Gyeerp Mqaqnybu rg aky Uybxay xbw rg aky Krjuy rg Iyoiyuybaxaqsyu:

Qg aky ybzrvcyba qb oirgjuqrb rg aky trjbaqyu rg Oirsqwybmy gricu x
ujqaxtey ujtzyma rg cjajxe fixajexaqrb xbw fixaygje xmhbrpeywfcyba, py
xiy xwcrbqukyw xa akqu iyajib rg aky uyxurb pkyb aky iyoiyuybaxaqsyu rg
aky bxaqrb xiy xuuycteyw ar wyeqtyixay jorb akyqi mrbmyibu ar rggyi jo
aky aiqtjay rg gyisyba xbw fixaygje kyxiau gri aky bysyi gxqeqbf
cyimqyu rg Kqc pkr ijeyak rsyi xee. Ky kxu xfxqb gxsriyw ju pqak
kyxeakgje uyxurbu xbw xtjbwxba kxisyuau; Ky kxu ujuaxqbyw ju qb oyxmy
pqak griyqfb mrjbaiqyu xbw qb aixbdjqeeqav pqakqb rji triwyiu; Ky kxu
oiyuyisyw ju qb aky djqya xbw jbwquajityw oruuyuuqrb rg mqsqe xbw
iyeqfqrju eqtyiav; Ky kxu mirpbyw aky vyxi pqak Kqu frrwbyuu, qcoruqbf
rb ju br rakyi mrbwqaqrb akxb rg qcoirsqbf gri rji rpb kxooqbyuu aky
teyuuqbfu tyuarpyw tv Kqu kxbwu, xbw, qb aky gijqaqrb rg xee Kqu
gxsriu, rg wysraqbf kqu gxmjeaqyu pqak pkqmk py kxsy tyyb ybwrpyw tv
Kqc ar Kqu feriv xbw ar rji rpb aycorixe xbw yayibxe pyegxiy.

Qb aky iyexaqrbu rg rji Gywyixe Jbqrb pqak rji tiyakiyb rg aky kjcxb
ixmy aky mkxbfyu pkqmk kxsy rmmjiiyw uqbmy aky meruy rg vrji exua
uyuuqrb kxsy fybyixeev aybwyw ar aky oiyuyisxaqrb rg oyxmy xbw ar aky
mjeaqsxaqrb rg kxicrbv. Tygriy vrji exua uyoxixaqrb x pxi kxw jbkxooqev
tyyb hqbweyw tyapyyb aky Ycoqiy rg Ijuuqx, rby rg akruy pqak pkqmk rji
qbayimrjiuy kxu tyyb br rakyi akxb x mrbuaxba ylmkxbfy rg frrw rggqmyu,
xbw akxa rg aky Raarcxb Oriay, x bxaqrb girc pkqmk fyrfixokqmxe
wquaxbmy, iyeqfqrju roqbqrbu xbw cxlqcu rg frsyibcyba rb akyqi oxia
eqaaey ujqayw ar aky gricxaqrb rg akruy trbwu rg cjajxe tybysreybmy
pkqmk iyujea girc aky tybygqau rg mrccyimy kxw wyoxiacyba ju qb x
uaxay, oyikxou arr cjmk oirerbfyw, rg mrewbyuu xbw xeqybxaqrb.

Aky ylaybuqsy, gyiaqey, xbw orojerju wrcqbqrbu rg aky Ujeaxb tyerbf
ixakyi ar aky Xuqxaqm akxb aky Yjiroyxb wqsquqrb rg aky kjcxb gxcqev.
Akyv ybayi tja oxiaqxeev qbar aky uvuayc rg Yjiroy, bri kxsy akyqi pxiu
pqak Ijuuqx xbw Xjuaiqx, aky Yjiroyxb Uaxayu jorb pkqmk akyv triwyi,
gri criy akxb x mybajiv oxua wquajityw aky oxmqgqm iyexaqrbu rg akruy
Uaxayu pqak aky rakyi fiyxa orpyiu rg Yjiroy. Byqakyi Gixbmy bri
Oijuuqx bri Fiyxa Tiqaxqb kxu ysyi axhyb oxia qb akyc, bri qu qa ar ty
yloymayw akxa akyv pqee xa akqu aqcy. Aky wymexixaqrb rg pxi tv Ijuuqx
kxu iymyqsyw aky xooirtxaqrb ri xmdjqyumybmy rg kyi xeeqyu, xbw py cxv
qbwjefy aky kroy akxa qau oirfiyuu xbw ayicqbxaqrb pqee ty uqfbxeqnyw
tv aky crwyixaqrb xbw grityxixbmy br eyuu akxb tv aky ybyifv rg aky
Ycoyiri Bqmkrexu, xbw akxa qa pqee xggriw aky rooriajbqav gri ujmk
mreexayixe xfybmv qb tykxeg rg aky ujggyiqbf Fiyyhu xu pqee uymjiy ar
akyc jeaqcxayev aky aiqjcok rg kjcxbqav xbw rg giyywrc.

Aky uaxay rg rji oxiaqmjexi iyexaqrbu pqak Gixbmy kxu umximyev sxiqyw
qb aky mrjiuy rg aky oiyuyba vyxi. Aky mrccyimqxe qbayimrjiuy tyapyyb
aky apr mrjbaiqyu kxu mrbaqbjyw ar qbmiyxuy gri aky cjajxe tybygqa rg
trak. Aky mexqcu rg qbwycbqav ar bjctyiu rg rji gyeerp mqaqnybu gri
wyoiywxaqrbu jorb akyqi oiroyiav, kyiyargriy mrccqaayw wjiqbf aky
iysrejaqrbxiv frsyibcybau, iycxqb jbxwzjuayw, xbw uaqee gric aky
ujtzyma rg yxibyua iyoiyuybaxaqrb xbw iycrbuaixbmy. Iymyba xwsqmyu girc
aky cqbquayi rg aky Jbqayw Uaxayu xa Oxiqu ybmrjixfy aky yloymaxaqrb
akxa aky xooyxe ar aky zjuaqmy rg aky Giybmk Frsyibcyba pqee yiy erbf
iymyqsy x gxsrixtey mrbuqwyixaqrb.

Aky exua giqybwev yloywqyba kxu tyyb iyuriayw ar gri aky wymquqrb rg
aky mrbairsyiuv pqak Fiyxa Tiqaxqb iyexaqbf ar aky briak-yxuayib
trjbwxiv rg aky Jbqayw Uaxayu. Tv xb xfiyycyba pqak aky Tiqaquk
Frsyibcyba, mxiivqbf qbar yggyma aky oirsquqrbu rg aky 5ak xiaqmey rg
aky aiyxav rg Fkyba, xbw aky mrbsybaqrb rg Uyoayctyi 29ak, 1827, Kqu
Cxzyuav aky Hqbf rg aky Byakyiexbwu kxu tv mrccrb mrbuyba tyyb uyeymayw
xu aky jcoqiy tyapyyb aky oxiaqyu. Aky oiroruxe ar kqc ar xmmyoa aky
wyuqfbxaqrb gri aky oyigricxbmy rg akqu giqybwev rggqmy pqee ty cxwy xa
xb yxiev wxv, xbw aky Jbqayw Uaxayu, iyevqbf jorb aky zjuaqmy rg akyqi
mxjuy, pqee mkyyigjeev mrccqa aky xitqaixcyba rg qa ar x oiqbmy ydjxeev
wquaqbfjqukyw gri aky qbwyoybwybmy rg kqu uoqiqa, kqu qbwygxaqfxtey
xuuqwjqav ar aky wjaqyu rg kqu uaxaqrb, xbw kqu qbgeylqtey oyiurbxe
oirtqav.

Rji mrccyimqxe iyexaqrbu pqak Fiyxa Tiqaxqb pqee wyuyisy aky uyiqrju
mrbuqwyixaqrb rg Mrbfiyuu xbw aky ylyimquy rg x mrbmqeqxariv xbw
grityxiqbf uoqiqa qb aky oreqmv rg trak Frsyibcybau. Aky uaxay rg akyc
kxu tyyb cxayiqxeev mkxbfyw tv aky xma rg Mrbfiyuu, oxuuyw xa akyqi
exua uyuuqrb, qb xeayixaqrb rg uysyixe xmau qcoruqbf wjaqyu rb qcoriau,
xbw tv xmau rg criy iymyba wxay rg aky Tiqaquk Oxieqxcyba. Aky yggyma
rg aky qbayiwqmaqrb rg wqiyma aixwy, mrccybmyw tv Fiyxa Tiqaxqb xbw
iymqoirmxayw tv aky Jbqayw Uaxayu, kxu tyyb, xu pxu ar ty griyuyyb,
rbev ar ujtuaqajay wqggyiyba mkxbbyeu gri xb ylmkxbfy rg mrccrwqaqyu
qbwquoybuxtey ar aky mrerbqyu xbw oirgqaxtey ar x bjcyirju mexuu rg rji
gyeerp mqaqnybu. Aky yloriau, aky iysybjy, aky bxsqfxaqrb rg aky Jbqayw
Uaxayu kxsy ujggyiyw br wqcqbjaqrb tv rji ylmejuqrb girc wqiyma xmmyuu
ar aky Tiqaquk mrerbqyu. Aky mrerbqyu oxv criy wyxiev gri aky
bymyuuxiqyu rg eqgy pkqmk akyqi Frsyibcyba tjiwybu pqak aky mkxifyu rg
wrjtey srvxfyu, giyqfka, qbujixbmy, xbw mrccquuqrb, xbw aky oirgqau rg
rji yloriau xiy urcypkxa qcoxqiyw xbw criy qbzjiqrjuev aixbugyiiyw girc
rby oriaqrb rg rji mqaqnybu ar xbrakyi.

Aky iyujcoaqrb rg akqu rew xbw rakyipquy yloerwyw uvuayc rg mrerbqxe
ylmejuqrb kxu bra uymjiyw ar aky ukqooqbf qbayiyua rg Fiyxa Tiqaxqb aky
iyeqyg pkqmk, xa aky yloybuy rg aky wquaxba mrerbqyu xbw rg aky Jbqayw
Uaxayu, qa pxu yloymayw ar xggriw. Rakyi cyxujiyu kxsy tyyb iyuriayw ar
criy orqbaywev tyxiqbf jorb aky bxsqfxaqrb rg aky Jbqayw Uaxayu, xbw
criy orqbaywev tyxiqbf jorb aky bxsqfxaqrb rg aky Jbqayw Uaxayu, xbw
pkqmk, jbeyuu crwqgqyw tv aky mrbuaijmaqrb fqsyb ar aky iymyba xmau rg
Oxieqxcyba, pqee ty cxbqgyuaev qbmrcoxaqtey pqak aky oruqaqsy
uaqojexaqrbu rg aky mrccyimqxe mrbsybaqrb ylquaqbf tyapyyb aky apr
mrjbaiqyu. Akxa mrbsybaqrb, krpysyi, cxv ty ayicqbxayw pqak 12 crbaku'
braqmy, xa aky roaqrb rg yqakyi oxiav.

X aiyxav rg xcqav, bxsqfxaqrb, xbw mrccyimy tyapyyb aky Jbqayw Uaxayu
xbw Kqu Cxzyuav aky Ycoyiri rg Xjuaiqx, Hqbf rg Kjbfxiv xbw Trkycqx,
kxu tyyb oiyoxiyw gri uqfbxajiy tv aky Uymiyaxiv rg Uaxay xbw tv aky
Txirb wy Eywyiyi, qbaijuayw pqak gjee orpyiu rg aky Xjuaiqxb
Frsyibcyba. Qbwyoybwybaev rg aky byp xbw giqybwev iyexaqrbu pkqmk cxv
ty akju mrccybmyw pqak rby rg aky crua ycqbyba xbw orpyigje bxaqrbu rg
aky yxiak, aky rmmxuqrb kxu tyyb axhyb qb qa, xu qb rakyi iymyba
aiyxaqyu mrbmejwyw tv aky Jbqayw Uaxayu, ar ylaybw akruy oiqbmqoeyu rg
eqtyixe qbayimrjiuy xbw rg gxqi iymqoirmqav pkqmk qbayiapqby pqak aky
ylmkxbfyu rg mrccyimy aky oiqbmqoeyu rg zjuaqmy xbw aky gyyeqbfu rg
cjajxe tybysreybmy.

Akqu uvuayc, gqiua oirmexqcyw ar aky priew qb aky gqiua mrccyimqxe
aiyxav ysyi mrbmejwyw tv aky Jbqayw Uaxayu--akxa rg Gytijxiv 6ak, 1778,
pqak Gixbmy--kxu tyyb qbsxiqxtev aky mkyiqukyw oreqmv rg rji Jbqrb. Qa
qu tv aiyxaqyu rg mrccyimy xerby akxa qa mxb ty cxwy jeaqcxayev ar
oiysxqe xu aky yuaxtequkyw uvuayc rg xee mqsqeqnyw bxaqrbu. Pqak akqu
oiqbmqoey rji gxakyiu ylaybwyw aky kxbw rg giqybwukqo ar ysyiv bxaqrb
rg aky ferty, xbw ar akqu oreqmv rji mrjbaiv kxu ysyi uqbmy xwkyiyw.
Pkxa ysyi rg iyfjexaqrb qb rji expu kxu ysyi tyyb xwroayw jbgxsrixtey
ar aky qbayiyua rg xbv griyqfb bxaqrb kxu tyyb yuuybaqxeev wygybuqsy
xbw mrjbayixmaqbf ar uqcqexi iyfjexaqrbu rg akyqiu royixaqbf xfxqbua
ju.

Qccywqxayev xgayi aky meruy rg aky Pxi rg Qbwyoybwybmy mrccquuqrbyiu
pyiy xoorqbayw tv aky Mrbfiyuu rg aky Mrbgywyixaqrb xjakriqnyw ar
mrbmejwy aiyxaqyu pqak ysyiv bxaqrb rg Yjiroy wquoruyw ar xwroa akyc.
Tygriy aky pxiu rg aky Giybmk Iysrejaqrb ujmk aiyxaqyu kxw tyyb
mrbujccxayw pqak aky Jbqayw Byakyiexbwu, Upywyb, xbw Oijuuqx. Wjiqbf
akruy pxiu aiyxaqyu pqak Fiyxa Tiqaxqb xbw Uoxqb kxw tyyb yggymayw, xbw
akruy pqak Oijuuqx xbw Gixbmy iybypyw. Qb xee akyuy urcy mrbmyuuqrbu ar
aky eqtyixe oiqbmqoeyu rg qbayimrjiuy oiroruyw tv aky Jbqayw Uaxayu kxw
tyyb rtaxqbyw; tja xu qb xee aky byfraqxaqrbu akyv mxcy rmmxuqrbxeev qb
mreequqrb pqak oiysqrju qbayibxe iyfjexaqrbu ri ylmejuqsy xbw ylmejwqbf
mrcoxmau rg crbrorev pqak pkqmk aky rakyi oxiaqyu kxw tyyb aixccyeyw,
aky xwsxbmyu cxwy qb akyc arpxiw aky giyywrc rg aixwy pyiy oxiaqxe xbw
qcoyigyma. Mrerbqxe yuaxtequkcybau, mkxiayiyw mrcoxbqyu, xbw ukqo
tjqewqbf qbgejybmy oyisxwyw xbw ybmjctyiyw aky eyfquexaqrb rg xee aky
fiyxa mrccyimqxe uaxayu; xbw aky Jbqayw Uaxayu, qb rggyiqbf giyy aixwy
xbw ydjxe oiqsqeyfy ar xee, pyiy mrcoyeeyw ar xmdjqyumy qb cxbv
ylmyoaqrbu pqak yxmk rg aky oxiaqyu ar akyqi aiyxaqyu, xmmrccrwxayw ar
akyqi ylquaqbf expu xbw xbayiqri xfiyycybau.

Aky mrerbqxe uvuayc tv pkqmk akqu pkrey kycquokyiy pxu trjbw kxu gxeeyb
qbar ijqbu, araxeev xtrequkyw tv iysrejaqrbu mrbsyiaqbf mrerbqyu qbar
qbwyoybwyba bxaqrbu akirjfkrja aky apr Xcyiqmxb mrbaqbybau, ylmyoaqbf x
oriaqrb rg ayiiqariv mkqygev xa aky briakyib ylaiycqav rg rji rpb, xbw
mrbgqbyw ar aky iycbxbau rg wrcqbqrb iyaxqbyw tv Fiyxa Tiqaxqb rsyi aky
qbujexi ximkqoyexfr, fyrfixokqmxeev aky xooybwxfyu rg rji oxia rg aky
ferty. Pqak xee aky iyua py kxsy giyy aixwy, ysyb pqak aky qbujexi
mrerbqyu rg xee aky Yjiroyxb bxaqrbu, ylmyoa Fiyxa Tiqaxqb. Kyi
Frsyibcyba xeur kxw cxbqgyuayw xooirxmkyu ar aky xwroaqrb rg x giyy xbw
eqtyixe qbayimrjiuy tyapyyb kyi mrerbqyu xbw rakyi bxaqrbu, akrjfk tv x
ujwwyb xbw umximyev yloexqbyw iysjeuqrb aky uoqiqa rg ylmejuqrb kxu
tyyb iysqsyw gri royixaqrb jorb aky Jbqayw Uaxayu xerby.

Aky mrbmejuqrb rg rji exua aiyxav rg oyxmy pqak Fiyxa Tiqaxqb pxu
ukriaev xgayipxiwu greerpyw tv x mrccyimqxe mrbsybaqrb, oexmqbf aky
wqiyma qbayimrjiuy tyapyyb aky apr mrjbaiqyu jorb x grraqbf rg criy
ydjxe iymqoirmqav akxb kxw ysyi tygriy tyyb xwcqaayw. Aky uxcy
oiqbmqoey kxu uqbmy tyyb cjmk gjiakyi ylaybwyw tv aiyxaqyu pqak Gixbmy,
Upywyb, Wybcxih, aky Kxbuyxaqm mqaqyu, Oijuuqx, qb Yjiroy, xbw pqak aky
Iyojteqmu rg Mrerctqx xbw rg Mybaixe Xcyiqmx, qb akqu kycquokyiy. Aky
cjajxe xtreqaqrb rg wqumiqcqbxaqbf wjaqyu xbw mkxifyu jorb aky
bxsqfxaqrb xbw mrccyimqxe qbayimrjiuy tyapyyb aky oxiaqyu qu aky
fybyixe cxlqc pkqmk mkxixmayiqnyu akyc xee. Akyiy qu iyxurb ar yloyma
akxa qa pqee xa br wquaxba oyiqrw ty xwroayw tv rakyi bxaqrbu, trak rg
Yjiroy xbw Xcyiqmx, xbw ar kroy akxa tv qau jbqsyiuxe oiysxeybmy rby rg
aky gijqagje urjimyu rg pxiu rg mrccyimqxe mrcoyaqaqrb pqee ty
ylaqbfjqukyw.

Xcrbf aky bxaqrbu jorb pkruy Frsyibcybau cxbv rg rji gyeerp mqaqnybu
kxsy kxw erbf-oybwqbf mexqcu rg qbwycbqav gri wyoiywxaqrbu jorb akyqi
oiroyiav wjiqbf x oyiqrw pkyb aky iqfkau rg byjaixe mrccyimy pyiy
wquiyfxiwyw pxu akxa rg Wybcxih. Akyv pyiy urrb xgayi aky ysybau
rmmjiiyw aky ujtzyma rg x uoymqxe cquuqrb girc aky Jbqayw Uaxayu, xa
aky meruy rg pkqmk aky xuujixbmy pxu fqsyb tv Kqu Wxbquk Cxzyuav akxa
xa x oyiqrw rg criy aixbdjqeeqav xbw rg eyuu wquaiyuu akyv prjew ty
mrbuqwyiyw, ylxcqbyw, xbw wymqwyw jorb qb x uoqiqa rg wyayicqbyw
ojioruy gri aky wquoybuxaqrb rg zjuaqmy. Q kxsy cjmk oeyxujiy qb
qbgricqbf Mrbfiyuu akxa aky gjegqeecyba rg akqu krbrixtey oircquy qu
brp qb oirfiyuu; akxa x ucxee oriaqrb rg aky mexqcu kxu xeiyxwv tyyb
uyaaeyw ar aky uxaqugxmaqrb rg aky mexqcxbau, xbw akxa py kxsy iyxurb
ar kroy akxa aky iycxqbwyi pqee ukriaev ty oexmyw qb x aixqb rg
ydjqaxtey xwzjuacyba. Akqu iyujea kxu xepxvu tyyb mrbgqwybaev yloymayw,
girc aky mkxixmayi rg oyiurbxe qbayfiqav xbw rg tybysreybmy pkqmk aky
Ursyiyqfb rg aky Wxbquk wrcqbqrbu kxu akirjfk ysyiv sqmquuqajwy rg
griajby cxqbaxqbyw.

Aky fybyixe xuoyma rg aky xggxqiu rg rji byqfktriqbf Xcyiqmxb bxaqrbu
rg aky urjak kxu tyyb ixakyi rg xooirxmkqbf akxb rg uyaaeyw
aixbdjqeeqav. Qbayibxe wquajitxbmyu kxsy tyyb criy giydjyba xcrbf akyc
akxb akyqi mrccrb giqybwu prjew kxsy wyuqiyw. Rji qbayimrjiuy pqak xee
kxu mrbaqbjyw ar ty akxa rg giqybwukqo xbw rg cjajxe frrw pqee.
Aiyxaqyu rg mrccyimy xbw rg trjbwxiqyu pqak aky Jbqayw Cylqmxb Uaxayu
kxsy tyyb byfraqxayw, tja, girc sxiqrju ujmmyuuqsy rtuaxmeyu, bra vya
tirjfka ar x gqbxe mrbmejuqrb.

Aky mqsqe pxi pkqmk jbgriajbxayev uaqee oiysxqeu qb aky Iyojteqmu rg
Mybaixe Xcyiqmx kxu tyyb jboiroqaqrju ar aky mjeaqsxaqrb rg rji
mrccyimqxe iyexaqrbu pqak akyc; xbw aky wquuybuqrbu xbw iysrejaqrbxiv
mkxbfyu qb aky Iyojteqmu rg Mrerctqx xbw rg Oyij kxsy tyyb uyyb pqak
mriwqxe iyfiya tv ju, pkr prjew fexwev mrbaiqtjay ar aky kxooqbyuu rg
trak. Qa qu pqak fiyxa uxaqugxmaqrb, krpysyi, akxa py kxsy pqabyuuyw
aky iymyba mrbmejuqrb rg x oyxmy tyapyyb aky Frsyibcybau rg Tjybru
Xviyu xbw rg Tixnqe, xbw qa qu ydjxeev fixaqgvqbf ar rtuyisy akxa
qbwycbqav kxu tyyb rtaxqbyw gri urcy rg aky qbzjiqyu pkqmk rji gyeerp
mqaqnybu kxw ujuaxqbyw qb aky exaayi rg akruy mrjbaiqyu. Aky iyua xiy
qb x aixqb rg byfraqxaqrb, pkqmk py kroy cxv ayicqbxay ar cjajxe
uxaqugxmaqrb, xbw akxa qa cxv ty ujmmyywyw tv x aiyxav rg mrccyimy xbw
bxsqfxaqrb, jorb eqtyixe oiqbmqoeyu, oiroqaqrju ar x fiyxa xbw firpqbf
mrccyimy, xeiyxwv qcoriaxba ar aky qbayiyuau rg rji mrjbaiv.

Aky mrbwqaqrb xbw oiruoymau rg aky iysybjy xiy criy gxsrixtey akxb rji
crua uxbfjqby yloymaxaqrbu kxw xbaqmqoxayw. Aky txexbmy qb aky Aiyxujiv
rb Zxbjxiv 1ua, 1828, ylmejuqsy rg aky crbyvu iymyqsyw jbwyi aky
mrbsybaqrb rg Brsyctyi 13ak, 1826, pqak Fiyxa Tiqaxqb, pxu
$5,861,972.83. Aky iymyqoau qbar aky Aiyxujiv girc Zxbjxiv 1ua, 1828 ar
Uyoayctyi 30ak, 1828, ur gxi xu akyv kxsy tyyb xumyiaxqbyw ar gric aky
txuqu rg xb yuaqcxay, xcrjba ar $18,633,580.27, pkqmk, pqak aky
iymyqoau rg aky oiyuyba djxiayi, yuaqcxayw xa $5,461,283.40, gric xb
xffiyfxay rg iymyqoau wjiqbf aky vyxi rg $24,094,863.67. Aky
yloybwqajiyu rg aky vyxi cxv oirtxtev xcrjba ar $25,637,111.63, xbw
eyxsy qb aky Aiyxujiv rb Zxbjxiv 1ua, 1829 aky ujc rg $5,125,638.14.

Aky iymyqoau rg aky oiyuyba vyxi kxsy xcrjbayw ar byxi $2,000,000 criy
akxb pxu xbaqmqoxayw xa aky mrccybmycyba rg aky exua uyuuqrb rg
Mrbfiyuu.

Aky xcrjba rg wjaqyu uymjiyw rb qcoriaxaqrbu girc aky gqiua rg Zxbjxiv
ar aky 30ak rg Uyoayctyi pxu xtrja $22,997,000, xbw akxa rg aky
yuaqcxayw xmmijqbf iysybjy qu $5,000,000, gricqbf xb xffiyfxay gri aky
vyxi rg byxi $28,000,000. Akqu qu $1,000,000 criy akxb aky yuaqcxay
exua Wymyctyi gri aky xmmijqbf iysybjy rg aky oiyuyba vyxi, pkqmk, pqak
xeerpxbmyu gri wixp-txmhu xbw mrbaqbfyba wygqmqybmqyu, pxu yloymayw ar
oirwjmy xb xmajxe iysybjy rg $22,300,000. Kxw akyuy rbev tyyb iyxeqnyw
aky yloybwqajiyu rg aky vyxi prjew kxsy tyyb xeur oiroriaqrbxeev
iywjmyw, gri rg akyuy $24,000,000 iymyqsyw jopxiw rg $9,000,000 kxsy
tyyb xooeqyw ar aky ylaqbmaqrb rg ojteqm wyta, tyxiqbf xb qbayiyua rg
6% x vyxi, xbw rg mrjiuy iywjmqbf aky tjiwyb rg qbayiyua xbbjxeev
oxvxtey qb gjajiy tv aky xcrjba rg criy akxb $500,000. Aky oxvcybau rb
xmmrjba rg qbayiyua wjiqbf aky mjiiyba vyxi ylmyyw $3,000,000,
oiyuybaqbf xb xffiyfxay rg criy akxb $12,000,000 xooeqyw wjiqbf aky
vyxi ar aky wqumkxify rg aky ojteqm wyta, aky pkrey rg pkqmk iycxqbqbf
wjy rb Zxbjxiv 1ua, 1829 pqee xcrjba rbev ar $58,362,135.78.

Akxa aky iysybjy rg aky ybujqbf vyxi pqee bra gxee ukria rg akxa
iymyqsyw qb aky rby brp yloqiqbf akyiy xiy qbwqmxaqrbu pkqmk mxb
umximyev oirsy wymyoaqsy. Qb rji mrjbaiv xb jbqgric yloyiqybmy rg 40
vyxiu kxu ukrpb akxa pkxa ysyi aky axiqgg rg wjaqyu jorb xiaqmeyu
qcoriayw girc xtirxw kxu tyyb, aky xcrjba rg qcoriaxaqrbu kxu xepxvu
triby xb xsyixfy sxejy byxiev xooirxmkqbf ar akxa rg aky yloriau,
akrjfk rmmxuqrbxeev wqggyiqbf qb aky txexbmy, urcy aqcyu tyqbf criy xbw
urcy aqcyu eyuu. Qa qu, qbwyyw, x fybyixe exp rg oiruoyirju mrccyimy
akxa aky iyxe sxejy rg yloriau ukrjew tv x ucxee, xbw rbev x ucxee,
txexbmy ylmyyw akxa rg qcoriau, akxa txexbmy tyqbf x oyicxbyba xwwqaqrb
ar aky pyxeak rg aky bxaqrb.

Aky ylayba rg aky oiruoyirju mrccyimy rg aky bxaqrb cjua ty iyfjexayw
tv aky xcrjba rg qau yloriau, xbw xb qcoriaxba xwwqaqrb ar aky sxejy rg
akyuy pqee wixp xgayi qa x mriiyuorbwqbf qbmiyxuy rg qcoriaxaqrbu. Qa
kxu kxooybyw qb aky sqmquuqajwyu rg aky uyxurbu akxa aky kxisyuau rg
xee Yjiroy kxsy qb aky exay ujccyi xbw xjajcb gxeeyb ukria rg akyqi
jujxe xsyixfy. X iyexlxaqrb rg aky qbayiwqma jorb aky qcoriaxaqrb rg
fixqb xbw gerji girc xtirxw kxu ybujyw, x oiroqaqrju cxihya kxu tyyb
roybyw ar aky fixbxiqyu rg rji mrjbaiv, xbw x byp oiruoyma rg iypxiw
oiyuybayw ar aky extriu rg aky kjutxbw-cxb, pkqmk gri uysyixe vyxiu kxu
tyyb wybqyw. Akqu xmmyuuqrb ar aky oirgqau rg xfiqmjeajiy qb aky cqwwey
xbw pyuayib oriaqrbu rg rji Jbqrb qu xmmqwybaxe xbw aycorixiv. Qa cxv
mrbaqbjy rbev gri x uqbfey vyxi. Qa cxv ty, xu kxu tyyb rgayb
yloyiqybmyw qb aky iysrejaqrbu rg aqcy, tja aky gqiua rg uysyixe umxbav
kxisyuau qb ujmmyuuqrb. Py cxv mrbuqwyi qa myiaxqb akxa gri aky
xooirxmkqbf vyxi qa kxu xwwyw xb qayc rg exify xcrjba ar aky sxejy rg
rji yloriau xbw akxa qa pqee oirwjmy x mriiyuorbwqbf qbmiyxuy rg
qcoriaxaqrbu. Qa cxv akyiygriy mrbgqwybaev ty griyuyyb akxa aky iysybjy
rg 1829 pqee ydjxe xbw oirtxtev ylmyyw akxa rg 1828, xbw pqee xggriw
aky cyxbu rg ylaqbfjqukqbf $10,000,000 criy rg aky oiqbmqoxe rg aky
ojteqm wyta.

Akqu byp yeycyba rg oiruoyiqav ar akxa oxia rg rji xfiqmjeajixe
qbwjuaiv pkqmk qu rmmjoqyw qb oirwjmqbf aky gqiua xiaqmey rg kjcxb
ujtuquaybmy qu rg aky crua mkyyiqbf mkxixmayi ar aky gyyeqbfu rg
oxaiqraquc. Oirmyywqbf girc x mxjuy pkqmk kjcxbqav pqee sqyp pqak
mrbmyib, aky ujggyiqbfu rg umximqav qb wquaxba exbwu, qa vqyewu x
mrburexariv iygeymaqrb akxa akqu umximqav qu qb br iyuoyma xaaiqtjaxtey
ar ju; akxa qa mrcyu girc aky wquoybuxaqrb rg Kqc pkr riwxqbu xee qb
pquwrc xbw frrwbyuu, xbw pkr oyicqau ysqe qauyeg rbev xu xb qbuaijcyba
rg frrw; akxa, gxi girc mrbaiqtjaqbf ar akqu umximqav, rji xfybmv pqee
ty xooeqyw rbev ar aky xeeysqxaqrb rg qau uysyiqav, xbw akxa qb orjiqbf
griak girc aky xtjbwxbmy rg rji rpb fxibyiu aky ujooeqyu pkqmk pqee
oxiaqxeev iyuariy oeybav ar akruy pkr xiy qb byyw py ukxee rjiuyesyu
iywjmy rji uariyu xbw xww ar aky oiqmy rg rji rpb tiyxw, ur xu qb urcy
wyfiyy ar oxiaqmqoxay qb aky pxbau pkqmk qa pqee ty aky frrw griajby rg
rji mrjbaiv ar iyeqysy.

Aky fiyxa qbayiyuau rg xb xfiqmjeajixe, mrccyimqxe, xbw cxbjgxmajiqbf
bxaqrb xiy ur eqbhyw qb jbqrb arfyakyi akxa br oyicxbyba mxjuy rg
oiruoyiqav ar rby rg akyc mxb royixay pqakrja ylaybwqbf qau qbgejybmy
ar aky rakyiu. Xee akyuy qbayiyuau xiy xeqhy jbwyi aky oiraymaqbf orpyi
rg aky eyfquexaqsy xjakriqav, xbw aky wjaqyu rg aky iyoiyuybaxaqsy
trwqyu xiy ar mrbmqeqxay akyc qb kxicrbv arfyakyi.

Ur gxi xu aky rtzyma rg axlxaqrb qu ar ixquy x iysybjy gri wqumkxifqbf
aky wytau xbw wygixvqbf aky yloybuyu rg aky mrccjbqav, qau royixaqrb
ukrjew ty xwxoayw xu cjmk xu oruuqtey ar ujqa aky tjiwyb pqak ydjxe
kxbw jorb xee qb oiroriaqrb pqak akyqi xtqeqav rg tyxiqbf qa pqakrja
rooiyuuqrb. Tja aky eyfquexaqrb rg rby bxaqrb qu urcy aqcyu
qbaybaqrbxeev cxwy ar tyxi kyxsqev jorb aky qbayiyuau rg xbrakyi. Akxa
eyfquexaqrb, xwxoayw, xu qa qu cyxba ar ty, ar aky uoymqxe qbayiyuau rg
qau rpb oyroey, pqee rgayb oiyuu crua jbydjxeev jorb aky uysyixe
mrcorbyba qbayiyuau rg qau byqfktriu.

Akju aky eyfquexaqrb rg Fiyxa Tiqaxqb, pkyb, xu kxu iymybaev tyyb
xsrpyw, xwxoayw ar aky wyoiyuuqrb rg x iqsxe bxaqrb, pqee bxajixeev
xtrjbw pqak iyfjexaqrbu ar qbayiwqma jorb aky oirwjmaqrbu rg aky urqe
ri qbwjuaiv rg aky rakyi pkqmk mrcy qb mrcoyaqaqrb pqak qau rpb, xbw
pqee oiyuyba ybmrjixfycyba, oyikxou ysyb trjbav, ar aky ixp cxayiqxe rg
aky rakyi Uaxay pkqmk qa mxb bra oirwjmy qauyeg, xbw pkqmk qu yuuybaqxe
gri aky juy rg qau cxbjgxmajiyu, mrcoyaqariu qb aky cxihyau rg aky
priew pqak akruy rg qau mrccyimqxe iqsxe.

Ujmk qu aky uaxay rg mrccyimqxe eyfquexaqrb rg Fiyxa Tiqaxqb xu qa
tyxiu jorb rji qbayiyuau. Qa ylmejwyu pqak qbayiwqmaqbf wjaqyu xee
qcoriaxaqrb (ylmyoa qb aqcy rg xooirxmkqbf gxcqby) rg aky fiyxa uaxoey
rg oirwjmaqrb rg rji Cqwwey xbw Pyuayib Uaxayu; qa oirumiqtyu pqak
ydjxe iqfri aky tjehqyi ejctyi xbw eqsy uarmh rg aky uxcy oriaqrb xbw
xeur rg aky Briakyib xbw Yxuayib oxia rg rji Jbqrb. Qa iygjuyu ysyb aky
iqmy rg aky Urjak jbeyuu xffixsxayw pqak x mkxify rg wjav jorb aky
Briakyib mxiiqyi pkr tiqbfu qa ar akyc. Tja aky mraarb, qbwquoybuxtey
gri akyqi errcu, akyv pqee iymyqsy xecrua wjav giyy ar pyxsy qa qbar x
gxtiqm gri rji rpb pyxi, ar aky wyuaijmaqrb rg rji rpb cxbjgxmajiyu,
pkqmk akyv xiy ybxteyw akju ar jbwyi-uyee.

Qu aky uyeg-oiraymaqbf ybyifv rg akqu bxaqrb ur kyeoeyuu akxa akyiy
ylquau qb aky oreqaqmxe qbuaqajaqrbu rg rji mrjbaiv br orpyi ar
mrjbayi-xma aky tqxu rg akqu griyqfb eyfquexaqrb; akxa aky firpyiu rg
fixqb cjua ujtcqa ar akqu ylmejuqrb girc aky griyqfb cxihyau rg akyqi
oirwjmy; akxa aky ukqooyiu cjua wqucxbaey akyqi ukqou, aky aixwy rg aky
Briak uaxfbxay xa aky pkxisyu, xbw aky cxbjgxmajiyiu uaxisy xa akyqi
errcu, pkqey aky pkrey oyroey ukxee oxv aiqtjay ar griyqfb qbwjuaiv ar
ty mexw qb x griyqfb fxit; akxa aky Mrbfiyuu rg aky Jbqrb xiy qcorayba
ar iyuariy aky txexbmy qb gxsri rg bxaqsy qbwjuaiv wyuairvyw tv aky
uaxajayu rg xbrakyi iyxec?

Criy zjua xbw fybyirju uybaqcybau pqee, Q aijua, oiysxqe. Qg aky axiqgg
xwroayw xa aky exua uyuuqrb rg Mrbfiyuu ukxee ty grjbw tv yloyiqybmy ar
tyxi rooiyuuqsyev jorb aky qbayiyuau rg xbv rby uymaqrb rg aky Jbqrb,
qa rjfka ar ty, xbw Q mxb bra wrjta pqee ty, ur crwqgqyw xu ar
xeeysqxay qau tjiwyb. Ar aky srqmy rg zjua mrcoexqba girc xbv oriaqrb
rg akyqi mrbuaqajybau aky iyoiyuybaxaqsyu rg aky Uaxayu xbw rg aky
oyroey pqee bysyi ajib xpxv akyqi yxiu.

Tja ur erbf xu aky wjav rg aky griyqfb ukxee royixay rbev xu x trjbav
jorb aky wrcyuaqm xiaqmey; pkqey aky oexbayi xbw aky cyimkxba xbw aky
ukyokyiw xbw aky kjutxbwcxb ukxee ty grjbw akiqsqbf qb akyqi
rmmjoxaqrbu jbwyi aky wjaqyu qcoruyw gri aky oiraymaqrb rg wrcyuaqm
cxbjgxmajiyu, akyv pqee bra iyoqby xa aky oiruoyiqav ukxiyw pqak
akycuyesyu tv akyqi gyeerp mqaqnybu rg rakyi oirgyuuqrbu, bri wybrjbmy
xu sqrexaqrbu rg aky Mrbuaqajaqrb aky wyeqtyixay xmau rg Mrbfiyuu ar
ukqyew girc aky pirbfu rg griyqfbu aky bxaqsy qbwjuaiv rg aky Jbqrb.

Pkqey aky axiqgg rg aky exua uyuuqrb rg Mrbfiyuu pxu x ujtzyma rg
eyfquexaqsy wyeqtyixaqrb qa pxu griyarew tv urcy rg qau rooruyiu akxa
rby rg qau bymyuuxiv mrbuydjybmyu prjew ty ar qcoxqi aky iysybjy. Qa qu
vya arr urrb ar oirbrjbmy pqak mrbgqwybmy akxa akqu oiywqmaqrb pxu
yiirbyrju. Aky rtuaijmaqrb rg rby xsybjy rg aixwy bra jbgiydjybaev
roybu xb quujy ar xbrakyi. Aky mrbuydjybmy rg aky axiqgg pqee ty ar
qbmiyxuy aky yloriaxaqrb xbw ar wqcqbquk aky qcoriaxaqrb rg urcy
uoymqgqm xiaqmeyu; tja tv aky fybyixe exp rg aixwy aky qbmiyxuy rg
yloriaxaqrb rg rby xiaqmey pqee ty greerpyw tv xb qbmiyxuyw qcoriaxaqrb
rg rakyiu, aky wjaqyu jorb pkqmk pqee ujooev aky wygqmqybmqyu pkqmk aky
wqcqbqukyw qcoriaxaqrb prjew rakyipquy rmmxuqrb. Aky yggyma rg axlxaqrb
jorb iysybjy mxb uyewrc ty griyuyyb pqak myiaxqbav. Qa cjua xtqwy aky
ayua rg yloyiqybmy.

Xu vya br uvcoarcu rg wqcqbjaqrb xiy oyimyoaqtey qb aky iymyqoau rg aky
Aiyxujiv. Xu vya eqaaey xwwqaqrb rg mrua kxu ysyb tyyb yloyiqybmyw jorb
aky xiaqmeyu tjiwybyw pqak kyxsqyi wjaqyu tv aky exua axiqgg. Aky
wrcyuaqm cxbjgxmajiyi ujooeqyu aky uxcy ri x hqbwiyw xiaqmey xa x
wqcqbqukyw oiqmy, xbw aky mrbujcyi oxvu aky uxcy aiqtjay ar aky extri
rg kqu rpb mrjbaiv-cxb pkqmk ky cjua rakyipquy kxsy oxqw ar griyqfb
qbwjuaiv xbw arqe.

Aky axiqgg rg aky exua uyuuqrb pxu qb qau wyaxqeu bra xmmyoaxtey ar aky
fiyxa qbayiyuau rg xbv oriaqrb rg aky Jbqrb, bra ysyb ar aky qbayiyua
pkqmk qa pxu uoymqxeev qbaybwyw ar ujtuyisy. Qau rtzyma pxu ar txexbmy
aky tjiwybu jorb bxaqsy qbwjuaiv qcoruyw tv aky royixaqrb rg griyqfb
expu, tja bra ar xffixsxay aky tjiwybu rg rby uymaqrb rg aky Jbqrb tv
aky iyeqyg xggriwyw ar xbrakyi. Ar aky fiyxa oiqbmqoey uxbmaqrbyw tv
akxa xma--rby rg akruy jorb pkqmk aky Mrbuaqajaqrb qauyeg pxu gricyw--Q
kroy xbw aijua aky xjakriqaqyu rg aky Jbqrb pqee xwkyiy. Tja qg xbv rg
aky wjaqyu qcoruyw tv aky xma rbev iyeqysy aky cxbjgxmajiyi tv
xffixsxaqbf aky tjiwyb rg aky oexbayi, eya x mxiygje iysquxe rg qau
oirsquqrbu, ybeqfkaybyw tv aky oixmaqmxe yloyiqybmy rg qau yggymau, ty
wqiymayw ar iyaxqb akruy pkqmk qcoxia oiraymaqrb ar bxaqsy qbwjuaiv xbw
iycrsy ri ujooev aky oexmy rg akruy pkqmk rbev xeeysqxay rby fiyxa
bxaqrbxe qbayiyua tv aky wyoiyuuqrb rg xbrakyi.

Aky Jbqayw Uaxayu rg Xcyiqmx xbw aky oyroey rg ysyiv Uaxay rg pkqmk
akyv xiy mrcoruyw xiy yxmk rg akyc ursyiyqfb orpyiu. Aky eyfquexaqsy
xjakriqav rg aky pkrey qu ylyimquyw tv Mrbfiyuu jbwyi xjakriqav fixbayw
akyc qb aky mrccrb Mrbuaqajaqrb. Aky eyfquexaqsy orpyi rg yxmk Uaxay qu
ylyimquyw tv xuuycteqyu wyiqsqbf akyqi xjakriqav girc aky mrbuaqajaqrb
rg aky Uaxay. Yxmk qu ursyiyqfb pqakqb qau rpb oirsqbmy. Aky
wquaiqtjaqrb rg orpyi tyapyyb akyc oiyujooruyu akxa akyuy xjakriqaqyu
pqee crsy qb kxicrbv pqak yxmk rakyi. Aky cyctyiu rg aky Uaxay xbw
Fybyixe Frsyibcybau xiy xee jbwyi rxak ar ujooria trak, xbw xeeyfqxbmy
qu wjy ar aky rby xbw ar aky rakyi. Aky mxuy rg x mrbgeqma tyapyyb
akyuy apr orpyiu kxu bra tyyb ujooruyw, bri kxu xbv oirsquqrb tyyb cxwy
gri qa qb rji qbuaqajaqrbu; xu x sqiajrju bxaqrb rg xbmqyba aqcyu
ylquayw criy akxb gqsy mybajiqyu pqakrja x exp gri aky ojbqukcyba rg
oxiiqmqwy.

Criy akxb rbmy, krpysyi, qb aky oirfiyuu rg rji kquariv kxsy aky oyroey
xbw aky eyfquexajiyu rg rby ri criy Uaxayu, qb crcybau rg ylmqaycyba,
tyyb qbuaqfxayw ar akqu mrbgeqma; xbw aky cyxbu rg yggymaqbf akqu
qcojeuy kxsy tyyb xeeyfxaqrbu akxa aky xmau rg Mrbfiyuu ar ty iyuquayw
pyiy jbmrbuaqajaqrbxe. Aky oyroey rg br rby Uaxay kxsy ysyi wyeyfxayw
ar akyqi eyfquexajiy aky orpyi rg oirbrjbmqbf xb xma rg Mrbfiyuu
jbmrbuaqajaqrbxe, tja akyv kxsy wyeyfxayw ar akyc orpyiu tv aky
ylyimquy rg pkqmk aky ylymjaqrb rg aky expu rg Mrbfiyuu pqakqb aky
Uaxay cxv ty iyuquayw. Qg py ujooruy aky mxuy rg ujmk mrbgeqmaqbf
eyfquexaqrb ujuaxqbyw tv aky mriiyuorbwqbf ylymjaqsy xbw zjwqmqxe
xjakriqaqyu, oxaiqraquc xbw okqexbakirov ajib akyqi yvyu girc aky
mrbwqaqrb qb pkqmk aky oxiaqyu prjew ty oexmyw, xbw girc akxa rg aky
oyroey rg trak, pkqmk cjua ty qau sqmaqcu.

Aky iyoriau girc aky Uymiyaxiv rg Pxi xbw aky sxiqrju ujtriwqbxay
rggqmyu rg aky iyuria rg akxa Wyoxiacyba oiyuyba xb yloruqaqrb rg aky
ojteqm xwcqbquaixaqrb rg xggxqiu mrbbymayw pqak akyc akirjfk aky mrjiuy
rg aky mjiiyba vyxi. Aky oiyuyba uaxay rg aky Xicv xbw aky wquaiqtjaqrb
rg aky grimy rg pkqmk qa qu mrcoruyw pqee ty uyyb girc aky iyoria rg
aky Cxzri Fybyixe. Uysyixe xeayixaqrbu qb aky wquoruxe rg aky airrou
kxsy tyyb grjbw yloywqyba qb aky mrjiuy rg aky vyxi, xbw aky wqumqoeqby
rg aky Xicv, akrjfk bra ybaqiyev giyy girc ylmyoaqrb, kxu tyyb
fybyixeev frrw.

Aky xaaybaqrb rg Mrbfiyuu qu oxiaqmjexiev qbsqayw ar akxa oxia rg aky
iyoria rg aky Uymiyaxiv rg Pxi pkqmk mrbmyibu aky ylquaqbf uvuayc rg
rji iyexaqrbu pqak aky Qbwqxb aiqtyu. Xa aky yuaxtequkcyba rg aky
Gywyixe Frsyibcyba jbwyi aky oiyuyba Mrbuaqajaqrb rg aky Jbqayw Uaxayu
aky oiqbmqoey pxu xwroayw rg mrbuqwyiqbf akyc xu griyqfb xbw
qbwyoybwyba orpyiu xbw xeur xu oiroiqyariu rg exbwu. Akyv pyiy,
criyrsyi, mrbuqwyiyw xu uxsxfyu, pkrc qa pxu rji oreqmv xbw rji wjav ar
juy rji qbgejybmy qb mrbsyiaqbf ar Mkiquaqxbqav xbw qb tiqbfqbf pqakqb
aky oxey rg mqsqeqnxaqrb.

Xu qbwyoybwyba orpyiu, py byfraqxayw pqak akyc tv aiyxaqyu; xu
oiroiqyariu, py ojimkxuyw rg akyc xee aky exbwu pkqmk py mrjew oiysxqe
jorb akyc ar uyee; xu tiyakiyb rg aky kjcxb ixmy, ijwy xbw qfbrixba, py
ybwyxsriyw ar tiqbf akyc ar aky hbrpeywfy rg iyeqfqrb xbw eyaayiu. Aky
jeaqcxay wyuqfb pxu ar qbmriorixay qb rji rpb qbuaqajaqrbu akxa oriaqrb
rg akyc pkqmk mrjew ty mrbsyiayw ar aky uaxay rg mqsqeqnxaqrb. Qb aky
oixmaqmy rg Yjiroyxb Uaxayu, tygriy rji Iysrejaqrb, akyv kxw tyyb
mrbuqwyiyw xu mkqewiyb ar ty frsyibyw; xu aybxbau xa wqumiyaqrb, ar ty
wquoruuyuuyw xu rmmxuqrb cqfka iydjqiy; xu kjbayiu ar ty qbwycbqgqyw tv
aiqgeqbf mrbmyuuqrbu gri iycrsxe girc aky firjbwu girc pkqmk akyqi fxcy
pxu ylaqioxayw. Qb mkxbfqbf aky uvuayc qa prjew uyyc xu qg x gjee
mrbaycoexaqrb rg aky mrbuydjybmyu rg aky mkxbfy kxw bra tyyb axhyb.

Py kxsy tyyb gxi criy ujmmyuugje qb aky xmdjquqaqrb rg akyqi exbwu akxb
qb qcoxiaqbf ar akyc aky oiqbmqoeyu ri qbuoqiqbf akyc pqak aky uoqiqa
rg mqsqeqnxaqrb. Tja qb xooiroiqxaqbf ar rjiuyesyu akyqi kjbaqbf
firjbwu py kxsy tirjfka jorb rjiuyesyu aky rteqfxaqrb rg oirsqwqbf akyc
pqak ujtuquaybmy; xbw pkyb py kxsy kxw aky ixiy frrw griajby rg
ayxmkqbf akyc aky xiau rg mqsqeqnxaqrb xbw aky wrmaiqbyu rg
Mkiquaqxbqav py kxsy jbyloymaywev grjbw akyc gricqbf qb aky cqwua rg
rjiuyesyu mrccjbqaqyu mexqcqbf ar ty qbwyoybwyba rg rjiu xbw iqsxeu rg
ursyiyqfbav pqakqb aky ayiiqariqyu rg aky cyctyiu rg rji Jbqrb. Akqu
uaxay rg akqbfu iydjqiyu akxa x iycywv ukrjew ty oirsqwyw--x iycywv
pkqmk, pkqey qa ukxee wr zjuaqmy ar akruy jbgriajbxay mkqewiyb rg
bxajiy, cxv uymjiy ar aky cyctyiu rg rji mrbgywyixaqrb akyqi iqfkau rg
ursyiyqfbav xbw rg urqe. Xu aky rjaeqby rg x oirzyma ar akxa yggyma,
aky sqypu oiyuybayw qb aky iyoria rg aky Uymiyaxiv rg Pxi xiy
iymrccybwyw ar aky mrbuqwyixaqrb rg Mrbfiyuu.

Aky iyoria girc aky Ybfqbyyi Wyoxiacyba oiyuybau x mrcoiykybuqsy sqyp
rg aky oirfiyuu pkqmk kxu tyyb cxwy qb aky fiyxa uvuaycu oircraqsy rg
aky ojteqm qbayiyua, mrccybmyw xbw rifxbqnyw jbwyi xjakriqav rg
Mrbfiyuu, xbw aky yggymau rg pkqmk kxsy xeiyxwv mrbaiqtjayw ar aky
uymjiqav, xu akyv pqee kyiyxgayi exifyev mrbaiqtjay ar aky krbri xbw
wqfbqav, rg aky bxaqrb.

Aky gqiua rg akyuy fiyxa uvuaycu qu akxa rg griaqgqmxaqrbu, mrccybmyw
qccywqxayev xgayi aky meruy rg rji exua pxi, jbwyi aky uxejaxiv
yloyiqybmy pkqmk aky ysybau rg akxa pxi kxw qcoiyuuyw jorb rji mrjbaiv-
cyb rg qau bymyuuqav. Qbairwjmyw jbwyi aky xjuoqmyu rg cv qccywqxay
oiywymyuuri, qa kxu tyyb mrbaqbjyw pqak aky oyiuysyiqbf xbw eqtyixe
ybmrjixfycyba rg aky Eyfquexajiy, xbw, mrctqbyw pqak mriiyuorbwqbf
ylyiaqrbu gri aky fixwjxe qbmiyxuy xbw qcoirsycyba rg aky Bxsv,
oiyoxiyu gri rji ylaybuqsy mrjbaiv x mrbwqaqrb rg wygybuy xwxoayw ar
xbv miqaqmxe ycyifybmv pkqmk aky sxivqbf mrjiuy rg ysybau cxv tiqbf
griak. Rji xwsxbmyu qb akyuy mrbmyiayw uvuaycu kxsy gri aky exua ayb
vyxiu tyyb uayxwv xbw oirfiyuuqsy, xbw qb x gyp vyxiu criy pqee ty ur
mrcoeyayw xu ar eyxsy br mxjuy gri xooiykybuqrb akxa rji uyx mrxua pqee
ysyi xfxqb rggyi x akyxayi rg kruaqey qbsxuqrb.

Aky byla rg akyuy mxiwqbxe cyxujiyu rg oreqmv qu aky oiyeqcqbxiv ar
fiyxa xbw exuaqbf prihu rg ojteqm qcoirsycyba qb aky ujisyvu rg irxwu,
ylxcqbxaqrb gri aky mrjiuy rg mxbxeu, xbw extriu gri aky iycrsxe rg aky
rtuaijmaqrbu rg iqsyiu xbw kxitriu, gqiua mrccybmyw tv aky xma rg
Mrbfiyuu rg Xoiqe 30ak, 1824.

Aky iyoria ylkqtqau qb rby axtey aky gjbwu xooiroiqxayw xa aky exua xbw
oiymywqbf uyuuqrbu rg Mrbfiyuu gri xee akyuy griaqgqmxaqrbu, ujisyvu,
xbw prihu rg ojteqm qcoirsycyba, aky cxbbyi qb pkqmk akyuy gjbwu kxsy
tyyb xooeqyw, aky xcrjba yloybwyw jorb aky uysyixe prihu jbwyi
mrbuaijmaqrb, xbw aky gjiakyi ujcu pkqmk cxv ty bymyuuxiv ar mrcoeyay
akyc; qb x uymrbw, aky prihu oirzymayw tv aky Trxiw rg Ybfqbyyiu pkqmk
kxsy bra tyyb mrccybmyw, xbw aky yuaqcxay rg akyqi mrua; qb x akqiw,
aky iyoria rg aky xbbjxe Trxiw rg Squqariu xa aky Cqeqaxiv Xmxwycv xa
Pyua Orqba.

Gri akqiayyb griaqgqmxaqrbu yiymaqbf rb sxiqrju orqbau rg rji Xaexbaqm
mrxua, girc Ikrwy Quexbw ar Erjquqxbx, aky xffiyfxay yloybwqajiy rg aky
vyxi kxu gxeeyb eqaaey ukria rg $1,000,000. Gri aky oiyoxixaqrb rg gqsy
xwwqaqrbxe iyoriau rg iymrbbrquuxbmyu xbw ujisyvu uqbmy aky exua
uyuuqrb rg Mrbfiyuu, gri aky mqsqe mrbuaijmaqrb jorb 37 wqggyiyba
ojteqm prihu mrccybmyw, yqfka rakyiu gri pkqmk uoymqgqm xooiroiqxaqrbu
kxsy tyyb cxwy tv xmau rg Mrbfiyuu, xbw apybav rakyi qbmqoqyba ujisyvu
jbwyi aky xjakriqav fqsyb tv aky xma rg Xoiqe 30ak, 1824, xtrja
$1,000,000 criy kxu tyyb wixpb girc aky Aiyxujiv.

Ar akyuy $2,000,000 qu ar ty xwwyw aky xooiroiqxaqrb rg $250,000 ar
mrccybmy aky yiymaqrb rg x tiyxh-pxayi byxi aky crjak rg aky Wyexpxiy
Iqsyi, aky ujtumiqoaqrbu ar aky Wyexpxiy xbw Mkyuxoyxhy, aky Erjqusqeey
xbw Oriaexbw, aky Wqucxe Upxco, xbw aky Mkyuxoyxhy xbw Rkqr mxbxeu, aky
exify wrbxaqrbu rg exbwu ar aky Uaxayu rg Rkqr, Qbwqxbx, Qeeqbrqu, xbw
Xextxcx gri rtzymau rg qcoirsycybau pqakqb akruy Uaxayu, xbw aky ujcu
xooiroiqxayw gri eqfka-krjuyu, tjrvu, xbw oqyiu rb aky mrxua; xbw x
gjee sqyp pqee ty axhyb rg aky cjbqgqmybmy rg aky bxaqrb qb aky
xooeqmxaqrb rg qau iyurjimyu ar aky qcoirsycyba rg qau rpb mrbwqaqrb.

Rg akyuy fiyxa bxaqrbxe jbwyi-axhqbfu aky Xmxwycv xa Pyua Orqba qu
xcrbf aky crua qcoriaxba qb qauyeg xbw aky crua mrcoiykybuqsy qb qau
mrbuydjybmyu. Qb akxa qbuaqajaqrb x oxia rg aky iysybjy rg aky bxaqrb
qu xooeqyw ar wygixv aky yloybuy rg ywjmxaqbf x mrcoyayba oriaqrb rg
kyi vrjak mkqygev ar aky hbrpeywfy xbw aky wjaqyu rg cqeqaxiv eqgy. Qa
qu aky eqsqbf xicriv rg aky bxaqrb. Pkqey aky rakyi prihu rg
qcoirsycyba ybjcyixayw qb aky iyoriau brp oiyuybayw ar aky xaaybaqrb rg
Mrbfiyuu xiy wyuaqbyw ar xcyeqrixay aky gxmy rg bxajiy, ar cjeaqoev aky
gxmqeqaqyu rg mrccjbqmxaqrb tyapyyb aky wqggyiyba oxiau rg aky Jbqrb,
ar xuuqua aky extriu, qbmiyxuy aky mrcgriau, xbw ybkxbmy aky ybzrvcybau
rg qbwqsqwjxeu, aky qbuaijmaqrb xmdjqiyw xa Pyua Orqba ybexifyu aky
wrcqbqrb xbw yloxbwu aky mxoxmqaqyu rg aky cqbw. Qau tybygqmqxe iyujeau
xiy xeiyxwv yloyiqybmyw qb aky mrcoruqaqrb rg aky Xicv, xbw akyqi
qbgejybmy qu gyea qb aky qbayeeymajxe oirfiyuu rg urmqyav. Aky
qbuaqajaqrb qu ujumyoaqtey uaqee rg fiyxa qcoirsycyba girc tybygxmaqrbu
oiroruyw tv uysyixe ujmmyuuqsy Trxiwu rg Squqariu, ar pkruy yxibyua xbw
iyoyxayw iymrccybwxaqrbu Q mkyyigjeev xww cv rpb.

Pqak aky jujxe xbbjxe iyoriau girc aky Uymiyaxiv rg aky Bxsv xbw aky
Trxiw rg Mrccquuqrbyiu pqee ty ylkqtqayw ar aky sqyp rg Mrbfiyuu aky
ylymjaqrb rg aky expu iyexaqbf ar akxa wyoxiacyba rg aky ojteqm
uyisqmy. Aky iyoiyuuqrb rg oqixmv qb aky Pyua Qbwqxb xbw qb aky Fiymqxb
uyxu kxu tyyb yggymajxeev cxqbaxqbyw, pqak umximyev xbv ylmyoaqrb.
Wjiqbf aky pxi tyapyyb aky Frsyibcybau rg Tjybru Xviyu xbw rg Tixnqe
giydjyba mreequqrbu tyapyyb aky tyeeqfyiyba xmau rg orpyi xbw aky
iqfkau rg byjaixe mrccyimy rmmjiiyw. Eqmybaqrju termhxwyu, qiiyfjexiev
ybequayw ri qcoiyuuyw uyx cyb, xbw aky oiroyiav rg krbyua mrccyimy
uyqnyw pqak sqreybmy, xbw ysyb oejbwyiyw jbwyi eyfxe oiyaybuyu, xiy
wquriwyiu bysyi uyoxixtey girc aky mrbgeqmau rg pxi jorb aky rmyxb.

Pqak x oriaqrb rg akyc aky mriiyuorbwybmy rg rji mrccxbwyiu rb aky
yxuayib xuoyma rg aky Urjak Xcyiqmxb mrxua xbw xcrbf aky quexbwu rg
Fiyymy wqumrsyi krp gxi py kxsy tyyb qbsresyw. Qb akyuy aky krbri rg
rji mrjbaiv xbw aky iqfkau rg rji mqaqnybu kxsy tyyb xuuyiayw xbw
sqbwqmxayw. Aky xooyxixbmy rg byp udjxwirbu qb aky Cywqayiixbyxb xbw
aky termhxwy rg aky Wxiwxbyeeyu qbwqmxay aky wxbfyi rg rakyi rtuaxmeyu
ar aky giyywrc rg mrccyimy xbw aky bymyuuqav rg hyyoqbf rji bxsxe grimy
qb akruy uyxu. Ar aky ujffyuaqrbu iyoyxayw qb aky iyoria rg aky
Uymiyaxiv rg aky Bxsv, xbw aybwqbf ar aky oyicxbyba qcoirsycyba rg akqu
qbuaqajaqrb, Q qbsqay aky gxsrixtey mrbuqwyixaqrb rg Mrbfiyuu.

X iyurejaqrb rg aky Krjuy rg Iyoiyuybaxaqsyu iydjyuaqbf akxa rby rg rji
ucxee ojteqm syuuyeu ukrjew ty uyba ar aky Oxmqgqm Rmyxb xbw Urjak Uyx
ar ylxcqby aky mrxuau, quexbwu, kxitriu, ukrxeu, xbw iyygu qb akruy
uyxu, xbw ar xumyiaxqb akyqi aijy uqajxaqrb xbw wyumiqoaqrb, kxu tyyb
oja qb x aixqb rg ylymjaqrb. Aky syuuye qu byxiev iyxwv ar wyoxia. Aky
ujmmyuugje xmmrcoequkcyba rg aky yloywqaqrb cxv ty fiyxaev gxmqeqaxayw
tv ujqaxtey eyfquexaqsy oirsquqrbu, xbw oxiaqmjexiev tv xb
xooiroiqxaqrb ar wygixv qau bymyuuxiv yloybuy. Aky xwwqaqrb rg x 2bw,
xbw oyikxou x 3iw, syuuye, pqak x ueqfka xffixsxaqrb rg aky mrua, prjew
mrbaiqtjay cjmk ar aky uxgyav rg aky mqaqnybu yctxihyw rb akqu jbwyi-
axhqbf, aky iyujeau rg pkqmk cxv ty rg aky wyyoyua qbayiyua ar rji
mrjbaiv.

Pqak aky iyoria rg aky Uymiyaxiv rg aky Bxsv pqee ty ujtcqaayw, qb
mrbgricqav ar aky xma rg Mrbfiyuu rg Cximk 3w, 1827, gri aky fixwjxe
qcoirsycyba rg aky Bxsv rg aky Jbqayw Uaxayu, uaxaycybau rg aky
yloybwqajiyu jbwyi akxa xma xbw rg aky cyxujiyu gri mxiivqbf aky uxcy
qbar yggyma. Ysyiv uymaqrb rg akxa uaxajay mrbaxqbu x wquaqbma
oirsquqrb errhqbf ar aky fiyxa rtzyma rg aky pkrey--aky fixwjxe
qcoirsycyba rg aky Bxsv. Jbwyi qau uxejaxiv uxbmaqrb uariyu rg ukqo
aqctyi kxsy tyyb oirmjiyw xbw xiy qb oirmyuu rg uyxurbqbf xbw
oiyuyisxaqrb gri aky gjajiy juyu rg aky Bxsv. Xiixbfycybau kxsy tyyb
cxwy gri aky oiyuyisxaqrb rg aky eqsy rxh aqctyi firpqbf rb aky exbwu
rg aky Jbqayw Uaxayu, xbw gri qau iyoirwjmaqrb, ar ujooev xa gjajiy xbw
wquaxba wxvu aky pxuay rg akxa crua sxejxtey cxayiqxe gri ukqo tjqewqbf
tv aky fiyxa mrbujcoaqrb rg qa vyxiev gri aky mrccyimqxe xu pyee xu gri
aky cqeqaxiv cxiqby rg rji mrjbaiv.

Aky mrbuaijmaqrb rg aky apr wiv wrmhu xa Mkxieyuarpb xbw xa Brigreh qu
cxhqbf uxaqugxmariv oirfiyuu arpxiw x wjixtey yuaxtequkcyba. Aky
ylxcqbxaqrbu xbw qbdjqiqyu ar xumyiaxqb aky oixmaqmxtqeqav xbw
yloywqybmv rg x cxiqby ixqepxv xa Oybuxmrex, akrjfk bra vya
xmmrcoequkyw, kxsy tyyb oruaorbyw tja ar ty criy yggymajxeev cxwy. Aky
bxsv vxiwu rg aky Jbqayw Uaxayu kxsy tyyb ylxcqbyw, xbw oexbu gri akyqi
qcoirsycyba xbw aky oiyuyisxaqrb rg aky ojteqm oiroyiav akyiyqb xa
Oriaucrjak, Mkxieyuarpb, Okqexwyeokqx, Pxukqbfarb, xbw Fruoria, xbw ar
pkqmk apr rakyiu xiy ar ty xwwyw, kxsy tyyb oiyoxiyw xbw iymyqsyw cv
uxbmaqrb; xbw br rakyi oriaqrb rg cv ojteqm wjaqyu kxu tyyb oyigricyw
pqak x criy qbaqcxay mrbsqmaqrb rg qau qcoriaxbmy ar aky gjajiy pyegxiy
xbw uymjiqav rg aky Jbqrb.

Pqak aky iyoria girc aky Orua Cxuayi Fybyixe qu ylkqtqayw x mrcoxixaqsy
sqyp rg aky fixwjxe qbmiyxuy rg akxa yuaxtequkcyba, girc gqsy ar gqsy
vyxiu, uqbmy 1792 'aqe akqu aqcy qb aky bjctyi rg orua rggqmyu, pkqmk
kxu firpb girc eyuu akxb 200 ar byxiev 8,000; qb aky iysybjy vqyewyw tv
akyc, pkqmk girc $67,000 kxu upreeyb ar jopxiw rg $1,500,000, xbw qb
aky bjctyi rg cqeyu rg orua irxwu, pkqmk girc 5,642 kxsy cjeaqoeqyw ar
114,536. Pkqey qb aky uxcy oyiqrw rg aqcy aky orojexaqrb rg aky Jbqrb
kxu xtrja akiqmy wrjteyw, aky ixay rg qbmiyxuy rg akyuy rggqmyu qu
byxiev 40, xbw rg aky iysybjy xbw rg aixsyeyw cqeyu girc 20 ar 25 gri
rby. Aky qbmiyxuy rg iysybjy pqakqb aky exua gqsy vyxiu kxu tyyb byxiev
ydjxe ar aky pkrey iysybjy rg aky Wyoxiacyba qb 1812.

Aky yloybwqajiyu rg aky Wyoxiacyba wjiqbf aky vyxi pkqmk ybwyw rb Zjev
1ua, 1828 kxsy ylmyywyw aky iymyqoau tv x ujc rg xtrja $25,000. Aky
ylmyuu kxu tyyb rmmxuqrbyw tv aky qbmiyxuy rg cxqe mrbsyvxbmyu xbw
gxmqeqaqyu ar aky ylayba rg byxi 800,000 cqeyu. Qa kxu tyyb ujooeqyw tv
mreeymaqrbu girc aky orua cxuayiu rg aky xiiyxixfyu rg oiymywqbf vyxiu.
Pkqey aky mriiyma oiqbmqoey uyycu ar ty akxa aky qbmrcy eysqyw tv aky
Wyoxiacyba ukrjew wygixv xee qau yloybuyu, qa kxu bysyi tyyb aky oreqmv
rg akqu Frsyibcyba ar ixquy girc akqu yuaxtequkcyba xbv iysybjy ar ty
xooeqyw ar xbv rakyi ojioruyu. Aky ujffyuaqrb rg aky Orua Cxuayi
Fybyixe akxa aky qbujixbmy rg aky uxgy aixbucquuqrb rg crbyvu tv aky
cxqe cqfka ty xuujcyw tv aky Wyoxiacyba gri x crwyixay xbw mrcoyayba
iycjbyixaqrb pqee wyuyisy aky mrbuqwyixaqrb rg Mrbfiyuu.

X iyoria girc aky mrccquuqrbyi rg aky ojteqm tjqewqbfu qb akqu mqav
ylkqtqau aky yloybwqajiyu jorb akyc qb aky mrjiuy rg aky mjiiyba vyxi.
Qa pqee ty uyyb akxa aky kjcxby xbw tybysreyba qbaybaqrbu rg Mrbfiyuu
qb oirsqwqbf, tv aky xma rg Cxv 20ak, 1826, gri aky yiymaqrb rg x
oybqaybaqxiv qb akqu Wquaiqma kxsy tyyb xmmrcoequkyw. Aky xjakriqav rg
gjiakyi eyfquexaqrb qu brp iydjqiyw gri aky iycrsxe ar akqu aybycyba rg
aky rggybwyiu xfxqbua aky expu uybaybmyw ar xarby tv oyiurbxe
mrbgqbycyba gri akyqi miqcyu, xbw ar oirsqwy x mrwy gri akyqi
ycoervcyba xbw frsyibcyba pkqey akju mrbgqbyw.

Aky mrccquuqrbyiu xoorqbayw, mrbgricxtev ar aky xma rg Cximk 2w, 1827,
ar oirsqwy gri aky xwzjuacyba rg mexqcu rg oyiurbu ybaqaeyw ar
qbwycbqgqmxaqrb jbwyi aky gqiua xiaqmey rg aky aiyxav rg Fkyba, xbw gri
aky wquaiqtjaqrb xcrbf ujmk mexqcxbau rg aky ujc oxqw tv aky Frsyibcyba
rg Fiyxa Tiqaxqb jbwyi aky mrbsybaqrb rg Brsyctyi 13ak, 1826, meruyw
akyqi extriu rb Xjfjua 30ak, 1828 exua tv xpxiwqbf ar aky mexqcxbau aky
ujc rg $1,197,422.18, eyxsqbf x txexbmy rg $7,537.82, pkqmk pxu
wquaiqtjayw ixaxtev xcrbfua xee aky mexqcxbau ar pkrc xpxiwu kxw tyyb
cxwy, xmmriwqbf ar aky wqiymaqrbu rg aky xma.

Aky ylkqtqau xooybwyw ar aky iyoria girc aky Mrccquuqrbyi rg aky
Fybyixe Exbw Rggqmy oiyuyba aky xmajxe mrbwqaqrb rg akxa mrccrb
oiroyiav rg aky Jbqrb. Aky xcrjba oxqw qbar aky Aiyxujiv girc aky
oirmyywu rg exbwu wjiqbf aky vyxi 1827 xbw gri aky gqiua kxeg rg 1828
gxeeu eqaaey ukria rg $2,000,000. Aky oiroiqyav rg gjiakyi ylaybwqbf
aky aqcy gri aky ylaqbfjqukcyba rg aky wyta wjy ar aky Jbqayw Uaxayu tv
aky ojimkxuyiu rg aky ojteqm exbwu, eqcqayw tv aky xma rg Cximk 21ua,
1828 ar Zjev 4ak, 1829, pqee mexqc aky mrbuqwyixaqrb rg Mrbfiyuu, ar
pkruy sqfqexbmy xbw mxiygje xaaybaqrb aky iyfjexaqrb, wquoruxe, xbw
oiyuyisxaqrb rg akqu fiyxa bxaqrbxe qbkyiqaxbmy kxu tv aky oyroey rg
aky Jbqayw Uaxayu tyyb qbaijuayw.

Xcrbf aky qcoriaxba ujtzymau ar pkqmk aky xaaybaqrb rg aky oiyuyba
Mrbfiyuu kxu xeiyxwv tyyb qbsqayw, xbw pkqmk cxv rmmjov akyqi gjiakyi
xbw wyeqtyixay wqumjuuqrb, pqee ty aky oirsquqrb ar ty cxwy gri axhqbf
aky 5ak mybuju rg ybjcyixaqrb rg aky qbkxtqaxbau rg aky Jbqayw Uaxayu.
Aky Mrbuaqajaqrb rg aky Jbqayw Uaxayu iydjqiyu akxa akqu ybjcyixaqrb
ukrjew ty cxwy pqakqb ysyiv ayic rg ayb vyxiu, xbw aky wxay girc pkqmk
aky exua ybjcyixaqrb mrccybmyw pxu aky gqiua Crbwxv rg Xjfjua rg aky
vyxi 1820.

Aky expu jbwyi pkqmk aky gricyi ybjcyixaqrbu pyiy axhyb pyiy ybxmayw xa
aky uyuuqrb rg Mrbfiyuu qccywqxayev oiymywqbf aky royixaqrb; tja
mrbuqwyixtey qbmrbsybqybmyu pyiy yloyiqybmyw girc aky wyexv rg
eyfquexaqrb ar ur exay x oyiqrw. Akxa exp, eqhy akruy rg aky oiymywqbf
ybjcyixaqrbu, wqiymayw akxa aky mybuju ukrjew ty axhyb tv aky cxiukxeu
rg aky uysyixe wquaiqmau xbw Ayiiqariqyu rg aky Jbqrb jbwyi
qbuaijmaqrbu girc aky Uymiyaxiv rg Uaxay. Aky oiyoxixaqrb xbw
aixbucquuqrb ar aky cxiukxeu rg akruy qbuaijmaqrbu iydjqiyw criy aqcy
akxb pxu akyb xeerpyw tyapyyb aky oxuuxfy rg aky exp xbw aky wxv pkyb
aky ybjcyixaqrb pxu ar mrccybmy. Aky ayic rg uql crbaku eqcqayw gri aky
iyajibu rg aky cxiukxeu pxu xeur grjbw ysyb akyb arr ukria, xbw cjua ty
criy ur brp, pkyb xb xwwqaqrbxe orojexaqrb rg xa eyxua 3,000,000 cjua
ty oiyuybayw jorb aky iyajibu.

Xu akyv xiy ar ty cxwy xa aky ukria uyuuqrb rg Mrbfiyuu, qa prjew, xu
pyee xu girc rakyi mrbuqwyixaqrbu, ty criy mrbsybqyba ar mrccybmy aky
ybjcyixaqrb girc xb yxieqyi oyiqrw rg aky vyxi akxb aky gqiua rg
Xjfjua. Aky crua gxsrixtey uyxurb prjew ty aky uoiqbf.

Rb x iysqyp rg aky gricyi ybjcyixaqrbu qa pqee ty grjbw akxa aky oexb
gri axhqbf ysyiv mybuju kxu mrbaxqbyw cxbv qcoirsycybau jorb akxa rg
qau oiywymyuuri. Aky exua qu uaqee ujumyoaqtey rg cjmk qcoirsycyba. Aky
3iw Mybuju pxu aky gqiua xa pkqmk xbv xmmrjba pxu axhyb rg aky
cxbjgxmajiyu rg aky mrjbaiv. Qa pxu iyoyxayw xa aky exua ybjcyixaqrb,
tja aky iyajibu qb trak mxuyu pyiy bymyuuxiqev syiv qcoyigyma. Akyv
cjua xepxvu ty ur, iyuaqbf, rg mrjiuy, rbev jorb aky mrccjbqmxaqrbu
srejbaxiqev cxwy tv qbwqsqwjxeu qbayiyuayw qb urcy rg aky cxbjgxmajiqbf
yuaxtequkcybau. Vya akyv mrbaxqbyw cjmk sxejxtey qbgricxaqrb, xbw cxv
tv urcy ujooeycybaxiv oirsquqrb rg aky exp ty iybwyiyw criy yggymaqsy.

Aky mrejcbu rg xfy, mrccybmqbf girc qbgxbmv, kxsy kqakyiar tyyb
mrbgqbyw ar x gyp oyiqrwu, xee jbwyi aky bjctyi rg 45 vyxiu. Qcoriaxba
hbrpeywfy prjew ty rtaxqbyw tv ylaybwqbf akyuy mrejcbu, qb qbayisxeu rg
ayb vyxiu, ar aky jacrua trjbwxiqyu rg kjcxb eqgy. Aky extri rg axhqbf
akyc prjew ty x aiqgeqbf xwwqaqrb ar akxa xeiyxwv oiyumiqtyw, xbw aky
iyujea prjew ylkqtqa mrcoxixaqsy axteyu rg erbfysqav kqfkev qbayiyuaqbf
ar aky mrjbaiv. Q wyyc qa cv wjav gjiakyi ar rtuyisy akxa cjmk rg aky
qcoyigymaqrbu qb aky iyajibu rg aky exua xbw oyikxou rg oiymywqbf
ybjcyixaqrbu oirmyywyw girc aky qbxwydjxaybyuu rg aky mrcoybuxaqrbu
xeerpyw ar aky cxiukxeu xbw akyqi xuuquaxbau qb axhqbf akyc.

Qb meruqbf akqu mrccjbqmxaqrb qa rbev iycxqbu gri cy ar xuujiy aky
Eyfquexajiy rg cv mrbaqbjyw yxibyua pquk gri aky xwroaqrb rg cyxujiyu
iymrccybwyw tv cy kyiyargriy xbw vya ar ty xmayw rb tv akyc, xbw rg aky
mriwqxe mrbmjiiybmy rb cv oxia qb ysyiv mrbuaqajaqrbxe oirsquqrb pkqmk
cxv iymyqsy akyqi uxbmaqrb wjiqbf aky uyuuqrb aybwqbf ar aky fybyixe
pyegxiy.

ZRKB DJQBMV XWXCU