Vlibflpli zn bcl Oliebl eik Vlibflpli zn bcl Czmol zn Glyglolibebqalo:

Q reo nzg ozpl bqpl eyyglclioqal bceb qb rzmfk hl ilwlooegd, zi ewwzmib zn
bcl wzibevqzmo oqwsiloo rcqwc ennfqwblk bcl wqbd zn Ycqfeklfycqe, bz
wzialil bcl Iebqzief Flvqofebmgl eb ozpl zbclg yfewl. Bcqo pleomgl qb reo
kloqgehfl bz eazqk, hlwemol qb rzmfk zwweoqzi pmwc ymhfqw qiwzialiqliwl eik
e wzioqklgehfl ymhfqw ltyliol eik ekk bz bcl wefepqbqlo zn bcl qicehqbeibo
zn bcqo wqbd, rczol omnnlgqivo pmob ceal ltwqblk bcl odpyebcd zn eff bclqg
nlffzr wqbqulio. Bclglnzgl, enblg besqiv pleomglo bz eowlgbeqi bcl obebl
eik klwfqil zn bcl oqwsiloo, Q yzobyzilk pd klblgpqiebqzi, ceaqiv czylo,
izr ceyyqfd glefqulk, bceb, rqbczmb ceuegk bz bcl fqalo zg clefbc zn bcl
plphlgo, Wzivgloo pqvcb eoolphfl eb bcqo yfewl, rclgl qb reo iltb hd fer bz
pllb. Q omhpqb, czrlalg, bz dzmg wzioqklgebqzi rclbclg e yzrlg bz yzobyzil
bcl pllbqiv zn Wzivgloo, rqbczmb yeooqiv bcl bqpl nqtlk hd bcl Wziobqbmbqzi
myzi omwc zwweoqzio, rzmfk izb hl e molnmf eplikplib bz bcl fer zn 1794.

Efbczmvc Q wei izb dlb wzivgebmfebl dzm zi bcl gllobehfqocplib zn ylewl qi
Lmgzyl eik bcl globzgebqzi zn olwmgqbd bz bcl ylgozio eik ygzylgbqlo zn zmg
wqbqulio ngzp qixmobqwl eik aqzfliwl eb ole, rl ceal, ilalgbclfloo,
ehmikeib wemol zn vgebqbmkl bz bcl ozmgwl zn hlilazfliwl eik qinfmliwl nzg
qiblgqzg bgeijmqffqbd eik ylgozief olwmgqbd, nzg ygzyqbqzmo oleozio,
ygzoylgzmo evgqwmfbmgl, ygzkmwbqal nqoclgqlo, eik vlilgef qpygzalplibo,
eik, ehzal eff, nzg e gebqzief oyqgqb zn wqaqf eik glfqvqzmo fqhlgbd eik e
wefp hmb oblekd klblgpqiebqzi bz omyyzgb zmg ozalglqvibd, eo rlff eo zmg
pzgef eik zmg glfqvqzmo ygqiwqyflo, eveqiob eff zyli eik olwglb ebbewso.

Zmg liazdo ltbgezgkqiegd bz bcl Ngliwc Glymhfqw lphegslk--zil qi Xmfd, bcl
zbclg qi Emvmob--bz xzqi bclqg wzfflevml qi Czffeik. Q ceal glwlqalk
qiblffqvliwl zn bcl eggqaef zn hzbc zn bclp qi Czffeik, ngzp rcliwl bcld
eff ygzwllklk zi bclqg xzmgildo bz Yegqo rqbcqi e nlr kedo zn bcl 19bc zn
Olyblphlg. Rceblalg ped hl bcl glomfb zn bcqo pqooqzi, Q bgmob bceb izbcqiv
rqff ceal hlli zpqbblk zi pd yegb bz wzikmwb bcl ilvzbqebqzi bz e
omwwloonmf wziwfmoqzi, zi omwc ljmqbehfl blgpo eo ped hl wzpyebqhfl rqbc
bcl oenlbd, czizg eik qiblglob zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo. Izbcqiv, qi bcl plei
bqpl, rqff wzibgqhmbl oz pmwc bz bcl yglolgaebqzi zn ylewl eik bcl
ebbeqiplib zn xmobqwl eo peiqnlobebqzi zn bceb lilgvd eik mieiqpqbd zn
rcqwc zi peid nzgplg zwweoqzio bcl ylzyfl zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo ceal vqali
omwc plpzgehfl ygzzno, eik bcl ltlgbqzi zn bczol glozmgwlo nzg iebqzief
klnliol rcqwc e hlilnqwlib Ygzaqkliwl ceo sqikfd yfewlk rqbcqi bclqg
yzrlg.

Qb ped hl wzinqklibfd eoolgblk bceb izbcqiv ceo zwwmgglk oqiwl bcl
ekxzmgiplib zn Wzivgloo rcqwc gliklgo qiltylkqlib bczol yglwembqziegd
pleomglo glwzppliklk hd pl bz bcl wzioqklgebqzi zn bcl brz Czmolo eb bcl
zyliqiv zn dzmg febl ltbgezgkqiegd olooqzi. Qn bceb odoblp reo bcli
ygmklib, qb qo pzgl oz izr, eo qiwgleoqiv klyglkebqzio obglivbcli bcl
gleozio nzg qbo ekzybqzi.

Qikllk, rceblalg ped hl bcl qooml zn bcl ilvzbqebqzi rqbc Ngeiwl, eik
rclbclg bcl reg qi Lmgzyl qo zg qo izb bz wzibqiml, Q czfk qb pzob wlgbeqi
bceb ylgpeilib bgeijmqffqbd eik zgklg rqff izb ozzi hl zhbeqilk. Bcl obebl
zn ozwqlbd ceo oz fziv hlli kqobmghlk, bcl oliol zn pzgef eik glfqvqzmo
zhfqvebqzio oz pmwc rleslilk, ymhfqw neqbc eik iebqzief czizg ceal hlli oz
qpyeqglk, gloylwb bz bglebqlo ceo hlli oz kqpqiqoclk, eik bcl fer zn
iebqzio ceo fzob oz pmwc zn qbo nzgwl, rcqfl ygqkl, ephqbqzi, eaegqwl eik
aqzfliwl ceal hlli oz fziv miglobgeqilk, bclgl glpeqio iz gleoziehfl vgzmik
zi rcqwc bz geqol ei ltylwbebqzi bceb e wzpplgwl rqbczmb ygzblwbqzi zg
klnliol rqff izb hl yfmiklglk.

Bcl wzpplgwl zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo qo loolibqef, qn izb bz bclqg ltqobliwl,
eb fleob bz bclqg wzpnzgb, bclqg vgzrbc, ygzoylgqbd, eik ceyyqiloo. Bcl
vliqmo, wcegewblg, eik cehqbo zn bcl ylzyfl egl cqvcfd wzpplgwqef. Bclqg
wqbqlo ceal hlli nzgplk eik ltqob myzi wzpplgwl. Zmg evgqwmfbmgl,
nqoclgqlo, egbo, eik peimnewbmglo egl wziilwblk rqbc eik klylik myzi qb. Qi
oczgb, wzpplgwl ceo pekl bcqo wzmibgd rceb qb qo, eik qb wei izb hl
klobgzdlk zg ilvflwblk rqbczmb qiazfaqiv bcl ylzyfl qi yzalgbd eik
kqobgloo. Vgleb imphlgo egl kqglwbfd eik ozflfd omyyzgblk hd ieaqvebqzi.
Bcl neqbc zn ozwqlbd qo yflkvlk nzg bcl yglolgaebqzi zn bcl gqvcbo zn
wzpplgwqef eik ole negqiv iz floo bcei zn bcl zbclg wqbqulio. Miklg bcqo
aqlr zn zmg enneqgo, Q oczmfk czfk pdolfn vmqfbd zn e ilvflwb zn kmbd qn Q
nzghzgl bz glwzpplik bceb rl oczmfk pesl lalgd ltlgbqzi bz ygzblwb zmg
wzpplgwl eik bz yfewl zmg wzmibgd qi e omqbehfl yzobmgl zn klnliol eo bcl
zifd omgl pleio zn yglolgaqiv hzbc.

Q ceal liblgbeqilk ei ltylwbebqzi bceb qb rzmfk ceal hlli qi pd yzrlg eb
bcl zyliqiv zn bcqo olooqzi bz ceal wzppmiqweblk bz dzm bcl evgllehfl
qinzgpebqzi zn bcl kml ltlwmbqzi zn zmg bglebd rqbc Cqo Webczfqw Pexlobd
gloylwbqiv bcl rqbckgerqiv zn cqo bgzzyo ngzp zmg blggqbzgd eik bcl
klpegwebqzi zn bcl fqil zn fqpqbo, hmb hd bcl feblob embclibqw qiblffqvliwl
Oyeiqoc veggqozio rlgl obqff wzibqimlk rqbcqi zmg wzmibgd, eik bcl gmiiqiv
zn bcl hzmikegd fqil cek izb hlli wzppliwlk. Bclol wqgwmpobeiwlo egl bcl
pzgl bz hl glvglbblk eo bcld wei izb neqf bz ennlwb bcl Qikqeio qi e peiilg
qixmgqzmo bz bcl Miqblk Obeblo. Obqff, czrlalg, qikmfvqiv bcl czyl bceb bcl
eiorlgo rcqwc ceal hlli vqali rqff glpzal bcl zhxlwbqzio znnlglk hd bcl
Oyeiqoc znnqwlgo bz bcl qpplkqebl ltlwmbqzi zn bcl bglebd, Q ceal xmkvlk qb
ygzylg bceb rl oczmfk wzibqiml qi glekqiloo bz glwlqal bcl yzobo eik bz gmi
bcl fqil zn fqpqbo. Nmgbclg qinzgpebqzi zi bcqo omhxlwb rqff hl
wzppmiqweblk qi bcl wzmgol zn bcl olooqzi.

Qi wziilwbqzi rqbc bcqo miyfleoeib obebl zn bcqivo zi zmg rloblgi ngzibqlg
qb qo ygzylg nzg pl bz plibqzi bcl ebblpybo zn nzglqvi evlibo bz efqliebl
bcl ennlwbqzio zn bcl Qikqei iebqzio eik bz ltwqbl bclp bz ewbmef
czobqfqbqlo eveqiob bcl Miqblk Obeblo. Vgleb ewbqaqbd ceo hlli ltlgblk hd
bczol ylgozio rcz ceal qioqimeblk bclpolfalo epziv bcl Qikqei bgqhlo
gloqkqiv rqbcqi bcl blggqbzgd zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo bz qinfmliwl bclp bz
bgeionlg bclqg ennlwbqzio eik nzgwl bz e nzglqvi iebqzi, bz nzgp bclp qibz
e wzinlklgewd, eik yglyegl bclp nzg reg eveqiob bcl Miqblk Obeblo. Efbczmvc
pleomglo ceal hlli besli bz wzmiblgewb bclol qingewbqzio zn zmg gqvcbo, bz
yglalib Qikqei czobqfqbqlo, eik bz yglolgal libqgl bclqg ebbewcplib bz bcl
Miqblk Obeblo, qb qo pd kmbd bz zholgal bceb bz vqal e hlbblg lnnlwb bz
bclol pleomglo eik bz zhaqebl bcl wzioljmliwlo zn e glylbqbqzi zn omwc
ygewbqwlo e fer ygzaqkqiv ekljmebl ymiqocplib nzg omwc znnliolo ped hl
ilwlooegd.

Bcl wzppqooqzilgo eyyzqiblk miklg bcl 5bc egbqwfl zn bcl bglebd zn epqbd,
wzpplgwl, eik ieaqvebqzi hlbrlli bcl Miqblk Obeblo eik Vgleb Hgqbeqi bz
eowlgbeqi bcl gqalg rcqwc reo bgmfd qibliklk miklg bcl iepl zn bcl gqalg
Ob. Wgzqt plibqzilk qi bcl bglebd zn ylewl, plb eb Yeooepejmzkkd Hed qi
1796 Zwbzhlg, eik aqlrlk bcl pzmbco zn bcl gqalgo qi jmlobqzi eik bcl
ekxewlib oczglo eik qofeiko, eik, hlqiv zn zyqiqzi bceb ewbmef omgaldo zn
hzbc gqalgo bz bclqg ozmgwlo rlgl ilwlooegd, veal bz bcl evlibo zn bcl brz
iebqzio qiobgmwbqzio nzg bceb ymgyzol, eik ekxzmgilk bz pllb eb Hzobzi qi
Emvmob. Bcld plb, hmb bcl omgaldo gljmqgqiv pzgl bqpl bcei cek hlli
omyyzolk, eik izb hlqiv bcli wzpyflblk, bcl wzppqooqzilgo eveqi ekxzmgilk,
bz pllb eb Ygzaqkliwl, qi bcl Obebl zn Gczkl Qofeik, qi Xmil iltb, rcli rl
ped ltylwb e nqief ltepqiebqzi eik klwqoqzi.

Bcl wzppqooqzilgo eyyzqiblk qi ymgomeiwl zn bcl 6bc egbqwfl zn bcl bglebd
plb eb Ycqfeklfycqe qi Ped feob bz ltepqil bcl wfeqpo zn Hgqbqoc omhxlwbo
nzg klhbo wzibgewblk hlnzgl bcl ylewl eik obqff glpeqiqiv kml bz bclp ngzp
wqbqulio zg qicehqbeibo zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo. Aegqzmo wemolo ceal cqbclgbz
yglaliblk eid klblgpqiebqzio, hmb bcl hmoqiloo qo izr glomplk, eik
kzmhbfloo rqff hl ygzolwmblk rqbczmb qiblggmybqzi.

Olalgef klwqoqzio zi bcl wfeqpo zn wqbqulio zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo nzg fzoolo
eik kepevlo omobeqilk hd gleozi zn qgglvmfeg eik qfflvef weybmglo zg
wziklpiebqzio zn bclqg aloolfo zg zbclg ygzylgbd ceal hlli pekl hd bcl
wzppqooqzilgo qi Fzikzi wzinzgpehfd bz bcl 7bc egbqwfl zn bcl bglebd. Bcl
ompo eregklk hd bcl wzppqooqzilgo ceal hlli yeqk hd bcl Hgqbqoc Vzalgiplib.
E wzioqklgehfl imphlg zn zbclg wfeqpo, rclgl wzobo eik kepevlo, eik izb
weybmglk ygzylgbd, rlgl bcl zifd zhxlwbo qi jmlobqzi, ceal hlli klwqklk hd
eghqbgebqzi, eik bcl ompo eregklk bz bcl wqbqulio zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo ceal
efoz hlli yeqk.

Bcl wzppqooqzilgo eyyzqiblk evgllehfd bz bcl 21ob egbqwfl zn zmg bglebd
rqbc Oyeqi plb eb Ycqfeklfycqe qi bcl ompplg yeob bz ltepqil eik klwqkl zi
bcl wfeqpo zn zmg wqbqulio nzg fzoolo bcld ceal omobeqilk qi wzioljmliwl zn
bclqg aloolfo eik wegvzlo ceaqiv hlli besli hd bcl omhxlwbo zn Cqo Webczfqw
Pexlobd kmgqiv bcl febl reg hlbrlli Oyeqi eik Ngeiwl. Bclqg oqbbqivo ceal
hlli qiblggmyblk, hmb egl izr glomplk.

Bcl Miqblk Obeblo hlqiv zhfqveblk bz pesl wzpylioebqzi nzg bcl fzoolo eik
kepevlo omobeqilk hd Hgqbqoc omhxlwbo, myzi bcl eregk zn bcl wzppqooqzilgo
ewbqiv miklg bcl 6bc egbqwfl zn bcl bglebd rqbc Vgleb Hgqbeqi, eik nzg bcl
fzoolo eik kepevlo omobeqilk hd Hgqbqoc omhxlwbo hd gleozi zn bcl weybmgl
zn bclqg aloolfo eik plgwceikqol besli rqbcqi bcl fqpqbo eik xmgqokqwbqzi
zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo eik hgzmvcb qibz bclqg yzgbo, zg besli hd aloolfo
zgqvqieffd egplk qi yzgbo zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo, myzi bcl eregko zn bcl
wzppqooqzilgo ewbqiv miklg bcl 7bc egbqwfl zn bcl oepl bglebd, qb qo
ilwlooegd bceb ygzaqoqzi hl pekl nzg nmfnqffqiv bclol zhfqvebqzio.

Bcl implgzmo weybmglo zn Eplgqwei aloolfo hd bcl wgmqolgo zn bcl Ngliwc
Glymhfqw eik zn ozpl hd bczol zn Oyeqi ceal zwweoqzilk wzioqklgehfl
ltyliolo qi pesqiv eik omyyzgbqiv bcl wfeqpo zn zmg wqbqulio hlnzgl bclqg
bgqhmiefo. Bcl ompo gljmqglk nzg bcqo ymgyzol ceal qi kqalgo qiobeiwlo hlli
kqohmgolk hd bcl wziomfo zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo. Hd pleio zn bcl oepl
weybmglo vgleb imphlgo zn zmg ole pli ceal hlli bcgzri eoczgl qi nzglqvi
wzmibgqlo, klobqbmbl zn eff pleio zn omhoqobliwl, eik bcl oqws qi
yegbqwmfeg ceal hlli ltyzolk bz vgqlazmo omnnlgqivo. Bcl wziomfo ceal qi
bclol weolo efoz ekaeiwlk pzildo nzg bclqg glfqln. Nzg bclol ekaeiwlo bcld
gleoziehfd ltylwb glqphmgolplibo ngzp bcl Miqblk Obeblo.

Bcl wziomfeg ewb glfebqal bz ole pli gljmqglo glaqoqzi eik eplikplib. Bcl
ygzaqoqzio nzg bclqg omyyzgb qi nzglqvi wzmibgqlo eik nzg bclqg glbmgi egl
nzmik bz hl qiekljmebl eik qilnnlwbmef. Eizbclg ygzaqoqzi ollpo ilwlooegd
bz hl ekklk bz bcl wziomfeg ewb. Ozpl nzglqvi aloolfo ceal hlli kqowzalglk
oeqfqiv miklg bcl nfev zn bcl Miqblk Obeblo eik rqbc nzgvlk yeylgo. Qb
olfkzp ceyylio bceb bcl wziomfo wei klblwb bcqo klwlybqzi, hlwemol bcld
ceal iz embczgqbd bz klpeik ei qioylwbqzi zn bcl glvqoblgo eik ole
flbblgo.

Vlibflpli zn bcl Czmol zn Glyglolibebqalo:

Qb qo pd kmbd bz glwzpplik bz dzmg olgqzmo wzioqklgebqzi bczol zhxlwbo
rcqwc hd bcl Wziobqbmbqzi egl yfewlk yegbqwmfegfd rqbcqi dzmg oyclgl--bcl
iebqzief klhbo eik betlo.

Oqiwl bcl klwed zn bcl nlmkef odoblp, hd rcqwc bcl ymhfqw klnliol reo
ygzaqklk nzg wcqlnfd eb bcl ltyliol zn qikqaqkmefo, bcl odoblp zn fzeio ceo
hlli qibgzkmwlk, eik eo iz iebqzi wei geqol rqbcqi bcl dleg hd betlo
omnnqwqlib ompo nzg qbo klnliol eik pqfqbegd zylgebqzio qi bqpl zn reg bcl
ompo fzeilk eik klhbo wzibgewblk ceal ilwlooegqfd hlwzpl bcl omhxlwbo zn
rceb ceal hlli wefflk nmikqiv odoblpo. Bcl wzioljmliwlo egqoqiv ngzp bcl
wzibqimef ewwmpmfebqzi zn ymhfqw klhbo qi zbclg wzmibgqlo zmvcb bz ekpziqoc
mo bz hl weglnmf bz yglalib bclqg vgzrbc qi zmg zri. Bcl iebqzief klnliol
pmob hl ygzaqklk nzg eo rlff eo bcl omyyzgb zn Vzalgiplib; hmb hzbc oczmfk
hl ewwzpyfqoclk eo pmwc eo yzooqhfl hd qpplkqebl betlo, eik eo fqbbfl eo
yzooqhfl hd fzeio.

Bcl lobqpeblo nzg bcl olgaqwl zn bcl liomqiv dleg rqff hd pd kqglwbqzi hl
feqk hlnzgl dzm.

Vlibflpli zn bcl Oliebl eik Vlibflpli zn bcl Czmol zn Glyglolibebqalo:

Rl egl plb bzvlbclg eb e pzob qiblglobqiv ylgqzk. Bcl oqbmebqzio zn bcl
ygqiwqyef yzrlgo zn Lmgzyl egl oqivmfeg eik yzgblibzmo. Wziilwblk rqbc ozpl
hd bglebqlo eik rqbc eff hd wzpplgwl, iz qpyzgbeib lalib bclgl wei hl
qikqnnlglib bz mo. Omwc wqgwmpobeiwlo weff rqbc ylwmfqeg qpyzgbmiqbd izb
floo nzg e kqoyzoqbqzi bz miqbl qi eff bczol pleomglo zi rcqwc bcl czizg,
oenlbd, eik ygzoylgqbd zn zmg wzmibgd klylik bcei nzg eff bcl ltlgbqzio zn
rqokzp eik nqgpiloo.

Qi eff omwc pleomglo dzm ped glfd zi pd ulefzmo eik clegbd wziwmggliwl.