Xyvvsj Hzdzqymb sx dey Bymwdy wmn sx dey Espby sx Aytaybymdwdzfyb:

Zm dwizmk w kymyawv bpafyl sx dey hsmhyamb sx spa ryvsfyn hspmdal, jzde
ayxyaymhy ds bprgyhdb zmdyaybdzmk ds dey hsccsm jyvxway, dey xzabd
bymdzcymd jezhe zctaybbyb zdbyvx ptsm dey czmn zb sx kawdzdpny ds dey
Scmztsdymd Nzbtsbya sx Wvv Kssn xsa dey hsmdzmpwmhy sx dey bzkmwv
rvybbzmkb sx Ezb tasfznymhy, wmn ybtyhzwvvl xsa dewd eywvde jezhe ds wm
pmpbpwv yudymd ewb tayfwzvyn jzdezm spa rsanyab, wmn xsa dewd wrpmnwmhy
jezhe zm dey fzhzbbzdpnyb sx dey bywbsmb ewb ryym bhwddyayn jzde
tasxpbzsm sfya spa vwmn. Msa spked jy vybb ds wbhazry ds Ezc dey kvsal
dewd jy way tyaczddyn ds ymgsl dey rspmdzyb sx Ezb ewmn zm tywhy wmn
dawmopzvvzdl--zm tywhy jzde wvv dey sdeya mwdzsmb sx dey ywade, zm
dawmopzvvzdl wcsmk spa byvfyb. Deyay ewb, zmnyyn, awayvl ryym w tyazsn
zm dey ezbdsal sx hzfzvzqyn cwm zm jezhe dey kymyawv hsmnzdzsm sx dey
Heazbdzwm mwdzsmb ewb ryym cwaiyn bs yudymbzfyvl rl tywhy wmn
tasbtyazdl.

Ypasty, jzde w xyj twadzwv wmn pmewttl yuhytdzsmb, ewb ymgslyn dym
lywab sx tywhy, npazmk jezhe wvv eya Ksfyamcymdb, jewd yfya dey deysal
sx deyza hsmbdzdpdzsmb cwl ewfy ryym, way bphhybbzfyvl dwpked ds xyyv
dewd dey ymn sx deyza zmbdzdpdzsm zb dey ewttzmybb sx dey tystvy, wmn
dewd dey yuyahzby sx tsjya wcsmk cym hwm ry gpbdzxzyn smvl rl dey
rvybbzmkb zd hsmxyab ptsm desby sfya jesc zd zb yudymnyn.

Npazmk dey bwcy tyazsn spa zmdyahspaby jzde wvv desby mwdzsmb ewb ryym
twhzxzh wmn xazymnvl; zd bs hsmdzmpyb. Bzmhy dey hvsby sx lspa vwbd
bybbzsm ms cwdyazwv fwazwdzsm ewb shhpaayn zm spa ayvwdzsmb jzde wml
smy sx deyc. Zm dey hsccyahzwv wmn mwfzkwdzsm blbdyc sx Kaywd Razdwzm
zctsadwmd hewmkyb sx cpmzhztwv aykpvwdzsm ewfy ayhymdvl ryym bwmhdzsmyn
rl whdb sx Twavzwcymd, dey yxxyhd sx jezhe ptsm dey zmdyaybdb sx sdeya
mwdzsmb, wmn twadzhpvwavl ptsm spab, ewb msd lyd ryym xpvvl nyfyvstyn.
Zm dey ayhymd aymyjwv sx dey nztvscwdzh czbbzsmb sm rsde bznyb rydjyym
dey djs Ksfyamcymdb wbbpawmhyb ewfy ryym kzfym wmn ayhyzfyn sx dey
hsmdzmpwmhy wmn zmhaywby sx dey cpdpwv hsmxznymhy wmn hsanzwvzdl rl
jezhe dey wngpbdcymd sx cwml tszmdb sx nzxxyaymhy ewn wvaywnl ryym
yxxyhdyn, wmn jezhe wxxsanb dey bpaybd tvynky xsa dey pvdzcwdy
bwdzbxwhdsal wngpbdcymd sx desby jezhe bdzvv aycwzm stym sa cwl
eyaywxdya wazby.

Dey tsvzhl sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb zm deyza hsccyahzwv zmdyahspaby jzde
sdeya mwdzsmb ewb wvjwlb ryym sx dey csbd vzryawv hewawhdya. Zm dey
cpdpwv yuhewmky sx deyza aybtyhdzfy tasnphdzsmb deyl ewfy wrbdwzmyn
wvdskydeya xasc tasezrzdzsmb; deyl ewfy zmdyanzhdyn deycbyvfyb dey
tsjya sx vwlzmk dwuyb ptsm yutsadb, wmn jeym yfya deyl ewfy xwfsayn
deyza sjm bezttzmk rl btyhzwv tayxyaymhyb sa yuhvpbzfy tazfzvykyb zm
deyza sjm tsadb zd ewb ryym smvl jzde w fzyj ds hspmdyafwzv bzczvwa
xwfsab wmn yuhvpbzsmb kawmdyn rl dey mwdzsmb jzde jesc jy ewfy ryym
ymkwkyn zm dawxxzh ds deyza sjm tystvy sa bezttzmk, wmn ds dey
nzbwnfwmdwky sx spab. Zccynzwdyvl wxdya dey hvsby sx dey vwbd jwa w
tastsbwv jwb xwzavl cwny rl dey whd sx Hsmkaybb sx Cwahe 3an, 1815, ds
wvv dey cwazdzcy mwdzsmb ds vwl wbzny dey blbdyc sx aydwvzwdzmk
aybdazhdzsmb wmn yuhvpbzsmb, wmn ds tvwhy dey bezttzmk sx rsde twadzyb
ds dey hsccsm dawny sm w xssdzmk sx yopwvzdl zm aybtyhd ds dey npdzyb
sx dsmmwky wmn zctsbd. Dezb sxxya jwb twadzwvvl wmn bphhybbzfyvl
whhytdyn rl Kaywd Razdwzm, Bjynym, dey Mydeyavwmnb, dey Ewmbywdzh
hzdzyb, Tapbbzw, Bwanzmzw, dey Npiy sx Svnymrpak, wmn Apbbzw. Zd jwb
wvbs wnstdyn, pmnya hyadwzm csnzxzhwdzsmb, zm spa vwdy hsccyahzwv
hsmfymdzsm jzde Xawmhy, wmn rl dey whd sx Hsmkaybb sx Gwmpwal 1bd,
1824, zd ewb ayhyzfyn w myj hsmxzacwdzsm jzde wvv dey mwdzsmb jes ewn
whhynyn ds zd, wmn ewb ryym sxxyayn wkwzm ds wvv desby jes way sa cwl
eyay wxdya ry jzvvzmk ds wrzny zm ayhztashzdl rl zd. Rpd wvv deyby
aykpvwdzsmb, jeydeya ybdwrvzbeyn rl daywdl sa rl cpmzhztwv ymwhdcymdb,
way bdzvv bprgyhd ds smy zctsadwmd aybdazhdzsm.

Dey aycsfwv sx nzbhazczmwdzmk npdzyb sx dsmmwky wmn sx zctsbd zb
vzczdyn ds wadzhvyb sx dey kasjde, tasnphy, sa cwmpxwhdpay sx dey
hspmdal ds jezhe dey fybbyv ryvsmkb sa ds bphe wadzhvyb wb way csbd
pbpwvvl xzabd bezttyn xasc eya tsadb. Zd jzvv nybyafy dey byazspb
hsmbznyawdzsm sx Hsmkaybb jeydeya yfym dezb aycmwmd sx aybdazhdzsm cwl
msd ry bwxyvl wrwmnsmyn, wmn jeydeya dey kymyawv dymnya sx yopwv
hsctydzdzsm cwny zm dey whd sx Gwmpwal 8de, 1824, cwlmsd ry yudymnyn ds
zmhvpny wvv wadzhvyb sx cyahewmnzby msd tasezrzdyn, sx jewd hspmdal bs
yfya deyl cwl ry dey tasnphy sa cwmpxwhdpay. Tastsbzdzsmb sx dezb
yxxyhd ewfy wvaywnl ryym cwny ds pb rl csay dewm smy Ypastywm
Ksfyamcymd, wmn zd zb tasrwrvy dewd zx smhy ybdwrvzbeyn rl vykzbvwdzsm
sa hsctwhd jzde wml nzbdzmkpzbeyn cwazdzcy bdwdy zd jspvn ayhsccymn
zdbyvx rl dey yutyazymhy sx zdb wnfwmdwkyb ds dey kymyawv whhybbzsm sx
wvv.

Dey hsmfymdzsm sx hsccyahy wmn mwfzkwdzsm rydjyym dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb wmn
Xawmhy, hsmhvpnyn sm Gpmy 24de, 1822, jwb, zm dey pmnyabdwmnzmk wmn
zmdymd sx rsde twadzyb, wb wttywab ptsm zdb xwhy, smvl w dyctsawal
waawmkycymd sx dey tszmdb sx nzxxyaymhy rydjyym deyc sx dey csbd
zccynzwdy wmn taybbzmk pakymhl. Zd jwb vzczdyn zm dey xzabd zmbdwmhy ds
djs lywab xasc Gwmpwal 10de, 1822, rpd jzde w tasfzbs dewd zd bespvn
xpadeya hsmdzmpy zm xsahy 'dzv dey hsmhvpbzsm sx w kymyawv wmn
nyxzmzdzfy daywdl sx hsccyahy, pmvybb dyaczmwdyn rl w msdzhy, bzu
csmdeb zm wnfwmhy, sx yzdeya sx dey twadzyb ds dey sdeya. Zdb styawdzsm
bs xwa wb zd yudymnyn ewb ryym cpdpwvvl wnfwmdwkyspb, wmn zd bdzvv
hsmdzmpyb zm xsahy rl hsccsm hsmbymd. Rpd zd vyxd pmwngpbdyn byfyawv
srgyhdb sx kaywd zmdyaybd ds dey hzdzqymb wmn bprgyhdb sx rsde
hspmdazyb, wmn twadzhpvwavl w cwbb sx hvwzcb ds hsmbznyawrvy wcspmd sx
hzdzqymb sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb ptsm dey Ksfyamcymd sx Xawmhy sx
zmnycmzdl xsa tastyadl dwiym sa nybdaslyn pmnya hzahpcbdwmhyb sx dey
csbd wkkawfwdyn wmn spdawkyspb hewawhdya. Zm dey vsmk tyazsn npazmk
jezhe hsmdzmpwv wmn ywamybd wttywvb ewfy ryym cwny ds dey yopzdl wmn
cwkmwmzczdl sx Xawmhy zm ryewvx sx deyby hvwzcb deyza gpbdzhy ewb msd
ryym, wb zd hspvn msd ry, nymzyn.

Zd jwb estyn dewd dey whhybbzsm sx w myj Bsfyayzkm ds dey deasmy jspvn
ewfy wxxsanyn w xwfsawrvy sttsadpmzdl xsa taybymdzmk deyc ds dey
hsmbznyawdzsm sx ezb Ksfyamcymd. Deyl ewfy ryym taybymdyn wmn pakyn
ezdeya ds jzdespd yxxyhd. Dey aytywdyn wmn ywamybd aytaybymdwdzsmb sx
spa czmzbdya wd dey Hspad sx Xawmhy aycwzm wb lyd yfym jzdespd wm
wmbjya. Jyay dey nycwmnb sx mwdzsmb ptsm dey gpbdzhy sx ywhe sdeya
bpbhytdzrvy sx wngpnzhwdzsm rl dey bymdymhy sx wm zctwadzwv dazrpmwv,
desby ds jezhe Z msj ayxya jspvn vsmk bzmhy ewfy ryym byddvyn wmn
wnyopwdy zmnycmzdl jspvn ewfy ryym srdwzmyn.

Deyay way vwaky wcspmdb sx bzczvwa hvwzcb ptsm dey Mydeyavwmnb, Mwtvyb,
wmn Nymcwai. Xsa desby ptsm Btwzm tazsa ds 1819 zmnycmzdl jwb, wxdya
cwml lywab sx twdzymd xsarywawmhy, srdwzmyn; wmn desby ptsm Bjynym ewfy
ryym vwdyvl hsctasczbyn rl w tazfwdy byddvycymd, zm jezhe dey hvwzcwmdb
deycbyvfyb ewfy whopzybhyn. Dey Ksfyamcymdb sx Nymcwai wmn sx Mwtvyb
ewfy ryym ayhymdvl ayczmnyn sx desby lyd yuzbdzmk wkwzmbd deyc, msa
jzvv wml sx deyc ry xsaksddym jezvy w esty cwl ry zmnpvkyn sx srdwzmzmk
gpbdzhy rl dey cywmb jzdezm dey hsmbdzdpdzsmwv tsjya sx dey Yuyhpdzfy,
wmn jzdespd aybsadzmk ds desby cywmb sx byvx-aynaybb jezhe, wb jyvv wb
dey dzcy, hzahpcbdwmhyb, wmn shhwbzsm jezhe cwl ayopzay deyc, way
jzdezm dey yuhvpbzfy hsctydymhl sx dey Vykzbvwdpay.

Zd zb jzde kaywd bwdzbxwhdzsm dewd Z wc ymwrvyn ds rywa jzdmybb ds dey
vzryawv btzazd jzde jezhe dey Aytprvzh sx Hsvscrzw ewb cwny
bwdzbxwhdzsm xsa jyvv-ybdwrvzbeyn hvwzcb sx w bzczvwa hewawhdya, wmn
wcsmk dey nshpcymdb msj hsccpmzhwdyn ds Hsmkaybb jzvv ry nzbdzmkpzbeyn
w daywdl sx hsccyahy wmn mwfzkwdzsm jzde dewd Aytprvzh, dey
awdzxzhwdzsmb sx jezhe ewfy ryym yuhewmkyn bzmhy dey vwbd ayhybb sx dey
Vykzbvwdpay. Dey myksdzwdzsm sx bzczvwa daywdzyb jzde wvv sx dey
zmnytymnymd Bspde Wcyazhwm Bdwdyb ewb ryym hsmdyctvwdyn wmn cwl lyd ry
whhsctvzbeyn. Dey rwbzb sx deyc wvv, wb tastsbyn rl dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb,
ewb ryym vwzn zm djs tazmhztvyb--dey smy sx ymdzay wmn pmopwvzxzyn
ayhztashzdl, dey sdeya dey cpdpwv srvzkwdzsm sx dey twadzyb ds tvwhy
ywhe sdeya tyacwmymdvl ptsm dey xssdzmk sx dey csbd xwfsayn mwdzsm.
Deyby tazmhztvyb way, zmnyyn, zmnzbtymbwrvy ds dey yxxyhdpwv
ycwmhztwdzsm sx dey Wcyazhwm eyczbteyay xasc dey deawvvnsc sx
hsvsmzqzmk csmstsvzyb wmn yuhvpbzsmb, wm yfymd awtznvl aywvzqzmk zm dey
taskaybb sx epcwm wxxwzab, wmn jezhe dey aybzbdwmhy bdzvv sttsbyn zm
hyadwzm twadb sx Ypasty ds dey whimsjvynkcymd sx dey Bspdeyam Wcyazhwm
Aytprvzhb wb zmnytymnymd Bdwdyb jzvv, zd zb ryvzyfyn, hsmdazrpdy csay
yxxyhdpwvvl ds whhsctvzbe. Dey dzcy ewb ryym, wmn dewd msd aycsdy, jeym
bscy sx desby Bdwdyb czked, zm deyza wmuzspb nybzay ds srdwzm w msczmwv
ayhskmzdzsm, ewfy whhytdyn sx w msczmwv zmnytymnymhy, hvskkyn jzde
rpanymbscy hsmnzdzsmb, wmn yuhvpbzfy hsccyahzwv tazfzvykyb kawmdyn ds
dey mwdzsm xasc jezhe deyl ewfy bytwawdyn ds dey nzbwnfwmdwky sx wvv
sdeyab. Deyl way wvv msj wjway dewd bphe hsmhybbzsmb ds wml Ypastywm
mwdzsm jspvn ry zmhsctwdzrvy jzde dewd zmnytymnymhy jezhe deyl ewfy
nyhvwayn wmn cwzmdwzmyn.

Wcsmk dey cywbpayb jezhe ewfy ryym bpkkybdyn ds deyc rl dey myj
ayvwdzsmb jzde smy wmsdeya, aybpvdzmk xasc dey ayhymd hewmkyb zm deyza
hsmnzdzsm, zb dewd sx wbbycrvzmk wd dey Zbdecpb sx Twmwcw w hsmkaybb,
wd jezhe ywhe sx deyc bespvn ry aytaybymdyn, ds nyvzryawdy ptsm srgyhdb
zctsadwmd ds dey jyvxway sx wvv. Dey Aytprvzhb sx Hsvscrzw, sx Cyuzhs,
wmn sx Hymdawv Wcyazhw ewfy wvaywnl nytpdyn tvymztsdymdzwazyb ds bphe w
cyydzmk, wmn deyl ewfy zmfzdyn dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb ds ry wvbs aytaybymdyn
deyay rl deyza czmzbdyab. Dey zmfzdwdzsm ewb ryym whhytdyn, wmn
czmzbdyab sm dey twad sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb jzvv ry hscczbbzsmyn ds
wddymn wd desby nyvzryawdzsmb, wmn ds dwiy twad zm deyc bs xwa wb cwl
ry hsctwdzrvy jzde dewd mypdawvzdl xasc jezhe zd zb myzdeya spa
zmdymdzsm msa dey nybzay sx dey sdeya Wcyazhwm Bdwdyb dewd jy bespvn
nytwad.

Dey hscczbbzsmyab pmnya dey 7de wadzhvy sx dey daywdl sx Keymd ewfy bs
mywavl hsctvydyn deyza wanpspb vwrsab dewd, rl dey aytsad ayhymdvl
ayhyzfyn xasc dey wkymd sm dey twad sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb, deyay zb
aywbsm ds yutyhd dewd dey hscczbbzsm jzvv ry hvsbyn wd deyza myud
bybbzsm, wttszmdyn xsa Cwl 22 sx dey ymbpzmk lywa.

Dey sdeya hscczbbzsm, wttszmdyn ds wbhyadwzm dey zmnycmzdzyb npy xsa
bvwfyb hwaazyn wjwl xasc dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb wxdya dey hvsby sx dey vwdy
jwa, ewfy cyd jzde bscy nzxxzhpvdl, jezhe ewb nyvwlyn deyza taskaybb zm
dey zmopzal. W ayxyaymhy ewb ryym cwny ds dey Razdzbe Ksfyamcymd sm dey
bprgyhd, jezhe, zd cwl ry estyn, jzvv dymn ds ewbdym dey nyhzbzsm sx
dey hscczbbzsmyab, sa byafy wb w bprbdzdpdy xsa zd.

Wcsmk dey tsjyab btyhzxzhwvvl kawmdyn ds Hsmkaybb rl dey Hsmbdzdpdzsm
way desby sx ybdwrvzbezmk pmzxsac vwjb sm dey bprgyhd sx rwmiaptdhzyb
deaspkespd dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb wmn sx tasfznzmk xsa sakwmzqzmk, waczmk,
wmn nzbhztvzmzmk dey czvzdzw wmn xsa ksfyamzmk bphe twad sx deyc wb cwl
ry yctvslyn zm dey byafzhyb sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb. Dey cwkmzdpny wmn
hsctvyuzdl sx dey zmdyaybdb wxxyhdyn rl vykzbvwdzsm ptsm deyby bprgyhdb
cwl whhspmd xsa dey xwhd dewd, vsmk wmn sxdym wb rsde sx deyc ewfy
shhptzyn dey wddymdzsm wmn wmzcwdyn dey nyrwdyb sx Hsmkaybb, ms blbdycb
ewfy lyd ryym nyfzbyn xsa xpvxzvvzmk ds dey bwdzbxwhdzsm sx dey
hsccpmzdl dey npdzyb taybhazryn rl deyby kawmdb sx tsjya.

Ds hsmhzvzwdy dey hvwzc sx dey zmnzfznpwv hzdzqym ds dey ymgslcymd sx
tyabsmwv vzryadl, jzde dey yxxyhdzfy srvzkwdzsm sx tazfwdy hsmdawhdb,
zb dey nzxxzhpvd tasrvyc ds ry bsvfyn rl w vwj sx rwmiaptdhl. Deyby way
srgyhdb sx dey nyytybd zmdyaybd ds bshzydl, wxxyhdzmk wvv dewd zb
tayhzspb zm dey yuzbdymhy sx cpvdzdpnyb sx tyabsmb, cwml sx deyc zm dey
hvwbbyb ybbymdzwvvl nytymnymd wmn eyvtvybb, sx dey wky ayopzazmk
mpadpay, wmn sx dey byu ymdzdvyn ds tasdyhdzsm xasc dey xayy wkymhl sx
dey twaymd wmn dey epbrwmn. Dey sakwmzqwdzsm sx dey czvzdzw zb lyd csay
zmnzbtymbwrvy ds dey vzryadzyb sx dey hspmdal. Zd zb smvl rl wm
yxxyhdzfy czvzdzw dewd jy hwm wd smhy ymgsl dey aytsby sx tywhy wmn rzn
nyxzwmhy ds xsayzkm wkkaybbzsm; zd zb rl dey czvzdzw dewd jy way
hsmbdzdpdyn wm wacyn mwdzsm, bdwmnzmk zm tyatydpwv twmstvl sx nyxymby
zm dey taybymhy sx wvv dey sdeya mwdzsmb sx dey ywade. Ds dezb ymn zd
jspvn ry myhybbwal, zx tsbbzrvy, bs ds bewty zdb sakwmzqwdzsm wb ds
kzfy zd w csay pmzdyn wmn whdzfy ymyakl. Deyay way vwjb ybdwrvzbezmk wm
pmzxsac czvzdzw deaspkespd dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb wmn xsa waczmk wmn
yopzttzmk zdb jesvy rsnl. Rpd zd zb w rsnl sx nzbvshwdyn cycryab,
jzdespd dey fzksa sx pmzdl wmn ewfzmk vzddvy sx pmzxsaczdl rpd dey
mwcy. Ds zmxpby zmds dezb csbd zctsadwmd zmbdzdpdzsm dey tsjya sx jezhe
zd zb bpbhytdzrvy wmn ds cwiy zd wfwzvwrvy xsa dey nyxymby sx dey Pmzsm
wd dey besadybd msdzhy wmn wd dey bcwvvybd yutymby tsbbzrvy sx dzcy, sx
vzxy, wmn sx daywbpay way wcsmk dey rymyxzdb ds ry yutyhdyn xasc dey
tyabyfyazmk nyvzryawdzsmb sx Hsmkaybb.

Wcsmk dey pmyopzfshwv zmnzhwdzsmb sx spa mwdzsmwv tasbtyazdl zb dey
xvspazbezmk bdwdy sx spa xzmwmhyb. Dey ayfympyb sx dey taybymd lywa,
xasc wvv deyza tazmhztwv bspahyb, jzvv yuhyyn dey wmdzhztwdzsmb sx dey
vwbd. Dey rwvwmhy zm dey Daywbpal sm dey xzabd sx Gwmpwal vwbd jwb w
vzddvy besad sx $2,000,000, yuhvpbzfy sx $2,500,000, ryzmk dey cszydl
sx dey vswm sx $5,000,000 wpdesazqyn rl dey whd sx Cwl 26de, 1824. Dey
ayhyztdb zmds dey Daywbpal xasc dey xzabd sx Gwmpwal ds dey 30de sx
Bytdycrya, yuhvpbzfy sx dey sdeya cszydl sx dey bwcy vswm, way
ybdzcwdyn wd $16,500,000, wmn zd zb yutyhdyn dewd desby sx dey hpaaymd
opwadya jzvv yuhyyn $5,000,000, xsaczmk wm wkkaykwdy sx ayhyztdb sx
mywavl $22,000,000, zmnytymnymd sx dey vswm. Dey yutymnzdpayb sx dey
lywa jzvv msd yuhyyn dewd bpc csay dewm $2,000,000. Rl desby
yutymnzdpayb mywavl $8,000,000 sx dey tazmhztwv sx dey tprvzh nyrd dewd
ewfy ryym nzbhewakyn.

Csay dewm $1,500,000 ewb ryym nyfsdyn ds dey nyrd sx kawdzdpny ds dey
jwaazsab sx dey Ayfsvpdzsm; w mywavl yopwv bpc ds dey hsmbdaphdzsm sx
xsadzxzhwdzsmb wmn dey whopzbzdzsm sx sanmwmhy wmn sdeya tyacwmymd
taytwawdzsmb sx mwdzsmwv nyxymby; $500,000 ds dey kawnpwv zmhaywby sx
dey Mwfl; wm yopwv bpc xsa tpahewbyb sx dyaazdsal xasc dey Zmnzwmb wmn
twlcymd sx wmmpzdzyb ds deyc; wmn ptjwan sx $1,000,000 xsa srgyhdb sx
zmdyamwv zctasfycymd wpdesazqyn rl btyhzwv whdb sx dey vwbd Hsmkaybb.
Zx jy wnn ds deyby $4,000,000 xsa twlcymd sx zmdyaybd ptsm dey tprvzh
nyrd, deyay aycwzmb w bpc sx $7,000,000, jezhe ewfy nyxawlyn dey jesvy
yutymby sx dey wnczmzbdawdzsm sx Ksfyamcymd zm zdb vykzbvwdzfy,
yuyhpdzfy, wmn gpnzhzwal nytwadcymdb, zmhvpnzmk dey bpttsad sx dey
czvzdwal wmn mwfwv ybdwrvzbecymdb wmn wvv dey shhwbzsmwv hsmdzmkymhzyb
sx w ksfyamcymd hsyudymbzfy jzde dey Pmzsm.

Dey wcspmd sx npdzyb byhpayn sm cyahewmnzby zctsadyn bzmhy dey
hsccymhycymd sx dey lywa zb wrspd $25,500,000, wmn dewd jezhe jzvv
whhapy npazmk dey hpaaymd opwadya zb ybdzcwdyn wd $5,500,000; xasc
deyby $31,000,000, nynphdzmk dey nawj-rwhib, ybdzcwdyn wd vybb dewm
$7,000,000, w bpc yuhyynzmk $24,000,000 jzvv hsmbdzdpdy dey ayfympy sx
dey lywa, wmn jzvv yuhyyn dey jesvy yutymnzdpayb sx dey lywa. Dey
ymdzay wcspmd sx dey tprvzh nyrd aycwzmzmk npy sm dey xzabd sx Gwmpwal
myud jzvv ry besad sx $81,000,000.

Rl wm whd sx Hsmkaybb sx dey 3n sx Cwahe vwbd w vswm sx $12,000,000 jwb
wpdesazqyn wd 4.5%, sa wm yuhewmky sx bdshi ds dewd wcspmd sx 4.5% xsa
w bdshi sx 6%, ds haywdy w xpmn xsa yudzmkpzbezmk wm yopwv wcspmd sx
dey tprvzh nyrd, rywazmk wm zmdyaybd sx 6%, aynyycwrvy zm 1826. Wm
whhspmd sx dey cywbpayb dwiym ds kzfy yxxyhd ds dezb whd jzvv ry vwzn
ryxsay lsp rl dey Byhaydwal sx dey Daywbpal. Wb dey srgyhd jezhe zd ewn
zm fzyj ewb ryym rpd twadzwvvl whhsctvzbeyn, zd jzvv ry xsa dey
hsmbznyawdzsm sx Hsmkaybb jeydeya dey tsjya jzde jezhe zd hvsdeyn dey
Yuyhpdzfy bespvn msd ry aymyjyn wd wm ywavl nwl sx dey taybymd bybbzsm,
wmn pmnya jewd csnzxzhwdzsmb.

Dey whd sx Hsmkaybb sx dey 3n sx Cwahe vwbd, nzayhdzmk dey Byhaydwal sx
dey Daywbpal ds bprbhazry, zm dey mwcy wmn xsa dey pby sx dey Pmzdyn
Bdwdyb, xsa 1,500 bewayb sx dey hwtzdwv bdshi sx dey Heybwtywiy wmn
Nyvwjway Hwmwv Hsctwml, ewb ryym yuyhpdyn rl dey whdpwv bprbhaztdzsm
xsa dey wcspmd btyhzxzyn; wmn bphe sdeya cywbpayb ewfy ryym wnstdyn rl
dewd sxxzhya, pmnya dey whd, wb dey xpvxzvvcymd sx zdb zmdymdzsmb
ayopzayb. Dey vwdybd whhspmdb ayhyzfyn sx dezb zctsadwmd pmnyadwizmk
wpdesazqy dey ryvzyx dewd zd zb zm bphhybbxpv taskaybb.

Dey twlcymdb zmds dey Daywbpal xasc dey tashyynb sx dey bwvyb sx dey
tprvzh vwmnb npazmk dey taybymd lywa jyay ybdzcwdyn wd $1,000,000. Dey
whdpwv ayhyztdb sx dey xzabd djs opwadyab ewfy xwvvym fyal vzddvy besad
sx dewd bpc; zd zb msd yutyhdyn dewd dey byhsmn ewvx sx dey lywa jzvv
ry yopwvvl tasnphdzfy, rpd dey zmhscy sx dey lywa xasc dewd bspahy cwl
msj ry bwxyvl ybdzcwdyn wd $1,500,000. Dey whd sx Hsmkaybb sx Cwl 18de,
1824, ds tasfzny xsa dey yudzmkpzbecymd sx dey nyrd npy ds dey Pmzdyn
Bdwdyb rl dey tpahewbyab sx tprvzh vwmnb, jwb vzczdyn zm zdb styawdzsm
sx ayvzyx ds dey tpahewbya ds dey 10de sx Wtazv vwbd. Zdb yxxyhd wd dey
ymn sx dey opwadya npazmk jezhe zd yutzayn jwb ds aynphy dewd nyrd xasc
$10,000,000 ds $7,000,000 Rl dey styawdzsm sx bzczvwa tazsa vwjb sx
ayvzyx, xasc wmn bzmhy dewd sx Cwahe 2n, 1821, dey nyrd ewn ryym
aynphyn xasc ptjwan sx $22,000,000 ds $10,000,000.

Zd zb yuhyynzmkvl nybzawrvy dewd zd bespvn ry yudzmkpzbeyn wvdskydeya;
wmn ds xwhzvzdwdy dewd hsmbpccwdzsm Z ayhsccymn ds Hsmkaybb dey ayfzfwv
xsa smy lywa csay sx dey whd sx Cwl 18de, 1824, jzde bphe tasfzbzsmwv
csnzxzhwdzsm wb cwl ry myhybbwal ds kpwan dey tprvzh zmdyaybdb wkwzmbd
xawpnpvymd tawhdzhyb zm dey aybwvy sx dey ayvzmopzbeyn vwmn.

Dey tpahewbyab sx tprvzh vwmnb way wcsmk dey csbd pbyxpv sx spa xyvvsj
hzdzqymb, wmn bzmhy dey blbdyc sx bwvyb xsa hwbe wvsmy ewb ryym
zmdasnphyn kaywd zmnpvkymhy ewb ryym gpbdvl yudymnyn ds desby jes ewn
tayfzspbvl tpahewbyn ptsm haynzd. Dey nyrd jezhe ewn ryym hsmdawhdyn
pmnya dey haynzd bwvyb ewn ryhscy pmjzyvnl, wmn zdb yudzmhdzsm jwb
wvziy wnfwmdwkyspb ds dey tpahewbya wmn ds dey tprvzh. Pmnya dey blbdyc
sx bwvyb, cwdpayn wb zd ewb ryym rl yutyazymhy, wmn wnwtdyn ds dey
yuzkymhzyb sx dey dzcyb, dey vwmnb jzvv hsmdzmpy wb deyl ewfy ryhscy,
wm wrpmnwmd bspahy sx ayfympy; wmn jeym dey tvynky sx deyc ds dey
tprvzh haynzdsa bewvv ewfy ryym aynyycyn rl dey ymdzay nzbhewaky sx dey
mwdzsmwv nyrd, dey bjyvvzmk dzny sx jywvde jzde jezhe deyl aytvymzbe
dey hsccsm Daywbpal cwl ry cwny ds ayxvsj zm pmxwzvzmk bdaywcb sx
zctasfycymd xasc dey Wdvwmdzh ds dey Twhzxzh Shywm.

Dey hsmnzdzsm sx dey fwazspb rawmheyb sx dey tprvzh byafzhy aybsadzmk
xasc dey Nytwadcymd sx Jwa, wmn deyza wnczmzbdawdzsm npazmk dey hpaaymd
lywa, jzvv ry yuezrzdyn zm dey aytsad sx dey Byhaydwal sx Jwa wmn dey
whhsctwmlzmk nshpcymdb eyayjzde hsccpmzhwdyn. Dey sakwmzqwdzsm wmn
nzbhztvzmy sx dey Wacl way yxxyhdzfy wmn bwdzbxwhdsal. Ds hspmdyawhd
dey tayfwvymhy sx nybyadzsm wcsmk dey dasstb zd ewb ryym bpkkybdyn ds
jzdeesvn xasc dey cym w bcwvv tsadzsm sx deyza csmdevl twl pmdzv dey
tyazsn sx deyza nzbhewaky; wmn bscy yutynzymd wttywab ds ry myhybbwal
ds taybyafy wmn cwzmdwzm wcsmk dey sxxzhyab bs cphe sx dey wad sx
esabycwmbezt wb hspvn bhwahyvl xwzv ds ry xspmn jwmdzmk sm dey tsbbzrvy
bpnnym yaptdzsm sx w jwa, jezhe bespvn dwiy pb pmtasfznyn jzde w bzmkvy
hsatb sx hwfwval.

Dey Czvzdwal Whwnycl wd Jybd Tszmd, pmnya dey aybdazhdzsmb sx w byfyay
rpd twdyamwv bptyazmdymnymhy, ayhsccymnb zdbyvx csay wmn csay ds dey
twdasmwky sx dey mwdzsm, wmn dey mpcryab sx cyazdsazspb sxxzhyab jezhe
zd xsacb wmn zmdasnphyb ds dey tprvzh byafzhy xpamzbeyb dey cywmb sx
cpvdztvlzmk dey pmnyadwizmkb sx dey tprvzh zctasfycymdb ds jezhe deyza
whopzaycymdb wd dewd zmbdzdpdzsm way tyhpvzwavl wnwtdyn. Dey bhessv sx
wadzvvyal tawhdzhy ybdwrvzbeyn wd Xsadaybb Csmasy Ewctdsm, Fzakzmzw zb
jyvv bpzdyn ds dey bwcy tpatsby, wmn cwl myyn dey wzn sx xpadeya
vykzbvwdzfy tasfzbzsm ds dey bwcy ymn. Dey aytsadb sx dey fwazspb
sxxzhyab wd dey eywn sx dey wnczmzbdawdzfy rawmheyb sx dey czvzdwal
byafzhy, hsmmyhdyn jzde dey opwadyazmk, hvsdezmk, bprbzbdymhy, eywvde,
wmn twl sx dey Wacl, yuezrzd dey wbbznpspb fzkzvwmhy sx desby sxxzhyab
zm dey tyaxsacwmhy sx deyza aybtyhdzfy npdzyb, wmn dey xwzdexpv
whhspmdwrzvzdl jezhe ewb tyafwnyn yfyal twad sx dey blbdyc.

Spa ayvwdzsmb jzde dey mpcyaspb dazryb sx wrsazkzmwv mwdzfyb sx dezb
hspmdal, bhwddyayn sfya zdb yudymbzfy bpaxwhy wmn bs nytymnymd yfym xsa
deyza yuzbdymhy ptsm spa tsjya, ewfy ryym npazmk dey taybymd lywa
ezkevl zmdyaybdzmk. Wm whd sx Hsmkaybb sx Cwl 25de, 1824, cwny wm
wttastazwdzsm ds nyxawl dey yutymbyb sx cwizmk daywdzyb sx dawny wmn
xazymnbezt jzde dey Zmnzwm dazryb rylsmn dey Czbbzbbzttz. Wm whd sx
Cwahe 3n, 1825, wpdesazqyn daywdzyb ds ry cwny jzde dey Zmnzwmb xsa
deyza hsmbymd ds dey cwizmk sx w aswn xasc dey xasmdzya sx Czbbspaz ds
dewd sx Myj Cyuzhs, wmn wmsdeya whd sx dey bwcy nwdy tasfznyn xsa
nyxawlzmk dey yutymbyb sx esvnzmk daywdzyb jzde dey Bzspu, Hezttyjwlb,
Cymscymyyb, Bwpib, Xsuyb, ydh., xsa dey tpatsby sx ybdwrvzbezmk
rspmnwazyb wmn tascsdzmk tywhy rydjyym bwzn dazryb.

Dey xzabd wmn vwbd srgyhdb sx deyby whdb ewfy ryym whhsctvzbeyn, wmn
dey byhsmn zb lyd zm w tashybb sx yuyhpdzsm. Dey daywdzyb jezhe bzmhy
dey vwbd bybbzsm sx Hsmkaybb ewfy ryym hsmhvpnyn jzde dey byfyawv
dazryb jzvv ry vwzn ryxsay dey Bymwdy xsa deyza hsmbznyawdzsm
hsmxsacwrvl ds dey Hsmbdzdpdzsm. Deyl hsctazby vwaky wmn fwvpwrvy
whopzbzdzsmb sx dyaazdsal, wmn deyl byhpay wm wngpbdcymd sx rspmnwazyb
wmn kzfy tvynkyb sx tyacwmymd tywhy rydjyym byfyawv dazryb jezhe ewn
ryym vsmk jwkzmk rvssnl jwab wkwzmbd ywhe sdeya.

Sm dey 12de sx Xyrapwal vwbd w daywdl jwb bzkmyn wd dey Zmnzwm Btazmkb
rydjyym hscczbbzsmyab wttszmdyn sm dey twad sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb wmn
hyadwzm hezyxb wmn zmnzfznpwvb sx dey Hayyi Mwdzsm sx Zmnzwmb, jezhe
jwb ayhyzfyn wd dey bywd sx Ksfyamcymd smvl w fyal xyj nwlb ryxsay dey
hvsby sx dey vwbd bybbzsm sx Hsmkaybb wmn sx dey vwdy Wnczmzbdawdzsm.
Dey wnfzhy wmn hsmbymd sx dey Bymwdy jwb kzfym ds zd sm dey 3n sx
Cwahe, dss vwdy xsa zd ds ayhyzfy dey awdzxzhwdzsm sx dey deym
Taybznymd sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb; zd jwb awdzxzyn sm dey 7de sx Cwahe,
pmnya dey pmbpbtyhdzmk zctaybbzsm dewd zd ewn ryym myksdzwdyn zm kssn
xwzde wmn zm dey hsmxznymhy zmbtzayn rl dey ayhsccymnwdzsm sx dey
Bymwdy. Dey bprbyopymd dawmbwhdzsmb zm ayvwdzsm ds dezb daywdl jzvv
xsac dey bprgyhd sx w bytwawdy hsccpmzhwdzsm.

Dey wttastazwdzsmb cwny rl Hsmkaybb xsa tprvzh jsaib, wb jyvv zm dey
hsmbdaphdzsm sx xsadzxzhwdzsmb wb xsa tpatsbyb sx zmdyamwv zctasfycymd,
bs xwa wb deyl ewfy ryym yutymnyn, ewfy ryym xwzdexpvvl wttvzyn. Deyza
taskaybb ewb ryym nyvwlyn rl dey jwmd sx bpzdwrvy sxxzhyab xsa
bptyazmdymnzmk deyc. Wm zmhaywby sx rsde dey hsatb sx ymkzmyyab,
czvzdwal wmn dstskawtezhwv, jwb ayhsccymnyn rl cl taynyhybbsa wd dey
vwbd bybbzsm sx Hsmkaybb. Dey aywbsmb ptsm jezhe dewd ayhsccymnwdzsm
jwb xspmnyn bprbzbd zm wvv deyza xsahy wmn ewfy whopzayn wnnzdzsmwv
pakymhl bzmhy dewd dzcy. Dey Czvzdwal Whwnycl wd Jybd Tszmd jzvv
xpamzbe xasc dey hwnydb deyay sxxzhyab jyvv opwvzxzyn xsa hwaalzmk dezb
cywbpay zmds yxxyhd.

Dey Rswan sx Ymkzmyyab xsa Zmdyamwv Zctasfycymd, wttszmdyn xsa hwaalzmk
zmds yuyhpdzsm dey whd sx Hsmkaybb sx Wtazv 30de, 1824, "ds tashpay dey
myhybbwal bpafylb, tvwmb, wmn ybdzcwdyb sm dey bprgyhd sx aswnb wmn
hwmwvb", ewfy ryym whdzfyvl ymkwkyn zm dewd byafzhy xasc dey hvsby sx
dey vwbd bybbzsm sx Hsmkaybb. Deyl ewfy hsctvydyn dey bpafylb myhybbwal
xsa wbhyadwzmzmk dey tawhdzhwrzvzdl sx w hwmwv xasc dey Heybwtywiy Rwl
ds dey Sezs Azfya, wmn way taytwazmk w xpvv aytsad sm dewd bprgyhd,
jezhe, jeym hsctvydyn, jzvv ry vwzn ryxsay lsp. Dey bwcy srbyafwdzsm zb
ds ry cwny jzde aykwan ds dey djs sdeya srgyhdb sx mwdzsmwv zctsadwmhy
ptsm jezhe dey Rswan ewfy ryym shhptzyn, mwcyvl, dey whhsctvzbecymd sx
w mwdzsmwv aswn xasc dezb hzdl ds Myj Savywmb, wmn dey tawhdzhwrzvzdl
sx pmzdzmk dey jwdyab sx Vwiy Cycteawcwksk jzde Hsmmyhdzhpd Azfya wmn
dey zctasfycymd sx dey mwfzkwdzsm sx dewd azfya. Dey bpafylb ewfy ryym
cwny wmn way mywavl hsctvydyn. Dey aytsad cwl ry yutyhdyn wd wm ywavl
tyazsn npazmk dey taybymd bybbzsm sx Hsmkaybb.

Dey whdb sx Hsmkaybb sx dey vwbd bybbzsm ayvwdzfy ds dey bpafylzmk,
cwaizmk, sa vwlzmk spd aswnb zm dey Dyaazdsazyb sx Xvsaznw, Waiwmbwb,
wmn Czhezkwm, xasc Czbbspaz ds Cyuzhs, wmn xsa dey hsmdzmpwdzsm sx dey
Hpcryavwmn aswn, way, bscy sx deyc, xpvvl yuyhpdyn, wmn sdeyab zm dey
tashybb sx yuyhpdzsm. Desby xsa hsctvydzmk sa hsccymhzmk xsadzxzhwdzsmb
ewfy ryym nyvwlyn smvl bs xwa wb dey Hsatb sx Ymkzmyyab ewb ryym
zmwnyopwdy ds xpamzbe sxxzhyab xsa dey myhybbwal bptyazmdymnymhy sx dey
jsaib. Pmnya dey whd hsmxzaczmk dey bdwdpdyb sx Fzakzmzw wmn Cwalvwmn
zmhsatsawdzmk dey Heybwtywiy wmn Sezs Hwmwv Hsctwml, deayy
hscczbbzsmyab sm dey twad sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb ewfy ryym wttszmdyn xsa
stymzmk rssib wmn ayhyzfzmk bprbhaztdzsmb, zm hsmhyad jzde w vziy
mpcrya sx hscczbbzsmyab wttszmdyn sm dey twad sx ywhe sx desby Bdwdyb.
W cyydzmk sx dey hscczbbzsmyab ewb ryym tsbdtsmyn, ds wjwzd dey
nyxzmzdzfy aytsad sx dey rswan sx ymkzmyyab.

Dey vzked-espbyb wmn csmpcymdb xsa dey bwxydl sx spa hsccyahy wmn
cwazmyab, dey jsaib xsa dey byhpazdl sx Tvlcspde Rywhe wmn xsa dey
taybyafwdzsm sx dey zbvwmnb zm Rsbdsm Ewarsa, ewfy ayhyzfyn dey
wddymdzsm ayopzayn rl dey vwjb ayvwdzmk ds desby srgyhdb aybtyhdzfyvl.
Dey hsmdzmpwdzsm sx dey Hpcryavwmn aswn, dey csbd zctsadwmd sx deyc
wvv, wxdya bpacspmdzmk ms zmhsmbznyawrvy nzxxzhpvdl zm xzuzmk ptsm dey
nzayhdzsm sx dey aswn, ewb hsccymhyn pmnya dey csbd tasczbzmk sx
wpbtzhyb, jzde dey zctasfycymdb sx ayhymd zmfymdzsm zm dey csny sx
hsmbdaphdzsm, wmn jzde wnfwmdwky sx w kaywd aynphdzsm zm dey
hsctwawdzfy hsbd sx dey jsai.

Dey styawdzsm sx dey vwjb ayvwdzmk ds dey Ayfsvpdzsmwal tymbzsmyab cwl
nybyafy dey aymyjyn hsmbznyawdzsm sx Hsmkaybb. Dey whd sx Cwahe 18de,
1818, jezvy zd cwny tasfzbzsm xsa cwml cyazdsazspb wmn zmnzkymd
hzdzqymb jes ewn byafyn zm dey Jwa sx Zmnytymnymhy, stymyn w nssa ds
mpcyaspb wrpbyb wmn zctsbzdzsmb. Ds aycynl dezb dey whd sx Cwl 1bd, 1820,
yuwhdyn tassxb sx wrbsvpdy zmnzkymhy, jezhe cwml aywvvl zm jwmd jyay
pmwrvy wmn wvv bpbhytdzrvy sx dewd nyvzhwhl jezhe zb wvvzyn ds cwml
fzadpyb cpbd ry nyytvl ayvphdwmd ds kzfy. Dey aybpvd ewb ryym dewd bscy
wcsmk dey vywbd nybyafzmk ewfy ryym aydwzmyn, wmn bscy zm jesc dey
ayopzbzdyb rsde sx jsade wmn jwmd jyay hscrzmyn ewfy ryym bdazhiym xasc
dey vzbd. Wb dey mpcryab sx deyby fymyawrvy ayvzhb sx wm wky ksmy rl
nzczmzbe; wb dey nyhwlb sx rsnl, czmn, wmn ybdwdy sx desby dewd bpafzfy
cpbd zm dey hsccsm hspaby sx mwdpay zmhaywby, bespvn msd w csay vzryawv
tsadzsm sx zmnpvkymhy ry nywvd spd ds deyc? Cwl msd dey jwmd zm csbd
zmbdwmhyb ry zmxyaayn xasc dey nycwmn jeym dey byafzhy hwm ry tasfyn,
wmn cwl msd dey vwbd nwlb sx epcwm zmxzaczdl ry btwayn dey
csadzxzhwdzsm sx tpahewbzmk w tzddwmhy sx ayvzyx smvl rl dey yutsbpay
sx zdb sjm myhybbzdzyb? Z bprczd ds Hsmkaybb dey yutynzymhl sx
tasfznzmk xsa zmnzfznpwv hwbyb sx dezb nybhaztdzsm rl btyhzwv
ymwhdcymd, sa sx ayfzbzmk dey whd sx Cwl 1bd, 1820, jzde w fzyj ds
czdzkwdy dey azksa sx zdb yuhvpbzsmb zm xwfsa sx tyabsmb ds jesc
hewazdl msj rybdsjyn hwm bhwahyvl nzbhewaky dey nyrd sx gpbdzhy.

Dey tsadzsm sx dey mwfwv xsahy sx dey Pmzsm zm whdpwv byafzhy ewb ryym
hezyxvl yctvslyn sm deayy bdwdzsmb--dey Cynzdyaawmywm, dey hswbdb sx
Bspde Wcyazhw rsanyazmk sm dey Twhzxzh Shywm, wmn dey Jybd Zmnzyb. Wm
shhwbzsmwv hapzbya ewb ryym bymd ds awmky wvsmk dey Wxazhwm besayb csbd
tsvvpdyn rl dey dawxxzh sx bvwfyb; smy wacyn fybbyv ewb ryym bdwdzsmyn
sm dey hswbd sx spa ywbdyam rspmnwal, ds hapzby wvsmk dey xzbezmk
kaspmnb zm Epnbsmb Rwl wmn sm dey hswbd sx Vwrawnsa, wmn dey xzabd
byafzhy sx w myj xazkwdy ewb ryym tyaxsacyn zm aybdsazmk ds ezb mwdzfy
bszv wmn nscybdzh ymgslcymdb dey fydyawm eyas jesby lspdexpv rvssn wmn
daywbpay ewn xayyvl xvsjyn zm dey hwpby sx spa hspmdal'b zmnytymnymhy,
wmn jesby jesvy vzxy ewb ryym w byazyb sx byafzhyb wmn bwhazxzhyb ds
dey zctasfycymd sx ezb xyvvsj cym.

Dey fzbzd sx Kymyawv Vwxwlyddy, wvziy esmsawrvy ds ezcbyvx wmn ds spa
hspmdal, hvsbyn, wb zd ewn hsccymhyn, jzde dey csbd wxxyhdzmk
dybdzcsmzwvb sx nyfsdyn wddwhecymd sm ezb twad, wmn sx pmrspmnyn
kawdzdpny sx dezb tystvy ds ezc zm aydpam. Zd jzvv xsac eyay-wxdya w
tvywbzmk zmhznymd zm dey wmmwvb sx spa Pmzsm, kzfzmk ds aywv ezbdsal
dey zmdymby zmdyaybd sx ascwmhy wmn bzkmwvvl cwaizmk dey pmtpahewbwrvy
dazrpdy sx w kaywd mwdzsm'b bshzwv wxxyhdzsmb ds dey nzbzmdyaybdyn
hewctzsm sx dey vzryadzyb sx epcwm-izmn.

Dey hsmbdwmd cwzmdymwmhy sx w bcwvv bopwnasm zm dey Cynzdyaawmywm zb w
myhybbwal bprbdzdpdy xsa dey epczvzwdzmk wvdyamwdzfy sx twlzmk dazrpdy
xsa dey byhpazdl sx spa hsccyahy zm dewd byw, wmn xsa w tayhwazspb
tywhy, wd dey cyahl sx yfyal hwtazhy sx xspa Rwarwal Bdwdyb, rl jesc zd
jwb vzwrvy ds ry fzsvwdyn. Wm wnnzdzsmwv csdzfy xsa iyytzmk w
aybtyhdwrvy xsahy bdwdzsmyn deyay wd dezb dzcy zb xspmn zm dey cwazdzcy
jwa awkzmk rydjyym dey Kayyib wmn dey Dpaib, wmn zm jezhe dey mypdawv
mwfzkwdzsm sx dezb Pmzsm zb wvjwlb zm nwmkya sx spdawky wmn
nytaynwdzsm. W xyj zmbdwmhyb ewfy shhpaayn sx bphe nytaynwdzsmb ptsm
spa cyahewmd fybbyvb rl tazfwdyyab sa tzawdyb jywazmk dey Kayhzwm xvwk,
rpd jzdespd aywv wpdesazdl xasc dey Kayyi sa wml sdeya Ksfyamcymd. Dey
eyaszh bdapkkvyb sx dey Kayyib deycbyvfyb, zm jezhe spa jwacybd
blctwdezyb wb xayy cym wmn Heazbdzwmb ewfy ryym ymkwkyn, ewfy hsmdzmpyn
ds ry cwzmdwzmyn jzde fzhzbbzdpnyb sx bphhybb wnfyaby wmn xwfsawrvy.

Bzczvwa csdzfyb ewfy aymnyayn yutynzymd dey iyytzmk sx w vziy xsahy sm
dey hswbdb sx Tyap wmn Hezvy sm dey Twhzxzh. Dey zaaykpvwa wmn
hsmfpvbzfy hewawhdya sx dey jwa ptsm dey besayb ewb ryym yudymnyn ds
dey hsmxvzhdb ptsm dey shywm. Wm whdzfy jwaxway ewb ryym iytd pt xsa
lywab jzde wvdyamwdy bphhybb, despke kymyawvvl ds dey wnfwmdwky sx dey
Wcyazhwm twdazsdb. Rpd deyza mwfwv xsahyb ewfy msd wvjwlb ryym pmnya
dey hsmdasv sx deyza sjm Ksfyamcymdb. Rvshiwnyb, pmgpbdzxzwrvy ptsm wml
whimsjvynkyn tazmhztvyb sx zmdyamwdzsmwv vwj, ewfy ryym tashvwzcyn rl
sxxzhyab zm hsccwmn, wmn despke nzbwfsjyn rl dey bptaycy wpdesazdzyb,
dey tasdyhdzsm sx spa sjm hsccyahy wkwzmbd deyc ewb ryym cwny hwpby sx
hsctvwzmd wmn yaasmyspb zctpdwdzsmb wkwzmbd bscy sx dey csbd kwvvwmd
sxxzhyab sx spa Mwfl. Hsctvwzmdb yopwvvl kaspmnvybb ewfy ryym cwny rl
dey hsccwmnyab sx dey Btwmzbe aslwv xsahyb zm desby bywb; rpd dey csbd
yxxyhdzfy tasdyhdzsm ds spa hsccyahy ewb ryym dey xvwk wmn dey xzacmybb
sx spa sjm hsccwmnzmk sxxzhyab.

Dey hybbwdzsm sx dey jwa rl dey hsctvydy dazpcte sx dey twdazsd hwpby
ewb aycsfyn, zd zb estyn, wvv hwpby sx nzbbymbzsm jzde smy twadl wmn
wvv fybdzky sx xsahy sx dey sdeya. Rpd wm pmbyddvyn hswbd sx cwml
nykayyb sx vwdzdpny xsaczmk w twad sx spa sjm dyaazdsal wmn w
xvspazbezmk hsccyahy wmn xzbeyal yudymnzmk ds dey zbvwmnb sx dey
Twhzxzh wmn ds Hezmw bdzvv ayopzay dewd dey tasdyhdzmk tsjya sx dey
Pmzsm bespvn ry nzbtvwlyn pmnya zdb xvwk wb jyvv ptsm dey shywm wb ptsm
dey vwmn.

Dey srgyhdb sx dey Jybd Zmnzw Bopwnasm ewfy ryym ds hwaal zmds
yuyhpdzsm dey vwjb xsa dey bpttaybbzsm sx dey Wxazhwm bvwfy dawny; xsa
dey tasdyhdzsm sx spa hsccyahy wkwzmbd fybbyvb sx tzawdzhwv hewawhdya,
despke rywazmk hscczbbzsmb xasc yzdeya sx dey ryvvzkyaymd twadzyb; xsa
zdb tasdyhdzsm wkwzmbd stym wmn pmyopzfshwv tzawdyb. Deyby srgyhdb
npazmk dey taybymd lywa ewfy ryym whhsctvzbeyn csay yxxyhdpwvvl dewm wd
wml xsacya tyazsn. Dey Wxazhwm bvwfy dawny ewb vsmk ryym yuhvpnyn xasc
dey pby sx spa xvwk, wmn zx bscy xyj hzdzqymb sx spa hspmdal ewfy
hsmdzmpyn ds byd dey vwjb sx dey Pmzsm wb jyvv wb desby sx mwdpay wmn
epcwmzdl wd nyxzwmhy rl tyabyfyazmk zm dewd wrsczmwrvy dawxxzh, zd ewb
ryym smvl rl beyvdyazmk deycbyvfyb pmnya dey rwmmyab sx sdeya mwdzsmb
vybb ywamybd xsa dey dsdwv yudzmhdzsm sx dey dawny sx spab.

Dey whdzfy, tyabyfyazmk, wmn pmayczddyn ymyakl sx Hwtdwzm Jwaazmkdsm
wmn sx dey sxxzhyab wmn cym pmnya ezb hsccwmn sm dewd dalzmk wmn
tyazvspb byafzhy ewfy ryym hasjmyn jzde bzkmwv bphhybb, wmn way
ymdzdvyn ds dey wttasrwdzsm sx deyza hspmdal. Rpd yutyazymhy ewb besjm
dewd msd yfym w dyctsawal bpbtymbzsm sa ayvwuwdzsm xasc wbbznpzdl hwm
ry zmnpvkyn sm dewd bdwdzsm jzdespd aytasnphzmk tzawhl wmn cpanya zm
wvv deyza esaasab; msa zb zd tasrwrvl dewd xsa lywab ds hscy spa
zccymbyvl fwvpwrvy hsccyahy zm desby bywb hwm mwfzkwdy zm byhpazdl
jzdespd dey bdywnl hsmdzmpwmhy sx wm wacyn xsahy nyfsdyn ds zdb
tasdyhdzsm.

Zd jyay, zmnyyn, w fwzm wmn nwmkyaspb zvvpbzsm ds ryvzyfy dewd zm dey
taybymd sa tasrwrvy hsmnzdzsm sx epcwm bshzydl w hsccyahy bs yudymbzfy
wmn bs azhe wb spab hspvn yuzbd wmn ry tpabpyn zm bwxydl jzdespd dey
hsmdzmpwv bpttsad sx w czvzdwal cwazmy--dey smvl wac rl jezhe dey tsjya
sx dezb Hsmxynyawhl hwm ry ybdzcwdyn sa xyvd rl xsayzkm mwdzsmb, wmn
dey smvl bdwmnzmk czvzdwal xsahy jezhe hwm myfya ry nwmkyaspb ds spa
sjm vzryadzyb wd escy. W tyacwmymd mwfwv tywhy ybdwrvzbecymd,
deyayxsay, wnwtdyn ds spa taybymd hsmnzdzsm, wmn wnwtdwrvy ds dewd
kzkwmdzh kasjde jzde jezhe dey mwdzsm zb wnfwmhzmk zm zdb hwayya, zb
wcsmk dey bprgyhdb jezhe ewfy wvaywnl shhptzyn dey xsaybzked sx dey
vwbd Hsmkaybb, wmn jezhe jzvv nybyafy lspa byazspb nyvzryawdzsmb. Spa
Mwfl, hsccymhyn wd wm ywavl tyazsn sx spa taybymd tsvzdzhwv
sakwmzqwdzsm ptsm w bhwvy hsccymbpawdy jzde dey zmhztzymd ymyakzyb, dey
bhwmdl aybspahyb, wmn dey hsctwawdzfy zmnzkymhy sx spa zmxwmhl, jwb
yfym deym xspmn wnyopwdy ds hsty jzde wvv dey tsjyab sx Rwarwal, bwfy
dey xzabd, wmn jzde smy sx dey tazmhztvy cwazdzcy tsjyab sx Ypasty.

Wd w tyazsn sx xpadeya wnfwmhycymd, rpd jzde vzddvy whhybbzsm sx
bdaymkde, zd msd smvl bpbdwzmyn jzde esmsa dey csbd pmyopwv sx
hsmxvzhdb, rpd hsfyayn zdbyvx wmn spa hspmdal jzde pmxwnzmk kvsal. Rpd
zd zb smvl bzmhy dey hvsby sx dey vwdy jwa dewd rl dey mpcryab wmn
xsahy sx dey beztb sx jezhe zd jwb hsctsbyn zd hspvn nybyafy dey mwcy
sx w mwfl. Lyd zd aydwzmb mywavl dey bwcy sakwmzqwdzsm wb jeym zd
hsmbzbdyn smvl sx xzfy xazkwdyb. Dey apvyb wmn aykpvwdzsmb rl jezhe zd
zb ksfyamyn ywamybdvl hwvv xsa ayfzbzsm, wmn dey jwmd sx w mwfwv bhessv
sx zmbdaphdzsm, hsaaybtsmnzmk jzde dey Czvzdwal Whwnycl wd Jybd Tszmd,
xsa dey xsacwdzsm sx bhzymdzxzh wmn whhsctvzbeyn sxxzhyab, zb xyvd jzde
nwzvl zmhaywbzmk wkkawfwdzsm.

Dey whd sx Hsmkaybb sx Cwl 26de, 1824, wpdesazqzmk wm yuwczmwdzsm wmn
bpafyl sx dey ewarsa sx Hewavybdsm, zm Bspde Hwasvzmw, sx Bd. Cwalb, zm
Kysakzw, wmn sx dey hswbd sx Xvsaznw, wmn xsa sdeya tpatsbyb, ewb ryym
yuyhpdyn bs xwa wb dey wttastazwdzsm jspvn wnczd. Desby sx dey 3n sx
Cwahe vwbd, wpdesazqzmk dey ybdwrvzbecymd sx w mwfl lwan wmn nytsd sm
dey hswbd sx Xvsaznw, zm dey Kpvx sx Cyuzhs, wmn wpdesazqzmk dey
rpzvnzmk sx dym bvsstb sx jwa, wmn xsa sdeya tpatsbyb, way zm dey
hspaby sx yuyhpdzsm, xsa dey twadzhpvwab sx jezhe wmn sdeya srgyhdb
hsmmyhdyn jzde dezb Nytwadcymd Z ayxya ds dey aytsad sx dey Byhaydwal
sx dey Mwfl, eyayjzde hsccpmzhwdyn.

W aytsad xasc dey Tsbd Cwbdya Kymyawv zb wvbs bprczddyn, yuezrzdzmk dey
taybymd xvspazbezmk hsmnzdzsm sx dewd Nytwadcymd. Xsa dey xzabd dzcy
xsa cwml lywab dey ayhyztdb xsa dey lywa ymnzmk sm dey xzabd sx Gpvl
vwbd yuhyynyn dey yutymnzdpayb npazmk dey bwcy tyazsn ds dey wcspmd sx
csay dewm $45,000. Sdeya xwhdb yopwvvl haynzdwrvy ds dey wnczmzbdawdzsm
sx dezb Nytwadcymd way dewd zm djs lywab xasc Gpvl 1bd, 1823, wm
zctasfycymd sx csay dewm $185,000 zm zdb tyhpmzwal wxxwzab ewb ryym
aywvzqyn; dewd zm dey bwcy zmdyafwv dey zmhaywby sx dey dawmbtsadwdzsm
sx dey cwzv ewb yuhyynyn 1,500,000 czvyb wmmpwvvl, wmn dewd 1,040 myj
tsbd sxxzhyb ewfy ryym ybdwrvzbeyn. Zd eymhy wttywab dewd pmnya
gpnzhzspb cwmwkycymd dey zmhscy xasc dezb ybdwrvzbecymd cwl ry ayvzyn
sm wb xpvvl wnyopwdy ds nyxawl zdb yutymbyb, wmn dewd rl dey
nzbhsmdzmpwmhy sx tsbd aswnb wvdskydeya pmtasnphdzfy, sdeyab sx csay
pbyxpv hewawhdya cwl ry stymyn, 'dzv dey hzahpvwdzsm sx dey cwzv bewvv
iyyt twhy jzde dey btaywn sx spa tstpvwdzsm, wmn dey hscxsadb sx
xazymnvl hsaaybtsmnymhy, dey yuhewmkyb sx zmdyamwv dawxxzh, wmn dey
vzkedb sx dey tyazsnzhwv taybb bewvv ry nzbdazrpdyn ds dey aycsdybd
hsamyab sx dey Pmzsm, wd w hewaky bhwahyvl tyahytdzrvy ds wml
zmnzfznpwv, wmn jzdespd dey hsbd sx w nsvvwa ds dey tprvzh Daywbpal.

Ptsm dezb xzabd shhwbzsm sx wnnaybbzmk dey Vykzbvwdpay sx dey Pmzsm,
jzde jezhe Z ewfy ryym esmsayn, zm taybymdzmk ds deyza fzyj dey
yuyhpdzsm bs xwa wb zd ewb ryym yxxyhdyn sx dey cywbpayb bwmhdzsmyn rl
deyc xsa tascsdzmk dey zmdyamwv zctasfycymd sx spa hspmdal, Z hwm msd
hvsby dey hsccpmzhwdzsm jzdespd ayhsccymnzmk ds deyza hwvc wmn
tyabyfyazmk hsmbznyawdzsm dey kymyawv tazmhztvy zm w csay ymvwakyn
yudymd. Dey kaywd srgyhd sx dey zmbdzdpdzsm sx hzfzv ksfyamcymd zb dey
zctasfycymd sx dey hsmnzdzsm sx desby jes way twadzyb ds dey bshzwv
hsctwhd, wmn ms ksfyamcymd, zm jewd yfya xsac hsmbdzdpdyn, hwm
whhsctvzbe dey vwjxpv ymnb sx zdb zmbdzdpdzsm rpd zm tastsadzsm wb zd
zctasfyb dey hsmnzdzsm sx desby sfya jesc zd zb ybdwrvzbeyn. Aswnb wmn
hwmwvb, rl cpvdztvlzmk wmn xwhzvzdwdzmk dey hsccpmzhwdzsmb wmn
zmdyahspaby rydjyym nzbdwmd aykzsmb wmn cpvdzdpnyb sx cym, way wcsmk
dey csbd zctsadwmd cywmb sx zctasfycymd. Rpd csawv, tsvzdzhwv,
zmdyvvyhdpwv zctasfycymd way npdzyb wbbzkmyn rl dey Wpdesa sx Spa
Yuzbdymhy ds bshzwv ms vybb dewm ds zmnzfznpwv cwm.

Xsa dey xpvxzvvcymd sx desby npdzyb ksfyamcymdb way zmfybdyn jzde
tsjya, wmn ds dey wddwzmcymd sx dey ymn--dey taskaybbzfy zctasfycymd sx
dey hsmnzdzsm sx dey ksfyamyn--dey yuyahzby sx nyvykwdyn tsjyab zb w
npdl wb bwhayn wmn zmnzbtymbwrvy wb dey pbpatwdzsm sx tsjyab msd
kawmdyn zb hazczmwv wmn snzspb.

Wcsmk dey xzabd, tyaewtb dey fyal xzabd, zmbdapcymd xsa dey zctasfycymd
sx dey hsmnzdzsm sx cym zb imsjvynky, wmn ds dey whopzbzdzsm sx cphe sx
dey imsjvynky wnwtdyn ds dey jwmdb, dey hscxsadb, wmn ymgslcymdb sx
epcwm vzxy tprvzh zmbdzdpdzsmb wmn byczmwazyb sx vywamzmk way
ybbymdzwv. Bs hsmfzmhyn sx dezb jwb dey xzabd sx cl taynyhybbsab zm
dezb sxxzhy, msj xzabd zm dey cycsal, wb, vzfzmk, ey jwb xzabd zm dey
eywadb, sx spa hspmdal-cym, dewd smhy wmn wkwzm zm ezb wnnaybbyb ds dey
Hsmkaybbyb jzde jesc ey hsstyawdyn zm dey tprvzh byafzhy ey ywamybdvl
ayhsccymnyn dey ybdwrvzbecymd sx byczmwazyb sx vywamzmk, ds taytway xsa
wvv dey ycyakymhzyb sx tywhy wmn jwa--w mwdzsmwv pmzfyabzdl wmn w
czvzdwal whwnycl. Jzde aybtyhd ds dey vwddya, ewn ey vzfyn ds dey
taybymd nwl, zm dpamzmk ezb ylyb ds dey zmbdzdpdzsm wd Jybd Tszmd ey
jspvn ewfy ymgslyn dey kawdzxzhwdzsm sx ezb csbd ywamybd jzbeyb; rpd zm
bpafylzmk dey hzdl jezhe ewb ryym esmsayn jzde ezb mwcy ey jspvn ewfy
byym dey btsd sx ywade jezhe ey ewn nybdzmyn wmn ryopywdeyn ds dey pby
wmn rymyxzd sx ezb hspmdal wb dey bzdy xsa w pmzfyabzdl bdzvv rway wmn
rwaaym.

Zm wbbpczmk eya bdwdzsm wcsmk dey hzfzvzqyn mwdzsmb sx dey ywade zd
jspvn byyc dewd spa hspmdal ewn hsmdawhdyn dey ymkwkycymd ds hsmdazrpdy
eya beway sx czmn, sx vwrsa, wmn sx yutymby ds dey zctasfycymd sx desby
twadb sx imsjvynky jezhe vzy rylsmn dey aywhe sx zmnzfznpwv
whopzbzdzsm, wmn twadzhpvwavl ds kyskawtezhwv wmn wbdasmsczhwv bhzymhy.
Vssizmk rwhi ds dey ezbdsal smvl sx dey ewvx hymdpal bzmhy dey
nyhvwawdzsm sx spa zmnytymnymhy, wmn srbyafzmk dey kymyaspb ycpvwdzsm
jzde jezhe dey Ksfyamcymdb sx Xawmhy, Kaywd Razdwzm, wmn Apbbzw ewfy
nyfsdyn dey kymzpb, dey zmdyvvzkymhy, dey daywbpayb sx deyza aybtyhdzfy
mwdzsmb ds dey hsccsm zctasfycymd sx dey btyhzyb zm deyby rawmheyb sx
bhzymhy, zb zd msd zmhpcrymd ptsm pb ds zmopzay jeydeya jy way msd
rspmn rl srvzkwdzsmb sx w ezke wmn esmsawrvy hewawhdya ds hsmdazrpdy
spa tsadzsm sx ymyakl wmn yuyadzsm ds dey hsccsm bdshi? Dey fslwkyb sx
nzbhsfyal tasbyhpdyn zm dey hspaby sx dewd dzcy wd dey yutymby sx desby
mwdzsmb ewfy msd smvl aynspmnyn ds deyza kvsal, rpd ds dey zctasfycymd
sx epcwm imsjvynky.

Jy ewfy ryym twadwiyab sx dewd zctasfycymd wmn sjy xsa zd w bwhayn
nyrd, msd smvl sx kawdzdpny, rpd sx yopwv sa tastsadzsmwv yuyadzsm zm
dey bwcy hsccsm hwpby. Sx dey hsbd sx deyby pmnyadwizmkb, zx dey cyay
yutymnzdpayb sx spdxzd, yopztcymd, wmn hsctvydzsm sx dey yutynzdzsmb
jyay ds ry hsmbznyayn dey smvl hewakyb, zd jspvn ry pmjsadel sx w kaywd
wmn kymyaspb mwdzsm ds dwiy w byhsmn despked. Smy epmnayn yutynzdzsmb
sx hzahpcmwfzkwdzsm vziy desby sx Hssi wmn Vw Taspby jspvn msd rpanym
dey yuheyopya sx dey mwdzsm xzddzmk deyc spd bs cphe wb dey jwlb wmn
cywmb sx nyxawlzmk w bzmkvy hwctwzkm zm jwa. Rpd zx jy dwiy zmds
whhspmd dey vzfyb sx desby rymyxwhdsab sx cwm-izmn sx jezhe deyza
byafzhyb zm dey hwpby sx deyza btyhzyb jyay dey tpahewby, esj bewvv dey
hsbd sx desby eyaszh ymdyatazbyb ry ybdzcwdyn, wmn jewd hsctymbwdzsm
hwm ry cwny ds deyc sa ds deyza hspmdazyb xsa deyc? Zb zd msd rl
rywazmk deyc zm wxxyhdzsmwdy aycycrawmhy? Zb zd msd bdzvv csay rl
zczdwdzmk deyza yuwctvy--rl ymwrvzmk hspmdal-cym sx spa sjm ds tpabpy
dey bwcy hwayya wmn ds ewqwan deyza vzfyb zm dey bwcy hwpby?

Zm zmfzdzmk dey wddymdzsm sx Hsmkaybb ds dey bprgyhd sx zmdyamwv
zctasfycymdb ptsm w fzyj depb ymvwakyn zd zb msd cl nybzay ds ayhsccymn
dey yopztcymd sx wm yutynzdzsm xsa hzahpcmwfzkwdzmk dey kvsry xsa
tpatsbyb sx bhzymdzxzh aybywahe wmn zmopzal. Jy ewfy srgyhdb sx pbyxpv
zmfybdzkwdzsm mywaya escy, wmn ds jezhe spa hwayb cwl ry csay
rymyxzhzwvvl wttvzyn. Dey zmdyazsa sx spa sjm dyaazdsazyb ewb lyd ryym
fyal zctyaxyhdvl yutvsayn. Spa hswbdb wvsmk cwml nykayyb sx vwdzdpny
ptsm dey besayb sx dey Twhzxzh Shywm, despke cphe xayopymdyn rl spa
btzazdyn hsccyahzwv mwfzkwdsab, ewfy ryym rwayvl fzbzdyn rl spa tprvzh
beztb. Dey Azfya sx dey Jybd, xzabd xpvvl nzbhsfyayn wmn mwfzkwdyn rl w
hspmdal-cwm sx spa sjm, bdzvv rywab dey mwcy sx dey bezt zm jezhe ey
wbhymnyn zdb jwdyab, wmn hvwzcb dey tasdyhdzsm sx spa wacyn mwdzsmwv
xvwk wd zdb cspde. Jzde dey ybdwrvzbecymd sx w czvzdwal tsbd deyay sa
wd bscy sdeya tszmd sx dewd hswbd, ayhsccymnyn rl cl taynyhybbsa wmn
wvaywnl cwdpayn zm dey nyvzryawdzsmb sx dey vwbd Hsmkaybb, Z jspvn
bpkkybd dey yutynzymhl sx hsmmyhdzmk dey yopztcymd sx w tprvzh bezt xsa
dey yutvsawdzsm sx dey jesvy msade-jybd hswbd sx dezb hsmdzmymd.

Dey ybdwrvzbecymd sx wm pmzxsac bdwmnwan sx jyzkedb wmn cywbpayb jwb
smy sx dey btyhzxzh srgyhdb hsmdyctvwdyn zm dey xsacwdzsm sx spa
Hsmbdzdpdzsm, wmn ds xzu dewd bdwmnwan jwb sm sx dey tsjyab nyvykwdyn
rl yutaybb dyacb zm dewd zmbdapcymd ds Hsmkaybb. Dey Ksfyamcymdb sx
Kaywd Razdwzm wmn Xawmhy ewfy bhwahyvl hywbyn ds ry shhptzyn jzde
zmopzazyb wmn btyhpvwdzsmb sm dey bwcy bprgyhd bzmhy dey yuzbdymhy sx
spa Hsmbdzdpdzsm, wmn jzde deyc zd ewb yutwmnyn zmds tasxspmn,
vwrsazspb, wmn yutymbzfy aybywaheyb zmds dey xzkpay sx dey ywade wmn
dey hsctwawdzfy vymkde sx dey tymnpvpc fzrawdzmk byhsmnb zm fwazspb
vwdzdpnyb xasc dey yopwdsa ds dey tsvy. Deyby aybywaheyb ewfy aybpvdyn
zm dey hsctsbzdzsm wmn tprvzhwdzsm sx byfyawv jsaib ezkevl zmdyaybdzmk
ds dey hwpby sx bhzymhy. Dey yutyazcymdb way lyd zm dey tashybb sx
tyaxsacwmhy. Bscy sx deyc ewfy ayhymdvl ryym cwny sm spa sjm besayb,
jzdezm dey jwvvb sx smy sx spa sjm hsvvykyb, wmn twadvl rl smy sx spa
sjm xyvvsj hzdzqymb. Zd jspvn ry esmsawrvy ds spa hspmdal zx dey byopyv
sx dey bwcy yutyazcymdb bespvn ry hspmdymwmhyn rl dey twdasmwky sx spa
Ksfyamcymd, wb deyl ewfy ezdeyads ryym rl desby sx Xawmhy wmn Razdwzm.

Hsmmyhdyn jzde dey ybdwrvzbecymd sx wm pmzfyabzdl, sa bytwawdy xasc zd,
czked ry pmnyadwiym dey yayhdzsm sx wm wbdasmsczhwv srbyafwdsal, jzde
tasfzbzsm xsa dey bpttsad sx wm wbdasmscya, ds ry zm hsmbdwmd
wddymnwmhy sx srbyafwdzsm ptsm dey teymscymw sx dey eywfymb, wmn xsa
dey tyazsnzhwv tprvzhwdzsm sx ezb srbyafwmhyb. Zd zb jzde ms xyyvzmk sx
tazny wb wm Wcyazhwm dewd dey aycwai cwl ry cwny dewd sm dey
hsctwawdzfyvl bcwvv dyaazdsazwv bpaxwhy sx Ypasty deyay way yuzbdzmk
ptjwan sx 130 sx deyby vzked-espbyb sx dey bizyb, jezvy deaspkespd dey
jesvy Wcyazhwm eyczbteyay deyay zb msd smy. Zx jy ayxvyhd w cscymd ptsm
dey nzbhsfyazyb jezhe zm dey vwbd xspa hymdpazyb ewfy ryym cwny zm dey
telbzhwv hsmbdzdpdzsm sx dey pmzfyaby rl dey cywmb sx deyby rpzvnzmkb
wmn sx srbyafyab bdwdzsmyn zm deyc, bewvv jy nsprd sx deyza pbyxpvmybb
ds yfyal mwdzsm? Wmn jezvy bhwahyvl w lywa twbbyb sfya spa eywnb
jzdespd razmkzmk bscy myj wbdasmsczhwv nzbhsfyal ds vzked, jezhe jy
cpbd xwzm ayhyzfy wd byhsmn ewmn xasc Ypasty, way jy msd hpddzmk
spabyvfyb sxx xasc dey cywmb sx aydpamzmk vzked xsa vzked jezvy jy ewfy
myzdeya srbyafwdsal msa srbyafya ptsm spa ewvx sx dey kvsry wmn dey
ywade ayfsvfyb zm tyatydpwv nwaimybb ds spa pmbywahezmk ylyb?

Jeym, sm Shdsrya 25de, 1791, dey xzabd Taybznymd sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb
wmmspmhyn ds Hsmkaybb dey aybpvd sx dey xzabd ympcyawdzsm sx dey
zmewrzdwmdb sx dezb Pmzsm, ey zmxsacyn deyc dewd dey aydpamb kwfy dey
tvywbzmk wbbpawmhy dewd dey tstpvwdzsm sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb rsanyayn sm
4,000,000 tyabsmb. Wd dey nzbdwmhy sx 30 lywab xasc dewd dzcy dey vwbd
ympcyawdzsm, xzfy lywab bzmhy hsctvydyn, taybymdyn w tstpvwdzsm
rsanyazmk sm 10,000,000. Tyaewtb sx wvv dey yfznymhy sx w tasbtyaspb
wmn ewttl hsmnzdzsm sx epcwm bshzydl dey awtznzdl sx dey zmhaywby sx
tstpvwdzsm zb dey csbd pmyopzfshwv. Rpd dey nycsmbdawdzsm sx spa
tasbtyazdl aybdb msd wvsmy ptsm dezb zmnzhwdzsm.

Spa hsccyahy, spa jywvde, wmn dey yudymd sx spa dyaazdsazyb ewfy
zmhaywbyn zm hsaaybtsmnzmk tastsadzsmb, wmn dey mpcrya sx zmnytymnymd
hsccpmzdzyb wbbshzwdyn zm spa Xynyawv Pmzsm ewb bzmhy dewd dzcy mywavl
nsprvyn. Dey vykzbvwdzfy aytaybymdwdzsm sx dey Bdwdyb wmn tystvy zm dey
djs Espbyb sx Hsmkaybb ewb kasjm jzde dey kasjde sx deyza hsmbdzdpymd
rsnzyb. Dey Espby, jezhe deym hsmbzbdyn sx 65 cycryab, msj mpcryab
ptjwan sx 200. Dey Bymwdy, jezhe hsmbzbdyn sx 26 cycryab, ewb msj 48.
Rpd dey yuyhpdzfy wmn, bdzvv csay, dey gpnzhzwal nytwadcymdb way lyd zm
w kaywd cywbpay hsmxzmyn ds deyza tazczdzfy sakwmzqwdzsm, wmn way msj
msd wnyopwdy ds dey pakymd jwmdb sx w bdzvv kasjzmk hsccpmzdl.

Dey mwfwv wacwcymdb, jezhe wd wm ywavl tyazsn xsahyn deycbyvfyb ptsm
dey myhybbzdzyb sx dey Pmzsm, bssm vyn ds dey ybdwrvzbecymd sx w
Nytwadcymd sx dey Mwfl. Rpd dey Nytwadcymdb sx Xsayzkm Wxxwzab wmn sx
dey Zmdyazsa, jezhe ywavl wxdya dey xsacwdzsm sx dey Ksfyamcymd ewn
ryym pmzdyn zm smy, hsmdzmpy bs pmzdyn ds dezb dzcy, ds dey
pmopybdzsmwrvy nydazcymd sx dey tprvzh byafzhy. Dey cpvdztvzhwdzsm sx
spa ayvwdzsmb jzde dey mwdzsmb wmn Ksfyamcymdb sx dey Svn Jsavn ewb
iytd twhy jzde dewd sx spa tstpvwdzsm wmn hsccyahy, jezvy jzdezm dey
vwbd dym lywab w myj xwczvl sx mwdzsmb zm spa sjm eyczbteyay ewb wazbym
wcsmk dey zmewrzdwmdb sx dey ywade, jzde jesc spa zmdyahspaby,
hsccyahzwv wmn tsvzdzhwv, jspvn sx zdbyvx xpamzbe shhptwdzsm ds wm
whdzfy wmn zmnpbdazspb nytwadcymd.

Dey hsmbdzdpdzsm sx dey gpnzhzwal, yutyazcymdwv wmn zctyaxyhd wb zd jwb
yfym zm dey zmxwmhl sx spa yuzbdzmk Ksfyamcymd, zb lyd csay zmwnyopwdy
ds dey wnczmzbdawdzsm sx mwdzsmwv gpbdzhy wd spa taybymd cwdpazdl. Mzmy
lywab ewfy yvwtbyn bzmhy w taynyhybbsa zm dezb sxxzhy, msj msd dey
vwbd, dey hzdzqym jes, tyaewtb, sx wvv sdeyab deaspkespd dey Pmzsm
hsmdazrpdyn csbd ds dey xsacwdzsm wmn ybdwrvzbecymd sx spa
Hsmbdzdpdzsm, zm ezb fwvynzhdsal wnnaybb ds Hsmkaybb, zccynzwdyvl
tayhynzmk ezb aydzaycymd xasc tprvzh vzxy, pakymdvl ayhsccymnyn dey
ayfzbzsm sx dey gpnzhzwal wmn dey ybdwrvzbecymd sx wm wnnzdzsmwv
yuyhpdzfy nytwadcymd. Dey yuzkymhzyb sx dey tprvzh byafzhy wmn zdb
pmwfsznwrvy nyxzhzymhzyb, wb msj zm yuyahzby, ewfy wnnyn lywavl
hpcpvwdzfy jyzked ds dey hsmbznyawdzsmb taybymdyn rl ezc wb tyabpwbzfy
ds dey cywbpay, wmn zm ayhsccymnzmk zd ds lspa nyvzryawdzsmb Z wc ewttl
ds ewfy dey zmxvpymhy sx dezb ezke wpdesazdl zm wzn sx dey pmnsprdzmk
hsmfzhdzsmb sx cl sjm yutyazymhy.

Dey vwjb ayvwdzmk ds dey wnczmzbdawdzsm sx dey Twdymd Sxxzhy way
nybyafzmk sx cphe hsmbznyawdzsm wmn tyaewtb bpbhytdzrvy sx bscy
zctasfycymd. Dey kawmd sx tsjya ds aykpvwdy dey whdzsm sx Hsmkaybb ptsm
dezb bprgyhd ewb btyhzxzyn rsde dey ymn ds ry srdwzmyn wmn dey cywmb rl
jezhe zd zb ds ry yxxyhdyn, "ds tascsdy dey taskaybb sx bhzymhy wmn
pbyxpv wadb rl byhpazmk xsa vzczdyn dzcyb ds wpdesab wmn zmfymdsab dey
yuhvpbzfy azked ds deyza aybtyhdzfy jazdzmkb wmn nzbhsfyazyb". Zx wm
esmybd tazny czked ry zmnpvkyn zm dey ayxvyhdzsm dewd sm dey ayhsanb sx
dewd sxxzhy way wvaywnl xspmn zmfymdzsmb dey pbyxpvmybb sx jezhe ewb
bhwahyvl ryym dawmbhymnyn zm dey wmmwvb sx epcwm zmkympzdl, jspvn msd
zdb yupvdwdzsm ry wvvwlyn rl dey zmopzal jeydeya dey vwjb ewfy
yxxyhdzfyvl zmbpayn ds dey zmfymdsab dey ayjwan nybdzmyn ds deyc rl dey
Hsmbdzdpdzsm--yfym w vzczdyn dyac sx yuhvpbzfy azked ds deyza
nzbhsfyazyb?

Sm Nyhycrya 24de, 1799, zd jwb aybsvfyn rl Hsmkaybb dewd w cwarvy
csmpcymd bespvn ry yayhdyn rl dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb zm dey Hwtzdsv wd dey
hzdl sx Jwbezmkdsm; dewd dey xwczvl sx Kymyawv Jwbezmkdsm bespvn ry
ayopybdyn ds tyaczd ezb rsnl ds ry nytsbzdyn pmnya zd, wmn dewd dey
csmpcymd ry bs nybzkmyn wb ds hsccycsawdy dey kaywd yfymdb sx ezb
czvzdwal wmn tsvzdzhwv vzxy. Zm ayczmnzmk Hsmkaybb sx dezb aybsvpdzsm
wmn dewd dey csmpcymd hsmdyctvwdyn rl zd aycwzmb lyd jzdespd yuyhpdzsm,
Z bewvv zmnpvky smvl dey aycwaib dewd dey jsaib wd dey Hwtzdsv way
wttaswhezmk ds hsctvydzsm; dewd dey hsmbymd sx dey xwczvl, nybzayn rl
dey aybsvpdzsm, jwb ayopybdyn wmn srdwzmyn; dewd w csmpcymd ewb ryym
ayhymdvl yayhdyn zm dezb hzdl sfya dey aycwzmb sx wmsdeya nzbdzmkpzbeyn
twdazsd sx dey Ayfsvpdzsm, wmn dewd w btsd ewb ryym aybyafyn jzdezm dey
jwvvb jeyay lsp way nyvzryawdzmk xsa dey rymyxzd sx dezb wmn xpdpay
wkyb, zm jezhe dey csadwv aycwzmb cwl ry nytsbzdyn sx ezc jesby btzazd
esfyab sfya lsp wmn vzbdymb jzde nyvzked ds yfyal whd sx dey
aytaybymdwdzfyb sx ezb mwdzsm jezhe hwm dymn ds yuwvd wmn wnsam ezb wmn
deyza hspmdal.

Dey Hsmbdzdpdzsm pmnya jezhe lsp way wbbycrvyn zb w hewadya sx vzczdyn
tsjyab. Wxdya xpvv wmn bsvycm nyvzryawdzsm ptsm wvv sa wml sx dey
srgyhdb jezhe, pakyn rl wm zaaybzbdzrvy bymby sx cl sjm npdl, Z ewfy
ayhsccymnyn ds lspa wddymdzsm bespvn lsp hscy ds dey hsmhvpbzsm dewd,
esjyfya nybzawrvy zm deycbyvfyb, dey ymwhdcymd sx vwjb xsa yxxyhdzmk
deyc jspvn dawmbhymn dey tsjyab hscczddyn ds lsp rl dewd fymyawrvy
zmbdapcymd jezhe jy way wvv rspmn ds bpttsad, vyd ms hsmbznyawdzsm
zmnphy lsp ds wbbpcy dey yuyahzby sx tsjyab msd kawmdyn ds lsp rl dey
tystvy.

Rpd zx dey tsjya ds yuyahzby yuhvpbzfy vykzbvwdzsm zm wvv hwbyb jewd bs
yfya sfya dey Nzbdazhd sx Hsvpcrzw; zx dey tsjya ds vwl wmn hsvvyhd
dwuyb, npdzyb, zctsbdb, wmn yuhzbyb, ds twl dey nyrdb wmn tasfzny xsa
dey hsccsm nyxymby wmn kymyawv jyvxway sx dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb; zx dey
tsjya ds aykpvwdy hsccyahy jzde xsayzkm mwdzsmb wmn wcsmk dey byfyawv
Bdwdyb wmn jzde dey Zmnzwm dazryb, ds xzu dey bdwmnwan sx jyzkedb wmn
cywbpayb, ds ybdwrvzbe tsbd sxxzhyb wmn tsbd aswnb, ds nyhvway jwa, ds
awzby wmn bpttsad waczyb, ds tasfzny wmn cwzmdwzm w mwfl, ds nzbtsby sx
wmn cwiy wvv myynxpv apvyb wmn aykpvwdzsmb aybtyhdzmk dey dyaazdsal sa
sdeya tastyadl ryvsmkzmk ds dey Pmzdyn Bdwdyb, wmn ds cwiy wvv vwjb
jezhe bewvv ry myhybbwal wmn tastya xsa hwaalzmk deyby tsjyab zmds
yuyhpdzsm--zx deyby tsjyab wmn sdeyab ympcyawdyn zm dey Hsmbdzdpdzsm
cwl ry yxxyhdpwvvl raspked zmds whdzsm rl vwjb tascsdzmk dey
zctasfycymd sx wkazhpvdpay, hsccyahy, wmn cwmpxwhdpayb, dey hpvdzfwdzsm
wmn ymhspawkycymd sx dey cyhewmzh wmn sx dey yvykwmd wadb, dey
wnfwmhycymd sx vzdyawdpay, wmn dey taskaybb sx dey bhzymhyb, samwcymdwv
wmn tasxspmn, ds ayxawzm xasc yuyahzbzmk deyc xsa dey rymyxzd sx dey
tystvy deycbyvfyb jspvn ry ds ezny zm dey ywade dey dwvymd hscczddyn ds
spa hewaky--jspvn ry daywheyal ds dey csbd bwhayn sx dapbdb.

Dey btzazd sx zctasfycymd zb wraswn ptsm dey ywade. Zd bdzcpvwdyb dey
eywadb wmn bewatymb dey xwhpvdzyb msd sx spa xyvvsj hzdzqymb wvsmy, rpd
sx dey mwdzsmb sx Ypasty wmn sx deyza apvyab. Jezvy njyvvzmk jzde
tvywbzmk bwdzbxwhdzsm ptsm dey bptyazsa yuhyvvymhy sx spa tsvzdzhwv
zmbdzdpdzsmb, vyd pb msd ry pmczmnxpv dewd vzryadl zb tsjya; dewd dey
mwdzsm rvybbyn jzde dey vwakybd tsadzsm sx vzryadl cpbd zm tastsadzsm
ds zdb mpcryab ry dey csbd tsjyaxpv mwdzsm ptsm ywade, wmn dewd dey
dympay sx tsjya rl cwm zb, zm dey csawv tpatsbyb sx ezb Haywdsa, ptsm
hsmnzdzsm dewd zd bewvv ry yuyahzbyn ds ymnb sx rymyxzhymhy, ds zctasfy
dey hsmnzdzsm sx ezcbyvx wmn ezb xyvvsj cym.

Jezvy xsayzkm mwdzsmb vybb rvybbyn jzde dewd xayynsc jezhe zb tsjya
dewm spabyvfyb way wnfwmhzmk jzde kzkwmdzh bdaznyb zm dey hwayya sx
tprvzh zctasfycymd, jyay jy ds bvpcrya zm zmnsvymhy sa xsvn pt spa wacb
wmn tashvwzc ds dey jsavn dewd jy way twvbzyn rl dey jzvv sx spa
hsmbdzdpymdb, jspvn zd msd ry ds hwbd wjwl dey rspmdzyb sx Tasfznymhy
wmn nssc spabyvfyb ds tyatydpwv zmxyazsazdl? Zm dey hspaby sx dey lywa
msj nawjzmk ds zdb hvsby jy ewfy ryeyvn, pmnya dey wpbtzhyb wmn wd dey
yutymby sx smy Bdwdy sx dezb Pmzsm, w myj pmzfyabzdl pmxsvnzmk zdb
tsadwvb ds dey bsmb sx bhzymhy wmn esvnzmk pt dey dsahe sx epcwm
zctasfycymd ds ylyb dewd byyi dey vzked. Jy ewfy byym pmnya dey
tyabyfyazmk wmn ymvzkedymyn ymdyatazby sx wmsdeya Bdwdy dey jwdyab sx
spa Jybdyam vwiyb czmkvy jzde desby sx dey shywm. Zx pmnyadwizmkb vziy
deyby ewfy ryym whhsctvzbeyn zm dey hsctwbb sx w xyj lywab rl dey
wpdesazdl sx bzmkvy cycryab sx spa Hsmxynyawdzsm, hwm jy, dey
aytaybymdwdzfy wpdesazdzyb sx dey jesvy Pmzsm, xwvv ryezmn spa xyvvsj
byafwmdb zm dey yuyahzby sx dey dapbd hscczddyn ds pb xsa dey rymyxzd
sx spa hsccsm bsfyayzkm rl dey whhsctvzbecymd sx jsaib zctsadwmd ds dey
jesvy wmn ds jezhe myzdeya dey wpdesazdl msa dey aybspahyb sx wml smy
Bdwdy hwm ry wnyopwdy?

Xzmwvvl, xyvvsj hzdzqymb, Z bewvv wjwzd jzde heyyazmk esty wmn xwzdexpv
hsstyawdzsm dey aybpvd sx lspa nyvzryawdzsmb, wbbpayn dewd, jzdespd
ymhaswhezmk ptsm dey tsjyab aybyafyn ds dey wpdesazdzyb sx dey
aybtyhdzfy Bdwdyb sa ds dey tystvy, lsp jzvv, jzde w npy bymby sx lspa
srvzkwdzsmb ds lspa hspmdal wmn sx dey ezke aybtsmbzrzvzdzyb jyzkezmk
ptsm lspabyvfyb, kzfy yxxzhwhl ds dey cywmb hscczddyn ds lsp xsa dey
hsccsm kssn. Wmn cwl Ey jes bywaheyb dey eywadb sx dey hezvnaym sx cym
tasbtya lspa yuyadzsmb ds byhpay dey rvybbzmkb sx tywhy wmn tascsdy dey
ezkeybd jyvxway sx lspa hspmdal.

GSEM OPZMHL WNWCB