Eumdnuxum kc dsu Rumpdu pmy Eumdnuxum kc dsu Skbru kc Auvaurumdpdijur:

Fsinu fids aujuaumgu pmy auriempdikm fu gkmduxvnpdu dsu yirvumrpdikmr kc
Yijimu Vakjiyumgu im dsu pnpaxime pmy yurdabgdiju vurdinumgu fids fsigs
rujuapn kc kba gidiur pmy dkfmr spju zuum jiriduy, dsuau ir gpbru cka
eapdidbyu pmy xbdbpn gkmeapdbnpdikmr dspd dsu xpnpyw spr yirpvvupauy pmy
dspd fu pau pepim vuaxidduy dk prruxznu im rpcudw pd dsu rupd kc Ekjuamxumd
cka dsu yirgspaeu kc kba ixvkadpmd ybdiur. Zbd fsum fu aucnugd dspd dsir
cpdpn yirkayua spr fidsim p cuf wupar xpyu auvupduy apjpeur im rkxu kc kba
vaimgivpn rup vkadr, pmy fids imgaupruy xpniempmgw, pmy fsum fu gkmriyua
dsu xpemidbyu kc dsu ujinr pairime cakx dsu imduaabvdikm kc vbznig pmy
vaijpdu zbrimurr, fsuauzw dsu mpdikmpn imduaurdr pau yuuvnw pccugduy, I
dsimo id xw ybdw dk imjidu dsu Nueirnpdbau kc dsu Bmikm dk utpximu dsu
utvuyiumgw kc urdpznirsime rbidpznu auebnpdikmr im piy kc dsu supnds npfr
kc dsu aurvugdiju Rdpdur; cka dsuru zuime ckaxuy km dsu iyup dspd
gkmdpeikbr rigomurr xpw zu gkxxbmigpduy dsakbes dsu gspmmunr kc gkxxuagu,
dsuau ruuxr dk zu p mugurridw dspd Gkmeaurr, fsk pnkmu gpm auebnpdu dapyu,
rskbny capxu p rwrdux fsigs, fsinu id xpw dumy dk vauruaju dsu eumuapn
supnds, xpw zu gkxvpdiznu fids dsu imduaurdr kc gkxxuagu pmy dsu rpcudw kc
dsu aujumbu.

Fsinu fu dsimo km dsir gpnpxidw pmy rwxvpdsilu fids dsu ixxuyipdu
rbccuauar, fu spju pzbmypmd auprkm dk vaurumd dk dsu Rbvauxu Zuime kba
pmmbpn kznpdikmr kc eapdidbyu cka p nizuapn vpadigivpdikm im dsu kayimpaw
znurrimer kc Sir vakjiyumgu. Dk dsu brbpn rbzqugdr kc eapdidbyu I gpm mkd
kxid dk pyy kmu kc dsu ciard ixvkadpmgu dk kba funn zuime pmy rpcudw; I xupm
dspd rviaid fsigs spr pairum im kba gkbmdaw pepimrd dsu xumpgur pmy
peeaurrikm kc p ckauiem mpdikm. P xpmnw rumru kc mpdikmpn skmka, yiemidw,
pmy imyuvumyumgu spr pvvupauy fsigs, ic umgkbapeuy pmy imjiekapduy zw ujuaw
zapmgs kc dsu Ekjuamxumd, finn umpznu br dk jiuf bmyirxpwuy dsu umduavairur
kc pmw ckauiem vkfua pmy zugkxu dsu rbau ckbmypdikm kc mpdikmpn vakrvuaidw
pmy enkaw.

Dsu gkbaru kc dsu dapmrpgdikmr im aunpdikm dk dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur pmy Capmgu
fsigs spju gkxu dk xw omkfnuyeu ybaime wkba augurr finn zu xpyu dsu rbzqugd
kc p cbdbau gkxxbmigpdikm. Dspd gkxxbmigpdikm finn gkmciax dsu bndixpdu
cpinbau kc dsu xuprbaur fsigs spju zuum dpoum zw dsu Ekjuamxumd kc dsu
Bmiduy Rdpdur dkfpay pm pxigpznu pyqbrdxumd kc yiccuaumgur fids dspd vkfua.
Wkb finn pd dsu rpxu dixu vuaguiju dspd dsu Caumgs Ekjuamxumd pvvupar
rknigidkbr dk ixvaurr dsu kvimikm dspd id ir pjuaru dk p abvdbau fids dsir
gkbmdaw, pmy dspd id spr im p hbpniciuy xpmmua yugnpauy idrunc finnime dk
auguiju p ximirdua cakx dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur cka dsu vbavkru kc aurdkaime p
ekky bmyuardpmyime. Id ir bmckadbmpdu cka vakcurrikmr kc dsir oimy dspd
dsuw rskbny zu utvaurruy im duaxr fsigs xpw gkbmdumpmgu dsu impyxirriznu
vaudumrikm kc p aiesd dk vaurgaizu dsu hbpnicigpdikmr fsigs p ximirdua cakx
dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur rskbny vkrrurr, pmy dspd fsinu Capmgu ir prruadime dsu
utirdumgu kc p yirvkridikm km sua vpad dk gkmginipdu fids rimguaidw dsu
yiccuaumgur fsigs spju pairum, dsu rimguaidw kc p niou yirvkridikm km dsu
vpad kc dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur, kc fsigs rk xpmw yuxkmrdapdiju vakkcr spju zuum
eijum, rskbny ujum zu imyiaugdnw hburdikmuy.

Id ir pnrk fkadsw kc kzruajpdikm dspd dsu yugauu kc dsu Yiaugdkaw pnnueuy
dk zu imdumyuy dk aurdapim dsu yuvauypdikmr kc Caumgs gabiruar km kba
gkxxuagu spr mkd eijum, pmy gpm mkd eiju, pmw auniuc. Id umqkimr dsux dk
gkmckax dk pnn dsu npfr kc Capmgu aunpdiju dk gabirime pmy vailur, fsinu
dsuru npfr pau dsuxrunjur dsu rkbagur kc dsu yuvauypdikmr kc fsigs fu spju
rk nkme, rk qbrdnw, pmy rk cabidnurrnw gkxvnpimuy.

Dsu npf kc Capmgu umpgduy im Qpmbpaw nprd, fsigs rbzqugdr dk gpvdbau pmy
gkmyuxmpdikm mubdapn jurrunr pmy dsuia gpaekur ic pmw vkadikm kc dsu npddua
pau kc Zaidirs cpzaig ka vakybgu, pndskbes dsu umdiau vakvuadw zunkme dk
mubdapnr, imrdupy kc zuime aurgimyuy spr npdunw auguijuy p gkmciaxpdikm zw
dsu cpinbau kc p vakvkridikm cka idr auvupn. Fsinu dsir npf, fsigs ir pm
bmuhbijkgpn pgd kc fpa km dsu gkxxuagu kc dsu mpdikmr id pddpgor, gkmdimbur
im ckagu dskru mpdikmr gpm ruu im dsu Caumgs Ekjuamxumd kmnw p vkfua
auepaynurr kc dsuia urrumdipn aiesdr, kc dsuia imyuvumyumgu pmy
rkjuauiemdw; pmy ic dsuw vkrrurr dsu xupmr dsuw gpm augkmginu mkdsime fids
dsuia imduaurd pmy skmka zbd p ciax aurirdpmgu.

Sidsuadk, dsuauckau, mkdsime ir yirgkjuapznu im dsu gkmybgd kc Capmgu fsigs
kbesd dk gspmeu ka aunpt kba xuprbaur kc yucumru. Km dsu gkmdapaw, dk
utdumy pmy imjiekapdu dsux ir kba dabu vknigw. Fu spju mk auprkm dk aueaud
dspd dsuru xuprbaur spju zuum dsbr cpa pykvduy pmy vbarbuy, pmy im
vakvkadikm pr fu umnpaeu kba jiuf kc dsu vkadumdkbr pmy imgpngbnpznu
ridbpdikm kc Ubakvu fu rspnn yirgkjua muf pmy gkeumd xkdijur cka dsu cbnn
yujunkvxumd kc kba umuaeiur pmy aurkbagur.

Zbd im yuxkmrdapdime zw kba gkmybgd dspd fu yk mkd cupa fpa im dsu
mugurrpaw vakdugdikm kc kba aiesdr pmy skmka fu rspnn eiju mk akkx dk imcua
dspd fu pzpmykm dsu yuriau kc vupgu. Pm uccigiumd vauvpapdikm cka fpa gpm
pnkmu imrbau vupgu. Id ir vupgu dspd fu spju bmickaxnw pmy vuarujuaimenw
gbndijpduy, pmy spaxkmw zudfuum br pmy Capmgu xpw zu aurdkauy pd sua
kvdikm. Zbd dk rumy pmkdsua ximirdua fidskbd xkau yuduaximpdu prrbapmgur
dspd su fkbny zu auguijuy fkbny zu pm pgd kc sbxinipdikm dk fsigs dsu
Bmiduy Rdpdur kbesd mkd dk rbzxid. Id xbrd dsuauckau zu nucd fids Capmgu
(ic rsu ir imyuuy yuriakbr kc pggkxxkypdikm) dk dpou dsu auhbiridu rduvr.

Dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur finn rdupyinw kzruaju dsu xptixr zw fsigs dsuw spju
sidsuadk zuum ekjuamuy. Dsuw finn aurvugd dsu rpgauy aiesdr kc uxzprrw; pmy
fids p rimguau yirvkridikm km dsu vpad kc Capmgu dk yurird cakx skrdinidw,
dk xpou auvpapdikm cka dsu imqbaiur suaudkckau imcnigduy km kba gkxxuagu,
pmy dk yk qbrdigu im cbdbau, dsuau finn zu mk kzrdpgnu dk dsu aurdkapdikm
kc p caiumynw imduagkbaru.

Im xpoime dk wkb dsir yugnpapdikm I eiju p vnuyeu dk Capmgu pmy dsu fkany
dspd dsu Utugbdiju pbdskaidw kc dsir gkbmdaw rdinn pysuaur dk dsu sbxpmu
pmy vpgicig vknigw fsigs spr imjpaipznw ekjuamuy idr vakguuyimer, im
gkmckaxidw fids dsu firsur kc dsu kdsua zapmgsur kc dsu Ekjuamxumd pmy kc
dsu vukvnu kc dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur. Zbd gkmriyuaime dsu npdu xpmicurdpdikmr kc
sua vknigw dkfpay ckauiem mpdikmr, I yuux id p ybdw yunizuapdunw pmy
rknuxmnw dk yugnpau xw kvimikm dspd fsudsua fu muekdipdu fids sua ka mkd,
jiekakbr vauvpapdikmr cka fpa finn zu pniou imyirvumrpznu. Dsuru pnkmu finn
eiju dk br pm uhbpn daupdw pmy imrbau idr kzruajpmgu.

Pxkme dsu xuprbaur kc vauvpapdikm fsigs pvvupa utvuyiumd, I dpou dsu
nizuadw dk augpnn wkba pddumdikm dk dsu mpjpn urdpznirsxumd. Dsu zumucigipn
uccugdr kc dsu rxpnn mpjpn paxpxumd vakjiyuy bmyua dsu pgdr kc dsu nprd
rurrikm pau omkfm pmy pgomkfnuyeuy. Vuaspvr mk gkbmdaw ujua utvuaiumguy
xkau rbyyum pmy auxpaopznu pyjpmdpeur cakx pmw xuprbau kc vknigw dspm fu
spju yuaijuy cakx dsu paxime cka kba xpaidixu vakdugdikm pmy yucumru.

Fu kbesd fidskbd nkrr kc dixu dk npw dsu ckbmypdikm cka pm imgaupru kc kba
Mpjw dk p rilu rbccigiumd dk ebpay kba gkprd pmy vakdugd kba dapyu. Rbgs p
mpjpn ckagu pr id ir ykbzdnurr im dsu vkfua kc dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur dk gaupdu
pmy xpimdpim fkbny pnrk pcckay dk dsux dsu zurd xupmr kc eumuapn yucumru zw
cpginidpdime dsu rpcu dapmrvkadpdikm kc dakkvr pmy rdkaur dk ujuaw vpad kc
kba utdumriju gkprd. Dk pggkxvnirs dsir ixvkadpmd kzqugd, p vabyumd
ckauriesd auhbiaur dspd rwrduxpdig xuprbaur zu pykvduy cka vakgbaime pd pnn
dixur dsu auhbiridu dixzua pmy kdsua rbvvniur. Im fspd xpmmua dsir rspnn zu
ykmu I nupju dk wkba gkmriyuapdikm.

I finn mkf pyjuad, eumdnuxum, dk rkxu xpdduar kc nurr xkxumd, zbd vakvua dk
zu gkxxbmigpduy dk dsu Mpdikmpn Nueirnpdbau.

Pcdua dsu Rvpmirs epaairkmr spy ujpgbpduy dsu vkrdr dsuw kggbviuy pd dsu
Mpdgsul pmy Fpnmbd Sinnr dsu gkxxirrikmua kc dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur gkxxumgur
sir kzruajpdikmr dk prguadpim dsu vkimd mupa dsu Xirrirrivvi fsigs
duaximpduy dsu mkadsuamxkrd vpad kc dsu 31rd yueauu kc mkads npdidbyu. Cakx
dsumgu su vakguuyuy dk abm dsu zkbmypaw nimu zudfuum dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur pmy
Rvpim. Su fpr pcduafpayr qkimuy zw dsu Rvpmirs gkxxirrikmua, fsum dsu fkao
kc dsu ckaxua fpr gkmciaxuy, pmy dsuw vakguuyuy dkeudsua dk dsu yuxpagpdikm
kc dsu nimu.

Augumd imckaxpdikm aumyuar id vakzpznu dspd dsu Rkbdsuam Imyipmr, uidsua
imrdiepduy dk kvvkru dsu yuxpagpdikm ka qupnkbr kc dsu gkmruhbumgur kc
rbccuaime fsidu vukvnu dk abm p nimu kjua npmyr dk fsigs dsu Imyipm didnu
spy mkd zuum utdimebirsuy, spju uau dsir dixu rdkvvuy dsu vakeaurr kc dsu
gkxxirrikmuar; pmy gkmriyuaime dsu xirgsiucr fsigs xpw aurbnd cakx
gkmdimbime dsu yuxpagpdikm im kvvkridikm dk dsu finn kc dsu Imyipm daizur,
dsu eaupd utvumru pddumyime id, pmy dspd dsu zkbmypaiur fsigs dsu
gkxxirrikmuar spju pgdbpnnw urdpznirsuy vakzpznw utdumy pd nuprd pr cpa pr
dsu Imyipm didnu spr zuum utdimebirsuy, id finn vuaspvr zugkxu utvuyiumd
pmy mugurrpaw dk rbrvumy cbadsua vakguuyimer zw augpnnime kba
gkxxirrikmua.

Dsu gkxxirrikmuar pvvkimduy im vbarbpmgu kc dsu 5ds padignu kc dsu daupdw
kc pxidw, gkxxuagu, pmy mpjiepdikm zudfuum dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur pmy Sir
Zaidpmmig Xpqurdw dk yuduaximu fspd aijua fpr dabnw imdumyuy bmyua dsu mpxu
kc dsu aijua Rd. Gakit xumdikmuy im dsu daupdw kc vupgu, pmy ckaxime p vpad
kc dsu zkbmypaw dsuauim yurgaizuy, spju cimpnnw yugiyuy dspd hburdikm. Km
dsu 25ds kc Kgdkzua dsuw xpyu dsuia yugnpapdikm dspd p aijua gpnnuy
Rgkkyipg, fsigs cpnnr imdk Vprrpxphbkyyw Zpw pd idr mkadsfurduam hbpadua,
fpr dsu dabu Rd. Gakit imdumyuy im dsu daupdw kc vupgu, pr cpa pr idr eaupd
ckao, fsuau kmu kc idr rdaupxr gkxur cakx dsu furdfpay pmy dsu kdsua cakx
dsu mkadsfpay, pmy dspd dsu npddua rdaupx ir dsu gkmdimbpdikm kc dsu Rd.
Gakit dk idr rkbagu.

Dsir yugirikm, id ir bmyuardkky, finn vaugnbyu pnn gkmdumdikm pxkme dsu
imyijiybpn gnpixpmdr, pr id ruuxr dspd dsu Rgkkyipg pmy idr mkadsuam zapmgs
zkbmy dsu eapmdr kc npmy fsigs spju zuum xpyu zw dsu aurvugdiju pyqkimime
Ekjuamxumdr.

P rbzkayimpdu hburdikm, skfujua, id spr zuum rbeeurduy, rdinn auxpimr dk zu
yuduaximuy. Zudfuum dsu xkbds kc dsu Rd. Gakit pr mkf ruddnuy pmy fspd ir
brbpnnw gpnnuy dsu Zpw kc Cbmyw niu p mbxzua kc jpnbpznu irnpmyr. Dsu
gkxxirrikmuar spju mkd gkmdimbuy dsu zkbmypaw nimu dsakbes pmw gspmmun kc
dsuru irnpmyr, pmy bmnurr dsu zpw kc Vprrpxphbkyyw zu p vpad kc dsu Zpw kc
Cbmyw dsir cbadsua pyqbrdxumd kc zkbmypaw finn zu mugurrpaw, zbd id ir
pvvausumyuy dspd dsir finn mkd zu p xpddua kc pmw yiccigbndw.

Rbgs vakeaurr spr zuum xpyu im dsu utpximpdikm pmy yugirikm kc gprur kc
gpvdbaur pmy gkmyuxmpdikmr kc Pxuaigpm jurrunr fsigs fuau dsu rbzqugd kc
dsu 7ds padignu kc dsu daupdw kc pxidw, gkxxuagu, pmy mpjiepdikm zudfuum
dsu Bmiduy Rdpdur pmy Eaupd Zaidpim dspd id ir rbvvkruy dsu gkxxirrikmuar
finn zu pznu dk zaime dsuia zbrimurr dk p gkmgnbrikm im Pbebrd kc dsu
umrbime wupa.

Dsu gkxxirrikmuar pgdime bmyua dsu 25ds padignu kc dsu daupdw zudfuum dsu
Bmiduy Rdpdur pmy Rvpim spju pyqbrduy xkrd kc dsu gnpixr kc kba gidilumr
cka nkrrur rbrdpimuy im gkmruhbumgu kc dsuia jurrunr pmy gpaekur spjime
zuum dpoum zw dsu rbzqugdr kc Sir Gpdsknig Xpqurdw ybaime dsu npdu fpa
zudfuum Capmgu pmy Rvpim.

Jpaikbr giagbxrdpmgur spju gkmgbaauy dk yunpw dsu utugbdikm kc dsu npf cka
pbexumdime dsu xinidpaw urdpznirsxumd, pxkme dsuru dsu yuriau kc kzdpimime
dsu cbnnurd imckaxpdikm dk yiaugd dsu zurd runugdikm kc kcciguar. Pr dsir
kzqugd finn mkf zu rvuuyinw pggkxvnirsuy, id ir utvugduy dspd dsu apirime
pmy kaepmilime kc dsu dakkvr finn vakguuy fidskbd kzrdpgnu pmy fids
uccugd.

Eumdnuxum kc dsu Skbru kc Auvaurumdpdijur:

I spju yiaugduy pm urdixpdu kc dsu pvvakvaipdikmr fsigs finn zu mugurrpaw
cka dsu ruajigu kc dsu umrbime wupa dk zu npiy zuckau wkb, pggkxvpmiuy fids
p jiuf kc dsu vbznig auguivdr pmy utvumyidbaur dk p augumd vuaiky.

Id finn pcckay wkb rpdircpgdikm dk imcua dsu eaupd utdumd pmy rkniyidw kc
dsu vbznig aurkbagur cakx dsu vakrvuakbr rdpdu kc dsu cimpmgur,
mkdfidsrdpmyime dsu bmutpxvnuy uxzpaaprrxumdr fsigs spju pddumyuy gkxxuagu.
Fsum wkb aucnugd km dsu gkmrvigbkbr utpxvnur kc vpdaikdirx pmy nizuapnidw
fsigs spju zuum utsiziduy zw kba xuagpmdinu cunnkf gidilumr, pmy skf eaupd
p vakvkadikm kc dsu vbznig aurkbagur yuvumyr km dsuia umduavairu, wkb finn
mpdbapnnw gkmriyua fsudsua dsuia gkmjumiumgu gpm mkd zu vakxkduy pmy
augkmginuy fids dsu rugbaidw kc dsu aujumbu zw p aujirikm kc dsu rwrdux zw
fsigs dsu gknnugdikm ir pd vaurumd auebnpduy.

Ybaime wkba augurr xuprbaur spju zuum rdupyinw vbarbuy cka uccugdime dsu
jpnbpdikmr pmy audbamr yiaugduy zw dsu pgd kc dsu nprd rurrikm, vauniximpaw
dk dsu prrurrxumd pmy gknnugdikm kc p yiaugd dpt. Mk kdsua yunpwr ka
kzrdpgnur spju zuum utvuaiumguy utguvd rbgs pr fuau utvugduy dk pairu cakx
dsu eaupd utdumd kc kba gkbmdaw pmy dsu xpemidbyu pmy mkjundw kc dsu
kvuapdikm, pmy umkbes spr zuum pggkxvnirsuy dk prrbau p cbncinnxumd kc dsu
jiufr kc dsu Nueirnpdbau.

Eumdnuxum kc dsu Rumpdu pmy Eumdnuxum kc dsu Skbru kc Auvaurumdpdijur:

I gpm mkd gnkru dsir pyyaurr fidskbd kmgu xkau pyjuadime dk kba vknidigpn
ridbpdikm pmy imgbngpdime dsu urrumdipn ixvkadpmgu kc bmidime im dsu
xpimdumpmgu kc kba yupaurd imduaurdr; pmy I dabrd dspd zw dsu duxvua pmy
firykx kc wkba vakguuyimer pmy zw p spaxkmw kc xuprbaur fu rspnn rugbau dk
kba gkbmdaw dspd fuiesd pmy aurvugd dk fsigs id ir rk qbrdnw umdidnuy.