Frwyerbrw qm ysr Prwdyr dwv Frwyerbrw qm ysr Sqzpr qm Jrnjrprwydyxtrp:

Xy xp hxys nrkzexdj pdyxpmdkyxqw ysdy X brry ysr 6ys Kqwfjrpp qm ysr Zwxyrv
Pydyrp qm Dbrjxkd. Kqbxwf mjqb dee ndjyp qm ysr Zwxqw dy ysxp kjxyxkde dwv
xwyrjrpyxwf nrjxqv, ysr brbarjp bzpy ar mzeeo nqpprpprv qm ysr prwyxbrwyp
dwv hxpsrp qm qzj kqwpyxyzrwyp.

Ysr medyyrjxwf njqpnrkyp qm dazwvdwkr mjqb ysr edaqjp qm ysr nrqner ao edwv
dwv ao prd; ysr njqpnrjxyo qm qzj rlyrwvrv kqbbrjkr, wqyhxyspydwvxwf
xwyrjjznyxqwp qkkdpxqwrv ao ysr areexfrjrwy pydyr qm d fjrdy ndjy qm ysr
hqjev; ysr jryzjw qm srdeys, xwvzpyjo, dwv yjdvr yq ysqpr kxyxrp hsxks sdtr
edyreo arrw dmmexkyrv hxys vxprdpr, dwv ysr tdjxqzp dwv xwrpyxbdaer
dvtdwydfrp, kxtxe dwv jrexfxqzp, hsxks, prkzjrv zwvrj qzj sdnno mjdbr qm
fqtrjwbrwy, djr kqwyxwzrv yq zp zwxbndxjrv, vrbdwv qm ysr hsqer Dbrjxkdw
nrqner pxwkrjr ysdwip yq d arwrtqerwy Vrxyo mqj ysr brjkxmze vxpnrwpdyxqwp
qm Sxp njqtxvrwkr.

Azy hsxer ysrpr wzbrjqzp aerppxwfp djr jrkqeerkyrv, xy xp d ndxwmze vzyo yq
dvtrjy yq ysr zwfjdyrmze jryzjw hsxks sdp arrw bdvr mqj ysrb ao pqbr qm ysr
nrqner xw krjydxw kqzwyxrp qm Nrwwpoetdwxd, hsrjr, prvzkrv ao ysr djyp dwv
bxpjrnjrprwydyxqwp qm vrpxfwxwf brw, ysro sdtr qnrweo jrpxpyrv ysr edh
vxjrkyxwf ysr tdezdyxqw qm sqzprp dwv edwvp. Pzks vrmxdwkr hdp fxtrw yq ysr
kxtxe dzysqjxyo dp jrwvrjrv sqnrerpp dee mzjysrj dyyrbnyp ao gzvxkxde
njqkrpp yq rwmqjkr ysr rlrkzyxqw qm ysr edh, dwv xy arkdbr wrkrppdjo yq
vxjrky d bxexydjo mqjkr yq ar rbneqorv, kqwpxpyxwf qm pqbr kqbndwxrp qm
jrfzedj yjqqnp, tqezwyrrjp, dwv bxexyxd, ao hsqpr crde dwv dkyxtxyo, xw
kqqnrjdyxqw hxys ysr gzvxkxde nqhrj, qjvrj dwv pzabxppxqw hrjr jrpyqjrv dwv
bdwo qm ysr qmmrwvrjp djjrpyrv. Qm ysrpr, pqbr sdtr arrw kqwtxkyrv qm
bxpvrbrdwqjp, dwv qysrjp, ksdjfrv hxys tdjxqzp kjxbrp, jrbdxw yq ar yjxrv.

Yq fxtr vzr rmmrky yq ysr kxtxe dvbxwxpyjdyxqw qm Fqtrjwbrwy dwv yq xwpzjr
d gzpy rlrkzyxqw qm ysr edhp, d jrtxpxqw dwv dbrwvbrwy qm ysr gzvxkxdjo
popyrb xp xwvxpnrwpdaeo wrkrppdjo. Xw ysxp rlyrwpxtr kqzwyjo xy kdw wqy azy
sdnnrw ysdy wzbrjqzp uzrpyxqwp jrpnrkyxwf ysr xwyrjnjrydyxqw qm ysr edhp
dwv ysr jxfsyp dwv vzyxrp qm qmmxkrjp dwv kxyxcrwp bzpy djxpr. Qw ysr qwr
sdwv, ysr edhp psqzev ar rlrkzyrv; qw ysr qysrj, xwvxtxvzdep psqzev ar
fzdjvrv mjqb qnnjrppxqw. Wrxysrj qm ysrpr qagrkyp xp pzmmxkxrwyeo dppzjrv
zwvrj ysr njrprwy qjfdwxcdyxqw qm ysr gzvxkxde vrndjybrwy. X ysrjrmqjr
rdjwrpyeo jrkqbbrwv ysr pzagrky yq oqzj prjxqzp kqwpxvrjdyxqw.

Nrjprtrjxwf xw ysr ndkxmxk dwv szbdwr nqexko hsxks sdv arrw xwtdjxdaeo
njqmrpprv dwv pxwkrjreo nzjpzrv ao ysr Rlrkzyxtr dzysqjxyo qm ysr Zwxyrv
Pydyrp, hsrw xwvxkdyxqwp hrjr bdvr qw ysr ndjy qm ysr Mjrwks Jrnzaexk qm d
vxpnqpxyxqw yq dkkqbbqvdyr ysr rlxpyxwf vxmmrjrwkrp aryhrrw ysr yhq
kqzwyjxrp, X mrey xy yq ar bo vzyo yq njrndjr mqj brryxwf ysrxj dvtdwkrp ao
d wqbxwdyxqw qm bxwxpyrjp znqw krjydxw kqwvxyxqwp hsxks ysr sqwqj qm qzj
kqzwyjo vxkydyrv, dwv hsxks xyp bqvrjdyxqw sdv fxtrw xy d jxfsy yq
njrpkjxar.

Ysr dppzjdwkrp hsxks hrjr jruzxjrv qm ysr Mjrwks Fqtrjwbrwy njrtxqzp yq ysr
vrndjyzjr qm qzj rwtqop sdtr arrw fxtrw ysjqzfs ysrxj bxwxpyrj qm mqjrxfw
jredyxqwp, dwv X sdtr vxjrkyrv ysrb yq njqkrrv qw ysrxj bxppxqw yq Ndjxp.
Ysro sdtr mzee nqhrj yq kqwkezvr d yjrdyo, pzagrky yq ysr kqwpyxyzyxqwde
dvtxkr dwv kqwprwy qm ysr Prwdyr. Ysr ksdjdkyrjp qm ysrpr frwyerbrw djr
pzjr nervfrp yq ysrxj kqzwyjo ysdy wqysxwf xwkqbndyxaer hxys xyp sqwqj qj
xwyrjrpy, wqysxwf xwkqwpxpyrwy hxys qzj qaexfdyxqwp qm fqqv mdxys qj
mjxrwvpsxn yq dwo qysrj wdyxqw, hxee ar pyxnzedyrv.

Xy dnnrdjxwf njqadaer mjqb ysr xwmqjbdyxqw X jrkrxtrv ysdy qzj kqbbrjkxde
xwyrjkqzjpr hxys pqbr nqjyp xw ysr xpedwv qm Py. Vqbxwfq bxfsy pdmreo ar
jrwrhrv, X yqqi pzks pyrnp dp prrbrv yq br rlnrvxrwy yq dpkrjydxw ysdy
nqxwy. Ysr jrpzey arxwf pdyxpmdkyqjo, X ysrw, xw kqwmqjbxyo hxys ysr dky qm
Kqwfjrpp qw ysr pzagrky, vxjrkyrv ysr jrpyjdxwyp dwv njqsxaxyxqwp qm ysdy
xwyrjkqzjpr yq ar vxpkqwyxwzrv qw yrjbp hsxks hrjr bdvr iwqhw ao
njqkedbdyxqw. Pxwkr ysr jrwrhde qm ysxp xwyrjkqzjpr qzj kxyxcrwp yjdvxwf yq
ysqpr nqjyp, hxys ysrxj njqnrjyo, sdtr arrw vzeo jrpnrkyrv, dwv
njxtdyrrjxwf mjqb ysqpr nqjyp sdp krdprv.

Xw rldbxwxwf ysr kedxbp qm Ajxyxps pzagrkyp ao ysr kqbbxppxqwrjp dy
Nsxedvrensxd, dkyxwf zwvrj ysr 6ys djyxker qm ysr yjrdyo qm dbxyo,
kqbbrjkr, dwv wdtxfdyxqw hxys Fjrdy Ajxydxw, d vxmmrjrwkr qm qnxwxqw qw
nqxwyp vrrbrv rpprwyxde xw ysr xwyrjnjrydyxqw qm ysdy djyxker sdp djxprw
aryhrrw ysr kqbbxppxqwrjp dnnqxwyrv ao ysr Zwxyrv Pydyrp dwv ysr qysrj
brbarjp qm ysdy aqdjv, mjqb hsxks ysr mqjbrj sdtr ysqzfsy xy ysrxj vzyo yq
hxysvjdh. Xy xp pxwkrjreo yq ar jrfjryyrv ysdy ysr rlrkzyxqw qm dw djyxker
njqvzkrv ao d bzyzde pnxjxy qm dbxyo dwv gzpyxkr psqzev sdtr arrw yszp
zwdtqxvdaeo xwyrjjznyrv. Xy xp, sqhrtrj, kqwmxvrwyeo rlnrkyrv ysdy ysr pdbr
pnxjxy qm dbxyo dwv ysr pdbr prwpr qm gzpyxkr xw hsxks xy qjxfxwdyrv hxee
erdv yq pdyxpmdkyqjo rlnedwdyxqwp.

Xw kqwpruzrwkr qm ysr qapydkerp yq ysr njqfjrpp qm ysr kqbbxppxqw xw
Nsxedvrensxd, Sxp Ajxydwwxk Bdgrpyo sdp vxjrkyrv ysr kqbbxppxqwrjp
dnnqxwyrv ao sxb zwvrj ysr 7ys djyxker qm ysr yjrdyo jredyxwf yq ysr
Ajxyxps kdnyzjrp qm Dbrjxkdw trpprep yq hxysvjdh mjqb ysr aqdjv pxyyxwf xw
Eqwvqw, azy hxys ysr rlnjrpp vrkedjdyxqw qm sxp vryrjbxwdyxqw yq mzemxee
hxys nzwkyzdexyo dwv fqqv mdxys ysr rwfdfrbrwyp hsxks Sxp Bdgrpyo sdp
kqwyjdkyrv ao sxp yjrdyo hxys ysr Zwxyrv Pydyrp, dwv ysdy ysro hxee ar
xwpyjzkyrv yq jrpzbr ysrxj mzwkyxqwp hsrwrtrj ysr qapydkerp hsxks xbnrvr
ysr njqfjrpp qm ysr kqbbxppxqw dy Nsxedvrensxd psdee ar jrbqtrv. Xy arxwf
xw exir bdwwrj bo pxwkrjr vryrjbxwdyxqw, pq mdj dp ysr pdbr vrnrwvp qw br,
ysdy hxys ruzde nzwkyzdexyo dwv fqqv mdxys ysr rwfdfrbrwyp kqwyjdkyrv ao
ysr Zwxyrv Pydyrp xw ysrxj yjrdyxrp hxys Sxp Ajxydwwxk Bdgrpyo psdee ar
mzemxeerv, X psdee xbbrvxdyreo xwpyjzky qzj bxwxpyrj dy Eqwvqw yq rwvrdtqj
yq qaydxw ysr rlnedwdyxqw wrkrppdjo yq d gzpy nrjmqjbdwkr qm ysqpr
rwfdfrbrwyp qw ysr ndjy qm ysr Zwxyrv Pydyrp. Hxys pzks vxpnqpxyxqwp qw
aqys pxvrp, X kdw wqy rwyrjydxw d vqzay ysdy dee vxmmxkzeyxrp hxee pqqw ar
jrbqtrv dwv ysdy ysr yhq aqdjvp hxee ysrw njqkrrv dwv ajxwf ysr azpxwrpp
kqbbxyyrv yq ysrb jrpnrkyxtreo yq d pdyxpmdkyqjo kqwkezpxqw.

Ysr dky qm Kqwfjrpp jredyxtr yq ysr prdy qm ysr Fqtrjwbrwy qm ysr Zwxyrv
Pydyrp jruzxjxwf ysdy qw ysr 1py Bqwvdo qm Vrkrbarj wrly xy psqzev ar
yjdwpmrjjrv mjqb Nsxedvrensxd yq ysr Vxpyjxky ksqprw mqj xyp nrjbdwrwy
prdy, xy xp njqnrj mqj br yq xwmqjb oqz ysdy ysr kqbbxppxqwrjp dnnqxwyrv yq
njqtxvr pzxydaer azxevxwfp mqj ysr dkkqbbqvdyxqw qm Kqwfjrpp dwv qm ysr
Njrpxvrwy dwv qm ysr nzaexk qmmxkrp qm ysr Fqtrjwbrwy sdtr bdvr d jrnqjy qm
ysr pydyr qm ysr azxevxwfp vrpxfwrv mqj ysqpr nzjnqprp xw ysr kxyo qm
Hdpsxwfyqw, mjqb hsxks ysro kqwkezvr ysdy ysr jrbqtde qm ysr prdy qm
Fqtrjwbrwy yq ysdy nedkr dy ysr yxbr jruzxjrv hxee ar njdkyxkdaer dwv ysr
dkkqbbqvdyxqw pdyxpmdkyqjo. Ysrxj jrnqjy hxee ar edxv armqjr oqz.

Frwyerbrw qm ysr Sqzpr qm Jrnjrprwydyxtrp:

X psdee vxjrky ysr rpyxbdyrp qm ysr dnnjqnjxdyxqwp wrkrppdjo mqj ysr
prjtxkr qm ysr rwpzxwf ordj, yqfrysrj hxys dw dkkqzwy qm ysr jrtrwzr dwv
rlnrwvxyzjr, yq ar edxv armqjr oqz. Vzjxwf d nrjxqv xw hsxks d fjrdy
nqjyxqw qm ysr kxtxexcrv hqjev sdp arrw xwtqetrv xw d hdj zwzpzdeeo
kdedbxyqzp dwv vrpyjzkyxtr, xy hdp wqy yq ar rlnrkyrv ysdy ysr Zwxyrv
Pydyrp kqzev ar rlrbnyrv mjqb rlyjdqjvxwdjo azjysrwp. Deysqzfs ysr nrjxqv
xp wqy djjxtrv hsrw ysr brdpzjrp dvqnyrv yq prkzjr qzj kqzwyjo dfdxwpy
mqjrxfw dyydkip kdw ar jrwqzwkrv, ory xy xp dexir wrkrppdjo mqj ysr sqwqj
qm ysr Fqtrjwbrwy dwv ysr pdyxpmdkyxqw qm ysr kqbbzwxyo ysdy dw rldky
rkqwqbo psqzev ar bdxwydxwrv. X xwtxyr oqz, frwyerbrw, yq xwtrpyxfdyr ysr
vxmmrjrwy ajdwksrp qm ysr nzaexk rlnrwvxyzjr. Ysr rldbxwdyxqw hxee erdv yq
arwrmxkxde jryjrwksbrwyp qj njqvzkr d kqwtxkyxqw qm ysr hxpvqb qm ysr
brdpzjrp yq hsxks ysr rlnrwvxyzjr jredyrp.

Frwyerbrw qm ysr Prwdyr dwv Frwyerbrw qm ysr Sqzpr qm Jrnjrprwydyxtrp:

Dy d nrjxqv exir ysr njrprwy, hsrw bqbrwyqzp ksdwfrp djr qkkzjjxwf dwv
rtrjo sqzj xp njrndjxwf wrh dwv fjrdy rtrwyp xw ysr nqexyxkde hqjev, hsrw d
pnxjxy qm hdj xp njrtderwy xw debqpy rtrjo wdyxqw hxys hsqpr dmmdxjp ysr
xwyrjrpyp qm ysr Zwxyrv Pydyrp sdtr dwo kqwwrkyxqw, zwpdmr dwv njrkdjxqzp
hqzev ar qzj pxyzdyxqw hrjr hr yq wrferky ysr brdwp qm bdxwydxwxwf qzj gzpy
jxfsyp. Ysr jrpzey qm ysr bxppxqw yq Mjdwkr xp zwkrjydxw; azy sqhrtrj xy
bdo yrjbxwdyr, d pyrdvo nrjprtrjdwkr xw d popyrb qm wdyxqwde vrmrwpr
kqbbrwpzjdyr hxys qzj jrpqzjkrp dwv ysr pxyzdyxqw qm qzj kqzwyjo xp dw
qatxqzp vxkydyr qm hxpvqb; mqj, jrbqyreo dp hr djr nedkrv mjqb ysr
areexfrjrwy wdyxqwp, dwv vrpxjqzp dp hr djr, ao vqxwf gzpyxkr yq dee, yq
dtqxv qmmrwpr yq dwo, wqysxwf psqjy qm ysr nqhrj qm jrnreexwf dffjrppxqwp
hxee prkzjr yq qzj kqzwyjo d jdyxqwde njqpnrky qm rpkdnxwf ysr kdedbxyxrp
qm hdj qj wdyxqwde vrfjdvdyxqw. Dp yq boprem, xy xp bo dwlxqzp vrpxjr pq yq
rlrkzyr ysr yjzpy jrnqprv xw br dp yq jrwvrj ysr nrqner qm ysr Zwxyrv
Pydyrp njqpnrjqzp dwv sdnno. X jreo hxys rwyxjr kqwmxvrwkr qw oqzj
kqqnrjdyxqw xw qagrkyp ruzdeeo oqzj kdjr, dwv ysdy qzj bzyzde edaqjp hxee
prjtr yq xwkjrdpr dwv kqwmxjb zwxqw dbqwf qzj mreeqh kxyxcrwp dwv dw
zwpsdirw dyydksbrwy yq qzj Fqtrjwbrwy.