Pzydhzqzy xw duz Azyvdz vyi Pzydhzqzy xw duz Uxmaz xw Ezkezazydvdrcza:

Rqqzirvdzht vwdze duz vijxmeyqzyd xw Nxypezaa vd duzre hvad azaarxy ry
Kurhvizhkurv R pvcz irezndrxya, ry nxqkhrvynz frdu duz hvfa, wxe duz
ezqxcvh xw duz kmohrn xwwrnza, eznxeia, vyi kexkzedt. Duzaz irezndrxya uvcz
ozzy zbznmdzi, vyi duz kmohrn xwwrnzea uvcz arynz ezarizi vyi nxyimndzi duz
xeiryvet omaryzaa xw duz Pxczeyqzyd ry dura khvnz.

R nxypevdmhvdz duz kzxkhz xw duz Myrdzi Advdza xy duz vaazqohryp xw
Nxypezaa vd duz kzeqvyzyd azvd xw duzre Pxczeyqzyd, vyi R nxypevdmhvdz txm,
pzydhzqzy, xy duz kexakznd xw v ezarizynz yxd dx oz nuvypzi. Vhduxmpu duzez
ra nvmaz dx vkkezuzyi duvd vnnxqqxivdrxya vez yxd yxf ax nxqkhzdz va qrpud
oz frauzi, tzd duzez ra pezvd ezvaxy dx ozhrzcz duvd dura rynxyczyrzynz
frhh nzvaz frdu duz kezazyd azaarxy.

Rd fxmhi oz myoznxqryp duz ezkezazydvdrcza xw dura yvdrxy dx vaazqohz wxe
duz wread drqz ry dura axhzqy dzqkhz frduxmd hxxgryp mk dx duz Amkezqz
Emhze xw duz Myrczeaz vyi rqkhxeryp Ura ohzaaryp.

Qvt dura dzeerdxet oz duz ezarizynz xw credmz vyi uvkkryzaa! Ry dura nrdt
qvt duvd krzdt vyi credmz, duvd fraixq vyi qvpyvyrqrdt, duvd nxyadvynt vyi
azhw-pxczeyqzyd, furnu vixeyzi duz pezvd nuvevndze fuxaz yvqz rd ozvea oz
wxezcze uzhi ry czyzevdrxy! Uzez vyi duexmpuxmd xme nxmydet qvt arqkhz
qvyyzea, kmez qxevha, vyi demz ezhrprxy whxmerau wxezcze!

Rd ra frdu txm, pzydhzqzy, dx nxyarize fuzduze duz hxnvh kxfzea xcze duz
Iradernd xw Nxhmqorv czadzi ot duz Nxyadrdmdrxy ry duz Nxypezaa xw duz
Myrdzi Advdza auvhh oz rqqzirvdzht zbzenrazi. Rw ry txme xkryrxy dura
rqkxedvyd demad xmpud yxf dx oz zbznmdzi, txm nvy yxd wvrh furhz kzewxeqryp
rd dx dvgz rydx crzf duz wmdmez kexovohz ardmvdrxy xw duz dzeerdxet wxe duz
uvkkryzaa xw furnu txm vez voxmd dx kexcriz. Txm frhh nxyarize rd va duz
nvkrdvh xw v pezvd yvdrxy vicvynryp frdu myzbvqkhzi evkrirdt ry veda, ry
nxqqzenz, ry fzvhdu, vyi ry kxkmhvdrxy, vyi kxaazaaryp frdury rdazhw duxaz
zyzeprza vyi ezaxmenza furnu, rw yxd duexfy vfvt xe hvqzydvoht qrairezndzi,
frhh aznmez dx rd v hxyp nxmeaz xw kexakzerdt vyi azhw-pxczeyqzyd.

Ry nxqkhrvynz frdu v hvf xw duz hvad azaarxy xw Nxypezaa, duz xwwrnzea vyi
axhirzea xw duz dzqkxevet veqt uvcz ozzy iranuvepzi. Rd vwwxeia ezvh
khzvamez dx eznxhhznd duz uxyxevohz dzadrqxyt duzt pvcz xw duz kvderxdrn
qxdrcza furnu oexmpud duzq rydx duz azecrnz xw duzre nxmydet, ot duz
ezviryzaa vyi ezpmhverdt frdu furnu duzt ezdmeyzi dx duz advdrxy xw kercvdz
nrdrszya.

Rd ra ry zczet kxryd xw crzf xw amnu kerqvet rqkxedvynz dx nveet duz hvfa
rydx kexqkd vyi wvrduwmh zbznmdrxy, vyi dx ezyize duvd kved xw duz
viqryradevdrxy xw jmadrnz furnu duz Nxyadrdmdrxy vyi hvfa izcxhcz xy duz
Wzizevh nxmeda va nxyczyrzyd dx duz kzxkhz va qvt nxyarad frdu duzre
kezazyd nrenmqadvynza, duvd R nvy yxd xqrd xynz qxez dx eznxqqzyi dx txme
azerxma nxyarizevdrxy duz jmirnrvet atadzq xw duz Myrdzi Advdza. Yx amojznd
ra qxez rydzezadryp duvy dura dx duz kmohrn uvkkryzaa, vyi dx yxyz nvy
duxaz rqkexczqzyda furnu qvt uvcz ozzy amppzadzi ot zbkzerzynz oz qxez
ozyzwrnrvhht vkkhrzi.

V dezvdt xw vqrdt vyi nxqqzenz frdu duz Gryp xw Kemaarv uva ozzy nxynhmizi
vyi evdrwrzi. Duz evdrwrnvdrxya uvcz ozzy zbnuvypzi, vyi R uvcz irezndzi
duz dezvdt dx oz kexqmhpvdzi ot kexnhvqvdrxy.

Duz irwwrnmhdrza furnu amakzyizi duz zbznmdrxy xw duz 6du vedrnhz xw xme
dezvdt xw vqrdt, nxqqzenz, vyi yvcrpvdrxy frdu Pezvd Oerdvry uvcz yxd tzd
ozzy ezqxczi. Duz yzpxdrvdrxy xy dura amojznd ra adrhh izkzyiryp. Va rd
qmad oz wxe duz rydzezad vyi uxyxe xw oxdu yvdrxya dx vijmad dura
irwwzezynz frdu pxxi wvrdu, R ryimhpz nxywrizydht duz zbkzndvdrxy duvd duz
arynzez zyizvcxea xw duz Pxczeyqzyd xw duz Myrdzi Advdza dx oeryp rd dx vy
vqrnvohz dzeqryvdrxy frhh yxd oz iravkkxrydzi.

Duz zycxta zbdevxeiryvet vyi qryradzea khzyrkxdzydrvet wexq duz Myrdzi
Advdza dx Wevynz fzez eznzrczi ot duz Wread Nxyamh frdu duz ezakznd imz dx
duzre nuvevndze, vyi 3 kzeaxya frdu zlmvh kxfzea fzez vkkxrydzi dx dezvd
frdu duzq. Vhduxmpu vd duz ivdz xw duz hvad xwwrnrvh rydzhhrpzynz duz
yzpxdrvdrxy uvi yxd dzeqryvdzi, tzd rd ra dx oz uxkzi duvd xme zwwxeda dx
zwwznd vy vnnxqqxivdrxy frhh vd hzypdu qzzd frdu v amnnzaa kexkxedrxyzi dx
duz arynzerdt frdu furnu duzt uvcz ozzy ax xwdzy ezkzvdzi.

Furhz xme ozad zyizvcxea wxe duz kezazecvdrxy xw uveqxyt frdu vhh yvdrxya
frhh nxydrymz dx oz mazi, duz zbkzerzynz xw duz fxehi vyi xme xfy
zbkzerzynz viqxyrau ma xw duz ryaznmerdt xw demadryp dxx nxywrizydht dx
duzre amnnzaa. Fz nvy yxd, frduxmd nxqqrddryp v ivypzexma rqkemizynz,
vovyixy duxaz qzvameza xw azhw kexdzndrxy furnu vez vivkdzi dx xme
ardmvdrxy vyi dx furnu, yxdfrduadvyiryp xme kvnrwrn kxhrnt, duz crxhzynz
vyi ryjmadrnz xw xduzea qvt vpvry nxqkzh ma dx ezaxed. Furhz xme cvad
zbdzyd xw azv nxvad, duz nxqqzenrvh vyi vpernmhdmez uvorda xw xme kzxkhz,
duz pezvd nvkrdvh duzt frhh nxydrymz dx demad xy duz xnzvy, amppzad duz
atadzq xw izwzyaz furnu frhh oz qxad ozyzwrnrvh dx xmeazhcza, xme iradvynz
wexq Zmexkz vyi xme ezaxmenza wxe qverdrqz adezypdu frhh zyvohz ma dx
zqkhxt rd frdu zwwznd. Azvaxyvohz vyi atadzqvdrn veevypzqzyda, ax wve va
xme ezaxmenza frhh jmadrwt, wxe v yvct vivkdzi dx izwzyarcz fve, vyi furnu
qvt ry nvaz xw yznzaardt oz lmrnght oexmpud rydx maz, azzq dx oz va qmnu
eznxqqzyizi ot v fraz vyi demz znxyxqt va ot v jmad ezpvei wxe xme wmdmez
devylmrhhrdt, wxe duz avwzdt xw xme auxeza, vyi wxe duz kexdzndrxy xw xme
kexkzedt nxqqrddzi dx duz xnzvy.

Duz kezazyd Yvct xw duz Myrdzi Advdza, nvhhzi amiizyht rydx zbradzynz ot v
pezvd yvdrxyvh zbrpzynt, uva evrazi ma ry xme xfy zadzzq, vyi ot duz
kexdzndrxy vwwxeizi dx xme nxqqzenz uva zwwzndzi dx duz zbdzyd xw xme
zbkzndvdrxya duz xojznda wxe furnu rd fva nezvdzi.

Ry nxyyzndrxy frdu v yvct xmpud dx oz nxydzqkhvdzi duz wxedrwrnvdrxy xw
axqz xw xme kerynrkvh azv kxeda vyi uveoxea. V cverzdt xw nxyarizevdrxya,
furnu frhh ezvirht amppzad duzqazhcza, mepz vy vddzydrxy dx dura qzvamez xw
keznvmdrxy. Dx prcz aznmerdt dx xme kerynrkvh kxeda nxyarizevohz amqa uvcz
vhezvit ozzy zbkzyizi, omd duz fxega ezqvry rynxqkhzdz. Rd ra wxe Nxypezaa
dx izdzeqryz fuzduze viirdrxyvh vkkexkervdrxya auvhh oz qviz ry xeize dx
ezyize nxqkzdzyd dx duz rydzyizi kmekxaza duz wxedrwrnvdrxya furnu uvcz
ozzy nxqqzynzi.

Duz qvymwvndmez xw veqa frdury duz Myrdzi Advdza adrhh rycrdza duz
vddzydrxy xw duz Yvdrxyvh Hzprahvdmez. Vd v nxyarizevohz zbkzyaz dx duz
kmohrn dura qvymwvndmez uva ozzy oexmpud dx amnu v advdz xw qvdmerdt va,
frdu nxydrymzi zynxmevpzqzyd, frhh amkzeaziz duz yznzaardt xw wmdmez
rqkxedvdrxya wexq wxezrpy nxmyderza.

Pzydhzqzy xw duz Uxmaz xw Ezkezazydvdrcza:

R auvhh ireznd duz zadrqvdza xw duz vkkexkervdrxya yznzaavet wxe duz
zyamryp tzve, dxpzduze frdu vy vnnxmyd xw duz kmohrn ezczymz vyi
zbkzyirdmez dx v hvdz kzerxi, dx oz hvri ozwxez txm. R xoazecz frdu qmnu
avdrawvndrxy duvd duz keximnd xw duz ezczymz imeryp duz kezazyd tzve uva
ozzy qxez nxyarizevohz duvy imeryp vyt wxeqze zlmvh kzerxi. Dura ezamhd
vwwxeia nxynhmarcz zcrizynz xw duz pezvd ezaxmenza xw dura nxmydet vyi xw
duz fraixq vyi zwwrnrzynt xw duz qzvameza furnu uvcz ozzy vixkdzi ot
Nxypezaa wxe duz kexdzndrxy xw nxqqzenz vyi kezazecvdrxy xw kmohrn nezird.

Pzydhzqzy xw duz Azyvdz vyi Pzydhzqzy xw duz Uxmaz xw Ezkezazydvdrcza:

Va xyz xw duz pevyi nxqqmyrdt xw yvdrxya, xme vddzydrxy ra reezaradroht
ievfy dx duz rqkxedvyd anzyza furnu ameexmyi ma. Rw duzt uvcz zburordzi vy
mynxqqxy kxedrxy xw nvhvqrdt, rd ra duz kexcrynz xw umqvyrdt dx izkhxez vyi
xw fraixq dx vcxri duz nvmaza furnu qvt uvcz keximnzi rd. Rw, dmeyryp xme
ztza uxqzfvei, fz wryi ezvaxy dx ezjxrnz vd duz kexakznd furnu kezazyda
rdazhw; rw fz kzenzrcz duz rydzerxe xw xme nxmydet kexakzexma, wezz, vyi
uvkkt; rw vhh zyjxt ry avwzdt, myize duz kexdzndrxy xw hvfa zqvyvdryp xyht
wexq duz pzyzevh frhh, duz wemrda xw duzre xfy hvoxe, fz xmpud dx wxedrwt
vyi nhryp dx duxaz ryadrdmdrxya furnu uvcz ozzy duz axmenz xw amnu ezvh
wzhrnrdt vyi ezarad frdu myvovdryp kzeazczevynz duz kexpezaa xw duxaz
ivypzexma ryyxcvdrxya furnu qvt irqryrau duzre rywhmzynz.

Dx txme kvderxdraq, pzydhzqzy, uva ozzy nxywrizi duz uxyxevohz imdt xw
pmveiryp duz kmohrn rydzezada; vyi furhz duz kvad ra dx txme nxmydet v amez
khzipz duvd rd frhh oz wvrduwmhht iranuvepzi, kzeqrd qz dx vaamez txm duvd
txme hvoxea dx kexqxdz duz pzyzevh uvkkryzaa frhh eznzrcz wexq qz duz qxad
szvhxma nxxkzevdrxy.