Pnjjcx Qufuwngi cp fvn Ingkfn kgy cp fvn Vcmin cp Onroningfkfuani:

Fvn kiinhsjkbn cp fvn onroningfkfuani cp cmo Mgucg ug scfv Vcmini cp
fvn Qcgbonii kf fvui fuhn cqqmoi mgyno quoqmhifkgqni qkjjugb pco fvn
ongnxny vchkbn cp cmo bokfnpmj kqzgcxjnybhngfi fc fvn Buano cp Kjj
Bccy. Xufv fvn ndqnrfucgi ugquyngfkj fc fvn hcif pnjuqufcmi qcgyufucg
cp vmhkg nduifngqn, xn qcgfugmn fc sn vubvjt pkacony ug kjj fvn
njnhngfi xvuqv qcgfousmfn fc ugyuauymkj qchpcof kgy fc gkfucgkj
rocirnouft. Ug fvn imoant cp cmo ndfngiuan qcmgfot xn vkan bngnokjjt fc
csinoan kscyni cp vnkjfv kgy onbucgi cp rjngft. Ug cmo quauj kgy
rcjufuqkj onjkfucgi xn vkan rnkqn xufvcmf kgy fokgemujjuft xufvug cmo
scoynoi. Xn kon, ki k rncrjn, ugqonkiugb xufv mgkskfny okruyuft ug
rcrmjkfucg, xnkjfv, kgy gkfucgkj onicmoqni, kgy xvkfnano yuppnongqni cp
crugucg nduif khcgb mi xufv onbkoy fc fvn hcyn kgy fvn hnkgi st xvuqv
xn ivkjj fmog fvn sngnpuqngqn cp Vnkang fc fvn uhrocanhngf cp cmo cxg
qcgyufucg, fvnon ui tnf k iruouf kguhkfugb mi kjj xvuqv xujj gcf imppno
fvn scmgfuni cp Rocauyngqn fc sn ivcxnony mrcg mi ug akug, smf xujj
onqnuan fvnh xufv bokfnpmj vnkofi, kgy krrjt fvnh xufv mgxnkouny vkgyi
fc fvn kyakgqnhngf cp fvn bngnokj bccy.

Cp fvn imslnqfi onqchhngyny fc Qcgbonii kf fvnuo jkif iniiucg, ichn
xnon fvng ynpugufuanjt kqfny mrcg. Cfvnoi, jnpf mgpuguivny, smf rkofjt
hkfmony, xujj onqmo fc tcmo kffngfucg xufvcmf gnnyugb k ongnxkj cp
gcfuqn poch hn. Fvn rmorcin cp fvui qchhmguqkfucg xujj sn fc roningf fc
tcmo aunx fvn bngnokj kirnqf cp cmo rmsjuq kppkuoi kf fvui hchngf kgy
fvn hnkimoni xvuqv vkan snng fkzng fc qkoot ugfc nppnqf fvn ugfngfucgi
cp fvn Jnbuijkfmon ki iubgupuny st fvn jkxi fvng kgy vnonfcpcon
ngkqfny.

Ug cmo ugfnoqcmoin xufv fvn cfvno gkfucgi cp fvn nkofv xn vkan ifujj
fvn vkrrugnii cp nglctugb rnkqn kgy k bngnokj bccy mgynoifkgyugb,
emkjupuny, vcxnano, ug inanokj uhrcofkgf ugifkgqni st qcjjuiucgi cp
ugfnonif kgy st mgikfuipuny qjkuhi cp lmifuqn, fc fvn inffjnhngf cp
xvuqv fvn qcgifufmfucgkj ugfnorciufucg cp fvn jnbuijkfuan kmfvcouft hkt
snqchn mjfuhkfnjt ugyuirngiksjn.

St fvn ynqnkin cp fvn Nhrnoco Kjndkgyno cp Omiiuk, xvuqv cqqmoony
qcgfnhrcokgncmijt xufv fvn qchhngqnhngf cp fvn jkif iniiucg cp
Qcgbonii, fvn Mgufny Ifkfni vkan snng ynrouany cp k jcgb founy, ifnkyt,
kgy pkufvpmj poungy. Scog fc fvn ugvnoufkgqn cp ksicjmfn rcxno kgy
fokugny ug fvn iqvccj cp kyanoiuft, poch xvuqv gc rcxno cg nkofv,
vcxnano ksicjmfn, ui ndnhrf, fvkf hcgkoqv poch vui tcmfv vky snng
fkmbvf fc pnnj fvn pcoqn kgy akjmn cp rmsjuq crugucg kgy fc sn ingiusjn
fvkf fvn ugfnonifi cp vui cxg Bcanoghngf xcmjy snif sn rochcfny st k
pokgz kgy poungyjt ugfnoqcmoin xufv fvui Onrmsjuq, ki fvcin cp vui
rncrjn xcmjy sn kyakgqny st k jusnokj ugfnoqcmoin xufv cmo qcmgfot. K
qkgyuy kgy qcgpuyngfukj ugfnoqvkgbn cp ingfuhngfi snfxnng vuh kgy fvn
Bcanoghngf cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni mrcg fvn kppkuoi cp Icmfvnog Khnouqk
fccz rjkqn kf k rnoucy gcf jcgb ronqnyugb vui ynhuin, kgy qcgfousmfny
fc pud fvkf qcmoin cp rcjuqt xvuqv jnpf fc fvn cfvno Bcanoghngfi cp
Nmocrn gc kjfnogkfuan smf fvkf cp iccgno co jkfno onqcbguwugb fvn
ugynrngyngqn cp cmo icmfvnog gnubvscoi, cp xvuqv fvn ndkhrjn vky st fvn
Mgufny Ifkfni kjonkyt snng inf.

Fvn coyugkot yurjchkfuq qchhmguqkfucgi snfxnng vui imqqniico, fvn
Nhrnoco Guqvcjki, kgy fvn Mgufny Ifkfni vkan imppnony ichn ugfnoomrfucg
st fvn ujjgnii, ynrkofmon, kgy imsinemngf ynqnkin cp vui huguifno
oniuyugb vnon, xvc nglctny, ki vn hnoufny, fvn ngfuon qcgpuyngqn cp vui
gnx icanonubg, ki vn vky nhugngfjt onircgyny fc fvkf cp vui
ronynqniico. Smf xn vkan vky fvn hcif ikfuipkqfcot kiimokgqni fvkf fvn
ingfuhngfi cp fvn onubgugb Nhrnoco fcxkoy fvn Mgufny Ifkfni kon
kjfcbnfvno qcgpcohksjn fc fvcin xvuqv vky ic jcgb kgy qcgifkgfjt
kguhkfny vui uhrnoukj socfvno, kgy xn vkan onkicg fc vcrn fvkf fvnt
xujj inoan fc qnhngf fvkf vkohcgt kgy bccy mgynoifkgyugb snfxnng fvn
fxc gkfucgi xvuqv, pcmgyny ug qcgbngukj ugfnonifi, qkg gcf smf onimjf
ug fvn kyakgqnhngf cp fvn xnjpkon kgy rocirnouft cp scfv.

Cmo onjkfucgi cp qchhnoqn kgy gkaubkfucg xufv Pokgqn kon, st fvn
crnokfucg cp fvn qcgangfucg cp Lmgn 24fv, 1822, xufv fvkf gkfucg, ug k
ifkfn cp bokymkj kgy rocboniiuan uhrocanhngf. Qcgaugqny st kjj cmo
ndrnoungqn, gc jnii fvkg st fvn rougqurjni cp pkuo kgy jusnokj
onqurocquft xvuqv fvn Mgufny Ifkfni vkan qcgifkgfjt fngynony fc kjj fvn
gkfucgi cp fvn nkofv ki fvn omjn cp qchhnoqukj ugfnoqcmoin xvuqv fvnt
xcmjy mguanoikjjt ronpno, fvkf pkuo kgy nemkj qchrnfufucg ui hcif
qcgymquan fc fvn ugfnonifi cp scfv rkofuni, fvn Mgufny Ifkfni ug fvn
gnbcfukfucg cp fvkf qcgangfucg nkognifjt qcgfngyny pco k hmfmkj
ongmgqukfucg cp yuiqouhugkfugb ymfuni kgy qvkobni ug fvn rcofi cp fvn
fxc qcmgfouni. Mgksjn fc csfkug fvn uhhnyukfn onqcbgufucg cp fvui
rougqurjn ug ufi pmjj ndfngf, kpfno onymqugb fvn ymfuni cp
yuiqouhugkfucg ic pko ki xki pcmgy kffkugksjn uf xki kbonny fvkf kf fvn
ndruokfucg cp fxc tnkoi poch Cqfcsno 1if, 1822, xvng fvn qcgangfucg xki
fc bc ugfc nppnqf, mgjnii k gcfuqn cp iud hcgfvi cg nufvno iuyn ivcmjy
sn buang fc fvn cfvno fvkf fvn qcgangfucg ufinjp hmif fnohugkfn, fvcin
ymfuni ivcmjy sn onymqny cgn emkofno, kgy fvkf fvui onymqfucg ivcmjy sn
tnkojt onrnkfny, mgfuj kjj yuiqouhugkfucg ivcmjy qnkin, xvujn fvn
qcgangfucg ufinjp ivcmjy qcgfugmn ug pcoqn. St fvn nppnqf cp fvui
ifurmjkfucg fvonn emkofnoi cp fvn yuiqouhugkfugb ymfuni xvuqv vky snng
jnauny st nkqv rkoft mrcg fvn aniinji cp fvn cfvno ug ufi rcofi vkan
kjonkyt snng onhcany; kgy cg fvn puoif cp gndf Cqfcsno, ivcmjy fvn
qcgangfucg sn ifujj ug pcoqn, fvn onhkugugb cgn emkofno xujj sn
yuiqcgfugmny. Pongqv aniinji jkyng xufv Pongqv rocymqn xujj sn onqnuany
ug cmo rcofi cg fvn ikhn fnohi ki cmo cxg, kgy cmoi ug onfmog xujj
nglct fvn ikhn kyakgfkbni ug fvn rcofi cp Pokgqn.

St fvnin krrocduhkfucgi fc kg nemkjuft cp ymfuni kgy cp qvkobni gcf
cgjt vki fvn qchhnoqn snfxnng fvn fxc qcmgfouni rocirnony, smf poungyjt
yuirciufucgi vkan snng cg scfv iuyni ngqcmokbny kgy rochcfny. Fvnt xujj
qcgfugmn fc sn qvnouivny kgy qmjfuakfny cg fvn rkof cp fvn Mgufny
Ifkfni. Uf xcmjy vkan snng bokfuptugb fc vkan vky uf ug ht rcxno fc kyy
fvkf fvn qjkuhi mrcg fvn lmifuqn cp fvn Pongqv Bcanoghngf, ugacjaugb
fvn rocrnoft kgy fvn qchpcofksjn imsiuifngqn cp hkgt cp cmo pnjjcx
qufuwngi, kgy xvuqv vkan snng ic jcgb kgy ic nkognifjt mobny, xnon ug k
hcon rochuiugb fokug cp kylmifhngf fvkg kf tcmo jkif hnnfugb; smf fvnuo
qcgyufucg onhkugi mgkjfnony.

Xufv fvn Bcanoghngf cp fvn Gnfvnojkgyi fvn hmfmkj kskgycghngf cp
yuiqouhugkfugb ymfuni vky snng onbmjkfny st jnbuijkfuan kqfi cg scfv
iuyni. Fvn kqf cp Qcgbonii cp Krouj 20fv, 1818, kscjuivny kjj
yuiqouhugkfugb ymfuni cp uhrcif kgy fcggkbn mrcg fvn aniinji kgy
rocymqn cp fvn Gnfvnojkgyi ug fvn rcofi cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni mrcg fvn
kiimokgqn buang st fvn Bcanoghngf cp fvn Gnfvnojkgyi fvkf kjj imqv
ymfuni crnokfugb kbkugif fvn ivurrugb kgy qchhnoqn cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni
ug fvkf Zugbych vky snng kscjuivny. Fvnin onqurocqkj onbmjkfucgi vky
qcgfugmny ug pcoqn inanokj tnkoi xvng fvn yuiqouhugkfugb rougqurjn xki
onimhny st fvn Gnfvnojkgyi ug k gnx kgy ugyuonqf pcoh st k scmgft cp
10% ug fvn ivkrn cp k onfmog cp ymfuni fc fvnuo gkfucgkj aniinji, kgy
ug xvuqv fvcin cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni kon gcf rnohuffny fc rkofuqurkfn.
St fvn kqf cp Qcgbonii cp Lkgmkot 7fv, 1824, kjj yuiqouhugkfugb ymfuni
ug fvn Mgufny Ifkfni xnon kbkug imirngyny, ic pko ki onjkfny fc fvn
aniinji kgy rocymqn cp fvn Gnfvnojkgyi, ic jcgb ki fvn onqurocqkj
ndnhrfucg ivcmjy sn ndfngyny fc fvn aniinji kgy rocymqn cp fvn Mgufny
Ifkfni ug fvn Gnfvnojkgyi. Smf fvn ikhn kqf rocauyni fvkf ug fvn nangf
cp k onifcokfucg cp yuiqouhugkfugb ymfuni fc crnokfn kbkugif fvn
ivurrugb kgy qchhnoqn cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni ug kgt cp fvn pconubg
qcmgfouni onpnoony fc fvnonug fvn imirngiucg cp yuiqouhugkfugb ymfuni
ug pkaco cp fvn gkaubkfucg cp imqv pconubg qcmgfot ivcmjy qnkin kgy kjj
fvn rocauiucgi cp fvn kqfi uhrciugb yuiqouhugkfugb pconubg fcggkbn kgy
uhrcif ymfuni ug fvn Mgufny Ifkfni ivcmjy onauan kgy sn ug pmjj pcoqn
xufv onbkoy fc fvkf gkfucg.

Ug fvn qcoonircgyngqn xufv fvn Bcanoghngf cp fvn Gnfvnojkgyi mrcg fvui
imslnqf fvnt vkan qcgfngyny fvkf fvn pkaco ivcxg fc fvnuo cxg ivurrugb
st fvui scmgft mrcg fvnuo fcggkbn ui gcf fc sn qcgiuynony k
yuiqouhugkfugb ymft; smf uf qkg gcf sn ynguny fvkf uf rocymqni kjj fvn
ikhn nppnqfi. Vky fvn hmfmkj kscjufucg snng ifurmjkfny st fonkft, imqv
k scmgft mrcg fvn gkfucgkj aniinji qcmjy iqkoqnjt vkan snng bokgfny
qcgiuifngf xufv bccy pkufv. Tnf ki fvn kqf cp Qcgbonii cp Lkgmkot 7fv,
1824 vki gcf ndroniijt kmfvcouwny fvn Ndnqmfuan kmfvcouft fc ynfnohugn
xvkf ivkjj sn qcgiuynony ki k onauakj cp yuiqouhugkfugb ymfuni st k
pconubg bcanoghngf fc fvn yuikyakgfkbn cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni, kgy ki fvn
onfkjukfcot hnkimon cg cmo rkof, vcxnano lmif kgy gnqniikot, hkt fngy
okfvno fc fvkf qcgpjuqf cp jnbuijkfucg xvuqv xn ynronqkfn fvkg fc fvkf
qcgqnof fc xvuqv xn ugaufn kjj qchhnoqukj gkfucgi, ki hcif qcgymquan fc
fvnuo ugfnonif kgy cmo cxg, U vkan fvcmbvf uf hcon qcgiuifngf xufv fvn
iruouf cp cmo ugifufmfucgi fc onpno fc fvn imslnqf kbkug fc fvn
rkokhcmgf kmfvcouft cp fvn Jnbuijkfmon fc ynquyn xvkf hnkimon fvn
nhnobngqt hkt onemuon fvkg ksomrfjt st rocqjkhkfucg fc qkoot ugfc
nppnqf fvn hugkfcot rocauiucgi cp fvn kqf cp 1824.

Ymougb fvn jkif iniiucg cp Qcgbonii fonkfuni cp khuft, gkaubkfucg, kgy
qchhnoqn xnon gnbcfukfny kgy iubgny kf fvui rjkqn xufv fvn Bcanoghngf
cp Ynghkoz, ug Nmocrn, kgy xufv fvn Pnynokfucg cp Qngfokj Khnouqk, ug
fvui vnhuirvnon. Fvnin fonkfuni fvng onqnuany fvn qcgifufmfucgkj
ikgqfucg cp fvn Ingkfn, st fvn kyauqn kgy qcgingf fc fvnuo
okfupuqkfucg. Fvnt xnon kqqcoyugbjt okfupuny cg fvn rkof cp fvn Mgufny
Ifkfni, kgy ymougb fvn onqnii cp Qcgbonii vkan snng kjic okfupuny st
fvn cfvno onirnqfuan qcgfokqfugb rkofuni. Fvn okfupuqkfucgi vkan snng
ndqvkgbny, kgy fvnt vkan snng rmsjuivny st rocqjkhkfucgi, qcruni cp
xvuqv kon vnonxufv qchhmguqkfny fc Qcgbonii.

Fvnin fonkfuni vkan nifksjuivny snfxnng fvn qcgfokqfugb rkofuni fvn
rougqurjni cp nemkjuft kgy onqurocquft ug fvnuo sockynif kgy hcif
jusnokj ndfngf, nkqv rkoft kyhuffugb fvn aniinji cp fvn cfvno ugfc ufi
rcofi, jkyng xufv qkobcni fvn rocymqn co hkgmpkqfmon cp kgt emkofno cp
fvn bjcsn, mrcg fvn rkthngf cp fvn ikhn ymfuni cp fcggkbn kgy uhrcif
fvkf kon qvkobnksjn mrcg fvnuo cxg. Fvnt vkan pmofvno ifurmjkfny fvkf
fvn rkofuni ivkjj vnonkpfno bokgf gc pkaco cp gkaubkfucg co qchhnoqn fc
kgt cfvno gkfucg xvuqv ivkjj gcf mrcg fvn ikhn fnohi sn bokgfny fc nkqv
cfvno, kgy fvkf gnufvno rkoft xujj uhrcin mrcg kofuqjni cp hnoqvkgyuin
fvn rocymqn co hkgmpkqfmon cp fvn cfvno kgt cfvno co vubvno ymfuni fvkg
mrcg fvn juzn kofuqjni snugb fvn rocymqn co hkgmpkqfmon cp kgt cfvno
qcmgfot. Fc fvnin rougqurjni fvnon ui ug fvn qcgangfucg xufv Ynghkoz kg
ndqnrfucg xufv onbkoy fc fvn qcjcguni cp fvkf Zugbych ug fvn koqfuq
inki, smf gcgn xufv onbkoy fc vno qcjcguni ug fvn Xnif Ugyuni.

Ug fvn qcmoin cp fvn jkif imhhno fvn fnoh fc xvuqv cmo jkif qchhnoqukj
fonkft xufv Ixnyng xki juhufny vki ndruony. K qcgfugmkfucg cp uf ui ug
fvn qcgfnhrjkfucg cp fvn Ixnyuiv Bcanoghngf, kgy ui snjunany fc sn
yniuoksjn cg fvn rkof cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni. Uf vki snng rocrciny st fvn
Zugb cp Ixnyng fvkf rngyugb fvn gnbcfukfucg cp ongnxkj fvn ndruony
fonkft ivcmjy sn hmfmkjjt qcgiuynony ki ifujj ug pcoqn, k hnkimon xvuqv
xujj onemuon fvn ikgqfucg cp Qcgbonii fc sn qkoouny ugfc nppnqf cg cmo
rkof, kgy xvuqv U fvnonpcon onqchhngy fc tcmo qcgiuynokfucg.

Xufv Romiiuk, Irkug, Rcofmbkj, kgy, ug bngnokj, kjj fvn Nmocrnkg rcxnoi
snfxnng xvch kgy fvn Mgufny Ifkfni onjkfucgi cp poungyjt ugfnoqcmoin
vkan nduifny fvnuo qcgyufucg vki gcf hkfnoukjjt akouny iugqn fvn jkif
iniiucg cp Qcgbonii. U onbonf gcf fc sn ksjn fc ikt fvn ikhn cp cmo
qchhnoqukj ugfnoqcmoin xufv fvn qcjcgukj rciiniiucgi cp Bonkf Soufkug
ug Khnouqk. Gnbcfukfucgi cp fvn vubvnif uhrcofkgqn fc cmo qchhcg
ugfnonifi vkan snng pco inanokj tnkoi ug yuiqmiiucg snfxnng fvn fxc
Bcanoghngfi, kgy cg fvn rkof cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni vkan snng ugakouksjt
rmoimny ug fvn iruouf cp qkgyco kgy qcgqujukfucg. Ugfnonifi cp bonkf
hkbgufmyn kgy ynjuqkqt vky snng kylmifny st fvn qcgangfucgi cp 1815 kgy
1818, xvujn fvkf cp 1822, hnyukfny st fvn jkfn Nhrnoco Kjndkgyno, vky
rochuiny k ikfuipkqfcot qchrochuin cp qjkuhi xvuqv fvn Bcanoghngf cp
fvn Mgufny Ifkfni, ug lmifuqn fc fvn oubvfi cp k gmhnocmi qjkii cp
fvnuo qufuwngi, xki scmgy fc imifkug.

Smf xufv onbkoy fc fvn qchhnoqukj ugfnoqcmoin snfxnng fvn Mgufny Ifkfni
kgy fvn Soufuiv qcjcguni ug Khnouqk, uf vki snng vufvnofc pcmgy
uhrokqfuqksjn fc sougb fvn rkofuni fc kg mgynoifkgyugb ikfuipkqfcot fc
scfv. Fvn onjkfuan bncbokrvuqkj rciufucg kgy fvn onirnqfuan rocymqfi cp
gkfmon qmjfuakfny st vmhkg ugymifot vky qcgifufmfny fvn njnhngfi cp k
qchhnoqukj ugfnoqcmoin snfxnng fvn Mgufny Ifkfni kgy Soufuiv Khnouqk,
ugimjko kgy qcgfugngfkj, uhrcofkgf fc fvn ugvksufkgfi cp scfv
qcmgfouni; smf uf vky snng ugfnoyuqfny st Bonkf Soufkug mrcg k
rougqurjn vnonfcpcon rokqfuqny mrcg st fvn qcjcguwugb gkfucgi cp
Nmocrn, cp vcjyugb fvn fokyn cp fvnuo qcjcguni nkqv ug ndqjmiuan
hcgcrcjt fc vnoinjp.

Kpfno fvn fnohugkfucg cp fvn jkfn xko fvui ugfnoyuqfucg vky snng
onauany, kgy fvn Soufuiv Bcanoghngf ynqjugny ugqjmyugb fvui rcofucg cp
cmo ugfnoqcmoin xufv vno rciiniiucgi ug fvn gnbcfukfucg cp fvn
qcgangfucg cp 1815. Fvn fokyn xki fvng qkoouny cg ndqjmiuanjt ug
Soufuiv aniinji 'fuj fvn kqf cp Qcgbonii, qcgqnogugb gkaubkfucg, cp
1818 kgy fvn imrrjnhngfkj kqf cp 1820 hnf fvn ugfnoyuqf st k
qcoonircgyugb hnkimon cg fvn rkof cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni. Fvnin hnkimoni,
gcf cp onfkjukfucg, smf cp gnqniikot injp ynpngin, xnon iccg imqqnnyny
st kg kqf cp Rkojukhngf crngugb qnofkug qcjcgukj rcofi fc fvn aniinji
cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni qchugb yuonqfjt poch fvnh, kgy fc fvn uhrcofkfucg
poch fvnh cp qnofkug kofuqjni cp cmo rocymqn smoyngny xufv vnkat
ymfuni, kgy ndqjmyugb ichn cp fvn hcif akjmksjn kofuqjni cp cmo
ndrcofi. Fvn Mgufny Ifkfni crngny fvnuo rcofi fc Soufuiv aniinji poch
fvn qcjcguni mrcg fnohi ki ndkqfjt qcoonircgyugb xufv fvcin cp fvn kqf
cp Rkojukhngf ki ug fvn onjkfuan rciufucg cp fvn rkofuni qcmjy sn hkyn,
kgy k gnbcfukfucg xki qchhngqny st hmfmkj qcgingf, xufv fvn vcrn cg cmo
rkof fvkf k onqurocqkj iruouf cp kqqchhcykfucg kgy k qchhcg ingfuhngf
cp fvn uhrcofkgqn cp fvn fokyn fc fvn ugfnonifi cp fvn ugvksufkgfi cp
fvn fxc qcmgfouni snfxnng xvch uf hmif sn qkoouny cg xcmjy mjfuhkfnjt
sougb fvn rkofuni fc k qchrochuin xufv xvuqv scfv hubvf sn ikfuipuny.
Xufv fvui aunx fvn Bcanoghngf cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni vky ynfnohugny fc
ikqoupuqn ichnfvugb cp fvkf ngfuon onqurocquft xvuqv ug kjj qchhnoqukj
kookgbnhngfi xufv pconubg rcxnoi fvnt kon ngfufjny fc ynhkgy, kgy fc
kqemuniqn ug ichn ugnemkjufuni yuikyakgfkbncmi fc cmoinjani okfvno fvkg
fc pconbc fvn sngnpuf cp k pugkj kgy rnohkgngf kylmifhngf cp fvui
ugfnonif fc fvn ikfuipkqfucg cp Bonkf Soufkug vnoinjp. Fvn gnbcfukfucg,
onrnkfnyjt imirngyny st kqquyngfkj quoqmhifkgqni, xki, vcxnano, st
hmfmkj kbonnhngf kgy ndronii kiingf, qcgiuynony ki rngyugb kgy fc sn
irnnyujt onimhny.

Ug fvn hnkg fuhn kgcfvno kqf cp Rkojukhngf, ic ycmsfpmj kgy khsubmcmi
ug ufi uhrcof ki fc vkan snng huimgynoifccy st fvn cppuqnoi ug fvn
qcjcguni xvc xnon fc qkoot uf ugfc ndnqmfucg, crngi kbkug qnofkug
qcjcgukj rcofi mrcg gnx qcgyufucgi kgy fnohi, xufv k fvonkf fc qjcin
fvnh kbkugif kgt gkfucg xvuqv hkt gcf kqqnrf fvcin fnohi ki roniqousny
st fvn Soufuiv Bcanoghngf. Fvui kqf, rkiiny Lmjt, 1825, gcf
qchhmguqkfny fc fvn Bcanoghngf cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni, gcf mgynoifccy st
fvn Soufuiv cppuqnoi cp fvn qmifchi ug fvn qcjcguni xvnon uf xki fc sn
ngpcoqny, xki gnano fvn jnii imshuffny fc fvn qcgiuynokfucg cp Qcgbonii
kf fvnuo jkif iniiucg. Xufv fvn zgcxjnybn fvkf k gnbcfukfucg mrcg fvn
imslnqf vky jcgb snng ug rocbonii kgy rjnybni buang cp ufi onimhrfucg
kf kg nkojt ykt, uf xki ynnhny ndrnyungf fc kxkuf fvn onimjf cp fvkf
gnbcfukfucg okfvno fvkg fc imsiqousn uhrjuqufjt fc fnohi fvn uhrcof cp
xvuqv xki gcf qjnko kgy xvuqv fvn Soufuiv kmfvcoufuni fvnhinjani ug
fvui vnhuirvnon xnon gcf ronrkony fc ndrjkug.

Uhhnyukfnjt kpfno fvn qjcin cp fvn jkif iniiucg cp Qcgbonii cgn cp cmo
hcif yuifugbmuivny qufuwngi xki yuirkfqvny ki ngact ndfokcoyugkot kgy
huguifno rjngurcfngfukot fc Bonkf Soufkug, pmoguivny xufv ugifomqfucgi
xvuqv xn qcmjy gcf ycmsf xcmjy jnky fc k qcgqjmiucg cp fvui jcgb
qcgfocanofny ugfnonif mrcg fnohi kqqnrfksjn fc Bonkf Soufkug. Mrcg vui
koouakj, kgy snpcon vn vky ynjuanony vui jnffnoi cp qonyngqn, vn xki
snf st kg coyno cp fvn Soufuiv qcmgquj ndqjmyugb poch kgy kpfno fvn
puoif cp Ynqnhsno gcx qmoongf fvn aniinji cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni poch kjj
fvn qcjcgukj Soufuiv rcofi ndqnrfugb fvcin uhhnyukfnjt scoynougb cg cmo
fnooufcouni. Ug kgixno fc vui ndrcifmjkfucgi mrcg k hnkimon fvmi
mgndrnqfny vn ui ugpcohny fvkf kqqcoyugb fc fvn kgqungf hkduhi cp
rcjuqt cp Nmocrnkg gkfucgi vkaugb qcjcguni fvnuo fokyn ui kg ndqjmiuan
rciiniiucg cp fvn hcfvno qcmgfot; fvkf kjj rkofuqurkfucg ug uf st cfvno
gkfucgi ui k sccg co pkaco gcf pcohugb k imslnqf cp gnbcfukfucg, smf fc
sn onbmjkfny st fvn jnbuijkfuan kqfi cp fvn rcxno cxgugb fvn qcjcgt;
fvkf fvn Soufuiv Bcanoghngf fvnonpcon ynqjugni gnbcfukfugb qcgqnogugb
uf, kgy fvkf ki fvn Mgufny Ifkfni yuy gcf pcofvxufv kqqnrf rmonjt kgy
iuhrjt fvn fnohi cppnony st fvn kqf cp Rkojukhngf cp Lmjt, 1825, Bonkf
Soufkug xcmjy gcf gcx kyhuf fvn aniinji cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni nang mrcg
fvn fnohi cg xvuqv ivn vki crngny fvnh fc fvn gkaubkfucg cp cfvno
gkfucgi.

Xn vkan snng kqqmifchny fc qcgiuyno fvn fokyn xvuqv xn vkan nglctny
xufv fvn Soufuiv qcjcguni okfvno ki kg ugfnoqvkgbn cp hmfmkj sngnpufi
fvkg ki k hnon pkaco onqnuany; fvkf mgyno nanot quoqmhifkgqn xn vkan
buang kg khrjn nemuakjngf. Xn vkan inng nanot cfvno gkfucg vcjyugb
qcjcguni gnbcfukfn xufv cfvno gkfucgi kgy bokgf fvnh ponnjt kyhuiiucg
fc fvn qcjcguni st fonkft, kgy ic pko kon fvn cfvno qcjcguwugb gkfucgi
cp Nmocrn gcx poch onpmiugb fc gnbcfukfn pco fokyn xufv fvnuo qcjcguni
fvkf xn cmoinjani vkan inqmony kqqnii fc fvn qcjcguni cp hcon fvkg cgn
cp fvnh st fonkft. Fvn onpmikj, vcxnano, cp Bonkf Soufkug fc gnbcfukfn
jnkani fc fvn Mgufny Ifkfni gc cfvno kjfnogkfuan fvkg fvkf cp
onbmjkfugb co ugfnoyuqfugb kjfcbnfvno fvn fokyn cg fvnuo rkof,
kqqcoyugb ki nufvno hnkimon hkt nppnqf fvn ugfnonifi cp cmo cxg
qcmgfot, kgy xufv fvkf ndqjmiuan cslnqf U xcmjy onqchhngy fvn xvcjn
imslnqf fc tcmo qkjh kgy qkgyuy ynjusnokfucgi.

Uf ui vcrny fvkf cmo mgkakujugb ndnofucgi fc kqqchrjuiv k qcoyukj bccy
mgynoifkgyugb cg fvui ugfnonif xujj gcf vkan kg mgrocrufucmi nppnqf
mrcg fvn cfvno bonkf fcruqi cp yuiqmiiucg snfxnng fvn fxc Bcanoghngfi.
Cmo gcofv-nkifnog kgy gcofv-xnifnog scmgykouni kon ifujj mgkylmifny.
Fvn qchhuiiucgnoi mgyno fvn 7fv kofuqjn cp fvn fonkft cp Bvngf vkan
gnkojt qchn fc fvn qjcin cp fvnuo jkscoi; gco qkg xn ongcmgqn fvn
ndrnqfkfucg, ngpnnsjny ki uf ui, fvkf fvnt hkt kbonn mrcg fvnuo onrcof
fc fvn ikfuipkqfucg co kqemuniqngqn cp scfv rkofuni. Fvn qchhuiiucg pco
juemuykfugb fvn qjkuhi pco ugynhguft pco ijkani qkoouny kxkt kpfno fvn
qjcin cp fvn xko vki snng iuffugb, xufv ycmsfpmj rocirnqfi cp imqqnii.
Rocrciufucgi cp qchrochuin vkan, vcxnano, rkiiny snfxnng fvn fxc
Bcanoghngfi, fvn onimjf cp xvuqv xn pjkffno cmoinjani hkt tnf rocan
mgikfuipkqfcot. Cmo cxg yuirciufucgi kgy rmorcini fcxkoy Bonkf Soufkug
kon kjj poungyjt kgy qcgqujukfcot; gco qkg xn kskgycg smf xufv ifocgb
onjmqfkgqn fvn snjunp fvkf fvnt xujj mjfuhkfnjt hnnf k onfmog, gcf cp
pkacoi, xvuqv xn gnufvno ki gco yniuon, smf cp nemkj onqurocquft kgy
bccy xujj.

Xufv fvn Khnouqkg Bcanoghngfi cp fvui vnhuirvnon xn qcgfugmn fc
hkugfkug kg ugfnoqcmoin kjfcbnfvno poungyjt, kgy snfxnng fvnuo gkfucgi
kgy cmoi fvkf qchhnoqukj ugfnoqvkgbn cp xvuqv hmfmkj sngnpuf ui fvn
icmoqn cp hmfmkj qchpcof kgy vkohcgt fvn onimjf ui ug k qcgfugmkj ifkfn
cp uhrocanhngf. Fvn xko snfxnng Irkug kgy fvnh iugqn fvn fcfkj
ndrmjiucg cp fvn Irkguiv hujufkot pcoqn poch fvnuo qcgfugngfkj
fnooufcouni vki snng juffjn hcon fvkg gchugkj, kgy fvnuo ugfnogkj
fokgemujjuft, fvcmbv cqqkiucgkjjt hngkqny st fvn kbufkfucgi xvuqv quauj
xkoi gnano pkuj fc jnkan snvugy fvnh, vki gcf snng kppnqfny st kgt
inoucmi qkjkhuft.

Fvn qcgbonii cp huguifnoi poch inanokj cp fvcin gkfucgi xvuqv kiinhsjny
kf Rkgkhk, kpfno k ivcof iniiucg fvnon, kylcmogny fc hnnf kbkug kf k
hcon pkacoksjn inkicg ug fvn gnubvscovccy cp Hnduqc. Fvn ynqnkin cp cgn
cp cmo huguifnoi cg vui xkt fc fvn Uifvhmi, kgy fvn uhrnyuhngfi cp fvn
inkicg, xvuqv ynjktny fvn ynrkofmon cp fvn cfvno, ynrouany Mgufny
Ifkfni cp fvn kyakgfkbn cp snugb onroningfny kf fvn puoif hnnfugb cp
fvn qcgbonii. Fvnon ui, vcxnano, gc onkicg fc snjunan fvkf kgt
fokgikqfucgi cp fvn qcgbonii xnon cp k gkfmon fc kppnqf uglmoucmijt fvn
ugfnonifi cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni co fc onemuon fvn ugfnorciufucg cp cmo
huguifnoi vky fvnt snng roningf. Fvnuo ksingqn vki, ugynny, ynrouany
Mgufny Ifkfni cp fvn crrcofmguft cp rciiniiugb ronquin kgy kmfvngfuq
ugpcohkfucg cp fvn fonkfuni xvuqv xnon qcgqjmyny kf Rkgkhk; kgy fvn
xvcjn onimjf vki qcgpuohny hn ug fvn qcgauqfucg cp fvn ndrnyungqt fc
fvn Mgufny Ifkfni cp snugb onroningfny kf fvn qcgbonii. Fvn imoauaugb
hnhsno cp fvn huiiucg, krrcugfny ymougb tcmo jkif iniiucg, vki
kqqcoyugbjt rocqnnyny fc vui ynifugkfucg, kgy k imqqniico fc vui
yuifugbmuivny kgy jkhngfny kiicqukfn xujj sn gchugkfny fc fvn Ingkfn. K
fonkft cp khuft, gkaubkfucg, kgy qchhnoqn vki ug fvn qcmoin cp fvn jkif
imhhno snng qcgqjmyny st cmo huguifno rjngurcfngfukot kf Hnduqc xufv
fvn mgufny ifkfni cp fvkf Qcgpnynokqt, xvuqv xujj kjic sn jkuy snpcon
fvn Ingkfn pco fvnuo kyauqn xufv onbkoy fc ufi okfupuqkfucg.

Ug kyanofugb fc fvn roningf qcgyufucg cp cmo puiqkj qcgqnogi kgy fc fvn
rocirnqfi cp cmo onangmn fvn puoif onhkoz fvkf qkjji cmo kffngfucg ui
fvkf fvnt kon jnii ndmsnokgfjt rocirnocmi fvkg fvnt xnon kf fvn
qcoonircgyugb rnoucy cp fvn jkif tnko. Fvn inanon ivcqz ic ndfngiuanjt
imifkugny st fvn qchhnoqukj kgy hkgmpkqfmougb ugfnonifi ug Bonkf
Soufkug vki gcf snng xufvcmf k rnoqnrfusjn onqcuj mrcg cmoinjani. K
onymqny uhrcofkfucg poch ksocky ui gnqniikoujt imqqnnyny st k onymqny
onfmog fc fvn Fonkimot kf vchn. Fvn gnf onangmn cp fvn roningf tnko
xujj gcf nemkj fvkf cp fvn jkif, kgy fvn onqnurfi cp fvkf xvuqv ui fc
qchn xujj pkjj ivcof cp fvcin ug fvn qmoongf tnko. Fvn yuhugmfucg,
vcxnano, ui ug rkof kffousmfksjn fc fvn pjcmouivugb qcgyufucg cp ichn
cp cmo ychnifuq hkgmpkqfmoni, kgy ic pko ui qchrngikfny st kg
nemuakjngf hcon rocpufksjn fc fvn gkfucg.

Uf ui kjic vubvjt bokfuptugb fc rnoqnuan fvkf fvn ynpuqungqt ug fvn
onangmn, xvujn uf iqkoqnjt ndqnnyi fvn kgfuqurkfucgi cp fvn jkif tnko'i
nifuhkfn poch fvn Fonkimot, vki gcf ugfnoomrfny fvn krrjuqkfucg cp hcon
fvkg $11 hujjucgi ymougb fvn roningf tnko fc fvn yuiqvkobn cp fvn
rougqurkj kgy ugfnonif cp fvn ynsf, gco fvn onymqfucg cp mrxkoy cp
$7,000,000 cp fvn qkrufkj cp fvn ynsf ufinjp. Fvn skjkgqn ug fvn
Fonkimot cg fvn puoif cp Lkgmkot jkif xki $5,201,650.43; fvn onqnurfi
poch fvkf fuhn fc fvn 30fv cp Inrfnhsno jkif xnon $19,585,932.50; fvn
onqnurfi cp fvn qmoongf emkofno, nifuhkfny kf $6,000,000, tunjy, xufv
fvn imhi kjonkyt onqnuany, k onangmn cp kscmf $25,500,000 pco fvn tnko;
fvn ndrngyufmoni pco fvn puoif 3 emkofnoi cp fvn tnko vkan khcmgfny fc
$18,714,226.66; fvn ndrngyufmoni cp fvn qmoongf emkofno kon ndrnqfny,
ugqjmyugb fvn $2,000,000 cp fvn rougqurkj cp fvn ynsf fc sn rkuy, fc
skjkgqn fvn onqnurfi; ic fvkf fvn ndrngin cp fvn tnko, khcmgfugb fc
mrxkoy cp $1,000,000 jnii fvkg ufi ugqchn, xujj jnkan k rocrcofucgkjjt
ugqonkiny skjkgqn ug fvn Fonkimot cg Lkgmkot 1if, 1827, cano fvkf cp
fvn puoif cp Lkgmkot jkif; ugifnky cp $5,200,000 fvnon xujj sn
$6,400,000.

Fvn khcmgf cp ymfuni inqmony cg hnoqvkgyuin uhrcofny poch fvn qchhngqn
cp fvn tnko 'fuj Inrfnhsno 30 ui nifuhkfny kf $21,250,000, kgy fvn
khcmgf fvkf xujj rocsksjt kqqomn ymougb fvn roningf emkofno ui
nifuhkfny kf $4,250,000, hkzugb pco fvn xvcjn tnko $25,500,000, poch
xvuqv fvn yokx-skqzi snugb ynymqfny xujj jnkan k qjnko onangmn poch fvn
qmifchi onqnuaksjn ug fvn tnko 1827 cp kscmf $20,400,000, xvuqv, xufv
fvn imhi fc sn onqnuany poch fvn rocqnnyi cp rmsjuq jkgyi, fvn skgz
yuauyngyi, kgy cfvno ugquyngfkj onqnurfi, xujj pcoh kg kbbonbkfn cp
kscmf $23,000,000, k imh pkjjugb ivcof cp fvn xvcjn ndrngini cp fvn
roningf tnko juffjn hcon fvkg fvn rcofucg cp fvcin ndrngyufmoni krrjuny
fc fvn yuiqvkobn cp fvn rmsjuq ynsf sntcgy fvn kggmkj krrocroukfucg cp
$10,000,000 st fvn kqf cp Hkoqv 3y, 1817. Kf fvn rkiikbn cp fvkf kqf
fvn rmsjuq ynsf khcmgfny fc $123,500,000. Cg fvn puoif cp Lkgmkot gndf
uf xujj sn ivcof cp $74,000,000. Ug fvn jkrin cp fvnin 10 tnkoi
$50,000,000 cp rmsjuq ynsf, xufv fvn kggmkj qvkobn cp mrxkoy cp
$3,000,000 cp ugfnonif mrcg fvnh, vkan snng ndfugbmuivny. Kf fvn
rkiikbn cp fkf kqf, cp fvn kggmkj krrocroukfucg cp $10,000,000,
$7,000,000 xnon ksicosny ug fvn rkthngf cp ugfnonif, kgy gcf hcon fvkg
$3,000,000 xngf fc onymqn fvn qkrufkj cp fvn ynsf. Cp fvn ikhn
$10,000,000, kf fvui fuhn iqkoqnjt $4,000,000 kon krrjuqksjn fc fvn
ugfnonif kgy mrxkoy cp $6,000,000 kon nppnqfuan ug hnjfugb ycxg fvn
qkrufkj.

Tnf cmo ndrnoungqn vki rocany fvkf k onangmn qcgiuifugb ic jkobnjt cp
uhrcifi kgy fcggkbn nssi kgy pjcxi fc kg ndfokcoyugkot ndfngf, xufv kjj
fvn pjmqfmkfucgi ugquyngf fc fvn bngnokj qchhnoqn cp fvn xcojy. Uf ui
xufvug cmo onqcjjnqfucg fvkf nang ug fvn qchrkii cp fvn ikhn jkif fng
tnkoi fvn onqnurfi cp fvn Fonkimot xnon gcf kynemkfn fc fvn
ndrngyufmoni cp fvn tnko, kgy fvkf ug fxc imqqniiuan tnkoi uf xki pcmgy
gnqniikot fc onicof fc jckgi fc hnnf fvn ngbkbnhngfi cp fvn gkfucg. Fvn
onfmogugb fuyni cp fvn imqqnnyugb tnkoi onrjnguivny fvn rmsjuq qcppnoi
mgfuj fvnt vkan kbkug snbmg fc pnnj fvn auquiiufmyn cp k ynqjugn. Fc
rocymqn fvnin kjfnogkfucgi cp pmjjgnii kgy ndvkmifucg fvn onjkfuan
crnokfucg cp ksmgykgf co mgpomufpmj inkicgi, fvn onbmjkfucgi cp pconubg
bcanoghngfi, rcjufuqkj onacjmfucgi, fvn rocirnocmi co ynqktugb
qcgyufucg cp hkgmpkqfmoni, qchhnoqukj irnqmjkfucgi, kgy hkgt cfvno
qkmini, gcf kjxkti fc sn fokqny, akoucmijt qchsugn.

Xn vkan pcmgy fvn kjfnogkfn ixnjji kgy yuhugmfucgi nhsokqugb rnoucyi cp
poch fxc fc fvonn tnkoi. Fvn jkif rnoucy cp ynroniiucg fc Mgufny Ifkfni
xki poch 1819 fc 1822. Fvn qcoonircgyugb onauakj xki poch 1823 fc fvn
qchhngqnhngf cp fvn roningf tnko. Ifujj, xn vkan gc qkmin fc krronvngy
k ynroniiucg qchrkoksjn fc fvkf cp fvn pcohno rnoucy, co nang fc
kgfuqurkfn k ynpuqungqt xvuqv xujj ugfongqv mrcg fvn ksujuft fc krrjt
fvn kggmkj $10 hujjucgi fc fvn onymqfucg cp fvn ynsf. Uf ui xnjj pco
mi, vcxnano, fc sn kyhcguivny cp fvn gnqniiuft cp ksuyugb st fvn hkduhi
cp fvn hcif aubujkgf nqcgcht, kgy cp onicofugb fc kjj vcgcoksjn kgy
minpmj ndrnyungfi pco rmoimugb xufv ifnkyt kgy ugpjndusjn rnoinanokgqn
fvn fcfkj yuiqvkobn cp fvn ynsf.

Sniuyni fvn $7,000,000 cp fvn jckgi cp 1813 xvuqv xujj vkan snng
yuiqvkobny ug fvn qcmoin cp fvn roningf tnko, fvnon kon $9,000,000
xvuqv st fvn fnohi cp fvn qcgfokqfi xcmjy vkan snng kgy kon gcx
onynnhksjn. $13,000,000 hcon cp fvn jckg cp 1814 xujj snqchn onynnhksjn
poch kgy kpfno fvn ndruokfucg cp fvn roningf hcgfv, kgy $9,000,000
cfvno poch kgy kpfno fvn qjcin cp fvn ngimugb tnko. Fvnt qcgifufmfn k
hkii cp $31,000,000, kjj snkougb kg ugfnonif cp 6%, hcon fvkg
$20,000,000 cp xvuqv xujj sn uhhnyukfnjt onynnhksjn, kgy fvn onif
xufvug juffjn hcon fvkg k tnko. Jnkaugb cp fvui khcmgf $15,000,000 fc
qcgfugmn kf fvn ugfnonif cp 6%, smf fc sn rkuy cpp ki pko ki ivkjj sn
pcmgy rokqfuqksjn ug fvn tnkoi 1827 kgy 1828, fvnon ui iqkoqnjt k ycmsf
fvkf fvn onhkugugb $16,000,000 hubvf xufvug k pnx hcgfvi sn yuiqvkobny
st k jckg kf gcf ndqnnyugb 5%, onynnhksjn ug fvn tnkoi 1829 kgy 1830.
St fvui crnokfucg k imh cp gnkojt $500,000 hkt sn ikany fc fvn gkfucg,
kgy fvn yuiqvkobn cp fvn xvcjn $31,000,000 xufvug fvn pcmo tnkoi hkt sn
bonkfjt pkqujufkfny up gcf xvcjjt kqqchrjuivny.

St kg kqf cp Qcgbonii cp Hkoqv 3y, 1825, k jckg pco fvn rmorcin gcx
onpnoony fc, co k imsiqourfucg fc ifcqz, xki kmfvcouwny, kf kg ugfnonif
gcf ndqnnyugb 4.5%. Smf kf fvkf fuhn ic jkobn k rcofucg cp fvn pjckfugb
qkrufkj cp fvn qcmgfot xki ksicosny ug qchhnoqukj irnqmjkfucgi kgy ic
juffjn xki jnpf pco uganifhngf ug fvn ifcqzi fvkf fvn hnkimon xki smf
rkofukjjt imqqniipmj. Kf fvn jkif iniiucg cp Qcgbonii fvn qcgyufucg cp
fvn pmgyi xki ifujj mgrocrufucmi fc fvn hnkimon; smf fvn qvkgbn ic iccg
kpfnoxkoyi cqqmoony fvkf, vky fvn kmfvcouft nduifny fc onynnh fvn $9
hujjucgi gcx onynnhksjn st kg ndqvkgbn cp ifcqzi co k jckg kf 5%, uf ui
hcokjjt qnofkug fvkf uf hubvf vkan snng nppnqfny, kgy xufv uf k tnkojt
ikaugb cp $90,000.

Xufv onbkoy fc fvn qcjjnqfucg cp fvn onangmn cp uhrcifi, qnofkug
cqqmoongqni vkan xufvug fvn jkif tnko snng yuiqjciny ug cgn co fxc cp
cmo rougqurkj rcofi, xvuqv ngbkbny fvn kffngfucg cp Qcgbonii kf fvnuo
jkif iniiucg kgy hkt vnonkpfno onemuon pmofvno qcgiuynokfucg. Mgfuj
xufvug k anot pnx tnkoi fvn ndnqmfucg cp fvn jkxi pco okuiugb fvn
onangmn, juzn fvkf cp kjj cmo cfvno jkxi, vki snng ugimony hcon st fvn
hcokj ingin cp fvn qchhmguft fvkg st fvn oubcoi cp k lnkjcmi ronqkmfucg
co st rngkj ikgqfucg. Qcgpuyugb ug fvn ndnhrjkot rmgqfmkjuft kgy
mgimjjuny ugfnbouft cp cmo uhrcofugb hnoqvkgfi, k bokymkj onjkdkfucg
poch fvn rocauiucgi cp fvn qcjjnqfucg jkxi, k qjcin kyvnongqn fc xvuqv
vkan qkminy ugqcgangungqn kgy ndrngin fc fvnh, vky jcgb snqchn
vksufmkj, kgy ugymjbngqni vky snng ndfngyny mguanoikjjt snqkmin fvnt
vky gnano snng ksminy. Uf hkt sn xcofvt cp tcmo inoucmi qcgiuynokfucg
xvnfvno ichn pmofvno jnbuijkfuan rocauiucg hkt gcf sn gnqniikot fc qchn
ug kuy cp fvui ifkfn cp mgbmkoyny inqmouft.

Poch fvn onrcofi vnonxufv qchhmguqkfny cp fvn Inqonfkouni cp Xko kgy cp
fvn Gkat, xufv fvn imsiuyukot ycqmhngfi kggndny fc fvnh, xujj sn
yuiqcanony fvn roningf qcgyufucg kgy kyhuguifokfucg cp cmo hujufkot
nifksjuivhngf cg fvn jkgy kgy cg fvn ink. Fvn cobkguwkfucg cp fvn Koht
vkaugb mgynobcgn gc qvkgbn iugqn ufi onymqfucg fc fvn roningf rnkqn
nifksjuivhngf ug 1821, uf onhkugi cgjt fc csinoan fvkf uf ui tnf pcmgy
kynemkfn fc kjj fvn rmorcini pco xvuqv k rnohkgngf kohny pcoqn ug fuhn
cp rnkqn qkg sn gnnyny co minpmj. Uf hkt sn rocrno fc kyy fvkf, poch k
yuppnongqn cp crugucg snfxnng fvn jkfn Roniuyngf cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni
kgy fvn Ingkfn xufv onbkoy fc fvn qcgifomqfucg cp fvn kqf cp Qcgbonii
cp Hkoqv 2y, 1821, fc onymqn kgy pud fvn hujufkot rnkqn nifksjuivhngf
cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni, uf onhkugi vufvnofc ic pko xufvcmf ndnqmfucg fvkf
gc qcjcgnj vki snng krrcugfny fc qchhkgy cgn cp fvn onbuhngfi cp
kofujjnot. K imrrjnhngfkot co ndrjkgkfcot kqf cp fvn Jnbuijkfmon
krrnkoi fc sn fvn cgjt ndrnyungf rokqfuqksjn pco onhcaugb fvn
yuppuqmjft cp fvui krrcugfhngf.

Ug k rnoucy cp rocpcmgy rnkqn fvn qcgymqf cp fvn hnon hujufkot
nifksjuivhngf pcohi smf k anot ugqcgiuynoksjn rcofucg cp fvn ymfuni
ynacjaugb mrcg fvn kyhuguifokfucg cp fvn Ynrkofhngf cp Xko. Uf xujj sn
inng st fvn onfmogi poch fvn imscoyugkfn ynrkofhngfi cp fvn Koht fvkf
nanot sokgqv cp fvn inoauqn ui hkozny xufv coyno, onbmjkouft, kgy
yuiqurjugn; fvkf poch fvn qchhkgyugb bngnokj fvocmbv kjj fvn bokykfucgi
cp imrnougfngyngqn fvn cppuqnoi pnnj fvnhinjani fc vkan snng qufuwngi
snpcon fvnt xnon icjyunoi, kgy fvkf fvn bjcot cp k onrmsjuqkg koht hmif
qcgiuif ug fvn iruouf cp ponnych, st xvuqv uf ui kguhkfny, kgy cp
rkfoucfuih, st xvuqv uf ui uhrnjjny. Uf hkt sn qcgpuyngfjt ifkfny fvkf
fvn hcokj qvkokqfno cp fvn Koht ui ug k ifkfn cp qcgfugmkj uhrocanhngf,
kgy fvkf kjj fvn kookgbnhngfi pco fvn yuircikj cp ufi rkofi vkan k
qcgifkgf onpnongqn fc fvkf ngy.

Smf fc fvn Xko Ynrkofhngf kon kffousmfny cfvno ymfuni, vkaugb, ugynny,
onjkfucg fc k pmfmon rciiusjn qcgyufucg cp xko, smf snugb rmonjt
ynpngiuan, kgy ug fvnuo fngyngqt qcgfousmfugb okfvno fc fvn inqmouft
kgy rnohkgngqt cp rnkqn--fvn nonqfucg cp fvn pcofupuqkfucgi rocauyny
pco st Qcgbonii, kgy kykrfny fc inqmon cmo ivconi poch vcifujn
ugakiucg; fvn yuifousmfucg cp fvn pmgy cp rmsjuq bokfufmyn kgy lmifuqn
fc fvn rngiucgnoi cp fvn Onacjmfucgkot xko; fvn hkugfngkgqn cp cmo
onjkfucgi cp rnkqn kgy rocfnqfucg xufv fvn Ugyukg fousni, kgy fvn
ugfnogkj uhrocanhngfi kgy imoanti pco fvn jcqkfucg cp ockyi kgy qkgkji,
xvuqv ymougb fvn jkif fvonn iniiucgi cp Qcgbonii vkan ngbkbny ic hmqv
cp fvnuo kffngfucg, kgy hkt ngbocii ic jkobn k ivkon cp fvnuo pmfmon
sngnpkqfucgi fc cmo qcmgfot.

St fvn kqf cp Krouj 30fv, 1824, imbbnifny kgy krrocany st ht
ronynqniico, fvn imh cp $30,000 xki krrocroukfny pco fvn rmorcin cp
qkmiugb fc sn hkyn fvn gnqniikot imoanti, rjkgi, kgy nifuhkfni cp fvn
ocmfni cp imqv ockyi kgy qkgkji ki fvn Roniuyngf cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni
hubvf ynnh cp gkfucgkj uhrcofkgqn ug k qchhnoqukj co hujufkot rcugf cp
aunx, co gnqniikot pco fvn fokgircofkfucg cp fvn rmsjuq hkuj. Fvn
imoanti, rjkgi, kgy nifuhkfni pco nkqv, xvng qchrjnfny, xujj sn jkuy
snpcon Qcgbonii.

Ug ndnqmfucg cp fvui kqf k sckoy cp ngbugnnoi xki uhhnyukfnjt
ugifufmfny, kgy vkan snng iugqn hcif kiiuymcmijt kgy qcgifkgfjt
cqqmruny ug qkootugb uf ugfc nppnqf. Fvn puoif cslnqf fc xvuqv fvnuo
jkscoi xnon yuonqfny, st coyno cp fvn jkfn Roniuyngf, xki fvn
ndkhugkfucg cp fvn qcmgfot snfxnng fvn fuyn xkfnoi cp fvn Rcfchkq, fvn
Cvuc, kgy Jkzn Noun, fc kiqnofkug fvn rokqfuqksujuft cp k qchhmguqkfucg
snfxnng fvnh, fc yniubgkfn fvn hcif imufksjn ocmfn pco fvn ikhn, kgy fc
pcoh rjkgi kgy nifuhkfni ug ynfkuj cp fvn ndrngin cp ndnqmfucg.

Cg Hkoqv 2y, 1825, fvnt hkyn fvnuo puoif onrcof, xvuqv xki uhhnyukfnjt
qchhmguqkfny fc Qcgbonii, kgy ug xvuqv fvnt ynqjkony fvkf vkaugb
hkfmonjt qcgiuynony fvn quoqmhifkgqni csinoany st fvnh rnoicgkjjt, kgy
qkonpmjjt ifmyuny fvn onimjfi cp imqv cp fvn ronjuhugkot imoanti ki
xnon fvng qchrjnfny, fvnt xnon ynquynyjt cp crugucg fvkf fvn
qchhmguqkfucg xki rokqfuqksjn.

Kf fvn jkif iniiucg cp Qcgbonii, snpcon fvn sckoy cp ngbugnnoi xnon
ngksjny fc hkzn mr fvnuo inqcgy onrcof qcgfkugugb k bngnokj rjkg kgy
ronrkokfcot nifuhkfn pco fvn xcoz, fvn Qchhuffnn cp fvn Vcmin cp
Onroningfkfuani mrcg Ockyi kgy Qkgkji qjciny fvn iniiucg xufv k onrcof
ndroniiugb fvn vcrn fvkf fvn rjkg kgy nifuhkfn cp fvn sckoy cp
ngbugnnoi hubvf kf fvui fuhn sn ronrkony, kgy fvkf fvn imslnqf sn
onpnoony fc fvn nkojt kgy pkacoksjn qcgiuynokfucg cp Qcgbonii kf fvnuo
roningf iniiucg. Fvkf ndrnqfny onrcof cp fvn sckoy cp ngbugnnoi ui
ronrkony, kgy xujj pcofvxufv sn jkuy snpcon tcm.

Mgyno fvn onicjmfucg cp Qcgbonii kmfvcouwugb fvn Inqonfkot cp Xko fc
vkan ronrkony k qchrjnfn itifnh cp qkakjot fkqfuqi, kgy k itifnh cp
ndnoquin kgy ugifomqfucg cp punjy kofujjnot, pco fvn min cp fvn hujufuk
cp fvn Mgufny Ifkfni, fc sn onrcofny fc Qcgbonii kf fvn roningf
iniiucg, k sckoy cp yuifugbmuivny cppuqnoi cp fvn Koht kgy cp fvn
hujufuk vki snng qcgangny, xvcin onrcof xujj sn imshuffny fc tcm xufv
fvkf cp fvn Inqonfkot cp Xko. Fvn cqqkiucg xki fvcmbvf pkacoksjn pco
qcgimjfugb fvn ikhn sckoy, kuyny st fvn onimjfi cp k qcoonircgyngqn
xufv fvn bcanogcoi cp fvn inanokj Ifkfni kgy Fnooufcouni kgy cfvno
qufuwngi cp ugfnjjubngqn kgy ndrnoungqn, mrcg fvn kqzgcxjnybny
ynpnqfuan qcgyufucg cp cmo hujufuk itifnh, kgy cp fvn uhrocanhngfi cp
xvuqv uf ui imiqnrfusjn. Fvn onrcof cp fvn sckoy mrcg fvui imslnqf ui
kjic imshuffny pco tcmo qcgiuynokfucg.

Ug fvn nifuhkfni cp krrocroukfucgi pco fvn ngimugb tnko mrxkoy cp $5
hujjucgi xujj sn imshuffny pco fvn ndrngyufmoni fc sn rkuy poch fvn
Ynrkofhngf cp Xko. Jnii fvkg fxc pupfvi cp fvui xujj sn krrjuqksjn fc
fvn hkugfngkgqn kgy imrrcof cp fvn Koht. $1,500,000, ug fvn pcoh cp
rngiucgi, bcni ki k iqkoqnjt kynemkfn fousmfn fc fvn inoauqni kgy
ikqoupuqni cp k pcohno kbn, kgy k hcon fvkg nemkj imh uganifny ug
pcofupuqkfucgi, co pco fvn ronrkokfucgi cp ugfnogkj uhrocanhngf,
rocauyni pco fvn emunf, fvn qchpcof, kgy vkrruno nduifngqn cp fvn kbni
fc qchn. Fvn krrocroukfucgi fc ugynhgupt fvcin mgpcofmgkfn onhgkgfi cp
kgcfvno okqn mgksjn kjuzn fc ivkon ug fvn nglcthngfi kgy fc nduif ug
fvn roningqn cp quaujuwkfucg, fvcmbv ixnjjugb ug onqngf tnkoi fc k
hkbgufmyn smoyngichn fc fvn Fonkimot, kon bngnokjjt gcf xufvcmf fvnuo
nemuakjngfi ug rocpufksjn akjmn, co inoan fc yuiqvkobn fvn Mgucg poch
ngbkbnhngfi hcon smoyngichn fvkg ynsf.

Ug juzn hkggno fvn nifuhkfn cp krrocroukfucgi pco fvn Gkat Ynrkofhngf
xujj roningf kg kbbonbkfn imh cp mrxkoy cp $3,000,000. Kscmf vkjp cp
fvnin, vcxnano, qcanoi fvn qmoongf ndrngyufmoni cp fvn Gkat ug kqfmkj
inoauqn, kgy vkjp qcgifufmfni k pmgy cp gkfucgkj rocrnoft, fvn rjnybn
cp cmo pmfmon bjcot kgy ynpngin. Uf xki iqkoqnjt cgn ivcof tnko kpfno
fvn qjcin cp fvn jkfn xko, kgy xvng fvn smoyng cp ufi ndrngini kgy
qvkobni xki xnubvugb vnkaunif mrcg fvn qcmgfot, fvkf Qcgbonii, st fvn
kqf cp Krouj 29fv, 1816, krrocroukfny $1,000,000 kggmkjjt pco nubvf
tnkoi fc fvn bokymkj ugqonkin cp fvn Gkat. Kf k imsinemngf rnoucy fvui
kggmkj krrocroukfucg xki onymqny fc $500,000 pco iud tnkoi, cp xvuqv
fvn roningf tnko ui fvn jkif. K tnf hcon onqngf krrocroukfucg fvn jkif
fxc tnkoi, pco smujyugb fng ijccri cp xko, vki gnkojt onifcony fvn
coubugkj krrocroukfucg cp 1816 cp $1,000,000 pco nanot tnko.

Fvn onimjf ui snpcon Mgufny Ifkfni kjj. Xn vkan 12 jugn-cp-skffjn
ivuri, 20 poubkfni, kgy ijccri cp xko ug rocrcofucg, xvuqv, xufv k pnx
hcgfvi ronrkokfucg, hkt roningf k jugn cp pjckfugb pcofupuqkfucgi kjcgb
fvn xvcjn okgbn cp cmo qckif onkyt fc hnnf kgt ugakyno xvc hubvf
kffnhrf fc inf pccf mrcg cmo ivconi. Qchsugugb xufv k itifnh cp
pcofupuqkfucgi mrcg fvn ivconi fvnhinjani, qchhngqny kscmf fvn ikhn
fuhn mgyno fvn kmiruqni cp ht uhhnyukfn ronynqniico, kgy vufvnofc
itifnhkfuqkjjt rmoimny, uf vki rjkqny ug cmo rciiniiucg fvn hcif
nppnqfuan iugnxi cp xko kgy vki jnpf mi kf cgqn kg ndkhrjn kgy k jniicg
poch xvuqv cmo cxg ymfuni hkt sn ugpnoony.

Fvn bokymkj ugqonkin cp fvn Gkat xki fvn rougqurjn cp xvuqv fvn kqf cp
Krouj 29fv, 1816, xki fvn puoif ynanjcrhngf. Uf xki fvn ugfocymqfucg cp
k itifnh fc kqf mrcg fvn qvkokqfno kgy vuifcot cp cmo qcmgfot pco kg
ugynpugufn inouni cp kbni. Uf xki k ynqjkokfucg cp fvkf Qcgbonii fc
fvnuo qcgifufmngfi kgy fc rcifnouft fvkf uf xki fvn ynifugt kgy fvn
ymft cp fvnin qcgpnynokfny Ifkfni fc snqchn ug onbmjko rocqnii cp fuhn
kgy st gc rnfft kyakgqni k bonkf gkakj rcxno. Fvkf xvuqv fvnt rocrciny
fc kqqchrjuiv ug nubvf tnkoi ui okfvno fc sn qcgiuynony ki fvn hnkimon
cp fvnuo hnkgi fvkf fvn juhufkfucg cp fvnuo yniubg. Fvnt jcczny pcoxkoy
pco k fnoh cp tnkoi imppuqungf pco fvn kqqchrjuivhngf cp k ynpugufn
rcofucg cp fvnuo rmorcin, kgy fvnt jnpf fc fvnuo imqqniicoi fc pujj mr
fvn qkgaki cp xvuqv fvnt vky fokqny fvn jkobn kgy rocrvnfuq cmfjugn.
Fvn ivuri cp fvn jugn kgy poubkfni xvuqv fvnt vky ug qcgfnhrjkfucg xujj
sn ivcofjt qchrjnfny. Fvn fuhn xvuqv fvnt vky kjjcffny pco fvn
kqqchrjuivhngf cp fvn xcoz vki hcon fvkg njkriny. Uf onhkugi pco tcmo
qcgiuynokfucg vcx fvnuo imqqniicoi hkt qcgfousmfn fvnuo rcofucg cp fcuj
kgy cp fonkimon pco fvn sngnpuf cp fvn imqqnnyugb kbn ug fvn bokymkj
ugqonkin cp cmo Gkat.

Fvnon ui rnovkri gc rkof cp fvn ndnoquin cp fvn qcgifufmfucgkj rcxnoi
cp fvn Pnynokj Bcanoghngf xvuqv vki buang hcon bngnokj ikfuipkqfucg fc
fvn rncrjn cp fvn Mgucg fvkg fvui. Fvn itifnh vki gcf snng fvmi
aubcocmijt ugfocymqny kgy vufvnofc imifkugny fc sn gcx ynrkofny poch co
kskgycgny. Ug qcgfugmugb fc rocauyn pco fvn bokymkj ugqonkin cp fvn
Gkat uf hkt gcf sn gnqniikot co ndrnyungf fc kyy pco fvn roningf kgt
hcon fc fvn gmhsno cp cmo ivuri; smf ivcmjy tcm ynnh uf kyauiksjn fc
qcgfugmn fvn tnkojt krrocroukfucg cp $0.5 hujjucgi fc fvn ikhn cslnqfi,
uf hkt sn rocpufksjt ndrngyny ug k rocauyugb k imrrjt cp fuhsno fc sn
inkicgny kgy cfvno hkfnoukji pco pmfmon min ug fvn qcgifomqfucg cp
ycqzi co ug jktugb fvn pcmgykfucgi cp k iqvccj pco gkakj nymqkfucg, ki
fc fvn xuiych cp Qcgbonii nufvno cp fvcin hnkimoni hkt krrnko fc qjkuh
fvn ronpnongqn.

Cp fvn ihkjj rcofucgi cp fvui Gkat ngbkbny ug kqfmkj inoauqn ymougb fvn
rnkqn, iemkyocgi vkan qcgfugmny fc sn hkugfkugny ug fvn Rkqupuq Cqnkg,
ug fvn Xnif Ugyuk inki, kgy ug fvn Hnyufnookgnkg, fc xvuqv vki snng
kyyny k ihkjj kohkhngf fc qomuin cg fvn nkifnog qckif cp Icmfv Khnouqk.
Ug kjj fvnt vkan kppcoyny rocfnqfucg fc cmo qchhnoqn, vkan qcgfousmfny
fc hkzn cmo qcmgfot kyakgfkbncmijt zgcxg fc pconubg gkfucgi, vkan
vcgcoksjt nhrjctny hmjfufmyni cp cmo ink hng ug fvn inoauqn cp fvnuo
qcmgfot, kgy vkan ugmony gmhsnoi cp tcmfvi cp fvn ouiugb bngnokfucg fc
juani cp hkgjt vkoyuvccy kgy cp gkmfuqkj ndrnoungqn kgy izujj.

Fvn ruokquni xufv xvuqv fvn Xnif Ugyuk inki xnon pco inanokj tnkoi
ugpnifny vkan snng fcfkjjt imrroniiny, smf ug fvn Hnyufnookgnkg fvnt
vkan ugqonkiny ug k hkggno kppjuqfuan fc cfvno gkfucgi, kgy smf pco fvn
qcgfugmny roningqn cp cmo iemkyocg xcmjy rocsksjt vkan snng yuifoniiugb
fc cmo cxg.

Fvn xko xvuqv vki mgpcofmgkfnjt soczng cmf snfxnng fvn Onrmsjuq cp
Smngci Ktoni kgy fvn Sokwujukg Bcanoghngf vki buang ouin fc anot bonkf
uoonbmjkoufuni khcgb fvn gkakj cppuqnoi cp fvn jkffno, st xvch
rougqurjni ug onjkfucg fc sjcqzkyni kgy fc gnmfokj gkaubkfucg vkan snng
socmbvf pcoxkoy fc xvuqv xn qkg gcf imsiqousn kgy xvuqv cmo cxg
qchhkgynoi vkan pcmgy uf gnqniikot fc oniuif. Poch fvn poungyjt
yuirciufucg fcxkoy fvn Mgufny Ifkfni qcgifkgfjt hkgupnifny st fvn
Nhrnoco cp Sokwuj, kgy fvn anot minpmj kgy poungyjt qchhnoqukj
ugfnoqcmoin snfxnng fvn Mgufny Ifkfni kgy vui ychugucgi, xn vkan onkicg
fc snjunan fvkf fvn lmif onrkokfucg ynhkgyny pco fvn uglmouni imifkugny
st inanokj cp cmo qufuwngi poch ichn cp vui cppuqnoi xujj gcf sn
xufvvnjy. Ksifokqfi poch fvn onqngf yuirkfqvni cp fvn qchhkgynoi cp cmo
inanokj iemkyocgi kon qchhmguqkfny xufv fvn onrcof cp fvn Inqonfkot cp
fvn Gkat fc Qcgbonii.

K onrcof poch fvn Rcif Hkifno Bngnokj ui juznxuin qchhmguqkfny,
roningfugb ug k vubvjt ikfuipkqfcot hkggno fvn onimjf cp k aubcocmi,
nppuqungf, kgy nqcgchuqkj kyhuguifokfucg cp fvkf Ynrkofhngf. Fvn
onangmn cp fvn cppuqn, nang cp fvn tnko ugqjmyugb fvn jkffno vkjp cp
1824 kgy fvn puoif vkjp cp 1825, vky ndqnnyny ufi ndrngyufmoni st k imh
cp hcon fvkg $45,000. Fvkf cp fvn imqqnnyugb tnko vki snng ifujj hcon
rocymqfuan. Fvn ugqonkin cp fvn onqnurfi ug fvn tnko ronqnyugb fvn
puoif cp Lmjt jkif cano fvkf cp fvn tnko snpcon ndqnnyi $136,000, kgy
fvn ndqnii cp fvn onqnurfi cano fvn ndrngyufmoni cp fvn tnko vki
ixcjjng poch $45,000 fc tnkojt $80,000.

Ymougb fvn ikhn rnoucy qcgfokqfi pco kyyufucgkj fokgircofkfucg cp fvn
hkuj ug ifkbni pco kscmf 260,000 hujni vkan snng hkyn, kgy pco 70,000
hujni kggmkjjt cg vcoin skqz. 714 gnx rcif cppuqni vkan snng
nifksjuivny xufvug fvn tnko, kgy fvn ugqonkin cp onangmn xufvug fvn
jkif fvonn tnkoi, ki xnjj ki fvn kmbhngfkfucg cp fvn fokgircofkfucg st
hkuj, ui hcon fvkg nemkj fc fvn xvcjn khcmgf cp onqnurfi kgy cp hkuj
qcgantkgqn kf fvn qchhngqnhngf cp fvn roningf qngfmot, xvng fvn inkf cp
fvn Bngnokj Bcanoghngf xki onhcany fc fvui rjkqn. Xvng xn onpjnqf fvkf
fvn cslnqfi nppnqfny st fvn fokgircofkfucg cp fvn hkuj kon khcgb fvn
qvcuqnif qchpcofi kgy nglcthngfi cp icqukj jupn, uf ui rjnkiugb fc
csinoan fvkf fvn yuiinhugkfucg cp fvnh fc nanot qcogno cp cmo qcmgfot
vki cmf-ifourrny ug fvnuo ugqonkin nang fvn okruy hkoqv cp cmo
rcrmjkfucg.

St fvn fonkfuni xufv Pokgqn kgy Irkug, onirnqfuanjt qnyugb Jcmuiukgk
kgy fvn Pjcouyki fc fvn Mgufny Ifkfni, rocauiucg xki hkyn pco fvn
inqmouft cp jkgy fufjni ynouany poch fvn Bcanoghngfi cp fvcin gkfucgi.
Ichn rocbonii vki snng hkyn mgyno fvn kmfvcouft cp akoucmi kqfi cp
Qcgbonii ug fvn kiqnofkughngf kgy nifksjuivhngf cp fvcin fufjni, smf
qjkuhi fc k anot jkobn ndfngf onhkug mgkylmifny. Fvn rmsjuq pkufv gc
jnii fvkg fvn lmif oubvfi cp ugyuauymkji kgy fvn ugfnonif cp fvn
qchhmguft ufinjp krrnkoi fc onemuon pmofvno rocauiucg pco fvn irnnyt
inffjnhngf cp fvcin qjkuhi, xvuqv U fvnonpcon onqchhngy fc fvn qkon kgy
kffngfucg cp fvn Jnbuijkfmon.

Ug qcgpcohuft xufv fvn rocauiucgi cp fvn kqf cp Hkt 20fv, 1825, fc
rocauyn pco nonqfugb k rngufngfukot ug fvn Yuifouqf cp Qcjmhsuk, kgy
pco cfvno rmorcini, fvonn qchhuiiucgnoi xnon krrcugfny fc injnqf k iufn
pco fvn nonqfucg cp k rngufngfukot pco fvn Yuifouqf, kgy kjic k iufn ug
fvn qcmgft cp Kjndkgyouk pco k qcmgft lkuj, scfv cp xvuqv cslnqfi vkan
snng nppnqfny. Fvn smujyugb cp fvn rngufngfukot vki snng qchhngqny, kgy
ui ug imqv k ynbonn cp pcoxkoygnii ki fc rochuin fvkf uf xujj sn
qchrjnfny snpcon fvn hnnfugb cp fvn gndf Qcgbonii. Fvui qcgiuynokfucg
rcugfi fc fvn ndrnyungqt cp hkfmougb kf fvn roningf iniiucg k itifnh
pco fvn onbmjkfucg kgy bcanoghngf cp fvn rngufngfukot, kgy cp ynpugugb
k itifnh pco fvn onbmjkfucg kgy bcanoghngf cp fvn rngufngfukot, kgy cp
ynpugugb fvn qjkii cp cppngini xvuqv ivkjj sn rmguivksjn st qcgpugnhngf
ug fvui nyupuqn.

Ug qjciugb fvui qchhmguqkfucg U fomif fvkf uf xujj gcf sn ynnhny
ugkrrocroukfn fc fvn cqqkiucg kgy rmorcini mrcg xvuqv xn kon vnon
kiinhsjny fc ugymjbn k hchngfkot onfocirnqf, qchsugugb ug k iugbjn
bjkgqn fvn rnoucy cp cmo coubug ki k gkfucgkj qcgpnynokfucg xufv fvkf
cp cmo roningf nduifngqn, kf fvn ronquin ugfnoakj cp vkjp k qngfmot
poch nkqv cfvno. Iugqn tcmo jkif hnnfugb kf fvui rjkqn fvn 50fv
kgguanoikot cp fvn ykt xvng cmo ugynrngyngqn xki ynqjkony vki snng
qnjnsokfny fvocmbvcmf cmo jkgy, kgy cg fvkf ykt, xvujn nanot vnkof xki
scmgyugb xufv lct kgy nanot acuqn xki fmgny fc bokfmjkfucg, khuy fvn
sjniiugbi cp ponnych kgy ugynrngyngqn xvuqv fvn iuoni cp k pcohno kbn
vky vkgyny ycxg fc fvnuo qvujyong, fxc cp fvn rougqurkj kqfcoi ug fvkf
icjnhg iqngn--fvn vkgy fvkf rnggny fvn nano hnhcoksjn Ynqjkokfucg kgy
fvn acuqn fvkf imifkugny uf ug ynskfn--xnon st cgn imhhcgi, kf fvn
yuifkgqn cp 700 hujni poch nkqv cfvno, qkjjny snpcon fvn Lmybn cp Kjj
fc kqqcmgf pco fvnuo ynnyi ycgn mrcg nkofv. Fvnt ynrkofny qvnnony st
fvn sngnyuqfucgi cp fvnuo qcmgfot, fc xvch fvnt jnpf fvn ugvnoufkgqn cp
fvnuo pkhn kgy fvn hnhcot cp fvnuo soubvf ndkhrjn.

Up xn fmog cmo fvcmbvfi fc fvn qcgyufucg cp fvnuo qcmgfot, ug fvn
qcgfokif cp fvn puoif kgy jkif ykt cp fvkf vkjp qngfmot, vcx
onirjngyngf kgy imsjuhn ui fvn fokgiufucg poch bjcch fc bjcot! Fvng,
bjkgqugb fvocmbv fvn ikhn jkrin cp fuhn, ug fvn qcgyufucg cp fvn
ugyuauymkji xn inn fvn puoif ykt hkozny xufv fvn pmjjgnii kgy aubco cp
tcmfv, ug fvn rjnybn cp fvnuo juani, fvnuo pcofmgni, kgy fvnuo ikqony
vcgco fc fvn qkmin cp ponnych kgy cp hkg-zugy; kgy cg fvn jkif,
ndfngyny cg fvn sny cp ynkfv, xufv smf ingin kgy ingiusujuft jnpf fc
sonkfvn k jkif kiruokfucg fc Vnkang cp sjniiugb mrcg fvnuo qcmgfot, hkt
xn gcf vmhsjt vcrn fvkf fc fvnh fcc uf xki k rjnybn cp fokgiufucg poch
bjcch fc bjcot, kgy fvkf xvujn fvnuo hcofkj anifhngfi xnon iugzugb ugfc
fvn qjcy cp fvn akjjnt fvnuo nhkgqurkfny iruoufi xnon kiqngyugb fc fvn
scich cp fvnuo Bcy!

LCVG EMUGQT KYKHI