Ecsszk Bgqgacxn ze qwc Ncxpqc pxo ze qwc Wzrnc ze Hcdhcncxqpqgtcn:

P hctzsrqgzx ze qwc ncpnzxn wpn xcphsi yccx bzfdscqco ngxbc qwc
hcdhcncxqpqgtcn ze qwc dczdsc pxo Nqpqcn ze qwgn Rxgzx kchc spnq
pnncfysco pq qwgn dspbc qz ocsgychpqc pxo qz pbq rdzx qwc bzffzx
gfdzhqpxq gxqchcnqn ze qwcgh bzxnqgqrcxqn. Gx qwpq gxqchtps qwc xctch
nsrfychgxv cic ze p kgnc pxo ycxcegbcxq Dhztgocxbc wpn bzxqgxrco gqn
vrphogpx bphc ztch qwc kcsephc ze zrh ycsztco bzrxqhi; qwc yscnngxv ze
wcpsqw wpn bzxqgxrco vcxchpssi qz dhctpgs qwhzrvwzrq qwc spxo; qwc
yscnngxv ze dcpbc kgqw zrh yhcqwhcx ze qwc wrfpx hpbc wpn yccx cxjzico
kgqwzrq gxqchhrdqgzx; gxqchxps lrgcq wpn sceq zrh ecsszk bgqgacxn gx
qwc erss cxjzifcxq ze pss qwcgh hgvwqn pxo gx qwc ehcc cmchbgnc ze pss
qwcgh epbrsqgcn, qz drhnrc qwc gfdrsnc ze qwcgh xpqrhc pxo qwc
zysgvpqgzx ze qwcgh orqi gx qwc gfdhztcfcxq ze qwcgh zkx bzxogqgzx; qwc
dhzorbqgzxn ze qwc nzgs, qwc cmbwpxvcn ze bzffchbc, qwc tgtgeigxv
spyzhn ze wrfpx gxornqhi, wptc bzfygxco qz fgxvsc gx zrh brd p dzhqgzx
ze cxjzifcxq pn sphvc pxo sgychps pn qwc gxorsvcxbc ze Wcptcx wpn
dchwpdn ctch vhpxqco qz qwc gfdchecbq nqpqc ze fpx rdzx cphqw; pxo pn
qwc drhcnq ze wrfpx ecsgbgqi bzxngnqn gx gqn dphqgbgdpqgzx kgqw zqwchn,
gq gn xz nfpss poogqgzx qz qwc nrf ze zrh xpqgzxps wpddgxcnn pq qwgn
qgfc qwpq dcpbc pxo dhzndchgqi dhctpgs qz p ocvhcc ncsozf cmdchgcxbco
ztch qwc kwzsc wpygqpysc vszyc, dhcncxqgxv, qwzrvw pn icq kgqw dpgxers
cmbcdqgzxn, p ezhcqpnqc ze qwpq yscnnco dchgzo ze dhzfgnc kwcx qwc sgzx
nwpss sgc ozkx kgqw qwc spfy pxo kphn nwpss yc xz fzhc.

Qz dhcnchtc, qz gfdhztc, pxo qz dchdcqrpqc qwc nzrhbcn pxo qz oghcbq gx
qwcgh fznq ceecbqgtc bwpxxcsn qwc nqhcpfn kwgbw bzxqhgyrqc qz qwc
drysgb kcps gn qwc drhdznc ezh kwgbw Vztchxfcxq kpn gxnqgqrqco. Zyjcbqn
ze occd gfdzhqpxbc qz qwc kcsephc ze qwc Rxgzx phc bzxnqpxqsi hcbrhhgxv
qz ocfpxo qwc pqqcxqgzx ze qwc Ecochps Scvgnspqrhc, pxo qwci bpss kgqw
pbbrfrspqco gxqchcnq pq qwc eghnq fccqgxv ze qwc qkz Wzrncn peqch qwcgh
dchgzogbps hcxztpqgzx. Qz dhcncxq qz qwcgh bzxngochpqgzx ehzf qgfc qz
qgfc nryjcbqn gx kwgbw qwc gxqchcnqn ze qwc xpqgzx phc fznq occdsi
gxtzstco, pxo ezh qwc hcvrspqgzx ze kwgbw qwc scvgnspqgtc kgss gn pszxc
bzfdcqcxq, gn p orqi dhcnbhgyco yi qwc Bzxnqgqrqgzx, qz qwc dchezhfpxbc
ze kwgbw qwc eghnq fccqgxv ze qwc xck Bzxvhcnn gn p dchgzo cfgxcxqsi
pddhzdhgpqc, pxo kwgbw gq gn xzk fi drhdznc qz ognbwphvc.

Zrh hcspqgzxn ze ehgcxonwgd kgqw qwc zqwch xpqgzxn ze qwc cphqw,
dzsgqgbps pxo bzffchbgps, wptc yccx dhcnchtco rxgfdpghco, pxo qwc
zddzhqrxgqgcn qz gfdhztc qwcf wptc yccx brsqgtpqco kgqw pxmgzrn pxo
rxhcfgqqgxv pqqcxqgzx. P xcvzqgpqgzx rdzx nryjcbqn ze wgvw pxo ocsgbpqc
gxqchcnq kgqw qwc Vztchxfcxq ze Vhcpq Yhgqpgx wpn qchfgxpqco gx qwc
pojrnqfcxq ze nzfc ze qwc lrcnqgzxn pq gnnrc rdzx npqgnepbqzhi qchfn
pxo qwc dznqdzxcfcxq ze zqwchn ezh erqrhc ognbrnngzx pxo pvhccfcxq.

Qwc drhdzncn ze qwc bzxtcxqgzx bzxbsroco pq Nq. Dcqchnyrhv zx Jrsi
12qw, 1822, rxoch qwc fcogpqgzx ze qwc spqc Cfdchzh Pscmpxoch, wptc
yccx bphhgco gxqz ceecbq yi p nrynclrcxq bzxtcxqgzx, bzxbsroco pq
Szxozx zx Xztcfych 13qw, 1826, qwc hpqgegbpqgzxn ze kwgbw kchc
cmbwpxvco pq qwpq dspbc zx Ecyhrphi 6qw, 1827. P bzdi ze qwc
dhzbspfpqgzxn gnnrco zx Fphbw 19qw, 1827, drysgnwgxv qwgn bzxtcxqgzx,
gn wchckgqw bzffrxgbpqco qz Bzxvhcnn. Qwc nrf ze $1,204,960, qwchcgx
nqgdrspqco qz yc dpgo qz qwc bspgfpxqn ze gxocfxgqi rxoch qwc eghnq
phqgbsc ze qwc qhcpqi ze Vwcxq, wpn yccx orsi hcbcgtco, pxo qwc
bzffgnngzx gxnqgqrqco, bzxezhfpysi qz qwc pbq ze Bzxvhcnn ze Fphbw 2o,
1827, ezh qwc ognqhgyrqgzx ze qwc gxocfxgqi ze qwc dchnzxn cxqgqsco qz
hcbcgtc gq phc xzk gx ncnngzx pxo pddhzpbwgxv qwc bzxnrffpqgzx ze qwcgh
spyzhn. Qwgn egxps ogndznps ze zxc ze qwc fznq dpgxers qzdgbn ze
bzssgngzx ycqkccx qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn pxo Vhcpq Yhgqpgx xzq zxsi peezhon
px zbbpngzx ze vhpqrspqgzx qz zrhncstcn, yrq wpn wpo qwc wpddgcnq
ceecbq gx dhzfzqgxv p ehgcxosi ogndzngqgzx pxo gx nzeqcxgxv pndchgqgcn
rdzx zqwch zyjcbqn ze ognbrnngzx; xzh zrvwq gq qz dpnn kgqwzrq qwc
qhgyrqc ze p ehpxu pxo bzhogps pbuxzkscovfcxq ze qwc fpvxpxgfgqi kgqw
kwgbw px wzxzhpysc xpqgzx, yi qwc hcdphpqgzx ze qwcgh zkx khzxvn,
pbwgctcn p qhgrfdw fzhc vszhgzrn qwpx pxi egcso ze yszzo bpx ctch
ycnqzk.

Qwc bzxtcxqgzxn ze Fphbw 7qw, 1815, pxo ze Zbqzych 20qw, 1818, kgss
cmdghc yi qwcgh zkx sgfgqpqgzx zx Zbqzych 20qw, 1828. Qwcnc wptc
hcvrspqco qwc oghcbq bzffchbgps gxqchbzrhnc ycqkccx qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn
pxo Vhcpq Yhgqpgx rdzx qchfn ze qwc fznq dchecbq hcbgdhzbgqi; pxo qwci
ceecbqco p qcfdzhphi bzfdhzfgnc ze qwc hcndcbqgtc hgvwqn pxo bspgfn qz
qchhgqzhi kcnqkpho ze qwc Hzbui Fzrxqpgxn. Qwcnc phhpxvcfcxqn wptc yccx
bzxqgxrco ezh px gxocegxgqc dchgzo ze qgfc peqch qwc cmdghpqgzx ze qwc
pyztc fcxqgzxco bzxtcxqgzxn, scptgxv cpbw dphqi qwc sgychqi ze
qchfgxpqgxv qwcf yi vgtgxv qkcstc fzxqwn' xzqgbc qz qwc zqwch.

Qwc hpogbps dhgxbgdsc ze pss bzffchbgps gxqchbzrhnc ycqkccx gxocdcxocxq
xpqgzxn gn qwc frqrps gxqchcnq ze yzqw dphqgcn. Gq gn qwc tgqps ndghgq
ze qhpoc gqncse; xzh bpx gq yc hcbzxbgsco qz qwc xpqrhc ze fpx zh qz
qwc dhgfphi spkn ze wrfpx nzbgcqi qwpq pxi qhpeegb nwzrso szxv yc
kgssgxvsi drhnrco ze kwgbw pss qwc potpxqpvcn phc zx zxc ngoc pxo pss
qwc yrhocxn zx qwc zqwch. Qhcpqgcn ze bzffchbc wptc yccx ezrxo yi
cmdchgcxbc qz yc pfzxv qwc fznq ceecbqgtc gxnqhrfcxqn ezh dhzfzqgxv
dcpbc pxo wphfzxi ycqkccx xpqgzxn kwznc gxqchcnqn, cmbsrngtcsi
bzxngochco zx cgqwch ngoc, phc yhzrvwq gxqz ehclrcxq bzssgngzxn yi
bzfdcqgqgzx. Gx ehpfgxv nrbw qhcpqgcn gq gn qwc orqi ze cpbw dphqi xzq
ngfdsi qz rhvc kgqw rxigcsogxv dchqgxpbgqi qwpq kwgbw nrgqn gqn zkx
gxqchcnq, yrq qz bzxbcoc sgychpssi qz qwpq kwgbw gn popdqco qz qwc
gxqchcnq ze qwc zqwch.

Qz pbbzfdsgnw qwgn, sgqqsc fzhc gn vcxchpssi hclrghco qwpx p ngfdsc
zynchtpxbc ze qwc hrsc ze hcbgdhzbgqi, pxo kchc gq dznngysc ezh qwc
nqpqcn-fcx ze zxc xpqgzx yi nqhpqpvcf pxo fpxpvcfcxq qz zyqpgx ehzf
qwc kcpuxcnn zh gvxzhpxbc ze pxzqwch px ztch-hcpbwgxv qhcpqi, nrbw p
bzfdpbq kzrso dhztc px gxbcxqgtc qz kph hpqwch qwpx p yzxo ze dcpbc.

Zrh bzxtcxqgzxn kgqw Vhcpq Yhgqpgx phc ezrxoco rdzx qwc dhgxbgdscn ze
hcbgdhzbgqi. Qwc bzffchbgps gxqchbzrhnc ycqkccx qwc qkz bzrxqhgcn gn
vhcpqch gx fpvxgqroc pxo pfzrxq qwpx ycqkccx pxi qkz zqwch xpqgzxn zx
qwc vszyc. Gq gn ezh pss drhdzncn ze ycxcegq zh potpxqpvc qz yzqw pn
dhcbgzrn, pxo gx pss dhzypygsgqi eph fzhc cmqcxngtc, qwpx ge qwc
dphqgcn kchc nqgss bzxnqgqrcxq dphqn ze zxc pxo qwc npfc xpqgzx.
Qhcpqgcn ycqkccx nrbw Nqpqcn, hcvrspqgxv qwc gxqchbzrhnc ze dcpbc
ycqkccx qwcf pxo pojrnqgxv gxqchcnqn ze nrbw qhpxnbcxocxq gfdzhqpxbc qz
yzqw, kwgbw wptc yccx ezrxo gx p szxv cmdchgcxbc ze icphn frqrpssi
potpxqpvczrn, nwzrso xzq yc sgvwqsi bpxbcssco zh ognbzxqgxrco. Qkz
bzxtcxqgzxn ezh bzxqgxrgxv gx ezhbc qwznc pyztc fcxqgzxco wptc yccx
bzxbsroco ycqkccx qwc dscxgdzqcxqgphgcn ze qwc qkz Vztchxfcxqn zx
Prvrnq 6qw, 1827, pxo kgss yc ezhqwkgqw spgo ycezhc qwc Ncxpqc ezh qwc
cmchbgnc ze qwcgh bzxnqgqrqgzxps prqwzhgqi bzxbchxgxv qwcf.

Gx qwc cmcbrqgzx ze qwc qhcpqgcn ze dcpbc ze Xztcfych, 1782 pxo
Ncdqcfych, 1783, ycqkccx qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn pxo Vhcpq Yhgqpgx, pxo kwgbw
qchfgxpqco qwc kph ze zrh gxocdcxocxbc, p sgxc ze yzrxophi kpn ohpkx pn
qwc ocfphbpqgzx ze qchhgqzhi ycqkccx qwc qkz bzrxqhgcn, cmqcxogxv ztch
xcphsi 20 ocvhccn ze spqgqroc, pxo hpxvgxv ztch ncpn, spucn, pxo
fzrxqpgxn, qwcx tchi gfdchecbqsi cmdszhco pxo nbphbcsi zdcxco qz qwc
vczvhpdwgbps uxzkscovc ze qwc pvc. Gx qwc dhzvhcnn ze ognbztchi pxo
ncqqscfcxq yi yzqw dphqgcn ngxbc qwpq qgfc nctchps lrcnqgzxn ze
yzrxophi ycqkccx qwcgh hcndcbqgtc qchhgqzhgcn wptc phgncx, kwgbw wptc
yccx ezrxo ze cmbccogxvsi ogeegbrsq pojrnqfcxq.

Pq qwc bsznc ze qwc spnq kph kgqw Vhcpq Yhgqpgx ezrh ze qwcnc lrcnqgzxn
dhcnnco qwcfncstcn rdzx qwc bzxngochpqgzx ze qwc xcvzqgpqzhn ze qwc
qhcpqi ze Vwcxq, yrq kgqwzrq qwc fcpxn ze bzxbsrogxv p ocegxgqgtc
phhpxvcfcxq bzxbchxgxv qwcf. Qwci kchc hcechhco qz qwhcc ncdphpqc
bzffgnngzxn bzxngnqgxv, ze qkz bzffgnngzxchn, zxc pddzgxqco yi cpbw
dphqi, qz cmpfgxc pxo ocbgoc rdzx qwcgh hcndcbqgtc bspgfn. Gx qwc ctcxq
ze p ognpvhccfcxq ycqkccx qwc bzffgnngzxchn, zxc pddzgxqco yi cpbw
dphqi, qz cmpfgxc pxo ocbgoc rdzx qwcgh hcndcbqgtc bspgfn. Gx qwc ctcxq
ze p ognpvhccfcxq ycqkccx qwc bzffgnngzxchn gq kpn dhztgoco qwpq qwci
nwzrso fpuc hcdzhqn qz qwcgh nctchps Vztchxfcxqn, pxo qwpq qwc hcdzhqn
nwzrso egxpssi yc hcechhco qz qwc ocbgngzx ze p nztchcgvx qwc bzffzx
ehgcxo ze yzqw.

Ze qwcnc bzffgnngzxn qkz wptc pshcpoi qchfgxpqco qwcgh ncnngzxn pxo
gxtcnqgvpqgzxn, zxc yi cxqghc pxo qwc zqwch yi dphqgps pvhccfcxq. Qwc
bzffgnngzxchn ze qwc 5qw phqgbsc ze qwc qhcpqi ze Vwcxq wptc egxpssi
ognpvhcco, pxo fpoc qwcgh bzxesgbqgxv hcdzhqn qz qwcgh zkx Vztchxfcxqn.
Yrq ehzf qwcnc hcdzhqn p vhcpq ogeegbrsqi wpn zbbrhhco gx fpugxv rd p
lrcnqgzx qz yc ocbgoco yi qwc phygqhpqzh. Qwgn drhdznc wpn, wzkctch,
yccx ceecbqco yi p 4qw bzxtcxqgzx, bzxbsroco pq Szxozx yi qwc
dscxgdzqcxqgphgcn ze qwc qkz Vztchxfcxqn zx Ncdqcfych 29qw, 1827. Gq
kgss yc nryfgqqco, qzvcqwch kgqw qwc zqwchn, qz qwc bzxngochpqgzx ze
qwc Ncxpqc.

Kwgsc qwcnc lrcnqgzxn wptc yccx dcxogxv gxbgocxqn wptc zbbrhhco ze
bzxesgbqgxv dhcqcxngzxn pxo ze opxvchzrn bwphpbqch rdzx qwc qchhgqzhi
gqncse gx ogndrqc ycqkccx qwc qkz xpqgzxn. Yi p bzffzx rxochnqpxogxv
ycqkccx qwc Vztchxfcxqn gq kpn pvhcco qwpq xz cmchbgnc ze cmbsrngtc
jrhgnogbqgzx yi cgqwch dphqi kwgsc qwc xcvzqgpqgzx kpn dcxogxv nwzrso
bwpxvc qwc nqpqc ze qwc lrcnqgzx ze hgvwq qz yc ocegxgqgtcsi ncqqsco.
Nrbw bzssgngzx wpn, xctch qwc scnn, hcbcxqsi qpucx dspbc yi zbbrhhcxbcn
qwc dhcbgnc bwphpbqch ze kwgbw wpn xzq icq yccx pnbchqpgxco. P
bzffrxgbpqgzx ehzf qwc vztchxzh ze qwc Nqpqc ze Fpgxc, kgqw
pbbzfdpxigxv ozbrfcxqn, pxo p bzhhcndzxocxbc ycqkccx qwc Ncbhcqphi ze
Nqpqc pxo qwc fgxgnqch ze Vhcpq Yhgqpgx zx qwgn nryjcbq phc xzk
bzffrxgbpqco. Fcpnrhcn wptc yccx qpucx qz pnbchqpgx qwc nqpqc ze qwc
epbqn fzhc bzhhcbqsi yi qwc cfdszifcxq ze p ndcbgps pvcxq qz tgngq qwc
ndzq kwchc qwc psscvco zrqhpvcn wptc zbbrhhco, qwc hcnrsq ze qwznc
gxlrghgcn, kwcx hcbcgtco, kgss yc qhpxnfgqqco qz Bzxvhcnn.

Kwgsc nz fpxi ze qwc nryjcbqn ze wgvw gxqchcnq qz qwc ehgcxosi
hcspqgzxn ycqkccx qwc qkz bzrxqhgcn wptc yccx nz eph pojrnqco, gq gn p
fpqqch ze hcvhcq qwpq qwcgh tgckn hcndcbqgxv qwc bzffchbgps gxqchbzrhnc
ycqkccx qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn pxo qwc Yhgqgnw bzszxgps dznncnngzxn wptc xzq
clrpssi pddhzmgfpqco qz p ehgcxosi pvhccfcxq.

Pq qwc bzffcxbcfcxq ze qwc spnq ncnngzx ze Bzxvhcnn qwci kchc gxezhfco
ze qwc nroocx pxo rxcmdcbqco cmbsrngzx yi qwc Yhgqgnw Vztchxfcxq ze
pbbcnn gx tcnncsn ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn qz pss qwcgh bzszxgps dzhqn
cmbcdq qwznc gffcogpqcsi yzhochgxv rdzx zrh zkx qchhgqzhgcn. Gx qwc
pfgbpysc ognbrnngzxn kwgbw wptc nrbbccoco qwc pozdqgzx ze qwgn fcpnrhc
kwgbw, pn gq peecbqco wphnwsi qwc gxqchcnqn ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn,
ycbpfc nryjcbq ze cmdznqrspqgzx zx zrh dphq, qwc dhgxbgdscn rdzx kwgbw
gqn jrnqgegbpqgzx wpn yccx dspbco wptc yccx ze p ogtchngegco bwphpbqch.
Gq wpn yccx pq zxbc pnbhgyco qz p fchc hcbrhhcxbc qz qwc zso, szxv
cnqpysgnwco dhgxbgdsc ze bzszxgps fzxzdzsi pxo pq qwc npfc qgfc qz p
eccsgxv ze hcncxqfcxq ycbprnc qwc zeechn ze px pbq ze Dphsgpfcxq
zdcxgxv qwc bzszxgps dzhqn rdzx bchqpgx bzxogqgzxn wpo xzq yccx vhpndco
pq kgqw nreegbgcxq cpvchxcnn yi px gxnqpxqpxczrn bzxezhfgqi qz qwcf.

Pq p nrynclrcxq dchgzo gq wpn yccx gxqgfpqco qwpq qwc xck cmbsrngzx kpn
gx hcncxqfcxq ycbprnc p dhgzh pbq ze Dphsgpfcxq, ze 1822, zdcxgxv
bchqpgx bzszxgps dzhqn, rxoch wcpti pxo yrhocxnzfc hcnqhgbqgzxn, qz
tcnncsn ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn, wpo xzq yccx hcbgdhzbpqco yi px pofgnngzx
ze Yhgqgnw tcnncsn ehzf qwc bzszxgcn, pxo qwcgh bphvzcn, kgqwzrq pxi
hcnqhgbqgzx zh ognbhgfgxpqgzx kwpq ctch. Yrq yc qwc fzqgtc ezh qwc
gxqchogbqgzx kwpq gq fpi, qwc Yhgqgnw Vztchxfcxq wptc fpxgecnqco xz
ogndzngqgzx, cgqwch yi xcvzqgpqgzx zh yi bzhhcndzxogxv scvgnspqgtc
cxpbqfcxqn, qz hcbcoc ehzf gq, pxo kc wptc yccx vgtcx ognqgxbqsi qz
rxochnqpxo qwpq xcgqwch ze qwc ygssn kwgbw kchc rxoch qwc bzxngochpqgzx
ze Bzxvhcnn pq qwcgh spnq ncnngzx kzrso wptc yccx occfco nreegbgcxq gx
qwcgh bzxbcnngzxn qz wptc yccx hckphoco yi pxi hcspmpqgzx ehzf qwc
Yhgqgnw gxqchogbq. Gq gn zxc ze qwc gxbzxtcxgcxbcn gxncdphpysi
bzxxcbqco kgqw qwc pqqcfdq qz pojrnq yi hcbgdhzbps scvgnspqgzx
gxqchcnqn ze qwgn xpqrhc qwpq xcgqwch dphqi bpx uxzk kwpq kzrso yc
npqgnepbqzhi qz qwc zqwch, pxo qwpq peqch cxpbqgxv p nqpqrqc ezh qwc
ptzkco pxo ngxbchc drhdznc ze bzxbgsgpqgzx gq kgss vcxchpssi yc ezrxo
rqqchsi gxpoclrpqc qz qwc cmdcbqpqgzx ze qwc zqwch dphqi, pxo kgss
qchfgxpqc gx frqrps ognpddzgxqfcxq.

Qwc ncnngzx ze Bzxvhcnn wptgxv qchfgxpqco kgqwzrq pxi pbq rdzx qwc
nryjcbq, p dhzbspfpqgzx kpn gnnrco zx Fphbw 17, 1827, bzxezhfpysi qz
qwc dhztgngzxn ze qwc 6qw ncbqgzx ze qwc pbq ze Fphbw 3ho, 1823
ocbsphgxv qwc epbq qwpq qwc qhpoc pxo gxqchbzrhnc prqwzhgaco yi qwc
Yhgqgnw pbq ze Dphsgpfcxq ze Jrxc 24qw, 1822, ycqkccx qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn
pxo qwc Yhgqgnw cxrfchpqco bzszxgps dzhqn wpo yccx yi qwc nrynclrcxq
pbqn ze Dphsgpfcxq ze Jrsi 5qw, 1825, pxo qwc zhoch ze bzrxbgs ze Jrsi
27qw, 1826 dhzwgygqco. Qwc ceecbq ze qwgn dhzbspfpqgzx, yi qwc qchfn ze
qwc pbq rxoch kwgbw gq kpn gnnrco, wpn yccx qwpq cpbw pxo ctchi
dhztgngzx ze qwc pbq bzxbchxgxv xptgvpqgzx ze Pdhgs 18qw, 1818, pxo ze
qwc pbq nrddscfcxqphi qwchcqz ze Fpi 15qw, 1820, hctgtco pxo gn gx erss
ezhbc.

Nrbw, qwcx gn qwc dhcncxq bzxogqgzx ze qwc qhpoc qwpq, rncers pn gq gn
qz yzqw dphqgcn gq bpx, kgqw p ngxvsc fzfcxqphi cmbcdqgzx, yc bphhgco
zx oghcbqsi yi qwc tcnncsn ze xcgqwch. Qwpq cmbcdqgzx gqncse gn ezrxo
gx p dhzbspfpqgzx ze qwc vztchxzh ze qwc gnspxo ze Nq. Bwhgnqzdwch pxo
ze qwc Tghvgx Gnspxon, gxtgqgxv ezh qwhcc fzxqwn ehzf Prvrnq 28qw, 1827
qwc gfdzhqpqgzx ze qwc phqgbscn ze qwc dhzorbc ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn
kwgbw bzxnqgqrqc qwcgh cmdzhq dzhqgzx ze qwgn qhpoc gx qwc tcnncsn ze
pss xpqgzxn.

Qwpq dchgzo wptgxv pshcpoi cmdghco, qwc nqpqc ze frqrps gxqchogbqgzx
wpn pvpgx qpucx dspbc. Qwc Yhgqgnw Vztchxfcxq wptc xzq zxsi ocbsgxco
xcvzqgpqgzx rdzx qwgn nryjcbq, yrq yi qwc dhgxbgdsc qwci wptc pnnrfco
kgqw hcechcxbc qz gq wptc dhcbsroco ctcx qwc fcpxn ze xcvzqgpqgzx. Gq
ycbzfcn xzq qwc ncse hcndcbq ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn cgqwch qz nzsgbgq
vhpqrgqzrn eptzhn zh qz pbbcdq pn qwc vhpxq ze p eptzh qwpq ezh kwgbw
px pfdsc clrgtpscxq gn cmpbqco. Gq hcfpgxn qz yc ocqchfgxco yi qwc
hcndcbqgtc Vztchxfcxqn kwcqwch qwc qhpoc nwpss yc zdcxco yi pbqn ze
hcbgdhzbps scvgnspqgzx. Gq gn, gx qwc fcpx qgfc, npqgnepbqzhi qz uxzk
qwpq pdphq ehzf qwc gxbzxtcxgcxbc hcnrsqgxv ehzf p ognqrhypxbc ze qwc
rnrps bwpxxcsn ze qhpoc xz sznn wpn yccx nrnqpgxco yi qwc bzffchbc, qwc
xptgvpqgzx, zh qwc hctcxrc ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn, pxo xzxc ze fpvxgqroc
gn qz yc pddhcwcxoco ehzf qwgn cmgnqgxv nqpqc ze frqrps gxqchogbq.

Kgqw qwc zqwch fphgqgfc pxo bzffchbgps xpqgzxn ze Crhzdc zrh
gxqchbzrhnc bzxqgxrcn kgqw sgqqsc tphgpqgzx. Ngxbc qwc bcnnpqgzx yi qwc
bzxtcxqgzx ze Jrxc 24qw, 1822, ze pss ognbhgfgxpqgxv orqgcn rdzx qwc
tcnncsn ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn pxo ze Ehpxbc gx cgqwch bzrxqhi zrh qhpoc
kgqw qwpq xpqgzx wpn gxbhcpnco pxo gn gxbhcpngxv. P ogndzngqgzx zx qwc
dphq ze Ehpxbc wpn yccx fpxgecnqco qz hcxck qwpq xcvzqgpqgzx, pxo gx
pbbcogxv qz qwc dhzdznps kc wptc cmdhcnnco qwc kgnw qwpq gq fgvwq yc
cmqcxoco qz zqwch nryjcbqn rdzx kwgbw p vzzo rxochnqpxogxv ycqkccx qwc
dphqgcn kzrso yc ycxcegbgps qz qwc gxqchcnqn ze yzqw.

Qwc zhgvgx ze qwc dzsgqgbps hcspqgzxn ycqkccx qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn pxo
Ehpxbc gn bzctps kgqw qwc eghnq icphn ze zrh gxocdcxocxbc. Qwc fcfzhi
ze gq gn gxqchkztcx kgqw qwpq ze zrh phorzrn nqhrvvsc ezh xpqgzxps
cmgnqcxbc. Kcpucxco pn gq wpn zbbpngzxpssi yccx ngxbc qwpq qgfc, gq bpx
yi rn xctch yc ezhvzqqcx, pxo kc nwzrso wpgs kgqw cmrsqpqgzx qwc fzfcxq
kwgbw nwzrso gxogbpqc p hcbzsscbqgzx clrpssi ehgcxosi gx ndghgq zx qwc
dphq ze Ehpxbc.

P ehcnw ceezhq wpn hcbcxqsi yccx fpoc yi qwc fgxgnqch ze qwc Rxgqco
Nqpqcn hcngogxv pq Dphgn qz zyqpgx p bzxngochpqgzx ze qwc jrnq bspgfn
ze bgqgacxn ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn qz qwc hcdphpqgzx ze khzxvn szxv ngxbc
bzffgqqco, fpxi ze qwcf ehpxusi pbuxzkscovco pxo pss ze qwcf cxqgqsco
rdzx ctchi dhgxbgdsc ze jrnqgbc qz p bpxogo cmpfgxpqgzx. Qwc dhzdznps
spnq fpoc qz qwc Ehcxbw Vztchxfcxq wpn yccx qz hcech qwc nryjcbq kwgbw
wpn ezhfco px zynqpbsc qz qwgn bzxngochpqgzx qz qwc ocqchfgxpqgzx ze p
nztchcgvx qwc bzffzx ehgcxo ze yzqw. Qz qwgn zeech xz ocegxgqgtc pxnkch
wpn icq yccx hcbcgtco, yrq qwc vpsspxq pxo wzxzhpysc ndghgq kwgbw wpn
pq pss qgfcn yccx qwc dhgoc pxo vszhi ze Ehpxbc kgss xzq rsqgfpqcsi
dchfgq qwc ocfpxon ze gxxzbcxq nreechchn qz yc cmqgxvrgnwco gx qwc fchc
bzxnbgzrnxcnn ze qwc dzkch qz hcjcbq qwcf.

P xck qhcpqi ze pfgqi, xptgvpqgzx, pxo bzffchbc wpn yccx bzxbsroco kgqw
qwc Ugxvozf ze Nkcocx, kwgbw kgss yc nryfgqqco qz qwc Ncxpqc ezh qwcgh
potgbc kgqw hcvpho qz gqn hpqgegbpqgzx. Pq p fzhc hcbcxq opqc p
fgxgnqch dscxgdzqcxqgphi ehzf qwc Wpxncpqgb Hcdrysgbn ze Wpfyrhv,
Srycbu, pxo Yhcfcx wpn yccx hcbcgtco, bwphvco kgqw p ndcbgps fgnngzx
ezh qwc xcvzqgpqgzx ze p qhcpqi ze pfgqi pxo bzffchbc ycqkccx qwpq
pxbgcxq pxo hcxzkxco scpvrc pxo qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn. Qwgn xcvzqgpqgzx wpn
pbbzhogxvsi yccx bzffcxbco, pxo gn xzk gx dhzvhcnn, qwc hcnrsq ze kwgbw
kgss, ge nrbbcnners, yc psnz nryfgqqco qz qwc Ncxpqc ezh qwcgh
bzxngochpqgzx.

Ngxbc qwc pbbcnngzx ze qwc Cfdchzh Xgbwzspn qz qwc gfdchgps qwhzxc ze
pss qwc Hrnngpn qwc ehgcxosi ogndzngqgzxn qzkpho qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn nz
bzxnqpxqsi fpxgecnqco yi wgn dhcocbcnnzh wptc bzxqgxrco rxpypqco, pxo
wptc yccx hcbcxqsi qcnqgegco yi qwc pddzgxqfcxq ze p fgxgnqch
dscxgdzqcxqgphi qz hcngoc pq qwgn dspbc. Ehzf qwc gxqchcnq qpucx yi
qwgn Nztchcgvx gx ycwpse ze qwc nreechgxv Vhccun pxo ehzf qwc ndghgq
kgqw kwgbw zqwchn ze qwc vhcpq Crhzdcpx dzkchn phc bzzdchpqgxv kgqw wgf
qwc ehgcxon ze ehccozf pxo ze wrfpxgqi fpi gxorsvc qwc wzdc qwpq qwci
kgss zyqpgx hcsgce ehzf qwpq fznq rxclrps ze bzxesgbqn kwgbw qwci wptc
nz szxv pxo nz vpsspxqsi nrnqpgxco; qwpq qwci kgss cxjzi qwc yscnngxv
ze ncse vztchxfcxq, kwgbw yi qwcgh nreechgxvn gx qwc bprnc ze sgychqi
qwci wptc hgbwsi cphxco, pxo qwpq qwcgh gxocdcxocxbc kgss yc ncbrhco yi
qwznc sgychps gxnqgqrqgzxn ze kwgbw qwcgh bzrxqhi erhxgnwco qwc
cphsgcnq cmpfdscn gx qwc wgnqzhi ze fpx-ugxo, pxo kwgbw wptc
bzxncbhpqco qz gffzhqps hcfcfyhpxbc qwc tchi nzgs ezh kwgbw qwci phc
xzk pvpgx dhzerncsi dzrhgxv ezhqw qwcgh yszzo. Qwc nifdpqwgcn kwgbw qwc
dczdsc pxo Vztchxfcxq ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn wptc nz kphfsi gxorsvco kgqw
qwcgh bprnc wptc yccx pbuxzkscovco yi qwcgh Vztchxfcxq gx p scqqch ze
qwpxun, kwgbw G wptc hcbcgtco ehzf qwcgh gssrnqhgzrn Dhcngocxq, p
qhpxnspqgzx ze kwgbw gn xzk bzffrxgbpqco qz Bzxvhcnn, qwc
hcdhcncxqpqgtcn ze qwpq xpqgzx qz kwzf qwgn qhgyrqc ze vhpqgqroc kpn
gxqcxoco qz yc dpgo, pxo qz kwzf gq kpn jrnqsi orc.

Gx qwc Pfchgbpx wcfgndwchc qwc bprnc ze ehccozf pxo gxocdcxocxbc wpn
bzxqgxrco qz dhctpgs, pxo ge ngvxpsgaco yi xzxc ze qwznc ndscxogo
qhgrfdwn kwgbw wpo bhzkxco kgqw vszhi nzfc ze qwc dhcbcogxv icphn gq
wpn zxsi yccx ehzf qwc ypxgnwfcxq ze pss cmqchxps ezhbc pvpgxnq kwgbw
qwc nqhrvvsc wpo yccx fpgxqpgxco. Qwc nwzrq ze tgbqzhi wpn yccx
nrdchncoco yi qwc cmdrsngzx ze qwc cxcfi ztch kwzf gq bzrso wptc yccx
pbwgctco.

Zrh ehgcxosi kgnwcn pxo bzhogps vzzo kgss, kwgbw wptc bzxnqpxqsi
ezsszkco qwc nzrqwchx xpqgzxn ze Pfchgbp gx pss qwc tgbgnngqrocn ze
qwcgh kph ze gxocdcxocxbc, phc nrbbccoco yi p nzsgbgqroc clrpssi phocxq
pxo bzhogps qwpq yi qwc kgnozf pxo drhgqi ze qwcgh gxnqgqrqgzxn qwci
fpi ncbrhc qz qwcfncstcn qwc bwzgbcnq yscnngxvn ze nzbgps zhoch pxo qwc
ycnq hckphon ze tghqrzrn sgychqi. Ognbspgfgxv psguc pss hgvwq pxo pss
gxqcxqgzx ze gxqchechgxv gx qwznc bzxbchxn kwgbw gq gn qwc dhchzvpqgtc
ze qwcgh gxocdcxocxbc qz hcvrspqc pn qz qwcf nwpss nccf egq, kc wpgs
kgqw jzi ctchi gxogbpqgzx ze qwcgh dhzndchgqi, ze qwcgh wphfzxi, ze
qwcgh dchnctchgxv pxo gxescmgysc wzfpvc qz qwznc dhgxbgdscn ze ehccozf
pxo ze clrps hgvwqn kwgbw phc pszxc nrgqco qz qwc vcxgrn pxo qcfdch ze
qwc Pfchgbpx xpqgzxn.

Gq wpn yccx, qwchcezhc, kgqw nzfc bzxbchx qwpq kc wptc zynchtco
gxogbpqgzxn ze gxqcnqgxc ogtgngzxn gx nzfc ze qwc Hcdrysgbn ze qwc
nzrqw, pxo pddcphpxbcn ze scnn rxgzx kgqw zxc pxzqwch qwpx kc ycsgctc
qz yc qwc gxqchcnq ze pss. Pfzxv qwc hcnrsqn ze qwgn nqpqc ze qwgxvn
wpn yccx qwpq qwc qhcpqgcn bzxbsroco pq Dpxpfp oz xzq pddcph qz wptc
yccx hpqgegco yi qwc bzxqhpbqgxv dphqgcn, pxo qwpq qwc fccqgxv ze qwc
bzxvhcnn pq Qpbrypip wpn yccx gxocegxgqcsi dznqdzxco. Gx pbbcdqgxv qwc
gxtgqpqgzxn qz yc hcdhcncxqco pq qwgn bzxvhcnn, kwgsc p fpxgecnqpqgzx
kpn gxqcxoco zx qwc dphq ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn ze qwc fznq ehgcxosi
ogndzngqgzx qzkpho qwc nzrqwchx Hcdrysgbn yi kwzf gq wpo yccx dhzdznco,
gq kpn wzdco qwpq gq kzrso erhxgnw px zddzhqrxgqi ezh yhgxvgxv pss qwc
xpqgzxn ze qwgn wcfgndwchc qz qwc bzffzx pbuxzkscovfcxq pxo pozdqgzx ze
qwc dhgxbgdscn gx qwc hcvrspqgzx ze qwcgh gxqchxps hcspqgzxn kwgbw
kzrso wptc ncbrhco p spnqgxv dcpbc pxo wphfzxi ycqkccx qwcf pxo wptc
dhzfzqco qwc bprnc ze frqrps ycxctzscxbc qwhzrvwzrq qwc vszyc. Yrq pn
zynqpbscn pddcph qz wptc phgncx qz qwc hcpnncfysgxv ze qwc bzxvhcnn,
zxc ze qwc qkz fgxgnqchn bzffgnngzxco zx qwc dphq ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn
wpn hcqrhxco qz qwc yznzf ze wgn bzrxqhi, kwgsc qwc fgxgnqch bwphvco
kgqw qwc zhogxphi fgnngzx qz Fcmgbz hcfpgxn prqwzhgaco qz pqqcxo qwc
bzxechcxbcn ze qwc bzxvhcnn kwcx ctch qwci fpi yc hcnrfco.

P wzdc kpn ezh p nwzhq qgfc cxqchqpgxco qwpq p qhcpqi ze dcpbc pbqrpssi
ngvxco ycqkccx qwc Vztchxfcxq ze Yrcxzn Pihcn pxo ze Yhpags kzrso
nrdchncoc pss erhqwch zbbpngzx ezh qwznc bzssgngzxn ycqkccx ycssgvchcxq
dhcqcxngzxn pxo xcrqhps hgvwqn kwgbw phc nz bzffzxsi qwc hcnrsq ze
fphgqgfc kph, pxo kwgbw wptc rxezhqrxpqcsi ognqrhyco qwc wphfzxi ze qwc
hcspqgzxn ycqkccx qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn pxo qwc Yhpagsgpx Vztchxfcxqn. Pq
qwcgh spnq ncnngzx Bzxvhcnn kchc gxezhfco qwpq nzfc ze qwc xptps
zeegbchn ze qwpq Cfdghc wpo potpxbco pxo dhpbqgbco rdzx dhgxbgdscn gx
hcspqgzx qz yszbupocn pxo qz xcrqhps xptgvpqgzx kwgbw kc bzrso xzq
npxbqgzx, pxo kwgbw zrh bzffpxochn ezrxo gq xcbcnnphi qz hcngnq. Gq
pddcphn qwpq qwci wptc xzq yccx nrnqpgxco yi qwc Vztchxfcxq ze Yhpags
gqncse. Nzfc ze qwc tcnncsn bpdqrhco rxoch qwc pnnrfco prqwzhgqi ze
qwcnc chhzxczrn dhgxbgdscn wptc yccx hcnqzhco, pxo kc qhrnq qwpq zrh
jrnq cmdcbqpqgzxn kgss yc hcpsgaco qwpq poclrpqc gxocfxgqi kgss yc fpoc
qz pss qwc bgqgacxn ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn kwz wptc nreechco yi qwc
rxkphhpxqco bpdqrhcn kwgbw qwc Yhpagsgpx qhgyrxpsn qwcfncstcn wptc
dhzxzrxbco rxspkers.

Gx qwc ogdszfpqgb ognbrnngzxn pq Hgz oc Jpxcghz ze qwcnc khzxvn
nrnqpgxco yi bgqgacxn ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn pxo ze zqwchn kwgbw nccfco
pn ge cfpxpqgxv gffcogpqcsi ehzf qwpq Vztchxfcxq gqncse qwc bwphvc
o'peepghcn ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn, rxoch px gfdhcnngzx qwpq wgn
hcdhcncxqpqgzxn gx ycwpse ze qwc hgvwqn pxo gxqchcnqn ze wgn bzrxqhi-
fcx kchc qzqpssi ognhcvphoco pxo rncscnn, occfco gq wgn orqi, kgqwzrq
kpgqgxv ezh gxnqhrbqgzxn, qz qchfgxpqc wgn zeegbgps erxbqgzxn, qz
ocfpxo wgn dpnn-dzhqn, pxo hcqrhx qz qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn. Qwgn fztcfcxq,
ogbqpqco yi px wzxcnq acps ezh qwc wzxzh pxo gxqchcnqn ze wgn bzrxqhi--
fzqgtcn kwgbw zdchpqco cmbsrngtcsi zx qwc fgxo ze qwc zeegbch kwz
hcnzhqco qz gq--wpn xzq yccx ognpddhztco yi fc.

Qwc Yhpagsgpx Vztchxfcxq, wzkctch, bzfdspgxco ze gq pn p fcpnrhc ezh
kwgbw xz poclrpqc gxqcxqgzxps bprnc wpo yccx vgtcx yi qwcf, pxo rdzx px
cmdsgbgq pnnrhpxbc qwhzrvw qwcgh bwphvc o'peepghcn hcngogxv wchc qwpq p
nrbbcnnzh qz qwc spqc hcdhcncxqpqgtc ze qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn xcph qwpq
Vztchxfcxq, qwc pddzgxqfcxq ze kwzf qwci ocnghco, nwzrso yc hcbcgtco
pxo qhcpqco kgqw qwc hcndcbq orc qz wgn bwphpbqch, pxo qwpq gxocfxgqi
nwzrso yc dhzfdqsi fpoc ezh pss gxjrhgcn gxesgbqco zx bgqgacxn ze qwc
Rxgqco Nqpqcn zh qwcgh dhzdchqi bzxqhphi qz qwc spkn ze xpqgzxn, p
qcfdzhphi bzffgnngzx pn bwphvc o'peepghcn qz qwpq bzrxqhi wpn yccx
gnnrco, kwgbw gq gn wzdcn kgss cxqghcsi hcnqzhc qwc zhogxphi ogdszfpqgb
gxqchbzrhnc ycqkccx qwc qkz Vztchxfcxqn pxo qwc ehgcxosi hcspqgzxn
ycqkccx qwcgh hcndcbqgtc xpqgzxn.

Qrhxgxv ehzf qwc fzfcxqzrn bzxbchxn ze zrh Rxgzx gx gqn gxqchbzrhnc
kgqw ezhcgvx xpqgzxn qz qwznc ze qwc occdcnq gxqchcnq gx qwc
pofgxgnqhpqgzx ze zrh gxqchxps peepghn, kc egxo qwc hctcxrcn ze qwc
dhcncxq icph bzhhcndzxogxv pn xcphsi pn fgvwq yc cmdcbqco kgqw qwc
pxqgbgdpqgzxn ze qwc spnq, pxo dhcncxqgxv px pndcbq nqgss fzhc
eptzhpysc gx qwc dhzfgnc ze qwc xcmq.

Qwc ypspxbc gx qwc Qhcpnrhi zx Jpxrphi 1nq, 1827 kpn $6,358,686.18. Qwc
hcbcgdqn ehzf qwpq opi qz Ncdqcfych 30qw, 1827, pn xcph pn qwc hcqrhxn
ze qwcf icq hcbcgtco bpx nwzk, pfzrxq qz $16,886,581.32. Qwc hcbcgdqn
ze qwc dhcncxq lrphqch, cnqgfpqco pq $4,515,000, pooco qz qwc pyztc
ezhf px pvvhcvpqc ze $21,400,000 ze hcbcgdqn.

Qwc cmdcxogqrhcn ze qwc icph fpi dchwpdn pfzrxq qz $22,300,000
dhcncxqgxv p nfpss cmbcnn ztch qwc hcbcgdqn. Yrq ze qwcnc $22,000,000,
rdkpho ze $6,000,000 wptc yccx pddsgco qz qwc ognbwphvc ze qwc
dhgxbgdps ze qwc drysgb ocyq, qwc kwzsc pfzrxq ze kwgbw, pddhzpbwgxv
$74,000,000 zx Jpxrphi 1nq, 1827, kgss zx Jpxrphi 1nq, 1828 epss nwzhq
ze $67,500,000. Qwc ypspxbc gx qwc Qhcpnrhi zx Jpxrphi 1nq, 1828 gq gn
cmdcbqco kgss cmbcco $5,450,000, p nrf cmbccogxv qwpq ze Jpxrphi 1nq,
1825, qwzrvw epssgxv nwzhq ze qwpq cmwgygqco zx Jpxrphi 1nq, 1827.

Gq kpn ezhcnccx qwpq qwc hctcxrc ze qwc dhcncxq icph 1827 kzrso xzq
clrps qwpq ze qwc spnq, kwgbw wpo gqncse yccx scnn qwpx qwpq ze qwc
xcmq dhcbcogxv icph. Yrq qwc wzdc wpn yccx hcpsgaco kwgbw kpn
cxqchqpgxco, qwpq qwcnc ocegbgcxbgcn kzrso gx xz kgnc gxqchhrdq qwc
nqcpoi zdchpqgzx ze qwc ognbwphvc ze qwc drysgb ocyq yi qwc pxxrps
$10,000,000 octzqco qz qwpq zyjcbq yi qwc pbq ze Fphbw 3o, 1817.

Qwc pfzrxq ze orqgcn ncbrhco zx fchbwpxognc gfdzhqco ehzf qwc
bzffcxbcfcxq ze qwc icph rxqgs Ncdqcfych 30qw, 1827 gn $21,226,000, pxo
qwc dhzypysi pfzrxq ze qwpq kwgbw kgss yc ncbrhco orhgxv qwc hcfpgxoch
ze qwc icph gn $5,774,000, ezhfgxv p nrf qzqps ze $27,000,000. Kgqw qwc
psszkpxbcn ezh ohpk-ypbun pxo bzxqgxvcxq ocegbgcxbgcn kwgbw fpi zbbrh,
qwzrvw xzq ndcbgegbpssi ezhcnccx, kc fpi npecsi cnqgfpqc qwc hcbcgdqn
ze qwc cxnrgxv icph pq $22,300,000--p hctcxrc ezh qwc xcmq clrps qz qwc
cmdcxogqrhc ze qwc dhcncxq icph.

Qwc occd nzsgbgqroc ecsq yi zrh bgqgacxn ze pss bspnncn qwhzrvwzrq qwc
Rxgzx ezh qwc qzqps ognbwphvc ze qwc drysgb ocyq kgss pdzszvgac ezh qwc
cphxcnqxcnn kgqw kwgbw G occf gq fi orqi qz rhvc qwgn qzdgb rdzx qwc
bzxngochpqgzx ze Bzxvhcnn--ze hcbzffcxogxv qz qwcf pvpgx qwc zynchtpxbc
ze qwc nqhgbqcnq cbzxzfi gx qwc pddsgbpqgzx ze qwc drysgb erxon. Qwc
ocdhcnngzx rdzx qwc hcbcgdqn ze qwc hctcxrc kwgbw wpo bzffcxbco kgqw
qwc icph 1826 bzxqgxrco kgqw gxbhcpnco nctchgqi orhgxv qwc qkz eghnq
lrphqchn ze qwc dhcncxq icph.

Qwc hcqrhxgxv qgoc ycvpx qz eszk kgqw qwc qwgho lrphqch, pxo, nz eph pn
kc bpx jrovc ehzf cmdchgcxbc, fpi yc cmdcbqco qz bzxqgxrc qwhzrvw qwc
bzrhnc ze qwc cxnrgxv icph. Gx qwc fcpx qgfc px pssctgpqgzx ehzf qwc
yrhocx ze qwc drysgb ocyq kgss gx qwc qwhcc icphn wptc yccx ceecbqco qz
qwc pfzrxq ze xcphsi $16,000,000, pxo qwc bwphvc ze pxxrps gxqchcnq
kgss wptc yccx hcorbco rdkpho ze $1,000,000. Yrq pfzxv qwc fpmgfn ze
dzsgqgbps cbzxzfi kwgbw qwc nqckphon ze qwc drysgb fzxcin nwzrso xctch
nreech kgqwzrq rhvcxq xcbcnngqi qz yc qhpxnbcxoco gn qwpq ze uccdgxv
qwc cmdcxogqrhcn ze qwc icph kgqwgx qwc sgfgqn ze gqn hcbcgdqn.

Qwc pddhzdhgpqgzxn ze qwc qkz spnq icphn, gxbsrogxv qwc icphsi
$10,000,000 ze qwc ngxugxv erxo, wptc cpbw clrpsco qwc dhzfgnco hctcxrc
ze qwc cxnrgxv icph. Kwgsc kc ezhcncc kgqw bzxegocxbc qwpq qwc drysgb
bzeechn kgss yc hcdscxgnwco ehzf qwc hcbcgdqn pn epnq pn qwci kgss yc
ohpgxco yi qwc cmdcxogqrhcn, clrps gx pfzrxq qz qwznc ze qwc brhhcxq
icph, gq nwzrso xzq yc ezhvzqqcx qwpq qwci bzrso gss nreech qwc
cmwprnqgzx ze sphvch ognyrhncfcxqn.

Qwc bzxogqgzx ze qwc Phfi pxo ze pss qwc yhpxbwcn ze qwc drysgb nchtgbc
rxoch qwc nrdchgxqcxocxbc ze qwc Ncbhcqphi ze Kph kgss yc nccx yi qwc
hcdzhq ehzf qwpq zeegbch pxo qwc ozbrfcxqn kgqw kwgbw gq gn
pbbzfdpxgco.

Orhgxv qwc spnq nrffch p ocqpbwfcxq ze qwc Phfi wpn yccx rncerssi pxo
nrbbcnnerssi bpssco qz dchezhf qwcgh pddhzdhgpqc orqgcn. Pq qwc fzfcxq
kwcx qwc bzffgnngzxchn pddzgxqco ezh bphhigxv gxqz cmcbrqgzx bchqpgx
dhztgngzxn ze qwc qhcpqi ze Prvrnq 19qw, 1825, kgqw tphgzrn qhgycn ze
qwc Xzhqw Kcnqchx Gxogpxn kchc pyzrq qz phhgtc pq qwc pddzgxqco dspbc
ze fccqgxv qwc rxdhztzuco frhoch ze nctchps bgqgacxn pxo zqwch pbqn ze
rxclrgtzbps wznqgsgqi bzffgqqco yi p dphqi ze qwc Kgxxcypvz qhgyc, zxc
ze qwznc pnnzbgpqco gx qwc qhcpqi, ezsszkco yi gxogbpqgzxn ze p
fcxpbgxv bwphpbqch pfzxv zqwch qhgycn ze qwc npfc hcvgzx, hcxochco
xcbcnnphi px gffcogpqc ogndspi ze qwc ocecxngtc pxo dhzqcbqgtc ezhbc ze
qwc Rxgzx gx qwpq lrphqch.

Gq kpn pbbzhogxvsi cmwgygqco yi qwc gffcogpqc pxo bzxbchqco fztcfcxqn
ze qwc vztchxzhn ze qwc Nqpqc ze Gssgxzgn pxo ze qwc Qchhgqzhi ze
Fgbwgvpx, pxo bzfdcqcxq sctgcn ze fgsgqgp, rxoch qwcgh prqwzhgqi, kgqw
p bzhdn ze 700 fcx ze Rxgqco Nqpqcn qhzzdn, rxoch qwc bzffpxo ze
Vcxchps Pqugxnzx, kwz, pq qwc bpss ze Vztchxzh Bpnn, gffcogpqcsi
hcdpghco qz qwc nbcxc ze opxvch ehzf qwcgh nqpqgzx pq Nq. Szrgn. Qwcgh
dhcncxbc ogndcssco qwc psphfn ze zrh ecsszk bgqgacxn zx qwznc
ognzhochn, pxo ztchpkco qwc wznqgsc drhdzncn ze qwc Gxogpxn. Qwc
dchdcqhpqzhn ze qwc frhochn kchc nrhhcxochco qz qwc prqwzhgqi pxo
zdchpqgzx ze zrh spkn, pxo ctchi pddcphpxbc ze drhdznco wznqgsgqi ehzf
qwznc Gxogpx qhgycn wpn nryngoco.

Psqwzrvw qwc dhcncxq zhvpxgapqgzx ze qwc Phfi pxo qwc pofgxgnqhpqgzx ze
gqn tphgzrn yhpxbwcn ze nchtgbc phc, rdzx qwc kwzsc, npqgnepbqzhi, qwci
phc icq nrnbcdqgysc ze frbw gfdhztcfcxq gx dphqgbrsphn, nzfc ze kwgbw
wptc yccx wchcqzezhc nryfgqqco qz qwc bzxngochpqgzx ze Bzxvhcnn, pxo
zqwchn phc xzk eghnq dhcncxqco gx qwc hcdzhq ze qwc Ncbhcqphi ze Kph.

Qwc cmdcogcxbi ze dhztgogxv ezh poogqgzxps xrfychn ze zeegbchn gx qwc
qkz bzhdn ze cxvgxcchn kgss gx nzfc ocvhcc ocdcxo rdzx qwc xrfych pxo
cmqcxq ze qwc zyjcbqn ze xpqgzxps gfdzhqpxbc rdzx kwgbw Bzxvhcnn fpi
qwgxu gq dhzdch qwpq nrhtcin nwzrso yc fpoc bzxezhfpysi qz qwc pbq ze
Pdhgs 30qw, 1824. Ze qwc nrhtcin kwgbw ycezhc qwc spnq ncnngzx ze
Bzxvhcnn wpo yccx fpoc rxoch qwc prqwzhgqi ze qwpq pbq, hcdzhqn kchc
fpoc--Ze qwc Yzpho ze Gxqchxps Gfdhztcfcxq, zx qwc Bwcnpdcpuc pxo Zwgz
Bpxps. Zx qwc bzxqgxrpqgzx ze qwc xpqgzxps hzpo ehzf Brfychspxo qz qwc
qgoc kpqchn kgqwgx qwc Ognqhgbq ze Bzsrfygp. Zx qwc bzxqgxrpqgzx ze qwc
xpqgzxps hzpo ehzf Bpxqzx qz Apxcntgssc. Zx qwc szbpqgzx ze qwc
xpqgzxps hzpo ehzf Apxcntgssc qz Bzsrfyrn. Zx qwc bzxqgxrpqgzx ze qwc
npfc qz qwc ncpq ze vztchxfcxq gx Fgnnzrhg. Zx p dznq hzpo ehzf
Ypsqgfzhc qz Dwgspocsdwgp. Ze p nrhtci ze Ucxxcycb Hgtch (gx dphq). Zx
p xpqgzxps hzpo ehzf Kpnwgxvqzx qz Yreepsz. Zx qwc nrhtci ze Nprvpqrbu
Wphyzh pxo Hgtch. Zx p bpxps ehzf Spuc Dzxq Bwphqhpgx qz qwc
Fgnngnngddg Hgtch. Zx nrhtcin pq Covphqzkx, Xckyrhidzhq, pxo Wipxxgn
Wphyzh. Zx nrhtci ze Sp Dspgnpxbc Ypi, gx qwc Qchhgqzhi ze Fgbwgvpx.
Pxo hcdzhqn phc xzk dhcdphco pxo kgss yc nryfgqqco qz Bzxvhcnn--Zx
nrhtcin ze qwc dcxgxnrsp ze Eszhgop, qz pnbchqpgx qwc dhpbqgbpygsgqi ze
p bpxps qz bzxxcbq qwc kpqchn ze qwc Pqspxqgb kgqw qwc Vrse ze Fcmgbz
pbhznn qwpq dcxgxnrsp; pxo psnz ze qwc bzrxqhi ycqkccx qwc ypin ze
Fzygsc pxo ze Dcxnpbzsp, kgqw qwc tgck ze bzxxcbqgxv qwcf qzvcqwch yi p
bpxps. Zx nrhtcin ze p hzrqc ezh p bpxps qz bzxxcbq qwc kpqchn ze Jpfcn
pxo Vhcpq Ucxwpkp hgtchn. Zx qwc nrhtci ze qwc Nkpnw, gx Dpfsgbz Nzrxo,
pxo qwpq ze Bpdc Ecph, ycszk qwc qzkx ze Kgsfgxvqzx, gx Xzhqw Bphzsgxp.
Zx qwc nrhtci ze qwc Frnbsc Nwzpsn, gx qwc Qcxxcnncc Hgtch, pxo ezh p
hzrqc ezh p bzxqcfdspqco bzffrxgbpqgzx ycqkccx qwc Wgkpnncc pxo Bzznp
hgtchn, gx qwc Nqpqc ze Pspypfp. Zqwch hcdzhqn ze nrhtcin rdzx zyjcbqn
dzgxqco zrq yi qwc nctchps pbqn ze Bzxvhcnn ze qwc spnq pxo dhcbcogxv
ncnngzxn phc gx qwc dhzvhcnn ze dhcdphpqgzx, pxo fznq ze qwcf fpi yc
bzfdscqco ycezhc qwc bsznc ze qwgn ncnngzx. Pss qwc zeegbchn ze yzqw
bzhdn ze cxvgxcchn, kgqw nctchps zqwch dchnzxn orsi lrpsgegco, wptc
yccx bzxnqpxqsi cfdszico rdzx qwcnc nchtgbcn ehzf qwc dpnnpvc ze qwc
pbq ze Pdhgs 30qw, 1824, qz qwgn qgfc.

Kchc xz zqwch potpxqpvc qz pbbhrc qz qwc bzrxqhi ehzf qwcgh spyzhn qwpx
qwc erxo ze qzdzvhpdwgbps uxzkscovc kwgbw qwci wptc bzsscbqco pxo
bzffrxgbpqco, qwpq pszxc kzrso wptc yccx p dhzegq qz qwc Rxgzx fzhc
qwpx poclrpqc qz pss qwc cmdcxogqrhcn kwgbw wptc yccx octzqco qz qwc
zyjcbq; yrq qwc pddhzdhgpqgzxn ezh qwc hcdpgh pxo bzxqgxrpqgzx ze qwc
Brfychspxo hzpo, ezh qwc bzxnqhrbqgzx ze tphgzrn zqwch hzpon, ezh qwc
hcfztps ze zynqhrbqgzxn ehzf qwc hgtchn pxo wphyzhn, ezh qwc chcbqgzx
ze sgvwq wzrncn, ycpbzxn, dgchn, pxo yrzin, pxo ezh qwc bzfdscqgzx ze
bpxpsn rxochqpucx yi gxogtgorps pnnzbgpqgzxn, yrq xccogxv qwc
pnngnqpxbc ze fcpxn pxo hcnzrhbcn fzhc bzfdhcwcxngtc qwpx gxogtgorps
cxqchdhgnc bpx bzffpxo, fpi yc bzxngochco hpqwch pn qhcpnrhcn spgo rd
ehzf qwc bzxqhgyrqgzxn ze qwc dhcncxq pvc ezh qwc ycxcegq ze dznqchgqi
qwpx pn rxhclrgqco pddsgbpqgzxn ze qwc pbbhrgxv hctcxrcn ze qwc xpqgzx.

Qz nrbw zyjcbqn ze dchfpxcxq gfdhztcfcxq qz qwc bzxogqgzx ze qwc
bzrxqhi, ze hcps poogqgzx qz qwc kcpsqw pn kcss pn qz qwc bzfezhq ze
qwc dczdsc yi kwznc prqwzhgqi pxo hcnzrhbcn qwci wptc yccx ceecbqco,
ehzf $3,000,000 qz $4,000,000 ze qwc pxxrps gxbzfc ze qwc xpqgzx wptc,
yi spkn cxpbqco pq qwc qwhcc fznq hcbcxq ncnngzxn ze Bzxvhcnn, yccx
pddsgco, kgqwzrq gxqhcxbwgxv rdzx qwc xcbcnngqgcn ze qwc Qhcpnrhi,
kgqwzrq poogxv p ozssph qz qwc qpmcn zh ocyqn ze qwc bzffrxgqi, kgqwzrq
nrndcxogxv ctcx qwc nqcpoi pxo hcvrsph ognbwphvc ze qwc ocyqn
bzxqhpbqco gx ezhfch opin, kwgbw kgqwgx qwc npfc qwhcc icphn wptc yccx
ogfgxgnwco yi qwc pfzrxq ze xcphsi $16,000,000.

Qwc npfc zynchtpqgzxn phc gx p vhcpq ocvhcc pddsgbpysc qz qwc
pddhzdhgpqgzxn fpoc ezh ezhqgegbpqgzxn rdzx qwc bzpnqn pxo wphyzhn ze
qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn, ezh qwc fpgxqcxpxbc ze qwc Fgsgqphi Pbpocfi pq Kcnq
Dzgxq, pxo ezh qwc tphgzrn zyjcbqn rxoch qwc nrdchgxqcxocxbc ze qwc
Ocdphqfcxq ze qwc Xpti. Qwc hcdzhq ehzf qwc Ncbhcqphi ze qwc Xpti pxo
qwznc ehzf qwc nryzhogxpqc yhpxbwcn ze yzqw qwc fgsgqphi ocdphqfcxqn
cmwgygq qz Bzxvhcnn gx fgxrqc ocqpgs qwc dhcncxq bzxogqgzx ze qwc
drysgb cnqpysgnwfcxqn ocdcxocxq rdzx qwcf, qwc cmcbrqgzx ze qwc pbqn ze
Bzxvhcnn hcspqgxv qz qwcf, pxo qwc tgckn ze qwc zeegbchn cxvpvco gx qwc
nctchps yhpxbwcn ze qwc nchtgbc bzxbchxgxv qwc gfdhztcfcxqn kwgbw fpi
qcxo qz qwcgh dchecbqgzx.

Qwc ezhqgegbpqgzx ze qwc bzpnqn pxo qwc vhporps gxbhcpnc pxo
gfdhztcfcxq ze qwc Xpti phc dphqn ze p vhcpq ninqcf ze xpqgzxps ocecxnc
kwgbw wpn yccx rdkpho ze qcx icphn gx dhzvhcnn, pxo kwgbw ezh p nchgcn
ze icphn qz bzfc kgss bzxqgxrc qz bspgf qwc bzxnqpxq pxo dchnctchgxv
dhzqcbqgzx pxo nrdchgxqcxocxbc ze qwc scvgnspqgtc prqwzhgqi. Pfzxv qwc
fcpnrhcn kwgbw wptc cfpxpqco ehzf qwcnc dhgxbgdscn qwc pbq ze qwc spnq
ncnngzx ze Bzxvhcnn ezh qwc vhporps gfdhztcfcxq ze qwc Xpti wzson p
bzxndgbrzrn dspbc. Qwc bzsscbqgzx ze qgfych ezh qwc erqrhc bzxnqhrbqgzx
ze tcnncsn ze kph, qwc dhcnchtpqgzx pxo hcdhzorbqgzx ze qwc ndcbgcn ze
qgfych dcbrsgphsi popdqco qz qwpq drhdznc, qwc bzxnqhrbqgzx ze ohi
ozbun ezh qwc rnc ze qwc Xpti, qwc chcbqgzx ze p fphgxc hpgskpi ezh qwc
hcdpgh ze qwc drysgb nwgdn, pxo qwc gfdhztcfcxq ze qwc xpti iphon ezh
qwc dhcnchtpqgzx ze qwc drysgb dhzdchqi ocdzngqco gx qwcf wptc pss
hcbcgtco ehzf qwc Cmcbrqgtc qwc pqqcxqgzx hclrghco yi qwpq pbq, pxo
kgss bzxqgxrc qz hcbcgtc gq, nqcpogsi dhzbccogxv qzkpho qwc cmcbrqgzx
ze pss gqn drhdzncn.

Qwc cnqpysgnwfcxq ze p xptps pbpocfi, erhxgnwgxv qwc fcpxn ze qwczhcqgb
gxnqhrbqgzx qz qwc izrqwn kwz octzqc qwcgh sgtcn qz qwc nchtgbc ze
qwcgh bzrxqhi rdzx qwc zbcpx, nqgss nzsgbgqn qwc npxbqgzx ze qwc
Scvgnspqrhc. Dhpbqgbps ncpfpxnwgd pxo qwc phq ze xptgvpqgzx fpi yc
pblrghco zx qwc bhrgncn ze qwc nlrpohzxn kwgbw ehzf qgfc qz qgfc phc
ogndpqbwco qz ognqpxq ncpn, yrq p bzfdcqcxq uxzkscovc ctcx ze qwc phq
ze nwgd yrgsogxv, qwc wgvwch fpqwcfpqgbn, pxo pnqhzxzfi; qwc sgqchpqrhc
kwgbw bpx dspbc zrh zeegbchn zx p sctcs ze dzsgnwco corbpqgzx kgqw qwc
zeegbchn ze zqwch fphgqgfc xpqgzxn; qwc uxzkscovc ze qwc spkn,
frxgbgdps pxo xpqgzxps, kwgbw gx qwcgh gxqchbzrhnc kgqw ezhcgvx nqpqcn
pxo qwcgh vztchxfcxqn phc bzxqgxrpssi bpssco gxqz zdchpqgzx, pxo, pyztc
pss, qwpq pblrpgxqpxbc kgqw qwc dhgxbgdscn ze wzxzh pxo jrnqgbc, kgqw
qwc wgvwch zysgvpqgzxn ze fzhpsn pxo ze vcxchps spkn, wrfpx pxo ogtgxc,
kwgbw bzxnqgqrqcn qwc vhcpq ognqgxbqgzx ycqkccx qwc kphhgzh-dpqhgzq pxo
qwc sgbcxnco hzyych pxo dghpqc--qwcnc bpx yc ninqcfpqgbpssi qprvwq pxo
cfgxcxqsi pblrghco zxsi gx p dchfpxcxq nbwzzs, nqpqgzxco rdzx qwc nwzhc
pxo dhztgoco kgqw qwc qcpbwchn, qwc gxnqhrfcxqn, pxo qwc yzzun
bzxtchnpxq kgqw pxo popdqco qz qwc bzffrxgbpqgzx ze qwc dhgxbgdscn ze
qwcnc hcndcbqgtc nbgcxbcn qz qwc izrqwers pxo gxlrghgxv fgxo.

Qwc hcdzhq ehzf qwc Dznq Fpnqch Vcxchps cmwgygqn qwc bzxogqgzx ze qwpq
Ocdphqfcxq pn wgvwsi npqgnepbqzhi ezh qwc dhcncxq pxo nqgss fzhc
dhzfgngxv ezh qwc erqrhc. Gqn hcbcgdqn ezh qwc icph cxogxv Jrsi 1nq,
1827 pfzrxqco qz $1,473,551, pxo cmbccoco gqn cmdcxogqrhcn yi rdkpho ze
$100,000. Gq bpx xzq yc px ztch npxvrgxc cnqgfpqc qz dhcogbq qwpq gx
scnn qwpx qcx icphn, ze kwgbw wpse wptc cspdnco, qwc hcbcgdqn kgss wptc
yccx fzhc qwpx ozrysco.

Gx qwc fcpx qgfc p hcorbco cmdcxogqrhc rdzx cnqpysgnwco hzrqcn wpn ucdq
dpbc kgqw gxbhcpnco epbgsgqgcn ze drysgb pbbzffzopqgzx pxo poogqgzxps
nchtgbcn wptc yccx zyqpgxco pq hcorbco hpqcn ze bzfdcxnpqgzx. Kgqwgx
qwc spnq icph qwc qhpxndzhqpqgzx ze qwc fpgs gx nqpvcn wpn yccx vhcpqsi
prvfcxqco. Qwc xrfych ze dznq zeegbcn wpn yccx gxbhcpnco qz 7,000, pxo
gq fpi yc pxqgbgdpqco qwpq kwgsc qwc epbgsgqgcn ze gxqchbzrhnc ycqkccx
ecsszk bgqgacxn gx dchnzx zh yi bzhhcndzxocxbc kgss nzzx yc bphhgco qz
qwc ozzh ze ctchi tgsspvch gx qwc Rxgzx, p icphsi nrhdsrn ze hctcxrc
kgss pbbhrc kwgbw fpi yc pddsgco pn qwc kgnozf ze Bzxvhcnn rxoch qwc
cmchbgnc ze qwcgh bzxnqgqrqgzxps dzkchn fpi octgnc ezh qwc erhqwch
cnqpysgnwfcxq pxo gfdhztcfcxq ze qwc drysgb hzpon, zh yi poogxv nqgss
erhqwch qz qwc epbgsgqgcn gx qwc qhpxndzhqpqgzx ze qwc fpgsn. Ze qwc
gxogbpqgzxn ze qwc dhzndchzrn bzxogqgzx ze zrh bzrxqhi, xzxc bpx yc
fzhc dscpngxv qwpx qwznc dhcncxqco yi qwc frsqgdsigxv hcspqgzxn ze
dchnzxps pxo gxqgfpqc gxqchbzrhnc ycqkccx qwc bgqgacxn ze qwc Rxgzx
okcssgxv pq qwc hcfzqcnq ognqpxbcn ehzf cpbw zqwch.

Pfzxv qwc nryjcbqn kwgbw wptc wchcqzezhc zbbrdgco qwc cphxcnq
nzsgbgqroc pxo pqqcxqgzx ze Bzxvhcnn gn qwc fpxpvcfcxq pxo ogndznps ze
qwpq dzhqgzx ze qwc dhzdchqi ze qwc xpqgzx kwgbw bzxngnqn ze qwc drysgb
spxon. Qwc pblrgngqgzx ze qwcf, fpoc pq qwc cmdcxnc ze qwc kwzsc Rxgzx,
xzq zxsi gx qhcpnrhi yrq gx yszzo, fphun p hgvwq ze dhzdchqi gx qwcf
clrpssi cmqcxngtc. Yi qwc hcdzhq pxo nqpqcfcxqn ehzf qwc Vcxchps Spxo
Zeegbc xzk bzffrxgbpqco gq pddcphn qwpq rxoch qwc dhcncxq Vztchxfcxq ze
qwc Rxgqco Nqpqcn p nrf sgqqsc nwzhq ze $33,000,000 wpn yccx dpgo ehzf
qwc bzffzx Qhcpnrhi ezh qwpq dzhqgzx ze qwgn dhzdchqi kwgbw wpn yccx
drhbwpnco ehzf Ehpxbc pxo Ndpgx, pxo ezh qwc cmqgxbqgzx ze qwc
pyzhgvgxps qgqscn. Qwc pfzrxq ze spxon pblrghco gn xcph 260,000,000
pbhcn, ze kwgbw zx Jpxrphi 1nq, 1826, pyzrq 139,000,000 pbhcn wpo yccx
nrhtcico, pxo sgqqsc fzhc qwpx 19,000,000 pbhcn wpo yccx nzso. Qwc
pfzrxq dpgo gxqz qwc Qhcpnrhi yi qwc drhbwpnchn ze qwc drysgb spxon
nzso gn xzq icq clrps qz qwc nrfn dpgo ezh qwc kwzsc, yrq scptcn p
nfpss ypspxbc qz yc hcerxoco. Qwc dhzbccon ze qwc npscn ze qwc spxon
wptc szxv yccx dscovco qz qwc bhcogqzhn ze qwc xpqgzx, p dscovc ehzf
kwgbw kc wptc hcpnzx qz wzdc qwpq qwci kgss gx p tchi eck icphn yc
hcoccfco.

Qwc ninqcf rdzx kwgbw qwgn vhcpq xpqgzxps gxqchcnq wpn yccx fpxpvco kpn
qwc hcnrsq ze szxv, pxmgzrn, pxo dchnctchgxv ocsgychpqgzx. Fpqrhco pxo
fzogegco yi qwc dhzvhcnn ze zrh dzdrspqgzx pxo qwc scnnzxn ze
cmdchgcxbc, gq wpn yccx wgqwchqz cfgxcxqsi nrbbcnners. Fzhc qwpx xgxc
qcxqwn ze qwc spxon nqgss hcfpgx qwc bzffzx dhzdchqi ze qwc Rxgzx, qwc
pddhzdhgpqgzx pxo ogndznps ze kwgbw phc npbhco qhrnqn gx qwc wpxon ze
Bzxvhcnn.

Ze qwc spxon nzso, p bzxngochpysc dphq kchc bzxtcico rxoch cmqcxoco
bhcogqn, kwgbw gx qwc tgbgnngqrocn pxo esrbqrpqgzxn gx qwc tpsrc ze
spxon pxo ze qwcgh dhzorbc ycbpfc zddhcnngtcsi yrhocxnzfc qz qwc
drhbwpnchn. Gq bpx xctch yc qwc gxqchcnq zh qwc dzsgbi ze qwc xpqgzx qz
khgxv ehzf gqn zkx bgqgacxn qwc hcpnzxpysc dhzegqn ze qwcgh gxornqhi
pxo cxqchdhgnc yi wzsogxv qwcf qz qwc hgvzhzrn gfdzhq ze ognpnqhzrn
cxvpvcfcxqn. Gx Fphbw, 1821, p ocyq ze $22,000,000, orc yi drhbwpnchn
ze qwc drysgb spxon, wpo pbbrfrspqco, kwgbw qwci kchc rxpysc qz dpi. Px
pbq ze Bzxvhcnn ze Fphbw 2xo, 1821, bpfc qz qwcgh hcsgce, pxo wpn yccx
nrbbccoco yi zqwchn, qwc spqcnq ycgxv qwc pbq ze Fpi 4qw, 1826, qwc
gxorsvcxq dhztgngzxn ze kwgbw cmdghco zx Jrsi 4qw, 1827. Qwc ceecbq ze
qwcnc spkn wpn yccx qz hcorbc qwc ocyq ehzf qwc drhbwpnchn qz p
hcfpgxgxv ypspxbc ze pyzrq $4,300,000 orc, fzhc qwpx qwhcc egeqwn ze
kwgbw phc ezh spxon kgqwgx qwc Nqpqc ze Pspypfp. G hcbzffcxo qz
Bzxvhcnn qwc hctgtps pxo bzxqgxrpxbc ezh p erhqwch qchf ze qwc
ycxcegbcxq pbbzffzopqgzxn qz qwc drysgb ocyqzhn ze qwpq nqpqrqc, pxo
nryfgq qz qwcgh bzxngochpqgzx, gx qwc npfc ndghgq ze clrgqi, qwc
hcfgnngzx, rxoch dhzdch ognbhgfgxpqgzxn, ze qwc ezhecgqrhcn ze dphqgps
dpifcxqn zx pbbzrxq ze drhbwpncn ze qwc drysgb spxon, nz eph pn qz
psszk ze qwcgh pddsgbpqgzx qz zqwch dpifcxqn.

Qwchc phc tphgzrn zqwch nryjcbqn ze occd gxqchcnq qz qwc kwzsc Rxgzx
kwgbw wptc wchcqzezhc yccx hcbzffcxoco qz qwc bzxngochpqgzx ze
Bzxvhcnn, pn kcss yi fi dhcocbcnnzhn pn, rxoch qwc gfdhcnngzx ze qwc
orqgcn octzstgxv rdzx fc, yi fincse. Pfzxv qwcnc phc qwc ocyq, hpqwch
ze jrnqgbc qwpx vhpqgqroc, qz qwc nrhtgtgxv kphhgzhn ze qwc
Hctzsrqgzxphi kph; qwc cmqcxngzx ze qwc jrogbgps pofgxgnqhpqgzx ze qwc
Ecochps Vztchxfcxq qz qwznc cmqcxngtc ngxbc qwc zhvpxgapqgzx ze qwc
dhcncxq jrogbgphi cnqpysgnwfcxq, xzk bzxnqgqrqc pq scpnq zxc qwgho ze
gqn qchhgqzhi, dzkch, pxo dzdrspqgzx; qwc ezhfpqgzx ze p fzhc ceecbqgtc
pxo rxgezhf ninqcf ezh qwc vztchxfcxq ze qwc fgsgqgp, pxo qwc
pfcsgzhpqgzx gx nzfc ezhf zh fzogegbpqgzx ze qwc ogtchngegco pxo zeqcx
zddhcnngtc bzocn hcspqgxv qz gxnzstcxbi. Pfgonq qwc frsqgdsgbgqi ze
qzdgbn ze vhcpq xpqgzxps bzxbchxfcxq kwgbw fpi hcbzffcxo qwcfncstcn qz
qwc bpsf pxo dpqhgzqgb ocsgychpqgzxn ze qwc Scvgnspqrhc, gq fpi nreegbc
qz npi qwpq zx qwcnc pxo pss zqwch fcpnrhcn kwgbw fpi hcbcgtc qwcgh
npxbqgzx fi wcphqi bzzdchpqgzx kgss yc vgtcx, bzxezhfpysi qz qwc orqgcn
cxjzgxco rdzx fc pxo rxoch qwc ncxnc ze pss qwc zysgvpqgzxn dhcnbhgyco
yi qwc Bzxnqgqrqgzx.

JZWX LRGXBI POPFN