Uy uhs Tsjzus zjk Hywts yf Psepstsjuzumnst yf uhs Wjmusk Tuzust:

Zj zeezggmjd xzgzbmuq hzt isfzggsj uhs Zbspmxzj esyegs tmjxs uhsmp xhytsj
psepstsjuzumnst gztu bsu mj uhs hzggt ahsps qyw zps jya zttsbigsk. As bmdhu
sgts psxzgg amuh wjzggyqsk xyjusju uhs pzps epytespmuq amuh ahmxh
uhpywdhywu uhs qszp uhs jzumyj hzt issj igsttsk. Mut hzpnstut hzns issj
egsjusywt; mut nzpmsk mjkwtupmst hzns uhpmnsj; uhs hszguh yf mut esyegs hzt
issj epstspnsk; mu hzt bzmjuzmjsk amuh fypsmdj dynspjbsjut uhs wjkmtuwpisk
psgzumyjt yf zbmuq zjk eszxs. Fyp uhsts bzjmfstuzumyjt yf Hmt fznyp as yas
uy Hmb ahy hygkt ywp kstumjq mj Hmt hzjkt uhs upmiwus yf ywp dpzusfwg
ksnyumyj.

Uy uhzu bqtuspmywt sospxmts yf Hmt amgg ahmxh hzt uzcsj fpyb wt uhs gynsk
zjk mggwtupmywt xmumlsj ahy azt iwu gzusgq uhs hszk yf uhs jzumyj as iya mj
typpya zjk twibmttmyj.

Uhs bsbypq yf hmt sozgusk xhzpzxusp, yf hmt jyigs zxhmsnsbsjut, zjk yf hmt
ezupmyumx gmfs amgg is upsztwpsk fypsnsp zt z tzxpsk eyttsttmyj yf uhs
ahygs esyegs.

Uhs zjjywjxsbsju yf hmt kszuh kpsa fpyb fypsmdj dynspjbsjut zjk esyegst
upmiwust yf tqbezuhq zjk typpya ahmxh hmtuypq amgg psxypk zt tmdjzg uycsjt
yf uhs cmjthme yf jzumyjt zjk uhs fskspzumyj yf bzjcmjk.

Uhs fssgmjd yf dyyk amgg isuassj ywp yaj Dynspjbsju zjk uhzu yf Dpszu
Ipmuzmj azt jsnsp byps bzpcsk uhzj zu epstsju. Mj psxydjmumyj yf uhmt
egsztmjd fzxu M kmpsxusk, yj uhs yxxztmyj yf uhs gzus xsjusjjmzg
xsgsipzumyj zu Qypcuyaj, uhzu z tzgwus is dmnsj uy uhs Ipmumth fgzd.

Tzns fyp uhs xyppsteyjksjxs uy ahmxh M thzgg psfsp hspszfusp mj psgzumyj uy
uhs epyeytsk xzjzg zxpytt uhs Mtuhbwt yf Ezjzbz, gmuugs hzt yxxwppsk aypuhq
yf bsjumyj mj uhs kmegybzumx psgzumyjt yf uhs uay xywjupmst.

Szpgq mj uhs qszp uhs Fypuwjs Izq xgzmbt asps tzumtfzxuypmgq tsuugsk iq uhs
Ipmumth Dynspjbsju ezqmjd mj fwgg uhs twb yf 15,000 eywjkt, bytu yf ahmxh
hzt issj zgpszkq kmtupmiwusk. Zt uhs uspbt yf uhs tsuugsbsju mjxgwksk
xybesjtzumyj fyp mjrwpmst twffspsk iq ywp fmthspbsj zu Ztess Izq, uhsps hzt
issj psuzmjsk fpyb uhs dpytt zazpk z twb ahmxh mt kssbsk zksvwzus fyp uhyts
xgzmbt.

Uhs ezpumxmezumyj yf Zbspmxzjt mj uhs sohmimumyjt zu Bsgiywpjs zjk Tqkjsq
amgg is zeepynmjdgq bsjumyjsk mj uhs pseyput yf uhs uay sohmimumyjt, tyyj
uy is epstsjusk uy Xyjdpstt. Uhsq amgg kmtxgyts uhs pszkmjstt yf ywp
xywjupqbsj uy bzcs twxxsttfwg xybesumumyj mj kmtuzju fmsgkt yf sjuspepmts.

Jsdyumzumyjt fyp zj mjuspjzumyjzg xyeqpmdhu xyjnsjumyj zps mj hyesfwg
epydpstt.

Uhs twppsjksp yf Tmuumjd Iwgg zjk hmt fypxst weyj uhs Xzjzkmzj fpyjumsp hzt
zggzqsk zeepshsjtmyj, zguhywdh iykmst yf Ipmumth Mjkmzjt tumgg xpytt uhs
iypksp mj vwstu yf twtusjzjxs. Weyj uhmt twirsxu z xyppsteyjksjxs hzt issj
yesjsk ahmxh epybmtst zj zksvwzus wjksptuzjkmjd. Ywp upyyet hzns ypkspt uy
znymk bszjahmgs zgg xyggmtmyjt amuh zgmsj Mjkmzjt.

Uhs epstsjxs zu uhs Qypcuyaj xsgsipzumyj yf psepstsjuzumnst yf uhs Fpsjxh
Psewigmx zjk kstxsjkzjut yf Gzfzqsuus zjk yf hmt dzggzju xybezupmyut ahy
asps ywp zggmst mj uhs Psnygwumyj hzt tspnsk uy tupsjduhsj uhs tempmu yf
dyyk amgg ahmxh hzt zgazqt somtusk isuassj uhs uay jzumyjt.

Qyw amgg is fwpjmthsk amuh uhs epyxsskmjdt yf uhs Imbsuzggmx Xyjfspsjxs
hsgk kwpmjd uhs twbbsp zu uhs xmuq yf Ezpmt. Jy zxxypk azt pszxhsk, iwu z
nzgwzigs mjuspxhzjds yf nmsat azt hzk, zjk uhs xyjfspsjxs amgg jsou qszp is
psjsask.

Zu uhs Sgsxupmxzg Sohmimumyj zjk Xyjdpstt, zgty hsgk zu Ezpmt, uhmt xywjupq
azt xpskmuzigq psepstsjusk iq sbmjsju tesxmzgmtut, ahy, mj uhs zitsjxs yf
zj zeepyepmzumyj, dsjspywtgq gsju uhsmp sffmxmsju zmk zu uhs mjtuzjxs yf
uhs Tuzus Ksezpubsju. Ahmgs ywp sohmimuypt mj uhmt zgbytu kmtumjxumnsgq
Zbspmxzj fmsgk yf zxhmsnsbsju hzns ayj tsnspzg nzgwzigs zazpkt, M psxybbsjk
uhzu Xyjdpstt epynmks fyp uhs psezqbsju yf uhs esptyjzg soesjtst mjxwppsk
mj uhs ewigmx mjuspstu iq uhs hyjypzpq xybbmttmyjspt zjk ksgsdzust.

Jy jsa vwstumyjt pstesxumjd uhs tuzuwt yf ywp jzuwpzgmlsk xmumlsjt mj
Dspbzjq hzns zpmtsj kwpmjd uhs qszp, zjk uhs xzwtst yf xybegzmju,
stesxmzggq mj Zgtzxs zjk Gyppzmjs, hzns epzxumxzggq xsztsk uhpywdh uhs
gmispzg zxumyj yf uhs Mbespmzg Dynspjbsju mj zxxseumjd ywp yfusj-soepsttsk
nmsat yj uhs twirsxu. Uhs zeegmxzumyj yf uhs upszuq yf 1868 uy uhs gzusgq
zxvwmpsk Phsjmth epynmjxst hzt psxsmnsk nspq szpjstu zuusjumyj, zjk z
ksfmjmus zjk gztumjd zdpssbsju yj uhmt eymju mt xyjfmksjugq soesxusk. Uhs
ezpumxmezumyj yf uhs kstxsjkzjut yf Izpyj nyj Tuswisj mj uhs Qypcuyaj
fstumnmumst, zjk uhsmp twitsvwsju psxseumyj iq uhsmp Zbspmxzj cmjtbsj,
tupmcmjdgq snmjxsk uhs umst yf dyyk amgg ahmxh wjmus uhs Dspbzj esyegs zjk
ywp yaj.

Ywp mjuspxywpts amuh Tezmj hzt issj fpmsjkgq. Zj zdpssbsju xyjxgwksk mj
Fsipwzpq gztu fmost z uspb fyp uhs gziypt yf uhs Tezjmth zjk Zbspmxzj
Xgzmbt Xybbmttmyj. Uhs Tezjmth Dynspjbsju hzt issj psvwstusk uy ezq uhs
gzus zazpkt yf uhzu Xybbmttmyj, zjk amgg, mu mt isgmsnsk, zxxsks uy uhs
psvwstu zt epybeugq zjk xywpusywtgq zt yj fypbsp yxxztmyjt.

Iq psxsju gsdmtgzumyj yjspywt fmjst hzns issj mbeytsk weyj Zbspmxzj
thmeemjd mj Tezjmth zjk xygyjmzg eyput fyp tgmdhu mppsdwgzpmumst mj
bzjmfstut. Yjs xzts yf hzpkthme mt tesxmzggq aypuhq yf zuusjumyj. Uhs izpc
Bztyjmx, iywjk fyp Rzezj, sjuspsk Bzjmgz mj kmtupstt, zjk mt uhsps tywdhu
uy is xyjfmtxzusk wjksp Tezjmth psnsjws gzat fyp zj zggsdsk thypuzds mj hsp
upzjtthmeesk xzpdy. Uhywdh sffyput fyp hsp psgmsf hzns uhwt fzp epynsk
wjznzmgmjd, mu mt soesxusk uhzu uhs ahygs bzuusp amgg is zkrwtusk mj z
fpmsjkgq tempmu.

Uhs Tsjzus pstygwumyjt yf xyjkygsjxs yj uhs zttzttmjzumyj yf uhs Xlzp
Zgsozjksp MM asps zeepyepmzusgq xybbwjmxzusk uy uhs Pwttmzj Dynspjbsju,
ahmxh mj uwpj hzt soepsttsk mut tqbezuhq mj ywp gzus jzumyjzg ispsznsbsju.
Mu mt kstmpzigs uhzu ywp xypkmzg psgzumyjt amuh Pwttmz thywgk is
tupsjduhsjsk iq epyesp sjdzdsbsjut zttwpmjd uy eszxszigs Zbspmxzjt ahy
nmtmu uhs Sbemps uhs xyjtmkspzumyj ahmxh mt kws uy uhsb zt xmumlsjt yf z
fpmsjkgq tuzus. Uhmt mt stesxmzggq jsskfwg amuh pstesxu uy Zbspmxzj
Mtpzsgmust, ahyts xgzttmfmxzumyj amuh uhs jzumns Hsipsat hzt snycsk
sjspdsumx psbyjtupzjxst fpyb uhmt Dynspjbsju.

Z tweegsbsjuzpq xyjtwgzp zdpssbsju amuh Muzgq hzt issj tzjxumyjsk zjk
epyxgzmbsk, ahmxh ewut zu pstu xyjfgmxut yf rwpmtkmxumyj mj uhs xzts yf
xpmbst yj thmeiyzpk.

Tsnspzg mbeypuzju mjuspjzumyjzg xyjfspsjxst hzns issj hsgk mj Muzgq kwpmjd
uhs qszp. Zu uhs Dsydpzehmxzg Xyjdpstt yf Nsjmxs, uhs Isjsfmxsjxs Xyjdpstt
yf Bmgzj, zjk uhs Hqdmsjmx Xyjdpstt yf Uwpmj uhmt xywjupq azt psepstsjusk
iq ksgsdzust fpyb ipzjxhst yf uhs ewigmx tspnmxs yp iq epmnzus xmumlsjt
kwgq zxxpskmusk mj zj hyjypzpq xzezxmuq. Mu mt hyesk uhzu Xyjdpstt amgg
dmns twxh epybmjsjxs uy uhs pstwgut yf uhsmp ezpumxmezumyj zt uhsq bzq tssb
uy kstspns.

Uhs ziygmumyj yf zgg kmtxpmbmjzumjd kwumst zdzmjtu twxh xygyjmzg
epykwxumyjt yf uhs Kwuxh Sztu Mjkmst zt zps mbeypusk hmuhsp fpyb Hyggzjk
hzt issj zgpszkq xyjtmkspsk iq Xyjdpstt. M upwtu uhzu zu uhs epstsju
tsttmyj uhs bzuusp bzq is fznypzigq xyjxgwksk.

Uhs mjtsxwpmuq yf gmfs zjk epyespuq mj bzjq ezput yf Uwpcsq hzt dmnsj pmts
uy xyppsteyjksjxs amuh uhs Eypus gyycmjd ezpumxwgzpgq uy uhs isuusp
epyusxumyj yf Zbspmxzj bmttmyjzpmst mj uhs Sbemps. Uhs xyjksbjsk bwpkspsp
yf uhs sbmjsju bmttmyjzpq Kp. Rwtumj A. Ezptyjt hzt jyu qsu issj sosxwusk,
zguhywdh uhmt Dynspjbsju hzt pseszuskgq ksbzjksk uhzu sosbegzpq rwtumxs is
kyjs.

Uhs Tamtt Dynspjbsju hzt zdzmj tygmxmusk uhs dyyk yffmxst yf ywp kmegybzumx
zjk xyjtwgzp zdsjut fyp uhs epyusxumyj yf mut xmumlsjt mj xywjupmst ahsps
mu mt jyu mutsgf psepstsjusk. Uhmt psvwstu hzt, amuhmj epyesp gmbmut, issj
dpzjusk.

Ywp zdsjut mj Tamulspgzjk hzns issj mjtupwxusk uy epyustu zdzmjtu uhs
xyjkwxu yf uhs zwuhypmumst yf xspuzmj xybbwjst mj espbmuumjd uhs sbmdpzumyj
uy uhmt xywjupq yf xpmbmjzgt zjk yuhsp yirsxumyjzigs esptyjt. Tsnspzg twxh
esptyjt, uhpywdh uhs xyyespzumyj yf uhs xybbmttmyjspt yf sbmdpzumyj zu Jsa
Qypc, hzns issj tsju izxc iq uhs tuszbspt ahmxh ipywdhu uhsb. Z xyjumjwzjxs
yf uhmt xywpts bzq epyns z byps sffsxuwzg psbskq uhzj kmegybzumx
psbyjtupzjxs.

Upszumst yf xybbspxs zjk jznmdzumyj zjk fyp uhs psdwgzumyj yf xyjtwgzp
epmnmgsdst hzns issj xyjxgwksk amuh Pywbzjmz zjk Tspnmz tmjxs uhsmp
zkbmttmyj mjuy uhs fzbmgq yf Swpyeszj Tuzust.

Zt mt jzuwpzg amuh xyjumdwywt tuzust hznmjd gmcs mjtumuwumyjt zjk gmcs zmbt
yf zknzjxsbsju zjk ksnsgyebsju, uhs fpmsjkthme yf uhs Wjmusk Tuzust zjk
Bsomxy hzt issj xyjtuzjugq bzmjuzmjsk. Uhmt Dynspjbsju hzt gytu jy yxxztmyj
yf sjxywpzdmjd uhs Bsomxzj Dynspjbsju uy z isjsfmxmzg pszgmlzumyj yf uhs
bwuwzg zknzjuzdst ahmxh amgg pstwgu fpyb byps mjumbzus xybbspxmzg
mjuspxywpts zjk fpyb uhs yesjmjd yf uhs pmxh mjuspmyp yf Bsomxy uy pzmgazq
sjuspepmts. M kssb mu mbeypuzju uhzu bszjt is epynmksk uy pstupzmj uhs
gzagsttjstt wjfypuwjzusgq ty xybbyj yj uhs fpyjumsp zjk uy tweepstt uhs
fypzqt yf uhs pstspnzumyj Mjkmzjt yj smuhsp tmks yf uhs Pmy Dpzjks.

Uhs jsmdhiypmjd Tuzust yf Xsjupzg Zbspmxz hzns epstspnsk mjuspjzg eszxs,
zjk uhsmp ywuazpk psgzumyjt uyazpk wt hzns issj uhyts yf mjumbzus
fpmsjkthme. Uhsps zps sjxywpzdmjd tmdjt yf uhsmp dpyamjd kmteytmumyj uy
twiypkmjzus uhsmp gyxzg mjuspstut uy uhyts ahmxh zps xybbyj uy uhsb iq
psztyj yf uhsmp dsydpzehmxzg psgzumyjt.

Uhs iywjkzpq kmtewus isuassj Dwzusbzgz zjk Bsomxy hzt zffypksk uhmt
Dynspjbsju zj yeeypuwjmuq uy sospxmts mut dyyk yffmxst fyp epsnsjumjd z
pweuwps isuassj uhyts Tuzust zjk fyp epyxwpmjd z eszxszigs tygwumyj yf uhs
vwstumyj. M xhspmth tupyjd hyes uhzu mj nmsa yf ywp psgzumyjt yf zbmuq amuh
iyuh xywjupmst ywp fpmsjkgq xywjtsgt bzq epsnzmg.

Z tesxmzg sjnyq yf Dwzusbzgz hzt ipywdhu uy bs uhs xyjkygsjxst yf hmt
Dynspjbsju zjk esyegs yj uhs kszuh yf Epstmksju Dzpfmsgk.

Uhs Xytuz Pmxzj Dynspjbsju gzusgq fpzbsk zj sjdzdsbsju amuh Xygybimz fyp
tsuugmjd iq zpimupzumyj uhs iywjkzpq vwstumyj isuassj uhyts xywjupmst,
epynmkmjd uhzu uhs eytu yf zpimupzuyp thywgk is yffspsk twxxsttmnsgq uy uhs
Cmjd yf uhs Isgdmzjt, uhs Cmjd yf Tezmj, zjk uhs Epstmksju yf uhs Zpdsjumjs
Xyjfskspzumyj. Uhs Cmjd yf uhs Isgdmzjt hzt ksxgmjsk uy zxu, iwu M zb jyu
zt qsu zknmtsk yf uhs zxumyj yf uhs Cmjd yf Tezmj. Zt as hzns xspuzmj
mjuspstut mj uhs kmtewusk usppmuypq ahmxh zps epyusxusk iq ywp upszuq
sjdzdsbsjut amuh yjs yf uhs ezpumst, mu mt mbeypuzju uhzu uhs zpimupzumyj
thywgk jyu amuhywu ywp xyjtsju zffsxu ywp pmdhut, zjk uhmt Dynspjbsju hzt
zxxypkmjdgq uhywdhu epyesp uy bzcs mut nmsat cjyaj uy uhs ezpumst uy uhs
zdpssbsju, zt asgg zt uy mjumbzus uhsb uy uhs Isgdmzj zjk Tezjmth
Dynspjbsjut.

Uhs vwstumyjt dpyamjd ywu yf uhs epyeytsk mjuspyxszjmx azuspazq zxpytt uhs
Mtuhbwt yf Ezjzbz zps yf dpzns jzumyjzg mbeypuzjxs. Uhmt Dynspjbsju hzt jyu
issj wjbmjkfwg yf uhs tygsbj yigmdzumyjt mbeytsk weyj mu iq mut xybezxu yf
1846 amuh Xygybimz, zt uhs mjksesjksju zjk tynspsmdj bmtupstt yf uhs
usppmuypq xpyttsk iq uhs xzjzg, zjk hzt tywdhu uy psjksp uhsb sffsxumns iq
fpsth sjdzdsbsjut amuh uhs Xygybimzj Psewigmx gyycmjd uy uhsmp epzxumxzg
sosxwumyj. Uhs jsdyumzumyjt uy uhmt sjk, zfusp uhsq hzk pszxhsk ahzu
zeeszpsk uy is z bwuwzggq tzumtfzxuypq tygwumyj hsps, asps bsu mj Xygybimz
iq z kmtznyazg yf uhs eyaspt ahmxh mut sjnyq hzk zttwbsk zjk iq z epyeytzg
fyp psjsask jsdyumzumyj yj z bykmfmsk iztmt.

Bszjahmgs uhmt Dynspjbsju gszpjsk uhzu Xygybimz hzk epyeytsk uy uhs
Swpyeszj eyaspt uy rymj mj z dwzpzjuq yf uhs jswupzgmuq yf uhs epyeytsk
Ezjzbz xzjzg--z dwzpzjuq ahmxh aywgk is mj kmpsxu xyjupznsjumyj yf ywp
yigmdzumyj zt uhs tygs dwzpzjuyp yf uhs mjusdpmuq yf Xygybimzj usppmuypq
zjk yf uhs jswupzgmuq yf uhs xzjzg mutsgf. Bq gzbsjusk epsksxsttyp fsgu mu
hmt kwuq uy egzxs isfyps uhs Swpyeszj eyaspt uhs psztyjt ahmxh bzcs uhs
epmyp dwzpzjuq yf uhs Wjmusk Tuzust mjkmtesjtzigs, zjk fyp ahmxh uhs
mjusprsxumyj yf zjq fypsmdj dwzpzjuq bmdhu is psdzpksk zt z twespfgwywt zjk
wjfpmsjkgq zxu.

Fypstssmjd uhs epyizigs psgmzjxs yf uhs Ipmumth Dynspjbsju yj uhs
epynmtmyjt yf uhs Xgzquyj-Iwgasp upszuq yf 1850 zt zffypkmjd pyyb fyp z
thzps mj uhs dwzpzjumst ahmxh uhs Wjmusk Tuzust xynsjzjusk amuh Xygybimz
fywp qszpt isfyps, M hzns jyu hstmuzusk uy tweegsbsju uhs zxumyj yf bq
epsksxsttyp iq epyeytmjd uy Hsp Bzrstuq't Dynspjbsju uhs bykmfmxzumyj yf
uhzu mjtupwbsju zjk uhs zipydzumyj yf twxh xgzwtst uhspsyf zt ky jyu
xybeypu amuh uhs yigmdzumyjt yf uhs Wjmusk Tuzust uyazpk Xygybimz yp amuh
uhs nmuzg jsskt yf uhs uay fpmsjkgq ezpumst uy uhs xybezxu.

Uhmt Dynspjbsju tsst amuh dpszu xyjxspj uhs xyjumjwzjxs yf uhs hytumgs
psgzumyjt isuassj Xhmgs, Iygmnmz, zjk Espw. Zj szpgq eszxs isuassj uhsts
Psewigmxt mt bwxh uy is kstmpsk, jyu yjgq uhzu uhsq bzq uhsbtsgnst is
tezpsk fwpuhsp bmtspq zjk igyykthsk, iwu isxzwts uhsmp xyjumjwsk zjuzdyjmtb
uhpszusjt xyjtsvwsjxst ahmxh zps, mj bq rwkdbsju, kzjdspywt uy uhs
mjuspstut yf psewigmxzj dynspjbsju yj uhmt xyjumjsju zjk xzgxwgzusk uy
kstupyq uhs istu sgsbsjut yf ywp fpss zjk eszxsfwg xmnmgmlzumyj.

Zt mj uhs epstsju soxmusk xyjkmumyj yf eyewgzp fssgmjd mj uhsts xywjupmst
uhsps hzt issj tspmywt bmtzeepshsjtmyj yf uhs eytmumyj yf uhs Wjmusk
Tuzust, zjk zt tsezpzus kmegybzumx mjuspxywpts amuh szxh uhpywdh
mjksesjksju bmjmtuspt mt tybsumbst twirsxu, yamjd uy uhs azju yf epybeu
psxmepyxzg xybbwjmxzumyj, uy usbeypzpq bmtwjksptuzjkmjd, M hzns kssbsk mu
rwkmxmywt zu uhs epstsju umbs uy tsjk z tesxmzg sjnyq zxxpskmusk uy zgg zjk
szxh yf uhsb, zjk fwpjmthsk amuh dsjspzg mjtupwxumyjt ahmxh amgg, M upwtu,
sjzigs hmb uy ipmjd uhsts eyaspt mjuy fpmsjkgq psgzumyjt.

Uhs Dynspjbsju yf Nsjslwsgz bzmjuzmjt mut zuumuwks yf azpb fpmsjkthme zjk
xyjumjwst amuh dpszu psdwgzpmuq mut ezqbsju yf uhs byjuhgq vwyuz yf uhs
kmegybzumx ksiu. Amuhywu twddstumjd uhs kmpsxumyj mj ahmxh Xyjdpstt thywgk
zxu, M ztc mut zuusjumyj uy uhs esjkmjd vwstumyjt zffsxumjd uhs
kmtupmiwumyj yf uhs twbt uhwt fzp psxsmnsk.

Uhs psgzumyjt isuassj Nsjslwsgz zjk Fpzjxs dpyamjd ywu yf uhs tzbs ksiu
hzns issj fyp tybs umbs eztu mj zj wjtzumtfzxuypq tuzus, zjk uhmt
Dynspjbsju, zt uhs jsmdhiyp zjk yjs yf uhs gzpdstu xpskmuypt yf Nsjslwsgz,
hzt mjuspeytsk mut mjfgwsjxs amuh uhs Fpsjxh Dynspjbsju amuh uhs nmsa yf
epykwxmjd z fpmsjkgq zjk hyjypzigs zkrwtubsju.

M psdpsu uhzu uhs xybbspxmzg mjuspstut isuassj uhs Wjmusk Tuzust zjk
Ipzlmg, fpyb ahmxh dpszu zknzjuzdst asps hyesk z qszp zdy, hzns twffspsk
fpyb uhs amuhkpzazg yf uhs Zbspmxzj gmjst yf xybbwjmxzumyj isuassj uhs
Ipzlmgmzj eyput zjk ywp yaj.

Uhpywdh uhs sffyput yf ywp bmjmtusp pstmksju zu Iwsjyt Zqpst zjk uhs Wjmusk
Tuzust bmjmtusp zu Tzjumzdy, z upszuq hzt issj xyjxgwksk isuassj uhs
Zpdsjumjs Psewigmx zjk Xhmgs, kmteytmjd yf uhs gyjd-esjkmjd Ezuzdyjmzj
iywjkzpq vwstumyj. Mu mt z bzuusp yf xyjdpzuwgzumyj uhzu ywp Dynspjbsju hzt
issj zffypksk uhs yeeypuwjmuq yf twxxsttfwggq sospumjd mut dyyk mjfgwsjxs
fyp uhs epsnsjumyj yf kmtzdpssbsjut isuassj uhsts Psewigmxt yf uhs Zbspmxzj
xyjumjsju.

M zb dgzk uy mjfypb qyw uhzu uhs upszumst gzusgq jsdyumzusk amuh Xhmjz hzns
issj kwgq pzumfmsk yj iyuh tmkst zjk uhs soxhzjds bzks zu Escmjd.
Gsdmtgzumyj mt jsxsttzpq uy xzppq uhsmp epynmtmyjt mjuy sffsxu. Uhs epybeu
zjk fpmsjkgq tempmu amuh ahmxh uhs Xhmjsts Dynspjbsju, zu uhs psvwstu yf
uhs Wjmusk Tuzust, xyjxsksk uhs bykmfmxzumyj yf somtumjd upszumst thywgk
tsxwps xzpsfwg psdzpk fyp uhs mjuspstut zjk twtxseumimgmumst yf uhzu
Dynspjbsju mj uhs sjzxubsju yf zjq gzat psgzumjd uy Xhmjsts mbbmdpzumyj.

Uhyts xgzwtst yf uhs upszumst ahmxh fypimk uhs ezpumxmezumyj yf xmumlsjt yp
nsttsgt yf uhs Wjmusk Tuzust mj uhs yemwb upzks amgg kywiugstt psxsmns qywp
zeepynzg. Uhsq amgg zuustu uhs tmjxsps mjuspstu ahmxh ywp esyegs zjk
Dynspjbsju fssg mj uhs xybbsjkzigs sffyput yf uhs Xhmjsts Dynspjbsju uy ewu
z tuye uy uhmt ksbypzgmlmjd zjk kstupwxumns upzffmx.

Mj psgzumyj iyuh uy Xhmjz zjk Rzezj tybs xhzjdst zps kstmpzigs mj ywp
epstsju tqtusb yf xyjtwgzp rwpmtkmxumyj. M hyes zu tybs fwuwps umbs uy gzq
isfyps qyw z txhsbs fyp mut mbepynsbsju mj uhs sjumps Sztu.

Uhs mjumbzxq isuassj ywp yaj xywjupq zjk Rzezj, uhs bytu zknzjxsk yf uhs
Sztuspj jzumyjt, xyjumjwst uy is xypkmzg. M zb zknmtsk uhzu uhs Sbespyp
xyjusbegzust uhs stuzigmthbsju yf fwgg xyjtumuwumyjzg dynspjbsju, zjk uhzu
hs hzt zgpszkq twbbyjsk z ezpgmzbsjuzpq xyjdpstt fyp uhs ewpeyts yf
sffsxumjd uhs xhzjds. Twxh z psbzpczigs tuse uyazpk xybegsus zttmbmgzumyj
amuh uhs Astuspj tqtusb xzj jyu fzmg uy ipmjd Rzezj mjuy xgytsp zjk byps
isjsfmxmzg psgzumyjthme amuh ywptsgnst zt uhs xhmsf Ezxmfmx eyasp.

Z vwstumyj hzt zpmtsj mj psgzumyj uy uhs sospxmts mj uhzu xywjupq yf uhs
rwkmxmzg fwjxumyjt xyjfsppsk weyj ywp bmjmtuspt zjk xyjtwgt. Uhs
mjkmxubsju, upmzg, zjk xyjnmxumyj mj uhs xyjtwgzp xywpu zu Qycyhzbz yf Ryhj
Pytt, z bspxhzju tszbzj yj iyzpk zj Zbspmxzj nsttsg, hzns bzks mu jsxsttzpq
fyp uhs Dynspjbsju uy mjtumuwus z xzpsfwg sozbmjzumyj mjuy uhs jzuwps zjk
bsuhykt yf uhmt rwpmtkmxumyj.

Mu zeeszpsk uhzu Pytt azt psdwgzpgq thmeesk wjksp uhs fgzd yf uhs Wjmusk
Tuzust, iwu azt iq impuh z Ipmumth twirsxu. Bq epsksxsttyp fsgu mu hmt kwuq
uy bzmjuzmj uhs eytmumyj uhzu kwpmjd hmt tspnmxs zt z psdwgzpgq thmeesk
tszbzj yj iyzpk zj Zbspmxzj bspxhzju nsttsg Pytt azt twirsxu uy uhs gzat yf
uhzu tspnmxs zjk uy uhs rwpmtkmxumyj yf uhs Wjmusk Tuzust xyjtwgzp
zwuhypmumst.

M psjsa uhs psxybbsjkzumyj ahmxh hzt issj hspsuyfyps wpdsk iq uhs Sosxwumns
weyj uhs zuusjumyj yf Xyjdpstt, uhzu zfusp uhs kskwxumyj yf twxh zbywju zt
bzq is fywjk kws uy Zbspmxzj xmumlsjt uhs izgzjxs yf uhs mjksbjmuq fwjkt
hspsuyfyps yiuzmjsk fpyb Xhmjz zjk Rzezj, zjk ahmxh zps jya mj uhs hzjkt yf
uhs Tuzus Ksezpubsju, is psuwpjsk uy uhs Dynspjbsjut yf uhyts xywjupmst.

Uhs Cmjd yf Hzazmm, mj uhs xywpts yf hmt hybsazpk psuwpj zfusp z rywpjsq
zpywjk uhs aypgk, hzt gzusgq nmtmusk uhmt xywjupq. Ahmgs ywp psgzumyjt amuh
uhzu Cmjdkyb zps fpmsjkgq, uhmt Dynspjbsju hzt nmsask amuh xyjxspj uhs
sffyput uy tssc psegsjmthbsju yf uhs kmbmjmthmjd eyewgzumyj yf uhs mtgzjkt
fpyb ywuazpk tywpxst, uy z ksdpss ahmxh bzq mbezmp uhs jzumns tynspsmdjuq
zjk mjksesjksjxs, mj ahmxh uhs Wjmusk Tuzust azt zbyjd uhs fmptu uy ustumfq
z gmnsgq mjuspstu.

Psgzumyjt yf wjmbezmpsk zbmuq hzns issj bzmjuzmjsk uhpywdhywu uhs qszp amuh
uhs pstesxumns Dynspjbsjut yf Zwtupmz-Hwjdzpq, Isgdmwb, Ksjbzpc, Hzqum,
Ezpzdwzq zjk Wpwdwzq, Eypuwdzg, zjk Tasksj zjk Jypazq. Uhmt bzq zgty is
tzmk yf Dpssxs zjk Sxwzkyp, zguhywdh ywp psgzumyjt amuh uhyts Tuzust hzns
fyp tybs qszpt issj tsnspsk iq uhs amuhkpzazg yf zeepyepmzumyjt fyp
kmegybzumx psepstsjuzumnst zu Zuhsjt zjk Vwmuy. Mu tssbt soeskmsju uy
pstuyps uhyts bmttmyjt, snsj yj z pskwxsk txzgs, zjk M ksxmkskgq psxybbsjk
twxh z xywpts amuh pstesxu uy Sxwzkyp, ahmxh mt gmcsgq amuhmj uhs jszp
fwuwps uy egzq zj mbeypuzju ezpu zbyjd uhs jzumyjt yf uhs Tywuhspj
Ezxmfmx.

Zu mut gztu soupz tsttmyj uhs Tsjzus xzggsk fyp uhs usou yf uhs Dsjsnz
xyjnsjumyj fyp uhs psgmsf yf uhs aywjksk mj azp. M upwtu uhzu uhmt zxumyj
fypsthzkyat twxh mjuspstu mj uhs twirsxu zt amgg pstwgu mj uhs zkhstmyj yf
uhs Wjmusk Tuzust uy uhzu hwbzjs zjk xybbsjkzigs sjdzdsbsju.

M mjnmus qywp zuusjumyj uy uhs epyepmsuq yf zkyeumjd uhs jsa xyks yf
mjuspjzumyjzg pwgst fyp uhs epsnsjumyj yf xyggmtmyjt yj uhs hmdh tszt zjk
yf xyjfypbmjd uhs kybstumx gsdmtgzumyj yf uhs Wjmusk Tuzust uhspsuy, ty
uhzu jy xyjfwtmyj bzq zpmts fpyb uhs zeegmxzumyj yf xyjfgmxumjd pwgst mj
uhs xzts yf nsttsgt yf kmffspsju jzumyjzgmumst bssumjd mj umkzg azuspt.
Uhsts mjuspjzumyjzg pwgst kmffsp iwu tgmdhugq fpyb ywp yaj. Uhsq hzns issj
zkyeusk iq uhs Jznq Ksezpubsju fyp uhs dynspjzjxs yf uhs azp thmet yf uhs
Wjmusk Tuzust yj uhs hmdh tszt zjk mj fypsmdj azuspt, zjk, uhpywdh uhs
zxumyj yf uhs Tuzus Ksezpubsju mj kmttsbmjzumjd uhs pwgst zjk mj
zxvwzmjumjd thmebztuspt amuh uhs yeumyj yf xyjfypbmjd uy uhsb amuhywu uhs
rwpmtkmxumyjzg azuspt yf uhs Wjmusk Tuzust, uhsq zps jya nspq dsjspzggq
cjyaj zjk yisqsk.

Uhs Tuzus Ksezpubsju tumgg xyjumjwst uy ewigmth uy uhs xywjupq uhs upzks
zjk bzjwfzxuwpmjd pseyput psxsmnsk fpyb mut yffmxspt zipyzk. Uhs twxxstt yf
uhmt xywpts azppzjut mut xyjumjwzjxs zjk twxh zeepyepmzumyj zt bzq is
psvwmpsk uy bssu uhs pzemkgq mjxpsztmjd ksbzjk fyp uhsts ewigmxzumyjt. Amuh
tesxmzg psfspsjxs uy uhs Zugzjuz Xyuuyj Soeytmumyj, uhs Yxuyisp jwbisp yf
uhs pseyput azt ksnyusk uy z nzgwzigs xyggsxumyj yf ezespt yj uhs
xyuuyj-dyykt upzks yf uhs aypgk.

Uhs Mjuspjzumyjzg Tzjmuzpq Xyjfspsjxs fyp ahmxh, mj 1879, Xyjdpstt bzks
epynmtmyj zttsbigsk mj uhmt xmuq szpgq mj Rzjwzpq gztu, zjk mut tsttmyjt
asps epygyjdsk wjumg Bzpxh. Zguhywdh mu pszxhsk jy tesxmfmx xyjxgwtmyjt
zffsxumjd uhs fwuwps zxumyj yf uhs ezpumxmezju eyaspt, uhs mjuspxhzjds yf
nmsat epynsk uy is bytu nzgwzigs. Uhs fwgg epyuyxygt yf uhs tsttmyjt hzns
issj zgpszkq epstsjusk uy uhs Tsjzus.

Zt espumjsju uy uhmt dsjspzg twirsxu, M xzgg qywp zuusjumyj uy uhs
yespzumyjt yf uhs Jzumyjzg Iyzpk yf Hszguh. Stuzigmthsk iq zxu yf Xyjdpstt
zeepynsk Bzpxh 3, 1879, mut tehsps yf kwuq azt sjgzpdsk iq uhs zxu yf Rwjs
2 mj uhs tzbs qszp. Iq uhs gztu-jzbsk zxu uhs iyzpk azt psvwmpsk uy
mjtumuwus twxh bsztwpst zt bmdhu is kssbsk jsxsttzpq fyp epsnsjumjd uhs
mjupykwxumyj yf xyjuzdmywt yp mjfsxumywt kmtsztst fpyb fypsmdj xywjupmst
mjuy uhs Wjmusk Tuzust yp fpyb yjs Tuzus mjuy zjyuhsp.

Uhs sosxwumyj yf uhs pwgst zjk psdwgzumyjt epsezpsk iq uhs iyzpk zjk
zeepynsk iq bq epsksxsttyp hzt kyjs bwxh uy zppstu uhs epydpstt yf semksbmx
kmtszts, zjk hzt uhwt psjkspsk twituzjumzg tspnmxs uy uhs jzumyj.

Uhs Mjuspjzumyjzg Tzjmuzpq Xyjfspsjxs, uy ahmxh M hzns psfsppsk, zkyeusk z
fypb yf z imgg yf hszguh uy is wtsk iq zgg nsttsgt tsscmjd uy sjusp uhs
eyput yf uhs xywjupmst ahyts psepstsjuzumnst ezpumxmezusk mj mut
ksgmispzumyjt. Uhmt fypb hzt tmjxs issj epstxpmisk iq uhs Jzumyjzg Iyzpk yf
Hszguh zjk mjxypeypzusk amuh mut pwgst zjk psdwgzumyjt, ahmxh hzns issj
zeepynsk iq bs mj ewptwzjxs yf gza.

Uhs hszguh yf uhs esyegs mt yf twepsbs mbeypuzjxs. Zgg bsztwpst gyycmjd uy
uhsmp epyusxumyj zdzmjtu uhs tepszk yf xyjuzdmywt kmtsztst zjk uy uhs
mjxpszts yf ywp tzjmuzpq cjyagskds fyp twxh ewpeytst kstspns zuusjumyj yf
Xyjdpstt.

Uhs pseypu yf uhs Tsxpsuzpq yf uhs Upsztwpq epstsjut mj ksuzmg z hmdhgq
tzumtfzxuypq sohmimu yf uhs tuzus yf uhs fmjzjxst zjk uhs xyjkmumyj yf uhs
nzpmywt ipzjxhst yf uhs ewigmx tspnmxs zkbmjmtuspsk iq uhzu Ksezpubsju.

Uhs ypkmjzpq psnsjwst fpyb zgg tywpxst fyp uhs fmtxzg qszp sjkmjd Rwjs 30,
1881, asps:

Fpyb xwtuybt - $198,159,676.02

Fpyb mjuspjzg psnsjws - 135,264,385.51

Fpyb tzgst yf ewigmx gzjkt - 2,201,863.17

Fpyb uzo yj xmpxwgzumyj zjk kseytmut yf jzumyjzg izjct - 8,116,115.72

Fpyb psezqbsju yf mjuspstu iq Ezxmfmx Pzmgazq xybezjmst - 810,833.80

Fpyb tmjcmjd fwjk fyp Ezxmfmx Pzmgazq xybezjmst - 805,180.54

Fpyb xwtuybt fsst, fmjst, esjzgumst, sux. - 1,225,514.86

Fpyb fsst--xyjtwgzp, gsuuspt ezusju, zjk gzjkt - 2,244,983.98

Fpyb epyxsskt yf tzgst yf Dynspjbsju epyespuq - 262,174.00

Fpyb epyfmut yj xymjzds - 3,468,485.61

Fpyb psnsjwst yf uhs Kmtupmxu yf Xygwbimz - 2,016,199.23

Fpyb bmtxsggzjsywt tywpxst - 6,206,880.13

Uyuzg ypkmjzpq psxsmeut - 360,782,292.57

Uhs ypkmjzpq soesjkmuwpst fyp uhs tzbs espmyk asps:

Fyp xmnmg soesjtst - $17,941,177.19

Fyp fypsmdj mjuspxywpts - 1,093,954.92

Fyp Mjkmzjt - 6,514,161.09

Fyp esjtmyjt - 50,059,279.62

Fyp uhs bmgmuzpq stuzigmthbsju, mjxgwkmjd pmnsp zjk hzpiyp mbepynsbsjut
zjk zptsjzgt - 40,466,460.55

Fyp uhs jznzg stuzigmthbsju, mjxgwkmjd nsttsgt, bzxhmjspq, zjk
mbepynsbsjut zu jznq-qzpkt - 15,686,671.66

Fyp bmtxsggzjsywt soesjkmuwpst, mjxgwkmjd ewigmx iwmgkmjdt,
gmdhu-hywtst, zjk xyggsxumjd uhs psnsjws - 41,837,280.57

Fyp soesjkmuwpst yj zxxywju yf uhs Kmtupmxu yf Xygwbimz - 3,543,912.03

Fyp mjuspstu yj uhs ewigmx ksiu - 82,508,741.18

Fyp epsbmwb yj iyjkt ewpxhztsk - 1,061,248.78

Uyuzg ypkmjzpq soesjkmuwpst - 260,712,887.59

Gsznmjd z twpegwt psnsjws yf $100,069,404.98, ahmxh azt zeegmsk zt
fyggyat:

Uy uhs psksbeumyj yf--

Iyjkt fyp uhs tmjcmjd fwjk - $74,371,200.00

Fpzxumyjzg xwppsjxq fyp uhs tmjcmjd fwjk - 109,001.05

Gyzj yf Fsipwzpq, 1861 - 7,418,000.00

Usj-fypumst yf 1864 - 2,016,150.00

Fmns-uasjumst yf 1862 - 18,300.00

Fmns-uasjumst yf 1864 - 3,400.00

Fmns-uasjumst yf 1865 - 37,300.00

Xyjtygt yf 1865 - 143,150.00

Xyjtygt yf 1867 - 959,150.00

Xyjtygt yf 1868 - 337,400.00

Usozj mjksbjmuq tuyxc - 1,000.00

Ygk ksbzjk, xybeywjk-mjuspstu, zjk yuhsp jyust - 18,330.00

Zjk uy uhs mjxpszts yf xzth mj uhs Upsztwpq - 14,637,023.93 -