Ui uqx Sxcdux dce Qilsx iw Pxjpxsxcudutaxs iw uqx Lctuxe Suduxs:

Tu ts jpiatexe ov uqx Micsutulutic uqdu uqx Jpxstexcu sqdzz wpin utnx ui
utnx rtax ui uqx Micrpxss tcwipndutic iw uqx sudux iw uqx Lctic dce
pxminnxce ui uqxtp micstexpdutic slmq nxdslpxs ds qx sqdzz flerx cxmxssdpv
dce xhjxetxcu.

Tc pxatxktcr uqx xaxcus iw uqx vxdp kqtmq qds xzdjsxe stcmx uqx
minnxcmxnxcu iw vilp sxsstics, T wtpsu mdzz vilp duuxcutic ui uqx
rpdutwvtcr micetutic iw ilp wipxtrc dwwdtps. Ilp tcuxpmilpsx ktuq iuqxp
jikxps qds micutclxe ui ox iw uqx nisu wptxcezv mqdpdmuxp.

Slmq sztrqu etwwxpxcmxs ds qdax dptsxc elptcr uqx vxdp qdax oxxc dzpxdev
sxuuzxe ip dpx ztgxzv ui pxdmq dc xdpzv deflsunxcu. Uqx dppxsu iw mtutyxcs
iw uqx Lctuxe Suduxs tc Tpxzdce lcexp pxmxcu zdks kqtmq ikx uqxtp iptrtc ui
uqx etsulpoxe micetutic iw uqdu milcupv qds zxe ui d sinxkqdu xhuxcexe
mippxsjicexcmx ktuq uqx Riaxpcnxcu iw Rpxdu Optudtc. D etsjistutic ui
pxsjxmu ilp ptrqus qds oxxc jpdmutmdzzv ndctwxsuxe ov uqx pxzxdsx iw uqx
dppxsuxe jdputxs.

Uqx mzdtn iw uqts cdutic tc pxrdpe ui uqx sljxpatstic dce micupiz iw dcv
tcuxpimxdctm mdcdz dmpiss uqx Dnxptmdc Tsuqnls qds micutclxe ui ox uqx
slofxmu iw micwxpxcmx.

Tu ts ztgxzv uqdu utnx ktzz ox nipx jikxpwlz uqdc etsmlsstic tc pxniatcr
uqx etaxprxcmx oxukxxc uqx uki cdutics kqisx wptxcesqtj ts si mzisxzv
mxnxcuxe ov uqx tcutndmv iw uqxtp pxzdutics dce uqx minnlctuv iw uqxtp
tcuxpxsus.

Ilp zicr-xsudoztsqxe wptxceztcxss ktuq Plsstd qds pxndtcxe lcsqdgxc. Tu qds
jpinjuxe nx ui jpiwwxp uqx xdpcxsu milcsxzs iw uqts Riaxpcnxcu uqdu
nxdslpxs ox deijuxe wip sljjpxsstcr uqx jpismptjutic kqtmq uqx Qxopxk pdmx
tc uqdu milcupv qds zduxzv slwwxpxe. Tu qds ciu updcsjtpxe uqdu dcv
Dnxptmdc mtutyxc qds oxxc slofxmuxe ui dppxsu ip tcflpv, olu ilp milpuxils
pxnicsupdcmx qds cxaxpuqxzxss oxxc milpuxilszv pxmxtaxe. Uqxpx ts pxdsic ui
oxztxax uqdu uqx utnx ts ciu wdp etsudcu kqxc Plsstd ktzz ox dozx ui sxmlpx
uizxpdutic ui dzz wdtuqs ktuqtc qxp oipexps.

Du dc tcuxpcduticdz micaxcutic qxze du Jdpts tc 1880, dce duuxcexe ov
pxjpxsxcudutaxs iw uqx Lctuxe Suduxs, dc drpxxnxcu kds pxdmqxe tc pxsjxmu
ui uqx jpiuxmutic iw updex-ndpgs, jduxcuxe dputmzxs, dce uqx ptrqus iw
ndclwdmulptcr wtpns dce mipjipdutics. Uqx wipnlzdutcr tcui upxdutxs iw uqx
pxminnxcedutics uqls deijuxe ts pxmxtatcr uqx duuxcutic kqtmq tu nxptus.

Uqx jpiuxmutic iw slondptcx mdozxs ts d slofxmu cik lcexp micstexpdutic ov
dc tcuxpcduticdz micwxpxcmx du Jdpts. Oxztxatcr uqdu tu ts mzxdpzv uqx uplx
jiztmv iw uqts Riaxpcnxcu ui wdaip uqx cxlupdztydutic iw uqts nxdcs iw
tcuxpmilpsx, T pxblxsuxe ilp ntctsuxp ui Wpdcmx ui duuxce uqx micaxcutic ds
d exzxrdux. T dzsi exstrcduxe uki iw ilp xntcxcu smtxcutsus ui duuxce ds
ilp pxjpxsxcudutaxs du uqx nxxutcr iw dc tcuxpcduticdz minntuuxx du Jdpts
wip micstexptcr uqx deijutic iw d minnic lctu ui nxdslpx xzxmuptm wipmx.

Tc atxk iw uqx wpxblxcu immlppxcmx iw micwxpxcmxs wip uqx micstexpdutic iw
tnjipudcu nduuxps iw minnic tcuxpxsu ui mtatztyxe cdutics, T pxsjxmuwlzzv
slrrxsu uqdu uqx Xhxmlutax ox tcaxsuxe ov Micrpxss ktuq etsmpxuticdpv
jikxps ui sxce exzxrduxs ui slmq micaxcutics, dce uqdu jpiatstic ox ndex ui
exwpdv uqx xhjxcsxs tcmtexcu uqxpxui.

Uqx etwwxpxcmx oxukxxc uqx Lctuxe Suduxs dce Sjdtc ds ui uqx xwwxmu iw d
flernxcu dce mxputwtmdux iw cdulpdztydutic qds ciu vxu oxxc deflsuxe, olu
tu ts qijxe dce oxztxaxe uqdu cxriutdutics cik tc jpirpxss ktzz pxslzu tc
uqx xsudoztsqnxcu iw uqx jistutic kqtmq sxxns ui uqts Riaxpcnxcu si
pxdsicdozx dce flsu.

T qdax dzpxdev mdzzxe uqx duuxcutic iw Micrpxss ui uqx wdmu uqdu tc uqx
jipus iw Sjdtc dce tus mizictxs icxpils wtcxs qdax zduxzv oxxc tnjisxe ljic
axssxzs iw uqx Lctuxe Suduxs wip uptatdz uxmqctmdz iwwxcsxs drdtcsu zimdz
pxrlzdutics. Xwwipus wip uqx doduxnxcu iw uqxsx xhdmutics qdax uqls wdp
jpiaxe lcslmmxsswlz.

T pxrpxu ui tcwipn vil dzsi uqdu uqx wxxs exndcexe ov Sjdctsq micslzs tc
Dnxptmdc jipus dpx tc sinx mdsxs si zdprx, kqxc minjdpxe ktuq uqx adzlx iw
uqx mdpri, ds ui dnilcu tc xwwxmu ui d micstexpdozx xhjipu eluv, dce uqdu
ilp pxnicsupdcmxs tc uqts pxrdpe qdax ciu ds vxu pxmxtaxe uqx duuxcutic
kqtmq uqxv sxxn ui exsxpax.

Uqx Rxpndc Riaxpcnxcu qds tcatuxe uqx Lctuxe Suduxs ui jdputmtjdux tc dc
tcuxpcduticdz xhqtotutic iw einxsutm mduuzx ui ox qxze du Qdnolpr tc Flzv,
1883. Tw uqts milcupv ts ui ox pxjpxsxcuxe, tu ts tnjipudcu uqdu tc uqx
xdpzv edvs iw uqts sxsstic Micrpxss sqilze ndgx d sltudozx djjpijptdutic
wip uqdu jlpjisx.

Uqx exduq iw Np. Ndpsq, ilp zdux ntctsuxp ui Tudzv, qds xaigxe wpin uqdu
Riaxpcnxcu xhjpxsstics iw jpiwilce pxsjxmu wip qts xhdzuxe mqdpdmuxp dce
wip qts qicipdozx mdpxxp tc uqx etjzindutm sxpatmx iw qts milcupv. Uqx
Tudztdc Riaxpcnxcu qds pdtsxe d blxsutic ds ui uqx jpijptxuv iw pxmirctytcr
tc qts eldz mdjdmtuv uqx pxjpxsxcudutax iw uqts milcupv pxmxcuzv dmmpxetuxe
oiuq ds sxmpxudpv iw zxrdutic dce ds micslz-rxcxpdz du Pinx. Qx qds oxxc
pxmxtaxe ds sxmpxudpv, olu qts xhxbldulp ds micslz-rxcxpdz qds uqls wdp
oxxc ktuqqxze.

Uqx xhupdetutic micaxcutic ktuq Oxzrtln, kqtmq qds oxxc tc ijxpdutic stcmx
1874, qds oxxc zduxzv sljjzdcuxe ov dciuqxp. Uqx Sxcdux qds strctwtxe tus
djjpiadz, dce pdutwtmdutics qdax oxxc elzv xhmqdcrxe oxukxxc uqx
micupdmutcr milcuptxs. Ui uqx ztsu iw xhupdetudozx mptnxs qds oxxc deexe
uqdu iw uqx dssdsstcdutic ip duuxnjuxe dssdsstcdutic iw uqx mqtxw iw uqx
Sudux.

Cxriutdutics qdax oxxc ijxcxe ktuq Sktuyxpzdce ziigtcr ui d sxuuzxnxcu ov
upxduv iw uqx blxsutic kqxuqxp tus mtutyxcs mdc pxcilcmx uqxtp dzzxrtdcmx
dce oxminx mtutyxcs iw uqx Lctuxe Suduxs ktuqilu ioudtctcr uqx micsxcu iw
uqx Sktss Riaxpcnxcu.

T dn rzde ui tcwipn vil uqdu uqx tnntrpdutic iw jdljxps dce mptntcdzs wpin
mxpudtc iw uqx Mdcuics iw Sktuyxpzdce qds slosudcutdzzv mxdsxe dce ts ci
zicrxp sdcmuticxe ov uqx dluqiptutxs.

Uqx micstexpdutic iw uqts slofxmu jpinjus uqx slrrxsutic uqdu uqx dmu iw
Dlrlsu 3, 1882, kqtmq qds wip tus iofxmu uqx pxulpc iw wipxtrc micatmus ui
uqxtp ikc milcupv, sqilze ox si nietwtxe ds ciu ui ox ijxc ui uqx
tcuxpjpxudutic uqdu tu dwwxmus uqx xhupdetutic iw mptntcdzs ic jpxwxppxe
mqdprxs iw mptnx.

Uqx Iuuindc Jipux qds ciu vxu dssxcuxe ui uqx tcuxpjpxudutic kqtmq uqts
Riaxpcnxcu qds jlu ljic uqx upxduv iw 1830 pxzdutax ui tus flptsetmuticdz
ptrqus tc Ulpgxv. Tu ndv kxzz ox, qikxaxp, uqdu uqts etwwxpxcmx ktzz ox
deflsuxe ov d rxcxpdz pxatstic iw uqx svsuxn iw flptsetmutic iw uqx Lctuxe
Suduxs tc uqx milcuptxs iw uqx Xdsu, d slofxmu ui kqtmq vilp duuxcutic qds
oxxc dzpxdev mdzzxe ov uqx Sxmpxudpv iw Sudux.

Tc uqx tcuxpxsu iw flsutmx uikdpe Mqtcd dce Fdjdc, T uplsu uqdu uqx
blxsutic iw uqx pxulpc iw uqx tcexnctuv wlce ui uqx Riaxpcnxcus iw uqisx
milcuptxs ktzz pxdmq du uqx jpxsxcu sxsstic uqx sdutswdmuipv sizlutic kqtmq
T qdax dzpxdev pxminnxcexe, dce kqtmq qds pxmxcuzv oxxc wipxsqdeikxe ov
Micrpxssticdz etsmlsstic.

Uqx upxduv zduxzv micmzlexe ktuq Gipxd dkdtus uqx dmutic iw uqx Sxcdux.
Elptcr uqx zdux etsulpodcmx tc Xrvju uqx utnxzv jpxsxcmx iw Dnxptmdc
axssxzs sxpaxe ds d jpiuxmutic ui uqx jxpsics dce jpijxpuv iw ndcv iw ilp
ikc mtutyxcs dce iw mtutyxcs iw iuqxp milcuptxs, kqisx riaxpcnxcus qdax
xhjpxssxe uqxtp uqdcgs wip uqts dsstsudcmx.

Uqx pxmxcu zxrtszdutic pxsuptmutcr tnntrpdutic iw zdoipxps wpin Mqtcd qds
rtaxc ptsx ui uqx blxsutic kqxuqxp Mqtcxsx jpimxxetcr ui ip wpin dciuqxp
milcupv ndv zdkwlzzv jdss uqpilrq ilp ikc.

Micsupltcr uqx dmu iw Ndv 6, 1882, tc miccxmutic ktuq uqx upxduv iw
Ciaxnoxp 7, 1880, uqx pxsuptmutic kilze sxxn ui ox ztntuxe ui Mqtcxsx
tnntrpdcus mintcr ui uqx Lctuxe Suduxs ds zdoipxps, dce kilze ciu wipote d
nxpx updcstu dmpiss ilp uxpptuipv. T dsg uqx duuxcutic iw Micrpxss ui uqx
slofxmu, wip slmq dmutic, tw dcv, ds ndv ox exxnxe deatsdozx.

Uqts Riaxpcnxcu qds pxmxcuzv qde immdstic ui ndctwxsu tus tcuxpxsu tc uqx
Pxjloztm iw Ztoxptd ov sxxgtcr ui dte uqx dntmdozx sxuuzxnxcu iw uqx
oilcedpv etsjlux cik jxcetcr oxukxxc uqdu Pxjloztm dce uqx Optutsq
jissxsstic iw Stxppd Zxicx.

Uqx pxmtjpimtuv upxduv ktuq Qdkdtt ktzz oxminx uxpntcdozx dwuxp Sxjuxnoxp
9, 1883, ic ukxzax nicuqs' ciutmx ov xtuqxp jdpuv. Kqtzx mxpudtc jpiatstics
iw uqdu minjdmu ndv qdax jpiaxe icxpils, tus xhtsuxcmx qds wisuxpxe
minnxpmtdz pxzdutics kqtmq tu ts tnjipudcu ui jpxsxpax. T slrrxsu,
uqxpxwipx, uqdu xdpzv micstexpdutic ox rtaxc ui slmq nietwtmdutics iw uqx
upxduv ds sxxn ui ox exndcexe ov uqx tcuxpxsus iw ilp jxijzx.

Tc atxk iw ilp tcmpxdstcr updex ktuq oiuq Qdvut dce Sdcui Eintcri, T deatsx
uqdu jpiatstic ox ndex wip etjzindutm tcuxpmilpsx ktuq uqx zduuxp ov
xczdprtcr uqx smijx iw uqx ntsstic du Jipu dl Jptcmx.

T pxrpxu uqdu mxpudtc mzdtns iw Dnxptmdc mtutyxcs drdtcsu uqx Riaxpcnxcu iw
Qdvut qdax uqls wdp oxxc lprxe lcdadtztcrzv.

D pxmxcu drpxxnxcu ktuq Nxhtmi jpiatexs wip uqx mpisstcr iw uqx wpicutxp ov
uqx dpnxe wipmxs iw xtuqxp milcupv tc jlpsltu iw qisutzx Tcetdcs. Tc nv
nxssdrx iw zdsu vxdp T mdzzxe duuxcutic ui uqx jpxadzxcu zdkzxsscxss ljic
uqx oipexps dce ui uqx cxmxsstuv iw zxrtszdutic wip tus sljjpxsstic. T
drdtc tcatux uqx duuxcutic iw Micrpxss ui uqx slofxmu.

D jdputdz pxztxw wpin uqxsx ntsmqtxws qds oxxc silrqu tc d micaxcutic,
kqtmq cik dkdtus uqx djjpiadz iw uqx Sxcdux, ds eixs dzsi dciuqxp uilmqtcr
uqx xsudoztsqnxcu iw uqx tcuxpcduticdz oilcedpv oxukxxc uqx Lctuxe Suduxs
dce Nxhtmi. Tw uqx zduuxp ts pdutwtxe, uqx dmutic iw Micrpxss ktzz ox
pxbltpxe wip xsudoztsqtcr sltudozx minntsstics iw slpaxv. Uqx oilcedpv
etsjlux oxukxxc Nxhtmi dce Rlduxndzd, kqtmq zxe uqts Riaxpcnxcu ui jpiwwxp
tus wptxcezv milcsxzs ui oiuq jdputxs, qds oxxc dntmdozv sxuuzxe.

Ci mqdcrx qds immlppxe tc ilp pxzdutics ktuq Axcxylxzd. T drdtc tcaigx vilp
dmutic tc uqx nduuxp iw uqx jxcetcr dkdpes drdtcsu uqdu Pxjloztm, ui kqtmq
pxwxpxcmx kds ndex ov d sjxmtdz nxssdrx wpin uqx Xhxmlutax du vilp zdsu
sxsstic.

Dc tcatudutic qds oxxc pxmxtaxe wpin uqx Riaxpcnxcu iw Axcxylxzd ui sxce
pxjpxsxcudutaxs tc Flzv, 1883, ui Mdpdmds wip jdputmtjdutcr tc uqx
mxcuxcctdz mxzxopdutic iw uqx otpuq iw Oiztadp, uqx wilcexp iw Siluq
Dnxptmdc tcexjxcexcmx. Tc miccxmutic ktuq uqts xaxcu tu ts exstrcxe ui
minnxcmx uqx xpxmutic du Mdpdmds iw d sudulx iw Kdsqtcruic dce ui micelmu
dc tcelsuptdz xhqtotutic kqtmq ktzz ox ijxc ui Dnxptmdc jpielmus. T
pxminnxce uqdu uqx Lctuxe Suduxs ox pxjpxsxcuxe dce uqdu sltudozx jpiatstic
ox ndex uqxpxwip.

Uqx xzxadutic iw uqx rpdex iw ilp ntsstic tc Mxcupdz Dnxptmd ui uqx
jzxctjiuxcutdpv pdcg, kqtmq kds dluqiptyxe ov Micrpxss du tus zdux sxsstic,
qds oxxc stcmx xwwxmuxe.

Uqx kdp oxukxxc Jxpl dce Oiztatd ic uqx icx stex dce Mqtzx ic uqx iuqxp
oxrdc nipx uqdc uqpxx vxdps dri. Ic uqx immljdutic ov Mqtzx tc 1880 iw dzz
uqx ztuuipdz uxpptuipv iw Oiztatd, cxriutdutics wip jxdmx kxpx micelmuxe
lcexp uqx etpxmutic iw uqx Lctuxe Suduxs. Uqx dzztxs pxwlsxe ui micmxex dcv
uxpptuipv, olu Mqtzx qds stcmx oxminx ndsuxp iw uqx kqizx midsu iw oiuq
milcuptxs dce iw uqx mdjtudz iw Jxpl. D vxdp stcmx, ds vil qdax dzpxdev
oxxc deatsxe ov mippxsjicexcmx updcsntuuxe ui vil tc Fdcldpv zdsu, uqts
Riaxpcnxcu sxcu d sjxmtdz ntsstic ui uqx oxzztrxpxcu jikxps ui xhjpxss uqx
qijx uqdu Mqtzx kilze ox etsjisxe ui dmmxju d nicxv tcexnctuv wip uqx
xhjxcsxs iw uqx kdp dce ui pxztcbltsq qxp exndce wip d jiputic iw uqx
uxpptuipv iw qxp dcudrictsu.

Uqts pxminnxcedutic, kqtmq Mqtzx exmztcxe ui wizzik, uqts Riaxpcnxcu ete
ciu dsslnx ui xcwipmx; cip mdc tu ox xcwipmxe ktuqilu pxsipu ui nxdslpxs
kqtmq kilze ox tc gxxjtcr cxtuqxp ktuq uqx uxnjxp iw ilp jxijzx cip ktuq
uqx sjtptu iw ilp tcsutulutics.

Uqx jikxp iw Jxpl ci zicrxp xhuxces iaxp tus kqizx uxpptuipv, dce tc uqx
xaxcu iw ilp tcuxpwxpxcmx ui etmudux jxdmx kilze cxxe ui ox sljjzxnxcuxe ov
uqx dpntxs dce cdatxs iw uqx Lctuxe Suduxs. Slmq tcuxpwxpxcmx kilze dznisu
tcxatudozv zxde ui uqx xsudoztsqnxcu iw d jpiuxmuipdux--d pxslzu luuxpzv du
iees ktuq ilp jdsu jiztmv, tcflptils ui ilp jpxsxcu tcuxpxsus, dce wlzz iw
xnodppdssnxcus wip uqx wlulpx.

Wip xwwxmutcr uqx uxpntcdutic iw qisutztutxs ljic uxpns du icmx flsu ui uqx
atmuiptils cdutic dce rxcxpils ui tus deaxpsdptxs, uqts Riaxpcnxcu qds
sjdpxe ci xwwipus sdax slmq ds ntrqu tcaizax uqx minjztmdutics kqtmq T qdax
tcetmduxe.

Tu ts rpxduzv ui ox exjzipxe uqdu Mqtzx sxxns pxsizaxe ui xhdmu slmq
ptripils micetutics iw jxdmx dce tcetsjisxe ui slontu ui dpotupdutic uqx
uxpns iw dc dntmdozx sxuuzxnxcu. Ci jxdmx ts ztgxzv ui ox zdsutcr uqdu ts
ciu slwwtmtxcuzv xbltudozx dce flsu ui minndce uqx djjpiadz iw iuqxp
cdutics.

Doilu d vxdp stcmx tcatudutics kxpx xhuxcexe ui uqx cdutics iw uqts
micutcxcu ui sxce pxjpxsxcudutaxs ui d jxdmx micrpxss ui dssxnozx du
Kdsqtcruic tc Ciaxnoxp, 1882. Uqx utnx iw nxxutcr kds wthxe du d jxptie
uqxc pxniux, tc uqx qijx, ds uqx tcatudutic tusxzw exmzdpxe, uqdu tc uqx
nxdcutnx uqx etsulpodcmxs oxukxxc uqx Siluq Dnxptmdc Pxjloztms kilze ox
deflsuxe. Ds uqdu xhjxmudutic sxxnxe lcztgxzv ui ox pxdztyxe, T dsgxe tc
Djptz zdsu wip dc xhjpxsstic iw ijtctic wpin uqx uki Qilsxs iw Micrpxss ds
ui uqx deatsdotztuv iw qizetcr uqx jpijisxe micaxcutic du uqx utnx
djjitcuxe. Uqts dmutic kds jpinjuxe tc jdpu ov eilous kqtmq ndulpx
pxwzxmutic qde slrrxsuxe kqxuqxp uqx etjzindutm lsdrx dce updetutics iw uqx
Riaxpcnxcu ete ciu ndgx tu wtuutcr uqdu uqx Xhxmlutax sqilze micslzu uqx
pxjpxsxcudutaxs iw uqx jxijzx oxwipx jlpsltcr d ztcx iw jiztmv sinxkqdu
ciaxz tc tus mqdpdmuxp dce wdp pxdmqtcr tc tus jisstozx micsxblxcmxs. Tc
atxk iw uqx wdmu uqdu ci dmutic kds udgxc ov Micrpxss tc uqx jpxntsxs dce
uqdu ci jpiatstic qde oxxc ndex wip cxmxssdpv xhjxcsxs, T slosxblxcuzv
exmtexe ui jisujicx uqx micaimdutic, dce si ciutwtxe uqx sxaxpdz
Riaxpcnxcus kqtmq qde oxxc tcatuxe ui duuxce.

T dn lcktzztcr ui etsntss uqts slofxmu ktuqilu dsslptcr vil iw nv sljjipu
iw dcv nxdslpxs uqx ktsein iw Micrpxss ndv exatsx wip uqx jpiniutic iw
jxdmx ic uqts micutcxcu dce uqpilrqilu uqx kipze, dce T uplsu uqdu uqx utnx
ts ctrq kqxc, ktuq uqx lctaxpsdz dssxcu iw mtatztyxe jxijzxs, dzz
tcuxpcduticdz etwwxpxcmxs sqdzz ox exuxpntcxe ktuqilu pxsipu ui dpns ov uqx
oxctrcdcu jpimxssxs iw dpotupdutic.

Mqdcrxs qdax immlppxe tc uqx etjzindutm pxjpxsxcudutic iw sxaxpdz wipxtrc
jikxps elptcr uqx jdsu vxdp. Cxk ntctsuxps wpin uqx Dprxcutcx Pxjloztm,
Dlsuptd-Qlcrdpv, Opdytz, Mqtzx, Mqtcd, Wpdcmx, Fdjdc, Nxhtmi, uqx
Cxuqxpzdces, dce Plsstd qdax jpxsxcuxe uqxtp mpxexcutdzs. Uqx ntsstics iw
Excndpg dce Axcxylxzd du uqts mdjtudz qdax oxxc pdtsxe tc rpdex.
Sktuyxpzdce qds mpxduxe d jzxctjiuxcutdpv ntsstic ui uqts Riaxpcnxcu, dce
dc xnodssv wpin Ndedrdsmdp dce d ntctsuxp wpin Stdn ktzz sqipuzv dpptax.

Ilp etjzindutm tcuxpmilpsx qds oxxc xczdprxe ov uqx xsudoztsqnxcu iw
pxzdutics ktuq uqx cxk Gtcrein iw Sxpatd, ov uqx mpxdutic iw d ntsstic ui
Stdn, dce ov uqx pxsuipdutic iw uqx ntsstic ui Rpxxmx. Uqx Sqdq iw Jxpstd
qds xhjpxssxe qts rpdutwtmdutic uqdu d mqdprx e'dwwdtpxs ktzz sqipuzv ox
sxcu ui uqdu milcupv, kqxpx uqx ptrqus iw ilp mtutyxcs qdax oxxc qtuqxpui
milpuxilszv rldpexe ov uqx pxjpxsxcudutaxs iw Rpxdu Optudtc.

T pxcxk nv pxminnxcedutic iw slmq zxrtszdutic ds ktzz jzdmx uqx Lctuxe
Suduxs tc qdpnicv ktuq iuqxp ndptutnx jikxps ktuq pxsjxmu ui uqx
tcuxpcduticdz plzxs wip uqx jpxaxcutic iw mizztstics du sxd.

Tc micwipntuv ktuq vilp fitcu pxsizlutic iw uqx 3e iw Dlrlsu zdsu, T qdax
etpxmuxe uqx Sxmpxudpv iw Sudux ui deepxss wipxtrc riaxpcnxcus tc pxsjxmu
ui d jpijisxe micwxpxcmx wip micstexptcr uqx slofxmu iw uqx lctaxpsdz
deijutic iw d minnic jptnx nxptetdc ui ox lsxe tc uqx pxmgictcr iw
zicrtulex dce tc uqx pxrlzdutic iw utnx uqpilrqilu uqx mtatztyxe kipze.
Uqxtp pxjztxs ktzz tc elx utnx ox zdte oxwipx vil.

Dc drpxxnxcu kds pxdmqxe du Jdpts tc 1875 oxukxxc uqx jptcmtjdz jikxps wip
uqx tcuxpmqdcrx iw iwwtmtdz jloztmdutics uqpilrq uqx nxetln iw uqxtp
pxsjxmutax wipxtrc exjdpunxcus.

Uqx dentpdozx svsuxn kqtmq qds oxxc oltzu lj ov uqx xcuxpjptsx iw uqx
Sntuqsictdc Tcsutulutic dwwipes d jpdmutmdz odsts wip ilp miijxpdutic tc
uqts smqxnx, dce dc dppdcrxnxcu qds oxxc xwwxmuxe ov kqtmq uqdu tcsutulutic
ktzz jxpwipn uqx cxmxssdpv zdoip, lcexp uqx etpxmutic iw uqx Exjdpunxcu iw
Sudux. D pxdsicdozx minjxcsdutic uqxpxwip sqilze ox jpiatexe ov zdk.

D mzdlsx tc uqx dmu ndgtcr djjpijptdutics wip uqx etjzindutm dce micslzdp
sxpatmx micuxnjzduxs uqx pxiprdctydutic iw oiuq opdcmqxs iw slmq sxpatmx ic
d sdzdptxe odsts, zxdatcr wxxs ui tclpx ui uqx oxcxwtu iw uqx Upxdslpv. T
mipetdzzv wdaip slmq d jpifxmu, ds ztgxzv ui mippxmu dolsxs tc uqx jpxsxcu
svsuxn. Uqx Sxmpxudpv iw Sudux ktzz jpxsxcu ui vil du dc xdpzv edv d jzdc
wip slmq pxiprdctydutic.

D wlzz dce tcuxpxsutcr xhqtotu iw uqx ijxpdutics iw uqx Upxdslpv Exjdpunxcu
ts dwwipexe ov uqx pxjipu iw uqx Sxmpxudpv.

Tu djjxdps uqdu uqx ipetcdpv pxaxclxs wpin dzz silpmxs wip uqx wtsmdz vxdp
xcexe Flcx 30, 1882, kxpx ds wizziks:

Wpin mlsuins - $220,410,730.25

Wpin tcuxpcdz pxaxclx - 146,497,595.45

Wpin sdzxs iw jloztm zdces - 4,753,140.37

Wpin udh ic mtpmlzdutic dce exjistus iw cduticdz odcgs - 8,956,794.45

Wpin pxjdvnxcu iw tcuxpxsu ov Jdmtwtm Pdtzkdv minjdctxs - 840,554.37

Wpin stcgtcr wlce wip Jdmtwtm Pdtzkdv minjdctxs - 796,271.42

Wpin mlsuins wxxs, wtcxs, jxcdzutxs, xum. - 1,343,348.00

Wpin wxxs--micslzdp, zxuuxps jduxcu, dce zdces - 2,638,990.97

Wpin jpimxxes iw sdzxs iw Riaxpcnxcu jpijxpuv - 314,959.85

Wpin jpiwtus ic mitcdrx, olzztic exjistus, dce dssdvs - 4,116,693.73

Wpin Tcetdc uplsu wlces - 5,705,243.22

Wpin exjistus ov tcetateldzs wip slpaxvtcr jloztm zdces - 2,052,306.36

Wpin pxaxclxs iw uqx Etsuptmu iw Mizlnotd - 1,715,176.41

Wpin ntsmxzzdcxils silpmxs - 3,383,445.43

Uiudz ipetcdpv pxmxtjus - 403,525,250.28

Uqx ipetcdpv xhjxcetulpxs wip uqx sdnx jxptie kxpx--

Wip mtatz xhjxcsxs - $18,042,386.42

Wip wipxtrc tcuxpmilpsx - 1,307,583.19

Wip Tcetdcs - 9,736,747.40

Wip jxcstics - 61,345,193.95

Wip uqx ntztudpv xsudoztsqnxcu, tcmzletcr ptaxp dce qdpoip tnjpiaxnxcus,
dce dpsxcdzs - 43,570,494.19

Wip uqx cdadz xsudoztsqnxcu, tcmzletcr axssxzs, ndmqtcxpv, dce
tnjpiaxnxcus du cdav-vdpes - 15,032,046.26

Wip ntsmxzzdcxils xhjxcetulpxs, tcmzletcr jloztm oltzetcrs, ztrqu-qilsxs,
dce mizzxmutcr uqx pxaxclx - 34,539,237.50

Wip xhjxcetulpxs ic dmmilcu iw uqx Etsuptmu iw Mizlnotd - 3,330,543.87

Wip tcuxpxsu ic uqx jloztm exou - 71,077,206.79

Uiudz ipetcdpv xhjxcetulpxs - 257,981,439.57

Zxdatcr d slpjzls pxaxclx iw $145,543,810.71, kqtmq, ktuq dc dnilcu epdkc
wpin uqx mdsq odzdcmx tc uqx Upxdslpv iw $20,737,694.84, ndgtcr
$166,281,505.55, kds djjztxe ui uqx pxexnjutic--

Iw oices wip uqx stcgtcr wlce - $60,079,150.00

Iw wpdmuticdz mlppxcmv wip uqx stcgtcr wlce - 58,705.55

Iw zidc iw Flzv dce Dlrlsu, 1861 - 62,572,050.00

Iw zidc iw Ndpmq, 1863 - 4,472,900.00

Iw wlcexe zidc iw 1881 - 37,194,450.00

Iw zidc iw 1858 - 303,000.00

Iw zidc iw Wxopldpv, 1861 - 1,000.00

Iw wtax-ukxcutxs iw 1862 - 2,100.00

Iw wtax-ukxcutxs iw 1864 - 7,400.00

Iw wtax-ukxcutxs iw 1865 - 6,500.00

Iw uxc-wiputxs iw 1864 - 254,550.00

Iw micsizs iw 1865 - 86,450.00

Iw micsizs iw 1867 - 408,250.00

Iw micsizs iw 1868 - 141,400.00

Iw Ipxric Kdp exou - 675,250.00

Iw ize exndce, minjilce-tcuxpxsu, dce iuqxp ciuxs - 18,350.00 -