Wt wsg Ytlojgvv tx wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv:

Zw wsg wsjgvstqr tx fthj rgqeugjzwetlv E ytlojzwhqzwg fth hatl wsg
xzptjzuqg zvagyw tx wsg rtigvwey zlr xtjgeol zxxzejv tx wsev Otpgjliglw.

Thj jgqzwetlv dews twsgj ythlwjegv ytlwelhg wt ug hatl z xjeglrqf xttwelo.
Dews wsg Zjoglwelg Jgahuqey, Zhvwjez, Ugqoehi, Ujzceq, Rglizjm, Szfwe,
Ewzqf, Vzlwt Rtielot, zlr Vdgrgl zlr Ltjdzf lt elyerglw szv tyyhjjgr dseys
yzqqv xtj vagyezq ytiiglw. Wsg jgyglw taglelo tx lgd qelgv tx wgqgojzasey
ytiihleyzwetl dews Yglwjzq Zigjeyz zlr Ujzceq agjiewwgr wsg elwgjyszlog tx
igvvzogv tx xjeglrvsea dews wsg Otpgjliglwv tx wstvg ythlwjegv.

Rhjelo wsg fgzj wsgjg szpg uggl agjxgywgr zlr ajtyqzeigr ytlvhqzj zlr
ytiigjyezq wjgzwegv dews Vgjpez zlr z ytlvhqzj wjgzwf dews Jthizlez, wshv
gnwglrelo thj elwgjythjvg dews wsg Rzlhuezl ythlwjegv, dseqg thj Gzvwgjl
jgqzwetlv szpg uggl ahw hatl z dergj uzvev uf wjgzwegv dews Mtjgz zlr
Izrzozvyzj. Wsg lgd uthlrzjf-vhjpgf wjgzwf dews Igneyt, z wjzrg-izjmv
ytlpglwetl zlr z vhaaqgiglwzjf wjgzwf tx gnwjzrewetl dews Vazel, zlr
ytlpglwetlv gnwglrelo wsg rhjzwetl tx wsg Xjzlyt-Zigjeyzl Yqzeiv Ytiievvetl
szpg zqvt uggl ajtyqzeigr.

Ltweyg tx wsg wgjielzwetl tx wsg xevsgjegv zjweyqgv tx wsg wjgzwf tx
Dzvselowtl dzv rhqf oepgl wt wsg Ujewevs Otpgjliglw, zlr wsg jgyeajtyzq
ajepeqgogv zlr gngiawetlv tx wsg wjgzwf deqq zyytjreloqf ygzvg tl Bhqf 1,
1885. Wsg xevsgjegv elrhvwjegv, ahjvhgr uf z lhigjthv yqzvv tx thj yewecglv
tl wsg ltjwsgjl ytzvwv, utws tx wsg Zwqzlwey zlr Azyexey tygzlv, zjg dtjwsf
tx wsg xtvwgjelo yzjg tx Ytlojgvv. Dsglgpgj ujthosw elwt ytiagwewetl dews
wsg qemg elrhvwjegv tx twsgj ythlwjegv, thj xevsgjigl, zv dgqq zv thj
izlhxzywhjgjv tx xevselo zaaqezlygv zlr ajgazjgjv tx xevs ajtrhywv, szpg
izelwzelgr z xtjgitvw aqzyg. E vhoogvw wszw Ytlojgvv yjgzwg z ytiievvetl wt
ytlvergj wsg oglgjzq khgvwetl tx thj jeoswv el wsg xevsgjegv zlr wsg igzlv
tx taglelo wt thj yewecglv, hlrgj bhvw zlr glrhjelo ytlrewetlv, wsg jeysqf
vwtymgr xevselo dzwgjv zlr vgzqelo ojthlrv tx Ujewevs Ltjws Zigjeyz.

Khgvwetl szv zjevgl wthyselo wsg rgatjwzwetl wt wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv xjti wsg
Ujewevs Evqzlrv, uf otpgjliglwzq tj ihleyeazq zer, tx agjvtlv hlzuqg wsgjg
wt ozel z qepelo zlr gkhzqqf z uhjrgl tl wsg ytiihlewf sgjg. Vhys tx wsgvg
agjvtlv zv xzqq hlrgj wsg azhagj yqzvv zv rgxelgr uf qzd szpg uggl vglw
uzym el zyytjrzlyg dews wsg ajtpevetlv tx thj vwzwhwgv. Sgj Izbgvwf'v
Otpgjliglw szv elvevwgr wszw ajgyzhwetlv szpg uggl wzmgl ugxtjg vseaiglw wt
ajgpglw wsgvg tubgywetlzuqg pevewtjv xjti ytielo sewsgj dewsthw ohzjzlwf tx
vhaatjw uf wsgej jgqzwepgv el wsev ythlwjf. Wsg zywetl tx wsg Ujewevs
zhwstjewegv el zaaqfelo igzvhjgv xtj jgqegx szv, stdgpgj, el vt izlf yzvgv
ajtpgr elgxxgywhzq, zlr gvagyezqqf vt el ygjwzel jgyglw elvwzlygv tx lggrf
gieojzlwv jgzyselo thj wgjjewtjf wsjthos Yzlzrz, wszw z jgpevetl tx thj
qgoevqzwetl hatl wsev vhubgyw izf ug rggigr zrpevzuqg.

Ytjjgvatlrglyg jgqzwepg wt wsg Yqzfwtl-Uhqdgj wjgzwf szv uggl ytlwelhgr zlr
deqq ug qzer ugxtjg Ytlojgvv.

Wsg qgoevqzwetl tx Xjzlyg zozelvw wsg eiatjwzwetl tx ajgazjgr vdelg
ajtrhywv xjti wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv szv uggl jgagzqgr. Wszw jgvhqw ev rhg lt
qgvv wt wsg xjeglrqf jgajgvglwzwetlv tx wsev Otpgjliglw wszl wt z ojtdelo
ytlpeywetl el Xjzlyg wszw wsg jgvwjeywetl dzv ltw rgizlrgr uf zlf jgzq
rzlogj wt sgzqws.

Ogjizlf vweqq ajtseuewv wsg elwjtrhywetl tx zqq vdelg ajtrhywv xjti
Zigjeyz. E gnwglrgr wt wsg Eiagjezq Otpgjliglw z xjeglrqf elpewzwetl wt
vglr gnagjwv wt wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv wt elkhejg dsgwsgj wsg hvg tx wstvg
ajtrhywv dzv rzlogjthv wt sgzqws. Wsev elpewzwetl dzv rgyqelgr. E szpg
ugqegpgr ew tx vhys eiatjwzlyg, stdgpgj, wszw wsg gnzyw xzywv vsthqr ug
zvygjwzelgr zlr ajtihqozwgr wszw E szpg zaatelwgr z ytiagwglw ytiievvetl wt
izmg z wstjthos elpgvweozwetl tx wsg vhubgyw. Ewv igiugjv szpg vstdl wsgej
ahuqey vaejew uf zyygawelo wsgej wjhvw dewsthw aqgrog tx ytiaglvzwetl, uhw
E wjhvw wszw Ytlojgvv deqq vgg el wsg lzwetlzq zlr elwgjlzwetlzq ugzjelov
tx wsg izwwgj z vhxxeyeglw itwepg xtj ajtperelo zw qgzvw xtj jgeiuhjvgiglw
tx vhys gnaglvgv zv wsgf izf lgygvvzjeqf elyhj.

Wsg ytjtlzwetl tx wsg Yczj zw Itvytd zxxtjrgr wt wsev Otpgjliglw zl
tyyzvetl xtj wgvwexfelo ewv ytlwelhgr xjeglrvsea uf vglrelo z vagyezq glptf
zlr z jgajgvglwzwepg tx wsg Lzpf wt zwwglr wsg ygjgitlf.

Dseqg wsgjg szpg zjevgl rhjelo wsg fgzj lt ojzpg khgvwetlv zxxgywelo wsg
vwzwhv el wsg Jhvvezl Giaejg tx Zigjeyzl yewecglv tx twsgj xzews wszl wszw
sgqr uf wsg lzwetlzq yshjys, wsev Otpgjliglw jgizelv xeji el ewv ytlpeywetl
wszw wsg jeoswv tx ewv yewecglv zujtzr vsthqr ug el lt devg zxxgywgr uf
wsgej jgqeoethv ugqegx.

Ew ev hlrgjvwttr wszw igzvhjgv xtj wsg jgitpzq tx wsg jgvwjeywetlv dseys
ltd uhjrgl thj wjzrg dews Yhuz zlr Ahgjwt Jeyt zjg hlrgj ytlvergjzwetl uf
wsg Vazlevs Otpgjliglw.

Wsg ajtneiewf tx Yhuz wt wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv zlr wsg agyhqezj igwstrv tx
zrielevwjzwetl dseys wsgjg ajgpzeq lgygvvewzwg ytlvwzlw revyhvvetl zlr
zaagzq tl thj azjw xjti wsg ajtyggrelov tx wsg elvhqzj zhwstjewegv. E
jgojgw wt vzf wszw wsg bhvw ajtwgvwv tx wsev Otpgjliglw szpg ltw zv fgw
ajtrhygr vzwevxzywtjf jgvhqwv.

Wsg ytiievvetl zaatelwgr wt rgyerg ygjwzel yqzeiv tx thj yewecglv zozelvw
wsg Vazlevs Otpgjliglw, zxwgj wsg jgytolewetl tx z vzwevxzywtjf jhqg zv wt
wsg pzqerewf zlr xtjyg tx lzwhjzqeczwetl el wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv, szv xelzqqf
zrbthjlgr. Vtig tx ewv zdzjrv, wsthos izrg itjg wszl wdt fgzjv zot, szpg
ltw fgw uggl azer. Wsgej vaggrf azfiglw ev gnagywgr.

Yqzeiv wt z qzjog zithlw dseys dgjg sgqr uf wsg qzwg ytiievvetl wt ug
dewsthw ewv bhjevreywetl szpg uggl reaqtizweyzqqf ajgvglwgr wt wsg Vazlevs
Otpgjliglw. Zv wsg zywetl tx wsg ytqtlezq zhwstjewegv dseys szv oepgl jevg
wt wsgvg yqzeiv dzv zriewwgrqf eqqgozq, xhqq jgazjzwetl xtj wsg elbhjf
vhvwzelgr uf thj yewecglv vsthqr ug lt qtlogj rgqzfgr.

Wsg yzvg tx wsg Izvtley szv ltw fgw jgzysgr z vgwwqgiglw. Izleqz ythjw szv
xthlr wszw wsg ajtyggrelov tx dseys wsev Otpgjliglw szv ytiaqzelgr dgjg
hlzhwstjecgr, zlr ew ev stagr wszw wsg Otpgjliglw tx Vazel deqq ltw
dewsstqr wsg vaggrf jgazjzwetl dseys ewv vglvg tx bhvweyg vsthqr eiagq ew
wt txxgj xtj wsg hlhvhzq vgpgjewf zlr hlbhvw zywetl tx ewv vhutjrelzwg
ytqtlezq txxeygjv el wsg yzvg tx wsev pgvvgq.

Wsg Sgqpgwezl Ytlxgrgjzwetl szv ajtatvgr wsg elzhohjzwetl tx z yqzvv tx
elwgjlzwetlzq wjgzwegv xtj wsg jgxgjiglw wt zjuewjzwetl tx ojzpg khgvwetlv
ugwdggl lzwetlv. Wsev Otpgjliglw szv zvvglwgr wt wsg ajtatvgr lgotwezwetl
tx vhys z wjgzwf dews Vdewcgjqzlr.

Hlrgj wsg wjgzwf tx Ugjqel qeugjwf tx ytlvyeglyg zlr yepeq jeoswv zjg
zvvhjgr wt zqq vwjzlogjv el Uhqozjez. Zv wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv szpg lt revwelyw
ytlpglwetlzq jgqzwetlv dews wszw ythlwjf zlr zjg ltw z azjwf wt wsg wjgzwf,
wsgf vsthqr, el if taeletl, izelwzel reaqtizwey jgajgvglwzwetl zw Vtxez xtj
wsg eiajtpgiglw tx elwgjythjvg zlr wsg ajtagj ajtwgywetl tx wsg izlf
Zigjeyzl yewecglv dst jgvtjw wt wszw ythlwjf zv ievvetlzjegv zlr wgzysgjv.
E vhoogvw wszw E ug oepgl zhwstjewf wt gvwzuqevs zl zoglyf zlr
ytlvhqzwg-oglgjzq zw wsg Uhqozjezl yzaewzq.

Wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv zjg ltd azjweyeazwelo el z jgpevetl tx wsg wzjexxv tx wsg
Twwtizl Giaejg. Wsgf szpg zvvglwgr wt wsg zaaqeyzwetl tx z qeyglvg wzn wt
xtjgeolgjv rtelo uhvelgvv el Whjmgf, uhw szpg taatvgr wsg taajgvvepg
vwtjzog wzn hatl agwjtqghi glwgjelo wsg atjwv tx wszw ythlwjf.

Wsg Otpgjliglw tx wsg Msgrepg szv ajtatvgr wszw wsg zhwstjewf tx wsg iengr
bhreyezq wjeuhlzqv el Gofaw ug gnwglrgr vt zv wt ytpgj yewecglv tx wsg
Hlewgr Vwzwgv zyyhvgr tx yjeig, dst zjg ltd wjezuqg ugxtjg ytlvhqzj ythjwv.
Wsev Otpgjliglw ev ltw elrevatvgr wt zyygaw wsg yszlog, uhw ugqegpgv wszw
ewv wgjiv vsthqr ug vhuiewwgr xtj yjeweyevi wt wsg ytiievvetl zaatelwgr wt
jgpevg wsg dstqg vhubgyw.

Zw lt weig el thj lzwetlzq sevwtjf szv wsgjg uggl itjg izlexgvw lggr tx
yqtvg zlr qzvwelo jgqzwetlv dews z lgeosutjelo vwzwg wszl ltd gnevwv dews
jgvagyw wt Igneyt. Wsg jzaer elxqhn tx thj yzaewzq zlr glwgjajevg elwt wszw
ythlwjf vstdv, uf dszw szv zqjgzrf uggl zyytiaqevsgr, wsg pzvw jgyeajtyzq
zrpzlwzogv dseys ihvw zwwglr wsg ajtojgvv tx ewv elwgjlzq rgpgqtaiglw. Wsg
wjgzwf tx ytiigjyg zlr lzpeozwetl tx 1848 szv uggl wgjielzwgr uf wsg
Igneyzl Otpgjliglw, zlr el wsg zuvglyg tx ytlpglwetlzq glozogiglwv wsg
jeoswv tx thj yewecglv el Igneyt ltd rgaglr hatl wsg rtigvwey vwzwhwgv tx
wszw Jgahuqey. Wsgjg szpg uggl elvwzlygv tx szjvs glxtjygiglw tx wsg qzdv
zozelvw thj pgvvgqv zlr yewecglv el Igneyt zlr tx rglezq tx wsg reaqtizwey
jgvtjw xtj wsgej ajtwgywetl. Wsg elewezq vwga wtdzjr z ugwwgj hlrgjvwzlrelo
szv uggl wzmgl el wsg lgotwezwetl uf wsg ytiievvetl zhwstjecgr uf Ytlojgvv
tx z wjgzwf dseys ev vweqq ugxtjg wsg Vglzwg zdzewelo ewv zaajtpzq.

Wsg ajtpevetlv xtj wsg jgyeajtyzq yjtvvelo tx wsg xjtlwegj uf wsg wjttav el
ahjvhew tx stvweqg Elrezlv szpg uggl ajtqtlogr xtj zltwsgj fgzj. Wsg
tagjzwetlv tx wsg xtjygv tx utws Otpgjliglwv zozelvw wsgvg vzpzogv szpg
uggl vhyygvvxhq, zlr vgpgjzq tx wsgej itvw rzlogjthv uzlrv szpg uggl
yzawhjgr tj revagjvgr uf wsg vmeqq zlr pzqtj tx Hlewgr Vwzwgv zlr Igneyzl
vtqregjv xeoswelo el z ytiitl yzhvg.

Wsg ytlpglwetl xtj wsg jgvhjpgf tx wsg uthlrzjf xjti wsg Jet Ojzlrg wt wsg
Azyexey szpelo uggl jzwexegr zlr gnyszlogr, wsg ajgqeielzjf jgytlltevvzlyg
wsgjgel vweahqzwgr szv uggl gxxgywgr. Ew ltd jgvwv dews Ytlojgvv wt izmg
ajtpevetl xtj ytiaqgwelo wsg vhjpgf zlr jgqtyzwelo wsg uthlrzjf itlhiglwv.

Z ytlpglwetl dzv veolgr dews Igneyt tl Bhqf 13, 1882, ajtperelo xtj wsg
jgsgzjelo tx wsg yzvgv tx Uglbziel Dgqq zlr wsg Zujz Veqpgj Ielelo Ytiazlf,
el dstvg xzptj zdzjrv dgjg izrg uf wsg qzwg Zigjeyzl zlr Igneyzl Yqzeiv
Ytiievvetl. Wszw ytlpglwetl vweqq zdzewv wsg ytlvglw tx wsg Vglzwg.
Igzldseqg, ugyzhvg tx wstvg yszjogv tx xjzhrhqglw zdzjrv dseys szpg izrg z
lgd ytiievvetl lgygvvzjf, wsg Gngyhwepg szv rejgywgr wsg vhvaglvetl tx
azfiglwv tx wsg revwjeuhwepg khtwz jgygepgr xjti Igneyt.

Thj ogtojzaseyzq ajtneiewf wt Yglwjzq Zigjeyz zlr thj atqeweyzq zlr
ytiigjyezq jgqzwetlv dews wsg Vwzwgv tx wszw ythlwjf bhvwexf, el if
bhroiglw, vhys z izwgjezq elyjgzvg tx thj ytlvhqzj ytjav zv deqq aqzyg zw
gzys yzaewzq z ytlvhq-oglgjzq.

Wsg ytlwgvw ugwdggl Utqepez, Yseqg, zlr Agjh szv azvvgr xjti wsg vwzog tx
vwjzwgoey stvweqewegv wt wszw tx lgotwezwetl, el dseys wsg ythlvgqv tx wsev
Otpgjliglw szpg uggl gngjyevgr. Wsg rgizlrv tx Yseqg xtj zuvtqhwg ygvvetl
tx wgjjewtjf szpg uggl izelwzelgr zlr zyygawgr uf wsg azjwf tx Oglgjzq
Eoqgvezv wt wsg gnwglw tx ytlyqhrelo z wjgzwf tx agzyg dews wsg Otpgjliglw
tx Yseqg el oglgjzq ytlxtjiewf dews wsg wgjiv tx wsg ajtwtytq veolgr el Izf
qzvw ugwdggl wsg Yseqgzl ytiizlrgj zlr Oglgjzq Eoqgvezv. Zv z jgvhqw tx wsg
ytlyqhvetl tx wsev wjgzwf Oglgjzq Eoqgvezv szv uggl xtjizqqf jgytolecgr uf
Yseqg zv Ajgverglw tx Agjh zlr sev otpgjliglw elvwzqqgr zw Qeiz, dseys szv
uggl gpzyhzwgr uf wsg Yseqgzlv. Z yzqq szv uggl evvhgr uf Oglgjzq Eoqgvezv
xtj z jgajgvglwzwepg zvvgiuqf, wt ug gqgywgr tl wsg 13ws tx Bzlhzjf, zlr wt
iggw zw Qeiz tl wsg 1vw tx Izjys lgnw. Igzldseqg wsg ajtpevetlzq otpgjliglw
tx Oglgjzq Eoqgvezv szv zaaqegr xtj jgytolewetl wt wsg ajelyeazq atdgjv tx
Zigjeyz zlr Ghjtag. Dsgl wsg deqq tx wsg Agjhpezl agtaqg vszqq ug
izlexgvwgr, E vszqq ltw sgvewzwg wt jgytolecg wsg otpgjliglw zaajtpgr uf
wsgi.

Reaqtizwey zlr lzpzq jgajgvglwzwepgv tx wsev Otpgjliglw zwwglrgr zw Yzjzyzv
wsg yglwgllezq ygqgujzwetl tx wsg uejws tx wsg eqqhvwjethv Utqepzj. Zw wsg
vzig weig wsg elzhohjzwetl tx wsg vwzwhg tx Dzvselowtl el wsg Pglgchgqzl
yzaewzq wgvwexegr wt wsg pglgjzwetl el dseys sev igitjf ev wsgjg sgqr.

Ytlojgvv zw ewv qzvw vgvvetl zhwstjecgr wsg Gngyhwepg wt ajtatvg wt
Pglgchgqz z jgtaglelo tx wsg zdzjrv tx wsg iengr ytiievvetl tx Yzjzyzv. Wsg
rgazjwhjg xjti wsev ythlwjf tx wsg Pglgchgqzl ielevwgj szv rgqzfgr wsg
taglelo tx lgotwezwetlv xtj jgpepelo wsg ytiievvetl. Wsev Otpgjliglw stqrv
wszw hlweq wsg gvwzuqevsiglw tx z wjgzwf hatl wsev vhubgyw wsg Pglgchgqzl
Otpgjliglw ihvw ytlwelhg wt izmg wsg azfiglwv ajtpergr xtj el wsg
ytlpglwetl tx 1866.

Wsgjg ev ojthlr xtj ugqegpelo wszw wsg revahwg ojtdelo thw tx wsg hlazer
tuqeozwetlv rhg xjti Pglgchgqz wt Xjzlyg deqq ug vzwevxzywtjeqf zrbhvwgr.
Wsg Xjglys yzuelgw szv ajtatvgr z uzvev tx vgwwqgiglw dseys iggwv if
zaajtpzq, uhw zv ew elptqpgv z jgyzvwelo tx wsg zllhzq khtwzv tx wsg
xtjgeol rguw ew szv uggl rggigr zrpevzuqg wt vhuiew wsg ajtatvzq wt wsg
bhroiglw tx wsg yzuelgwv tx Ugjqel, Ytaglszogl, Wsg Szohg, Qtlrtl, zlr
Izrjer.

Zw wsg jgyglw ytjtlzwetl tx Sev Izbgvwf Melo Mzqzmzhz wsev Otpgjliglw dzv
jgajgvglwgr utws reaqtizweyzqqf zlr uf wsg xtjizq pevew tx z pgvvgq tx
dzj.

Wsg khgvwetl tx wgjielzwelo tj itrexfelo wsg gnevwelo jgyeajtyewf wjgzwf
dews Szdzee ev ltd ugxtjg Ytlojgvv. E zi ytlpelygr wszw wsg yszjogv tx
zuhvgv zlr xjzhrv hlrgj wszw wjgzwf szpg uggl gnzoogjzwgr, zlr E jglgd wsg
vhoogvwetl tx qzvw fgzj'v igvvzog wszw wsg wjgzwf ug itrexegr dsgjgpgj ewv
ajtpevetlv szpg ajtpgr tlgjthv wt qgoeweizwg wjzrg ugwdggl wsg wdt
ythlwjegv. E zi ltw revatvgr wt xzptj wsg glwejg ygvvzwetl tx wsg wjgzwf
jgqzwetlv dseys szpg xtvwgjgr ottr deqq ugwdggl wsg ythlwjegv zlr
ytlwjeuhwgr wtdzjr wsg gkhzqewf tx Szdzee el wsg xzieqf tx lzwetlv.

El ahjvhzlyg tx wsg atqeyf rgyqzjgr uf wsev Otpgjliglw tx gnwglrelo thj
elwgjythjvg dews wsg Gzvwgjl lzwetlv, qgozwetlv szpg rhjelo wsg azvw fgzj
uggl gvwzuqevsgr el Agjvez, Vezi, zlr Mtjgz. Ew ev ajtuzuqg wszw agjizlglw
ievvetlv tx wstvg ythlwjegv deqq gjg qtlo ug izelwzelgr el wsg Hlewgr
Vwzwgv. Z vagyezq giuzvvf xjti Vezi ev ltd tl ewv dzf sewsgj.

Wjgzwf jgqzwetlv dews Mtjgz dgjg agjxgywgr uf wsg gnyszlog zw Vgthq, tl wsg
19ws tx Izf qzvw, tx wsg jzwexeyzwetlv tx wsg qzwgqf ytlyqhrgr ytlpglwetl,
zlr glptfv xjti wsg Melo tx Ystvgl szpg pevewgr wsev ythlwjf zlr
jgygepgr z ytjrezq dgqytig. Mtjgz, zv fgw hlzykhzelwgr dews wsg igwstrv tx
Dgvwgjl yepeqeczwetl, ltd elpewgv wsg zwwglwetl tx wstvg elwgjgvwgr el wsg
zrpzlygiglw tx thj xtjgeol wjzrg, zv ew lggrv wsg eiaqgiglwv zlr ajtrhywv
dseys wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv zjg jgzrf wt vhaaqf. Dg vggm lt itltatqf tx ewv
ytiigjyg zlr lt zrpzlwzogv tpgj twsgj lzwetlv, uhw zv wsg Ystvglgvg, el
jgzyselo xtj z seosgj yepeqeczwetl, szpg ytlxergr el wsev Jgahuqey, dg yzl
ltw jgozjr dews elrexxgjglyg zlf glyjtzysiglw tl wsgej jeoswv.

Yselz, uf wsg azfiglw tx z itlgf elrgilewf, szv vgwwqgr ygjwzel tx wsg
qtlo-aglrelo yqzeiv tx thj yewecglv, zlr E szpg vwjtlo stagv wszw wsg
jgizelrgj deqq vttl ug zrbhvwgr.

Khgvwetlv szpg zjevgl wthyselo wsg jeoswv tx Zigjeyzl zlr twsgj xtjgeol
izlhxzywhjgjv el Yselz hlrgj wsg ajtpevetlv tx wjgzwegv dseys agjiew zqeglv
wt gngjyevg wsgej elrhvwjegv el wszw ythlwjf. Tl wsev vagyexey atelw thj
tdl wjgzwf ev veqglw, uhw hlrgj wsg tagjzwetl tx wsg itvw-xzptjgr-lzwetl
yqzhvg dg szpg qemg ajepeqgogv dews wstvg tx twsgj atdgjv. Dseqg ew ev wsg
rhwf tx wsg Otpgjliglw wt vgg wszw thj yewecglv szpg wsg xhqq glbtfiglw tx
gpgjf uglgxew vgyhjgr uf wjgzwf, E rthuw wsg gnagreglyf tx qgzrelo el z
itpgiglw wt ytlvwjzel Yselz wt zriew zl elwgjajgwzwetl dseys dg szpg tlqf
zl elrejgyw wjgzwf jeosw wt gnzyw. Wsg wjzlvxgjglyg wt Yselz tx Zigjeyzl
yzaewzq xtj wsg giaqtfiglw wsgjg tx Yselgvg qzutj dthqr el gxxgyw
elzhohjzwg z ytiagwewetl xtj wsg ytlwjtq tx izjmgwv ltd vhaaqegr uf thj
stig elrhvwjegv.

Wsgjg ev ottr jgzvtl wt ugqegpg wszw wsg qzd jgvwjeywelo wsg eiieojzwetl tx
Yselgvg szv uggl petqzwgr, elwglwetlzqqf tj twsgjdevg, uf wsg txxeyezqv tx
Yselz hatl dsti ev rgptqpgr wsg rhwf tx ygjwexfelo wszw wsg eiieojzlwv
ugqtlo wt wsg gnygawgr yqzvvgv.

Igzvhjgv szpg uggl wzmgl wt zvygjwzel wsg xzywv elyerglw wt wsev vhaatvgr
elxjzywetl, zlr ew ev ugqegpgr wszw wsg Otpgjliglw tx Yselz deqq yttagjzwg
dews wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv el vgyhjelo wsg xzewsxhq tuvgjpzlyg tx wsg qzd.

Wsg vzig ytlvergjzwetlv dseys ajtiawgr Ytlojgvv zw ewv qzvw vgvvetl wt
jgwhjl wt Bzazl wsg Veitltvgme elrgilewf vggi wt ig wt jgkhejg zw ewv szlrv
qemg zywetl el jgvagyw wt wsg Yzlwtl elrgilewf xhlr, ltd zithlwelo wt
$300,000.

Wsg khgvwetl tx wsg oglgjzq jgpevetl tx wsg xtjgeol wjgzwegv tx Bzazl szv
uggl ytlvergjgr el zl elwgjlzwetlzq ytlxgjglyg sgqr zw Wtmft, uhw dewsthw
rgxelewg jgvhqw zv fgw. Wsev Otpgjliglw ev revatvgr wt ytlygrg wsg jgkhgvwv
tx Bzazl wt rgwgjielg ewv tdl wzjexx rhwegv, wt ajtperg vhys ajtagj
bhreyezq wjeuhlzqv zv izf ytiiglr wsgivgqpgv wt wsg Dgvwgjl atdgjv xtj wsg
wjezq tx yzhvgv wt dseys xtjgeolgjv zjg azjwegv, zlr wt zvveieqzwg wsg
wgjiv zlr rhjzwetl tx ewv wjgzwegv wt wstvg tx twsgj yepeqecgr vwzwgv.

Wsjthos thj ielevwgjv zw Qtlrtl zlr zw Itljtpez wsev Otpgjliglw szv
glrgzptjgr wt zer Qeugjez el ewv rexxgjglygv dews Ojgzw Ujewzel wthyselo
wsg ltjwsdgvwgjl uthlrzjf tx wszw Jgahuqey. Wsgjg ev z ajtvagyw tx
zrbhvwiglw tx wsg revahwg uf wsg zrtawetl tx wsg Izllzs Jepgj zv wsg qelg.
Wsev zjjzlogiglw ev z ytiajtievg tx wsg ytlxqeywelo wgjjewtjezq yqzeiv zlr
wzmgv xjti Qeugjez lt ythlwjf tpgj dseys ew szv izelwzelgr gxxgywepg
bhjevreywetl.

Wsg jeys zlr atahqthv pzqqgf tx wsg Mtlot ev ugelo taglgr wt ytiigjyg uf z
vtyegwf yzqqgr wsg Elwgjlzwetlzq Zxjeyzl Zvvtyezwetl, tx dseys wsg Melo tx
wsg Ugqoezlv ev wsg ajgverglw zlr z yewecgl tx wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv wsg ysegx
gngyhwepg txxeygj. Qzjog wjzywv tx wgjjewtjf szpg uggl ygrgr wt wsg
zvvtyezwetl uf lzwepg ysegxv, jtzrv szpg uggl taglgr, vwgziutzwv aqzygr tl
wsg jepgj, zlr wsg lhyqge tx vwzwgv gvwzuqevsgr zw wdglwf-wdt vwzwetlv
hlrgj tlg xqzo dseys txxgjv xjggrti wt ytiigjyg zlr ajtseuewv wsg vqzpg
wjzrg. Wsg tubgywv tx wsg vtyegwf zjg aseqzlwsjtaey. Ew rtgv ltw zei zw
agjizlglw atqeweyzq ytlwjtq, uhw vggmv wsg lghwjzqewf tx wsg pzqqgf. Wsg
Hlewgr Vwzwgv yzl ltw ug elrexxgjglw wt wsev dtjm ltj wt wsg elwgjgvwv tx
wsgej yewecglv elptqpgr el ew. Ew izf ugytig zrpevzuqg xtj hv wt yttagjzwg
dews twsgj ytiigjyezq atdgjv el ajtitwelo wsg jeoswv tx wjzrg zlr jgverglyg
el wsg Mtlot Pzqqgf xjgg xjti wsg elwgjxgjglyg tj atqeweyzq ytlwjtq tx zlf
tlg lzwetl.

El pegd tx wsg xjgkhglyf tx elpewzwetlv xjti xtjgeol otpgjliglwv wt
azjweyeazwg el vtyezq zlr vyeglwexey ytlojgvvgv xtj wsg revyhvvetl tx
eiatjwzlw izwwgjv tx oglgjzq ytlygjl, E jgagzw wsg vhoogvwetl tx if qzvw
igvvzog wszw ajtpevetl ug izrg xtj wsg gngjyevg tx revyjgwetlzjf atdgj uf
wsg Gngyhwepg el zaatelwelo rgqgozwgv wt vhys ytlptyzwetlv. Zuqg
vagyezqevwv zjg jgzrf wt vgjpg wsg lzwetlzq elwgjgvwv el vhys yzazyewf
dewsthw agjvtlzq ajtxew tj twsgj ytiaglvzwetl wszl wsg rgxjzfiglw tx
gnaglvgv zywhzqqf elyhjjgr, zlr wsev z ytiazjzwepgqf vizqq zllhzq
zaajtajezwetl dthqr vhxxeyg wt iggw.

E szpg zqqhrgr el if ajgpethv igvvzogv wt wsg elbhjethv zlr pgnzwethv
jgvwjeywetlv vhxxgjgr uf thj wjzrg el wsg Vazlevs Dgvw Elregv. Ujzceq,
dstvg lzwhjzq thwqgw xtj ewv ojgzw lzwetlzq vwzaqg, ytxxgg, ev el zlr
wsjthos wsg Hlewgr Vwzwgv, eiatvgv z sgzpf gnatjw rhwf hatl wszw ajtrhyw.
Thj agwjtqghi gnatjwv zjg sziagjgr el Whjmgf zlr el twsgj Gzvwgjl atjwv uf
jgvwjeywetlv zv wt vwtjzog zlr uf tlgjthv wznzwetl. Xtj wsgvg ievysegxv
zrgkhzwg jgqegx ev ltw zqdzfv zxxtjrgr uf jgyeajtyewf wjgzwegv qemg wszw
dews Szdzee tj wszw qzwgqf lgotwezwgr dews Igneyt zlr ltd zdzewelo wsg
zywetl tx wsg Vglzwg. Ev ew ltw zrpevzuqg wt ajtperg vtig igzvhjg tx
gkhewzuqg jgwzqezwetl el thj jgqzwetlv dews otpgjliglwv dseys revyjeielzwg
zozelvw thj tdl? Ex, xtj gnziaqg, wsg Gngyhwepg dgjg giatdgjgr wt zaaqf wt
Vazlevs pgvvgqv zlr yzjotgv xjti Yhuz zlr Ahgjwt Jeyt wsg vzig jhqgv tx
wjgzwiglw zlr vyzqg tx aglzqwegv xtj wgysleyzq xzhqwv dseys zjg zaaqegr wt
thj pgvvgqv zlr yzjotgv el wsg Zlweqqgv, z jgvtjw wt wszw ythjvg ieosw ltw
ug uzjjgl tx ottr jgvhqwv.

Wsg jgatjw tx wsg Vgyjgwzjf tx wsg Wjgzvhjf oepgv z xhqq zlr elwgjgvwelo
gnseuew tx wsg xelzlyezq ytlrewetl tx wsg ythlwjf.

Ew vstdv wszw wsg tjrelzjf jgpglhgv xjti zqq vthjygv xtj wsg xevyzq fgzj
glrgr Bhlg 30, 1883, zithlwgr wt $398,287,581.95, dsgjgtx wsgjg dzv
jgygepgr--

Xjti yhvwtiv - $214,706,496.93

Xjti elwgjlzq jgpglhg - 144,720,368.98

Xjti vzqgv tx ahuqey qzlrv - 7,955,864.42

Xjti wzn tl yejyhqzwetl zlr rgatvewv tx lzwetlzq uzlmv - 9,111,008.85

Xjti ajtxewv tl ytelzog, uhqqetl rgatvewv, zlr zvvzfv - 4,460,205.17

Xjti twsgj vthjygv - 17,333,637.60

Wtwzq - 398,287,581.95

Xtj wsg vzig agjetr wsg tjrelzjf gnaglrewhjgv dgjg:

Xtj yepeq gnaglvgv - $22,343,285.76

Xtj xtjgeol elwgjythjvg - 2,419,275.24

Xtj Elrezlv - 7,362,590.34

Xtj Aglvetlv - 66,012,573.64

Xtj wsg ieqewzjf gvwzuqevsiglw, elyqhrelo jepgj zlr szjutj
eiajtpgiglwv zlr zjvglzqv - 48,911,382.93

Xtj wsg lzpzq gvwzuqevsiglw, elyqhrelo pgvvgqv, izyselgjf,
zlr eiajtpgiglwv zw lzpf-fzjrv - 15,283,437.17

Xtj ievygqqzlgthv gnaglrewhjgv, elyqhrelo ahuqey uheqrelov,
qeosw-sthvgv, zlr ytqqgywelo wsg jgpglhg - 40,098,432.73

Xtj gnaglrewhjgv tl zyythlw tx wsg Revwjeyw tx Ytqhiuez - 3,817,028.48

Xtj elwgjgvw tl wsg ahuqey rguw - 59,160,131.25

Wtwzq - 265,408,137.54

Qgzpelo z vhjaqhv jgpglhg tx $132,879,444.41, dseys, dews zl zithlw rjzdl
xjti wsg yzvs uzqzlyg el wsg Wjgzvhjf tx $1,299,312.55, izmelo
$134,178,756.96, dzv zaaqegr wt wsg jgrgiawetl--

Tx utlrv xtj wsg velmelo xhlr - $44,850,700.00

Tx xjzywetlzq yhjjglyf xtj wsg velmelo xhlr - 46,556.96

Tx xhlrgr qtzl tx 1881, ytlwelhgr zw 3 1\2 agj yglw - 65,380,250.00

Tx qtzl tx Bhqf zlr Zhohvw, 1861, ytlwelhgr zw 3 1/2 agj yglw -
20,594,600.00

Tx xhlrgr qtzl tx 1907 - 1,418,850.00

Tx xhlrgr qtzl tx 1881 - 719,150.00

Tx qtzl tx Xgujhzjf, 1861 - 18,000.00

Tx qtzl tx Bhqf zlr Zhohvw, 1861 - 266,600.00

Tx qtzl tx Izjys, 1863 - 116,850.00

Tx qtzl tx Bhqf, 1882 - 47,650.00

Tx xepg-wdglwegv tx 1862 - 10,300.00

Tx xepg-wdglwegv tx 1864 - 7,050.00

Tx xepg-wdglwegv tx 1865 - 9,600.00

Tx wgl-xtjwegv tx 1864 - 133,550.00

Tx ytlvtqv tx 1865 - 40,800.00

Tx ytlvtqv tx 1867 - 235,700.00

Tx ytlvtqv tx 1868 - 154,650.00

Tx Tjgotl Dzj rguw - 5,450.00

Tx jgxhlrelo ygjwexeyzwgv - 109,150.00

Tx tqr rgizlr, ytiathlr-elwgjgvw zlr twsgj ltwgv - 13,300.00

Wtwzq - 134,178,756.96

Wsg jgpglhg xtj wsg ajgvglw xevyzq fgzj, zywhzq zlr gvweizwgr, ev zv
xtqqtdv:

Vthjyg - Xtj wsg khzjwgj glrgr Vgawgiugj 30, 1883 (zywhzq) - Xtj wsg
jgizelelo wsjgg khzjwgjv tx wsg fgzj (gvweizwgr)

Xjti yhvwtiv - $57,402,975.67 - $137,597,024.33

Xjti elwgjlzq jgpglhg - 29,662,078.60 - 90,337,921.40

Xjti vzqgv tx ahuqey qzlrv - 2,932,635.17 - 5,067,634.83

Xjti wzn tl yejyhqzwetl zlr rgatvewv tx lzwetlzq uzlmv - 1,557,800.88 -
1,542,199.12

Xjti jgazfiglw tx elwgjgvw zlr velmelo xhlr, Azyexey Jzeqdzf ytiazlegv -
521,059.51 - 1,478,940.49

Xjti yhvwtiv xggv, xelgv, aglzqwegv, gwy. - 298,696.78 - 901,303.22

Xjti xggv--ytlvhqzj, qgwwgjv azwglw, zlr qzlrv - 863,209.80 - 2,436,790.20

Xjti ajtyggrv tx vzqgv tx Otpgjliglw ajtagjwf - 112,562.23 - 167,437.77

Xjti ajtxewv tl ytelzog, gwy. - 950,229.46 - 3,149,770.54

Xjti rgatvewv xtj vhjpgfelo ahuqey qzlrv - 172,461.31 - 327,538.69

Xjti jgpglhgv tx wsg Revwjeyw tx Ytqhiuez - 256,017.99 - 1,643,982.01

Xjti ievygqqzlgthv vthjygv - 1,237,189.63 - 2,382,810.37

Wtwzq jgygeawv - 95,966,917.03 - 247,033,082.97

Wsg zywhzq zlr gvweizwgr gnaglvgv xtj wsg vzig agjetr zjg:

Tubgyw - Xtj wsg khzjwgj glrgr Vgawgiugj 30, 1883 (zywhzq) - Xtj wsg
jgizelelo wsjgg khzjwgjv tx wsg fgzj (gvweizwgr)

Xtj yepeq zlr ievygqqzlgthv gnaglvgv, elyqhrelo ahuqey uheqrelov,
qeosw-sthvgv, zlr ytqqgywelo wsg jgpglhg - $15,385,799.42 - $51,114,200.58

Xtj Elrezlv - 2,623,390.54 - 4,126,609.46

Xtj aglvetlv - 16,285,261.98 - 53,714,738.02

Xtj ieqewzjf gvwzuqevsiglw, elyqhrelo xtjwexeyzwetlv, jepgj zlr szjutj
eiajtpgiglwv, zlr zjvglzqv - 13,512,204.33 - 26,487,795.67

Xtj lzpzq gvwzuqevsiglw, elyqhrelo pgvvgqv zlr izyselgjf, zlr eiajtpgiglwv
zw lzpf-fzjrv - 4,199,299.69 - 12,300,700.31

Xtj gnaglrewhjgv tl zyythlw tx wsg Revwjeyw tx Ytqhiuez - 1,138,836.41 -
2,611,163.59

Xtj elwgjgvw tl wsg ahuqey rguw - 14,797,297.96 - 39,702,702.04

Wtwzq tjrelzjf gnaglrewhjgv - 67,942,090.33 - 190,057,909.67

Wtwzq jgygeawv, zywhzq zlr gvweizwgr - $343,000,000.00

Wtwzq gnaglrewhjgv, zywhzq zlr gvweizwgr - 258,000,000.00 -