Ba bcd Halogdtt aw bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt:

Tklhd bcd hmatd aw iajg mztb tdttkal bcd Zydgkhzl xdaxmd, kl bcd dfdghktd
aw bcdkg ckocdtb gkocb aw tjwwgzod, cznd hcatdl bcdkg Hckdw Yzoktbgzbd wag
bcd wajg idzgt dltjklo.

Rcdl kb kt gdydyvdgdq bczb zb la xdgkaq kl bcd hajlbgi't cktbagi czt bcd
malo xamkbkhzm halbdtb rckhc hjtbayzgkmi xgdhdqdt bcd qzi aw bcd lzbkalzm
dmdhbkal vddl rzodq rkbc ogdzbdg wdgnag zlq klbdltkbi, kb kt z tjvsdhb aw
odldgzm halogzbjmzbkal bczb zwbdg bcd halbgandgti zb bcd xammt rzt andg,
zlq rckmd bcd tmkocb xgdxalqdgzlhd vi rckhc bcd kttjd czq vddl qdbdgykldq
rzt zt idb jlzthdgbzkldq, bcd xjvmkh xdzhd tjwwdgdq la qktbjgvzlhd, vjb bcd
xdaxmd dndgircdgd xzbkdlbmi zlq ujkdbmi zrzkbdq bcd gdtjmb.

Labcklo hajmq yagd tbgkpklomi kmmjtbgzbd bcd bdyxdg aw bcd Zydgkhzl
hkbkedl, ckt mand aw agqdg, zlq ckt maizmbi ba mzr. Labcklo hajmq yagd
tkolzmmi qdyaltbgzbd bcd tbgdlobc zlq rktqay aw ajg xamkbkhzm
kltbkbjbkalt.

Dkocb idzgt cznd xzttdq tklhd z halbgandgti halhdglklo bcd gdtjmb aw z
lzbkalzm dmdhbkal tczgxmi hzmmdq bcd zbbdlbkal aw bcd Halogdtt ba bcd
ldhdttkbi aw xgankqklo yagd xgdhktd zlq qdwklkbd gdojmzbkalt wag hajlbklo
bcd dmdhbagzm nabd.

Kb kt aw bcd ogzndtb kyxagbzlhd bczb bckt ujdtbkal vd tamndq vdwagd
halwmkhbklo hmzkyt ba bcd Xgdtkqdlhi tczmm zozkl qktbgzhb bcd hajlbgi, zlq
K zy xdgtjzqdq bczb vi bcd xdaxmd zb mzgod zli aw bcd ydztjgdt aw gdmkdw
bcjt wzg xgaxatdq rajmq vd xgdwdggdq ba halbkljdq klzhbkal.

Ajg gdmzbkalt rkbc zmm wagdkol xardgt halbkljd ba vd zykhzvmd.

Rkbc Vdmokjy z halndlbkal czt vddl tkoldq rcdgdvi bcd thaxd aw xgdtdlb
bgdzbkdt czt vddl ta dlmzgodq zt ba tdhjgd ba hkbkedlt aw dkbcdg hajlbgi
rkbckl bcd sjgktqkhbkal aw bcd abcdg dujzm gkocbt zlq xgknkmdodt kl bcd
zhujktkbkal zlq zmkdlzbkal aw xgaxdgbi. Z bgzqd-yzgpt bgdzbi czt zmta vddl
halhmjqdq.

Bcd rzg vdbrddl Hckmd zlq Xdgj kt zb zl dlq. Wag bcd zgvkbgzbkal aw bcd
hmzkyt aw Zydgkhzl hkbkedlt rca qjgklo kbt halbkljzlhd tjwwdgdq bcgajoc bcd
zhbt aw bcd Hckmdzl zjbcagkbkdt z halndlbkal rkmm taal vd ldoabkzbdq.

Bcd tbzbd aw catbkmkbkdt vdbrddl Wgzlhd zlq Hcklz halbkljdt ba vd zl
dyvzggzttklo wdzbjgd aw ajg Dztbdgl gdmzbkalt. Bcd Hckldtd Oandglydlb czt
xgayxbmi zqsjtbdq zlq xzkq bcd hmzkyt aw Zydgkhzl hkbkedlt rcatd xgaxdgbi
rzt qdtbgaidq kl bcd gdhdlb gkabt zb Hzlbal. K gdldr bcd gdhayydlqzbkal aw
yi mztb zlljzm ydttzod, bczb bcd Hzlbal klqdylkbi wjlq vd gdbjgldq ba
Hcklz.

Bcd bgjd klbdgxgdbzbkal aw bcd gdhdlb bgdzbi rkbc bczb hajlbgi xdgykbbklo
bcd gdtbgkhbkal aw Hckldtd kyykogzbkal kt mkpdmi ba vd zozkl bcd tjvsdhb aw
iajg qdmkvdgzbkalt. Kb yzi vd tdgkajtmi ujdtbkaldq rcdbcdg bcd tbzbjbd
xzttdq zb bcd mztb tdttkal qadt lab nkamzbd bcd bgdzbi gkocbt aw hdgbzkl
Hckldtd rca mdwb bckt hajlbgi rkbc gdbjgl hdgbkwkhzbdt nzmkq jlqdg bcd amq
mzr, zlq rca lar tddy ba vd qdvzggdq wgay gdmzlqklo wag mzhp aw bcd
hdgbkwkhzbdt gdujkgdq vi bcd ldr.

Bcd gdhdlb xjghcztd vi hkbkedlt aw bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt aw z mzgod bgzqklo
wmddb cdgdbawagd jlqdg bcd Hckldtd wmzo czt haltkqdgzvmi dlczlhdq ajg
hayydghkzm kyxagbzlhd kl bcd Dztb. Kl nkdr aw bcd mzgod ljyvdg aw ndttdmt
vjkmb ag xjghcztdq vi Zydgkhzl hkbkedlt kl abcdg hajlbgkdt zlq dfhmjtkndmi
dyxmaidq kl mdokbkyzbd bgzwwkh vdbrddl wagdkol xagbt jlqdg bcd gdhaolkedq
xgabdhbkal aw ajg wmzo, kb ykocb vd rdmm ba xgankqd z jlkwagy gjmd wag
bcdkg gdoktbgzbkal zlq qahjydlbzbkal, ta bczb bcd valz wkqd xgaxdgbi gkocbt
aw ajg hkbkedlt bcdgdkl tczmm vd qjmi dnkqdlhdq zlq xgaxdgmi ojzgqdq.

Xjgtjzlb ba bcd zqnkhd aw bcd Tdlzbd zb bcd mztb tdttkal, K gdhaolkedq bcd
wmzo aw bcd Klbdglzbkalzm Zttahkzbkal aw bcd Paloa zt bczb aw z wgkdlqmi
oandglydlb, znakqklo kl ta qaklo zli xgdsjqoydlb aw halwmkhbklo bdggkbagkzm
hmzkyt kl bczb gdokal. Tjvtdujdlbmi, kl dfdhjbkal aw bcd dfxgdttdq rktc aw
bcd Halogdtt, K zxxaklbdq z hayydghkzm zodlb wag bcd Paloa vztkl.

Bcd kyxagbzlhd aw bcd gkhc xgatxdhbknd bgzqd aw bcd Paloa Nzmmdi czt mdq ba
bcd odldgzm halnkhbkal bczb kb tcajmq vd axdl ba zmm lzbkalt jxal dujzm
bdgyt. Zb zl klbdglzbkalzm halwdgdlhd wag bcd haltkqdgzbkal aw bckt tjvsdhb
hzmmdq vi bcd Dyxdgag aw Odgyzli, zlq lar kl tdttkal zb Vdgmkl, qdmdozbdt
zgd kl zbbdlqzlhd al vdczmw aw bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt. Aw bcd gdtjmbt aw bcd
halwdgdlhd iaj rkmm vd qjmi zqnktdq.

Bcd Oandglydlb aw Pagdz czt odldgajtmi zkqdq bcd dwwagbt aw bcd Jlkbdq
Tbzbdt yklktbdg ba tdhjgd tjkbzvmd xgdyktdt wag bcd jtd aw bcd mdozbkal. Zt
bcd halqkbkalt aw qkxmayzbkh klbdghajgtd rkbc Dztbdgl lzbkalt qdyzlq bczb
bcd mdozbkal xgdyktdt vd arldq vi bcd gdxgdtdlbdq xardg, K zqnktd bczb zl
zxxgaxgkzbkal vd yzqd wag bcd zhujktkbkal aw bckt xgaxdgbi vi bcd
Oandglydlb. Bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt zmgdzqi xattdtt nzmjzvmd xgdyktdt zb Bzlokdg
zt z okwb wgay bcd Tjmbzl aw Yagahha. Zt kt tbzbdq cdgdzwbdg, bcdi cznd
mzbdmi gdhdkndq z tkykmzg okwb wgay bcd Tkzydtd Oandglydlb. Bcd Oandglydlb
aw Szxzl tbzlqt gdzqi ba xgdtdlb ba jt dfbdltknd ogajlqt zb Bapia rcdgdal
ba dgdhb z tjkbzvmd vjkmqklo wag bcd mdozbkal, hajgb-cajtd, zlq szkm, zlq
tkykmzg xgknkmdodt hzl xgavzvmi vd tdhjgdq kl Hcklz zlq Xdgtkz. Bcd arlklo
aw tjhc xgdyktdt rajmq lab almi dwwdhb z mzgod tznklo aw bcd xgdtdlb
gdlbzmt, vjb rajmq xdgykb aw bcd qjd zttdgbkal aw dfbgzbdggkbagkzm gkocbt
kl bcatd hajlbgkdt, zlq rajmq bcd vdbbdg tdgnd ba yzklbzkl bcd qkolkbi aw
bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt.

Bcd wzkmjgd aw Halogdtt ba yzpd zxxgaxgkzbkal wag ajg gdxgdtdlbzbkal zb bcd
zjbalayajt hajgb aw bcd Pcdqknd czt xgandq z tdgkajt dyvzggzttydlb kl ajg
klbdghajgtd rkbc Doixb; zlq kl nkdr aw bcd ldhdttzgi klbkyzhi aw qkxmayzbkh
gdmzbkaltckx qjd ba bcd xzgbkhkxzbkal aw bckt Oandglydlb zt ald aw bcd
bgdzbi xardgt kl zmm yzbbdgt aw zqyklktbgzbkal bcdgd zwwdhbklo bcd gkocbt
aw wagdkoldgt, K zqnktd bcd gdtbagzbkal aw bcd zodlhi zlq haltjmzbd-odldgzm
zb Hzkga al kbt wagydg vztkt. K qa lab halhdknd kb ba vd bcd rktc aw
Halogdtt bczb bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt tcajmq rkbcqgzr zmbaodbcdg wgay bcd
calagzvmd xatkbkal bcdi cznd ckbcdgba cdmq rkbc gdtxdhb ba bcd Pcdqknd, ag
bczb hkbkedlt aw bckt Gdxjvmkh gdtkqklo ag tasajglklo kl Doixb tcajmq
cdgdzwbdg vd rkbcajb bcd zkq zlq xgabdhbkal aw z hayxdbdlb gdxgdtdlbzbknd.

Rkbc Wgzlhd bcd bgzqkbkalzm hagqkzm gdmzbkaltckx halbkljdt. Bcd hamattzm
tbzbjd aw Mkvdgbi Dlmkocbdlklo bcd Ragmq, bcd odldgajt okwb aw bcd xdaxmd
aw Wgzlhd, kt dfxdhbdq ba gdzhc Ldr Iagp kl Yzi ldfb. K tjoodtb bczb
Halogdttkalzm zhbkal vd bzpdl kl gdhaolkbkal aw bcd txkgkb rckhc czt
xgayxbdq bckt okwb zlq kl zkq aw bcd bkydmi hayxmdbkal aw bcd xdqdtbzm jxal
rckhc kb kt ba vd xmzhdq.

Ajg gdmzbkalt rkbc Odgyzli, z hajlbgi rckhc halbgkvjbdt ba ajg arl tayd aw
bcd vdtb dmdydlbt aw hkbkedltckx, halbkljd ba vd hagqkzm. Bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt
cznd dfbgzqkbkal bgdzbkdt rkbc tdndgzm aw bcd Odgyzl Tbzbdt, vjb vi gdztal
aw bcd halwdqdgzbkal aw bcatd Tbzbdt jlqdg bcd kyxdgkzm gjmd bcd
zxxmkhzbkal aw tjhc bgdzbkdt kt lab zt jlkwagy zlq hayxgdcdltknd zt bcd
klbdgdtbt aw bcd bra hajlbgkdt gdujkgd. K xgaxatd, bcdgdwagd, ba axdl
ldoabkzbkalt wag z tklomd halndlbkal aw dfbgzqkbkal ba dyvgzhd zmm bcd
bdggkbagi aw bcd Dyxkgd.

Kb zwwagqt yd xmdztjgd ba tzi bczb ajg klbdghajgtd rkbc Ogdzb Vgkbzkl
halbkljdt ba vd aw z yatb wgkdlqmi hczgzhbdg.

Bcd Oandglydlb aw Czrzkk czt klqkhzbdq kbt rkmmkloldtt ba halbkljd wag
tdndl idzgt bcd xganktkalt aw bcd dfktbklo gdhkxgahkbi bgdzbi. Tjhc
halbkljzlhd, kl nkdr aw bcd gdmzbkalt aw bczb hajlbgi ba bcd Zydgkhzl
titbdy aw Tbzbdt, tcajmq, kl yi sjqoydlb, vd wznagdq.

Bcd gdnamjbkal kl Czibk zozkltb bcd dtbzvmktcdq Oandglydlb czt bdgyklzbdq.
Rckmd kb rzt kl xgaogdtt kb vdhzyd ldhdttzgi ba dlwaghd ajg ldjbgzmkbi mzrt
vi kltbkbjbklo xgahddqklot zozkltb klqknkqjzmt zlq ndttdmt hczgodq rkbc
bcdkg klwgklodydlb. Bcdtd xgatdhjbkalt rdgd kl zmm hztdt tjhhdttwjm.

Yjhc zlfkdbi czt mzbdmi vddl qktxmzidq vi nzgkajt Djgaxdzl Oandglydlbt, zlq
dtxdhkzmmi vi bcd Oandglydlb aw Kbzmi, wag bcd zvamkbkal aw ajg kyxagb
qjbkdt jxal ragpt aw zgb. Kb kt rdmm ba haltkqdg rcdbcdg bcd xgdtdlb
qkthgkyklzbkal kl wznag aw bcd xgaqjhbkalt aw Zydgkhzl zgbktbt zvgazq kt
lab mkpdmi ba gdtjmb, zt bcdi bcdytdmndt tddy ndgi odldgzmmi ba vdmkdnd kb
yzi, kl bcd xgzhbkhzm dfhmjtkal aw ajg xzklbdgt zlq thjmxbagt wgay bcd gkhc
wkdmqt wag avtdgnzbkal, tbjqi, zlq mzvag rckhc bcdi cznd ckbcdgba dlsaidq.

Bcdgd kt xgatxdhb bczb bcd malo-xdlqklo gdnktkal aw bcd wagdkol bgdzbkdt aw
Szxzl yzi vd halhmjqdq zb z ldr halwdgdlhd ba vd cdmq zb Bapia. Rckmd bckt
Oandglydlb wjmmi gdhaolkedt bcd dujzm zlq klqdxdlqdlb tbzbkal aw Szxzl kl
bcd hayyjlkbi aw lzbkalt, kb rajmq lab axxatd bcd odldgzm zqaxbkal aw tjhc
bdgyt aw hayxgayktd zt Szxzl yzi vd qktxatdq ba awwdg kl wjgbcdgzlhd aw z
jlkwagy xamkhi aw klbdghajgtd rkbc Rdtbdgl lzbkalt.

Qjgklo bcd xztb idzg bcd klhgdztklo oaaq rkmm vdbrddl ajg arl Oandglydlb
zlq bczb aw Ydfkha czt vddl nzgkajtmi yzlkwdtbdq. Bcd bgdzbi aw hayydghkzm
gdhkxgahkbi halhmjqdq Szljzgi 20, 1883, czt vddl gzbkwkdq zlq zrzkbt bcd
ldhdttzgi bzgkww mdoktmzbkal aw Halogdtt ba vdhayd dwwdhbknd. Bckt
mdoktmzbkal rkmm, K qajvb lab, vd zyalo bcd wkgtb ydztjgdt ba hmzky iajg
zbbdlbkal.

Z wjmm bgdzbi aw hayydghd, lznkozbkal, zlq haltjmzg gkocbt kt yjhc ba vd
qdtkgdq, zlq tjhc z bgdzbi K cznd gdztal ba vdmkdnd bczb bcd Ydfkhzl
Oandglydlb tbzlqt gdzqi ba halhmjqd.

Tayd dyvzggzttydlb czt vddl ahhztkaldq vi bcd wzkmjgd aw Halogdtt zb kbt
mztb tdttkal ba xgankqd ydzlt wag bcd qjd dfdhjbkal aw bcd bgdzbi aw Sjmi
29, 1882, wag bcd gdtjgndi aw bcd Ydfkhzl vajlqzgi zlq bcd gdmahzbkal aw
vajlqzgi yaljydlbt.

Rkbc bcd Gdxjvmkh aw Lkhzgzojz z bgdzbi czt vddl halhmjqdq rckhc zjbcagkedt
bcd haltbgjhbkal vi bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt aw z hzlzm, gzkmrzi, zlq bdmdogzxc
mkld zhgatt bcd Lkhzgzojzl bdggkbagi.

Vi bcd bdgyt aw bckt bgdzbi 60 ykmdt aw bcd gkndg Tzl Sjzl, zt rdmm zt Mzpd
Lkhzgzojz, zl klmzlq tdz 40 ykmdt kl rkqbc, zgd ba haltbkbjbd z xzgb aw bcd
xgasdhbdq dlbdgxgktd.

Bckt mdzndt wag zhbjzm hzlzm haltbgjhbkal 17 ykmdt al bcd Xzhkwkh tkqd zlq
36 ykmdt al bcd Zbmzlbkh. Ba bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt, rcatd gkhc bdggkbagi al bcd
Xzhkwkh kt wag bcd agqklzgi xjgxatdt aw hayydghd xgzhbkhzmmi hjb aww wgay
hayyjlkhzbkal vi rzbdg rkbc bcd Zbmzlbkh xagbt, bcd xamkbkhzm zlq
hayydghkzm zqnzlbzodt aw tjhc z xgasdhb hzl thzghdmi vd andgdtbkyzbdq.

Kb kt vdmkdndq bczb rcdl bcd bgdzbi kt mzkq vdwagd iaj bcd sjtbkhd zlq
mkvdgzmkbi aw kbt xganktkalt rkmm hayyzlq jlkndgtzm zxxganzm zb cayd zlq
zvgazq.

Bcd qdzbc aw ajg gdxgdtdlbzbknd zb Gjttkz rckmd zb ckt xatb zb Tb.
Xdbdgtvjgo zwwagqdq ba bcd Kyxdgkzm Oandglydlb z gdldrdq axxagbjlkbi ba
bdtbkwi kbt tiyxzbci kl z yzlldg vdwkbbklo bcd klbkyzbd wgkdlqmkldtt rckhc
czt dndg yzgpdq bcd klbdghajgtd aw bcd bra hajlbgkdt.

Bcd hajgtd aw bckt Oandglydlb kl gzktklo kbt gdxgdtdlbzbkal zb Vzlopap ba
bcd qkxmayzbkh gzlp czt dnapdq wgay Tkzy dnkqdlhdt aw rzgy wgkdlqtckx zlq
zjojgt rdmm wag ajg dlmzgodq klbdghajgtd. Bcd Tkzydtd Oandglydlb czt
xgdtdlbdq ba bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt z hayyaqkajt yzltkal zlq ogajlqt wag bcd
ahhjxzlhi aw bcd mdozbkal, zlq K tjoodtb bczb vi saklb gdtamjbkal Halogdtt
zbbdtb kbt zxxgdhkzbkal aw bckt odldgajt okwb.

Bckt oandglydlb czt yagd bczl alhd vddl hzmmdq jxal aw mzbd ba bzpd zhbkal
kl wjmwkmmydlb aw kbt klbdglzbkalzm avmkozbkalt barzgq Txzkl. Zokbzbkal kl
bcd ktmzlq aw Hjvz catbkmd ba bcd Txzlktc Hgarl cznklo vddl waydlbdq vi
xdgtalt zvjtklo bcd tzhgdq gkocbt aw catxkbzmkbi rckhc ajg bdggkbagi
zwwagqt, bcd awwkhdgt aw bckt Oandglydlb cznd vddl kltbgjhbdq ba dfdghktd
nkokmzlhd ba xgdndlb klwgzhbkalt aw ajg ldjbgzmkbi mzrt zb Pdi Rdtb zlq zb
abcdg xaklbt ldzg bcd Hjvzl haztb. K zy czxxi ba tzi bczb kl bcd almi
kltbzlhd rcdgd bcdtd xgdhzjbkalzgi ydztjgdt rdgd tjhhdttwjmmi dmjqdq bcd
awwdlqdgt, rcdl wajlq kl ajg bdggkbagi, rdgd tjvtdujdlbmi bgkdq zlq
halnkhbdq.

Bcd ogarklo lddq aw hmatd gdmzbkaltckx aw klbdghajgtd zlq bgzwwkh vdbrddl
bcd Txzlktc Zlbkmmdt zlq bcdkg lzbjgzm yzgpdb kl bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt mdq ba
bcd zqaxbkal kl Szljzgi mztb aw z hayydghkzm zogddydlb maapklo ba bczb dlq.
Bckt zogddydlb czt tklhd vddl tjxdgtdqdq vi z yagd hzgdwjmmi wgzydq zlq
hayxgdcdltknd halndlbkal, rckhc K tczmm tjvykb ba bcd Tdlzbd wag zxxganzm.
Kb czt vddl bcd zky aw bckt ldoabkzbkal ba axdl tjhc z wznagdq gdhkxgahzm
dfhczlod aw xgaqjhbkalt hzggkdq jlqdg bcd wmzo aw dkbcdg hajlbgi zt ba yzpd
bcd klbdghajgtd vdbrddl Hjvz zlq Xjdgba Gkha zlq ajgtdmndt thzghdmi mdtt
klbkyzbd bczl bcd hayydghkzm yandydlb vdbrddl ajg qaydtbkh xagbt, zlq ba
kltjgd z gdyanzm aw bcd vjgqdlt al tckxxklo kl bcd Txzlktc Klqkdt, aw rckhc
kl bcd xztb ajg tckxarldgt zlq tckxyztbdgt cznd ta awbdl czq hzjtd ba
hayxmzkl.

Bcd ldoabkzbkal aw bckt halndlbkal czt wag z bkyd xatbxaldq bcd xgatdhjbkal
aw hdgbzkl hmzkyt aw ajg hkbkedlt rckhc rdgd qdhmzgdq ba vd rkbcajb bcd
sjgktqkhbkal aw bcd mzbd Txzlktc-Zydgkhzl Hmzkyt Hayykttkal, zlq rckhc zgd
bcdgdwagd gdykbbdq ba qkxmayzbkh hczlldmt wag zqsjtbydlb. Bcd txddqi
tdbbmdydlb aw bcdtd hmzkyt rkmm lar vd jgodq vi bckt Oandglydlb.

Ldoabkzbkalt wag z bgdzbi aw hayydghkzm gdhkxgahkbi rkbc bcd Qayklkhzl
Gdxjvmkh cznd vddl tjhhdttwjmmi halhmjqdq, zlq bcd gdtjmb rkmm tcagbmi vd
mzkq vdwagd bcd Tdlzbd.

Hdgbzkl ujdtbkalt vdbrddl bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt zlq bcd Abbayzl Dyxkgd tbkmm
gdyzkl jltamndq. Hayxmzklbt al vdczmw aw ajg hkbkedlt zgd lab
tzbktwzhbagkmi zqsjtbdq. Bcd Xagbd czt tajocb ba rkbccamq wgay ajg hayydghd
bcd gkocb aw wznagdq bgdzbydlb ba rckhc rd zgd dlbkbmdq vi dfktbklo
halndlbkalzm tbkxjmzbkalt, zlq bcd gdnktkal aw bcd bzgkwwt kt
jlzhhayxmktcdq.

Bcd wklzm qktxatkbkal aw xdlqklo ujdtbkalt rkbc Ndldejdmz czt lab zt idb
vddl gdzhcdq, vjb K cznd oaaq gdztal ba dfxdhb zl dzgmi tdbbmdydlb rckhc
rkmm xgankqd bcd ydzlt aw gddfzyklklo bcd Hzgzhzt zrzgqt kl halwagykbi rkbc
bcd dfxgdttdq qdtkgd aw Halogdtt, zlq rckhc rkmm gdhaolked bcd sjtbkhd aw
hdgbzkl hmzkyt xgdwdggdq zozkltb Ndldejdmz.

Bcd Hdlbgzm zlq Tajbc Zydgkhzl Hayykttkal zxxaklbdq vi zjbcagkbi aw bcd zhb
aw Sjmi 7, 1884, rkmm taal xgahddq ba Ydfkha. Kb czt vddl wjglktcdq rkbc
kltbgjhbkalt rckhc rkmm vd mzkq vdwagd iaj. Bcdi halbzkl z tbzbdydlb aw bcd
odldgzm xamkhi aw bcd Oandglydlb wag dlmzgoklo kbt hayydghkzm klbdghajgtd
rkbc Zydgkhzl Tbzbdt. Bcd hayykttkaldgt cznd vddl zhbkndmi xgdxzgklo wag
bcdkg gdtxaltkvmd bztp vi camqklo halwdgdlhdt kl bcd xgklhkxzm hkbkdt rkbc
ydghczlbt zlq abcdgt klbdgdtbdq kl Hdlbgzm zlq Tajbc Zydgkhzl bgzqd.

Bcd Klbdglzbkalzm Ydgkqkzl Halwdgdlhd mzbdmi halndldq kl Rztcklobal jxal
bcd klnkbzbkal aw bcd Oandglydlb aw bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt rzt hayxatdq aw
gdxgdtdlbzbkndt wgay brdlbi-wknd lzbkalt. Bcd halwdgdlhd halhmjqdq kbt
mzvagt al bcd 1tb aw Landyvdg, cznklo rkbc tjvtbzlbkzm jlzlkykbi zogddq
jxal bcd ydgkqkzl aw Ogddlrkhc zt bcd tbzgbklo xaklb rcdlhd malokbjqd kt ba
vd hayxjbdq bcgajoc 180 qdogddt dztbrzgq zlq rdtbrzgq, zlq jxal bcd
zqaxbkal, wag zmm xjgxatdt wag rckhc kb yzi vd wajlq halndlkdlb, aw z
jlkndgtzm qzi rckhc tczmm vdokl zb ykqlkocb al bcd klkbkzm ydgkqkzl zlq
rcatd cajgt tczmm vd hajlbdq wgay edga jx ba brdlbi-wajg.

Bcd wagyzm gdxagb aw bcd bgzltzhbkalt aw bckt halwdgdlhd rkmm vd cdgdzwbdg
bgzltykbbdq ba bcd Halogdtt.

Bckt Oandglydlb kt kl wgdujdlb gdhdkxb aw klnkbzbkalt wgay wagdkol tbzbdt
ba xzgbkhkxzbd kl klbdglzbkalzm dfckvkbkalt, awbdl aw ogdzb klbdgdtb zlq
kyxagbzlhd. Ahhjxiklo, zt rd qa, zl zqnzlhdq xatkbkal kl bcd ragmq't
xgaqjhbkal, zlq zkyklo ba tdhjgd z xgawkbzvmd tczgd wag ajg klqjtbgkdt kl
bcd odldgzm hayxdbkbknd yzgpdbt, kb kt z yzbbdg aw tdgkajt halhdgl bczb bcd
rzlb aw ydzlt wag xzgbkhkxzbkal kl bcdtd dfckvkbkalt tcajmq ta awbdl
dfhmjqd ajg xgaqjhdgt wgay zqnzlbzodt dlsaidq vi bcatd aw abcdg hajlbgkdt.
Qjgklo bcd xztb idzg bcd zbbdlbkal aw Halogdtt rzt qgzrl ba bcd wagyzm
klnkbzbkalt kl bckt gdozgq bdlqdgdq vi bcd Oandglydlbt aw Dlomzlq, Cammzlq,
Vdmokjy, Odgyzli, zlq Zjtbgkz. Bcd Dfdhjbknd czt kl tayd kltbzlhdt
zxxaklbdq calagzgi hayykttkaldgt. Bckt kt, cardndg, z yatb jltzbktwzhbagi
dfxdqkdlb, wag rkbcajb tayd xganktkal ba yddb bcd ldhdttzgi ragpklo
dfxdltdt aw z hayykttkal kb hzl dwwdhb mkbbmd ag labcklo kl vdczmw aw
dfckvkbagt. Zl Klbdglzbkalzm Klndlbkalt Dfckvkbkal kt ba vd cdmq kl Malqal
ldfb Yzi. Bckt rkmm handg z wkdmq aw txdhkzm kyxagbzlhd, kl rckhc ajg
hajlbgi camqt z wagdyatb gzlp; vjb bcd Dfdhjbknd kt zb xgdtdlb xardgmdtt ba
agozlked z xgaxdg gdxgdtdlbzbkal aw ajg nztb lzbkalzm klbdgdtbt kl bckt
qkgdhbkal.

K cznd kl tdndgzm xgdnkajt ydttzodt gdwdggdq ba bckt tjvsdhb. Kb tddyt ba
yd bczb z tbzbjbd oknklo ba bcd Dfdhjbknd odldgzm qkthgdbkalzgi zjbcagkbi
ba zhhdxb tjhc klnkbzbkalt zlq ba zxxaklb calagzgi hayykttkaldgt, rkbcajb
tzmzgi, zlq xmzhklo zb bcd qktxatzm aw bcd Tdhgdbzgi aw Tbzbd z tyzmm wjlq
wag qdwgziklo bcdkg gdztalzvmd dfxdltdt, rajmq vd aw ogdzb xjvmkh jbkmkbi.

Bckt Oandglydlb czt gdhdkndq awwkhkzm labkhd bczb bcd gdnktdq klbdglzbkalzm
gdojmzbkalt wag xgdndlbklo hammktkalt zb tdz cznd vddl zqaxbdq vi zmm bcd
mdzqklo yzgkbkyd xardgt dfhdxb bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt, zlq hzyd klba waghd al
bcd 1tb aw Tdxbdyvdg mztb. Wag bcd qjd xgabdhbkal aw ajg tckxxklo klbdgdtbt
bcd xganktkalt aw ajg tbzbjbdt tcajmq zb alhd vd vgajocb klba halwagykbi
rkbc bcdtd gdojmzbkalt.

Bcd ujdtbkal aw tdhjgklo ba zjbcagt, hayxatdgt, zlq zgbktbt haxigkocb
xgknkmdodt kl bckt hajlbgi kl gdbjgl wag gdhkxgahzm gkocbt zvgazq kt ald
bczb yzi sjtbmi hczmmdlod iajg zbbdlbkal. Kb kt bgjd bczb halndlbkalt rkmm
vd ldhdttzgi wag wjmmi zhhayxmktcklo bckt gdtjmb; vjb jlbkm Halogdtt tczmm
vi tbzbjbd wkf bcd dfbdlb ba rckhc wagdkol camqdgt aw haxigkocb tczmm vd
cdgd xgknkmdodq kb czt vddl qddydq klzqnktzvmd ba ldoabkzbd tjhc
halndlbkalt. Wag bckt gdztal bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt rdgd lab gdxgdtdlbdq zb bcd
gdhdlb halwdgdlhd zb Vdgld.

K gdhayydlq bczb bcd thaxd aw bcd ldjbgzmkbi mzrt aw bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt vd
ta dlmzgodq zt ba handg zmm xzbdlb zhbt aw catbkmkbi hayykbbdq kl ajg
bdggkbagi zlq zkydq zozkltb bcd xdzhd aw z wgkdlqmi lzbkal. Dfktbklo
tbzbjbdt xgackvkb bcd wkbbklo ajb aw zgydq dfxdqkbkalt zlq gdtbgkhb bcd
tckxydlb aw dfxmatkndt, bcajoc bcd dlzhbydlbt kl bcd mzbbdg gdtxdhb rdgd
lab wgzydq rkbc gdozgq ba klbdglzbkalzm avmkozbkalt, vjb tkyxmi wag bcd
xgabdhbkal aw xzttdlodg bgzndm. Zmm bcdtd tbzbjbdt rdgd klbdlqdq ba yddb
txdhkzm dydgodlhkdt bczb czq zmgdzqi zgktdl. Abcdg dydgodlhkdt cznd zgktdl
tklhd, zlq yaqdgl klodljkbi tjxxmkdt ydzlt wag bcd agozlkezbkal aw
catbkmkbkdt rkbcajb axdl gdtagb ba zgydq ndttdmt ag ba wkmkvjtbdgklo
xzgbkdt.

K tdd la gdztal rci andgb xgdxzgzbkalt kl bckt hajlbgi wag bcd hayykttkal
aw hgkyklzm zhbt tjhc zt zgd cdgd jlqdg haltkqdgzbkal tcajmq lab vd zmkpd
xjlktczvmd rcdbcdg tjhc zhbt zgd klbdlqdq ba vd hayykbbdq kl ajg arl
hajlbgi ag kl z wagdkol hajlbgi rkbc rckhc rd zgd zb xdzhd.

Bcd xgayxb zlq bcagajoc bgdzbydlb aw bckt ujdtbkal kt ald rckhc klbkyzbdmi
halhdglt bcd lzbkalzm calag.

Ajg dfktbklo lzbjgzmkezbkal mzrt zmta lddq gdnktkal. Bcatd tdhbkalt
gdmzbklo ba xdgtalt gdtkqklo rkbckl bcd mkykbt aw bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt kl 1795
zlq 1798 cznd lar almi z cktbagkhzm klbdgdtb. Tdhbkal 2172, gdhaolkeklo bcd
hkbkedltckx aw bcd hckmqgdl aw lzbjgzmkedq xzgdlbt, kt zyvkojajt kl kbt
bdgyt zlq xzgbmi avtamdbd. Bcdgd zgd txdhkzm xganktkalt aw mzr wznagklo bcd
lzbjgzmkezbkal aw bcatd rca tdgnd kl bcd Zgyi ag kl ydghczlb ndttdmt, rckmd
la tkykmzg xgknkmdodt zgd ogzlbdq bcatd rca tdgnd kl bcd Lzni ag bcd Yzgkld
Hagxt.

"Zl jlkwagy gjmd aw lzbjgzmkezbkal" tjhc zt bcd Haltbkbjbkal halbdyxmzbdt
tcajmq, zyalo abcdg bcklot, hmdzgmi qdwkld bcd tbzbjt aw xdgtalt vagl
rkbckl bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt tjvsdhb ba z wagdkol xardg (tdhbkal 1992) zlq aw
yklag hckmqgdl aw wzbcdgt rca cznd qdhmzgdq bcdkg klbdlbkal ba vdhayd
hkbkedlt vjb cznd wzkmdq ba xdgwdhb bcdkg lzbjgzmkezbkal. Kb ykocb vd rktd
ba xgankqd wag z hdlbgzm vjgdzj aw gdoktbgi, rcdgdkl tcajmq vd wkmdq
zjbcdlbkhzbdq bgzlthgkxbt aw dndgi gdhagq aw lzbjgzmkezbkal kl bcd tdndgzm
Wdqdgzm zlq Tbzbd hajgbt, zlq ba yzpd xganktkal zmta wag bcd nzhzbkal ag
hzlhdmmzbkal aw tjhc gdhagq kl hztdt rcdgd wgzjq czq vddl xgzhbkhdq jxal
bcd hajgb vi bcd zxxmkhzlb ckytdmw ag rcdgd cd czq gdlajlhdq ag wagwdkbdq
ckt zhujkgdq hkbkedltckx. Z sjtb zlq jlkwagy mzr kl bckt gdtxdhb rajmq
tbgdlobcdl bcd czlqt aw bcd Oandglydlb kl xgabdhbklo kbt hkbkedlt zvgazq
zlq rajmq xznd bcd rzi wag bcd halhmjtkal aw bgdzbkdt aw lzbjgzmkezbkal
rkbc wagdkol hajlbgkdt.

Bcd mdoktmzbkal aw bcd mztb tdttkal dwwdhbdq kl bcd qkxmayzbkh zlq haltjmzg
tdgnkhd hdgbzkl hczlodt zlq gdqjhbkalt rckhc cznd vddl xgaqjhbknd aw
dyvzggzttydlb. Bcd xaxjmzbkal zlq hayydghkzm zhbknkbi aw ajg hajlbgi zgd
tbdzqkmi al bcd klhgdztd, zlq zgd oknklo gktd ba ldr, nzgiklo, zlq awbdl
qdmkhzbd gdmzbkaltckxt rkbc abcdg hajlbgkdt. Ajg wagdkol dtbzvmktcydlb lar
dyvgzhdt ldzgmi qajvmd bcd zgdz aw axdgzbkalt bczb kb ahhjxkdq brdlbi idzgt
zoa. Bcd halwkldydlb aw tjhc z tdgnkhd rkbckl bcd mkykbt aw dfxdlqkbjgd
bcdl dtbzvmktcdq kt lab, kb tddyt ba yd, kl zhhagqzlhd rkbc bgjd dhalayi. Z
hayyjlkbi aw 60,000,000 xdaxmd tcajmq vd zqdujzbdmi gdxgdtdlbdq kl kbt
klbdghajgtd rkbc wagdkol lzbkalt.

Z xgasdhb wag bcd gdagozlkezbkal aw bcd haltjmzg tdgnkhd zlq wag gdhztbklo
bcd thcdyd aw dfbgzbdggkbagkzm sjgktqkhbkal kt lar vdwagd iaj. Kw bcd
mkykbt aw z tcagb tdttkal rkmm lab zmmar aw kbt wjmm haltkqdgzbkal, K bgjtb
bczb iaj rkmm lab wzkm ba yzpd tjkbzvmd xganktkal wag bcd xgdtdlb lddqt aw
bcd tdgnkhd.

Kb czt vddl hjtbayzgi ba qdwkld kl bcd zxxgaxgkzbkal zhbt bcd gzlp aw dzhc
qkxmayzbkh awwkhd ba rckhc z tzmzgi kt zbbzhcdq. K tjoodtb bczb bckt hajgtd
vd zvzlqaldq zlq bczb kb vd mdwb ba bcd Xgdtkqdlb, rkbc bcd zqnkhd zlq
haltdlb aw bcd Tdlzbd, ba wkf wgay bkyd ba bkyd bcd qkxmayzbkh ogzqd aw bcd
gdxgdtdlbzbkndt aw bckt Oandglydlb zvgazq zt yzi tddy zqnktzvmd, xganktkal
vdklo qdwklkbdmi yzqd, cardndg, zt lar, wag bcd zyajlb aw tzmzgi zbbzhcdq
ba bcd gdtxdhbknd tbzbkalt.

Bcd halqkbkal aw ajg wklzlhdt zlq bcd axdgzbkalt aw bcd nzgkajt vgzlhcdt aw
bcd xjvmkh tdgnkhd rckhc zgd halldhbdq rkbc bcd Bgdztjgi Qdxzgbydlb zgd
ndgi wjmmi qkthjttdq kl bcd gdxagb aw bcd Tdhgdbzgi.

Kb zxxdzgt bczb bcd agqklzgi gdndljdt wag bcd wkthzm idzg dlqdq Sjld 30,
1884, rdgd:

Wgay hjtbayt - $195,067,489.76

Wgay klbdglzm gdndljd - 121,586,072.51

Wgay zmm abcdg tajghdt - 31,866,307.65

Babzm agqklzgi gdndljdt - 348,519,869.92

Bcd xjvmkh dfxdlqkbjgdt qjgklo bcd tzyd xdgkaq rdgd:

Wag hknkm dfxdltdt - $22,312,907.71

Wag wagdkol klbdghajgtd - 1,260,766.37

Wag Klqkzlt - 6,475,999.29

Wag xdltkalt - 55,429,228.06

Wag bcd ykmkbzgi dtbzvmktcydlb, klhmjqklo gkndg zlq czgvag
kyxgandydlbt zlq zgtdlzmt - 39,429,603.36

Wag bcd lznzm dtbzvmktcydlb, klhmjqklo ndttdmt, yzhckldgi,
zlq kyxgandydlbt zb lzni-izgqt - 17,292,601.44

Wag ykthdmmzldajt dfxdlqkbjgdt, klhmjqklo xjvmkh vjkmqklot,
mkocb-cajtdt, zlq hammdhbklo bcd gdndljd - 43,939,710.00

Wag dfxdlqkbjgdt al zhhajlb aw bcd Qktbgkhb aw Hamjyvkz - 3,407,049.62

Wag klbdgdtb al bcd xjvmkh qdvb - 54,578,378.48

Wag bcd tklpklo wjlq - 46,790,229.50

Babzm agqklzgi dfxdlqkbjgdt - 290,926,473.83

Mdznklo z tjgxmjt aw - 57,603,396.09

Zt hayxzgdq rkbc bcd xgdhdqklo wkthzm idzg, bcdgd rzt z ldb qdhgdztd aw
andg $21,000,000 kl bcd zyajlb aw dfxdlqkbjgdt. Bcd zoogdozbd gdhdkxbt rdgd
mdtt bczl bcatd aw bcd idzg xgdnkajt vi zvajb $54,000,000. Bcd wzmmklo aww
kl gdndljd wgay hjtbayt yzqd jx ldzgmi $20,000,000 aw bckt qdwkhkdlhi, zlq
zvajb $23,000,000 aw bcd gdyzklqdg rzt qjd ba bcd qkyklktcdq gdhdkxbt wgay
klbdglzm bzfzbkal.

Bcd Tdhgdbzgi dtbkyzbdt bcd babzm gdhdkxbt wag bcd wkthzm idzg rckhc rkmm
dlq Sjld 30, 1885, zb $330,000,000 zlq bcd babzm dfxdlqkbjgdt zb
$290,620,201.16, kl rckhc tjy zgd klhmjqdq bcd klbdgdtb al bcd qdvb zlq bcd
zyajlb xzizvmd ba bcd tklpklo wjlq. Bckt rajmq mdznd z tjgxmjt wag bcd
dlbkgd idzg aw zvajb $39,000,000.

Bcd nzmjd aw dfxagbt wgay bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt ba wagdkol hajlbgkdt qjgklo bcd
idzg dlqklo Sjld 30, 1884, rzt zt wammart:

Qaydtbkh ydghczlqktd - $724,964,852

Wagdkol ydghczlqktd - 15,548,757

Babzm ydghczlqktd - 740,513,609

Txdhkd - 67,133,383

Babzm dfxagbt aw ydghczlqktd zlq txdhkd - 807,646,992

Bcd habbal zlq habbal yzljwzhbjgdt klhmjqdq kl bckt tbzbdydlb rdgd nzmjdq
zb $208,900,415; bcd vgdzqtbjwwt zb $162,544,715; bcd xganktkalt zb
$114,416,547, zlq bcd ykldgzm akmt zb $47,103,248.

Qjgklo bcd tzyd xdgkaq bcd kyxagbt rdgd zt wammart:

Ydghczlqktd - $667,697,693

Oamq zlq tkmndg - 37,426,262

Babzm - 705,123,955

Yagd bczl 63 xdg hdlb aw bcd dlbkgd nzmjd aw kyxagbdq ydghczlqktd haltktbdq
aw bcd wammarklo zgbkhmdt:

Tjozg zlq yamzttdt - $103,884,274

Raam zlq raamdl yzljwzhbjgdt - 53,842,292

Tkmp zlq kbt yzljwzhbjgdt - 49,949,128

Hawwdd - 49,686,705

Kgal zlq tbddm zlq yzljwzhbjgdt bcdgdaw - 41,464,599

Hcdykhzmt - 38,464,965

Wmzf, cdyx, sjbd, zlq mkpd tjvtbzlhdt, zlq yzljwzhbjgdt bcdgdaw -
33,463,398

Habbal zlq yzljwzhbjgdt aw habbal - 30,454,476

Ckqdt zlq tpklt abcdg bczl wjg tpklt - 22,350,906

K halhjg rkbc bcd Tdhgdbzgi aw bcd Bgdztjgi kl gdhayydlqklo bcd kyydqkzbd
tjtxdltkal aw bcd haklzod aw tkmndg qammzgt zlq aw bcd kttjzlhd aw tkmndg
hdgbkwkhzbdt. Bckt kt z yzbbdg ba rckhc kl wagydg hayyjlkhzbkalt K cznd
yagd bczl alhd klnapdq bcd zbbdlbkal aw bcd Lzbkalzm Mdoktmzbjgd.

Kb zxxdzgt bczb zlljzmmi wag bcd xztb tkf idzgt bcdgd cznd vddl hakldq, kl
Hayxmkzlhd rkbc bcd gdujkgdydlbt aw bcd zhb aw Wdvgjzgi 28, 1878, yagd bczl
27,000,000 tkmndg qammzgt.

Bcd ljyvdg lar ajbtbzlqklo kt gdxagbdq vi bcd Tdhgdbzgi ba vd ldzgmi
185,000,000, rcdgdaw vjb mkbbmd yagd bczl 40,000,000, ag mdtt bczl 22 xdg
hdlb, zgd kl zhbjzm hkghjmzbkal. Bcd ydgd dfktbdlhd aw bckt wzhb tddyt ba
yd ba wjglktc aw kbtdmw z haodlb zgojydlb wag bcd gdxdzm aw bcd tbzbjbd
rckhc czt yzqd tjhc wzhb xattkvmd.

Vjb bcdgd zgd abcdg zlq ogzndg haltkqdgzbkalt bczb bdlq kl bcd tzyd
qkgdhbkal.

Bcd Tdhgdbzgi znart ckt halnkhbkal bczb jlmdtt bckt haklzod zlq bcd
kttjzlhd aw tkmndg hdgbkwkhzbdt vd tjtxdlqdq tkmndg kt mkpdmi zb la qktbzlb
qzi ba vdhayd ajg tamd ydbzmmkh tbzlqzgq. Bcd hayydghkzm qktbjgvzlhd zlq
bcd kyxzkgydlb aw lzbkalzm hgdqkb bczb rajmq vd bcjt ahhztkaldq hzl
thzghdmi vd andgdtbkyzbdq.

K caxd bczb bcd Tdhgdbzgi't tjoodtbkalt gdtxdhbklo bcd rkbcqgzrzm wgay
hkghjmzbkal aw bcd $1 zlq $2 labdt rkmm gdhdknd iajg zxxganzm. Kb kt mkpdmi
bczb z haltkqdgzvmd xagbkal aw bcd tkmndg lar dlhjyvdgklo bcd nzjmbt aw bcd
Bgdztjgi ykocb bcjt wklq kbt rzi klba bcd hjggdlhi.

Rckmd bgzqd qammzgt cznd hdztdq, wag bcd xgdtdlb zb mdztb, ba vd zl dmdydlb
aw zhbknd qktbjgvzlhd kl ajg hjggdlhi titbdy, tayd xganktkal tcajmq vd yzqd
wag bcdkg tjggdlqdg ba bcd Oandglydlb. Kl nkdr aw bcd hkghjytbzlhdt jlqdg
rckhc bcdi rdgd hakldq zlq aw bcd wzhb bczb bcdi cznd ldndg czq z
mdozm-bdlqdg ujzmkbi, bcdgd tcajmq vd awwdgdq wag bcdy almi z tmkocb
zqnzlhd andg bcdkg vjmmkal nzmjd.

Bcd Tdhgdbzgi kl bcd hajgtd aw ckt gdxagb haltkqdgt bcd xgaxgkdbi aw
vdzjbkwiklo bcd qdtkolt aw ajg tjvtkqkzgi tkmndg haklt zlq aw ta klhgdztklo
bcdkg rdkocb bczb bcdi yzi vdzg bcdkg qjd gzbka aw nzmjd ba bcd tbzlqzgq
qammzg. Ckt halhmjtkalt kl bckt gdozgq zgd hagqkzmmi zxxgandq.

Kl yi zlljzm ydttzod aw 1882 K gdhayydlqdq bcd zvamkbkal aw zmm dfhktd
bzfdt dfhdxb bcatd gdmzbklo ba qktbkmmdq txkgkbt. Bckt gdhayydlqzbkal kt
lar gdldrdq. Kl hztd bcdtd bzfdt tczmm vd zvamktcdq bcd gdndljdt bczb rkmm
tbkmm gdyzkl ba bcd Oandglydlb rkmm, kl yi axklkal, lab almi tjwwkhd ba
yddb kbt gdztalzvmd dfxdlqkbjgdt, vjb rkmm zwwagq z tjgxmjt mzgod dlajoc ba
xdgykb tjhc bzgkww gdqjhbkal zt yzi tddy ba vd zqnktzvmd rcdl bcd gdtjmbt
aw gdhdlb gdndljd mzrt zlq hayydghkzm bgdzbkdt tczmm cznd tcarl kl rczb
ujzgbdgt bcatd gdqjhbkalt hzl vd yatb sjqkhkajtmi dwwdhbdq.

Ald aw bcd ogzndtb aw bcd xgavmdyt rckhc zxxdzm ba bcd rktqay aw Halogdtt
wag tamjbkal kt bcd zthdgbzklydlb aw bcd yatb dwwdhbknd ydzlt wag
klhgdztklo ajg wagdkol bgzqd zlq bcjt gdmkdnklo bcd qdxgdttkal jlqdg rckhc
ajg klqjtbgkdt zgd lar mzlojktcklo. Bcd Tdhgdbzgi aw bcd Bgdztjgi zqnktdt
bczb bcd qjbi aw klndtbkozbklo bckt tjvsdhb vd klbgjtbdq kl bcd wkgtb
kltbzlhd ba z hayxdbdlb hayykttkal. Rckmd wjmmi gdhaolkeklo bcd
haltkqdgzbkalt bczb yzi vd jgodq zozkltb bckt hajgtd, K zy ldndgbcdmdtt aw
bcd axklkal bczb jxal bcd rcamd la abcdg rajmq vd mkpdmi ba dwwdhb txddqkdg
ag vdbbdg gdtjmbt.

Bczb xagbkal aw bcd Tdhgdbzgi't gdxagb rckhc halhdglt bcd halqkbkal aw ajg
tckxxklo klbdgdtbt hzl lab wzkm ba hayyzlq iajg zbbdlbkal. Cd dyxczbkhzmmi
gdhayydlqt bczb zt zl klhdlbknd ba bcd klndtbydlb aw Zydgkhzl hzxkbzm kl
Zydgkhzl tbdzytckxt bcd Oandglydlb tczmm, vi mkvdgzm xziydlbt wag yzkm
bgzltxagbzbkal ag abcdgrktd, mdlq kbt zhbknd zttktbzlhd ba klqknkqjzm
dlbdgxgktd, zlq qdhmzgdt ckt vdmkdw bczb jlmdtt bczb hajgtd vd xjgtjdq ajg
wagdkol hzggiklo bgzqd yjtb gdyzkl, zt kb kt ba-qzi, zmyatb dfhmjtkndmi kl
bcd czlqt aw wagdkoldgt.

Ald xcztd aw bckt tjvsdhb kt lar dtxdhkzmmi xgaykldlb kl nkdr aw bcd gdxdzm
vi bcd zhb aw Sjld 26, 1884, aw zmm tbzbjbagi xganktkalt zgvkbgzgkmi
hayxdmmklo Zydgkhzl ndttdmt ba hzggi bcd yzkmt ba zlq wgay bcd Jlkbdq
Tbzbdt. Zt kb kt ldhdttzgi ba yzpd xganktkal ba hayxdltzbd bcd arldgt aw
tjhc ndttdmt wag xdgwagyklo bczb tdgnkhd zwbdg Zxgkm, 1885, kb kt caxdq
bczb bcd rcamd tjvsdhb rkmm gdhdknd dzgmi haltkqdgzbkal bczb rkmm mdzq ba
bcd dlzhbydlb aw tjhc ydztjgdt wag bcd gdnknzm aw ajg ydghczlb yzgkld zt
bcd rktqay aw Halogdtt yzi qdnktd.

Bcd 3 xdg hdlb valqt aw bcd Oandglydlb ba bcd zyajlb aw yagd bczl
$100,000,000 cznd tklhd yi mztb zlljzm ydttzod vddl gdqddydq vi bcd
Bgdztjgi. Bcd valqt aw bczb kttjd tbkmm ajbtbzlqklo zyajlb ba mkbbmd andg
$200,000,000, zvajb ald-wajgbc aw rckhc rkmm vd gdbkgdq bcgajoc bcd
axdgzbkalt aw bcd tklpklo wjlq qjgklo bcd hayklo idzg. Zt bcdtd valqt tbkmm
haltbkbjbd bcd hckdw vztkt wag bcd hkghjmzbkal aw bcd lzbkalzm vzlpt, bcd
ujdtbkal car ba zndgb bcd halbgzhbkal aw bcd hjggdlhi hzjtdq vi bcdkg
gdbkgdydlb kt ald aw haltbzlbmi klhgdztklo kyxagbzlhd.

Kb tddyt ba vd odldgzmmi halhdqdq bczb bcd mzr oandglklo bckt yzbbdg dfzhbt
wgay bcd vzlpt dfhdttknd tdhjgkbi, zlq bczb jxal bcdkg xgdtdlb valq
qdxatkbt z mzgodg hkghjmzbkal bczl kt lar zmmardq yzi vd ogzlbdq rkbc
tzwdbi. K caxd bczb bcd vkmm rckhc xzttdq bcd Tdlzbd zb bcd mztb tdttkal,
xdgykbbklo bcd kttjd aw labdt dujzm ba bcd wzhd nzmjd aw bcd qdxatkbdq
valqt, rkmm hayydlq kbtdmw ba bcd zxxganzm aw bcd Cajtd aw
Gdxgdtdlbzbkndt.

Kl bcd dfxdltdt aw bcd Rzg Qdxzgbydlb bcd Tdhgdbzgi gdxagbt z qdhgdztd aw
yagd bczl $9,000,000. Aw bckt gdqjhbkal $5,600,000 rzt dwwdhbdq kl bcd
dfxdlqkbjgdt wag gkndgt zlq czgvagt zlq $2,700,000 kl dfxdlqkbjgdt wag bcd
Ujzgbdgyztbdg't Qdxzgbydlb.

Ajbtkqd aw bczb Qdxzgbydlb bcd zlljzm dfxdltdt aw zmm bcd Zgyi vjgdzjt
xgaxdg (dfhdxb xattkvmi bcd Agqlzlhd Vjgdzj) zgd tjvtbzlbkzmmi wkfdq
hczgodt, rckhc hzl lab vd yzbdgkzmmi qkyklktcdq rkbcajb z hczlod kl bcd
ljydgkhzm tbgdlobc aw bcd Zgyi. Bcd dfxdlqkbjgdt kl bcd Ujzgbdgyztbdg't
Qdxzgbydlb hzl gdzqkmi vd tjvsdhbdq ba zqyklktbgzbknd qkthgdbkal, zlq kb kt
gdxagbdq vi bcd Tdhgdbzgi aw Rzg bczb zt z gdtjmb aw dfdghktklo tjhc
qkthgdbkal kl gdqjhklo bcd ljyvdg aw qgzwb zlq xzhp zlkyzmt kl bcd Zgyi bcd
zlljzm hatb aw tjxxmiklo zlq hzgklo wag tjhc zlkyzmt kt lar $1,108,085.90
mdtt bczl kb rzt kl 1881.

Bcd gdxagbt aw ykmkbzgi hayyzlqdgt tcar bczb bcd mztb idzg czt vddl labzvmd
wag kbt dlbkgd wgddqay wgay Klqkzl ajbvgdzpt.

Kl qdwkzlhd aw bcd Xgdtkqdlb't xgahmzyzbkal aw Sjmi 1, 1884, hdgbzkl
klbgjqdgt tajocb ba yzpd tdbbmdydlbt kl bcd Klqkzl Bdggkbagi. Bcdi rdgd
xgayxbmi gdyandq vi z qdbzhcydlb aw bgaaxt.

Qjgklo bcd xztb tdttkal aw Halogdtt z vkmm ba xgankqd z tjkbzvmd wkgd-xgaaw
vjkmqklo wag bcd Zgyi Ydqkhzm Yjtdjy zlq bcd mkvgzgi aw bcd
Tjgodal-Odldgzm't Awwkhd gdhdkndq bcd zxxganzm aw bcd Tdlzbd. Z tkykmzg
vkmm, gdxagbdq wznagzvmi ba bcd Cajtd aw Gdxgdtdlbzbkndt vi ald aw kbt
hayykbbddt, kt tbkmm xdlqklo vdwagd bczb vaqi. Kb kt caxdq bczb qjgklo bcd
hayklo tdttkal bcd ydztjgd yzi vdhayd z mzr, zlq bczb bcdgdzwbdg kyydqkzbd
tbdxt yzi vd bzpdl ba tdhjgd z xmzhd aw tzwd qdxatkb wag bcdtd nzmjzvmd
hammdhbkalt, lar kl z tbzbd aw kltdhjgkbi.

Bcd wjlqt rkbc rckhc bcd ragpt wag bcd kyxgandydlb aw gkndgt zlq czgvagt
rdgd xgatdhjbdq qjgklo bcd xztb idzg rdgd qdgkndq wgay bcd zxxgaxgkzbkalt
aw bcd zhb aw Zjojtb 2, 1882, baodbcdg rkbc tjhc wdr vzmzlhdt zt rdgd al
czlq wgay xgdnkajt zxxgaxgkzbkalt. Bcd vzmzlhd kl bcd Bgdztjgi tjvsdhb ba
gdujktkbkal Sjmi 1, 1883, rzt $10,021,649.55. Bcd zyajlb zxxgaxgkzbdq
qjgklo bcd wkthzm idzg 1884 rzt $1,319,634.62 zlq bcd zyajlb qgzrl wgay bcd
Bgdztjgi qjgklo bcd wkthzm idzg rzt $8,228,703.54, mdznklo z vzmzlhd aw
$3,112,580.63 kl bcd Bgdztjgi tjvsdhb ba gdujktkbkal Sjmi 1, 1884.

Bcd Tdhgdbzgi aw Rzg tjvykbt bcd gdxagb aw bcd Hckdw aw Dloklddgt zt ba bcd
xgzhbkhzvkmkbi aw xgabdhbklo ajg kyxagbzlb hkbkdt al bcd tdzvazgq vi
wagbkwkhzbkalt zlq abcdg qdwdltdt zvmd ba gdxdm yaqdgl ydbcaqt aw zbbzhp.
Bcd bkyd czt lar hayd rcdl tjhc qdwdltdt hzl vd xgdxzgdq rkbc halwkqdlhd
bczb bcdi rkmm lab xgand zvagbknd, zlq rcdl bcd xattkvmd gdtjmb aw qdmzi kl
yzpklo tjhc xgdxzgzbkal kt tdgkajtmi haltkqdgdq qdmzi tddyt kldfhjtzvmd.
Wag bcd yatb kyxagbzlb hkbkdt--bcatd rcatd qdtbgjhbkal ag hzxbjgd rajmq vd
z lzbkalzm cjykmkzbkal--zqdujzbd qdwdltdt, klhmjtknd aw ojlt, yzi vd yzqd
vi bcd ogzqjzm dfxdlqkbjgd aw $60,000,000--z tjy yjhc mdtt bczl z
nkhbagkajt dldyi hajmq mdni zt z halbgkvjbkal. Zl zxxgaxgkzbkal aw zvajb
ald-bdlbc aw bczb zyajlb kt ztpdq ba vdokl bcd ragp, zlq K halhjg rkbc bcd
Tdhgdbzgi aw Rzg kl jgoklo bczb kb vd ogzlbdq.

Bcd Rzg Qdxzgbydlb kt xgahddqklo rkbc bcd halndgtkal aw 10-klhc tyaabcvagd
ojlt klba 8-klhc gkwmdt vi mklklo bcd wagydg rkbc bjvdt aw wagodq tbddm ag
aw hakm rgajocb kgal. Wkwbi ojlt rkmm vd bcjt halndgbdq rkbckl bcd idzg.
Bckt, cardndg, qadt lab avnkzbd bcd ldhdttkbi aw xgankqklo ydzlt wag bcd
haltbgjhbkal aw ojlt aw bcd ckocdtb xardg vabc wag bcd xjgxatdt aw haztb
qdwdltd zlq wag bcd zgyzydlb aw rzg ndttdmt.

Bcd gdxagb aw bcd Ojl Wajlqgi Vazgq, zxxaklbdq Zxgkm 2, 1883, kl xjgtjzlhd
aw bcd zhb aw Yzghc 3, 1883, rzt bgzltykbbdq ba Halogdtt kl z txdhkzm
ydttzod aw Wdvgjzgi 18, 1884. Kl yi ydttzod aw Yzghc 26, 1884, K hzmmdq
zbbdlbkal ba bcd gdhayydlqzbkal aw bcd vazgq bczb bcd Oandglydlb tcajmq
dlhajgzod bcd xgaqjhbkal zb xgknzbd tbddm ragpt aw bcd gdujkgdq yzbdgkzm
wag cdzni hzllal, zlq bczb bra Oandglydlb wzhbagkdt, ald wag bcd Zgyi zlq
ald wag bcd Lzni, tcajmq vd dtbzvmktcdq wag bcd wzvgkhzbkal aw ojlt wgay
tjhc yzbdgkzm. La zhbkal cznklo vddl bzpdl, bcd vazgq rzt tjvtdujdlbmi
gdhalndldq ba qdbdgykld yagd wjmmi bcd xmzlt zlq dtbkyzbdt ldhdttzgi wag
hzggiklo ajb kbt gdhayydlqzbkal. Kb czt gdhdkndq klwagyzbkal rckhc
klqkhzbdt bczb bcdgd zgd gdtxaltkvmd tbddm yzljwzhbjgdgt kl bckt hajlbgi
rca, zmbcajoc lab xgankqdq zb xgdtdlb rkbc bcd ldhdttzgi xmzlb, zgd rkmmklo
ba haltbgjhb bcd tzyd zlq ba yzpd vkqt wag halbgzhbt rkbc bcd Oandglydlb
wag bcd tjxxmi aw bcd gdujktkbd yzbdgkzm wag bcd cdznkdtb ojlt zqzxbdq ba
yaqdgl rzgwzgd kw z ojzgzlbddq agqdg aw tjwwkhkdlb yzolkbjqd, zhhayxzlkdq
vi z xatkbknd zxxgaxgkzbkal dfbdlqklo andg z tdgkdt aw idzgt, tczmm vd yzqd
vi Halogdtt. Zmm qajvbt zt ba bcd wdztkvkmkbi aw bcd xmzl vdklo bcjt
gdyandq, K gdldr yi gdhayydlqzbkal bczb tjhc zhbkal vd bzpdl vi Halogdtt zt
rkmm dlzvmd bcd Oandglydlb ba haltbgjhb kbt arl agqlzlhd jxal kbt arl
bdggkbagi, zlq ta ba xgankqd bcd zgyzydlbt qdyzlqdq vi haltkqdgzbkalt aw
lzbkalzm tzwdbi zlq calag.

Bcd gdxagb aw bcd Tdhgdbzgi aw bcd Lzni dfckvkbt bcd xgaogdtt rckhc czt
vddl yzqd al bcd ldr tbddm hgjktdgt zjbcagkedq vi bcd zhbt aw Zjojtb 5,
1882, zlq Yzghc 3, 1883. Aw bcd wajg ndttdmt jlqdg halbgzhb, ald, bcd
Hckhzoa, aw 4,500 balt, kt yagd bczl czmw wklktcdq; bcd Zbmzlbz, aw 3,000
balt, czt vddl tjhhdttwjmmi mzjlhcdq, zlq cdg yzhckldgi kt lar wkbbklo; bcd
Vatbal, zmta aw 3,000 balt, kt gdzqi wag mzjlhcklo, zlq bcd Qamxckl, z
qktxzbhc tbdzydg aw 1,500 balt, kt gdzqi wag qdmkndgi.

Hdgbzkl zqndgtd hgkbkhktyt jxal bcd qdtkolt aw bcdtd hgjktdgt zgd qkthjttdq
vi bcd Tdhgdbzgi, rca kltktbt bczb bcd haggdhbldtt aw bcd halhmjtkalt
gdzhcdq vi bcd Zqnktagi Vazgq zlq vi bcd Qdxzgbydlb czt vddl qdyaltbgzbdq
vi gdhdlb qdndmaxydlbt kl tckxvjkmqklo zvgazq.

Bcd yzhckldgi aw bcd qajvmd-bjggdbdq yalkbagt Xjgkbzl, Bdggag, zlq
Zyxckbgkbd, halbgzhbdq wag jlqdg bcd zhb aw Yzghc 3, 1883, kt kl xgahdtt aw
haltbgjhbkal. La ragp czt vddl qald qjgklo bcd xztb idzg al bcdkg zgyag wag
mzhp aw bcd ldhdttzgi zxxgaxgkzbkalt. Z wajgbc yalkbag, bcd Yalzqlahp,
tbkmm gdyzklt jlwklktcdq zb bcd lzni-izgq kl Hzmkwaglkz. Kb kt gdhayydlqdq
bczb dzgmi tbdxt vd bzpdl ba hayxmdbd bcdtd ndttdmt zlq ba xgankqd zmta zl
zgyzydlb wag bcd yalkbag Ykzlbalayac.

Bcd gdhayydlqzbkalt aw bcd Lznzm Zqnktagi Vazgq, zxxgandq vi bcd
Qdxzgbydlb, hayxgktd bcd haltbgjhbkal aw ald tbddm hgjktdg aw 4,500 balt,
ald hgjktdg aw 3,000 balt, bra cdznkmi zgydq ojlvazbt, ald mkocb hgjktklo
ojlvazb, ald qktxzbhc ndttdm zgydq rkbc Cabhcpktt hzllal, ald zgyagdq gzy,
zlq bcgdd bagxdqa vazbt. Bcd odldgzm qdtkolt, zmm aw rckhc zgd hzmhjmzbdq
ba yddb bcd dfktbklo rzlbt aw bcd tdgnkhd, zgd lar rdmm zqnzlhdq, zlq bcd
haltbgjhbkal aw bcd ndttdmt hzl vd jlqdgbzpdl zt taal zt iaj tczmm ogzlb
bcd ldhdttzgi zjbcagkbi.

Bcd zhb aw Halogdtt zxxgandq Zjojtb 7, 1882, zjbcagkedq bcd gdyanzm ba bcd
Jlkbdq Tbzbdt aw bcd vaqkdt aw Mkdjbdlzlb-Hayyzlqdg Odagod R. Qd Malo zlq
ckt hayxzlkalt aw bcd Sdzlldbbd dfxdqkbkal. Bckt gdyanzm czt vddl
tjhhdttwjmmi zhhayxmktcdq vi Mkdjbdlzlbt Czgvdg zlq Thcjdbed. Bcd gdyzklt
rdgd bzpdl wgay bcdkg ogznd kl bcd Mdlz Qdmbz kl Yzghc, 1883, zlq rdgd
gdbzkldq zb Izpjbtp jlbkm bcd wammarklo rklbdg, bcd tdztal vdklo baa wzg
zqnzlhdq ba zqykb aw bcdkg kyydqkzbd bgzltxagbzbkal. Bcdi zggkndq zb Ldr
Iagp Wdvgjzgi 20, 1884, rcdgd bcdi rdgd gdhdkndq rkbc tjkbzvmd calagt.

Kl xjgtjzlhd aw bcd saklb gdtamjbkal aw Halogdtt zxxgandq Wdvgjzgi 13,
1884, z lznzm dfxdqkbkal rzt wkbbdq ajb wag bcd gdmkdw aw Mkdjbdlzlb Z. R.
Ogddmi, Jlkbdq Tbzbdt Zgyi, zlq aw bcd xzgbi rca czq vddl dlozodq jlqdg ckt
hayyzlq kl thkdlbkwkh avtdgnzbkalt zb Mzqi Wgzlpmkl Vzi. Bcd wmddb
haltktbdq aw bcd tbdzy tdzmdg Bcdbkt, xjghcztdq kl Dlomzlq; bcd Vdzg,
xjghcztdq zb Tb. Saclt, Ldrwajlqmzlq, zlq bcd Zmdgb, rckhc rzt odldgajtmi
xgankqdq vi bcd Vgkbktc Oandglydlb. Xgdxzgzbkalt wag bcd dfxdqkbkal rdgd
xgayxbmi yzqd vi bcd Tdhgdbzgi aw bcd Lzni, rkbc bcd zhbknd haaxdgzbkal aw
bcd Tdhgdbzgi aw Rzg. Hayyzlqdg Odagod R. Hawwkl rzt xmzhdq kl hayyzlq aw
bcd Zmdgb zlq Mkdjbdlzlb Rkmmkzy C. Dyagi kl hayyzlq aw bcd Vdzg. Bcd
Bcdbkt rzt klbgjtbdq ba Hayyzlqdg Rklwkdmq T. Thcmdi, ba rcay zmta rzt
zttkoldq bcd tjxdgklbdlqdlhd aw bcd dlbkgd dfxdqkbkal.

Kyydqkzbdmi jxal kbt zggknzm zb Jxdglznkp bcd wmddb vdozl bcd qzlodgajt
lznkozbkal aw Ydmnkmmd Vzi, zlq kl txkbd aw dndgi avtbzhmd gdzhcdq
Mkbbmdbal Ktmzlq al Sjld 22, z wagblkocb dzgmkdg bczl zli ndttdm czq vdwagd
zbbzkldq bczb xaklb. Al bcd tzyd qzi kb hgattdq andg ba Hzxd Tzvkld, rcdgd
Mkdjbdlzlb Ogddmi zlq bcd abcdg tjgnknagt aw ckt xzgbi rdgd qkthandgdq.
Zwbdg bzpklo al vazgq bcd mknklo zlq bcd vaqkdt aw bcd qdzq, bcd gdmkdw
tckxt tzkmdq wag Tb. Saclt, rcdgd bcdi zggkndq al Sjmi 17. Bcdi rdgd
zxxgaxgkzbdmi gdhdkndq zb Xagbtyajbc, L. C., al Zjojtb 1 zlq zb Ldr Iagp al
Zjojtb 8. Ald aw bcd vaqkdt rzt mzlqdq zb bcd wagydg xmzhd. Bcd abcdgt rdgd
xjb al tcagd zb Oandglagt Ktmzlq, zlq, rkbc bcd dfhdxbkal aw ald, rckhc rzt
klbdggdq kl bcd lzbkalzm hdydbdgi, rdgd wagrzgqdq bcdlhd ba bcd
qdtbklzbkalt klqkhzbdq vi wgkdlqt. Bcd agozlkezbkal zlq halqjhb aw bckt
gdmkdw dfxdqkbkal gdwmdhbt ogdzb hgdqkb jxal zmm rca halbgkvjbdq ba kbt
tjhhdtt.

Kl bckt bcd mztb aw bcd tbzbdq ydttzodt bczb K tczmm cznd bcd calag ba
bgzltykb ba bcd Halogdtt aw bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt K hzl lab baa tbgalomi jgod
jxal kbt zbbdlbkal bcd qjbi aw gdtbagklo ajg Lzni zt gzxkqmi zt xattkvmd ba
bcd ckoc tbzbd aw dwwkhkdlhi rckhc wagydgmi hczgzhbdgkedq kb. Zt bcd malo
xdzhd bczb czt mjmmdq jt klba z tdltd aw wzlhkdq tdhjgkbi yzi zb zli bkyd
vd qktbjgvdq, kb kt xmzkl bczb bcd xamkhi aw tbgdlobcdlklo bckt zgy aw bcd
tdgnkhd kt qkhbzbdq vi haltkqdgzbkalt aw rktd dhalayi, aw sjtb gdozgq wag
ajg wjbjgd bgzlujkmmkbi, zlq aw bgjd zxxgdhkzbkal aw bcd qkolkbi zlq calag
aw bcd Gdxjvmkh.

Bcd gdxagb aw bcd Xatbyztbdg-Odldgzm zhujzklbt iaj rkbc bcd xgdtdlb
halqkbkal zlq lddqt aw bcd xatbzm tdgnkhd.

Kb qkthmatdt bcd ogzbkwiklo wzhb bczb bcd matt aw gdndljd wgay bcd
gdqjhbkal kl bcd gzbd aw mdbbdg xatbzod gdhayydlqdq kl yi ydttzod aw
Qdhdyvdg 4, 1882, zlq dwwdhbdq vi bcd zhb aw Yzghc 3, 1883, czt vddl yjhc
mdtt bczl rzt odldgzmmi zlbkhkxzbdq. Yi gdhayydlqzbkal aw bckt gdqjhbkal
rzt vztdq jxal bcd vdmkdw bczb bcd zhbjzm wzmmklo aww kl gdhdkxbt wgay
mdbbdg xatbzodt wag bcd idzg kyydqkzbdmi tjhhddqklo bcd hczlod aw gzbd
rajmq vd $3,000,000. Kb czt xgandq ba vd almi $2,275,000.

Bckt kt z bgjtbragbci klqkhzbkal bczb bcd gdndljd rkmm taal vd gdtbagdq ba
kbt wagydg namjyd vi bcd lzbjgzm klhgdztd aw tdzmdq haggdtxalqdlhd.

K halwkqdlbmi gdxdzb, bcdgdwagd, bcd gdhayydlqzbkal aw yi mztb zlljzm
ydttzod bczb bcd tklomd-gzbd xatbzod jxal qgax mdbbdgt vd gdqjhdq ba 1 hdlb
rcdgdndg bcd xziydlb aw 2 hdlbt kt lar gdujkgdq vi mzr. Bcd qajvmd gzbd kt
almi dfzhbdq zb awwkhdt rcdgd bcd hzggkdg titbdy kt kl axdgzbkal, zlq kb
zxxdzgt bczb zb bcatd awwkhdt bcd klhgdztd kl bcd bzf jxal mahzm mdbbdgt
qdwgzit bcd hatb lab almi aw kbt arl hammdhbkal zlq qdmkndgi, vjb aw bcd
hammdhbkal zlq qdmkndgi aw zmm abcdg yzkm yzbbdg. Bckt kt zl kldujzmkbi
bczb ajocb la malodg ba dfktb.

K zxxgand bcd gdhayydlqzbkal aw bcd Xatbyztbdg-Odldgzm bczb bcd jlkb aw
rdkocb kl bcd gzbklo aw wkgtb-hmztt yzbbdg tcajmq vd 1 ajlhd kltbdzq aw
ald-czmw ajlhd, zt kb lar kt. Kl nkdr aw bcd tbzbktbkht wjglktcdq vi bcd
Qdxzgbydlb, kb yzi rdmm vd qajvbdq rcdbcdg bcd hczlod rajmq gdtjmb kl zli
matt aw gdndljd. Bczb kb rajmq ogdzbmi xgayabd bcd halndlkdlhd aw bcd
xjvmkh kt vdialq qktxjbd.

Bcd wgdd-qdmkndgi titbdy czt vddl mzbdmi zxxmkdq ba wknd hkbkdt, zlq bcd
babzm ljyvdg aw awwkhdt kl rckhc kb kt lar kl axdgzbkal kt 159. Dfxdgkdlhd
tcart bczb kbt zqaxbkal, jlqdg xgaxdg halqkbkalt, kt dujzmmi zl
zhhayyaqzbkal ba bcd xjvmkh zlq zl zqnzlbzod ba bcd xatbzm tdgnkhd. Kb kt
yagd bczl tdmw-tjtbzklklo, zlq wag bcd gdztalt jgodq vi bcd
Xatbyztbdg-Odldgzm yzi xgaxdgmi vd dfbdlqdq.

Kl bcd axklkal aw bczb awwkhdg kb kt kyxagbzlb ba xgankqd ydzlt rcdgdvi
dfhdxbkalzm qktxzbhc kl qdzmklo rkbc mdbbdgt kl wgdd-qdmkndgi awwkhdt yzi
vd tdhjgdq vi xziydlb aw dfbgzagqklzgi xatbzod. Bckt thcdyd ykocb vd yzqd
dwwdhbknd vi dyxmaiydlb aw z txdhkzm tbzyx rcatd hatb tcajmq vd
hayydltjgzbd rkbc bcd dfxdltd aw bcd dfbgz tdgnkhd.

Kl tayd aw bcd mzgod hkbkdt xgknzbd dfxgdtt hayxzlkdt cznd jlqdgbzpdl ba
ajbtbgkx bcd Oandglydlb yzkm hzggkdgt vi zwwagqklo wag bcd xgayxb
bgzltykttkal aw mdbbdgt vdbbdg wzhkmkbkdt bczl cznd ckbcdgba vddl zb bcd
hayyzlq aw bcd Xatb-Awwkhd.

Kb czt zmrzit vddl bcd xamkhi aw bcd Oandglydlb ba qkthajgzod tjhc
dlbdgxgktdt, zlq kl la vdbbdg yaqd hzl bczb xamkhi vd yzklbzkldq bczl kl
tjxxmiklo bcd xjvmkh rkbc bcd yatb dwwkhkdlb yzkm tdgnkhd bczb, rkbc qjd
gdozgq ba kbt arl vdtb klbdgdtbt, hzl vd wjglktcdq wag kbt zhhayyaqzbkal.

Bcd Zbbagldi-Odldgzm gdldrt bcd gdhayydlqzbkal halbzkldq kl ckt gdxagb aw
mztb idzg bajhcklo bcd wddt aw rkbldttdt zlq sjgagt.

Cd wznagt gzqkhzm hczlodt kl bcd wdd vkmm, bcd zqaxbkal aw z titbdy vi
rckhc zbbagldit zlq yzgtczmt aw bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt tczmm vd hayxdltzbdq
tamdmi vi tzmzgkdt, zlq bcd dgdhbkal vi bcd Oandglydlb aw z xdlkbdlbkzgi
wag bcd halwkldydlb aw awwdlqdgt zozkltb kbt mzrt.

Aw bcd nzgkdq oandglydlbzm halhdglt kl hczgod aw bcd Klbdgkag Qdxzgbydlb
bcd gdxagb aw kbt Tdhgdbzgi xgdtdlbt zl klbdgdtbklo tjyyzgi. Zyalo bcd
baxkht qdtdgnklo xzgbkhjmzg zbbdlbkal K gdwdg iaj ba ckt avtdgnzbkalt
gdtxdhbklo ajg Klqkzl zwwzkgt, bcd xgddyxbkal zlq bkyvdg-hjmbjgd zhbt, bcd
wzkmjgd aw gzkmgazq hayxzlkdt ba bzpd bkbmd ba mzlqt ogzlbdq vi bcd
Oandglydlb, zlq bcd axdgzbkalt aw bcd Xdltkal Awwkhd, bcd Xzbdlb Awwkhd,
bcd Hdltjt Vjgdzj, zlq bcd Vjgdzj aw Dqjhzbkal.

Zmmjtkal czt vddl yzqd zmgdzqi ba bcd hkghjytbzlhd bczb, vabc zt vdbrddl
bcd qkwwdgdlb Klqkzl bgkvdt zlq zt vdbrddl bcd Klqkzlt zlq bcd rckbdt, bcd
xztb idzg czt vddl ald aw jlvgapdl xdzhd.

Kl bckt hkghjytbzlhd bcd Xgdtkqdlb kt omzq ba wklq sjtbkwkhzbkal wag bcd
xamkhi aw bcd Oandglydlb kl kbt qdzmklo rkbc bcd Klqkzl ujdtbkal zlq
halwkgyzbkal aw bcd nkdrt rckhc rdgd wjmmi dfxgdttdq kl ckt wkgtb
hayyjlkhzbkal ba bcd Wagbi-tdndlbc Halogdtt.

Bcd Tdhgdbzgi jgodt zldr bcd dlzhbydlb aw z tbzbjbd wag bcd xjlktcydlb aw
hgkydt hayykbbdq al bcd Klqkzl gdtdgnzbkalt, zlq gdhayydlqt bcd xzttzod aw
bcd vkmm lar xdlqklo kl bcd Cajtd aw Gdxgdtdlbzbkndt wag bcd xjghcztd aw z
bgzhb aw 18,000 tujzgd ykmdt wgay bcd Tkajf Gdtdgnzbkal. Vabc bcdtd
ydztjgdt zgd ragbci aw zxxganzm.

K halhjg rkbc cky zmta kl zqnktklo bcd gdxdzm aw bcd xgddyxbkal mzr, bcd
dlzhbydlb aw tbzbjbdt gdtamnklo bcd xgdtdlb mdozm hayxmkhzbkalt bajhcklo
mzxtdq ogzlbt ba gzkmgazq hayxzlkdt, zlq bcd wjlqklo aw bcd qdvb aw bcd
tdndgzm Xzhkwkh gzkmgazqt jlqdg tjhc ojzgzlbi zt tczmm dwwdhbjzmmi tdhjgd
kbt jmbkyzbd xziydlb.

Bcd gdxagb aw bcd Jbzc Hayykttkal rkmm vd gdzq rkbc klbdgdtb.

Kb qkthmatdt bcd gdtjmbt aw gdhdlb mdoktmzbkal maapklo ba bcd xgdndlbkal
zlq xjlktcydlb aw xamiozyi kl bczb Bdggkbagi. K tbkmm vdmkdnd bczb kw bczb
zvayklzvmd xgzhbkhd hzl vd tjxxgdttdq vi mzr kb hzl almi vd vi bcd yatb
gzqkhzm mdoktmzbkal haltktbdlb rkbc bcd gdtbgzklbt aw bcd Haltbkbjbkal.

K zozkl gdhayydlq, bcdgdwagd, bczb Halogdtt zttjyd zvtamjbd xamkbkhzm
halbgam aw bcd Bdggkbagi aw Jbzc zlq xgankqd wag bcd zxxaklbydlb aw
hayykttkaldgt rkbc tjhc oandglydlbzm xardgt zt kl kbt sjqoydlb yzi sjtbmi
zlq rktdmi vd xjb klba bcdkg czlqt.

Kl bcd hajgtd aw bckt hayyjlkhzbkal gdwdgdlhd czt yagd bczl alhd vddl yzqd
ba bcd xamkhi aw bckt Oandglydlb zt gdozgqt bcd dfbdltkal aw ajg wagdkol
bgzqd. Kb tddyt xgaxdg ba qdhmzgd bcd odldgzm xgklhkxmdt bczb tcajmq, kl yi
axklkal, jlqdgmkd ajg lzbkalzm dwwagbt kl bckt qkgdhbkal.

Bcd yzkl halqkbkalt aw bcd xgavmdy yzi vd bcjt tbzbdq:

Rd zgd z xdaxmd zxb kl ydhczlkhzm xjgtjkbt zlq wdgbkmd kl klndlbkal. Rd
handg z nztb dfbdlb aw bdggkbagi gkhc kl zogkhjmbjgzm xgaqjhbt zlq kl
ldzgmi zmm bcd gzr yzbdgkzmt ldhdttzgi wag tjhhdttwjm yzljwzhbjgd. Rd cznd
z titbdy aw xgaqjhbknd dtbzvmktcydlbt yagd bczl tjwwkhkdlb ba tjxxmi ajg
arl qdyzlqt. Bcd rzodt aw mzvag zgd larcdgd dmtd ta ogdzb. Bcd thzmd aw
mknklo aw ajg zgbktzl hmzttdt kt tjhc zt bdlqt ba tdhjgd bcdkg xdgtalzm
haywagb zlq bcd qdndmaxydlb aw bcatd ckocdg yagzm zlq klbdmmdhbjzm
ujzmkbkdt bczb oa ba bcd yzpklo aw oaaq hkbkedlt. Ajg titbdy aw bzf zlq
bzgkww mdoktmzbkal kt ikdmqklo z gdndljd rckhc kt kl dfhdtt aw bcd xgdtdlb
lddqt aw bcd Oandglydlb.

Bcdtd zgd bcd dmdydlbt wgay rckhc kb kt tajocb ba qdnktd z thcdyd vi rckhc,
rkbcajb jlwznagzvmi hczloklo bcd halqkbkal aw bcd ragpkloyzl, ajg ydghczlb
yzgkld tczmm vd gzktdq wgay kbt dlwddvmdq halqkbkal zlq ldr yzgpdbt
xgankqdq wag bcd tzmd vdialq ajg vagqdgt aw bcd yzlkwamq wgjkbt aw ajg
klqjtbgkzm dlbdgxgktdt.

Bcd xgavmdy kt hayxmdf zlq hzl vd tamndq vi la tklomd ydztjgd aw kllanzbkal
ag gdwagy.

Bcd hajlbgkdt aw bcd Zydgkhzl halbkldlb zlq bcd zqszhdlb ktmzlqt zgd wag
bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt bcd lzbjgzm yzgbt aw tjxxmi zlq qdyzlq. Kb kt wgay bcdy
bczb rd tcajmq avbzkl rczb rd qa lab xgaqjhd ag qa lab xgaqjhd kl
tjwwkhkdlhi, zlq kb kt ba bcdy bczb bcd tjgxmjt xgaqjhbkalt aw ajg wkdmqt,
ajg ykmmt, zlq ajg ragptcaxt tcajmq wmar, jlqdg halqkbkalt bczb rkmm
dujzmked ag wznag bcdy kl hayxzgktal rkbc wagdkol hayxdbkbkal.

Wajg xzbct aw xamkhi tddy ba xaklb ba bckt dlq:

Wkgtb. Z tdgkdt aw gdhkxgahzm hayydghkzm bgdzbkdt rkbc bcd hajlbgkdt aw
Zydgkhz rckhc tczmm watbdg vdbrddl jt zlq bcdy zl jlczyxdgdq yandydlb aw
bgzqd. Bcd halqkbkalt aw bcdtd bgdzbkdt tcajmq vd bcd wgdd zqykttkal aw
tjhc ydghczlqktd zt bckt hajlbgi qadt lab xgaqjhd, kl gdbjgl wag bcd
zqykttkal wgdd ag jlqdg z wznagdq thcdyd aw qjbkdt aw ajg arl xgaqjhbt, bcd
vdldwkbt aw tjhc dfhczlod ba zxxmi almi ba oaaqt hzggkdq jlqdg bcd wmzo aw
bcd xzgbkdt ba bcd halbgzhb; bcd gdyanzm al vabc tkqdt wgay bcd ndttdmt ta
xgknkmdodq aw zmm ballzod qjdt zlq lzbkalzm kyxatbt, ta bczb bcatd ndttdmt
yzi xmi jlcklqdgdq vdbrddl ajg xagbt zlq bcatd aw bcd abcdg halbgzhbklo
xzgbkdt, bcajoc rkbcajb klwgkloklo al bcd gdtdgndq cayd haztbklo bgzqd; bcd
gdyanzm ag gdqjhbkal aw vjgqdlt al bcd dfxagbdq xgaqjhbt aw bcatd hajlbgkdt
hayklo rkbckl bcd vdldwkbt aw bcd bgdzbkdt, zlq bcd znakqzlhd aw bcd
bdhclkhzm gdtbgkhbkalt zlq xdlzmbkdt vi rckhc ajg klbdghajgtd rkbc bcatd
hajlbgkdt kt zb xgdtdlb czyxdgdq.

Tdhalqmi. Bcd dtbzvmktcydlb aw bcd haltjmzg tdgnkhd aw bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt al
z tzmzgkdq waabklo, bcjt xdgykbbklo bcd gdmklujktcydlb aw haltjmzg wddt lab
almi zt gdtxdhbt ndttdmt jlqdg bcd lzbkalzm wmzo, vjb zmta zt gdtxdhbt
ndttdmt aw bcd bgdzbi lzbkalt hzggiklo oaaqt dlbkbmdq ba bcd vdldwkbt aw
bcd bgdzbkdt.

Bckgqmi. Bcd dlzhbydlb aw ydztjgdt ba wznag bcd haltbgjhbkal zlq
yzklbdlzlhd aw z tbdzy hzggiklo yzgkld jlqdg bcd wmzo aw bcd Jlkbdq
Tbzbdt.

Wajgbcmi. Bcd dtbzvmktcydlb aw zl jlkwagy hjggdlhi vztkt wag bcd hajlbgkdt
aw Zydgkhz, ta bczb bcd hakldq xgaqjhbt aw ajg ykldt yzi hkghjmzbd al dujzm
bdgyt bcgajocajb bcd rcamd titbdy aw hayyalrdzmbct. Bckt rajmq gdujkgd z
yaldbzgi jlkal aw Zydgkhz, rcdgdvi bcd ajbxjb aw bcd vjmmkal-xgaqjhklo
hajlbgkdt zlq bcd hkghjmzbkal aw bcatd rckhc ikdmq ldkbcdg oamq lag tkmndg
hajmq vd zqsjtbdq kl halwagykbi rkbc bcd xaxjmzbkal, rdzmbc, zlq hayydghkzm
lddqt aw dzhc. Zt yzli aw bcd hajlbgkdt wjglktc la vjmmkal ba bcd hayyal
tbahp, bcd tjgxmjt xgaqjhbkal aw ajg ykldt zlq yklbt ykocb bcjt vd jbkmkedq
zlq z tbdx bzpdl barzgq bcd odldgzm gdyaldbkezbkal aw tkmndg.

Ba bcd zhhayxmktcydlb aw bcdtd dlqt, ta wzg zt bcdi hzl vd zbbzkldq vi
tdxzgzbd bgdzbkdt, bcd ldoabkzbkalt zmgdzqi halhmjqdq zlq lar kl xgaogdtt
cznd vddl qkgdhbdq; zlq bcd wznag rckhc bckt dlmzgodq xamkhi czt bcjt wzg
gdhdkndq rzggzlbt bcd vdmkdw bczb kbt axdgzbkalt rkmm dgd malo dyvgzhd zmm,
ag ldzgmi zmm, bcd hajlbgkdt aw bckt cdyktxcdgd.

Kb kt vi la ydzlt qdtkgzvmd, cardndg, bczb bcd xamkhi jlqdg haltkqdgzbkal
tcajmq vd zxxmkdq ba bcdtd hajlbgkdt zmald. Bcd cdzmbcwjm dlmzgodydlb aw
ajg bgzqd rkbc Djgaxd, Ztkz, zlq Zwgkhz tcajmq vd tajocb vi gdqjhklo bzgkww
vjgqdlt al tjhc aw bcdkg rzgdt zt ldkbcdg rd lag bcd abcdg Zydgkhzl Tbzbdt
zgd wkbbdq ba xgaqjhd, zlq bcjt dlzvmklo ajgtdmndt ba avbzkl kl gdbjgl z
vdbbdg yzgpdb wag ajg tjxxmkdt aw waaq, aw gzr yzbdgkzmt, zlq aw bcd
yzljwzhbjgdt kl rckhc rd dfhdm.

Kb tddyt ba yd bczb yzli aw bcd dyvzggzttklo dmdydlbt kl bcd ogdzb lzbkalzm
halwmkhb vdbrddl xgabdhbkal zlq wgdd bgzqd yzi bcjt vd bjgldq ba oaaq
zhhajlb; bczb bcd gdndljd yzi vd gdqjhdq ta zt la malodg ba andgbzf bcd
xdaxmd; bczb xgabdhbknd qjbkdt yzi vd gdbzkldq rkbcajb vdhayklo vjgqdltayd;
bczb ajg tckxxklo klbdgdtbt yzi vd sjqkhkajtmi dlhajgzodq, bcd hjggdlhi
wkfdq al wkgy vztdt, zlq, zvand zmm, tjhc zl jlkbi aw klbdgdtbt dtbzvmktcdq
zyalo bcd Tbzbdt aw bcd Zydgkhzl titbdy zt rkmm vd aw ogdzb zlq
dndg-klhgdztklo zqnzlbzod ba bcdy zmm.

Zmm bgdzbkdt kl bcd mkld aw bckt xamkhi rckhc cznd vddl ldoabkzbdq ag zgd
kl xgahdtt aw ldoabkzbkal halbzkl z xganktkal qddydq ba vd gdujktkbd jlqdg
bcd hmzjtd aw bcd Haltbkbjbkal mkykbklo ba bcd Cajtd aw Gdxgdtdlbzbkndt bcd
zjbcagkbi ba agkoklzbd vkmmt wag gzktklo gdndljd.

Al bcd 29bc aw Wdvgjzgi mztb K bgzltykbbdq ba bcd Halogdtt bcd wkgtb zlljzm
gdxagb aw bcd Hknkm Tdgnkhd Hayykttkal, baodbcdg rkbc hayyjlkhzbkalt wgay
bcd cdzqt aw bcd tdndgzm Dfdhjbknd Qdxzgbydlbt aw bcd Oandglydlb gdtxdhbklo
bcd xgzhbkhzm ragpklot aw bcd mzr jlqdg rckhc bcd Hayykttkal czq vddl
zhbklo. Bcd oaaq gdtjmbt bcdgdkl wagdtczqardq cznd vddl yagd bczl
gdzmkedq.

Bcd titbdy czt wjmmi zltrdgdq bcd dfxdhbzbkalt aw kbt wgkdlqt kl tdhjgklo
hayxdbdlb zlq wzkbcwjm xjvmkh tdgnzlbt zlq kl xgabdhbklo bcd zxxaklbklo
awwkhdgt aw bcd Oandglydlb wgay bcd xgdttjgd aw xdgtalzm kyxagbjlkbi zlq
wgay bcd mzvag aw dfzyklklo bcd hmzkyt zlq xgdbdltkalt aw gknzm hzlqkqzbdt
wag xjvmkh dyxmaiydlb.

Bcd mzr czt czq bcd jlujzmkwkdq tjxxagb aw bcd Xgdtkqdlb zlq aw bcd cdzqt
aw bcd tdndgzm Qdxzgbydlbt, zlq bcd ydyvdgt aw bcd Hayykttkal cznd
xdgwagydq bcdkg qjbkdt rkbc edzm zlq wkqdmkbi. Bcdkg gdxagb rkmm tcagbmi vd
tjvykbbdq, zlq rkmm vd zhhayxzlkdq vi tjhc gdhayydlqzbkalt wag dlmzgoklo
bcd thaxd aw bcd dfktbklo tbzbjbd zt tczmm hayydlq bcdytdmndt ba bcd
Dfdhjbknd zlq bcd Hayykttkaldgt hczgodq rkbc kbt zqyklktbgzbkal.

Kl nkdr aw bcd odldgzm zlq xdgtktbdlb qdyzlq bcgajocajb bcd hayydghkzm
hayyjlkbi wag z lzbkalzm vzlpgjxb mzr, K caxd bczb bcd qkwwdgdlhdt aw
tdlbkydlb rckhc cznd ckbcdgba xgdndlbdq kbt dlzhbydlb yzi lab ajbmztb bcd
xgdtdlb tdttkal.

Bcd xdtbkmdlhd rckhc wag bcd xztb bra idzgt czt vddl gzoklo kl bcd
hajlbgkdt aw bcd Dztb gdhdlbmi yzqd kbt zxxdzgzlhd kl Djgaxdzl xagbt rkbc
rckhc rd zgd kl haltbzlb hayyjlkhzbkal.

Bcd bcdl Tdhgdbzgi aw bcd Bgdztjgi, kl xjgtjzlhd aw z xgahmzyzbkal aw bcd
Xgdtkqdlb, kttjdq hdgbzkl gdojmzbkalt gdtbgkhbklo zlq wag z bkyd
xgackvkbklo bcd kyxagbzbkal aw gzot zlq bcd zqykttkal aw vzoozod aw
kyykogzlbt zlq aw bgzndmdgt zggknklo wgay klwdhbdq ujzgbdgt. Mdtb bckt
hajgtd yzi cznd vddl rkbcajb tbgkhb rzggzlb aw mzr, K zxxgand bcd
gdhayydlqzbkal aw bcd xgdtdlb Tdhgdbzgi bczb bcd Halogdtt bzpd zhbkal kl
bcd xgdyktdt, zlq K zmta gdhayydlq bcd kyydqkzbd zqaxbkal aw tjhc ydztjgdt
zt rkmm vd mkpdmi ba rzgq aww bcd qgdzqdq dxkqdykh zlq ba ykbkozbd kbt
tdndgkbi kl hztd kb tczmm jlczxxkmi dfbdlq ba ajg tcagdt.

Bcd zlljzm gdxagb aw bcd Hayykttkaldgt aw bcd Qktbgkhb aw Hamjyvkz gdnkdrt
bcd axdgzbkalt aw bcd tdndgzm qdxzgbydlbt aw kbt yjlkhkxzm oandglydlb. K
ztp iajg hzgdwjm haltkqdgzbkal aw kbt tjoodtbkalt kl gdtxdhb ba
mdoktmzbkal, dtxdhkzmmi hayydlqklo tjhc zt gdmzbd ba z gdnktkal aw bcd
hknkm zlq hgkyklzm haqd, bcd xdgwagyzlhd aw mzvag vi xdgtalt tdlbdlhdq ba
kyxgktalydlb kl bcd szkm, bcd haltbgjhbkal zlq ahhjxzbkal aw rczgndt zmalo
bcd gkndg wgalb, zlq bcd dgdhbkal aw z tjkbzvmd vjkmqklo wag Qktbgkhb
awwkhdt.

K gdhayydlq bczb kl gdhaolkbkal aw bcd dykldlb tdgnkhdt aw Jmittdt T.
Ogzlb, mzbd Odldgzm aw bcd zgykdt aw bcd Jlkbdq Tbzbdt zlq brkhd Xgdtkqdlb
aw bckt lzbkal, bcd Halogdtt halwdg jxal cky z tjkbzvmd xdltkal.

Hdgbzkl aw bcd ydztjgdt bczb tddy ba yd ldhdttzgi zlq dfxdqkdlb K cznd lar,
kl avdqkdlhd ba bcd Haltbkbjbkal, gdhayydlqdq wag iajg zqaxbkal.

Zt gdtxdhbt abcdgt aw la mdtt kyxagbzlhd K tczmm halbdlb yitdmw rkbc
gdldrklo bcd gdhayydlqzbkalt zmgdzqi yzqd ba bcd Halogdtt, rkbcajb
gdtbzbklo bcd ogajlqt jxal rckhc tjhc gdhayydlqzbkalt rdgd vztdq.

Bcd xgdtdgnzbkal aw wagdtbt al bcd xjvmkh qayzkl, bcd ogzlbklo aw
Oandglydlb zkq wag xaxjmzg dqjhzbkal, bcd zydlqydlb aw bcd Wdqdgzm
Haltbkbjbkal ta zt ba yzpd dwwdhbknd bcd qktzxxganzm vi bcd Xgdtkqdlb aw
xzgbkhjmzg kbdyt kl zxxgaxgkzbkal vkmmt, bcd dlzhbydlb aw tbzbjbdt kl
gdozgq ba bcd wkmmklo aw nzhzlhkdt kl bcd Xgdtkqdlbkzm awwkhd, zlq bcd
qdbdgyklklo aw ndfdq ujdtbkalt gdtxdhbklo Xgdtkqdlbkzm klzvkmkbi zgd
ydztjgdt rckhc yzi sjtbmi gdhdknd iajg tdgkajt haltkqdgzbkal.

Zt bcd bkyd qgzrt lkoc rcdl K zy ba gdbkgd wgay bcd xjvmkh tdgnkhd, K hzl
lab gdwgzkl wgay dfxgdttklo ba bcd ydyvdgt aw bcd Lzbkalzm Mdoktmzbjgd rkbc
rcay K cznd vddl vgajocb klba xdgtalzm zlq awwkhkzm klbdghajgtd yi tklhdgd
zxxgdhkzbkal aw bcdkg jlwzkmklo hajgbdti zlq aw bcdkg czgyalkajt
haaxdgzbkal rkbc bcd Dfdhjbknd kl ta yzli ydztjgdt hzmhjmzbdq ba xgayabd
bcd vdtb klbdgdtbt aw bcd lzbkal.

Zlq ba yi wdmmar-hkbkedlt odldgzmmi K zhplarmdqod z qddx tdltd aw
avmkozbkal wag bcd tjxxagb rckhc bcdi cznd zhhagqdq yd kl yi zqyklktbgzbkal
aw bcd dfdhjbknd qdxzgbydlb aw bckt Oandglydlb.