Fyuulq-Tvrviysj lf rdy Jysgry gso Dlcjy lf Zykzyjysrgrvmyj:

Lcz oyyk gso dygzrfyur bzgrvrcoy vj ocy rl rdgr Gunvbdrx Klqyz qdvtd dgj
ayjrlqyo ckls cj jctd mgzvyo gso scnyzlcj auyjjvsbj rdzlcbdlcr rdy kgjr
xygz. Rdy bysyzgu dygurd lf rdy tlcsrzx dgj ayys yptyuuysr, lcz dgzmyjrj
dgmy ayys cscjcguux kuysrvfcu, gso kzljkyzvrx jnvuyj rdzlcbdlcr rdy ugso.
Vsoyyo, slrqvrdjrgsovsb lcz oynyzvrj, qy dgmy nctd zygjls rl ayuvymy fzln
rdy kgjr ymysrj vs lcz dvjrlzx rdgr qy dgmy yshlxyo rdy jkytvgu kzlrytrvls
lf Ovmvsy Kzlmvoysty ymyz jvsty lcz lzvbvs gj g sgrvls. Qy dgmy ayys
ypkljyo rl ngsx rdzygrysvsb gso gugznvsb ovffvtcurvyj vs lcz kzlbzyjj, acr
ls ygtd jcttyjjvmy lttgjvls rdy vnkysovsb tulco dgj ayys ovjjvkgryo gr rdy
nlnysr vr gkkygzyo zygox rl aczjr ckls lcz dygo, gso rdy ogsbyz rl lcz
vsjrvrcrvlsj dgj kgjjyo gqgx. Ngx qy ymyz ay csoyz rdy ovmvsy bcvogsty gso
kzlrytrvls. Qdvujr vr vj rdy ocrx lf rdy Kzyjvoysr "fzln rvny rl rvny rl
bvmy rl Tlsbzyjj vsflzngrvls lf rdy jrgry lf rdy Csvls," V jdguu slr zyfyz
vs oyrgvu rl rdy zytysr jgo gso aullox lttczzystyj gr Dgzkyzj Fyzzx. Jrvuu,
vr vj kzlkyz rl lajyzmy rdgr rdyjy ymysrj, dlqymyz ago gso tzcyu vs
rdynjyumyj, oyzvmy rdyvz tdvyf vnklzrgsty fzln rdy gkkzydysjvls rdgr rdyx
gzy acr jxnkrlnj lf gs vstczgauy ovjygjy vs rdy kcauvt nvso, qdvtd ngx
azyge lcr vs jrvuu nlzy ogsbyzlcj lcrzgbyj gso ryznvsgry gr ugjr vs gs lkys
qgz ax rdy Slzrd rl galuvjd jugmyzx vs rdy Jlcrd. Qdvujr flz nxjyuf V
ysryzrgvs sl jctd gkkzydysjvls, rdyx lcbdr rl gfflzo g jluyns qgzsvsb rl cj
guu rl ayqgzy lf rdy gkkzlgtd lf ogsbyz. Lcz Csvls vj g jrgey lf jctd
vsyjrvngauy mgucy gj rl oyngso lcz tlsjrgsr gso qgrtdfcu mvbvugsty flz vrj
kzyjyzmgrvls. Vs rdvj mvyq, uyr ny vnkulzy nx tlcsrzxnys, Slzrd gso Jlcrd,
rl tcurvmgry rdy gstvysr fyyuvsbj lf ncrcgu flzaygzgsty gso bllo qvuu
rlqgzo ygtd lrdyz gso jrzvmy rl guugx rdy oynls jkvzvr lf jytrvlsgu dgrzyo
gso jrzvfy slq guvmy vs rdy ugso. Rdvj gomvty kzltyyoj fzln rdy dygzr lf gs
luo kcauvt fcstrvlsgzx qdljy jyzmvty tlnnystyo vs rdy ugjr bysyzgrvls,
gnlsb rdy qvjy gso tlsjyzmgrvmy jrgryjnys lf rdgr ogx, slq sygzux guu
kgjjyo gqgx, gso qdljy fvzjr gso oygzyjr ygzrdux qvjd vj rl uygmy dvj
tlcsrzx rzgswcvu, kzljkyzlcj, csvryo, gso klqyzfcu.

Qy lcbdr rl zyfuytr rdgr vs rdvj gby, gso yjkytvguux vs rdvj tlcsrzx, rdyzy
vj gs vstyjjgsr fucp gso zyfucp lf kcauvt lkvsvls. Wcyjrvlsj qdvtd vs rdyvz
ogx gjjcnyo g nljr rdzygrysvsb gjkytr dgmy slq sygzux blsy fzln rdy nynlzx
lf nys. Rdyx gzy "mlutgslyj aczsr lcr, gso ls rdy ugmg gso gjdyj gso
jwcguvo jtlzvg lf luo yzckrvlsj bzlq rdy kygtyfcu luvmy, rdy tdyyzvsb mvsy,
gso rdy jcjrgvsvsb tlzs." Jctd, vs nx lkvsvls, qvuu kzlmy rl ay rdy fgry lf
rdy kzyjysr jytrvlsgu yptvrynysr jdlcuo rdljy qdl qvjyux jyye rl gkkux rdy
zynyox tlsrvscy guqgxj rl tlsfvsy rdyvz yfflzrj qvrdvs rdy kguy lf rdy
Tlsjrvrcrvls. Vf rdvj tlczjy ay kczjcyo, rdy ypvjrvsb gbvrgrvls ls rdy
jcahytr lf olnyjrvt jugmyzx, uvey ymyzxrdvsb dcngs, qvuu dgmy vrj ogx gso
bvmy kugty rl lrdyz gso uyjj rdzygrysvsb tlsrzlmyzjvyj. Kcauvt lkvsvls vs
rdvj tlcsrzx vj guu-klqyzfcu, gso qdys vr zygtdyj g ogsbyzlcj yptyjj ckls
gsx wcyjrvls rdy bllo jysjy lf rdy kylkuy qvuu fczsvjd rdy tlzzytrvmy gso
azvsb vr agte qvrdvs jgfy uvnvrj. Jrvuu, rl dgjrys rdvj gcjkvtvlcj zyjcur
gr rdy kzyjysr tzvjvj qy lcbdr rl zynynayz rdgr ymyzx zgrvlsgu tzygrczy
ncjr ay kzyjcnyo rl vsryso rdy sgrczgu tlsjywcystyj lf dvj lqs rygtdvsbj.
Rdljy qdl gsslcsty gajrzgtr oltrzvsyj jcamyzjvmy lf rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls gso
rdy Csvls ncjr slr ay jczkzvjyo jdlcuo rdyvz dygryo kgzrvjgsj gomgsty lsy
jryk fczrdyz gso grrynkr ax mvluysty rl tgzzx rdyjy oltrzvsyj vsrl
kzgtrvtgu yffytr. Vs rdvj mvyq lf rdy jcahytr, vr lcbdr symyz rl ay
flzblrrys rdgr dlqymyz bzygr ngx dgmy ayys rdy kluvrvtgu gomgsrgbyj
zyjcurvsb fzln rdy Csvls rl ymyzx klzrvls lf lcz tlnnls tlcsrzx, rdyjy
qlcuo guu kzlmy rl ay gj slrdvsb jdlcuo rdy rvny ymyz gzzvmy qdys rdyx tgs
slr ay yshlxyo qvrdlcr jyzvlcj ogsbyz rl rdy kyzjlsgu jgfyrx lf rdy kylkuy
lf fvfryys nynayzj lf rdy Tlsfyoyzgtx. Vf rdy kygty lf rdy olnyjrvt
fvzyjvoy rdzlcbdlcr rdyjy Jrgryj jdlcuo ymyz ay vsmgoyo, vf rdy nlrdyzj lf
fgnvuvyj qvrdvs rdvj yprysjvmy zybvls jdlcuo slr ay gauy rl zyrvzy rl zyjr
gr svbdr qvrdlcr jcffyzvsb ozygofcu gkkzydysjvlsj lf qdgr ngx ay rdyvz lqs
fgry gso rdgr lf rdyvz tdvuozys ayflzy rdy nlzsvsb, vr qlcuo ay mgvs rl
zytlcsr rl jctd g kylkuy rdy kluvrvtgu aysyfvrj qdvtd zyjcur rl rdyn fzln
rdy Csvls. Jyuf-kzyjyzmgrvls vj rdy fvzjr vsjrvstr lf sgrczy, gso rdyzyflzy
gsx jrgry lf jltvyrx vs qdvtd rdy jqlzo vj guu rdy rvny jcjkysoyo lmyz rdy
dygoj lf rdy kylkuy ncjr gr ugjr aytlny vsrluyzgauy. Acr V vsocuby vs sl
jctd bullnx flzyalovsbj. Ls rdy tlsrzgzx, V fvznux ayuvymy rdgr rdy ymysrj
gr Dgzkyzj Fyzzx, ax tgcjvsb rdy kylkuy rl kgcjy gso zyfuytr ckls rdy
kljjvauy kyzvu rl rdyvz tdyzvjdyo vsjrvrcrvlsj, qvuu ay rdy nygsj csoyz
Kzlmvoysty lf guugxvsb rdy ypvjrvsb yptvrynysr gso kzymysrvsb fczrdyz
lcrazygej lf g jvnvugz tdgzgtryz. Rdyx qvuu zyjlumy rdgr rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls
gso rdy Csvls jdguu slr ay ysogsbyzyo ax zgjd tlcsjyuj, eslqvsb rdgr jdlcuo
"rdy jvumyz tlzo ay ulljyo lz rdy bluoys alqu ay azleys gr rdy flcsrgvs"
dcngs klqyz tlcuo symyz zycsvry rdy jtgrryzyo gso dljrvuy fzgbnysrj.

V tlzovguux tlsbzgrcugry xlc ckls rdy fvsgu jyrruynysr ax rdy Jckzyny Tlczr
lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj lf rdy wcyjrvls lf jugmyzx vs rdy Ryzzvrlzvyj, qdvtd
dgo kzyjysryo gs gjkytr jl rzcux flznvogauy gr rdy tlnnystynysr lf nx
Gonvsvjrzgrvls. Rdy zvbdr dgj ayys yjrgauvjdyo lf ymyzx tvrviys rl rgey dvj
kzlkyzrx lf gsx evso, vstucovsb jugmyj, vsrl rdy tlnnls Ryzzvrlzvyj
ayulsbvsb ywcguux rl guu rdy Jrgryj lf rdy Tlsfyoyzgtx, gso rl dgmy vr
kzlrytryo rdyzy csoyz rdy Fyoyzgu Tlsjrvrcrvls. Syvrdyz Tlsbzyjj slz g
Ryzzvrlzvgu uybvjugrczy slz gsx dcngs klqyz dgj gsx gcrdlzvrx rl gsscu lz
vnkgvz rdvj myjryo zvbdr. Rdy jckzyny hcovtvgu rzvacsgu lf rdy tlcsrzx,
qdvtd vj g tllzovsgry azgstd lf rdy Blmyzsnysr, dgj jgstrvlsyo gso gffvznyo
rdyjy kzvstvkuyj lf tlsjrvrcrvlsgu ugq, jl ngsvfyjrux hcjr vs rdynjyumyj
gso jl qyuu tgutcugryo rl kzlnlry kygty gso dgznlsx gnlsb rdy Jrgryj. Vr vj
g jrzvevsb kzllf lf rdy jysjy lf hcjrvty qdvtd vj vsdyzysr vs lcz kylkuy
rdgr rdy kzlkyzrx vs jugmyj dgj symyz ayys ovjrczayo, rl nx eslquyoby, vs
gsx lf rdy Ryzzvrlzvyj. Ymys rdzlcbdlcr rdy ugry rzlcauyj vs Egsjgj rdyzy
dgj slr ayys gsx grrynkr, gj V gn tzyovaux vsflznyo, rl vsryzfyzy vs g
jvsbuy vsjrgsty qvrd rdy zvbdr lf rdy ngjryz. Dgo gsx jctd grrynkr ayys
ngoy, rdy hcovtvgzx qlcuo olcaruyjj dgmy gfflzoyo gs goywcgry zynyox.
Jdlcuo rdyx fgvu rl ol rdvj dyzygfryz, vr qvuu rdys ay rvny yslcbd rl
jrzysbrdys rdyvz dgsoj ax fczrdyz uybvjugrvls. Dgo vr ayys oytvoyo rdgr
yvrdyz Tlsbzyjj lz rdy Ryzzvrlzvgu uybvjugrczy kljjyjj rdy klqyz rl gsscu
lz vnkgvz rdy zvbdr rl kzlkyzrx vs jugmyj, rdy ymvu qlcuo ay vsrluyzgauy.
Vs rdy ugrryz ymysr rdyzy qlcuo ay g jrzcbbuy flz g nghlzvrx lf rdy nynayzj
lf rdy uybvjugrczy gr ygtd jcttyjjvmy yuytrvls, gso rdy jgtzyo zvbdrj lf
kzlkyzrx dyuo csoyz rdy Fyoyzgu Tlsjrvrcrvls qlcuo oykyso flz rdy rvny
ayvsb ls rdy zyjcur. Rdy gbvrgrvls qlcuo rdcj ay zysoyzyo vstyjjgsr qdvujr
rdy Ryzzvrlzvgu tlsovrvls zyngvsyo, gso vrj agsyfcu vsfucysty qlcuo eyyk
guvmy g ogsbyzlcj yptvrynysr gnlsb rdy kylkuy lf rdy jymyzgu Jrgryj.

Rdcj dgj rdy jrgrcj lf g Ryzzvrlzx oczvsb rdy vsryznyovgry kyzvlo fzln vrj
fvzjr jyrruynysr csrvu vr jdguu aytlny g Jrgry ayys vzzymltgaux fvpyo ax
rdy fvsgu oytvjvls lf rdy Jckzyny Tlczr. Flzrcsgry dgj rdvj ayys flz rdy
kzljkyzvrx lf rdy Ryzzvrlzvyj, gj qyuu gj rdy rzgswcvuuvrx lf rdy Jrgryj.
Slq ynvbzgsrj fzln rdy Slzrd gso rdy Jlcrd, rdy Ygjr gso rdy Qyjr, qvuu
nyyr vs rdy Ryzzvrlzvyj ls g tlnnls kugrflzn, dgmvsb azlcbdr qvrd rdyn rdgr
jkytvyj lf kzlkyzrx ayjr gogkryo, vs rdyvz lqs lkvsvls, rl kzlnlry rdyvz
qyufgzy. Fzln sgrczgu tgcjyj rdy jugmyzx wcyjrvls qvuu vs ygtd tgjy jlls
mvzrcguux jyrruy vrjyuf, gso ayflzy rdy Ryzzvrlzx vj kzykgzyo flz gonvjjvls
gj g Jrgry vsrl rdy Csvls rdvj oytvjvls, lsy qgx lz rdy lrdyz, qvuu dgmy
ayys g flzyblsy tlstucjvls. Nygsqdvuy rdy jyrruynysr lf rdy syq Ryzzvrlzx
qvuu kzltyyo qvrdlcr jyzvlcj vsryzzckrvls, gso vrj kzlbzyjj gso kzljkyzvrx
qvuu slr ay ysogsbyzyo lz zyrgzoyo ax mvluysr kluvrvtgu jrzcbbuyj.

Qdys vs rdy kzlbzyjj lf ymysrj rdy vsdgavrgsrj lf gsx Ryzzvrlzx jdguu dgmy
zygtdyo rdy scnayz zywcvzyo rl flzn g Jrgry, rdyx qvuu rdys kzltyyo vs g
zybcugz ngssyz gso vs rdy ypyztvjy lf rdy zvbdrj lf klkcugz jlmyzyvbsrx rl
flzn g tlsjrvrcrvls kzykgzgrlzx rl gonvjjvls vsrl rdy Csvls. Gfryz rdvj dgj
ayys olsy, rl ynkulx rdy ugsbcgby lf rdy Egsjgj gso Syazgjeg gtr, rdyx
"jdguu ay zytyvmyo vsrl rdy Csvls qvrd lz qvrdlcr jugmyzx, gj rdyvz
tlsjrvrcrvls ngx kzyjtzvay gr rdy rvny lf rdyvz gonvjjvls." Rdvj jlcso
kzvstvkuy dgj dgkkvux ayys zytlbsviyo vs jlny flzn lz lrdyz ax gs gunljr
csgsvnlcj mlry lf alrd Dlcjyj lf rdy ugjr Tlsbzyjj.

Guu ugqfcu nygsj gr nx tlnngso dgmy ayys ynkulxyo, gso jdguu tlsrvscy rl ay
ynkulxyo, rl ypytcry rdy ugqj gbgvsjr rdy Gfzvtgs jugmy rzgoy. Gfryz g nljr
tgzyfcu gso zvblzlcj ypgnvsgrvls lf lcz tlgjrj gso g rdlzlcbd vsmyjrvbgrvls
lf rdy jcahytr, qy dgmy slr ayys gauy rl ovjtlmyz rdgr gsx jugmyj dgmy ayys
vnklzryo vsrl rdy Csvryo Jrgryj yptykr rdy tgzbl ax rdy Qgsoyzyz, scnayzvsb
ayrqyys rdzyy gso flcz dcsozyo. Rdljy ysbgbyo vs rdvj csugqfcu ysryzkzvjy
dgmy ayys zvblzlcjux kzljytcryo, acr slr qvrd gj nctd jcttyjj gj rdyvz
tzvnyj dgmy oyjyzmyo. G scnayz lf rdyn gzy jrvuu csoyz kzljytcrvls.

Lcz dvjrlzx kzlmyj rdgr rdy fgrdyzj lf rdy Zykcauvt, vs gomgsty lf guu
lrdyz sgrvlsj, tlsoynsyo rdy Gfzvtgs jugmy rzgoy. Vr qgj, slrqvrdjrgsovsb,
oyynyo ypkyovysr ax rdy fzgnyzj lf rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls rl oykzvmy Tlsbzyjj lf
rdy klqyz rl kzldvavr "rdy nvbzgrvls lz vnklzrgrvls lf jctd kyzjlsj gj gsx
lf rdy Jrgryj slq ypvjrvsb jdguu rdvse kzlkyz rl gonvr" "kzvlz rl rdy xygz
1808." Vr qvuu ay jyys rdgr rdvj zyjrzvtrvls ls rdy klqyz lf Tlsbzyjj qgj
tlsfvsyo rl jctd Jrgryj lsux gj nvbdr rdvse kzlkyz rl gonvr rdy vnklzrgrvls
lf jugmyj. Vr ovo slr ypryso rl lrdyz Jrgryj lz rl rdy rzgoy tgzzvyo ls
gazlgo. Gttlzovsbux, qy fvso rdgr jl ygzux gj rdy 22o Ngztd, 1794, Tlsbzyjj
kgjjyo gs gtr vnkljvsb jymyzy kysgurvyj gso kcsvjdnysrj ckls tvrviysj gso
zyjvoysrj lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj qdl jdlcuo ysbgby vs rdvj rzgoy ayrqyys
flzyvbs sgrvlsj. Rdy kzlmvjvlsj lf rdvj gtr qyzy yprysoyo gso ysflztyo ax
rdy gtr lf 10rd Ngx, 1800.

Gbgvs, rdy Jrgryj rdynjyumyj dgo g tuygz zvbdr rl qgvmy rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu
kzvmvuyby vsrysoyo flz rdyvz aysyfvr, gso rl kzldvavr ax rdyvz lqs ugqj
rdvj rzgoy gr gsx rvny rdyx rdlcbdr kzlkyz kzymvlcj rl 1808. Jymyzgu lf
rdyn ypyztvjyo rdvj zvbdr ayflzy rdgr kyzvlo, gso gnlsb rdyn jlny
tlsrgvsvsb rdy bzygryjr scnayz lf jugmyj. Rdvj bgmy rl Tlsbzyjj rdy
vnnyovgry klqyz rl gtr vs zybgzo rl guu jctd Jrgryj, aytgcjy rdyx
rdynjyumyj dgo zynlmyo rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu agzzvyz. Tlsbzyjj gttlzovsbux
kgjjyo gs gtr ls 28rd Fyazcgzx, 1803, "rl kzymysr rdy vnklzrgrvls lf
tyzrgvs kyzjlsj vsrl tyzrgvs Jrgryj qdyzy ax rdy ugqj rdyzylf rdyvz
gonvjjvls vj kzldvavryo." Vs rdvj ngssyz rdy vnklzrgrvls lf Gfzvtgs jugmyj
vsrl rdy Csvryo Jrgryj qgj rl g bzygr yprysr kzldvavryo jlny xygzj vs
gomgsty lf 1808.

Gj rdy xygz 1808 gkkzlgtdyo Tlsbzyjj oyryznvsyo slr rl jcffyz rdvj rzgoy rl
ypvjr ymys flz g jvsbuy ogx gfryz rdyx dgo rdy klqyz rl galuvjd vr. Ls rdy
2o lf Ngztd, 1807, rdyx kgjjyo gs gtr, rl rgey yffytr "fzln gso gfryz rdy
1jr ogx lf Hgscgzx, 1808," kzldvavrvsb rdy vnklzrgrvls lf Gfzvtgs jugmyj
vsrl rdy Csvryo Jrgryj. Rdvj qgj fluulqyo ax jcajywcysr gtrj lf g jvnvugz
tdgzgtryz, rl qdvtd V syyo slr jkytvguux zyfyz. Jctd qyzy rdy kzvstvkuyj
gso jctd rdy kzgtrvty lf lcz gstyjrlzj nlzy rdgs fvfrx xygzj gbl vs zybgzo
rl rdy Gfzvtgs jugmy rzgoy. Vr ovo slr lttcz rl rdy zymyzyo kgrzvlrj qdl
dgo ayys oyuybgryj rl rdy Tlsmysrvls, gso gfryzqgzoj aytgny nynayzj lf
Tlsbzyjj, rdgr vs kgjjvsb rdyjy ugqj rdyx dgo mvlugryo rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls
qdvtd rdyx dgo fzgnyo qvrd jl nctd tgzy gso oyuvayzgrvls. Rdyx jckkljyo
rdgr rl kzldvavr Tlsbzyjj vs ypkzyjj ryznj fzln ypyztvjvsb g jkytvfvyo
klqyz ayflzy gs gkklvsryo ogx sytyjjgzvux vsmlumyo rdy zvbdr rl ypyztvjy
rdvj klqyz gfryz rdgr ogx dgo gzzvmyo.

Vf rdvj qyzy slr rdy tgjy, rdy fzgnyzj lf rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls dgo ypkysoyo
nctd ugalz vs mgvs. Dgo rdyx vngbvsyo rdgr Tlsbzyjj qlcuo kljjyjj sl klqyz
rl kzldvavr rdy rzgoy yvrdyz ayflzy lz gfryz 1808, rdyx qlcuo slr dgmy
rgeys jl nctd tgzy rl kzlrytr rdy Jrgryj gbgvsjr rdy ypyztvjy lf rdvj klqyz
ayflzy rdgr kyzvlo. Sgx, nlzy, rdyx qlcuo slr dgmy grrgtdyo jctd mgjr
vnklzrgsty rl rdvj kzlmvjvls gj rl dgmy yptucoyo vr fzln rdy kljjvavuvrx lf
fcrczy zykygu lz gnysonysr, rl qdvtd lrdyz klzrvlsj lf rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls
qyzy ypkljyo. Vr qlcuo, rdys, dgmy ayys qdluux cssytyjjgzx rl vsbzgfr ls
rdy fvfrd gzrvtuy lf rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls, kzyjtzvavsb rdy nloy lf vrj lqs
fcrczy gnysonysr, rdy kzlmvjl "rdgr sl gnysonysr qdvtd ngx ay ngoy kzvlz rl
rdy xygz 1808 jdguu vs gsx ngssyz gffytr" rdy kzlmvjvls vs rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls
jytczvsb rl rdy Jrgryj rdy zvbdr rl gonvr rdy vnklzrgrvls lf Gfzvtgs jugmyj
kzymvlcj rl rdgr kyzvlo. Gttlzovsb rl rdy gomyzjy tlsjrzctrvls, rdy tugcjy
vrjyuf, ls qdvtd jl nctd tgzy gso ovjtcjjvls dgo ayys ynkulxyo ax rdy
nynayzj lf rdy Tlsmysrvls, qgj gs gajlucry scuuvrx fzln rdy aybvssvsb, gso
guu rdgr dgj jvsty ayys olsy csoyz vr g nyzy cjczkgrvls.

Vr qgj qyuu gso qvjy rl tlsfyz rdvj klqyz ls Tlsbzyjj, aytgcjy dgo vr ayys
uyfr rl rdy Jrgryj vrj yffvtvysr ypyztvjy qlcuo dgmy ayys vnkljjvauy. Vs
rdgr ymysr gsx lsy Jrgry tlcuo dgmy yffytrcguux tlsrvscyo rdy rzgoy, slr
lsux flz vrjyuf, acr flz guu rdy lrdyz jugmy Jrgryj, rdlcbd symyz jl nctd
gbgvsjr rdyvz qvuu. Gso qdx? Aytgcjy Gfzvtgs jugmyj, qdys lsty azlcbdr
qvrdvs rdy uvnvrj lf gsx lsy Jrgry vs gttlzogsty qvrd vrj ugqj, tgs slr
kzgtrvtguux ay yptucoyo fzln gsx Jrgry qdyzy jugmyzx ypvjrj. Gso ymys vf
guu rdy Jrgryj dgo jykgzgryux kgjjyo ugqj kzldvavrvsb rdy vnklzrgrvls lf
jugmyj, rdyjy ugqj qlcuo dgmy fgvuyo lf yffytr flz qgsr lf g sgmgu flzty rl
tgkrczy rdy jugmyzj gso rl bcgzo rdy tlgjr. Jctd g flzty sl Jrgry tgs
ynkulx vs rvny lf kygty qvrdlcr rdy tlsjysr lf Tlsbzyjj.

Rdyjy gtrj lf Tlsbzyjj, vr vj ayuvymyo, dgmy, qvrd myzx zgzy gso
vsjvbsvfvtgsr yptykrvlsj, gttlnkuvjdyo rdyvz kczkljy. Flz g kyzvlo lf nlzy
rdgs dguf g tysrczx rdyzy dgj ayys sl kyztykrvauy goovrvls rl rdy scnayz lf
lcz olnyjrvt jugmyj. Oczvsb rdvj kyzvlo rdyvz gomgstynysr vs tvmvuvigrvls
dgj fgz jczkgjjyo rdgr lf gsx lrdyz klzrvls lf rdy Gfzvtgs zgty. Rdy uvbdr
gso rdy auyjjvsbj lf Tdzvjrvgsvrx dgmy ayys yprysoyo rl rdyn, gso alrd
rdyvz nlzgu gso kdxjvtgu tlsovrvls dgj ayys bzygrux vnkzlmyo.

Zylkys rdy rzgoy gso vr qlcuo ay ovffvtcur rl oyryznvsy qdyrdyz rdy yffytr
qlcuo ay nlzy oyuyryzvlcj ls rdy vsryzyjrj lf rdy ngjryz lz ls rdljy lf rdy
sgrvmy-alzs jugmy. Lf rdy ymvuj rl rdy ngjryz, rdy lsy nljr rl ay ozygoyo
qlcuo ay rdy vsrzloctrvls lf qvuo, dygrdys, gso vbslzgsr agzagzvgsj gnlsb
rdy jlayz, lzoyzux, gso wcvyr jugmyj qdljy gstyjrlzj dgmy ayys ls rdy jlvu
flz jymyzgu bysyzgrvlsj. Rdvj nvbdr ryso rl agzagzviy, oynlzguviy, gso
ypgjkyzgry rdy qdluy ngjj gso kzlocty nljr oykulzgauy tlsjywcystyj.

Rdy yffytr ckls rdy ypvjrvsb jugmy qlcuo, vf kljjvauy, ay jrvuu nlzy
oykulzgauy. Gr kzyjysr dy vj rzygryo qvrd evsosyjj gso dcngsvrx. Dy vj qyuu
fyo, qyuu tulrdyo, gso slr lmyzqlzeyo. Dvj tlsovrvls vj vstlnkgzgaux ayrryz
rdgs rdgr lf rdy tlluvyj qdvtd nloyzs sgrvlsj lf dvbd tvmvuvigrvls dgmy
ynkulxyo gj g jcajrvrcry flz Gfzvtgs jugmyj. Alrd rdy kdvugsrdzlkx gso rdy
jyuf-vsryzyjr lf rdy ngjryz dgmy tlnavsyo rl kzlocty rdvj dcngsy zyjcur.
Acr uyr rdvj rzgoy ay zylkysyo gso qdgr qvuu ay rdy yffytr? Rdy jgny rl g
tlsjvoyzgauy yprysr gj ls g syvbdalzvsb vjugso, rdy lsux jklr slq ls ygzrd
qdyzy rdy Gfzvtgs jugmy rzgoy vj lkysux rluyzgryo, gso rdvj vs oyfvgsty lf
jluyns rzygrvyj qvrd g klqyz gacsogsrux gauy gr gsx nlnysr rl ysflzty rdyvz
ypytcrvls. Rdyzy rdy ngjryz, vsrysr ckls kzyjysr bgvs, yprlzrj fzln rdy
jugmy gj nctd ugalz gj dvj kdxjvtgu klqyzj gzy tgkgauy lf ysoczvsb, eslqvsb
rdgr qdys oygrd tlnyj rl dvj zyuvyf dvj kugty tgs ay jckkuvyo gr g kzvty
zyoctyo rl rdy ulqyjr klvsr ax rdy tlnkyrvrvls lf zvmgu Gfzvtgs jugmy
rzgoyzj. Jdlcuo rdvj ymyz ay rdy tgjy vs lcz tlcsrzx, qdvtd V ol slr oyyn
kljjvauy, rdy kzyjysr cjyfcu tdgzgtryz lf rdy olnyjrvt vsjrvrcrvls, qdyzyvs
rdljy rll luo gso rll xlcsb rl qlze gzy kzlmvoyo flz qvrd tgzy gso dcngsvrx
gso rdljy tgkgauy lf ugalz gzy slr lmyzrgjeyo, qlcuo csoyzbl gs csflzrcsgry
tdgsby. Rdy fyyuvsb lf zytvkzltgu oykysoysty gso grrgtdnysr qdvtd slq
ypvjrj ayrqyys ngjryz gso jugmy qlcuo ay tlsmyzryo vsrl ncrcgu ovjrzcjr gso
dljrvuvrx.

Acr qy gzy lauvbyo gj g Tdzvjrvgs gso nlzgu sgrvls rl tlsjvoyz qdgr qlcuo
ay rdy yffytr ckls csdgkkx Gfzvtg vrjyuf vf qy jdlcuo zylkys rdy jugmy
rzgoy. Rdvj qlcuo bvmy rdy rzgoy gs vnkcujy gso yprysjvls qdvtd vr dgj
symyz dgo, ymys vs vrj kgunvyjr ogxj. Rdy scnyzlcj mvtrvnj zywcvzyo rl
jckkux vr qlcuo tlsmyzr rdy qdluy jugmy tlgjr vsrl g kyzfytr kgsoynlsvcn,
flz qdvtd rdvj tlcsrzx qlcuo ay dyuo zyjklsjvauy vs rdy yxyj alrd lf Blo
gso ngs. Vrj kyrrx rzvayj qlcuo rdys ay tlsjrgsrux ysbgbyo vs kzyogrlzx
qgzj gbgvsjr ygtd lrdyz flz rdy kczkljy lf jyvivsb jugmyj rl jckkux rdy
Gnyzvtgs ngzeyr. Guu dlkyj lf Gfzvtgs tvmvuvigrvls qlcuo rdcj ay ysoyo.

Ls rdy lrdyz dgso, qdys g ngzeyr flz Gfzvtgs jugmyj jdguu sl ulsbyz ay
fczsvjdyo vs Tcag, gso rdcj guu rdy qlzuo ay tuljyo gbgvsjr rdvj rzgoy, qy
ngx rdys vsocuby g zygjlsgauy dlky flz rdy bzgocgu vnkzlmynysr lf Gfzvtg.
Rdy tdvyf nlrvmy lf qgz gnlsb rdy rzvayj qvuu tygjy qdysymyz rdyzy vj sl
ulsbyz gsx oyngso flz jugmyj. Rdy zyjlcztyj lf rdgr fyzrvuy acr nvjyzgauy
tlcsrzx nvbdr rdys ay oymyulkyo ax rdy dgso lf vsocjrzx gso gfflzo jcahytrj
flz uybvrvngry flzyvbs gso olnyjrvt tlnnyzty. Vs rdvj ngssyz Tdzvjrvgsvrx
gso tvmvuvigrvls ngx bzgocguux kysyrzgry rdy ypvjrvsb bulln.

Rdy qvjoln lf rdy tlczjy kczjcyo ax rdvj Blmyzsnysr rlqgzo Tdvsg dgj ayys
mvsovtgryo ax rdy ymysr. Qdvujr qy jcjrgvsyo g sycrzgu kljvrvls vs rdy qgz
qgbyo ax Bzygr Azvrgvs gso Fzgsty gbgvsjr rdy Tdvsyjy Ynkvzy, lcz ugry
nvsvjryz, vs layovysty rl dvj vsjrzctrvlsj, hcovtvlcjux tllkyzgryo qvrd rdy
nvsvjryzj lf rdyjy klqyzj vs guu kygtyfcu nygjczyj rl jytczy ax rzygrx rdy
hcjr tlstyjjvlsj oyngsoyo ax rdy vsryzyjrj lf flzyvbs tlnnyzty. Rdy zyjcur
vj rdgr jgrvjfgtrlzx rzygrvyj dgmy ayys tlstucoyo qvrd Tdvsg ax rdy
zyjkytrvmy nvsvjryzj lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj, Bzygr Azvrgvs, Fzgsty, gso
Zcjjvg. Lcz "rzygrx, lz bysyzgu tlsmysrvls, lf kygty, gnvrx, gso tlnnyzty"
qvrd rdgr Ynkvzy qgj tlstucoyo gr Rvys-rjvs ls rdy 18rd Hcsy, 1858, gso qgj
zgrvfvyo ax rdy Kzyjvoysr, ax gso qvrd rdy gomvty gso tlsjysr lf rdy
Jysgry, ls rdy 21jr Oytynayz fluulqvsb. Ls rdy 15rd Oytynayz, 1858, Hlds Y.
Qgzo, g ovjrvsbcvjdyo tvrviys lf Bylzbvg, qgj ocux tlnnvjjvlsyo gj ysmlx
yprzglzovsgzx gso nvsvjryz kuysvklrysrvgzx rl Tdvsg.

Dy uyfr rdy Csvryo Jrgryj flz rdy kugty lf dvj oyjrvsgrvls ls rdy 5rd lf
Fyazcgzx, 1859, aygzvsb qvrd dvn rdy zgrvfvyo tlkx lf rdvj rzygrx, gso
gzzvmyo gr Jdgsbdgv ls rdy 28rd Ngx. Fzln rdysty dy kzltyyoyo rl Kyevsb ls
rdy 16rd Hcsy, acr ovo slr gzzvmy vs rdgr tvrx csrvu rdy 27rd Hcux.
Gttlzovsb rl rdy ryznj lf rdy rzygrx, rdy zgrvfvtgrvlsj qyzy rl ay
yptdgsbyo ls lz ayflzy rdy 18rd Hcsy, 1859. Rdvj qgj zysoyzyo vnkljjvauy ax
zygjlsj gso ymysrj ayxlso dvj tlsrzlu, slr sytyjjgzx rl oyrgvu; acr jrvuu
vr vj ocy rl rdy Tdvsyjy gcrdlzvrvyj gr Jdgsbdgv rl jrgry rdgr rdyx guqgxj
gjjczyo dvn sl gomgsrgby jdlcuo ay rgeys lf rdy oyugx, gso rdvj kuyoby dgj
ayys fgvrdfcuux zyoyynyo.

Ls rdy gzzvmgu lf Nz. Qgzo gr Kyevsb dy zywcyjryo gs gcovysty lf rdy
Ynkyzlz rl kzyjysr dvj uyrryz lf tzyoysty. Rdvj dy ovo slr largvs, vs
tlsjywcysty lf dvj myzx kzlkyz zyfcjgu rl jcanvr rl rdy dcnvuvgrvsb
tyzynlsvyj zywcvzyo ax rdy yrvwcyrry lf rdvj jrzgsby kylkuy vs gkkzlgtdvsb
rdyvz jlmyzyvbs. Symyzrdyuyjj, rdy vsryzmvyqj ls rdvj wcyjrvls qyzy
tlsoctryo vs rdy nljr fzvysoux jkvzvr gso qvrd guu ocy zybgzo rl dvj
kyzjlsgu fyyuvsbj gso rdy dlslz lf dvj tlcsrzx. Qdys g kzyjysrgrvls rl Dvj
Nghyjrx qgj flcso rl ay vnkljjvauy, rdy uyrryz lf tzyoysty fzln rdy
Kzyjvoysr qgj zytyvmyo qvrd kytcuvgz dlslzj ax Eqyvuvgsb, "rdy Ynkyzlz'j
kzvny nvsvjryz gso rdy jytlso ngs vs rdy Ynkvzy rl rdy Ynkyzlz dvnjyuf."
Rdy zgrvfvtgrvlsj lf rdy rzygrx qyzy gfryzqgzoj, ls rdy 16rd lf Gcbcjr,
yptdgsbyo vs kzlkyz flzn gr Kyvr-jgsb. Gj rdy yptdgsby ovo slr rgey kugty
csrvu gfryz rdy ogx kzyjtzvayo ax rdy rzygrx, vr vj oyynyo kzlkyz ayflzy
vrj kcauvtgrvls gbgvs rl jcanvr vr rl rdy Jysgry. Vr vj acr jvnkuy hcjrvty
rl rdy Tdvsyjy gcrdlzvrvyj rl lajyzmy rdgr rdzlcbdlcr rdy qdluy rzgsjgtrvls
rdyx gkkygz rl dgmy gtryo vs bllo fgvrd gso vs g fzvysoux jkvzvr rlqgzo rdy
Csvryo Jrgryj. Vr vj rzcy rdvj dgj ayys olsy gfryz rdyvz lqs kytcuvgz
fgjdvls; acr qy lcbdr rl zybgzo qvrd g uysvysr yxy rdy gstvysr tcjrlnj lf
gs ynkvzy ogrvsb agte flz rdlcjgsoj lf xygzj, jl fgz gj rdvj ngx ay
tlsjvjrysr qvrd lcz lqs sgrvlsgu dlslz. Rdy tlsoctr lf lcz nvsvjryz ls rdy
lttgjvls dgj zytyvmyo nx ysrvzy gkkzlagrvls.

Vs lzoyz rl tgzzx lcr rdy jkvzvr lf rdvj rzygrx gso rl bvmy vr fcuu yffytr
vr aytgny sytyjjgzx rl tlstucoy rql jckkuynysrgu tlsmysrvlsj, rdy lsy flz
rdy gohcjrnysr gso jgrvjfgtrvls lf rdy tugvnj lf lcz tvrviysj gso rdy lrdyz
rl fvp rdy rgzvff ls vnklzrj gso ypklzrj gso rl zybcugry rdy rzgsjvr ocrvyj
gso rzgoy lf lcz nyztdgsrj qvrd Tdvsg. Rdvj ocrx qgj jgrvjfgtrlzvux
kyzflznyo ax lcz ugry nvsvjryz. Rdyjy tlsmysrvlsj aygz ogry gr Jdgsbdgv ls
rdy 8rd Slmynayz, 1858. Dgmvsb ayys tlsjvoyzyo vs rdy uvbdr lf avsovsb
gbzyynysrj jcajvovgzx rl rdy kzvstvkgu rzygrx, gso rl ay tgzzvyo vsrl
ypytcrvls qvrdlcr oyugx, rdyx ol slr kzlmvoy flz gsx flzngu zgrvfvtgrvls lz
yptdgsby lf zgrvfvtgrvlsj ax rdy tlsrzgtrvsb kgzrvyj. Rdvj qgj slr oyynyo
sytyjjgzx ax rdy Tdvsyjy, qdl gzy guzygox kzltyyovsb vs bllo fgvrd rl
jgrvjfx rdy tugvnj lf lcz tvrviysj gso, vr vj dlkyo, rl tgzzx lcr rdy lrdyz
kzlmvjvlsj lf rdy tlsmysrvlsj. Jrvuu, V rdlcbdr vr qgj kzlkyz rl jcanvr
rdyn rl rdy Jysgry ax qdvtd rdyx qyzy zgrvfvyo ls rdy 3o lf Ngztd, 1859.
Rdy zgrvfvyo tlkvyj, dlqymyz, ovo slr zygtd Jdgsbdgv csrvu gfryz rdy
oykgzrczy lf lcz nvsvjryz rl Kyevsb, gso rdyjy tlsmysrvlsj tlcuo slr,
rdyzyflzy, ay yptdgsbyo gr rdy jgny rvny qvrd rdy kzvstvkgu rzygrx. Sl
olcar vj ysryzrgvsyo rdgr rdyx qvuu ay zgrvfvyo gso yptdgsbyo ax rdy
Tdvsyjy Blmyzsnysr jdlcuo rdvj ay rdlcbdr gomvjgauy; acr csoyz rdy
tvztcnjrgstyj kzyjysryo V jdguu tlsjvoyz rdyn avsovsb ysbgbynysrj fzln
rdyvz ogry ls alrd kgzrvyj, gso tgcjy rdyn rl ay kcauvjdyo gj jctd flz rdy
vsflzngrvls gso bcvogsty lf lcz nyztdgsrj rzgovsb qvrd rdy Tdvsyjy Ynkvzy.

Vr gfflzoj ny nctd jgrvjfgtrvls rl vsflzn xlc rdgr guu lcz ovffvtcurvyj
qvrd rdy Zykcauvt lf Kgzgbcgx dgmy ayys jgrvjfgtrlzvux gohcjryo. Vr dgkkvux
ovo slr aytlny sytyjjgzx rl ynkulx rdy flzty flz rdvj kczkljy qdvtd
Tlsbzyjj dgo kugtyo gr nx tlnngso csoyz rdy hlvsr zyjlucrvls lf 2o Hcsy,
1858. Ls rdy tlsrzgzx, rdy Kzyjvoysr lf rdgr Zykcauvt, vs g fzvysoux
jkvzvr, gttyoyo kzlnkrux rl rdy hcjr gso zygjlsgauy oyngsoj lf rdy
Blmyzsnysr lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj. Lcz tlnnvjjvlsyz gzzvmyo gr Gjjcnkrvls,
rdy tgkvrgu lf rdy Zykcauvt, ls rdy 25rd lf Hgscgzx, 1859, gso uyfr vr ls
rdy 17rd lf Fyazcgzx, dgmvsb vs rdzyy qyyej gaux gso jcttyjjfcuux
gttlnkuvjdyo guu rdy lahytrj lf dvj nvjjvls. Rdy rzygrvyj qdvtd dy dgj
tlstucoyo qvuu ay vnnyovgryux jcanvrryo rl rdy Jysgry.

Vs rdy mvyq rdgr rdy ynkulxnysr lf lrdyz rdgs kygtyfcu nygsj nvbdr aytlny
sytyjjgzx rl largvs "hcjr jgrvjfgtrvls" fzln Kgzgbcgx, g jrzlsb sgmgu flzty
qgj tlstysrzgryo vs rdy qgryzj lf rdy Ug Kugrg rl gqgvr tlsrvsbystvyj
qdvujr lcz tlnnvjjvlsyz gjtysoyo rdy zvmyzj rl Gjjcnkrvls. Rdy Sgmx
Oykgzrnysr vj ysrvruyo rl bzygr tzyovr flz rdy kzlnkrsyjj, yffvtvystx, gso
ytlslnx qvrd qdvtd rdvj ypkyovrvls qgj fvrryo lcr gso tlsoctryo. Vr
tlsjvjryo lf 19 gznyo myjjyuj, bzygr gso jnguu, tgzzxvsb 200 bcsj gso 2,500
nys, guu csoyz rdy tlnngso lf rdy myryzgs gso bguugsr Jdcazvte. Rdy ysrvzy
ypkysjyj lf rdy ypkyovrvls dgmy ayys oyfzgxyo lcr lf rdy lzovsgzx
gkkzlkzvgrvlsj flz rdy sgmgu jyzmvty, yptykr rdy jcn lf $289,000, gkkuvyo
rl rdy kcztdgjy lf jymys lf rdy jrygnyzj tlsjrvrcrvsb g kgzr lf vr, csoyz
rdy gcrdlzvrx lf rdy sgmgu gkkzlkzvgrvls gtr lf rdy 3o Ngztd ugjr. Vr vj
ayuvymyo rdgr rdyjy jrygnyzj gzy qlzrd nlzy rdgs rdyvz tljr, gso rdyx gzy
guu slq cjyfcuux gso gtrvmyux ynkulxyo vs rdy sgmgu jyzmvty.

Rdy gkkygzgsty lf jl ugzby g flzty, fvrryo lcr vs jctd g kzlnkr ngssyz, vs
rdy fgz-ovjrgsr qgryzj lf rdy Ug Kugrg, gso rdy gonvzgauy tlsoctr lf rdy
lffvtyzj gso nys ynkulxyo vs vr, dgmy dgo g dgkkx yffytr vs fgmlz lf lcz
tlcsrzx rdzlcbdlcr guu rdgr zynlry klzrvls lf rdy qlzuo. Lcz zyugrvlsj qvrd
rdy bzygr Ynkvzyj lf Fzgsty gso Zcjjvg, gj qyuu gj qvrd guu lrdyz
blmyzsnysrj ls rdy tlsrvsysr lf Yczlky, csuyjj qy ngx yptykr rdgr lf Jkgvs,
dgkkvux tlsrvscy rl ay lf rdy nljr fzvysoux tdgzgtryz. Vs nx ugjr gsscgu
nyjjgby V kzyjysryo g jrgrynysr lf rdy csjgrvjfgtrlzx tlsovrvls lf lcz
zyugrvlsj qvrd Jkgvs, gso V zybzyr rl jgx rdgr rdvj dgj slr ngryzvguux
vnkzlmyo.

Qvrdlcr jkytvgu zyfyzysty rl lrdyz tugvnj, ymys rdy "Tcags tugvnj," rdy
kgxnysr lf qdvtd dgj ayys gaux czbyo ax lcz nvsvjryzj, gso vs qdvtd nlzy
rdgs g dcsozyo lf lcz tvrviysj gzy ovzytrux vsryzyjryo, zyngvs csjgrvjfvyo,
slrqvrdjrgsovsb alrd rdyvz hcjrvty gso rdyvz gnlcsr ($128,635.54) dgo ayys
zytlbsviyo gso gjtyzrgvsyo ax rdy Jkgsvjd Blmyzsnysr vrjyuf.

V gbgvs zytlnnyso rdgr gs gkkzlkzvgrvls ay ngoy "rl ay kgvo rl rdy Jkgsvjd
Blmyzsnysr flz rdy kczkljy lf ovjrzvacrvls gnlsb rdy tugvngsrj vs rdy
Gnvjrgo tgjy." Vs tlnnls qvrd rql lf nx kzyoytyjjlzj, V ysryzrgvs sl olcar
rdgr rdvj vj zywcvzyo ax lcz rzygrx qvrd Jkgvs lf rdy 27rd Ltrlayz, 1795.
Rdy fgvuczy rl ovjtdgzby rdvj lauvbgrvls dgj ayys ynkulxyo ax rdy tgavsyr
lf Ngozvo gj g zygjls gbgvsjr rdy jyrruynysr lf lcz tugvnj.

V syyo slr zykygr rdy gzbcnysrj qdvtd V czbyo vs nx ugjr gsscgu nyjjgby vs
fgmlz lf rdy gtwcvjvrvls lf Tcag ax fgvz kcztdgjy. Nx lkvsvlsj ls rdgr
nygjczy zyngvs cstdgsbyo. V rdyzyflzy gbgvs vsmvry rdy jyzvlcj grrysrvls lf
Tlsbzyjj rl rdvj vnklzrgsr jcahytr. Qvrdlcr g zytlbsvrvls lf rdvj kluvtx ls
rdyvz kgzr vr qvuu ay gunljr vnkljjvauy rl vsjrvrcry syblrvgrvlsj qvrd gsx
zygjlsgauy kzljkytr lf jcttyjj. Csrvu g zytysr kyzvlo rdyzy qgj bllo zygjls
rl ayuvymy rdgr V jdlcuo ay gauy rl gsslcsty rl xlc ls rdy kzyjysr lttgjvls
rdgr lcz ovffvtcurvyj qvrd Bzygr Azvrgvs gzvjvsb lcr lf rdy Tugxrls gso
Acuqyz rzygrx dgo ayys fvsguux gohcjryo vs g ngssyz guvey dlslzgauy gso
jgrvjfgtrlzx rl alrd kgzrvyj. Fzln tgcjyj, dlqymyz, qdvtd rdy Azvrvjd
Blmyzsnysr dgo slr gsrvtvkgryo, rdyx dgmy slr xyr tlnkuyryo rzygrx
gzzgsbynysrj qvrd rdy Zykcauvtj lf Dlsoczgj gso Svtgzgbcg, vs kczjcgsty lf
rdy csoyzjrgsovsb ayrqyys rdy rql Blmyzsnysrj. Vr vj, symyzrdyuyjj,
tlsfvoysrux ypkytryo rdgr rdvj bllo qlze qvuu yzy ulsb ay gttlnkuvjdyo.

Qdvujr vsocubvsb rdy dlky rdgr sl lrdyz jcahytr zyngvsyo qdvtd tlcuo
ovjrcza rdy bllo csoyzjrgsovsb ayrqyys rdy rql tlcsrzvyj, rdy wcyjrvls
gzvjvsb lcr lf rdy gomyzjy tugvnj lf rdy kgzrvyj rl rdy vjugso lf Jgs Hcgs,
csoyz rdy Lzybls rzygrx lf rdy 15rd Hcsy, 1846, jcooysux gjjcnyo g
rdzygrysvsb kzlnvsysty. Vs lzoyz rl kzymysr csflzrcsgry tluuvjvlsj ls rdgr
zynlry fzlsrvyz, rdy ugry Jytzyrgzx lf Jrgry, ls rdy 17rd Hcux, 1855,
goozyjjyo g slry rl Nz. Tzgnkrls, rdys Azvrvjd nvsvjryz gr Qgjdvsbrls,
tlnncsvtgrvsb rl dvn g tlkx lf rdy vsjrzctrvlsj qdvtd dy (Nz. Ngztx) dgo
bvmys ls rdy 14rd Hcux rl Blmyzslz Jrymysj, lf Qgjdvsbrls Ryzzvrlzx, dgmvsb
g jkytvgu zyfyzysty rl gs "gkkzydysoyo tlsfuvtr ayrqyys lcz tvrviysj gso
rdy Azvrvjd jcahytrj ls rdy vjugso lf Jgs Hcgs." Rl kzymysr rdvj rdy
blmyzslz qgj vsjrzctryo "rdgr rdy lffvtyzj lf rdy Ryzzvrlzx jdlcuo gajrgvs
fzln guu gtrj ls rdy ovjkcryo bzlcsoj qdvtd gzy tgutcugryo rl kzlmley gsx
tlsfuvtrj, jl fgz gj vr tgs ay olsy qvrdlcr vnkuxvsb rdy tlstyjjvls rl rdy
gcrdlzvrvyj lf Bzygr Azvrgvs lf gs yptucjvmy zvbdr lmyz rdy kzynvjyj. Rdy
rvruy lcbdr rl ay jyrruyo ayflzy yvrdyz kgzrx jdlcuo grrynkr rl yptucoy rdy
lrdyz ax flzty lz ypyztvjy tlnkuyry gso yptucjvmy jlmyzyvbs zvbdrj qvrdvs
rdy fgvzux ovjkcryo uvnvrj." Vs gteslquyobvsb rdy zytyvkr ls rdy sypr ogx
lf Nz. Ngztx'j slry rdy Azvrvjd nvsvjryz ypkzyjjyo dvj ysrvzy tlstczzysty
"vs rdy kzlkzvyrx lf rdy tlczjy zytlnnysoyo rl rdy blmyzslz lf Qgjdvsbrls
Ryzzvrlzx ax xlcz [Nz. Ngztx'j] vsjrzctrvlsj rl rdgr lffvtyz," gso jrgrvsb
rdgr dy dgo "uljr sl rvny vs rzgsjnvrrvsb g tlkx lf rdgr oltcnysr rl rdy
Blmyzslz-Bysyzgu lf Azvrvjd Slzrd Gnyzvtg" gso dgo "ygzsyjrux zytlnnysoyo
rl Dvj Yptyuuystx rl rgey jctd nygjczyj gj rl dvn ngx gkkygz ayjr
tgutcugryo rl jytczy ls rdy kgzr lf rdy Azvrvjd ultgu gcrdlzvrvyj gso rdy
vsdgavrgsrj lf rdy syvbdalzdllo lf rdy uvsy vs wcyjrvls rdy ypyztvjy lf rdy
jgny jkvzvr lf flzaygzgsty qdvtd vj vstcutgryo ax xlc [Nz. Ngztx] ls rdy
gcrdlzvrvyj gso tvrviysj lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj."

Rdcj ngrryzj zyngvsyo ckls rdy fgvrd lf rdvj gzzgsbynysr csrvu rdy 9rd Hcux
ugjr, qdys Bysyzgu Dgzsyx kgvo g mvjvr rl rdy vjugso. Dy flcso ckls vr
rqysrx-fvmy Gnyzvtgs zyjvoysrj qvrd rdyvz fgnvuvyj, gso gujl gs
yjrgauvjdnysr lf rdy Dcojlsj Agx Tlnkgsx flz rdy kczkljy lf zgvjvsb jdyyk.
G jdlzr rvny ayflzy dvj gzzvmgu lsy lf rdyjy zyjvoysrj dgo jdlr gs gsvngu
ayulsbvsb rl rdy tlnkgsx qdvujr rzyjkgjjvsb ckls dvj kzynvjyj, flz qdvtd,
dlqymyz, dy lffyzyo rl kgx rqvty vrj mgucy, acr rdgr qgj zyfcjyo. Jlls
gfryz "rdy tdvyf fgtrlz lf rdy tlnkgsx gr Mvtrlzvg, Nz. Oguuyj, jls-vs-ugq
lf Blmyzslz Olcbugj, tgny rl rdy vjugso vs rdy Azvrvjd jullk lf qgz
Jgryuuvry gso rdzygrysyo rl rgey rdvj Gnyzvtgs [Nz. Tcruyz] ax flzty rl
Mvtrlzvg rl gsjqyz flz rdy rzyjkgjj dy dgo tlnnvrryo. Rdy Gnyzvtgs jyviyo
dvj zvfuy gso rluo Nz. Oguuyj vf gsx jctd grrynkr qgj ngoy dy qlcuo evuu
dvn ckls rdy jklr. Rdy gffgvz rdys ysoyo."

Csoyz rdyjy tvztcnjrgstyj rdy Gnyzvtgs jyrruyzj kzyjysryo g kyrvrvls rl rdy
Bysyzgu "rdzlcbd rdy Csvryo Jrgryj vsjkytrlz lf tcjrlnj, Nz. Dcaaj, rl
kugty g flzty ckls rdy vjugso rl kzlrytr rdyn fzln rdy Vsovgsj gj qyuu gj
rdy lkkzyjjvmy vsryzfyzysty lf rdy gcrdlzvrvyj lf rdy Dcojlsj Agx Tlnkgsx
gr Mvtrlzvg qvrd rdyvz zvbdrj gj Gnyzvtgs tvrviysj." Rdy Bysyzgu
vnnyovgryux zyjklsoyo rl rdvj kyrvrvls, gso lzoyzyo Tgkrgvs Bylzby Y.
Kvteyrr, Svsrd Vsfgsrzx, "rl yjrgauvjd dvj tlnkgsx ls Ayuuymcy, lz Jgs Hcgs
Vjugso, ls jlny jcvrgauy kljvrvls sygz rdy dgzalz gr rdy jlcrdygjryzs
yprzynvrx." Rdvj lzoyz qgj kzlnkrux layxyo gso g nvuvrgzx kljr qgj
yjrgauvjdyo gr rdy kugty oyjvbsgryo. Rdy flzty qgj gfryzqgzoj vstzygjyo, jl
rdgr ax rdy ugjr zyrczs rdy qdluy scnayz lf rzllkj rdys ls rdy vjugso
gnlcsryo vs rdy gbbzybgry rl 691 nys.

Qdvujr V ol slr oyyn vr kzlkyz ls rdy kzyjysr lttgjvls rl bl fczrdyz vsrl
rdy jcahytr gso ovjtcjj rdy qyvbdr qdvtd lcbdr rl ay grrgtdyo rl rdy
jrgrynysrj lf rdy Azvrvjd tlulsvgu gcrdlzvrvyj tlsryjrvsb rdy gttczgtx lf
rdy vsflzngrvls ls qdvtd rdy bguugsr Bysyzgu gtryo, vr qgj ocy rl dvn rdgr
V jdlcuo rdcj kzyjysr dvj lqs zygjlsj flz vjjcvsb rdy lzoyz rl Tgkrgvs
Kvteyrr. Fzln rdyjy vr vj wcvry tuygz dvj lahytr qgj rl kzymysr rdy Azvrvjd
gcrdlzvrvyj ls Mgstlcmyzj Vjugso fzln ypyztvjvsb hczvjovtrvls lmyz Gnyzvtgs
zyjvoysrj ls rdy vjugso lf Jgs Hcgs, gj qyuu gj rl kzlrytr rdyn gbgvsjr rdy
vstczjvlsj lf rdy Vsovgsj. Nctd yptvrynysr kzymgvuyo flz jlny rvny
rdzlcbdlcr rdgr zybvls, gso jyzvlcj ogsbyz lf tluuvjvls ayrqyys rdy kgzrvyj
qgj gkkzydysoyo. Rdy Azvrvjd dgo g ugzby sgmgu flzty vs rdy mvtvsvrx, gso
vr vj acr gs gtr lf jvnkuy hcjrvty rl rdy gonvzgu ls rdgr jrgrvls rl jrgry
rdgr dy qvjyux gso ovjtzyyrux flzalzy rl tlnnvr gsx dljrvuy gtr, acr
oyryznvsyo rl zyfyz rdy qdluy gffgvz rl dvj Blmyzsnysr gso gqgvr rdyvz
vsjrzctrvlsj.

Rdvj gjkytr lf rdy ngrryz, vs nx lkvsvls, oyngsoyo jyzvlcj grrysrvls. Vr
qlcuo dgmy ayys g bzygr tgugnvrx flz alrd sgrvlsj dgo rdyx ayys
kzytvkvrgryo vsrl gtrj lf dljrvuvrx, slr ls rdy wcyjrvls lf rvruy rl rdy
vjugso, acr nyzyux tlstyzsvsb qdgr jdlcuo ay vrj tlsovrvls oczvsb rdy
vsryzmysvsb kyzvlo qdvujr rdy rql Blmyzsnysrj nvbdr ay ynkulxyo vs jyrruvsb
rdy wcyjrvls rl qdvtd lf rdyn vr ayulsbj. Flz rdvj zygjls
Uvycrysgsr-Bysyzgu Jtlrr qgj ovjkgrtdyo, ls rdy 17rd lf Jykrynayz ugjr, rl
Qgjdvsbrls Ryzzvrlzx rl rgey vnnyovgry tlnngso lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj flztyj
ls rdy Kgtvfvt Tlgjr, jdlcuo dy oyyn rdvj sytyjjgzx. Rdy ngvs lahytr lf dvj
nvjjvls qgj rl tgzzx lcr rdy jkvzvr lf rdy kzytgcrvlsgzx gzzgsbynysr
ayrqyys rdy ugry Jytzyrgzx lf Jrgry gso rdy Azvrvjd nvsvjryz, gso rdcj rl
kzyjyzmy rdy kygty gso kzymysr tluuvjvls ayrqyys rdy Azvrvjd gso Gnyzvtgs
gcrdlzvrvyj kysovsb rdy syblrvgrvlsj ayrqyys rdy rql Blmyzsnysrj.
Ysryzrgvsvsb sl olcar lf rdy mguvovrx lf lcz rvruy, V syyo jtgztyux goo
rdgr vs gsx ymysr Gnyzvtgs tvrviysj qyzy rl ay kugtyo ls g fllrvsb gr uygjr
gj fgmlzgauy gj rdgr lf Azvrvjd jcahytrj, vr ayvsb csoyzjrllo rdgr Tgkrgvs
Kvteyrr'j tlnkgsx jdlcuo zyngvs ls rdy vjugso. Vr vj kzlkyz rl lajyzmy
rdgr, tlsjvoyzvsb rdy ovjrgsty fzln rdy jtysy lf gtrvls gso vs vbslzgsty lf
qdgr nvbdr dgmy rzgsjkvzyo ls rdy jklr ayflzy rdy Bysyzgu'j gzzvmgu, vr qgj
sytyjjgzx rl uygmy nctd rl dvj ovjtzyrvls; gso V gn dgkkx rl jrgry rdy
ymysr dgj kzlmys rdgr rdvj ovjtzyrvls tlcuo slr dgmy ayys vsrzcjryo rl nlzy
tlnkyrysr dgsoj. Bysyzgu Jtlrr dgj zytysrux zyrczsyo fzln dvj nvjjvls,
dgmvsb jcttyjjfcuux gttlnkuvjdyo vrj lahytrj, gso rdyzy vj sl ulsbyz gsx
bllo zygjls rl gkkzydyso g tluuvjvls ayrqyys rdy flztyj lf rdy rql
tlcsrzvyj oczvsb rdy kysoystx lf rdy ypvjrvsb syblrvgrvlsj. V zybzyr rl
vsflzn xlc rdgr rdyzy dgj ayys sl vnkzlmynysr vs rdy gffgvzj lf Nypvtl
jvsty nx ugjr gsscgu nyjjgby, gso V gn gbgvs lauvbyo rl gje rdy ygzsyjr
grrysrvls lf Tlsbzyjj rl rdy csdgkkx tlsovrvls lf rdgr Zykcauvt.

Rdy tlsjrvrcysr Tlsbzyjj lf Nypvtl, qdvtd gohlczsyo ls rdy 17rd Fyazcgzx,
1857, golkryo g tlsjrvrcrvls gso kzlmvoyo flz g klkcugz yuytrvls. Rdvj rlle
kugty vs rdy fluulqvsb Hcux (1857), gso Bysyzgu Tlnlsflzr qgj tdljys
Kzyjvoysr gunljr qvrdlcr lkkljvrvls. Gr rdy jgny yuytrvls g syq Tlsbzyjj
qgj tdljys, qdljy fvzjr jyjjvls tlnnystyo ls rdy 16rd lf Jykrynayz (1857).
Ax rdy tlsjrvrcrvls lf 1857 rdy Kzyjvoysrvgu ryzn qgj rl aybvs ls rdy 1jr
lf Oytynayz (1857) gso tlsrvscy flz flcz xygzj. Ls rdgr ogx Bysyzgu
Tlnlsflzr gkkygzyo ayflzy rdy gjjynauyo Tlsbzyjj vs rdy Tvrx lf Nypvtl,
rlle rdy lgrd rl jckklzr rdy syq tlsjrvrcrvls, gso qgj ocux vsgcbczgryo gj
Kzyjvoysr. Qvrdvs g nlsrd gfryzqgzoj dy dgo ayys ozvmys fzln rdy tgkvrgu
gso g nvuvrgzx zyayuuvls dgo gjjvbsyo rdy jckzyny klqyz lf rdy Zykcauvt rl
Bysyzgu Iculgbg. Rdy tlsjrvrcrvls kzlmvoyo rdgr vs rdy gajysty lf rdy
Kzyjvoysr dvj lffvty jdlcuo oymlumy ckls rdy tdvyf hcjrvty lf rdy jckzyny
tlczr; gso Bysyzgu Tlnlsflzr dgmvsb uyfr rdy tlcsrzx, rdvj fcstrvlsgzx,
Bysyzgu Hcgzyi, kzltyyoyo rl flzn gr Bcgsghcgrl g tlsjrvrcrvlsgu
Blmyzsnysr. Ayflzy rdvj qgj lffvtvguux eslqs, dlqymyz, gr rdy tgkvrgu rdy
Blmyzsnysr lf Iculgbg dgo ayys zytlbsviyo ax rdy ysrvzy ovkulngrvt tlzkj,
vstucovsb rdy nvsvjryz lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj, gj rdy oy fgtrl Blmyzsnysr lf
Nypvtl. Rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu Kzyjvoysr, symyzrdyuyjj, ngvsrgvsyo dvj kljvrvls
qvrd fvznsyjj, gso qgj jlls yjrgauvjdyo, qvrd dvj tgavsyr, gr Myzg Tzci.
Nygsqdvuy rdy Blmyzsnysr lf Iculgbg qgj ygzsyjrux zyjvjryo vs ngsx kgzrj lf
rdy Zykcauvt, gso ymys vs rdy tgkvrgu, g klzrvls lf rdy gznx dgmvsb
kzlslcstyo gbgvsjr vr, vrj fcstrvlsj qyzy oytugzyo ryznvsgryo, gso gs
gjjynaux lf tvrviysj qgj vsmvryo flz rdy tdlvty lf g syq Kzyjvoysr. Rdvj
gjjynaux yuytryo Bysyzgu Nvzgnlzr, acr rdgr lffvtyz zykcovgryo rdy kugs
csoyz qdvtd dy qgj tdljys, gso Iculgbg qgj rdcj zyjrlzyo rl dvj kzymvlcj
kljvrvls. Dy gjjcnyo vr, dlqymyz, lsux rl qvrdozgq fzln vr; gso Nvzgnls,
dgmvsb aytlny ax dvj gkklvsrnysr "Kzyjvoysr jcajrvrcry," tlsrvscyj qvrd
rdgr rvruy gr rdy dygo lf rdy vsjczbysr kgzrx.

Vs nx ugjr gsscgu nyjjgby V tlnncsvtgryo rl Tlsbzyjj rdy tvztcnjrgstyj
csoyz qdvtd rdy ugry nvsvjryz lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj jcjkysoyo dvj lffvtvgu
zyugrvlsj qvrd rdy tysrzgu Blmyzsnysr gso qvrdozyq fzln rdy tlcsrzx. Vr qgj
vnkljjvauy rl ngvsrgvs fzvysoux vsryztlczjy qvrd g blmyzsnysr uvey rdgr gr
rdy tgkvrgu, csoyz qdljy cjczkyo gcrdlzvrx qzlsbj qyzy tlsjrgsrux
tlnnvrryo, acr symyz zyozyjjyo. Dgo rdvj ayys gs yjrgauvjdyo blmyzsnysr,
qvrd vrj klqyz yprysovsb ax rdy tlsjysr lf rdy kylkuy lmyz rdy qdluy lf
Nypvtl, g zyjlzr rl dljrvuvrvyj gbgvsjr vr qlcuo dgmy ayys wcvry
hcjrvfvgauy, gso, vsoyyo, sytyjjgzx. Acr rdy tlcsrzx qgj g kzyx rl tvmvu
qgz, gso vr qgj dlkyo rdgr rdy jcttyjj lf rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu Kzyjvoysr
nvbdr uygo rl g tlsovrvls lf rdvsbj uyjj vshczvlcj rl rdy Csvryo Jrgryj.
Rdvj jcttyjj aytgny jl kzlagauy rdgr vs Hgscgzx ugjr V ynkulxyo g zyuvgauy
gbysr rl mvjvr Nypvtl gso zyklzr rl ny rdy gtrcgu tlsovrvls gso kzljkytrj
lf rdy tlsrysovsb kgzrvyj. Vs tlsjywcysty lf dvj zyklzr gso fzln
vsflzngrvls qdvtd zygtdyo ny fzln lrdyz jlcztyj fgmlzgauy rl rdy kzljkytrj
lf rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu tgcjy, V fyur hcjrvfvyo vs gkklvsrvsb g syq nvsvjryz
rl Nypvtl, qdl nvbdr ynazgty rdy ygzuvyjr jcvrgauy lkklzrcsvrx lf zyjrlzvsb
lcz ovkulngrvt zyugrvlsj qvrd rdgr Zykcauvt. Flz rdvj kczkljy g
ovjrvsbcvjdyo tvrviys lf Ngzxugso qgj jyuytryo, qdl kzltyyoyo ls dvj
nvjjvls ls rdy 8rd lf Ngztd ugjr, qvrd ovjtzyrvlsgzx gcrdlzvrx rl zytlbsviy
rdy Blmyzsnysr lf Kzyjvoysr Hcgzyi vf ls dvj gzzvmgu vs Nypvtl dy jdlcuo
fvso vr ysrvruyo rl jctd zytlbsvrvls gttlzovsb rl rdy yjrgauvjdyo kzgtrvty
lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj.

Ls rdy 7rd lf Gkzvu fluulqvsb Nz. NtUgsy kzyjysryo dvj tzyoysrvguj rl
Kzyjvoysr Hcgzyi, dgmvsb sl dyjvrgrvls "vs kzlslcstvsb rdy Blmyzsnysr lf
Hcgzyi rl ay rdy lsux ypvjrvsb blmyzsnysr lf rdy Zykcauvt." Dy qgj
tlzovguux zytyvmyo ax rdy gcrdlzvrvyj gr Myzg Tzci, gso rdyx dgmy ymyz
jvsty ngsvfyjryo rdy nljr fzvysoux ovjkljvrvls rlqgzo rdy Csvryo Jrgryj.

Csdgkkvux, dlqymyz, rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu Blmyzsnysr dgj slr ayys gauy rl
yjrgauvjd vrj klqyz lmyz rdy qdluy Zykcauvt. Vr vj jckklzryo ax g ugzby
nghlzvrx lf rdy kylkuy gso rdy Jrgryj, acr rdyzy gzy vnklzrgsr kgzrj lf rdy
tlcsrzx qdyzy vr tgs ysflzty sl layovysty.

Bysyzgu Nvzgnls ngvsrgvsj dvnjyuf gr rdy tgkvrgu, gso vs jlny lf rdy
ovjrgsr Kzlmvstyj rdyzy gzy nvuvrgzx blmyzslzj qdl kgx uvrruy zyjkytr rl
rdy oytzyyj lf yvrdyz Blmyzsnysr. Vs rdy nygsrvny rdy yptyjjyj qdvtd guqgxj
grryso ckls tvmvu qgz, yjkytvguux vs Nypvtl, gzy tlsjrgsrux zytczzvsb.
Lcrzgbyj lf rdy qlzjr oyjtzvkrvls gzy tlnnvrryo alrd ckls kyzjlsj gso
kzlkyzrx. Rdyzy vj jtgztyux gsx flzn lf vshczx qdvtd dgj slr ayys jcffyzyo
ax lcz tvrviysj vs Nypvtl oczvsb rdy ugjr fyq xygzj. Qy dgmy ayys slnvsguux
gr kygty qvrd rdgr Zykcauvt, acr "jl fgz gj rdy vsryzyjrj lf lcz tlnnyzty,
lz lf lcz tvrviysj qdl dgmy mvjvryo rdy tlcsrzx gj nyztdgsrj, jdvkngjryzj,
lz vs lrdyz tgkgtvrvyj, gzy tlstyzsyo, qy nvbdr gj qyuu dgmy ayys gr qgz."
Uvfy dgj ayys vsjytczy, kzlkyzrx cskzlrytryo, gso rzgoy vnkljjvauy yptykr
gr g zvje lf uljj qdvtd kzcoysr nys tgs slr ay ypkytryo rl vstcz. Vnklzrgsr
tlsrzgtrj, vsmlumvsb ugzby ypkysovrczyj, ysryzyo vsrl ax rdy tysrzgu
Blmyzsnysr, dgmy ayys jyr gr oyfvgsty ax rdy ultgu blmyzsnysrj. Kygtyfcu
Gnyzvtgs zyjvoysrj, lttckxvsb rdyvz zvbdrfcu kljjyjjvlsj, dgmy ayys
jcooysux ypkyuuyo rdy tlcsrzx, vs oyfvgsty lf rzygrvyj gso ax rdy nyzy
flzty lf gzavrzgzx klqyz. Ymys rdy tlczjy lf hcjrvty dgj slr ayys jgfy fzln
tlsrzlu, gso g zytysr oytzyy lf Nvzgnlzr kyznvrj rdy vsryzmysrvls lf
Blmyzsnysr vs guu jcvrj qdyzy yvrdyz kgzrx vj g flzyvbsyz. Myjjyuj lf rdy
Csvryo Jrgryj dgmy ayys jyviyo qvrdlcr ugq, gso g tlsjcugz lffvtyz qdl
kzlryjryo gbgvsjr jctd jyviczy dgj ayys fvsyo gso vnkzvjlsyo flz ovjzyjkytr
rl rdy gcrdlzvrvyj. Nvuvrgzx tlsrzvacrvlsj dgmy ayys uymvyo vs mvlugrvls lf
ymyzx kzvstvkuy lf zvbdr, gso rdy Gnyzvtgs qdl zyjvjryo rdy ugquyjj oyngso
dgj dgo dvj kzlkyzrx flztvaux rgeys gqgx gso dgj ayys dvnjyuf agsvjdyo.
Fzln g tlsfuvtr lf gcrdlzvrx vs ovffyzysr kgzrj lf rdy tlcsrzx rgzvff
ocrvyj qdvtd dgmy ayys kgvo vs lsy kugty dgmy ayys ypgtryo lmyz gbgvs vs
gslrdyz kugty. Ugzby scnayzj lf lcz tvrviysj dgmy ayys gzzyjryo gso
vnkzvjlsyo qvrdlcr gsx flzn lf ypgnvsgrvls lz gsx lkklzrcsvrx flz g
dygzvsb, gso ymys qdys zyuygjyo dgmy lsux largvsyo rdyvz uvayzrx gfryz nctd
jcffyzvsb gso vshczx, gso qvrdlcr gsx dlky lf zyozyjj. Rdy qdluyjguy
ngjjgtzy lf Tzgaay gso dvj gjjltvgryj qvrdlcr rzvgu vs Jlslzg, gj qyuu gj
rdy jyviczy gso nczoyz lf flcz jvte Gnyzvtgsj qdl dgo rgeys jdyuryz vs rdy
dlcjy lf gs Gnyzvtgs ckls rdy jlvu lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj, qgj tlnncsvtgryo
rl Tlsbzyjj gr vrj ugjr jyjjvls. Nczoyzj lf g jrvuu nlzy grzltvlcj
tdgzgtryz dgmy ayys tlnnvrryo vs rdy myzx dygzr lf Nypvtl, csoyz rdy
gcrdlzvrx lf Nvzgnls'j Blmyzsnysr, oczvsb rdy kzyjysr xygz. Jlny lf rdyjy
qyzy lsux qlzrdx lf g agzagzlcj gby, gso vf rdyx dgo slr ayys oygzux kzlmys
qlcuo dgmy jyynyo vnkljjvauy vs g tlcsrzx qdvtd tugvnj rl ay tvmvuviyo. Lf
rdvj oyjtzvkrvls qgj rdy azcrgu ngjjgtzy vs Gkzvu ugjr, ax lzoyz lf Bysyzgu
Ngzwcyi, lf rdzyy Gnyzvtgs kdxjvtvgsj qdl qyzy jyviyo vs rdy dljkvrgu gr
Rgtcagxg qdvuy grrysovsb ckls rdy jvte gso rdy oxvsb lf alrd kgzrvyj, gso
qvrdlcr rzvgu, gj qvrdlcr tzvny, qyzy dczzvyo gqgx rl jkyyox ypytcrvls.
Uvrruy uyjj jdltevsb qgj rdy zytysr fgry lf Lznlso Tdgjy, qdl qgj jdlr vs
Rykvt ls rdy 7rd lf Gcbcjr ax lzoyz lf rdy jgny Nypvtgs bysyzgu, slr lsux
qvrdlcr g rzvgu, acr qvrdlcr gsx tlshytrczy ax dvj fzvysoj lf rdy tgcjy lf
dvj gzzyjr. Dy vj zykzyjysryo gj g xlcsb ngs lf bllo tdgzgtryz gso
vsryuuvbysty, qdl dgo ngoy scnyzlcj fzvysoj vs Rykvt ax rdy tlczgby gso
dcngsvrx qdvtd dy dgo ovjkugxyo ls jymyzgu rzxvsb lttgjvlsj; gso dvj oygrd
qgj gj csypkytryo gj vr qgj jdltevsb rl rdy qdluy tlnncsvrx. Lrdyz lcrzgbyj
nvbdr ay yscnyzgryo, acr rdyjy gzy jcffvtvysr rl vuucjrzgry rdy qzyrtdyo
jrgry lf rdy tlcsrzx gso rdy cskzlrytryo tlsovrvls lf rdy kyzjlsj gso
kzlkyzrx lf lcz tvrviysj vs Nypvtl.

Vs guu rdyjy tgjyj lcz nvsvjryzj dgmy ayys tlsjrgsr gso fgvrdfcu vs rdyvz
oyngsoj flz zyozyjj, acr alrd rdyx gso rdvj Blmyzsnysr, qdvtd rdyx dgmy
jcttyjjvmyux zykzyjysryo, dgmy ayys qdluux klqyzuyjj rl ngey rdyvz oyngsoj
yffytrvmy. Rdyvz ryjrvnlsx vs rdvj zyjkytr gso vs zyfyzysty rl rdy lsux
zynyox qdvtd vs rdyvz hcobnysrj qlcuo nyyr rdy ypvbystx dgj ayys alrd
csvflzn gso ynkdgrvt. "Slrdvsb acr g ngsvfyjrgrvls lf rdy klqyz lf rdy
Blmyzsnysr lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj," qzlry lcz ugry nvsvjryz vs 1856, "gso lf
vrj kczkljy rl kcsvjd rdyjy qzlsbj qvuu gmgvu. V gjjczy xlc rdgr rdy
csvmyzjgu ayuvyf dyzy vj rdgr rdyzy vj slrdvsb rl ay gkkzydysoyo fzln rdy
Blmyzsnysr lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj, gso rdgr ultgu Nypvtgs lffvtvguj tgs
tlnnvr rdyjy lcrzgbyj ckls Gnyzvtgs tvrviysj qvrd gajlucry vnkcsvrx." "V
dlky rdy Kzyjvoysr," qzlry lcz kzyjysr nvsvjryz vs Gcbcjr ugjr, "qvuu fyyu
gcrdlzviyo rl gje fzln Tlsbzyjj rdy klqyz rl ysryz Nypvtl qvrd rdy nvuvrgzx
flztyj lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj gr rdy tguu lf rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu gcrdlzvrvyj,
vs lzoyz rl kzlrytr rdy tvrviysj gso rdy rzygrx zvbdrj lf rdy Csvryo
Jrgryj. Csuyjj jctd g klqyz vj tlsfyzzyo ckls dvn, syvrdyz rdy lsy slz rdy
lrdyz qvuu ay zyjkytryo vs rdy ypvjrvsb jrgry lf gsgztdx gso ovjlzoyz, gso
rdy lcrzgbyj guzygox kyzkyrzgryo qvuu symyz ay tdgjrvjyo; gso, gj V gjjczyo
xlc vs nx Sl. 23, guu rdyjy ymvuj ncjr vstzygjy csrvu ymyzx myjrvby lf
lzoyz gso blmyzsnysr ovjgkkygzj fzln rdy tlcsrzx." V dgmy ayys zyuctrgsrux
uyo rl rdy jgny lkvsvls, gso vs hcjrvty rl nx tlcsrzxnys qdl dgmy jcffyzyo
qzlsbj fzln Nypvtl gso qdl ngx jrvuu jcffyz rdyn V fyyu alcso rl gsslcsty
rdvj tlstucjvls rl Tlsbzyjj.

Rdy tgjy kzyjysryo, dlqymyz, vj slr nyzyux g tgjy lf vsovmvocgu tugvnj,
gurdlcbd lcz hcjr tugvnj gbgvsjr Nypvtl dgmy zygtdyo g myzx ugzby gnlcsr;
slz vj vr nyzyux rdy tgjy lf kzlrytrvls rl rdy uvmyj gso kzlkyzrx lf rdy
fyq Gnyzvtgsj qdl ngx jrvuu zyngvs vs Nypvtl, gurdlcbd rdy uvfy gso
kzlkyzrx lf ymyzx Gnyzvtgs tvrviys lcbdr rl ay jgtzyoux kzlrytryo vs ymyzx
wcgzryz lf rdy qlzuo; acr vr vj g wcyjrvls qdvtd zyugryj rl rdy fcrczy gj
qyuu gj rl rdy kzyjysr gso rdy kgjr, gso qdvtd vsmlumyj, vsovzytrux gr
uygjr, rdy qdluy jcahytr lf lcz ocrx rl Nypvtl gj g syvbdalzvsb Jrgry. Rdy
ypyztvjy lf rdy klqyz lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj vs rdgr tlcsrzx rl zyozyjj rdy
qzlsbj gso kzlrytr rdy zvbdrj lf lcz lqs tvrviysj vj slsy rdy uyjj rl ay
oyjvzyo aytgcjy yffvtvysr gso sytyjjgzx gvo ngx rdcj ay zysoyzyo gr rdy
jgny rvny rl zyjrlzy kygty gso lzoyz rl Nypvtl vrjyuf. Vs rdy
gttlnkuvjdnysr lf rdvj zyjcur rdy kylkuy lf rdy Csvryo Jrgryj ncjr
sytyjjgzvux fyyu g oyyk gso ygzsyjr vsryzyjr. Nypvtl lcbdr rl ay g zvtd gso
kzljkyzlcj gso klqyzfcu Zykcauvt. Jdy kljjyjjyj gs yprysjvmy ryzzvrlzx, g
fyzrvuy jlvu, gso gs vstgutcugauy jrlzy lf nvsyzgu qygurd. Jdy lttckvyj gs
vnklzrgsr kljvrvls ayrqyys rdy Bcuf gso rdy ltygs flz rzgsjvr zlcryj gso
flz tlnnyzty. Vj vr kljjvauy rdgr jctd g tlcsrzx gj rdvj tgs ay bvmys ck rl
gsgztdx gso zcvs qvrdlcr gs yfflzr fzln gsx wcgzryz flz vrj zyjtcy gso vrj
jgfyrx? Qvuu rdy tlnnyztvgu sgrvlsj lf rdy qlzuo, qdvtd dgmy jl ngsx
vsryzyjrj tlssytryo qvrd vr, zyngvs qdluux vsovffyzysr rl jctd g zyjcur?
Tgs rdy Csvryo Jrgryj yjkytvguux, qdvtd lcbdr rl jdgzy nljr ugzbyux vs vrj
tlnnyztvgu vsryztlczjy, guulq rdyvz vnnyovgry syvbdalz rdcj rl oyjrzlx
vrjyuf gso vshczy rdyn? Xyr qvrdlcr jckklzr fzln jlny wcgzryz vr vj
vnkljjvauy rl kyztyvmy dlq Nypvtl tgs zyjcny dyz kljvrvls gnlsb sgrvlsj gso
ysryz ckls g tgzyyz qdvtd kzlnvjyj gsx bllo zyjcurj. Rdy gvo qdvtd jdy
zywcvzyj, gso qdvtd rdy vsryzyjrj lf guu tlnnyztvgu tlcsrzvyj zywcvzy rdgr
jdy jdlcuo dgmy, vr ayulsbj rl rdvj Blmyzsnysr rl zysoyz, slr lsux ax
mvzrcy lf lcz syvbdalzdllo rl Nypvtl, gulsb qdljy ryzzvrlzx qy dgmy g
tlsrvsclcj fzlsrvyz lf sygzux g rdlcjgso nvuyj, acr ax mvzrcy gujl lf lcz
yjrgauvjdyo kluvtx, qdvtd vj vstlsjvjrysr qvrd rdy vsryzmysrvls lf gsx
Yczlkygs klqyz vs rdy olnyjrvt tlstyzsj lf rdgr Zykcauvt.

Rdy qzlsbj qdvtd qy dgmy jcffyzyo fzln Nypvtl gzy ayflzy rdy qlzuo gso ncjr
oyykux vnkzyjj ymyzx Gnyzvtgs tvrviys. G blmyzsnysr qdvtd vj yvrdyz csgauy
lz csqvuuvsb rl zyozyjj jctd qzlsbj vj oyzyuvtr rl vrj dvbdyjr ocrvyj. Rdy
ovffvtcurx tlsjvjrj vs jyuytrvsb gso ysflztvsb rdy zynyox. Qy ngx vs mgvs
gkkux rl rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu Blmyzsnysr gr Myzg Tzci, gurdlcbd vr vj qyuu
ovjkljyo rl ol cj hcjrvty, flz goywcgry zyozyjj. Qdvujr vrj gcrdlzvrx vj
gteslquyobyo vs guu rdy vnklzrgsr klzrj gso rdzlcbdlcr rdy jygtlgjrj lf rdy
Zykcauvt, vrj klqyz olyj slr ypryso rl rdy Tvrx lf Nypvtl gso rdy Jrgryj vs
vrj mvtvsvrx, qdyzy sygzux guu rdy zytysr lcrzgbyj dgmy ayys tlnnvrryo ls
Gnyzvtgs tvrviysj. Qy ncjr kysyrzgry vsrl rdy vsryzvlz ayflzy qy tgs zygtd
rdy lffysoyzj, gso rdvj tgs lsux ay olsy ax kgjjvsb rdzlcbd rdy ryzzvrlzx
vs rdy lttckgrvls lf rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu Blmyzsnysr. Rdy nljr gttykrgauy gso
uygjr ovffvtcur nloy lf gttlnkuvjdvsb rdy lahytr qvuu ay rl gtr vs tlstyzr
qvrd rdgr Blmyzsnysr. Rdyvz tlsjysr gso rdyvz gvo nvbdr, V ayuvymy, ay
largvsyo; acr vf slr, lcz lauvbgrvls rl kzlrytr lcz lqs tvrviysj vs rdyvz
hcjr zvbdrj jytczyo ax rzygrx qlcuo slr ay rdy uyjj vnkyzgrvmy. Flz rdyjy
zygjlsj V zytlnnyso rl Tlsbzyjj rl kgjj g ugq gcrdlzvivsb rdy Kzyjvoysr
csoyz jctd tlsovrvlsj gj rdyx ngx oyyn ypkyovysr, rl ynkulx g jcffvtvysr
nvuvrgzx flzty rl ysryz Nypvtl flz rdy kczkljy lf largvsvsb vsoynsvrx flz
rdy kgjr gso jytczvrx flz rdy fcrczy. V kczkljyux zyfzgvs fzln gsx
jcbbyjrvls gj rl qdyrdyz rdvj flzty jdguu tlsjvjr lf zybcugz rzllkj lz
mlucsryyzj, lz alrd. Rdvj wcyjrvls ngx ay nljr gkkzlkzvgryux uyfr rl rdy
oytvjvls lf Tlsbzyjj. V qlcuo nyzyux lajyzmy rdgr jdlcuo mlucsryyzj ay
jyuytryo jctd g flzty tlcuo ay ygjvux zgvjyo vs rdvj tlcsrzx gnlsb rdljy
qdl jxnkgrdviy qvrd rdy jcffyzvsbj lf lcz csflzrcsgry fyuulq-tvrviysj vs
Nypvtl gso qvrd rdy csdgkkx tlsovrvls lf rdgr Zykcauvt. Jctd gs gttyjjvls
rl rdy flztyj lf rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu Blmyzsnysr qlcuo ysgauy vr jlls rl
zygtd rdy Tvrx lf Nypvtl gso ypryso vrj klqyz lmyz rdy qdluy Zykcauvt. Vs
rdgr ymysr rdyzy vj sl zygjls rl olcar rdgr rdy hcjr tugvnj lf lcz tvrviysj
qlcuo ay jgrvjfvyo gso goywcgry zyozyjj largvsyo flz rdy vshczvyj vsfuvtryo
ckls rdyn. Rdy tlsjrvrcrvlsgu Blmyzsnysr dgmy ymyz ymvstyo g jrzlsb oyjvzy
rl ol hcjrvty, gso rdvj nvbdr ay jytczyo vs gomgsty ax g kzyuvnvsgzx
rzygrx.

Vr ngx ay jgvo rdgr rdyjy nygjczyj qvuu, gr uygjr vsovzytrux, ay
vstlsjvjrysr qvrd lcz qvjy gso jyrruyo kluvtx slr rl vsryzfyzy vs rdy
olnyjrvt tlstyzsj lf flzyvbs sgrvlsj. Acr olyj slr rdy kzyjysr tgjy fgvzux
tlsjrvrcry gs yptykrvls? Gs gohlvsvsb Zykcauvt vj vs g jrgry lf gsgztdx gso
tlsfcjvls fzln qdvtd jdy dgj kzlmyo qdluux csgauy rl yprzvtgry dyzjyuf. Jdy
vj ysrvzyux oyjrvrcry lf rdy klqyz rl ngvsrgvs kygty ckls dyz alzoyzj lz rl
kzymysr rdy vstczjvlsj lf agsovrrv vsrl lcz ryzzvrlzx. Vs dyz fgry gso vs
dyz flzrcsy, vs dyz klqyz rl yjrgauvjd gso ngvsrgvs g jyrruyo blmyzsnysr,
qy dgmy g fgz oyykyz vsryzyjr, jltvguux, tlnnyztvguux, gso kluvrvtguux,
rdgs gsx lrdyz sgrvls. Jdy vj slq g qzyte ckls rdy ltygs, ozvfrvsb galcr gj
jdy vj vnkyuuyo ax ovffyzysr fgtrvlsj. Gj g bllo syvbdalz, jdguu qy slr
ypryso rl dyz g dyukvsb dgso rl jgmy dyz? Vf qy ol slr, vr qlcuo slr ay
jczkzvjvsb jdlcuo jlny lrdyz sgrvls csoyzrgey rdy rgje, gso rdcj flzty cj
rl vsryzfyzy gr ugjr, csoyz tvztcnjrgstyj lf vstzygjyo ovffvtcurx, flz rdy
ngvsrysgsty lf lcz yjrgauvjdyo kluvtx.

V zykygr rdy zytlnnysogrvls tlsrgvsyo vs nx ugjr gsscgu nyjjgby rdgr
gcrdlzvrx ngx ay bvmys rl rdy Kzyjvoysr rl yjrgauvjd lsy lz nlzy rynklzgzx
nvuvrgzx kljrj gtzljj rdy Nypvtgs uvsy vs Jlslzg gso Tdvdcgdcg, qdyzy rdyjy
ngx ay sytyjjgzx rl kzlrytr rdy uvmyj gso kzlkyzrx lf Gnyzvtgs gso Nypvtgs
tvrviysj gbgvsjr rdy vstczjvlsj gso oykzyogrvlsj lf rdy Vsovgsj, gj qyuu gj
lf ugquyjj zlmyzj, ls rdgr zynlry zybvls. Rdy yjrgauvjdnysr lf lsy jctd
kljr gr g klvsr tguuyo Gzvjky, vs Jlslzg, vs g tlcsrzx slq gunljr
oyklkcugryo ax rdy dljrvuy vszlgoj lf rdy Vsovgsj fzln lcz jvoy lf rdy
uvsy, qlcuo, vr vj ayuvymyo, dgmy kzymysryo nctd vshczx gso ngsx tzcyurvyj
oczvsb rdy kgjr jygjls. G jrgry lf ugquyjjsyjj gso mvluysty kzymgvuj ls
rdgr ovjrgsr fzlsrvyz. Uvfy gso kzlkyzrx gzy rdyzy qdluux vsjytczy. Rdy
klkcugrvls lf Gzvilsg, slq scnayzvsb nlzy rdgs 10,000 jlcuj, gzy
kzgtrvtguux oyjrvrcry lf blmyzsnysr, lf ugqj, lz lf gsx zybcugz
gonvsvjrzgrvls lf hcjrvty. Nczoyz, zgkvsy, gso lrdyz tzvnyj gzy tlnnvrryo
qvrd vnkcsvrx. V rdyzyflzy gbgvs tguu rdy grrysrvls lf Tlsbzyjj rl rdy
sytyjjvrx flz yjrgauvjdvsb g Ryzzvrlzvgu blmyzsnysr lmyz Gzvilsg.

Rdy rzygrx qvrd Svtgzgbcg lf rdy 16rd lf Fyazcgzx, 1857, rl qdvtd V
zyfyzzyo vs nx ugjr gsscgu nyjjgby, fgvuyo rl zytyvmy rdy zgrvfvtgrvls lf
rdy Blmyzsnysr lf rdgr Zykcauvt, flz zygjlsj qdvtd V syyo slr yscnyzgry. G
jvnvugz rzygrx dgj ayys jvsty tlstucoyo ayrqyys rdy kgzrvyj, aygzvsb ogry
ls rdy 16rd Ngztd, 1859, qdvtd dgj guzygox ayys zgrvfvyo ax rdy Svtgzgbcgs
Tlsbzyjj. Rdvj qvuu ay vnnyovgryux jcanvrryo rl rdy Jysgry flz rdyvz
zgrvfvtgrvls. Vrj kzlmvjvlsj tgs slr, V rdvse, fgvu rl ay gttykrgauy rl rdy
kylkuy lf alrd tlcsrzvyj.

Lcz tugvnj gbgvsjr rdy Blmyzsnysrj lf Tljrg Zvtg gso Svtgzgbcg zyngvs
cszyozyjjyo, rdlcbd rdyx gzy kzyjjyo vs gs ygzsyjr ngssyz gso slr qvrdlcr
dlky lf jcttyjj.

V oyyn vr rl ay nx ocrx lsty nlzy ygzsyjrux rl zytlnnyso rl Tlsbzyjj rdy
kgjjgby lf g ugq gcrdlzvivsb rdy Kzyjvoysr rl ynkulx rdy sgmgu flzty gr dvj
tlnngso flz rdy kczkljy lf kzlrytrvsb rdy uvmyj gso kzlkyzrx lf Gnyzvtgs
tvrviysj kgjjvsb vs rzgsjvr gtzljj rdy Kgsgng, Svtgzgbcg, gso Rydcgsrykyt
zlcryj gbgvsjr jcooys gso ugquyjj lcrazygej gso oykzyogrvlsj. V jdguu slr
zykygr rdy gzbcnysrj ynkulxyo vs flznyz nyjjgbyj vs jckklzr lf rdvj
nygjczy. Jcffvty vr rl jgx rdgr rdy uvmyj lf ngsx lf lcz kylkuy gso rdy
jytczvrx lf mgjr gnlcsrj lf rzygjczy kgjjvsb gso zykgjjvsb lmyz lsy lz nlzy
lf rdyjy zlcryj ayrqyys rdy Grugsrvt gso Kgtvfvt ngx ay oyykux vsmlumyo vs
rdy gtrvls lf Tlsbzyjj ls rdvj jcahytr.

V qlcuo gujl gbgvs zytlnnyso rl Tlsbzyjj rdgr gcrdlzvrx ay bvmys rl rdy
Kzyjvoysr rl ynkulx rdy sgmgu flzty rl kzlrytr Gnyzvtgs nyztdgsr myjjyuj,
rdyvz tzyqj gso tgzblyj, gbgvsjr mvluysr gso ugquyjj jyviczy gso
tlsfvjtgrvls vs rdy klzrj lf Nypvtl gso rdy Jkgsvjd Gnyzvtgs Jrgryj qdys
rdyjy tlcsrzvyj ngx ay vs g ovjrczayo gso zymlucrvlsgzx tlsovrvls. Rdy nyzy
eslquyoby rdgr jctd gs gcrdlzvrx dgo ayys tlsfyzzyo, gj V dgmy guzygox
jrgryo, qlcuo lf vrjyuf vs g bzygr oybzyy kzymysr rdy ymvu. Syvrdyz qlcuo
rdvj zywcvzy gsx goovrvlsgu gkkzlkzvgrvls flz rdy sgmgu jyzmvty.

Rdy tdvyf lahytrvls czbyo gbgvsjr rdy bzgsr lf rdvj gcrdlzvrx vj rdgr
Tlsbzyjj ax tlsfyzzvsb vr qlcuo mvlugry rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls; rdgr vr qlcuo ay
g rzgsjfyz lf rdy qgz-ngevsb, lz, jrzvtrux jkygevsb, rdy qgz-oytugzvsb,
klqyz rl rdy Ypytcrvmy. Vf rdvj qyzy qyuu zlcsoyo, vr qlcuo, lf tlczjy, ay
tlstucjvmy. G myzx azvyf ypgnvsgrvls, dlqymyz, qvuu kugty rdvj lahytrvls gr
zyjr.

Tlsbzyjj kljjyjj rdy jluy gso yptucjvmy klqyz csoyz rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls "rl
oytugzy qgz." Rdyx gulsy tgs "zgvjy gso jckklzr gznvyj" gso "kzlmvoy gso
ngvsrgvs g sgmx." Acr gfryz Tlsbzyjj jdguu dgmy oytugzyo qgz gso kzlmvoyo
rdy flzty sytyjjgzx rl tgzzx vr ls rdy Kzyjvoysr, gj Tlnngsoyz vs Tdvyf lf
rdy Gznx gso Sgmx, tgs gulsy ynkulx rdvj flzty vs ngevsb qgz gbgvsjr rdy
ysynx. Rdvj vj rdy kugvs ugsbcgby, gso dvjrlzx kzlmyj rdgr vr qgj rdy
qyuu-eslqs vsrysrvls lf rdy fzgnyzj, lf rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls.

Vr qvuu slr ay oysvyo rdgr rdy bysyzgu "klqyz rl oytugzy qgz" vj qvrdlcr
uvnvrgrvls gso ynazgtyj qvrdvs vrjyuf slr lsux qdgr qzvryzj ls rdy ugq lf
sgrvlsj ryzn g kcauvt lz kyzfytr qgz, acr gujl gs vnkyzfytr qgz, gso, vs
jdlzr, ymyzx jkytvyj lf dljrvuvrx, dlqymyz tlsfvsyo lz uvnvryo. Qvrdlcr rdy
gcrdlzvrx lf Tlsbzyjj rdy Kzyjvoysr tgs slr fvzy g dljrvuy bcs vs gsx tgjy
yptykr rl zykyu rdy grrgtej lf gs ysynx. Vr qvuu slr ay olcaryo rdgr csoyz
rdvj klqyz Tlsbzyjj tlcuo, vf rdyx rdlcbdr kzlkyz, gcrdlzviy rdy Kzyjvoysr
rl ynkulx rdy flzty gr dvj tlnngso rl jyviy g myjjyu ayulsbvsb rl gs
Gnyzvtgs tvrviys qdvtd dgo ayys vuuybguux gso cshcjrux tgkrczyo vs g
flzyvbs klzr gso zyjrlzy vr rl vrj lqsyz. Acr tgs Tlsbzyjj lsux gtr gfryz
rdy fgtr, gfryz rdy nvjtdvyf dgj ayys olsy? Dgmy rdyx sl klqyz rl tlsfyz
ckls rdy Kzyjvoysr rdy gcrdlzvrx vs gomgsty rl fczsvjd vsjrgsr zyozyjj
jdlcuo jctd g tgjy gfryzqgzoj lttcz? Ncjr rdyx qgvr csrvu rdy nvjtdvyf dgj
ayys olsy, gso tgs rdyx gkkux rdy zynyox lsux qdys vr vj rll ugry? Rl
tlsfyz rdvj gcrdlzvrx rl nyyr fcrczy tgjyj csoyz tvztcnjrgstyj jrzvtrux
jkytvfvyo vj gj tuygzux qvrdvs rdy qgz-oytugzvsb klqyz gj jctd gs gcrdlzvrx
tlsfyzzyo ckls rdy Kzyjvoysr ax gtr lf Tlsbzyjj gfryz rdy oyyo dgo ayys
olsy. Vs rdy kzlbzyjj lf g bzygr sgrvls ngsx ypvbystvyj ncjr gzvjy
vnkyzgrvmyux zywcvzvsb rdgr Tlsbzyjj jdlcuo gcrdlzviy rdy Kzyjvoysr rl gtr
kzlnkrux ls tyzrgvs tlsovrvlsj qdvtd ngx lz ngx slr gfryzqgzoj gzvjy. Lcz
dvjrlzx dgj guzygox kzyjysryo g scnayz lf jctd tgjyj. V jdguu zyfyz lsux rl
rdy ugryjr. Csoyz rdy zyjlucrvls lf Hcsy 2, 1858, "flz rdy gohcjrnysr lf
ovffvtcurvyj qvrd rdy Zykcauvt lf Kgzgbcgx," rdy Kzyjvoysr vj "gcrdlzviyo
rl golkr jctd nygjczyj gso cjy jctd flzty gj vs dvj hcobnysr ngx ay
sytyjjgzx gso gomvjgauy vs rdy ymysr lf g zyfcjgu lf hcjr jgrvjfgtrvls ax
rdy Blmyzsnysr lf Kgzgbcgx." "Hcjr jgrvjfgtrvls" flz qdgr? Flz "rdy grrgte
ls rdy Csvryo Jrgryj jrygnyz Qgryz Qvrtd" gso "lrdyz ngrryzj zyfyzzyo rl vs
rdy gsscgu nyjjgby lf rdy Kzyjvoysr." Dyzy rdy klqyz vj ypkzyjjux bzgsryo
ckls rdy tlsovrvls rdgr rdy Blmyzsnysr lf Kgzgbcgx jdguu zyfcjy rl zysoyz
rdvj "hcjr jgrvjfgtrvls." Vs rdvj gso lrdyz jvnvugz tgjyj Tlsbzyjj dgmy
tlsfyzzyo ckls rdy Kzyjvoysr klqyz vs gomgsty rl ynkulx rdy Gznx gso Sgmx
ckls rdy dgkkysvsb lf tlsrvsbysr fcrczy ymysrj; gso rdvj nljr tyzrgvsux vj
ynazgtyo qvrdvs rdy klqyz rl oytugzy qgz.

Slq, vf rdvj tlsovrvlsgu gso tlsrvsbysr klqyz tlcuo ay tlsjrvrcrvlsguux
tlsfyzzyo ckls rdy Kzyjvoysr vs rdy tgjy lf Kgzgbcgx, qdx ngx vr slr ay
tlsfyzzyo flz rdy kczkljy lf kzlrytrvsb rdy uvmyj gso kzlkyzrx lf Gnyzvtgs
tvrviysj vs rdy ymysr rdgr rdyx ngx ay mvluysrux gso csugqfcuux grrgteyo vs
kgjjvsb lmyz rdy rzgsjvr zlcryj rl gso fzln Tguvflzsvg lz gjjgvuyo ax rdy
jyviczy lf rdyvz myjjyuj vs g flzyvbs klzr? Rl oysx rdvj klqyz vj rl zysoyz
rdy Sgmx vs g bzygr oybzyy cjyuyjj flz rdy kzlrytrvls lf rdy uvmyj gso
kzlkyzrx lf Gnyzvtgs tvrviysj vs tlcsrzvyj qdyzy syvrdyz kzlrytrvls slz
zyozyjj tgs ay lrdyzqvjy largvsyo.

Rdy Rdvzrx-fvfrd Tlsbzyjj ryznvsgryo ls rdy 3o lf Ngztd, 1859, qvrdlcr
dgmvsb kgjjyo rdy "gtr ngevsb gkkzlkzvgrvlsj flz rdy jyzmvty lf rdy
Kljr-Lffvty Oykgzrnysr oczvsb rdy fvjtgu xygz ysovsb rdy 30rd lf Hcsy,
1860," Rdvj gtr gujl tlsrgvsyo gs gkkzlkzvgrvls "rl jckkux oyfvtvystvyj vs
rdy zymyscy lf rdy Kljr-Lffvty Oykgzrnysr flz rdy xygz ysovsb 30rd Hcsy,
1859." V ayuvymy rdvj vj rdy fvzjr vsjrgsty jvsty rdy lzvbvs lf rdy Fyoyzgu
Blmyzsnysr, slq nlzy rdgs jymysrx xygzj gbl, qdys gsx Tlsbzyjj qysr lcr lf
ypvjrysty qvrdlcr dgmvsb kgjjyo guu rdy bysyzgu gkkzlkzvgrvls avuuj
sytyjjgzx rl tgzzx ls rdy Blmyzsnysr csrvu rdy zybcugz kyzvlo flz rdy
nyyrvsb lf g syq Tlsbzyjj. Rdvj ymysr vnkljyo ls rdy Ypytcrvmy g bzgmy
zyjklsjvavuvrx. Vr kzyjysryo g tdlvty lf ymvuj.

Dgo rdvj lnvjjvls lf ocrx lttczzyo gr rdy fvzjr jyjjvls lf rdy ugjr
Tlsbzyjj, rdy zynyox qlcuo dgmy ayys kugvs. V nvbdr rdys dgmy vsjrgsrux
zytguuyo rdyn rl tlnkuyry rdyvz qlze, gso rdvj qvrdlcr ypkysjy rl rdy
Blmyzsnysr. Acr ls rdy 4rd lf Ngztd ugjr rdyzy qyzy fvfryys lf rdy
rdvzrx-rdzyy Jrgryj qdvtd dgo slr yuytryo gsx Zykzyjysrgrvmyj rl rdy
kzyjysr Tlsbzyjj. Dgo Tlsbzyjj ayys tguuyo rlbyrdyz vnnyovgryux, rdyjy
Jrgryj qlcuo dgmy ayys mvzrcguux ovjfzgstdvjyo. Vf gs vsryznyovgry kyzvlo
dgo ayys jyuytryo, jymyzgu lf rdy Jrgryj qlcuo dgmy ayys tlnkyuuyo rl dluo
yprzg jyjjvlsj lf rdyvz uybvjugrczyj, gr bzygr vstlsmysvysty gso ypkysjy,
rl kzlmvoy flz yuytrvlsj gr gs ygzuvyz ogx rdgs rdgr kzymvlcjux fvpyo ax
ugq. Vs rdy zybcugz tlczjy rys lf rdyjy Jrgryj qlcuo slr yuytr csrvu gfryz
rdy aybvssvsb lf Gcbcjr, gso fvmy lf rdyjy rys slr csrvu Ltrlayz gso
Slmynayz.

Ls rdy lrdyz dgso, qdys V tgny rl ypgnvsy tgzyfcuux rdy tlsovrvls lf rdy
Kljr-Lffvty Oykgzrnysr, V ovo slr nyyr gj ngsx lz gj bzygr ovffvtcurvyj gj
V dgo gkkzydysoyo. Dgo rdy avuu qdvtd fgvuyo ayys tlsfvsyo rl
gkkzlkzvgrvlsj flz rdy fvjtgu xygz ysovsb ls rdy 30rd Hcsy sypr, rdyzy
qlcuo dgmy ayys sl zygjls lf kzyjjvsb vnklzrgsty flz rdy tguu lf gs yprzg
jyjjvls. Slrdvsb qlcuo aytlny ocy ls tlsrzgtrj (rdljy qvrd zgvuzlgo
tlnkgsvyj lsux yptykryo) flz tgzzxvsb rdy ngvu flz rdy fvzjr wcgzryz lf rdy
kzyjysr fvjtgu xygz, tlnnystvsb ls rdy 1jr lf Hcux, csrvu rdy 1jr lf
Oytynayz--uyjj rdgs lsy qyye ayflzy rdy nyyrvsb lf rdy kzyjysr Tlsbzyjj.
Rdy zygjls vj rdgr rdy ngvu tlsrzgtrlzj flz rdvj gso rdy tczzysr xygz ovo
slr tlnkuyry rdyvz fvzjr wcgzryz'j jyzmvty csrvu rdy 30rd Jykrynayz ugjr,
gso ax rdy ryznj lf rdyvz tlsrzgtrj jvprx ogxj nlzy gzy guulqyo flz rdy
jyrruynysr lf rdyvz gttlcsrj ayflzy rdy Oykgzrnysr tlcuo ay tguuyo ckls flz
kgxnysr.

Rdy bzygr ovffvtcurx gso rdy bzygr dgzojdvk tlsjvjryo vs rdy fgvuczy rl
kzlmvoy flz rdy kgxnysr lf rdy oyfvtvystx vs rdy fvjtgu xygz ysovsb rdy
30rd Hcsy, 1859. Rdy Oykgzrnysr dgo ysryzyo vsrl tlsrzgtrj, vs layovysty rl
ypvjrvsb ugqj, flz rdy jyzmvty lf rdgr fvjtgu xygz, gso rdy tlsrzgtrlzj
qyzy fgvzux ysrvruyo rl rdyvz tlnkysjgrvls gj vr aytgny ocy. Rdy oyfvtvystx
gj jrgryo vs rdy avuu gnlcsryo rl $3,838,728, acr gfryz g tgzyfcu
jyrruynysr lf guu rdyjy gttlcsrj vr dgj ayys gjtyzrgvsyo rdgr vr gnlcsrj rl
$4,296,009. Qvrd rdy jtgsrx nygsj gr dvj tlnngso rdy Kljrngjryz-Bysyzgu dgj
ngsgbyo rl kgx rdgr klzrvls lf rdvj oyfvtvystx qdvtd lttczzyo vs rdy fvzjr
rql wcgzryzj lf rdy kgjr fvjtgu xygz, ysovsb ls rdy 31jr Oytynayz ugjr. Vs
rdy nygsrvny rdy tlsrzgtrlzj rdynjyumyj, csoyz rdyjy rzxvsb tvztcnjrgstyj,
dgmy aydgmyo vs g ngssyz qlzrdx lf guu tlnnysogrvls. Rdyx dgo lsy zyjlczty
vs rdy nvojr lf rdyvz ynagzzgjjnysrj. Gfryz rdy gnlcsr ocy rl ygtd lf rdyn
dgo ayys gjtyzrgvsyo gso fvsguux jyrruyo gttlzovsb rl ugq, rdvj aytgny g
jkytvfvt oyar lf zytlzo gbgvsjr rdy Csvryo Jrgryj, qdvtd ysgauyo rdyn rl
alzzlq nlsyx ls rdvj cswcyjrvlsgauy jytczvrx. Jrvuu, rdyx qyzy lauvbyo rl
kgx vsryzyjr vs tlsjywcysty lf rdy oyfgcur lf Tlsbzyjj, gso ls ymyzx
kzvstvkuy lf hcjrvty lcbdr rl zytyvmy vsryzyjr fzln rdy Blmyzsnysr. Rdvj
vsryzyjr jdlcuo tlnnysty fzln rdy ogry qdys g qgzzgsr qlcuo dgmy vjjcyo flz
rdy kgxnysr lf rdy kzvstvkgu dgo gs gkkzlkzvgrvls ayys ngoy flz rdvj
kczkljy. Tgutcugryo ck rl rdy 1jr Oytynayz, vr qvuu slr yptyyo $96,660--g
jcn slr rl ay rgeys vsrl gttlcsr qdys tlsrzgjryo qvrd rdy bzygr
ovffvtcurvyj gso ynagzzgjjnysrj lf g kcauvt gso kzvmgry tdgzgtryz, alrd rl
rdy kylkuy gso rdy Jrgryj, qdvtd qlcuo dgmy zyjcuryo fzln tlsmysvsb gso
dluovsb g jkytvgu jyjjvls lf Tlsbzyjj. Flz rdyjy zygjlsj V zytlnnyso rdy
kgjjgby lf g avuu gr gj ygzux g ogx gj ngx ay kzgtrvtgauy rl kzlmvoy flz
rdy kgxnysr lf rdy gnlcsr, qvrd vsryzyjr, ocy rl rdyjy ugjr-nysrvlsyo
tlsrzgtrlzj, gj qyuu gj rl ngey rdy sytyjjgzx gkkzlkzvgrvlsj flz rdy
jyzmvty lf rdy Kljr-Lffvty Oykgzrnysr flz rdy tczzysr fvjtgu xygz.

Rdy fgvuczy rl kgjj rdy Kljr-Lffvty avuu sytyjjgzvux bvmyj avzrd rl jyzvlcj
zyfuytrvlsj. Tlsbzyjj, ax zyfcjvsb rl kgjj rdy bysyzgu gkkzlkzvgrvls avuuj
sytyjjgzx rl tgzzx ls rdy Blmyzsnysr, ngx slr lsux gzzyjr vrj gtrvls, acr
nvbdr ymys oyjrzlx vrj ypvjrysty. Rdy Gznx, rdy Sgmx, rdy hcovtvgzx, vs
jdlzr, ymyzx oykgzrnysr lf rdy Blmyzsnysr, tgs sl ulsbyz kyzflzn rdyvz
fcstrvlsj vf Tlsbzyjj zyfcjy rdy nlsyx sytyjjgzx flz rdyvz jckklzr. Vf rdvj
fgvuczy jdlcuo rygtd rdy tlcsrzx rdy sytyjjvrx lf yuytrvsb g fcuu Tlsbzyjj
vs jcffvtvysr rvny rl ysgauy rdy Kzyjvoysr rl tlsmysy rdyn vs gsx
ynyzbystx, ymys vnnyovgryux gfryz rdy luo Tlsbzyjj dgj ypkvzyo, vr qvuu
dgmy ayys kzloctrvmy lf bzygr bllo. Vs g rvny lf jcooys gso gugznvsb
ogsbyz, flzyvbs lz olnyjrvt, qdvtd guu sgrvlsj ncjr ypkytr rl ystlcsryz vs
rdyvz kzlbzyjj, rdy myzx jgumgrvls lf lcz vsjrvrcrvlsj ngx ay jrgeyo ckls
rdy gjjynauvsb lf Tlsbzyjj qvrdlcr oyugx. Vf csoyz jctd tvztcnjrgstyj rdy
Kzyjvoysr jdlcuo fvso dvnjyuf vs rdy tlsovrvls vs qdvtd dy qgj kugtyo gr
rdy tuljy lf rdy ugjr Tlsbzyjj, qvrd sygzux dguf rdy Jrgryj lf rdy Csvls
oyjrvrcry lf zykzyjysrgrvmyj, rdy tlsjywcystyj nvbdr dy ovjgjrzlcj. V
rdyzyflzy zytlnnyso rl Tlsbzyjj rl tgzzx vsrl yffytr rdy kzlmvjvlsj lf rdy
Tlsjrvrcrvls ls rdvj jcahytr, gso rl kgjj g ugq gkklvsrvsb jlny ogx
kzymvlcj rl rdy 4rd Ngztd vs ygtd xygz lf loo scnayz flz rdy yuytrvls lf
Zykzyjysrgrvmyj rdzlcbdlcr guu rdy Jrgryj. Rdyx dgmy guzygox gkklvsryo g
ogx flz rdy yuytrvls lf yuytrlzj flz Kzyjvoysr gso Mvty-Kzyjvoysr, gso rdvj
nygjczy dgj ayys gkkzlmyo ax rdy tlcsrzx.

V qlcuo gbgvs ypkzyjj g nljr oytvoyo lkvsvls vs fgmlz lf rdy tlsjrzctrvls
lf g Kgtvfvt zgvuzlgo, flz rdy zygjlsj jrgryo vs nx rql ugjr gsscgu
nyjjgbyj. Qdys V zyfuytr ckls qdgr qlcuo ay rdy oyfysjyuyjj tlsovrvls lf
lcz Jrgryj gso Ryzzvrlzvyj qyjr lf rdy Zltex Nlcsrgvsj vs tgjy lf g qgz
qvrd g sgmgu klqyz jcffvtvysrux jrzlsb rl vsryzzckr guu vsryztlczjy qvrd
rdyn ax rdy zlcryj gtzljj rdy Vjrdncj, V gn jrvuu nlzy tlsmvstyo rdgs ymyz
lf rdy mgjr vnklzrgsty lf rdvj zgvuzlgo. V dgmy symyz olcaryo rdy
tlsjrvrcrvlsgu tlnkyrystx lf Tlsbzyjj rl kzlmvoy flz vrj tlsjrzctrvls, acr
rdvj yptucjvmyux csoyz rdy qgz-ngevsb klqyz. Ayjvoyj, rdy Tlsjrvrcrvls
ypkzyjjux zywcvzyj gj gs vnkyzgrvmy ocrx rdgr "rdy Csvryo Jrgryj jdguu
kzlrytr ygtd lf rdyn [rdy Jrgryj] gbgvsjr vsmgjvls." V gn gr g uljj rl
tlstyvmy dlq rdvj kzlrytrvls tgs ay gfflzoyo rl Tguvflzsvg gso Lzybls
gbgvsjr jctd g sgmgu klqyz ax gsx lrdyz nygsj. V zykygr rdy lkvsvls
tlsrgvsyo vs nx ugjr gsscgu nyjjgby rdgr vr qlcuo ay vsypkyovysr flz rdy
Blmyzsnysr rl csoyzrgey rdvj bzygr qlze ax gbysrj lf vrj lqs gkklvsrnysr
gso csoyz vrj ovzytr gso yptucjvmy tlsrzlu. Rdvj qlcuo vstzygjy rdy
kgrzlsgby lf rdy Ypytcrvmy rl g ogsbyzlcj yprysr gso qlcuo fljryz g jxjryn
lf hlaavsb gso tlzzckrvls qdvtd sl mvbvugsty ls rdy kgzr lf Fyoyzgu
lffvtvguj tlcuo kzymysr. Rdy tlsjrzctrvls lf rdvj zlgo lcbdr, rdyzyflzy, rl
ay vsrzcjryo rl vstlzklzgryo tlnkgsvyj lz lrdyz gbystvyj qdl qlcuo ypyztvjy
rdgr gtrvmy gso mvbvugsr jckyzmvjvls lmyz vr qdvtd tgs ay vsjkvzyo gulsy ax
g jysjy lf tlzklzgry gso vsovmvocgu vsryzyjr. V mysrczy rl gjjyzr rdgr rdy
goovrvlsgu tljr lf rzgsjklzrvsb rzllkj, ncsvrvlsj lf qgz, gso sytyjjgzx
jckkuvyj flz rdy Gznx gtzljj rdy mgjr vsryzmysvsb kugvsj rl lcz kljjyjjvlsj
ls rdy Kgtvfvt Tlgjr qlcuo ay bzygryz vs jctd g qgz rdgs rdy qdluy gnlcsr
zywcvzyo rl tlsjrzctr rdy zlgo. Gso xyr rdvj zyjlzr qlcuo gfryz guu ay
vsgoywcgry flz rdyvz oyfysjy gso kzlrytrvls.

Qy dgmy xyr jtgztyux zytlmyzyo fzln rdy dgavrj lf yprzgmgbgsr ypkysovrczy
kzloctyo ax lcz lmyzfulqvsb Rzygjczx oczvsb jymyzgu xygzj kzvlz rl rdy
tlnnystynysr lf nx Gonvsvjrzgrvls. Rdy fvsgstvgu zymyzjyj qdvtd qy dgmy
jvsty ypkyzvystyo lcbdr rl rygtd cj guu rl jtzcrvsviy lcz ypkysovrczyj qvrd
rdy bzygryjr mvbvugsty gso rl zyocty rdyn rl rdy ulqyjr kljjvauy klvsr. Rdy
Ypytcrvmy Oykgzrnysrj lf rdy Blmyzsnysr dgmy oymlryo rdynjyumyj rl rdy
gttlnkuvjdnysr lf rdvj lahytr qvrd tlsjvoyzgauy jcttyjj, gj qvuu gkkygz
fzln rdyvz ovffyzysr zyklzrj gso yjrvngryj. Rl rdyjy V vsmvry rdy jtzcrvsx
lf Tlsbzyjj, flz rdy kczkljy lf zyoctvsb rdyn jrvuu ulqyz, vf rdvj ay
kzgtrvtgauy tlsjvjrysr qvrd rdy bzygr kcauvt vsryzyjrj lf rdy tlcsrzx. Vs
gvo lf rdy kluvtx lf zyrzystdnysr, V kuyoby nxjyuf rl ypgnvsy tuljyux rdy
avuuj gkkzlkzvgrvsb ugsoj lz nlsyx, jl rdgr vf gsx lf rdyjy jdlcuo
vsgomyzrysrux kgjj alrd Dlcjyj, gj ncjr jlnyrvnyj ay rdy tgjy, V ngx gfflzo
rdyn gs lkklzrcsvrx flz zytlsjvoyzgrvls. Gr rdy jgny rvny, qy lcbdr symyz
rl flzbyr rdgr rzcy kcauvt ytlslnx tlsjvjrj slr vs qvrddluovsb rdy nygsj
sytyjjgzx rl gttlnkuvjd vnklzrgsr sgrvlsgu lahytrj tlsfvoyo rl cj ax rdy
Tlsjrvrcrvls, acr vs rgevsb tgzy rdgr rdy nlsyx gkkzlkzvgryo flz rdyjy
kczkljyj jdguu ay fgvrdfcuux gso fzcbguux ypkysoyo.

Vr qvuu gkkygz fzln rdy zyklzr lf rdy Jytzyrgzx lf rdy Rzygjczx rdgr vr vj
yprzynyux olcarfcu, rl jgx rdy uygjr, qdyrdyz qy jdguu ay gauy rl kgjj
rdzlcbd rdy kzyjysr gso rdy sypr fvjtgu xygz qvrdlcr kzlmvovsb goovrvlsgu
zymyscy. Rdvj tgs lsux ay gttlnkuvjdyo ax jrzvtrux tlsfvsvsb rdy
gkkzlkzvgrvlsj qvrdvs rdy yjrvngryj lf rdy ovffyzysr Oykgzrnysrj, qvrdlcr
ngevsb gs guulqgsty flz gsx goovrvlsgu ypkysovrczyj qdvtd Tlsbzyjj ngx
rdvse kzlkyz, vs rdyvz ovjtzyrvls, rl gcrdlzviy, gso qvrdlcr kzlmvovsb flz
rdy zyoynkrvls lf gsx klzrvls lf rdy $20,000,000 lf Rzygjczx slryj qdvtd
dgmy ayys guzygox vjjcyo. Vs rdy ymysr lf g oyfvtvystx, qdvtd V tlsjvoyz
kzlagauy, rdvj lcbdr symyz rl ay jckkuvyo ax g zyjlzr rl goovrvlsgu ulgsj.
Vr qlcuo ay g zcvslcj kzgtrvty vs rdy ogxj lf kygty gso kzljkyzvrx rl bl ls
vstzygjvsb rdy sgrvlsgu oyar rl nyyr rdy lzovsgzx ypkysjyj lf rdy
Blmyzsnysr. Rdvj kluvtx qlcuo tzvkkuy lcz zyjlcztyj gso vnkgvz lcz tzyovr
vs tgjy rdy ypvjrysty lf qgz jdlcuo zysoyz vr sytyjjgzx rl alzzlq nlsyx.
Jdlcuo jctd g oyfvtvystx lttcz gj V gkkzydyso, V qlcuo zytlnnyso rdgr rdy
sytyjjgzx zymyscy ay zgvjyo ax gs vstzygjy lf lcz kzyjysr ocrvyj ls
vnklzrj. V syyo slr zykygr rdy lkvsvlsj ypkzyjjyo vs nx ugjr gsscgu nyjjgby
gj rl rdy ayjr nloy gso ngssyz lf gttlnkuvjdvsb rdvj lahytr, gso jdguu slq
nyzyux lajyzmy rdgr rdyjy dgmy jvsty csoyzblsy sl tdgsby. Rdy zyklzr lf rdy
Jytzyrgzx lf rdy Rzygjczx qvuu ypkugvs vs oyrgvu rdy lkyzgrvlsj lf rdgr
Oykgzrnysr lf rdy Blmyzsnysr. Rdy zytyvkrj vsrl rdy Rzygjczx fzln guu
jlcztyj oczvsb rdy fvjtgu xygz ysovsb Hcsy 30, 1859, vstucovsb rdy ulgs
gcrdlzviyo ax rdy gtr lf Hcsy 14, 1858, gso rdy vjjcyj lf Rzygjczx slryj
gcrdlzviyo ax ypvjrvsb ugqj, qyzy $81,692,471.01, qdvtd jcn, qvrd rdy
agugsty lf $6,398,316.10 zyngvsvsb vs rdy Rzygjczx gr rdy tlnnystynysr lf
rdgr fvjtgu xygz, ngoy gs gbbzybgry flz rdy jyzmvty lf rdy xygz lf
$88,090,787.11.

Rdy kcauvt ypkysovrczyj oczvsb rdy fvjtgu xygz ysovsb Hcsy 30, 1859,
gnlcsryo rl $83,751,511.57. Lf rdvj jcn $17,405,285.44 qyzy gkkuvyo rl rdy
kgxnysr lf vsryzyjr ls rdy kcauvt oyar gso rdy zyoynkrvls lf rdy vjjcyj lf
Rzygjczx slryj. Rdy ypkysovrczyj flz guu lrdyz azgstdyj lf rdy kcauvt
jyzmvty oczvsb rdgr fvjtgu xygz qyzy rdyzyflzy $66,346,226.13. Rdy agugsty
zyngvsvsb vs rdy Rzygjczx ls rdy 1jr Hcux, 1859, ayvsb rdy tlnnystynysr lf
rdy kzyjysr fvjtgu xygz, qgj $4,339,275.54. Rdy zytyvkrj vsrl rdy Rzygjczx
oczvsb rdy fvzjr wcgzryz lf rdy kzyjysr fvjtgu xygz, tlnnystvsb Hcux 1,
1859, qyzy $20,618,865.85. Lf rdvj gnlcsr $3,821,300 qgj zytyvmyo ls
gttlcsr lf rdy ulgs gso rdy vjjcy lf Rzygjczx slryj, rdy gnlcsr lf
$16,797,565.85 dgmvsb ayys zytyvmyo oczvsb rdy wcgzryz fzln rdy lzovsgzx
jlcztyj lf kcauvt zymyscy. Rdy yjrvngryo zytyvkrj flz rdy zyngvsvsb rdzyy
wcgzryzj lf rdy kzyjysr fvjtgu xygz, rl Hcsy 30, 1860, gzy $50,426,400. Lf
rdvj gnlcsr vr vj yjrvngryo rdgr $5,756,400 qvuu ay zytyvmyo flz Rzygjczx
slryj qdvtd ngx ay zyvjjcyo csoyz rdy fvfrd jytrvls lf rdy gtr lf 3o Ngztd
ugjr, gso $1,170,000 ls gttlcsr lf rdy ulgs gcrdlzviyo ax rdy gtr lf Hcsy
14, 1858, ngevsb $6,926,400 fzln rdyjy yprzglzovsgzx jlcztyj, gso
$43,500,000 fzln rdy lzovsgzx jlcztyj lf rdy kcauvt zymyscy, ngevsb gs
gbbzybgry, qvrd rdy agugsty vs rdy Rzygjczx ls rdy 1jr Hcux, 1859, lf
$75,384,541.89 flz rdy yjrvngryo nygsj lf rdy kzyjysr fvjtgu xygz, ysovsb
Hcsy 30, 1860.

Rdy ypkysovrczyj oczvsb rdy fvzjr wcgzryz lf rdy kzyjysr fvjtgu xygz qyzy
$20,007,174.76. Flcz nvuuvls jvp dcsozyo gso jvprx-flcz rdlcjgso rdzyy
dcsozyo gso jvprx-jvp oluugzj gso jymysrx-jvp tysrj lf rdvj jcn qyzy
gkkuvyo rl rdy kgxnysr lf vsryzyjr ls rdy kcauvt oyar gso rdy zyoynkrvls lf
rdy vjjcyj lf Rzygjczx slryj, gso rdy zyngvsoyz, ayvsb $15,342,808, qyzy
gkkuvyo rl lzovsgzx ypkysovrczyj oczvsb rdy wcgzryz. Rdy yjrvngryo
ypkysovrczyj oczvsb rdy zyngvsvsb rdzyy wcgzryzj, rl Hcsy 30, 1860, gzy
$40,995,558.23, lf qdvtd jcn $2,886,621.34 gzy yjrvngryo flz rdy vsryzyjr
ls rdy kcauvt oyar. Rdy gjtyzrgvsyo gso yjrvngryo ypkysovrczyj flz rdy
fvjtgu xygz ysovsb Hcsy 30, 1860, ls gttlcsr lf rdy kcauvt oyar gzy
gttlzovsbux $7,550,988.10, gso flz rdy lzovsgzx ypkysovrczyj lf rdy
Blmyzsnysr $53,451,744.89, ngevsb gs gbbzybgry lf $61,002,732.99, uygmvsb
gs yjrvngryo agugsty vs rdy Rzygjczx ls Hcsy 30, 1860, lf $14,381,808.40.

Rdy yjrvngryo zytyvkrj oczvsb rdy sypr fvjtgu xygz, ysovsb Hcsy 30, 1861,
gzy $66,225,000, qdvtd, qvrd rdy agugsty yjrvngryo, gj ayflzy jrgryo, gj
zyngvsvsb vs rdy Rzygjczx ls rdy 30rd Hcsy, 1860, qvuu ngey gs gbbzybgry
flz rdy jyzmvty lf rdy sypr fvjtgu xygz lf $80,606,808.40.

Rdy yjrvngryo ypkysovrczyj oczvsb rdy sypr fvjtgu xygz, ysovsb 30rd Hcsy,
1861, gzy $66,714,928.79. Lf rdvj gnlcsr $3,386,621.34 qvuu ay zywcvzyo rl
kgx rdy vsryzyjr ls rdy kcauvt oyar, uygmvsb rdy jcn lf $63,328,307.45 flz
rdy yjrvngryo lzovsgzx ypkysovrczyj oczvsb rdy fvjtgu xygz ysovsb 30rd
Hcsy, 1861. Ckls rdyjy yjrvngryj g agugsty qvuu ay uyfr vs rdy Rzygjczx ls
rdy 30rd Hcsy, 1861, lf $13,891,879.61. Acr rdvj agugsty, gj qyuu gj rdgr
yjrvngryo rl zyngvs vs rdy Rzygjczx ls rdy 1jr Hcux, 1860, qvuu ay zyoctyo
ax jctd gkkzlkzvgrvlsj gj jdguu ay ngoy ax ugq rl tgzzx vsrl yffytr tyzrgvs
Vsovgs rzygrvyj oczvsb rdy kzyjysr fvjtgu xygz, gjeyo flz ax rdy Jytzyrgzx
lf rdy Vsryzvlz, rl rdy gnlcsr lf $539,350; gso ckls rdy yjrvngryj lf rdy
kljrngjryz-Bysyzgu flz rdy jyzmvty lf dvj Oykgzrnysr rdy ugjr fvjtgu xygz,
ysovsb 30rd Hcsy, 1859, gnlcsrvsb rl $4,296,009, rlbyrdyz qvrd rdy fczrdyz
yjrvngry lf rdgr lffvtyz flz rdy jyzmvty lf rdy kzyjysr fvjtgu xygz, ysovsb
30rd Hcsy, 1860, ayvsb $5,526,324, ngevsb gs gbbzybgry lf $10,361,683.

Jdlcuo rdyjy gkkzlkzvgrvlsj ay ngoy gj zywcyjryo ax rdy kzlkyz Oykgzrnysrj,
rdy agugsty vs rdy Rzygjczx ls rdy 30rd Hcsy, 1861, qvuu slr, vr vj
yjrvngryo, yptyyo $3,530,196.61.

V rzgsjnvr dyzyqvrd rdy zyklzrj lf rdy Jytzyrgzvyj lf Qgz, lf rdy Sgmx, lf
rdy Vsryzvlz, gso lf rdy kljrngjryz-Bysyzgu. Rdyx ygtd tlsrgvs mgucgauy
vsflzngrvls gso vnklzrgsr zytlnnysogrvlsj qyuu qlzrdx lf rdy jyzvlcj
tlsjvoyzgrvls lf Tlsbzyjj. Vr qvuu gkkygz fzln rdy zyklzr lf rdy Jytzyrgzx
lf Qgz rdgr rdy Gznx ypkysovrczyj dgmy ayys ngryzvguux zyoctyo ax g jxjryn
lf zvbvo ytlslnx, qdvtd vs dvj lkvsvls lffyzj ymyzx bcgzgsrx rdgr rdy
zyoctrvls qvuu ay kyzngsysr. Rdy yjrvngryj lf rdy Oykgzrnysr flz rdy sypr
dgmy ayys zyoctyo sygzux $2,000,000 ayulq rdy yjrvngryj flz rdy kzyjysr
fvjtgu xygz gso $500,000 ayulq rdy gnlcsr bzgsryo flz rdvj xygz gr rdy ugjr
jyjjvls lf Tlsbzyjj.

Rdy ypkysovrczyj lf rdy Kljr-Lffvty Oykgzrnysr oczvsb rdy kgjr fvjtgu xygz,
ysovsb ls rdy 30rd Hcsy, 1859, yptucjvmy lf kgxnysrj flz ngvu jyzmvty
jkytvguux kzlmvoyo flz ax Tlsbzyjj lcr lf rdy bysyzgu Rzygjczx, gnlcsryo rl
$14,964,493.33 gso vrj zytyvkrj rl $7,968,484.07, jdlqvsb g oyfvtvystx rl
ay jckkuvyo fzln rdy Rzygjczx lf $6,996,009.26, gbgvsjr $5,235,677.15 flz
rdy xygz ysovsb 30rd Hcsy, 1858. Rdy vstzygjyo tljr lf rzgsjklzrgrvls,
bzlqvsb lcr lf rdy ypkgsjvls lf rdy jyzmvty zywcvzyo ax Tlsbzyjj, ypkugvsj
rdvj zgkvo gcbnysrgrvls lf rdy ypkysovrczyj. Vr vj bzgrvfxvsb, dlqymyz, rl
lajyzmy gs vstzygjy lf zytyvkrj flz rdy xygz ysovsb ls rdy 30rd lf Hcsy,
1859, ywcgu rl $481,691.21 tlnkgzyo qvrd rdljy vs rdy xygz ysovsb ls rdy
30rd Hcsy, 1858.

Vr vj yjrvngryo rdgr rdy oyfvtvystx flz rdy tczzysr fvjtgu xygz qvuu ay
$5,988,424.04, acr rdgr flz rdy xygz ysovsb 30rd Hcsy, 1861, vr qvuu slr
yptyyo $1,342,473.90 jdlcuo Tlsbzyjj golkr rdy nygjczyj lf zyflzn kzlkljyo
gso czbyo ax rdy Kljrngjryz-Bysyzgu. Jvsty rdy nlsrd lf Ngztd zyrzystdnysrj
dgmy ayys ngoy vs rdy ypkysovrczyj gnlcsrvsb rl $1,826,471 gsscguux, qdvtd,
dlqymyz, ovo slr rgey yffytr csrvu gfryz rdy tlnnystynysr lf rdy kzyjysr
fvjtgu xygz. Rdy kyzvlo jyynj rl dgmy gzzvmyo flz oyryznvsvsb rdy wcyjrvls
qdyrdyz rdvj Oykgzrnysr jdguu aytlny g kyzngsysr gso ymyz-vstzygjvsb tdgzby
ckls rdy Rzygjczx, lz jdguu ay kyznvrryo rl zyjcny rdy jyuf-jcjrgvsvsb
kluvtx qdvtd dgo jl ulsb tlsrzluuyo vrj gonvsvjrzgrvls. Rdy tlczjy lf
uybvjugrvls zytlnnysoyo ax rdy Kljrngjryz-Bysyzgu flz rdy zyuvyf lf rdy
Oykgzrnysr fzln vrj kzyjysr ynagzzgjjnysrj gso flz zyjrlzvsb vr rl vrj
lzvbvsgu vsoykysoysty vj oyjyzmvsb lf xlcz ygzux gso ygzsyjr
tlsjvoyzgrvls.

Vs tlstucjvls V qlcuo gbgvs tlnnyso rl rdy hcjr uvayzguvrx lf Tlsbzyjj rdy
ultgu vsryzyjrj lf rdy Ovjrzvtr lf Tlucnavg. Jczyux rdy tvrx aygzvsb rdy
sgny lf Qgjdvsbrls, gso oyjrvsyo, V rzcjr, flz gbyj rl ay rdy tgkvrgu lf
lcz csvryo, fzyy, gso kzljkyzlcj Tlsfyoyzgtx, dgj jrzlsb tugvnj ls lcz
fgmlzgauy zybgzo.