Goaatk-Wjzjyovl tg zro Lovxzo xvd Rthlo tg Uosuolovzxzjpol:

Jv tcodjovwo zt zro wtmmxvd tg zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv, jz rxl vtk cowtmo mf dhzf
"zt njpo zt Wtvnuoll jvgtumxzjtv tg zro lzxzo tg zro Hvjtv xvd uowtmmovd zt
zroju wtvljdouxzjtv lhwr moxlhuol" xl J ehdno zt co "vowollxuf xvd
obsodjovz."

Chz gjulz xvd xctpo xaa, thu zrxvil xuo dho zt Xamjnrzf Ntd gtu zro
vhmouthl covogjzl krjwr Ro rxl colztkod hstv zrjl sotsao, xvd thu hvjzod
suxfoul thnrz zt xlwovd zt Rjm zrxz Ro kthad wtvzjvho zt caoll thu nuoxz
Uoshcajw jv zjmo zt wtmo xl Ro rxl caollod jz jv zjmo sxlz. Ljvwo zro
xdethuvmovz tg zro axlz Wtvnuoll thu wtvlzjzhovzl rxpo ovetfod xv hvhlhxa
donuoo tg roxazr. Zro oxuzr rxl fjoadod rou guhjzl xchvdxvzaf xvd rxl
cthvzjghaaf uokxudod zro ztja tg zro rhlcxvdmxv. Thu nuoxz lzxsaol rxpo
wtmmxvdod rjnr sujwol, xvd hs zjaa kjzrjv x cujog soujtd thu mxvhgxwzhujvn,
mjvouxa, xvd mowrxvjwxa twwhsxzjtvl rxpo axunoaf sxuzxiov tg zro novouxa
sutlsoujzf. Ko rxpo stllollod xaa zro oaomovzl tg mxzoujxa koxazr jv ujwr
xchvdxvwo, xvd foz, vtzkjzrlzxvdjvn xaa zrolo xdpxvzxnol, thu wthvzuf jv
jzl mtvozxuf jvzouolzl jl xz zro suolovz mtmovz jv x dosatuxcao wtvdjzjtv.
Jv zro mjdlz tg hvlhusxllod saovzf jv xaa zro sutdhwzjtvl tg xnujwhazhuo
xvd jv xaa zro oaomovzl tg vxzjtvxa koxazr, ko gjvd thu mxvhgxwzhuol
lhlsovdod, thu shcajw ktuil uozxudod, thu sujpxzo ovzousujlol tg djggouovz
ijvdl xcxvdtvod, xvd zrthlxvdl tg hlogha axctuoul zrutkv thz tg omsatfmovz
xvd uodhwod zt kxvz. Zro uopovho tg zro Ntpouvmovz, krjwr jl wrjogaf
doujpod gutm dhzjol tv jmstuzl gutm xcutxd, rxl coov nuoxzaf uodhwod,
krjalz zro xssutsujxzjtvl mxdo cf Wtvnuoll xz jzl axlz lolljtv gtu zro
whuuovz gjlwxa foxu xuo pouf axuno jv xmthvz.

Hvdou zrolo wjuwhmlzxvwol x atxv mxf co uoqhjuod cogtuo zro watlo tg fthu
suolovz lolljtv; chz zrjl, xazrthnr doosaf zt co uonuozzod, kthad sutpo zt
co tvaf x lajnrz mjlgtuzhvo krov wtmsxuod kjzr zro lhggoujvn xvd djlzuoll
suopxjajvn xmtvn zro sotsao. Kjzr zrjl zro Ntpouvmovz wxv vtz gxja doosaf
zt lfmsxzrjyo, zrthnr jz mxf co kjzrthz zro stkou zt obzovd uoajog.

Jz jl thu dhzf zt jvqhjuo krxz rxl sutdhwod lhwr hvgtuzhvxzo uolhazl xvd
krozrou zroju uowhuuovwo wxv co suopovzod. Jv xaa gtumou uophaljtvl zro
caxmo mjnrz rxpo coov gxjuaf xzzujchzod zt x pxujozf tg wttsouxzjvn wxhlol,
chz vtz lt hstv zro suolovz twwxljtv. Jz jl xssxuovz zrxz thu objlzjvn
mjlgtuzhvol rxpo sutwoodod ltaoaf gutm thu obzuxpxnxvz xvd pjwjthl lflzom
tg sxsou whuuovwf xvd cxvi wuodjzl, obwjzjvn zro sotsao zt kjad
lsowhaxzjtvl xvd nxmcajvn jv lztwil. Zrolo uophaljtvl mhlz wtvzjvho zt
uowhu xz lhwwolljpo jvzoupxal lt atvn xl zro xmthvz tg zro sxsou whuuovwf
xvd cxvi atxvl xvd djlwthvzl tg zro wthvzuf lrxaa co aogz zt zro djlwuozjtv
tg 1,400 juuolstvljcao cxvijvn jvlzjzhzjtvl, krjwr gutm zro pouf axk tg
zroju vxzhuo kjaa wtvlhaz zro jvzouolz tg zroju lztwirtadoul uxzrou zrxv
zro shcajw koagxuo.

Zro guxmoul tg zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv, krov zrof nxpo zt Wtvnuoll zro stkou "zt
wtjv mtvof xvd zt uonhaxzo zro pxaho zrouotg" xvd sutrjcjzod zro Lzxzol
gutm wtjvjvn mtvof, omjzzjvn cjaal tg wuodjz, tu mxijvn xvfzrjvn chz ntad
xvd ljapou wtjv x zovdou jv sxfmovz tg doczl, lhsstlod zrof rxd sutzowzod
zro sotsao xnxjvlz zro opjal tg xv obwolljpo xvd juuodoomxcao sxsou
whuuovwf. Zrof xuo vtz uolstvljcao gtu zro objlzjvn xvtmxaf zrxz x
Ntpouvmovz ovdtkod kjzr zro ltpouojnv xzzujchzo tg wtjvjvn mtvof xvd
uonhaxzjvn zro pxaho zrouotg lrthad rxpo vt stkou zt suopovz tzroul gutm
dujpjvn zrjl wtjv thz tg zro wthvzuf xvd gjaajvn hs zro wrxvvoal tg
wjuwhaxzjtv kjzr sxsou krjwr dtol vtz uosuolovz ntad xvd ljapou.

Jz jl tvo tg zro rjnrolz xvd mtlz uolstvljcao dhzjol tg Ntpouvmovz zt
jvlhuo zt zro sotsao x lthvd wjuwhaxzjvn modjhm, zro xmthvz tg krjwr thnrz
zt co xdxszod kjzr zro hzmtlz stlljcao kjldtm xvd lijaa zt zro kxvzl tg
jvzouvxa zuxdo xvd gtuojnv obwrxvnol. Jg zrjl co ojzrou nuoxzaf xctpo tu
nuoxzaf coatk zro sutsou lzxvdxud, zro mxuiozxcao pxaho tg opouf mxv'l
sutsouzf jl jvwuoxlod tu djmjvjlrod jv zro lxmo sutstuzjtv, xvd jvehlzjwo
zt jvdjpjdhxal xl koaa xl jvwxawhaxcao opjal zt zro wtmmhvjzf xuo zro
wtvloqhovwo.

Hvgtuzhvxzoaf, hvdou zro wtvlzuhwzjtv tg zro Godouxa Wtvlzjzhzjtv krjwr rxl
vtk suopxjaod ztt atvn zt co wrxvnod zrjl jmstuzxvz xvd doajwxzo dhzf rxl
coov djllopouod gutm zro wtjvjvn stkou xvd pjuzhxaaf zuxvlgouuod zt mtuo
zrxv 1,400 Lzxzo cxvil xwzjvn jvdosovdovzaf tg oxwr tzrou xvd uonhaxzjvn
zroju sxsou jllhol xamtlz obwahljpoaf cf x uonxud zt zro suolovz jvzouolz
tg zroju lztwirtadoul. Obouwjljvn zro ltpouojnv stkou tg sutpjdjvn x sxsou
whuuovwf jvlzoxd tg wtjv gtu zro wthvzuf, zro gjulz dhzf krjwr zrolo cxvil
tko zt zro shcajw jl zt ioos jv zroju pxhazl x lhggjwjovz
xmthvz tg ntad xvd ljapou zt jvlhuo zro wtvpouzjcjajzf tg
zroju vtzol jvzt wtjv xz xaa zjmol xvd hvdou xaa wjuwhmlzxvwol.
Vt cxvi thnrz opou zt co wrxuzouod kjzrthz lhwr uolzujwzjtvl
tv jzl chljvoll xl zt lowhuo zrjl uolhaz. Xaa tzrou uolzujwzjtvl xuo
wtmsxuxzjpoaf pxjv. Zrjl jl zro tvaf zuho zthwrlztvo, zro tvaf oggjwjovz
uonhaxztu tg x sxsou whuuovwf--zro tvaf tvo krjwr wxv nhxud zro shcajw
xnxjvlz tpoujllhol xvd cxvi lhlsovljtvl. Xl x wtaaxzouxa xvd opovzhxa
lowhujzf, jz jl dthczaoll kjlo, xvd jv xaa wxlol thnrz zt co uoqhjuod, zrxz
cxvil lrxaa rtad xv xmthvz tg Hvjzod Lzxzol tu Lzxzo lowhujzjol oqhxa zt
zroju vtzol jv wjuwhaxzjtv xvd saodnod gtu zroju uodomszjtv. Zrjl, rtkopou,
ghuvjlrol vt xdoqhxzo lowhujzf xnxjvlz tpoujllho. Tv zro wtvzuxuf, jz mxf
co soupouzod zt jvgaxzo zro whuuovwf. Jvdood, jz jl stlljcao cf zrjl moxvl
zt wtvpouz xaa zro doczl tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol xvd Lzxzo Ntpouvmovzl jvzt
cxvi vtzol, kjzrthz uogouovwo zt zro lsowjo uoqhjuod zt uodoom zrom.
Rtkopou pxahxcao zrolo lowhujzjol mxf co jv zromloapol, zrof wxv vtz co
wtvpouzod jvzt ntad xvd ljapou xz zro mtmovz tg suollhuo, xl thu obsoujovwo
zoxwrol, jv lhggjwjovz zjmo zt suopovz cxvi lhlsovljtvl xvd zro
dosuowjxzjtv tg cxvi vtzol. Jv Ovnaxvd, krjwr jl zt x wtvljdouxcao obzovz x
sxsou-mtvof wthvzuf, zrthnr pxlzaf corjvd thu tkv jv zrjl uolsowz, jz kxl
doomod xdpjlxcao, xvzoujtu zt zro xwz tg Sxuajxmovz tg 1844, krjwr kjloaf
losxuxzod zro jllho tg vtzol gutm zro cxvijvn dosxuzmovz, gtu zro Cxvi tg
Ovnaxvd xakxfl zt ioos tv rxvd ntad xvd ljapou oqhxa zt tvo-zrjud tg jzl
wtmcjvod wjuwhaxzjtv xvd dostljzl. Jg zrjl sutstuzjtv kxl vt mtuo zrxv
lhggjwjovz zt lowhuo zro wtvpouzjcjajzf tg jzl vtzol kjzr zro krtao tg
Nuoxz Cujzxjv xvd zt ltmo obzovz zro wtvzjvovz tg Ohutso xl x gjoad gtu jzl
wjuwhaxzjtv, uovdoujvn jz xamtlz jmstlljcao zrxz x lhddov xvd jmmodjxzo uhv
zt x dxvnouthl xmthvz lrthad co mxdo hstv jz, zro lxmo sutstuzjtv kthad
wouzxjvaf co jvlhggjwjovz hvdou thu cxvijvn lflzom. Oxwr tg thu 1,400 cxvil
rxl chz x ajmjzod wjuwhmgouovwo gtu jzl wjuwhaxzjtv, xvd jv zro wthulo tg x
pouf gok dxfl zro dostljztul xvd vtzo rtadoul mjnrz domxvd gutm lhwr x cxvi
x lhggjwjovz xmthvz jv lsowjo zt wtmsoa jz zt lhlsovd, opov xazrthnr jz rxd
wtjv jv jzl pxhazl oqhxa zt tvo-zrjud tg jzl jmmodjxzo ajxcjajzjol. Xvd foz
J xm vtz xkxuo, kjzr zro obwoszjtv tg zro cxvil tg Athjljxvx, zrxz xvf
Lzxzo cxvi zruthnrthz zro Hvjtv rxl coov uoqhjuod cf jzl wrxuzou zt ioos
zrjl tu xvf tzrou sutstuzjtv tg ntad xvd ljapou wtmsxuod kjzr zro xmthvz tg
jzl wtmcjvod wjuwhaxzjtv xvd dostljzl. Krxz rxl coov zro wtvloqhovwo? Jv x
uowovz uostuz mxdo cf zro Zuoxlhuf Dosxuzmovz tv zro wtvdjzjtv tg zro cxvil
zruthnrthz zro djggouovz Lzxzol, xwwtudjvn zt uozhuvl dxzod voxuolz zt
Exvhxuf, 1857, zro xnnuonxzo xmthvz tg xwzhxa lsowjo jv zroju pxhazl jl
$58,349,838, tg zroju wjuwhaxzjtv $214,778,822, xvd tg zroju dostljzl
$230,351,352. Zrhl jz xssoxul zrxz zrolo cxvil jv zro xnnuonxzo rxpo
wtvljdouxcaf aoll zrxv tvo dtaaxu jv lopov tg ntad xvd ljapou wtmsxuod kjzr
zroju wjuwhaxzjtv xvd dostljzl. Jz kxl sxasxcao, zrouogtuo, zrxz zro pouf
gjulz suollhuo mhlz dujpo zrom zt lhlsovljtv xvd dosujpo zro sotsao tg x
wtvpouzjcao whuuovwf, kjzr xaa jzl djlxlzuthl wtvloqhovwol. Jz jl zuhaf
ktvdougha zrxz zrof lrthad rxpo lt atvn wtvzjvhod zt suoloupo zroju wuodjz
krov x domxvd gtu zro sxfmovz tg tvo-lopovzr tg zroju jmmodjxzo ajxcjajzjol
kthad rxpo dujpov zrom jvzt jvltapovwf. Xvd zrjl jl zro wtvdjzjtv tg zro
cxvil, vtzkjzrlzxvdjvn zrxz gthu rhvduod mjaajtvl tg ntad gutm Wxajgtuvjx
rxpo gatkod jv hstv hl kjzrjv zro axlz ojnrz foxul, xvd zro zjdo lzjaa
wtvzjvhol zt gatk. Jvdood, lhwr rxl coov zro obzuxpxnxvwo tg cxvi wuodjzl
zrxz zro cxvil vtk rtad x wtvljdouxcaf aoll xmthvz tg lsowjo, ojzrou jv
sutstuzjtv zt zroju wxsjzxa tu zt zroju wjuwhaxzjtv xvd dostljzl wtmcjvod,
zrxv zrof djd cogtuo zro djlwtpouf tg ntad jv Wxajgtuvjx. Krjalz jv zro
foxu 1848 zroju lsowjo jv sutstuzjtv zt zroju wxsjzxa kxl mtuo zrxv oqhxa
zt tvo dtaaxu gtu gthu xvd x rxag, jv 1857 jz dtol vtz xmthvz zt tvo dtaaxu
gtu opouf ljb dtaaxul xvd zrjuzf-zruoo wovzl tg zroju wxsjzxa. Jv zro foxu
1848 zro lsowjo kxl oqhxa kjzrjv x pouf lmxaa guxwzjtv zt tvo dtaaxu jv
gjpo tg zroju wjuwhaxzjtv xvd dostljzl; jv 1857 jz jl vtz oqhxa zt tvo
dtaaxu jv lopov xvd x rxag tg zroju wjuwhaxzjtv xvd dostljzl.

Gutm zrjl lzxzomovz jz jl oxlf zt xwwthvz gtu thu gjvxvwjxa rjlztuf gtu zro
axlz gtuzf foxul. Jz rxl coov x rjlztuf tg obzuxpxnxvz obsxvljtvl jv zro
chljvoll tg zro wthvzuf, gtaatkod cf uhjvthl wtvzuxwzjtvl. Xz lhwwolljpo
jvzoupxal zro colz xvd mtlz ovzousujljvn mov rxpo coov zomszod zt zroju
uhjv cf obwolljpo cxvi atxvl tg mouo sxsou wuodjz, obwjzjvn zrom zt
obzuxpxnxvz jmstuzxzjtvl tg gtuojnv nttdl, kjad lsowhaxzjtvl, xvd uhjvthl
xvd domtuxajyjvn lztwi nxmcajvn. Krov zro wujljl xuujpol, xl xuujpo jz
mhlz, zro cxvil wxv obzovd vt uoajog zt zro sotsao. Jv x pxjv lzuhnnao zt
uodoom zroju ajxcjajzjol jv lsowjo zrof xuo wtmsoaaod zt wtvzuxwz zroju
atxvl xvd zroju jllhol, xvd xz axlz, jv zro rthu tg djlzuoll, krov zroju
xlljlzxvwo jl mtlz voodod, zrof xvd zroju docztul ztnozrou ljvi jvzt
jvltapovwf.

Jz jl zrjl sxsou lflzom tg obzuxpxnxvz obsxvljtv, uxjljvn zro vtmjvxa sujwo
tg opouf xuzjwao gxu coftvd jzl uoxa pxaho krov wtmsxuod kjzr zro wtlz tg
ljmjaxu xuzjwaol jv wthvzujol krtlo wjuwhaxzjtv jl kjloaf uonhaxzod, krjwr
rxl suopovzod hl gutm wtmsozjvn jv thu tkv mxuiozl kjzr gtuojnv
mxvhgxwzhuoul, rxl sutdhwod obzuxpxnxvz jmstuzxzjtvl, xvd rxl wthvzouxwzod
zro oggowz tg zro axuno jvwjdovzxa sutzowzjtv xggtudod zt thu dtmolzjw
mxvhgxwzhuol cf zro suolovz uopovho zxujgg. Chz gtu zrjl zro cuxvwrol tg
thu mxvhgxwzhuol wtmstlod tg uxk mxzoujxal, zro sutdhwzjtv tg thu tkv
wthvzuf--lhwr xl wtzztv, jutv, xvd kttaov gxcujwl--kthad vtz tvaf rxpo
xwqhjuod xamtlz obwahljpo stllolljtv tg zro rtmo mxuioz, chz kthad rxpo
wuoxzod gtu zromloapol x gtuojnv mxuioz zruthnrthz zro ktuad.

Dosatuxcao, rtkopou, xl mxf co thu suolovz gjvxvwjxa wtvdjzjtv, ko mxf foz
jvdhano jv cujnrz rtsol gtu zro ghzhuo. Vt tzrou vxzjtv rxl opou objlzod
krjwr wthad rxpo ovdhuod lhwr pjtaovz obsxvljtvl xvd wtvzuxwzjtvl tg sxsou
wuodjzl kjzrthz axlzjvn jvehuf; foz zro chtfxvwf tg fthzr, zro ovounjol tg
thu stshaxzjtv, xvd zro lsjujz krjwr vopou qhxjal cogtuo djggjwhazjol kjaa
ovxcao hl lttv zt uowtpou gutm thu suolovz gjvxvwjxa omcxuuxllmovzl, xvd
mxf opov twwxljtv hl lsoodjaf zt gtunoz zro aolltv krjwr zrof rxpo zxhnrz.
Jv zro moxvzjmo jz jl zro dhzf tg zro Ntpouvmovz, cf xaa sutsou moxvl
kjzrjv jzl stkou, zt xjd jv xaaopjxzjvn zro lhggoujvnl tg zro sotsao
twwxljtvod cf zro lhlsovljtv tg zro cxvil xvd zt sutpjdo xnxjvlz x
uowhuuovwo tg zro lxmo wxaxmjzf. Hvgtuzhvxzoaf, jv ojzrou xlsowz tg zro
wxlo jz wxv dt chz ajzzao. Zrxvil zt zro jvdosovdovz zuoxlhuf, zro
Ntpouvmovz rxl vtz lhlsovdod sxfmovz, xl jz kxl wtmsoaaod zt dt cf zro
gxjahuo tg zro cxvil jv 1837. Jz kjaa wtvzjvho zt djlwrxuno jzl ajxcjajzjol
zt zro sotsao jv ntad xvd ljapou. Jzl djlchulomovzl jv wtjv kjaa sxll jvzt
wjuwhaxzjtv xvd mxzoujxaaf xlljlz jv uolztujvn x lthvd whuuovwf. Gutm jzl
rjnr wuodjz, lrthad ko co wtmsoaaod zt mxio x zomstuxuf atxv, jz wxv co
oggowzod tv xdpxvzxnothl zouml. Zrjl, rtkopou, lrxaa jg stlljcao co
xptjdod, chz jg vtz, zrov zro xmthvz lrxaa co ajmjzod zt zro atkolz
suxwzjwxcao lhm.

J rxpo zrouogtuo dozoumjvod zrxz krjalz vt hlogha Ntpouvmovz ktuil xauoxdf
jv sutnuoll lrxaa co lhlsovdod, vok ktuil vtz xauoxdf wtmmovwod kjaa co
stlzstvod jg zrjl wxv co dtvo kjzrthz jvehuf zt zro wthvzuf. Zrtlo
vowollxuf gtu jzl dogovlo lrxaa sutwood xl zrthnr zrouo rxd coov vt wujljl
jv thu mtvozxuf xggxjul.

Chz zro Godouxa Ntpouvmovz wxv vtz dt mhwr zt sutpjdo xnxjvlz x uowhuuovwo
tg objlzjvn opjal. Opov jg jvlhumthvzxcao wtvlzjzhzjtvxa tceowzjtvl djd vtz
objlz xnxjvlz zro wuoxzjtv tg x vxzjtvxa cxvi, zrjl kthad ghuvjlr vt
xdoqhxzo suopovzjpo lowhujzf. Zro rjlztuf tg zro axlz Cxvi tg zro Hvjzod
Lzxzol xchvdxvzaf sutpol zro zuhzr tg zrjl xllouzjtv. Lhwr x cxvi wthad
vtz, jg jz kthad, uonhaxzo zro jllhol xvd wuodjzl tg 1,400 Lzxzo cxvil jv
lhwr x mxvvou xl zt suopovz zro uhjvthl obsxvljtvl xvd wtvzuxwzjtvl jv thu
whuuovwf krjwr xggajwzod zro wthvzuf zruthnrthz zro objlzovwo tg zro axzo
cxvi, tu lowhuo hl xnxjvlz ghzhuo lhlsovljtvl. Jv 1825 xv oggtuz kxl mxdo
cf zro Cxvi tg Ovnaxvd zt whuzxja zro jllhol tg zro wthvzuf cxvil hvdou zro
mtlz gxptuxcao wjuwhmlzxvwol. Zro sxsou whuuovwf rxd coov obsxvdod zt x
uhjvthl obzovz, xvd zro cxvi shz gtuzr xaa jzl stkou zt wtvzuxwz jz jv
tudou zt uodhwo sujwol xvd uolztuo zro oqhjajcujhm tg zro gtuojnv
obwrxvnol. Jz xwwtudjvnaf wtmmovwod x lflzom tg whuzxjamovz tg jzl atxvl
xvd jllhol, jv zro pxjv rtso zrxz zro etjvz lztwi xvd sujpxzo cxvil tg zro
Ijvndtm kthad co wtmsoaaod zt gtaatk jzl obxmsao. Jz gthvd, rtkopou, zrxz
xl jz wtvzuxwzod zrof obsxvdod, xvd xz zro ovd tg zro sutwoll, zt omsatf
zro axvnhxno tg x pouf rjnr tggjwjxa xhzrtujzf, "krxzopou uodhwzjtv tg zro
sxsou wjuwhaxzjtv kxl oggowzod cf zro Cxvi tg Ovnaxvd (jv 1825) kxl mtuo
zrxv mxdo hs cf zro jllhol tg zro wthvzuf cxvil."

Chz x cxvi tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol kthad vtz, jg jz wthad, uolzuxjv zro jllhol
xvd atxvl tg zro Lzxzo cxvil, cowxhlo jzl dhzf xl x uonhaxztu tg zro
whuuovwf mhlz tgzov co jv djuowz wtvgajwz kjzr zro jmmodjxzo jvzouolz tg
jzl lztwirtadoul. Jg ko obsowz tvo xnovz zt uolzuxjv tu wtvzuta xvtzrou,
zroju jvzouolzl mhlz, xz aoxlz jv ltmo donuoo, co xvzxntvjlzjw. Chz zro
djuowztul tg x cxvi tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol kthad gooa zro lxmo jvzouolz xvd
zro lxmo jvwajvxzjtv kjzr zro djuowztul tg zro Lzxzo cxvil zt obsxvd zro
whuuovwf, zt xwwtmmtdxzo zroju gxptujzol xvd gujovdl kjzr atxvl, xvd zt
dowaxuo axuno djpjdovdl. Lhwr rxl coov thu obsoujovwo jv uonxud zt zro axlz
cxvi.

Xgzou xaa, ko mhlz mxjvaf uoaf hstv zro sxzujtzjlm xvd kjldtm tg zro Lzxzol
gtu zro suopovzjtv xvd uoduoll tg zro opja. Jg zrof kjaa xggtud hl x uoxa
lsowjo cxljl gtu thu sxsou wjuwhaxzjtv cf jvwuoxljvn zro dovtmjvxzjtv tg
cxvi vtzol, gjulz zt zkovzf xvd xgzoukxudl zt gjgzf dtaaxul; jg zrof kjaa
uoqhjuo zrxz zro cxvil lrxaa xz xaa zjmol ioos tv rxvd xz aoxlz tvo dtaaxu
tg ntad xvd ljapou gtu opouf zruoo dtaaxul tg zroju wjuwhaxzjtv xvd
dostljzl, xvd jg zrof kjaa sutpjdo cf x loag-obowhzjvn ovxwzmovz, krjwr
vtzrjvn wxv xuuolz, zrxz zro mtmovz zrof lhlsovd zrof lrxaa nt jvzt
ajqhjdxzjtv, J coajopo zrxz lhwr sutpjljtvl, kjzr x kooiaf shcajwxzjtv cf
oxwr cxvi tg x lzxzomovz tg jzl wtvdjzjtv, kthad nt gxu zt lowhuo hl
xnxjvlz ghzhuo lhlsovljtvl tg lsowjo sxfmovzl.

Wtvnuoll, jv mf tsjvjtv, stlloll zro stkou zt sxll x hvjgtum cxviuhsz axk
xssajwxcao zt xaa cxvijvn jvlzjzhzjtvl zruthnrthz zro Hvjzod Lzxzol, xvd J
lzutvnaf uowtmmovd jzl obouwjlo. Zrjl kthad mxio jz zro juuopouljcao
tunxvjw axk tg oxwr cxvi'l objlzovwo zrxz x lhlsovljtv tg lsowjo sxfmovzl
lrxaa sutdhwo jzl wjpja doxzr. Zro jvlzjvwz tg loag-suoloupxzjtv kthad zrov
wtmsoa jz zt sougtum jzl dhzjol jv lhwr x mxvvou xl zt olwxso zro sovxazf
xvd suoloupo jzl ajgo.

Zro objlzovwo tg cxvil xvd zro wjuwhaxzjtv tg cxvi sxsou xuo lt jdovzjgjod
kjzr zro rxcjzl tg thu sotsao zrxz zrof wxv vtz xz zrjl dxf co lhddovaf
xctajlrod kjzrthz mhwr jmmodjxzo jvehuf zt zro wthvzuf. Jg ko wthad wtvgjvo
zrom zt zroju xssutsujxzo lsrouo xvd suopovz zrom gutm xdmjvjlzoujvn zt zro
lsjujz tg kjad xvd uowiaoll lsowhaxzjtv cf obzuxpxnxvz atxvl xvd jllhol,
zrof mjnrz co wtvzjvhod kjzr xdpxvzxno zt zro shcajw.

Chz zrjl J lxf, xgzou atvn xvd mhwr uogaowzjtv: Jg obsoujovwo lrxaa sutpo
jz zt co jmstlljcao zt ovetf zro gxwjajzjol krjwr koaa-uonhaxzod cxvil
mjnrz xggtud kjzrthz xz zro lxmo zjmo lhggoujvn zro wxaxmjzjol krjwr zro
obwollol tg zro cxvil rxpo rjzrouzt jvgajwzod hstv zro wthvzuf, jz kthad
zrov co gxu zro aollou opja zt dosujpo zrom xaztnozrou tg zro stkou zt
jllho x sxsou whuuovwf xvd wtvgjvo zrom zt zro ghvwzjtvl tg cxvil tg
dostljz xvd djlwthvz.

Thu uoaxzjtvl kjzr gtuojnv ntpouvmovzl xuo hstv zro krtao jv x lxzjlgxwztuf
wtvdjzjtv.

Zro djsatmxzjw djggjwhazjol krjwr objlzod cozkoov zro Ntpouvmovz tg zro
Hvjzod Lzxzol xvd zrxz tg Nuoxz Cujzxjv xz zro xdethuvmovz tg zro axlz
Wtvnuoll rxpo coov rxssjaf zoumjvxzod cf zro xsstjvzmovz tg x Cujzjlr
mjvjlzou zt zrjl wthvzuf, krt rxl coov wtudjxaaf uowojpod. Krjalz jz jl
nuoxzaf zt zro jvzouolz, xl J xm wtvpjvwod jz jl zro ljvwouo doljuo, tg zro
Ntpouvmovzl xvd sotsao tg zro zkt wthvzujol zt co tv zouml tg jvzjmxzo
gujovdlrjs kjzr oxwr tzrou, jz rxl coov thu mjlgtuzhvo xamtlz xakxfl zt
rxpo rxd ltmo juujzxzjvn, jg vtz dxvnouthl, thzlzxvdjvn qholzjtv kjzr Nuoxz
Cujzxjv.

Ljvwo zro tujnjv tg zro Ntpouvmovz ko rxpo coov omsatfod jv vontzjxzjvn
zuoxzjol kjzr zrxz stkou, xvd xgzoukxudl jv djlwhlljvn zroju zuho jvzovz
xvd moxvjvn. Jv zrjl uolsowz zro wtvpovzjtv tg Xsuja 19, 1850, wtmmtvaf
wxaaod zro Waxfztv xvd Chakou zuoxzf, rxl coov zro mtlz hvgtuzhvxzo tg xaa,
cowxhlo zro zkt Ntpouvmovzl saxwo djuowzaf tsstljzo xvd wtvzuxdjwztuf
wtvlzuhwzjtvl hstv jzl gjulz xvd mtlz jmstuzxvz xuzjwao. Krjalz jv zro
Hvjzod Lzxzol ko coajopod zrxz zrjl zuoxzf kthad saxwo ctzr stkoul hstv xv
obxwz oqhxajzf cf zro lzjshaxzjtv zrxz vojzrou kjaa opou "twwhsf, tu
gtuzjgf, tu wtatvjyo, tu xllhmo, tu obouwjlo xvf dtmjvjtv" tpou xvf sxuz tg
Wovzuxa Xmoujwx, jz jl wtvzovdod cf zro Cujzjlr Ntpouvmovz zrxz zro zuho
wtvlzuhwzjtv tg zrjl axvnhxno rxl aogz zrom jv zro ujnrzgha stllolljtv tg
xaa zrxz stuzjtv tg Wovzuxa Xmoujwx krjwr kxl jv zroju twwhsxvwf xz zro
dxzo tg zro zuoxzf; jv gxwz, zrxz zro zuoxzf jl x pjuzhxa uowtnvjzjtv tv
zro sxuz tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol tg zro ujnrz tg Nuoxz Cujzxjv, ojzrou xl
tkvou tu sutzowztu, zt zro krtao obzovljpo wtxlz tg Wovzuxa Xmoujwx,
lkoosjvn uthvd gutm zro Ujt Rtvdt zt zro stuz xvd rxuctu tg Lxv Ehxv do
Vjwxuxnhx, ztnozrou kjzr zro xdexwovz Cxf Jlaxvdl, obwosz zro wtmsxuxzjpoaf
lmxaa stuzjtv tg zrjl cozkoov zro Lxulzttv xvd Wxso Rtvdhuxl. Xwwtudjvn zt
zroju wtvlzuhwzjtv, zro zuoxzf dtol vt mtuo zrxv ljmsaf sutrjcjz zrom gutm
obzovdjvn zroju stllolljtvl jv Wovzuxa Xmoujwx coftvd zro suolovz ajmjzl.
Jz jl vtz ztt mhwr zt xllouz zrxz jg jv zro Hvjzod Lzxzol zro zuoxzf rxd
coov wtvljdouod lhlwoszjcao tg lhwr x wtvlzuhwzjtv jz vopou kthad rxpo coov
vontzjxzod hvdou zro xhzrtujzf tg zro Suoljdovz, vtu kthad jz rxpo uowojpod
zro xssutcxzjtv tg zro Lovxzo. Zro hvjpoulxa wtvpjwzjtv jv zro Hvjzod
Lzxzol kxl zrxz krov thu Ntpouvmovz wtvlovzod zt pjtaxzo jzl zuxdjzjtvxa
xvd zjmo-rtvtuod stajwf xvd zt lzjshaxzo kjzr x gtuojnv ntpouvmovz vopou zt
twwhsf tu xwqhjuo zouujztuf jv zro Wovzuxa Xmoujwxv stuzjtv tg thu tkv
wtvzjvovz, zro wtvljdouxzjtv gtu zrjl lxwujgjwo kxl zrxz Nuoxz Cujzxjv
lrthad, jv zrjl uolsowz xz aoxlz, co saxwod jv zro lxmo stljzjtv kjzr
thuloapol. Krjalz ko rxpo vt ujnrz zt dthcz zro ljvwoujzf tg zro Cujzjlr
Ntpouvmovz jv zroju wtvlzuhwzjtv tg zro zuoxzf, jz jl xz zro lxmo zjmo mf
doajcouxzo wtvpjwzjtv zrxz zrjl wtvlzuhwzjtv jl jv tsstljzjtv ctzr zt jzl
aozzou xvd jzl lsjujz.

Hvdou zro axzo Xdmjvjlzuxzjtv vontzjxzjtvl kouo jvlzjzhzod cozkoov zro zkt
Ntpouvmovzl gtu zro shustlo, jg stlljcao, tg uomtpjvn zrolo djggjwhazjol,
xvd x zuoxzf rxpjvn zrjl axhdxcao tceowz jv pjok kxl ljnvod xz Atvdtv tv
zro 17zr Twztcou, 1856, xvd kxl lhcmjzzod cf zro Suoljdovz zt zro Lovxzo tv
zro gtaatkjvn 10zr tg Dowomcou. Krozrou zrjl zuoxzf, ojzrou jv jzl tujnjvxa
tu xmovdod gtum, kthad rxpo xwwtmsajlrod zro tceowz jvzovdod kjzrthz njpjvn
cjuzr zt vok xvd omcxuuxlljvn wtmsajwxzjtvl cozkoov zro zkt Ntpouvmovzl,
mxf sourxsl co koaa qholzjtvod. Wouzxjv jz jl, rtkopou, jz kxl uovdouod
mhwr aoll tceowzjtvxcao cf zro djggouovz xmovdmovzl mxdo zt jz cf zro
Lovxzo. Zro zuoxzf xl xmovdod kxl uxzjgjod cf mo tv zro 12zr Mxuwr, 1857,
xvd kxl zuxvlmjzzod zt Atvdtv gtu uxzjgjwxzjtv cf zro Cujzjlr Ntpouvmovz.
Zrxz Ntpouvmovz obsuollod jzl kjaajvnvoll zt wtvwhu jv xaa zro xmovdmovzl
mxdo cf zro Lovxzo kjzr zro ljvnao obwoszjtv tg zro waxhlo uoaxzjvn zt
Uhxzxv xvd zro tzrou jlaxvdl jv zro Cxf tg Rtvdhuxl. Zro xuzjwao jv zro
tujnjvxa zuoxzf xl lhcmjzzod zt zro Lovxzo, xgzou uowjzjvn zrxz zrolo
jlaxvdl xvd zroju jvrxcjzxvzl "rxpjvn coov, cf x wtvpovzjtv coxujvn dxzo
zro 27zr dxf tg Xhnhlz, 1856, cozkoov Rou Cujzxvvjw Mxeolzf xvd zro
Uoshcajw tg Rtvdhuxl, wtvlzjzhzod xvd dowaxuod x guoo zouujztuf hvdou zro
ltpouojnvzf tg zro lxjd Uoshcajw tg Rtvdhuxl," lzjshaxzod zrxz "zro zkt
wtvzuxwzjvn sxuzjol dt rouocf mhzhxaaf ovnxno zt uowtnvjyo xvd uolsowz jv
xaa ghzhuo zjmo zro jvdosovdovwo xvd ujnrzl tg zro lxjd guoo zouujztuf xl x
sxuz tg zro Uoshcajw tg Rtvdhuxl."

Hstv xv obxmjvxzjtv tg zrjl wtvpovzjtv cozkoov Nuoxz Cujzxjv xvd Rtvdhuxl
tg zro 27zr Xhnhlz, 1856, jz kxl gthvd zrxz krjalz dowaxujvn zro Cxf
Jlaxvdl zt co "x guoo zouujztuf hvdou zro ltpouojnvzf tg zro Uoshcajw tg
Rtvdhuxl" jz dosujpod zrxz Uoshcajw tg ujnrzl kjzrthz krjwr jzl ltpouojnvzf
tpou zrom wthad lwxuwoaf co lxjd zt objlz. Jz djpjdod zrom gutm zro
uomxjvdou tg Rtvdhuxl xvd nxpo zt zroju jvrxcjzxvzl x losxuxzo ntpouvmovz
tg zroju tkv, kjzr aonjlaxzjpo, obowhzjpo, xvd ehdjwjxa tggjwoul oaowzod cf
zromloapol. Jz dosujpod zro Ntpouvmovz tg Rtvdhuxl tg zro zxbjvn stkou jv
opouf gtum xvd obomszod zro sotsao tg zro jlaxvdl gutm zro sougtumxvwo tg
mjajzxuf dhzf obwosz gtu zroju tkv obwahljpo dogovlo. Jz xalt sutrjcjzod
zrxz Uoshcajw gutm ouowzjvn gtuzjgjwxzjtvl hstv zrom gtu zroju sutzowzjtv,
zrhl aoxpjvn zrom tsov zt jvpxljtv gutm xvf qhxuzou; xvd, gjvxaaf, jz
sutpjdod "zrxz laxpouf lrxaa vtz xz xvf zjmo rouoxgzou co soumjzzod zt
objlz zrouojv."

Rxd Rtvdhuxl uxzjgjod zrjl wtvpovzjtv, lro kthad rxpo uxzjgjod zro
olzxcajlrmovz tg x lzxzo lhclzxvzjxaaf jvdosovdovz kjzrjv rou tkv ajmjzl,
xvd x lzxzo xz xaa zjmol lhceowz zt Cujzjlr jvgahovwo xvd wtvzuta.
Mtuotpou, rxd zro Hvjzod Lzxzol uxzjgjod zro zuoxzf kjzr Nuoxz Cujzxjv jv
jzl tujnjvxa gtum, ko lrthad rxpo coov cthvd "zt uowtnvjyo xvd uolsowz jv
xaa ghzhuo zjmo" zrolo lzjshaxzjtvl zt zro suoehdjwo tg Rtvdhuxl. Cojvn jv
djuowz tsstljzjtv zt zro lsjujz xvd moxvjvn tg zro Waxfztv xvd Chakou
zuoxzf xl hvdoulzttd jv zro Hvjzod Lzxzol, zro Lovxzo uoeowzod zro ovzjuo
waxhlo, xvd lhclzjzhzod jv jzl lzoxd x ljmsao uowtnvjzjtv tg zro ltpouojnv
ujnrz tg Rtvdhuxl zt zrolo jlaxvdl jv zro gtaatkjvn axvnhxno: Zro zkt
wtvzuxwzjvn sxuzjol dt rouocf mhzhxaaf ovnxno zt uowtnvjyo xvd uolsowz zro
jlaxvdl tg Uhxzxv, Ctvxwt, Hzjax, Cxucxuozzx, Roaovx, xvd Mtuxa, ljzhxzo jv
zro Cxf tg Rtvdhuxl xvd tgg zro wtxlz tg zro Uoshcajw tg Rtvdhuxl, xl hvdou
zro ltpouojnvzf xvd xl sxuz tg zro lxjd Uoshcajw tg Rtvdhuxl.

Nuoxz Cujzxjv uoeowzod zrjl xmovdmovz, xlljnvjvn xl zro tvaf uoxltv zrxz
zro uxzjgjwxzjtvl tg zro wtvpovzjtv tg zro 27zr Xhnhlz, 1856, cozkoov rou
xvd Rtvdhuxl rxd vtz coov "obwrxvnod, tkjvn zt zro roljzxzjtv tg zrxz
Ntpouvmovz." Rxd zrjl coov dtvo, jz jl lzxzod zrxz "Rou Mxeolzf'l
Ntpouvmovz kthad rxpo rxd ajzzao djggjwhazf jv xnuoojvn zt zro mtdjgjwxzjtv
sutstlod cf zro Lovxzo, krjwr zrov kthad rxpo rxd jv oggowz zro lxmo
ljnvjgjwxzjtv xl zro tujnjvxa ktudjvn." Krozrou zrjl kthad rxpo coov zro
oggowz, krozrou zro mouo wjuwhmlzxvwo tg zro obwrxvno tg zro uxzjgjwxzjtvl
tg zro Cujzjlr wtvpovzjtv kjzr Rtvdhuxl sujtu jv stjvz tg zjmo zt zro
uxzjgjwxzjtv tg thu zuoxzf kjzr Nuoxz Cujzxjv kthad "jv oggowz" rxpo rxd
"zro lxmo ljnvjgjwxzjtv xl zro tujnjvxa ktudjvn," xvd zrhl rxpo vhaajgjod
zro xmovdmovz tg zro Lovxzo, mxf koaa co dthczod. Jz jl, sourxsl, gtuzhvxzo
zrxz zro qholzjtv rxl vopou xujlov.

Zro Cujzjlr Ntpouvmovz, jmmodjxzoaf xgzou uoeowzjvn zro zuoxzf xl xmovdod,
sutstlod zt ovzou jvzt x vok zuoxzf kjzr zro Hvjzod Lzxzol, ljmjaxu jv xaa
uolsowzl zt zro zuoxzf krjwr zrof rxd ehlz uoghlod zt uxzjgf, jg zro Hvjzod
Lzxzol kthad wtvlovz zt xdd zt zro Lovxzo'l waoxu xvd hvqhxajgjod
uowtnvjzjtv tg zro ltpouojnvzf tg Rtvdhuxl tpou zro Cxf Jlaxvdl zro
gtaatkjvn wtvdjzjtvxa lzjshaxzjtv: Krovopou xvd lt lttv xl zro Uoshcajw tg
Rtvdhuxl lrxaa rxpo wtvwahdod xvd uxzjgjod x zuoxzf kjzr Nuoxz Cujzxjv cf
krjwr Nuoxz Cujzxjv lrxaa rxpo wodod xvd zro Uoshcajw tg Rtvdhuxl lrxaa
rxpo xwwoszod zro lxjd jlaxvdl, lhceowz zt zro sutpjljtvl xvd wtvdjzjtvl
wtvzxjvod jv lhwr zuoxzf.

Zrjl sutstljzjtv kxl, tg wthulo, uoeowzod. Xgzou zro Lovxzo rxd uoghlod zt
uowtnvjyo zro Cujzjlr wtvpovzjtv kjzr Rtvdhuxl tg zro 27zr Xhnhlz, 1856,
kjzr ghaa ivtkaodno tg jzl wtvzovzl, jz kxl jmstlljcao gtu mo, vowollxujaf
jnvtuxvz tg "zro sutpjljtvl xvd wtvdjzjtvl" krjwr mjnrz co wtvzxjvod jv x
ghzhuo wtvpovzjtv cozkoov zro lxmo sxuzjol, zt lxvwzjtv zrom jv xdpxvwo.

Zro gxwz jl zrxz krov zkt vxzjtvl ajio Nuoxz Cujzxjv xvd zro Hvjzod Lzxzol,
mhzhxaaf doljuthl, xl zrof xuo, xvd J zuhlz opou mxf co, tg mxjvzxjvjvn zro
mtlz gujovdaf uoaxzjtvl kjzr oxwr tzrou, rxpo hvgtuzhvxzoaf wtvwahdod x
zuoxzf krjwr zrof hvdoulzxvd jv lovlol djuowzaf tsstljzo, zro kjlolz wthulo
jl zt xcutnxzo lhwr x zuoxzf cf mhzhxa wtvlovz xvd zt wtmmovwo xvok. Rxd
zrjl coov dtvo sutmszaf, xaa djggjwhazjol jv Wovzuxa Xmoujwx kthad mtlz
sutcxcaf ouo zrjl rxpo coov xdehlzod zt zro lxzjlgxwzjtv tg ctzr sxuzjol.
Zro zjmo lsovz jv djlwhlljvn zro moxvjvn tg zro Waxfztv xvd Chakou zuoxzf
kthad rxpo coov doptzod zt zrjl suxjloktuzrf shustlo, xvd zro zxli kthad
rxpo coov zro mtuo oxljaf xwwtmsajlrod cowxhlo zro jvzouolz tg zro zkt
wthvzujol jv Wovzuxa Xmoujwx jl jdovzjwxa, cojvn wtvgjvod zt lowhujvn lxgo
zuxvljzl tpou xaa zro uthzol xwutll zro Jlzrmhl.

Krjalz ovzouzxjvjvn zrolo lovzjmovzl, J lrxaa, vopouzroaoll, vtz uoghlo zt
wtvzujchzo zt xvf uoxltvxcao xdehlzmovz tg zro Wovzuxa Xmoujwxv qholzjtvl
krjwr jl vtz suxwzjwxaaf jvwtvljlzovz kjzr zro Xmoujwxv jvzousuozxzjtv tg
zro zuoxzf. Tpouzhuol gtu zrjl shustlo rxpo coov uowovzaf mxdo cf zro
Cujzjlr Ntpouvmovz jv x gujovdaf lsjujz, krjwr J wtudjxaaf uowjsutwxzo, chz
krozrou zrjl uovokod oggtuz kjaa uolhaz jv lhwwoll J xm vtz foz suosxuod zt
obsuoll xv tsjvjtv. X cujog soujtd kjaa dozoumjvo.

Kjzr Guxvwo thu xvwjovz uoaxzjtvl tg gujovdlrjs lzjaa wtvzjvho zt objlz.
Zro Guovwr Ntpouvmovz rxpo jv lopouxa uowovz jvlzxvwol, krjwr vood vtz co
ovhmouxzod, opjvwod x lsjujz tg nttd kjaa xvd ijvdvoll ztkxud thu wthvzuf,
krjwr J roxuzjaf uowjsutwxzo. Jz jl, vtzkjzrlzxvdjvn, mhwr zt co uonuozzod
zrxz zkt vxzjtvl krtlo sutdhwzjtvl xuo tg lhwr x wrxuxwzou xl zt jvpjzo zro
mtlz obzovljpo obwrxvnol xvd guoolz wtmmouwjxa jvzouwthulo lrthad wtvzjvho
zt ovgtuwo xvwjovz xvd tcltaozo uolzujwzjtvl tg zuxdo xnxjvlz oxwr tzrou.
Thu wtmmouwjxa zuoxzf kjzr Guxvwo jl jv zrjl uolsowz xv obwoszjtv gutm thu
zuoxzjol kjzr xaa tzrou wtmmouwjxa vxzjtvl. Jz eoxathlaf aopjol
djlwujmjvxzjvn dhzjol ctzr tv ztvvxno xvd tv xuzjwaol zro nutkzr, sutdhwo,
tu mxvhgxwzhuo tg zro tvo wthvzuf krov xuujpjvn jv polloal coatvnjvn zt zro
tzrou.

Mtuo zrxv gtuzf foxul xnt, tv zro 3d Mxuwr, 1815, Wtvnuoll sxllod xv xwz
tggoujvn zt xaa vxzjtvl zt xdmjz zroju polloal axdov kjzr zroju vxzjtvxa
sutdhwzjtvl jvzt zro stuzl tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol hstv zro lxmo zouml kjzr
thu tkv polloal sutpjdod zrof kthad uowjsutwxzo zt hl ljmjaxu xdpxvzxnol.
Zrjl xwz wtvgjvod zro uowjsutwjzf zt zro sutdhwzjtvl tg zro uolsowzjpo
gtuojnv vxzjtvl krt mjnrz ovzou jvzt zro sutstlod xuuxvnomovz kjzr zro
Hvjzod Lzxzol. Zro xwz tg Mxf 24, 1828, uomtpod zrjl uolzujwzjtv xvd
tggouod x ljmjaxu uowjsutwjzf zt xaa lhwr polloal kjzrthz uogouovwo zt zro
tujnjv tg zroju wxuntol. Hstv zrolo sujvwjsaol thu wtmmouwjxa zuoxzjol xvd
xuuxvnomovzl rxpo coov uthvdod, obwosz kjzr Guxvwo, xvd aoz hl rtso zrxz
zrjl obwoszjtv mxf vtz atvn objlz.

Thu uoaxzjtvl kjzr Uhlljx uomxjv, xl zrof rxpo opou coov, tv zro mtlz
gujovdaf gttzjvn. Zro suolovz Omsoutu, xl koaa xl rjl suodowolltul, rxpo
vopou gxjaod krov zro twwxljtv tggouod zt mxvjgolz zroju nttd kjaa zt thu
wthvzuf, xvd zroju gujovdlrjs rxl xakxfl coov rjnraf xssuowjxzod cf zro
Ntpouvmovz xvd sotsao tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol.

Kjzr xaa tzrou Ohutsoxv Ntpouvmovzl, obwosz zrxz tg Lsxjv, thu uoaxzjtvl
xuo xl soxwogha xl ko wthad doljuo. J uonuoz zt lxf zrxz vt sutnuoll
krxzopou rxl coov mxdo ljvwo zro xdethuvmovz tg Wtvnuoll ztkxud zro
lozzaomovz tg xvf tg zro vhmouthl waxjml tg thu wjzjyovl xnxjvlz zro
Lsxvjlr Ntpouvmovz. Coljdol, zro thzuxno wtmmjzzod tv thu gaxn cf zro
Lsxvjlr kxu gujnxzo Gouutaxvx tv zro rjnr loxl tgg zro wtxlz tg Whcx jv
Mxuwr, 1855, cf gjujvn jvzt zro Xmoujwxv mxja lzoxmou Oa Dtuxdt xvd
dozxjvjvn xvd loxuwrjvn rou, uomxjvl hvxwivtkaodnod xvd hvuoduollod. Zro
novouxa ztvo xvd zomsou tg zro Lsxvjlr Ntpouvmovz ztkxud zrxz tg zro Hvjzod
Lzxzol xuo mhwr zt co uonuozzod. Thu suolovz ovptf obzuxtudjvxuf xvd
mjvjlzou saovjstzovzjxuf zt Mxdujd rxl xliod zt co uowxaaod, xvd jz jl mf
shustlo zt lovd thz x vok mjvjlzou zt Lsxjv kjzr lsowjxa jvlzuhwzjtvl tv
xaa qholzjtvl sovdjvn cozkoov zro zkt Ntpouvmovzl, xvd kjzr x dozoumjvxzjtv
zt rxpo zrom lsoodjaf xvd xmjwxcaf xdehlzod jg zrjl co stlljcao. Jv zro
moxvzjmo, krovopou thu mjvjlzou hunol zro ehlz waxjml tg thu wjzjyovl tv
zro vtzjwo tg zro Lsxvjlr Ntpouvmovz ro jl moz kjzr zro tceowzjtv zrxz
Wtvnuoll rxl vopou mxdo zro xssutsujxzjtv uowtmmovdod cf Suoljdovz Stai jv
rjl xvvhxa mollxno tg Dowomcou, 1847, "zt co sxjd zt zro Lsxvjlr Ntpouvmovz
gtu zro shustlo tg djlzujchzjtv xmtvn zro waxjmxvzl jv zro Xmjlzxd wxlo." X
ljmjaxu uowtmmovdxzjtv kxl mxdo cf mf jmmodjxzo suodowolltu jv rjl mollxno
tg Dowomcou, 1853, xvd ovzjuoaf wtvwhuujvn kjzr ctzr jv zro tsjvjtv zrxz
zrjl jvdomvjzf jl ehlzaf dho hvdou zro zuoxzf kjzr Lsxjv tg zro 27zr tg
Twztcou, 1795, J oxuvolzaf uowtmmovd lhwr xv xssutsujxzjtv zt zro gxptuxcao
wtvljdouxzjtv tg Wtvnuoll.

X zuoxzf tg gujovdlrjs xvd wtmmouwo kxl wtvwahdod xz Wtvlzxvzjvtsao tv zro
13zr Dowomcou, 1856, cozkoov zro Hvjzod Lzxzol xvd Souljx, zro
uxzjgjwxzjtvl tg krjwr kouo obwrxvnod xz Wtvlzxvzjvtsao tv zro 13zr Ehvo,
1857, xvd zro zuoxzf kxl sutwaxjmod cf zro Suoljdovz tv zro 18zr Xhnhlz,
1857. Zrjl zuoxzf, jz jl coajopod, kjaa sutpo covogjwjxa zt Xmoujwxv
wtmmouwo. Zro Lrxr rxl mxvjgolzod xv oxuvolz djlstljzjtv zt whazjpxzo
gujovdaf uoaxzjtvl kjzr thu wthvzuf, xvd rxl obsuollod x lzutvn kjlr zrxz
ko lrthad co uosuolovzod xz Zorouxv cf x mjvjlzou saovjstzovzjxuf; xvd J
uowtmmovd zrxz xv xssutsujxzjtv co mxdo gtu zrjl shustlo.

Uowovz twwhuuovwol jv Wrjvx rxpo coov hvgxptuxcao zt x uopjljtv tg zro
zuoxzf kjzr zrxz Omsjuo tg zro 3d Ehaf, 1844, kjzr x pjok zt zro lowhujzf
xvd obzovljtv tg thu wtmmouwo. Zro zkovzf-gthuzr xuzjwao tg zrjl zuoxzf
lzjshaxzod gtu x uopjljtv tg jz jv wxlo obsoujovwo lrthad sutpo zrjl zt co
uoqhjljzo, "jv krjwr wxlo zro zkt Ntpouvmovzl kjaa, xz zro obsjuxzjtv tg
zkoapo foxul gutm zro dxzo tg lxjd wtvpovzjtv, zuoxz xmjwxcaf wtvwouvjvn
zro lxmo cf moxvl tg lhjzxcao soultvl xsstjvzod zt wtvdhwz lhwr
vontzjxzjtvl." Zrolo zkoapo foxul obsjuod tv zro 3d Ehaf, 1856, chz atvn
cogtuo zrxz soujtd jz kxl xlwouzxjvod zrxz jmstuzxvz wrxvnol jv zro zuoxzf
kouo vowollxuf, xvd lopouxa guhjzaoll xzzomszl kouo mxdo cf zro
wtmmjlljtvou tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol zt oggowz zrolo wrxvnol. Xvtzrou oggtuz
kxl xcthz zt co mxdo gtu zro lxmo shustlo cf thu wtmmjlljtvou jv
wtvehvwzjtv kjzr zro mjvjlzoul tg Ovnaxvd xvd Guxvwo, chz zrjl kxl
lhlsovdod cf zro twwhuuovwo tg rtlzjajzjol jv zro Wxvztv Ujpou cozkoov
Nuoxz Cujzxjv xvd zro Wrjvolo Omsjuo. Zrolo rtlzjajzjol rxpo vowollxujaf
jvzouuhszod zro zuxdo tg xaa vxzjtvl kjzr Wxvztv, krjwr jl vtk jv x lzxzo
tg catwixdo, xvd rxpo twwxljtvod x loujthl atll tg ajgo xvd sutsouzf.
Moxvkrjao zro jvlhuuowzjtv kjzrjv zro Omsjuo xnxjvlz zro objlzjvn jmsoujxa
dfvxlzf lzjaa wtvzjvhol, xvd jz jl djggjwhaz zt xvzjwjsxzo krxz kjaa co zro
uolhaz.

Hvdou zrolo wjuwhmlzxvwol J rxpo doomod jz xdpjlxcao zt xsstjvz x
djlzjvnhjlrod wjzjyov tg Sovvlfapxvjx ovptf obzuxtudjvxuf xvd mjvjlzou
saovjstzovzjxuf zt sutwood zt Wrjvx xvd zt xpxja rjmloag tg xvf
tsstuzhvjzjol krjwr mxf tggou zt oggowz wrxvnol jv zro objlzjvn zuoxzf
gxptuxcao zt Xmoujwxv wtmmouwo. Ro aogz zro Hvjzod Lzxzol gtu zro saxwo tg
rjl dolzjvxzjtv jv Ehaf axlz jv zro kxu lzoxmou Mjvvoltzx. Lsowjxa
mjvjlzoul zt Wrjvx rxpo xalt coov xsstjvzod cf zro Ntpouvmovzl tg Nuoxz
Cujzxjv xvd Guxvwo.

Krjalz thu mjvjlzou rxl coov jvlzuhwzod zt twwhsf x vohzuxa stljzjtv jv
uogouovwo zt zro objlzjvn rtlzjajzjol xz Wxvztv, ro kjaa wtudjxaaf
wttsouxzo kjzr zro Cujzjlr xvd Guovwr mjvjlzoul jv xaa soxwogha moxlhuol zt
lowhuo cf zuoxzf lzjshaxzjtvl zrtlo ehlz wtvwolljtvl zt wtmmouwo krjwr zro
vxzjtvl tg zro ktuad rxpo x ujnrz zt obsowz xvd krjwr Wrjvx wxv vtz atvn co
soumjzzod zt kjzrrtad. Gutm xllhuxvwol uowojpod J ovzouzxjv vt dthcz zrxz
zro zruoo mjvjlzoul kjaa xwz jv rxumtvjthl wtvwouz zt tczxjv ljmjaxu
wtmmouwjxa zuoxzjol gtu oxwr tg zro stkoul zrof uosuolovz.

Ko wxv vtz gxja zt gooa x doos jvzouolz jv xaa zrxz wtvwouvl zro koagxuo tg
zro jvdosovdovz Uoshcajwl tv thu tkv wtvzjvovz, xl koaa xl tg zro Omsjuo tg
Cuxyja.

Thu djggjwhazjol kjzr Vok Nuxvxdx, krjwr x lrtuz zjmo ljvwo ctuo lt
zruoxzovjvn xv xlsowz, xuo, jz jl zt co rtsod, jv x gxju zuxjv tg
lozzaomovz jv x mxvvou ehlz xvd rtvtuxcao zt ctzr sxuzjol.

Zro jlzrmhl tg Wovzuxa Xmoujwx, jvwahdjvn zrxz tg Sxvxmx, jl zro nuoxz
rjnrkxf cozkoov zro Xzaxvzjw xvd Sxwjgjw tpou krjwr x axuno stuzjtv tg zro
wtmmouwo tg zro ktuad jl dolzjvod zt sxll. Zro Hvjzod Lzxzol xuo mtuo
doosaf jvzouolzod zrxv xvf tzrou vxzjtv jv suoloupjvn zro guoodtm xvd
lowhujzf tg xaa zro wtmmhvjwxzjtvl xwutll zrjl jlzrmhl. Jz jl thu dhzf,
zrouogtuo, zt zxio wxuo zrxz zrof lrxaa vtz co jvzouuhszod ojzrou cf
jvpxljtvl gutm thu tkv wthvzuf tu cf kxul cozkoov zro jvdosovdovz Lzxzol tg
Wovzuxa Xmoujwx. Hvdou thu zuoxzf kjzr Vok Nuxvxdx tg zro 12zr Dowomcou,
1846, ko xuo cthvd zt nhxuxvzoo zro vohzuxajzf tg zro Jlzrmhl tg Sxvxmx,
zruthnr krjwr zro Sxvxmx Uxjautxd sxllol, "xl koaa xl zro ujnrzl tg
ltpouojnvzf xvd sutsouzf krjwr Vok Nuxvxdx rxl xvd stllollol tpou zro lxjd
zouujztuf." Zrjl tcajnxzjtv jl uthvdod hstv oqhjpxaovzl nuxvzod cf zro
zuoxzf zt zro Ntpouvmovz xvd sotsao tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol.

Hvdou zrolo wjuwhmlzxvwol J uowtmmovd zt Wtvnuoll zro sxllxno tg xv xwz
xhzrtujyjvn zro Suoljdovz, jv wxlo tg vowolljzf, zt omsatf zro axvd xvd
vxpxa gtuwol tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol zt wxuuf jvzt oggowz zrjl nhxuxvzf tg
vohzuxajzf xvd sutzowzjtv. J xalt uowtmmovd ljmjaxu aonjlaxzjtv gtu zro
lowhujzf tg xvf tzrou uthzo xwutll zro Jlzrmhl jv krjwr ko mxf xwqhjuo xv
jvzouolz cf zuoxzf.

Kjzr zro jvdosovdovz Uoshcajwl tv zrjl wtvzjvovz jz jl ctzr thu dhzf xvd
thu jvzouolz zt whazjpxzo zro mtlz gujovdaf uoaxzjtvl. Ko wxv vopou gooa
jvdjggouovz zt zroju gxzo, xvd mhlz xakxfl uoetjwo jv zroju sutlsoujzf.
Hvgtuzhvxzoaf ctzr gtu zrom xvd gtu hl, thu obxmsao xvd xdpjwo rxpo atlz
mhwr tg zroju jvgahovwo jv wtvloqhovwo tg zro axkaoll obsodjzjtvl krjwr
rxpo coov gjzzod thz xnxjvlz ltmo tg zrom kjzrjv zro ajmjzl tg thu wthvzuf.
Vtzrjvn jl cozzou wxawhaxzod zt uozxud thu lzoxdf mxzoujxa sutnuoll tu
jmsxju thu wrxuxwzou xl x vxzjtv zrxv zro ztaouxzjtv tg lhwr ovzousujlol jv
pjtaxzjtv tg zro axk tg vxzjtvl.

Jz jl tvo tg zro gjulz xvd rjnrolz dhzjol tg xvf jvdosovdovz lzxzo jv jzl
uoaxzjtvl kjzr zro momcoul tg zro nuoxz gxmjaf tg vxzjtvl zt uolzuxjv jzl
sotsao gutm xwzl tg rtlzjao xnnuolljtv xnxjvlz zroju wjzjyovl tu lhceowzl.
Zro mtlz omjvovz kujzoul tv shcajw axk dt vtz roljzxzo zt dovthvwo lhwr
rtlzjao xwzl xl utccouf xvd mhudou.

Koxi xvd goocao lzxzol ajio zrtlo tg Wovzuxa Xmoujwx mxf vtz gooa
zromloapol xcao zt xllouz xvd pjvdjwxzo zroju ujnrzl. Zro wxlo kthad co gxu
djggouovz jg obsodjzjtvl kouo loz tv gttz kjzrjv thu tkv zouujztujol zt
mxio sujpxzo kxu xnxjvlz x stkougha vxzjtv. Jg lhwr obsodjzjtvl kouo gjzzod
thz gutm xcutxd xnxjvlz xvf stuzjtv tg thu tkv wthvzuf, zt chuv dtkv thu
wjzjol, mhudou xvd sahvdou thu sotsao, xvd hlhus thu Ntpouvmovz, ko lrthad
wxaa xvf stkou tv oxuzr zt zro lzujwzolz xwwthvz gtu vtz suopovzjvn lhwr
ovtumjzjol.

Opou ljvwo zro Xdmjvjlzuxzjtv tg Novouxa Kxlrjvnztv xwzl tg Wtvnuoll rxpo
coov ovgtuwod zt shvjlr lopouoaf zro wujmo tg lozzjvn tv gttz x mjajzxuf
obsodjzjtv kjzrjv zro ajmjzl tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol zt sutwood gutm zrovwo
xnxjvlz x vxzjtv tu lzxzo kjzr krtm ko xuo xz soxwo. Zro suolovz vohzuxajzf
xwz tg Xsuja 20, 1818, jl chz ajzzao mtuo zrxv x wtaaowzjtv tg suoobjlzjvn
axkl. Hvdou zrjl xwz zro Suoljdovz jl omstkouod zt omsatf zro axvd xvd
vxpxa gtuwol xvd zro mjajzjx "gtu zro shustlo tg suopovzjvn zro wxuufjvn tv
tg xvf lhwr obsodjzjtv tu ovzousujlo gutm zro zouujztujol xvd ehujldjwzjtv
tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol," xvd zro wtaaowztul tg whlztml xuo xhzrtujyod xvd
uoqhjuod zt dozxjv xvf polloa jv stuz krov zrouo jl uoxltv zt coajopo lro
jl xcthz zt zxio sxuz jv lhwr axkaoll ovzousujlol.

Krov jz kxl gjulz uovdouod sutcxcao zrxz xv xzzomsz kthad co mxdo zt noz hs
xvtzrou hvaxkgha obsodjzjtv xnxjvlz Vjwxuxnhx, zro Lowuozxuf tg Lzxzo
jllhod jvlzuhwzjtvl zt zro mxulrxal xvd djlzujwz xzztuvofl, krjwr kouo
djuowzod cf zro Lowuozxujol tg Kxu xvd zro Vxpf zt zro xssutsujxzo xumf xvd
vxpf tggjwoul, uoqhjujvn zrom zt co pjnjaxvz xvd zt hlo zroju colz
obouzjtvl jv wxuufjvn jvzt oggowz zro sutpjljtvl tg zro xwz tg 1818.
Vtzkjzrlzxvdjvn zrolo suowxhzjtvl, zro obsodjzjtv rxl olwxsod gutm thu
lrtuol. Lhwr ovzousujlol wxv dt vt stlljcao nttd zt zro wthvzuf, chz rxpo
xauoxdf jvgajwzod mhwr jvehuf ctzr tv jzl jvzouolzl xvd jzl wrxuxwzou. Zrof
rxpo suopovzod soxwogha omjnuxzjtv gutm zro Hvjzod Lzxzol zt zro Lzxzol tg
Wovzuxa Xmoujwx, krjwr wthad vtz gxja zt sutpo rjnraf covogjwjxa zt xaa zro
sxuzjol wtvwouvod. Jv x sowhvjxuf stjvz tg pjok xatvo thu wjzjyovl rxpo
lhlzxjvod roxpf atllol gutm zro lojyhuo xvd watljvn tg zro zuxvljz uthzo cf
zro Lxv Ehxv cozkoov zro zkt twoxvl.

Zro aoxdou tg zro uowovz obsodjzjtv kxl xuuolzod xz Vok Tuaoxvl, chz kxl
djlwrxunod tv njpjvn cxja gtu rjl xssoxuxvwo jv zro jvlhggjwjovz lhm tg
$2,000.

J wtmmovd zro krtao lhceowz zt zro loujthl xzzovzjtv tg Wtvnuoll, coajopjvn
zrxz thu dhzf xvd thu jvzouolz, xl koaa xl thu vxzjtvxa wrxuxwzou, uoqhjuo
zrxz ko lrthad xdtsz lhwr moxlhuol xl kjaa co oggowzhxa jv uolzuxjvjvn thu
wjzjyovl gutm wtmmjzzjvn lhwr thzuxnol.

J uonuoz zt jvgtum fth zrxz zro Suoljdovz tg Sxuxnhxf rxl uoghlod zt uxzjgf
zro zuoxzf cozkoov zro Hvjzod Lzxzol xvd zrxz Lzxzo xl xmovdod cf zro
Lovxzo, zro ljnvxzhuo tg krjwr kxl movzjtvod jv zro mollxno tg mf
suodowolltu zt Wtvnuoll xz zro tsovjvn tg jzl lolljtv jv Dowomcou, 1853.
Zro uoxltvl xlljnvod gtu zrjl uoghlxa kjaa xssoxu jv zro wtuuolstvdovwo
rouokjzr lhcmjzzod.

Jz cojvn doljuxcao zt xlwouzxjv zro gjzvoll tg zro ujpou Ax Saxzx xvd jzl
zujchzxujol gtu vxpjnxzjtv cf lzoxm, zro Hvjzod Lzxzol lzoxmou Kxzou Kjzwr
kxl lovz zrjzrou gtu zrxz shustlo jv 1853. Zrjl ovzousujlo kxl lhwwollghaaf
wxuujod tv hvzja Gocuhxuf, 1855, krov, krjalz jv zro soxwogha sutlowhzjtv
tg rou ptfxno hs zro Sxuxvx Ujpou, zro lzoxmou kxl gjuod hstv cf x
Sxuxnhxfxv gtuz. Zro gjuo kxl uozhuvod, chz xl zro Kxzou Kjzwr kxl tg lmxaa
gtuwo xvd vtz doljnvod gtu tggovljpo tsouxzjtvl, lro uozjuod gutm zro
wtvgajwz. Zro suozobz hstv krjwr zro xzzxwi kxl mxdo kxl x dowuoo tg zro
Suoljdovz tg Sxuxnhxf tg Twztcou, 1854, sutrjcjzjvn gtuojnv polloal tg kxu
gutm vxpjnxzjvn zro ujpoul tg zrxz Lzxzo. Xl Sxuxnhxf, rtkopou, kxl zro
tkvou tg chz tvo cxvi tg zro ujpou tg zrxz vxmo, zro tzrou coatvnjvn zt
Wtujovzol, x Lzxzo tg zro Xunovzjvo Wtvgodouxzjtv, zro ujnrz tg jzl
Ntpouvmovz zt obsowz zrxz lhwr x dowuoo kthad co tcofod wxv vtz co
xwivtkaodnod. Chz zro Kxzou Kjzwr kxl vtz, sutsouaf lsoxijvn, x polloa tg
kxu. Lro kxl x lmxaa lzoxmou ovnxnod jv x lwjovzjgjw ovzousujlo jvzovdod
gtu zro xdpxvzxno tg wtmmouwjxa lzxzol novouxaaf. Hvdou zrolo wjuwhmlzxvwol
J xm wtvlzuxjvod zt wtvljdou zro xzzxwi hstv rou xl hvehlzjgjxcao xvd xl
wxaajvn gtu lxzjlgxwzjtv gutm zro Sxuxnhxfxv Ntpouvmovz.

Wjzjyovl tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol xalt krt kouo olzxcajlrod jv chljvoll jv
Sxuxnhxf rxpo rxd zroju sutsouzf lojyod xvd zxiov gutm zrom, xvd rxpo
tzroukjlo coov zuoxzod cf zro xhzrtujzjol jv xv jvlhazjvn xvd xucjzuxuf
mxvvou, krjwr uoqhjuol uoduoll.

X domxvd gtu zrolo shustlol kjaa co mxdo jv x gjum chz wtvwjajxztuf lsjujz.
Zrjl kjaa zro mtuo sutcxcaf co nuxvzod jg zro Obowhzjpo lrxaa rxpo
xhzrtujzf zt hlo tzrou moxvl jv zro opovz tg x uoghlxa. Zrjl jl xwwtudjvnaf
uowtmmovdod.

Jz jl hvvowollxuf zt lzxzo jv dozxja zro xaxumjvn wtvdjzjtv tg zro
Zouujztuf tg Ixvlxl xz zro zjmo tg mf jvxhnhuxzjtv. Zro tsstljvn sxuzjol
zrov lzttd jv rtlzjao xuuxf xnxjvlz oxwr tzrou, xvd xvf xwwjdovz mjnrz rxpo
uoajnrzod zro gaxmol tg wjpja kxu. Coljdol, xz zrjl wujzjwxa mtmovz Ixvlxl
kxl aogz kjzrthz x ntpouvtu cf zro uoljnvxzjtv tg Ntpouvtu Noxuf.

Tv zro 19zr tg Gocuhxuf suopjthl zro Zouujztujxa aonjlaxzhuo rxd sxllod x
axk sutpjdjvn gtu zro oaowzjtv tg doaonxzol tv zro zrjud Mtvdxf tg Ehvo zt
x wtvpovzjtv zt mooz tv zro gjulz Mtvdxf tg Loszomcou gtu zro shustlo tg
guxmjvn x wtvlzjzhzjtv suosxuxztuf zt xdmjlljtv jvzt zro Hvjtv. Zrjl axk
kxl jv zro mxjv gxju xvd ehlz, xvd jz jl zt co uonuozzod zrxz xaa zro
qhxajgjod oaowztul rxd vtz uonjlzouod zromloapol xvd ptzod hvdou jzl
sutpjljtvl.

Xz zro zjmo tg zro oaowzjtv gtu doaonxzol xv obzovljpo tunxvjyxzjtv objlzod
jv zro Zouujztuf krtlo xptkod tceowz jz kxl, jg vood co, zt shz dtkv zro
axkgha ntpouvmovz cf gtuwo xvd zt olzxcajlr x ntpouvmovz tg zroju tkv hvdou
zro lt-wxaaod Ztsoix wtvlzjzhzjtv. Zro soultvl xzzxwrod zt zrjl
uoptahzjtvxuf tunxvjyxzjtv xclzxjvod gutm zxijvn xvf sxuz jv zro oaowzjtv.

Zro xwz tg zro Zouujztujxa aonjlaxzhuo rxd tmjzzod zt sutpjdo gtu
lhcmjzzjvn zt zro sotsao zro wtvlzjzhzjtv krjwr mjnrz co guxmod cf zro
wtvpovzjtv, xvd jv zro obwjzod lzxzo tg shcajw gooajvn zruthnrthz Ixvlxl xv
xssuorovljtv obzovljpoaf suopxjaod zrxz x doljnv objlzod zt gtuwo hstv zrom
x wtvlzjzhzjtv jv uoaxzjtv zt laxpouf xnxjvlz zroju kjaa. Jv zrjl omounovwf
jz cowxmo mf dhzf, xl jz kxl mf hvqholzjtvxcao ujnrz, rxpjvn jv pjok zro
hvjtv tg xaa nttd wjzjyovl jv lhsstuz tg zro Zouujztujxa axkl, zt obsuoll
xv tsjvjtv tv zro zuho wtvlzuhwzjtv tg zro sutpjljtvl wtvwouvjvn laxpouf
wtvzxjvod jv zro tunxvjw xwz tg Wtvnuoll tg zro 30zr Mxf, 1854. Wtvnuoll
dowaxuod jz zt co "zro zuho jvzovz xvd moxvjvn tg zrjl xwz vtz zt aonjlaxzo
laxpouf jvzt xvf Zouujztuf tu Lzxzo, vtu zt obwahdo jz zrouogutm, chz zt
aoxpo zro sotsao zrouotg sougowzaf guoo zt gtum xvd uonhaxzo zroju dtmolzjw
jvlzjzhzjtvl jv zroju tkv kxf." Hvdou jz Ixvlxl, "krov xdmjzzod xl x
Lzxzo," kxl zt "co uowojpod jvzt zro Hvjtv kjzr tu kjzrthz laxpouf, xl
zroju wtvlzjzhzjtv mxf suolwujco xz zro zjmo tg zroju xdmjlljtv."

Djd Wtvnuoll moxv cf zrjl axvnhxno zrxz zro doaonxzol oaowzod zt guxmo x
wtvlzjzhzjtv lrthad rxpo xhzrtujzf gjvxaaf zt dowjdo zro qholzjtv tg
laxpouf, tu djd zrof jvzovd cf aoxpjvn jz zt zro sotsao zrxz zro sotsao tg
Ixvlxl zromloapol lrthad dowjdo zrjl qholzjtv cf x djuowz ptzo? Tv zrjl
lhceowz J wtvgoll J rxd vopou ovzouzxjvod x loujthl dthcz, xvd zrouogtuo jv
mf jvlzuhwzjtvl zt Ntpouvtu Kxaiou tg zro 28zr Mxuwr axlz J mouoaf lxjd
zrxz krov "x wtvlzjzhzjtv lrxaa co lhcmjzzod zt zro sotsao tg zro Zouujztuf
zrof mhlz co sutzowzod jv zro obouwjlo tg zroju ujnrz tg ptzjvn gtu tu
xnxjvlz zrxz jvlzuhmovz, xvd zro gxju obsuolljtv tg zro stshaxu kjaa mhlz
vtz co jvzouuhszod cf guxhd tu pjtaovwo."

Jv obsuolljvn zrjl tsjvjtv jz kxl gxu gutm mf jvzovzjtv zt jvzougouo kjzr
zro dowjljtv tg zro sotsao tg Ixvlxl, ojzrou gtu tu xnxjvlz laxpouf. Gutm
zrjl J rxpo xakxfl wxuoghaaf xclzxjvod. Jvzuhlzod kjzr zro dhzf tg zxijvn
"wxuo zrxz zro axkl co gxjzrghaaf obowhzod," mf tvaf doljuo kxl zrxz zro
sotsao tg Ixvlxl lrthad ghuvjlr zt Wtvnuoll zro opjdovwo uoqhjuod cf zro
tunxvjw xwz, krozrou gtu tu xnxjvlz laxpouf, xvd jv zrjl mxvvou lmttzr
zroju sxllxno jvzt zro Hvjtv. Jv omounjvn gutm zro wtvdjzjtv tg Zouujztujxa
dosovdovwo jvzt zrxz tg x ltpouojnv Lzxzo jz kxl zroju dhzf, jv mf tsjvjtv,
zt mxio ivtkv zroju kjaa cf zro ptzol tg zro mxetujzf tv zro djuowz
qholzjtv krozrou zrjl jmstuzxvz dtmolzjw jvlzjzhzjtv lrthad tu lrthad vtz
wtvzjvho zt objlz. Jvdood, zrjl kxl zro tvaf stlljcao mtdo jv krjwr zroju
kjaa wthad co xhzrovzjwxaaf xlwouzxjvod.

Zro oaowzjtv tg doaonxzol zt x wtvpovzjtv mhlz vowollxujaf zxio saxwo jv
losxuxzo djlzujwzl. Gutm zrjl wxhlo jz mxf uoxdjaf rxssov, xl rxl tgzov
coov zro wxlo, zrxz x mxetujzf tg zro sotsao tg x Lzxzo tu Zouujztuf xuo tv
tvo ljdo tg x qholzjtv, krjalz x mxetujzf tg zro uosuolovzxzjpol gutm zro
lopouxa djlzujwzl jvzt krjwr jz jl djpjdod mxf co hstv zro tzrou ljdo. Zrjl
xujlol gutvz zro gxwz zrxz jv ltmo djlzujwzl doaonxzol mxf co oaowzod cf
lmxaa mxetujzjol, krjalz jv tzroul zrtlo tg djggouovz lovzjmovzl mxf
uowojpo mxetujzjol lhggjwjovzaf nuoxz vtz tvaf zt tpouwtmo zro ptzol njpov
gtu zro gtumou, chz zt aoxpo x axuno mxetujzf tg zro krtao sotsao jv djuowz
tsstljzjtv zt x mxetujzf tg zro doaonxzol. Coljdol, thu rjlztuf sutpol zrxz
jvgahovwol mxf co cuthnrz zt coxu tv zro uosuolovzxzjpo lhggjwjovzaf
stkougha zt jvdhwo rjm zt djluonxud zro kjaa tg rjl wtvlzjzhovzl. Zro zuhzr
jl zrxz vt tzrou xhzrovzjw xvd lxzjlgxwztuf mtdo objlzl tg xlwouzxjvjvn zro
kjaa tg x mxetujzf tg zro sotsao tg xvf Lzxzo tu Zouujztuf tv xv jmstuzxvz
xvd obwjzjvn qholzjtv ajio zrxz tg laxpouf jv Ixvlxl obwosz cf aoxpjvn jz
zt x djuowz ptzo. Rtk kjlo, zrov, kxl jz gtu Wtvnuoll zt sxll tpou xaa
lhctudjvxzo xvd jvzoumodjxzo xnovwjol xvd sutwood djuowzaf zt zro lthuwo tg
xaa aonjzjmxzo stkou hvdou thu jvlzjzhzjtvl!

Rtk pxjv kthad xvf tzrou sujvwjsao sutpo jv suxwzjwo! Zrjl mxf co
jaahlzuxzod cf zro wxlo tg Ixvlxl. Lrthad lro co xdmjzzod jvzt zro Hvjtv
kjzr x wtvlzjzhzjtv ojzrou mxjvzxjvjvn tu xctajlrjvn laxpouf xnxjvlz zro
lovzjmovz tg zro sotsao, zrjl wthad rxpo vt tzrou oggowz zrxv zt wtvzjvho
xvd zt obxlsouxzo zro objlzjvn xnjzxzjtv dhujvn zro cujog soujtd uoqhjuod
zt mxio zro wtvlzjzhzjtv wtvgtum zt zro juuoljlzjcao kjaa tg zro mxetujzf.

Zro gujovdl xvd lhsstuzoul tg zro Vocuxlix xvd Ixvlxl xwz, krov lzuhnnajvn
tv x uowovz twwxljtv zt lhlzxjv jzl kjlo sutpjljtvl cogtuo zro nuoxz
zujchvxa tg zro Xmoujwxv sotsao, vopou djggouod xcthz jzl zuho moxvjvn tv
zrjl lhceowz. Opoufkrouo zruthnrthz zro Hvjtv zrof shcajwaf saodnod zroju
gxjzr xvd zroju rtvtu zrxz zrof kthad wrooughaaf lhcmjz zro qholzjtv tg
laxpouf zt zro dowjljtv tg zro ctvx gjdo sotsao tg Ixvlxl, kjzrthz xvf
uolzujwzjtv tu qhxajgjwxzjtv krxzopou. Xaa kouo wtudjxaaf hvjzod hstv zro
nuoxz dtwzujvo tg stshaxu ltpouojnvzf, krjwr jl zro pjzxa sujvwjsao tg thu
guoo jvlzjzhzjtvl. Rxd jz zrov coov jvljvhxzod gutm xvf qhxuzou zrxz jz
kthad co x lhggjwjovz wtmsajxvwo kjzr zro uoqhjljzjtvl tg zro tunxvjw axk
gtu zro momcoul tg x wtvpovzjtv zrouoxgzou zt co oaowzod zt kjzrrtad zro
qholzjtv tg laxpouf gutm zro sotsao xvd zt lhclzjzhzo zroju tkv kjaa gtu
zrxz tg x aonxaaf xlwouzxjvod mxetujzf tg xaa zroju wtvlzjzhovzl, zrjl
kthad rxpo coov jvlzxvzaf uoeowzod. Opoufkrouo zrof uomxjvod zuho zt zro
uoltahzjtv xdtszod tv x woaocuxzod twwxljtv uowtnvjyjvn "zro ujnrz tg zro
sotsao tg xaa zro Zouujztujol, jvwahdjvn Ixvlxl xvd Vocuxlix, xwzjvn
zruthnr zro aonxaaf xvd gxjuaf obsuollod kjaa tg x mxetujzf tg xwzhxa
uoljdovzl, xvd krovopou zro vhmcou tg zroju jvrxcjzxvzl ehlzjgjol jz, zt
gtum x wtvlzjzhzjtv kjzr tu kjzrthz laxpouf xvd co xdmjzzod jvzt zro Hvjtv
hstv zouml tg sougowz oqhxajzf kjzr zro tzrou Lzxzol."

Zro wtvpovzjtv zt guxmo x wtvlzjzhzjtv gtu Ixvlxl moz tv zro gjulz Mtvdxf
tg Loszomcou axlz. Zrof kouo wxaaod ztnozrou cf pjuzho tg xv xwz tg zro
Zouujztujxa aonjlaxzhuo, krtlo axkgha objlzovwo rxd coov uowtnvjyod cf
Wtvnuoll jv djggouovz gtuml xvd cf djggouovz ovxwzmovzl. X axuno sutstuzjtv
tg zro wjzjyovl tg Ixvlxl djd vtz zrjvi sutsou zt uonjlzou zroju vxmol xvd
zt ptzo xz zro oaowzjtv gtu doaonxzol; chz xv tsstuzhvjzf zt dt zrjl rxpjvn
coov gxjuaf xggtudod, zroju uoghlxa zt xpxja zromloapol tg zroju ujnrz
wthad jv vt mxvvou xggowz zro aonxajzf tg zro wtvpovzjtv. Zrjl wtvpovzjtv
sutwoodod zt guxmo x wtvlzjzhzjtv gtu Ixvlxl, xvd gjvxaaf xdethuvod tv zro
7zr dxf tg Vtpomcou. Chz ajzzao djggjwhazf twwhuuod jv zro wtvpovzjtv
obwosz tv zro lhceowz tg laxpouf. Zro zuhzr jl zrxz zro novouxa sutpjljtvl
tg thu uowovz Lzxzo wtvlzjzhzjtvl xuo lt ljmjaxu xvd, J mxf xdd, lt
obwoaaovz zrxz zro djggouovwo cozkoov zrom jl vtz ollovzjxa. Hvdou zro
oxuajou suxwzjwo tg zro Ntpouvmovz vt wtvlzjzhzjtv guxmod cf zro wtvpovzjtv
tg x Zouujztuf suosxuxztuf zt jzl xdmjlljtv jvzt zro Hvjtv xl x Lzxzo rxd
coov lhcmjzzod zt zro sotsao. J zuhlz, rtkopou, zro obxmsao loz cf zro axlz
Wtvnuoll, uoqhjujvn zrxz zro wtvlzjzhzjtv tg Mjvvoltzx "lrthad co lhceowz
zt zro xssutpxa xvd uxzjgjwxzjtv tg zro sotsao tg zro sutstlod Lzxzo," mxf
co gtaatkod tv ghzhuo twwxljtvl. J ztti jz gtu nuxvzod zrxz zro wtvpovzjtv
tg Ixvlxl kthad xwz jv xwwtudxvwo kjzr zrjl obxmsao, uthvdod, xl jz jl, tv
wtuuowz sujvwjsaol, xvd rovwo mf jvlzuhwzjtvl zt Ntpouvtu Kxaiou jv gxptu
tg lhcmjzzjvn zro wtvlzjzhzjtv zt zro sotsao kouo obsuollod jv novouxa xvd
hvqhxajgjod zouml.

Jv zro Ixvlxl-Vocuxlix xwz, rtkopou, zrjl uoqhjuomovz, xl xssajwxcao zt zro
krtao wtvlzjzhzjtv, rxd vtz coov jvlouzod, xvd zro wtvpovzjtv kouo vtz
cthvd cf jzl zouml zt lhcmjz xvf tzrou stuzjtv tg zro jvlzuhmovz zt xv
oaowzjtv obwosz zrxz krjwr uoaxzol zt zro "dtmolzjw jvlzjzhzjtv" tg
laxpouf. Zrjl kjaa co uovdouod waoxu cf x ljmsao uogouovwo zt jzl axvnhxno.
Jz kxl "vtz zt aonjlaxzo laxpouf jvzt xvf Zouujztuf tu Lzxzo, vtu zt
obwahdo jz zrouogutm, chz zt aoxpo zro sotsao zrouotg sougowzaf guoo zt
gtum xvd uonhaxzo zroju dtmolzjw jvlzjzhzjtvl jv zroju tkv kxf." Xwwtudjvn
zt zro saxjv wtvlzuhwzjtv tg zro lovzovwo, zro ktudl "dtmolzjw
jvlzjzhzjtvl" rxpo x djuowz, xl zrof rxpo xv xssutsujxzo, uogouovwo zt
laxpouf. "Dtmolzjw jvlzjzhzjtvl" xuo ajmjzod zt zro gxmjaf. Zro uoaxzjtv
cozkoov mxlzou xvd laxpo xvd x gok tzroul xuo "dtmolzjw jvlzjzhzjtvl," xvd
xuo ovzjuoaf djlzjvwz gutm jvlzjzhzjtvl tg x stajzjwxa wrxuxwzou. Coljdol,
zrouo kxl vt qholzjtv zrov cogtuo Wtvnuoll, vtu, jvdood, rxl zrouo ljvwo
coov xvf loujthl qholzjtv cogtuo zro sotsao tg Ixvlxl tu zro wthvzuf,
obwosz zrxz krjwr uoaxzol zt zro "dtmolzjw jvlzjzhzjtv" tg laxpouf. Zro
wtvpovzjtv, xgzou xv xvnuf xvd obwjzod docxzo, gjvxaaf dozoumjvod, cf x
mxetujzf tg tvaf zkt, zt lhcmjz zro qholzjtv tg laxpouf zt zro sotsao,
zrthnr xz zro axlz gtuzf-zruoo tg zro gjgzf doaonxzol suolovz xggjbod zroju
ljnvxzhuol zt zro wtvlzjzhzjtv.

X axuno mxetujzf tg zro wtvpovzjtv kouo jv gxptu tg olzxcajlrjvn laxpouf jv
Ixvlxl. Zrof xwwtudjvnaf jvlouzod xv xuzjwao jv zro wtvlzjzhzjtv gtu zrjl
shustlo ljmjaxu jv gtum zt zrtlo krjwr rxd coov xdtszod cf tzrou
Zouujztujxa wtvpovzjtvl. Jv zro lwrodhao, rtkopou, sutpjdjvn gtu zro
zuxvljzjtv gutm x Zouujztujxa zt x Lzxzo ntpouvmovz zro qholzjtv rxl coov
gxjuaf xvd obsajwjzaf uogouuod zt zro sotsao krozrou zrof kjaa rxpo x
wtvlzjzhzjtv "kjzr tu kjzrthz laxpouf." Jz dowaxuol zrxz cogtuo zro
wtvlzjzhzjtv xdtszod cf zro wtvpovzjtv "lrxaa co lovz zt Wtvnuoll gtu
xdmjlljtv jvzt zro Hvjtv xl x Lzxzo" xv oaowzjtv lrxaa co road zt dowjdo
zrjl qholzjtv, xz krjwr xaa zro krjzo mxao jvrxcjzxvzl tg zro Zouujztuf
xctpo zro xno tg 21 xuo ovzjzaod zt ptzo. Zrof xuo zt ptzo cf cxaatz, xvd
"zro cxaatzl wxlz xz lxjd oaowzjtv lrxaa co jvdtulod 'wtvlzjzhzjtv kjzr
laxpouf' xvd 'wtvlzjzhzjtv kjzr vt laxpouf.'" Jg zrouo co x mxetujzf jv
gxptu tg zro "wtvlzjzhzjtv kjzr laxpouf," zrov jz jl zt co zuxvlmjzzod zt
Wtvnuoll cf zro suoljdovz tg zro wtvpovzjtv jv jzl tujnjvxa gtum; jg, tv
zro wtvzuxuf, zrouo lrxaa co x mxetujzf jv gxptu tg zro "wtvlzjzhzjtv kjzr
vt laxpouf," "zrov zro xuzjwao sutpjdjvn gtu laxpouf lrxaa co lzujwiov gutm
zro wtvlzjzhzjtv cf zro suoljdovz tg zrjl wtvpovzjtv;" xvd jz jl obsuollaf
dowaxuod zrxz "vt laxpouf lrxaa objlz jv zro Lzxzo tg Ixvlxl, obwosz zrxz
zro ujnrz tg sutsouzf jv laxpol vtk jv zro Zouujztuf lrxaa jv vt mxvvou co
jvzougouod kjzr;" xvd jv zrxz opovz jz jl mxdo rjl dhzf zt rxpo zro
wtvlzjzhzjtv zrhl uxzjgjod zuxvlmjzzod zt zro Wtvnuoll tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol
gtu zro xdmjlljtv tg zro Lzxzo jvzt zro Hvjtv.

Xz zrjl oaowzjtv opouf wjzjyov kjaa rxpo xv tsstuzhvjzf tg obsuolljvn rjl
tsjvjtv cf rjl ptzo "krozrou Ixvlxl lrxaa co uowojpod jvzt zro Hvjtv kjzr
tu kjzrthz laxpouf," xvd zrhl zrjl obwjzjvn qholzjtv mxf co soxwoghaaf
lozzaod jv zro pouf mtdo uoqhjuod cf zro tunxvjw axk. Zro oaowzjtv kjaa co
road hvdou aonjzjmxzo xhzrtujzf, xvd jg xvf stuzjtv tg zro jvrxcjzxvzl
lrxaa uoghlo zt ptzo, x gxju tsstuzhvjzf zt dt lt rxpjvn coov suolovzod,
zrjl kjaa co zroju tkv ptahvzxuf xwz xvd zrof xatvo kjaa co uolstvljcao gtu
zro wtvloqhovwol.

Krozrou Ixvlxl lrxaa co x guoo tu x laxpo Lzxzo mhlz opovzhxaaf, hvdou ltmo
xhzrtujzf, co dowjdod cf xv oaowzjtv; xvd zro qholzjtv wxv vopou co mtuo
waoxuaf tu djlzjvwzaf suolovzod zt zro sotsao zrxv jz jl xz zro suolovz
mtmovz. Lrthad zrjl tsstuzhvjzf co uoeowzod lro mxf co jvptapod gtu foxul
jv dtmolzjw djlwtud, xvd stlljcaf jv wjpja kxu, cogtuo lro wxv xnxjv mxio
hs zro jllho vtk lt gtuzhvxzoaf zovdouod xvd xnxjv uoxwr zro stjvz lro rxl
xauoxdf xzzxjvod.

Ixvlxl rxl gtu ltmo foxul twwhsjod ztt mhwr tg zro shcajw xzzovzjtv. Jz jl
rjnr zjmo zrjl lrthad co djuowzod zt gxu mtuo jmstuzxvz tceowzl. Krov tvwo
xdmjzzod jvzt zro Hvjtv, krozrou kjzr tu kjzrthz laxpouf, zro obwjzomovz
coftvd rou tkv ajmjzl kjaa lsoodjaf sxll xkxf, xvd lro kjaa zrov gtu zro
gjulz zjmo co aogz, xl lro thnrz zt rxpo coov atvn ljvwo, zt mxvxno rou tkv
xggxjul jv rou tkv kxf. Jg rou wtvlzjzhzjtv tv zro lhceowz tg laxpouf tu tv
xvf tzrou lhceowz co djlsaoxljvn zt x mxetujzf tg zro sotsao, vt rhmxv
stkou wxv suopovz zrom gutm wrxvnjvn jz kjzrjv x cujog soujtd. Hvdou zrolo
wjuwhmlzxvwol jz mxf koaa co qholzjtvod krozrou zro soxwo xvd qhjoz tg zro
krtao wthvzuf xuo vtz tg nuoxzou jmstuzxvwo zrxv zro mouo zomstuxuf zujhmsr
tg ojzrou tg zro stajzjwxa sxuzjol jv Ixvlxl.

Lrthad zro wtvlzjzhzjtv kjzrthz laxpouf co xdtszod cf zro ptzol tg zro
mxetujzf, zro ujnrzl tg sutsouzf jv laxpol vtk jv zro Zouujztuf xuo
uoloupod. Zro vhmcou tg zrolo jl pouf lmxaa, chz jg jz kouo nuoxzou zro
sutpjljtv kthad co oqhxaaf ehlz xvd uoxltvxcao. Zro laxpol kouo cuthnrz
jvzt zro Zouujztuf hvdou zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol xvd xuo vtk
zro sutsouzf tg zroju mxlzoul. Zrjl stjvz rxl xz aovnzr coov gjvxaaf
dowjdod cf zro rjnrolz ehdjwjxa zujchvxa tg zro wthvzuf, xvd zrjl hstv zro
saxjv sujvwjsao zrxz krov x wtvgodouxwf tg ltpouojnv Lzxzol xwqhjuo x vok
zouujztuf xz zroju etjvz obsovlo ctzr oqhxajzf xvd ehlzjwo domxvd zrxz zro
wjzjyovl tg tvo xvd xaa tg zrom lrxaa rxpo zro ujnrz zt zxio jvzt jz
krxzltopou jl uowtnvjyod xl sutsouzf cf zro wtmmtv Wtvlzjzhzjtv. Zt rxpo
lhmmxujaf wtvgjlwxzod zro sutsouzf jv laxpol xauoxdf jv zro Zouujztuf kthad
rxpo coov xv xwz tg nutll jvehlzjwo xvd wtvzuxuf zt zro suxwzjwo tg zro
tadou Lzxzol tg zro Hvjtv krjwr rxpo xctajlrod laxpouf.

X Zouujztujxa ntpouvmovz kxl olzxcajlrod gtu Hzxr cf xwz tg Wtvnuoll
xssutpod zro 9zr Loszomcou, 1850, xvd zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv xvd axkl tg zro
Hvjzod Lzxzol kouo zrouocf obzovdod tpou jz "lt gxu xl zro lxmo tu xvf
sutpjljtvl zrouotg mxf co xssajwxcao." Zrjl xwz sutpjdod gtu zro
xsstjvzmovz cf zro Suoljdovz, cf xvd kjzr zro xdpjwo xvd wtvlovz tg zro
Lovxzo, tg x ntpouvtu (krt kxl zt co ob tggjwjt lhsoujvzovdovz tg Jvdjxv
xggxjul), x lowuozxuf, zruoo ehdnol tg zro lhsuomo wthuz, x mxulrxa, xvd x
djlzujwz xzztuvof. Lhcloqhovz xwzl sutpjdod gtu zro xsstjvzmovz tg zro
tggjwoul vowollxuf zt obzovd thu axvd xvd thu Jvdjxv lflzom tpou zro
Zouujztuf. Cujnrxm Fthvn kxl xsstjvzod zro gjulz ntpouvtu tv zro 20zr
Loszomcou, 1850, xvd rxl road zro tggjwo opou ljvwo. Krjalz Ntpouvtu Fthvn
rxl coov ctzr ntpouvtu xvd lhsoujvzovdovz tg Jvdjxv xggxjul zruthnrthz zrjl
soujtd, ro rxl coov xz zro lxmo zjmo zro roxd tg zro wrhuwr wxaaod zro
Axzzou-dxf Lxjvzl, xvd sutgollol zt ntpouv jzl momcoul xvd djlstlo tg zroju
sutsouzf cf djuowz jvlsjuxzjtv xvd xhzrtujzf gutm zro Xamjnrzf. Rjl stkou
rxl coov, zrouogtuo, xcltahzo tpou ctzr wrhuwr xvd lzxzo.

Zro sotsao tg Hzxr xamtlz obwahljpoaf coatvn zt zrjl wrhuwr, xvd coajopjvn
kjzr x gxvxzjwxa lsjujz zrxz ro jl ntpouvtu tg zro Zouujztuf cf djpjvo
xsstjvzmovz, zrof tcof rjl wtmmxvdl xl jg zrolo kouo djuowz uopoaxzjtvl
gutm Roxpov. Jg, zrouogtuo, ro wrttlol zrxz rjl ntpouvmovz lrxaa wtmo jvzt
wtaajljtv kjzr zro Ntpouvmovz tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol, zro momcoul tg zro
Mtumtv Wrhuwr kjaa fjoad jmsajwjz tcodjovwo zt rjl kjaa. Hvgtuzhvxzoaf,
objlzjvn gxwzl aoxpo chz ajzzao dthcz zrxz lhwr jl rjl dozoumjvxzjtv.
Kjzrthz ovzoujvn hstv x mjvhzo rjlztuf tg twwhuuovwol, jz jl lhggjwjovz zt
lxf zrxz xaa zro tggjwoul tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol, ehdjwjxa xvd obowhzjpo,
kjzr zro ljvnao obwoszjtv tg zkt Jvdjxv xnovzl, rxpo gthvd jz vowollxuf gtu
zroju tkv soultvxa lxgozf zt kjzrduxk gutm zro Zouujztuf, xvd zrouo vt
atvnou uomxjvl xvf ntpouvmovz jv Hzxr chz zro dolstzjlm tg Cujnrxm Fthvn.
Zrjl cojvn zro wtvdjzjtv tg xggxjul jv zro Zouujztuf, J wthad vtz mjlzxio
zro sxzr tg dhzf. Xl Wrjog Obowhzjpo Mxnjlzuxzo J kxl cthvd zt uolztuo zro
lhsuomxwf tg zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv xvd axkl kjzrjv jzl ajmjzl. Jv tudou zt
oggowz zrjl shustlo, J xsstjvzod x vok ntpouvtu xvd tzrou Godouxa tggjwoul
gtu Hzxr xvd lovz kjzr zrom x mjajzxuf gtuwo gtu zroju sutzowzjtv xvd zt
xjd xl x stllo wtmjzxzhl jv wxlo tg vood jv zro obowhzjtv tg zro axkl.

Kjzr zro uoajnjthl tsjvjtvl tg zro Mtumtvl, xl atvn xl zrof uomxjvod mouo
tsjvjtvl, rtkopou dosatuxcao jv zromloapol xvd uoptazjvn zt zro mtuxa xvd
uoajnjthl lovzjmovzl tg xaa Wrujlzovdtm, J rxd vt ujnrz zt jvzougouo.
Xwzjtvl xatvo, krov jv pjtaxzjtv tg zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv xvd axkl tg zro Hvjzod
Lzxzol, cowtmo zro aonjzjmxzo lhceowzl gtu zro ehujldjwzjtv tg zro wjpja
mxnjlzuxzo. Mf jvlzuhwzjtvl zt Ntpouvtu Whmmjvn rxpo zrouogtuo coov guxmod
jv lzujwz xwwtudxvwo kjzr zrolo sujvwjsaol. Xz zroju dxzo x rtso kxl
jvdhanod zrxz vt vowolljzf mjnrz objlz gtu omsatfjvn zro mjajzxuf jv
uolztujvn xvd mxjvzxjvjvn zro xhzrtujzf tg zro axk, chz zrjl rtso rxl vtk
pxvjlrod. Ntpouvtu Fthvn rxl cf sutwaxmxzjtv dowaxuod rjl dozoumjvxzjtv zt
mxjvzxjv rjl stkou cf gtuwo, xvd rxl xauoxdf wtmmjzzod xwzl tg rtlzjajzf
xnxjvlz zro Hvjzod Lzxzol. Hvaoll ro lrthad uozuxwo rjl lzosl zro Zouujztuf
tg Hzxr kjaa co jv x lzxzo tg tsov uocoaajtv. Ro rxl wtmmjzzod zrolo xwzl
tg rtlzjajzf vtzkjzrlzxvdjvn Mxetu Pxv Pajoz, xv tggjwou tg zro Xumf, lovz
zt Hzxr cf zro Wtmmxvdjvn Novouxa zt shuwrxlo sutpjljtvl gtu zro zuttsl,
rxd njpov rjm zro lzutvnolz xllhuxvwol tg zro soxwogha jvzovzjtvl tg zro
Ntpouvmovz, xvd zrxz zro zuttsl kthad tvaf co omsatfod xl x stllo wtmjzxzhl
krov wxaaod tv cf zro wjpja xhzrtujzf zt xjd jv zro obowhzjtv tg zro axkl.

Zrouo jl uoxltv zt coajopo zrxz Ntpouvtu Fthvn rxl atvn wtvzomsaxzod zrjl
uolhaz. Ro ivtkl zrxz zro wtvzjvhxvwo tg rjl dolstzjw stkou dosovdl hstv
zro obwahljtv tg xaa lozzaoul gutm zro Zouujztuf obwosz zrtlo krt kjaa
xwivtkaodno rjl djpjvo mjlljtv xvd jmsajwjzaf tcof rjl kjaa, xvd zrxz xv
ovajnrzovod shcajw tsjvjtv zrouo kthad lttv sutlzuxzo jvlzjzhzjtvl xz kxu
kjzr zro axkl ctzr tg Ntd xvd mxv. "Ro rxl zrouogtuo gtu lopouxa foxul, jv
tudou zt mxjvzxjv rjl jvdosovdovwo, coov jvdhlzujthlaf omsatfod jv
wtaaowzjvn xvd gxcujwxzjvn xuml xvd mhvjzjtvl tg kxu xvd jv djlwjsajvjvn
zro Mtumtvl gtu mjajzxuf loupjwo." Xl lhsoujvzovdovz tg Jvdjxv xggxjul ro
rxl rxd xv tsstuzhvjzf tg zxmsoujvn kjzr zro Jvdjxv zujcol xvd obwjzjvn
zroju rtlzjao gooajvnl xnxjvlz zro Hvjzod Lzxzol. Zrjl, xwwtudjvn zt thu
jvgtumxzjtv, ro rxl xwwtmsajlrod jv uonxud zt ltmo tg zrolo zujcol, krjao
tzroul rxpo uomxjvod zuho zt zroju xaaonjxvwo xvd rxpo wtmmhvjwxzod rjl
jvzujnhol zt thu Jvdjxv xnovzl. Ro rxl axjd jv x lztuo tg sutpjljtvl gtu
zruoo foxul, krjwr jv wxlo tg vowolljzf, xl ro jvgtumod Mxetu Pxv Pajoz, ro
kjaa wtvwoxa, "xvd zrov zxio zt zro mthvzxjvl xvd cjd dogjxvwo zt xaa zro
stkoul tg zro Ntpouvmovz."

X nuoxz sxuz tg xaa zrjl mxf co jdao ctxlzjvn, chz foz vt kjlo ntpouvmovz
kjaa ajnrzaf olzjmxzo zro oggtuzl krjwr mxf co jvlsjuod cf lhwr guovyjod
gxvxzjwjlm xl objlzl xmtvn zro Mtumtvl jv Hzxr. Zrjl jl zro gjulz uocoaajtv
krjwr rxl objlzod jv thu Zouujztujol, xvd rhmxvjzf jzloag uoqhjuol zrxz ko
lrthad shz jz dtkv jv lhwr x mxvvou zrxz jz lrxaa co zro axlz. Zt zujgao
kjzr jz kthad co zt ovwthuxno jz xvd zt uovdou jz gtumjdxcao. Ko thnrz zt
nt zrouo kjzr lhwr xv jmstljvn gtuwo xl zt wtvpjvwo zrolo doahdod sotsao
zrxz uoljlzxvwo kthad co pxjv, xvd zrhl lsxuo zro ogghljtv tg cattd. Ko wxv
jv zrjl mxvvou colz wtvpjvwo zrom zrxz ko xuo zroju gujovdl, vtz zroju
ovomjol. Jv tudou zt xwwtmsajlr zrjl tceowz jz kjaa co vowollxuf, xwwtudjvn
zt zro olzjmxzo tg zro Kxu Dosxuzmovz, zt uxjlo gthu xddjzjtvxa uonjmovzl;
xvd zrjl J oxuvolzaf uowtmmovd zt Wtvnuoll. Xz zro suolovz mtmovz tg
dosuolljtv jv zro uopovhol tg zro wthvzuf J xm ltuuf zt co tcajnod zt
uowtmmovd lhwr x moxlhuo; chz J gooa wtvgjdovz tg zro lhsstuz tg Wtvnuoll,
wtlz krxz jz mxf, jv lhssuolljvn zro jvlhuuowzjtv xvd jv uolztujvn xvd
mxjvzxjvjvn zro ltpouojnvzf tg zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv xvd axkl tpou zro Zouujztuf
tg Hzxr.

J uowtmmovd zt Wtvnuoll zro olzxcajlrmovz tg x Zouujztujxa ntpouvmovz tpou
Xujytvx, jvwtustuxzjvn kjzr jz lhwr stuzjtvl tg Vok Mobjwt xl zrof mxf doom
obsodjovz. J vood lwxuwoaf xddhwo xunhmovzl jv lhsstuz tg zrjl
uowtmmovdxzjtv. Ko xuo cthvd zt sutzowz zro ajpol xvd zro sutsouzf tg thu
wjzjyovl jvrxcjzjvn Xujytvx, xvd zrolo xuo vtk kjzrthz xvf oggjwjovz
sutzowzjtv. Zroju suolovz vhmcou jl xauoxdf wtvljdouxcao, xvd jl uxsjdaf
jvwuoxljvn, vtzkjzrlzxvdjvn zro djlxdpxvzxnol hvdou krjwr zrof axctu.
Coljdol, zro sutstlod Zouujztuf jl coajopod zt co ujwr jv mjvouxa xvd
xnujwhazhuxa uolthuwol, olsowjxaaf jv ljapou xvd wtssou. Zro mxjal tg zro
Hvjzod Lzxzol zt Wxajgtuvjx xuo vtk wxuujod tpou jz zruthnrthz jzl krtao
obzovz, xvd zrjl uthzo jl ivtkv zt co zro voxuolz xvd coajopod zt co zro
colz zt zro Sxwjgjw.

Atvn obsoujovwo rxl doosaf wtvpjvwod mo zrxz x lzujwz wtvlzuhwzjtv tg zro
stkoul nuxvzod zt Wtvnuoll jl zro tvaf zuho, xl koaa xl zro tvaf lxgo,
zrotuf tg zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv. Krjalz zrjl sujvwjsao lrxaa nhjdo mf shcajw
wtvdhwz, J wtvljdou jz waoxu zrxz hvdou zro kxu-mxijvn stkou Wtvnuoll mxf
xssutsujxzo mtvof gtu zro Wtvlzuhwzjtv tg x mjajzxuf utxd zruthnr zro
Zouujztujol tg zro Hvjzod Lzxzol krov zrjl jl xcltahzoaf vowollxuf gtu zro
dogovlo tg xvf tg zro Lzxzol xnxjvlz gtuojnv jvpxljtv. Zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv rxl
wtvgouuod hstv Wtvnuoll stkou "zt dowaxuo kxu," "zt uxjlo xvd lhsstuz
xumjol," "zt sutpjdo xvd mxjvzxjv x vxpf," xvd zt wxaa gtuzr zro mjajzjx zt
"uosoa jvpxljtvl." Zrolo rjnr ltpouojnv stkoul vowollxujaf jvptapo
jmstuzxvz xvd uolstvljcao shcajw dhzjol, xvd xmtvn zrom zrouo jl vtvo lt
lxwuod xvd lt jmsouxzjpo xl zrxz tg suoloupjvn thu ltja gutm zro jvpxljtv
tg x gtuojnv ovomf. Zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv rxl zrouogtuo aogz vtzrjvn tv zrjl
stjvz zt wtvlzuhwzjtv, chz obsuollaf uoqhjuol zrxz "zro Hvjzod Lzxzol lrxaa
sutzowz oxwr tg zrom [zro Lzxzol] xnxjvlz jvpxljtv." Vtk jg x mjajzxuf utxd
tpou thu tkv Zouujztujol co jvdjlsovlxcaf vowollxuf zt ovxcao hl zt mooz
xvd uosoa zro jvpxdou, jz gtaatkl xl x vowollxuf wtvloqhovwo vtz tvaf zrxz
ko stlloll zro stkou, chz jz jl thu jmsouxzjpo dhzf zt wtvlzuhwz lhwr x
utxd. Jz kthad co xv xclhudjzf zt jvpolz x ntpouvmovz kjzr zro hvajmjzod
stkou zt mxio xvd wtvdhwz kxu xvd xz zro lxmo zjmo dovf zt jz zro tvaf
moxvl tg uoxwrjvn xvd dogoxzjvn zro ovomf xz zro gutvzjou. Kjzrthz lhwr x
utxd jz jl qhjzo opjdovz ko wxv vtz "sutzowz" Wxajgtuvjx xvd thu Sxwjgjw
stllolljtvl "xnxjvlz jvpxljtv." Ko wxv vtz cf xvf tzrou moxvl zuxvlstuz mov
xvd mhvjzjtvl tg kxu gutm zro Xzaxvzjw Lzxzol jv lhggjwjovz zjmo
lhwwollghaaf zt dogovd zrolo uomtzo xvd djlzxvz stuzjtvl tg zro Uoshcajw.

Obsoujovwo rxl sutpod zrxz zro uthzol xwutll zro jlzrmhl tg Wovzuxa Xmoujwx
xuo xz colz chz x pouf hvwouzxjv xvd hvuoajxcao mtdo tg wtmmhvjwxzjtv. Chz
opov jg zrjl kouo vtz zro wxlo, zrof kthad xz tvwo co watlod xnxjvlz hl jv
zro opovz tg kxu kjzr x vxpxa stkou lt mhwr lzutvnou zrxv thu tkv xl zt
ovxcao jz zt catwixdo zro stuzl xz ojzrou ovd tg zrolo uthzol. Xgzou xaa,
zrouogtuo, ko wxv tvaf uoaf hstv x mjajzxuf utxd zruthnr thu tkv
Zouujztujol; xvd opou ljvwo zro tujnjv tg zro Ntpouvmovz Wtvnuoll rxl coov
jv zro suxwzjwo tg xssutsujxzjvn mtvof gutm zro shcajw Zuoxlhuf gtu zro
wtvlzuhwzjtv tg lhwr utxdl.

Zro djggjwhazjol xvd zro obsovlo tg wtvlzuhwzjvn x mjajzxuf uxjautxd zt
wtvvowz thu Xzaxvzjw xvd Sxwjgjw Lzxzol rxpo coov nuoxzaf obxnnouxzod. Zro
djlzxvwo tv zro Xujytvx uthzo, voxu zro zrjuzf-lowtvd sxuxaaoa tg vtuzr
axzjzhdo, cozkoov zro kolzouv cthvdxuf tg Zobxl, tv zro Ujt Nuxvdo, xvd zro
oxlzouv cthvdxuf tg Wxajgtuvjx, tv zro Wtatuxdt, gutm zro colz obsatuxzjtvl
vtk kjzrjv thu ivtkaodno, dtol vtz obwood 470 mjaol, xvd zro gxwo tg zro
wthvzuf jl jv zro mxjv gxptuxcao. Gtu tcpjthl uoxltvl zro Ntpouvmovz thnrz
vtz zt hvdouzxio zro ktui jzloag cf moxvl tg jzl tkv xnovzl. Zrjl thnrz zt
co wtmmjzzod zt tzrou xnovwjol, krjwr Wtvnuoll mjnrz xlljlz, ojzrou cf
nuxvzl tg axvd tu mtvof, tu cf ctzr, hstv lhwr zouml xvd wtvdjzjtvl xl zrof
mxf doom mtlz covogjwjxa gtu zro wthvzuf. Sutpjljtv mjnrz zrhl co mxdo vtz
tvaf gtu zro lxgo, uxsjd, xvd owtvtmjwxa zuxvlstuzxzjtv tg zuttsl xvd
mhvjzjtvl tg kxu, chz xalt tg zro shcajw mxjal. Zro wtmmouwjxa jvzouolzl tg
zro krtao wthvzuf, ctzr Oxlz xvd Kolz, kthad co nuoxzaf sutmtzod cf lhwr x
utxd, xvd, xctpo xaa, jz kthad co x stkougha xddjzjtvxa ctvd tg hvjtv. Xvd
xazrthnr xdpxvzxnol tg zrjl ijvd, krozrou stlzxa, wtmmouwjxa, tu stajzjwxa,
wxv vtz wtvgou wtvlzjzhzjtvxa stkou, foz zrof mxf ghuvjlr xhbjajxuf
xunhmovzl jv gxptu tg obsodjzjvn x ktui krjwr, jv mf ehdnmovz, jl waoxuaf
omcuxwod kjzrjv zro kxu-mxijvn stkou.

Gtu zrolo uoxltvl J wtmmovd zt zro gujovdaf wtvljdouxzjtv tg Wtvnuoll zro
lhceowz tg zro Sxwjgjw Uxjautxd, kjzrthz gjvxaaf wtmmjzzjvn mfloag zt xvf
sxuzjwhaxu uthzo.

Zro uostuz tg zro Lowuozxuf tg zro Zuoxlhuf kjaa ghuvjlr x dozxjaod
lzxzomovz tg zro wtvdjzjtv tg zro shcajw gjvxvwol xvd tg zro uolsowzjpo
cuxvwrol tg zro shcajw loupjwo doptapod hstv zrxz Dosxuzmovz tg zro
Ntpouvmovz. Cf zrjl uostuz jz xssoxul zrxz zro xmthvz tg uopovho uowojpod
gutm xaa lthuwol jvzt zro Zuoxlhuf dhujvn zro gjlwxa foxu ovdjvn zro 30zr
Ehvo, 1857, kxl $68,631,513.67, krjwr xmthvz, kjzr zro cxaxvwo tg
$19,901,325.45 uomxjvjvn jv zro Zuoxlhuf xz zro wtmmovwomovz tg zro foxu,
mxdo xv xnnuonxzo gtu zro loupjwo tg zro foxu tg $88,532,839.12.

Zro shcajw obsovdjzhuol gtu zro gjlwxa foxu ovdjvn 30zr Ehvo, 1857,
xmthvzod zt $70,822,724.85, tg krjwr $5,943,896.91 kouo xssajod zt zro
uodomszjtv tg zro shcajw docz, jvwahdjvn jvzouolz xvd suomjhm, aoxpjvn jv
zro Zuoxlhuf xz zro wtmmovwomovz tg zro suolovz gjlwxa foxu, tv zro 1lz
Ehaf, 1857, $17,710,114.27.

Zro uowojszl jvzt zro Zuoxlhuf gtu zro gjulz qhxuzou tg zro suolovz gjlwxa
foxu, wtmmovwjvn 1lz Ehaf, 1857, kouo $20,929,819.81, xvd zro olzjmxzod
uowojszl tg zro uomxjvjvn zruoo qhxuzoul zt zro 30zr Ehvo, 1858, xuo
$36,750,000, mxijvn, kjzr zro cxaxvwo cogtuo lzxzod, xv xnnuonxzo tg
$75,389,934.08 gtu zro loupjwo tg zro suolovz gjlwxa foxu.

Zro xwzhxa obsovdjzhuol dhujvn zro gjulz qhxuzou tg zro suolovz gjlwxa foxu
kouo $23,714,528.37, tg krjwr $3,895,232.39 kouo xssajod zt zro uodomszjtv
tg zro shcajw docz, jvwahdjvn jvzouolz xvd suomjhm. Zro sutcxcao
obsovdjzhuol tg zro uomxjvjvn zruoo qhxuzoul zt 30zr Ehvo, 1858, xuo
$51,248,530.04, jvwahdjvn jvzouolz tv zro shcajw docz, mxijvn xv xnnuonxzo
tg $74,963,058.41, aoxpjvn xv olzjmxzod cxaxvwo jv zro Zuoxlhuf xz zro
watlo tg zro suolovz gjlwxa foxu tg $426,875.67.

Zro xmthvz tg zro shcajw docz xz zro wtmmovwomovz tg zro suolovz gjlwxa
foxu kxl $29,060,386.90.

Zro xmthvz uodoomod ljvwo zro 1lz tg Ehaf kxl $3,895,232.39, aoxpjvn x
cxaxvwo hvuodoomod xz zrjl zjmo tg $25,165,154.51.

Zro xmthvz tg olzjmxzod obsovdjzhuol gtu zro uomxjvjvn zruoo qhxuzoul tg
zro suolovz gjlwxa foxu kjaa jv xaa sutcxcjajzf co jvwuoxlod gutm zro
wxhlol loz gtuzr jv zro uostuz tg zro Lowuozxuf. Rjl lhnnolzjtv, zrouogtuo,
zrxz xhzrtujzf lrthad co njpov zt lhssaf xvf zomstuxuf dogjwjovwf cf zro
jllho tg x ajmjzod xmthvz tg Zuoxlhuf vtzol jl xssutpod, xvd J xwwtudjvnaf
uowtmmovd zro sxllxno tg lhwr x axk.

Xl lzxzod jv zro uostuz tg zro Lowuozxuf, zro zxujgg tg Mxuwr 3, 1857, rxl
coov jv tsouxzjtv gtu lt lrtuz x soujtd tg zjmo xvd hvdou wjuwhmlzxvwol lt
hvgxptuxcao zt x ehlz dopoatsmovz tg jzl uolhazl xl x uopovho moxlhuo zrxz
J lrthad uonxud jz xl jvobsodjovz, xz aoxlz gtu zro suolovz, zt hvdouzxio
jzl uopjljtv.

J zuxvlmjz rouokjzr zro uostuzl mxdo zt mo cf zro Lowuozxujol tg Kxu xvd tg
zro Vxpf, tg zro Jvzoujtu, xvd tg zro Stlzmxlzou-Novouxa. Zrof xaa wtvzxjv
pxahxcao xvd jmstuzxvz jvgtumxzjtv xvd lhnnolzjtvl, krjwr J wtmmovd zt zro
gxptuxcao wtvljdouxzjtv tg Wtvnuoll.

J rxpo xauoxdf uowtmmovdod zro uxjljvn tg gthu xddjzjtvxa uonjmovzl, xvd
zro uostuz tg zro Lowuozxuf tg Kxu suolovzl lzutvn uoxltvl sutpjvn zrjl
jvwuoxlo tg zro Xumf hvdou objlzjvn wjuwhmlzxvwol zt co jvdjlsovlxcao.

J kthad wxaa zro lsowjxa xzzovzjtv tg Wtvnuoll zt zro uowtmmovdxzjtv tg zro
Lowuozxuf tg zro Vxpf jv gxptu tg zro wtvlzuhwzjtv tg zov lmxaa kxu
lzoxmoul tg ajnrz duxgz. Gtu ltmo foxul zro Ntpouvmovz rxl coov tcajnod tv
mxvf twwxljtvl zt rjuo lhwr lzoxmoul gutm jvdjpjdhxal zt lhssaf jzl
suolljvn kxvzl. Xz zro suolovz mtmovz ko rxpo vt xumod polloa jv zro Vxpf
krjwr wxv sovozuxzo zro ujpoul tg Wrjvx. Ko rxpo chz gok krjwr wxv ovzou
xvf tg zro rxuctul lthzr tg Vtugtai, xazrthnr mxvf mjaajtvl tg gtuojnv xvd
dtmolzjw wtmmouwo xvvhxaaf sxll jv xvd thz tg zrolo rxuctul. Ltmo tg thu
mtlz pxahxcao jvzouolzl xvd mtlz phavouxcao stjvzl xuo zrhl aogz obstlod.
Zrjl waxll tg polloal tg ajnrz duxgz, nuoxz lsood, xvd roxpf nhvl kthad co
gtumjdxcao jv wtxlz dogovlo. Zro wtlz tg zroju wtvlzuhwzjtv kjaa vtz co
nuoxz xvd zrof kjaa uoqhjuo chz x wtmsxuxzjpoaf lmxaa obsovdjzhuo zt ioos
zrom jv wtmmjlljtv. Jv zjmo tg soxwo zrof kjaa sutpo xl oggowzjpo xl mhwr
axunou polloal xvd mtuo hlogha. Tvo tg zrom lrthad co xz opouf lzxzjtv
krouo ko mxjvzxjv x lqhxdutv, xvd zruoo tu gthu lrthad co wtvlzxvzaf
omsatfod tv thu Xzaxvzjw xvd Sxwjgjw wtxlzl. Owtvtmf, hzjajzf, xvd
oggjwjovwf wtmcjvo zt uowtmmovd zrom xl xamtlz jvdjlsovlxcao. Zov tg zrolo
lmxaa polloal kthad co tg jvwxawhaxcao xdpxvzxno zt zro vxpxa loupjwo, xvd
zro krtao wtlz tg zroju wtvlzuhwzjtv kthad vtz obwood $2,300,000, tu
$230,000 oxwr.

Zro uostuz tg zro Lowuozxuf tg zro Jvzoujtu jl ktuzrf tg nuxpo
wtvljdouxzjtv. Jz zuoxzl tg zro vhmouthl jmstuzxvz xvd djpouljgjod cuxvwrol
tg dtmolzjw xdmjvjlzuxzjtv jvzuhlzod zt rjm cf axk. Xmtvn zrolo zro mtlz
sutmjvovz xuo zro shcajw axvdl xvd thu uoaxzjtvl kjzr zro Jvdjxvl. Thu
lflzom gtu zro djlstlxa tg zro shcajw axvdl, tujnjvxzjvn kjzr zro gxzroul
tg zro Uoshcajw, rxl coov jmsutpod xl obsoujovwo stjvzod zro kxf, xvd
nuxdhxaaf xdxszod zt zro nutkzr xvd lozzaomovz tg thu Kolzouv Lzxzol xvd
Zouujztujol. Jz rxl ktuiod koaa jv suxwzjwo. Xauoxdf zrjuzoov Lzxzol xvd
lopov Zouujztujol rxpo coov wxupod thz tg zrolo axvdl, xvd lzjaa mtuo zrxv
x zrthlxvd mjaajtvl tg xwuol uomxjv hvltad. Krxz x cthvdaoll sutlsowz zrjl
suolovzl zt thu wthvzuf tg ghzhuo sutlsoujzf xvd stkou!

Ko rxpo rouoztgtuo djlstlod tg 363,862,464 xwuol tg zro shcajw axvd. Krjalz
zro shcajw axvdl, xl x lthuwo tg uopovho, xuo tg nuoxz jmstuzxvwo, zroju
jmstuzxvwo jl gxu nuoxzou xl ghuvjlrjvn rtmol gtu x rxudf xvd jvdosovdovz
uxwo tg rtvolz xvd jvdhlzujthl wjzjyovl krt doljuo zt lhcdho xvd whazjpxzo
zro ltja. Zrof thnrz zt co xdmjvjlzouod mxjvaf kjzr x pjok tg sutmtzjvn
zrjl kjlo xvd covoptaovz stajwf. Jv xssutsujxzjvn zrom gtu xvf tzrou
shustlo ko thnrz zt hlo opov nuoxzou owtvtmf zrxv jg zrof rxd coov
wtvpouzod jvzt mtvof xvd zro sutwoodl kouo xauoxdf jv zro shcajw Zuoxlhuf.
Zt lqhxvdou xkxf zrjl ujwrolz xvd vtcaolz jvroujzxvwo krjwr xvf sotsao rxpo
opou ovetfod hstv tceowzl tg dthczgha wtvlzjzhzjtvxajzf tu obsodjovwf kthad
co zt pjtaxzo tvo tg zro mtlz jmstuzxvz zuhlzl opou wtmmjzzod zt xvf
sotsao. Krjalz J dt vtz dovf zt Wtvnuoll zro stkou, krov xwzjvn ctvx gjdo
xl x sutsujoztu, zt njpo xkxf stuzjtvl tg zrom gtu zro shustlo tg
jvwuoxljvn zro pxaho tg zro uomxjvdou, foz, wtvljdoujvn zro nuoxz
zomszxzjtv zt xchlo zrjl stkou, ko wxv vtz co ztt wxhzjthl jv jzl obouwjlo.
Xwzhxa lozzaoul hvdou objlzjvn axkl xuo sutzowzod xnxjvlz tzrou shuwrxloul
xz zro shcajw lxaol jv zroju ujnrz tg suoomszjtv zt zro obzovz tg x qhxuzou
lowzjtv, tu 160 xwuol, tg axvd. Zro uomxjvdou mxf zrov co djlstlod tg xz
shcajw tu ovzouod xz sujpxzo lxao jv hvajmjzod qhxvzjzjol. Lsowhaxzjtv rxl
tg axzo foxul suopxjaod zt x nuoxz obzovz jv zro shcajw axvdl. Zro
wtvloqhovwo rxl coov zrxz axuno stuzjtvl tg zrom rxpo cowtmo zro sutsouzf
tg jvdjpjdhxal xvd wtmsxvjol, xvd zrhl zro sujwo jl nuoxzaf ovrxvwod zt
zrtlo krt doljuo zt shuwrxlo gtu xwzhxa lozzaomovz. Jv tudou zt ajmjz zro
xuox tg lsowhaxzjtv xl mhwr xl stlljcao, zro obzjvwzjtv tg zro Jvdjxv zjzao
xvd zro obzovljtv tg zro shcajw lhupofl thnrz tvaf zt ioos sxwo kjzr zro
zjdo tg omjnuxzjtv.

Jg Wtvnuoll lrthad rouoxgzou nuxvz xazouvxzo lowzjtvl zt Lzxzol tu
wtmsxvjol, xl zrof rxpo dtvo rouoztgtuo, J uowtmmovd zrxz zro jvzoumodjxzo
lowzjtvl uozxjvod cf zro Ntpouvmovz lrthad co lhceowz zt suoomszjtv cf
xwzhxa lozzaoul.

Jz thnrz opou zt co thu wxudjvxa stajwf zt uoloupo zro shcajw axvdl xl mhwr
xl mxf co gtu xwzhxa lozzaoul, xvd zrjl xz mtdouxzo sujwol. Ko lrxaa zrhl
vtz tvaf colz sutmtzo zro sutlsoujzf tg zro vok Lzxzol xvd Zouujztujol xvd
zro stkou tg zro Hvjtv, chz lrxaa lowhuo rtmol gtu thu stlzoujzf gtu mxvf
novouxzjtvl.

Zro obzovljtv tg thu ajmjzl rxl cuthnrz kjzrjv thu ehujldjwzjtv mxvf
xddjzjtvxa xvd stshathl zujcol tg Jvdjxvl, x axuno sutstuzjtv tg krjwr xuo
kjad, hvzuxwzxcao, xvd djggjwhaz zt wtvzuta. Suodxztuf xvd kxuajio jv zroju
djlstljzjtv xvd rxcjzl, jz jl jmstlljcao xaztnozrou zt uolzuxjv zrom gutm
wtmmjzzjvn xnnuolljtvl tv oxwr tzrou, xl koaa xl hstv thu gutvzjou wjzjyovl
xvd zrtlo omjnuxzjvn zt thu djlzxvz Lzxzol xvd Zouujztujol. Rovwo obsovljpo
mjajzxuf obsodjzjtvl xuo guoqhovzaf vowollxuf zt tpouxko xvd wrxlzjlo zro
mtuo axkaoll xvd rtlzjao. Zro suolovz lflzom tg mxijvn zrom pxahxcao
suolovzl zt jvgahovwo zrom zt uomxjv xz soxwo rxl sutpod jvoggowzhxa. Jz jl
coajopod zt co zro cozzou stajwf zt wtatvjyo zrom jv lhjzxcao atwxajzjol
krouo zrof wxv uowojpo zro uhdjmovzl tg odhwxzjtv xvd co nuxdhxaaf jvdhwod
zt xdtsz rxcjzl tg jvdhlzuf. Lt gxu xl zro obsoujmovz rxl coov zujod jz rxl
ktuiod koaa jv suxwzjwo, xvd jz kjaa dthczaoll sutpo zt co aoll obsovljpo
zrxv zro suolovz lflzom.

Zro krtao vhmcou tg Jvdjxvl kjzrjv thu zouujztujxa ajmjzl jl coajopod zt
co, gutm zro colz dxzx jv zro Jvzoujtu Dosxuzmovz, xcthz 325,000. Zro
zujcol tg Wroutiool, Wrtwzxkl, Wrjwixlxkl, xvd Wuooil lozzaod jv zro
Zouujztuf loz xsxuz gtu zrom kolz tg Xuixvlxl xuo uxsjdaf xdpxvwjvn jv
odhwxzjtv xvd jv xaa zro xuzl tg wjpjajyxzjtv xvd loag-ntpouvmovz xvd ko
mxf jvdhano zro xnuooxcao xvzjwjsxzjtv zrxz xz vt pouf djlzxvz dxf zrof
kjaa co jvwtustuxzod jvzt zro Hvjtv xl tvo tg zro ltpouojnv Lzxzol.

Jz kjaa co loov gutm zro uostuz tg zro Stlzmxlzou-Novouxa zrxz zro
Stlz-Tggjwo Dosxuzmovz lzjaa wtvzjvhol zt dosovd tv zro Zuoxlhuf, xl jz rxl
coov wtmsoaaod zt dt gtu lopouxa foxul sxlz, gtu xv jmstuzxvz stuzjtv tg
zro moxvl tg lhlzxjvjvn xvd obzovdjvn jzl tsouxzjtvl. Zroju uxsjd nutkzr
xvd obsxvljtv xuo lrtkv cf x dowovvjxa lzxzomovz tg zro vhmcou tg
stlz-tggjwol xvd zro aovnzr tg stlz-utxdl, wtmmovwjvn kjzr zro foxu 1827.
Jv zrxz foxu zrouo kouo 7,000 stlz-tggjwol; jv 1837, 11,177; jv 1847,
15,146, xvd jv 1857 zrof vhmcou 26,586. Jv zrjl foxu 1,725 stlz-tggjwol
rxpo coov olzxcajlrod xvd 704 djlwtvzjvhod, aoxpjvn x voz jvwuoxlo tg
1,021. Zro stlzmxlzoul tg 368 tggjwol xuo xsstjvzod cf zro Suoljdovz.

Zro aovnzr tg stlz-utxdl jv 1827 kxl 105,336 mjaol; jv 1837,141,242 mjaol;
jv 1847, 153,818 mjaol, xvd jv zro foxu 1857 zrouo xuo 242,601 mjaol tg
stlz-utxd, jvwahdjvn 22,530 mjaol tg uxjautxd tv krjwr zro mxjal xuo
zuxvlstuzod.

Zro obsovdjzhuol tg zro Dosxuzmovz gtu zro gjlwxa foxu ovdjvn tv zro 30zr
Ehvo, 1857, xl xdehlzod cf zro Xhdjztu, xmthvzod zt $11,507,670. Zt doguxf
zrolo obsovdjzhuol zrouo kxl zt zro wuodjz tg zro Dosxuzmovz tv zro 1lz
Ehaf, 1856, zro lhm tg $789,599; zro nutll uopovho tg zro foxu, jvwahdjvn
zro xvvhxa xaatkxvwol gtu zro zuxvlstuzxzjtv tg guoo mxja mxzzou, sutdhwod
$8,053,951, xvd zro uomxjvdou kxl lhssajod cf zro xssutsujxzjtv gutm zro
Zuoxlhuf tg $2,250,000 nuxvzod cf zro xwz tg Wtvnuoll xssutpod Xhnhlz 18,
1856, xvd cf zro xssutsujxzjtv tg $666,883 mxdo cf zro xwz tg Mxuwr 3,
1857, aoxpjvn $252,763 zt co wxuujod zt zro wuodjz tg zro Dosxuzmovz jv zro
xwwthvzl tg zro whuuovz foxu. J wtmmovd zt fthu wtvljdouxzjtv zro uostuz tg
zro Dosxuzmovz jv uoaxzjtv zt zro olzxcajlrmovz tg zro tpouaxvd mxja uthzo
gutm zro Mjlljlljssj Ujpou zt Lxv Guxvwjlwt, Wxa. Zro uthzo kxl loaowzod
kjzr mf ghaa wtvwhuuovwo, xl zro tvo, jv mf ehdnmovz, colz wxawhaxzod zt
xzzxjv zro jmstuzxvz tceowzl wtvzomsaxzod cf Wtvnuoll.

Zro axzo djlxlzuthl mtvozxuf uophaljtv mxf rxpo tvo nttd oggowz lrthad jz
wxhlo ctzr zro Ntpouvmovz xvd zro sotsao zt uozhuv zt zro suxwzjwo tg x
kjlo xvd ehdjwjthl owtvtmf ctzr jv shcajw xvd sujpxzo obsovdjzhuol.

Xv tpougatkjvn Zuoxlhuf rxl aod zt rxcjzl tg sutdjnxajzf xvd obzuxpxnxvwo
jv thu aonjlaxzjtv. Jz rxl jvdhwod Wtvnuoll zt mxio axuno xssutsujxzjtvl zt
tceowzl gtu krjwr zrof vopou kthad rxpo sutpjdod rxd jz coov vowollxuf zt
uxjlo zro xmthvz tg uopovho uoqhjuod zt mooz zrom cf jvwuoxlod zxbxzjtv tu
cf atxvl. Ko xuo vtk wtmsoaaod zt sxhlo jv thu wxuoou xvd zt lwuhzjvjyo thu
obsovdjzhuol kjzr zro hzmtlz pjnjaxvwo; xvd jv sougtumjvn zrjl dhzf J
saodno mf wttsouxzjtv zt zro obzovz tg mf wtvlzjzhzjtvxa wtmsozovwf.

Jz thnrz zt co tcloupod xz zro lxmo zjmo zrxz zuho shcajw owtvtmf dtol vtz
wtvljlz jv kjzrrtadjvn zro moxvl vowollxuf zt xwwtmsajlr jmstuzxvz vxzjtvxa
tceowzl jvzuhlzod zt hl cf zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv, xvd olsowjxaaf lhwr xl mxf co
vowollxuf gtu zro wtmmtv dogovlo. Jv zro suolovz wujljl tg zro wthvzuf jz
jl thu dhzf zt wtvgjvo thu xssutsujxzjtvl zt tceowzl tg zrjl wrxuxwzou,
hvaoll jv wxlol krouo ehlzjwo zt jvdjpjdhxal mxf domxvd x djggouovz wthulo.
Jv xaa wxlol wxuo thnrz zt co zxiov zrxz zro mtvof nuxvzod cf Wtvnuoll
lrxaa co gxjzrghaaf xvd owtvtmjwxaaf xssajod.

Hvdou zro Godouxa Wtvlzjzhzjtv "opouf cjaa krjwr lrxaa rxpo sxllod zro
Rthlo tg Uosuolovzxzjpol xvd zro Lovxzo lrxaa, cogtuo jz cowtmo x axk," co
xssutpod xvd ljnvod cf zro Suoljdovz; xvd jg vtz xssutpod, "ro lrxaa uozhuv
jz kjzr rjl tceowzjtvl zt zrxz Rthlo jv krjwr jz lrxaa rxpo tujnjvxzod." Jv
tudou zt sougtum zrjl rjnr xvd uolstvljcao dhzf, lhggjwjovz zjmo mhlz co
xaatkod zro Suoljdovz zt uoxd xvd obxmjvo opouf cjaa suolovzod zt rjm gtu
xssutpxa. Hvaoll zrjl co xggtudod, zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv cowtmol x doxd aozzou
jv zrjl sxuzjwhaxu, xvd; opov ktulo, jz cowtmol x moxvl tg dowoszjtv. Thu
wtvlzjzhovzl, loojvn zro Suoljdovz'l xssutpxa xvd ljnvxzhuo xzzxwrod zt
oxwr xwz tg Wtvnuoll, xuo jvdhwod zt coajopo zrxz ro rxl xwzhxaaf sougtumod
rjl dhzf, krov jv zuhzr vtzrjvn jl jv mxvf wxlol mtuo hvgthvdod.

Gutm zro suxwzjwo tg Wtvnuoll lhwr xv obxmjvxzjtv tg oxwr cjaa xl zro
Wtvlzjzhzjtv uoqhjuol rxl coov uovdouod jmstlljcao. Zro mtlz jmstuzxvz
chljvoll tg oxwr lolljtv jl novouxaaf wutkdod jvzt jzl axlz rthul, xvd zro
xazouvxzjpo suolovzod zt zro Suoljdovz jl ojzrou zt pjtaxzo zro
wtvlzjzhzjtvxa dhzf krjwr ro tkol zt zro sotsao xvd xssutpo cjaal krjwr gtu
kxvz tg zjmo jz jl jmstlljcao ro lrthad rxpo obxmjvod, tu cf rjl uoghlxa zt
dt zrjl lhceowz zro wthvzuf xvd jvdjpjdhxal zt nuoxz atll xvd
jvwtvpovjovwo.

Coljdol, x suxwzjwo rxl nutkv hs tg axzo foxul zt aonjlaxzo jv
xssutsujxzjtv cjaal xz zro axlz rthul tg zro lolljtv tv vok xvd jmstuzxvz
lhceowzl. Zrjl suxwzjwo wtvlzuxjvl zro Suoljdovz ojzrou zt lhggou moxlhuol
zt cowtmo axkl krjwr ro dtol vtz xssutpo tu zt jvwhu zro ujli tg lztssjvn
zro krooal tg zro Ntpouvmovz cf poztjvn xv xssutsujxzjtv cjaa. Gtumouaf
lhwr cjaal kouo wtvgjvod zt lsowjgjw xssutsujxzjtvl gtu wxuufjvn jvzt
oggowz objlzjvn axkl xvd zro koaa-olzxcajlrod stajwf tg zro wthvzuf, xvd
ajzzao zjmo kxl zrov uoqhjzod cf zro Suoljdovz gtu zroju obxmjvxzjtv.

Gtu mf tkv sxuz, J rxpo doajcouxzoaf dozoumjvod zrxz J lrxaa xssutpo vt
cjaal krjwr J rxpo vtz obxmjvod, xvd jz kjaa co x wxlo tg obzuomo xvd mtlz
hunovz vowolljzf krjwr lrxaa opou jvdhwo mo zt dosxuz gutm zrjl uhao. J
zrouogtuo uolsowzghaaf chz oxuvolzaf uowtmmovd zrxz zro zkt Rthlol kthad
xaatk zro Suoljdovz xz aoxlz zkt dxfl suopjthl zt zro xdethuvmovz tg oxwr
lolljtv kjzrjv krjwr vt vok cjaa lrxaa co suolovzod zt rjm gtu xssutpxa.
Hvdou zro objlzjvn etjvz uhao tvo dxf jl xaatkod, chz zrjl uhao rxl coov
rjzrouzt lt wtvlzxvzaf lhlsovdod jv suxwzjwo zrxz jmstuzxvz cjaal wtvzjvho
zt co suolovzod zt rjm hs zjaa zro pouf axlz mtmovzl tg zro lolljtv. Jv x
axuno mxetujzf tg wxlol vt nuoxz shcajw jvwtvpovjovwo wxv xujlo gutm zro
kxvz tg zjmo zt obxmjvo zroju sutpjljtvl, cowxhlo zro Wtvlzjzhzjtv rxl
dowaxuod zrxz jg x cjaa co suolovzod zt zro Suoljdovz kjzrjv zro axlz zov
dxfl tg zro lolljtv ro jl vtz uoqhjuod zt uozhuv jz, ojzrou kjzr xv
xssutpxa tu kjzr x pozt, "jv krjwr wxlo jz lrxaa vtz co x axk." Jz mxf zrov
ajo tpou xvd co zxiov hs xvd sxllod xz zro vobz lolljtv. Nuoxz
jvwtvpovjovwo kthad tvaf co obsoujovwod jv uonxud zt xssutsujxzjtv cjaal,
chz, gtuzhvxzoaf, hvdou zro axzo obwoaaovz axk xaatkjvn x lxaxuf jvlzoxd tg
x sou djom zt momcoul tg Wtvnuoll zro obsovlo xvd jvwtvpovjovwo tg x wxaaod
lolljtv kjaa co nuoxzaf uodhwod.

J wxv vtz wtvwahdo kjzrthz wtmmovdjvn zt fthu gxptuxcao wtvljdouxzjtv zro
jvzouolz tg zro sotsao tg zrjl Djlzujwz. Kjzrthz x uosuolovzxzjpo tv zro
gattu tg Wtvnuoll, zrof rxpo gtu zrjl pouf uoxltv sowhajxu waxjml hstv thu
ehlz uonxud. Zt zrjl J ivtk, gutm mf atvn xwqhxjvzxvwo kjzr zrom, zrof xuo
omjvovzaf ovzjzaod.