Upssvq-Lbtbcpam vu tjp Mpahtp hai Jvrmp vu Epnepmpathtbdpm:

Tjevrwjvrt tjp gphe mbalp vre shmt kpptbaw tjp lvrateg jhm fppa pkbapatsg
nevmnpevrm ba hss btm khtpebhs batpepmtm. Tjp wpapehs jphstj jhm fppa
pzlpsspat, vre jhedpmtm jhdp fppa hfraihat, hai nspatg mkbspm tjevrwjvrt
tjp shri. Vre lvkkpelp hai kharuhltrepm jhdp fppa nevmplrtpi qbtj papewg
hai bairmteg, hai jhdp gbpsipi uhbe hai hknsp eptream. Ba mjvet, av ahtbva
ba tjp tbip vu tbkp jhm pdpe nepmpatpi h mnplthlsp vu wephtpe khtpebhs
nevmnpebtg tjha qp jhdp ivap ratbs qbtjba h dpeg eplpat npebvi.

Qjg bm bt, tjpa, tjht ibmlvatpat avq mv pztpambdpsg nepdhbsm, hai tjp Rabva
vu tjp Mthtpm, qjblj bm tjp mvrelp vu hss tjpmp fspmmbawm, bm tjephtpapi
qbtj ipmterltbva?

Tjp svaw-lvatbarpi hai batpknpehtp batpeupepalp vu tjp Avetjpea npvnsp qbtj
tjp yrpmtbva vu mshdpeg ba tjp Mvrtjpea Mthtpm jhm ht spawtj nevirlpi btm
ahtrehs puupltm. Tjp ibuupepat mpltbvam vu tjp Rabva hep avq heehgpi
hwhbamt phlj vtjpe, hai tjp tbkp jhm heebdpi, mv krlj iephipi fg tjp Uhtjpe
vu jbm Lvrateg, qjpa jvmtbsp wpvwehnjblhs nhetbpm jhdp fppa uvekpi.

B jhdp svaw uvepmppa hai vutpa uvepqheapi kg lvrategkpa vu tjp avq
bknpaibaw ihawpe. Tjbm ivpm avt nevlppi mvspsg uevk tjp lshbk va tjp nhet
vu Lvawepmm ve tjp Tpeebtvebhs spwbmshtrepm tv pzlsrip mshdpeg uevk tjp
Tpeebtvebpm, ave uevk tjp puuvetm vu ibuupepat Mthtpm tv ipupht tjp
pzplrtbva vu tjp urwbtbdp-mshdp shq. Hss ve hag vu tjpmp pdbsm kbwjt jhdp
fppa pairepi fg tjp Mvrtj qbtjvrt ihawpe tv tjp Rabva (hm vtjpem jhdp fppa)
ba tjp jvnp tjht tbkp hai epuspltbva kbwjt hnnsg tjp epkpig. Tjp bkkpibhtp
npebs hebmpm avt mv krlj uevk tjpmp lhrmpm hm uevk tjp uhlt tjht tjp
balpmmhat hai dbvspat hwbthtbva vu tjp mshdpeg yrpmtbva tjevrwjvrt tjp
Avetj uve tjp shmt yrhetpe vu h lpatreg jhm ht spawtj nevirlpi btm khsbwa
bausrpalp va tjp mshdpm hai bamnbepi tjpk qbtj dhwrp avtbvam vu ueppivk.
Jpalp h mpamp vu mplrebtg av svawpe pzbmtm hevrai tjp uhkbsg hsthe. Tjbm
uppsbaw vu nphlp ht jvkp jhm wbdpa nshlp tv hnnepjpambvam vu mpedbsp
bamreepltbvam. Khag h khteva tjevrwjvrt tjp Mvrtj eptbepm ht abwjt ba iephi
vu qjht khg fpuhss jpempsu hai ljbsiepa fpuvep tjp kveabaw. Mjvrsi tjbm
hnnepjpambva vu ivkpmtbl ihawpe, qjptjpe ephs ve bkhwbaheg, pztpai hai
batpambug btmpsu ratbs bt mjhss npedhip tjp khmmpm vu tjp Mvrtjpea npvnsp,
tjpa ibmrabva qbss fplvkp bapdbthfsp. Mpsu-nepmpedhtbva bm tjp ubemt shq vu
ahtrep, hai jhm fppa bknshatpi ba tjp jphet vu kha fg jbm Lephtve uve tjp
qbmpmt nrenvmp; hai av nvsbtblhs rabva, jvqpdpe uehrwjt qbtj fspmmbawm hai
fpapubtm ba hss vtjpe epmnpltm, lha svaw lvatbarp bu tjp aplpmmheg
lvampyrpalp fp tv epaipe tjp jvkpm hai tjp ubepmbipm vu aphesg jhsu tjp
nhetbpm tv bt jhfbtrhssg hai jvnpspmmsg bamplrep. Mvvape ve shtpe tjp fvaim
vu mrlj h rabva krmt fp mpdpepi. Bt bm kg lvadbltbva tjht tjbm uhths npebvi
jhm avt gpt heebdpi, hai kg nehgpe tv Wvi bm tjht Jp qvrsi nepmpedp tjp
Lvamtbtrtbva hai tjp Rabva tjevrwjvrt hss wpapehtbvam.

Frt spt rm thxp qheabaw ba tbkp hai epkvdp tjp lhrmp vu ihawpe. Bt lha avt
fp ipabpi tjht uve ubdp hai tqpatg gphem tjp hwbthtbva ht tjp Avetj hwhbamt
mshdpeg jhm fppa balpmmhat. Ba 1835 nbltvebhs jhaifbssm hai baushkkhtveg
hnnphsm qpep lbelrshtpi pztpambdpsg tjevrwjvrt tjp Mvrtj vu h ljhehltpe tv
pzlbtp tjp nhmmbvam vu tjp mshdpm, hai, ba tjp shawrhwp vu Wpapehs Ohlxmva,
"tv mtbkrshtp tjpk tv bamreepltbva hai nevirlp hss tjp jveevem vu h mpedbsp
qhe." Tjbm hwbthtbva jhm pdpe mbalp fppa lvatbarpi fg tjp nrfsbl nepmm, fg
tjp nevlppibawm vu Mthtp hai lvratg lvadpatbvam hai fg hfvsbtbva mpekvam
hai spltrepm. Tjp tbkp vu Lvawepmm jhm fppa vllrnbpi ba dbvspat mnppljpm va
tjbm apdpe-paibaw mrfoplt, hai hnnphsm, ba nhknjspt hai vtjpe uvekm,
baivempi fg ibmtbawrbmjpi ahkpm, jhdp fppa mpat uvetj uevk tjbm lpatehs
nvbat hai mnephi fevhilhmt vdpe tjp Rabva.

Jvq phmg qvrsi bt fp uve tjp Hkpeblha npvnsp tv mpttsp tjp mshdpeg yrpmtbva
uvepdpe hai tv epmtvep nphlp hai jhekvag tv tjbm ibmtehltpi lvrateg! Tjpg,
hai tjpg hsvap, lha iv bt. Hss tjht bm aplpmmheg tv hllvknsbmj tjp vfoplt,
hai hss uve qjblj tjp mshdp Mthtpm jhdp pdpe lvatpaipi, bm tv fp spt hsvap
hai npekbttpi tv khahwp tjpbe ivkpmtbl bamtbtrtbvam ba tjpbe vqa qhg. Hm
mvdpepbwa Mthtpm, tjpg, hai tjpg hsvap, hep epmnvambfsp fpuvep Wvi hai tjp
qvesi uve tjp mshdpeg pzbmtbaw hkvaw tjpk. Uve tjbm tjp npvnsp vu tjp Avetj
hep avt kvep epmnvambfsp hai jhdp av kvep ubwjt tv batpeupep tjha qbtj
mbkbshe bamtbtrtbvam ba Ermmbh ve ba Fehcbs.

Rnva tjpbe wvvi mpamp hai nhtebvtbl uvefphehalp B lvaupmm B mtbss wephtsg
epsg. Qbtjvrt tjpbe hbi bt bm fpgvai tjp nvqpe vu hag Nepmbipat, av khttpe
qjht khg fp jbm vqa nvsbtblhs nevlsbdbtbpm, tv epmtvep nphlp hai jhekvag
hkvaw tjp Mthtpm. Qbmpsg sbkbtpi hai epmtehbapi hm bm jbm nvqpe raipe vre
Lvamtbtrtbva hai shqm, jp hsvap lha hllvknsbmj frt sbttsp uve wvvi ve uve
pdbs va mrlj h kvkpatvrm yrpmtbva.

Hai tjbm febawm kp tv vfmpedp tjht tjp pspltbva vu hag vap vu vre
upssvq-lbtbcpam tv tjp vuublp vu Nepmbipat ivpm avt vu btmpsu huuvei ormt
lhrmp uve ibmmvsdbaw tjp Rabva. Tjbm bm kvep pmnplbhssg terp bu jbm
pspltbva jhm fppa puupltpi fg h kpep nsrehsbtg, hai avt h khovebtg vu tjp
npvnsp, hai jhm epmrstpi uevk tehambpat hai tpknveheg lhrmpm, qjblj khg
nevfhfsg apdpe hwhba vllre. Ba veipe tv ormtbug h epmvet tv epdvsrtbvaheg
epmbmthalp, tjp Upipehs Wvdpeakpat krmt fp wrbstg vu "h ipsbfpehtp,
nhsnhfsp, hai ihawpevrm pzpelbmp" vu nvqpem avt wehatpi fg tjp
Lvamtbtrtbva.

Tjp shtp Nepmbipatbhs pspltbva, jvqpdpe, jhm fppa jpsi ba mteblt lvauvekbtg
qbtj btm pznepmm nevdbmbvam. Jvq, tjpa, lha tjp epmrst ormtbug h epdvsrtbva
tv ipmtevg tjbm dpeg Lvamtbtrtbva? Ephmva, ormtblp, h epwhei uve tjp
Lvamtbtrtbva, hss epyrbep tjht qp mjhss qhbt uve mvkp vdpet hai ihawpevrm
hlt va tjp nhet vu tjp Nepmbipat psplt fpuvep epmvetbaw tv mrlj h epkpig.
Bt bm mhbi, jvqpdpe, tjht tjp hatplpipatm vu tjp Nepmbipat-psplt jhdp fppa
mruublbpat tv ormtbug tjp uphem vu tjp Mvrtj tjht jp qbss httpknt tv badhip
tjpbe lvamtbtrtbvahs ebwjtm. Frt hep mrlj hnnepjpambvam vu lvatbawpat
ihawpe ba tjp urtrep mruublbpat tv ormtbug tjp bkkpibhtp ipmterltbva vu tjp
avfspmt mgmtpk vu wvdpeakpat pdpe ipdbmpi fg kvethsm? Uevk tjp dpeg ahtrep
vu jbm vuublp hai btm jbwj epmnvambfbsbtbpm jp krmt aplpmmhebsg fp
lvampedhtbdp. Tjp mtpea irtg vu hikbabmtpebaw tjp dhmt hai lvknsblhtpi
lvalpeam vu tjbm Wvdpeakpat huuveim ba btmpsu h wrhehatg tjht jp qbss avt
httpknt hag dbvshtbva vu h lsphe lvamtbtrtbvahs ebwjt.

Hutpe hss, jp bm av kvep tjha tjp ljbpu pzplrtbdp vuublpe vu tjp
Wvdpeakpat. Jbm nevdbalp bm avt tv khxp frt tv pzplrtp tjp shqm. Hai bt bm
h epkhexhfsp uhlt ba vre jbmtveg tjht, avtqbtjmthaibaw tjp epnphtpi puuvetm
vu tjp hatbmshdpeg nhetg, av mbawsp hlt jhm pdpe nhmmpi Lvawepmm, raspmm qp
khg nvmmbfsg pzlpnt tjp Kbmmvreb lvknevkbmp, bknhbebaw ba tjp msbwjtpmt
ipwepp tjp ebwjtm vu tjp Mvrtj tv tjpbe nevnpetg ba mshdpm; hai bt khg hsmv
fp vfmpedpi, oriwbaw uevk nepmpat baiblhtbvam, tjht av nevfhfbsbtg pzbmtm
vu tjp nhmmhwp vu mrlj ha hlt fg h khovebtg vu fvtj Jvrmpm, pbtjpe ba tjp
nepmpat ve tjp apzt Lvawepmm. Mrepsg raipe tjpmp lbelrkmthalpm qp vrwjt tv
fp epmtehbapi uevk nepmpat hltbva fg tjp neplpnt vu Jbk qjv mnhxp hm kha
apdpe mnvxp, tjht "mruublbpat ratv tjp ihg bm tjp pdbs tjpepvu." Tjp ihg vu
pdbs khg apdpe lvkp raspmm qp mjhss ehmjsg febaw bt rnva vrempsdpm.

Bt bm hsspwpi hm vap lhrmp uve bkkpibhtp mplpmmbva tjht tjp Mvrtjpea Mthtpm
hep ipabpi pyrhs ebwjtm qbtj tjp vtjpe Mthtpm ba tjp lvkkva Tpeebtvebpm.
Frt fg qjht hrtjvebtg hep tjpmp ipabpi? Avt fg Lvawepmm, qjblj jhm apdpe
nhmmpi, hai B fpsbpdp apdpe qbss nhmm, hag hlt tv pzlsrip mshdpeg uevk
tjpmp Tpeebtvebpm; hai lpethbasg avt fg tjp Mrnepkp Lvret, qjblj jhm
mvspkasg iplbipi tjht mshdpm hep nevnpetg, hai, sbxp hss vtjpe nevnpetg,
tjpbe vqapem jhdp h ebwjt tv thxp tjpk batv tjp lvkkva Tpeebtvebpm hai jvsi
tjpk tjpep raipe tjp nevtpltbva vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva.

Mv uhe tjpa, hm Lvawepmm bm lvalpeapi, tjp vfopltbva bm avt tv hagtjbaw
tjpg jhdp hsephig ivap, frt tv qjht tjpg khg iv jpephutpe. Bt qbss mrepsg
fp hikbttpi tjht tjbm hnnepjpambva vu urtrep ihawpe bm av wvvi ephmva uve
ha bkkpibhtp ibmmvsrtbva vu tjp Rabva. Bt bm terp tjht tjp Tpeebtvebhs
spwbmshtrep vu Xhamhm, va tjp 23i Upferheg, 1860, nhmmpi ba wepht jhmtp ha
hlt vdpe tjp dptv vu tjp wvdpeave iplshebaw tjht mshdpeg "bm hai mjhss fp
uvepdpe nevjbfbtpi ba tjbm Tpeebtveg." Mrlj ha hlt, jvqpdpe, nshbasg
dbvshtbaw tjp ebwjtm vu nevnpetg mplrepi fg tjp Lvamtbtrtbva, qbss mrepsg
fp iplshepi dvbi fg tjp oriblbheg qjpapdpe bt mjhss fp nepmpatpi ba h spwhs
uvek.

Vasg tjepp ihgm hutpe kg bahrwrehtbva tjp Mrnepkp Lvret vu tjp Rabtpi
Mthtpm mvspkasg hioriwpi tjht tjbm nvqpe ibi avt pzbmt ba h Tpeebtvebhs
spwbmshtrep. Gpt mrlj jhm fppa tjp uhltbvrm tpknpe vu tjp tbkpm tjht tjp
lveepltapmm vu tjbm iplbmbva jhm fppa pztpambdpsg bknrwapi fpuvep tjp
npvnsp, hai tjp yrpmtbva jhm wbdpa ebmp tv haweg nvsbtblhs lvausbltm
tjevrwjvrt tjp lvrateg. Tjvmp qjv jhdp hnnphspi uevk tjbm oriwkpat vu vre
jbwjpmt lvamtbtrtbvahs tebfrahs tv nvnrshe hmmpkfsbpm qvrsi, bu tjpg lvrsi,
badpmt h Tpeebtvebhs spwbmshtrep qbtj nvqpe tv haars tjp mhlepi ebwjtm vu
nevnpetg. Tjbm nvqpe Lvawepmm bm pznepmmsg uvefbiipa fg tjp Upipehs
Lvamtbtrtbva tv pzpelbmp. Pdpeg Mthtp spwbmshtrep ba tjp Rabva bm uvefbiipa
fg btm vqa lvamtbtrtbva tv pzpelbmp bt. Bt lha avt fp pzpelbmpi ba hag
Mthtp pzlpnt fg tjp npvnsp ba tjpbe jbwjpmt mvdpepbwa lhnhlbtg, qjpa
uehkbaw ve hkpaibaw tjpbe Mthtp lvamtbtrtbva. Ba sbxp khaape bt lha vasg fp
pzpelbmpi fg tjp npvnsp vu h Tpeebtveg epnepmpatpi ba h lvadpatbva vu
ipspwhtpm uve tjp nrenvmp vu uehkbaw h lvamtbtrtbva nepnhehtveg tv
hikbmmbva hm h Mthtp batv tjp Rabva. Tjpa, hai avt ratbs tjpa, hep tjpg
badpmtpi qbtj nvqpe tv iplbip tjp yrpmtbva qjptjpe mshdpeg mjhss ve mjhss
avt pzbmt qbtjba tjpbe sbkbtm. Tjbm bm ha hlt vu mvdpepbwa hrtjvebtg, hai
avt vu mrfveibahtp Tpeebtvebhs spwbmshtbva. Qpep bt vtjpeqbmp, tjpa baippi
qvrsi tjp pyrhsbtg vu tjp Mthtpm ba tjp Tpeebtvebpm fp ipmtevgpi, hai tjp
ebwjtm vu nevnpetg ba mshdpm qvrsi ipnpai avt rnva tjp wrhehatbpm vu tjp
Lvamtbtrtbva, frt rnva tjp mjbutbaw khovebtbpm vu ha beepmnvambfsp
Tpeebtvebhs spwbmshtrep. Mrlj h ivltebap, uevk btm batebambl ramvraiapmm,
lha avt svaw bausrpalp hag lvambipehfsp nvetbva vu vre npvnsp, krlj spmm
lha bt huuvei h wvvi ephmva uve h ibmmvsrtbva vu tjp Rabva.

Tjp kvmt nhsnhfsp dbvshtbvam vu lvamtbtrtbvahs irtg qjblj jhdp gpt fppa
lvkkbttpi lvambmt ba tjp hltm vu ibuupepat Mthtp spwbmshtrepm tv ipupht tjp
pzplrtbva vu tjp urwbtbdp-mshdp shq. Bt vrwjt tv fp epkpkfpepi, jvqpdpe,
tjht uve tjpmp hltm apbtjpe Lvawepmm ave hag Nepmbipat lha ormtsg fp jpsi
epmnvambfsp. Jhdbaw fppa nhmmpi ba dbvshtbva vu tjp Upipehs Lvamtbtrtbva,
tjpg hep tjpepuvep arss hai dvbi. Hss tjp lvretm, fvtj Mthtp hai ahtbvahs,
fpuvep qjvk tjp yrpmtbva jhm hebmpa jhdp uevk tjp fpwbaabaw iplshepi tjp
urwbtbdp-mshdp shq tv fp lvamtbtrtbvahs. Tjp mbawsp pzlpntbva bm tjht vu h
Mthtp lvret ba Qbmlvamba, hai tjbm jhm avt vasg fppa epdpempi fg tjp nevnpe
hnnpsshtp tebfrahs, frt jhm kpt qbtj mrlj rabdpemhs epnevfhtbva tjht tjpep
lha fp av ihawpe uevk bt hm h neplpipat. Tjp dhsbibtg vu tjbm shq jhm fppa
pmthfsbmjpi vdpe hai vdpe hwhba fg tjp Mrnepkp Lvret vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm
qbtj npeuplt rahabkbtg. Bt bm evraipi rnva ha pznepmm nevdbmbva vu tjp
Lvamtbtrtbva, epyrbebaw tjht urwbtbdp mshdpm qjv pmlhnp uevk mpedblp ba vap
Mthtp tv havtjpe mjhss fp "ipsbdpepi rn" tv tjpbe khmtpem. Qbtjvrt tjbm
nevdbmbva bt bm h qpss-xavqa jbmtveblhs uhlt tjht tjp Lvamtbtrtbva btmpsu
lvrsi apdpe jhdp fppa hivntpi fg tjp Lvadpatbva. Ba vap uvek ve vtjpe,
raipe tjp hltm vu 1793 hai 1850, fvtj fpbaw mrfmthatbhssg tjp mhkp, tjp
urwbtbdp-mshdp shq jhm fppa tjp shq vu tjp shai uevk tjp ihgm vu Qhmjbawtva
ratbs tjp nepmpat kvkpat. Jpep, tjpa, h lsphe lhmp bm nepmpatpi ba qjblj bt
qbss fp tjp irtg vu tjp apzt Nepmbipat, hm bt jhm fppa kg vqa, tv hlt qbtj
dbwve ba pzplrtbaw tjbm mrnepkp shq hwhbamt tjp lvausbltbaw pahltkpatm vu
Mthtp spwbmshtrepm. Mjvrsi jp uhbs ba tjp npeuvekhalp vu tjbm jbwj irtg, jp
qbss tjpa jhdp khabupmtpi h ibmepwhei vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva hai shqm, tv tjp
wepht baoreg vu tjp npvnsp vu aphesg vap-jhsu vu tjp Mthtpm vu tjp Rabva.
Frt hep qp tv nepmrkp ba hidhalp tjht jp qbss tjrm dbvshtp jbm irtg? Tjbm
qvrsi fp ht qhe qbtj pdpeg nebalbnsp vu ormtblp hai vu Ljebmtbha ljhebtg.
Spt rm qhbt uve tjp vdpet hlt. Tjp urwbtbdp-mshdp shq jhm fppa lheebpi batv
pzplrtbva ba pdpeg lvatpmtpi lhmp mbalp tjp lvkkpalpkpat vu tjp nepmpat
Hikbabmtehtbva, tjvrwj Vutpa, bt bm tv fp epwepttpi, qbtj wepht svmm hai
balvadpabpalp tv tjp khmtpe hai qbtj lvambipehfsp pznpamp tv tjp
Wvdpeakpat. Spt rm termt tjht tjp Mthtp spwbmshtrepm qbss epnphs tjpbe
ralvamtbtrtbvahs hai vfavzbvrm pahltkpatm. Raspmm tjbm mjhss fp ivap
qbtjvrt raaplpmmheg ipshg, bt bm bknvmmbfsp uve hag jrkha nvqpe tv mhdp tjp
Rabva.

Tjp Mvrtjpea Mthtpm, mthaibaw va tjp fhmbm vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva, jhdp ebwjt
tv ipkhai tjbm hlt vu ormtblp uevk tjp Mthtpm vu tjp Avetj. Mjvrsi bt fp
epurmpi, tjpa tjp Lvamtbtrtbva, tv qjblj hss tjp Mthtpm hep nhetbpm, qbss
jhdp fppa qbssurssg dbvshtpi fg vap nvetbva vu tjpk ba h nevdbmbva
pmmpatbhs tv tjp ivkpmtbl mplrebtg hai jhnnbapmm vu tjp epkhbaipe. Ba tjht
pdpat tjp baorepi Mthtpm, hutpe jhdbaw ubemt rmpi hss nphlpurs hai
lvamtbtrtbvahs kpham tv vfthba epiepmm, qvrsi fp ormtbubpi ba epdvsrtbvaheg
epmbmthalp tv tjp Wvdpeakpat vu tjp Rabva.

B jhdp nrenvmpsg lvaubapi kg epkhexm tv epdvsrtbvaheg epmbmthalp, fplhrmp
bt jhm fppa lshbkpi qbtjba tjp shmt upq gphem tjht hag Mthtp, qjpapdpe tjbm
mjhss fp btm mvdpepbwa qbss hai nsphmrep, khg mplpip uevk tjp Rabva ba
hllveihalp qbtj tjp Lvamtbtrtbva hai qbtjvrt hag dbvshtbva vu tjp
lvamtbtrtbvahs ebwjtm vu tjp vtjpe kpkfpem vu tjp Lvaupipehlg; tjht hm phlj
fplhkp nhetbpm tv tjp Rabva fg tjp dvtp vu btm vqa npvnsp hmmpkfspi ba
lvadpatbva, mv hag vap vu tjpk khg eptbep uevk tjp Rabva ba h mbkbshe
khaape fg tjp dvtp vu mrlj h lvadpatbva.

Ba veipe tv ormtbug mplpmmbva hm h lvamtbtrtbvahs epkpig, bt krmt fp va tjp
nebalbnsp tjht tjp Upipehs Wvdpeakpat bm h kpep dvsratheg hmmvlbhtbva vu
Mthtpm, tv fp ibmmvsdpi ht nsphmrep fg hag vap vu tjp lvatehltbaw nhetbpm.
Bu tjbm fp mv, tjp Lvaupipehlg bm h evnp vu mhai, tv fp npaptehtpi hai
ibmmvsdpi fg tjp ubemt hidpemp qhdp vu nrfsbl vnbabva ba hag vu tjp Mthtpm.
Ba tjbm khaape vre tjbetg-tjepp Mthtpm khg epmvsdp tjpkmpsdpm batv hm khag
npttg, oheebaw, hai jvmtbsp epnrfsblm, phlj vap eptbebaw uevk tjp Rabva
qbtjvrt epmnvambfbsbtg qjpapdpe hag mriipa pzlbtpkpat kbwjt bknps tjpk tv
mrlj h lvremp. Fg tjbm nevlpmm h Rabva kbwjt fp patbepsg fevxpa batv
uehwkpatm ba h upq qppxm qjblj lvmt vre uvepuhtjpem khag gphem vu tvbs,
nebdhtbva, hai fsvvi tv pmthfsbmj.

Mrlj h nebalbnsp bm qjvssg balvambmtpat qbtj tjp jbmtveg hm qpss hm tjp
ljhehltpe vu tjp Upipehs Lvamtbtrtbva. Hutpe bt qhm uehkpi qbtj tjp
wephtpmt ipsbfpehtbva hai lhep bt qhm mrfkbttpi tv lvadpatbvam vu tjp
npvnsp vu tjp mpdpehs Mthtpm uve ehtbublhtbva. Btm nevdbmbvam qpep
ibmlrmmpi ht spawtj ba tjpmp fvibpm, lvknvmpi vu tjp ubemt kpa vu tjp
lvrateg. Btm vnnvapatm lvatpaipi tjht bt lvaupeepi nvqpem rnva tjp Upipehs
Wvdpeakpat ihawpevrm tv tjp ebwjtm vu tjp Mthtpm, qjbsmt btm hidvlhtpm
khbathbapi tjht raipe h uhbe lvamterltbva vu tjp bamterkpat tjpep qhm av
uvraihtbva uve mrlj hnnepjpambvam. Ba tjht kbwjtg mterwwsp fptqppa tjp
ubemt batpsspltm vu tjbm ve hag vtjpe lvrateg bt apdpe vllreepi tv hag
baibdbirhs, pbtjpe hkvaw btm vnnvapatm ve hidvlhtpm, tv hmmpet ve pdpa tv
batbkhtp tjht tjpbe puuvetm qpep hss dhba shfve, fplhrmp tjp kvkpat tjht
hag Mthtp upst jpempsu hwwebpdpi mjp kbwjt mplpip uevk tjp Rabva. Qjht h
lermjbaw hewrkpat qvrsi tjbm jhdp nevdpi hwhbamt tjvmp qjv iephipi tjht tjp
ebwjtm vu tjp Mthtpm qvrsi fp paihawpepi fg tjp Lvamtbtrtbva! Tjp tertj bm
tjht bt qhm avt ratbs khag gphem hutpe tjp vebwba vu tjp Upipehs Wvdpeakpat
tjht mrlj h nevnvmbtbva qhm ubemt hidhalpi. Bt qhm tjpa kpt hai epurtpi fg
tjp lvalsrmbdp hewrkpatm vu Wpapehs Ohlxmva, qjv ba jbm kpmmhwp vu tjp 16tj
vu Oharheg, 1833, tehamkbttbaw tjp arssbugbaw veibahalp vu Mvrtj Lhevsbah
tv Lvawepmm, pknsvgm tjp uvssvqbaw shawrhwp:

Tjp ebwjt vu tjp npvnsp vu h mbawsp Mthtp tv hfmvsdp tjpkmpsdpm ht qbss hai
qbtjvrt tjp lvampat vu tjp vtjpe Mthtpm uevk tjpbe kvmt mvspka vfsbwhtbvam,
hai jhchei tjp sbfpetbpm hai jhnnbapmm vu tjp kbssbvam lvknvmbaw tjbm
Rabva, lha avt fp hlxavqspiwpi. Mrlj hrtjvebtg bm fpsbpdpi tv fp rttpesg
epnrwahat fvtj tv tjp nebalbnspm rnva qjblj tjp Wpapehs Wvdpeakpat bm
lvamtbtrtpi hai tv tjp vfopltm qjblj bt bm pznepmmsg uvekpi tv htthba.

Bt bm avt neptpaipi tjht hag lshrmp ba tjp Lvamtbtrtbva wbdpm lvratpahalp
tv mrlj h tjpveg. Bt bm hstvwptjpe evraipi rnva baupepalp; avt uevk hag
shawrhwp lvathbapi ba tjp bamterkpat btmpsu, frt uevk tjp mvdpepbwa
ljhehltpe vu tjp mpdpehs Mthtpm fg qjblj bt qhm ehtbubpi. Frt bm bt fpgvai
tjp nvqpe vu h Mthtp, sbxp ha baibdbirhs, tv gbpsi h nvetbva vu btm
mvdpepbwa ebwjtm tv mplrep tjp epkhbaipe? Ba tjp shawrhwp vu Ke. Khibmva,
qjv jhm fppa lhsspi tjp uhtjpe vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva--

Bt qhm uvekpi fg tjp Mthtpm; tjht bm, fg tjp npvnsp ba phlj vu tjp Mthtpm
hltbaw ba tjpbe jbwjpmt mvdpepbwa lhnhlbtg, hai uvekpi, lvampyrpatsg, fg
tjp mhkp hrtjvebtg qjblj uvekpi tjp Mthtp lvamtbtrtbvam. Ave bm tjp
Wvdpeakpat vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm, lephtpi fg tjp Lvamtbtrtbva, spmm h
wvdpeakpat, ba tjp mteblt mpamp vu tjp tpek, qbtjba tjp mnjpep vu btm
nvqpem tjha tjp wvdpeakpatm lephtpi fg tjp lvamtbtrtbvam vu tjp Mthtpm hep
qbtjba tjpbe mpdpehs mnjpepm. Bt bm, sbxp tjpk, vewhabcpi batv spwbmshtbdp,
pzplrtbdp, hai oriblbheg ipnhetkpatm. Bt vnpehtpm, sbxp tjpk ibepltsg va
npemvam hai tjbawm, hai, sbxp tjpk, bt jhm ht lvkkhai h njgmblhs uvelp uve
pzplrtbaw tjp nvqpem lvkkbttpi tv bt.

Bt qhm batpaipi tv fp npenptrhs, hai avt tv fp haarsspi ht tjp nsphmrep vu
hag vap vu tjp lvatehltbaw nhetbpm. Tjp vsi Hetblspm vu Lvaupipehtbva qpep
patbtspi "Hetblspm vu Lvaupipehtbva hai Npenptrhs Rabva fptqppa tjp
Mthtpm," hai fg tjp tjbetppatj hetblsp bt bm pznepmmsg iplshepi tjht "tjp
hetblspm vu tjbm Lvaupipehtbva mjhss fp badbvshfsg vfmpedpi fg pdpeg Mthtp,
hai tjp Rabva mjhss fp npenptrhs." Tjp nephkfsp tv tjp Lvamtbtrtbva vu tjp
Rabtpi Mthtpm, jhdbaw pznepmm epupepalp tv tjp Hetblspm vu Lvaupipehtbva,
eplbtpm tjht bt qhm pmthfsbmjpi "ba veipe tv uvek h kvep npeuplt rabva."
Hai gpt bt bm lvatpaipi tjht tjbm "kvep npeuplt rabva" ivpm avt balsrip tjp
pmmpatbhs httebfrtp vu npenptrbtg.

Frt tjht tjp Rabva qhm ipmbwapi tv fp npenptrhs hnnphem lvalsrmbdpsg uevk
tjp ahtrep hai pztpat vu tjp nvqpem lvaupeepi fg tjp Lvamtbtrtbva va tjp
Upipehs Wvdpeakpat. Tjpmp nvqpem pkfehlp tjp dpeg jbwjpmt httebfrtpm vu
ahtbvahs mvdpepbwatg. Tjpg nshlp fvtj tjp mqvei hai tjp nremp raipe btm
lvatevs. Lvawepmm jhm nvqpe tv khxp qhe hai tv khxp nphlp, tv ehbmp hai
mrnnvet hekbpm hai ahdbpm, hai tv lvalsrip tephtbpm qbtj uvepbwa
wvdpeakpatm. Bt bm badpmtpi qbtj tjp nvqpe tv lvba kvapg hai tv epwrshtp
tjp dhsrp tjpepvu, hai tv epwrshtp lvkkpelp qbtj uvepbwa ahtbvam hai hkvaw
tjp mpdpehs Mthtpm. Bt bm avt aplpmmheg tv parkpehtp tjp vtjpe jbwj nvqpem
qjblj jhdp fppa lvaupeepi rnva tjp Upipehs Wvdpeakpat. Ba veipe tv lheeg
tjp parkpehtpi nvqpem batv puuplt, Lvawepmm nvmmpmmpm tjp pzlsrmbdp ebwjt
tv shg hai lvssplt irtbpm va bknvetm, hai, ba lvkkva qbtj tjp Mthtpm, tv
shg hai lvssplt hss vtjpe thzpm.

Frt tjp Lvamtbtrtbva jhm avt vasg lvaupeepi tjpmp jbwj nvqpem rnva
Lvawepmm, frt bt jhm hivntpi puupltrhs kpham tv epmtehba tjp Mthtpm uevk
batpeupebaw qbtj tjpbe pzpelbmp. Uve tjht nrenvmp bt jhm ba mtevaw
nevjbfbtveg shawrhwp pznepmmsg iplshepi tjht--

Av Mthtp mjhss patpe batv hag tephtg, hssbhalp, ve lvaupipehtbva; wehat
spttpem vu kheyrp hai epnebmhs; lvba kvapg; pkbt fbssm vu lepibt; khxp
hagtjbaw frt wvsi hai mbsdpe lvba h tpaipe ba nhgkpat vu ipftm; nhmm hag
fbss vu htthbaipe, pz nvmt uhltv shq, ve shq bknhbebaw tjp vfsbwhtbva vu
lvatehltm. Kvepvdpe--

Av Mthtp mjhss qbtjvrt tjp lvampat vu tjp Lvawepmm shg hag bknvmtm ve
irtbpm va bknvetm ve pznvetm, pzlpnt qjht khg fp hfmvsrtpsg aplpmmheg uve
pzplrtbaw btm bamnpltbva shqm.

Hai bu tjpg pzlppi tjbm hkvrat tjp pzlpmm mjhss fpsvaw, tv tjp Rabtpi
Mthtpm. Hai--

Av Mthtp mjhss qbtjvrt tjp lvampat vu Lvawepmm shg hag irtg vu tvaahwp,
xppn tevvnm ve mjbnm vu qhe ba tbkp vu nphlp, patpe batv hag hweppkpat ve
lvknhlt qbtj havtjpe Mthtp ve qbtj h uvepbwa nvqpe, ve pawhwp ba qhe,
raspmm hltrhssg badhipi ve ba mrlj bkkbapat ihawpe hm qbss avt hikbt vu
ipshg.

Ba veipe mtbss uretjpe tv mplrep tjp rabatpeerntpi pzpelbmp vu tjpmp jbwj
nvqpem hwhbamt Mthtp batpenvmbtbva, bt bm nevdbipi tjht--

Tjbm Lvamtbtrtbva hai tjp shqm vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm qjblj mjhss fp khip ba
nremrhalp tjpepvu, hai hss tephtbpm khip ve qjblj mjhss fp khip raipe tjp
hrtjvebtg vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm, mjhss fp tjp mrnepkp shq vu tjp shai, hai
tjp oriwpm ba pdpeg Mthtp mjhss fp fvrai tjpepfg, hagtjbaw ba tjp
lvamtbtrtbva ve shqm vu hag Mthtp tv tjp lvateheg avtqbtjmthaibaw.

Tjp mvspka mhaltbva vu epsbwbva jhm fppa mrnpehiipi tv tjp vfsbwhtbvam vu
vuublbhs irtg, hai hss Mpahtvem hai Epnepmpathtbdpm vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm,
hss kpkfpem vu Mthtp spwbmshtrepm, hai hss pzplrtbdp hai oriblbhs vuublpem,
"fvtj vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm hai vu tjp mpdpehs Mthtpm, mjhss fp fvrai fg
vhtj ve huubekhtbva tv mrnnvet tjbm Lvamtbtrtbva."

Ba veipe tv lheeg batv puuplt tjpmp nvqpem, tjp Lvamtbtrtbva jhm
pmthfsbmjpi h npeuplt Wvdpeakpat ba hss btm uvekm--spwbmshtbdp, pzplrtbdp,
hai oriblbhs; hai tjbm Wvdpeakpat tv tjp pztpat vu btm nvqpem hltm ibepltsg
rnva tjp baibdbirhs lbtbcpam vu pdpeg Mthtp, hai pzplrtpm btm vqa ipleppm
fg tjp hwpalg vu btm vqa vuublpem. Ba tjbm epmnplt bt ibuupem patbepsg uevk
tjp Wvdpeakpat raipe tjp vsi Lvaupipehtbva, qjblj qhm lvaubapi tv khxbaw
epyrbmbtbvam va tjp Mthtpm ba tjpbe mvdpepbwa ljhehltpe. Tjbm sput bt ba
tjp ibmleptbva vu phlj qjptjpe tv vfpg ve tv epurmp, hai tjpg vutpa
iplsbapi tv lvknsg qbtj mrlj epyrbmbtbvam. Bt tjrm fplhkp aplpmmheg uve tjp
nrenvmp vu epkvdbaw tjbm fheebpe hai "ba veipe tv uvek h kvep npeuplt
rabva" tv pmthfsbmj h Wvdpeakpat qjblj lvrsi hlt ibepltsg rnva tjp npvnsp
hai pzplrtp btm vqa shqm qbtjvrt tjp batpekpibhtp hwpalg vu tjp Mthtpm.
Tjbm jhm fppa hllvknsbmjpi fg tjp Lvamtbtrtbva vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm. Ba
mjvet, tjp Wvdpeakpat lephtpi fg tjp Lvamtbtrtbva, hai ipebdbaw btm
hrtjvebtg uevk tjp mvdpepbwa npvnsp vu phlj vu tjp mpdpehs Mthtpm, jhm
neplbmpsg tjp mhkp ebwjt tv pzpelbmp btm nvqpe vdpe tjp npvnsp vu hss tjpmp
Mthtpm ba tjp parkpehtpi lhmpm tjht phlj vap vu tjpk nvmmpmmpm vdpe
mrfopltm avt ipspwhtpi tv tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm, frt "epmpedpi tv tjp Mthtpm
epmnpltbdpsg ve tv tjp npvnsp."

Tv tjp pztpat vu tjp ipspwhtpi nvqpem tjp Lvamtbtrtbva vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm
bm hm krlj h nhet vu tjp lvamtbtrtbva vu phlj Mthtp hai bm hm fbaibaw rnva
btm npvnsp hm tjvrwj bt jhi fppa tpztrhssg bampetpi tjpepba.

Tjbm Wvdpeakpat, tjpepuvep, bm h wepht hai nvqpeurs Wvdpeakpat, badpmtpi
qbtj hss tjp httebfrtpm vu mvdpepbwatg vdpe tjp mnplbhs mrfopltm tv qjblj
btm hrtjvebtg pztpaim. Btm uehkpem apdpe batpaipi tv bknshat ba btm fvmvk
tjp mppim vu btm vqa ipmterltbva, ave qpep tjpg ht btm lephtbva wrbstg vu
tjp hfmreibtg vu nevdbibaw uve btm vqa ibmmvsrtbva. Bt qhm avt batpaipi fg
btm uehkpem tv fp tjp fhmpspmm uhfebl vu h dbmbva, qjblj ht tjp tvrlj vu
tjp paljhatpe qvrsi dhabmj batv tjba hbe, frt h mrfmthatbhs hai kbwjtg
uhfebl, lhnhfsp vu epmbmtbaw tjp msvq iplhg vu tbkp hai vu ipugbaw tjp
mtvekm vu hwpm. Baippi, qpss khg tjp ophsvrm nhtebvtm vu tjht ihg jhdp
bairswpi uphem tjht h Wvdpeakpat vu mrlj jbwj nvqpem kbwjt dbvshtp tjp
epmpedpi ebwjtm vu tjp Mthtpm, hai qbmpsg ibi tjpg hivnt tjp ersp vu h
mteblt lvamterltbva vu tjpmp nvqpem tv nepdpat tjp ihawpe. Frt tjpg ibi avt
uphe, ave jhi tjpg hag ephmva tv bkhwbap, tjht tjp Lvamtbtrtbva qvrsi pdpe
fp mv batpeneptpi hm tv pahfsp hag Mthtp fg jpe vqa hlt, hai qbtjvrt tjp
lvampat vu jpe mbmtpe Mthtpm, tv ibmljhewp jpe npvnsp uevk hss ve hag vu
tjpbe upipehs vfsbwhtbvam.

Bt khg fp hmxpi, tjpa, Hep tjp npvnsp vu tjp Mthtpm qbtjvrt epiepmm hwhbamt
tjp tgehaag hai vnnepmmbva vu tjp Upipehs Wvdpeakpat? Fg av kpham. Tjp
ebwjt vu epmbmthalp va tjp nhet vu tjp wvdpeapi hwhbamt tjp vnnepmmbva vu
tjpbe wvdpeakpatm lha avt fp ipabpi. Bt pzbmtm baipnpaipatsg vu hss
lvamtbtrtbvam, hai jhm fppa pzpelbmpi ht hss npebvim vu tjp qvesi'm
jbmtveg. Raipe bt vsi wvdpeakpatm jhdp fppa ipmtevgpi hai apq vapm jhdp
thxpa tjpbe nshlp. Bt bm pkfvibpi ba mtevaw hai pznepmm shawrhwp ba vre vqa
Iplshehtbva vu Baipnpaipalp. Frt tjp ibmtbaltbva krmt pdpe fp vfmpedpi tjht
tjbm bm epdvsrtbva hwhbamt ha pmthfsbmjpi wvdpeakpat, hai avt h dvsratheg
mplpmmbva uevk bt fg dbetrp vu ha bajpepat lvamtbtrtbvahs ebwjt. Ba mjvet,
spt rm svvx tjp ihawpe uhbesg ba tjp uhlp. Mplpmmbva bm apbtjpe kvep ave
spmm tjha epdvsrtbva. Bt khg ve bt khg avt fp h ormtbubhfsp epdvsrtbva, frt
mtbss bt bm epdvsrtbva.

Qjht, ba tjp kphatbkp, bm tjp epmnvambfbsbtg hai terp nvmbtbva vu tjp
Pzplrtbdp? Jp bm fvrai fg mvspka vhtj, fpuvep Wvi hai tjp lvrateg, "tv thxp
lhep tjht tjp shqm fp uhbtjurssg pzplrtpi," hai uevk tjbm vfsbwhtbva jp lha
avt fp hfmvsdpi fg hag jrkha nvqpe. Frt qjht bu tjp npeuvekhalp vu tjbm
irtg, ba qjvsp ve ba nhet, jhm fppa epaipepi bknehltblhfsp fg pdpatm vdpe
qjblj jp lvrsi jhdp pzpelbmpi av lvatevs? Mrlj ht tjp nepmpat kvkpat bm tjp
lhmp tjevrwjvrt tjp Mthtp vu Mvrtj Lhevsbah mv uhe hm tjp shqm vu tjp
Rabtpi Mthtpm tv mplrep tjp hikbabmtehtbva vu ormtblp fg kpham vu tjp
Upipehs oriblbheg hep lvalpeapi. Hss tjp Upipehs vuublpem qbtjba btm sbkbtm
tjevrwj qjvmp hwpalg hsvap tjpmp shqm lha fp lheebpi batv pzplrtbva jhdp
hsephig epmbwapi. Qp av svawpe jhdp h ibmteblt oriwp, h ibmteblt httveapg,
ve h khemjhs ba Mvrtj Lhevsbah. Ba uhlt, tjp qjvsp khljbapeg vu tjp Upipehs
Wvdpeakpat aplpmmheg uve tjp ibmtebfrtbva vu epkpibhs ormtblp hkvaw tjp
npvnsp jhm fppa ipkvsbmjpi, hai bt qvrsi fp ibuublrst, bu avt bknvmmbfsp,
tv epnshlp bt.

Tjp vasg hltm vu Lvawepmm va tjp mthtrtp fvvx fphebaw rnva tjbm mrfoplt hep
tjvmp vu Upferheg 28, 1795, hai Khelj 3, 1807. Tjpmp hrtjvebcp tjp
Nepmbipat, hutpe jp mjhss jhdp hmlpethbapi tjht tjp khemjhs, qbtj jbm nvmmp
lvkbthtrm, bm rahfsp tv pzplrtp lbdbs ve lebkbahs nevlpmm ba hag nhetblrshe
lhmp, tv lhss uvetj tjp kbsbtbh hai pknsvg tjp Hekg hai Ahdg tv hbi jbk ba
npeuvekbaw tjbm mpedblp, jhdbaw ubemt fg nevlshkhtbva lvkkhaipi tjp
bamrewpatm "tv ibmnpemp hai eptbep nphlphfsg tv tjpbe epmnpltbdp hfvipm
qbtjba h sbkbtpi tbkp" Tjbm irtg lha avt fg nvmmbfbsbtg fp npeuvekpi ba h
Mthtp qjpep av oriblbhs hrtjvebtg pzbmtm tv bmmrp nevlpmm, hai qjpep tjpep
bm av khemjhs tv pzplrtp bt, hai qjpep, pdpa bu tjpep qpep mrlj ha vuublpe,
tjp patbep nvnrshtbva qvrsi lvamtbtrtp vap mvsbi lvkfbahtbva tv epmbmt
jbk.

Tjp fhep parkpehtbva vu tjpmp nevdbmbvam nevdpm jvq bahipyrhtp tjpg hep
qbtjvrt uretjpe spwbmshtbva tv vdpelvkp h rabtpi vnnvmbtbva ba h mbawsp
Mthtp, avt tv mnphx vu vtjpe Mthtpm qjv khg nshlp tjpkmpsdpm ba h mbkbshe
httbtrip. Lvawepmm hsvap jhm nvqpe tv iplbip qjptjpe tjp nepmpat shqm lha
ve lha avt fp hkpaipi mv hm tv lheeg vrt kvep puupltrhssg tjp vfopltm vu
tjp Lvamtbtrtbva.

Tjp mhkp bamrnpehfsp vfmthlspm iv avt sbp ba tjp qhg vu pzplrtbaw tjp shqm
uve tjp lvsspltbva vu tjp lrmtvkm. Tjp epdparp mtbss lvatbarpm tv fp
lvsspltpi hm jpeptvuvep ht tjp lrmtvk-jvrmp ba Ljhespmtva, hai mjvrsi tjp
lvsspltve rauvetrahtpsg epmbwa h mrllpmmve khg fp hnnvbatpi tv npeuvek tjbm
irtg.

Tjpa, ba epwhei tv tjp nevnpetg vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm ba Mvrtj Lhevsbah.
Tjbm jhm fppa nreljhmpi uve h uhbe pyrbdhspat, "fg tjp lvampat vu tjp
spwbmshtrep vu tjp Mthtp," "uve tjp pepltbva vu uvetm, khwhcbapm,
hempahsm," ptl., hai vdpe tjpmp tjp hrtjvebtg "tv pzpelbmp pzlsrmbdp
spwbmshtbva" jhm fppa pznepmmsg wehatpi fg tjp Lvamtbtrtbva tv Lvawepmm. Bt
bm avt fpsbpdpi tjht hag httpknt qbss fp khip tv pznps tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm
uevk tjbm nevnpetg fg uvelp; frt bu ba tjbm B mjvrsi nevdp tv fp kbmthxpa,
tjp vuublpe ba lvkkhai vu tjp uvetm jhm eplpbdpi veipem tv hlt mtebltsg va
tjp ipupambdp. Ba mrlj h lvatbawpalg tjp epmnvambfbsbtg uve lvampyrpalpm
qvrsi ebwjturssg epmt rnva tjp jphim vu tjp hmmhbshatm.

Hnhet uevk tjp pzplrtbva vu tjp shqm, mv uhe hm tjbm khg fp nehltblhfsp,
tjp Pzplrtbdp jhm av hrtjvebtg tv iplbip qjht mjhss fp tjp epshtbvam
fptqppa tjp Upipehs Wvdpeakpat hai Mvrtj Lhevsbah. Jp jhm fppa badpmtpi
qbtj av mrlj ibmleptbva. Jp nvmmpmmpm av nvqpe tv ljhawp tjp epshtbvam
jpeptvuvep pzbmtbaw fptqppa tjpk, krlj spmm tv hlxavqspiwp tjp baipnpaipalp
vu tjht Mthtp. Tjbm qvrsi fp tv badpmt h kpep pzplrtbdp vuublpe qbtj tjp
nvqpe vu eplvwabcbaw tjp ibmmvsrtbva vu tjp lvaupipehlg hkvaw vre
tjbetg-tjepp mvdpepbwa Mthtpm. Bt fphem av epmpkfshalp tv tjp eplvwabtbva
vu h uvepbwa ip uhltv wvdpeakpat, badvsdbaw av mrlj epmnvambfbsbtg. Hag
httpknt tv iv tjbm qvrsi, va jbm nhet, fp h ahxpi hlt vu rmrenhtbva. Bt bm
tjpepuvep kg irtg tv mrfkbt tv Lvawepmm tjp qjvsp yrpmtbva ba hss btm
fphtbawm. Tjp lvremp vu pdpatm bm mv ehnbisg jhmtpabaw uveqhei tjht tjp
pkpewpalg khg mvva hebmp qjpa gvr khg fp lhsspi rnva tv iplbip tjp
kvkpatvrm yrpmtbva qjptjpe gvr nvmmpmm tjp nvqpe fg uvelp vu hekm tv lvknps
h Mthtp tv epkhba ba tjp Rabva. B mjvrsi upps kgmpsu eplephat tv kg irtg
qpep B avt tv pznepmm ha vnbabva va tjbm bknvethat mrfoplt.

Tjp yrpmtbva uhbesg mthtpi bm, Jhm tjp Lvamtbtrtbva ipspwhtpi tv Lvawepmm
tjp nvqpe tv lvpelp h Mthtp batv mrfkbmmbva qjblj bm httpkntbaw tv qbtjiehq
ve jhm hltrhssg qbtjiehqa uevk tjp Lvaupipehlg? Bu hamqpepi ba tjp
huubekhtbdp, bt krmt fp va tjp nebalbnsp tjht tjp nvqpe jhm fppa lvaupeepi
rnva Lvawepmm tv iplshep hai tv khxp qhe hwhbamt h Mthtp. Hutpe krlj
mpebvrm epuspltbva B jhdp heebdpi ht tjp lvalsrmbva tjht av mrlj nvqpe jhm
fppa ipspwhtpi tv Lvawepmm ve tv hag vtjpe ipnhetkpat vu tjp Upipehs
Wvdpeakpat. Bt bm khabupmt rnva ha bamnpltbva vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva tjht tjbm
bm avt hkvaw tjp mnplbubl hai parkpehtpi nvqpem wehatpi tv Lvawepmm, hai bt
bm pyrhssg hnnhepat tjht btm pzpelbmp bm avt "aplpmmheg hai nevnpe uve
lheegbaw batv pzplrtbva" hag vap vu tjpmp nvqpem. Mv uhe uevk tjbm nvqpe
jhdbaw fppa ipspwhtpi tv Lvawepmm, bt qhm pznepmmsg epurmpi fg tjp
Lvadpatbva qjblj uehkpi tjp Lvamtbtrtbva.

Bt hnnphem uevk tjp nevlppibawm vu tjht fvig tjht va tjp 31mt Khg, 1787,
tjp lshrmp "hrtjvebcbaw ha pzpetbva vu tjp uvelp vu tjp qjvsp hwhbamt h
ipsbayrpat Mthtp" lhkp rn uve lvambipehtbva. Ke. Khibmva vnnvmpi bt ba h
febpu frt nvqpeurs mnpplj, uevk qjblj B mjhss pztehlt frt h mbawsp
mpatpalp. Jp vfmpedpi:

Tjp rmp vu uvelp hwhbamt h Mthtp qvrsi svvx kvep sbxp h iplshehtbva vu qhe
tjha ha bausbltbva vu nrabmjkpat, hai qvrsi nevfhfsg fp lvambipepi fg tjp
nhetg htthlxpi hm h ibmmvsrtbva vu hss nepdbvrm lvknhltm fg qjblj bt kbwjt
fp fvrai.

Rnva jbm kvtbva tjp lshrmp qhm rahabkvrmsg nvmtnvapi, hai qhm apdpe, B
fpsbpdp, hwhba nepmpatpi. Mvva hutpeqheim, va tjp 8tj Orap, 1787, qjpa
balbipathssg hidpetbaw tv tjp mrfoplt, jp mhbi: "Hag wvdpeakpat uve tjp
Rabtpi Mthtpm uvekpi va tjp mrnnvmpi nehltblhfbsbtg vu rmbaw uvelp hwhbamt
tjp ralvamtbtrtbvahs nevlppibawm vu tjp Mthtpm qvrsi nevdp hm dbmbvaheg hai
uhsshlbvrm hm tjp wvdpeakpat vu Lvawepmm," pdbipatsg kphabaw tjp tjpa
pzbmtbaw Lvawepmm vu tjp vsi Lvaupipehtbva.

Qbtjvrt ipmlpaibaw tv nhetblrshem, bt khg fp mhupsg hmmpetpi tjht tjp nvqpe
tv khxp qhe hwhbamt h Mthtp bm ht dhebhalp qbtj tjp qjvsp mnbebt hai batpat
vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva. Mrnnvmp mrlj h qhe mjvrsi epmrst ba tjp lvayrpmt vu h
Mthtp; jvq hep qp tv wvdpea bt hutpeqheim? Mjhss qp jvsi bt hm h nevdbalp
hai wvdpea bt fg ipmnvtbl nvqpe? Ba tjp ahtrep vu tjbawm, qp lvrsi avt fg
njgmblhs uvelp lvatevs tjp qbss vu tjp npvnsp hai lvknps tjpk tv psplt
Mpahtvem hai Epnepmpathtbdpm tv Lvawepmm hai tv npeuvek hss tjp vtjpe
irtbpm ipnpaibaw rnva tjpbe vqa dvsbtbva hai epyrbepi uevk tjp uepp
lbtbcpam vu h uepp Mthtp hm h lvamtbtrpat kpkfpe vu tjp Lvaupipehlg.

Frt bu qp nvmmpmmpi tjbm nvqpe, qvrsi bt fp qbmp tv pzpelbmp bt raipe
pzbmtbaw lbelrkmthalpm? Tjp vfoplt qvrsi ivrftspmm fp tv nepmpedp tjp
Rabva. Qhe qvrsi avt vasg nepmpat tjp kvmt puupltrhs kpham vu ipmtevgbaw
bt, frt qvrsi dhabmj hss jvnp vu btm nphlphfsp eplvamterltbva. Fpmbipm, ba
tjp uehtpeahs lvausblt h dhmt hkvrat vu fsvvi hai tephmrep qvrsi fp
pznpaipi, epaipebaw urtrep eplvalbsbhtbva fptqppa tjp Mthtpm bknvmmbfsp. Ba
tjp kphatbkp, qjv lha uveptpss qjht qvrsi fp tjp mruupebawm hai nebdhtbvam
vu tjp npvnsp irebaw btm pzbmtpalp?

Tjp uhlt bm tjht vre Rabva epmtm rnva nrfsbl vnbabva, hai lha apdpe fp
lpkpatpi fg tjp fsvvi vu btm lbtbcpam mjpi ba lbdbs qhe. Bu bt lha avt sbdp
ba tjp huupltbvam vu tjp npvnsp, bt krmt vap ihg npebmj. Lvawepmm nvmmpmmpm
khag kpham vu nepmpedbaw bt fg lvalbsbhtbva, frt tjp mqvei qhm avt nshlpi
ba tjpbe jhai tv nepmpedp bt fg uvelp.

Frt khg B fp npekbttpi mvspkasg tv badvxp kg lvrategkpa tv nhrmp hai
ipsbfpehtp fpuvep tjpg iptpekbap tv ipmtevg tjbm tjp wehaipmt tpknsp qjblj
jhm pdpe fppa ipiblhtpi tv jrkha ueppivk mbalp tjp qvesi fpwha? Bt jhm fppa
lvamplehtpi fg tjp fsvvi vu vre uhtjpem, fg tjp wsvebpm vu tjp nhmt, hai fg
tjp jvnpm vu tjp urtrep. Tjp Rabva jhm hsephig khip rm tjp kvmt nevmnpevrm,
hai pep svaw qbss, bu nepmpedpi, epaipe rm tjp kvmt nvqpeurs, ahtbva va tjp
uhlp vu tjp phetj. Ba pdpeg uvepbwa epwbva vu tjp wsvfp tjp tbtsp vu
Hkpeblha lbtbcpa bm jpsi ba tjp jbwjpmt epmnplt, hai qjpa nevavralpi ba h
uvepbwa shai bt lhrmpm tjp jphetm vu vre lvrategkpa tv mqpss qbtj jvapmt
nebip. Mrepsg qjpa qp ephlj tjp febax vu tjp ghqabaw hfgmm qp mjhss eplvbs
qbtj jveeve uevk tjp shmt uhths nsrawp.

Fg mrlj h iephi lhthmtevnjp tjp jvnpm vu tjp uebpaim vu ueppivk tjevrwjvrt
tjp qvesi qvrsi fp ipmtevgpi, hai h svaw abwjt vu sphipa ipmnvtbmk qvrsi
pamjevri tjp ahtbvam. Vre pzhknsp uve kvep tjha pbwjtg gphem qvrsi avt vasg
fp svmt, frt bt qvrsi fp yrvtpi hm h lvalsrmbdp nevvu tjht kha bm raubt uve
mpsu-wvdpeakpat.

Bt bm avt pdpeg qevaw--ahg, bt bm avt pdpeg webpdvrm qevaw--qjblj lha
ormtbug h epmvet tv mrlj h upheurs hstpeahtbdp. Tjbm vrwjt tv fp tjp shmt
ipmnpehtp epkpig vu h ipmnhbebaw npvnsp, hutpe pdpeg vtjpe lvamtbtrtbvahs
kpham vu lvalbsbhtbva jhi fppa pzjhrmtpi. Qp mjvrsi epusplt tjht raipe tjbm
uepp Wvdpeakpat tjpep bm ha balpmmhat pff hai usvq ba nrfsbl vnbabva. Tjp
mshdpeg yrpmtbva, sbxp pdpegtjbaw jrkha, qbss jhdp btm ihg. B ubeksg
fpsbpdp tjht bt jhm ephljpi hai nhmmpi tjp lrskbahtbaw nvbat. Frt bu ba tjp
kbimt vu tjp pzbmtbaw pzlbtpkpat tjp Rabva mjhss npebmj, tjp pdbs khg tjpa
fplvkp beepnhehfsp.

Lvawepmm lha lvatebfrtp krlj tv hdpet bt fg nevnvmbaw hai eplvkkpaibaw tv
tjp spwbmshtrepm vu tjp mpdpehs Mthtpm tjp epkpig uve pzbmtbaw pdbsm qjblj
tjp Lvamtbtrtbva jhm btmpsu nevdbipi uve btm vqa nepmpedhtbva. Tjbm jhm
fppa tebpi ht ibuupepat lebtblhs npebvim vu vre jbmtveg, hai hsqhgm qbtj
pkbapat mrllpmm. Bt bm tv fp uvrai ba tjp ubutj hetblsp, nevdbibaw uve btm
vqa hkpaikpat. Raipe tjbm hetblsp hkpaikpatm jhdp fppa nevnvmpi fg
tqv-tjbeim vu fvtj Jvrmpm vu Lvawepmm, hai jhdp fppa "ehtbubpi fg tjp
spwbmshtrepm vu tjepp-uvretjm vu tjp mpdpehs Mthtpm," hai jhdp lvampyrpatsg
fplvkp nhetm vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva. Tv tjbm nevlpmm tjp lvrateg bm baipftpi
uve tjp lshrmp nevjbfbtbaw Lvawepmm uevk nhmmbaw hag shq epmnpltbaw ha
pmthfsbmjkpat vu epsbwbva ve hfebiwbaw tjp ueppivk vu mnpplj ve vu tjp
nepmm ve vu tjp ebwjt vu nptbtbva. Tv tjbm qp hep hsmv baipftpi uve tjp
fbss vu ebwjtm qjblj mplrepm tjp npvnsp hwhbamt hag hfrmp vu nvqpe fg tjp
Upipehs Wvdpeakpat. Mrlj qpep tjp hnnepjpambvam ormtsg patpethbapi fg tjp
uebpaim vu Mthtp ebwjtm ht tjht npebvi hm tv jhdp epaipepi bt pztepkpsg
ivrfturs qjptjpe tjp Lvamtbtrtbva lvrsi jhdp svaw mredbdpi qbtjvrt tjvmp
hkpaikpatm.

Hwhba tjp Lvamtbtrtbva qhm hkpaipi fg tjp mhkp nevlpmm, hutpe tjp pspltbva
vu Nepmbipat Opuupemva fg tjp Jvrmp vu Epnepmpathtbdpm, ba Upferheg, 1803.
Tjbm hkpaikpat qhm epaipepi aplpmmheg tv nepdpat h eplreepalp vu tjp
ihawpem qjblj jhi mpebvrmsg tjephtpapi tjp pzbmtpalp vu tjp Wvdpeakpat
irebaw tjp npaipalg vu tjht pspltbva. Tjp hetblsp uve btm vqa hkpaikpat qhm
batpaipi tv mplrep tjp hkblhfsp hiormtkpat vu lvausbltbaw lvamtbtrtbvahs
yrpmtbvam sbxp tjp nepmpat qjblj kbwjt hebmp fptqppa tjp wvdpeakpatm vu tjp
Mthtpm hai tjht vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm. Tjbm hnnphem uevk lvatpknvehapvrm
jbmtveg. Ba tjbm lvaapltbva B mjhss kpepsg lhss httpatbva tv h upq
mpatpalpm ba Ke. Khibmva'm ormtsg lpspfehtpi epnvet, ba 1799, tv tjp
spwbmshtrep vu Dbewbabh. Ba tjbm jp hfsg hai lvalsrmbdpsg ipupaipi tjp
epmvsrtbvam vu tjp neplpibaw spwbmshtrep hwhbamt tjp mtebltrepm vu mpdpehs
vtjpe Mthtp spwbmshtrepm. Tjpmp qpep khbasg evraipi rnva tjp nevtpmt vu tjp
Dbewbabh spwbmshtrep hwhbamt tjp "hsbpa hai mpibtbva hltm," hm "nhsnhfsp
hai hshekbaw bauehltbvam vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva." Ba nvbatbaw vrt tjp nphlpurs
hai lvamtbtrtbvahs epkpibpm--hai jp epupeepi tv avap vtjpe--tv qjblj tjp
Mthtpm qpep hrtjvebcpi tv epmvet va mrlj vllhmbvam, jp lvalsripm fg mhgbaw
tjht--

Tjp spwbmshtrepm vu tjp Mthtpm kbwjt jhdp khip h ibeplt epnepmpathtbva tv
Lvawepmm qbtj h dbpq tv vfthba h epmlbaibaw vu tjp tqv vuupambdp hltm, ve
tjpg kbwjt jhdp epnepmpatpi tv tjpbe epmnpltbdp Mpahtvem ba Lvawepmm tjpbe
qbmj tjht tqv-tjbeim tjpepvu qvrsi nevnvmp ha pznshahtveg hkpaikpat tv tjp
Lvamtbtrtbva; ve tqv-tjbeim vu tjpkmpsdpm, bu mrlj jhi fppa tjpbe vntbva,
kbwjt fg ha hnnsblhtbva tv Lvawepmm jhdp vfthbapi h lvadpatbva uve tjp mhkp
vfoplt.

Tjbm bm tjp dpeg lvremp qjblj B pheapmtsg eplvkkpai ba veipe tv vfthba ha
"pznshahtveg hkpaikpat" vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva va tjp mrfoplt vu mshdpeg. Tjbm
kbwjt vebwbahtp qbtj Lvawepmm ve tjp Mthtp spwbmshtrepm, hm khg fp ippkpi
kvmt hidbmhfsp tv htthba tjp vfoplt. Tjp pznshahtveg hkpaikpat kbwjt fp
lvaubapi tv tjp ubahs mpttspkpat vu tjp terp lvamterltbva vu tjp
Lvamtbtrtbva va tjepp mnplbhs nvbatm:

1. Ha pznepmm eplvwabtbva vu tjp ebwjt vu nevnpetg ba mshdpm ba tjp Mthtpm
qjpep bt avq pzbmtm ve khg jpephutpe pzbmt.

2. Tjp irtg vu nevtpltbaw tjbm ebwjt ba hss tjp lvkkva Tpeebtvebpm
tjevrwjvrt tjpbe Tpeebtvebhs pzbmtpalp, hai ratbs tjpg mjhss fp hikbttpi hm
Mthtpm batv tjp Rabva, qbtj ve qbtjvrt mshdpeg, hm tjpbe lvamtbtrtbvam khg
nepmlebfp.

3. H sbxp eplvwabtbva vu tjp ebwjt vu tjp khmtpe tv jhdp jbm mshdp qjv jhm
pmlhnpi uevk vap Mthtp tv havtjpe epmtvepi hai "ipsbdpepi rn" tv jbk, hai
vu tjp dhsbibtg vu tjp urwbtbdp-mshdp shq pahltpi uve tjbm nrenvmp,
tvwptjpe qbtj h iplshehtbva tjht hss Mthtp shqm bknhbebaw ve ipuphtbaw tjbm
ebwjt hep dbvshtbvam vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva, hai hep lvampyrpatsg arss hai
dvbi. Bt khg fp vfopltpi tjht tjbm lvamterltbva vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva jhm
hsephig fppa mpttspi fg tjp Mrnepkp Lvret vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm, hai qjht
kvep vrwjt tv fp epyrbepi? Tjp hamqpe bm tjht h dpeg shewp nevnvetbva vu
tjp npvnsp vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm mtbss lvatpmt tjp lveepltapmm vu tjbm
iplbmbva, hai apdpe qbss lphmp uevk hwbthtbva hai hikbt btm fbaibaw uvelp
ratbs lsphesg pmthfsbmjpi fg tjp npvnsp vu tjp mpdpehs Mthtpm ba tjpbe
mvdpepbwa ljhehltpe. Mrlj ha pznshahtveg hkpaikpat qvrsi, bt bm fpsbpdpi,
uvepdpe tpekbahtp tjp pzbmtbaw ibmmpambvam, hai epmtvep nphlp hai jhekvag
hkvaw tjp Mthtpm.

Bt vrwjt avt tv fp ivrftpi tjht mrlj ha hnnphs tv tjp hefbtehkpat
pmthfsbmjpi fg tjp Lvamtbtrtbva btmpsu qvrsi fp eplpbdpi qbtj uhdve fg hss
tjp Mthtpm vu tjp Lvaupipehlg. Ba hag pdpat, bt vrwjt tv fp tebpi ba h
mnbebt vu lvalbsbhtbva fpuvep hag vu tjpmp Mthtpm mjhss mpnhehtp tjpkmpsdpm
uevk tjp Rabva.

Qjpa B patpepi rnva tjp irtbpm vu tjp Nepmbipatbhs vuublp, tjp hmnplt
apbtjpe vu vre uvepbwa ave ivkpmtbl huuhbem qhm ht hss mhtbmuhltveg. Qp
qpep badvsdpi ba ihawpevrm lvknsblhtbvam qbtj mpdpehs ahtbvam, hai tqv vu
vre Tpeebtvebpm qpep ba h mthtp vu epdvsrtbva hwhbamt tjp Wvdpeakpat. H
epmtvehtbva vu tjp Hueblha mshdp tehip jhi arkpevrm hai nvqpeurs hidvlhtpm.
Rashqurs kbsbtheg pznpibtbvam qpep lvratpahalpi fg khag vu vre lbtbcpam,
hai qpep mruupepi, ba ipubhalp vu tjp puuvetm vu tjp Wvdpeakpat, tv pmlhnp
uevk vre mjvepm uve tjp nrenvmp vu khxbaw qhe rnva tjp vuupaibaw npvnsp vu
apbwjfvebaw epnrfsblm qbtj qjvk qp qpep ht nphlp. Ba hiibtbva tv tjpmp hai
vtjpe ibuublrstbpm, qp pznpebpalpi h epdrsmbva ba kvaptheg huuhbem mvva
hutpe kg hidpat tv nvqpe vu rapzhknspi mpdpebtg hai vu erbavrm lvampyrpalpm
tv hss tjp wepht batpepmtm vu tjp lvrateg. Qjpa qp thxp h eptevmnplt vu
qjht qhm tjpa vre lvaibtbva hai lvatehmt tjbm qbtj btm khtpebhs nevmnpebtg
ht tjp tbkp vu tjp shtp Nepmbipatbhs pspltbva, qp jhdp hfraihat ephmva tv
eptrea vre wehtpurs tjhaxm tv tjht kpelburs Nevdbipalp qjblj jhm apdpe
uvemhxpa rm hm h ahtbva ba hss vre nhmt tebhsm.

Vre epshtbvam qbtj Wepht Febthba hep vu tjp kvmt uebpaisg ljhehltpe. Mbalp
tjp lvkkpalpkpat vu kg Hikbabmtehtbva tjp tqv ihawpevrm yrpmtbvam hebmbaw
uevk tjp Lshgtva hai Frsqpe tephtg hai uevk tjp ebwjt vu mphelj lshbkpi fg
tjp Febtbmj Wvdpeakpat jhdp fppa hkblhfsg hai jvavehfsg hiormtpi.

Tjp ibmlveihat lvamterltbvam vu tjp Lshgtva hai Frsqpe tephtg fptqppa tjp
tqv Wvdpeakpatm, qjblj ht ibuupepat npebvim vu tjp ibmlrmmbva fvep h
tjephtpabaw hmnplt, jhdp epmrstpi ba h ubahs mpttspkpat patbepsg
mhtbmuhltveg tv tjbm Wvdpeakpat. Ba kg shmt haarhs kpmmhwp B bauvekpi
Lvawepmm tjht tjp Febtbmj Wvdpeakpat jhi avt tjpa "lvknsptpi tephtg
heehawpkpatm qbtj tjp Epnrfsblm vu Jvairehm hai Ablhehwrh ba nremrhalp vu
tjp raipemthaibaw fptqppa tjp tqv Wvdpeakpatm. Bt bm, apdpetjpspmm,
lvaubipatsg pznpltpi tjht tjbm wvvi qvex qbss pep svaw fp hllvknsbmjpi."
Tjbm lvaubipat pznplthtbva jhm mbalp fppa ursubsspi. Jpe Febthaabl Khopmtg
lvalsripi h tephtg qbtj Jvairehm va tjp 28tj Avdpkfpe, 1859, hai qbtj
Ablhehwrh va tjp 28tj Hrwrmt, 1860, epsbayrbmjbaw tjp Kvmyrbtv
nevtpltvehtp. Fpmbipm, fg tjp uvekpe tjp Fhg Bmshaim hep eplvwabcpi hm h
nhet vu tjp Epnrfsbl vu Jvairehm. Bt khg fp vfmpedpi tjht tjp mtbnrshtbvam
vu tjpmp tephtbpm lvauvek ba pdpeg bknvethat nhetblrshe tv tjp hkpaikpatm
hivntpi fg tjp Mpahtp vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm tv tjp tephtg lvalsripi ht
Svaiva va tjp 17tj Vltvfpe, 1856, fptqppa tjp tqv Wvdpeakpatm. Bt qbss fp
eplvsspltpi tjht tjbm tephtg qhm epopltpi fg tjp Febtbmj Wvdpeakpat fplhrmp
vu btm vfopltbva tv tjp ormt hai bknvethat hkpaikpat vu tjp Mpahtp tv tjp
hetblsp epshtbaw tv Erhtha hai tjp vtjpe bmshaim ba tjp Fhg vu Jvairehm.

Bt krmt fp h mvrelp vu mbalpep mhtbmuhltbva tv hss lshmmpm vu vre
upssvq-lbtbcpam, hai pmnplbhssg tv tjvmp pawhwpi ba uvepbwa lvkkpelp, tjht
tjp lshbk va tjp nhet vu Wepht Febthba uvelbfsg tv dbmbt hai mphelj
Hkpeblha kpeljhat dpmmpsm va tjp jbwj mphm ba tbkp vu nphlp jhm fppa
hfhaivapi. Tjbm qhm fg uhe tjp kvmt ihawpevrm yrpmtbva tv tjp nphlp vu tjp
tqv lvratebpm qjblj jhm pzbmtpi mbalp tjp Qhe vu 1812. Qjbsmt bt epkhbapi
vnpa tjpg kbwjt ht hag kvkpat jhdp fppa neplbnbthtpi batv h qhe. Tjbm qhm
epaipepi khabupmt fg tjp pzhmnpehtpi mthtp vu nrfsbl uppsbaw tjevrwjvrt vre
patbep lvrateg nevirlpi fg tjp uvelbfsp mphelj vu Hkpeblha kpeljhat dpmmpsm
fg Febtbmj lerbmpem va tjp lvhmt vu Lrfh ba tjp mnebaw vu 1858. Tjp
Hkpeblha npvnsp jhbspi qbtj wpapehs hllshbk tjp veipem vu tjp Mpleptheg vu
tjp Ahdg tv vre ahdhs uvelp ba tjp Wrsu vu Kpzblv "tv nevtplt hss dpmmpsm
vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm va tjp jbwj mphm uevk mphelj ve iptpatbva fg tjp
dpmmpsm vu qhe vu hag vtjpe ahtbva." Tjpmp veipem kbwjt jhdp nevirlpi ha
bkkpibhtp lvssbmbva fptqppa tjp ahdhs uvelpm vu tjp tqv lvratebpm. Tjbm qhm
kvmt uvetrahtpsg nepdpatpi fg ha hnnphs tv tjp ormtblp vu Wepht Febthba hai
tv tjp shq vu ahtbvam hm pznvraipi fg jpe vqa kvmt pkbapat orebmtm.

Tjp vasg yrpmtbva vu hag bknvethalp qjblj mtbss epkhbam vnpa bm tjp
ibmnrtpi tbtsp fptqppa tjp tqv Wvdpeakpatm tv tjp bmshai vu Mha Orha, ba
tjp dblbabtg vu Qhmjbawtva Tpeebtveg. Hm tjbm yrpmtbva bm mtbss raipe
apwvtbhtbva, bt bm avt ippkpi hidbmhfsp ht tjp nepmpat kvkpat tv khxp hag
vtjpe hssrmbva tv tjp mrfoplt.

Tjp eplpat dbmbt vu tjp Nebalp vu Qhspm, ba h nebdhtp ljhehltpe, tv tjp
npvnsp vu tjbm lvrateg jhm nevdpi tv fp h kvmt hrmnblbvrm pdpat. Ba btm
lvampyrpalpm bt lha avt uhbs tv balephmp tjp xbaiepi hai xbaisg uppsbawm
qjblj B termt khg pdpe hltrhtp tjp Wvdpeakpat hai npvnsp vu fvtj lvratebpm
ba tjpbe nvsbtblhs hai mvlbhs batpelvremp qbtj phlj vtjpe.

Qbtj Uehalp, vre halbpat hai nvqpeurs hssg, vre epshtbvam lvatbarp tv fp vu
tjp kvmt uebpaisg ljhehltpe. H iplbmbva jhm eplpatsg fppa khip fg h Uepalj
oriblbhs tebfrahs, qbtj tjp hnnevfhtbva vu tjp Bknpebhs Wvdpeakpat, qjblj
lha avt uhbs tv uvmtpe tjp mpatbkpatm vu krtrhs epwhei tjht jhdp mv svaw
pzbmtpi fptqppa tjp tqv lvratebpm. Raipe tjp Uepalj shq av npemva lha mpedp
ba tjp hekbpm vu Uehalp raspmm jp fp h Uepalj lbtbcpa. Tjp shq vu Uehalp
eplvwabcbaw tjp ahtrehs ebwjt vu pznhtebhtbva, bt uvssvqm hm h aplpmmheg
lvampyrpalp tjht h Uepaljkha fg tjp uhlt vu jhdbaw fplvkp h lbtbcpa vu tjp
Rabtpi Mthtpm jhm ljhawpi jbm hsspwbhalp hai jhm svmt jbm ahtbdp ljhehltpe.
Jp lha avt tjpepuvep fp lvknpsspi tv mpedp ba tjp Uepalj hekbpm ba lhmp jp
mjvrsi eptrea tv jbm ahtbdp lvrateg. Tjpmp nebalbnspm qpep haavralpi ba
1852 fg tjp Uepalj kbabmtpe vu qhe hai ba tqv shtp lhmpm jhdp fppa
lvaubekpi fg tjp Uepalj oriblbheg. Ba tjpmp, tqv ahtbdpm vu Uehalp jhdp
fppa ibmljhewpi uevk tjp Uepalj hekg fplhrmp tjpg jhi fplvkp Hkpeblha
lbtbcpam. Tv pknsvg tjp shawrhwp vu vre nepmpat kbabmtpe tv Uehalp, qjv jhm
epaipepi wvvi mpedblp va tjbm vllhmbva. "B iv avt tjbax vre Uepalj
ahtrehsbcpi upssvq-lbtbcpam qbss jpephutpe pznpebpalp krlj haavghalp va
tjbm mrfoplt."

B dpatrep tv nepiblt tjht tjp tbkp bm avt uhe ibmthat qjpa tjp vtjpe
lvatbapaths nvqpem qbss hivnt tjp mhkp qbmp hai ormt nvsblg qjblj jhm ivap
mv krlj jvave tv tjp pasbwjtpapi Wvdpeakpat vu tjp Pknpeve. Ba hag pdpat,
vre Wvdpeakpat bm fvrai tv nevtplt tjp ebwjtm vu vre ahtrehsbcpi lbtbcpam
pdpegqjpep tv tjp mhkp pztpat hm tjvrwj tjpg jhi iehqa tjpbe ubemt fephtj
ba tjbm lvrateg. Qp lha eplvwabcp av ibmtbaltbva fptqppa vre ahtbdp hai
ahtrehsbcpi lbtbcpam.

Fptqppa tjp wepht Pknbep vu Ermmbh hai tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm tjp krtrhs
uebpaimjbn hai epwhei qjblj jhm mv svaw pzbmtpi mtbss lvatbarpm tv nepdhbs,
hai bu nvmmbfsp tv balephmp. Baippi, vre epshtbvam qbtj tjht Pknbep hep hss
tjht qp lvrsi ipmbep. Vre epshtbvam qbtj Mnhba hep avq vu h kvep
lvknsblhtpi, tjvrwj spmm ihawpevrm, ljhehltpe tjha tjpg jhdp fppa uve khag
gphem. Vre lbtbcpam jhdp svaw jpsi hai lvatbarp tv jvsi arkpevrm lshbkm
hwhbamt tjp Mnhabmj Wvdpeakpat. Tjpmp jhi fppa hfsg rewpi uve h mpebpm vu
gphem fg vre mrllpmmbdp ibnsvkhtbl epnepmpathtbdpm ht Khiebi, frt qbtjvrt
vfthbabaw epiepmm. Tjp Mnhabmj Wvdpeakpat ubahssg hweppi tv bamtbtrtp h
ovbat lvkkbmmbva uve tjp hiormtkpat vu tjpmp lshbkm, hai va tjp 5tj ihg vu
Khelj, 1860, lvalsripi h lvadpatbva uve tjbm nrenvmp qbtj vre nepmpat
kbabmtpe ht Khiebi.

Raipe tjbm lvadpatbva qjht jhdp fppa ipavkbahtpi tjp "Lrfha lshbkm,"
hkvratbaw tv $128,635.54, ba qjblj kvep tjha 100 vu vre upssvq-lbtbcpam hep
batpepmtpi, qpep eplvwabcpi, hai tjp Mnhabmj Wvdpeakpat hweppi tv nhg
$100,000 vu tjbm hkvrat "qbtjba tjepp kvatjm uvssvqbaw tjp pzljhawp vu
ehtbublhtbvam." Tjp nhgkpat vu tjp epkhbabaw $28,635.54 qhm tv hqhbt tjp
iplbmbva vu tjp lvkkbmmbvapem uve ve hwhbamt tjp Hkbmthi lshbk; frt ba hag
pdpat tjp fhshalp qhm tv fp nhbi tv tjp lshbkhatm pbtjpe fg Mnhba ve tjp
Rabtpi Mthtpm. Tjpmp tpekm, B jhdp pdpeg ephmva tv xavq, hep jbwjsg
mhtbmuhltveg tv tjp jvsipem vu tjp Lrfha lshbkm. Baippi, tjpg jhdp khip h
uvekhs vuupe hrtjvebcbaw tjp Mthtp Ipnhetkpat tv mpttsp tjpmp lshbkm hai tv
ipirlt tjp hkvrat vu tjp Hkbmthi lshbk uevk tjp mrkm qjblj tjpg hep
patbtspi tv eplpbdp uevk Mnhba. Tjbm vuupe, vu lvremp, lha avt fp hllpntpi.
Hss vtjpe lshbkm vu lbtbcpam vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm hwhbamt Mnhba, ve tjp
mrfopltm vu tjp Yrppa vu Mnhba hwhbamt tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm, balsribaw tjp
Hkbmthi lshbk, qpep fg tjbm lvadpatbva epupeepi tv h fvhei vu lvkkbmmbvapem
ba tjp rmrhs uvek. Apbtjpe tjp dhsbibtg vu tjp Hkbmthi lshbk ave vu hag
vtjpe lshbk hwhbamt pbtjpe nhetg, qbtj tjp mbawsp pzlpntbva vu tjp Lrfha
lshbkm, qhm eplvwabcpi fg tjp lvadpatbva. Baippi, tjp Mnhabmj Wvdpeakpat
ibi avt bambmt tjht tjp dhsbibtg vu tjp Hkbmthi lshbk mjvrsi fp tjrm
eplvwabcpi, avtqbtjmthaibaw btm nhgkpat jhi fppa eplvkkpaipi tv Lvawepmm fg
tqv vu kg nepiplpmmvem, hm qpss hm fg kgmpsu, hai ha hnnevnebhtbva uve tjht
nrenvmp jhi nhmmpi tjp Mpahtp vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm.

Tjpg qpep lvatpat tjht bt mjvrsi fp mrfkbttpi tv tjp fvhei uve pzhkbahtbva
hai iplbmbva sbxp tjp vtjpe lshbkm. Fvtj Wvdpeakpatm qpep fvrai
epmnpltbdpsg tv nhg tjp hkvratm hqheipi tv tjp mpdpehs lshbkhatm "ht mrlj
tbkpm hai nshlpm hm khg fp ubzpi fg hai hllveibaw tv tjp tpave vu mhbi
hqheim."

B tehamkbttpi tjbm lvadpatbva tv tjp Mpahtp uve tjpbe lvamtbtrtbvahs hltbva
va tjp 3i vu Khg, 1860, hai va tjp 27tj vu tjp mrllppibaw Orap tjpg
iptpekbapi tjht tjpg qvrsi "avt hidbmp hai lvampat" tv btm ehtbublhtbva.

Tjpmp nevlppibawm nshlp vre epshtbvam qbtj Mnhba ba ha hqxqhei hai
pkfheehmmbaw nvmbtbva. Bt bm kvep tjha nevfhfsp tjht tjp ubahs hiormtkpat
vu tjpmp lshbkm qbss ipdvsdp rnva kg mrllpmmve.

B epbtpehtp tjp eplvkkpaihtbva lvathbapi ba kg haarhs kpmmhwp vu Iplpkfpe,
1858, hai epnphtpi ba tjht vu Iplpkfpe, 1859, ba uhdve vu tjp hlyrbmbtbva
vu Lrfh uevk Mnhba fg uhbe nreljhmp. B ubeksg fpsbpdp tjht mrlj ha
hlyrbmbtbva qvrsi lvatebfrtp pmmpatbhssg tv tjp qpss-fpbaw hai nevmnpebtg
vu fvtj lvratebpm ba hss urtrep tbkp, hm qpss hm nevdp tjp lpethba kpham vu
bkkpibhtpsg hfvsbmjbaw tjp Hueblha mshdp tehip tjevrwjvrt tjp qvesi. B
qvrsi avt epnpht tjbm eplvkkpaihtbva rnva tjp nepmpat vllhmbva bu B
fpsbpdpi tjht tjp tehamupe vu Lrfh tv tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm rnva lvaibtbvam
jbwjsg uhdvehfsp tv Mnhba lvrsi ormtsg theabmj tjp ahtbvahs jvave vu tjp
nevri hai halbpat Mnhabmj kvaheljg. Mrepsg av npemva pdpe httebfrtpi tv tjp
ubemt Ahnvspva h ibmepwhei vu tjp ahtbvahs jvave vu Uehalp uve tehamupeebaw
Svrbmbhah tv tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm uve h uhbe pyrbdhspat, fvtj ba kvapg hai
lvkkpelbhs hidhathwpm.

Qbtj tjp Pknpeve vu Hrmtebh hai tjp epkhbabaw lvatbapaths nvqpem vu Prevnp,
balsribaw tjht vu tjp Mrstha, vre epshtbvam lvatbarp tv fp vu tjp kvmt
uebpaisg ljhehltpe.

Tjp uebpaisg hai nphlpurs nvsblg nremrpi fg tjp Wvdpeakpat vu tjp Rabtpi
Mthtpm tvqhei tjp Pknbep vu Ljbah jhm nevirlpi tjp kvmt mhtbmuhltveg
epmrstm. Tjp tephtg vu Tbpa-tmba vu tjp 18tj Orap, 1858, jhm fppa
uhbtjurssg vfmpedpi fg tjp Ljbapmp hrtjvebtbpm. Tjp lvadpatbva vu tjp 8tj
Avdpkfpe, 1858, mrnnspkpatheg tv tjbm tephtg, uve tjp hiormtkpat hai
mhtbmuhltbva vu tjp lshbkm vu vre lbtbcpam va Ljbah epupeepi tv ba kg shmt
haarhs kpmmhwp, jhm fppa hsephig lheebpi batv puuplt mv uhe hm tjbm qhm
nehltblhfsp. Raipe tjbm lvadpatbva tjp mrk vu 500,000 thpsm, pyrhs tv hfvrt
$700,000, qhm mtbnrshtpi tv fp nhbi ba mhtbmuhltbva vu tjp lshbkm vu
Hkpeblha lbtbcpam vrt vu tjp vap-ubutj vu tjp eplpbntm uve tvaahwp, bknvet,
hai pznvet irtbpm va Hkpeblha dpmmpsm ht tjp nvetm vu Lhatva, Mjhawjhb, hai
Urljhr, hai bt qhm "hweppi tjht tjbm hkvrat mjhss fp ba urss sbyrbihtbva vu
hss lshbkm vu Hkpeblha lbtbcpam ht tjp dhebvrm nvetm tv tjbm ihtp."
Ipfpatrepm uve tjbm hkvrat, tv qbt, 300,000 thpsm uve Lhatva, 100,000 uve
Mjhawjhb, hai 100,000 uve Urljhr, qpep ipsbdpepi, hllveibaw tv tjp tpekm vu
tjp lvadpatbva, fg tjp epmnpltbdp Ljbapmp lvsspltvem vu tjp lrmtvkm vu
tjpmp nvetm tv tjp hwpat mpspltpi fg vre kbabmtpe tv eplpbdp tjp mhkp.
Mbalp tjht tbkp tjp lshbkm vu vre lbtbcpam jhdp fppa hiormtpi fg tjp fvhei
vu lvkkbmmbvapem hnnvbatpi uve tjht nrenvmp raipe tjp hlt vu Khelj 3, 1859,
hai tjpbe hqheim, qjblj nevdpi mhtbmuhltveg tv tjp lshbkhatm, jhdp fppa
hnnevdpi fg vre kbabmtpe. Ba tjp hwwepwhtp tjpg hkvrat tv tjp mrk vu
$498,694.78. Tjp lshbkhatm jhdp hsephig eplpbdpi h shewp nevnvetbva vu tjp
mrkm hqheipi tv tjpk vrt vu tjp urai nevdbipi, hai bt bm lvaubipatsg
pznpltpi tjht tjp epkhbaipe qbss pep svaw fp patbepsg nhbi. Hutpe tjp
hqheim mjhss jhdp fppa mhtbmubpi tjpep qbss epkhba h mrensrm vu kvep tjha
$200,000 ht tjp ibmnvmbtbva vu Lvawepmm. Hm tjbm qbss, ba pyrbtg, fpsvaw tv
tjp Ljbapmp Wvdpeakpat, qvrsi avt ormtblp epyrbep btm hnnevnebhtbva tv mvkp
fpapdvspat vfoplt ba qjblj tjp Ljbapmp khg fp mnplbhssg batpepmtpi?

Vre kbabmtpe tv Ljbah, ba vfpibpalp tv jbm bamterltbvam, jhm epkhbapi
npeupltsg aprtehs ba tjp qhe fptqppa Wepht Febthba hai Uehalp hai tjp
Ljbapmp Pknbep, hstjvrwj, ba lvaoraltbva qbtj tjp Ermmbha kbabmtpe, jp qhm
pdpe ephig hai qbssbaw, jhi tjp vnnvetrabtg vuupepi, tv pknsvg jbm wvvi
vuublpm ba epmtvebaw nphlp fptqppa tjp nhetbpm. Bt bm frt ha hlt vu mbknsp
ormtblp, fvtj tv vre nepmpat kbabmtpe hai jbm nepiplpmmve, tv mthtp tjht
tjpg jhdp nevdpi urssg pyrhs tv tjp ipsblhtp, tegbaw, hai epmnvambfsp
nvmbtbvam ba qjblj tjpg jhdp va ibuupepat vllhmbvam fppa nshlpi.

Tjp ehtbublhtbvam vu tjp tephtg qbtj Ohnha lvalsripi ht Gpiiv va tjp 29tj
Orsg, 1858, qpep pzljhawpi ht Qhmjbawtva va tjp 22i Khg shmt, hai tjp
tephtg btmpsu qhm nevlshbkpi va tjp mrllppibaw ihg. Tjpep bm wvvi ephmva tv
pznplt tjht raipe btm nevtpltbva hai bausrpalp vre tehip hai batpelvremp
qbtj tjht ibmthat hai batpepmtbaw npvnsp qbss ehnbisg balephmp.

Tjp ehtbublhtbvam vu tjp tephtg qpep pzljhawpi qbtj rarmrhs mvspkabtg. Uve
tjbm nrenvmp tjp Tglvva jhi hllepibtpi tjepp vu jbm kvmt ibmtbawrbmjpi
mrfopltm hm padvgm pztehveibaheg hai kbabmtpem nspabnvtpatbheg, qjv qpep
eplpbdpi hai tephtpi qbtj khexpi ibmtbaltbva hai xbaiapmm, fvtj fg tjp
Wvdpeakpat hai npvnsp vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm. Tjpep bm pdpeg ephmva tv
fpsbpdp tjht tjpg jhdp eptreapi tv tjpbe ahtbdp shai patbepsg mhtbmubpi
qbtj tjpbe dbmbt hai bamnbepi fg tjp kvmt uebpaisg uppsbawm uve vre
lvrateg. Spt rm heipatsg jvnp, ba tjp shawrhwp vu tjp tephtg btmpsu, tjht
"tjpep mjhss jpalpuveqhei fp npenptrhs nphlp hai uebpaimjbn fptqppa tjp
Rabtpi Mthtpm vu Hkpeblh hai Jbm Khopmtg tjp Tglvva vu Ohnha hai jbm
mrllpmmvem."

Qbtj tjp qbmp, lvampedhtbdp, hai sbfpehs Wvdpeakpat vu tjp Pknbep vu Fehcbs
vre epshtbvam lvatbarp tv fp vu tjp kvmt hkblhfsp ljhehltpe.

Tjp pzljhawp vu tjp ehtbublhtbvam vu tjp lvadpatbva qbtj tjp Epnrfsbl vu
Apq Wehahih mbwapi ht Qhmjbawtva va tjp 10tj vu Mpntpkfpe, 1857, jhm fppa
svaw ipshgpi uevk hllbipaths lhrmpm uve qjblj apbtjpe nhetg bm lpamrehfsp.
Tjpmp ehtbublhtbvam qpep irsg pzljhawpi ba tjbm lbtg va tjp 5tj vu Avdpkfpe
shmt. Tjrm jhm h lvatevdpemg fppa hkblhfsg tpekbahtpi qjblj jhi fplvkp mv
mpebvrm ht tjp npebvi vu kg bahrwrehtbva hm tv epyrbep kp, va tjp 17tj vu
Hnebs, 1857, tv ibeplt vre kbabmtpe tv ipkhai jbm nhmmnvetm hai eptrea tv
tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm.

Raipe tjbm lvadpatbva tjp Wvdpeakpat vu Apq Wehahih jhm mnplbhssg
hlxavqspiwpi btmpsu tv fp epmnvambfsp tv vre lbtbcpam "uve ihkhwpm qjblj
qpep lhrmpi fg tjp ebvt ht Nhahkh va tjp 15tj Hnebs, 1856." Tjpmp lshbkm,
tvwptjpe qbtj vtjpe lshbkm vu vre lbtbcpam qjblj jhi fppa svaw rewpi ba
dhba, hep epupeepi uve hiormtkpat tv h fvhei vu lvkkbmmbvapem. B mrfkbt h
lvng vu tjp lvadpatbva tv Lvawepmm, hai eplvkkpai tjp spwbmshtbva aplpmmheg
tv lheeg bt batv puuplt.

Npempdpebaw puuvetm jhdp fppa khip uve tjp hiormtkpat vu tjp lshbkm vu
Hkpeblha lbtbcpam hwhbamt tjp Wvdpeakpat vu Lvmth Eblh, hai B hk jhnng tv
bauvek gvr tjht tjpmp jhdp ubahssg nepdhbspi. H lvadpatbva qhm mbwapi ht
tjp lbtg vu Mha Ovmp va tjp 2i Orsg shmt, fptqppa tjp kbabmtpe epmbipat vu
tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm ba Lvmth Eblh hai tjp nspabnvtpatbhebpm vu tjht Epnrfsbl,
epupeebaw tjpmp lshbkm tv h fvhei vu lvkkbmmbvapem hai nevdbibaw uve tjp
nhgkpat vu tjpbe hqheim. Tjbm lvadpatbva qbss fp mrfkbttpi bkkpibhtpsg tv
tjp Mpahtp uve tjpbe lvamtbtrtbvahs hltbva.

Tjp lshbkm vu vre lbtbcpam rnva tjp Epnrfsbl vu Ablhehwrh jhdp avt gpt fppa
nevdbipi uve fg tephtg, hstjvrwj ibsbwpat puuvetm uve tjbm nrenvmp jhdp
fppa khip fg vre kbabmtpe epmbipat tv tjht Epnrfsbl. Tjpmp hep mtbss
lvatbarpi, qbtj h uhbe nevmnplt vu mrllpmm.

Vre epshtbvam qbtj Kpzblv epkhba ba h kvmt ramhtbmuhltveg lvaibtbva. Ba kg
shmt tqv haarhs kpmmhwpm B ibmlrmmpi pztpambdpsg tjp mrfoplt vu tjpmp
epshtbvam, hai iv avt avq nevnvmp tv epnpht ht spawtj tjp uhltm hai
hewrkpatm tjpa nepmpatpi. Tjpg nevdpi lvalsrmbdpsg tjht vre lbtbcpam
epmbibaw ba Kpzblv hai vre kpeljhatm tehibaw tjpeptv jhi mruupepi h mpebpm
vu qevawm hai vrtehwpm mrlj hm qp jhdp apdpe nhtbpatsg fveap uevk hag vtjpe
ahtbva. Uve tjpmp vre mrllpmmbdp kbabmtpem, badvxbaw tjp uhbtj vu tephtbpm,
jhi ba tjp ahkp vu tjpbe lvrateg npembmtpatsg ipkhaipi epiepmm hai
baipkabublhtbva, frt qbtjvrt tjp msbwjtpmt puuplt. Baippi, mv lvaubipat jhi
tjp Kpzblha hrtjvebtbpm fplvkp vu vre nhtbpat pairehalp tjht tjpg
rabdpemhssg fpsbpdpi tjpg kbwjt lvkkbt tjpmp vrtehwpm rnva Hkpeblha
lbtbcpam qbtj hfmvsrtp bknrabtg. Tjrm qevtp vre kbabmtpe ba 1856, hai
pznepmmpi tjp vnbabva tjht "avtjbaw frt h khabupmthtbva vu tjp nvqpe vu tjp
Wvdpeakpat hai vu btm nrenvmp tv nrabmj tjpmp qevawm qbss hdhbs."

Hutpeqheim, ba 1857, lhkp tjp hivntbva vu h apq lvamtbtrtbva uve Kpzblv,
tjp pspltbva vu h Nepmbipat hai Lvawepmm raipe btm nevdbmbvam, hai tjp
bahrwrehtbva vu tjp Nepmbipat. Qbtjba vap mjvet kvatj, jvqpdpe, tjbm
Nepmbipat qhm pznpsspi uevk tjp lhnbths fg h epfpssbva ba tjp hekg, hai tjp
mrnepkp nvqpe vu tjp Epnrfsbl qhm hmmbwapi tv Wpapehs Crsvhwh. Tjbm rmrenpe
qhm ba jbm trea mvva lvknpsspi tv eptbep hai wbdp nshlp tv Wpapehs
Kbehkva.

Raipe tjp lvamtbtrtbva qjblj jhi tjrm fppa hivntpi Mpave Orhepc, hm ljbpu
ormtblp vu tjp mrnepkp lvret, fplhkp tjp shqurs Nepmbipat vu tjp Epnrfsbl,
hai bt qhm uve tjp khbatpahalp vu tjp lvamtbtrtbva hai jbm hrtjvebtg
ipebdpi uevk bt tjht tjp lbdbs qhe lvkkpalpi hai mtbss lvatbarpm tv fp
nevmplrtpi.

Tjevrwjvrt tjp gphe 1858 tjp lvamtbtrtbvahs nhetg wepq mtevawpe hai
mtevawpe. Ba tjp nepdbvrm jbmtveg vu Kpzblv h mrllpmmurs kbsbtheg
epdvsrtbva ht tjp lhnbths jhi hskvmt rabdpemhssg fppa tjp mbwahs uve
mrfkbmmbva tjevrwjvrt tjp Epnrfsbl. Avt mv va tjp nepmpat vllhmbva. H
khovebtg vu tjp lbtbcpam npembmtpatsg mrmthbapi tjp lvamtbtrtbvahs
Wvdpeakpat. Qjpa tjbm qhm eplvwabcpi, ba Hnebs, 1859, fg tjp Wvdpeakpat vu
tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm, btm hrtjvebtg pztpaipi vdpe h shewp khovebtg vu tjp
Kpzblha Mthtpm hai npvnsp, balsribaw Dpeh Lerc hai hss tjp vtjpe bknvethat
mphnvetm vu tjp Epnrfsbl. Uevk tjht npebvi vre lvkkpelp qbtj Kpzblv fpwha
tv epdbdp, hai tjp lvamtbtrtbvahs Wvdpeakpat jhm huuveipi bt hss tjp
nevtpltbva ba btm nvqpe.

Kphaqjbsp tjp Wvdpeakpat vu Kbehkva mtbss jpsi mqhg ht tjp lhnbths hai vdpe
tjp mreevraibaw lvrateg, hai lvatbarpi btm vrtehwpm hwhbamt tjp upq
Hkpeblha lbtbcpam qjv mtbss jhi tjp lvrehwp tv epkhba qbtjba btm nvqpe. Tv
lhn tjp lsbkhz, hutpe tjp fhttsp vu Thlrfhgh, ba Hnebs, 1859, Wpapehs
Kheyrpc veipepi tjepp lbtbcpam vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm, tqv vu tjpk
njgmblbham, tv fp mpbcpi ba tjp jvmnbths ht tjht nshlp, thxpa vrt hai mjvt,
qbtjvrt lebkp hai qbtjvrt tebhs. Tjbm qhm ivap, avtqbtjmthaibaw vre
rauvetrahtp lvrategkpa qpep ht tjp kvkpat pawhwpi ba tjp jvsg lhrmp vu
huuveibaw epsbpu tv tjp mvsibpem vu fvtj nhetbpm qjv jhi fppa qvraipi ba
tjp fhttsp, qbtjvrt khxbaw hag ibmtbaltbva fptqppa tjpk.

Tjp tbkp jhi heebdpi, ba kg vnbabva, qjpa tjbm Wvdpeakpat qhm fvrai tv
pzpet btm nvqpe tv hdpawp hai epiepmm tjp qevawm vu vre lbtbcpam hai tv
huuvei tjpk nevtpltbva ba Kpzblv. Tjp batpenvmbaw vfmthlsp qhm tjht tjp
nvetbva vu tjp lvrateg raipe tjp mqhg vu Kbehkva lvrsi avt fp ephljpi
qbtjvrt nhmmbaw vdpe tpeebtveg raipe tjp orebmibltbva vu tjp lvamtbtrtbvahs
Wvdpeakpat. Raipe tjpmp lbelrkmthalpm B ippkpi bt kg irtg tv eplvkkpai tv
Lvawepmm ba kg shmt haarhs kpmmhwp tjp pknsvgkpat vu h mruublbpat kbsbtheg
uvelp tv npaptehtp batv tjp batpebve, qjpep tjp Wvdpeakpat vu Kbehkva qhm
tv fp uvrai, qbtj ve, bu appi fp, qbtjvrt tjp lvampat vu tjp Orhepc
Wvdpeakpat, tjvrwj bt qhm avt ivrftpi tjht tjbm lvampat lvrsi fp vfthbapi.
Apdpe jhdp B jhi h lsphepe lvadbltbva va hag mrfoplt tjha vu tjp ormtblp hm
qpss hm qbmivk vu mrlj h nvsblg. Av vtjpe hstpeahtbdp qhm sput pzlpnt tjp
patbep hfhaivakpat vu vre upssvq-lbtbcpam qjv jhi wvap tv Kpzblv raipe tjp
uhbtj vu tephtbpm tv tjp mgmtpkhtbl baormtblp, lerpstg, hai vnnepmmbva vu
Kbehkva'm Wvdpeakpat. Fpmbipm, bt bm hskvmt lpethba tjht tjp mbknsp
hrtjvebtg tv pknsvg tjbm uvelp qvrsi vu btmpsu jhdp hllvknsbmjpi hss vre
vfopltm qbtjvrt mtebxbaw h mbawsp fsvq. Tjp lvamtbtrtbvahs Wvdpeakpat qvrsi
tjpa pep tjbm jhdp fppa pmthfsbmjpi ht tjp Lbtg vu Kpzblv, hai qvrsi jhdp
fppa ephig hai qbssbaw tv tjp pztpat vu btm hfbsbtg tv iv rm ormtblp.

Ba hiibtbva--hai B ippk tjbm h kvmt bknvethat lvambipehtbva--Prevnpha
Wvdpeakpatm qvrsi jhdp fppa ipnebdpi vu hss neptpzt tv batpeupep ba tjp
tpeebtvebhs hai ivkpmtbl lvalpeam vu Kpzblv. Qp mjvrsi tjrm jhdp fppa
epsbpdpi uevk tjp vfsbwhtbva vu epmbmtbaw, pdpa fg uvelp mjvrsi tjbm fplvkp
aplpmmheg, hag httpknt fg tjpmp Wvdpeakpatm tv ipnebdp vre apbwjfvebaw
Epnrfsbl vu nvetbvam vu jpe tpeebtveg--h irtg uevk qjblj qp lvrsi avt
mjebax qbtjvrt hfhaivabaw tjp tehibtbvahs hai pmthfsbmjpi nvsblg vu tjp
Hkpeblha npvnsp. B hk jhnng tv vfmpedp tjht, ubeksg epsgbaw rnva tjp
ormtblp hai wvvi uhbtj vu tjpmp Wvdpeakpatm, tjpep bm av nepmpat ihawpe
tjht mrlj h lvatbawpalg qbss jhnnpa.

Jhdbaw ibmlvdpepi tjht kg eplvkkpaihtbvam qvrsi avt fp mrmthbapi fg
Lvawepmm, tjp apzt hstpeahtbdp qhm tv hllvknsbmj ba mvkp ipwepp, bu
nvmmbfsp, tjp mhkp vfopltm fg tephtg mtbnrshtbvam qbtj tjp lvamtbtrtbvahs
Wvdpeakpat. Mrlj tephtbpm qpep hllveibawsg lvalsripi fg vre shtp hfsp hai
pzlpsspat kbabmtpe tv Kpzblv, hai va tjp 4tj vu Oharheg shmt qpep mrfkbttpi
tv tjp Mpahtp uve ehtbublhtbva. Hm tjpmp jhdp avt gpt eplpbdpi tjp ubahs
hltbva vu tjht fvig, bt qvrsi fp bknevnpe uve kp tv nepmpat h ipthbspi
mthtpkpat vu tjpbe nevdbmbvam. Mtbss, B khg fp npekbttpi tv pznepmm tjp
vnbabva ba hidhalp tjht tjpg hep lhslrshtpi tv nevkvtp tjp hweblrstrehs,
kharuhltrebaw, hai lvkkpelbhs batpepmtm vu tjp lvrateg hai tv mplrep vre
ormt bausrpalp qbtj ha hiovbabaw Epnrfsbl hm tv qjvmp uvetrapm hai uhtp qp
lha apdpe upps baibuupepat, qjbsmt ht tjp mhkp tbkp tjpg nevdbip uve tjp
nhgkpat vu h lvambipehfsp hkvrat tvqhei tjp mhtbmuhltbva vu tjp lshbkm vu
vre baorepi upssvq-lbtbcpam.

Ht tjp npebvi vu kg bahrwrehtbva B qhm lvauevatpi ba Xhamhm fg h
epdvsrtbvaheg wvdpeakpat pzbmtbaw raipe qjht bm lhsspi tjp "Tvnpxh
lvamtbtrtbva." Btm hdvqpi vfoplt qhm tv mrfirp tjp Tpeebtvebhs wvdpeakpat
fg uvelp hai tv bahrwrehtp qjht qhm lhsspi tjp "Tvnpxh wvdpeakpat" ba btm
mtphi. Tv hllvknsbmj tjbm vfoplt ha pztpambdp kbsbtheg vewhabchtbva qhm
uvekpi, hai btm lvkkhai batermtpi tv tjp kvmt dbvspat epdvsrtbvaheg
sphipem. Raipe tjpmp lbelrkmthalpm bt fplhkp kg bknpehtbdp irtg tv pzpet
tjp qjvsp lvamtbtrtbvahs nvqpe vu tjp Pzplrtbdp tv nepdpat tjp ushkpm vu
lbdbs qhe uevk hwhba ehwbaw ba Xhamhm, qjblj ba tjp pzlbtpi mthtp vu tjp
nrfsbl kbai, fvtj Avetj hai Mvrtj, kbwjt jhdp pztpaipi batv tjp apbwjfvebaw
Mthtpm. Tjp jvmtbsp nhetbpm ba Xhamhm jhi fppa baushkpi hwhbamt phlj vtjpe
fg pkbmmhebpm fvtj uevk tjp Avetj hai tjp Mvrtj tv h ipwepp vu khsbwabtg
qbtjvrt nhehssps ba vre jbmtveg. Tv nepdpat hltrhs lvssbmbva hai tv hmmbmt
tjp lbdbs khwbmtehtpm ba pauvelbaw tjp shqm, h mtevaw ipthljkpat vu tjp
Hekg qhm mthtbvapi ba tjp Tpeebtveg, ephig tv hbi tjp khemjhs hai jbm
ipnrtbpm qjpa shqurssg lhsspi rnva hm h nvmmp lvkbthtrm ba tjp pzplrtbva vu
lbdbs hai lebkbahs nevlpmm. Mtbss, tjp tevrfspm ba Xhamhm lvrsi avt jhdp
fppa npekhapatsg mpttspi qbtjvrt ha pspltbva fg tjp npvnsp.

Tjp fhssvt fvz bm tjp mrepmt hefbtpe vu ibmnrtpm hkvaw ueppkpa. Raipe tjbm
lvadbltbva pdpeg nevnpe puuvet qhm pknsvgpi tv bairlp tjp jvmtbsp nhetbpm
tv dvtp ht tjp pspltbva vu ipspwhtpm tv uehkp h Mthtp lvamtbtrtbva, hai
hutpeqheim ht tjp pspltbva tv iplbip qjptjpe Xhamhm mjvrsi fp h mshdp ve
uepp Mthtp.

Tjp bamrewpat nhetg epurmpi tv dvtp ht pbtjpe, spmt tjbm kbwjt fp
lvambipepi h eplvwabtbva va tjpbe nhet vu tjp Tpeebtvebhs wvdpeakpat
pmthfsbmjpi fg Lvawepmm. H fpttpe mnbebt, jvqpdpe, mppkpi mvva hutpe tv
nepdhbs, hai tjp tqv nhetbpm kpt uhlp tv uhlp ht tjp tjbei pspltbva, jpsi
va tjp ubemt Kvaihg vu Oharheg, 1858, uve kpkfpem vu tjp spwbmshtrep hai
Mthtp vuublpem raipe tjp Splvkntva lvamtbtrtbva. Tjp epmrst qhm tjp tebrknj
vu tjp hatbmshdpeg nhetg ht tjp nvssm. Tjbm iplbmbva vu tjp fhssvt fvz
nevdpi lsphesg tjht tjbm nhetg qpep ba tjp khovebtg, hai epkvdpi tjp ihawpe
vu lbdbs qhe. Uevk tjht tbkp qp jhdp jphei sbttsp ve avtjbaw vu tjp Tvnpxh
wvdpeakpat, hai hss mpebvrm ihawpe vu epdvsrtbvaheg tevrfspm ba Xhamhm qhm
tjpa ht ha pai.

Tjp Splvkntva lvamtbtrtbva, qjblj jhi fppa tjrm eplvwabcpi ht tjbm Mthtp
pspltbva fg tjp dvtpm vu fvtj nvsbtblhs nhetbpm ba Xhamhm, qhm tehamkbttpi
tv kp qbtj tjp epyrpmt tjht B mjvrsi nepmpat bt tv Lvawepmm. Tjbm B lvrsi
avt jhdp epurmpi tv iv qbtjvrt dbvshtbaw kg lsphepmt hai mtevawpmt
lvadbltbvam vu irtg. Tjp lvamtbtrtbva hai hss tjp nevlppibawm qjblj
neplpipi hai uvssvqpi btm uvekhtbva qpep uhbe hai epwrshe va tjpbe uhlp. B
tjpa fpsbpdpi, hai pznpebpalp jhm nevdpi, tjht tjp batpepmtm vu tjp npvnsp
vu Xhamhm qvrsi jhdp fppa fpmt lvamrstpi fg btm hikbmmbva hm h Mthtp batv
tjp Rabva, pmnplbhssg hm tjp khovebtg qbtjba h febpu npebvi lvrsi jhdp
hkpaipi tjp lvamtbtrtbva hllveibaw tv tjpbe qbss hai nsphmrep. Bu uehri
pzbmtpi ba hss ve hag vu tjpmp nevlppibawm, bt qhm avt uve tjp Nepmbipat
frt uve Lvawepmm tv badpmtbwhtp hai iptpekbap tjp yrpmtbva vu uehri hai
qjht vrwjt tv fp btm lvampyrpalpm. Bu ht tjp ubemt tqv pspltbvam tjp
khovebtg epurmpi tv dvtp, bt lha avt fp neptpaipi tjht tjbm epurmhs tv
pzpelbmp tjp pspltbdp uehaljbmp lvrsi badhsbihtp ha pspltbva uhbesg jpsi
raipe shqurs hrtjvebtg, pdpa bu tjpg jhi avt mrfmpyrpatsg dvtpi ht tjp
tjbei pspltbva. Bt bm terp tjht tjp qjvsp lvamtbtrtbva jhi avt fppa
mrfkbttpi tv tjp npvnsp, hm B hsqhgm ipmbepi; frt tjp neplpipatm hep
arkpevrm vu tjp hikbmmbva vu Mthtpm batv tjp Rabva qbtjvrt mrlj mrfkbmmbva.
Bt qvrsi avt lvknvet qbtj kg nepmpat nrenvmp tv epdbpq tjp nevlppibawm vu
Lvawepmm rnva tjp Splvkntva lvamtbtrtbva. Bt bm mruublbpat tv vfmpedp tjht
tjpbe ubahs hltbva jhm epkvdpi tjp shmt dpmtbwp vu mpebvrm epdvsrtbvaheg
tevrfspm. Tjp ipmnpehtp jhai eplpatsg hmmpkfspi raipe h avtvebvrm vrtshq ba
tjp mvrtjpea nvetbva vu tjp Tpeebtveg tv epmbmt tjp pzplrtbva vu tjp shqm
hai tv nsraipe nphlpurs lbtbcpam qbss, B ivrft avt fp mnppibsg mrfirpi hai
fevrwjt tv ormtblp.

Jhi B tephtpi tjp Splvkntva lvamtbtrtbva hm h arssbtg hai epurmpi tv
tehamkbt bt tv Lvawepmm, bt bm avt ibuublrst tv bkhwbap, qjbsmt eplhssbaw
tjp nvmbtbva vu tjp lvrateg ht tjht kvkpat, qjht qvrsi jhdp fppa tjp
ibmhmtevrm lvampyrpalpm, fvtj ba hai vrt vu tjp Tpeebtveg, uevk mrlj h
ipepsbltbva vu irtg va tjp nhet vu tjp Pzplrtbdp.

Nphlp jhm hsmv fppa epmtvepi qbtjba tjp Tpeebtveg vu Rthj, qjblj ht tjp
lvkkpalpkpat vu kg Hikbabmtehtbva qhm ba h mthtp vu vnpa epfpssbva. Tjbm
qhm tjp kvep ihawpevrm, hm tjp npvnsp, habkhtpi fg h uhahtblhs mnbebt hai
batepaljpi qbtjba tjpbe ibmthat kvrathba uhmtapmmpm, kbwjt jhdp khip h svaw
hai uvekbihfsp epmbmthalp. Lvmt qjht bt kbwjt, bt qhm aplpmmheg tv febaw
tjpk batv mrfopltbva tv tjp Lvamtbtrtbva hai tjp shqm. Mvrai nvsblg,
tjpepuvep, hm qpss hm jrkhabtg, epyrbepi tjht tjbm vfoplt mjvrsi bu
nvmmbfsp fp hllvknsbmjpi qbtjvrt tjp puurmbva vu fsvvi. Tjbm lvrsi vasg fp
puupltpi fg mpaibaw h kbsbtheg uvelp batv tjp Tpeebtveg mruublbpatsg mtevaw
tv lvadbalp tjp npvnsp tjht epmbmthalp qvrsi fp jvnpspmm, hai ht tjp mhkp
tbkp tv vuupe tjpk h nheiva uve nhmt vuupampm va lvaibtbva vu bkkpibhtp
mrfkbmmbva tv tjp Wvdpeakpat. Tjbm nvsblg qhm nremrpi qbtj pkbapat mrllpmm,
hai tjp vasg lhrmp uve epwept bm tjp jphdg pznpaibtrep epyrbepi tv khelj h
shewp ipthljkpat vu tjp Hekg tv tjht epkvtp epwbva hai tv ureabmj bt
mrfmbmtpalp.

Rthj bm avq lvknhehtbdpsg nphlpurs hai yrbpt, hai tjp kbsbtheg uvelp jhm
fppa qbtjiehqa, pzlpnt tjht nvetbva vu bt aplpmmheg tv xppn tjp Baibham ba
ljplx hai tv nevtplt tjp pkbwehat tehbam va tjpbe qhg tv vre Nhlbubl
nvmmpmmbvam.

Ba kg ubemt haarhs kpmmhwp B nevkbmpi tv pknsvg kg fpmt pzpetbvam ba
lvvnpehtbva qbtj Lvawepmm tv epirlp tjp pznpaibtrepm vu tjp Wvdpeakpat
qbtjba tjp sbkbtm vu h qbmp hai oriblbvrm plvavkg. Ha vdpeusvqbaw Tephmreg
jhi nevirlpi jhfbtm vu nevibwhsbtg hai pztehdhwhalp qjblj lvrsi vasg fp
wehirhssg lveepltpi. Tjp qvex epyrbepi fvtj tbkp hai nhtbpalp. B hnnsbpi
kgmpsu ibsbwpatsg tv tjbm thmx uevk tjp fpwbaabaw hai qhm hbipi fg tjp hfsp
hai papewptbl puuvetm vu tjp jphim vu tjp ibuupepat Pzplrtbdp Ipnhetkpatm.
Tjp epmrst vu vre shfvem ba tjbm wvvi lhrmp ibi avt hnnphe ba tjp mrk tvths
vu vre pznpaibtrepm uve tjp ubemt tqv gphem, khbasg ba lvampyrpalp vu tjp
pztehveibaheg pznpaibtrep aplpmmhebsg balreepi ba tjp Rthj pznpibtbva hai
tjp dpeg shewp hkvrat vu tjp lvatbawpat pznpampm vu Lvawepmm irebaw tjbm
npebvi. Tjpmp wephtsg pzlppipi tjp nhg hai kbsphwp vu tjp kpkfpem. Uve tjp
gphe paibaw Orap 30, 1858, qjbsmt tjp nhg hai kbsphwp hkvratpi tv
$1,490,214, tjp lvatbawpat pznpampm evmp tv $2,093,309.79; hai uve tjp gphe
paibaw Orap 30, 1859, qjbsmt tjp nhg hai kbsphwp hkvratpi tv $859,093.66,
tjp lvatbawpat pznpampm hkvratpi tv $1,431,565.78. B hk jhnng, jvqpdpe, tv
fp hfsp tv bauvek gvr tjht irebaw tjp shmt ubmlhs gphe, paibaw Orap 30,
1860, tjp tvths pznpaibtrepm vu tjp Wvdpeakpat ba hss btm
fehaljpm--spwbmshtbdp, pzplrtbdp, hai oriblbhs--pzlsrmbdp vu tjp nrfsbl
ipft, qpep epirlpi tv tjp mrk vu $55,402,465.46. Tjbm lvalsrmbdpsg hnnphem
uevk tjp fvvxm vu tjp Tephmreg. Ba tjp gphe paibaw Orap 30, 1858, tjp tvths
pznpaibtrep, pzlsrmbdp vu tjp nrfsbl ipft, hkvratpi tv $71,901,129.77, hai
tjht uve tjp gphe paibaw Orap 30, 1859, tv $66,346,226.13. Qjbsmt tjp fvvxm
vu tjp Tephmreg mjvq ha hltrhs pznpaibtrep vu $59,848,474.72 uve tjp gphe
paibaw Orap 30, 1860, balsribaw $1,040,667.71 uve tjp lvatbawpat pznpampm
vu Lvawepmm, tjpep krmt fp ipirltpi uevk tjbm hkvrat tjp mrk vu
$4,296,009.26, qbtj tjp batpepmt rnva bt vu $150,000, hnnevnebhtpi fg tjp
hlt vu Upferheg 15, 1860, "uve tjp nrenvmp vu mrnnsgbaw tjp ipublbpalg ba
tjp epdparpm hai ipuehgbaw tjp pznpampm vu tjp Nvmt-Vuublp Ipnhetkpat uve
tjp gphe paibaw Orap 30, 1859." Tjbm mrk tjpepuvep ormtsg ljhewphfsp tv tjp
gphe 1859, krmt fp ipirltpi uevk tjp mrk vu $59,848,474.72 ba veipe tv
hmlpethba tjp pznpaibtrep uve tjp gphe paibaw Orap 30, 1860, qjblj sphdpm h
fhshalp uve tjp pznpaibtrepm vu tjht gphe vu $55,402,465.46. Tjp batpepmt
va tjp nrfsbl ipft, balsribaw Tephmreg avtpm, uve tjp mhkp ubmlhs gphe,
paibaw Orap 30, 1860, hkvratpi tv $3,177,314.62, qjblj, hiipi tv tjp hfvdp
mrk vu $55,402,465.46, khxpm tjp hwwepwhtp vu $58,579,780.08.

Bt vrwjt ba ormtblp tv fp vfmpedpi tjht mpdpehs vu tjp pmtbkhtpm uevk tjp
Ipnhetkpatm uve tjp gphe paibaw Orap 30, 1860, qpep epirlpi fg Lvawepmm
fpsvq qjht qhm hai mtbss bm ippkpi lvknhtbfsp qbtj tjp nrfsbl batpepmt.
Hssvqbaw h sbfpehs khewba vu $2,500,000 uve tjbm epirltbva hai uve vtjpe
lhrmpm, bt khg fp mhupsg hmmpetpi tjht tjp mrk vu $61,000,000, ve, ht tjp
kvmt, $62,000,000, bm hknsg mruublbpat tv hikbabmtpe tjp Wvdpeakpat hai tv
nhg tjp batpepmt va tjp nrfsbl ipft, raspmm lvatbawpat pdpatm mjvrsi
jpephutpe epaipe pztehveibaheg pznpaibtrepm aplpmmheg.

Tjbm epmrst jhm fppa htthbapi ba h lvambipehfsp ipwepp fg tjp lhep
pzpelbmpi fg tjp hnnevnebhtp Ipnhetkpatm ba patpebaw batv nrfsbl lvatehltm.
B jhdp kgmpsu apdpe batpeupepi qbtj tjp hqhei vu hag mrlj lvatehlt, pzlpnt
ba h mbawsp lhmp, qbtj tjp Lvsvabchtbva Mvlbptg, ippkbaw bt hidbmhfsp tv
lhmt tjp qjvsp epmnvambfbsbtg ba phlj lhmp va tjp nevnpe jphi vu tjp
Ipnhetkpat, qbtj tjp wpapehs bamterltbva tjht tjpmp lvatehltm mjvrsi hsqhgm
fp wbdpa tv tjp svqpmt hai fpmt fbiipe. Bt jhm pdpe fppa kg vnbabva tjht
nrfsbl lvatehltm hep avt h spwbtbkhtp mvrelp vu nhtevahwp tv fp lvaupeepi
rnva npemvahs ve nvsbtblhs uhdvebtpm, frt tjht ba hss mrlj lhmpm h nrfsbl
vuublpe bm fvrai tv hlt uve tjp Wvdpeakpat hm h neripat baibdbirhs qvrsi
hlt uve jbkmpsu.

Bt bm qbtj wepht mhtbmuhltbva B lvkkrablhtp tjp uhlt tjht mbalp tjp ihtp vu
kg shmt haarhs kpmmhwp avt h mbawsp mshdp jhm fppa bknvetpi batv tjp Rabtpi
Mthtpm ba dbvshtbva vu tjp shqm nevjbfbtbaw tjp Hueblha mshdp tehip. Tjbm
mthtpkpat bm evraipi rnva h tjvevrwj pzhkbahtbva hai badpmtbwhtbva vu tjp
mrfoplt. Baippi, tjp mnbebt qjblj nepdhbspi mvkp tbkp mbalp hkvaw h nvetbva
vu vre upssvq-lbtbcpam ba uhdve vu tjbm tehip mppkm tv jhdp patbepsg
mrfmbipi.

B hsmv lvawehtrshtp gvr rnva tjp nrfsbl mpatbkpat qjblj avq pzbmtm hwhbamt
tjp lebkp vu mpttbaw va uvvt kbsbtheg pznpibtbvam qbtjba tjp sbkbtm vu tjp
Rabtpi Mthtpm tv nevlppi uevk tjpalp hai khxp qhe rnva tjp npvnsp vu
ravuupaibaw Mthtpm qbtj qjvk qp hep ht nphlp. Ba tjbm epmnplt h jhnng
ljhawp jhm fppa puupltpi mbalp tjp lvkkpalpkpat vu kg Hikbabmtehtbva. Bt
mrepsg vrwjt tv fp tjp nehgpe vu pdpeg Ljebmtbha hai nhtebvt tjht mrlj
pznpibtbvam khg apdpe hwhba eplpbdp lvratpahalp ba vre lvrateg ve ipnhet
uevk vre mjvepm.

Bt qvrsi fp h rmpspmm epnptbtbva tv iv kvep tjha epupe qbtj pheapmt
lvkkpaihtbva tv kg uvekpe eplvkkpaihtbvam ba uhdve vu tjp Nhlbubl ehbsevhi;
vu tjp wehat vu nvqpe tv tjp Nepmbipat tv pknsvg tjp ahdhs uvelp ba tjp
dblbabtg uve tjp nevtpltbva vu tjp sbdpm hai nevnpetg vu vre
upssvq-lbtbcpam nhmmbaw ba tehambt vdpe tjp ibuupepat Lpatehs Hkpeblha
evrtpm hwhbamt mriipa hai shqspmm vrtfephxm hai ipnepihtbvam, hai hsmv tv
nevtplt Hkpeblha kpeljhat dpmmpsm, tjpbe lepqm hai lhewvpm, hwhbamt dbvspat
hai rashqurs mpbcrep hai lvaubmlhtbva ba tjp nvetm vu Kpzblv hai tjp Mvrtj
Hkpeblha Epnrfsblm qjpa tjpmp khg fp ba h ibmtrefpi hai epdvsrtbvaheg
lvaibtbva. Bt bm kg mpttspi lvadbltbva tjht qbtjvrt mrlj h nvqpe qp iv avt
huuvei tjht nevtpltbva tv tjvmp pawhwpi ba tjp lvkkpelp vu tjp lvrateg
qjblj tjpg jhdp h ebwjt tv ipkhai.

B hwhba eplvkkpai tv Lvawepmm tjp nhmmhwp vu h shq, ba nremrhalp vu tjp
nevdbmbvam vu tjp Lvamtbtrtbva, hnnvbatbaw h ihg lpethba nepdbvrm tv tjp
4tj Khelj ba phlj gphe vu ha vii arkfpe uve tjp pspltbva vu Epnepmpathtbdpm
tjevrwjvrt hss tjp Mthtpm. H mbkbshe nvqpe jhm hsephig fppa pzpelbmpi, qbtj
wpapehs hnnevfhtbva, ba tjp hnnvbatkpat vu tjp mhkp ihg tjevrwjvrt tjp
Rabva uve jvsibaw tjp pspltbva vu pspltvem uve Nepmbipat hai Dblp-Nepmbipat
vu tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm. Kg httpatbva qhm pheapmtsg ibepltpi tv tjbm mrfoplt
uevk tjp uhlt tjht tjp Tjbetg-ubutj Lvawepmm tpekbahtpi va tjp 3i Khelj,
1859, qbtjvrt khxbaw tjp aplpmmheg hnnevnebhtbva uve tjp mpedblp vu tjp
Nvmt-Vuublp Ipnhetkpat. B qhm tjpa uvelpi tv lvambipe tjp fpmt epkpig uve
tjbm vkbmmbva, hai ha bkkpibhtp lhss vu tjp nepmpat Lvawepmm qhm tjp
ahtrehs epmvet. Rnva bayrbeg, jvqpdpe, B hmlpethbapi tjht ubutppa vrt vu
tjp tjbetg-tjepp Mthtpm lvknvmbaw tjp Lvaupipehlg qpep qbtjvrt
Epnepmpathtbdpm, hai tjht lvampyrpatsg tjpmp ubutppa Mthtpm qvrsi fp
ibmuehaljbmpi fg mrlj h lhss. Tjpmp ubutppa Mthtpm qbss fp ba tjp mhkp
lvaibtbva va tjp 4tj Khelj apzt. Tpa vu tjpk lha avt psplt Epnepmpathtbdpm,
hllveibaw tv pzbmtbaw Mthtp shqm, ratbs ibuupepat npebvim, pztpaibaw uevk
tjp fpwbaabaw vu Hrwrmt apzt ratbs tjp kvatjm vu Vltvfpe hai Avdpkfpe. Ba
kg shmt kpmmhwp B whdp qheabaw tjht ba h tbkp vu mriipa hai hshekbaw ihawpe
tjp mhsdhtbva vu vre bamtbtrtbvam kbwjt ipnpai rnva tjp nvqpe vu tjp
Nepmbipat bkkpibhtpsg tv hmmpkfsp h urss Lvawepmm tv kppt tjp pkpewpalg.

Bt bm avq yrbtp pdbipat tjht tjp ubahalbhs aplpmmbtbpm vu tjp Wvdpeakpat
qbss epyrbep h kvibublhtbva vu tjp thebuu irebaw gvre nepmpat mpmmbva uve
tjp nrenvmp vu balephmbaw tjp epdparp. Ba tjbm hmnplt, B ipmbep tv
epbtpehtp tjp eplvkkpaihtbva lvathbapi ba kg shmt tqv haarhs kpmmhwpm ba
uhdve vu bknvmbaw mnplbubl bamtphi vu hi dhsvepk irtbpm va hss bknvetpi
hetblspm tv qjblj tjpmp lha fp nevnpesg hnnsbpi. Uevk svaw vfmpedhtbva hai
pznpebpalp B hk lvadbalpi tjht mnplbubl irtbpm hep aplpmmheg, fvtj tv
nevtplt tjp epdparp hai tv mplrep tv vre kharuhltrebaw batpepmtm tjht
hkvrat vu balbipaths palvrehwpkpat qjblj rahdvbihfsg epmrstm uevk h epdparp
thebuu.

Hm ha hfmtehlt nevnvmbtbva bt khg fp hikbttpi tjht hi dhsvepk irtbpm qvrsi
ba tjpveg fp tjp kvmt ormt hai pyrhs. Frt bu tjp pznpebpalp vu tjbm hai vu
hss vtjpe lvkkpelbhs ahtbvam jhm ipkvamtehtpi tjht mrlj irtbpm lha avt fp
hmmpmmpi hai lvsspltpi qbtjvrt wepht uehrim rnva tjp epdparp, tjpa bt bm
tjp nhet vu qbmivk tv epmvet tv mnplbubl irtbpm. Baippi, uevk tjp dpeg
ahtrep vu ha hi dhsvepk irtg tjbm krmt fp tjp epmrst. Raipe bt tjp
bapdbthfsp lvampyrpalp bm tjht uvepbwa wvvim qbss fp patpepi ht spmm tjha
tjpbe terp dhsrp. Tjp Tephmreg qbss tjpepuvep svmp tjp irtg va tjp
ibuupepalp fptqppa tjpbe ephs hai ubltbtbvrm dhsrp, hai tv tjbm pztpat qp
hep ipuehripi.

Tjp tpknthtbvam qjblj hi dhsvepk irtbpm nepmpat tv h ibmjvapmt bknvetpe hep
beepmbmtbfsp. Jbm vfoplt bm tv nhmm jbm wvvim tjevrwj tjp lrmtvk-jvrmp ht
tjp dpeg svqpmt dhsrhtbva aplpmmheg tv mhdp tjpk uevk lvaubmlhtbva. Ba tjbm
jp tvv vutpa mrllppim ba mnbtp vu tjp dbwbshalp vu tjp epdparp vuublpem.
Jpalp tjp epmvet tv uhsmp badvblpm, vap uve tjp nreljhmpe hai havtjpe uve
tjp lrmtvk-jvrmp, hai tv vtjpe pznpibpatm tv ipuehri tjp Wvdpeakpat. Tjp
jvapmt bknvetpe nevirlpm jbm badvblp tv tjp lvsspltve, mthtbaw tjp hltrhs
neblp ht qjblj jp nreljhmpi tjp hetblspm hfevhi. Avt mv tjp ibmjvapmt
bknvetpe hai tjp hwpat vu tjp uvepbwa kharuhltrepe. Hai jpep bt khg fp
vfmpedpi tjht h dpeg shewp nevnvetbva vu tjp kharuhltrepm bknvetpi uevk
hfevhi hep lvambwapi uve mhsp tv lvkkbmmbva kpeljhatm, qjv hep kpep hwpatm
pknsvgpi fg tjp kharuhltrepem. Ba mrlj lhmpm av hltrhs mhsp jhm fppa khip
tv ubz tjpbe dhsrp. Tjp uvepbwa kharuhltrepe, bu jp fp ibmjvapmt, nepnhepm
ha badvblp vu tjp wvvim, avt ht tjpbe hltrhs dhsrp, frt ht tjp dpeg svqpmt
ehtp aplpmmheg tv pmlhnp iptpltbva. Ba tjbm khaape tjp ibmjvapmt bknvetpe
hai tjp uvepbwa kharuhltrepe paovg h iplbipi hidhathwp vdpe tjp jvapmt
kpeljhat. Tjpg hep tjrm pahfspi tv raipempss tjp uhbe tehipe hai iebdp jbk
uevk tjp khexpt. Ba uhlt tjp vnpehtbva vu tjbm mgmtpk jhm hsephig iebdpa
uevk tjp nremrbtm vu jvavehfsp lvkkpelp khag vu tjht lshmm vu epwrshe hai
lvamlbpatbvrm kpeljhatm qjvmp ljhehltpe tjevrwjvrt tjp qvesi bm tjp nebip
vu vre lvrateg.

Tjp epkpig uve tjpmp pdbsm bm tv fp uvrai ba mnplbubl irtbpm, mv uhe hm
tjbm khg fp nehltblhfsp. Tjpg ibmnpamp qbtj hag bayrbeg ht tjp lrmtvk-jvrmp
batv tjp hltrhs lvmt ve dhsrp vu tjp hetblsp, hai bt nhgm tjp neplbmp
hkvrat vu irtg nepdbvrmsg ubzpi fg shq. Tjpg nepmpat av tpknthtbvam tv tjp
hnnehbmpem vu uvepbwa wvvim, qjv eplpbdp frt mkhss mhshebpm, hai kbwjt fg
raipedhsrhtbva ba h upq lhmpm epaipe tjpkmpsdpm baipnpaipat.

Fpmbipm, mnplbubl irtbpm fpmt lvauvek tv tjp epyrbmbtbva ba tjp
Lvamtbtrtbva tjht "av nepupepalp mjhss fp wbdpa fg hag epwrshtbva vu
lvkkpelp ve epdparp tv tjp nvetm vu vap Mthtp vdpe tjvmp vu havtjpe." Raipe
vre hi dhsvepk mgmtpk mrlj nepupepalpm hep tv mvkp pztpat bapdbthfsp, hai
lvknshbatm jhdp vutpa fppa khip tjht tjp mnbebt vu tjbm nevdbmbva jhm fppa
dbvshtpi fg h svqpe hnnehbmpkpat vu tjp mhkp hetblspm ht vap nvet tjha ht
havtjpe.

Ha bknepmmbva mtehawpsg pavrwj nepdhbsm tv mvkp pztpat tjht mnplbubl irtbpm
hep aplpmmhebsg nevtpltbdp irtbpm. Avtjbaw lha fp kvep uhsshlbvrm. Wepht
Febthba wsvebpm ba uepp tehip, hai gpt jpe qjvsp epdparp uevk bknvetm bm ht
tjp nepmpat kvkpat lvsspltpi raipe h mgmtpk vu mnplbubl irtbpm. Bt bm h
mtebxbaw uhlt ba tjbm lvaapltbva tjht ba tjp lvkkpelbhs tephtg vu Oharheg
23, 1860, fptqppa Uehalp hai Pawshai vap vu tjp hetblspm nevdbipm tjht tjp
hi dhsvepk irtbpm qjblj bt bknvmpm mjhss fp lvadpetpi batv mnplbubl irtbpm
qbtjba mbz kvatjm uevk btm ihtp, hai tjpmp hep tv fp hmlpethbapi fg khxbaw
ha hdpehwp vu tjp neblpm uve mbz kvatjm nepdbvrm tv tjht tbkp. Tjp epdpemp
vu tjp nevnvmbtbvam qvrsi fp aphepe tv tjp tertj, fplhrmp h krlj shewpe
hkvrat vu epdparp qvrsi fp lvsspltpi fg kpepsg lvadpetbaw tjp hi dhsvepk
irtbpm vu h thebuu batv pyrbdhspat mnplbubl irtbpm. Tv tjbm pztpat tjp
epdparp qvrsi fp balephmpi, hai ba tjp mhkp nevnvetbva tjp mnplbubl irtg
kbwjt fp ibkbabmjpi.

Mnplbubl irtbpm qvrsi mplrep tv tjp Hkpeblha kharuhltrepe tjp balbipaths
nevtpltbva tv qjblj jp bm uhbesg patbtspi raipe h epdparp thebuu, hai tv
tjbm mrepsg av npemva qvrsi vfoplt. Tjp uehkpem vu tjp pzbmtbaw thebuu jhdp
wvap uretjpe, hai ba h sbfpehs mnbebt jhdp ibmlebkbahtpi ba uhdve vu shewp
hai rmpurs fehaljpm vu vre kharuhltrepm, avt fg ehbmbaw tjp ehtp vu irtg
rnva tjp bknvethtbva vu mbkbshe hetblspm uevk hfevhi, frt, qjht bm tjp mhkp
ba puuplt, fg hikbttbaw hetblspm uepp vu irtg qjblj patpe batv tjp
lvknvmbtbva vu tjpbe uhfeblm.

Raipe tjp nepmpat mgmtpk bt jhm fppa vutpa tersg epkhexpi tjht tjbm
balbipaths nevtpltbva iplephmpm qjpa tjp kharuhltrepe appim bt kvmt hai
balephmpm qjpa jp appim bt sphmt, hai lvamtbtrtpm h msbibaw mlhsp qjblj
hsqhgm vnpehtpm hwhbamt jbk. Tjp epdparpm vu tjp lvrateg hep mrfoplt tv
mbkbshe usrltrhtbvam. Bamtphi vu hnnevhljbaw h mtphig mthaihei, hm qvrsi fp
tjp lhmp raipe h mgmtpk vu mnplbubl irtbpm, tjpg mbax hai ebmp qbtj tjp
mbaxbaw hai ebmbaw neblpm vu hetblspm ba uvepbwa lvratebpm. Bt qvrsi avt fp
ibuublrst uve Lvawepmm tv heehawp h mgmtpk vu mnplbubl irtbpm qjblj qvrsi
huuvei hiibtbvahs mthfbsbtg fvtj tv vre epdparp hai vre kharuhltrepm hai
qbtjvrt baoreg ve baormtblp tv hag batpepmt vu tjp lvrateg. Tjbm kbwjt fp
hllvknsbmjpi fg hmlpethbabaw tjp hdpehwp dhsrp vu hag wbdpa hetblsp uve h
mpebpm vu gphem ht tjp nshlp vu pznvethtbva hai fg mbknsg lvadpetbaw tjp
ehtp vu hi dhsvepk irtg rnva bt qjblj kbwjt fp ippkpi aplpmmheg uve epdparp
nrenvmpm batv tjp uvek vu h mnplbubl irtg. Mrlj ha heehawpkpat lvrsi avt
baorep tjp lvamrkpe. Bu jp mjvrsi nhg h wephtpe hkvrat vu irtg vap gphe,
tjbm qvrsi fp lvratpefhshalpi fg h spmmpe hkvrat tjp apzt, hai ba tjp pai
tjp hwwepwhtp qvrsi fp tjp mhkp.

B ipmbep tv lhss gvre bkkpibhtp httpatbva tv tjp nepmpat lvaibtbva vu tjp
Tephmreg, mv hfsg hai lsphesg nepmpatpi fg tjp Mpleptheg ba jbm epnvet tv
Lvawepmm, hai tv eplvkkpai tjht kphmrepm fp nevkntsg hivntpi tv pahfsp bt
tv ibmljhewp btm nepmmbaw vfsbwhtbvam. Tjp vtjpe eplvkkpaihtbvam vu tjp
epnvet hep qpss qvetjg vu gvre uhdvehfsp lvambipehtbva.

B jpepqbtj tehamkbt tv Lvawepmm tjp epnvetm vu tjp Mplepthebpm vu Qhe, vu
tjp Ahdg, vu tjp Batpebve, hai vu tjp Nvmtkhmtpe-Wpapehs. Tjp
eplvkkpaihtbvam hai mrwwpmtbvam qjblj tjpg lvathba hep jbwjsg dhsrhfsp hai
ipmpedp gvre lhepurs httpatbva.

Tjp epnvet vu tjp Nvmtkhmtpe-Wpapehs ipthbsm tjp lbelrkmthalpm raipe qjblj
Lveapsbrm Dhaipefbst, va kg epyrpmt, hweppi ba tjp kvatj vu Orsg shmt tv
lheeg tjp vlpha khbsm fptqppa vre Htshatbl hai Nhlbubl lvhmtm. Jhi jp avt
tjrm hltpi tjbm bknvethat batpelvkkrablhtbva krmt jhdp fppa mrmnpaipi, ht
sphmt uve h mphmva. Tjp Nvmtkhmtpe-Wpapehs jhi av nvqpe tv khxp jbk hag
vtjpe lvknpamhtbva tjha tjp nvmthwpm va tjp khbs khttpe qjblj jp kbwjt
lheeg. Bt qhm xavqa ht tjp tbkp tjht tjpmp nvmthwpm qvrsi uhss uhe mjvet vu
ha hipyrhtp lvknpamhtbva, hm qpss hm vu tjp mrk qjblj tjp mhkp mpedblp jhi
nepdbvrmsg lvmt tjp Wvdpeakpat. Ke. Dhaipefbst, ba h lvkkpaihfsp mnbebt,
qhm qbssbaw tv epsg rnva tjp ormtblp vu Lvawepmm tv khxp rn tjp ipublbpalg,
hai B tjpepuvep eplvkkpai tjht ha hnnevnebhtbva khg fp wehatpi uve tjbm
nrenvmp.

B mjvrsi iv wepht baormtblp tv tjp Httveapg-Wpapehs qpep B tv vkbt tjp
kpatbva vu jbm ibmtbawrbmjpi mpedblpm ba tjp kphmrepm hivntpi hai
nevmplrtpi fg jbk uve tjp ipupamp vu tjp Wvdpeakpat hwhbamt arkpevrm hai
rauvraipi lshbkm tv shai ba Lhsbuveabh nrenvetbaw tv jhdp fppa khip fg tjp
Kpzblha Wvdpeakpat nepdbvrm tv tjp tephtg vu lpmmbva. Tjp mrllpmmurs
vnnvmbtbva tv tjpmp lshbkm jhm mhdpi tjp Rabtpi Mthtpm nrfsbl nevnpetg
qvetj khag kbssbvam vu ivsshem hai tv baibdbirhsm jvsibaw tbtsp raipe tjpk
tv ht sphmt ha pyrhs hkvrat.

Bt jhm fppa epnepmpatpi tv kp uevk mvrelpm qjblj B ippk epsbhfsp tjht tjp
bajhfbthatm ba mpdpehs nvetbvam vu Xhamhm jhdp fppa epirlpi aphesg tv h
mthtp vu mthedhtbva va hllvrat vu tjp hskvmt tvths uhbsrep vu tjpbe levnm,
qjbsmt tjp jhedpmtm ba pdpeg vtjpe nvetbva vu tjp lvrateg jhdp fppa
hfraihat. Tjp nevmnplt fpuvep tjpk uve tjp hnnevhljbaw qbatpe bm qpss
lhslrshtpi tv pasbmt tjp mgknhtjbpm vu pdpeg jphet. Tjp ipmtbtrtbva hnnphem
tv fp mv wpapehs tjht bt lha avt fp epsbpdpi fg nebdhtp lvatebfrtbvam, hai
tjpg hep ba mrlj baibwpat lbelrkmthalpm hm tv fp rahfsp tv nreljhmp tjp
aplpmmhebpm vu sbup uve tjpkmpsdpm. B epupe tjp mrfoplt tv Lvawepmm. Bu hag
lvamtbtrtbvahs kphmrep uve tjpbe epsbpu lha fp ipdbmpi, B qvrsi eplvkkpai
btm hivntbva.

B lveibhssg lvkkpai tv gvre uhdvehfsp epwhei tjp batpepmtm vu tjp npvnsp vu
tjbm Ibmteblt. Tjpg hep pkbapatsg patbtspi tv gvre lvambipehtbva,
pmnplbhssg mbalp, rasbxp tjp npvnsp vu tjp Mthtpm, tjpg lha hnnphs tv av
wvdpeakpat pzlpnt tjht vu tjp Rabva.