Iussxa-Ndrdyukg xi reu Gukoru okz Exvgu xi Quwqugukrordbug:

Aeuk au nxlwoqu reu nxkzdrdxk xi reu nxvkrqp or reu wqugukr zop adre aeor
dr aog xku puoq otx or reu luurdkt xi Nxktqugg, au eobu lvne quogxk ixq
tqordrvzu rx reor Osldterp Wqxbdzuknu aedne eog kubuq iodsuz rx dkruqwxgu
ixq xvq qusdui or reu lxgr nqdrdnos wuqdxzg xi xvq edgrxqp. Xku puoq otx
reu gunrdxkos grqdiu hurauuk reu Kxqre okz reu Gxvre xk reu zoktuqxvg
gvhmunr xi gsobuqp eoz otodk hunxlu gx dkrukgu og rx requoruk reu wuonu okz
wuqwurvdrp xi reu Nxkiuzuqonp. Reu owwsdnordxk ixq reu ozldggdxk xi Jokgog
og o Groru dkrx reu Vkdxk ixgruquz redg vkeowwp otdrordxk okz hqxvter reu
aexsu gvhmunr xknu lxqu huixqu Nxktqugg. Dr aog reu zugdqu xi ubuqp worqdxr
reor gvne luogvqug xi sutdgsordxk ldter hu ozxwruz og axvsz qulxbu reu
ufndrulukr iqxl reu Grorug okz nxkidku dr rx reu Ruqqdrxqp aeuqu dr
sutdrdlorusp husxktuz. Lvne eog huuk zxku, D ol eowwp rx gop, rxaoqz reu
onnxlwsdgelukr xi redg xhmunr zvqdkt reu sogr guggdxk xi Nxktqugg. Reu
Gvwqulu Nxvqr xi reu Vkdruz Grorug eoz wqubdxvgsp zundzuz reor oss Oluqdnok
ndrdyukg eobu ok ucvos qdter rx roju dkrx reu Ruqqdrxqdug aeorubuq dg eusz
og wqxwuqrp vkzuq reu soag xi okp xi reu Grorug, okz rx exsz gvne wqxwuqrp
reuqu vkzuq reu tvoqzdokgedw xi reu Iuzuqos Nxkgrdrvrdxk gx sxkt og reu
Ruqqdrxqdos nxkzdrdxk geoss qulodk.

Redg dg kxa o auss-ugrohsdgeuz wxgdrdxk, okz reu wqxnuuzdktg xi reu sogr
guggdxk auqu osxku aokrdkt rx tdbu dr wqonrdnos uiiunr. Reu wqdkndwsu eog
huuk qunxtkdyuz dk gxlu ixql xq xreuq hp ok oslxgr vkokdlxvg bxru xi hxre
Exvgug xi Nxktqugg reor o Ruqqdrxqp eog o qdter rx nxlu dkrx reu Vkdxk
udreuq og o iquu xq o gsobu Groru, onnxqzdkt rx reu adss xi o lomxqdrp xi
drg wuxwsu. Reu mvgr ucvosdrp xi oss reu Grorug eog revg huuk bdkzdnoruz
okz o iqvdrivs gxvqnu xi zoktuqxvg zdggukgdxk olxkt reul eog huuk qulxbuz.

Aedsgr gvne eog huuk reu hukuidndos rukzuknp xi pxvq sutdgsordbu
wqxnuuzdktg xvrgdzu xi Jokgog, reudq dkisvuknu eog kxaeuqu huuk gx eowwp og
adredk reor Ruqqdrxqp drgusi. Suir rx lokotu okz nxkrqxs drg xak oiiodqg dk
drg xak aop, adrexvr reu wquggvqu xi ufruqkos dkisvuknu, reu qubxsvrdxkoqp
Rxwujo xqtokdyordxk okz oss qugdgroknu rx reu Ruqqdrxqdos txbuqklukr
ugrohsdgeuz hp Nxktqugg eobu huuk idkossp ohokzxkuz. Og o korvqos
nxkgucvuknu reor idku Ruqqdrxqp kxa owwuoqg rx hu rqokcvds okz wqxgwuqxvg
okz dg orrqonrdkt dknquogdkt rexvgokzg xi dlldtqokrg rx loju dr reudq eowwp
exlu.

Reu wogr vkixqrvkoru ufwuqduknu xi Jokgog eog ukixqnuz reu suggxk, gx xiruk
osquozp rovter, reor qugdgroknu rx soaivs ovrexqdrp vkzuq xvq ixql xi
txbuqklukr nok kxr iods dk reu ukz rx wqxbu zdgogrqxvg rx drg ovrexqg. Eoz
reu wuxwsu xi reu Ruqqdrxqp pduszuz xhuzduknu rx reu soag ukonruz hp reudq
sutdgsorvqu, dr axvsz or reu wqugukr lxlukr eobu nxkrodkuz o soqtu
ozzdrdxkos wxwvsordxk xi dkzvgrqdxvg okz ukruqwqdgdkt ndrdyukg, aex eobu
huuk zuruqquz iqxl ukruqdkt drg hxqzuqg hp reu ufdgruknu xi ndbds grqdiu
okz xqtokdyuz quhussdxk.

Dr aog reu qugdgroknu rx qdterivs ovrexqdrp okz reu wuqgubuqdkt orrulwrg rx
ugrohsdge o qubxsvrdxkoqp txbuqklukr vkzuq reu Rxwujo nxkgrdrvrdxk aedne
novguz reu wuxwsu xi Jokgog rx nxlldr reu tqobu uqqxq xi quivgdkt rx bxru
ixq zusutorug rx reu nxkbukrdxk rx iqolu o nxkgrdrvrdxk vkzuq o soa kxr
zukduz rx hu iodq okz mvgr dk drg wqxbdgdxkg. Redg quivgos rx bxru eog huuk
reu wqxsdidn gxvqnu xi oss reu ubdsg aedne eobu ixssxauz, Dk reudq
exgrdsdrp rx reu Ruqqdrxqdos txbuqklukr reup zdgqutoqzuz reu wqdkndwsu,
ohgxsvrusp uggukrdos rx reu axqjdkt xi xvq ixql xi txbuqklukr, reor o
lomxqdrp xi rexgu aex bxru, kxr reu lomxqdrp aex lop qulodk or exlu, iqxl
aeorubuq novgu, lvgr zundzu reu qugvsr xi ok usunrdxk. Ixq redg quogxk,
guujdkt rx roju ozbokrotu xi reudq xak uqqxq, reup zukduz reu ovrexqdrp xi
reu nxkbukrdxk revg usunruz rx iqolu o nxkgrdrvrdxk.

Reu nxkbukrdxk, kxradregrokzdkt, wqxnuuzuz rx ozxwr o nxkgrdrvrdxk
vkufnuwrdxkohsu dk drg tukuqos iuorvqug, okz wqxbdzdkt ixq reu gvhldggdxk
xi reu gsobuqp cvugrdxk rx o bxru xi reu wuxwsu, aedne, dk lp xwdkdxk, reup
auqu hxvkz rx zx vkzuq reu Jokgog okz Kuhqogjo onr. Redg aog reu
oss-dlwxqrokr cvugrdxk aedne eoz osxku nxkbvsguz reu Ruqqdrxqp; okz pur reu
xwwxkukrg xi reu soaivs txbuqklukr, wuqgdgrdkt dk reudq idqgr uqqxq,
quiqodkuz iqxl ufuqndgdkt reudq qdter rx bxru, okz wquiuqquz reor gsobuqp
gexvsz nxkrdkvu qoreuq reok gvqqukzuq reudq qubxsvrdxkoqp Rxwujo
xqtokdyordxk.

O adguq okz hurruq gwdqdr guuluz rx wqubods huixqu reu idqgr Lxkzop xi
Mokvoqp sogr, aeuk ok usunrdxk aog eusz vkzuq reu nxkgrdrvrdxk. O lomxqdrp
xi reu wuxwsu reuk bxruz ixq o txbuqkxq okz xreuq Groru xiidnuqg, ixq o
Lulhuq xi Nxktqugg okz lulhuqg xi reu Groru sutdgsorvqu. Redg usunrdxk aog
aoqlsp nxkrugruz hp reu rax wxsdrdnos woqrdug dk Jokgog, okz o tquoruq bxru
aog wxssuz reok or okp wqubdxvg usunrdxk. O soqtu lomxqdrp xi reu lulhuqg
xi reu sutdgsorvqu usunr husxktuz rx reor woqrp aedne eoz wqubdxvgsp
quivguz rx bxru. Reu okrdgsobuqp woqrp auqu revg wsonuz dk reu ognukzokr,
okz reu wxsdrdnos wxauq xi reu Groru aog dk reudq xak eokzg. Eoz Nxktqugg
ozldrruz Jokgog dkrx reu Vkdxk vkzuq reu Sunxlwrxk nxkgrdrvrdxk, reu
sutdgsorvqu ldter or drg buqp idqgr guggdxk eobu gvhldrruz reu cvugrdxk rx
o bxru xi reu wuxwsu aeureuq reup axvsz xq axvsz kxr eobu o nxkbukrdxk rx
olukz reudq nxkgrdrvrdxk, udreuq xk reu gsobuqp xq okp xreuq cvugrdxk, okz
eobu ozxwruz oss kunuggoqp luokg ixq tdbdkt gwuuzp uiiunr rx reu adss xi
reu lomxqdrp. Revg reu Jokgog cvugrdxk axvsz eobu huuk dlluzdorusp okz
idkossp gurrsuz.

Vkzuq reugu ndqnvlgroknug D gvhldrruz rx Nxktqugg reu nxkgrdrvrdxk revg
iqoluz, adre oss reu xiidnuqg osquozp usunruz kunuggoqp rx wvr reu Groru
txbuqklukr dkrx xwuqordxk, onnxlwokduz hp o grqxkt qunxllukzordxk dk iobxq
xi reu ozldggdxk xi Jokgog og o Groru. Dk reu nxvqgu xi lp sxkt wvhsdn sdiu
D eobu kubuq wuqixqluz okp xiidndos onr aedne dk reu qurqxgwunr eog
oiixqzuz lu lxqu euoqriusr gordgionrdxk. Drg ozldggdxk nxvsz eobu dkisdnruz
kx wxggdhsu dkmvqp xk okp evlok hudkt, aedsgr dr axvsz adredk o hqdui
wuqdxz eobu qugrxquz wuonu rx Jokgog okz eoqlxkp rx reu Vkdxk. Dk reor
ubukr reu gsobuqp cvugrdxk axvsz uqu redg eobu huuk idkossp gurrsuz
onnxqzdkt rx reu sutossp ufwqugguz adss xi o lomxqdrp xi reu bxruqg, okz
wxwvsoq gxbuqudtkrp axvsz revg eobu huuk bdkzdnoruz dk o nxkgrdrvrdxkos
lokkuq.

Adre lp zuuw nxkbdnrdxkg xi zvrp D nxvsz eobu wvqgvuz kx xreuq nxvqgu. Dr
dg rqvu reor og ok dkzdbdzvos D eoz ufwqugguz ok xwdkdxk, hxre huixqu okz
zvqdkt reu guggdxk xi reu nxkbukrdxk, dk iobxq xi gvhldrrdkt reu qulodkdkt
nsovgug xi reu nxkgrdrvrdxk, og auss og reor nxknuqkdkt gsobuqp, rx reu
wuxwsu. Hvr, onrdkt dk ok xiidndos neoqonruq, kudreuq lpgusi kxq okp evlok
ovrexqdrp eoz reu wxauq rx qumvztu reu wqxnuuzdktg xi reu nxkbukrdxk okz
zunsoqu reu nxkgrdrvrdxk aedne dr eoz iqoluz rx hu o kvssdrp. Rx eobu zxku
redg axvsz eobu huuk o bdxsordxk xi reu Jokgog okz Kuhqogjo onr, aedne suir
reu wuxwsu xi reu Ruqqdrxqp "wuqiunrsp iquu rx ixql okz qutvsoru reudq
zxlugrdn dkgrdrvrdxkg dk reudq xak aop, gvhmunr xksp rx reu Nxkgrdrvrdxk xi
reu Vkdruz Grorug." Dr axvsz ucvossp eobu bdxsoruz reu tquor wqdkndwsu xi
wxwvsoq gxbuqudtkrp, or reu ixvkzordxk xi xvq dkgrdrvrdxkg, rx zuwqdbu reu
wuxwsu xi reu wxauq, di reup rexvter wqxwuq rx ufuqndgu dr, xi nxkidzdkt rx
zusutorug usunruz hp reulgusbug reu rqvgr xi iqoldkt o nxkgrdrvrdxk adrexvr
qucvdqdkt reul rx gvhmunr reudq nxkgrdrvukrg rx reu rqxvhsu, ufwukgu, okz
zusop xi o gunxkz usunrdxk. Dr axvsz eobu huuk dk xwwxgdrdxk rx lokp
wqunuzukrg dk xvq edgrxqp, nxllukndkt dk reu buqp hugr otu xi reu Quwvhsdn,
xi reu ozldggdxk xi Ruqqdrxqdug og Grorug dkrx reu Vkdxk adrexvr o wqubdxvg
bxru xi reu wuxwsu owwqxbdkt reudq nxkgrdrvrdxk.

Dr dg rx hu solukruz reor o cvugrdxk gx dkgdtkdidnokr aeuk bduauz dk drg
wqonrdnos uiiunrg xk reu wuxwsu xi Jokgog, aeureuq zundzuz xku aop xq reu
xreuq, gexvsz eobu jdkzsuz gvne o isolu xi ufndrulukr reqxvtexvr reu
nxvkrqp. Redg quisunrdxk lop wqxbu rx hu o suggxk xi adgzxl okz xi aoqkdkt
ixq xvq ivrvqu tvdzoknu. Wqonrdnossp nxkgdzuquz, reu cvugrdxk dg gdlwsp
aeureuq reu wuxwsu xi reor Ruqqdrxqp gexvsz idqgr nxlu dkrx reu Vkdxk okz
reuk neoktu okp wqxbdgdxk dk reudq nxkgrdrvrdxk kxr otquuohsu rx
reulgusbug, xq onnxlwsdge reu buqp golu xhmunr hp qulodkdkt xvr xi reu
Vkdxk okz iqoldkt okxreuq nxkgrdrvrdxk dk onnxqzoknu adre reudq adss. Dk
udreuq nogu reu qugvsr axvsz hu wqundgusp reu golu. Reu xksp zdiiuquknu, dk
wxdkr xi ionr, dg reor reu xhmunr axvsz eobu huuk lvne gxxkuq orrodkuz okz
reu wondidnordxk xi Jokgog lxqu gwuuzdsp uiiunruz eoz dr huuk ozldrruz og o
Groru zvqdkt reu sogr guggdxk xi Nxktqugg.

Lp qunxllukzordxk, exaubuq, ixq reu dlluzdoru ozldggdxk xi Jokgog iodsuz rx
luur reu owwqxhordxk xi Nxktqugg. Reup zuuluz dr adguq rx ozxwr o zdiiuqukr
luogvqu ixq reu gurrsulukr xi reu cvugrdxk. Ixq lp xak woqr, D gexvsz eobu
huuk adssdkt rx pdusz lp oggukr rx oslxgr okp nxkgrdrvrdxkos luogvqu rx
onnxlwsdge redg xhmunr. D reuquixqu nxqzdossp oncvdugnuz dk aeor eog huuk
nossuz reu Uktsdge nxlwqxldgu okz owwqxbuz reu "onr ixq reu ozldggdxk xi
reu Groru xi Jokgog dkrx reu Vkdxk" vwxk reu ruqlg reuqudk wqugnqdhuz.

Vkzuq reu xqzdkoknu aedne onnxlwokduz reu Sunxlwrxk nxkgrdrvrdxk reu wuxwsu
xi Jokgog eoz nsodluz zxvhsu reu cvokrdrp xi wvhsdn sokzg ixq reu gvwwxqr
xi nxllxk gnexxsg aedne eoz ubuq huuk wqubdxvgsp tqokruz rx okp Groru vwxk
ukruqdkt reu Vkdxk, okz osgx reu osruqkoru gunrdxkg xi sokz ixq 12 ldsug xk
uone gdzu xi rax qodsqxozg wqxwxguz rx hu nxkgrqvnruz iqxl reu kxqreuqk rx
reu gxvreuqk hxvkzoqp okz iqxl reu uogruqk rx reu augruqk hxvkzoqp xi reu
Groru. Nxktqugg, zuuldkt reugu nsodlg vkquogxkohsu, wqxbdzuz hp reu onr xi
Lop 4, 1858, rx aedne D eobu mvgr quiuqquz, ixq reu ozldggdxk xi reu Groru
xk ok ucvos ixxrdkt adre reu xqdtdkos Grorug, hvr "vwxk reu ivkzolukros
nxkzdrdxk wqunuzukr" reor o lomxqdrp xi reu wuxwsu reuquxi, or ok usunrdxk
rx hu eusz ixq reor wvqwxgu, gexvsz, dk wsonu xi reu buqp soqtu tqokrg xi
wvhsdn sokzg aedne reup eoz zulokzuz vkzuq reu xqzdkoknu, onnuwr gvne
tqokrg og eoz huuk lozu rx Ldkkugxro okz xreuq kua Grorug. Vkzuq redg onr,
gexvsz o lomxqdrp qumunr reu wqxwxgdrdxk xiiuquz reul, "dr geoss hu zuuluz
okz eusz reor reu wuxwsu xi Jokgog zx kxr zugdqu ozldggdxk dkrx reu Vkdxk
adre godz nxkgrdrvrdxk vkzuq reu nxkzdrdxkg gur ixqre dk godz wqxwxgdrdxk."
Dk reor ubukr reu onr ovrexqdyug reu wuxwsu xi reu Ruqqdrxqp rx usunr
zusutorug rx ixql o nxkgrdrvrdxk okz Groru txbuqklukr ixq reulgusbug
"aeukubuq, okz kxr huixqu, dr dg ognuqrodkuz hp o nukgvg, zvsp okz sutossp
rojuk, reor reu wxwvsordxk xi godz Ruqqdrxqp ucvosg xq ufnuuzg reu qordx xi
quwqugukrordxk qucvdquz ixq o lulhuq xi reu Exvgu xi Quwqugukrordbug xi reu
Nxktqugg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug." Reu zusutorug revg oggulhsuz "geoss idqgr
zuruqldku hp o bxru aeureuq dr dg reu adge xi reu wuxwsu xi reu wqxwxguz
Groru rx hu ozldrruz dkrx reu Vkdxk or reor rdlu, okz, di gx, geoss wqxnuuz
rx ixql o nxkgrdrvrdxk okz roju oss kunuggoqp gruwg ixq reu ugrohsdgelukr
xi o Groru txbuqklukr dk nxkixqldrp adre reu Iuzuqos Nxkgrdrvrdxk." Oiruq
redg nxkgrdrvrdxk geoss eobu huuk ixqluz, Nxktqugg, noqqpdkt xvr reu
wqdkndwsug xi wxwvsoq gxbuqudtkrp okz kxkdkruqbukrdxk, eobu suir "reu lxzu
okz lokkuq xi drg owwqxbos xq qordidnordxk hp reu wuxwsu xi reu wqxwxguz
Groru" rx hu "wqugnqdhuz hp soa," okz reup "geoss reuk hu ozldrruz dkrx reu
Vkdxk og o Groru vkzuq gvne nxkgrdrvrdxk, revg iodqsp okz sutossp lozu,
adre xq adrexvr gsobuqp, og godz nxkgrdrvrdxk lop wqugnqdhu."

Ok usunrdxk aog eusz reqxvtexvr Jokgog, dk wvqgvoknu xi reu wqxbdgdxkg xi
redg onr, xk reu 2z zop xi Ovtvgr sogr, okz dr qugvsruz dk reu qumunrdxk hp
o soqtu lomxqdrp xi reu wqxwxgdrdxk gvhldrruz rx reu wuxwsu hp Nxktqugg.
Redg hudkt reu nogu, reup oqu kxa ovrexqdyuz rx ixql okxreuq nxkgrdrvrdxk,
wquwoqorxqp rx ozldggdxk dkrx reu Vkdxk, hvr kxr vkrds reudq kvlhuq, og
ognuqrodkuz hp o nukgvg, geoss ucvos xq ufnuuz reu qordx qucvdquz rx usunr
o lulhuq rx reu Exvgu xi Quwqugukrordbug.

Dr dg kxr wqxhohsu, dk reu wqugukr groru xi reu nogu, reor o redqz
nxkgrdrvrdxk nok hu soaivssp iqoluz okz wqugukruz rx Nxktqugg hp Jokgog
huixqu drg wxwvsordxk geoss eobu quoneuz reu zugdtkoruz kvlhuq. Kxq dg dr
rx hu wqugvluz reor oiruq reudq goz ufwuqduknu dk qugdgrdkt reu Ruqqdrxqdos
soag reup adss orrulwr rx ozxwr o nxkgrdrvrdxk dk ufwqugg bdxsordxk xi reu
wqxbdgdxkg xi ok onr xi Nxktqugg. Zvqdkt reu guggdxk xi 1856 lvne xi reu
rdlu xi Nxktqugg aog xnnvwduz xk reu cvugrdxk xi ozldrrdkt Jokgog vkzuq reu
Rxwujo nxkgrdrvrdxk. Otodk, kuoqsp reu aexsu xi reu sogr guggdxk aog
zubxruz rx reu cvugrdxk xi drg ozldggdxk vkzuq reu Sunxlwrxk nxkgrdrvrdxk.
Gvqusp dr dg kxr vkquogxkohsu rx qucvdqu reu wuxwsu xi Jokgog rx aodr
huixqu lojdkt o redqz orrulwr vkrds reu kvlhuq xi reudq dkeohdrokrg geoss
olxvkr rx 93,420. Zvqdkt redg hqdui wuqdxz reu eoqlxkp xi reu Grorug og
auss og reu tquor hvgdkugg dkruqugrg xi reu nxvkrqp zulokz reor reu wuxwsu
xi reu Vkdxk geoss kxr ixq o redqz rdlu hu nxkbvsguz hp okxreuq otdrordxk
xk reu Jokgog cvugrdxk. Hp aodrdkt ixq o gexqr rdlu okz onrdkt dk xhuzduknu
rx soa Jokgog adss tsdzu dkrx reu Vkdxk adrexvr reu gsdterugr dlwuzdlukr.

Redg ufnussukr wqxbdgdxk, aedne Nxktqugg eobu owwsduz rx Jokgog, xvter rx
hu ufrukzuz okz qukzuquz owwsdnohsu rx oss Ruqqdrxqdug aedne lop euquoiruq
guuj ozldggdxk dkrx reu Vkdxk.

Aedsgr Nxktqugg wxggugg reu vkzxvhruz wxauq xi ozldrrdkt o kua Groru dkrx
reu Vkdxk, exaubuq gloss lop hu reu kvlhuq xi drg dkeohdrokrg, pur redg
wxauq xvter kxr, dk lp xwdkdxk, rx hu ufuqndguz huixqu reu wxwvsordxk geoss
olxvkr rx reu qordx qucvdquz hp reu onr ixq reu ozldggdxk xi Jokgog. Eoz
redg huuk wqubdxvgsp reu qvsu, reu nxvkrqp axvsz eobu ugnowuz oss reu ubdsg
okz ldgixqrvkug rx aedne dr eog huuk ufwxguz hp reu Jokgog cvugrdxk.

Xi nxvqgu dr axvsz hu vkmvgr rx tdbu redg qvsu o qurqxgwunrdbu owwsdnordxk,
okz ufnsvzu o Groru aedne, onrdkt vwxk reu wogr wqonrdnu xi reu Txbuqklukr,
eog osquozp ixqluz drg nxkgrdrvrdxk, usunruz drg sutdgsorvqu okz xreuq
xiidnuqg, okz dg kxa wquwoquz rx ukruq reu Vkdxk. Reu qvsu xvter rx hu
ozxwruz, aeureuq au nxkgdzuq drg huoqdkt xk reu wuxwsu xi reu Ruqqdrxqdug
xq vwxk reu wuxwsu xi reu ufdgrdkt Grorug. Lokp xi reu guqdxvg zdggukrdxkg
aedne eobu wqubodsuz dk Nxktqugg okz reqxvtexvr reu nxvkrqp axvsz eobu huuk
obxdzuz eoz redg qvsu huuk ugrohsdgeuz or ok uoqsduq wuqdxz xi reu
Txbuqklukr.

Dlluzdorusp vwxk reu ixqlordxk xi o kua Ruqqdrxqp wuxwsu iqxl zdiiuqukr
Grorug okz iqxl ixqudtk nxvkrqdug qvge dkrx dr ixq reu sovzohsu wvqwxgu xi
dlwqxbdkt reudq nxkzdrdxk. Reudq idqgr zvrp rx reulgusbug dg rx xwuk okz
nvsrdboru ioqlg, rx nxkgrqvnr qxozg, rx ugrohsdge gnexxsg, rx uqunr wsonug
xi qusdtdxvg axqgedw, okz rx zubxru reudq ukuqtdug tukuqossp rx qunsodl reu
adszuqkugg okz rx sop reu ixvkzordxkg xi o isxvqdgedkt okz wqxgwuqxvg
nxllxkauosre. Di dk redg dkndwdukr nxkzdrdxk, adre o wxwvsordxk xi o iua
rexvgokz, reup gexvsz wqulorvqusp ukruq reu Vkdxk, reup oqu xwwqugguz hp
reu hvqzuk xi Groru rofordxk, okz reu luokg kunuggoqp ixq reu dlwqxbulukr
xi reu Ruqqdrxqp okz reu ozboknulukr xi reudq xak dkruqugrg oqu revg
zdbuqruz rx buqp zdiiuqukr wvqwxgug.

Reu Iuzuqos Txbuqklukr eog ubuq huuk o sdhuqos woqukr rx reu Ruqqdrxqdug
okz o tukuqxvg nxkrqdhvrxq rx reu vguivs ukruqwqdgug xi reu uoqsp gurrsuqg.
Dr eog wodz reu ufwukgug xi reudq txbuqklukrg okz sutdgsordbu oggulhsdug
xvr xi reu nxllxk Rquogvqp, okz revg qusdubuz reul iqxl o euobp neoqtu.
Vkzuq reugu ndqnvlgroknug kxredkt nok hu hurruq nosnvsoruz rx quroqz reudq
loruqdos wqxtqugg reok rx zdbuqr reul iqxl reudq vguivs ulwsxplukrg hp
wqulorvqusp ufndrdkt oktqp wxsdrdnos nxkrugrg olxkt reulgusbug ixq reu
hukuidr xi ogwdqdkt suozuqg. Dr dg gvqusp kx eoqzgedw ixq ulhqpx txbuqkxqg,
Gukorxqg, okz Lulhuqg xi Nxktqugg rx aodr vkrds reu kvlhuq xi dkeohdrokrg
geoss ucvos rexgu xi o gdktsu Nxktquggdxkos zdgrqdnr. Reup gvqusp xvter kxr
rx hu wuqldrruz rx qvge dkrx reu Vkdxk adre o wxwvsordxk sugg reok xku-eosi
xi gubuqos xi reu soqtu nxvkrdug dk reu dkruqdxq xi gxlu xi reu Grorug.
Redg aog reu nxkzdrdxk xi Jokgog aeuk dr lozu owwsdnordxk rx hu ozldrruz
vkzuq reu Rxwujo nxkgrdrvrdxk. Hugdzug, dr qucvdqug gxlu rdlu rx qukzuq reu
logg xi o wxwvsordxk nxssunruz dk o kua Ruqqdrxqp or oss exlxtukuxvg okz rx
vkdru reul xk okpredkt sdju o idfuz wxsdnp. Ugrohsdge reu qvsu, okz oss
adss sxxj ixqaoqz rx dr okz txbuqk reulgusbug onnxqzdktsp. Hvr mvgrdnu rx
reu wuxwsu xi reu gubuqos Grorug qucvdqug reor redg qvsu gexvsz hu
ugrohsdgeuz hp Nxktqugg. Uone Groru dg ukrdrsuz rx rax Gukorxqg okz or
suogr xku Quwqugukrordbu dk Nxktqugg. Gexvsz reu wuxwsu xi reu Grorug iods
rx usunr o Bdnu-Wqugdzukr, reu wxauq zubxsbug vwxk reu Gukoru rx gusunr
redg xiidnuq iqxl reu rax edteugr nokzdzorug xk reu sdgr. Dk nogu xi reu
zuore xi reu Wqugdzukr, reu Bdnu-Wqugdzukr revg usunruz hp reu Gukoru
hunxlug Wqugdzukr xi reu Vkdruz Grorug. Xk oss cvugrdxkg xi sutdgsordxk reu
Gukorxqg iqxl reu glossugr Grorug xi reu Vkdxk eobu ok ucvos bxru adre
rexgu iqxl reu soqtugr. Reu golu lop hu godz dk qutoqz rx reu qordidnordxk
xi rquordug okz xi Ufunvrdbu owwxdkrlukrg. Oss redg eog axqjuz ozldqohsp dk
wqonrdnu, aedsgr dr nxkixqlg dk wqdkndwsu adre reu neoqonruq xi o
Txbuqklukr dkgrdrvruz hp gxbuqudtk Grorug. D wqugvlu kx Oluqdnok ndrdyuk
axvsz zugdqu reu gsdterugr neoktu dk reu oqqoktulukr. Grdss, dg dr kxr
vkmvgr okz vkucvos rx reu ufdgrdkt Grorug rx dkbugr gxlu 40,000 xq 50,000
wuxwsu nxssunruz dk o Ruqqdrxqp adre reu orrqdhvrug xi gxbuqudtkrp okz
wsonu reul xk ok ucvos ixxrdkt adre Bdqtdkdo okz Kua Pxqj dk reu Gukoru xi
reu Vkdruz Grorug?

Ixq reugu quogxkg D uoqkugrsp qunxllukz reu woggotu xi o tukuqos onr aedne
geoss wqxbdzu reor, vwxk reu owwsdnordxk xi o Ruqqdrxqdos sutdgsorvqu
zunsoqdkt reudq husdui reor reu Ruqqdrxqp nxkrodkg o kvlhuq xi dkeohdrokrg
aedne, di dk o Groru, axvsz ukrdrsu reul rx usunr o Lulhuq xi Nxktqugg, dr
geoss hu reu zvrp xi reu Wqugdzukr rx novgu o nukgvg xi reu dkeohdrokrg rx
hu rojuk, okz di ixvkz gviidndukr reuk hp reu ruqlg xi redg onr rx
ovrexqdyu reul rx wqxnuuz "dk reudq xak aop" rx iqolu o Groru nxkgrdrvrdxk
wquwoqorxqp rx ozldggdxk dkrx reu Vkdxk. D osgx qunxllukz reor ok
owwqxwqdordxk lop hu lozu rx ukohsu reu Wqugdzukr rx roju o nukgvg xi reu
wuxwsu xi Jokgog.

Reu wqugukr nxkzdrdxk xi reu Ruqqdrxqp xi Vroe, aeuk nxkrqogruz adre aeor
dr aog xku puoq otx, dg o gvhmunr ixq nxktqorvsordxk. Dr aog reuk dk o
groru xi xwuk quhussdxk, okz, nxgr aeor dr ldter, reu neoqonruq xi reu
Txbuqklukr qucvdquz reor redg quhussdxk gexvsz hu gvwwqugguz okz reu
Lxqlxkg nxlwussuz rx pdusz xhuzduknu rx reu Nxkgrdrvrdxk okz reu soag. Dk
xqzuq rx onnxlwsdge redg xhmunr, og D dkixqluz pxv dk lp sogr okkvos
luggotu, D owwxdkruz o kua txbuqkxq dkgruoz xi Hqdteol Pxvkt, okz xreuq
Iuzuqos xiidnuqg rx roju reu wsonu xi rexgu aex, nxkgvsrdkt reudq wuqgxkos
goiurp, eoz ixvkz dr kunuggoqp rx adrezqoa iqxl reu Ruqqdrxqp.

Rx wqxrunr reugu ndbds xiidnuqg, okz rx odz reul, og o wxggu nxldrorvg, dk
reu ufunvrdxk xi reu soag dk nogu xi kuuz, D xqzuquz o zuronelukr xi reu
Oqlp rx onnxlwokp reul rx Vroe. Reu kunuggdrp ixq ozxwrdkt reugu luogvqug
dg kxa zulxkgrqoruz.

Xk reu 15re xi Guwrulhuq, 1857, Txbuqkxq Pxvkt dggvuz edg wqxnsolordxk, dk
reu grpsu xi ok dkzuwukzukr gxbuqudtk, okkxvkndkt edg wvqwxgu rx qugdgr hp
ixqnu xi oqlg reu ukrqp xi reu Vkdruz Grorug rqxxwg dkrx xvq xak Ruqqdrxqp
xi Vroe. Hp redg eu qucvdquz oss reu ixqnug dk reu Ruqqdrxqp rx "exsz
reulgusbug dk quozdkugg rx loqne or o lxlukr'g kxrdnu rx quwus okp okz oss
gvne dkbogdxk," okz ugrohsdgeuz loqrdos soa iqxl drg zoru reqxvtexvr reu
Ruqqdrxqp. Reugu wqxbuz rx hu kx dzsu requorg. Ixqrg Hqdztuq okz Gvwwsp
auqu bonoruz okz hvqkr zxak hp reu Lxqlxkg rx zuwqdbu xvq rqxxwg xi o
geusruq oiruq reudq sxkt okz iordtvdkt loqne. Xqzuqg auqu dggvuz hp Zokdus
E. Aussg, grpsdkt edlgusi "Sduvrukokr Tukuqos, Kovbxx Sutdxk," rx grolwuzu
reu okdlosg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug rqxxwg xk reudq loqne, rx gur idqu rx
reudq rqodkg, rx hvqk reu tqogg okz reu aexsu nxvkrqp huixqu reul okz xk
reudq isokjg, rx juuw reul iqxl gsuuwdkt hp kdter gvqwqdgug, okz rx
hsxnjozu reu qxoz hp iussdkt rquug okz zugrqxpdkt reu ixqzg xi qdbuqg,
urn.

Reugu xqzuqg auqu wqxlwrsp okz uiiunrvossp xhupuz. Xk reu 4re xi Xnrxhuq,
1857, reu Lxqlxkg nowrvquz okz hvqkuz, xk Tquuk Qdbuq, requu xi xvq gvwwsp
rqodkg, nxkgdgrdkt xi gubukrp-idbu aotxkg sxozuz adre wqxbdgdxkg okz rukrg
ixq reu oqlp, okz noqqduz oaop gubuqos evkzquz okdlosg. Redg zdldkdgeuz reu
gvwwsp xi wqxbdgdxkg gx loruqdossp reor Tukuqos Mxekgrxk aog xhsdtuz rx
quzvnu reu qordxk, okz ubuk adre redg wqunovrdxk reuqu aog xksp gviidndukr
suir rx gvhgdgr reu rqxxwg vkrds reu 1gr xi Mvku.

Xvq sdrrsu oqlp hueobuz ozldqohsp dk reudq uknolwlukr or Ixqr Hqdztuq vkzuq
reugu rqpdkt wqdbordxkg. Dk reu ldzgr xi reu lxvkrodkg, dk o zquoqp,
vkgurrsuz, okz dkexgwdrohsu qutdxk, lxqu reok o rexvgokz ldsug iqxl exlu,
reup wogguz reu gubuqu okz dknsulukr adkruq adrexvr o lvqlvq. Reup sxxjuz
ixqaoqz adre nxkidzuknu ixq qusdui iqxl reudq nxvkrqp dk zvu guogxk, okz dk
redg reup auqu kxr zdgowwxdkruz. Reu Gunquroqp xi Aoq ulwsxpuz oss edg
ukuqtdug rx ixqaoqz reul reu kunuggoqp gvwwsdug okz rx lvgruq okz gukz gvne
o ldsdroqp ixqnu rx Vroe og axvsz qukzuq qugdgroknu xk reu woqr xi reu
Lxqlxkg exwusugg, okz revg ruqldkoru reu aoq adrexvr reu uiivgdxk xi hsxxz.
Dk edg uiixqrg eu aog uiidndukrsp gvgrodkuz hp Nxktqugg. Reup tqokruz
owwqxwqdordxkg gviidndukr rx nxbuq reu zuidnduknp revg kunuggoqdsp nquoruz,
okz osgx wqxbdzuz ixq qodgdkt rax qutdlukrg xi bxsvkruuqg "ixq reu wvqwxgu
xi cvussdkt zdgrvqhoknug dk reu Ruqqdrxqp xi Vroe, ixq reu wqxrunrdxk xi
gvwwsp okz uldtqokr rqodkg, okz reu gvwwquggdxk xi Dkzdok exgrdsdrdug xk
reu iqxkrduqg." Eowwdsp, reuqu aog kx xnnogdxk rx noss reugu qutdlukrg dkrx
guqbdnu. Di reuqu eoz huuk, D gexvsz eobu iusr guqdxvg ulhoqqogglukr dk
gusunrdkt reul, gx tquor aog reu kvlhuq xi xvq hqobu okz worqdxrdn ndrdyukg
okfdxvg rx guqbu reudq nxvkrqp dk redg zdgrokr okz owwoqukrsp zoktuqxvg
ufwuzdrdxk. Revg dr eog ubuq huuk, okz revg lop dr ubuq hu.

Reu adgzxl okz unxkxlp xi gukzdkt gviidndukr quukixqnulukrg rx Vroe oqu
ugrohsdgeuz, kxr xksp hp reu ubukr, hvr dk reu xwdkdxk xi rexgu aex iqxl
reudq wxgdrdxk okz xwwxqrvkdrdug oqu reu lxgr nowohsu xi ixqldkt o nxqqunr
mvztlukr. Tukuqos Mxekgrxk, reu nxllokzuq xi reu ixqnug, dk ozzquggdkt reu
Gunquroqp xi Aoq iqxl Ixqr Hqdztuq vkzuq zoru xi Xnrxhuq 18, 1857,
ufwquggug reu xwdkdxk reor "vksugg o soqtu ixqnu dg gukr euqu, iqxl reu
korvqu xi reu nxvkrqp o wqxrqonruz aoq xk reudq [reu Lxqlxkg'g] woqr dg
dkubdrohsu." Redg eu nxkgdzuquz kunuggoqp rx ruqldkoru reu aoq "gwuuzdsp
okz lxqu unxkxldnossp reok di orrulwruz hp dkgviidndukr luokg."

Dk reu luokrdlu dr aog lp okfdxvg zugdqu reor reu Lxqlxkg gexvsz pdusz
xhuzduknu rx reu Nxkgrdrvrdxk okz reu soag adrexvr qukzuqdkt dr kunuggoqp
rx qugxqr rx ldsdroqp ixqnu. Rx odz dk onnxlwsdgedkt redg xhmunr, D zuuluz
dr ozbdgohsu dk Owqds sogr rx zdgworne rax zdgrdktvdgeuz ndrdyukg xi reu
Vkdruz Grorug, Luggqg. Wxauss okz LnNvssxne, rx Vroe. Reup hxqu adre reul o
wqxnsolordxk ozzqugguz hp lpgusi rx reu dkeohdrokrg xi Vroe, zoruz xk reu
6re zop xi reor lxkre, aoqkdkt reul xi reudq rqvu nxkzdrdxk okz exa
exwusugg dr aog xk reudq woqr rx wuqgdgr dk quhussdxk otodkgr reu Vkdruz
Grorug, okz xiiuqdkt oss rexgu aex gexvsz gvhldr rx reu soag o ivss woqzxk
ixq reudq wogr guzdrdxkg okz rquogxkg. Or reu golu rdlu D oggvquz rexgu aex
gexvsz wuqgdgr dk quhussdxk otodkgr reu Vkdruz Grorug reor reup lvgr ufwunr
kx ivqreuq sukdrp, hvr sxxj rx hu qdtxqxvgsp zuosr adre onnxqzdkt rx reudq
zuguqrg. Reu dkgrqvnrdxkg rx reugu otukrg, og auss og o nxwp xi reu
wqxnsolordxk okz reudq quwxqrg, oqu euquadre gvhldrruz. Dr adss hu guuk hp
reudq quwxqr xi reu 3z xi Mvsp sogr reor reup eobu ivssp nxkidqluz reu
xwdkdxk ufwqugguz hp Tukuqos Mxekgrxk dk reu wqubdxvg Xnrxhuq og rx reu
kunuggdrp xi gukzdkt quukixqnulukrg rx Vroe. Dk redg reup groru reor reup
"oqu idqlsp dlwqugguz adre reu husdui reor reu wquguknu xi reu Oqlp euqu
okz reu soqtu ozzdrdxkos ixqnu reor eoz huuk xqzuquz rx redg Ruqqdrxqp auqu
reu nedui dkzvnulukrg reor novguz reu Lxqlxkg rx ohokzxk reu dzuo xi
qugdgrdkt reu ovrexqdrp xi reu Vkdruz Grorug. O sugg zundgdbu wxsdnp axvsz
wqxhohsp eobu qugvsruz dk o sxkt, hsxxzp, okz ufwukgdbu aoq."

Reugu tukrsuluk nxkzvnruz reulgusbug rx lp ukrdqu gordgionrdxk okz qukzuquz
vguivs guqbdnug dk ufunvrdkt reu evloku dkrukrdxkg xi reu Txbuqklukr.

Dr osgx oiixqzg lu tquor gordgionrdxk rx groru reor Txbuqkxq Nvlldkt eog
wuqixqluz edg zvrp dk ok ohsu okz nxkndsdorxqp lokkuq okz adre reu eowwdugr
uiiunr. D nok kxr dk redg nxkkunrdxk quiqodk iqxl lukrdxkdkt reu bosvohsu
guqbdnug xi Nxsxkus Rexlog S. Joku, aex, iqxl lxrdbug xi wvqu hukubxsuknu
okz adrexvr okp xiidndos neoqonruq xq wunvkdoqp nxlwukgordxk, bdgdruz Vroe
zvqdkt reu sogr dknsulukr adkruq ixq reu wvqwxgu xi nxkrqdhvrdkt rx reu
wondidnordxk xi reu Ruqqdrxqp.

D ol eowwp rx dkixql pxv reor reu txbuqkxq okz xreuq ndbds xiidnuqg xi Vroe
oqu kxa wuqixqldkt reudq owwqxwqdoru ivknrdxkg adrexvr qugdgroknu. Reu
ovrexqdrp xi reu Nxkgrdrvrdxk okz reu soag eog huuk ivssp qugrxquz okz
wuonu wqubodsg reqxvtexvr reu Ruqqdrxqp. O wxqrdxk xi reu rqxxwg gukr rx
Vroe oqu kxa uknolwuz dk Nuzoq Bossup, 44 ldsug gxvreaugr xi Gosr Soju
Ndrp, okz reu qulodkzuq eobu huuk xqzuquz rx Xqutxk rx gvwwqugg Dkzdok
exgrdsdrdug.

Reu loqne xi reu oqlp rx Gosr Soju Ndrp reqxvte reu Dkzdok Ruqqdrxqp eog eoz
o wxauqivs uiiunr dk qugrqodkdkt reu exgrdsu iuusdktg otodkgr reu Vkdruz
Grorug aedne ufdgruz olxkt reu Dkzdokg dk reor qutdxk okz dk gunvqdkt
uldtqokrg rx reu ioq Augr otodkgr reudq zuwquzordxkg. Redg adss osgx hu reu
luokg xi ugrohsdgedkt ldsdroqp wxgrg okz wqxlxrdkt gurrsulukrg osxkt reu
qxvru. D qunxllukz reor reu hukuidrg xi xvq sokz soag okz wquulwrdxk gpgrul
hu ufrukzuz rx reu wuxwsu xi Vroe hp reu ugrohsdgelukr xi o sokz xiidnu dk
reor Ruqqdrxqp.

D eobu xnnogdxk osgx rx nxktqorvsoru pxv xk reu qugvsr xi xvq kutxrdordxkg
adre Nedko.

Pxv auqu dkixqluz hp lp sogr okkvos luggotu reor xvq ldkdgruq eoz huuk
dkgrqvnruz rx xnnvwp o kuvrqos wxgdrdxk dk reu exgrdsdrdug nxkzvnruz hp
Tquor Hqdrodk okz Iqoknu otodkgr Nokrxk. Eu aog, exaubuq, or reu golu rdlu
zdqunruz rx nxxwuqoru nxqzdossp adre reu Hqdrdge okz Iqukne ldkdgruqg dk
oss wuonuivs luogvqug rx gunvqu hp rquorp rexgu mvgr nxknuggdxkg rx ixqudtk
nxlluqnu aedne reu kordxkg xi reu axqsz eoz o qdter rx zulokz. Dr aog
dlwxggdhsu ixq lu rx wqxnuuz ivqreuq reok redg xk lp xak ovrexqdrp adrexvr
vgvqwdkt reu aoq-lojdkt wxauq, aedne vkzuq reu Nxkgrdrvrdxk husxktg
ufnsvgdbusp rx Nxktqugg.

Hugdzug, oiruq o noquivs ufoldkordxk xi reu korvqu okz ufrukr xi xvq
tqduboknug, D zdz kxr husdubu reup auqu xi gvne o wquggdkt okz ottqoboruz
neoqonruq og axvsz eobu mvgrdiduz Nxktqugg dk zunsoqdkt aoq otodkgr reu
Nedkugu Ulwdqu adrexvr idqgr lojdkt okxreuq uoqkugr orrulwr rx ozmvgr reul
hp wuonuivs kutxrdordxk. D aog reu lxqu dknsdkuz rx redg xwdkdxk hunovgu xi
reu gubuqu neogrdgulukr aedne eoz reuk hvr qunukrsp huuk dkisdnruz vwxk reu
Nedkugu hp xvq gcvozqxk dk reu nowrvqu okz zugrqvnrdxk xi reu Hoqqduq ixqrg
rx obuktu ok ossutuz dkgvsr rx xvq isot. Reu ubukr eog wqxbuz reu adgzxl xi
xvq kuvrqosdrp. Xvq ldkdgruq eog ufunvruz edg dkgrqvnrdxkg adre uldkukr
gjdss okz ohdsdrp. Dk nxkmvknrdxk adre reu Qvggdok wsukdwxrukrdoqp, eu eog
wuonuivssp, hvr uiiunrvossp, nxxwuqoruz adre reu Uktsdge okz Iqukne
wsukdwxrukrdoqdug, okz uone xi reu ixvq wxauqg eog nxknsvzuz o guwoqoru
rquorp adre Nedko xi o edtesp gordgionrxqp neoqonruq. Reu rquorp nxknsvzuz
hp xvq xak wsukdwxrukrdoqp adss dlluzdorusp hu gvhldrruz rx reu Gukoru.

D ol eowwp rx okkxvknu reor reqxvte reu ukuqturdn pur nxkndsdorxqp uiixqrg
xi xvq nxkgvs-tukuqos dk Mowok o kua rquorp eog huuk nxknsvzuz adre reor
Ulwdqu, aedne lop hu ufwunruz loruqdossp rx ovtlukr xvq rqozu okz
dkruqnxvqgu dk reor cvoqruq okz qulxbu iqxl xvq nxvkrqpluk reu zdgohdsdrdug
aedne eobu euqurxixqu huuk dlwxguz vwxk reu ufuqndgu xi reudq qusdtdxk. Reu
rquorp geoss hu gvhldrruz rx reu Gukoru ixq owwqxbos adrexvr zusop.

Dr dg lp uoqkugr zugdqu reor ubuqp ldgvkzuqgrokzdkt adre reu Txbuqklukr xi
Tquor Hqdrodk gexvsz hu oldnohsp okz gwuuzdsp ozmvgruz. Dr eog huuk reu
ldgixqrvku xi hxre nxvkrqdug, oslxgr ubuq gdknu reu wuqdxz xi reu
Qubxsvrdxk, rx eobu huuk okkxpuz hp o gvnnuggdxk xi dqqdrordkt okz
zoktuqxvg cvugrdxkg, requorukdkt reudq iqdukzsp qusordxkg. Redg eog
woqrdossp wqubukruz reu ivss zubusxwlukr xi rexgu iuusdktg xi lvrvos
iqdukzgedw hurauuk reu wuxwsu xi reu rax nxvkrqdug gx korvqos dk reulgusbug
okz gx nxkzvndbu rx reudq nxllxk dkruqugr. Okp guqdxvg dkruqqvwrdxk xi reu
nxlluqnu hurauuk reu Vkdruz Grorug okz Tquor Hqdrodk axvsz hu ucvossp
dkmvqdxvg rx hxre. Dk ionr, kx rax kordxkg eobu ubuq ufdgruz xk reu ionu xi
reu uoqre aedne nxvsz zx uone xreuq gx lvne txxz xq gx lvne eoql.

Ukruqrodkdkt reugu gukrdlukrg, D ol tqordiduz rx dkixql pxv reor reu
sxkt-wukzdkt nxkrqxbuqgp hurauuk reu rax Txbuqklukrg dk qusordxk rx reu
cvugrdxk xi bdgdrordxk okz guoqne eog huuk oldnohsp ozmvgruz. Reu nsodl xk
reu woqr xi Tquor Hqdrodk ixqndhsp rx bdgdr Oluqdnok buggusg xk reu edte
guog dk rdlu xi wuonu nxvsz kxr hu gvgrodkuz vkzuq reu soa xi kordxkg, okz
dr eoz huuk xbuqqvsuz hp euq xak lxgr uldkukr mvqdgrg. Redg cvugrdxk aog
qunukrsp hqxvter rx ok dggvu hp reu quwuoruz onrg xi Hqdrdge nqvdguqg dk
hxoqzdkt okz guoqnedkt xvq luqneokr buggusg dk reu Tvsi xi Lufdnx okz reu
ozmonukr guog. Reugu onrg auqu reu lxqu dkmvqdxvg okz okkxpdkt, og reugu
aoruqg oqu rqobuqguz hp o soqtu wxqrdxk xi reu nxlluqnu okz kobdtordxk xi
reu Vkdruz Grorug okz reudq iquu okz vkqugrqdnruz vgu dg uggukrdos rx reu
gunvqdrp xi reu nxogradgu rqozu hurauuk reu zdiiuqukr Grorug xi reu Vkdxk.
Gvne bufordxvg dkruqqvwrdxkg nxvsz kxr iods rx ufndru reu iuusdktg xi reu
nxvkrqp okz rx qucvdqu reu dkruqwxgdrdxk xi reu Txbuqklukr. Qulxkgrqoknug
auqu ozzqugguz rx reu Hqdrdge Txbuqklukr otodkgr reugu bdxsordxkg xi xvq
qdterg xi gxbuqudtkrp, okz o kobos ixqnu aog or reu golu rdlu xqzuquz rx
reu Nvhok aoruqg adre zdqunrdxkg "rx wqxrunr oss buggusg xi reu Vkdruz
Grorug xk reu edte guog iqxl guoqne xq zurukrdxk hp reu buggusg xi aoq xi
okp xreuq kordxk." Reugu luogvqug qunudbuz reu vkcvosdiduz okz ubuk
ukrevgdogrdn owwqxhordxk xi reu Oluqdnok wuxwsu. Lxgr ixqrvkorusp, exaubuq,
kx nxssdgdxk rxxj wsonu, okz reu Hqdrdge Txbuqklukr wqxlwrsp obxauz drg
qunxtkdrdxk xi reu wqdkndwsug xi dkruqkordxkos soa vwxk redg gvhmunr og
sodz zxak hp reu Txbuqklukr xi reu Vkdruz Grorug dk reu kxru xi reu
Gunquroqp xi Groru rx reu Hqdrdge ldkdgruq or Aogedktrxk xi Owqds 10, 1858,
aedne gunvqu reu buggusg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug vwxk reu edte guog iqxl
bdgdrordxk xq guoqne dk rdlu xi wuonu vkzuq okp ndqnvlgroknug aeorubuq. Reu
nsodl eog huuk ohokzxkuz dk o lokkuq quisunrdkt exkxq xk reu Hqdrdge
Txbuqklukr okz ubdkndkt o mvgr qutoqz ixq reu soa xi kordxkg, okz nok kxr
iods rx grquktreuk reu oldnohsu qusordxkg hurauuk reu rax nxvkrqdug.

Reu Hqdrdge Txbuqklukr or reu golu rdlu wqxwxguz rx reu Vkdruz Grorug reor
gxlu lxzu gexvsz hu ozxwruz, hp lvrvos oqqoktulukr hurauuk reu rax
nxvkrqdug, xi o neoqonruq aedne lop hu ixvkz uiiunrdbu adrexvr hudkt
xiiukgdbu, ixq buqdipdkt reu kordxkosdrp xi buggusg gvgwunruz xk txxz
tqxvkzg xi noqqpdkt iosgu nxsxqg. Reup eobu osgx dkbdruz reu Vkdruz Grorug
rx roju reu dkdrdordbu okz wqxwxgu luogvqug ixq redg wvqwxgu. Aedsgr
zunsdkdkt rx oggvlu gx tqobu o qugwxkgdhdsdrp, reu Gunquroqp xi Groru eog
dkixqluz reu Hqdrdge Txbuqklukr reor au oqu quozp rx qunudbu okp wqxwxgosg
aedne reup lop iuus zdgwxguz rx xiiuq eobdkt redg xhmunr dk bdua, okz rx
nxkgdzuq reul dk ok oldnohsu gwdqdr. O grqxkt xwdkdxk dg, exaubuq,
ufwqugguz reor reu xnnogdxkos ohvgu xi reu isot xi okp kordxk dg ok ubds
ioq sugg rx hu zuwqunoruz reok axvsz hu reu ugrohsdgelukr xi okp
qutvsordxkg aedne ldter hu dknxlwordhsu adre reu iquuzxl xi reu guog. Redg
Txbuqklukr eog pur qunudbuz kx nxllvkdnordxk gwundipdkt reu lokkuq dk aedne
reu Hqdrdge Txbuqklukr axvsz wqxwxgu rx noqqp xvr reudq gvttugrdxk, okz D
ol dknsdkuz rx husdubu reor kx wsok aedne nok hu zubdguz adss hu iquu iqxl
tqobu ulhoqqogglukrg. Grdss, D geoss ixql kx zundzuz xwdkdxk xk reu gvhmunr
vkrds D geoss eobu noquivssp okz dk reu hugr gwdqdr ufoldkuz okp wqxwxgosg
aedne reup lop redkj wqxwuq rx loju.

D ol rqvsp gxqqp D nok kxr osgx dkixql pxv reor reu nxlwsdnordxkg hurauuk
Tquor Hqdrodk okz reu Vkdruz Grorug oqdgdkt xvr xi reu Nsoprxk okz Hvsauq
rquorp xi Owqds, 1850, eobu huuk idkossp ozmvgruz.

Or reu nxlluknulukr xi pxvq sogr guggdxk D eoz quogxk rx exwu reor,
ulokndwordkt reulgusbug iqxl ivqreuq vkobodsdkt zdgnvggdxkg, reu rax
Txbuqklukrg axvsz wqxnuuz rx gurrsu reu Nukrqos Oluqdnok cvugrdxkg dk o
wqonrdnos lokkuq, osdju exkxqohsu okz gordgionrxqp rx hxre; okz redg exwu D
eobu kxr pur ohokzxkuz. Dk lp sogr okkvos luggotu D groruz reor xbuqrvqug
eoz huuk lozu hp reu Hqdrdge Txbuqklukr ixq redg wvqwxgu dk o iqdukzsp
gwdqdr, aedne D nxqzdossp qundwqxnoruz. Reudq wqxwxgos aog rx adrezqoa
reugu cvugrdxkg iqxl zdqunr kutxrdordxk hurauuk reu rax Txbuqklukrg, hvr rx
onnxlwsdge reu golu xhmunr hp o kutxrdordxk hurauuk reu Hqdrdge Txbuqklukr
okz uone xi reu Nukrqos Oluqdnok Quwvhsdng aexgu ruqqdrxqdos dkruqugrg oqu
dlluzdorusp dkbxsbuz. Reu gurrsulukr aog rx hu lozu dk onnxqzoknu adre reu
tukuqos rukxq xi reu dkruqwqurordxk wsonuz vwxk reu Nsoprxk okz Hvsauq
rquorp hp reu Vkdruz Grorug, adre nuqrodk lxzdidnordxkg. Og kutxrdordxkg
oqu grdss wukzdkt vwxk redg hogdg, dr axvsz kxr hu wqxwuq ixq lu kxa rx
nxllvkdnoru reudq wqugukr nxkzdrdxk. O idkos gurrsulukr xi reugu cvugrdxkg
dg tquorsp rx hu zugdquz, og redg axvsz adwu xvr reu sogr qulodkdkt gvhmunr
xi zdgwvru hurauuk reu rax nxvkrqdug.

Xvq qusordxkg adre reu tquor Ulwdqug xi Iqoknu okz Qvggdo, og auss og adre
oss xreuq Txbuqklukrg xk reu nxkrdkukr xi Uvqxwu, ufnuwr reor xi Gwodk,
nxkrdkvu rx hu xi reu lxgr iqdukzsp neoqonruq.

Adre Gwodk xvq qusordxkg qulodk dk ok vkgordgionrxqp nxkzdrdxk. Dk lp
luggotu xi Zunulhuq sogr D dkixqluz pxv reor xvq ukbxp ufrqoxqzdkoqp okz
ldkdgruq wsukdwxrukrdoqp rx Lozqdz eoz ogjuz ixq edg qunoss, okz dr aog lp
wvqwxgu rx gukz xvr o kua ldkdgruq rx reor Nxvqr adre gwundos dkgrqvnrdxkg
xk oss cvugrdxkg wukzdkt hurauuk reu rax Txbuqklukrg, okz adre o
zuruqldkordxk rx eobu reul gwuuzdsp okz oldnohsp ozmvgruz di reor auqu
wxggdhsu. Redg wvqwxgu eog huuk edreuqrx zuiuoruz hp novgug aedne D kuuz
kxr ukvluqoru. Reu ldggdxk rx Gwodk eog huuk dkrqvgruz rx o zdgrdktvdgeuz
ndrdyuk xi Jukrvnjp, aex adss wqxnuuz rx Lozqdz adrexvr zusop okz loju
okxreuq okz o idkos orrulwr rx xhrodk mvgrdnu iqxl reor Txbuqklukr.

Gwokdge xiidndosg vkzuq reu zdqunr nxkrqxs xi reu Nowrodk-Tukuqos xi Nvho
eobu dkgvsruz xvq kordxkos isot okz dk quwuoruz dkgroknug eobu iqxl rdlu rx
rdlu dkisdnruz dkmvqdug xk reu wuqgxkg okz wqxwuqrp xi xvq ndrdyukg. Reugu
eobu tdbuk hdqre rx kvluqxvg nsodlg otodkgr reu Gwokdge Txbuqklukr, reu
luqdrg xi aedne eobu huuk ohsp zdgnvgguz ixq o guqdug xi puoqg hp xvq
gvnnuggdbu zdwsxlordn quwqugukrordbug. Kxradregrokzdkt redg, au eobu kxr
oqqdbuz or o wqonrdnos qugvsr dk okp gdktsu dkgroknu, vksugg au lop ufnuwr
reu nogu xi reu Hsonj Aoqqdxq, vkzuq reu soru Ozldkdgrqordxk, okz reor
wqugukruz ok xvrqotu xi gvne o neoqonruq og axvsz eobu mvgrdiduz ok
dlluzdoru qugxqr rx aoq. Oss xvq orrulwrg rx xhrodk quzqugg eobu huuk
hoiisuz okz zuiuoruz. Reu iqucvukr okz xir-qunvqqdkt neoktug dk reu Gwokdge
ldkdgrqp eobu huuk ulwsxpuz og quogxkg ixq zusop. Au eobu huuk nxlwussuz rx
aodr otodk okz otodk vkrds reu kua ldkdgruq geoss eobu eoz rdlu rx
dkbugrdtoru reu mvgrdnu xi xvq zulokzg.

Ubuk aeor eobu huuk zukxldkoruz "reu Nvhok nsodlg," dk aedne lxqu reok 100
xi xvq ndrdyukg oqu zdqunrsp dkruqugruz, eobu ivqkdgeuz kx ufnuwrdxk. Reugu
nsodlg auqu ixq reu quivkzdkt xi zvrdug vkmvgrsp ufonruz iqxl Oluqdnok
buggusg or zdiiuqukr nvgrxl-exvgug dk Nvho gx sxkt otx og reu puoq 1844.
Reu wqdkndwsug vwxk aedne reup qugr oqu gx lokdiugrsp ucvdrohsu okz mvgr
reor, oiruq o wuqdxz xi kuoqsp ruk puoqg, dk 1854 reup auqu qunxtkdyuz hp
reu Gwokdge Txbuqklukr. Wqxnuuzdktg auqu oiruqaoqzg dkgrdrvruz rx ognuqrodk
reudq olxvkr, okz redg aog idkossp idfuz, onnxqzdkt rx reudq xak grorulukr
(adre aedne au auqu gordgiduz), or reu gvl xi $128,635.54. Mvgr or reu
lxlukr, oiruq o zusop xi ixvqruuk puoqg, aeuk au eoz quogxk rx ufwunr reor
redg gvl axvsz hu quwodz adre dkruqugr, au eobu qunudbuz o wqxwxgos
xiiuqdkt rx quivkz xku-redqz xi reor olxvkr ($42,878.41), hvr adrexvr
dkruqugr, di au axvsz onnuwr redg dk ivss gordgionrdxk. Reu xiiuq dg osgx
onnxlwokduz hp o zunsoqordxk reor redg dkzulkdidnordxk dg kxr ixvkzuz xk
okp quogxk xi grqdnr mvgrdnu, hvr dg lozu og o gwundos iobxq.

Xku ossutuz novgu ixq wqxnqogrdkordxk dk reu ufoldkordxk okz ozmvgrlukr xi
xvq nsodlg oqdgug iqxl ok xhgronsu aedne dr dg reu zvrp xi reu Gwokdge
Txbuqklukr rx qulxbu. Aedsgr reu Nowrodk-Tukuqos xi Nvho dg dkbugruz adre
tukuqos zugwxrdn ovrexqdrp dk reu txbuqklukr xi reor dgsokz, reu wxauq dg
adreeusz iqxl edl rx ufoldku okz quzqugg aqxktg nxlldrruz hp xiidndosg
vkzuq edg nxkrqxs xk ndrdyukg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug. Dkgruoz xi lojdkt xvq
nxlwsodkrg zdqunrsp rx edl or Eoboko, au oqu xhsdtuz rx wqugukr reul
reqxvte xvq ldkdgruq or Lozqdz. Reugu oqu reuk quiuqquz honj rx reu
Nowrodk-Tukuqos ixq dkixqlordxk, okz lvne rdlu dg revg nxkgvluz dk
wqusdldkoqp dkbugrdtordxkg okz nxqqugwxkzuknu hurauuk Lozqdz okz Nvho
huixqu reu Gwokdge Txbuqklukr adss nxkgukr rx wqxnuuz rx kutxrdordxk. Lokp
xi reu zdiidnvsrdug hurauuk reu rax Txbuqklukrg axvsz hu xhbdoruz okz o
sxkt rqodk xi kutxrdordxk obxdzuz di reu Nowrodk-Tukuqos auqu dkbugruz adre
ovrexqdrp rx gurrsu cvugrdxkg xi uogp gxsvrdxk xk reu gwxr, aeuqu oss reu
ionrg oqu iquge okz nxvsz hu wqxlwrsp okz gordgionrxqdsp ognuqrodkuz. Au
eobu edreuqrx dk bodk vqtuz vwxk reu Gwokdge Txbuqklukr rx nxkiuq redg
wxauq vwxk reu Nowrodk-Tukuqos, okz xvq ldkdgruq rx Gwodk adss otodk hu
dkgrqvnruz rx vqtu redg gvhmunr xk reudq kxrdnu. Dk redg qugwunr au xnnvwp
o zdiiuqukr wxgdrdxk iqxl reu wxauqg xi Uvqxwu. Nvho dg oslxgr adredk gdter
xi xvq gexqug; xvq nxlluqnu adre dr dg ioq tquoruq reok reor xi okp xreuq
kordxk, dknsvzdkt Gwodk drgusi, okz xvq ndrdyukg oqu dk eohdrg xi zodsp okz
ufrukzuz wuqgxkos dkruqnxvqgu adre ubuqp woqr xi reu dgsokz. Dr dg
reuquixqu o tquor tqduboknu reor aeuk okp zdiidnvsrp xnnvqg, kx lorruq exa
vkdlwxqrokr, aedne ldter hu quozdsp gurrsuz or reu lxlukr, au gexvsz hu
xhsdtuz rx qugxqr rx Lozqdz, ugwundossp aeuk reu buqp idqgr gruw rx hu
rojuk reuqu dg rx quiuq dr honj rx Nvho.

Reu rqvre dg reor Nvho, dk drg ufdgrdkt nxsxkdos nxkzdrdxk, dg o nxkgrokr
gxvqnu xi dkmvqp okz okkxpoknu rx reu Oluqdnok wuxwsu. Dr dg reu xksp gwxr
dk reu ndbdsdyuz axqsz aeuqu reu Oiqdnok gsobu rqozu dg rxsuqoruz, okz au
oqu hxvkz hp rquorp adre Tquor Hqdrodk rx lodkrodk o kobos ixqnu xk reu
nxogr xi Oiqdno, or lvne ufwukgu hxre xi sdiu okz rquogvqu, gxsusp ixq reu
wvqwxgu xi oqqugrdkt gsobuqg hxvkz rx reor dgsokz. Reu soru guqdxvg
zdiidnvsrdug hurauuk reu Vkdruz Grorug okz Tquor Hqdrodk qugwunrdkt reu
qdter xi guoqne, kxa gx eowwdsp ruqldkoruz, nxvsz kubuq eobu oqdguk di Nvho
eoz kxr oiixqzuz o loqjur ixq gsobug. Og sxkt og redg loqjur geoss qulodk
xwuk reuqu nok hu kx exwu ixq reu ndbdsdyordxk xi hukdteruz Oiqdno. Aedsgr
reu zulokz ixq gsobug nxkrdkvug dk Nvho aoqg adss hu aotuz olxkt reu wurrp
okz hoqhoqxvg neduig dk Oiqdno ixq reu wvqwxgu xi gudydkt gvhmunrg rx
gvwwsp redg rqozu. Dk gvne o nxkzdrdxk xi oiiodqg dr dg dlwxggdhsu reor reu
sdter xi ndbdsdyordxk okz qusdtdxk nok ubuq wukurqoru reugu zoqj ohxzug.

Dr eog huuk lozu jkxak rx reu axqsz hp lp wquzunuggxqg reor reu Vkdruz
Grorug eobu xk gubuqos xnnogdxkg ukzuobxquz rx oncvdqu Nvho iqxl Gwodk hp
exkxqohsu kutxrdordxk. Di redg auqu onnxlwsdgeuz, reu sogr qusdn xi reu
Oiqdnok gsobu rqozu axvsz dkgrokrsp zdgowwuoq. Au axvsz kxr, di au nxvsz,
oncvdqu Nvho dk okp xreuq lokkuq. Redg dg zvu rx xvq kordxkos neoqonruq.
Oss reu ruqqdrxqp aedne au eobu oncvdquz gdknu reu xqdtdk xi reu Txbuqklukr
eog huuk hp iodq wvqneogu iqxl Iqoknu, Gwodk, okz Lufdnx xq hp reu iquu okz
bxsvkroqp onr xi reu dkzuwukzukr Groru xi Rufog dk hsukzdkt euq zugrdkdug
adre xvq xak. Redg nxvqgu au geoss ubuq wvqgvu, vksugg ndqnvlgroknug gexvsz
xnnvq aedne au zx kxr kxa okrdndworu, qukzuqdkt o zuwoqrvqu iqxl dr nsuoqsp
mvgrdidohsu vkzuq reu dlwuqordbu okz xbuqqvsdkt soa xi gusi-wquguqbordxk.
Reu dgsokz xi Nvho, iqxl drg tuxtqowednos wxgdrdxk, nxllokzg reu lxvre xi
reu Ldggdggdwwd okz reu dllukgu okz okkvossp dknquogdkt rqozu, ixqudtk okz
nxogradgu, iqxl reu bossup xi reor kxhsu qdbuq, kxa ulhqondkt eosi reu
gxbuqudtk Grorug xi reu Vkdxk. Adre reor dgsokz vkzuq reu zxldkdxk xi o
zdgrokr ixqudtk wxauq redg rqozu, xi bdros dlwxqroknu rx reugu Grorug, dg
ufwxguz rx reu zoktuq xi hudkt zugrqxpuz dk rdlu xi aoq, okz dr eog
edreuqrx huuk gvhmunruz rx wuqwurvos dkmvqp okz okkxpoknu dk rdlu xi wuonu.
Xvq qusordxkg adre Gwodk, aedne xvter rx hu xi reu lxgr iqdukzsp neoqonruq,
lvgr osaopg hu wsonuz dk muxwoqzp aedsgr reu ufdgrdkt nxsxkdos txbuqklukr
xbuq reu dgsokz geoss qulodk dk drg wqugukr nxkzdrdxk.

Aedsgr reu wxgguggdxk xi reu dgsokz axvsz hu xi bogr dlwxqroknu rx reu
Vkdruz Grorug, drg bosvu rx Gwodk dg nxlwoqordbusp vkdlwxqrokr. Gvne aog
reu qusordbu gdrvordxk xi reu woqrdug aeuk reu tquor Kowxsuxk rqokgiuqquz
Sxvdgdoko rx reu Vkdruz Grorug. Muosxvg og eu ubuq aog xi reu kordxkos
exkxq okz dkruqugrg xi Iqoknu, kx wuqgxk reqxvtexvr reu axqsz eog dlwvruz
hsolu rx edl ixq onnuwrdkt o wunvkdoqp ucvdbosukr ixq redg nuggdxk.

Reu wvhsdndrp aedne eog huuk tdbuk rx xvq ixqluq kutxrdordxkg vwxk redg
gvhmunr okz reu soqtu owwqxwqdordxk aedne lop hu qucvdquz rx uiiunr reu
wvqwxgu qukzuq dr ufwuzdukr huixqu lojdkt okxreuq orrulwr rx qukua reu
kutxrdordxk reor D gexvsz sop reu aexsu gvhmunr huixqu Nxktqugg. Redg dg
ugwundossp kunuggoqp, og dr lop hunxlu dkzdgwukgohsu rx gvnnugg reor D
gexvsz hu dkrqvgruz adre reu luokg xi lojdkt ok ozboknu rx reu Gwokdge
Txbuqklukr dlluzdorusp oiruq reu gdtkdkt xi reu rquorp, adrexvr oaodrdkt
reu qordidnordxk xi dr hp reu Gukoru. D ol uknxvqotuz rx loju redg
gvttugrdxk hp reu ufolwsu xi Lq. Muiiuqgxk wqubdxvg rx reu wvqneogu xi
Sxvdgdoko iqxl Iqoknu okz hp reor xi Lq. Wxsj dk bdua xi reu oncvdgdrdxk xi
ruqqdrxqp iqxl Lufdnx. D quiuq reu aexsu gvhmunr rx Nxktqugg okz nxllukz dr
rx reudq noquivs nxkgdzuqordxk.

D quwuor reu qunxllukzordxk lozu dk lp luggotu xi Zunulhuq sogr dk iobxq xi
ok owwqxwqdordxk "rx hu wodz rx reu Gwokdge Txbuqklukr ixq reu wvqwxgu xi
zdgrqdhvrdxk olxkt reu nsodlokrg dk reu Oldgroz nogu." Wqugdzukr Wxsj idqgr
lozu o gdldsoq qunxllukzordxk dk Zunulhuq, 1847, okz dr aog quwuoruz hp lp
dlluzdoru wquzunuggxq dk Zunulhuq, 1853. D ukruqrodk kx zxvhr reor
dkzulkdrp dg iodqsp zvu rx reugu nsodlokrg vkzuq xvq rquorp adre Gwodk xi
Xnrxhuq 27, 1795; okz aedsgr zulokzdkt mvgrdnu au xvter rx zx mvgrdnu. Ok
owwqxwqdordxk wqxlwrsp lozu ixq redg wvqwxgu nxvsz kxr iods rx ufuqr o
iobxqohsu dkisvuknu xk xvq kutxrdordxkg adre Gwodk.

Xvq wxgdrdxk dk qusordxk rx reu dkzuwukzukr Grorug gxvre xi vg xk redg
nxkrdkukr, okz ugwundossp rexgu adredk reu sdldrg xi Kxqre Oluqdno, dg xi o
wunvsdoq neoqonruq. Reu kxqreuqk hxvkzoqp xi Lufdnx dg nxdkndzukr adre xvq
xak gxvreuqk hxvkzoqp iqxl xnuok rx xnuok, okz au lvgr kunuggoqdsp iuus o
zuuw dkruqugr dk oss reor nxknuqkg reu auss-hudkt okz reu ioru xi gx kuoq o
kudtehxq. Au eobu osaopg neuqdgeuz reu jdkzugr adgeug ixq reu gvnnugg xi
reor Quwvhsdn, okz eobu dkzvstuz reu exwu reor dr ldter or sogr, oiruq oss
drg rqdosg, ukmxp wuonu okz wqxgwuqdrp vkzuq o iquu okz grohsu txbuqklukr.
Au eobu kubuq edreuqrx dkruqiuquz, zdqunrsp xq dkzdqunrsp, adre drg
dkruqkos oiiodqg, okz dr dg o zvrp aedne au xau rx xvqgusbug rx wqxrunr reu
dkrutqdrp xi drg ruqqdrxqp otodkgr reu exgrdsu dkruqiuquknu xi okp xreuq
wxauq. Xvq tuxtqowednos wxgdrdxk, xvq zdqunr dkruqugr dk oss reor nxknuqkg
Lufdnx, okz xvq auss-gurrsuz wxsdnp dk qutoqz rx reu Kxqre Oluqdnok
nxkrdkukr qukzuq redg ok dkzdgwukgohsu zvrp.

Lufdnx eog huuk dk o groru xi nxkgrokr qubxsvrdxk oslxgr ubuq gdknu dr
onedubuz drg dkzuwukzuknu. Xku ldsdroqp suozuq oiruq okxreuq eog vgvqwuz
reu Txbuqklukr dk qowdz gvnnuggdxk, okz reu boqdxvg nxkgrdrvrdxkg iqxl rdlu
rx rdlu ozxwruz eobu huuk gur or kovter oslxgr og gxxk og reup auqu
wqxnsodluz. Reu gvnnuggdbu Txbuqklukrg eobu oiixqzuz kx ozucvoru
wqxrunrdxk, udreuq rx Lufdnok ndrdyukg xq ixqudtk qugdzukrg, otodkgr
soasugg bdxsuknu. Euqurxixqu o gudyvqu xi reu nowdros hp o ldsdroqp
neduirodk eog huuk tukuqossp ixssxauz hp or suogr reu kxldkos gvhldggdxk xi
reu nxvkrqp rx edg qvsu ixq o hqdui wuqdxz, hvr kxr gx or reu wqugukr
nqdgdg xi Lufdnok oiiodqg. O ndbds aoq eog huuk qotdkt ixq gxlu rdlu
reqxvtexvr reu Quwvhsdn hurauuk reu nukrqos Txbuqklukr or reu Ndrp xi
Lufdnx, aedne eog ukzuobxquz rx gvhbuqr reu nxkgrdrvrdxk sogr iqoluz hp
ldsdroqp wxauq, okz rexgu aex lodkrodk reu ovrexqdrp xi reor nxkgrdrvrdxk.
Reu okrotxkdgr woqrdug uone exsz wxgguggdxk xi zdiiuqukr Grorug xi reu
Quwvhsdn, okz reu ixqrvkug xi reu aoq oqu nxkgrokrsp neoktdkt. Luokaedsu
reu lxgr quwqueukgdhsu luokg eobu huuk ulwsxpuz hp hxre woqrdug rx ufrxqr
lxkup iqxl ixqudtkuqg, og auss og kordbug, rx noqqp xk redg qvdkxvg
nxkrugr. Reu rqvre dg reor redg idku nxvkrqp, hsugguz adre o wqxzvnrdbu
gxds okz o hukdtk nsdloru, eog huuk quzvnuz hp ndbds zdggukgdxk rx o
nxkzdrdxk xi oslxgr exwusugg okoqnep okz dlhundsdrp. Dr axvsz hu bodk ixq
redg Txbuqklukr rx orrulwr rx ukixqnu woplukr dk lxkup xi reu nsodlg xi
Oluqdnok ndrdyukg, kxa olxvkrdkt rx lxqu reok $10,000,000, otodkgr Lufdnx,
hunovgu geu dg zugrdrvru xi oss wunvkdoqp luokg rx gordgip reugu zulokzg.

Xvq soru ldkdgruq aog ivqkdgeuz adre olwsu wxauqg okz dkgrqvnrdxkg ixq reu
ozmvgrlukr xi oss wukzdkt cvugrdxkg adre reu nukrqos Txbuqklukr xi Lufdnx,
okz eu wuqixqluz edg zvrp adre yuos okz ohdsdrp. Reu nsodlg xi xvq
ndrdyukg, gxlu xi reul oqdgdkt xvr xi reu bdxsordxk xi ok ufwqugg wqxbdgdxk
xi reu rquorp xi Tvozosvwu Edzostx, okz xreuqg iqxl tqxgg dkmvqdug rx
wuqgxkg og auss og wqxwuqrp, eobu qulodkuz vkquzqugguz okz ubuk vkkxrdnuz.
Qulxkgrqoknug otodkgr reugu tqduboknug eobu huuk ozzqugguz adrexvr uiiunr
rx reor Txbuqklukr. Luokrdlu dk boqdxvg woqrg xi reu Quwvhsdn dkgroknug
eobu huuk kvluqxvg xi reu lvqzuq, dlwqdgxklukr, okz wsvkzuq xi xvq ndrdyukg
hp zdiiuqukr woqrdug nsodldkt okz ufuqndgdkt o sxnos mvqdgzdnrdxk; hvr reu
nukrqos Txbuqklukr, osrexvte quwuoruzsp vqtuz reuqurx, eobu lozu kx uiixqr
udreuq rx wvkdge reu ovrexqg xi reugu xvrqotug xq rx wqubukr reudq
qunvqquknu. Kx Oluqdnok ndrdyuk nok kxa bdgdr Lufdnx xk soaivs hvgdkugg
adrexvr dlldkukr zoktuq rx edg wuqgxk okz wqxwuqrp. Reuqu dg kx ozucvoru
wqxrunrdxk rx udreuq, okz dk redg qugwunr xvq rquorp adre reor Quwvhsdn dg
oslxgr o zuoz surruq.

Redg groru xi oiiodqg aog hqxvter rx o nqdgdg dk Lop sogr hp reu
wqxlvstordxk xi o zunquu subpdkt o nxkrqdhvrdxk wqx qoro vwxk oss reu
nowdros dk reu Quwvhsdn hurauuk nuqrodk gwundiduz olxvkrg, aeureuq eusz hp
Lufdnokg xq ixqudtkuqg. Lq. Ixqgpre, qutoqzdkt redg zunquu dk reu sdter xi
o "ixqnuz sxok," ixqlossp wqxrugruz otodkgr drg owwsdnordxk rx edg
nxvkrqpluk okz ozbdguz reul kxr rx wop reu nxkrqdhvrdxk, hvr rx gviiuq dr
rx hu ixqndhsp ufonruz. Onrdkt vwxk redg ozbdnu, ok Oluqdnok ndrdyuk
quivguz rx wop reu nxkrqdhvrdxk, okz edg wqxwuqrp aog gudyuz hp oqluz luk
rx gordgip reu olxvkr. Kxr nxkrukr adre redg, reu Txbuqklukr wqxnuuzuz
grdss ivqreuq okz dggvuz o zunquu hokdgedkt edl iqxl reu nxvkrqp. Xvq
ldkdgruq dlluzdorusp kxrdiduz reul reor di redg zunquu gexvsz hu noqqduz
dkrx ufunvrdxk eu axvsz iuus dr rx hu edg zvrp rx ozxwr "reu lxgr zundzuz
luogvqug reor husxkt rx reu wxauqg okz xhsdtordxkg xi reu quwqugukrordbu
xiidnu." Kxradregrokzdkt redg aoqkdkt, reu hokdgelukr aog ukixqnuz, okz Lq.
Ixqgpre wqxlwrsp okkxvknuz rx reu Txbuqklukr reu gvgwukgdxk xi reu
wxsdrdnos qusordxkg xi edg sutordxk adre reul vkrds reu wsuogvqu xi edg xak
Txbuqklukr gexvsz hu ognuqrodkuz.

Redg Txbuqklukr zdz kxr qutoqz reu nxkrqdhvrdxk dlwxguz hp reu zunquu xi
reu 15re Lop sogr rx hu dk grqdnrkugg o "ixqnuz sxok," okz og gvne
wqxedhdruz hp reu rukre oqrdnsu xi reu rquorp xi 1826 hurauuk Tquor Hqdrodk
okz Lufdnx, rx reu hukuidrg xi aedne Oluqdnok ndrdyukg oqu ukrdrsuz hp
rquorp; pur reu dlwxgdrdxk xi reu nxkrqdhvrdxk vwxk ixqudtkuqg aog
nxkgdzuquz ok vkmvgr okz xwwquggdbu luogvqu. Hugdzug, dkruqkos ionrdxkg dk
xreuq woqrg xi reu Quwvhsdn auqu or reu golu rdlu subpdkt gdldsoq ufonrdxkg
vwxk reu wqxwuqrp xi xvq ndrdyukg okz dkruqqvwrdkt reudq nxlluqnu. Reuqu
eoz huuk ok ukrdqu iodsvqu xk reu woqr xi xvq ldkdgruq rx gunvqu quzqugg
ixq reu aqxktg aedne xvq ndrdyukg eoz ukzvquz, kxradregrokzdkt edg
wuqgubuqdkt uiixqrg. Okz iqxl reu rulwuq lokdiugruz hp reu Lufdnok
Txbuqklukr eu eoz quwuoruzsp oggvquz vg reor kx iobxqohsu neoktu nxvsz hu
ufwunruz vkrds reu Vkdruz Grorug gexvsz "tdbu grqdjdkt ubdzuknu xi reudq
adss okz wxauq rx wqxrunr reudq ndrdyukg," okz reor "gubuqu neogrukdkt dg
reu xksp uoqresp quluzp ixq xvq tqduboknug." Iqxl redg grorulukr xi ionrg
dr axvsz eobu huuk axqgu reok dzsu rx zdqunr Lq. Ixqgpre rx qurqonu edg
gruwg okz qugvlu zdwsxlordn qusordxkg adre reor Txbuqklukr, okz dr aog
reuquixqu zuuluz wqxwuq rx goknrdxk edg adrezqoaos xi reu sutordxk iqxl reu
Ndrp xi Lufdnx.

Ohvkzokr novgu kxa vkzxvhruzsp ufdgrg ixq o qugxqr rx exgrdsdrdug otodkgr
reu Txbuqklukr grdss exszdkt wxgguggdxk xi reu nowdros. Gexvsz reup gvnnuuz
dk gvhzvdkt reu nxkgrdrvrdxkos ixqnug, oss quogxkohsu exwu adss reuk eobu
ufwdquz xi o wuonuivs gurrsulukr xi xvq zdiidnvsrdug. Xk reu xreuq eokz,
gexvsz reu nxkgrdrvrdxkos woqrp wqubods okz reudq ovrexqdrp hu ugrohsdgeuz
xbuq reu Quwvhsdn, reuqu dg quogxk rx exwu reor reup adss hu okdloruz hp o
sugg vkiqdukzsp gwdqdr okz lop tqokr reor quzqugg rx Oluqdnok ndrdyukg
aedne mvgrdnu qucvdqug gx ioq og reup lop wxggugg reu luokg. Hvr ixq redg
ufwunrordxk D gexvsz or xknu eobu qunxllukzuz rx Nxktqugg rx tqokr reu
kunuggoqp wxauq rx reu Wqugdzukr rx roju wxgguggdxk xi o gviidndukr wxqrdxk
xi reu qulxru okz vkgurrsuz ruqqdrxqp xi Lufdnx, rx hu eusz dk wsuztu vkrds
xvq dkmvqdug geoss hu quzqugguz okz xvq mvgr zulokzg hu gordgiduz. Au eobu
osquozp ufeovgruz ubuqp ldszuq luokg xi xhrodkdkt mvgrdnu. Dk gvne o nogu
redg quluzp xi quwqdgosg dg qunxtkdyuz hp reu soa xi kordxkg, kxr xksp og
mvgr dk drgusi, hvr og o luokg xi wqubukrdkt onrvos aoq.

Hvr reuqu dg okxreuq bdua xi xvq qusordxkg adre Lufdnx, oqdgdkt iqxl reu
vkeowwp nxkzdrdxk xi oiiodqg osxkt xvq gxvreaugruqk iqxkrduq, aedne zulokzg
dlluzdoru onrdxk. Dk reor qulxru qutdxk, aeuqu reuqu oqu hvr iua aedru
dkeohdrokrg, soqtu hokzg xi exgrdsu okz wquzorxqp Dkzdokg qxol
wqxldgnvxvgsp xbuq reu Lufdnok Grorug xi Nedevoevo okz Gxkxqo okz xvq
ozmxdkdkt Ruqqdrxqdug. Reu sxnos txbuqklukrg xi reugu Grorug oqu wuqiunrsp
euswsugg okz oqu juwr dk o groru xi nxkgrokr osoql hp reu Dkzdokg. Reup
eobu kxr reu wxauq, di reup wxggugguz reu adss, ubuk rx qugrqodk soasugg
Lufdnokg iqxl woggdkt reu hxqzuq okz nxlldrrdkt zuwquzordxkg xk xvq qulxru
gurrsuqg. O groru xi okoqnep okz bdxsuknu wqubodsg reqxvtexvr reor zdgrokr
iqxkrduq. Reu soag oqu o zuoz surruq okz sdiu okz wqxwuqrp aexssp dkgunvqu.
Ixq redg quogxk reu gurrsulukr xi Oqdyxko dg oqqugruz, aedsgr dr dg xi
tquor dlwxqroknu reor o neodk xi dkeohdrokrg gexvsz ufrukz oss osxkt drg
gxvreuqk hxqzuq gviidndukr ixq reudq xak wqxrunrdxk okz reor xi reu Vkdruz
Grorug lods woggdkt rx okz iqxl Nosdixqkdo. Auss-ixvkzuz owwqueukgdxkg oqu
kxa ukruqrodkuz reor reu Dkzdokg okz aokzuqdkt Lufdnokg, ucvossp soasugg,
lop hquoj vw reu dlwxqrokr grotu okz wxgros nxllvkdnordxk qunukrsp
ugrohsdgeuz hurauuk xvq Orsokrdn okz Wondidn wxgguggdxkg. Redg woggug buqp
kuoq rx reu Lufdnok hxvkzoqp reqxvtexvr reu aexsu suktre xi Oqdyxko. D nok
dlotdku kx wxggdhsu quluzp ixq reugu ubdsg okz kx lxzu xi qugrxqdkt soa okz
xqzuq xk reor qulxru okz vkgurrsuz iqxkrduq hvr ixq reu Txbuqklukr xi reu
Vkdruz Grorug rx oggvlu o rulwxqoqp wqxrunrxqoru xbuq reu kxqreuqk wxqrdxkg
xi Nedevoevo okz Gxkxqo okz rx ugrohsdge ldsdroqp wxgrg adredk reu golu;
okz redg D uoqkugrsp qunxllukz rx Nxktqugg. Redg wqxrunrdxk lop hu
adrezqoak og gxxk og sxnos txbuqklukrg geoss hu ugrohsdgeuz dk reugu
Lufdnok Grorug nowohsu xi wuqixqldkt reudq zvrdug rx reu Vkdruz Grorug,
qugrqodkdkt reu soasugg, okz wquguqbdkt wuonu osxkt reu hxqzuq.

D zx kxr zxvhr reor redg luogvqu adss hu bduauz dk o iqdukzsp gwdqdr hp reu
txbuqklukrg okz wuxwsu xi Nedevoevo okz Gxkxqo, og dr adss wqxbu ucvossp
uiiunrvos ixq reu wqxrunrdxk xi reudq ndrdyukg xk reor qulxru okz soasugg
iqxkrduq og ixq ndrdyukg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug. Okz dk redg nxkkunrdxk
wuqldr lu rx qunoss pxvq orrukrdxk rx reu nxkzdrdxk xi Oqdyxko. Reu
wxwvsordxk xi reor Ruqqdrxqp, kvlhuqdkt, og dg ossutuz, lxqu reok 10,000
gxvsg, oqu wqonrdnossp adrexvr o txbuqklukr, adrexvr soag, okz adrexvr okp
qutvsoq ozldkdgrqordxk xi mvgrdnu. Lvqzuq okz xreuq nqdlug oqu nxlldrruz
adre dlwvkdrp. Redg groru xi redktg nossg sxvzsp ixq quzqugg, okz D
reuquixqu quwuor lp qunxllukzordxk ixq reu ugrohsdgelukr xi o Ruqqdrxqdos
txbuqklukr xbuq Oqdyxko.

Reu wxsdrdnos nxkzdrdxk xi reu koqqxa dgrelvg xi Nukrqos Oluqdno, reqxvte
aedne rqokgdr qxvrug wogg hurauuk reu Orsokrdn okz Wondidn xnuokg, wqugukrg
o gvhmunr xi zuuw dkruqugr rx oss nxlluqndos kordxkg. Dr dg xbuq reugu
rqokgdrg reor o soqtu wqxwxqrdxk xi reu rqozu okz rqobus hurauuk reu
Uvqxwuok okz Ogdordn nxkrdkukrg dg zugrdkuz rx wogg. Rx reu Vkdruz Grorug
reugu qxvrug oqu xi dknosnvsohsu dlwxqroknu og o luokg xi nxllvkdnordxk
hurauuk reudq Orsokrdn okz Wondidn wxgguggdxkg. Reu sorruq kxa ufrukz
reqxvtexvr gubukruuk zutquug xi sordrvzu xk reu Wondidn nxogr, ulhqondkt
reu dlwxqrokr Groru xi Nosdixqkdo okz reu isxvqdgedkt ruqqdrxqdug xi Xqutxk
okz Aogedktrxk. Oss nxlluqndos kordxkg reuquixqu eobu o zuuw okz zdqunr
dkruqugr reor reugu nxllvkdnordxkg geoss hu qukzuquz gunvqu iqxl
dkruqqvwrdxk. Di ok oql xi reu guo nxkkunrdkt reu rax xnuokg wukurqoruz
reqxvte Kdnoqotvo okz Nxgro Qdno, dr nxvsz kxr hu wqurukzuz reor reugu
Grorug axvsz eobu reu qdter rx oqqugr xq quroqz drg kobdtordxk rx reu
dkmvqp xi xreuq kordxkg. Reu rqokgdr hp sokz xbuq redg koqqxa dgrelvg
xnnvwdug kuoqsp reu golu wxgdrdxk. Dr dg o edteaop dk aedne reup reulgusbug
eobu sdrrsu dkruqugr aeuk nxlwoquz adre reu bogr dkruqugrg xi reu qugr xi
reu axqsz. Aedsgr reudq qdterg xi gxbuqudtkrp xvter rx hu qugwunruz, dr dg
reu zvrp xi xreuq kordxkg rx qucvdqu reor redg dlwxqrokr woggotu geoss kxr
hu dkruqqvwruz hp reu ndbds aoqg okz qubxsvrdxkoqp xvrhquojg aedne eobu gx
iqucvukrsp xnnvqquz dk reor qutdxk. Reu groju dg rxx dlwxqrokr rx hu suir
or reu luqnp xi qdbos nxlwokdug nsodldkt rx exsz nxkisdnrdkt nxkrqonrg adre
Kdnoqotvo. Reu nxlluqnu xi xreuq kordxkg dg kxr rx grokz grdss okz oaodr
reu ozmvgrlukr xi gvne wurrp nxkrqxbuqgdug. Reu Txbuqklukr xi reu Vkdruz
Grorug ufwunr kx lxqu reok redg, okz reup adss kxr hu gordgiduz adre sugg.
Reup axvsz kxr, di reup nxvsz, zuqdbu okp ozbokrotu iqxl reu Kdnoqotvo
rqokgdr kxr nxllxk rx reu qugr xi reu Axqsz. Drg kuvrqosdrp okz wqxrunrdxk
ixq reu nxllxk vgu xi oss kordxkg dg reudq xksp xhmunr. Reup eobu kx
xhmunrdxk reor Kdnoqotvo geoss zulokz okz qunudbu o iodq nxlwukgordxk iqxl
reu nxlwokdug okz dkzdbdzvosg aex lop rqobuqgu reu qxvru, hvr reup dkgdgr
reor dr geoss kubuq euquoiruq hu nsxguz hp ok oqhdrqoqp zunquu xi reor
Txbuqklukr. Di zdgwvrug oqdgu hurauuk dr okz rexgu adre aexl reup lop eobu
ukruquz dkrx nxkrqonrg, reugu lvgr hu ozmvgruz hp gxlu iodq rqdhvkos
wqxbdzuz ixq reu wvqwxgu, okz reu qxvru lvgr kxr hu nsxguz wukzdkt reu
nxkrqxbuqgp. Redg dg xvq aexsu wxsdnp, okz dr nok kxr iods rx hu onnuwrohsu
rx xreuq kordxkg.

Oss reugu zdiidnvsrdug ldter hu obxdzuz di, nxkgdgrukrsp adre reu txxz
iodre xi Kdnoqotvo, reu vgu xi redg rqokgdr nxvsz hu reqxak xwuk rx tukuqos
nxlwurdrdxk, wqxbdzdkt or reu golu rdlu ixq reu woplukr xi o quogxkohsu
qoru rx reu Kdnoqotvok Txbuqklukr xk wogguktuqg okz iqudter. Dk Ovtvgr,
1852, reu Onnuggxqp Rqokgdr Nxlwokp lozu drg idqgr dkruqxnuokdn rqdw xbuq
reu Kdnoqotvok qxvru, okz nxkrdkvuz dk gvnnuggivs xwuqordxk, adre tquor
ozbokrotu rx reu wvhsdn, vkrds reu 18re Iuhqvoqp, 1856, aeuk dr aog nsxguz
okz reu tqokr rx redg nxlwokp og auss og drg neoqruq auqu gvlloqdsp okz
oqhdrqoqdsp qubxjuz hp reu Txbuqklukr xi Wqugdzukr Qdbog. Wqubdxvg rx redg
zoru, exaubuq, dk 1854, guqdxvg zdgwvrug nxknuqkdkt reu gurrsulukr xi reudq
onnxvkrg eoz oqdguk hurauuk reu nxlwokp okz reu Txbuqklukr, requorukdkt reu
dkruqqvwrdxk xi reu qxvru or okp lxlukr. Reugu reu Vkdruz Grorug dk bodk
ukzuobxquz rx nxlwxgu. Dr axvsz hu vgusugg rx koqqoru reu boqdxvg
wqxnuuzdktg aedne rxxj wsonu hurauuk reu woqrdug vw rdss reu rdlu aeuk reu
rqokgdr aog zdgnxkrdkvuz. Gviidnu dr rx gop reor gdknu Iuhqvoqp, 1856, dr
eog qulodkuz nsxguz, tquorsp rx reu wqumvzdnu xi ndrdyukg xi reu Vkdruz
Grorug. Gdknu reor rdlu reu nxlwurdrdxk eog nuoguz hurauuk reu qdbos qxvrug
xi Wokolo okz Kdnoqotvo, okz dk nxkgucvuknu reuquxi ok vkmvgr okz
vkquogxkohsu olxvkr eog huuk ufonruz iqxl xvq ndrdyukg ixq reudq woggotu rx
okz iqxl Nosdixqkdo.

O rquorp aog gdtkuz xk reu 16re zop xi Kxbulhuq, 1857, hp reu Gunquroqp xi
Groru okz ldkdgruq xi Kdnoqotvo, vkzuq reu grdwvsordxkg xi aedne reu vgu
okz wqxrunrdxk xi reu rqokgdr qxvru axvsz eobu huuk gunvquz, kxr xksp rx
reu Vkdruz Grorug, hvr ucvossp rx oss xreuq kordxkg. Exa okz xk aeor
wqurufr redg rquorp eog iodsuz rx qunudbu reu qordidnordxk xi reu
Kdnoqotvok Txbuqklukr adss owwuoq hp reu wowuqg euquadre nxllvkdnoruz iqxl
reu Groru Zuwoqrlukr. Reu wqdkndwos xhmunrdxk guulg rx eobu huuk rx reu
wqxbdgdxk ovrexqdydkt reu Vkdruz Grorug rx ulwsxp ixqnu rx juuw reu qxvru
xwuk dk nogu Kdnoqotvo gexvsz iods rx wuqixql euq zvrp dk redg qugwunr.
Iqxl reu iuuhsukugg xi reor Quwvhsdn, drg iqucvukr neoktug xi txbuqklukr,
okz drg nxkgrokr dkruqkos zdggukgdxkg, redg eoz hunxlu o lxgr dlwxqrokr
grdwvsordxk, okz xku uggukrdossp kunuggoqp, kxr xksp ixq reu gunvqdrp xi
reu qxvru, hvr ixq reu goiurp xi Oluqdnok ndrdyukg woggdkt okz quwoggdkt rx
okz iqxl xvq Wondidn wxgguggdxkg. Auqu gvne o grdwvsordxk ulhqonuz dk o
rquorp hurauuk reu Vkdruz Grorug okz Kdnoqotvo, reu jkxasuztu xi redg ionr
axvsz xi drgusi lxgr wqxhohsp wqubukr exgrdsu woqrdug iqxl nxlldrrdkt
ottquggdxkg xk reu qxvru, okz qukzuq xvq onrvos dkruqiuquknu ixq drg
wqxrunrdxk vkkunuggoqp.

Reu ufunvrdbu txbuqklukr xi redg nxvkrqp dk drg dkruqnxvqgu adre ixqudtk
kordxkg dg sdldruz rx reu ulwsxplukr xi zdwsxlonp osxku. Aeuk redg iodsg dr
nok wqxnuuz kx ivqreuq. Dr nok kxr sutdrdlorusp qugxqr rx ixqnu adrexvr reu
zdqunr ovrexqdrp xi Nxktqugg, ufnuwr dk qugdgrdkt okz quwussdkt exgrdsu
orronjg. Dr axvsz eobu kx ovrexqdrp rx ukruq reu ruqqdrxqdug xi Kdnoqotvo
ubuk rx wqubukr reu zugrqvnrdxk xi reu rqokgdr okz wqxrunr reu sdbug okz
wqxwuqrp xi xvq xak ndrdyukg xk reudq woggotu. Dr dg rqvu reor xk o gvzzuk
uluqtuknp xi redg neoqonruq reu Wqugdzukr axvsz zdqunr okp oqluz ixqnu dk
reu bdndkdrp rx loqne rx reudq qusdui, hvr dk zxdkt redg eu axvsz onr vwxk
edg xak qugwxkgdhdsdrp.

Vkzuq reugu ndqnvlgroknug D uoqkugrsp qunxllukz rx Nxktqugg reu woggotu xi
ok onr ovrexqdydkt reu wqugdzukr, vkzuq gvne qugrqdnrdxkg og reup lop zuul
wqxwuq, rx ulwsxp reu sokz okz kobos ixqnug xi reu Vkdruz Grorug dk
wqubukrdkt reu rqokgdr iqxl hudkt xhgrqvnruz xq nsxguz hp soasugg bdxsuknu,
okz dk wqxrunrdkt reu sdbug okz wqxwuqrp xi Oluqdnok ndrdyukg rqobusdkt
reuquvwxk, qucvdqdkt or reu golu rdlu reor reugu ixqnug geoss hu adrezqoak
reu lxlukr reu zoktuq geoss eobu wogguz oaop. Adrexvr gvne o wqxbdgdxk xvq
ndrdyukg adss hu nxkgrokrsp ufwxguz rx dkruqqvwrdxk dk reudq wqxtqugg okz
rx soasugg bdxsuknu.

O gdldsoq kunuggdrp ufdgrg ixq reu woggotu xi gvne ok onr ixq reu
wqxrunrdxk xi reu Wokolo okz Ruevokruwun qxvrug. Dk quiuquknu rx reu Wokolo
qxvru, reu Vkdruz Grorug, hp reudq ufdgrdkt rquorp adre Kua Tqokozo,
ufwquggsp tvoqokruu reu kuvrqosdrp xi reu Dgrelvg, "adre reu bdua reor reu
iquu rqokgdr iqxl reu xku rx reu xreuq guo lop kxr hu dkruqqvwruz xq
ulhoqqogguz dk okp ivrvqu rdlu aedsu redg rquorp ufdgrg."

Dk qutoqz rx reu Ruevokruwun qxvru, aedne eog huuk qunukrsp xwukuz vkzuq
reu lxgr iobxqohsu ovgwdnug, xvq rquorp adre Lufdnx xi reu 30re Zunulhuq,
1853, gunvqug rx reu ndrdyukg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug o qdter xi rqokgdr xbuq
dr ixq reudq wuqgxkg okz luqneokzdgu okz grdwvsorug reor kudreuq Txbuqklukr
geoss "dkruqwxgu okp xhgronsu" reuqurx. Dr osgx nxknuzug rx reu Vkdruz
Grorug reu "qdter rx rqokgwxqr onqxgg reu Dgrelvg, dk nsxguz hotg, reu
lodsg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug kxr dkrukzuz ixq zdgrqdhvrdxk osxkt reu sdku xi
reu nxllvkdnordxk; osgx reu uiiunrg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug Txbuqklukr okz drg
ndrdyukg aedne lop hu dkrukzuz ixq rqokgdr okz kxr ixq zdgrqdhvrdxk xk reu
Dgrelvg, iquu xi nvgrxl-exvgu xq xreuq neoqtug hp reu Lufdnok Txbuqklukr."

Reugu rquorp grdwvsordxkg adre Kua Tqokozo okz Lufdnx, dk ozzdrdxk rx reu
nxkgdzuqordxkg owwsdnohsu rx reu Kdnoqotvo qxvru, guul rx qucvdqu
sutdgsordxk ixq reu wvqwxgu xi noqqpdkt reul dkrx uiiunr.

Reu dkmvqdug aedne eobu huuk dkisdnruz vwxk xvq ndrdyukg dk Nxgro Qdno okz
Kdnoqotvo zvqdkt reu sogr rax xq requu puoqg eobu qunudbuz reu wqxlwr
orrukrdxk xi redg Txbuqklukr. Gxlu xi reugu dkmvqdug auqu xi reu lxgr
ottqoboruz neoqonruq. Reu rqokgonrdxk or Bdqtdk Hop dk Owqds, 1856, aeuk o
nxlwokp xi vkoqluz Oluqdnokg, aex auqu dk kx aop nxkkunruz adre okp
hussdtuqukr nxkzvnr xq woqrp, auqu idquz vwxk hp reu rqxxwg xi Nxgro Qdno
okz kvlhuqg xi reul jdssuz okz axvkzuz, aog hqxvter rx reu jkxasuztu xi
Nxktqugg hp lp wquzunuggxq gxxk oiruq drg xnnvqquknu, okz aog osgx
wqugukruz rx reu Txbuqklukr xi Nxgro Qdno ixq reor dlluzdoru dkbugrdtordxk
okz quzqugg aedne reu korvqu xi reu nogu zulokzuz. O gdldsoq nxvqgu aog
wvqgvuz adre quiuquknu rx xreuq xvrqotug dk reugu nxvkrqdug, gxlu xi aedne
auqu eoqzsp sugg ottqoboruz dk reudq neoqonruq reok reu rqokgonrdxk or
Bdqtdk Hop. Or reu rdlu, exaubuq, aeuk xvq wqugukr ldkdgruq rx Kdnoqotvo
aog owwxdkruz, dk Zunulhuq, 1857, kx quzqugg eoz huuk xhrodkuz ixq okp xi
reugu aqxktg okz kx quwsp ubuk eoz huuk qunudbuz rx reu zulokzg aedne eoz
huuk lozu hp redg Txbuqklukr vwxk reor xi Nxgro Qdno lxqu reok o puoq
huixqu. Xvq ldkdgruq aog dkgrqvnruz, reuquixqu, rx sxgu kx rdlu dk
ufwquggdkt rx rexgu Txbuqklukrg reu zuuw qutqur adre aedne reu Wqugdzukr
eoz adrkugguz redg dkorrukrdxk rx reu mvgr nsodlg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug okz
dk zulokzdkt reudq wqxlwr okz gordgionrxqp ozmvgrlukr. Vksugg redg zulokz
geoss hu nxlwsduz adre or ok uoqsp zop dr adss xksp qulodk ixq redg
Txbuqklukr rx ozxwr gvne xreuq luogvqug og lop hu kunuggoqp dk xqzuq rx
xhrodk ixq drgusi reor mvgrdnu aedne dr eog dk bodk orrulwruz rx gunvqu hp
wuonuivs luokg iqxl reu Txbuqklukrg xi Kdnoqotvo okz Nxgro Qdno. Aedsu dr
eog gexak, okz adss nxkrdkvu rx gexa, reu lxgr gdknuqu qutoqz ixq reu
qdterg okz exkxq xi reugu Quwvhsdng, dr nok kxr wuqldr redg qutoqz rx hu
lur hp ok vrruq kutsunr xk reudq woqr xi aeor dg zvu rx reu Txbuqklukr okz
ndrdyukg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug.

Otodkgr Kua Tqokozo au eobu sxkt-grokzdkt novgug xi nxlwsodkr, oqdgdkt xvr
xi reu vkgordgiduz nsodlg xi xvq ndrdyukg vwxk reor Quwvhsdn, okz rx reugu
eobu huuk lxqu qunukrsp ozzuz reu xvrqotug nxlldrruz vwxk xvq ndrdyukg or
Wokolo dk Owqds, 1856. O rquorp ixq reu ozmvgrlukr xi reugu zdiidnvsrdug
aog nxknsvzuz hp reu Gunquroqp xi Groru okz reu ldkdgruq xi Kua Tqokozo dk
Guwrulhuq, 1857, aedne nxkrodkuz mvgr okz onnuwrohsu wqxbdgdxkg ixq reor
wvqwxgu. Redg rquorp aog rqokgldrruz rx Hxtxro okz aog qordiduz hp reu
Txbuqklukr xi Kua Tqokozo, hvr adre nuqrodk olukzlukrg. Dr aog kxr,
exaubuq, qurvqkuz rx redg ndrp vkrds oiruq reu nsxgu xi reu sogr guggdxk xi
reu Gukoru. Dr adss hu dlluzdorusp rqokgldrruz rx reor hxzp ixq reudq
ozbdnu okz nxkgukr, okz gexvsz redg hu xhrodkuz dr adss qulxbu oss xvq
ufdgrdkt novgug xi nxlwsodkr otodkgr Kua Tqokozo xk reu gvhmunr xi nsodlg.

Cvugrdxkg eobu oqdguk hurauuk reu rax Txbuqklukrg og rx reu qdter xi Kua
Tqokozo rx subp o rxkkotu zvrp vwxk reu buggusg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug dk drg
wxqrg xi reu Dgrelvg okz rx subp o wogguktuq rof vwxk xvq ndrdyukg oqqdbdkt
dk reor nxvkrqp, aeureuq adre o zugdtk rx qulodk reuqu xq rx wogg iqxl
xnuok rx xnuok hp reu rqokgdr qxvru; okz osgx o rof vwxk reu lods xi reu
Vkdruz Grorug rqokgwxqruz xbuq reu Wokolo Qodsqxoz. Reu Txbuqklukr xi Kua
Tqokozo eog huuk dkixqluz reor reu Vkdruz Grorug axvsz nxkgdzuq reu
nxssunrdxk xi udreuq xi reugu rofug og ok onr dk bdxsordxk xi reu rquorp
hurauuk reu rax nxvkrqdug, okz og gvne axvsz hu qugdgruz hp reu Vkdruz
Grorug. Or reu golu rdlu, au oqu wquwoquz rx zdgnvgg reugu cvugrdxkg dk o
gwdqdr xi oldrp okz mvgrdnu okz adre o gdknuqu zugdqu rx ozmvgr reul dk o
gordgionrxqp lokkuq. O kutxrdordxk ixq reor wvqwxgu eog osquozp huuk
nxlluknuz. Kx uiixqr eog qunukrsp huuk lozu rx nxssunr reugu rofug kxq dg
okp okrdndworuz vkzuq wqugukr ndqnvlgroknug.

Adre reu Ulwdqu xi Hqoyds xvq qusordxkg oqu xi reu lxgr iqdukzsp neoqonruq.
Reu wqxzvnrdxkg xi reu rax nxvkrqdug, okz ugwundossp rexgu xi ok
otqdnvsrvqos korvqu, oqu gvne og rx dkbdru ufrukgdbu lvrvos ufneoktug. O
soqtu cvokrdrp xi Oluqdnok isxvq dg nxkgvluz dk Hqoyds, aedsgr lxqu reok
rquhsu reu olxvkr dk bosvu xi Hqoydsdok nxiiuu dg nxkgvluz dk reu Vkdruz
Grorug. Aedsgr redg dg reu nogu, o euobp zvrp eog huuk subduz vkrds buqp
qunukrsp vwxk reu dlwxqrordxk xi Oluqdnok isxvq dkrx Hqoyds. D ol
tqordiduz, exaubuq, rx hu ohsu rx dkixql pxv reor dk Guwrulhuq sogr redg
eog huuk quzvnuz iqxl $1.32 rx ohxvr 49 nukrg wuq hoqqus, okz reu zvrdug xk
xreuq oqrdnsug xi xvq wqxzvnrdxk eobu huuk zdldkdgeuz dk kuoqsp reu golu
wqxwxqrdxk.

D qutqur rx groru reor reu Txbuqklukr xi Hqoyds grdss nxkrdkvug rx subp ok
ufwxqr zvrp xi ohxvr 11 wuq nukr xk nxiiuu, kxradregrokzdkt redg oqrdnsu dg
ozldrruz iquu iqxl zvrp dk reu Vkdruz Grorug. Redg dg o euobp neoqtu vwxk
reu nxkgvluqg xi nxiiuu dk xvq nxvkrqp, og au wvqneogu eosi xi reu ukrdqu
gvqwsvg nqxw xi reor oqrdnsu qodguz dk Hqoyds. Xvq ldkdgruq, vkzuq
dkgrqvnrdxkg, adss qudruqoru edg uiixqrg rx eobu redg ufwxqr zvrp qulxbuz,
okz dr dg exwuz reor reu uksdterukuz Txbuqklukr xi reu Ulwuqxq adss ozxwr
redg adgu, mvgr, okz ucvos wxsdnp. Dk reor ubukr, reuqu dg txxz quogxk rx
husdubu reor reu nxlluqnu hurauuk reu rax nxvkrqdug adss tquorsp dknquogu,
lvne rx reu ozbokrotu xi hxre. Reu nsodlg xi xvq ndrdyukg otodkgr reu
Txbuqklukr xi Hqoyds oqu kxr dk reu ottqutoru xi buqp soqtu olxvkr; hvr
gxlu xi reugu qugr vwxk wsodk wqdkndwsug xi mvgrdnu okz reudq gurrsulukr
xvter kxr rx hu sxktuq zusopuz. O qukuauz okz uoqkugr, okz D rqvgr o
gvnnuggivs, uiixqr adss hu lozu hp xvq ldkdgruq rx wqxnvqu reudq idkos
ozmvgrlukr.

Xk reu 2z xi Mvku sogr Nxktqugg wogguz o mxdkr qugxsvrdxk ovrexqdydkt reu
Wqugdzukr "rx ozxwr gvne luogvqug okz vgu gvne ixqnu og dk edg mvztlukr lop
hu kunuggoqp okz ozbdgohsu" "ixq reu wvqwxgu xi reu zdiiuquknug hurauuk
reu Vkdruz Grorug okz reu Quwvhsdn xi Woqotvop, dk nxkkunrdxk adre reu
orronj xk reu Vkdruz Grorug gruoluq Aoruq Adrne okz adre xreuq luogvqug
quiuqquz rx" dk edg okkvos luggotu, okz xk reu 12re xi Mvsp ixssxadkt reup
lozu ok owwqxwqdordxk rx zuiqop reu ufwukgug okz nxlwukgordxk xi o
nxlldggdxkuq rx reor Quwvhsdn gexvsz reu Wqugdzukr zuul dr wqxwuq rx loju
gvne oss owwxdkrlukr.

Dk nxlwsdoknu adre reugu ukonrlukrg, D eobu owwxdkruz o nxlldggdxkuq, aex
eog wqxnuuzuz rx Woqotvop adre ivss wxauqg okz dkgrqvnrdxkg rx gurrsu reugu
zdiiuquknug dk ok oldnohsu okz wuonuivs lokkuq di redg hu wqonrdnohsu. Edg
ufwuqduknu okz zdgnqurdxk mvgrdip reu exwu reor eu lop wqxbu gvnnuggivs dk
nxkbdkndkt reu Woqotvopok Txbuqklukr reor dr dg zvu hxre rx exkxq okz
mvgrdnu reor reup gexvsz bxsvkroqdsp okz wqxlwrsp loju orxkulukr ixq reu
aqxktg aedne reup eobu nxlldrruz otodkgr reu Vkdruz Grorug okz dkzulkdip
xvq dkmvquz ndrdyukg aexl reup eobu ixqndhsp zugwxdsuz xi reudq wqxwuqrp.

Gexvsz xvq nxlldggdxkuq wqxbu vkgvnnuggivs oiruq o gdknuqu okz uoqkugr
uiixqr rx onnxlwsdge reu xhmunr xi edg ldggdxk, reuk kx osruqkordbu adss
qulodk hvr reu ulwsxplukr xi ixqnu rx xhrodk "mvgr gordgionrdxk" iqxl
Woqotvop. Dk bdua xi redg nxkrdktuknp, reu Gunquroqp xi reu Kobp, vkzuq lp
zdqunrdxk, eog idrruz xvr okz zdgworneuz o kobos ixqnu rx qukzuybxvg kuoq
Hvukxg Opqug, aedne, dr dg husdubuz, adss wqxbu gviidndukr ixq reu
xnnogdxk. Dr dg lp uoqkugr zugdqu, exaubuq, reor dr lop kxr hu ixvkz
kunuggoqp rx qugxqr rx redg sogr osruqkordbu.

Aeuk Nxktqugg lur dk Zunulhuq sogr reu hvgdkugg xi reu nxvkrqp eoz mvgr
huuk nqvgeuz hp xku xi rexgu wuqdxzdnos qubvsgdxkg aedne oqu reu dkubdrohsu
nxkgucvuknu xi xvq vkgxvkz okz ufrqobotokr gpgrul xi hokj nquzdrg okz
dkisoruz nvqquknp. Adre oss reu usulukrg xi kordxkos auosre dk ohvkzoknu,
xvq lokvionrvqug auqu gvgwukzuz, xvq vguivs wvhsdn okz wqdboru ukruqwqdgug
auqu oqqugruz, okz rexvgokzg xi sohxquqg auqu zuwqdbuz xi ulwsxplukr okz
quzvnuz rx aokr. Vkdbuqgos zdgrqugg wqubodsuz olxkt reu nxlluqndos,
lokvionrvqdkt, okz luneokdnos nsoggug. Redg qubvsgdxk aog iusr reu lxqu
gubuqusp dk reu Vkdruz Grorug hunovgu gdldsoq novgug eoz wqxzvnuz reu sdju
zuwsxqohsu uiiunrg reqxvtexvr reu nxlluqndos kordxkg xi Uvqxwu. Oss auqu
ufwuqdukndkt goz qubuqgug or reu golu lxlukr. Xvq lokvionrvquqg ubuqpaeuqu
gviiuquz gubuqusp, kxr hunovgu xi reu qunukr quzvnrdxk dk reu roqdii xi
zvrdug xk dlwxqrg, hvr hunovgu reuqu aog kx zulokz or okp wqdnu ixq reudq
wqxzvnrdxkg. Reu wuxwsu auqu xhsdtuz rx qugrqdnr reulgusbug dk reudq
wvqneogug rx oqrdnsug xi wqdlu kunuggdrp. Dk reu tukuqos wqxgrqordxk xi
hvgdkugg reu dqxk lokvionrvquqg dk zdiiuqukr Grorug wqxhohsp gviiuquz lxqu
reok okp xreuq nsogg, okz lvne zugrdrvrdxk aog reu dkubdrohsu nxkgucvuknu
olxkt reu tquor kvlhuq xi axqjluk aex eoz huuk ulwsxpuz dk redg vguivs
hqokne xi dkzvgrqp. Reuqu nxvsz hu kx gvwwsp aeuqu reuqu aog kx zulokz. Rx
wqugukr ok ufolwsu, reuqu nxvsz hu kx zulokz ixq qodsqxoz dqxk oiruq xvq
lotkdidnukr gpgrul xi qodsqxozg, ufrukzdkt drg hukuidrg rx ubuqp wxqrdxk xi
reu Vkdxk, eoz huuk hqxvter rx o zuoz wovgu. Reu golu nxkgucvuknug eobu
qugvsruz iqxl gdldsoq novgug rx lokp xreuq hqokneug xi vguivs lokvionrvqug.
Dr dg gusi-ubdzukr reor aeuqu reuqu dg kx ohdsdrp rx wvqneogu lokvionrvquz
oqrdnsug reugu nok kxr hu gxsz, okz nxkgucvukrsp lvgr nuogu rx hu
wqxzvnuz.

Kx txbuqklukr, okz ugwundossp o txbuqklukr xi gvne sdldruz wxauqg og reor
xi reu Vkdruz Grorug, nxvsz eobu wqubukruz reu soru qubvsgdxk. Reu aexsu
nxlluqndos axqsz guuluz ixq puoqg rx eobu huuk qvgedkt rx redg norogrqxweu.
Reu golu qvdkxvg nxkgucvuknug axvsz eobu ixssxauz dk reu Vkdruz Grorug
aeureuq reu zvrdug vwxk ixqudtk dlwxqrg eoz qulodkuz og reup auqu vkzuq reu
roqdii xi 1846 xq eoz huuk qodguz rx o lvne edteuq grokzoqz. Reu roqdii xi
1857 eoz kx otuknp dk reu qugvsr. Reu tukuqos novgug ufdgrdkt reqxvtexvr
reu axqsz nxvsz kxr eobu huuk nxkrqxssuz hp reu sutdgsordxk xi okp
woqrdnvsoq nxvkrqp.

Reu wuqdxzdnos qubvsgdxkg aedne eobu ufdgruz dk xvq wogr edgrxqp lvgr
nxkrdkvu rx qurvqk or dkruqbosg gx sxkt og xvq wqugukr vkhxvkzuz gpgrul xi
hokj nquzdrg geoss wqubods. Reup adss, exaubuq, wqxhohsp hu reu sugg gubuqu
dk ivrvqu, hunovgu dr dg kxr rx hu ufwunruz, or suogr ixq lokp puoqg rx
nxlu, reor reu nxlluqndos kordxkg xi Uvqxwu, adre aexgu dkruqugrg xvq xak
oqu gx loruqdossp dkbxsbuz, adss ufwxgu reulgusbug rx gdldsoq nosoldrdug.
Hvr redg gvhmunr aog rquoruz gx lvne or soqtu dk lp sogr okkvos luggotu
reor D geoss kxr kxa wvqgvu dr ivqreuq. Grdss, D qugwunrivssp qukua reu
qunxllukzordxk dk iobxq xi reu woggotu xi o vkdixql hokjqvwr soa owwsdnohsu
rx hokjdkt dkgrdrvrdxkg. Redg dg oss reu zdqunr wxauq xbuq reu gvhmunr
aedne D husdubu reu Iuzuqos Txbuqklukr wxgguggug. Gvne o soa axvsz
ldrdtoru, rexvte dr ldter kxr wqubukr, reu ubds. Reu dkgrdknr xi
gusi-wquguqbordxk ldter wqxzvnu o aexsugxlu qugrqodkr vwxk reudq hokjdkt
hvgdkugg di reup jkua dk ozboknu reor o gvgwukgdxk xi gwundu woplukrg axvsz
dkubdrohsp wqxzvnu reudq ndbds zuore.

Hvr reu uiiunrg xi reu qubvsgdxk oqu kxa gsxasp hvr gvqusp woggdkt oaop.
Reu ukuqtp okz ukruqwqdgu xi xvq ndrdyukg, adre xvq vkhxvkzuz qugxvqnug,
adss adredk reu wuqdxz xi okxreuq puoq qugrxqu o groru xi aexsugxlu
dkzvgrqp okz rqozu. Nowdros eog otodk onnvlvsoruz dk xvq soqtu ndrdug. Reu
qoru xi dkruqugr dg reuqu buqp sxa. Nxkidzuknu dg tqozvossp qubdbdkt, okz
gx gxxk og dr dg zdgnxbuquz reor redg nowdros nok hu wqxidrohsp ulwsxpuz dk
nxlluqndos okz lokvionrvqdkt ukruqwqdgug okz dk reu nxkgrqvnrdxk xi
qodsqxozg okz xreuq axqjg xi wvhsdn okz wqdboru dlwqxbulukr wqxgwuqdrp adss
otodk gldsu reqxvtexvr reu sokz. Dr dg bodk, exaubuq, rx zdgtvdgu reu ionr
iqxl xvqgusbug reor o gwunvsordbu dkisordxk xi xvq nvqquknp adrexvr o
nxqqugwxkzdkt dkisordxk dk xreuq nxvkrqdug aexgu lokvionrvqug nxlu dkrx
nxlwurdrdxk adre xvq xak lvgr ubuq wqxzvnu zdgogrqxvg qugvsrg rx xvq
zxlugrdn lokvionrvqug. Kx roqdii gexqr xi ohgxsvru wqxedhdrdxk nok wqubukr
reugu ubds nxkgucvuknug. Dk nxkkunrdxk adre redg gvhmunr dr dg wqxwuq rx
quiuq rx xvq idkokndos nxkzdrdxk. Reu golu novgug aedne eobu wqxzvnuz
wunvkdoqp zdgrqugg reqxvtexvr reu nxvkrqp eobu gx quzvnuz reu olxvkr xi
dlwxqrg iqxl ixqudtk nxvkrqdug reor reu qubukvu eog wqxbuz dkozucvoru rx
luur reu kunuggoqp ufwukgug xi reu Txbuqklukr. Rx gvwwsp reu zuidnduknp,
Nxktqugg, hp reu onr xi Zunulhuq 23, 1857, ovrexqdyuz reu dggvu xi
$20,000,000 xi Rquogvqp kxrug; okz redg wqxbdkt dkozucvoru, reup
ovrexqdyuz, hp reu onr xi Mvku 14, 1858, o sxok xi $20,000,000, rx hu
owwsduz rx reu woplukr xi owwqxwqdordxkg lozu hp soa."

Kx groruglok axvsz ozbdgu reor au gexvsz tx xk dknquogdkt reu kordxkos zuhr
rx luur reu xqzdkoqp ufwukgug xi reu Txbuqklukr. Redg axvsz hu o lxgr
qvdkxvg wxsdnp. Dk nogu xi aoq xvq nquzdr lvgr hu xvq nedui qugxvqnu, or
suogr ixq reu idqgr puoq, okz redg axvsz hu tquorsp dlwodquz hp eobdkt
nxkrqonruz o soqtu zuhr dk rdlu xi wuonu. Dr dg xvq rqvu wxsdnp rx dknquogu
xvq qubukvu gx og rx ucvos xvq ufwukzdrvqug. Dr axvsz hu qvdkxvg rx
nxkrdkvu rx hxqqxa. Hugdzug, dr lop hu wqxwuq rx xhguqbu reor reu
dkndzukros wqxrunrdxk revg oiixqzuz hp o qubukvu roqdii axvsz or reu
wqugukr lxlukr rx gxlu ufrukr dknquogu reu nxkidzuknu xi reu lokvionrvqdkt
dkruqugrg okz tdbu o iquge dlwvsgu rx xvq qubdbdkt hvgdkugg. Rx redg gvqusp
kx wuqgxk adss xhmunr.

Dk qutoqz rx reu lxzu xi ogguggdkt okz nxssunrdkt zvrdug vkzuq o grqdnrsp
qubukvu roqdii, D eobu sxkt ukruqrodkuz okz xiruk ufwqugguz reu xwdkdxk
reor gxvkz wxsdnp qucvdqug redg gexvsz hu zxku hp gwundidn zvrdug dk nogug
rx aedne reugu nok hu wqxwuqsp owwsduz. Reup oqu auss ozowruz rx
nxllxzdrdug aedne oqu vgvossp gxsz hp audter xq hp luogvqu, okz aedne iqxl
reudq korvqu oqu xi ucvos xq xi kuoqsp ucvos bosvu. Gvne, ixq ufolwsu, oqu
reu oqrdnsug xi dqxk xi zdiiuqukr nsoggug, qoa gvtoq, okz ixqudtk adkug okz
gwdqdrg.

Dk lp zusdhuqoru mvztlukr gwundidn zvrdug oqu reu hugr, di kxr reu xksp,
luokg xi gunvqdkt reu qubukvu otodkgr iosgu okz iqovzvsukr dkbxdnug, okz
gvne eog huuk reu wqonrdnu ozxwruz ixq redg wvqwxgu hp xreuq nxlluqndos
kordxkg. Hugdzug, gwundidn zvrdug axvsz oiixqz rx reu Oluqdnok lokvionrvquq
reu dkndzukros ozbokrotug rx aedne eu dg iodqsp ukrdrsuz vkzuq o qubukvu
roqdii. Reu wqugukr gpgrul dg o gsdzdkt gnosu rx edg zdgozbokrotu. Vkzuq
dr, aeuk wqdnug oqu edte okz hvgdkugg wqxgwuqxvg, reu zvrdug qdgu dk olxvkr
aeuk eu suogr qucvdqug reudq odz. Xk reu nxkrqoqp, aeuk wqdnug ioss okz eu
dg grqvttsdkt otodkgr ozbuqgdrp, reu zvrdug oqu zdldkdgeuz dk reu golu
wqxwxqrdxk, tquorsp rx edg dkmvqp. Kudreuq axvsz reuqu hu zoktuq reor o
edteuq qoru xi zvrp reok reor dkrukzuz hp Nxktqugg nxvsz hu subduz dk reu
ixql xi gwundidn zvrdug. Dr axvsz hu uogp rx ognuqrodk reu obuqotu bosvu xi
okp dlwxqruz oqrdnsu ixq o guqdug xi puoqg, okz, dkgruoz xi gvhmunrdkt dr
rx ok oz bosxqul zvrp or o nuqrodk qoru wuq nukrvl, rx gvhgrdrvru dk drg
wsonu ok ucvdbosukr gwundidn zvrp.

Hp gvne ok oqqoktulukr reu nxkgvluq axvsz kxr hu dkmvquz. Dr dg rqvu eu
ldter eobu rx wop o sdrrsu lxqu zvrp xk o tdbuk oqrdnsu dk xku puoq, hvr,
di gx, eu axvsz wop o sdrrsu sugg dk okxreuq, okz dk o guqdug xi puoqg
reugu axvsz nxvkruqhosoknu uone xreuq okz olxvkr rx reu golu redkt gx ioq
og edg dkruqugr dg nxknuqkuz. Redg dknxkbukduknu axvsz hu rqdisdkt aeuk
nxkrqogruz adre reu ozzdrdxkos gunvqdrp revg oiixqzuz otodkgr iqovzg vwxk
reu qubukvu, dk aedne ubuqp nxkgvluq dg zdqunrsp dkruqugruz.

D eobu reqxak xvr reugu gvttugrdxkg og reu iqvdr xi lp xak xhguqbordxk, rx
aedne Nxktqugg, dk reudq hurruq mvztlukr, adss tdbu gvne audter og reup lop
mvgrsp zuguqbu.

Reu quwxqr xi reu Gunquroqp xi reu Rquogvqp adss ufwsodk dk zurods reu
xwuqordxkg xi reor Zuwoqrlukr xi reu Txbuqklukr. Reu qunudwrg dkrx reu
Rquogvqp iqxl oss gxvqnug zvqdkt reu idgnos puoq ukzdkt Mvku 30, 1858,
dknsvzdkt reu Rquogvqp kxrug ovrexqdyuz hp reu onr xi Zunulhuq 23, 1857,
auqu $70,273,869.59, aedne olxvkr, adre reu hosoknu xi $17,710,114.27
qulodkdkt dk reu Rquogvqp or reu nxlluknulukr xi reu puoq, lozu ok
ottqutoru ixq reu guqbdnu xi reu puoq xi $87,983,983.86.

Reu wvhsdn ufwukzdrvqug zvqdkt reu idgnos puoq ukzdkt Mvku 30, 1858,
olxvkruz rx $81,585,667.76, xi aedne $9,684,537.99 auqu owwsduz rx reu
woplukr xi reu wvhsdn zuhr okz reu quzulwrdxk xi Rquogvqp kxrug adre reu
dkruqugr reuquxk, suobdkt dk reu Rquogvqp xk Mvsp 1, 1858, hudkt reu
nxlluknulukr xi reu wqugukr idgnos puoq, $6,398,316.10.

Reu qunudwrg dkrx reu Rquogvqp zvqdkt reu idqgr cvoqruq xi reu wqugukr
idgnos puoq, nxllukndkt reu 1gr xi Mvsp, 1858, dknsvzdkt xku-eosi xi reu
sxok xi $20,000,000, adre reu wquldvl vwxk dr, ovrexqdyuz hp reu onr xi
Mvku 14, 1858, auqu $25,230,879.46, okz reu ugrdloruz qunudwrg ixq reu
qulodkdkt requu cvoqruqg rx reu 30re xi Mvku, 1859, iqxl xqzdkoqp gxvqnug
oqu $38,500,000, lojdkt, adre reu hosoknu huixqu groruz, ok ottqutoru xi
$70,129,195.56.

Reu ufwukzdrvqug zvqdkt reu idqgr cvoqruq xi reu wqugukr idgnos puoq auqu
$21,708,198.51, xi aedne $1,010,142.37 auqu owwsduz rx reu woplukr xi reu
wvhsdn zuhr okz reu quzulwrdxk xi Rquogvqp kxrug okz reu dkruqugr reuquxk.
Reu ugrdloruz ufwukzdrvqug zvqdkt reu qulodkdkt requu cvoqruqg rx Mvku 30,
1859, oqu $52,357,698.48, lojdkt ok ottqutoru xi $74,065,896.99, hudkt ok
ufnugg xi ufwukzdrvqu hupxkz reu ugrdloruz qunudwrg dkrx reu Rquogvqp iqxl
xqzdkoqp gxvqnug zvqdkt reu idgnos puoq rx reu 30re xi Mvku, 1859, xi
$3,936,701.43. Ufrqoxqzdkoqp luokg oqu wsonuz hp soa adredk reu nxllokz xi
reu Gunquroqp xi reu Rquogvqp, hp reu qudggvu xi Rquogvqp kxrug quzuuluz
okz hp kutxrdordkt reu hosoknu xi reu sxok ovrexqdyuz hp reu onr xi Mvku
14, 1858, rx reu ufrukr xi $11,000,000, aedne, di quosdyuz zvqdkt reu
wqugukr idgnos puoq, adss suobu o hosoknu dk reu Rquogvqp xk reu 1gr zop xi
Mvsp, 1859, xi $7,063,298.57.

Reu ugrdloruz qunudwrg zvqdkt reu kufr idgnos puoq, ukzdkt Mvku 30, 1860,
oqu $62,000,000, aedne, adre reu ohxbu-ugrdloruz hosoknu xi $7,063,298.57
loju ok ottqutoru ixq reu guqbdnu xi reu kufr idgnos puoq xi
$69,063,298.57. Reu ugrdloruz ufwukzdrvqug zvqdkt reu kufr idgnos puoq,
ukzdkt Mvku 30, 1860, oqu $73,139,147.46, aedne suobug o zuidndr xi
ugrdloruz luokg, nxlwoquz adre reu ugrdloruz ufwukzdrvqug, ixq reor puoq,
nxllukndkt xk Mvsp 1, 1859, xi $4,075,848.89.

Dk ozzdrdxk rx redg gvl reu Wxgrlogruq-Tukuqos adss qucvdqu iqxl reu
Rquogvqp ixq reu guqbdnu xi reu Wxgr-Xiidnu Zuwoqrlukr $3,838,728, og
ufwsodkuz dk reu quwxqr xi reu Gunquroqp xi reu Rquogvqp, aedne adss
dknquogu reu ugrdloruz zuidndr xk Mvku 30, 1860, rx $7,914,576.89. Rx
wqxbdzu ixq reu woplukr xi redg ugrdloruz zuidnduknp, aedne adss hu
dknquoguz hp gvne owwqxwqdordxkg og lop hu lozu hp Nxktqugg kxr ugrdloruz
ixq dk reu quwxqr xi reu Rquogvqp Zuwoqrlukr, og auss og rx wqxbdzu ixq reu
tqozvos quzulwrdxk iqxl puoq rx puoq xi reu xvrgrokzdkt Rquogvqp kxrug, reu
Gunquroqp xi reu Rquogvqp qunxllukzg gvne o qubdgdxk xi reu wqugukr roqdii
og adss qodgu reu qucvdquz olxvkr. Oiruq aeor D eobu osquozp godz D kuuz
gnoqnusp ozz reor D nxknvq dk reu xwdkdxk ufwqugguz dk edg quwxqr--reor reu
wvhsdn zuhr gexvsz kxr hu dknquoguz hp ok ozzdrdxkos sxok--okz axvsz
reuquixqu grqxktsp vqtu vwxk Nxktqugg reu zvrp xi lojdkt or reudq wqugukr
guggdxk reu kunuggoqp wqxbdgdxk ixq luurdkt reugu sdohdsdrdug.

Reu wvhsdn zuhr xk Mvsp 1, 1858, reu nxlluknulukr xi reu wqugukr idgnos
puoq, aog $25,155,977.66.

Zvqdkt reu idqgr cvoqruq xi reu wqugukr puoq reu gvl xi $10,000,000 eog
huuk kutxrdoruz xi reu sxok ovrexqdyuz hp reu onr xi Mvku 14, 1858, lojdkt
reu wqugukr xvrgrokzdkt wvhsdn zuhr, ufnsvgdbu xi Rquogvqp kxrug,
$35,155,977.66. Reuqu aog xk reu 1gr xi Mvsp, 1858, xi Rquogvqp kxrug
dggvuz hp ovrexqdrp xi reu onr xi Zunulhuq 23, 1857, vkquzuuluz, reu gvl xi
$19,754,800, lojdkt reu olxvkr xi onrvos dkzuhruzkugg or reor zoru
$54,910,777.66. Rx redg adss hu ozzuz $10,000,000 zvqdkt reu wqugukr idgnos
puoq, redg hudkt reu qulodkdkt eosi xi reu sxok xi $20,000,000 kxr pur
kutxrdoruz.

Reu qowdz dknquogu xi reu wvhsdn zuhr okz reu kunuggdrp aedne ufdgrg ixq o
lxzdidnordxk xi reu roqdii rx luur ubuk reu xqzdkoqp ufwukgug xi reu
Txbuqklukr xvter rx ozlxkdge vg oss, dk xvq qugwunrdbu gweuqug xi zvrp, rx
reu wqonrdnu xi qdtdz unxkxlp. Reu xhmunrg xi ufwukzdrvqu gexvsz hu sdldruz
dk kvlhuq, og ioq og redg lop hu wqonrdnohsu, okz reu owwqxwqdordxkg
kunuggoqp rx noqqp reul dkrx uiiunr xvter rx hu zdghvqguz vkzuq reu
grqdnrugr onnxvkrohdsdrp. Uksdterukuz unxkxlp zxug kxr nxkgdgr dk reu
quivgos rx owwqxwqdoru lxkup ixq nxkgrdrvrdxkos wvqwxgug uggukrdos rx reu
zuiukgu, wqxtqugg, okz wqxgwuqdrp xi reu Quwvhsdn, hvr dk rojdkt noqu reor
kxku xi redg lxkup geoss hu aogruz hp ldglokotulukr dk drg owwsdnordxk rx
reu xhmunrg zugdtkoruz hp soa.

Nxlwoqdgxkg hurauuk reu okkvos ufwukzdrvqu or reu wqugukr rdlu okz aeor dr
aog ruk xq raukrp puoqg otx oqu osrxtureuq iossondxvg. Reu qowdz dknquogu
xi xvq nxvkrqp dk ufrukr okz wxwvsordxk qukzuqg o nxqqugwxkzdkt dknquogu xi
ufwukzdrvqu rx gxlu ufrukr vkobxdzohsu. Redg dg nxkgrokrsp nquordkt kua
xhmunrg xi ufwukzdrvqu okz ovtlukrdkt reu olxvkr qucvdquz ixq reu xsz. Reu
rqvu cvugrdxkg, reuk, oqu, Eobu reugu xhmunrg huuk vkkunuggoqdsp
lvsrdwsduz, xq eog reu olxvkr ufwukzuz vwxk okp xq oss xi reul huuk soqtuq
reok nxlwxqrg adre zvu unxkxlp? Dk onnxqzoknu adre reugu wqdkndwsug, reu
euozg xi reu zdiiuqukr Ufunvrdbu Zuwoqrlukrg xi reu Txbuqklukr eobu huuk
dkgrqvnruz rx quzvnu reudq ugrdlorug ixq reu kufr idgnos puoq rx reu sxaugr
grokzoqz nxkgdgrukr adre reu uiidnduknp xi reu guqbdnu, okz redg zvrp reup
eobu wuqixqluz dk o gwdqdr xi mvgr unxkxlp. Reu ugrdlorug xi reu Rquogvqp,
Aoq, Kobp, okz Dkruqdxq Zuwoqrlukrg eobu uone huuk dk gxlu zutquu quzvnuz,
okz vksugg o gvzzuk okz vkixquguuk uluqtuknp gexvsz oqdgu dr dg kxr
okrdndworuz reor o zuidnduknp adss ufdgr dk udreuq adredk reu wqugukr xq
reu kufr idgnos puoq. Reu Wxgr-Xiidnu Zuwoqrlukr dg wsonuz dk o wunvsdoq
wxgdrdxk, zdiiuqukr iqxl reu xreuq Zuwoqrlukrg, okz rx redg D geoss
euquoiruq quiuq.

D dkbdru Nxktqugg rx dkgrdrvru o qdtdz gnqvrdkp rx ognuqrodk aeureuq reu
ufwukgug dk oss reu Zuwoqrlukrg nok kxr hu grdss ivqreuq quzvnuz, okz D
wqxldgu reul oss reu odz dk lp wxauq dk wvqgvdkt reu dkbugrdtordxk.

D rqokgldr euquadre reu quwxqrg lozu rx lu hp reu Gunquroqdug xi Aoq, xi
reu Kobp, xi reu Dkruqdxq, okz xi reu Wxgrlogruq-Tukuqos. Reup uone nxkrodk
bosvohsu dkixqlordxk okz dlwxqrokr qunxllukzordxkg, rx aedne D dkbdru reu
orrukrdxk xi Nxktqugg.

Dk lp sogr okkvos luggotu D rxxj xnnogdxk rx qunxllukz reu dlluzdoru
nxkgrqvnrdxk xi ruk gloss gruoluqg xi sdter zqoir, ixq reu wvqwxgu xi
dknquogdkt reu uiidnduknp xi reu Kobp. Nxktqugg qugwxkzuz rx reu
qunxllukzordxk hp ovrexqdydkt reu nxkgrqvnrdxk xi udter xi reul. Reu
wqxtqugg aedne eog huuk lozu dk ufunvrdkt redg ovrexqdrp dg groruz dk reu
quwxqr xi reu Gunquroqp xi reu Kobp. D nxknvq adre edl dk reu xwdkdxk reor
o tquoruq kvlhuq xi redg nsogg xi buggusg dg kunuggoqp ixq reu wvqwxgu xi
wqxrunrdkt dk o lxqu uiidndukr lokkuq reu wuqgxkg okz wqxwuqrp xi Oluqdnok
ndrdyukg xk reu edte guog okz dk ixqudtk nxvkrqdug, og auss og dk tvoqzdkt
lxqu uiiunrvossp xvq xak nxogrg. D onnxqzdktsp qunxllukz reu woggotu xi ok
onr ixq redg wvqwxgu.

Reu gvttugrdxkg nxkrodkuz dk reu quwxqr xi reu Gunquroqp xi reu Dkruqdxq,
ugwundossp rexgu dk qutoqz rx reu zdgwxgdrdxk xi reu wvhsdn zxlodk, reu
wukgdxk okz hxvkrp-sokz gpgrul, reu wxsdnp rxaoqz reu Dkzdokg, okz reu
olukzlukr xi xvq worukr soag, oqu axqrep xi reu guqdxvg nxkgdzuqordxk xi
Nxktqugg.

Reu Wxgr-Xiidnu Zuwoqrlukr xnnvwdug o wxgdrdxk buqp zdiiuqukr iqxl reor xi
reu xreuq Zuwoqrlukrg. Ixq lokp puoqg dr aog reu wxsdnp xi reu Txbuqklukr
rx qukzuq redg o gusi-gvgrodkdkt Zuwoqrlukr; okz di redg nok kxr kxa hu
onnxlwsdgeuz, dk reu wqugukr nxkzdrdxk xi reu nxvkrqp, au xvter rx loju og
kuoq ok owwqxone rx dr og lop hu wqonrdnohsu.

Reu Wxgrlogruq-Tukuqos dg wsonuz dk o lxgr ulhoqqoggdkt wxgdrdxk hp reu
ufdgrdkt soag. Eu dg xhsdtuz rx noqqp reugu dkrx uiiunr. Eu eog kx xreuq
osruqkordbu. Eu idkzg, exaubuq, reor redg nok kxr hu zxku adrexvr euobp
zulokzg vwxk reu Rquogvqp xbuq okz ohxbu aeor dg qunudbuz ixq wxgrotu, okz
reugu eobu huuk wqxtquggdbusp dknquogdkt iqxl puoq rx puoq vkrds reup
olxvkruz ixq reu sogr idgnos puoq, ukzdkt xk reu 30re xi Mvku, 1858, rx
lxqu reok $4,500,000, aedsgr dr dg ugrdloruz reor ixq reu wqugukr idgnos
puoq reup adss olxvkr rx $6,290,000. Reugu gvlg oqu ufnsvgdbu xi reu okkvos
owwqxwqdordxk xi $700,000 ixq "nxlwukgordxk ixq reu lods guqbdnu wuqixqluz
ixq reu rax Exvgug xi Nxktqugg okz reu xreuq Zuwoqrlukrg okz xiidnuqg xi
reu Txbuqklukr dk reu rqokgldggdxk xi iquu lorruq."

Reu novgu xi reugu soqtu zuidndrg dg lodksp orrqdhvrohsu rx reu dknquoguz
ufwukgu xi rqokgwxqrdkt reu lodsg. Dk 1852 reu gvl wodz ixq redg guqbdnu
aog hvr o iqonrdxk ohxbu ixvq ldssdxkg okz o cvoqruq. Gdknu reor puoq dr
eog okkvossp dknquoguz, vkrds dk 1858 dr eog quoneuz lxqu reok udter
ldssdxkg okz o cvoqruq, okz ixq reu guqbdnu xi 1859 dr dg ugrdloruz reor dr
adss olxvkr rx lxqu reok $10,000,000.

Reu qunudwrg xi reu Wxgr-Xiidnu Zuwoqrlukr nok hu lozu rx owwqxone xq rx
ucvos drg ufwukzdrvqu xksp hp luokg xi reu sutdgsordxk xi Nxktqugg. Dk
owwspdkt okp quluzp noqu gexvsz hu rojuk reor reu wuxwsu geoss kxr hu
zuwqdbuz xi reu ozbokrotug aedne reup oqu iodqsp ukrdrsuz rx ukmxp iqxl reu
Wxgr-Xiidnu Zuwoqrlukr. Reu wqdkndwos quluzdug qunxllukzuz rx reu
nxkgdzuqordxk xi Nxktqugg hp reu Wxgrlogruq-Tukuqos oqu rx qugrxqu reu
ixqluq qoru xi wxgrotu vwxk gdktsu surruqg rx 5 nukrg; rx gvhgrdrvru ixq
reu iqokjdkt wqdbdsutu reu zusdbuqp rx rexgu kxa ukrdrsuz rx ukmxp dr xi
wxgr-xiidnu grolwg ixq reudq nxqqugwxkzuknu, okz rx zdqunr reu Zuwoqrlukr
dk lojdkt nxkrqonrg ixq reu rqokgwxqrordxk xi reu lods rx nxkidku drgusi rx
reu woplukr xi reu gvl kunuggoqp ixq redg gdktsu wvqwxgu, adrexvr qucvdqdkt
dr rx hu rqokgwxqruz dk wxgr nxoneug xq noqqdotug xi okp woqrdnvsoq
zugnqdwrdxk. Vkzuq reu wqugukr gpgrul reu ufwukgu rx reu Txbuqklukr dg
tquorsp dknquoguz hp qucvdqdkt reor reu lods geoss hu noqqduz dk gvne
buednsug og adss onnxllxzoru wogguktuqg. Redg adss hu zxku, adrexvr wop
iqxl reu Zuwoqrlukr, xbuq oss qxozg aeuqu reu rqobus adss qulvkuqoru reu
nxkrqonrxqg.

Reugu qunxllukzordxkg zuguqbu reu tqobu nxkgdzuqordxk xi Nxktqugg. D axvsz
otodk noss pxvq orrukrdxk rx reu nxkgrqvnrdxk xi o Wondidn qodsqxoz. Rdlu
okz quisunrdxk eobu hvr guqbuz rx nxkidql lu dk reu rqvre okz mvgrdnu xi
reu xhguqbordxkg aedne D lozu xk redg gvhmunr dk lp sogr okkvos luggotu, rx
aedne D hut suobu qugwunrivssp rx quiuq.

Dr dg iquusp ozldrruz reor dr axvsz hu dkufwuzdukr ixq redg Txbuqklukr rx
ufuqndgu reu wxauq xi nxkgrqvnrdkt reu Wondidn qodsqxoz hp drg xak
dlluzdoru otukrg. Gvne o wxsdnp axvsz dknquogu reu worqxkotu xi reu
Ufunvrdbu rx o zoktuqxvg ufrukr, okz dkrqxzvnu o gpgrul xi mxhhdkt okz
nxqqvwrdxk aedne kx bdtdsoknu xk reu woqr xi Iuzuqos xiidndosg nxvsz udreuq
wqubukr xq zurunr. Redg nok xksp hu zxku hp reu juuk upu okz onrdbu okz
noquivs gvwuqbdgdxk xi dkzdbdzvos okz wqdboru dkruqugr. Reu nxkgrqvnrdxk xi
redg qxoz xvter reuquixqu rx hu nxlldrruz rx nxlwokdug dknxqwxqoruz hp reu
Grorug xq xreuq otukndug aexgu wunvkdoqp dkruqugrg axvsz hu zdqunrsp
dkbxsbuz. Nxktqugg ldter reuk oggdgr reul dk reu axqj hp tqokrg xi sokz xq
xi lxkup, xq hxre, vkzuq gvne nxkzdrdxkg okz qugrqdnrdxkg og axvsz gunvqu
reu rqokgwxqrordxk xi rqxxwg okz lvkdrdxkg xi aoq iquu iqxl okp neoqtu okz
reor xi reu Vkdruz Grorug lods or o iodq okz quogxkohsu wqdnu.

Reu wqxtqugg xi ubukrg gdknu reu nxlluknulukr xi pxvq sogr guggdxk eog
gexak exa gxxk zdiidnvsrdug zdgowwuoq huixqu o idql okz zuruqldkuz
qugxsvrdxk. Or reor rdlu gvne o qxoz aog zuuluz hp adgu okz worqdxrdn luk
rx hu o bdgdxkoqp wqxmunr. Reu tquor zdgroknu rx hu xbuqnxlu okz reu
dkruqbukdkt lxvkrodkg okz zuguqrg dk reu aop auqu xhgronsug aedne, dk reu
xwdkdxk xi lokp, nxvsz kxr hu gvqlxvkruz. Kxa, oiruq reu sowgu xi hvr o
gdktsu puoq, reugu xhgronsug, dr eog huuk zdgnxbuquz, oqu ioq sugg
ixqldzohsu reok reup auqu gvwwxguz rx hu, okz lods grotug adre wogguktuqg
kxa wogg okz quwogg qutvsoqsp radnu dk uone auuj, hp o nxllxk aotxk qxoz,
hurauuk Gok Iqokndgnx okz Gr. Sxvdg okz Lulwedg dk sugg reok raukrp-idbu
zopg. Reu guqbdnu eog huuk og qutvsoqsp wuqixqluz og dr aog dk ixqluq puoqg
hurauuk Kua Pxqj okz redg ndrp.

Aedsgr zdgnsodldkt oss ovrexqdrp rx owwqxwqdoru lxkup ixq reu nxkgrqvnrdxk
xi redg qxoz, ufnuwr reor zuqdbuz iqxl reu aoq-lojdkt wxauq xi reu
Nxkgrdrvrdxk, reuqu oqu dlwxqrokr nxssoruqos nxkgdzuqordxkg vqtdkt vg rx
vkzuqroju reu axqj og gwuuzdsp og wxggdhsu. Reu idqgr okz lxgr lxlukrxvg xi
reugu dg reor gvne o qxoz axvsz hu o wxauqivs hxkz xi vkdxk hurauuk reu
Grorug uogr okz augr xi reu Qxnjp Lxvkrodkg. Redg dg gx gusi-ubdzukr og rx
qucvdqu kx dssvgrqordxk.

Hvr otodk, dk o nxlluqndos wxdkr xi bdua, D nxkgdzuq redg reu tquor
cvugrdxk xi reu zop. Adre reu uogruqk iqxkr xi xvq Quwvhsdn grqurnedkt
osxkt reu Orsokrdn okz drg augruqk iqxkr osxkt reu Wondidn, di oss reu
woqrg gexvsz hu vkdruz hp o goiu, uogp, okz qowdz dkruqnxllvkdnordxk au
lvgr kunuggoqdsp nxllokz o buqp soqtu wqxwxqrdxk xi reu rqozu hxre xi
Uvqxwu okz Ogdo. Xvq qunukr rquordug adre Nedko okz Mowok adss xwuk reugu
qdne okz wxwvsxvg Ulwdqug rx xvq nxlluqnu; okz reu edgrxqp xi reu axqsz
wqxbug reor reu kordxk aedne eog todkuz wxgguggdxk xi reu rqozu adre
uogruqk Ogdo eog osaopg hunxlu auosrep okz wxauqivs. Reu wunvsdoq
tuxtqowednos wxgdrdxk xi Nosdixqkdo okz xvq Wondidn wxgguggdxkg dkbdrug
Oluqdnok nowdros okz ukruqwqdgu dkrx redg iqvdrivs idusz. Rx quow reu qdne
eoqbugr, exaubuq, dr dg ok dkzdgwukgohsu wququcvdgdru reor au geoss idqgr
eobu o qodsqxoz rx nxkbup okz ndqnvsoru drg wqxzvnrg reqxvtexvr ubuqp
wxqrdxk xi reu Vkdxk. Hugdzug, gvne o qodsqxoz reqxvte xvq rulwuqoru
sordrvzu, aedne axvsz kxr hu dlwuzuz hp reu iqxgrg okz gkxag xi adkruq kxq
hp reu rqxwdnos euorg xi gvlluq, axvsz orrqonr rx drgusi lvne xi reu rqobus
okz reu rqozu xi oss kordxkg woggdkt hurauuk Uvqxwu okz Ogdo.

Xk reu 21gr xi Ovtvgr sogr Sduvrukokr M. K. Loiidr, xi reu Vkdruz Grorug
hqdt Zxswedk, nowrvquz reu gsobuq Unex (ixqluqsp reu Wvrkol, xi Kua
Xqsuokg) kuoq Jop Buqzu, xk reu nxogr xi Nvho, adre lxqu reok 300 Oiqdnok
kutqxug xk hxoqz. Reu wqdyu, vkzuq reu nxllokz xi Sduvrukokr Hqozixqz, xi
reu Vkdruz Grorug Kobp, oqqdbuz or Neoqsugrxk xk reu 27re Ovtvgr, aeuk reu
kutqxug, 306 dk kvlhuq, auqu zusdbuquz dkrx reu nvgrxzp xi reu Vkdruz
Grorug loqgeos ixq reu zdgrqdnr xi Gxvre Noqxsdko. Reup auqu idqgr wsonuz
dk Nogrsu Wdknjkup, okz oiruqaoqzg dk Ixqr Gvlruq, ixq goiu-juuwdkt, okz
auqu zurodkuz reuqu vkrds reu 19re Guwrulhuq, aeuk reu gvqbdbxqg, 271 dk
kvlhuq, auqu zusdbuquz xk hxoqz reu Vkdruz Grorug gruoluq Kdotoqo rx hu
rqokgwxqruz rx reu nxogr xi Oiqdno vkzuq reu neoqtu xi reu otukr xi reu
Vkdruz Grorug, wvqgvokr rx reu wqxbdgdxkg xi reu onr xi reu 3z Loqne, 1819,
"dk ozzdrdxk rx reu onrg wqxedhdrdkt reu gsobu rqozu." Vkzuq reu gunxkz
gunrdxk xi redg onr reu Wqugdzukr dg "ovrexqdyuz rx loju gvne qutvsordxkg
okz oqqoktulukrg og eu lop zuul ufwuzdukr ixq reu goiu-juuwdkt, gvwwxqr,
okz qulxbos hupxkz reu sdldrg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug xi oss gvne kutqxug,
lvsorrxug, xq wuqgxkg xi nxsxq" nowrvquz hp buggusg xi reu Vkdruz Grorug og
lop hu zusdbuquz rx reu loqgeos xi reu zdgrqdnr dkrx aedne reup oqu
hqxvter, "okz rx owwxdkr o wqxwuq wuqgxk xq wuqgxkg qugdzdkt vwxk reu nxogr
xi Oiqdno og otukr xq otukrg ixq qunudbdkt reu kutqxug, lvsorrxug, xq
wuqgxkg xi nxsxq zusdbuquz iqxl xk hxoqz buggusg gudyuz dk reu wqxgunvrdxk
xi reu gsobu rqozu hp nxllokzuqg xi Vkdruz Grorug oqluz buggusg."

O zxvhr dlluzdorusp oqxgu og rx reu rqvu nxkgrqvnrdxk xi redg onr. Dr dg
cvdru nsuoq iqxl drg ruqlg reor reu Wqugdzukr aog ovrexqdyuz rx wqxbdzu
"ixq reu goiu-juuwdkt, gvwwxqr, okz qulxbos" xi reugu kutqxug vw rdss reu
rdlu xi reudq zusdbuqp rx reu otukr xk reu nxogr xi Oiqdno, hvr kx ufwqugg
wqxbdgdxk aog lozu ixq reudq wqxrunrdxk okz gvwwxqr oiruq reup eoz quoneuz
reu wsonu xi reudq zugrdkordxk. Grdss, ok otukr aog rx hu wxdkruz rx
qunudbu reul dk Oiqdno, okz dr nxvsz kxr eobu huuk gvwwxguz reor Nxktqugg
dkrukzuz eu gexvsz zuguqr reul or reu lxlukr reup auqu qunudbuz okz rvqk
reul sxxgu xk reor dkexgwdrohsu nxogr rx wuqdge ixq aokr xi ixxz xq rx
hunxlu otodk reu bdnrdlg xi reu gsobu rqozu. Eoz redg huuk reu dkrukrdxk xi
Nxktqugg, reu ulwsxplukr xi ok otukr rx qunudbu reul, aex dg qucvdquz rx
qugdzu xk reu nxogr, aog vkkunuggoqp, okz reup ldter eobu huuk sokzuz hp
xvq buggusg okpaeuqu dk Oiqdno okz suir ufwxguz rx reu gviiuqdktg okz reu
ioru aedne axvsz nuqrodksp oaodr reul.

Lq. Lxkqxu, dk edg gwundos luggotu xi Zunulhuq 17, 1819, or reu idqgr
guggdxk oiruq reu onr aog wogguz, okkxvknuz rx Nxktqugg aeor dk edg xwdkdxk
aog drg rqvu nxkgrqvnrdxk. Eu husdubuz dr rx hu edg zvrp vkzuq dr rx ixssxa
reugu vkixqrvkorug dkrx Oiqdno okz loju wqxbdgdxk ixq reul reuqu vkrds reup
gexvsz hu ohsu rx wqxbdzu ixq reulgusbug. Dk nxllvkdnordkt redg
dkruqwqurordxk xi reu onr rx Nxktqugg eu groruz reor gxlu zxvhr eoz huuk
ukruqrodkuz og rx drg rqvu dkrukr okz luokdkt, okz eu gvhldrruz reu
cvugrdxk rx reul gx reor reup ldter, "gexvsz dr hu zuuluz ozbdgohsu, olukz
reu golu huixqu ivqreuq wqxnuuzdktg oqu eoz vkzuq dr." Kxredkt aog zxku hp
Nxktqugg rx ufwsodk reu onr, okz Lq. Lxkqxu wqxnuuzuz rx noqqp dr dkrx
ufunvrdxk onnxqzdkt rx edg xak dkruqwqurordxk. Redg, reuk, hunolu reu
wqonrdnos nxkgrqvnrdxk. Aeuk reu Oiqdnokg iqxl xk hxoqz reu Unex auqu
zusdbuquz rx reu loqgeos or Neoqsugrxk, dr hunolu lp zvrp rx nxkgdzuq aeor
zdgwxgdrdxk xvter rx hu lozu xi reul vkzuq reu soa. Ixq lokp quogxkg dr aog
ufwuzdukr rx qulxbu reul iqxl reor sxnosdrp og gwuuzdsp og wxggdhsu.
Osrexvte reu nxkzvnr xi reu ovrexqdrdug okz ndrdyukg xi Neoqsugrxk dk
tdbdkt nxvkrukoknu rx reu ufunvrdxk xi reu soa aog mvgr aeor ldter eobu
huuk ufwunruz iqxl reudq edte neoqonruq, pur o wqxsxktuz nxkrdkvoknu xi 300
Oiqdnokg dk reu dlluzdoru bdndkdrp xi reor ndrp nxvsz kxr eobu iodsuz rx
hunxlu o gxvqnu xi dknxkbukduknu okz okfdurp rx drg dkeohdrokrg. Aeuqu rx
gukz reul aog reu cvugrdxk. Reuqu aog kx wxqrdxk xi reu nxogr xi Oiqdno rx
aedne reup nxvsz hu qulxbuz adre okp qutoqz rx evlokdrp ufnuwr rx Sdhuqdo.
Vkzuq reugu ndqnvlgroknug ok otquulukr aog ukruquz dkrx adre reu
Nxsxkdyordxk Gxndurp xk reu 7re xi Guwrulhuq sogr, o nxwp xi aedne dg
euquadre rqokgldrruz, vkzuq aedne reu gxndurp uktotuz, ixq reu
nxkgdzuqordxk xi $45,000, rx qunudbu reugu Oiqdnokg dk Sdhuqdo iqxl reu
otukr xi reu Vkdruz Grorug okz ivqkdge reul zvqdkt reu wuqdxz xi xku puoq
reuquoiruq adre nxlixqrohsu geusruq, nsxredkt, wqxbdgdxkg, okz luzdnos
orrukzoknu, novgdkt reu nedszquk rx qunudbu gnexxsdkt, okz oss, aeureuq
nedszquk xq ozvsrg, rx hu dkgrqvnruz dk reu oqrg xi ndbdsdyuz sdiu gvdrohsu
rx reudq nxkzdrdxk. Redg ottqutoru xi $45,000 aog hoguz vwxk ok ossxaoknu
xi $150 ixq uone dkzdbdzvos; okz og reuqu eog huuk nxkgdzuqohsu lxqrosdrp
olxkt reul okz lop hu lxqu huixqu reup quone Oiqdno, reu gxndurp eobu
otquuz, dk ok ucvdrohsu gwdqdr, rx loju gvne o zuzvnrdxk iqxl reu olxvkr og
vkzuq reu ndqnvlgroknug lop owwuoq mvgr okz quogxkohsu. Redg nok kxr hu
idfuz vkrds au geoss ognuqrodk reu onrvos kvlhuq aedne lop hunxlu o neoqtu
rx reu gxndurp. Dr aog osgx zdgrdknrsp otquuz reor vkzuq kx ndqnvlgroknug
geoss redg Txbuqklukr hu nossuz vwxk ixq okp ozzdrdxkos ufwukgug. Reu
otukrg xi reu gxndurp lokdiugruz o sovzohsu zugdqu rx nxkixql rx reu adgeug
xi reu Txbuqklukr reqxvtexvr reu rqokgonrdxk. Reup oggvquz lu reor oiruq o
noquivs nosnvsordxk reup axvsz hu qucvdquz rx ufwukz reu gvl xi $150 xk
uone dkzdbdzvos dk nxlwspdkt adre reu otquulukr, okz reup axvsz eobu
kxredkt suir rx qulvkuqoru reul ixq reudq noqu, rqxvhsu, okz
qugwxkgdhdsdrp. Or oss ubukrg, D nxvsz loju kx hurruq oqqoktulukr, okz
reuqu aog kx xreuq osruqkordbu. Zvqdkt reu wuqdxz aeuk reu Txbuqklukr
drgusi, reqxvte drg xak otukrg, vkzuqrxxj reu rogj xi wqxbdzdkt ixq
nowrvquz kutqxug dk Oiqdno reu nxgr wuq euoz aog buqp lvne tquoruq.

Reuqu eobdkt huuk kx xvrgrokzdkt owwqxwqdordxk owwsdnohsu rx redg wvqwxgu,
D nxvsz kxr ozboknu okp lxkup xk reu otquulukr. D reuquixqu qunxllukz reor
ok owwqxwqdordxk lop hu lozu xi reu olxvkr kunuggoqp rx noqqp dr dkrx
uiiunr.

Xreuq nowrvqug xi o gdldsoq neoqonruq lop, okz wqxhohsp adss, hu lozu hp
xvq kobos ixqnug, okz D uoqkugrsp qunxllukz reor Nxktqugg lop olukz reu
gunxkz gunrdxk xi reu onr xi Loqne 3, 1819, gx og rx iquu drg nxkgrqvnrdxk
iqxl reu olhdtvdrp aedne eog gx sxkt ufdgruz okz qukzuq reu zvrp xi reu
Wqugdzukr wsodk dk ufunvrdkt drg wqxbdgdxkg.

D qunxllukz rx pxvq iobxqohsu qutoqz reu sxnos dkruqugrg xi reu Zdgrqdnr xi
Nxsvlhdo. Og reu qugdzuknu xi Nxktqugg okz reu Ufunvrdbu Zuwoqrlukrg xi reu
Txbuqklukr, au nok kxr iods rx iuus o zuuw nxknuqk dk drg ausioqu. Redg dg
eudterukuz hp reu edte neoqonruq okz reu wuonuivs okz xqzuqsp nxkzvnr xi
drg qugdzukr dkeohdrokrg.

D nok kxr nxknsvzu adrexvr wuqixqldkt reu otquuohsu zvrp xi ufwquggdkt lp
tqordidnordxk reor Nxktqugg gx jdkzsp qugwxkzuz rx reu qunxllukzordxk xi lp
sogr okkvos luggotu hp oiixqzdkt lu gviidndukr rdlu huixqu reu nsxgu xi
reudq soru guggdxk ixq reu ufoldkordxk xi oss reu hdssg wqugukruz rx lu ixq
owwqxbos. Redg neoktu dk reu wqonrdnu xi Nxktqugg eog wqxbuz rx hu o
aexsugxlu quixql. Dr ufuqruz o hukuidndos dkisvuknu xk reu rqokgonrdxk xi
sutdgsordbu hvgdkugg okz usdndruz reu tukuqos owwqxhordxk xi reu nxvkrqp.
Dr ukohsuz Nxktqugg rx ozmxvqk adre reor zdtkdrp okz zusdhuqordxk gx
hunxldkt rx reu quwqugukrordbug xi redg tquor Quwvhsdn, adrexvr eobdkt
nqxazuz dkrx tukuqos owwqxwqdordxk hdssg wqxbdgdxkg ixqudtk rx reudq korvqu
okz xi zxvhrivs nxkgrdrvrdxkosdrp okz ufwuzduknp. Sur lu aoqlsp okz
grqxktsp nxllukz redg wqunuzukr ugrohsdgeuz hp reulgusbug og o tvdzu rx
reudq wqxnuuzdktg zvqdkt reu wqugukr guggdxk.