Fvssrc-Khzhevxd rf ziv Dvxpzv pxw Irjdv rf Bvabvdvxzpzhlvd:

H bvtbvz zipz H kpx xrz rx zihd rkkpdhrx krxtbpzjspzv qrj zipz ziv apdz
qvpb ipd nvvx rxv rf jxpssrqvw abrdavbhzq. Ziv bplptvd rf fhbv pxw whdvpdv
iplv aphxfjssq pffshkzvw rzivbchdv fsrjbhdihxt arbzhrxd rf rjb krjxzbq, pxw
dvbhrjd vgnpbbpddgvxzd qvz wvbpxtv ziv zbpwv rf gpxq rf rjb khzhvd. Njz
xrzchzidzpxwhxt zivdv pwlvbdv khbkjgdzpxkvd, zipz tvxvbps abrdavbhzq cihki
ipd nvvx ivbvzrfrbv dr nrjxzhfjssq nvdzrcvw jarx jd nq ziv Pjzirb rf Pss
Trrw dzhss krxzhxjvd zr kpss frb rjb cpbgvdz tbpzhzjwv. Vdavkhpssq iplv cv
bvpdrx zr bvmrhkv hx ziv vojnvbpxz ipblvdzd cihki iplv splhdisq bvkrgavxdvw
cvss-whbvkzvw hxwjdzbq pxw thlvx zr hz zipz djbv bvcpbw cihki hd lphxsq
drjtiz hx lhdhrxpbq davkjspzhrxd. H kpxxrz, hxwvvw, lhvc chzirjz avkjshpb
dpzhdfpkzhrx ziv vlhwvxkvd pffrbwvw nq ziv apdz dvpdrx rf ziv nvxvfhzd zipz
dabhxt fbrg ziv dzvpwq wvlrzhrx rf ziv ijdnpxwgpx zr ihd irxrbpnsv ajbdjhz.
Xr gvpxd rf hxwhlhwjps krgfrbz hd grbv kvbzphx pxw xr drjbkv rf xpzhrxps
abrdavbhzq hd dr djbv. Xrzihxt kpx krgavxdpzv p avrasv frb p wvavxwvxkv
jarx rzivbd frb ziv nbvpw zivq vpz, pxw zipz kivvbfjs pnjxwpxkv rx cihki
ziv ipaahxvdd rf vlvbqrxv dr gjki wvavxwd hd zr nv srruvw frb xrcivbv chzi
djki djbv bvshpxkv pd hx ziv hxwjdzbq rf ziv ptbhkjszjbhdz pxw ziv nrjxzhvd
rf ziv vpbzi.

Chzi frbvhtx krjxzbhvd rjb bvspzhrxd voihnhz ziv dpgv fplrbpnsv pdavkz
cihki cpd abvdvxzvw hx gq spdz pxxjps gvddptv, pxw pffrbw krxzhxjvw abrrf
rf ziv chdwrg rf ziv apkhfhk, mjdz, pxw frbnvpbhxt arshkq pwrazvw nq ziv
fhbdz Pwghxhdzbpzhrx rf ziv Fvwvbps Trlvbxgvxz pxw ajbdjvw nq hzd
djkkvddrbd. Ziv vozbprbwhxpbq arcvbd lvdzvw hx gv nq px pkz rf Krxtbvdd frb
ziv wvfvxdv rf ziv krjxzbq hx px vgvbtvxkq, krxdhwvbvw dr fpb abrnpnsv pd
zr bvyjhbv zipz ziv Vovkjzhlv dirjsw arddvdd pgasv gvpxd zr gvvz hz, iplv
xrz nvvx vovbzvw. Zivq iplv zivbvfrbv nvvx pzzvxwvw chzi xr rzivb bvdjsz
zipx zr hxkbvpdv, nq ziv krxfhwvxkv zijd bvardvw hx gv, gq rnshtpzhrxd zr
gphxzphx chzi bvshthrjd vopkzxvdd ziv kpbwhxps abhxkhasvd zipz trlvbx rjb
hxzvbkrjbdv chzi rzivb xpzhrxd. Ipaahsq, hx rjb avxwhxt yjvdzhrxd chzi
Tbvpz Nbhzphx, rjz rf cihki zihd jxjdjps tbpxz rf pjzirbhzq pbrdv, xrzihxt
ipd rkkjbbvw zr bvyjhbv hzd vovbzhrx, pxw pd hz hd pnrjz zr bvzjbx zr ziv
Svthdspzjbv H zbjdz zipz xr fjzjbv xvkvddhzq gpq kpss frb hzd vovbkhdv nq
zivg rb hzd wvsvtpzhrx zr pxrzivb Wvapbzgvxz rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz.

Frb ziv dvzzsvgvxz rf rjb xrbzivpdzvbx nrjxwpbq ziv abrardhzhrx abrghdvw nq
Tbvpz Nbhzphx frb p krgghddhrx rf voasrbpzhrx pxw djblvq ipd nvvx bvkvhlvw,
pxw p krjxzvb abrmvkz, hxksjwhxt psdr p abrlhdhrx frb ziv kvbzphx pxw fhxps
pwmjdzgvxz rf ziv shghzd hx whdajzv, hd xrc nvfrbv ziv Nbhzhdi Trlvbxgvxz
frb hzd krxdhwvbpzhrx. P mjdz bvtpbw zr ziv wvshkpzv dzpzv rf zihd yjvdzhrx
pxw p abravb bvdavkz frb ziv xpzjbps hgapzhvxkv rf ziv Dzpzv rf Gphxv, xrz
svdd zipx p krxlhkzhrx zipz ziv xvtrzhpzhrx ipd nvvx psbvpwq abrzbpkzvw
srxtvb zipx hd abjwvxz rx ziv apbz rf vhzivb Trlvbxgvxz, iplv svw gv zr
nvshvlv zipz ziv abvdvxz fplrbpnsv grgvxz dirjsw rx xr pkkrjxz nv djffvbvw
zr apdd chzirjz ajzzhxt ziv yjvdzhrx frbvlvb pz bvdz. H fvvs krxfhwvxz zipz
ziv Trlvbxgvxz rf Ivb Nbhzpxxhk Gpmvdzq chss zpuv ziv dpgv lhvc rf zihd
djnmvkz, pd H pg avbdjpwvw hz hd trlvbxvw nq wvdhbvd vyjpssq dzbrxt pxw
dhxkvbv frb ziv pghkpnsv zvbghxpzhrx rf ziv krxzbrlvbdq.

Zr ziv hxzbhxdhk whffhkjszhvd rf yjvdzhrxd rf nrjxwpbq shxvd, vdavkhpssq
zirdv wvdkbhnvw hx bvthrxd jxrkkjahvw pxw njz apbzhpssq uxrcx, hd zr nv
pwwvw hx rjb krjxzbq ziv vgnpbbpddgvxz xvkvddpbhsq pbhdhxt rjz rf rjb
Krxdzhzjzhrx nq cihki ziv Tvxvbps Trlvbxgvxz hd gpwv ziv rbtpx rf
xvtrzhpzhxt pxw wvkhwhxt jarx ziv apbzhkjspb hxzvbvdzd rf ziv Dzpzvd rx
cirdv fbrxzhvbd zivdv shxvd pbv zr nv zbpkvw. Zr plrhw pxrzivb krxzbrlvbdq
hx cihki p Dzpzv trlvbxgvxz ghtiz bhtizfjssq ksphg zr iplv ivb chdivd
krxdjszvw abvlhrjdsq zr ziv krxksjdhrx rf krxlvxzhrxps pbbpxtvgvxzd
krxkvbxhxt ivb bhtizd rf mjbhdwhkzhrx rb zvbbhzrbq, H iplv zirjtiz hz
xvkvddpbq zr kpss ziv pzzvxzhrx rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz rf Tbvpz Nbhzphx zr
pxrzivb arbzhrx rf rjb krxzvbghxrjd wrghxhrx rf cihki ziv whlhdhrx dzhss
bvgphxd zr nv pwmjdzvw H bvfvb zr ziv shxv fbrg ziv vxzbpxkv rf Spuv
Djavbhrb zr ziv grdz xrbzicvdzvbx arhxz rf ziv Spuv rf ziv Crrwd,
dzhajspzhrxd frb ziv dvzzsvgvxz rf cihki pbv zr nv frjxw hx ziv dvlvxzi
pbzhksv rf ziv zbvpzq rf Tivxz. Ziv krgghddhrxvbd paarhxzvw jxwvb zipz
pbzhksv nq ziv zcr Trlvbxgvxzd iplhxt whffvbvw hx zivhb rahxhrxd, gpwv
dvapbpzv bvarbzd, pkkrbwhxt zr hzd dzhajspzhrxd, jarx ziv arhxzd rf
whdptbvvgvxz, pxw zivdv whffvbvxkvd pbv xrc zr nv djnghzzvw zr ziv
pbnhzbpzhrx rf drgv fbhvxwsq drlvbvhtx rb dzpzv. Ziv whdajzvw arhxzd dirjsw
nv dvzzsvw pxw ziv shxv wvdhtxpzvw nvfrbv ziv Zvbbhzrbhps trlvbxgvxz rf
cihki hz hd rxv rf ziv nrjxwpbhvd zpuvd hzd aspkv hx ziv Jxhrx pd p Dzpzv,
pxw H bvsq jarx ziv krbwhps krravbpzhrx rf ziv Nbhzhdi Trlvbxgvxz zr vffvkz
zipz rnmvkz.

Zivbv hd vlvbq bvpdrx zr nvshvlv zipz whdzjbnpxkvd shuv zirdv cihki spzvsq
pthzpzvw ziv xvhtinrbhxt Nbhzhdi Abrlhxkvd chss xrz ptphx abrlv ziv drjbkvd
rf nrbwvb krxzvxzhrxd rb hxzvbardv rndzpksvd zr ziv krxzhxjpxkv rf zipz
trrw jxwvbdzpxwhxt cihki hz hd ziv gjzjps hxzvbvdz rf Tbvpz Nbhzphx pxw ziv
Jxhzvw Dzpzvd zr abvdvblv pxw gphxzphx.

Chzihx ziv Abrlhxkvd zivgdvslvd zbpxyjhsshzq hd bvdzrbvw, pxw rx rjb
fbrxzhvb zipz ghdtjhwvw dqgapziq hx fplrb rf cipz cpd abvdjgvw zr nv p
tvxvbps vffrbz hx nvipsf rf arajspb bhtizd, pxw cihki hx drgv hxdzpxkvd
ghdsvw p fvc rf rjb grbv hxvoavbhvxkvw khzhevxd, ipd djndhwvw hxzr p
bpzhrxps krxlhkzhrx dzbrxtsq raardvw zr pss hxzvbgvwwshxt chzi ziv hxzvbxps
pffphbd rf rjb xvhtinrbd. Ziv avrasv rf ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd fvvs, pd hz hd
iravw zivq pscpqd chss, p cpbg drshkhzjwv frb ziv djkkvdd rf pss cir pbv
dhxkvbvsq vxwvplrbhxt zr hgabrlv ziv arshzhkps krxwhzhrx rf gpxuhxw. Zihd
tvxvbrjd fvvshxt zivq kivbhdi zrcpbw ziv grdz whdzpxz xpzhrxd, pxw hz cpd
xpzjbps, zivbvfrbv, zipz hz dirjsw nv pcpuvxvw chzi grbv zipx krggrx cpbgzi
hx nvipsf rf zivhb hggvwhpzv xvhtinrbd; njz hz wrvd xrz nvsrxt zr zivhb
kipbpkzvb pd p krggjxhzq zr dvvu ziv tbpzhfhkpzhrx rf zirdv fvvshxtd hx
pkzd cihki lhrspzv zivhb wjzq pd khzhevxd, vxwpxtvb ziv avpkv rf zivhb
krjxzbq, pxw zvxw zr nbhxt jarx hz ziv dzphx rf p lhrspzvw fphzi zrcpbw
frbvhtx xpzhrxd. Hf, evpsrjd zr krxfvb nvxvfhzd rx rzivbd, zivq paavpb frb
p grgvxz zr srdv dhtiz rf ziv avbgpxvxz rnshtpzhrxd hgardvw jarx zivg pd
khzhevxd, zivq pbv dvswrg srxt ghdsvw. Fbrg pss ziv hxfrbgpzhrx H bvkvhlv,
krxfhbgvw zr drgv vozvxz nq avbdrxps rndvblpzhrx, H pg dpzhdfhvw zipz xr
rxv kpx xrc irav zr vxtptv hx djki vxzvbabhdvd chzirjz vxkrjxzvbhxt ajnshk
hxwhtxpzhrx, hx pwwhzhrx zr ziv dvlvbvdz avxpszhvd rf ziv spc.

Bvkvxz hxfrbgpzhrx psdr svpwd gv zr irav zipz ziv vghtbpxzd fbrg Ivb
Gpmvdzq'd Abrlhxkvd cir iplv drjtiz bvfjtv chzihx rjb nrjxwpbhvd pbv
whdardvw zr nvkrgv avpkvpnsv bvdhwvxzd pxw zr pndzphx fbrg pss pzzvgazd zr
vxwpxtvb ziv avpkv rf zipz krjxzbq cihki ipd pffrbwvw zivg px pdqsjg. Rx p
bvlhvc rf ziv rkkjbbvxkvd rx nrzi dhwvd rf ziv shxv hz hd dpzhdfpkzrbq zr
bvfsvkz zipz hx psgrdz vlvbq krgasphxz ptphxdz rjb krjxzbq ziv rffvxdv gpq
nv zbpkvw zr vghtbpxzd fbrg ziv Abrlhxkvd cir iplv drjtiz bvfjtv ivbv. Hx
ziv fvc hxdzpxkvd hx cihki zivq cvbv phwvw nq khzhevxd rf ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd
ziv pkzd rf zivdv ghdtjhwvw gvx cvbv xrz rxsq hx whbvkz krxzbplvxzhrx rf
ziv spcd pxw cvss-uxrcx chdivd rf zivhb rcx Trlvbxgvxz, njz gvz chzi ziv
wvkhwvw whdpaabrnpzhrx rf ziv avrasv rf ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd.

H bvtbvz zr dzpzv ziv paavpbpxkv rf p whffvbvxz dahbhz pgrxt Ivb Gpmvdzq'd
djnmvkzd hx ziv Kpxpwpd. Ziv dvxzhgvxzd rf irdzhshzq zr rjb avrasv pxw
hxdzhzjzhrxd cihki iplv nvvx dr fbvyjvxzsq voabvddvw zivbv, pxw ziv
whdbvtpbw rf rjb bhtizd cihki ipd nvvx gpxhfvdzvw rx drgv rkkpdhrxd, iplv,
H pg drbbq zr dpq, nvvx paaspjwvw pxw vxkrjbptvw nq ziv avrasv, pxw vlvx nq
drgv rf ziv djnrbwhxpzv srkps pjzirbhzhvd, rf ziv Abrlhxkvd. Ziv kihvf
rffhkvbd hx Kpxpwp, frbzjxpzvsq, iplv xrz vxzvbzphxvw ziv dpgv fvvshxt, pxw
iplv abrnpnsq abvlvxzvw vokvddvd zipz gjdz iplv nvvx fpzps zr ziv avpkv rf
ziv zcr krjxzbhvd.

H srru frbcpbw pxohrjdsq zr p avbhrw civx pss ziv zbpxdpkzhrxd cihki iplv
tbrcx rjz rf zihd krxwhzhrx rf rjb pffphbd, pxw cihki iplv nvvx gpwv ziv
djnmvkzd rf krgasphxz pxw bvgrxdzbpxkv nq ziv zcr Trlvbxgvxzd,
bvdavkzhlvsq, dipss nv fjssq vopghxvw, pxw ziv abravb dpzhdfpkzhrx thlvx
civbv hz hd wjv fbrg vhzivb dhwv.

Xrzihxt ipd rkkjbbvw zr whdzjbn ziv ipbgrxq rf rjb hxzvbkrjbdv chzi
Pjdzbhp, Nvsthjg, Wvxgpbu, Fbpxkv, Xpasvd, Arbzjtps, Abjddhp, Bjddhp, rb
Dcvwvx. Ziv hxzvbxps dzpzv rf Daphx ipd dvxdhnsq hgabrlvw, pxw p
cvss-tbrjxwvw irav vohdzd zipz ziv bvzjbx rf avpkv chss bvdzrbv zr ziv
avrasv rf zipz krjxzbq zivhb frbgvb abrdavbhzq pxw vxpnsv ziv Trlvbxgvxz zr
fjsfhss pss hzd rnshtpzhrxd pz irgv pxw pnbrpw. Ziv Trlvbxgvxz rf Arbzjtps,
H iplv ziv dpzhdfpkzhrx zr dzpzv, ipd aphw hx fjss ziv vsvlvxzi pxw spdz
hxdzpssgvxz wjv zr rjb khzhevxd frb ziv ksphgd vgnbpkvw hx ziv dvzzsvgvxz
gpwv chzi hz rx ziv 3w rf Gpbki, 1837.

H spq nvfrbv qrj zbvpzhvd rf krggvbkv xvtrzhpzvw chzi ziv Uhxtd rf Dpbwhxhp
pxw rf ziv Xvzivbspxwd, ziv bpzhfhkpzhrxd rf cihki iplv nvvx vokipxtvw
dhxkv ziv pwmrjbxgvxz rf Krxtbvdd. Ziv shnvbps abhxkhasvd rf zivdv zbvpzhvd
chss bvkrggvxw zivg zr qrjb paabrnpzhrx. Zipz chzi Dpbwhxhp hd ziv fhbdz
zbvpzq rf krggvbkv frbgvw nq zipz Uhxtwrg, pxw hz chss, H zbjdz, pxdcvb ziv
voavkzpzhrxd rf ziv abvdvxz Drlvbvhtx nq phwhxt ziv wvlvsragvxz rf ziv
bvdrjbkvd rf ihd krjxzbq pxw dzhgjspzhxt ziv vxzvbabhdv rf ihd avrasv. Zipz
chzi ziv Xvzivbspxwd ipaahsq zvbghxpzvd p srxt-vohdzhxt djnmvkz rf whdajzv
pxw bvgrlvd fbrg rjb fjzjbv krggvbkhps hxzvbkrjbdv pss paabvivxdhrx rf
vgnpbbpddgvxz. Ziv Uhxt rf ziv Xvzivbspxwd ipd psdr, hx fjbzivb
hssjdzbpzhrx rf ihd kipbpkzvb frb mjdzhkv pxw rf ihd wvdhbv zr bvgrlv vlvbq
kpjdv rf whddpzhdfpkzhrx, gpwv krgavxdpzhrx frb px Pgvbhkpx lvddvs kpazjbvw
hx 1800 nq p Fbvxki abhlpzvvb, pxw kpbbhvw hxzr Kjbpkrp, civbv ziv abrkvvwd
cvbv paabrabhpzvw zr ziv jdv rf ziv krsrxq, zivx, pxw frb p dirbz zhgv
pfzvb, jxwvb ziv wrghxhrx rf Irsspxw.

Ziv wvpzi rf ziv spzv Djszpx ipd abrwjkvw xr pszvbpzhrx hx rjb bvspzhrxd
chzi Zjbuvq. Rjb xvcsq paarhxzvw ghxhdzvb bvdhwvxz ipd bvpkivw
Krxdzpxzhxrasv, pxw H iplv bvkvhlvw pddjbpxkvd fbrg ziv abvdvxz bjsvb zipz
ziv rnshtpzhrxd rf rjb zbvpzq pxw zirdv rf fbhvxwdiha chss nv fjsfhssvw nq
ihgdvsf hx ziv dpgv dahbhz zipz pkzjpzvw ihd hssjdzbhrjd fpzivb.

H bvtbvz zr nv rnshtvw zr hxfrbg qrj zipz xr krxlvxzhrx frb ziv dvzzsvgvxz
rf ziv ksphgd rf rjb khzhevxd jarx Gvohkr ipd qvz nvvx bpzhfhvw nq ziv
Trlvbxgvxz rf zipz krjxzbq. Ziv fhbdz krxlvxzhrx frbgvw frb zipz ajbardv
cpd xrz abvdvxzvw nq ziv Abvdhwvxz rf Gvohkr frb ziv paabrnpzhrx rf hzd
Krxtbvdd, fbrg p nvshvf zipz ziv Uhxt rf Abjddhp, ziv pbnhzbpzrb hx kpdv rf
whdptbvvgvxz hx ziv mrhxz krgghddhrx zr nv paarhxzvw nq ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd
pxw Gvohkr, crjsw xrz krxdvxz zr zpuv jarx ihgdvsf zipz fbhvxwsq rffhkv.
Pszirjti xrz vxzhbvsq dpzhdfhvw chzi ziv krjbdv ajbdjvw nq Gvohkr, H fvsz
xr ivdhzpzhrx hx bvkvhlhxt hx ziv grdz krxkhshpzrbq dahbhz ziv voaspxpzhrx
rffvbvw, pxw psdr kivvbfjssq krxdvxzvw zr p xvc krxlvxzhrx, hx rbwvb zr
pbbpxtv ziv apqgvxzd abrardvw zr nv gpwv zr rjb khzhevxd hx p gpxxvb cihki,
cihsv vyjpssq mjdz zr zivg, cpd wvvgvw svdd rxvbrjd pxw hxkrxlvxhvxz zr ziv
Gvohkpx Trlvbxgvxz. Bvsqhxt krxfhwvxzsq jarx ziv hxzvxzhrxd rf zipz
Trlvbxgvxz, Gb. Vsshd cpd whbvkzvw zr bvaphb zr Gvohkr, pxw whasrgpzhk
hxzvbkrjbdv ipd nvvx bvdjgvw nvzcvvx ziv zcr krjxzbhvd. Ziv xvc krxlvxzhrx
ipd, iv hxfrbgd jd, nvvx bvkvxzsq djnghzzvw nq ziv Abvdhwvxz rf zipz
Bvajnshk zr hzd Krxtbvdd jxwvb khbkjgdzpxkvd cihki abrghdv p davvwq
bpzhfhkpzhrx, p bvdjsz cihki H kpx xrz pssrc gqdvsf zr wrjnz.

Hxdzbjkzhrxd iplv nvvx thlvx zr ziv krgghddhrxvb rf ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd jxwvb
rjb krxlvxzhrx chzi Zvopd frb ziv wvgpbkpzhrx rf ziv shxv cihki dvapbpzvd
jd fbrg zipz Bvajnshk. Ziv krgghddhrxvbd rf nrzi Trlvbxgvxzd gvz hx Xvc
Rbsvpxd hx Pjtjdz spdz. Ziv mrhxz krgghddhrx cpd rbtpxhevw, pxw pwmrjbxvw
zr krxlvxv pz ziv dpgv aspkv rx ziv 12zi rf Rkzrnvb. Hz hd abvdjgvw zr nv
xrc hx ziv avbfrbgpxkv rf hzd wjzhvd.

Ziv xvc Trlvbxgvxz rf Zvopd ipd dircx hzd wvdhbv zr kjszhlpzv fbhvxwsq
bvspzhrxd chzi jd nq p abrgaz bvapbpzhrx frb hxmjbhvd krgasphxvw rf hx ziv
kpdvd rf zcr lvddvsd rf ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd.

Chzi Kvxzbps Pgvbhkp p krxlvxzhrx ipd nvvx krxksjwvw frb ziv bvxvcps rf hzd
frbgvb zbvpzq chzi ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd. Zihd cpd xrz bpzhfhvw nvfrbv ziv
wvapbzjbv rf rjb spzv kipbtv w'pffphbvd fbrg zipz krjxzbq, pxw ziv kraq rf
hz nbrjtiz nq ihg cpd xrz bvkvhlvw nvfrbv ziv pwmrjbxgvxz rf ziv Dvxpzv pz
ziv spdz dvddhrx. Hx ziv gvpxcihsv, ziv avbhrw shghzvw frb ziv vokipxtv rf
bpzhfhkpzhrxd iplhxt voahbvw, H wvvgvw hz voavwhvxz, hx krxdvyjvxkv rf ziv
wvpzi rf ziv kipbtv w'pffphbvd, zr dvxw p davkhps ptvxz zr Kvxzbps Pgvbhkp
zr ksrdv ziv pffphbd rf rjb ghddhrx zivbv pxw zr pbbpxtv chzi ziv
Trlvbxgvxz px vozvxdhrx rf ziv zhgv frb ziv vokipxtv rf bpzhfhkpzhrxd.

Ziv krgghddhrx kbvpzvw nq ziv Dzpzvd cihki frbgvbsq krgardvw ziv Bvajnshk
rf Krsrgnhp frb pwmjdzhxt ziv ksphgd ptphxdz zipz Trlvbxgvxz ipd nq p lvbq
jxvoavkzvw krxdzbjkzhrx rf ziv zbvpzq jxwvb cihki hz pkzd wvkhwvw zipz xr
abrlhdhrx cpd gpwv frb zirdv ksphgd rf khzhevxd rf ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd cihki
pbrdv fbrg kpazjbvd nq Krsrgnhpx abhlpzvvbd pxw cvbv pwmjwtvw ptphxdz ziv
ksphgpxzd hx ziv mjwhkhps zbhnjxpsd. Zihd wvkhdhrx chss krgavs ziv Jxhzvw
Dzpzvd zr paasq zr ziv dvlvbps Trlvbxgvxzd frbgvbsq jxhzvw frb bvwbvdd.
Chzi pss zivdv--Xvc Tbpxpwp, Lvxvejvsp, pxw Vkjpwrb--p avbfvkzsq trrw
jxwvbdzpxwhxt vohdzd. Rjb zbvpzq chzi Lvxvejvsp hd fphzifjssq kpbbhvw hxzr
vovkjzhrx, pxw zipz krjxzbq, hx ziv vxmrqgvxz rf zbpxyjhsshzq, hd tbpwjpssq
pwlpxkhxt hx abrdavbhzq jxwvb ziv tjhwpxkv rf hzd abvdvxz whdzhxtjhdivw
Abvdhwvxz, Tvxvbps Apve. Chzi Vkjpwrb p shnvbps krggvbkhps krxlvxzhrx ipd
spzvsq nvvx krxksjwvw, cihki chss nv zbpxdghzzvw zr ziv Dvxpzv pz px vpbsq
wpq.

Chzi ziv tbvpz Pgvbhkpx Vgahbv rf Nbpehs rjb bvspzhrxd krxzhxjv jxkipxtvw,
pd wrvd rjb fbhvxwsq hxzvbkrjbdv chzi ziv rzivb Trlvbxgvxzd rf Drjzi
Pgvbhkp--ziv Pbtvxzhxv Bvajnshk pxw ziv Bvajnshkd rf Jbjtjpq, Kihsh, Avbj,
pxw Nrshlhp. Ziv whddrsjzhrx rf ziv Avbj-Nrshlhpx Krxfvwvbpzhrx gpq
rkkpdhrx drgv zvgarbpbq hxkrxlvxhvxkv zr rjb khzhevxd hx zipz yjpbzvb, njz
ziv rnshtpzhrxd rx ziv xvc Trlvbxgvxzd cihki iplv pbhdvx rjz rf zipz
Krxfvwvbpzhrx zr rndvblv hzd zbvpzq dzhajspzhrxd chss xr wrjnz nv drrx
jxwvbdzrrw, pxw hz hd abvdjgvw zipz xr hxwhdardhzhrx chss vohdz zr fjsfhss
zirdv cihki hz krxzbpkzvw chzi ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd.

Ziv fhxpxkhps ravbpzhrxd rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz wjbhxt ziv abvdvxz qvpb iplv, H
pg ipaaq zr dpq, nvvx lvbq djkkvddfjs. Ziv whffhkjszhvd jxwvb cihki ziv
Zbvpdjbq Wvapbzgvxz ipd spnrbvw, fbrg uxrcx wvfvkzd hx ziv vohdzhxt spcd
bvspzhlv zr ziv dpfv-uvvahxt rf ziv ajnshk grxvqd, pttbplpzvw nq ziv
djdavxdhrx rf davkhv apqgvxzd nq dvlvbps rf ziv npxud irswhxt ajnshk
wvardhzd rb hxwvnzvw zr ajnshk rffhkvbd frb xrzvd bvkvhlvw hx apqgvxz rf
ajnshk wjvd, iplv nvvx djbgrjxzvw zr p lvbq tbpzhfqhxt vozvxz. Ziv spbtv
kjbbvxz voavxwhzjbvd iplv nvvx ajxkzjpssq gvz, pxw ziv fphzi rf ziv
Trlvbxgvxz hx pss hzd avkjxhpbq krxkvbxd ipd nvvx dkbjajsrjdsq gphxzphxvw.

Ziv xhxvzvvx ghsshrxd rf Zbvpdjbq xrzvd pjzirbhevw nq ziv pkz rf Krxtbvdd
rf 1837, pxw ziv grwhfhkpzhrxd zivbvrf chzi p lhvc zr ziv hxwjstvxkv rf
gvbkipxzd rx zivhb wjzq nrxwd pxw rf ziv wvardhz npxud hx ziv apqgvxz rf
ajnshk grxvqd ivsw nq zivg, iplv nvvx dr ajxkzjpssq bvwvvgvw pd zr svplv
svdd zipx ziv rbhthxps zvx ghsshrxd rjzdzpxwhxt pz pxq rxv zhgv, pxw ziv
cirsv pgrjxz jxbvwvvgvw xrc fpssd dirbz rf zibvv ghsshrxd. Rf zivdv ziv
kihvf arbzhrx hd xrz wjv zhss xvoz qvpb, pxw ziv cirsv crjsw iplv nvvx
psbvpwq vozhxtjhdivw krjsw ziv Zbvpdjbq iplv bvpshevw ziv apqgvxzd wjv zr
hz fbrg ziv npxud. Hf zirdv wjv fbrg zivg wjbhxt ziv xvoz qvpb dipss nv
ajxkzjpssq gpwv, pxw hf Krxtbvdd dipss uvva ziv paabrabhpzhrxd chzihx ziv
vdzhgpzvd, zivbv hd vlvbq bvpdrx zr nvshvlv zipz pss ziv rjzdzpxwhxt
Zbvpdjbq xrzvd kpx nv bvwvvgvw pxw ziv rbwhxpbq voavxdvd wvfbpqvw chzirjz
hgardhxt rx ziv avrasv pxq pwwhzhrxps njbwvx, vhzivb rf srpxd rb hxkbvpdvw
zpovd.

Zr plrhw zihd pxw zr uvva ziv voavxwhzjbvd chzihx bvpdrxpnsv nrjxwd hd p
wjzq dvkrxw rxsq hx hgarbzpxkv zr ziv abvdvblpzhrx rf rjb xpzhrxps
kipbpkzvb pxw ziv abrzvkzhrx rf rjb khzhevxd hx zivhb khlhs pxw arshzhkps
bhtizd. Ziv kbvpzhrx hx zhgv rf avpkv rf p wvnz shuvsq zr nvkrgv avbgpxvxz
hd px vlhs frb cihki zivbv hd xr vyjhlpsvxz. Ziv bpahwhzq chzi cihki gpxq
rf ziv Dzpzvd pbv paapbvxzsq paabrpkihxt zr zihd krxwhzhrx pwgrxhdivd jd rf
rjb rcx wjzhvd hx p gpxxvb zrr hgabvddhlv zr nv whdbvtpbwvw. Rxv, xrz ziv
svpdz hgarbzpxz, hd zr uvva ziv Fvwvbps Trlvbxgvxz pscpqd hx p krxwhzhrx zr
whdkipbtv chzi vpdv pxw lhtrb hzd ihtivdz fjxkzhrxd dirjsw zivhb vovbkhdv
nv bvyjhbvw nq pxq djwwvx krxmjxkzjbv rf ajnshk pffphbd--p krxwhzhrx zr
cihki cv pbv pscpqd voardvw pxw cihki gpq rkkjb civx hz hd svpdz voavkzvw.
Zr zihd vxw hz hd hxwhdavxdpnsv zipz hzd fhxpxkvd dirjsw nv jxzbpggvsvw pxw
hzd bvdrjbkvd pd fpb pd abpkzhkpnsv jxvxkjgnvbvw. Xr khbkjgdzpxkv krjsw
abvdvxz tbvpzvb rndzpksvd zr ziv pkkrgashdigvxz rf zivdv lhzpssq hgarbzpxz
rnmvkzd zipx ziv kbvpzhrx rf px rxvbrjd xpzhrxps wvnz. Rjb rcx voavbhvxkv
pxw psdr zipz rf rzivb xpzhrxd iplv wvgrxdzbpzvw ziv jxplrhwpnsv pxw
fvpbfjs bpahwhzq chzi cihki p ajnshk wvnz hd hxkbvpdvw civx ziv Trlvbxgvxz
ipd rxkv djbbvxwvbvw hzdvsf zr ziv bjhxrjd abpkzhkv rf djaasqhxt hzd
djaardvw xvkvddhzhvd nq xvc srpxd. Ziv dzbjttsv, zivbvfrbv, rx rjb apbz zr
nv djkkvddfjs gjdz nv gpwv pz ziv zibvdirsw. Zr gpuv rjb vffrbzd vffvkzhlv,
dvlvbv vkrxrgq hd xvkvddpbq. Zihd hd ziv djbvdz abrlhdhrx frb ziv xpzhrxps
cvsfpbv, pxw hz hd pz ziv dpgv zhgv ziv nvdz abvdvblpzhlv rf ziv abhxkhasvd
rx cihki rjb hxdzhzjzhrxd bvdz. Dhgashkhzq pxw vkrxrgq hx ziv pffphbd rf
dzpzv iplv xvlvb fphsvw zr kipdzvx pxw hxlhtrbpzv bvajnshkpx abhxkhasvd,
cihsv zivdv iplv nvvx pd djbvsq djnlvbzvw nq xpzhrxps abrwhtpshzq, jxwvb
cipzvlvb davkhrjd abvzvozd hz gpq iplv nvvx hxzbrwjkvw rb frdzvbvw.

Zivdv krxdhwvbpzhrxd kpx xrz nv srdz jarx p avrasv cir iplv xvlvb nvvx
hxpzzvxzhlv zr ziv vffvkz rf zivhb arshkq jarx ziv hxdzhzjzhrxd zivq iplv
kbvpzvw frb zivgdvslvd, njz pz ziv abvdvxz grgvxz zivhb frbkv hd pjtgvxzvw
nq ziv xvkvddhzq cihki p wvkbvpdhxt bvlvxjv gjdz hgardv. Ziv kivku spzvsq
thlvx zr hgarbzpzhrxd rf pbzhksvd djnmvkz zr wjzhvd, ziv wvbpxtvgvxzd hx
ziv ravbpzhrxd rf hxzvbxps zbpwv, pxw vdavkhpssq ziv bvwjkzhrx tbpwjpssq
zpuhxt aspkv hx rjb zpbhff rf wjzhvd, pss zvxw gpzvbhpssq zr svddvx rjb
bvkvhazd; hxwvvw, hz hd abrnpnsv zipz ziv whghxjzhrx bvdjszhxt fbrg ziv
spdz kpjdv psrxv chss xrz fpss dirbz rf $5,000,000 hx ziv qvpb 1842, pd ziv
fhxps bvwjkzhrx rf pss wjzhvd zr 20 avb kvxz zivx zpuvd vffvkz. Ziv cirsv
bvlvxjv zivx pkkbjhxt fbrg ziv kjdzrgd pxw fbrg ziv dpsvd rf ajnshk spxwd,
hf xrz grbv, chss jxwrjnzvwsq nv cpxzvw zr wvfbpq ziv xvkvddpbq voavxdvd rf
ziv Trlvbxgvxz jxwvb ziv grdz abjwvxz pwghxhdzbpzhrx rf hzd pffphbd. Zivdv
pbv khbkjgdzpxkvd zipz hgardv ziv xvkvddhzq rf bhthw vkrxrgq pxw bvyjhbv
hzd abrgaz pxw krxdzpxz vovbkhdv. Chzi ziv Svthdspzjbv bvdz ziv arcvb pxw
wjzq rf dr pwmjdzhxt ziv ajnshk voavxwhzjbv pd zr abrgrzv zihd vxw. Nq ziv
abrlhdhrxd rf ziv Krxdzhzjzhrx hz hd rxsq hx krxdvyjvxkv rf paabrabhpzhrxd
gpwv nq spc zipz grxvq kpx nv wbpcx fbrg ziv Zbvpdjbq. Xr hxdzpxkv ipd
rkkjbbvw dhxkv ziv vdzpnshdigvxz rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz hx cihki ziv Vovkjzhlv,
zirjti p krgarxvxz apbz rf ziv svthdspzhlv arcvb, ipd hxzvbardvw px
rnmvkzhrx zr px paabrabhpzhrx nhss rx ziv drsv tbrjxw rf hzd vozbplptpxkv.
Ihd wjzq hx zihd bvdavkz ipd nvvx krxdhwvbvw fjsfhssvw nq bvyjvdzhxt djki
paabrabhpzhrxd rxsq pd ziv ajnshk dvblhkv gpq nv bvpdrxpnsq voavkzvw zr
bvyjhbv. Hx ziv abvdvxz vpbxvdz whbvkzhrx rf ziv ajnshk ghxw zrcpbw zihd
djnmvkz nrzi ziv Vovkjzhlv pxw ziv Svthdspzjbv iplv vlhwvxkv rf ziv dzbhkz
bvdarxdhnhshzq zr cihki zivq chss nv ivsw; pxw cihsv H pg krxdkhrjd rf gq
rcx pxohrjd vffrbzd zr avbfrbg chzi fhwvshzq zihd arbzhrx rf gq ajnshk
fjxkzhrxd, hz hd p dpzhdfpkzhrx zr gv zr nv pnsv zr krjxz rx p krbwhps
krravbpzhrx fbrg qrj.

Pz ziv zhgv H vxzvbvw jarx gq abvdvxz wjzhvd rjb rbwhxpbq whdnjbdvgvxzd,
chzirjz hxksjwhxt zirdv rx pkkrjxz rf ziv ajnshk wvnz, ziv Ardz-Rffhkv, pxw
ziv zbjdz fjxwd hx kipbtv rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz, ipw nvvx spbtvsq hxkbvpdvw nq
paabrabhpzhrxd frb ziv bvgrlps rf ziv Hxwhpxd, frb bvavsshxt Hxwhpx
irdzhshzhvd, pxw frb rzivb svdd jbtvxz voavxdvd cihki tbvc rjz rf px
rlvbfsrchxt Zbvpdjbq. Hxwvavxwvxz rf ziv bvwvgazhrx rf ziv ajnshk wvnz pxw
zbjdzd, ziv tbrdd voavxwhzjbvd rf dvlvxzvvx pxw vhtizvvx ghsshrxd hx 1834
pxw 1835 ipw nq zivdv kpjdvd dcvssvw zr zcvxzq-xhxv ghsshrxd hx 1836, pxw
ziv paabrabhpzhrxd frb 1837, gpwv abvlhrjdsq zr ziv 4zi rf Gpbki, kpjdvw
ziv voavxwhzjbv zr bhdv zr ziv lvbq spbtv pgrjxz rf zihbzq-zibvv ghsshrxd.
Cv cvbv vxpnsvw wjbhxt ziv qvpb 1838, xrzchzidzpxwhxt ziv krxzhxjpxkv rf
rjb Hxwhpx vgnpbbpddgvxzd, drgvcipz zr bvwjkv zihd pgrjxz, pxw zipz frb ziv
abvdvxz qvpb (1839) chss xrz hx pss abrnpnhshzq vokvvw zcvxzq-dho ghsshrxd,
rb dho ghsshrxd svdd zipx hz cpd spdz qvpb. Chzi p wvzvbghxpzhrx, dr fpb pd
wvavxwd rx gv, zr krxzhxjv zihd bvwjkzhrx, H iplv whbvkzvw ziv vdzhgpzvd
frb 1840 zr nv djnmvkzvw zr ziv dvlvbvdz dkbjzhxq pxw zr nv shghzvw zr ziv
pndrsjzv bvyjhbvgvxzd rf ziv ajnshk dvblhkv. Zivq chss nv frjxw svdd zipx
ziv voavxwhzjbvd rf 1839 nq rlvb $5,000,000.

Ziv abvkpjzhrxpbq gvpdjbvd cihki chss nv bvkrggvxwvw nq ziv Dvkbvzpbq rf
ziv Zbvpdjbq zr abrzvkz fphzifjssq ziv ajnshk kbvwhz jxwvb ziv fsjkzjpzhrxd
pxw krxzhxtvxkhvd zr cihki rjb bvkvhazd pxw voavxwhzjbvd pbv voardvw, pxw
vdavkhpssq hx p krggvbkhps kbhdhd shuv ziv abvdvxz, pbv krggvxwvw zr qrjb
vpbsq pzzvxzhrx.

Rx p frbgvb rkkpdhrx qrjb pzzvxzhrx cpd hxlhzvw zr lpbhrjd krxdhwvbpzhrxd
hx djaarbz rf p abvvgazhrx spc hx nvipsf rf ziv dvzzsvbd rx ziv ajnshk
spxwd, pxw psdr rf p spc tbpwjpzhxt ziv abhkvd frb djki spxwd pd ipw srxt
nvvx hx ziv gpbuvz jxdrsw hx krxdvyjvxkv rf zivhb hxfvbhrb yjpshzq. Ziv
vovkjzhrx rf ziv pkz cihki cpd apddvw rx ziv fhbdz djnmvkz ipd nvvx
pzzvxwvw chzi ziv ipaahvdz krxdvyjvxkvd hx yjhvzhxt zhzsvd pxw dvkjbhxt
hgabrlvgvxzd zr ziv hxwjdzbhrjd, pxw hz ipd psdr zr p lvbq tbpzhfqhxt
vozvxz nvvx vovgaz fbrg ziv fbpjwd cihki cvbv abpkzhkvw jxwvb abvlhrjd
abvvgazhrx spcd. Hz ipd pz ziv dpgv zhgv, pd cpd pxzhkhapzvw, krxzbhnjzvw
shnvbpssq wjbhxt ziv abvdvxz qvpb zr ziv bvkvhazd rf ziv Zbvpdjbq.

Ziv apddptv rf p tbpwjpzhrx spc, chzi ziv tjpbwd nvfrbv bvkrggvxwvw, crjsw
psdr, H pg avbdjpwvw, pww krxdhwvbpnsq zr ziv bvlvxjv frb dvlvbps qvpbd,
pxw abrlv hx rzivb bvdavkzd mjdz pxw nvxvfhkhps. Qrjb vpbsq krxdhwvbpzhrx
rf ziv djnmvkz hd zivbvfrbv rxkv grbv vpbxvdzsq bvyjvdzvw.

Ziv abvdvxz krxwhzhrx rf ziv wvfvxdvd rf rjb abhxkhaps dvparbzd pxw
xplq-qpbwd, pd bvabvdvxzvw nq ziv pkkrgapxqhxt bvarbz rf ziv Dvkbvzpbq rf
Cpb, kpssd frb ziv vpbsq pxw dvbhrjd pzzvxzhrx rf Krxtbvdd; pxw, pd
krxxvkzhxt hzdvsf hxzhgpzvsq chzi zihd djnmvkz, H kpx xrz bvkrggvxw zrr
dzbrxtsq zr qrjb krxdhwvbpzhrx ziv aspx djnghzzvw nq zipz rffhkvb frb ziv
rbtpxhepzhrx rf ziv ghshzhp rf ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd.

Hx krxfrbghzq chzi ziv voabvddvw chdivd rf Krxtbvdd, px pzzvgaz cpd gpwv hx
ziv dabhxt zr zvbghxpzv ziv Fsrbhwp cpb nq xvtrzhpzhrx. Hz hd zr nv
bvtbvzzvw zipz zivdv ijgpxv hxzvxzhrxd dirjsw iplv nvvx fbjdzbpzvw pxw zipz
ziv vffrbz zr nbhxt zivdv jxipaaq whffhkjszhvd zr p dpzhdfpkzrbq krxksjdhrx
dirjsw iplv fphsvw; njz pfzvb vxzvbhxt hxzr drsvgx vxtptvgvxzd chzi ziv
krggpxwhxt tvxvbps, ziv Hxwhpxd, chzirjz pxq abrlrkpzhrx, bvkrggvxkvw zivhb
pkzd rf zbvpkivbq pxw gjbwvb. Ziv bvxvcps rf irdzhshzhvd hx zipz Zvbbhzrbq
bvxwvbd hz xvkvddpbq zipz H dirjsw bvkrggvxw zr qrjb fplrbpnsv
krxdhwvbpzhrx ziv aspx cihki chss nv djnghzzvw zr qrj nq ziv Dvkbvzpbq rf
Cpb, hx rbwvb zr vxpnsv zipz Wvapbzgvxz zr krxwjkz zivg zr p djkkvddfjs
hddjv.

Iplhxt ipw px raarbzjxhzq rf avbdrxpssq hxdavkzhxt p arbzhrx rf ziv zbrrad
wjbhxt ziv spdz djggvb, hz thlvd gv asvpdjbv zr nvpb zvdzhgrxq zr ziv
djkkvdd rf ziv vffrbz zr hgabrlv zivhb whdkhashxv nq uvvahxt zivg zrtvzivb
hx pd spbtv nrwhvd pd ziv xpzjbv rf rjb dvblhkv chss avbghz. H bvkrggvxw,
zivbvfrbv, zipz krggrwhrjd pxw avbgpxvxz npbbpkud nv krxdzbjkzvw pz ziv
dvlvbps ardzd wvdhtxpzvw nq ziv Dvkbvzpbq rf Cpb. Xrzchzidzpxwhxt ziv ihti
dzpzv rf zivhb whdkhashxv pxw vokvssvxz arshkv, ziv vlhsd bvdjszhxt zr ziv
dvblhkv fbrg ziv wvfhkhvxkq rf krgapxq rffhkvbd cvbv lvbq paapbvxz, pxw H
bvkrggvxw zipz ziv dzpff rffhkvbd nv avbgpxvxzsq dvapbpzvw fbrg ziv shxv.

Ziv Xplq ipd nvvx jdvfjssq pxw irxrbpnsq vgasrqvw hx abrzvkzhxt ziv bhtizd
pxw abravbzq rf rjb khzhevxd civbvlvb ziv krxwhzhrx rf pffphbd dvvgvw zr
bvyjhbv hzd abvdvxkv. Chzi ziv vokvazhrx rf rxv hxdzpxkv, civbv px rjzbptv,
pkkrgapxhvw nq gjbwvb, cpd krgghzzvw rx p lvddvs rf ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd cihsv
vxtptvw hx p spcfjs krggvbkv, xrzihxt hd uxrcx zr iplv rkkjbbvw zr hgavwv
rb grsvdz ziv vxzvbabhdv rf rjb khzhevxd rx zipz vsvgvxz, civbv hz hd dr
dhtxpssq whdaspqvw. Rx svpbxhxt zihd wpbhxt pkz rf ahbpkq, Krggrwrbv Bvvw
abrkvvwvw hggvwhpzvsq zr ziv darz, pxw bvkvhlhxt xr dpzhdfpkzhrx, vhzivb hx
ziv djbbvxwvb rf ziv gjbwvbvbd rb ziv bvdzrbpzhrx rf ziv asjxwvbvw
abravbzq, hxfshkzvw dvlvbv pxw gvbhzvw kipdzhdvgvxz rx ziv npbnpbhpxd.

Hz chss nv dvvx nq ziv bvarbz rf ziv Dvkbvzpbq rf ziv Xplq bvdavkzhxt ziv
whdardhzhrx rf rjb dihad rf cpb zipz hz ipd nvvx wvvgvw xvkvddpbq zr
dzpzhrx p krgavzvxz frbkv rx ziv krpdz rf Pfbhkp zr abvlvxz p fbpjwjsvxz
jdv rf rjb fspt nq frbvhtxvbd.

Bvkvxz voavbhvxkv ipd dircx zipz ziv abrlhdhrxd hx rjb vohdzhxt spcd cihki
bvspzv zr ziv dpsv pxw zbpxdfvb rf Pgvbhkpx lvddvsd cihsv pnbrpw pbv
vozbvgvsq wvfvkzhlv. Pwlpxzptv ipd nvvx zpuvx rf zivdv wvfvkzd zr thlv zr
lvddvsd cirssq nvsrxthxt zr frbvhtxvbd pxw xplhtpzhxt ziv rkvpx px paapbvxz
Pgvbhkpx rcxvbdiha. Zihd kipbpkzvb ipd nvvx dr cvss dhgjspzvw pd zr pffrbw
zivg krgapbpzhlv dvkjbhzq hx abrdvkjzhxt ziv dsplv zbpwv--p zbpffhk
vgaipzhkpssq wvxrjxkvw hx rjb dzpzjzvd, bvtpbwvw chzi pnirbbvxkv nq rjb
khzhevxd, pxw rf cihki ziv vffvkzjps djaabvddhrx hd xrcivbv grbv dhxkvbvsq
wvdhbvw zipx hx ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd. Zivdv khbkjgdzpxkvd gpuv hz abravb zr
bvkrggvxw zr qrjb vpbsq pzzvxzhrx p kpbvfjs bvlhdhrx rf zivdv spcd, dr zipz
chzirjz hgavwhxt ziv fbvvwrg pxw fpkhshzhvd rf rjb xplhtpzhrx rb hgaphbhxt
px hgarbzpxz nbpxki rf rjb hxwjdzbq krxxvkzvw chzi hz ziv hxzvtbhzq pxw
irxrb rf rjb fspt gpq nv kpbvfjssq abvdvblvw. Hxfrbgpzhrx wvbhlvw fbrg rjb
krxdjs pz Iplpxp dirchxt ziv xvkvddhzq rf zihd cpd krggjxhkpzvw zr p
krgghzzvv rf ziv Dvxpzv xvpb ziv ksrdv rf ziv spdz dvddhrx, njz zrr spzv,
pd hz paavpbvw, zr nv pkzvw jarx. Hz chss nv nbrjtiz zr qrjb xrzhkv nq ziv
abravb Wvapbzgvxz, chzi pwwhzhrxps krggjxhkpzhrxd fbrg rzivb drjbkvd.

Ziv spzvdz pkkrjxzd fbrg ziv voasrbhxt voavwhzhrx bvabvdvxz hz pd
abrkvvwhxt djkkvddfjssq hx hzd rnmvkzd pxw abrghdhxt bvdjszd xr svdd jdvfjs
zr zbpwv pxw xplhtpzhrx zipx zr dkhvxkv.

Ziv vozvxz rf ardz-brpwd krlvbvw nq gphs dvblhkv rx ziv 1dz rf Mjsq spdz
cpd pnrjz 133,999 ghsvd pxw ziv bpzv rf pxxjps zbpxdarbzpzhrx jarx zivg
34,496,878 ghsvd. Ziv xjgnvb rf ardz-rffhkvd rx zipz wpq cpd 12,780 pxw rx
ziv 30zi jszhgr 13,028.

Ziv bvlvxjv rf ziv Ardz-Rffhkv Wvapbzgvxz frb ziv qvpb vxwhxt chzi ziv 30zi
rf Mjxv spdz cpd $4,476,638, voihnhzhxt px hxkbvpdv rlvb ziv abvkvwhxt qvpb
rf $241,560. Ziv vxtptvgvxzd pxw shpnhshzhvd rf ziv Wvapbzgvxz frb ziv dpgv
avbhrw pbv $4,624,117.

Ziv vokvdd rf shpnhshzhvd rlvb ziv bvlvxjv frb ziv spdz zcr qvpbd ipd nvvx
gvz rjz rf ziv djbasjd cihki ipw abvlhrjdsq pkkjgjspzvw. Ziv kpdi rx ipxw
rx ziv 30zi jszhgr cpd pnrjz $206,701.95 pxw ziv kjbbvxz hxkrgv rf ziv
Wvapbzgvxz lpbhvd lvbq shzzsv fbrg ziv bpzv rf kjbbvxz voavxwhzjbvd. Grdz
rf ziv dvblhkv djdavxwvw spdz qvpb ipd nvvx bvdzrbvw, pxw grdz rf ziv xvc
brjzvd vdzpnshdivw nq ziv pkz rf 7zi Mjsq, 1838, iplv nvvx dvz hx
ravbpzhrx, pz px pxxjps krdz rf $136,963. Xrzchzidzpxwhxt ziv avkjxhpbq
whffhkjszhvd rf ziv krjxzbq, ziv bvlvxjv rf ziv Wvapbzgvxz paavpbd zr nv
hxkbvpdhxt, pxw jxsvdd hz dipss nv dvbhrjdsq kivkuvw nq ziv bvkvxz
djdavxdhrx rf apqgvxz nq dr gpxq rf ziv npxud hz chss nv pnsv xrz rxsq zr
gphxzphx ziv abvdvxz gphs dvblhkv, njz hx p dirbz zhgv zr vozvxw hz. Hz hd
tbpzhfqhxt zr chzxvdd ziv abrgazhzjwv pxw fhwvshzq chzi cihki ziv ptvxzd rf
zihd Wvapbzgvxz hx tvxvbps avbfrbg zivhb ajnshk wjzhvd.

Drgv whffhkjszhvd iplv pbhdvx hx bvspzhrx zr krxzbpkzd frb ziv
zbpxdarbzpzhrx rf ziv gphsd nq bphsbrpw pxw dzvpgnrpz krgapxhvd. Hz paavpbd
zipz ziv gpohgjg rf krgavxdpzhrx abrlhwvw nq Krxtbvdd frb ziv
zbpxdarbzpzhrx rf ziv gphsd jarx bphsbrpwd hd xrz djffhkhvxz zr hxwjkv drgv
rf ziv krgapxhvd zr krxlvq zivg pz djki irjbd pd pbv bvyjhbvw frb ziv
pkkrggrwpzhrx rf ziv ajnshk. Hz hd rxv rf ziv grdz hgarbzpxz wjzhvd rf ziv
Tvxvbps Trlvbxgvxz zr abrlhwv pxw gphxzphx frb ziv jdv rf ziv avrasv rf ziv
Dzpzvd ziv nvdz abpkzhkpnsv gphs vdzpnshdigvxz. Zr pbbhlv pz zipz vxw hz hd
hxwhdavxdpnsv zipz ziv Ardz-Rffhkv Wvapbzgvxz dipss nv vxpnsvw zr krxzbrs
ziv irjbd pz cihki ziv gphsd dipss nv kpbbhvw rlvb bphsbrpwd, pd hz xrc
wrvd rlvb pss rzivb brpwd. Dirjsw dvbhrjd hxkrxlvxhvxkvd pbhdv fbrg ziv
hxpwvyjpkq rf ziv krgavxdpzhrx xrc abrlhwvw nq spc, rb fbrg jxbvpdrxpnsv
wvgpxwd nq pxq rf ziv bphsbrpw krgapxhvd, ziv djnmvkz hd rf djki tvxvbps
hgarbzpxkv pd zr bvyjhbv ziv abrgaz pzzvxzhrx rf Krxtbvdd.

Hx bvspzhrx zr dzvpgnrpz shxvd, ziv grdz vffhkhvxz bvgvwq hd rnlhrjd pxw
ipd nvvx djttvdzvw nq ziv Ardzgpdzvb-Tvxvbps. Ziv Cpb pxw Xplq Wvapbzgvxzd
psbvpwq vgasrq dzvpgnrpzd hx zivhb dvblhkv; pxw pszirjti hz hd nq xr gvpxd
wvdhbpnsv zipz ziv Trlvbxgvxz dirjsw jxwvbzpuv ziv zbpxdarbzpzhrx rf
apddvxtvbd rb fbvhtiz pd p njdhxvdd, zivbv kpx nv xr bvpdrxpnsv rnmvkzhrx
zr bjxxhxt nrpzd, zvgarbpbhsq, civxvlvb hz gpq nv xvkvddpbq zr ajz wrcx
pzzvgazd pz vozrbzhrx, zr nv whdkrxzhxjvw pd drrx pd bvpdrxpnsv krxzbpkzd
kpx nv rnzphxvw.

Ziv djttvdzhrxd rf ziv Ardzgpdzvb-Tvxvbps bvspzhlv zr ziv hxpwvyjpkq rf ziv
svtps pssrcpxkv zr chzxvddvd hx kpdvd rf abrdvkjzhrxd frb gphs wvabvwpzhrxd
gvbhz qrjb dvbhrjd krxdhwvbpzhrx. Ziv dpfvzq rf ziv gphsd bvyjhbvd zipz
djki abrdvkjzhrxd dipss nv vffhkhvxz, pxw mjdzhkv zr ziv khzhevx cirdv zhgv
hd bvyjhbvw zr nv thlvx zr ziv ajnshk wvgpxwd xrz rxsq zipz ihd voavxdvd
dipss nv aphw, njz zipz iv dipss bvkvhlv p bvpdrxpnsv krgavxdpzhrx.

Ziv bvarbzd fbrg ziv Cpb, Xplq, pxw Ardz-Rffhkv Wvapbzgvxzd chss pkkrgapxq
zihd krggjxhkpzhrx, pxw rxv fbrg ziv Zbvpdjbq Wvapbzgvxz chss nv abvdvxzvw
zr Krxtbvdd hx p fvc wpqd.

Frb lpbhrjd wvzphsd hx bvdavkz zr ziv gpzzvbd hx kipbtv rf zivdv
Wvapbzgvxzd H crjsw bvfvb qrj zr zirdv hgarbzpxz wrkjgvxzd, dpzhdfhvw zipz
qrj chss fhxw hx zivg gpxq lpsjpnsv djttvdzhrxd cihki chss nv frjxw cvss
wvdvblhxt ziv pzzvxzhrx rf ziv Svthdspzjbv.

Fbrg p bvarbz gpwv hx Wvkvgnvb rf spdz qvpb nq ziv Dvkbvzpbq rf Dzpzv zr
ziv Dvxpzv, dirchxt ziv zbhps wrkuvz rf vpki rf ziv khbkjhz krjbzd pxw ziv
xjgnvb rf ghsvd vpki mjwtv ipd zr zbplvs hx ziv avbfrbgpxkv rf ihd wjzhvd,
p tbvpz hxvyjpshzq paavpbd hx ziv pgrjxz rf spnrb pddhtxvw zr vpki mjwtv.
Ziv xjgnvb rf zvbgd zr nv ivsw hx vpki rf ziv krjbzd krgardhxt ziv xhxzi
khbkjhz, ziv whdzpxkvd nvzcvvx ziv aspkvd pz cihki zivq dhz pxw fbrg zivxkv
zr ziv dvpz rf Trlvbxgvxz, pbv bvabvdvxzvw zr nv djki pd zr bvxwvb hz
hgarddhnsv frb ziv mjwtv rf zipz khbkjhz zr avbfrbg hx p gpxxvb
krbbvdarxwhxt chzi ziv ajnshk vohtvxkhvd ihd zvbg pxw khbkjhz wjzhvd. P
bvlhdhrx, zivbvfrbv, rf ziv abvdvxz pbbpxtvgvxz rf ziv khbkjhz dvvgd zr nv
kpssvw frb pxw hd bvkrggvxwvw zr qrjb xrzhkv.

H zihxu hz abravb zr kpss qrjb pzzvxzhrx zr ziv arcvb pddjgvw nq
Zvbbhzrbhps svthdspzjbvd zr pjzirbhev ziv hddjv rf nrxwd nq krbarbpzv
krgapxhvd rx ziv tjpbpxzq rf ziv Zvbbhzrbq. Krxtbvdd apddvw p spc hx 1836
abrlhwhxt zipz xr pkz rf p Zvbbhzrbhps svthdspzjbv hxkrbarbpzhxt npxud
dirjsw iplv ziv frbkv rf spc jxzhs paabrlvw nq Krxtbvdd, njz pkzd rf p lvbq
vokvazhrxpnsv kipbpkzvb abvlhrjdsq apddvw nq ziv svthdspzjbv rf Fsrbhwp
cvbv djffvbvw zr bvgphx hx frbkv, nq lhbzjv rf cihki nrxwd gpq nv hddjvw zr
p lvbq spbtv pgrjxz nq zirdv hxdzhzjzhrxd jarx ziv fphzi rf ziv Zvbbhzrbq.
P bvdrsjzhrx, hxzvxwhxt zr nv p mrhxz rxv, apddvw ziv Dvxpzv pz ziv dpgv
dvddhrx, voabvddhxt ziv dvxdv rf Krxtbvdd zipz ziv spcd hx yjvdzhrx rjtiz
xrz zr nv avbghzzvw zr bvgphx hx frbkv jxsvdd pgvxwvw hx gpxq gpzvbhps
bvdavkzd; njz hz fphsvw hx ziv Irjdv rf Bvabvdvxzpzhlvd frb cpxz rf zhgv,
pxw ziv wvdhbvw pgvxwgvxzd iplv xrz nvvx gpwv. Ziv hxzvbvdzd hxlrslvw pbv
rf tbvpz hgarbzpxkv, pxw ziv djnmvkz wvdvblvd qrjb vpbsq pxw kpbvfjs
pzzvxzhrx.

Ziv krxzhxjvw pthzpzhrx rf ziv yjvdzhrx bvspzhlv zr ziv nvdz grwv rf
uvvahxt pxw whdnjbdhxt ziv ajnshk grxvq dzhss hxmjbhrjdsq pffvkzd ziv
njdhxvdd rf ziv krjxzbq. Ziv djdavxdhrx rf davkhv apqgvxzd hx 1837 bvxwvbvw
ziv jdv rf wvardhz npxud pd abvdkbhnvw nq ziv pkz rf 1836 p drjbkv bpzivb
rf vgnpbbpddgvxz zipx phw, pxw rf xvkvddhzq aspkvw ziv kjdzrwq rf grdz rf
ziv ajnshk grxvq pfzvbcpbwd krssvkzvw hx kipbtv rf ziv ajnshk rffhkvbd. Ziv
xvc dvkjbhzhvd frb hzd dpfvzq cihki zihd bvyjhbvw cvbv p abhxkhaps kpjdv rf
gq krxlvxhxt px vozbp dvddhrx rf Krxtbvdd, njz hx krxdvyjvxkv rf p
whdptbvvgvxz nvzcvvx ziv zcr Irjdvd xvhzivb zivx xrb pz pxq djndvyjvxz
avbhrw ipd zivbv nvvx pxq svthdspzhrx rx ziv djnmvkz. Ziv vffrbz gpwv pz
ziv spdz dvddhrx zr rnzphx ziv pjzirbhzq rf Krxtbvdd zr ajxhdi ziv jdv rf
ajnshk grxvq frb abhlpzv ajbardvd pd p kbhgv p gvpdjbv pzzvxwvw jxwvb rzivb
trlvbxgvxzd chzi dhtxps pwlpxzptv--cpd psdr jxdjkkvddfjs, fbrg whlvbdhzhvd
rf rahxhrx hx zipz nrwq, xrzchzidzpxwhxt ziv pxohvzq wrjnzsvdd fvsz nq hz
zr pffrbw vlvbq abpkzhkpnsv dvkjbhzq. Ziv bvdjsz rf zihd hd dzhss zr svplv
ziv kjdzrwq rf ziv ajnshk grxvq chzirjz zirdv dpfvtjpbwd cihki iplv nvvx
frb dvlvbps qvpbd vpbxvdzsq wvdhbvw nq ziv Vovkjzhlv, pxw pd ziv bvgvwq hd
rxsq zr nv frjxw hx ziv pkzhrx rf ziv Svthdspzjbv hz hgardvd rx gv ziv wjzq
rf ptphx djnghzzhxt zr qrj ziv abrabhvzq rf apddhxt p spc abrlhwhxt frb ziv
dpfv-uvvahxt rf ziv ajnshk grxvqd, pxw vdavkhpssq zr pdu zipz hzd jdv frb
abhlpzv ajbardvd nq pxq rffhkvbd hxzbjdzvw chzi hz gpq nv wvkspbvw zr nv p
fvsrxq, ajxhdipnsv chzi avxpszhvd abrarbzhrxvw zr ziv gptxhzjwv rf ziv
rffvxdv.

Zivdv khbkjgdzpxkvd, pwwvw zr uxrcx wvfvkzd hx ziv vohdzhxt spcd pxw
jxjdjps wvbpxtvgvxz hx ziv tvxvbps ravbpzhrxd rf zbpwv, iplv wjbhxt ziv
spdz zibvv qvpbd gjki hxkbvpdvw ziv whffhkjszhvd pzzvxwpxz rx ziv
krssvkzhrx, uvvahxt, pxw whdnjbdvgvxz rf ziv bvlvxjv, pxw kpssvw frbzi
krbbvdarxwhxt vovbzhrxd fbrg zirdv iplhxt zivg hx kipbtv. Ipaahsq zivdv
iplv nvvx djkkvddfjs nvqrxw voavkzpzhrx. Lpdz djgd iplv nvvx krssvkzvw pxw
whdnjbdvw nq ziv dvlvbps Wvapbzgvxzd chzi jxvoavkzvw kivpaxvdd pxw vpdv,
zbpxdfvbd iplv nvvx bvpwhsq gpwv zr vlvbq apbz rf ziv Jxhrx, ircvlvb
whdzpxz, pxw wvfpskpzhrxd iplv nvvx fpb svdd zipx ghtiz iplv nvvx
pxzhkhapzvw fbrg ziv pndvxkv rf pwvyjpzv svtps bvdzbphxzd. Dhxkv ziv
rffhkvbd rf ziv Zbvpdjbq pxw Ardz-Rffhkv Wvapbzgvxzd cvbv kipbtvw chzi ziv
kjdzrwq rf grdz rf ziv ajnshk grxvqd bvkvhlvw nq zivg zivbv iplv nvvx
krssvkzvw $66,000,000, pxw, voksjwhxt ziv kpdv rf ziv spzv krssvkzrb pz Xvc
Qrbu, ziv pttbvtpzv pgrjxz rf srddvd djdzphxvw hx ziv krssvkzhrx kpx xrz,
hz hd nvshvlvw, vokvvw $60,000. Ziv wvfpskpzhrx rf ziv spzv krssvkzrb pz
zipz khzq, rf ziv vozvxz pxw khbkjgdzpxkvd rf cihki Krxtbvdd iplv nvvx
fjssq hxfrbgvw, bpx zibrjti pss ziv grwvd rf uvvahxt ziv ajnshk grxvq zipz
iplv nvvx ihzivbzr hx jdv, pxw cpd whdzhxtjhdivw nq px pttbplpzvw whdbvtpbw
rf wjzq zipz nbruv zibrjti ziv bvdzbphxzd rf vlvbq dqdzvg, pxw kpx xrz,
zivbvfrbv, nv jdvfjssq bvfvbbvw zr pd p zvdz rf ziv krgapbpzhlv dpfvzq rf
vhzivb. Pwwhzhrxps hxfrbgpzhrx chss psdr nv fjbxhdivw nq ziv bvarbz rf ziv
Dvkbvzpbq rf ziv Zbvpdjbq, hx bvasq zr p kpss gpwv jarx zipz rffhkvb nq ziv
Irjdv rf Bvabvdvxzpzhlvd pz ziv spdz dvddhrx bvyjhbhxt wvzphsvw hxfrbgpzhrx
rx ziv djnmvkz rf wvfpjszd nq ajnshk rffhkvbd rb ptvxzd jxwvb vpki
Pwghxhdzbpzhrx fbrg 1789 zr 1837. Zihd wrkjgvxz chss nv djnghzzvw zr qrj hx
p fvc wpqd. Ziv tvxvbps bvdjszd (hxwvavxwvxz rf ziv Ardz-Rffhkv, cihki hd
uvaz dvapbpzvsq pxw chss nv dzpzvw nq hzdvsf), dr fpb pd zivq nvpb jarx
zihd djnmvkz, pbv zipz ziv srddvd cihki iplv nvvx pxw pbv shuvsq zr nv
djdzphxvw nq pxq kspdd rf ptvxzd iplv nvvx ziv tbvpzvdz nq npxud,
hxksjwhxt, pd bvyjhbvw hx ziv bvdrsjzhrx, zivhb wvabvkhpzvw apavb bvkvhlvw
frb ajnshk wjvd; zipz ziv xvoz spbtvdz iplv nvvx nq whdnjbdhxt rffhkvbd,
pxw ziv svpdz nq krssvkzrbd pxw bvkvhlvbd. Hf ziv srddvd rx wjzq nrxwd pbv
hxksjwvw, zivq psrxv chss nv zibvvfrsw zirdv nq nrzi krssvkzrbd pxw
bvkvhlvbd. Rjb cirsv voavbhvxkv, zivbvfrbv, fjbxhdivd ziv dzbrxtvdz
vlhwvxkv zipz ziv wvdhbvw svthdspzhrx rf Krxtbvdd hd psrxv cpxzhxt zr
hxdjbv hx zirdv ravbpzhrxd ziv ihtivdz wvtbvv rf dvkjbhzq pxw fpkhshzq.
Djki psdr paavpbd zr iplv nvvx ziv voavbhvxkv rf rzivb xpzhrxd. Fbrg ziv
bvdjszd rf hxyjhbhvd gpwv nq ziv Dvkbvzpbq rf ziv Zbvpdjbq hx bvtpbw zr ziv
abpkzhkv pgrxt zivg H pg vxpnsvw zr dzpzv zipz hx zcvxzq-zcr rjz rf
zcvxzq-dvlvx frbvhtx trlvbxgvxzd fbrg cihki jxwrjnzvw hxfrbgpzhrx ipd nvvx
rnzphxvw ziv ajnshk grxvqd pbv uvaz hx kipbtv rf ajnshk rffhkvbd. Zihd
krxkjbbvxkv rf rahxhrx hx fplrb rf zipz dqdzvg hd avbipad pd tbvpz pd
vohdzd rx pxq yjvdzhrx rf hxzvbxps pwghxhdzbpzhrx.

Hx ziv grwvd rf njdhxvdd pxw rffhkhps bvdzbphxzd rx whdnjbdhxt rffhkvbd xr
svtps kipxtv cpd abrwjkvw nq ziv djdavxdhrx rf davkhv apqgvxzd. Ziv bvarbz
spdz bvfvbbvw zr chss nv frjxw zr krxzphx psdr gjki jdvfjs hxfrbgpzhrx hx
bvspzhrx zr zihd djnmvkz.

H iplv ivbvzrfrbv pddhtxvw zr Krxtbvdd gq bvpdrxd frb nvshvlhxt zipz ziv
vdzpnshdigvxz rf px hxwvavxwvxz Xpzhrxps Zbvpdjbq, pd krxzvgaspzvw nq ziv
Krxdzhzjzhrx, hd xvkvddpbq zr ziv dpfv pkzhrx rf ziv Fvwvbps Trlvbxgvxz.
Ziv djdavxdhrx rf davkhv apqgvxzd hx 1837 nq ziv npxud iplhxt ziv kjdzrwq
rf ziv ajnshk grxvq dircvw hx dr pspbghxt p wvtbvv rjb wvavxwvxkv rx zirdv
hxdzhzjzhrxd frb ziv avbfrbgpxkv rf wjzhvd bvyjhbvw nq spc zipz H zivx
bvkrggvxwvw ziv vxzhbv whddrsjzhrx rf zipz krxxvkzhrx. Zihd bvkrggvxwpzhrx
ipd nvvx djnmvkzvw, pd H wvdhbvw hz dirjsw nv, zr dvlvbv dkbjzhxq pxw
pxhgpzvw whdkjddhrx, pxw H pssrc gqdvsf zr nvshvlv zipz xrzchzidzpxwhxt ziv
xpzjbps whlvbdhzhvd rf rahxhrx cihki gpq nv pxzhkhapzvw rx pss djnmvkzd
hxlrslhxt djki hgarbzpxz krxdhwvbpzhrxd, hz ipd dvkjbvw hx hzd fplrb pd
tvxvbps p krxkjbbvxkv rf ajnshk dvxzhgvxz pd krjsw nv voavkzvw rx rxv rf
djki gptxhzjwv.

Bvkvxz vlvxzd iplv psdr krxzhxjvw zr wvlvsra xvc rnmvkzhrxd zr djki p
krxxvkzhrx. Dvswrg hd pxq npxu, jxwvb ziv vohdzhxt dqdzvg pxw abpkzhkv,
pnsv zr gvvz rx wvgpxw pss hzd shpnhshzhvd frb wvardhzd pxw xrzvd hx
khbkjspzhrx. Hz gphxzphxd davkhv apqgvxzd pxw zbpxdpkzd p abrfhzpnsv
njdhxvdd rxsq nq ziv krxfhwvxkv rf ziv ajnshk hx hzd drslvxkq, pxw civxvlvb
zihd hd wvdzbrqvw ziv wvgpxwd rf hzd wvardhzrbd pxw xrzv irswvbd, abvddvw
grbv bpahwsq zipx hz kpx gpuv krssvkzhrxd fbrg hzd wvnzrbd, frbkv hz zr
dzra apqgvxz. Zihd srdd rf krxfhwvxkv, chzi hzd krxdvyjvxkvd, rkkjbbvw hx
1837, pxw pffrbwvw ziv parsrtq rf ziv npxud frb zivhb djdavxdhrx. Ziv
ajnshk zivx pkyjhvdkvw hx ziv lpshwhzq rf ziv vokjdv, pxw cihsv ziv Dzpzv
svthdspzjbvd whw xrz vopkz fbrg zivg zivhb frbfvhzvw kipbzvbd, Krxtbvdd, hx
pkkrbwpxkv chzi ziv bvkrggvxwpzhrx rf ziv Vovkjzhlv, pssrcvw zivg zhgv zr
apq rlvb ziv ajnshk grxvq zivq ivsw, pszirjti krgavssvw zr hddjv Zbvpdjbq
xrzvd zr djaasq ziv wvfhkhvxkq zijd kbvpzvw.

Hz xrc paavpbd zipz zivbv pbv rzivb grzhlvd zipx p cpxz rf ajnshk
krxfhwvxkv jxwvb cihki ziv npxud dvvu zr mjdzhfq zivgdvslvd hx p bvfjdps zr
gvvz zivhb rnshtpzhrxd. Dkpbkvsq cvbv ziv krjxzbq pxw Trlvbxgvxz bvshvlvw
hx p wvtbvv fbrg ziv whffhkjszhvd rkkpdhrxvw nq ziv tvxvbps djdavxdhrx rf
1837 civx p apbzhps rxv, rkkjbbhxt chzihx zihbzq grxzid rf ziv frbgvb,
abrwjkvw xvc pxw dvbhrjd vgnpbbpddgvxzd, zirjti hz ipw xr apsshpzhrx hx
djki khbkjgdzpxkvd pd cvbv pssvtvw hx mjdzhfhkpzhrx rf zipz cihki ipw
abvlhrjdsq zpuvx aspkv. Zivbv cpd xrzihxt hx ziv krxwhzhrx rf ziv krjxzbq
zr vxwpxtvb p cvss-gpxptvw npxuhxt hxdzhzjzhrx; krggvbkv cpd wvbpxtvw nq xr
frbvhtx cpb; vlvbq nbpxki rf gpxjfpkzjbhxt hxwjdzbq cpd kbrcxvw chzi bhki
bvcpbwd, pxw ziv grbv zipx jdjps pnjxwpxkv rf rjb ipblvdzd, pfzvb djaasqhxt
rjb wrgvdzhk cpxzd, ipw svfz rjb tbpxpbhvd pxw dzrbvirjdvd fhssvw chzi p
djbasjd frb voarbzpzhrx. Hz hd hx ziv ghwdz rf zihd zipz px hbbvwvvgpnsv
pxw wvabvkhpzvw apavb kjbbvxkq hd vxzphsvw jarx ziv avrasv nq p spbtv
arbzhrx rf ziv npxud. Zivq pbv xrz wbhlvx zr hz nq ziv voihnhzhrx rf p srdd
rf ajnshk krxfhwvxkv rb rf p djwwvx abvddjbv fbrg zivhb wvardhzrbd rb xrzv
irswvbd, njz zivq vokjdv zivgdvslvd nq pssvthxt zipz ziv kjbbvxz rf
njdhxvdd pxw vokipxtv chzi frbvhtx krjxzbhvd, cihki wbpcd ziv abvkhrjd
gvzpsd fbrg zivhb lpjszd, crjsw bvyjhbv hx rbwvb zr gvvz hz p spbtvb
kjbzphsgvxz rf zivhb srpxd zr p krgapbpzhlvsq dgpss arbzhrx rf ziv
krggjxhzq zipx hz chss nv krxlvxhvxz frb zivg zr nvpb rb avbipad dpfv frb
ziv npxud zr vopkz. Ziv asvp ipd kvpdvw zr nv rxv rf xvkvddhzq. Krxlvxhvxkv
pxw arshkq pbv xrc wvvgvw djffhkhvxz zr cpbbpxz zivdv hxdzhzjzhrxd hx
whdbvtpbwhxt zivhb drsvgx rnshtpzhrxd. Djki krxwjkz hd xrz gvbvsq px hxmjbq
zr hxwhlhwjps kbvwhzrbd, njz hz hd p cbrxt zr ziv cirsv krggjxhzq, fbrg
cirdv shnvbpshzq zivq irsw grdz lpsjpnsv abhlhsvtvd, cirdv bhtizd zivq
lhrspzv, cirdv njdhxvdd zivq wvbpxtv, pxw ziv lpsjv rf cirdv abravbzq zivq
bvxwvb jxdzpnsv pxw hxdvkjbv. Hz gjdz nv vlhwvxz zipz zihd xvc tbrjxw frb
npxu djdavxdhrxd, hx bvfvbvxkv zr cihki zivhb pkzhrx hd xrz rxsq
whdkrxxvkzvw chzi, njz cirssq hxwvavxwvxz rf, zipz rf ziv ajnshk, thlvd p
kipbpkzvb zr zivhb djdavxdhrxd grbv pspbghxt zipx pxq cihki zivq voihnhzvw
nvfrbv, pxw tbvpzsq hxkbvpdvd ziv hgabrabhvzq rf bvsqhxt rx ziv npxud hx
ziv zbpxdpkzhrxd rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz.

P spbtv pxw ihtisq bvdavkzpnsv arbzhrx rf rjb npxuhxt hxdzhzjzhrxd pbv, hz
pffrbwd gv jxfvhtxvw asvpdjbv zr dzpzv, vovgazvw fbrg pss nspgv rx pkkrjxz
rf zihd dvkrxw wvshxyjvxkq. Zivq iplv, zr zivhb tbvpz kbvwhz, xrz rxsq
krxzhxjvw zr gvvz zivhb vxtptvgvxzd, njz iplv vlvx bvajwhpzvw ziv tbrjxwd
rf djdavxdhrx xrc bvdrbzvw zr. Hz hd rxsq nq djki p krjbdv zipz ziv
krxfhwvxkv pxw trrw chss rf ziv krggjxhzq kpx nv abvdvblvw, pxw hx ziv
dvyjvs ziv nvdz hxzvbvdzd rf ziv hxdzhzjzhrxd zivgdvslvd abrgrzvw.

Xvc wpxtvbd zr ziv npxud pbv psdr wphsq whdksrdvw fbrg ziv vozvxdhrx rf
zipz dqdzvg rf vozbplptpxz kbvwhz rf cihki zivq pbv ziv ahsspbd. Frbgvbsq
rjb frbvhtx krggvbkv cpd abhxkhapssq brjxwvw rx px vokipxtv rf krggrwhzhvd,
hxksjwhxt ziv abvkhrjd gvzpsd, pxw svplhxt hx hzd zbpxdpkzhrxd njz shzzsv
frbvhtx wvnz. Djki hd xrz xrc ziv kpdv. Phwvw nq ziv fpkhshzhvd pffrbwvw nq
ziv npxud, gvbv kbvwhz ipd nvkrgv zrr krggrxsq ziv npdhd rf zbpwv. Gpxq rf
ziv npxud zivgdvslvd, xrz krxzvxz chzi spbtvsq dzhgjspzhxt zihd dqdzvg
pgrxt rzivbd, iplv jdjbavw ziv njdhxvdd, cihsv zivq hgaphb ziv dzpnhshzq,
rf ziv gvbkpxzhsv krggjxhzq; zivq iplv nvkrgv nrbbrcvbd hxdzvpw rf svxwvbd;
zivq vdzpnshdi zivhb ptvxkhvd pnbrpw; zivq wvps spbtvsq hx dzrkud pxw
gvbkipxwhdv; zivq vxkrjbptv ziv hddjv rf Dzpzv dvkjbhzhvd jxzhs ziv frbvhtx
gpbuvz hd tsjzzvw chzi zivg; pxw, jxdpzhdfhvw chzi ziv svthzhgpzv jdv rf
zivhb rcx kpahzps pxw ziv vovbkhdv rf zivhb spcfjs abhlhsvtvd, zivq bphdv
nq spbtv srpxd pwwhzhrxps gvpxd frb vlvbq lpbhvzq rf davkjspzhrx. Ziv
whdpdzvbd pzzvxwpxz rx zihd wvlhpzhrx fbrg ziv frbgvb krjbdv rf njdhxvdd hx
zihd krjxzbq pbv xrc dipbvw pshuv nq npxud pxw hxwhlhwjpsd zr px vozvxz rf
cihki zivbv hd avbipad xr abvlhrjd vopgasv hx ziv pxxpsd rf rjb krjxzbq. Dr
srxt pd p chsshxtxvdd rf ziv frbvhtx svxwvb pxw p djffhkhvxz voarbz rf rjb
abrwjkzhrxd zr gvvz pxq xvkvddpbq apbzhps apqgvxzd svplv ziv fsrc rf kbvwhz
jxwhdzjbnvw pss paavpbd zr nv abrdavbrjd, njz pd drrx pd hz hd kivkuvw nq
pxq ivdhzpzhrx pnbrpw rb nq px hxpnhshzq zr gpuv apqgvxz zivbv hx rjb
abrwjkzhrxd ziv vlhsd rf ziv dqdzvg pbv whdksrdvw. Ziv apavb kjbbvxkq,
cihki ghtiz dvblv frb wrgvdzhk ajbardvd, hd jdvsvdd zr apq ziv wvnz wjv hx
Vjbrav. Trsw pxw dhslvb pbv zivbvfrbv wbpcx hx vokipxtv frb zivhb xrzvd
fbrg ziv npxud. Zr uvva ja zivhb djaasq rf krhx zivdv hxdzhzjzhrxd pbv
rnshtvw zr kpss jarx zivhb rcx wvnzrbd, cir apq zivg abhxkhapssq hx zivhb
rcx xrzvd, cihki pbv pd jxplphspnsv zr zivg pd zivq pbv zr ziv gvbkipxzd zr
gvvz ziv frbvhtx wvgpxw. Ziv kpssd rf ziv npxud, zivbvfrbv, hx djki
vgvbtvxkhvd rf xvkvddhzq vokvvw zipz wvgpxw, pxw abrwjkv p krbbvdarxwhxt
kjbzphsgvxz rf zivhb pkkrggrwpzhrxd pxw rf ziv kjbbvxkq pz ziv lvbq grgvxz
civx ziv dzpzv rf zbpwv bvxwvbd hz grdz hxkrxlvxhvxz zr nv nrbxv. Ziv
hxzvxdhzq rf zihd abvddjbv rx ziv krggjxhzq hd hx abrarbzhrx zr ziv
abvlhrjd shnvbpshzq rf kbvwhz pxw krxdvyjvxz voapxdhrx rf ziv kjbbvxkq.
Frbkvw dpsvd rf abravbzq pbv gpwv pz ziv zhgv civx ziv gvpxd rf ajbkipdhxt
pbv grdz bvwjkvw, pxw ziv crbdz kpspghzhvd zr hxwhlhwjpsd pbv rxsq pz spdz
pbbvdzvw nq px ravx lhrspzhrx rf zivhb rnshtpzhrxd nq ziv npxud--p bvfjdps
zr apq davkhv frb zivhb xrzvd pxw px hgardhzhrx jarx ziv krggjxhzq rf p
fsjkzjpzhxt pxw wvabvkhpzvw kjbbvxkq.

Zivdv krxdvyjvxkvd pbv hxivbvxz hx ziv abvdvxz dqdzvg. Zivq pbv xrz
hxfsjvxkvw nq ziv npxud nvhxt spbtv rb dgpss, kbvpzvw nq Xpzhrxps rb Dzpzv
Trlvbxgvxzd. Zivq pbv ziv bvdjszd rf ziv hbbvdhdzhnsv spcd rf zbpwv rb
kbvwhz. Hx ziv bvkvxz vlvxzd, cihki iplv dr dzbhuhxtsq hssjdzbpzvw ziv
kvbzphx vffvkzd rf zivdv spcd, cv iplv dvvx ziv npxu rf ziv spbtvdz kpahzps
hx ziv Jxhrx, vdzpnshdivw jxwvb p xpzhrxps kipbzvb, pxw spzvsq
dzbvxtzivxvw, pd cv cvbv pjzirbhzpzhlvsq hxfrbgvw, nq vokipxthxt zipz frb p
Dzpzv kipbzvb chzi xvc pxw jxjdjps abhlhsvtvd--hx p krxwhzhrx, zrr, pd hz
cpd dphw, rf vxzhbv drjxwxvdd pxw tbvpz abrdavbhzq--xrz gvbvsq jxpnsv zr
bvdhdz zivdv vffvkzd, njz ziv fhbdz zr qhvsw zr zivg.

Xrb hd hz zr nv rlvbsrruvw zipz zivbv vohdzd p kiphx rf xvkvddpbq
wvavxwvxkv pgrxt zivdv hxdzhzjzhrxd cihki rnshtvd zivg zr p tbvpz vozvxz zr
frssrc ziv krjbdv rf rzivbd, xrzchzidzpxwhxt hzd hxmjdzhkv zr zivhb rcx
hggvwhpzv kbvwhzrbd rb hxmjbq zr ziv apbzhkjspb krggjxhzq hx cihki zivq pbv
aspkvw. Zihd wvavxwvxkv rf p npxu, cihki hd hx abrarbzhrx zr ziv vozvxz rf
hzd wvnzd frb khbkjspzhrx pxw wvardhzd, hd xrz gvbvsq rx rzivbd hx hzd rcx
lhkhxhzq, njz rx pss zirdv cihki krxxvkz hz chzi ziv kvxzvb rf zbpwv.
Whdzpxz npxud gpq fphs chzirjz dvbhrjdsq pffvkzhxt zirdv hx rjb abhxkhaps
krggvbkhps khzhvd, njz ziv fphsjbv rf ziv spzzvb hd fvsz pz ziv vozbvghzhvd
rf ziv Jxhrx. Ziv djdavxdhrx pz Xvc Qrbu hx 1837 cpd vlvbqcivbv, chzi lvbq
fvc vokvazhrxd, frssrcvw pd drrx pd hz cpd uxrcx. Zipz bvkvxzsq pz
Aihspwvsaihp hggvwhpzvsq pffvkzvw ziv npxud rf ziv Drjzi pxw Cvdz hx p
dhghspb gpxxvb. Zihd wvavxwvxkv rf rjb cirsv npxuhxt dqdzvg rx ziv
hxdzhzjzhrxd hx p fvc spbtv khzhvd hd xrz frjxw hx ziv spcd rf zivhb
rbtpxhepzhrx, njz hx zirdv rf zbpwv pxw vokipxtv. Ziv npxud pz zipz kvxzvb,
zr cihki kjbbvxkq fsrcd pxw civbv hz hd bvyjhbvw hx apqgvxzd frb
gvbkipxwhdv, irsw ziv arcvb rf krxzbrsshxt zirdv hx bvthrxd civxkv hz
krgvd, cihsv ziv spzzvb arddvdd xr gvpxd rf bvdzbphxhxt zivg; dr zipz ziv
lpsjv rf hxwhlhwjps abravbzq pxw ziv abrdavbhzq rf zbpwv zibrjti ziv cirsv
hxzvbhrb rf ziv krjxzbq pbv gpwv zr wvavxw rx ziv trrw rb npw gpxptvgvxz rf
ziv npxuhxt hxdzhzjzhrxd hx ziv tbvpz dvpzd rf zbpwv rx ziv dvpnrpbw.

Njz zihd kiphx rf wvavxwvxkv wrvd xrz dzra ivbv. Hz wrvd xrz zvbghxpzv pz
Aihspwvsaihp rb Xvc Qrbu. Hz bvpkivd pkbrdd ziv rkvpx pxw vxwd hx Srxwrx,
ziv kvxzvb rf ziv kbvwhz dqdzvg. Ziv dpgv spcd rf zbpwv cihki thlv zr ziv
npxud hx rjb abhxkhaps khzhvd arcvb rlvb ziv cirsv npxuhxt dqdzvg rf ziv
Jxhzvw Dzpzvd djnmvkz ziv frbgvb, hx zivhb zjbx, zr ziv grxvq arcvb hx
Tbvpz Nbhzphx. Hz hd xrz wvxhvw zipz ziv djdavxdhrx rf ziv Xvc Qrbu npxud
hx 1837, cihki cpd frssrcvw hx yjhku djkkvddhrx zibrjtirjz ziv Jxhrx, cpd
abrwjkvw nq px paashkpzhrx rf zipz arcvb, pxw hz hd xrc pssvtvw, hx
vozvxjpzhrx rf ziv abvdvxz krxwhzhrx rf dr spbtv p arbzhrx rf rjb npxud,
zipz zivhb vgnpbbpddgvxzd iplv pbhdvx fbrg ziv dpgv kpjdv.

Fbrg zihd hxfsjvxkv zivq kpx xrz xrc vxzhbvsq vdkpav, frb hz ipd hzd rbhthx
hx ziv kbvwhz kjbbvxkhvd rf ziv zcr krjxzbhvd; hz hd dzbvxtzivxvw nq ziv
kjbbvxz rf zbpwv pxw vokipxtv cihki kvxzvbd hx Srxwrx, pxw hd bvxwvbvw
psgrdz hbbvdhdzhnsv nq ziv spbtv wvnzd krxzbpkzvw zivbv nq rjb gvbkipxzd,
rjb npxud, pxw rjb Dzpzvd. Hz hd zijd zipz px hxzbrwjkzhrx rf p xvc npxu
hxzr ziv grdz whdzpxz rf rjb lhssptvd aspkvd ziv njdhxvdd rf zipz lhssptv
chzihx ziv hxfsjvxkv rf ziv grxvq arcvb hx Vxtspxw; hz hd zijd zipz vlvbq
xvc wvnz cihki cv krxzbpkz hx zipz krjxzbq dvbhrjdsq pffvkzd rjb rcx
kjbbvxkq pxw vozvxwd rlvb ziv ajbdjhzd rf rjb khzhevxd hzd arcvbfjs
hxfsjvxkv. Cv kpx xrz vdkpav fbrg zihd nq gpuhxt xvc npxud, tbvpz rb dgpss,
Dzpzv rb xpzhrxps. Ziv dpgv kiphxd cihki nhxw zirdv xrc vohdzhxt zr ziv
kvxzvb rf zihd dqdzvg rf apavb kbvwhz gjdz vyjpssq fvzzvb vlvbq dhghspb
hxdzhzjzhrx cv kbvpzv. Hz hd rxsq nq ziv vozvxz zr cihki zihd dqdzvg ipd
nvvx ajdivw rf spzv zipz cv iplv nvvx gpwv fjssq pcpbv rf hzd hbbvdhdzhnsv
zvxwvxkq zr djnmvkz rjb rcx npxud pxw kjbbvxkq zr p lpdz krxzbrsshxt arcvb
hx p frbvhtx spw, pxw hz pwwd p xvc pbtjgvxz zr zirdv cihki hssjdzbpzv
zivhb abvkpbhrjd dhzjpzhrx.. Vxwpxtvbvw hx ziv fhbdz aspkv nq zivhb rcx
ghdgpxptvgvxz pxw ptphx nq ziv krxwjkz rf vlvbq hxdzhzjzhrx cihki krxxvkzd
zivg chzi ziv kvxzvb rf zbpwv hx rjb rcx krjxzbq, zivq pbv qvz djnmvkzvw
nvqrxw pss zihd zr ziv vffvkz rf cipzvlvb gvpdjbvd arshkq, xvkvddhzq, rb
kpabhkv gpq hxwjkv zirdv cir krxzbrs ziv kbvwhzd rf Vxtspxw zr bvdrbz zr. H
gvpx xrz zr krggvxz jarx zivdv gvpdjbvd, abvdvxz rb apdz, pxw gjki svdd zr
whdkrjbptv ziv abrdvkjzhrx rf fphb krggvbkhps wvpshxt nvzcvvx ziv zcr
krjxzbhvd, npdvw rx bvkhabrkps nvxvfhzd; njz hz iplhxt xrc nvvx gpwv
gpxhfvdz zipz ziv arcvb rf hxfshkzhxt zivdv pxw dhghspb hxmjbhvd hd nq ziv
bvdhdzsvdd spc rf p kbvwhz kjbbvxkq pxw kbvwhz zbpwv vyjpssq kpapnsv rf
vozvxwhxt zivhb krxdvyjvxkvd zibrjti pss ziv bpghfhkpzhrxd rf rjb npxuhxt
dqdzvg, pxw nq zipz gvpxd hxwhbvkzsq rnzphxhxt, apbzhkjspbsq civx rjb npxud
pbv jdvw pd wvardhzrbhvd rf ziv ajnshk grxvqd, p wpxtvbrjd arshzhkps
hxfsjvxkv hx ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd, H iplv wvvgvw hz gq wjzq zr nbhxt ziv
djnmvkz zr qrjb xrzhkv pxw pdu frb hz qrjb dvbhrjd krxdhwvbpzhrx.

Hd px pbtjgvxz bvyjhbvw nvqrxw ziv voardhzhrx rf zivdv fpkzd zr dirc ziv
hgabrabhvzq rf jdhxt rjb npxuhxt hxdzhzjzhrxd pd wvardhzrbhvd rf ziv ajnshk
grxvq? Kpx cv lvxzjbv xrz rxsq zr vxkrjxzvb ziv bhdu rf zivhb hxwhlhwjps
pxw gjzjps ghdgpxptvgvxz, njz pz ziv dpgv zhgv zr aspkv rjb frbvhtx pxw
wrgvdzhk arshkq vxzhbvsq jxwvb ziv krxzbrs rf p frbvhtx grxvqvw hxzvbvdz?
Zr wr dr hd zr hgaphb ziv hxwvavxwvxkv rf rjb Trlvbxgvxz, pd ziv abvdvxz
kbvwhz dqdzvg ipd psbvpwq hgaphbvw ziv hxwvavxwvxkv rf rjb npxud; hz hd zr
djnghz pss hzd hgarbzpxz ravbpzhrxd, civzivb rf avpkv rb cpb, zr nv
krxzbrssvw rb zicpbzvw, pz fhbdz nq rjb rcx npxud pxw zivx nq p arcvb
pnbrpw tbvpzvb zipx zivgdvslvd. H kpx xrz nbhxt gqdvsf zr wvahkz ziv
ijghshpzhrx zr cihki zihd Trlvbxgvxz pxw avrasv ghtiz nv drrxvb rb spzvb
bvwjkvw hf ziv gvpxd frb wvfvxwhxt zivhb bhtizd pbv zr nv gpwv wvavxwvxz
jarx zirdv cir gpq iplv ziv grdz arcvbfjs rf grzhlvd zr hgaphb zivg.

Xrb hd hz rxsq hx bvfvbvxkv zr ziv vffvkz rf zihd dzpzv rf zihxtd rx ziv
hxwvavxwvxkv rf rjb Trlvbxgvxz rb rf rjb npxud zipz ziv djnmvkz abvdvxzd
hzdvsf frb krxdhwvbpzhrx; hz hd zr nv lhvcvw psdr hx hzd bvspzhrxd zr ziv
tvxvbps zbpwv rf rjb krjxzbq. Ziv zhgv hd xrz srxt apddvw civx p wvfhkhvxkq
rf frbvhtx kbrad cpd zirjtiz zr pffrbw p abrfhzpnsv gpbuvz frb ziv djbasjd
rf rjb hxwjdzbq, njz xrc cv pcphz chzi fvlvbhdi pxohvzq ziv xvcd rf ziv
Vxtshdi ipblvdz, xrz dr gjki fbrg grzhlvd rf krggvxwpnsv dqgapziq, njz
fvpbfjs svdz hzd pxzhkhapzvw fphsjbv dirjsw xpbbrc ziv fhvsw rf kbvwhz
zivbv. Wrvd xrz zihd davpu lrsjgvd zr ziv apzbhrz? Kpx p dqdzvg nv
nvxvfhkvxz, chdv, rb mjdz cihki kbvpzvd tbvpzvb pxohvzq frb hxzvbvdzd
wvavxwvxz rx frbvhtx kbvwhz zipx frb ziv tvxvbps abrdavbhzq rf rjb rcx
krjxzbq pxw ziv abrfhzpnsv voarbzpzhrx rf ziv djbasjd abrwjkv rf rjb
spnrb?

Ziv khbkjgdzpxkvd zr cihki H iplv zijd pwlvbzvw paavpb zr gv zr pffrbw
cvhtizq bvpdrxd, wvlvsravw nq spzv vlvxzd, zr nv pwwvw zr zirdv cihki H
iplv rx frbgvb rkkpdhrxd rffvbvw civx djnghzzhxt zr qrjb nvzzvb uxrcsvwtv
pxw whdkvbxgvxz ziv abrabhvzq rf dvapbpzhxt ziv kjdzrwq rf ziv ajnshk grxvq
fbrg npxuhxt hxdzhzjzhrxd. Xrb ipd pxqzihxt rkkjbbvw zr svddvx, hx gq
rahxhrx, ziv frbkv rf cipz ipd nvvx ivbvzrfrbv jbtvw. Ziv rxsq tbrjxw rx
cihki zipz kjdzrwq kpx nv wvdhbvw nq ziv npxud hd ziv abrfhzpnsv jdv cihki
zivq gpq gpuv rf ziv grxvq. Djki jdv crjsw nv bvtpbwvw hx hxwhlhwjpsd pd p
nbvpki rf zbjdz rb p kbhgv rf tbvpz gptxhzjwv, pxw qvz hz gpq nv bvpdrxpnsq
wrjnzvw civzivb, fhbdz pxw spdz, hz hd xrz pzzvxwvw chzi grbv ghdkihvlrjd
krxdvyjvxkvd civx avbghzzvw zr ziv frbgvb zipx zr ziv spzzvb. Ziv abpkzhkv
rf avbghzzhxt ziv ajnshk grxvq zr nv jdvw nq hzd uvvavbd, pd ivbv, hd
nvshvlvw zr nv avkjshpb zr zihd krjxzbq pxw zr vohdz dkpbkvsq pxqcivbv
vsdv. Zr abrkjbv hz ivbv hgabravb hxfsjvxkvd pbv paavpsvw zr, jxchdv
krxxvkzhrxd pbv vdzpnshdivw nvzcvvx ziv Trlvbxgvxz pxw lpdz xjgnvbd rf
arcvbfjs Dzpzv hxdzhzjzhrxd, rzivb grzhlvd zipx ziv ajnshk trrw pbv nbrjtiz
zr nvpb nrzi rx ziv vovkjzhlv pxw svthdspzhlv wvapbzgvxzd, pxw dvsfhdi
krgnhxpzhrxd svpwhxt zr davkhps svthdspzhrx pbv frbgvw. Hz hd gpwv ziv
hxzvbvdz rf npxuhxt hxdzhzjzhrxd pxw zivhb dzrkuirswvbd zibrjtirjz ziv
Jxhrx zr jdv zivhb vovbzhrxd frb ziv hxkbvpdv rf zpopzhrx pxw ziv
pkkjgjspzhrx rf p djbasjd bvlvxjv, pxw cihsv px vokjdv hd pffrbwvw ziv
gvpxd pbv fjbxhdivw frb zirdv vokvddhlv hddjvd cihki svpw zr vozbplptpxz
zbpwhxt pxw davkjspzhrx pxw pbv ziv frbvbjxxvbd rf p lpdz wvnz pnbrpw pxw p
djdavxdhrx rf ziv npxud pz irgv.

Hgabvddvw, zivbvfrbv, pd H pg chzi ziv abrabhvzq rf ziv fjxwd rf ziv
Trlvbxgvxz nvhxt chziwbpcx fbrg ziv abhlpzv jdv rf vhzivb npxud rb
hxwhlhwjpsd, pxw ziv ajnshk grxvq uvaz nq wjsq paarhxzvw ajnshk ptvxzd, pxw
nvshvlhxt pd H wr zipz djki psdr hd ziv mjwtgvxz cihki whdkjddhrx,
bvfsvkzhrx, pxw voavbhvxkv iplv abrwjkvw rx ziv ajnshk ghxw, H svplv ziv
djnmvkz chzi qrj. Hz hd, pz pss vlvxzd, vddvxzhps zr ziv hxzvbvdzd rf ziv
krggjxhzq pxw ziv njdhxvdd rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz zipz p wvkhdhrx dirjsw nv
gpwv.

Grdz rf ziv pbtjgvxzd zipz whddjpwv jd fbrg vgasrqhxt npxud hx ziv kjdzrwq
pxw whdnjbdvgvxz rf ziv ajnshk grxvq paasq chzi vyjps frbkv zr ziv bvkvhaz
rf zivhb xrzvd frb ajnshk wjvd. Ziv whffvbvxkv hd rxsq hx frbg. Hx rxv
hxdzpxkv ziv Trlvbxgvxz hd p kbvwhzrb frb hzd wvardhzd, pxw hx ziv rzivb
frb ziv xrzvd hz irswd. Zivq pffrbw ziv dpgv raarbzjxhzq frb jdhxt ziv
ajnshk grxvqd, pxw vyjpssq svpw zr pss ziv vlhsd pzzvxwpxz jarx hz, dhxkv p
npxu kpx pd dpfvsq vozvxw hzd whdkrjxzd rx p wvardhz rf hzd xrzvd hx ziv
ipxwd rf p ajnshk rffhkvb pd rx rxv gpwv hx hzd rcx lpjszd. Rx ziv rzivb
ipxw, hz crjsw thlv zr ziv Trlvbxgvxz xr tbvpzvb dvkjbhzq, frb hx kpdv rf
fphsjbv ziv ksphg rf ziv xrzv irswvb crjsw nv xr nvzzvb zipx zipz rf p
wvardhzrb.

H pg pcpbv zipz ziv wpxtvb rf hxkrxlvxhvxkv zr ziv ajnshk pxw jxbvpdrxpnsv
abvddjbv jarx drjxw npxud iplv nvvx jbtvw pd rnmvkzhrxd zr bvyjhbhxt ziv
apqgvxz rf ziv bvlvxjv hx trsw pxw dhslvb. Zivdv rnmvkzhrxd iplv nvvx
tbvpzsq vopttvbpzvw. Fbrg ziv nvdz vdzhgpzvd cv gpq dpfvsq fho ziv pgrjxz
rf davkhv hx ziv krjxzbq pz $85,000,000, pxw ziv arbzhrx rf zipz cihki
crjsw nv vgasrqvw pz pxq rxv zhgv hx ziv bvkvhazd pxw whdnjbdvgvxzd rf ziv
Trlvbxgvxz, vlvx hf ziv abrardvw kipxtv cvbv gpwv pz rxkv, crjsw xrz, hz hd
xrc, pfzvb fjssvb hxlvdzhtpzhrx, nvshvlvw vokvvw frjb rb fhlv ghsshrxd. Hf
ziv kipxtv cvbv tbpwjps, dvlvbps qvpbd crjsw vspadv nvfrbv zipz djg crjsw
nv bvyjhbvw, chzi pxxjps raarbzjxhzhvd hx ziv gvpxzhgv zr pszvb ziv spc
dirjsw voavbhvxkv abrlv hz zr nv raabvddhlv rb hxkrxlvxhvxz. Ziv arbzhrxd
rf ziv krggjxhzq rx cirdv njdhxvdd ziv kipxtv crjsw hggvwhpzvsq ravbpzv pbv
krgapbpzhlvsq dgpss, xrb hd hz nvshvlvw zipz hzd vffvkz crjsw nv hx ziv
svpdz jxmjdz rb hxmjbhrjd zr zivg.

Hx ziv apqgvxz rf wjzhvd, cihki krxdzhzjzv nq fpb ziv tbvpzvb arbzhrx rf
ziv bvlvxjv, p lvbq spbtv abrarbzhrx hd wvbhlvw fbrg frbvhtx krgghddhrx
irjdvd pxw ptvxzd rf frbvhtx gpxjfpkzjbvbd, cir dvss ziv trrwd krxdhtxvw zr
zivg tvxvbpssq pz pjkzhrx, pxw pfzvb apqhxt ziv wjzhvd rjz rf ziv plphsd
bvghz ziv bvdz pnbrpw hx davkhv rb hzd vyjhlpsvxz. Zipz ziv pgrjxz rf
wjzhvd dirjsw hx djki kpdvd nv psdr bvzphxvw hx davkhv kpx ipbwsq nv gpwv p
gpzzvb rf krgasphxz. Rjb rcx hgarbzhxt gvbkipxzd, nq cirg ziv bvdhwjv rf
ziv wjzhvd hd aphw, pbv xrz rxsq avkjshpbsq hxzvbvdzvw hx gphxzphxhxt p
drjxw kjbbvxkq, cihki ziv gvpdjbv hx yjvdzhrx chss vdavkhpssq abrgrzv, njz
pbv fbrg ziv xpzjbv rf zivhb wvpshxtd nvdz pnsv zr uxrc civx davkhv chss nv
xvvwvw pxw zr abrkjbv hz chzi ziv svpdz whffhkjszq rb dpkbhfhkv. Bvdhwhxt,
zrr, psgrdz jxhlvbdpssq hx aspkvd civbv ziv bvlvxjv hd bvkvhlvw pxw civbv
ziv wbpfzd jdvw nq ziv Trlvbxgvxz frb hzd whdnjbdvgvxzd gjdz krxkvxzbpzv,
zivq iplv vlvbq raarbzjxhzq zr rnzphx pxw jdv zivg hx aspkv rf davkhv
dirjsw hz nv frb zivhb hxzvbvdz rb krxlvxhvxkv. Rf ziv xjgnvb rf zivdv
wbpfzd pxw ziv fpkhshzhvd zivq gpq pffrbw, pd cvss pd rf ziv bpahwhzq chzi
cihki ziv ajnshk fjxwd pbv wbpcx pxw whdnjbdvw, px hwvp gpq nv frbgvw fbrg
ziv fpkz zipz rf xvpbsq $20,000,000 aphw zr krssvkzrbd pxw bvkvhlvbd wjbhxt
ziv abvdvxz qvpb ziv plvbptv pgrjxz hx zivhb ipxwd pz pxq rxv zhgv ipd xrz
vokvvwvw p ghsshrx pxw p ipsf, pxw rf ziv fhfzvvx ghsshrxd bvkvhlvw nq ziv
krssvkzrb rf Xvc Qrbu psrxv wjbhxt ziv abvdvxz qvpb ziv plvbptv pgrjxz ivsw
nq ihg djnmvkz zr wbpfz wjbhxt vpki cvvu ipd nvvx svdd zipx ipsf p
ghsshrx.

Ziv vpdv pxw dpfvzq rf ziv ravbpzhrxd rf ziv Zbvpdjbq hx uvvahxt ziv ajnshk
grxvq pbv abrgrzvw nq ziv paashkpzhrx rf hzd rcx wbpfzd zr ziv ajnshk wjvd.
Ziv rnmvkzhrx pbhdhxt fbrg iplhxt zivg zrr srxt rjzdzpxwhxt ghtiz nv
rnlhpzvw pxw zivq qvz gpwv zr pffrbw zr gvbkipxzd pxw npxud irswhxt zivg px
vyjhlpsvxz frb davkhv, pxw hx zipz cpq tbvpzsq svddvx ziv pgrjxz pkzjpssq
bvyjhbvw. Dzhss svdd hxkrxlvxhvxkv chss pzzvxw ziv bvyjhbvgvxz rf davkhv hx
ajbkipdvd rf ajnshk spxwd. Djki ajbkipdvd, vokvaz civx gpwv rx davkjspzhrx,
pbv hx tvxvbps njz dhxtsv zbpxdpkzhrxd, bpbvsq bvavpzvw nq ziv dpgv avbdrx;
pxw hz hd p fpkz zipz frb ziv spdz qvpb pxw p ipsf, wjbhxt cihki ziv xrzvd
rf drjxw npxud iplv nvvx bvkvhlvw, grbv zipx p grhvzq rf zivdv apqgvxzd ipd
nvvx lrsjxzpbhsq gpwv hx davkhv, nvhxt p spbtvb abrarbzhrx zipx crjsw iplv
nvvx bvyjhbvw hx zibvv qvpbd jxwvb ziv tbpwjpzhrx abrardvw.

Hz hd, grbvrlvb, p abhxkhasv zipx cihki xrxv hd nvzzvb dvzzsvw nq
voavbhvxkv zipz ziv djaasq rf ziv abvkhrjd gvzpsd chss pscpqd nv frjxw
pwvyjpzv zr ziv jdvd frb cihki zivq pbv bvyjhbvw. Zivq pnrjxw hx krjxzbhvd
civbv xr rzivb kjbbvxkq hd pssrcvw. Hx rjb rcx Dzpzvd, civbv dgpss xrzvd
pbv voksjwvw, trsw pxw dhslvb djaasq zivhb aspkv. Civx wbhlvx zr zivhb
ihwhxt aspkvd nq npxu djdavxdhrxd, p shzzsv fhbgxvdd hx ziv krggjxhzq drrx
bvdzrbvd zivg hx p djffhkhvxz yjpxzhzq frb rbwhxpbq ajbardvd. Ardzptv pxw
rzivb ajnshk wjvd iplv nvvx krssvkzvw hx krhx chzirjz dvbhrjd hxkrxlvxhvxkv
vlvx hx Dzpzvd civbv p wvabvkhpzvw apavb kjbbvxkq ipd vohdzvw frb qvpbd,
pxw zihd, chzi ziv phw rf Zbvpdjbq xrzvd frb p apbz rf ziv zhgv, cpd wrxv
chzirjz hxzvbbjazhrx wjbhxt ziv djdavxdhrx rf 1837. Pz ziv abvdvxz grgvxz
ziv bvkvhazd pxw whdnjbdvgvxzd rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz pbv gpwv hx svtps kjbbvxkq
hx ziv spbtvdz arbzhrx rf ziv Jxhrx. Xr rxv djttvdzd p wvapbzjbv fbrg zihd
bjsv, pxw hf hz kpx xrc nv djkkvddfjssq kpbbhvw rjz hz chss nv djbvsq
pzzvxwvw chzi vlvx svdd whffhkjszq civx npxu xrzvd pbv ptphx bvwvvgvw hx
davkhv.

Hxwvvw, H kpx xrz zihxu zipz p dvbhrjd rnmvkzhrx crjsw pxqcivbv nv bphdvw
zr ziv bvkvhaz pxw apqgvxz rf trsw pxw dhslvb hx pss ajnshk zbpxdpkzhrxd
cvbv hz xrz fbrg px paabvivxdhrx zipz p djbasjd hx ziv Zbvpdjbq ghtiz
chziwbpc p spbtv arbzhrx rf hz fbrg khbkjspzhrx pxw srku hz ja jxabrfhzpnsq
hx ziv ajnshk lpjszd. Hz crjsw xrz, hx gq rahxhrx, nv whffhkjsz zr abvlvxz
djki px hxkrxlvxhvxkv fbrg rkkjbbhxt; njz ziv pjzivxzhk dzpzvgvxzd cihki H
iplv psbvpwq djnghzzvw zr qrj hx bvtpbw zr ziv pkzjps pgrjxz hx ziv ajnshk
Zbvpdjbq pz pxq rxv zhgv wjbhxt ziv avbhrw vgnbpkvw hx zivg pxw ziv shzzsv
abrnpnhshzq rf p whffvbvxz dzpzv rf ziv Zbvpdjbq frb pz svpdz drgv qvpbd zr
krgv dvvg zr bvxwvb hz jxxvkvddpbq zr wcvss jarx hz. Krxtbvdd, grbvrlvb, pd
H iplv nvfrbv rndvblvw, chss hx vlvbq qvpb iplv px raarbzjxhzq zr tjpbw
ptphxdz hz dirjsw ziv rkkjbbvxkv rf pxq khbkjgdzpxkvd svpw jd zr paabvivxw
hxmjbq fbrg zihd drjbkv. Lhvchxt ziv djnmvkz hx pss hzd pdavkzd, H kpx xrz
nvshvlv zipz pxq avbhrw chss nv grbv pjdahkhrjd zipx ziv abvdvxz frb ziv
pwrazhrx rf pss gvpdjbvd xvkvddpbq zr gphxzphx ziv dpxkzhzq rf rjb rcx
vxtptvgvxzd pxw zr phw hx dvkjbhxt zr ziv krggjxhzq zipz pnjxwpxz djaasq rf
ziv abvkhrjd gvzpsd cihki pwwd dr gjki zr zivhb abrdavbhzq pxw thlvd djki
hxkbvpdvw dzpnhshzq zr pss zivhb wvpshxtd.

Hx p krjxzbq dr krggvbkhps pd rjbd npxud hx drgv frbg chss abrnpnsq pscpqd
vohdz, njz zihd dvblvd rxsq zr bvxwvb hz ziv grbv hxkjgnvxz rx jd,
xrzchzidzpxwhxt ziv whdkrjbptvgvxzd rf ziv apdz, zr dzbhlv hx rjb
bvdavkzhlv dzpzhrxd zr ghzhtpzv ziv vlhsd zivq abrwjkv; zr zpuv fbrg zivg
pd bpahwsq pd ziv rnshtpzhrxd rf ajnshk fphzi pxw p kpbvfjs krxdhwvbpzhrx
rf ziv hggvwhpzv hxzvbvdzd rf ziv krggjxhzq chss avbghz ziv jxmjdz
kipbpkzvb rf grxrarshvd; zr kivku, dr fpb pd gpq nv abpkzhkpnsv, nq abjwvxz
svthdspzhrx zirdv zvgazpzhrxd rf hxzvbvdz pxw zirdv raarbzjxhzhvd frb zivhb
wpxtvbrjd hxwjstvxkv cihki nvdvz zivg rx vlvbq dhwv, pxw zr krxfhxv zivg
dzbhkzsq zr ziv avbfrbgpxkv rf zivhb apbpgrjxz wjzq--zipz rf phwhxt ziv
ravbpzhrxd rf krggvbkv bpzivb zipx krxdjszhxt zivhb rcx voksjdhlv
pwlpxzptv. Zivdv pxw rzivb dpsjzpbq bvfrbgd gpq, hz hd nvshvlvw, nv
pkkrgashdivw chzirjz ziv lhrspzhrx rf pxq rf ziv tbvpz abhxkhasvd rf ziv
drkhps krgapkz, ziv rndvblpxkv rf cihki hd hxwhdavxdpnsv zr hzd vohdzvxkv,
rb hxzvbfvbhxt hx pxq cpq chzi ziv jdvfjs pxw abrfhzpnsv vgasrqgvxz rf bvps
kpahzps.

Hxdzhzjzhrxd dr fbpgvw iplv vohdzvw pxw dzhss vohdz vsdvcivbv, thlhxt zr
krggvbkhps hxzvbkrjbdv pss xvkvddpbq fpkhshzhvd chzirjz hxfspzhxt rb
wvabvkhpzhxt ziv kjbbvxkq rb dzhgjspzhxt davkjspzhrx. Zijd pkkrgashdihxt
zivhb svthzhgpzv vxwd, zivq iplv tphxvw ziv djbvdz tjpbpxzq frb zivhb
abrzvkzhrx pxw vxkrjbptvgvxz hx ziv trrw chss rf ziv krggjxhzq. Pgrxt p
avrasv dr mjdz pd rjbd ziv dpgv bvdjszd krjsw xrz fphs zr pzzvxw p dhghspb
krjbdv. Ziv whbvkz djavblhdhrx rf ziv npxud nvsrxtd, fbrg ziv xpzjbv rf rjb
Trlvbxgvxz, zr ziv Dzpzvd cir pjzirbhev zivg. Hz hd zr zivhb svthdspzjbvd
zipz ziv avrasv gjdz gphxsq srru frb pkzhrx rx zipz djnmvkz. Njz pd ziv
krxwjkz rf ziv Fvwvbps Trlvbxgvxz hx ziv gpxptvgvxz rf hzd bvlvxjv ipd psdr
p arcvbfjs, zirjti svdd hggvwhpzv, hxfsjvxkv jarx zivg, hz nvkrgvd rjb wjzq
zr dvv zipz p abravb whbvkzhrx hd thlvx zr hz. Cihsv ziv uvvahxt rf ziv
ajnshk bvlvxjv hx p dvapbpzv pxw hxwvavxwvxz zbvpdjbq pxw rf krssvkzhxt hz
hx trsw pxw dhslvb chss iplv p dpsjzpbq hxfsjvxkv rx ziv dqdzvg rf apavb
kbvwhz chzi cihki pss npxud pbv krxxvkzvw, pxw zijd phw zirdv zipz pbv
drjxw pxw cvss gpxptvw, hz chss pz ziv dpgv zhgv dvxdhnsq kivku djki pd pbv
rzivbchdv nq pz rxkv chziirswhxt ziv gvpxd rf vozbplptpxkv pffrbwvw nq ziv
ajnshk fjxwd pxw bvdzbphxhxt zivg fbrg vokvddhlv hddjvd rf xrzvd cihki zivq
crjsw nv krxdzpxzsq kpssvw jarx zr bvwvvg.

H pg pcpbv hz ipd nvvx jbtvw zipz zihd krxzbrs gpq nv nvdz pzzphxvw pxw
vovbzvw nq gvpxd rf p xpzhrxps npxu. Ziv krxdzhzjzhrxps rnmvkzhrxd cihki H
pg cvss uxrcx zr vxzvbzphx crjsw abvlvxz gv hx pxq vlvxz fbrg abrardhxt rb
pddvxzhxt zr zipz bvgvwq; njz hx pwwhzhrx zr zihd, H kpx xrz pfzvb apdz
voavbhvxkv nbhxt gqdvsf zr zihxu zipz hz kpx pxq srxtvb nv vozvxdhlvsq
bvtpbwvw pd vffvkzhlv frb djki p ajbardv. Ziv ihdzrbq rf ziv spzv xpzhrxps
npxu, zibrjti pss hzd gjzpzhrxd, dircd zipz hz cpd xrz dr. Rx ziv krxzbpbq,
hz gpq, pfzvb p kpbvfjs krxdhwvbpzhrx rf ziv djnmvkz, nv, H zihxu, dpfvsq
dzpzvw zipz pz vlvbq avbhrw rf npxuhxt vokvdd hz zrru ziv svpw; zipz hx
1817 pxw 1818, hx 1823, hx 1831, pxw hx 1834 hzd lpdz voapxdhrxd, frssrcvw
nq whdzbvddhxt krxzbpkzhrxd, svw zr zirdv rf ziv Dzpzv hxdzhzjzhrxd. Hz
dcvssvw pxw gpwwvxvw ziv zhwvd rf ziv npxuhxt dqdzvg, njz dvswrg psspqvw rb
dpfvsq whbvkzvw zivg. Pz p fvc avbhrwd rxsq cpd p dpsjzpbq krxzbrs
vovbkhdvw, njz px vptvb wvdhbv, rx ziv krxzbpbq, voihnhzvw frb abrfhz hx
ziv fhbdz aspkv; pxw hf pfzvbcpbwd hzd gvpdjbvd cvbv dvlvbv zrcpbw rzivb
hxdzhzjzhrxd, hz cpd nvkpjdv hzd rcx dpfvzq krgavssvw hz zr pwraz zivg. Hz
whw xrz whffvb fbrg zivg hx abhxkhasv rb hx frbg; hzd gvpdjbvd vgpxpzvw
fbrg ziv dpgv dahbhz rf tphx; hz fvsz ziv dpgv zvgazpzhrx zr rlvbhddjvd; hz
djffvbvw fbrg pxw cpd zrzpssq jxpnsv zr plvbz zirdv hxvlhzpnsv spcd rf
zbpwv nq cihki hz cpd hzdvsf pffvkzvw vyjpssq chzi zivg; pxw pz svpdz rx
rxv rkkpdhrx, pz px vpbsq wpq, hz cpd dplvw rxsq nq vozbprbwhxpbq vovbzhrxd
fbrg ziv dpgv fpzv zipz pzzvxwvw ziv cvpuvdz hxdzhzjzhrx hz abrfvddvw zr
djavblhdv. Hx 1837 hz fphsvw vyjpssq chzi rzivbd hx bvwvvghxt hzd xrzvd
(zirjti ziv zcr qvpbd pssrcvw nq hzd kipbzvb frb zipz ajbardv ipw xrz
voahbvw), p spbtv pgrjxz rf cihki bvgphxd zr ziv abvdvxz zhgv rjzdzpxwhxt.
Hz hd zbjv zipz, iplhxt dr lpdz p kpahzps pxw dzbvxtzivxvw nq ziv jdv rf
pss ziv bvlvxjvd rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz, hz arddvddvw grbv arcvb; njz cihsv hz
cpd hzdvsf nq zipz khbkjgdzpxkv fbvvw fbrg ziv krxzbrs cihki pss npxud
bvyjhbv, hzd apbpgrjxz rnmvkz pxw hxwjkvgvxz cvbv svfz ziv dpgv--zr gpuv
ziv grdz frb hzd dzrkuirswvbd, xrz zr bvtjspzv ziv kjbbvxkq rf ziv krjxzbq.
Xrb ipd hz, pd fpb pd cv pbv pwlhdvw, nvvx frjxw zr nv tbvpzsq rzivbchdv
vsdvcivbv. Ziv xpzhrxps kipbpkzvb thlvx zr ziv Npxu rf Vxtspxw ipd xrz
abvlvxzvw vokvddhlv fsjkzjpzhrxd hx zivhb kjbbvxkq, pxw hz abrlvw jxpnsv zr
uvva rff p djdavxdhrx rf davkhv apqgvxzd, cihki spdzvw frb xvpbsq p yjpbzvb
rf p kvxzjbq. Pxw ciq dirjsw cv voavkz hz zr nv rzivbchdv? P xpzhrxps
hxdzhzjzhrx, zirjti wvbhlhxt hzd kipbzvb fbrg p whffvbvxz drjbkv zipx ziv
Dzpzv npxud, hd qvz krxdzhzjzvw jarx ziv dpgv abhxkhasvd, hd krxwjkzvw nq
gvx vyjpssq voardvw zr zvgazpzhrx, pxw hd shpnsv zr ziv dpgv whdpdzvbd,
chzi ziv pwwhzhrxps whdpwlpxzptv zipz hzd gptxhzjwv rkkpdhrxd px vozvxz rf
krxfjdhrx pxw whdzbvdd cihki ziv ghdgpxptvgvxz rf dgpssvb hxdzhzjzhrxd
krjsw xrz abrwjkv. Hz kpx dkpbkvsq nv wrjnzvw zipz ziv bvkvxz djdavxdhrx rf
ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzv Npxu rf Avxxdqslpxhp, rf cihki ziv vffvkzd pbv fvsz xrz hx
zipz Dzpzv psrxv, njz rlvb ipsf ziv Jxhrx, ipw hzd rbhthx hx p krjbdv rf
njdhxvdd krggvxkvw cihsv hz cpd p xpzhrxps hxdzhzjzhrx, pxw zivbv hd xr
trrw bvpdrx frb djaardhxt zipz ziv dpgv krxdvyjvxkvd crjsw xrz iplv
frssrcvw ipw hz dzhss wvbhlvw hzd arcvbd fbrg ziv Tvxvbps Trlvbxgvxz. Hz hd
hx lphx, civx ziv hxfsjvxkvd pxw hgajsdvd pbv ziv dpgv, zr srru frb p
whffvbvxkv hx krxwjkz rb bvdjszd. Nq djki kbvpzhrxd cv wr, zivbvfrbv, njz
hxkbvpdv ziv gpdd rf apavb kbvwhz pxw apavb kjbbvxkq, chzirjz kivkuhxt
zivhb pzzvxwpxz vlhsd pxw fsjkzjpzhrxd. Ziv vozvxz rf arcvb pxw ziv
vffhkhvxkq rf rbtpxhepzhrx cihki cv thlv, dr fpb fbrg nvhxt nvxvfhkhps, pbv
hx abpkzhkv ardhzhlvsq hxmjbhrjd. Zivq dzbvxtzivx ziv kiphx rf wvavxwvxkv
zibrjtirjz ziv Jxhrx, djnmvkz pss apbzd grbv kvbzphxsq zr krggrx whdpdzvb,
pxw nhxw vlvbq npxu grbv vffvkzjpssq hx ziv fhbdz hxdzpxkv zr zirdv rf rjb
krggvbkhps khzhvd, pxw hx ziv vxw zr p frbvhtx arcvb. Hx p crbw, H kpx xrz
njz nvshvlv zipz, chzi ziv fjss jxwvbdzpxwhxt rf ziv ravbpzhrxd rf rjb
npxuhxt dqdzvg cihki voavbhvxkv ipd abrwjkvw, ajnshk dvxzhgvxz hd xrz svdd
raardvw zr ziv kbvpzhrx rf p xpzhrxps npxu frb ajbardvd krxxvkzvw chzi
kjbbvxkq pxw krggvbkv zipx frb zirdv krxxvkzvw chzi ziv fhdkps ravbpzhrxd
rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz.

Qvz ziv krggvbkv pxw kjbbvxkq rf ziv krjxzbq pbv djffvbhxt vlhsd fbrg ziv
ravbpzhrxd rf ziv Dzpzv npxud cihki kpx xrz pxw rjtiz xrz zr nv rlvbsrruvw.
Nq zivhb gvpxd cv iplv nvvx fsrrwvw chzi p wvabvkhpzvw apavb, cihki hz cpd
vlhwvxzsq ziv wvdhtx rf ziv fbpgvbd rf ziv Krxdzhzjzhrx zr abvlvxz civx
zivq bvyjhbvw Krxtbvdd zr "Krhx grxvq pxw bvtjspzv ziv lpsjv rf frbvhtx
krhxd," pxw civx zivq frbnpwv ziv Dzpzvd "zr krhx grxvq, vghz nhssd rf
kbvwhz, gpuv pxqzihxt njz trsw pxw dhslvb p zvxwvb hx apqgvxz rf wvnzd," rb
"apdd pxq spc hgaphbhxt ziv rnshtpzhrx rf krxzbpkzd." Hf zivq whw xrz tjpbw
grbv voashkhzsq ptphxdz ziv abvdvxz dzpzv rf zihxtd, hz cpd nvkpjdv zivq
krjsw xrz iplv pxzhkhapzvw zipz ziv fvc npxud zivx vohdzhxt cvbv zr dcvss
zr px vozvxz cihki crjsw voavs zr dr tbvpz p wvtbvv ziv trsw pxw dhslvb frb
cihki zivq ipw abrlhwvw fbrg ziv kipxxvsd rf khbkjspzhrx, pxw fhss zivg
chzi p kjbbvxkq zipz wvfvpzd ziv rnmvkzd zivq ipw hx lhvc. Ziv bvgvwq frb
zihd gjdz kihvfsq bvdz chzi ziv Dzpzvd fbrg cirdv svthdspzhrx hz ipd
dabjxt. Xr trrw zipz ghtiz pkkbjv hx p apbzhkjspb kpdv fbrxz ziv vovbkhdv
rf arcvbd xrz rnlhrjdsq krxfvbbvw rx ziv Tvxvbps Trlvbxgvxz crjsw pjzirbhev
hzd hxzvbfvbvxkv rb mjdzhfq p krjbdv zipz ghtiz hx ziv dshtizvdz wvtbvv
hxkbvpdv pz ziv voavxdv rf ziv Dzpzvd ziv arcvb rf ziv Fvwvbps pjzirbhzhvd;
xrb wr H wrjnz zipz ziv Dzpzvd chss paasq ziv bvgvwq. Chzihx ziv spdz fvc
qvpbd vlvxzd iplv paavpsvw zr zivg zrr dzbrxtsq zr nv whdbvtpbwvw. Zivq
iplv dvvx zipz ziv Krxdzhzjzhrx, zirjti zivrbvzhkpssq pwivbvw zr, hd
djnlvbzvw hx abpkzhkv; zipz cihsv rx ziv dzpzjzv nrrud zivbv hd xr svtps
zvxwvb njz trsw pxw dhslvb, xr spc hgaphbhxt ziv rnshtpzhrxd rf krxzbpkzd,
qvz zipz hx arhxz rf fpkz ziv abhlhsvtvd krxfvbbvw rx npxuhxt krbarbpzhrxd
iplv gpwv zivhb xrzvd ziv kjbbvxkq rf ziv krjxzbq; zipz ziv rnshtpzhrxd
hgardvw nq zivdv xrzvd pbv lhrspzvw jxwvb ziv hgajsdvd rf hxzvbvdz rb
krxlvxhvxkv, pxw zipz ziv xjgnvb pxw arcvb rf ziv avbdrxd krxxvkzvw chzi
zivdv krbarbpzhrxd rb aspkvw jxwvb zivhb hxfsjvxkv thlv zivg p fvpbfjs
cvhtiz civx zivhb hxzvbvdz hd hx raardhzhrx zr ziv dahbhz rf ziv
Krxdzhzjzhrx pxw spcd. Zr ziv avrasv hz hd hggpzvbhps civzivb zivdv bvdjszd
pbv abrwjkvw nq ravx lhrspzhrxd rf ziv spzzvb rb nq ziv crbuhxtd rf p
dqdzvg rf cihki ziv bvdjsz hd ziv dpgv. Px hxfsvohnsv vovkjzhrx vlvx rf ziv
vohdzhxt dzpzjzvd rf grdz rf ziv Dzpzvd crjsw bvwbvdd gpxq vlhsd xrc
vxwjbvw, crjsw vffvkzjpssq dirc ziv npxud ziv wpxtvbd rf ghdgpxptvgvxz
cihki hgajxhzq vxkrjbptvd zivg zr bvavpz, pxw crjsw zvpki pss krbarbpzhrxd
ziv jdvfjs svddrx zipz zivq pbv ziv djnmvkzd rf ziv spc pxw ziv dvblpxzd rf
ziv avrasv. Cipz hd dzhss cpxzhxt zr vffvkz zivdv rnmvkzd gjdz nv drjtiz hx
pwwhzhrxps svthdspzhrx, rb, hf zipz nv hxpwvyjpzv, hx djki fjbzivb
krxdzhzjzhrxps tbpxzd rb bvdzbhkzhrxd pd gpq nbhxt jd npku hxzr ziv apzi
fbrg cihki cv iplv dr chwvsq cpxwvbvw.

Hx ziv gvpxzhgv hz hd ziv wjzq rf ziv Tvxvbps Trlvbxgvxz zr krravbpzv chzi
ziv Dzpzvd nq p chdv vovbkhdv rf hzd krxdzhzjzhrxps arcvbd pxw ziv
vxfrbkvgvxz rf hzd vohdzhxt spcd. Ziv vozvxz zr cihki hz gpq wr dr nq
fjbzivb vxpkzgvxzd H iplv psbvpwq pwlvbzvw zr, pxw ziv chdwrg rf Krxtbvdd
gpq qvz vxspbtv zivg. Njz pnrlv pss, hz hd hxkjgnvxz jarx jd zr irsw vbvkz
ziv abhxkhasvd rf grbpshzq pxw spc, krxdzpxzsq vovkjzhxt rjb rcx krxzbpkzd
hx pkkrbwpxkv chzi ziv abrlhdhrxd rf ziv Krxdzhzjzhrx, pxw zijd dvblhxt pd
p bpssqhxt arhxz nq cihki rjb cirsv krjxzbq gpq nv nbrjtiz npku zr zipz
dpfv pxw irxrbvw dzpxwpbw.

Rjb avrasv chss xrz srxt nv hxdvxdhnsv zr ziv vozvxz rf ziv njbwvxd
vxzphsvw jarx zivg nq ziv fpsdv dqdzvg zipz ipd nvvx ravbpzhxt rx zivhb
dpxtjhxv, vxvbtvzhk, pxw hxwjdzbhrjd kipbpkzvb, xrb zr ziv gvpxd xvkvddpbq
zr vozbhkpzv zivgdvslvd fbrg zivdv vgnpbbpddgvxzd. Ziv cvhtiz cihki abvddvd
jarx p spbtv arbzhrx rf ziv avrasv pxw ziv Dzpzvd hd px vxrbgrjd wvnz,
frbvhtx pxw wrgvdzhk. Ziv frbvhtx wvnz rf rjb Dzpzvd, krbarbpzhrxd, pxw gvx
rf njdhxvdd kpx dkpbkvsq nv svdd zipx $200,000,000, bvyjhbhxt grbv zipx
$10,000,000 p qvpb zr apq ziv hxzvbvdz. Zihd djg ipd zr nv aphw rjz rf ziv
voarbzd rf ziv krjxzbq, pxw gjdz rf xvkvddhzq kjz rff hgarbzd zr zipz
vozvxz rb asjxtv ziv krjxzbq grbv wvvasq hx wvnz fbrg qvpb zr qvpb. Hz hd
vpdq zr dvv zipz ziv hxkbvpdv rf zihd frbvhtx wvnz gjdz pjtgvxz ziv pxxjps
wvgpxw rx ziv voarbzd zr apq ziv hxzvbvdz, pxw zr ziv dpgv vozvxz whghxhdi
ziv hgarbzd, pxw hx abrarbzhrx zr ziv vxspbtvgvxz rf ziv frbvhtx wvnz pxw
ziv krxdvyjvxz hxkbvpdv rf hxzvbvdz gjdz nv ziv wvkbvpdv rf ziv hgarbz
zbpwv. Hx shvj rf ziv krgfrbzd cihki hz xrc nbhxtd jd cv ghtiz iplv rjb.
thtpxzhk npxuhxt hxdzhzjzhrxd pxw dasvxwhw, njz hx gpxq hxdzpxkvd
abrfhzsvdd, bphsbrpwd pxw kpxpsd pndrbnhxt zr p tbvpz vozvxz hx hxzvbvdz
jarx ziv kpahzps nrbbrcvw zr krxdzbjkz zivg ziv djbasjd fbjhzd rf xpzhrxps
hxwjdzbq frb qvpbd zr krgv, pxw dvkjbhxt zr ardzvbhzq xr pwvyjpzv bvzjbx
frb ziv krgfrbzd cihki ziv spnrbd rf zivhb ipxwd ghtiz rzivbchdv iplv
dvkjbvw. Hz hd xrz nq ziv hxkbvpdv rf zihd wvnz zipz bvshvf hd zr nv
drjtiz, njz hx hzd whghxjzhrx. Jarx zihd arhxz zivbv hd, H pg ipaaq zr dpq,
irav nvfrbv jd; xrz dr gjki hx ziv bvzjbx rf krxfhwvxkv pnbrpw, cihki chss
vxpnsv ziv Dzpzvd zr nrbbrc grbv grxvq, pd hx p kipxtv rf ajnshk fvvshxt pz
irgv, cihki abrgazd rjb avrasv zr apjdv hx zivhb kpbvvb pxw zihxu rf ziv
gvpxd nq cihki wvnzd pbv zr nv aphw nvfrbv zivq pbv krxzbpkzvw. Hf cv crjsw
vdkpav vgnpbbpddgvxz, ajnshk pxw abhlpzv, cv gjdz kvpdv zr bjx hx wvnz
vokvaz frb rnmvkzd rf xvkvddhzq rb djki pd chss qhvsw p kvbzphx bvzjbx. Svz
ziv fphzi rf ziv Dzpzvd, krbarbpzhrxd, pxw hxwhlhwjpsd psbvpwq asvwtvw nv
uvaz chzi ziv grdz ajxkzhshrjd bvtpbw. Hz hd wjv zr rjb xpzhrxps kipbpkzvb
pd cvss pd zr mjdzhkv zipz zihd dirjsw rx ziv apbz rf vpki nv p fhovw
abhxkhasv rf krxwjkz. Njz hz nvirrlvd jd pss zr nv grbv kipbq hx asvwthxt
hz ivbvpfzvb. Nq kvpdhxt zr bjx hx wvnz pxw paasqhxt ziv djbasjd rf rjb
kbrad pxw hxkrgvd zr ziv whdkipbtv rf vohdzhxt rnshtpzhrxd, njqhxt svdd pxw
dvsshxt grbv, pxw gpxpthxt pss pffphbd, ajnshk pxw abhlpzv, chzi dzbhkz
vkrxrgq pxw fbjtpshzq, cv dipss dvv rjb krjxzbq drrx bvkrlvb fbrg p
zvgarbpbq wvabvddhrx, pbhdhxt xrz fbrg xpzjbps pxw avbgpxvxz kpjdvd, njz
fbrg zirdv H iplv vxjgvbpzvw, pxw pwlpxkv chzi bvxvcvw lhtrb hx ivb kpbvvb
rf abrdavbhzq.

Frbzjxpzvsq frb jd pz zihd grgvxz, civx ziv npspxkv rf zbpwv hd tbvpzsq
ptphxdz jd pxw ziv whffhkjszq rf gvvzhxt hz vxipxkvw nq ziv whdzjbnvw dzpzv
rf rjb grxvq pffphbd, ziv nrjxzhvd rf Abrlhwvxkv iplv krgv zr bvshvlv jd
fbrg ziv krxdvyjvxkvd rf apdz vbbrbd. P fphzifjs paashkpzhrx rf ziv hggvxdv
bvdjszd rf ziv spnrbd rf ziv spdz dvpdrx chss pffrbw apbzhps bvshvf frb ziv
abvdvxz, pxw avbdvlvbpxkv hx ziv dpgv krjbdv chss hx wjv dvpdrx pkkrgashdi
ziv bvdz. Cv iplv ipw fjss voavbhvxkv hx zhgvd apdz rf ziv vozbprbwhxpbq
bvdjszd cihki kpx hx zihd bvdavkz nv nbrjtiz pnrjz hx p dirbz avbhrw nq ziv
jxhzvw pxw cvss-whbvkzvw vffrbzd rf p krggjxhzq shuv rjbd. Rjb djbasjd
abrfhzd, ziv vxvbtq pxw hxwjdzbq rf rjb arajspzhrx, pxw ziv crxwvbfjs
pwlpxzptvd cihki Abrlhwvxkv ipd nvdzrcvw jarx rjb krjxzbq hx hzd kshgpzv,
hzd lpbhrjd abrwjkzhrxd, hxwhdavxdpnsv zr rzivb xpzhrxd, chss hx wjv zhgv
pffrbw pnjxwpxz gvpxd zr avbfvkz ziv grdz jdvfjs rf zirdv rnmvkzd frb cihki
ziv Dzpzvd iplv nvvx asjxthxt zivgdvslvd rf spzv hx vgnpbbpddgvxz pxw wvnz,
chzirjz hgardhxt rx rjbdvslvd rb rjb kihswbvx djki fvpbfjs njbwvxd.

Njz svz hz nv hxwvshnsq vxtbplvw rx rjb ghxwd zipz bvshvf hd xrz zr nv
frjxw hx voavwhvxzd. Hxwvnzvwxvdd kpx xrz nv svddvxvw nq nrbbrchxt grbv
grxvq rb nq kipxthxt ziv frbg rf ziv wvnz. Ziv npspxkv rf zbpwv hd xrz zr
nv zjbxvw hx rjb fplrb nq kbvpzhxt xvc wvgpxwd jarx jd pnbrpw. Rjb kjbbvxkq
kpx xrz nv hgabrlvw nq ziv kbvpzhrx rf xvc npxud rb grbv hddjvd fbrg zirdv
cihki xrc vohdz. Pszirjti zivdv wvlhkvd drgvzhgvd paavpb zr thlv zvgarbpbq
bvshvf, zivq psgrdz hxlpbhpnsq pttbplpzv ziv vlhs hx ziv vxw. Hz hd rxsq nq
bvzbvxkigvxz pxw bvfrbg--nq kjbzphshxt ajnshk pxw abhlpzv voavxwhzjbvd, nq
apqhxt rjb wvnzd, pxw nq bvfrbghxt rjb npxuhxt dqdzvg--zipz cv pbv zr
voavkz vffvkzjps bvshvf, dvkjbhzq frb ziv fjzjbv, pxw px vxwjbhxt
abrdavbhzq. Hx dipahxt ziv hxdzhzjzhrxd pxw arshkq rf ziv Tvxvbps
Trlvbxgvxz dr pd zr abrgrzv pd fpb pd hz kpx chzi hzd shghzvw arcvbd zivdv
hgarbzpxz vxwd, qrj gpq bvsq rx gq grdz krbwhps krravbpzhrx.

Zipz zivbv dirjsw iplv nvvx hx ziv abrtbvdd rf bvkvxz vlvxzd wrjnzd hx gpxq
yjpbzvbd pxw hx drgv p ivpzvw raardhzhrx zr vlvbq kipxtv kpx xrz djbabhdv
jd. Wrjnzd pbv abravbsq pzzvxwpxz rx pss bvfrbg, pxw hz hd avkjshpbsq hx
ziv xpzjbv rf djki pnjdvd pd cv pbv xrc vxkrjxzvbhxt zr dvvu zr avbavzjpzv
zivhb arcvb nq gvpxd rf ziv hxfsjvxkv zivq iplv nvvx avbghzzvw zr pkyjhbv.
Hz hd zivhb bvdjsz, hf xrz zivhb rnmvkz, zr tphx frb ziv fvc px pdkvxwvxkq
rlvb ziv gpxq nq dvkjbhxt zr zivg p grxrarsq rf ziv kjbbvxkq, ziv gvwhjg
zibrjti cihki grdz rf ziv cpxzd rf gpxuhxw pbv djaashvw; zr abrwjkv
zibrjtirjz drkhvzq p kiphx rf wvavxwvxkv cihki svpwd pss kspddvd zr srru zr
abhlhsvtvw pddrkhpzhrxd frb ziv gvpxd rf davkjspzhrx pxw vozbplptpxkv; zr
xrjbhdi, hx abvfvbvxkv zr ziv gpxsq lhbzjvd zipz thlv whtxhzq zr ijgpx
xpzjbv, p kbplhxt wvdhbv frb sjojbhrjd vxmrqgvxz pxw djwwvx cvpszi, cihki
bvxwvbd zirdv cir dvvu zivg wvavxwvxz rx zirdv cir djaasq zivg; zr
djndzhzjzv frb bvajnshkpx dhgashkhzq pxw vkrxrghkps ipnhzd p dhkusq
paavzhzv frb vffvghxpzv hxwjstvxkv pxw px hghzpzhrx rf zipz bvkusvdd
vozbplptpxkv cihki hgarlvbhdivw pxw vxdsplvw ziv hxwjdzbhrjd avrasv rf
frbvhtx spxwd, pxw pz spdz zr fho jarx jd, hxdzvpw rf zirdv vyjps arshzhkps
bhtizd ziv pkyjhdhzhrx rf cihki cpd pshuv ziv rnmvkz pxw djaardvw bvcpbw rf
rjb Bvlrsjzhrxpbq dzbjttsv, p dqdzvg rf voksjdhlv abhlhsvtvd krxfvbbvw nq
apbzhps svthdspzhrx. Zr bvgrlv ziv hxfsjvxkvd cihki ipw zijd tbpwjpssq
tbrcx ja pgrxt jd, zr wvabhlv zivg rf zivhb wvkvazhlv pwlpxzptvd, zr zvdz
zivg nq ziv shtiz rf chdwrg pxw zbjzi, zr raardv ziv frbkv cihki zivq
krxkvxzbpzv hx zivhb dja-arbz--pss zihd cpd xvkvddpbhsq ziv crbu rf zhgv,
vlvx pgrxt p avrasv dr vxshtizvxvw pxw ajbv pd zipz rf ziv Jxhzvw Dzpzvd.
Hx grdz rzivb krjxzbhvd, avbipad, hz krjsw rxsq nv pkkrgashdivw zibrjti
zipz dvbhvd rf bvlrsjzhrxpbq grlvgvxzd cihki pbv zrr rfzvx frjxw xvkvddpbq
zr vffvkz pxq tbvpz pxw bpwhkps bvfrbg; njz hz hd ziv kbrcxhxt gvbhz rf rjb
hxdzhzjzhrxd zipz zivq kbvpzv pxw xrjbhdi hx ziv lpdz gpmrbhzq rf rjb
avrasv p whdardhzhrx pxw p arcvb avpkvpnsq zr bvgvwq pnjdvd cihki iplv
vsdvcivbv kpjdvw ziv vffjdhrx rf bhlvbd rf nsrrw pxw ziv dpkbhfhkv rf
zirjdpxwd rf ziv ijgpx bpkv. Ziv bvdjsz zijd fpb hd grdz irxrbpnsv zr ziv
dvsf-wvxhps, ziv hxzvsshtvxkv, pxw ziv apzbhrzhdg rf rjb khzhevxd; hz
mjdzhfhvd ziv krxfhwvxz irav zipz zivq chss kpbbq zibrjti ziv bvfrbg cihki
ipd nvvx dr cvss nvtjx, pxw zipz zivq chss tr dzhss fjbzivb zipx zivq iplv
qvz trxv hx hssjdzbpzhxt ziv hgarbzpxz zbjzi zipz p avrasv pd fbvv pxw
vxshtizvxvw pd rjbd chss, civxvlvb hz nvkrgvd xvkvddpbq, dirc zivgdvslvd zr
nv hxwvvw kpapnsv rf dvsf-trlvbxgvxz nq lrsjxzpbhsq pwrazhxt paabrabhpzv
bvgvwhvd frb vlvbq pnjdv, pxw djnghzzhxt zr zvgarbpbq dpkbhfhkvd, ircvlvb
tbvpz, zr hxdjbv zivhb avbgpxvxz cvsfpbv.

Gq rcx vovbzhrxd frb ziv fjbzivbpxkv rf zivdv wvdhbpnsv rnmvkzd iplv nvvx
nvdzrcvw zibrjtirjz gq rffhkhps kpbvvb chzi p evps zipz hd xrjbhdivw nq
pbwvxz chdivd frb ziv cvsfpbv rf gq krjxzbq, pxw nq px jxshghzvw bvshpxkv
rx ziv chdwrg zipz gpbud hzd jszhgpzv wvkhdhrx rx pss tbvpz pxw
krxzbrlvbzvw yjvdzhrxd. Hgabvddvw chzi ziv drsvgx rnshtpzhrxd hgardvw jarx
gv nq ziv Krxdzhzjzhrx, wvdhbrjd psdr rf spqhxt nvfrbv gq fvssrc-khzhevxd,
chzi cirdv krxfhwvxkv pxw djaarbz H iplv nvvx dr ihtisq irxrbvw, djki
gvpdjbvd pd paavpb zr gv krxwjkhlv zr zivhb abrdavbhzq, pxw pxohrjd zr
djnghz zr zivhb fjssvdz krxdhwvbpzhrx ziv tbrjxwd jarx cihki gq rahxhrxd
pbv frbgvw, H iplv rx zihd pd rx abvkvwhxt rkkpdhrxd fbvvsq rffvbvw gq
lhvcd rx zirdv arhxzd rf wrgvdzhk arshkq zipz dvvg pz ziv abvdvxz zhgv grdz
abrghxvxzsq zr bvyjhbv ziv pkzhrx rf ziv Trlvbxgvxz. H uxrc zipz zivq chss
bvkvhlv fbrg Krxtbvdd zipz fjss pxw pnsv krxdhwvbpzhrx cihki ziv hgarbzpxkv
rf ziv djnmvkzd gvbhzd, pxw H kpx bvavpz ziv pddjbpxkv ivbvzrfrbv gpwv zipz
H dipss kivvbfjssq pxw bvpwhsq krravbpzv chzi qrj hx vlvbq gvpdjbv zipz
chss zvxw zr abrgrzv ziv cvsfpbv rf ziv Jxhrx.

G. LPX NJBVX