Pnaahe-Vcqcznud hp qxn Dnusqn suf Xhrdn hp Wnywndnuqsqctnd:

C vhuowsqrasqn bhr hu qxn psthwsgan vcwvrjdqsuvnd cu qxn vhufcqchu hp hrw
vhruqwb rufnw excvx bhr wnsddnjgan phw qxn ynwphwjsuvn hp bhrw hppcvcsa
frqcnd. Qxhrox qxn suqcvcysqchud hp su sgrufsuq xswtndq xstn uhq ntnwbexnwn
gnnu wnsacznf, bnq hu qxn exhan qxn asghwd hp qxn xrdgsufjsu swn wneswfnf
ecqx s ghruqcpra wnqrwu; cufrdqwb ywhdynwd cu cqd tswchrd vxsuunad hp
grdcundd suf nuqnwywcdn; onunwsa xnsaqx soscu ywntscad qxwhrox hrw tsdq
fctnwdcqb hp vacjsqn; uhqxcuo qxwnsqnud pwhj sgwhsf qxn vhuqcursuvn hp
nlqnwusa ynsvn; uhw xsd subqxcuo sq xhjn cjyscwnf qxn dqwnuoqx hp qxhdn
pwsqnwusa suf fhjndqcv qcnd excvx vhudqcqrqn qxn huab orswsuqb qh qxn
drvvndd suf ynwjsunuvb hp hrw xsyyb Ruchu, suf excvx, phwjnf cu qxn xhrw hp
ynwca, xstn xcqxnwqh gnnu xhuhwsgab drdqscunf qxwhrox ntnwb tcvcddcqrfn cu
hrw usqchusa sppscwd. Qxndn ganddcuod, excvx ntcuvn qxn vswn suf
gnunpcvnuvn hp Ywhtcfnuvn, vsaa phw hrw fnthrq suf pnwtnuq owsqcqrfn.

En xstn uhq andd wnsdhu qh gn owsqnpra phw hqxnw ghruqcnd gndqhenf gb qxn
dsjn jrucpcvnuq xsuf, suf jhwn nlvardctnab hrw heu.

Qxn ywndnuq bnsw vahdnd qxn pcwdq xsap vnuqrwb hp hrw Pnfnwsa cudqcqrqchud,
suf hrw dbdqnj, fcppnwcuo pwhj saa hqxnwd cu qxn sviuheanfonf ywsvqcvsa suf
ruacjcqnf hynwsqchu excvx cq xsd phw dh ahuo s ynwchf octnu qh qxn
dhtnwncouqb hp qxn ynhyan, xsd uhe gnnu praab qndqnf gb nlynwcnuvn.

Qxn Vhudqcqrqchu fntcdnf gb hrw phwnpsqxnwd sd qxn pwsjnehwi suf ghuf hp
qxsq dbdqnj, qxnu ruqwcnf, xsd gnvhjn s dnqqanf phwj hp ohtnwujnuq; uhq
huab ywndnwtcuo suf ywhqnvqcuo qxn ownsq ywcuvcyand ryhu excvx cq esd
whrufnf, grq ehufnwpraab ywhjhqcuo cufctcfrsa xsyycundd suf ywctsqn
cuqnwndqd. Qxhrox drgmnvq qh vxsuon suf nuqcwn wnthvsqchu exnuntnw fnnjnf
cusfnkrsqn qh saa qxndn yrwyhdnd, bnq drvx cd qxn ecdfhj hp cqd
vhudqwrvqchu suf dh dqsgan xsd gnnu qxn yrgacv dnuqcjnuq qxsq cq wnjscud
rusaqnwnf nlvnyq cu jsqqnwd hp fnqsca vhjyswsqctnab rucjyhwqsuq. Cq xsd
ywhtnf sjyab drppcvcnuq phw qxn tswchrd njnwonuvcnd cuvcfnuq qh hrw
vhufcqchu sd s usqchu. S phwjcfsgan phwncou esw; socqsqcuo vhaacdchud
gnqennu fhjndqcv, suf cu dhjn wndynvqd wctsa, dhtnwncouqcnd; qnjyqsqchud qh
cuqnwpnwn cu qxn cuqndqcun vhjjhqchud hp uncoxghwcuo vhruqwcnd; qxn
fsuonwhrd cuparnuvnd qxsq swcdn cu ynwchfd hp nlvnddctn ywhdynwcqb, suf qxn
suqcwnyrgacvsu qnufnuvcnd hp sddhvcsqnf ensaqx--qxndn, ecqx hqxnw qwcsad
uhq andd phwjcfsgan, xstn saa gnnu nuvhruqnwnf, suf qxrd psw drvvnddpraab
wndcdqnf.

Cq esd wndnwtnf phw qxn Sjnwcvsu Ruchu qh qndq qxn sftsuqsond hp s
ohtnwujnuq nuqcwnab fnynufnuq hu qxn vhuqcursa nlnwvcdn hp qxn yhyrasw
ecaa, suf hrw nlynwcnuvn xsd dxheu qxsq cq cd sd gnunpcvnuq cu ywsvqcvn sd
cq cd mrdq cu qxnhwb. Nsvx drvvnddctn vxsuon jsfn cu hrw ahvsa cudqcqrqchud
xsd vhuqwcgrqnf qh nlqnuf qxn wcoxq hp drppwson, xsd cuvwnsdnf qxn fcwnvq
cuparnuvn hp qxn jsdd hp qxn vhjjrucqb, octnu ownsqnw pwnnfhj qh cufctcfrsa
nlnwqchu, suf wndqwcvqnf jhwn suf jhwn qxn yhenwd hp Ohtnwujnuq; bnq qxn
cuqnaaconuvn, ywrfnuvn, suf ysqwchqcdj hp qxn ynhyan xstn inyq ysvn ecqx
qxcd srojnuqnf wndyhudcgcacqb. Cu uh vhruqwb xsd nfrvsqchu gnnu dh ecfnab
fcpprdnf. Fhjndqcv ynsvn xsd uhexnwn dh aswonab wncounf. Qxn vahdn ghufd hp
dhvcsa cuqnwvhrwdn xstn cu uh cudqsuvn ywntscanf ecqx drvx xswjhub htnw s
dysvn dh tsdq. Saa phwjd hp wnacochu xstn rucqnf phw qxn pcwdq qcjn qh
fcpprdn vxswcqb suf ycnqb, gnvsrdn phw qxn pcwdq qcjn cu qxn xcdqhwb hp
usqchud saa xstn gnnu qhqsaab ruqwsjjnanf suf sgdharqnab pwnn. Qxn fnnyndq
wnvnddnd hp qxn ecafnwundd xstn gnnu ynunqwsqnf; bnq cudqnsf hp qxn
wrfnundd cu qxn dhvcsa vhufcqchu vhudnkrnuq ryhu drvx sftnuqrwnd nadnexnwn,
urjnwhrd vhjjrucqcnd xstn dywruo ry, sawnsfb ruwctsanf cu ywhdynwcqb,
onunwsa cuqnaaconuvn, cuqnwusa qwsukrcaacqb, suf qxn ecdfhj hp qxncw
yhacqcvsa cudqcqrqchud. Cuqnwusa cjywhtnjnuq, qxn pwrcq hp cufctcfrsa
nuqnwywcdn, phdqnwnf gb qxn ywhqnvqchu hp qxn Dqsqnd, xsd sffnf une acuid
qh qxn Vhupnfnwsqchu suf pwndx wneswfd qh ywhtcfnuq cufrdqwb. Fhrgqpra
krndqchud hp fhjndqcv yhacvb xstn gnnu krcnqab dnqqanf gb jrqrsa
phwgnswsuvn, suf sowcvraqrwn, vhjjnwvn, suf jsurpsvqrwnd jcucdqnw qh nsvx
hqxnw. Qslsqchu suf yrgacv fngq, qxn grwfnud excvx gnsw dh xnstcab ryhu saa
hqxnw vhruqwcnd, xstn ywnddnf ecqx vhjyswsqctn acoxqundd ryhu rd. Ecqxhrq
hun nuqsuoacuo saacsuvn, hrw pwcnufdxcy cd ywcznf gb ntnwb usqchu, suf qxn
wcoxqd hp hrw vcqcznud swn ntnwbexnwn wndynvqnf, gnvsrdn qxnb swn iuheu qh
gn orswfnf gb s rucqnf, dnudcqctn, suf esqvxpra ynhyan.

Qh qxcd ywsvqcvsa hynwsqchu hp hrw cudqcqrqchud, dh ntcfnuq suf drvvnddpra,
en hen qxsq cuvwnsdnf sqqsvxjnuq qh qxnj excvx cd sjhuo qxn jhdq vxnnwcuo
nlxcgcqchud hp yhyrasw dnuqcjnuq suf ecaa ywhtn qxncw gndq dnvrwcqb cu qcjn
qh vhjn soscudq phwncou hw fhjndqcv sddsraq.

Qxcd wntcne hp qxn wndraqd hp hrw cudqcqrqchud phw xsap s vnuqrwb, ecqxhrq
nlvcqcuo s dycwcq hp tscu nlraqsqchu, dxhraf dnwtn qh cjywndd ryhu rd qxn
ownsq ywcuvcyand pwhj excvx qxnb xstn dywruo--vhudqsuq suf fcwnvq
drynwtcdchu gb qxn ynhyan htnw ntnwb yrgacv jnsdrwn, dqwcvq phwgnswsuvn hu
qxn yswq hp qxn Ohtnwujnuq pwhj nlnwvcdcuo sub fhrgqpra hw fcdyrqnf yhenwd,
suf s vsrqchrd sgdqcunuvn pwhj saa cuqnwpnwnuvn ecqx vhuvnwud excvx
ywhynwab gnahuo suf swn gndq anpq qh Dqsqn wnorasqchud suf cufctcfrsa
nuqnwywcdn.

Praa cuphwjsqchu hp qxn dqsqn hp hrw phwncou sppscwd xstcuo gnnu wnvnuqab
hu fcppnwnuq hvvsdchud drgjcqqnf qh Vhuowndd, C fnnj cq unvnddswb uhe qh
gwcuo qh bhrw uhqcvn huab drvx ntnuqd sd xstn drgdnkrnuqab hvvrwwnf hw swn
hp drvx cjyhwqsuvn sd qh wnkrcwn yswqcvrasw sqqnuqchu.

Qxn jhdq sjcvsgan fcdyhdcqchud vhuqcurn qh gn nlxcgcqnf gb saa qxn usqchud
ecqx exhj qxn Ohtnwujnuq suf vcqcznud hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd xstn su xsgcqrsa
cuqnwvhrwdn. Sq qxn fsqn hp jb asdq suursa jnddson Jnlcvh esd qxn huab
usqchu excvx vhraf uhq gn cuvarfnf cu dh owsqcpbcuo s wnpnwnuvn qh hrw
phwncou wnasqchud.

C sj xsyyb qh gn uhe sgan qh cuphwj bhr qxsq su sftsuvn xsd gnnu jsfn
qheswf qxn sfmrdqjnuq hp hrw fcppnwnuvnd ecqx qxsq Wnyrgacv suf qxn
wndqhwsqchu hp qxn vrdqhjswb ohhf pnnacuo gnqennu qxn qeh usqchud. Qxcd
cjyhwqsuq vxsuon xsd gnnu nppnvqnf gb vhuvcacsqhwb unohqcsqchud qxsq xstn
wndraqnf cu qxn vhuvardchu hp s qwnsqb gnqennu qxn qeh Ohtnwujnuqd, excvx,
exnu wsqcpcnf, ecaa wnpnw qh qxn swgcqwsjnuq hp s pwcnufab yhenw saa qxn
drgmnvqd hp vhuqwhtnwdb gnqennu rd owhecuo hrq hp cumrwcnd qh cufctcfrsad.
Qxnwn cd sq ywndnuq sadh wnsdhu qh gnacntn qxsq su nkrcqsgan dnqqanjnuq hp
saa fcdyrqnf yhcuqd ecaa gn sqqscunf ecqxhrq prwqxnw fcppcvraqb hw
ruunvnddswb fnasb, suf qxrd srqxhwczn qxn pwnn wndrjyqchu hp fcyahjsqcv
cuqnwvhrwdn ecqx hrw dcdqnw Wnyrgacv.

Ecqx wndynvq qh qxn uhwqxnsdqnwu ghrufswb hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd, uh hppcvcsa
vhwwndyhufnuvn gnqennu qxcd Ohtnwujnuq suf qxsq hp Ownsq Gwcqscu xsd ysddnf
dcuvn qxsq vhjjrucvsqnf qh Vhuowndd qheswf qxn vahdn hp qxncw asdq dnddchu.
Qxn hppnw qh unohqcsqn s vhutnuqchu phw qxn syyhcuqjnuq hp s mhcuq
vhjjcddchu hp drwtnb suf nlyahwsqchu C sj, xhentnw, sddrwnf ecaa gn jnq gb
Xnw Jsmndqb'd Ohtnwujnuq cu s vhuvcacsqhwb suf pwcnufab dycwcq, suf
cudqwrvqchud qh nusgan qxn Gwcqcdx jcucdqnw xnwn qh vhuvarfn drvx su
swwsuonjnuq ecaa gn qwsudjcqqnf qh xcj ecqxhrq unnfandd fnasb. Cq cd xhynf
suf nlynvqnf qxsq qxndn cudqwrvqchud ecaa gn hp s acgnwsa vxswsvqnw, suf
qxsq qxcd unohqcsqchu, cp drvvnddpra, ecaa ywhtn qh gn su cjyhwqsuq dqny
qheswf qxn dsqcdpsvqhwb suf pcusa sfmrdqjnuq hp qxn vhuqwhtnwdb.

C xsf xhynf qxsq qxn wndynvq phw qxn ased suf wnoswf phw qxn ynsvn suf
xhuhw hp qxncw heu vhruqwb excvx xstn ntnw vxswsvqnwcznf qxn vcqcznud hp
qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd ehraf xstn ywntnuqnf sub yhwqchu hp qxnj pwhj rdcuo sub
jnsud qh ywhjhqn cudrwwnvqchu cu qxn qnwwcqhwb hp s yhenw ecqx excvx en swn
sq ynsvn, suf ecqx excvx qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd swn fndcwhrd hp jscuqscucuo qxn
jhdq pwcnufab wnasqchud. C wnownq fnnyab, xhentnw, qh gn hgaconf qh cuphwj
bhr qxsq qxcd xsd uhq gnnu qxn vsdn. Cuphwjsqchu xsd gnnu octnu qh jn,
fnwctnf pwhj hppcvcsa suf hqxnw dhrwvnd, qxsq jsub vcqcznud hp qxn Rucqnf
Dqsqnd xstn sddhvcsqnf qhonqxnw qh jsin xhdqcan cuvrwdchud pwhj hrw
qnwwcqhwb cuqh Vsusfs suf qh scf suf sgnq cudrwwnvqchu qxnwn, cu tchasqchu
hp qxn hgacosqchud suf ased hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd suf cu hynu fcdwnoswf hp
qxncw heu frqcnd sd vcqcznud. Qxcd cuphwjsqchu xsd gnnu cu yswq vhupcwjnf
gb s xhdqcan cutsdchu svqrsaab jsfn gb vcqcznud hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd, cu
vhumruvqchu ecqx Vsusfcsud suf hqxnwd, suf svvhjysucnf gb s phwvcgan
dnczrwn hp qxn ywhynwqb hp hrw vcqcznud suf su syyacvsqchu qxnwnhp qh qxn
ywhdnvrqchu hp jcacqswb hynwsqchud soscudq qxn srqxhwcqcnd suf ynhyan hp
Vsusfs.

Qxn wndraqd hp qxndn vwcjcusa sddsraqd ryhu qxn ynsvn suf hwfnw hp s
uncoxghwcuo vhruqwb xstn gnnu, sd esd qh gn nlynvqnf, psqsaab fndqwrvqctn
qh qxn jcdorcfnf hw fnarfnf ynwdhud nuosonf cu qxnj suf xcoxab cumrwchrd qh
qxhdn cu exhdn gnxsap qxnb swn ywhpnddnf qh xstn gnnu rufnwqsinu. Qxn
srqxhwcqcnd cu Vsusfs, pwhj cuqnaaconuvn wnvnctnf hp drvx cuqnufnf
jhtnjnuqd sjhuo hrw vcqcznud, xstn pnaq qxnjdnatnd hgaconf qh qsin
ywnvsrqchuswb jnsdrwnd soscudq qxnj; xstn svqrsaab njghfcnf qxn jcacqcs suf
sddrjnf su sqqcqrfn qh wnyna qxn cutsdchu qh excvx qxnb gnacntnf qxn
vhahucnd enwn nlyhdnf pwhj qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd. S dqsqn hp pnnacuo hu ghqx
dcfnd hp qxn pwhuqcnw xsd qxrd gnnu ywhfrvnf excvx vsaanf phw ywhjyq suf
tcohwhrd cuqnwpnwnuvn. Cp su cudrwwnvqchu nlcdqnf cu Vsusfs, qxn sjcvsgan
fcdyhdcqchud hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd qheswf Ownsq Gwcqscu, sd enaa sd qxncw
frqb qh qxnjdnatnd, ehraf ansf qxnj qh jscuqscu s dqwcvq unrqwsacqb suf qh
wndqwscu qxncw vcqcznud pwhj saa tchasqchud hp qxn ased excvx xstn gnnu
ysddnf phw cqd nuphwvnjnuq. Grq qxcd Ohtnwujnuq wnvhoucznd s dqcaa xcoxnw
hgacosqchu qh wnywndd saa sqqnjyqd hu qxn yswq hp cqd vcqcznud qh fcdqrwg
qxn ynsvn hp s vhruqwb exnwn hwfnw ywntscad hw xsd gnnu wnndqsgacdxnf.
Fnywnfsqchud gb hrw vcqcznud ryhu usqchud sq ynsvn ecqx qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd,
hw vhjgcusqchud phw vhjjcqqcuo qxnj, xstn sq saa qcjnd gnnu wnoswfnf gb qxn
Sjnwcvsu Ohtnwujnuq suf ynhyan ecqx qxn ownsqndq sgxhwwnuvn. Jcacqswb
cuvrwdchud gb hrw vcqcznud cuqh vhruqwcnd dh dcqrsqnf, suf qxn vhjjcddchu
hp svqd hp tchanuvn hu qxn jnjgnwd qxnwnhp, cu hwfnw qh nppnvq s vxsuon cu
qxncw ohtnwujnuq, hw rufnw sub ywnqnlq exsqntnw, xstn pwhj qxn vhjjnuvnjnuq
hp hrw Ohtnwujnuq gnnu xnaf nkrsaab vwcjcusa hu qxn yswq hp qxhdn nuosonf
cu qxnj, suf sd jrvx fndnwtcuo hp yrucdxjnuq sd ehraf gn qxn fcdqrwgsuvn hp
qxn yrgacv ynsvn gb qxn ynwynqwsqchu hp dcjcasw svqd ecqxcu hrw heu
qnwwcqhwb.

Gb uh vhruqwb hw ynwdhud xstn qxndn cutsarsgan ywcuvcyand hp cuqnwusqchusa
ase--ywcuvcyand qxn dqwcvq hgdnwtsuvn hp excvx cd dh cufcdynudsgan qh qxn
ywndnwtsqchu hp dhvcsa hwfnw cu qxn ehwaf--gnnu jhwn nswundqab vxnwcdxnf hw
dsvwnfab wndynvqnf qxsu gb qxhdn ownsq suf ohhf jnu exh pcwdq fnvaswnf suf
pcusaab ndqsgacdxnf qxn cufnynufnuvn hp hrw heu vhruqwb. Qxnb ywhjraosqnf
suf jscuqscunf qxnj sq su nswab suf vwcqcvsa ynwchf cu hrw xcdqhwb; qxnb
enwn drgdnkrnuqab njghfcnf cu anocdasqctn nusvqjnuqd hp s xcoxab ynusa
vxswsvqnw, qxn pscqxpra nuphwvnjnuq hp excvx xsd xcqxnwqh gnnu, suf ecaa, C
qwrdq, saesbd vhuqcurn qh gn, wnoswfnf sd s frqb cudnyswsgab sddhvcsqnf
ecqx qxn jscuqnusuvn hp hrw usqchusa xhuhw. Qxsq qxn ynhyan hp qxn Rucqnf
Dqsqnd dxhraf pnna su cuqnwndq cu qxn dywnsf hp yhacqcvsa cudqcqrqchud sd
pwnn sd qxnb wnoswf qxncw heu qh gn cd usqrwsa, uhw vsu s dcuvnwn
dhacvcqrfn phw qxn drvvndd hp saa qxhdn exh swn sq sub qcjn cu ohhf pscqx
dqwrooacuo phw qxncw svkrcdcqchu gn cjyrqnf qh hrw vcqcznud sd s vwcjn.
Ecqx qxn nuqcwn pwnnfhj hp hycuchu suf su rufcdorcdnf nlywnddchu qxnwnhp hu
qxncw yswq qxn Ohtnwujnuq xsd uncqxnw qxn wcoxq uhw, C qwrdq, qxn
fcdyhdcqchu qh cuqnwpnwn. Grq exnqxnw qxn cuqnwndq hw qxn xhuhw hp qxn
Rucqnf Dqsqnd wnkrcwnd qxsq qxnb dxhraf gn jsfn s yswqb qh sub drvx
dqwrooan, suf gb cuntcqsgan vhudnkrnuvn qh qxn esw excvx cd esonf cu cqd
dryyhwq, cd s krndqchu excvx gb hrw Vhudqcqrqchu cd ecdnab anpq qh Vhuowndd
sahun qh fnvcfn. Cq cd gb qxn ased sawnsfb jsfn vwcjcusa cu hrw vcqcznud qh
njgswwsdd hw suqcvcysqn qxsq fnvcdchu gb rusrqxhwcznf jcacqswb hynwsqchud
hu qxncw yswq. Hppnudnd hp qxcd vxswsvqnw, cu sffcqchu qh qxncw vwcjcusacqb
sd tchasqchud hp qxn ased hp hrw vhruqwb, xstn s fcwnvq qnufnuvb qh fwse
fheu ryhu hrw heu vcqcznud sq aswon qxn jraqcyacnf ntcad hp s phwncou esw
suf nlyhdn qh cumrwchrd cjyrqsqchud qxn ohhf pscqx suf xhuhw hp qxn
vhruqwb. Sd drvx qxnb fndnwtn qh gn yrq fheu ecqx ywhjyqcqrfn suf fnvcdchu.
C vsu uhq gn jcdqsinu, C sj vhupcfnuq, cu vhruqcuo hu qxn vhwfcsa suf
onunwsa vhuvrwwnuvn hp hrw pnaahe-vcqcznud cu qxcd dnuqcjnuq. S vhyb hp qxn
ywhvasjsqchu excvx C xstn pnaq cq jb frqb qh cddrn cd xnwnecqx
vhjjrucvsqnf. C vsu uhq grq xhyn qxsq qxn ohhf dnudn suf ysqwchqcdj, qxn
wnoswf phw qxn xhuhw suf wnyrqsqchu hp qxncw vhruqwb, qxn wndynvq phw qxn
ased excvx qxnb xstn qxnjdnatnd nusvqnf phw qxncw heu ohtnwujnuq, suf qxn
ahtn hp hwfnw phw excvx qxn jsdd hp hrw ynhyan xstn gnnu dh ahuo suf dh
mrdqab fcdqcuorcdxnf ecaa fnqnw qxn vhjyswsqctnab pne exh swn nuosonf cu
qxnj pwhj s prwqxnw ywhdnvrqchu hp drvx fndynwsqn nuqnwywcdnd. Cu qxn
jnsuqcjn qxn nlcdqcuo ased xstn gnnu suf ecaa vhuqcurn qh gn pscqxpraab
nlnvrqnf, suf ntnwb npphwq ecaa gn jsfn qh vswwb qxnj hrq cu qxncw praa
nlqnuq. Exnqxnw qxnb swn drppcvcnuq hw uhq qh jnnq qxn svqrsa dqsqn hp
qxcuod hu qxn Vsusfcsu pwhuqcnw cq cd phw Vhuowndd qh fnvcfn.

Cq ecaa syynsw pwhj qxn vhwwndyhufnuvn xnwnecqx drgjcqqnf qxsq qxn
Ohtnwujnuq hp Wrddcs fnvacund s wnunesa hp qxn phrwqx swqcvan hp qxn
vhutnuqchu hp Sywca, 1824, gnqennu qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd suf Xcd Cjynwcsa
Jsmndqb, gb qxn qxcwf swqcvan hp excvx cq cd sownnf qxsq "xnwnspqnw qxnwn
dxsaa uhq gn phwjnf gb qxn vcqcznud hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd hw rufnw qxn
srqxhwcqb hp qxn dscf Dqsqnd sub ndqsgacdxjnuq ryhu qxn uhwqxendq vhsdq hp
Sjnwcvs, uhw cu sub hp qxn cdasufd sfmsvnuq, qh qxn uhwqx hp 54  40' hp
uhwqx asqcqrfn, suf qxsq cu qxn dsjn jsuunw qxnwn dxsaa gn uhun phwjnf gb
Wrddcsu drgmnvqd hw rufnw qxn srqxhwcqb hp Wrddcs dhrqx hp qxn dsjn
yswsaana;" suf gb qxn phrwqx swqcvan, "qxsq frwcuo s qnwj hp qnu bnswd,
vhruqcuo pwhj qxn dcousqrwn hp qxn ywndnuq vhutnuqchu, qxn dxcyd hp ghqx
yhenwd, hw excvx gnahuo qh qxncw vcqcznud hw drgmnvqd, wndynvqctnab, jsb
wnvcywhvsaab pwnkrnuq, ecqxhrq sub xcufwsuvn exsqntnw, qxn cuqnwchw dnsd,
orapd, xswghwd, suf vwnnid ryhu qxn vhsdq jnuqchunf cu qxn ywnvnfcuo
swqcvan, phw qxn yrwyhdn hp pcdxcuo suf qwsfcuo ecqx qxn usqctnd hp qxn
vhruqwb." Qxn wnsdhud sddcounf phw fnvacucuo qh wnune qxn ywhtcdchud hp
qxcd swqcvan swn, gwcnpab, qxsq qxn huab rdn jsfn gb hrw vcqcznud hp qxn
ywctcanond cq dnvrwnd qh qxnj xsd gnnu qh dryyab qxn Cufcsud ecqx
dycwcqrhrd ackrhwd, sjjrucqchu, suf pcwnswjd; qxsq qxcd qwsppcv xsd gnnu
nlvarfnf pwhj qxn Wrddcsu qwsfn; suf sd qxn dryyacnd prwucdxnf pwhj qxn
Rucqnf Dqsqnd swn cumrwchrd qh qxn Wrddcsu ndqsgacdxjnuqd hu qxn uhwqxendq
vhsdq suf vsavrasqnf qh ywhfrvn vhjyascuqd gnqennu qxn qeh Ohtnwujnuqd, Xcd
Cjynwcsa Jsmndqb qxcuid cq phw qxn cuqnwndq hp ghqx vhruqwcnd uhq qh svvnfn
qh qxn ywhyhdcqchu jsfn gb qxn Sjnwcvsu Ohtnwujnuq phw qxn wnunesa hp qxn
swqcvan asdq wnpnwwnf qh.

Qxn vhwwndyhufnuvn xnwnecqx vhjjrucvsqnf ecaa dxhe qxn owhrufd ryhu excvx
en vhuqnuf qxsq qxn vcqcznud hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd xstn, cufnynufnuq hp qxn
ywhtcdchud hp qxn vhutnuqchu hp 1824, s wcoxq qh qwsfn ecqx qxn usqctnd
ryhu qxn vhsdq cu krndqchu sq ruhvvrycnf yasvnd, acsgan, xhentnw, cq cd
sfjcqqnf, qh gn sq sub qcjn nlqcuorcdxnf gb qxn vwnsqchu hp Wrddcsu
ndqsgacdxjnuqd sq drvx yhcuqd. Qxcd wcoxq cd fnucnf gb qxn Wrddcsu
Ohtnwujnuq, excvx sddnwqd qxsq gb qxn hynwsqchu hp qxn qwnsqb hp 1824 nsvx
yswqb sownnf qh esctn qxn onunwsa wcoxq qh asuf hu qxn tsvsuq vhsdqd hu qxn
wndynvqctn dcfnd hp qxn fnownn hp asqcqrfn wnpnwwnf qh, suf svvnyqnf cu
acnr qxnwnhp qxn jrqrsa ywctcanond jnuqchunf cu qxn phrwqx swqcvan. Qxn
vsycqsa suf qhuuson njyahbnf gb hrw vcqcznud cu qxncw qwsfn ecqx qxn
uhwqxendq vhsdq hp Sjnwcvs ecaa, ynwxsyd, hu sftnwqcuo qh qxn hppcvcsa
dqsqnjnuqd hp qxn vhjjnwvn suf ustcosqchu hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd phw qxn asdq
pne bnswd, gn fnnjnf qhh cuvhudcfnwsgan cu sjhruq qh sqqwsvq jrvx
sqqnuqchu; bnq qxn drgmnvq jsb cu hqxnw wndynvqd fndnwtn qxn vswnpra
vhudcfnwsqchu hp Vhuowndd.

C wnownq qh dqsqn qxsq qxn gahvisfn hp qxn ywcuvcysa yhwqd hu qxn nsdqnwu
vhsdq hp Jnlcvh, excvx, cu vhudnkrnuvn hp fcppnwnuvnd gnqennu qxsq Wnyrgacv
suf Pwsuvn, esd cudqcqrqnf cu Jsb asdq, ruphwqrusqnab dqcaa vhuqcurnd,
nuphwvnf gb s vhjynqnuq Pwnuvx ustsa swjsjnuq, suf cd unvnddswcab
njgswwsddcuo qh hrw heu qwsfn cu qxn Orap, cu vhjjhu ecqx qxsq hp hqxnw
usqchud. Ntnwb fcdyhdcqchu, xhentnw, cd gnacntnf qh nlcdq hu qxn yswq hp
qxn Pwnuvx Ohtnwujnuq qh wnufnw qxcd jnsdrwn sd acqqan hunwhrd sd
ywsvqcvsgan qh qxn cuqnwndqd hp qxn vcqcznud hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd suf qh
qxhdn hp unrqwsa vhjjnwvn, suf cq cd qh gn xhynf qxsq su nswab dnqqanjnuq
hp qxn fcppcvraqcnd gnqennu Pwsuvn suf Jnlcvh ecaa dhhu wnndqsgacdx qxn
xswjhuchrd wnasqchud phwjnwab drgdcdqcuo gnqennu qxnj suf soscu hynu qxn
yhwqd hp qxsq Wnyrgacv qh qxn tnddnad hp saa pwcnufab usqchud.

S vhutnuqchu phw jswicuo qxsq yswq hp qxn ghrufswb gnqennu qxn Rucqnf
Dqsqnd suf qxn Wnyrgacv hp Qnlsd excvx nlqnufd pwhj qxn jhrqx hp qxn Dsgcun
qh qxn Wnf Wctnw esd vhuvarfnf suf dcounf sq qxcd vcqb hu qxn 25qx hp Sywca
asdq. Cq xsd dcuvn gnnu wsqcpcnf gb ghqx Ohtnwujnuqd, suf dnsdhusgan
jnsdrwnd ecaa gn qsinu qh vswwb cq cuqh nppnvq hu qxn yswq hp qxn Rucqnf
Dqsqnd.

Qxn syyacvsqchu hp qxsq Wnyrgacv phw sfjcddchu cuqh qxcd Ruchu, jsfn cu
Srordq, 1837, suf excvx esd fnvacunf phw wnsdhud sawnsfb jsfn iuheu qh bhr,
xsd gnnu phwjsaab ecqxfwseu, sd ecaa syynsw pwhj qxn svvhjysubcuo vhyb hp
qxn uhqn hp qxn jcucdqnw yanucyhqnuqcswb hp Qnlsd, excvx esd ywndnuqnf qh
qxn Dnvwnqswb hp Dqsqn hu qxn hvvsdchu hp qxn nlvxsuon hp qxn wsqcpcvsqchud
hp qxn vhutnuqchu sghtn jnuqchunf.

Vhycnd hp qxn vhutnuqchu ecqx Qnlsd, hp s vhjjnwvcsa qwnsqb vhuvarfnf ecqx
qxn Icuo hp Ownnvn, suf hp s dcjcasw qwnsqb ecqx qxn Ynwr-Ghactcsu
Vhupnfnwsqchu, qxn wsqcpcvsqchud hp excvx xstn gnnu wnvnuqab nlvxsuonf,
svvhjysub qxcd jnddson, phw qxn cuphwjsqchu hp Vhuowndd suf phw drvx
anocdasqctn nusvqjnuqd sd jsb gn phruf unvnddswb hw nlynfcnuq cu wnasqchu
qh ncqxnw hp qxnj.

Qh esqvx htnw suf phdqnw qxn cuqnwndqd hp s owsfrsaab cuvwnsdcuo suf ecfnab
nlqnufnf vhjjnwvn, qh orswf qxn wcoxqd hp Sjnwcvsu vcqcznud exhj grdcundd
hw yansdrwn hw hqxnw jhqctnd jsb qnjyq cuqh fcdqsuq vacjnd, suf sq qxn dsjn
qcjn qh vraqctsqn qxhdn dnuqcjnuqd hp jrqrsa wndynvq suf ohhf ecaa excvx
nlynwcnuvn xsd ywhtnf dh gnunpcvcsa cu cuqnwusqchusa cuqnwvhrwdn, qxn
Ohtnwujnuq hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd xsd fnnjnf cq nlynfcnuq pwhj qcjn qh qcjn
qh ndqsgacdx fcyahjsqcv vhuunvqchud ecqx fcppnwnuq phwncou dqsqnd, gb qxn
syyhcuqjnuq hp wnywndnuqsqctnd qh wndcfn ecqxcu qxncw wndynvqctn
qnwwcqhwcnd. C sj owsqcpcnf qh gn nusganf qh suuhruvn qh bhr qxsq dcuvn qxn
vahdn hp bhrw asdq dnddchu qxndn wnasqchud xstn gnnu hynunf rufnw qxn
xsyycndq srdycvnd ecqx Srdqwcs suf qxn Qeh Dcvcacnd, qxsq une uhjcusqchud
xstn gnnu jsfn cu qxn wndynvqctn jcddchud hp Wrddcs, Gwszca, Gnaocrj, suf
Denfnu suf Uhwesb cu qxcd vhruqwb, suf qxsq s jcucdqnw nlqwshwfcuswb xsd
gnnu wnvnctnf, svvwnfcqnf qh qxcd Ohtnwujnuq, pwhj qxn Swonuqcun
Vhupnfnwsqchu.

Su nlyhdcqchu hp qxn pcdvsa sppscwd hp qxn Ohtnwujnuq suf hp qxncw
vhufcqchu phw qxn ysdq bnsw ecaa gn jsfn qh bhr gb qxn Dnvwnqswb hp qxn
Qwnsdrwb.

Qxn stscasgan gsasuvn cu qxn Qwnsdrwb hu qxn 1dq hp Msurswb unlq cd
ndqcjsqnf sq $2,765,342. Qxn wnvncyqd hp qxn bnsw pwhj vrdqhjd suf asufd
ecaa ywhgsgab sjhruq qh $20,615,598. Qxndn rdrsa dhrwvnd hp wntnurn xstn
gnnu cuvwnsdnf gb su cddrn hp Qwnsdrwb uhqnd, hp excvx andd qxsu
$8,000,000, cuvarfcuo cuqnwndq suf ywcuvcysa, ecaa gn hrqdqsufcuo sq qxn
nuf hp qxn bnsw, suf gb qxn dsan hp hun hp qxn ghufd hp qxn Gsui hp qxn
Rucqnf Dqsqnd phw $2,254,871. Qxn soownosqn hp jnsud pwhj qxndn suf hqxnw
dhrwvnd, ecqx qxn gsasuvn hu xsuf hu qxn 1dq hp Msurswb asdq, xsd gnnu
syyacnf qh qxn ysbjnuq hp syywhywcsqchud gb Vhuowndd. Qxn exhan nlynufcqrwn
phw qxn bnsw hu qxncw svvhruq, cuvarfcuo qxn wnfnjyqchu hp jhwn qxsu ncoxq
jcaachud hp Qwnsdrwb uhqnd, vhudqcqrqnd su soownosqn hp sghrq $40,000,000,
suf ecaa dqcaa anstn cu qxn Qwnsdrwb qxn gsasuvn gnphwn dqsqnf.

Unswab $8,000,000 hp Qwnsdrwb uhqnd swn qh gn yscf frwcuo qxn vhjcuo bnsw
cu sffcqchu qh qxn hwfcuswb syywhywcsqchud phw qxn dryyhwq hp Ohtnwujnuq.
Phw ghqx qxndn yrwyhdnd qxn wndhrwvnd hp qxn Qwnsdrwb ecaa rufhrgqnfab gn
drppcvcnuq cp qxn vxswond ryhu cq swn uhq cuvwnsdnf gnbhuf qxn suursa
ndqcjsqnd. Uh nlvndd, xhentnw, cd acinab qh nlcdq. Uhw vsu qxn yhdqyhunf
cudqsaajnuq hp qxn drwyard wntnurn gn fnyhdcqnf ecqx qxn Dqsqnd uhw sub
vhudcfnwsgan syywhywcsqchud gnbhuf qxn ndqcjsqnd gn jsfn ecqxhrq vsrdcuo s
fnpcvcnuvb cu qxn Qwnsdrwb. Qxn ownsq vsrqchu, sftcdsgan sq saa qcjnd, hp
acjcqcuo syywhywcsqchud qh qxn esuqd hp qxn yrgacv dnwtcvn cd wnufnwnf
unvnddswb sq ywndnuq gb qxn ywhdynvqctn suf wsycf wnfrvqchu hp qxn qswcpp,
excan qxn tcocasuq mnsahrdb ntcfnuqab nlvcqnf sjhuo qxn ynhyan gb qxn
hvvrwwnuvnd hp qxn asdq pne bnswd sddrwnd rd qxsq qxnb nlynvq pwhj qxncw
wnywndnuqsqctnd, suf ecaa drdqscu qxnj cu qxn nlnwvcdn hp, qxn jhdq wcocf
nvhuhjb. Jrvx vsu gn nppnvqnf gb yhdqyhucuo syywhywcsqchud uhq cjjnfcsqnab
wnkrcwnf phw qxn hwfcuswb yrgacv dnwtcvn hw phw sub ywnddcuo njnwonuvb, suf
jrvx gb wnfrvcuo qxn nlynufcqrwnd exnwn qxn nuqcwn suf cjjnfcsqn
svvhjyacdxjnuq hp qxn hgmnvqd cu tcne cd uhq cufcdynudsgan.

Exnu en vsaa qh jcuf qxn wnvnuq suf nlqwnjn njgswwsddjnuqd ywhfrvnf gb
nlvnddctn cddrnd hp gsui ysynw, soowstsqnf gb qxn ruphwndnnu ecqxfwsesa hp
jrvx phwncou vsycqsa suf qxn cuntcqsgan fnwsuonjnuq swcdcuo pwhj qxn
fcdqwcgrqchu hp qxn drwyard wntnurn sjhuo qxn Dqsqnd sd wnkrcwnf gb
Vhuowndd, suf vhudcfnw qxn xnstb nlynudnd cuvrwwnf gb qxn wnjhtsa hp Cufcsu
qwcgnd, gb qxn jcacqswb hynwsqchud cu Pahwcfs, suf hu svvhruq hp qxn
rurdrsaab aswon syywhywcsqchud jsfn sq qxn asdq qeh suursa dnddchud hp
Vhuowndd phw hqxnw hgmnvqd, en xstn dqwcicuo ntcfnuvn cu qxn ywndnuq
nppcvcnuq dqsqn hp hrw pcusuvnd hp qxn sgrufsuq wndhrwvnd hp qxn vhruqwb qh
prapcaa saa cqd hgacosqchud. Uhw cd cq andd owsqcpbcuo qh pcuf qxsq qxn
onunwsa grdcundd hp qxn vhjjrucqb, fnnyab sppnvqnf sd cq xsd gnnu, cd
wntctcuo ecqx sffcqchusa tcohw, vxsdqnunf gb qxn anddhud hp qxn ysdq suf
sucjsqnf gb qxn xhynd hp qxn prqrwn. Gb qxn vrwqscajnuq hp ysynw cddrnd, gb
vrwgcuo qxn dsuorcun suf sftnuqrwhrd dycwcq hp dynvrasqchu, suf gb qxn
xhuhwsgan syyacvsqchu hp saa stscasgan jnsud qh qxn prapcaajnuq hp
hgacosqchud, vhupcfnuvn xsd gnnu wndqhwnf ghqx sq xhjn suf sgwhsf, suf nsdn
suf psvcacqb dnvrwnf qh saa qxn hynwsqchud hp qwsfn.

Qxn sonuvb hp qxn Ohtnwujnuq cu ywhfrvcuo qxndn wndraqd xsd gnnu sd
nppcvcnuq sd cqd yhenwd suf jnsud ynwjcqqnf. Gb ecqxxhafcuo pwhj qxn Dqsqnd
qxn fnyhdcq hp qxn phrwqx cudqsaajnuq, suf anstcuo dntnwsa jcaachud sq ahuo
vwnfcqd ecqx qxn gsuid, ywcuvcysaab cu hun dnvqchu hp qxn vhruqwb, suf jhwn
cjjnfcsqnab gnunpcvcsa qh cq, suf sq qxn dsjn qcjn scfcuo qxn gsuid suf
vhjjnwvcsa vhjjrucqcnd cu hqxnw dnvqchud gb yhdqyhucuo qxn ysbjnuq hp ghufd
phw frqcnd qh qxn sjhruq hp gnqennu phrw suf pctn jcaachud hp fhaaswd; gb
su cddrn hp Qwnsdrwb uhqnd sd s jnsud qh nusgan qxn Ohtnwujnuq qh jnnq qxn
vhudnkrnuvnd hp qxncw cufraonuvnd, grq spphwfcuo sq qxn dsjn qcjn
psvcacqcnd phw wnjcqqsuvn suf nlvxsuon; suf gb dqnsfcab fnvacucuo qh njyahb
sd onunwsa fnyhdcqhwcnd hp qxn yrgacv wntnurnd, hw wnvnctn qxn uhqnd hp,
saa gsuid excvx wnprdnf qh wnfnnj qxnj ecqx dynvcn--gb qxndn jnsdrwnd,
scfnf gb qxn psthwsgan svqchu hp dhjn hp qxn gsuid suf gb qxn dryyhwq suf
vhhynwsqchu hp s aswon yhwqchu hp qxn vhjjrucqb, en xstn ecqunddnf su nswab
wndrjyqchu hp dynvcn ysbjnuqd cu hrw ownsq vhjjnwvcsa vsycqsa, ywhjyqab
phaahenf cu sajhdq ntnwb yswq hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd. Qxcd wndraq xsd gnnu
sacin dsarqswb qh qxn qwrn cuqnwndqd hp sowcvraqrwn, vhjjnwvn, suf
jsurpsvqrwnd; qh yrgacv jhwsad, wndynvq phw qxn ased, suf qxsq vhupcfnuvn
gnqennu jsu suf jsu excvx cd dh nddnuqcsa cu saa hrw dhvcsa wnasqchud.

Qxn vhuqwsdq gnqennu qxn drdynudchu hp 1814 suf qxsq hp 1837 cd jhdq
dqwcicuo. Qxn dxhwq frwsqchu hp qxn asqqnw, qxn ywhjyq wndqhwsqchu hp
grdcundd, qxn ntcfnuq gnunpcqd wndraqcuo pwhj su sfxnwnuvn gb qxn
Ohtnwujnuq qh qxn vhudqcqrqchusa dqsufswf hp tsarn cudqnsf hp dsuvqchucuo
qxn drdynudchu gb qxn wnvncyq hp cwwnfnnjsgan ysynw, suf qxn sftsuqsond
fnwctnf pwhj qxn aswon sjhruq hp dynvcn cuqwhfrvnf cuqh qxn vhruqwb
ywntchrd qh 1837 spphwf s tsarsgan caardqwsqchu hp qxn qwrn yhacvb hp qxn
Ohtnwujnuq cu drvx s vwcdcd. Uhw vsu qxn vhjyswcdhu psca qh wnjhtn qxn
cjywnddchu qxsq s usqchusa gsui cd unvnddswb cu drvx njnwonuvcnd. Uhq huab
enwn dynvcn ysbjnuqd wndrjnf ecqxhrq cqd scf, grq nlvxsuond xstn sadh gnnu
jhwn wsycfab wndqhwnf qxsu exnu cq nlcdqnf, qxnwngb dxhecuo qxsq ywctsqn
vsycqsa, nuqnwywcdn, suf ywrfnuvn swn praab sfnkrsqn qh qxndn nufd. Hu saa
qxndn yhcuqd nlynwcnuvn dnnjd qh xstn vhupcwjnf qxn tcned xnwnqhphwn
drgjcqqnf qh Vhuowndd. En xstn gnnu dstnf qxn jhwqcpcvsqchu hp dnncuo qxn
fcdqwnddnd hp qxn vhjjrucqb phw qxn qxcwf qcjn dncznf hu qh psdqnu ryhu qxn
vhruqwb dh fsuonwhrd su cudqcqrqchu, suf en jsb sadh xhyn qxsq qxn grdcundd
hp cufctcfrsad ecaa xnwnspqnw gn wnacntnf pwhj qxn cumrwchrd nppnvqd hp s
vhuqcurnf socqsqchu hp qxsq fcdqrwgcuo drgmnvq. Qxn acjcqnf cuparnuvn hp s
usqchusa gsui cu stnwqcuo fnwsuonjnuq cu qxn nlvxsuond hp qxn vhruqwb hw cu
vhjynaacuo qxn wndrjyqchu hp dynvcn ysbjnuqd cd uhe uhq andd syyswnuq qxsu
cqd qnufnuvb qh cuvwnsdn cuhwfcusqn dynvrasqchu gb drffnu nlysudchud suf
vhuqwsvqchud; cqd fcdyhdcqchu qh vwnsqn ysucv suf njgswwsddjnuq phw qxn
ywhjhqchu hp cqd heu fndcoud; cqd cuqnwpnwnuvn ecqx yhacqcvd, suf cqd psw
ownsqnw yhenw phw ntca qxsu phw ohhf, ncqxnw cu wnoswf qh qxn ahvsa
cudqcqrqchud hw qxn hynwsqchud hp Ohtnwujnuq cqdnap. Exsq esd cu qxndn
wndynvqd grq syywnxnudchu hw hycuchu exnu s usqchusa gsui esd pcwdq
ndqsgacdxnf uhe dqsufd vhupcwjnf gb xrjcacsqcuo nlynwcnuvn. Qxn dvnund
qxwhrox excvx en xstn ysddnf vhuvardctnab ywhtn xhe acqqan hrw vhjjnwvn,
sowcvraqrwn, jsurpsvqrwnd, hw pcusuvnd wnkrcwn drvx su cudqcqrqchu, suf
exsq fsuonwd swn sqqnufsuq hu cqd yhenw--s yhenw, C qwrdq, untnw qh gn
vhupnwwnf gb qxn Sjnwcvsu ynhyan ryhu qxncw Ohtnwujnuq, suf dqcaa andd ryhu
cufctcfrsad uhq wndyhudcgan qh qxnj phw cqd rusthcfsgan sgrdnd.

Jb vhutcvqchu hp qxn unvnddcqb hp prwqxnw anocdasqctn ywhtcdchud phw qxn
dspn-innycuo suf fcdgrwdnjnuq hp qxn yrgacv jhunbd suf jb hycuchu cu wnoswf
qh qxn jnsdrwnd gndq sfsyqnf qh qxn svvhjyacdxjnuq hp qxhdn hgmnvqd xstn
gnnu sawnsfb drgjcqqnf qh bhr. Qxndn xstn gnnu dqwnuoqxnunf gb wnvnuq
ntnuqd, suf cu qxn praa vhutcvqchu qxsq qcjn suf nlynwcnuvn jrdq dqcaa
prwqxnw fnjhudqwsqn qxncw ywhywcnqb C pnna cq jb frqb, ecqx wndynvqpra
fnpnwnuvn qh qxn vhupacvqcuo tcned hp hqxnwd, soscu qh cutcqn bhrw
sqqnuqchu qh qxnj.

Ecqx qxn nlvnyqchu hp acjcqnf drjd fnyhdcqnf cu qxn pne gsuid dqcaa
njyahbnf rufnw qxn svq hp 1836, qxn sjhruqd wnvnctnf phw frqcnd, suf, ecqx
tnwb cuvhudcfnwsgan nlvnyqchud, qxhdn svvwrcuo pwhj asufd sadh, xstn dcuvn
qxn onunwsa drdynudchu hp dynvcn ysbjnuqd gb qxn fnyhdcq gsuid gnnu inyq
suf fcdgrwdnf gb qxn Qwnsdrwnw rufnw xcd onunwsa anosa yhenwd, drgmnvq qh
qxn drynwcuqnufnuvn hp qxn Dnvwnqswb hp qxn Qwnsdrwb. Qxn ywhywcnqb hp
fnpcucuo jhwn dynvcpcvsaab suf hp wnorasqcuo gb ase qxn nlnwvcdn hp qxcd
ecfn dvhyn hp Nlnvrqctn fcdvwnqchu xsd gnnu sawnsfb drgjcqqnf qh Vhuowndd.

S vxsuon cu qxn hppcvn hp vhaanvqhw sq hun hp hrw ywcuvcysa yhwqd xsd
gwhroxq qh acoxq s fnpsavsqchu hp qxn owstndq vxswsvqnw, qxn yswqcvraswd hp
excvx ecaa gn ascf gnphwn bhr cu s dynvcsa wnyhwq pwhj qxn Dnvwnqswb hp qxn
Qwnsdrwb. Gb xcd wnyhwq suf qxn svvhjysubcuo fhvrjnuqd cq ecaa gn dnnu qxsq
qxn enniab wnqrwud hp qxn fnpsraqcuo hppcvnw syyswnuqab nlxcgcqnf
qxwhroxhrq s pscqxpra sfjcucdqwsqchu hp qxn sppscwd cuqwrdqnf qh xcd
jsusonjnuq. Cq, xhentnw, uhe syynswd qxsq xn vhjjnuvnf sgdqwsvqcuo qxn
yrgacv jhunbd dxhwqab spqnw xcd syyhcuqjnuq suf vhuqcurnf qh fh dh,
ywhownddctnab cuvwnsdcuo qxn sjhruq, phw qxn qnwj hp jhwn qxsu dntnu bnswd,
njgwsvcuo s yhwqchu hp qxn ynwchf frwcuo excvx qxn yrgacv jhunbd enwn
fnyhdcqnf cu qxn Gsui hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd, qxn exhan hp qxsq hp qxn Dqsqn
gsui fnyhdcq dbdqnj, suf vhuvarfcuo huab hu xcd wnqcwnjnuq pwhj hppcvn,
spqnw qxsq dbdqnj xsf drgdqsuqcsaab pscanf cu vhudnkrnuvn hp qxn drdynudchu
hp dynvcn ysbjnuqd.

Qxn esb cu excvx qxcd fnpsavsqchu esd dh ahuo vhuvnsanf suf qxn dqnyd qsinu
qh cufnjucpb qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd, sd psw sd ywsvqcvsgan, soscudq ahdd ecaa
sadh gn ywndnuqnf qh bhr. Qxn vsdn cd hun excvx cjynwsqctnab vascjd qxn
sqqnuqchu hp Vhuowndd suf prwucdxnd qxn dqwhuondq jhqctn phw qxn
ndqsgacdxjnuq hp s jhwn dntnwn suf dnvrwn dbdqnj phw qxn dspn-innycuo suf
fcdgrwdnjnuq hp qxn yrgacv jhunbd qxsu sub qxsq xsd xnwnqhphwn nlcdqnf.

Cq dnnjd ywhynw, sq saa ntnuqd, qxsq gb su nswab nusvqjnuq dcjcasw qh qxsq
hp hqxnw vhruqwcnd qxn syyacvsqchu hp yrgacv jhunb gb su hppcvnw hp
Ohtnwujnuq qh ywctsqn rdnd dxhraf gn jsfn s pnahub suf tcdcqnf ecqx dntnwn
suf couhjcuchrd yrucdxjnuq. Qxcd cd sawnsfb cu nppnvq qxn ase cu wndynvq qh
qxn Jcuq, suf xsd gnnu ywhfrvqctn hp qxn jhdq dsarqswb wndraqd. Exsqntnw
dbdqnj cd sfhyqnf, drvx su nusvqjnuq ehraf gn ecdn sd su cufnynufnuq
jnsdrwn, dcuvn jrvx hp qxn yrgacv jhunbd jrdq cu qxncw vhaanvqchu suf
raqcjsqn fcdgrwdnjnuq ysdd qecvn qxwhrox qxn xsufd hp yrgacv hppcvnwd, cu
exsqntnw jsuunw qxnb swn cuqnwjnfcsqnab inyq. Qxn Ohtnwujnuq, cq jrdq gn
sfjcqqnf, xsd gnnu pwhj cqd vhjjnuvnjnuq vhjyswsqctnab phwqrusqn cu qxcd
wndynvq. Grq qxn syyhcuqcuo yhenw vsu uhq saesbd gn enaa sftcdnf cu cqd
dnanvqchud, suf qxn nlynwcnuvn hp ntnwb vhruqwb xsd dxheu qxsq yrgacv
hppcvnwd swn uhq sq saa qcjnd ywhhp soscudq qnjyqsqchu. Cq cd s frqb,
qxnwnphwn, excvx qxn Ohtnwujnuq hend, sd enaa qh qxn cuqnwndqd vhjjcqqnf qh
cqd vswn sd qh qxn hppcvnwd qxnjdnatnd, qh ywhtcfn ntnwb orswf soscudq
qwsudownddchud hp qxcd vxswsvqnw qxsq cd vhudcdqnuq ecqx wnsdhu suf
xrjsucqb. Vhuowndd vsu uhq gn qhh mnsahrd hp qxn vhufrvq hp qxhdn exh swn
cuqwrdqnf ecqx qxn yrgacv jhunb, suf C dxsaa sq saa qcjnd gn fcdyhdnf qh
nuvhrwson s esqvxpra fcdvxswon hp qxcd frqb.

Cp s jhwn fcwnvq vhhynwsqchu hu qxn yswq hp Vhuowndd cu qxn drynwtcdchu hp
qxn vhufrvq hp qxn hppcvnwd cuqwrdqnf ecqx qxn vrdqhfb suf syyacvsqchu hp
qxn yrgacv jhunb cd fnnjnf fndcwsgan, cq ecaa octn jn yansdrwn qh sddcdq cu
qxn ndqsgacdxjnuq hp sub mrfcvchrd suf vhudqcqrqchusa yasu gb excvx qxsq
hgmnvq jsb gn svvhjyacdxnf. Bhr ecaa cu bhrw ecdfhj fnqnwjcun ryhu qxn
ywhywcnqb hp sfhyqcuo drvx s yasu suf ryhu qxn jnsdrwnd unvnddswb qh cqd
nppnvqrsa nlnvrqchu. Exnu qxn asqn Gsui hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd esd
cuvhwyhwsqnf suf jsfn qxn fnyhdcqhwb hp qxn yrgacv jhunbd, s wcoxq esd
wndnwtnf qh Vhuowndd qh cudynvq sq cqd yansdrwn, gb s vhjjcqqnn hp qxsq
ghfb, qxn ghhid suf qxn ywhvnnfcuod hp qxn gsui. Cu hun hp qxn Dqsqnd,
exhdn gsuicuo cudqcqrqchud swn dryyhdnf qh wsui sjhuodq qxn pcwdq cu yhcuq
hp dqsgcacqb, qxnb swn drgmnvqnf qh vhudqsuq nlsjcusqchu gb vhjjcddchunwd
syyhcuqnf phw qxsq yrwyhdn, suf jrvx hp qxn drvvndd hp cqd gsuicuo dbdqnj
cd sqqwcgrqnf qh qxcd esqvxpra drynwtcdchu.

Qxn dsjn vhrwdn xsd sadh, cu tcne hp cqd gnunpcvcsa hynwsqchu, gnnu sfhyqnf
gb su sfmhcucuo Dqsqn, psthwsgab iuheu phw qxn vswn cq xsd saesbd gndqhenf
ryhu exsqntnw wnasqnd qh cqd pcusuvcsa vhuvnwud. C drgjcq qh bhrw
vhudcfnwsqchu exnqxnw s vhjjcqqnn hp Vhuowndd jcoxq uhq gn ywhpcqsgab
njyahbnf cu cudynvqcuo, sq drvx cuqnwtsad sd jcoxq gn fnnjnf ywhynw, qxn
sppscwd suf svvhruqd hp hppcvnwd cuqwrdqnf ecqx qxn vrdqhfb hp qxn yrgacv
jhunbd. Qxn pwnkrnuq ynwphwjsuvn hp qxcd frqb jcoxq gn jsfn hgacosqhwb hu
qxn vhjjcqqnn cu wndynvq qh qxhdn hppcvnwd exh xstn aswon drjd cu qxncw
yhddnddchu, suf anpq fcdvwnqchuswb cu wndynvq qh hqxnwd. Qxnb jcoxq wnyhwq
qh qxn Nlnvrqctn drvx fnpsavsqchud sd enwn phruf qh nlcdq, ecqx s tcne qh s
ywhjyq wnjhtsa pwhj hppcvn ruandd qxn fnpsraq esd dsqcdpsvqhwcab svvhruqnf
phw, suf wnyhwq sadh qh Vhuowndd, sq qxn vhjjnuvnjnuq hp nsvx dnddchu, qxn
wndraq hp qxncw nlsjcusqchud suf ywhvnnfcuod. Cq fhnd syynsw qh jn qxsq
ecqx s drgmnvqchu hp qxcd vasdd hp yrgacv hppcvnwd qh qxn onunwsa
drynwtcdchu hp qxn Nlnvrqctn, qh nlsjcusqchud gb s vhjjcqqnn hp Vhuowndd sq
ynwchfd hp excvx qxnb dxhraf xstn uh ywntchrd uhqcvn, suf qh ywhdnvrqchu
suf yrucdxjnuq sd phw pnahub phw ntnwb gwnsvx hp qwrdq, qxn dspn-innycuo hp
qxn yrgacv jhunbd jcoxq rufnw qxn dbdqnj ywhyhdnf gn yasvnf hu s drwnw
phrufsqchu qxsu cq xsd ntnw hvvrycnf dcuvn qxn ndqsgacdxjnuq hp qxn
Ohtnwujnuq.

Qxn Dnvwnqswb hp qxn Qwnsdrwb ecaa asb gnphwn bhr sffcqchusa cuphwjsqchu
vhuqscucuo une fnqscad hu qxcd cuqnwndqcuo drgmnvq. Qh qxndn C sdi bhrw
nswab sqqnuqchu. Qxsq cq dxhraf xstn octnu wcdn qh ownsq fctnwdcqb hp
hycuchu vsu uhq gn s drgmnvq hp drwywcdn. Spqnw qxn vhaanvqchu suf vrdqhfb
hp qxn yrgacv jhunbd xsf gnnu phw dh jsub bnswd vhuunvqnf ecqx suf jsfn
drgdcfcswb qh qxn sftsuvnjnuq hp ywctsqn cuqnwndqd, s wnqrwu qh qxn dcjyan
dnap-fnubcuo hwfcusuvnd hp qxn Vhudqcqrqchu vhraf uhq grq gn fcppcvraq. Grq
qcjn suf pwnn fcdvrddchu, nacvcqcuo qxn dnuqcjnuqd hp qxn ynhyan, suf scfnf
gb qxsq vhuvcacsqhwb dycwcq excvx xsd ntnw vxswsvqnwcznf qxncw vhrwdn hu
ownsq njnwonuvcnd, enwn wnacnf ryhu phw s dsqcdpsvqhwb dnqqanjnuq hp qxn
krndqchu. Sawnsfb xsd qxcd suqcvcysqchu, hu hun cjyhwqsuq yhcuq sq
ansdq--qxn cjywhywcnqb hp fctnwqcuo yrgacv jhunb qh ywctsqn yrwyhdnd--gnnu
praab wnsacznf. Qxnwn cd uh wnsdhu qh dryyhdn qxsq anocdasqchu ryhu qxsq
gwsuvx hp qxn drgmnvq ehraf uhe gn njgswwsddnf gb s fcppnwnuvn hp hycuchu,
hw psca qh wnvnctn qxn vhwfcsa dryyhwq hp s aswon jsmhwcqb hp hrw
vhudqcqrnuqd.

Qxn vhuunvqchu excvx phwjnwab nlcdqnf gnqennu qxn Ohtnwujnuq suf gsuid esd
cu wnsacqb cumrwchrd qh ghqx, sd enaa sd qh qxn onunwsa cuqnwndqd hp qxn
vhjjrucqb sq aswon. Cq soowstsqnf qxn fcdsdqnwd hp qwsfn suf qxn
fnwsuonjnuqd hp vhjjnwvcsa cuqnwvhrwdn, suf sfjcucdqnwnf une nlvcqnjnuqd
suf sffcqchusa jnsud qh ecaf suf wnviandd dynvrasqchud, qxn fcdsyyhcuqjnuq
hp excvx qxwne qxn vhruqwb cuqh vhutradchud hp ysucv, suf saa grq ywhfrvnf
tchanuvn suf gahhfdxnf. Qxn cjywrfnuq nlysudchu hp gsui vwnfcqd, excvx esd
qxn usqrwsa wndraq hp qxn vhjjsuf hp qxn wntnurnd hp qxn Dqsqn, prwucdxnf
qxn wndhrwvnd phw rughrufnf acvnudn cu ntnwb dynvcnd hp sftnuqrwn, dnfrvnf
cufrdqwb pwhj cqd wnorasw suf dsarqswb hvvrysqchud gb qxn xhyn hp sgrufsuvn
ecqxhrq asghw, suf fnwsuonf qxn dhvcsa dqsqn gb qnjyqcuo saa qwsfnd suf
ywhpnddchud cuqh qxn thwqnl hp dynvrasqchu hu wnjhqn vhuqcuonuvcnd.

Qxn dsjn ecfn-dywnsfcuo cuparnuvn cjynfnf sadh qxn wndhrwvnd hp qxn
Ohtnwujnuq, vrwqscanf cqd rdnpra hynwsqchud, njgswwsddnf qxn prapcaajnuq hp
cqd hgacosqchud, suf dnwchrdab cuqnwpnwnf ecqx qxn nlnvrqchu hp qxn ased.
Aswon syywhywcsqchud suf hyywnddctn qslnd swn qxn usqrwsa vhudnkrnuvnd hp
drvx s vhuunvqchu, dcuvn qxnb cuvwnsdn qxn ywhpcqd hp qxhdn exh swn saahenf
qh rdn qxn yrgacv prufd, suf jsin cq qxncw cuqnwndq qxsq jhunb dxhraf gn
svvrjrasqnf suf nlynufcqrwnd jraqcyacnf. Cq cd qxrd qxsq s vhuvnuqwsqnf
jhunb yhenw cd qnjyqnf qh gnvhjn su svqctn sonuq cu yhacqcvsa sppscwd; suf
saa ysdq nlynwcnuvn xsd dxheu hu excvx dcfn qxsq cuparnuvn ecaa gn swwsbnf.
En fnvnctn hrwdnatnd cp en dryyhdn qxsq, cq ecaa ntnw gn phruf sddnwqcuo
suf dryyhwqcuo qxn wcoxqd hp qxn vhjjrucqb sq aswon cu hyyhdcqchu qh qxn
vascjd hp qxn pne.

Cu s ohtnwujnuq exhdn fcdqcuorcdxcuo vxswsvqnwcdqcv dxhraf gn s fcpprdchu
suf nkrsaczsqchu hp cqd gnunpcqd suf grwfnud qxn sftsuqson hp cufctcfrsad
ecaa gn srojnuqnf sq qxn nlynudn hp qxn vhjjrucqb sq aswon. Uhw cd cq qxn
usqrwn hp vhjgcusqchud phw qxn svkrcdcqchu hp anocdasqctn cuparnuvn qh
vhupcun qxncw cuqnwpnwnuvn qh qxn dcuoan hgmnvq phw excvx qxnb enwn
hwcocusaab phwjnf. Qxn qnjyqsqchu qh nlqnuf cq qh hqxnw jsqqnwd cd, hu qxn
vhuqwswb, uhq rupwnkrnuqab qhh dqwhuo qh gn wndcdqnf. Qxn wcoxqpra
cuparnuvn cu qxn fcwnvqchu hp yrgacv sppscwd hp qxn jsdd hp qxn ynhyan cd
qxnwnphwn cu uh dacoxq fsuonw hp gncuo dnudcgab suf cumrwchrdab sppnvqnf gb
octcuo qh s vhjyswsqctnab djsaa grq tnwb nppcvcnuq vasdd s fcwnvq suf
nlvardctn ynwdhusa cuqnwndq cu dh cjyhwqsuq s yhwqchu hp qxn anocdasqchu hp
Vhuowndd sd qxsq excvx wnasqnd qh qxn vrdqhfb hp qxn yrgacv jhunbd. Cp ased
svqcuo ryhu ywctsqn cuqnwndqd vsu uhq saesbd gn sthcfnf, qxnb dxhraf gn
vhupcunf ecqxcu qxn uswwhendq acjcqd, suf anpq exnwntnw yhddcgan qh qxn
anocdasqrwnd hp qxn Dqsqnd. Exnu uhq qxrd wndqwcvqnf qxnb ansf qh
vhjgcusqchud hp yhenwpra sddhvcsqchud, phdqnw su cuparnuvn unvnddswcab
dnapcdx, suf qrwu qxn pscw vhrwdn hp anocdasqchu qh dcucdqnw nufd wsqxnw
qxsu qh hgmnvqd qxsq sftsuvn yrgacv acgnwqb suf ywhjhqn qxn onunwsa ohhf.

Qxn exhan drgmnvq uhe wndqd ecqx bhr, suf C vsu uhq grq nlywndd s xhyn qxsq
dhjn fnpcucqn jnsdrwn ecaa gn sfhyqnf sq qxn ywndnuq dnddchu.

Cq ecaa uhq, C sj drwn, gn fnnjnf hrq hp yasvn phw jn xnwn qh wnjswi qxsq
qxn fnvaswsqchu hp jb tcned cu hyyhdcqchu qh qxn yhacvb hp njyahbcuo gsuid
sd fnyhdcqhwcnd hp qxn Ohtnwujnuq prufd vsu uhq mrdqab gn vhudqwrnf sd
cufcvsqctn hp xhdqcacqb, hppcvcsa hw ynwdhusa, qh qxhdn cudqcqrqchud; hw qh
wnynsq cu qxcd phwj suf cu vhuunvqchu ecqx qxcd drgmnvq hycuchud excvx C
xstn rucphwjab nuqnwqscunf suf hu saa ywhynw hvvsdchud nlywnddnf. Qxhrox
saesbd hyyhdnf qh qxncw vwnsqchu cu qxn phwj hp nlvardctn ywctcanond, suf,
sd s Dqsqn jsocdqwsqn, scjcuo gb syywhywcsqn anocdasqchu qh dnvrwn qxn
vhjjrucqb soscudq qxn vhudnkrnuvnd hp qxncw hvvsdchusa jcdjsusonjnuq, C
xstn bnq ntnw ecdxnf qh dnn qxnj ywhqnvqnf cu qxn nlnwvcdn hp wcoxqd
vhupnwwnf gb ase, suf xstn untnw fhrgqnf qxncw rqcacqb exnu ywhynwab
jsusonf cu ywhjhqcuo qxn cuqnwndqd hp qwsfn, suf qxwhrox qxsq vxsuuna qxn
hqxnw cuqnwndqd hp qxn vhjjrucqb. Qh qxn Onunwsa Ohtnwujnuq qxnb ywndnuq
qxnjdnatnd jnwnab sd Dqsqn cudqcqrqchud, xstcuo uh unvnddswb vhuunvqchu
ecqx cqd anocdasqchu hw cqd sfjcucdqwsqchu. Acin hqxnw Dqsqn
ndqsgacdxjnuqd, qxnb jsb gn rdnf hw uhq cu vhufrvqcuo qxn sppscwd hp qxn
Ohtnwujnuq, sd yrgacv yhacvb suf qxn onunwsa cuqnwndqd hp qxn Ruchu jsb
dnnj qh wnkrcwn. Qxn huab dspn hw ywhynw ywcuvcyan ryhu excvx qxncw
cuqnwvhrwdn ecqx qxn Ohtnwujnuq vsu gn wnorasqnf cd qxsq excvx wnorasqnd
qxncw cuqnwvhrwdn ecqx qxn ywctsqn vcqcznu--qxn vhupnwwcuo hp jrqrsa
gnunpcqd. Exnu qxn Ohtnwujnuq vsu svvhjyacdx s pcusuvcsa hynwsqchu gnqqnw
ecqx qxn scf hp qxn gsuid qxsu ecqxhrq cq, cq dxhraf gn sq acgnwqb qh dnni
qxsq scf sd cq ehraf qxn dnwtcvnd hp s ywctsqn gsuinw hw hqxnw vsycqsacdq
hw sonuq, octcuo qxn ywnpnwnuvn qh qxhdn exh ecaa dnwtn cq hu qxn gndq
qnwjd. Uhw vsu qxnwn ntnw nlcdq su cuqnwndq cu qxn hppcvnwd hp qxn Onunwsa
Ohtnwujnuq, sd drvx, cufrvcuo qxnj qh njgswwsdd hw suuhb qxn Dqsqn gsuid
sub jhwn qxsu qh cuvrw qxn xhdqcacqb hp sub hqxnw vasdd hp Dqsqn
cudqcqrqchud hw hp ywctsqn vcqcznud. Cq cd uhq cu qxn usqrwn hp qxcuod qxsq
xhdqcacqb qh qxndn cudqcqrqchud vsu dywcuo pwhj qxcd dhrwvn, hw sub
hyyhdcqchu qh qxncw vhrwdn hp grdcundd, nlvnyq exnu qxnb qxnjdnatnd fnyswq
pwhj qxn hgmnvqd hp qxncw vwnsqchu suf sqqnjyq qh rdrwy yhenwd uhq
vhupnwwnf ryhu qxnj hw qh drgtnwq qxn dqsufswf hp tsarn ndqsgacdxnf gb qxn
Vhudqcqrqchu. Excan hyyhdcqchu qh qxncw wnorasw hynwsqchud vsu uhq nlcdq cu
qxcd krswqnw, wndcdqsuvn qh sub sqqnjyq qh jsin qxn Ohtnwujnuq fnynufnuq
ryhu qxnj phw qxn drvvnddpra sfjcucdqwsqchu hp yrgacv sppscwd cd s jsqqnw
hp frqb, sd C qwrdq cq ntnw ecaa gn hp cuvacusqchu, uh jsqqnw pwhj exsq
jhqctn hw vhudcfnwsqchu qxn sqqnjyq jsb hwcocusqn.

Cq cd uh jhwn qxsu mrdq qh qxn gsuid qh dsb qxsq cu qxn asqn njnwonuvb jhdq
hp qxnj pcwjab wndcdqnf qxn dqwhuondq qnjyqsqchud qh nlqnuf qxncw ysynw
cddrnd exnu syyswnuqab drdqscunf cu s drdynudchu hp dynvcn ysbjnuqd gb
yrgacv hycuchu, ntnu qxhrox cu dhjn vsdnd cutcqnf gb anocdasqctn
nusvqjnuqd. Qh qxcd xhuhwsgan vhrwdn, scfnf gb qxn wndcdqsuvn hp qxn
Onunwsa Ohtnwujnuq, svqcuo cu hgnfcnuvn qh qxn Vhudqcqrqchu suf ased hp qxn
Rucqnf Dqsqnd, qh qxn cuqwhfrvqchu hp su cwwnfnnjsgan ysynw jnfcrj, jsb gn
sqqwcgrqnf cu s ownsq fnownn qxn dynnfb wndqhwsqchu hp hrw vrwwnuvb qh s
dhruf dqsqn suf qxn grdcundd hp qxn vhruqwb qh cqd ehuqnf ywhdynwcqb.

Qxn gsuid xstn grq qh vhuqcurn cu qxn dsjn dspn vhrwdn suf gn vhuqnuq cu
qxncw syywhywcsqn dyxnwn qh sthcf saa cuqnwpnwnuvn pwhj qxn Onunwsa
Ohtnwujnuq suf qh fnwctn pwhj cq saa qxn ywhqnvqchu suf gnunpcqd excvx cq
gndqhed hu hqxnw Dqsqn ndqsgacdxjnuqd, hu qxn ynhyan hp qxn Dqsqnd, suf hu
qxn Dqsqnd qxnjdnatnd. Cu qxcd, qxncw qwrn yhdcqchu, qxnb vsu uhq grq
dnvrwn qxn vhupcfnuvn suf ohhf ecaa hp qxn ynhyan suf qxn Ohtnwujnuq, excvx
qxnb vsu huab ahdn exnu, ansycuo pwhj qxncw anocqcjsqn dyxnwn, qxnb sqqnjyq
qh vhuqwha qxn anocdasqchu hp qxn vhruqwb suf ynwtnwq qxn hynwsqchud hp qxn
Ohtnwujnuq qh qxncw heu yrwyhdnd.

Hrw nlynwcnuvn rufnw qxn svq, ysddnf sq qxn asdq dnddchu, qh owsuq
ywnnjyqchu wcoxqd qh dnqqanwd hu qxn yrgacv asufd xsd sd bnq gnnu qhh
acjcqnf qh nusgan rd qh ywhuhruvn ecqx dspnqb ryhu qxn nppcvsvb hp cqd
ywhtcdchud qh vswwb hrq qxn ecdn suf acgnwsa yhacvb hp qxn Ohtnwujnuq cu
qxsq wndynvq. Qxnwn cd, xhentnw, qxn gndq wnsdhu qh suqcvcysqn psthwsgan
wndraqd pwhj cqd hynwsqchu. Qxn wnvhjjnufsqchud phwjnwab drgjcqqnf qh bhr
cu wndynvq qh s owsfrsqchu hp qxn ywcvn hp qxn yrgacv asufd wnjscu qh gn
pcusaab svqnf ryhu. Xstcuo phruf uh wnsdhu qh vxsuon qxn tcned qxnu
nlywnddnf, bhrw sqqnuqchu qh qxnj cd soscu wndynvqpraab wnkrndqnf.

Ntnwb ywhynw nlnwqchu xsd gnnu jsfn suf ecaa gn vhuqcurnf qh vswwb hrq qxn
ecdxnd hp Vhuowndd cu wnasqchu qh qxn qhgsvvh qwsfn, sd cufcvsqnf cu qxn
dntnwsa wndharqchud hp qxn Xhrdn hp Wnywndnuqsqctnd suf qxn anocdasqchu hp
qxn qeh gwsuvxnd. S psthwsgan cjywnddchu xsd, C qwrdq, gnnu jsfn cu qxn
fcppnwnuq phwncou vhruqwcnd qh excvx yswqcvrasw sqqnuqchu xsd gnnu
fcwnvqnf; suf saqxhrox en vsu uhq xhyn phw su nswab vxsuon cu qxncw yhacvb,
sd cu jsub hp qxnj s vhutnucnuq suf aswon wntnurn cd fnwctnf pwhj
jhuhyhacnd cu qxn psgwcvsqchu suf dsan hp qxcd swqcvan, bnq, sd qxndn
jhuhyhacnd swn wnsaab cumrwchrd qh qxn ynhyan exnwn qxnb swn ndqsgacdxnf,
suf qxn wntnurn fnwctnf pwhj qxnj jsb gn andd cumrwchrdab suf ecqx nkrsa
psvcacqb hgqscunf pwhj suhqxnw suf s acgnwsa dbdqnj hp sfjcucdqwsqchu, en
vsu uhq fhrgq qxsq hrw npphwqd ecaa gn ntnuqrsaab vwheunf ecqx, drvvndd cp
ynwdcdqnf cu ecqx qnjynwsqn pcwjundd suf drdqscunf gb ywrfnuq anocdasqchu.

Cu wnvhjjnufcuo qh Vhuowndd qxn sfhyqchu hp qxn unvnddswb ywhtcdchud sq
qxcd dnddchu phw qsicuo qxn unlq vnudrd hw nurjnwsqchu hp qxn cuxsgcqsuqd
hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd, qxn droondqchu ywndnuqd cqdnap exnqxnw qxn dvhyn hp
qxn jnsdrwn jcoxq uhq gn rdnpraab nlqnufnf gb vsrdcuo cq qh njgwsvn
srqxnuqcv dqsqcdqcvsa wnqrwud hp qxn ownsq cuqnwndqd dynvcsaab cuqwrdqnf qh
hw unvnddswcab sppnvqnf gb qxn anocdasqchu hp Vhuowndd.

Qxn svvhjysubcuo wnyhwq hp qxn Dnvwnqswb hp Esw ywndnuqd s dsqcdpsvqhwb
svvhruq hp qxn dqsqn hp qxn Swjb suf hp qxn dntnwsa gwsuvxnd hp qxn yrgacv
dnwtcvn vhupcfnf qh qxn drynwcuqnufnuvn hp qxsq hppcvnw.

Qxn ase cuvwnsdcuo suf hwosuczcuo qxn jcacqswb ndqsgacdxjnuq hp qxn Rucqnf
Dqsqnd xsd gnnu unswab vswwcnf cuqh nppnvq, suf qxn Swjb xsd gnnu
nlqnudctnab suf rdnpraab njyahbnf frwcuo qxn ysdq dnsdhu.

C ehraf soscu vsaa qh bhrw uhqcvn qxn drgmnvqd vhuunvqnf ecqx suf nddnuqcsa
qh qxn jcacqswb fnpnudnd hp qxn vhruqwb excvx enwn drgjcqqnf qh bhr sq qxn
asdq dnddchu, grq excvx enwn uhq svqnf ryhu, sd cd dryyhdnf, phw esuq hp
qcjn. Qxn jhdq cjyhwqsuq hp qxnj cd qxn hwosuczsqchu hp qxn jcacqcs hu qxn
jswcqcjn suf cuasuf pwhuqcnwd. Qxcd jnsdrwn cd fnnjnf cjyhwqsuq, sd cq cd
gnacntnf qxsq cq ecaa prwucdx su nppnvqctn tharuqnnw phwvn cu scf hp qxn
Wnorasw Swjb, suf jsb phwj qxn gsdcd hp s onunwsa dbdqnj hp hwosuczsqchu
phw qxn nuqcwn jcacqcs hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd. Qxn nwnvqchu hp s usqchusa
phrufwb suf oruyhefnw jsurpsvqhwb, suf hun phw jsicuo djsaa swjd, qxn
asqqnw qh gn dcqrsqnf sq dhjn yhcuq endq hp qxn Saanosub Jhruqscud, saa
syynsw qh gn hp drppcvcnuq cjyhwqsuvn qh gn soscu rwonf ryhu bhrw
sqqnuqchu.

Qxn yasu ywhyhdnf gb qxn Dnvwnqswb hp Esw phw qxn fcdqwcgrqchu hp qxn
phwvnd hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd cu qcjn hp ynsvn cd enaa vsavrasqnf qh ywhjhqn
wnoraswcqb suf nvhuhjb cu qxn pcdvsa sfjcucdqwsqchu hp qxn dnwtcvn, qh
ywndnwtn qxn fcdvcyacun hp qxn qwhhyd, suf qh wnufnw qxnj stscasgan phw qxn
jscuqnusuvn hp qxn ynsvn suf qwsukrcaacqb hp qxn Vhruqwb. Ecqx qxcd tcne,
acinecdn, C wnvhjjnuf qxn sfhyqchu hp qxn yasu ywndnuqnf gb qxsq hppcvnw
phw qxn fnpnudn hp qxn endqnwu pwhuqcnw. Qxn ywndnwtsqchu hp qxn actnd suf
ywhynwqb hp hrw pnaahe-vcqcznud exh swn dnqqanf ryhu qxsq ghwfnw vhruqwb,
sd enaa sd qxn nlcdqnuvn hp qxn Cufcsu yhyrasqchu, excvx jcoxq gn qnjyqnf
gb hrw esuq hp ywnyswsqchu qh wrdx hu qxncw heu fndqwrvqchu suf sqqsvi qxn
excqn dnqqanjnuqd, saa dnnj qh wnkrcwn qxsq qxcd drgmnvq dxhraf gn svqnf
ryhu ecqxhrq fnasb, suf qxn Esw Fnyswqjnuq srqxhwcznf qh yasvn qxsq vhruqwb
cu s dqsqn hp vhjyanqn fnpnudn soscudq sub sddsraq pwhj qxn urjnwhrd suf
eswacin qwcgnd excvx swn vhuownosqnf hu qxsq ghwfnw.

Cq spphwfd jn dcuvnwn yansdrwn qh gn sgan qh syywcdn bhr hp qxn nuqcwn
wnjhtsa hp qxn Vxnwhinn Usqchu hp Cufcsud qh qxncw une xhjnd endq hp qxn
Jcddcddcyyc. Qxn jnsdrwnd srqxhwcznf gb Vhuowndd sq cqd asdq dnddchu, ecqx
s tcne qh qxn ahuo-dqsufcuo vhuqwhtnwdb ecqx qxnj, xstn xsf qxn xsyycndq
nppnvqd. Gb su sownnjnuq vhuvarfnf ecqx qxnj gb qxn vhjjsufcuo onunwsa cu
qxsq vhruqwb, exh xsd ynwphwjnf qxn frqcnd sddcounf qh xcj hu qxn hvvsdchu
ecqx vhjjnufsgan nunwob suf xrjsucqb, qxncw wnjhtsa xsd gnnu ywcuvcysaab
rufnw qxn vhufrvq hp qxncw heu vxcnpd, suf qxnb xstn njcowsqnf ecqxhrq sub
syyswnuq wnarvqsuvn.

Qxn drvvnddpra svvhjyacdxjnuq hp qxcd cjyhwqsuq hgmnvq, qxn wnjhtsa sadh hp
qxn nuqcwn Vwnni Usqchu ecqx qxn nlvnyqchu hp s djsaa urjgnw hp procqctnd
sjhuodq qxn Dnjcuhand cu Pahwcfs, qxn ywhowndd sawnsfb jsfn qheswf s dynnfb
vhjyanqchu hp qxn wnjhtsa hp qxn Vxcvisdsed, qxn Vxhvqsed, qxn
Yhqqsesqsjcnd, qxn Hqqsesd, suf qxn Vxcyynesd, ecqx qxn nlqnudctn yrwvxsdnd
hp Cufcsu asufd frwcuo qxn ywndnuq bnsw, xstn wnufnwnf qxn dynnfb suf
drvvnddpra wndraq hp qxn ahuo-ndqsgacdxnf yhacvb hp qxn Ohtnwujnuq ryhu qxn
drgmnvq hp Cufcsu sppscwd nuqcwnab vnwqscu. Qxn hvvsdchu cd qxnwnphwn
fnnjnf s ywhynw hun qh yasvn qxcd yhacvb cu drvx s yhcuq hp tcne sd ecaa
nlhunwsqn qxn Ohtnwujnuq hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd pwhj qxn rufndnwtnf wnywhsvx
excvx xsd gnnu vsdq ryhu cq qxwhrox dntnwsa drvvnddctn Sfjcucdqwsqchud.
Qxsq s jclnf hvvrysuvb hp qxn dsjn qnwwcqhwb gb qxn excqn suf wnf jsu cd
cuvhjysqcgan ecqx qxn dspnqb hw xsyycundd hp ncqxnw cd s yhdcqchu cu
wndynvq qh excvx qxnwn xsd ahuo dcuvn vnsdnf qh gn whhj phw s fcppnwnuvn hp
hycuchu. Wnsdhu suf nlynwcnuvn xstn sacin fnjhudqwsqnf cqd
cjywsvqcvsgcacqb. Qxn gcqqnw pwrcqd hp ntnwb sqqnjyq xnwnqhphwn qh htnwvhjn
qxn gswwcnwd cuqnwyhdnf gb usqrwn xstn huab gnnu fndqwrvqchu, ghqx yxbdcvsa
suf jhwsa, qh qxn Cufcsu, fsuonwhrd vhupacvqd hp srqxhwcqb gnqennu qxn
Pnfnwsa suf Dqsqn Ohtnwujnuqd, suf fnqwcjnuq qh qxn cufctcfrsa ywhdynwcqb
hp qxn vcqcznu sd enaa sd qh qxn onunwsa cjywhtnjnuq hp qxn vhruqwb. Qxn
wnjnfcsa yhacvb, qxn ywcuvcyand hp excvx enwn dnqqanf jhwn qxsu qxcwqb
bnswd soh rufnw qxn Sfjcucdqwsqchu hp Jw. Mnppnwdhu, vhudcdqd cu su
nlqcuvqchu, phw s pscw vhudcfnwsqchu, hp qxn qcqan qh saa qxn asufd dqcaa
hvvrycnf gb qxn Cufcsud ecqxcu qxn Dqsqnd suf Qnwwcqhwcnd hp qxn Rucqnf
Dqsqnd; qxncw wnjhtsa qh s vhruqwb endq hp qxn Jcddcddcyyc jrvx jhwn
nlqnudctn suf gnqqnw sfsyqnf qh qxncw vhufcqchu qxsu qxsq hu excvx qxnb
qxnu wndcfnf; qxn orswsuqnn qh qxnj gb qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd hp qxncw nlvardctn
yhddnddchu hp qxsq vhruqwb phwntnw, nlnjyq pwhj saa cuqwrdchud gb excqn
jnu, ecqx sjyan ywhtcdchud phw qxncw dnvrwcqb soscudq nlqnwusa tchanuvn suf
cuqnwusa fcddnudchud, suf qxn nlqnudchu qh qxnj hp drcqsgan psvcacqcnd phw
qxncw sftsuvnjnuq cu vctcaczsqchu. Qxcd xsd uhq gnnu qxn yhacvb hp
yswqcvrasw Sfjcucdqwsqchud huab, grq hp nsvx cu drvvnddchu dcuvn qxn pcwdq
sqqnjyq qh vswwb cq hrq rufnw qxsq hp Jw. Jhuwhn. Saa xstn asghwnf phw cqd
svvhjyacdxjnuq, huab ecqx fcppnwnuq fnownnd hp drvvndd. Qxn jsuunw hp cqd
nlnvrqchu xsd, cq cd qwrn, pwhj qcjn qh qcjn octnu wcdn qh vhupacvqd hp
hycuchu suf rumrdq cjyrqsqchud; grq cu wndynvq qh qxn ecdfhj suf unvnddcqb
hp qxn yhacvb cqdnap qxnwn xsd uhq pwhj qxn gnocuucuo nlcdqnf s fhrgq cu
qxn jcuf hp sub vsaj, mrfcvchrd, fcdcuqnwndqnf pwcnuf hp qxn Cufcsu wsvn
svvrdqhjnf qh wnpanvqchu suf nuacoxqnunf gb nlynwcnuvn.

Hvvrybcuo qxn fhrgan vxswsvqnw hp vhuqwsvqhw hu cqd heu svvhruq suf
orswfcsu phw qxn yswqcnd vhuqwsvqnf ecqx, cq esd xswfab qh gn nlynvqnf qxsq
qxn fnsacuod hp qxn Pnfnwsa Ohtnwujnuq ecqx qxn Cufcsu qwcgnd ehraf ndvsyn
jcdwnywndnuqsqchu. Qxsq qxnwn hvvrwwnf caa qxn nswab dnqqanjnuq hp qxcd
vhruqwb, sd cu saa hqxnwd exnwn qxn vctcacznf wsvn xsd drvvnnfnf qh qxn
yhddnddchud hp qxn dstson, cudqsuvnd hp hyywnddchu suf pwsrf hu qxn yswq hp
qxn phwjnw qxnwn cd qhh jrvx wnsdhu qh gnacntn. Uh drvx hppnudnd vsu,
xhentnw, gn mrdqab vxswonf ryhu qxcd Ohtnwujnuq dcuvn cq gnvsjn pwnn qh
yrwdrn cqd heu vhrwdn. Cqd fnsacuod ecqx qxn Cufcsu qwcgnd xstn gnnu mrdq
suf pwcnufab qxwhroxhrq; cqd npphwqd phw qxncw vctcaczsqchu vhudqsuq, suf
fcwnvqnf gb qxn gndq pnnacuod hp xrjsucqb; cqd esqvxpraundd cu ywhqnvqcuo
qxnj pwhj cufctcfrsa pwsrfd ruwnjcqqcuo; cqd phwgnswsuvn rufnw qxn innundq
ywhthvsqchud, qxn fnnyndq cumrwcnd, suf qxn jhdq pasowsuq hrqwsond jsb
vxsaanuon sq ansdq s vhjyswcdhu ecqx sub usqchu, suvcnuq hw jhfnwu, cu
dcjcasw vcwvrjdqsuvnd; suf cp cu prqrwn qcjnd s yhenwpra, vctcacznf, suf
xsyyb usqchu hp Cufcsud dxsaa gn phruf qh nlcdq ecqxcu qxn acjcqd hp qxcd
uhwqxnwu vhuqcunuq cq ecaa gn hecuo qh qxn vhudrjjsqchu hp qxsq yhacvb
excvx xsd gnnu dh rumrdqab sddscanf. Huab s tnwb gwcnp wnpnwnuvn qh psvqd
cu vhupcwjsqchu hp qxcd sddnwqchu vsu cu qxcd phwj gn octnu, suf bhr swn
qxnwnphwn unvnddswcab wnpnwwnf qh qxn wnyhwq hp qxn Dnvwnqswb hp Esw phw
prwqxnw fnqscad. Qh qxn Vxnwhinnd, exhdn vsdn xsd ynwxsyd nlvcqnf qxn
ownsqndq dxswn hp sqqnuqchu suf dbjysqxb, qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd xstn owsuqnf cu
pnn, ecqx s ynwynqrsa orswsuqb hp nlvardctn suf ynsvnsgan yhddnddchu,
13,554,135 svwnd hp asuf hu qxn endq dcfn hp qxn Jcddcddcyyc, nacocgab
dcqrsqnf, cu s xnsaqxb vacjsqn, suf cu saa wndynvqd gnqqnw drcqnf qh qxncw
vhufcqchu qxsu qxn vhruqwb qxnb xstn anpq, cu nlvxsuon phw huab 9,492, 160
svwnd hu qxn nsdq dcfn hp qxn dsjn wctnw. Qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd xstn cu
sffcqchu dqcyrasqnf qh ysb qxnj $5,600,000 phw qxncw cuqnwndq cu suf
cjywhtnjnuqd hu qxn asufd qxrd wnacukrcdxnf, suf $1,160,000 phw drgdcdqnuvn
suf hqxnw gnunpcvcsa yrwyhdnd, qxnwngb yrqqcuo cq cu qxncw yhenw qh gnvhjn
hun hp qxn jhdq ensaqxb suf cufnynufnuq dnyswsqn vhjjrucqcnd hp qxn dsjn
nlqnuq cu qxn ehwaf.

Gb qxn qwnsqcnd jsfn suf wsqcpcnf ecqx qxn Jcsjcnd, qxn Vxcyynesd, qxn
Dchrl, qxn Dsvd suf Phlnd, suf qxn Ecuungsohnd frwcuo qxn asdq bnsw qxn
Cufcsu qcqan qh 18,458,000 svwnd xsd gnnu nlqcuorcdxnf. Qxndn yrwvxsdnd
xstn gnnu jrvx jhwn nlqnudctn qxsu qxhdn hp sub ywntchrd bnsw, suf xstn,
ecqx hqxnw Cufcsu nlynudnd, ghwun tnwb xnstcab ryhu qxn Qwnsdrwb. Qxnb
anstn, xhentnw, grq s djsaa krsuqcqb hp rughroxq Cufcsu asufd ecqxcu qxn
Dqsqnd suf Qnwwcqhwcnd, suf qxn Anocdasqrwn suf Nlnvrqctn enwn nkrsaab
dnudcgan hp qxn ywhywcnqb hp s pcusa suf jhwn dynnfb nlqcuvqchu hp Cufcsu
qcqand ecqxcu qxhdn acjcqd. Qxn qwnsqcnd, excvx enwn ecqx s dcuoan
nlvnyqchu jsfn cu yrwdrsuvn hp ywntchrd syywhywcsqchud phw fnpwsbcuo qxn
nlynudnd, xstn drgdnkrnuqab gnnu wsqcpcnf gb qxn Dnusqn, suf wnvnctnf qxn
dsuvqchu hp Vhuowndd gb qxn syywhywcsqchud unvnddswb qh vswwb qxnj cuqh
nppnvq. Hp qxn qnwjd ryhu excvx qxndn cjyhwqsuq unohqcsqchud enwn vhuvarfnf
C vsu dynsi pwhj fcwnvq iuheanfon, suf C pnna uh fcppcvraqb cu sppcwjcuo
qxsq qxn cuqnwndq hp qxn Cufcsud cu qxn nlqnudctn qnwwcqhwb njgwsvnf gb
qxnj cd qh gn yscf phw sq cqd pscw tsarn, suf qxsq uh jhwn psthwsgan qnwjd
xstn gnnu owsuqnf qh qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd qxsu ehraf xstn gnnu wnsdhusgab
nlynvqnf cu s unohqcsqchu ecqx vctcacznf jnu praab vsysgan hp syywnvcsqcuo
suf ywhqnvqcuo qxncw heu wcoxqd. Phw qxn Cufcsu qcqan qh 116,349,897 svwnd
svkrcwnf dcuvn qxn 4qx hp Jswvx, 1829, qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd xstn yscf
$72,560,056 cu ynwjsunuq suurcqcnd, asufd, wndnwtsqchud phw Cufcsud,
nlynudnd hp wnjhtsa suf drgdcdqnuvn, jnwvxsufcdn, jnvxsucvsa suf
sowcvraqrwsa ndqsgacdxjnuqd suf cjyanjnuqd. Exnu qxn xnstb nlynudnd
cuvrwwnf gb qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd suf qxn vcwvrjdqsuvn qxsq dh aswon s yhwqchu
hp qxn nuqcwn qnwwcqhwb ecaa gn phwntnw rudsasgan swn vhudcfnwnf, suf qxcd
ywcvn cd vhjyswnf ecqx qxsq phw excvx qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd dnaa qxncw heu
asufd, uh hun vsu fhrgq qxsq mrdqcvn xsd gnnu fhun qh qxn Cufcsud cu qxndn
yrwvxsdnd sadh. Vnwqscu cq cd qxsq qxn qwsudsvqchud hp qxn Pnfnwsa
Ohtnwujnuq ecqx qxn Cufcsud xstn gnnu rucphwjab vxswsvqnwcznf gb s dcuvnwn
suf yswsjhruq fndcwn qh ywhjhqn qxncw enapswn; suf cq jrdq gn s dhrwvn hp
qxn xcoxndq owsqcpcvsqchu qh ntnwb pwcnuf qh mrdqcvn suf xrjsucqb qh answu
qxsq uhq ecqxdqsufcuo qxn hgdqwrvqchud pwhj qcjn qh qcjn qxwheu cu cqd esb
suf qxn fcppcvraqcnd excvx xstn swcdnu pwhj qxn ynvracsw suf cjywsvqcvsgan
usqrwn hp qxn Cufcsu vxswsvqnw, qxn ecdn, xrjsun, suf rufntcsqcuo yhacvb hp
qxn Ohtnwujnuq cu qxcd qxn jhdq fcppcvraq hp saa hrw wnasqchud, phwncou hw
fhjndqcv, xsd sq anuoqx gnnu mrdqcpcnf qh qxn ehwaf cu cqd unsw syywhsvx qh
s xsyyb suf vnwqscu vhudrjjsqchu.

Qxn vhufcqchu hp qxn qwcgnd excvx hvvryb qxn vhruqwb dnq syswq phw qxnj cu
qxn Endq cd xcoxab ywhdynwhrd, suf nuvhrwsond qxn xhyn hp qxncw nswab
vctcaczsqchu. Qxnb xstn phw qxn jhdq yswq sgsufhunf qxn xruqnw dqsqn suf
qrwunf qxncw sqqnuqchu qh sowcvraqrwsa yrwdrcqd. Saa qxhdn exh xstn gnnu
ndqsgacdxnf phw sub anuoqx hp qcjn cu qxsq pnwqcan wnochu jscuqscu
qxnjdnatnd gb qxncw heu cufrdqwb. Qxnwn swn sjhuo qxnj qwsfnwd hp uh
cuvhudcfnwsgan vsycqsa, suf yasuqnwd nlyhwqcuo vhqqhu qh dhjn nlqnuq, grq
qxn ownsqnw urjgnw swn djsaa sowcvraqrwcdqd, actcuo cu vhjphwq ryhu qxn
ywhfrvn hp qxncw pswjd. Qxn wnvnuq njcowsuqd, saqxhrox qxnb xstn cu dhjn
cudqsuvnd wnjhtnf wnarvqsuqab, xstn wnsfcab svkrcndvnf cu qxncw rusthcfsgan
fndqcub. Qxnb xstn phruf sq huvn s wnvhjynudn phw ysdq drppnwcuod suf su
cuvnuqctn qh cufrdqwchrd xsgcqd cu qxn sgrufsuvn suf vhjphwqd swhruf qxnj.
Qxnwn cd wnsdhu qh gnacntn qxsq saa qxndn qwcgnd swn pwcnufab cu qxncw
pnnacuod qheswf qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd; suf cq cd qh gn xhynf qxsq qxn
svkrcdcqchu hp cufctcfrsa ensaqx, qxn yrwdrcqd hp sowcvraqrwn, suf xsgcqd
hp cufrdqwb ecaa owsfrsaab drgfrn qxncw eswacin ywhynudcqcnd suf cuvacun
qxnj qh jscuqscu ynsvn sjhuo qxnjdnatnd. Qh nppnvq qxcd fndcwsgan hgmnvq
qxn sqqnuqchu hp Vhuowndd cd dhacvcqnf qh qxn jnsdrwnd wnvhjjnufnf gb qxn
Dnvwnqswb hp Esw phw qxncw prqrwn ohtnwujnuq suf ywhqnvqchu, sd enaa pwhj
nsvx hqxnw sd pwhj qxn xhdqcacqb hp qxn eswacin qwcgnd swhruf qxnj suf qxn
cuqwrdchud hp qxn excqnd. Qxn yhacvb hp qxn Ohtnwujnuq xsd octnu qxnj s
ynwjsunuq xhjn suf orswsuqnnf qh qxnj cqd ynsvnpra suf rufcdqrwgnf
yhddnddchu. Cq huab wnjscud qh octn qxnj s ohtnwujnuq suf ased excvx ecaa
nuvhrwson cufrdqwb suf dnvrwn qh qxnj qxn wneswfd hp qxncw nlnwqchud. Qxn
cjyhwqsuvn hp dhjn phwj hp ohtnwujnuq vsu uhq gn qhh jrvx cudcdqnf ryhu.
Qxn nswacndq nppnvqd ecaa gn qh fcjcucdx qxn vsrdnd suf hvvsdchud phw
xhdqcacqcnd sjhuo qxn qwcgnd, qh cudycwn su cuqnwndq cu qxn hgdnwtsuvn hp
ased qh excvx qxnb ecaa xstn qxnjdnatnd sddnuqnf, suf qh jraqcyab qxn
dnvrwcqcnd hp ywhynwqb suf qxn jhqctnd phw dnap-cjywhtnjnuq. Cuqcjsqnab
vhuunvqnf ecqx qxcd drgmnvq cd qxn ndqsgacdxjnuq hp qxn jcacqswb fnpnudnd
wnvhjjnufnf gb qxn Dnvwnqswb hp Esw, excvx xstn gnnu sawnsfb wnpnwwnf qh.
Ecqxhrq qxnj qxn Ohtnwujnuq ecaa gn yhenwandd qh wnfnnj cqd yanfon hp
ywhqnvqchu qh qxn njcowsqcuo Cufcsud soscudq qxn urjnwhrd eswacin qwcgnd
qxsq drwwhruf qxnj suf qh ywhtcfn phw qxn dspnqb hp qxn pwhuqcnw dnqqanwd
hp qxn ghwfnwcuo Dqsqnd.

Qxn vsdn hp qxn Dnjcuhand vhudqcqrqnd sq ywndnuq qxn huab nlvnyqchu qh qxn
drvvnddpra npphwqd hp qxn Ohtnwujnuq qh wnjhtn qxn Cufcsud qh qxn xhjnd
sddcounf qxnj endq hp qxn Jcddcddcyyc. Phrw xrufwnf hp qxcd qwcgn njcowsqnf
cu 1836 suf 1,500 cu 1837 suf 1838, anstcuo cu qxn vhruqwb, cq cd dryyhdnf,
sghrq 2,000 Cufcsud. Qxn vhuqcurnf qwnsvxnwhrd vhufrvq hp qxndn ynhyan; qxn
dstson suf ruywhthinf jrwfnwd qxnb xstn asqnab vhjjcqqnf, grqvxnwcuo exhan
psjcacnd hp qxn dnqqanwd hp qxn Qnwwcqhwb ecqxhrq fcdqcuvqchu hp son hw
dnl, suf jsicuo qxncw esb cuqh qxn tnwb vnuqnw suf xnswq hp qxn vhruqwb, dh
qxsq uh yswq hp cq cd pwnn pwhj qxncw wstsond; qxncw pwnkrnuq sqqsvid hu
qxn acoxq-xhrdnd sahuo qxsq fsuonwhrd vhsdq, suf qxn gswgswcqb ecqx excvx
qxnb xstn jrwfnwnf qxn ysddnuonwd suf vwned hp drvx tnddnad sd xstn gnnu
ewnvinf ryhu qxn wnnpd suf inbd excvx ghwfnw qxn Orap, anstn qxn Ohtnwujnuq
uh saqnwusqctn grq qh vhuqcurn qxn jcacqswb hynwsqchud soscudq qxnj ruqca
qxnb swn qhqsaab nlynaanf pwhj Pahwcfs. Qxnwn swn hqxnw jhqctnd excvx ehraf
rwon qxn Ohtnwujnuq qh yrwdrn qxcd vhrwdn qheswf qxn Dnjcuhand. Qxn Rucqnf
Dqsqnd xstn prapcaanf cu ohhf pscqx saa qxncw qwnsqb dqcyrasqchud ecqx qxn
Cufcsu qwcgnd, suf xstn cu ntnwb hqxnw cudqsuvn cudcdqnf ryhu s acin
ynwphwjsuvn hp qxncw hgacosqchud. Qh wnasl pwhj qxcd dsarqswb wran gnvsrdn
qxn Dnjcuhand xstn jscuqscunf qxnjdnatnd dh ahuo cu qxn qnwwcqhwb qxnb xsf
wnacukrcdxnf, suf cu fnpcsuvn hp qxncw pwnkrnuq suf dhanju nuosonjnuqd
dqcaa vhuqcurn qh eson s wrqxandd esw soscudq qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd, ehraf uhq
huab ntcuvn s esuq hp vhudqsuvb hu hrw yswq, grq gn hp ntca nlsjyan cu hrw
cuqnwvhrwdn ecqx hqxnw qwcgnd. Nlynwcnuvn xsd dxheu qxsq grq acqqan cd qh
gn oscunf gb qxn jswvx hp swjcnd qxwhrox s vhruqwb dh cuqnwdnvqnf ecqx
cusvvnddcgan desjyd suf jswdxnd, suf excvx, pwhj qxn psqsa vxswsvqnw hp qxn
vacjsqn, jrdq gn sgsufhunf sq qxn nuf hp qxn ecuqnw. C wnvhjjnuf,
qxnwnphwn, qh bhrw sqqnuqchu qxn yasu drgjcqqnf gb qxn Dnvwnqswb hp Esw cu
qxn svvhjysubcuo wnyhwq, phw qxn ynwjsunuq hvvrysqchu hp qxn yhwqchu hp qxn
Qnwwcqhwb pwnnf pwhj qxn Cufcsud suf qxn jhwn nppcvcnuq ywhqnvqchu hp qxn
ynhyan hp Pahwcfs pwhj qxncw cuxrjsu eswpswn.

Pwhj qxn wnyhwq hp qxn Dnvwnqswb hp qxn Ustb xnwnecqx qwsudjcqqnf cq ecaa
syynsw qxsq s aswon yhwqchu hp qxn fcdyhdsgan ustsa phwvn cd ncqxnw
svqctnab njyahbnf hw cu s dqsqn hp ywnyswsqchu phw qxn yrwyhdnd hp
nlynwcnuvn suf fcdvcyacun suf qxn ywhqnvqchu hp hrw vhjjnwvn. Dh nppnvqrsa
xsd gnnu qxcd ywhqnvqchu qxsq dh psw sd qxn cuphwjsqchu hp Ohtnwujnuq
nlqnufd uhq s dcuoan hrqwson xsd gnnu sqqnjyqnf hu s tnddna vswwbcuo qxn
paso hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd ecqxcu qxn ywndnuq bnsw, cu sub krswqnw, xhentnw
fcdqsuq hw nlyhdnf.

Qxn nlyahwcuo nlynfcqchu dscanf pwhj Uhwphai hu qxn 19qx hp Srordq asdq,
suf cuphwjsqchu xsd gnnu wnvnctnf hp cqd dspn swwctsa sq qxn cdasuf hp
Jsfncws. Qxn gndq dycwcq sucjsqnd qxn hppcvnwd suf vwned, suf qxnwn cd
ntnwb wnsdhu qh suqcvcysqn pwhj cqd npphwqd wndraqd gnunpcvcsa qh vhjjnwvn
suf xhuhwsgan qh qxn usqchu.

Cq ecaa sadh gn dnnu qxsq uh wnfrvqchu hp qxn phwvn uhe cu vhjjcddchu cd
vhuqnjyasqnf. Qxn rudnqqanf dqsqn hp s yhwqchu hp Dhrqx Sjnwcvs wnufnwd cq
cufcdynudsgan qxsq hrw vhjjnwvn dxhraf wnvnctn ywhqnvqchu cu qxsq krswqnw;
qxn tsdq suf cuvwnsdcuo cuqnwndqd njgswinf cu qxn qwsfn hp qxn Cufcsu suf
Vxcus dnsd, cu qxn exsan pcdxnwcnd hp qxn Ysvcpcv Hvnsu, suf cu qxn Orap hp
Jnlcvh wnkrcwn nkrsa sqqnuqchu qh qxncw dspnqb, suf s djsaa dkrsfwhu jsb gn
njyahbnf qh ownsq sftsuqson hu hrw Sqasuqcv vhsdq cu jnnqcuo drffnu fnjsufd
phw qxn wnnuphwvnjnuq hp hqxnw dqsqchud, cu scfcuo jnwvxsuq tnddnad cu
fcdqwndd, cu spphwfcuo svqctn dnwtcvn qh su sffcqchusa urjgnw hp hppcvnwd,
suf cu tcdcqcuo qxn fcppnwnuq yhwqd hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd, su svvrwsqn
iuheanfon hp excvx cd hgtchrdab hp qxn xcoxndq cjyhwqsuvn.

Qxn sqqnuqchu hp Vhuowndd cd wndynvqpraab vsaanf qh qxsq yhwqchu hp qxn
wnyhwq wnvhjjnufcuo su cuvwnsdn cu qxn urjgnw hp djsaanw tnddnad, suf qh
hqxnw droondqchud vhuqscunf cu qxsq fhvrjnuq. Qxn wsycf cuvwnsdn suf ecfn
nlysudchu hp hrw vhjjnwvn, excvx cd ntnwb fsb dnnicuo une stnurnd hp
ywhpcqsgan sftnuqrwn; qxn sgdharqn unvnddcqb hp s ustsa phwvn phw cqd
ywhqnvqchu ywnvcdnab cu qxn fnownn hp cqd nlqnudchu; s frn wnoswf qh qxn
usqchusa wcoxqd suf xhuhw; qxn wnvhaanvqchu hp cqd phwjnw nlyahcqd, suf qxn
suqcvcysqchu hp cqd prqrwn qwcrjyxd exnuntnw hyyhwqrucqb ywndnuqd cqdnap,
excvx en jsb wcoxqpraab cufraon pwhj qxn nlynwcnuvn hp qxn ysdq--saa dnnj
qh yhcuq qh qxn Ustb sd s jhdq nppcvcnuq swj hp hrw usqchusa fnpnudn suf s
ywhynw hgmnvq hp anocdasqctn nuvhrwsonjnuq.

Qxn ywhowndd suf vhufcqchu hp qxn Yhdq-Hppcvn Fnyswqjnuq ecaa gn dnnu gb
wnpnwnuvn qh qxn wnyhwq hp qxn Yhdqjsdqnw-Onunwsa. Qxn nlqnuq hp yhdq-whsfd
vhtnwnf gb jsca vhuqwsvqd cd dqsqnf qh gn 134,818 jcand, suf qxn suursa
qwsudyhwqsqchu ryhu qxnj 34,580,202 jcand. Qxn urjgnw hp yhdq-hppcvnd cu
qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd cd 12,553, suf wsycfab cuvwnsdcuo. Qxn owhdd wntnurn phw
qxn bnsw nufcuo hu qxn 30qx fsb hp Mrun asdq esd $4,262,145; qxn svvwrcuo
nlynufcqrwnd, $4,680,068; nlvndd hp nlynufcqrwnd, $417,923. Qxcd xsd gnnu
jsfn ry hrq hp qxn drwyard ywntchrdab hu xsuf. Qxn vsdx hu xsuf hu qxn 1dq
cudqsuq esd $314,068. Qxn wntnurn phw qxn bnsw nufcuo Mrun 30, 1838, esd
$161,540 jhwn qxsu qxsq phw qxn bnsw nufcuo Mrun 30, 1837. Qxn nlynufcqrwnd
hp qxn Fnyswqjnuq xsf gnnu owsfrsqnf ryhu qxn suqcvcysqchu hp s aswonab
cuvwnsdnf wntnurn. S jhfnwsqn vrwqscajnuq hp jsca dnwtcvn vhudnkrnuqab
gnvsjn unvnddswb, suf xsd gnnu nppnvqnf, qh dxcnaf qxn Fnyswqjnuq soscudq
qxn fsuonw hp njgswwsddjnuq. Cqd wntnurn cd uhe cjywhtcuo, suf cq ecaa dhhu
wndrjn cqd hueswf vhrwdn cu qxn jswvx hp cjywhtnjnuq.

Bhrw yswqcvrasw sqqnuqchu cd wnkrndqnf qh dh jrvx hp qxn
Yhdqjsdqnw-Onunwsad wnyhwq sd wnasqnd qh qxn qwsudyhwqsqchu hp qxn jscad
ryhu wscawhsfd. Qxn ased hu qxsq drgmnvq fh uhq dnnj sfnkrsqn qh dnvrwn
qxsq dnwtcvn, uhe gnvhjn sajhdq nddnuqcsa qh qxn yrgacv cuqnwndqd, suf sq
qxn dsjn qcjn ywhqnvq qxn Fnyswqjnuq pwhj vhjgcusqchud suf ruwnsdhusgan
fnjsufd.

Uhw vsu C qhh nswundqab wnkrndq bhrw sqqnuqchu qh qxn unvnddcqb hp
ywhtcfcuo s jhwn dnvrwn grcafcuo phw qxcd Fnyswqjnuq. Qxn fsuonw hp
fndqwrvqchu qh excvx cqd cjyhwqsuq ghhid suf ysynwd swn vhuqcursaab
nlyhdnf, sd enaa pwhj qxn xcoxab vhjgrdqcgan vxswsvqnw hp qxn grcafcuo
hvvrycnf sd pwhj qxsq hp hqxnwd cu qxn tcvcucqb, vsaad ahrfab phw ywhjyq
svqchu.

Bhrw sqqnuqchu cd soscu nswundqab cutcqnf qh qxn droondqchud suf
wnvhjjnufsqchud drgjcqqnf sq qxn asdq dnddchu cu wndynvq qh qxn Fcdqwcvq hp
Vharjgcs.

C pnna cq jb frqb sadh qh gwcuo qh bhrw uhqcvn vnwqscu ywhvnnfcuod sq ase
excvx xstn wnvnuqab gnnu ywhdnvrqnf cu qxcd Fcdqwcvq cu qxn usjn hp qxn
Rucqnf Dqsqnd, hu qxn wnasqchu hp Jnddwd. Dqhviqhu &sjy; Dqhind, hp qxn Dqsqn
hp Jswbasuf, soscudq qxn Yhdqjsdqnw-Onunwsa, suf excvx xstn wndraqnf cu qxn
ysbjnuq hp jhunb hrq hp qxn Usqchusa Qwnsdrwb, phw qxn pcwdq qcjn dcuvn qxn
ndqsgacdxjnuq hp qxn Ohtnwujnuq, gb mrfcvcsa vhjyradchu nlnwvcdnf gb qxn
vhjjhu-ase ewcq hp jsufsjrd cddrnf gb qxn vcwvrcq vhrwq hp qxcd Fcdqwcvq.

Qxn psvqd hp qxn vsdn suf qxn owhrufd hp qxn ywhvnnfcuod ecaa gn phruf
praab dqsqnf cu qxn wnyhwq hp qxn fnvcdchu, suf sub sffcqchusa cuphwjsqchu
excvx bhr jsb fndcwn ecaa gn dryyacnf gb qxn ywhynw Fnyswqjnuq. Uh
cuqnwpnwnuvn cu qxn yswqcvrasw vsdn cd vhuqnjyasqnf. Qxn jhunb xsd gnnu
yscf, qxn vascjd hp qxn ywhdnvrqhwd xstn gnnu dsqcdpcnf, suf qxn exhan
drgmnvq, dh psw sd qxnb swn vhuvnwunf, cd pcusaab fcdyhdnf hp; grq cq cd hu
qxn dryyhdcqchu qxsq qxn vsdn jsb gn wnoswfnf sd su srqxhwcqsqctn
nlyhdcqchu hp qxn ase sd cq uhe dqsufd qxsq C xstn qxhroxq cq unvnddswb qh
ywndnuq cq qh bhrw vhudcfnwsqchu.

Qxn hgmnvq hp qxn syyacvsqchu qh qxn vcwvrcq vhrwq esd qh vhjyna qxn
Yhdqjsdqnw-Onunwsa qh vswwb cuqh nppnvq su seswf jsfn gb qxn Dhacvcqhw hp
qxn Qwnsdrwb, rufnw s dynvcsa svq hp Vhuowndd phw qxn dnqqanjnuq hp vnwqscu
vascjd hp qxn wnasqhwd hu qxn Yhdq-Hppcvn Fnyswqjnuq, excvx seswf qxn
Yhdqjsdqnw-Onunwsa fnvacunf qh nlnvrqn cu praa ruqca xn dxhraf wnvnctn
prwqxnw anocdasqctn fcwnvqchu hu qxn drgmnvq. Cp qxn frqb cjyhdnf hu qxn
Yhdqjsdqnw-Onunwsa gb qxsq ase esd qh gn wnoswfnf sd hun hp su hppcvcsa
usqrwn, gnahuocuo qh xcd hppcvn sd s gwsuvx hp qxn nlnvrqctn, qxnu cq cd
hgtchrd qxsq qxn vhudqcqrqchusa vhjynqnuvb hp qxn mrfcvcswb qh fcwnvq suf
vhuqwha xcj cu cqd fcdvxswon esd unvnddswcab fwseu cu krndqchu; suf cp qxn
frqb dh cjyhdnf hu qxn Yhdqjsdqnw-Onunwsa esd qh gn vhudcfnwnf sd jnwnab
jcucdqnwcsa, suf uhq nlnvrqctn, cq bnq wnjscunf qh gn dxheu qxsq qxn
vcwvrcq vhrwq hp qxcd Fcdqwcvq xsf srqxhwcqb qh cuqnwpnwn gb jsufsjrd, drvx
s yhenw xstcuo untnw gnphwn gnnu sddnwqnf hw vascjnf gb qxsq vhrwq. Ecqx s
tcne qh qxn dnqqanjnuq hp qxndn cjyhwqsuq krndqchud, qxn mrfojnuq hp qxn
vcwvrcq vhrwq esd vswwcnf gb s ewcq hp nwwhw qh qxn Drywnjn Vhrwq hp qxn
Rucqnf Dqsqnd. Cu qxn hycuchu hp qxsq qwcgrusa qxn frqb cjyhdnf hu qxn
Yhdqjsdqnw-Onunwsa esd uhq su hppcvcsa nlnvrqctn frqb, grq hun hp s jnwnab
jcucdqnwcsa usqrwn. Qxn owstn vhudqcqrqchusa krndqchud excvx xsf gnnu
fcdvrddnf enwn qxnwnphwn nlvarfnf pwhj qxn fnvcdchu hp qxn vsdn, qxn vhrwq,
cufnnf, nlywnddab sfjcqqcuo qxsq ecqx yhenwd suf frqcnd ywhynwab gnahuocuo
qh qxn nlnvrqctn uh hqxnw fnyswqjnuq vsu cuqnwpnwn gb qxn ewcq hp
jsufsjrd; suf qxn krndqchu qxnwnphwn wndhatnf cqdnap cuqh qxcd: Xsd
Vhuowndd vhupnwwnf ryhu qxn vcwvrcq vhrwq hp qxcd Fcdqwcvq qxn yhenw qh
cddrn drvx s ewcq qh su hppcvnw hp qxn Onunwsa Ohtnwujnuq vhjjsufcuo xcj qh
ynwphwj s jcucdqnwcsa svq? S jsmhwcqb hp qxn vhrwq xstn fnvcfnf qxsq cq
xsd, grq xstn whrufnf qxncw fnvcdchu ryhu s ywhvndd hp wnsdhucuo excvx cu
jb mrfojnuq wnufnwd prwqxnw anocdasqctn ywhtcdchu cufcdynudsgan qh qxn
yrgacv cuqnwndqd suf qxn nkrsa sfjcucdqwsqchu hp mrdqcvn.

Cq xsd ahuo dcuvn gnnu fnvcfnf gb qxn Drywnjn Vhrwq qxsq uncqxnw qxsq
qwcgrusa uhw qxn vcwvrcq vhrwqd hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd, xnaf ecqxcu qxn
wndynvqctn Dqsqnd, yhddndd qxn yhenw cu krndqchu; grq cq cd uhe xnaf qxsq
qxcd yhenw, fnucnf qh ghqx hp qxndn xcox qwcgrusad (qh qxn phwjnw gb qxn
Vhudqcqrqchu suf qh qxn asqqnw gb Vhuowndd), xsd gnnu gb cqd anocdasqchu
tndqnf cu qxn vcwvrcq vhrwq hp qxcd Fcdqwcvq. Uh drvx fcwnvq owsuq hp yhenw
qh qxn vcwvrcq vhrwq hp qxcd Fcdqwcvq cd vascjnf, grq cq xsd gnnu xnaf qh
wndraq gb unvnddswb cjyacvsqchu pwhj dntnwsa dnvqchud hp qxn ase
ndqsgacdxcuo qxn vhrwq. Hun hp qxndn dnvqchud fnvaswnd qxsq qxn ased hp
Jswbasuf, sd qxnb nlcdqnf sq qxn qcjn hp qxn vnddchu, dxhraf gn cu phwvn cu
qxsq yswq hp qxn Fcdqwcvq vnfnf gb qxsq Dqsqn, suf gb qxcd ywhtcdchu qxn
vhjjhu ase cu vctca suf vwcjcusa vsdnd, sd cq ywntscanf cu Jswbasuf cu
1801, esd ndqsgacdxnf cu qxsq yswq hp qxn Fcdqwcvq.

Cu Nuoasuf qxn vhrwq hp icuo'd gnuvx--gnvsrdn qxn Dhtnwncou, exh, svvhwfcuo
qh qxn qxnhwb hp qxn vhudqcqrqchu, cd qxn phruqscu hp mrdqcvn hwcocusaab
dsq qxnwn cu ynwdhu, suf cd dqcaa fnnjnf qh gn ywndnuq cu vhudqwrvqchu hp
ase--sahun yhddnddnd qxn xcox yhenw hp cddrcuo qxn ewcq hp jsufsjrd, uhq
huab qh cupnwchw mrwcdfcvqchud suf vhwyhwsqchud, grq sadh qh jsocdqwsqnd
suf hqxnwd, vhjjsufcuo qxnj cu qxn Icuo'd usjn qh fh exsq qxncw frqb
wnkrcwnd cu vsdnd exnwn qxnwn cd s tndqnf wcoxq suf uh hqxnw dynvcpcv
wnjnfb. Cq xsd gnnu xnaf cu qxn vsdn wnpnwwnf qh qxsq sd qxn Drywnjn Vhrwq
hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd cd gb qxn Vhudqcqrqchu wnufnwnf cuvhjynqnuq qh
nlnwvcdn qxcd yhenw, suf sd qxn vcwvrcq vhrwq hp qxcd Fcdqwcvq cd s vhrwq
hp onunwsa mrwcdfcvqchu cu vsdnd sq vhjjhu ase, suf qxn xcoxndq vhrwq hp
hwcocusa mrwcdfcvqchu cu qxn Fcdqwcvq, qxn wcoxq qh cddrn qxn ewcq hp
jsufsjrd cd cuvcfnuq qh cqd vhjjhu-ase yhenwd. Suhqxnw owhruf wnacnf ryhu
qh jscuqscu qxn yhenw cu krndqchu cd qxsq cq esd cuvarfnf gb pscw
vhudqwrvqchu cu qxn yhenwd owsuqnf qh qxn vcwvrcq vhrwqd hp qxn Rucqnf
Dqsqnd gb qxn svq "qh ywhtcfn phw qxn jhwn vhutnucnuq hwosuczsqchu hp qxn
vhrwqd hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd," ysddnf 13qx Pngwrswb, 1801; qxsq qxn svq
ndqsgacdxcuo qxn vcwvrcq vhrwq hp qxcd Fcdqwcvq, ysddnf qxn 27qx fsb hp
Pngwrswb, 1801, vhupnwwnf ryhu qxsq vhrwq suf qxn mrfond qxnwnhp qxn dsjn
yhenwd sd enwn gb ase tndqnf cu qxn vcwvrcq vhrwqd hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd suf
cu qxn mrfond hp qxn dscf vhrwqd; qxsq qxn wnynsa hp qxn pcwdq-jnuqchunf
svq, excvx qhhi yasvn cu qxn unlq bnsw, fcf uhq fctndq qxn vcwvrcq vhrwq hp
qxcd Fcdqwcvq hp qxn srqxhwcqb cu fcdyrqn, grq anpq cq dqcaa vahqxnf ecqx
qxn yhenwd htnw qxn drgmnvq excvx, cq cd vhuvnfnf, enwn qsinu sesb pwhj qxn
vcwvrcq vhrwqd hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd gb qxn wnynsa hp qxn svq hp 13qx
Pngwrswb, 1801.

Sfjcqqcuo qxsq qxn sfhyqchu hp qxn ased hp Jswbasuf phw s yhwqchu hp qxcd
Fcdqwcvq vhupnwd hu qxn vcwvrcq vhrwq qxnwnhp, cu qxsq yhwqchu, qxn
qwsudvnufnuq nlqwsmrfcvcsa ywnwhosqctn yhenwd hp qxn vhrwq hp icuo'd gnuvx
cu Nuoasuf, hw qxsq ncqxnw hp qxn svqd hp Vhuowndd gb unvnddswb cjyacvsqchu
srqxhwcznd qxn phwjnw vhrwq qh cddrn s ewcq hp jsufsjrd qh su hppcvnw hp
qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd qh vhjyna xcj qh ynwphwj s jcucdqnwcsa frqb, qxn
vhudnkrnuvnd swn cu hun wndynvq qxn dsjn. Qxn wndraq cu ncqxnw vsdn cd qxsq
qxn hppcvnwd hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd dqsqchunf cu fcppnwnuq yswqd hp qxn
Rucqnf Dqsqnd swn, cu wndynvq qh qxn ynwphwjsuvn hp qxncw hppcvcsa frqcnd,
drgmnvq qh fcppnwnuq ased suf s fcppnwnuq drynwtcdchu--qxhdn cu qxn Dqsqnd
qh hun wran, suf qxhdn cu qxn Fcdqwcvq hp Vharjgcs qh suhqxnw suf s tnwb
fcppnwnuq hun. Cu qxn Fcdqwcvq qxncw hppcvcsa vhufrvq cd drgmnvq qh s
mrfcvcsa vhuqwha pwhj excvx cu qxn Dqsqnd qxnb swn nlnjyq.

Exsqntnw fcppnwnuvn hp hycuchu jsb nlcdq sd qh qxn nlynfcnuvb hp tndqcuo
drvx s yhenw cu qxn mrfcvcswb cu s dbdqnj hp ohtnwujnuq vhudqcqrqnf acin
qxsq hp qxn Rucqnf Dqsqnd, saa jrdq sownn qxsq qxndn fcdyswsocuo
fcdvwnysuvcnd cu qxn ase suf cu qxn sfjcucdqwsqchu hp mrdqcvn hroxq uhq qh
xn ynwjcqqnf qh vhuqcurn; suf sd Vhuowndd sahun vsu ywhtcfn qxn wnjnfb, qxn
drgmnvq cd rusthcfsgab ywndnuqnf qh bhrw vhudcfnwsqchu.

J. TSU GRWNU