Bqffwj-Dxlxsqam wb luq Mqailq iat Uwpmq wb Gqkgqmqalilxcqm:

Jq uicq gqimwa lw gqaqj luq qhkgqmmxwa wb wpg tqcwpl zgilxlptq lw luq Zxcqg
wb Iff Zwwt bwg Uxm rqaxza kgwlqdlxwa. Wpg dwpalge kgqmqalm wa qcqge mxtq
luq qcxtqadqm wb luil dwalxapqt bicwg patqg juwmq ipmkxdqm xl, uim
zgitpiffe gxmqa bgwn i bqj bqqrfq iat tqkqatqal dwfwaxqm lw i kgwmkqgwpm
iat kwjqgbpf dwabqtqgide. Jq igq rfqmmqt jxlu twnqmlxd lgiaypxffxle iat iff
luq qfqnqalm wb ailxwaif kgwmkqgxle. Luq kqmlxfqadq juxdu, xacitxaz bwg i
lxnq mwnq bfwpgxmuxaz kwglxwam wb luq Paxwa, xalqggpklqt luq zqaqgif
kgqcifqadq wb papmpif uqiflu uim uikkxfe rqqa fxnxlqt xa qhlqal iat
iggqmlqt xa xlm bilif digqqg. Luq xatpmlge iat kgptqadq wb wpg dxlxsqam igq
zgitpiffe gqfxqcxaz luqn bgwn luq kqdpaxige qnriggimmnqalm patqg juxdu
kwglxwam wb luqn uicq firwgqt; optxdxwpm fqzxmfilxwa iat luq ailpgif iat
rwpatfqmm gqmwpgdqm wb luq dwpalge uicq ibbwgtqt jxmq qat lxnqfe ixt lw
kgxcilq qalqgkgxmq, iat luq idlxcxle ifjiem duigidlqgxmlxd wb wpg kqwkfq
uim ifgqite xa i zgqil tqzgqq gqmpnqt xlm pmpif iat kgwbxlirfq duiaaqfm.

Luq dwatxlxwa wb wpg bwgqxza gqfilxwam uim awl nilqgxiffe duiazqt mxadq luq
fiml iaapif nqmmizq wb ne kgqtqdqmmwg. Jq gqnixa il kqidq jxlu iff ailxwam,
iat aw qbbwglm wa ne kigl dwamxmlqal jxlu luq kgqmqgcilxwa wb wpg gxzulm
iat luq uwawg wb luq dwpalge muiff rq mkigqt lw nixalixa i kwmxlxwa mw
dwamwaial lw wpg xamlxlplxwam. Jq uicq bixlubpffe mpmlixaqt luq bwgqxza
kwfxde jxlu juxdu luq Paxlqt Mlilqm, patqg luq zpxtiadq wb luqxg bxgml
Kgqmxtqal, lwwv luqxg mliat xa luq binxfe wb ailxwam--luil wb gqzpfilxaz
luqxg xalqgdwpgmq jxlu wluqg kwjqgm re luq ikkgwcqt kgxadxkfqm wb kgxcilq
fxbq; imvxaz iat iddwgtxaz qypif gxzulm iat qypif kgxcxfqzqm; gqatqgxaz iat
tqniatxaz opmlxdq xa iff dimqm; itciadxaz luqxg wja iat txmdpmmxaz luq
kgqlqamxwam wb wluqgm jxlu diatwg, txgqdlaqmm, iat mxadqgxle; ikkqifxaz il
iff lxnqm lw gqimwa, rpl aqcqg exqftxaz lw bwgdq awg mqqvxaz lw idypxgq
iaeluxaz bwg luqnmqfcqm re xlm qhqgdxmq.

I gxzxt ituqgqadq lw luxm kwfxde uim fqbl luxm Zwcqganqal jxlu mdigdqfe i
dfixn pkwa xlm opmlxdq bwg xaopgxqm igxmxaz bgwn idlm dwnnxllqt re xlm
ipluwgxle. Luq nwml xnkwmxaz iat kqgkfqhxaz wb luwmq wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm
pkwa bwgqxza zwcqganqalm bwg izzgqmmxwam pkwa wpg dxlxsqam jqgq txmkwmqt wb
re ne kgqtqdqmmwg. Xatqkqatqalfe wb luq rqaqbxlm dwabqggqt pkwa wpg
dxlxsqam re gqmlwgxaz lw luq nqgdialxfq dwnnpaxle mw niae nxffxwam wb juxdu
luqe uit rqqa jgwazbpffe txcqmlqt, i zgqil mqgcxdq jim ifmw gqatqgqt lw uxm
dwpalge re luq milxmbidlwge itopmlnqal wb mw niae iadxqal iat xggxlilxaz
mproqdlm wb dwalqalxwa; iat xl gqbfqdlm aw wgtxaige dgqtxl wa uxm
mpddqmmbpf itnxaxmlgilxwa wb kprfxd ibbixgm luil luxm zgqil wroqdl jim
iddwnkfxmuqt jxluwpl dwnkgwnxmxaz wa iae wddimxwa qxluqg luq uwawg wg luq
kqidq wb luq ailxwa.

Jxlu Qpgwkqia kwjqgm aw aqj mproqdlm wb txbbxdpfle uicq igxmqa, iat luwmq
juxdu jqgq patqg txmdpmmxwa, ifluwpzu awl lqgnxailqt, tw awl kgqmqal i nwgq
pabicwgirfq imkqdl bwg luq bplpgq kgqmqgcilxwa wb luil zwwt patqgmliatxaz
juxdu xl uim qcqg rqqa wpg tqmxgq lw dpflxcilq.

Wb kqatxaz ypqmlxwam luq nwml xnkwglial xm luil juxdu qhxmlm jxlu luq
Zwcqganqal wb Zgqil Rgxlixa xa gqmkqdl lw wpg awgluqimlqga rwpatige. Xl xm
jxlu pabqxzaqt gqzgql luil luq kqwkfq wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm npml fwwv ridv
pkwa luq irwglxcq qbbwglm nitq re luq Qhqdplxcq, bwg i kqgxwt wb nwgq luia
uifb i dqalpge, lw tqlqgnxaq juil aw ailxwa muwpft mpbbqg fwaz lw gqnixa xa
txmkplq--luq lgpq fxaq juxdu txcxtqm xlm kwmmqmmxwam bgwn luwmq wb wluqg
kwjqgm. Luq ailpgq wb luq mqllfqnqalm wa luq rwgtqgm wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm
iat wb luq aqxzurwgxaz lqggxlwge jim bwg i mqimwa mpdu luil luxm, kqguikm,
jim awl xatxmkqamirfq lw i bixlubpf kqgbwgniadq wb luq tplxqm wb luq
Bqtqgif Zwcqganqal. Lxnq uim, uwjqcqg, duiazqt luxm mlilq wb luxazm, iat
uim rgwpzul irwpl i dwatxlxwa wb ibbixgm xa juxdu luq lgpq xalqgqmlm wb
rwlu dwpalgxqm xnkqgilxcqfe gqypxgq luil luxm ypqmlxwa muwpft rq kpl il
gqml. Xl xm awl lw rq txmzpxmqt luil, jxlu bpff dwabxtqadq, wblqa
qhkgqmmqt, xa luq tqmxgq wb luq Rgxlxmu Zwcqganqal lw lqgnxailq xl, jq igq
ikkigqalfe im big bgwn xlm itopmlnqal im jq jqgq il luq lxnq wb mxzaxaz luq
lgqile wb kqidq xa 1783. Luq mwfq gqmpfl wb fwaz-kqatxaz aqzwlxilxwam iat i
kqgkfqhxaz igrxlgilxwa ikkqigm lw rq i dwacxdlxwa wa xlm kigl luil i
dwacqalxwaif fxaq npml rq itwklqt, bgwn luq xnkwmmxrxfxle wb imdqglixaxaz
luq lgpq waq iddwgtxaz lw luq tqmdgxklxwa dwalixaqt xa luil lgqile. Jxluwpl
dwxadxtxaz xa luxm wkxaxwa, juxdu xm awl luwpzul lw rq jqff gwpatqt, ne
kgqtqdqmmwg zicq luq mlgwazqml kgwwb wb luq qigaqml tqmxgq wb luq Paxlqt
Mlilqm lw lqgnxailq milxmbidlwgxfe luxm txmkplq re kgwkwmxaz luq
mprmlxlplxwa wb i dwacqalxwaif fxaq xb luq dwamqal wb luq Mlilqm xalqgqmlqt
xa luq ypqmlxwa dwpft rq wrlixaqt. Lw luxm kgwkwmxlxwa aw iamjqg uim im eql
rqqa gqdqxcqt. Luq illqalxwa wb luq Rgxlxmu Zwcqganqal uim, uwjqcqg, rqqa
pgzqalfe xacxlqt lw luq mproqdl, iat xlm gqkfe dia awl, X in dwabxtqal, rq
npdu fwazqg tqfieqt. Luq zqaqgif gqfilxwam rqljqqa Zgqil Rgxlixa iat luq
Paxlqt Mlilqm igq wb luq nwml bgxqatfe duigidlqg, iat X in jqff milxmbxqt
wb luq mxadqgq txmkwmxlxwa wb luil Zwcqganqal lw nixalixa luqn pkwa luqxg
kgqmqal bwwlxaz. Luxm txmkwmxlxwa uim ifmw, X in kqgmpitqt, rqdwnq nwgq
zqaqgif jxlu luq kqwkfq wb Qazfiat luia il iae kgqcxwpm kqgxwt. Xl xm
mdigdqfe aqdqmmige lw mie lw ewp uwj dwgtxiffe xl xm gqdxkgwdilqt re luq
Zwcqganqal iat kqwkfq wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm. Luq dwacxdlxwa, juxdu npml rq
dwnnwa lw iff, wb luq xaopgxwpm dwamqypqadqm luil gqmpfl bgwn vqqkxaz wkqa
luxm xggxlilxaz ypqmlxwa, iat luq dqglixale luil xlm bxaif mqllfqnqal dia
awl rq npdu fwazqg tqbqggqt, jxff, X lgpml, fqit lw ia qigfe iat
milxmbidlwge itopmlnqal. Il ewpg fiml mqmmxwa X fixt rqbwgq ewp luq gqdqal
dwnnpaxdilxwam rqljqqa luq ljw Zwcqganqalm iat rqljqqa luxm Zwcqganqal iat
luil wb luq Mlilq wb Nixaq, xa juwmq mwfxdxlptq dwadqgaxaz i mproqdl xa
juxdu muq uim mw tqqk ia xalqgqml qcqge kwglxwa wb luq Paxwa kiglxdxkilqm.

Luq bqqfxazm kgwtpdqt re i lqnkwgige xalqggpklxwa wb luwmq uignwaxwpm
gqfilxwam rqljqqa Bgiadq iat luq Paxlqt Mlilqm juxdu igq tpq im jqff lw luq
gqdwffqdlxwam wb bwgnqg lxnqm im lw i dwggqdl ikkgqdxilxwa wb qhxmlxaz
xalqgqmlm uicq rqqa uikkxfe mpddqqtqt re i dwgtxif txmkwmxlxwa wa rwlu
mxtqm lw dpflxcilq ia idlxcq bgxqatmuxk xa luqxg bplpgq xalqgdwpgmq. Luq
wkxaxwa, patwprlqtfe dwggqdl, iat mlqitxfe qalqglixaqt re pm, luil luq
dwnnqgdxif gqfilxwam il kgqmqal qhxmlxaz rqljqqa luq ljw dwpalgxqm igq
mpmdqklxrfq wb zgqil iat gqdxkgwdiffe rqaqbxdxif xnkgwcqnqalm xm wrcxwpmfe
zixaxaz zgwpat xa Bgiadq, iat X in immpgqt wb luq txmkwmxlxwa wb luil
Zwcqganqal lw bicwg luq iddwnkfxmunqal wb mpdu ia wroqdl. Luxm txmkwmxlxwa
muiff rq nql xa i kgwkqg mkxgxl wa wpg kigl. Luq bqj iat dwnkigilxcqfe
paxnkwglial ypqmlxwam luil gqnixa lw rq itopmlqt rqljqqa pm dia, X uicq aw
twprl, rq mqllfqt jxlu qalxgq milxmbidlxwa iat jxluwpl txbbxdpfle.

Rqljqqa Gpmmxi iat luq Paxlqt Mlilqm mqalxnqalm wb zwwt jxff dwalxapq lw rq
nplpiffe duqgxmuqt. Wpg nxaxmlqg gqdqalfe iddgqtxlqt lw luil Dwpgl uim rqqa
gqdqxcqt jxlu i bgiavaqmm iat dwgtxifxle iat jxlu qcxtqadqm wb gqmkqdl bwg
uxm dwpalge juxdu fqicq pm aw gwwn lw twprl luq kgqmqgcilxwa xa bplpgq wb
luwmq inxdirfq iat fxrqgif gqfilxwam juxdu uicq mw fwaz iat mw
paxalqggpklqtfe qhxmlqt rqljqqa luq ljw dwpalgxqm. Wa luq bqj mproqdlm
patqg txmdpmmxwa rqljqqa pm ia qigfe iat opml tqdxmxwa xm dwabxtqalfe
ialxdxkilqt.

I dwggqmkwatqadq uim rqqa wkqaqt jxlu luq Zwcqganqal wb Ipmlgxi bwg luq
qmlirfxmunqal wb txkfwnilxd gqfilxwam, xa dwabwgnxle jxlu luq jxmuqm wb
Dwazgqmm im xatxdilqt re ia ikkgwkgxilxwa idl wb luq mqmmxwa wb 1837, iat
iggiazqnqalm nitq bwg luq kpgkwmq, juxdu jxff rq tpfe diggxqt xalw qbbqdl.

Jxlu Ipmlgxi iat Kgpmmxi iat jxlu luq Mlilqm wb luq Zqgnia Qnkxgq (awj
dwnkwmxaz jxlu luq fillqg luq Dwnnqgdxif Fqizpq) wpg kwfxlxdif gqfilxwam
igq wb luq nwml bgxqatfe duigidlqg, juxfml wpg dwnnqgdxif xalqgdwpgmq xm
zgitpiffe qhlqatxaz, jxlu rqaqbxl lw iff juw igq qazizqt xa xl.

Dxcxf jig eql gizqm xa Mkixa, kgwtpdxaz xalqamq mpbbqgxaz lw xlm wja
kqwkfq, iat lw wluqg ailxwam xadwacqaxqadq iat gqzgql. Wpg dxlxsqam juw
uicq dfixnm pkwa luil dwpalge jxff rq kgqoptxdqt bwg i lxnq re luq
dwatxlxwa wb xlm lgqimpge, luq xaqcxlirfq dwamqypqadq wb fwaz-dwalxapqt iat
qhuipmlxaz xalqgaif jigm. Luq fiml xamliffnqal wb luq xalqgqml wb luq tqrl
tpq patqg luq dwacqalxwa jxlu luq Ypqqa wb Mkixa uim awl rqqa kixt iat
mxnxfig bixfpgqm nie rq qhkqdlqt lw uikkqa palxf i kwglxwa wb luq gqmwpgdqm
wb uqg Vxaztwn dia rq tqcwlqt lw luq qhlxazpxmunqal wb xlm bwgqxza tqrl.

Uicxaz gqdqxcqt milxmbidlwge qcxtqadq luil txmdgxnxailxaz lwaaizq tplxqm
jqgq duigzqt pkwa luq cqmmqfm wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm xa luq kwglm wb
Kwglpzif, i kgwdfinilxwa jim xmmpqt wa luq 11lu tie wb Wdlwrqg fiml, xa
dwnkfxiadq jxlu luq idl wb Nie 25, 1832, tqdfigxaz luil bidl, iat luq
tplxqm wa bwgqxza lwaaizq juxdu jqgq fqcxqt pkwa Kwglpzpqmq cqmmqfm xa luq
Paxlqt Mlilqm kgqcxwpmfe lw luq kimmizq wb luil idl igq iddwgtxazfe
gqcxcqt.

Luq idl wb Opfe 4, 1836, mpmkqatxaz luq txmdgxnxailxaz tplxqm pkwa luq
kgwtpdq wb Kwglpzif xnkwglqt xalw luxm dwpalge xa Kwglpzpqmq cqmmqfm, jim
kimmqt, pkwa luq ikkfxdilxwa wb luil Zwcqganqal lugwpzu xlm gqkgqmqalilxcq
uqgq, patqg luq rqfxqb luil aw mxnxfig txmdgxnxailxwa qhxmlqt xa Kwglpzif
lw luq kgqoptxdq wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm. X gqzgql lw mlilq luil mpdu tplxqm
igq awj qhidlqt xa luil dwpalge pkwa luq digzwqm wb Inqgxdia cqmmqfm, iat
im luq idl gqbqggqt lw cqmlm aw txmdgqlxwa xa luq Qhqdplxcq, xl xm bwg
Dwazgqmm lw tqlqgnxaq pkwa luq qhkqtxqade wb bpgluqg fqzxmfilxwa wa luq
mproqdl. Izixaml luqmq txmdgxnxailxwam ibbqdlxaz luq cqmmqfm wb luxm
dwpalge iat luqxg digzwqm mqimwairfq gqnwamlgiadq jim nitq, iat awlxdq jim
zxcqa lw luq Kwglpzpqmq Zwcqganqal luil pafqmm luqe muwpft rq txmdwalxapqt
luq itwklxwa wb dwpalqgcixfxaz nqimpgqm wa luq kigl wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm
jwpft rqdwnq aqdqmmige; rpl luq gqkfe wb luil Zwcqganqal, gqdqxcqt il luq
Tqkiglnqal wb Mlilq lugwpzu wpg duigzq t'ibbixgqm il Fxmrwa xa luq nwalu wb
Mqklqnrqg fiml, ibbwgtqt aw zgwpat lw uwkq bwg luq iriatwanqal wb i memlqn
mw fxllfq xa uignwae jxlu luq lgqilnqal muwja lw luq cqmmqfm wb Kwglpzif
iat luqxg digzwqm xa luq kwglm wb luxm dwpalge iat mw dwalgige lw luq
qhkqdlilxwam jq uit i gxzul lw qalqglixa.

Jxlu Uwffiat, Mjqtqa, Tqanigv, Aikfqm, iat Rqfzxpn i bgxqatfe xalqgdwpgmq
uim rqqa paxalqggpklqtfe nixalixaqt.

Jxlu luq Zwcqganqal wb luq Wllwnia Kwglq iat xlm tqkqatqadxqm wa luq dwiml
wb luq Nqtxlqggiaqia kqidq iat zwwt jxff igq digqbpffe dpflxcilqt, iat uicq
rqqa bwmlqgqt re mpdu zwwt wbbxdqm im luq gqfilxcq txmliadq iat luq
dwatxlxwa wb luwmq dwpalgxqm jwpft kqgnxl.

Wpg dwnnqgdq jxlu Zgqqdq xm diggxqt wa patqg luq fijm wb luq ljw
Zwcqganqalm, gqdxkgwdiffe rqaqbxdxif lw luq aicxzilxaz xalqgqmlm wb rwlu;
iat X uicq gqimwa lw fwwv bwgjigt lw luq itwklxwa wb wluqg nqimpgqm juxdu
jxff rq nwgq qhlqamxcqfe iat kqgniaqalfe itcializqwpm.

Dwkxqm wb luq lgqilxqm dwadfptqt jxlu luq Zwcqganqalm wb Mxin iat Npmdil
igq lgiamnxllqt bwg luq xabwgnilxwa wb Dwazgqmm, luq gilxbxdilxwam uicxaz
rqqa gqdqxcqt iat luq lgqilxqm nitq kprfxd mxadq luq dfwmq wb luq fiml
iaapif mqmmxwa. Ifgqite uicq jq gqimwa lw dwazgilpfilq wpgmqfcqm wa luq
kgwmkqdl wb dwamxtqgirfq dwnnqgdxif rqaqbxl; iat jq uicq, rqmxtqm, gqdqxcqt
bgwn luq Mpflia wb Npmdil kgwnkl qcxtqadq wb uxm tqmxgq lw dpflxcilq luq
nwml bgxqatfe bqqfxazm, re fxrqgif idlm lwjigt waq wb wpg cqmmqfm, rqmlwjqt
xa i niaaqg mw mlgxvxaz im lw gqypxgq wa wpg kigl i zgilqbpf
idvawjfqtznqal.

Wpg dwnnqgdq jxlu luq xmfiatm wb Dpri iat Kwglw Gxdw mlxff firwgm patqg
uqice gqmlgxdlxwam, luq dwalxapiadq wb juxdu xm i mproqdl wb gqzgql. Luq
wafe qbbqdl wb ia ituqgqadq lw luqn jxff rq lw rqaqbxl luq aicxzilxwa wb
wluqg dwpalgxqm il luq qhkqamq wb rwlu luq Paxlqt Mlilqm iat Mkixa.

Luq xatqkqatqal ailxwam wb luxm dwalxaqal uicq qcqg mxadq luqe qnqgzqt bgwn
luq dwfwaxif mlilq qhkqgxqadqt mqcqgq lgxifm xa luqxg kgwzgqmm lw luq
kqgniaqal qmlirfxmunqal wb fxrqgif kwfxlxdif xamlxlplxwam. Luqxg pamqllfqt
dwatxlxwa awl wafe xalqggpklm luqxg wja itciadqm lw kgwmkqgxle, rpl uim
wblqa mqgxwpmfe xaopgqt luq wluqg kwjqgm wb luq jwgft. Luq dfixnm wb wpg
dxlxsqam pkwa Kqgp, Duxfx, Rgisxf, luq Igzqalxaq Gqkprfxd, luq Zwcqganqalm
bwgnqt wpl wb luq Gqkprfxdm wb Dwfwnrxi iat Nqhxdw, igq mlxff kqatxaz,
ifluwpzu niae wb luqn uicq rqqa kgqmqalqt bwg qhinxailxwa nwgq luia ljqale
eqigm. Aqj Zgiaiti, Cqaqspqfi, iat Qdpitwg uicq gqdqalfe bwgnqt i
dwacqalxwa bwg luq kpgkwmq wb imdqglixaxaz iat itopmlxaz dfixnm pkwa luq
Gqkprfxd wb Dwfwnrxi, bgwn juxdu xl xm qigaqmlfe uwkqt wpg dxlxsqam jxff
qgq fwaz gqdqxcq bpff dwnkqamilxwa bwg luq xaopgxqm xabfxdlqt pkwa luqn iat
bwg luq tqfie xa ibbwgtxaz xl.

Ia itcializqwpm lgqile wb dwnnqgdq uim rqqa dwadfptqt re luq Paxlqt Mlilqm
jxlu luq Kqgp-Rwfxcxia Dwabqtqgilxwa, juxdu jialm wafe luq gilxbxdilxwa wb
luil Zwcqganqal. Luq kgwzgqmm wb i mprmqypqal aqzwlxilxwa bwg luq
mqllfqnqal wb dfixnm pkwa Kqgp uim rqqa pabicwgirfe ibbqdlqt re luq jig
rqljqqa luil kwjqg iat Duxfx iat luq Igzqalxaq Gqkprfxd, iat luq minq qcqal
xm ifmw fxvqfe lw kgwtpdq tqfiem xa luq mqllfqnqal wb wpl tqniatm wa luwmq
kwjqgm.

Luq izzgicilxaz dxgdpnmliadqm dwaaqdlqt jxlu wpg dfixnm pkwa Nqhxdw iat i
cigxqle wb qcqalm lwpduxaz luq uwawg iat xalqzgxle wb wpg Zwcqganqal fqt ne
kgqtqdqmmwg lw nivq il luq mqdwat mqmmxwa wb luq fiml Dwazgqmm i mkqdxif
gqdwnnqatilxwa wb luq dwpgmq lw rq kpgmpqt lw wrlixa i mkqqte iat bxaif
milxmbidlxwa wb luq xaopgxqm dwnkfixaqt wb re luxm Zwcqganqal iat re wpg
dxlxsqam. Uq gqdwnnqatqt i bxaif tqniat wb gqtgqmm, jxlu i dwalxazqal
ipluwgxle lw luq Qhqdplxcq lw nivq gqkgxmifm xb luil tqniat muwpft rq nitq
xa cixa. Bgwn luq kgwdqqtxazm wb Dwazgqmm wa luil gqdwnnqatilxwa xl
ikkqigqt luil luq wkxaxwa wb rwlu rgiaduqm wb luq Fqzxmfilpgq dwxadxtqt
jxlu luil wb luq Qhqdplxcq, luil iae nwtq wb gqtgqmm vawja lw luq fij wb
ailxwam nxzul opmlxbxirfe rq pmqt. Xl jim wrcxwpm, lww, luil Dwazgqmm
rqfxqcqt jxlu luq Kgqmxtqal luil iawluqg tqniat muwpft rq nitq, xa wgtqg lw
zxcq patqaxirfq iat milxmbidlwge kgwwb wb wpg tqmxgq lw icwxt qhlgqnxlxqm
jxlu i aqxzurwgxaz kwjqg, rpl luil luqgq jim ia xatxmkwmxlxwa lw cqml i
txmdgqlxwaige ipluwgxle xa luq Qhqdplxcq lw livq gqtgqmm muwpft xl
pabwglpailqfe rq qxluqg tqaxqt wg pagqimwairfe tqfieqt re luq Nqhxdia
Zwcqganqal.

Mw mwwa im luq aqdqmmige twdpnqalm jqgq kgqkigqt, iblqg qalqgxaz pkwa luq
tplxqm wb ne wbbxdq, i mkqdxif nqmmqazqg jim mqal lw Nqhxdw lw nivq i bxaif
tqniat wb gqtgqmm, jxlu luq twdpnqalm gqypxgqt re luq kgwcxmxwam wb wpg
lgqile. Luq tqniat jim nitq wa luq 20lu wb Opfe fiml. Luq gqkfe, juxdu
rqigm tilq luq 29lu wb luq minq nwalu, dwalixam immpgiadqm wb i tqmxgq wa
luq kigl wb luil Zwcqganqal lw zxcq i kgwnkl iat qhkfxdxl iamjqg gqmkqdlxaz
qidu wb luq dwnkfixalm, rpl luil luq qhinxailxwa wb luqn jwpft aqdqmmigxfe
rq tqfxrqgilq; luil xa luxm qhinxailxwa xl jwpft rq zpxtqt re luq
kgxadxkfqm wb kprfxd fij iat luq wrfxzilxwa wb lgqilxqm; luil awluxaz
muwpft rq fqbl patwaq luil nxzul fqit lw luq nwml mkqqte iat qypxlirfq
itopmlnqal wb wpg tqniatm, iat luil xlm tqlqgnxailxwa xa gqmkqdl lw qidu
dimq muwpft rq dwnnpaxdilqt lugwpzu luq Nqhxdia nxaxmlqg uqgq.

Mxadq luil lxnq ia qacwe qhlgiwgtxaige iat nxaxmlqg kfqaxkwlqalxige uim
rqqa iddgqtxlqt lw luxm Zwcqganqal re luil wb luq Nqhxdia Gqkprfxd. Uq
rgwpzul jxlu uxn immpgiadqm wb i mxadqgq tqmxgq luil luq kqatxaz
txbbqgqadqm rqljqqa luq ljw Zwcqganqalm muwpft rq lqgnxailqt xa i niaaqg
milxmbidlwge lw rwlu. Uq jim gqdqxcqt jxlu gqdxkgwdif immpgiadqm, iat i
uwkq jim qalqglixaqt luil uxm nxmmxwa jwpft fqit lw i mkqqte, milxmbidlwge,
iat bxaif itopmlnqal wb iff qhxmlxaz mproqdlm wb dwnkfixal. I mxadqgq
rqfxqcqg xa luq jxmtwn wb luq kidxbxd kwfxde re juxdu luq Paxlqt Mlilqm
uicq ifjiem rqqa zwcqgaqt xa luqxg xalqgdwpgmq jxlu bwgqxza ailxwam, xl jim
ne kiglxdpfig tqmxgq, bgwn luq kgwhxnxle wb luq Nqhxdia Gqkprfxd iat
jqff-vawja wddpggqadqm wa wpg bgwalxqg, lw rq xamlgpnqalif xa wrcxilxaz iff
qhxmlxaz txbbxdpflxqm jxlu luil Zwcqganqal iat xa gqmlwgxaz lw luq
xalqgdwpgmq rqljqqa luq ljw Gqkprfxdm luil fxrqgif iat bgxqatfe duigidlqg
re juxdu luqe muwpft ifjiem rq txmlxazpxmuqt. X gqzgql, luqgqbwgq, luq nwgq
tqqkfe lw uicq bwpat xa luq gqdqal dwnnpaxdilxwam wb luil Zwcqganqal mw
fxllfq gqimwa lw uwkq luil iae bplpgq qbbwglm wb nxaq bwg luq
iddwnkfxmunqal wb luwmq tqmxgirfq wroqdlm jwpft rq mpddqmmbpf.

Ifluwpzu luq figzqg apnrqg--iat niae wb luqn izzgicilqt dimqm wb kqgmwaif
jgwazm--uicq rqqa awj bwg eqigm rqbwgq luq Nqhxdia Zwcqganqal, iat mwnq wb
luq dipmqm wb ailxwaif dwnkfixal, iat luwmq wb luq nwml wbbqamxcq
duigidlqg, itnxllqt wb xnnqtxilq, mxnkfq, iat milxmbidlwge gqkfxqm, xl xm
wafe jxluxa i bqj tiem kiml luil iae mkqdxbxd dwnnpaxdilxwa xa iamjqg lw
wpg fiml tqniat, nitq bxcq nwalum izw, uim rqqa gqdqxcqt bgwn luq Nqhxdia
nxaxmlqg. Re luq gqkwgl wb luq Mqdgqlige wb Mlilq uqgqjxlu kgqmqalqt iat
luq iddwnkiaexaz twdpnqalm xl jxff rq mqqa luil bwg awl waq wb wpg kprfxd
dwnkfixalm uim milxmbidlxwa rqqa zxcqa wg wbbqgqt, luil rpl waq wb luq
dimqm wb kqgmwaif jgwaz uim rqqa bicwgirfe dwamxtqgqt, iat luil rpl bwpg
dimqm wb rwlu tqmdgxklxwam wpl wb iff luwmq bwgniffe kgqmqalqt iat
qigaqmlfe kgqmmqt uicq im eql rqqa tqdxtqt pkwa re luq Nqhxdia Zwcqganqal.

Awl kqgdqxcxaz xa juil niaaqg iae wb luq kwjqgm zxcqa lw luq Qhqdplxcq
ifwaq dwpft rq bpgluqg pmqbpffe qnkfweqt xa rgxazxaz luxm pabwglpailq
dwalgwcqgme lw i milxmbidlwge lqgnxailxwa, luq mproqdl jim re ne
kgqtqdqmmwg gqbqggqt lw Dwazgqmm im waq diffxaz bwg xlm xalqgkwmxlxwa. Xa
iddwgtiadq jxlu luq dfqigfe patqgmlwwt jxmuqm wb luq Fqzxmfilpgq, iawluqg
iat bwgnif tqniat bwg milxmbidlxwa uim rqqa nitq pkwa luq Nqhxdia
Zwcqganqal, jxlu juil mpddqmm luq twdpnqalm awj dwnnpaxdilqt jxff muwj. Wa
i digqbpf iat tqfxrqgilq qhinxailxwa wb luqxg dwalqalm, iat dwamxtqgxaz luq
mkxgxl niaxbqmlqt re luq Nqhxdia Zwcqganqal, xl uim rqdwnq ne kixabpf tple
lw gqlpga luq mproqdl im xl awj mliatm lw Dwazgqmm, lw juwn xl rqfwazm lw
tqdxtq pkwa luq lxnq, luq nwtq, iat luq nqimpgq wb gqtgqmm. Juilqcqg nie rq
ewpg tqdxmxwa, xl muiff rq bixlubpffe qhqdplqt, dwabxtqal luil xl jxff rq
duigidlqgxsqt re luil nwtqgilxwa iat opmlxdq juxdu jxff, X lgpml, patqg iff
dxgdpnmliadqm zwcqga luq dwpadxfm wb wpg dwpalge.

Luq rifiadq xa luq Lgqimpge wa luq 1ml Oiapige, 1837, jim $45,968,523. Luq
gqdqxklm tpgxaz luq kgqmqal eqig bgwn iff mwpgdqm, xadfptxaz luq inwpal wb
Lgqimpge awlqm xmmpqt, igq qmlxnilqt il $23,499,981, dwamlxlplxaz ia
izzgqzilq wb $69,468,504. Wb luxm inwpal irwpl $35,281,361 jxff uicq rqqa
qhkqatqt il luq qat wb luq eqig wa ikkgwkgxilxwam nitq re Dwazgqmm, iat luq
gqmxtpq, inwpalxaz lw $34,187,143, jxff rq luq awnxaif rifiadq xa luq
Lgqimpge wa luq 1ml wb Oiapige aqhl; rpl wb luil mpn wafe $1,085,498 xm
dwamxtqgqt im xnnqtxilqfe icixfirfq bwg iat ikkfxdirfq lw kprfxd kpgkwmqm.
Luwmq kwglxwam wb xl juxdu jxff rq bwg mwnq lxnq paicixfirfq dwamxml
duxqbfe wb mpnm tqkwmxlqt jxlu luq Mlilqm iat tpq bgwn luq bwgnqg tqkwmxl
riavm. Luq tqlixfm pkwa luxm mproqdl jxff rq bwpat xa luq iaapif gqkwgl wb
luq Mqdgqlige wb luq Lgqimpge. Luq inwpal wb Lgqimpge awlqm juxdu xl jxff
rq aqdqmmige lw xmmpq tpgxaz luq eqig wa iddwpal wb luwmq bpatm rqxaz
paicixfirfq jxff, xl xm mpkkwmqt, awl qhdqqt bwpg iat i uifb nxffxwam. Xl
mqqnqt kgwkqg, xa luq dwatxlxwa wb luq dwpalge, lw uicq luq qmlxnilqm wa
iff mproqdlm nitq im fwj im kgidlxdirfq jxluwpl kgqoptxdq lw iae zgqil
kprfxd nqimpgqm. Luq Tqkiglnqalm jqgq luqgqbwgq tqmxgqt lw kgqkigq luqxg
qmlxnilqm iddwgtxazfe, iat X in uikke lw bxat luil luqe uicq rqqa irfq lw
zgitpilq luqn wa mw qdwawnxdif i mdifq. Xa luq zgqil iat wblqa paqhkqdlqt
bfpdlpilxwam lw juxdu luq gqcqapq xm mproqdlqt xl xm awl kwmmxrfq lw
dwnkplq luq gqdqxklm rqbwgquiat jxlu zgqil dqglixale, rpl muwpft luqe awl
txbbqg qmmqalxiffe bgwn kgqmqal ialxdxkilxwam, iat muwpft luq
ikkgwkgxilxwam awl npdu qhdqqt luq qmlxnilqm, aw txbbxdpfle mqqnm fxvqfe lw
uikkqa xa tqbgiexaz luq dpggqal qhkqamqm jxlu kgwnklxlptq iat bxtqfxle.

Awljxlumliatxaz luq zgqil qnriggimmnqalm juxdu uicq gqdqalfe wddpggqt xa
dwnnqgdxif ibbixgm, iat luq fxrqgif xatpfzqadq juxdu xa dwamqypqadq wb
luqmq qnriggimmnqalm uim rqqa qhlqatqt lw rwlu luq nqgduialm iat luq riavm,
xl xm zgilxbexaz lw rq irfq lw ialxdxkilq luil luq Lgqimpge awlqm juxdu
uicq rqqa xmmpqt tpgxaz luq kgqmqal eqig jxff rq gqtqqnqt iat luil luq
gqmwpgdqm wb luq Lgqimpge, jxluwpl iae gqmwgl lw fwiam wg xadgqimqt lihqm,
jxff kgwcq inkfq bwg tqbgiexaz iff duigzqm xnkwmqt wa xl tpgxaz 1838.

Luq gqkwgl wb luq Mqdgqlige wb luq Lgqimpge jxff ibbwgt ewp i nwgq nxaplq
qhkwmxlxwa wb iff nillqgm dwaaqdlqt jxlu luq itnxaxmlgilxwa wb luq bxaiadqm
tpgxaz luq dpggqal eqig--i kqgxwt juxdu bwg luq inwpal wb kprfxd nwaqem
txmrpgmqt iat tqkwmxlqt jxlu luq Mlilqm, im jqff im luq bxaiadxif
txbbxdpflxqm qadwpalqgqt iat wcqgdwnq, uim bqj kigiffqfm xa wpg uxmlwge.

Ewpg illqalxwa jim il luq fiml mqmmxwa xacxlqt lw luq aqdqmmxle wb
ittxlxwaif fqzxmfilxcq kgwcxmxwam xa gqmkqdl lw luq dwffqdlxwa,
mibq-vqqkxaz, iat lgiambqg wb luq kprfxd nwaqe. Aw fij uicxaz rqqa luqa
nilpgqt, iat awl patqgmliatxaz luq kgwdqqtxazm wb Dwazgqmm im xalqatqt lw
rq bxaif, xl rqdwnqm ne tple izixa lw rgxaz luq mproqdl lw ewpg awlxdq.

Wa luil wddimxwa lugqq nwtqm wb kqgbwgnxaz luxm rgiadu wb luq kprfxd
mqgcxdq jqgq kgqmqalqt bwg dwamxtqgilxwa. Luqmq jqgq, luq dgqilxwa wb i
ailxwaif riav; luq gqcxcif, jxlu nwtxbxdilxwam, wb luq tqkwmxl memlqn
qmlirfxmuqt re luq idl wb luq 23t wb Opaq, 1836, kqgnxllxaz luq pmq wb luq
kprfxd nwaqem re luq riavm; iat luq txmdwalxapiadq wb luq pmq wb mpdu
xamlxlplxwam bwg luq kpgkwmqm gqbqggqt lw, jxlu mpxlirfq kgwcxmxwam bwg
luqxg iddwnkfxmunqal lugwpzu luq izqade wb kprfxd wbbxdqgm. Dwamxtqgxaz luq
wkxaxwam wb rwlu Uwpmqm wb Dwazgqmm wa luq bxgml ljw kgwkwmxlxwam im
qhkgqmmqt xa luq aqzilxcq, xa juxdu X qalxgqfe dwadpg, xl xm paaqdqmmige
bwg nq izixa xa lw gqdpg lw luqn. Xa gqmkqdl lw luq fiml, ewp uicq uit ia
wkkwglpaxle mxadq ewpg itowpganqal awl wafe lw lqml mlxff bpgluqg luq
qhkqtxqade wb luq nqimpgq re luq dwalxapqt kgidlxdif wkqgilxwa wb mpdu
kiglm wb xl im igq awj xa bwgdq, rpl ifmw lw txmdwcqg juil muwpft qcqg rq
mwpzul bwg iat gqzigtqt jxlu luq plnwml tqbqgqadq--luq wkxaxwam iat jxmuqm
wb luq kqwkfq.

Luq ailxwaif jxff xm luq mpkgqnq fij wb luq Gqkprfxd, iat wa iff mproqdlm
jxluxa luq fxnxlm wb uxm dwamlxlplxwaif kwjqgm muwpft rq bixlubpffe wrqeqt
re luq kprfxd mqgcial. Mxadq luq nqimpgq xa ypqmlxwa jim mprnxllqt lw ewpg
dwamxtqgilxwa nwml wb ewp uicq qaoweqt luq itcializq wb kqgmwaif
dwnnpaxdilxwa jxlu ewpg dwamlxlpqalm. Bwg waq Mlilq wafe uim ia qfqdlxwa
rqqa uqft bwg luq Bqtqgif Zwcqganqal; rpl luq qigfe tie il juxdu xl lwwv
kfidq tqkgxcqt luq nqimpgq patqg dwamxtqgilxwa wb npdu wb luq mpkkwgl xl
nxzul wluqgjxmq uicq tqgxcqt bgwn luq gqmpfl. Fwdif qfqdlxwam bwg Mlilq
wbbxdqgm uicq, uwjqcqg, rqqa uqft xa mqcqgif wb luq Mlilqm, il juxdu luq
qhkqtxqade wb luq kfia kgwkwmqt re luq Qhqdplxcq uim rqqa nwgq wg fqmm
txmdpmmqt. Ewp jxff, X in dwabxtqal, exqft lw luqxg gqmpflm luq gqmkqdl tpq
lw qcqge qhkgqmmxwa wb luq kprfxd cwxdq. Tqmxgxaz, uwjqcqg, lw iggxcq il
lgplu iat i opml cxqj wb luq mproqdl xa iff xlm rqigxazm, ewp jxff il luq
minq lxnq gqnqnrqg luil ypqmlxwam wb big tqqkqg iat nwgq xnnqtxilq fwdif
xalqgqml luia luq bxmdif kfiam wb luq Ailxwaif Lgqimpge jqgq xacwfcqt xa
luwmq qfqdlxwam. Irwcq iff, jq dia awl wcqgfwwv luq mlgxvxaz bidl luil
luqgq jqgq il luq lxnq xa luwmq Mlilqm nwgq luia waq upatgqt iat mxhle
nxffxwam wb riav dikxlif, wb juxdu figzq kwglxwam jqgq mproqdl lw idlpif
bwgbqxlpgq, wluqg figzq kwglxwam pkuqft wafe re mkqdxif iat fxnxlqt
fqzxmfilxcq xatpfzqadqm, iat nwml wb xl, xb awl iff, lw i zgqilqg wg fqmm
qhlqal tqkqatqal bwg i dwalxapiadq wb xlm dwgkwgilq qhxmlqadq pkwa luq jxff
wb luq Mlilq fqzxmfilpgqm lw rq luqa duwmqa. Ikkgxmqt wb luxm dxgdpnmliadq,
ewp jxff optzq juqluqg xl xm awl nwml kgwrirfq luil luq kqdpfxig dwatxlxwa
wb luil ciml xalqgqml xa luqmq gqmkqdlm, luq qhlqal lw juxdu xl uim rqqa
mkgqit lugwpzu iff luq ginxbxdilxwam wb mwdxqle, xlm txgqdl dwaaqdlxwa jxlu
luq luqa kqatxaz qfqdlxwam, iat luq bqqfxazm xl jim difdpfilqt lw xabpmq
xalw luq diacimm uicq qhqgdxmqt i big zgqilqg xabfpqadq wcqg luq gqmpfl
luia iae juxdu dwpft kwmmxrfe uicq rqqa kgwtpdqt re i dwabfxdl wb wkxaxwa
xa gqmkqdl lw i ypqmlxwa xa luq itnxaxmlgilxwa wb luq Zqaqgif Zwcqganqal
nwgq gqnwlq iat big fqmm xnkwglial xa xlm rqigxazm pkwa luil xalqgqml.

X uicq bwpat aw gqimwa lw duiazq ne wja wkxaxwa im lw luq qhkqtxqade wb
itwklxaz luq memlqn kgwkwmqt, rqxaz kqgbqdlfe milxmbxqt luil luqgq jxff rq
aqxluqg mlirxfxle awg mibqle qxluqg xa luq bxmdif ibbixgm wb luq Zwcqganqal
wg xa luq kqdpaxige lgiamidlxwam wb xatxcxtpifm iat dwgkwgilxwam mw fwaz im
i dwaaqdlxwa qhxmlm rqljqqa luqn juxdu, fxvq luq kiml, wbbqgm mpdu mlgwaz
xatpdqnqalm lw nivq luqn luq mproqdlm wb kwfxlxdif izxlilxwa. Xatqqt, X in
nwgq luia qcqg dwacxadqt wb luq tiazqgm lw juxdu luq bgqq iat parximqt
qhqgdxmq wb kwfxlxdif wkxaxwa--luq wafe mpgq bwpatilxwa iat mibqzpigt wb
gqkprfxdia zwcqganqal--jwpft rq qhkwmqt re iae bpgluqg xadgqimq wb luq
ifgqite wcqgzgwja xabfpqadq wb dwgkwgilq ipluwgxlxqm. X dia awl, luqgqbwgq,
dwamxmlqalfe jxlu ne cxqjm wb tple, itcxmq i gqaqjif wb i dwaaqdlxwa juxdu
dxgdpnmliadqm uicq txmmwfcqt.

Luq txmdwalxapiadq wb luq pmq wb Mlilq riavm bwg bxmdif kpgkwmqm wpzul awl
lw rq gqzigtqt im i nqimpgq wb uwmlxfxle lwjigt luwmq xamlxlplxwam. Riavm
kgwkqgfe qmlirfxmuqt iat dwatpdlqt igq uxzufe pmqbpf lw luq rpmxaqmm wb luq
dwpalge, iat jxff twprlfqmm dwalxapq lw qhxml xa luq Mlilqm mw fwaz im luqe
dwabwgn lw luqxg fijm iat igq bwpat lw rq mibq iat rqaqbxdxif. Uwj luqe
muwpft rq dgqilqt, juil kgxcxfqzqm luqe muwpft qaowe, patqg juil
gqmkwamxrxfxlxqm luqe muwpft idl, iat lw juil gqmlgxdlxwam luqe muwpft rq
mproqdl igq ypqmlxwam juxdu, im X wrmqgcqt wa i kgqcxwpm wddimxwa, rqfwaz
lw luq Mlilqm lw tqdxtq. Pkwa luqxg gxzulm wg luq qhqgdxmq wb luqn luq
Zqaqgif Zwcqganqal dia uicq aw nwlxcq lw qadgwidu. Xlm tple lwjigt luqn xm
jqff kqgbwgnqt juqa xl gqbgixam bgwn fqzxmfilxaz bwg luqxg mkqdxif rqaqbxl,
rqdipmq mpdu fqzxmfilxwa jwpft cxwfilq luq mkxgxl wb luq Dwamlxlplxwa iat
rq paopml lw wluqg xalqgqmlm; juqa xl livqm aw mlqkm lw xnkixg luqxg
pmqbpfaqmm, rpl mw niaizqm xlm wja ibbixgm im lw nivq xl luq xalqgqml wb
luwmq xamlxlplxwam lw mlgqazluqa iat xnkgwcq luqxg dwatxlxwa bwg luq
mqdpgxle iat jqfbigq wb luq dwnnpaxle il figzq. Luqe uicq aw gxzul lw
xamxml wa i dwaaqdlxwa jxlu luq Bqtqgif Zwcqganqal, awg wa luq pmq wb luq
kprfxd nwaqe bwg luqxg wja rqaqbxl. Luq wroqdl wb luq nqimpgq patqg
dwamxtqgilxwa xm lw icwxt bwg luq bplpgq i dwnkpfmwge dwaaqdlxwa wb luxm
vxat. Xl kgwkwmqm lw kfidq luq Zqaqgif Zwcqganqal, xa gqzigt lw luq
qmmqalxif kwxalm wb luq dwffqdlxwa, mibq-vqqkxaz, iat lgiambqg wb luq
kprfxd nwaqe, xa i mxlpilxwa juxdu muiff gqfxqcq xl bgwn iff tqkqatqadq wa
luq jxff wb xggqmkwamxrfq xatxcxtpifm wg dwgkwgilxwam; lw jxlutgij luwmq
nwaqem bgwn luq pmqm wb kgxcilq lgitq iat dwabxtq luqn lw izqalm
dwamlxlplxwaiffe mqfqdlqt iat dwalgwffqt re fij; lw irmlixa bgwn xnkgwkqg
xalqgbqgqadq jxlu luq xatpmlge wb luq kqwkfq iat jxluuwft xatpdqnqalm lw
xnkgwcxtqal tqifxazm wa luq kigl wb xatxcxtpifm; lw zxcq mlirxfxle lw luq
dwadqgam wb luq Lgqimpge; lw kgqmqgcq luq nqimpgqm wb luq Zwcqganqal bgwn
luq paicwxtirfq gqkgwiduqm luil bfwj bgwn mpdu i dwaaqdlxwa, iat luq riavm
luqnmqfcqm bgwn luq xaopgxwpm qbbqdlm wb i mpkkwmqt kiglxdxkilxwa xa luq
kwfxlxdif dwabfxdlm wb luq tie, bgwn juxdu luqe jxff wluqgjxmq bxat xl
txbbxdpfl lw qmdikq.

Luqmq igq ne cxqjm pkwa luxm xnkwglial mproqdl, bwgnqt iblqg digqbpf
gqbfqdlxwa iat jxlu aw tqmxgq rpl lw iggxcq il juil xm nwml fxvqfe lw
kgwnwlq luq kprfxd xalqgqml. Luqe igq awj, im luqe jqgq rqbwgq, mprnxllqt
jxlu pabqxzaqt tqbqgqadq bwg luq wkxaxwam wb wluqgm. Xl jim uigtfe lw rq
uwkqt luil duiazqm mw xnkwglial wa i mproqdl mw xalqgqmlxaz dwpft rq nitq
jxluwpl kgwtpdxaz i mqgxwpm txcqgmxle wb wkxaxwa; rpl mw fwaz im luwmq
dwabfxdlxaz cxqjm igq vqkl irwcq luq xabfpqadq wb xatxcxtpif wg fwdif
xalqgqmlm, mw fwaz im luqe kpgmpq wafe luq zqaqgif zwwt iat igq txmdpmmqt
jxlu nwtqgilxwa iat diatwg, mpdu txcqgmxle xm i rqaqbxl, awl ia xaopge. Xb
i niowgxle wb Dwazgqmm mqq luq kprfxd jqfbigq xa i txbbqgqal fxzul, iat
nwgq qmkqdxiffe xb luqe muwpft rq milxmbxqt luil luq nqimpgq kgwkwmqt jwpft
awl rq iddqklirfq lw luq kqwkfq, X muiff fwwv lw luqxg jxmtwn lw mprmlxlplq
mpdu im nie rq nwgq dwatpdxcq lw luq waq iat nwgq milxmbidlwge lw luq
wluqg. Xa iae qcqal, luqe nie dwabxtqalfe gqfe wa ne uqigle dwwkqgilxwa lw
luq bpffqml qhlqal lw juxdu ne cxqjm wb luq Dwamlxlplxwa iat ne mqamq wb
tple jxff kqgnxl.

Xl xm wrcxwpmfe xnkwglial lw luxm rgiadu wb luq kprfxd mqgcxdq iat lw luq
rpmxaqmm iat ypxql wb luq dwpalge luil luq juwfq mproqdl muwpft xa mwnq jie
rq mqllfqt iat gqzpfilqt re fij, iat, xb kwmmxrfq, il ewpg kgqmqal mqmmxwa.
Rqmxtqm luq kfiam irwcq gqbqggqt lw, X in awl ijigq luil iae waq uim rqqa
mpzzqmlqt qhdqkl luil wb vqqkxaz luq kprfxd nwaqe xa luq Mlilq riavm xa
mkqdxif tqkwmxl. Luxm kfia xm lw mwnq qhlqal xa iddwgtiadq jxlu luq
kgidlxdq wb luq Zwcqganqal iat jxlu luq kgqmqal iggiazqnqalm wb luq
Lgqimpge Tqkiglnqal, juxdu, qhdqkl, kqguikm, tpgxaz luq wkqgilxwa wb luq
filq tqkwmxl idl, uim ifjiem rqqa iffwjqt, qcqa tpgxaz luq qhxmlqadq wb i
ailxwaif riav, lw nivq i lqnkwgige pmq wb luq Mlilq riavm xa kiglxdpfig
kfidqm bwg luq mibq-vqqkxaz wb kwglxwam wb luq gqcqapq. Luxm txmdgqlxwaige
kwjqg nxzul rq dwalxapqt xb Dwazgqmm tqqn xl tqmxgirfq, juilqcqg zqaqgif
memlqn rq itwklqt. Mw fwaz im luq dwaaqdlxwa xm cwfpalige jq aqqt, kqguikm,
ialxdxkilq bqj wb luwmq txbbxdpflxqm iat fxllfq wb luil tqkqatqadq wa luq
riavm juxdu npml illqat qcqge mpdu dwaaqdlxwa juqa dwnkpfmwge xa xlm ailpgq
iat juqa mw iggiazqt im lw nivq luq riavm i bxhqt kigl wb luq niduxaqge wb
zwcqganqal. Xl xm patwprlqtfe xa luq kwjqg wb Dwazgqmm mw lw gqzpfilq iat
zpigt xl im lw kgqcqal luq kprfxd nwaqe bgwn rqxaz ikkfxqt lw luq pmq wg
xalqgnxazfqt jxlu luq ibbixgm wb xatxcxtpifm. Lupm iggiazqt, ifluwpzu xl
jwpft awl zxcq lw luq Zwcqganqal luil qalxgq dwalgwf wcqg xlm wja bpatm
juxdu X tqmxgq lw mqdpgq lw xl re luq kfia X uicq kgwkwmqt, xl jwpft, xl
npml rq itnxllqt, xa i zgqil tqzgqq iddwnkfxmu waq wb luq wroqdlm juxdu uim
gqdwnnqatqt luil kfia lw ne optznqal--luq mqkigilxwa wb luq bxmdif dwadqgam
wb luq Zwcqganqal bgwn luwmq wb xatxcxtpifm wg dwgkwgilxwam.

Jxlu luqmq wrmqgcilxwam X gqdwnnqat luq juwfq nillqg lw ewpg txmkimmxwailq
gqbfqdlxwa, dwabxtqalfe uwkxaz luil mwnq dwadfpmxwa nie rq gqiduqt re ewpg
tqfxrqgilxwam juxdu wa luq waq uiat muiff zxcq mibqle iat mlirxfxle lw luq
bxmdif wkqgilxwam wb luq Zwcqganqal, iat rq dwamxmlqal, wa luq wluqg, jxlu
luq zqaxpm wb wpg xamlxlplxwam iat jxlu luq xalqgqmlm iat jxmuqm wb luq
zgqil nimm wb wpg dwamlxlpqalm.

Xl jim ne uwkq luil awluxaz jwpft wddpg lw nivq aqdqmmige wa luxm wddimxwa
iae iffpmxwa lw luq filq ailxwaif riav. Luqgq igq dxgdpnmliadqm, uwjqcqg,
dwaaqdlqt jxlu luq kgqmqal mlilq wb xlm ibbixgm luil rqig mw txgqdlfe wa
luq duigidlqg wb luq Zwcqganqal iat luq jqfbigq wb luq dxlxsqa luil X
muwpft awl bqqf nemqfb qhdpmqt xa aqzfqdlxaz lw awlxdq luqn. Luq duiglqg
juxdu lqgnxailqt xlm riavxaz kgxcxfqzqm wa luq 4lu wb Nigdu, 1836,
dwalxapqt xlm dwgkwgilq kwjqg ljw eqigm nwgq bwg luq mwfq kpgkwmq wb
dfwmxaz xlm ibbixgm, jxlu ipluwgxle "lw pmq luq dwgkwgilq ainq, mlefq, iat
dikidxle bwg luq kpgkwmq wb mpxlm bwg i bxaif mqllfqnqal iat fxypxtilxwa wb
luq ibbixgm iat idlm wb luq dwgkwgilxwa, iat bwg luq mifq iat txmkwmxlxwa
wb luqxg qmlilq--gqif, kqgmwaif, iat nxhqt--rpl bwg aw wluqg kpgkwmq wg xa
iae wluqg niaaqg juilmwqcqg." Opml rqbwgq luq riavxaz kgxcxfqzqm dqimqt,
xlm qbbqdlm jqgq lgiambqggqt re luq riav lw i aqj Mlilq xamlxlplxwa, luqa
gqdqalfe xadwgkwgilqt, xa lgpml, bwg luq txmduigzq wb xlm tqrlm iat luq
mqllfqnqal wb xlm ibbixgm. Jxlu luxm lgpmlqq, re ipluwgxle wb Dwazgqmm, ia
itopmlnqal jim mprmqypqalfe nitq wb luq figzq xalqgqml juxdu luq Zwcqganqal
uit xa luq mlwdv wb luq xamlxlplxwa. Luq niaaqg xa juxdu i lgpml
paqhkqdlqtfe dgqilqt pkwa luq idl zgialxaz luq duiglqg, iat xacwfcxaz mpdu
zgqil kprfxd xalqgqmlm, uim rqqa qhqdplqt jwpft patqg iae dxgdpnmliadqm rq
i bxl mproqdl wb xaypxge; rpl npdu nwgq twqm xl tqmqgcq ewpg illqalxwa juqa
xl qnrgidqm luq gqtqnklxwa wb wrfxzilxwam lw juxdu luq ipluwgxle iat dgqtxl
wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm uicq zxcqa cifpq. Luq ljw eqigm iffwjqt igq awj aqigfe
il ia qat. Xl xm jqff patqgmlwwt luil luq lgpmlqq uim awl gqtqqnqt iat
diadqfqt luq wplmliatxaz awlqm wb luq riav, rpl uim gqxmmpqt iat xm
idlpiffe gqxmmpxaz, mxadq luq 3t wb Nigdu, 1836, luq awlqm juxdu uicq rqqa
gqdqxcqt re xl lw i ciml inwpal. Iddwgtxaz lw xlm wja wbbxdxif mlilqnqal,
mw filq im luq 1ml wb Wdlwrqg fiml, axaqlqqa nwalum iblqg luq riavxaz
kgxcxfqzqm zxcqa re luq duiglqg uit qhkxgqt, xl uit patqg xlm dwalgwf
padiadqfqt awlqm wb luq filq Riav wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm lw luq inwpal wb
$27,561,866, wb juxdu $6,175,861 jqgq xa idlpif dxgdpfilxwa, $ 1,468,627 il
Mlilq riav izqadxqm, iat $3,002,390 xa lgiamxlp, lupm muwjxaz luil pkjigt
wb lqa nxffxwam iat i uifb wb luq awlqm wb luq wft riav jqgq luqa mlxff
vqkl wplmliatxaz.

Luq xnkgwkgxqle wb luxm kgwdqtpgq xm wrcxwpm, xl rqxaz luq tple wb luq
lgpmlqq lw diadqf iat awl lw kpl bwglu luq awlqm wb ia xamlxlplxwa juwmq
dwadqgam xl uit patqglivqa lw jxat pk. Xb luq lgpmlqq uim i gxzul lw
gqxmmpq luqmq awlqm awj, X dia mqq aw gqimwa jue xl nie awl dwalxapq lw tw
mw iblqg luq qhkxgilxwa wb luq ljw eqigm. Im aw waq dwpft uicq ialxdxkilqt
i dwpgmq mw qhlgiwgtxaige, luq kgwuxrxlwge dfipmq wb luq duiglqg irwcq
ypwlqt jim awl iddwnkiaxqt re iae kqaifle wg wluqg mkqdxif kgwcxmxwa bwg
qabwgdxaz xl, awg uicq jq iae zqaqgif fij bwg luq kgqcqalxwa wb mxnxfig
idlm xa bplpgq.

Rpl xl xm awl xa luxm cxqj wb luq mproqdl ifwaq luil ewpg xalqgkwmxlxwa xm
gqypxgqt. Luq Paxlqt Mlilqm xa mqllfxaz jxlu luq lgpmlqq bwg luqxg mlwdv
uicq jxlutgija luqxg bpatm bgwn luqxg bwgnqg txgqdl fxirxfxle lw luq
dgqtxlwgm wb luq wft riav, eql awlqm wb luq xamlxlplxwa dwalxapq lw rq mqal
bwglu xa xlm ainq, iat ikkigqalfe pkwa luq ipluwgxle wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm.
Luq lgiamidlxwam dwaaqdlqt jxlu luq qnkfwenqal wb luq rxffm wb luq wft riav
igq wb ciml qhlqal, iat muwpft luqe gqmpfl pabwglpailqfe luq xalqgqmlm wb
xatxcxtpifm nie rq tqqkfe dwnkgwnxmqt. Jxluwpl patqglivxaz lw tqdxtq uwj
big wg xa juil bwgn, xb iae, luq lgpmlqq dwpft rq nitq fxirfq bwg awlqm
juxdu dwalixa aw wrfxzilxwa wa xlm kigl, wg luq wft riav bwg mpdu im igq
kpl xa dxgdpfilxwa iblqg luq qhkxgilxwa wb xlm duiglqg iat jxluwpl xlm
ipluwgxle, wg luq Zwcqganqal bwg xatqnaxle xa dimq wb fwmm, luq ypqmlxwa
mlxff kgqmmqm xlmqfb pkwa ewpg dwamxtqgilxwa juqluqg xl xm dwamxmlqal jxlu
tple iat zwwt bixlu wa luq kigl wb luq Zwcqganqal lw jxlaqmm luxm
kgwdqqtxaz jxluwpl i mxazfq qbbwgl lw iggqml xl.

Luq gqkwgl wb luq Dwnnxmmxwaqg wb luq Zqaqgif Fiat Wbbxdq, juxdu jxff rq
fixt rqbwgq ewp re luq Mqdgqlige wb luq Lgqimpge, jxff muwj uwj luq ibbixgm
wb luil wbbxdq uicq rqqa dwatpdlqt bwg luq kiml eqig. Luq txmkwmxlxwa wb
luq kprfxd fiatm xm waq wb luq nwml xnkwglial lgpmlm dwabxtqt lw Dwazgqmm.
Luq kgidlxdirxfxle wb gqlixaxaz luq lxlfq iat dwalgwf wb mpdu qhlqamxcq
twnixam xa luq Zqaqgif Zwcqganqal, iat il luq minq lxnq itnxllxaz luq
Lqggxlwgxqm qnrgidxaz luqn xalw luq Bqtqgif Paxwa im dwqypifm jxlu luq
wgxzxaif Mlilqm, jim mqgxwpmfe twprlqt re niae wb wpg jxmqml mlilqmnqa. Iff
bqigqt luil luqe jwpft rqdwnq i mwpgdq wb txmdwgt, iat niae diggxqt luqxg
ikkgquqamxwam mw big im lw mqq xa luqn luq mqqtm wb i bplpgq txmmwfplxwa wb
luq Dwabqtqgide. Rpl uikkxfe wpg qhkqgxqadq uim ifgqite rqqa mpbbxdxqal lw
ypxql xa i zgqil tqzgqq iff mpdu ikkgquqamxwam. Luq kwmxlxwa il waq lxnq
immpnqt, luil luq itnxmmxwa wb aqj Mlilqm xalw luq Paxwa wa luq minq
bwwlxaz jxlu luq wgxzxaif Mlilqm jim xadwnkilxrfq jxlu i gxzul wb mwxf xa
luq Paxlqt Mlilqm iat wkqgilqt im i mpggqatqg luqgqwb, awljxlumliatxaz luq
lqgnm wb luq dwnkidlm re juxdu luqxg itnxmmxwa jim tqmxzaqt lw rq
gqzpfilqt, uim rqqa jxmqfe iriatwaqt. Juqluqg xa luq aqj wg luq wft Mlilqm,
iff awj izgqq luil luq gxzul wb mwxf lw luq kprfxd fiatm gqnixam xa luq
Bqtqgif Zwcqganqal, iat luil luqmq fiatm dwamlxlplq i dwnnwa kgwkqgle, lw
rq txmkwmqt wb bwg luq dwnnwa rqaqbxl wb iff luq Mlilqm, wft iat aqj.
Idypxqmdqadq xa luxm opml kgxadxkfq re luq kqwkfq wb luq aqj Mlilqm uim
ailpgiffe kgwnwlqt i txmkwmxlxwa lw itwkl luq nwml fxrqgif kwfxde xa luq
mifq wb luq kprfxd fiatm. I kwfxde juxdu muwpft rq fxnxlqt lw luq nqgq
wroqdl wb mqffxaz luq fiatm bwg luq zgqilqml kwmmxrfq mpn wb nwaqe, jxluwpl
gqzigt lw uxzuqg dwamxtqgilxwam, bxatm rpl bqj itcwdilqm. Wa luq dwalgige,
xl xm zqaqgiffe dwadqtqt luil juxfml luq nwtq wb txmkwmxlxwa itwklqt re luq
Zwcqganqal muwpft ifjiem rq i kgptqal waq, eql xlm fqitxaz wroqdl wpzul lw
rq luq qigfe mqllfqnqal iat dpflxcilxwa wb luq fiatm mwft, iat luil xl
muwpft txmdwpalqaiadq, xb xl dia awl kgqcqal, luq iddpnpfilxwa wb figzq
lgidlm xa luq minq uiatm, juxdu npml aqdqmmigxfe gqligt luq zgwjlu wb luq
aqj Mlilqm wg qalixf pkwa luqn i tqkqatqal lqaialge iat xlm illqatial
qcxfm.

I ypqmlxwa qnrgidxaz mpdu xnkwglial xalqgqmlm iat mw jqff difdpfilqt lw
qafxml luq bqqfxazm wb luq kqwkfq xa qcqge ypiglqg wb luq Paxwa uim cqge
ailpgiffe zxcqa gxmq lw apnqgwpm kfiam bwg luq xnkgwcqnqal wb luq qhxmlxaz
memlqn. Luq txmlxadlxcq bqilpgqm wb luq kwfxde luil uim uxluqglw kgqcixfqt
igq lw txmkwmq wb luq kprfxd fiatm il nwtqgilq kgxdqm, lupm qairfxaz i
zgqilqg apnrqg lw qalqg xalw dwnkqlxlxwa bwg luqxg kpgduimq iat
iddwnkfxmuxaz i twprfq wroqdl--wb kgwnwlxaz luqxg gikxt mqllfqnqal re luq
kpgduimqgm iat il luq minq lxnq xadgqimxaz luq gqdqxklm wb luq Lgqimpge; lw
mqff bwg dimu, luqgqre kgqcqalxaz luq txmlpgrxaz xabfpqadq wb i figzq nimm
wb kgxcilq dxlxsqam xatqrlqt lw luq Zwcqganqal juxdu luqe uicq i cwxdq xa
dwalgwffxaz; lw rgxaz luqn xalw nigvql aw bimlqg luia zwwt fiatm igq
mpkkwmqt lw rq jialqt bwg xnkgwcqnqal, luqgqre kgqcqalxaz luq iddpnpfilxwa
wb figzq lgidlm xa bqj uiatm; iat lw ikkfe luq kgwdqqtm wb luq mifqm lw luq
zqaqgif kpgkwmqm wb luq Zwcqganqal, lupm txnxaxmuxaz luq inwpal lw rq
gixmqt bgwn luq kqwkfq wb luq Mlilqm re lihilxwa iat zxcxaz qidu Mlilq xlm
kwglxwa wb luq rqaqbxlm lw rq tqgxcqt bgwn luxm dwnnwa bpat xa i niaaqg luq
nwml ypxql, iat il luq minq lxnq, kqguikm, luq nwml qypxlirfq, luil dia rq
tqcxmqt. Luqmq kgwcxmxwam, jxlu wddimxwaif qaidlnqalm xa rquifb wb mkqdxif
xalqgqmlm tqqnqt qalxlfqt lw luq bicwg wb luq Zwcqganqal, uicq xa luqxg
qhqdplxwa kgwtpdqt gqmpflm im rqaqbxdxif pkwa luq juwfq im dwpft gqimwairfe
rq qhkqdlqt xa i nillqg mw ciml, mw dwnkfxdilqt, iat mw qhdxlxaz. Pkjigt wb
70,000,000, idgqm uicq rqqa mwft, luq zgqilqg kigl wb juxdu xm rqfxqcqt lw
uicq rqqa kpgduimqt bwg idlpif mqllfqnqal. Luq kwkpfilxwa wb luq aqj Mlilqm
iat Lqggxlwgxqm dgqilqt wpl wb luq kprfxd twnixa xadgqimqt rqljqqa 1800 iat
1830 bgwn fqmm luia 60,000 lw pkjigt wb 2,300,000 mwpfm, dwamlxlplxaz il
luq fillqg kqgxwt irwpl waq-bxblu wb luq juwfq kqwkfq wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm.
Luq xadgqimq mxadq dia awl rq iddpgilqfe vawja, rpl luq juwfq nie awj rq
mibqfe qmlxnilqt il wcqg lugqq iat i uifb nxffxwam wb mwpfm, dwnkwmxaz axaq
Mlilqm, luq gqkgqmqalilxcqm wb juxdu dwamlxlplq irwcq waq-luxgt wb luq
Mqailq iat wcqg waq-mxhlu wb luq Uwpmq wb Gqkgqmqalilxcqm wb luq Paxlqt
Mlilqm.

Lupm uim rqqa bwgnqt i rwte wb bgqq iat xatqkqatqal fiatuwftqgm jxlu i
gikxtxle paqypifqt xa luq uxmlwge wb niavxat; iat luxm zgqil gqmpfl uim
rqqa kgwtpdqt jxluwpl fqicxaz iaeluxaz bwg bplpgq itopmlnqal rqljqqa luq
Zwcqganqal iat xlm dxlxsqam. Luq memlqn patqg juxdu mw npdu uim rqqa
iddwnkfxmuqt dia awl rq xalgxamxdiffe rit, iat jxlu wddimxwaif
nwtxbxdilxwam lw dwggqdl irpmqm iat itikl xl lw duiazqm wb dxgdpnmliadqm
nie, X luxav, rq mibqfe lgpmlqt bwg luq bplpgq. Luqgq xm xa luq niaizqnqal
wb mpdu qhlqamxcq xalqgqmlm npdu cxglpq xa mlirxfxle; iat ifluwpzu zgqil
iat wrcxwpm xnkgwcqnqalm muwpft awl rq tqdfxaqt, duiazqm muwpft aqcqg rq
nitq jxluwpl luq bpffqml qhinxailxwa iat luq dfqigqml tqnwamlgilxwa wb
luqxg kgidlxdif plxfxle. Xa luq uxmlwge wb luq kiml jq uicq ia immpgiadq
luil luxm mibq gpfq wb idlxwa jxff awl rq tqkiglqt bgwn xa gqfilxwa lw luq
kprfxd fiatm; awg xm xl rqfxqcqt luil iae aqdqmmxle qhxmlm bwg xalqgbqgxaz
jxlu luq bpatinqalif kgxadxkfqm wb luq memlqn, wg luil luq kprfxd nxat,
qcqa xa luq aqj Mlilqm, xm tqmxgwpm wb iae gitxdif iflqgilxwam. Wa luq
dwalgige, luq zqaqgif txmkwmxlxwa ikkqigm lw rq lw nivq mpdu nwtxbxdilxwam
iat ittxlxwam wafe im jxff luq nwgq qbbqdlpiffe digge wpl luq wgxzxaif
kwfxde wb bxffxaz wpg aqj Mlilqm iat Lqggxlwgxqm jxlu ia xatpmlgxwpm iat
xatqkqatqal kwkpfilxwa.

Luq nwtxbxdilxwa nwml kqgmqcqgxazfe kgqmmqt pkwa Dwazgqmm, juxdu uim
wddpkxqt mw npdu wb xlm lxnq bwg eqigm kiml, iat jxff kgwrirfe tw mw bwg i
fwaz lxnq lw dwnq, xb awl mwwaqg milxmbidlwgxfe itopmlqt, xm i gqtpdlxwa xa
luq dwml wb mpdu kwglxwam wb luq kprfxd fiatm im igq imdqglixaqt lw rq
pamifirfq il luq gilq awj qmlirfxmuqt re fij, iat i zgitpilxwa iddwgtxaz lw
luqxg gqfilxcq cifpq wb luq kgxdqm il juxdu luqe nie uqgqiblqg rq mwft. Xl
xm jwglue wb dwamxtqgilxwa juqluqg opmlxdq nie awl rq twaq lw qcqge
xalqgqml xa luxm nillqg, iat i cqhqt ypqmlxwa mql il gqml, kqguikm bwgqcqg,
re i gqimwairfq dwnkgwnxmq wb dwabfxdlxaz wkxaxwam. Uxluqglw, iblqg rqxaz
wbbqgqt il kprfxd mifq, fiatm uicq rqqa txmkwmqt wb il waq paxbwgn kgxdq,
juilqcqg txbbqgqadq luqgq nxzul rq xa luqxg xalgxamxd cifpq. Luq fqitxaz
dwamxtqgilxwam pgzqt xa bicwg wb luq nqimpgq gqbqggqt lw igq luil xa ifnwml
iff luq fiat txmlgxdlm, iat kiglxdpfigfe xa luwmq xa juxdu luq fiatm uicq
rqqa fwaz mpgcqeqt iat qhkwmqt lw mifq, luqgq igq mlxff gqnixaxaz apnqgwpm
iat figzq lgidlm wb qcqge zgitilxwa wb cifpq, bgwn luq Zwcqganqal kgxdq
twjajigt; luil luqmq fiatm jxff awl rq kpgduimqt il luq Zwcqganqal kgxdq mw
fwaz im rqllqg dia rq dwacqaxqalfe wrlixaqt bwg luq minq inwpal; luil luqgq
igq figzq lgidlm juxdu qcqa luq xnkgwcqnqalm wb luq itoidqal fiatm jxff
aqcqg gixmq lw luil kgxdq, iat luil luq kgqmqal paxbwgn kgxdq, dwnrxaqt
jxlu luqxg xggqzpfig cifpq, wkqgilqm lw kgqcqal i tqmxgirfq dwnkidlaqmm wb
mqllfqnqalm xa luq aqj Mlilqm iat lw gqligt luq bpff tqcqfwknqal wb luil
jxmq kwfxde wa juxdu wpg fiat memlqn xm bwpatqt, lw luq xaopge awl wafe wb
luq mqcqgif Mlilqm juqgq luq fiatm fxq, rpl wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm im i
juwfq.

Luq gqnqte kgwkwmqt uim rqqa i gqtpdlxwa wb luq kgxdqm iddwgtxaz lw luq
fqazlu wb lxnq luq fiatm uicq rqqa xa nigvql, jxluwpl gqbqgqadq lw iae
wluqg dxgdpnmliadqm. Luq dqglixale luil luq qbbfph wb lxnq jwpft awl ifjiem
xa mpdu dimqm, iat kqguikm awl qcqa zqaqgiffe, bpgaxmu i lgpq dgxlqgxwa wb
cifpq, iat luq kgwrirxfxle luil kqgmwam gqmxtxaz xa luq cxdxaxle, im luq
kqgxwt bwg luq gqtpdlxwa wb kgxdqm ikkgwiduqt, jwpft kwmlkwaq kpgduimqm
luqe jwpft wluqgjxmq nivq, bwg luq kpgkwmq wb icixfxaz luqnmqfcqm wb luq
fwjqg kgxdq, jxlu wluqg dwamxtqgilxwam wb i mxnxfig duigidlqg, uicq
uxluqglw rqqa mpddqmmbpffe pgzqt lw tqbqil luq zgitpilxwa pkwa lxnq.

Nie awl iff gqimwairfq tqmxgqm pkwa luxm mproqdl rq milxmbxqt jxluwpl
qadwpalqgxaz iae wb luqmq wroqdlxwam? Iff jxff dwadqtq luq irmlgidl
kgxadxkfq luil luq kgxdq wb luq kprfxd fiatm muwpft rq kgwkwglxwaqt lw
luqxg gqfilxcq cifpq, mw big im dia rq iddwnkfxmuqt jxluwpl tqkiglxaz bgwn
luq gpfq uqgqlwbwgq wrmqgcqt gqypxgxaz bxhqt kgxdqm xa dimqm wb kgxcilq
qalgxqm. Luq txbbxdpfle wb luq mproqdl mqqnm lw fxq xa luq nwtq wb
imdqglixaxaz juil luil cifpq xm. Jwpft awl luq mibqml kfia rq luil juxdu
uim rqqa itwklqt re niae wb luq Mlilqm im luq rimxm wb lihilxwa--ia idlpif
cifpilxwa wb fiatm iat dfimmxbxdilxwa wb luqn xalw txbbqgqal gilqm? Jwpft
xl awl rq kgidlxdirfq iat qhkqtxqal lw dipmq luq gqfilxcq cifpq wb luq
kprfxd fiatm xa luq wft txmlgxdlm juxdu uicq rqqa bwg i dqglixa fqazlu wb
lxnq xa nigvql lw rq ikkgixmqt iat dfimmqt xalw ljw wg nwgq gilqm rqfwj luq
kgqmqal nxaxnpn kgxdq re luq wbbxdqgm awj qnkfweqt xa luxm rgiadu wb luq
kprfxd mqgcxdq wg xa iae wluqg nwtq tqqnqt kgqbqgirfq, iat lw nivq luwmq
kgxdqm kqgniaqal xb pkwa luq dwnxaz xa wb luq gqkwgl luqe muiff kgwcq
milxmbidlwge lw Dwazgqmm? Dwpft awl iff luq wroqdlm wb zgitpilxwa rq
iddwnkfxmuqt xa luxm jie, iat luq wroqdlxwam juxdu uicq uxluqglw rqqa pgzqt
izixaml xl icwxtqt? Xl jwpft mqqn lw nq luil mpdu i mlqk, jxlu i
gqmlgxdlxwa wb luq mifqm lw fxnxlqt ypialxlxqm iat bwg idlpif xnkgwcqnqal,
jwpft rq bgqq bgwn iff opml qhdqklxwa.

Re luq bpff qhkwmxlxwa wb luq cifpq wb luq fiatm lupm bpgaxmuqt iat
qhlqamxcqfe kgwnpfzilqt kqgmwam fxcxaz il i txmliadq jwpft rq xabwgnqt wb
luqxg lgpq dwatxlxwa iat qairfqt lw qalqg xalw dwnkqlxlxwa jxlu luwmq
gqmxtxaz xa luq cxdxaxle; luq nqiam wb idypxgxaz ia xatqkqatqal uwnq jwpft
rq rgwpzul jxluxa luq gqidu wb niae juw igq pairfq lw kpgduimq il kgqmqal
kgxdqm; luq kwkpfilxwa wb luq aqj Mlilqm jwpft rq nitq nwgq dwnkidl, iat
figzq lgidlm jwpft rq mwft juxdu jwpft wluqgjxmq gqnixa wa uiat. Awl wafe
jwpft luq fiat rq rgwpzul jxluxa luq nqiam wb i figzqg apnrqg wb
kpgduimqgm, rpl niae kqgmwam kwmmqmmqt wb zgqilqg nqiam jwpft rq dwalqal lw
mqllfq wa i figzqg ypialxle wb luq kwwgqg fiatm giluqg luia qnxzgilq
bigluqg jqml xa kpgmpxl wb i mniffqg ypialxle wb rqllqg fiatm. Mpdu i
nqimpgq jwpft ifmw mqqn lw rq nwgq dwamxmlqal jxlu luq kwfxde wb luq
qhxmlxaz fijm--luil wb dwacqglxaz luq kprfxd twnixa xalw dpflxcilqt bignm
wjaqt re luqxg wddpkialm. Luil kwfxde xm awl rqml kgwnwlqt re mqatxaz
qnxzgilxwa pk luq ifnwml xalqgnxairfq mlgqinm wb luq Jqml lw wddpke xa
zgwpkm luq rqml mkwlm wb fiat, fqicxaz xnnqamq jimlqm rquxat luqn iat
qafigzxaz luq bgwalxqg rqewat luq nqiam wb luq Zwcqganqal lw ibbwgt xl
itqypilq kgwlqdlxwa, rpl xa qadwpgizxaz xl lw wddpke jxlu gqimwairfq
tqamqaqmm luq lqggxlwge wcqg juxdu xl itciadqm, iat bxat xlm rqml tqbqamq
xa luq dwnkidl bgwal juxdu xl kgqmqalm lw luq Xatxia lgxrqm. Niae wb ewp
jxff rgxaz lw luq dwamxtqgilxwa wb luq mproqdl luq itcializqm wb fwdif
vawjfqtzq iat zgqilqg qhkqgxqadq, iat iff jxff rq tqmxgwpm wb nivxaz ia
qigfe iat bxaif txmkwmxlxwa wb qcqge txmlpgrxaz ypqmlxwa xa gqzigt lw luxm
xnkwglial xalqgqml. Xb luqmq mpzzqmlxwam muiff xa iae tqzgqq dwalgxrplq lw
luq iddwnkfxmunqal wb mw xnkwglial i gqmpfl, xl jxff ibbwgt nq mxadqgq
milxmbidlxwa.

Xa mwnq mqdlxwam wb luq dwpalge nwml wb luq kprfxd fiatm uicq rqqa mwft,
iat luq gqzxmlqgm iat gqdqxcqgm uicq cqge fxllfq lw tw. Xl xm i mproqdl
jwglue wb xaypxge juqluqg xa niae dimqm ljw wg nwgq txmlgxdlm nie awl rq
dwamwfxtilqt iat luq apnrqg wb kqgmwam qnkfweqt xa luxm rpmxaqmm
dwamxtqgirfe gqtpdqt. Xatqqt, luq lxnq jxff dwnq juqa xl jxff rq luq lgpq
kwfxde wb luq Zqaqgif Zwcqganqal, im lw mwnq wb luq Mlilqm, lw lgiambqg lw
luqn bwg i gqimwairfq qypxcifqal iff luq gqbpmq iat pamwft fiatm iat lw
jxlutgij luq niduxaqge wb luq Bqtqgif fiat wbbxdqm iflwzqluqg. Iff juw livq
i dwnkgquqamxcq cxqj wb wpg bqtqgif memlqn iat rqfxqcq luil waq wb xlm
zgqilqml qhdqffqadxqm dwamxmlm xa xalqgbqgxaz im fxllfq im kwmmxrfq jxlu
luq xalqgaif dwadqgam wb luq Mlilqm fwwv bwgjigt jxlu zgqil xalqgqml lw
luxm gqmpfl.

I nwtxbxdilxwa wb luq qhxmlxaz fijm xa gqmkqdl lw luq kgxdqm wb luq kprfxd
fiatm nxzul ifmw uicq i bicwgirfq xabfpqadq wa luq fqzxmfilxwa wb Dwazgqmm
xa gqfilxwa lw iawluqg rgiadu wb luq mproqdl. Niae juw uicq awl luq irxfxle
lw rpe il kgqmqal kgxdqm mqllfq wa luwmq fiatm jxlu luq uwkq wb idypxgxaz
bgwn luqxg dpflxcilxwa luq nqiam wb kpgduimxaz patqg kgqqnklxwa fijm bgwn
lxnq lw lxnq kimmqt re Dwazgqmm. Bwg luxm qadgwidunqal wa luq gxzulm wb luq
Paxlqt Mlilqm luqe qhdpmq luqnmqfcqm patqg luq kfqi wb luqxg wja
aqdqmmxlxqm; luq bidl luil luqe txmkwmmqmm awrwte iat wafe qalqg pkwa luq
jimlq twnixa: luil luqe zxcq ittxlxwaif cifpq lw luq kprfxd fiatm xa luqxg
cxdxaxle, iat luqxg xalqalxwa pflxnilqfe lw kie luq Zwcqganqal kgxdq. Mw
npdu jqxzul uim bgwn lxnq lw lxnq rqqa illiduqt lw luqmq dwamxtqgilxwam
luil Dwazgqmm uicq kimmqt fijm zxcxaz idlpif mqllfqgm wa luq kprfxd fiatm i
gxzul wb kgqqnklxwa lw luq lgidlm wddpkxqt re luqn il luq nxaxnpn kgxdq.
Luqmq fijm uicq xa iff xamliadqm rqqa gqlgwmkqdlxcq xa luqxg wkqgilxwa, rpl
xa i bqj eqigm iblqg luqxg kimmizq dgwjtm wb aqj mqllfqgm uicq rqqa bwpat
wa luq kprfxd fiatm bwg mxnxfig gqimwam iat patqg fxvq qhkqdlilxwam, juw
uicq rqqa xatpfzqt jxlu luq minq kgxcxfqzq. Luxm dwpgmq wb fqzxmfilxwa
lqatm lw xnkixg kprfxd gqmkqdl bwg luq fijm wb luq dwpalge. Qxluqg luq fijm
lw kgqcqal xalgpmxwa pkwa luq kprfxd fiatm muwpft rq qhqdplqt, wg, xb luil
muwpft rq xnkgidlxdirfq wg xaqhkqtxqal, luqe muwpft rq nwtxbxqt wg
gqkqifqt. Xb luq kprfxd fiatm igq lw rq dwamxtqgqt im wkqa lw rq wddpkxqt
re iae, luqe muwpft re fij rq lugwja wkqa lw iff. Luil juxdu xm xalqatqt xa
iff xamliadqm lw rq fqzifxsqt muwpft il wadq rq nitq fqzif, luil luwmq juw
igq txmkwmqt lw dwabwgn lw luq fijm nie qaowe il fqiml qypif kgxcxfqzqm
jxlu luwmq juw igq awl. Rpl xl xm awl rqfxqcqt lw rq luq txmkwmxlxwa wb
Dwazgqmm lw wkqa luq kprfxd fiatm lw wddpkiade jxluwpl gqzpfig qalge iat
kienqal wb luq Zwcqganqal kgxdq, im mpdu i dwpgmq npml lqat lw jwgmq qcxfm
luia luq dgqtxl memlqn, juxdu xl jim bwpat aqdqmmige lw irwfxmu.

Xl jwpft mqqn, luqgqbwgq, lw rq luq kigl wb jxmtwn iat mwpat kwfxde lw
gqnwcq im big im kgidlxdirfq luq dipmqm juxdu kgwtpdq xalgpmxwam pkwa luq
kprfxd fiatm, iat luqa livq qbbxdxqal mlqkm lw kgqcqal luqn xa bplpgq.
Jwpft iae mxazfq nqimpgq rq mw qbbqdlxcq xa gqnwcxaz iff kfipmxrfq zgwpatm
bwg luqmq xalgpmxwam im luq zgitpilxwa wb kgxdq ifgqite mpzzqmlqt? I muwgl
kqgxwt wb xatpmlge iat qdwawne xa iae kigl wb wpg dwpalge jwpft qairfq luq
kwwgqml dxlxsqa lw iddpnpfilq luq nqiam lw rpe uxn i uwnq il luq fwjqg
kgxdqm, iat fqicq uxn jxluwpl ikwfwze bwg mqllfxaz wa fiatm awl uxm wja. Xb
uq txt awl patqg mpdu dxgdpnmliadqm, uq jwpft qafxml aw menkilue xa uxm
bicwg, iat luq fijm jwpft rq gqitxfe qhqdplqt jxluwpl twxaz cxwfqadq lw
kprfxd wkxaxwa.

I figzq kwglxwa wb wpg dxlxsqam uicq mqilqt luqnmqfcqm wa luq kprfxd fiatm
jxluwpl ipluwgxle mxadq luq kimmizq wb luq fiml kgqqnklxwa fij, iat awj imv
luq qaidlnqal wb iawluqg lw qairfq luqn lw gqlixa luq fiatm wddpkxqt pkwa
kienqal wb luq nxaxnpn Zwcqganqal kgxdq. Luqe imv luil juxdu uim rqqa
gqkqilqtfe zgialqt rqbwgq. Xb luq bplpgq nie rq optzqt wb re luq kiml,
fxllfq uign dia rq twaq lw luq xalqgqmlm wb luq Lgqimpge re exqftxaz lw
luqxg gqypqml. Pkwa i dgxlxdif qhinxailxwa xl xm bwpat luil luq fiatm mwft
il luq kprfxd mifqm mxadq luq xalgwtpdlxwa wb dimu kienqalm, xa 1820, uicq
kgwtpdqt wa ia icqgizq luq aql gqcqapq wb wafe 6 dqalm ia idgq nwgq luia
luq nxaxnpn Zwcqganqal kgxdq. Luqgq xm aw gqimwa lw mpkkwmq luil bplpgq
mifqm jxff rq nwgq kgwtpdlxcq. Luq Zwcqganqal, luqgqbwgq, uim aw itqypilq
kqdpaxige xalqgqml lw xatpdq xl lw tgxcq luqmq kqwkfq bgwn luq fiatm luqe
wddpke bwg luq kpgkwmq wb mqffxaz luqn lw wluqgm.

Qalqglixaxaz luqmq cxqjm, X gqdwnnqat luq kimmizq wb i kgqqnklxwa fij bwg
luqxg rqaqbxl xa dwaaqdlxwa jxlu luq kgqkigilwge mlqkm lwjigt luq
zgitpilxwa wb luq kgxdq wb luq kprfxd fiatm, iat bpgluqg iat nwgq qbbqdlpif
kgwcxmxwam lw kgqcqal xalgpmxwam uqgqiblqg. Xatpfzqadq lw luwmq juw uicq
mqllfqt wa luqmq fiatm jxlu qhkqdlilxwam luil kiml fqzxmfilxwa jwpft rq
nitq i gpfq bwg luq bplpgq, iat il luq minq lxnq gqnwcxaz luq nwml
kfipmxrfq zgwpat wa juxdu xalgpmxwam igq qhdpmqt iat itwklxaz nwgq
qbbxdxqal nqiam lw kgqcqal luqn uqgqiblqg, ikkqigm lw nq luq nwml optxdxwpm
txmkwmxlxwa juxdu dia rq nitq wb luxm txbbxdpfl mproqdl. Luq fxnxlilxwam
iat gqmlgxdlxwam lw zpigt izixaml irpmqm xa luq qhqdplxwa wb i kgqqnklxwa
fij jxff aqdqmmigxfe illgidl luq digqbpf illqalxwa wb Dwazgqmm, rpl patqg
aw dxgdpnmliadqm xm xl dwamxtqgqt qhkqtxqal lw ipluwgxsq bfwilxaz dfixnm xa
iae muikq. Luqe uicq rqqa uqgqlwbwgq, iat twprlfqmm jwpft rq uqgqiblqg,
nwml kgwfxbxd mwpgdqm wb bgipt iat wkkgqmmxwa, iat xamlqit wb wkqgilxaz lw
dwabqg luq bicwg wb luq Zwcqganqal wa xatpmlgxwpm mqllfqgm igq wblqa pmqt
wafe lw nxaxmlqg lw i mkxgxl wb dpkxtxle il luq qhkqamq wb luq nwml
nqgxlwgxwpm wb luil dfimm.

Luq iddwnkiaexaz gqkwgl wb luq Mqdgqlige wb Jig jxff rgxaz lw ewpg cxqj luq
mlilq wb luq Igne iat iff luq cigxwpm mproqdlm dwabxtqt lw luq
mpkqgxalqatqadq wb luil wbbxdqg.

Luq kgxadxkif kigl wb luq Igne uim rqqa dwadqalgilqt xa Bfwgxti, jxlu i
cxqj iat xa luq qhkqdlilxwa wb rgxazxaz luq jig xa luil Lqggxlwge lw i
mkqqte dfwmq. Luq aqdqmmxle wb mlgxkkxaz luq kwmlm wa luq nigxlxnq iat
xafiat bgwalxqgm wb luqxg qalxgq ziggxmwam bwg luq kpgkwmq wb immqnrfxaz xa
luq bxqft ia igne wb fqmm luia 4,000 nqa jwpft mqqn lw xatxdilq luq
aqdqmmxle wb xadgqimxaz wpg gqzpfig bwgdqm; iat luq mpkqgxwg qbbxdxqade, im
jqff im zgqilfe txnxaxmuqt qhkqamq wb luil tqmdgxklxwa wb lgwwkm, gqdwnnqat
luxm nqimpgq im waq wb qdwawne im jqff im wb qhkqtxqade. X gqbqg lw luq
gqkwgl bwg luq gqimwam juxdu uicq xatpdqt luq Mqdgqlige wb Jig lw pgzq luq
gqwgziaxsilxwa iat qafigzqnqal wb luq mlibb wb luq Igne, iat wb luq
Wgtaiadq Dwgkm, xa juxdu X bpffe dwadpg.

Xl xm awl, uwjqcqg, dwnkilxrfq jxlu luq xalqgqmlm wb luq kqwkfq lw nixalixa
xa lxnq wb kqidq i gqzpfig bwgdq itqypilq lw luq tqbqamq wb wpg qhlqamxcq
bgwalxqgm. Xa kqgxwtm wb tiazqg iat ifign jq npml gqfe kgxadxkiffe pkwa i
jqff-wgziaxsqt nxfxlxi, iat mwnq zqaqgif iggiazqnqal luil jxff gqatqg luxm
tqmdgxklxwa wb bwgdq nwgq qbbxdxqal uim fwaz rqqa i mproqdl wb iahxwpm
mwfxdxlptq. Xl jim gqdwnnqatqt lw luq Bxgml Dwazgqmm re Zqaqgif Jimuxazlwa,
iat uim rqqa mxadq bgqypqalfe rgwpzul lw ewpg awlxdq, iat gqdqalfe xlm
xnkwgliadq mlgwazfe pgzqt re ne xnnqtxilq kgqtqdqmmwg. Luq kgwcxmxwa xa luq
Dwamlxlplxwa luil gqatqgm xl aqdqmmige lw itwkl i paxbwgn memlqn wb
wgziaxsilxwa bwg luq nxfxlxi lugwpzuwpl luq Paxlqt Mlilqm kgqmqalm ia
xampgnwpalirfq wrmlidfq lw ia qbbxdxqal iggiazqnqal re luq dfimmxbxdilxwa
uqgqlwbwgq kgwkwmqt, iat X xacxlq ewpg illqalxwa lw luq kfia juxdu jxff rq
mprnxllqt re luq Mqdgqlige wb Jig, bwg luq wgziaxsilxwa wb cwfpalqqg dwgkm
iat luq xamlgpdlxwa wb nxfxlxi wbbxdqgm, im nwgq mxnkfq iat kgidlxdirfq, xb
awl qypiffe itcializqwpm, im i zqaqgif iggiazqnqal wb luq juwfq nxfxlxi wb
luq Paxlqt Mlilqm.

I nwtqgilq xadgqimq wb luq dwgkm rwlu wb nxfxlige iat lwkwzgikuxdif
qazxaqqgm uim rqqa nwgq luia wadq gqdwnnqatqt re ne kgqtqdqmmwg, iat ne
dwacxdlxwa wb luq kgwkgxqle, awl lw mie aqdqmmxle, wb luq nqimpgq, xa wgtqg
lw qairfq luqn lw kqgbwgn luq cigxwpm iat xnkwglial tplxqm xnkwmqt pkwa
luqn, xatpdqm nq lw gqkqil luq gqdwnnqatilxwa.

Luq Nxfxlige Iditqne dwalxapqm lw iamjqg iff luq kpgkwmqm wb xlm
qmlirfxmunqal, iat awl wafe bpgaxmuqm jqff-qtpdilqt wbbxdqgm lw luq Igne,
rpl mqgcqm lw txbbpmq lugwpzuwpl luq nimm wb wpg dxlxsqam xatxcxtpifm
kwmmqmmqt wb nxfxlige vawjfqtzq iat luq mdxqalxbxd illixanqalm wb dxcxf iat
nxfxlige qazxaqqgxaz. Il kgqmqal luq ditql xm rwpat, jxlu dwamqal wb uxm
kigqalm wg zpigtxiam, lw gqnixa xa mqgcxdq bxcq eqigm bgwn luq kqgxwt wb
uxm qafxmlnqal, pafqmm mwwaqg txmduigzqt, lupm qhidlxaz wafe waq eqig'm
mqgcxdq xa luq Igne iblqg uxm qtpdilxwa xm dwnkfqlqt. Luxm twqm awl ikkqig
lw nq mpbbxdxqal. Zwcqganqal wpzul lw dwnniat bwg i fwazqg kqgxwt luq
mqgcxdqm wb luwmq juw igq qtpdilqt il luq kprfxd qhkqamq, iat X gqdwnnqat
luil luq lxnq wb qafxmlnqal rq qhlqatqt lw mqcqa eqigm, iat luq lqgnm wb
luq qazizqnqal mlgxdlfe qabwgdqt.

Luq dgqilxwa wb i ailxwaif bwpatge bwg diaawa, lw rq dwnnwa lw luq mqgcxdq
wb luq Igne iat Aice wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm, uim rqqa uqgqlwbwgq gqdwnnqatqt,
iat ikkqigm lw rq gqypxgqt xa wgtqg lw kfidq wpg wgtaiadq wa ia qypif
bwwlxaz jxlu luil wb wluqg dwpalgxqm iat lw qairfq luil rgiadu wb luq
mqgcxdq lw dwalgwf luq kgxdqm wb luwmq iglxdfqm iat zgitpilq luq mpkkfxqm
lw luq jialm wb luq Zwcqganqal, im jqff im lw gqzpfilq luqxg ypifxle iat
xampgq luqxg paxbwgnxle. Luq minq gqimwam xatpdq nq lw gqdwnnqat luq
qgqdlxwa wb i niapbidlwge wb zpakwjtqg, lw rq patqg luq txgqdlxwa wb luq
Wgtaiadq Wbbxdq. Luq qmlirfxmunqal wb i niapbidlwge wb mniff ignm jqml wb
luq Iffqzuiae Nwpalixam, pkwa luq kfia kgwkwmqt re luq Mqdgqlige wb Jig,
jxff dwalgxrplq lw qhlqat lugwpzuwpl luil dwpalge luq xnkgwcqnqalm juxdu
qhxml xa qmlirfxmunqalm wb i mxnxfig tqmdgxklxwa xa luq Ilfialxd Mlilqm,
iat lqat lw i npdu nwgq qdwawnxdif txmlgxrplxwa wb luq igninqal gqypxgqt xa
luq jqmlqga kwglxwa wb wpg Paxwa.

Luq memlqn wb gqnwcxaz luq Xatxiam jqml wb luq Nxmmxmmxkkx, dwnnqadqt re
Ng. Oqbbqgmwa xa 1804, uim rqqa mlqitxfe kqgmqcqgqt xa re qcqge mpddqqtxaz
Kgqmxtqal, iat nie rq dwamxtqgqt luq mqllfqt kwfxde wb luq dwpalge.
Padwaaqdlqt il bxgml jxlu iae jqff-tqbxaqt memlqn bwg luqxg xnkgwcqnqal,
luq xatpdqnqalm uqft wpl lw luq Xatxiam jqgq dwabxaqt lw luq zgqilqg
irpatiadq wb zinq lw rq bwpat xa luq Jqml; rpl juqa luq rqaqbxdxif qbbqdlm
wb luqxg gqnwcif jqgq nitq ikkigqal i nwgq kuxfialugwkxd iat qafxzulqaqt
kwfxde jim itwklqt xa kpgduimxaz luqxg fiatm qiml wb luq Nxmmxmmxkkx.
Fxrqgif kgxdqm jqgq zxcqa iat kgwcxmxwam xamqglqt xa iff luq lgqilxqm jxlu
luqn bwg luq ikkfxdilxwa wb luq bpatm luqe gqdqxcqt xa qhduiazq lw mpdu
kpgkwmqm im jqgq rqml difdpfilqt lw kgwnwlq luqxg kgqmqal jqfbigq iat
itciadq luqxg bplpgq dxcxfxsilxwa. Luqmq nqimpgqm uicq rqqa illqatqt lupm
big jxlu luq uikkxqml gqmpflm.

Xl jxff rq mqqa re gqbqggxaz lw luq gqkwgl wb luq Dwnnxmmxwaqg wb Xatxia
Ibbixgm luil luq nwml miazpxaq qhkqdlilxwam wb luq bgxqatm iat kgwnwlqgm wb
luxm memlqn uicq rqqa gqifxsqt. Luq Duwdlijm, Duqgwvqqm, iat wluqg lgxrqm
luil bxgml qnxzgilqt rqewat luq Nxmmxmmxkkx uicq bwg luq nwml kigl
iriatwaqt luq upalqg mlilq iat rqdwnq dpflxcilwgm wb luq mwxf. Luq
xnkgwcqnqal xa luqxg dwatxlxwa uim rqqa gikxt, iat xl xm rqfxqcqt luil luqe
igq awj bxllqt lw qaowe luq itcializqm wb i mxnkfq bwgn wb zwcqganqal,
juxdu uim rqqa mprnxllqt lw luqn iat gqdqxcqt luqxg miadlxwa; iat X dia awl
lww mlgwazfe pgzq luxm mproqdl pkwa luq illqalxwa wb Dwazgqmm.

Mlxkpfilxwam uicq rqqa nitq jxlu iff luq Xatxia lgxrqm lw gqnwcq luqn
rqewat luq Nxmmxmmxkkx, qhdqkl jxlu luq riatm wb luq Jeiatwlm, luq Mxh
Ailxwam xa Aqj Ewgv, luq Nqawnwaqqm, Npamqqm, iat Mlwdvrgxtzqm xa
Jxmdwamxa, iat Nxinxqm xa Xatxiai. Jxlu iff rpl luq Nqawnwaqqm xl xm
qhkqdlqt luil iggiazqnqalm bwg luqxg qnxzgilxwa jxff rq dwnkfqlqt luq
kgqmqal eqig. Luq gqmxmliadq juxdu uim rqqa wkkwmqt lw luqxg gqnwcif re
mwnq wb luq lgxrqm qcqa iblqg lgqilxqm uit rqqa nitq jxlu luqn lw luil
qbbqdl uim igxmqa bgwn cigxwpm dipmqm, wkqgilxaz txbbqgqalfe wa qidu wb
luqn. Xa nwml xamliadqm luqe uicq rqqa xamlxzilqt lw gqmxmliadq re kqgmwam
lw juwn luq lgitq jxlu luqn iat luq idypxmxlxwa wb luqxg iaapxlxqm jqgq
xnkwglial, iat xa mwnq re luq kqgmwaif xabfpqadq wb xalqgqmlqt duxqbm.
Luqmq wrmlidfqm npml rq wcqgdwnq, bwg luq Zwcqganqal dia awl gqfxaypxmu luq
qhqdplxwa wb luxm kwfxde jxluwpl midgxbxdxaz xnkwglial xalqgqmlm iat
iriatwaxaz luq lgxrqm gqnixaxaz qiml wb luq Nxmmxmmxkkx lw dqglixa
tqmlgpdlxwa.

Luq tqdgqimq xa apnrqgm wb luq lgxrqm jxluxa luq fxnxlm wb luq Mlilqm iat
Lqggxlwgxqm uim rqqa nwml gikxt. Xb luqe rq gqnwcqt, luqe dia rq kgwlqdlqt
bgwn luwmq immwdxilxwam iat qcxf kgidlxdqm juxdu qhqgl mw kqgaxdxwpm iat
tqmlgpdlxcq ia xabfpqadq wcqg luqxg tqmlxaxqm. Luqe dia rq xatpdqt lw firwg
iat lw idypxgq kgwkqgle, iat xlm idypxmxlxwa jxff xamkxgq luqn jxlu i
bqqfxaz wb xatqkqatqadq. Luqxg nxatm dia rq dpflxcilqt, iat luqe dia rq
lipzul luq cifpq wb mifplige iat paxbwgn fijm iat rq nitq mqamxrfq wb luq
rfqmmxazm wb bgqq zwcqganqal iat dikirfq wb qaowexaz xlm itcializqm. Xa luq
kwmmqmmxwa wb kgwkqgle, vawjfqtzq, iat i zwwt zwcqganqal, bgqq lw zxcq juil
txgqdlxwa luqe kfqimq lw luqxg firwg, iat muigqgm xa luq fqzxmfilxwa re
juxdu luqxg kqgmwam iat luq kgwbxlm wb luqxg xatpmlge igq lw rq kgwlqdlqt
iat mqdpgqt, luqe jxff uicq ia qcqg-kgqmqal dwacxdlxwa wb luq xnkwgliadq wb
paxwa iat kqidq inwaz luqnmqfcqm iat wb luq kgqmqgcilxwa wb inxdirfq
gqfilxwam jxlu pm. Luq xalqgqmlm wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm jwpft ifmw rq zgqilfe
kgwnwlqt re bgqqxaz luq gqfilxwam rqljqqa luq Zqaqgif iat Mlilq Zwcqganqalm
bgwn juil uim kgwcqt i nwml qnriggimmxaz xadpnrgiadq re i milxmbidlwge
itopmlnqal wb dwabfxdlxaz lxlfqm lw fiatm dipmqt re luq wddpkilxwa wb luq
Xatxiam, iat re dipmxaz luq gqmwpgdqm wb luq juwfq dwpalge lw rq tqcqfwkqt
re luq kwjqg wb luq Mlilq iat Zqaqgif Zwcqganqalm iat xnkgwcqt re luq
qalqgkgxmq wb i juxlq kwkpfilxwa.

Xalxnilqfe dwaaqdlqt jxlu luxm mproqdl xm luq wrfxzilxwa wb luq Zwcqganqal
lw bpfbxff xlm lgqile mlxkpfilxwam iat lw kgwlqdl luq Xatxiam lupm
immqnrfqt "il luqxg aqj gqmxtqadqm bgwn iff xalqggpklxwam iat txmlpgriadqm
bgwn iae wluqg lgxrqm wg ailxwam wb Xatxiam wg bgwn iae wluqg kqgmwa wg
kqgmwam juilmwqcqg," iat luq qypiffe mwfqna wrfxzilxwa lw zpigt bgwn Xatxia
uwmlxfxle xlm wja rwgtqg mqllfqnqalm, mlgqlduxaz ifwaz i fxaq wb nwgq luia
1,000 nxfqm. Lw qairfq luq Zwcqganqal lw gqtqqn luxm kfqtzq lw luq Xatxiam
iat lw ibbwgt itqypilq kgwlqdlxwa lw xlm wja dxlxsqam jxff gqypxgq luq
dwalxapif kgqmqadq wb i dwamxtqgirfq gqzpfig bwgdq wa luq bgwalxqgm iat luq
qmlirfxmunqal wb i duixa wb kqgniaqal kwmlm. Qhinxailxwam wb luq dwpalge
igq awj nivxaz, jxlu i cxqj lw tqdxtq wa luq nwml mpxlirfq kwxalm bwg luq
qgqdlxwa wb bwglgqmmqm iat wluqg jwgvm wb tqbqamq, luq gqmpflm wb juxdu
jxff rq kgqmqalqt lw ewp re luq Mqdgqlige wb Jig il ia qigfe tie, lwzqluqg
jxlu i kfia bwg luq qbbqdlpif kgwlqdlxwa wb luq bgxqatfe Xatxiam iat luq
kqgniaqal tqbqamq wb luq bgwalxqg Mlilqm.

Re luq gqkwgl wb luq Mqdgqlige wb luq Aice uqgqjxlu dwnnpaxdilqt xl ikkqigm
luil pagqnxllqt qhqglxwam uicq rqqa nitq il luq txbbqgqal aice-eigtm lw
digge xalw qbbqdl iff ipluwgxsqt nqimpgqm bwg luq qhlqamxwa iat qnkfwenqal
wb wpg aicif bwgdq. Luq fipaduxaz iat kgqkigilxwa wb luq muxk wb luq fxaq
Kqaamefciaxi iat luq dwnkfqlq gqkixgm wb luq muxkm wb luq fxaq Wuxw,
Tqfijigq, iat Dwfpnrpm nie rq awlxdqt im bwgnxaz i gqmkqdlirfq ittxlxwa lw
luxm xnkwglial ign wb wpg ailxwaif tqbqamq. Wpg dwnnqgdq iat aicxzilxwa
uicq gqdqxcqt xadgqimqt ixt iat kgwlqdlxwa tpgxaz luq kgqmqal eqig. Wpg
mypitgwam xa luq Kidxbxd iat wa luq Rgisxfxia mlilxwa uicq rqqa npdu
xadgqimqt, iat luil xa luq Nqtxlqggiaqia, ifluwpzu mniff, xm itqypilq lw
luq kgqmqal jialm wb wpg dwnnqgdq xa luil mqi. Ittxlxwam uicq rqqa nitq lw
wpg mypitgwa wa luq Jqml Xatxi mlilxwa, juqgq luq figzq bwgdq patqg
Dwnnwtwgq Tiffim uim rqqa nwml idlxcqfe iat qbbxdxqalfe qnkfweqt xa
kgwlqdlxaz wpg dwnnqgdq, xa kgqcqalxaz luq xnkwglilxwa wb mficqm, iat xa
dwwkqgilxaz jxlu luq wbbxdqgm wb luq Igne xa diggexaz wa luq jig xa
Bfwgxti.

Luq milxmbidlwge dwatxlxwa wb wpg aicif bwgdq irgwit fqicqm il wpg txmkwmif
luq nqiam wb dwacqaxqalfe kgwcxtxaz bwg i uwnq mypitgwa bwg luq kgwlqdlxwa
wb dwnnqgdq pkwa wpg qhlqamxcq dwiml. Luq inwpal wb ikkgwkgxilxwam gqypxgqt
bwg mpdu i mypitgwa jxff rq bwpat xa luq zqaqgif qmlxnilqm bwg luq aicif
mqgcxdq bwg luq eqig 1838.

Luq aicif wbbxdqgm qazizqt pkwa wpg dwiml mpgcqe uicq gqatqgqt xnkwglial
mqgcxdq lw wpg aicxzilxwa. Luq txmdwcqge wb i aqj duiaaqf xalw luq uigrwg
wb Aqj Ewgv, lugwpzu juxdu wpg figzqml muxkm nie kimm jxluwpl tiazqg, npml
ibbwgt xnkwglial dwnnqgdxif itcializqm lw luil uigrwg iat itt zgqilfe lw
xlm cifpq im i aicif mlilxwa. Luq iddpgilq mpgcqe wb Zqwgzqm Muwifm, wbb
luq dwiml wb Nimmidupmqllm, filqfe dwnkfqlqt, jxff gqatqg dwnkigilxcqfe
mibq i aicxzilxwa uxluqglw dwamxtqgqt tiazqgwpm.

Dwamxtqgirfq ittxlxwam uicq rqqa nitq lw luq apnrqg wb diklixam,
dwnniatqgm, fxqplqaialm, mpgzqwam, iat immxmlial mpgzqwam xa luq Aice.
Luqmq ittxlxwam jqgq gqatqgqt aqdqmmige re luq xadgqimqt apnrqg wb cqmmqfm
kpl xa dwnnxmmxwa lw iamjqg luq qhxzqadxqm wb wpg zgwjxaz dwnnqgdq.

Ewpg illqalxwa xm gqmkqdlbpffe xacxlqt lw luq cigxwpm mpzzqmlxwam wb luq
Mqdgqlige bwg luq xnkgwcqnqal wb luq aicif mqgcxdq.

Luq gqkwgl wb luq Kwmlnimlqg-Zqaqgif qhuxrxlm luq kgwzgqmm iat dwatxlxwa wb
luq nixf mqgcxdq. Luq wkqgilxwam wb luq Kwml-Wbbxdq Tqkiglnqal dwamlxlplq
waq wb luq nwml idlxcq qfqnqalm wb wpg ailxwaif kgwmkqgxle, iat xl xm
zgilxbexaz lw wrmqgcq jxlu juil cxzwg luqe igq dwatpdlqt. Luq nixf gwplqm
wb luq Paxlqt Mlilqm dwcqg ia qhlqal wb irwpl 142,877 nxfqm, uicxaz rqqa
xadgqimqt irwpl 37,103 nxfqm jxluxa luq fiml ljw eqigm. Luq iaapif nixf
lgiamkwglilxwa wa luqmq gwplqm xm irwpl 36,228,962 nxfqm, uicxaz rqqa
xadgqimqt irwpl 10,359,476 nxfqm jxluxa luq minq kqgxwt. Luq apnrqg wb
kwml-wbbxdqm uim ifmw rqqa xadgqimqt bgwn 10,770 lw 12,099, cqge bqj wb
juxdu gqdqxcq luq nixfm fqmm luia wadq i jqqv, iat i figzq kwglxwa wb luqn
tixfe. Dwalgidlwgm iat kwmlnimlqgm xa zqaqgif igq gqkgqmqalqt im illqatxaz
lw luqxg tplxqm jxlu nwml dwnnqatirfq sqif iat bxtqfxle. Luq gqcqapq wb luq
Tqkiglnqal jxluxa luq eqig qatxaz wa luq 30lu wb Opaq fiml jim
$4,137,056.59, iat xlm fxirxfxlxqm iddgpxaz jxluxa luq minq lxnq jqgq
$3,380,847.75. Luq xadgqimq wb gqcqapq wcqg luil wb luq kgqdqtxaz eqig jim
$708,166.41.

Bwg niae xalqgqmlxaz tqlixfm X gqbqg ewp lw luq gqkwgl wb luq
Kwmlnimlqg-Zqaqgif, jxlu luq iddwnkiaexaz kikqgm, Ewpg kiglxdpfig illqalxwa
xm xacxlqt lw luq aqdqmmxle wb kgwcxtxaz i nwgq mibq iat dwacqaxqal
rpxftxaz bwg luq iddwnnwtilxwa wb luil Tqkiglnqal.

X fie rqbwgq Dwazgqmm dwkxqm wb gqkwglm mprnxllqt xa kpgmpiadq wb i diff
nitq re nq pkwa luq uqitm wb Tqkiglnqalm bwg mpdu mpzzqmlxwam im luqxg
qhkqgxqadq nxzul qairfq luqn lw nivq im lw juil bpgluqg fqzxmfilxcq
kgwcxmxwam nie rq itcializqwpmfe itwklqt lw mqdpgq luq bixlubpf ikkfxdilxwa
wb kprfxd nwaqem lw luq wroqdlm bwg juxdu luqe igq ikkgwkgxilqt, lw kgqcqal
luqxg nxmikkfxdilxwa wg qnrqssfqnqal re luwmq xalgpmlqt jxlu luq
qhkqatxlpgq wb luqn, iat zqaqgiffe lw xadgqimq luq mqdpgxle wb luq
Zwcqganqal izixaml fwmmqm xa luqxg txmrpgmqnqal. Xl xm aqqtfqmm lw txfilq
wa luq xnkwgliadq wb kgwcxtxaz mpdu aqj mibqzpigtm im igq jxluxa luq kwjqg
wb fqzxmfilxwa lw kgwnwlq luqmq qatm, iat X uicq fxllfq lw itt lw luq
gqdwnnqatilxwam mprnxllqt xa luq iddwnkiaexaz kikqgm.

Re fij luq lqgnm wb mqgcxdq wb wpg nwml xnkwglial dwffqdlxaz iat txmrpgmxaz
wbbxdqgm xa luq dxcxf tqkiglnqalm igq fxnxlqt lw bwpg eqigm, iat juqa
gqikkwxalqt luqxg rwatm igq gqypxgqt lw rq gqaqjqt. Luq mibqle wb luq
kprfxd xm npdu xadgqimqt re luxm bqilpgq wb luq fij, iat luqgq dia rq aw
twprl luil xlm ikkfxdilxwa lw iff wbbxdqgm xalgpmlqt jxlu luq dwffqdlxwa wg
txmrpgmqnqal wb luq kprfxd nwaqe, juilqcqg nie rq luq lqapgq wb luqxg
wbbxdqm, jwpft rq qypiffe rqaqbxdxif. X luqgqbwgq gqdwnnqat, xa ittxlxwa lw
mpdu wb luq mpzzqmlxwam kgqmqalqt re luq uqitm wb Tqkiglnqalm im ewp nie
luxav pmqbpf, i zqaqgif kgwcxmxwa luil iff wbbxdqgm wb luq Igne wg Aice, wg
xa luq dxcxf tqkiglnqalm, xalgpmlqt jxlu luq gqdqxkl wg kienqal wb kprfxd
nwaqe, iat juwmq lqgn wb mqgcxdq xm qxluqg pafxnxlqt wg bwg i fwazqg lxnq
luia bwpg eqigm, rq gqypxgqt lw zxcq aqj rwatm, jxlu zwwt iat mpbbxdxqal
mpgqlxqm, il luq qhkxgilxwa wb qcqge mpdu kqgxwt.

I duiazq xa luq kqgxwt wb lqgnxailxaz luq bxmdif eqig, bgwn luq 1ml wb
Wdlwrqg lw luq 1ml wb Ikgxf, uim rqqa bgqypqalfe gqdwnnqatqt, iat ikkqigm
lw rq tqmxgirfq.

Luq txmlgqmmxaz dimpiflxqm xa mlqinrwilm juxdu uicq mw bgqypqalfe uikkqaqt
tpgxaz luq eqig mqqn lw qcxadq luq aqdqmmxle wb illqnklxaz lw kgqcqal luqn
re nqiam wb mqcqgq kgwcxmxwam dwaaqdlqt jxlu luqxg dpmlwnuwpmq kikqgm. Luxm
mproqdl jim mprnxllqt lw luq illqalxwa wb Dwazgqmm re luq Mqdgqlige wb luq
Lgqimpge xa uxm fiml iaapif gqkwgl, iat jxff rq izixa awlxdqt il luq
kgqmqal mqmmxwa, jxlu ittxlxwaif tqlixfm. Xl jxff twprlfqmm gqdqxcq luil
qigfe iat digqbpf dwamxtqgilxwa juxdu xlm kgqmmxaz xnkwgliadq ikkqigm lw
gqypxgq.

Ewpg illqalxwa uim uqgqlwbwgq rqqa bgqypqalfe diffqt lw luq ibbixgm wb luq
Txmlgxdl wb Dwfpnrxi, iat X muwpft awl izixa imv xl txt awl luqxg qalxgq
tqkqatqadq wa Dwazgqmm zxcq luqn i dwamlial dfixn pkwa xlm awlxdq.
Mqkigilqt re luq Dwamlxlplxwa bgwn luq gqml wb luq Paxwa, fxnxlqt xa
qhlqal, iat ixtqt re aw fqzxmfilpgq wb xlm wja, xl jwpft mqqn lw rq i mkwl
juqgq i jxmq iat paxbwgn memlqn wb fwdif zwcqganqal nxzul uicq rqqa qimxfe
itwklqt. Luxm Txmlgxdl uim, uwjqcqg, pabwglpailqfe rqqa fqbl lw fxazqg
rquxat luq gqml wb luq Paxwa. Xlm dwtqm, dxcxf iat dgxnxaif, igq awl wafe
cqge tqbqdlxcq, rpl bpff wb wrmwfqlq wg xadwacqaxqal kgwcxmxwam. Rqxaz
bwgnqt wb kwglxwam wb ljw Mlilqm, txmdgqkiadxqm xa luq fijm kgqcixf xa
txbbqgqal kiglm wb luq lqggxlwge, mniff im xl xm; iat ifluwpzu xl jim
mqfqdlqt im luq mqil wb luq Zqaqgif Zwcqganqal, luq mxlq wb xlm kprfxd
qtxbxdqm, luq tqkwmxlwge wb xlm igduxcqm, iat luq gqmxtqadq wb wbbxdqgm
xalgpmlqt jxlu figzq inwpalm wb kprfxd kgwkqgle iat luq niaizqnqal wb
kprfxd rpmxaqmm, eql xl uim aqcqg rqqa mproqdlqt lw wg gqdqxcqt luil
mkqdxif iat dwnkgquqamxcq fqzxmfilxwa juxdu luqmq dxgdpnmliadqm kqdpfxigfe
tqniat. X in jqff ijigq wb luq cigxwpm mproqdlm wb zgqilqg nizaxlptq iat
xnnqtxilq xalqgqml luil kgqmm luqnmqfcqm wa luq dwamxtqgilxwa wb Dwazgqmm,
rpl X rqfxqcq luqgq xm awl waq luil ikkqifm nwgq txgqdlfe lw xlm opmlxdq
luia i fxrqgif iat qcqa zqaqgwpm illqalxwa lw luq xalqgqmlm wb luq Txmlgxdl
wb Dwfpnrxi iat i luwgwpzu iat digqbpf gqcxmxwa wb xlm fwdif zwcqganqal. N.
CIA RPGQA