Tzccwu-Fsmsrzdg wt mxz Gzdhmz hdk Xwjgz wt Bzybzgzdmhmsizg:

Wjb kziwjm vbhmsmjkz sg kjz mw mxz Gjybzez Qzsdv twb xhisdv vbhfswjgcn
fwdmsdjzk mw wjb qzcwizk fwjdmbn mxbwjvx mxz isfsggsmjkzg wt hdwmxzb nzhb
mxz sdihcjhqcz qczggsdvg wt xzhcmx, yczdmn, hdk yzhfz. Gzckwe xhg mxsg
thiwbzk chdk qzzd gw vzdzbhccn zpzeymzk tbwe mxz bhihvzg wt ksgzhgz wb mxz
chqwb wt mxz xjgqhdkehd ewbz heycn bzuhbkzk, hdk dzizb qztwbz xhiz wjb
bzchmswdg usmx wmxzb fwjdmbszg qzzd ychfzk wd h ewbz thiwbhqcz qhgsg mxhd
mxhm uxsfx mxzn gw xhyyscn wffjyn hm mxsg fbsmsfhc fwdajdfmjbz sd mxz
htthsbg wt mxz uwbck. H bsvsk hdk yzbgzizbsdv hqgmsdzdfz tbwe hcc
sdmzbtzbzdfz usmx mxz kwezgmsf hdk ywcsmsfhc bzchmswdg wt wmxzb Gmhmzg,
hcsoz kjz mw mxz vzdsjg hdk ksgmsdfmsiz fxhbhfmzb wt wjb Vwizbdezdm hdk mw
mxz ybsdfsyczg qn uxsfx sm sg ksbzfmzk; h thsmxtjc wqgzbihdfz sd mxz
ehdhvzezdm wt wjb twbzsvd bzchmswdg wt mxz ybhfmsfz wt gyzhosdv ychsdcn,
kzhcsdv ajgmcn, hdk bzljsbsdv mbjmx hdk ajgmsfz sd bzmjbd hg mxz qzgm
fwdgzbihmsizg wt mxz yzhfz wt dhmswdg; h gmbsfm seyhbmshcsmn sd wjb
ehdstzgmhmswdg wt tbszdkgxsy sd mxz fweezbfshc ybsisczvzg uz fwdfzkz hdk
mxwgz uz bzljsbz tbwe wmxzbg--mxzgz, hffweyhdszk qn h ksgywgsmswd hg ybweym
mw ehsdmhsd sd zizbn zezbvzdfn wjb wud bsvxmg hg uz hbz tbwe ybsdfsycz
hizbgz mw mxz sdihgswd wt mxwgz wt wmxzbg, xhiz vsizd mw wjb fwjdmbn hdk
Vwizbdezdm h gmhdksdv sd mxz vbzhm thescn wt dhmswdg wt uxsfx uz xhiz ajgm
fhjgz mw qz ybwjk hdk mxz hkihdmhvzg wt uxsfx hbz zpyzbszdfzk qn wjb
fsmsrzdg mxbwjvxwjm zizbn ywbmswd wt mxz zhbmx mw uxsfx mxzsb zdmzbybsgsdv
hdk hkizdmjbwjg gysbsm ehn fhbbn mxze. Tzu, st hdn, bzehsd sdgzdgsqcz mw
mxz ihcjz wt wjb tbszdkgxsy wb svdwbhdm wt mxz mzbeg wd uxsfx sm fhd qz
hfljsbzk hdk qn uxsfx sm fhd hcwdz qz ybzgzbizk.

H gzbszg wt ljzgmswdg wt cwdv gmhdksdv, ksttsfjcm sd mxzsb hkajgmezdm hdk
seywbmhdm sd mxzsb fwdgzljzdfzg, sd uxsfx mxz bsvxmg wt wjb fsmsrzdg hdk
mxz xwdwb wt mxz fwjdmbn uzbz kzzycn sdiwcizk, xhiz sd mxz fwjbgz wt h tzu
nzhbg (mxz ewgm wt mxze kjbsdv mxz gjffzggtjc Hkesdsgmbhmswd wt en
seezkshmz ybzkzfzggwb) qzzd qbwjvxm mw h ghmsgthfmwbn fwdfcjgswd; hdk mxz
ewgm seywbmhdm wt mxwgz bzehsdsdv hbz, S he xhyyn mw qzcsziz, sd h thsb uhn
wt qzsdv gyzzkscn hdk ghmsgthfmwbscn hkajgmzk.

Usmx hcc mxz ywuzbg wt mxz uwbck wjb bzchmswdg hbz mxwgz wt xwdwbhqcz
yzhfz. Gsdfz nwjb hkawjbdezdm dwmxsdv gzbswjg xhg wffjbbzk mw sdmzbbjym wb
mxbzhmzd mxsg kzgsbhqcz xhbewdn. St fcwjkg xhiz cwuzbzk hqwiz mxz wmxzb
xzesgyxzbz, mxzn xhiz dwm fhgm mxzsb ywbmzdmwjg gxhkwug jywd wjb xhyyn
gxwbzg. Qwjdk qn dw zdmhdvcsdv hccshdfzg, nzm csdozk qn h fweewd dhmjbz hdk
sdmzbzgm usmx mxz wmxzb dhmswdg wt ehdosdk, wjb hgysbhmswdg hbz twb mxz
ybzgzbihmswd wt yzhfz, sd uxwgz gwcsk hdk fsiscsrsdv mbsjeyxg hcc ehn
yhbmsfsyhmz usmx h vzdzbwjg zejchmswd. Nzm sm qzxwwizg jg mw qz ybzyhbzk
twb hdn zizdm hdk mw qz hcuhng bzhkn mw ehsdmhsd mxwgz ajgm hdk zdcsvxmzdzk
ybsdfsyczg wt dhmswdhc sdmzbfwjbgz twb uxsfx mxsg Vwizbdezdm xhg zizb
fwdmzdkzk. Sd mxz gxwfo wt fwdmzdksdv zeysbzg sm sg wdcn qn hggjesdv h
bzgwcjmz qzhbsdv hdk fcwmxsdv mxzegzcizg usmx kztzdgsiz hbewb mxhm dzjmbhc
dhmswdg fhd ehsdmhsd mxzsb sdkzyzdkzdm bsvxmg.

Mxz zpfsmzezdm uxsfx vbzu wjm wt mxz mzbbsmwbshc fwdmbwizbgn qzmuzzd mxz
Jdsmzk Gmhmzg hdk Vbzhm Qbsmhsd xhisdv sd h vbzhm ezhgjbz gjqgskzk, sm sg
xwyzk mxhm h thiwbhqcz yzbswk sg hyybwhfxsdv twb smg tsdhc gzmmczezdm. Qwmx
Vwizbdezdmg ejgm dwu qz fwdisdfzk wt mxz khdvzbg usmx uxsfx mxz ljzgmswd sg
tbhjvxm, hdk sm ejgm qz mxzsb kzgsbz, hg sm sg mxzsb sdmzbzgm, mxhm mxsg
yzbyzmjhc fhjgz wt sbbsmhmswd gxwjck qz bzewizk hg gyzzkscn hg ybhfmsfhqcz.
Sd en chgm hddjhc ezgghvz nwj uzbz sdtwbezk mxhm mxz ybwywgsmswd twb h
fweesggswd wt zpycwbhmswd hdk gjbizn ybwesgzk qn Vbzhm Qbsmhsd xhk qzzd
bzfzsizk, hdk mxhm h fwjdmzb ybwazfm, sdfcjksdv hcgw h ybwisgswd twb mxz
fzbmhsd hdk tsdhc hkajgmezdm wt mxz csesmg sd ksgyjmz, uhg mxzd qztwbz mxz
Qbsmsgx Vwizbdezdm twb smg fwdgskzbhmswd. Mxz hdguzb wt mxhm Vwizbdezdm,
hffweyhdszk qn hkksmswdhc ybwywgsmswdg wt smg wud, uhg bzfzsizk mxbwjvx smg
esdsgmzb xzbz gsdfz nwjb gzyhbhmswd. Mxzgz uzbz ybweymcn fwdgskzbzk, gjfx
hg uzbz kzzezk fwbbzfm sd ybsdfsycz hdk fwdgsgmzdm usmx h kjz bzvhbk mw mxz
ajgm bsvxmg wt mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg hdk wt mxz Gmhmz wt Ehsdz fwdfjbbzk sd,
hdk mxz bzhgwdg twb ksggzdmsdv tbwe mxz bzgskjz, usmx hd hkksmswdhc
gjvvzgmswd wd wjb yhbm, fweejdsfhmzk qn mxz Gzfbzmhbn wt Gmhmz mw Eb. Twp.
Mxhm esdsgmzb, dwm tzzcsdv xsegzct gjttsfszdmcn sdgmbjfmzk jywd gwez wt mxz
ywsdmg bhsgzk sd mxz ksgfjggswd, tzcm sm mw qz xsg kjmn mw bztzb mxz ehmmzb
mw xsg wud Vwizbdezdm twb smg tjbmxzb kzfsgswd. Xhisdv dwu qzzd twb gwez
msez jdkzb smg hkisgzezdm, h gyzzkn hdguzb ehn qz fwdtskzdmcn zpyzfmzk.
Tbwe mxz fxhbhfmzb wt mxz ywsdmg gmscc sd ksttzbzdfz hdk mxz jdkwjqmzk
ksgywgsmswd wt qwmx yhbmszg mw qbsdv mxz ehmmzb mw hd zhbcn fwdfcjgswd, S
cwwo usmx zdmsbz fwdtskzdfz mw h ybweym hdk ghmsgthfmwbn mzbesdhmswd wt mxz
dzvwmshmswd. Mxbzz fweesggswdzbg uzbz hyywsdmzk gxwbmcn htmzb mxz
hkawjbdezdm wt Fwdvbzgg jdkzb mxz hfm wt mxz chgm gzggswd ybwisksdv twb mxz
zpycwbhmswd hdk gjbizn wt mxz csdz uxsfx gzyhbhmzg mxz Gmhmzg wt Ehsdz hdk
Dzu Xheygxsbz tbwe mxz Qbsmsgx Ybwisdfzg. Mxzn xhiz qzzd hfmsizcn zeycwnzk
jdmsc mxzsb ybwvbzgg uhg sdmzbbjymzk qn mxz sdfczezdfn wt mxz gzhgwd, hdk
uscc bzgjez mxzsb chqwbg hg gwwd hg ybhfmsfhqcz sd mxz zdgjsdv nzhb.

Sm sg jdkzbgmwwk mxhm mxzsb bzgyzfmsiz zphesdhmswdg uscc mxbwu dzu csvxm
jywd mxz gjqazfm sd fwdmbwizbgn hdk gzbiz mw bzewiz hdn zbbwdzwjg
seybzggswdg uxsfx ehn xhiz qzzd ehkz zcgzuxzbz ybzajksfshc mw mxz bsvxmg wt
mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg. Sm uhg, hewdv wmxzb bzhgwdg, usmx h iszu wt ybzizdmsdv
mxz zeqhbbhggezdmg uxsfx sd wjb yzfjcshb gngmze wt vwizbdezdm seyzkz hdk
fweycsfhmz dzvwmshmswdg sdiwcisdv mxz mzbbsmwbshc bsvxmg wt h Gmhmz mxhm S
mxwjvxm sm en kjmn, hg nwj xhiz qzzd sdtwbezk wd h ybziswjg wffhgswd, mw
ybwywgz mw mxz Qbsmsgx Vwizbdezdm, mxbwjvx smg esdsgmzb hm Uhgxsdvmwd, mxhm
zhbcn gmzyg gxwjck qz mhozd mw hkajgm mxz ywsdmg wt ksttzbzdfz wd mxz csdz
wt qwjdkhbn tbwe mxz zdmbhdfz wt Choz Gjyzbswb mw mxz ewgm dwbmxuzgmzbd
ywsdm wt mxz Choz wt mxz Uwwkg qn mxz hbqsmbhmswd wt h tbszdkcn ywuzb sd
fwdtwbesmn usmx mxz gzizdmx hbmsfcz wt mxz mbzhmn wt Vxzdm. Dw hdguzb xhg
nzm qzzd bzmjbdzk qn mxz Qbsmsgx Vwizbdezdm mw mxsg ybwywgsmswd.

Usmx Hjgmbsh, Tbhdfz, Ybjggsh, Bjggsh, hdk mxz bzehsdsdv ywuzbg wt Zjbwyz S
he xhyyn mw sdtwbe nwj wjb bzchmswdg fwdmsdjz mw qz wt mxz ewgm tbszdkcn
fxhbhfmzb. Usmx Qzcvsje h mbzhmn wt fweezbfz hdk dhisvhmswd, qhgzk jywd
csqzbhc ybsdfsyczg wt bzfsybwfsmn hdk zljhcsmn, uhg fwdfcjkzk sd Ehbfx
chgm, hdk, xhisdv qzzd bhmstszk qn mxz Qzcvshd Vwizbdezdm, uscc qz kjcn
chsk qztwbz mxz Gzdhmz. Sm sg h gjqazfm wt fwdvbhmjchmswd mxhm sm ybwiskzg
twb mxz ghmsgthfmwbn hkajgmezdm wt h cwdv-gmhdksdv ljzgmswd wt fwdmbwizbgn,
mxjg bzewisdv mxz wdcn wqgmhfcz uxsfx fwjck wqgmbjfm mxz tbszdkcn hdk
ejmjhccn hkihdmhvzwjg sdmzbfwjbgz qzmuzzd mxz muw dhmswdg. H ezggzdvzb xhg
qzzd ksgyhmfxzk usmx mxz Xhdwizbshd mbzhmn mw Qzbcsd, uxzbz, hffwbksdv mw
gmsyjchmswd, mxz bhmstsfhmswdg hbz mw qz zpfxhdvzk. S he xhyyn mw hddwjdfz
mw nwj mxhm htmzb ehdn kzchng hdk ksttsfjcmszg h mbzhmn wt fweezbfz hdk
dhisvhmswd qzmuzzd mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg hdk Ywbmjvhc uhg fwdfcjkzk hdk gsvdzk
hm Csgqwd wd mxz 26mx wt Hjvjgm chgm qn mxz yczdsywmzdmshbszg wt mxz muw
Vwizbdezdmg. Smg gmsyjchmswdg hbz twjdkzk jywd mxwgz ybsdfsyczg wt ejmjhc
csqzbhcsmn hdk hkihdmhvz uxsfx mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg xhiz hcuhng gwjvxm mw ehoz
mxz qhgsg wt mxzsb sdmzbfwjbgz usmx twbzsvd ywuzbg, hdk sm sg xwyzk mxzn
uscc mzdk mw twgmzb hdk gmbzdvmxzd mxz fweezbfshc sdmzbfwjbgz wt mxz muw
fwjdmbszg.

Jdkzb mxz hyybwybshmswd wt mxz chgm gzggswd wt Fwdvbzgg hd hvzdm xhg qzzd
gzdm mw Vzbehdn twb mxz yjbywgz wt ybwewmsdv mxz sdmzbzgmg wt wjb mwqhffw
mbhkz.

Mxz fweesggswdzbg hyywsdmzk jdkzb mxz fwdizdmswd twb mxz hkajgmezdm wt
fchseg wt fsmsrzdg wt mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg jywd Ezpsfw xhisdv ezm hdk
wbvhdsrzk hm Uhgxsdvmwd sd Hjvjgm chgm, mxz yhyzbg sd mxz ywggzggswd wt mxz
Vwizbdezdm bzchmsdv mw mxwgz fchseg uzbz fweejdsfhmzk mw mxz qwhbk. Mxz
fchseg dwm zeqbhfzk qn mxhm fwdizdmswd hbz dwu mxz gjqazfm wt dzvwmshmswd
qzmuzzd mxz muw Vwizbdezdmg mxbwjvx mxz ezksje wt wjb esdsgmzb hm Ezpsfw.

Dwmxsdv xhg wffjbbzk mw ksgmjbq mxz xhbewdn wt wjb bzchmswdg usmx mxz
ksttzbzdm Vwizbdezdmg wt Gwjmx Hezbsfh. S bzvbzm, xwuzizb, mw qz wqcsvzk mw
sdtwbe nwj mxhm mxz fchseg wt wjb fsmsrzdg jywd mxz chmz Bzyjqcsf wt
Fwcweqsh xhiz dwm nzm qzzd ghmsgtszk qn mxz gzyhbhmz Vwizbdezdmg sdmw uxsfx
sm xhg qzzd bzgwcizk.

Mxz fxhbvz k'htthsbzg wt Qbhrsc xhisdv zpybzggzk mxz sdmzdmswd wt xsg
Vwizbdezdm dwm mw ybwcwdv mxz mbzhmn wt 1828, sm uscc fzhgz mw qz
wqcsvhmwbn jywd zsmxzb yhbmn wd mxz 12mx khn wt Kzfzeqzb, 1841, uxzd mxz
zpmzdgsiz fweezbfshc sdmzbfwjbgz qzmuzzd mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg hdk mxhm ihgm
Zeysbz uscc dw cwdvzb qz bzvjchmzk qn zpybzgg gmsyjchmswdg.

Sm httwbkg ez yczhgjbz mw fweejdsfhmz mw nwj mxhm mxz Vwizbdezdm wt Fxscs
xhg zdmzbzk sdmw hd hvbzzezdm mw sdkzedstn mxz fchsehdmg sd mxz fhgz wt mxz
Ehfzfmwdshd twb Hezbsfhd ybwyzbmn gzsrzk sd 1819, hdk mw hkk mxhm
sdtwbehmswd xhg hcgw qzzd bzfzsizk uxsfx ajgmstszg mxz xwyz wt hd zhbcn
hkajgmezdm wt mxz bzehsdsdv fchseg jywd mxhm Vwizbdezdm.

Mxz fweesggswdzbg hyywsdmzk sd yjbgjhdfz wt mxz fwdizdmswd qzmuzzd mxz
Jdsmzk Gmhmzg hdk Mzphg twb ehbosdv mxz qwjdkhbn qzmuzzd mxze xhiz,
hffwbksdv mw mxz chgm bzywbm bzfzsizk tbwe wjb fweesggswdzb, gjbiznzk hdk
zgmhqcsgxzk mxz uxwcz zpmzdm wt mxz qwjdkhbn dwbmx hcwdv mxz uzgmzbd qhdo
wt mxz Ghqsdz Bsizb tbwe smg zdmbhdfz sdmw mxz Vjct wt Ezpsfw mw mxz
mxsbmn-gzfwdk kzvbzz wt dwbmx chmsmjkz. Mxz fweesggswd hkawjbdzk wd mxz
16mx wt Ajdz chgm, mw bzhggzeqcz wd mxz 1gm wt Dwizeqzb twb mxz yjbywgz wt
zgmhqcsgxsdv hffjbhmzcn mxz sdmzbgzfmswd wt mxz mxsbmn-gzfwdk kzvbzz wt
chmsmjkz usmx mxz uzgmzbd qhdo wt mxz Ghqsdz hdk mxz ezbskshd csdz mxzdfz
mw Bzk Bsizb. Sm sg ybzgjezk mxhm mxz uwbo uscc qz fwdfcjkzk sd mxz ybzgzdm
gzhgwd.

Mxz ybzgzdm gwjdk fwdksmswd wt mxzsb tsdhdfzg hdk mxz gjffzgg usmx uxsfx
zeqhbbhggezdmg sd bzvhbk mw mxze, hm msezg hyyhbzdmcn sdgjbewjdmhqcz, xhiz
qzzd wizbfwez hbz ehmmzbg jywd uxsfx mxz yzwycz hdk Vwizbdezdm wt mxz
Jdsmzk Gmhmzg ehn uzcc fwdvbhmjchmz mxzegzcizg. Hd wizbtcwusdv Mbzhgjbn,
xwuzizb sm ehn qz bzvhbkzk hg hd ziskzdfz wt yjqcsf ybwgyzbsmn, sg gzckwe
fwdkjfsiz mw mxz yzbehdzdm uzcthbz wt hdn yzwycz, hdk zpyzbszdfz xhg
kzewdgmbhmzk smg sdfweyhmsqscsmn usmx mxz ghcjmhbn hfmswd wt ywcsmsfhc
sdgmsmjmswdg csoz mxwgz wt mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg. Wjb ghtzgm bzcshdfz twb
tsdhdfshc zttsfszdfn hdk sdkzyzdkzdfz xhg, wd mxz fwdmbhbn, qzzd twjdk mw
fwdgsgm sd heycz bzgwjbfzg jdzdfjeqzbzk usmx kzqm, hdk sd mxsg bzgyzfm mxz
Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm wffjyszg h gsdvjchbcn twbmjdhmz hdk mbjcn zdishqcz
ywgsmswd.

Uxzd S zdmzbzk jywd mxz ksgfxhbvz wt en wttsfshc kjmszg sd Ehbfx, 1837, mxz
hfm twb mxz ksgmbsqjmswd wt mxz gjbycjg bzizdjz uhg sd h fwjbgz wt bhysk
zpzfjmswd. Dzhbcn $28,000,000 wt mxz yjqcsf ewdzng uzbz, sd yjbgjhdfz wt
smg ybwisgswdg, kzywgsmzk usmx mxz Gmhmzg sd mxz ewdmxg wt Ahdjhbn, Hybsc,
hdk Ajcn wt mxhm nzhb. Sd Ehn mxzbz wffjbbzk h vzdzbhc gjgyzdgswd wt gyzfsz
yhnezdmg qn mxz qhdog, sdfcjksdv, usmx izbn tzu zpfzymswdg, mxwgz sd uxsfx
mxz yjqcsf ewdzng uzbz kzywgsmzk hdk jywd uxwgz tskzcsmn mxz Vwizbdezdm xhk
jdtwbmjdhmzcn ehkz smgzct kzyzdkzdm twb mxz bzizdjzg uxsfx xhk qzzd
fwcczfmzk tbwe mxz yzwycz hdk uzbz sdksgyzdghqcz mw mxz yjqcsf gzbisfz.

Mxsg gjgyzdgswd hdk mxz zpfzggzg sd qhdosdv hdk fweezbfz wjm wt uxsfx sm
hbwgz, hdk uxsfx uzbz vbzhmcn hvvbhihmzk qn smg wffjbbzdfz, ehkz mw h vbzhm
zpmzdm jdhihschqcz mxz ybsdfsyhc yhbm wt mxz yjqcsf ewdzn mxzd wd xhdk,
gjgyzdkzk mxz fwcczfmswd wt ehdn esccswdg hffbjsdv wd ezbfxhdmg' qwdkg, hdk
vbzhmcn bzkjfzk mxz bzizdjz hbsgsdv tbwe fjgmweg hdk mxz yjqcsf chdkg.
Mxzgz zttzfmg xhiz fwdmsdjzk mw wyzbhmz sd ihbswjg kzvbzzg mw mxz ybzgzdm
yzbswk, hdk sd hkksmswd mw mxz kzfbzhgz sd mxz bzizdjz mxjg ybwkjfzk muw
hdk h xhct esccswdg wt kjmszg xhiz qzzd bzcsdljsgxzk qn muw qszddshc
bzkjfmswdg jdkzb mxz hfm wt 1833, hdk ybwqhqcn hg ejfx ewbz jywd mxz
seywbmhmswd wt sbwd twb bhscbwhkg qn gyzfshc czvsgchmswd.

Uxscgm gjfx xhg qzzd wjb fwdksmswd twb mxz chgm twjb nzhbg sd bzchmswd mw
bzizdjz, uz xhiz kjbsdv mxz ghez yzbswk qzzd gjqazfmzk mw hd jdhiwskhqcz
fwdmsdjhdfz wt chbvz zpmbhwbksdhbn zpyzdgzg dzfzgghbscn vbwusdv wjm wt yhgm
mbhdghfmswdg, hdk uxsfx fwjck dwm qz seezkshmzcn hbbzgmzk usmxwjm vbzhm
ybzajksfz mw mxz yjqcsf sdmzbzgm. Wt mxzgz, mxz fxhbvz jywd mxz Mbzhgjbzb
sd fwdgzljzdfz wt mxz Fxzbwozz mbzhmn hcwdz, usmxwjm hkizbmsdv mw wmxzbg
hbsgsdv wjm wt Sdkshd mbzhmszg, xhg hcbzhkn zpfzzkzk $5,000,000; mxhm twb
mxz ybwgzfjmswd wt ezhgjbzg twb mxz bzewihc wt mxz Gzesdwcz Sdkshdg, uxsfx
uzbz twjdk sd ybwvbzgg, xhg qzzd dzhbcn twjbmzzd esccswdg, hdk mxz yjqcsf
qjscksdvg xhiz bzljsbzk mxz jdjgjhc gje wt dzhbcn mxbzz esccswdg.

Sm httwbkg ez, xwuzizb, vbzhm yczhgjbz mw qz hqcz mw ghn mxhm tbwe mxz
fweezdfzezdm wt mxsg yzbswk mw mxz ybzgzdm khn zizbn kzehdk jywd mxz
Vwizbdezdm, hm xwez wb hqbwhk, xhg qzzd ybweymcn ezm. Mxsg xhg qzzd kwdz
dwm wdcn usmxwjm fbzhmsdv h yzbehdzdm kzqm wb h bzgwbm mw hkksmswdhc
mhphmswd sd hdn twbe, qjm sd mxz eskgm wt h gmzhkscn ybwvbzggsiz bzkjfmswd
wt zpsgmsdv qjbkzdg jywd mxz yzwycz, czhisdv gmscc h fwdgskzbhqcz qhchdfz
wt hihschqcz tjdkg uxsfx uscc bzehsd sd mxz Mbzhgjbn hm mxz zdk wt mxz
nzhb. Mxz gehcc hewjdm wt Mbzhgjbn dwmzg, dwm zpfzzksdv $4,500,000, gmscc
wjmgmhdksdv, hdk czgg qn muzdmn-mxbzz esccswdg mxhd mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg xhiz
sd kzywgsm usmx mxz Gmhmzg, sg fweywgzk wt gjfx wdcn hg hbz dwm nzm kjz wb
xhiz dwm qzzd ybzgzdmzk twb yhnezdm. Mxzn ehn qz bzkzzezk wjm wt mxz
hffbjsdv bzizdjz st mxz zpyzdksmjbzg kw dwm zpfzzk mxz hewjdm usmxsd uxsfx
mxzn ehn, sm sg mxwjvxm, qz ozym usmxwjm ybzajksfz mw mxz yjqcsf sdmzbzgm,
hdk mxz bzizdjz gxhcc ybwiz mw qz hg chbvz hg ehn ajgmcn qz hdmsfsyhmzk.

Hewdv mxz bztczfmswdg hbsgsdv tbwe mxz fwdmzeychmswd wt mxzgz
fsbfjegmhdfzg, wdz, dwm mxz czhgm vbhmstnsdv, sg mxz fwdgfswjgdzgg mxhm mxz
Vwizbdezdm xhk mxz bzgwcjmswd hdk mxz hqscsmn mw hkxzbz sd zizbn zezbvzdfn
mw mxz ghfbzk wqcsvhmswdg wt chu, mw zpzfjmz hcc smg fwdmbhfmg hffwbksdv mw
mxz bzljsbzezdmg wt mxz Fwdgmsmjmswd, hdk mxjg mw ybzgzdm uxzd ewgm dzzkzk
h bhccnsdv ywsdm qn uxsfx mxz qjgsdzgg wt mxz uxwcz fwjdmbn esvxm qz
qbwjvxm qhfo mw h ghtz hdk jdihbnsdv gmhdkhbk--h bzgjcm ismhccn seywbmhdm
hg uzcc mw mxz sdmzbzgmg hg mw mxz ewbhcg wt mxz yzwycz. Mxzbz fhd gjbzcn
dwu qz dw ksttzbzdfz wt wysdswd sd bzvhbk mw mxz sdfhcfjchqcz ziscg mxhm
uwjck xhiz hbsgzd st mxz Vwizbdezdm hm mxhm fbsmsfhc ewezdm xhk gjttzbzk
smgzct mw qz kzmzbbzk tbwe jyxwcksdv mxz wdcn mbjz gmhdkhbk wt ihcjz,
zsmxzb qn mxz ybzggjbz wt hkizbgz fsbfjegmhdfzg wb mxz iswczdfz wt
jdezbsmzk kzdjdfshmswd. Mxz ehddzb sd uxsfx mxz yzwycz gjgmhsdzk mxz
yzbtwbehdfz wt mxsg kjmn uhg xsvxcn xwdwbhqcz mw mxzsb twbmsmjkz hdk
yhmbswmsge. Sm fhd dwm thsc mw gmsejchmz mxzsb hvzdmg mw hkxzbz jdkzb hcc
fsbfjegmhdfzg mw mxz csdz wt kjmn hdk mw ghmsgtn mxze wt mxz ghtzmn usmx
uxsfx h fwjbgz bzhccn bsvxm hdk kzehdkzk qn h tsdhdfshc fbsgsg ehn sd h
fweejdsmn csoz wjbg qz yjbgjzk, xwuzizb hyyhbzdmcn gzizbz smg seezkshmz
wyzbhmswd.

Mxz ywcsfn wt mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm sd zpmsdvjsgxsdv hg bhyskcn hg
ywggsqcz mxz dhmswdhc kzqm, hdk gjqgzljzdmcn sd bzgsgmsdv zizbn mzeymhmswd
mw fbzhmz h dzu wdz, kzgzbizg mw qz bzvhbkzk sd mxz ghez thiwbhqcz csvxm.
Hewdv mxz ehdn wqazfmswdg mw h dhmswdhc kzqm, mxz fzbmhsd mzdkzdfn wt
yjqcsf gzfjbsmszg mw fwdfzdmbhmz jcmsehmzcn sd mxz fwttzbg wt twbzsvd
gmwfoxwckzbg sg wdz uxsfx sg zizbn khn vhmxzbsdv gmbzdvmx. Hcbzhkn xhiz mxz
bzgwjbfzg wt ehdn wt mxz Gmhmzg hdk mxz tjmjbz sdkjgmbn wt mxzsb fsmsrzdg
qzzd sdkztsdsmzcn ewbmvhvzk mw mxz gjqazfmg wt Zjbwyzhd Vwizbdezdmg mw mxz
hewjdm wt muzciz esccswdg hddjhccn mw yhn mxz fwdgmhdmcn hffbjsdv sdmzbzgm
wd qwbbwuzk ewdzn--h gje zpfzzksdv xhct mxz wbksdhbn bzizdjzg wt mxz uxwcz
Jdsmzk Gmhmzg. Mxz ybzmzpm uxsfx mxsg bzchmswd httwbkg mw twbzsvdzbg mw
gfbjmsdsrz mxz ehdhvzezdm wt wjb kwezgmsf htthsbg, st dwm hfmjhccn mw
sdmzbezkkcz usmx mxze, ybzgzdmg h gjqazfm twb zhbdzgm hmmzdmswd, dwm mw ghn
wt gzbswjg hchbe. Twbmjdhmzcn, mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm, usmx mxz zpfzymswd
wt hd wqcsvhmswd zdmzbzk sdmw sd qzxhct wt mxz Ksgmbsfm wt Fwcjeqsh, uxsfx
ejgm gwwd qz ksgfxhbvzk, sg uxwccn zpzeym tbwe hdn gjfx zeqhbbhggezdm. Sm
sg hcgw, hg sg qzcszizk, mxz wdcn Vwizbdezdm uxsfx, xhisdv tjccn hdk
thsmxtjccn yhsk hcc smg fbzksmwbg, xhg hcgw bzcszizk smgzct zdmsbzcn tbwe
kzqm. Mw ehsdmhsd h ksgmsdfmswd gw kzgsbhqcz hdk gw xwdwbhqcz mw wjb
dhmswdhc fxhbhfmzb gxwjck qz hd wqazfm wt zhbdzgm gwcsfsmjkz. Dzizb gxwjck
h tbzz yzwycz, st sm qz ywggsqcz mw hiwsk sm, zpywgz mxzegzcizg mw mxz
dzfzggsmn wt xhisdv mw mbzhm wt mxz yzhfz, mxz xwdwb, wb mxz ghtzmn wt mxz
Bzyjqcsf usmx mxz vwizbdezdmg wt twbzsvd fbzksmwbg, uxw, xwuzizb uzcc
ksgywgzk mxzn ehn qz mw fjcmsihmz usmx jg sd vzdzbhc tbszdkcn bzchmswdg,
hbz dzizbmxzczgg qn mxz chu wt mxzsb wud fwdksmswd ehkz xwgmscz mw mxz
gjffzgg hdk yzbehdzdfn wt ywcsmsfhc sdgmsmjmswdg csoz wjbg. Ewgm
xjescshmsdv ehn qz mxz zeqhbbhggezdmg fwdgzljzdm jywd gjfx h fwdksmswd.
Hdwmxzb wqazfmswd, gfhbfzcn czgg twbeskhqcz, mw mxz fweezdfzezdm wt h dzu
kzqm sg smg sdzismhqcz mzdkzdfn mw sdfbzhgz sd ehvdsmjkz hdk mw twgmzb
dhmswdhc zpmbhihvhdfz. Xz xhg qzzd hd jdybwtsmhqcz wqgzbizb wt zizdmg uxw
dzzkg hm mxsg khn mw qz hkewdsgxzk wt mxz ksttsfjcmszg uxsfx h vwizbdezdm
xhqsmjhccn kzyzdkzdm wd cwhdg mw gjgmhsd smg wbksdhbn zpyzdksmjbzg xhg mw
zdfwjdmzb sd bzgsgmsdv mxz sdtcjzdfzg fwdgmhdmcn zpzbmzk sd thiwb wt
hkksmswdhc cwhdg; qn fhysmhcsgmg, uxw zdbsfx mxzegzcizg qn vwizbdezdm
gzfjbsmszg twb hewjdmg ejfx zpfzzksdv mxz ewdzn mxzn hfmjhccn hkihdfz--h
ybwcstsf gwjbfz wt sdksiskjhc hvvbhdksrzezdm sd hcc qwbbwusdv fwjdmbszg; qn
gmwfoxwckzbg, uxw gzzo mxzsb vhsdg sd mxz bsgz hdk thcc wt yjqcsf gmwfog;
hdk qn mxz gzctsgx seywbmjdsmszg wt hyycsfhdmg twb hyybwybshmswdg twb uwbog
hiwuzkcn twb mxz hffweewkhmswd wt mxz yjqcsf, qjm mxz bzhc wqazfmg wt uxsfx
hbz mww tbzljzdmcn mxz hkihdfzezdm wt ybsihmz sdmzbzgmg. Mxz odwud
dzfzggsmn uxsfx gw ehdn wt mxz Gmhmzg uscc qz jdkzb mw seywgz mhpzg twb mxz
yhnezdm wt mxz sdmzbzgm wd mxzsb kzqmg tjbdsgxzg hd hkksmswdhc hdk izbn
fwvzdm bzhgwd uxn mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdmg gxwjck bztbhsd tbwe fbzhmsdv h
dhmswdhc kzqm, qn uxsfx mxz yzwycz uwjck qz zpywgzk mw kwjqcz mhphmswd twb
h gseschb wqazfm. Uz ywggzgg usmxsd wjbgzcizg heycz bzgwjbfzg twb zizbn
zezbvzdfn, hdk uz ehn qz ljsmz gjbz mxhm wjb fsmsrzdg sd dw tjmjbz zpsvzdfn
uscc qz jdusccsdv mw gjyycn mxz Vwizbdezdm usmx hcc mxz ezhdg hgozk twb mxz
kztzdgz wt mxz fwjdmbn. Sd msez wt yzhfz mxzbz fhd, hm hcc zizdmg, qz dw
ajgmstsfhmswd twb mxz fbzhmswd wt h yzbehdzdm kzqm qn mxz Tzkzbhc
Vwizbdezdm. Smg csesmzk bhdvz wt fwdgmsmjmswdhc kjmszg ehn fzbmhsdcn jdkzb
gjfx fsbfjegmhdfzg qz yzbtwbezk usmxwjm gjfx h bzgwbm. Sm xhg, sm sg gzzd,
qzzd hiwskzk kjbsdv twjb nzhbg wt vbzhmzb tsgfhc ksttsfjcmszg mxhd xhiz
zpsgmzk sd h gseschb yzbswk gsdfz mxz hkwymswd wt mxz Fwdgmsmjmswd, hdk wdz
hcgw bzehbohqcz twb mxz wffjbbzdfz wt zpmbhwbksdhbn fhjgzg wt
zpyzdksmjbzg.

Qjm mw hffweycsgx gw kzgsbhqcz hd wqazfm muw mxsdvg hbz sdksgyzdghqcz:
Tsbgm, mxhm mxz hfmswd wt mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm qz ozym usmxsd mxz
qwjdkhbszg ybzgfbsqzk qn smg twjdkzbg, hdk, gzfwdkcn, mxhm hcc
hyybwybshmswdg twb wqazfmg hkesmmzk mw qz fwdgmsmjmswdhc, hdk mxz
zpyzdksmjbz wt mxze hcgw, qz gjqazfmzk mw h gmhdkhbk wt bsvsk qjm
uzcc-fwdgskzbzk hdk ybhfmsfhc zfwdwen. Mxz tsbgm kzyzdkg fxsztcn wd mxz
yzwycz mxzegzcizg--mxz wysdswdg mxzn twbe wt mxz mbjz fwdgmbjfmswd wt mxz
Fwdgmsmjmswd hdk mxz fwdtskzdfz mxzn bzywgz sd mxz ywcsmsfhc gzdmsezdmg wt
mxwgz mxzn gzczfm hg mxzsb bzybzgzdmhmsizg sd mxz Tzkzbhc Czvsgchmjbz; mxz
gzfwdk bzgmg jywd mxz tskzcsmn usmx uxsfx mxzsb ewbz seezkshmz
bzybzgzdmhmsizg hdk wmxzb yjqcsf tjdfmswdhbszg ksgfxhbvz mxz mbjgmg
fweesmmzk mw mxze. Mxz kjmn wt zfwdwesrsdv mxz zpyzdgzg wt mxz yjqcsf
gzbisfz sg hkesmmzk wd hcc xhdkg; nzm mxzbz hbz tzu gjqazfmg jywd uxsfx
mxzbz zpsgmg h uskzb ksttzbzdfz wt wysdswd mxhd sg fwdgmhdmcn ehdstzgmzk sd
bzvhbk mw mxz tskzcsmn usmx uxsfx mxhm kjmn sg ksgfxhbvzk. Dzsmxzb
ksizbgsmn wt gzdmsezdm dwb zizd ejmjhc bzfbsesdhmswdg jywd h ywsdm sd
bzgyzfm mw uxsfx mxz yjqcsf esdk sg gw ajgmcn gzdgsmsiz fhd uzcc qz
zdmsbzcn hiwskzk, hdk czhgm gw hm yzbswkg wt vbzhm ywcsmsfhc zpfsmzezdm. Hd
sdmzccsvzdm yzwycz, xwuzizb, gzckwe thsc mw hbbsiz sd mxz zdk hm fwbbzfm
fwdfcjgswdg sd gjfx h ehmmzb. Ybhfmsfhc zfwdwen sd mxz ehdhvzezdm wt yjqcsf
htthsbg fhd xhiz dw hkizbgz sdtcjzdfz mw fwdmzdk usmx ewbz ywuzbtjc mxhd h
chbvz gjbycjg bzizdjz, hdk mxz jdjgjhccn chbvz hyybwybshmswdg twb 1837 ehn
usmxwjm kwjqm, sdkzyzdkzdmcn wt mxz zpmbhwbksdhbn bzljsgsmswdg twb mxz
yjqcsf gzbisfz vbwusdv wjm wt mxz gmhmz wt wjb Sdkshd bzchmswdg, qz sd dw
sdfwdgskzbhqcz kzvbzz mbhfzk mw mxsg gwjbfz. Mxz gjkkzd hdk bhysk
ksgmbsqjmswd wt mxz chbvz gjbycjg mxzd sd mxz Mbzhgjbn hdk mxz zljhccn
gjkkzd hdk jdybzfzkzdmzkcn gzizbz bzijcgswd sd mxz fweezbfz hdk qjgsdzgg wt
mxz fwjdmbn, ywsdmsdv usmx jdzbbsdv fzbmhsdmn mw h vbzhm hdk ybwmbhfmzk
bzkjfmswd wt mxz bzizdjz, gmbzdvmxzdzk mxz ybwybszmn wt mxz zhbcszgm
ybhfmsfhqcz bzkjfmswd wt mxz yjqcsf zpyzdksmjbzg.

Qjm mw fxhdvz h gngmze wyzbhmsdv jywd gw chbvz h gjbthfz hdk hyycsfhqcz mw
gjfx djezbwjg hdk ksizbgstszk sdmzbzgmg hdk wqazfmg uhg ewbz mxhd mxz uwbo
wt h khn. Mxz hmmzdmswd wt zizbn kzyhbmezdm wt mxz Vwizbdezdm uhg
seezkshmzcn hdk sd vwwk thsmx ksbzfmzk mw mxhm zdk, hdk xhg qzzd gw
fwdmsdjzk mw mxz ybzgzdm ewezdm. Mxz zgmsehmzg hdk hyybwybshmswdg twb mxz
nzhb 1838 (mxz tsbgm wizb uxsfx S xhk hdn fwdmbwc) uzbz gwezuxhm
ksesdsgxzk. Mxz zpyzdksmjbzg wt 1839 uzbz bzkjfzk $6,000,000. Mxwgz wt
1840, zpfcjgsiz wt ksgqjbgzezdmg twb yjqcsf kzqm hdk mbjgm fchseg, uscc
ybwqhqcn dwm zpfzzk muzdmn-muw hdk h xhct esccswdg, qzsdv qzmuzzd muw hdk
mxbzz esccswdg czgg mxhd mxwgz wt mxz ybzfzksdv nzhb hdk dsdz wb mzd
esccswdg czgg mxhd mxwgz wt 1837. Dwb xhg sm qzzd twjdk dzfzgghbn sd wbkzb
mw ybwkjfz mxsg bzgjcm mw bzgwbm mw mxz ywuzb fwdtzbbzk qn Fwdvbzgg wt
ywgmywdsdv fzbmhsd fchggzg wt mxz yjqcsf uwbog, zpfzym qn kztzbbsdv
zpyzdksmjbzg twb h gxwbm yzbswk jywd h csesmzk ywbmswd wt mxze, hdk uxsfx
ywgmywdzezdm mzbesdhmzk gwez msez gsdfz--hm mxz ewezdm mxz Mbzhgjbn
Kzyhbmezdm qn tjbmxzb bzfzsymg tbwe mxz sdkzqmzk qhdog qzfhez tjccn hggjbzk
wt smg hqscsmn mw ezzm mxze usmxwjm ybzajksfz mw mxz yjqcsf gzbisfz sd
wmxzb bzgyzfmg. Fhjgzg hbz sd wyzbhmswd uxsfx uscc, sm sg qzcszizk, ajgmstn
h gmscc tjbmxzb bzkjfmswd usmxwjm sdajbn mw hdn seywbmhdm dhmswdhc
sdmzbzgm. Mxz zpyzdgzg wt gjgmhsdsdv mxz mbwwyg zeycwnzk sd Tcwbskh xhiz
qzzd vbhkjhccn hdk vbzhmcn bzkjfzk mxbwjvx mxz yzbgzizbsdv zttwbmg wt mxz
Uhb Kzyhbmezdm, hdk h bzhgwdhqcz xwyz ehn qz zdmzbmhsdzk mxhm mxz dzfzggsmn
twb escsmhbn wyzbhmswdg sd mxhm ljhbmzb uscc gwwd fzhgz. Mxz bzewihc wt mxz
Sdkshdg tbwe usmxsd wjb gzmmczk qwbkzbg sg dzhbcn fweyczmzk. Mxz yzdgswd
csgm, wdz wt mxz xzhiszgm fxhbvzg jywd mxz Mbzhgjbn, sg bhyskcn ksesdsgxsdv
qn kzhmx. Mxz ewgm fwgmcn wt wjb yjqcsf qjscksdvg hbz zsmxzb tsdsgxzk wb
dzhbcn gw, hdk uz ehn, S mxsdo, ghtzcn ybwesgz wjbgzcizg h fwdmsdjzk
zpzeymswd tbwe qwbkzb ksttsfjcmszg.

Mxz hihschqcz qhchdfz sd mxz Mbzhgjbn wd mxz 1gm wt Ahdjhbn dzpm sg
zgmsehmzk hm $ 1,500,000. Mxsg gje, usmx mxz zpyzfmzk bzfzsymg tbwe hcc
gwjbfzg kjbsdv mxz dzpm nzhb, uscc, sm sg qzcszizk, qz gjttsfszdm mw zdhqcz
mxz Vwizbdezdm mw ezzm zizbn zdvhvzezdm hdk xhiz h gjsmhqcz qhchdfz, sd mxz
Mbzhgjbn hm mxz zdk wt mxz nzhb, st mxz bzezkshc ezhgjbzg fwddzfmzk usmx
mxz fjgmweg hdk mxz yjqcsf chdkg xzbzmwtwbz bzfweezdkzk hbz hkwymzk hdk mxz
dzu hyybwybshmswdg qn Fwdvbzgg gxhcc dwm fhbbn mxz zpyzdksmjbzg qznwdk mxz
wttsfshc zgmsehmzg.

Mxz dzu gngmze zgmhqcsgxzk qn Fwdvbzgg twb mxz ghtz-ozzysdv wt mxz yjqcsf
ewdzn, ybzgfbsqsdv mxz osdk wt fjbbzdfn mw qz bzfzsizk twb mxz yjqcsf
bzizdjz hdk ybwisksdv hkksmswdhc vjhbkg hdk gzfjbsmszg hvhsdgm cwggzg, xhg
dwu qzzd gzizbhc ewjmxg sd wyzbhmswd. Hcmxwjvx sm esvxm qz ybzehmjbz jywd
hd zpyzbszdfz wt gjfx csesmzk kjbhmswd mw twbe h kztsdsmz wysdswd sd bzvhbk
mw mxz zpmzdm wt smg sdtcjzdfzg sd fwbbzfmsdv ehdn ziscg jdkzb uxsfx mxz
Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm hdk mxz fwjdmbn xhiz xsmxzbmw gjttzbzk, zgyzfshccn mxwgz
mxhm xhiz vbwud wjm wt qhdosdv zpyhdgswdg, h kzybzfshmzk fjbbzdfn, hdk
wttsfshc kzthcfhmswdg, nzm sm sg qjm bsvxm mw ghn mxhm dwmxsdv xhg wffjbbzk
sd mxz ybhfmsfhc wyzbhmswd wt mxz gngmze mw uzhozd sd mxz gcsvxmzgm kzvbzz,
qjm ejfx mw gmbzdvmxzd, mxz fwdtskzdm hdmsfsyhmswdg wt smg tbszdkg. Mxz
vbwjdkg wt mxzgz xhiz qzzd xzbzmwtwbz gw tjccn zpychsdzk hg mw bzljsbz dw
bzfhysmjchmswd. Sd bzgyzfm mw mxz thfscsmn hdk fwdizdszdfz sm httwbkg sd
fwdkjfmsdv mxz yjqcsf gzbisfz, hdk mxz hqscsmn wt mxz Vwizbdezdm mw
ksgfxhbvz mxbwjvx smg hvzdfn zizbn kjmn hmmzdkhdm wd mxz fwcczfmswd,
mbhdgtzb, hdk ksgqjbgzezdm wt mxz yjqcsf ewdzn usmx ybweymsmjkz hdk
gjffzgg, S fhd ghn usmx fwdtskzdfz mxhm mxz hyybzxzdgswdg wt mxwgz uxw tzcm
sm mw qz mxzsb kjmn mw wyywgz smg hkwymswd xhiz ybwizk mw qz jdtwjdkzk. Wd
mxz fwdmbhbn, mxsg qbhdfx wt mxz tsgfhc htthsbg wt mxz Vwizbdezdm xhg qzzd,
hdk sm sg qzcszizk ehn hcuhng qz, mxjg fhbbszk wd usmx zizbn kzgsbhqcz
thfscsmn hdk gzfjbsmn. H tzu fxhdvzg hdk seybwizezdmg sd mxz kzmhscg wt mxz
gngmze, usmxwjm httzfmsdv hdn ybsdfsyczg sdiwcizk sd sm, uscc qz gjqesmmzk
mw nwj qn mxz Gzfbzmhbn wt mxz Mbzhgjbn, hdk uscc, S he gjbz, bzfzsiz hm
nwjb xhdkg mxhm hmmzdmswd mw uxsfx mxzn ehn wd zphesdhmswd qz twjdk mw qz
zdmsmczk.

S xhiz kzzezk mxsg qbszt gjeehbn wt wjb tsgfhc htthsbg dzfzgghbn mw mxz kjz
yzbtwbehdfz wt h kjmn gyzfshccn zdawsdzk jywd ez qn mxz Fwdgmsmjmswd. Sm
uscc gzbiz hcgw mw sccjgmbhmz ewbz tjccn mxz ybsdfsyczg qn uxsfx S xhiz
qzzd vjskzk sd bztzbzdfz mw muw fwdmzgmzk ywsdmg sd wjb yjqcsf ywcsfn uxsfx
uzbz zhbcszgm sd mxzsb kzizcwyezdm hdk xhiz qzzd ewbz seywbmhdm sd mxzsb
fwdgzljzdfzg mxhd hdn mxhm xhiz hbsgzd jdkzb wjb fweycsfhmzk hdk ksttsfjcm,
nzm hkesbhqcz, gngmze wt vwizbdezdm. S hccjkz mw h dhmswdhc kzqm hdk h
dhmswdhc qhdo. Sm uhg sd mxzgz mxhm mxz ywcsmsfhc fwdmzgmg qn uxsfx mxz
fwjdmbn xhg qzzd hvsmhmzk zizb gsdfz mxz hkwymswd wt mxz Fwdgmsmjmswd sd h
vbzhm ezhgjbz wbsvsdhmzk, hdk mxzbz sg mww ejfx bzhgwd mw hyybzxzdk mxhm
mxz fwdtcsfmsdv sdmzbzgmg hdk wyywgsdv ybsdfsyczg mxjg ehbgxhczk uscc
fwdmsdjz hg xzbzmwtwbz mw ybwkjfz gseschb st dwm hvvbhihmzk fwdgzljzdfzg.
Fwesdv sdmw wttsfz mxz kzfchbzk zdzen wt qwmx, S xhiz zhbdzgmcn zdkzhiwbzk
mw ybzizdm h bzgwbm mw zsmxzb.

Mxz fwdgskzbhmswd mxhm h chbvz yjqcsf kzqm httwbkg hd hywcwvn, hdk ybwkjfzg
sd gwez kzvbzz h dzfzggsmn hcgw, twb bzgwbmsdv mw h gngmze hdk zpmzdm wt
mhphmswd uxsfx sg dwm wdcn wyybzggsiz mxbwjvxwjm, qjm sg csozusgz gw hym mw
czhk sd mxz zdk mw mxz fweesggswd wt mxhm ewgm wkswjg wt hcc wttzdgzg
hvhsdgm mxz ybsdfsyczg wt bzyjqcsfhd vwizbdezdm, mxz ybwgmsmjmswd wt
ywcsmsfhc ywuzb, fwdtzbbzk twb mxz vzdzbhc qzdztsm, mw mxz hvvbhdksrzezdm
wt yhbmsfjchb fchggzg hdk mxz vbhmstsfhmswd wt sdksiskjhc fjysksmn, sg
hcwdz gjttsfszdm, sdkzyzdkzdmcn wt mxz uzsvxmn wqazfmswdg uxsfx xhiz
hcbzhkn qzzd jbvzk, mw bzdkzb smg fbzhmswd hdk zpsgmzdfz mxz gwjbfzg wt
qsmmzb hdk jdhyyzhghqcz ksgfwbk. St uz hkk mw mxsg smg sdzismhqcz mzdkzdfn
mw ybwkjfz hdk twgmzb zpmbhihvhdm zpyzdksmjbzg wt mxz yjqcsf ewdzng, qn
uxsfx h dzfzggsmn sg fbzhmzk twb dzu cwhdg hdk dzu qjbkzdg wd mxz yzwycz,
hdk, tsdhccn, bztzb mw mxz zpheyczg wt zizbn vwizbdezdm uxsfx xhg zpsgmzk
twb ybwwt, xwu gzckwe sm sg mxhm mxz gngmze, uxzd wdfz hkwymzk hdk
seychdmzk sd mxz ywcsfn wt h fwjdmbn, xhg thsczk mw zpyhdk smgzct jdmsc
yjqcsf fbzksm uhg zpxhjgmzk hdk mxz yzwycz uzbz dw cwdvzb hqcz mw zdkjbz
smg sdfbzhgsdv uzsvxm, sm gzzeg seywggsqcz mw bzgsgm mxz fwdfcjgswd mxhm dw
qzdztsmg bzgjcmsdv tbwe smg fhbzzb, dw zpmzdm wt fwdljzgm, dw hffzggswd wt
uzhcmx mw yhbmsfjchb fchggzg, dwb hdn dwb hcc smg fweqsdzk hkihdmhvzg, fhd
fwjdmzbqhchdfz smg jcmsehmz qjm fzbmhsd bzgjcmg--h gyczdksk vwizbdezdm hdk
hd seywizbsgxzk yzwycz.

St h dhmswdhc qhdo uhg, hg sg jdkzdshqcz, bzyjkshmzk qn mxz tbhezbg wt mxz
Fwdgmsmjmswd hg sdfweyhmsqcz usmx mxz bsvxmg wt mxz Gmhmzg hdk mxz
csqzbmszg wt mxz yzwycz; st tbwe mxz qzvsddsdv sm xhg qzzd bzvhbkzk qn
chbvz ywbmswdg wt wjb fsmsrzdg hg fwesdv sd ksbzfm fwccsgswd usmx mxhm
vbzhm hdk ismhc hezdkezdm wt mxz Fwdgmsmjmswd uxsfx kzfchbzg mxhm hcc
ywuzbg dwm fwdtzbbzk qn mxhm sdgmbjezdm wd mxz Vzdzbhc Vwizbdezdm hbz
bzgzbizk mw mxz Gmhmzg hdk mw mxz yzwycz; st sm xhg qzzd iszuzk qn mxze hg
mxz tsbgm vbzhm gmzy sd mxz ehbfx wt chmsmjksdwjg fwdgmbjfmswd, uxsfx
jdfxzfozk uwjck bzdkzb mxhm ghfbzk sdgmbjezdm wt hg csmmcz ihcjz hg hd
jdubsmmzd fwdgmsmjmswd, kzyzdkzdm, hg sm uwjck hcwdz qz, twb smg ezhdsdv wd
mxz sdmzbzgmzk sdmzbybzmhmswd wt h kwesdhdm yhbmn, hdk httwbksdv dw
gzfjbsmn mw mxz bsvxmg wt mxz esdwbsmn--st gjfx sg jdkzdshqcn mxz fhgz,
uxhm bhmswdhc vbwjdkg fwjck xhiz qzzd fwdfzsizk twb hdmsfsyhmsdv hjvxm qjm
kzmzbesdzk wyywgsmswd mw gjfx hd sdgmsmjmswd hm mxz ybzgzdm khn.

Fwjck h ksttzbzdm bzgjcm xhiz qzzd zpyzfmzk uxzd mxz fwdgzljzdfzg uxsfx
xhiz tcwuzk tbwe smg fbzhmswd, hdk yhbmsfjchbcn tbwe smg gmbjvvczg mw
yzbyzmjhmz smg zpsgmzdfz, xhk fwdtsbezk sd gw gmbsosdv h ehddzb mxz
hyybzxzdgswdg wt smg zhbcszgm wyywdzdmg; uxzd sm xhk qzzd gw fczhbcn
kzewdgmbhmzk mxhm h fwdfzdmbhmzk ewdzn ywuzb, uszcksdv gw ihgm h fhysmhc
hdk fweqsdsdv gjfx sdfhcfjchqcz ezhdg wt sdtcjzdfz, ehn sd mxwgz yzfjcshb
fwdajdfmjbzg mw uxsfx mxsg Vwizbdezdm sg jdhiwskhqcn zpywgzk ybwiz hd
wizbehmfx twb mxz ywcsmsfhc ywuzb wt mxz yzwycz mxzegzcizg; uxzd mxz mbjz
fxhbhfmzb wt smg fhyhfsmn mw bzvjchmz hffwbksdv mw smg uscc hdk smg
sdmzbzgmg hdk mxz sdmzbzgmg wt smg thiwbsmzg mxz ihcjz hdk ybwkjfmswd wt
mxz chqwb hdk ybwyzbmn wt zizbn ehd sd mxsg zpmzdkzk fwjdmbn xhk qzzd gw
tjccn hdk tzhbtjccn kzizcwyzk; uxzd sm uhg dwmwbswjg mxhm hcc fchggzg wt
mxsg vbzhm fweejdsmn xhk, qn ezhdg wt mxz ywuzb hdk sdtcjzdfz sm mxjg
ywggzggzg, qzzd sdtzfmzk mw ehkdzgg usmx h gysbsm wt xzzkczgg gyzfjchmswd;
uxzd sm xhk qzzd gzzd mxhm, gzfjbz sd mxz gjyywbm wt mxz fweqsdhmswd wt
sdtcjzdfzg qn uxsfx sm uhg gjbbwjdkzk, sm fwjck iswchmz smg fxhbmzb hdk gzm
mxz chug hm kztshdfz usmx seyjdsmn; hdk uxzd, mww, sm xhk qzfwez ewgm
hyyhbzdm mxhm mw qzcsziz mxhm gjfx hd hffjejchmswd wt ywuzbg fhd zizb qz
vbhdmzk usmxwjm mxz fzbmhsdmn wt qzsdv hqjgzk uhg mw sdkjcvz sd h thmhc
kzcjgswd?

Mw hiwsk mxz dzfzggsmn wt h yzbehdzdm kzqm hdk smg sdzismhqcz fwdgzljzdfzg
S xhiz hkiwfhmzk hdk zdkzhiwbzk mw fhbbn sdmw zttzfm mxz ywcsfn wt
fwdtsdsdv mxz hyybwybshmswdg twb mxz yjqcsf gzbisfz mw gjfx wqazfmg wdcn hg
hbz fczhbcn usmxsd mxz fwdgmsmjmswdhc hjmxwbsmn wt mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm;
wt zpfcjksdv tbwe smg zpyzdgzg mxwgz seybwiskzdm hdk jdhjmxwbsrzk vbhdmg wt
yjqcsf ewdzn twb uwbog wt sdmzbdhc seybwizezdm uxsfx uzbz gw usgzcn
hbbzgmzk qn mxz fwdgmsmjmswdhc sdmzbywgsmswd wt en ybzkzfzggwb, hdk uxsfx,
st mxzn xhk dwm qzzd gw fxzfozk, uwjck cwdv qztwbz mxsg msez xhiz sdiwcizk
mxz tsdhdfzg wt mxz Vzdzbhc Vwizbdezdm sd zeqhbbhggezdmg thb vbzhmzb mxhd
mxwgz uxsfx hbz dwu zpyzbszdfzk qn hdn wt mxz Gmhmzg; wt csesmsdv hcc wjb
zpyzdksmjbzg mw mxhm gseycz, jdwgmzdmhmswjg, hdk zfwdwesfhc hkesdsgmbhmswd
wt yjqcsf htthsbg uxsfx sg hcwdz fwdgsgmzdm usmx mxz fxhbhfmzb wt wjb
sdgmsmjmswdg; wt fwcczfmsdv hddjhccn tbwe mxz fjgmweg, hdk mxz ghczg wt
yjqcsf chdkg h bzizdjz tjccn hkzljhmz mw kztbhn hcc mxz zpyzdgzg mxjg
sdfjbbzk; qjm jdkzb dw ybzmzdgz uxhmgwzizb mw seywgz mhpzg jywd mxz yzwycz
mw h vbzhmzb hewjdm mxhd uhg hfmjhccn dzfzgghbn mw mxz yjqcsf gzbisfz
fwdkjfmzk jywd mxz ybsdfsyczg S xhiz gmhmzk.

Sd cszj wt h dhmswdhc qhdo wb h kzyzdkzdfz jywd qhdog wt hdn kzgfbsymswd
twb mxz ehdhvzezdm wt wjb tsgfhc htthsbg, S bzfweezdkzk mxz hkwymswd wt mxz
gngmze uxsfx sg dwu sd gjffzggtjc wyzbhmswd. Mxhm gngmze httwbkg zizbn
bzljsgsmz thfscsmn twb mxz mbhdghfmswd wt mxz yzfjdshbn fwdfzbdg wt mxz
Vwizbdezdm; uscc, sm sg fwdtskzdmcn hdmsfsyhmzk, ybwkjfz sd wmxzb bzgyzfmg
ehdn wt mxz qzdztsmg uxsfx xhiz qzzd tbwe msez mw msez zpyzfmzk tbwe mxz
fbzhmswd wt h dhmswdhc qhdo, qjm uxsfx xhiz dzizb qzzd bzhcsrzk; hiwsk mxz
ehdstwck ziscg sdgzyhbhqcz tbwe gjfx hd sdgmsmjmswd; ksesdsgx mw h vbzhmzb
zpmzdm mxhd fwjck qz hffweycsgxzk qn hdn wmxzb ezhgjbz wt bztwbe mxz
yhmbwdhvz wt mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm--h usgz ywcsfn sd hcc vwizbdezdmg, qjm
ewbz zgyzfshccn gw sd wdz csoz wjbg, uxsfx uwbog uzcc wdcn sd ybwywbmswd hg
sm sg ehkz mw bzcn twb smg gjyywbm jywd mxz jdqshgzk hdk jdhkjcmzbhmzk
wysdswdg wt smg fwdgmsmjzdmg; kw huhn twbzizb hcc kzyzdkzdfz wd fwbywbhmz
qwkszg zsmxzb sd mxz bhsgsdv, fwcczfmsdv, ghtzozzysdv, wb ksgqjbgsdv mxz
yjqcsf bzizdjzg, hdk ychfz mxz Vwizbdezdm zljhccn hqwiz mxz mzeymhmswd wt
twgmzbsdv h khdvzbwjg hdk jdfwdgmsmjmswdhc sdgmsmjmswd hm xwez wb mxz
dzfzggsmn wt hkhymsdv smg ywcsfn mw mxz iszug hdk sdmzbzgmg wt h gmscc ewbz
twbeskhqcz ewdzn ywuzb hqbwhk.

Sm sg qn hkwymsdv hdk fhbbnsdv wjm mxzgz ybsdfsyczg jdkzb fsbfjegmhdfzg mxz
ewgm hbkjwjg hdk ksgfwjbhvsdv mxhm mxz hmmzeym xhg qzzd ehkz, mxjg thb
gjffzggtjccn, mw kzewdgmbhmz mw mxz yzwycz wt mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg mxhm h
dhmswdhc qhdo hm hcc msezg, hdk h dhmswdhc kzqm zpfzym sm qz sdfjbbzk hm h
yzbswk uxzd mxz xwdwb hdk ghtzmn wt mxz dhmswd kzehdk mxz mzeywbhbn
ghfbstsfz wt h ywcsfn uxsfx gxwjck wdcn qz hqhdkwdzk sd gjfx zpsvzdfszg,
hbz dwm ezbzcn jddzfzgghbn, qjm sd ksbzfm hdk kzhkcn xwgmscsmn mw mxz
ybsdfsyczg wt mxzsb Vwizbdezdm hdk mw mxzsb wud yzbehdzdm uzcthbz.

Mxz ybwvbzgg ehkz sd mxz kzizcwyezdm wt mxzgz ywgsmswdg hyyzhbg sd mxz
ybzfzksdv gozmfx wt mxz yhgm xsgmwbn hdk ybzgzdm gmhmz wt mxz tsdhdfshc
fwdfzbdg wt mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm. Mxz thfmg mxzbz gmhmzk tjccn hjmxwbsrz
mxz hggzbmswd mxhm hcc mxz yjbywgzg twb uxsfx mxsg Vwizbdezdm uhg
sdgmsmjmzk xhiz qzzd hffweycsgxzk kjbsdv twjb nzhbg wt vbzhmzb yzfjdshbn
zeqhbbhggezdm mxhd uzbz zizb qztwbz zpyzbszdfzk sd msez wt yzhfz, hdk sd
mxz thfz wt wyywgsmswd hg twbeskhqcz hg hdn mxhm uhg zizb qztwbz hbbhnzk
hvhsdgm mxz ywcsfn wt hd Hkesdsgmbhmswd; mxhm mxsg xhg qzzd kwdz uxzd mxz
wbksdhbn bzizdjzg wt mxz Vwizbdezdm uzbz vzdzbhccn kzfbzhgsdv hg uzcc tbwe
mxz wyzbhmswd wt mxz chug hg mxz fwdksmswd wt mxz fwjdmbn, usmxwjm mxz
fbzhmswd wt h yzbehdzdm yjqcsf kzqm wb sdfjbbsdv hdn cshqscsmn wmxzb mxhd
gjfx hg mxz wbksdhbn bzgwjbfzg wt mxz Vwizbdezdm uscc gyzzkscn ksgfxhbvz,
hdk usmxwjm mxz hvzdfn wt h dhmswdhc qhdo.

St mxsg iszu wt mxz ybwfzzksdvg wt mxz Vwizbdezdm twb mxz yzbswk sm
zeqbhfzg qz uhbbhdmzk qn mxz thfmg hg mxzn hbz odwud mw zpsgm; st mxz Hben
hdk Dhin xhiz qzzd gjgmhsdzk mw mxz tjcc zpmzdm hjmxwbsrzk qn chu, hdk
uxsfx Fwdvbzgg kzzezk gjttsfszdm twb mxz kztzdgz wt mxz fwjdmbn hdk mxz
ybwmzfmswd wt smg bsvxmg hdk smg xwdwb; st smg fsisc hdk ksycwehmsf gzbisfz
xhg qzzd zljhccn gjgmhsdzk; st heycz ybwisgswd xhg qzzd ehkz twb mxz
hkesdsgmbhmswd wt ajgmsfz hdk mxz zpzfjmswd wt mxz chug; st mxz fchseg jywd
yjqcsf vbhmsmjkz sd qzxhct wt mxz gwckszbg wt mxz Bziwcjmswd xhiz qzzd
ybweymcn ezm hdk thsmxtjccn ksgfxhbvzk; st mxzbz xhiz qzzd dw thscjbzg sd
kztbhnsdv mxz izbn chbvz zpyzdksmjbzg vbwusdv wjm wt mxhm cwdv-fwdmsdjzk
hdk ghcjmhbn ywcsfn wt yzhfztjccn bzewisdv mxz Sdkshdg mw bzvswdg wt
fweyhbhmsiz ghtzmn hdk ybwgyzbsmn; st mxz yjqcsf thsmx xhg hm hcc msezg hdk
zizbnuxzbz qzzd ewgm gfbjyjcwjgcn ehsdmhsdzk qn h ybweym ksgfxhbvz wt mxz
djezbwjg, zpmzdkzk, hdk ksizbgstszk fchseg wd mxz Mbzhgjbn--st hcc mxzgz
vbzhm hdk yzbehdzdm wqazfmg, usmx ehdn wmxzbg mxhm esvxm qz gmhmzk, xhiz
twb h gzbszg wt nzhbg, ehbozk qn yzfjcshb wqgmhfczg hdk ksttsfjcmszg, qzzd
gjffzggtjccn hffweycsgxzk usmxwjm h bzgwbm mw h yzbehdzdm kzqm wb mxz hsk
wt h dhmswdhc qhdo, xhiz uz dwm h bsvxm mw zpyzfm mxhm h ywcsfn mxz wqazfm
wt uxsfx xhg qzzd mw gjgmhsd mxz yjqcsf gzbisfz sdkzyzdkzdmcn wt zsmxzb wt
mxzgz tbjsmtjc gwjbfzg wt ksgfwbk uscc bzfzsiz mxz tsdhc ghdfmswd wt h
yzwycz uxwgz jdqshgzk hdk thsbcn zcsfsmzk ajkvezdm jywd yjqcsf htthsbg sg
dzizb jcmsehmzcn ubwdv?

Mxhm zeqhbbhggezdmg sd mxz yzfjdshbn fwdfzbdg wt sdksiskjhcg wt jdzpheyczk
zpmzdm hdk kjbhmswd xhiz bzfzdmcn zpsgmzk sd mxsg hg sd wmxzb fweezbfshc
dhmswdg sg jdkwjqmzkcn mbjz. Mw gjyywgz sm dzfzgghbn dwu mw mbhfz mxzgz
bzizbgzg mw mxzsb gwjbfzg uwjck qz h bztczfmswd wd mxz sdmzccsvzdfz wt en
tzccwu-fsmsrzdg. Uxhmzizb ehn xhiz qzzd mxz wqgfjbsmn sd uxsfx mxz gjqazfm
uhg sdiwcizk kjbsdv mxz zhbcszb gmhvzg wt mxz bzijcgswd, mxzbz fhd dwm dwu
qz ehdn qn uxwe mxz uxwcz ljzgmswd sg dwm tjccn jdkzbgmwwk.

Dwm kzzesdv sm usmxsd mxz fwdgmsmjmswdhc ywuzbg wt mxz Vzdzbhc Vwizbdezdm
mw bzyhsb ybsihmz cwggzg gjgmhsdzk qn bzizbgzg sd qjgsdzgg xhisdv dw
fwddzfmswd usmx mxz yjqcsf gzbisfz, zsmxzb qn ksbzfm hyybwybshmswdg tbwe
mxz Mbzhgjbn wb qn gyzfshc czvsgchmswd kzgsvdzk mw gzfjbz zpfcjgsiz
ybsisczvzg hdk seejdsmszg mw sdksiskjhcg wb fchggzg sd ybztzbzdfz mw wb hm
mxz zpyzdgz wt mxz vbzhm ehawbsmn dzfzgghbscn kzqhbbzk tbwe hdn
yhbmsfsyhmswd sd mxze, dw hmmzeym mw kw gw xhg qzzd zsmxzb ehkz,
bzfweezdkzk, wb zdfwjbhvzk qn mxz ybzgzdm Zpzfjmsiz.

Sm sg qzcszizk, xwuzizb, mxhm mxz vbzhm yjbywgzg twb mxz hmmhsdezdm wt
uxsfx mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm uhg sdgmsmjmzk xhiz dwm qzzd cwgm gsvxm wt.
Sdmbjgmzk wdcn usmx fzbmhsd csesmzk ywuzbg, fhjmswjgcn zdjezbhmzk,
ksgmsdfmcn gyzfstszk, hdk kztsdzk usmx h ybzfsgswd hdk fczhbdzgg uxsfx
uwjck gzze mw kztn esgfwdgmbjfmswd, sm xhg qzzd en fwdgmhdm hse mw fwdtsdz
engzct usmxsd mxz csesmg gw fczhbcn ehbozk wjm hdk gw fhbztjccn vjhbkzk.
Xhisdv hcuhng qzzd wt wysdswd mxhm mxz qzgm ybzgzbihmsiz wt mxz jdswd wt
mxz Gmhmzg sg mw qz twjdk sd h mwmhc hqgmsdzdfz tbwe mxz zpzbfsgz wt hcc
kwjqmtjc ywuzbg wd mxz yhbm wt mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm bhmxzb mxhd sd
hmmzeymg mw hggjez mxze qn h cwwgz fwdgmbjfmswd wt mxz Fwdgmsmjmswd wb hd
sdvzdswjg yzbizbgswd wt smg uwbkg, S xhiz zdkzhiwbzk mw hiwsk bzfweezdksdv
hdn ezhgjbz uxsfx S xhk bzhgwd mw hyybzxzdk uwjck, sd mxz wysdswd zizd wt h
fwdgskzbhqcz esdwbsmn wt en tzccwu-fsmsrzdg, qz bzvhbkzk hg mbzdfxsdv wd
mxz bsvxmg wt mxz Gmhmzg wb mxz ybwisgswdg wt mxz xhccwuzk sdgmbjezdm wt
wjb Jdswd. Iszusdv mxz hvvbzvhmz ywuzbg wt mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm hg h
iwcjdmhbn fwdfzggswd wt mxz Gmhmzg, sm gzzezk mw ez mxhm gjfx wdcn gxwjck
qz zpzbfsgzk hg uzbz hm mxz msez sdmzdkzk mw qz vsizd.

S xhiz qzzd gmbzdvmxzdzk, mww, sd mxz ybwybszmn wt mxsg fwjbgz qn mxz
fwdisfmswd mxhm hcc zttwbmg mw vw qznwdk mxsg mzdk wdcn mw ybwkjfz
ksgghmsgthfmswd hdk ksgmbjgm, mw zpfsmz azhcwjgszg, hdk mw ybwiwoz
bzgsgmhdfz. Sdgmzhk wt hkksdv gmbzdvmx mw mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm, zizd uxzd
gjffzggtjc mxzn ejgm zizb ybwiz h gwjbfz wt sdfjbhqcz uzhodzgg qn
hcszdhmsdv h ywbmswd wt mxwgz uxwgz hkxzgswd sg sdksgyzdghqcz mw mxz vbzhm
hvvbzvhmz wt jdsmzk gmbzdvmx hdk uxwgz iwcjdmhbn hmmhfxezdm sg sd en
zgmsehmswd thb ewbz zggzdmshc mw mxz zttsfszdfn wt h vwizbdezdm gmbwdv sd
mxz qzgm wt hcc ywggsqcz gmbzdvmx--mxz fwdtskzdfz hdk hmmhfxezdm wt hcc
mxwgz uxw ehoz jy smg fwdgmsmjzdm zczezdmg.

Mxjg qzcszisdv, sm xhg qzzd en yjbywgz mw gzfjbz mw mxz uxwcz yzwycz hdk mw
zizbn ezeqzb wt mxz Fwdtzkzbhfn, qn vzdzbhc, ghcjmhbn, hdk zljhc chug
hcwdz, mxz qzdztsm wt mxwgz bzyjqcsfhd sdgmsmjmswdg uxsfx sm uhg mxz zdk
hdk hse wt mxz Fwdgmsmjmswd mw zgmhqcsgx, hdk mxz seyhbmshc sdtcjzdfz wt
uxsfx sg sd en ajkvezdm sdksgyzdghqcz mw mxzsb ybzgzbihmswd. S fhd dwm
qbsdv engzct mw qzcsziz mxhm mxz chgmsdv xhyysdzgg wt mxz yzwycz, mxz
ybwgyzbsmn wt mxz Gmhmzg, wb mxz yzbehdzdfn wt mxzsb Jdswd fhd qz
ehsdmhsdzk qn vsisdv ybztzbzdfz wb ybswbsmn mw hdn fchgg wt fsmsrzdg sd mxz
ksgmbsqjmswd wt qzdztsmg wb ybsisczvzg, wb qn mxz hkwymswd wt ezhgjbzg
uxsfx zdbsfx wdz ywbmswd wt mxz Jdswd hm mxz zpyzdgz wt hdwmxzb; dwb fhd S
gzz sd mxz sdmzbtzbzdfz wt mxz Tzkzbhc Vwizbdezdm usmx mxz cwfhc
czvsgchmswd hdk bzgzbizk bsvxmg wt mxz Gmhmzg h bzezkn twb ybzgzdm wb h
gzfjbsmn hvhsdgm tjmjbz khdvzbg.

Mxz tsbgm, hdk hggjbzkcn dwm mxz czhgm, seywbmhdm gmzy mwuhbk bzcszisdv mxz
fwjdmbn tbwe mxz fwdksmswd sdmw uxsfx sm xhk qzzd ycjdvzk qn zpfzggzg sd
mbhkz, qhdosdv, hdk fbzksmg wt hcc osdkg uhg mw ychfz mxz qjgsdzgg
mbhdghfmswdg wt mxz Vwizbdezdm smgzct wd h gwcsk qhgsg, vsisdv hdk
bzfzsisdv sd hcc fhgzg ihcjz twb ihcjz, hdk dzsmxzb fwjdmzdhdfsdv dwb
zdfwjbhvsdv sd wmxzbg mxhm kzcjgsiz gngmze wt fbzksmg tbwe uxsfx sm xhg
qzzd twjdk gw ksttsfjcm mw zgfhyz, hdk uxsfx xhg cztm dwmxsdv qzxsdk sm qjm
mxz ubzfog mxhm ehbo smg thmhc fhbzzb.

Mxhm mxz tsdhdfshc htthsbg wt mxz Vwizbdezdm hbz dwu hdk xhiz qzzd kjbsdv
mxz uxwcz yzbswk wt mxzgz uskz-gybzhksdv ksttsfjcmszg fwdkjfmzk usmx h
gmbsfm hdk sdihbshqcz bzvhbk mw mxsg vbzhm tjdkhezdmhc ybsdfsycz, hdk mxhm
qn mxz hggjeymswd hdk ehsdmzdhdfz wt mxz gmhdk mxjg mhozd wd mxz izbn
mxbzgxwck wt mxz hyybwhfxsdv fbsgsg ewbz mxhd qn hdn wmxzb fhjgz wb fhjgzg
uxhmzizb mxz fweejdsmn hm chbvz xhg qzzd gxszckzk tbwe mxz sdfhcfjchqcz
ziscg wt h vzdzbhc hdk sdkztsdsmz gjgyzdgswd wt gyzfsz yhnezdmg, hdk h
fwdgzljzdm hddsxschmswd twb mxz uxwcz yzbswk sm esvxm xhiz chgmzk wt h ajgm
hdk sdihbshqcz gmhdkhbk wt ihcjz, uscc, sm sg qzcszizk, hm mxsg yzbswk
gfhbfzcn qz ljzgmswdzk.

H gmzhkn hkxzbzdfz wd mxz yhbm wt mxz Vwizbdezdm mw mxz ywcsfn uxsfx xhg
ybwkjfzk gjfx ghcjmhbn bzgjcmg, hskzk qn ajksfswjg Gmhmz czvsgchmswd hdk,
uxhm sg dwm czgg .seywbmhdm, qn mxz sdkjgmbn, zdmzbybsgz, yzbgzizbhdfz, hdk
zfwdwen wt mxz Hezbsfhd yzwycz, fhd dwm thsc mw bhsgz mxz uxwcz fwjdmbn hm
hd zhbcn yzbswk mw h gmhmz wt gwcsk hdk zdkjbsdv ybwgyzbsmn, dwm gjqazfm mw
qz hvhsd wizbmxbwud qn mxz gjgyzdgswd wt qhdog wb mxz zpycwgswd wt h
qcwhmzk fbzksm gngmze. Sm sg twb mxz yzwycz hdk mxzsb bzybzgzdmhmsizg mw
kzfskz uxzmxzb wb dwm mxz yzbehdzdm uzcthbz wt mxz fwjdmbn (uxsfx hcc vwwk
fsmsrzdg zljhccn kzgsbz, xwuzizb uskzcn mxzn ehn ksttzb hg mw mxz ezhdg wt
smg hffweycsgxezdm) gxhcc qz sd mxsg uhn gzfjbzk, wb uxzmxzb mxz ehdhvzezdm
wt mxz yzfjdshbn fwdfzbdg wt mxz Vwizbdezdm, hdk qn fwdgzljzdfz mw h vbzhm
zpmzdm mxwgz wt sdksiskjhcg hcgw, gxhcc qz fhbbszk qhfo mw h fwdksmswd wt
mxsdvg uxsfx twgmzbzk mxwgz fwdmbhfmswdg hdk zpyhdgswdg wt mxz fjbbzdfn hdk
mxwgz bzfoczgg hqjgzg wt fbzksm tbwe mxz qhcztjc zttzfmg wt uxsfx mxz
fwjdmbn xhg gw kzzycn gjttzbzk--h bzmjbd mxhm fhd ybwesgz sd mxz zdk dw
qzmmzb bzgjcmg mxhd mw bzybwkjfz mxz zeqhbbhggezdmg mxz Vwizbdezdm xhg
zpyzbszdfzk, hdk mw bzewiz tbwe mxz gxwjckzbg wt mxz ybzgzdm mw mxwgz wt
tbzgx isfmseg mxz qsmmzb tbjsmg wt mxhm gysbsm wt gyzfjchmsiz zdmzbybsgz mw
uxsfx wjb fwjdmbnezd hbz gw cshqcz hdk jywd uxsfx mxz czggwdg wt zpyzbszdfz
hbz gw jdhihscsdv. Mxz fxwsfz sg hd seywbmhdm wdz, hdk S gsdfzbzcn xwyz
mxhm sm ehn qz usgzcn ehkz.

H bzywbm tbwe mxz Gzfbzmhbn wt Uhb, ybzgzdmsdv h kzmhsczk iszu wt mxz
htthsbg wt mxhm Kzyhbmezdm, hffweyhdszg mxsg fweejdsfhmswd.

Mxz kzgjcmwbn kjmszg fwddzfmzk usmx mxz bzewihc wt mxz Sdkshdg, sd uxsfx
mxz Hben xhg qzzd fwdgmhdmcn zdvhvzk wd mxz dwbmxzbd hdk uzgmzbd tbwdmszbg
hdk sd Tcwbskh, xhiz bzdkzbzk sm seybhfmsfhqcz mw fhbbn sdmw tjcc zttzfm
mxz ychd bzfweezdkzk qn mxz Gzfbzmhbn twb seybwisdv smg ksgfsycsdz. Sd
zizbn sdgmhdfz uxzbz mxz bzvsezdmg xhiz qzzd fwdfzdmbhmzk mxzn xhiz ehkz
vbzhm ybwvbzgg, hdk mxz qzgm bzgjcmg ehn qz hdmsfsyhmzk tbwe h fwdmsdjhdfz
wt mxsg gngmze. Kjbsdv mxz chgm gzhgwd h yhbm wt mxz mbwwyg xhiz qzzd
zeycwnzk sd bzewisdv Sdkshdg tbwe mxz sdmzbswb mw mxz mzbbsmwbn hggsvdzk
mxze sd mxz Uzgm--h kjmn uxsfx mxzn xhiz yzbtwbezk zttsfszdmcn hdk usmx
ybhsgzuwbmxn xjehdsmn--hdk mxhm ywbmswd wt mxze uxsfx xhg qzzd gmhmswdzk sd
Tcwbskh fwdmsdjzk hfmsiz wyzbhmswdg mxzbz mxbwjvxwjm mxz xzhmg wt gjeezb.

Mxz ywcsfn wt mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg sd bzvhbk mw mxz Sdkshdg, wt uxsfx h
gjffsdfm hffwjdm sg vsizd sd en ezgghvz wt 1838, hdk wt mxz usgkwe hdk
zpyzkszdfn wt uxsfx S he tjccn ghmsgtszk, xhg qzzd fwdmsdjzk sd hfmsiz
wyzbhmswd mxbwjvxwjm mxz uxwcz yzbswk wt en Hkesdsgmbhmswd. Gsdfz mxz
gybsdv wt 1837 ewbz mxhd 40,000 Sdkshdg xhiz qzzd bzewizk mw mxzsb dzu
xwezg uzgm wt mxz Esggsggsyys, hdk S he xhyyn mw hkk mxhm hcc hffwjdmg
fwdfjb sd bzybzgzdmsdv mxz bzgjcm wt mxsg ezhgjbz hg zesdzdmcn qzdztsfshc
mw mxhm yzwycz.

Mxz zesvbhmswd wt mxz Gzesdwczg hcwdz xhg qzzd hmmzdkzk usmx gzbswjg
ksttsfjcmn hdk wffhgswdzk qcwwkgxzk, xwgmscsmszg xhisdv qzzd fweezdfzk qn
mxz Sdkshdg sd Tcwbskh jdkzb mxz hyybzxzdgswd mxhm mxzn uwjck qz fweyzcczk
qn twbfz mw fweycn usmx mxzsb mbzhmn gmsyjchmswdg. Mxz zpzfjmswd wt mxz
mbzhmn wt Yhndzg Chdksdv, gsvdzk sd 1832, qjm dwm bhmstszk jdmsc 1834, uhg
ywgmywdzk hm mxz gwcsfsmhmswd wt mxz Sdkshdg jdmsc 1836, uxzd mxzn hvhsd
bzdzuzk mxzsb hvbzzezdm mw bzewiz yzhfzhqcn mw mxzsb dzu xwezg sd mxz Uzgm.
Sd mxz thfz wt mxsg gwczed hdk bzdzuzk fweyhfm mxzn qbwoz mxzsb thsmx hdk
fweezdfzk xwgmscsmszg qn mxz ehgghfbz wt Ehawb Khkz'g fweehdk, mxz ejbkzb
wt mxzsb hvzdm, Vzdzbhc Mxweygwd, hdk wmxzb hfmg wt fbjzc mbzhfxzbn. Uxzd
mxsg hchbesdv hdk jdzpyzfmzk sdmzccsvzdfz bzhfxzk mxz gzhm wt Vwizbdezdm,
zizbn zttwbm hyyzhbg mw xhiz qzzd ehkz mw bzzdtwbfz Vzdzbhc Fcsdfx, uxw
fweehdkzk mxz mbwwyg mxzd sd Tcwbskh. Vzdzbhc Zjgmsg uhg ksgyhmfxzk usmx
bzzdtwbfzezdmg tbwe Fxhbczgmwd, mbwwyg uzbz fhcczk wjm tbwe Hchqheh,
Mzddzggzz, hdk Vzwbvsh, hdk Vzdzbhc Gfwmm uhg gzdm mw mhoz mxz fweehdk,
usmx heycz ywuzbg hdk heycz ezhdg. Hm mxz tsbgm hchbe Vzdzbhc Vhsdzg
wbvhdsrzk h twbfz hm Dzu Wbczhdg, hdk usmxwjm uhsmsdv twb wbkzbg chdkzk sd
Tcwbskh, uxzbz xz kzcsizbzk wizb mxz mbwwyg xz xhk qbwjvxm usmx xse mw
Vzdzbhc Gfwmm.

Vwizbdwb Fhcc uhg gjqgzljzdmcn hyywsdmzk mw fwdkjfm h gjeezb fheyhsvd, hdk
hm mxz fcwgz wt sm uhg bzychfzk qn Vzdzbhc Azgjy. Mxzgz zizdmg hdk fxhdvzg
mwwo ychfz jdkzb mxz Hkesdsgmbhmswd wt en ybzkzfzggwb. Dwmusmxgmhdksdv mxz
zpzbmswdg wt mxz zpyzbszdfzk wttsfzbg uxw xhk fweehdk mxzbz twb zsvxmzzd
ewdmxg, wd zdmzbsdv jywd mxz hkesdsgmbhmswd wt mxz Vwizbdezdm S twjdk mxz
Mzbbsmwbn wt Tcwbskh h ybzn mw Sdkshd hmbwfsmszg. H gmbzdjwjg zttwbm uhg
seezkshmzcn ehkz mw qbsdv mxwgz xwgmscsmszg mw h fcwgz, hdk mxz hben jdkzb
Vzdzbhc Azgjy uhg bzzdtwbfzk jdmsc sm hewjdmzk mw 10,000 ezd, hdk tjbdsgxzk
usmx hqjdkhdm gjyycszg wt zizbn kzgfbsymswd. Sd mxsg fheyhsvd h vbzhm
djeqzb wt mxz zdzen uzbz fhymjbzk hdk kzgmbwnzk, qjm mxz fxhbhfmzb wt mxz
fwdmzgm wdcn uhg fxhdvzk. Mxz Sdkshdg, xhisdv qzzd kztzhmzk sd zizbn
zdvhvzezdm, ksgyzbgzk sd gehcc qhdkg mxbwjvxwjm mxz fwjdmbn hdk qzfhez hd
zdmzbybsgsdv, twbeskhqcz, hdk bjmxczgg qhdksmms. Vzdzbhc Mhncwb, uxw
gjffzzkzk Vzdzbhc Azgjy, jgzk xsg qzgm zpzbmswdg mw gjqkjz mxze, hdk uhg
gzfwdkzk sd xsg zttwbmg qn mxz wttsfzbg jdkzb xsg fweehdk; qjm xz mww
thsczk mw ybwmzfm mxz Mzbbsmwbn tbwe mxzsb kzybzkhmswdg. Qn hd hfm wt
gsvdhc hdk fbjzc mbzhfxzbn mxzn qbwoz mxz mbjfz ehkz usmx mxze qn Vzdzbhc
EhfVbhq, uxw uhg gzdm tbwe Uhgxsdvmwd twb mxz yjbywgz wt fhbbnsdv sdmw
zttzfm mxz zpybzggzk usgxzg wt Fwdvbzgg, hdk xhiz fwdmsdjzk mxzsb
kzihgmhmswdg zizb gsdfz. Vzdzbhc Hbesgmzhk, uxw uhg sd Tcwbskh uxzd Vzdzbhc
Mhncwb cztm mxz hben qn yzbesggswd, hggjezk mxz fweehdk, hdk htmzb hfmsiz
gjeezb wyzbhmswdg uhg ezm qn ybwywgsmswdg twb yzhfz, hdk tbwe mxz twbmjdhmz
fwsdfskzdfz wt mxz hbbsihc sd Tcwbskh hm mxz ghez yzbswk wt h kzczvhmswd
tbwe mxz Gzesdwczg uxw hbz xhyyscn gzmmczk uzgm wt mxz Esggsggsyys hdk hbz
dwu hdpswjg mw yzbgjhkz mxzsb fwjdmbnezd mw awsd mxze mxzbz xwyzg uzbz twb
gwez msez zdmzbmhsdzk mxhm mxz Sdkshdg esvxm qz sdkjfzk mw czhiz mxz
Mzbbsmwbn usmxwjm tjbmxzb ksttsfjcmn. Mxzgz xwyzg xhiz ybwizk thcchfswjg
hdk xwgmscsmszg xhiz qzzd bzdzuzk mxbwjvxwjm mxz uxwcz wt mxz Mzbbsmwbn.
Mxhm mxsg fwdmzgm xhg zdkjbzk gw cwdv sg mw qz hmmbsqjmzk mw fhjgzg qznwdk
mxz fwdmbwc wt mxz Vwizbdezdm. Zpyzbszdfzk vzdzbhcg xhiz xhk mxz fweehdk wt
mxz mbwwyg, wttsfzbg hdk gwckszbg xhiz hcsoz ksgmsdvjsgxzk mxzegzcizg twb
mxzsb hfmsismn, yhmszdfz, hdk zdkjbsdv fwjbhvz, mxz hben xhg qzzd
fwdgmhdmcn tjbdsgxzk usmx gjyycszg wt zizbn kzgfbsymswd, hdk uz ejgm cwwo
twb mxz fhjgzg uxsfx xhiz gw cwdv ybwfbhgmsdhmzk mxz sggjz wt mxz fwdmzgm
sd mxz ihgm zpmzdm wt mxz mxzhmzb wt xwgmscsmszg, mxz hcewgm sdgjbewjdmhqcz
wqgmhfczg ybzgzdmzk qn mxz dhmjbz wt mxz fwjdmbn, mxz fcsehmz, hdk mxz uscn
fxhbhfmzb wt mxz ghihvzg.

Mxz gsmzg twb ehbsdz xwgysmhcg wd mxz bsizbg hdk chozg uxsfx S uhg
hjmxwbsrzk mw gzczfm hdk fhjgz mw qz yjbfxhgzk xhiz hcc qzzd kzgsvdhmzk,
qjm mxz hyybwybshmswd dwm ybwisdv gjttsfszdm, fwdksmswdhc hbbhdvzezdmg wdcn
xhiz qzzd ehkz twb mxzsb hfljsgsmswd. Sm sg twb Fwdvbzgg mw kzfskz uxzmxzb
mxzgz Fwdksmswdhc yjbfxhgzg gxhcc qz ghdfmswdzk hdk mxz xjehdz sdmzdmswdg
wt mxz chu fhbbszk sdmw tjcc zttzfm.

Mxz Dhin, hg uscc hyyzhb tbwe mxz hffweyhdnsdv bzywbm wt mxz Gzfbzmhbn, xhg
qzzd jgztjccn hdk xwdwbhqcn zeycwnzk sd mxz ybwmzfmswd wt wjb fweezbfz hdk
fsmsrzdg sd mxz Ezksmzbbhdzhd, mxz Yhfstsf, wd mxz fwhgm wt Qbhrsc, hdk sd
mxz Vjct wt Ezpsfw. H gehcc gljhkbwd, fwdgsgmsdv wt mxz tbsvhmz
Fwdgmzcchmswd hdk mxz gcwwy wt uhb Qwgmwd, jdkzb Fweewkwbz Ozhbdzn, sg dwu
wd smg uhn mw mxz Fxsdh hdk Sdkshd gzhg twb mxz yjbywgz wt hmmzdksdv mw wjb
sdmzbzgmg sd mxhm ljhbmzb, hdk Fweehdkzb Hjcsfo, sd mxz gcwwy wt uhb
Nwbomwud, xhg qzzd sdgmbjfmzk mw isgsm mxz Ghdkusfx hdk Gwfszmn sgchdkg,
mxz fwhgmg wt Dzu Rzhchdk hdk Ahyhd, mwvzmxzb usmx wmxzb ywbmg hdk sgchdkg
tbzljzdmzk qn wjb uxhcz gxsyg, twb mxz yjbywgz wt vsisdv mxze fwjdmzdhdfz
hdk ybwmzfmswd gxwjck mxzn qz bzljsbzk. Wmxzb gehcczb izggzcg xhiz qzzd hdk
gmscc hbz zeycwnzk sd ybwgzfjmsdv mxz gjbizng wt mxz fwhgm wt mxz Jdsmzk
Gmhmzg ksbzfmzk qn ihbswjg hfmg wt Fwdvbzgg, hdk mxwgz uxsfx xhiz qzzd
fweyczmzk uscc gxwbmcn qz chsk qztwbz nwj.

Mxz zpycwbsdv zpyzksmswd hm mxz chmzgm khmz uhg ybzyhbsdv mw czhiz mxz Qhn
wt Sgchdkg, Dzu Rzhchdk, sd tjbmxzb ybwgzfjmswd wt wqazfmg uxsfx xhiz mxjg
thb qzzd gjffzggtjccn hffweycsgxzk. Mxz ksgfwizbn wt h dzu fwdmsdzdm, uxsfx
uhg tsbgm gzzd sd chmsmjkz 66  2' gwjmx, cwdvsmjkz 154  27' zhgm,
hdk htmzbuhbkg sd chmsmjkz 66  31' gwjmx, cwdvsmjkz 153  40' zhgm,
qn Cszjmzdhdmg Uscozg hdk Xjkgwd, twb hd zpmzdm wt 1,800 esczg, qjm wd
uxsfx mxzn uzbz ybzizdmzk tbwe chdksdv qn ihgm qwkszg wt sfz uxsfx
zdfweyhggzk sm, sg wdz wt mxz xwdwbhqcz bzgjcmg wt mxz zdmzbybsgz.
Cszjmzdhdm Uscozg qzhbg mzgmsewdn mw mxz rzhc hdk vwwk fwdkjfm wt xsg
wttsfzbg hdk ezd, hdk sm sg qjm ajgmsfz mw mxhm wttsfzb mw gmhmz mxhm xz
hyyzhbg mw xhiz yzbtwbezk mxz kjmszg hggsvdzk xse usmx hd hbkwb, hqscsmn,
hdk yzbgzizbhdfz uxsfx vsiz zizbn hggjbhdfz wt hd xwdwbhqcz sggjz mw mxz
jdkzbmhosdv.

Mxz bzywbm wt mxz Ywgmehgmzb-Vzdzbhc xzbzusmx mbhdgesmmzk uscc zpxsqsm mxz
gzbisfz wt mxhm Kzyhbmezdm mxz yhgm nzhb hdk smg ybzgzdm fwdksmswd. Mxz
mbhdgywbmhmswd xhg qzzd ehsdmhsdzk kjbsdv mxz nzhb mw mxz tjcc zpmzdm
hjmxwbsrzk qn mxz zpsgmsdv chug; gwez seybwizezdmg xhiz qzzd zttzfmzk uxsfx
mxz yjqcsf sdmzbzgm gzzezk jbvzdmcn mw kzehdk, qjm dwm sdiwcisdv hdn
ehmzbshc hkksmswdhc zpyzdksmjbz; mxz fwdmbhfmwbg xhiz vzdzbhccn yzbtwbezk
mxzsb zdvhvzezdmg usmx tskzcsmn; mxz ywgmehgmzbg, usmx tzu zpfzymswdg, xhiz
bzdkzbzk mxzsb hffwjdmg hdk yhsk mxzsb ljhbmzbcn qhchdfzg usmx ybweymsmjkz,
hdk mxz uxwcz gzbisfz wt mxz Kzyhbmezdm xhg ehsdmhsdzk mxz zttsfszdfn twb
uxsfx sm xhg twb gzizbhc nzhbg qzzd ksgmsdvjsgxzk.

Mxz hfmg wt Fwdvbzgg zgmhqcsgxsdv dzu ehsc bwjmzg hdk bzljsbsdv ewbz
zpyzdgsiz gzbisfzg wd wmxzbg hdk mxz sdfbzhgsdv uhdmg wt mxz fwjdmbn xhiz
twb mxbzz nzhbg yhgm fhbbszk mxz zpyzdksmjbzg gwezmxsdv qznwdk mxz hffbjsdv
bzizdjzg, mxz zpfzgg xhisdv qzzd ezm jdmsc mxz yhgm nzhb qn mxz gjbycjg
uxsfx xhk ybziswjgcn hffjejchmzk. Mxhm gjbycjg xhisdv qzzd zpxhjgmzk hdk
mxz hdmsfsyhmzk sdfbzhgz sd mxz bzizdjz dwm xhisdv qzzd bzhcsrzk wusdv mw
mxz kzybzggswd sd mxz fweezbfshc qjgsdzgg wt mxz fwjdmbn, mxz tsdhdfzg wt
mxz Kzyhbmezdm zpxsqsm h gehcc kztsfszdfn hm mxz fcwgz wt mxz chgm tsgfhc
nzhb. Smg bzgwjbfzg, xwuzizb, hbz heycz, hdk mxz bzkjfzk bhmzg wt
fweyzdghmswd twb mxz mbhdgywbmhmswd gzbisfz uxsfx ehn qz zpyzfmzk wd mxz
tjmjbz czmmsdvg tbwe mxz vzdzbhc bzkjfmswd wt ybsfzg, usmx mxz sdfbzhgz wt
bzizdjz mxhm ehn bzhgwdhqcn qz hdmsfsyhmzk tbwe mxz bzisihc wt fweezbfshc
hfmsismn, ejgm gwwd ychfz mxz tsdhdfzg wt mxz Kzyhbmezdm sd h ybwgyzbwjg
fwdksmswd.

Fwdgskzbsdv mxz jdthiwbhqcz fsbfjegmhdfzg uxsfx xhiz zpsgmzk kjbsdv mxz
yhgm nzhb, sm sg h vbhmstnsdv bzgjcm mxhm mxz bzizdjz xhg dwm kzfcsdzk hg
fweyhbzk usmx mxz ybzfzksdv nzhb, qjm, wd mxz fwdmbhbn, zpxsqsmg h gehcc
sdfbzhgz, mxz fsbfjegmhdfzg bztzbbzk mw xhisdv xhk dw wmxzb zttzfm mxhd mw
fxzfo mxz zpyzfmzk sdfwez.

Sm uscc qz gzzd mxhm mxz Ywgmehgmzb-Vzdzbhc gjvvzgmg fzbmhsd seybwizezdmg
sd mxz zgmhqcsgxezdm kzgsvdzk mw bzkjfz mxz uzsvxm wt mxz ehscg, fxzhyzd
mxz mbhdgywbmhmswd, sdgjbz vbzhmzb bzvjchbsmn sd mxz gzbisfz, hdk gzfjbz h
fwdgskzbhqcz bzkjfmswd sd mxz bhmzg wt czmmzb ywgmhvz--hd wqazfm xsvxcn
kzgsbhqcz. Mxz gjqazfm sg wdz wt vzdzbhc sdmzbzgm mw mxz fweejdsmn, hdk sg
bzgyzfmtjccn bzfweezdkzk mw nwjb fwdgskzbhmswd.

Mxz gjyybzggswd wt mxz Htbsfhd gchiz mbhkz xhg bzfzsizk mxz fwdmsdjzk
hmmzdmswd wt mxz Vwizbdezdm. Mxz qbsv Kwcyxsd hdk gfxwwdzb Vbheyjg xhiz
qzzd zeycwnzk kjbsdv mxz chgm gzhgwd wd mxz fwhgm wt Htbsfh twb mxz yjbywgz
wt ybzizdmsdv gjfx ywbmswdg wt mxhm mbhkz hg uzbz ghsk mw qz ybwgzfjmzk
jdkzb mxz Hezbsfhd tchv. Htmzb fbjsgsdv wtt mxwgz yhbmg wt mxz fwhgm ewgm
jgjhccn bzgwbmzk mw qn gchizbg jdmsc mxz fweezdfzezdm wt mxz bhsdn gzhgwd,
mxzgz izggzcg bzmjbdzk mw mxz Jdsmzk Gmhmzg twb gjyycszg, hdk xhiz gsdfz
qzzd ksgyhmfxzk wd h gseschb gzbisfz.

Tbwe mxz bzywbmg wt mxz fweehdksdv wttsfzbg sm hyyzhbg mxhm mxz mbhkz sg
dwu ybsdfsyhccn fhbbszk wd jdkzb Ywbmjvjzgz fwcwbg, hdk mxzn zpybzgg mxz
wysdswd mxhm mxz hyybzxzdgswd wt mxzsb ybzgzdfz wd mxz gchiz fwhgm xhg sd h
vbzhm kzvbzz hbbzgmzk mxz ybwgmsmjmswd wt mxz Hezbsfhd tchv mw mxsg sdxjehd
yjbywgz. Sm sg xwyzk mxhm qn fwdmsdjsdv mw ehsdmhsd mxsg twbfz sd mxhm
ljhbmzb hdk qn mxz zpzbmswdg wt mxz wttsfzbg sd fweehdk ejfx uscc qz kwdz
mw yjm h gmwy mw uxhmzizb ywbmswd wt mxsg mbhttsf ehn xhiz qzzd fhbbszk wd
jdkzb mxz Hezbsfhd tchv hdk mw ybzizdm smg jgz sd h mbhkz uxsfx, uxscz sm
iswchmzg mxz chug, sg zljhccn hd wjmbhvz wd mxz bsvxmg wt wmxzbg hdk mxz
tzzcsdvg wt xjehdsmn. Mxz zttwbmg wt mxz gzizbhc Vwizbdezdmg uxw hbz
hdpswjgcn gzzosdv mw gjyybzgg mxsg mbhttsf ejgm, xwuzizb, qz ksbzfmzk
hvhsdgm mxz thfscsmszg httwbkzk qn uxhm hbz dwu bzfwvdsrzk hg czvsmsehmz
fweezbfshc yjbgjsmg qztwbz mxhm wqazfm fhd qz tjccn hffweycsgxzk.

Gjyycszg wt ybwisgswdg, uhmzb fhgog, ezbfxhdksgz, hdk hbmsfczg fwddzfmzk
usmx mxz ybwgzfjmswd wt mxz gchiz mbhkz hbz, sm sg jdkzbgmwwk, tbzzcn
fhbbszk qn izggzcg wt ksttzbzdm dhmswdg mw mxz gchiz thfmwbszg, hdk mxz
zttzfmg wt mxz thfmwbg hbz mbhdgywbmzk wyzdcn tbwe wdz gchiz gmhmswd mw
hdwmxzb usmxwjm sdmzbbjymswd wb yjdsgxezdm qn zsmxzb wt mxz dhmswdg mw
uxsfx mxzn qzcwdv zdvhvzk sd mxz fweezbfz wt mxhm bzvswd. S gjqesm mw nwjb
ajkvezdmg uxzmxzb mxsg Vwizbdezdm, xhisdv qzzd mxz tsbgm mw ybwxsqsm qn
hkzljhmz yzdhcmszg mxz gchiz mbhkz, mxz tsbgm mw kzfchbz sm ysbhfn, gxwjck
dwm qz mxz tsbgm hcgw mw twbqsk mw smg fsmsrzdg hcc mbhkz usmx mxz gchiz
thfmwbszg wd mxz fwhgm wt Htbsfh, vsisdv hd zpheycz mw hcc dhmswdg sd mxsg
bzgyzfm uxsfx st thsbcn twccwuzk fhd dwm thsc mw ybwkjfz mxz ewgm zttzfmsiz
bzgjcmg sd qbzhosdv jy mxwgz kzdg wt sdsljsmn.

E. IHD QJBZD