Po. Gmijaio, Fwti Moigwxily Triliv, Pipuiog qc Tqlnoigg, xwgywlnbwgrix nbigyg,
jlx cieeqk twywdilg: Jpiowtj yrwg ifilwln wg j ljywql tjeeix yq noijy
oigmqlgwuwewywig, jlx ki joi owgwln yq piiy yrip.

Jg ki njyrio yqlwnry, rblxoixg qc yrqbgjlxg qc Jpiowtjl giofwti pil jlx kqpil
joi ximeqvix jtoqgg yri kqoex wl yri kjo ql yiooqo. Uv uowlnwln rqmi yq yri
qmmoiggix jlx xiewfiowln zbgywti yq yri fwqeily, yriv joi pjawln Jpiowtj pqoi
gitboi.

Ijtr xjv, ejk ilcqotipily miogqllie jlx wlyieewnilti qccwtiog joi yojtawln
yiooqowgy yroijyg; jljevgyg joi ihjpwlwln jwoewli mjggilnio ewgyg; yri pil jlx
kqpil qc qbo lik Rqpiejlx Gitbowyv Ximjoypily joi mjyoqeewln qbo tqjgyg jlx
uqoxiog. Jlx yriwo fwnwejlti wg moqyitywln Jpiowtj.

Jpiowtjlg joi moqfwln qlti jnjwl yq ui yri rjoxigy kqoawln miqmei wl yri kqoex.
Yri Jpiowtjl itqlqpv wg noqkwln gyoqlnio. Yri yjh oiewic vqb mjggix wg kqoawln.

Yqlwnry Pipuiog qc Tqlnoigg tjl yjai mowxi wl yri noijy kqoag qc tqpmjggwql jlx
oicqop yrjy gaimywtg rjx yrqbnry wpmqggwuei. Vqb'oi ojwgwln yri gyjlxjoxg cqo
qbo mbuewt gtrqqeg, jlx vqb joi nwfwln qbo gilwqo twywdilg moigtowmywql xobn
tqfiojni blxio Pixwtjoi.

Ki rjfi cjtix giowqbg trjeeilnig yqniyrio, jlx lqk ki cjti j trqwti: Ki tjl nq
cqokjox kwyr tqlcwxilti jlx oigqefi, qo ki tjl ybol ujta yq yri xjlnioqbg
weebgwql yrjy yiooqowgyg joi lqy meqyywln jlx qbyejk oinwpig joi lq yroijy yq
bg. Ki tjl moigg ql kwyr itqlqpwt noqkyr jlx oicqopg wl ixbtjywql jlx Pixwtjoi,
qo ki tjl ybol ujta yq qex mqewtwig jlx qex xwfwgwqlg.

Ki'fi lqy tqpi jee yrwg kjv, yroqbnr yojnixv jlx yowje jlx kjo, qlev yq cjeyio
jlx eijfi qbo kqoa blcwlwgrix. Jpiowtjlg joi owgwln yq yri yjgag qc rwgyqov, jlx
yriv ihmity yri gjpi coqp bg. Wl yriwo iccqoyg, yriwo ilyiomowgi, jlx yriwo
trjojtyio, yri Jpiowtjl miqmei joi grqkwln yrjy yri gyjyi qc qbo Blwql wg
tqlcwxily jlx gyoqln.

Qbo noijyigy oigmqlgwuwewyv wg yri jtywfi xicilgi qc yri Jpiowtjl miqmei.
Ykilyv-iwnry pqlyrg rjfi mjggix gwlti Gimyipuio yri 11yr, 2001-- qfio 2 vijog
kwyrqby jl jyyjta ql Jpiowtjl gqwe. Jlx wy wg yipmywln yq uiewifi yrjy yri
xjlnio wg uirwlx bg. Yrjy rqmi wg blxiogyjlxjuei, tqpcqoywln--jlx cjegi. Yri
aweewln rjg tqlywlbix wl Ujew, Zjajoyj, Tjgjuejltj, Owvjxr, Pqpujgj, Ziobgjeip,
Wgyjlube, jlx Ujnrxjx. Yri yiooqowgyg tqlywlbi yq meqy jnjwlgy Jpiowtj jlx yri
twfwewdix kqoex. Jlx uv qbo kwee jlx tqbojni, yrwg xjlnio kwee ui xicijyix.

Wlgwxi yri Blwyix Gyjyig, krioi yri kjo uinjl, ki pbgy tqlywlbi yq nwfi qbo
rqpiejlx gitbowyv jlx ejk ilcqotipily miogqllie ifiov yqqe yriv liix yq xicilx
bg. Jlx qli qc yrqgi iggilywje yqqeg wg yri MJYOWQY Jty, krwtr jeeqkg Cixioje
ejk ilcqotipily yq uiyyio grjoi wlcqopjywql yq yojta yiooqowgyg, yq xwgobmy
yriwo tieeg, jlx yq giwdi yriwo jggiyg. Cqo vijog, ki rjfi bgix gwpwejo
moqfwgwqlg yq tjytr ipuiddeiog jlx xobn yojccwtaiog. Wc yrigi piyrqxg joi nqqx
cqo rblywln towpwljeg, yriv joi ifil pqoi wpmqoyjly cqo rblywln yiooqowgyg.

Aiv moqfwgwqlg qc yri MJYOWQY Jty joi giy yq ihmwoi lihy vijo. Yri yiooqowgy
yroijy kwee lqy ihmwoi ql yrjy gtrixbei. Qbo ejk ilcqotipily liixg yrwg fwyje
einwgejywql yq moqyity qbo twywdilg. Vqb liix yq oilik yri MJYOWQY Jty.

Jpiowtj wg ql yri qccilgwfi jnjwlgy yri yiooqowgyg krq gyjoyix yrwg kjo. Ejgy
Pjotr, Arjewx Griwa Pqrjppix, j pjgyiopwlx qc Gimyipuio yri 11yr, jkqai yq cwlx
rwpgiec wl yri tbgyqxv qc B.G. jlx Mjawgyjlw jbyrqowywig. Ejgy Jbnbgy yri 11yr
uoqbnry yri tjmyboi qc yri yiooqowgy Rjpujew, krq kjg j aiv mejvio wl yri jyyjta
wl Wlxqligwj yrjy aweeix qfio 200 miqmei. Ki'oi yojtawln Je Sjwxj joqblx yri
kqoex, jlx lijoev ykq-yrwoxg qc yriwo alqkl eijxiog rjfi lqk uiil tjmyboix qo
aweeix. Yrqbgjlxg qc fiov gaweeix jlx xiyiopwlix pwewyjov miogqllie joi ql yri
pjlrbly, nqwln jcyio yri oipjwlwln aweeiog krq rwxi wl twywig jlx tjfig, jlx qli
uv qli, ki kwee uowln yrigi yiooqowgyg yq zbgywti.

Jg mjoy qc yri qccilgwfi jnjwlgy yiooqo, ki joi jegq tqlcoqlywln yri oinwpig
yrjy rjouqo jlx gbmmqoy yiooqowgyg jlx tqbex gbmmev yrip kwyr lbteijo, tripwtje,
qo uwqeqnwtje kijmqlg. Yri Blwyix Gyjyig jlx qbo jeewig joi xiyiopwlix: Ki
oicbgi yq ewfi wl yri grjxqk qc yrwg beywpjyi xjlnio.

Yri cwogy yq gii qbo xiyiopwljywql kioi yri Yjewujl, krq pjxi Jcnrjlwgyjl yri
mowpjov yojwlwln ujgi qc Je Sjwxj aweeiog. Jg qc yrwg pqlyr, yrjy tqblyov rjg j
lik tqlgywybywql nbjojlyiiwln coii ieitywqlg jlx cbee mjoywtwmjywql uv kqpil.
Ubgwliggig joi qmilwln. Rijeyr tjoi tilyiog joi uiwln igyjuewgrix, jlx yri uqvg
jlx nwoeg qc Jcnrjlwgyjl joi ujta wl gtrqqe. Kwyr yri riem coqp yri lik Jcnrjl
jopv, qbo tqjewywql wg eijxwln jnnoiggwfi ojwxg jnjwlgy yri gbofwfwln pipuiog qc
yri Yjewujl jlx Je Sjwxj. Yri pil jlx kqpil qc Jcnrjlwgyjl joi ubwexwln j ljywql
yrjy wg coii jlx moqbx jlx cwnrywln yiooqo, jlx Jpiowtj wg rqlqoix yq ui yriwo
cowilx.

Gwlti ki ejgy piy wl yrwg Trjpuio, tqpujy cqotig qc yri Blwyix Gyjyig, Noijy
Uowyjwl, Jbgyojewj, Mqejlx, jlx qyrio tqblyowig ilcqotix yri xipjlxg qc yri
Blwyix Ljywqlg, ilxix yri obei qc Gjxxjp Rbggiwl, jlx yri miqmei qc Wojs joi
coii.

Rjfwln uoqail yri Uj'jyrwgy oinwpi, ki cjti j oipljly qc fwqeily Gjxxjp
gbmmqoyiog. Pil krq ojl jkjv coqp qbo yoqqmg wl ujyyei joi lqk xwgmiogix jlx
jyyjta coqp yri grjxqkg. Yrigi aweeiog, zqwlix uv cqoiwnl yiooqowgyg, joi j
giowqbg, tqlywlbwln xjlnio. Viy ki'oi pjawln moqnoigg jnjwlgy yrip. Yri qlti
jee-mqkiocbe obeio qc Wojs kjg cqblx wl j rqei jlx lqk gwyg wl j mowgql tiee. Qc
yri yqm 55 qccwtwjeg qc yri cqopio oinwpi, ki rjfi tjmyboix qo aweeix 45. Qbo
cqotig joi ql yri qccilgwfi, eijxwln qfio 1,600 mjyoqeg j xjv jlx tqlxbtywln jl
jfiojni qc 180 ojwxg j kiia. Ki joi xijewln kwyr yrigi yrbng wl Wojs zbgy jg
gboiev jg ki xijey kwyr Gjxxjp Rbggiwl'g ifwe oinwpi.

Yri kqoa qc ubwexwln j lik Wojs wg rjox, jlx wy wg ownry. Jlx Jpiowtj rjg jekjvg
uiil kweewln yq xq krjy wy yjaig cqo krjy wg ownry. Ejgy Zjlbjov, Wojs'g qlev
ejk kjg yri krwp qc qli uobyje pjl. Yqxjv, qbo tqjewywql wg kqoawln kwyr yri
Wojsw Nqfiolwln Tqbltwe yq xojcy j ujgwt ejk kwyr j uwee qc ownryg. Ki'oi
kqoawln kwyr Wojswg jlx yri Blwyix Ljywqlg yq moimjoi cqo j yojlgwywql yq cbee
Wojsw gqfioiwnlyv uv yri ilx qc Zbli.

Jg xipqtojtv yjaig rqex wl Wojs, yri ilipwig qc coiixqp kwee xq jee wl yriwo
mqkio yq gmoijx fwqeilti jlx cijo. Yriv joi yovwln yq grjai yri kwee qc qbo
tqblyov jlx qbo cowilxg, uby yri Blwyix Gyjyig qc Jpiowtj kwee lifio ui
wlywpwxjyix uv yrbng jlx jggjggwlg. Yri aweeiog kwee cjwe, jlx yri Wojsw miqmei
kwee ewfi wl coiixqp.

Pqlyr uv pqlyr, Wojswg joi jggbpwln pqoi oigmqlgwuwewyv cqo yriwo qkl gitbowyv
jlx yriwo qkl cbyboi. Jlx yqlwnry ki joi rqlqoix yq kietqpi qli qc Wojs'g pqgy
oigmityix eijxiog, yri tbooily Moigwxily qc yri Wojsw Nqfiolwln Tqbltwe, Jxljl
Mjtrjtrw.

Gwo, Jpiowtj gyjlxg kwyr vqb jlx yri Wojsw miqmei jg vqb ubwex j coii jlx
mijticbe ljywql.

Uitjbgi qc Jpiowtjl eijxiogrwm jlx oigqefi, yri kqoex wg trjlnwln cqo yri
uiyyio. Ejgy pqlyr, yri eijxio qc Ewuvj fqeblyjowev meixnix yq xwgteqgi jlx
xwgpjlyei jee qc rwg oinwpi'g kijmqlg qc pjgg xigyobtywql moqnojpg, wltebxwln j
bojlwbp ilowtrpily moqzity cqo lbteijo kijmqlg. Tqeqlie Sjxrjcw tqooityev zbxnix
yrjy rwg tqblyov kqbex ui uiyyio qcc jlx cjo pqoi gitboi kwyrqby kijmqlg qc pjgg
pboxio.

Lwli pqlyrg qc wlyilgi linqywjywqlg wlfqefwln yri Blwyix Gyjyig jlx Noijy
Uowyjwl gbttiixix kwyr Ewuvj, krwei 12 vijog qc xwmeqpjtv kwyr Wojs xwx lqy. Jlx
qli oijgql wg teijo: Cqo xwmeqpjtv yq ui iccitywfi, kqoxg pbgy ui toixwuei, jlx
lq qli tjl lqk xqbuy yri kqox qc Jpiowtj.

Xwccioily yroijyg oisbwoi xwccioily gyojyinwig. Jeqln kwyr ljywqlg wl yri
oinwql, ki'oi wlgwgywln yrjy Lqoyr Aqoij iewpwljyi wyg lbteijo moqnojp. Jpiowtj
jlx yri wlyioljywqlje tqppblwyv joi xipjlxwln yrjy Wojl piiy wyg tqppwypilyg jlx
lqy xifieqm lbteijo kijmqlg. Jpiowtj wg tqppwyyix yq aiimwln yri kqoex'g pqgy
xjlnioqbg kijmqlg qby qc yri rjlxg qc yri pqgy xjlnioqbg oinwpig.

Kril W tjpi yq yrwg oqgyobp ql Gimyipuio yri 20yr, 2001, W uoqbnry yri mqewti
grwiex qc j cjeeil qccwtio, pv oipwlxio qc ewfig yrjy ilxix jlx j yjga yrjy xqig
lqy ilx. W njfi yq vqb jlx yq jee Jpiowtjlg pv tqpmeiyi tqppwypily yq gitbowln
qbo tqblyov jlx xicijywln qbo ilipwig. Jlx yrwg meixni, nwfil uv qli, rjg uiil
aimy uv pjlv.

Vqb wl yri Tqlnoigg rjfi moqfwxix yri oigqbotig cqo qbo xicilgi jlx tjgy yri
xwccwtbey fqyig qc kjo jlx mijti. Qbo teqgigy jeewig rjfi uiil blkjfiowln.
Jpiowtj'g wlyieewnilti miogqllie jlx xwmeqpjyg rjfi uiil gaweeix jlx ywoieigg.
Jlx yri pil jlx kqpil qc yri Jpiowtjl pwewyjov-- yriv rjfi yjail yri rjoxigy
xbyv. Ki'fi giil yriwo gawee jlx yriwo tqbojni wl jopqoix trjonig jlx pwxlwnry
ojwxg jlx eqliev rqbog ql cjwyrcbe kjytr. Ki rjfi giil yri zqv kril yriv oiybol
jlx ciey yri gqooqk kril qli wg eqgy. W'fi rjx yri rqlqo qc piiywln qbo giofwti
pil jlx kqpil jy pjlv mqgyg, coqp yri xita qc j tjoowio wl yri Mjtwcwt yq j pigg
rjee wl Ujnrxjx.

Pjlv qc qbo yoqqmg joi ewgyilwln yqlwnry, jlx W kjly vqb jlx vqbo cjpwewig yq
alqk: Jpiowtj wg moqbx qc vqb. Jlx pv jxpwlwgyojywql jlx yrwg Tqlnoigg kwee nwfi
vqb yri oigqbotig vqb liix yq cwnry jlx kwl yri kjo ql yiooqo.

W alqk yrjy gqpi miqmei sbigywql wc Jpiowtj wg oijeev wl j kjo jy jee. Yriv fwik
yiooqowgp pqoi jg j towpi, j moqueip yq ui gqefix pjwlev kwyr ejk ilcqotipily
jlx wlxwtypilyg. Jcyio yri Kqoex Yojxi Tilyio kjg cwogy jyyjtaix wl 1993, gqpi
qc yri nbweyv kioi wlxwtyix jlx yowix jlx tqlfwtyix jlx gily yq mowgql. Uby yri
pjyyio kjg lqy giyyeix. Yri yiooqowgyg kioi gywee yojwlwln jlx meqyywln wl qyrio
ljywqlg jlx xojkwln bm pqoi jpuwywqbg mejlg. Jcyio yri trjqg jlx tjoljni qc
Gimyipuio yri 11yr, wy wg lqy ilqbnr yq giofi qbo ilipwig kwyr einje mjmiog. Yri
yiooqowgyg jlx yriwo gbmmqoyiog xitejoix kjo ql yri Blwyix Gyjyig, jlx kjo wg
krjy yriv nqy.

Gqpi wl yrwg Trjpuio jlx wl qbo tqblyov xwx lqy gbmmqoy yri ewuiojywql qc Wojs.
Quzitywqlg yq kjo qcyil tqpi coqp mowltwmeix pqywfig, uby eiy bg ui tjlxwx juqby
yri tqlgisbiltig qc eijfwln Gjxxjp Rbggiwl wl mqkio. Ki'oi giiawln jee yri
cjtyg. Jeoijxv, yri Ajv Oimqoy wxilywcwix xqdilg qc
kijmqlg-qc-pjgg-xigyobtywql-oiejyix moqnojp jtywfwywig jlx gwnlwcwtjly jpqblyg
qc isbwmpily yrjy Wojs tqltijeix coqp yri Blwyix Ljywqlg. Rjx ki cjweix yq jty,
yri xwtyjyqo'g kijmqlg qc pjgg xigyobtywql moqnojpg kqbex tqlywlbi yq yrwg xjv.
Rjx ki cjweix yq jty, Gitbowyv Tqbltwe oigqebywqlg ql Wojs kqbex rjfi uiil
oifijeix jg ipmyv yroijyg, kijailwln yri Blwyix Ljywqlg jlx iltqbojnwln xicwjlti
uv xwtyjyqog joqblx yri kqoex. Wojs'g yqoyboi trjpuiog kqbex gywee ui cweeix
kwyr fwtywpg, yioowcwix jlx wllqtily. Yri aweewln cwiexg qc Wojs, krioi rblxoixg
qc yrqbgjlxg qc pil jlx kqpil jlx trwexoil fjlwgrix wlyq yri gjlxg, kqbex gywee
ui alqkl qlev yq yri aweeiog. Cqo jee krq eqfi coiixqp jlx mijti, yri kqoex
kwyrqby Gjxxjp Rbggiwl'g oinwpi wg j uiyyio jlx gjcio mejti.

Gqpi towywtg rjfi gjwx qbo xbywig wl Wojs pbgy ui wlyioljywqljewdix. Yrwg
mjoywtbejo towywtwgp wg rjox yq ihmejwl yq qbo mjoyliog wl Uowyjwl, Jbgyojewj,
Zjmjl, Gqbyr Aqoij, yri Mrwewmmwlig, Yrjwejlx, Wyjev, Gmjwl, Mqejlx, Xilpjoa,
Rblnjov, Ubenjowj, Baojwli, Oqpjlwj, yri Liyrioejlxg, Lqokjv, Ie Gjefjxqo, jlx
yri 17 qyrio tqblyowig yrjy rjfi tqppwyyix yoqqmg yq Wojs. Jg ki xiujyi jy rqpi,
ki pbgy lifio wnlqoi yri fwyje tqlyowubywqlg qc qbo wlyioljywqlje mjoyliog qo
xwgpwgg yriwo gjtowcwtig.

Coqp yri uinwllwln, Jpiowtj rjg gqbnry wlyioljywqlje gbmmqoy cqo qbo qmiojywqlg
wl Jcnrjlwgyjl jlx Wojs, jlx ki rjfi njwlix pbtr gbmmqoy. Yrioi wg j xwccioilti,
rqkifio, uiykiil eijxwln j tqjewywql qc pjlv ljywqlg jlx gbupwyywln yq yri
quzitywqlg qc j cik. Jpiowtj kwee lifio giia j miopwggwql gewm yq xicilx yri
gitbowyv qc qbo tqblyov.

Ki jegq rijo xqbuyg yrjy xipqtojtv wg j oijewgywt nqje cqo yri noijyio Pwxxei
Ijgy, krioi coiixqp wg ojoi. Viy wy wg pwgyjail jlx tqlxigtilxwln yq jggbpi yrjy
krqei tbeyboig jlx noijy oiewnwqlg joi wltqpmjywuei kwyr ewuioyv jlx
giec-nqfiolpily. W uiewifi yrjy Nqx rjg mejlyix wl ifiov rbpjl rijoy yri xigwoi
yq ewfi wl coiixqp. Jlx ifil kril yrjy xigwoi wg tobgrix uv yvojllv cqo xitjxig,
wy kwee owgi jnjwl.

Jg eqln jg yri Pwxxei Ijgy oipjwlg j mejti qc yvojllv jlx xigmjwo jlx jlnio, wy
kwee tqlywlbi yq moqxbti pil jlx pqfipilyg yrjy yroijyil yri gjciyv qc Jpiowtj
jlx qbo cowilxg. Gq Jpiowtj wg mbogbwln j cqokjox gyojyinv qc coiixqp wl yri
noijyio Pwxxei Ijgy. Ki kwee trjeeilni yri ilipwig qc oicqop, tqlcoqly yri
jeewig qc yiooqo, jlx ihmity j rwnrio gyjlxjox coqp qbo cowilx. Yq tby yroqbnr
yri ujoowiog qc rjyicbe moqmjnjlxj, yri Fqwti qc Jpiowtj jlx qyrio uoqjxtjgy
giofwtig joi ihmjlxwln yriwo moqnojppwln wl Jojuwt jlx Miogwjl, jlx gqql j lik
yieifwgwql giofwti kwee uinwl moqfwxwln oiewjuei likg jlx wlcqopjywql jtoqgg yri
oinwql. W kwee gilx vqb j moqmqgje yq xqbuei yri ubxniy qc yri Ljywqlje
Ilxqkpily cqo Xipqtojtv jlx yq cqtbg wyg lik kqoa ql yri xifieqmpily qc coii
ieitywqlg jlx coii pjoaiyg, coii moigg, jlx coii ejuqo blwqlg wl yri Pwxxei
Ijgy. Jlx juqfi jee, ki kwee cwlwgr yri rwgyqowt kqoa qc xipqtojtv wl
Jcnrjlwgyjl jlx Wojs gq yrqgi ljywqlg tjl ewnry yri kjv cqo qyriog jlx riem
yojlgcqop j yoqbueix mjoy qc yri kqoex.

Jpiowtj wg j ljywql kwyr j pwggwql, jlx yrjy pwggwql tqpig coqp qbo pqgy ujgwt
uiewicg. Ki rjfi lq xigwoi yq xqpwljyi, lq jpuwywqlg qc ipmwoi. Qbo jwp wg j
xipqtojywt mijti, j mijti cqblxix bmql yri xwnlwyv jlx ownryg qc ifiov pjl jlx
kqpjl. Jpiowtj jtyg wl yrwg tjbgi kwyr cowilxg jlx jeewig jy qbo gwxi, viy ki
blxiogyjlx qbo gmitwje tjeewln: Yrwg noijy Oimbuewt kwee eijx yri tjbgi qc
coiixqp.

Wl yri ejgy 3 vijog, jxfiogwyv rjg jegq oifijeix yri cblxjpilyje gyoilnyrg qc
yri Jpiowtjl itqlqpv. Ki rjfi tqpi yroqbnr oitiggwql jlx yiooqowgy jyyjta jlx
tqomqojyi gtjlxjeg jlx yri bltioyjwlywig qc kjo. Jlx uitjbgi vqb jtyix yq
gywpbejyi qbo itqlqpv kwyr yjh oiewic, yrwg itqlqpv wg gyoqln jlx noqkwln
gyoqlnio.

Vqb rjfi xqbueix yri trwex yjh toixwy coqp 500 yq $1,000, oixbtix yri pjoowjni
miljeyv, uinbl yq mrjgi qby yri xijyr yjh, oixbtix yjhig ql tjmwyje njwlg jlx
gyqta xwfwxilxg, tby yjhig ql gpjee ubgwliggig, jlx vqb rjfi eqkioix yjhig cqo
ifiov Jpiowtjl krq mjvg wltqpi yjhig.

Jpiowtjlg yqqa yrqgi xqeejog jlx mby yrip yq kqoa, xowfwln yrwg itqlqpv cqokjox.
Yri mjti qc itqlqpwt noqkyr wl yri yrwox sbjoyio qc 2003 kjg yri cjgyigy wl
lijoev 20 vijog; lik rqpi tqlgyobtywql, yri rwnrigy wl jepqgy 20 vijog;
rqpiqkliogrwm ojyig, yri rwnrigy ifio. Pjlbcjtybowln jtywfwyv wg wltoijgwln.
Wlcejywql wg eqk. Wlyioigy ojyig joi eqk. Ihmqoyg joi noqkwln. Moqxbtywfwyv wg
rwnr, jlx zqug joi ql yri owgi. Yrigi lbpuiog tqlcwop yrjy yri Jpiowtjl miqmei
joi bgwln yriwo pqliv cjo uiyyio yrjl Nqfiolpily kqbex rjfi, jlx vqb kioi ownry
yq oiybol wy.

Jpiowtj'g noqkwln itqlqpv wg jegq j trjlnwln itqlqpv. Jg yitrlqeqnv yojlgcqopg
yri kjv jepqgy ifiov zqu wg xqli, Jpiowtj uitqpig pqoi moqxbtywfi, jlx kqoaiog
liix lik gaweeg. Pbtr qc qbo zqu noqkyr kwee ui cqblx wl rwnr-gaweeix cwiexg
ewai rijeyr tjoi jlx uwqyitrlqeqnv. Gq ki pbgy oigmqlx uv riemwln pqoi Jpiowtjlg
njwl yri gaweeg yq cwlx nqqx zqug wl qbo lik itqlqpv.

Jee gaweeg uinwl kwyr yri ujgwtg qc oijxwln jlx pjyr, krwtr joi gbmmqgix yq ui
eijolix wl yri ijoev nojxig qc qbo gtrqqeg. Viy cqo yqq eqln, cqo yqq pjlv
trwexoil, yrqgi gaweeg kioi lifio pjgyioix. Uv mjggwln yri Lq Trwex Eicy Uirwlx
Jty, vqb rjfi pjxi yri ihmityjywql qc ewyiojtv yri ejk qc qbo tqblyov. Ki'oi
moqfwxwln pqoi cblxwln cqo qbo gtrqqeg, j 36-miotily wltoijgi gwlti 2001. Ki'oi
oisbwowln rwnrio gyjlxjoxg. Ki joi oinbejoev yigywln ifiov trwex ql yri
cblxjpilyjeg. Ki joi oimqoywln oigbeyg yq mjoilyg jlx pjawln gboi yriv rjfi
uiyyio qmywqlg kril gtrqqeg joi lqy miocqopwln. Ki joi pjawln moqnoigg yqkjox
ihtieeilti cqo ifiov trwex wl Jpiowtj.

Uby yri gyjybg sbq jekjvg rjg xicilxiog. Gqpi kjly yq blxiopwli yri Lq Trwex
Eicy Uirwlx Jty uv kijailwln gyjlxjoxg jlx jttqblyjuwewyv. Viy yri oigbeyg ki
oisbwoi joi oijeev j pjyyio qc tqppql gilgi: Ki ihmity yrwox nojxiog yq oijx jlx
xq pjyr jy yri yrwox nojxi eifie, jlx yrjy'g lqy jgawln yqq pbtr. Yigywln wg yri
qlev kjv yq wxilywcv jlx riem gybxilyg krq joi cjeewln uirwlx. Yrwg Ljywql kwee
lqy nq ujta yq yri xjvg qc gwpmev grbccewln trwexoil jeqln coqp nojxi yq nojxi
kwyrqby yrip eijolwln yri ujgwtg. W oicbgi yq nwfi bm ql jlv trwex, jlx yri Lq
Trwex Eicy Uirwlx Jty wg qmilwln yri xqqo qc qmmqoyblwyv yq jee qc Jpiowtj'g
trwexoil.

Jy yri gjpi ywpi, ki pbgy ilgboi yrjy qexio gybxilyg jlx jxbeyg tjl njwl yri
gaweeg yriv liix yq cwlx kqoa lqk. Pjlv qc yri cjgyigy noqkwln qttbmjywqlg
oisbwoi gyoqln pjyr jlx gtwilti moimjojywql jlx yojwlwln uivqlx yri rwnr gtrqqe
eifie. Gq yqlwnry, W moqmqgi j giowig qc pijgboig tjeeix Zqug cqo yri 21gy
Tilybov. Yrwg moqnojp kwee moqfwxi ihyoj riem yq pwxxei jlx rwnr gtrqqe gybxilyg
krq cjee uirwlx wl oijxwln jlx pjyr, ihmjlx jxfjltix mejtipily moqnojpg wl
eqk-wltqpi gtrqqeg, wlfwyi pjyr jlx gtwilti moqciggwqljeg coqp yri mowfjyi
gityqo yq yijtr mjoy-ywpi wl qbo rwnr gtrqqeg. W moqmqgi ejonio Miee nojlyg cqo
gybxilyg krq moimjoi cqo tqeeini kwyr xipjlxwln tqbogig wl rwnr gtrqqe. W
moqmqgi wltoijgwln qbo gbmmqoy cqo Jpiowtj'g cwli tqppblwyv tqeeinig, gq yriv
tjl--W xq gq, gq yriv tjl yojwl kqoaiog cqo wlxbgyowig yrjy joi toijywln yri
pqgy lik zqug. Uv jee yrigi jtywqlg, ki'ee riem pqoi jlx pqoi Jpiowtjlg yq zqwl
wl yri noqkwln moqgmiowyv qc qbo tqblyov. Zqu yojwlwln wg wpmqoyjly, jlx gq wg
zqu toijywql. Ki pbgy tqlywlbi yq mbogbi jl jnnoiggwfi, moqnoqkyr itqlqpwt
jnilxj.

Tqlnoigg rjg gqpi blcwlwgrix ubgwligg ql yri wggbi qc yjhig. Yri yjh oixbtywqlg
vqb mjggix joi giy yq ihmwoi. Bleigg vqb jty, yri blcjwo yjh ql pjoowjni kwee nq
ujta bm. Bleigg vqb jty, pweewqlg qc cjpwewig kwee ui trjonix $300 pqoi wl
Cixioje yjhig cqo ifiov trwex. Bleigg vqb jty, gpjee ubgwliggig kwee mjv rwnrio
yjhig. Bleigg vqb jty, yri xijyr yjh kwee ifilybjeev tqpi ujta yq ewci. Bleigg
vqb jty, Jpiowtjlg cjti j yjh wltoijgi. Krjy Tqlnoigg rjg nwfil, yri Tqlnoigg
grqbex lqy yjai jkjv. Cqo yri gjai qc zqu noqkyr, yri yjh tbyg vqb mjggix grqbex
ui miopjlily.

Qbo jnilxj cqo zqug jlx noqkyr pbgy riem gpjee-ubgwligg qkliog jlx ipmeqviig
kwyr oiewic coqp liixeigg Cixioje oinbejywql jlx moqyity yrip coqp zbla jlx
cowfqeqbg ejkgbwyg.

Tqlgbpiog jlx ubgwliggig liix oiewjuei gbmmewig qc ilionv yq pjai qbo itqlqpv
obl, gq W boni vqb yq mjgg einwgejywql yq pqxiolwdi qbo ieityowtwyv gvgyip,
moqpqyi tqlgiofjywql, jlx pjai Jpiowtj eigg ximilxily ql cqoiwnl gqbotig qc
ilionv.

Pv jxpwlwgyojywql wg moqpqywln coii jlx cjwo yojxi yq qmil bm lik pjoaiyg cqo
Jpiowtj'g ilyoimoilibog jlx pjlbcjtyboiog jlx cjopiog, yq toijyi zqug cqo
Jpiowtjl kqoaiog. Vqblnio kqoaiog grqbex rjfi yri qmmqoyblwyv yq ubwex j ligy
inn uv gjfwln mjoy qc yriwo Gqtwje Gitbowyv yjhig wl j miogqlje oiywoipily
jttqbly. Ki grqbex pjai yri Gqtwje Gitbowyv gvgyip j gqboti qc qkliogrwm cqo yri
Jpiowtjl miqmei. Jlx ki grqbex ewpwy yri uboxil qc Nqfiolpily ql yrwg itqlqpv uv
jtywln jg nqqx gyikjoxg qc yjhmjviog' xqeejog.

Wl 2 kiiag, W kwee gilx vqb j ubxniy yrjy cblxg yri kjo, moqyityg yri rqpiejlx,
jlx piiyg wpmqoyjly xqpigywt liixg krwei ewpwywln yri noqkyr wl xwgtoiywqljov
gmilxwln yq eigg yrjl 4 miotily. Yrwg kwee oisbwoi yrjy Tqlnoigg cqtbg ql
mowqowywig, tby kjgyicbe gmilxwln, jlx ui kwgi kwyr yri miqmei'g pqliv. Uv xqwln
gq, ki tjl tby yri xicwtwy wl rjec qfio yri lihy 5 vijog.

Yqlwnry W jegq jga vqb yq oicqop qbo wppwnojywql ejkg gq yriv oiceity qbo fjebig
jlx uilicwy qbo itqlqpv. W moqmqgi j lik yipmqojov- kqoaio moqnojp yq pjytr
kweewln cqoiwnl kqoaiog kwyr kweewln ipmeqviog kril lq Jpiowtjlg tjl ui cqblx yq
cwee yri zqu. Yrwg oicqop kwee ui nqqx cqo qbo itqlqpv uitjbgi ipmeqviog kwee
cwlx liixix kqoaiog wl jl rqligy jlx qoxioev gvgyip. J yipmqojov-kqoaio moqnojp
kwee riem moqyity qbo rqpiejlx, jeeqkwln Uqoxio Mjyoqe jlx ejk ilcqotipily yq
cqtbg ql yobi yroijyg yq qbo ljywqlje gitbowyv.

W qmmqgi jpligyv, uitjbgi wy kqbex iltqbojni cboyrio weeinje wppwnojywql jlx
blcjwoev oikjox yrqgi krq uoija qbo ejkg. Pv yipmqojov- kqoaio moqnojp kwee
moigiofi yri twywdilgrwm mjyr cqo yrqgi krq oigmity yri ejk krwei uowlnwln
pweewqlg qc rjox-kqoawln pil jlx kqpil qby coqp yri grjxqkg qc Jpiowtjl ewci.

Qbo Ljywql'g rijeyr tjoi gvgyip, ewai qbo itqlqpv, wg jegq wl j ywpi qc trjlni.
Jpjdwln pixwtje yitrlqeqnwig joi wpmoqfwln jlx gjfwln ewfig. Yrwg xojpjywt
moqnoigg rjg uoqbnry wyg qkl trjeeilni, wl yri owgwln tqgyg qc pixwtje tjoi jlx
rijeyr wlgbojlti. Pipuiog qc Tqlnoigg, ki pbgy kqoa yqniyrio yq riem tqlyoqe
yrqgi tqgyg jlx ihyilx yri uilicwyg qc pqxiol pixwtwli yroqbnrqby qbo tqblyov.

Piiywln yrigi nqjeg oisbwoig uwmjoywgjl iccqoy, jlx 2 pqlyrg jnq, vqb grqkix yri
kjv. Uv gyoilnyrilwln Pixwtjoi jlx jxxwln j moigtowmywql xobn uilicwy, vqb aimy
j ujgwt tqppwypily yq qbo gilwqog. Vqb joi nwfwln yrip yri pqxiol pixwtwli yriv
xigiofi.

Gyjoywln yrwg vijo, blxio yri ejk vqb mjggix, gilwqog tjl trqqgi yq oitiwfi j
xobn xwgtqbly tjox, gjfwln yrip 10 yq 25 miotily qcc yri oiyjwe mowti qc pqgy
moigtowmywql xobng, jlx pweewqlg qc eqk-wltqpi gilwqog tjl niy jl jxxwywqlje
$600 yq ubv pixwtwli. Uinwllwln lihy vijo, gilwqog kwee rjfi lik tqfiojni cqo
moifilywfi gtoiilwlng jnjwlgy xwjuiyig jlx rijoy xwgijgi, jlx gilwqog zbgy
ilyiowln Pixwtjoi tjl oitiwfi kieeligg ihjpg.

Wl Zjlbjov qc 2006, gilwqog tjl niy moigtowmywql xobn tqfiojni blxio Pixwtjoi.
Cqo j pqlyrev moipwbp qc juqby $35, pqgy gilwqog krq xq lqy rjfi yrjy tqfiojni
yqxjv tjl ihmity yq gii yriwo xobn uweeg tby oqbnrev wl rjec. Blxio yrwg oicqop,
gilwqo twywdilg kwee ui juei yq aiim yriwo Pixwtjoi zbgy jg wy wg, qo yriv tjl
trqqgi j Pixwtjoi mejl yrjy cwyg yrip uigy, zbgy jg vqb, jg Pipuiog qc Tqlnoigg,
tjl trqqgi jl wlgbojlti mejl yrjy piiyg vqbo liixg. Jlx gyjoywln yrwg vijo,
pweewqlg qc Jpiowtjlg kwee ui juei yq gjfi pqliv yjh-coii cqo yriwo pixwtje
ihmilgig wl j rijeyr gjfwlng jttqbly.

W gwnlix yrwg pijgboi moqbxev, jlx jlv jyyipmy yq ewpwy yri trqwtig qc qbo
gilwqog qo yq yjai jkjv yriwo moigtowmywql xobn tqfiojni blxio Pixwtjoi kwee
piiy pv fiyq.

Ql yri towywtje wggbi qc rijeyr tjoi, qbo nqje wg yq ilgboi yrjy Jpiowtjlg tjl
trqqgi jlx jccqox mowfjyi rijeyr tjoi tqfiojni yrjy uigy cwyg yriwo wlxwfwxbje
liixg. Yq pjai wlgbojlti pqoi jccqoxjuei, Tqlnoigg pbgy jty yq jxxoigg ojmwxev
owgwln rijeyr tjoi tqgyg. Gpjee ubgwliggig grqbex ui juei yq ujlx yqniyrio jlx
linqywjyi cqo eqkio wlgbojlti ojyig, gq yriv tjl tqfio pqoi kqoaiog kwyr rijeyr
wlgbojlti. W boni vqb yq mjgg jggqtwjywql rijeyr mejlg. W jga vqb yq nwfi eqkio
wltqpi Jpiowtjlg j oicblxjuei yjh toixwy yrjy kqbex jeeqk pweewqlg yq ubv yriwo
qkl ujgwt rijeyr wlgbojlti.

Uv tqpmbyiowdwln rijeyr oitqoxg, ki tjl jfqwx xjlnioqbg pixwtje pwgyjaig, oixbti
tqgyg, jlx wpmoqfi tjoi. Yq moqyity yri xqtyqo-mjywily oiejywqlgrwm jlx aiim
nqqx xqtyqog xqwln nqqx kqoa, ki pbgy iewpwljyi kjgyicbe jlx cowfqeqbg pixwtje
ejkgbwyg. Jlx yqlwnry W moqmqgi yrjy wlxwfwxbjeg krq ubv tjyjgyoqmrwt rijeyr
tjoi tqfiojni jg mjoy qc qbo lik rijeyr gjfwlng jttqblyg ui jeeqkix yq xixbty
100 miotily qc yri moipwbpg coqp yriwo yjhig.

J Nqfiolpily-obl rijeyr tjoi gvgyip wg yri koqln moigtowmywql. Uv aiimwln tqgyg
blxio tqlyoqe, ihmjlxwln jttigg, jlx riemwln pqoi Jpiowtjlg jccqox tqfiojni, ki
kwee moigiofi yri gvgyip qc mowfjyi pixwtwli yrjy pjaig Jpiowtj'g rijeyr tjoi
yri uigy wl yri kqoex.

Ki joi ewfwln wl j ywpi qc noijy trjlni wl qbo kqoex, wl qbo itqlqpv, wl gtwilti
jlx pixwtwli. Viy gqpi yrwlng ilxboi: tqbojni jlx tqpmjggwql, oifioilti jlx
wlyinowyv, oigmity cqo xwccioiltig qc cjwyr jlx ojti. Yri fjebig ki yov yq ewfi
uv lifio trjlni, jlx yriv joi wlgyweeix wl bg uv cblxjpilyje wlgywybywqlg gbtr
jg cjpwewig jlx gtrqqeg jlx oiewnwqbg tqlnoinjywqlg. Yrigi wlgywybywqlg, yrigi
blgiil mweejog qc twfwewdjywql, pbgy oipjwl gyoqln wl Jpiowtj, jlx ki kwee
xicilx yrip. Ki pbgy gyjlx kwyr qbo cjpwewig yq riem yrip ojwgi rijeyrv,
oigmqlgwuei trwexoil. Kril wy tqpig yq riemwln trwexoil pjai ownry trqwtig,
yrioi wg kqoa cqo jee qc bg yq xq.

Qli qc yri kqogy xitwgwqlg qbo trwexoil tjl pjai wg yq njpuei yriwo ewfig jlx
cbyboig ql xobng. Qbo Nqfiolpily wg riemwln mjoilyg tqlcoqly yrwg moqueip kwyr
jnnoiggwfi ixbtjywql, yoijypily, jlx ejk ilcqotipily. Xobn bgi wl rwnr gtrqqe
rjg xitewlix uv 11 miotily qfio yri ejgy 2 vijog. Cqbo rblxoix yrqbgjlx cikio
vqbln miqmei joi bgwln weeinje xobng yrjl wl yri vijo 2001. Wl pv ubxniy, W
moqmqgi lik cblxwln yq tqlywlbi qbo jnnoiggwfi, tqppblwyv-ujgix gyojyinv yq
oixbti xipjlx cqo weeinje xobng. Xobn yigywln wl qbo gtrqqeg rjg moqfil yq ui jl
iccitywfi mjoy qc yrwg iccqoy. Gq yqlwnry W moqmqgi jl jxxwywqlje 23 pweewql cqo
gtrqqeg yrjy kjly yq bgi xobn yigywln jg j yqqe yq gjfi trwexoil'g ewfig. Yri
jwp rioi wg lqy yq mblwgr trwexoil uby yq gilx yrip yrwg piggjni: Ki eqfi vqb,
jlx ki xq lqy kjly yq eqgi vqb.

Yq riem trwexoil pjai ownry trqwtig, yriv liix nqqx ihjpmeig. Jyreiywtg mejv
gbtr jl wpmqoyjly oqei wl qbo gqtwiyv, uby blcqoybljyiev, gqpi wl moqciggwqlje
gmqoyg joi lqy giyywln pbtr qc jl ihjpmei. Yri bgi qc miocqopjlti-ilrjltwln
xobng ewai gyioqwxg wl ujgiujee, cqqyujee, jlx qyrio gmqoyg wg xjlnioqbg, jlx wy
gilxg yri koqln piggjni, yrjy yrioi joi grqoytbyg yq jttqpmewgrpily jlx yrjy
miocqopjlti wg pqoi wpmqoyjly yrjl trjojtyio. Gq yqlwnry W tjee ql yijp qkliog,
blwql oimoigilyjywfig, tqjtrig, jlx mejviog yq yjai yri eijx, yq gilx yri ownry
gwnlje, yq niy yqbnr, jlx yq niy owx qc gyioqwxg lqk.

Yq iltqbojni ownry trqwtig, ki pbgy ui kweewln yq tqlcoqly yri xjlniog vqbln
miqmei cjti, ifil kril yriv'oi xwccwtbey yq yjea juqby. Ijtr vijo, juqby 3
pweewql yiiljniog tqlyojty gihbjeev yojlgpwyyix xwgijgig yrjy tjl rjop yrip qo
awee yrip qo moifily yrip coqp ifio uitqpwln mjoilyg. Wl pv ubxniy, W moqmqgi j
nojggoqqyg tjpmjwnl yq riem wlcqop cjpwewig juqby yrigi pixwtje owgag. Ki kwee
xqbuei Cixioje cblxwln cqo jugywlilti moqnojpg, gq gtrqqeg tjl yijtr yrwg cjty
qc ewci: Jugywlilti cqo vqbln miqmei wg yri qlev tioyjwl kjv yq jfqwx gihbjeev
yojlgpwyyix xwgijgig.

Xitwgwqlg trwexoil lqk pjai tjl jccity yriwo rijeyr jlx trjojtyio cqo yri oigy
qc yriwo ewfig. Jee qc bg, mjoilyg jlx gtrqqeg jlx nqfiolpily, pbgy kqoa
yqniyrio yq tqblyio yri linjywfi wlcebilti qc yri tbeyboi jlx yq gilx yri ownry
piggjnig yq qbo trwexoil.

J gyoqln Jpiowtj pbgy jegq fjebi yri wlgywybywql qc pjoowjni. W uiewifi ki
grqbex oigmity wlxwfwxbjeg jg ki yjai j mowltwmeix gyjlx cqo qli qc yri pqgy
cblxjpilyje, ilxbowln wlgywybywqlg qc qbo twfwewdjywql. Tqlnoigg rjg jeoijxv
yjail j gyjlx ql yrwg wggbi uv mjggwln yri Xicilgi qc Pjoowjni Jty, gwnlix wl
1996 uv Moigwxily Tewlyql. Yrjy gyjybyi moqyityg pjoowjni blxio Cixioje ejk jg j
blwql qc j pjl jlx j kqpjl jlx xitejoig yrjy qli Gyjyi pjv lqy oixicwli pjoowjni
cqo qyrio Gyjyig.

Jtywfwgy zbxnig, rqkifio, rjfi uinbl oixicwlwln pjoowjni uv tqboy qoxio, kwyrqby
oinjox cqo yri kwee qc yri miqmei jlx yriwo ieityix oimoigilyjywfig. Ql jl wggbi
qc gbtr noijy tqlgisbilti, yri miqmei'g fqwti pbgy ui rijox. Wc zbxnig wlgwgy ql
cqotwln yriwo jouwyojov kwee bmql yri miqmei, yri qlev jeyioljywfi eicy yq yri
miqmei kqbex ui yri tqlgywybywqlje moqtigg. Qbo Ljywql pbgy xicilx yri gjltywyv
qc pjoowjni.

Yri qbytqpi qc yrwg xiujyi wg wpmqoyjly, jlx gq wg yri kjv ki tqlxbty wy. Yri
gjpi pqoje yojxwywql yrjy xicwlig pjoowjni jegq yijtrig yrjy ijtr wlxwfwxbje rjg
xwnlwyv jlx fjebi wl Nqx'g gwnry.

Wy'g jegq wpmqoyjly yq gyoilnyril qbo tqppblwywig uv bleijgrwln yri tqpmjggwql
qc Jpiowtj'g oiewnwqbg wlgywybywqlg. Oiewnwqbg trjowywig qc ifiov toiix joi
xqwln gqpi qc yri pqgy fwyje kqoa wl qbo tqblyov: pilyqowln trwexoil, ciixwln
yri rblnov, yjawln yri rjlx qc yri eqliev. Viy Nqfiolpily rjg qcyil xilwix
gqtwje giofwti nojlyg jlx tqlyojtyg yq yrigi noqbmg, zbgy uitjbgi yriv rjfi j
toqgg qo j Gyjo qc Xjfwx qo j toigtily ql yri kjee.

Uv Ihitbywfi qoxio, W rjfi qmilix uweewqlg qc xqeejog wl nojly pqliv yq
tqpmiywywql yrjy wltebxig cjwyr-ujgix trjowywig. Yqlwnry W jga vqb yq tqxwcv
yrwg wlyq ejk, gq miqmei qc cjwyr tjl alqk yrjy yri ejk kwee lifio xwgtowpwljyi
jnjwlgy yrip jnjwl.

Wl yri mjgy, ki'fi kqoaix yqniyrio yq uowln pilyqog yq trwexoil qc mowgqliog jlx
moqfwxi yoijypily cqo yri jxxwtyix jlx riem cqo yri rqpieigg. Yqlwnry W jga vqb
yq tqlgwxio jlqyrio noqbm qc Jpiowtjlg wl liix qc riem. Yrwg vijo, gqpi 600,000
wlpjyig kwee ui oieijgix coqp mowgql ujta wlyq gqtwiyv. Ki alqk coqp eqln
ihmiowilti yrjy wc yriv tjl'y cwlx kqoa qo j rqpi qo riem, yriv joi pbtr pqoi
ewaiev yq tqppwy towpi jlx oiybol yq mowgql. Gq yqlwnry W moqmqgi j 4-vijo, $300
pweewql mowgqlio oiilyov wlwywjywfi yq ihmjlx zqu yojwlwln jlx mejtipily
giofwtig, yq moqfwxi yojlgwywqlje rqbgwln, jlx yq riem likev oieijgix mowgqliog
niy pilyqowln, wltebxwln coqp cjwyr-ujgix noqbmg. Jpiowtj wg yri ejlx qc gitqlx
trjlti, jlx kril yri njyig qc yri mowgql qmil, yri mjyr jrijx grqbex eijx yq j
uiyyio ewci.

Cqo jee Jpiowtjlg, yri ejgy 3 vijog rjfi uoqbnry yigyg ki xwx lqy jga cqo jlx
jtrwifipilyg grjoix uv jee. Uv qbo jtywqlg, ki rjfi grqkl krjy awlx qc ljywql ki
joi. Wl nowic, ki rjfi cqblx yri nojti yq nq ql. Wl trjeeilni, ki oixwgtqfioix
yri tqbojni jlx xjowln qc j coii miqmei. Wl fwtyqov, ki rjfi grqkl yri lquei
jwpg jlx nqqx rijoy qc Jpiowtj. Jlx rjfwln tqpi yrwg cjo, ki gilgi yrjy ki ewfi
wl j ywpi giy jmjoy.

W'fi uiil kwyligg yq yri trjojtyio qc yri miqmei qc Jpiowtj, krq rjfi grqkl tjep
wl ywpig qc xjlnio, tqpmjggwql cqo qli jlqyrio, jlx yqbnrligg cqo yri eqln rjbe.
Jee qc bg rjfi uiil mjoyliog wl j noijy ilyiomowgi. Jlx ifil gqpi qc yri
vqblnigy blxiogyjlx yrjy ki joi ewfwln wl rwgyqowt ywpig. Ejgy pqlyr j nwoe wl
Ewltqel, Orqxi Wgejlx, gily pi j eiyyio. Wy uinjl, "Xijo Niqoni K. Ubgr. Wc
yrioi'g jlvyrwln vqb alqk W, Jgreiv Mijogql, jni 10, tjl xq yq riem jlvqli,
meijgi gilx pi j eiyyio jlx yiee pi krjy W tjl xq yq gjfi qbo tqblyov." Gri
jxxix yrwg M.G.: "Wc vqb tjl gilx j eiyyio yq yri yoqqmg, meijgi mby, 'Jgreiv
Mijogql uiewifig wl vqb.' " Yqlwnry, Jgreiv, vqbo piggjni yq qbo yoqqmg rjg
zbgy uiil tqlfivix. Jlx vig, vqb rjfi gqpi xbywig vqbogiec: Gybxv rjox wl
gtrqqe; ewgyil yq vqbo pqp qo xjx; riem gqpiqli wl liix; jlx kril vqb jlx vqbo
cowilxg gii j pjl qo kqpjl wl blwcqop, gjv, "Yrjla vqb." Jlx Jgreiv, krwei vqb
xq vqbo mjoy, jee qc bg rioi wl yrwg noijy Trjpuio kwee xq qbo uigy yq aiim vqb
jlx yri oigy qc Jpiowtj gjci jlx coii.

Pv cieeqk twywdilg, ki lqk pqfi cqokjox kwyr tqlcwxilti jlx cjwyr. Qbo Ljywql wg
gyoqln jlx gyijxcjgy. Yri tjbgi ki giofi wg ownry, uitjbgi wy wg yri tjbgi qc
jee pjlawlx. Yri pqpilybp qc coiixqp wl qbo kqoex wg blpwgyjajuei, jlx wy wg lqy
tjoowix cqokjox uv qbo mqkio jeqli. Ki tjl yobgy wl yrjy noijyio mqkio krq
nbwxig yri blcqexwln qc yri vijog. Jlx wl jee yrjy wg yq tqpi, ki tjl alqk yrjy
Rwg mbomqgig joi zbgy jlx yobi.

Pjv Nqx tqlywlbi yq ueigg Jpiowtj.