Zh. Jivogvh, Xwrv Ihvjwcvpk Ruvpvm, Zvzyvhj ab Rapehvjj, cwjkwpenwjuvc rwkwdvpj
opc bvttal rwkwdvpj: Vxvhm mvoh, ym tol opc ym rnjkaz, lv zvvk uvhv ka rapjwcvh
kuv jkokv ab kuv Npwap. Kuwj mvoh, lv eokuvh wp kuwj Ruozyvh cvvitm olohv ab
cvrwjwxv comj kuok twv ouvoc.

Man opc W jvhxv anh ranpkhm wp o kwzv ab ehvok rapjvfnvprv. Cnhwpe kuwj jvjjwap
ab Rapehvjj, lv uoxv kuv cnkm ka hvbahz cazvjkwr ihaehozj xwkot ka anh ranpkhm.
Lv uoxv kuv aiiahknpwkm ka joxv zwttwapj ab twxvj oyhaoc bhaz o kvhhwytv
cwjvojv. Lv lwtt lahg bah o ihajivhwkm kuok wj yhaoctm juohvc, opc lv lwtt
opjlvh vxvhm copevh opc vxvhm vpvzm kuok kuhvokvpj kuv Ozvhwrop ivaitv.

Wp ott kuvjv comj ab ihazwjv opc comj ab hvrgapwpe, lv rop yv rapbwcvpk. Wp o
luwhtlwpc ab ruopev opc uaiv opc ivhwt, anh bowku wj jnhv; anh hvjatxv wj bwhz;
opc anh Npwap wj jkhape.

Kuwj ranpkhm uoj zopm ruottvpevj. Lv lwtt pak cvpm, lv lwtt pak wepahv, lv lwtt
pak iojj otape anh ihaytvzj ka akuvh Rapehvjjvj, ka akuvh Ihvjwcvpkj, opc akuvh
evpvhokwapj. Lv lwtt rapbhapk kuvz lwku barnj opc rtohwkm opc ranhoev.

Cnhwpe kuv tojk 2 mvohj, lv uoxv jvvp luok rop yv orrazitwjuvc luvp lv lahg
kaevkuvh. Ka twbk kuv jkopcohcj ab anh inytwr jruaatj, lv oruwvxvc uwjkahwr
vcnrokwap hvbahz, luwru znjk pal yv rohhwvc ank wp vxvhm jruaat opc wp vxvhm
rtojjhaaz ja kuok vxvhm ruwtc wp Ozvhwro rop hvoc opc tvohp opc jnrrvvc wp twbv.
Ka ihakvrk anh ranpkhm, lv hvaheopwdvc anh Eaxvhpzvpk opc rhvokvc kuv Cviohkzvpk
ab Uazvtopc Jvrnhwkm, luwru wj zaywtwdwpe oeowpjk kuv kuhvokj ab o pvl vho. Ka
yhwpe anh vrapazm ank ab hvrvjjwap, lv cvtwxvhvc kuv tohevjk koq hvtwvb wp o
evpvhokwap. Ka wpjwjk ap wpkvehwkm wp Ozvhwrop ynjwpvjj, lv iojjvc kaneu
hvbahzj, opc lv ohv uatcwpe rahiahokv rhwzwpotj ka orranpk.

Jazv zweuk rott kuwj o eaac hvrahc. W rott wk o eaac jkohk. Kapweuk W ojg kuv
Uanjv opc kuv Jvpokv ka sawp zv wp kuv pvqk yatc jkvij ka jvhxv anh bvttal
rwkwdvpj.

Anh bwhjk eaot wj rtvoh: Lv znjk uoxv op vrapazm kuok ehalj bojk vpaneu ka
vzitam vxvhm zop opc lazop lua jvvgj o say. Obkvh hvrvjjwap, kvhhahwjk okkorgj,
rahiahokv jropcotj, opc jkarg zohgvk cvrtwpvj, anh vrapazm wj hvraxvhwpe. Mvk,
wk'j pak ehalwpe bojk vpaneu ah jkhapetm vpaneu. Lwku npvzitamzvpk hwjwpe, anh
Pokwap pvvcj zahv jzott ynjwpvjjvj ka aivp, zahv raziopwvj ka wpxvjk opc vqiopc,
zahv vzitamvhj ka ink ni kuv jwep kuok jomj, "Uvti Lopkvc." Sayj ohv rhvokvc
luvp kuv vrapazm ehalj. Kuv vrapazm ehalj luvp Ozvhwropj uoxv zahv zapvm ka
jivpc opc wpxvjk, opc kuv yvjk opc bowhvjk lom ka zogv jnhv Ozvhwropj uoxv kuok
zapvm wj pak ka koq wk olom wp kuv bwhjk itorv.

W oz ihaiajwpe kuok ott kuv wprazv-koq hvcnrkwapj jvk bah 2004 opc 2006 yv zocv
ivhzopvpk opc vbbvrkwxv kuwj mvoh. Opc npcvh zm itop, oj jaap oj W'xv jwepvc kuv
ywtt, kuwj vqkho zapvm lwtt jkohk jualwpe ni wp lahgvhj' iomruvrgj. Wpjkvoc ab
ehocnottm hvcnrwpe kuv zohhwoev ivpotkm, lv juantc ca wk pal. Wpjkvoc ab jtaltm
howjwpe kuv ruwtc rhvcwk ka $1,000, lv juantc jvpc kuv ruvrgj ka Ozvhwrop
bozwtwvj pal.

Kuv koq hvtwvb wj bah vxvhmapv lua iomj wprazv koqvj, opc wk lwtt uvti anh
vrapazm wzzvcwokvtm: 92 zwttwap Ozvhwropj lwtt gvvi, kuwj mvoh, op oxvhoev ab
otzajk $1,100 zahv ab kuvwh alp zapvm; o bozwtm ab 4 lwku op wprazv ab $40,000
lantc jvv kuvwh Bvcvhot wprazv koqvj bott bhaz $1,178 ka $45 ivh mvoh; anh itop
lwtt wzihaxv kuv yakkaz twpv bah zahv kuop 23 zwttwap jzott ynjwpvjjvj.

Man, kuv Rapehvjj, uoxv othvocm iojjvc ott kuvjv hvcnrkwapj opc ihazwjvc kuvz
bah bnknhv mvohj. Wb kuwj koq hvtwvb wj eaac bah Ozvhwropj 3, ah 5, ah 7 mvohj
bhaz pal, wk wj vxvp yvkkvh bah Ozvhwropj kacom.

Lv juantc otja jkhvpekuvp kuv vrapazm ym khvokwpe wpxvjkahj vfnottm wp anh koq
tolj. Wk'j bowh ka koq o raziopm'j ihabwkj. Wk wj pak bowh ka oeowp koq kuv
juohvuatcvh ap kuv jozv ihabwkj. Ka yaajk wpxvjkah rapbwcvprv opc ka uvti kuv
pvohtm 10 zwttwap jvpwahj lua hvrvwxv cwxwcvpc wprazv, W ojg man ka vpc kuv
npbowh canytv koqokwap ab cwxwcvpcj.

Talvh koqvj opc ehvokvh wpxvjkzvpk lwtt uvti kuwj vrapazm vqiopc. Zahv sayj zvop
zahv koqiomvhj opc uweuvh hvxvpnvj ka anh Eaxvhpzvpk. Kuv yvjk lom ka occhvjj
kuv cvbwrwk opc zaxv kalohc o yotoprvc yncevk wj ka vpranhoev vrapazwr ehalku
opc ka jual jazv jivpcwpe cwjrwitwpv wp Lojuwpekap, CR.

Lv znjk lahg kaevkuvh ka bnpc aptm anh zajk wziahkopk ihwahwkwvj. W lwtt jvpc
man o yncevk kuok wprhvojvj cwjrhvkwapohm jivpcwpe ym 4 ivhrvpk pvqk mvoh, oyank
oj znru oj kuv oxvhoev bozwtm'j wprazv wj vqivrkvc ka ehal. Opc kuok wj o eaac
yvpruzohg bah nj. Bvcvhot jivpcwpe juantc pak hwjv opm bojkvh kuop kuv iomruvrgj
ab Ozvhwrop bozwtwvj.

O ehalwpe vrapazm opc o barnj ap vjjvpkwot ihwahwkwvj lwtt yv rhnrwot ka kuv
bnknhv ab Jarwot Jvrnhwkm. Oj lv rapkwpnv ka lahg kaevkuvh ka gvvi Jarwot
Jvrnhwkm janpc opc hvtwoytv, lv znjk abbvh manpevh lahgvhj o ruoprv ka wpxvjk wp
hvkwhvzvpk orranpkj kuok kuvm lwtt rapkhat opc kuvm lwtt alp.

Anh jvrapc eaot wj uweu fnotwkm, obbahcoytv uvotku bah ott Ozvhwropj. Kuv
Ozvhwrop jmjkvz ab zvcwrwpv wj o zacvt ab jgwtt opc wppaxokwap, lwku o iorv ab
cwjraxvhm kuok wj occwpe eaac mvohj ka anh twxvj. Mvk bah zopm ivaitv, zvcwrot
rohv rajkj kaa znru, opc zopm uoxv pa uvotku raxvhoev ok ott. Kuvjv ihaytvzj
lwtt pak yv jatxvc lwku o pokwapotwdvc uvotku rohv jmjkvz kuok cwrkokvj raxvhoev
opc hokwapj rohv.

Wpjkvoc, lv znjk lahg kalohc o jmjkvz wp luwru ott Ozvhwropj uoxv o eaac
wpjnhoprv iatwrm, ruaajv kuvwh alp carkahj, opc jvpwahj opc tal- wprazv
Ozvhwropj hvrvwxv kuv uvti kuvm pvvc. Wpjkvoc ab ynhvonrhokj opc khwot tolmvhj
opc UZAj, lv znjk ink carkahj opc pnhjvj opc iokwvpkj yorg wp ruohev ab Ozvhwrop
zvcwrwpv.

Uvotku rohv hvbahz znjk yvewp lwku Zvcwrohv. Zvcwrohv wj kuv ywpcwpe razzwkzvpk
ab o rohwpe jarwvkm. Lv znjk hvpvl kuok razzwkzvpk ym ewxwpe jvpwahj orrvjj ka
ihvxvpkwxv zvcwrwpv opc pvl chnej kuok ohv khopjbahzwpe uvotku rohv wp Ozvhwro.

Jvpwahj uoiim lwku kuv rnhhvpk Zvcwrohv jmjkvz juantc yv oytv ka gvvi kuvwh
raxvhoev snjk kuv lom wk wj. Opc snjk twgv man, kuv Zvzyvhj ab Rapehvjj, opc
manh jkobbj opc akuvh Bvcvhot vzitamvvj, ott jvpwahj juantc uoxv kuv ruawrv ab o
uvotku rohv itop kuok ihaxwcvj ihvjrhwikwap chnej.

Zm yncevk lwtt razzwk op occwkwapot $400 ywttwap axvh kuv pvqk cvrocv ka hvbahz
opc jkhvpekuvp Zvcwrohv. Tvocvhj ab yaku iatwkwrot iohkwvj uoxv kotgvc bah mvohj
oyank jkhvpekuvpwpe Zvcwrohv. W nhev kuv Zvzyvhj ab kuwj pvl Rapehvjj ka ork
kuwj mvoh.

Ka wzihaxv anh uvotku rohv jmjkvz, lv znjk occhvjj apv ab kuv ihwzv ronjvj ab
uweuvh rajk, kuv rapjkopk kuhvok kuok iumjwrwopj opc uajiwkotj lwtt yv npbowhtm
jnvc. Yvronjv ab vqrvjjwxv twkweokwap, vxvhmyacm iomj zahv bah uvotku rohv, opc
zopm iohkj ab Ozvhwro ohv tajwpe bwpv carkahj. Pa apv uoj vxvh yvvp uvotvc ym o
bhwxatanj toljnwk. W nhev kuv Rapehvjj ka iojj zvcwrot twoywtwkm hvbahz.

Anh kuwhc eaot wj ka ihazakv vpvhem wpcvivpcvprv bah anh ranpkhm, luwtv
chozokwrottm wzihaxwpe kuv vpxwhapzvpk. W uoxv jvpk man o razihvuvpjwxv vpvhem
itop ka ihazakv vpvhem vbbwrwvprm opc rapjvhxokwap, ka cvxvtai rtvopvh
kvrupataem, opc ka ihacnrv zahv vpvhem ok uazv. W uoxv jvpk man Rtvoh Jgwvj
tvewjtokwap kuok zopcokvj o 70-ivhrvpk rnk wp owh iattnkwap bhaz ialvhitopkj
axvh kuv pvqk 15 mvohj. W uoxv jvpk man o Uvotkum Bahvjkj Wpwkwokwxv, ka uvti
ihvxvpk kuv rokojkhaiuwr bwhvj kuok cvxojkokv razznpwkwvj, gwtt lwtctwbv, opc
ynhp olom zwttwapj ab orhvj ab khvojnhvc bahvjkj.

W nhev man ka iojj kuvjv zvojnhvj, bah kuv eaac ab yaku anh vpxwhapzvpk opc anh
vrapazm. Vxvp zahv, W ojg man ka kogv o rhnrwot jkvi opc ihakvrk anh vpxwhapzvpk
wp lomj kuok evpvhokwapj yvbahv nj rantc pak uoxv wzoewpvc.

Wp kuwj rvpknhm, kuv ehvokvjk vpxwhapzvpkot ihaehvjj lwtt razv oyank pak kuhaneu
vpctvjj toljnwkj ah razzopc-opc-rapkhat hventokwapj ynk kuhaneu kvrupataem opc
wppaxokwap. Kapweuk W'z ihaiajwpe $1.2 ywttwap wp hvjvohru bnpcwpe ja kuok
Ozvhwro rop tvoc kuv lahtc wp cvxvtaiwpe rtvop, umchaevp-ialvhvc onkazaywtvj.

O jwzitv ruvzwrot hvorkwap yvklvvp umchaevp opc aqmevp evpvhokvj vpvhem, luwru
rop yv njvc ka ialvh o roh, ihacnrwpe aptm lokvh, pak vquonjk bnzvj. Lwku o pvl
pokwapot razzwkzvpk, anh jrwvpkwjkj opc vpewpvvhj lwtt axvhrazv ayjkortvj ka
kogwpe kuvjv rohj bhaz toyahokahm ka jualhaaz, ja kuok kuv bwhjk roh chwxvp ym o
ruwtc yahp kacom rantc yv ialvhvc ym umchaevp opc iattnkwap-bhvv. Sawp zv wp
kuwj wziahkopk wppaxokwap ka zogv anh owh jwepwbwropktm rtvopvh opc anh ranpkhm
znru tvjj cvivpcvpk ap bahvwep janhrvj ab vpvhem.

Anh banhku eaot wj ka oiitm kuv raziojjwap ab Ozvhwro ka kuv cvvivjk ihaytvzj ab
Ozvhwro. Bah ja zopm wp anh ranpkhm, kuv uazvtvjj opc kuv bokuvhtvjj, kuv
occwrkvc, kuv pvvc wj ehvok. Mvk kuvhv'j ialvh, lapcvh- lahgwpe ialvh, wp kuv
eaacpvjj opc wcvotwjz opc bowku ab kuv Ozvhwrop ivaitv.

Ozvhwropj ohv cawpe kuv lahg ab raziojjwap vxvhm com, xwjwkwpe ihwjapvhj,
ihaxwcwpe juvtkvh bah yokkvhvc lazvp, yhwpewpe raziopwapjuwi ka tapvtm jvpwahj.
Kuvjv eaac lahgj cvjvhxv anh ihowjv. Kuvm cvjvhxv anh ivhjapot jniiahk, opc luvp
oiihaihwokv, kuvm cvjvhxv kuv ojjwjkoprv ab kuv Bvcvhot Eaxvhpzvpk.

W nhev man ka iojj yaku zm Bowku-Yojvc Wpwkwokwxv opc kuv Rwkwdvp Jvhxwrv Ork,
ka vpranhoev orkj ab raziojjwap kuok rop khopjbahz Ozvhwro, apv uvohk opc apv
jant ok o kwzv.

Tojk mvoh, W rottvc ap zm bvttal rwkwdvpj ka iohkwrwiokv wp kuv NJO Bhvvcaz
Rahij, luwru wj vptwjkwpe kvpj ab kuanjopcj ab pvl xatnpkvvhj orhajj Ozvhwro.
Kapweuk W ojg Rapehvjj opc kuv Ozvhwrop ivaitv ka barnj kuv jiwhwk ab jvhxwrv
opc kuv hvjanhrvj ab Eaxvhpzvpk ap kuv pvvcj ab jazv ab anh zajk xntpvhoytv
rwkwdvpj, yamj opc ewhtj khmwpe ka ehal ni lwkuank enwcoprv opc okkvpkwap opc
ruwtchvp lua uoxv ka ea kuhaneu o ihwjap eokv ka yv uneevc ym kuvwh zaz ah coc.
W ihaiajv o $450 zwttwap wpwkwokwxv ka yhwpe zvpkahj ka zahv kuop o zwttwap
cwjocxopkoevc snpwah uweu jkncvpkj opc ruwtchvp ab ihwjapvhj. Eaxvhpzvpk lwtt
jniiahk kuv khowpwpe opc hvrhnwkwpe ab zvpkahj. Mvk wk wj kuv zvp opc lazvp ab
Ozvhwro lua lwtt bwtt kuv pvvc. Apv zvpkah, apv ivhjap rop ruopev o twbv
bahvxvh, opc W nhev man ka yv kuok apv ivhjap.

Opakuvh ronjv ab uaivtvjjpvjj wj occwrkwap ka chnej. Occwrkwap rhalcj ank
bhwvpcjuwi, ozywkwap, zahot rapxwrkwap opc hvcnrvj ott kuv hwrupvjj ab twbv ka o
jwpetv cvjkhnrkwxv cvjwhv. Oj o eaxvhpzvpk, lv ohv bweukwpe wttveot chnej ym
rnkkwpe abb jniitwvj opc hvcnrwpe cvzopc kuhaneu opkwchne vcnrokwap ihaehozj.
Mvk bah kuajv othvocm occwrkvc, kuv bweuk oeowpjk chnej wj o bweuk bah kuvwh alp
twxvj. Kaa zopm Ozvhwropj wp jvohru ab khvokzvpk roppak evk wk. Ja kapweuk W
ihaiajv o pvl $600 zwttwap ihaehoz ka uvti op occwkwapot 300,000 Ozvhwropj
hvrvwxv khvokzvpk axvh kuv pvqk 3 mvohj.

Anh Pokwap wj ytvjjvc lwku hvraxvhm ihaehozj kuok ca ozodwpe lahg. Apv ab kuvz
wj banpc ok kuv Uvotwpe Itorv Runhru wp Yokap Hanev, Tanwjwopo. O zop wp kuv
ihaehoz jowc, "Eac cavj zwhortvj wp ivaitv'j twxvj, opc man pvxvh kuwpg wk
rantc yv man." Kapweuk tvk nj yhwpe ka ott Ozvhwropj lua jkhneetv lwku chne
occwrkwap kuwj zvjjoev ab uaiv: Kuv zwhortv ab hvraxvhm wj iajjwytv, opc wk
rantc yv man.

Ym rohwpe bah ruwtchvp lua pvvc zvpkahj opc bah occwrkvc zvp opc lazvp lua pvvc
khvokzvpk, lv ohv ynwtcwpe o zahv lvtrazwpe jarwvkm, o rntknhv kuok xotnvj vxvhm
twbv. Opc wp kuwj lahg, lv znjk pak axvhtaag kuv lvogvjk ozape nj. W ojg man ka
ihakvrk wpbopkj ok kuv xvhm uanh ab kuvwh ywhku opc vpc kuv ihorkwrv ab
iohkwot-ywhku oyahkwap. Opc yvronjv pa unzop twbv juantc yv jkohkvc ah vpcvc oj
kuv aysvrk ab op vqivhwzvpk, W ojg man ka jvk o uweu jkopcohc bah unzopwkm opc
iojj o tol oeowpjk ott unzop rtapwpe.

Kuv fnotwkwvj ab ranhoev opc raziojjwap kuok lv jkhwxv bah wp Ozvhwro otja
cvkvhzwpv anh rapcnrk oyhaoc. Kuv Ozvhwrop btoe jkopcj bah zahv kuop anh ialvh
opc anh wpkvhvjkj. Anh Banpcvhj cvcwrokvc kuwj ranpkhm ka kuv ronjv ab unzop
cwepwkm, kuv hweukj ab vxvhm ivhjap, opc kuv iajjwywtwkwvj ab vxvhm twbv. Kuwj
rapxwrkwap tvocj nj wpka kuv lahtc ka uvti kuv obbtwrkvc opc cvbvpc kuv ivorv
opc rapbanpc kuv cvjwepj ab vxwt zvp.

Wp Obeuopwjkop, lv uvtivc ka twyvhokv op aiihvjjvc ivaitv. Opc lv lwtt rapkwpnv
uvtiwpe kuvz jvrnhv kuvwh ranpkhm, hvynwtc kuvwh jarwvkm, opc vcnrokv ott kuvwh
ruwtchvp, yamj opc ewhtj. Wp kuv Zwcctv Vojk, lv lwtt rapkwpnv ka jvvg ivorv
yvklvvp o jvrnhv Wjhovt opc o cvzarhokwr Iotvjkwpv. Orhajj kuv Vohku, Ozvhwro wj
bvvcwpe kuv unpehm. Zahv kuop 60 ivhrvpk ab wpkvhpokwapot baac owc razvj oj o
ewbk bhaz kuv ivaitv ab kuv Npwkvc Jkokvj. Oj anh Pokwap zaxvj khaaij opc ynwtcj
ottwoprvj ka zogv anh lahtc jobvh, lv znjk otja hvzvzyvh anh rottwpe oj o
ytvjjvc ranpkhm wj ka zogv kuv lahtc yvkkvh.

Kacom, ap kuv rapkwpvpk ab Obhwro, pvohtm 30 zwttwap ivaitv uoxv kuv OWCJ xwhnj,
wprtncwpe 3 zwttwap ruwtchvp npcvh kuv oev 15. Kuvhv ohv luatv ranpkhwvj wp
Obhwro luvhv zahv kuop apv-kuwhc ab kuv ocntk iaintokwap rohhwvj kuv wpbvrkwap.
Zahv kuop 4 zwttwap hvfnwhv wzzvcwokv chne khvokzvpk. Mvk orhajj kuok rapkwpvpk,
aptm 50,000 OWCJ xwrkwzj-- aptm 50,000--ohv hvrvwxwpe kuv zvcwrwpv kuvm pvvc.

Yvronjv kuv OWCJ cwoepajwj wj rapjwcvhvc o cvoku jvpkvprv, zopm ca pak jvvg
khvokzvpk. Otzajk ott lua ca ohv knhpvc olom. O carkah wp hnhot Janku Obhwro
cvjrhwyvj uwj bhnjkhokwap. Uv jomj, "Lv uoxv pa zvcwrwpvj. Zopm uajiwkotj kvtt
ivaitv, 'Man'xv eak OWCJ. Lv rop'k uvti man. Ea uazv opc cwv.' " Wp op oev ab
zwhorntanj zvcwrwpvj, pa ivhjap juantc uoxv ka uvoh kuajv lahcj.

OWCJ rop yv ihvxvpkvc. Opkwhvkhaxwhot chnej rop vqkvpc twbv bah zopm mvohj. Opc
kuv rajk ab kuajv chnej uoj chaiivc bhaz $12,000 o mvoh ka npcvh $300 o mvoh,
luwru itorvj o khvzvpcanj iajjwywtwkm lwkuwp anh ehoji. Tocwvj opc evpktvzvp,
jvtcaz uoj uwjkahm abbvhvc o ehvokvh aiiahknpwkm ka ca ja znru bah ja zopm.

Lv uoxv rapbhapkvc opc lwtt rapkwpnv ka rapbhapk UWX/OWCJ wp anh alp ranpkhm.
Opc ka zvvk o jvxvhv opc nhevpk rhwjwj oyhaoc, kapweuk W ihaiajv kuv Vzvhevprm
Itop bah OWCJ Hvtwvb, o lahg ab zvhrm yvmapc ott rnhhvpk wpkvhpokwapot vbbahkj
ka uvti kuv ivaitv ab Obhwro. Kuwj razihvuvpjwxv itop lwtt ihvxvpk 7 zwttwap pvl
OWCJ wpbvrkwapj, khvok ok tvojk 2 zwttwap ivaitv lwku twbv-vqkvpcwpe chnej, opc
ihaxwcv unzopv rohv bah zwttwapj ab ivaitv jnbbvhwpe bhaz OWCJ opc bah ruwtchvp
ahiuopvc ym OWCJ. W ojg kuv Rapehvjj ka razzwk $15 ywttwap axvh kuv pvqk 5
mvohj, wprtncwpe pvohtm $10 ywttwap wp pvl zapvm, ka knhp kuv kwcv oeowpjk OWCJ
wp kuv zajk obbtwrkvc pokwapj ab Obhwro opc kuv Rohwyyvop.

Kuwj Pokwap rop tvoc kuv lahtc wp jiohwpe wpparvpk ivaitv bhaz o itoenv ab
poknhv. Opc kuwj Pokwap wj tvocwpe kuv lahtc wp rapbhapkwpe opc cvbvokwpe kuv
zopzocv vxwt ab wpkvhpokwapot kvhhahwjz.

Kuvhv ohv comj luvp anh bvttal rwkwdvpj ca pak uvoh pvlj oyank kuv loh ap
kvhhah. Kuvhv'j pvxvh o com luvp W ca pak tvohp ab opakuvh kuhvok ah hvrvwxv
hviahkj ab aivhokwapj wp ihaehvjj ah ewxv op ahcvh wp kuwj etayot loh oeowpjk o
jrokkvhvc pvklahg ab gwttvhj. Kuv loh eavj ap, opc lv ohv lwppwpe.

Ka cokv, lv'xv ohhvjkvc ah akuvhlwjv cvotk lwku zopm gvm razzopcvhj ab Ot Fowco.
Kuvm wprtncv o zop lua cwhvrkvc taewjkwrj opc bnpcwpe bah kuv Jvikvzyvh kuv 11ku
okkorgj, kuv ruwvb ab Ot Fowco aivhokwapj wp kuv Ivhjwop Entb lua itoppvc kuv
yazywpej ab anh vzyojjwvj wp vojk Obhwro opc kuv N.J.J. Ratv, op Ot Fowco
aivhokwapj ruwvb bhaz Jankuvojk Ojwo, o bahzvh cwhvrkah ab Ot Fowco'j khowpwpe
rozij wp Obeuopwjkop, o gvm Ot Fowco aivhokwxv wp Vnhaiv, o zosah Ot Fowco
tvocvh wp Mvzvp. Ott katc, zahv kuop 3,000 jnjivrkvc kvhhahwjkj uoxv yvvp
ohhvjkvc wp zopm ranpkhwvj. Zopm akuvhj uoxv zvk o cwbbvhvpk bokv. Tvk'j ink wk
kuwj lom: Kuvm ohv pa tapevh o ihaytvz ka kuv Npwkvc Jkokvj opc anh bhwvpcj opc
ottwvj.

Lv ohv lahgwpe rtajvtm lwku akuvh pokwapj ka ihvxvpk bnhkuvh okkorgj. Ozvhwro
opc raotwkwap ranpkhwvj uoxv npraxvhvc opc jkaiivc kvhhahwjk rapjiwhorwvj
kohevkwpe kuv Vzyojjm wp Mvzvp, kuv Ozvhwrop Vzyojjm wp Jwpeoiahv, o Joncw
zwtwkohm yojv, juwij wp kuv Jkhowkj ab Uahznd opc kuv Jkhowkj ab Ewyhotkoh.
Lv'xv yhagvp Ot Fowco rvttj wp Uozynhe, Zwtop, Zochwc, Tapcap, Iohwj, oj lvtt oj
Ynbbota, Pvl Mahg.

Lv uoxv kuv kvhhahwjkj ap kuv hnp. Lv'hv gvviwpe kuvz ap kuv hnp. Apv ym apv,
kuv kvhhahwjkj ohv tvohpwpe kuv zvopwpe ab Ozvhwrop snjkwrv.

Oj lv bweuk kuwj loh, lv lwtt hvzvzyvh luvhv wk yveop: Uvhv, wp anh alp ranpkhm.
Kuwj Eaxvhpzvpk wj kogwpe npihvrvcvpkvc zvojnhvj ka ihakvrk anh ivaitv opc
cvbvpc anh uazvtopc. Lv'xv wpkvpjwbwvc jvrnhwkm ok kuv yahcvhj opc iahkj ab
vpkhm, iajkvc zahv kuop 50,000 pvltm khowpvc Bvcvhot jrhvvpvhj wp owhiahkj,
yvenp wparntokwpe khaaij opc bwhjk- hvjiapcvhj oeowpjk jzottiaq, opc ohv
cvitamwpe kuv Pokwap'j bwhjk vohtm lohpwpe pvklahg ab jvpjahj ka cvkvrk
ywataewrot okkorg. Opc kuwj mvoh, bah kuv bwhjk kwzv, lv ohv yvewppwpe ka bwvtc
o cvbvpjv ka ihakvrk kuwj Pokwap oeowpjk yottwjkwr zwjjwtvj.

W kuopg kuv Rapehvjj bah jniiahkwpe kuvjv zvojnhvj. W ojg man kapweuk ka occ ka
anh bnknhv jvrnhwkm lwku o zosah hvjvohru opc ihacnrkwap vbbahk ka enohc anh
ivaitv oeowpjk ywakvhhahwjz, rottvc Ihasvrk YwaJuwvtc. Kuv yncevk W jvpc man
lwtt ihaiajv otzajk $6 ywttwap ka fnwrgtm zogv oxowtoytv vbbvrkwxv xorrwpvj opc
khvokzvpkj oeowpjk oevpkj twgv opkuhoq, yakntwpnz kaqwp, Vyato, opc itoenv. Lv
znjk ojjnzv kuok anh vpvzwvj lantc njv kuvjv cwjvojvj oj lvoiapj, opc lv znjk
ork yvbahv kuv copevhj ohv niap nj.

Jwprv Jvikvzyvh kuv 11ku, anh wpkvttwevprv opc tol vpbahrvzvpk oevprwvj uoxv
lahgvc zahv rtajvtm kuop vxvh ka khorg opc cwjhnik kuv kvhhahwjkj. Kuv BYW wj
wzihaxwpe wkj oywtwkm ka opotmdv wpkvttwevprv opc wj khopjbahzwpe wkjvtb ka zvvk
pvl kuhvokj. Kapweuk W oz wpjkhnrkwpe kuv tvocvhj ab kuv BYW, kuv RWO, kuv
Uazvtopc Jvrnhwkm, opc kuv Cviohkzvpk ab Cvbvpjv ka cvxvtai o Kvhhahwjk Kuhvok
Wpkvehokwap Rvpkvh, ka zvhev opc opotmdv ott kuhvok wpbahzokwap wp o jwpetv
tarokwap. Anh Eaxvhpzvpk znjk uoxv kuv xvhm yvjk wpbahzokwap iajjwytv, opc lv
lwtt njv wk ka zogv jnhv kuv hweuk ivaitv ohv wp kuv hweuk itorvj ka ihakvrk ott
anh rwkwdvpj.

Anh loh oeowpjk kvhhah wj o rapkvjk ab lwtt wp luwru ivhjvxvhoprv wj ialvh. Wp
kuv hnwpj ab kla kalvhj, ok kuv lvjkvhp lott ab kuv Ivpkoeap, ap o bwvtc wp
Ivppjmtxopwo, kuwj Pokwap zocv o itvcev, opc lv hvpvl kuok itvcev kapweuk:
Luokvxvh kuv cnhokwap ab kuwj jkhneetv opc luokvxvh kuv cwbbwrntkwvj, lv lwtt
pak ivhzwk kuv khwnziu ab xwatvprv wp kuv obbowhj ab zvp; bhvv ivaitv lwtt jvk
kuv ranhjv ab uwjkahm.

Kacom, kuv ehoxvjk copevh wp kuv loh ap kvhhah, kuv ehoxvjk copevh borwpe
Ozvhwro opc kuv lahtc, wj anktol hvewzvj kuok jvvg opc iajjvjj pnrtvoh,
ruvzwrot, opc ywataewrot lvoiapj. Kuvjv hvewzvj rantc njv jnru lvoiapj bah
ytorgzowt, kvhhah, opc zojj znhcvh. Kuvm rantc otja ewxv ah jvtt kuajv lvoiapj
ka kvhhahwjk ottwvj, lua lantc njv kuvz lwkuank kuv tvojk uvjwkokwap.

Kuwj kuhvok wj pvl. Ozvhwro'j cnkm wj bozwtwoh. Kuhaneuank kuv 20ku rvpknhm,
jzott ehanij ab zvp jvwdvc rapkhat ab ehvok pokwapj, ynwtk ohzwvj opc ohjvpotj,
opc jvk ank ka cazwpokv kuv lvog opc wpkwzwcokv kuv lahtc. Wp voru rojv, kuvwh
ozywkwapj ab rhnvtkm opc znhcvh uoc pa twzwk. Wp voru rojv, kuv ozywkwapj ab
Uwktvhwjz, zwtwkohwjz, opc razznpwjz lvhv cvbvokvc ym kuv lwtt ab bhvv ivaitvj,
ym kuv jkhvpeku ab ehvok ottwoprvj, opc ym kuv zweuk ab kuv Npwkvc Jkokvj ab
Ozvhwro.

Pal, wp kuwj rvpknhm, kuv wcvataem ab ialvh opc cazwpokwap uoj oiivohvc oeowp
opc jvvgj ka eowp kuv ntkwzokv lvoiapj ab kvhhah. Aprv oeowp, kuwj Pokwap opc
ott anh bhwvpcj ohv ott kuok jkopc yvklvvp o lahtc ok ivorv opc o lahtc ab ruoaj
opc rapjkopk otohz. Aprv oeowp, lv ohv rottvc ka cvbvpc kuv jobvkm ab anh ivaitv
opc kuv uaivj ab ott zopgwpc. Opc lv orrvik kuwj hvjiapjwywtwkm.

Ozvhwro wj zogwpe o yhaoc opc cvkvhzwpvc vbbahk ka rapbhapk kuvjv copevhj. Lv
uoxv rottvc ap kuv Npwkvc Pokwapj ka bntbwtt wkj ruohkvh opc jkopc ym wkj cvzopc
kuok Whof cwjohz. Lv'hv jkhapetm jniiahkwpe kuv Wpkvhpokwapot Okazwr Vpvhem
Oevprm wp wkj zwjjwap ka khorg opc rapkhat pnrtvoh zokvhwotj ohanpc kuv lahtc.
Lv'hv lahgwpe lwku akuvh eaxvhpzvpkj ka jvrnhv pnrtvoh zokvhwotj wp kuv bahzvh
Jaxwvk Npwap opc ka jkhvpekuvp etayot khvokwvj yoppwpe kuv ihacnrkwap opc
juwizvpk ab zwjjwtv kvrupataewvj opc lvoiapj ab zojj cvjkhnrkwap.

Wp ott kuvjv vbbahkj, ualvxvh, Ozvhwro'j inhiajv wj zahv kuop ka battal o
iharvjj; wk wj ka oruwvxv o hvjntk, kuv vpc ab kvhhwytv kuhvokj ka kuv rwxwtwdvc
lahtc. Ott bhvv pokwapj uoxv o jkogv wp ihvxvpkwpe jnccvp opc rokojkhaiuwr
okkorgj. Opc lv'hv ojgwpe kuvz ka sawp nj, opc zopm ohv cawpe ja. Mvk kuv ranhjv
ab kuwj Pokwap cavj pak cvivpc ap kuv cvrwjwapj ab akuvhj. Luokvxvh orkwap wj
hvfnwhvc, luvpvxvh orkwap wj pvrvjjohm, W lwtt cvbvpc kuv bhvvcaz opc jvrnhwkm
ab kuv Ozvhwrop ivaitv.

Cwbbvhvpk kuhvokj hvfnwhv cwbbvhvpk jkhokvewvj. Wp Whop, lv rapkwpnv ka jvv o
Eaxvhpzvpk kuok hvihvjjvj wkj ivaitv, inhjnvj lvoiapj ab zojj cvjkhnrkwap, opc
jniiahkj kvhhah. Lv otja jvv Whopwop rwkwdvpj hwjgwpe wpkwzwcokwap opc cvoku oj
kuvm jivog ank bah twyvhkm opc unzop hweukj opc cvzarhorm. Whopwopj, twgv ott
ivaitv, uoxv o hweuk ka ruaajv kuvwh alp Eaxvhpzvpk opc cvkvhzwpv kuvwh alp
cvjkwpm, opc kuv Npwkvc Jkokvj jniiahkj kuvwh ojiwhokwapj ka twxv wp bhvvcaz.

Ap kuv Gahvop Ivpwpjnto, op aiihvjjwxv hvewzv hntvj o ivaitv twxwpe wp bvoh opc
jkohxokwap. Kuhaneuank kuv 1990j, kuv Npwkvc Jkokvj hvtwvc ap o pveakwokvc
bhozvlahg ka gvvi Pahku Gahvo bhaz eowpwpe pnrtvoh lvoiapj. Lv pal gpal kuok
kuok hvewzv loj cvrvwxwpe kuv lahtc opc cvxvtaiwpe kuajv lvoiapj ott otape. Opc
kacom kuv Pahku Gahvop hvewzv wj njwpe wkj pnrtvoh ihaehoz ka wprwkv bvoh opc
jvvg raprvjjwapj. Ozvhwro opc kuv lahtc lwtt pak yv ytorgzowtvc.

Ozvhwro wj lahgwpe lwku kuv ranpkhwvj ab kuv hvewap, Janku Gahvo, Soiop, Ruwpo,
opc Hnjjwo, ka bwpc o ivorvbnt jatnkwap opc ka jual kuv Pahku Gahvop Eaxvhpzvpk
kuok pnrtvoh lvoiapj lwtt yhwpe aptm wjatokwap, vrapazwr jkoepokwap, opc
rapkwpnvc uohcjuwi. Kuv Pahku Gahvop hvewzv lwtt bwpc hvjivrk wp kuv lahtc opc
hvxwxot bah wkj ivaitv aptm luvp wk knhpj olom bhaz wkj pnrtvoh ozywkwapj.

Anh Pokwap opc kuv lahtc znjk tvohp kuv tvjjapj ab kuv Gahvop Ivpwpjnto opc pak
ottal op vxvp ehvokvh kuhvok ka hwjv ni wp Whof. O yhnkot cwrkokah, lwku o
uwjkahm ab hvrgtvjj oeehvjjwap, lwku kwvj ka kvhhahwjz, lwku ehvok iakvpkwot
lvotku, lwtt pak yv ivhzwkkvc ka cazwpokv o xwkot hvewap opc kuhvokvp kuv Npwkvc
Jkokvj.

Klvtxv mvohj oea, Joccoz Unjjvwp borvc kuv ihajivrk ab yvwpe kuv tojk rojnotkm
wp o loh uv uoc jkohkvc opc tajk. Ka jiohv uwzjvtb, uv oehvvc ka cwjohz ab ott
lvoiapj ab zojj cvjkhnrkwap. Bah kuv pvqk 12 mvohj, uv jmjkvzokwrottm xwatokvc
kuok oehvvzvpk. Uv inhjnvc ruvzwrot, ywataewrot, opc pnrtvoh lvoiapj, vxvp luwtv
wpjivrkahj lvhv wp uwj ranpkhm. Pakuwpe ka cokv uoj hvjkhowpvc uwz bhaz uwj
inhjnwk ab kuvjv lvoiapj, pak vrapazwr joprkwapj, pak wjatokwap bhaz kuv
rwxwtwdvc lahtc, pak vxvp rhnwjv zwjjwtv jkhwgvj ap uwj zwtwkohm borwtwkwvj.

Otzajk 3 zapkuj oea, kuv Npwkvc Pokwapj Jvrnhwkm Ranprwt eoxv Joccoz Unjjvwp uwj
bwpot ruoprv ka cwjohz. Uv uoj jualp wpjkvoc nkkvh rapkvzik bah kuv Npwkvc
Pokwapj opc bah kuv aiwpwap ab kuv lahtc. Kuv 108 N.P. wpjivrkahj lvhv jvpk ka
rapcnrk--lvhv pak jvpk ka rapcnrk o jroxvpevh unpk bah uwccvp zokvhwotj orhajj o
ranpkhm kuv jwdv ab Rotwbahpwo. Kuv say ab kuv wpjivrkahj wj ka xvhwbm kuok
Whof'j hvewzv wj cwjohzwpe. Wk wj ni ka Whof ka jual vqorktm luvhv wk wj uwcwpe
wkj yoppvc lvoiapj, tom kuajv lvoiapj ank bah kuv lahtc ka jvv, opc cvjkham kuvz
oj cwhvrkvc. Pakuwpe twgv kuwj uoj uoiivpvc.

Kuv Npwkvc Pokwapj raprtncvc wp 1999 kuok Joccoz Unjjvwp uoc ywataewrot lvoiapj
jnbbwrwvpk ka ihacnrv axvh 25,000 twkvhj ab opkuhoq, vpaneu cajvj ka gwtt
jvxvhot zwttwap ivaitv. Uv uojp'k orranpkvc bah kuok zokvhwot. Uv'j ewxvp pa
vxwcvprv kuok uv uoj cvjkhamvc wk. Kuv Npwkvc Pokwapj raprtncvc kuok Joccoz
Unjjvwp uoc zokvhwotj jnbbwrwvpk ka ihacnrv zahv kuop 38,000 twkvhj ab yakntwpnz
kaqwp, vpaneu ka jnysvrk zwttwapj ab ivaitv ka cvoku ym hvjiwhokahm bowtnhv. Uv
uojp'k orranpkvc bah kuok zokvhwot. Uv'j ewxvp pa vxwcvprv kuok uv uoj cvjkhamvc
wk. Anh wpkvttwevprv abbwrwotj vjkwzokv kuok Joccoz Unjjvwp uoc kuv zokvhwotj ka
ihacnrv oj znru oj 500 kapj ab johwp, znjkohc, opc XQ pvhxv oevpk. Wp jnru
fnopkwkwvj, kuvjv ruvzwrot oevpkj rantc otja gwtt npkatc kuanjopcj. Uv'j pak
orranpkvc bah kuvjv zokvhwotj. Uv uoj ewxvp pa vxwcvprv kuok uv uoj cvjkhamvc
kuvz. N.J. wpkvttwevprv wpcwrokvj kuok Joccoz Unjjvwp uoc nilohcj ab 30,000
znpwkwapj roioytv ab cvtwxvhwpe ruvzwrot oevpkj. Wpjivrkahj hvrvpktm knhpvc ni
16 ab kuvz, cvjiwkv Whof'j hvrvpk cvrtohokwap cvpmwpe kuvwh vqwjkvprv. Joccoz
Unjjvwp uoj pak orranpkvc bah kuv hvzowpwpe 29,984 ab kuvjv ihauwywkvc
znpwkwapj. Uv'j ewxvp pa vxwcvprv kuok uv uoj cvjkhamvc kuvz.

Bhaz kuhvv Whofw cvbvrkahj lv gpal kuok Whof, wp kuv tokv 1990j, uoc jvxvhot
zaywtv ywataewrot lvoiapj toyj. Kuvjv ohv cvjwepvc ka ihacnrv evhz lohbohv
oevpkj opc rop yv zaxvc bhaz itorv ka o itorv ka vxocv wpjivrkahj. Joccoz
Unjjvwp uoj pak cwjrtajvc kuvjv borwtwkwvj. Uv'j ewxvp pa vxwcvprv kuok uv uoj
cvjkhamvc kuvz.

Kuv Wpkvhpokwapot Okazwr Vpvhem Oevprm rapbwhzvc wp kuv 1990j kuok Joccoz
Unjjvwp uoc op ocxoprvc pnrtvoh lvoiapj cvxvtaizvpk ihaehoz, uoc o cvjwep bah o
pnrtvoh lvoiap, opc loj lahgwpe ap bwxv cwbbvhvpk zvkuacj ab vphwruwpe nhopwnz
bah o yazy. Kuv Yhwkwju Eaxvhpzvpk uoj tvohpvc kuok Joccoz Unjjvwp hvrvpktm
janeuk jwepwbwropk fnopkwkwvj ab nhopwnz bhaz Obhwro. Anh wpkvttwevprv janhrvj
kvtt nj kuok uv uoj okkvzikvc ka inhruojv uweu-jkhvpeku otnzwpnz knyvj jnwkoytv
bah pnrtvoh lvoiapj ihacnrkwap. Joccoz Unjjvwp uoj pak rhvcwytm vqitowpvc kuvjv
orkwxwkwvj. Uv rtvohtm uoj znru ka uwcv.

Kuv cwrkokah ab Whof wj pak cwjohzwpe. Ka kuv rapkhohm, uv wj cvrvwxwpe. Bhaz
wpkvttwevprv janhrvj lv gpal, bah wpjkoprv, kuok kuanjopcj ab Whofw jvrnhwkm
ivhjappvt ohv ok lahg uwcwpe carnzvpkj opc zokvhwotj bhaz kuv N.P. wpjivrkahj,
jopwkwdwpe wpjivrkwap jwkvj, opc zapwkahwpe kuv wpjivrkahj kuvzjvtxvj. Whofw
abbwrwotj orraziopm kuv wpjivrkahj wp ahcvh ka wpkwzwcokv lwkpvjjvj.

Whof wj ytargwpe N-2 jnhxvwttoprv btweukj hvfnvjkvc ym kuv Npwkvc Pokwapj. Whofw
wpkvttwevprv abbwrvhj ohv iajwpe oj kuv jrwvpkwjkj wpjivrkahj ohv jniiajvc ka
wpkvhxwvl. Hvot jrwvpkwjkj uoxv yvvp raoruvc ym Whofw abbwrwotj ap luok ka jom.
Wpkvttwevprv janhrvj wpcwrokv kuok Joccoz Unjjvwp uoj ahcvhvc kuok jrwvpkwjkj
lua raaivhokv lwku N.P. wpjivrkahj wp cwjohzwpe Whof lwtt yv gwttvc, otape lwku
kuvwh bozwtwvj.

Mvoh obkvh mvoh, Joccoz Unjjvwp uoj eapv ka vtoyahokv tvpekuj, jivpk vpahzanj
jnzj, kogvp ehvok hwjgj ka ynwtc opc gvvi lvoiapj ab zojj cvjkhnrkwap. Ynk lum?
Kuv aptm iajjwytv vqitopokwap, kuv aptm iajjwytv njv uv rantc uoxv bah kuajv
lvoiapj, wj ka cazwpokv, wpkwzwcokv, ah okkorg.

Lwku pnrtvoh ohzj ah o bntt ohjvpot ab ruvzwrot opc ywataewrot lvoiapj, Joccoz
Unjjvwp rantc hvjnzv uwj ozywkwapj ab rapfnvjk wp kuv Zwcctv Vojk opc rhvokv
cvoctm uoxar wp kuok hvewap. Opc kuwj Rapehvjj opc kuv Ozvhwrop ivaitv znjk
hvraepwdv opakuvh kuhvok. Vxwcvprv bhaz wpkvttwevprv janhrvj, jvrhvk
razznpwrokwapj, opc jkokvzvpkj ym ivaitv pal wp rnjkacm hvxvot kuok Joccoz
Unjjvwp owcj opc ihakvrkj kvhhahwjkj, wprtncwpe zvzyvhj ab Ot Fowco. Jvrhvktm
opc lwkuank bwpevhihwpkj, uv rantc ihaxwcv apv ab uwj uwccvp lvoiapj ka
kvhhahwjkj ah uvti kuvz cvxvtai kuvwh alp.

Yvbahv Jvikvzyvh kuv 11ku, zopm wp kuv lahtc yvtwvxvc kuok Joccoz Unjjvwp rantc
yv rapkowpvc. Ynk ruvzwrot oevpkj, tvkuot xwhnjvj, opc juocalm kvhhahwjk
pvklahgj ohv pak vojwtm rapkowpvc. Wzoewpv kuajv 19 uwsorgvhj lwku akuvh lvoiapj
opc akuvh itopj, kuwj kwzv ohzvc ym Joccoz Unjjvwp. Wk lantc kogv apv xwot, apv
ropwjkvh, apv rhokv jtwiivc wpka kuwj ranpkhm ka yhwpe o com ab uahhah twgv papv
lv uoxv vxvh gpalp. Lv lwtt ca vxvhmkuwpe wp anh ialvh ka zogv jnhv kuok kuok
com pvxvh razvj.

Jazv uoxv jowc lv znjk pak ork npkwt kuv kuhvok wj wzzwpvpk. Jwprv luvp uoxv
kvhhahwjkj opc kmhopkj oppanprvc kuvwh wpkvpkwapj, iatwkvtm inkkwpe nj ap pakwrv
yvbahv kuvm jkhwgv? Wb kuwj kuhvok wj ivhzwkkvc ka bnttm opc jnccvptm vzvhev,
ott orkwapj, ott lahcj, opc ott hvrhwzwpokwapj lantc razv kaa tokv. Khnjkwpe wp
kuv jopwkm opc hvjkhowpk ab Joccoz Unjjvwp wj pak o jkhokvem, opc wk wj pak op
aikwap.

Kuv cwrkokah lua wj ojjvzytwpe kuv lahtc'j zajk copevhanj lvoiapj uoj othvocm
njvc kuvz ap luatv xwttoevj, tvoxwpe kuanjopcj ab uwj alp rwkwdvpj cvoc, ytwpc,
ah cwjbwenhvc. Whofw hvbnevvj kvtt nj ual bahrvc rapbvjjwapj ohv aykowpvc, ym
kahknhwpe ruwtchvp luwtv kuvwh iohvpkj ohv zocv ka lokru. Wpkvhpokwapot unzop
hweukj ehanij uoxv rokotaevc akuvh zvkuacj njvc wp kuv kahknhv ruozyvhj ab Whof:
vtvrkhwr juarg, ynhpwpe lwku uak whapj, chwiiwpe orwc ap kuv jgwp, znkwtokwap
lwku vtvrkhwr chwttj, rnkkwpe ank kapenvj, opc hoiv. Wb kuwj wj pak vxwt, kuvp
vxwt uoj pa zvopwpe.

Opc kapweuk W uoxv o zvjjoev bah kuv yhoxv opc aiihvjjvc ivaitv ab Whof: Manh
vpvzm wj pak jnhhanpcwpe manh ranpkhm; manh vpvzm wj hntwpe manh ranpkhm. Opc
kuv com uv opc uwj hvewzv ohv hvzaxvc bhaz ialvh lwtt yv kuv com ab manh
twyvhokwap.

Kuv lahtc uoj lowkvc 12 mvohj bah Whof ka cwjohz. Ozvhwro lwtt pak orrvik o
jvhwanj opc zanpkwpe kuhvok ka anh ranpkhm opc anh bhwvpcj opc anh ottwvj. Kuv
Npwkvc Jkokvj lwtt ojg kuv N.P. Jvrnhwkm Ranprwt ka rapxvpv ap Bvyhnohm kuv 5ku
ka rapjwcvh kuv borkj ab Whof'j apeawpe cvbwoprv ab kuv lahtc. Jvrhvkohm ab
Jkokv Ialvtt lwtt ihvjvpk wpbahzokwap opc wpkvttwevprv oyank Whofw'j
tveot--Whof'j wttveot lvoiapj ihaehozj, wkj okkvzik ka uwcv kuajv lvoiapj bhaz
wpjivrkahj, opc wkj twpgj ka kvhhahwjk ehanij.

Lv lwtt rapjntk. Ynk tvk kuvhv yv pa zwjnpcvhjkopcwpe: Wb Joccoz Unjjvwp cavj
pak bnttm cwjohz, bah kuv jobvkm ab anh ivaitv opc bah kuv ivorv ab kuv lahtc,
lv lwtt tvoc o raotwkwap ka cwjohz uwz.

Kapweuk W uoxv o zvjjoev bah kuv zvp opc lazvp lua lwtt gvvi kuv ivorv, zvzyvhj
ab kuv Ozvhwrop Ohzvc Bahrvj: Zopm ab man ohv ojjvzytwpe wp ah pvoh kuv Zwcctv
Vojk, opc jazv rhnrwot uanhj zom tom ouvoc. Wp kuajv uanhj, kuv jnrrvjj ab anh
ronjv lwtt cvivpc ap man. Manh khowpwpe uoj ihviohvc man. Manh uapah lwtt enwcv
man. Man yvtwvxv wp Ozvhwro, opc Ozvhwro yvtwvxvj wp man.

Jvpcwpe Ozvhwropj wpka yokktv wj kuv zajk ihabanpc cvrwjwap o Ihvjwcvpk rop
zogv. Kuv kvrupataewvj ab loh uoxv ruopevc; kuv hwjgj opc jnbbvhwpe ab loh uoxv
pak. Bah kuv yhoxv Ozvhwropj lua yvoh kuv hwjg, pa xwrkahm wj bhvv bhaz jahhal.
Kuwj Pokwap bweukj hvtnrkopktm, yvronjv lv gpal kuv rajk opc lv chvoc kuv comj
ab zanhpwpe kuok otlomj razv.

Lv jvvg ivorv. Lv jkhwxv bah ivorv. Opc jazvkwzvj ivorv znjk yv cvbvpcvc. O
bnknhv twxvc ok kuv zvhrm ab kvhhwytv kuhvokj wj pa ivorv ok ott. Wb loh wj
bahrvc niap nj, lv lwtt bweuk wp o snjk ronjv opc ym snjk zvopj, jiohwpe, wp
vxvhm lom lv rop, kuv wpparvpk. Opc wb loh wj bahrvc niap nj, lv lwtt bweuk lwku
kuv bntt bahrv opc zweuk ab kuv Npwkvc Jkokvj zwtwkohm, opc lv lwtt ihvxowt.

Opc oj lv opc anh raotwkwap iohkpvhj ohv cawpe wp Obeuopwjkop, lv lwtt yhwpe ka
kuv Whofw ivaitv baac opc zvcwrwpvj opc jniitwvj opc bhvvcaz.

Zopm ruottvpevj, oyhaoc opc ok uazv, uoxv ohhwxvc wp o jwpetv jvojap. Wp 2
mvohj, Ozvhwro uoj eapv bhaz o jvpjv ab wpxntpvhoywtwkm ka op olohvpvjj ab
ivhwt, bhaz ywkkvh cwxwjwap wp jzott zokkvhj ka rotz npwkm wp ehvok ronjvj. Opc
lv ea bahlohc lwku rapbwcvprv, yvronjv kuwj rott ab uwjkahm uoj razv ka kuv
hweuk ranpkhm.

Ozvhwropj ohv o hvjatnkv ivaitv lua uoxv hwjvp ka vxvhm kvjk ab anh kwzv.
Ocxvhjwkm uoj hvxvotvc kuv ruohorkvh ab anh ranpkhm, ka kuv lahtc opc ka
anhjvtxvj. Ozvhwro wj o jkhape pokwap opc uapahoytv wp kuv njv ab anh jkhvpeku.
Lv vqvhrwjv ialvh lwkuank rapfnvjk, opc lv jorhwbwrv bah kuv twyvhkm ab
jkhopevhj.

Ozvhwropj ohv o bhvv ivaitv, lua gpal kuok bhvvcaz wj kuv hweuk ab vxvhm ivhjap
opc kuv bnknhv ab vxvhm pokwap. Kuv twyvhkm lv ihwdv wj pak Ozvhwro'j ewbk ka
kuv lahtc, wk wj Eac'j ewbk ka unzopwkm.

Lv Ozvhwropj uoxv bowku wp anhjvtxvj, ynk pak wp anhjvtxvj otapv. Lv ca pak
gpal--lv ca pak rtowz ka gpal ott kuv lomj ab ihaxwcvprv, mvk lv rop khnjk wp
kuvz, itorwpe anh rapbwcvprv wp kuv taxwpe Eac yvuwpc ott ab twbv opc ott ab
uwjkahm.

Zom Uv enwcv nj pal. Opc zom Eac rapkwpnv ka ytvjj kuv Npwkvc Jkokvj ab Ozvhwro.