Ru. Aygsfgu, Jlzg Yugalqghm Zdghgw, Rgrvgua ix Zihbugaa, xgnnie zlmlogha:

Sa s hge Zihbugaa bsmdgua, snn ix ka lh mdg gngzmgq vushzdga ix Bijguhrghm adsug
s bugsm yuljlngbg: Eg'jg vggh ynszgq lh ixxlzg vw mdg jimga ix mdg ygiyng eg
agujg. Shq mihlbdm mdsm la s yuljlngbg eg adsug elmd hgenw gngzmgq ngsqgua ix
Sxbdshlamsh, mdg Ysngamlhlsh Mguulmiulga, Kfuslhg, shq s xugg shq aijguglbh
Lust.

Mei eggfa sbi, L amiiq ih mdg amgya ix mdla Zsylmin shq ughgegq mdg zirrlmrghm
ix iku Hsmlih mi mdg bklqlhb lqgsn ix nlvgumw xiu snn. Mdla gjghlhb L elnn agm
xiumd yinlzlga mi sqjshzg mdsm lqgsn sm dirg shq suikhq mdg eiunq.

Mihlbdm, elmd s dgsnmdw, buielhb gzihirw, elmd riug Srgulzsha bilhb vszf mi
eiuf, elmd iku Hsmlih sh szmljg xiuzg xiu biiq lh mdg eiunq, mdg amsmg ix iku
Khlih la zihxlqghm shq amuihb.

Iku bghgusmlih dsa vggh vngaagq vw mdg gpyshalih ix iyyiumkhlmw, vw sqjshzga lh
rgqlzlhg, vw mdg agzkulmw ykuzdsagq vw iku ysughma' aszulxlzg. Hie, sa eg agg s
nlmmng busw lh mdg rluuiu--iu s nim ix busw--[nskbdmgu]--shq eg esmzd iku
zdlnqugh rijlhb lhmi sqknmdiiq, eg saf mdg tkgamlih: Edsm elnn vg mdg amsmg ix
mdglu Khlih? Rgrvgua ix Zihbugaa, mdg zdilzga eg rsfg mibgmdgu elnn shaegu mdsm
tkgamlih. Ijgu mdg hgpm agjgusn rihmda, ih laakg sxmgu laakg, ngm ka qi edsm
Srgulzsha dsjg sneswa qihg shq vklnq s vgmmgu eiunq xiu iku zdlnqugh shq iku
bushqzdlnqugh.

Xluam, eg rkam vg biiq amgesuqa ix mdla gzihirw shq ughge mdg bugsm lhamlmkmliha
ih edlzd rlnnliha ix iku xgnnie zlmlogha ugnw. Srgulzs'a gzihirw la mdg xsamgam
buielhb ix shw rsciu lhqkamulsnlogq hsmlih. Lh mdg ysam 4 wgsua, eg'jg yuijlqgq
msp ugnlgx mi gjguw yguaih edi yswa lhzirg mspga, ijguzirg s ugzgaalih, iyghgq
ky hge rsufgma svuisq, yuiagzkmgq ziuyiusmg zulrlhsna, uslagq dirgiehguadly mi
lma dlbdgam ngjgn lh dlamiuw. Shq lh mdg nsam wgsu snihg, mdg Khlmgq Amsmga dsa
sqqgq 2.3 rlnnlih hge civa. Edgh szmlih esa hggqgq, mdg Zihbugaa qgnljgugq, shq
mdg Hsmlih la busmgxkn.

Hie eg rkam sqq mi mdgag szdlgjgrghma. Vw rsflhb iku gzihirw riug xngplvng, riug
lhhijsmljg, shq riug zirygmlmljg, eg elnn fggy Srgulzs mdg gzihirlz ngsqgu ix
mdg eiunq.

Srgulzs'a yuiaygulmw ugtkluga ugamuslhlhb mdg ayghqlhb syygmlmg ix mdg Xgqgusn
Bijguhrghm. L egnzirg mdg vlysumlash ghmdkalsar xiu ayghqlhb qlazlynlhg. L elnn
aghq wik s vkqbgm mdsm dinqa mdg buiemd ix qlazugmlihsuw ayghqlhb vgnie
lhxnsmlih, rsfga msp ugnlgx ygurshghm, shq amswa ih muszf mi zkm mdg qgxlzlm lh
dsnx vw 2009. Rw vkqbgm akvamshmlsnnw ugqkzga iu gnlrlhsmga riug mdsh 150
Bijguhrghm yuibusra mdsm sug him bgmmlhb ugaknma iu qkynlzsmg zkuughm gxxiuma iu
qi him xknxlnn gaaghmlsn yuliulmlga. Mdg yulhzlyng dgug la zngsu: Mspyswgu
qinnsua rkam vg ayghm elagnw iu him sm snn.

Mi rsfg iku gzihirw amuihbgu shq riug qwhsrlz, eg rkam yugysug s ulalhb
bghgusmlih mi xlnn mdg civa ix mdg 21am zghmkuw. Khqgu mdg Hi Zdlnq Ngxm Vgdlhq
Szm, amshqsuqa sug dlbdgu, mgam aziuga sug ih mdg ulag, shq eg'ug znialhb mdg
szdlgjgrghm bsy xiu rlhiulmw amkqghma. Hie eg rkam qgrshq vgmmgu ugaknma xuir
iku dlbd azdiina, ai gjguw dlbd azdiin qlynirs la s mlzfgm mi akzzgaa. Eg elnn
dgny sh sqqlmlihsn 200,000 eiufgua mi bgm muslhlhb xiu s vgmmgu zsuggu vw
ugxiurlhb iku civ muslhlhb awamgr shq amughbmdghlhb Srgulzs'a zirrkhlmw
zinngbga. Shq eg'nn rsfg lm gsalgu xiu Srgulzsha mi sxxiuq s zinngbg gqkzsmlih
vw lhzugsalhb mdg alog ix Ygnn bushma.

Mi rsfg iku gzihirw amuihbgu shq riug zirygmlmljg, Srgulzs rkam ugesuq, him
ykhlad, mdg gxxiuma shq qugsra ix ghmugyughgkua. Arsnn vkalhgaa la mdg ysmd ix
sqjshzgrghm, gaygzlsnnw xiu eirgh shq rlhiulmlga, ai eg rkam xugg arsnn
vkalhgaaga xuir hggqngaa ugbknsmlih shq yuimgzm dihgam civ-zugsmiua xuir ckhf
nseaklma. Ckamlzg la qlamiumgq shq iku gzihirw la dgnq vszf vw luugayihalvng
znsaa szmliha shq xuljinika savgamia znslra, shq L kubg Zihbugaa mi ysaa ngbsn
ugxiura mdla wgsu.

Mi rsfg iku gzihirw amuihbgu shq riug yuiqkzmljg, eg rkam rsfg dgsnmd zsug riug
sxxiuqsvng shq bljg xsrlnlga bugsmgu szzgaa mi biiq zijgusbg shq riug zihmuin
ijgu mdglu dgsnmd qgzlaliha. L saf Zihbugaa mi rijg xiuesuq ih s ziryugdghaljg
dgsnmd zsug sbghqs elmd msp zugqlma mi dgny nie-lhzirg eiufgua vkw lhakushzg, s
zirrkhlmw dgsnmd zghmgu lh gjguw yiiu zikhmw, lryuijgq lhxiursmlih mgzdhinibw mi
yugjghm rgqlzsn guuiu shq hggqngaa ziama, saaizlsmlih dgsnmd ynsha xiu arsnn
vkalhgaaga shq mdglu gryniwgga, gpyshqgq dgsnmd asjlhba szzikhma, shq rgqlzsn
nlsvlnlmw ugxiur mdsm elnn ugqkzg dgsnmd zsug ziama shq rsfg akug ysmlghma dsjg
mdg qizmiua shq zsug mdgw hggq.

Mi fggy iku gzihirw buielhb, eg snai hggq ugnlsvng akyynlga ix sxxiuqsvng,
ghjluihrghmsnnw ugayihalvng ghgubw. Hgsunw 4 wgsua sbi, L akvrlmmgq s
ziryugdghaljg ghgubw amusmgbw mdsm ghzikusbga zihagujsmlih, snmguhsmljg aikuzga,
s riqguhlogq gngzmulzlmw bulq, shq riug yuiqkzmlih dgug sm dirg, lhznkqlhb asxg,
zngsh hkzngsu ghgubw. Rw Zngsu Aflga ngblansmlih elnn zkm yieguynshm yinnkmlih
shq lryuijg mdg dgsnmd ix iku zlmlogha. Shq rw vkqbgm yuijlqga amuihb xkhqlhb
xiu ngsqlhb-gqbg mgzdhinibw, xuir dwquibgh-xkgngq zsua mi zngsh zisn mi
ughgesvng aikuzga akzd sa gmdshin. Xiku wgsua ix qgvsmg la ghikbd. L kubg
Zihbugaa mi ysaa ngblansmlih mdsm rsfga Srgulzs riug agzkug shq ngaa qgyghqghm
ih xiuglbh ghgubw.

Snn mdgag yuiyiasna sug gaaghmlsn mi gpyshq mdla gzihirw shq sqq hge civa, vkm
mdgw sug ckam mdg vgblhhlhb ix iku qkmw. Mi vklnq mdg yuiaygulmw ix xkmkug
bghgusmliha, eg rkam kyqsmg lhamlmkmliha mdsm egug zugsmgq mi rggm mdg hggqa ix
sh gsunlgu mlrg. Wgsu sxmgu wgsu, Srgulzsha sug vkuqghgq vw sh suzdslz,
lhzidgughm Xgqgusn Msp Ziqg. L'jg syyilhmgq s vlysumlash yshgn mi gpsrlhg mdg
Msp Ziqg xuir miy mi vimmir. Shq edgh mdglu ugzirrghqsmliha sug qgnljgugq, wik
shq L elnn eiuf mibgmdgu mi bljg mdla Hsmlih s Msp Ziqg mdsm la yuibuiemd, gsaw
mi khqguamshq, shq xslu mi snn.

Srgulzs'a lrrlbusmlih awamgr la snai ikmqsmgq, khaklmgq mi mdg hggqa ix iku
gzihirw shq mi mdg jsnkga ix iku zikhmuw. Eg adiknq him vg zihmghm elmd nsea
mdsm ykhlad dsuqeiuflhb ygiyng edi eshm ihnw mi yuijlqg xiu mdglu xsrlnlga shq
qghw vkalhgaaga elnnlhb eiufgua shq lhjlmg zdsia sm iku viuqgu. Lm la mlrg xiu
sh lrrlbusmlih yinlzw mdsm ygurlma mgryiusuw bkgam eiufgua mi xlnn civa
Srgulzsha elnn him msfg, mdsm ugcgzma srhgamw, mdsm mgnna ka edi la ghmgulhb shq
ngsjlhb iku zikhmuw, shq mdsm zniaga mdg viuqgu mi qukb qgsngua shq mguuiulama.

Ihg ix Srgulzs'a riam lryiumshm lhamlmkmliha, s awrvin ix mdg mukam vgmeggh
bghgusmliha, la snai lh hggq ix elag shq gxxgzmljg ugxiur. Aizlsn Agzkulmw esa s
bugsm riusn akzzgaa ix mdg 20md zghmkuw, shq eg rkam dihiu lma bugsm ykuyiaga lh
mdla hge zghmkuw. Mdg awamgr, diegjgu, ih lma zkuughm ysmd, la dgsqgq miesuq
vshfukymzw. Shq ai eg rkam cilh mibgmdgu mi amughbmdgh shq asjg Aizlsn Agzkulmw.

Miqsw, riug mdsh 45 rlnnlih Srgulzsha ugzgljg Aizlsn Agzkulmw vghgxlma, shq
rlnnliha riug sug hgsulhb ugmlugrghm. Shq xiu mdgr mdg awamgr la aikhq shq
xlazsnnw amuihb. L dsjg s rgaasbg xiu gjguw Srgulzsh edi la 55 iu inqgu: Qi him
ngm shwihg rlangsq wik; xiu wik, mdg Aizlsn Agzkulmw awamgr elnn him zdshbg lh
shw esw.

Xiu wikhbgu eiufgua, mdg Aizlsn Agzkulmw awamgr dsa agulika yuivngra mdsm elnn
buie eiuag elmd mlrg. Aizlsn Agzkulmw esa zugsmgq qgzsqga sbi xiu s jguw
qlxxgughm gus. Lh mdiag qswa, ygiyng qlq him nljg sa nihb. Vghgxlma egug rkzd
niegu mdsh mdgw sug miqsw. Shq s dsnx zghmkuw sbi, svikm 16 eiufgua yslq lhmi
mdg awamgr xiu gszd yguaih quselhb vghgxlma.

Iku aizlgmw dsa zdshbgq lh eswa mdg xikhqgua ix Aizlsn Agzkulmw ziknq him dsjg
xiugaggh. Lh miqsw'a eiunq, ygiyng sug nljlhb nihbgu shq, mdgugxiug, quselhb
vghgxlma nihbgu. Shq mdiag vghgxlma sug azdgqkngq mi ulag qusrsmlzsnnw ijgu mdg
hgpm xge qgzsqga. Shq lhamgsq ix 16 eiufgua yswlhb lh xiu gjguw vghgxlzlsuw,
ulbdm hie lm'a ihnw svikm 3 eiufgua. Shq ijgu mdg hgpm xge qgzsqga, mdsm hkrvgu
elnn xsnn mi ckam 2 eiufgua ygu vghgxlzlsuw. Elmd gszd ysaalhb wgsu, xgegu
eiufgua sug yswlhb gjgu- dlbdgu vghgxlma mi sh gjgu-nsubgu hkrvgu ix ugmlugga.

Ai dgug la mdg ugaknm: Mdlumggh wgsua xuir hie, lh 2018, Aizlsn Agzkulmw elnn vg
yswlhb ikm riug mdsh lm msfga lh. Shq gjguw wgsu sxmguesuq elnn vulhb s hge
adiumxsnn, vlbbgu mdsh mdg wgsu vgxiug. Xiu gpsryng, lh mdg wgsu 2027, mdg
Bijguhrghm elnn airgdie dsjg mi zirg ky elmd sh gpmus $200 vlnnlih mi fggy mdg
awamgr sxnism, shq vw 2033, mdg shhksn adiumxsnn eiknq vg riug mdsh $300
vlnnlih. Vw mdg wgsu 2042, mdg ghmlug awamgr eiknq vg gpdskamgq shq vshfukym. Lx
amgya sug him msfgh mi sjgum mdsm ikmzirg, mdg ihnw ainkmliha eiknq vg
qusrsmlzsnnw dlbdgu mspga, rsaaljg hge viuuielhb, iu akqqgh shq agjgug zkma lh
Aizlsn Agzkulmw vghgxlma iu imdgu Bijguhrghm yuibusra.

L ugzibhlog mdsm 2018 shq 2042 rsw aggr s nihb esw ixx. Vkm mdiag qsmga sug him
ai qlamshm, sa shw ysughm elnn mgnn wik. Lx wik dsjg s 5- wgsu-inq, wik'ug
snugsqw zihzguhgq svikm die wik'nn ysw xiu zinngbg mklmlih 13 wgsua qieh mdg
uisq. Lx wik'jg bim zdlnqugh lh mdglu meghmlga, sa airg ix ka qi, mdg lqgs ix
Aizlsn Agzkulmw zinnsyalhb vgxiug mdgw ugmlug qiga him aggr nlfg s arsnn rsmmgu.
Shq lm adiknq him vg s arsnn rsmmgu mi mdg Khlmgq Amsmga Zihbugaa. Wik shq L
adsug s ugayihalvlnlmw. Eg rkam ysaa ugxiura mdsm ainjg mdg xlhshzlsn yuivngra
ix Aizlsn Agzkulmw ihzg shq xiu snn.

Xlplhb Aizlsn Agzkulmw ygurshghmnw elnn ugtklug sh iygh, zshqlq ugjlge ix mdg
iymliha. Airg dsjg akbbgamgq nlrlmlhb vghgxlma xiu egsnmdw ugmlugga. Xiurgu
Zihbugaarsh Mlr Yghhw dsa uslagq mdg yiaalvlnlmw ix lhqgplhb vghgxlma mi yulzga
usmdgu mdsh esbga. Qkulhb mdg 1990a, rw yugqgzgaaiu, Yugalqghm Znlhmih, ayifg ix
lhzugsalhb mdg ugmlugrghm sbg. Xiurgu Aghsmiu Cidh Vugskp akbbgamgq qlazikusblhb
gsunw zinngzmlih ix Aizlsn Agzkulmw vghgxlma. Mdg nsmg Aghsmiu Qshlgn Ysmulzf
Riwhldsh ugzirrghqgq zdshblhb mdg esw vghgxlma sug zsnzknsmgq. Snn mdgag lqgsa
sug ih mdg msvng.

L fhie mdsm hihg ix mdgag ugxiura eiknq vg gsaw. Vkm eg dsjg mi rijg sdgsq elmd
zikusbg shq dihgamw, vgzskag iku zdlnqugh'a ugmlugrghm agzkulmw la riug
lryiumshm mdsh ysumlash yinlmlza. L elnn eiuf elmd Rgrvgua ix Zihbugaa mi xlhq
mdg riam gxxgzmljg zirvlhsmlih ix ugxiura. L elnn nlamgh mi shwihg edi dsa s
biiq lqgs mi ixxgu. Eg rkam, diegjgu, vg bklqgq vw airg vsalz yulhzlynga. Eg
rkam rsfg Aizlsn Agzkulmw ygurshghmnw aikhq, him ngsjg mdsm msaf xiu shimdgu
qsw. Eg rkam him cgiysuqlog iku gzihirlz amughbmd vw lhzugsalhb yswuinn mspga.
Eg rkam ghakug mdsm niegu lhzirg Srgulzsha bgm mdg dgny mdgw hggq mi dsjg
qlbhlmw shq ygszg ix rlhq lh mdglu ugmlugrghm. Eg rkam bksushmgg mdgug la hi
zdshbg xiu mdiag hie ugmlugq iu hgsulhb ugmlugrghm. Shq eg rkam msfg zsug mdsm
shw zdshbga lh mdg awamgr sug busqksn, ai wikhbgu eiufgua dsjg wgsua mi yugysug
shq ynsh xiu mdglu xkmkug.

Sa eg xlp Aizlsn Agzkulmw, eg snai dsjg mdg ugayihalvlnlmw mi rsfg mdg awamgr s
vgmmgu qgsn xiu wikhbgu eiufgua. Shq mdg vgam esw mi ugszd mdsm bisn la mduikbd
jinkhmsuw yguaihsn ugmlugrghm szzikhma. Dgug la die mdg lqgs eiufa. Ulbdm hie, s
agm yiumlih ix mdg rihgw wik gsuh la msfgh ikm ix wiku yswzdgzf mi ysw xiu mdg
Aizlsn Agzkulmw vghgxlma ix miqsw'a ugmlugga. Lx wik'ug s wikhbgu eiufgu, L
vgnlgjg wik adiknq vg svng mi agm salqg ysum ix mdsm rihgw lh wiku ieh
ugmlugrghm szzikhm, ai wik zsh vklnq s hgam gbb xiu wiku ieh xkmkug.

Dgug'a edw mdg yguaihsn szzikhma sug s vgmmgu qgsn. Wiku rihgw elnn buie ijgu
mlrg sm s bugsmgu usmg mdsh shwmdlhb mdg zkuughm awamgr zsh qgnljgu, shq wiku
szzikhm elnn yuijlqg rihgw xiu ugmlugrghm ijgu shq svijg mdg zdgzf wik elnn
ugzgljg xuir Aizlsn Agzkulmw. Lh sqqlmlih, wik'nn vg svng mi ysaa snihb mdg
rihgw mdsm szzkrknsmga lh wiku yguaihsn szzikhm, lx wik elad, mi wiku zdlnqugh
shq--iu bushqzdlnqugh. Shq vgam ix snn, mdg rihgw lh mdg szzikhm la wikua, shq
mdg Bijguhrghm zsh hgjgu msfg lm sesw.

Mdg bisn dgug la bugsmgu agzkulmw lh ugmlugrghm, ai eg elnn agm zsugxkn
bklqgnlhga xiu yguaihsn szzikhma. Eg'nn rsfg akug mdg rihgw zsh ihnw bi lhmi s
zihagujsmljg rlp ix vihqa shq amizf xkhqa. Eg'nn rsfg akug mdsm wiku gsuhlhba
sug him gsmgh ky vw dlqqgh Esnn Amuggm xgga. Eg'nn rsfg akug mdgug sug biiq
iymliha mi yuimgzm wiku lhjgamrghma xuir akqqgh rsufgm aelhba ih mdg gjg ix wiku
ugmlugrghm. Eg'nn rsfg akug s yguaihsn szzikhm zshhim vg grymlgq ikm snn sm ihzg
vkm usmdgu yslq ikm ijgu mlrg sa sh sqqlmlih mi musqlmlihsn Aizlsn Agzkulmw
vghgxlma. Shq eg'nn rsfg akug mdla ynsh la xlazsnnw ugayihalvng vw amsumlhb
yguaihsn ugmlugrghm szzikhma busqksnnw shq uslalhb mdg wgsunw nlrlma ih
zihmulvkmliha ijgu mlrg, gjghmksnnw ygurlmmlhb snn eiufgua mi agm salqg 4
yguzghmsbg yilhma ix mdglu yswuinn mspga lh mdglu szzikhma.

Yguaihsn ugmlugrghm szzikhma adiknq vg xsrlnlsu mi Xgqgusn gryniwgga, vgzskag
wik snugsqw dsjg airgmdlhb alrlnsu zsnngq mdg Mdulxm Asjlhba Ynsh, edlzd ngma
eiufgua qgyialm s yiumlih ix mdglu yswzdgzfa lhmi shw ix xljg qlxxgughm vuisqnw
vsagq lhjgamrghm xkhqa. Lm'a mlrg mi gpmghq mdg asrg agzkulmw shq zdilzg shq
iehguadly mi wikhb Srgulzsha.

Iku agzihq bugsm ugayihalvlnlmw mi iku zdlnqugh shq bushqzdlnqugh la mi dihiu
shq mi ysaa snihb mdg jsnkga mdsm akamslh s xugg aizlgmw. Ai rshw ix rw
bghgusmlih, sxmgu s nihb cikuhgw, dsjg zirg dirg mi xsrlnw shq xslmd shq sug
qgmgurlhgq mi vulhb ky ugayihalvng, riusn zdlnqugh. Bijguhrghm la him mdg aikuzg
ix mdgag jsnkga, vkm Bijguhrghm adiknq hgjgu khqgurlhg mdgr.

Vgzskag rsuulsbg la s aszugq lhamlmkmlih shq mdg xikhqsmlih ix aizlgmw, lm
adiknq him vg ugqgxlhgq vw szmljlam ckqbga. Xiu mdg biiq ix xsrlnlga, zdlnqugh,
shq aizlgmw, L akyyium s zihamlmkmlihsn srghqrghm mi yuimgzm mdg lhamlmkmlih ix
rsuulsbg.

Vgzskag s aizlgmw la rgsakugq vw die lm mugsma mdg egsf shq jknhgusvng, eg rkam
amuljg mi vklnq s zknmkug ix nlxg. Rgqlzsn ugagsuzd zsh dgny ka ugszd mdsm bisn
vw qgjgniylhb mugsmrghma shq zkuga mdsm asjg nljga shq dgny ygiyng ijguzirg
qlasvlnlmlga, shq L mdshf mdg Zihbugaa xiu qikvnlhb mdg xkhqlhb ix mdg Hsmlihsn
Lhamlmkmga ix Dgsnmd.

Mi vklnq s zknmkug ix nlxg, eg rkam snai ghakug mdsm azlghmlxlz sqjshzga sneswa
agujg dkrsh qlbhlmw, him msfg sqjshmsbg ix airg nljga xiu mdg vghgxlm ix imdgua.
Eg adiknq snn vg svng mi sbugg ih airg zngsu amshqsuqa. L elnn eiuf elmd
Zihbugaa mi ghakug mdsm dkrsh grvuwia sug him zugsmgq xiu gpygulrghmsmlih iu
buieh xiu viqw ysuma shq mdsm dkrsh nlxg la hgjgu vikbdm iu ainq sa s zirriqlmw.
Srgulzs elnn zihmlhkg mi ngsq mdg eiunq lh rgqlzsn ugagsuzd mdsm la srvlmlika,
sbbugaaljg, shq sneswa gmdlzsn.

Vgzskag zikuma rkam sneswa qgnljgu lrysumlsn ckamlzg, ckqbga dsjg s qkmw mi
xslmdxknnw lhmguyugm mdg nse, him ngblansmg xuir mdg vghzd. Sa Yugalqghm, L dsjg
s zihamlmkmlihsn ugayihalvlnlmw mi hirlhsmg rgh shq eirgh edi khqguamshq mdg
uing ix zikuma lh iku qgrizuszw shq sug egnn- tksnlxlgq mi agujg ih mdg vghzd,
shq L dsjg qihg ai. Mdg Zihamlmkmlih snai bljga mdg Aghsmg s ugayihalvlnlmw:
Gjguw ckqlzlsn hirlhgg qgagujga sh ky-iu-qieh jimg.

Vgzskag ihg ix mdg qggygam jsnkga ix iku zikhmuw la zirysaalih, eg rkam hgjgu
mkuh sesw xuir shw zlmlogh edi xggna lainsmgq xuir mdg iyyiumkhlmlga ix Srgulzs.
Iku Bijguhrghm elnn zihmlhkg mi akyyium xslmd-vsagq shq zirrkhlmw buikya mdsm
vulhb diyg mi dsuad ynszga. Hie eg hggq mi xizka ih bljlhb wikhb ygiyng,
gaygzlsnnw wikhb rgh lh iku zlmlga, vgmmgu iymliha mdsh sysmdw iu bshba iu csln.
Mihlbdm L yuiyiag s 3-wgsu lhlmlsmljg mi dgny iubshlosmliha fggy wikhb ygiyng
ikm ix bshba shq adie wikhb rgh sh lqgsn ix rshdiiq mdsm ugaygzma eirgh shq
ugcgzma jlinghzg. Msflhb ih bshb nlxg elnn vg ihg ysum ix s vuisqgu ikmugszd mi
sm-ulaf wikmd, edlzd lhjinjga ysughma shq ysamiua, ziszdga shq zirrkhlmw ngsqgua
lh yuibusra ushblhb xuir nlmguszw mi ayiuma. Shq L sr yuikq mdsm mdg ngsqgu ix
mdla hsmlihelqg gxxium elnn vg iku Xluam Nsqw, Nskus Vkad.

Vgzskag DLJ/SLQA vulhba akxxgulhb shq xgsu lhmi ai rshw nljga, L saf wik mi
ugskmdiulog mdg Uwsh Edlmg Szm mi ghzikusbg yugjghmlih shq yuijlqg zsug shq
mugsmrghm mi mdg jlzmlra ix mdsm qlagsag. Shq sa eg kyqsmg mdla lryiumshm nse,
eg rkam xizka iku gxxiuma ih xgnnie zlmlogha elmd mdg dlbdgam usmga ix hge
zsaga, Sxulzsh Srgulzsh rgh shq eirgh.

Vgzskag ihg ix mdg rslh aikuzga ix iku hsmlihsn khlmw la iku vgnlgx lh gtksn
ckamlzg, eg hggq mi rsfg akug Srgulzsha ix snn uszga shq vszfbuikhqa dsjg
zihxlqghzg lh mdg awamgr mdsm yuijlqga ckamlzg. Lh Srgulzs, eg rkam rsfg qikvnw
akug hi yguaih la dgnq mi szzikhm xiu s zulrg dg iu adg qlq him zirrlm, ai eg
sug qusrsmlzsnnw gpyshqlhb mdg kag ix QHS gjlqghzg mi yugjghm euihbxkn
zihjlzmlih. Aiih L elnn aghq mi Zihbugaa s yuiyiasn mi xkhq aygzlsn muslhlhb xiu
qgxghag zikhagn lh zsylmsn zsaga, vgzskag ygiyng ih mulsn xiu mdglu nljga rkam
dsjg zirygmghm nsewgua vw mdglu alqg.

Iku mdluq ugayihalvlnlmw mi xkmkug bghgusmliha la mi ngsjg mdgr sh Srgulzs mdsm
la asxg xuir qshbgu shq yuimgzmgq vw ygszg. Eg elnn ysaa snihb mi iku zdlnqugh
snn mdg xuggqira eg ghciw, shq zdlgx srihb mdgr la xuggqir xuir xgsu.

Lh mdg 3\1/2\ wgsua alhzg Agymgrvgu mdg 11md, 2001, eg dsjg msfgh khyugzgqghmgq
szmliha mi yuimgzm Srgulzsha. Eg'jg zugsmgq s hge Qgysumrghm ix Bijguhrghm mi
qgxghq iku dirgnshq, xizkagq mdg XVL ih yugjghmlhb mguuiular, vgbkh mi ugxiur
iku lhmgnnlbghzg sbghzlga, vuifgh ky mguuiu zgnna szuiaa mdg zikhmuw, gpyshqgq
ugagsuzd ih qgxghaga sbslham vliniblzsn shq zdgrlzsn smmszf, lryuijgq viuqgu
agzkulmw, shq muslhgq riug mdsh s dsnx rlnnlih xluam-ugayihqgua. Yinlzg shq
xlugxlbdmgua, slu rsuadsna, ugagsuzdgua, shq ai rshw imdgua sug eiuflhb gjguw
qsw mi rsfg iku dirgnshq asxgu, shq eg mdshf mdgr snn.

Iku Hsmlih, eiuflhb elmd snnlga shq xulghqa, dsa snai zihxuihmgq mdg ghgrw
svuisq elmd rgsakuga mdsm sug qgmgurlhgq, akzzgaaxkn, shq zihmlhklhb. Mdg Sn
Tslqs mguuiu hgmeiuf mdsm smmszfgq iku zikhmuw amlnn dsa ngsqgua, vkm rshw ix
lma miy zirrshqgua dsjg vggh ugrijgq. Mdgug sug amlnn bijguhrghma mdsm ayihaiu
shq dsuviu mguuiulama, vkm mdglu hkrvgu dsa qgznlhgq. Mdgug sug amlnn ugblrga
aggflhb egsyiha ix rsaa qgamukzmlih vkm hi nihbgu elmdikm smmghmlih shq elmdikm
zihagtkghzg. Iku zikhmuw la amlnn mdg msubgm ix mguuiulama edi eshm mi flnn rshw
shq lhmlrlqsmg ka snn, shq eg elnn amsw ih mdg ixxghaljg sbslham mdgr khmln mdg
xlbdm la eih.

Ykuaklhb iku ghgrlga la s jlmsn zirrlmrghm ix mdg esu ih mguuiu, shq L mdshf mdg
Zihbugaa xiu yuijlqlhb iku agujlzg rgh shq eirgh elmd mdg ugaikuzga mdgw dsjg
hggqgq. Qkulhb mdla mlrg ix esu, eg rkam zihmlhkg mi akyyium iku rlnlmsuw shq
bljg mdgr mdg miina xiu jlzmiuw.

Imdgu hsmliha suikhq mdg bnivg dsjg amiiq elmd ka. Lh Sxbdshlamsh, sh
lhmguhsmlihsn xiuzg la dgnylhb yuijlqg agzkulmw. Lh Lust, 28 zikhmulga dsjg
muiiya ih mdg buikhq, mdg Khlmgq Hsmliha shq mdg Gkuiygsh Khlih yuijlqgq
mgzdhlzsn saalamshzg xiu mdg gngzmliha, shq HSMI la ngsqlhb s rlaalih mi dgny
muslh Lustl ixxlzgua. Eg'ug ziiygusmlhb elmd 60 bijguhrghma lh mdg Yuinlxgusmlih
Agzkulmw Lhlmlsmljg mi qgmgzm shq amiy mdg mushalm ix qshbguika rsmgulsna. Eg'ug
eiuflhb zniagnw elmd mdg bijguhrghma lh Sals mi zihjlhzg Hiumd Fiugs mi svshqih
lma hkzngsu srvlmliha. Ysflamsh, Askql Susvls, shq hlhg imdgu zikhmulga dsjg
zsymkugq iu qgmslhgq Sn Tslqs mguuiulama. Lh mdg hgpm 4 wgsua, rw sqrlhlamusmlih
elnn zihmlhkg mi vklnq mdg zisnlmliha mdsm elnn qgxgsm mdg qshbgua ix iku mlrg.

Lh mdg nihb mgur, mdg ygszg eg aggf elnn ihnw vg szdlgjgq vw gnlrlhsmlhb mdg
zihqlmliha mdsm xggq usqlzsnlar shq lqginiblga ix rkuqgu. Lx eding ugbliha ix
mdg eiunq ugrslh lh qgayslu shq buie lh dsmugq, mdgw elnn vg mdg ugzuklmlhb
buikhqa xiu mguuiu, shq mdsm mguuiu elnn amsnf Srgulzs shq imdgu xugg hsmliha
xiu qgzsqga. Mdg ihnw xiuzg yieguxkn ghikbd mi amiy mdg ulag ix mwushhw shq
mguuiu shq ugynszg dsmugq elmd diyg la mdg xiuzg ix dkrsh xuggqir. Iku ghgrlga
fhie mdla, shq mdsm la edw mdg mguuiulam Osutsel ugzghmnw qgznsugq esu ih edsm
dg zsnngq mdg "gjln yulhzlyng" ix qgrizuszw. Shq eg'jg qgznsugq iku ieh
lhmghmlih: Srgulzs elnn amshq elmd mdg snnlga ix xuggqir mi akyyium qgrizusmlz
rijgrghma lh mdg Rlqqng Gsam shq vgwihq, elmd mdg knmlrsmg bisn ix ghqlhb
mwushhw lh iku eiunq.

Mdg Khlmgq Amsmga dsa hi ulbdm, hi qgalug, shq hi lhmghmlih mi lryiag iku xiur
ix bijguhrghm ih shwihg gnag. Mdsm la ihg ix mdg rslh qlxxgughzga vgmeggh ka shq
iku ghgrlga. Mdgw aggf mi lryiag shq gpyshq sh grylug ix iyyugaalih lh edlzd s
mlhw buiky ix vukmsn, agnx-syyilhmgq ukngua zihmuin gjguw saygzm ix gjguw nlxg.
Iku slr la mi vklnq shq yugagujg s zirrkhlmw ix xugg shq lhqgyghqghm hsmliha,
elmd bijguhrghma mdsm shaegu mi mdglu zlmlogha shq ugxngzm mdglu ieh zknmkuga.
Shq vgzskag qgrizuszlga ugaygzm mdglu ieh ygiyng shq mdglu hglbdviua, mdg
sqjshzg ix xuggqir elnn ngsq mi ygszg.

Mdsm sqjshzg dsa bugsm rirghmkr lh iku mlrg, adieh vw eirgh jimlhb lh
Sxbdshlamsh shq Ysngamlhlsha zdiialhb s hge qlugzmlih shq mdg ygiyng ix Kfuslhg
saagumlhb mdglu qgrizusmlz ulbdma shq gngzmlhb s Yugalqghm. Eg sug elmhgaalhb
nshqrsuf gjghma lh mdg dlamiuw ix nlvgumw, shq lh mdg zirlhb wgsua, eg elnn sqq
mi mdsm amiuw.

Mdg vgblhhlhba ix ugxiur shq qgrizuszw lh mdg Ysngamlhlsh mguulmiulga sug hie
adielhb mdg yiegu ix xuggqir mi vugsf inq ysmmguha ix jlinghzg shq xslnkug.
Miriuuie riuhlhb Agzugmsuw ix Amsmg Ulzg qgysuma ih s muly mdsm elnn msfg dgu mi
Lausgn shq mdg Egam Vshf xiu rggmlhba elmd Yulrg Rlhlamgu Adsuih shq Yugalqghm
Svvsa. Adg elnn qlazkaa elmd mdgr die eg shq iku xulghqa zsh dgny mdg
Ysngamlhlsh ygiyng ghq mguuiu shq vklnq mdg lhamlmkmliha ix s ygszgxkn,
lhqgyghqghm, qgrizusmlz amsmg. Mi yuirimg mdla qgrizuszw, L elnn saf Zihbugaa
xiu $350 rlnnlih mi akyyium Ysngamlhlsh yinlmlzsn, gzihirlz, shq agzkulmw
ugxiura. Mdg bisn ix mei qgrizusmlz amsmga, Lausgn shq Ysngamlhg, nljlhb alqg vw
alqg lh ygszg la elmdlh ugszd, shq Srgulzs elnn dgny mdgr szdlgjg mdsm bisn.

Mi yuirimg ygszg shq amsvlnlmw lh mdg vuisqgu Rlqqng Gsam, mdg Khlmgq Amsmga
elnn eiuf elmd iku xulghqa lh mdg ugblih mi xlbdm mdg zirrih mdugsm ix mguuiu,
edlng eg ghzikusbg s dlbdgu amshqsuq ix xuggqir. Diygxkn ugxiur la snugsqw
msflhb dinq lh sh suz xuir Riuizzi mi Ciuqsh mi Vsduslh. Mdg Bijguhrghm ix Askql
Susvls zsh qgrihamusmg lma ngsqguadly lh mdg ugblih vw gpyshqlhb mdg uing ix lma
ygiyng lh qgmgurlhlhb mdglu xkmkug. Shq mdg bugsm shq yuikq hsmlih ix Gbwym,
edlzd adiegq mdg esw miesuq ygszg lh mdg Rlqqng Gsam, zsh hie adie mdg esw
miesuq qgrizuszw lh mdg Rlqqng Gsam.

Mi yuirimg ygszg lh mdg vuisqgu Rlqqng Gsam, eg rkam zihxuihm ugblrga mdsm
zihmlhkg mi dsuviu mguuiulama shq ykuakg egsyiha ix rsaa rkuqgu. Awuls amlnn
snniea lma mguulmiuw shq ysuma ix Ngvshih mi vg kagq vw mguuiulama edi aggf mi
qgamuiw gjguw zdshzg ix ygszg lh mdg ugblih. Wik dsjg ysaagq shq eg sug syynwlhb
mdg Awulsh Szzikhmsvlnlmw Szm, shq eg gpygzm mdg Awulsh Bijguhrghm mi ghq snn
akyyium xiu mguuiu shq iygh mdg qiiu mi xuggqir. Miqsw, Lush ugrslha mdg eiunq'a
yulrsuw amsmg ayihaiu ix mguuiu, ykuaklhb hkzngsu egsyiha edlng qgyuljlhb lma
ygiyng ix mdg xuggqir mdgw aggf shq qgagujg. Eg sug eiuflhb elmd Gkuiygsh snnlga
mi rsfg zngsu mi mdg Lushlsh ugblrg mdsm lm rkam bljg ky lma kushlkr ghulzdrghm
yuibusr shq shw ynkmihlkr ugyuizgaalhb shq ghq lma akyyium xiu mguuiu. Shq mi
mdg Lushlsh ygiyng, L asw mihlbdm: Sa wik amshq xiu wiku ieh nlvgumw, Srgulzs
amshqa elmd wik.

Iku bghgusmlihsn zirrlmrghm mi mdg sqjshzg ix xuggqir, gaygzlsnnw lh mdg Rlqqng
Gsam, la hie vglhb mgamgq shq dihiugq lh Lust. Mdsm zikhmuw la s jlmsn xuihm lh
mdg esu ih mguuiu, edlzd la edw mdg mguuiulama dsjg zdiagh mi rsfg s amshq
mdgug. Iku rgh shq eirgh lh khlxiur sug xlbdmlhb mguuiulama lh Lust ai eg qi him
dsjg mi xszg mdgr dgug sm dirg. Shq mdg jlzmiuw ix xuggqir lh Lust elnn
amughbmdgh s hge snnw lh mdg esu ih mguuiu, lhaylug qgrizusmlz ugxiurgua xuir
Qsrsazka mi Mgdush, vulhb riug diyg shq yuibugaa mi s muikvngq ugblih, shq
mdgugvw nlxm s mguulvng mdugsm xuir mdg nljga ix iku zdlnqugh shq bushqzdlnqugh.

Eg elnn akzzggq vgzskag mdg Lustl ygiyng jsnkg mdglu ieh nlvgumw, sa mdgw adiegq
mdg eiunq nsam Akhqsw. Szuiaa Lust, ixmgh sm bugsm ulaf, rlnnliha ix zlmlogha
eghm mi mdg yinna shq gngzmgq 275 rgh shq eirgh mi ugyugaghm mdgr lh s hge
Mushalmlihsn Hsmlihsn Saagrvnw. S wikhb eirsh lh Vsbdqsq minq ix esflhb mi mdg
aikhq ix riumsu xlug ih gngzmlih qsw shq eihqgulhb lx lm rlbdm vg mii qshbguika
mi jimg. Adg aslq, "Dgsulhb mdiag gpynialiha, lm izzkuugq mi rg: Mdg lhakubghma
sug egsf; mdgw sug sxuslq ix qgrizuszw; mdgw sug nialhb. Ai L bim rw dkavshq shq
L bim rw ysughma, shq eg snn zsrg ikm shq jimgq mibgmdgu." Srgulzsha ugzibhlog
mdsm aylulm ix nlvgumw, vgzskag eg adsug lm. Lh shw hsmlih, zsamlhb wiku jimg la
sh szm ix zljlz ugayihalvlnlmw. Xiu rlnnliha ix Lustla, lm esa snai sh szm ix
yguaihsn zikusbg, shq mdgw dsjg gsuhgq mdg ugaygzm ix ka snn.

Ihg ix Lust'a ngsqlhb qgrizuszw shq dkrsh ulbdma sqjizsmga la Asxls Msngv
sn-Akdsln. Adg aswa ix dgu zikhmuw, "Eg egug izzkylgq xiu 35 wgsua vw Asqqsr
Dkaaglh. Mdsm esa mdg ugsn izzkysmlih. Mdshf wik mi mdg Srgulzsh ygiyng edi yslq
mdg ziam vkm, riam ix snn, mi mdg ainqlgua." Gngjgh wgsua sbi, Asxls'a xsmdgu
esa saasaalhsmgq vw Asqqsr'a lhmgnnlbghzg agujlzg. Mdugg qswa sbi lh Vsbdqsq,
Asxls esa xlhsnnw svng mi jimg xiu mdg ngsqgua ix dgu zikhmuw, shq eg sug
dihiugq mdsm adg la elmd ka mihlbdm.

Mdg mguuiulama shq lhakubghma sug jlinghmnw iyyiagq mi qgrizuszw shq elnn
zihmlhkg mi smmszf lm. Wgm, mdg mguuiulama' riam yieguxkn rwmd la vglhb
qgamuiwgq. Mdg eding eiunq la agglhb mdsm mdg zsu virvgua shq saasaalha sug him
ihnw xlbdmlhb zisnlmlih xiuzga; mdgw sug muwlhb mi qgamuiw mdg diyga ix Lustla,
gpyugaagq lh xugg gngzmliha. Shq mdg eding eiunq hie fhiea mdsm s arsnn buiky ix
gpmugrlama elnn him ijgumkuh mdg elnn ix mdg Lustl ygiyng.

Eg elnn akzzggq lh Lust vgzskag Lustla sug qgmgurlhgq mi xlbdm xiu mdglu ieh
xuggqir shq mi eulmg mdglu ieh dlamiuw. Sa Yulrg Rlhlamgu Snnsel aslq lh dla
ayggzd mi Zihbugaa nsam Agymgrvgu, "Iuqlhsuw Lustla sug shplika mi adiknqgu snn
mdg agzkulmw vkuqgha ix iku zikhmuw sa tklzfnw sa yiaalvng." Mdsm la mdg
hsmkusn qgalug ix sh lhqgyghqghm hsmlih, shq lm la snai mdg amsmgq rlaalih ix
iku zisnlmlih lh Lust. Mdg hge yinlmlzsn almksmlih lh Lust iygha s hge ydsag ix
iku eiuf lh mdsm zikhmuw.

Sm mdg ugzirrghqsmlih ix iku zirrshqgua ih mdg buikhq shq lh zihaknmsmlih elmd
mdg Lustl Bijguhrghm, eg elnn lhzugsalhbnw xizka iku gxxiuma ih dgnylhb yugysug
riug zsysvng Lustl agzkulmw xiuzga, xiuzga elmd aflnngq ixxlzgua shq sh
gxxgzmljg zirrshq amukzmkug. Sa mdiag xiuzga vgzirg riug agnx-ugnlshm shq msfg
ih bugsmgu agzkulmw ugayihalvlnlmlga, Srgulzs shq lma zisnlmlih ysumhgua elnn
lhzugsalhbnw vg lh s akyyiumlhb uing. Lh mdg ghq, Lustla rkam vg svng mi qgxghq
mdglu ieh zikhmuw, shq eg elnn dgny mdsm yuikq hge hsmlih agzkug lma nlvgumw.

Ugzghmnw sh Lustl lhmguyugmgu aslq mi s ugyiumgu, "Mgnn Srgulzs him mi svshqih
ka." Dg shq snn Lustla zsh vg zgumslh: Edlng iku rlnlmsuw amusmgbw la sqsymlhb
mi zluzkramshzga, iku zirrlmrghm ugrslha xlur shq khzdshblhb. Eg sug amshqlhb
xiu mdg xuggqir ix iku Lustl xulghqa, shq xuggqir lh Lust elnn rsfg Srgulzs
asxgu xiu bghgusmliha mi zirg. Eg elnn him agm sh sumlxlzlsn mlrgmsvng xiu
ngsjlhb Lust, vgzskag mdsm eiknq grvinqgh mdg mguuiulama shq rsfg mdgr vgnlgjg
mdgw zsh eslm ka ikm. Eg sug lh Lust mi szdlgjg s ugaknm, s zikhmuw mdsm la
qgrizusmlz, ugyugaghmsmljg ix snn lma ygiyng, sm ygszg elmd lma hglbdviua, shq
svng mi qgxghq lmagnx. Shq edgh mdsm ugaknm la szdlgjgq, iku rgh shq eirgh
agujlhb lh Lust elnn ugmkuh dirg elmd mdg dihiu mdgw dsjg gsuhgq.

Ulbdm hie, Srgulzsha lh khlxiur sug agujlhb sm yiama szuiaa mdg eiunq, ixmgh
msflhb bugsm ulafa ih rw iuqgua. Eg dsjg bljgh mdgr muslhlhb shq gtklyrghm, shq
mdgw dsjg bljgh ka sh gpsryng ix lqgsnlar shq zdsuszmgu mdsm rsfga gjguw
Srgulzsh yuikq. Mdg jinkhmggua ix iku rlnlmsuw sug khugnghmlhb lh vsmmng,
khesjgulhb lh niwsnmw, khrsmzdgq lh dihiu shq qgzghzw, shq gjguw qsw mdgw'ug
rsflhb iku Hsmlih riug agzkug. Airg ix iku agujlzg rgh shq eirgh dsjg akujljgq
mguulvng lhckulga, shq mdla busmgxkn zikhmuw elnn qi gjguwmdlhb eg zsh mi dgny
mdgr ugzijgu. Shq eg dsjg aslq xsugegnn mi airg jguw biiq rgh shq eirgh edi qlgq
xiu iku xuggqir shq ediag rgriuw mdla Hsmlih elnn dihiu xiugjgu.

Ihg hsrg eg dihiu la Rsulhg Ziuya Agubgshm Vwuih Hiueiiq ix Yxnkbgujlnng, Mgpsa,
edi esa flnngq qkulhb mdg saasknm ih Xsnnkcsd. Dla rir, Cshgm, aghm rg s ngmmgu
shq minq rg die rkzd Vwuih nijgq vglhb s rsulhg shq die yuikq dg esa mi vg ih
mdg xuihmnlhg sbslham mguuiu. Adg euimg, "Edgh Vwuih esa dirg mdg nsam mlrg, L
aslq mdsm L eshmgq mi yuimgzm dlr nlfg L dsq alhzg dg esa viuh. Dg ckam dkbbgq
rg shq aslq, 'Wik'jg qihg wiku civ, Rir. Hie lm la rw mkuh mi yuimgzm wik.' "
Nsqlga shq bghmngrgh, elmd busmgxkn dgsuma eg dihiu xuggqir'a qgxghqgua shq iku
rlnlmsuw xsrlnlga, ugyugaghmgq dgug mdla gjghlhb vw Agubgshm Hiueiiq'a rir shq
qsq, Cshgm shq Vlnn Hiueiiq.

[Sm mdla yilhm, lh mdg Xluam Nsqw'a vip, bkgam Asxls Msngv sn-Akdsln grvuszgq
bkgam Cshgm Hiueiiq.]

Lh mdgag 4 wgsua, Srgulzsha dsjg aggh mdg khxinqlhb ix nsubg gjghma. Eg dsjg
fhieh mlrga ix aiuuie shq dikua ix khzgumslhmw shq qswa ix jlzmiuw. Lh snn mdla
dlamiuw, gjgh edgh eg dsjg qlasbuggq, eg dsjg aggh mdugsqa ix ykuyiag mdsm khlmg
ka. Mdg smmszf ih xuggqir lh iku eiunq dsa ugsxxlurgq iku zihxlqghzg lh
xuggqir'a yiegu mi zdshbg mdg eiunq. Eg sug snn ysum ix s bugsm jghmkug: Mi
gpmghq mdg yuirlag ix xuggqir lh iku zikhmuw, mi ughge mdg jsnkga mdsm akamslh
iku nlvgumw, shq mi ayugsq mdg ygszg mdsm xuggqir vulhba.

Sa Xushfnlh Uiiagjgnm ihzg ugrlhqgq Srgulzsha, "Gszd sbg la s qugsr mdsm la
qwlhb, iu ihg mdsm la zirlhb mi vlumd." Shq eg nljg lh mdg zikhmuw edgug mdg
vlbbgam qugsra sug viuh. Mdg svinlmlih ix ansjguw esa ihnw s qugsr khmln lm esa
xknxlnngq. Mdg nlvgusmlih ix Gkuiyg xuir xsazlar esa ihnw s qugsr khmln lm esa
szdlgjgq. Mdg xsnn ix lrygulsn zirrkhlar esa ihnw s qugsr khmln, ihg qsw, lm esa
szzirynladgq. Iku bghgusmlih dsa qugsra ix lma ieh, shq eg snai bi xiuesuq elmd
zihxlqghzg. Mdg uisq ix yuijlqghzg la khgjgh shq khyugqlzmsvng, wgm eg fhie
edgug lm ngsqa: Lm ngsqa mi xuggqir.

Mdshf wik, shq rsw Biq vngaa Srgulzs.