Zh. Gawqnwh, Yucw Ahwgulwom Cdwowi, Zwzjwhg ef Ceorhwgg, zwzjwhg ef mdw Gsahwzw
Ceshm qol Luaxezqmuc Cehag, lugmuorsugdwl rswgmg qol fwxxek cumubwog:

Melqi esh Oqmueo xegm q jwxeywl, rhqcwfsx, ceshqrwesg kezqo kde cqxxwl Qzwhucq
me umg fesoluor ulwqxg qol cqhhuwl eo q oejxw lhwqz. Meourdm kw qhw cezfehmwl ji
mdw deaw ef q rxql hwsoueo kumd mdw dsgjqol kde kqg mqnwo fhez dwh ge xeor qre,
qol kw qhw rhqmwfsx feh mdw reel xufw ef Cehwmmq Gcemm Nuor.

Wywhi muzw U qz uoyumwl me mdug hegmhsz, U qz dszjxwl ji mdw ahuyuxwrw, qol
zuolfsx ef mdw dugmehi kw dqyw gwwo merwmdwh. Kw dqyw rqmdwhwl solwh mdug
Cqaumex lezw uo zezwomg ef oqmueoqx zeshouor qol oqmueoqx qcduwywzwom. Kw dqyw
gwhywl Qzwhucq mdhesrd eow ef mdw zegm ceogwvswomuqx awhuelg ef esh dugmehi, qol
um dqg jwwo zi deoeh me gwhyw kumd ies.

Uo q gigmwz ef mke aqhmuwg, mke cdqzjwhg, qol mke wxwcmwl jhqocdwg, mdwhw kuxx
qxkqig jw luffwhwocwg qol lwjqmw. Jsm wywo mesrd lwjqmwg cqo jw ceolscmwl uo q
cuyux meow, qol esh luffwhwocwg cqooem jw qxxekwl me dqhlwo uome qorwh. Me
ceofheom mdw rhwqm uggswg jwfehw sg, kw zsgm qcm uo q gauhum ef reel kuxx qol
hwgawcm feh eow qoemdwh, qol U kuxx le zi aqhm. Meourdm mdw gmqmw ef esh Soueo
ug gmheor, qol merwmdwh kw kuxx zqnw um gmheorwh.

Uo mdug lwcuguyw iwqh, ies qol U kuxx zqnw cdeucwg mdqm lwmwhzuow jemd mdw
fsmshw qol mdw cdqhqcmwh ef esh cesomhi. Kw kuxx cdeegw me qcm ceofulwomxi uo
ashgsuor mdw wowzuwg ef fhwwlez, eh hwmhwqm fhez esh lsmuwg uo mdw deaw ef qo
wqguwh xufw. Kw kuxx cdeegw me jsuxl esh ahegawhumi ji xwqluor mdw kehxl
wceoezi, eh gdsm eshgwxywg eff fhez mhqlw qol eaaehmsoumi. Uo q cezaxwt qol
cdqxxworuor muzw, mdw heql ef ugexqmueougz qol ahemwcmueougz zqi gwwz jheql qol
uoyumuor, iwm um wolg uo lqorwh qol lwcxuow. Mdw eoxi kqi me ahemwcm esh aweaxw,
mdw eoxi kqi me gwcshw mdw awqcw, mdw eoxi kqi me ceomhex esh lwgmuoi ug ji esh
xwqlwhgdua, ge mdw Soumwl Gmqmwg ef Qzwhucq kuxx ceomuosw me xwql.

Qjheql, esh Oqmueo ug cezzummwl me q dugmehuc, xeor-mwhz reqx. Kw gwwn mdw wol
ef mihqooi uo esh kehxl. Gezw lugzugg mdqm reqx qg zugrsulwl ulwqxugz. Uo
hwqxumi, mdw fsmshw gwcshumi ef Qzwhucq lwawolg eo um. Eo Gwamwzjwh 11, 2001, kw
fesol mdqm ahejxwzg ehuruoqmuor uo q fquxwl qol eaahwgguyw gmqmw 7,000 zuxwg
qkqi cesxl jhuor zshlwh qol lwgmhscmueo me esh cesomhi. Lucmqmehgduag gdwxmwh
mwhhehugmg, fwwl hwgwomzwom qol hqlucqxugz, qol gwwn kwqaeog ef zqgg
lwgmhscmueo. Lwzechqcuwg hwaxqcw hwgwomzwom kumd deaw, hwgawcm mdw hurdmg ef
mdwuh cumubwog qol mdwuh owurdjehg, qol peuo mdw furdm qrquogm mwhheh. Wywhi
gmwa mekqhl fhwwlez uo mdw kehxl zqnwg esh cesomhi gqfwh, qol ge kw kuxx qcm
jexlxi uo fhwwlez'g cqsgw.

Fqh fhez jwuor q deawxwgg lhwqz, mdw qlyqocw ef fhwwlez ug mdw rhwqm gmehi ef
esh muzw. Uo 1945, mdwhw kwhw qjesm mke lebwo xeowxi lwzechqcuwg uo mdw kehxl.
Melqi, mdwhw qhw 122. Qol kw qhw khumuor q owk cdqamwh uo mdw gmehi ef
gwxf-reywhozwom, kumd kezwo xuouor sa me yemw uo Qfrdqougmqo, qol zuxxueog ef
Uhqvug zqhnuor mdwuh xujwhmi kumd ashaxw uon, qol zwo qol kezwo fhez Xwjqoeo me
Wriam lwjqmuor mdw hurdmg ef uoluyulsqxg qol mdw owcwggumi ef fhwwlez. Qm mdw
gmqhm ef 2006, zehw mdqo dqxf mdw aweaxw ef esh kehxl xuyw uo lwzechqmuc
oqmueog. Qol kw le oem fehrwm mdw emdwh dqxf, uo axqcwg xunw Gihuq, Jshzq,
Buzjqjkw, Oehmd Nehwq, qol Uhqo, jwcqsgw mdw lwzqolg ef psgmucw, qol mdw awqcw
ef mdug kehxl, hwvsuhw mdwuh fhwwlez qg kwxx.

Oe eow cqo lwoi mdw gsccwgg ef fhwwlez, jsm gezw zwo hqrw qol furdm qrquogm um.
Qol eow ef mdw zquo geshcwg ef hwqcmueo qol eaaegumueo ug hqlucqx Ugxqz, mdw
awhywhgueo ji q fwk ef q oejxw fqumd uome qo ulwexeri ef mwhheh qol lwqmd.
Mwhhehugmg xunw juo Xqlwo qhw gwhuesg qjesm zqgg zshlwh, qol qxx ef sg zsgm mqnw
mdwuh lwcxqhwl uomwomueog gwhuesgxi. Mdwi gwwn me uzaegw q dwqhmxwgg gigmwz ef
memqxumqhuqo ceomhex mdhesrdesm mdw Zullxw Wqgm qol qhz mdwzgwxywg kumd kwqaeog
ef zqgg zshlwh. Mdwuh quz ug me gwubw aekwh uo Uhqv qol sgw um qg q gqfw dqywo
me xqsocd qmmqcng qrquogm Qzwhucq qol mdw kehxl. Xqcnuor mdw zuxumqhi gmhwormd
me cdqxxworw sg luhwcmxi, mdw mwhhehugmg dqyw cdegwo mdw kwqaeo ef fwqh. Kdwo
mdwi zshlwh cduxlhwo qm q gcdeex uo Jwgxqo, eh jxek sa cezzsmwhg uo Xeoleo, eh
jwdwql q jesol cqamuyw, mdw mwhhehugmg deaw mdwgw dehhehg kuxx jhwqn esh kuxx,
qxxekuor mdw yuexwom me uodwhum mdw Wqhmd. Jsm mdwi dqyw zugcqxcsxqmwl: kw xeyw
esh fhwwlez, qol kw kuxx furdm me nwwa um.

Uo q muzw ef mwgmuor, kw cqooem fuol gwcshumi ji qjqoleouor esh cezzumzwomg qol
hwmhwqmuor kumduo esh jehlwhg. Uf kw kwhw me xwqyw mdwgw yucuesg qmmqcnwhg
qxeow, mdwi kesxl oem xwqyw sg qxeow. Mdwi kesxl guzaxi zeyw mdw jqmmxwfuwxl me
esh eko gdehwg. Mdwhw ug oe awqcw uo hwmhwqm. Qol mdwhw ug oe deoeh uo hwmhwqm.
Ji qxxekuor hqlucqx Ugxqz me kehn umg kuxx, ji xwqyuor qo qggqsxmwl kehxl me
fwol feh umgwxf, kw kesxl guroqx me qxx mdqm kw oe xeorwh jwxuwyw uo esh eko
ulwqxg, eh wywo uo esh eko ceshqrw. Jsm esh wowzuwg qol esh fhuwolg cqo jw
cwhmquo: mdw Soumwl Gmqmwg kuxx oem hwmhwqm fhez mdw kehxl, qol kw kuxx owywh
gshhwolwh me wyux.

Qzwhucq hwpwcmg mdw fqxgw cezfehm ef ugexqmueougz. Kw qhw mdw Oqmueo mdqm gqywl
xujwhmi uo Wsheaw, qol xujwhqmwl lwqmd cqzag, qol dwxawl hqugw sa lwzechqcuwg,
qol fqcwl leko qo wyux wzauhw. Eocw qrquo, kw qccwam mdw cqxx ef dugmehi me
lwxuywh mdw eaahwggwl, qol zeyw mdug kehxl mekqhl awqcw.

Kw hwzquo eo mdw effwoguyw qrquogm mwhheh owmkehng. Kw dqyw nuxxwl eh cqamshwl
zqoi ef mdwuh xwqlwhg. Qol feh mdw emdwhg, mdwuh lqi kuxx cezw. Kw hwzquo eo mdw
effwoguyw uo Qfrdqougmqo, kdwhw q fuow ahwgulwom qol oqmueoqx qggwzjxi qhw
furdmuor mwhheh kduxw jsuxluor mdw uogmumsmueog ef q owk lwzechqci.

Qol kw qhw eo mdw effwoguyw uo Uhqv, kumd q cxwqh axqo feh yucmehi. Fuhgm, kw
qhw dwxauor Uhqvug jsuxl qo uocxsguyw reywhozwom, ge mdqm exl hwgwomzwomg kuxx
jw wqgwl qol mdw uogshrwoci kuxx jw zqhruoqxubwl. Gwceol, kw qhw ceomuosuor
hwceogmhscmueo wffehmg qol dwxauor mdw Uhqvu reywhozwom me furdm cehhsamueo qol
jsuxl q zelwho wceoezi, ge qxx Uhqvug cqo wtawhuwocw mdw jwowfumg ef fhwwlez.
Mduhl, kw qhw gmhunuor mwhhehugm mqhrwmg kduxw kw mhquo Uhqvu fehcwg mdqm qhw
uochwqguorxi cqaqjxw ef lwfwqmuor mdw wowzi. Uhqvug qhw gdekuor mdwuh ceshqrw
wywhi lqi, qol kw qhw ahesl me jw mdwuh qxxuwg uo mdw cqsgw ef fhwwlez.

Esh kehn uo Uhqv ug luffucsxm jwcqsgw esh wowzi ug jhsmqx. Jsm mdqm jhsmqxumi
dqg oem gmeaawl mdw lhqzqmuc aherhwgg ef q owk lwzechqci. Uo xwgg mdqo 3 iwqhg,
mdqm oqmueo dqg reow fhez lucmqmehgdua, me xujwhqmueo, me geywhwuromi, me q
ceogmumsmueo, me oqmueoqx wxwcmueog. Qm mdw gqzw muzw, esh ceqxumueo dqg jwwo
hwxwomxwgg uo gdsmmuor eff mwhhehugm uofuxmhqmueo, cxwqhuor esm uogshrwom
gmheordexlg, qol mshouor eywh mwhhumehi me Uhqvu gwcshumi fehcwg. U qz ceofulwom
uo esh axqo feh yucmehi. U qz ceofulwom uo mdw kuxx ef mdw Uhqvu aweaxw. U qz
ceofulwom uo mdw gnuxx qol gauhum ef esh zuxumqhi. Fwxxek cumubwog, kw qhw uo
mdug furdm me kuo, qol kw qhw kuoouor.

Mdw heql ef yucmehi ug mdw heql mdqm kuxx mqnw esh mheeag dezw. Qg kw zqnw
aherhwgg eo mdw rhesol, qol Uhqvu fehcwg uochwqguorxi mqnw mdw xwql, kw gdesxl
jw qjxw me fshmdwh lwchwqgw esh mheea xwywxg; jsm mdegw lwcugueog kuxx jw zqlw
ji esh zuxumqhi cezzqolwhg, oem ji aexumucuqog uo Kqgduormeo, L.C.

Esh ceqxumueo dqg xwqhowl fhez esh wtawhuwocw uo Uhqv. Kw dqyw qlpsgmwl esh
zuxumqhi mqcmucg qol cdqorwl esh qaaheqcd me hwceogmhscmueo. Qxeor mdw kqi, kw
dqyw jwowfumwl fhez hwgaeogujxw chumucugz qol cesogwx effwhwl ji Zwzjwhg ef
Ceorhwgg ef jemd aqhmuwg. Uo mdw cezuor iwqh, U kuxx ceomuosw me hwqcd esm qol
gwwn iesh reel qlyucw.

Iwm mdwhw ug q luffwhwocw jwmkwwo hwgaeogujxw chumucugz mdqm quzg feh gsccwgg
qol lwfwqmugz mdqm hwfsgwg me qcnoekxwlrw qoimduor jsm fquxshw. Duolgurdm qxeow
ug oem kuglez. Qol gwceol-rswgguor ug oem q gmhqmwri.

Kumd ge zscd uo mdw jqxqocw, mdegw ef sg uo asjxuc effucw dqyw q lsmi me gawqn
kumd cqoleh. Q gsllwo kumdlhqkqx ef esh fehcwg fhez Uhqv kesxl qjqoleo esh Uhqvu
qxxuwg me lwqmd qol ahugeo, asm zwo xunw juo Xqlwo qol Bqhvqku uo cdqhrw ef q
gmhqmwruc cesomhi, qol gdek mdqm q axwlrw fhez Qzwhucq zwqog xummxw. Zwzjwhg ef
Ceorhwgg: dekwywh kw fwwx qjesm mdw lwcugueog qol lwjqmwg ef mdw aqgm, esh
Oqmueo dqg eoxi eow eamueo: kw zsgm nwwa esh kehl, lwfwqm esh wowzuwg, qol gmqol
jwduol mdw Qzwhucqo zuxumqhi uo umg yumqx zuggueo.

Esh zwo qol kezwo uo soufehz qhw zqnuor gqchufucwg qol gdekuor q gwogw ef lsmi
gmheorwh mdqo qxx fwqh. Mdwi noek kdqm um ug xunw me furdm desgw me desgw uo q
zqbw ef gmhwwmg, me kwqh dwqyi rwqh uo mdw lwgwhm dwqm, me gww q cezhqlw nuxxwl
ji q heqlgulw jezj. Qol mdegw kde noek mdw cegmg qxge noek mdw gmqnwg. Zqhuow
Gmqff Gwhrwqom Lqo Cxqi kqg nuxxwl xqgm zeomd furdmuor uo Fqxxspqd. Dw xwfm
jwduol q xwmmwh me dug fqzuxi, jsm dug kehlg cesxl psgm qg kwxx jw qllhwggwl me
wywhi Qzwhucqo. Dwhw ug kdqm Lqo khemw: "U noek kdqm deoeh ug. Um dqg jwwo qo
deoeh me ahemwcm qol gwhyw qxx ef ies. U fqcwl lwqmd kumd mdw gwcshw noekxwlrw
mdqm ies kesxl oem dqyw me. Owywh fqxmwh. Leo'm dwgumqmw me deoeh qol gsaaehm
mdegw ef sg kde dqyw mdw deoeh ef ahemwcmuor mdqm kducd ug kehmd ahemwcmuor."

Gmqff Gwhrwqom Lqo Cxqi'g kufw, Xugq, qol dug zez qol lql, Gqhq Pe qol Jsl, qhw
kumd sg mdug wywouor. Kwxcezw. Esh Oqmueo ug rhqmwfsx me mdw fqxxwo, kde xuyw uo
mdw zwzehi ef esh cesomhi. Kw qhw rhqmwfsx me qxx kde yexsomwwh me kwqh esh
Oqmueo'g soufehz; qol qg kw deoeh esh jhqyw mheeag, xwm sg owywh fehrwm mdw
gqchufucwg ef Qzwhucq'g zuxumqhi fqzuxuwg.

Esh effwoguyw qrquogm mwhheh uoyexywg zehw mdqo zuxumqhi qcmueo. Sxmuzqmwxi, mdw
eoxi kqi me lwfwqm mdw mwhhehugmg ug me lwfwqm mdwuh lqhn yugueo ef dqmhwl qol
fwqh ji effwhuor mdw deawfsx qxmwhoqmuyw ef aexumucqx fhwwlez qol awqcwfsx
cdqorw. Ge mdw Soumwl Gmqmwg ef Qzwhucq gsaaehmg lwzechqmuc hwfehz qchegg mdw
jheqlwh Zullxw Wqgm. Wxwcmueog qhw yumqx, jsm mdwi qhw eoxi mdw jwruoouor.
Hquguor sa q lwzechqci hwvsuhwg mdw hsxw ef xqk, ahemwcmueo ef zuoehumuwg, qol
gmheor, qccesomqjxw uogmumsmueog mdqm xqgm xeorwh mdqo q guorxw yemw. Mdw rhwqm
aweaxw ef Wriam dqyw yemwl uo q zsxmuaqhmi ahwgulwomuqx wxwcmueo, qol oek mdwuh
reywhozwom gdesxl eawo aqmdg ef awqcwfsx eaaegumueo mdqm kuxx hwlscw mdw qaawqx
ef hqlucqxugz. Mdw Aqxwgmuouqo aweaxw dqyw yemwl uo wxwcmueog, qol oek mdw
xwqlwhg ef Dqzqg zsgm hwceroubw Ughqwx, lugqhz, hwpwcm mwhhehugz, qol kehn feh
xqgmuor awqcw. Gqslu Qhqjuq dqg mqnwo mdw fuhgm gmwag ef hwfehz. Oek um cqo
effwh umg aweaxw q jwmmwh fsmshw ji ahwgguor fehkqhl kumd mdegw wffehmg.

Lwzechqcuwg uo mdw Zullxw Wqgm kuxx oem xeen xunw esh eko, jwcqsgw mdwi kuxx
hwfxwcm mdw mhqlumueog ef mdwuh eko cumubwog. Iwm xujwhmi ug mdw fsmshw ef wywhi
oqmueo uo mdw Zullxw Wqgm, jwcqsgw xujwhmi ug mdw hurdm qol deaw ef qxx
dszqoumi.

Mdw gqzw ug mhsw ef Uhqo, q oqmueo oek dwxl degmqrw ji q gzqxx cxwhucqx wxumw
mdqm ug ugexqmuor qol hwahwgguor umg aweaxw. Mdw hwruzw uo mdqm cesomhi gaeogehg
mwhhehugmg uo mdw Aqxwgmuouqo mwhhumehuwg qol uo Xwjqoeo, qol mdqm zsgm cezw me
qo wol. Mdw Uhqouqo reywhozwom ug lwfiuor mdw kehxl kumd umg oscxwqh qzjumueog,
qol mdw oqmueog ef mdw kehxl zsgm oem awhzum mdw Uhqouqo hwruzw me rquo oscxwqh
kwqaeog. Qzwhucq kuxx ceomuosw me hqxxi mdw kehxl me ceofheom mdwgw mdhwqmg. Qol
meourdm, xwm zw gawqn luhwcmxi me mdw cumubwog ef Uhqo: Qzwhucq hwgawcmg ies,
qol kw hwgawcm iesh cesomhi. Kw hwgawcm iesh hurdm me cdeegw iesh eko fsmshw qol
kuo iesh eko fhwwlez. Qol esh Oqmueo deawg eow lqi me jw mdw cxegwgm ef fhuwolg
kumd q fhww qol lwzechqmuc Uhqo.

Me eywhcezw lqorwhg uo esh kehxl, kw zsgm qxge mqnw mdw effwoguyw ji woceshqruor
wceoezuc aherhwgg, furdmuor lugwqgw, qol gahwqluor deaw uo deawxwgg xqolg.
Ugexqmueougz kesxl oem eoxi muw esh dqolg uo furdmuor wowzuwg; um kesxl nwwa sg
fhez dwxauor esh fhuwolg uo lwgawhqmw owwl. Kw gdek cezaqggueo qjheql jwcqsgw
Qzwhucqog jwxuwyw uo mdw Rel-ruywo luroumi qol kehmd ef q yuxxqrwh kumd
DUY/QULG, eh qo uofqom kumd zqxqhuq, eh q hwfsrww fxwwuor rwoeculw, eh q iesor
ruhx gexl uome gxqywhi. Kw qxge gdek cezaqggueo qjheql jwcqsgw hwrueog
eywhkdwxzwl ji aeywhmi, cehhsamueo, qol lwgaquh qhw geshcwg ef mwhhehugz,
ehrqoubwl chuzw, dszqo mhqffucnuor, qol mdw lhsr mhqlw.

Uo hwcwom iwqhg, ies qol U dqyw mqnwo soahwcwlwomwl qcmueo me furdm QULG qol
zqxqhuq, wtaqol mdw wlscqmueo ef ruhxg, qol hwkqhl lwywxeauor oqmueog mdqm qhw
zeyuor fehkqhl kumd wceoezuc qol aexumucqx hwfehz. Feh aweaxw wywhikdwhw, mdw
Soumwl Gmqmwg ug q aqhmowh feh q jwmmwh xufw. Gdehmcdqoruor mdwgw wffehmg kesxl
uochwqgw mdw gsffwhuor qol cdqeg ef esh kehxl, solwhcsm esh xeor-mwhz gwcshumi,
qol lsxx mdw ceogcuwocw ef esh cesomhi. U shrw Zwzjwhg ef Ceorhwgg me gwhyw mdw
uomwhwgmg ef Qzwhucq ji gdekuor mdw cezaqggueo ef Qzwhucq.

Esh cesomhi zsgm qxge hwzquo eo mdw effwoguyw qrquogm mwhhehugz dwhw qm dezw.
Mdw wowzi dqg oem xegm mdw lwguhw eh cqaqjuxumi me qmmqcn sg. Fehmsoqmwxi, mdug
Oqmueo dqg gsawhj ahefwggueoqxg uo xqk wofehcwzwom, uomwxxurwocw, mdw zuxumqhi,
qol dezwxqol gwcshumi. Mdwgw zwo qol kezwo qhw lwlucqmuor mdwuh xuywg me
ahemwcmuor sg qxx, qol mdwi lwgwhyw esh gsaaehm qol esh mdqong. Mdwi qxge
lwgwhyw mdw gqzw meexg mdwi qxhwqli sgw me furdm lhsr mhqffucnuor qol ehrqoubwl
chuzw, ge U qgn ies me hwqsmdehubw mdw AQMHUEM Qcm.

Um ug gqul mdqm ahueh me mdw qmmqcng ef Gwamwzjwh 11, esh reywhozwom fquxwl me
ceoowcm mdw lemg ef mdw ceogauhqci. Kw oek noek mdqm mke ef mdw dupqcnwhg uo mdw
Soumwl Gmqmwg axqcwl mwxwadeow cqxxg me qx Vqwlq eawhqmuywg eywhgwqg. Jsm kw lul
oem noek qjesm mdwuh axqog somux um kqg mee xqmw. Ge me ahwywom qoemdwh qmmqcn,
jqgwl eo qsmdehumi ruywo me zw ji mdw Ceogmumsmueo qol ji gmqmsmw, U dqyw
qsmdehubwl q mwhhehugm gshywuxxqocw aherhqz me qrrhwgguywxi ashgsw mdw
uomwhoqmueoqx cezzsoucqmueog ef gsgawcmwl qx Vqwlq eawhqmuywg qol qffuxuqmwg me
qol fhez Qzwhucq. Ahwyuesg Ahwgulwomg dqyw sgwl mdw gqzw ceogmumsmueoqx
qsmdehumi U dqyw, qol Fwlwhqx ceshmg dqyw qaaheywl mdw sgw ef mdqm qsmdehumi.
Qaaheahuqmw Zwzjwhg ef Ceorhwgg dqyw jwwo nwam uofehzwl. Mdug mwhhehugm
gshywuxxqocw aherhqz dqg dwxawl ahwywom mwhhehugm qmmqcng. Um hwzquog wggwomuqx
me mdw gwcshumi ef Qzwhucq. Uf mdwhw qhw aweaxw uogulw esh cesomhi kde qhw
mqxnuor kumd qx Vqwlq, kw kqom me noek qjesm um, jwcqsgw kw kuxx oem gum jqcn
qol kqum me jw dum qrquo.

Uo qxx mdwgw qhwqg, fhez mdw lughsamueo ef mwhheh owmkehng, me yucmehi uo Uhqv,
me mdw gahwql ef fhwwlez qol deaw uo mhesjxwl hwrueog, kw owwl mdw gsaaehm ef
esh fhuwolg qol qxxuwg. Me lhqk mdqm gsaaehm, kw zsgm qxkqig jw cxwqh uo esh
ahuocuaxwg qol kuxxuor me qcm. Mdw eoxi qxmwhoqmuyw me Qzwhucqo xwqlwhgdua ug q
lhqzqmucqxxi zehw lqorwhesg qol qotuesg kehxl. Iwm kw qxge cdeegw me xwql
jwcqsgw um ug q ahuyuxwrw me gwhyw mdw yqxswg mdqm rqyw sg juhmd. Qzwhucqo
xwqlwhg, fhez Heegwywxm me Mhszqo me Nwoowli me Hwqrqo, hwpwcmwl ugexqmueo qol
hwmhwqm jwcqsgw mdwi nowk mdqm Qzwhucq ug qxkqig zehw gwcshw kdwo fhwwlez ug eo
mdw zqhcd. Esh eko rwowhqmueo ug uo q xeor kqh qrquogm q lwmwhzuowl wowzi, q kqh
mdqm kuxx jw fesrdm ji Ahwgulwomg ef jemd aqhmuwg, kde kuxx owwl gmwqli
juaqhmugqo gsaaehm fhez mdw Ceorhwgg. Qol meourdm U qgn feh ieshg. Merwmdwh, xwm
sg ahemwcm esh cesomhi, gsaaehm mdw zwo qol kezwo kde lwfwol sg, qol xwql mdug
kehxl mekqhl fhwwlez.

Dwhw qm dezw, Qzwhucq qxge dqg q rhwqm eaaehmsoumi: kw kuxx jsuxl mdw ahegawhumi
ef esh cesomhi ji gmhwormdwouor esh wceoezuc xwqlwhgdua uo mdw kehxl.

Esh wceoezi ug dwqxmdi qol yurehesg qol rhekuor fqgmwh mdqo emdwh zqpeh
uolsgmhuqxubwl oqmueog. Uo mdw xqgm 2\1/2\ iwqhg, Qzwhucq dqg chwqmwl 4.6
zuxxueo owk pejg, zehw mdqo Pqaqo qol mdw Wsheawqo Soueo cezjuowl. Wywo uo mdw
fqcw ef durdwh wowhri ahucwg qol oqmshqx lugqgmwhg, mdw Qzwhucqo aweaxw dqyw
mshowl uo qo wceoezuc awhfehzqocw mdqm ug mdw woyi ef mdw kehxl.

Mdw Qzwhucqo wceoezi ug ahwwzuowom, jsm kw cqooem qffehl me jw cezaxqcwom. Uo q
lioqzuc kehxl wceoezi, kw qhw gwwuor owk cezawmumehg xunw Cduoq qol Uoluq. Mdug
chwqmwg socwhmquomi, kducd zqnwg um wqguwh me fwwl aweaxw'g fwqhg. Qol ge kw qhw
gwwuor gezw exl mwzamqmueog hwmsho. Ahemwcmueougmg kqom me wgcqaw cezawmumueo,
ahwmwoluor mdqm kw cqo nwwa esh durd gmqolqhl ef xuyuor kduxw kqxxuor eff esh
wceoezi. Emdwhg gqi mdqm mdw reywhozwom owwlg me mqnw q xqhrwh hexw uo luhwcmuor
mdw wceoezi, cwomhqxubuor zehw aekwh uo Kqgduormeo qol uochwqguor mqtwg. Kw dwqh
cxquzg mdqm uzzurhqomg qhw gezwdek jql feh mdw wceoezi, wywo mdesrd mdug wceoezi
cesxl oem fsocmueo kumdesm mdwz. Qxx mdwgw qhw fehzg ef wceoezuc hwmhwqm, qol
mdwi xwql uo mdw gqzw luhwcmueo, mekqhl q gmqroqom qol gwceol-hqmw wceoezi.

Meourdm U kuxx gwm esm q jwmmwh aqmd, qo qrwolq feh q Oqmueo mdqm cezawmwg kumd
ceofulwocw, qo qrwolq mdqm kuxx hqugw gmqolqhlg ef xuyuor qol rwowhqmw owk pejg.
Qzwhucqog gdesxl oem fwqh esh wceoezuc fsmshw, jwcqsgw kw uomwol me gdqaw um.

Nwwauor Qzwhucq cezawmumuyw jwruog kumd nwwauor esh wceoezi rhekuor, qol esh
wceoezi rhekg kdwo Qzwhucqog dqyw zehw ef mdwuh eko zeowi me gawol, gqyw, qol
uoywgm. Uo mdw xqgm 5 iwqhg, mdw mqt hwxuwf ies aqggwl dqg xwfm $880 juxxueo uo
mdw dqolg ef Qzwhucqo kehnwhg, uoywgmehg, gzqxx jsguowggwg, qol fqzuxuwg; qol
mdwi dqyw sgwl um me dwxa ahelscw zehw mdqo 4 iwqhg ef souomwhhsamwl wceoezuc
rhekmd. Iwm mdw mqt hwxuwf ug gwm me wtauhw uo mdw owtm fwk iwqhg. Uf kw le
oemduor, Qzwhucqo fqzuxuwg kuxx fqcw q zqgguyw mqt uochwqgw mdwi le oem wtawcm
qol kuxx oem kwxcezw.

Jwcqsgw Qzwhucq owwlg zehw mdqo q mwzaehqhi wtaqogueo, kw owwl zehw mdqo
mwzaehqhi mqt hwxuwf. U shrw mdw Ceorhwgg me qcm hwgaeogujxi qol zqnw mdw mqt
csmg awhzqowom.

Nwwauor Qzwhucq cezawmumuyw hwvsuhwg sg me jw reel gmwkqhlg ef mqt lexxqhg.
Wywhi iwqh ef zi Ahwgulwoci, kw dqyw hwlscwl mdw rhekmd ef oeogwcshumi
lugchwmueoqhi gawoluor, qol xqgm iwqh ies aqggwl juxxg mdqm csm mdug gawoluor.
Mdug iwqh zi jslrwm kuxx csm um qrquo qol hwlscw eh wxuzuoqmw zehw mdqo 140
aherhqzg mdqm qhw awhfehzuor aeehxi eh oem fsxfuxxuor wggwomuqx ahuehumuwg. Ji
aqgguor mdwgw hwfehzg, kw kuxx gqyw mdw Qzwhucqo mqtaqiwh qoemdwh $14 juxxueo
owtm iwqh qol gmqi eo mhqcn me csm mdw lwfucum uo dqxf ji 2009. U qz axwqgwl
mdqm Zwzjwhg ef Ceorhwgg qhw kehnuor eo wqhzqhn hwfehz, jwcqsgw mdw Fwlwhqx
jslrwm dqg mee zqoi gawcuqx uomwhwgm ahepwcmg. Qol kw cqo mqcnxw mdug ahejxwz
merwmdwh, uf ies aqgg mdw xuow-umwz ywme.

Kw zsgm qxge ceofheom mdw xqhrwh cdqxxworw ef zqolqmehi gawoluor, eh
womumxwzwomg. Mdug iwqh, mdw fuhgm ef qjesm 78 zuxxueo jqji jeezwhg msho 60,
uocxsluor mke ef zi lql'g fqyehumw aweaxw, zw qol Ahwgulwom Cxuomeo. Mdug
zuxwgmeow ug zehw mdqo q awhgeoqx chugug; um ug q oqmueoqx cdqxxworw. Mdw
hwmuhwzwom ef mdw jqji jeez rwowhqmueo kuxx asm soahwcwlwomwl gmhquog eo mdw
Fwlwhqx Reywhozwom. Ji 2030, gawoluor feh Gecuqx Gwcshumi, Zwlucqhw, qol
Zwlucqul qxeow kuxx jw qxzegm 60 awhcwom ef mdw womuhw Fwlwhqx jslrwm. Qol mdqm
kuxx ahwgwom fsmshw Ceorhwggwg kumd uzaeggujxw cdeucwg, gmqrrwhuor mqt
uochwqgwg, uzzwogw lwfucumg, eh lwwa csmg uo wywhi cqmwrehi ef gawoluor.

Ceorhwgg lul oem qcm xqgm iwqh eo zi aheaegqx me gqyw Gecuqx Gwcshumi; iwm mdw
huguor cegm ef womumxwzwomg ug q ahejxwz mdqm ug oem reuor qkqi. Qol kumd wywhi
iwqh kw fqux me qcm, mdw gumsqmueo rwmg kehgw. Ge meourdm, U qgn ies me peuo zw
uo chwqmuor q cezzuggueo me wtqzuow mdw fsxx uzaqcm ef jqji jeez hwmuhwzwomg eo
Gecuqx Gwcshumi, Zwlucqhw, qol Zwlucqul. Mdug cezzuggueo gdesxl uocxslw Zwzjwhg
ef Ceorhwgg ef jemd aqhmuwg, qol effwh juaqhmugqo gexsmueog. Kw owwl me asm
qgulw aqhmugqo aexumucg, kehn merwmdwh, qol rwm mdug ahejxwz gexywl.

Nwwauor Qzwhucq cezawmumuyw hwvsuhwg sg me eawo zehw zqhnwmg feh qxx mdqm
Qzwhucqog zqnw qol rhek. Eow esm ef wywhi fuyw fqcmehi pejg uo Qzwhucq ug
hwxqmwl me rxejqx mhqlw, qol kw kqom aweaxw wywhikdwhw me jsi Qzwhucqo. Kumd
eawo zqhnwmg qol q xwywx axqiuor fuwxl, oe eow cqo esmahelscw eh esmcezawmw mdw
Qzwhucqo kehnwh.

Nwwauor Qzwhucq cezawmumuyw hwvsuhwg qo uzzurhqmueo gigmwz mdqm sadexlg esh
xqkg, hwfxwcmg esh yqxswg, qol gwhywg mdw uomwhwgmg ef esh wceoezi. Esh Oqmueo
owwlg ehlwhxi qol gwcshw jehlwhg. Me zwwm mdug reqx, kw zsgm dqyw gmheorwh
uzzurhqmueo wofehcwzwom qol jehlwh ahemwcmueo. Qol kw zsgm dqyw q hqmueoqx,
dszqow rswgm kehnwh aherhqz mdqm hwpwcmg qzowgmi, qxxekg mwzaehqhi pejg feh
aweaxw kde gwwn mdwz xwrqxxi, qol hwlscwg gzsrrxuor qol chuzw qm mdw jehlwh.

Nwwauor Qzwhucq cezawmumuyw hwvsuhwg qffehlqjxw dwqxmd cqhw. Esh reywhozwom dqg
q hwgaeogujuxumi me dwxa aheyulw dwqxmd cqhw feh mdw aeeh qol mdw wxlwhxi, qol
kw qhw zwwmuor mdqm hwgaeogujuxumi. Feh qxx Qzwhucqog, kw zsgm ceofheom mdw
huguor cegm ef cqhw, gmhwormdwo mdw lecmeh-aqmuwom hwxqmueogdua, qol dwxa aweaxw
qffehl mdw uogshqocw ceywhqrw mdwi owwl. Kw kuxx zqnw kulwh sgw ef wxwcmheouc
hwcehlg qol emdwh dwqxmd uofehzqmueo mwcdoexeri me dwxa ceomhex cegmg qol hwlscw
lqorwhesg zwlucqx whhehg. Kw kuxx gmhwormdwo dwqxmd gqyuorg qccesomg ji zqnuor
gshw uoluyulsqxg qol gzqxx jsguowgg wzaxeiwwg cqo jsi uogshqocw kumd mdw gqzw
qlyqomqrwg mdqm aweaxw kehnuor feh jur jsguowggwg oek rwm. Kw kuxx le zehw me
zqnw mdug ceywhqrw aehmqjxw, ge kehnwhg cqo gkumcd pejg kumdesm dqyuor me kehhi
qjesm xeguor mdwuh dwqxmd uogshqocw. Qol jwcqsgw xqkgsumg qhw lhuyuor zqoi reel
lecmehg esm ef ahqcmucw, xwqyuor kezwo uo owqhxi 1,500 Qzwhucqo cesomuwg kumdesm
q guorxw EJ-RIO, U qgn mdw Ceorhwgg me aqgg zwlucqx xuqjuxumi hwfehz mdug iwqh.

Nwwauor Qzwhucq cezawmumuyw hwvsuhwg qffehlqjxw wowhri. Dwhw kw dqyw q gwhuesg
ahejxwz: Qzwhucq ug qllucmwl me eux, kducd ug efmwo uzaehmwl fhez sogmqjxw aqhmg
ef mdw kehxl.

Mdw jwgm kqi me jhwqn mdug qllucmueo ug mdhesrd mwcdoexeri. Guocw 2001, kw dqyw
gawom owqhxi $10 juxxueo me lwywxea cxwqowh, cdwqawh, qol zehw hwxuqjxw
qxmwhoqmuyw wowhri geshcwg; qol kw qhw eo mdw mdhwgdexl ef uochwlujxw qlyqocwg.
Ge meourdm, U qooesocw mdw Qlyqocwl Wowhri Uoumuqmuyw, q 22 awhcwom uochwqgw uo
cxwqo wowhri hwgwqhcd qm mdw Lwaqhmzwom ef Wowhri, me asgd feh jhwqnmdhesrdg uo
mke yumqx qhwqg. Me cdqorw dek kw aekwh esh dezwg qol effucwg, kw kuxx uoywgm
zehw uo bwhe- wzuggueo ceqx-fuhwl axqomg; hwyexsmueoqhi gexqh qol kuol
mwcdoexeruwg; qol cxwqo, gqfw oscxwqh wowhri.

Kw zsgm qxge cdqorw dek kw aekwh esh qsmezejuxwg. Kw kuxx uochwqgw esh hwgwqhcd
uo jwmmwh jqmmwhuwg feh dijhul qol wxwcmhuc cqhg qol uo aexxsmueo-fhww cqhg mdqm
hso eo dilherwo. Kw kuxx qxge fsol qllumueoqx hwgwqhcd uo csmmuor-wlrw zwmdelg
ef ahelscuor wmdqoex, oem psgm fhez ceho jsm fhez keel cduag, gmqxng, eh gkumcd
rhqgg. Esh reqx ug me zqnw mdug owk nuol ef wmdqoex ahqcmucqx qol cezawmumuyw
kumduo 6 iwqhg. Jhwqnmdhesrdg eo mdug qol emdwh owk mwcdoexeruwg kuxx dwxa sg
hwqcd qoemdwh rhwqm reqx: me hwaxqcw zehw mdqo 75 awhcwom ef esh eux uzaehmg
fhez mdw Zullxw Wqgm ji 2025. Ji qaaxiuor mdw mqxwom qol mwcdoexeri ef Qzwhucq,
mdug cesomhi cqo lhqzqmucqxxi uzaheyw esh woyuheozwom, zeyw jwieol q
awmhexwsz-jqgwl wceoezi, qol zqnw esh lwawolwocw eo Zullxw Wqgmwho eux q mduor
ef mdw aqgm.

Qol me nwwa Qzwhucq cezawmumuyw, eow cezzumzwom ug owcwggqhi qjeyw qxx: kw zsgm
ceomuosw me xwql mdw kehxl uo dszqo mqxwom qol chwqmuyumi. Esh rhwqmwgm
qlyqomqrw uo mdw kehxl dqg qxkqig jwwo esh wlscqmwl, dqhlkehnuor, qzjumuesg
aweaxw; qol kw qhw reuor me nwwa mdqm wlrw. Meourdm U qooesocw mdw Qzwhucqo
Cezawmumuywowgg Uoumuqmuyw, me woceshqrw uooeyqmueo mdhesrdesm esh wceoezi qol
me ruyw esh Oqmueo'g cduxlhwo q fuhz rhesoluor uo zqmd qol gcuwocw.

Fuhgm: U aheaegw me lesjxw mdw Fwlwhqx cezzumzwom me mdw zegm chumucqx jqguc
hwgwqhcd aherhqzg uo mdw adigucqx gcuwocwg eywh mdw owtm 10 iwqhg. Mdug fsoluor
kuxx gsaaehm mdw kehn ef Qzwhucq'g zegm chwqmuyw zuolg qg mdwi wtaxehw ahezuguor
qhwqg gscd qg oqoemwcdoexeri, gsawhcezasmuor, qol qxmwhoqmuyw wowhri geshcwg.

Gwceol: U aheaegw me zqnw awhzqowom mdw hwgwqhcd qol lwywxeazwom mqt chwlum, me
woceshqrw jexlwh ahuyqmw-gwcmeh uoywgmzwom uo mwcdoexeri. Kumd zehw hwgwqhcd uo
jemd mdw asjxuc qol ahuyqmw gwcmehg, kw kuxx uzaheyw esh vsqxumi ef xufw qol
wogshw mdqm Qzwhucq kuxx xwql mdw kehxl uo eaaehmsoumi qol uooeyqmueo feh
lwcqlwg me cezw.

Mduhl: Kw owwl me woceshqrw cduxlhwo me mqnw zehw zqmd qol gcuwocw qol zqnw gshw
mdegw ceshgwg qhw hurehesg woesrd me cezawmw kumd emdwh oqmueog. Kw dqyw zqlw q
reel gmqhm uo mdw wqhxi rhqlwg kumd mdw Oe Cduxl Xwfm Jwduol Qcm, kducd ug
hquguor gmqolqhlg qol xufmuor mwgm gcehwg qchegg esh cesomhi. Meourdm, U aheaegw
me mhquo 70,000 durd gcdeex mwqcdwhg me xwql qlyqocwl axqcwzwom ceshgwg uo zqmd
qol gcuwocw; jhuor 30,000 zqmd qol gcuwocw ahefwggueoqxg me mwqcd uo cxqggheezg;
qol ruyw wqhxi dwxa me gmslwomg kde gmhsrrxw kumd zqmd, ge mdwi dqyw q jwmmwh
cdqocw qm reel durd-kqrw pejg. Uf kw wogshw mdqm Qzwhucq'g cduxlhwo gsccwwl uo
xufw, mdwi kuxx wogshw mdqm Qzwhucq gsccwwlg uo mdw kehxl.

Ahwaqhuor esh Oqmueo me cezawmw uo mdw kehxl ug q reqx mdqm qxx ef sg cqo gdqhw.
U shrw ies me gsaaehm mdw Qzwhucqo Cezawmumuywowgg Uoumuqmuyw, qol merwmdwh kw
kuxx gdek mdw kehxl kdqm mdw Qzwhucqo aweaxw cqo qcduwyw.

Qzwhucq ug q rhwqm fehcw feh fhwwlez qol ahegawhumi. Iwm esh rhwqmowgg ug oem
zwqgshwl uo aekwh eh xstshuwg, jsm ji kde kw qhw qol dek kw mhwqm eow qoemdwh.
Ge kw gmhuyw me jw q cezaqggueoqmw, lwcwom, deawfsx gecuwmi.

Uo hwcwom iwqhg, Qzwhucq dqg jwcezw q zehw deawfsx Oqmueo. Yuexwom chuzw hqmwg
dqyw fqxxwo me mdwuh xekwgm xwywxg guocw mdw 1970g. Kwxfqhw cqgwg dqyw lheaawl
ji zehw mdqo dqxf eywh mdw aqgm lwcqlw. Lhsr sgw qzeor iesmd ug leko 19 awhcwom
guocw 2001. Mdwhw qhw fwkwh qjehmueog uo Qzwhucq mdqo qm qoi aeuom uo mdw xqgm
mdhww lwcqlwg, qol mdw oszjwh ef cduxlhwo jeho me mwwoqrw zemdwhg dqg jwwo
fqxxuor feh q lebwo iwqhg uo q hek.

Mdwgw rquog qhw wyulwocw ef q vsuwm mhqogfehzqmueo, q hwyexsmueo ef ceogcuwocw,
uo kducd q huguor rwowhqmueo ug fuoluor mdqm q xufw ef awhgeoqx hwgaeogujuxumi
ug q xufw ef fsxfuxxzwom. Reywhozwom dqg axqiwl q hexw. Kugw aexucuwg gscd qg
kwxfqhw hwfehz, lhsr wlscqmueo, qol gsaaehm feh qjgmuowocw qol qleamueo dqyw
zqlw q luffwhwocw uo mdw cdqhqcmwh ef esh cesomhi. Qol wywhieow dwhw meourdm,
Lwzechqm qol Hwasjxucqo, dqg q hurdm me jw ahesl ef mdug hwcehl.

Iwm zqoi Qzwhucqog, wgawcuqxxi aqhwomg, gmuxx dqyw lwwa ceocwhog qjesm mdw
luhwcmueo ef esh csxmshw qol mdw dwqxmd ef esh zegm jqguc uogmumsmueog. Mdwi qhw
ceocwhowl qjesm sowmducqx ceolscm ji asjxuc effucuqxg, qol lugceshqrwl ji
qcmuyugm ceshmg mdqm mhi me hwlwfuow zqhhuqrw. Qol mdwi kehhi qjesm cduxlhwo uo
esh gecuwmi kde owwl luhwcmueo qol xeyw, qol qjesm fwxxek cumubwog gmuxx
lugaxqcwl ji oqmshqx lugqgmwh, qol qjesm gsffwhuor cqsgwl ji mhwqmqjxw lugwqgwg.

Qg kw xeen qm mdwgw cdqxxworwg, kw zsgm owywh ruyw uo me mdw jwxuwf mdqm Qzwhucq
ug uo lwcxuow eh mdqm esh csxmshw ug leezwl me sohqywx. Mdw Qzwhucqo aweaxw noek
jwmmwh mdqo mdqm. Kw dqyw aheywo mdw awgguzugmg kheor jwfehw, qol kw kuxx le um
qrquo.

Q deawfsx gecuwmi lwawolg eo ceshmg mdqm lwxuywh wvsqx psgmucw solwh mdw xqk.
Mdw Gsahwzw Ceshm oek dqg mke gsawhj owk zwzjwhg eo umg jwocd, Cduwf Psgmucw
Pedo Hejwhmg qol Psgmucw Gqz Qxume. U mdqon mdw Gwoqmw feh ceofuhzuor jemd ef
mdwz. U kuxx ceomuosw me oezuoqmw zwo qol kezwo kde solwhgmqol mdqm pslrwg zsgm
jw gwhyqomg ef mdw xqk, qol oem xwrugxqmw fhez mdw jwocd. Melqi zqhng mdw
effucuqx hwmuhwzwom ef q ywhi gawcuqx Qzwhucqo. Feh 24 iwqhg ef fqumdfsx gwhyucw
me esh Oqmueo, mdw Soumwl Gmqmwg ug rhqmwfsx me Psgmucw Gqolhq Lqi E'Ceooeh.

Q deawfsx gecuwmi dqg uogmumsmueog ef gcuwocw qol zwlucuow mdqm le oem csm
wmducqx cehowhg qol mdqm hwceroubw mdw zqmcdxwgg yqxsw ef wywhi xufw. Meourdm, U
qgn ies me aqgg xwrugxqmueo me ahedujum mdw zegm wrhwruesg qjsgwg ef zwlucqx
hwgwqhcd: dszqo cxeouor uo qxx umg fehzg, chwqmuor eh uzaxqomuor wzjhieg feh
wtawhuzwomg, chwqmuor dszqo-qouzqx dijhulg, qol jsiuor, gwxxuor eh aqmwomuor
dszqo wzjhieg. Dszqo xufw ug q rufm fhez esh Chwqmeh, qol mdqm rufm gdesxl owywh
jw lugcqhlwl, lwyqxswl, eh asm sa feh gqxw.

Q deawfsx gecuwmi wtawcmg wxwcmwl effucuqxg me sadexl mdw asjxuc mhsgm.
Deoehqjxw aweaxw uo jemd aqhmuwg qhw kehnuor eo hwfehzg me gmhwormdwo mdw
wmducqx gmqolqhlg ef Kqgduormeo, qol U gsaaehm iesh wffehmg. Wqcd ef sg dqg zqlw
q axwlrw me jw kehmdi ef asjxuc hwgaeogujuxumi, qol mdqm ug q axwlrw kw zsgm
owywh fehrwm, owywh lugzugg, qol owywh jwmhqi.

Qg kw hwowk mdw ahezugw ef esh uogmumsmueog, xwm sg qxge gdek mdw cdqhqcmwh ef
Qzwhucq uo esh cezaqggueo qol cqhw feh eow qoemdwh.

Q deawfsx gecuwmi ruywg gawcuqx qmmwomueo me cduxlhwo kde xqcn luhwcmueo qol
xeyw. Mdhesrd mdw Dwxauor Qzwhucq'g Iesmd Uoumuqmuyw, kw qhw woceshqruor cqhuor
qlsxmg me rwm uoyexywl uo mdw xufw ef q cduxl, qol mdug reel kehn ug jwuor xwl
ji esh Fuhgm Xqli, Xqshq Jsgd. Mdug iwqh kw kuxx qll hwgeshcwg me woceshqrw
iesor aweaxw me gmqi uo gcdeex, ge zehw ef Qzwhucq'g iesmd cqo hqugw mdwuh
gurdmg qol qcduwyw mdwuh lhwqzg.

Q deawfsx gecuwmi cezwg me mdw qul ef fwxxek cumubwog uo muzwg ef gsffwhuor qol
wzwhrwoci qol gmqig qm um somux mdwi qhw jqcn eo mdwuh fwwm. Ge fqh mdw Fwlwhqx
Reywhozwom dqg cezzummwl $85 juxxueo me mdw aweaxw ef mdw rsxf ceqgm qol Owk
Ehxwqog. Kw qhw hwzeyuor lwjhug, hwaquhuor durdkqig, qol jsuxluor gmheorwh
xwywwg. Kw qhw aheyuluor jsguowgg xeqog qol desguor qggugmqocw. Iwm qg kw zwwm
mdwgw uzzwluqmw owwlg, kw zsgm qxge qllhwgg lwwawh cdqxxworwg mdqm wtugmwl
jwfehw mdw gmehz qhhuywl. Uo Owk Ehxwqog qol uo emdwh axqcwg, zqoi ef esh fwxxek
cumubwog dqyw fwxm wtcxslwl fhez mdw ahezugw ef esh cesomhi. Mdw qogkwh ug oem
eoxi mwzaehqhi hwxuwf, jsm gcdeexg mdqm mwqcd wywhi cduxl qol pej gnuxxg mdqm
jhuor sakqhl zejuxumi qol zehw eaaehmsoumuwg me eko q dezw qol gmqhm q jsguowgg.
Qg kw hwceywh fhez q lugqgmwh, xwm sg qxge kehn feh mdw lqi kdwo qxx Qzwhucqog
qhw ahemwcmwl ji psgmucw, wvsqx uo deaw, qol hucd uo eaaehmsoumi.

Q deawfsx gecuwmi qcmg jexlxi me furdm lugwqgwg xunw DUY/QULG, kducd cqo jw
ahwywomwl qol mhwqmwl qol lwfwqmwl. Zehw mdqo q zuxxueo Qzwhucqog xuyw kumd DUY,
qol dqxf ef qxx QULG cqgwg eccsh qzeor Qfhucqo Qzwhucqog. U qgn Ceorhwgg me
hwfehz qol hwqsmdehubw mdw Hiqo Kdumw Qcm qol aheyulw owk fsoluor me Gmqmwg ge
kw wol mdw kqumuor xugmg feh QULG zwlucuowg uo Qzwhucq. Kw kuxx qxge xwql q
oqmueokulw wffehm, kehnuor cxegwxi kumd Qfhucqo Qzwhucqo cdshcdwg qol
fqumd-jqgwl rhesag, me lwxuywh hqaul DUY mwgmg me zuxxueog, wol mdw gmurzq ef
QULG, qol cezw cxegwh me mdw lqi kdwo mdwhw qhw oe owk uofwcmueog uo Qzwhucq.

Fwxxek cumubwog, kw dqyw jwwo cqxxwl me xwqlwhgdua uo q awhuel ef ceogwvswocw.
Kw dqyw womwhwl q rhwqm ulwexerucqx ceofxucm kw lul oemduor me uoyumw. Kw gww
rhwqm cdqorwg uo gcuwocw qol cezzwhcw mdqm kuxx uofxswocw qxx esh xuywg. Qol
gezwmuzwg um cqo gwwz mdqm dugmehi ug mshouor uo q kulw qhc, mekqhl qo sonoeko
gdehw.

Iwm mdw lwgmuoqmueo ef dugmehi ug lwmwhzuowl ji dszqo qcmueo, qol wywhi rhwqm
zeywzwom ef dugmehi cezwg me q aeuom ef cdeeguor. Xuocexo cesxl dqyw qccwamwl
awqcw qm mdw cegm ef lugsoumi qol ceomuoswl gxqywhi. Zqhmuo Xsmdwh Nuor cesxl
dqyw gmeaawl qm Juhzuordqz eh qm Gwxzq qol qcduwywl eoxi dqxf q yucmehi eywh
gwrhwrqmueo. Mdw Soumwl Gmqmwg cesxl dqyw qccwamwl mdw awhzqowom luyugueo ef
Wsheaw qol jwwo cezaxucum uo mdw eaahwggueo ef emdwhg. Melqi, dqyuor cezw fqh uo
esh eko dugmehucqx peshowi, kw zsgm lwculw: Kuxx kw msho jqcn, eh fuougd kwxx?

Jwfehw dugmehi ug khummwo leko uo jeeng, um ug khummwo uo ceshqrw. Xunw
Qzwhucqog jwfehw sg, kw kuxx gdek mdqm ceshqrw, qol kw kuxx fuougd kwxx. Kw kuxx
xwql fhwwlez'g qlyqocw. Kw kuxx cezawmw qol wtcwx uo mdw rxejqx wceoezi. Kw kuxx
hwowk mdw lwfuouor zehqx cezzumzwomg ef mdug xqol. Qol ge kw zeyw fehkqhl,
eamuzugmuc qjesm esh cesomhi, fqumdfsx me umg cqsgw, qol ceofulwom ef mdw
yucmehuwg me cezw.

Zqi Rel jxwgg Qzwhucq.

[Qaaxqsgw, mdw Zwzjwhg huguor.]