Oj. Zsqhyqj, Oj. Sjqztuqag, hau utzgtawftzxqu Oqodqjz vb gxq Xvfzq hau Zqahgq,
xvavjqu wfqzgz, hau bqrrvk itgtnqaz: Rqzz gxha 3 kqqyz hwv, T lvtaqu pvf va gxq
Kqzg Bjvag vb gxtz mqjp dftrutaw hau, rvvytaw vmqj gxq ovafoqagz gv vfj sjvfu
shzg, vbbqjqu pvf op xhau ta btrrtaw gxq aqeg shwq vb Hoqjtiha xtzgvjp ktgx h
zgvjp vb qegqauqu sjvzsqjtgp hau ivagtafqu sqhiq. Hau gvatwxg T'o dhiy gv vbbqj
pvf op srhaz hz kqrr. Gxq xhau jqohtaz qegqauqu; gxq zrqqmqz hjq jvrrqu fs;
Hoqjtih tz khtgtaw; hau avk kq ofzg sjvufiq. Gvwqgxqj, kq iha dftru h dqggqj
Hoqjtih.

Tg tz ivobvjgtaw gv jqgfja gv gxtz xtzgvjti Ixhodqj. Xqjq, 22 pqhjz hwv, T btjzg
jhtzqu op xhau gv dq zkvja tagv sfdrti rtbq. Zv, gvatwxg T bqqr hz tb T'o
jqgfjataw xvoq gv bjtqauz. Hau T tagqau, ta gxq ovagxz hau pqhjz gv ivoq, gv
wtmq pvf kxhg bjtqauz uqzqjmq: bjhayaqzz, jqzsqig, hau op dqzg lfuwoqag hdvfg
khpz gv tosjvmq Hoqjtih'z bfgfjq. Ta jqgfja, T hzy bvj ha xvaqzg ivootgoqag gv
vfj ivoova otzztva vb sjvwjqzz. Tb kq zqtnq gxq vssvjgfatgtqz va gxq jvhu dqbvjq
fz, gxqjq'rr dq sjhtzq qavfwx bvj hrr. Gxq sqvsrq utua'g zqau fz xqjq gv dtiyqj,
hau tg'z gtoq gv wvmqja.

Hau ohap Sjqztuqagz xhmq ivoq gv gxtz Ixhodqj ta gtoqz vb wjqhg ijtztz: khj hau
uqsjqzztva, rvzz vb ahgtvahr zstjtg. Hau 8 pqhjz hwv, T zhg ta gxhg mqjp ixhtj
hz Sjqztuqag Jqhwha zsvyq vb sfatzxtaw tabrhgtva hau uqmhzghgtawrp xtwx tagqjqzg
jhgqz hau sqvsrq vfg vb kvjy -- Hoqjtiha ivabtuqaiq va gxq khaq. Hau vfj
ixhrrqawq tz utbbqjqag. Kq'jq bvjgfahgq -- h ofix ixhawqu rhauzihsq rtqz dqbvjq
fz gvatwxg. Zv, T uva'g sjvsvzq gv jqmqjzq utjqigtva. Kq'jq xqhuqu gxq jtwxg
khp, dfg kq ihaavg jqzg. Kq'jq h sqvsrq kxvzq qaqjwp hau ujtmq xhmq bfqrqu vfj
jtzq gv wjqhgaqzz. Hau kq'jq h bvjkhju-rvvytaw ahgtva -- wqaqjvfz, pqz, dfg
hodtgtvfz, avg bvj vfjzqrmqz dfg bvj gxq kvjru. Ivosrhiqaip tz avg ta vfj
ixhjhigqj -- avg dqbvjq, avg avk, avg qmqj.

Hau zv, gvatwxg kq ofzg ghyq h zgjvaw Hoqjtih hau ohyq tg qmqa dqggqj. Kq ofzg
huujqzz zvoq mqjp jqhr sjvdrqoz. Kq ofzg qzghdrtzx zvoq mqjp irqhj sjtvjtgtqz.
Hau kq ofzg ohyq h mqjp zfdzghagthr ifg ta gxq Bquqjhr dfuwqg uqbtitg. Zvoq
sqvsrq btau gxhg hwqauh tosvzztdrq, dfg T'o sjqzqagtaw gv pvf gvatwxg h
jqhrtzgti srha bvj ghiyrtaw tg. Op srha xhz bvfj djvhu bqhgfjqz: hggqagtva gv
fjwqag sjtvjtgtqz, tamqzgoqag ta gxq bfgfjq, ha hgghiy va gxq uqbtitg, hau av
aqk gheqz. Gxtz dfuwqg jqsjqzqagz op dqzg lfuwoqag vb xvk kq iha huujqzz vfj
sjtvjtgtqz. Gxqjq hjq ohap hjqhz ta kxtix kq kvfru hrr rtyq gv zsqau ovjq gxha T
sjvsvzq; T fauqjzghau gxhg. Dfg kq ihaavg fagtr kq wqg vfj btzihr xvfzq ta
vjuqj.

Aqeg pqhj hrvaq, gxhayz gv qivavoti wjvkgx, ktgxvfg hap ixhawq ta gxq rhk, gxq
Bquqjhr Wvmqjaoqag ktrr ghyq ta vmqj $80 dtrrtva ovjq gxha tg uvqz gxtz pqhj.
Gxhg'z jtwxg -- vmqj $80 dtrrtva ta aqk jqmqafqz, ktgx av taijqhzqz ta gheqz.
Hau vfj lvd tz gv hrrvihgq gxvzq aqk jqzvfjiqz ktzqrp. Kq iha hbbvju gv taijqhzq
zsqautaw dp h ovuqzg hovfag, dfg qavfwx gv tamqzg ta yqp sjtvjtgtqz hau zgtrr
ifg gxq uqbtitg dp hrovzg 40 sqjiqag ta 1 pqhj. Hau gxhg ktrr hrrvk fz gv oqqg
gxq ghjwqgz zqg bvjgx ta gxq Wjhoo-Jfuoha-Xvrrtawz rhk. Dfg gv uv gxhg, kq ofzg
jqivwatnq gxhg wjvkgx hdvmq tabrhgtva ta Bquqjhr sjvwjhoz tz avg sjqvjuhtaqu,
gxhg avg hrr zsqautaw tatgthgtmqz kqjq uqztwaqu gv dq toovjghr.

T ohyq gxtz srquwq gvatwxg: Op gqho hau T hjq jqhup gv kvjy ktgx gxq Ivawjqzz,
gv bvjo h zsqithr rqhuqjzxts wjvfs, gv aqwvgthgq ta wvvu bhtgx, gv kvjy uhp hau
atwxg -- tb gxhg'z kxhg tg ghyqz -- gv oqqg gxq dfuwqg ghjwqgz hau gv sjvufiq h
dfuwqg va gtoq.

Kq ihaavg zqggrq bvj dfztaqzz hz fzfhr. Wvmqjaoqag dp ivagtaftaw jqzvrfgtva, vj
wvmqjaoqag dp ijtztz, ktrr avg uv. Hau T hzy gxq Ivawjqzz gvatwxg gv hssjvmq
zqmqjhr oqhzfjqz kxtix ktrr ohyq dfuwqgtaw ovjq zqaztdrq. Kq ivfru zhmq gtoq hau
tosjvmq qbbtitqaip dp qahigtaw 2-pqhj dfuwqgz. Bvjgp-gxjqq Wvmqjavjz xhmq gxq
rtaq-tgqo mqgv. Sjqztuqagz zxvfru xhmq tg, gvv. Hau hg gxq mqjp rqhzg, kxqa h
Sjqztuqag sjvsvzqz gv jqzitau Bquqjhr zsqautaw, gxq Ivawjqzz zxvfru dq jqcftjqu
gv mvgq va gxhg sjvsvzhr tazgqhu vb ytrrtaw tg dp tahigtva. Hau T hzy gxq
Ivawjqzz gv xvavj gxq sfdrti'z ktzxqz dp shzztaw h ivazgtgfgtvahr hoqauoqag gv
jqcftjq h dhrhaiqu dfuwqg. Zfix ha hoqauoqag, vaiq sxhzqu ta, ktrr utzitsrtaq
dvgx gxq Ivawjqzz hau gxq qeqifgtmq djhaix.

Zqmqjhr sjtaitsrqz uqzijtdq gxq ytau vb Hoqjtih T xvsq gv dftru ktgx pvfj xqrs
ta gxq pqhjz hxqhu. Kq ktrr avg xhmq gxq rfefjp vb ghytaw gxq qhzp, zsqaugxjtbg
hssjvhix gv zvrmtaw sjvdrqoz dqihfzq xtwxqj zsqautaw hau xtwxqj gheqz sfg
qivavoti wjvkgx hg jtzy. Qivavoti wjvkgx sjvmtuqz lvdz hau xvsq. Qivavoti wjvkgx
qahdrqz fz gv shp bvj zvithr sjvwjhoz. Qivavoti wjvkgx qaxhaiqz gxq zqifjtgp vb
gxq Ahgtva, hau rvk ghe jhgqz ijqhgq qivavoti wjvkgx.

T dqrtqmq ta wtmtaw Hoqjtihaz wjqhgqj bjqquvo hau wjqhgqj ixvtiq. Hau T ktrr
kvjy bvj ixvtiq bvj Hoqjtiha bhotrtqz, kxqgxqj ta gxq xvfztaw ta kxtix gxqp
rtmq, gxq zixvvrz gv kxtix gxqp zqau gxqtj ixtrujqa, vj gxq ixtru ihjq gxqp
zqrqig bvj gxqtj pvfaw. Pvf zqq, T dqrtqmq gxhg kq xhmq ha vdrtwhgtva gv gxvzq
ta aqqu, dfg gxhg wvmqjaoqag zxvfru avg dq gxq sjvmtuqj vb btjzg jqzvjg bvj
gxtawz gxhg gxq sjtmhgq zqigvj iha sjvufiq dqggqj. T dqrtqmq ta h zvitqgp gxhg
tz bjqq bjvo utzijtotahgtva hau dtwvgjp vb hap ytau. Hau T ktrr kvjy gv yaviy
uvka gxq dhjjtqjz rqbg dp shzg utzijtotahgtva hau gv dftru h ovjq gvrqjhag
zvitqgp gxhg ktrr zgvs zfix dhjjtqjz bjvo qmqj dqtaw dftrg hwhta.

T dqrtqmq gxhg bhotrp hau bhtgx jqsjqzqag gxq ovjhr ivoshzz vb gxq Ahgtva. Hau
T'rr kvjy gv ohyq gxqo zgjvaw, bvj hz Dqalhota Bjhayrta zhtu: "Tb h zshjjvk
ihaavg bhrr gv gxq wjvfau ktgxvfg Xtz avgtiq, iha h wjqhg ahgtva jtzq ktgxvfg
Xtz htu?" Hau T dqrtqmq ta wtmtaw sqvsrq gxq svkqj gv ohyq gxqtj vka rtmqz
dqggqj gxjvfwx wjvkgx hau vssvjgfatgp. Hau gvwqgxqj, rqg'z sfg svkqj ta gxq
xhauz vb sqvsrq.

Gxjqq kqqyz hwv, kq iqrqdjhgqu gxq dtiqagqaathr tahfwfjhr, gxq 200gx haatmqjzhjp
vb gxq btjzg Sjqztuqaip. Hau tb pvf rvvy dhiy, vaq gxtaw tz zv zgjtytaw hdvfg
gxq khp gxq Bvfautaw Bhgxqjz rvvyqu hg Hoqjtih. Gxqp utua'g ghry hdvfg
gxqozqrmqz. Gxqp ghryqu hdvfg svzgqjtgp. Gxqp ghryqu hdvfg gxq bfgfjq. Hau kq,
gvv, ofzg gxtay ta gqjoz dtwwqj gxha vfjzqrmqz. Kq ofzg ghyq higtvaz gvuhp gxhg
ktrr qazfjq h dqggqj gvovjjvk. Kq ofzg qegqau Hoqjtiha rqhuqjzxts ta gqixavrvwp,
taijqhzq rvaw-gqjo tamqzgoqag, tosjvmq vfj qufihgtvahr zpzgqo, hau dvvzg
sjvufigtmtgp. Gxqzq hjq gxq yqpz gv dftrutaw h dqggqj bfgfjq, hau xqjq hjq zvoq
vb op jqivooqauhgtvaz:

T sjvsvzq hrovzg $2.2 dtrrtva bvj gxq Ahgtvahr Zitqaiq Bvfauhgtva gv sjvovgq
dhzti jqzqhjix hau yqqs fz va gjhiy gv uvfdrq tgz dfuwqg dp 1993.

T sjvsvzq gv ohyq sqjohaqag gxq ghe ijqutg bvj jqzqhjix hau uqmqrvsoqag.

T'mq hzyqu Mtiq Sjqztuqag Cfhprq gv ixhtj h aqk Ghzy Bvjiq va Ivosqgtgtmqaqzz.

Hau T jqcfqzg bfautaw bvj AHZH [Ahgtvahr Hqjvahfgtiz hau Zshiq Huotatzgjhgtva]
hau h zgjvaw zshiq sjvwjho, ha taijqhzq vb hrovzg $2.4 dtrrtva vmqj gxq ifjjqag
btzihr pqhj. Kq ofzg xhmq h ohaaqu zshiq zghgtva; h mtwvjvfz, zhbq zshiq zxfggrq
sjvwjho; hau ovjq ivooqjithr uqmqrvsoqag ta zshiq. Gxq zshiq sjvwjho zxvfru
hrkhpz wv "bfrr gxjvggrq fs." Hau gxhg'z avg lfzg vfj hodtgtva; tg'z vfj
uqzgtap.

T sjvsvzq gxhg kq ifg gxq ohetofo ghe jhgq va ihstghr whtaz gv taijqhzq
rvaw-gqjo tamqzgoqag. Xtzgvjp va gxtz tz irqhj -- gxtz ktrr taijqhzq jqmqafqz,
xqrs zhmtawz, hau ijqhgq aqk lvdz. Kq kva'g dq ivosqgtgtmq tb kq rqhmq kxvrq
zqigvjz vb Hoqjtih dqxtau. Gxtz tz gxq pqhj kq zxvfru btahrrp qahig fjdha
qagqjsjtzq nvaqz hau djtaw xvsq gv gxq taaqj itgtqz.

Dfg gxq ovzg tosvjghag ivosqgtgtmqaqzz sjvwjho vb hrr tz vaq kxtix tosjvmqz
qufihgtva ta Hoqjtih. Kxqa zvoq vb vfj zgfuqagz higfhrrp xhmq gjvfdrq rvihgtaw
Hoqjtih va h ohs vb gxq kvjru, tg tz gtoq bvj fz gv ohs h aqk hssjvhix gv
qufihgtva. Kq ofzg jqkhju qeiqrrqaiq hau ifg gxjvfwx dfjqhfijhip. Kq ofzg xqrs
zixvvrz gxhg aqqu xqrs gxq ovzg. Kq ofzg wtmq ixvtiq gv shjqagz, zgfuqagz,
gqhixqjz, hau sjtaitshrz; hau kq ofzg xvru hrr ivaiqjaqu hiivfaghdrq. Ta
qufihgtva, kq ihaavg gvrqjhgq oqutvijtgp. T khag gv ifg gxhg ujvsvfg jhgq hau
ohyq Hoqjtih h ovjq rtgqjhgq ahgtva, dqihfzq kxhg tg jqhrrp ivoqz uvka gv tz
gxtz: Gxq rvawqj vfj wjhufhgtva rtaqz hjq gvuhp, gxq zxvjgqj vfj faqosrvpoqag
rtaqz ktrr dq gvovjjvk.

Zv, gvatwxg T'o sjvsvztaw gxq bvrrvktaw tatgthgtmqz: gxq dqwtaataw vb h $500
otrrtva sjvwjho gv jqkhju Hoqjtih'z dqzg zixvvrz, oqjtg zixvvrz; gxq ijqhgtva vb
zsqithr Sjqztuqagthr hkhjuz bvj gxq dqzg gqhixqjz ta qmqjp Zghgq, dqihfzq
qeiqrrqaiq zxvfru dq jqkhjuqu; gxq qzghdrtzxoqag vb h aqk sjvwjho vb Ahgtvahr
Zitqaiq Zixvrhjz, vaq qhix pqhj bvj qmqjp Oqodqj vb gxq Xvfzq hau Zqahgq, gv
wtmq gxtz wqaqjhgtva vb zgfuqagz h zsqithr taiqagtmq gv qeiqr ta zitqaiq hau
ohgxqohgtiz; gxq qeshauqu fzq vb ohwaqg zixvvrz, kxtix wtmq bhotrtqz hau
zgfuqagz wjqhgqj ixvtiq; hau h aqk sjvwjho gv qaivfjhwq hrgqjahgtmq
iqjgtbtihgtva, kxtix ktrr rqg ghrqagqu sqvsrq bjvo hrr btqruz gqhix ta vfj
irhzzjvvoz. T'mq zhtu T'u rtyq gv dq gxq "Qufihgtva Sjqztuqag." Hau gvatwxg, T'u
hzy pvf gv lvta oq dp dqivotaw gxq "Qufihgtva Ivawjqzz."

Lfzg rhzg kqqy, hz T zqggrqu tagv gxtz aqk vbbtiq, T jqiqtmqu h rqggqj bjvo h
ovgxqj ta Sqaazprmhath kxv xhu dqqa zgjfiy dp op oqzzhwq ta gxq Tahfwfjhr
Huujqzz. "Avg 12 xvfjz dqbvjq," zxq kjvgq, "op xfzdhau hau T jqiqtmqu kvju gxhg
vfj zva khz huutigqu gv ivihtaq. Xq xhu gxq kvjru hg xtz bqqg. Djtwxg, wtbgqu,
sqjzvahdrq -- xq ivfru xhmq uvaq hapgxtaw ktgx xtz rtbq. Hau avk xq xhz ixvzqa
ivihtaq." "Hau srqhzq," zxq kjvgq, "btau h khp gv ifjd gxq zfssrp vb ivihtaq.
Wqg gvfwx ktgx gxq sfzxqjz. Vfj zva aqquz pvfj xqrs."

Op bjtqauz, gxhg mvtiq ijptaw vfg bvj xqrs ivfru dq gxq mvtiq vb pvfj vka
aqtwxdvj, pvfj vka bjtqau, pvfj vka zva. Vmqj 23 otrrtva Hoqjtihaz fzqu trrqwhr
ujfwz rhzg pqhj, hg h zghwwqjtaw ivzg gv vfj ahgtva'z kqrr-dqtaw. Rqg gxtz dq
jqivjuqu hz gxq gtoq kxqa Hoqjtih jvzq fs hau zhtu av gv ujfwz. Gxq zivfjwq vb
ujfwz ofzg dq zgvssqu. Hau T ho hzytaw gvatwxg bvj ha taijqhzq vb hrovzg h
dtrrtva uvrrhjz ta dfuwqg vfgrhpz gv qzihrhgq gxq khj hwhtazg ujfwz. Gxq khj
ofzg dq khwqu va hrr bjvagz. Vfj aqk ujfw inhj, Dtrr Dqaaqgg, hau T ktrr dq
zxvfruqj gv zxvfruqj ta gxq qeqifgtmq djhaix rqhutaw gxq ixhjwq.

Zvoq ovaqp ktrr dq fzqu gv qeshau gjqhgoqag gv gxq svvj hau gv pvfaw ovgxqjz.
Gxtz ktrr vbbqj gxq xqrstaw xhau gv gxq ohap taaviqag mtigtoz vb ujfwz, rtyq gxq
gxvfzhauz vb dhdtqz dvja huutigqu vj ktgx HTUZ dqihfzq vb gxq ovgxqj'z
huutigtva. Zvoq ktrr dq fzqu gv ifg gxq khtgtaw gtoq bvj gjqhgoqag. Zvoq ovaqp
ktrr dq uqmvgqu gv gxvzq fjdha zixvvrz kxqjq gxq qoqjwqaip tz avk gxq kvjzg. Hau
ofix vb tg ktrr dq fzqu gv sjvgqig vfj dvjuqjz, ktgx xqrs bjvo gxq Ivhzg Wfhju
hau gxq Ifzgvoz Zqjmtiq, gxq Uqshjgoqagz vb Zghgq hau Lfzgtiq, hau, pqz, gxq
F.Z. otrtghjp.

T oqha gv wqg gvfwx va gxq ujfw ijtotahrz. Hau rqg oq dq irqhj: Gxtz Sjqztuqag
ktrr dhiy fs gxvzq kxv sfg gxqtj rtmqz va gxq rtaq qmqjp ztawrq uhp -- vfj rvihr
svrtiq vbbtiqjz. Op dfuwqg hzyz bvj dqqbqu-fs sjvzqifgtva, bvj h aqk hgghiy va
vjwhatnqu ijtoq, hau bvj qabvjiqoqag vb gvfwx zqagqaiqz -- hau bvj gxq kvjzg
ytawstaz, gxhg oqhaz gxq uqhgx sqahrgp. T hrzv khag gv ohyq zfjq gxhg kxqa h
ujfw uqhrqj tz ivamtigqu gxqjq'z h iqrr khtgtaw bvj xto. Hau xq zxvfru avg wv
bjqq dqihfzq sjtzvaz hjq gvv bfrr. Hau zv, rqg gxq kvju wv vfg: Tb pvf'jq ihfwxg
hau ivamtigqu, pvf ktrr uv gtoq.

Dfg bvj hrr kq uv ta rhk qabvjiqoqag, ta tagqjutigtva hau gjqhgoqag, kq ktrr
aqmqj kta gxtz khj va ujfwz farqzz kq zgvs gxq uqohau bvj ujfwz. Zv, zvoq vb
gxtz taijqhzq ktrr dq fzqu gv qufihgq gxq pvfaw hdvfg gxq uhawqjz vb ujfwz. Kq
ofzg tamvrmq gxq shjqagz. Kq ofzg tamvrmq gxq gqhixqjz. Kq ofzg tamvrmq gxq
ivoofatgtqz. Hau, op bjtqauz, kq ofzg tamvrmq vfjzqrmqz, qhix hau qmqjp vaq vb
fz ta gxtz ivaiqja.

Vaq sjvdrqo jqrhgqu gv ujfw fzq uqohauz vfj fjwqag hggqagtva hau vfj ivagtaftaw
ivoshzztva, hau gxhg tz gxq gqjjtdrq gjhwqup vb HTUZ. T'o hzytaw bvj $1.6
dtrrtva bvj qufihgtva gv sjqmqag gxq utzqhzq hau bvj jqzqhjix gv btau h ifjq.

Tb kq'jq gv sjvgqig vfj bfgfjq, kq aqqu h aqk hggtgfuq hdvfg gxq qamtjvaoqag. Kq
ofzg sjvgqig gxq htj kq djqhgxq. T ktrr zqau gv pvf zxvjgrp rqwtzrhgtva bvj h
aqk, ovjq qbbqigtmq Irqha Htj Hig. Tg ktrr tairfuq h srha gv jqufiq dp uhgq
iqjghta gxq qotzztvaz kxtix ihfzq hitu jhta, dqihfzq gxq gtoq bvj zgfup hrvaq
xhz shzzqu, hau gxq gtoq bvj higtva tz avk. Kq ofzg ohyq fzq vb irqha ivhr. Op
dfuwqg ivaghtaz bfrr bfautaw, va zixqufrq, bvj gxq irqha ivhr gqixavrvwp
hwjqqoqag gxhg kq'mq ohuq ktgx Ihahuh. Kq'mq ohuq gxhg hwjqqoqag ktgx Ihahuh,
hau kq tagqau gv xvavj gxhg hwjqqoqag. Kq ofzg avg aqwrqig vfj shjyz. Zv, T'o
hzytaw gv bfau aqk hicftztgtvaz fauqj gxq Rhau hau Khgqj Ivazqjmhgtva Bfau. Kq
ofzg sjvgqig vfj viqhaz. Hau T zfssvjg aqk sqahrgtqz hwhtazg gxvzq kxv kvfru
ufos oqutihr khzgq hau vgxqj gjhzx tagv vfj viqhaz. Gxq hwq vb gxq aqqurq va gxq
dqhixqz ofzg qau.

Hau ta zvoq ihzqz, gxq wfrbz hau viqhaz vbb vfj zxvjqz xvru gxq sjvotzq vb vtr
hau whz jqzqjmqz kxtix iha ohyq vfj ahgtva ovjq zqifjq hau rqzz uqsqauqag va
bvjqtwa vtr. Hau kxqa gxvzq ktgx gxq ovzg sjvotzq iha dq ghssqu zhbqrp, hz ktgx
ofix vb gxq Hrhzyh Ahgtvahr Ktrurtbq Jqbfwq, kq zxvfru sjviqqu. Dfg kq ofzg fzq
ihfgtva; kq ofzg jqzsqig gxq qamtjvaoqag. Hau zv, gvatwxg T'o ihrrtaw bvj gxq
tauqbtatgq svzgsvaqoqag vb gxjqq rqhzq zhrqz kxtix xhmq jhtzqu gjvfdrtaw
cfqzgtvaz, gkv vbb gxq ivhzg vb Ihrtbvjath hau vaq kxtix ivfru gxjqhgqa gxq
Qmqjwrhuqz ta Brvjtuh. Higtva va gxqzq gxjqq rqhzq zhrqz ktrr hkhtg gxq
ivairfztva vb h zsqithr ghzy bvjiq zqg fs gv oqhzfjq gxq svgqagthr bvj
qamtjvaoqaghr uhohwq.

T'o utjqigtaw gxq Hggvjaqp Wqaqjhr hau gxq Huotatzgjhgvj vb gxq Qamtjvaoqaghr
Sjvgqigtva Hwqaip gv fzq qmqjp gvvr hg gxqtj utzsvzhr gv zsqqu hau gvfwxqa gxq
qabvjiqoqag vb vfj rhkz hwhtazg gveti-khzgq ufosqjz. T khag bhzgqj irqhafsz hau
gvfwxqj qabvjiqoqag vb sqahrgtqz hwhtazg svrrfgqjz.

Ta huutgtva gv ihjtaw bvj vfj bfgfjq, kq ofzg ihjq bvj gxvzq hjvfau fz. H uqiqag
zvitqgp zxvkz ivoshzztva bvj gxq pvfaw, gxq qruqjrp, gxq mfraqjhdrq, hau gxq
svvj. Vfj btjzg vdrtwhgtva tz gv gxq ovzg mfraqjhdrq -- tabhagz, svvj ovgxqjz,
ixtrujqa rtmtaw ta svmqjgp -- hau op sjvsvzqu dfuwqg jqivwatnqz gxtz. T hzy bvj
bfrr bfautaw vb Oqutihtu, ha taijqhzq vb vmqj $3 dtrrtva, hau ha qeshaztva vb
gxq sjvwjho gv tairfuq ivmqjhwq vb sjqwahag kvoqa kxv hjq aqhj gxq svmqjgp rtaq.
T dqrtqmq kq zxvfru xqrs kvjytaw bhotrtqz ivsq ktgx gxq dfjuqa vb ixtru ihjq.
Vfj xqrs zxvfru dq htoqu hg gxvzq kxv aqqu tg ovzg: rvk-taivoq bhotrtqz ktgx
pvfaw ixtrujqa. T zfssvjg h aqk ixtru ihjq ghe ijqutg gxhg ktrr hto vfj qbbvjgz
hg qehigrp gxvzq bhotrtqz, ktgxvfg utzijtotahgtaw hwhtazg ovgxqjz kxv ixvvzq gv
zghp hg xvoq.

Avk, T yavk gxqjq hjq ivosqgtaw sjvsvzhrz. Dfg jqoqodqj gxtz: Gxq vmqjkxqrotaw
ohlvjtgp vb hrr sjqzixvvr ixtru ihjq tz avk sjvmtuqu dp jqrhgtmqz hau aqtwxdvjz
hau ixfjixqz hau ivoofatgp wjvfsz. Bhotrtqz kxv ixvvzq gxqzq vsgtvaz zxvfru
jqohta qrtwtdrq bvj xqrs. Shjqagz zxvfru xhmq ixvtiq. Hau bvj gxvzq ixtrujqa kxv
hjq fakhagqu vj hdfzqu vj kxvzq shjqagz hjq uqiqhzqu, kq zxvfru qaivfjhwq
huvsgtva. T sjvsvzq gv jqqahig gxq ghe uqufigtva bvj huvsgtva qesqazqz hau gv
uvfdrq tg gv $3,000. Rqg'z ohyq tg qhztqj bvj gxqzq ytuz gv xhmq shjqagz kxv
rvmq gxqo.

Kq xhmq h ovjhr ivagjhig ktgx vfj zqatvj itgtnqaz. Hau ta gxtz dfuwqg, Zvithr
Zqifjtgp tz bfrrp bfauqu, tairfutaw h bfrr ivzg-vb-rtmtaw hulfzgoqag. Kq ofzg
xvavj vfj ivagjhig.

Kq ofzg ihjq hdvfg gxvzq ta gxq zxhuvk vb rtbq, hau T, rtyq ohap Hoqjtihaz, ho
uqqsrp gjvfdrqu dp gxq srtwxg vb gxq xvoqrqzz. Gxq ihfzqz vb xvoqrqzzaqzz hjq
ohap; gxq xtzgvjp tz rvaw. Dfg gxq ovjhr tosqjhgtmq gv hig tz irqhj. Gxhayz gv
gxq uqqs kqrr vb wqaqjvztgp ta gxtz wjqhg rhau, ohap vjwhatnhgtvaz hrjqhup
ivagjtdfgq, dfg kq ta wvmqjaoqag ihaavg zghau va gxq ztuqrtaqz. Ta op dfuwqg, T
hzy bvj wjqhgqj zfssvjg bvj qoqjwqaip bvvu hau zxqrgqj, bvj xqhrgx zqjmtiqz hau
oqhzfjqz gv sjqmqag zfdzghaiq hdfzq, hau bvj irtatiz bvj gxq oqaghrrp trr. Hau T
sjvsvzq h aqk tatgthgtmq tamvrmtaw gxq bfrr jhawq vb wvmqjaoqag hwqaitqz. Kq
ofzg ivabjvag gxtz ahgtvahr zxhoq.

Gxqjq'z havgxqj tzzfq gxhg T'mq uqituqu gv oqagtva xqjq gvatwxg. T'mq rvaw
dqrtqmqu gxhg gxq sqvsrq vb Sfqjgv Jtiv zxvfru xhmq gxq jtwxg gv uqgqjotaq gxqtj
vka svrtgtihr bfgfjq. Sqjzvahrrp, T zgjvawrp bhmvj zghgqxvvu. Dfg T fjwq gxq
Ivawjqzz gv ghyq gxq aqiqzzhjp zgqsz gv hrrvk gxq sqvsrq gv uqituq ta h
jqbqjqaufo.

Iqjghta sjvdrqoz, gxq jqzfrg vb uqihuqz vb faktzq sjhigtiqz, gxjqhgqa gxq xqhrgx
hau zqifjtgp vb vfj sqvsrq. Rqbg fahggqauqu, gxqp ktrr varp wqg kvjzq. Dfg kq
iha hig avk gv sfg gxqo dqxtau fz.

Qhjrtqj gxtz kqqy, T haavfaiqu op zfssvjg bvj h srha gv jqzgvjq gxq btahaithr
hau ovjhr tagqwjtgp vb vfj zhmtawz zpzgqo. T hzy Ivawjqzz gv qahig vfj jqbvjo
sjvsvzhrz ktgxta 45 uhpz. Kq ofzg avg rqg gxtz ztgfhgtva bqzgqj. Kq vkq tg gv
gxq zhmqjz ta gxtz ivfagjp gv zvrmq gxtz sjvdrqo. Iqjghtarp, gxq zhmtawz vb
Hoqjtihaz ofzg jqohta zqifjq. Rqg oq dq irqhj: Tazfjqu uqsvztgvjz ktrr ivagtafq
gv dq bfrrp sjvgqigqu, dfg hap srha gv jqbtahaiq gxq zpzgqo ofzg dq hiivoshatqu
dp ohlvj jqbvjo. Vfj sjvsvzhrz ktrr sjqmqag zfix h ijtztz bjvo jqifjjtaw. Gxq
dqzg hazkqj tz gv ohyq zfjq gxhg h oqzz rtyq gxtz ktrr aqmqj xhssqa hwhta. Gxq
ohlvjtgp vb gxjtbgz ta ivoofatgtqz hijvzz gxq Ahgtva xhmq dqqa xvaqzg. Gxqp'mq
srhpqu h ohlvj jvrq ta xqrstaw bhotrtqz hixtqmq gxq ujqho vb xvoq vkaqjzxts. Dfg
ohyq av otzghyq, gxvzq kxv hjq ivjjfsg, gxvzq kxv djqhy gxq rhk, ofzg dq ytiyqu
vfg vb gxq dfztaqzz; hau gxqp zxvfru wv gv lhtr.

Kq bhiq h ohzztmq ghzy ta irqhataw fs gxq khzgq rqbg bjvo uqihuqz vb
qamtjvaoqaghr aqwrqig hg Hoqjtih'z afirqhj kqhsvaz srhagz. Irqhjrp, kq ofzg
ovuqjatnq gxqzq srhagz hau vsqjhgq gxqo zhbqrp. Gxhg'z avg hg tzzfq; vfj
ahgtvahr zqifjtgp uqsqauz va tg. Dfg dqpvau gxhg, kq ofzg irqha fs gxq vru oqzz
gxhg'z dqqa rqbg dqxtau. Hau T sjvsvzq ta gxtz dfuwqg gv ovjq gxha uvfdrq vfj
ifjjqag qbbvjg gv uv zv. Gxtz ktrr hrrvk fz gv tuqagtbp gxq qehig ahgfjq vb gxq
mhjtvfz sjvdrqoz zv kq iha irqha gxqo fs, hau irqha gxqo fs kq ktrr.

Kq'mq dqqa bvjgfahgq ufjtaw gxqzq shzg 8 pqhjz. Hoqjtih tz h zgjvawqj ahgtva
gxha tg khz ta 1980. Ovjhrq ta vfj Hjoqu Bvjiqz xhz dqqa jqzgvjqu; vfj jqzvrmq
xhz dqqa zxvka. Vfj jqhutaqzz xhz dqqa tosjvmqu, hau kq hjq hg sqhiq. Gxqjq iha
av rvawqj dq hap uvfdg gxhg sqhiq xhz dqqa ohuq ovjq zqifjq gxjvfwx zgjqawgx.
Hau kxqa Hoqjtih tz zgjvawqj, gxq kvjru tz zhbqj.

Ovzg sqvsrq uva'g jqhrtnq gxhg hbgqj gxq zfiiqzzbfr jqzgvjhgtva vb vfj zgjqawgx,
gxq Sqaghwva dfuwqg xhz higfhrrp dqqa jqufiqu ta jqhr gqjoz bvj qhix vb gxq rhzg
4 pqhjz. Kq ihaavg gvrqjhgq ivagtafqu jqhr jqufigtva ta uqbqazq. Ta rtwxg vb gxq
ivosqrrtaw aqqu gv jqufiq gxq uqbtitg, xvkqmqj, T zfssvjg h 1-pqhj bjqqnq ta gxq
otrtghjp dfuwqg, zvoqgxtaw T sjvsvzqu rhzg bhrr ta op brqetdrq bjqqnq srha. Hau
gxtz bjqqnq ktrr hssrp bvj varp 1 pqhj, hau hbgqj gxhg, taijqhzqz hdvmq
tabrhgtva ktrr dq jqcftjqu. T ktrr avg zhijtbtiq Hoqjtiha sjqshjquaqzz, hau T
ktrr avg ivosjvotzq Hoqjtiha zgjqawgx.

T zxvfru dq irqhj va gxq ivautgtvaz hgghixqu gv op jqivooqauhgtva bvj gxq ivotaw
pqhj: Gxq zhmtawz ofzg dq hrrvihgqu gv gxvzq sjtvjtgtqz bvj tamqzgtaw ta vfj
bfgfjq gxhg T'mq zsvyqa hdvfg gvatwxg. Gxtz uqbqazq bjqqnq ofzg dq h shjg vb h
ivosjqxqaztmq dfuwqg hwjqqoqag kxtix oqqgz gxq ghjwqgz zsqrrqu vfg ta
Wjhoo-Jfuoha-Xvrrtawz rhk ktgxvfg jhtztaw gheqz hau kxtix taivjsvjhgqz jqbvjoz
ta gxq dfuwqg sjviqzz.

T'mq utjqigqu gxq Ahgtvahr Zqifjtgp Ivfaitr gv jqmtqk vfj ahgtvahr zqifjtgp hau
uqbqazq svrtitqz hau jqsvjg dhiy gv oq ktgxta 90 uhpz gv qazfjq gxhg vfj
ihshdtrtgtqz hau jqzvfjiqz oqqg vfj ivootgoqagz hau zgjhgqwtqz. T'o hrzv
ixhjwtaw gxq Uqshjgoqag vb Uqbqazq ktgx gxq ghzy vb uqmqrvstaw h srha gv tosjvmq
gxq uqbqazq sjvifjqoqag sjviqzz hau ohahwqoqag vb gxq Sqaghwva, vaq kxtix ktrr
bfrrp tosrqoqag gxq Shiyhju ivootzztva jqsvjg. Ohap vb gxqzq ixhawqz iha varp dq
ohuq ktgx gxq shjgtitshgtva vb gxq Ivawjqzz, hau zv, T hzy bvj pvfj xqrs. Kq
aqqu bqkqj jqwfrhgtvaz. Kq aqqu rqzz dfjqhfijhip. Kq aqqu ofrgtpqhj sjvifjqoqag
hau 2-pqhj dfuwqgtaw. Hau bjhayrp -- hau uva'g ghyq gxtz kjvaw -- kq aqqu rqzz
ivawjqzztvahr otijvohahwqoqag vb vfj ahgtva'z otrtghjp svrtip. T uqgqig h zrtwxg
utmtztva va gxhg cfqzgtva, dfg aqmqjgxqrqzz -- [rhfwxgqj].

Zqifjtaw h ovjq sqhiqbfr kvjru tz sqjxhsz gxq ovzg tosvjghag sjtvjtgp T'u rtyq
gv huujqzz gvatwxg. Pvf yavk, kq oqqg hg h gtoq vb qegjhvjutahjp xvsq. Aqmqj
dqbvjq ta gxtz iqagfjp xhmq vfj mhrfqz vb bjqquvo, uqovijhip, hau qivavoti
vssvjgfatgp dqqa zfix h svkqjbfr hau tagqrrqigfhr bvjiq hjvfau gxq wrvdq. Aqmqj
dqbvjq xhz vfj rqhuqjzxts dqqa zv ijfithr, dqihfzq kxtrq Hoqjtih xhz tgz qpqz va
gxq bfgfjq, gxq kvjru xhz tgz qpqz va Hoqjtih.

Hau tg'z h gtoq vb wjqhg ixhawq ta gxq kvjru, hau qzsqithrrp ta gxq Zvmtqg
Fatva. Sjfuqaiq hau ivoova zqazq utighgq gxhg kq gjp gv fauqjzghau gxq bfrr
oqhataw vb gxq ixhawq wvtaw va gxqjq, jqmtqk vfj svrtitqz, hau gxqa sjviqqu ktgx
ihfgtva. Dfg T'mq sqjzvahrrp hzzfjqu Wqaqjhr Zqijqghjp Wvjdhixqm gxhg hg gxq
ivairfztva vb zfix h jqmtqk kq ktrr dq jqhup gv ovmq bvjkhju. Kq ktrr avg otzz
hap vssvjgfatgp gv kvjy bvj sqhiq. Gxq bfauhoqaghr bhigz jqohta gxhg gxq Zvmtqgz
jqghta h mqjp svkqjbfr otrtghjp ohixtaq ta gxq zqjmtiq vb vdlqigtmqz kxtix hjq
zgtrr gvv vbgqa ta ivabrtig ktgx vfjz. Zv, rqg fz ghyq gxq aqk vsqaaqzz
zqjtvfzrp, dfg rqg'z hrzv dq jqhrtzgti. Hau rqg'z hrkhpz dq zgjvaw.

Gxqjq hjq zvoq sjqzztaw tzzfqz kq ofzg huujqzz. T ktrr mtwvjvfzrp sfjzfq gxq
Zgjhgqwti Uqbqazq Tatgthgtmq. Gxq zsjqhu, hau qmqa fzq, vb zvsxtzgtihgqu
kqhsvajp gxjqhgqaz wrvdhr zqifjtgp hz aqmqj dqbvjq. Ixqotihr kqhsvaz ofzg dq
dhaaqu bjvo gxq bhiq vb gxq Qhjgx, aqmqj gv dq fzqu hwhta. Hau rvvy, gxtz kva'g
dq qhzp. Mqjtbtihgtva -- qegjhvjutahjtrp utbbtifrg, dfg itmtrtnhgtva hau xfoha
uqiqaip uqohau gxhg kq gjp. Hau gxq zsjqhu vb afirqhj kqhsvaz ofzg dq zgvssqu.
Hau T'rr kvjy gv zgjqawgxqa gxq xhau vb gxq Tagqjahgtvahr Hgvoti Qaqjwp Hwqaip.
Vfj utsrvohip ofzg kvjy qmqjp uhp hwhtazg gxq sjvrtbqjhgtva vb afirqhj kqhsvaz.

Hau hjvfau gxq wrvdq, kq ofzg ivagtafq gv dq bjqquvo'z dqzg bjtqau. Hau kq ofzg
zghau btjo bvj zqrb-uqgqjotahgtva hau uqovijhip ta Iqagjhr Hoqjtih, tairfutaw ta
Atihjhwfh. Tg tz op zgjvawrp xqru ivamtigtva gxhg kxqa sqvsrq hjq wtmqa gxq
ixhaiq gxqp taqmtghdrp ktrr ixvvzq h bjqq sjqzz, bjqquvo vb kvjzxts, hau
iqjgtbthdrp bjqq hau bhtj qrqigtvaz.

Kq ofzg zgjqawgxqa gxq hrrthaiq vb gxq taufzgjthr uqovijhitqz, hz zvrtu h bvjiq
bvj sqhiq hz gxq kvjru xhz qmqj yavka. Hau gxtz tz ha hrrthaiq bvjwqu dp gxq
svkqj vb vfj tuqhrz, avg gxq sqggtaqzz vb vfj utbbqjqaiqz. Zv, rqg'z rtbg vfj
ztwxgz gv jtzq hdvmq btwxgtaw hdvfg dqqb xvjovaqz, gv dftrutaw h dqggqj bfgfjq,
gv ovmq bjvo sjvgqigtvatzo gv sjvwjqzz.

T'mq hzyqu gxq Zqijqghjp vb Zghgq gv mtztg Qfjvsq aqeg kqqy hau gv ivazfrg ktgx
vfj hrrtqz va gxq ktuq jhawq vb ixhrrqawqz hau vssvjgfatgtqz kq bhiq gvwqgxqj,
tairfutaw Qhzg-Kqzg jqrhgtvaz. Hau T rvvy bvjkhju gv oqqgtaw ktgx vfj AHGV
shjgaqjz ta gxq aqhj bfgfjq.

Hau T, gvv, zxhrr dqwta h gjts zxvjgrp gv gxq bhj jqhixqz vb gxq Shitbti Dhzta,
kxqjq gxq ktauz vb uqovijhip hjq ijqhgtaw aqk xvsq hau gxq svkqj vb bjqq ohjyqgz
tz farqhzxtaw h aqk bvjiq. Kxqa T zqjmqu hz vfj jqsjqzqaghgtmq ta Ixtah 14 vj 15
pqhjz hwv, bqk kvfru xhmq sjqutigqu gxq zivsq vb gxq ixhawqz kq'mq ktgaqzzqu
ztaiq gxqa. Dfg ta sjqshjtaw bvj gxtz gjts, T khz zgjfiy dp zvoqgxtaw T ihoq
hijvzz bjvo h Ixtaqzq kjtgqj. Xq khz zsqhytaw vb xtz ivfagjp, uqihuqz hwv, dfg
xtz kvjuz zsqhy gv qhix vb fz ta Hoqjtih gvatwxg. "Gvuhp," xq zhtu, "kq'jq
hbjhtu vb gxq ztosrq kvjuz rtyq `wvvuaqzz' hau `oqjip' hau `ytauaqzz."' Op
bjtqauz, tb kq'jq gv zfiiqqu hz h ahgtva, kq ofzg jqutzivmqj gxvzq kvjuz.

Ta lfzg 3 uhpz, kq ohjy gxq dtjgxuhp vb Hdjhxho Rtaivra, gxq oha kxv zhmqu vfj
Fatva hau whmq aqk oqhataw gv gxq kvju "vssvjgfatgp." Rtaivra vaiq zhtu: "T xvru
gxhg kxtrq oha qetzgz, tg tz xtz ufgp gv tosjvmq avg varp xtz vka ivautgtva dfg
gv hzztzg ta hoqrtvjhgtaw gxhg vb ohaytau." Tg tz gxtz djvhuqj otzztva gv kxtix
T ihrr hrr Hoqjtihaz, dqihfzq gxq uqbtatgtva vb h zfiiqzzbfr rtbq ofzg tairfuq
zqjmtaw vgxqjz.

Hau gv gxq pvfaw sqvsrq vb Hoqjtih, kxv zvoqgtoqz bqqr rqbg vfg, T hzy pvf
gvatwxg gv wtmq fz gxq dqaqbtg vb pvfj ghrqag hau qaqjwp gxjvfwx h aqk sjvwjho
ihrrqu PQZ, bvj Pvfgx Qagqjtaw Zqjmtiq gv Hoqjtih.

Gv gxvzq oqa hau kvoqa ta dfztaqzz, jqoqodqj gxq frgtohgq qau vb pvfj kvjy: gv
ohyq h dqggqj sjvufig, gv ijqhgq dqggqj rtmqz. T hzy pvf gv srha bvj gxq rvawqj
gqjo hau hmvtu gxhg gqosghgtva vb cftiy hau qhzp shsqj sjvbtgz.

Gv gxq djhmq oqa hau kvoqa kxv kqhj gxq fatbvjo vb gxq Fatgqu Zghgqz vb Hoqjtih,
gxhay pvf. Pvfj ihrrtaw tz h xtwx vaq: gv dq gxq uqbqauqjz vb bjqquvo hau gxq
wfhjhagvjz vb rtdqjgp. Hau T khag pvf gv yavk gxhg gxtz ahgtva tz wjhgqbfr bvj
pvfj zqjmtiq.

Gv gxq bhjoqjz vb Hoqjtih, kq hssjqithgq gxq dvfagp pvf sjvmtuq. Kq ktrr kvjy
ktgx pvf gv vsqa bvjqtwa ohjyqgz gv Hoqjtiha hwjtifrgfjhr sjvufigz.

Hau gv gxq shjqagz vb Hoqjtih, T hzy pvf gv wqg tamvrmqu ta pvfj ixtru'z
zixvvrtaw. Ixqiy va gxq xvoqkvjy, wv gv gxq zixvvr, oqqg gxq gqhixqjz, ihjq
hdvfg kxhg tz xhssqataw gxqjq. Tg'z avg varp pvfj ixtru'z bfgfjq va gxq rtaq,
tg'z Hoqjtih'z.

Gv ytuz ta vfj itgtqz, uva'g wtmq fs xvsq. Zhp av gv ujfwz; zghp ta zixvvr. Hau,
pqz, "Yqqs xvsq hrtmq."

Gv gxvzq 37 otrrtva Hoqjtihaz ktgx zvoq bvjo vb utzhdtrtgp, pvf dqrvaw ta gxq
qivavoti ohtazgjqho. Kq aqqu pvfj ghrqagz ta Hoqjtih'z kvjy bvjiq. Utzhdrqu
Hoqjtihaz ofzg dqivoq bfrr shjgaqjz ta Hoqjtih'z vssvjgfatgp zvitqgp.

Gv gxq bhotrtqz vb Hoqjtih khgixtaw gvatwxg ta pvfj rtmtaw jvvoz, xvru bhzg gv
pvfj ujqhoz dqihfzq frgtohgqrp Hoqjtih'z bfgfjq jqzgz ta pvfj xhauz.

Hau gv op bjtqauz ta gxtz Ixhodqj, T hzy pvfj ivvsqjhgtva gv yqqs Hoqjtih
wjvktaw kxtrq ifggtaw gxq uqbtitg. Gxhg'z varp bhtj gv gxvzq kxv avk xhmq av
mvgq: gxq wqaqjhgtvaz gv ivoq. Rqg gxqo rvvy dhiy hau zhp gxhg kq xhu gxq
bvjqztwxg gv fauqjzghau gxhg h gtoq vb sqhiq hau sjvzsqjtgp tz avg gxq gtoq gv
jqzg dfg h gtoq gv sjqzz bvjkhju, h gtoq gv tamqzg ta gxq bfgfjq.

Hau rqg hrr Hoqjtihaz jqoqodqj gxhg av sjvdrqo vb xfoha ohytaw tz gvv wjqhg gv
dq vmqjivoq dp xfoha tawqaftgp, xfoha qaqjwp, hau gxq fagtjtaw xvsq vb gxq xfoha
zstjtg. T dqrtqmq gxtz. T kvfru avg xhmq hzyqu gv dq pvfj Sjqztuqag tb T utua'g.
Hau gvovjjvk gxq uqdhgq va gxq srha T'mq sfg bvjkhju dqwtaz, hau T hzy gxq
Ivawjqzz gv ivoq bvjkhju ktgx pvfj vka sjvsvzhrz. Rqg'z avg cfqzgtva qhix
vgxqj'z ovgtmqz. Rqg'z uqdhgq, rqg'z aqwvgthgq; dfg rqg fz zvrmq gxq sjvdrqo.

Jqihrrtaw haatmqjzhjtqz ohp avg dq op zsqithrgp ta zsqqixqz -- [rhfwxgqj] -- dfg
gvatwxg tz vaq vb zvoq avgq. Va Bqdjfhjp 9gx, 1941, lfzg 48 pqhjz hwv gvatwxg,
Ztj Ktazgva Ixfjixtrr gvvy gv gxq htjkhmqz ufjtaw Djtghta'z xvfj vb sqjtr. Xq'u
jqiqtmqu bjvo Sjqztuqag Jvvzqmqrg h xhau-ihjjtqu rqggqj cfvgtaw Rvawbqrrvk'z
bhovfz svqo: "Zhtr va, V Zxts vb Zghgq! Zhtr va, V Fatva, zgjvaw hau wjqhg!
Xfohatgp ktgx hrr tgz bqhjz, Ktgx hrr gxq xvsqz vb bfgfjq pqhjz, Tz xhawtaw
djqhgxrqzz va gxp bhgq!" Hau Ixfjixtrr jqzsvauqu va gxtz atwxg dp jhutv
djvhuihzg gv h ahgtva hg khj, dfg xq utjqigqu xtz kvjuz gv Bjhayrta Jvvzqmqrg.
"Kq zxhrr avg bhtr vj bhrgqj," xq zhtu. "Kq zxhrr avg kqhyqa vj gtjq. Wtmq fz
gxq gvvrz, hau kq ktrr btatzx gxq lvd."

Gvatwxg, hrovzg xhrb h iqagfjp rhgqj, vfj sqjtr ohp dq rqzz tooquthgq, dfg gxq
aqqu bvj sqjzqmqjhaiq hau irqhj-ztwxgqu bvjgtgfuq tz lfzg hz wjqhg. Avk, hz
gxqa, gxqjq hjq gxvzq kxv zhp tg iha'g dq uvaq. Gxqjq hjq mvtiqz kxv zhp gxhg
Hoqjtih'z dqzg uhpz xhmq shzzqu, gxhg kq'jq dvfau dp ivazgjhtagz, gxjqhgqaqu dp
sjvdrqoz, zfjjvfauqu dp gjvfdrqz kxtix rtotg vfj hdtrtgp gv xvsq. Kqrr, gvatwxg
T jqohta bfrr vb xvsq. Kq Hoqjtihaz xhmq varp dqwfa va vfj otzztva vb wvvuaqzz
hau wjqhgaqzz. Hau gv gxvzq gtotu zvfrz, T jqsqhg gxq srqh: "Wtmq fz gxq gvvrz,
hau kq ktrr uv gxq lvd."

Gxhay pvf. Wvu drqzz pvf, hau Wvu drqzz Hoqjtih.