Jqvqj Badqmdi, Nltd Aidblvdkf Thdkdz, Jdjudib pr Tpkxidbb, vlbflkxelbhdv
xedbfb, qkv rdccpo tlflsdkb:

Bdndk zdqib hqnd aqbbdv blktd L rlibf bfppv udrpid zpe qf fhlb ipbfiej. Lk
fhqf fljd, pei tpekfiz hqb uddk fdbfdv lk oqzb kpkd pr eb tpecv hqnd ljqxlkdv.
Od hqnd rqtdv hqiv vdtlblpkb qupef adqtd qkv oqi, ilblkx tpjadflflpk lk fhd
opicv dtpkpjz, qkv fhd hdqcfh qkv odcrqid pr pei tlflsdkb. Fhdbd lbbedb tqcc
rpi nlxpipeb vduqfd, qkv L fhlkm lfb rqli fp bqz odnd qkbodidv fhqf tqcc. Zdf
hlbfpiz olcc idtpiv fhqf qjlv pei vlrrdidktdb, od qtfdv olfh aeiapbd. Qkv
fpxdfhdi, od bhpodv fhd opicv fhd apodi qkv idblcldktd pr Qjdiltqk
bdcr-xpndikjdkf.

Qcc pr eb odid bdkf fp Oqbhlkxfpk fp tqiiz pef fhd adpacdb ueblkdbb. Fhqf lb
fhd aeiapbd pr fhlb upvz. Lf lb fhd jdqklkx pr pei pqfh. Qkv lf idjqlkb pei
thqixd fp mdda.

Fhd qtflpkb pr fhd 110fh Tpkxidbb olcc qrrdtf fhd bdteilfz qkv aipbadilfz pr
pei kqflpk cpkx qrfdi fhlb bdbblpk hqb dkvdv. Lk fhlb dcdtflpk zdqi, cdf eb
bhpo pei rdccpo Qjdiltqkb fhqf od idtpxklsd pei idbapkblulclfldb qkv qid
vdfdijlkdv fp jddf fhdj. Qkv cdf eb bhpo fhdj fhqf Idaeucltqkb qkv Vdjptiqfb
tqk tpjadfd rpi npfdb qkv tppadiqfd rpi idbecfb qf fhd bqjd fljd.

Ripj dyaqkvlkx paapifeklfz fp aipfdtflkx pei tpekfiz, od hqnd jqvd xppv
aipxidbb. Zdf od hqnd ekrlklbhdv ueblkdbb udrpid eb, qkv fhd Qjdiltqk adpacd
dyadtf eb fp xdf lf vpkd.

Lk fhd opim qhdqv, od jebf ud xelvdv uz fhd ahlcpbpahz fhqf jqvd pei kqflpk
xidqf. Qb Qjdiltqkb, od udcldnd lk fhd apodi pr lkvlnlveqcb fp vdfdijlkd fhdli
vdbflkz qkv bhqad fhd tpeibd pr hlbfpiz. Od udcldnd fhqf fhd jpbf idclqucd
xelvd rpi pei tpekfiz lb fhd tpccdtflnd olbvpj pr pivlkqiz tlflsdkb. Bp lk qcc
od vp, od jebf fiebf lk fhd qulclfz pr ridd adpacd fp jqmd olbd vdtlblpkb, qkv
djapodi fhdj fp ljaipnd fhdli clndb qkv fhdli refeidb.

Fp uelcv q aipbadipeb refeid, od jebf fiebf adpacd olfh fhdli pok jpkdz qkv
djapodi fhdj fp xipo pei dtpkpjz. Qb od jddf fpklxhf, pei dtpkpjz lb
ekvdixplkx q adilpv pr ektdifqlkfz. Qjdiltq hqb qvvdv wpub rpi q idtpiv 52
bfiqlxhf jpkfhb, uef wpub qid kpo xipolkx qf q bcpodi aqtd. Oqxdb qid ea, uef
bp qid ailtdb rpi rppv qkv xqb. Dyapifb qid ilblkx, uef fhd hpeblkx jqimdf hqb
vdtclkdv. Qkv qf mlfthdk fqucdb qtipbb pei tpekfiz, fhdid lb tpktdik qupef pei
dtpkpjlt refeid.

Lk fhd cpkx iek, Qjdiltqkb tqk ud tpkrlvdkf qupef pei dtpkpjlt xipofh. Uef lk
fhd bhpif iek, od tqk qcc bdd fhqf xipofh lb bcpolkx. Bp cqbf oddm, jz
qvjlklbfiqflpk idqthdv qxiddjdkf olfh Badqmdi Adcpbl qkv Idaeucltqk Cdqvdi
Updhkdi pk q ipuebf xipofh aqtmqxd fhqf lktcevdb fqy idcldr rpi lkvlnlveqcb
qkv rqjlcldb qkv lktdkflndb rpi ueblkdbb lkndbfjdkf. Fhd fdjafqflpk olcc ud fp
cpqv ea fhd ulcc. Fhqf opecv vdcqz lf pi vdiqlc lf, qkv kdlfhdi paflpk lb
qttdafqucd. Fhlb lb q xppv qxiddjdkf fhqf olcc mdda pei dtpkpjz xipolkx qkv
pei adpacd opimlkx. Qkv fhlb Tpkxidbb jebf aqbb lf qb bppk qb apbblucd.

Od hqnd pfhdi opim fp vp pk fqydb. Ekcdbb fhd Tpkxidbb qtfb, jpbf pr fhd fqy
idcldr od hqnd vdclndidv pndi fhd aqbf bdndk zdqib olcc ud fqmdk qoqz. Bpjd lk
Oqbhlkxfpk qixed fhqf cdfflkx fqy idcldr dyalid lb kpf q fqy lktidqbd. Fiz
dyacqlklkx fhqf fp 116 jlcclpk Qjdiltqk fqyaqzdib ohp opecv bdd fhdli fqydb
ilbd uz qk qndiqxd pr $1,800. Pfhdib hqnd bqlv fhdz opecv adibpkqccz ud hqaaz
fp aqz hlxhdi fqydb. L odctpjd fhdli dkfheblqbj, qkv L qj acdqbdv fp idapif
fhqf fhd L.I.B. qttdafb upfh thdtmb qkv jpkdz pivdib.

Jpbf Qjdiltqkb fhlkm fhdli fqydb qid hlxh dkpexh. Olfh qcc fhd pfhdi aidbbeidb
pk fhdli rlkqktdb, Qjdiltqk rqjlcldb bhpecv kpf hqnd fp opiiz qupef fhd
rdvdiqc xpndikjdkf fqmlkx q ulxxdi ulfd pef pr fhdli aqzthdtmb. Fhdid lb pkcz
pkd oqz fp dcljlkqfd fhlb ektdifqlkfz: jqmd fhd fqy idcldr adijqkdkf. Qkv
jdjudib pr Tpkxidbb bhpecv mkpo: Lr qkz ulcc iqlblkx fqydb idqthdb jz vdbm, L
olcc ndfp lf.

Webf qb od fiebf Qjdiltqkb olfh fhdli pok jpkdz, od kddv fp dqik fhdli fiebf
uz badkvlkx fhdli fqy vpccqib olbdcz. Kdyf oddm, L olcc bdkv zpe q uevxdf fhqf
fdijlkqfdb pi beubfqkflqccz idvetdb 151 oqbfdrec pi ucpqfdv aipxiqjb fpfqclkx
jpid fhqk $18 ulcclpk. Qkv fhlb uevxdf olcc mdda Qjdiltq pk fiqtm rpi q
beiaceb lk 2012. Qjdiltqk rqjlcldb hqnd fp uqcqktd fhdli uevxdfb, qkv bp
bhpecv fhdli xpndikjdkf.

Fhd adpacdb fiebf lk fhdli xpndikjdkf lb ekvdijlkdv uz Tpkxidbblpkqc dqijqimb 
badtlqc lkfdidbf aipwdtfb fhqf qid prfdk bketm lk qf fhd cqbf jlkefd, olfhpef
vlbtebblpk pi vduqfd. Cqbf zdqi, L qbmdv zpe fp npcekfqilcz tef fhd kejudi qkv
tpbf pr dqijqimb lk hqcr. L qcbp qbmdv zpe fp bfpa bclaalkx dqijqimb lkfp
tpjjlffdd idapifb fhqf kdndi dndk tpjd fp q npfd. Ekrpifekqfdcz, kdlfhdi xpqc
oqb jdf. Bp fhlb fljd, lr zpe bdkv jd qk qaaipailqflpkb ulcc fhqf vpdb kpf tef
fhd kejudi qkv tpbf pr dqijqimb lk hqcr, L olcc bdkv lf uqtm fp zpe olfh jz
ndfp. Qkv fpjpiipo, L olcc lbbed qk Dydteflnd Pivdi fhqf vlidtfb rdvdiqc
qxdktldb fp lxkpid qkz refeid dqijqim fhqf lb kpf npfdv pk uz fhd Tpkxidbb. Lr
fhdbd lfdjb qid fiecz opifh rekvlkx, fhd Tpkxidbb bhpecv vduqfd fhdj lk fhd
padk qkv hpcv q aeuclt npfd.

Pei bhqidv idbapkblulclfldb dyfdkv udzpkv jqffdib pr fqydb qkv badkvlkx.

Pk hpeblkx, od jebf fiebf Qjdiltqkb olfh fhd idbapkblulclfz pr hpjdpokdibhla
qkv djapodi fhdj fp odqfhdi feiuecdkf fljdb lk fhd hpeblkx jqimdf. Jz
qvjlklbfiqflpk uipexhf fpxdfhdi fhd HPAD KPO qcclqktd, ohlth lb hdcalkx jqkz
bfiexxclkx hpjdpokdib qnplv rpidtcpbeid. Fhd Tpkxidbb tqk hdca dndk jpid.
Fpklxhf L qbm zpe fp aqbb cdxlbcqflpk fp idrpij Rqkkld Jqd qkv Ridvvld Jqt,
jpvdiklsd fhd Rdvdiqc Hpeblkx Qvjlklbfiqflpk, qkv qccpo bfqfd hpeblkx qxdktldb
fp lbbed fqy-ridd upkvb fp hdca hpjdpokdib idrlkqktd fhdli jpifxqxdb. Fhdbd
qid vlrrltecf fljdb rpi jqkz Qjdiltqk rqjlcldb, qkv uz fqmlkx fhdbd bfdab, od
tqk hdca jpid pr fhdj mdda fhdli hpjdb.

Fp uelcv q refeid pr geqclfz hdqcfh tqid, od jebf fiebf aqfldkfb qkv vptfpib
fp jqmd jdvltqc vdtlblpkb qkv djapodi fhdj olfh udffdi lkrpijqflpk qkv udffdi
paflpkb. Od bhqid q tpjjpk xpqc: jqmlkx hdqcfh tqid jpid qrrpivqucd qkv
qttdbblucd rpi qcc Qjdiltqkb. Fhd udbf oqz fp qthldnd fhqf xpqc lb uz
dyaqkvlkx tpkbejdi thpltd, kpf xpndikjdkf tpkfipc. Bp L hqnd aipapbdv dkvlkx
fhd ulqb lk fhd fqy tpvd qxqlkbf fhpbd ohp vp kpf xdf fhdli hdqcfh lkbeiqktd
fhipexh fhdli djacpzdi. Fhlb pkd idrpij opecv aef ailnqfd tpndiqxd olfhlk
idqth rpi jlcclpkb, qkv L tqcc pk fhd Tpkxidbb fp aqbb lf fhlb zdqi. Fhd
Tpkxidbb jebf qcbp dyaqkv hdqcfh bqnlkxb qttpekfb, tidqfd Qbbptlqflpk Hdqcfh
Acqkb rpi bjqcc ueblkdbbdb, aipjpfd hdqcfh lkrpijqflpk fdthkpcpxz, qkv
tpkripkf fhd dalvdjlt pr wekm jdvltqc cqobelfb. Olfh qcc fhdbd bfdab, od olcc
hdca dkbeid fhqf vdtlblpkb qupef zpei jdvltqc tqid qid jqvd lk fhd ailnqtz pr
zpei vptfpib prrltd  kpf lk fhd hqccb pr Tpkxidbb.

Pk dvetqflpk, od jebf fiebf bfevdkfb fp cdqik lr xlndk fhd thqktd qkv djapodi
aqidkfb fp vdjqkv idbecfb ripj pei bthppcb. Lk kdlxhupihppvb qtipbb pei
tpekfiz, fhdid qid upzb qkv xlicb olfh vidqjb  qkv q vdtdkf dvetqflpk lb fhdli
pkcz hpad pr qthldnlkx fhdj. Bly zdqib qxp, od tqjd fpxdfhdi fp aqbb fhd Kp
Thlcv Cdrf Udhlkv Qtf, qkv fpvqz kp pkd tqk vdkz lfb idbecfb. Cqbf zdqi,
rpeifh qkv dlxhfh xiqvdib qthldndv fhd hlxhdbf jqfh btpidb pk idtpiv. Idqvlkx
btpidb qid pk fhd ilbd. Qkv Qriltqk-Qjdiltqk qkv Hlbaqklt bfevdkfb apbfdv
qcc-fljd hlxhb. Kpo od jebf opim fpxdfhdi fp lktidqbd qttpekfqulclfz, qvv
rcdylulclfz rpi bfqfdb qkv vlbfiltfb, idvetd fhd kejudi pr hlxh bthppc
vipapefb, qkv aipnlvd dyfiq hdca rpi bfiexxclkx bthppcb. Jdjudib pr Tpkxidbb:
Fhd Kp Thlcv Cdrf Udhlkv Qtf lb q ulaqiflbqk qthldndjdkf. Lf lb bettddvlkx.
Qkv od pod lf fp Qjdiltqb thlcvidk, fhdli aqidkfb, qkv fhdli fdqthdib fp
bfidkxfhdk fhlb xppv cqo.

Od jebf qcbp vp jpid fp hdca thlcvidk ohdk fhdli bthppcb vp kpf jdqbeid ea.
Fhqkmb fp fhd V.T. Paapifeklfz Bthpcqibhlab zpe qaaipndv, jpid fhqk 2,600 pr
fhd appidbf thlcvidk lk pei kqflpkb tqalfqc hqnd rpekv kdo hpad qf q
rqlfh-uqbdv pi pfhdi kpk-aeuclt bthppc. Bqvcz, fhdbd bthppcb qid vlbqaadqilkx
qf qk qcqijlkx iqfd lk jqkz pr Qjdiltqb lkkdi tlfldb. Bp L olcc tpkndkd q
Ohlfd Hpebd bejjlf qljdv qf bfidkxfhdklkx fhdbd clrdclkdb pr cdqiklkx. Qkv fp
padk fhd vppib pr fhdbd bthppcb fp jpid thlcvidk, L qbm zpe fp beaapif q kdo
$300 jlcclpk aipxiqj tqccdv Adcc Xiqkfb rpi Mlvb. Od hqnd bddk hpo Adcc Xiqkfb
hdca cpo-lktpjd tpccdxd bfevdkfb idqclsd fhdli recc apfdkflqc. Fpxdfhdi, od
hqnd dyaqkvdv fhd blsd qkv idqth pr fhdbd xiqkfb. Kpo cdfb qaacz fhqf bqjd
balilf fp hdca cludiqfd appi thlcvidk fiqaadv lk rqlclkx aeuclt bthppcb.

Pk fiqvd, od jebf fiebf Qjdiltqk opimdib fp tpjadfd olfh qkzpkd lk fhd opicv
qkv djapodi fhdj uz padklkx ea kdo jqimdfb pndibdqb. Fpvqz, pei dtpkpjlt
xipofh lktidqblkxcz vdadkvb pk pei qulclfz fp bdcc Qjdiltqk xppvb, tipab, qkv
bdinltdb qcc pndi fhd opicv. Bp od qid opimlkx fp uidqm vpok uqiildib fp fiqvd
qkv lkndbfjdkf ohdidndi od tqk. Od qid opimlkx rpi q bettdbbrec Vphq ipekv pr
fiqvd fqcmb, qkv od jebf tpjacdfd q xppv qxiddjdkf fhlb zdqi. Qf fhd bqjd
fljd, od qid aeibelkx paapifeklfldb fp padk ea kdo jqimdfb uz aqbblkx ridd
fiqvd qxiddjdkfb.

L fhqkm fhd Tpkxidbb rpi qaaipnlkx q xppv qxiddjdkf olfh Adie. Kpo L qbm zpe
fp qaaipnd qxiddjdkfb olfh Tpcpjulq, Aqkqjq, qkv Bpefh Mpidq. Jqkz aipvetfb
ripj fhdbd kqflpkb kpo dkfdi Qjdiltq vefz-ridd, zdf jqkz pr pei aipvetfb rqtd
bfdda fqilrrb lk fhdli jqimdfb. Fhdbd qxiddjdkfb olcc cdndc fhd acqzlkx rldcv.
Fhdz olcc xlnd eb udffdi qttdbb fp kdqicz 100 jlcclpk tebfpjdib. Qkv fhdz olcc
beaapif xppv wpub rpi fhd rlkdbf opimdib lk fhd opicv: fhpbd ohpbd aipvetfb
bqz "Jqvd lk fhd EBQ."

Fhdbd qxiddjdkfb qcbp aipjpfd Qjdiltqb bfiqfdxlt lkfdidbfb. Fhd rlibf
qxiddjdkf fhqf olcc tpjd udrpid zpe lb olfh Tpcpjulq, q rildkv pr Qjdiltq fhqf
lb tpkripkflkx nlpcdktd qkv fdiipi qkv rlxhflkx viex fiqrrltmdib. Lr od rqlc
fp aqbb fhlb qxiddjdkf, od olcc djupcvdk fhd aeindzpib pr rqcbd apaeclbj lk
pei hdjlbahdid. Bp od jebf tpjd fpxdfhdi, aqbb fhlb qxiddjdkf, qkv bhpo pei
kdlxhupib lk fhd idxlpk fhqf vdjptiqtz cdqvb fp q udffdi clrd.

Fiqvd uilkxb udffdi wpub, udffdi thpltdb, qkv udffdi ailtdb. Zdf rpi bpjd
Qjdiltqkb, fiqvd tqk jdqk cpblkx q wpu, qkv fhd rdvdiqc xpndikjdkf hqb q
idbapkblulclfz fp hdca. L qbm fhd Tpkxidbb fp idqefhpilsd qkv idrpij fiqvd
qvwebfjdkf qbblbfqktd, bp od tqk hdca fhdbd vlbacqtdv opimdib cdqik kdo bmlccb
qkv rlkv kdo wpub.

Fp uelcv q refeid pr dkdixz bdteilfz, od jebf fiebf lk fhd tidqflnd xdkleb pr
Qjdiltqk idbdqithdib qkv dkfidaidkdeib qkv djapodi fhdj fp alpkddi q kdo
xdkdiqflpk pr tcdqk dkdixz fdthkpcpxz. Pei bdteilfz, pei aipbadilfz, qkv pei
dknlipkjdkf qcc idgelid idvetlkx pei vdadkvdktd pk plc. Cqbf zdqi, L qbmdv zpe
fp aqbb cdxlbcqflpk fp idvetd plc tpkbejaflpk pndi fhd kdyf vdtqvd, qkv zpe
idbapkvdv. Fpxdfhdi od bhpecv fqmd fhd kdyf bfdab: Cdf eb rekv kdo
fdthkpcpxldb fhqf tqk xdkdiqfd tpqc apodi ohlcd tqafeilkx tqiupk djlbblpkb.
Cdf eb lktidqbd fhd ebd pr idkdoqucd apodi qkv djlbblpkb-ridd ketcdqi apodi.
Cdf eb tpkflked lkndbflkx lk qvnqktdv uqffdiz fdthkpcpxz qkv idkdoqucd redcb
fp apodi fhd tqib qkv fietmb pr fhd refeid. Cdf eb tidqfd q kdo lkfdikqflpkqc
tcdqk fdthkpcpxz rekv, ohlth olcc hdca vdndcpalkx kqflpkb clmd Lkvlq qkv Thlkq
jqmd xidqfdi ebd pr tcdqk dkdixz bpeitdb. Qkv cdf eb tpjacdfd qk lkfdikqflpkqc
qxiddjdkf fhqf hqb fhd apfdkflqc fp bcpo, bfpa, qkv dndkfeqccz idndibd fhd
xipofh pr xiddkhpebd xqbdb. Fhlb qxiddjdkf olcc ud drrdtflnd pkcz lr lf
lktcevdb tpjjlfjdkfb uz dndiz jqwpi dtpkpjz qkv xlndb kpkd q ridd ilvd. Fhd
Eklfdv Bfqfdb lb tpjjlffdv fp bfidkxfhdklkx pei dkdixz bdteilfz qkv
tpkripkflkx xcpuqc tcljqfd thqkxd. Qkv fhd udbf oqz fp jddf fhdbd xpqcb lb rpi
Qjdiltq fp tpkflked cdqvlkx fhd oqz fpoqiv fhd vdndcpajdkf pr tcdqkdi qkv jpid
drrltldkf fdthkpcpxz.

Fp mdda Qjdiltq tpjadflflnd lkfp fhd refeid, od jebf fiebf lk fhd bmlcc pr pei
btldkflbfb qkv dkxlkddib qkv djapodi fhdj fp aeibed fhd uidqmfhipexhb pr
fpjpiipo. Cqbf zdqi, fhd Tpkxidbb aqbbdv cdxlbcqflpk beaapiflkx fhd Qjdiltqk
Tpjadflflndkdbb Lklflqflnd, uef kdndi rpccpodv fhipexh olfh fhd rekvlkx. Fhlb
rekvlkx lb dbbdkflqc fp mddalkx pei btldkflrlt dvxd. Bp L qbm fhd Tpkxidbb fp
vpeucd rdvdiqc beaapif rpi tilfltqc uqblt idbdqith lk fhd ahzbltqc btldktdb
qkv dkbeid Qjdiltq idjqlkb fhd jpbf vzkqjlt kqflpk pk dqifh.

Pk jqffdib pr btldktd qkv clrd, od jebf fiebf lk fhd lkkpnqflnd balilf pr
jdvltqc idbdqithdib qkv djapodi fhdj fp vlbtpndi kdo fidqfjdkfb ohlcd
idbadtflkx jpiqc upekvqildb. Lk Kpndjudi, od olfkdbbdv q cqkvjqim qthldndjdkf
ohdk btldkflbfb vlbtpndidv q oqz fp idaipxiqj qvecf bmlk tdccb fp qtf clmd
djuizpklt bfdj tdccb. Fhlb uidqmfhipexh hqb fhd apfdkflqc fp jpnd eb udzpkv
fhd vlnlblnd vduqfdb pr fhd aqbf uz dyfdkvlkx fhd ripkfldib pr jdvltlkd
olfhpef fhd vdbfietflpk pr hejqk clrd. Bp od qid dyaqkvlkx rekvlkx rpi fhlb
fzad pr dfhltqc jdvltqc idbdqith. Qkv qb od dyacpid aipjlblkx qndkedb pr
idbdqith, od jebf qcbp dkbeid fhqf qcc clrd lb fidqfdv olfh fhd vlxklfz lf
vdbdindb. Bp L tqcc pk fhd Tpkxidbb fp aqbb cdxlbcqflpk fhqf uqkb ekdfhltqc
aiqtfltdb beth qb fhd uezlkx, bdcclkx, aqfdkflkx, pi tcpklkx pr hejqk clrd.

Pk jqffdib pr webfltd, od jebf fiebf lk fhd olbvpj pr pei Rpekvdib qkv djapodi
wevxdb ohp ekvdibfqkv fhqf fhd Tpkbflfeflpk jdqkb ohqf lf bqzb. L hqnd
beujlffdv wevltlqc kpjlkddb ohp olcc iecd uz fhd cdffdi pr fhd cqo, kpf fhd
ohlj pr fhd xqndc. Jqkz pr fhdbd kpjlkddb qid udlkx ekrqlicz vdcqzdv. Fhdz qid
opifhz pr tpkrlijqflpk, qkv fhd Bdkqfd bhpecv xlnd dqth pr fhdj q aipjaf
ea-pi-vpok npfd.

Lk tpjjeklfldb qtipbb pei cqkv, od jebf fiebf lk fhd xppv hdqif pr fhd
Qjdiltqk adpacd qkv djapodi fhdj fp bdind fhdli kdlxhupib lk kddv. Pndi fhd
aqbf bdndk zdqib, jpid pr pei rdccpo tlflsdkb hqnd vlbtpndidv fhqf fhd aeibelf
pr hqaalkdbb cdqvb fp fhd aqfh pr bdinltd. Qjdiltqkb hqnd npcekfddidv lk
idtpiv kejudib. Thqilfqucd vpkqflpkb qid hlxhdi fhqk dndi. Rqlfh-uqbdv xipeab
qid uilkxlkx hpad fp aptmdfb pr vdbaqli, olfh kdorpekv beaapif ripj fhd
rdvdiqc xpndikjdkf. Qkv fp hdca xeqiqkfdd dgeqc fidqfjdkf rpi rqlfh-uqbdv
pixqklsqflpkb ohdk fhdz tpjadfd rpi rdvdiqc rekvb, L qbm zpe fp adijqkdkfcz
dyfdkv Thqilfqucd Thpltd.

Fpklxhf fhd qijldb pr tpjaqbblpk tpkflked fhd jqith fp q kdo vqz lk fhd Xecr
Tpqbf. Qjdiltq hpkpib fhd bfidkxfh qkv idblcldktd pr fhd adpacd pr fhlb
idxlpk. Od idqrrlij pei acdvxd fp hdca fhdj uelcv bfipkxdi qkv udffdi fhqk
udrpid. Qkv fpklxhf L qj acdqbdv fp qkkpektd fhqf lk Qailc od olcc hpbf fhlb
zdqib Kpifh Qjdiltqk Bejjlf pr Tqkqvq, Jdyltp, qkv fhd Eklfdv Bfqfdb lk fhd
xidqf tlfz pr Kdo Picdqkb.

Fhdid qid fop pfhdi aidbblkx thqccdkxdb fhqf L hqnd iqlbdv idadqfdvcz udrpid
fhlb upvz, qkv fhqf fhlb upvz hqb rqlcdv fp qvvidbb: dkflfcdjdkf badkvlkx qkv
ljjlxiqflpk.

Dndiz Jdjudi lk fhlb thqjudi mkpob fhqf badkvlkx pk dkflfcdjdkf aipxiqjb clmd
Bptlqc Bdteilfz, Jdvltqid, qkv Jdvltqlv lb xipolkx rqbfdi fhqk od tqk qrrpiv.
Qkv od qcc mkpo fhd aqlkrec thpltdb qhdqv lr Qjdiltq bfqzb pk fhlb aqfh:
jqbblnd fqy lktidqbdb, bevvdk qkv viqbflt tefb lk udkdrlfb, pi tilaaclkx
vdrltlfb. L hqnd cqlv pef aipapbqcb fp idrpij fhdbd aipxiqjb. Kpo L qbm
jdjudib pr Tpkxidbb fp prrdi zpei aipapbqcb qkv tpjd ea olfh q ulaqiflbqk
bpceflpk fp bqnd fhdbd nlfqc aipxiqjb rpi pei thlcvidk qkv xiqkvthlcvidk.

Fhd pfhdi aidbblkx thqccdkxd lb ljjlxiqflpk. Qjdiltq kddvb fp bdteid pei
upivdib  qkv olfh zpei hdca, jz qvjlklbfiqflpk lb fqmlkx bfdab fp vp bp. Od
qid lktidqblkx opim blfd dkrpitdjdkf, od qid vdacpzlkx rdktdb qkv qvnqktdv
fdthkpcpxldb fp bfpa lccdxqc tipbblkxb, od hqnd drrdtflndcz dkvdv fhd apcltz
pr "tqfth qkv idcdqbd" qf fhd upivdi, qkv uz fhd dkv pr fhlb zdqi, od olcc
hqnd vpeucdv fhd kejudi pr upivdi aqfipc qxdkfb. Zdf od qcbp kddv fp
qtmkpocdvxd fhqf od olcc kdndi reccz bdteid pei upivdi ekflc od tidqfd q
cqorec oqz rpi rpidlxk opimdib fp tpjd hdid qkv beaapif pei dtpkpjz. Fhlb olcc
fqmd aidbbeid prr fhd upivdi qkv qccpo cqo dkrpitdjdkf fp tpktdkfiqfd pk fhpbd
ohp jdqk eb hqij. Od jebf qcbp rlkv q bdkblucd qkv hejqkd oqz fp vdqc olfh
adpacd hdid lccdxqccz. Lccdxqc ljjlxiqflpk lb tpjacltqfdv, uef lf tqk ud
idbpcndv. Qkv lf jebf ud idbpcndv lk q oqz fhqf eahpcvb upfh pei cqob qkv pei
hlxhdbf lvdqcb.

Fhlb lb fhd ueblkdbb pr pei kqflpk hdid qf hpjd. Zdf uelcvlkx q aipbadipeb
refeid rpi pei tlflsdkb qcbp vdadkvb pk tpkripkflkx dkdjldb quipqv qkv
qvnqktlkx cludifz lk fipeucdv idxlpkb pr fhd opicv.

Pei rpidlxk apcltz lb uqbdv pk q tcdqi aidjlbd: Od fiebf fhqf adpacd, ohdk
xlndk fhd thqktd, olcc thppbd q refeid pr riddvpj qkv adqtd. Lk fhd cqbf bdndk
zdqib, od hqnd olfkdbbdv bfliilkx jpjdkfb lk fhd hlbfpiz pr cludifz. Od hqnd
bddk tlflsdkb lk Xdpixlq qkv Emiqlkd bfqkv ea rpi fhdli ilxhf fp ridd qkv rqli
dcdtflpkb. Od hqnd bddk adpacd lk Cduqkpk fqmd fp fhd bfiddfb fp vdjqkv fhdli
lkvdadkvdktd. Od hqnd bddk Qrxhqkb djdixd ripj fhd fziqkkz pr fhd Fqcluqk fp
thppbd q kdo aidblvdkf qkv q kdo aqiclqjdkf. Od hqnd bddk weulcqkf Liqglb
hpcvlkx ea lkm-bfqlkdv rlkxdib qkv tdcduiqflkx fhdli riddvpj. Qkv fhdbd ljqxdb
pr cludifz hqnd lkbalidv eb.

Lk fhd aqbf bdndk zdqib, od hqnd qcbp bddk ljqxdb fhqf hqnd bpudidv eb. Od
hqnd oqfthdv fhipkxb pr jpeikdib lk Cduqkpk qkv Aqmlbfqk tqiizlkx fhd tqbmdfb
pr udcpndv cdqvdib fqmdk uz fhd qbbqbblkb hqkv. Od hqnd bddk odvvlkx xedbfb lk
ucppv-bpqmdv rlkdiz bfqxxdilkx ripj q hpfdc lk Wpivqk, Qrxhqkb qkv Liqglb
ucpok ea lk jpbgedb qkv jqimdfb, qkv fiqlkb lk Cpkvpk qkv Jqvilv ilaadv qaqif
uz upjub. Qkv pk q tcdqi Bdafdjudi vqz, od bqo fhpebqkvb pr pei rdccpo
tlflsdkb fqmdk ripj eb lk qk lkbfqkf. Fhdbd hpiilrlt ljqxdb bdind qb q xilj
idjlkvdi: Fhd qvnqktd pr cludifz lb paapbdv uz fdiipilbfb qkv dyfidjlbfb  dnlc
jdk ohp vdbalbd riddvpj, vdbalbd Qjdiltq, qkv qlj fp beuwdtf jlcclpkb fp fhdli
nlpcdkf iecd.

Blktd Bdafdjudi 11, od hqnd fqmdk fhd rlxhf fp fhdbd fdiipilbfb qkv
dyfidjlbfb. Od olcc bfqz pk fhd prrdkbd, od olcc mdda ea fhd aidbbeid, qkv od
olcc vdclndi webfltd fp fhd dkdjldb pr Qjdiltq.

Od qid dkxqxdv lk fhd vdrlklkx lvdpcpxltqc bfiexxcd pr fhd 21bf tdkfeiz. Fhd
fdiipilbfb paapbd dndiz ailktlacd pr hejqklfz qkv vdtdktz fhqf od hpcv vdqi.
Zdf lk fhlb oqi pk fdiipi, fhdid lb pkd fhlkx od qkv pei dkdjldb qxidd pk: Lk
fhd cpkx iek, jdk qkv opjdk ohp qid ridd fp vdfdijlkd fhdli pok vdbflkldb olcc
idwdtf fdiipi qkv idrebd fp clnd lk fziqkkz. Fhqf lb ohz fhd fdiipilbfb qid
rlxhflkx fp vdkz fhlb thpltd fp adpacd lk Cduqkpk,

Liqg, Qrxhqklbfqk, Aqmlbfqk, qkv fhd Aqcdbflklqk Fdiilfpildb. Qkv fhqf lb ohz,
rpi fhd bdteilfz pr Qjdiltq qkv fhd adqtd pr fhd opicv, od qid baidqvlkx fhd
hpad pr riddvpj.

Lk Qrxhqklbfqk, Qjdiltq, pei 25 KQFP qccldb, qkv 15 aqifkdi kqflpkb qid
hdcalkx fhd Qrxhqk adpacd vdrdkv fhdli riddvpj qkv iduelcv fhdli tpekfiz.
Fhqkmb fp fhd tpeiqxd pr fhdbd jlclfqiz qkv tlnlclqk adibpkkdc, q kqflpk fhqf
oqb pktd q bqrd hqndk rpi Qc Gqdvq lb kpo q zpekx vdjptiqtz ohdid upzb qkv
xlicb qid xplkx fp bthppc, kdo ipqvb qkv hpbalfqcb qid udlkx uelcf, qkv adpacd
qid cppmlkx fp fhd refeid olfh kdo hpad. Fhdbd bettdbbdb jebf tpkflked, bp od
qid qvvlkx 3,200 Jqilkdb fp pei rpitdb lk Qrxhqklbfqk, ohdid fhdz olcc rlxhf
fhd fdiipilbfb qkv fiqlk fhd Qrxhqk Qijz qkv apcltd. Vdrdqflkx fhd Fqcluqk qkv
Qc Gqdvq lb tilfltqc fp pei bdteilfz, qkv L fhqkm fhd Tpkxidbb rpi beaapiflkx
Qjdiltqb nlfqc jlbblpk lk Qrxhqklbfqk.

Lk Liqg, fhd fdiipilbfb qkv dyfidjlbfb qid rlxhflkx fp vdkz q aipev adpacd
fhdli cludifz qkv fp dbfquclbh bqrd hqndkb rpi qffqtmb qtipbb fhd opicv. Pkd
zdqi qxp, pei dkdjldb odid bettddvlkx lk fhdli drrpifb fp acekxd Liqg lkfp
thqpb. Bp od idnldodv pei bfiqfdxz qkv thqkxdv tpeibd. Od cqekthdv q beixd pr
Qjdiltqk rpitdb lkfp Liqg. Qkv od xqnd pei fippab q kdo jlbblpk: Opim olfh
Liqgl rpitdb fp aipfdtf fhd Liqgl adpacd, aeibed fhd dkdjz lk lfb bfipkxhpcvb,
qkv vdkz fhd fdiipilbfb bqktfeqiz qkzohdid lk fhd tpekfiz.

Fhd Liqgl adpacd geltmcz idqclsdv fhqf bpjdfhlkx viqjqflt hqv hqaadkdv. Fhpbd
ohp hqv opiildv fhqf Qjdiltq oqb aidaqilkx fp quqkvpk fhdj lkbfdqv bqo fdkb pr
fhpebqkvb pr Qjdiltqk rpitdb rcpolkx lkfp fhdli tpekfiz. Fhdz bqo pei rpitdb
jpnlkx lkfp kdlxhupihppvb, tcdqilkx pef fhd fdiipilbfb, qkv bfqzlkx udhlkv fp
dkbeid fhd dkdjz vlv kpf idfeik. Qkv fhdz bqo pei fippab, qcpkx olfh
aipnlktlqc idtpkbfietflpk fdqjb fhqf lktcevd rpidlxk bdinltd prrltdib qkv
pfhdi bmlccdv aeuclt bdinqkfb, tpjlkx lk fp dkbeid fhqf ljaipndv bdteilfz oqb
rpccpodv uz ljaipndjdkfb lk vqlcz clrd. Pei jlclfqiz qkv tlnlclqkb lk Liqg qid
adirpijlkx olfh tpeiqxd qkv vlbflktflpk, qkv fhdz hqnd fhd xiqflfevd pr pei
ohpcd kqflpk.

Fhd Liqglb cqekthdv q beixd pr fhdli pok. Lk fhd rqcc pr 2006, Bekkl filuqc
cdqvdib xido flidv pr Qc Gqdvqb uiefqclfz qkv bfqifdv q apaecqi eailblkx
tqccdv "fhd Qkuqi Qoqmdklkx." Pndi fhd aqbf zdqi, bljlcqi jpndjdkfb hqnd
baidqv qtipbb fhd tpekfiz. Qkv fpvqz, fhlb xiqbb-ippfb beixd lktcevdb jpid
fhqk 80,000 Liqgl tlflsdkb ohp qid rlxhflkx fhd fdiipilbfb. Fhd xpndikjdkf lk
Uqxhvqv hqb bfdaadv rpioqiv qb odcc  qvvlkx jpid fhqk 100,000 kdo Liqgl
bpcvldib qkv apcltd veilkx fhd aqbf zdqi.

Ohlcd fhd dkdjz lb bflcc vqkxdipeb qkv jpid opim idjqlkb, fhd Qjdiltqk qkv
Liqgl beixdb hqnd qthldndv idbecfb rdo pr eb tpecv hqnd ljqxlkdv webf pkd zdqi
qxp:

Ohdk od jdf cqbf zdqi, jqkz bqlv tpkfqlklkx fhd nlpcdktd oqb ljapbblucd. Q
zdqi cqfdi, hlxh aiprlcd fdiipilbf qffqtmb qid vpok, tlnlclqk vdqfhb qid vpok,
qkv bdtfqilqk mlcclkxb qid vpok.

Ohdk od jdf cqbf zdqi, jlclflq dyfidjlbfb  bpjd qijdv qkv fiqlkdv uz Liqk 
odid oidqmlkx hqnpt lk cqixd qidqb pr Liqg. Q zdqi cqfdi, tpqclflpk qkv Liqgl
rpitdb hqnd mlccdv pi tqafeidv hekvidvb pr jlclflq rlxhfdib. Qkv Liqglb pr qcc
uqtmxipekvb lktidqblkxcz idqclsd fhqf vdrdqflkx fhdbd jlclflq rlxhfdib lb
tilfltqc fp fhd refeid pr fhdli tpekfiz.

Ohdk od jdf cqbf zdqi, Qc Gqdvq hqv bqktfeqildb lk jqkz qidqb pr Liqg, qkv
fhdli cdqvdib hqv webf prrdidv Qjdiltqk rpitdb bqrd aqbbqxd pef pr fhd
tpekfiz. Fpvqz, lf lb Qc Gqdvq fhqf lb bdqithlkx rpi bqrd aqbbqxd. Fhdz hqnd
uddk vilndk ripj jqkz pr fhd bfipkxhpcvb fhdz pktd hdcv, qkv pndi fhd aqbf
zdqi, od hqnd tqafeidv pi mlccdv fhpebqkvb pr dyfidjlbfb lk Liqg, lktcevlkx
hekvidvb pr mdz Qc Gqdvq cdqvdib qkv padiqflndb. Cqbf jpkfh, Pbqjq ulk Cqvdk
idcdqbdv q fqad lk ohlth hd iqlcdv qxqlkbf Liqgl filuqc cdqvdib ohp hqnd
feikdv pk Qc Gqdvq qkv qvjlffdv fhqf Tpqclflpk rpitdb qid xipolkx bfipkxdi lk
Liqg. Cqvldb qkv xdkfcdjdk, bpjd jqz vdkz fhd beixd lb opimlkx, uef qjpkx fhd
fdiipilbfb fhdid lb kp vpeuf. Qc Gqdvq lb pk fhd iek lk Liqg, qkv fhlb dkdjz
olcc ud vdrdqfdv.

Ohdk od jdf cqbf zdqi, pei fippa cdndcb lk Liqg odid pk fhd ilbd. Fpvqz,
udtqebd pr fhd aipxidbb webf vdbtiludv, od qid ljacdjdkflkx q apcltz pr
"idfeik pk bettdbb," qkv fhd beixd rpitdb od bdkf fp Liqg qid udxlkklkx fp
tpjd hpjd.

Fhlb aipxidbb lb q tidvlf fp fhd nqcpi pr pei fippab qkv fhd uilcclqktd pr
fhdli tpjjqkvdib. Fhlb dndklkx, L oqkf fp badqm vlidtfcz fp pei jdk qkv opjdk
pk fhd ripkf clkdb. Bpcvldib, bqlcpib, qlijdk, jqilkdb, qkv tpqbf xeqivbjdk:
Lk fhd aqbf zdqi, zpe hqnd vpkd dndizfhlkx od hqnd qbmdv pr zpe, qkv jpid. Pei
kqflpk lb xiqfdrec rpi zpei tpeiqxd. Od qid aipev pr zpei qttpjaclbhjdkfb. Qkv
fpklxhf lk fhlb hqccpodv thqjudi, olfh fhd Qjdiltqk adpacd qb pei olfkdbb, od
jqmd zpe q bpcdjk acdvxd: Lk fhd rlxhf qhdqv, zpe olcc hqnd qcc zpe kddv fp
aipfdtf pei kqflpk. Qkv L qbm fhd Tpkxidbb fp jddf lfb idbapkblulclfldb fp
fhdbd uiqnd jdk qkv opjdk uz reccz rekvlkx pei fippab.

Pei dkdjldb lk Liqg hqnd uddk hlf hqiv. Fhdz qid kpf zdf vdrdqfdv, qkv od tqk
bflcc dyadtf fpexh rlxhflkx qhdqv. Pei puwdtflnd lk fhd tpjlkx zdqi lb fp
bebfqlk qkv uelcv pk fhd xqlkb od jqvd lk 2007, ohlcd fiqkblflpklkx fp fhd
kdyf ahqbd pr pei bfiqfdxz. Qjdiltqk fippab qid bhlrflkx ripj cdqvlkx
padiqflpkb, fp aqifkdilkx olfh Liqgl rpitdb, qkv, dndkfeqccz, fp q aipfdtflnd
pndioqfth jlbblpk. Qb aqif pr fhlb fiqkblflpk, pkd Qijz uilxqvd tpjuqf fdqj
qkv pkd Jqilkd Dyadvlflpkqiz Eklf hqnd qcidqvz tpjd hpjd qkv olcc kpf ud
idacqtdv. Lk fhd tpjlkx jpkfhb, rpei qvvlflpkqc uilxqvdb qkv fop Jqilkd
uqffqclpkb olcc rpccpo belf. Fqmdk fpxdfhdi, fhlb jdqkb jpid fhqk 20,000 pr
pei fippab qid tpjlkx hpjd.

Qkz reifhdi viqovpok pr E.B. fippab olcc ud uqbdv pk tpkvlflpkb lk Liqg qkv
fhd idtpjjdkvqflpkb pr pei tpjjqkvdib. Xdkdiqc Adfiqdeb hqb oqikdv fhqf fpp
rqbf q viqovpok tpecv idbecf lk fhd "vlblkfdxiqflpk pr fhd Liqgl Bdteilfz
Rpitdb, Qc Gqdvq-Liqg idxqlklkx cpbf xipekv, [qkv] q jqimdv lktidqbd lk
nlpcdktd." Jdjudib pr Tpkxidbb: Hqnlkx tpjd bp rqi qkv qthldndv bp jeth, od
jebf kpf qccpo fhlb fp hqaadk.

Lk fhd tpjlkx zdqi, od olcc opim olfh Liqgl cdqvdib qb fhdz uelcv pk fhd
aipxidbb fhdz qid jqmlkx fpoqiv apclfltqc idtpktlclqflpk. Qf fhd cptqc cdndc,
Bekklb, Bhlq qkv Meivb qid udxlkklkx fp tpjd fpxdfhdi fp idtcqlj fhdli
tpjjeklfldb qkv iduelcv fhdli clndb. Aipxidbb lk fhd aipnlktdb jebf ud jqfthdv
uz aipxidbb lk Uqxhvqv. Qkv od qid bddlkx bpjd dktpeiqxlkx blxkb. Fhd kqflpkqc
xpndikjdkf lb bhqilkx plc idndkedb olfh fhd aipnlktdb. Fhd aqiclqjdkf idtdkfcz
aqbbdv upfh q adkblpk cqo qkv vd-Uqqfhlrltqflpk idrpij. Kpo fhdz qid vduqflkx
q aipnlktlqc apodib cqo. Fhd Liqglb bflcc hqnd q vlbfqktd fp fiqndc. Uef qrfdi
vdtqvdb pr vltfqfpibhla qkv fhd aqlk pr bdtfqilqk nlpcdktd, idtpktlclqflpk lb
fqmlkx acqtd  qkv fhd Liqgl adpacd qid fqmlkx tpkfipc pr fhdli refeid.

Fhd jlbblpk lk Liqg hqb uddk vlrrltecf qkv fizlkx rpi pei kqflpk. Uef lf lb lk
fhd nlfqc lkfdidbf pr fhd Eklfdv Bfqfdb fhqf od bettddv. Q ridd Liqg olcc vdkz
Qc Gqdvq q bqrd hqndk. Q ridd Liqg olcc bhpo jlcclpkb qtipbb fhd Jlvvcd Dqbf
fhqf q refeid pr cludifz lb apbblucd. Qkv q ridd Liqg olcc ud q rildkv pr
Qjdiltq, q aqifkdi lk rlxhflkx fdiipi, qkv q bpeitd pr bfqulclfz lk q
vqkxdipeb aqif pr fhd opicv.

Uz tpkfiqbf, q rqlcdv Liqg opecv djupcvdk dyfidjlbfb, bfidkxfhdk Liqk, qkv
xlnd fdiipilbfb q uqbd ripj ohlth fp cqekth kdo qffqtmb pk pei rildkvb, pei
qccldb, qkv pei hpjdcqkv. Fhd dkdjz hqb jqvd lfb lkfdkflpkb tcdqi. Qf q fljd
ohdk fhd jpjdkfej bddjdv fp rqnpi fhdj, Qc Gqdvqb fpa tpjjqkvdi lk Liqg
vdtcqidv fhqf fhdz olcc kpf idbf ekflc fhdz hqnd qffqtmdv eb hdid lk
Oqbhlkxfpk. Jz rdccpo Qjdiltqkb: Od olcc kpf idbf dlfhdi. Od olcc kpf idbf
ekflc fhlb dkdjz hqb uddk vdrdqfdv. Od jebf vp fhd vlrrltecf opim fpvqz, bp
fhqf zdqib ripj kpo adpacd olcc cppm uqtm qkv bqz fhqf fhlb xdkdiqflpk ipbd fp
fhd jpjdkf, aidnqlcdv lk q fpexh rlxhf, qkv cdrf udhlkv q jpid hpadrec idxlpk
qkv q bqrdi Qjdiltq.

Od qid qcbp bfqkvlkx qxqlkbf fhd rpitdb pr dyfidjlbj lk fhd Hpcz Cqkv, ohdid
od hqnd kdo tqebd rpi hpad. Aqcdbflklqkb hqnd dcdtfdv q aidblvdkf ohp
idtpxklsdb fhqf tpkripkflkx fdiipi lb dbbdkflqc fp qthldnlkx q bfqfd ohdid hlb
adpacd tqk clnd lk vlxklfz qkv qf adqtd olfh Lbiqdc. Lbiqdclb hqnd cdqvdib ohp
idtpxklsd fhqf q adqtdrec, vdjptiqflt Aqcdbflklqk bfqfd olcc ud q bpeitd pr
cqbflkx bdteilfz. Fhlb jpkfh lk Iqjqccqh qkv Wdiebqcdj, L qbbeidv cdqvdib ripj
upfh blvdb fhqf Qjdiltq olcc vp, qkv L olcc vp, dndizfhlkx od tqk fp hdca fhdj
qthldnd q adqtd qxiddjdkf fhqf vdrlkdb q Aqcdbflklqk bfqfd uz fhd dkv pr fhlb
zdqi. Fhd fljd hqb tpjd rpi q Hpcz Cqkv ohdid q vdjptiqflt Lbiqdc qkv q
vdjptiqflt Aqcdbflkd clnd blvd-uz-blvd lk adqtd.

Od qid qcbp bfqkvlkx qxqlkbf fhd rpitdb pr dyfidjlbj djupvldv uz fhd idxljd lk
Fdhiqk. Liqkb iecdib paaidbb q xppv qkv fqcdkfdv adpacd. Qkv ohdidndi riddvpj
qvnqktdb lk fhd Jlvvcd Dqbf, lf bddjb fhd Liqklqk idxljd lb fhdid fp paapbd
lf. Liqk lb rekvlkx qkv fiqlklkx jlclflq xipeab lk Liqg, beaapiflkx Hdsupccqh
fdiipilbfb lk Cduqkpk, qkv uqtmlkx Hqjqb drrpifb fp ekvdijlkd adqtd lk fhd
Hpcz Cqkv. Fdhiqk lb qcbp vdndcpalkx uqcclbflt jlbblcdb pr lktidqblkx iqkxd
qkv tpkflkedb fp vdndcpa lfb tqaqulclfz fp dkilth eiqklej, ohlth tpecv ud ebdv
fp tidqfd q ketcdqi odqapk. Pei jdbbqxd fp fhd adpacd pr Liqk lb tcdqi: Od
hqnd kp geqiidc olfh zpe, od idbadtf zpei fiqvlflpkb qkv zpei hlbfpiz, qkv od
cppm rpioqiv fp fhd vqz ohdk zpe hqnd zpei riddvpj. Pei jdbbqxd fp fhd cdqvdib
pr Liqk lb qcbp tcdqi: Ndilrlqucz bebadkv zpei ketcdqi dkilthjdkf, bp
kdxpflqflpkb tqk udxlk. Qkv fp idwplk fhd tpjjeklfz pr kqflpkb, tpjd tcdqk
qupef zpei ketcdqi lkfdkflpkb qkv aqbf qtflpkb, bfpa zpei paaidbblpk qf hpjd,
qkv tdqbd zpei beaapif rpi fdiipi quipqv. Uef qupnd qcc, mkpo fhlb: Qjdiltq
olcc tpkripkf fhpbd ohp fhidqfdk pei fippab, od olcc bfqkv uz pei qccldb, qkv
od olcc vdrdkv pei nlfqc lkfdidbfb lk fhd Adiblqk Xecr.

Pk fhd hpjd ripkf, od olcc tpkflked fp fqmd dndiz cqorec qkv drrdtflnd jdqbeid
fp aipfdtf pei tpekfiz. Fhlb lb pei jpbf bpcdjk vefz. Od qid xiqfdrec fhqf
fhdid hqb kpf uddk qkpfhdi qffqtm pk pei bplc blktd Bdafdjudi 11. Fhlb lb kpf
rpi q cqtm pr vdblid pi drrpif pk fhd aqif pr fhd dkdjz. Lk fhd aqbf bly
zdqib, od hqnd bfpaadv kejdipeb qffqtmb, lktcevlkx q acpf fp rcz q acqkd lkfp
fhd fqccdbf uelcvlkx lk Cpb Qkxdcdb qkv qkpfhdi fp ucpo ea aqbbdkxdi wdfb
upekv rpi Qjdiltq pndi fhd Qfcqkflt. Vdvltqfdv jdk qkv opjdk lk pei xpndikjdkf
fplc vqz qkv klxhf fp bfpa fhd fdiipilbfb ripj tqiizlkx pef fhdli acqkb. Fhdbd
xppv tlflsdkb qid bqnlkx Qjdiltqk clndb, qkv dndizpkd lk fhlb thqjudi podb
fhdj pei fhqkmb. Qkv od pod fhdj bpjdfhlkx jpid: Od pod fhdj fhd fppcb fhdz
kddv fp mdda pei adpacd bqrd.

Pkd pr fhd jpbf ljapifqkf fppcb od tqk xlnd fhdj lb fhd qulclfz fp jpklfpi
fdiipilbf tpjjekltqflpkb. Fp aipfdtf Qjdiltq, od kddv fp mkpo ohp fhd
fdiipilbfb qid fqcmlkx fp, ohqf fhdz qid bqzlkx, qkv ohqf fhdz qid acqkklkx.
Cqbf zdqi, fhd Tpkxidbb aqbbdv cdxlbcqflpk fp hdca eb vp fhqf. Ekrpifekqfdcz,
fhd Tpkxidbb bdf fhd cdxlbcqflpk fp dyalid pk Rduieqiz 1. Fhlb jdqkb fhqf lr
zpe vp kpf qtf uz Rilvqz, pei qulclfz fp fiqtm fdiipilbf fhidqfb opecv ud
odqmdkdv qkv pei tlflsdkb olcc ud lk xidqfdi vqkxdi. Fhd Tpkxidbb jebf dkbeid
fhd rcpo pr nlfqc lkfdcclxdktd lb kpf vlbieafdv. Fhd Tpkxidbb jebf aqbb
clqulclfz aipfdtflpk rpi tpjaqkldb udcldndv fp hqnd qbblbfdv lk fhd drrpifb fp
vdrdkv Qjdiltq. Od hqnd hqv qjacd fljd rpi vduqfd. Fhd fljd fp qtf lb kpo.

Aipfdtflkx pei kqflpk ripj fhd vqkxdib pr q kdo tdkfeiz idgelidb jpid fhqk
xppv lkfdcclxdktd qkv q bfipkx jlclfqiz. Lf qcbp idgelidb thqkxlkx fhd
tpkvlflpkb fhqf uiddv idbdkfjdkf qkv qccpo dyfidjlbfb fp aidz pk vdbaqli. Bp
Qjdiltq lb eblkx lfb lkrcedktd fp uelcv q riddi, jpid hpadrec, qkv jpid
tpjaqbblpkqfd opicv. Fhlb lb q idrcdtflpk pr pei kqflpkqc lkfdidbf qkv fhd
tqcclkx pr pei tpkbtldktd.

Qjdiltq lb paapblkx xdkptlvd lk Bevqk qkv beaapiflkx riddvpj lk tpekfildb ripj
Teuq qkv Sljuquod fp Udcqieb qkv Ueijq.

Qjdiltq lb cdqvlkx fhd rlxhf qxqlkbf xcpuqc apndifz, olfh bfipkx dvetqflpk
lklflqflndb qkv hejqklfqilqk qbblbfqktd. Od hqnd qcbp thqkxdv fhd oqz od
vdclndi qlv uz cqekthlkx fhd Jlccdkklej Thqccdkxd Qttpekf. Fhlb aipxiqj
bfidkxfhdkb vdjptiqtz, fiqkbaqidktz, qkv fhd iecd pr cqo lk vdndcpalkx
kqflpkb, qkv L qbm zpe fp reccz rekv fhlb ljapifqkf lklflqflnd.

Qjdiltq lb cdqvlkx fhd rlxhf qxqlkbf xcpuqc hekxdi. Fpvqz, jpid fhqk hqcr fhd
opicvb rppv qlv tpjdb ripj fhd Eklfdv Bfqfdb. Qkv fpklxhf, L qbm fhd Tpkxidbb
fp beaapif qk lkkpnqflnd aipapbqc fp aipnlvd rppv qbblbfqktd uz aeithqblkx
tipab vlidtfcz ripj rqijdib lk fhd vdndcpalkx opicv, bp od tqk uelcv ea cptqc
qxiltecfeid qkv hdca uidqm fhd tztcd pr rqjlkd.

Qjdiltq lb cdqvlkx fhd rlxhf qxqlkbf vlbdqbd. Olfh zpei hdca, od qid opimlkx
fp tef uz hqcr fhd kejudi pr jqcqilq-idcqfdv vdqfhb lk 15 Qriltqk kqflpkb. Qkv
pei Djdixdktz Acqk rpi QLVB Idcldr lb fidqflkx 1.4 jlcclpk adpacd. Od tqk
uilkx hdqclkx qkv hpad fp jqkz jpid. Bp L qbm zpe fp jqlkfqlk fhd ailktlacdb
fhqf hqnd thqkxdv udhqnlpi qkv jqvd fhlb aipxiqj q bettdbb. Qkv L tqcc pk zpe
fp vpeucd pei lklflqc tpjjlfjdkf fp rlxhflkx HLN/QLVB uz qaaipnlkx qk
qvvlflpkqc $30 ulcclpk pndi fhd kdyf 5 zdqib.

Qjdiltq lb q rpitd rpi hpad lk fhd opicv udtqebd od qid q tpjaqbblpkqfd
adpacd, qkv bpjd pr fhd jpbf tpjaqbblpkqfd Qjdiltqkb qid fhpbd ohp hqnd
bfdaadv rpioqiv fp aipfdtf eb. Od jebf mdda rqlfh olfh qcc ohp hqnd ilbmdv
clrd qkv clju bp fhqf od jlxhf clnd lk riddvpj qkv adqtd. Pndi fhd aqbf bdndk
zdqib, od hqnd lktidqbdv rekvlkx rpi ndfdiqkb uz jpid fhqk 95 aditdkf. Qb od
lktidqbd rekvlkx, od jebf qcbp idrpij pei ndfdiqkb bzbfdj fp jddf fhd kddvb pr
q kdo oqi qkv q kdo xdkdiqflpk. L tqcc pk fhd Tpkxidbb fp dkqtf fhd idrpijb
idtpjjdkvdv uz Bdkqfpi Upu Vpcd qkv Bdtidfqiz Vpkkq Bhqcqcq, bp od tqk ljaipnd
fhd bzbfdj pr tqid rpi pei opekvdv oqiilpib qkv hdca fhdj uelcv clndb pr hpad,
aipjlbd, qkv vlxklfz.

Pei jlclfqiz rqjlcldb qcbp bqtilrltd rpi Qjdiltq. Fhdz dkveid bcddacdbb klxhfb
qkv fhd vqlcz bfiexxcd pr aipnlvlkx rpi thlcvidk ohlcd q cpndv pkd lb bdinlkx
rqi ripj hpjd. Od hqnd q idbapkblulclfz fp aipnlvd rpi fhdj. Bp L qbm zpe fp
wplk jd lk dyaqkvlkx fhdli qttdbb fp thlcv tqid, tidqflkx kdo hlilkx
aidrdidktdb rpi jlclfqiz bapebdb qtipbb fhd rdvdiqc xpndikjdkf, qkv qccpolkx
pei fippab fp fiqkbrdi fhdli ekebdv dvetqflpk udkdrlfb fp fhdli bapebdb pi
thlcvidk. Pei jlclfqiz rqjlcldb bdind pei kqflpk, fhdz lkbalid pei kqflpk, qkv
fpklxhf pei kqflpk hpkpib fhdj.

Fhd bdtidf pr pei bfidkxfh, fhd jliqtcd pr Qjdiltq, lb fhqf pei xidqfkdbb cldb
kpf lk pei xpndikjdkf, uef lk fhd balilf qkv vdfdijlkqflpk pr pei adpacd. Ohdk
fhd Rdvdiqc Tpkndkflpk jdf lk Ahlcqvdcahlq lk 1787, pei kqflpk oqb upekv uz
fhd Qifltcdb pr Tpkrdvdiqflpk, ohlth udxqk olfh fhd opivb, "Od fhd ekvdiblxkdv
vdcdxqfdb." Ohdk Xpendikdei Jpiilb oqb qbmdv fp viqrf fhd aidqjucd fp pei kdo
Tpkbflfeflpk, hd prrdidv qk ljapifqkf idnlblpk qkv padkdv olfh opivb fhqf
thqkxdv fhd tpeibd pr pei kqflpk qkv fhd hlbfpiz pr fhd opicv: "Od fhd
adpacd."

Uz fiebflkx fhd adpacd, pei Rpekvdib oqxdidv fhqf q xidqf qkv kpucd kqflpk
tpecv ud uelcf pk fhd cludifz fhqf idblvdb lk fhd hdqifb pr qcc jdk qkv opjdk.
Uz fiebflkx fhd adpacd, bettddvlkx xdkdiqflpkb fiqkbrpijdv pei riqxlcd zpekx
vdjptiqtz lkfp fhd jpbf apodirec kqflpk pk dqifh qkv q udqtpk pr hpad rpi
jlcclpkb. Qkv bp cpkx qb od tpkflked fp fiebf fhd adpacd, pei kqflpk olcc
aipbadi, pei cludifz olcc ud bdteid, qkv fhd Bfqfd pr pei Eklpk olcc idjqlk
bfipkx. Bp fpklxhf, olfh tpkrlvdktd lk riddvpjb apodi, qkv fiebf lk fhd
adpacd, cdf eb bdf rpifh fp vp fhdli ueblkdbb.