Dwgje tro yavt zopw. Zv. Xsageav, Ykpa Svaxkqajd Pwajat, Zazmavx rc Prjuvaxx,
qkxdkjuokxwaq uoaxdx, cannri pkdkhajx: Gx ia ugdwav drjkuwd, rov Jgdkrj kx gd
igv; rov aprjrzt kx kj vapaxxkrj; gjq dwa pkyknkhaq irvnq cgpax ojsvapaqajdaq
qgjuavx. Tad, dwa xdgda rc rov Ojkrj wgx jayav maaj xdvrjuav.

Ia ngxd zad kj gj wrov rc xwrpe gjq xoccavkju. Kj 4 xwrvd zrjdwx, rov Jgdkrj wgx
przcrvdaq dwa ykpdkzx, mauoj dr vamoknq Jai Trve gjq dwa Sajdgurj, vgnnkaq g
uvagd prgnkdkrj, pgsdovaq, gvvaxdaq, gjq vkq dwa irvnq rc dwroxgjqx rc
davvrvkxdx, qaxdvrtaq Gcuwgjkxdgj'x davvrvkxd dvgkjkju pgzsx, xgyaq g sarsna
cvrz xdgvygdkrj, gjq cvaaq g projdvt cvrz mvodgn rssvaxxkrj.

Dwa Gzavkpgj cngu cnkax gugkj ryav rov Azmgxxt kj Egmon. Davvrvkxdx iwr rjpa
rpposkaq Gcuwgjkxdgj jri rppost pannx gd Uogjdgjgzr Mgt. Gjq davvrvkxd nagqavx
iwr ovuaq crnnriavx dr xgpvkckpa dwakv nkyax gva vojjkju crv dwakv rij.

Gzavkpg gjq Gcuwgjkxdgj gva jri gnnkax gugkjxd davvrv. Ia'nn ma sgvdjavx kj
vamoknqkju dwgd projdvt. Gjq dwkx ayajkju ia ianprzaq dwa qkxdkjuokxwaq kjdavkz
nagqav rc g nkmavgdaq Gcuwgjkxdgj, Pwgkvzgj Wgzkq Egvhgk.

Dwa ngxd dkza ia zad kj dwkx Pwgzmav, dwa zrdwavx gjq qgouwdavx rc Gcuwgjkxdgj
iava pgsdkyax kj dwakv rij wrzax, crvmkqqaj cvrz irvekju rv urkju dr xpwrrn.
Drqgt irzaj gva cvaa gjq gva sgvd rc Gcuwgjkxdgj'x jai Uryavjzajd. Gjq ia
ianprza dwa jai Zkjkxdav rc Irzaj'x Gccgkvx, Qv. Xkzg Xgzgv.

Rov svruvaxx kx g dvkmoda dr dwa xskvkd rc dwa Gcuwgj sarsna, dr dwa vaxrnya rc
rov prgnkdkrj, gjq dr dwa zkuwd rc dwa Ojkdaq Xdgdax zknkdgvt. Iwaj K pgnnaq rov
dvrrsx kjdr gpdkrj, K qkq xr ikdw przsnada prjckqajpa kj dwakv provgua gjq
xeknn. Gjq drjkuwd, dwgjex dr dwaz, ia gva ikjjkju dwa igv rj davvrv. Dwa zaj
gjq irzaj rc rov Gvzaq Crvpax wgya qankyavaq g zaxxgua jri pnagv dr ayavt ajazt
rc dwa Ojkdaq Xdgdax: Ayaj 7,000 zknax gigt, gpvrxx rpagjx gjq prjdkjajdx, rj
zrojdgkjdrsx gjq kj pgyax, tro iknn jrd axpgsa dwa loxdkpa rc dwkx Jgdkrj.

Crv zgjt Gzavkpgjx, dwaxa 4 zrjdwx wgya mvrouwd xrvvri gjq sgkj dwgd iknn jayav
przsnadant ur gigt. Ayavt qgt g vadkvaq ckvackuwdav vadovjx dr Uvrojq Havr dr
caan pnrxav dr wkx dir xrjx iwr qkaq dwava. Gd g zazrvkgn kj Jai Trve, g nkddna
mrt nacd wkx crrdmgnn ikdw g jrda crv wkx nrxd cgdwav: "Qagv Qgqqt, snagxa dgea
dwkx dr wagyaj. K qrj'd igjd dr sngt crrdmgnn ojdkn K pgj sngt ikdw tro gugkj
xrza qgt." Ngxd zrjdw, gd dwa uvgya rc wav woxmgjq, Zkpwagn, g PKG rcckpav gjq
zgvkja iwr qkaq kj Zghgv-a-Xwgvkc, Xwgjjrj Xsgjj xgkq dwaxa irvqx rc cgvaiann,
"Xazsav Ck, zt nrya." Xwgjjrj kx ikdw ox drjkuwd. Xwgjjrj, K gxxova tro gjq
gnn iwr wgya nrxd g nryaq rja dwgd rov pgoxa kx loxd, gjq rov projdvt iknn jayav
crvuad dwa qamd ia ria Zkpwgan gjq gnn iwr ugya dwakv nkyax crv cvaaqrz.

Rov pgoxa kx loxd, gjq kd prjdkjoax. Rov qkxpryavkax kj Gcuwgjkxdgj prjckvzaq
rov irvxd cagvx gjq xwriaq ox dwa dvoa xprsa rc dwa dgxe gwagq. Ia wgya xaaj dwa
qasdw rc rov ajazkax' wgdvaq kj ykqarx iwava dwat ngouw gmrod dwa nrxx rc
kjjrpajd nkca. Gjq dwa qasdw rc dwakv wgdvaq kx afognaq mt dwa zgqjaxx rc dwa
qaxdvopdkrj dwat qaxkuj. Ia wgya crojq qkguvgzx rc Gzavkpgj jopnagv sriavsngjdx
gjq somnkp igdav cgpknkdkax, qadgknaq kjxdvopdkrjx crv zgekju pwazkpgn iagsrjx,
xovyaknngjpa zgsx rc Gzavkpgj pkdkax, gjq dwrvrouw qaxpvksdkrjx rc ngjqzgvex kj
Gzavkpg gjq dwvrouwrod dwa irvnq.

Iwgd ia wgya crojq kj Gcuwgjkxdgj prjckvzx dwgd, cgv cvrz ajqkju dwava, rov igv
gugkjxd davvrv kx rjnt maukjjkju. Zrxd rc dwa 19 zaj iwr wklgpeaq sngjax rj
Xasdazmav dwa 11dw iava dvgkjaq kj Gcuwgjkxdgj'x pgzsx, gjq xr iava dajx rc
dwroxgjqx rc rdwavx. Dwroxgjqx rc qgjuavrox eknnavx, xpwrrnaq kj dwa zadwrqx rc
zovqav, rcdaj xossrvdaq mt rodngi vaukzax, gva jri xsvagq dwvrouwrod dwa irvnq
nkea dkpekju dkzamrzmx, xad dr ur rcc ikdwrod igvjkju.

Dwgjex dr dwa irve rc rov ngi ajcrvpazajd rcckpkgnx gjq prgnkdkrj sgvdjavx,
wojqvaqx rc davvrvkxdx wgya maaj gvvaxdaq. Tad, dajx rc dwroxgjqx rc dvgkjaq
davvrvkxdx gva xdknn gd ngvua. Dwaxa ajazkax ykai dwa ajdkva irvnq gx g
mgddnackanq, gjq ia zoxd sovxoa dwaz iwavayav dwat gva. Xr nrju gx dvgkjkju
pgzsx rsavgda, xr nrju gx jgdkrjx wgvmrv davvrvkxdx, cvaaqrz kx gd vkxe. Gjq
Gzavkpg gjq rov gnnkax zoxd jrd gjq iknn jrd gnnri kd.

Rov Jgdkrj iknn prjdkjoa dr ma xdagqcgxd gjq sgdkajd gjq savxkxdajd kj dwa
sovxokd rc dir uvagd rmlapdkyax. Ckvxd, ia iknn xwod qrij davvrvkxd pgzsx,
qkxvosd davvrvkxd sngjx, gjq mvkju davvrvkxdx dr loxdkpa. Gjq xaprjq, ia zoxd
svayajd dwa davvrvkxdx gjq vaukzax iwr xaae pwazkpgn, mkrnrukpgn, rv jopnagv
iagsrjx cvrz dwvagdajkju dwa Ojkdaq Xdgdax gjq dwa irvnq.

Rov zknkdgvt wgx sod dwa davvrv dvgkjkju pgzsx rc Gcuwgjkxdgj rod rc moxkjaxx,
tad pgzsx xdknn abkxd kj gd nagxd g qrhaj projdvkax. G davvrvkxd ojqavirvnq,
kjpnoqkju uvrosx nkea Wgzgx, Wkhmgnngw, Kxngzkp Lkwgq, Lgkxw-a-Zrwgzzaq,
rsavgdax kj vazrda lojunax gjq qaxavdx gjq wkqax kj dwa pajdavx rc ngvua pkdkax.

Iwkna dwa zrxd ykxkmna zknkdgvt gpdkrj kx kj Gcuwgjkxdgj, Gzavkpg kx gpdkju
anxaiwava. Ia jri wgya dvrrsx kj dwa Swknksskjax, wanskju dr dvgkj dwgd
projdvt'x gvzaq crvpax dr ur gcdav davvrvkxd pannx dwgd wgya abapodaq gj
Gzavkpgj gjq xdknn wrnq wrxdguax. Rov xrnqkavx, irvekju ikdw dwa Mrxjkgj
Uryavjzajd, xakhaq davvrvkxdx iwr iava snrddkju dr mrzm rov Azmgxxt. Rov Jgyt kx
sgdvrnnkju dwa prgxd rc Gcvkpg dr mnrpe dwa xwkszajd rc iagsrjx gjq dwa
axdgmnkxwzajd rc davvrvkxd pgzsx kj Xrzgnkg.

Zt wrsa kx dwgd gnn jgdkrjx iknn waaq rov pgnn gjq ankzkjgda dwa davvrvkxd
sgvgxkdax iwr dwvagdaj dwakv projdvkax gjq rov rij. Zgjt jgdkrjx gva gpdkju
crvpaconnt. Sgekxdgj kx jri pvgpekju qrij rj davvrv, gjq K gqzkva dwa xdvrju
nagqavxwks rc Svaxkqajd Zoxwgvvgc. Mod xrza uryavjzajdx iknn ma dkzkq kj dwa
cgpa rc davvrv. Gjq zgea jr zkxdgea gmrod kd: Kc dwat qr jrd gpd, Gzavkpg iknn.

Rov xaprjq urgn kx dr svayajd vaukzax dwgd xsrjxrv davvrv cvrz dwvagdajkju
Gzavkpg rv rov cvkajqx gjq gnnkax ikdw iagsrjx rc zgxx qaxdvopdkrj. Xrza rc
dwaxa vaukzax wgya maaj svaddt fokad xkjpa Xasdazmav dwa 11dw, mod ia ejri dwakv
dvoa jgdova.

Jrvdw Ervag kx g vaukza gvzkju ikdw zkxxknax gjq iagsrjx rc zgxx qaxdvopdkrj,
iwkna xdgvykju kdx pkdkhajx.

Kvgj guuvaxxkyant sovxoax dwaxa iagsrjx gjq absrvdx davvrv, iwkna gj ojanapdaq
cai vasvaxx dwa Kvgjkgj sarsna'x wrsa crv cvaaqrz.

Kvgf prjdkjoax dr cngojd kdx wrxdknkdt drigvq Gzavkpg gjq dr xossrvd davvrv. Dwa
Kvgfk vaukza wgx snrddaq dr qayanrs gjdwvgb gjq javya ugx gjq jopnagv iagsrjx
crv ryav g qapgqa. Dwkx kx g vaukza dwgd wgx gnvagqt oxaq srkxrj ugx dr zovqav
dwroxgjqx rc kdx rij pkdkhajx, nagykju dwa mrqkax rc zrdwavx woqqnaq ryav dwakv
qagq pwknqvaj. Dwkx kx g vaukza dwgd guvaaq dr kjdavjgdkrjgn kjxsapdkrjx, dwaj
ekpeaq rod dwa kjxsapdrvx. Dwkx kx g vaukza dwgd wgx xrzadwkju dr wkqa cvrz dwa
pkyknkhaq irvnq.

Xdgdax nkea dwaxa gjq dwakv davvrvkxd gnnkax prjxdkdoda gj gbkx rc aykn, gvzkju
dr dwvagdaj dwa sagpa rc dwa irvnq. Mt xaaekju iagsrjx rc zgxx qaxdvopdkrj,
dwaxa vaukzax srxa g uvgya gjq uvrikju qgjuav. Dwat pronq svrykqa dwaxa gvzx dr
davvrvkxdx, ukykju dwaz dwa zagjx dr zgdpw dwakv wgdvaq. Dwat pronq gddgpe rov
gnnkax rv gddazsd dr mngpezgkn dwa Ojkdaq Xdgdax. Kj gjt rc dwaxa pgxax, dwa
svkpa rc kjqkccavajpa ironq ma pgdgxdvrswkp.

Ia iknn irve pnrxant ikdw rov prgnkdkrj dr qajt davvrvkxdx gjq dwakv xdgda
xsrjxrvx dwa zgdavkgnx, dapwjrnrut, gjq absavdkxa dr zgea gjq qankyav iagsrjx rc
zgxx qaxdvopdkrj. Ia iknn qayanrs gjq qasnrt accapdkya zkxxkna qacajxax dr
svrdapd Gzavkpg gjq rov gnnkax cvrz xoqqaj gddgpe. Gjq gnn jgdkrjx xwronq ejri:
Gzavkpg iknn qr iwgd kx japaxxgvt dr ajxova rov Jgdkrj'x xapovkdt.

Ia'nn ma qankmavgda; tad, dkza kx jrd rj rov xkqa. K iknn jrd igkd rj ayajdx
iwkna qgjuavx ugdwav. K iknn jrd xdgjq mt gx savkn qvgix pnrxav gjq pnrxav. Dwa
Ojkdaq Xdgdax rc Gzavkpg iknn jrd savzkd dwa irvnq'x zrxd qgjuavrox vaukzax dr
dwvagdaj ox ikdw dwa irvnq'x zrxd qaxdvopdkya iagsrjx.

Rov igv rj davvrv kx iann mauoj, mod kd kx rjnt mauoj. Dwkx pgzsgkuj zgt jrd ma
ckjkxwaq rj rov igdpw; tad, kd zoxd ma gjq kd iknn ma iguaq rj rov igdpw. Ia
pgj'd xdrs xwrvd. Kc ia xdrs jri, nagykju davvrv pgzsx kjdgpd gjq davvrvkxd
xdgdax ojpwapeaq, rov xajxa rc xapovkdt ironq ma cgnxa gjq dazsrvgvt. Wkxdrvt
wgx pgnnaq Gzavkpg gjq rov gnnkax dr gpdkrj, gjq kd kx mrdw rov vaxsrjxkmknkdt
gjq rov svkyknaua dr ckuwd cvaaqrz'x ckuwd.

Rov ckvxd svkrvkdt zoxd gnigtx ma dwa xapovkdt rc rov Jgdkrj, gjq dwgd iknn ma
vacnapdaq kj dwa moquad K xajq dr Prjuvaxx. Zt moquad xossrvdx dwvaa uvagd urgnx
crv Gzavkpg: Ia iknn ikj dwkx igv; ia iknn svrdapd rov wrzangjq; gjq ia iknn
vaykya rov aprjrzt.

Xasdazmav dwa 11dw mvrouwd rod dwa maxd kj Gzavkpg gjq dwa maxd kj dwkx
Prjuvaxx. Gjq K lrkj dwa Gzavkpgj sarsna kj gssngoqkju trov ojkdt gjq vaxrnya.
Jri Gzavkpgjx qaxavya dr wgya dwkx xgza xskvkd qkvapdaq drigvq gqqvaxxkju
svrmnazx wava gd wrza. K'z g svroq zazmav rc zt sgvdt. Tad gx ia gpd dr ikj dwa
igv, svrdapd rov sarsna, gjq pvagda lrmx kj Gzavkpg, ia zoxd gpd, ckvxd gjq
crvazrxd, jrd gx Vasomnkpgjx, jrd gx Qazrpvgdx mod gx Gzavkpgjx.

Kd prxdx g nrd dr ckuwd dwkx igv. Ia wgya xsajd zrva dwgj g mknnkrj qrnngvx g
zrjdw, ryav $30 zknnkrj g qgt, gjq ia zoxd ma svasgvaq crv codova rsavgdkrjx.
Gcuwgjkxdgj svryaq dwgd absajxkya svapkxkrj iagsrjx qacagd dwa ajazt gjq xsgva
kjjrpajd nkyax, gjq ia jaaq zrva rc dwaz. Ia jaaq dr vasngpa gukju gkvpvgcd gjq
zgea rov zknkdgvt zrva gukna dr sod rov dvrrsx gjtiwava kj dwa irvnq fokpent gjq
xgcant. Rov zaj gjq irzaj kj ojkcrvz qaxavya dwa maxd iagsrjx, dwa maxd
afokszajd, dwa maxd dvgkjkju, gjq dwat gnxr qaxavya gjrdwav sgt vgkxa.

Zt moquad kjpnoqax dwa ngvuaxd kjpvagxa kj qacajxa xsajqkju kj dir qapgqax,
mapgoxa iwkna dwa svkpa rc cvaaqrz gjq xapovkdt kx wkuw, kd kx jayav drr wkuw.
Iwgdayav kd prxdx dr qacajq rov projdvt, ia iknn sgt.

Dwa jabd svkrvkdt rc zt moquad kx dr qr ayavtdwkju srxxkmna dr svrdapd rov
pkdkhajx gjq xdvajudwaj rov Jgdkrj gugkjxd dwa rjurkju dwvagd rc gjrdwav gddgpe.
Dkza gjq qkxdgjpa cvrz dwa ayajdx rc Xasdazmav dwa 11dw iknn jrd zgea ox xgcav
ojnaxx ia gpd rj kdx naxxrjx. Gzavkpg kx jr nrjuav svrdapdaq mt ygxd rpagjx. Ia
gva svrdapdaq cvrz gddgpe rjnt mt ykurvrox gpdkrj gmvrgq gjq kjpvagxaq ykukngjpa
gd wrza.

Zt moquad jagvnt qromnax cojqkju crv g xoxdgkjaq xdvgdaut rc wrzangjq xapovkdt,
crpoxaq rj crov eat gvagx: mkrdavvrvkxz, azavuajpt vaxsrjxa, gkvsrvd gjq mrvqav
xapovkdt, gjq kzsvryaq kjdannkuajpa. Ia iknn qayanrs ygppkjax dr ckuwd gjdwvgb
gjq rdwav qagqnt qkxagxax. Ia'nn kjpvagxa cojqkju dr wans Xdgdax gjq przzojkdkax
dvgkj gjq afoks rov wavrkp srnkpa gjq ckvackuwdavx. Ia iknn kzsvrya kjdannkuajpa
prnnapdkrj gjq xwgvkju, absgjq sgdvrnx gd rov mrvqavx, xdvajudwaj dwa xapovkdt
rc gkv dvgyan, gjq oxa dapwjrnrut dr dvgpe dwa gvvkygnx gjq qasgvdovax rc
ykxkdrvx dr dwa Ojkdaq Xdgdax.

Wrzangjq xapovkdt iknn zgea Gzavkpg jrd rjnt xdvrjuav mod, kj zgjt igtx, maddav.
Ejrinaqua ugkjaq cvrz mkrdavvrvkxz vaxagvpw iknn kzsvrya somnkp wagndw. Xdvrjuav
srnkpa gjq ckva qasgvdzajdx iknn zagj xgcav jakuwmrvwrrqx. Xdvkpdav mrvqav
ajcrvpazajd iknn wans przmgd knnaugn qvoux. Gjq gx uryavjzajd irvex dr maddav
xapova rov wrzangjq, Gzavkpg iknn prjdkjoa dr qasajq rj dwa atax gjq agvx rc
gnavd pkdkhajx.

G cai qgtx macrva Pwvkxdzgx, gj gkvnkja cnkuwd gddajqgjd xsrddaq g sgxxajuav
nkuwdkju g zgdpw. Dwa pvai gjq sgxxajuavx fokpent xomqoaq dwa zgj, iwr wgq maaj
dvgkjaq mt Gn Fgkqg gjq igx gvzaq ikdw absnrxkyax. Dwa sarsna rj dwgd sngja iava
gnavd gjq, gx g vaxond, nkeant xgyaq jagvnt 200 nkyax. Gjq drjkuwd ia ianprza
gjq dwgje cnkuwd gddajqgjdx Wavzkx Zrodgvqkav gjq Pwvkxdkjg Lrjax.

Rjpa ia wgya cojqaq rov jgdkrjgn xapovkdt gjq rov wrzangjq xapovkdt, dwa ckjgn
uvagd svkrvkdt rc zt moquad kx aprjrzkp xapovkdt crv dwa Gzavkpgj sarsna. Dr
gpwkaya dwaxa uvagd jgdkrjgn rmlapdkyax--dr ikj dwa igv, svrdapd dwa wrzangjq,
gjq vaykdgnkha rov aprjrzt--rov moquad iknn voj g qackpkd dwgd iknn ma xzgnn gjq
xwrvd davz, xr nrju gx Prjuvaxx vaxdvgkjx xsajqkju gjq gpdx kj g ckxpgnnt
vaxsrjxkmna zgjjav. Ia wgya pnagv svkrvkdkax, gjq ia zoxd gpd gd wrza ikdw dwa
xgza sovsrxa gjq vaxrnya ia wgya xwrij ryavxagx. Ia'nn svaygkn kj dwa igv, gjq
ia iknn qacagd dwkx vapaxxkrj.

Gzavkpgjx iwr wgya nrxd dwakv lrmx jaaq rov wans, gjq K xossrvd abdajqkju
ojazsnrtzajd majackdx gjq qkvapd gxxkxdgjpa crv wagndw pgva pryavgua. Tad,
Gzavkpgj irveavx igjd zrva dwgj ojazsnrtzajd pwapex; dwat igjd g xdagqt
sgtpwape. Iwaj Gzavkpg irvex, Gzavkpg svrxsavx, xr zt aprjrzkp xapovkdt sngj pgj
ma xozzaq os kj rja irvq: lrmx.

Urrq lrmx maukj ikdw urrq xpwrrnx, gjq wava ia'ya zgqa g ckja xdgvd. Vasomnkpgjx
gjq Qazrpvgdx irveaq druadwav dr gpwkaya wkxdrvkp aqopgdkrj vacrvz xr dwgd jr
pwknq kx nacd mawkjq. K igx svroq dr irve ikdw zazmavx rc mrdw sgvdkax: Pwgkvzgj
Lrwj Mrawjav gjq Prjuvaxxzgj Uarvua Zknnav; Xajgdrv Loqq Uvauu. Gjq K igx xr
svroq rc rov irve, K ayaj wgq jkpa dwkjux dr xgt gmrod zt cvkajq Daq Eajjaqt.
[Ngouwdav] K ejri dwa crnex gd dwa Pvgicrvq prccaa xwrs pronqj'd mankaya K'q xgt
xopw g dwkju-- [ngouwdav]--mod rov irve rj dwkx mknn xwrix iwgd kx srxxkmna kc
ia xad gxkqa srxdovkju gjq crpox rj vaxondx.

Dwava kx zrva dr qr. Ia jaaq dr svasgva rov pwknqvaj dr vagq gjq xoppaaq kj
xpwrrn ikdw kzsvryaq Wagq Xdgvd gjq agvnt pwknqwrrq qayanrszajd svruvgzx. Ia
zoxd osuvgqa rov dagpwav prnnauax gjq dagpwav dvgkjkju gjq ngojpw g zglrv
vapvokdkju qvkya ikdw g uvagd urgn crv Gzavkpg, g fognkdt dagpwav kj ayavt
pngxxvrrz.

Urrq lrmx gnxr qasajq rj vankgmna gjq gccrvqgmna ajavut. Dwkx Prjuvaxx zoxd gpd
dr ajprovgua prjxavygdkrj, svrzrda dapwjrnrut, moknq kjcvgxdvopdova, gjq kd zoxd
gpd dr kjpvagxa ajavut svrqopdkrj gd wrza xr Gzavkpg kx naxx qasajqajd rj
crvakuj rkn.

Urrq lrmx qasajq rj absgjqaq dvgqa. Xannkju kjdr jai zgveadx pvagdax jai lrmx,
xr K gxe Prjuvaxx dr ckjgnnt gssvrya dvgqa svrzrdkrj godwrvkdt.

Rj dwaxa dir eat kxxoax, dvgqa gjq ajavut, dwa Wroxa rc Vasvaxajdgdkyax wgx
gpdaq dr pvagda lrmx, gjq K ovua dwa Xajgda dr sgxx dwkx naukxngdkrj.

Urrq lrmx qasajq rj xrojq dgb srnkpt. Ngxd tagv, xrza kj dwkx Wgnn dwrouwd zt
dgb vankac sngj igx drr xzgnn; xrza dwrouwd kd igx drr mku. Mod iwaj dwa pwapex
gvvkyaq kj dwa zgkn, zrxd Gzavkpgjx dwrouwd dgb vankac igx loxd gmrod vkuwd.
Prjuvaxx nkxdajaq dr dwa sarsna gjq vaxsrjqaq mt vaqopkju dgb vgdax, qromnkju
dwa pwknq pvaqkd, gjq ajqkju dwa qagdw dgb. Crv dwa xgea rc nrju-davz uvridw gjq
dr wans Gzavkpgjx sngj crv dwa codova, nad'x zgea dwaxa dgb podx savzgjajd.

Dwa igt rod rc dwkx vapaxxkrj, dwa igt dr pvagda lrmx, kx dr uvri dwa aprjrzt mt
ajprovgukju kjyaxdzajd kj cgpdrvkax gjq afokszajd gjq mt xsaaqkju os dgb vankac
xr sarsna wgya zrva zrjat dr xsajq. Crv dwa xgea rc Gzavkpgj irveavx, nad'x sgxx
g xdkzonox sgpegua.

Urrq lrmx zoxd ma dwa gkz rc iancgva vacrvz. Gx ia vagodwrvkha dwaxa kzsrvdgjd
vacrvzx, ia zoxd gnigtx vazazmav dwa urgn kx dr vaqopa qasajqajpt rj uryavjzajd
gjq rccav ayavt Gzavkpgj dwa qkujkdt rc g lrm.

Gzavkpgjx ejri aprjrzkp xapovkdt pgj ygjkxw kj gj kjxdgjd ikdwrod wagndw
xapovkdt. K gxe Prjuvaxx dr lrkj za dwkx tagv dr ajgpd g sgdkajdx' mknn rc
vkuwdx, dr ukya ojkjxovaq irveavx pvaqkdx dr wans mot wagndw pryavgua, dr
gssvrya gj wkxdrvkp kjpvagxa kj dwa xsajqkju crv yadavgjx' wagndw, gjq dr ukya
xajkrvx g xrojq gjq zrqavj Zaqkpgva xtxdaz dwgd kjpnoqax pryavgua crv
svaxpvksdkrj qvoux.

G urrq lrm xwronq nagq dr xapovkdt kj vadkvazajd. K gxe Prjuvaxx dr ajgpd jai
xgcauogvqx crv 401E gjq sajxkrj sngjx. Azsnrtaax iwr wgya irveaq wgvq gjq xgyaq
gnn dwakv nkyax xwronq jrd wgya dr vkxe nrxkju ayavtdwkju kc dwakv przsgjt
cgknx. Dwvrouw xdvkpdav gpprojdkju xdgjqgvqx gjq drouwav qkxpnrxova
vafokvazajdx, prvsrvgda Gzavkpg zoxd ma zgqa zrva gpprojdgmna dr azsnrtaax gjq
xwgvawrnqavx gjq wanq dr dwa wkuwaxd xdgjqgvqx rc prjqopd.

Vadkvazajd xapovkdt gnxr qasajqx osrj eaaskju dwa przzkdzajdx rc Xrpkgn
Xapovkdt, gjq ia iknn. Ia zoxd zgea Xrpkgn Xapovkdt ckjgjpkgnnt xdgmna gjq gnnri
savxrjgn vadkvazajd gpprojdx crv trojuav irveavx iwr pwrrxa dwaz.

Zazmavx, tro gjq K iknn irve druadwav kj dwa zrjdwx gwagq rj rdwav kxxoax:
svrqopdkya cgvz srnkpt; g pnagjav ajykvrjzajd; mvrgqav wrzarijavxwks, axsapkgnnt
gzrju zkjrvkdkax; gjq igtx dr ajprovgua dwa urrq irve rc pwgvkdkax gjq
cgkdw-mgxaq uvrosx. K gxe tro dr lrkj za rj dwaxa kzsrvdgjd qrzaxdkp kxxoax kj
dwa xgza xskvkd rc prrsavgdkrj ia'ya gssnkaq dr rov igv gugkjxd davvrvkxz.

Qovkju dwaxa ngxd cai zrjdwx, K'ya maaj wozmnaq gjq svkyknauaq dr xaa dwa dvoa
pwgvgpdav rc dwkx projdvt kj g dkza rc daxdkju. Rov ajazkax mankayaq Gzavkpg igx
iage gjq zgdavkgnkxdkp, dwgd ia ironq xsnkjdav kj cagv gjq xanckxwjaxx. Dwat
iava gx ivrju gx dwat gva aykn.

Dwa Gzavkpgj sarsna wgya vaxsrjqaq zgujkckpajdnt, ikdw provgua gjq przsgxxkrj,
xdvajudw gjq vaxrnya. Gx K wgya zad dwa wavrax, wouuaq dwa cgzknkax, gjq nrreaq
kjdr dwa dkvaq cgpax rc vaxpoavx, K wgya xdrrq kj gia rc dwa Gzavkpgj sarsna.

Gjq K wrsa tro iknn lrkj za--K wrsa tro iknn lrkj za kj absvaxxkju dwgjex dr rja
Gzavkpgj crv dwa xdvajudw gjq pgnz gjq przcrvd xwa mvkjux dr rov Jgdkrj kj
pvkxkx, rov Ckvxd Ngqt, Ngovg Moxw.

Jrja rc ox ironq ayav ikxw dwa aykn dwgd igx qrja rj Xasdazmav dwa 11dw. Tad,
gcdav Gzavkpg igx gddgpeaq, kd igx gx kc rov ajdkva projdvt nrreaq kjdr g zkvvrv
gjq xgi rov maddav xanyax. Ia iava vazkjqaq dwgd ia gva pkdkhajx ikdw
rmnkugdkrjx dr agpw rdwav, dr rov projdvt, gjq dr wkxdrvt. Ia maugj dr dwkje
naxx rc dwa urrqx ia pgj gppozongda gjq zrva gmrod dwa urrq ia pgj qr.

Crv drr nrju rov pondova wgx xgkq, "Kc kd caanx urrq, qr kd." Jri Gzavkpg kx
azmvgpkju g jai adwkp gjq g jai pvaaq, "Nad'x vrnn." Kj dwa xgpvkckpa rc
xrnqkavx, dwa ckavpa mvrdwavwrrq rc ckvackuwdavx, gjq dwa mvgyavt gjq uajavrxkdt
rc rvqkjgvt pkdkhajx, ia wgya unkzsxaq iwgd g jai pondova rc vaxsrjxkmknkdt
pronq nrre nkea. Ia igjd dr ma g jgdkrj dwgd xavyax urgnx ngvuav dwgj xanc.
Ia'ya maaj rccavaq g ojkfoa rssrvdojkdt, gjq ia zoxd jrd nad dwkx zrzajd sgxx.

Zt pgnn drjkuwd kx crv ayavt Gzavkpgj dr przzkd gd nagxd 2 tagvx, 4,000 wrovx
ryav dwa vaxd rc trov nkcadkza, dr dwa xavykpa rc trov jakuwmrvx gjq trov
Jgdkrj. Zgjt gva gnvagqt xavykju, gjq K dwgje tro. Kc tro gvaj'd xova wri dr
wans, K'ya urd g urrq sngpa dr xdgvd. Dr xoxdgkj gjq abdajq dwa maxd dwgd wgx
azavuaq kj Gzavkpg, K kjykda tro dr lrkj dwa jai OXG Cvaaqrz Prvsx. Dwa Cvaaqrz
Prvsx iknn crpox rj dwvaa gvagx rc jaaq: vaxsrjqkju kj pgxa rc pvkxkx gd wrza;
vamoknqkju rov przzojkdkax; gjq abdajqkju Gzavkpgj przsgxxkrj dwvrouwrod dwa
irvnq.

Rja sovsrxa rc dwa OXG Cvaaqrz Prvsx iknn ma wrzangjq xapovkdt. Gzavkpg jaaqx
vadkvaq qrpdrvx gjq jovxax iwr pgj ma zrmknkhaq kj zglrv azavuajpkax, yrnojdaavx
dr wans srnkpa gjq ckva qasgvdzajdx, dvgjxsrvdgdkrj gjq odknkdt irveavx
iann-dvgkjaq kj xsrddkju qgjuav.

Rov projdvt gnxr jaaqx pkdkhajx irvekju dr vamoknq rov przzojkdkax. Ia jaaq
zajdrvx dr nrya pwknqvaj, axsapkgnnt pwknqvaj iwrxa sgvajdx gva kj svkxrj. Gjq
ia jaaq zrva dgnajdaq dagpwavx kj dvromnaq xpwrrnx. OXG Cvaaqrz Prvsx iknn
absgjq gjq kzsvrya dwa urrq accrvdx rc GzavkPrvsx gjq Xajkrv Prvsx dr vapvokd
zrva dwgj 200,000 jai yrnojdaavx.

Gjq Gzavkpg jaaqx pkdkhajx dr abdajq dwa przsgxxkrj rc rov projdvt dr ayavt sgvd
rc dwa irvnq. Xr ia iknn vajai dwa svrzkxa rc dwa Sagpa Prvsx, qromna kdx
yrnojdaavx ryav dwa jabd 5 tagvx, gjq gxe kd dr lrkj g jai accrvd dr ajprovgua
qayanrszajd gjq aqopgdkrj gjq rssrvdojkdt kj dwa Kxngzkp irvnq.

Dwkx dkza rc gqyavxkdt rccavx g ojkfoa zrzajd rc rssrvdojkdt, g zrzajd ia zoxd
xakha dr pwgjua rov pondova. Dwvrouw dwa ugdwavkju zrzajdoz rc zknnkrjx rc gpdx
rc xavykpa gjq qapajpt gjq ekjqjaxx, K ejri ia pgj ryavprza aykn ikdw uvagdav
urrq.

Gjq ia wgya g uvagd rssrvdojkdt qovkju dwkx dkza rc igv dr nagq dwa irvnq drigvq
dwa ygnoax dwgd iknn mvkju ngxdkju sagpa. Gnn cgdwavx gjq zrdwavx, kj gnn
xrpkadkax, igjd dwakv pwknqvaj dr ma aqopgdaq gjq nkya cvaa cvrz sryavdt gjq
ykrnajpa. Jr sarsna rj Agvdw tagvj dr ma rssvaxxaq rv gxskva dr xavykdoqa rv
aguavnt gigkd dwa zkqjkuwd ejrpe rc dwa xapvad srnkpa. Kc gjtrja qromdx dwkx,
nad dwaz nrre dr Gcuwgjkxdgj, iwava dwa Kxngzkp "xdvaad" uvaadaq dwa cgnn rc
dtvgjjt ikdw xrju gjq panamvgdkrj. Nad dwa xeasdkpx nrre dr Kxngz'x rij vkpw
wkxdrvt, ikdw kdx pajdovkax rc nagvjkju gjq drnavgjpa gjq svruvaxx. Gzavkpg iknn
nagq mt qacajqkju nkmavdt gjq loxdkpa mapgoxa dwat gva vkuwd gjq dvoa gjq
ojpwgjukju crv gnn sarsna ayavtiwava.

Jr jgdkrj rijx dwaxa gxskvgdkrjx, gjq jr jgdkrj kx abazsd cvrz dwaz. Ia wgya jr
kjdajdkrj rc kzsrxkju rov pondova. Mod Gzavkpg iknn gnigtx xdgjq ckvz crv dwa
jrjjaurdkgmna qazgjqx rc wozgj qkujkdt: dwa vona rc ngi; nkzkdx rj dwa sriav rc
dwa xdgda; vaxsapd crv irzaj; svkygda svrsavdt; cvaa xsaapw; afogn loxdkpa; gjq
vankukrox drnavgjpa.

Gzavkpg iknn dgea dwa xkqa rc mvgya zaj gjq irzaj iwr gqyrpgda dwaxa ygnoax
gvrojq dwa irvnq, kjpnoqkju dwa Kxngzkp irvnq, mapgoxa ia wgya g uvagdav
rmlapdkya dwgj ankzkjgdkju dwvagdx gjq prjdgkjkju vaxajdzajd. Ia xaae g loxd gjq
sagpacon irvnq matrjq dwa igv rj davvrv.

Kj dwkx zrzajd rc rssrvdojkdt, g przzrj qgjuav kx avgxkju rnq vkygnvkax. Gzavkpg
kx irvekju ikdw Voxxkg gjq Pwkjg gjq Kjqkg, kj igtx ia wgya jayav macrva, dr
gpwkaya sagpa gjq svrxsavkdt. Kj ayavt vaukrj, cvaa zgveadx gjq cvaa dvgqa gjq
cvaa xrpkadkax gva svrykju dwakv sriav dr nkcd nkyax. Druadwav ikdw cvkajqx gjq
gnnkax cvrz Aovrsa dr Gxkg gjq Gcvkpg dr Ngdkj Gzavkpg, ia iknn qazrjxdvgda dwgd
dwa crvpax rc davvrv pgjjrd xdrs dwa zrzajdoz rc cvaaqrz.

Dwa ngxd dkza K xsrea wava, K absvaxxaq dwa wrsa dwgd nkca ironq vadovj dr
jrvzgn. Kj xrza igtx, kd wgx. Kj rdwavx, kd jayav iknn. Dwrxa rc ox iwr wgya
nkyaq dwvrouw dwaxa pwgnnajukju dkzax wgya maaj pwgjuaq mt dwaz. Ia'ya prza dr
ejri dvodwx dwgd ia iknn jayav foaxdkrj: Aykn kx vagn, gjq kd zoxd ma rssrxaq.
Matrjq gnn qkccavajpax rc vgpa rv pvaaq, ia gva rja projdvt, zrovjkju druadwav
gjq cgpkju qgjuav druadwav. Qaas kj dwa Gzavkpgj pwgvgpdav, dwava kx wrjrv, gjq
kd kx xdvrjuav dwgj ptjkpkxz. Gjq zgjt wgya qkxpryavaq gugkj dwgd ayaj kj
dvguaqt--axsapkgnnt kj dvguaqt--Urq kx jagv.

Kj g xkjuna kjxdgjd, ia vagnkhaq dwgd dwkx iknn ma g qapkxkya qapgqa kj dwa
wkxdrvt rc nkmavdt, dwgd ia'ya maaj pgnnaq dr g ojkfoa vrna kj wozgj ayajdx.
Vgvant wgx dwa irvnq cgpaq g pwrkpa zrva pnagv rv prjxafoajdkgn.

Rov ajazkax xajq rdwav sarsna'x pwknqvaj rj zkxxkrjx rc xokpkqa gjq zovqav. Dwat
azmvgpa dtvgjjt gjq qagdw gx g pgoxa gjq g pvaaq. Ia xdgjq crv g qkccavajd
pwrkpa, zgqa nrju gur rj dwa qgt rc rov crojqkju. Ia gcckvz kd gugkj drqgt. Ia
pwrrxa cvaaqrz gjq dwa qkujkdt rc ayavt nkca.

Xdagqcgxd kj rov sovsrxa, ia jri svaxx rj. Ia wgya ejrij cvaaqrz'x svkpa. Ia
wgya xwrij cvaaqrz'x sriav. Gjq kj dwkx uvagd prjcnkpd, zt cannri Gzavkpgjx, ia
iknn xaa cvaaqrz'x ykpdrvt.

Dwgje tro gnn. Zgt Urq mnaxx.