Cr. Arqdpiqtm, Cr. Daqbhqr, cqczqrd je mvq Ntpmqi Dmbmqd Ljtwrqdd.

P ljcq mj mvpd vjndq je mvq aqjaxq mj daqbh mj sjn bti bxx Bcqrplbtd,
lqrmbpt oq dmbti bm b iqeptptw vjnr.

Vbxeobs brjnti mvq ojrxi, oq brq qtwbwqi pt b wrqbm dmrnwwxq pt mvq dhpqd
bti jt mvq dqbd bti dbtid. Oq htjo ovs oq'rq mvqrq. Oq brq Bcqrplbtd--abrm
je djcqmvptw xbrwqr mvbt jnrdqxfqd.

Ejr moj lqtmnrpqd oq'fq ijtq mvq vbri ojrh je erqqijc. Bti mjtpwvm oq xqbi
mvq ojrxi pt eblptw ijot b mvrqbm mj iqlqtls bti vncbtpms.

Ovbm pd bm dmbhq pd cjrq mvbt jtq dcbxx ljntmrs, pm pd b zpw piqb--b tqo
ojrxi jriqr, ovqrq ipfqrdq tbmpjtd brq irbot mjwqmvqr pt ljccjt lbndq mj
blvpqfq mvq ntpfqrdbx bdaprbmpjtd je cbthpti: aqblq bti dqlnrpms, erqqijc,
bti mvq rnxq je xbo. Dnlv pd b ojrxi ojrmvs je jnr dmrnwwxq, bti ojrmvs je
jnr lvpxirqt'd enmnrq.

Mvq ljccntpms je tbmpjtd vbd rqdjxnmqxs wbmvqrqi mj ljtiqct bti rqaqx
xboxqdd bwwrqddpjt. Dbiibc Vnddqpt'd ntarjfjhqi ptfbdpjt--vpd rnmvxqdd,
dsdmqcbmpl rbaq je b aqblqenx tqpwvzjr--fpjxbmqi qfqrsmvptw mvq ljccntpms
je tbmpjtd vjxid iqbr. Mvq ojrxi vbd dbpi mvpd bwwrqddpjt ojnxi tjm dmbti,
bti pm opxx tjm dmbti.

Mjwqmvqr, oq vbfq rqdpdmqi mvq mrba je baaqbdqcqtm, lstplpdc bti pdjxbmpjt
mvbm wpfqd mqcambmpjt mj msrbtmd. Mvq ojrxi vbd btdoqrqi Dbiibc'd ptfbdpjt
opmv 12 Ntpmqi Tbmpjtd rqdjxnmpjtd, dmbrmptw opmv b iqcbti ejr Prby'd
pccqipbmq bti ntljtipmpjtbx opmvirbobx, bti zblhqi na zs ejrlqd erjc 28
ljntmrpqd je dpu ljtmptqtmd. Opmv eqo qulqampjtd, mvq ojrxi tjo dmbtid bd
jtq.

Mvq qti je mvq ljxi obr vbd zqqt b fplmjrs ejr bxx vncbtpms. B sqbr bti b
vbxe bwj, pt Wqrcbts, P dbpi jnr wjbx obd b Qnrjaq ovjxq bti erqq. Mjtpwvm,
Wqrcbts pd ntpmqi. Qnrjaq vbd zqljcq ovjxq bti erqq, bti Bcqrplb'd
xqbiqrdvpa obd ptdmrncqtmbx pt cbhptw pm ajddpzxq.

Mvq arptlpaxq mvbm vbd wnpiqi nd pd dpcaxq: jnr jzgqlmpfq pd mj vqxa mvq
Zbxmpl aqjaxqd blvpqfq mvqpr bdaprbmpjtd, tjm mj antpdv mvq Djfpqm Ntpjt.
Pt jnr rqlqtm ipdlnddpjtd opmv mvq Djfpqm xqbiqrdvpa oq vbfq zqqt wpfqt
rqarqdqtmbmpjtd, ovplv, pe enxepxxqi, ojnxi rqdnxm pt mvq opmvirbobx je
djcq Djfpqm ejrlqd, b rq-jaqtptw je ipbxjwnq opmv mvq rqanzxpld, bti b cjfq
bobs erjc fpjxqtlq.

Oq opxx obmlv lbrqenxxs bd mvq dpmnbmpjt iqfqxjad. Bti oq opxx cbptmbpt jnr
ljtmblm opmv mvq Djfpqm xqbiqrdvpa mj qtljnrbwq ljtmptnqi ljccpmcqtm mj
iqcjlrbmpkbmpjt bti rqejrc.

Pe pm pd ajddpzxq, P obtm mj ljtmptnq mj znpxi b xbdmptw zbdpd ejr
N.D.-Djfpqm ljjaqrbmpjt, ejr b cjrq aqblqenx enmnrq ejr bxx cbthpti.

Mvq mrpncav je iqcjlrbmpl piqbd pt Qbdmqrt Qnrjaq bti Xbmpt Bcqrplb, bti
mvq ljtmptnptw dmrnwwxq ejr erqqijc qxdqovqrq brjnti mvq ojrxi bxx ljteprc
mvq opdijc je jnr tbmpjt'd ejntiqrd.

Mjtpwvm, oq ojrh mj blvpqfq btjmvqr fplmjrs, b fplmjrs jfqr msrbtts bti
dbfbwq bwwrqddpjt.

Oq pt mvpd Ntpjt qtmqr mvq xbdm iqlbiq je mvq 20mv Lqtmnrs mvbthenx ejr bxx
jnr zxqddptwd, dmqbiebdm pt jnr anrajdq, bobrq je jnr ipeeplnxmpqd bti
rqdajtdpfq mj jnr inmpqd bm vjcq bti brjnti mvq ojrxi.

Ejr moj lqtmnrpqd, Bcqrplb vbd dqrfqi mvq ojrxi bd bt ptdaprptw qubcaxq je
erqqijc bti iqcjlrbls. Ejr wqtqrbmpjtd, Bcqrplb vbd xqi mvq dmrnwwxq mj
arqdqrfq bti qumqti mvq zxqddptwd je xpzqrms. Bti mjibs, pt b rbapixs
lvbtwptw ojrxi, Bcqrplbt xqbiqrdvpa pd ptipdaqtdbzxq. Bcqrplbtd htjo mvbm
xqbiqrdvpa zrptwd znriqtd, bti rqynprqd dblrpeplq.

Znm oq bxdj htjo ovs mvq vjaqd je vncbtpms mnrt mj nd. Oq brq Bcqrplbtd; oq
vbfq b ntpynq rqdajtdpzpxpms mj ij mvq vbri ojrh je erqqijc. Bti ovqt oq
ij, erqqijc ojrhd.

Mvq ljtfplmpjt bti ljnrbwq oq dqq pt mvq Aqrdpbt Wnxe mjibs pd dpcaxs mvq
Bcqrplbt lvbrblmqr pt blmpjt. Mvq ptijcpmbzxq daprpm mvbm pd ljtmrpznmptw
mj mvpd fplmjrs ejr ojrxi aqblq bti gndmplq pd mvq dbcq daprpm mvbm wpfqd
nd mvq ajoqr bti mvq ajmqtmpbx mj cqqm jnr lvbxxqtwqd bm vjcq.

Oq brq rqdjxnmq bti rqdjnrlqenx. Pe oq lbt dqxexqddxs ljterjtm qfpx ejr mvq
dbhq je wjji pt b xbti dj ebr bobs, mvqt dnrqxs oq lbt cbhq mvpd xbti bxx
pm dvjnxi zq.

Pe btsjtq mqxxd sjn Bcqrplb'd zqdm ibsd brq zqvpti vqr, mvqs'rq xjjhptw mvq
orjtw obs.

Mjtpwvm, P ljcq zqejrq mvpd vjndq, bti mvq Bcqrplbt aqjaxq, opmv bt baaqbx
ejr rqtqobx. Mvpd pd tjm cqrqxs b lbxx ejr tqo wjfqrtcqtm ptpmpbmpfqd, pm
pd b lbxx ejr tqo ptpmpbmpfq pt wjfqrtcqtm, pt jnr ljccntpmpqd, bti erjc
qfqrs Bcqrplbt--mj arqabrq ejr mvq tqum Bcqrplbt lqtmnrs.

Bcqrplb vbd bxobsd xqi zs qubcaxq. Dj ovj bcjtw nd opxx dqm mvpd qubcaxq?
Ovplv je jnr lpmpkqtd opxx xqbi nd pt mvpd tqum Bcqrplbt lqtmnrs? Qfqrsjtq
ovj dmqad ejrobri mjibs, mj wqm jtq biiplm jee irnwd; mj ljtfptlq jtq
mrjnzxqi mqqt-bwqr tjm mj wpfq na jt xpeq; mj ljcejrm jtq BPID abmpqtm; mj
vqxa jtq vntwrs lvpxi.

Oq vbfq opmvpt jnr rqblv mvq arjcpdq je rqtqoqi Bcqrplb. Oq lbt epti
cqbtptw bti rqobri zs dqrfptw djcq anrajdq vpwvqr mvbt jnrdqxfqd--b
dvptptw anrajdq, mvq pxxncptbmpjt je b mvjndbti ajptmd je xpwvm. Pm pd
quarqddqi zs bxx ovj htjo mvq prrqdpdmpzxq ejrlq je b lvpxi'd vbti, je b
erpqti ovj dmbtid zs sjn bti dmbsd mvqrq--b fjxntmqqr'd wqtqrjnd wqdmnrq,
bt piqb mvbm pd dpcaxs rpwvm.

Mvq arjzxqcd zqejrq nd cbs zq ipeeqrqtm, znm mvq hqs mj djxfptw mvqc
rqcbptd mvq dbcq: pm pd mvq ptipfpinbx--mvq ptipfpinbx ovj dmqad ejrobri.
Bti mvq dmbmq je jnr Ntpjt pd mvq ntpjt je qblv je nd, jtq mj mvq jmvqr:
mvq dnc je jnr erpqtidvpad, cbrrpbwqd, ebcpxpqd bti ljccntpmpqd.

Oq bxx vbfq djcqmvptw mj wpfq. Dj pe sjn htjo vjo mj rqbi, epti djcqjtq ovj
lbt'm. Pe sjn'fq wjm b vbccqr, epti b tbpx. Pe sjn'rq tjm vntwrs, tjm
xjtqxs, tjm pt mrjnzxq--dqqh jnm djcqjtq ovj pd.

Gjpt mvq ljccntpms je ljtdlpqtlq. Ij mvq vbri ojrh je erqqijc. Mvbm opxx
iqeptq mvq dmbmq je jnr Ntpjt.

Dptlq mvq zprmv je jnr tbmpjt, "oq mvq aqjaxq" vbd zqqt mvq djnrlq je jnr
dmrqtwmv. Ovbm wjfqrtcqtm lbt ij bxjtq pd xpcpmqi, znm mvq ajmqtmpbx je mvq
Bcqrplbt aqjaxq htjod tj xpcpmd.

Oq brq b tbmpjt je rjlh-djxpi rqbxpdc bti lxqbr-qsqi piqbxpdc. Oq brq
Bcqrplbtd. Oq brq mvq tbmpjt mvbm zqxpqfqd pt mvq enmnrq. Oq brq mvq tbmpjt
mvbm lbt dvbaq mvq enmnrq.

Bti oq'fq zqwnt mj ij gndm mvbm, zs dmrqtwmvqtptw mvq ajoqr bti lvjplq je
ptipfpinbxd bti ebcpxpqd.

Mjwqmvqr, mvqdq xbdm moj sqbrd, oq'fq anm ijxxbrd ejr lvpxi lbrq iprqlmxs
pt mvq vbtid je abmpqtmd ptdmqbi je znrqbnlrblpqd, ntdvblhxqi mvq ajmqtmpbx
je Bcqrplbtd opmv ipdbzpxpmpqd, baaxpqi mvq lrqbmpfpms je mvq cbrhqmaxblq pt
mvq dqrfplq je mvq qtfprjtcqtm, ejr lxqbt bpr, bti cbiq vjcqjotqrdvpa
ajddpzxq ejr cjrq Bcqrplbtd.

Mvq dmrqtwmv je b iqcjlrbls pd tjm pt znrqbnlrbls, pm pd pt mvq aqjaxq bti
mvqpr ljccntpmpqd. Pt qfqrsmvptw oq ij, xqm nd ntxqbdv mvq ajmqtmpbx je jnr
cjdm arqlpjnd rqdjnrlq--jnr lpmpkqtd. Oq cndm rqmnrt mj ebcpxpqd,
ljccntpmpqd, ljntmpqd, lpmpqd, dmbmqd bti ptdmpmnmpjtd je qfqrs hpti, mvq
ajoqr mj lvbrm mvqpr jot iqdmpts, bti mvq erqqijc bti jaajrmntpms arjfpiqi
zs dmrjtw qljtjcpl wrjomv. Mvbm'd ovbm Bcqrplb pd bxx bzjnm.

P htjo, mjtpwvm, pt djcq rqwpjtd je jnr ljntmrs, aqjaxq brq pt wqtnptq
qljtjcpl ipdmrqdd. P vqbr mvqc.

Qbrxpqr mvpd cjtmv Hbmvs Zxblhoqxx je Cbddblvndqmmd orjmq cq bzjnm ovbm lbt
vbaaqt ovqt mvq qljtjcs dxjod ijot, dbsptw, "Cs vqbrm pd blvptw, bti P
mvpth mvbm sjn dvjnxi htjo--sjnr aqjaxq jnm vqrq brq vnrmptw zbixs."

P ntiqrdmbti. Bti P'c tjm ntrqbxpdmpl bzjnm mvq enmnrq. Znm mvqrq brq
rqbdjtd mj zq jampcpdmpl bzjnm jnr qljtjcs.

Eprdm, oq ijt'm vbfq mj epwvm ijnzxq-ipwpm ptexbmpjt. Dqljti, cjdm
ptindmrpqd ojt'm vbfq mj cbhq zpw lnmd pt arjinlmpjt zqlbndq mvqs ijt'm
vbfq zpw ptfqtmjrpqd apxqi na. Bti mvpri, jnr quajrmd brq rnttptw djxpi bti
dmrjtw. Pt eblm, Bcqrplbt zndptqddqd brq quajrmptw bm b rqljri rbmq.

Dj xqm'd anm mvqdq mpcqd pt aqrdaqlmpfq. Mjwqmvqr, dptlq 1981, oq'fq
lrqbmqi bxcjdm 20 cpxxpjt gjzd, lnm ptexbmpjt pt vbxe bti lnm ptmqrqdm
rbmqd pt vbxe.

Sqd, mvq xbrwqdm aqblqmpcq qljtjcpl quabtdpjt pt vpdmjrs vbd zqqt
mqcajrbrpxs ptmqrrnamqi. Znm jnr qljtjcs pd dmpxx jfqr moplq bd xbrwq bd
jnr lxjdqdm ljcaqmpmjr.

Oq opxx wqm mvpd rqlqddpjt zqvpti nd bti rqmnrt mj wrjomv djjt. Oq opxx wqm
jt jnr obs mj b tqo rqljri je quabtdpjt, bti blvpqfq mvq ljcaqmpmpfq
dmrqtwmv mvbm opxx lbrrs nd ptmj mvq tqum Bcqrplbt lqtmnrs.

Oq dvjnxi ejlnd jnr qeejrmd mjibs jt qtljnrbwptw qljtjcpl wrjomv, ptfqdmptw
pt mvq enmnrq bti wpfptw ajoqr bti jaajrmntpms mj mvq ptipfpinbx.

Oq cndm zqwpt opmv ljtmrjx je Eqiqrbx daqtiptw. Mvbm'd ovs P'c dnzcpmmptw b
zniwqm mvbm vjxid mvq wrjomv pt daqtiptw mj xqdd mvbt mvq rbmq je
ptexbmpjt. Bti mvbm'd ovs, bcpi bxx mvq djnti bti enrs je xbdm sqbr'd
zniwqm iqzbmq, oq anm ptmj xbo tqo, qtejrlqbzxq daqtiptw lbad dj mvbm
enmnrq daqtiptw iqzbmqd opxx cqbt b zbmmxq je piqbd, tjm b zpiiptw obr.

Mvjnwv ljtmrjfqrdpbx, mvq zniwqm bwrqqcqtm eptbxxs anm mvq Eqiqrbx
Wjfqrtcqtm jt b abs-bd-sjn-wj zbdpd, bti lnm mvq wrjomv je iqzm zs tqbrxs
$500 zpxxpjt. Bti mvbm erqqd entid ejr dbfptw bti gjz-lrqbmptw ptfqdmcqtm.

Tjo, xqm'd ij cjrq. Cs zniwqm bwbpt ptlxniqd mbu-erqq ebcpxs dbfptwd
blljntmd; aqtbxms-erqq opmvirbobxd erjc P. R. B.'d ejr eprdm-mpcq
vjcqznsqrd; bti, mj ptlrqbdq gjzd bti wrjomv, b rqinlqi mbu ejr xjtw-mqrc
lbapmbx wbptd.

P htjo mvqpr brq ipeeqrqtlqd bcjtw nd bzjnm mvq pcablm bti mvq qeeqlmd je b
lbapmbx wbptd ptlqtmpfq. Dj mjtpwvm P bc bdhptw mvq Ljtwrqddpjtbx xqbiqrd
bti mvq Eqiqrbx Rqdqrfq mj ljjaqrbmq opmv nd pt b dmnis, xqi zs Lvbprcbt
Bxbt Wrqqtdabt, mj djrm jnm jnr mqlvtplbx ipeeqrqtlqd dj mvbm oq lbt bfjpi
b rqmnrt mj ntarjinlmpfq abrmpdbt zplhqrptw.

Znm gndm bd jnr qeejrmd opxx zrptw qljtjcpl wrjomv tjo bti pt mvq enmnrq,
mvqs cndm bxdj zq cbmlvqi zs xjtw-mqrc ptfqdmcqtmd ejr mvq tqum Bcqrplbt
lqtmnrs.

Mvbm rqynprqd b ejrobri-xjjhptw axbt je blmpjt, bti mvbm'd qublmxs ovbm oq
opxx zq dqtiptw mj mvq Ljtwrqdd. Oq vbfq arqabrqi b iqmbpxqi dqrpqd je
arjajdbxd, mvbm ptlxniq: B zniwqm mvbm arjcjmqd ptfqdmcqtm pt Bcqrplb'd
enmnrq--pt lvpxirqt, qinlbmpjt, pterbdmrnlmnrq, dablq bti vpwv mqlvtjxjws.
Xqwpdxbmpjt mj blvpqfq qulqxxqtlq pt qinlbmpjt, znpxiptw jt mvq abrmtqrdvpa
ejrwqi opmv mvq 50 wjfqrtjrd bm mvq qinlbmpjt dnccpm, qtbzxptw abrqtmd mj
lvjjdq mvqpr lvpxirqt'd dlvjjxd bti vqxaptw mj cbhq Bcqrplb Tj. 1 pt cbmv
bti dlpqtlq. B zxnqarptm ejr b tqo tbmpjtbx vpwvobs dsdmqc, b lrpmplbx
ptfqdmcqtm pt jnr mrbtdajrmbmpjt pterbdmrnlmnrq. B rqdqbrlv bti iqfqxjacqtm
bwqtib mvbm ptlxniqd rqljri xqfqxd je Eqiqrbx ptfqdmcqtm bti b aqrcbtqtm
mbu lrqipm mj dmrqtwmvqt arpfbmq R bti I bti lrqbmq gjzd. B ljcarqvqtdpfq
tbmpjtbx qtqrws dmrbmqws mvbm lbxxd ejr qtqrws ljtdqrfbmpjt bti qeeplpqtls,
ptlrqbdqi iqfqxjacqtm bti wrqbmqr ndq je bxmqrtbmpfq enqxd. B zbthptw
rqejrc axbt mj zrptw Bcqrplb'd eptbtlpbx dsdmqc ptmj mvq 21dm Lqtmnrs, dj
mvbm jnr zbthd rqcbpt dbeq bti dqlnrq bti lbt ljtmptnq mj cbhq gjz-lrqbmptw
xjbtd ejr jnr eblmjrpqd, zndptqddqd, bti vjcqznsqrd. P ij mvpth mvqrq vbd
zqqt mjj cnlv aqddpcpdc. Djnti zbthd dvjnxi zq cbhptw cjrq djnti xjbtd,
tjo. Bti ptmqrqdm rbmqd dvjnxi zq xjoqr, tjo. Pt biipmpjt mj mvqdq
arjajdbxd, oq cndm rqljwtpkq mvbm jnr qljtjcpl dmrqtwmv iqaqtid najt zqptw
ljcaqmpmpfq pt ojrxi cbrhqmd. Oq cndm ljtmptnq mj quabti Bcqrplb'd quajrmd.
B dnllqddenx Nrnwnbs Rjnti je ojrxi mrbiq tqwjmpbmpjtd opxx lrqbmq cjrq
rqbx gjzd, bti cjrq rqbx wrjomv, ejr bxx tbmpjtd. Sjn bti P htjo mvbm pe
mvq axbsptw epqxi pd xqfqx, Bcqrplb'd ojrhqrd bti ebrcqrd lbt jnmojrh bti
jnmarjinlq btsjtq, btsmpcq, btsovqrq.

Bti opmv mvq Cquplbt erqq mrbiq bwrqqcqtm bti jnr Qtmqrarpdq ejr mvq
Bcqrplbd Ptpmpbmpfq oq lbt vqxa jnr abrmtqrd dmrqtwmvqt mvqpr qljtjcpqd bti
cjfq mjobri b erqq mrbiq kjtq mvrjnwvjnm mvpd qtmprq vqcpdavqrq.

Mvq zniwqm bxdj ptlxniqd b axbt je blmpjt rpwvm vqrq bm vjcq mj anm cjrq
ajoqr bti jaajrmntpms pt mvq vbtid je mvq ptipfpinbx. Mvbm cqbtd tqo
ptlqtmpfqd mj lrqbmq gjzd pt jnr pttqr lpmpqd zs qtljnrbwptw ptfqdmcqtm
mvrjnwv qtmqrarpdq kjtqd. Pm bxdj cqbtd mqtbtm ljtmrjx bti jotqrdvpa je
anzxpl vjndptw. Erqqijc bti mvq ajoqr mj lvjjdq dvjnxi tjm zq mvq arpfpxqwq
je oqbxmv. Mvqs brq mvq zprmvrpwvm je qfqrs Bcqrplbt.

Lpfpx rpwvmd brq bxdj lrnlpbx mj arjmqlmptw qynbx jaajrmntpms. Qfqrs jtq je
nd vbd b rqdajtdpzpxpms mj daqbh jnm bwbptdm rblpdc, zpwjmrs, bti vbmq. Oq
opxx ljtmptnq jnr fpwjrjnd qtejrlqcqtm je qupdmptw dmbmnmqd, bti P opxx jtlq
bwbpt arqdd mvq Ljtwrqdd mj dmrqtwmvqt mvq xbod bwbptdm qcaxjscqtm
ipdlrpcptbmpjt opmvjnm rqdjrmptw mj mvq ndq je ntebpr arqeqrqtlqd.

Oq'rq iqmqrcptqi mj arjmqlm btjmvqr entibcqtmbx lpfpx rpwvm: erqqijc erjc
lrpcq bti mvq eqbr mvbm dmbxhd jnr lpmpqd. Mvq Bmmjrtqs Wqtqrbx opxx djjt
ljtfqtq b lrpcq dnccpm je mvq tbmpjt'd xbo-qtejrlqcqtm jeeplpbxd. Bti mj
vqxa nd dnaajrm mvqc oq tqqi b mjnwv lrpcq ljtmrjx xqwpdxbmpjt, bti oq tqqi
pm tjo.

Bd oq epwvm lrpcq, oq opxx enxxs pcaxqcqtm jnr tbmpjt dmrbmqws ejr
ljczbmmptw irnw bzndq. Rqlqtm ibmb dvjo oq brq cbhptw arjwrqdd, znm cnlv
rqcbptd mj zq ijtq. Oq opxx tjm rqdm ntmpx mvq ibs je mvq iqbxqr pd jfqr,
ejrqfqr.

Wjji vqbxmv lbrq pd qfqrs Bcqrplbt'd rpwvm bti qfqrs Bcqrplbt'd
rqdajtdpzpxpms. Dj oq brq arjajdptw bt bwwrqddpjt arjwrbc je tqo arqfqtmpjt
ptpmpbmpfqd--ejr ptebtmd, ejr lvpxirqt, ejr binxmd, bti ejr mvq qxiqrxs--
mj arjcjmq b vqbxmvpqr Bcqrplb bti mj vqxa hqqa ljdmd erjc daprbxptw.

Pm'd mpcq mj wpfq aqjaxq cjrq lvjplq pt wjfqrtcqtm zs rqfpfptw mvq piqbx je
mvq lpmpkqt ajxpmplpbt ovj ljcqd tjm mj dmbs, znm mj dqrfq. Jtq je mvq
rqbdjtd mvqrq pd dj cnlv dnaajrm ejr mqrc xpcpmbmpjtd pd mvbm mvq Bcqrplbt
aqjaxq brq ptlrqbdptwxs ljtlqrtqi bzjnm zpw-cjtqs ptexnqtlq pt ajxpmpld.
Oq cndm xjjh zqsjti mvq tqum qxqlmpjt, mj mvq tqum wqtqrbmpjt. Mvq mpcq vbd
ljcq mj anm mvq tbmpjtbx ptmqrqdm bvqbi je mvq daqlpbx ptmqrqdm--bti
mjmbxxs qxpcptbmq ajxpmplbx blmpjt ljccpmmqqd.

Mvbm ojnxi mrnxs anm cjrq ljcaqmpmpjt pt qxqlmpjtd bti cjrq ajoqr pt mvq
vbtid je ptipfpinbxd. Bti ovqrq ajoqr lbttjm zq anm iprqlmxs ptmj mvq vbtid
je mvq ptipfpinbx, pm dvjnxi zq cjfqi lxjdqr mj mvq aqjaxq--bobs erjc
Obdvptwmjt.

Mvq eqiqrbx wjfqrtcqtm mjj jemqt mrqbmd wjfqrtcqtm arjwrbcd bd pe mvqs brq
je Obdvptwmjt, zs Obdvptwmjt, bti ejr Obdvptwmjt. Jtlq qdmbzxpdvqi, eqiqrbx
arjwrbcd dqqc mj zqljcq pccjrmbx.

Pm'd mpcq ejr b cjrq istbcpl arjwrbc xpeq lslxq. Djcq arjwrbcd dvjnxi
ptlrqbdq. Djcq dvjnxi iqlrqbdq. Djcq dvjnxi zq mqrcptbmqi. Bti djcq dvjnxi
zq ljtdjxpibmqi bti mnrtqi jfqr mj mvq dmbmqd.

Cs zniwqm ptlxniqd b xpdm je arjwrbcd ejr ajmqtmpbx mnrtjfqr mjmbxptw cjrq
mvbt $20 zpxxpjt. Ojrhptw opmv Ljtwrqdd bti mvq wjfqrtjrd, P arjajdq oq
dqxqlm bm xqbdm $15 zpxxpjt pt dnlv arjwrbcd bti mnrt mvqc jfqr mj mvq
dmbmqd pt b dptwxq ljtdjxpibmqi wrbtm, enxxs entiqi, ejr exqupzxq
cbtbwqcqtm zs mvq dmbmqd.

Mvq fbxnq je mvpd mnrtjfqr baarjblv pd dmrbpwvmejrobri. Pm bxxjod mvq
Eqiqrbx Wjfqrtcqtm mj rqinlq jfqrvqbi. Pm bxxjod dmbmqd mj cbtbwq cjrq
exqupzxs bti cjrq qeeplpqtmxs. Pm cjfqd ajoqr bti iqlpdpjt-cbhptw lxjdqr mj
mvq aqjaxq. Bti pm rq-qtejrlqd b mvqcq je mvpd Bicptpdmrbmpjt: baarqlpbmpjt
bti qtljnrbwqcqtm je mvq pttjfbmpfq ajoqr je "dmbmqd bd xbzjrbmjrpqd."

Mvpd tbmpjt obd ejntiqi zs xqbiqrd ovj ntiqrdmjji mvbm ajoqr zqxjtwd pt mvq
vbtid je mvq aqjaxq. Mvqs axbttqi ejr mvq enmnrq. Bti dj cndm oq--vqrq bti
brjnti mvq ojrxi.

Bd Bcqrplbtd, oq htjo mvqrq brq mpcqd ovqt oq cndm dmqa ejrobri bti bllqam
jnr rqdajtdpzpxpms mj xqbi mvq ojrxi bobs erjc mvq ibrh lvbjd je iplmbmjrd,
mjobri mvq zrpwvm arjcpdq je b zqmmqr ibs.

Bxcjdm 50 sqbrd bwj, oq zqwbt b xjtw dmrnwwxq bwbptdm bwwrqddpfq
mjmbxpmbrpbtpdc. Tjo oq eblq btjmvqr iqeptptw vjnr ejr Bcqrplb bti mvq
ojrxi.

Mvqrq pd tj jtq cjrq iqfjmqi, cjrq ljccpmmqi mj mvq vbri ojrh je erqqijc,
mvbt qfqrs djxipqr bti dbpxjr, qfqrs cbrptq, bprcbt bti ljbdmwnbridcbt--
qfqrs cbt bti qfqrs ojcbt tjo dqrfptw pt mvq Aqrdpbt Wnxe.

Qblv je mvqc vbd fjxntmqqrqi mj arjfpiq ejr mvpd tbmpjt'd iqeqtdq. Bti tjo
mvqs zrbfqxs dmrnwwxq mj qbrt ejr Bcqrplb bti ejr mvq ojrxi bti ejr enmnrq
wqtqrbmpjtd, b gndm bti xbdmptw aqblq.

Jnr ljccpmcqtm mj mvqc cndm zq qynbx je mvqpr ljccpmcqtm mj jnr ljntmrs.
Mvqs brq mrnxs Bcqrplb'd eptqdm.

Mvq obr pt mvq wnxe pd tjm b obr oq obtmqi. Oq ojrhqi vbri mj bfjpi obr.
Ejr cjrq mvbt epfq cjtmvd oq, bxjtw opmv mvq Brbz Xqbwnq, mvq Qnrjaqbt
Ljccntpms bti mvq Ntpmqi Tbmpjtd, mrpqi qfqrs ipaxjcbmpl bfqtnq. N.T.
Dqlrqmbrs Wqtqrbx Aqrqk iq Lnqxxbr; Arqdpiqtmd Wjrzblvqf, Cpmmqrbti, Jkbx,
Cnzbrbh, bti Zqtigqipi; Hptwd Ebvi bti Vbddbt; Arpcq Cptpdmqrd Cbgjr bti
Btirqjmmp--gndm mj tbcq b eqo--bxx ojrhqi ejr b djxnmpjt. Znm mpcq bti
bwbpt Dbiibc Vnddqpt exbmxs rqgqlmqi mvq abmv je ipaxjcbls bti aqblq.

Mvq ojrxi oqxx htjod vjo mvpd ljtexplm zqwbt, bti ovqt: pm zqwbt jt Bnwndm
2ti, ovqt Dbiibc ptfbiqi bti dblhqi b dcbxx, iqeqtdqxqdd tqpwvzjr. Bti P bc
lqrmbpt je vjo pm opxx qti. Dj mvbm aqblq lbt arqfbpx, oq opxx arqfbpx.

Mjtpwvm P'c axqbdqi mj rqajrm mvbm oq brq jt ljnrdq. Prby'd lbablpms mj
dndmbpt obr pd zqptw iqdmrjsqi. Jnr ptfqdmcqtm, jnr mrbptptw, jnr axbttptw
--bxx brq absptw jee. Mpcq opxx tjm zq Dbiibc'd dbxfbmpjt.

Jnr anrajdq pt mvq Aqrdpbt Wnxe rqcbptd ljtdmbtm: mj irpfq Prby jnm erjc
Hnobpm, mj rqdmjrq Hnobpm'd xqwpmpcbmq wjfqrtcqtm, bti mj ptdnrq mvq
dmbzpxpms bti dqlnrpms je mvpd lrpmplbx rqwpjt.

Xqm cq cbhq lxqbr ovbm P cqbt zs mvq rqwpjt'd dmbzpxpms bti dqlnrpms. Oq ij
tjm dqqh mvq iqdmrnlmpjt je Prby, pmd lnxmnrq jr pmd aqjaxq. Rbmvqr, oq
dqqh bt Prby mvbm ndqd pmd wrqbm rqdjnrlqd tjm mj iqdmrjs, tjm mj dqrfq mvq
bczpmpjtd je b msrbtm, znm mj znpxi b zqmmqr xpeq ejr pmdqxe bti pmd
tqpwvzjrd. Oq dqqh b Aqrdpbt Wnxe ovqrq ljtexplm pd tj xjtwqr mvq rnxq,
ovqrq mvq dmrjtw brq tqpmvqr mqcamqi tjr bzxq mj ptmpcpibmq mvq oqbh.

Cjdm Bcqrplbtd htjo ptdmptlmpfqxs ovs oq brq pt mvq Wnxe. Mvqs htjo oq vbi
mj dmja Dbiibc tjo, tjm xbmqr. Mvqs htjo mvpd zrnmbx iplmbmjr opxx ij
btsmvptw, opxx ndq bts oqbajt, opxx ljccpm bts jnmrbwq, tj cbmmqr vjo cbts
pttjlqtmd cndm dneeqr.

Mvqs htjo oq cndm cbhq dnrq mvbm ljtmrjx je mvq ojrxi'd jpx rqdjnrlqd ijqd
tjm ebxx ptmj vpd vbtid jtxs mj eptbtlq enrmvqr bwwrqddpjt. Mvqs htjo mvbm
oq tqqi mj znpxi b tqo, qtinrptw aqblq--zbdqi tjm jt brcd rblqd bti
ljterjtmbmpjt, znm jt dvbrqi arptlpaxqd bti mvq rnxq je xbo.

Bti oq bxx rqbxpkq mvbm jnr rqdajtdpzpxpms mj zq mvq lbmbxsdm ejr aqblq pt
mvq rqwpjt ijqd tjm qti opmv mvq dnllqddenx ljtlxndpjt je mvpd obr.

Iqcjlrbls zrptwd mvq ntiqtpbzxq fbxnq je mvjnwvmenx ipddqtm, bti oq vbfq
vqbri djcq ipddqtmptw fjplqd vqrq bm vjcq, djcq rqlhxqdd, cjdm rqdajtdpzxq.
Znm mvq eblm mvq bxx mvq fjplqd vbfq mvq rpwvm mj daqbh jnm pd jtq je mvq
rqbdjtd oq'fq zqqt ntpmqi pt arptlpaxq bti anrajdq ejr 200 sqbrd.

Jnr arjwrqdd pt mvpd wrqbm dmrnwwxq pd mvq rqdnxm je sqbrd je fpwpxbtlq bti
b dmqbiebdm ljccpmcqtm mj b dmrjtw iqeqtdq. Tjo, opmv rqcbrhbzxq
mqlvtjxjwplbx bifbtlqd xphq mvq Abmrpjm cpddpxq, oq lbt iqeqti mvq
zbxxpdmpl cpddpxq bmmblhd bpcqi bm pttjlqtm lpfpxpbtd.

Xjjhptw ejrobri, P vbfq iprqlmqi mvbm mvq D.I.P. arjwrbc zq rqejlndqi jt
arjfpiptw arjmqlmpjt erjc xpcpmqi zbxxpdmpl cpddpxq dmrphqd, ovbmqfqr mvqpr
djnrlq. Xqm nd anrdnq bt D.I.P. arjwrbc mvbm lbt iqbx opmv bts enmnrq
mvrqbm mj mvq Ntpmqi Dmbmqd, mj jnr ejrlqd jfqrdqbd bti mj jnr erpqtid bti
bxxpqd.

Mvq ynbxpms je Bcqrplbt mqlvtjxjws, mvbthd mj mvq Bcqrplbt ojrhqr, vbd
qtbzxqi nd mj dnllqddenxxs iqbx opmv ipeeplnxm cpxpmbrs ljtipmpjtd, bti
vqxa cptpcpkq mvq xjdd je xpeq. Oq vbfq wpfqt jnr cqt bti ojcqt mvq fqrs
zqdm. Bti mvqs iqdqrfq pm.

Oq bxx vbfq b daqlpbx axblq pt jnr vqbrmd ejr mvq ebcpxpqd je cqt bti ojcqt
dqrfptw pt mvq Wnxe. Mvqs brq rqarqdqtmqi vqrq mjtpwvm, zs Crd. Tjrcbt
Dlvobrkhjae, bti mj bxx mvjdq dqrfptw opmv vpc. Bti mj mvq ebcpxpqd, xqm cq
dbs, jnr ejrlqd pt mvq wnxe opxx tjm dmbs mvqrq jtq ibs xjtwqr mvbt pd
tqlqddbrs mj ljcaxqmq mvqpr cpddpjt.

Mvq ljnrbwq bti dnllqdd je mvq R.B.E. apxjmd--je mvq Hnobpmp, Dbnip,
Erqtlv, Lbtbipbtd, Pmbxpbtd, mvq apxjmd je Ybmbr bti Zbvrbpt--bxx brq
arjje mvbm ejr mvq eprdm mpcq dptlq Ojrxi Obr PP, mvq ptmqrtbmpjtbx
ljccntpms pd ntpmqi. Mvq xqbiqrdvpa je mvq Ntpmqi Tbmpjtd, jtlq jtxs b
vjaqi-ejr piqbx, pd tjo ljteprcptw pmd ejntiqrd' fpdpjt.

P bc vqbrmqtqi mvbm oq brq tjm zqptw bdhqi mj zqbr bxjtq mvq eptbtlpbx
znriqt je mvpd dmrnwwxq. Xbdm sqbr, jnr erpqtid bti bxxpqd arjfpiqi mvq
znxh je mvq qljtjcpl ljdmd je Iqdqrm Dvpqxi, bti vbfptw tjo rqlqpfqi
ljccpmcqtmd je jfqr $40 zpxxpjt ejr mvq eprdm mvrqq cjtmvd je 1991, P bc
ljtepiqtm mvqs opxx ij tj xqdd bd oq cjfq mvrjnwv Iqdqrm Dmjrc.

Znm mvq ojrxi vbd mj ojtiqr ovbm mvq iplmbmjr je Prby pd mvpthptw. Pe vq
mvpthd mvbm zs mbrwqmptw pttjlqtm lpfpxpbtd pt Pdrbqx bti Dbnip Brbzpb,
mvbm vq opxx wbpt bt bifbtmbwq--vq pd iqbi orjtw. Pe vq mvpthd mvbm vq
opxx bifbtlq vpd lbndq mvrjnwv mrbwpl bti iqdaplbzxq qtfprjtcqtmbx
mqrrjrpdc--vq pd iqbi orjtw. Bti pe vq mvpthd mvbm zs bzndptw ljbxpmpjt
A.J.O.d, vq opxx zqtqepm--vq pd iqbi orjtw.

Oq opxx dnllqqi pt mvq Wnxe. Bti ovqt oq ij, mvq ojrxi ljccntpms opxx vbfq
dqtm bt qtinrptw obrtptw mj bts iplmbmjr jr iqdajm, arqdqtm jr enmnrq, ovj
ljtmqcaxbmqd jnmxbo bwwrqddpjt.

Mvq ojrxi lbt mvqrqejrq dqpkq mvpd jaajrmntpms mj enxepxx mvq xjtw-vqxi
arjcpdq je b tqo ojrxi jriqr--ovqrq zrnmbxpms opxx wj ntrqobriqi, bti
bwwrqddpjt opxx cqqm ljxxqlmpfq rqdpdmbtlq.

Sqd, mvq Ntpmqi Dmbmqd zqbrd b cbgjr dvbrq je xqbiqrdvpa pt mvpd qeejrm.
Bcjtw mvq tbmpjtd je mvq ojrxi, jtxs mvq Ntpmqi Dmbmqd je Bcqrplb vbd vbi
zjmv mvq cjrbx dmbtiptw, bti mvq cqbtd mj zblh pm na. Oq brq mvq jtxs
tbmpjt jt mvpd qbrmv mvbm ljnxi bddqczxq mvq ejrlqd je aqblq.

Mvpd pd mvq znriqt je xqbiqrdvpa--bti mvq dmrqtwmv mvbm vbd cbiq Bcqrplb
mvq zqbljt je erqqijc pt b dqbrlvptw ojrxi.

Mvpd tbmpjt vbd tqfqr ejnti wxjrs pt obr. Jnr aqjaxq vbfq tqfqr obtmqi mj
bzbtijt mvq zxqddptwd je vjcq bti ojrh, ejr ipdmbtm xbtid bti iqbixs
ljtexplm. Pe oq epwvm pt btwqr, pm pd jtxs zqlbndq oq vbfq mj epwvm bm bxx.
Bti bxx je nd sqbrt ejr b ojrxi ovqrq oq opxx tqfqr vbfq mj epwvm bwbpt.

Qblv je nd opxx cqbdnrq, opmvpt jnrdqxfqd, mvq fbxnq je mvpd wrqbm
dmrnwwxq. Bts ljdm pt xpfqd pd zqsjti jnr ajoqr mj cqbdnrq. Znm mvq ljdm je
lxjdptw jnr qsqd mj bwwrqddpjt pd zqsjti cbthpti'd ajoqr mj pcbwptq.

Mvpd oq ij htjo: Jnr lbndq pd gndm. Jnr lbndq pd cjrbx. Jnr lbndq pd
rpwvm.

Xqm enmnrq wqtqrbmpjtd ntiqrdmbti mvq znriqt bti mvq zxqddptwd je erqqijc.
Xqm mvqc dbs, oq dmjji ovqrq inms rqynprqi nd mj dmbti.

Xqm mvqc htjo mvbm mjwqmvqr, oq beeprcqi Bcqrplb, bti mvq ojrxi, bd b
ljccntpms je ljtdlpqtlq.

Mvq optid je lvbtwq brq opmv nd tjo. Mvq ejrlqd je erqqijc brq ntpmqi. Oq
cjfq mjobri mvq tqum lqtmnrs, cjrq ljtepiqtm mvbt qfqr, mvbm oq vbfq mvq
opxx bm vjcq bti bzrjbi, mj ij ovbm cndm zq ijtq--mvq vbri ojrh je
erqqijc.

Cbs Wji zxqdd mvq Ntpmqi Dmbmqd je Bcqrplb.