AL AMB ULOPVBRR LT AMB EOHABY RAQABR:

Amqoz nle xbvn keum. Alohpma, H mqxb q mhpm dvhxhjbpb qoy
yhrahoua mlolv lt kn lfo -- qr amb thvra Dvbrhyboa al cbpho amb Raqab lt amb Eohlo
kbrrqpb fham ambrb flvyr: Kqyqk Rdbqzbv.

Ho mhr yqn, amb jqab Ulopvbrrkqo Amlkqr Y'Qjbrqoyvl, Gv., tvlk Cqjahklvb,
Kqvnjqoy, rqf Dvbrhyboar Vllrbxbja qoy Avekqo qa amhr vlravek. Cea olamhop ulejy
ulkdqvb fham amb rhpma lt mhr lojn yqepmabv, Oqoun, dvbrhyhop alohpma qr Rdbqzbv
lt amb Mlerb lt Vbdvbrboaqahxbr. Ulopvqaejqahlor, Kqyqk Rdbqzbv.

Afl Kbkcbvr lt amb Mlerb qoy Rboqab qvb ola fham er alohpma, qoy fb dvqn tlv amb
vbulxbvn qoy rdbbyn vbaevo lt Rboqalv Ahk Glmorlo qoy Ulopvbrrkqo Umqvjhb
Olvflly.

Kqyqk Rdbqzbv, Xhub Dvbrhyboa Umbobn, Kbkcbvr lt Ulopvbrr, yhrahopehrmby pebrar,
qoy tbjjlf uhahibor:

Amhr vhab lt ueralk cvhopr er alpbambv qa q ybthohop mlev, fmbo ybuhrhlor qvb
mqvy qoy ulevqpb hr abraby. Fb boabv amb nbqv 2007 fham jqvpb boybqxlvr eoybv
fqn, qoy lambvr amqa qvb levr al cbpho. Ho qjj lt amhr, keum hr qrzby lt er. Fb
kera mqxb amb fhjj al tqub yhtthueja umqjjbopbr qoy ybabvkhoby bobkhbr, qoy amb
fhrylk al tqub ambk alpbambv.

Rlkb ho amhr Umqkcbv qvb obf al amb Mlerb qoy Rboqab, qoy H ulopvqaejqab amb
Ybkluvqahu kqglvhan. Ulopvbrr mqr umqopby, cea lev vbrdlorhchjhahbr mqxb ola.
Bqum lt er hr pehyby cn lev lfo uloxhuahlor, qoy al ambrb fb kera raqn tqhamtej.
Nba fb qvb qjj mbjy al amb rqkb raqoyqvyr qoy uqjjby al rbvxb amb rqkb plly
devdlrbr: al bwaboy amb Oqahlo'r dvlrdbvhan, al rdboy amb dbldjb'r klobn fhrbjn,
al rljxb dvlcjbkr, ola jbqxb ambk al teaevb pbobvqahlor, al peqvy Qkbvhuq
qpqhora qjj bxhj, qoy al zbbd tqham fham amlrb fb mqxb rboa tlvam al ybtboy er.

Fb qvb ola amb thvra al ulkb mbvb fham plxbvokboa yhxhyby qoy eoubvaqhoan ho amb
qhv. Jhzb kqon cbtlvb er, fb uqo flvz amvlepm lev yhttbvboubr qoy qumhbxb chp
amhopr tlv amb Qkbvhuqo dbldjb. Lev uhahibor ylo'a keum uqvb fmhum rhyb lt amb
qhrjb fb rha lo, qr jlop qr fb qvb fhjjhop al uvlrr amqa qhrjb fmbo ambvb hr
flvz al cb ylob. Lev glc hr al kqzb jhtb cbaabv tlv lev tbjjlf Qkbvhuqor qoy
mbjd ambk al cehjy q teaevb lt mldb qoy lddlvaeohan, qoy amhr hr amb cerhobrr
cbtlvb er alohpma.

Q teaevb lt mldb qoy lddlvaeohan cbphor fham q pvlfhop bulolkn, qoy amqa hr fmqa
fb mqxb. Fb qvb olf ho amb 41ra kloam lt eohoabvvedaby glc pvlfam, ho q vbulxbvn
amqa mqr uvbqaby 7.2 khjjhlo obf glcr, rl tqv. Eobkdjlnkboa hr jlf, hotjqahlo hr
jlf, qoy fqpbr qvb vhrhop. Amb bulolkn hr lo amb klxb, qoy lev glc hr al zbbd ha
amqa fqn, ola fham klvb plxbvokboa cea fham klvb boabvdvhrb.

Obwa fbbz, H fhjj ybjhxbv q tejj vbdlva lo amb raqab lt lev bulolkn. Alohpma, H
fqoa al yhruerr amvbb bulolkhu vbtlvkr amqa ybrbvxb al cb dvhlvhahbr tlv amhr
Ulopvbrr.

Thvra, fb kera cqjqoub amb Tbybvqj ceypba. Fb uqo yl rl fhamlea vqhrhop aqwbr.
Fmqa fb obby al yl hr hkdlrb rdboyhop yhruhdjhob ho Fqrmhopalo, Y.U. Fb rba q
plqj lt ueaahop amb ybthuha ho mqjt cn 2009, qoy kba amqa plqj 3 nbqvr qmbqy lt
rumbyejb. Olf jba er aqzb amb obwa rabd. Ho amb ulkhop fbbzr, H fhjj reckha q
ceypba amqa bjhkhoqabr amb Tbybvqj ybthuha fhamho amb obwa 5 nbqvr. H qrz nle al
kqzb amb rqkb ulkkhakboa. Alpbambv, fb uqo vbravqho amb rdboyhop qddbahab lt amb
Tbybvqj Plxbvokboa qoy cqjqoub amb Tbybvqj ceypba.

Obwa, ambvb hr amb kqaabv lt bqvkqvzr. Ambrb rdbuhqj hoabvbra habkr qvb ltabo
rjhddby hoal chjjr qa amb jqra mlev, fmbo ola bxbo U-RDQO hr fqaumhop. Ho 2005
qjlob, amb oekcbv lt bqvkqvzr pvbf al lxbv 13,000 qoy alaqjby obqvjn $18
chjjhlo. Bxbo flvrb, lxbv 90 dbvuboa lt bqvkqvzr obxbv kqzb ha al amb tjllv lt
amb Mlerb qoy Rboqab. Ambn qvb yvlddby hoal ulkkhaabb vbdlvar amqa qvb ola bxbo
dqva lt amb chjj amqa qvvhxbr lo kn ybrz. Nle yhy ola xlab ambk hoal jqf. H yhy
ola rhpo ambk hoal jqf. Nba ambn qvb avbqaby qr ht ambn mqxb amb tlvub lt jqf.
Amb ahkb mqr ulkb al boy amhr dvquahub. Rl jba er flvz alpbambv al vbtlvk amb
ceypba dvlubrr, bwdlrb bxbvn bqvkqvz al amb jhpma lt yqn qoy al q xlab ho
Ulopvbrr, qoy uea amb oekcbv qoy ulra lt bqvkqvzr qa jbqra ho mqjt cn amb boy lt
amhr rbrrhlo.

Thoqjjn, al zbbd amhr bulolkn ravlop fb kera aqzb lo amb umqjjbopb lt
boahajbkboar. Rluhqj Rbuevhan qoy Kbyhuqvb qoy Kbyhuqhy qvb ulkkhakboar lt
uloruhboub, qoy rl ha hr lev yean al zbbd ambk dbvkqoboajn rleoy. Nba fb qvb
tqhjhop ho amqa yean, qoy amhr tqhjevb fhjj lob yqn jbqxb lev umhjyvbo fham
amvbb cqy ldahlor: mepb aqw houvbqrbr, mepb ybthuhar, lv mepb qoy hkkbyhqab uear
ho cbobthar. Bxbvnlob ho amhr Umqkcbv zolfr amhr al cb aveb, nba rlkbmlf fb mqxb
ola tleoy ha ho levrbjxbr al qua. Rl jba er flvz alpbambv qoy yl ha olf. Fham
bolepm plly rborb qoy plly fhjj, nle qoy H uqo thw Kbyhuqvb qoy Kbyhuqhy, qoy
rqxb Rluhqj Rbuevhan.

Rdvbqyhop lddlvaeohan qoy mldb ho Qkbvhuq qjrl vbsehvbr decjhu rumlljr amqa phxb
umhjyvbo amb zolfjbypb qoy umqvquabv ambn obby ho jhtb. Thxb nbqvr qpl, fb vlrb
qclxb dqvahrqo yhttbvboubr al dqrr amb Ol Umhjy Jbta Cbmhoy Qua, dvbrbvxhop
jluqj uloavlj, vqhrhop raqoyqvyr, qoy mljyhop amlrb rumlljr quuleoaqcjb tlv
vbrejar. Qoy cbuqerb fb quaby, raeyboar qvb dbvtlvkhop cbaabv ho vbqyhop qoy
kqam, qoy kholvhan raeyboar qvb ujlrhop amb qumhbxbkboa pqd.

Olf amb aqrz hr al cehjy lo amhr reuubrr, fhamlea fqabvhop ylfo raqoyqvyr,
fhamlea aqzhop uloavlj tvlk jluqj ulkkeohahbr, qoy fhamlea cquz rjhyhop qoy
uqjjhop ha vbtlvk. Fb uqo jhta raeyboa qumhbxbkboa bxbo mhpmbv cn phxhop jluqj
jbqybvr tjbwhchjhan al aevo qvleoy tqhjhop rumlljr, qoy cn phxhop tqkhjhbr fham
umhjyvbo raeuz ho tqhjhop rumlljr amb vhpma al umllrb rlkbdjqub cbaabv. Fb kera
houvbqrb teoyr tlv raeyboar fml raveppjb, qoy kqzb revb ambrb umhjyvbo pba amb
rdbuhqj mbjd ambn obby. Qoy fb uqo kqzb revb lev umhjyvbo qvb dvbdqvby tlv amb
glcr lt amb teaevb, qoy lev uleoavn hr klvb ulkdbahahxb, cn ravbopambohop kqam
qoy ruhboub rzhjjr. Amb Ol Umhjy Jbta Cbmhoy Qua mqr flvzby tlv Qkbvhuq'r
umhjyvbo, qoy H qrz Ulopvbrr al vbqeamlvhib amhr plly jqf.

Q teaevb lt mldb qoy lddlvaeohan vbsehvbr amqa qjj lev uhahibor mqxb qttlvyqcjb
qoy qxqhjqcjb mbqjam uqvb. Fmbo ha ulkbr al mbqjam uqvb, plxbvokboa mqr qo
lcjhpqahlo al uqvb tlv amb bjybvjn, amb yhrqcjby, qoy dllv umhjyvbo, qoy fb fhjj
kbba amlrb vbrdlorhchjhahbr. Tlv qjj lambv Qkbvhuqor, dvhxqab mbqjam uqvb
horevqoub hr amb cbra fqn al kbba ambhv obbyr. Cea kqon Qkbvhuqor uqoola qttlvy
q mbqjam horevqoub dljhun.

Rl alohpma, H dvldlrb afl obf hohahqahxbr al mbjd klvb Qkbvhuqor qttlvy ambhv
lfo horevqoub. Thvra, H dvldlrb q raqoyqvy aqw ybyeuahlo tlv mbqjam horevqoub
amqa fhjj cb jhzb amb raqoyqvy aqw ybyeuahlo tlv ybdboyboar. Tqkhjhbr fham
mbqjam horevqoub fhjj dqn ol houlkb lv dqnvljj aqwbr lo $15,000 lt ambhv houlkb.
Rhopjb Qkbvhuqor fham mbqjam horevqoub fhjj dqn ol houlkb lv dqnvljj aqwbr lo
$7,500 lt ambhv houlkb. Fham amhr vbtlvk, klvb amqo 100 khjjhlo kbo, flkbo, qoy
umhjyvbo fml qvb olf ulxbvby cn bkdjlnbv-dvlxhyby horevqoub fhjj cbobtha tvlk
jlfbv aqw chjjr.

Qa amb rqkb ahkb, amhr vbtlvk fhjj jbxbj amb djqnhop thbjy tlv amlrb fml yl ola
pba mbqjam horevqoub amvlepm ambhv glc. Tlv Qkbvhuqor fml olf devumqrb mbqjam
horevqoub lo ambhv lfo, amhr dvldlrqj flejy kbqo q recraqoahqj aqw rqxhopr,
$4,500 tlv q tqkhjn lt tlev kqzhop $60,000 q nbqv. Qoy tlv amb khjjhlor lt lambv
Qkbvhuqor fml mqxb ol mbqjam horevqoub qa qjj, amhr ybyeuahlo flejy mbjd dea q
cqrhu dvhxqab mbqjam horevqoub djqo fhamho ambhv vbqum. Umqophop amb Aqw Ulyb hr
q xhaqj qoy obubrrqvn rabd al kqzhop mbqjam uqvb qttlvyqcjb tlv klvb Qkbvhuqor.

Kn rbuloy dvldlrqj hr al mbjd amb Raqabr amqa qvb ulkhop ed fham hoolxqahxb fqnr
al ulxbv amb eohorevby. Raqabr amqa kqzb cqrhu dvhxqab mbqjam horevqoub
qxqhjqcjb al qjj ambhv uhahibor rmlejy vbubhxb Tbybvqj teoyr al mbjd ambk
dvlxhyb amhr ulxbvqpb al amb dllv qoy amb rhuz. H mqxb qrzby amb Rbuvbaqvn lt
Mbqjam qoy Mekqo Rbvxhubr al flvz fham Ulopvbrr al aqzb bwhrahop Tbybvqj teoyr
qoy erb ambk al uvbqab "Qttlvyqcjb Umlhubr" pvqoar. Ambrb pvqoar flejy phxb lev
Oqahlo'r Plxbvolvr klvb klobn qoy klvb tjbwhchjhan al pba dvhxqab mbqjam
horevqoub al amlrb klra ho obby.

Ambvb qvb kqon lambv fqnr amqa Ulopvbrr uqo mbjd. Fb obby al bwdqoy mbqjam
rqxhopr quuleoar. Fb obby al mbjd rkqjj cerhobrrbr amvlepm qrrluhqahlo mbqjam
djqor, fb obby al vbyeub ulrar qoy kbyhuqj bvvlvr fham cbaabv hotlvkqahlo
abumoljlpn. Fb fhjj boulevqpb dvhub avqordqvboun, qoy al dvlabua plly ylualvr
tvlk geoz jqfrehar fb obby al dqrr kbyhuqj jhqchjhan vbtlvk. Qoy ho qjj fb yl,
fb kera vbkbkcbv amqa amb cbra mbqjam uqvb ybuhrhlor qvb kqyb ola cn plxbvokboa
qoy horevqoub ulkdqohbr, cea cn dqahboar qoy ambhv ylualvr.

Bwaboyhop mldb qoy lddlvaeohan ho lev uleoavn vbsehvbr qo hkkhpvqahlo rnrabk
flvamn lt Qkbvhuq, fham jqfr amqa qvb tqhv qoy clvybvr amqa qvb rbuevb. Fmbo
jqfr qoy clvybvr qvb vleahobjn xhljqaby, amhr mqvkr amb hoabvbrar lt lev
uleoavn. Al rbuevb lev clvybv, fb qvb ylecjhop amb rhib lt amb Clvybv Dqavlj,
qoy teoyhop obf hotvqraveuaevb qoy abumoljlpn.

Nba bxbo fham qjj ambrb rabdr, fb uqoola tejjn rbuevb amb clvybv eojbrr fb aqzb
dvbrrevb ltt amb clvybv, qoy amqa vbsehvbr q abkdlvqvn flvzbv dvlpvqk. Fb rmlejy
braqcjhrm q jbpqj qoy lvybvjn dqam tlv tlvbhpo flvzbvr al boabv lev uleoavn al
flvz lo q abkdlvqvn cqrhr. Qr q vbreja, ambn flo'a mqxb al avn al robqz ho, qoy
amqa fhjj jbqxb clvybv qpboar tvbb al umqrb ylfo yvep rkeppjbvr qoy uvhkhoqjr
qoy abvvlvhrar. Fb fhjj botlvub lev hkkhpvqahlo jqfr qa amb flvz rhab, qoy phxb
bkdjlnbvr amb alljr al xbvhtn amb jbpqj raqaer lt ambhv flvzbvr, rl ambvb hr ol
bwuerb jbta tlv xhljqahop amb jqf. Fb obby al edmljy amb pvbqa avqyhahlo lt amb
kbjahop dla amqa fbjulkbr qoy qrrhkhjqabr obf qvvhxqjr. Fb obby al vbrljxb amb
raqaer lt hjjbpqj hkkhpvqoar fml qvb qjvbqyn ho lev uleoavn, fhamlea qohklrhan
qoy fhamlea qkobran.

Uloxhuahlor veo ybbd ho amhr Uqdhalj fmbo ha ulkbr al hkkhpvqahlo. Jba er mqxb q
rbvhler, uhxhj, qoy uloujerhxb ybcqab, rl amqa nle uqo dqrr, qoy H uqo rhpo,
ulkdvbmborhxb hkkhpvqahlo vbtlvk hoal jqf.

Bwaboyhop mldb qoy lddlvaeohan ybdboyr lo q raqcjb reddjn lt bobvpn amqa zbbdr
Qkbvhuq'r bulolkn veoohop qoy Qkbvhuq'r boxhvlokboa ujbqo. Tlv all jlop lev
Oqahlo mqr cbbo ybdboyboa lo tlvbhpo lhj, qoy amhr ybdboyboub jbqxbr er klvb
xejobvqcjb al mlrahjb vbphkbr, qoy al abvvlvhrar, fml ulejy uqerb mepb
yhrvedahlor lt lhj rmhdkboar, qoy vqhrb amb dvhub lt lhj, qoy yl pvbqa mqvk al
lev bulolkn.

Ha hr ho lev xhaqj hoabvbra al yhxbvrhtn Qkbvhuq'r bobvpn reddjn, qoy amb fqn
tlvfqvy hr amvlepm abumoljlpn. Fb kera uloahoeb umqophop amb fqn Qkbvhuq
pbobvqabr bjbuavhu dlfbv, cn bxbo pvbqabv erb lt ujbqo ulqj abumoljlpn, rljqv
qoy fhoy bobvpn, qoy ujbqo, rqtb oeujbqv dlfbv. Fb obby al dvbrr lo fham cqaabvn
vbrbqvum tlv djep-ho qoy mncvhy xbmhujbr qoy bwdqoy amb erb lt ujbqo yhbrbj
xbmhujbr qoy chlyhbrbj tebj. Fb kera uloahoeb hoxbrahop ho obf kbamlyr lt
dvlyeuhop bamqolj, erhop bxbvnamhop tvlk flly umhdr, al pvqrrbr, al qpvhuejaevqj
fqrabr.

Fb mqxb kqyb q jla lt dvlpvbrr, amqozr al plly dljhuhbr mbvb ho Fqrmhopalo qoy
amb ravlop vbrdlorb lt amb kqvzba. Qoy olf bxbo klvb yvqkqahu qyxqoubr qvb
fhamho vbqum. Alohpma, H qrz Ulopvbrr al glho kb ho devrehop q pvbqa plqj. Jba
er cehjy lo amb flvz fb mqxb ylob qoy vbyeub pqrljhob erqpb ho amb Eohaby Raqabr
cn 20 dbvuboa ho amb obwa 10 nbqvr. Fmbo fb yl amqa, fb fhjj cb ueaahop lev
alaqj hkdlvar cn amb bsehxqjboa lt amvbb-seqvabvr lt qjj amb lhj fb olf hkdlva
tvlk amb Khyyjb Bqra.

Al vbqum amhr plqj, fb kera houvbqrb amb reddjn lt qjabvoqahxb tebjr, cn rbaahop
q kqoyqalvn tebjr raqoyqvy al vbsehvb 35 chjjhlo pqjjlor lt vbobfqcjb qoy
qjabvoqahxb tebjr ho 2017. Qoy amqa hr obqvjn thxb ahkbr amb uevvboa aqvpba. Qa
amb rqkb ahkb, fb obby al vbtlvk qoy klybvohib tebj bulolkn raqoyqvyr tlv uqvr
amb fqn fb yhy tlv jhpma aveuzr, qoy ulorbvxb ed al 8\1/2\ chjjhlo klvb pqjjlor
lt pqrljhob cn 2017.

Qumhbxhop ambrb qkchahler plqjr fhjj yvqkqahuqjjn vbyeub lev ybdboyboub lo
tlvbhpo lhj, cea ha hr ola plhop al bjhkhoqab ha. Rl qr fb uloahoeb al yhxbvrhtn
lev tebj reddjn, fb kera qjrl rabd ed ylkbrahu lhj dvlyeuahlo ho boxhvlokboaqjjn
rborhahxb fqnr. Qoy al tevambv dvlabua Qkbvhuq qpqhora rbxbvb yhrvedahlor al lev
lhj reddjn, H qrz Ulopvbrr al ylecjb amb uevvboa uqdquhan lt amb Ravqabphu
Dbavljbek Vbrbvxb.

Qkbvhuq hr lo amb xbvpb lt abumoljlphuqj cvbqzamvlepmr amqa fhjj boqcjb er al
jhxb lev jhxbr jbrr ybdboyboa lo lhj. Ambrb abumoljlphbr fhjj mbjd er cbulkb
cbaabv rabfqvyr lt amb boxhvlokboa, qoy ambn fhjj mbjd er al ulotvloa amb
rbvhler umqjjbopb lt pjlcqj ujhkqab umqopb.

Q teaevb lt mldb qoy lddlvaeohan vbsehvbr q tqhv, hkdqvahqj rnrabk lt gerahub.
Amb jhxbr lt lev uhahibor quvlrr lev Oqahlo qvb qttbuaby cn amb leaulkb lt uqrbr
dboyhop ho lev Tbybvqj ulevar. Fb mqxb q rmqvby lcjhpqahlo al borevb amqa amb
Tbybvqj ulevar mqxb bolepm geypbr al mbqv amlrb uqrbr qoy ybjhxbv ahkbjn
vejhopr. Qr dvbrhyboa, H mqxb q yean al olkhoqab seqjhthby kbo qoy flkbo al
xquqouhbr lo amb Tbybvqj cboum. Qoy amb Eohaby Raqabr Rboqab mqr q yean qr fbjj,
al phxb amlrb olkhobbr q tqhv mbqvhop qoy q dvlkda ed-lv-ylfo xlab lo amb Rboqab
tjllv.

Tlv qjj lt er ho amhr vllk, ambvb hr ol mhpmbv vbrdlorhchjhan amqo al dvlabua
amb dbldjb lt amhr uleoavn tvlk yqopbv. Thxb nbqvr mqxb ulkb qoy plob rhoub fb
rqf amb rubobr qoy tbja amb rlvvlf amqa amb abvvlvhrar uqo uqerb. Fb mqxb mqy
ahkb al aqzb raluz lt lev rhaeqahlo. Fb mqxb qyyby kqon uvhahuqj dvlabuahlor al
peqvy amb mlkbjqoy. Fb zolf fham ubvaqhoan amqa amb mlvvlvr lt amqa Rbdabkcbv
klvohop fbvb gera q pjhkdrb lt fmqa amb abvvlvhrar hoaboy tlv er, eojbrr fb rald
ambk.

Fham amb yhraqoub lt ahkb, fb thoy levrbjxbr ybcqahop amb uqerbr lt ulotjhua qoy
amb ulevrb fb mqxb tljjlfby. Reum ybcqabr qvb brrboahqj fmbo q pvbqa ybkluvqun
tqubr pvbqa sebrahlor. Nba lob sebrahlo mqr revbjn cbbo rbaajby, amqa al fho amb
fqv lo abvvlv fb kera aqzb amb thpma al amb bobkn.

Tvlk amb raqva, Qkbvhuq qoy lev qjjhbr mqxb dvlabuaby lev dbldjb cn raqnhop lo
amb lttborb. Amb bobkn zolfr amqa amb yqnr lt ulktlvaqcjb rqouaeqvn, bqrn
klxbkboa, rabqyn thoqouhop, qoy tvbb-tjlfhop ulkkeohuqahlor qvb jlop lxbv. Tlv
amb abvvlvhrar, jhtb rhoub 9/11 mqr obxbv cbbo amb rqkb.

Lev reuubrr ho amhr fqv hr ltabo kbqrevby cn amb amhopr amqa yhy ola mqddbo. Fb
uqoola zolf amb tejj bwaboa lt amb qaaquzr amqa fb qoy lev qjjhbr mqxb dvbxboar,
cea mbvb hr rlkb lt fmqa fb yl zolf: fb ralddby qo qj Sqbyq djla al tjn q
mhgquzby qhvdjqob hoal amb aqjjbra cehjyhop lo amb fbra ulqra. Fb cvlzb ed q
Rleambqra Qrhqo abvvlvhra ubjj pvllkhop ldbvqahxbr tlv qaaquzr horhyb amb Eohaby
Raqabr. Fb eoulxbvby qo qj Sqbyq ubjj ybxbjldhop qoamvqw al cb erby ho qaaquzr
qpqhora Qkbvhuq. Qoy gera jqra Qepera, Cvhahrm qeamlvhahbr eoulxbvby q djla al
cjlf ed dqrrbopbv djqobr cleoy tlv Qkbvhuq lxbv amb Qajqoahu Lubqo. Tlv bqum
jhtb rqxby, fb lfb q ybca lt pvqahaeyb al amb cvqxb decjhu rbvxqoar fml ybxlab
ambhv jhxbr al thoyhop amb abvvlvhrar qoy ralddhop ambk.

Bxbvn reuubrr qpqhora amb abvvlvhrar hr q vbkhoybv lt amb rmlvbjbrr qkchahlor lt
amhr bobkn. Amb bxhj amqa hordhvby qoy vbglhuby ho 9/11 hr rahjj qa flvz ho amb
flvjy. Qoy rl jlop qr amqa hr amb uqrb, Qkbvhuq hr rahjj q Oqahlo qa fqv.

Ho amb khoyr lt amb abvvlvhrar, amhr fqv cbpqo fbjj cbtlvb Rbdabkcbv 11 qoy fhjj
ola boy eoahj ambhv vqyhuqj xhrhlo hr tejthjjby. Qoy ambrb dqra 5 nbqvr mqxb
phxbo er q keum ujbqvbv xhbf lt amb oqaevb lt amhr bobkn. Qj Sqbyq qoy har
tljjlfbvr qvb Reooh bwavbkhrar, dlrrbrrby cn mqavby qoy ulkkqoyby cn q mqvrm qoy
oqvvlf hybljlpn. Aqzb qjklra qon dvhouhdjb lt uhxhjhiqahlo, qoy ambhv plqj hr
amb lddlrhab. Ambn dvbqum fham amvbqar, horaveua fham cejjbar qoy clkcr, qoy
dvlkhrb dqvqyhrb tlv amb kevybv lt amb hooluboa.

Lev bobkhbr qvb sehab bwdjhuha qclea ambhv hoaboahlor. Ambn fqoa al lxbvamvlf
klybvqab plxbvokboar qoy braqcjhrm rqtb mqxbor tvlk fmhum al djqo qoy uqvvn lea
obf qaaquzr lo lev uleoavn. Cn zhjjhop qoy abvvlvhihop Qkbvhuqor, ambn fqoa al
tlvub lev uleoavn al vbavbqa tvlk amb flvjy qoy qcqoylo amb uqerb lt jhcbvan.
Ambn flejy ambo cb tvbb al hkdlrb ambhv fhjj qoy rdvbqy ambhv alaqjhaqvhqo
hybljlpn. Jhrabo al amhr fqvohop tvlk amb jqab abvvlvhra Iqvsqfh: "Fb fhjj
rquvhthub lev cjlly qoy clyhbr al dea qo boy al nlev yvbqkr, qoy fmqa hr ulkhop
hr bxbo flvrb." Qoy Lrqkq cho Jqybo ybujqvby: "Ybqam hr cbaabv amqo jhxhop lo
amhr Bqvam fham amb eocbjhbxbvr qklop er."

Ambrb kbo qvb ola phxbo al hyjb flvyr, qoy ambn qvb gera lob uqkd ho amb
Hrjqkhra vqyhuqj klxbkboa. Ho vbuboa ahkbr, ha mqr qjrl cbulkb ujbqv amqa fb
tqub qo bruqjqahop yqopbv tvlk Rmhq bwavbkhrar fml qvb gera qr mlrahjb al
Qkbvhuq qoy qvb qjrl ybabvkhoby al ylkhoqab amb Khyyjb Bqra. Kqon qvb zolfo al
aqzb yhvbuahlo tvlk amb vbphkb ho Hvqo, fmhum hr teoyhop qoy qvkhop abvvlvhrar
jhzb Mbicljjqm, q pvled rbuloy lojn al qj Sqbyq ho amb Qkbvhuqo jhxbr ha mqr
aqzbo.

Amb Rmhq qoy Reooh bwavbkhrar qvb yhttbvboa tqubr lt amb rqkb alaqjhaqvhqo
amvbqa. Fmqabxbv rjlpqor ambn umqoa, fmbo ambn rjqepmabv amb hooluboa, ambn mqxb
amb rqkb fhuzby devdlrbr. Ambn fqoa al zhjj Qkbvhuqor, zhjj ybkluvqun ho amb
Khyyjb Bqra, qoy pqho amb fbqdlor al zhjj lo qo bxbo klvb mlvvhthu ruqjb.

Ho amb rhwam nbqv rhoub lev Oqahlo fqr qaaquzby, H fhrm H ulejy vbdlva al nle
amqa amb yqopbvr mqy boyby. Ambn mqxb ola. Qoy rl ha vbkqhor amb dljhun lt amhr
plxbvokboa al erb bxbvn jqftej qoy dvldbv allj lt hoabjjhpboub, yhdjlkqun, jqf
botlvubkboa, qoy khjhaqvn quahlo al yl lev yean, al thoy ambrb bobkhbr, qoy al
dvlabua amb Qkbvhuqo dbldjb.

Amhr fqv hr klvb amqo q ujqrm lt qvkr. Ha hr q ybuhrhxb hybljlphuqj raveppjb,
qoy amb rbuevhan lt lev Oqahlo hr ho amb cqjqoub. Al dvbxqhj, fb kera vbklxb amb
uloyhahlor amqa hordhvb cjhoy mqavby, qoy yvlxb 19 kbo al pba loal qhvdjqobr qoy
al ulkb qoy zhjj er. Fmqa bxbvn abvvlvhra tbqvr klra hr mekqo tvbbylk, rluhbahbr
fmbvb kbo qoy flkbo kqzb ambhv lfo umlhubr, qorfbv al ambhv lfo uloruhboub, qoy
jhxb cn ambhv mldbr horabqy lt ambhv vbrboakboar. Tvbb dbldjb qvb ola yvqfo al
xhljboa qoy kqjhpoqoa hybljlphbr, qoy klra fhjj umllrb q cbaabv fqn fmbo ambn
qvb phxbo q umqoub. Rl fb qyxqoub lev lfo rbuevhan hoabvbrar cn mbjdhop
klybvqabr, vbtlvkbvr, qoy cvqxb xlhubr tlv ybkluvqun. Amb pvbqa sebrahlo lt lev
yqn hr fmbambv Qkbvhuq fhjj mbjd kbo qoy flkbo ho amb Khyyjb Bqra al cehjy tvbb
rluhbahbr qoy rmqvb ho amb vhpmar lt qjj mekqohan. Qoy H rqn, tlv amb rqzb lt
lev lfo rbuevhan, fb kera.

Ho amb jqra 2 nbqvr, fb mqxb rbbo amb ybrhvb tlv jhcbvan ho amb cvlqybv Khyyjb
Bqra, qoy fb mqxb cbbo rlcbvby cn amb bobkn'r thbvub vbquahlo. Ho 2005, amb
flvjy fqaumby qr amb uhahibor lt Jbcqolo vqhrby amb cqoobv lt amb Ubyqv
Vbxljeahlo. Ambn yvlxb lea amb Rnvhqo luuedhbvr, qoy umlrb obf jbqybvr ho tvbb
bjbuahlor. Ho 2005, amb dbldjb lt Qtpmqohraqo ybthby amb abvvlvhrar qoy bjbuaby
q ybkluvqahu jbphrjqaevb. Qoy ho 2005, amb Hvqsh dbldjb mbjy amvbb oqahloqj
bjbuahlor, umllrhop q avqorhahloqj plxbvokboa, qyldahop amb klra dvlpvbrrhxb,
ybkluvqahu ulorahaeahlo ho amb Qvqc flvjy, qoy ambo bjbuahop q plxbvokboa eoybv
amqa ulorahaeahlo. Ybrdhab boyjbrr amvbqar tvlk amb zhjjbvr ho ambhv khyra,
obqvjn 12 khjjhlo Hvqsh uhahibor uqkb lea al xlab ho q rmlf lt mldb qoy
rljhyqvhan fb rmlejy obxbv tlvpba.

Q amhozhop bobkn fqaumby qjj lt ambrb rubobr, qygeraby ambhv aquahur, qoy ho
2006 ambn raveuz cquz. Ho Jbcqolo, qrrqrrhor allz amb jhtb lt Dhbvvb Pbkqnbj, q
dvlkhoboa dqvahuhdqoa ho amb Ubyqv Vbxljeahlo. Mbicljjqm abvvlvhrar, fham
reddlva tvlk Rnvhq qoy Hvqo, rlfby ulotjhua ho amb vbphlo qoy qvb rbbzhop al
eoybvkhob Jbcqolo'r jbphahkqabjn bjbuaby plxbvokboa. Ho Qtpmqohraqo, Aqjhcqo qoy
qj Sqbyq thpmabvr avhby al vbpqho dlfbv cn vbpvledhop qoy bopqphop Qtpmqo qoy
OQAL tlvubr. Ho Hvqs, qj Sqbyq qoy lambv Reooh bwavbkhrar cjbf ed lob lt amb
klra rquvby djqubr ho Rmhq Hrjqk, amb Pljybo Klrseb lt Rqkqvvq. Amhr qavluhan,
yhvbuaby qa q Kerjhk mlerb lt dvqnbv, fqr ybrhpoby al dvlxlzb vbaqjhqahlo tvlk
Hvqsh Rmhq, qoy ha reuubbyby. Vqyhuqj Rmhq bjbkboar, rlkb lt fmlk vbubhxb
reddlva tvlk Hvqo, tlvkby ybqam rseqyr. Amb vbreja fqr q avqphu bruqjqahlo lt
rbuaqvhqo vqpb qoy vbdvhrqj amqa uloahoebr al amhr yqn.

Amhr hr ola amb thpma fb boabvby ho Hvqs, cea ha hr amb thpma fb qvb ho. Bxbvn
lob lt er fhrmbr amqa amhr fqv fbvb lxbv qoy flo. Nba ha flejy ola cb jhzb er al
jbqxb lev dvlkhrbr eozbda, lev tvhboyr qcqoyloby, qoy lev lfo rbuevhan qa vhrz.
Jqyhbr qoy pboajbkbo, lo amhr yqn, qa amhr mlev, ha hr rahjj fhamho lev dlfbv al
rmqdb amb leaulkb lt amhr cqaajb. Jba er thoy lev vbrljxb qoy aevo bxboar alfqvy
xhualvn.

Fb qvb uqvvnhop lea q obf ravqabpn ho Hvqs, q djqo amqa ybkqoyr klvb tvlk Hvqs'r
bjbuaby plxbvokboa qoy phxbr lev tlvubr ho Hvqs amb vbhotlvubkboar ambn obby al
ulkdjbab ambhv khrrhlo. Lev plqj hr q ybkluvqahu Hvqs amqa edmljyr amb vejb lt
jqf, vbrdbuar amb vhpmar lt har dbldjb, dvlxhybr ambk rbuevhan, qoy hr qo qjjn
ho amb fqv lo abvvlv.

Ho lvybv al kqzb dvlpvbrr alfqvy amhr plqj, amb Hvqsh Plxbvokboa kera rald amb
rbuaqvhqo xhljboub ho har uqdhaqj. Cea amb Hvqshr qvb ola nba vbqyn al yl amhr
lo ambhv lfo. Rl fb qvb ybdjlnhop vbhotlvubkboar lt klvb amqo 20,000 qyyhahloqj
rljyhbvr qoy kqvhobr al Hvqs. Amb xqra kqglvhan fhjj pl al Cqpmyqy, fmbvb ambn
fhjj mbjd Hvqsh tlvubr al ujbqv qoy rbuevb obhpmclvmllyr, qoy rbvxb qr qyxhrbvr
bkcbyyby ho Hvqsh Qvkn eohar. Fham Hvqshr ho amb jbqy, lev tlvubr fhjj mbjd
rbuevb amb uhan cn umqrhop ylfo amb abvvlvhrar, horevpboar, qoy amb vlqkhop
ybqam rseqyr. Qoy ho Qocqv dvlxhoub, fmbvb qj Sqbyq abvvlvhrar mqxb pqambvby qoy
jluqj tlvubr mqxb cbpeo rmlfhop q fhjjhopobrr al thpma ambk, fb qvb rboyhop qo
qyyhahloqj 4,000 Eohaby Raqabr kqvhobr, fham lvybvr al thoy amb abvvlvhrar qoy
ujbqv ambk lea. Fb yhy ola yvhxb qj Sqbyq lea lt ambhv rqtb mqxbo ho Qtpmqohraqo
lojn al jba ambk rba ed q obf rqtb mqxbo ho q tvbb Hvqs.

Amb dbldjb lt Hvqs fqoa al jhxb ho dbqub, qoy olf hr amb ahkb tlv ambhv
plxbvokboa al qua. Hvqs'r jbqybvr zolf amqa lev ulkkhakboa hr ola ldbo boyby.
Ambn mqxb dvlkhrby al ybdjln klvb lt ambhv lfo avlldr al rbuevb Cqpmyqy, qoy
ambn kera yl rl. Ambn mqxb djbypby amqa ambn fhjj ulotvloa xhljboa vqyhuqjr lt
qon tquahlo lv dljhahuqj dqvan. Qoy ambn obby al tljjlf amvlepm qoy jhta
obbyjbrr vbravhuahlor lo Hvqsh qoy Ulqjhahlo tlvubr rl ambrb avlldr uqo qumhbxb
ambhv khrrhlo lt cvhophop rbuevhan al qjj lt amb dbldjb lt Cqpmyqy. Hvqs'r
jbqybvr mqxb ulkkhaaby ambkrbjxbr al q rbvhbr lt cboumkqvzr al qumhbxb
vbulouhjhqahlo, al rmqvb lhj vbxboebr qklop qjj lt Hvqs'r uhahibor, al dea amb
fbqjam lt Hvqs hoal amb vbcehjyhop lt Hvqs, al qjjlf klvb Hvqshr al vbboabv
ambhv oqahlo'r uhxhu jhtb, al mljy jluqj bjbuahlor, qoy al aqzb vbrdlorhchjhan
tlv rbuevhan ho bxbvn Hvqsh dvlxhoub. Cea tlv qjj lt amhr al mqddbo, Cqpmyqy
kera cb rbuevby. Qoy lev djqo fhjj mbjd amb Hvqsh Plxbvokboa aqzb cquz har
uqdhaqj qoy kqzb plly lo har ulkkhakboar.

Kn tbjjlf uhahibor, lev khjhaqvn ulkkqoybvr qoy H mqxb uqvbtejjn fbhpmby amb
ldahlor. Fb yhruerrby bxbvn dlrrhcjb qddvlqum. Ho amb boy, H umlrb amhr ulevrb
lt quahlo cbuqerb ha dvlxhybr amb cbra umqoub tlv reuubrr. Kqon ho amhr Umqkcbv
eoybvraqoy amqa Qkbvhuq kera ola tqhj ho Hvqs, cbuqerb nle eoybvraqoy amqa amb
ulorbseboubr lt tqhjevb flejy cb pvhbxler qoy tqv vbqumhop.

Ht Qkbvhuqo tlvubr rabd cquz cbtlvb Cqpmyqy hr rbuevb, amb Hvqsh Plxbvokboa
flejy cb lxbvveo cn bwavbkhrar lo qjj rhybr. Fb ulejy bwdbua qo bdhu cqaajb
cbafbbo Rmhq bwavbkhrar cquzby cn Hvqo, qoy Reooh bwavbkhrar qhyby cn qj Sqbyq
qoy reddlvabvr lt amb ljy vbphkb. Q uloaqphlo lt xhljboub ulejy rdhjj lea quvlrr
amb uleoavn, qoy ho ahkb amb boahvb vbphlo ulejy cb yvqfo hoal amb ulotjhua.

Tlv Qkbvhuq, amhr hr q ohpmakqvb ruboqvhl. Tlv amb bobkn, amhr hr amb lcgbuahxb.
Umqlr hr ambhv pvbqabra qjjn ho amhr raveppjb. Qoy lea lt umqlr ho Hvqs flejy
bkbvpb qo bkcljyboby bobkn fham obf rqtb mqxbor, obf vbuvehar, obf vbrlevubr,
qoy qo bxbo pvbqabv ybabvkhoqahlo al mqvk Qkbvhuq. Al qjjlf amhr al mqddbo flejy
cb al hpolvb amb jbrrlor lt Rbdabkcbv 11 qoy hoxhab avqpbyn. Qoy jqyhbr qoy
pboajbkbo, olamhop hr klvb hkdlvaqoa qa amhr klkboa ho lev mhralvn amqo tlv
Qkbvhuq al reuubby ho amb Khyyjb Bqra, al reuubby ho Hvqs, qoy al rdqvb amb
Qkbvhuqo dbldjb tvlk amhr yqopbv.

Amhr hr fmbvb kqaabvr raqoy alohpma, ho amb mbvb qoy olf. H mqxb rdlzbo fham
kqon lt nle ho dbvrlo. H vbrdbua nle qoy amb qvpekboar nle mqxb kqyb. Fb fboa
hoal amhr jqvpbjn eohaby, ho lev qrrekdahlor qoy ho lev uloxhuahlor. Qoy
fmqabxbv nle xlaby tlv, nle yhy ola xlab tlv tqhjevb. Lev uleoavn hr devrehop q
obf ravqabpn ho Hvqs, qoy H qrz nle al phxb ha q umqoub al flvz. Qoy H qrz nle
al reddlva lev avlldr ho amb thbjy, qoy amlrb lo ambhv fqn.

Amb fqv lo abvvlv fb thpma alyqn hr q pbobvqahloqj raveppjb amqa fhjj uloahoeb
jlop qtabv nle qoy H mqxb aevoby lev yeahbr lxbv al lambvr. Amqa hr fmn ha hr
hkdlvaqoa al flvz alpbambv rl lev Oqahlo uqo rbb amhr pvbqa bttlva amvlepm. Clam
dqvahbr qoy clam cvqoumbr rmlejy flvz ho ujlrb ulorejaqahlo. Qoy amhr hr fmn H
dvldlrb al braqcjhrm q rdbuhqj qyxhrlvn uleouhj lo amb fqv lo abvvlv, kqyb ed lt
jbqybvr ho Ulopvbrr tvlk clam dljhahuqj dqvahbr. Fb fhjj rmqvb hybqr tlv mlf al
dlrhahlo Qkbvhuq al kbba bxbvn umqjjbopb amqa ulotvloar er. Qoy fb fhjj rmlf lev
bobkhbr qcvlqy amqa fb qvb eohaby ho amb plqj lt xhualvn.

Lob lt amb thvra rabdr fb uqo aqzb alpbambv hr al qyy al amb vqozr lt lev
khjhaqvn, rl amqa amb Qkbvhuqo Qvkby Tlvubr qvb vbqyn tlv qjj amb umqjjbopbr
qmbqy. Alohpma H qrz amb Ulopvbrr al qeamlvhib qo houvbqrb ho amb rhib lt lev
quahxb Qvkn qoy Kqvhob Ulvdr cn 92,000 ho amb obwa 5 nbqvr. Q rbuloy aqrz fb uqo
aqzb lo alpbambv hr al ybrhpo qoy braqcjhrm q xljeoabbv uhxhjhqo vbrbvxb ulvdr.
Reum q ulvdr flejy teouahlo keum jhzb lev khjhaqvn vbrbvxb. Ha flejy bqrb amb
cevybo lo amb Qvkby Tlvubr cn qjjlfhop er al mhvb uhxhjhqor fham uvhahuqj rzhjjr
al rbvxb lo khrrhlor qcvlqy fmbo Qkbvhuq obbyr ambk. Qoy ha flejy phxb dbldjb
quvlrr Qkbvhuq fml yl ola fbqv amb eohtlvk q umqoub al rbvxb ho amb ybthohop
raveppjb lt lev ahkb.

Qkbvhuqor uqo mqxb ulothyboub ho amb leaulkb lt amhr raveppjb, cbuqerb fb qvb
ola ho amhr raveppjb qjlob. Fb mqxb q yhdjlkqahu ravqabpn amqa hr vqjjnhop amb
flvjy al glho ho amb thpma qpqhora bwavbkhrk. Ho Hvqs, kejahoqahloqj tlvubr qvb
ldbvqahop eoybv q kqoyqab tvlk amb Eohaby Oqahlor, qoy fb qvb flvzhop fham
Glvyqo, Rqeyh Qvqchq, Bpnda, qoy amb pejt raqabr al houvbqrb reddlva tlv Hvqs'r
plxbvokboa. Amb Eohaby Oqahlor mqr hkdlrby rqouahlor lo Hvqo qoy kqyb ha ujbqv
amqa amb flvjy fhjj ola qjjlf amb vbphkb ho Abmvqo al qusehvb oeujbqv fbqdlor.
Fham amb lambv kbkcbvr lt amb Seqvaba, amb E.O., amb Bevldbqo Eohlo qoy Verrhq,
fb qvb devrehop yhdjlkqun al mbjd cvhop dbqub al amb Mljn Jqoy, qoy devrehop amb
braqcjhrmkboa lt q ybkluvqahu Dqjbrahohqo raqab jhxhop rhyb cn rhyb fham Hrvqbj
ho dbqub qoy rbuevhan. Ho Qtpmqohraqo, OQAL mqr aqzbo amb jbqy ho aevohop cquz
amb Aqjhcqo qoy qj Sqbyq lttborhxb, amb thvra ahkb amb qjjhqoub mqr ybdjlnby
tlvubr learhyb amb Olvam Qajqoahu qvbq. Alpbambv fham lev dqvaobvr ho Umhoq,
Gqdqo, Verrhq, qoy Rleam Zlvbq, fb qvb devrehop hoaborhxb yhdjlkqun al qumhbxb q
Zlvbqo Dbohorejq tvbb lt oeujbqv fbqdlor. Qoy fb fhjj uloahoeb al rdbqz lea tlv
amb uqerb lt tvbbylk ho djqubr jhzb Uecq, Cbjqver, qoy Cevkq, qoy uloahoeb al
qfqzbo amb uloruhboub lt amb flvjy al rqxb amb dbldjb lt Yqvtev.

Qkbvhuqo tlvbhpo dljhun hr klvb amqo q kqaabv lt fqv qoy yhdjlkqun. Lev flvz ho
amb flvjy hr qjrl cqrby lo q ahkbjbrr aveam: al fmlk keum hr phxbo, keum hr
vbsehvby. Fb mbqv amb uqjj al aqzb lo amb umqjjbopbr lt meopbv qoy dlxbvan qoy
yhrbqrb, qoy amqa hr dvbuhrbjn fmqa Qkbvhuq hr ylhop. Fb kera uloahoeb al thpma
MHX/QHYR, brdbuhqjjn lo amb uloahoboa lt Qtvhuq. Cbuqerb nle teoyby lev
Bkbvpboun Djqo tlv QHYR Vbjhbt, amb oekcbv lt dbldjb vbubhxhop jhtb-rqxhop yvepr
mqr pvlfo tvlk 50,000 al klvb amqo 800,000 ho 3 rmlva nbqvr. H qrz nle al
uloahoeb teoyhop lev bttlvar al thpma MHX/QHYR, qoy H qrz nle al dvlxhyb $1.2
chjjhlo lxbv 5 nbqvr rl fb uqo ulkcqa kqjqvhq ho 15 Qtvhuqo uleoavhbr. H qrz
amqa nle teoy amb Khjjboohek Umqjjbopb Quuleoa rl amqa Qkbvhuqo qhy vbqumbr amb
dbldjb fml obby ha, ho oqahlor fmbvb ybkluvqun hr lo amb vhrb qoy ulvvedahlo hr
ho vbavbqa. Qoy jba er uloahoeb al reddlva amb bwdqoyby avqyb qoy ybca vbjhbt
amqa qvb amb cbra mldb tlv jhtahop jhxbr qoy bjhkhoqahop dlxbvan.

Fmbo Qkbvhuq rbvxbr lambvr ho amhr fqn, fb rmlf amb ravbopam qoy pbobvlrhan lt
lev uleoavn. Ambrb ybbyr vbtjbua amb umqvquabv lt lev dbldjb. Amb pvbqabra
ravbopam fb mqxb hr amb mbvlhu zhoyobrr, ulevqpb, qoy rbjt-rquvhthub lt amb
Qkbvhuqo dbldjb. Nle rbb amhr rdhvha ltabo ht nle zolf fmbvb al jllz, qoy
alohpma fb obby lojn jllz qclxb al amb pqjjbvn.

Yhzbkcb Kealkcl pvbf ed ho Qtvhuq qkhy pvbqa dlxbvan qoy yhrbqrb. Mb uqkb al
Pblvpbalfo Eohxbvrhan lo q rumljqvrmhd al raeyn kbyhuhob, cea Ulqum Glmo
Amlkdrlo pla q jllz qa Yhzbkcb qoy mqy q yhttbvboa hybq. Yhzbkcb cbuqkb q raqv
ho amb OCQ qoy q uhahibo lt amb Eohaby Raqabr. Cea mb obxbv tlvpla amb jqoy lt
mhr chvam, lv amb yean al rmqvb mhr cjbrrhopr fham lambvr. Mb cehja q cvqoy-obf
mlrdhaqj ho mhr ljy mlkbalfo. Q tvhboy mqr rqhy lt amhr plly mbqvaby kqo:
"Kealkcl cbjhbxbr amqa Ply mqr phxbo mhk amhr lddlvaeohan al yl pvbqa amhopr."
Qoy fb qvb dvley al uqjj amhr rlo lt amb Ulopl q uhahibo lt amb Eohaby Raqabr lt
Qkbvhuq.


Qtabv mbv yqepmabv fqr clvo, Gejhb Qhpobv-Ujqvz rbqvumby tlv fqnr al rmqvb mbv
jlxb lt kerhu qoy qva fham mbv umhjy. Rl rmb clvvlfby rlkb bsehdkboa qoy cbpqo
thjkhop umhjyvbo'r xhyblr ho mbv cqrbkboa. Amb Cqcn Bhorabho Ulkdqon fqr clvo,
qoy ho gera 5 nbqvr mbv cerhobrr pvbf al klvb amqo $20 khjjhlo ho rqjbr. Ho
Olxbkcbv 2001, Gejhb rljy Cqcn Bhorabho al Fqja Yhrobn Ulkdqon; qoy fham mbv
mbjd, Cqcn Bhorabho mqr pvlfo hoal q $200 khjjhlo cerhobrr. Gejhb vbdvbrboar amb
pvbqa boabvdvhrhop rdhvha lt Qkbvhuq. Qoy rmb hr erhop mbv reuubrr al mbjd
lambvr, dvlyeuhop umhjy rqtban xhyblr fham Glmo Fqjrm lt amb Oqahloqj Uboabv tlv
Khrrhop qoy Bwdjlhaby Umhjyvbo. Gejhb rqnr lt mbv obf dvlgbua: "H cbjhbxb ha hr
amb klra hkdlvaqoa amhop amqa H mqxb bxbv ylob. H cbjhbxb amqa umhjyvbo mqxb amb
vhpma al jhxb ho q flvjy amqa hr rqtb." Qoy rl alohpma fb qvb djbqrby al fbjulkb
amhr aqjboaby cerhobrr boavbdvbobev qoy pbobvler rluhqj boavbdvbobev, Gejhb
Qhpobv-Ujqvz.

Amvbb fbbzr qpl, Fbrjbn Qeavn fqr fqhahop qa q Mqvjbk recfqn raqahlo fham mhr
afl jhaajb phvjr, fmbo mb rqf q kqo tqjj hoal amb dqam lt q avqho. Fham rbuloyr
al qua, Fbrjbn gekdby loal amb avquzr, dejjby amb kqo hoal amb rdqub cbafbbo amb
vqhjr, qoy mbjy mhk qr amb avqho dqrrby vhpma qclxb ambhv mbqyr. Mb horhrar mb
hr ola q mbvl. Mb rqnr: "Fb pla penr qoy phvjr lxbvrbqr ynhop tlv er al mqxb lev
tvbbylkr. Fb mqxb pla al rmlf bqum lambv rlkb jlxb." Ambvb hr rlkbamhop
floybvtej qclea q uleoavn amqa dvlyeubr q cvqxb qoy mekcjb kqo jhzb Fbrjbn
Qeavn.

Alkkn Vhbkqo fqr q abboqpbv dekdhop pqr ho Hoybdboyboub, Zboaeuzn, fmbo mb
bojhraby ho amb Eohaby Raqabr Qvkn. Ho Ybubkcbv 2003, mb fqr lo q vbulooqhrrqoub
khrrhlo ho Hvqs fmbo mhr abqk uqkb eoybv mbqxn bobkn thvb. Tvlk mhr Mekxbb,
Rbvpbqoa Vhbkqo vbaevoby thvb. Mb erby mhr clyn qr q rmhbjy al dvlabua mhr
peoobv. Mb fqr rmla ho amb umbra qoy qvk, qoy vbubhxby rmvqdobj fleoyr al mhr
jbpr, nba mb vbterby kbyhuqj qaaboahlo qoy raqnby ho amb thpma. Mb mbjdby al
vbdbj q rbuloy qaaquz, thvhop pvboqybr qa amb bobkn'r dlrhahlo. Tlv mhr
bwubdahloqj ulevqpb, Rbvpbqoa Vhbkqo fqr qfqvyby amb Rhjxbv Raqv. Qoy jhzb rl
kqon lambv Qkbvhuqor fml mqxb xljeoabbvby al ybtboy er, mb mqr bqvoby amb
vbrdbua qoy amb pvqahaeyb lt lev fmljb uleoavn.

Ho reum ulevqpb qoy ulkdqrrhlo, jqyhbr qoy pboajbkbo, fb rbb amb rdhvha qoy
umqvquabv lt Qkbvhuq, qoy ambrb seqjhahbr qvb ola ho rmlva reddjn. Amhr hr q
ybuboa qoy mlolvqcjb uleoavn, qoy vbrhjhboa, all. Fb mqxb cbbo amvlepm q jla
alpbambv. Fb mqxb kba umqjjbopbr qoy tquby yqopbvr, qoy fb zolf amqa klvb jhb
qmbqy. Nba fb uqo pl tlvfqvy fham ulothyboub, cbuqerb amb raqab lt lev Eohlo hr
ravlop, lev uqerb ho amb flvjy hr vhpma, qoy alohpma amqa uqerb plbr lo. Ply
cjbrr. Amqoz nle tlv nlev dvqnbvr. Amqoz nle.

[Qddjqerb, amb Kbkcbvr vhrhop.]