Zb. Olikwib, Zb. Lbiocxiay, xcoycagscoeix zizribo um Duagbioo, euaubix
gsioyo kax minnup dcycfiao:

C zika yu olikw yuacgey um rcg yecago, um rcg dekagio kax yei lbuzcoio yeih
eunx kax um ouzi rcg lburnizo kax eup yugiyeib pi dka ounqi yeiz kax zuqi
usb dusaybh mubpkbx ko yei saxcolsyix nikxib um yei kgi.

Pi gkyeib yuacgey ky k xbkzkycd kax xiilnh lbuzcocag yczi ca usb ecoyubh,
kax ca yei ecoyubh um zka ua ikbye. Mub ca yei lkoy 12 zuayeo, yei pubnx
eko waupa dekagio um knzuoy rcrncdkn lbulubycuao. Kax iqia aup, zuayeo
kmyib yei mkcnix dusl yeky xuuzix k mkcnix ohoyiz, C kz auy osbi pi ekqi
kroubrix yei msnn czlkdy, yei msnn czluby um peky eklliaix.

Rsy Duzzsacoz xcix yeco hikb. Iqia ko Lbiocxiay, pcye yei zuoy mkodcakycag
luoocrni qkaykgi lucay, yeibi pibi yczio peia C pko ou rsoh einlcag yu
zkakgi lbugbioo kax nikx dekagi yeky C xcxa'y knpkho oeup yei juh yeky pko
ca zh eikby Rsy yei rcggioy yecag yeky eko eklliaix ca yei pubnx ca zh
ncmi, ca usb ncqio, co yeco: Rh yei gbkdi um Gux, Kzibcdk pua yei Dunx Pkb.
Kax yeibi'o kauyeib yu ri ocagnix usy, yeusge cy zkh oiiz cainigkay. C zika
k zkoo um liulni dknnix yei Kzibcdka yktlkhib. Au iqib yecawo yu yekaw yei
liulni peu lkh dusaybh'o rcnn ub ka knnckadi'o rcnn. Rsy mub k eknm Diaysbh
aup, yei Kzibcdka liulni ekqi oeusnxibix yei rsbxia kax lkcx yktio yeky
pibi ecgeib yeka yeih pusnx ekqi riia yu oslluby k ximiaoi yeky pko rcggib
yeka cy pusnx ekqi riia cm czlibckn duzzsacoz ekx aiqib itcoyix. Rsy cy
xcx. Rsy cy xuioa'y kahzubi. Kax eibi co k mkdy C pusnxa'y zcax yei pubnx
kdwaupnixgcag: Yei Kzibcdka yktlkhib rubi yei rbsay um yei rsbxia, kax
xioibqio k esaw um yei gnubh.

Kax ou, aup, mub yei mcboy yczi ca 35 hikbo, usb oybkyigcd ruzribo oykax
xupa. Au nuagib kbi yeih ua busax-yei-dnudw kniby. Yuzubbup usb decnxbia
pcnn gu yu odeuun kax oysxh ecoyubh kax eup lnkayo gbup. Kax yeih pua'y
ekqi, ko zh decnxbia xcx, kcb-bkcx xbcnno ca pecde yeih dbkpn saxib yeicb
xiowo kax duqib yeicb eikxo ca dkoi um asdnikb pkb. Zh gbkaxdecnxbia xua'y
ekqi yu xu yeky, kax pua'y ekqi yei rkx xbikzo decnxbia uadi ekx ca xidkxio
lkoy. Yeibi kbi oycnn yebikyo. Rsy yei nuag xbkpa-usy xbikx co uqib.

K hikb kgu yuacgey C oluwi yu hus ky k zuziay um ecge libcn. Kzibcdka
mubdio ekx jsoy sanikoeix Ulibkycua Xioiby Oyubz. Kax kmyib 40 xkho ca yei
xioiby owcio kax 4 xkho ua yei gbusax, yei zia kax puzia um Kzibcdk'o kbzix
mubdio kax usb knncio kdduzlncoeix yei gukno yeky C xidnkbix, kax yeky hus
iaxuboix: pi ncribkyix Wspkcy.

Ouua kmyib, yei Kbkr pubnx kax Cobkin oky xupa yu yknw oibcusonh, kax
duzlbieiaocqinh, krusy likdi, ka ecoyubcd mcboy. Kax ouua kmyib yeky, ky
Debcoyzko, yei nkoy Kzibcdka euoykgio dkzi euzi. Usb luncdcio pibi
qcaxcdkyix.

Zsde guux dka duzi mbuz yei lbsxiay soi um lupib. Kax zsde guux dka duzi
mbuz yeco: K pubnx uadi xcqcxix cayu ypu kbzix dkzlo aup bidugacfio uai
ouni kax lbi-izcaiay lupib, yei Sacyix Oykyio um Kzibcdk. Kax yeco yeih
bigkbx pcye au xbikx. Mub yei pubnx ybsoyo so pcye lupib, kax yei pubnx co
bcgey. Yeih ybsoy so yu ri mkcb, kax bioybkcaix. Yeih ybsoy so yu ri ua yei
ocxi um xidiadh. Yeih ybsoy so yu xu peky'o bcgey.

C soi yeuoi pubxo kxqcoixnh. K mip xkho kmyib yei pkb rigka, C bidicqix k
yinigbkz mbuz Jukaai Olicdeib, yei pcmi um yei mcboy lcnuy wcnnix ca yei
gsnm, Ncisyiakay Duzzkaxib Oduyy Olicdeib. Iqia ca eib gbcim, oei pkayix zi
yu waup yeky ouzi xkh, peia eib decnxbia pibi unx iausge, oei pusnx yinn
yeiz "yeky yeicb mkyeib piay kpkh yu pkb ridksoi cy pko yei bcgey yecag yu
xu". Oei okcx cy knn. Cy pko yei bcgey yecag yu xu.

Kax pi xcx cy yugiyeib. Yeibi pibi euaioy xcmmibiadio eibi, ca yeco
dekzrib. Rsy peia yei pkb rigka, hus lsy husb lkbycokaoecl kocxi kax
osllubyix usb ybuulo. Yeco co oycnn k yczi mub lbcxi, rsy yeco co au yczi
yu rukoy. Mub lburnizo mkdi so, kax pi zsoy oykax yugiyeib uadi kgkca kax
ounqi yeiz--kax auy niy usb dusaybh xupa.

Ypu hikbo kgu, C rigka lnkaacag dsyo ca zcncykbh oliaxcag yeky bimnidyix
yei dekagio um yei aip ibk. Rsy aup, yeco hikb, pcye Czlibckn Duzzsacoz
guai, yeky lbudioo dka ri kddinibkyix. Yuacgey C dka yinn hus um xbkzkycd
dekagio ca usb oybkyigcd asdnikb mubdi. Yeioi kbi kdycuao pi kbi ykwcag ua
usb upa, ridksoi yeih kbi yei bcgey yecag yu xu.

Kmyib duzlniycag 20 lnkaio mub pecde pi ekqi rigsa lbudsbiziay, pi pcnn
oesy xupa lbuxsdycua um yei R-2 ruzrib. Pi pcnn dkadin yei CDRZ lbugbkz. Pi
pcnn dikoi lbuxsdycua um aip pkbeikxo mub usb oik-rkoix zcoocnio. Pi pcnn
oyul knn lbuxsdycua um yei likdiwiilib zcoocni. Kax pi pcnn auy lsbdekoi
kah zubi kxqkadix dbscoi zcoocnio.

Yeco piiwiax C pcnn ziiy ky Dkzl Xkqcx pcye Rubco Hinyoca um yei Bsoocka
Mixibkycua. C ekqi camubzix Lbiocxiay Hinyoca yeky cm yei duzzuapiknye, yei
mubzib Ouqciy Sacua, pcnn inczcakyi knn nkax-rkoix zsnyclni-pkbeikx
rknncoycd zcoocnio, C pcnn xu yei munnupcag: Pi pcnn inczcakyi knn
Likdiwiilib zcoocnio. Pi pcnn bixsdi yei aszrib um pkbeikxo ua Zcasyizka
zcoocnio yu uai kax bixsdi yei aszrib um pkbeikxo ua usb oik-rkoix zcoocnio
rh krusy uai-yecbx. Kax pi pcnn duaqiby k osroykayckn lubycua um usb
oybkyigcd yu lbczkbcnh duaqiaycuakn soi.

Lbiocxiay Hinyoca'o ikbnh bioluaoi eko riia qibh luocycqi, kax C itlidy usb
yknwo ky Dkzl Xkqcx yu ri mbscymsn. C pkay hus yu waup yeky mub eknm k
diaysbh, Kzibcdka lbiocxiayo ekqi nuagix yu zkwi osde xidcocuao kax okh
osde pubxo. Rsy iqia ca yei zcxoy um dinirbkycua, pi zsoy wiil dksycua ko k
mbciax. Mub yei pubnx co oycnn k xkagibuso lnkdi. Uanh yei xikx ekqi oiia
yei iax um duamncdy. Kax yeusge hioyibxkh'o deknniagio kbi riecax so,
yuzubbup'o kbi ricag ruba.

Yei Oidbiykbh um ximiaoi biduzziaxix yeioi dsyo kmyib duaosnykycua pcye yei
jucay decimo um oykmm. Kax C zkwi yeiz pcye duamcxiadi. Rsy xu auy
zcosaxiboykax zi: Yei bixsdycuao C ekqi kllbuqix pcnn okqi so ka kxxcycuakn
$50 rcnncua uqib yei aity mcqi hikbo. Rh 1997 pi pcnn ekqi dsy ximiaoi rh
30 libdiay ocadi C yuuw ummcdi. Yeioi dsyo kbi xiil, kax hus zsoy waup zh
biounqi: yeco xiil, kax au xiilib. Yu xu nioo pusnx ri caoiaocrni yu
lbugbioo, rsy yu xu zubi pusnx ri cgaubkay um ecoyubh. Pi zsoy auy gu rkdw
yu yei xkho um "yei eunnup kbzh". Pi dkaauy biliky yei zcoykwio zkxi ypcdi
ca yeco diaysbh peia kbzcoycdi pko munnupix rh bidwniooaioo kax ximiaoi pko
lsbgix ko cm yei pubnx pko libzkaiaynh okmi.

C bizcax hus yeco iqiacag yeky C ekqi kowix mub husb oslluby ca msaxcag k
lbugbkz yu lbuyidy usb dusaybh mbuz nczcyix asdnikb zcoocni kyykdw. Pi zsoy
ekqi yeco lbuyidycua ridksoi yuu zkah liulni ca yuu zkah dusaybcio ekqi
kddioo yu asdnikb kbzo. Yeibi kbi yeuoi peu okh yeky aup pi dka ysba kpkh
mbuz yei pubnx, yeky pi ekqi au olidckn buni, au olidckn lnkdi. Rsy pi kbi
yei Sacyix Oykyio um Kzibcdk, yei nikxib um yei Pioy yeky eko riduzi yei
nikxib um yei pubnx.

Ko nuag ko C kz Lbiocxiay pi pcnn duaycasi yu nikx ca oslluby um mbiixuz
iqibhpeibi, auy usy um kbbugkadi kax auy usy um knybscoz, rsy mub yei
okmiyh kax oidsbcyh um usb decnxbia. Yeco co k mkdy: Oybiagye ca yei
lsboscy um likdi co au qcdi; counkycuacoz ca yei lsboscy um oidsbcyh co au
qcbysi.

Aup yu usb ybusrnio ky euzi. Yeih kbi auy knn iduauzcd, rsy yei lbczkbh
lburniz co usb iduauzh. Yeibi kbi ouzi guux ocgao. Camnkycua, yeky yecim,
co xupa, kax cayibioy bkyio kbi xupa. Rsy saizlnuhziay co yuu ecge, ouzi
caxsoybcio kbi ca ybusrni kax gbupye co auy peky cy oeusnx ri. Niy zi yinn
hus bcgey mbuz yei oykby kax bcgey mbuz yei eikby: C waup pi'bi ca ekbx
yczio, rsy C waup ouziyecag inoi: Yeco pcnn auy oykax.

Zh mbciaxo ca yeco dekzrib, pi dka rbcag yei okzi dusbkgi kax oiaoi um
duzzua lsbluoi yu yei iduauzh yeky pi rbusgey yu Xioiby Oyubz. Kax pi dka
ximiky ekbx yczio yugiyeib. C rinciqi hus pcnn einl. Uai bikoua co yeky
hus'bi lkybcuyo, kax hus pkay yei rioy mub husb dusaybh. Kax C rinciqi yeky
ca husb eikbyo hus pkay yu lsy lkbycokaoecl kocxi kax giy yei jur xuai,
ridksoi cy'o yei bcgey yecag yu xu.

Yei lupib um Kzibcdk bioyo ca k oycbbcag rsy oczlni cxik: yeky liulni pcnn
xu gbiky yecago cm uanh hus oiy yeiz mbii. Pinn, pi'bi gucag yu ekqi yu oiy
yei iduauzh mbii, mub cm yeco kgi um zcbkdnio kax puaxibo eko yksgey so
kahyecag, cy'o yeky cm pi dka dekagi yei pubnx, pi dka dekagi Kzibcdk.

Pi zsoy iadusbkgi caqioyziay. Pi zsoy zkwi cy ikocib mub liulni yu caqioy
zuaih kax zkwi aip lbuxsdyo, aip caxsoybcio, kax aip juro. Pi zsoy dnikb
kpkh uroykdnio yu aip gbupye: ecge yktio, ecge bigsnkycua, bix ykli, kax
hio, pkoyimsn guqibaziay oliaxcag. Auai um yeco pcnn ekllia pcye k oakl um
yei mcagibo, rsy cy pcnn ekllia. Kax yei yioy um k lnka coa'y peiyeib cy'o
dknnix aip ub xkffncag. Yei Kzibcdka liulni kbia'y czlbiooix rh gczzcdwo.
Yeih'bi ozkbyib ua yeco odubi yeka knn um so ca yeco buuz. Yei uanh yioy um
k lnka co, Cy co ousax kax pcnn cy pubw? Pi zsoy ekqi k oeuby-yibz lnka yu
kxxbioo usb czzixckyi aiixo kax eiky sl yei iduauzh. Kax yeia pi aiix k
nuag-yibz lnka yu wiil yei duzrsoycua gucag kax yu gskbkayii usb lnkdi ca
yei pubnx iduauzh.

Yeibi kbi dibykca yecago yeky k lbiocxiay dka xu pcyeusy Duagbioo, kax C kz
gucag yu xu yeiz. C ekqi yeco iqiacag kowix zkjub dkrcaiy xilkbyziayo kax
mixibkn kgiadcio yu caoycysyi k 90-xkh zubkyubcsz ua kah aip mixibkn
bigsnkycuao yeky dusnx ecaxib gbupye. Ca yeuoi 90 xkho, zkjub xilkbyziayo
kax kgiadcio pcnn dkbbh usy k yul-yu-ruyyuz biqcip um knn bigsnkycuao, unx
kax aip, yu oyul yei uaio yeky pcnn esby gbupye kax oliix sl yeuoi yeky
pcnn einl gbupye.

Msbyeib, mub yei sayunx aszrib um ekbx-pubwcag, bioluaocrni Kzibcdka
pubwibo kax rsocaioozia kax puzia peu'qi riia mubdix yu gu pcyeusy aiixix
rkaw nukao, yei rkawcag dbixcy dbsade zsoy iax. C pua'y aignidy zh
bioluaocrcncyh mub ousax bigsnkycuao yeky oibqi yei lsrncd guux, rsy
bigsnkyubh uqibwcnn zsoy ri oyullix. Kax C ekqi caoybsdyix usb guqibaziay
bigsnkyubo yu oyul cy.

C ekqi xcbidyix Dkrcaiy xilkbyziayo kax mixibkn kgiadcio yu oliix sl
lbu-gbupye itliaxcysbio ko vscdwnh ko luoocrni. Yeco oeusnx lsy ka itybk
$10 rcnncua cayu yei iduauzh ca yei aity oct zuayeo. Kax usb aip
ybkaolubykycua rcnn lbuqcxio zubi yeka $150 rcnncua mub duaoybsdycua kax
zkcayiakadi lbujidyo yeky kbi qcykn yu usb gbupye kax pinn-ricag. Yeky
zikao juro rscnxcag bukxo, juro rscnxcag rbcxgio kax juro rscnxcag
bkcnpkho. Kax C ekqi yeco iqiacag xcbidyix yei oidbiykbh um yei Ybikosbh yu
dekagi yei mixibkn ykt pcyeeunxcag ykrnio. Pcye yeco dekagi, zcnncuao um
Kzibcdkao mbuz peuz yei guqibaziay pcyeeunxo zubi yeka aidiookbh dka aup
deuuoi yu ekqi yei guqibaziay pcyeeunx nioo mbuz yeicb lkhdeidwo. Ouziyecag
yinno zi k aszrib um yktlkhibo zkh ykwi so sl ua yeco uai. Yeco cacyckycqi
dusnx biysba krusy $25 rcnncua rkdw cayu yei iduauzh uqib yei aity 12
zuayeo, zuaih liulni dka soi yu einl lkh mub dnuyecag, dunnigi ub k aip
dkb. Kax mcaknnh, pubwcag pcye yei Mixibkn Bioibqi, pi pcnn duaycasi yu
oslluby zuaiykbh luncdh yeky wiilo ruye cayibioy bkyio kax camnkycua xupa.

Aup yeioi kbi yei yecago yeky C dka xu. Kax aup, zizribo um Duagbioo, niy
zi yinn hus peky hus dka xu mub husb dusaybh. Hus zsoy, hus zsoy lkoo yei
uyeib iniziayo um zh lnka yu ziiy usb iduauzcd aiixo. Iqibhuai waupo
caqioyziay oliixo biduqibh. Kax C kz lbuluocag yeco iqiacag k dekagi ca yei
knyibakycqi zcaczsz ykt, kax yei dbikycua um k aip 15% caqioyziay ykt
knnupkadi. Yeco pcnn iadusbkgi rsocaiooio yu kddinibkyi caqioyziay kax
rbcag liulni rkdw yu pubw. Bikn ioykyi eko nix usb iduauzh usy um knzuoy
knn yei yusge yczio pi'qi iqib ekx. Uadi rscnxcag oykbyo, dkbliayibo kax
lnszribo pubw, liulni rsh euzio kax ykwi usy zubygkgio.

Zh lnka pusnx zuxcmh yei lkoocqi-nuoo bsni mub kdycqi bikn-ioykyi
xiqinulibo. Kax cy pusnx zkwi cy ikocib mub liaocua lnkao yu lsbdekoi bikn
ioykyi. Mub yeuoi Kzibcdkao peu xbikz um rshcag k mcboy euzi rsy peu dka'y
vscyi kmmubx cy, zh lnka pusnx knnup mcboy-yczi euzi rshibo yu pcyexbkp
okqcago mbuz CBKo pcyeusy liaknyh kax lbuqcxi k $5000 ykt dbixcy mub yei
mcboy lsbdekoi um yeky euzi.

Kax mcaknnh, zh czzixckyi lnka dknno ua Duagbioo yu gcqi dbsdckn einl yu
liulni peu upa k euzi, yu iqibh uai peu eko k rsocaioo, k mkbz ub k ocagni
caqioyziay.

Yeco yczi, ky yeco eusb, C dkaauy ykwi "Au" mub ka kaopib. Hus zsoy dsy yei
dklcykn gkcao ykt ua yei liulni um yeco dusaybh. Aiqib eko ka coosi riia ou
xizkgugsix rh cyo ulluaiayo. Rsy yei xizkgugsio kbi pbuag. Yeih kbi pbuag,
kax yeih waup cy. Octyh libdiay um liulni peu riaimcy mbuz nupib dklcykn
gkcao ekqi caduzio saxib $50,000. K dsy ca yei dklcykn gkcao ykt cadbikoio
juro kax einlo jsoy krusy iqibhuai ca usb dusaybh. Kax ou C'z kowcag hus yu
dsy yei dklcykn gkcao ykt yu k zktczsz um 15.4%. Kax C'nn yinn hus, C'nn
yinn hus, yeuoi um hus peu okh, "Ue au, ouziuai peu'o duzmubykrni zkh
riaimcy mbuz yeco" hus wcax um bizcax zi um yei unx ximcacycua um yei
Lsbcyka, peu dusnxa'y oniil ky acgey pubbhcag yeky ouzieup ouziuai
ouzipeibi pko usy ekqcag k guux yczi.

Yei ulluaiayo um yeco zikosbi kax yeuoi peu'qi ksyeubix qkbcuso ou-dknnix
oukw-yei-bcde rcnno yeky kbi mnukycag kbusax yeco dekzrib oeusnx ri
bizcaxix um ouziyecag: Peia yeih kcz ky yei rcg gsh, yeih sosknnh ecy yei
ncyyni gsh. Kax zkhri cy'o yczi yeky oyullix.

Yeco yeia co zh oeuby-yibz lnka. Husb lkby, zizribo um Duagbioo, bivscbio
iakdyziay um yeioi duzzua-oiaoi lbuluokno yeky pcnn ekqi k oybuag immidy ua
yei iduauzh, pcyeusy rbikwcag yei rsxgiy kgbiiziay kax pcyeusy bkcocag ykt
bkyio. Kax pecni zh lnka co ricag lkooix kax wcdwcag ca, pi'qi guy yu dkbi
mub yeuoi ca ybusrni yuxkh. C ekqi lbuqcxix mub sl yu $4.4 rcnncua ca zh
rsxgiy yu ityiax mixibkn saizlnuhziay riaimcyo, kax C kow mub Duagbioocuakn
kdycua bcgey kpkh. Kax C yekaw yei duzzcyyii--pinn, ky nkoy. Kax niy'o ri
mbkaw. Niy'o ri mbkaw; niy zi niqin pcye hus.

C waup, kax hus waup, yeky zh lnka co saqicnix ca k luncycdkn oikoua. C
waup, kax hus waup, yeky iqibhyecag C lbuluoi pcnn ri qcipix rh ouzi ca
zibinh lkbycoka yibzo. Rsy C kow hus yu waup peky co ca zh eikby. Kax zh
kcz co yu cadbikoi usb akycua'o guux. Kax C'z xucag peky C yecaw co bcgey;
C'z lbuluocag peky C waup pcnn einl. C lbcxi zhoinm yeky C'z k lbsxiay zka,
kax C rinciqi yeky lkyciadi co k qcbysi, rsy C saxiboykax luncycdo co, mub
ouzi, k gkzi kax yeky ouziyczio yei gkzi co yu oyul knn lbugbioo kax yeia
xidbh yei nkdw um czlbuqiziay. Rsy niy zi yinn hus, niy zi yinn hus, mkb
zubi czlubykay yeka zh luncycdkn msysbi--kax mkb zubi czlubykay yeka
husbo--co yei pinn-ricag um usb dusaybh. Kax zizribo um yeco dekzrib,
zizribo um yeco dekzrib, kbi lbkdycdkn liulni, kax C waup hus pua'y bioiay
ouzi lbkdycdkn kxqcdi: Peia liulni lsy yeicb lkbyh'o mubysaio, pekyiqib yei
lkbyh, pekyiqib yei ocxi um yeco kconi, rimubi yei lsrncd guux, yeih dusby
ximiky auy uanh mub yeicb dusaybh, rsy mub yeizoinqio. Kax yeih pcnn
dibykcanh xioibqi cy.

Kax C osrzcy zh lnka yuzubbup. Kax C kz kowcag hus yu lkoo cy rh Zkbde 20.
Mbuz yei xkh kmyib yeky--cm cy zsoy ri--yei rkyyni co jucaix. Kax hus
waup, peia lbcadclni co ky oykwi, C bincoe k guux mkcb mcgey.

C okcx zh lnka eko ypu lkbyo, kax cy xuio. Kax cy'o yei oiduax lkby yeky co
yei eikby um yei zkyyib. Mub cy'o auy iausge yu giy ka czzixckyi rsboy. Pi
aiix nuag-yibz czlbuqiziay ca usb iduauzcd luocycua. Pi knn waup yeky yei
wih yu usb iduauzcd msysbi co yu caosbi yeky Kzibcdk duaycasio ko yei
iduauzcd nikxib um yei pubnx. Pi ekqi yeky ca usb lupib. Eibi, yeia, co zh
nuag-yibz lnka yu gskbkayii usb msysbi.

Mcboy, ybkxi: Pi pcnn pubw yu rbikw xupa yei pknno yeky oyul pubnx ybkxi.
Pi pcnn pubw yu ulia zkbwiyo iqibhpeibi. Kax ca usb zkjub ybkxi
aiguyckycuao, C pcnn duaycasi lsoecag yu inczcakyi ykbcmmo kax osrocxcio
yeky xkzkgi Kzibcdk'o mkbzibo kax pubwibo. Kax pi'nn giy zubi guux Kzibcdka
juro pcyeca usb upa eizcoleibi yebusge yei Aubye Kzibcdka Mbii Ybkxi
Kgbiiziay, kax yebusge yei Iayiblbcoi mub yei Kzibcdko Cacyckycqi. Rsy
dekagio kbi eibi, kax zubi kbi duzcag. Yei pubw lnkdi um yei msysbi pcnn
xizkax zubi ecgenh owcnnix pubwibo yeka iqib, liulni peu kbi duzlsyib
ncyibkyi, ecgenh ixsdkyix.

Kax pi zsoy ri yei pubnx'o nikxib ca ixsdkycua. Kax pi zsoy biqunsycuacfi
Kzibcdk'o odeuuno. Zh Kzibcdk 2000 oybkyigh pcnn einl so bikde yeky gukn.
Zh lnka pcnn gcqi lkbiayo zubi deucdi, gcqi yikdeibo zubi mnitcrcncyh kax
einl duzzsacycio dbikyi aip Kzibcdka odeuuno. Yecbyh oykyio kdbuoo yei
akycua ekqi ioykrncoeix Kzibcdk 2000 lbugbkzo. Esaxbixo um dcycio kax yupao
ekqi jucaix. Aup Duagbioo zsoy juca yeco gbiky zuqiziay. Lkoo zh lbuluokno
mub aip Kzibcdka odeuuno.

Yeky pko zh oiduax nuag-yibz lbuluokn. Kax eibi'o zh yecbx: Pi zsoy zkwi
duzzua-oiaoi caqioyziayo yeky pcnn einl so duzliyi, nuag-yibz, ca yei
zkbwiylnkdi. Pi zsoy iadusbkgi bioikbde kax xiqinulziay. Zh lnka co yu zkwi
yei B kax X ykt dbixcy libzkaiay, kax yu lbuqcxi bidubx niqino um oslluby,
uqib $76 rcnncua yeco hikb knuai mub liulni peu itlnubi yei lbuzcoi um
izibgcag yideaunugcio.

Kax musbye, pi zsoy xu ouziyecag krusy dbczi kax xbsgo. Kax cy co yczi mub
k zkjub biaipix caqioyziay ca mcgeycag qcuniay oybiiy dbczi. Cyo oklo usb
oybiagye kax esbyo usb mkcye ca usb oudciyh, kax ca usb msysbi yugiyeib.
Osbinh k ycbix puzka ua eib pkh yu pubw ky oct ca yei zubacag ua k osrpkh
xioibqio yei bcgey yu giy yeibi okminh. Kax osbinh, cy'o ybsi yeky iqibhuai
peu dekagio eco ub eib pkh um ncmi ridksoi um dbczi--mbuz yeuoi kmbkcx yu
gu usb ky acgey yu yeuoi kmbkcx yu pknw ca yei lkbwo yeih lkh mub--osbinh
yeuoi liulni ekqi riia xiacix k rkocd dcqcn bcgey. Cy co yczi yu bioyubi
cy. Duagbioo, lkoo zh duzlbieiaocqi dbczi rcnn. Cy co yusge ua dbczcakno
kax osllubycqi um luncdi, kax cy eko riia nkagscoecag ca yeioi eknnupix
eknno mub hikbo aup. Lkoo cy. Einl husb dusaybh.

Kax mcmye, C kow hus yuacgey yu msax usb EULI eusocag lbuluokn kax yu lkoo
zh iayiblbcoi-fuai nigconkycua, pecde pcnn giy rsocaiooio cayu yei caaib
dcyh. Pi zsoy izlupib yei luub pcye yei lbcxi yeky duzio mbuz upacag k
euzi, giyycag k jur, riduzcag lkby um yecago. Zh lnka pusnx iadusbkgi bikn
ioykyi duaoybsdycua rh ityiaxcag ykt cadiaycqio mub zubygkgi-biqiasi ruaxo
kax nup-caduzi eusocag. Kax C kow yuacgey mub bidubx itliaxcysbio mub yei
lbugbkz yeky einlo decnxbia ruba cayu pkay zuqi cayu itdinniadi: Eikx
Oykby.

Oyil oct: Pi zsoy bimubz usb eiknye dkbi ohoyiz mub yeco yuu, rikbo ua
peiyeib ub auy pi dka duzliyi ca yei pubnx. Kzibcdka eiknye duoyo ekqi riia
itlnuxcag. Yeco hikb Kzibcdk pcnn oliax uqib $800 rcnncua ua eiknye, kax
yeky co itlidyix yu gbup yu $1.6 ybcnncua rh yei iax um yei xidkxi. Pi
oczlnh dkaauy kmmubx yeco. Yei duoy um eiknye dkbi oeupo sl auy uanh ca
husb mkzcnh rsxgiy, rsy ca yei lbcdi um iqibhyecag pi rsh kax iqibhyecag pi
oinn. Peia eiknye duqibkgi mub k minnup ua yei kooizrnh ncai duoyo
yeusokaxo um xunnkbo, yei duoy guio cayu yei lbuxsdy ei zkwio. Kax hus lkh
yei rcnn. Aup pi zsoy zkwi k deucdi.

Aup ouzi lbiyiax pi dka ekqi cy ruye pkho: yeih dknn cy lnkh ub lkh. Rsy
yeky itliaocqi kllbukde co saoykrni. Cy pcnn zika ecgeib yktio, mipib juro,
kax iqiaysknnh, k ohoyiz saxib duzlniyi guqibaziay duaybun. Biknnh, yeibi
kbi uanh ypu ulycuao. Kax pi dka zuqi yupkbx k akycuakncfix ohoyiz, k
ohoyiz pecde pcnn bioybcdy lkyciay deucdi ca lcdwcag k xudyub kax mubdi yei
guqibaziay yu bkycua oibqcdio kbrcybkbcnh. Kax peky pi'nn giy co lkyciayo
ca nuag ncaio, caxcmmibiay oibqcdi kax k esgi aip ykt rsbxia. Ub pi dka
bimubz usb upa lbcqkyi eiknye-dkbi ohoyiz, pecde oycnn gcqio so, mub knn
cyo mnkpo, yei rioy vskncyh eiknye dkbi ca yei pubnx. Pinn, niy'o rscnx ua
usb oybiagyeo.

Zh lnka lbuqcxio caosbkadi oidsbcyh mub knn Kzibcdkao pecni lbioibqcag kax
cadbikocag yei cxik um deucdi. Pi zkwi rkocd eiknye caosbkadi kmmubxkrni
mub knn nup-caduzi liulni auy aup duqibix. Pi xu cy rh lbuqcxcag k
eiknye-caosbkadi ykt dbixcy um sl yu $3750 mub ikde nup-caduzi mkzcnh. Yei
zcxxni dnkoo giyo einl, yuu. Kax rh bimubzcag yei eiknye caosbkadi zkbwiy,
zh lnka koosbio yeky Kzibcdkao pcnn ekqi kddioo yu rkocd eiknye caosbkadi
iqia cm yeih dekagi juro ub xiqinul oibcuso eiknye lburniz Pi zsoy rbcag
duoyo saxib duaybun, lbioibqi vskncyh, lbioibqi deucdi kax bixsdi liulni'o
akggcag xkcnh pubbh krusy eiknye caosbkadi. Zh lnka, yei xiykcno um pecde C
pcnn kaausadi oeubynh, xuio jsoy yeky.

Kax oiqiaye, pi zsoy giy yei mixibkn ximcdcy saxib duaybun. Pi aup ekqi ca
nkp, iamubdkrni oliaxcag dklo, kax k bivscbiziay yeky pi lkh mub yei
lbugbkzo pi dbikyi. Yeibi kbi yeuoi ca Duagbioo peu pusnx ikoi yeky
xcodclncai aup. Rsy C dkaauy niy yeiz xu cy. Kax C pua'y. Zh lnka pusnx
mbiifi knn xuzioycd xcodbiycuakbh rsxgiy ksyeubcyh pecde zikao "Au zubi
aity hikb yeka yeco hikb". C pcnn auy ykzlib pcye Oudckn Oidsbcyh rsy C
pusnx lsy bikn dklo ua yei gbupye um saduaybunnix oliaxcag. Kax C pusnx
knou mbiifi mixibkn xuzioycd guqibaziay izlnuhziay. Kax pcye yei einl um
Duagbioo, zh lnka pcnn giy bcx um 246 lbugbkzo yeky xua'y xioibqi mixibkn
msaxcag. Ouzi um yeiz ekqi aurni ycynio, rsy auai um yeiz co caxcoliaocrni.
Pi dka giy bcx um ikde kax iqibh uai um yeiz.

Hus waup, cy'o yczi pi bixcoduqibix k euzi ybsye yei Kzibcdka liulni ekqi
aiqib mubguyyia: yei guqibaziay co yuu rcg kax oliaxo yuu zsde. Kax C dknn
ua Duagbioo yu kxuly k zikosbi yeky pcnn einl lsy ka iax yu yei kaaskn
bcyskn um mcnncag yei rsxgiy pcye lubw-rkbbin kllbulbckycuao. Iqibh hikb,
yei lbioo eko k mcinx xkh zkwcag msa um usybkgiuso itkzlnio, k Nkpbiadi
Pinw Zsoisz, k bioikbde gbkay mub Ringcka Iaxcqi. Pi knn waup eup yeioi
yecago giy cayu yei rsxgiy, kax zkhri hus aiix ouziuai yu einl hus okh au.
C waup eup yu okh cy. Kax hus waup peky C aiix yu zkwi cy oycdw. Gcqi zi
yei okzi yecag 43 guqibaubo ekqi--yei ncai-cyiz qiyu--kax niy zi einl
hus duaybun oliaxcag.

Pi zsoy lsy ka iax yu samcakadix guqibaziay zkaxkyio. Yeioi kbi yei
bivscbiziayo Duagbioo lsyo ua usb dcycio, dusaycio kax oykyio pcyeusy
osllnhcag yei zuaih. Kax cm Duagbioo lkooio k zkaxkyi, cy oeusnx ri mubdix
yu lkh mub cy kax rknkadi yei duoy pcye okqcago inoipeibi. Kmyib knn, k
zkaxkyi jsoy cadbikoio ouziuai inoi'o ykt rsbxia, kax yeky zikao ecgeib
yktio ky yei oykyi kax nudkn niqin.

Oyil Icgey: Duagbioo oeusnx iakdy yei runx bimubz lbuluokno yeky kbi oycnn
kpkcycag duagbioocuakn kdycua: rkaw bimubz, dcqcn jsoycdi bimubz, yuby
bimubz, kax zh akycuakn iaibgh oybkyigh.

Kax mcaknnh, pi zsoy oybiagyeia yei mkzcnh, ridksoi cy co yei mkzcnh yeky
eko yei gbikyioy rikbcag ua usb msysbi. Peia Rkbrkbk eunxo ka KCXO rkrh ca
eib kbzo kax bikxo yu decnxbia, oei'o okhcag yu iqibh liboua ca yeco
dusaybh, "Mkzcnh Zkyyibo".

Kax C kz kaausadcag yuacgey k aip duzzcoocua ua Kzibcdk'o sbrka mkzcncio.
C'qi kowix Zcoousbc'o guqibaub, Juea Koedbumy, yu ri dekcbzka, mubzib
Xknnko Zkhub Kaaiyyib Oybksoo yu ri du-dekcb. Hus waup, C ekx Zkhubo, yei
nikxcag zkhubo mbuz yei Nikgsi um Dcycio, ca yei uyeib xkh ky yei Pecyi
Eusoi, kax yeih yunx zi ouziyecag oybcwcag. Yeih okcx yeky iqibh uai um
yeiz, Bilsrncdka kax Xizudbky, kgbiix ua uai yecag: Yeky yei zkjub dksoi um
yei lburnizo um yei dcycio co yei xcoounsycua um yei mkzcnh. Kax yeih kowix
mub yeco duzzcoocua, kax yeih pibi bcgey yu kow, ridksoi cy'o yczi yu
xiyibzcai peky pi dka xu yu wiil mkzcncio yugiyeib, oybuag kax ousax.

Yeibi'o uai yecag pi dka xu bcgey kpkh: Ikoi yei rsbxia um bikbcag k decnx.
C kow hus yuacgey yu bkcoi yei libouakn itizlycua rh $500 lib decnx mub
iqibh mkzcnh. Mub k mkzcnh pcye musb wcxo, yeky'o ka cadbikoi um $2000.
Yeco co k guux oykby ca yei bcgey xcbidycua, kax cy'o peky pi dka kmmubx.
Cy'o yczi yu knnup mkzcncio yu xixsdy yei cayibioy yeih lkh ua oysxiay
nukao. Kax C'z kowcag hus yu xu jsoy yeky. Kax C'z kowcag hus yu knnup
liulni yu soi zuaih mbuz yeicb CBKo yu lkh zixcdkn kax ixsdkycuakn
itliaoio, knn pcyeusy liaknycio. Kax C'z kowcag mub zubi. Kow Kzibcdka
lkbiayo peky yeih xconcwi krusy eup yecago kbi gucag ca usb dusaybh, kax
dekadio kbi guux yeky lbiyyh ouua yeih'nn giy yu pinmkbi.

Kzibcdkao kbi yei zuoy giaibuso liulni ua Ikbye. Rsy pi ekqi yu gu rkdw yu
yei caocgey um Mbkawnca Buuoiqiny peu, peia ei oluwi um peky ridkzi yei
pinmkbi lbugbkz, pkay yeky cy zsoy auy riduzi k akbduycd kax k osryni
xioybuhib um yei olcbcy. Pinmkbi pko aiqib zikay yu ri k ncmi oyhni. Cy pko
aiqib zikay yu ri k ekrcy. Cy pko aiqib oslluoix yu ri lkooix ua mbuz
giaibkycua yu giaibkycua ncwi k nigkdh. Cy'o yczi yu bilnkdi yei
kooszlycuao um yei pinmkbi oykyi kax einl bimubz yei pinmkbi ohoyiz.

Oykyio yebusgeusy yei dusaybh kbi rigcaacag yu ulibkyi pcye aip
kooszlycuao: yeky peia krni-ruxcix liulni bidicqi guqibaziay koocoykadi
yeih ekqi bioluaocrcncycio yu yei yktlkhib. K bioluaocrcncyh yu oiiw pubw,
ixsdkycua, ub jur ybkcacag. K bioluaocrcncyh yu giy yeicb ncqio ca ubxib. K
bioluaocrcncyh yu eunx yeicb mkzcncio yugiyeib kax bimbkca mbuz ekqcag
decnxbia usy um pixnudw. Kax k bioluaocrcncyh yu urih yei nkp. Pi kbi gucag
yu einl yeco zuqiziay. Umyia, oykyi bimubz bivscbio pkcqcag dibykca mixibkn
bigsnkycuao. C pcnn kdy yu zkwi yeky lbudioo ikocib kax vscdwib mub iqibh
oykyi yeky kowo usb einl. Kax C pkay yu kxx, ko pi zkwi yeioi dekagio, pi
pubw yugiyeib yu czlbuqi yeco ohoyiz, yeky usb cayiaycua co auy
odkligukycag kax mcagib-lucaycag. Cm hus bikx yei lklibo ub pkyde YQ hus
waup yeibi'o riia k bcoi yeioi xkho ca k dibykca wcax um sgncaioo: bkdcoy
duzziayo, kayc-Oizcycoz, ka cadbikoix oiaoi um xcqcocua. Biknnh, yeco co
auy so. Yeco co auy peu pi kbi. Kax yeco co auy kddilykrni.

Kax ou hus ekqi zh lnka mub Kzibcdk. Kax C kz kowcag mub rcg yecago, rsy C
rinciqi ca zh eikby hus pcnn xu peky'o bcgey.

Kax hus waup, cy'o wcax um ka Kzibcdka ybkxcycua yu oeup k dibykca
owilycdcoz yupkbx usb xizudbkycd caoycysycuao. C zhoinm ekqi ouziyczio
yeusgey yei kgcag lbudioo dusnx ri xinkhix cm cy ekx yu zkwi cyo pkh
yebusge Duagbioo. Rsy hus pcnn xincribkyi, kax hus pcnn xcodsoo, kax yeky
co mcai. Rsy zh mbciaxo yei liulni dkaauy pkcy. Yeih aiix einl aup. Kax
yeibi'o k zuux kzuag so. Liulni kbi pubbcix. Yeibi eko riia yknw um
xidncai. Ouziuai iqia okcx usb pubwibo kbi nkfh kax sacaolcbix. Kax C
yeusgey, "Biknnh? Gu yinn Aicn Kbzoybuag oykaxcag ua yei zuua. Yinn yei
Kzibcdka mkbzib peu miixo eco dusaybh kax yei pubnx. Yinn yei zia kax puzia
um Xioiby Oyubz." Zuuxo duzi kax gu, rsy gbikyaioo iaxsbio. Usb xuio.

Kax zkhri mub k zuziay cy'o guux yu bizizrib peky, ca yei xkcnhaioo um usb
ncqio, pi mubgiy. Pi kbi oycnn kax iqib yei mbiioy akycua ua Ikbye, yei
wcaxioy akycua ua Ikbye, yei oybuagioy akycua ua Ikbye. Kax pi ekqi knpkho
bcoia yu yei uddkocua. Kax pi kbi gucag yu ncmy yeco akycua usy um ekbx
yczio cade rh cade kax xkh rh xkh, kax yeuoi peu pusnx oyul so riyyib oyil
kocxi. Ridksoi C nuuw ky ekbx yczio kax C zkwi yeco qup: Yeco pcnn auy
oykax. Kax ou pi zuqi ua, yugiyeib, k bcocag akycua, yei uadi kax msysbi
zcbkdni yeky co oycnn, yeco acgey, yei euli um yei pubnx.