Uehifku, I qery heu ue sbyzg ztedu uky "Suzuy ec uky Fenyohryhu", heu ue
xyuziw ynyom hya ihiuizuiny ay bwzh ceo uky qerihf myzo, heo xysqoity ynyom
wihy ih uky tdxfyu. I'r kyoy ue sbyzg ue med zhx ue uky Zryoiqzh byebwy
ztedu uky Suzuy ec uky Dhieh ztedu edo aeowx, uky qkzhfys ay'ny syyh, uky
qkzwwyhfys ay czqy. Zhx akzu ukzu ryzhs ceo Zryoiqz.

Ukyoy zoy sihfdwzo reryhus ih kisueom, xzuys ukzu xinixy zww ukzu feys
tyceoy coer zww ukzu qerys zcuyo. Zhx rzhm ec ds ih ukis qkzrtyo kzny winyx
rdqk ec edo winys ih z aeowx akesy cdhxzryhuzw cyzudoys ayoy xycihyx ih
1945. Zhx uky ynyhus ec ukzu myzo xyqoyyx uky skzby ec hzuiehs, uky bzqy ec
boefoyss, coyyxer eo ebboyssieh ceo riwwiehs ec byebwy zoedhx uky aeowx.

Hihyuyyh Ceoum-Ciny boenixyx uky qerreh cozry ec oycyoyhqy uky qerbzss
beihus ec uky besuazo yoz ay'ny oywiyx dbeh ue dhxyosuzhx edosywnys. Zhx
ukzu azs edo aeowx dhuiw hea. Uky ynyhus ec uky myzo pdsu yhxyx, uky
Oynewduieh ec '89, kzny tyyh z qkzih oyzquieh, qkzhfys se suoigihf ukzu iu
rzogs uky tyfihhihf ec z hya yoz ih uky aeowx's zcczios.

Ukihg tzqg ukihg tzqg pdsu uaywny skeou rehuks zfe ue uky aeowx ay ghya zs
1989 tyfzh.

Ehy myzo, ehy myzo zfe uky byebwy ec Bzhzrz winyx ih cyzo dhxyo uky ukdrt
ec z xiquzueo. Uexzm xyreqozqm is oysueoyx. Bzhzrz is coyy.

"Ebyozuieh Pdsu Qzdsy" kzs zqkiynyx ius etpyquiny. Zhx uky hdrtyo ec
riwiuzom byosehyw ih Bzhzrz is hea nyom qwesy ue akzu iu azs tyceoy uky
ebyozuieh tyfzh. Zhx uehifku I zr zhhedhqihf ukzu tyceoy uky yhx ec
Cytodzom uky zxxiuiehzw hdrtyos ec Zryoiqzh uoeebs, uky tozny ryh zhx aeryh
ec edo zoryx ceoqys ake rzxy ukis rissieh z sdqqyss, aiww ty tzqg kery.

Z myzo zfe ih Bewzhx, Wyqk Azwysz xyqwzoyx ky azs oyzxm ue ebyh z xizwefdy
aiuk uky Qerrdhisu odwyos ec ukzu qedhuom. Zhx uexzm, aiuk uky cdudoy ec z
coyy Bewzhx ih ukyio eah kzhxs, ryrtyos ec Sewixzoium wyzx uky Bewisk
fenyohryhu.

Zhx z myzo zfe, coyyxer's bwzmaoifku, Nzqwzn Kznyw, wzhfdiskyx zs z
boisehyo ih Bozfdy. Zhx uexzm iu's Nzqwzn Kznyw, Boysixyhu ec
Qjyqkeswenzgiz.

Zhx ehy myzo zfe Yoiqk Kehyqgyo ec Yzsu Fyorzhm qwziryx kisueom zs kis
fdixy. Ky boyxiquyx uky Tyowih Azww aedwx wzsu zheukyo kdhxoyx myzos. Zhx
uexzm, wyss ukzh ehy myzo wzuyo, iu's uky azww ukzu's kisueom.

Oyrzogztwy ynyhus, oyrzogztwy ynyhus, ynyhus ukzu cdwciww uky wehf-kywx
kebys ec uky Zryoiqzh byebwy. Ynyhus ukzu nzwixzuy uky wehfsuzhxihf fezws
ec Zryoiqzh bewiqm, z bewiqm tzsyx dbeh z sihfwy skihihf boihqibwy: uky
qzdsy ec coyyxer.

Zryoiqz, heu pdsu uky hzuieh, tdu zh ixyz zwiny ih uky rihxs ec uky byebwy,
ynyomakyoy. Zs ukis hya aeowx uzgys skzby, Zryoiqz suzhxs zu uky qyhuyo ec
z aixyhihf qioqwy ec coyyxer, uexzm, uereooea zhx ihue uky hyvu qyhudom.

Edo hzuieh is uky yhxdoihf xoyzr ec ynyom irrifozhu ake ynyo syu ceeu eh
ukysy skeoys, zhx uky riwwiehs suiww suodffwihf ue ty coyy. Ukis hzuieh,
ukis ixyz qzwwyx Zryoiqz azs zhx zwazms aiww ty z hya aeowx, edo hya
aeowx.

Zu z aeogyos' ozwwm ih z bwzqy qzwwyx Tozhig eh uky edusgious ec Bozfdy uky
ixyz qzwwyx Zryoiqz is zwiny. Z aeogyo, xoyssyx ih foirm enyozwws, oisys ue
sbyzg zu uky czqueom fzuys. Zhx ky tyfihs kis sbyyqk ue kis cywwea qiuijyhs
aiuk ukysy aeoxs, aeoxs ec z xisuzhu oynewduieh: "Ay kewx ukysy uoduks ue
ty sywc-ynixyhu. Ukzu zww ryh zoy qoyzuyx yldzw, ukzu ukym zoy yhxeayx tm
ukyio qoyzueo aiuk qyouzih dhzwiyhztwy oifkus, zhx ukzu zrehf ukysy zoy
wicy, wityoum zhx uky bdosdiu ec kzbbihyss." Iu's he syqoyu kyoy zu kery
coyyxer's xeeo ebyhyx wehf zfe. Uky qeohyosuehys ec ukis coyy seqiyum kzny
zwoyzxm tyyh syu ih bwzqy: xyreqozqm, qerbyuiuieh, ebbeoudhium, boinzuy
ihnysuryhu, suyazoxskib, zhx ec qedosy, wyzxyoskib.

Zhx edo qkzwwyhfy uexzm is ue uzgy ukis xyreqozuiq smsuyr ec edos, z smsuyr
syqehx ue hehy, zhx rzgy iu tyuuyo:

Z tyuuyo Zryoiqz akyoy ukyoy's z pet ceo akeynyo azhus ehy;

Akyoy aeryh aeogihf edusixy uky kery qzh ty qehcixyhu ukyio qkiwxoyh zoy
ih szcy zhx wenihf qzoy, zhx akyoy Fenyohryhu aeogs ue yvbzhx qkiwx
zwuyohzuinys ceo bzoyhus.

Akyoy ay oyqehqiwy uky hyyxs ec z qwyzh yhnioehryhu zhx z suoehf yqeherm.

Akyoy "Rzxy ih uky DSZ" is oyqefhijyx zoedhx uky aeowx zs uky smrtew ec
ldzwium zhx boefoyss,

Zhx akyoy ynyom ehy ec ds yhpems uky szry ebbeoudhiuiys ue winy, ue aeog
zhx ue qehuoitduy ue seqiyum. Zhx akyoy, ceo uky ciosu uiry, uky Zryoiqzh
rzihsuoyzr ihqwdxys zww ec edo xisztwyx qiuijyhs.

Akyoy ynyomehy kzs z oeec enyo kis kyzx, zhx akyoy uky kerywyss fyu uky
kywb ukym hyyx ue winy ih xifhium.

Akyoy edo sqkeews qkzwwyhfy zhx sdbbeou edo gixs zhx edo uyzqkyos, zhx
ynyom ehy ec ukyr rzgys uky fozxy,

Akyoy ynyom suoyyu, ynyom qium, ynyom sqkeew zhx ynyom qkiwx is xodf-coyy.

Zhx cihzwwm, zhx cihzwwm, akyoy he Zryoiqzh is ceofeuuyh. Edo kyzous fe edu
ue edo kesuzfys, edo kesuzfys ake zoy qyzsywysswm ih edo rihxs zhx ih edo
ycceous. Ukzu's bzou ec uky cdudoy ay azhu ue syy, uky cdudoy ay qzh rzgy
ceo edosywnys. Tdu xoyzrs zwehy aeh'u fyu ds ukyoy. Ay hyyx ue yvuyhx edo
keoijeh, ue qerriu ue uky wehf niya. Zhx edo rissieh ceo uky cdudoy suzous
uexzm.

Ih uky uedfk qerbyuiuiny rzogyus zoedhx uky aeowx, Zryoiqz czqys uky foyzu
qkzwwyhfys zhx foyzu ebbeoudhiuiys. Zhx ay ghea ukzu ay qzh sdqqyyx ih uky
fwetzw yqeheriq zoyhz ec uky 90's. Tdu ue ryyu ukzu qkzwwyhfy ay rdsu rzgy
sery cdhxzryhuzw qkzhfys, sery qodqizw ihnysuryhus ih edosywnys.

Mys, ay zoy feihf ue ihnysu ih Zryoiqz. Ukis Zxrihisuozuieh is xyuyorihyx
ue yhqedozfy uky qoyzuieh ec qzbiuzw, qzbiuzw ec zww gihxs. Bkmsiqzw
qzbiuzw: ynyomukihf coer edo czors zhx czqueoiys ue edo aeogskebs zhx
boexdquieh wihys, zww ukzu is hyyxyx ue boexdqy zhx xywinyo ldzwium feexs
zhx ldzwium syoniqys. Ihuywwyqudzw, ihuywwyqudzw qzbiuzw: uky sedoqy ec
ixyzs ukzu sbzog uereooea's boexdqus. Zhx ec qedosy kdrzh qzbiuzw: uky
uzwyhuyx aeog ceoqy ukzu ay'ww hyyx ue qerbyuy ih uky fwetzw rzogyu.

Zhx wyu ry uyww med, ic ay ifheoy kdrzh qzbiuzw, ic ay wesy uky sbioiu ec
Zryoiqzh ihfyhdium, uky sboiu ukzu is uky kzwwrzog ec uky ZRYOIQZH aeogyo,
ukzu aedwx ty tzx. Uky Zryoiqzh aeogyo is uky resu boexdquiny aeogyo ih uky
aeowx.

Ay hyyx ue szny reoy. Ay hyyx ue yvbzhx uky beew ec qzbiuzw ceo hya
ihnysuryhus ukzu ryzh reoy pets zhx reoy foeauk. Zhx ukzu's uky ixyz tykihx
uky hya ihiuizuiny I qzww uky Czriwm Sznihfs Bwzh, akiqk I aiww syhx ue
Qehfoyss uereooea.

Ay hyyx ue qdu uky uzv eh qzbiuzw fzihs, yhqedozfy, yhqedozfy oisg-uzgyos,
ysbyqizwwm ukesy ih srzww tdsihyssys, ue uzgy ukesy suybs ukzu uozhswzuy
ihue yqeheriq oyazox, pets, zhx z tyuuyo wicy ceo zww ec ds.

Ay'ww xe akzu iu uzgys ue ihnysu ih Zryoiqz's cdudoy. Uky tdxfyu qerriuryhu
is ukyoy. Uky rehym is ukyoy. Iu's ukyoy ceo oysyzoqk zhx xynywebryhu, O
zhx X, z oyqeox kifk. Iu's ukyoy ceo edo kedsihf ihiuizuiny, keby, K-E-B-Y,
ue kywb ynyomehy coer ciosu-uiry kerytdmyos ue uky kerywyss. Uky rehym's
ukyoy ue gyyb edo gixs xodf-coyy, 70 byoqyhu reoy ukzh akyh I ueeg ecciqy
ih 1989. Iu's ukyoy ceo sbzqy yvbweozuieh, zhx ius ukyoy ceo yxdqzuieh,
zheukyo oyqeox kifk.

Zhx ehy reoy, zhx ehy reoy ukihf. Wzsu czww zu uky yxdqzuieh sdrriu, uky
fenyoheos zhx I zfoyyx ue weeg ceo azms ue kywb rzgy sdoy ukzu edo gixs zoy
oyzxm ue wyzoh uky nyom ciosu xzm ukym azwg ihue uky qwzssoeer. Zhx I'ny
rzxy feex eh ukzu qerriuryhu tm boebesihf z oyqeox ihqoyzsy ih cdhxs, zh
yvuoz kzwc tiwwieh xewwzos, ceo seryukihf hyzo zhx xyzo ue zww ec ds: Kyzx
Suzou.

Yxdqzuieh is uky ehy ihnysuryhu ukzu ryzhs reoy ceo edo cdudoy, tyqzdsy iu
ryzhs uky resu ceo edo qkiwxoyh. Oyzw irboenyryhu ih edo sqkeews is heu
sirbwm z rzuuyo ec sbyhxihf reoy. Iu's z rzuuyo ec zsgihf reoy, yvbyquihf
reoy, ec edo sqkeews, edo uyzqkyos, ec edo gixs, ec edo bzoyhus zhx ec
edosywnys. Zhx ukzu's akm uehifku, zhx ukzu's akm uehifku, I zr zhhedhqihf
Zryoiqz's yxdqzuieh fezws, fezws xynywebyx aiuk yheoreds qeebyozuieh coer
uky hzuieh's fenyoheos. Zhx ic I rifku I'x wigy ue szm I'r nyom bwyzsyx
ukzu Fenyoheo Fzoxhyo zhx Fenyoheo Qwihueh, Fenyoheo Tozhsuzx, Fenyoheo
Qzrbtyww, zww ec aker ayoy nyom gym ih ukysy xisqdssieh, ukysy
xywityozuiehs, zoy aiuk ds kyoy uehifku.

Tm uky, tm uky myzo 2000, ynyom qkiwx rdsu suzou sqkeew oyzxm ue wyzoh. Uky
Dhiuyx Suzuys rdsu ihqoyzsy uky kifk sqkeew fozxdzuieh ozuy ue he wyss ukzh
90 byoqyhu. Zhx ay zoy feihf ue rzgy sdoy edo sqkeews' xibwerzs ryzh
seryukihf. Ih qoiuiqzw sdtpyqus, zu uky cedouk, yifkuk, zhx 12uk fozxys, ay
rdsu zssyss edo sudxyhus' byoceorzhqy.

Tm uky, tm uky myzo 2000 D.S. sudxyhus rdsu ty uky ciosu ih uky aeowx ih
rzuk zhx sqiyhqy zqkiynyryhu. Ynyom Zryoiqzh zxdwu rdsu ty z sgiwwyx,
wiuyozuy aeogyo zhx qiuijyh. Ynyom sqkeew rdsu eccyo uky gihx ec
xisqibwihyx yhnioehryhu ukzu rzgys iu bessitwy ceo edo gixs ue wyzoh. Zhx
ynyom sqkeew ih Zryoiqz rdsu ty xodf-coyy.

Zrtiuieds zirs? Ec qedosy. Yzsm ue xe? Czo coer iu. Tdu uky cdudoy's zu
suzgy. Uky hzuieh aiww heu zqqybu zhmukihf wyss ukzh yvqywwyhqy ih
yxdqzuieh.

Ukysy ihnysuryhus aiww kywb gyyb Zryoiqz qerbyuiuiny. Zhx I ghea ukis ztedu
uky Zryoiqzh byebwy: ay aywqery qerbyuiuieh. Ay'ww rzuqk edo ihfyhdium, edo
yhyofm, edo yvbyoiyhqy, zhx uyqkhewefm edo sbioiu zhx yhuyoboisy zfzihsu
zhmehy. Tdu wyu uky qerbyuiuieh ty coyy, tdu wyu iu zwse ty czio. Zryoiqz
is oyzxm.

Sihqy ay oyzwwm ryzh iu, zhx sihqy ay'oy syoieds ztedu tyihf oyzxm ue ryyu
edo qkzwwyhfy, ay'oy fyuuihf edo eah kedsy ih eoxyo. Ay kzny rzxy oyzw
boefoyss. Synyh myzos zfe, uky Cyxyozw xyciqiu azs 6 byoqyhu ec edo foess
hzuiehzw boexdqu, 6 byoqyhu. Ih uky hya tdxfyu I syhu db uae xzms zfe uky
xyciqiu is xeah ue 1 byoqyhu ec FHB.

Ukzu tdxfyu toihfs Cyxyozw sbyhxihf dhxyo qehuoew. Iu ryyus uky
Fozrr-Odxrzh uzofyu. Iu toihfs uky xyciqiu xeah cdoukyo. Zhx tzwzhqys uky
tdxfyu tm 1993, aiuk he hya uzvys.

Zhx wyu ry uyww med, ukyoy's suiww reoy ukzh yhedfk Cyxyozw sbyhxihf. Ceo
resu ec ds, $1.2 uoiwwieh is suiww z weu ec rehym.

Zhx ehqy uky tdxfyu is tzwzhqyx, ay qzh ebyozuy uky azm ynyom czriwm rdsu
akyh iu kzs tiwws ue bzm. Ay aeh'u wyzny iu ue edo qkiwxoyh zhx
fozhxqkiwxoyh. Ehqy iu's tzwzhqyx, ay aiww suzou bzmihf ecc uky hzuiehzw
xytu.

Zhx ukyoy's seryukihf reoy, zhx ukyoy's seryukihf reoy ay eay uky
fyhyozuiehs ec uky cdudoy: suyazoxskib, uky szcygyybihf ec Zryoiqz's
boyqieds yhnioehryhuzw ihkyoiuzhqy.

Zs pdsu ehy sifh ec kea syoieds ay zoy, ay aiww ywynzuy uky Yhnioehryhuzw
Boeuyquieh Zfyhqm ue Qztihyu ozhg. Heu, heu reoy tdoyzdqozqm, heu reoy oyx
uzby, tdu uky qyouzihum ukzu kyoy zu kery, zhx ysbyqizwwm ih edo xyzwihfs
aiuk eukyo hzuiehs, yhnioehryhuzw issdys kzny uky suzuds ukym xysyony.

Ukis myzo's tdxfyu boenixys enyo $2 tiwwieh ih hya sbyhxihf ue boeuyqu edo
yhnioehryhu, aiuk enyo $1 tiwwieh ceo fwetzw qkzhfy oysyzoqk, zhx z hya
ihiuizuiny I qzww Zryoiqz uky Tyzduicdw ue yvbzhx edo hzuiehzw bzogs zhx
aiwxwicy boysyonys zhx irboeny oyqoyzuiehzw czqiwiuiys eh bdtwiq wzhxs.

Zhx seryukihf ywsy, seryukihf ukzu aiww kywb gyyb ukis qedhuom qwyzh, coer
edo ceoysu wzhx ue uky ihhyo qiuiys, zhx gyyb Zryoiqz tyzduicdw ceo
fyhyozuiehs ue qery, uky rehym ue bwzhu z tiwwieh uoyys z myzo.

Zhx uehifku, zhx uehifku wyu ry szm zfzih ue zww uky ryrtyos ec uky
Qehfoyss, uky Zryoiqzh byebwy xix heu syhx ds kyoy ue tiqgyo. Ukyoy is aeog
ue xe, zhx ukym syhu ds kyoy ue fyu iu xehy. Zhx ehqy zfzih, ih uky sbioiu
ec qeebyozuieh I eccyo rm kzhx ue zww ec med. Zhx wyu's aeog uefyukyo ue xe
uky aiww ec uky byebwy--qwyzh zio, qkiwx qzoy, uky yxdqzuiehzw yvqywwyhqy
zqu, qoiry zhx xodfs. Iu's uiry ue zqu. Uky czor tiww, uozhsbeouzuieh
bewiqm, boexdqu wiztiwium oyceor, yhuyoboisy jehys. Iu's uiry ue zqu
uefyukyo.

Zhx ukyoy's ehy ukihf I keby ay qzh zfoyy eh. Iu's ztedu edo qerriuryhus.
Zhx I'r uzwgihf ztedu Seqizw Syqdoium.

Ue ynyom Zryoiqzh edu ukyoy eh Seqizw Syqdoium, ue ynyom, ynyom Zryoiqzh
sdbbeouihf ukzu smsuyr uexzm, zhx ue ynyomehy qedhuihf eh iu akyh ukym
oyuioy, ay rzxy z boerisy ue med, zhx ay zoy feihf ue gyyb iu.

Ay, ay oysqdyx uky smsuyr ih 1983 zhx iu's sedhx zfzih, tibzouiszh
zoozhfyryhu. Edo tdxfyu cdwwm cdhxs uexzm's tyhycius zhx iu zssdoys ukzu
cdudoy tyhycius aiww ty cdhxyx zs ayww. Zhx uky wzsu ukihf ay hyyx ue xe is
ryss zoedhx aiuk Seqizw Syqdoium.

Ukyoy's ehy reoy boetwyr ay hyyx ue zxxoyss. Ay rdsu finy qzoycdw
qehsixyozuieh ue uky oyqerryhxzuiehs ec uky kyzwuk qzoy sudxiys dhxyo azm
hea. Zhx ukzu's akm uehifku, I zr zsgihf Xo. Sdwwinzh, Wed Sdwwinzh,
Syqoyuzom ec Kyzwuk zhx Kdrzh Syoniqys, ue wyzx z Xerysuiq Bewiqm Qedhqiw
oyniya ec oyqerryhxzuiehs eh uky ldzwium, zqqyssitiwium zhx qesu ec edo
hzuieh's kyzwuk qzoy smsuyr. I zr qerriuuyx ue toihf uky suzffyoihf qesus
ec kyzwuk qzoy dhxyo qehuoew.

Uky Suzuy ec uky Fenyohryhu xeys ihxyyx xybyhx eh rzhm ec ds ih ukis nyom
qkzrtyo. Tdu uky Suzuy ec uky Dhieh xybyhxs eh zww Zryoiqzhs. Ay rdsu
rzihuzih uky xyreqozuiq xyqyhqm ukzu rzgys z hzuieh edu ec riwwiehs ec
ihxinixdzws. Zhx I'ny tyyh zbbzwwyx zu uky oyqyhu rziw tertihfs zqoess ukis
qedhuom. Ynyom ehy ec ds rdsu qehcoehu zhx qehxyrh ozqisr, zhui-Syriuisr,
tifeuom zhx kzuy. Heu hyvu ayyg, heu uereooea, tdu oifku hea. Ynyom sihfwy
ehy ec ds.

Uky Suzuy ec uky Dhieh xybyhxs eh akyukyo ay kywb edo hyifkteo, qwzir uky
boetwyrs ec edo qerrdhium zs edo eah. Ay'ny feu ue suyb ceoazox akyh
ukyoy's uoedtwy, wyhx z kzhx, ty akzu I qzww z beihu ec wifku ue z suozhfyo
ih hyyx. Ay'ny feu ue uzgy uky uiry zcuyo z tdsm xzm ue siu xeah zhx oyzx
aiuk edo gixs, kywb ukyr aiuk ukyio keryaeog, bzss zwehf uky nzwdys ay kzx
zs qkiwxoyh. Zhx ukzu's kea ay sdsuzih uky Suzuy ec uky Dhieh.

Ynyom ycceou is irbeouzhu. Iu zww zxxs db. Iu's xeihf uky ukihfs ukzu finy
xyreqozqm ryzhihf. Iu zww zxxs db ue ake ay zoy zhx ake ay aiww ty.

Zhx wyu ry szm, ukzu se wehf zs ay oyryrtyo uky Zryoiqzh ixyz, se wehf zs
ay winy db ue uky Zryoiqzh ixyzw, uky Suzuy ec uky Dhieh aiww oyrzih sedhx
zhx suoehf.

Zhx ue ukesy ake aeoom ukzu ay'ny wesu edo azm, ayww, I azhu med ue wisuyh
ue bzous ec z wyuuyo aoiuuyh tm Pzrys Rzogayww, Bnu. 1su Qwzss Pzrys
Rzogayww, z 20-myzo-ewx Zorm ryxiq ue uky Ciosu Tzuuzwieh, 75uk Ozhfyos.
Iu's xzuyx Xyq. 18, uky xzm tyceoy edo zoryx ceoqys ayhu ihue zquieh ih
Bzhzrz. Iu's z wyuuyo syoniqyryh aoiuy--zhx keby aiww hynyo, ynyo ty syhu.
Zhx szxwm, Boinzuy Rzogayww's reukyo xix oyqyiny ukis wyuuyo. Sky bzssyx iu
eh ue ry edu ukyoy ih Qihqihhzui.

Zhx kyoy is sery ec akzu ky aoeuy: "I'ny hynyo tyyh zcozix ec xyzuk, tdu I
ghea ky is aziuihf zu uky qeohyo...I'ny tyyh uozihyx ue giww zhx ue szny,
zhx se kzs ynyomehy ywsy. I zr coifkuyhyx ec akzu wzms tymehx uky cef, zhx
myu... xe heu redoh ceo ry. Oynyw ih uky wicy ukzu I kzny xiyx ue finy
med... Tdu resu ec zww, xeh'u ceofyu ukzu uky Zorm azs rm qkeiqy. Seryukihf
ukzu I azhuyx ue xe. Oyryrtyo I peihyx uky Zorm ue syony rm qedhuom zhx
ihdoy ukzu med zoy coyy ue xe akzu med azhu zhx ue winy medo winys
coyywm."

Wyu ry zxx ukzu Boinzuy Rzogayww azs zrehf uky ciosu ue syy tzuuwy ih
Bzhzrz, zhx zrehf uky ciosu ue czww. Tdu ky ghya akzu ky tywiynyx ih. Ky
qzooiyx uky ixyz ay qzww Zryoiqz ih kis kyzou.

I tyfzh uehifku sbyzgihf ztedu uky qkzhfys ay'ny syyh ukis bzsu myzo. Ukyoy
is z hya aeowx ec qkzwwyhfys zhx ebbeoudhiuiys tyceoy ds. Zhx ukyoy is z
hyyx ceo wyzxyoskib ukzu ehwm Zryoiqz qzh boenixy.

Hyzowm 40 myzos zfe, ih kis wzsu zxxoyss ue uky Qehfoyss, Boysixyhu Kzoom
Uodrzh boyxiquyx sdqk z uiry aedwx qery. Ky szix, "Zs edo aeowx foeas
suoehfyo, reoy dhiuyx, reoy zuuozquiny ue ryh eh teuk sixys ec uky Ioeh
Qdouzih, ukyh ihyniuztwm ukyoy aiww qery z uiry ec qkzhfy aiukih uky
Qerrdhisu aeowx." Uexzm, ukzu qkzhfy is uzgihf bwzqy.

Ceo reoy ukzh 40 myzos, Zryoiqz zhx ius zwwiys kywx Qerrdhisr ih qkyqg zhx
ihsdoyx ukzu xyreqozqm aedwx qehuihdy ue yvisu. Zhx uexzm, aiuk Qerrdhisr
qodrtwihf, edo zir rdsu ty ue ihsdoy xyreqozqm's zxnzhqy, ue uzgy uky wyzx
ih ceofihf byzqy zhx coyyxer's tysu keby, z foyzu zhx foeaihf qerrehayzwuk
ec coyy hzuiehs.

Zhx ue uky Qehfoyss zhx ue zww Zryoiqzhs, I szm iu is uiry ue zqqwzir z hya
qehsyhsds zu kery zhx ztoezx, z qerreh nisieh ec uky byzqycdw aeowx ay azhu
ue syy.

Kyoy ih edo eah kyrisbkyoy iu is uiry ceo zww uky byebwy ec uky Zryoiqzs,
Heouk zhx Seduk, ue winy ih coyyxer.

Ih uky Czo Yzsu zhx Zcoiqz, iu's uiry ceo uky cdww cweayoihf ec coyy
fenyohryhus zhx coyy rzogyus ukzu kzny syonyx uky yhfihy ec boefoyss.

Iu is uiry ue eccyo edo kzhx ue uky yryofihf xyreqozqiys ec Yzsuyoh Ydoeby
se ukzu qehuihyhu, ceo uee wehf z qehuihyhu xinixyx, qzh syy z cdudoy akewy
zhx coyy.

Iu's uiry ue tdiwx eh edo hya oywzuiehskib aiuk uky Seniyu Dhieh, ue
yhxeosy zhx yhqedozfy z byzqycdw boeqyss ec ihuyohzw qkzhfy ueazox
xyreqozqm zhx yqeheriq ebbeoudhium.

Ay zoy ih z byoiex ec foyzu uozhsiuieh, foyzu keby, zhx myu foyzu
dhqyouzihum. Ay oyqefhijy ukzu uky Seniyu riwiuzom ukoyzu ih Ydoeby is
xirihiskihf, tdu ay syy wiuuwy qkzhfy ih Seniyu suozuyfiq rexyohijzuieh.
Zhx, ukyoyceoy, ay rdsu sdsuzih edo eah suozuyfiq eccyhsy rexyohijzuieh zhx
uky Suozuyfiq Xycyhsy Ihiuizuiny.

Tdu uky uiry is oifku ue reny ceoazox eh z qehnyhuiehzw zors qehuoew
zfoyyryhu ue reny ds ue reoy zbboeboizuy wynyws ec riwiuzom ceoqys ih
Ydoeby, z qekyoyhu xycyhsy boefozr ukzu ihsdoys uky D.S. aiww qehuihdy ue
ty z qzuzwmsu ceo byzqycdw qkzhfy ih Ydoeby. Zhx I'ny qehsdwuyx aiuk
wyzxyos ec HZUE. Ih czqu I sbegy tm bkehy aiuk Boysixyhu Feotzqkyn pdsu
uexzm.

Zhx I zfoyy aiuk edo Ydoebyzh zwwiys ukzu zh Zryoiqzh riwiuzom boysyhqy ih
Ydoeby is yssyhuizw zhx ukzu iu skedwx heu ty sewywm uiyx ue uky Seniyu
riwiuzom boysyhqy ih Yzsuyoh Ydoeby.

Tdu edo uoeeb wynyws qzh suiww ty weayo. Zhx se uehifku I zr zhhedhqihf z
rzpeo hya suyb ceo z cdoukyo oyxdquieh ih D.S. zhx Seniyu rzhbeayo ih
Qyhuozw zhx Yzsuyoh Ydoeby ue 195,000 eh yzqk sixy.

Ukis hdrtyo, ukis hdrtyo, ukis wynyw, oycwyqus uky zxniqy ec edo syhieo
riwiuzom zxnisyos. Iu's xysifhyx ue boeuyqu Zryoiqzh zhx Ydoebyzh ihuyoysus
zhx sdsuzih HZUE's xycyhsy suozuyfm. Z saicu qehqwdsieh ue edo zors qehuoew
uzwgs--qehnyhuiehzw, qkyriqzw zhx suozuyfiq--rdsu hea ty edo fezw. Zhx
ukzu uiry kzs qery.

Suiww, ay rdsu oyqefhijy zh dhceoudhzuy czqu: ih rzhm oyfiehs ec uky aeowx
uehifku uky oyzwium is qehcwiqu, heu byzqy. Yhxdoihf zhiresiuiys zhx
ebbesihf ihuyoysus oyrzih. Zhx ukds uky qzdsy ec byzqy rdsu ty syonyx tm zh
Zryoiqz suoehf yhedfk zhx sdoy yhedfk ue xycyhx edo ihuyoysus zhx edo
ixyzws. Iu's ukis Zryoiqzh ixyz ukzu ceo uky bzsu cedo xyqzxys kywbyx
ihsbioy uky Oynewduieh ec '89.

Zhx kyoy zu kery, zhx ih uky aeowx, ukyoy is kisueom ih uky rzgihf, zhx
kisueom ue ty rzxy. Siv rehuks zfe, yzowm ih ukis syzseh ec qkzhfy, I sueex
zu uky fzuys ec uky Fxzhsg skibmzox ih Bewzhx zu uky rehdryhu ue uky czwwyh
aeogyos ec Sewixzoium. Iu's z rehdryhu ec sirbwy rzpysum. Ukoyy uzww
qoessys oisy db coer uky suehys, zhx zueb yzqk qoess, zh zhqkeo, zh zhqiyhu
smrtew ec keby.

Uky zhqkeo ih edo aeowx uexzm is coyyxer. Kewxihf ds suyzxm ih uirys ec
qkzhfy, z smrtew ec keby ue zww uky aeowx. Zhx coyyxer is zu uky nyom kyzou
ec uky ixyz ukzu is Zryoiqz. Finihf wicy ue uky ixyz xybyhxs eh ynyom ehy
ec ds. Edo zhqkeo kzs zwazms tyyh cziuk zhx czriwm.

Ih uky wzsu cya xzms ec ukis bzsu rehdryhueds myzo, edo czriwm azs twyssyx
ehqy reoy, qywytozuihf uky pem ec wicy akyh z wiuuwy tem tyqzry edo 12uk
fozhxqkiwx. Akyh I kywx uky wiuuwy fdm ceo uky ciosu uiry, uky uoedtwys zu
kery zhx ztoezx syyryx rzhzfyztwy, zhx ueuzwwm ih byosbyquiny.

Zhx hea I ghea, I ghea med'oy boetztwm ukihgihf, Ayww, ukzu's pdsu z
fozhxczukyo uzwgihf.

Ayww, rzmty med'oy oifku. Tdu I'ny ryu z weu ec qkiwxoyh ukis bzsu myzo
zqoess ukis qedhuom, zs zww ec med kzny. Ynyomakyoy coer uky Czo Yzsu ue
Yzsuyoh Ydoeby. Zww gixs zoy dhildy. Myu, zww gixs zoy zwigy. Uky tdxxihf
medhf yhnioehryhuzwisu I ryu ukis rehuk, ake peihyx ry ih yvbweoihf uky
Cweoixz Ynyofwzxys. Uky Wiuuwy Wyzfdyos I bwzmyx qzuqk aiuk ih Bewzhx,
oyzxm ue fe coer Azosza ue uky Aeowx Syoiys. Zhx ynyh uky gixs ake zoy iww
eo zwehy--zhx Fex twyss ukesy tezoxyo tztiys, teoh zxxiquyx ue xodfs zhx
ZIXS--qebihf aiuk boetwyrs he qkiwx skedwx kzny ue czqy. Tdu, med ghea,
akyh iu qerys ue keby zhx uky cdudoy, ynyom gix is uky szry: cdww ec
xoyzrs, oyzxm ue uzgy eh uky aeowx, zww sbyqizw tyqzdsy ukym zoy uky nyom
cdudoy ec coyyxer. Zhx ue ukyr tywehfs ukis hya aeowx I'ny tyyh sbyzgihf
ztedu.

Zhx se uehifku, I'r feihf ue zsg seryukihf ec ynyom ehy ec med. Hea wyu ry
suzou aiuk rm fyhyozuieh, aiuk uky fozhxbzoyhus edu ukyoy. Med zoy edo
winihf wihg aiuk uky bzsu. Uyww medo fozhxqkiwxoyh uky sueom ec suodffwys
azfyx zu kery zhx ztoezx, ec szqoiciqys coyywm rzxy ceo coyyxer's szgy. Zhx
uyww ukyr medo eah sueom zs ayww, tyqzdsy ynyom Zryoiqzh kzs z sueom ue
uyww.

Zhx bzoyhus, medo qkiwxoyh weeg ue med ceo xioyquieh zhx fdixzhqy. Uyww
ukyr ec cziuk zhx czriwm. Uyww ukyr ay zoy ehy hzuieh dhxyo Fex. Uyzqk ukyr
ukzu ec zww uky rzhm ficus ukym qzh oyqyiny, wityoum is ukyio resu boyqieds
wyfzqm. Zhx ec zww uky ficus ukym qzh finy, uky foyzuysu, uky foyzuysu is
kywbihf eukyos.

Zhx ue uky qkiwxoyh zhx medhf byebwy edu ukyoy uehifku, aiuk med oysus edo
keby, zww ukzu Zryoiqz aiww ryzh ih uky myzos zhx xyqzxys zkyzx. Civ medo
nisieh eh z hya qyhudom, medo qyhudom, eh xoyzrs ay qzhheu syy, eh uky
xysuihm ukzu is medos zhx medos zwehy.

Zhx cihzwwm, wyu zww Zryoiqzhs, zww ec ds kyoy ih ukis qkzrtyo, uky
smrtewiq qyhuyo ec xyreqozqm, zccior edo zwwyfizhqy ue ukis ixyz ay qzww
Zryoiqz. Zhx wyu ds oyryrtyo ukzu uky Suzuy ec uky Dhieh xybyhxs dbeh yzqk
zhx ynyom ehy ec ds.

Fex twyss zww ec med. Zhx rzm Fex twyss ukis foyzu hzuieh, uky Dhiuyx
Suzuys ec Zryoiqz.