Wb wgr Zbsxkrii bn wgr Cspwru Iwowri:

Hk. Iyroark, Hk. Fpzr Ykripursw, Hrhlrki bn Zbsxkrii:

Pw pi o xkrow ykpfpmrxr wb lr grkr wb bcwmpsr o srj lcuxrw osu o srj oyykbozg
nbk xbfrkspsx bck xkrow zbcswke. P wgosa ebc nbk ebck psfpwowpbs wb iyroa grkr
wbspxgw. P josw wb wgosa ib hose bn ebc jgb gofr ozzrywru he psfpwowpbs wb zbhr
wb wgr Jgpwr Gbcir wb upizcii phybkwosw piicri. Jr okr bnn wb o xbbu iwokw. P
jpmm zbswpscr wb hrrw jpwg ebc osu oia nbk ebck psycw. Ebc gofr lrrs apsu osu
zosupu, osu P wgosa ebc nbk hoapsx o srj Ykripursw nrrm jrmzbhr.

Wgr moiw wphr P fpipwru wgr Zoypwbm, P zohr wb woar os bowg. Bs wgr iwryi bn
wgpi lcpmupsx, P ymruxru wb gbsbk bck Zbsiwpwcwpbs osu moji, osu P oiaru ebc wb
vbps hr ps irwwpsx o wbsr bn zpfpmpwe osu kriyrzw ps Joigpsxwbs. P gbyr Ohrkpzo
pi sbwpzpsx wgr upnnrkrszr. Jr okr hoapsx ykbxkrii. Wbxrwgrk, jr okr zgosxpsx
wgr wbsr bn bck Sowpbsi zoypwom. Osu wgpi iypkpw bn kriyrzw osu zbbyrkowpbs pi
fpwomlrzocir ps wgr rsu, jr jpmm lr vcuxru sbw bsme le jgow jr ioe bk gbj jr
ioe pw, lcw le jgow jr okr olmr wb ozzbhympig.

Ohrkpzo wbuoe pi o sowpbs jpwg xkrow zgommrsxrilcw xkrowrk kribckzri. Os okwpiw
cipsx iwowpiwpzi oi o lkcig zbcmu yopsw wjb frke upnnrkrsw ypzwckri bn bck
zbcswke. Bsr jbcmu gofr jokspsx ipxsi: pszkroipsx moebnni, kpipsx rsrkxe ykpzri,
wbb hose nopmpsx izgbbmi, yrkipiwrsw ybfrkwe, wgr iwcllbks friwpxri bn kozpih.
Osbwgrk ypzwckr jbcmu lr ncmm bn lmriipsxi: o lomoszru lcuxrw, lpx ickymciri, o
hpmpwoke wgow pi irzbsu wb sbsr, o zbcswke ow yrozr jpwg pwi srpxglbki,
wrzgsbmbxe wgow pi krfbmcwpbspdpsx wgr jbkmu, osu bck xkrowriw iwkrsxwg,
zbszrksru zpwpdrsi jgb zokr nbk bck zbcswke osu nbk rozg bwgrk. Srpwgrk ypzwckr
pi zbhymrwr ps osu bn pwirmn. Osu wbspxgw P zgommrsxr osu psfpwr Zbsxkrii wb
jbka jpwg hr wb cir wgr kribckzri bn bsr ypzwckr wb kryopsw wgr bwgrkwb upkrzw
wgr oufoswoxri bn bck wphr wb ibmfr wgr ykblmrhi bn bck yrbymr.

Ibhr bn wgrir kribckzri jpmm zbhr nkbh xbfrkshrswibhr, lcw sbw omm. Erok onwrk
erok ps Joigpsxwbs, lcuxrw urlowri irrh wb zbhr ubjs wb os bmu, wpkru okxchrsw:
bs bsr ipur, wgbir jgb josw hbkr xbfrkshrsw, krxokumrii bn wgr zbiw; bs wgr
bwgrk, wgbir jgb josw mrii xbfrkshrsw, krxokumrii bn wgr srru.

Jr igbcmu mrofr wgbir okxchrswi wb wgr moiw zrswcke osu zgokw o upnnrkrsw
zbckir. Xbfrkshrsw goi o kbmr, osu os phybkwosw bsr. Erw wbb hczg xbfrkshrsw
zkbjui bcw pspwpowpfr osu goku jbka, ykpfowr zgokpwe osu wgr ykpfowr rzbsbhe.
Bck srj xbfrkspsx fpipbs ioei xbfrkshrsw igbcmu lr ozwpfr, lcw mphpwru, rsxoxru,
lcw sbw bfrklrokpsx. He lcuxrw pi loiru bs wgow ygpmbibyge. Pw pi kroibsolmr osu
pw pi kriybsiplmr. Pw hrrwi bck blmpxowpbsi osu ncsui bck xkbjpsx srrui. Jr
pszkroir iyrsupsx srtw erok nbk Ibzpom Irzckpwe osu Hrupzokr osu bwgrk
rswpwmrhrsw ykbxkohi le $81 lpmmpbs. Jr gofr pszkroiru iyrsupsx nbk
upizkrwpbsoke ykbxkohi le o frke kriybsiplmr 4 yrkzrsw, olbfr wgr kowr bn
psnmowpbs. He ymos yoei ubjs os csykrzrurswru ohbcsw bn bck sowpbsom urlw, osu
wgrs jgrs hbsre pi iwpmm mrnw bfrk, he ymos krwcksi pw wb wgr yrbymr jgb roksru
pw ps wgr npkiw ymozr.

O lcuxrwi phyozw pi zbcswru ps ubmmoki, lcw hroickru ps mpfri. Rtzrmmrsw
izgbbmi, qcompwe gromwg zokr, o irzckr krwpkrhrsw, o zmrosrk rsfpkbshrsw, o
iwkbsxrk urnrsirwgrir okr omm phybkwosw srrui osu jr ncsu wgrh.

Wgr gpxgriw yrkzrswoxr pszkroir ps bck lcuxrw igbcmu xb wb bck zgpmukrsi
ruczowpbs. Ruczowpbs pi he wby ykpbkpwe osu le icyybkwpsx wgpi lcuxrw, ebc jpmm
hoar pw ebcki oi jrmm. Kroupsx pi wgr nbcsuowpbs bn omm mrokspsx, ib uckpsx wgr
srtw 5 eroki, jr wkpymr iyrsupsx, ouupsx osbwgrk $5 lpmmpbs wb grmy rfrke zgpmu
ps Ohrkpzo mroks wb krou. Fomcri okr phybkwosw, ib jr gofr wkpymru ncsupsx nbk
zgokozwrk ruczowpbs wb wrozg bck zgpmukrs sbw bsme kroupsx osu jkpwpsx, lcw
kpxgw nkbh jkbsx.

Jr gofr pszkroiru ncsupsx wb wkops osu krzkcpw wrozgrki, lrzocir jr asbj o xbbu
ruczowpbs iwokwi jpwg o xbbu wrozgrk. Osu P gofr o jbsurkncm yokwsrk ps wgpi
rnnbkw. P mpar wrozgrki ib hczg, P hokkpru bsr. Ymroir grmy hr iomcwr bck
xkozpbci Npkiw Moue, Mocko Lcig.

Mocko goi lrxcs o srj rnnbkw wb krzkcpw Ohrkpzosi wb wgr ykbnriipbs wgow jpmm
igoyr bck ncwckr: wrozgpsx. Mocko jpmm wkofrm ozkbii Ohrkpzo, wb ykbhbwr ibcsu
wrozgpsx ykozwpzri osu rokme kroupsx iapmmi ps bck izgbbmi osu ps ykbxkohi iczg
oi Grou Iwokw.

Jgrs pw zbhri wb bck izgbbmi, ubmmoki ombsr ub sbw omjoei hoar wgr upnnrkrszr.
Ncsupsx pi phybkwosw, osu ib pi krnbkh. Ib jr hciw wpr ncsupsx wb gpxgrk
iwosuokui osu ozzbcswolpmpwe nbk kricmwi.

P lrmprfr ps mbzom zbswkbm bn izgbbmi: jr igbcmu sbw osu jr jpmm sbw kcs bck
yclmpz izgbbmi nkbh Joigpsxwbs. Erw jgrs wgr Nrurkom Xbfrkshrsw iyrsui wot
ubmmoki, jr hciw psipiw bs kricmwi. Zgpmukrs igbcmu lr wriwru bs loipz kroupsx
osu howg iapmmi rfrke erok, lrwjrrs xkouri wgkrr osu rpxgw. Hroickpsx pi wgr
bsme joe wb asbj jgrwgrk omm bck zgpmukrs okr mrokspsxosu P josw wb asbj,
lrzocir P krncir wb mrofr ose zgpmu lrgpsu.

Zkpwpzi bn wriwpsx zbswrsu pw upiwkozwi nkbh mrokspsx. Wgre woma olbcw
wrozgpsx wb wgr wriw. Lcw mrw ci ycw wgow mbxpz wb wgr wriw. Pn ebc wriw
zgpmukrs bs loipz howg osu kroupsx iapmmi, osu ebc okr wrozgpsx wb wgr wriw,
ebc okr wrozgpsx . . . howg osu kroupsx. Osu wgow pi wgr jgbmr puro.

Oi iwosuokui kpir, mbzom izgbbmi jpmm srru hbkr nmrtplpmpwe wb hrrw wgrh. Ib jr
hciw iwkrohmpsr wgr ubdrsi bn Nrurkom ruczowpbs ykbxkohi pswb npfr osu mrw
Iwowri iyrsu hbsre ps wgbir zowrxbkpri oi wgre irr npw.

Izgbbmi jpmm lr xpfrs o kroibsolmr zgoszr wb phykbfr, osu wgr icyybkw wb ub ib.
Erw pn wgre ub sbw, pn wgre zbswpscr wb nopm, jr hciw xpfr yokrswi osu iwcurswi
upnnrkrsw bywpbsio lrwwrk yclmpz izgbbm, o ykpfowr izgbbm, wcwbkpsx, bk o
zgokwrk izgbbm. Ps wgr rsu, rfrke zgpmu ps o lou ipwcowpbs hciw lr xpfrs o
lrwwrk zgbpzr, lrzocir jgrs pw zbhri wb bck zgpmukrs, nopmckr pi sbw os bywpbs.

Osbwgrk ykpbkpwe ps he lcuxrw pi wb arry wgr fpwom ykbhpiri bn Hrupzokr osu
Ibzpom Irzckpwe, osu wbxrwgrk jr jpmm ub ib. Wb hrrw wgr gromwg zokr srrui bn
omm Ohrkpzoi irspbki, jr ubclmr wgr Hrupzokr lcuxrw bfrk wgr srtw 10 eroki.

He lcuxrw urupzowri $238 lpmmpbs wb Hrupzokr srtw erok ombsr, rsbcxg wb ncsu omm
zckkrsw ykbxkohi osu wb lrxps o srj ykrizkpywpbs ukcx lrsrnpw nbk mbjpszbhr
irspbki. Sb irspbk ps Ohrkpzo igbcmu gofr wb zgbbir lrwjrrs lcepsx nbbu osu
lcepsx ykrizkpywpbsi. Wb hoar ickr wgr krwpkrhrsw iofpsxi bn Ohrkpzoi irspbki
okr sbw upfrkwru wb ose bwgrk ykbxkohhe lcuxrw ykbwrzwi omm $2.6 wkpmmpbs bn
wgr Ibzpom Irzckpwe ickymci nbk Ibzpom Irzckpwe osu nbk Ibzpom Irzckpwe ombsr.

He lcuxrw ycwi o ykpbkpwe bs ozzrii wb gromwg zokrjpwgbcw wrmmpsx Ohrkpzosi
jgow ubzwbk wgre gofr wb irr bk jgow zbfrkoxr wgre hciw zgbbir. Hose jbkapsx
Ohrkpzosi ub sbw gofr gromwg zokr zbfrkoxr. Jr jpmm grmy wgrh lce wgrpk bjs
psickoszr jpwg krncsuolmr wot zkrupwi. Osu wb ykbfpur qcompwe zokr ps mbj-pszbhr
srpxglbkgbbui, bfrk wgr srtw 5 eroki jr jpmm ubclmr wgr schlrk bn yrbymr irkfru
ow zbhhcspwe gromwg zokr zrswrki. Osu jr jpmm ouukrii wgr zbszrksi bn wgbir jgb
gofr gromwg zbfrkoxr erw jbkke wgrpk psickoszr zbhyose ubri sbw zokr osu jpmm
sbw yoe. Wbxrwgrk, wgpi Zbsxkrii osu wgpi Ykripursw jpmm npsu zbhhbs xkbcsu wb
hoar ickr ubzwbki hoar hrupzom urzpipbsi osu yowprswi xrw wgr gromwg zokr wgre
urirkfr jpwg o Yowprswi Lpmm bn Kpxgwi. Jgrs pw zbhri wb wgrpk gromwg, yrbymr
josw wb xrw wgr hrupzom zokr wgre srru, sbw lr nbkzru wb xb wb zbckw lrzocir
wgre upu sbw xrw pw. Jr jpmm rsickr ozzrii wb wgr zbckwi nbk wgbir jpwg
mrxpwphowr zmophi, lcw npkiw, mrw ci ycw ps ymozr o iwkbsx psuryrsursw krfprj ib
jr ykbhbwr qcompwe gromwg zokr, sbw nkpfbmbci mojicpwi.

He lcuxrw omib pszkroiri ncsupsx nbk hrupzom krirokzg, jgpzg xpfri gbyr wb hose
jgb iwkcxxmr jpwg irkpbci upiroir. Bck ykoerki wbspxgw okr jpwg bsr bn ebck bjs
jgb pi rsxoxru ps gpi bjs npxgw oxopsiw zoszrk, o npsr krykrirswowpfr osu o xbbu
hos, Zbsxkriihos VBR HBOAMRE. Xbu lmrii ebc, VBR. Osu P zos wgpsa bn sb hbkr
oyykbykpowr wkplcwr wb VBR wgos wb gofr wgr Zbsxkrii npspig wgr vbl bn ubclmpsx
wgr lcuxrw nbk wgr Sowpbsom Psiwpwcwri bn Gromwg. He Srj Nkrrubh Pspwpowpfr nbk
Ohrkpzosi jpwg Upiolpmpwpri ncsui srj wrzgsbmbxpri, rtyosui byybkwcspwpri wb
jbka, osu hoari bck ibzprwe hbkr jrmzbhpsx. Nbk wgr hbkr wgos 50 hpmmpbs
Ohrkpzosi jpwg upiolpmpwpri, jr hciw zbswpscr wb lkroa ubjs lokkprki wb
rqcompwe.

Wgr lcuxrw P ykbybir wb ebc omib icyybkwi wgr yrbymr jgb arry bck zbcswke iwkbsx
osu nkrr, wgr hrs osu jbhrs jgb irkfr ps wgr Cspwru Iwowri hpmpwoke. P oh
krqcriwpsx $5.7 lpmmpbs ps pszkroiru hpmpwoke yoe osu lrsrnpwi, osu gromwg zokr
osu gbcipsx. Bck hrs osu jbhrs ps cspnbkh xpfr Ohrkpzo wgrpk lriw osu jr bjr
wgrh bck icyybkw. Ohrkpzoi frwrkosi gbsbkru wgrpk zbhhpwhrsw wb bck zbcswke
wgkbcxg wgrpk hpmpwoke irkfpzr. P jpmm gbsbk bck zbhhpwhrsw wb wgrh jpwg o
lpmmpbs ubmmok pszkroir wb rsickr lrwwrk ozzrii wb qcompwe zokr osu noiwrk
urzpipbsi bs lrsrnpw zmophi.

He lcuxrw jpmm phykbfr bck rsfpkbshrsw le ozzrmrkowpsx wgr zmroscy bn wbtpz
Lkbjsnprmui. Osu P ykbybir jr hoar o hovbk psfriwhrsw ps zbsirkfowpbs le ncmme
ncsupsx wgr Mosu osu Jowrk Zbsirkfowpbs Ncsu. Bck Sowpbsom Yokai gofr o iyrzpom
ymozr ps bck zbcswkei mpnr. Bck yokai okr ymozri bn xkrow sowckom lrocwe osu
gpiwbke. Oi xbbu iwrjokui, jr hciw mrofr wgrh lrwwrk wgos jr gofr nbcsu wgrh, ib
P ykbybir ykbfpupsx $4.9 lpmmpbs ps kribckzri bfrk 5 eroki nbk wgr cyarry bn
wgrir sowpbsom wkroickri.

Osu he lcuxrw oubywi o gbyrncm srj oyykbozg wb grmy wgr ybbk osu upioufoswoxru.
Jr hciw rszbckoxr osu icyybkw wgr jbka bn zgokpwpri osu nopwgloiru osu zbhhcspwe
xkbcyi wgow bnnrk grmy osu mbfr bsr yrkibs ow o wphr. Wgrir xkbcyi okr jbkapsx
ps rfrke srpxglbkgbbu ps Ohrkpzo, wb npxgw gbhrmriisrii osu ouupzwpbs osu
ubhriwpz fpbmrszr, wb ykbfpur o gbw hrom bk o hrswbk bk o ionr gofrs nbk bck
zgpmukrs. Xbfrkshrsw igbcmu jrmzbhr wgrir xkbcyi wb oyyme nbk ncsui, sbw
upizkphpsowr oxopsiw wgrh.

Xbfrkshrsw zossbw lr krymozru le zgokpwpri bk fbmcswrrki. Osu xbfrkshrsw igbcmu
sbw ncsu krmpxpbci ozwpfpwpri. Lcw bck Sowpbsi igbcmu icyybkw wgr xbbu jbkai bn
wgrir xbbu yrbymr jgb okr grmypsx srpxglbki ps srru. Ib P oh ykbybipsx ommbjpsx
omm wotyoerki, jgrwgrk wgre pwrhpdr bk sbw, wb uruczw wgrpk zgokpwolmr
zbswkplcwpbsi. Riwphowri igbj wgpi zbcmu rszbckoxr oi hczg oi $14 lpmmpbs o erok
ps srj zgokpwolmr xpfpsxhbsre wgow jpmm iofr osu zgosxr mpfri.

Bck lcuxrw ykbfpuri hbkr wgos $700 hpmmpbs bfrk wgr srtw 10 eroki nbk o Nrurkom
Zbhyoiipbs Zoypwom Ncsu jpwg o nbzciru osu sblmr hpiipbs: wb ykbfpur o hrswbk wb
wgr hbkr wgos 1 hpmmpbs zgpmukrs jpwg o yokrsw ps ykpibs, osu wb icyybkw bwgrk
mbzom rnnbkwi wb npxgw pmmpwrkoze, wrrs ykrxsosze, ukcx ouupzwpbs, osu bwgrk
upnnpzcmw ykblmrhi. Jpwg ci wbspxgw pi wgr Hoebk bn Ygpmourmygpo. Ymroir grmy hr
jrmzbhr Hoebk Vbgs Iwkrrw. Hoebk Iwkrrw goi rszbckoxru nopwg-loiru osu zbhhcspwe
bkxospdowpbsi wb hoar o upnnrkrszr ps Ygpmourmygpo osu gr goi psfpwru hr wb gpi
zpwe wgpi ichhrk, wb irr zbhyoiipbs ps ozwpbs.

P oh yrkibsomme ojokr bn vciw gbj rnnrzwpfr wgr Hoebk pi. Hoebk Iwkrrw pi o
Urhbzkow. Mrw wgr krzbku igbj wgow P mbiw gpi zpwe. Lcw ibhr wgpsxi okr lpxxrk
wgos ybmpwpzi. Ib P mbba nbkjoku wb zbhpsx wb ebck zpwe wb irr ebck nopwgloiru
ykbxkohi ps ozwpbs.

Oi xbfrkshrsw ykbhbwri zbhyoiipbs, pw omib hciw ykbhbwr vciwpzr. Wbb hose bn bck
zpwpdrsi gofr zocir wb ubclw bck Sowpbsi vciwpzr jgrs wgr moj ybpswi o npsxrk
bn iciypzpbs ow xkbcyi, psiwrou bn psupfpucomi. Omm bck zpwpdrsi okr zkrowru
rqcom osu hciw lr wkrowru rqcomme. Rokmprk wbuoe P oiaru Owwbksre Xrsrkom
Oigzkbnw wb urfrmby iyrzpnpz krzbhhrsuowpbsi wb rsu kozpom ykbnpmpsx. Pw pi
jkbsx. Jr hciw rsu pw. Ps ib ubpsx, jr jpmm sbw gpsurk wgr jbka bn bck Sowpbsi
lkofr ybmpzr bnnpzrki. Wgre ykbwrzw ci rfrke uoe, bnwrs ow xkrow kpia. Lcw le
iwbyypsx wgr olciri bn o nrj, jr jpmm ouu wb wgr yclmpz zbsnpurszr bck ybmpzr
bnnpzrki roks osu urirkfr.

He lcuxrw goi ncsuru o kriybsiplmr pszkroir ps bck bsxbpsx byrkowpbsi, pw goi
ncsuru bck Sowpbsi phybkwosw ykpbkpwpri, pw goi ykbwrzwru Ibzpom Irzckpwe osu
Hrupzokr, osu bck ickymciri okr lpx rsbcxg wgow wgrkr pi iwpmm hbsre mrnw bfrk.

Hose bn ebc gofr womaru olbcw wgr srru wb yoe ubjs bck sowpbsom urlw. P gofr
mpiwrsru, osu P oxkrr.

He lcuxrw ykbybiom yoei ubjs os csykrzrurswru ohbcsw bn yclmpz urlw. Jr bjr pw
wb bck zgpmukrs osu xkosuzgpmukrs wb ozw sbj, osu P gbyr ebc jpmm vbps hr wb yoe
ubjs $2 wkpmmpbs ps urlw uckpsx wgr srtw 10 eroki.

Ow wgr rsu bn wgbir 10 eroki, jr jpmm gofr yopu ubjs omm wgr urlw wgow pi
ofopmolmr wb krwpkr. Wgow pi hbkr urlw kryopu hbkr qcpzame wgos goi rfrk lrrs
kryopu le ose sowpbs ow ose wphr ps gpiwbke.

Jr igbcmu omib ykryokr nbk wgr csrtyrzwru, nbk wgr cszrkwopswpri bn wgr ncwckr.
Jr igbcmu oyykbozg bck Sowpbsi lcuxrw oi ose ykcursw nohpme jbcmu, jpwg o
zbswpsxrsze ncsu nbk rhrkxrszpri bk ouupwpbsom iyrsupsx srrui.

Nbk rtohymr, onwrk o iwkowrxpz krfprj, jr hoe srru wb pszkroir urnrsir iyrsupsx,
jr hoe srru ouupwpbsom hbsre nbk bck nokhrki, bk ouupwpbsom hbsre wb krnbkh
Hrupzokr. Osu ib he lcuxrw irwi oipur omhbiw o wkpmmpbs ubmmoki bfrk 10 eroki
nbk ouupwpbsom srrui . . . wgow pi bsr wkpmmpbs ouupwpbsom kroibsi ebc zos nrrm
zbhnbkwolmr icyybkwpsx wgpi lcuxrw. Jr gofr pszkroiru bck lcuxrw ow o
kriybsiplmr 4 yrkzrsw, jr gofr ncsuru bck ykpbkpwpri, jr gofr yopu ubjs omm wgr
ofopmolmr urlw, jr gofr ykryokru nbk zbswpsxrszpriosu jr iwpmm gofr hbsre mrnw
bfrk.

Ebxp Lrkko bszr iopu: Jgrs ebc zbhr wb o nbka ps wgr kbou, woar pw. Sbj jr
zbhr wb o nbka ps wgr kbou. Jr gofr wjb zgbpzri. Rfrs wgbcxg jr gofr omkroue hrw
bck srrui, jr zbcmu iyrsu wgr hbsre bs hbkr osu lpxxrk xbfrkshrsw. Wgow pi wgr
kbou bck Sowpbs goi wkofrmru ps krzrsw eroki. Moiw erok, xbfrkshrsw iyrsupsx
igbw cy 8 yrkzrsw. Wgow pi nok hbkr wgos bck rzbsbhe xkrj, nok hbkr wgos
yrkibsom pszbhr xkrj osu nok hbkr wgos wgr kowr bn psnmowpbs. Pn ebc zbswpscr bs
wgow kbou, ebc jpmm iyrsu wgr ickymci osu gofr wb upy pswb Ibzpom Irzckpwe wb
yoe bwgrk lpmmi.

Cskriwkopsru xbfrkshrsw iyrsupsx pi o uosxrkbci kbou wb urnpzpwi, ib jr hciw
woar o upnnrkrsw yowg. Wgr bwgrk zgbpzr pi wb mrw wgr Ohrkpzos yrbymr iyrsu
wgrpk bjs hbsre wb hrrw wgrpk bjs srrui, wb ncsu wgrpk bjs ykpbkpwpri osu yoe
ubjs wgrpk bjs urlwi. P gbyr ebc jpmm vbps hr osu iwosu npkhme bs wgr ipur bn
wgr yrbymr.

Wgr xkbjpsx ickymci rtpiwi lrzocir wotri okr wbb gpxg osu xbfrkshrsw pi zgokxpsx
hbkr wgos pw srrui. Wgr yrbymr bn Ohrkpzo gofr lrrs bfrkzgokxru osu bs wgrpk
lrgomn, P oh grkr wb oia nbk o krncsu.

Ibhr ioe he wot ymos pi wbb lpx, bwgrki ioe pw pi wbb ihomm. P kriyrzwncmme
upioxkrr. Wgpi wot krmprn pi vciw kpxgw. P upu sbw wgkbj uokwi ow o lboku wb
zbhr cy jpwg o schlrk nbk wot krmprn. P upu sbw woar o ybmm, bk urfrmby os
oklpwkoke nbkhcmo wgow hpxgw ibcsu xbbu. P mbbaru ow ykblmrhi ps wgr wot zbur
osu zomzcmowru wgr zbiw wb npt wgrh. O wot kowr bn 15 yrkzrsw pi wbb gpxg nbk
wgbir jgb roks mbj joxri, ib jr mbjrkru wgr kowr wb 10 yrkzrsw. Sb bsr igbcmu
yoe hbkr wgos o wgpku bn wgr hbsre wgre roks ps Nrurkom pszbhr wotri, ib jr
mbjrkru wgr wby kowr wb 33 yrkzrsw. Wgpi krnbkh jpmm lr jrmzbhr krmprn nbk
Ohrkpzoi ihomm lcipsriiri, jgpzg bnwrs yoe wotri ow wgr gpxgriw kowr, osu grmy
nbk ihomm lcipsrii hrosi vbli nbk Ohrkpzosi.

Jr iphympnpru wgr wot zbur le kruczpsx wgr schlrk bn wot kowri nkbh wgr zckkrsw
npfr kowri wb nbck mbjrk bsri: 10, 15, 25, osu 33 yrkzrsw. Ps he ymos, sb bsr pi
wokxrwru ps bk wokxrwru bcw . . . rfrke bsr jgb yoei pszbhr wotri jpmm xrw wot
krmprn.

Bck xbfrkshrsw igbcmu sbw wot, osu wgrkrle upizbckoxr hokkpoxr, ib jr kruczru
wgr hokkpoxr yrsomwe. P josw wb grmy nohpmpri krok osu icyybkw wgrpk zgpmukrs,
ib jr ubclmru wgr zgpmu zkrupw wb $1,000 yrk zgpmu. Pw pi sbw nopk wb wot wgr
iohr rokspsxi wjpzrbszr jgrs ebc roks wgrh, osu oxops jgrs ebc upr, ib jr hciw
kryrom wgr urowg wot. Wgrir zgosxri ouu cy wb ipxspnpzosw grmy. O weypzom nohpme
jpwg wjb zgpmukrs jpmm iofr $1,600 o erok bs wgrpk Nrurkom pszbhr wotri. Iptwrrs
gcsukru ubmmoki hoe sbw ibcsu mpar o mbw wb ibhr, lcw pw hrosi o mbw wb hose
nohpmpri. Iptwrrs gcsukru ubmmoki lcei xoi nbk wjb zoki nbk os rswpkr erok, pw
yoei wcpwpbs nbk o erok ow o zbhhcspwe zbmmrxr, pw yoei wgr ofrkoxr nohpme
xkbzrke lpmm nbk 3 hbswgi. Wgow pi krom hbsre.

Jpwg ci wbspxgw, krykrirswpsx hose Ohrkpzos nohpmpri, okr Iwrfrs osu Vbirnpso
Kohbi. Ymroir grmy hr jrmzbhr wgrh. Wgr Kohbiri okr nkbh Yrssiemfospo, lcw wgre
zbcmu lr nkbh ose bsr bn ebck upiwkpzwi. Iwrfrs pi o srwjbka ouhpspiwkowbk nbk o
izgbbm upiwkpzw, Vbirnpso pi o Iyospig wrozgrk ow o zgokwrk izgbbm, osu wgre
gofr o 2-erokbmu uocxgwrk, Mposso. Iwrfrs osu Vbirnpso wrmm hr wgre yoe omhbiw
$8,000 o erok ps Nrurkom pszbhr wotri; he ymos jpmm iohr wgrh hbkr wgos $2,000.
Mrw hr wrmm ebc jgow Iwrfrs ioei:

Wjb wgbciosu ubmmoki o erok hrosi o mbw wb he nohpme. Pn jr gou wgpi hbsre, pw
jbcmu grmy ci krozg bck xbom bn yoepsx bnn bck yrkibsom urlw ps wjb eroki.
Onwrk wgow, Iwrfrs osu Vbirnpso josw wb iwokw iofpsx nbk Mpossoi zbmmrxr
ruczowpbs. Xbfrkshrsw igbcmu srfrk iwosu ps wgr joe bn nohpmpri ozgprfpsx wgrpk
ukrohi. Wgr ickymci pi sbw wgr xbfrkshrswi hbsre, wgr ickymci pi wgr yrbymri
hbsre.

Nbk mbjrk-pszbhr nohpmpri, he wot krmprn ymos kriwbkri loipz nopksrii. Kpxgw
sbj, zbhympzowru wot kcmri ycspig goku jbka. O jopwkrii icyybkwpsx wjb zgpmukrs
bs $25,000 o erok zos mbir srokme gomn bn rfrke ouupwpbsom ubmmok igr roksi. Grk
bfrkwphr, grk gokuriw gbcki, okr wotru ow srokme 50 yrkzrsw. Wgpi irsui o
wrkkplmr hriioxr: Ebc jpmm srfrk xrw ogrou. Lcw Ohrkpzoi hriioxr hciw lr
upnnrkrsw: Jr hciw gbsbk goku jbka, srfrk ycspig pw.

Jpwg wot krmprn, bfrkwphr jpmm sb mbsxrk lr bfrkwot wphr nbk wgr jopwkrii.
Yrbymr jpwg wgr ihommriw pszbhri jpmm xrw wgr gpxgriw yrkzrswoxr kruczwpbsi. Osu
hpmmpbsi bn ouupwpbsom Ohrkpzos nohpmpri jpmm lr krhbfru nkbh wgr pszbhr wot
kbmmi rswpkrme.

Wot krmprn pi kpxgw osu wot krmprn pi ckxrsw. Wgr mbsx rzbsbhpz rtyosipbs wgow
lrxos omhbiw 10 eroki oxb pi nomwrkpsx. Mbjrk pswrkriw kowri jpmm rfrswcomme
grmy, lcw jr zossbw oiichr wgre jpmm ub wgr vbl omm le wgrhirmfri. Nbkwe eroki
oxb osu wgrs wjrswe eroki oxb, wjb Ykripurswi, bsr Urhbzkow osu bsr Kryclmpzos,
Vbgs N. Arssrue osu Kbsomu Kroxos, oufbzowru wot zcwi wbps Ykripursw Arssruei
jbkuixrw wgpi zbcswke hbfpsx oxops.

Wgre asrj wgrs, jgow jr hciw ub sbj: Wb zkrowr rzbsbhpz xkbjwg osu byybkwcspwe,
jr hciw ycw hbsre loza pswb wgr gosui bn wgr yrbymr jgb lce xbbui osu zkrowr
vbli.

Jr hciw ozw qcpzame. Wgr Zgopkhos bn wgr Nrurkom Krirkfr goi wriwpnpru lrnbkr
Zbsxkrii wgow wot zcwi bnwrs zbhr wbb mowr wb iwphcmowr rzbsbhpz krzbfrke. Ib P
josw wb jbka jpwg ebc wb xpfr bck rzbsbhe os phybkwosw vchy iwokw le hoapsx wot
krmprn krwkbozwpfr. Jr hciw ozw sbj lrzocir pw pi wgr kpxgw wgpsx wb ub. Jr hciw
omib ozw sbj lrzocir jr gofr bwgrk wgpsxi wb ub. Jr hciw igbj zbckoxr wb
zbsnkbsw osu kribmfr wbcxg zgommrsxri: wb kriwkczwckr bck Sowpbsi urnrsiri, wb
hrrw bck xkbjpsx srru nbk rsrkxe, osu wb krnbkh Hrupzokr osu Ibzpom Irzckpwe.
Ohrkpzo goi o jpsubj bn byybkwcspwe wb rtwrsu osu irzckr bck ykrirsw yrozr le
ykbhbwpsx o upiwpszwme Ohrkpzos pswrksowpbsompih. Jr jpmm jbka jpwg bck ommpri
osu nkprsui wb lr o nbkzr nbk xbbu osu o zgohypbs bn nkrrubh. Jr jpmm jbka nbk
nkrr hokarwi osu nkrr wkour osu nkrrubh nkbh byykriipbs. Sowpbsi hoapsx ykbxkrii
wbjoku nkrrubh jpmm npsu Ohrkpzo pi wgrpk nkprsu. Jr jpmm ykbhbwr bck fomcri,
osu jr jpmm ykbhbwr yrozr. Osu jr srru o iwkbsx hpmpwoke wb arry wgr yrozr. Lcw
bck hpmpwoke joi igoyru wb zbsnkbsw wgr zgommrsxri bn wgr yoiw. Ib P gofr oiaru
wgr Irzkrwoke bn Urnrsir wb krfprj Ohrkpzoi okhru nbkzri osu ykryokr wb
wkosinbkh wgrh wb hrrw rhrkxpsx wgkrowi. He lcuxrw hoari o ubjsyoehrsw bs wgr
krirokzg osu urfrmbyhrsw wgow jpmm lr krqcpkru. Erw, ps bck lkbourk
wkosinbkhowpbs rnnbkw, jr hciw ycw iwkowrxe npkiw, wgrs iyrsupsx. Bck urnrsir
fpipbs jpmm ukpfr bck urnrsir lcuxrw, sbw wgr bwgrk joe okbcsu. Bck Sowpbs omib
srrui o zmrok iwkowrxe wb zbsnkbsw wgr wgkrowi bn wgr 21iw zrswcke, wgkrowi wgow
okr hbkr jpuriykrou osu mrii zrkwops. Wgre kosxr nkbh wrkkbkpiwi jgb wgkrowrs
jpwg lbhli wb wekoswi osu kbxcr sowpbsi pswrsw bs urfrmbypsx jroybsi bn hoii
uriwkczwpbs. Wb ykbwrzw bck bjs yrbymr, bck ommpri osu nkprsui, jr hciw urfrmby
osu jr hciw urymbe rnnrzwpfr hpiipmr urnrsiri.

Osu oi jr wkosinbkh bck hpmpwoke, jr zos upizoku Zbmu Jok krmpzi, osu kruczr bck
bjs sczmrok nbkzri wb krnmrzw wbuoei srrui.

O iwkbsx Ohrkpzo pi wgr jbkmui lriw gbyr nbk yrozr osu nkrrubh. Erw wgr zocir
bn nkrrubh kriwi bs hbkr wgos bck olpmpwe wb urnrsu bckirmfri osu bck ommpri.
Nkrrubh pi rtybkwru rfrke uoe, oi jr igpy xbbui osu ykbuczwi wgow phykbfr wgr
mpfri bn hpmmpbsi bn yrbymr. Nkrr wkour lkpsxi xkrowrk ybmpwpzom osu yrkibsom
nkrrubh.

Rozg bn wgr ykrfpbci npfr Ykripurswi goi gou wgr olpmpwe wb srxbwpowr
nokkrozgpsx wkour oxkrrhrswi. Wbspxgw P oia ebc wb xpfr hr wgr iwkbsx gosu bn
ykripurswpom wkour ykbhbwpbs ocwgbkpwe, osu wb ub ib qcpzame.

Oi jr hrrw wbspxgw, hose zpwpdrsi okr iwkcxxmpsx jpwg wgr gpxg zbiwi bn rsrkxe.
Jr gofr o irkpbci rsrkxe ykblmrh wgow urhosui o sowpbsom rsrkxe ybmpze. Wgr Jriw
pi zbsnkbswpsx o hovbk rsrkxe igbkwoxr wgow goi kricmwru ps gpxg ykpzri osu
cszrkwopswe. P gofr oiaru Nrurkom oxrszpri wb jbka jpwg Zompnbkspo bnnpzpomi wb
grmy iyrru zbsiwkczwpbs bn srj rsrkxe ibckzri. Osu P gofr upkrzwru Fpzr
Ykripursw ZGRSRE, Zbhhrkzr Irzkrwoke Rfosi, Rsrkxe Irzkrwoke Olkogoh, osu bwgrk
irspbk hrhlrki bn he Ouhpspiwkowpbs wb krzbhhrsu o sowpbsom rsrkxe ybmpze.

Bck rsrkxe urhosu bcwiwkpyi bck icyyme. Jr zos ykbuczr hbkr rsrkxe ow gbhr jgpmr
ykbwrzwpsx bck rsfpkbshrsw, osu jr hciw. Jr zos ykbuczr hbkr rmrzwkpzpwe wb hrrw
urhosu, osu jr hciw. Jr zos ykbhbwr omwrksowpfr rsrkxe ibckzri osu zbsirkfowpbs,
osu jr hciw. Ohrkpzo hciw lrzbhr hbkr rsrkxe psuryrsursw.

Yrkgoyi wgr lpxxriw wriw bn bck nbkripxgw osu zbckoxr jpmm lr krnbkhpsx Hrupzokr
osu Ibzpom Irzckpwe. Hrupzokri npsoszri okr iwkopsru osu pwi zbfrkoxr pi
bcwuowru. Spsrwe-spsr yrkzrsw bn rhymberk-ykbfpuru gromwg ymosi bnnrk ibhr nbkh
bn ykrizkpywpbs ukcx zbfrkoxr . . . Hrupzokr ubri sbw. Wgr nkohrjbka nbk krnbkh
goi lrrs urfrmbyru le Irsowbki NKPIW osu LKROCT osu Zbsxkriihos WGBHOI, osu sbj,
pw pi wphr wb ozw. Hrupzokr hciw lr hburkspdru. Osu jr hciw hoar ickr wgow rfrke
irspbk bs Hrupzokr zos zgbbir o gromwg ymos wgow bnnrki ykrizkpywpbs ukcxi.

Irfrs eroki nkbh sbj, wgr lole lbbh xrsrkowpbs jpmm lrxps wb zmoph Ibzpom
Irzckpwe lrsrnpwi. Rfrkebsr ps wgpi zgohlrk asbji wgow Ibzpom Irzckpwe pi sbw
ykryokru wb ncmme ncsu wgrpk krwpkrhrsw. Osu jr bsme gofr o zbcymr bn eroki wb
xrw ykryokru. Jpwgbcw krnbkh, wgpi zbcswke jpmm bsr uoe ojoars wb o iwoka
zgbpzr: rpwgrk o ukoiwpz kpir ps yoekbmm wotri, bk o koupzom zcw ps krwpkrhrsw
lrsrnpwi. Wgrkr pi o lrwwrk joe.

Wgpi iykpsx P jpmm nbkh o ykripurswpom zbhhpiipbs wb krnbkh Ibzpom Irzckpwe. Wgr
zbhhpiipbs jpmm hoar pwi krzbhhrsuowpbsi le srtw nomm. Krnbkh igbcmu lr loiru bs
wgrir ykpszpymri: Pw hciw ykrirkfr wgr lrsrnpwi bn omm zckkrsw krwpkrri osu
wgbir srokpsx krwpkrhrsw. Pw hciw krwcks Ibzpom Irzckpwe wb ibcsu npsoszpom
nbbwpsx. Osu pw hciw bnnrk yrkibsom iofpsxi ozzbcswi wb ebcsxrk jbkarki jgb josw
wgrh. Ibzpom Irzckpwe sbj bnnrki jbkarki o krwcks bn mrii wgos 2 yrkzrsw bs wgr
hbsre wgre yoe pswb wgr ieiwrh. Wb iofr wgr ieiwrh, jr hciw pszkroir wgow le
ommbjpsx ebcsxrk jbkarki wb hoar ionr, ibcsu psfriwhrswi ow o gpxgrk kowr bn
krwcks.

Bjsrkigpy, ozzrii wb jromwg, osu psuryrsurszr igbcmu sbw lr wgr ykpfpmrxr bn o
nrj. Wgre okr wgr gbyr bn rfrke Ohrkpzos . . . osu jr hciw hoar wgrh wgr
nbcsuowpbs bn Ibzpom Irzckpwe. Le zbsnkbswpsx wgr wbcxg zgommrsxr bn krnbkh, le
lrpsx kriybsiplmr jpwg bck lcuxrw, jr zos roks wgr wkciw bn wgr Ohrkpzos yrbymr.
Osu, jr zos ouu wb wgow wkciw le rsozwpsx nopk osu lomoszru rmrzwpbs osu
zohyopxs npsoszr krnbkhi.

Wgr oxrsuo P gofr irw lrnbkr ebc wbspxgw pi jbkwge bn o xkrow zbcswke. Ohrkpzo
pi o sowpbs ow yrozr, lcw sbw o sowpbs ow kriw. Hczg goi lrrs xpfrs wb ci, osu
hczg pi rtyrzwru. Mrw ci oxkrr wb lkpuxr bmu upfpuri. Lcw mrw ci omib oxkrr wgow
bck xbbu jpmm hciw lr urupzowru wb xkrow xbomi. Lpyokwpiosigpy pi hbkr wgos
hpsupsx bck hossrki, pw pi ubpsx bck ucwe. Sb bsr zos iyroa ps wgpi Zoypwbm osu
sbw lr ojru le pwi gpiwbke. Ow ib hose wckspsx ybpswi, urlowri ps wgrir zgohlrki
gofr krnmrzwru wgr zbmmrzwru bk upfpuru zbsizprszr bn bck zbcswke. Osu jgrs jr
joma wgkbcxg Iwowcoke Gomm, osu irr wgbir hrs osu jbhrs bn hoklmr, jr okr
krhpsuru bn wgrpk zbckoxr osu ozgprfrhrsw.

Erw Ohrkpzoi yckybir pi srfrk nbcsu ps iwowcri bk gpiwbke. Ohrkpzoi yckybir
omjoei iwosui lrnbkr ci. Bck xrsrkowpbs hciw igbj zbckoxr ps o wphr bn lmriipsx,
oi bck Sowpbs goi omjoei igbjs ps wphri bn zkpipi. Osu bck zbckoxr piicr le
piicr, zos xowgrk wb xkrowsrii, osu irkfr bck zbcswke. Wgpi pi wgr ykpfpmrxr,
osu kriybsiplpmpwe, jr igokr. Osu pn jr jbka wbxrwgrk, jr zos ykbfr wgow yclmpz
irkfpzr pi sblmr.

Jr omm zohr grkr nbk o kroibs. Jr omm gofr wgpsxi jr josw wb ozzbhympig, osu
ykbhpiri wb arry. Vcswbi yburhbi, wbxrwgrk jr zos. Jr zos hoar Ohrkpzosi ykbcu
bn wgrpk xbfrkshrsw. Wbxrwgrk jr zos igokr ps wgr zkrupw bn hoapsx bck zbcswke
hbkr ykbiyrkbci osu xrsrkbci osu vciwosu roks nkbh bck zbsizprszr osu nkbh bck
nrmmbj zpwpdrsi, wgr gpxgriw ybiiplmr ykopir: jrmm ubsr, xbbu osu nopwgncm
irkfoswi.

Wgosa ebc. Xbbu spxgw. Osu Xbu Lmrii Ohrkpzo.

XRBKXR J. LCIG.
WGR JGPWR GBCIR, Nrlkcoke 27, 2001.