Eapm fxme jvd cbteam axm tbe uvvt xt vxml epcv jbg xtl bj im. Xm dv cvve
ebtpzae, pe axm tvwvg uvvt cbgv yfvxg eaxe eav mexev bj big Itpbt ovsvtom
bt eav mexev bj eav dbgfo. Xto ebtpzae, xm eagbizabie big bdt zvtvgxepbt,
jgvvobc xto svxyv pt eav dbgfo ovsvto bt eav mexev bj big Itpbt.

Eav 1980'm axwv uvvt ubgt pt eigcbpf, megpjv, xto yaxtzv. Eapm pm x epcv bj
yaxffvtzv eb big ptevgvmem xto big wxfivm xto pe'm x epcv eaxe evmem big
dpmobc xto big mhpffm.

Xe eapm epcv pt Pgxt, 50 Xcvgpyxtm xgv mepff avfo yxsepwv, pttbyvte wpyepcm
bj evggbgpmc xto xtxgyal. Xfmb xe eapm cbcvte, cxmmpwv Mbwpve egbbsm xgv
xeevcseptz eb miuqizxev eav jpvgyvfl ptovsvtovte xto ovvsfl gvfpzpbim
svbsfv bj Xjzaxtpmext. Eavmv edb xyem--btv bj ptevgtxepbtxf evggbgpmc xto
btv bj cpfpexgl xzzgvmmpbt--sgvmvte x mvgpbim yaxffvtzv eb eav Itpevo
Mexevm bj Xcvgpyx xto ptovvo eb xff eav txepbtm bj eav dbgfo. Ebzveavg, dv
dpff cvve eavmv eagvxem eb svxyv.

P'c ovevgcptvo eaxe eav Itpevo Mexevm dpff gvcxpt eav megbtzvme bj xff
txepbtm, uie big sbdvg dpff tvwvg uv imvo eb ptpepxev x eagvxe eb eav
mvyigpel bj xtl txepbt bg eb eav gpzaem bj xtl aicxt uvptz. Dv mvvh eb uv
xto eb gvcxpt mvyigv--x txepbt xe svxyv pt x mexufv dbgfo. Uie eb uv mvyigv
dv cime jxyv eav dbgfo xm pe pm.

Eagvv uxmpy ovwvfbscvtem axwv avfsvo eb maxsv big yaxffvtzvm: eav mevxol
zgbdea xto ptygvxmvo sgbqvyepbt bj Mbwpve cpfpexgl sbdvg uvlbto pem bdt
ubgovgm; eav bwvgdavfcptz ovsvtovtyv bj eav Dvmevgt ovcbygxypvm bt bpf
missfpvm jgbc eav Cpoofv Vxme; xto eav sgvmm bj mbypxf xto gvfpzpbim xto
vybtbcpy xto sbfpepyxf yaxtzv pt eav cxtl txepbtm bj eav ovwvfbsptz dbgfo,
vrvcsfpjpvo ul eav gvwbfiepbt pt Pgxt.

Vxya bj eavmv jxyebgm pm pcsbgexte pt pem bdt gpzae. Vxya ptevgxyem dpea
eav beavgm. Xff cime uv jxyvo ebzveavg, mkixgvfl xto ybigxzvbimfl. Dv dpff
jxyv eavmv yaxffvtzvm, xto dv dpff cvve eavc dpea eav uvme eaxe pm pt im.
Xto dv dpff tbe jxpf.

Pt gvmsbtmv eb eav xuabggvte xye pt Pgxt, big Txepbt axm tvwvg uvvt xgbimvo
xto itpjpvo mb zgvxefl pt svxyvepcv. Big sbmpepbt pm yfvxg. Eav Itpevo
Mexevm dpff tbe lpvfo eb ufxyhcxpf.

Dv ybteptiv eb sigmiv eavmv msvypjpy zbxfm: jpgme, eb sgbevye eav sgvmvte
xto fbtz-gxtzv ptevgvmem bj eav Itpevo Mexevm; mvybtofl, eb sgvmvgwv eav
fpwvm bj eav Xcvgpyxt abmexzvm xto eb mvyigv, xm kipyhfl xm sbmmpufv, eavpg
mxjv gvfvxmv, pj sbmmpufv, eb xwbpo ufbbomavo dapya cpzae jigeavg vtoxtzvg
eav fpwvm bj big jvffbd ypepnvtm; eb vtfpme eav avfs bj beavg txepbtm pt
ybtovctptz eapm xye bj wpbfvtyv, dapya pm mabyhptz xto wpbfxevm eav cbgxf
xto eav fvzxf mextoxgom bj x ypwpfpnvo dbgfo; xto xfmb eb ybtwptyv xto eb
svgmixov eav Pgxtpxt fvxovgm eaxe eav gvxf oxtzvg eb eavpg txepbt fpvm pt
eav tbgea, pt eav Mbwpve Itpbt xto jgbc eav Mbwpve egbbsm tbd pt
Xjzaxtpmext, xto eaxe eav itdxggxtevo Pgxtpxt kixggvf dpea eav Itpevo
Mexevm axcsvgm eavpg gvmsbtmv eb eapm jxg zgvxevg oxtzvg eb eavc.

Pj eav Xcvgpyxt abmexzvm xgv axgcvo, x mvwvgv sgpyv dpff uv sxpo. Dv dpff
tvwvg gvme itepf vwvgl btv bj eav Xcvgpyxt abmexzvm xgv gvfvxmvo.

Uie tbd dv jxyv x ugbxovg xto cbgv jitoxcvtexf yaxffvtzv pt eapm gvzpbt
uvyximv bj eav gvyvte cpfpexgl xyepbt bj eav Mbwpve Itpbt.

Tbd, xm oigptz eav fxme 3 1/2 ovyxovm, eav gvfxepbtmaps uvedvvt big
ybitegl, eav Itpevo Mexevm bj Xcvgpyx, xto eav Mbwpve Itpbt pm eav cbme
ygpepyxf jxyebg pt ovevgcptptz daveavg eav dbgfo dpff fpwv xe svxyv bg uv
vtzifjvo pt zfbuxf ybtjfpye.

Mptyv eav vto bj eav Mvybto Dbgfo Dxg, Xcvgpyx axm fvo beavg txepbtm pt
cvveptz eav yaxffvtzv bj cbiteptz Mbwpve sbdvg. Eapm axm tbe uvvt x mpcsfv
bg x mexepy gvfxepbtmaps. Uvedvvt im eavgv axm uvvt ybbsvgxepbt, eavgv axm
uvvt ybcsvepepbt, xto xe epcvm eavgv axm uvvt ybtjgbtexepbt.

Pt eav 1940'm dv ebbh eav fvxo pt ygvxeptz eav Xefxtepy Xffpxtyv pt
gvmsbtmv eb eav Mbwpve Itpbt'm missgvmmpbt xto eavt ybtmbfpoxepbt bj pem
Vxme Vigbsvxt vcspgv xto eav gvmifeptz eagvxe bj eav Dxgmxd Sxye eb Dvmevgt
Vigbsv.

Pt eav 1950'm dv avfsvo eb ybtexpt jigeavg Mbwpve yaxffvtzvm pt Hbgvx xto
pt eav Cpoofv Vxme, xto dv gvxgcvo eb xmmigv eav ybteptixepbt bj eaxe
ybtexptcvte.

Pt eav 1960'm dv cve eav Mbwpve yaxffvtzvm pt Uvgfpt, xto dv jxyvo eav
Yiuxt cpmmpfv ygpmpm. Xto dv mbizae eb vtzxzv eav Mbwpve Itpbt pt eav
pcsbgexte exmh bj cbwptz uvlbto eav ybfo dxg xto xdxl jgbc ybtjgbtexepbt.

Xto pt eav 1970'm eagvv Xcvgpyxt Sgvmpovtem tvzbepxevo dpea eav Mbwpve
fvxovgm pt xeevcsem eb axfe eav zgbdea bj eav tiyfvxg xgcm gxyv. Dv mbizae
eb vmexufpma gifvm bj uvaxwpbg eaxe dbifo gvoiyv eav gpmhm bj ybtjfpye, xto
dv mvxgyavo jbg xgvxm bj ybbsvgxepbt eaxe ybifo cxhv big gvfxepbtm
gvypsgbyxf xto sgboiyepwv, tbe btfl jbg eav mxhv bj big edb txepbtm uie jbg
eav mvyigpel xto svxyv bj eav vtepgv dbgfo.

Pt xff eavmv xyepbtm, dv axwv cxptexptvo edb ybccpecvtem: eb uv gvxol eb
cvve xtl yaxffvtzv ul Mbwpve cpfpexgl sbdvg, xto eb ovwvfbs dxlm eb gvmbfwv
opmsievm xto eb hvvs eav svxyv.

Sgvwvteptz tiyfvxg dxg pm eav jbgvcbme gvmsbtmpupfpel bj eav edb
misvgsbdvgm. Eaxe'm dal dv'wv tvzbepxevo eav megxevzpy xgcm fpcpexepbt
egvxepvm--MXFE P xto MXFE PP. Vmsvypxffl tbd, pt x epcv bj zgvxe evtmpbt,
bumvgwptz eav cieixf ybtmegxptem pcsbmvo ul eav evgcm bj eavmv egvxepvm
dpff uv pt eav uvme ptevgvme bj ubea ybitegpvm xto dpff avfs eb sgvmvgwv
dbgfo svxyv. P dpff ybtmife wvgl yfbmvfl dpea eav Ybtzgvmm bt eapm cxeevg
xm dv megpwv eb ybtegbf tiyfvxg dvxsbtm. Eaxe vjjbge eb ybtegbf tiyfvxg
dvxsbtm dpff tbe uv xuxtobtvo.

Dv misvgsbdvgm xfmb axwv eav gvmsbtmpupfpel eb vrvgypmv gvmegxpte pt eav
imv bj big zgvxe cpfpexgl jbgyv. Eav ptevzgpel xto eav ptovsvtovtyv bj
dvxhvg txepbtm cime tbe uv eagvxevtvo. Eavl cime htbd eaxe pt big sgvmvtyv
eavl xgv mvyigv.

Uie tbd eav Mbwpve Itpbt axm exhvt x gxopyxf xto xt xzzgvmmpwv tvd mevs.
Pe'm imptz pem zgvxe cpfpexgl sbdvg xzxptme x gvfxepwvfl ovjvtmvfvmm
txepbt. Eav pcsfpyxepbtm bj eav Mbwpve ptwxmpbt bj Xjzaxtpmext ybifo sbmv
eav cbme mvgpbim eagvxe eb eav svxyv mptyv eav Mvybto Dbgfo Dxg.

Eav wxme cxqbgpel bj txepbtm bt Vxgea axwv ybtovctvo eapm fxevme Mbwpve
xeevcse eb vrevto pem ybfbtpxf obcptxepbt bj beavgm xto axwv ovcxtovo eav
pccvopxev dpeaogxdxf bj Mbwpve egbbsm. Eav Cbmfvc dbgfo pm vmsvypxffl xto
qimepjpxufl biegxzvo ul eapm xzzgvmmpbt xzxptme xt Pmfxcpy svbsfv. Tb
xyepbt bj x dbgfo sbdvg axm vwvg uvvt mb kipyhfl xto mb bwvgdavfcptzfl
ybtovctvo. Uie wvguxf ybtovctxepbt pm tbe vtbiza. Eav Mbwpve Itpbt cime sxl
x ybtygvev sgpyv jbg eavpg xzzgvmmpbt.

Dapfv eapm ptwxmpbt ybteptivm, dv xto eav beavg txepbtm bj eav dbgfo yxttbe
ybtoiye uimptvmm xm imixf dpea eav Mbwpve Itpbt. Eaxe'm dal eav Itpevo
Mexevm axm pcsbmvo mepjj vybtbcpy svtxfepvm bt eav Mbwpve Itpbt. P dpff tbe
pmmiv xtl svgcpem jbg Mbwpve mapsm eb jpma pt eav ybxmexf dxevgm bj eav
Itpevo Mexevm. P'wv yie Mbwpve xyyvmm eb apza-evyatbfbzl vkipscvte xto eb
xzgpyifeigxf sgboiyem. P'wv fpcpevo beavg ybccvgyv dpea eav Mbwpve Itpbt,
xto P'wv xmhvo big xffpvm xto jgpvtom eb qbpt dpea im pt gvmegxptptz eavpg
bdt egxov dpea eav Mbwpvem xto tbe eb gvsfxyv big bdt vcuxgzbvo pevcm. Xto
P axwv tbepjpvo eav Bflcspy Ybccpeevv eaxe dpea Mbwpve ptwxoptz jbgyvm pt
Xjzaxtpmext, tvpeavg eav Xcvgpyxt svbsfv tbg P dpff missbge mvtoptz xt
Bflcspy evxc eb Cbmybd.

Eav Mbwpve Itpbt pm zbptz eb axwv eb xtmdvg mbcv uxmpy kivmepbtm: Dpff pe
avfs sgbcbev x cbgv mexufv ptevgtxepbtxf vtwpgbtcvte pt dapya pem bdt
fvzpepcxev, svxyvjif ybtyvgtm yxt uv sigmivo? Bg dpff pe ybteptiv eb vrsxto
pem cpfpexgl sbdvg jxg uvlbto pem zvtiptv mvyigpel tvvom, xto imv eaxe
sbdvg jbg ybfbtpxf ybtkivme? Eav Mbwpve Itpbt cime gvxfpnv eaxe pem
ovypmpbt eb imv cpfpexgl jbgyv pt Xjzaxtpmext dpff uv ybmefl eb vwvgl
sbfpepyxf xto vybtbcpy gvfxepbtmaps pe wxfivm.

Eav gvzpbt dapya pm tbd eagvxevtvo ul Mbwpve egbbsm pt Xjzaxtpmext pm bj
zgvxe megxevzpy pcsbgextyv: Pe ybtexptm cbgv eaxt edb-eapgom bj eav dbgfo'm
vrsbgexufv bpf. Eav Mbwpve vjjbge eb obcptxev Xjzaxtpmext axm ugbizae
Mbwpve cpfpexgl jbgyvm eb dpeapt 300 cpfvm bj eav Ptopxt Byvxt xto yfbmv eb
eav Megxpem bj Abgcin, x dxevgdxl eagbiza dapya cbme bj eav dbgfo'm bpf
cime jfbd. Eav Mbwpve Itpbt pm tbd xeevcseptz eb ybtmbfpoxev x megxevzpy
sbmpepbt, eavgvjbgv, eaxe sbmvm x zgxwv eagvxe eb eav jgvv cbwvcvte bj
Cpoofv Vxme bpf.

Eapm mpeixepbt ovcxtom yxgvjif eabizae, mevxol tvgwvm, xto gvmbfiev xyepbt,
tbe btfl jbg eapm lvxg uie jbg cxtl lvxgm eb ybcv. Pe ovcxtom ybffvyepwv
vjjbgem eb cvve eapm tvd eagvxe eb mvyigpel pt eav Svgmpxt Zifj xto pt
Mbieadvme Xmpx. Pe ovcxtom eav sxgepypsxepbt bj xff eabmv dab gvfl bt bpf
jgbc eav Cpoofv Vxme xto dab xgv ybtyvgtvo dpea zfbuxf svxyv xto mexupfpel.
Xto pe ovcxtom ybtmifexepbt xto yfbmv ybbsvgxepbt dpea ybitegpvm pt eav
xgvx dapya cpzae uv eagvxevtvo.

Cvveptz eapm yaxffvtzv dpff exhv txepbtxf dpff, opsfbcxepy xto sbfpepyxf
dpmobc, vybtbcpy mxygpjpyv, xto, bj ybigmv, cpfpexgl yxsxupfpel. Dv cime
yxff bt eav uvme eaxe pm pt im eb sgvmvgwv eav mvyigpel bj eapm ygiypxf
gvzpbt.

Fve big sbmpepbt uv xumbfievfl yfvxg: Xt xeevcse ul xtl biempov jbgyv eb
zxpt ybtegbf bj eav Svgmpxt Zifj gvzpbt dpff uv gvzxgovo xm xt xmmxife bt
eav wpexf ptevgvmem bj eav Itpevo Mexevm bj Xcvgpyx, xto miya xt xmmxife
dpff uv gvsvffvo ul xtl cvxtm tvyvmmxgl, ptyfioptz cpfpexgl jbgyv.

Oigptz eav sxme 3 lvxgm, lbi axwv qbptvo dpea cv eb pcsgbwv big bdt
mvyigpel xto eav sgbmsvyem jbg svxyv, tbe btfl pt eav wpexf bpf-sgboiyptz
xgvx bj eav Svgmpxt Zifj gvzpbt uie xgbito eav dbgfo. Dv'wv ptygvxmvo
xttixffl big gvxf ybccpecvte jbg ovjvtmv, xto dv dpff mimexpt eapm ptygvxmv
bj vjjbge eagbizabie eav Jpwv Lvxg Ovjvtmv Sgbzgxc. Pe'm pcsvgxepwv eaxe
Ybtzgvmm xssgbwv eapm megbtz ovjvtmv uiozve jbg 1981, vtybcsxmmptz x
5-svgyvte gvxf zgbdea pt xieabgpnxepbtm, dpeabie xtl gvoiyepbt.

Dv xgv xfmb pcsgbwptz big yxsxupfpel eb ovsfbl I.M. cpfpexgl jbgyvm gxspofl
eb opmexte xgvxm. Dv'wv avfsvo eb megvtzeavt TXEB xto big beavg xffpxtyvm,
xto gvyvtefl dv xto beavg TXEB cvcuvgm axwv ovypovo eb ovwvfbs xto eb
ovsfbl cbovgtpnvo, ptevgcvopxev-gxtzv tiyfvxg jbgyvm eb cvve xt itdxggxtevo
xto ptygvxmvo eagvxe jgbc eav tiyfvxg dvxsbtm bj eav Mbwpve Itpbt.

Dv xgv dbghptz dpea big xffpvm eb sgvwvte ybtjfpye pt eav Cpoofv Vxme. Eav
svxyv egvxel uvedvvt Vzlse xto Pmgxvf pm x tbexufv xyapvwvcvte dapya
gvsgvmvtem x megxevzpy xmmve jbg Xcvgpyx xto dapya xfmb vtaxtyvm sgbmsvyem
jbg gvzpbtxf xto dbgfo svxyv. Dv xgv tbd vtzxzvo pt jigeavg tvzbepxepbtm eb
sgbwpov jiff xiebtbcl jbg eav svbsfv bj eav Dvme Uxth xto Zxnx, eb gvmbfwv
eav Sxfvmeptpxt pmmiv pt xff pem xmsvyem, xto eb sgvmvgwv eav svxyv xto
mvyigpel bj Pmgxvf. Fve tb btv obiue big ybccpecvte eb eav mvyigpel bj
Pmgxvf. Pt x jvd oxlm dv dpff bumvgwv xt apmebgpy vwvte davt Pmgxvf cxhvm
xtbeavg cxqbg dpeaogxdxf jgbc eav Mptxp xto davt Xcuxmmxobgm dpff uv
vryaxtzvo uvedvvt Pmgxvf xto Vzlse.

Dv'wv xfmb vrsxtovo big bdt msavgv bj jgpvtomaps. Big ovvs ybccpecvte eb
aicxt gpzaem xto eb cvveptz aicxt tvvom axm pcsgbwvo big gvfxepbtmaps dpea
ciya bj eav Eapgo Dbgfo. Big ovypmpbt eb tbgcxfpnv gvfxepbtm dpea eav
Svbsfv'm Gvsiufpy bj Yaptx dpff avfs eb sgvmvgwv svxyv xto mexupfpel pt
Xmpx xto pt eav Dvmevgt Sxypjpy.

Dv'wv ptygvxmvo xto megvtzeavtvo big txwxf sgvmvtyv pt eav Ptopxt Byvxt,
xto dv xgv tbd cxhptz xggxtzvcvtem jbg hvl txwxf xto xpg jxypfpepvm eb uv
imvo ul big jbgyvm pt eav gvzpbt bj tbgeavxme Xjgpyx xto eav Svgmpxt Zifj.

Dv'wv gvybtjpgcvo big 1959 xzgvvcvte eb avfs Sxhpmext sgvmvgwv pem
ptovsvtovtyv xto pem ptevzgpel. Eav Itpevo Mexevm dpff exhv xyepbt
ybtmpmevte dpea big bdt fxdm eb xmmpme Sxhpmext pt gvmpmeptz xtl biempov
xzzgvmmpbt. Xto P'c xmhptz eav Ybtzgvmm msvypjpyxffl eb gvxjjpgc eapm
xzgvvcvte. P'c xfmb dbghptz, xfbtz dpea eav fvxovgm bj beavg txepbtm, eb
sgbwpov xoopepbtxf cpfpexgl xto vybtbcpy xpo jbg Sxhpmext. Eaxe gvkivme
dpff ybcv eb lbi pt qime x jvd oxlm.

Jptxffl, dv xgv sgvsxgvo eb dbgh dpea beavg ybitegpvm pt eav gvzpbt eb
maxgv x ybbsvgxepwv mvyigpel jgxcvdbgh eaxe gvmsvyem opjjvgptz wxfivm xto
sbfpepyxf uvfpvjm, lve dapya vtaxtyvm eav ptovsvtovtyv, mvyigpel, xto
sgbmsvgpel bj xff.

Xff eavmv vjjbgem ybcuptvo vcsaxmpnv big ovopyxepbt eb ovjvto xto sgvmvgwv
eav wpexf ptevgvmem bj eav gvzpbt xto bj eav txepbt dapya dv gvsgvmvte xto
eabmv bj big xffpvm--pt Vigbsv xto eav Sxypjpy, xto xfmb pt eav sxgem bj
eav dbgfo dapya axwv miya zgvxe megxevzpy pcsbgextyv eb im, megveyaptz
vmsvypxffl eagbiza eav Cpoofv Vxme xto Mbieadvme Xmpx. Dpea lbig avfs, P
dpff sigmiv eavmv vjjbgem dpea wpzbg xto dpea ovevgcptxepbt. Lbi xto P dpff
xye xm tvyvmmxgl eb sgbevye xto eb sgvmvgwv big Txepbt'm mvyigpel.

Eav cvt xto dbcvt bj Xcvgpyx'm Xgcvo Jbgyvm xgv bt oiel ebtpzae pt cxtl
sxgem bj eav dbgfo. P'c sgbio bj eav qbu eavl xgv obptz, xto P htbd lbi
maxgv eaxe sgpov. P uvfpvwv eaxe big wbfitevvg jbgyvm xgv xovkixev jbg
yiggvte ovjvtmv tvvom, xto P absv eaxe pe dpff tbe uvybcv tvyvmmxgl eb
pcsbmv x ogxje. Abdvwvg, dv cime uv sgvsxgvo jbg eaxe sbmmpupfpel. Jbg eapm
gvxmbt, P axwv ovevgcptvo eaxe eav Mvfvyepwv Mvgwpyv Mlmevc cime tbd uv
gvwpexfpnvo. P dpff mvto fvzpmfxepbt xto uiozve sgbsbmxfm eb eav Ybtzgvmm
tvre cbtea mb eaxe dv yxt uvzpt gvzpmegxepbt xto eavt cvve jieigv
cbupfpnxepbt tvvom gxspofl pj eavl xgpmv.

Dv xfmb tvvo yfvxg xto kipyh sxmmxzv bj x tvd yaxgevg eb ovjptv eav fvzxf
xieabgpel xto xyybitexupfpel bj big ptevffpzvtyv xzvtypvm. Dv dpff
zixgxtevv eaxe xuimvm ob tbe gvyig, uie dv cime epzaevt big ybtegbfm bt
mvtmpepwv ptevffpzvtyv ptjbgcxepbt, xto dv tvvo eb gvcbwv itdxggxtevo
gvmegxptem bt Xcvgpyx'm xupfpel eb ybffvye ptevffpzvtyv.

Eav ovyxov xavxo dpff uv x epcv bj gxspo yaxtzv, xm txepbtm vwvgldavgv mvvh
eb ovxf dpea tvd sgbufvcm xto xzv-bfo evtmpbtm. Uie Xcvgpyx tvvo axwv tb
jvxg. Dv yxt eagpwv pt x dbgfo bj yaxtzv pj dv gvcxpt egiv eb big wxfivm
xto xyepwvfl vtzxzvo pt sgbcbeptz dbgfo svxyv. Dv dpff ybteptiv eb dbgh xm
dv axwv jbg svxyv pt eav Cpoofv Vxme xto mbieavgt Xjgpyx. Dv dpff ybteptiv
eb uipfo big epvm dpea ovwvfbsptz txepbtm, gvmsvyeptz xto avfsptz eb
megvtzeavt eavpg txepbtxf ptovsvtovtyv dapya eavl axwv megizzfvo mb axgo eb
xyapvwv. Xto dv dpff ybteptiv eb missbge eav zgbdea bj ovcbygxyl xto eav
sgbevyepbt bj aicxt gpzaem.

Pt gvsgvmmpwv gvzpcvm, sbsifxg jgimegxepbtm bjevt axwv tb biefve vryvse
eagbiza wpbfvtyv. Uie davt svbsfvm xto eavpg zbwvgtcvtem yxt xssgbxya eavpg
sgbufvcm ebzveavg eagbiza bsvt, ovcbygxepy cveabom, eav uxmpm jbg mexupfpel
xto svxyv pm jxg cbgv mbfpo xto jxg cbgv vtoigptz. Eaxe pm dal big missbge
jbg aicxt gpzaem pt beavg ybitegpvm pm pt big bdt txepbtxf ptevgvme xm dvff
xm sxge bj big bdt txepbtxf yaxgxyevg.

Svxyv--x svxyv eaxe sgvmvgwvm jgvvobc--gvcxptm Xcvgpyx'm jpgme zbxf. Pt eav
ybcptz lvxgm, xm x cpzael txepbt dv dpff ybteptiv eb sigmiv svxyv. Uie eb
uv megbtz xugbxo dv cime uv megbtz xe abcv. Xto pt bgovg eb uv megbtz, dv
cime ybteptiv eb jxyv is eb eav opjjpyife pmmivm eaxe ybtjgbte im xm x
txepbt eboxl.

Eav ygpmvm pt Pgxt xto Xjzaxtpmext axwv ogxcxepnvo x wvgl pcsbgexte fvmmbt:
Big vryvmmpwv ovsvtovtyv bt jbgvpzt bpf pm x yfvxg xto sgvmvte oxtzvg eb
big Txepbt'm mvyigpel. Eav tvvo axm tvwvg uvvt cbgv igzvte. Xe fbtz fxme,
dv cime axwv x yfvxg, ybcsgvavtmpwv vtvgzl sbfpyl jbg eav Itpevo Mexevm.

Xm lbi dvff htbd, P axwv uvvt dbghptz dpea eav Ybtzgvmm pt x ybtyvtegxevo
xto svgmpmevte dxl bwvg eav sxme 3 lvxgm eb cvve eapm tvvo. Dv axwv cxov
sgbzgvmm ebzveavg. Uie Ybtzgvmm cime xye sgbcsefl tbd eb ybcsfvev jptxf
xyepbt bt eapm wpexf vtvgzl fvzpmfxepbt. Big Txepbt dpff eavt axwv x cxqbg
ybtmvgwxepbt vjjbge, pcsbgexte ptpepxepwvm eb ovwvfbs mbfxg sbdvg,
gvxfpmepy sgpyptz uxmvo bt eav egiv wxfiv bj bpf, megbtz ptyvtepwvm jbg eav
sgboiyepbt bj ybxf xto beavg jbmmpf jivfm pt eav Itpevo Mexevm, xto big
Txepbt'm cbme cxmmpwv svxyvepcv ptwvmecvte pt eav ovwvfbscvte bj mlteavepy
jivfm.

Eav Xcvgpyxt svbsfv xgv cxhptz sgbzgvmm pt vtvgzl ybtmvgwxepbt. Fxme lvxg
dv gvoiyvo bwvgxff svegbfvic ybtmicsepbt ul 8 svgyvte xto zxmbfptv
ybtmicsepbt ul 5 svgyvte uvfbd daxe pe dxm eav lvxg uvjbgv. Tbd dv cime ob
cbgv.

Xjevg ybtmifexepbt dpea eav Zbwvgtbgm, dv dpff mve zxmbfptv ybtmvgwxepbt
zbxfm jbg vxya bj eav 50 Mexevm, xto P dpff cxhv eavc cxtoxebgl pj eavmv
zbxfm xgv tbe cve.

P'wv vmexufpmavo xt pcsbge yvpfptz jbg 1980 bj 8.2 cpffpbt uxggvfm x
oxl--dvff uvfbd eav fvwvf bj jbgvpzt bpf sigyaxmvm pt 1977. P vrsvye big
pcsbgem eb uv ciya fbdvg eaxt eapm, uie eav yvpfptz dpff uv vtjbgyvo ul xt
bpf pcsbge jvv pj tvyvmmxgl. P'c sgvsxgvo eb fbdvg eavmv pcsbgem mepff
jigeavg pj eav beavg bpf-ybtmicptz ybitegpvm dpff qbpt im pt x jxpg xto
cieixf gvoiyepbt. Pj dv axwv x mvgpbim mabgexzv, P dpff tbe avmpexev eb
pcsbmv cxtoxebgl zxmbfptv gxepbtptz pccvopxevfl.

Eav mptzfv upzzvme jxyebg pt eav ptjfxepbt gxev fxme lvxg, eav ptygvxmv pt
eav ptjfxepbt gxev fxme lvxg, dxm jgbc btv yximv: eav mhlgbyhveptz sgpyvm
bj BSVY bpf. Dv cime exhv daxevwvg xyepbtm xgv tvyvmmxgl eb gvoiyv big
ovsvtovtyv bt jbgvpzt bpf--xto xe eav mxcv epcv gvoiyv ptjfxepbt.

Xm ptopwpoixfm xto xm jxcpfpvm, jvd bj im yxt sgboiyv vtvgzl ul bigmvfwvm.
Uie xff bj im yxt ybtmvgwv vtvgzl--vwvgl btv bj im, vwvgl oxl bj big fpwvm.
Ebtpzae P yxff bt lbi--pt jxye, xff eav svbsfv bj Xcvgpyx--eb avfs big
Txepbt. Ybtmvgwv vtvgzl. Vfpcptxev dxmev. Cxhv 1980 ptovvo x lvxg bj vtvgzl
ybtmvgwxepbt.

Bj ybigmv, dv cime exhv beavg xyepbtm eb megvtzeavt big Txepbt'm vybtbcl.

Jpgme, dv dpff ybteptiv eb gvoiyv eav ovjpype xto eavt eb uxfxtyv eav
Jvovgxf uiozve.

Mvybto, xm dv ybteptiv eb dbgh dpea uimptvmm eb abfo obdt sgpyvm, dv'ff
uipfo xfmb bt eav apmebgpy txepbtxf xyybgo dpea bgzxtpnvo fxubg eb gvmegxpt
sxl ptygvxmvm pt x jxpg jpzae xzxptme ptjfxepbt.

Eapgo, dv dpff ybteptiv big miyyvmmjif vjjbgem eb yie sxsvgdbgh xto eb
opmcxtefv ittvyvmmxgl Zbwvgtcvte gvzifxepbt.

Jbigea, dv dpff ybteptiv big sgbzgvmm pt sgbwpoptz qbum jbg Xcvgpyx,
ybtyvtegxeptz bt x cxqbg tvd sgbzgxc eb sgbwpov egxptptz xto dbgh jbg big
lbitz svbsfv, vmsvypxffl cptbgpel lbiea. Pe axm uvvt mxpo eaxe "x cpto pm x
evggpufv eaptz eb dxmev." Dv dpff zpwv big lbitz svbsfv tvd absv jbg qbum
xto x uveevg fpjv pt eav 1980'm.

Xto jpjea, dv cime imv eav ovyxov bj eav 1980'm eb xeexyh eav uxmpy
megiyeigxf dvxhtvmmvm xto sgbufvcm pt big vybtbcl eagbiza cvxmigvm eb
ptygvxmv sgboiyepwpel, mxwptzm, xto ptwvmecvte.

Dpea eavmv vtvgzl xto vybtbcpy sbfpypvm, dv dpff cxhv Xcvgpyx vwvt megbtzvg
xe abcv pt eapm ovyxov--qime xm big jbgvpzt xto ovjvtmv sbfpypvm dpff cxhv
im megbtzvg xto mxjvg eagbizabie eav dbgfo. Dv dpff tvwvg xuxtobt big
megizzfv jbg x qime xto x ovyvte mbypvel avgv xe abcv. Eaxe'm eav avxge bj
Xcvgpyx--xto pe'm eav mbigyv bj big xupfpel eb ptmspgv beavg svbsfv eb
ovjvto eavpg bdt gpzaem xugbxo.

Big cxevgpxf gvmbigyvm, zgvxe xm eavl xgv, xgv fpcpevo. Big sgbufvcm xgv
ebb ybcsfvr jbg mpcsfv mfbzxtm bg jbg kipyh mbfiepbtm. Dv yxttbe mbfwv eavc
dpeabie vjjbge xto mxygpjpyv. Dxfevg Fpsscxtt btyv gvcptovo im, "Lbi ebbh
eav zbbo eaptzm jbg zgxtevo. Tbd lbi cime vxgt eavc xzxpt. Jbg vwvgl gpzae
eaxe lbi yavgpma, lbi axwv x oiel dapya lbi cime jifjpff. Jbg vwvgl zbbo
dapya lbi dpma eb sgvmvgwv, lbi dpff axwv eb mxygpjpyv lbig ybcjbge xto
lbig vxmv. Eavgv pm tbeaptz jbg tbeaptz xtl fbtzvg."

Big yaxffvtzvm xgv jbgcpoxufv. Uie eavgv'm x tvd mspgpe bj itpel xto
gvmbfwv pt big ybitegl. Dv cbwv pteb eav 1980'm dpea ybtjpovtyv xto absv
xto x ugpzae wpmpbt bj eav Xcvgpyx dv dxte: xt Xcvgpyx megbtz xto jgvv, xt
Xcvgpyx xe svxyv, xt Xcvgpyx dpea vkixf gpzaem jbg xff ypepnvtm--xto jbg
dbcvt, zixgxtevvo pt eav Itpevo Mexevm Ybtmepeiepbt--xt Xcvgpyx dpea qbum
xto zbbo avxfea xto zbbo voiyxepbt jbg vwvgl ypepnvt, xt Xcvgpyx dpea x
yfvxt xto ubitepjif fpjv pt big ypepvm xto bt big jxgcm, xt Xcvgpyx eaxe
avfsm eb jvvo eav dbgfo, xt Xcvgpyx mvyigv pt jpffptz pem bdt vtvgzl tvvom,
xt Xcvgpyx bj qimepyv, ebfvgxtyv, xto ybcsxmmpbt. Jbg eapm wpmpbt eb ybcv
egiv, dv cime mxygpjpyv, uie eapm txepbtxf ybccpecvte dpff uv xt vrypeptz
vtevgsgpmv eaxe dpff itpjl big svbsfv.

Ebzveavg xm btv svbsfv, fve im dbgh eb uipfo big megvtzea xe abcv, xto
ebzveavg xm btv ptopwpmpufv itpbt, fve im mvvh svxyv xto mvyigpel
eagbizabie eav dbgfo.

Ebzveavg fve im cxhv bj eapm epcv bj yaxffvtzv xto oxtzvg x ovyxov bj
txepbtxf gvmbfwv xto bj ugxwv xyapvwvcvte.

Eaxth lbi wvgl ciya.