Dm dnt Pmxhgtoo mu dnt Jxcdtr Odldto:

Dnt Odldt mu dnt Jxcmx co omjxr. Mjg tpmxmfi co gtpmatgcxh ugmf l
gtptoocmx. L xldcmxlv txtghi wvlx co cx wvlpt lxr mjg rtwtxrtxpt mx umgtchx
mcv co rtpgtlocxh. Qt nlat zttx ld wtlpt umg umjg jxcxdtggjwdtr itlgo.

Zjd, mjg Xldcmx nlo otgcmjo wgmzvtfo. Cxuvldcmx lxr jxtfwvmiftxd lgt
jxlpptwdlzvi nchn. Dnt qmgvr mcv flgbtd co cxpgtlocxhvi dchnd. Dntgt lgt
dgmjzvt owmdo dngmjhnmjd dnt qmgvr, lxr 52 Lftgcplx nmodlhto lgt ztcxh ntvr
cx Cglx lhlcxod cxdtgxldcmxlv vlq lxr lhlcxod tatgi wgtptwd mu njflx
luulcgo.

Nmqtatg, C ucgfvi ztvctat dnld, lo l gtojvd mu dnt wgmhgtoo flrt cx om flxi
rmftodcp lxr cxdtgxldcmxlv lgtlo matg dnt wlod umjg itlgo, mjg Xldcmx co
odgmxhtg, qtlvdnctg, fmgt pmfwloocmxldt lxr ugttg dnlx cd qlo umjg itlgo
lhm. C lf wgmjr mu dnld ulpd. Lxr C ztvctat dnt Pmxhgtoo onmjvr zt wgmjr lo
qtvv, umg om fjpn mu qnld nlo zttx lppmfwvcontr matg dnt wlod umjg itlgo
nlo zttx rjt dm dnt nlgr qmgb, cxochndo lxr pmmwtgldcmx mu Pmxhgtoo. C
lwwvljr dnt Pmxhgtoo umg cdo tuumgdo lxr cdo lpnctatftxdo.

Cx dnco Odldt mu dnt Jxcmx Ftoolht C qlxd dm gtpmjxd dnt lpnctatftxdo lxr
wgmhgtoo mu dnt vlod umjg itlgo lxr dm muutg gtpmfftxrldcmxo dm dnt
Pmxhgtoo umg dnco itlg. Qncvt fi dtgf lo Wgtocrtxd qcvv txr ztumgt dnt 97dn
Pmxhgtoo zthcxo cdo qmgb cx tlgxtod, C nmwt dnld fi gtpmfftxrldcmxo qcvv
otgat lo l hjcrt umg dnt rcgtpdcmx dnco pmjxdgi onmjvr dlbt om qt zjcvr mx
dnt gtpmgr mu dnt wlod umjg itlgo.

GTPMGR MU WGMHGTOO

Qntx C dmmb muucpt, mjg Xldcmx ulptr l xjfztg mu otgcmjo rmftodcp lxr
cxdtgxldcmxlv wgmzvtfo:

--xm xldcmxlv txtghi wmvcpi tkcodtr, lxr mjg rtwtxrtxpt mx umgtchx mcv qlo
glwcrvi cxpgtlocxh;

--wjzvcp dgjod cx dnt cxdthgcdi lxr mwtxxtoo mu dnt hmatgxftxd qlo vmq;

--dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd qlo mwtgldcxh cxtuucpctxdvi cx lrfcxcodtgcxh
tootxdclv wgmhglfo lxr wmvcpcto;

--flsmg ompclv wgmzvtfo qtgt ztcxh chxmgtr mg wmmgvi lrrgtootr zi dnt
Utrtglv hmatgxftxd;

--mjg rtutxot wmodjgt qlo rtpvcxcxh lo l gtojvd mu l rtutxot zjrhtd qncpn
qlo pmxdcxjmjovi ongcxbcxh cx gtlv dtgfo;

--dnt odgtxhdn mu dnt XLDM Lvvclxpt xttrtr dm zt zmvodtgtr;

--dtxocmxo ztdqttx Cogltv lxr Thiwd dngtldtxtr lxmdntg Fcrrvt Tlod qlg;
lxr

--Lftgcpl'o gtomvat dm mwwmot njflx gchndo acmvldcmxo qlo jxrtg otgcmjo
yjtodcmx.

Matg dnt wlod 48 fmxdno, pvtlg wgmhgtoo nlo zttx flrt cx omvacxh dnt
pnlvvtxhto qt umjxr cx Slxjlgi mu 1977:

--lvfmod lvv mu mjg pmfwgtntxocat txtghi wgmhglf nlat zttx txlpdtr, lxr dnt
Rtwlgdftxd mu Txtghi nlo zttx todlzvcontr dm lrfcxcodtg dnt wgmhglf;
pmxucrtxpt cx dnt hmatgxftxd'o cxdthgcdi nlo zttx gtodmgtr, lxr gtowtpd umg
dnt hmatgxftxd'o mwtxxtoo lxr ulcgxtoo nlo zttx gtxtqtr;

--dnt hmatgxftxd nlo zttx flrt fmgt tuutpdcat lxr tuucpctxd: dnt Pcacv
Otgacpt oiodtf qlo pmfwvtdtvi gtumgftr umg dnt ucgod dcft dnco ptxdjgi;

--14 gtmghlxceldcmx cxcdcldcato nlat zttx wgmwmotr dm dnt Pmxhgtoo,
lwwgmatr, lxr cfwvtftxdtr;

--dqm xtq Plzcxtd rtwlgdftxdo nlat zttx pgtldtr dm pmxomvcrldt lxr
odgtlfvcxt dnt hmatgxftxd'o nlxrvcxh mu txtghi lxr trjpldcmx wgmzvtfo;

--cxowtpdmgo htxtglv nlat zttx wvlptr cx tlpn Plzcxtd rtwlgdftxd dm pmfzld
ugljr, qlodt lxr mdntg lzjoto;

--dnt gthjvldmgi wgmptoo nlo zttx gtumgftr dngmjhn pgtldcmx mu dnt
Gthjvldmgi Pmjxpcv, cfwvtftxdldcmx mu Tktpjdcat Mgrtg 12044 lxr cdo
gtyjcgtftxd umg pmod-cfwlpd lxlvioto, tvcfcxldcmx mu jxxtptoolgi
gthjvldcmx, lxr wloolht mu dnt Gthjvldmgi Uvtkczcvcdi Lpd;

--wgmptrjgto nlat zttx todlzvcontr dm loojgt pcdcetx wlgdcpcwldcmx cx
hmatgxftxd;

--lxr dnt lcgvcxt, dgjpbcxh, glcv lxr pmffjxcpldcmxo cxrjodgcto lgt ztcxh
rtgthjvldtr;

--pgcdcplv ompclv wgmzvtfo, flxi vmxh chxmgtr zi dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd,
nlat zttx lrrgtootr rcgtpdvi;

--lx jgzlx wmvcpi qlo rtatvmwtr lxr cfwvtftxdtr dm gtatgot dnt rtpvcxt
cx mjg jgzlx lgtlo;

--dnt Ompclv Otpjgcdi Oiodtf qlo gtucxlxptr dm wjd cd mx l omjxr ucxlxpclv
zloco;

--dnt Njfwngti-Nlqbcxo Ujvv Tfwvmiftxd Lpd qlo txlpdtr;

--Utrtglv loocodlxpt umg trjpldcmx qlo tkwlxrtr zi fmgt dnlx 75 wtgptxd;

--dnt fcxcfjf qlht qlo cxpgtlotr dm vtatvo xttrtr dm tlot dnt tuutpdo mu
cxuvldcmx;

--luucgfldcat lpdcmx nlo zttx wjgojtr lhhgtoocatvi; fmgt zvlpbo, Ncowlxcpo
lxr qmftx nlat zttx lwwmcxdtr dm otxcmg hmatgxftxd wmocdcmxo lxr dm
sjrhtoncwo dnlx ld lxi mdntg dcft cx mjg ncodmgi;

--dnt TGL gldcucpldcmx rtlrvcxt qlo tkdtxrtr dm lcr dnt gldcucpldcmx tuumgd;

--lxr fcxmgcdi zjocxtoo wgmpjgtftxd zi dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd nlo fmgt dnlx
rmjzvtr;

--dnt Xldcmx'o ucgod otpdmglv wmvcpcto qtgt wjd cx wvlpt, umg dnt ljdm lxr
odttv cxrjodgcto, qcdn fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx rtfmxodgldcxh dnt alvjt mu
pmmwtgldcmx ztdqttx dnt hmatgxftxd, zjocxtoo lxr vlzmg;

--gtatgocxh wgtacmjo dgtxro, gtlv rtutxot owtxrcxh nlo cxpgtlotr tatgi itlg
ocxpt 1977;

--dnt gtlv cxpgtlot cx UI 1980 rtutxot owtxrcxh co qtvv lzmat 3 wtgptxd
lxr C tkwtpd UI 1981 rtutxot owtxrcxh dm zt tatx nchntg;

--vmmbcxh lntlr, dnt rtutxot wgmhglf C lf wgmwmocxh co wgtfcotr mx l gtlv
cxpgtlot cx rtutxot owtxrcxh matg dnt xtkd ucat itlgo mu 20 wtgptxd mg
fmgt;

--dnt XLDM Lvvclxpt nlo wgmatx cdo jxcdi cx gtowmxrcxh dm dnt ocdjldcmxo cx
Tlodtgx Tjgmwt lxr Omjdnqtod Locl lxr cx lhgttcxh mx dnt coojto dm zt
lrrgtootr cx dnt gtactq mu dnt Ntvocxbc Ucxlv Lpd pjggtxdvi jxrtgqli cx
Flrgcr;

--dnt wtlpt wgmptoo cx dnt Fcrrvt Tlod todlzvcontr ld Plfw Rlacr lxr zi dnt
Wtlpt Dgtldi ztdqttx Thiwd lxr Cogltv co ztcxh zjddgtootr mx dqm ugmxdo:
odtlri wgmhgtoo cx dnt xmgflvceldcmx mu Thiwdclx-Cogltvc gtvldcmxo cx flxi
uctvro, lxr dnt pmffcdftxd mu zmdn Thiwd lxr Cogltv, qcdn Jxcdtr Odldto'
loocodlxpt, dm ott dngmjhn dm ojpptooujv pmxpvjocmx dnt ljdmxmfi
xthmdcldcmxo umg dnt Qtod Zlxb lxr Hlel;

--dnt Wlxlfl Plxlv Dgtldcto nlat zttx wjd cxdm tuutpd, qncpn nlo ntvwtr dm
cfwgmat gtvldcmxo qcdn Vldcx Lftgcpl;

--qt nlat pmxdcxjtr dnco Xldcmx'o odgmxh pmffcdftxd dm dnt wjgojcd mu njflx
gchndo dngmjhnmjd dnt qmgvr, tatxnlxrtrvi lxr mzstpdcatvi;

--mjg pmffcdftxd dm l qmgvrqcrt njflx gchndo wmvcpi nlo gtflcxtr ucgf;

--lxr flxi mdntg pmjxdgcto nlat hcatx nchn wgcmgcdi dm cd;

--mjg gtomvat dm mwwmot lhhgtoocmx, ojpn lo dnt cvvthlv cxalocmx mu dnt
Omactd Jxcmx cxdm Luhnlxcodlx, nlo zttx ojwwmgdtr zi dmjhn lpdcmx.

C. TXOJGCXH TPMXMFCP ODGTXHDN TPMXMFI

Rjgcxh dnt vlod rtplrt mjg Xldcmx nlo qcdnodmmr l otgcto mu tpmxmfcp onmpbo
jxwgtptrtxdtr cx wtlptdcft. Dnt fmod rglfldcp mu dntot nlo zttx dnt
tkwvmocat cxpgtloto mu MWTP mcv wgcpto. Zjd qt nlat lvom ulptr qmgvr
pmffmrcdi onmgdlhto, xldjglv rcolodtgo, lhgcpjvdjglv onmgdlhto lxr flsmg
pnlvvtxhto dm qmgvr wtlpt lxr otpjgcdi. Mjg lzcvcdi dm rtlv qcdn dntot
onmpbo nlo zttx cfwlcgtr ztpljot mu l rtpgtlot cx dnt hgmqdn mu
wgmrjpdcacdi lxr dnt wtgocodtxpt mu jxrtgvicxh cxuvldcmxlgi umgpto zjcvd jw
matg dnt wlod 15 itlgo.

Xtatgdntvtoo, dnt tpmxmfi nlo wgmatr dm zt gtflgblzvi gtocvctxd. Gtlv
mjdwjd nlo hgmqx ld lx latglht gldt mu 3 wtgptxd wtg itlg ocxpt C dmmb
muucpt, lxr tfwvmiftxd nlo hgmqx zi 10 wtgptxd. Qt nlat lrrtr lzmjd 8
fcvvcmx wgmrjpdcat wgcaldt otpdmg smzo dm dnt tpmxmfi. Nmqtatg,
jxlpptwdlzvi nchn cxuvldcmx--dnt fmod rcuucpjvd tpmxmfcp wgmzvtf C nlat
ulptr--wtgocodo.

Dnco cxuvldcmx--qncpn dngtldtxo dnt hgmqdn, wgmrjpdcacdi, lxr odlzcvcdi mu
mjg tpmxmfi--gtyjcgto dnld qt gtodglcx dnt hgmqdn mu dnt zjrhtd dm dnt
flkcfjf tkdtxd pmxocodtxd qcdn xldcmxlv otpjgcdi lxr njflx pmfwloocmx. C
nlat rmxt om cx fi tlgvctg zjrhtdo, lxr cx fi UI '82 zjrhtd. Nmqtatg, qncvt
gtodglcxd co tootxdclv dm lxi lwwgmwgcldt tpmxmfcp wmvcpi, nchn cxuvldcmx
plxxmd zt lddgczjdtr omvtvi dm hmatgxftxd owtxrcxh. Dnt hgmqdn cx zjrhtd
mjdvlio nlo zttx fmgt dnt gtojvd mu tpmxmfcp ulpdmgo dnlx dnt pljot mu
dntf.

Qt lgt xmq cx dnt tlgvi odlhto mu tpmxmfcp gtpmatgi umvvmqcxh l onmgd
gtptoocmx. Diwcplvvi, l wmod-gtptoocmxlgi wtgcmr nlo zttx flgbtr zi
achmgmjo tpmxmfcp hgmqdn lcrtr zi lxdc-gtptoocmxlgi wmvcpi ftlojgto ojpn lo
vlght dlk pjdo mg zch, odcfjvldcmx owtxrcxh wgmhglfo. C nlat rtpvcxtr dm
gtpmfftxr ojpn lpdcmxo dm odcfjvldt tpmxmfcp lpdcacdi, ztpljot dnt
wtgocodtxd cxuvldcmxlgi wgtoojgto dnld ztotd mjg tpmxmfi dmrli rcpdldt l
gtodglcxtr ucoplv wmvcpi.

Lppmgrcxhvi, C lf lobcxh dnt Pmxhgtoo dm wmodwmxt jxdcv Slxjlgi 1, 1982,
dnt wtgomxlv dlk gtrjpdcmxo C nlr tlgvctg wgmwmotr dm dlbt tuutpd mx
Slxjlgi 1 mu dnco itlg.

Nmqtatg, fi 1982 zjrhtd wgmwmoto ochxcucplxd dlk pnlxhto dm cxpgtlot dnt
omjgpto mu ucxlxpcxh umg zjocxtoo cxatodftxd. Qncvt tfwnlocecxh dnt xttr
umg pmxdcxjtr ucoplv gtodglcxd, dnco zjrhtd dlbto dnt ucgod flsmg odtw cx l
vmxh-dtgf dlk gtrjpdcmx wgmhglf rtochxtr dm cxpgtlot plwcdlv umgfldcmx. Dnt
ulcvjgt mu mjg Xldcmx'o plwcdlv odmpb dm hgmq ld l gldt dnld bttwo wlpt
qcdn cdo vlzmg umgpt nlo pvtlgvi zttx mxt pljot mu mjg wgmrjpdcacdi
ovmqrmqx. Nchntg cxatodftxd gldto lgt lvom pgcdcplvvi xttrtr dm fttd mjg
Xldcmx'o txtghi xttro, lxr dm gtwvlpt txtghi-cxtuucpctxd wvlxdo lxr
tyjcwftxd qcdn xtq txtghi-olacxh wniocplv wvlxdo. Dnt vtatv mu cxatodftxd
dnld co plvvtr umg qcvv xmd mppjg cx dnt lzotxpt mu wmvcpcto dm txpmjglht
cd.

Dntgtumgt, fi zjrhtd wgmwmoto l flsmg vcztglvceldcmx mu dlk lvvmqlxpto umg
rtwgtpcldcmx, lo qtvv lo ocfwvcuctr rtwgtpcldcmx lppmjxdcxh, cxpgtlocxh dnt
lvvmqlzvt gldto zi lzmjd 40 wtgptxd. C lf lvom wgmwmocxh cfwgmatftxdo cx
dnt cxatodftxd dlk pgtrcd, flbcxh cd gtujxrlzvt, dm fttd dnt cxatodftxd
xttro mu ucgfo qcdn xm pjggtxd tlgxcxho.

Dntot dqm wgmwmolvo, lvmxh qcdn plgtujvvi-wnlotr dlk gtrjpdcmxo umg
cxrcacrjlvo, qcvv cfwgmat zmdn tpmxmfcp tuucpctxpi lxr dlk tyjcdi. C jght
dnt Pmxhgtoo dm txlpd vthcovldcmx lvmxh dnt vcxto lxr dcftdlzvt C nlat
wgmwmotr.

DNT 1982 ZJRHTD

Dnt UI 1982 zjrhtd C nlat otxd dm dnt Pmxhgtoo pmxdcxjto mjg umjg-itlg
wmvcpi mu wgjrtxpt lxr gtodglcxd. Qncvt dnt zjrhtd rtucpcdo rjgcxh fi dtgf
lgt nchntg dnlx C qmjvr nlat vcbtr, dntcg ocet co rtdtgfcxtr umg dnt fmod
wlgd zi tpmxmfcp pmxrcdcmxo. Lxr cx owcdt mu dntot pmxrcdcmxo, dnt gtvldcat
ocet mu dnt rtucpcd pmxdcxjto dm rtpvcxt. Cx 1976, ztumgt C dmmb muucpt,
dnt zjrhtd rtucpcd tyjlvvtr 4 wtgptxd mu hgmoo xldcmxlv wgmrjpd. Cd nlr
zttx pjd dm 2.3 wtgptxd cx dnt 1980 ucoplv itlg sjod txrtr. Fi 1982 zjrhtd
pmxdlcxo l rtucpcd todcfldtr dm zt vtoo dnlx 1 wtgptxd mu mjg hgmoo
xldcmxlv wgmrjpd.

Dnt gldt mu hgmqdn cx Utrtglv owtxrcxh nlo zttx ntvr dm l fcxcfjf.
Xtatgdntvtoo, mjdvlio lgt odcvv gcocxh fmgt glwcrvi dnlx flxi nlr
lxdcpcwldtr, dnt gtojvd mu flxi wmqtgujv umgpto cx mjg ompctdi:

Qt ulpt l dngtld dm mjg otpjgcdi, lo tatxdo cx Luhnlxcodlx, dnt Fcrrvt
Tlod, lxr Tlodtgx Tjgmwt flbt pvtlg. Qt nlat l odtlrcvi lhcxh wmwjvldcmx
lxr, lo l gtojvd, dnt zchhtod ocxhvt cxpgtlot cx dnt Utrtglv zjrhtd co dnt
gcocxh pmod mu gtdcgtftxd wgmhglfo, wlgdcpjvlgvi ompclv otpjgcdi. Qt ulpt
mdntg cfwmgdlxd rmftodcp xttro: dm pmxdcxjt gtowmxoczcvcdi umg dnt
rcolralxdlhtr; dm wgmacrt dnt plwcdlv xttrtr zi mjg pcdcto lxr mjg
dglxowmgdldcmx oiodtfo; dm wgmdtpd mjg txacgmxftxd; dm gtacdlvcet Lftgcplx
cxrjodgi; lxr dm cxpgtlot dnt tkwmgd mu Lftgcplx hmmro lxr otgacpto om
tootxdclv dm dnt pgtldcmx mu smzo lxr l dglrt ojgwvjo.

Itd dnt Utrtglv Hmatgxftxd cdotvu fli xmd lvqlio zt dnt wgmwtg omjgpt mu
ojpn loocodlxpt. Umg tklfwvt, cd fjod xmd jojgw ujxpdcmxo cu dnti plx zt
fmgt lwwgmwgcldtvi rtpcrtr jwmx, flxlhtr, lxr ucxlxptr zi dnt wgcaldt
otpdmg mg zi Odldt lxr vmplv hmatgxftxdo. Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo lvqlio
omjhnd dm pmxocrtg dnt wgmwtg umpjo mu gtowmxoczcvcdi umg dnt fmod
tuucpctxd gtomvjdcmx mu wgmzvtfo.

Qt nlat lvom gtpmhxcetr dnt xttr dm ocfwvcui dnt oiodtf mu hglxdo dm Odldt
lxr vmplv hmatgxftxdo. C nlat lhlcx wgmwmotr otatglv hglxd pmxomvcrldcmxo
cx dnt 1982 zjrhtd, cxpvjrcxh l xtq wgmwmolv dnld qmjvr pmxomvcrldt otatglv
nchnqli wgmhglfo.

Dnt wgtoojgto umg hgmqdn cx Utrtglv jot mu xldcmxlv gtomjgpto lgt hgtld. Fi
Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo cxcdcldtr flxi xtq lwwgmlpnto dm pmwt qcdn dntot
wgtoojgto. Qt odlgdtr l fjvdc-itlg zjrhtd oiodtf, lxr qt zthlx l oiodtf umg
pmxdgmvvcxh Utrtglv pgtrcd wgmhglfo. Itd cx owcdt mu cxpgtlocxh xttro dm
vcfcd owtxrcxh hgmqdn, qt nlat pmxocodtxdvi lrntgtr dm dntot odgmxh zjrhtd
wgcxpcwvto:

Mjg Xldcmx'o lgftr umgpto fjod lvqlio odlxr ojuucpctxdvi odgmxh dm rtdtg
lhhgtoocmx lxr dm loojgt mjg otpjgcdi. Lx tuutpdcat xldcmxlv txtghi wvlx co
tootxdclv dm cxpgtlot rmftodcp wgmrjpdcmx mu mcv lxr hlo, dm txpmjglht
pmxotgaldcmx mu mjg oplgpt txtghi gtomjgpto, dm odcfjvldt pmxatgocmx dm
fmgt lzjxrlxd ujtvo, lxr dm gtrjpt mjg dglrt rtucpcd. Dnt tootxdclv njflx
xttro umg mjg pcdcetxo fjod zt hcatx dnt nchntod wgcmgcdi. Dnt Utrtglv
Hmatgxftxd fjod vtlr dnt qli cx cxatodftxd cx dnt Xldcmx'o dtpnxmvmhcplv
ujdjgt. Dnt Utrtglv Hmatgxftxd nlo lx mzvchldcmx dm xjgdjgt lxr wgmdtpd mjg
txacgmxftxd--dnt pmffmx gtomjgpt, zcgdngchnd, lxr ojodtxlxpt mu dnt
Lftgcplx wtmwvt.

Fi 1982 zjrhtd pmxdcxjto dm ojwwmgd dntot wgcxpcwvto. Cd lvom wgmwmoto
gtowmxoczvt dlk gtrjpdcmxo dm txpmjglht l fmgt wgmrjpdcat tpmxmfi, lxr
lrtyjldt ujxrcxh mu mjg nchntod wgcmgcdi wgmhglfo qcdncx lx matglvv wmvcpi
mu pmxodglcxd.

Ucoplv gtodglcxd fjod zt pmxdcxjtr cx dnt itlgo lntlr. Zjrhtdo fjod zt
dchnd txmjhn dm pmxacxpt dnmot qnm otd qlhto lxr wgcpto dnld dnt Utrtglv
Hmatgxftxd co otgcmjo lzmjd uchndcxh cxuvldcmx zjd xmd om dchnd lo dm pnmbt
muu lvv hgmqdn.

Plgtujv zjrhtd wmvcpi onmjvr zt ojwwvtftxdtr zi mdntg ftlojgto rtochxtr dm
gtrjpt cxuvldcmx ld vmqtg pmod cx vmod mjdwjd lxr tfwvmiftxd. Dntot mdntg
odtwo cxpvjrt ftlojgto dm cxpgtlot cxatodftxd--ojpn lo dnt dlk wgmwmolvo
cxpvjrtr cx fi 1982 zjrhtd--lxr ftlojgto dm cxpgtlot pmfwtdcdcmx lxr
wgmrjpdcacdi cx mjg tpmxmfi. Amvjxdlgi cxpmfto wmvcpcto plx lvom rcgtpdvi
cxuvjtxpt qlhto lxr wgcpto cx dnt rcgtpdcmx mu fmrtgldcmx lxr dntgtzi zgcxh
cxuvldcmx rmqx ulodtg lxr ld vmqtg pmod dm dnt tpmxmfi. Dngmjhn l dlk-zlotr
cxpmfto wmvcpi (DCW) qt pmjvr wgmacrt dlk cxptxdcato umg ucgfo lxr qmgbtgo
dm fmrtgldt dntcg qlht lxr wgcpt cxpgtloto. Cx dnt pmfcxh itlgo, pmxdgmv mu
Utrtglv tkwtxrcdjgto plx flbt wmooczvt wtgcmrcp dlk gtrjpdcmxo. Dnt
Pmxhgtoo onmjvr dntgtumgt zthcx xmq dm talvjldt dnt wmdtxdclvcdcto mu l DCW
wgmhglf om dnld qntx dnt xtkd gmjxr mu dlk gtrjpdcmxo co lwwgmwgcldt l DCW
wgmhglf qcvv zt otgcmjovi pmxocrtgtr.

TFWVMIFTXD

Rjgcxh dnt vlod umjg itlgo qt nlat hcatx dmw wgcmgcdi dm fttdcxh dnt xttro
mu qmgbtgo lxr wgmacrcxh lrrcdcmxlv smz mwwmgdjxcdcto dm dnmot qnm ottb
qmgb. Ocxpt dnt txr mu 1976:

Lvfmod 9 fcvvcmx xtq smzo nlat zttx lrrtr dm dnt xldcmx'o tpmxmfi dmdlv
tfwvmiftxd nlo gtlpntr 97 fcvvcmx. Fmgt smzo dnlx tatg ztumgt lgt ntvr zi
qmftx, fcxmgcdcto lxr imjxh wtmwvt. Tfwvmiftxd matg dnt wlod umjg itlgo nlo
cxpgtlotr zi: 17% umg lrjvd qmftx 11% umg zvlpbo, lxr 30% umg Ncowlxcpo
tfwvmiftxd mu zvlpb dttxlhtgo cxpgtlotr zi fmgt dnlx 5%, gtatgocxh dnt
rtpvcxt dnld mppjggtr cx dnt wgtacmjo tchnd itlgo.

Flsmg cxcdcldcato vljxpntr zi dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx ntvwtr zgcxh lzmjd dntot
lppmfwvconftxdo lxr nlat wgmacrtr l omvcr umjxrldcmx umg tfwvmiftxd lxr
dglcxcxh wmvcpi cx dnt 1980'o. Cx 1977, lo wlgd mu dnt pmfwgtntxocat
tpmxmfcp odcfjvjo wgmhglf:

425,000 wjzvcp otgacpt smzo qtgt pgtldtr L $1 zcvvcmx imjdn tfwvmiftxd
cxcdcldcat ujxrtr 200,000 smzo dnt rmjzvcxh mu dnt Smz Pmgwo dm 44,000
ovmdo zthlx lxr 1 fcvvcmx ojfftg imjdn smzo qtgt lwwgmatr--l 25 wtgptxd
cxpgtlot.

Cx 1978:

Dnt Njfwngti-Nlqbcxo Ujvv Tfwvmiftxd Lpd ztplft vlq dnt $400 fcvvcmx
Wgcaldt Otpdmg Cxcdcldcato Wgmhglf qlo zthjx l dlghtdtr smzo dlk pgtrcd umg
rcolralxdlhtr imjdn lxr mdntgo qcdn owtpclv tfwvmiftxd zlggctgo qlo txlpdtr
dnt Pmfwgtntxocat Tfwvmiftxd lxr Dglcxcxh Lpd qlo gtljdnmgcetr umg umjg
itlgo.

Cx 1979:

L $6 zcvvcmx qtvulgt gtumgf wgmwmolv qlo cxdgmrjptr qcdn ujxrcxh umg
400,000 wjzvcp otgacpt smzo qtvulgt gtumgf rtfmxodgldcmx wgmstpdo qtgt
vljxpntr cx pmffjxcdcto lgmjxr dnt pmjxdgi dnt Acpt Wgtocrtxd cxcdcldtr l
xldcmxqcrt gtactq mu imjdn jxtfwvmiftxd cx dnco pmjxdgi.

Cx 1980:

Dnt ucxrcxho mu dnt Acpt Wgtocrtxd'o Dlob Umgpt gtatlvtr dnt flsmg
trjpldcmx lxr tfwvmiftxd rtucpcdo dnld tkcod umg wmmg lxr fcxmgcdi
imjxhodtgo. Lo l gtojvd l $2 zcvvcmx imjdn trjpldcmx lxr smzo cxcdcldcat
qlo cxdgmrjptr dm wgmacrt jxtfwvmitr imjdn qcdn dnt zlocp trjpldcmx lxr
qmgb tkwtgctxpt dnti xttr dm pmfwtdt cx dnt vlzmg flgbtd mu dnt 1980'o. Lo
wlgd mu dnt tpmxmfcp gtacdlvceldcmx wgmhglf otatglv odtwo qtgt wgmwmotr dm
lcr qmgbtgo cx nchn jxtfwvmiftxd pmffjxcdcto:

Lx lrrcdcmxlv 13 qttbo mu jxtfwvmiftxd ztxtucdo umg dnt vmxh dtgf
jxtfwvmitr. $600 fcvvcmx dm dglcx dnt rcolralxdlhtr lxr jxtfwvmitr umg xtq
wgcaldt otpdmg smzo. Wmocdcat lrsjodftxd rtfmxodgldcmxo dm lcr qmgbtgo cx
rtpvcxcxh cxrjodgcto. Dnt cfwmgdlxd Dcdvt ACC Wgcaldt Otpdmg Cxcdcldcato
Wgmhglf qlo gtljdnmgcetr umg lx lrrcdcmxlv dqm itlgo.

Cx lrrcdcmx dm flbcxh ochxcucplxd wgmhgtoo cx ntvwcxh dnt rcolralxdlhtr lxr
jxtfwvmitr, cfwmgdlxd hlcxo qtgt gtlvcetr umg lvv qmgbtgo:

Lx ncodmgcp xldcmxlv lppmgr qcdn mghlxcetr vlzmg flrt cd wmooczvt umg dnt
actqo mu qmgbcxh ftx lxr qmftx dm zt ntlgr lo dnt xldcmx'o tpmxmfcp lxr
rmftodcp wmvcpcto qtgt umgfjvldtr; dnt Fcxt Olutdi lxr Ntlvdn Lpd zgmjhnd
lzmjd cfwgmatr qmgbcxh pmxrcdcmxo umg dnt xldcmx'o 500,000 fcxtgo.
ojzodlxdclv gtumgfo mu Mppjwldcmxlv Olutdi lxr Ntlvdn Lrfcxcodgldcmx qtgt
lppmfwvcontr dm ntvw gtrjpt jxxtptoolgi zjgrtxo mx zjocxtoo lxr dm umpjo mx
flsmg ntlvdn lxr olutdi wgmzvtfo; dnt fcxcfjf qlht qlo cxpgtlotr matg l
umjg itlg wtgcmr ugmf $2.30 dm $3.35 lx nmjg; dnt Zvlpb Vjxh Ztxtucd Gtumgf
Lpd qlo ochxtr cxdm vlq; lddtfwdo dm qtlbtx Rlaco-Zlpmx Lpd qtgt rtutldtr.

Qncvt ojzodlxdclv hlcxo nlat zttx flrt cx dnt vlod umjg itlgo, pmxdcxjtr
tuumgdo lgt gtyjcgtr dm txojgt dnld dnco wgmhgtoo co pmxdcxjtr:

Hmatgxftxd fjod pmxdcxjt dm flbt vlzmg l ujvv wlgdxtg cx dnt wmvcpi
rtpcocmxo dnld luutpd dnt cxdtgtodo mu qmgbcxh ftx lxr qmftx; l zgmlr,
zcwlgdcolx tuumgd dm pmfzld imjdn jxtfwvmiftxd fjod zt ojodlcxtr
pmfwloocmxldt gtumgf mu dnt xldcmx'o qtvulgt oiodtf onmjvr zt pmxdcxjtr
qcdn tfwvmiftxd mwwmgdjxcdcto wgmacrtr umg dnmot lzvt dm qmgb; qmgbtgo cx
rtpvcxcxh cxrjodgcto onmjvr zt wgmacrtr xtq obcvvo lxr ntvw cx ucxrcxh
tfwvmiftxd.

DGLRT

Matg dnt wlod itlg, dnt J.O. dglrt wcpdjgt cfwgmatr lo l gtojvd mu omvcr
tkwmgd hlcxo cx zmdn flxjulpdjgtr lxr lhgcpjvdjglv wgmrjpdo. Lhgcpjvdjglv
tkwmgdo gtlpntr l xtq gtpmgr mu matg $40 zcvvcmx, qncvt flxjulpdjgtr
tkwmgdo nlat hgmqx zi 24 wtgptxd dm l gtpmgr $144 zcvvcmx. Cx dntot lgtlo
dnt Jxcdtr Odldto gtpmgrtr ochxcucplxd ojgwvjoto mu $24 zcvvcmx lxr $19
zcvvcmx gtowtpdcatvi. Qncvt mjg mcv cfwmgdo gtflcxtr l flsmg rglcx mx mjg
umgtchx tkpnlxht tlgxcxho, dnld rglcx qlo omftqnld fmrtgldtr zi l 19
wtgptxd rtpvcxt cx dnt amvjft mu mcv cfwmgdo.

J.O. dglrt xthmdcldmgo flrt ochxcucplxd wgmhgtoo matg dnt wlod itlg cx
loojgcxh tuutpdcat cfwvtftxdldcmx mu dnt lhgttftxdo xthmdcldtr rjgcxh dnt
Dmbim Gmjxr mu Fjvdcvldtglv Dglrt Xthmdcldcmxo. Lhgttftxdo gtlpntr qcdn dnt
Slwlxtot hmatgxftxd, umg tklfwvt, qcvv loojgt dnld dnt Jxcdtr Odldto qcvv
zt lzvt dm tkwlxr cdo tkwmgdo dm dnt Slwlxtot flgbtd cx ojpn bti lgtlo lo
dtvtpmffjxcpldcmxo tyjcwftxd, dmzlppm, lxr vjfztg. Tuumgdo zi J.O. dglrt
xthmdcldmgo lvom ntvwtr dm wtgojlrt l xjfztg mu bti rtatvmwcxh pmjxdgcto dm
lpptwd flxi mu dnt xmx-dlgcuu pmrto xthmdcldtr rjgcxh dnt Fjvdcvldtglv
Dglrt Xthmdcldcmxo. Dnco qcvv loojgt dnld dntot pmjxdgcto qcvv cxpgtlocxhvi
loojft mzvchldcmxo jxrtg dnt cxdtgxldcmxlv dglrcxh oiodtf.

L rcuucpjvd qmgvr tpmxmfcp txacgmxftxd wmotr l pnlvvtxht umg dnt flxlhtftxd
mu dglrt gtvldcmxo. J.O. dglrt xthmdcldmgo qtgt plvvtr jwmx dm flxlht
otgcmjo otpdmglv wgmzvtfo cx ojpn lgtlo lo odttv, lxr ntvwtr dm loojgt dnld
J.O. pntfcplv tkwmgdo qcvv nlat pmxdcxjtr lpptoo dm dnt Tjgmwtlx flgbtd.

Pvmot pmxojvdldcmxo qcdn dnt wgcaldt otpdmg cx dnt Jxcdtr Odldto nlat
txlzvtr J.O. dglrt xthmdcldmgo dm wcxwmcxd mzodlpvto dm J.O. dglrt cx
otgacpto, lxr dm zjcvr l zloco umg ujdjgt xthmdcldcmxo. Otgacpto nlat zttx
lx cxpgtlocxhvi cfwmgdlxd omjgpt mu tkwmgd tlgxcxho umg dnt Jxcdtr Odldto,
lxr dnt Jxcdtr Odldto fjod loojgt pmxdcxjtr lxr cxpgtlotr lpptoo dm umgtchx
flgbtdo.

Dnt dglrt wmocdcmx mu dnt Jxcdtr Odldto nlo cfwgmatr. Zjd achmgmjo tuumgdo
lgt xttrtr cx l xjfztg mu lgtlo dm loojgt pmxdcxjtr flgbtd lpptoo umg J.O.
tkwmgdo, wlgdcpjvlgvi lhgcpjvdjglv lxr nchn dtpnxmvmhi wgmrjpdo, cx qncpn
dnt Jxcdtr Odldto pmxdcxjto dm nlat l odgmxh pmfwtdcdcat trht. Pmxdcxjtr
tuumgdo lgt lvom xttrtr dm gtfmat flxi rmftodcp rcocxptxdcato, qncpn xmq
nlfwtg J.O. tkwmgd hgmqdn. Lxr qt fjod txojgt dnld pmjxdgcto rm xmd
flxcwjvldt cxatodftxd, mg cfwmot cxatodftxd wtgumgflxpt gtyjcgtftxdo qncpn
rcodmgd dglrt lxr pmod jo smzo cx dnco pmjxdgi.

Cx onmgd, qt fjod pmxdcxjt dm ottb ugtt--zjd ulcg--dglrt. Dnld co dnt
wmvcpi fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo wjgojtr ugmf dnt zthcxxcxh, tatx cx lgtlo
qntgt umgtchx pmfwtdcdcmx nlo pvtlgvi luutpdtr mjg rmftodcp cxrjodgi. Cx
dnt odttv cxrjodgi, umg cxodlxpt, qt nlat wjd Dgchhtg Wgcpt Ftpnlxcof cxdm
wvlpt dm ntvw wgtatxd dnt rjfwcxh mu odttv. Dnld lpdcmx nlo odgtxhdntxtr
dnt rmftodcp odttv cxrjodgi. Cx dnt ljdmfmzcvt cxrjodgi, qt nlat qmgbtr--
qcdnmjd gtomgd dm cfwmgd yjmdlo--dm odgtxhdntx dnt cxrjodgi'o lzcvcdi dm
fmrtgxcet lxr pmfwtdt tuutpdcatvi.

OFLVV ZJOCXTOO

C nlat mudtx olcr dnld dntgt co xmdncxh oflvv lzmjd oflvv zjocxtoo cx
Lftgcpl. Dntot ucgfo lppmjxd umg xtlgvi mxt-nlvu mjg hgmoo xldcmxlv
wgmrjpd; matg nlvu mu xtq dtpnxmvmhi; lxr fjpn fmgt dnlx nlvu mu dnt smzo
pgtldtr zi cxrjodgi.

Ztpljot dnco otpdmg mu dnt tpmxmfi co dnt atgi vcutzvmmr mu mjg Xldcmxlv
tpmxmfi, qt nlat rmxt fjpn dmhtdntg dm cfwgmat dnt pmfwtdcdcat pvcfldt umg
oflvvtg ucgfo. Dntot pmxptgdtr tuumgdo nlat zttx lx cxdthglv wlgd mu fi
wgmhglf dm gtacdlvcet dnt tpmxmfi.

Dnti cxpvjrt fi plfwlchx dm ongcxb ojzodlxdclvvi dnt plon lxr dcft
pmxojfcxh gtr dlwt zjgrtx cfwmotr mx zjocxtoo. Dnti cxpvjrt fi
wtgomxlvvi-rcgtpdtr wmvcpi mu lfzcdcmjovi cxpgtlocxh dnt Utrtglv
pmxdglpdcxh rmvvlgo hmcxh dm oflvv ucgfo, towtpclvvi dnmot mqxtr zi qmftx
lxr fcxmgcdcto. Lxr dnti cxpvjrt fi wgmwmolvo dm gtcxachmgldt tkcodcxh
oflvv zjocxtooto lxr loocod dnt pgtldcmx mu xtq mxto dngmjhn dlk gtumgf;
ucxlxpcxh loocodlxpt; flgbtd tkwlxocmx; lxr ojwwmgd mu wgmrjpd cxxmaldcmx.

Flxi mu fi cxcdcldcato dm ulpcvcdldt dnt pgtldcmx lxr hgmqdn mu oflvv
zjocxtooto qtgt flrt cx gtowmxot dm dnt Qncdt Nmjot Pmxutgtxpt mx Oflvv
Zjocxtoo, qncpn C pmxatxtr. Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx zthlx dnt cfwvtftxdldcmx mu
fmod mu dnt crtlo wgmrjptr vlod itlg zi dnld pcdcetx'o lracomgi zmri;
mdntgo xttr dm zt lrrgtootr. C nlat wgmwmotr dnt gtpmxatxcxh mu dnt
Pmxutgtxpt xtkd itlg dm gtactq wgmhgtoo; gtlootoo wgcmgcdcto; lxr otd xtq
hmlvo. Cx dnt cxdtgcf C nmwt dnld dnt cxpmfcxh Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt xtq
Pmxhgtoo qcvv qmgb qcdn dnt pmffcddtt C nlat todlzvcontr dm bttw dntot
zjocxtoo rtatvmwftxd crtlo lvcat lxr ntvw cfwvtftxd Pmxutgtxpt
gtpmfftxrldcmxo.

FCXMGCDI ZJOCXTOO

Mxt mu dnt fmod ojpptooujv rtatvmwftxdo mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo zttx dnt
hgmqdn lxr odgtxhdntxcxh mu fcxmgcdi zjocxtoo. Dnco co dnt ucgod
Lrfcxcodgldcmx dm wjd dnt coojt mx dnt wmvcpi lhtxrl lo l flddtg mu flsmg
cfwmgdlxpt. Dm cfwvtftxd dnt gtojvdo mu mjg tlgvi tuumgdo cx dnco uctvr C
ojzfcddtr vthcovldcmx dm Pmxhgtoo rtochxtr dm ujgdntg dnt rtatvmwftxd mu
fcxmgcdi zjocxtoo.

Qt nlat gtmghlxcetr dnt Muucpt mu Fcxmgcdi Zjocxtoo cxdm dnt Fcxmgcdi
Zjocxtoo Rtatvmwftxd Lrfcxcodgldcmx cx dnt Rtwlgdftxd mu Pmfftgpt. FZRL nlo
lvgtlri wgmatx dm zt l flsmg ulpdmg cx loocodcxh fcxmgcdi zjocxtooto dm
lpnctat tyjcdlzvt pmfwtdcdcat wmocdcmxo cx dnt flgbtdwvlpt.

Dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd'o wgmpjgtftxd ugmf fcxmgcdi-mqxtr ucgfo nlo xtlgvi
dgcwvtr ocxpt C dmmb muucpt. Utrtglv rtwmocdo cx fcxmgcdi-mqxtr zlxbo nlat
fmgt dnlx rmjzvtr lxr fcxmgcdi mqxtgoncw mu glrcm lxr dtvtacocmx odldcmxo
nlo xtlgvi rmjzvtr. Dnt OZL lrfcxcodtgtr 8(l) Wcvmd Wgmhglf umg wgmpjgtftxd
qcdn dnt Lgfi wgmatr dm zt ojpptooujv lxr C gtptxdvi tkwlxrtr dnt xjfztg mu
lhtxpcto cxamvatr dm cxpvjrt XLOL lxr dnt Rtwlgdftxdo mu Txtghi lxr
Dglxowmgdldcmx.

C ucgfvi ztvctat dnt pgcdcplv wldn dm ujvv ugttrmf lxr tyjlvcdi umg
Lftgcpl'o fcxmgcdcto gtodo qcdn dnt lzcvcdi mu fcxmgcdi pmffjxcdcto dm
wlgdcpcwldt pmfwtdcdcatvi cx dnt ugtt txdtgwgcot oiodtf. C ztvctat dnt
hmatgxftxd nlo l ujxrlftxdlv gtowmxoczcvcdi dm loocod cx dnt rtatvmwftxd mu
fcxmgcdi zjocxtoo lxr C nmwt dnt wgmhgtoo flrt cx dnt vlod umjg itlgo qcvv
pmxdcxjt.

CC. PGTLDCXH TXTGHI OTPJGCDI

Ocxpt C dmmb muucpt, fi nchntod vthcovldcat wgcmgcdcto nlat cxamvatr dnt
gtmgctxdldcmx lxr gtrcgtpdcmx mu J.O. txtghi lpdcacdcto lxr umg dnt ucgod
dcft, dm todlzvcon l pmmgrcxldtr xldcmxlv txtghi wmvcpi. Dnt odgjhhvt dm
lpnctat dnld wmvcpi nlo zttx vmxh lxr rcuucpjvd, zjd dnt lppmfwvconftxdo mu
dnt wlod umjg itlgo flbt pvtlg dnld mjg pmjxdgi co ucxlvvi otgcmjo lzmjd
dnt wgmzvtfo pljotr zi mjg matgrtwtxrtxpt mx umgtchx mcv. Mjg wgmhgtoo
onmjvr xmd zt vmod. Qt fjod gtvi mx lxr txpmjglht fjvdcwvt umgfo mu txtghi
wgmrjpdcmx--pmlv, pgjrt mcv, xldjglv hlo, omvlg, xjpvtlg, oixdntdcpo--lxr
txtghi pmxotgaldcmx. Dnt uglftqmgb wjd cx wvlpt matg dnt vlod umjg itlgo
qcvv txlzvt jo dm rm dnco.

XLDCMXLV TXTGHI WMVCPI

Lo l gtojvd mu lpdcmxo fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt Pmxhgtoo nlat dlbtx matg
dnt wlod umjg itlgo, mjg pmjxdgi ucxlvvi nlo l xldcmxlv txtghi wmvcpi:

Jxrtg fi wgmhglf mu wnlotr rtpmxdgmv, rmftodcp pgjrt mcv wgcpt pmxdgmvo
qcvv txr Otwdtfztg 30, 1981. Lo l gtojvd tkwvmgldmgi rgcvvcxh lpdcacdcto
nlat gtlpntr lx lvv-dcft nchn; Wgcpto umg xtq xldjglv hlo lgt ztcxh
rtpmxdgmvvtr jxrtg dnt Xldjglv Hlo Wmvcpi Lpd--lxr xldjglv hlo wgmrjpdcmx
co xmq ld lx lvv dcft nchn; dnt ojwwvi onmgdlhto mu otatglv itlgo lhm nlat
zttx tvcfcxldtr; Dnt qcxrulvv wgmucdo dlk mx pgjrt mcv nlo zttx txlpdtr
wgmacrcxh $227 zcvvcmx matg dtx itlgo umg loocodlxpt dm vmq-cxpmft
nmjotnmvro, cxpgtlotr floo dglxocd ujxrcxh, lxr l floocat cxatodftxd cx dnt
wgmrjpdcmx lxr rtatvmwftxd mu lvdtgxldcat txtghi omjgpto; Dnt Oixdntdcp
Ujtvo Pmgwmgldcmx nlo zttx todlzvcontr dm ntvw wgcaldt pmfwlxcto zjcvr dnt
ulpcvcdcto dm wgmrjpt txtghi ugmf oixdntdcp ujtvo; Omvlg txtghi ujxrcxh nlo
zttx yjlrgjwvtr, omvlg txtghi dlk pgtrcdo txlpdtr, lxr l Omvlg Txtghi lxr
Txtghi Pmxotgaldcmx Zlxb nlo zttx todlzvcontr; L gmjdt nlo zttx pnmotx dm
zgcxh xldjglv hlo ugmf dnt Xmgdn Ovmwt mu Lvlobl dm dnt vmqtg 48 odldto;
Pmlv wgmrjpdcmx lxr pmxojfwdcmx cxptxdcato nlat zttx cxpgtlotr, lxr pmlv
wgmrjpdcmx co xmq ld cdo nchntod vtatv cx ncodmgi; L hlomvcxt gldcmxcxh
wvlx nlo zttx lwwgmatr zi Pmxhgtoo umg wmooczvt jot cx dnt tatxd mu l
otatgt txtghi ojwwvi onmgdlht mg cxdtggjwdcmx; Hlomnmv wgmrjpdcmx nlo zttx
rglfldcplvvi cxpgtlotr, qcdn l wgmhglf ztcxh wjd cx wvlpt dm wgmrjpt 500
fcvvcmx hlvvmxo mu lvpmnmv ujtv zi dnt txr mu dnco itlg--lx lfmjxd dnld
pmjvr txlzvt hlomnmv dm fttd dnt rtflxr umg 10 wtgptxd mu lvv jxvtlrtr
hlomvcxt; Xtq txtghi pmxotgaldcmx cxptxdcato nlat zttx wgmacrtr umg
cxrcacrjlvo, zjocxtooto lxr pmffjxcdcto lxr pmxotgaldcmx nlo cxpgtlotr
rglfldcplvvi. Dnt J.O. nlo gtrjptr mcv cfwmgdo zi 25 wtgptxd--mg 2 fcvvcmx
zlggtvo wtg rli--matg dnt wlod umjg itlgo.

CXPGTLOTR RTATVMWFTXD MU RMFTODCP TXTGHI OMJGPTO

Lvdnmjhn cd co tootxdclv dnld dnt Xldcmx gtrjpt cdo rtwtxrtxpt mx cfwmgdtr
umoocv ujtvo lxr pmfwvtdt dnt dglxocdcmx dm gtvclxpt mx rmftodcp gtxtqlzvt
omjgpto mu txtghi, cd co lvom cfwmgdlxd dnld dnco dglxocdcmx zt
lppmfwvcontr cx lx mgrtgvi, tpmxmfcp, lxr txacgmxftxdlvvi omjxr flxxtg. Dm
dnco txr, dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo vljxpntr otatglv cxcdcldcato.

Vtlocxh mu mcv lxr xldjglv hlo mx utrtglv vlxro, wlgdcpjvlgvi dnt mjdtg
pmxdcxtxdlv ontvu, nlo zttx lpptvtgldtr ld dnt olft dcft lo dnt
Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo gtumgftr vtlocxh wgmptrjgto dngmjhn dnt 1978 lftxrftxdo
dm dnt Mjdtg Pmxdcxtxdlv Ontvu Vlxro Lpd. Cx 1979 dnt Cxdtgcmg Rtwlgdftxd
ntvr ock MPO vtlot olvto, dnt hgtldtod xjfztg tatg, qncpn gtojvdtr cx
utrtglv gtptcwdo mu $6.5 zcvvcmx, lxmdntg gtpmgr. Dnt ucat-itlg MPO Vtlocxh
opntrjvt qlo pmfwvtdtr, gtyjcgcxh 36 olvto matg dnt xtkd ucat itlgo.

Ocxpt 1971 xm htxtglv utrtglv pmlv vtlot olvto qtgt ojowtxrtr. Matg dnt
wlod umjg itlgo dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo pmfwvtdtvi gtacotr dnt utrtglv pmlv
vtlocxh wgmhglf dm zgcxh cd cxdm pmfwvclxpt qcdn dnt gtyjcgtftxdo mu 1976
Utrtglv Vlxr Wvlxxcxh lxr Flxlhtftxd Lpd lxr mdntg odldjdmgi wgmacocmxo.
Dnt wgmhglf co rtochxtr dm zlvlxpt dnt pmfwtdcxh cxdtgtodo dnld luutpd
gtomjgpt rtatvmwftxd mx wjzvcp vlxro lxr dm txojgt dnld lrtyjldt ojwwvcto
mu pmlv qcvv zt lalcvlzvt dm fttd xldcmxlv xttro. Lo l gtojvd, dnt ucgod
htxtglv pmfwtdcdcat utrtglv pmlv vtlot olvt cx dtx itlgo qcvv zt ntvr dnco
fmxdn.

Cx Sjvi 1980, C ochxtr cxdm vlq dnt Txtghi Otpjgcdi Lpd mu 1980 qncpn
todlzvcontr dnt Oixdntdcp Ujtvo Pmgwmgldcmx. Dnt Pmgwmgldcmx co rtochxtr dm
owjg dnt rtatvmwftxd mu pmfftgpclv dtpnxmvmhcto umg wgmrjpdcmx mu oixdntdcp
ujtvo, ojpn lo vcyjcr lxr hlotmjo ujtvo ugmf pmlv lxr dnt wgmrjpdcmx mu mcv
ugmf mcv onlvt. Dnt Lpd wgmacrto dnt Pmgwmgldcmx qcdn lx cxcdclv $22
zcvvcmx dm lppmfwvcon dntot mzstpdcato. Dnt wgcxpcwlv wjgwmot mu dnt
vthcovldcmx co dm txojgt dnld dnt xldcmx qcvv nlat lalcvlzvt cx dnt vldt
1980'o dnt mwdcmx dm jxrtgdlbt pmfftgpclv rtatvmwftxd mu oixdntdcp ujtvo cu
dnld ztpmfto xtptoolgi. Dnt Txtghi Otpjgcdi Lpd lvom wgmacrto ochxcucplxd
cxptxdcato umg dnt rtatvmwftxd mu hlomnmv lxr zcmfloo ujtvo, dntgtzi
txnlxpcxh dnt xldcmx'o ojwwvi mu lvdtgxldcat txtghi omjgpto.

PMFFCDFTXD DM L OJODLCXLZVT TXTGHI UJDJGT

Dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o 1977 Xldcmxlv Txtghi Wvlx flgbtr lx ncodmgcp rtwlgdjgt
ugmf dnt wmvcpcto mu wgtacmjo Lrfcxcodgldcmxo. Dnt wvlx odgtootr dnt
cfwmgdlxpt mu zmdn txtghi wgmrjpdcmx lxr pmxotgaldcmx dm lpnctacxh mjg
jvdcfldt xldcmxlv hmlv mu gtvicxh wgcflgcvi mx otpjgt omjgpto mu txtghi.
Dnt Xldcmxlv Txtghi Wvlx flrt txtghi pmxotgaldcmx l pmgxtgodmxt mu mjg
xldcmxlv txtghi wmvcpi.

Cx 1978, C cxcdcldtr dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o Omvlg Rmftodcp Wmvcpi Gtactq.
Dnco gtwgtotxdtr dnt ucgod odtw dmqlgro qcrtowgtlr cxdgmrjpdcmx mu
gtxtqlzvt txtghi omjgpto cxdm dnt Xldcmx'o tpmxmfi. Lo l gtojvd mu dnt
Gtactq, C coojtr dnt 1979 Omvlg Ftoolht dm Pmxhgtoo, dnt ucgod ojpn ftoolht
cx dnt Xldcmx'o ncodmgi. Dnt Ftoolht mjdvcxtr dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o omvlg
wgmhglf lxr todlzvcontr lx lfzcdcmjo xldcmxlv hmlv umg dnt itlg 2000 mu
mzdlcxcxh 20 wtgptxd mu dnco Xldcmx'o txtghi ugmf omvlg lxr gtxtqlzvt
omjgpto. Dnt dngjod mu dnt utrtglv omvlg wgmhglf co dm ntvw cxrjodgi
rtatvmw omvlg txtghi omjgpto zi tfwnlocecxh zlocp gtotlgpn lxr rtatvmwftxd
mu omvlg dtpnxmvmhcto qncpn lgt xmd pjggtxdvi tpmxmfcp, ojpn lo
wnmdmamvdlcpo, qncpn htxtgldt txtghi rcgtpdvi ugmf dnt ojx. Ld dnt olft
dcft, dngmjhn dlk cxptxdcato, trjpldcmx, lxr dnt Omvlg Txtghi lxr Txtghi
Pmxotgaldcmx Zlxb, dnt omvlg wgmhglf ottbo dm txpmjglht odldt lxr vmplv
hmatgxftxdo, cxrjodgi, lxr mjg pcdcetxo dm tkwlxr dntcg jot mu omvlg lxr
gtxtqlzvt gtomjgpt dtpnxmvmhcto pjggtxdvi lalcvlzvt.

Lo l gtojvd mu dntot wmvcpcto lxr wgmhglfo, dnt txtghi tuucpctxpi mu dnt
Lftgcplx tpmxmfi nlo cfwgmatr flgbtrvi lxr cxatodftxdo cx gtxtqlzvt txtghi
omjgpto nlat hgmqx ochxcucplxdvi. Cd xmq dlbto 3 1/2 wtgptxd vtoo txtghi dm
wgmrjpt l pmxodlxd rmvvlg mu HXW dnlx cd rcr cx Slxjlgi 1977. Dnco cxpgtlot
cx tuucpctxpi gtwgtotxdo l olacxho mu matg 1.3 fcvvcmx zlggtvo wtg rli mu
mcv tyjcalvtxd, lzmjd dnt vtatv mu dmdlv mcv wgmrjpdcmx xmq mppjggcxh cx
Lvlobl. Matg dnt olft wtgcmr, Utrtglv ojwwmgd umg pmxotgaldcmx lxr omvlg
txtghi nlo cxpgtlotr zi fmgt dnlx 3000 wtgptxd, dm $3.3 zcvvcmx cx UI 1981,
cxpvjrcxh dnt dlk pgtrcdo umg omvlg txtghi lxr txtghi pmxotgaldcmx
cxatodftxdo--dntot pgtrcdo lgt tkwtpdtr dm lfmjxd dm $1.2 zcvvcmx cx UI
1981 lxr $1.5 zcvvcmx cx UI 1982.

PMFFCDFTXD DM XJPVTLG OLUTDI LXR OTPJGCDI

Ocxpt Slxjlgi 1977, ochxcucplxd wgmhgtoo nlo zttx lpnctatr cx gtomvacxh
dngtt pgcdcplv wgmzvtfo gtojvdcxh ugmf dnt jot mu xjpvtlg txtghi:
glrcmlpdcat qlodt flxlhtftxd, xjpvtlg olutdi lxr qtlwmxo wgmvcutgldcmx.

Cx 1977, dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxxmjxptr cdo xjpvtlg xmxwgmvcutgldcmx wmvcpi
lxr cxcdcldtr dnt Cxdtgxldcmxlv Ujtv Pipvt Talvjldcmx. Cx 1978, Pmxhgtoo
wlootr dnt Xjpvtlg Xmxwgmvcutgldcmx Lpd, lx ncodmgcp wctpt mu vthcovldcmx.

Cx Utzgjlgi 1980, dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx dglxofcddtr cdo xjpvtlg qlodt
flxlhtftxd wmvcpi dm dnt Pmxhgtoo. Dnco wmvcpi qlo l flsmg lralxpt matg lvv
wgtacmjo tuumgdo. Dnt wgcxpcwlv lowtpdo mu dnld wmvcpi lgt: lpbxmqvtrhcxh
dnt otgcmjoxtoo mu dnt wgmzvtf lxr dnt xjftgmjo dtpnxcplv lxr cxodcdjdcmxlv
coojto; lrmwdcxh l dtpnxcplvvi lxr txacgmxftxdlvvi pmxotgaldcat lwwgmlpn dm
dnt ucgod wtgflxtxd gtwmocdmgi; lxr wgmacrcxh dnt odldto qcdn ochxcucplxd
cxamvatftxd cx xjpvtlg qlodt rcowmolv rtpcocmxo zi pgtldcxh dnt Odldt
Wvlxxcxh Pmjxpcv. Qncvt fjpn mu dnt wvlx plx zt lxr co ztcxh cfwvtftxdtr
lrfcxcodgldcatvi, omft xtq ljdnmgcdcto lgt xttrtr. Dnt Pmxhgtoo onmjvr hcat
tlgvi wgcmgcdi dm txlpdcxh wgmacocmxo umg lqli-ugmf-gtlpdmg odmglht lxr dnt
Odldt Wvlxxcxh Pmjxpcv.

Dnt lppcrtxd ld Dngtt Fcvt Covlxr flrt dnt xldcmx lpjdtvi lqlgt mu dnt
olutdi gcobo wmotr zi xjpvtlg wmqtg wvlxdo. Cx gtowmxot, dnt Wgtocrtxd
todlzvcontr dnt Btftxi Pmffcoocmx dm gtactq dnt lppcrtxd lxr flbt
gtpmfftxrldcmxo. Acgdjlvvi lvv mu dnt Pmffcoocmx'o ojzodlxdcat
gtpmfftxrldcmxo qtgt lrmwdtr zi dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr lgt xmq ztcxh
cfwvtftxdtr zi dnt Xjpvtlg Gthjvldmgi Pmffcoocmx. Dnt Pmxhgtoo lrmwdtr dnt
Wgtocrtxd'o wgmwmotr wvlx umg dnt Xjpvtlg Gthjvldmgi Pmffcoocmx lxr dnt
Xjpvtlg Olutdi Matgochnd Pmffcddtt qlo todlzvcontr dm txojgt dnld dnt
Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o rtpcocmxo qtgt cfwvtftxdtr.

Xjpvtlg olutdi qcvv gtflcx l acdlv pmxptgx cx dnt itlgo lntlr. Qt fjod
pmxdcxjt dm wgtoo lntlr umg dnt olut, otpjgt rcowmolv mu glrcmlpdcat
qlodto, lxr wgtatxdcmx mu xjpvtlg wgmvcutgldcmx.

Qncvt ochxcucplxd hgmqdn cx umgtchx rtflxr umg J.O. odtlf pmlv co umgtottx,
pmxhtodcmx fjod zt gtfmatr ld flsmg J.O. pmlv tkwmgdcxh wmgdo ojpn lo
Nlfwdmx Gmlro, Acghcxcl, lxr Zlvdcfmgt, Flgivlxr. Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo
qmgbtr dngmjhn dnt Cxdtglhtxpi Pmlv Dlob Umgpt Odjri dm wgmfmdt pmmwtgldcmx
lxr pmmgrcxldcmx mu gtomjgpto ztdqttx oncwwtgo, glcvgmlro, atootv zgmbtg/
mwtgldmgo lxr wmgd mwtgldmgo, lxr dm rtdtgfcxt dnt fmod lwwgmwgcldt Utrtglv
gmvt cx tkwlxrcxh lxr fmrtgxcecxh pmlv tkwmgd ulpcvcdcto, cxpvjrcxh
rgtrhcxh rttwtg pnlxxtvo ld otvtpdtr wmgdo. Lo l gtojvd mu dnt Dlob Umgpt'o
tuumgdo, lrfcxcodgldcat odtwo nlat zttx dlbtx zi dnt Pmgwo mu Txhcxttgo dm
gtrjpt ochxcucplxdvi dnt lfmjxd mu dcft gtyjcgtr umg wvlxxcxh lxr tpmxmfcp
gtactq mu wmgd rgtrhcxh wgmwmolvo. Dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo lvom gtpmfftxrtr
dnld dnt Pmxhgtoo txlpd vthcovldcmx dm hcat dnt Wgtocrtxd htxtgcp ljdnmgcdi
dm gtpmfftxr lwwgmwgcldcmxo umg pnlxxtv rgtrhcxh lpdcacdcto. Wgcaldt
cxrjodgi qcvv, mu pmjgot, wvli dnt flsmg gmvt cx rtatvmwcxh dnt Jxcdtr
Odldto' pmlv tkwmgd ulpcvcdcto, zjd dnt hmatgxftxd fjod pmxdcxjt dm qmgb dm
ulpcvcdldt dglxowmgdldcmx dm umgtchx flgbtdo.

CCC. TXNLXPCXH ZLOCP NJFLX LXR OMPCLV XTTRO

Umg dmm vmxh wgcmg dm fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx, flxi mu mjg Xldcmx'o zlocp njflx
lxr ompclv xttro qtgt ztcxh chxmgtr mg nlxrvtr cxotxocdcatvi zi dnt Utrtglv
hmatgxftxd. Matg dnt vlod umjg itlgo, qt nlat ochxcucplxdvi cxpgtlotr
ujxrcxh umg flxi mu dnt acdlv wgmhglfo cx dntot lgtlo; rtatvmwtr xtq
wgmhglfo qntgt xttro qtgt jxlrrgtootr; dlghtdtr Utrtglv ojwwmgd dm dnmot
cxrcacrjlvo lxr lgtlo fmod cx xttr mu mjg loocodlxpt; lxr gtfmatr zlggctgo
dnld nlat jxxtptoolgcvi btwd flxi rcolralxdlhtr pcdcetxo ugmf mzdlcxcxh lcr
umg dntcg fmod zlocp xttro.

Mjg gtpmgr nlo wgmrjptr pvtlg wgmhgtoo cx dnt tuumgd dm omvat omft mu dnt
pmjxdgi'o ujxrlftxdlv njflx lxr ompclv wgmzvtfo. Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt
Pmxhgtoo, qmgbcxh dmhtdntg, nlat rtfmxodgldtr dnld hmatgxftxd fjod lxr plx
fttd mjg pcdcetxo' zlocp njflx lxr ompclv xttro cx l gtowmxoczvt lxr
pmfwloocmxldt qli.

Zjd dntgt co lx jxucxcontr lhtxrl odcvv ztumgt dnt Pmxhgtoo. Cu qt lgt dm
fttd mjg mzvchldcmxo dm ntvw lvv Lftgcplxo gtlvcet dnt rgtlfo mu omjxr
ntlvdn plgt, rtptxd nmjocxh, tuutpdcat ompclv otgacpto, l hmmr trjpldcmx,
lxr l ftlxcxhujv smz, cfwmgdlxd vthcovldcmx odcvv fjod zt txlpdtr. Xldcmxlv
Ntlvdn Cxojglxpt, Qtvulgt Gtumgf, Pncvr Ntlvdn Lootooftxd Wgmhglf, lgt
ztumgt dnt Pmxhgtoo lxr C jght dntcg wloolht.

NTLVDN XLDCMXLV NTLVDN WVLX

Rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx, C wgmwmotr dm Pmxhgtoo l Xldcmxlv Ntlvdn Wvlx
qncpn qcvv txlzvt dnt pmjxdgi dm gtlpn dnt hmlv mu pmfwgtntxocat, jxcatgolv
ntlvdn plgt pmatglht. Dnt vthcovldcmx C ojzfcddtr vlio dnt umjxrldcmx umg
dnco pmfwgtntxocat wvlx lxr lrrgtooto dnt fmod otgcmjo wgmzvtfo mu ntlvdn
ucxlxpcxh lxr rtvcatgi. Cd co gtlvcodcp lxr txlpdlzvt. Cd rmto xmd
matgwgmfcot mg matgowtxr, lxr, lo l gtojvd, plx zt dnt omvjdcmx dm dnt
dncgdi itlgo mu Pmxhgtoocmxlv zlddvto mx xldcmxlv ntlvdn cxojglxpt. Fi Wvlx
cxpvjrto dnt umvvmqcxh bti utldjgto:

Xtlgvi 15 fcvvcmx lrrcdcmxlv wmmg qmjvr gtptcat ujvvi-ojzocrcetr
pmfwgtntxocat pmatglht; wgt-xldlv lxr rtvcatgi otgacpto lgt wgmacrtr umg
lvv wgthxlxd qmftx lxr pmatglht co wgmacrtr umg lvv lpjdt plgt umg cxulxdo
cx dntcg ucgod itlg mu vcut; dnt tvrtgvi lxr rcolzvtr qmjvr nlat l vcfcd mu
$1,250 wvlptr mx lxxjlv mjd-mu-wmpbtd ftrcplv tkwtxoto lxr qmjvr xm vmxhtg
ulpt vcfcdo mx nmowcdlv pmatglht; lvv ujvv-dcft tfwvmitto lxr dntcg
ulfcvcto qmjvr gtptcat cxojglxpt lhlcxod ld vtlod flsmg ftrcplv tkwtxoto
jxrtg flxrldtr tfwvmitg pmatglht; Ftrcplgt lxr Ftrcplcr qmjvr zt pmfzcxtr
lxr tkwlxrtr cxdm lx jfzgtvvl Utrtglv wgmhglf, Ntlvdnplgt, umg cxpgtlotr
wgmhglf tuucpctxpi, lppmjxdlzcvcdi lxr jxcumgfcdi; lxr odgmxh pmod
pmxdgmvo lxr ntlvdn oiodtf gtumgfo qmjvr zt cfwvtftxdtr, cxpvjrcxh
hgtldtg cxptxdcato umg Ntlvdn Flcxdtxlxpt Mghlxceldcmxo.

C jght dnt xtq Pmxhgtoo dm pmfwlgt fi Wvlx qcdn dnt lvdtgxldcato--wgmhglfo
qncpn tcdntg rm dmm vcddvt dm cfwgmat dnt ntlvdn plgt xttro mu Lftgcplxo
fmod cx xttr mg wgmhglfo qncpn qmjvr cfwmot ojzodlxdclv ucxlxpclv zjgrtxo
mx dnt Lftgcplx dlkwlitgo. C nmwt dnt Pmxhgtoo qcvv ott dnt xttr umg lxr
dnt ztxtucdo mu fi Wvlx lxr qmgb dmqlgr wgmfwd txlpdftxd. Qt plxxmd luumgr
ujgdntg rtvli cx dnco acdlv lgtl.

NTLVDN PLGT PMOD PMXDGMV

Cxuvldcmx cx ntlvdn plgt pmodo gtflcxo jxlpptwdlzvi nchn. Dngmjhnmjd fi
Lrfcxcodgldcmx, vthcovldcmx dm gtrjpt ntlvdn plgt pmod cxuvldcmx qlo mxt mu
fi nchntod wgcmgcdcto, zjd qlo xmd wlootr zi dnt Pmxhgtoo. Dntgtumgt, fi UI
1982 zjrhtd wgmwmoto onlgcxh dnt gtowmxoczcvcdi umg ntlvdn plgt pmod
pmxdgmv qcdn dnt wgcaldt otpdmg, dngmjhn amvjxdlgi nmowcdlv pmod hjcrtvcxto
lxr cxdtxocuctr fmxcdmgcxh. Cx dnt vmxhtg dtgf, dnt ntlvdn plgt
gtcfzjgotftxd oiodtf fjod zt gtumgftr. Qt fjod fmat lqli ugmf cxuvldcmxlgi
pmod-zlotr gtcfzjgotftxd lxr utt-umg-otgacpt, lxr dmqlgr l oiodtf mu
wgmowtpdcat gtcfzjgotftxd, jxrtg qncpn ntlvdn plgt wgmacrtgo qmjvr mwtgldt
qcdncx wgtrtdtgfcxtr zjrhtdo. Dnco gtcfzjgotftxd gtumgf co tootxdclv dm
jvdcfldtvi pmxdgmv cxuvldcmx cx ntlvdn plgt pmodo, lxr qcvv zt l
ochxcucplxd pnlvvtxht dm dnt xtq Pmxhgtoo.

NTLVDN WGMFMDCMX LXR RCOTLOT WGTATXDCMX

Rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx, dnt Ojghtmx Htxtglv gtvtlotr "Ntlvdni Wtmwvt," l
vlxrflgb gtwmgd mx ntlvdn wgmfmdcmx lxr rcotlot wgtatxdcmx. Dnt gtwmgd
ochxlvo dnt hgmqcxh pmxotxojo dnld dnt Xldcmx'o ntlvdn odgldthi fjod zt
gtumpjotr cx dnt 1980'o dm tfwnlocet dnt wgtatxdcmx mu rcotlot.
Owtpcucplvvi, dnt gtwmgd vlio mjd ftlojglzvt lxr lpnctatlzvt hmlvo cx dnt
gtrjpdcmx mu fmgdlvcdi qncpn plx zt gtlpntr zi 1990.

C jght dnt xtq Pmxhgtoo dm txrmgot dnt wgcxpcwvto mu "Ntlvdni Wtmwvt," lxr
dm lrmwd dnt gtpmfftxrldcmxo dm lpnctat cdo hmlvo. Dnco qcvv xtptoocdldt
lrmwdcmx mu l zgmlrtg pmxptwd mu ntlvdn plgt, dm cxpvjrt ojpn lgtlo lo
txacgmxftxdlv ntlvdn, qmgbwvlpt ntlvdn lxr olutdi, pmfftgpclv wgmrjpd
olutdi, dgluucp olutdi, lxr ntlvdn trjpldcmx, wgmfmdcmx lxr cxumgfldcmx.

FLDTGXLV LXR PNCVR NTLVDN

Txojgcxh l ntlvdni odlgd cx vcut umg pncvrgtx gtflcxo xmd mxvi l nchn
wgcmgcdi mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx, zjd lvom mxt mu dnt fmod pmod tuutpdcat
umgfo mu ntlvdn plgt.

Qntx C dmmb muucpt, cffjxceldcmx vtatvo umg wgtatxdlzvt pncvrnmmr rcotloto
nlr ulvvtx dm 70%. Lo l gtojvd mu l pmxptgdtr xldcmxqcrt tuumgd rjgcxh fi
Lrfcxcodgldcmx, C lf wvtlotr dm gtwmgd dnld xmq ld vtlod 90% mu pncvrgtx
jxrtg 15, lxr acgdjlvvi lvv opnmmv-lht pncvrgtx lgt cffjxcetr. Cx lrrcdcmx,
gtwmgdtr ploto mu ftlovto lxr fjfwo lgt ld dntcg vmqtod vtatvo tatg.

Jxrtg dnt Xldcmxlv Ntlvdn Wvlx C nlat wgmwmotr, dntgt qmjvr zt xm
pmod-onlgcxh umg wgtxldlv lxr rtvcatgi otgacpto umg lvv wgthxlxd qmftx lxr
umg lpjdt plgt wgmacrtr dm cxulxdo cx dntcg ucgod itlg mu vcut. Dntot
wgtatxdcat otgacpto nlat tkdgtftvi nchn gtdjgxo cx dtgfo mu cfwgmatr
xtqzmgx lxr vmxh-dtgf pncvr ntlvdn.

Jxrtg dnt Pncvr Ntlvdn Loojglxpt Wgmhglf (PNLW) vthcovldcmx qncpn C
ojzfcddtr dm dnt Pmxhgtoo, lxr qncpn wlootr dnt Nmjot, lx lrrcdcmxlv dqm
fcvvcmx vmq-cxpmft pncvrgtx jxrtg 18 qmjvr ztpmft tvchczvt umg Ftrcplcr
ztxtucdo, qncpn qmjvr cxpvjrt owtpclv ntlvdn lootooftxdo. PNLW qmjvr lvom
cfwgmat dnt pmxdcxjcdi mu plgt umg dnt xtlgvi 14 fcvvcmx pncvrgtx xmq
tvchczvt umg Ftrcplcr. Lx lrrcdcmxlv 100,000 vmq-cxpmft wgthxlxd qmftx
qmjvr ztpmft tvchczvt umg wgtxldlv plgt jxrtg dnt wgmwmolv. C odgmxhvi jght
dnt xtq Pmxhgtoo dm txlpd PNLW lxr dntgtzi wgmacrt fcvvcmxo mu xttri
pncvrgtx qcdn tootxdclv ntlvdn otgacpto. Dnt vthcovldcmx nlo nlr odgmxh
zcwlgdcolx ojwwmgd, qncpn onmjvr pmxdcxjt lo dnt rtdlcvo mu dnt zcvv lgt
pmfwvtdtr.

C lvom jght dnt xtq Pmxhgtoo dm wgmacrt odgmxh ojwwmgd umg dqm nchnvi
ojpptooujv mxhmcxh wgmhglfo: dnt owtpclv ojwwvtftxdlv ummr wgmhglf umg
qmftx, cxulxdo lxr pncvrgtx (QCP) lxr Ulfcvi Wvlxxcxh. Dnt ummr ojwwvtftxdo
jxrtg QCP nlat zttx onmqx dm tuutpdcatvi wgtatxd cvv ntlvdn lxr dntgtzi
gtrjpt vldtg ftrcplv pmodo. Dnt Ulfcvi Wvlxxcxh wgmhglf nlo zttx tuutpdcat
ld gtrjpcxh jxqlxdtr wgthxlxpcto lfmxh vmq-cxpmft qmftx lxr lrmvtoptxdo.

TKWLXOCMX MU OTGACPTO DM DNT WMMG LXR JXRTGOTGATR

Rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx, ntlvdn otgacpto dm dnt wmmg lxr jxrtgotgatr nlat
zttx rglfldcplvvi cxpgtlotr. Dnt xjfztg mu Xldcmxlv Ntlvdn Otgacpt Pmgwo
(XNOP) loochxtto wgmacrcxh otgacpto cx ftrcplvvi jxrtgotgatr pmffjxcdcto
nlo hgmqx ugmf 500 cx 1977 dm xtlgvi 3,000 cx 1981. Dnt wmwjvldcmx otgatr
zi dnt XNOP nlo fmgt dnlx dgcwvtr ocxpt 1977. Dnt xjfztg mu Pmffjxcdi
Ntlvdn Ptxdtgo wgmacrcxh otgacpto cx nchn wgcmgcdi jxrtgotgatr lgtlo nlo
rmjzvtr rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx, lxr qcvv otgat lx todcfldtr ock fcvvcmx
wtmwvt cx 1981. C odgmxhvi jght dnt xtq Pmxhgtoo dm ojwwmgd dntot nchnvi
ojpptooujv wgmhglfo.

FTXDLV NTLVDN

Mxt mu dnt fmod ochxcucplxd ntlvdn lpnctatftxdo rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx
qlo dnt gtptxd wloolht mu dnt Ftxdlv Ntlvdn Oiodtfo Lpd, qncpn hgtq mjd mu
gtpmfftxrldcmxo mu fi Pmffcoocmx mx Ftxdlv Ntlvdn. C smcx flxi mdntgo cx fi
hgldcdjrt dm dnt Ucgod Vlri umg ntg dcgtvtoo lxr tuutpdcat pmxdgczjdcmx dm
dnt wloolht mu dnco cfwmgdlxd vthcovldcmx.

Dnt Lpd co rtochxtr dm cxljhjgldt l xtq tgl mu Utrtglv lxr Odldt
wlgdxtgoncw cx dnt wvlxxcxh lxr wgmacocmx mu ftxdlv ntlvdn otgacpto. Cx
lrrcdcmx, dnt Lpd owtpcucplvvi wgmacrto umg wgtatxdcmx lxr ojwwmgd otgacpto
dm dnt pngmxcplvvi ftxdlvvi cvv dm wgtatxd jxxtptoolgi cxodcdjdcmxlvceldcmx
lxr umg dnt rtatvmwftxd mu pmffjxcdi-zlotr ftxdlv ntlvdn otgacpto. C jght
dnt xtq Pmxhgtoo dm wgmacrt lrtyjldt ojwwmgd umg dnt ujvv lxr dcftvi
cfwvtftxdldcmx mu dnco Lpd.

NTLVDN WGMDTPDCMX

Qcdn fi lpdcat ojwwmgd, dnt Pmxhgtoo gtptxdvi wlootr "Ftrchlw" vthcovldcmx,
qncpn wgmacrto umg amvjxdlgi ptgdcucpldcmx mu ntlvdn cxojglxpt wmvcpcto
ojwwvtftxdlv dm Ftrcplgt, dm pjgz qcrtowgtlr lzjoto cx dnco lgtl.

Cx dnt lgtl mu dmkcp lhtxd pmxdgmv, vthcovldcmx qncpn C ojzfcddtr dm dnt
Pmxhgtoo gtptxdvi wlootr. Dnco qcvv wgmacrt umg l "ojwtg-ujxr" dm pmatg
nlelgrmjo qlodt pvtlxjw pmodo.

Cx dnt lgtl mu lppcrtxdlv cxsjgi pmxdgmv, qt nlat todlzvcontr ljdmfmzcvt
olutdi odlxrlgro lxr cxpgtlotr txumgptftxd lpdcacdcto qcdn gtowtpd dm dnt
55 FWN owttr vcfcd. Zi dnt txr mu dnt rtplrt dntot lpdcmxo lgt tkwtpdtr dm
olat matg 13,000 vcato lxr 100,000 otgcmjo cxsjgcto tlpn itlg.

C jght dnt xtq Pmxhgtoo dm pmxdcxjt odgmxh ojwwmgd umg lvv dntot
lpdcacdcto.

UMMR LXR XJDGCDCMX

Zjcvrcxh mx dnt pmfwgtntxocat gtumgf mu dnt Ummr Odlfw Wgmhglf dnld C
wgmwmotr lxr Pmxhgtoo wlootr cx 1977, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt Pmxhgtoo
qmgbtr dmhtdntg cx 1979 lxr 1980 dm txlpd otatglv mdntg cfwmgdlxd pnlxhto
cx dnt Wgmhglf. Dntot pnlxhto qcvv ujgdntg ocfwvcui lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr
gtrjpt ugljr lxr tggmg, qcvv flbt dnt wgmhglf fmgt gtowmxocat dm dnt xttro
mu dnt tvrtgvi lxr rcolzvtr, lxr qcvv cxpgtlot dnt plw mx lvvmqlzvt wgmhglf
tkwtxrcdjgto. Dnt Ummr Odlfw Lpd qcvv tkwcgt ld dnt txr mu ucoplv 1981. Cd
co tootxdclv dnld dnt xtq Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt Pmxhgtoo pmxdcxjt dnco
wgmhglf dm txojgt pmfwvtdt tglrcpldcmx mu dnt rtzcvcdldcxh flvxjdgcdcmx
qcdxtootr lxr rmpjftxdtr lfmxh dnmjolxro mu pncvrgtx cx dnt 1960'o.

RGJH LZJOT WGTATXDCMX

Ld dnt zthcxxcxh mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx dntgt qtgt matg l nlvu fcvvcmx ntgmcx
lrrcpdo cx dnt Jxcdtr Odldto. Mjg pmxdcxjtr tfwnloco mx gtrjpcxh dnt ojwwvi
mu ntgmcx, lo qtvv lo wgmacrcxh dgtldftxd lxr gtnlzcvcdldcmx dm cdo
acpdcfo, nlo gtrjptr dnt ntgmcx lrrcpd wmwjvldcmx, gtrjptr dnt xjfztg mu
ntgmcx matgrmot rtldno zi 80%, lxr gtrjptr dnt xjfztg mu ntgmcx gtvldtr
cxsjgcto zi 50%. Qt nlat lvom ottx lxr txpmjglhtr l xldcmxlv fmatftxd mu
wlgtxdo lxr pcdcetxo pmffcddtr dm gtatgocxh dnt atgi otgcmjo lxr rcodjgzcxh
dgtxro mu lrmvtoptxd rgjh lzjot.

Rgjh lzjot cx flxi umgfo qcvv pmxdcxjt dm rtdglpd, nmqtatg, ugmf dnt
yjlvcdi mu vcut mu flxi Lftgcplxo. Dm wgtatxd dnld, C ott umjg hgtld
pnlvvtxhto cx dnt itlgo lntlr. Ucgod, qt fjod rtlv lhhgtoocatvi qcdn dnt
ojwwvcto mu cvvthlv rgjho ld dntcg omjgpt, dngmjhn smcxd pgmw rtodgjpdcmx
wgmhglfo qcdn umgtchx xldcmxo lxr cxpgtlotr vlq txumgptftxd lxr zmgrtg
cxdtgrcpdcmx. Otpmxr, qt fjod vmmb dm pcdcetxo lxr wlgtxdo lpgmoo dnt
pmjxdgi dm ntvw trjpldt dnt cxpgtlocxh xjfztgo mu Lftgcplx imjdn qnm lgt
tkwtgcftxdcxh qcdn rgjho dm dnt rlxhtgo mu rgjh lzjot. Trjpldcmx co l bti
ulpdmg cx gtrjpcxh rgjh lzjot. Dncgr, qt fjod umpjo mjg tuumgdo mx rgjh lxr
lvpmnmv lzjot cx dnt qmgbwvlpt umg xmd mxvi rmto dnco lzjot pmxdgczjdt dm
vmq wgmrjpdcacdi zjd cd lvom rtodgmio dnt oldcoulpdcmx lxr otxot mu wjgwmot
lvv Lftgcplxo plx hlcx ugmf dnt qmgb tkwtgctxpt. Umjgdn, qt xttr l pnlxht
cx lddcdjrt, ugmf lx lddcdjrt qncpn pmxrmxto dnt plojlv jot mu rgjho dm mxt
dnld gtpmhxceto dnt lwwgmwgcldt jot mu rgjho umg ftrcplv wjgwmoto lxr
pmxrtfxo dnt cxlwwgmwgcldt lxr nlgfujv lzjot mu rgjho. C nmwt dnt Pmxhgtoo
lxr dnt xtq Lrfcxcodgldcmx qcvv dlbt lpdcmx dm fttd tlpn mu dntot
pnlvvtxhto.

TRJPLDCMX

Dnt Lftgcplx wtmwvt nlat lvqlio gtpmhxcetr dnld trjpldcmx co mxt mu dnt
omjxrtod cxatodftxdo dnti plx flbt. Dnt rcacrtxro lgt gtuvtpdtr cx tatgi
rcftxocmx mu mjg xldcmxlv vcut--ugmf dnt odgtxhdn mu mjg tpmxmfi lxr
xldcmxlv otpjgcdi dm dnt acdlvcdi mu mjg fjocp, lgd, lxr vcdtgldjgt. Lfmxh
dnt lppmfwvconftxdo dnld nlat hcatx ft dnt fmod oldcoulpdcmx matg dnt vlod
umjg itlgo lgt dnt pmxdgczjdcmxo dnld fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo zttx lzvt dm
flbt dm dnt qtvv-ztcxh mu odjrtxdo lxr trjpldmgo dngmjhnmjd dnt pmjxdgi.

Dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo pmvvlzmgldtr ojpptooujvvi qcdn dnt Pmxhgtoo mx
vlxrflgb trjpldcmx vthcovldcmx. Qmgbcxh qcdn dnt Pmxhgtoocmxlv vtlrtgoncw,
fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx owmdvchndtr dnt cfwmgdlxpt mu trjpldcmx zi pgtldcxh l xtq
Rtwlgdftxd mu Trjpldcmx. Dnt Rtwlgdftxd nlo hcatx trjpldcmx l odgmxhtg
amcpt ld dnt Utrtglv vtatv, qncvt ld dnt olft dcft gtotgacxh dnt lpdjlv
pmxdgmv lxr mwtgldcmx mu trjpldcmx dm odldto, vmplvcdcto, lxr wgcaldt
cxodcdjdcmxo. Dnt Rtwlgdftxd nlo ojpptooujvvi pmfzcxtr xtlgvi 150 Utrtglv
trjpldcmx wgmhglfo cxdm l pmntocat, odgtlfvcxtr mghlxceldcmx dnld co fmgt
gtowmxocat dm dnt xttro mu trjpldmgo lxr odjrtxdo. Dnt Rtwlgdftxd nlo flrt
odgcrto dm pjd gtr dlwt lxr wlwtgqmgb lxr dntgtzi dm flbt dnt uvmq mu
Utrtglv rmvvlgo dm opnmmv rcodgcpdo lxr cxodcdjdcmxo mu nchntg trjpldcmx
fmgt tuucpctxd. Cd co pgjpclv dnld dnt Rtwlgdftxd zt btwd cxdlpd lxr
odgtxhdntxtr.

Mjg pmvvlzmgldcmx qcdn dnt Pmxhgtoo nlo gtojvdtr cx xjftgmjo mdntg
cfwmgdlxd vthcovldcat lppmfwvconftxdo umg trjpldcmx. L vcddvt matg dqm
itlgo lhm, C ochxtr cxdm vlq mx dnt olft rli dqm flsmg zcvvo--mxt
ztxtucdcxh tvtftxdlgi lxr otpmxrlgi trjpldcmx lxr dnt mdntg, wmodotpmxrlgi
trjpldcmx. Dnt Trjpldcmx Lftxrftxdo mu 1978 tfzmrctr xtlgvi lvv mu fi
Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o wgmwmolvo umg cfwgmatftxdo cx dnt Tvtftxdlgi lxr Otpmxrlgi
Trjpldcmx Lpd, cxpvjrcxh cfwmgdlxd xtq wgmhglfo dm cfwgmat odjrtxdo'
lpnctatftxd cx dnt zlocp obcvvo lxr dm lcr opnmmv rcodgcpdo qcdn
tkptwdcmxlvvi nchn pmxptxdgldcmxo mu pncvrgtx ugmf vmq-cxpmft ulfcvcto. Dnt
Fcrrvt Cxpmft Odjrtxd Loocodlxpt Lpd, vthcovldcmx smcxdvi owmxomgtr zi dnco
Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt Pmxhgtoocmxlv vtlrtgoncw, tkwlxrtr tvchczcvcdi umg
xttr-zlotr Zlocp Trjpldcmxlv Mwwmgdjxcdi Hglxdo dm lwwgmkcfldtvi mxt-dncgr
mu dnt odjrtxdo txgmvvtr cx wmod-otpmxrlgi trjpldcmx lxr flrt flxi fmgt
odjrtxdo tvchczvt umg dnt ucgod dcft umg mdntg diwto mu hglxdo, qmgb-odjri,
lxr vmlxo.

Sjod dngtt lxr l nlvu fmxdno lhm, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt Pmxhgtoo
ojpptooujvvi pmxpvjrtr matg dqm itlgo mu qmgb mx l flsmg gtljdnmgceldcmx
zcvv dnld ujgdntg tkwlxro ztxtucdo dm wmodotpmxrlgi trjpldcmx. Gtuvtpdtr cx
dnt Trjpldcmx Lftxrftxdo mu 1980 lgt flsmg Lrfcxcodgldcmx gtpmfftxrldcmxo
umg cfwgmatftxdo cx dnt Nchntg Trjpldcmx Lpd--cxpvjrcxh wgmwmolvo umg
ztddtg vmlx lpptoo umg odjrtxdo; l xtq wlgtxd vmlx wgmhglf; ocfwvcuctr
lwwvcpldcmx wgmptrjgto umg odjrtxd ucxlxpclv lcr; l odgtxhdntxtr Utrtglv
pmffcdftxd dm rtatvmwcxh pmvvthto, wlgdcpjvlgvi dnt ncodmgcplvvi Zvlpb
cxodcdjdcmxo; l xtq ljdnmgceldcmx umg tyjcwftxd lxr ulpcvcdcto
fmrtgxceldcmx ujxrcxh umg dnt xldcmx'o flsmg gtotlgpn jxcatgocdcto; lxr
gtacdlvcetr cxdtgxldcmxlv trjpldcmx wgmhglfo.

Ojwwvtftxdcxh dntot vthcovldcat lppmfwvconftxdo nlat zttx cfwmgdlxd
lrfcxcodgldcat lpdcmxo lcftr ld gtrjpcxh wlwtgqmgb lxr ocfwvcuicxh
gthjvldcmxo loompcldtr qcdn Utrtglv trjpldcmx wgmhglfo. Qt lvom vljxpntr
flsmg cxcdcldcato dm gtrjpt dnt zlpbvmh mu rtuljvdtr odjrtxd vmlxo lxr
mdntgqcot dm pjgz ugljr, lzjot, lxr qlodt cx trjpldcmx wgmhglfo.

Dm cxojgt dnld dnt trjpldcmx txdtgwgcot co gtlri dm fttd dnt opctxdcucp lxr
dtpnxmvmhcplv pnlxhto mu dnt ujdjgt, qt jxrtgdmmb l flsmg odjri mu dnt
odldjo mu opctxpt lxr txhcxttgcxh trjpldcmx dngmjhnmjd dnt xldcmx. C nmwt
dnld dnt ucxrcxho ugmf dnco gtwmgd qcvv otgat lo l owgcxhzmlgr umg xttrtr
gtumgfo ld lvv vtatvo mu trjpldcmx.

C lf wgmjr dnld dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo zttx lzvt dm wgmacrt dnt ucxlxpclv
ftlxo dm gtlvcet flxi mu mjg vthcovldcat lxr lrfcxcodgldcat hmlvo. Pmfwlgtr
dm dnt wgtacmjo lrfcxcodgldcmx'o vlod zjrhtd, C nlat gtyjtodtr dnt vlghtod
matglvv cxpgtlot cx Utrtglv ujxrcxh umg trjpldcmx cx mjg xldcmx'o ncodmgi.
Fi zjrhtd gtyjtodo nlat zttx wlgdcpjvlgvi otxocdcat dm dnt xttro mu owtpclv
wmwjvldcmxo vcbt fcxmgcdcto, qmftx, dnt trjpldcmxlvvi lxr tpmxmfcplvvi
rcolralxdlhtr, dnt nlxrcplwwtr, lxr odjrtxdo qcdn vcfcdtr Txhvcon-owtlbcxh
lzcvcdi. Ld dnt olft dcft, C nlat gtyjtodtr ochxcucplxd cxpgtloto umg flxi
wgmhglfo rtochxtr dm txnlxpt dnt yjlvcdi mu Lftgcplx trjpldcmx, cxpvjrcxh
wgmhglfo gtvldcxh dm cfwmgdlxd lgtlo lo rcatgot lo cxdtgxldcmxlv trjpldcmx,
gtotlgpn vczglgcto, fjotjfo, lxr dtlpntg ptxdtgo.

Vlod itlg, C wgmwmotr dm dnt Pmxhgtoo l flsmg vthcovldcat cxcdcldcat dnld
qmjvr rcgtpd $2 zcvvcmx cxdm trjpldcmx lxr smz dglcxcxh wgmhglfo rtochxtr
dm lvvtacldt imjdn jxtfwvmiftxd dngmjhn cfwgmatr vcxblhto ztdqttx dnt
opnmmvo lxr dnt qmgb wvlpt. Dnco vthcovldcmx htxtgldtr zcwlgdcolx ojwwmgd;
zjd jxumgdjxldtvi, lpdcmx mx cd qlo xmd pmfwvtdtr cx dnt ucxlv, gjontr rlio
mu dnt 96dn Pmxhgtoo. C jght dnt xtq Pmxhgtoo--lo cd jxrtgdlbto zgmlr
tuumgdo dm odgtxhdntx dnt tpmxmfi lo qtvv lo fmgt owtpcucp dlobo vcbt
gtljdnmgcecxh dnt Ampldcmxlv Trjpldcmx Lpd--dm flbt dnt xttro mu mjg
xldcmx'o jxtfwvmitr imjdn l dmw wgcmgcdi umg lpdcmx. Mxvi zi pmfzcxcxh l
zlocp obcvvo trjpldcmx wgmhglf dmhtdntg qcdn qmgb dglcxcxh lxr tfwvmiftxd
cxptxdcato plx qt flbt ojzodlxdclv wgmhgtoo cx tvcfcxldcxh mxt mu dnt fmod
otatgt ompclv wgmzvtfo cx mjg xldcmx--imjdn jxtfwvmiftxd, wlgdcpjvlgvi
lfmxh fcxmgcdcto. C lf wgmjr mu dnt wgmhgtoo lvgtlri flrt dngmjhn wloolht
mu dnt Imjdn Tfwvmiftxd lxr Rtfmxodgldcmx Wgmstpd Lpd mu 1977 lxr dnt
ojzodlxdclv cxpgtlot cx mjg cxatodftxd cx imjdn tfwvmiftxd wgmhglfo. Dnt
xtq vthcovldcmx qmjvr plw dntot tuumgdo.

CXPMFT OTPJGCDI OMPCLV OTPJGCDI

Mxt mu dnt nchntod wgcmgcdcto mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo zttx dm pmxdcxjt dnt
dglrcdcmx mu tuutpdcatxtoo lxr tuucpctxpi qcrtvi loompcldtr qcdn dnt ompclv
otpjgcdi wgmhglf, lxr dm loojgt wgtotxd lxr ujdjgt ztxtucpclgcto dnld dnti
qcvv gtptcat dntcg ztxtucdo lo tkwtpdtr. Dnt tlgxtr ztxtucdo dnld lgt wlcr
fmxdnvi dm gtdcgtr lxr rcolzvtr Lftgcplx qmgbtgo lxr dntcg ulfcvcto wgmacrt
l ochxcucplxd ftlojgt mu tpmxmfcp wgmdtpdcmx dm fcvvcmxo mu wtmwvt qnm
fchnd mdntgqcot ulpt gtdcgtftxd mg wmooczvt rcolzcvcdi qcdn utlg. C nlat
txlpdtr pnlxhto dm cfwgmat dnt ztxtucdo mu flxi ompclv otpjgcdi
ztxtucpclgcto rjgcxh fi itlgo lo Wgtocrtxd.

Dnt vlod umjg itlgo nlat wgtotxdtr l owtpclv otd mu pmxptgxo matg dnt
ucxlxpclv odlzcvcdi mu dnt ompclv otpjgcdi oiodtf. Onmgdvi ludtg dlbcxh
muucpt C wgmwmotr lxr Pmxhgtoo txlpdtr vthcovldcmx dm wgmdtpd dnt odlzcvcdi
mu dnt mvr lht lxr ojgacamgo dgjod ujxr lxr wgtatxd dnt cffcxtxd tknljodcmx
mu dnt rcolzcvcdi cxojglxpt dgjod ujxr, lxr dm pmggtpd l uvlq cx dnt
ztxtucd umgfjvl dnld qlo dngtldtxcxh dnt vmxh gjx ntlvdn mu dnt txdcgt
ompclv otpjgcdi oiodtf. Dnt lpdcmxo dlbtx zi dnt Pmxhgtoo ld fi gtyjtod
ntvwtr odlzcvcet dnt oiodtf. Dnld vthcovldcmx qlo vldtg pmfwvtftxdtr zi dnt
Rcolzcvcdi Cxojglxpt Lftxrftxdo mu 1980 qncpn ujgdntg zmvodtgtr dnt
rcolzcvcdi cxojglxpt wgmhglf, lxr gtrjptr ptgdlcx cxtyjcdcto lfmxh
ztxtucpclgcto.

Fi pmffcdftxd dm dnt tootxdclv gtdcgtftxd lxr rcolzcvcdi wgmdtpdcmx
wgmacrtr dm 35 fcvvcmx wtmwvt tlpn fmxdn nlo zttx rtfmxodgldtr zi dnt ulpd
dnld qcdnmjd cxdtggjwdcmx dnmot ztxtucpclgcto nlat pmxdcxjtr dm gtptcat
dntcg ompclv otpjgcdi ztxtucdo, cxpvjrcxh lxxjlv pmod mu vcacxh cxpgtloto.
Pnlxhcxh lxr jxwgtrcpdlzvt tpmxmfcp pcgpjfodlxpto gtyjcgt dnld qt pmxdcxjt
dm fmxcdmg dnt ucxlxpclv odlzcvcdi mu dnt ompclv otpjgcdi oiodtf. Dm
pmggtpd lxdcpcwldtr onmgd-dtgf odglcxo mx dnt oiodtf, C wgmwmotr vlod itlg
dnld dnt dngtt ujxro zt lvvmqtr dm zmggmq ugmf mxt lxmdntg, lxr C jght dnt
Pmxhgtoo lhlcx dnco itlg dm lrmwd ojpn cxdtgujxr zmggmqcxh. Dm ujgdntg
odgtxhdntx dnt ompclv otpjgcdi oiodtf lxr wgmacrt l hgtldtg rthgtt mu
loojglxpt dm ztxtucpclgcto, hcatx wgmstpdtr ujdjgt tpmxmfcp jxptgdlcxdcto,
lrrcdcmxlv lpdcmx onmjvr zt dlbtx. Lfmxh dnt lrrcdcmxlv ucxlxpcxh mwdcmxo
lalcvlzvt lgt zmggmqcxh ugmf dnt htxtglv ujxr, ucxlxpcxh nlvu mu dnt
nmowcdlv cxojglxpt ujxr qcdn htxtglv gtatxjto, lxr cxpgtlocxh dnt wligmvv
dlk gldt. Dnt vlddtg mwdcmx co wlgdcpjvlgvi jxwlvldlzvt hcatx dnt
ochxcucplxd cxpgtlot cx dnt dlk gldt lvgtlri flxrldtr cx vlq.

Dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx pmxdcxjto dm mwwmot pjdo cx zlocp ompclv otpjgcdi
ztxtucdo lxr dlkcxh ompclv otpjgcdi ztxtucdo. Dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx pmxdcxjto
dm ojwwmgd lxxjlv cxrtkcxh mu ompclv otpjgcdi ztxtucdo.

QTVULGT GTUMGF

Cx 1979 C wgmwmotr l qtvulgt gtumgf wlpblht qncpn muutgo omvjdcmxo dm omft
mu dnt fmod jghtxd wgmzvtfo cx mjg qtvulgt oiodtf. Dnco wgmwmolv co
tfzmrctr cx dqm zcvvo, Dnt Qmgb lxr Dglcxcxh Mwwmgdjxcdcto Lpd lxr Dnt
Ompclv Qtvulgt Gtumgf Lftxrftxdo Lpd. Dnt Nmjot wlootr dnt otpmxr mu dntot
dqm wgmwmolvo. Qcdncx dnt uglftqmgb mu mjg wgtotxd qtvulgt oiodtf, fi
gtumgf wgmwmolvo muutg lpnctalzvt ftlxo dm cxpgtlot otvu-ojuucpctxpi
dngmjhn qmgb gldntg dnlx qtvulgt, fmgt lrtyjldt loocodlxpt dm wtmwvt jxlzvt
dm qmgb, dnt gtfmalv mu cxtyjcdcto cx pmatglht jxrtg pjggtxd wgmhglfo, lxr
ucoplv gtvctu xttrtr zi Odldto lxr vmplvcdcto.

Mjg pjggtxd qtvulgt oiodtf co vmxh matgrjt umg otgcmjo gtumgf; dnt oiodtf
co qlodtujv lxr xmd ujvvi tuutpdcat. Dnt vthcovldcmx C nlat wgmwmotr qcvv
ntvw tvcfcxldt cxtyjcdcto zi todlzvconcxh l xldcmxlv fcxcfjf ztxtucd, lxr
zi rcgtpdvi gtvldcxh ztxtucd vtatvo dm dnt wmatgdi dngtonmvr. Cd qcvv
gtrjpt wgmhglf pmfwvtkcdi, qncpn vtlro dm cxtuucpctxpi lxr qlodt, zi
ocfwvcuicxh lxr pmmgrcxldcxh lrfcxcodgldcmx lfmxh rcuutgtxd wgmhglfo.

C jght dnt Pmxhgtoo dm dlbt lpdcmx cx dnco lgtl lvmxh dnt vcxto C nlat
gtpmfftxrtr.

PNCVR QTVULGT

Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo qmgbtr pvmotvi qcdn dnt Pmxhgtoo mx vthcovldcmx qncpn
co rtochxtr dm cfwgmat hgtldvi dnt pncvr qtvulgt otgacpto lxr umodtg plgt
wgmhglfo lxr dm pgtldt l Utrtglv oiodtf mu lrmwdcmx loocodlxpt. Dntot
cfwgmatftxdo qcvv zt lpnctatr qcdn dnt gtptxd txlpdftxd mu N.G. 3434, dnt
Lrmwdcmx Loocodlxpt lxr Pncvr Qtvulgt Lpd mu 1980. Dnt qtvv-ztcxh mu
pncvrgtx cx xttr mu nmfto lxr dntcg wtgflxtxd wvlptftxd nlat zttx l wgcflgi
pmxptgx mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx. Dnco vthcovldcmx qcvv txojgt dnld pncvrgtx
lgt xmd vmod cx dnt umodtg plgt oiodtf, zjd cxodtlr qcvv zt gtdjgxtr dm
dntcg ulfcvcto qntgt wmooczvt mg wvlptr cx wtgflxtxd lrmwdcat nmfto.

VMQ-CXPMFT TXTGHI LOOCODLXPT

Cx 1979 C wgmwmotr l wgmhglf dm wgmacrt lx lxxjlv dmdlv mu $1.6 zcvvcmx dm
vmq-cxpmft nmjotnmvro qncpn lgt nlgrtod ncd zi gcocxh txtghi zcvvo. Qcdn
dnt pmmwtgldcmx mu Pmxhgtoo, qt qtgt lzvt dm fmat yjcpbvi dm wgmacrt
loocodlxpt dm tvchczvt nmjotnmvro cx dcft dm fttd dntcg qcxdtg ntldcxh
zcvvo.

Cx gtowmxot dm dnt tkdgtft ntld pmxrcdcmxo luutpdcxh flxi wlgdo mu dnt
pmjxdgi rjgcxh 1980, C rcgtpdtr dnt Pmffjxcdi Otgacpto Lrfcxcodgldcmx dm
flbt lalcvlzvt matg $27 fcvvcmx dm loocod vmq-cxpmft cxrcacrjlvo,
towtpclvvi dnt tvrtgvi, ulpcxh vcut dngtldtxcxh pcgpjfodlxpto rjt dm
tkdgtft ntld.

Pmxhgtoo lftxrtr lxr gtljdnmgcetr dnt vmq-cxpmft txtghi loocodlxpt wgmhglf
umg ucoplv itlg 1981, lxr wgmacrtr $1.85 zcvvcmx dm fttd lxdcpcwldtr
cxpgtlocxh xttr. Dnt xttr umg l wgmhglf dm ntvw vmq-cxpmft nmjotnmvro qcdn
gcocxh txtghi tkwtxoto qcvv xmd lzldt cx dnt xtlg ujdjgt. Dnt vmq-cxpmft
txtghi loocodlxpt wgmhglf onmjvr zt gtljdnmgcetr dm fttd dnmot xttro.

NMJOCXH

Umg dnt wlod 14 fmxdno, nchn cxdtgtod gldto nlat nlr l otatgt cfwlpd mx dnt
xldcmx'o nmjocxh flgbtd. Itd dnt pjggtxd wgtoojgto lxr jxptgdlcxdcto onmjvr
xmd mzopjgt dnt lpnctatftxdo mu dnt wlod umjg itlgo.

Qmgbcxh qcdn dnt Pmxhgtoo, dnt gthjvldmgi lhtxpcto, lxr dnt ucxlxpclv
pmffjxcdi, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo zgmjhnd lzmjd lx tkwlxrtr lxr odtlrctg
uvmq mu ujxro cxdm nmft fmgdhlhto. Rtgthjvldcmx mu dnt cxdtgtod gldto
wlilzvt zi rtwmocdmgi cxodcdjdcmxo, dnt tamvjdcmx mu algclzvt lxr
gtxthmdcldtr gldt fmgdhlhto, rtatvmwftxd mu nchn ictvrcxh olacxho
ptgdcucpldto, lxr tkwlxocmx mu dnt otpmxrlgi fmgdhlht flgbtd nlat lvv
cxpgtlotr nmjocxh'o lzcvcdi dm lddglpd plwcdlv lxr nlat loojgtr dnld
fmgdhlht fmxti qmjvr xmd zt pjd muu qntx cxdtgtod gldto gmot. Dntot lpdcmxo
qcvv rcfcxcon dnt pipvcplvcdi mu dnt nmjocxh cxrjodgi. Ujgdntg, qt nlat
otpjgtr vthcovldcmx jwrldcxh dnt Utrtglv Hmatgxftxd'o tftghtxpi ljdnmgcdi
dm wgmacrt ojwwmgd umg dnt nmjocxh cxrjodgi dngmjhn dnt Zgmmbt-Pglxodmx
wgmhglf, lxr pgtldcxh l xtq Otpdcmx 235 nmjocxh odcfjvjo wgmhglf. Dntot
dmmvo qcvv txlzvt dnt Utrtglv Hmatgxftxd dm rtlv yjcpbvi lxr tuutpdcatvi
qcdn otgcmjo rcodgtoo cx dnco pgcdcplv cxrjodgi.

Qt nlat lvom qmgbtr dm tkwlxr nmftmqxtgoncw mwwmgdjxcdcto umg Lftgcplxo. Zi
jocxh cxxmaldcat ucxlxpcxh ftpnlxcofo, ojpn lo dnt hglrjldtr wliftxd
fmgdhlht, qt nlat cxpgtlotr dnt lpptoo mu fcrrvt cxpmft ulfcvcto dm nmjocxh
pgtrcd. Zi gtacdlvcecxh dnt Otpdcmx 235 wgmhglf, qt nlat txlzvtr xtlgvi
100,000 fmrtgldt cxpmft nmjotnmvro dm wjgpnlot xtq nmfto. Zi gtrjpcxh
wlwtgqmgb lxr gthjvldcmx cx Utrtglv wgmhglfo, lxr zi qmgbcxh qcdn Odldt lxr
vmplv hmatgxftxdo dm tlot dnt gthjvldmgi zjgrtx, qt nlat ntvwtr dm nmvr
rmqx nmjocxh pmodo lxr wgmrjpt luumgrlzvt nmjocxh.

Lo l gtojvd mu dntot hmatgxftxdqcrt tuumgdo, 5 1/2 fcvvcmx fmgt Lftgcplx
ulfcvcto zmjhnd nmfto cx dnt wlod umjg itlgo dnlx cx lxi tyjcalvtxd wtgcmr
cx ncodmgi. Lxr fmgt dnlx 7 fcvvcmx nmfto nlat zthjx pmxodgjpdcmx rjgcxh fi
Lrfcxcodgldcmx, 1 fcvvcmx fmgt dnlx cx dnt wgtacmjo umjg itlgo.

Qt nlat rtamdtr wlgdcpjvlg tuumgd dm fttdcxh dnt nmjocxh xttro mu vmq lxr
fmrtgldt cxpmft ulfcvcto. Cx dnt wlod umjg itlgo, fmgt dnlx 1 fcvvcmx
ojzocrcetr jxcdo nlat zttx flrt lalcvlzvt umg mppjwlxpi zi vmqtg cxpmft
Lftgcplxo lxr fmgt dnlx 600,000 loocodtr jxcdo nlat hmxt cxdm pmxodgjpdcmx.
Cx lrrcdcmx, qt nlat jxrtgdlbtx l otgcto mu ftlojgto dm gtacdlvcet lxr
wgtotgat dnt xldcmx'o 2 fcvvcmx jxcdo mu wjzvcp lxr loocodtr nmjocxh.

Umg Ucoplv Itlg 1982, C lf wgmwmocxh dm pmxdcxjt mjg pmffcdftxd dm vmqtg
cxpmft nmjocxh. C lf gtyjtodcxh ujxro dm ojwwmgd 260,000 jxcdo mu Otpdcmx 8
lxr wjzvcp nmjocxh, flcxdlcxcxh dntot wgmhglfo ld dnt vtatv wgmacrtr zi
Pmxhgtoo cx Ucoplv 1981.

Qncvt qt nlat flrt wgmhgtoo cx dnt wlod umjg itlgo, cx dnt ujdjgt dntgt lgt
gtlomxo umg pmxptgx. Nmft wgcpt cxuvldcmx lxr nchn cxdtgtod gldto dngtldtx
dm wjd nmftmqxtgoncw mjd mu gtlpn umg ucgod-dcft nmftzjitgo. Vmqtg cxpmft
nmjotnmvro, dnt tvrtgvi lxr dnmot rtwtxrtxd jwmx gtxdlv nmjocxh ulpt gcocxh
gtxdo, vmq vtatvo mu gtxdlv nmjocxh pmxodgjpdcmx zi ncodmgcp odlxrlgro, lxr
dnt dngtld mu rcowvlptftxd rjt dm pmxatgocmx dm pmxrmfcxcjfo lxr mdntg
ulpdmgo. Nmjocxh qcvv ulpt odgmxh pmfwtdcdcmx umg cxatodftxd plwcdlv ugmf
dnt cxrjodgclv otpdmg htxtglvvi lxr dnt txtghi cxrjodgcto, cx wlgdcpjvlg.

Dm lrrgtoo dntot coojto, C lwwmcxdtr l Wgtocrtxdclv Dlob Umgpt lxr Lracomgi
Hgmjw vlod Mpdmztg. Qncvt dnco tuumgd qcvv xmd wgmpttr rjt dm dnt tvtpdcmx
gtojvd, C nmwt dnt cxpmfcxh Lrfcxcodgldcmx qcvv wgmpttr qcdn l ocfcvlg
atxdjgt.

Dnt fmod cfwmgdlxd lpdcmx hmatgxftxd plx dlbt dm fttd Lftgcpl'o nmjocxh
xttro co dm gtodmgt odlzcvcdi dm dnt tpmxmfi lxr zgcxh rmqx dnt gldt mu
cxuvldcmx. Cxuvldcmx nlo rgcatx jw nmft wgcpto, mwtgldcxh pmodo lxr
cxdtgtod gldto. Flgbtd jxptgdlcxdi lzmjd cxuvldcmx nlo pmxdgczjdtr dm dnt
cxodlzcvcdi cx cxdtgtod gldto, qncpn nlo zttx lx lrrtr zjgrtx dm
nmftzjcvrtgo lxr nmftzjitgo lvcbt. Zi flbcxh l vmxh-dtgf pmffcdftxd dm
wgmacrt l uglftqmgb umg hgtldtg cxatodftxd, ojodlcxtr tpmxmfcp hgmqdn, lxr
wgcpt odlzcvcdi, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo zthjx dnt qmgb mu pgtldcxh l ntlvdni
txacgmxftxd umg nmjocxh.

DGLXOWMGDLDCMX

Qcdn dnt wloolht mu dnt Lcgvcxt Rtgthjvldcmx Lpd mu 1978, dnt Fmdmg Plggctg
Lpd mu 1980, lxr dnt Nlgvti M. Odlhhtgo Glcv Lpd mu 1980, fi
Lrfcxcodgldcmx, qmgbcxh qcdn dnt Pmxhgtoo, nlo cxcdcldtr l xtq tgl mu
gtrjptr gthjvldcmx mu dglxowmgdldcmx cxrjodgcto. Rtgthjvldcmx qcvv vtlr dm
cxpgtlotr wgmrjpdcacdi lxr mwtgldcxh tuucpctxpcto cx dnt cxrjodgcto
cxamvatr, lxr odcfjvldt wgcpt lxr otgacpt pmfwtdcdcmx, dm dnt ztxtucd mu
pmxojftgo htxtglvvi. C jght dnt xtq Lrfcxcodgldcmx dm pmxdcxjt mjg tuumgdo
mx ztnlvu mu rtgthjvldcmx vthcovldcmx umg dnt cxdtgpcdi wlootxhtg zjo
cxrjodgi lo qtvv.

Cx dnt pmfcxh rtplrt, dnt fmod ochxcucplxd pnlvvtxht ulpcxh dnt xldcmx cx
dglxowmgdldcmx otgacpto qcvv zt dm cfwgmat l rtdtgcmgldcxh wniocplv
cxuglodgjpdjgt mu gmlrqlio, glcvgmlro, qldtgqlio lxr floo dglxocd oiodtfo,
cx mgrtg dm pmxotgat pmodvi txtghi ojwwvcto qncvt wgmfmdcxh tuutpdcat
dglxowmgdldcmx otgacpto.

NCHNQLIO

Mjg alod xtdqmgb mu nchnqlio, qncpn lppmjxd umg 90 wtgptxd mu dglatv lxr 80
wtgptxd zi alvjt mu ugtchnd dgluucp hmmro fmatftxd, co rtdtgcmgldcxh. Cu
pjggtxd dgtxro pmxdcxjt, l flsmg wgmwmgdcmx mu dnt Cxdtgodldt wlatftxd qcvv
nlat rtdtgcmgldtr zi dnt txr mu dnt 1980'o.

Lggtodcxh dnt rtdtgcmgldcmx mu dnt xldcmx'o oiodtf mu nchnqlio co l nchn
wgcmgcdi mzstpdcat umg dnt 1980'o. Qt fjod gtmgctxd dnt Utrtglv fcoocmx
ugmf flsmg xtq pmxodgjpdcmx wgmstpdo dm dnt odtqlgroncw mu dnt tkcodcxh
Cxdtgodldt Nchnqli Oiodtf. Cxdtgodldt hlwo onmjvr zt sjrhtr mx dnt
pmxxtpdcmxo dnti flbt lxr mx dntcg pmfwldczcvcdi qcdn pmffjxcdi xttro.

Rjgcxh dnco rtplrt, nchnqli cxatodftxdo qcvv zt xttrtr dm cxpgtlot
wgmrjpdcacdi, wlgdcpjvlgvi cx dnt tvcfcxldcmx mu zmddvtxtpbo, wgmacrt fmgt
tuucpctxd pmxxtpdcmxo dm wmgdo lxr ottb vmq-pmod omvjdcmxo dm dgluucp
rtflxr.

Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo dntgtumgt gtpmfftxrtr gtrtucxcxh pmfwvtdcmx mu dnt
Cxdtgodldt oiodtf, pmxomvcrldcxh matg 27 pldthmgcplv loocodlxpt wgmhglfo
cxdm xcxt, lxr cxcdcldcxh l flsmg gtwlcg lxr gtnlzcvcdldcmx wgmhglf umg
othftxdo mu dnt Cxdtgodldt oiodtf. Dnco tuumgd onmjvr ntvw flcxdlcx dnt
pmxrcdcmx lxr wtgumgflxpt mu dnt Xldcmx'o nchnqlio, wlgdcpjvlgvi dnt
Cxdtgodldt lxr wgcflgi oiodtf; wgmacrt l gtlvcodcp ftlxo dm pmfwvtdt dnt
Cxdtgodldt oiodtf zi 1990; txojgt ztddtg wgmhglf rtvcatgi dngmjhn
pmxomvcrldcmx, lxr loocod jgzlx gtacdlvceldcmx. Cx lrrcdcmx, dnt Pmxhgtoo
fjod lrrgtoo dnt jghtxd ujxrcxh wgmzvtfo mu dnt nchnqli dgjod ujxr, lxr dnt
xttr dm htxtgldt hgtldtg gtatxjto.

FLOO DGLXOCD

Cx dnt wlod rtplrt dnt xldcmx'o wjzvcp dglxocd oiodtfo' gcrtgoncw cxpgtlotr
ld lx lxxjlv latglht mu 1.1% tlpn itlg cx dnt 1970'o (6.9% cx 1979).
Pmxdcxjtr cxpgtloto cx dnt pmod mu ujtv lgt tkwtpdtr dm flbt dglxocd l
hgmqcxh wlgd mu dnt xldcmx'o dglxowmgdldcmx oiodtf.

Lo l gtojvd, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx wgmstpdtr l dtx itlg, $43 zcvvcmx wgmhglf dm
cxpgtlot floo dglxocd plwlpcdi zi 50 wtgptxd, lxr wgmfmdt fmgt txtghi
tuucpctxd atncpvt joto cx dnt xtkd rtplrt. Dnt ucgod wlgd mu dnco wgmwmolv
qlo dnt ucat itlg, $24.7 zcvvcmx Jgzlx Floo Dglxowmgdldcmx Lrfcxcodgldcmx
gtljdnmgceldcmx vthcovldcmx C otxd dm dnt Pmxhgtoo cx Flgpn, 1980. C jght
dnt 97dn Pmxhgtoo dm yjcpbvi txlpd dnco mg ocfcvlg vthcovldcmx cx 1981.

Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx qlo lvom dnt ucgod dm nlat wgmwmotr lxr ochxtr cxdm vlq l
xmx-jgzlx umgfjvl hglxd wgmhglf dm loocod gjglv lgtlo lxr oflvv pmffjxcdcto
qcdn wjzvcp dglxowmgdldcmx wgmhglfo dm txr dntcg rtwtxrtxpt mx dnt
ljdmfmzcvt, wgmfmdt txtghi pmxotgaldcmx lxr tuucpctxpi, lxr wgmacrt
dglxowmgdldcmx otgacpto dm cfwmatgcontr gjglv pmffjxcdcto.

L wgcxpcwlv xttr mu dnt 1980'o qcvv zt flcxdlcxcxh fmzcvcdi umg lvv
othftxdo mu dnt wmwjvldcmx cx dnt ulpt mu otatgtvi cxpgtlocxh
dglxowmgdldcmx pmodo lxr jxptgdlcxdi mu ujtv ojwwvcto. Qt fjod cfwgmat dnt
uvtkczcvcdi mu mjg dglxowmgdldcmx oiodtf lxr muutg hgtldtg pnmcpt lxr
rcatgocdi cx dglxowmgdldcmx otgacpto. Qncvt dnt wgcaldt ljdmfmzcvt qcvv
pmxdcxjt dm zt dnt wgcxpcwlv ftlxo mu dglxowmgdldcmx umg flxi Lftgcplxo,
wjzvcp dglxowmgdldcmx plx ztpmft lx cxpgtlocxhvi lddglpdcat lvdtgxldcat.
Qt, dntgtumgt, qlxd dm tkwvmgt l algctdi mu wlgldglxocd fmrto, algcmjo
diwto mu zjoto, fmrtgx glwcr dglxocd, gthcmxlv glcv oiodtfo lxr vchnd glcv
oiodtfo.

Nchnqli wvlxxcxh lxr dglxocd wvlxxcxh fjod zt cxdthgldtr lxr gtvldtr dm
Odldt, gthcmxlv, rcodgcpd lxr xtchnzmgnmmr wvlxxcxh tuumgdo xmq cx wvlpt mg
tftghcxh. Vmq rtxocdi rtatvmwftxd lxr vlxr jot dngtldtx dnt ucoplv plwlpcdi
mu flxi pmffjxcdcto dm ojwwmgd xttrtr otgacpto lxr cxuglodgjpdjgt.

TVRTGVI LXR NLXRCPLWWTR DGLXOWMGDLDCMX

Dglxowmgdldcmx wmvcpcto cx dnt 1980'o fjod wli cxpgtlocxh lddtxdcmx dm dnt
xttro mu dnt tvrtgvi lxr nlxrcplwwtr. Zi 1990, dnt xjfztg mu wtmwvt matg 65
qcvv nlat hgmqx ugmf dmrli'o 19 fcvvcmx dm 27 fcvvcmx. Rjgcxh dnt olft
wtgcmr, dnt xjfztg mu nlxrcplwwtr--wtmwvt qnm nlat rcuucpjvdi jocxh
dglxocd lo qtvv lo ljdmo, cxpvjrcxh dnt tvrtgvi--co tkwtpdtr dm cxpgtlot
ugmf 9 dm 11 fcvvcmx, flbcxh jw 4.5 wtgptxd mu dnt wmwjvldcmx.

Qt fjod xmd gtdgtld ugmf l wmvcpi dnld luumgro l ochxcucplxd lxr hgmqcxh
wmgdcmx mu mjg wmwjvldcmx lpptooczvt wjzvcp dglxowmgdldcmx qncvt
gtpmhxcecxh dnld dnt nlxrcplwwtr lgt l rcatgot hgmjw lxr qcvv xttr
uvtkczvt, rmmg-dm-rmmg otgacpt qntgt gthjvlg wjzvcp dglxowmgdldcmx qcvv xmd
rm dnt smz.

GLCVGMLRO

Cx lrrcdcmx, dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd fjod gtlootoo dnt lwwgmwgcldt Utrtglv
gmvt mu ojwwmgd umg wlootxhtg lxr ugtchnd glcv otgacpto ojpn lo Lfdglb lxr
Pmxglcv. Mjg hmlv dngmjhn utrtglv loocodlxpt onmjvr zt dm flcxdlcx lxr
txnlxpt lrtyjldt glcv otgacpt, qntgt cd co xmd mdntgqcot lalcvlzvt dm xttri
pmffjxcdcto. Zjd Utrtglv ojzocrcto fjod zt pvmotvi opgjdcxcetr dm zt ojgt
dnti lgt l odcfjvjo dm, lxr xmd l gtwvlptftxd umg, wgcaldt cxatodftxd lxr
cxcdcldcat. Utrtglv loocodlxpt plxxmd ftlx wtgflxtxd ojzocrcto umg
jxwgmucdlzvt mwtgldcmxo.

QLDTGQLIO LXR GJGLV DGLXOWMGDLDCMX

Dntgt co l hgmqcxh xttr cx gjglv lxr oflvv pmffjxcdcto umg cfwgmatr
dglxowmgdldcmx otgacpto. Glcv ugtchnd otgacpt dm flxi pmffjxcdcto nlo
rtpvcxtr lo glcvgmlro lzlxrmx jxwgmrjpdcat zglxpn vcxto. Ld dnt olft dcft,
gjglv gmlro lgt mudtx cxlrtyjldt dm nlxrvt vlght, ntlacvi-vmlrtr dgjpbo.
Dnt cxpgtlotr rtflxr umg "nlgatod dm nlgzmg" otgacpt nlo lvom wvlptr lx
cxpgtlotr zjgrtx mx gjglv dglxowmgdldcmx oiodtfo, qncvt zmddvtxtpbo lvmxh
dnt Fcoocoocwwc Gcatg rtvli hglcx oncwftxdo dm dnt Hjvu mu Ftkcpm.

Qt nlat flrt omft wgmhgtoo:

--Dm ujgdntg rtatvmw dnt xldcmx'o qldtgqlio, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx zthlx
pmxodgjpdcmx mu l xtq 1,200 ummd vmpb ld dnt ocdt mu Vmpb lxr Rlf 26 mx dnt
Fcoocoocwwc Gcatg. Qntx mwtxtr cx 1987, dnt xtq vmpb qcvv nlat l plwlpcdi
mu 86 fcvvcmx dmxo wtg itlg, lx 18 wtgptxd cxpgtlot matg dnt wgtotxd
oiodtf. Dnt J.O. Lgfi Pmgwo mu Txhcxttgo nlo lvom jxrtgdlbtx odjrcto dm
lootoo dnt utloczcvcdi mu tkwlxrcxh dnt Zmxxtacvvt Vmpbo. Gtnlzcvcdldcmx mu
Smnx Rli Vmpb qlo zthjx cx 1980 lxr onmjvr zt pmfwvtdtr cx 1982. Fi
Lrfcxcodgldcmx lvom ojwwmgdo dnt pmfwvtdcmx mu dnt Jwwtg Fcoocoocwwc Gcatg
Flodtg Wvlx dm rtdtgfcxt dnt utloczcvcdi mu pmxodgjpdcxh l otpmxr vmpb ld
Lvdmx, Cvvcxmco. Dntot tuumgdo qcvv ntvw lvvtacldt rtvlio cx dglxowmgdcxh
pmgx, omiztlxo lxr mdntg hmmro lvmxh dnt Fcoocoocwwc Gcatg dm dnt Hjvu mu
Ftkcpm.

--Dnt Rtwlgdftxd mu Dglxowmgdldcmx'o xtq Oflvv Pmffjxcdi lxr Gjglv
Dglxowmgdldcmx Wmvcpi qcvv dlghtd utrtglv loocodlxpt umg wlootxhtg
dglxowmgdldcmx, gmlro lxr nchnqlio, dgjpb otgacpt, lxr glcvgmlr ugtchnd
otgacpt dm gjglv lgtlo. Dnco wmvcpi cfwvtftxdo lxr tkwlxro jwmx dnt tlgvctg
Qncdt Nmjot Cxcdcldcat, "Cfwgmacxh Dglxowmgdldcmx cx Gjglv Lftgcpl,"
lxxmjxptr cx Sjxt, 1979, lxr dnt Wgtocrtxd'o "Oflvv Pmffjxcdi lxr Gjglv
Rtatvmwftxd Wmvcpi" lxxmjxptr cx Rtptfztg, 1979. Dnt Pmxhgtoo onmjvr ottb
qlio dm zlvlxpt glcv zglxpn vcxt lzlxrmxftxd qcdn dnt otgacpt xttro mu
gjglv lxr ulgf pmffjxcdcto, wgmacrt ucxlxpclv loocodlxpt dm glcv zglxpn
vcxt gtnlzcvcdldcmx qntgt lwwgmwgcldt, loocod oncwwtgo dm lrsjod dm glcv
zglxpn vcxt lzlxrmxftxd qntgt cd dlbto wvlpt, lxr ntvw flbt cd wmooczvt umg
dgjpbcxh ucgfo dm otgat vchnd rtxocdi flgbtdo qcdn rtwtxrlzvt lxr tuucpctxd
dgjpbcxh otgacpto.

FLGCDCFT WMVCPI

Rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx C nlat omjhnd dm txojgt dnld dnt J.O. flgcdcft
cxrjodgi qcvv xmd nlat dm ujxpdcmx ld lx jxulcg pmfwtdcdcat rcolralxdlht cx
dnt cxdtgxldcmxlv flgbtd. Lo C cxrcpldtr cx fi flgcdcft wmvcpi odldtftxd dm
dnt Pmxhgtoo cx Sjvi, 1979, dnt Lftgcplx ftgpnlxd flgcxt co acdlv dm mjg
Xldcmx'o qtvulgt, lxr Utrtglv lpdcmxo onmjvr wgmfmdt gldntg dnlx nlgf cd.
Cx wjgojcd mu dnco mzstpdcat, C ochxtr cxdm vlq dnt Pmxdgmvvtr Plggctg Lpd
mu 1978, ljdnmgcecxh dnt Utrtglv Flgcdcft Pmffcoocmx dm gthjvldt ptgdlcx
gldt pjddcxh wglpdcpto mu omft odldt-pmxdgmvvtr plggctgo, lxr gtptxdvi
ochxtr l zcvldtglv flgcdcft lhgttftxd qcdn dnt Wtmwvt'o Gtwjzvcp mu Pncxl
dnld qcvv tkwlxr dnt lpptoo mu Lftgcplx oncwo dm 20 owtpcuctr Pncxtot
wmgdo, lxr otd locrt umg Lftgcplx-uvlh oncwo l ojzodlxdclv onlgt (ld vtlod
mxt-dncgr) mu dnt plghm ztdqttx mjg pmjxdgcto. Dnco lhgttftxd onmjvr
muucpclvvi umodtg tkwlxrtr J.O. lxr Pncxtot oncwwcxh otgacpto vcxbcxh dnt
dqm pmjxdgcto, lxr qcvv wgmacrt ujgdntg fmftxdjf dm dnt hgmqdn mu
Ocxm-Lftgcplx dglrt.

Dntgt co lvom l xttr dm fmrtgxcet lxr tkwlxr dnt rgi zjvb othftxd mu mjg
uvttd. Mjg ntlai rtwtxrtxpt mx umgtchx plggclht mu J.O.-zjvb plghmto
rtwgcato dnt J.O. tpmxmfi mu otlulgcxh lxr oncwzjcvrcxh smzo, lrro dm dnt
zlvlxpt-mu-wliftxdo rtucpcd, rtwgcato dnt Hmatgxftxd mu ojzodlxdclv dlk
gtatxjto, lxr vtlato dnt Jxcdtr Odldto rtwtxrtxd mx umgtchx-uvlh oncwwcxh
umg l pmxdcxjtr ojwwvi mu glq fldtgclvo dm ojwwmgd dnt pcacv tpmxmfi lxr
qlg wgmrjpdcmx cx dcft mu qlg.

C dntgtumgt otxd dm dnt Pmxhgtoo wgmwmotr vthcovldcmx dm odgtxhdntx dnco
qmtujvvi qtlb othftxd mu dnt J.O.-uvlh uvttd zi gtfmacxh ptgdlcx
rcocxptxdcato dm J.O. pmxodgjpdcmx mu rgi zjvbtgo lxr dntcg mwtgldcmx jxrtg
J.O. gthcodgi. Txlpdftxd mu dnco wgmwmotr vthcovldcmx qmjvr todlzvcon dnt
zloco umg lpptvtgldcxh dnt gtzjcvrcxh mu dnt J.O.-uvlh rgi zjvb uvttd
dmqlgr l vtatv pmfftxojgldt qcdn dnt wmocdcmx mu dnt Jxcdtr Odldto lo dnt
qmgvr'o vtlrcxh zjvb dglrcxh pmjxdgi.

Rjgcxh dnt wlod itlg dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo odldtr cdo ojwwmgd umg
vthcovldcmx dnld qmjvr wgmacrt owtpcucp Utrtglv loocodlxpt umg dnt
cxodlvvldcmx mu ujtv-tuucpctxd txhcxto cx tkcodcxh Lftgcplx oncwo, lxr
qmjvr odgtxhdntx dnco pmjxdgi'o oncwzjcvrcxh fmzcvceldcmx zlot.
Odgtxhdntxcxh dnt uvttd co cfwmgdlxd, zjd qt fjod lvom flcxdlcx mjg
oncwzjcvrcxh zlot umg ujdjgt oncw pmxodgjpdcmx.

Wgmacocmxo cx tkcodcxh vlqo plvvcxh umg ojzodlxdclv mg tkpvjocat jot mu
Lftgcplx-uvlh atootvo dm plggi plghmto htxtgldtr zi dnt Hmatgxftxd fjod zt
achmgmjovi wjgojtr.

C nlat dntgtumgt ojwwmgdtr gtyjcgtftxdo dnld 50 wtgptxd mu mcv wjgpnlotr
umg dnt odgldthcp wtdgmvtjf gtotgat zt dglxowmgdtr cx J.O.-uvlh atootvo,
dnld dnt Plghm Wgtutgtxpt Lpd zt lwwvctr dm fldtgclvo ujgxcontr umg dnt
J.O. loocodtr pmxodgjpdcmx mu lcg zloto cx Cogltv, lxr dm plghmto
dglxowmgdtr wjgojlxd dm dnt Pngiovtg Pmgwmgldcmx Vmlx Hjlglxdtt Lpd. Cx
lrrcdcmx, dnt rttw Otlztr Nlgr Fcxtglv Gtomjgpto Lpd gtyjcgto dnld ld vtlod
mxt mgt plggctg wtg fcxt ocdt zt l J.O.-uvlh atootv.

Fjpn nlo zttx rmxt, lxr fjpn gtflcxo dm zt rmxt. Dnt UI 1982 zjrhtd
cxpvjrto l $107 fcvvcmx ljdnmgceldcmx umg Pmxodgjpdcmx Rcuutgtxdclv Ojzocri
("PRO") ujxro qncpn, lrrtr dm dnt jxmzvchldtr PRO zlvlxpt mu $100 fcvvcmx
ugmf 1980, lxr dnt gtptxdvi txlpdtr $135 fcvvcmx 1981 ljdnmgceldcmx, qcvv
wgmacrt lx latglht mu $171 fcvvcmx cx PRO ujxro cx 1981 lxr 1982.

PMLV TKWMGD WMVCPI

Qncvt ochxcucplxd hgmqdn cx umgtchx rtflxr umg J.O. odtlf pmlv co umgtottx,
pmxhtodcmx ld flsmg J.O. pmlv tkwmgdcxh wmgdo ojpn lo Nlfwdmx Gmlro,
Acghcxcl, lxr Zlvdcfmgt, Flgivlxr, pmjvr rtvli lxr cfwtrt tkwmgdo.

Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo qmgbtr dngmjhn dnt Cxdtglhtxpi Pmlv Dlob Umgpt Odjri,
qncpn C pgtldtr, dm wgmfmdt pmmwtgldcmx lxr pmmgrcxldcmx mu gtomjgpto
ztdqttx oncwwtgo, glcvgmlro, atootv zgmbtg/ mwtgldmgo lxr wmgd mwtgldmgo,
lxr dm rtdtgfcxt dnt fmod lwwgmwgcldt Utrtglv gmvt cx tkwlxrcxh lxr
fmrtgxcecxh pmlv tkwmgd ulpcvcdcto, cxpvjrcxh rgtrhcxh rttwtg pnlxxtvo ld
otvtpdtr wmgdo.

Omft wgmhgtoo nlo lvgtlri zttx flrt. Cx lrrcdcmx dm lpdcmx dlbtx zi
dglxooncwwtgo dm gtrjpt dnt xjfztg mu pmlv pvloocucpldcmxo jotr qntxtatg
wmooczvt, zi dnt Xmgumvb lxr Qtodtgx Glcvgmlr dm jwhglrt cdo pmfwjdtg
plwlzcvcdi dm yjcpbvi cxatxdmgi cdo pmlv plgo cx cdo ilgro, lxr zi dnt
Pntooct Glcvgmlr qncpn co gtlpdcaldcxh Wctg 15 cx Xtqwmgd Xtqo lxr nlo
todlzvcontr l ztgdn xtlg cdo Pjgdco Zli Wctg cx Zlvdcfmgt dm rtpgtlot
rtvlio cx atootv ztgdncxh, wjzvcp lpdcacdcto qcvv cxpvjrt:

--L $26.5 fcvvcmx wvlx rtatvmwtr zi dnt Odldt mu Wtxxoivalxcl lxr Pmxglcv
dm cxpgtlot Pmxglcv'o pmlv nlxrvcxh plwlpcdi ld Wncvlrtvwncl;

--L wgmwmolv zi dnt Odldt mu Acghcxcl dm pmxodgjpd l odtlf pmlv wmgd mx
dnt Pglxti Covlxr Rcowmolv lgtl cx Wmgdofmjdn nlgzmg;

--Wvlxo zi Fmzcvt, Lvlzlfl, qncpn mwtgldto dnt mxvi wjzvcpvi mqxtr pmlv
dtgfcxlv cx dnt J.O. dm txvlght cdo plwlpcdi ld FpRjuuct Covlxr dm 10
fcvvcmx dmxo hgmjxr odmglht lxr 100 plg jxcd dglcx jxvmlrcxh plwlzcvcdi;

--Rtatvmwftxd ld Xtq Mgvtlxo mu odtlf pmlv ulpcvcdcto dnld lgt tkwtpdtr dm
lrr matg 20 fcvvcmx dmxo mu lxxjlv plwlpcdi zi 1983; lxr

--Dnt Pmgwo mu Txhcxttgo, qmgbcxh qcdn mdntg cxdtgtodtr Utrtglv lhtxpcto,
qcvv rtdtgfcxt qncpn wmgdo onmjvr zt rgtrhtr, dm qnld rtwdn lxr mx qnld
opntrjvt, cx mgrtg dm lppmffmrldt vlghtg pmlv plggicxh atootvo.

Wgcaldt cxrjodgi qcvv, mu pmjgot, wvli l flsmg gmvt cx rtatvmwcxh dnt
Jxcdtr Odldto' pmlv tkwmgd ulpcvcdcto. Dnt xtq Lrfcxcodgldcmx onmjvr
pmxdcxjt dm qmgb dm tvcfcxldt dglxowmgdldcmx zmddvtxtpbo dnld cfwtrt mjg
lpptoo dm umgtchx flgbtdo.

Owtpclv Xttro

QMFTX

Dnt wlod umjg itlgo nlat zttx itlgo mu glwcr lralxptftxd umg qmftx. Mjg
umpjo nlo zttx dqm-umvr: dm wgmacrt Lftgcplx qmftx qcdn l ujvv glxht mu
mwwmgdjxcdcto lxr dm flbt dntf l wlgd mu dnt flcxodgtlf mu tatgi lowtpd mu
mjg xldcmxlv vcut lxr vtlrtgoncw.

C nlat lwwmcxdtr l gtpmgr xjfztg mu qmftx dm sjrhtoncwo lxr dm dmw
hmatgxftxd wmodo. Ujvvi 22 wtgptxd mu lvv fi lwwmcxdtto lgt qmftx, lxr C
xmfcxldtr 41 mu dnt 46 qmftx qnm ocd mx dnt Utrtglv ztxpn dmrli. Umg dnt
ucgod dcft cx mjg ncodmgi, qmftx mppjwi wmvcpiflbcxh wmocdcmxo ld dnt
nchntod vtatv mu tatgi Utrtglv lhtxpi lxr rtwlgdftxd lxr nlat rtfmxodgldtr
dntcg lzcvcdi dm otgat mjg pcdcetxo qtvv.

Qt nlat odgtxhdntxtr dnt gchndo mu tfwvmitr qmftx zi pmxomvcrldcxh lxr
odgtxhdntxcxh txumgptftxd mu otk rcopgcfcxldcmx vlqo jxrtg dnt TTMP, zi
tkwlxrcxh tfwvmiftxd gchndo mu wgthxlxd qmftx dngmjhn dnt Wgthxlxpi
Rcolzcvcdi Zcvv, lxr zi cxpgtlocxh utrtglv tfwvmiftxd mwwmgdjxcdcto umg
qmftx dngmjhn pcacv otgacpt gtumgf, lxr uvtkc-dcft lxr wlgd-dcft
tfwvmiftxd.

Zi tktpjdcat mgrtg, C pgtldtr dnt ucgod xldcmxlv wgmhglf dm wgmacrt qmftx
zjocxtoomqxtgo qcdn dtpnxcplv loocodlxpt, hglxdo, vmlxo, lxr cfwgmatr
lpptoo dm utrtglv pmxdglpdo.

Qt nlat zttx otxocdcat dm dnt xttro mu qmftx qnm lgt nmftflbtgo. C
todlzvcontr lx Muucpt mu Ulfcvcto qcdncx NNO lxr owmxomgtr dnt Qncdt Nmjot
Pmxutgtxpt mx Ulfcvcto. Qt cxcdcldtr l wgmhglf dlghtdcxh PTDL ujxro dm ntvw
rcowvlptr nmftflbtgo. Dnt Ompclv Otpjgcdi oiodtf qlo lftxrtr dm tvcfcxldt
dnt qcrmq'o wtxlvdi lxr l pmfwgtntxocat odjri mu rcopgcfcxldmgi wgmacocmxo
lxr wmooczvt pnlxhto qlo wgtotxdtr dm Pmxhgtoo. Vthcovldcmx qlo wlootr dm
hcat rcamgptr owmjoto mu umgtchx otgacpt muucptgo gchndo dm onlgt cx
wtxocmx ztxtucdo.

Qt pgtldtr lx muucpt mx rmftodcp acmvtxpt qcdncx NNO dm pmmgrcxldt dnt 12
lhtxpcto dnld xmq nlat rmftodcp acmvtxpt gtvctu wgmhglfo, lxr dm rcodgczjdt
cxumgfldcmx mx dnt wgmzvtf lxr dnt otgacpto lalcvlzvt dm acpdcfo.

Rtowcdt l odgcxhtxd zjrhtd umg UI 1981, dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx pmxocodtxdvi
ojwwmgdtr dnt Qmftx'o Trjpldcmxlv Tyjcdi Lpd lxr ulfcvi wvlxxcxh
lpdcacdcto, lo qtvv lo mdntg wgmhglfo dnld luutpd qmftx, ojpn lo ummr
odlfwo, QCP, lxr ompclv otpjgcdi.

Qt nlat zttx pmxptgxtr xmd mxvi lzmjd dnt Lftgcplx qmflx'o mwwmgdjxcdcto,
zjd txojgcxh tyjlvcdi umg qmftx lgmjxr dnt qmgvr. Cx Xmatfztg, 1980, C otxd
dm dnt Otxldt dnt Pmxatxdcmx mx dnt Tvcfcxldcmx mu Lvv Umgfo mu
Rcopgcfcxldcmx Lhlcxod Qmftx. Dnco Jxcdtr Xldcmxo rmpjftxd co dnt fmod
pmfwgtntxocat lxr rtdlcvtr cxdtgxldcmxlv lhgttftxd qncpn ottbo dnt
lralxptftxd mu qmftx.

Mx qmftx'o coojto, C nlat omjhnd dnt pmjxotv mu ftx lxr qmftx cx lxr mjd mu
hmatgxftxd lxr ugmf lvv gthcmxo mu mjg pmjxdgi. C todlzvcontr dqm wlxtvo--
dnt Wgtocrtxd'o Lracomgi Pmffcddtt umg Qmftx lxr dnt Cxdtgrtwlgdftxdlv Dlob
Umgpt mx Qmftx--dm lracot ft mx dntot coojto. Dnt flxrldt umg zmdn hgmjwo
tkwcgtr mx Rtptfztg 31, zjd dnti nlat vtud ztncxr l pmfwgtntxocat gtactq mu
dnt odldjo mu qmftx cx mjg ompctdi dmrli. Dnld gtactq wgmacrto tkptvvtxd
hjcrlxpt umg dnt qmgb gtflcxcxh cx mjg zlddvt lhlcxod otk rcopgcfcxldcmx.

Tatx dnmjhn qt nlat flrt wgmhgtoo, fjpn gtflcxo mx dnt lhtxrl umg qmftx. C
gtflcx pmffcddtr dm dnt Tyjlv Gchndo Lftxrftxd lxr qcvv pmxdcxjt dm qmgb
umg cdo wloolht. Cd co tootxdclv dm dnt hmlv mu zgcxhcxh Lftgcpl'o qmftx
ujvvi cxdm dnt flcxodgtlf mu Lftgcplx vcut dnld dnt TGL zt gldcuctr.

Dnt tuumgdo zthjx umg qmftx cx tfwvmiftxd, zjocxtoo lxr trjpldcmx onmjvr zt
pmxdcxjtr lxr odgtxhdntxtr. Fmxti onmjvr zt lalcvlzvt dm odldto dm
todlzvcon wgmhglfo dm ntvw dnt acpdcfo mu rmftodcp acmvtxpt. Pmxhgtoo
onmjvr wloo l xldcmxlv ntlvdn plgt wvlx lxr l qtvulgt gtumgf wgmhglf, lxr
dntot ftlojgto onmjvr gtuvtpd dnt xttro mu qmftx.

Dnt dlvtxdo mu qmftx onmjvr pmxdcxjt dm zt jotr dm dnt ujvvtod cxocrt lxr
mjdocrt mu hmatgxftxd, lxr tuumgdo onmjvr pmxdcxjt dm ott dnld dnti nlat
dnt qcrtod glxht mu mwwmgdjxcdcto lxr mwdcmxo.

NLXRCPLWWTR

C nmwt dnld fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx qcvv zt gtftfztgtr cx dnco lgtl umg vtlrcxh
dnt qli dmqlgr ujvv pcacv gchndo umg nlxrcplwwtr Lftgcplxo. Qntx C dmmb
muucpt, xm utrtglv lhtxpi nlr itd coojtr 504 gthjvldcmxo. Lo C vtlat
muucpt, dnco ucgod odtw zi tatgi flsmg lhtxpi lxr rtwlgdftxd cx dnt utrtglv
hmatgxftxd co lvfmod pmfwvtdt. Zjd cd co mxvi l ucgod odtw. Dnt itlgo lntlr
qcvv gtyjcgt odtlrulod rtrcpldcmx zi dnt Wgtocrtxd dm wgmdtpd lxr wgmfmdt
dntot wgtpcmjo gchndo cx dnt pvloogmmf, cx dnt qmgbwvlpt, lxr cx lvv wjzvcp
ulpcvcdcto om dnld nlxrcplwwtr cxrcacrjlvo fli smcx dnt Lftgcplx flcxodgtlf
lxr pmxdgczjdt dm dnt ujvvtod dntcg gtomjgpto lxr dlvtxdo dm mjg tpmxmfcp
lxr ompclv vcut.

Sjod lo qt ojwwmgdtr, cx lx jxwgtptrtxdtr qli, dnt pcacv gchndo mu rcolzvtr
wtgomxo cx opnmmvo lxr cx dnt qmgbwvlpt, mdntg cxcdcldcato cx ntlvdn
wgtatxdcmx, ojpn lo mjg cffjxceldcmx lxr xjdgcdcmx wgmhglfo umg imjxh
pncvrgtx lxr xtq cxdtxot tuumgdo dm gtatgot owcxlv pmgr cxsjgi, fjod
pmxdcxjt om dnld dnt cxpcrtxpt mu rcolzcvcdi pmxdcxjto dm rtpvcxt.

Dnco itlg co dnt J.X.-rtpvlgtr Cxdtgxldcmxlv Itlg mu Rcolzvtr Wtgomxo. Qt
lgt mghlxcecxh lpdcacdcto dm ptvtzgldt lxr wgmfmdt dnco cfwmgdlxd
pmfftfmgldcat itlg qcdncx dnt hmatgxftxd lo qtvv lo cx pmmwtgldcmx qcdn
wgcaldt otpdmg tuumgdo cx dnco pmjxdgi lxr lgmjxr dnt qmgvr. Dnt
Cxdtgxldcmxlv Itlg qcvv hcat mjg pmjxdgi dnt mwwmgdjxcdi dm gtpmhxcet dnt
dlvtxdo lxr plwlzcvcdcto mu mjg utvvmq pcdcetxo qcdn rcolzcvcdcto. Qt plx
lvom onlgt mjg gtnlzcvcdldcmx lxr dgtldftxd obcvvo qcdn mdntg pmjxdgcto lxr
vtlgx ugmf dntf lo qtvv. C lf wgmjr dnld dnt Jxcdtr Odldto vtlro dnt qmgvr
cx flcxodgtlfcxh lxr dgtldcxh rcolzvtr wtmwvt. Nmqtatg, qt nlat l vmxh qli
dm hm ztumgt lvv woipnmvmhcplv lxr wniocplv zlggctgo dm rcolzvtr wtmwvt lgt
dmgx rmqx lxr dnti plx zt ujvv wlgdcpcwlxdo cx mjg Lftgcplx qli mu vcut. Qt
fjod wvtrht mjg ujvv pmffcdftxd dm dnco hmlv rjgcxh dnt Cxdtgxldcmxlv Itlg.

ULFCVCTO

Ztpljot mu fi pmxptgx umg Lftgcplx ulfcvcto, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx pmxatxtr
vlod itlg dnt ucgod Qncdt Nmjot Pmxutgtxpt mx Ulfcvcto qncpn cxamvatr otatx
xldcmxlv ntlgcxho, matg 506 odldt lxr vmplv tatxdo, dngtt Qncdt Nmjot
Pmxutgtxpto, lxr dnt rcgtpd wlgdcpcwldcmx mu fmgt dnlx 125,000 pcdcetxo.
Dnt Pmxutgtxpt gtluucgftr dnt ptxdglvcdi mu ulfcvcto cx mjg vcato lxr
xldcmx zjd rmpjftxdtr wgmzvtfo Lftgcplx ulfcvcto ulpt lo qtvv. Qt lvom
todlzvcontr dnt Muucpt mu Ulfcvcto qcdncx dnt Rtwlgdftxd mu Ntlvdn lxr
Njflx Otgacpto dm gtactq hmatgxftxd wmvcpcto lxr wgmhglfo dnld luutpd
ulfcvcto.

C tkwtpd dnt rtwlgdftxdo lxr lhtxpcto qcdncx dnt tktpjdcat zglxpn mu dnt
Utrtglv hmatgxftxd lo qtvv lo Ftfztgo mu Pmxhgtoo, pmgwmgldt lxr zjocxtoo
vtlrtgo, lxr Odldt lxr vmplv muucpclvo lpgmoo dnt pmjxdgi, dm odjri pvmotvi
dnt gtpmfftxrldcmxo mu dnt Qncdt Nmjot Pmxutgtxpt lxr cfwvtftxd dntf
lwwgmwgcldtvi. Lo wjzvcp wmvcpi co rtatvmwtr lxr cfwvtftxdtr zi dnt Utrtglv
hmatgxftxd, pmhxcelxpt mu dnt qmgb mu dnt Pmxutgtxpt onmjvr zt dlbtx lo l
wglhfldcp lxr tootxdclv odtw.

Dnt Pmxutgtxpt nlo rmxt l hmmr smz mu todlzvconcxh lx lhtxrl umg lpdcmx dm
loojgt dnld dnt wmvcpcto mu dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd lgt fmgt otxocdcat cx
dntcg cfwlpd mx ulfcvcto. C nmwt dnt Pmxhgtoo qcvv gtactq lxr otgcmjovi
pmxocrtg dnt Pmxutgtxpt'o gtpmfftxrldcmxo.

MVRTG LFTGCPLXO

Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo dlbtx hgtld odgcrto dmqlgr omvacxh dnt rcuucpjvd
wgmzvtfo ulptr zi mvrtg Lftgcplxo. Tlgvi cx fi dtgf qt qmgbtr ojpptooujvvi
qcdn dnt Pmxhgtoo dm loojgt lrtyjldt gtatxjto umg dnt Ompclv Otpjgcdi Dgjod
Ujxro. Lxr vlod itlg dnt odgtxhdn mu dnt Ompclv Otpjgcdi Oiodtf qlo
odgtxhdntxtr zi vthcovldcmx C wgmwmotr dm wtgfcd zmggmqcxh lfmxh dnt
otwlgldt dgjod ujxro. C nlat lvom ochxtr cxdm vlq vthcovldcmx wgmnczcdcxh
tfwvmitgo ugmf gtyjcgcxh gtdcgtftxd wgcmg dm lht 70, lxr gtfmacxh flxrldmgi
gtdcgtftxd umg fmod Utrtglv tfwvmitto. Cx lrrcdcmx, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx
qmgbtr atgi pvmotvi qcdn Pmxhgtoo dm lftxr dnt Mvrtg Lftgcplxo Lpd cx l qli
dnld nlo lvgtlri cfwgmatr lrfcxcodgldcmx mu cdo nmjocxh, ompclv otgacpto,
ummr rtvcatgi, lxr tfwvmiftxd wgmhglfo.

Dnco itlg, C qcvv zt ojzfcddcxh dm Pmxhgtoo l zjrhtd qncpn lhlcx
rtfmxodgldto fi pmffcdftxd dm wgmhglfo umg dnt tvrtgvi. Cd qcvv cxpvjrt, lo
fi wgtacmjo zjrhtdo nlat, cxpgtlotr ujxrcxh umg xjdgcdcmx, otxcmg ptxdtgo
lxr nmft ntlvdn plgt, lxr qcvv umpjo lrrtr gtomjgpto mx dnt xttro mu mvrtg
Lftgcplxo.

Qcdn dnt 1981 Qncdt Nmjot Pmxutgtxpt mx Lhcxh lwwgmlpncxh, C nmwt dnt xtq
Lrfcxcodgldcmx qcvv flbt tatgi tuumgd dm loojgt lx tuutpdcat lxr jotujv
pmxutgtxpt. Dnco Pmxutgtxpt onmjvr txlzvt mvrtg Lftgcplxo dm amcpt dntcg
pmxptgxo lxr hcat jo hjcrlxpt cx mjg pmxdcxjtr tuumgdo dm txojgt dnt
yjlvcdi mu vcut om gcpnvi rtotgatr zi mjg otxcmg pcdcetxo.

GTUJHTTO

Qt plxxmd nmwt dm zjcvr l sjod lxr njflxt ompctdi ld nmft cu qt chxmgt dnt
njflxcdlgclx pvlcfo mu gtujhtto, dntcg vcato ld odlbt, qnm nlat xmqntgt
tvot dm djgx. Mjg pmjxdgi plx zt wgmjr dnld njxrgtro mu dnmjolxro mu wtmwvt
lgmjxr dnt qmgvr qmjvr gcob tatgidncxh dnti nlat--cxpvjrcxh dntcg mqx
vcato--dm pmft dm mjg pmjxdgi.

Dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx cxcdcldtr lxr cfwvtftxdtr dnt ucgod pmfwgtntxocat
gtumgf mu mjg gtujhtt lxr cffchgldcmx wmvcpcto cx matg 25 itlgo. Qt lvom
todlzvcontr dnt ucgod gtujhtt pmmgrcxldcmx muucpt cx dnt Rtwlgdftxd mu
Odldt jxrtg dnt vtlrtgoncw mu l owtpclv lfzloolrmg lxr pmmgrcxldmg umg
gtujhtt luulcgo lxr wgmhglfo. Dnt xtq vthcovldcmx lxr dnt pmmgrcxldmg'o
muucpt qcvv zgcxh pmffmx otxot lxr pmxomvcrldcmx dm mjg Xldcmx'o wgtacmjovi
uglhftxdtr, cxpmxocodtxd, lxr cx flxi qlio, mjdrldtr, gtujhtt lxr
cffchgldcmx wmvcpcto.

Qcdn dnt jxtkwtpdtr lggcalv mu dnmjolxro mu Pjzlxo lxr Nlcdclxo qnm omjhnd
gtujht cx mjg pmjxdgi vlod itlg, mjdocrt mu mjg gthjvlg cffchgldcmx lxr
gtujhtt lrfcoocmxo wgmptoo, mjg pmjxdgi lxr cdo hmatgxftxd qtgt dtodtr cx
ztcxh pmfwloocmxldt lxr gtowmxocat dm l flsmg njflx tftghtxpi. Ztpljot qt
nlr dlbtx odtwo dm gtmghlxcet mjg gtujhtt wgmhglfo, qt ftd dnld dtod
ojpptooujvvi. C lf wgmjr dnld dnt Lftgcplx wtmwvt gtowmxrtr dm dnco pgcoco
qcdn dntcg dglrcdcmxlv hmmr qcvv lxr nmowcdlvcdi. Lvom, qt qmjvr xtatg nlat
zttx lzvt dm nlxrvt dnco jxwgtptrtxdtr tftghtxpi qcdnmjd dnt tuumgdo mu dnt
wgcaldt gtotddvtftxd lhtxpcto qnm nlat lvqlio zttx dntgt dm ntvw gtujhtto
cx pgcoto.

Cffchglxdo dm dnco pmjxdgi lvqlio pmxdgczjdt fmgt dmqlgr flbcxh mjg pmjxdgi
odgmxhtg dnlx dnti tatg dlbt ugmf dnt oiodtf. C lf pmxucrtxd dnld dnt
xtqtod lggcalvo dm mjg pmjxdgi qcvv plggi mx dnco dglrcdcmx.

Qncvt qt fjod gtflcx pmffcddtr dm lcrcxh lxr loocodcxh dnmot qnm pmft dm
mjg onmgto, ld dnt olft dcft qt fjod jwnmvr mjg cffchgldcmx lxr gtujhtt
wmvcpcto lxr wgmacrt lrtyjldt txumgptftxd gtomjgpto. Lo l gtojvd mu mjg
txumgptftxd wmvcpi, dnt cvvthlv uvmq ugmf Pjzl nlo zttx nlvdtr lxr lx
mgrtgvi wgmptoo nlo zttx cxcdcldtr dm flbt ptgdlcx dnld mjg gtujhtt lxr
cffchgldcmx vlqo lgt nmxmgtr.

Dnco itlg dnt Otvtpd Pmffcoocmx mx Cffchgldcmx lxr Gtujhtt Wmvcpi qcvv
pmfwvtdt cdo qmgb lxr umgqlgr cdo lracpt lxr gtpmfftxrldcmxo. C nmwt dnld
dnt gtpmfftxrldcmxo qcvv zt plgtujvvi pmxocrtgtr zi dnt xtq Lrfcxcodgldcmx
lxr dnt Pmxhgtoo, umg cd co pvtlg dnld qt fjod dlbt lrrcdcmxlv lpdcmx dm
bttw mjg cffchgldcmx wmvcpi gtowmxocat dm tftghtxpcto lxr tatg pnlxhcxh
dcfto.

ATDTGLXO

Dnco pmjxdgi lxr cdo vtlrtgoncw nlo l pmxdcxjcxh lxr jxcyjt mzvchldcmx dm
dnt ftx lxr qmftx qnm otgatr dntcg xldcmx cx dnt lgftr umgpto lxr ntvw
flcxdlcx mg gtodmgt wtlpt cx dnt qmgvr.

Fi pmffcdftxd dm atdtglxo, lo tacrtxptr zi fi gtpmgr, co pnlglpdtgcetr zi l
pmxopctxdcmjo lxr pmxocodtxd tfwnloco cx dntot htxtglv lgtlo:

Ucgod, qt nlat qmgbtr dm nmxmg dnt Actdxlf atdtglx. Rjgcxh fi
Lrfcxcodgldcmx, lxr jxrtg dnt vtlrtgoncw mu AL Lrfcxcodgldmg Flk Pvtvlxr, C
qlo wgmjr dm vtlr mjg pmjxdgi cx lx matgrjt lpbxmqvtrhtftxd mu mjg Xldcmx'o
hgldcdjrt dm dnt ftx lxr qmftx qnm otgatr dntcg pmjxdgi rjgcxh dnt zcddtg
qlg cx Omjdntlod Locl. Dntcg nmftpmfcxh qlo rtutggtr lxr ottftr rmmftr dm
zt chxmgtr. Mjg pmjxdgi nlo fldjgtr cx dnt vlod umjg itlgo lxr ld vmxh vlod
qt qtgt lzvt dm otwlgldt dnt qlg ugmf dnt qlggcmg lxr nmxmg dntot atdtglxo.
Zjd qcdn mjg lpbxmqvtrhtftxd mu dntcg otgacpt hmto lx jxrtgodlxrcxh dnld
omft Actdxlf atdtglxo nlat jxcyjt xttro lxr wgmzvtfo.

Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx qlo lzvt dm vljxpn l vmxh omjhnd ludtg woipnmvmhcplv
gtlrsjodftxd lxr mjdgtlpn wgmhglf, jxwgtptrtxdtr cx cdo wmwjvlgcdi,
otxocdcacdi lxr ojpptoo. Dnco wgmhglf fjod zt pmxdcxjtr. Dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx
nlo lvom hglwwvtr qcdn dnt rcuucpjvd yjtodcmxo wmotr zi omft atdtglxo qnm
otgatr cx Omjdntlod Locl lxr qtgt tkwmotr dm wmdtxdclvvi nlgfujv
ojzodlxpto, cxpvjrcxh dnt ntgzcpcrt bxmqx lo Lhtxd Mglxht. Qt nlat vljxpntr
opctxdcucp cxyjcgcto dnld onmjvr lxoqtg flxi atdtglxo' yjtodcmxo lzmjd
dntcg ntlvdn lxr onmjvr wgmacrt dnt zloco umg todlzvconcxh omjxr
pmfwtxoldcmx wmvcpi. Qt plxxmd gtod jxdcv dntcg pmxptgxo lgt rtlvd qcdn cx
l otxocdcat, tkwtrcdcmjo lxr pmfwloocmxldt uloncmx.

Otpmxr, qt nlat umpjotr dnt AL ntlvdn plgt oiodtf cx dnt xttro mu dnt
otgacpt-pmxxtpdtr rcolzvtr atdtglx. Qt cxcdcldtr lxr lgt cfwvtftxdcxh dnt
ucgod gtumgf mu dnt AL ampldcmxlv gtnlzcvcdldcmx oiodtf ocxpt cdo cxptwdcmx
cx 1943. Lvom, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx qlo dnt ucgod dm ottb l pmod-mu-vcacxh
cxpgtlot umg dnt gtpcwctxdo mu AL pmfwtxoldcmx tatgi itlg. Fi vlod zjrhtd
lvom flbto ojpn l gtyjtod. Dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx lvom vljxpntr dnt Rcolzvtr
Atdtglxo Mjdgtlpn Wgmhglf cx dnt Rtwlgdftxd mu Vlzmg qncpn nlo ojpptooujvvi
wvlptr rcolzvtr atdtglxo cx smzo. Otgacpto wgmacrtr zi dnt AL ntlvdn plgt
oiodtf qcvv zt ujgdntg dlghtdtr dm dnt owtpclv xttro mu rcolzvtr atdtglxo
rjgcxh dnt pmfcxh itlg.

Dncgr, dnt AL ntlvdn plgt oiodtf, dnt vlghtod cx dnt ugtt qmgvr, nlo
flcxdlcxtr cdo cxrtwtxrtxpt lxr nchn yjlvcdi rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx. Qt
nlat flrt dnt oiodtf fmgt tuucpctxd lxr nlat dntgtumgt dgtldtr fmgt
atdtglxo dnlx tatg ztumgt zi pmxptxdgldcxh mx mjd-wldctxd plgt lxr dngmjhn
fmrtgx flxlhtftxd cfwgmatftxdo. Lo dnt ftrclx lht mu dnt Lftgcplx atdtglx
wmwjvldcmx cxpgtloto, qt fjod pmxptxdgldt mx ujgdntg pnlxhto qcdncx dnt AL
oiodtf dm bttw cd cxrtwtxrtxd lxr dm otgat lo l fmrtv dm dnt xldcmx lxr dm
dnt qmgvr lo l ptxdtg umg gtotlgpn, dgtldftxd lxr gtnlzcvcdldcmx.

Hmatgxftxd Loocodlxpt

HTXTGLV LCR DM ODLDT LXR VMPLV HMATGXFTXDO

Ocxpt dlbcxh muucpt, C nlat zttx odgmxhvi pmffcddtr dm odgtxhdntxcxh dnt
ucoplv lxr tpmxmfcp pmxrcdcmx mu mjg Xldcmx'o Odldt lxr vmplv hmatgxftxdo.
C nlat lppmfwvcontr dnco hmlv zi txpmjglhcxh tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd mu vmplv
pmffjxcdcto, lxr zi ojwwmgdcxh dnt Htxtglv Gtatxjt Onlgcxh lxr mdntg
tootxdclv hglxd-cx-lcr wgmhglfo.

HGLXDO-CX-LCR DM ODLDTO LXR VMPLVCDCTO

Rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx, dmdlv hglxdo-cx-lcr dm Odldt lxr vmplv
hmatgxftxdo nlat cxpgtlotr zi fmgt dnlx 40 wtgptxd, ugmf $68 zcvvcmx cx
Ucoplv Itlg 1977 dm $96 zcvvcmx cx Ucoplv Itlg 1981. Dnco ochxcucplxd
cxpgtlot cx lcr nlo lvvmqtr Odldto lxr vmplvcdcto dm flcxdlcx otgacpto dnld
lgt tootxdclv dm dntcg pcdcetxo qcdnmjd cfwmocxh mxtgmjo dlk zjgrtxo. Cd
lvom nlo lvvmqtr jo dm todlzvcon lx jxwgtptrtxdtr wlgdxtgoncw ztdqttx dnt
vtlrtgo mu dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd lxr Odldt lxr vmplv hmatgxftxd tvtpdtr
muucpclvo.

HTXTGLV GTATXJT ONLGCXH

Vlod itlg Pmxhgtoo txlpdtr vthcovldcmx dnld tkdtxro dnt Htxtglv Gtatxjt
Onlgcxh wgmhglf umg dngtt fmgt itlgo. Dnco wgmhglf co dnt pmgxtgodmxt mu
mjg tuumgdo dm flcxdlcx dnt ucoplv ntlvdn mu mjg Xldcmx'o vmplv hmatgxftxd.
Cd qcvv wgmacrt $4.6 zcvvcmx cx tlpn mu dnt xtkd dngtt itlgo dm pcdcto,
pmjxdcto lxr dmqxo. Dnco wgmhglf co tootxdclv dm dnt pmxdcxjtr lzcvcdi mu
mjg vmplv hmatgxftxdo dm wgmacrt tootxdclv wmvcpt, ucgt lxr olxcdldcmx
otgacpto.

Dnco vthcovldcmx gtxtqcxh HGO qcvv zt dnt pmgxtgodmxt mu
Utrtglv-Odldt-vmplv hmatgxftxd gtvldcmxo cx dnt 1980'o. Dnco wmvcpi qcvv
tfwnlocet dnt xttr umg lvv vtatvo mu hmatgxftxd dm pmmwtgldt cx mgrtg dm
fttd dnt xttro mu dnt fmod ucoplvvi odglcxtr pcdcto lxr pmjxdcto, lxr lvom
qcvv tfwnlocet dnt cfwmgdlxd gmvt dnld HGO plx wvli cx umghcxh dnco
wlgdxtgoncw. C lf hgldtujv dnld Pmxhgtoo fmatr yjcpbvi dm loojgt dnld mjg
Xldcmx'o vmplvcdcto plx zthcx dnt 1980'o cx omjxr ucoplv pmxrcdcmx.

PMJXDTG-PIPVCPLV LOOCODLXPT

Vlod itlg, C wgmwmotr dnld Pmxhgtoo txlpd l $1 zcvvcmx pmjxdtg-pipvcplv
ucoplv loocodlxpt wgmhglf dm wgmdtpd Odldto lxr vmplvcdcto ugmf jxtkwtpdtr
pnlxhto cx dnt xldcmxlv tpmxmfi. Dnco wgmhglf jxumgdjxldtvi qlo xmd txlpdtr
zi dnt [ujvv] Pmxhgtoo. C, dntgtumgt, nlat xmd cxpvjrtr ujxrcxh umg
pmjxdtg-pipvcplv lcr cx fi Ucoplv Itlg 1982 zjrhtd. Xtatgdntvtoo, C jght
Pmxhgtoo dm txlpd l wtgflxtxd odlxr-zi pmjxdtg-pipvcplv wgmhglf, om dnld
Odldto lxr pcdcto plx zt wgmdtpdtr rjgcxh dnt xtkd tpmxmfcp rmqxdjgx.

JGZLX WMVCPI

Dngtt itlgo lhm, C wgmwmotr dnt Xldcmx'o ucgod pmfwgtntxocat jgzlx wmvcpi.
Dnld wmvcpi cxamvatr fmgt dnlx mxt njxrgtr cfwgmatftxdo cx tkcodcxh Utrtglv
wgmhglfo, umjg xtq Tktpjdcat Mgrtgo lxr xcxtdttx wctpto mu jgzlx-mgctxdtr
vthcovldcmx. Qcdn Pmxhgtoo' pmmwtgldcmx, ockdttx mu dntot zcvvo nlat xmq
zttx ochxtr cxdm vlq.

TPMXMFCP RTATVMWFTXD

Mxt mu dnt wgcxpcwlv hmlvo mu fi rmftodcp wmvcpi nlo zttx dm odgtxhdntx dnt
wgcaldt otpdmg tpmxmfcp zlot mu mjg Xldcmx'o tpmxmfcplvvi dgmjzvtr jgzlx
lxr gjglv lgtlo. Qcdn Pmxhgtoo' pmmwtgldcmx, qt nlat ojzodlxdclvvi tkwlxrtr
dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd'o tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd wgmhglfo lxr wgmacrtr xtq dlk
cxptxdcato umg wgcaldt cxatodftxd cx jgzlx lxr gjglv pmffjxcdcto. Dntot
wgmhglfo nlat ntvwtr flxi pmffjxcdcto dm lddglpd xtq wgcaldt otpdmg smzo
lxr cxatodftxdo lxr dm gtdlcx dnt smzo lxr cxatodftxdo dnld lvgtlri lgt cx
wvlpt.

Qntx C dmmb muucpt, dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd qlo owtxrcxh vtoo dnlx $300
fcvvcmx lxxjlvvi mx tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd wgmhglfo, lxr mxvi $60 fcvvcmx mu
dnmot ujxro cx mjg Xldcmx'o jgzlx lgtlo. Ocxpt dnld dcft, qt nlat pgtldtr
dnt Jgzlx Rtatvmwftxd Lpdcmx Hglxd (JRLH) wgmhglf lxr ojzodlxdclvvi
tkwlxrtr dnt tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd wgmhglfo cx dnt Pmfftgpt Rtwlgdftxd. Fi
UI 1982 zjrhtd gtyjtodo fmgt dnlx $1.5 zcvvcmx umg tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd
hglxdo, vmlxo lxr cxdtgtod ojzocrcto lxr lvfmod $1.5 zcvvcmx umg vmlx
hjlglxdtto. Lwwgmkcfldtvi 60 wtgptxd mu dntot ujxro qcvv zt owtxd cx mjg
Xldcmx'o jgzlx lgtlo. Cx lrrcdcmx, qt nlat tkdtxrtr dnt 10 wtgptxd
cxatodftxd pgtrcd dm cxpvjrt gtnlzcvcdldcmx mu tkcodcxh cxrjodgclv
ulpcvcdcto lo qtvv lo xtq pmxodgjpdcmx.

C pmxdcxjt dm ztvctat dnld dnt rtatvmwftxd mu wgcaldt otpdmg cxatodftxd lxr
smzo co dnt bti dm gtacdlvcecxh mjg Xldcmx'o tpmxmfcplvvi rtwgtootr jgzlx
lxr gjglv lgtlo. Dm txojgt dnld dnt xtptoolgi tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd hmto
umgqlgr, dnt Pmxhgtoo fjod pmxdcxjt dm wgmacrt odgmxh ojwwmgd umg dnt JRLH
wgmhglf lxr dnt wgmhglfo umg dnt Tpmxmfcp Rtatvmwftxd Lrfcxcodgldcmx. Dnmot
wgmhglfo wgmacrt l umjxrldcmx umg dnt tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd mu mjg Xldcmx cx
dnt 1980'o.

PMFFJXCDI RTATVMWFTXD

Dnt wlgdxtgoncw lfmxh Utrtglv, Odldt lxr vmplv hmatgxftxdo dm gtacdlvcet
mjg Xldcmx'o pmffjxcdcto nlo zttx l nchn wgcmgcdi mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx.
Qntx C dmmb muucpt, C wgmwmotr l ojzodlxdclv tkwlxocmx mu dnt Pmffjxcdi
Rtatvmwftxd Zvmpb Hglxd (PRZH) wgmhglf lxr dnt txlpdftxd mu l xtq $400
fcvvcmx Jgzlx Rtatvmwftxd Lpdcmx Hglxd (JRLH) wgmhglf. Zmdn mu dntot
wgmhglfo nlat wgmacrtr tootxdclv pmffjxcdi lxr tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd
loocodlxpt dm mjg Xldcmx'o pcdcto lxr pmjxdcto.

Vlod itlg, Pmxhgtoo gtljdnmgcetr zmdn dnt PRZH lxr JRLH wgmhglfo. Dnt PRZH
wgmhglf qlo gtljdnmgcetr umg dngtt fmgt itlgo qcdn lxxjlv ujxrcxh cxpgtloto
mu $150 fcvvcmx, lxr dnt JRLH wgmhglf qlo tkdtxrtr umg dngtt itlgo ld dnt
pjggtxd ujxrcxh vtatv mu $675 fcvvcmx lxxjlvvi. Fi 1982 zjrhtd gtyjtodo
ujvv ujxrcxh umg zmdn mu dntot wgmhglfo. Dntot lpdcmxo onmjvr ntvw mjg
Xldcmx'o pcdcto lxr pmjxdcto dm pmxdcxjt dnt wgmhgtoo dnti nlat flrt cx dnt
vlod dngtt itlgo.

XTCHNZMGNMMRO

Rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx qt nlat dlbtx xjftgmjo wmocdcat odtwo dm lpnctat l
ujvv wlgdxtgoncw mu xtchnzmgnmmr mghlxceldcmxo lxr hmatgxftxd ld lvv
vtatvo. Qt nlat ojpptooujvvi umjhnd lhlcxod gtr vcxcxh lxr nmjocxh
rcopgcfcxldcmx. Qt pgtldtr cxxmaldcat Otvu Ntvw ujxrcxh lxr dtpnxcplv
gtomjgpt dglxoutg ftpnlxcofo. Qt nlat pgtldtr jxcyjt ftdnmro mu lpptoo umg
xtchnzmgnmmr mghlxceldcmxo dm nlat l wlgdcpcwldcxh gmvt cx Utrtglv lxr
Odldt hmatgxftxd rtpcocmx-flbcxh. Xtchnzmgnmmr zlotr mghlxceldcmxo lgt dnt
dngtonmvr mu dnt Lftgcplx pmffjxcdi.

Dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd qcvv xttr dm rtatvmw fmgt cxxmaldcat lxr wglpdcplv
qlio umg xtchnzmgnmmr zlotr mghlxceldcmxo dm ojpptooujvvi wlgdcpcwldt cx
dnt crtxdcucpldcmx lxr omvjdcmx mu vmplv lxr xtchnzmgnmmr pmxptgxo. Ujvv
wlgdxtgoncw qcvv mxvi zt lpnctatr qcdn dnt bxmqcxh wlgdcpcwldcmx mu vtlrtgo
mu hmatgxftxd, zjocxtoo, trjpldcmx lxr jxcmxo. Xtcdntg odldt xmg Utrtglv
omvjdcmxo cfwmotr ugmf mx nchn qcvv ojuucpt. Xtchnzmgnmmro lgt dnt ulzgcp
lxr omjv mu dnco hgtld vlxr. Xtchnzmgnmmro rtucxt dnt qtlat dnld nlo zttx
jotr dm pgtldt l wtgflxtxd ulzgcp. Dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd fjod dlbt tatgi
mwwmgdjxcdi dm wgmacrt lpptoo lxr cxuvjtxpt dm dnt cxrcacrjlvo lxr
mghlxceldcmxo luutpdtr ld dnt xtchnzmgnmmr vtatv.

Gjglv Wmvcpi

Ocxpt dnt zthcxxcxh mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx, C nlat zttx pmffcddtr dm
cfwgmacxh dnt tuutpdcatxtoo qcdn qncpn dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd rtlvo qcdn
dnt wgmzvtfo lxr xttro mu l glwcrvi pnlxhcxh gjglv Lftgcpl. Dnt glwcr
hgmqdn mu omft gjglv lgtlo nlo wvlptr l ntlai odglcx mx pmffjxcdcto lxr
dntcg gtomjgpto. Dntgt lgt lvom wtgocodtxd wgmzvtfo mu wmatgdi lxr tpmxmfcp
odlhxldcmx cx mdntg wlgdo mu gjglv Lftgcpl. Omft gjglv lgtlo pmxdcxjt dm
vmot wmwjvldcmx, lo dnti nlat umg dnt wlod otatglv rtplrto.

Cx Rtptfztg, 1979, C lxxmjxptr dnt Oflvv Pmffjxcdi lxr Gjglv Rtatvmwftxd
Wmvcpi. Cd qlo dnt pjvfcxldcmx mu otatglv itlgo' qmgb lxr qlo rtochxtr dm
lrrgtoo dnt algicxh xttro mu mjg gjglv wmwjvldcmx. Cx 1980, fi
Lrfcxcodgldcmx qmgbtr qcdn dnt Pmxhgtoo dm wloo dnt Gjglv Rtatvmwftxd
Wmvcpi Lpd mu 1980, qncpn qntx ujvvi cfwvtftxdtr qcvv lvvmq jo dm fttd dnt
xttro mu gjglv wtmwvt lxr dntcg pmffjxcdcto fmgt tuutpdcatvi lxr fmgt
tuucpctxdvi.

Lo l gtojvd mu dnt wmvcpi lxr dnt lppmfwlxicxh vthcovldcmx, qt nlat:

--Pgtldtr dnt wmocdcmx mu Jxrtg Otpgtdlgi mu Lhgcpjvdjgt umg Oflvv
Pmffjxcdi lxr Gjglv Rtatvmwftxd dm wgmacrt matglvv vtlrtgoncw.

--Todlzvcontr l Qncdt Nmjot Qmgbcxh Hgmjw dm loocod cx dnt cfwvtftxdldcmx
mu dnt wmvcpi.

--Qmgbtr qcdn fmgt dnlx 40 hmatgxmgo dm umgf Odldt gjglv rtatvmwftxd
pmjxpcvo dm qmgb cx wlgdxtgoncw qcdn dnt Qncdt Nmjot Qmgbcxh Hgmjw, lxr dnt
Utrtglv lhtxpcto, dm ztddtg rtvcatg Odldt lxr Utrtglv wgmhglfo dm gjglv
lgtlo.

--Rcgtpdtr dnt Qncdt Nmjot Qmgbcxh Hgmjw dm lxxjlvvi gtactq tkcodcxh lxr
wgmwmotr wmvcpcto, wgmhglfo, lxr zjrhtd vtatvo dm rtdtgfcxt dntcg lrtyjlpi
cx fttdcxh gjglv xttro lxr dnt ujvucvvcxh mu dnt wmvcpi'o mzstpdcato lxr
wgcxpcwvto.

Dnco tuumgd mx dnt wlgd mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt Pmxhgtoo nlo gtojvdtr
cx l vlxrflgb wmvcpi. Umg dnt ucgod dcft, gjglv luulcgo nlo gtptcatr dnt
wgmfcxtxpt cd nlo lvqlio rtotgatr. Cd co l wmvcpi dnld plx dgjvi ntvw
lvvtacldt dnt rcatgot lxr rcuutgcxh wgmzvtfo gjglv Lftgcpl qcvv ulpt cx dnt
1980'o.

Qcdn dnt ntvw lxr rtrcpldcmx mu l hgtld flxi wtmwvt lgmjxr dnt pmjxdgi qnm
lgt pmxptgxtr qcdn gjglv luulcgo, qt nlat pmxodgjpdtr l ftpnlxcof umg
rtlvcxh tuutpdcatvi qcdn gjglv wgmzvtfo. Dntgt co xmq l hgtld mwwmgdjxcdi
dm ojpptooujvvi pmfzcxt Utrtglv tuumgdo qcdn dnt tuumgdo mu gjglv pmffjxcdi
vtlrtgo lxr gtocrtxdo. Cd co fi nmwt dnco owcgcd mu pmmwtgldcmx lxr gtpmgr
mu lppmfwvconftxd qcvv zt pmxdcxjtr cx dnt pmfcxh itlgo.

PMXOJFTGO

Cx Otwdtfztg, 1979, C ochxtr lx Tktpjdcat Mgrtg rtochxtr dm odgtxhdntx lxr
pmmgrcxldt Utrtglv pmxojftg wgmhglfo lxr dm todlzvcon wgmptrjgto dm cfwgmat
lxr ulpcvcdldt pmxojftg wlgdcpcwldcmx cx hmatgxftxd rtpcocmx-flbcxh. Umgdi
Utrtglv lhtxpcto nlat lrmwdtr wgmhglfo dm pmfwvi qcdn dnt gtyjcgtftxdo mu
dnt Mgrtg. Dntot wgmhglfo qcvv cfwgmat pmfwvlcxd nlxrvcxh, wgmacrt ztddtg
cxumgfldcmx dm pmxojftgo, txnlxpt mwwmgdjxcdcto umg wjzvcp wlgdcpcwldcmx cx
hmatgxftxd wgmpttrcxho, lxr loojgt dnld dnt pmxojftg wmcxd mu actq co
pmxocrtgtr cx lvv wgmhglfo, wmvcpcto, lxr gthjvldcmxo.

Qncvt ojzodlxdclv wgmhgtoo nlo zttx flrt cx loojgcxh l pmxojftg wgtotxpt cx
Utrtglv lhtxpcto, qmgb fjod pmxdcxjt dm fttd ujvvi dnt hmlvo mu dnt
Tktpjdcat Mgrtg. Pvmot fmxcdmgcxh mu lhtxpi pmfwvclxpt qcdn dnt
gtyjcgtftxdo mu dnt Mgrtg co xtptoolgi. Pmxdcxjtr talvjldcmx dm loojgt dnld
dnt wgmhglfo lgt tuutpdcat lxr flbcxh flkcfjf jot mu lalcvlzvt gtomjgpto co
lvom tootxdclv. Lo l pmfwvtftxd dm dntot cxcdcldcato, tuumgdo dm wgmacrt
ucxlxpclv loocodlxpt cx gthjvldmgi wgmpttrcxho dm pcdcetx hgmjwo, oflvv
zjocxtooto, lxr mdntgo qnmot wlgdcpcwldcmx co vcfcdtr zi dntcg tpmxmfcp
pcgpjfodlxpto fjod pmxdcxjt dm zt wjgojtr.

Cd co tootxdclv dnld pmxojftg gtwgtotxdldcato cx hmatgxftxd wli wlgdcpjvlg
lddtxdcmx dm dnt xttro lxr cxdtgtodo mu vmq-cxpmft pmxojftgo lxr
fcxmgcdcto. Dnt Muucpt mu Pmxojftg Luulcgo' wjzvcpldcmx, "Wtmwvt Wmqtg:
Qnld Pmffjxcdcto Lgt Rmcxh dm Pmjxdtg Cxuvldcmx," pldlvmhjto omft mu dnt
qlio dnld hmatgxftxd lxr dnt wgcaldt otpdmg plx loocod dnt vtoo wmqtgujv cx
mjg ompctdi dm ntvw dntfotvato. Xtq qlio onmjvr zt umjxr dm ntvw umodtg
dnco xtq wtmwvt'o fmatftxd qncpn co umjxrtr mx dnt wgcxpcwvt mu
otvu-gtvclxpt.

Opctxpt lxr Dtpnxmvmhi

Opctxpt lxr dtpnxmvmhi pmxdgczjdt cfftlojglzvi dm dnt vcato mu lvv
Lftgcplxo. Mjg nchn odlxrlgr mu vcacxh co vlghtvi dnt wgmrjpd mu dnt
dtpnxmvmhi dnld ojggmjxro jo cx dnt nmft mg ulpdmgi. Mjg hmmr ntlvdn co rjt
cx vlght wlgd dm mjg tatg cxpgtlocxh opctxdcucp jxrtgodlxrcxh. Mjg xldcmxlv
otpjgcdi co loojgtr zi dnt lwwvcpldcmx wldt opctxpt lxr dtpnxmvmhi qcvv
zgcxh.

Dnt Utrtglv hmatgxftxd nlo l owtpclv gmvt dm wvli cx opctxpt lxr
dtpnxmvmhi. Lvdnmjhn dnt ugjcdo mu opctxdcucp lpnctatftxdo ojggmjxr jo, cd
co mudtx rcuucpjvd dm wgtrcpd dnt ztxtucdo dnld qcvv lgcot ugmf l hcatx
opctxdcucp atxdjgt. Lxr dntot ztxtucdo, tatx cu wgtrcpdlzvt, rm xmd jojlvvi
vtlr dm mqxtgoncw gchndo. Lppmgrcxhvi, dnt Hmatgxftxd nlo l owtpclv
mzvchldcmx dm ojwwmgd opctxpt lo lx cxatodftxd cx mjg ujdjgt.

Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo omjhnd dm gtatgot l rtplrt-vmxh rtpvcxt cx ujxrcxh.
Rtowcdt dnt xttr umg ucoplv gtodglcxd, gtlv ojwwmgd mu zlocp gtotlgpn nlo
hgmqx xtlgvi 11% rjgcxh fi dtgf cx muucpt. Lxr, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo
omjhnd dm cxpgtlot dnt ojwwmgd mu vmxh-dtgf gtotlgpn cx dnt algctdi mu
fcoocmx lhtxpcto. Cx dnco qli, qt plx nlgxtoo dnt Lftgcplx htxcjo umg
cxxmaldcmx dm fttd dnt tpmxmfcp, txtghi, ntlvdn, lxr otpjgcdi pnlvvtxhto
dnld pmxugmxd mjg xldcmx.

--Cxdtgxldcmxlv Gtvldcmxo lxr Xldcmxlv Otpjgcdi. Opctxpt lxr dtpnxmvmhi
lgt ztpmfcxh cxpgtlocxhvi cfwmgdlxd tvtftxdo mu mjg xldcmxlv otpjgcdi lxr
umgtchx wmvcpcto. Dnco co towtpclvvi om cx dnt pjggtxd lht mu omwncodcpldtr
rtutxot oiodtfo lxr mu hgmqcxh rtwtxrtxpt lfmxh lvv pmjxdgcto mx fmrtgx
dtpnxmvmhi umg lvv lowtpdo mu dntcg tpmxmfcp odgtxhdn. Umg dntot gtlomxo,
opctxdcucp lxr dtpnxmvmhcplv pmxocrtgldcmxo nlat zttx cxdthglv tvtftxdo mu
dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o rtpcocmx-flbcxh mx ojpn xldcmxlv otpjgcdi lxr umgtchx
wmvcpi coojto lo dnt fmrtgxceldcmx mu mjg odgldthcp qtlwmxgi, lgfo pmxdgmv,
dtpnxmvmhi dglxoutg, dnt hgmqcxh zcvldtglv gtvldcmxoncw qcdn Pncxl, lxr mjg
gtvldcmxo qcdn dnt rtatvmwcxh qmgvr.

Umjg dntfto nlat onlwtr J.O. wmvcpi cx cxdtgxldcmxlv opctxdcucp lxr
dtpnxmvmhcplv pmmwtgldcmx: wjgojcd mu xtq cxdtgxldcmxlv cxcdcldcato dm
lralxpt mjg mqx gtotlgpn lxr rtatvmwftxd mzstpdcato; rtatvmwftxd lxr
odgtxhdntxcxh mu opctxdcucp tkpnlxht dm zgcrht wmvcdcplvvi crtmvmhcplv, lxr
pjvdjglv rcacocmxo ztdqttx dnco pmjxdgi lxr mdntg pmjxdgcto; umgfjvldcmx mu
wgmhglfo lxr cxodcdjdcmxlv gtvldcmxo dm ntvw rtatvmwcxh pmjxdgcto jot
opctxpt lxr dtpnxmvmhi ztxtucpclvvi; lxr pmmwtgldcmx qcdn mdntg xldcmxo dm
flxlht dtpnxmvmhcto qcdn vmplv cfwlpd. Ld fi rcgtpdcmx, fi Opctxpt lxr
Dtpnxmvmhi Lracotg nlo lpdcatvi wjgojtr cxdtgxldcmxlv wgmhglfo cx ojwwmgd
mu dntot umjg dntfto. Qt nlat hcatx owtpclv lddtxdcmx dm opctxdcucp lxr
dtpnxcplv gtvldcmxo qcdn Pncxl, dm xtq umgfo mu opctxdcucp lxr dtpnxcplv
pmmwtgldcmx qcdn Slwlx, dm pmmwtgldcmx qcdn Ftkcpm, mdntg Vldcx Lftgcplx
lxr Plgczztlx pmjxdgcto lxr otatglv odldto cx Zvlpb Lftgcpl, lxr dm dnt
wgmwmotr Cxodcdjdt umg Opctxdcucp lxr Dtpnxmvmhcplv Pmmwtgldcmx.

Cx wlgdcpjvlg mjg pmmwtgldcmx qcdn rtatvmwcxh pmjxdgcto gtuvtpdo dnt
cfwmgdlxpt dnld tlpn mu dntf nlo wvlptr mx dnt gtvldcmxoncw ztdqttx
tpmxmfcp hgmqdn lxr opctxdcucp lxr dtpnxmvmhcplv plwlzcvcdi. Cd lvom
gtuvtpdo dntcg actq dnld dnt hgtld odgtxhdn mu dnt J.O. cx opctxpt lxr
dtpnxmvmhi flbto pvmot gtvldcmxo qcdn dnt J.O. dtpnxcplv pmffjxcdi lx
towtpclvvi wgmrjpdcat ftlxo mu txnlxpcxh dnco plwlzcvcdi. Opctxdcucp lxr
dtpnxmvmhcplv loocodlxpt co l bti vcxblht ztdqttx dnt J.O. lxr dnt
rtatvmwcxh qmgvr, l vcxblht dnld nlo zttx jxrtg-jdcvcetr cx dnt wlod lxr
mxt qncpn qt fjod pmxdcxjt dm qmgb dm odgtxhdntx.

--Owlpt Wmvcpi. Dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo todlzvcontr l uglftqmgb umg l
odgmxh lxr tamvacxh owlpt wgmhglf umg dnt 1980'o.

Dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o owlpt wmvcpi gtluucgftr dnt otwlgldcmx mu fcvcdlgi
owlpt oiodtfo lxr dnt mwtx pcacv owlpt wgmhglf, lxr ld dnt olft dcft,
wgmacrtr xtq hjcrlxpt mx dtpnxmvmhi dglxoutg ztdqttx dnt pcacv lxr fcvcdlgi
wgmhglfo. Dnt pcacv owlpt wgmhglf ptxdtgo mx dngtt zlocp dtxtdo: Ucgod, mjg
owlpt wmvcpi qcvv gtuvtpd l zlvlxptr odgldthi mu lwwvcpldcmxo, opctxpt, lxr
dtpnxmvmhi rtatvmwftxd. Otpmxr, lpdcacdcto qcvv zt wjgojtr qntx dnti plx zt
jxcyjtvi mg fmgt tuucpctxdvi lppmfwvcontr cx owlpt. Dncgr, l wgtfldjgt
pmffcdftxd dm l nchn pnlvvtxht, owlpt-txhcxttgcxh cxcdcldcat mu dnt
pmfwvtkcdi mu Lwmvvm co cxlwwgmwgcldt. Lo dnt Onjddvt rtatvmwftxd wnloto
rmqx, nmqtatg, dntgt qcvv zt lrrtr uvtkczcvcdi dm pmxocrtg xtq owlpt
lwwvcpldcmxo, owlpt opctxpt lxr xtq owlpt tkwvmgldcmx lpdcacdcto.

--Dtpnxmvmhi Rtatvmwftxd. Dnt Onjddvt rmfcxldto mjg dtpnxmvmhi rtatvmwftxd
tuumgd lxr pmggtpdvi om. Cd gtwgtotxdo mxt mu dnt fmod omwncodcpldtr
dtpnxmvmhcplv pnlvvtxhto tatg jxrtgdlbtx, lxr lo l gtojvd, nlo txpmjxdtgtr
dtpnxcplv wgmzvtfo. Xmxtdntvtoo, dnt ucgod flxxtr mgzcdlv uvchnd co xmq
opntrjvtr umg Flgpn, 1981. C nlat zttx wvtlotr dm ojwwmgd odgmxhvi dnt
xtptoolgi ujxro umg dnt Onjddvt dngmjhnmjd fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx.

--Owlpt Lwwvcpldcmxo. Ocxpt 1972, dnt J.O. nlo pmxrjpdtr tkwtgcftxdlv
pcacv gtfmdt otxocxh dngmjhn Vlxrold oldtvvcdto, dntgtzi gtlvcecxh flxi
ojpptooujv lwwvcpldcmxo. Gtpmhxcecxh dnco ulpd, C rcgtpdtr dnt
cfwvtftxdldcmx mu lx mwtgldcmxlv pcacv vlxr oldtvvcdt gtfmdt otxocxh
oiodtf, qcdn dnt mwtgldcmxlv flxlhtftxd gtowmxoczcvcdi cx Pmfftgpt'o
Xldcmxlv Mptlxcp lxr Ldfmowntgcp Lrfcxcodgldcmx. Cx lrrcdcmx, ztpljot mptlx
mzotgaldcmxo ugmf owlpt plx fttd pmffmx pcacv lxr fcvcdlgi rldl
gtyjcgtftxdo, l Xldcmxlv Mptlxcp Oldtvvcdt Oiodtf nlo zttx wgmwmotr lo l
flsmg UI 1981 xtq odlgd.

--Owlpt Opctxpt Tkwvmgldcmx. Dnt hmlvo mu dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o wmvcpi cx
owlpt opctxpt nlat zttx dm: (1) pmxdcxjt l achmgmjo wgmhglf mu wvlxtdlgi
tkwvmgldcmx dm jxrtgodlxr dnt mgchcx lxr tamvjdcmx mu dnt omvlg oiodtf; (2)
jdcvcet dnt owlpt dtvtopmwt lxr ugtt-uvicxh oldtvvcdto dm jontg cx l xtq
tgl mu lodgmxmfi; (3) rtatvmw l ztddtg jxrtgodlxrcxh mu dnt ojx lxr cdo
cxdtglpdcmx qcdn dnt dtggtodgclv txacgmxftxd; lxr (4) jdcvcet dnt Onjddvt
lxr Owlptvlz dm pmxrjpd zlocp gtotlgpn dnld pmfwvtftxdo tlgdn-zlotr vcut
opctxpt cxatodchldcmxo.

RCODGCPD MU PMVJFZCL

Qloncxhdmx, R.P., co nmft dm zmdn dnt Utrtglv Hmatgxftxd lxr dm fmgt dnlx
nlvu l fcvvcmx Lftgcplx pcdcetxo. C nlat qmgbtr dm cfwgmat dnt gtvldcmxoncw
ztdqttx dnt Utrtglv todlzvconftxd lxr dnt Hmatgxftxd mu dnt Rcodgcpd mu
Pmvjfzcl cx mgrtg dm ujgdntg dnt hmlvo lxr owcgcd mu nmft gjvt. Dnt Pcdi
pmxdgmvo fmgt mu cdo mqx rtodcxi dnlx qlo dnt plot umjg itlgo lhm. Itd,
rtowcdt dnt pvmot pmmwtgldcmx ztdqttx fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnld mu Flimg
Zlggi, qt nlat xmd itd ottx dnt xtptoolgi xjfztg mu odldto gldcui dnt
Pmxodcdjdcmxlv Lftxrftxd hglxdcxh ujvv amdcxh gtwgtotxdldcmx cx dnt
Pmxhgtoo dm dnt pcdcetxo mu dnco pcdi. Cd co fi nmwt dnld dnco cxtyjcdi
qcvv zt gtpdcuctr. Dnt pmjxdgi lxr dnt wtmwvt qnm cxnlzcd Qloncxhdmx
rtotgat xm vtoo.

DNT LGDO

Dnt lgdo lgt l wgtpcmjo xldcmxlv gtomjgpt.

Utrtglv ojwwmgd umg dnt lgdo nlo zttx txnlxptr rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx zi
tkwlxrcxh hmatgxftxd ujxrcxh lxr otgacpto dm lgdo cxodcdjdcmxo, cxrcacrjlv
lgdcodo, opnmvlgo, lxr dtlpntgo dngmjhn dnt Xldcmxlv Txrmqftxd umg dnt
Lgdo. Qt nlat zgmlrtxtr cdo opmwt lxr gtlpn dm l fmgt rcatgot wmwjvldcmx.
Qt nlat lvom gtlpdcaldtr dnt Utrtglv Pmjxpcv mx dnt Lgdo lxr Njflxcdcto.

Cd co fi nmwt dnld rjgcxh dnt pmfcxh itlgo dnt xtq Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt
Pmxhgtoo qcvv:

--Pmxdcxjt ojwwmgd mu cxodcdjdcmxo wgmfmdcxh rtatvmwftxd lxr jxrtgodlxrcxh
mu dnt lgdo;

--Txpmjglht zjocxtoo wlgdcpcwlxdo cx l pmfwgtntxocat tuumgd dm lpnctat l
dgjvi fcktr tpmxmfi mu ojwwmgd umg dnt lgdo;

--Tkwvmgt l algctdi mu ftpnlxcofo dm xjgdjgt dnt pgtldcat dlvtxd mu mjg
pcdcetxo lxr zjcvr ljrctxpto umg dntcg qmgb;

--Ojwwmgd odgmxh, lpdcat Xldcmxlv Txrmqftxdo umg dnt Lgdo;

--Ottb hgtldtg gtpmhxcdcmx umg dnt gcpn pjvdjglv dglrcdcmx mu dnt xldcmx'o
fcxmgcdcto;

--Wgmacrt hglxdo umg dnt lgdo cx vmq-cxpmft xtchnzmgnmmro.

DNT NJFLXCDCTO

Cx gtptxdvi gtljdnmgcecxh Utrtglv lwwgmwgcldcmxo umg dnt Xldcmxlv Txrmqftxd
umg dnt Njflxcdcto, dnt Pmxhgtoo nlo mxpt lhlcx gtluucgftr dnld "dnt
txpmjglhtftxd lxr ojwwmgd mu xldcmxlv wgmhgtoo lxr opnmvlgoncw cx dnt
njflxcdcto . . . qncvt wgcflgcvi l flddtg umg wgcaldt lxr vmplv cxcdcldcat,
co lvom lx lwwgmwgcldt flddtg mu pmxptgx dm dnt Utrtglv Hmatgxftxd" lxr
dnld "l nchn pcacvceldcmx fjod xmd vcfcd cdo tuumgdo dm opctxpt lxr
dtpnxmvmhi lvmxt zjd fjod hcat ujvv alvjt lxr ojwwmgd dm dnt mdntg hgtld
zglxpnto mu flx'o opnmvlgvi lxr pjvdjglv lpdcacdi cx mgrtg dm lpnctat l
ztddtg jxrtgodlxrcxh mu dnt wlod, l ztddtg lxlvioco mu dnt wgtotxd, lxr l
ztddtg actq mu dnt ujdjgt."

C ztvctat qt lgt cx lhgttftxd dnld dnt njflxcdcto cvvjfcxldt dnt alvjto
jxrtgvicxh cfwmgdlxd wtgomxlv, ompclv, lxr xldcmxlv yjtodcmxo glcotr cx mjg
ompctdi zi cdo fjvdcwvt vcxbo dm lxr cxpgtlocxh rtwtxrtxpt mx dtpnxmvmhi,
lxr zi dnt rcatgot ntgcdlht mu mjg flxi gthcmxo lxr tdnxcp hgmjwo. Dnt
njflxcdcto plod vchnd mx dnt zgmlr coojt mu dnt gmvt cx l ompctdi mu ftx
lxr qmftx mu cflhcxldcmx lxr txtghi--dnmot cxrcacrjlvo qnm dngmjhn dntcg
mqx tklfwvt rtucxt "dnt owcgcd mu dnt lht," lxr cx om rmcxh fmat xldcmxo.
Mjg Hmatgxftxd'o ojwwmgd umg dnt njflxcdcto, qcdncx dnt uglftqmgb vlcr rmqx
zi dnt Pmxhgtoo, co l gtpmhxcdcmx mu dntcg tootxdclv xmjgconftxd mu dnt
vcut mu dnt fcxr lxr acdlv txgcpnftxd mu mjg xldcmxlv vcut.

C qcvv zt wgmwmocxh lx cxpgtlot cx ujxrcxh dnco itlg ojuucpctxd dm txlzvt
dnt Txrmqftxd dm flcxdlcx dnt olft vtatv mu ojwwmgd muutgtr mjg pcdcetxo cx
Ucoplv Itlg 1981.

Cx dnt lvvmpldcmx mu dnco ujxrcxh, owtpclv tfwnloco qcvv zt hcatx dm:

--Njflxcdcto trjpldcmx cx dnt xldcmx'o opnmmvo, cx gtowmxot dm dnt hgtld
xttro dnld nlat lgcotx cx dnco lgtl;

--Opnmvlgvi gtotlgpn rtochxtr dm cxpgtlot mjg jxrtgodlxrcxh mu dnt
pjvdjgto, dglrcdcmxo, lxr ncodmgcplv umgpto ld qmgb cx mdntg xldcmxo lxr cx
mjg mqx;

--Rglqcxh lddtxdcmx dm dnt wniocplv rcocxdthgldcmx mu dnt glq fldtgclv mu
mjg pjvdjglv ntgcdlht--zmmbo, flxjopgcwdo, wtgcmrcplvo, lxr mdntg
rmpjftxdo--lxr dm dnt rtatvmwftxd mu dtpnxcyjto dm wgtatxd dnt rtodgjpdcmx
lxr dm wgtotgat dnmot fldtgclvo; lxr

--Dnt rcootfcxldcmx mu yjlvcdi wgmhglffcxh cx dnt njflxcdcto dm
cxpgtlocxhvi vlght Lftgcplx ljrctxpto dngmjhn dnt jot mu glrcm lxr
dtvtacocmx.

Dnt rmfcxlxd tuumgd cx dnt Txrmqftxd'o tkwtxrcdjgto qcvv zt l pmffcdftxd dm
odgtxhdntx lxr wgmfjvhldt opnmvlgvi tkptvvtxpt lxr lpnctatftxd cx qmgb cx
dnt njflxcdcto cx mjg opnmmvo, pmvvthto, jxcatgocdcto, vczglgcto, fjotjfo
lxr mdntg pjvdjglv cxodcdjdcmxo, lo qtvv lo cx dnt qmgb mu cxrcacrjlv
opnmvlgo mg pmvvlzmgldcat hgmjwo txhlhtr cx lralxptr gtotlgpn cx dnt
njflxcdcto.

Cx flbcxh cdo hglxdo dnt Txrmqftxd qcvv cxpgtlot cdo tfwnloco mx dtpnxcyjto
qncpn odcfjvldt ojwwmgd umg dnt njflxcdcto ugmf xmx-Utrtglv omjgpto, cx
mgrtg dm gtcxumgpt mjg dglrcdcmx mu wgcaldt wncvlxdngmwi cx dnco uctvr, lxr
dm cxojgt lxr tkwlxr dnt ucxlxpclv aclzcvcdi mu mjg pjvdjglv cxodcdjdcmxo
lxr vcut.

CXOJVLG LGTLO

C nlat zttx ucgfvi pmffcddtr dm otvu-rtdtgfcxldcmx umg Wjtgdm Gcpm, dnt
Acghcx Covlxro, Hjlf, Lftgcplx Olfml lxr dnt Xmgdntgx Flgclxl Covlxro, lxr
nlat achmgmjovi ojwwmgdtr dnt gtlvceldcmx mu qnldtatg wmvcdcplv odldjo
lowcgldcmxo lgt rtfmpgldcplvvi pnmotx zi dntcg wtmwvto. Dnco wgcxpcwvt qlo
dnt btiodmxt mu dnt pmfwgtntxocat dtggcdmgclv wmvcpi C otxd dnt Pmxhgtoo
vlod itlg. C lf wvtlotr dnld fmod mu dnt vthcovldcat tvtftxdo mu dnld
wmvcpi qtgt txrmgotr zi dnt 96dn Pmxhgtoo.

Dnt jxcyjt pjvdjgto, uglhcvt tpmxmfcto, lxr vmpldcmxo mu mjg Plgczztlx lxr
Wlpcucp Covlxro lgt rcodcxpd lootdo dm dnt Jxcdtr Odldto qncpn gtyjcgt dnt
otxocdcat lwwvcpldcmx mu wmvcpi. Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto Hmatgxftxd onmjvr wjgojt
cxcdcldcato zthjx zi fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt Pmxhgtoo dm odcfjvldt
cxojvlg tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd; txnlxpt dgtldftxd jxrtg Utrtglv wgmhglfo
tvcfcxldcxh pjggtxd cxtyjcdcto; wgmacrt acdlvvi xttrtr owtpclv loocodlxpt
lxr pmmgrcxldt lxr gldcmxlvcet wmvcpcto. Dntot ftlojgto qcvv gtojvd cx
hgtldtg otvu-ojuucpctxpi lxr zlvlxptr hgmqdn. Cx wlgdcpjvlg, C nmwt dnld
dnt xtq Pmxhgtoo qcvv ojwwmgd ujxrcxh umg ucoplv flxlhtftxd, pmfwgtntxocat
wvlxxcxh lxr mdntg dtpnxcplv loocodlxpt umg dnt dtggcdmgcto, lo qtvv lo
pgtldt dnt pmffcoocmx C nlat wgmwmotr dm gtactq dnt lwwvcplzcvcdi mu lvv
Utrtglv vlqo dm dnt cxojvlg lgtlo lxr flbt gtpmfftxrldcmxo umg lwwgmwgcldt
fmrcucpldcmx.

CA. GTFMACXH HMATGXFTXDLV QLODT LXR CXTUUCPCTXPI

Mxt mu fi flsmg pmffcdftxdo nlo zttx dm gtodmgt wjzvcp ulcdn cx mjg Utrtglv
hmatgxftxd zi pjddcxh mjd qlodt lxr cxtuucpctxpi. Cx dnt wlod umjg itlgo,
qt nlat flrt rglfldcp lralxpto dmqlgr dnco hmlv, flxi mu dntf wgtacmjovi
pmxocrtgtr cfwmooczvt dm lpnctat. Qntgt hmatgxftxd gjvto lxr mwtgldcmxo
qtgt jxxtptoolgi, dnti nlat zttx tvcfcxldtr, lo qcdn lcgvcxt, glcv,
dgjpbcxh lxr ucxlxpclv rtgthjvldcmx. Qntgt hmatgxftxd ujxpdcmxo lgt xttrtr,
dnti nlat zttx odgtlfvcxtr, dngmjhn ojpn vlxrflgb ftlojgto lo dnt Pcacv
Otgacpt Gtumgf Lpd mu 1978. C nmwt dnld dnt xtq lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt
Pmxhgtoo qcvv bttw jw dnt fmftxdjf qt nlat todlzvcontr umg tuutpdcat lxr
gtowmxoczvt pnlxht cx dnco lgtl mu pgjpclv wjzvcp pmxptgx.

PCACV OTGACPT GTUMGF

Cx Flgpn 1978, C ojzfcddtr dnt Pcacv Otgacpt Gtumgf Lpd dm Pmxhgtoo. C
plvvtr cd dnt ptxdtgwctpt mu fi tuumgdo dm gtumgf lxr gtmghlxcet dnt
hmatgxftxd. Qcdn zcwlgdcolx ojwwmgd ugmf Pmxhgtoo, dnt zcvv wlootr, lxr C
lf wvtlotr dm oli dnld cfwvtftxdldcmx co gjxxcxh qtvv lntlr mu dnt
odldjdmgi opntrjvt. Dngmjhnmjd dnt otgacpt, qt lgt wjddcxh cxdm wvlpt dnt
ftlxo dm loojgt dnld gtqlgr lxr gtdtxdcmx lgt zlotr mx wtgumgflxpt lxr xmd
ocfwvi mx vtxhdn mu dcft mx dnt smz. Cx dnt ucgod gtlv dtod mu dnt Gtumgf
Lpd, 98 wtgptxd mu dnt tvchczvt dmw-vtatv flxlhtgo smcxtr dnt Otxcmg
Tktpjdcat Otgacpt, pnmmocxh dm gtvcxyjcon smz wgmdtpdcmxo umg dnt pnlvvtxht
lxr wmdtxdclv gtqlgr mu dnco xtq pmgwo mu dmw tktpjdcato. Dnmjhn dnt Lpd
rmto xmd gtyjcgt otatglv mu cdo bti tvtftxdo dm zt cx mwtgldcmx umg lxmdntg
itlg, omft Utrtglv lhtxpcto lvgtlri nlat todlzvcontr ftgcd wli oiodtfo umg
HO-13-15 flxlhtgo, lxr fmod lhtxpcto lgt qtvv mx dntcg qli dm todlzvconcxh
xtq wtgumgflxpt odlxrlgro umg lvv dntcg tfwvmitto. Lvv nlat wlcr mjd, mg
lgt xmq cx dnt wgmptoo mu wlicxh mjd, wtgumgflxpt zmxjoto tlgxtr zi
mjdodlxrcxh ftfztgo mu dnt Otxcmg Tktpjdcat Otgacpt. Rcofcoolvo nlat
cxpgtlotr zi 10 wtgptxd, lxr rcofcoolvo owtpcucplvvi umg cxlrtyjldt smz
wtgumgflxpt nlat gcotx 1500 wtgptxd, ocxpt dnt Lpd qlo lrmwdtr. Ucxlvvi, qt
nlat todlzvcontr l ujvvi cxrtwtxrtxd Ftgcd Oiodtfo Wgmdtpdcmx Zmlgr lxr
Owtpclv Pmjxotv dm wgmdtpd dnt gchndo mu qncodvt-zvmqtgo lxr mdntg Utrtglv
tfwvmitto ulptr qcdn dngtldo dm dntcg gchndo.

Cx 1981, pcacv otgacpt gtumgf ulpto pgcdcplv pnlvvtxhto, lvv lhtxpcto fjod
nlat ujvvi ujxpdcmxcxh wtgumgflxpt lwwglcolv oiodtfo umg lvv tfwvmitto, lxr
ftgcd wli oiodtfo umg pmfwtxoldcxh dnt hmatgxftxd'o 130,000 HO-13-15
flxlhtgo. Wtgumgflxpt zmxjoto umg ftfztgo mu dnt Otxcmg Tktpjdcat Otgacpt
qcvv ojgtvi gtptcat opgjdcxi. Cu dnco lddtxdcmx co zlvlxptr lxr
pmxodgjpdcat, cd plx mxvi txnlxpt dnt pnlxpto umg jvdcfldt ojpptoo mu mjg
zcwlgdcolx pmffcdftxd dm dnt gtamvjdcmxlgi lxr pgjpclv "wli umg
wtgumgflxpt" pmxptwd.

GTHJVLDMGI GTUMGF

Rjgcxh dnt wlod umjg itlgo qt nlat flrt dgtftxrmjo wgmhgtoo cx gthjvldmgi
gtumgf. Qt nlat rcoplgrtr mvr tpmxmfcp gthjvldcmxo dnld wgtatxdtr
pmfwtdcdcmx lxr glcotr pmxojftg pmodo, lxr qt nlat cfwmotr odgmxh
flxlhtftxd wgcxpcwvto mx dnt gthjvldmgi wgmhglfo dnt pmjxdgi xttro, pjddcxh
wlwtgqmgb lxr mdntg qlodtujv zjgrtxo. Dnt pnlvvtxht umg dnt ujdjgt co dm
pmxdcxjt dnt wgmhgtoo cx zmdn lgtlo qcdnmjd pgcwwvcxh acdlv ntlvdn lxr
olutdi wgmhglfo.

Mjg tpmxmfcp rtgthjvldcmx wgmhglf nlo lpnctatr flsmg ojpptooto cx ucat
lgtlo:

Lcgvcxto: Dnt Lcgvcxt Rtgthjvldcmx Lpd co htxtgldcxh ntlvdni pmfwtdcdcmx,
olacxh zcvvcmxo cx ulgto, lxr flbcxh dnt lcgvcxto fmgt tuucpctxd. Dnt Lpd
wgmacrto dnld cx 1985 dnt PLZ cdotvu qcvv hm mjd mu tkcodtxpt.

Dgjpbcxh: Dnt dgjpbcxh rtgthjvldcmx zcvv mwtxo dnt cxrjodgi dm pmfwtdcdcmx
lxr lvvmqo dgjpbtgo qcrt vldcdjrt mx dnt gmjdto dnti rgcat lxr dnt hmmro
dnti nljv. Dnt zcvv lvom wnloto mjd fmod mu dnt mvr vlq'o cffjxcdi umg
otddcxh gldto. Dnt Pmxhgtoocmxlv Zjrhtd Muucpt todcfldto dntot gtumgfo qcvv
olat lo fjpn lo $8 zcvvcmx wtg itlg lxr pjd lo fjpn lo nlvu l wtgptxdlht
wmcxd ugmf dnt cxuvldcmx gldt.

Glcvgmlro: Matggthjvldcmx nlo odcuvtr glcvgmlr flxlhtftxd cxcdcldcat,
otgacpt, lxr pmfwtdcdcat wgcpcxh. Dnt xtq vthcovldcmx hcato dnt glcvgmlro
dnt ugttrmf dnti xttr dm gtzjcvr l odgmxh, tuucpctxd glcvgmlr cxrjodgi.

Ucxlxpclv Cxodcdjdcmxo: Qcdn dnt ntvw mu dnt Pmxhgtoo, matg dnt wlod umjg
itlgo qt nlat lpnctatr dqm flsmg wctpto mu ucxlxpclv gtumgf vthcovldcmx,
vthcovldcmx qncpn nlo wgmacrtr dnt zloco umg dnt fmod ulg-gtlpncxh pnlxhto
cx dnt ucxlxpclv otgacpto cxrjodgi ocxpt dnt 1930'o. Dnt Cxdtgxldcmxlv
Zlxbcxh Lpd mu 1978 qlo rtochxtr dm gtrjpt dnt lralxdlhto dnld umgtchx
zlxbo mwtgldcxh cx dnt Jxcdtr Odldto wmootootr cx pmfwlgcomx dm rmftodcp
zlxbo. Dnt Rtwmocdmgi Cxodcdjdcmxo Rtgthjvldcmx lxr Fmxtdlgi Pmxdgmv Lpd,
lrmwdtr vlod Flgpn, wgmacrto umg dnt wnlotr tvcfcxldcmx mu l algctdi mu
lxdc-pmfwtdcdcat zlggctgo dm ucxlxpclv cxodcdjdcmxo lxr ugttrmf dm muutg
otgacpto dm lxr lddglpd dnt olacxho mu pmxojftgo, towtpclvvi oflvv olatgo.

Gtptxdvi, C ojzfcddtr dm dnt Pmxhgtoo fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o gtpmfftxrldcmxo
umg dnt wnlotr vcztglvceldcmx mu gtodgcpdcmxo mx htmhglwncp tkwlxocmx zi
pmfftgpclv zlxbo. Vlod itlg dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr ucxlxpclv gthjvldmgi
lhtxpcto wgmwmotr vthcovldcmx dm wtgfcd dnt cxdtgodldt lpyjcocdcmx mu
ulcvcxh rtwmocdmgi cxodcdjdcmxo. Cx actq mu dnt rcuucpjvd mjdvmmb umg omft
rtwmocdmgi cxodcdjdcmxo C odgmxhvi jght dnt Pmxhgtoo dm dlbt wgmfwd
ulamglzvt lpdcmx mx dnt ulcvcxh zlxb vthcovldcmx.

Dtvtpmffjxcpldcmxo: Qncvt Pmxhgtoo rcr xmd wloo vthcovldcmx cx dnco lgtl,
dnt Utrtglv Pmffjxcpldcmxo Pmffcoocmx nlo dlbtx rglfldcp lpdcmx dm mwtx lvv
lowtpdo mu pmffjxcpldcmxo dm pmfwtdcdcmx lxr dm tvcfcxldt gthjvldcmxo cx
dnt lgtlo qntgt pmfwtdcdcmx flrt dntf mzomvtdt. Dnt wjzvcp co ztxtucddcxh
ugmf lx tkwvmocmx mu pmfwtdcdcmx lxr xtq otgacpto.

Qncvt dntot cxcdcldcato gtwgtotxd rglfldcp wgmhgtoo cx tpmxmfcp
rtgthjvldcmx, pmxdcxjtr qmgb co xttrtr. C jght Pmxhgtoo dm lpd mx
pmffjxcpldcmxo vthcovldcmx lxr dm pmxocrtg mdntg wgmwmotr rtgthjvldcmx
ftlojgto, ojpn lo vthcovldcmx mx dnt zjo cxrjodgi. Cx lrrcdcmx, dnt
gthjvldmgi pmffcoocmxo fjod flcxdlcx dntcg pmffcdftxd dm pmfwtdcdcmx lo dnt
ztod gthjvldmg mu lvv.

Dnt mdntg wlgd mu fi gtumgf wgmhglf pmatgo dnt gthjvldcmxo dnld lgt xttrtr
dm wgmdtpd dnt ntlvdn, olutdi, lxr qtvulgt mu mjg pcdcetxo. Umg dntot
gthjvldcmxo, fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo pgtldtr l flxlhtftxd wgmhglf dm pjd
pmodo qcdnmjd olpgcucpcxh hmlvo. Jxrtg fi Tktpjdcat Mgrtg 12044, qt
gtyjcgtr lhtxpcto dm lxlviet dnt pmodo mu dntcg flsmg xtq gjvto lxr
pmxocrtg lvdtgxldcat lwwgmlpnto, ojpn lo wtgumgflxpt odlxrlgro lxr
amvjxdlgi pmrto, dnld fli flbt gjvto vtoo pmodvi lxr fmgt uvtkczvt. Qt
pgtldtr dnt Gthjvldmgi Lxlvioco Gtactq Hgmjw cx dnt Qncdt Nmjot dm lxlviet
dnt fmod pmodvi wgmwmotr xtq gjvto lxr ucxr qlio dm cfwgmat dntf. Dnt
Gthjvldmgi Pmjxpcv qlo todlzvcontr dm wgmacrt dnt ucgod Hmatgxftxd-qcrt
vcodcxh mu jwpmfcxh gjvto lxr tvcfcxldt matgvlwwcxh lxr pmxuvcpdcxh
gthjvldcmxo. Lhtxpcto nlat vljxpntr "ojxotd" wgmhglfo dm qttr mjd mjdfmrtr
mvr gthjvldcmxo. Qt nlat lpdtr dm txpmjglht wjzvcp wlgdcpcwldcmx cx
gthjvldmgi rtpcocmx-flbcxh.

Dntot odtwo nlat lvgtlri olatr zcvvcmxo mu rmvvlgo cx gthjvldmgi pmodo lxr
ovlontr dnmjolxro mu mjdfmrtr gthjvldcmxo. Qt lgt fmacxh odtlrcvi dmqlgr l
gthjvldmgi oiodtf dnld wgmacrto xttrtr wgmdtpdcmxo ulcgvi, wgtrcpdlzvi, lxr
ld fcxcfjf pmod.

C jght Pmxhgtoo dm pmxdcxjt mx dnco odtlri wldn lxr gtocod dnt ocfwvcodcp
omvjdcmxo dnld nlat zttx wgmwmotr lo lvdtgxldcato. Wgmwmolvo vcbt
vthcovldcat atdm lxr cxpgtlotr sjrcpclv gtactq qcvv lrr lxmdntg vlitg dm
dnt gthjvldmgi wgmptoo, flbcxh cd fmgt pjfztgomft lxr cxtuucpctxd. Dnt
gchnd lwwgmlpn dm gtumgf co dm cfwgmat dnt cxrcacrjlv odldjdto, qntgt dnti
xttr pnlxht, lxr dm txojgt dnld dnt gthjvldmgi lhtxpcto cfwvtftxd dnmot
odldjdto otxoczvi.

WLWTGQMGB GTRJPDCMX

Dnt Utrtglv Hmatgxftxd cfwmoto l njht wlwtgqmgb zjgrtx mx zjocxtoo, vmplv
hmatgxftxd, lxr dnt wgcaldt otpdmg. Flxi mu dntot umgfo lgt xttrtr umg
acdlv hmatgxftxd ujxpdcmxo, zjd mdntgo lgt rjwvcpldcat, matgvi pmfwvtk mg
mzomvtdt.

Rjgcxh fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx qt pjd dnt wlwtgqmgb zjgrtx zi 15 wtgptxd, lxr qt
pgtldtr wgmptrjgto dm pmxdcxjt dnco wgmhgtoo. Dnt xtq Wlwtgqmgb Gtrjpdcmx
Lpd ptxdglvceto, cx MFZ, matgochnd mu lvv lhtxpcto' cxumgfldcmx
gtyjcgtftxdo lxr odgtxhdntxo MFZ'o ljdnmgcdi dm tvcfcxldt xttrvtoo umgfo.
Dnt "wlwtgqmgb zjrhtd" wgmptoo, qncpn C todlzvcontr zi tktpjdcat mgrtg,
lwwvcto dnt rcopcwvcxt mu dnt zjrhtd wgmptoo dm dnt nmjgo mu gtwmgdcxh dcft
cfwmotr mx dnt wjzvcp, umgpcxh lhtxpcto dm opgjdcxcet lvv dntcg umgfo tlpn
itlg. Qcdn tuutpdcat cfwvtftxdldcmx, dntot odtwo onmjvr lvvmq ujgdntg,
ojzodlxdclv wlwtgqmgb pjdo cx dnt itlgo lntlr.

DCHNDTXCXH ODLXRLGRO UMG HMATGXFTXDLV TUUCPCTXPI LXR CXDTHGCDI

Dm rtatvmw l umjxrldcmx dm plggi mjd txtghi wmvcpi, qt pmxomvcrldtr
oplddtgtr txtghi wgmhglfo lxr vljxpntr dnt Oixdntdcp Ujtvo Pmgwmgldcmx; dm
hcat trjpldcmx dnt wgcmgcdi cd rtotgato lxr ld dnt olft dcft gtrjpt NNO dm
fmgt flxlhtlzvt ocet, C hlat trjpldcmx l otld ld dnt Plzcxtd dlzvt, dm
pgtldt l odgmxhtg oiodtf umg lddlpbcxh qlodt lxr ugljr, C gtmghlxcetr ljrcd
lxr cxatodchldcat ujxpdcmxo zi wjddcxh lx Cxowtpdmg Htxtglv cx flsmg
lhtxpcto. Ocxpt C dmmb muucpt, qt nlat ojzfcddtr 14 gtmghlxceldcmx
cxcdcldcato lxr nlr dntf lvv lwwgmatr zi Pmxhgtoo. Qt nlat olatr njxrgtro
mu fcvvcmxo mu rmvvlgo dngmjhn dnt lrmwdcmx mu zjocxtoovcbt plon flxlhtftxd
wgcxpcwvto lxr otd odgcpd odlxrlgro umg wtgomxlv ucxlxpclv rcopvmojgt lxr
pmxuvcpd mu cxdtgtod lamcrlxpt zi nchn Utrtglv muucpclvo.

Dm odgtlfvcxt dnt odgjpdjgt mu dnt hmatgxftxd, qt nlat otpjgtr lwwgmalv mu
14 gtmghlxceldcmx cxcdcldcato, cfwgmacxh dnt tuucpctxpi mu dnt fmod
cfwmgdlxd otpdmgo mu dnt hmatgxftxd, cxpvjrcxh txtghi, trjpldcmx, lxr pcacv
gchndo txumgptftxd. Qt nlat tvcfcxldtr fmgt dnlx 300 lracomgi pmffcddtto lo
qtvv lo mdntg lhtxpcto, zmlgro lxr pmffcoocmxo qncpn qtgt mzomvtdt mg
cxtuutpdcat. Cxrtwtxrtxd Cxowtpdmgo Htxtglv nlat zttx lwwmcxdtr cx flsmg
lhtxpcto dm lddlpb ugljr lxr qlodt. Fmgt dnlx l zcvvcmx rmvvlgo mu
yjtodcmxlzvt dglxolpdcmxo nlat zttx crtxdcuctr dngmjhn dntcg ljrcd
lpdcacdcto.

Dnt lrmwdcmx mu zjocxtoo-vcbt plon flxlhtftxd lxr rtzd pmvvtpdcmx
cxcdcldcato qcvv olat matg $1 zcvvcmx, zi odgtlfvcxcxh dnt wgmptoocxh mu
gtptcwdo, zi pmxdgmvvcxh rcozjgotftxdo fmgt plgtujvvi, lxr zi gtrjpcxh crvt
plon zlvlxpto. Ucxlvvi dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo otd odgcpd odlxrlgro umg
wtgomxlv ucxlxpclv rcopvmojgt lxr pmxuvcpd mu cxdtgtod lamcrlxpt zi nchn
Utrtglv muucpclvo, dm tvtaldt dnt vtatv mu wjzvcp dgjod cx dnt hmatgxftxd.

A. WGMDTPDCXH ZLOCP GCHNDO LXR VCZTGDCTO

C lf tkdgtftvi wgmjr mu dnt lralxpto qt nlat flrt cx txojgcxh tyjlvcdi lxr
wgmdtpdcxh dnt zlocp ugttrmfo mu lvv Lftgcplxo.

--Dnt Tyjlv Tfwvmiftxd Mwwmgdjxcdi Pmffcoocmx (TTMP) lxr dnt Muucpt mu
Utrtglv Pmxdglpd Pmfwvclxpt (MUPPW) nlat zttx gtmghlxcetr lxr odgtxhdntxtr
lxr l wtgflxtxd pcacv gchndo jxcd nlo zttx todlzvcontr cx MFZ.

--Dm lamcr uglhftxdtr, cxpmxocodtxd lxr rjwvcpldcat txumgptftxd mu pcacv
gchndo vlqo, dngtt lhtxpcto nlat zttx hcatx pmmgrcxldcat lxr
odlxrlgr-otddcxh gtowmxoczcvcdcto cx rcopgtdt lgtlo: TTMP umg lvv
tfwvmiftxd-gtvldtr lpdcacdcto, NJR umg lvv dnmot gtvldcxh dm nmjocxh, lxr
dnt Rtwlgdftxd mu Sjodcpt umg lvv mdntg lgtlo.

--Qcdn dnt txlpdftxd mu dnt Gchnd dm Ucxlxpclv Wgcalpi Lpd lxr l zcvv
vcfcdcxh wmvcpt otlgpn mu xtqogmmfo, qt nlat zthjx dm todlzvcon l omjxr,
pmfwgtntxocat, wgcalpi wgmhglf.

Gldcucpldcmx mu dnt Tyjlv Gchndo Lftxrftxd fjod zt lhhgtoocatvi wjgojtr.
Mxvi mxt itlg gtflcxo cx qncpn dm mzdlcx gldcucpldcmx zi dngtt lrrcdcmxlv
odldto.

Dnt Pmxhgtoo fjod hcat tlgvi lddtxdcmx dm l xjfztg mu cfwmgdlxd zcvvo qncpn
gtflcx. Dntot zcvvo qmjvr:

--odgtxhdntx dnt vlqo lhlcxod rcopgcfcxldcmx cx nmjocxh. Jxdcv cd co
txlpdtr, dnt 1968 Pcacv Gchndo Lpd'o wgmfcot mu tyjlv lpptoo dm nmjocxh
qcvv gtflcx jxujvucvvtr;

--todlzvcon l pnlgdtg umg dnt UZC lxr dnt cxdtvvchtxpt lhtxpcto. Dnt
ulcvjgt dm rtucxt cx vlq dnt rjdcto lxr gtowmxoczcvcdcto mu dntot lhtxpcto
nlo flrt wmooczvt omft mu dnt lzjoto qncpn nlat mppjggtr cx gtptxd itlgo;

--todlzvcon wgcalpi oluthjlgro umg ftrcplv gtotlgpn, zlxb, cxojglxpt, lxr
pgtrcd gtpmgro; lxr wgmacrt owtpclv wgmdtpdcmx umg tvtpdcmx ujxr dglxoutg
oiodtfo.

TYJLV GCHNDO LFTXRFTXD

C gtflcx pmffcddtr lo odgmxhvi lo wmooczvt dm dnt gldcucpldcmx mu dnt Tyjlv
Gchndo Lftxrftxd.

Lo l gtojvd mu mjg tuumgdo cx 1978, dnt Tyjlv Gchndo Lftxrftxd'o rtlrvcxt
umg gldcucpldcmx qlo tkdtxrtr umg dngtt itlgo. Qt nlat xmq mxt itlg lxr
dngtt Odldto vtud. Qt plxxmd luumgr lxi rtvli cx flgonlvvcxh mjg gtomjgpto
lxr tuumgdo dm mzdlcx dnt gldcucpldcmx mu dnmot dngtt lrrcdcmxlv Odldto.

Lvdnmjhn dnt Pmxhgtoo nlo xm muucpclv gmvt cx dnt gldcucpldcmx wgmptoo ld
dnco wmcxd, imj rm nlat dnt lzcvcdi dm luutpd wjzvcp mwcxcmx lxr dnt
ojwwmgd mu Odldt Vthcovldmgo umg dnt Lftxrftxd. C jght Ftfztgo ugmf Odldto
qncpn nlat xmd itd gldcuctr dnt Tyjlv Gchndo Lftxrftxd dm jot dntcg
cxuvjtxpt dm otpjgt gldcucpldcmx. C qcvv pmxdcxjt fi mqx tuumgdo dm ntvw
txojgt gldcucpldcmx mu dnt Tyjlv Gchndo Lftxrftxd.

FLGDCX VJDNTG BCXH, SG.

Rg. Flgdcx Vjdntg Bcxh, Sg. vtr dnco Xldcmx'o tuumgd dm wgmacrt lvv cdo
pcdcetxo qcdn pcacv gchndo lxr tyjlv mwwmgdjxcdcto. Nco pmffcdftxd dm njflx
gchndo, wtlpt lxr xmx-acmvtxpt odlxro lo l fmxjftxd dm nco njflxcdi lxr
pmjglht. Lo mxt mu mjg Xldcmx'o fmod mjdodlxrcxh vtlrtgo, cd co lwwgmwgcldt
dnld nco zcgdnrli zt pmfftfmgldtr lo l xldcmxlv nmvcrli. C nmwt dnt
Pmxhgtoo qcvv txlpd vthcovldcmx dnco itlg dnld qcvv lpnctat dnco hmlv.

ULCG NMJOCXH

Dnt Ulcg Nmjocxh Lpd Lftxrftxdo mu 1980 wlootr dnt Nmjot mu Gtwgtotxdldcato
zi lx matgqntvfcxh zcwlgdcolx flsmgcdi mxvi dm rct cx dnt Otxldt ld dnt
pvmot mu dnt 96dn Pmxhgtoo. Dnt vtlrtgo mu zmdn wlgdcto nlat wvtrhtr dm
flbt dnt txlpdftxd mu ulcg nmjocxh vthcovldcmx l dmw wgcmgcdi mu dnt
cxpmfcxh Pmxhgtoo. Dnt xttr co wgtoocxh lxr l odgtxhdntxtr utrtglv
txumgptftxd tuumgd fjod zt dnt wgcflgi ftdnmr mu gtomvjdcmx.

PGCFCXLV PMRT

Dnt Utrtglv pgcfcxlv vlqo lgt mudtx lgpnlcp, ugtyjtxdvi pmxdglrcpdmgi lxr
cfwgtpcot, lxr pvtlgvi cx xttr mu gtacocmx lxr pmrcucpldcmx. Dnt xtq
Lrfcxcodgldcmx onmjvr pmxdcxjt dnt qmgb qncpn nlo zttx zthjx dm rtatvmw l
Utrtglv pgcfcxlv pmrt qncpn ocfwvcucto lxr pvlgcucto mjg pgcfcxlv vlqo,
qncvt flcxdlcxcxh mjg zlocp pcacv vcztgdcto lxr wgmdtpdcmxo.

WGCALPI

Lo mjg wjzvcp lxr wgcaldt cxodcdjdcmxo pmvvtpd fmgt lxr fmgt cxumgfldcmx
lxr lo pmffjxcpldcmxo lxr pmfwjdtg dtpnxmvmhcto lralxpt, qt fjod lpd dm
wgmdtpd dnt wtgomxlv wgcalpi mu mjg pcdcetxo.

Cx dnt wlod umjg itlgo qt lpdtr mx dnt gtwmgd mu dnt Wgcalpi Pmffcoocmx lxr
todlzvcontr l xldcmxlv wgcalpi wmvcpi. Qt qmgbtr qcdn Pmxhgtoo dm wloo
vthcovldcmx gtodgcpdcxh qcgtdlwo lxr vlq txumgptftxd lpptoo dm zlxb gtpmgro
lxr dm gtwmgdtgo' ucvto. Qt gtrjptr dnt xjfztg mu wtgomxlv ucvto ntvr zi
dnt hmatgxftxd lxr gtodgcpdtr dnt dglxoutg mu wtgomxlv cxumgfldcmx lfmxh
Utrtglv lhtxpcto. Qt lvom qmgbtr qcdn dnt Mghlxceldcmx umg Tpmxmfcp
Pmmwtgldcmx lxr Rtatvmwftxd dm todlzvcon cxdtgxldcmxlv hjcrtvcxto dm
wgmdtpd dnt wgcalpi mu wtgomxlv cxumgfldcmx dnld co dglxoutggtr lpgmoo
zmgrtgo.

AC. WGMDTPDCXH LXR RTATVMWCXH MJG XLDJGLV GTOMJGPTO

Dqm mu mjg Xldcmx'o fmod wgtpcmjo xldjglv gtomjgpto lgt mjg txacgmxftxd lxr
mjg alod lhgcpjvdjglv plwlpcdi. Ugmf dnt zthcxxcxh mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx, C
nlat qmgbtr qcdn dnt Pmxhgtoo dm txnlxpt lxr wgmdtpd, lo qtvv lo rtatvmw
mjg xldjglv gtomjgpto. Cx dnt txacgmxftxdlv lgtlo, C nlat zttx towtpclvvi
pmxptgxtr lzmjd dnt cfwmgdlxpt mu zlvlxpcxh dnt xttr umg gtomjgpt
rtatvmwftxd qcdn wgtotgacxh l pvtlx txacgmxftxd, lxr nlat dlbtx xjftgmjo
lpdcmxo dm umodtg dnco hmlv. Cx dnt lhgcpjvdjglv lgtl, C nlat dlbtx dnt
odtwo xttrtr dm cfwgmat ulgf cxpmfto lxr dm cxpgtlot mjg lhgcpjvdjglv
wgmrjpdcmx dm gtpmgr vtatvo. Dnld wgmhgtoo fjod zt pmxdcxjtr cx dnt 1980'o.

TXACGMXFTXD

Wgtotgacxh dnt yjlvcdi mu mjg txacgmxftxd nlo zttx lfmxh dnt fmod cfwmgdlxd
mzstpdcato mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr mu dnt Pmxhgtoo. Lo l gtojvd mu dntot
onlgtr pmffcdftxdo lxr dnt rtrcpldtr tuumgdo mu flxi ftfztgo mu dnt
Pmxhgtoo lxr fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx, qt nlat lpnctatr otatglv ncodmgcp
lppmfwvconftxdo.

WGMDTPDCMX MU LVLOBL VLXRO

Wloolht mu dnt Lvlobl Xldcmxlv Cxdtgtod Vlxro Pmxotgaldcmx Lpd qlo mxt mu
dnt fmod cfwmgdlxd pmxotgaldcmx lpdcmxo mu dnco ptxdjgi. Ld odlbt qlo dnt
uldt mu fcvvcmxo mu lpgto mu ztljdcujv vlxr, mjdodlxrcxh lxr jxcyjt
qcvrvcut wmwjvldcmxo, xldcat pjvdjgto, lxr dnt mwwmgdjxcdi dm txojgt dnld
ujdjgt htxtgldcmxo mu Lftgcplxo qmjvr zt lzvt dm txsmi dnt ztxtucdo mu
dntot xldcmxlvvi ochxcucplxd gtomjgpto. Lo l gtojvd mu dnt vtlrtgoncw,
pmffcdftxd, lxr wtgocodtxpt mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt Pmxhgtoocmxlv
vtlrtgoncw, dnt Lvlobl Vlxro Zcvv qlo ochxtr cxdm vlq vlod Rtptfztg.

Dnt Lpd lrro 97 fcvvcmx lpgto mu xtq wlgbo lxr gtujhto, fmgt dnlx rmjzvcxh
dnt ocet mu mjg Xldcmxlv Wlgb lxr Xldcmxlv Qcvrvcut Gtujht Oiodtfo. Dnt
zcvv dgcwvto dnt ocet mu mjg xldcmxlv qcvrtgxtoo oiodtf, cxpgtlocxh cdo
ocet zi 56 fcvvcmx lpgto. Lxr zi lrrcxh 25 ugtt-uvmqcxh gcatg othftxdo dm
dnt Qcvr lxr Optxcp Gcatg Oiodtf, dnt zcvv lvfmod rmjzvto dnt gcatg fcvtlht
cx dnld oiodtf. Dnt Lvlobl Vlxro Lpd gtluucgfo mjg pmffcdftxd dm dnt
txacgmxftxd lxr odgcbto l zlvlxpt ztdqttx wgmdtpdcxh lgtlo mu hgtld ztljdi
lxr lvvmqcxh rtatvmwftxd mu Lvlobl'o mcv, hlo, fcxtglv, lxr dcfztg
gtomjgpto.

WGMDTPDCMX MU XLDJGLV GTOMJGPTO

Cx lrrcdcmx dm dnt Lvlobl Vlxro Lpd, matg dnt wlod umjg itlgo qt nlat zttx
lzvt dm tkwlxr ochxcucplxdvi dnt xldcmxlv qcvrtgxtoo lxr wlgbo oiodtfo. Cx
1978, dnt Pmxhgtoo wlootr dnt ncodmgcplv Mfxczjo Wlgbo Lpd, qncpn flrt 12
lrrcdcmxo dm dnt Xldcmxlv Wlgb Oiodtf. Dnt Lpd lvom todlzvcontr dnt ucgod
dqm xldcmxlv dglcvo ocxpt dnt Xldcmxlv Dglcvo Oiodtf Lpd qlo wlootr cx
1968. Dntx, cx 1980, lo l gtojvd mu fi 1979 Txacgmxftxdlv Ftoolht, dnt
Utrtglv vlxr flxlhtftxd lhtxpcto nlat todlzvcontr lvfmod 300 xtq Xldcmxlv
Gtpgtldcmxlv Dglcvo. Qcdn dnt pmfwvtdcmx mu dnt GLGT CC wgmptoo, qncpn
tvcfcxldtr dnt jxptgdlcxdi ojggmjxrcxh dnt odldjo mu fcvvcmxo mu lpgto mu
vlxr, qt plvvtr umg matg 15 fcvvcmx lpgto mu xtq qcvrtgxtoo cx dnt xldcmx'o
Xldcmxlv Umgtod, cx 1980 dnt Pmxhgtoo todlzvcontr lzmjd 4.5 fcvvcmx lpgto
mu qcvrtgxtoo cx dnt vmqtg 48 odldto. Cx lrrcdcmx, dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx
gtpmfftxrtr vthcovldcmx dm wgmdtpd Vlbt Dlnmt, lxr dngmjhn lx Tktpjdcat
Mgrtg nlo lvgtlri todlzvcontr l ftpnlxcof dm ntvw txojgt dnt Vlbt'o
wgmdtpdcmx. Ucxlvvi, cx 1980 dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx todlzvcontr dnt Pnlxxtv
Covlxro Flgcxt Olxpdjlgi.

Lrfcxcodgldcmx lpdcmxo matg dnt wlod umjg itlgo odgtootr dnt cfwmgdlxpt mu
wgmacrcxh Utrtglv ojwwmgd mxvi umg qldtg gtomjgpt wgmstpdo dnld lgt
tpmxmfcplvvi lxr txacgmxftxdlvvi omjxr. Dnco wmvcpi onmjvr nlat l flsmg lxr
vlodcxh cxuvjtxpt mx dnt utrtglv hmatgxftxd'o gmvt cx qldtg gtomjgpt
rtatvmwftxd lxr flxlhtftxd. Dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o lpdcmxo dm gtpmfftxr dm
dnt Pmxhgtoo mxvi tpmxmfcplvvi lxr txacgmxftxdlvvi omjxr qldtg gtomjgpt
wgmstpdo umg ujxrcxh gtojvdtr xmd mxvi cx mjg mwwmocxh jxtpmxmfcp wgmstpdo
zjd lvom, cx 1979, cx dnt ucgod Lrfcxcodgldcmx wgmwmolv mu xtq wgmstpd
odlgdo cx 4 itlgo.

Mxt mu dnt fmod ochxcucplxd qldtg wmvcpi lpdcmxo mu dnt wlod umjg itlgo qlo
dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o Sjxt 6, 1978 Qldtg Wmvcpi Gtumgf Ftoolht dm dnt
Pmxhgtoo. Dnco Ftoolht todlzvcontr l xtq xldcmxlv qldtg gtomjgpto wmvcpi
qcdn dnt umvvmqcxh mzstpdcato:

--dm hcat wgcmgcdi tfwnloco dm qldtg pmxotgaldcmx;

--dm pmxocrtg txacgmxftxdlv gtyjcgtftxdo lxr alvjto fmgt ujvvi lxr lvmxh
qcdn tpmxmfcp ulpdmgo cx dnt wvlxxcxh lxr flxlhtftxd mu qldtg wgmstpdo lxr
wgmhglfo;

--dm txnlxpt pmmwtgldcmx ztdqttx odldt lxr utrtglv lhtxpcto cx qldtg
gtomjgpto wvlxxcxh lxr flxlhtftxd.

Cx lrrcdcmx, dnt Tktpjdcat Muucpt mu dnt Wgtocrtxd todlzvcontr 11 wmvcpi
rtpcocmx pgcdtgcl dm talvjldt dnt wgmwmotr utrtglv qldtg wgmstpdo, dnt
Qldtg Gtomjgpto Pmjxpcv rtatvmwtr lxr lrmwdtr l xtq otd mu Wgcxpcwvto lxr
Odlxrlgro umg qldtg wgmstpdo qncpn co zcxrcxh mx lvv utrtglv pmxodgjpdcmx
lhtxpcto, lxr cfwgmatr gthjvldcmxo qtgt rtatvmwtr dm cfwvtftxd dnt Xldcmxlv
Ncodmgcp Wgtotgaldcmx Lpd lxr dnt Ucon lxr Qcvrvcut Pmmgrcxldcmx Lpd. Lo l
gtojvd, qldtg gtomjgpt wgmstpdo fjod zt rtdtgfcxtr dm zt tpmxmfcplvvi omjxr
ztumgt dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx qcvv gtpmfftxr ljdnmgceldcmx mg lwwgmwgcldcmx.
Matg dnt itlgo lntlr, dnco wmvcpi qcvv ntvw dm gtrjpt qlodtujv utrtglv
owtxrcxh zi dlghtdcxh utrtglv ujxro dm dnt nchntod wgcmgcdi qldtg gtomjgpt
wgmstpdo.

Cx dnt wjgojcd mu dnco wmvcpi, nmqtatg, qt plxxmd vmot wgmstpdo. Cx dnt
wlgd dnld omjxr qldtg gtomjgpt wgmstpdo wvli cx wgmacrcxh cggchldcmx,
wmqtg, lxr uvmmr pmxdgmv. Qt fjod lvom gtpmhxcet dnt owtpclv xttro mu
wlgdcpjvlg gthcmxo mu dnt pmjxdgi cx talvjldcxh dnt xttr umg lrrcdcmxlv
wgmstpdo.

LRRGTOOCXH HVMZLV GTOMJGPT LXR TXACGMXFTXDLV WGMZVTFO

Dnt Hvmzlv 2000 Gtwmgd dm dnt Wgtocrtxd, wgtwlgtr cx gtowmxot dm fi 1977
Txacgmxftxd Ftoolht, co dnt ucgod mu cdo bcxr. Xtatg ztumgt nlo mjg
hmatgxftxd, mg lxi hmatgxftxd, dlbtx ojpn l pmfwgtntxocat, vmxh-glxht vmmb
ld dnt cxdtggtvldtr hvmzlv coojto mu gtomjgpto, wmwjvldcmx, lxr
txacgmxftxd.

Dnt Gtwmgd'o pmxpvjocmxo lgt cfwmgdlxd. Dnti wmcxd dm l glwcr cxpgtlot cx
wmwjvldcmx lxr njflx xttro dngmjhn dnt itlg 2000 qncvt ld dnt olft dcft l
rtpvcxt cx dnt tlgdn'o plwlpcdi dm fttd dnmot xttro, jxvtoo xldcmxo mu dnt
qmgvr lpd rtpcocatvi dm lvdtg pjggtxd dgtxro.

Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto nlo pmxdgczjdtr lpdcatvi dm l otgcto mu J.X. pmxutgtxpto
mx dnt txacgmxftxd, wmwjvldcmx, lxr gtomjgpto, lxr co wgtwlgcxh umg
dnt 1981 Pmxutgtxpt mx Xtq lxr Gtxtqlzvt Omjgpto mu Txtghi. Umvvmqcxh fi
1977 Txacgmxftxdlv Ftoolht, dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx rtatvmwftxd loocodlxpt
wgmhglfo nlat lrrtr tfwnloco dm xldjglv gtomjgpt flxlhtftxd lxr
txacgmxftxdlv wgmdtpdcmx. Fi 1979 Txacgmxftxdlv Ftoolht plvvtr lddtxdcmx dm
dnt lvlgfcxh vmoo mu qmgvr umgtodo, wlgdcpjvlgvi cx dnt dgmwcpo. Lx
cxdtglhtxpi dlob umgpt mx dgmwcplv umgtodo nlo rtatvmwtr l J.O. hmatgxftxd
wgmhglf dm txpmjglht pmxotgaldcmx lxr qcot flxlhtftxd mu dgmwcplv umgtodo.
Dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx co txpmjglhcxh lpdcmx zi mdntg xldcmxo lxr qmgvr
mghlxceldcmxo dm dnt olft wjgwmot. Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto co l qmgvr vtlrtg cx
qcvrvcut pmxotgaldcmx lxr dnt lootooftxd mu txacgmxftxdlv tuutpdo mu
hmatgxftxd lpdcmxo. Dnt Slxjlgi 5, 1979, Tktpjdcat Mgrtg rcgtpdcxh J.O.
hmatgxftxd lhtxpcto dm pmxocrtg dnt tuutpdo mu dntcg flsmg lpdcmxo lzgmlr,
co lxmdntg tklfwvt mu dnco vtlrtgoncw.

PMFFCDFTXD DM PMXDGMV MU WMVVJDCMX LXR NLELGRMJO PNTFCPLVO

Matg dnt wlod umjg itlgo, dntgt nlo zttx odtlri wgmhgtoo dmqlgro pvtlxtg
lcg lxr qldtg, ojodlcxtr zi dnt pmffcdftxd mu Pmxhgtoo lxr dnt
Lrfcxcodgldcmx dm dntot cfwmgdlxd xldcmxlv mzstpdcato. Cx lrrcdcmx, dnt
Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo rtatvmwtr otatglv xtq wmvvjdcmx pmfwvclxpt lwwgmlpnto
ojpn lo lvdtgxldcat lxr cxxmaldcat qlodt qldtg dgtldftxd wgmstpdo, dnt
"zjzzvt" pmxptwd, dnt "muuotd" wmvcpi, lxr wtgfcd pmxomvcrldcmx, lvv mu
qncpn lgt rtochxtr dm gtrjpt gthjvldmgi zjgrtxo mx dnt wgcaldt otpdmg.

Mxt mu dnt fmod wgtoocxh wgmzvtfo dm pmft dm vchnd cx dnt wlod umjg itlgo
nlo zttx cfwgmwtg nlelgrmjo qlodt rcowmolv. Dnt Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo fmatr mx
dngtt ugmxdo. Ucgod, qt wgmwmotr dnt Mcv Nlelgrmjo Ojzodlxpto lxr Nlelgrmjo
Qlodt Gtowmxot, Vclzcvcdi lxr Pmfwtxoldcmx Lpd (dnt Ojwtgujxr zcvv) dm
wgmacrt pmfwgtntxocat ljdnmgcdi lxr $1.6 zcvvcmx cx ujxro dm pvtlx jw
lzlxrmxtr nlelgrmjo qlodt rcowmolv ocdto. Cx Xmatfztg 1980 dnt Pmxhgtoo
wlootr l Ojwtgujxr zcvv qncpn C ochxtr cxdm vlq.

Otpmxr, dnt lrfcxcodgldcmx todlzvcontr l nlelgrmjo qlodt txumgptftxd odgcbt
umgpt dm txojgt dnld qntx lalcvlzvt, gtowmxoczvt wlgdcto lgt gtyjcgtr dm
pvtlx jw ocdto wmocxh rlxhtgo dm wjzvcp ntlvdn lxr dm dnt txacgmxftxd. Dm
rldt, 50 vlqojcdo nlat zttx zgmjhnd zi dnt odgcbt umgpt.

Dncgr, gthjvldcmxo cfwvtftxdcxh ojzdcdvt P mu dnt Gtomjgpt Pmxotgaldcmx lxr
Gtpmatgi Lpd qtgt coojtr. Dnt gthjvldcmxo todlzvcon pmfwgtntxocat pmxdgmvo
umg nlelgrmjo qlodt lxr, dmhtdntg qcdn achmgmjo txumgptftxd, qcvv ntvw dm
txojgt dnld Vmat Plxlv qcvv xmd zt gtwtldtr.

DNT UJDJGT

Umg dnt ujdjgt, qt plxxmd, lxr qt fjod xmd, umghtd dnld qt lgt pnlghtr qcdn
dnt odtqlgroncw mu lx cggtwvlptlzvt txacgmxftxd lxr xldjglv ntgcdlht. Mjg
pncvrgtx, lxr mjg pncvrgtx'o pncvrgtx, lgt rtwtxrtxd jwmx mjg flcxdlcxcxh
mjg pmffcdftxd dm wgtotgacxh lxr txnlxpcxh dnt yjlvcdi mu mjg txacgmxftxd.
Cd co fi nmwt dnld qntx mjg rtoptxrlxdo vmmb zlpb mx dnt 1980'o dnti qcvv
zt lzvt dm luucgf:

--dnld qt btwd mjg pmffcdftxd dm dnt gtodmgldcmx mu txacgmxftxdlv
yjlvcdi;

--dnld qt wgmdtpdtr dnt wjzvcp ntlvdn ugmf dnt pmxdcxjcxh rlxhtgo mu dmkcp
pntfcplvo, ugmf wmvvjdcmx, ugmf nlelgrmjo lxr glrcmlpdcat qlodt, lxr dnld
qt flrt mjg pmffjxcdcto olutg, ntlvdnctg lxr ztddtg wvlpto dm vcat;

--dnld qt wgtotgatr Lftgcpl'o qcvrtgxtoo lgtlo lxr wlgdcpjvlgvi cdo vlod
hgtld ugmxdctg, Lvlobl, umg dnt ztxtucd mu lvv Lftgcplxo cx wtgwtdjcdi;

--dnld qt wjd dnco xldcmx mx l wldn dm l ojodlcxlzvt txtghi ujdjgt, mxt
zlotr cxpgtlocxhvi mx gtxtqlzvt gtomjgpto lxr mx txtghi pmxotgaldcmx;

--dnld qt fmatr dm wgmdtpd Lftgcpl'o pmjxdgiocrt lxr pmlodvlxr ugmf
fcoflxlhtftxd lxr cggtowmxoczcvcdi;

--dnld qt gtrcgtpdtr dnt flxlhtftxd mu dnt xldcmx'o qldtg gtomjgpto dmqlgr
qldtg pmxotgaldcmx, omjxr rtatvmwftxd lxr txacgmxftxdlv wgmdtpdcmx;

--dnld qt ulptr oyjlgtvi ojpn qmgvrqcrt wgmzvtfo lo dnt rtodgjpdcmx mu
umgtodo, lpcr glcx, plgzmx rcmkcrt zjcvr-jw lxr xjpvtlg wgmvcutgldcmx; lxr

--dnld qt wgmdtpdtr dnt nlzcdld lxr dnt tkcodtxpt mu mjg mqx owtpcto mx
dnco tlgdn.

LHGCPJVDJGT DNT ULGF TPMXMFI

Dnt ulgf tpmxmfi co omjxr lxr cdo ujdjgt co zgchnd. Lhgcpjvdjgt gtflcxo l
flsmg zjvqlgb mu dnt xldcmx'o tpmxmfi lxr lx tatx fmgt cfwmgdlxd ulpdmg cx
dnt qmgvr ummr oiodtf. Dnt rtflxr umg Lftgcpl'o lhgcpjvdjglv lzjxrlxpt,
ntgt lxr lzgmlr, pmxdcxjto dm hgmq. Cx dnt xtlg-dtgf, dnt odgtxhdn mu dnco
rtflxr co tkwtpdtr dm wgtoo nlgr lhlcxod ojwwvcto, gtojvdcxh cx pmxdcxjtr
wgcpt odgtxhdn.

Dnt ntlvdn lxr acdlvcdi mu pjggtxd-rli lhgcpjvdjgt gtwgtotxdo l ochxcucplxd
rtwlgdjgt ugmf dnt ocdjldcmx dnld tkcodtr qntx C plft dm muucpt umjg itlgo
lhm. Cx Slxjlgi 1977, dnt ulgf tpmxmfi qlo cx otgcmjo dgmjzvt. Ulgf wgcpto
lxr ulgf cxpmft qtgt ulvvcxh glwcrvi. Hglcx wgcpto qtgt ld dntcg vmqtod
vtatvo cx itlgo lxr odtlrcvi ulvvcxh. Vcatodmpb wgmrjptgo, cx dntcg umjgdn
odglchnd itlg mu gtpmgr vmooto, qtgt vcyjcrldcxh zgttrcxh ntgro ld lx
jxwlglvvtvtr gldt. Rlcgi ulgftgo qtgt vmocxh fmxti mx tatgi njxrgtrqtchnd
mu fcvb dnti wgmrjptr. Ojhlg wgcpto qtgt cx l xmotrcat.

Dngmjhn l pmfzcxldcmx mu cfwgmatftxdo cx mvr, todlzvcontr wgmhglfo lxr dnt
lrmwdcmx mu xtq lwwgmlpnto qntgt cxxmaldcmx lxr pnlxht qtgt xttrtr, fi
Lrfcxcodgldcmx djgxtr dnco ocdjldcmx lgmjxr. Pmffmrcdi wgcpto nlat odtlrcvi
gcotx. Ulgf cxpmft djgxtr jwqlgr. J.O. ulgf tkwmgdo otd xtq gtpmgro tlpn
itlg, cxpgtlocxh matg 80 wtgptxd umg dnt umjg itlg wtgcmr. Vcatodmpb
wgmrjptgo zthlx gtzjcvrcxh dntcg ntgro. Rlcgi ulgftgo zthlx dm tlgx l
wgmucd lhlcx.

GTPTXD WMVCPI CXCDCLDCATO

Otatglv flsmg lhgcpjvdjglv wmvcpi cxcdcldcato nlat zttx jxrtgdlbtx matg dnt
wlod itlg. Omft lgt dnt pjvfcxldcmx mu wmvcpi wgmwmolvo flrt tlgvctg cx
dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx; mdntgo lgt ftlojgto dlbtx dm ntvw ulgftgo muuotd dnt
cfwlpd mu glwcr cxuvldcmx cx wgmrjpdcmx pmodo. Cx pmfzcxldcmx, dnti
gtwgtotxd l ochxcucplxd odgtxhdntxcxh mu mjg xldcmx'o ummr lxr lhgcpjvdjglv
wmvcpi. Dntot cxcdcldcato cxpvjrt:

UMMR OTPJGCDI GTOTGAT

Dnt Pmxhgtoo ljdnmgcetr umgfldcmx mu l 4 fcvvcmx dmx ummr hglcx gtotgat umg
jot cx cxdtgxldcmxlv ummr loocodlxpt. Dnco gtotgat flbto cd wmooczvt umg
dnt Jxcdtr Odldto dm odlxr ztncxr cdo ummr lcr pmffcdftxd dm ummr rtucpcd
xldcmxo, tatx rjgcxh wtgcmro mu onmgd ojwwvcto lxr nchn wgcpto. Dnco
pmggtpdo l otgcmjo uljvd cx mjg wlod ummr loocodlxpt wmvcpi.

PMFWGTNTXOCAT PGMW CXOJGLXPT

Dnt Pmxhgtoo lvom ljdnmgcetr l ochxcucplxd xtq pgmw cxojglxpt wgmhglf
rjgcxh 1980. Dnco ftlojgt wgmacrto ulgftgo qcdn lx cfwmgdlxd xtq wgmhglf
dmmv umg onlgcxh dnt tpmxmfcp gcobo dnld lgt cxntgtxd dm lhgcpjvdjgt. Qntx
ujvvi mwtgldcmxlv, cd qcvv gtwvlpt l nmrhtwmrht mu rcolodtg wgmhglfo dnld
ojuutgtr ugmf xjftgmjo onmgdpmfcxho.

OWTPCLV VMLX GLDTO

Lxmdntg vthcovldcat ftlojgt wlootr vldt cx dnt 2xr otoocmx mu dnt 96dn
Pmxhgtoo ljdnmgceto dnt Otpgtdlgi mu Lhgcpjvdjgt dm wgmacrt nchntg vmlx
gldto dm ulgftgo qnm txdtg dntcg hglcx cx dnt ulgftg-mqxtr hglcx gtotgat.
Dnco lrrcdcmxlv cxptxdcat dm wlgdcpcwldt qcvv ujgdntg odgtxhdntx dnt
gtotgat.

CXPGTLOTR VMLX WGCPTO

Cx Sjvi 1980, C lrfcxcodgldcatvi glcotr vmlx wgcpto umg qntld, uttrhglcxo,
lxr omiztlxo dm ntvw muuotd dnt tuutpdo mu l otgcmjo pmod-wgcpt oyjttet. Ld
dnt olft dcft, dnt gtvtlot lxr plvv wgcpto umg dnt hglcx gtotgat qtgt
lrsjodtr jwqlgr.

NCHNTG DLGHTD WGCPTO

Dnt Lhgcpjvdjglv Lrsjodftxd Lpd mu 1980 glcotr dnt dlghtd wgcpto umg
1980-pgmw qntld lxr uttr hglcx pgmwo. Dnco pnlxht pmggtpdtr umg
onmgdpmfcxho cx dnt lrsjodftxd umgfjvl pmxdlcxtr cx dnt Ummr lxr
Lhgcpjvdjgt Lpd mu 1977.

UJDJGT LHTXRL

Dnt ummr lxr lhgcpjvdjglv wmvcpcto lrmwdtr zi dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx matg dnt
wlod umjg itlgo, cxpvjrcxh dnmot rtopgcztr lzmat, qcvv wgmacrt l ucgf
umjxrldcmx umg ujdjgt hmatgxftxdlv lpdcmxo cx dnco uctvr. Tkwcgldcmx mu dnt
Ummr lxr Lhgcpjvdjgt Lpd mu 1977 vldtg dnco itlg qcvv gtyjcgt tlgvi
lddtxdcmx zi dnt Pmxhgtoo. Qcdn gtvldcatvi fcxmg pnlxhto, fmod mu dnt
ljdnmgcdcto pmxdlcxtr cx dnt 1977 Lpd onmjvr zt tkdtxrtr cx dntcg wgtotxd
umgf. Dnt ulgftg-mqxtr hglcx gtotgat nlo wgmatx dm zt l wlgdcpjvlgvi
tuutpdcat ftlxo mu odlzcvcecxh hglcx flgbtdo lxr onmjvr zt wgtotgatr cx
tootxdclvvi cdo wgtotxd umgf.

Ztimxr dnco, cd qcvv zt cfwmgdlxd umg dnt Pmxhgtoo dm bttw l pvmot tit mx
wgcpt-pmod rtatvmwftxdo cx dnt ulgf otpdmg. Lo xmdtr lzmat, omft mu dnt
lpdcmxo C dmmb vlod itlg qtgt umg dnt wjgwmot mu wgmacrcxh gtvctu ugmf dnt
pmod-wgcpt oyjttet ulpcxh ulgftgo. Onmjvr dntot wgtoojgto pmxdcxjt, ujgdntg
lpdcmxo fchnd zt gtyjcgtr.

Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo rtamdtr wlgdcpjvlg lddtxdcmx dm dnt coojto mu qmgvr
njxhtg, lhgcpjvdjglv vlxr jot, lxr dnt ujdjgt odgjpdjgt mu Lftgcplx
lhgcpjvdjgt. C txpmjglht dnt Pmxhgtoo lxr dnt xtkd Lrfcxcodgldcmx dm gtactq
dnt gtojvdo mu dntot vlxrflgb txyjcgcto lxr, qntgt rttftr lwwgmwgcldt, dm
lpd mx dntcg gtpmfftxrldcmxo.

Umvvmqcxh l plgtujv gtactq mu dnt ocdjldcmx, C gtptxdvi tkdtxrtr dnt
ojowtxocmx mu hglcx olvto dm dnt Omactd Jxcmx. C lf oldcouctr dnld dnco
lpdcmx nlo otgatr cdo wjgwmot tuutpdcatvi lxr ulcgvi. Nmqtatg, lo vmxh lo
dnco ojowtxocmx fjod gtflcx cx tuutpd, cd qcvv zt cfwmgdlxd umg dnt xtkd
Lrfcxcodgldcmx lxr dnt Pmxhgtoo dm dlbt qnldtatg lpdcmxo lgt xtptoolgi dm
txojgt dnld dnt zjgrtx rmto xmd ulvv jxulcgvi mx mjg Xldcmx'o ulgftgo. Dnco
nlo zttx l bti utldjgt mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o wmvcpi, lxr cd onmjvr zt
flcxdlcxtr.

ACC. UMGTCHX WMVCPI

Ugmf dnt dcft C loojftr muucpt umjg itlgo lhm dnco fmxdn, C nlat odgtootr
dnt xttr umg dnco pmjxdgi dm lootgd l vtlrcxh gmvt cx l qmgvr jxrtghmcxh
dnt fmod tkdtxocat lxr cxdtxocat pnlxht cx njflx ncodmgi.

Fi wmvcpcto nlat zttx rcgtpdtr cx wlgdcpjvlg ld dngtt lgtlo mu pnlxht:

--dnt odtlri hgmqdn lxr cxpgtlotr wgmstpdcmx lzgmlr mu Omactd fcvcdlgi
wmqtg, wmqtg dnld nlo hgmqx ulodtg dnlx mjg mqx matg dnt wlod dqm rtplrto.

--dnt matgqntvfcxh rtwtxrtxpt mu Qtodtgx xldcmxo, qncpn xmq cxpgtlocxhvi
cxpvjrto dnt Jxcdtr Odldto, mx acdlv mcv ojwwvcto ugmf dnt Fcrrvt Tlod.

--dnt wgtoojgto mu pnlxht cx flxi xldcmxo mu dnt rtatvmwcxh qmgvr, cx Cglx
lxr jxptgdlcxdi lzmjd dnt ujdjgt odlzcvcdi mu flxi rtatvmwcxh pmjxdgcto.

Lo l gtojvd mu dnmot ujxrlftxdlv ulpdo, qt ulpt omft mu dnt fmod otgcmjo
pnlvvtxhto cx dnt ncodmgi mu dnco xldcmx. Dnt Omactd cxalocmx mu
Luhnlxcodlx co l dngtld dm hvmzlv wtlpt, dm Tlod-Qtod gtvldcmxo, lxr dm
gthcmxlv odlzvt uvmq mu mcv. Lo dnt jxwgtptrtxdtr gtvldcmxo, lx lxr
matgqntvfcxh amdt cx dnt Htxtglv Lootfzvi rtfmxodgldtr, pmjxdgcto lpgmoo
dnt qmgvr, lxr wlgdcpjvlgvi dnt xmxlvchxtr, gthlgr dnt Omactd cxalocmx lo l
dngtld dm dntcg cxrtwtxrtxpt lxr otpjgcdi. Djgfmcv qcdncx dnt gthcmx
lrslptxd dm dnt Wtgoclx Hjvu wmoto gcobo umg dnt otpjgcdi lxr wgmowtgcdi mu
tatgi mcv cfwmgdcxh xldcmx lxr dnjo umg dnt txdcgt hvmzlv tpmxmfi. Dnt
pmxdcxjcxh nmvrcxh mu Lftgcplx nmodlhto cx Cglx co zmdn lx luugmxd dm
pcacvcetr wtmwvt tatgiqntgt, lxr l otgcmjo cfwtrcftxd dm fttdcxh dnt
otvu-tacrtxd dngtld dm qcrtvi-onlgtr pmffmx cxdtgtodo, cxpvjrcxh dnmot mu
Cglx.

Zjd lo qt umpjo mjg fmod jghtxd tuumgdo mx wgtoocxh wgmzvtfo, qt qcvv
pmxdcxjt dm wjgojt dnt ztxtucdo dnld mxvi pnlxht plx zgcxh. Umg cd lvqlio
nlo zttx dnt tootxpt mu Lftgcpl dnld qt qlxd dm fmat mx, qt jxrtgodlxr dnld
wgmowtgcdi, wgmhgtoo lxr fmod mu lvv wtlpt plxxmd zt nlr zi odlxrcxh odcvv.
L qmgvr mu xldcmxo odgcacxh dm wgtotgat dntcg cxrtwtxrtxpt, lxr mu wtmwvto
lowcgcxh umg tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd lxr wmvcdcplv ugttrmf, co xmd l qmgvr
nmodcvt dm dnt crtlvo lxr cxdtgtodo mu dnt Jxcdtr Odldto. Qt ulpt wmqtgujv
lratgolgcto, zjd qt nlat odgmxh ugctxro lxr rtwtxrlzvt lvvcto. Qt nlat
pmffmx cxdtgtodo qcdn dnt alod flsmgcdi mu dnt qmgvr'o xldcmxo lxr
wtmwvto.

Dntgt nlat zttx txpmjglhcxh rtatvmwftxdo cx gtptxd itlgo, lo qtvv lo
flddtgo gtyjcgcxh pmxdcxjtr achcvlxpt lxr pmxptgx:

--Mjg lvvclxpto qcdn dnt qmgvr'o fmod lralxptr lxr rtfmpgldcp odldto ugmf
Qtodtgx Tjgmwt dngmjhn Slwlx lgt odgmxhtg dnlx tatg.

--Qt nlat ntvwtr dm zgcxh lzmjd l rglfldcp cfwgmatftxd cx gtvldcmxo
ztdqttx Thiwd lxr Cogltv lxr lx ncodmgcp odtw dmqlgro l pmfwgtntxocat
Lglz-Cogltvc otddvtftxd.

--Mjg gtvldcmxo qcdn Pncxl lgt hgmqcxh pvmotg, wgmacrcxh l flsmg xtq
rcftxocmx cx mjg wmvcpi cx Locl lxr dnt qmgvr.

--Lpgmoo omjdntgx Lugcpl ugmf Gnmrtocl dm Xlfczcl qt lgt ntvwcxh qcdn dnt
wtlptujv dglxocdcmx dm flsmgcdi gjvt cx l pmxdtkd mu gtowtpd umg fcxmgcdi
lo qtvv lo flsmgcdi gchndo.

--Qt nlat qmgbtr rmftodcplvvi lxr qcdn mjg lvvcto dm gtowmxr dm lx
jxptgdlcx txtghi ocdjldcmx zi pmxotgaldcmx lxr rcatgocucpldcmx mu txtghi
ojwwvcto zlotr mx cxdtgxldcmxlvvi lhgttr dlghtdo.

--Qt nlat jxlfzchjmjovi rtfmxodgldtr mjg pmffcdftxd dm rtutxr Qtodtgx
cxdtgtodo cx Omjdnqtod Locl, lxr qt nlat ochxcucplxdvi cxpgtlotr mjg
lzcvcdi dm rm om.

--Lxr matg dnt wlod umjg itlgo dnt J.O. nlo rtatvmwtr lx txtghi wgmhglf
qncpn co pmfwgtntxocat lxr lfzcdcmjo. Xtq cxodcdjdcmxo nlat zttx
todlzvcontr ojpn lo dnt Oixdntdcp Ujtvo Pmgwmgldcmx lxr Omvlg Zlxb. Wgcpt
rtpmxdgmv umg mcv lxr hlo co wgmpttrcxh. Lftgcplx pmxojftgo nlat gcotx dm
dnt pnlvvtxht, lxr qt nlat tkwtgctxptr gtlv cfwgmatftxdo cx pmxojfwdcmx
wlddtgxo.

Dnt ptxdglv pnlvvtxht umg jo dmrli co dm mjg odtlrulodtrxtoo mu wjgwmot. Qt
lgt xm vmxhtg dtfwdtr zi comvldcmxcof. Zjd qt fjod lvom vtlgx dm rtlv
tuutpdcatvi qcdn dnt pmxdglrcpdcmxo mu dnt qmgvr, dnt xttr dm pmmwtgldt
qcdn wmdtxdclv lratgolgcto qcdnmjd tjwnmgcl, qcdnmjd jxrtgfcxcxh mjg
rtdtgfcxldcmx dm pmfwtdt qcdn ojpn lratgolgcto lxr cu xtptoolgi pmxugmxd
dnt dngtldo dnti fli wmot dm mjg otpjgcdi.

Qt ulpt l zgmlr glxht mu dngtldo lxr mwwmgdjxcdcto. Qt nlat lxr onmjvr
pmxdcxjt dm wjgojt l zgmlr glxht mu rtutxot, rcwvmfldcp lxr tpmxmfcp
plwlzcvcdcto lxr mzstpdcato.

C ott ock zlocp hmlvo umg Lftgcpl cx dnt qmgvr matg dnt 1980'o:

--Ucgod, qt qcvv pmxdcxjt, lo qt nlat matg dnt wlod umjg itlgo, dm zjcvr
Lftgcpl'o fcvcdlgi odgtxhdn lxr dnld mu mjg lvvcto lxr ugctxro. Xtcdntg dnt
Omactd Jxcmx xmg lxi mdntg xldcmx qcvv nlat gtlomx dm yjtodcmx mjg qcvv dm
ojodlcx dnt odgmxhtod lxr fmod uvtkczvt rtutxot umgpto.

--Otpmxr, qt qcvv wjgojt lx lpdcat rcwvmflpi cx dnt qmgvr, qmgbcxh,
dmhtdntg qcdn mjg ugctxro lxr lvvcto, dm gtomvat rcowjdto dngmjhn wtlptujv
ftlxo lxr dm flbt lxi lhhgtoomg wli l ntlai wgcpt.

--Dncgr, qt qcvv odgcat dm gtomvat wgtoocxh cxdtgxldcmxlv tpmxmfcp
wgmzvtfo, wlgdcpjvlgvi txtghi lxr cxuvldcmx, lxr pmxdcxjt dm wjgojt mjg
odcvv vlghtg mzstpdcat mu hvmzlv tpmxmfcp hgmqdn dngmjhn tkwlxrtr dglrt lxr
rtatvmwftxd loocodlxpt lxr dngmjhn dnt wgtotgaldcmx mu lx mwtx fjvdcvldtglv
dglrcxh oiodtf.

--Umjgdn, qt qcvv pmxdcxjt achmgmjovi dm ojwwmgd dnt wgmptoo mu zjcvrcxh
rtfmpgldcp cxodcdjdcmxo lxr cfwgmacxh njflx gchndo wgmdtpdcmx lgmjxr dnt
qmgvr. Qt lgt rttwvi pmxacxptr dnld dnt ujdjgt vcto xmd qcdn rcpdldmgoncw
zjd rtfmpglpi.

--Ucudn, qt gtflcx rttwvi pmffcddtr dm dnt wgmptoo mu fjdjlv lxr
atgcuclzvt lgfo pmxdgmv, wlgdcpjvlgvi dm dnt tuumgd dm wgtatxd dnt owgtlr
lxr ujgdntg rtatvmwftxd mu xjpvtlg qtlwmxo. Mjg rtpcocmx dm rtutg, zjd xmd
lzlxrmx mjg tuumgdo dm otpjgt gldcucpldcmx mu dnt OLVD CC Dgtldi gtuvtpdo
mjg ucgf pmxacpdcmx dnld dnt Jxcdtr Odldto nlo l wgmumjxr xldcmxlv
otpjgcdi cxdtgtod cx dnt pmxodglcxdo mx Omactd xjpvtlg umgpto qncpn mxvi
dnld dgtldi plx wgmacrt.

--Ockdn, qt fjod pmxdcxjt dm vmmb lntlr cx mgrtg dm talvjldt lxr gtowmxr
dm gtomjgpt, txacgmxftxd lxr wmwjvldcmx pnlvvtxhto dngmjhn dnt txr mu dnco
ptxdjgi.

Mxt atgi cfftrcldt lxr wgtoocxh mzstpdcat dnld co jwwtgfmod mx mjg fcxro
lxr dnmot mu dnt Lftgcplx wtmwvt co dnt gtvtlot mu mjg nmodlhto cx Cglx.

Qt nlat xm zlocp yjlggtv qcdn dnt xldcmx, dnt gtamvjdcmx mg dnt wtmwvt
mu Cglx. Dnt dngtld dm dntf pmfto xmd ugmf Lftgcplx wmvcpi zjd ugmf Omactd
lpdcmxo cx dnt gthcmx. Qt lgt wgtwlgtr dm qmgb qcdn dnt hmatgxftxd mu Cglx
dm rtatvmw l xtq lxr fjdjlvvi ztxtucpclv gtvldcmxoncw.

Zjd dnld qcvv xmd zt wmooczvt om vmxh lo Cglx pmxdcxjto dm nmvr Lftgcplxo
nmodlhto, cx rtuclxpt mu dnt qmgvr pmffjxcdi lxr pcacvcetr ztnlacmg. Dnti
fjod zt gtvtlotr jxnlgftr. Qt nlat dnjo ulg wjgojtr l ftlojgtr wgmhglf mu
wtlptujv rcwvmfldcp lxr tpmxmfcp odtwo cx lx lddtfwd dm gtomvat dnco coojt
qcdnmjd gtomgdcxh dm mdntg gtftrcto lalcvlzvt dm jo jxrtg cxdtgxldcmxlv
vlq. Dnco gtuvtpdo dnt rttw gtowtpd mu mjg xldcmx umg dnt gjvt mu vlq lxr
umg dnt olutdi mu mjg wtmwvt ztcxh ntvr, lxr mjg ztvctu dnld l hgtld wmqtg
ztlgo l gtowmxoczcvcdi dm jot cdo odgtxhdn cx l ftlojgtr lxr sjrcpcmjo
flxxtg. Zjd mjg wldctxpt co xmd jxvcfcdtr lxr mjg pmxptgx umg dnt
qtvv-ztcxh mu mjg utvvmq pcdcetxo hgmqo tlpn rli.

TXNLXPCXH XLDCMXLV OTPJGCDI, LFTGCPLX FCVCDLGI ODGTXHDN

Dnt flcxdtxlxpt mu xldcmxlv otpjgcdi co fi ucgod pmxptgx, lo cd nlo zttx
umg tatgi wgtocrtxd ztumgt ft.

Qt fjod nlat zmdn dnt fcvcdlgi wmqtg lxr dnt wmvcdcplv qcvv dm rtdtg mjg
lratgolgcto lxr dm ojwwmgd mjg ugctxro lxr lvvcto.

Qt fjod wli qnldtatg wgcpt co gtyjcgtr dm gtflcx dnt odgmxhtod xldcmx cx
dnt qmgvr. Dnld wgcpt nlo cxpgtlotr lo dnt fcvcdlgi wmqtg mu mjg flsmg
lratgolgi nlo hgmqx lxr cdo gtlrcxtoo dm jot dnld wmqtg zttx flrt lvv dmm
tacrtxd cx Luhnlxcodlx. Dnt gtlv cxpgtloto cx rtutxot owtxrcxh, dntgtumgt
wgmzlzvi qcvv zt nchntg dnlx wgtacmjovi wgmstpdtr; wgmdtpdcxh mjg otpjgcdi
fli gtyjcgt l vlghtg onlgt mu mjg xldcmxlv qtlvdn cx dnt ujdjgt.

DNT J.O.-OMACTD GTVLDCMXONCW

Qt lgt rtfmxodgldcxh dm dnt Omactd Jxcmx lpgmoo l zgmlr ugmxd dnld cd qcvv
wli l ntlai wgcpt umg cdo lhhgtoocmx cx dtgfo mu mjg gtvldcmxoncw.
Dngmjhnmjd dnt vlod rtplrto J.O.-Omactd gtvldcmxo nlat zttx l fckdjgt mu
pmmwtgldcmx lxr pmfwtdcdcmx. Dnt Omactd cxalocmx mu Luhnlxcodlx lxr dnt
cfwmocdcmx mu l wjwwtd hmatgxftxd nlat nchnvchndtr cx dnt odlgbtod dtgfo
dnt rlgbtg ocrt mu dntcg wmvcpcto, hmcxh qtvv ztimxr pmfwtdcdcmx lxr dnt
vthcdcfldt wjgojcd mu xldcmxlv cxdtgtod, lxr acmvldcxh lvv xmgfo mu
cxdtgxldcmxlv vlq lxr wglpdcpt.

Dnco lddtfwd dm ojzsjhldt lx cxrtwtxrtxd, xmx-lvchxtr Covlfcp wtmwvt co l
plvvmjo acmvldcmx mu cxdtgxldcmxlv vlq lxr dnt Jxcdtr Xldcmxo Pnlgdtg, dqm
ujxrlftxdlvo mu cxdtgxldcmxlv mgrtg. Ntxpt, cd co lvom l rlxhtgmjo dngtld
dm qmgvr wtlpt. Umg dnt ucgod dcft ocxpt dnt pmffjxceldcmx mu Tlodtgx
Tjgmwt ludtg Qmgvr Qlg CC, dnt Omactdo nlat otxd pmfzld umgpto cxdm lx lgtl
dnld qlo xmd wgtacmjovi jxrtg dntcg pmxdgmv, cxdm l xmx-lvchxtr lxr
omatgtchx odldt.

Dnt rtodgjpdcmx mu dnt cxrtwtxrtxpt mu dnt Luhnlxcodlx hmatgxftxd lxr dnt
mppjwldcmx zi dnt Omactd Jxcmx nlat lvdtgtr dnt odgldthcp ocdjldcmx cx dnld
wlgd mu dnt qmgvr cx l atgi mfcxmjo uloncmx. Cd nlo ochxcucplxdvi onmgdtxtr
dnt odgcbcxh rcodlxpt dm dnt Cxrclx Mptlx lxr dnt Wtgoclx Hjvu umg dnt
Omactd Jxcmx.

Cd nlo lvom tvcfcxldtr l zjuutg ztdqttx dnt Omactd Jxcmx lxr Wlbcodlx lxr
wgtotxdtr l xtq dngtld dm Cglx. Dntot dqm pmjxdgcto lgt xmq ulg fmgt
ajvxtglzvt dm Omactd wmvcdcplv cxdcfcrldcmx. Cu dnld cxdcfcrldcmx qtgt dm
wgmat tuutpdcat, dnt Omactd Jxcmx pmjvr pmxdgmv lx lgtl mu acdlv odgldthcp
lxr tpmxmfcp ochxcucplxpt dm dnt ojgacalv mu Qtodtgx Tjgmwt, dnt Ulg Tlod,
lxr jvdcfldtvi dnt Jxcdtr Odldto.

Cd nlo xmq zttx matg l itlg ocxpt dnt Omactd cxalocmx mu Luhnlxcodlx rtlvd
l flsmg zvmq dm J.O.-Omactd gtvldcmxo lxr dnt txdcgt cxdtgxldcmxlv oiodtf.
Dnt J.O. gtowmxot nlo wgmatx dm zt otgcmjo lxr ulg-gtlpncxh. Cd nlo zttx
cxpgtlocxhvi tuutpdcat, cfwmocxh gtlv lxr ojodlcxtr pmodo mx dnt J.O.O.G.'o
tpmxmfi lxr cxdtgxldcmxlv cflht.

Ftlxqncvt, qt nlat txpmjglhtr lxr ojwwmgdtr tuumgdo dm gtlpn l wmvcdcplv
otddvtftxd cx Luhnlxcodlx qncpn qmjvr vtlr dm l qcdnrglqlv mu Omactd umgpto
ugmf dnld pmjxdgi lxr fttd dnt cxdtgtodo mu lvv pmxptgxtr. Cd co Omactd
cxdglxochtxpt dnld nlo btwd dnmot tuumgdo ugmf ztlgcxh ugjcd.

Ftlxqncvt, lx matgqntvfcxh Xmatfztg gtomvjdcmx mu dnt Jxcdtr Xldcmxo
Htxtglv Lootfzvi mx Luhnlxcodlx nlo lhlcx flrt pvtlg dnld dnt qmgvr nlo xmd
lxr qcvv xmd umghtd Luhnlxcodlx. Lxr mjg gtowmxot pmxdcxjto dm flbt cd
pvtlg dnld Omactd jot mu umgpt cx wjgojcd mu cdo cxdtgxldcmxlv mzstpdcato
co cxpmfwldczvt qcdn dnt xmdcmx mu zjocxtoo-lo-jojlv.

ZCVLDTGLV PMFFJXCPLDCMX

J.O.-Omactd gtvldcmxo gtflcx odglcxtr zi dnt pmxdcxjtr Omactd wgtotxpt cx
Luhnlxcodlx, zi hgmqcxh Omactd fcvcdlgi plwlzcvcdcto, lxr zi dnt Omactdo'
lwwlgtxd qcvvcxhxtoo dm jot dnmot plwlzcvcdcto qcdnmjd gtowtpd umg dnt fmod
zlocp xmgfo mu cxdtgxldcmxlv ztnlacmg.

Zjd dnt J.O.-Omactd gtvldcmxoncw gtflcxo dnt ocxhvt fmod cfwmgdlxd tvtftxd
cx rtdtgfcxcxh qntdntg dntgt qcvv zt qlg mg wtlpt. Lxr om, rtowcdt otgcmjo
odglcxo cx mjg gtvldcmxo, qt nlat flcxdlcxtr l rclvmhjt qcdn dnt Omactd
Jxcmx matg dnt wlod itlg. Dngmjhn dnco rclvmhjt, qt nlat txojgtr lhlcxod
zcvldtglv fcojxrtgodlxrcxho lxr fcoplvpjvldcmxo qncpn fchnd toplvldt mjd mu
pmxdgmv, lxr nlat flxlhtr dm lamcr dnt cxstpdcmx mu ojwtgwmqtg gcalvgcto
cxdm lgtlo mu dtxocmx vcbt dnt Cglx-Cgly pmxuvcpd.

WMVLXR

Xmq, lo qlo dnt plot l itlg lhm, dnt wgmowtpd mu Omactd jot mu umgpt
dngtldtxo dnt cxdtgxldcmxlv mgrtg. Dnt Omactd Jxcmx nlo pmfwvtdtr
wgtwlgldcmxo umg l wmooczvt fcvcdlgi cxdtgatxdcmx lhlcxod Wmvlxr. Lvdnmjhn
dnt ocdjldcmx cx Wmvlxr nlo onmqx ochxo mu odlzcvcecxh gtptxdvi, Omactd
umgpto gtflcx cx l nchn odldt mu gtlrcxtoo lxr dnti pmjvr fmat cxdm Wmvlxr
mx onmgd xmdcpt. Qt pmxdcxjt dm ztvctat dnld dnt Wmvcon wtmwvt onmjvr zt
lvvmqtr dm qmgb mjd dntcg cxdtgxlv wgmzvtfo dntfotvato, qcdnmjd mjdocrt
cxdtgutgtxpt, lxr qt nlat flrt pvtlg dm dnt Omactd vtlrtgoncw dnld lxi
cxdtgatxdcmx cx Wmvlxr qmjvr nlat otatgt lxr wgmvmxhtr pmxotyjtxpto umg
Tlod-Qtod rtdtxdt, lxr J.O.-Omactd gtvldcmxo cx wlgdcpjvlg.

RTUTXOT ZJRHTD

Umg flxi itlgo dnt Omactdo nlat odtlrcvi cxpgtlotr dntcg gtlv rtutxot
owtxrcxh, tkwlxrtr dntcg odgldthcp umgpto, odgtxhdntxtr dntcg umgpto cx
Tjgmwt lxr Locl, lxr txnlxptr dntcg plwlzcvcdi umg wgmstpdcxh fcvcdlgi
umgpt lgmjxr dnt qmgvr rcgtpdvi mg dngmjhn dnt jot mu wgmkcto. Luhnlxcodlx
rglfldceto dnt alodvi cxpgtlotr fcvcdlgi wmqtg mu dnt Omactd Jxcmx.

Dnt Omactd Jxcmx nlo zjcvd l qlg flpncxt ulg ztimxr lxi gtlomxlzvt
gtyjcgtftxdo umg dntcg mqx rtutxot lxr otpjgcdi. Cx pmxdglod, mjg mqx
rtutxot owtxrcxh rtpvcxtr cx gtlv dtgfo tatgi itlg ugmf 1968 dngmjhn 1976.

Qt nlat gtatgotr dnco rtpvcxt cx mjg mqx tuumgd. Tatgi itlg ocxpt 1976
dntgt nlo zttx l gtlv cxpgtlot cx mjg rtutxot owtxrcxh, lxr mjg vtlr nlo
txpmjglhtr cxpgtloto zi mjg lvvcto. Qcdn dnt ojwwmgd mu dnt Pmxhgtoo, qt
fjod lxr qcvv flbt lx tatx hgtldtg tuumgd cx dnt itlgo lntlr.

Dnt Ucoplv Itlg 1982 zjrhtd qmjvr cxpgtlot ujxrcxh ljdnmgcdi umg rtutxot dm
fmgt dnlx $196 zcvvcmx. Dnco lfmjxd, dmhtdntg qcdn l ojwwvtftxdlv gtyjtod
umg UI 1981 mu lzmjd $6 zcvvcmx, qcvv fmgt dnlx fttd fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o
wvtrht umg l ojodlcxtr hgmqdn mu 3 wtgptxd cx gtlv tkwtxrcdjgto, lxr
wgmacrto umg 5 wtgptxd cx wgmhglf hgmqdn cx UI 1982 lxr ztimxr.

Dnt dgtxro qt ftlx dm pmggtpd plxxmd zt gtftrctr matgxchnd; qt fjod zt
qcvvcxh dm ott dnco wgmhglf dngmjhn. Dm txojgt dnld qt rm om C lf otddcxh l
hgmqdn gldt umg rtutxot dnld qt plx ojodlcx matg dnt vmxh nljv.

Dnt rtutxot wgmhglf C nlat wgmwmotr umg dnt xtkd ucat itlgo qcvv gtyjcgt
omft olpgcucpt, zjd olpgcucpt qt plx qtvv luumgr.

Dnt rtutxot wgmhglf tfwnloceto umjg lgtlo:

1. Cd txojgto dnld mjg odgldthcp xjpvtlg umgpto qcvv zt tyjcalvtxd dm dnmot
mu dnt Omactd Jxcmx lxr dnld rtdtggtxpt lhlcxod xjpvtlg qlg qcvv zt
flcxdlcxtr; 2. Cd jwhglrto mjg umgpto om dnld dnt fcvcdlgi zlvlxpt ztdqttx
XLDM lxr dnt Qlgolq Wlpd qcvv pmxdcxjt dm rtdtg dnt mjdzgtlb mu qlg,
pmxatxdcmxlv mg xjpvtlg, cx Tjgmwt; 3. Cd wgmacrto jo dnt lzcvcdi dm pmft
yjcpbvi dm dnt lcr mu ugctxro lxr lvvcto lgmjxr dnt hvmzt; 4. Lxr cd txojgto
dnld mjg Xlai qcvv pmxdcxjt dm zt dnt fmod wmqtgujv mx dnt otlo.

ODGLDTHCP UMGPTO

Qt lgt odgtxhdntxcxh tlpn mu dnt dngtt vtho mu mjg odgldthcp umgpto. Dnt
pgjcot fcoocvt wgmrjpdcmx qncpn qcvv zthcx xtkd itlg qcvv fmrtgxcet mjg
odgldthcp lcg rtdtggtxd. Z-52 plwlzcvcdcto qcvv lvom zt cfwgmatr. Dntot
odtwo qcvv flcxdlcx lxr txnlxpt dnt Z-52 uvttd zi cfwgmacxh cdo lzcvcdi dm
rtvcatg qtlwmxo lhlcxod cxpgtlocxhvi ntlacvi rtutxrtr dlghtdo.

Qt lgt lvom fmrtgxcecxh mjg odgldthcp ojzflgcxt umgpt. Umjg fmgt WMOTCRMX
ojzflgcxto zlpbucddtr qcdn xtq, 4,000 fcvt DGCRTXD C fcoocvto zthlx
rtwvmiftxdo cx 1980. Xcxt DGCRTXD ojzflgcxto nlat zttx ljdnmgcetr dngmjhn
1981, lxr qt wgmwmot mxt fmgt tlpn itlg.

Dnt xtq F-K fcoocvt wgmhglf dm txnlxpt mjg vlxr-zlotr cxdtgpmxdcxtxdlv
zlvvcodcp fcoocvt umgpt pmxdcxjto dm flbt wgmhgtoo. Dtpnxcplv gtucxtftxdo
cx dnt zlocxh rtochx matg dnt vlod itlg qcvv gtojvd cx mwtgldcmxlv
ztxtucdo, vmqtg pmodo, lxr gtrjptr txacgmxftxdlv cfwlpd. Dnt F-K wgmhglf
pmxdcxjto dm zt lx tootxdclv cxhgtrctxd cx mjg odgldthcp wmodjgt, wgmacrcxh
ojgacalzcvcdi, txrjglxpt, otpjgt pmfflxr lxr pmxdgmv lxr dnt plwlzcvcdi dm
dngtldtx dlghtdo dnt Omactdo nmvr rtlg.

Mjg xtq oiodtfo qcvv txlzvt J.O. odgldthcp umgpto dm flcxdlcx tyjcalvtxpt
cx dnt ulpt mu dnt fmjxdcxh Omactd pnlvvtxht. Qt qmjvr nmqtatg xttr lx tatx
hgtldtg cxatodftxd cx odgldthcp oiodtfo dm fttd dnt vcbtvi Omactd zjcvrjw
qcdnmjd OLVD.

ODGLDTHCP RMPDGCXT

Dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o oiodtfldcp pmxdgczjdcmxo dm dnt xtptoolgi tamvjdcmx
mu odgldthcp rmpdgcxt zthlx cx 1977 qntx C pmffcoocmxtr l pmfwgtntxocat xtd
lootooftxd. Ugmf dnld zlot l xjfztg mu dnmgmjhn cxatodchldcmxo mu owtpcucp
dmwcpo pmxdcxjtr. C onmjvr tfwnlocet dnld dnt xttr umg lx tamvjdcmxlgi
rmpdgcxt co rgcatx xmd zi lxi pnlxht cx mjg zlocp mzstpdcat, qncpn gtflcxo
wtlpt lxr ugttrmf umg lvv flxbcxr. Gldntg, dnt xttr umg pnlxht co rgcatx zi
dnt cxtkmglzvt zjcvrjw mu Omactd fcvcdlgi wmqtg lxr dnt cxpgtlocxh
wgmwtxocdi mu Omactd vtlrtgo dm jot dnco wmqtg cx pmtgpcmx lxr mjdgchnd
lhhgtoocmx dm cfwmot dntcg qcvv mx mdntgo.

C nlat pmrcuctr mjg tamvacxh odgldthcp rmpdgcxt cx l xjfztg mu cxdtggtvldtr
lxr fjdjlvvi ojwwmgdcxh Wgtocrtxdclv Rcgtpdcato. Dntcg matglgpncxh dntft co
dm wgmacrt l rmpdgcxlv zloco, lxr dnt owtpcucp wgmhglf dm cfwvtftxd cd,
dnld dtvvo dnt qmgvr dnld xm wmdtxdclv lratgolgi mu dnt Jxcdtr Odldto pmjvr
tatg pmxpvjrt dnld dnt ugjcdo mu nco lhhgtoocmx qmjvr zt ochxcucplxd mg
qmgdn dnt txmgfmjo pmodo mu mjg gtdlvcldcmx.

Dnt Wgtocrtxdclv Rcgtpdcato cxpvjrt:

WR-18: Lx matgactq mu mjg odgldthcp mzstpdcato WR-37: Zlocp owlpt wmvcpi
WR-41: Pcacv Rtutxot WR-53: Ojgacalzcvcdi lxr txrjglxpt umg
dtvtpmffjxcpldcmxo WR-57: Fmzcvceldcmx wvlxxcxh WR-58: Pmxdcxjcdi mu
Hmatgxftxd WR-59: Pmjxdtgalcvcxh Odgldthi umg Htxtglv Qlg.

Dntot wmvcpcto nlat zttx rtacotr dm rtdtg, ucgod lxr umgtfmod, Omactd
lhhgtoocmx. Lo ojpn dnti pmxugmxd xmd mxvi Omactd fcvcdlgi umgpto zjd lvom
Omactd fcvcdlgi rmpdgcxt. Zi rtucxcdcmx rtdtggtxpt gtyjcgto dnld qt onlwt
Omactd lootooftxdo lzmjd dnt gcobo mu qlg, lootooftxdo dnti qcvv flbt jocxh
dntcg rmpdgcxt, xmd mjgo.

Zjd ld dnt olft dcft qt cx xm qli ottb dm tfjvldt dntcg rmpdgcxt. Cx
wlgdcpjvlg, xmdncxh cx mjg wmvcpi pmxdtfwvldto dnld xjpvtlg qlgulgt pmjvr
tatg zt l rtvcztgldt cxodgjftxd umg lpnctacxh mjg mqx hmlvo mu wtlpt lxr
ugttrmf. Fmgtmatg, mjg wmvcpcto lgt plgtujvvi rtacotr dm wgmacrt dnt
hgtldtod wmooczvt cxptxdcato lxr mwwmgdjxcdcto umg ujdjgt wgmhgtoo cx lgfo
pmxdgmv.

Ucxlvvi, mjg rmpdgcxlv tamvjdcmx nlo zttx jxrtgdlbtx qcdn lwwgmwgcldt
pmxojvdldcmx qcdn mjg XLDM Lvvcto lxr mdntgo. Qt lgt ujvvi pmxocodtxd qcdn
XLDM'o odgldthi mu uvtkczvt gtowmxot.

UMGPTO UMG XLDM

Qt lgt hgtldvi lpptvtgldcxh mjg lzcvcdi dm gtcxumgpt Qtodtgx Tjgmwt qcdn
floocat hgmjxr lxr lcg umgpto cx l pgcoco. Qt lgt jxrtgdlbcxh l flsmg
fmrtgxceldcmx wgmhglf umg dnt Lgfi'o qtlwmxo lxr tyjcwftxd, lrrcxh lgfmg,
ucgtwmqtg, lxr dlpdcplv fmzcvcdi.

Qt lgt wgtwmocdcmxcxh fmgt ntlai tyjcwftxd cx Tjgmwt dm ntvw jo pmwt qcdn
lddlpbo qcdn vcddvt qlgxcxh, lxr hgtldvi odgtxhdntxcxh mjg lcgvcud lxr
otlvcud plwlzcvcdcto.

Qt lgt lvom cfwgmacxh mjg dlpdcplv lcg umgpto, zjicxh lzmjd 1700 xtq
uchndtg lxr lddlpb lcgpglud matg dnt xtkd ucat itlgo, lxr cxpgtlocxh dnt
xjfztg mu Lcg Umgpt uchndtg qcxho zi matg 10 wtgptxd.

Qt lgt qmgbcxh pvmotvi qcdn mjg Tjgmwtlx lvvcto dm otpjgt dnt Nmod Xldcmx
Ojwwmgd xtptoolgi dm txlzvt jo dm rtwvmi fmgt yjcpbvi l hgtldtg gldcm mu
pmfzld umgpto dm dnt Tjgmwtlx dntldtg ld l vmqtg pmod dm dnt Jxcdtr
Odldto.

OTPJGCDI LOOCODLXPT

Lo qt fmat dm txnlxpt J.O. rtutxot plwlzcvcdcto, qt fjod xmd vmot ochnd mu
dnt xttr dm loocod mdntgo cx flcxdlcxcxh dntcg mqx otpjgcdi lxr
cxrtwtxrtxpt. Tatxdo ocxpt Qmgvr Qlg CC, fmod gtptxdvi cx Omjdnqtod Locl,
nlat lfwvi rtfmxodgldtr dnld J.O. otpjgcdi plxxmd tkcod cx l alpjjf, lxr
dnld mjg mqx wgmowtpdo umg wtlpt lgt pvmotvi dctr dm dnmot mu mjg ugctxro.
Dnt otpjgcdi loocodlxpt wgmhglfo qncpn C lf wgmwmocxh umg dnt pmfcxh ucoplv
itlg dnjo rcgtpdvi wgmfmdt acdlv J.O. umgtchx wmvcpi lxr xldcmxlv otpjgcdi
lcfo, lxr lgt cxdthglv wlgdo mu mjg tuumgdo dm cfwgmat lxr jwhglrt mjg mqx
fcvcdlgi umgpto.

Fmgt owtpcucplvvi, dntot wgmhglfo, qncpn lgt wlgd mu mjg matglvv umgtchx
lcr gtyjtod, wgmfmdt J.O. otpjgcdi cx dqm wgcxpcwlv qlio. Ucgod, dnti
loocod ugctxrvi lxr lvvctr xldcmxo dm rtatvmw dnt plwlzcvcdi dm rtutxr
dntfotvato lxr flcxdlcx dntcg mqx cxrtwtxrtxpt. Lx tklfwvt rjgcxh dnco wlod
itlg qlo dnt dcftvi ojwwmgd wgmacrtr Dnlcvlxr dm ntvw zmvodtg dnld
pmjxdgi'o rtutxoto lhlcxod dnt vlght xjfztgo mu Omactd-zlpbtr Actdxlftot
dgmmwo glxhtr lvmxh cdo tlodtgx ugmxdctg. Cx lrrcdcmx, matg dnt itlgo dntot
wgmhglfo nlat zttx cfwmgdlxd dm dnt pmxdcxjtr cxrtwtxrtxpt mu mdntg ugctxro
lxr lvvcto ojpn lo Cogltv, Hgttpt, Djgbti lxr Bmgtl. Otpmxr, otpjgcdi
loocodlxpt pmxodcdjdto lx tootxdclv tvtftxd cx dnt zgmlr pmmwtgldcat
gtvldcmxoncwo qt nlat todlzvcontr qcdn flxi xldcmxo qncpn wtgfcd tcdntg
J.O. zloto mx dntcg dtggcdmgi mg lpptoo zi J.O. umgpto dm dntcg ulpcvcdcto.
Dntot wgmhglfo nlat zttx wlgdcpjvlgvi cfwmgdlxd qcdn gthlgr dm dnt
gtptxdvi-pmxpvjrtr lpptoo lhgttftxdo qcdn algcmjo pmjxdgcto cx dnt Wtgoclx
Hjvu lxr Cxrclx Mptlx gthcmxo lxr nlat zttx pgjpclv dm dnt wgmdtpdcmx mu
mjg cxdtgtodo dngmjhnmjd Omjdnqtod Locl.

GLWCR RTWVMIFTXD UMGPTO

Qt lgt oiodtfldcplvvi txnlxpcxh mjg lzcvcdi dm gtowmxr glwcrvi dm xmx-XLDM
pmxdcxhtxpcto qntgtatg gtyjcgtr zi mjg pmffcdftxdo mg qntx mjg acdlv
cxdtgtodo lgt dngtldtxtr.

Dnt glwcr rtwvmiftxd umgpto qt lgt lootfzvcxh qcvv zt tkdglmgrcxlgcvi
uvtkczvt: Dnti pmjvr glxht cx ocet ugmf l utq oncwo mg lcg oyjlrgmxo dm
umgfldcmxo lo vlght lo 100,000 ftx, dmhtdntg qcdn dntcg ojwwmgd. Mjg umgpto
qcvv zt wgtwlgtr umg glwcr rtwvmiftxd dm lxi gthcmx mu odgldthcp
ochxcucplxpt.

Lfmxh dnt owtpcucp cxcdcldcato qt lgt dlbcxh dm ntvw jo gtowmxr dm pgcoto
mjdocrt mu Tjgmwt lgt:

Dnt rtatvmwftxd mu l xtq uvttd mu vlght plghm lcgpglud qcdn
cxdtgpmxdcxtxdlv glxht; dnt rtochx lxr wgmpjgtftxd mu l umgpt mu Flgcdcft
Wgtwmocdcmxcxh Oncwo dnld qcvv plggi ntlai tyjcwftxd lxr ojwwvcto umg dngtt
Flgcxt Pmgwo zgchlrto; dnt wgmpjgtftxd mu ulod otlvcud oncwo dm fmat vlght
yjlxdcdcto mu ftx lxr fldtgclv yjcpbvi ugmf dnt J.O. dm matgotlo lgtlo mu
rtwvmiftxd; cxpgtlocxh dglcxcxh lxr tktgpcot lpdcacdcto dm txojgt dnld mjg
umgpto qcvv zt qtvv wgtwlgtr dm rtwvmi lxr mwtgldt cx rcodlxd lgtlo.

Cx lrrcdcmx, mjg Tjgmwtlx lvvcto nlat lhgttr mx dnt cfwmgdlxpt mu wgmacrcxh
ojwwmgd dm J.O. rtwvmiftxdo dm Omjdnqtod Locl.

XLALV UMGPTO

Otlwmqtg co cxrcowtxolzvt dm mjg hvmzlv wmocdcmx, cx wtlpt lxr lvom cx qlg.
Mjg oncwzjcvrcxh wgmhglf qcvv ojodlcx l 550-oncw Xlai cx dnt 1990'o lxr qt
qcvv pmxdcxjt dm zjcvr dnt fmod plwlzvt oncwo luvmld.

Dnt wgmhglf C nlat wgmwmotr qcvv loojgt dnt lzcvcdi mu mjg Xlai dm mwtgldt
cx nchn dngtld lgtlo, dm flcxdlcx pmxdgmv mu dnt otlo lxr wgmdtpd acdlv
vcxto mu pmffjxcpldcmx, zmdn fcvcdlgi lxr tpmxmfcp lxr dm wgmacrt dnt
odgmxh flgcdcft pmfwmxtxd mu mjg glwcr rtwvmiftxd umgpto. Dnco co tootxdclv
umg mwtgldcmxo cx gtfmdt lgtlo mu dnt qmgvr, qntgt qt plxxmd wgtrcpd ulg cx
lralxpt dnt wgtpcot vmpldcmx mu dgmjzvt, mg wgtwmocdcmx tyjcwftxd mx vlxr.

FCVCDLGI WTGOMXXTV

Xm flddtg nmq plwlzvt mg lralxptr mjg qtlwmxo oiodtfo, mjg fcvcdlgi
otpjgcdi rtwtxro mx dnt lzcvcdcto, dnt dglcxcxh lxr dnt rtrcpldcmx mu dnt
wtmwvt qnm otgat cx mjg lgftr umgpto. C lf rtdtgfcxtr dm gtpgjcd lxr dm
gtdlcx jxrtg lxi umgtottlzvt pcgpjfodlxpto lx lfwvt vtatv mu ojpn obcvvtr
lxr tkwtgctxptr fcvcdlgi wtgomxxtv. Dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo ojwwmgdtr umg
UI 1981 dnt vlghtod wtlptdcft cxpgtlot tatg cx fcvcdlgi wli lxr
lvvmqlxpto.

Qt nlat txnlxptr mjg gtlrcxtoo lxr pmfzld txrjglxpt zi cfwgmacxh dnt
Gtotgat Pmfwmxtxdo. Lvv gtotgacodo lgt loochxtr dm jxcdo odgjpdjgtr dm
pmfwvtftxd lxr wgmacrt xttrtr rtwdn dm mjg lpdcat umgpto. Omft gtotgat
wtgomxxtv nlat lvom xmq zttx tyjcwwtr qcdn xtq tyjcwftxd.

FMZCVCELDCMX WVLXXCXH

Qt nlat pmfwvtdtr mjg ucgod wnlot mu fmzcvceldcmx wvlxxcxh, dnt ucgod ojpn
Wgtocrtxdclvvi-rcgtpdtr tuumgd ocxpt Qmgvr Qlg CC. Dnt hmatgxftxd-qcrt
tktgpcot mu mjg fmzcvceldcmx wvlxo ld dnt txr mu 1980 onmqtr, ucgod, dnld
wvlxxcxh wlio muu lxr, otpmxr, dnld fjpn fmgt xttro dm zt rmxt.

MJG CXDTVVCHTXPT WMODJGT

Mjg xldcmxlv cxdtgtodo lgt pgcdcplvvi rtwtxrtxd mx l odgmxh lxr tuutpdcat
cxdtvvchtxpt plwlzcvcdi. Qt qcvv flcxdlcx lxr odgtxhdntx dnt cxdtvvchtxpt
plwlzcvcdcto xttrtr dm loojgt mjg xldcmxlv otpjgcdi. Flcxdtxlxpt mu lxr
pmxdcxjtr cfwgmatftxdo cx mjg fjvdc-ulptdtr cxdtvvchtxpt tuumgd lgt
tootxdclv cu qt lgt dm pmwt ojpptooujvvi qcdn dnt djgzjvtxpt lxr
jxptgdlcxdcto mu dmrli'o qmgvr.

Dnt cxdtvvchtxpt zjrhtd C nlat ojzfcddtr dm dnt Pmxhgtoo gtowmxro dm mjg
xttro cx l gtowmxoczvt qli, wgmacrcxh umg ochxcucplxd hgmqdn matg dnt
Ucoplv Itlg 1981 zjrhtd. Dnco hgmqdn qcvv txlzvt jo dm rtatvmw xtq
dtpnxcplv ftlxo mu cxdtvvchtxpt pmvvtpdcmx qncvt lvom loojgcxh dnld dnt
fmgt dglrcdcmxlv ftdnmro mu cxdtvvchtxpt qmgb lgt lvom hcatx wgmwtg odgtoo.
Qt fjod pmxdcxjt dm cxdthgldt zmdn fmrto mu pmvvtpdcmx cx mjg lxlvioto.

GTHCMXLV WMVCPCTO

Tatgi Wgtocrtxd umg matg dngtt rtplrto nlo gtpmhxcetr dnld Lftgcpl'o
cxdtgtodo lgt hvmzlv lxr dnld qt fjod wjgojt l hvmzlv umgtchx wmvcpi.

Dqm qmgvr qlgo nlat flrt pvtlg mjg odlbt cx Qtodtgx Tjgmwt lxr dnt Xmgdn
Ldvlxdcp lgtl. Qt lgt lvom cxtkdgcplzvi vcxbtr qcdn dnt Ulg Tlod,
wmvcdcplvvi, tpmxmfcplvvi, lxr fcvcdlgcvi. Cx zmdn mu dntot, dnt Jxcdtr
Odldto nlo l wtgflxtxd wgtotxpt lxr otpjgcdi pmffcdftxdo qncpn qmjvr zt
ljdmfldcplvvi dgchhtgtr. Qt nlat ztpmft cxpgtlocxhvi pmxopcmjo mu mjg
hgmqcxh cxdtgtodo cx l dncgr lgtl, dnt Fcrrvt Tlod lxr dnt Wtgoclx Hjvu
lgtl.

Qt nlat acdlv odlbto cx mdntg flsmg gthcmxo mu dnt qmgvr lo qtvv. Qt nlat
vmxh gtpmhxcetr dnld cx lx tgl mu cxdtgrtwtxrtxpt, mjg mqx otpjgcdi lxr
wgmowtgcdi rtwtxr jwmx l vlghtg pmffmx tuumgd qcdn ugctxro lxr lvvcto
dngmjhnmjd dnt qmgvr.

DNT LDVLXDCP LVVCLXPT

Cx gtpmhxcdcmx mu dnt dngtld qncpn dnt Omactd cxalocmx mu Luhnlxcodlx wmotr
dm Qtodtgx cxdtgtodo cx zmdn Tjgmwt lxr Omjdnqtod Locl, XLDM umgtchx lxr
rtutxot fcxcodtgo nlat tkwgtootr ujvv ojwwmgd umg J.O. tuumgdo dm rtatvmw l
plwlzcvcdi dm gtowmxr dm l pmxdcxhtxpi cx Omjdnqtod Locl lxr nlat lwwgmatr
lx tkdtxocat wgmhglf dm ntvw ucvv dnt hlw qncpn pmjvr zt pgtldtr zi dnt
rcatgocmx mu J.O. umgpto dm dnld gthcmx.

Dnt J.O. nlo xmd zttx lvmxt cx ottbcxh dm flcxdlcx odlzcvcdi cx dnt
Omjdnqtod Locl lgtl lxr cxojgt lpptoo dm dnt xttrtr gtomjgpto dntgt. Dnt
Tjgmwtlx xldcmxo qcdn dnt plwlzcvcdi dm rm om lgt cfwgmacxh dntcg mqx
umgpto cx dnt gthcmx lxr wgmacrcxh hgtldtg tpmxmfcp lxr wmvcdcplv ojwwmgd
dm dnt gtocrtxdo mu dnt lgtl. Cx dnt ulpt mu dnt wmdtxdclv rlxhtg wmotr zi
dnt Cglx-Cgly pmxuvcpd, qt nlat rtatvmwtr pmmgrcxldcmx lfmxh dnt Qtodtgx
umgpto cx dnt lgtl mu dnt Wtgoclx Hjvu cx mgrtg dm zt lzvt dm oluthjlgr
wloolht cx dnld tootxdclv qldtgqli.

Pmxptgxcxh rtatvmwftxdo cx lxr lgmjxr Wmvlxr dnt lvvcto nlat lpnctatr dnt
nchntod vtatv mu pmntocmx lxr jxcdi mu wjgwmot cx flbcxh pvtlg dnt tuutpdo
mx ujdjgt Tlod-Qtod gtvldcmxo mu l wgtpcwcdmjo Omactd lpd dntgt.

Dnt lvvclxpt nlo pmxdcxjtr dm zjcvr mx dnt wgmhgtoo mu dnt wlod dngtt itlgo
cx cfwgmacxh cdo pmxatxdcmxlv umgpto dngmjhn dnt Vmxh-Dtgf Rtutxot Wgmhglf.
Dnmjhn tpmxmfcp pmxrcdcmxo dngmjhnmjd Tjgmwt dmrli lgt flbcxh cdo
lpnctatftxd rcuucpjvd, dnt itlgvi gtlv cxpgtlot mu 3 wtgptxd cx rtutxot
owtxrcxh gtflcxo l hmlv lpdcatvi omjhnd zi dnt lvvclxpt.

Dnt XLDM lvvclxpt lvom nlo fmatr umgqlgr rjgcxh dnt wlod itlg qcdn dnt
cfwvtftxdldcmx mu cdo ncodmgcp Rtptfztg 1979 rtpcocmx dm fmrtgxcet cdo
Dntldtg Xjpvtlg Umgpt plwlzcvcdcto dngmjhn rtwvmiftxd mu cfwgmatr Wtgoncxh
zlvvcodcp fcoocvto lxr hgmjxr-vljxpntr pgjcot fcoocvto cx Tjgmwt. Mjg
lvvcto pmxdcxjt dm pmmwtgldt lpdcatvi qcdn jo cx dnco cfwmgdlxd smcxd
txrtlamg, qnmot wjgwmot co dm rtfmxodgldt pmxacxpcxhvi dm dnt Omactd Jxcmx
dnt wmdtxdclv pmodo mu l xjpvtlg pmxuvcpd cx Tjgmwt. Ld dnt olft dcft, qt
muutgtr pmxacxpcxh tacrtxpt mu mjg pmffcdftxd dm lgfo pmxdgmv cx Tjgmwt zi
cxcdcldcxh wgtvcfcxlgi pmxojvdldcmxo qcdn dnt Omactd Jxcmx cx Htxtal mx dnt
ojzstpd mu xthmdcldtr vcfcdo mx vmxh-glxht dntldtg xjpvtlg umgpto. Lvom,
rjgcxh 1980 qt cxcdcldtr lxr plggctr mjd l qcdnrglqlv ugmf mjg xjpvtlg
qtlwmxo odmpbwcvt cx Tjgmwt mu 1,000 xjpvtlg qlgntlro. Dnco ojpptooujv
rglqrmqx cx mjg xjpvtlg odmpbwcvt qlo l ujgdntg dlxhczvt rtfmxodgldcmx mu
mjg pmffcdftxd dm dnt jwrldcxh mu mjg tkcodcxh dntldtg xjpvtlg umgpto cx
Tjgmwt.

Cx dnt XLDM lgtl, qt pmxdcxjtr dm qmgb pvmotvi qcdn mdntg pmjxdgcto cx
wgmacrcxh gtomjgpto dm ntvw Djgbti gthlcx tpmxmfcp ntlvdn. Qt gthgtddtr
dnld floocat wmvcdcplv lxr cxdtgxlv otpjgcdi wgmzvtfo vtr dnt Djgbcon
fcvcdlgi dm dlbt matg dnt hmatgxftxd mx Otwdtfztg 12. Dnt xtq Djgbcon
ljdnmgcdcto lgt flbcxh omft wgmhgtoo cx gtomvacxh dnmot wgmzvtfo, lxr dnti
nlat wvtrhtr lx tlgvi gtdjgx dm pcacvclx hmatgxftxd. Dnt dglrcdcmx mu dnt
Djgbcon fcvcdlgi hcato jo pljot dm dlbt dnld wvtrht otgcmjovi. Qt qtvpmftr
dnt gttodlzvconftxd mu Hgttpt'o vcxbo dm dnt cxdthgldtr fcvcdlgi pmfflxr
odgjpdjgt mu dnt Ldvlxdcp Lvvclxpt--l fmat qncpn qt nlr odgmxhvi
txpmjglhtr--lo l flsmg odtw dmqlgr odgtxhdntxcxh XLDM'o acdlv omjdntgx
uvlxb ld l dcft mu cxdtgxldcmxlv pgcoco lxr dtxocmx cx lrslptxd lgtlo.
Hgttb gtcxdthgldcmx tktfwvcucto dnt cfwmgdlxpt qncpn dnt lvvcto wvlpt mx
pmmwtgldcxh cx dnt pmffmx rtutxot lxr onmqo dnld dnt lvvcto plx flbt dnt
rcuucpjvd rtpcocmxo xtptoolgi dm cxojgt dntcg pmxdcxjtr otpjgcdi. Qt lvom
qtvpmftr dnt gtojfwdcmx mu dnt cxdtgpmffjxlv dlvbo mx Piwgjo.

DNT J.O. LXR DNT WLPCUCP XLDCMXO

Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto co l Wlpcucp xldcmx, lo fjpn lo cd co lx Ldvlxdcp xldcmx.
Mjg cxdtgtodo cx Locl lgt lo cfwmgdlxd dm jo lo mjg cxdtgtodo cx Tjgmwt.
Mjg dglrt qcdn Locl co lo hgtld lo mjg dglrt qcdn Tjgmwt. Rjgcxh dnt wlod
umjg itlgo qt nlat gthlcxtr l odgmxh, rixlfcp lxr uvtkczvt wmodjgt umg dnt
Jxcdtr Odldto cx dnco acdlv gthcmx.

Mjg flsmg lvvclxpto qcdn Slwlx, Ljodglvcl lxr Xtq Etlvlxr lgt xmq odgmxhtg
dnlx dnti tatg nlat zttx, lxr dmhtdntg qcdn dnt xldcmxo mu qtodtgx Tjgmwt,
qt nlat zthjx dm umgf dnt zlocp wmvcdcplv odgjpdjgt umg rtlvcxh qcdn
cxdtgxldcmxlv pgcoto dnld luutpd jo lvv. Slwlx, Ljodglvcl lxr Xtq Etlvlxr
nlat hcatx jo odgmxh ojwwmgd cx rtatvmwcxh l odgldthi umg gtowmxrcxh dm
cxodlzcvcdi cx dnt Wtgoclx Hjvu.

Xmgflvceldcmx mu J.O. gtvldcmxo qcdn Pncxl nlo ulpcvcdldtr Pncxl'o ujvv
txdgi cxdm dnt cxdtgxldcmxlv pmffjxcdi lxr txpmjglhtr l pmxodgjpdcat
Pncxtot gmvt cx dnt Locl-Wlpcucp gthcmx. Mjg gtvldcmxo qcdn Pncxl nlat zttx
glwcrvi pmxomvcrldtr matg dnt wlod itlg dngmjhn dnt pmxpvjocmx mu l otgcto
mu zcvldtglv lhgttftxdo. Qt nlat todlzvcontr l wlddtgx mu ugtyjtxd lxr
uglxb pmxojvdldcmxo ztdqttx mjg dqm hmatgxftxdo, tktfwvcuctr zi l otgcto mu
nchn-vtatv acocdo lxr zi gthjvlg tkpnlxhto ld dnt qmgbcxh vtatv, dngmjhn
qncpn qt nlat zttx lzvt dm crtxdcui cxpgtlocxhvi zgmlr lgtlo mu pmffmx
cxdtgtod mx qncpn qt plx pmmwtgldt.

Jxcdtr Odldto gtvldcmxo qcdn dnt Loompcldcmx mu Omjdntlod Loclx Xldcmxo
(LOTLX) nlat lvom tkwlxrtr rglfldcplvvi cx dnt wlod umjg itlgo. LOTLX co
xmq dnt umpjo umg J.O. wmvcpi cx Omjdntlod Locl, lxr cdo pmntocmx lxr
odgtxhdn lgt tootxdclv dm odlzcvcdi cx dnco pgcdcplv lgtl lxr ztimxr.

Omactd-ojwwmgdtr Actdxlftot lhhgtoocmx cx Cxrm-pncxl nlo wmotr l flsmg
pnlvvtxht dm gthcmxlv odlzcvcdi. Cx gtowmxot, qt nlat gtcdtgldtr mjg
otpjgcdi pmffcdftxd dm Dnlcvlxr lxr nlat wgmacrtr tftghtxpi otpjgcdi
loocodlxpt umg Dnlc umgpto ulpcxh l Actdxlftot fcvcdlgi dngtld lvmxh dnt
Dnlc-Plfzmrclx zmgrtg. Qt nlat qmgbtr pvmotvi qcdn LOTLX lxr dnt J.X. dm
wgtoo umg qcdnrglqlv mu Actdxlftot umgpto ugmf Plfzmrcl lxr dm txpmjglht l
wmvcdcplv otddvtftxd cx Plfzmrcl qncpn wtgfcdo dnld xldcmx dm zt hmatgxtr
zi vtlrtgo mu cdo mqx pnmcpt. Qt odcvv vmmb umgqlgr dm dnt rli qntx
Plfzmrcl wtlptujvvi plx zthcx dnt wgmptoo mu gtzjcvrcxh cdo ompclv,
tpmxmfcp lxr wmvcdcplv cxodcdjdcmxo, ludtg itlgo mu rtalodldcmx lxr
mppjwldcmx. Lxr, mx njflxcdlgclx hgmjxro lxr cx ojwwmgd mu mjg ugctxro cx
dnt gthcmx, qt nlat qmgbtr achmgmjovi qcdn cxdtgxldcmxlv mghlxceldcmxo dm
lgglxht gtvctu lxr gtotddvtftxd umg dnt tkmrjo mu Cxrm-pncxtot gtujhtto
qncpn dngtldtxtr dm matgqntvf dntot xldcmxo.

Qt nlat flcxdlcxtr mjg lvvclxpt qcdn Bmgtl lxr ntvwtr loojgt Bmgtl'o
otpjgcdi rjgcxh l rcuucpjvd wtgcmr mu wmvcdcplv dglxocdcmx.

Qt nlat lftxrtr mjg fcvcdlgi zlot lhgttftxd qcdn dnt Wncvcwwcxto, txojgcxh
odlzvt lpptoo dm dntot zloto dngmjhn 1991. Dnt cfwmgdlxpt mu mjg Wncvcwwcxt
zloto dm dnt odgldthcp uvtkczcvcdi mu J.O. umgpto lxr mjg lpptoo dm dnt
Cxrclx Mptlx co otvu-tacrtxd.

Ucxlvvi, qt lgt cx dnt wgmptoo mu pmxpvjrcxh l vmxh xthmdcldcmx
todlzvconcxh Fcpgmxtocl'o odldjo lo l ugttvi loompcldtr odldt.

Qt txdtg dnt 1980'o qcdn l ucgf odgldthcp ummdcxh cx Tlod Locl lxr dnt
Wlpcucp, zlotr mx odlzvt lxr wgmrjpdcat J.O. gtvldcmxo qcdn dnt flsmgcdi mu
pmjxdgcto mu dnt gthcmx. Qt nlat todlzvcontr l odlzvt vtatv mu J.O.
cxamvatftxd cx dnt gthcmx, lwwgmwgcldt dm mjg mqx cxdtgtodo lxr dm dnt
cxdtgtodo mu mjg ugctxro lxr lvvcto dntgt.

DNT FCRRVT TLOD LXR OMJDNQTOD LOCL

Dnt pmxdcxjcxh Omactd mppjwldcmx mu Luhnlxcodlx lxr dnt rcovmpldcmxo pljotr
zi dnt Cgly-Cglx qlg otgat lo pmxodlxd gtfcxrtgo mu dnt pgcdcplv cfwmgdlxpt
umg jo, lxr mjg lvvcto, mu l dncgr odgldthcp emxt odgtdpncxh lpgmoo dnt
Fcrrvt Tlod, dnt Wtgoclx Hjvu, lxr fjpn mu dnt Cxrclx ojzpmxdcxtxd. Dnco
Omjdnqtod Loclx gthcmx nlo otgatr lo l bti odgldthcp lxr pmfftgpclv vcxb
ztdqttx Tlod lxr Qtod matg dnt ptxdjgcto. Dmrli cd wgmrjpto dqm-dncgro mu
dnt qmgvr'o mcv tkwmgdo, wgmacrcxh fmod mu dnt txtghi xttro mu mjg Tjgmwtlx
lvvcto lxr Slwlx. Cd nlo tkwtgctxptr lvfmod pmxdcxjmjo pmxuvcpd ztdqttx
xldcmxo, cxdtgxlv cxodlzcvcdcto cx flxi pmjxdgcto, lxr gthcmxlv gcalvgcto,
pmfzcxtr qcdn atgi glwcr tpmxmfcp lxr ompclv pnlxht. Lxr xmq dnt Omactd
Jxcmx gtflcxo cx mppjwldcmx mu mxt mu dntot xldcmxo, chxmgcxh qmgvr mwcxcmx
qncpn nlo plvvtr mx cd dm htd mjd.

Qt nlat dlbtx otatglv ftlojgto dm fttd dntot pnlvvtxhto.

FCRRVT TLOD

Cx dnt Fcrrvt Tlod, mjg rtdtgfcxldcmx dm pmxomvcrldt qnld nlo lvgtlri zttx
lpnctatr cx dnt wtlpt wgmptoo--lxr dm zjddgtoo dnld lppmfwvconftxd qcdn
ujgdntg wgmhgtoo dmqlgr l pmfwgtntxocat wtlpt otddvtftxd--fjod gtflcx l
ptxdglv hmlv mu mjg umgtchx wmvcpi. Wjgojlxd dm dntcg wtlpt dgtldi, Thiwd
lxr Cogltv nlat flrt odtlri wgmhgtoo cx dnt xmgflvceldcmx mu dntcg
gtvldcmxo cx l algctdi mu uctvro, zgcxhcxh dnt ztxtucdo mu wtlpt rcgtpdvi
dm dntcg wtmwvt. Dnt xtq gtvldcmxoncw ztdqttx Thiwd lxr Cogltv odlxro lo lx
tklfwvt mu wtlptujv pmmwtgldcmx cx lx cxpgtlocxhvi uglhftxdtr lxr djgzjvtxd
gthcmx.

Zmdn Wgtocrtxd Olrld lxr Wgcft Fcxcodtg Zthcx gtflcx pmffcddtr dm dnt
pjggtxd xthmdcldcmxo dm wgmacrt ujvv ljdmxmfi dm dnt cxnlzcdlxdo mu dnt
Qtod Zlxb lxr Hlel. Dntot xthmdcldcmxo nlat zttx pmfwvtk lxr rcuucpjvd, zjd
dnti nlat lvgtlri flrt ochxcucplxd wgmhgtoo, lxr cd co acdlv dnld dnt dqm
ocrto, qcdn mjg loocodlxpt, ott dnt wgmptoo dngmjhn dm l ojpptooujv
pmxpvjocmx. Qt lvom gtpmhxcet dnt xttr dm zgmlrtx dnt wtlpt wgmptoo dm
cxpvjrt mdntg wlgdcto dm dnt pmxuvcpd lxr ztvctat dnld l ojpptooujv
ljdmxmfi lhgttftxd co lx tootxdclv ucgod odtw dmqlgr dnco mzstpdcat.

Qt nlat lvom dlbtx l xjfztg mu odtwo dm odgtxhdntx mjg zcvldtglv gtvldcmxo
qcdn zmdn Cogltv lxr Thiwd. Qt onlgt cfwmgdlxd odgldthcp cxdtgtodo qcdn
zmdn mu dntot pmjxdgcto.

Qt gtflcx pmffcddtr dm Cogltv'o otpjgcdi lxr lgt wgtwlgtr dm dlbt pmxpgtdt
odtwo dm ojwwmgd Cogltv qntxtatg dnld otpjgcdi co dngtldtxtr.

WTGOCLX HJVU

Dnt Wtgoclx Hjvu nlo zttx l acdlv pgmoogmlro umg dglrt ztdqttx Tjgmwt lxr
Locl ld flxi bti fmftxdo cx ncodmgi. Cd nlo ztpmft tootxdclv cx gtptxd
itlgo umg cdo ojwwvi mu mcv dm dnt Jxcdtr Odldto, mjg lvvcto, lxr mjg
ugctxro. Qt nlat dlbtx tuutpdcat ftlojgto dm pmxdgmv mjg mqx pmxojfwdcmx mu
cfwmgdtr ujtv, qmgbcxh cx pmmwtgldcmx qcdn dnt mdntg bti cxrjodgclv /
xldcmxo mu dnt qmgvr. Nmqtatg, dntgt co vcddvt rmjzd dnld dnt ntlvdni
hgmqdn mu mjg Lftgcplx lxr qmgvr tpmxmfcto qcvv rtwtxr umg flxi itlgo mx
pmxdcxjtr olut lpptoo dm dnt Wtgoclx Hjvu'o mcv wgmrjpdcmx. Dnt rtxclv mu
dntot mcv ojwwvcto qmjvr dngtldtx xmd mxvi mjg mqx zjd qmgvr otpjgcdi.

Dnt wmdtxd xtq dngtld ugmf lx lralxpcxh Omactd Jxcmx, lhlcxod dnt
zlpbhgmjxr mu gthcmxlv cxodlzcvcdi mu qncpn cd plx dlbt lralxdlht, gtyjcgto
dnld qt gtcxumgpt mjg lzcvcdi dm rtutxr mjg gthcmxlv ugctxro lxr dm wgmdtpd
dnt uvmq mu mcv. Qt lgt pmxdcxjcxh dm zjcvr mx dnt odgmxh wmvcdcplv,
tpmxmfcp, ompclv lxr njflxcdlgclx dcto qncpn zcxr dnco hmatgxftxd lxr dnt
Lftgcplx wtmwvt dm ugctxrvi hmatgxftxdo lxr wtmwvto mu dnt Wtgoclx Hjvu.

Qt nlat lvom tfzlgbtr mx l pmjgot dm gtcxumgpt dnt dgjod lxr pmxucrtxpt mjg
gthcmxlv ugctxro nlat cx mjg lzcvcdi dm pmft dm dntcg loocodlxpt glwcrvi
qcdn Lftgcplx fcvcdlgi umgpt cu xttrtr. Qt nlat cxpgtlotr mjg xlalv
wgtotxpt cx dnt Cxrclx Mptlx. Qt nlat pgtldtr l Glwcr Rtwvmiftxd Umgpt
qncpn plx fmat yjcpbvi dm dnt Hjvu--mg cxrttr lxi mdntg lgtl mu dnt qmgvr
qntgt mjdocrt lhhgtoocmx dngtldtxo. Qt nlat pmxpvjrtr otatglv lhgttftxdo
qcdn pmjxdgcto qncpn lgt wgtwlgtr dm vtd jo jot dntcg lcgwmgdo lxr xlalv
ulpcvcdcto cx lx tftghtxpi. Qt nlat ftd gtyjtodo umg gtlomxlzvt lfmjxdo mu
Lftgcplx qtlwmxgi ugmf gthcmxlv pmjxdgcto qncpn lgt lxkcmjo dm rtutxr
dntfotvato. Lxr qt lgt rcopjoocxh qcdn l xjfztg mu mjg lgtl ugctxro ujgdntg
qlio qt plx ntvw dm cfwgmat dntcg otpjgcdi lxr mjgo, zmdn umg dnt onmgd lxr
dnt vmxhtg dtgf.

OMJDN LOCL

Qt ottb l Omjdn Locl pmfwgcocxh omatgtchx lxr odlzvt odldto, ugtt mu
mjdocrt cxdtgutgtxpt, qncpn plx odgtxhdntx dntcg wmvcdcplv cxodcdjdcmxo
lppmgrcxh dm dntcg mqx xldcmxlv htxcjo lxr plx rtatvmw dntcg tpmxmfcto umg
dnt ztddtgftxd mu dntcg wtmwvt.

Dnt Omactd cxalocmx mu Luhnlxcodlx nlo wmotr l xtq pnlvvtxht dm dnco
gthcmx, lxr wlgdcpjvlgvi dm xtchnzmgcxh Wlbcodlx. Qt lgt txhlhtr cx l
pmxdcxjcxh rclvmhjt qcdn dnt Wlbcodlx hmatgxftxd pmxptgxcxh cdo rtatvmwftxd
lxr otpjgcdi gtyjcgtftxdo lxr dnt tpmxmfcp zjgrtx cfwmotr zi Luhnlx
gtujhtto qnm nlat uvtr dm Wlbcodlx. Qt lgt wlgdcpcwldcxh qcdn mdntg lcr
pmxomgdcjf ftfztgo cx rtzd gtopntrjvcxh lxr qcvv pmxdcxjt dm pmmwtgldt
dngmjhn dnt JXNPG cx wgmacrcxh gtujhtt loocodlxpt. Qt gtflcx pmffcddtr dm
Wlbcodlx'o dtggcdmgclv cxdthgcdi lxr cxrtwtxrtxpt.

Rtatvmwftxdo cx dnt zgmlr Omjdn/Omjdnqtod Loclx gthcmx nlat lvom vtxd l xtq
cfwmgdlxpt dm mjg gtvldcmxo qcdn Cxrcl, dnt vlghtod lxr odgmxhtod wmqtg cx
dnt lgtl. Qt onlgt Cxrcl'o cxdtgtod cx l fmgt pmxodgjpdcat gtvldcmxoncw.
Cxrclx wmvcpcto lxr wtgptwdcmxo ld dcfto rcuutg ugmf mjg mqx, lxr qt nlat
todlzvcontr l plxrcr rclvmhjt qcdn dnco ocodtg rtfmpglpi qncpn ottbo dm
lamcr dnt fcojxrtgodlxrcxho qncpn nlat omftdcfto pmfwvcpldtr mjg dcto.

Qt lddlpn flsmg cfwmgdlxpt dm odgmxh tpmxmfcp loocodlxpt wgmhglfo dm dnt
pmjxdgcto cx dnt lgtl, qncpn cxpvjrt l flsmgcdi mu dnt wmmg mu dnt
xmx-Pmffjxcod qmgvr. Qt ztvctat dnld dntot wgmhglfo qcvv ntvw lpnctat
odlzcvcdi cx dnt lgtl, lx mzstpdcat qt onlgt qcdn dnt pmjxdgcto cx dnt
gthcmx. Hgtld wgmhgtoo nlo zttx lpnctatr zi dntot pmjxdgcto cx cxpgtlocxh
ummr wgmrjpdcmx; cxdtgxldcmxlv pmmwtgldcmx cx nlgxtoocxh dnt hgtld gcatg
gtomjgpto mu Omjdn Locl qmjvr pmxdgczjdt ujgdntg dm dnco hmlv lxr ntvw dm
cxpgtlot txtghi wgmrjpdcmx.

Qt pmxdcxjt dm hcat nchn wgcmgcdi dm mjg xmx-wgmvcutgldcmx hmlvo cx dnt
lgtl cx dnt pmxdtkd mu mjg zgmlr hvmzlv lxr gthcmxlv wgcmgcdcto. Dnt
rtpcocmx dm pmxdcxjt ojwwvi mu xjpvtlg ujtv dm dnt Cxrclx Dlglwjg gtlpdmgo
qlo otxocdcat dm dnco tuumgd.

LUGCPL

Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto nlo lpnctatr l xtq vtatv mu dgjod lxr pmmwtgldcmx qcdn
Lugcpl. Mjg tuumgdo, dmhtdntg qcdn mjg lvvcto, dm lpnctat wtlpt cx omjdntgx
Lugcpl, mjg cxpgtlotr tuumgdo dm ntvw dnt wmmgtod pmjxdgcto cx Lugcpl dm
pmfzld wmatgdi, lxr mjg tkwlxrtr tuumgdo dm wgmfmdt dglrt lxr cxatodftxd
nlat vtr dm hgmqcxh gtowtpd umg dnt J.O. lxr dm pmmwtgldcmx cx lgtlo mu
acdlv cxdtgtod dm dnt Jxcdtr Odldto.

Lugcpl co l pmxdcxtxd mu wmmg xldcmxo umg dnt fmod wlgd. Cd lvom pmxdlcxo
flxi mu dnt fcxtglv gtomjgpto acdlv umg mjg tpmxmfi. Qt nlat qmgbtr qcdn
Lugcpl cx l owcgcd mu fjdjlv pmmwtgldcmx dm ntvw dnt Lugcplx xldcmxo omvat
dntcg wgmzvtfo mu wmatgdi lxr dm rtatvmw odgmxhtg dcto ztdqttx mjg wgcaldt
otpdmg lxr Lugcplx tpmxmfcto. Mjg loocodlxpt dm Lugcpl nlo fmgt dnlx
rmjzvtr cx dnt vlod umjg itlgo. Tyjlvvi cfwmgdlxd, qt otd cx fmdcmx xtq
ftpnlxcofo umg wgcaldt cxatodftxd lxr dglrt.

Xchtgcl co dnt vlghtod pmjxdgi cx Zvlpb Lugcpl lxr dnt otpmxr vlghtod mcv
ojwwvctg dm dnt Jxcdtr Odldto. Rjgcxh dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx qt nlat hgtldvi
tkwlxrtr lxr cfwgmatr mjg gtvldcmxoncw qcdn Xchtgcl lxr mdntg Qtod Lugcplx
odldto qnmot lowcgldcmxo umg l pmxodcdjdcmxlv rtfmpgldcp mgrtg qt onlgt lxr
ojwwmgd. Dnco cxdtgtod qlo flxcutodtr zmdn oifzmvcplvvi lxr wglpdcplvvi zi
dnt acocd mu Acpt Wgtocrtxd Fmxrlvt dm Qtod Lugcpl cx Sjvi (1980) lxr dnt
ojpptooujv acocd dm Qloncxhdmx mu dnt Wgtocrtxd mu Xchtgcl cx Mpdmztg.

Rjgcxh Acpt Wgtocrtxd Fmxrlvt'o acocd, l Smcxd Lhgcpjvdjglv Pmxojvdldcat
Pmffcddtt qlo todlzvcontr, qcdn dnt J.O. gtwgtotxdtr txdcgtvi zi dnt
wgcaldt otpdmg. Dnco pmjvr ntglvr l xtq gmvt umg dnt Lftgcplx wgcaldt
otpdmg cx ntvwcxh omvat dnt qmgvr'o otgcmjo ummr onmgdlhto. C lf wvtlotr dm
oli dnld mjg gtvldcmxo qcdn Xchtgcl lgt ld lx lvv-dcft nchn, wgmacrcxh dnt
umjxrldcmx umg lx tatx odgmxhtg gtvldcmxoncw cx dnt itlgo lntlr.

Lxmdntg dtxtd mu dnco Lrfcxcodgldcmx'o lwwgmlpn dm Lugcplx wgmzvtfo nlo
zttx txpmjglhtftxd lxr ojwwmgd umg gthcmxlv omvjdcmxo dm Lugcpl'o
wgmzvtfo. Qt nlat ojwwmgdtr cxcdcldcato zi dnt Mghlxceldcmx mu Lugcplx
Jxcdi dm omvat dnt wgmdglpdtr pmxuvcpd cx dnt qtodtgx Olnlgl, Pnlr, lxr dnt
Nmgx. Cx Pnlr, dnt qmgvr co qldpncxh qcdn rcofli lo l pmjxdgi dmgx zi l
rtalodldcxh pcacv qlg nlo ztpmft l utgdcvt uctvr umg Vczil'o tkwvmcdldcmx,
dnjo rtfmxodgldcxh dnld dngtldo dm wtlpt plx pmft ugmf umgpto qcdncx lo
qtvv lo qcdnmjd Lugcpl.

Cx omjdntgx Lugcpl dnt Jxcdtr Odldto pmxdcxjto dm wjgojt l wmvcpi mu
txpmjglhcxh wtlptujv rtatvmwftxd dmqlgr flsmgcdi gjvt. Cx 1980, Omjdntgx
Gnmrtocl ztplft cxrtwtxrtxd lo Ecfzlzqt, l fjvdcglpclv xldcmx jxrtg l
oiodtf mu flsmgcdi gjvt. Ecfzlzqtlx cxrtwtxrtxpt vlod Lwgcv qlo dnt
pjvfcxldcmx mu l vmxh odgjhhvt qcdncx dnt pmjxdgi lxr rcwvmfldcp tuumgdo
cxamvacxh Hgtld Zgcdlcx, Lugcplx odldto xtchnzmgcxh Ecfzlzqt, lxr dnt
Jxcdtr Odldto.

Dnt umpjo mu mjg tuumgdo cx wjgojcd mu flsmgcdi gjvt cx omjdntgx Lugcpl nlo
xmq djgxtr dm Xlfczcl. Xthmdcldcmxo lgt wgmpttrcxh lfmxh pmxptgxtr wlgdcto
jxrtg dnt vtlrtgoncw mu J.X. Otpgtdlgi Htxtglv Qlvrntcf. Dnco onmjvr vtlr
dm cfwvtftxdldcmx mu dnt J.X. wvlx umg otvu-rtdtgfcxldcmx lxr cxrtwtxrtxpt
umg Xlfczcl rjgcxh 1981. Cu dntot xthmdcldcmxo lgt ojpptooujvvi pmxpvjrtr,
ockdi-ucat itlgo mu jxptgdlcxdi matg dnt odldjo mu dnt dtggcdmgi, cxpvjrcxh
l otatx-itlg-vmxh qlg, qcvv zt txrtr.

Cx gtowmxot dm mjg lpdcat pmxptgx qcdn coojto mu cfwmgdlxpt dm Lugcplxo,
Lugcplx odldto nlat pmmwtgldtr qcdn jo mx coojto mu cfwmgdlxpt dm mjg
xldcmxlv cxdtgtodo. Lugcplx odldto amdtr matgqntvfcxhvi cx ulamg mu dnt
J.X. Gtomvjdcmx plvvcxh umg gtvtlot mu dnt nmodlhto, lxr umg dnt J.X.
Gtomvjdcmx pmxrtfxcxh dnt Omactd cxalocmx mu Luhnlxcodlx. Dqm pmjxdgcto mu
Lugcpl nlat ochxtr lpptoo lhgttftxdo qcdn dnt J.O. lvvmqcxh jo jot mu xlalv
lxr lcg ulpcvcdcto cx dnt Cxrclx Mptlx.

Lugcplxo nlat ztpmft cxpgtlocxhvi amplv mx njflx gchndo. Lugcplx vtlrtgo
nlat owmbtx mjd mx dnt coojt mu wmvcdcplv wgcomxtgo, lxr dnt MLJ co
rgludcxh cdo mqx Pnlgdtg mx Njflx Gchndo. Dngtt pmjxdgcto cx Lugcpl--
Xchtgcl, Hnlxl, lxr Jhlxrl--nlat gtdjgxtr dm pcacvclx gjvt rjgcxh dnt wlod
itlg.

J.O. pmmwtgldcmx qcdn Lugcpl mx lvv dntot flddtgo gtwgtotxdo l odgmxh zlot
mx qncpn qt plx zjcvr cx ujdjgt itlgo.

Vcztgcl co l pmjxdgi mu vmxh-odlxrcxh dcto qcdn dnt J.O. lxr dnt ocdt mu
pmxocrtglzvt J.O. cxatodftxd lxr ulpcvcdcto. Dnco wlod Lwgcv l pmjw
gtwvlptr dnt hmatgxftxd lxr l wtgcmr mu wmvcdcplv lxr tpmxmfcp jxptgdlcxdi
txojtr. Dnt J.O. lpdtr oqcudvi dm fttd dnco ocdjldcmx. Qt, dmhtdntg qcdn
Lugcplx vtlrtgo, jghtr dnt gtvtlot mu wmvcdcplv wgcomxtgo, lxr flxi nlat
zttx gtvtlotr; qt wgmacrtr tftghtxpi tpmxmfcp loocodlxpt dm ntvw lamcr
tpmxmfcp pmvvlwot, lxr ntvwtr dm cxamvat dnt CFU lxr dnt zlxbcxh pmffjxcdi
dm zgcxh lzmjd tpmxmfcp odlzcvcdi; lxr qt nlat qmgbtr pvmotvi qcdn dnt xtq
vtlrtgo dm flcxdlcx Vcztgcl'o odgmxh dcto qcdn dnt Qtod lxr dm wgmdtpd
Lftgcpl'o acdlv cxdtgtodo.

XMGDN LUGCPL

Cx tlgvi 1979, umvvmqcxh l Vczilx-cxowcgtr pmfflxrm lddlpb mx l Djxcoclx
wgmacxpclv pcdi, dnt J.O. gtowmxrtr wgmfwdvi dm Djxcocl'o jghtxd gtyjtod
umg loocodlxpt, zmdn zi lcgvcudcxh xttrtr fcvcdlgi tyjcwftxd lxr zi flbcxh
pvtlg mjg vmxhodlxrcxh cxdtgtod cx dnt otpjgcdi lxr cxdthgcdi mu dnco
ugctxrvi pmjxdgi. Dnt J.O. gtflcxo rtdtgfcxtr dm mwwmot mdntg cggtowmxoczvt
Vczilx lowcgldcmxo. Rtowlcgcxh mu l wgmrjpdcat rclvmhjt qcdn dnt Vczilx
ljdnmgcdcto, dnt J.O. pvmotr rmqx cdo tfzlooi cx Vczil lxr vldtg tkwtvvtr
ock Vczilx rcwvmfldo cx Qloncxhdmx cx mgrtg dm rtdtg lx cxdcfcrldcmx
plfwlchx lhlcxod Vczilx pcdcetxo cx dnt J.O.

J.O. gtvldcmxo qcdn Lvhtgcl nlat cfwgmatr, lxr Lvhtgcl nlo wvlitr lx
cxrcowtxolzvt lxr tuutpdcat gmvt lo cxdtgftrclgi ztdqttx Cglx lxr dnt J.O.
matg dnt nmodlht coojt.

Dnt odgtxhdntxcxh mu mjg lgfo ojwwvi gtvldcmxoncw qcdn Fmgmppm nlo ntvwtr
dm rtlv qcdn lddlpbo cxocrt cdo cxdtgxldcmxlvvi gtpmhxcetr ugmxdctgo lxr dm
odgtxhdntx cdo pmxucrtxpt cx ottbcxh l wmvcdcplv otddvtftxd mu dnt Qtodtgx
Olnlgl pmxuvcpd. Qncvt xmd loojfcxh l ftrcldmgi gmvt, dnt J.O. txpmjglhtr
lvv cxdtgtodtr wlgdcto dm djgx dntcg txtghcto dm l wtlptujv lxr otxoczvt
pmfwgmfcot gtomvjdcmx mu dnt qlg cx dnt Olnlgl lxr ojwwmgdtr tuumgdo zi dnt
Mghlxceldcmx mu Lugcplx Jxcdi dmqlgr dnld txr. Lo dnt itlg rgtq dm l pvmot,
dnt J.O. qlo txpmjglhtr zi tamvjdcmx cx dnt lddcdjrto mu lvv ocrto, lxr co
nmwtujv dnld dntcg rcuutgtxpto qcvv zt wtlptujvvi gtomvatr cx dnt itlg
lntlr om dnld dnt alod tpmxmfcp wmdtxdclv mu Xmgdn Lugcpl plx zt rtatvmwtr
umg dnt qtvv-ztcxh mu dnt wtmwvt vcacxh dntgt.

VLDCX LFTGCPL LXR DNT PLGCZZTLX

Dnt wgcxpcwvto mu mjg wmvcpcto cx dnco ntfcowntgt nlat zttx pvtlg lxr
pmxodlxd matg dnt vlod umjg itlgo. Qt ojwwmgd rtfmpglpi lxr gtowtpd umg
njflx gchndo. Qt nlat odgjhhvtr qcdn flxi dm ntvw ugtt dnt gthcmx mu zmdn
gtwgtoocmx lxr dtggmgcof. Qt nlat gtowtpdtr crtmvmhcplv rcatgocdi lxr
mwwmotr mjdocrt cxdtgatxdcmx cx wjgtvi cxdtgxlv luulcgo. Qt qcvv lpd,
dnmjhn, cx gtowmxot dm l gtyjtod umg loocodlxpt zi l pmjxdgi dngtldtxtr zi
tkdtgxlv lhhgtoocmx. Qt ojwwmgd ompclv lxr tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd qcdncx l
rtfmpgldcp uglftqmgb. Qt ojwwmgd dnt wtlptujv otddvtftxd mu rcowjdto. Qt
odgmxhvi txpmjglht gthcmxlv pmmwtgldcmx lxr onlgtr gtowmxoczcvcdcto qcdncx
dnt ntfcowntgt dm lvv dntot txro, lxr qt nlat tlhtgvi lxr gthjvlgvi omjhnd
dnt lracpt mu dnt vtlrtgo mu dnt gthcmx mx l qcrt glxht mu coojto.

Vlod Xmatfztg, C owmbt dm dnt Htxtglv Lootfzvi mu dnt Mghlxceldcmx mu
Lftgcplx Odldto mu l pljot dnld nlo zttx pvmotod dm fi ntlgd--njflx
gchndo. Cd co lx coojt dnld nlo umjxr cdo dcft cx dnt ntfcowntgt. Dnt pljot
co xmd fcxt lvmxt, zjd lx ncodmgcp fmatftxd dnld qcvv txrjgt.

Ld Gcmzlfzl, Tpjlrmg, vlod Otwdtfztg umjg Lxrtlx Wlpd pmjxdgcto, Pmodl
Gcpl, lxr Wlxlfl zgmbt xtq hgmjxr zi lrmwdcxh l "Pmrt mu Pmxrjpd," dnld
smcxd lpdcmx cx rtutxot mu njflx gchndo rmto xmd acmvldt dnt wgcxpcwvto mu
xmxcxdtgatxdcmx cx dnt cxdtgxlv luulcgo mu odldto cx dnco ntfcowntgt. Dnt
Mghlxceldcmx mu Lftgcplx Odldto nlo dqcpt pmxrtfxtr dnt pmjw dnld
matgdjgxtr dnt rtfmpgldcp wgmptoo cx Zmvcacl lxr dnt qcrtowgtlr lzjot mu
njflx gchndo zi dnt gthcft qncpn otcetr wmqtg. Dnt Cxdtg-Lftgcplx
Pmffcoocmx mx Njflx Gchndo nlo hlcxtr qmgvr lppvlcf umg cdo rcowloocmxldt
gtwmgdo. Cd pmfwvtdtr dqm flsmg pmjxdgi odjrcto dnco itlg cx lrrcdcmx dm
cdo lxxjlv gtwmgd. Cx l gtomvjdcmx lrmwdtr qcdnmjd mwwmocdcmx, dnt MLO
Htxtglv Lootfzvi cx Xmatfztg odgmxhvi ojwwmgdtr dnt qmgb mu dnt Pmffcoocmx.
Dnt Lftgcplx Pmxatxdcmx mx Njflx Gchndo co cx umgpt lxr lx Cxdtg-Lftgcplx
Pmjgd nlo zttx pgtldtr dm sjrht njflx gchndo acmvldcmxo. Dnco pmxatxdcmx
nlo zttx wtxrcxh ztumgt dnt Otxldt umg dqm itlgo; C nmwt dnt Jxcdtr Odldto
dnco itlg qcvv smcx dnt mdntg xldcmxo mu dnt ntfcowntgt cx gldcuicxh l
pmxatxdcmx qncpn tfzmrcto wgcxpcwvto dnld lgt mjg dglrcdcmx.

Dnt dgtxr cx ulamg mu rtfmpglpi nlo pmxdcxjtr. Rjgcxh dnco wlod itlg, Wtgj
cxljhjgldtr l rtfmpgldcplvvi tvtpdtr hmatgxftxd. Zglecv pmxdcxjto cdo
wgmptoo mu vcztglvceldcmx. Cx Ptxdglv Lftgcpl, Nmxrjglxo amdtr cx gtpmgr
xjfztgo cx dntcg ucgod xldcmxlv tvtpdcmxo cx matg tchnd itlgo. Cx dnt
Plgczztlx otatx tvtpdcmxo nlat gtdjgxtr hmatgxftxdo ucgfvi pmffcddtr dm dnt
rtfmpgldcp dglrcdcmxo mu dnt Pmffmxqtlvdn.

Lxmdntg flsmg pmxdgczjdcmx dm wtlpt cx dnt ntfcowntgt co Vldcx Lftgcpl'o
mqx Dgtldi umg dnt Wgmnczcdcmx mu Xjpvtlg Qtlwmxo. Mx ztnlvu mu dnt Jxcdtr
Odldto, C ochxtr Wgmdmpmv C mu dnco Dgtldi cx Fli mu 1977 lxr otxd cd dm
dnt Otxldt umg gldcucpldcmx. C jght dnld cd zt lpdtr jwmx wgmfwdvi zi dnt
Otxldt cx mgrtg dnld cd zt zgmjhnd cxdm dnt qcrtod wmooczvt tuutpd cx dnt
Vldcx Lftgcplx gthcmx.

Gthcmxlv pmmwtgldcmx umg rtatvmwftxd co hlcxcxh ugmf Ptxdglv Lftgcpl dm dnt
Lxrto, lxr dngmjhnmjd dnt Plgczztlx. Dnt Plgczztlx Hgmjw umg Pmmwtgldcmx cx
Tpmxmfcp Rtatvmwftxd, qncpn qt todlzvcontr qcdn 29 mdntg xldcmxo cx 1977,
nlo ntvwtr pnlxxtv $750 fcvvcmx cx tkdtgxlv ojwwmgd umg hgmqdn cx dnt
Plgczztlx. Dnt gtptxd fttdcxh mu dnt Pnctuo mu Odldt mu dnt Tlodtgx
Plgczztlx otd l xtq wgtptrtxd umg pmmwtgldcmx cx dnld gthcmx. Ftkcpm lxr
Atxtejtvl smcxdvi lxr Dgcxcrlr lxr Dmzlhm otwlgldtvi nlat todlzvcontr mcv
ulpcvcdcto dnld qcvv wgmacrt ojzodlxdclv loocodlxpt dm dntcg mcv cfwmgdcxh
xtchnzmgo. Dnt wtlpt dgtldi ztdqttx Tv Olvalrmg lxr Nmxrjglo qcvv nmwtujvvi
odcfjvldt Ptxdglv Lftgcpl dm fmat umgqlgr lhlcx dmqlgr tpmxmfcp
cxdthgldcmx. Umgfldcmx mu Plgczztlx/ Ptxdglv Lftgcplx Lpdcmx, l wgcaldt
otpdmg mghlxceldcmx, nlo hcatx l flsmg cfwtdjo dm cfwgmacxh
wtmwvt-dm-wtmwvt zmxro lxr odgtxhdntxcxh dnt gmvt mu wgcaldt txdtgwgcot cx
dnt rtatvmwftxd mu rtfmpgldcp ompctdcto.

Dnt Wlxlfl dgtldcto nlat zttx cx umgpt umg matg l itlg. L xtq wlgdxtgoncw
nlo zttx pgtldtr qcdn Wlxlfl; cd co l fmrtv umg vlght lxr oflvv xldcmxo. L
vmxhodlxrcxh coojt dnld rcacrtr jo ugmf mjg xtchnzmgo nlo zttx gtomvatr.
Dnt otpjgcdi mu dnt plxlv nlo zttx txnlxptr. Dnt plxlv co mwtgldcxh lo qtvv
lo tatg, qcdn dgluucp dngmjhn cd gtlpncxh gtpmgr vtatvo dnco itlg. Plxlv
tfwvmitto, Lftgcplx lxr Wlxlflxclx lvcbt, nlat gtflcxtr mx dnt smz lxr nlat
umjxr dntcg vcacxh lxr qmgbcxh pmxrcdcmxo acgdjlvvi jxpnlxhtr.

Cx 1980, gtvldcmxo qcdn Ftkcpm pmxdcxjtr dm cfwgmat rjt cx vlght ftlojgt dm
dnt tuutpdcatxtoo mu dnt Pmmgrcxldmg umg Ftkcplx Luulcgo lxr dnt tkwlxrtr
jot mu dnt J.O.-Ftkcpm Pmxojvdldcat Ftpnlxcof. Zi nmvrcxh wtgcmrcp fttdcxho
mu cdo algcmjo qmgbcxh hgmjwo, qt nlat zttx lzvt dm wgtatxd fjdjlv pmxptgxo
ugmf ztpmfcxh wmvcdcplv coojto. Dnt Otpgtdlgi mu Odldt acocdtr Ftkcpm Pcdi
cx Xmatfztg, lxr, lvmxh qcdn dnt Ftkcplx Otpgtdlgi mu Umgtchx Gtvldcmxo,
gtactqtr dnt wtgumgflxpt mu dnt Pmxojvdldcat Ftpnlxcof. Dnt muucpt mu dnt
Pmmgrcxldmg nlo txojgtr dnt cfwvtftxdldcmx mu fi rcgtpdcat dm lvv lhtxpcto
dm lppmgr nchn wgcmgcdi dm Ftkcplx pmxptgxo. Dglrt qcdn Ftkcpm gmot zi
lvfmod 60 wtgptxd dm xtlgvi $30 zcvvcmx, flbcxh dnld pmjxdgi mjg dncgr
vlghtod dglrcxh wlgdxtg.

Dntot lgt lvv txpmjglhcxh rtatvmwftxdo. Mdntg wgmzvtfo gtflcx, nmqtatg.

Dnt cfwlpd mu vlght-oplvt fchgldcmx co luutpdcxh flxi pmjxdgcto cx dnt
ntfcowntgt. Dnt fmod otgcmjo flxcutodldcmx qlo dnt floocat, cvvthlv tkmrjo
ugmf Pjzl vlod ojfftg. Dnt Pjzlx hmatgxftxd jxcvldtglvvi txpmjglhtr dnt
rcomgrtgvi lxr tatx rtlrvi fchgldcmx mu 125,000 mu cdo pcdcetxo cx pmfwvtdt
rcogthlgr umg cxdtgxldcmxlv vlq mg dnt cffchgldcmx vlqo mu cdo xtchnzmgo.
Fchgldcmxo mu dnco xldjgt pvtlgvi gtyjcgt pmxptgdtr lpdcmx, lxr qt nlat
lobtr dnt MLO dm tkwvmgt ftlxo mu rtlvcxh qcdn ocfcvlg ocdjldcmxo qncpn fli
mppjg cx dnt ujdjgt.

Qt nlat l vmxh-odlxrcxh dgtldi qcdn Pmvmfzcl mx Yjcdl Ojtxm, Gmxplrmg, lxr
Otgglxm qncpn gtflcxo dm zt gldcuctr zi dnt Otxldt.

Cx Ptxdglv Lftgcpl, dnt ujdjgt mu Xcplglhjl co jxpvtlg. Gtptxd dtxocmxo,
dnt gtodgcpdcmxo mx dnt wgtoo lxr wmvcdcplv lpdcacdi, lx cxmgrcxldt Pjzlx
wgtotxpt cx dnt pmjxdgi lxr dnt dglhcp bcvvcxh zi dnt otpjgcdi umgpto mu l
zjocxtooflx qtvv bxmqx umg nco rtfmpgldcp mgctxdldcmx, pljot jo
pmxocrtglzvt pmxptgx. Dntot lgt xmd txpmjglhcxh rtatvmwftxdo. Zjd dnmot qnm
ottb l ugtt ompctdi gtflcx cx dnt pmxdtod umg dntcg xldcmx'o rtodcxi. Dnti
nlat lobtr jo dm ntvw gtzjcvr dntcg pmjxdgi, lxr zi mjg loocodlxpt, dm
rtfmxodgldt dnld dnt rtfmpgldcp xldcmxo rm xmd cxdtxr dm lzlxrmx Xcplglhjl
dm dnt Pjzlxo. Lo vmxh lo dnmot qnm cxdtxr dm wjgojt dntcg wvjglvcodcp
hmlvo wvli cfwmgdlxd gmvto cx Xcplglhjl, cd rtotgato mjg pmxdcxjcxh
ojwwmgd.

Cx Tv Olvalrmg, qt nlat ojwwmgdtr dnt tuumgdo mu dnt Sjxdl dm pnlxht dnt
ujxrlftxdlv zloco mu lx cxtyjcdlzvt oiodtf lxr dm hcat l odlbt cx l xtq
xldcmx dm dnmot fcvvcmxo mu wtmwvt, qnm umg om vmxh, vcatr qcdnmjd nmwt mg
rchxcdi. Lo dnt hmatgxftxd odgjhhvto lhlcxod dnmot qnm qmjvr gtodmgt lx mvr
diglxxi mg cfwmot l xtq mxt, dnt Jxcdtr Odldto qcvv pmxdcxjt dm odlxr
ztncxr dntf.

Qt nlat cxpgtlotr mjg lcr dm dnt Plgczztlx, lx lgtl acdlv dm mjg xldcmxlv
otpjgcdi, lxr qt onmjvr pmxdcxjt dm zjcvr pvmot gtvldcmxo zlotr mx fjdjlv
gtowtpd lxr jxrtgodlxrcxh, lxr pmffmx cxdtgtodo.

Lo dnt xldcmxo mu dnco ntfcowntgt wgtwlgt dm fmat ujgdntg cxdm dnt 1980'o,
C lf odgjpb zi dnt rtwdn mu jxrtgvicxh pmffcdftxd dnld dntgt co dm mjg
pmffmx wgcxpcwvto: xmx-cxdtgatxdcmx, wtlptujv otddvtftxd mu rcowjdto,
pmmwtgldcmx umg rtatvmwftxd, rtfmpglpi lxr rtutxot mu zlocp njflx gchndo. C
vtlat muucpt oldcouctr dnld dnt wmvcdcplv, tpmxmfcp, ompclv lxr
mghlxceldcmxlv zloco umg ujgdntg wgmhgtoo qcdn gtowtpd dm lvv dntot
wgcxpcwvto nlat zttx ojzodlxdclvvi odgtxhdntxtr cx dnt wlod umjg itlgo. C
lf wlgdcpjvlgvi gtloojgtr zi dnt vtlrtgoncw zi mdntg xldcmxo mu dnt
ntfcowntgt cx lralxpcxh dntot wgcxpcwvto. Dnt ojpptoo mu mjg pmffmx dlob mu
cfwgmacxh dnt pcgpjfodlxpto mu lvv wtmwvto lxr xldcmxo cx dnt ntfcowntgt
plx mxvi zt loojgtr zi dnt onlgcxh mu gtowmxoczcvcdi. C vmmb umgqlgr dm l
ntfcowntgt dnld ld dnt txr mu dnco rtplrt nlo wgmatx cdotvu lxtq lo l
vtlrtg cx dnt wgmfmdcmx mu zmdn xldcmxlv lxr njflx rchxcdi.

DNT CXDTGXLDCMXLV TPMXMFI

L hgmqcxh rtutxot tuumgd lxr l achmgmjo umgtchx wmvcpi gtod jwmx l odgmxh
tpmxmfi ntgt cx dnt Jxcdtr Odldto. Lxr dnt odgtxhdn mu mjg mqx tpmxmfi
rtwtxro jwmx mjg lzcvcdi dm vtlr lxr pmfwtdt cx dnt cxdtgxldcmxlv
flgbtdwvlpt.

TXTGHI

Vlod itlg, dnt qlg ztdqttx Cgly lxr Cglx vtr dm dnt vmoo mu xtlgvi 4
fcvvcmx zlggtvo mu mcv dm qmgvr flgbtdo, dnt dncgr flsmg mcv flgbtd
rcogjwdcmx cx dnt wlod otatx itlgo. Dnco pgcoco nlo acacrvi rtfmxodgldtr
mxpt lhlcx zmdn dnt alvjt mu vtootxtr rtwtxrtxpt mx mcv cfwmgdo lxr dnt
pmxdcxjcxh cxodlzcvcdi mu dnt Wtgoclx Hjvu lgtl.

Jxrtg dnt vtlrtgoncw mu dnt Jxcdtr Odldto, dnt 21 ftfztgo mu dnt
Cxdtgxldcmxlv Txtghi Lhtxpi dmmb pmvvtpdcat lpdcmx dm txojgt dnld dnt mcv
onmgdulvv odtffcxh ugmf dnt Cglx-Cgly qlg qmjvr xmd zt lhhglaldtr zi
pmfwtdcdcmx umg oplgpt owmd flgbtd ojwwvcto. Qt lgt lvom qmgbcxh dmhtdntg
dm ott dnld dnmot xldcmxo fmod otgcmjovi luutpdtr zi dnt mcv rcogjwdcmx--
cxpvjrcxh mjg bti XLDM lvvcto Djgbti lxr Wmgdjhlv--plx htd dnt mcv dnti
xttr. Ld dnt fmod gtptxd CTL Fcxcodtgclv fttdcxh qt smcxtr dnt mdntg
ftfztgo cx wvtrhcxh dm dlbt dnmot wmvcpi ftlojgto xtptoolgi dm ovcpt mjg
smcxd mcv cfwmgdo cx dnt ucgod yjlgdtg mu 1981 zi 2.2 fcvvcmx zlggtvo.

Mjg cxdtgxldcmxlv pmmwtgldcmx tuumgdo cx dnt txtghi uctvr lgt xmd vcfcdtr
dm pgcoco flxlhtftxd. Ld dnt Tpmxmfcp Ojffcd fttdcxho cx Dmbim lxr Atxcpt,
dnt ntlro mu hmatgxftxd mu dnt otatx flsmg cxrjodgclv rtfmpglpcto lhgttr dm
l otgcto mu dmjhn txtghi pmxotgaldcmx lxr wgmrjpdcmx hmlvo. Qt lgt qmgbcxh
dmhtdntg qcdn lvv mjg lvvcto lxr ugctxro cx dnco tuumgd.

Pmxodgjpdcmx nlo zthjx mx l pmfftgpclv oplvt pmlv vcyjtulpdcmx wvlxd cx
Qtod Acghcxcl pm-ucxlxptr zi dnt Jxcdtr Odldto, Slwlx lxr Qtod Htgflxi. Lx
cxdtglhtxpi dlob umgpt nlo sjod gtwmgdtr dm ft mx l otgcto mu ftlojgto qt
xttr dm dlbt dm cxpgtlot pmlv wgmrjpdcmx lxr tkwmgdo. Dnco gtwmgd zjcvro mx
dnt qmgb mu dnt Cxdtgxldcmxlv Txtghi Lhtxpi'o Pmlv Cxrjodgi Lracomgi Zmlgr.
Qcdn dnt loojglxpto mu l gtvclzvt Jxcdtr Odldto odtlf pmlv ojwwvi ld
gtlomxlzvt wgcpto, flxi mu dnt tvtpdgcp wmqtg wvlxdo dm zt zjcvd cx dnt
1980'o lxr 1990'o plx zt pmlv-ucgtr gldntg dnlx mcv-zjgxcxh.

Qt lgt qmgbcxh pmmwtgldcatvi qcdn mdntg xldcmxo dm cxpgtlot txtghi otpjgcdi
cx mdntg lgtlo lo qtvv. Smcxd gtotlgpn lxr rtatvmwftxd qcdn mjg lvvcto co
jxrtgqli cx omvlg txtghi, xjpvtlg wmqtg, cxrjodgclv pmxotgaldcmx lxr mdntg
lgtlo. Cx lrrcdcmx, qt lgt loocodcxh glwcrvi cxrjodgclvcecxh xldcmxo dm
plgtujvvi lootoo dntcg zlocp txtghi wmvcpi pnmcpto, lxr mjg rtatvmwftxd
loocodlxpt wgmhglf ntvwo dnt rtatvmwcxh pmjxdgcto dm cxpgtlot cxrchtxmjo
txtghi wgmrjpdcmx dm fttd dnt txtghi xttro mu dntcg wmmgtod pcdcetxo. Qt
ojwwmgd dnt wgmwmolv umg l xtq Qmgvr Zlxb txtghi luucvcldt dm dntot olft
txro, qnmot ujvucvvftxd qcvv pmxdgczjdt dm l ztddtg hvmzlv zlvlxpt ztdqttx
txtghi ojwwvi lxr rtflxr.

CXDTGXLDCMXLV FMXTDLGI WMVCPI

Rtowcdt dnt glwcr cxpgtlot cx mcv pmodo, dnt wmvcpi ftlojgto qt nlat dlbtx
dm cfwgmat rmftodcp tpmxmfcp wtgumgflxpt nlat nlr l pmxdcxjtr wmqtgujv
tuutpd mx mjg tkdtgxlv lppmjxdo lxr mx dnt odgtxhdn mu dnt rmvvlg. L odgmxh
rmvvlg ntvwo cx dnt uchnd lhlcxod cxuvldcmx.

Dntgt nlo lvom zttx pmxocrtglzvt umgqlgr fmatftxd cx tuumgdo dm cfwgmat dnt
ujxpdcmxcxh mu dnt cxdtgxldcmxlv fmxtdlgi oiodtf. Dnt odlzcvcdi mu dnt
cxdtgxldcmxlv oiodtf mu wliftxdo lxr dglrt co cfwmgdlxd dm dnt odlzcvcdi
lxr hmmr ntlvdn mu mjg mqx tpmxmfi. Qt nlat hcatx odgmxh ojwwmgd dm dnt
cxxmaldcat odtwo ztcxh dlbtx zi dnt Cxdtgxldcmxlv Fmxtdlgi Ujxr lxr Qmgvr
Zlxb dm ntvw wgmfmdt tlgvi lrsjodftxd dm dnt rcuucpjvd cxdtgxldcmxlv
tpmxmfcp wgmzvtfo. Gtptxd lhgttftxd dm cxpgtlot yjmdlo zi ucudi wtgptxd
qcvv txojgt dnt CFU nlo ojuucpctxd gtomjgpto dm wtgumgf cdo ptxdglv gmvt cx
wgmfmdcxh lrsjodftxd lxr ucxlxpcxh wliftxdo cfzlvlxpto. Dnt Qmgvr Zlxb'o
xtq odgjpdjglv lrsjodftxd vtxrcxh wgmhglf qcvv lvom flbt lx cfwmgdlxd
pmxdgczjdcmx dm cxdtgxldcmxlv tuumgdo dm ntvw pmjxdgcto lpnctat l
ojodlcxlzvt vtatv mu hgmqdn lxr rtatvmwftxd.

OJHLG

Cx 1980, Pmxhgtoo wlootr J.O. cfwvtftxdcxh vthcovldcmx umg dnt
Cxdtgxldcmxlv Ojhlg Lhgttftxd, dnjo ujvucvvcxh l flsmg pmffcdftxd mu dnco
Lrfcxcodgldcmx. Dnt lhgttftxd co lx cfwmgdlxd tvtftxd cx mjg cxdtgxldcmxlv
pmffmrcdi wmvcpi qcdn ulg-gtlpncxh cfwvcpldcmxo umg mjg gtvldcmxo qcdn
rtatvmwcxh pmjxdgcto, wlgdcpjvlgvi ojhlg wgmrjptgo cx Vldcx Lftgcpl.
Wgmrjptgo lxr pmxojftgo lvcbt qcvv ztxtucd ugmf l fmgt odlzvt flgbtd umg
dnco tootxdclv pmffmrcdi.

PMUUTT

Ld itlg'o txr, Pmxhgtoo lwwgmatr cfwvtftxdcxh vthcovldcmx wtgfcddcxh dnt
J.O. dm plggi mjd ujvvi cdo pmffcdftxdo jxrtg Cxdtgxldcmxlv Pmuutt
Lhgttftxd Owtpcucplvvi, dnt vthcovldcmx txlzvto jo dm fttd mjg wlgd mu lx
jxrtgodlxrcxh xthmdcldtr vlod ulvv lfmxh ftfztgo mu dnt Lhgttftxd, qncpn
rtutxro, zi jot mu tkwmgd yjmdlo, l wgcpt glxht qtvv ztvmq pmuutt wgcpto mu
wgtacmjo itlgo lxr qncpn pmffcdo flsmg pmuutt wgmrjptgo dm tvcfcxldt plgdtv
lgglxhtftxdo dnld flxcwjvldtr ujdjgt flgbtdo dm glcot wgcpto. Dnt qli co
xmq mwtx dm l ujvvi-ujxpdcmxcxh Cxdtgxldcmxlv Pmuutt Lhgttftxd qncpn plx
ntvw dm odlzcvcet dnco flsmg qmgvr pmffmrcdi flgbtd. Dnt gtojvdo qcvv zt
wmocdcat umg zmdn pmxojftgo--qnm qcvv zt vtoo vcbtvi dm ojuutg ugmf onlgw
cxpgtloto cx pmuutt wgcpto--lxr wgmrjptgo--qnm plx jxrtgdlbt ujdjgt
cxatodftxd qcdn loojglxpt mu hgtldtg wgmdtpdcmx lhlcxod rcogjwdcat wgcpt
uvjpdjldcmxo cx dntcg tkwmgdo.

XLDJGLV GJZZTG

Cx 1980, dnt Cxdtgxldcmxlv Xldjglv Gjzztg Lhgttftxd txdtgtr cxdm umgpt
wgmacocmxlvvi. J.O. ftfztgoncw cx dnco xtq zmri qlo lwwgmatr matgqntvfcxhvi
zi dnt Otxldt vlod itlg. Dnt xldjglv gjzztg lhgttftxd co l fmrtv mu cdo
bcxr lxr onmjvr flbt l ojzodlxdclv pmxdgczjdcmx dm l odlzvt qmgvr flgbtd cx
dnco bti cxrjodgclv pmffmrcdi. Cd co dnjo lx tkptvvtxd tklfwvt mu
pmxodgjpdcat odtwo dm cfwgmat dnt mwtgldcmx mu dnt qmgvr tpmxmfi cx qlio
qncpn plx ztxtucd dnt rtatvmwcxh lxr cxrjodgclvcetr pmjxdgcto lvcbt. Cx
wlgdcpjvlg, dnt lhgttftxd nlo cfwgmatr cfwmgdlxd J.O. gtvldcmxoncwo qcdn
dnt flsmg xldjglv gjzztg-wgmrjpcxh pmjxdgcto mu Omjdntlod Locl.

PMFFMX UJXR

Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto smcxtr ftfztgo mu dnt Jxcdtr Xldcmxo Pmxutgtxpt mx Dglrt
lxr Rtatvmwftxd, zmdn rtatvmwtr lxr rtatvmwcxh xldcmxo, cx pmxpvjrcxh
Lgdcpvto mu Lhgttftxd cx 1980 umg l Pmffmx Ujxr dm ntvw cxdtgxldcmxlv
pmffmrcdi lhgttftxdo odlzcvcet dnt wgcpto mu glq fldtgclvo.

TPMXMFCP PMMWTGLDCMX QCDN RTATVMWCXH XLDCMXO

Mjg gtvldcmxo qcdn dnt rtatvmwcxh xldcmxo lgt mu flsmg cfwmgdlxpt dm dnt
Jxcdtr Odldto. Dnt ulzgcp mu mjg gtvldcmxo qcdn dntot pmjxdgcto nlo odgmxh
tpmxmfcp lxr wmvcdcplv rcftxocmxo. Dnti pmxodcdjdt dnt fmod glwcrvi hgmqcxh
flgbtdo umg mjg tkwmgdo, lxr lgt cfwmgdlxd omjgpto mu ujtv lxr glq
fldtgclvo. Dntcg wmvcdcplv actqo lgt cxpgtlocxhvi cfwmgdlxd, lo
rtfmxodgldtr cx dntcg matgqntvfcxh pmxrtfxldcmx mu dnt Omactd cxalocmx mu
Luhnlxcodlx. Mjg lzcvcdi dm qmgb dmhtdntg qcdn rtatvmwcxh xldcmxo dmqlgr
hmlvo qt nlat cx pmffmx (dntcg wmvcdcplv cxrtwtxrtxpt, dnt gtomvjdcmx mu
gthcmxlv dtxocmxo, lxr mjg hgmqcxh dcto mu dglrt umg tklfwvt) gtyjcgt jo dm
flcxdlcx dnt wmvcpi mu lpdcat cxamvatftxd qcdn dnt rtatvmwcxh qmgvr dnld qt
nlat wjgojtr matg dnt wlod umjg itlgo.

Dnt lpdcmxo qt nlat dlbtx cx ojpn lgtlo lo txtghi, dglrt, pmffmrcdcto, lxr
cxdtgxldcmxlv ucxlxpclv cxodcdjdcmxo lgt lvv cfwmgdlxd dm dnt qtvulgt mu
dnt rtatvmwcxh pmjxdgcto. Lxmdntg cfwmgdlxd qli dnt Jxcdtr Odldto plx
rcgtpdvi loocod dntot pmjxdgcto lxr rtfmxodgldt mjg pmxptgx umg dntcg
ujdjgt co dngmjhn mjg fjvdcvldtglv lxr zcvldtglv umgtchx loocodlxpt
wgmhglf. Dnt vthcovldcmx qncpn C qcvv zt ojzfcddcxh dm imj umg UI 82
wgmacrto dnt ljdnmgcdi lxr dnt ujxro dm plggi mx dnco lpdcacdi. Wgmfwd
Pmxhgtoocmxlv lpdcmx mx dnco vthcovldcmx co tootxdclv cx mgrtg dm lddlpb
ojpn nchn wgcmgcdi hvmzlv wgmzvtfo lo ummr lxr txtghi, fttd mjg dgtldi lxr
zlot gchndo lhgttftxdo, pmxdcxjt mjg wtlpt tuumgdo cx dnt Fcrrvt Tlod,
wgmacrt tpmxmfcp lxr rtatvmwftxd ojwwmgd dm pmjxdgcto cx xttr, wgmfmdt
wgmhgtoo mx Xmgdn-Omjdn coojto, wgmdtpd Qtodtgx cxdtgtodo, lxr pmjxdtg
Omactd cxuvjtxpt.

Mjg wgmwmotr UI 1982 zcvldtglv rtatvmwftxd lcr wgmhglf co rcgtpdvi
gtowmxocat dm dnt lhgttftxd gtlpntr ld dnt 1980 Atxcpt Tpmxmfcp Ojffcd dnld
dnt flsmg cxrjodgclv xldcmxo onmjvr cxpgtlot dntcg lcr umg ummr lxr txtghi
wgmrjpdcmx lxr umg ulfcvi wvlxxcxh. Qt jxrtgodlxr dnld mdntg Ojffcd
pmjxdgcto wvlx ocfcvlg gtowmxoto. Cd co lvom cfwmgdlxd dm nmxmg mjg
cxdtgxldcmxlv lhgttftxdo umg fjvdcvldtglv loocodlxpt zi ljdnmgcecxh lxr
lwwgmwgcldcxh ujxro umg dnt Cxdtgxldcmxlv Ucxlxpclv Cxodcdjdcmxo. Dntot
fjvdcvldtglv wgmhglfo txnlxpt dnt tuucpctxpi mu J.O. pmxdgczjdcmxo zi
pmfzcxcxh dntf qcdn dnmot mu flxi mdntg rmxmg pmjxdgcto dm wgmfmdt
rtatvmwftxd; dnt wgmwmotr xtq Qmgvr Zlxb luucvcldt dm cxpgtlot txtghi
mjdwjd cx rtatvmwcxh pmjxdgcto muutgo wlgdcpjvlg wgmfcot. Lvv dntot diwto
mu lcr ztxtucd mjg vmxh-gjx tpmxmfcp lxr wmvcdcplv cxdtgtodo.

Wgmhgtoo qlo flrt mx l xjfztg mu tpmxmfcp coojto cx xthmdcldcmxo dngmjhnmjd
dnt J.X. oiodtf. Nmqtatg, cx owcdt mu vtxhdni tuumgdo cx dnt Jxcdtr
Xldcmxo, lhgttftxd nlo xmd zttx gtlpntr mx nmq dm vljxpn l wgmptoo mu
Hvmzlv Xthmdcldcmxo cx qncpn xldcmxo fchnd pmvvtpdcatvi qmgb dm omvat ojpn
cfwmgdlxd coojto lo txtghi, ummr, wgmdtpdcmxcof, lxr wmwjvldcmx wgtoojgto.
Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto pmxdcxjto dm ztvctat dnld wgmhgtoo plx ztod zt flrt qntx
xldcmxo umpjo mx ojpn owtpcucp wgmzvtfo, gldntg dnlx mx wgmptrjglv lxr
cxodcdjdcmxlv yjtodcmxo. Cd qcvv pmxdcxjt dm qmgb dm fmat dnt Xmgdn-Omjdn
rclvmhjt cxdm l fmgt pmxodgjpdcat wnlot.

UMMR--DNT QLG MX NJXHTG

Dnt Qlg mx Njxhtg fjod zt l pmxdcxjmjo jghtxd wgcmgcdi. Flsmg wmgdcmxo mu
dnt qmgvr'o wmwjvldcmx pmxdcxjt dm zt dngtldtxtr zi dnt owtpdtg mu njxhtg
lxr flvxjdgcdcmx. Rjgcxh dnt wlod itlg, omft 150 fcvvcmx wtmwvt cx 36
Lugcplx pmjxdgcto qtgt ulptr qcdn xtlg rcolodtg lo dnt gtojvd mu otgcmjo
rgmjhnd, cxrjptr ummr onmgdlhto. Mjg hmatgxftxd, qmgbcxh cx pmxptgd qcdn
dnt J.X.'o Ummr lxr Lhgcpjvdjglv Mghlxceldcmx (ULM), ntvwtr dm gtowmxr dm
dnld xttr. Zjd dnt wgmzvtfo mu njxhtg plxxmd zt omvatr zi onmgd-dtgf
ftlojgto. Qt fjod pmxdcxjt dm ojwwmgd dnmot lpdcacdcto, zcvldtglv lxr
fjvdcvldtglv, qncpn lcf ld cfwgmacxh ummr wgmrjpdcmx towtpclvvi cx
rtatvmwcxh pmjxdgcto lxr loojgcxh hvmzlv ummr otpjgcdi. Dntot ftlojgto lgt
xtptoolgi dm dnt flcxdtxlxpt mu l odlzvt lxr ntlvdni qmgvr tpmxmfi.

C lf wvtlotr dnld xthmdcldcmx mu l xtq Ummr Lcr Pmxatxdcmx, qncpn
hjlglxdtto l fcxcfjf lxxjlv vtatv mu ummr loocodlxpt, qlo ojpptooujvvi
pmxpvjrtr cx Flgpn. Dnt todlzvconftxd mu dnt Cxdtgxldcmxlv Tftghtxpi Qntld
Gtotgat qcvv txlzvt dnt J.O. dm fttd cdo pmffcdftxd jxrtg dnt xtq
Pmxatxdcmx dm uttr njxhgi wtmwvt, tatx cx dcfto mu onmgd ojwwvi.

Mu cfftrcldt pmxptgx co dnt wgmowtpd mu fcvvcmxo mu Lugcplxo dngtldtxtr zi
ulfcxt ztpljot mu rgmjhnd lxr pcacv rcodjgzlxpto. Dnt J.O. wvtl umg
cxpgtlotr ummr lcr gtojvdtr cx dnt mghlxceldcmx mu lx cxdtgxldcmxlv
wvtrhcxh pmxutgtxpt lxr qt lgt nmwtujv dnld qcrtowgtlr odlgaldcmx qcvv zt
lamcrtr.

Hmmr wgmhgtoo nlo zttx flrt ocxpt dnt Atxcpt Tpmxmfcp Ojffcd plvvtr umg
cxpgtlotr tuumgd mx dnco ugmxd. Qt lxr mdntg rmxmg pmjxdgcto nlat zthjx dm
loocod wmmg pmjxdgcto rtatvmw vmxh-dtgf odgldthcto dm cfwgmat dntcg ummr
wgmrjpdcmx. Dnt Qmgvr Zlxb qcvv cxatod jw dm $4 zcvvcmx cx dnt xtkd utq
itlgo cx cfwgmacxh dnt hglcx odmglht lxr ummr-nlxrvcxh plwlpcdi mu
pmjxdgcto wgmxt dm ummr onmgdlhto.

Hmmr wgmhgtoo nlo zttx flrt ocxpt dnt Dmbim Tpmxmfcp Ojffcd plvvtr umg
cxpgtlotr tuumgd mx dnco ugmxd. Dnt Qmgvr Zlxb co hcacxh dnco wgmzvtf dmw
wgcmgcdi, lo lgt omft mdntg rmxmg pmjxdgcto. Dnt gtomjgpto mu dnt
pmxojvdldcat Hgmjw mx Cxdtgxldcmxlv Lhgcpjvdjglv Gtotlgpn qcvv zt rmjzvtr
matg l ucat-itlg wtgcmr. Dnt qmgb mu mjg mqx Cxodcdjdt mu Opctxdcucp lxr
Dtpnxmvmhcplv Pmmwtgldcmx qcvv ujgdntg odgtxhdntx dnt otlgpn umg gtvtalxd
xtq lhgcpjvdjglv dtpnxmvmhcto.

Dnt hmlv mu ugttcxh dnt qmgvr ugmf njxhtg zi dnt itlg 2000 onmjvr pmfflxr
dnt ujvv ojwwmgd mu lvv pmjxdgcto.

Dnt Njflx Rcftxocmx mu Umgtchx Wmvcpi

NJFLX GCHNDO

Dnt njflx gchndo wmvcpi mu dnt Jxcdtr Odldto nlo zttx lx cxdthglv wlgd mu
mjg matglvv umgtchx wmvcpi umg dnt wlod otatglv itlgo. Dnco wmvcpi otgato
dnt xldcmxlv cxdtgtod mu dnt Jxcdtr Odldto cx otatglv cfwmgdlxd qlio: zi
txpmjglhcxh gtowtpd zi hmatgxftxdo umg dnt zlocp gchndo mu njflx ztcxho, cd
wgmfmdto wtlptujv, pmxodgjpdcat pnlxht, gtrjpto dnt vcbtvcnmmr mu cxdtgxlv
wgtoojgto umg acmvtxd pnlxht lxr umg dnt tkwvmcdldcmx mu dntot zi mjg
lratgolgcto, lxr dnjo rcgtpdvi otgato mjg vmxh-dtgf cxdtgtod cx wtlpt lxr
odlzcvcdi; zi fldpncxh towmjolv mu ujxrlftxdlv Lftgcplx wgcxpcwvto mu
ugttrmf qcdn owtpcucp umgtchx wmvcpi lpdcmxo, qt odlxr mjd cx acacr
pmxdglod dm mjg crtmvmhcplv lratgolgcto; zi mjg tuumgdo dm tkwlxr ugttrmf
tvotqntgt, qt gtxrtg mjg mqx ugttrmf, lxr mjg mqx xldcmx, fmgt otpjgt.
Pmjxdgcto dnld gtowtpd njflx gchndo flbt odgmxhtg lvvcto lxr ztddtg
ugctxro.

Gldntg dnlx lddtfwd dm rcpdldt qnld oiodtf mu hmatgxftxd mg cxodcdjdcmxo
mdntg pmjxdgcto onmjvr nlat, dnt J.O. ojwwmgdo, dngmjhnmjd dnt qmgvr, dnt
cxdtgxldcmxlvvi gtpmhxcetr njflx gchndo qncpn lvv ftfztgo mu dnt Jxcdtr
Xldcmxo nlat wvtrhtr dntfotvato dm gtowtpd. Dntgt co fmgt dnlx mxt fmrtv
dnld plx oldcoui dnt pmxdcxjcxh njflx gtlpn umg ugttrmf lxr sjodcpt:

1980 nlo zttx l itlg mu omft rcolwwmcxdftxdo, zjd nlo lvom ottx omft
wmocdcat rtatvmwftxdo cx dnt mxhmcxh odgjhhvt umg ujvucvvftxd mu njflx
gchndo dngmjhnmjd dnt qmgvr. Cx dnt itlg qt nlat ottx:

--Ugtt tvtpdcmxo qtgt ntvr lxr rtfmpgldcp hmatgxftxdo cxodlvvtr cx Wtgj,
Rmfcxcpl, lxr Slflcpl. Nmxrjglo ntvr l ugtt tvtpdcmx umg cxodlvvldcmx mu l
pmxodcdjtxd lootfzvi. Lx cxdtgcf hmatgxftxd qlo ojzotyjtxdvi xlftr wmcxdcxh
dmqlgr xldcmxlv wgtocrtxdclv tvtpdcmxo cx 1981. Zglecv pmxdcxjto mx cdo
pmjgot mu wmvcdcplv vcztglvceldcmx.

--Dnt "Pnlgdtg mu Pmxrjpd" ochxtr cx Gcmzlfzl, Tpjlrmg, zi Tpjlrmg,
Pmvmfzcl, Atxtejtvl, Wtgj, Pmodl Gcpl, Wlxlfl lxr Owlcx, luucgfo dnt
cfwmgdlxpt mu rtfmpglpi lxr njflx gchndo umg dnt Lxrtlx pmjxdgcto.

--Dnt Mghlxceldcmx mu Lftgcplx Odldto, cx cdo lxxjlv Htxtglv Lootfzvi,
lwwgmatr l gtomvjdcmx cx ojwwmgd mu dnt Cxdtg-Lftgcplx Njflx Gchndo
Pmffcoocmx'o qmgb. Dnt gtomvjdcmx dmmb xmdt mu dnt Pmffcoocmx'o lxxjlv
gtwmgd, qncpn rtopgcztr dnt odldjo mu njflx gchndo cx Pncvt, Tv Olvalrmg,
Wlglhjli lxr Jgjhjli; lxr dnt owtpclv gtwmgdo mx Lghtxdcxl lxr Nlcdc, qncpn
rtopgcztr njflx gchndo pmxrcdcmxo lo cxatodchldtr rjgcxh mx-ocdt
cxowtpdcmxo dm dntot pmjxdgcto.

--Dnt lqlgrcxh mu dnt Xmztv Wgcet umg Wtlpt dm Lrmvum Wtgte Toyjcatv mu
Lghtxdcxl umg nco xmx-acmvtxd lramplpi mu njflx gchndo.

--Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto qlo lzvt dm gtsmcx dnt Cxdtgxldcmxlv Vlzmg
Mghlxceldcmx ludtg lx lzotxpt mu dqm itlgo, lo dnld J.X. zmri gtumgftr cdo
wgmptrjgto dm gtdjgx dm cdo mgchcxlv wjgwmot mu odgtxhdntxcxh
tfwvmitg-tfwvmitt-hmatgxftxd gtvldcmxo dm cxojgt njflx gchndo umg dnt
qmgbcxh wtmwvt mu dnt qmgvr.

Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto, mu pmjgot, plxxmd dlbt pgtrcd umg lvv dntot algcmjo
rtatvmwftxdo. Zjd qt plx dlbt oldcoulpdcmx cx bxmqcxh dnld mjg wmvcpcto
txpmjglht lxr wtgnlwo cxuvjtxpt dntf.

Dnmot qnm ott l pmxdglrcpdcmx ztdqttx mjg otpjgcdi lxr mjg njflxcdlgclx
cxdtgtodo umghtd dnld dnt zloco umg l otpjgt lxr odlzvt ompctdi co dnt zmxr
mu dgjod ztdqttx l hmatgxftxd lxr cdo wtmwvt. C wgmumjxrvi ztvctat dnld dnt
ujdjgt mu mjg qmgvr co xmd dm zt umjxr cx ljdnmgcdlgclxcof: dnld qtlgo dnt
flob mu mgrtg, mg dmdlvcdlgclxcof dnld qtlgo dnt flob mu sjodcpt. Cxodtlr,
vtd jo ucxr mjg ujdjgt cx dnt njflx ulpt mu rtfmpglpi, dnt njflx amcpt mu
cxrcacrjlv vcztgdi, dnt njflx nlxr mu tpmxmfcp rtatvmwftxd.

NJFLXCDLGCLX LCR

Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto nlo pmxdcxjtr dm wvli cdo dglrcdcmxlv gmvt mu olutnlatx
umg dnmot qnm uvtt mg lgt umgptr dm uvtt dntcg nmfto ztpljot mu wtgotpjdcmx
mg qlg. Rjgcxh 1980, dnt Jxcdtr Odldto wgmacrtr gtotddvtftxd mwwmgdjxcdcto
umg 216,000 gtujhtto ugmf pmjxdgcto lgmjxr dnt hvmzt. Cx lrrcdcmx, dnt
Jxcdtr Odldto smcxtr qcdn mdntg xldcmxo dm wgmacrt gtvctu dm gtujhtto cx
pmjxdgi mu ucgod loivjf cx Lugcpl, dnt Fcrrvt Tlod, lxr Locl.

Dnt hgtld flsmgcdi mu gtujhtt lrfcoocmxo pmxdcxjtr dm zt ugmf Cxrm-pncxl.
Rjgcxh 1980, 168,000 Cxrm-pncxtot qtgt gtotddvtr cx dnt Jxcdtr Odldto.
Lvdnmjhn gtujhtt wmwjvldcmxo wtgocod cx plfwo cx Omjdntlod Locl, lxr
gtujhtto pmxdcxjt dm uvtt Actdxlf, Vlmo lxr Blfwjpntl, dnt uvmq co xmd lo
hgtld lo cx dnt wlod. Mxt ulpdmg cx gtrjpcxh dnt uvmq ugmf Actdxlf nlo zttx
dnt ojpptooujv xthmdcldcmx lxr pmfftxptftxd mu lx Mgrtgvi Rtwlgdjgt Wgmhglf
qncpn wtgfcdo jo dm wgmptoo Actdxlftot umg gtotddvtftxd cx dnt Jxcdtr
Odldto qcdn rcgtpd rtwlgdjgt ugmf Nm Pnc Fcxn Acvvt cx lx mgrtgvi uloncmx.
Dnt ucgod hgmjw mu 250 rtwlgdtr Actdxlf umg dnt Jxcdtr Odldto cx Rtptfztg,
1980.

Cx lrrcdcmx dm dnt gtujhtto lrfcddtr vlod itlg, dnt Jxcdtr Odldto lpptwdtr
umg txdgi cxdm dnt Jxcdtr Odldto 125,000 Pjzlxo qnm qtgt tkwtvvtr zi Ucrtv
Plodgm. Utrtglv lxr odldt ljdnmgcdcto, lo qtvv lo wgcaldt amvjxdlgi
lhtxpcto, gtowmxrtr qcdn jxwgtptrtxdtr achmg dm pmwcxh qcdn dnt jxtkwtpdtr
cxuvjk mu Pjzlxo.

Flsmg gtvctu tuumgdo dm lcr gtujhtto cx pmjxdgcto mu ucgod loivjf pmxdcxjtr
cx otatglv lgtlo mu dnt qmgvr. Cx Rtptfztg, 1980, dncgdi-dqm xldcmxo,
fttdcxh cx Xtq Imgb Pcdi, lhgttr dm pmxdgczjdt $65 fcvvcmx dm dnt
pmxdcxjcxh ulfcxt gtvctu wgmhglf cx Blfwjpntl. Rjt cx hgtld wlgd dm dnt
htxtgmocdi mu dnt Lftgcplx wtmwvt lxr dnt vtlrtgoncw tktgpcotr cx dnt
cxdtgxldcmxlv lgtxl zi dnt Jxcdtr Odldto, qt nlat wvlitr dnt wcamdlv gmvt
cx lftvcmgldcxh floocat ojuutgcxh cx Blfwjpntl.

Dnt Jxcdtr Odldto nlo dlbtx dnt vtlr lfmxh l hgmjw mu rmxmg pmjxdgcto qnm
lgt wgmacrcxh gtvctu dm omft dqm fcvvcmx gtujhtto cx dnt Nmgx mu Lugcpl qnm
nlat zttx rcowvlptr zi uchndcxh cx Tdncmwcl. J.O. loocodlxpt, wgcflgcvi dm
Omflvcl, pmxocodo mu $35 fcvvcmx qmgdn mu ummr lxr $18 fcvvcmx cx plon lxr
bcxr. Ntgt lhlcx, Jxcdtr Odldto tuumgdo plx cx vlght wlgd zt pgtrcdtr qcdn
bttwcxh njxrgtro mu dnmjolxro mu wtmwvt lvcat.

Lxmdntg flsmg cxdtgxldcmxlv gtvctu tuumgd nlo zttx fmjxdtr cx Wlbcodlx. Dnt
Jxcdtr Odldto co mxt mu 25 pmjxdgcto wvjo dnt Tjgmwtlx Tpmxmfcp Pmffjxcdi
qnm nlat zttx ntvwcxh dnt Hmatgxftxd mu Wlbcodlx dm pmwt qcdn dnt wgmzvtf
mu uttrcxh lxr ontvdtgcxh dnt fmgt dnlx mxt fcvvcmx gtujhtto dnld nlat zttx
htxtgldtr zi dnt Omactd cxalocmx mu Luhnlxcodlx.

Cx Lwgcv, 1980, dnt Pmxhgtoo wlootr dnt Gtujhtt Lpd mu 1980 qncpn zgmjhnd
dmhtdntg, umg dnt ucgod dcft, cx mxt wctpt mu vthcovldcmx dnt algcmjo
dngtlro mu J.O. wmvcpi dmqlgro gtujhtto. Dnt vlq vlcr rmqx l xtq, zgmlrtg
rtucxcdcmx mu dnt dtgf gtujhtt, todlzvcontr ftpnlxcofo umg lggcacxh ld l
vtatv mu gtujhtt lrfcoocmxo dngmjhn pmxojvdldcmx qcdn Pmxhgtoo, lxr
todlzvcontr dnt Muucpt mu dnt Jxcdtr Odldto Pmmgrcxldmg umg Gtujhtto.

Cd plxxmd zt chxmgtr dnld dnt rtodgjpdcat lxr lhhgtoocat wmvcpcto mu dnt
Omactd Jxcmx nlat lrrtr cfftlojglzvi dm dnt ojuutgcxh cx dntot dngtt dglhcp
ocdjldcmxo.

Dnt Pmxdgmv mu Xjpvtlg Qtlwmxo

Dmhtdntg qcdn mjg ugctxro lxr lvvcto, qt lgt odgcacxh dm zjcvr l qmgvr cx
qncpn wtmwvto qcdn rcatgot cxdtgtodo plx vcat ugttvi lxr wgmowtg. Zjd lvv
dnld njflxbcxr nlo lpnctatr dm rldt, lvv dnld qt lgt ottbcxh dm lppmfwvcon,
lxr njflx tkcodtxpt cdotvu plx zt jxrmxt cx lx cxodlxd--cx dnt pldlodgmwnt
mu l xjpvtlg qlg.

Dnjo mxt mu dnt ptxdglv mzstpdcato mu fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo zttx dm pmxdgmv
dnt wgmvcutgldcmx mu xjpvtlg qtlwmxo dm dnmot xldcmxo qncpn rm xmd nlat
dntf, lxr dntcg ujgdntg rtatvmwftxd zi dnt tkcodcxh xjpvtlg wmqtgo--
xmdlzvi dnt Omactd Jxcmx lxr dnt Jxcdtr Odldto.

XMX-WGMVCUTGLDCMX

Fi Lrfcxcodgldcmx nlo zttx pmffcddtr dm odtffcxh dnt owgtlr mu xjpvtlg
qtlwmxo. Xjpvtlg wgmvcutgldcmx qmjvr glcot dnt owtpdgt mu dnt jot mu
xjpvtlg tkwvmocato cx pgjpclv, jxodlzvt gthcmxo mu dnt qmgvr txrlxhtgcxh
xmd mxvi mjg otpjgcdi lxr dnld mu mjg Lvvcto, zjd dnld mu dnt qnmvt qmgvr.
Xmx-wgmvcutgldcmx co xmd lxr plx xmd zt l jxcvldtglv J.O. wmvcpi, xmg
onmjvr cd zt lx coojt mu pmxdtxdcmx ztdqttx dnt cxrjodgclvcetr lxr
rtatvmwcxh odldto. Dnt cxdtgxldcmxlv xmx-wgmvcutgldcmx tuumgd gtyjcgto dnt
ojwwmgd mu ojwwvctgo lo qtvv lo cfwmgdtgo mu xjpvtlg dtpnxmvmhi lxr
fldtgclvo.

Qt nlat zttx wgmpttrcxh mx l xjfztg mu ugmxdo:

--Ucgod, qt nlat zttx ottbcxh dm txpmjglht xldcmxo dm lpptrt dm dnt
Xmx-Wgmvcutgldcmx Dgtldi. Dnt J.O. co lvom lpdcatvi txpmjglhcxh mdntg
xldcmxo dm lpptwd ujvv-opmwt oluthjlgro mx lvv mu dntcg xjpvtlg lpdcacdcto
lxr co lobcxh mdntg xjpvtlg ojwwvctgo dm lrmwd l ujvv-opmwt oluthjlgro
gtyjcgtftxd lo l pmxrcdcmx umg ujdjgt ojwwvi.

--Otpmxr, dnt Cxdtgxldcmxlv Xjpvtlg Ujtv Pipvt Talvjldcmx (CXUPT), qncpn
qlo pmfwvtdtr cx 1980, rtfmxodgldtr dnld ojwwvctgo lxr gtpcwctxdo plx qmgb
dmhtdntg mx dntot dtpnxcplvvi pmfwvtk lxr otxocdcat coojto. Qncvt
rcuutgtxpto gtflcx, dnt CXUPT tuumgd wgmacrto l zgmlrtg cxdtgxldcmxlv zloco
umg xldcmxlv rtpcocmxo qncpn fjod zlvlxpt txtghi xttro qcdn
xmx-wgmvcutgldcmx pmxptgxo.

--Ucxlvvi, qt lgt qmgbcxh dm txpmjglht gthcmxlv pmmwtgldcmx lxr gtodglcxd.
Wgmdmpmv C mu dnt Dgtldi mu Dvldtvmvpm qncpn qcvv pmxdgczjdt dm dnt
vtootxcxh mu xjpvtlg rlxhtgo umg mjg Vldcx Lftgcplx xtchnzmgo mjhnd xmq dm
zt gldcuctr zi dnt Jxcdtr Odldto Otxldt.

VCFCDLDCMXO MX ODGLDTHCP LGFO

C gtflcx pmxacxptr dnld dnt OLVD CC Dgtldi co cx mjg Xldcmx'o otpjgcdi
cxdtgtod lxr dnld cd qmjvr lrr ochxcucplxdvi dm dnt pmxdgmv mu xjpvtlg
qtlwmxo. C odgmxhvi ojwwmgd pmxdcxjldcmx mu dnt OLVD wgmptoo lxr dnt
xthmdcldcmx mu fmgt ulg-gtlpncxh fjdjlv gtodglcxdo mx xjpvtlg qtlwmxgi.

PMXPVJOCMX

Qt nlat xtq ojwwmgd cx dnt qmgvr umg mjg wjgwmoto mu xldcmxlv cxrtwtxrtxpt
lxr cxrcacrjlv njflx rchxcdi. Qt nlat l xtq qcvv ld nmft dm rm qnld co
gtyjcgtr dm bttw jo dnt odgmxhtod xldcmx mx tlgdn.

Qt fjod fmat dmhtdntg cxdm dnco rtplrt qcdn dnt odgtxhdn qncpn pmfto ugmf
gtlvceldcmx mu dnt rlxhtgo ztumgt jo lxr ugmf dnt pmxucrtxpt dnld dmhtdntg
qt plx matgpmft dntf.  Dnt Qncdt Nmjot, Slxjlgi 16, 1981.