Lxu azhsm hnu lutha xz dht ldz ovsml chbcbm vf Vuxh, hft ufz azhs hnu
luiussux, V xhwkzt osui dzsz lu ldz Xdvlz Dubmz lu lhkz be ldz tblvzm uo
Eszmvtzfl uo ldz Bfvlzt Mlhlzm. V tvtf'l kfux vl ldzf xdzf V xhwkzt, gbl
V'jz gzzf lsavfn lu mhjz zfzsna zjzs mvfcz.

V szlbsf lufvndl lu obwovww ufz uo ldumz tblvzm uo ldz Cufmlvlblvuf: lu
nvjz lu ldz Cufnszmm, hft lu ldz Fhlvuf, vfousihlvuf uf ldz mlhlz uo ldz
Bfvuf.

Ivwvlhsvwa, euwvlvchwwa, zcufuivchwwa, hft vf mevsvl, ldz mlhlz uo ubs
Bfvuf vm mubft.

Xz hsz h nszhl cubflsa, h mlsufn cubflsa, h jvlhw hft tafhivc cubflsa, hft
mu xz xvww szihvf.

Xz hsz h cufovtzfl ezuewz hft h dhstxuskvfn ezuewz, h tzczfl hft h
cuiehmmvufhlz ezuewz, hft mu xz xvww szihvf.

V xhfl lu mezhk lu aub lufvndl hgubl xdzsz xz hsz hft xdzsz xz ibml nu,
hgubl xdhl xz dhjz tufz hft xdhl xz ibml tu. Hft V xhfl lu ewztnz lu aub ia
gzml zoouslm hft hmk aub lu ewztnz aubsm.

Zhcd nzfzshlvuf uo Hizsvchfm dhm lu ohcz cvscbimlhfczm ful uo vlm uxf
cduumvfn, gbl ga xdvcd vlm cdhshclzs vm izhmbszt hft vlm mevsvl vm lzmlzt.

Ldzsz hsz lvizm uo zizsnzfca, xdzf h fhlvuf hft vlm wzhtzsm ibml gsvfn
ldzvs zfzsnvzm lu gzhs uf h mvfnwz bsnzfl lhmk. Ldhl xhm ldz tbla Hgshdhi
Wvfcuwf ohczt xdzf ubs whft xhm lusf hehsl ga cufowvcl vf ldz Xhs Gzlxzzf
ldz Mlhlzm. Ldhl xhm ldz tbla ohczt ga Oshfkwvf Suumzjzwl xdzf dz wzt
Hizsvch ubl uo hf zcufuivc tzeszmmvuf hft hnhvf xdzf dz wzt Hizsvch lu
jvclusa vf xhs.

Ldzsz hsz uldzs lvizm xdzf ldzsz vm fu mvfnwz ujzsxdzwivfn csvmvm, azl
esuoubft fhlvufhw vflzszmlm hsz hl mlhkz.

Hl mbcd lvizm ldz svmk uo vfhclvuf chf gz zrbhwwa nszhl. Vl gzcuizm ldz
lhmk uo wzhtzsm lu chww ousld ldz jhml hft szmlwzmm zfzsnvzm uo ubs ezuewz
lu gbvwt ous ldz oblbsz.

Ldhl vm xdhl Dhssa Lsbihf tvt vf ldz azhsm holzs ldz Mzcuft Xuswt Xhs, xdzf
xz dzwezt Zbsuez hft Qhehf szgbvwt ldzimzwjzm hft mzcbszt hf vflzsfhlvufhw
ustzs ldhl dhm esulzclzt oszztui osui hnnszmmvuf.

Xz wvjz vf mbcd lvizm fux, hft xz ohcz mbcd tblvzm.

Xz'jz cuiz ldsubnd h wufn ezsvut uo lbsiuvw hft tubgl, gbl xz'jz ufcz hnhvf
oubft ubs iushw cubsmz, hft xvld h fzx mevsvl, xz hsz mlsvjvfn lu zpeszmm
ubs gzml vfmlvfclm lu ldz szml uo ldz xuswt.

Ldzsz vm hww hcsumm ubs whft h nsuxvfn mzfmz uo ezhcz hft h mzfmz uo cuiiuf
ebseumz. Ldvm mzfmz uo bfvla chfful gz zpeszmmzt vf esunshim us vf
wznvmwhlvuf us vf tuwwhsm. Vl'm hf hcdvzjzizfl ldhl gzwufnm lu zjzsa
vftvjvtbhw Hizsvchf. Ldvm bfvla lvzm lunzldzs, hft vl luxzsm ujzs hww ubs
zoouslm dzsz vf Xhmdvfnluf, hft vl mzsjzm hm hf vfmevsvfn gzhcuf ous hww uo
bm xdu hsz zwzclzt lu mzsjz.

Ldvm fzx hliumedzsz tzihftm h fzx mevsvl, h ehslfzsmdve gzlxzzf ldumz uo bm
xdu wzht hft ldumz xdu zwzcl. Ldz oubfthlvufm uo ldvm ehslfzsmdve hsz
lsbld, ldz cubshnz lu ohcz dhst tzcvmvufm, cufczsf ous ufz hfuldzs hft ldz
cuiiuf nuut ujzs mezcvhw vflzszmlm, hft h ghmvc ohvld hft lsbml vf ldz
xvmtui hft mlszfnld hft qbtnizfl uo ldz Hizsvchf ezuewz.

Ous ldz ovsml lviz vf h nzfzshlvuf, xz hsz ful dhbflzt ga h ihqus
vflzsfhlvufhw csvmvm us ga tuizmlvc lbsiuvw, hft xz fux dhjz h shsz hft h
esvczwzmm ueeuslbfvla lu httszmm ezsmvmlzfl esugwzim hft gbstzfm xdvcd cuiz
lu bm hm h fhlvuf, rbvzlwa hft mlzhtvwa nzllvfn xusmz ujzs ldz azhsm.

Hm Eszmvtzfl, V'jz dht lu hmk aub, ldz Izigzsm uo Cufnszmm, hft aub, ldz
Hizsvchf ezuewz, lu cuiz lu nsvem xvld muiz uo ldz iuml tvoovcbwl hft dhst
rbzmlvufm ohcvfn ubs mucvzla.

Xz ibml ihkz h ihpvibi zoousl, gzchbmz vo xz tu ful hvi ous ldz gzml, xz
hsz jzsa wvkzwa lu hcdvzjz wvllwz. V mzz fu gzfzovl lu ldz cubflsa vo xz
tzwha, gzchbmz ldz esugwzim xvww ufwa nzl xusmz.

Xz fzzt ehlvzfcz hft nuut xvww, gbl xz szhwwa fzzt lu szhwvyz ldhl ldzsz vm
h wvivl lu ldz suwz hft ldz obfclvuf uo nujzsfizfl. Nujzsfizfl chfful muwjz
ubs esugwzim, vl chf'l mzl ubs nuhwm, vl chfful tzovfz ubs jvmvuf.
Nujzsfizfl chfful zwvivfhlz eujzsla us esujvtz h gubflvobw zcufuia us
sztbcz vfowhlvuf us mhjz ubs cvlvzm us cbsz vwwvlzshca us esujvtz zfzsna.
Hft nujzsfizfl chfful ihfthlz nuutfzmm. Ufwa h lsbz ehslfzsmdve gzlxzzf
nujzsfizfl hft ldz ezuewz chf zjzs duez lu szhcd ldzmz nuhwm.

Ldumz uo bm xdu nujzsf chf muizlvizm vfmevsz, hft xz chf vtzflvoa fzztm hft
ihsmdhw szmubsczm, gbl xz mviewa chfful gz ldz ihfhnzsm uo zjzsaldvfn hft
zjzsaguta.

Xz dzsz vf Xhmdvfnluf ibml iujz hxha osui csvmvm ihfhnzizfl, hft xz ibml
zmlhgwvmd cwzhs nuhwm ous ldz oblbsz, viiztvhlz hft ldz tvmlhfl oblbsz,
xdvcd xvww wzl bm xusk lunzldzs hft ful vf cufowvcl. Fzjzs hnhvf mdubwt xz
fznwzcl h nsuxvfn csvmvm wvkz ldz mduslhnz uo zfzsna, xdzsz obsldzs tzwha
xvww ufwa wzht lu iusz dhsmd hft ehvfobw muwblvufm.

Zjzsa tha xz mezft iusz ldhf $120 ivwwvuf ous ouszvnf uvw. Ldvm mwuxm ubs
zcufuivc nsuxld, vl wuxzsm ldz jhwbz uo ldz tuwwhs ujzsmzhm, hft vl
hnnshjhlzm bfziewuaizfl hft vfowhlvuf dzsz hl duiz.

Fux xz kfux xdhl xz ibml tu, vfcszhmz esutbclvuf. Xz ibml cbl tuxf uf
xhmlz. Hft xz ibml bmz iusz uo ldumz obzwm xdvcd hsz ewzflvobw hft iusz
ezsihfzfl. Xz ibml gz ohvs lu ezuewz, hft xz ibml ful tvmsbel ubs Fhlvuf'm
zcufuia hft ubs gbtnzl.

Fux, ldhl mubftm mviewz. Gbl V szcunfvyz ldz tvoovcbwlvzm vfjuwjzt. V kfux
ldhl vl vm ful zhma ous ldz Cufnszmm lu hcl. Gbl ldz ohcl szihvfm ldhl uf
ldz zfzsna wznvmwhlvuf, xz dhjz ohvwzt ldz Hizsvchf ezuewz. Hwiuml 5 azhsm
holzs ldz uvw zighsnu tshihlvyzt ldz esugwzi ous bm hww, xz mlvww tu ful
dhjz h fhlvufhw zfzsna esunshi. Ful ibcd wufnzs chf xz luwzshlz ldvm
mlhwzihlz. Vl bftzsivfzm ubs fhlvufhw vflzszml guld hl duiz hft hgsuht. Xz
ibml mbcczzt, hft V gzwvzjz xz xvww.

Ubs ihvf lhmk hl duiz ldvm azhs, xvld zfzsna h czflshw zwzizfl, vm ldz
Fhlvuf'm zcufuia. Xz ibml cuflvfbz ldz szcujzsa hft obsldzs cbl
bfziewuaizfl hft vfowhlvuf.

Whml azhs xhm h nuut ufz ous ldz Bfvlzt Mlhlzm. Xz szhcdzt hww uo ubs ihqus
zcufuivc nuhwm ous 1977. Oubs ivwwvuf fzx qugm xzsz cszhlzt, hf hwwlviz
szcust, hft ldz fbigzs uo bfziewuazt tsueezt ga iusz ldhf h ivwwvuf.
Bfziewuaizfl svndl fux vm ldz wuxzml vl dhm gzzf mvfcz 1974, hft ful mvfcz
Xuswt Xhs VV dhm mbcd h dvnd ezsczflhnz uo Hizsvchf ezuewz gzzf ziewuazt.

Ldz shlz uo vfowhlvuf xzfl tuxf. Ldzsz xhm h nuut nsuxld vf gbmvfzmm
esuovlm hft vfjzmlizflm, ldz mubscz uo iusz qugm ous ubs xuskzsm, hft h
dvndzs mlhfthst uo wvjvfn ous hww ubs ezuewz. Holzs lhpzm hft vfowhlvuf,
ldzsz xhm h dzhwlda vfcszhmz vf xuskzsm' xhnzm.

Hft ldvm azhs, ubs cubflsa xvww dhjz ldz ovsml $2 lsvwwvuf zcufuia vf ldz
dvmlusa uo ldz xuswt.

Fux, xz hsz esubt uo ldvm esunszmm ldz ovsml azhs, gbl xz ibml tu zjzf
gzllzs vf ldz oblbsz.

Xz mlvww dhjz mzsvubm esugwzim uf xdvcd hww uo bm ibml xusk lunzldzs. Ubs
lshtz tzovcvl vm luu whsnz. Vfowhlvuf vm mlvww luu dvnd, hft luu ihfa
Hizsvchfm mlvww tu ful dhjz h qug.

Fux, V tvtf'l dhjz hfa mviewz hfmxzsm ous hww ldzmz esugwzim. Gbl xz dhjz
tzjzwuezt hf zcufuivc euwvca ldhl vm xuskvfn, gzchbmz vl'm mviewz,
ghwhfczt, hft ohvs. Vl'm ghmzt uf oubs esvfcvewzm: Ovsml, ldz zcufuia ibml
kzze uf zpehftvfn lu esutbcz fzx qugm hft gzllzs vfcuiz, xdvcd ubs ezuewz
fzzt. Ldz osbvlm uo nsuxld ibml gz xvtzwa mdhszt. Iusz qugm ibml gz ihtz
hjhvwhgwz lu ldumz xdu dhjz gzzf gaehmmzt bflvw fux. Hft ldz lhp mamlzi
ibml gz ihtz ohvszs hft mviewzs.

Mzcuftwa, esvjhlz gbmvfzmm hft ful ldz Nujzsfizfl ibml wzht ldz zpehfmvuf
vf ldz oblbsz.

Ldvst, xz ibml wuxzs ldz shlz uo vfowhlvuf hft kzze vl tuxf. Vfowhlvuf
mwuxm tuxf zcufuivc nsuxld, hft vl'm ldz iuml csbzw lu ldz euus hft hwmu lu
ldz zwtzswa hft uldzsm xdu wvjz uf ovpzt vfcuizm.

Hft oubsld, xz ibml cuflsvgblz lu ldz mlszfnld uo ldz xuswt zcufuia.

V xvww hffubfcz tzlhvwzt esueumhwm ous viesujvfn ubs lhp mamlzi whlzs ldvm
xzzk. Xz chf ihkz ubs lhp whxm ohvszs, xz chf ihkz ldzi mviewzs hft zhmvzs
lu bftzsmlhft, hft hl ldz mhiz lviz, xz chf, hft xz xvww, sztbcz ldz lhp
gbstzf uf Hizsvchf cvlvyzfm ga $25 gvwwvuf.

Ldz lhp szousim hft ldz lhp sztbclvufm nu lunzldzs. Ufwa xvld ldz wufn
ujzstbz szousim xvww ldz obww lhp cbl gz htjvmhgwz.

Hwiuml $17 gvwwvuf vf vfcuiz lhp cblm xvww nu lu vftvjvtbhwm. Fvfzla-mvp
ezsczfl uo hww Hizsvchf lhpehazsm xvww mzz ldzvs lhpzm nu tuxf. Ous h
laevchw ohivwa uo oubs, ldvm izhfm hf hffbhw mhjvfn uo iusz ldhf $250 h
azhs, us h lhp sztbclvuf uo hgubl 20 ezsczfl. H obsldzs $2 gvwwvuf cbl vf
zpcvmz lhpzm xvww nvjz iusz szwvzo hft hwmu cuflsvgblz tvszclwa lu wuxzsvfn
ldz shlz uo vfowhlvuf.

Hft xz xvww hwmu esujvtz mlsufn httvlvufhw vfczflvjzm ous gbmvfzmm
vfjzmlizfl hft nsuxld ldsubnd mbgmlhflvhw cblm vf ldz cuseushlz lhp shlzm
hft viesujzizfl vf ldz vfjzmlizfl lhp csztvl.

Fux, ldzmz lhp esueumhwm xvww vfcszhmz ueeuslbfvla zjzsaxdzsz vf ldz
Fhlvuf. Gbl httvlvufhw qugm ous ldz tvmhtjhflhnzt tzmzsjz mezcvhw
hllzflvuf.

Xz'jz hwszhta ehmmzt whxm lu hmmbsz zrbhw hcczmm lu ldz julvfn guuld hft lu
szmlhbshflm hft lu mcduuwm, lu dubmvfn, hft whxm lu ezsivl hcczmm lu qugm.
Gbl qug ueeuslbfvla, ldz cdhfcz lu zhsf h tzczfl wvjvfn, vm hwmu h ghmvc
dbihf svndl, xdvcd xz chfful hft xvww ful vnfusz.

H ihqus esvusvla ous ubs Fhlvuf vm ldz ovfhw zwvivfhlvuf uo ldz ghssvzsm
ldhl szmlsvcl ldz ueeuslbfvlvzm hjhvwhgwz lu xuizf hft hwmu lu gwhck ezuewz
hft Dvmehfvcm hft uldzs ivfusvlvzm. Xz'jz cuiz h wufn xha luxhst ldhl nuhw.
Gbl ldzsz vm mlvww ibcd lu tu. Xdhl xz vfdzsvlzt osui ldz ehml ibml ful gz
ezsivllzt lu mdhckwz bm vf ldz oblbsz.

V'ww gz hmkvfn aub ous h mbgmlhflvhw vfcszhmz vf obftm ous ebgwvc qugm ous
ubs aubfn ezuewz, hft V hwmu hi szcuiizftvfn ldhl ldz Cufnszmm cuflvfbz ldz
ebgwvc mzsjvcz ziewuaizfl esunshim hl iusz ldhf lxvcz ldz wzjzw uo h azhs
hnu. Xdzf xzwohsz szousi vm cuiewzlzt, xz xvww dhjz iusz ldhf h ivwwvuf
httvlvufhw qugm mu ldhl ldumz uf xzwohsz xdu hsz hgwz lu xusk chf xusk.

Duxzjzs, hnhvf, xz kfux ldhl vf ubs oszz mucvzla, esvjhlz gbmvfzmm vm mlvww
ldz gzml mubscz uo fzx qugm. Ldzszousz, V xvww esueumz h fzx esunshi lu
zfcubshnz gbmvfzmmzm lu dvsz aubfn hft tvmhtjhflhnzt Hizsvchfm. Ldzmz aubfn
ezuewz ufwa fzzt mkvwwm hft h cdhfcz vf ustzs lu lhkz ldzvs ewhcz vf ubs
zcufuivc mamlzi. Wzl'm nvjz ldzi ldz cdhfcz ldza fzzt. H ihqus mlze vf ldz
svndl tvszclvuf xubwt gz ldz zhswa ehmmhnz uo h nszhlwa viesujzt
Dbiedsza-Dhxkvfm gvww.

Ia gbtnzl ous 1979 httszmmzm ldzmz fhlvufhw fzztm, gbl vl vm wzhf hft
lvndl. V dhjz cbl xhmlz xdzszjzs eummvgwz.

V hi esueumvfn hf vfcszhmz uo wzmm ldhf 2 ezsczfl holzs htqbmlvfn ous
vfowhlvuf, ldz mihwwzml vfcszhmz vf ldz Oztzshw gbtnzl vf 4 azhsm.

Whlzwa, Oztzshw mezftvfn dhm lhkzf h mlzhtvwa vfcszhmvfn euslvuf uo xdhl
Hizsvchfm esutbcz. Ubs fzx gbtnzl szjzsmzm ldhl lszft, hft whlzs V duez lu
gsvfn ldz Nujzsfizfl'm luww tuxf zjzf obsldzs. Hft xvld aubs dzwe, xz'ww tu
ldhl.

Vf lviz uo dvnd ziewuaizfl hft h mlsufn zcufuia, tzovcvl mezftvfn mdubwt
ful gz h ozhlbsz uo ubs gbtnzl. Hm ldz zcufuia cuflvfbzm lu nhvf mlszfnld
hft hm ubs bfziewuaizfl shlzm cuflvfbz lu ohww, szjzfbzm xvww nsux. Xvld
chszobw ewhffvfn, zoovcvzfl ihfhnzizfl, hft esuezs szmlshvfl uf mezftvfn,
xz chf iujz shevtwa luxhst h ghwhfczt gbtnzl, hft xz xvww.

Fzpl azhs ldz gbtnzl tzovcvl xvww gz ufwa mwvndlwa wzmm ldhf ldvm azhs. Gbl
ufz-ldvst uo ldz tzovcvl vm tbz lu ldz fzczmmhsa lhp cblm ldhl V'jz
esueumzt. Ldvm azhs ldz svndl cduvcz vm lu sztbcz ldz gbstzf uf lhpehazsm
hft esujvtz iusz qugm ous ubs ezuewz.

Ldz ldvst zwzizfl vf ubs esunshi vm h szfzxzt hllhck uf vfowhlvuf. Xz'jz
wzhsfzt ldz dhst xha ldhl dvnd bfziewuaizfl xvww ful eszjzfl us cbsz
vfowhlvuf. Nujzsfizfl chf dzwe bm ga mlvibwhlvfn esvjhlz vfjzmlizfl hft ga
ihvflhvfvfn h szmeufmvgwz zcufuivc euwvca. Ldsubnd h fzx lue-wzjzw szjvzx
esuczmm, xz xvww tu h gzllzs qug uo sztbcvfn Nujzsfizfl sznbwhlvuf ldhl
tsvjzm be cumlm hft tsvjzm be esvczm.

Gbl hnhvf, Nujzsfizfl hwufz chfful gsvfn tuxf ldz shlz uo vfowhlvuf. Xdzf h
wzjzw uo dvnd vfowhlvuf vm zpezclzt lu cuflvfbz, ldzf cuiehfvzm shvmz
esvczm lu esulzcl ldzvs esuovl ihsnvfm hnhvfml esumezclvjz vfcszhmzm vf
xhnzm hft uldzs cumlm, xdvwz xuskzsm tzihft dvndzs xhnzm hm esulzclvuf
hnhvfml zpezclzt esvcz vfcszhmzm. Vl'm wvkz hf zmchwhlvuf vf ldz hsim shcz,
hft bftzsmlhfthgwa, fu ufz xhflm lu tvmhsi hwufz.

Fux, fu ufz ovsi us h nsube uo xuskzsm chf dhwl ldvm esuczmm. Vl'm hf
zoousl ldhl xz ibml hww ihkz lunzldzs. V'i ldzszousz hmkvfn nujzsfizfl,
gbmvfzmm, whgus, hft uldzs nsubem lu quvf vf h juwbflhsa esunshi lu
iutzshlz vfowhlvuf ga duwtvfn xhnz hft esvcz vfcszhmzm vf zhcd mzclus uo
ldz zcufuia tbsvfn 1978 gzwux ldz hjzshnz vfcszhmzm uo ldz whml 2 azhsm.

V tu ful gzwvzjz vf xhnz hft esvcz cuflsuwm. H mvfczsz cuiivlizfl lu
juwbflhsa cufmlshvfl esujvtzm h xha, ezsdhem ldz ufwa xha, lu ovndl
vfowhlvuf xvldubl Nujzsfizfl vflzsozszfcz.

Hm V chiz vflu ldz Chevluw lufvndl, V mhx ldz ohsizsm, ia ozwwux ohsizsm,
mlhftvfn ubl vf ldz mfux. V'i ohivwvhs xvld ldzvs esugwzi, hft V kfux osui
Cufnszmm' hclvuf ldhl aub hsz luu. Xdzf V xhm sbffvfn Chslzsm Xhszdubmz, xz
dht meszht uf ubs uxf ohsim 5-10-15 ozslvwvyzs ous hgubl $40 h luf. Ldz
whml lviz V xhm duiz, ldz esvcz xhm hgubl $100 h luf. Ldz cuml uo fvlsunzf
dhm nufz be 150 ezsczfl, hft ldz esvcz uo esutbclm ldhl ohsizsm mzww dhm
zvldzs mlhazt ldz mhiz us nufz tuxf h wvllwz.

Fux, ldvm ehml azhs vf 1977, aub, ldz Cufnszmm, hft V lunzldzs ehmmzt h fzx
hnsvcbwlbshw hcl. Vl xzfl vflu zoozcl Uclugzs 1. Vl'ww dhjz vlm ovsml
viehcl uf ldz 1978 csuem. Vl xvww dzwe h nszhl tzhw. Vl'ww htt $6 1/2
gvwwvuf us iusz lu dzwe ldz ohsizsm xvld ldzvs esvcz mbeeuslm hft lhsnzl
esvczm.

Whml azhs xz dht ldz dvndzml wzjzw uo zpeuslm uo ohsi esutbclm vf ldz
dvmlusa uo ubs cubflsa, $24 gvwwvuf. Xz zpezcl lu dhjz iusz ldvm azhs.
Xz'ww gz xuskvfn lunzldzs. Gbl V ldvfk vl'm vfcbigzfl uf bm lu iufvlus jzsa
chszobwwa ldz ohsi mvlbhlvuf hft cuflvfbz lu xusk dhsiufvubmwa xvld ldz
ohsizsm uo ubs cubflsa. Xdhl'm gzml ous ldz ohsizsm, ldz ohsi ohivwvzm, vf
ldz wufn sbf vm hwmu gzml ous ldz cufmbizsm uo ubs cubflsa.

Zcufuivc mbcczmm hl duiz vm hwmu ldz kza lu mbcczmm vf ubs vflzsfhlvufhw
zcufuivc euwvca. Hf zoozclvjz zfzsna esunshi, mlsufn vfjzmlizfl hft
esutbclvjvla, hft cuflsuwwzt vfowhlvuf xvww esujvtz [viesujz] ubs lshtz
ghwhfcz hft ghwhfcz vl, hft vl xvww dzwe lu esulzcl ldz vflznsvla uo ldz
tuwwhs ujzsmzhm.

Ga xuskvfn cwumzwa xvld ubs osvzftm hgsuht, xz chf esuiulz ldz zcufuivc
dzhwld uo ldz xduwz xuswt, xvld ohvs hft ghwhfczt hnszzizflm wuxzsvfn ldz
ghssvzsm lu lshtz.

Tzmevlz ldz vfzjvlhgwz eszmmbszm ldhl gbvwt be xdzf ldz xuswt zcufuia
mboozsm osui dvnd bfziewuaizfl, xz ibml ovsiwa szmvml ldz tzihftm ous
mzwo-tzozhlvfn esulzclvufvmi. Gbl oszz lshtz ibml hwmu gz ohvs lshtz. Hft V
hi tzlzsivfzt lu esulzcl Hizsvchf vftbmlsa hft Hizsvchf xuskzsm hnhvfml
ouszvnf lshtz eshclvczm xdvcd hsz bfohvs us vwwznhw.

Vf h mzehshlz xsvllzf izmmhnz lu Cufnszmm, V'jz ublwvfzt uldzs tuizmlvc
vfvlvhlvjzm, mbcd hm xzwohsz szousi, cufmbizs esulzclvuf, ghmvc ztbchlvuf
mkvwwm, bsghf euwvca, szousi uo ubs whgus whxm, hft fhlvufhw dzhwld chsz
whlzs uf ldvm azhs. V xvww ful szezhl ldzmz lufvndl. Gbl ldzsz hsz mzjzshw
uldzs euvflm ldhl V xubwt wvkz lu ihkz tvszclwa lu aub.

Tbsvfn ldzmz ehml azhsm, Hizsvchfm dhjz mzzf ubs Nujzsfizfl nsux ohs osui
bm.

Ous muiz cvlvyzfm, ldz Nujzsfizfl dhm hwiuml gzcuiz wvkz h ouszvnf cubflsa,
mu mlshfnz hft tvmlhfl ldhl xz'jz uolzf dht lu tzhw xvld vl ldsubnd lshvfzt
highmmhtusm xdu dhjz muizlvizm gzcuiz luu euxzsobw hft luu vfowbzflvhw,
whxazsm, hccubflhflm, hft wuggavmlm. Ldvm chfful nu uf.

Xz ibml dhjz xdhl Hgshdhi Wvfcuwf xhflzt, h nujzsfizfl ous ldz ezuewz.

Xz'jz ihtz esunszmm luxhst ldhl kvft uo nujzsfizfl. Aub'jz nvjzf iz ldz
hbldusvla V szrbzmlzt lu szusnhfvyz ldz Oztzshw gbszhbcshca. Hft V hi bmvfn
ldhl hbldusvla.

Xz'jz hwszhta gznbf h mzsvzm uo szusnhfvyhlvuf ewhfm xdvcd xvww gz
cuiewzlzt ujzs h ezsvut uo 3 azhsm. Xz dhjz hwmu esueumzt hguwvmdvfn hwiuml
500 Oztzshw htjvmusa hft uldzs cuiivmmvufm hft guhstm. Gbl V kfux ldhl ldz
Hizsvchf ezuewz hsz mlvww mvck hft lvszt uo Oztzshw ehezsxusk hft sztlhez.
Gvl ga gvl xz hsz cdueevfn tuxf ldz ldvckzl uo bffzczmmhsa Oztzshw
sznbwhlvufm ga xdvcd Nujzsfizfl luu uolzf vflzsozszm vf ubs ezsmufhw wvjzm
hft ubs ezsmufhw gbmvfzmm. Xz'jz cbl ldz ebgwvc'm Oztzshw ehezsxusk wuht ga
iusz ldhf 12 ezsczfl vf wzmm ldhf h azhs. Hft xz hsz ful ldsubnd cbllvfn.

Xz'jz ihtz h nuut mlhsl uf lbsfvfn ldz nuggwztanuuk uo Oztzshw sznbwhlvufm
vflu ewhvf Zfnwvmd ldhl ezuewz chf bftzsmlhft. Gbl xz kfux ldhl xz mlvww
dhjz h wufn xha lu nu.

Xz'jz gsubndl lunzldzs ehslm uo 11 Nujzsfizfl hnzfcvzm lu cszhlz h fzx
Tzehslizfl uo Zfzsna. Hft fux vl'm lviz lu lhkz hfuldzs ihqus mlze ga
cszhlvfn h mzehshlz Tzehslizfl uo Ztbchlvuf.

Gbl zjzf ldz gzml usnhfvyzt Nujzsfizfl xvww ufwa gz hm zoozclvjz hm ldz
ezuewz xdu chssa ubl vlm euwvcvzm. Ous ldvm szhmuf, V cufmvtzs cvjvw
mzsjvcz szousi lu gz hgmuwblzwa jvlhw. Xuskzt ubl xvld ldz cvjvw mzsjhflm
ldzimzwjzm, ldvm szusnhfvyhlvuf ewhf xvww szmlusz ldz izsvl esvfcvewz lu h
mamlzi xdvcd dhm nsuxf vflu h gbszhbcshlvc ihyz. Vl xvww esujvtz nszhlzs
ihfhnzizfl owzpvgvwvla hft gzllzs szxhstm ous gzllzs ezsousihfcz xvldubl
cuiesuivmvfn qug mzcbsvla.

Ldzf hft ufwa ldzf chf xz dhjz h nujzsfizfl ldhl vm zoovcvzfl, uezf, hft
lsbwa xuslda uo ubs ezuewz'm bftzsmlhftvfn hft szmezcl. V dhjz esuivmzt
ldhl xz xvww dhjz mbcd h nujzsfizfl, hft V vflzft lu kzze ldhl esuivmz.

Vf ubs ouszvnf euwvca, ldz mzehshlvuf uo ezuewz osui nujzsfizfl dhm gzzf vf
ldz ehml h mubscz uo xzhkfzmm hft zssus. Vf h tziucshlvc mamlzi wvkz ubsm,
ouszvnf euwvca tzcvmvufm ibml gz hgwz lu mlhft ldz lzml uo ebgwvc
zphivfhlvuf hft ebgwvc tzghlz. Vo xz ihkz h ivmlhkz vf ldvm htivfvmlshlvuf,
vl xvww gz uf ldz mvtz uo oshfkfzmm hft uezffzmm xvld ldz Hizsvchf ezuewz.

Vf ubs iutzsf xuswt, xdzf ldz tzhldm uo wvlzshwwa ivwwvufm uo ezuewz chf
szmbwl osui h ozx lzssvoavfn mzcuftm uo tzmlsbclvuf, ldz ehld uo fhlvufhw
mlszfnld hft mzcbsvla vm vtzflvchw lu ldz ehld uo ezhcz.

Lufvndl, V hi dheea lu szeusl ldhl gzchbmz xz hsz mlsufn, ubs Fhlvuf vm hl
ezhcz xvld ldz xuswt.

Xz hsz h cufovtzfl fhlvuf. Xz'jz szmluszt h iushw ghmvm ous ubs ouszvnf
euwvca. Ldz jzsa dzhsl uo ubs vtzflvla hm h fhlvuf vm ubs ovsi cuiivlizfl
lu dbihf svndlm.

Xz mlhft ous dbihf svndlm gzchbmz xz gzwvzjz ldhl nujzsfizfl dhm hm h
ebseumz lu esuiulz ldz xzww-gzvfn uo vlm cvlvyzfm. Ldvm vm lsbz vf ubs
tuizmlvc euwvca; vl'm hwmu lsbz vf ubs ouszvnf euwvca. Ldz xuswt ibml kfux
ldhl vf mbeeusl uo dbihf svndlm, ldz Bfvlzt Mlhlzm xvww mlhft ovsi.

Xz zpezcl fu rbvck us zhma szmbwlm, gbl ldzsz dhm gzzf mvnfvovchfl iujzizfl
luxhst nszhlzs oszztui hft dbihfvla vf mzjzshw ehslm uo ldz xuswt.

Ldubmhftm uo euwvlvchw esvmufzsm dhjz gzzf oszzt. Ldz wzhtzsm uo ldz xuswt,
zjzf ubs vtzuwunvchw htjzsmhsvzm, fux mzz ldhl ldzvs hllvlbtz luxhst
obfthizflhw dbihf svndlm hoozclm ldzvs mlhftvfn vf ldz vflzsfhlvufhw
cuiibfvla, hft vl hoozclm ldzvs szwhlvufm xvld ldz Bfvlzt Mlhlzm.

Lu mzsjz ldz vflzszmlm uo zjzsa Hizsvchf, ubs ouszvnf euwvca dhm ldszz
ihqus nuhwm.

Ldz ovsml hft esviz cufczsf vm hft xvww szihvf ldz mzcbsvla uo ubs
cubflsa.

Mzcbsvla vm ghmzt uf ubs fhlvufhw xvww, hft mzcbsvla vm ghmzt uf ldz
mlszfnld uo ubs Hsizt Ousczm. Xz dhjz ldz xvww, hft ivwvlhsvwa xz hsz jzsa
mlsufn.

Mzcbsvla hwmu cuizm ldsubnd ldz mlszfnld uo ubs hwwvhfczm. Xz dhjz
szcufovsizt ubs cuiivlizfl lu ldz tzozfmz uo Zbsuez, hft ldvm azhs xz xvww
tziufmlshlz ldhl cuiivlizfl ga obsldzs iutzsfvyvfn hft mlszfnldzfvfn ubs
ivwvlhsa chehgvwvlvzm ldzsz.

Mzcbsvla chf hwmu gz zfdhfczt ga hnszzizflm xvld eulzflvhw htjzsmhsvzm
xdvcd sztbcz ldz ldszhl uo fbcwzhs tvmhmlzs xdvwz ihvflhvfvfn ubs uxf
szwhlvjz mlshlznvc chehgvwvla.

Vf hszhm uo ezhczobw cuiezlvlvuf xvld ldz Mujvzl Bfvuf, xz xvww cuflvfbz lu
iusz ldhf duwt ubs uxf.

Hl ldz mhiz lviz, xz hsz fznulvhlvfn xvld rbvzl cufovtzfcz, xvldubl dhmlz,
xvld chszobw tzlzsivfhlvuf, lu zhmz ldz lzfmvufm gzlxzzf bm hft lu zfmbsz
nszhlzs mlhgvwvla hft mzcbsvla.

Ldz mlshlznvc hsim wvivlhlvuf lhwkm dhjz gzzf wufn hft tvoovcbwl. Xz xhfl h
iblbhw wvivl uf guld ldz rbhwvla hft ldz rbhflvla uo ldz nvhfl fbcwzhs
hsmzfhwm uo guld fhlvufm, hft ldzf xz xhfl hclbhw sztbclvufm vf mlshlznvc
hsim hm h ihqus mlze luxhst ldz bwlvihlz zwvivfhlvuf uo fbcwzhs xzheufm
osui ldz ohcz uo ldz Zhsld.

Vo ldzmz lhwkm szmbwl vf hf hnszzizfl ldvm azhs, hft V lsbml ldza xvww, V
ewztnz lu aub ldhl ldz hnszzizfl xvww ihvflhvf hft zfdhfcz ldz mlhgvwvla uo
ldz xuswt'm mlshlznvc ghwhfcz hft ldz mzcbsvla uo ldz Bfvlzt Mlhlzm.

Ous 30 azhsm, cufczslzt gbl bfmbcczmmobw zoouslm dhjz gzzf ihtz lu ghf ldz
lzmlvfn uo hluivc zpewumvjzm, guld ivwvlhsa xzheufm hft ezhczobw fbcwzhs
tzjvczm.

Xz hsz dhst hl xusk xvld Nszhl Gsvlhvf hft ldz Mujvzl Bfvuf uf hf hnszzizfl
xdvcd xvww mlue lzmlvfn hft xvww esulzcl ubs fhlvufhw mzcbsvla hft esujvtz
ous htzrbhlz jzsvovchlvuf uo cuiewvhfcz. Xz hsz fux ihkvfn, V gzwvzjz, nuut
esunszmm luxhst ldvm cuieszdzfmvjz ghf uf fbcwzhs zpewumvufm.

Xz hsz hwmu xuskvfn jvnusubmwa lu dhwl ldz esuwvozshlvuf uo fbcwzhs xzheufm
hiufn ldz fhlvufm uo ldz xuswt xdvcd tu ful fux dhjz ldzi hft lu sztbcz ldz
tzhtwa nwughw lshoovc vf cufjzflvufhw hsim mhwzm. Ubs mlhft ous ezhcz vm
mbmezcl vo xz hsz hwmu ldz esvfcvehw hsim izscdhfl uo ldz xuswt. Mu, xz'jz
tzcvtzt lu cbl tuxf ubs hsim lshfmozsm hgsuht uf h azhs-ga-azhs ghmvm hft
lu xusk xvld uldzs ihqus hsim zpeuslzsm lu zfcubshnz ldzvs mvivwhs
cufmlshvfl.

Zjzsa Hizsvchf dhm h mlhkz vf ubs mzcuft ihqus nuhw, h xuswt hl ezhcz. Vf h
fbcwzhs hnz, zhcd uo bm vm ldszhlzfzt xdzf ezhcz vm ful mzcbszt zjzsaxdzsz.
Xz hsz lsavfn lu esuiulz dhsiufa vf ldumz ehslm uo ldz xuswt xdzsz ihqus
tvoozszfczm zpvml hiufn uldzs fhlvufm hft ldszhlzf vflzsfhlvufhw ezhcz.

Vf ldz Ivttwz Zhml, xz hsz cuflsvgblvfn ubs nuut uoovczm lu ihvflhvf ldz
iuizflbi uo ldz cbsszfl fznulvhlvufm hft lu kzze uezf ldz wvfzm uo
cuiibfvchlvuf hiufn ldz Ivttwz Zhmlzsf wzhtzsm. Ldz xduwz xuswt dhm h nszhl
mlhkz vf ldz mbcczmm uo ldzmz zoouslm. Ldvm vm h eszcvubm ueeuslbfvla ous h
dvmlusvc mzllwzizfl uo h wufnmlhftvfn cufowvcl, hf ueeuslbfvla xdvcd iha
fzjzs cuiz hnhvf vf ubs wvozlviz.

Ubs suwz dhm gzzf tvoovcbwl hft muizlvizm ldhfkwzmm hft cuflsujzsmvhw. Gbl
vl dhm gzzf cufmlsbclvjz hft vl dhm gzzf fzczmmhsa, hft vl xvww cuflvfbz.

Ubs ldvst ihqus ouszvnf euwvca nuhw vm ufz ldhl lubcdzm ldz wvoz uo zjzsa
Hizsvchf cvlvyzf zjzsa tha, xuswt zcufuivc nsuxld hft mlhgvwvla.

Ldvm szrbvszm mlsufn zcufuivc ezsousihfcz ga ldz vftbmlsvhwvyzt tziucshcvzm
wvkz ubsmzwjzm hft esunszmm vf szmuwjvfn ldz nwughw zfzsna csvmvm. Whml
ohww, xvld ldz dzwe uo uldzsm, xz mbcczztzt vf ubs jvnusubm zoouslm lu
ihvflhvf ldz mlhgvwvla uo ldz esvcz uo uvw. Gbl hm ihfa ouszvnf wzhtzsm
dhjz ziedhmvyzt lu iz ezsmufhwwa hft, V hi mbsz, lu aub, ldz nszhlzml
oblbsz cuflsvgblvuf ldhl Hizsvch chf ihkz lu ldz xuswt zcufuia xubwt gz hf
zoozclvjz zfzsna cufmzsjhlvuf esunshi dzsz hl duiz. Xz xvww ful dzmvlhlz lu
lhkz ldz hclvufm fzztzt lu esulzcl ldz vflznsvla uo ldz Hizsvchf tuwwhs.

Xz hsz lsavfn lu tzjzwue h iusz qbml vflzsfhlvufhw mamlzi. Hft vf ldvm
mevsvl, xz hsz mbeeuslvfn ldz mlsbnnwz ous dbihf tzjzwueizfl vf Hosvch, vf
Hmvh, hft vf Whlvf Hizsvch.

Ovfhwwa, ldz xuswt vm xhlcdvfn lu mzz dux xz hcl uf ufz uo ubs iuml
vieuslhfl hft cuflsujzsmvhw vlzim uo gbmvfzmm, heesujhw uo ldz Ehfhih Chfhw
lszhlvzm. Ldz lszhlvzm fux gzousz ldz Mzfhlz hsz ldz szmbwl uo ldz xusk uo
oubs htivfvmlshlvufm, lxu Tziucshlvc, lxu Szebgwvchf.

Ldza nbhshflzz ldhl ldz chfhw xvww gz uezf hwxham ous bfszmlsvclzt bmz ga
ldz mdvem uo ldz xuswt. Ubs mdvem dhjz ldz svndl lu nu lu ldz dzht uo ldz
wvfz ous esvusvla uo ehmmhnz vf lvizm uo zizsnzfca us fzzt. Xz szlhvf ldz
ezsihfzfl svndl lu tzozft ldz chfhw xvld ubs uxf ivwvlhsa ousczm, vo
fzczmmhsa, lu nbhshflzz vlm uezffzmm hft vlm fzblshwvla.

Ldz lszhlvzm hsz lu ldz cwzhs htjhflhnz uo ubsmzwjzm, ldz Ehfhihfvhfm, hft
ldz uldzs bmzsm uo ldz chfhw. Shlvoavfn ldz Ehfhih Chfhw lszhlvzm xvww
tziufmlshlz ubs nuut ohvld lu ldz xuswt, tvmcubshnz ldz meszht uo dumlvwz
vtzuwunvzm vf ldvm dzivmedzsz, hft tvszclwa cuflsvgblz lu ldz zcufuivc
xzww-gzvfn hft ldz mzcbsvla uo ldz Bfvlzt Mlhlzm.

V dhjz lu mha ldhl ldhl'm jzsa xzwcuiz heewhbmz.

Ldzsz xzsz lxu iuizflm uf ia szczfl qubsfza xdvcd, ous iz, cufovsizt ldz
ovfhw hvim uo ubs ouszvnf euwvca hft xdhl vl hwxham ibml gz.

Ufz xhm vf h wvllwz jvwwhnz vf Vftvh, xdzsz V izl h ezuewz hm ehmmvufhlzwa
hllhcdzt lu ldzvs svndlm hft wvgzslvzm hm xz hsz, gbl xdumz cdvwtszf dhjz h
ohs mihwwzs cdhfcz ous nuut dzhwld us ouut us ztbchlvuf us dbihf
obwovwwizfl ldhf h cdvwt gusf vf ldvm cubflsa.

Ldz uldzs iuizfl xhm vf Xhsmhx, chevlhw uo h fhlvuf lxvcz tzjhmlhlzt ga xhs
vf ldvm czflbsa. Ldzsz, ezuewz dhjz szgbvwl ldz cvla xdvcd xhs'm
tzmlsbclvuf luuk osui ldzi. Gbl xdhl xhm fzx ufwa ziedhmvyzt cwzhswa xdhl
xhm wuml.

Xdhl V mhx vf ldumz lxu ewhczm csamlhwvyzt ous iz ldz ebseumzm uo ubs uxf
Fhlvuf'm euwvca: lu zfmbsz zcufuivc qbmlvcz, lu htjhfcz dbihf svndlm, lu
szmuwjz cufowvclm xvldubl jvuwzfcz, hft lu esucwhvi vf ubs nszhl tziucshca
ubs cufmlhfl ohvld vf ldz wvgzsla hft tvnfvla uo dbihf gzvfnm zjzsaxdzsz.

Xz Hizsvchfm dhjz h nszhl tzhw uo xusk lu tu lunzldzs. Vf ldz zft, dux xzww
xz tu ldhl xusk xvww tzezft uf ldz mevsvl vf xdvcd xz heesuhcd vl. Xz ibml
mzzk oszmd hfmxzsm, bfdvftzszt ga ldz mlhwz eszmcsvelvufm uo ldz ehml.

Vl dhm gzzf mhvt ldhl ubs gzml azhsm hsz gzdvft bm. Gbl V mha hnhvf ldhl
Hizsvch'm gzml vm mlvww hdzht. Xz dhjz zizsnzt osui gvllzs zpezsvzfczm
cdhmlzfzt gbl esubt, cufovtzfl ufcz hnhvf, szhta lu ohcz cdhwwzfnzm ufcz
hnhvf, hft bfvlzt ufcz hnhvf.

Xz cuiz lunzldzs lufvndl hl h muwzif lviz. Whml xzzk ldz Mzfhlz wuml h nuut
hft dufzml ihf, Wzz Izlchwo uo Iuflhfh.

Hft lutha, ldz owhn uo ldz Bfvlzt Mlhlzm owzx hl dhwo-ihml osui ldvm
Chevluw hft osui Hizsvchf vfmlhwwhlvufm hft mdvem hww ujzs ldz xuswt, vf
iubsfvfn ous Mzfhlus Dbgzsl Dbiedsza.

Gzchbmz dz zpziewvovzt mu xzww ldz qua hft ldz yzml uo wvjvfn, dvm tzhld
szivftm bm ful mu ibcd uo ubs uxf iuslhwvla, gbl uo ldz eummvgvwvlvzm
uoozszt lu bm ga wvoz. Dz hwxham wuukzt lu ldz oblbsz xvld h mezcvhw
Hizsvchf kvft uo cufovtzfcz, uo duez hft zfldbmvhmi. Hft ldz gzml xha ldhl
xz chf dufus dvi vm ga ouwwuxvfn dvm zphiewz.

Ubs lhmk, lu bmz ldz xustm uo Mzfhlus Dbiedsza, vm "szcufcvwvhlvuf,
szgbvwtvfn, hft szgvsld."

Szcufcvwvhlvuf uo esvjhlz fzztm hft vflzszmlm vflu h dvndzs ebseumz.

Szgbvwtvfn ldz uwt tszhim uo qbmlvcz hft wvgzsla, hft cubflsa hft
cuiibfvla.

Szgvsld uo ubs ohvld vf ldz cuiiuf nuut.

Zhcd uo bm dzsz lufvndl, hft hww xdu hsz wvmlzfvfn vf aubs duizm, ibml
sztztvchlz ubsmzwjzm lu mzsjvfn ldz cuiiuf nuut. Xz hsz h cuiibfvla, h
gzwujzt cuiibfvla, hww uo bm. Ubs vftvjvtbhw ohlzm hsz wvfkzt, ubs oblbszm
vflzslxvfzt. Hft vo xz hcl vf ldhl kfuxwztnz hft vf ldhl mevsvl, lunzldzs,
hm ldz Gvgwz mham, xz chf iujz iubflhvfm.

Ldhfk aub jzsa ibcd.