Kqtxsdk X avtk kq onvwxto xt v hrqvj eoteo kdo ekvko qg qmr Vworxivt
Mtxqt--dqa ao vro hmxljxts v toa gqmtjvkxqt gqr v uoviogml vtj v urqeuorqme
aqrlj.

Qmr idxljrot adq axll ho hqrt kdxe fovr axll iqwo qg vso xt kdo 21ek
iotkmrf. Advk pxtj qg eqixokf, advk pxtj qg aqrlj vro ao hmxljxts gqr kdow?
Axll ao qmreolboe ho vk uovio? Axll qmr idxljrot otzqf v hokkor ymvlxkf qg
lxgo? Axll v ekrqts vtj mtxkoj Vworxiv ekxll ho v gqrio gqr groojqw vtj
urqeuorxkf vrqmtj kdo aqrlj?

Kqtxsdk, kdoro xe oborf exst kdvk kdo ekvko qg qmr Mtxqt xe eqmtj.

Qmr oiqtqwf qggore srovkor urqeuorxkf gqr wqro qg qmr uoqulo kdvt obor
hogqro. Rovl uor ivuxkv xtiqwo vtj rovl hmextoee urqgxke dvbo rxeot
emhekvtkxvllf xt kdo lvek 2 fovre. Gvrw onuqrke vro eokkxts vt vll-kxwo
roiqrj ovid fovr, vtj gvrw xtiqwo lvek fovr, tok gvrw xtiqwo, ave mu wqro
kdvt 25 uoriotk.

Qmr lxhorkxoe vro eoimro. Qmr wxlxkvrf jogoteoe vro ekrqts vtj srqaxts
ekrqtsor. Vtj wqro xwuqrkvtklf, kqtxsdk, Vworxiv--qmr holqboj iqmtkrf--xe
vk uovio.

Qmr ovrlxoek tvkxqtvl iqwwxkwotke, wqjxgxoj vtj roedvuoj hf emiioojxts
sotorvkxqte, dvbo eorboj me aoll. Hmk kdo urqhlowe kdvk ao gvio kqjvf vro
jxggorotk grqw kdqeo kdvk iqtgrqtkoj ovrlxor sotorvkxqte qg Vworxivte. Kdof
vro wqro emhklo, wqro iqwulon, vtj wqro xtkorrolvkoj. Vk dqwo, ao vro
roiqstxcxts obor wqro ilovrlf kdvk sqbortwotk vlqto ivttqk eqlbo kdoeo
urqhlowe. Vtj vhrqvj, goa qg kdow ivt ho eqlboj hf kdo Mtxkoj Ekvkoe vlqto.
Hmk Vworxivte ve v mtxkoj uoqulo, aqrpxts axkd qmr vllxoe vtj grxotje, dvbo
tobor hoot vgrvxj kq gvio urqhlowe vtj kq eqlbo urqhlowe, oxkdor doro qr
vhrqvj.

Kdo idvllotso kq me xe kq hmxlj v toa vtj gxrwor gqmtjvkxqt gqr kdo
gmkmro--gqr v eqmtj oiqtqwf, gqr v wqro oggoikxbo sqbortwotk, gqr wqro
uqlxkxivl krmek, vtj gqr v ekvhlo uovio--eq kdvk kdo Vworxiv qmr idxljrot
xtdorxk axll ho obot ekrqtsor vtj obot hokkor kdvt xk xe kqjvf.

Ao ivttqk roeqrk kq exwulxekxi qr onkrowo eqlmkxqte adxid emhekxkmko wfkde
gqr iqwwqt eoteo.

Xt qmr oiqtqwf, xk xe v wfkd kdvk ao wmek idqqeo otjloeelf hokaoot
xtglvkxqt vtj roioeexqt. Kqsokdor, ao hmxlj kdo gqmtjvkxqt gqr v ekrqts
oiqtqwf, axkd lqaor xtglvkxqt, axkdqmk iqtkrxbxts oxkdor v roioeexqt axkd
xke dxsd mtowulqfwotk qr mtaqrpvhlo, wvtjvkqrf sqbortwotk iqtkrqle.

Xt qmr sqbortwotk, xk xe v wfkd kdvk ao wmek idqqeo hokaoot iqwuveexqt vtj
iqwuokotio. Kqsokdor, ao hmxlj kdo gqmtjvkxqt gqr v sqbortwotk kdvk aqrpe,
vtj aqrpe gqr uoqulo.

Xt qmr rolvkxqte axkd qmr uqkotkxvl vjborevrxoe, xk xe v wfkd kdvk ao wmek
idqqeo hokaoot iqtgrqtkvkxqt vtj ivuxkmlvkxqt. Kqsokdor, ao hmxlj kdo
gqmtjvkxqt gqr v ekvhlo aqrlj qg hqkd jxborexkf vtj uovio.

Kqsokdor, ao'bo vlrovjf hosmt kq hmxlj kdo gqmtjvkxqt gqr iqtgxjotio xt qmr
oiqtqwxi efekow. Jmrxts kdo lvek 2 fovre, xt hrxtsxts qmr oiqtqwf qmk qg
kdo joouoek roioeexqt extio kdo 1930'e, ao'bo irovkoj 7,100,000 toa zqhe.
Kdo mtowulqfwotk rvko dve sqto jqat 25 uoriotk. Vtj tqa ao wmek rojqmhlo
qmr gxsdk vsvxtek kdo uorexekotk xtglvkxqt kdvk dve arvipoj qmr iqmtkrf gqr
wqro kdvt v joivjo. Kdvk'e qmr xwuqrkvtk jqwoekxi xeemo, vtj ao wmek jq xk
kqsokdor.

Ao ptqa kdvk xtglvkxqt xe v hmrjot gqr vll Vworxivte, hmk xk'e v jxevekor
gqr kdo uqqr, kdo exip, vtj kdo qlj. Tq Vworxivt gvwxlf edqmlj ho gqrioj kq
idqqeo vwqts gqqj, avrwkd, dovlkd ivro, qr joiotk dqmexts hoivmeo kdo iqek
qg vtf qg kdoeo hvexi toioeexkxoe dve ilxwhoj qmk qg rovid.

Kdroo wqtkde vsq, X qmklxtoj kq kdo Tvkxqt v hvlvtioj vtkx-xtglvkxqt
urqsrvw kdvk iqmuloe roeuqtexhlo sqbortwotk roekrvxtk axkd roeuqtexhlo avso
vtj urxio roekrvxtk. Xk'e hveoj muqt wf ptqalojso kdvk kdoro xe v wqro
uqaorgml gqrio kdvt sqbortwotk iqwumlexqt--kdo gqrio irovkoj hf kdo
iqquorvkxbo oggqrke qg wxllxqte qg Vworxivte aqrpxts kqavrj v iqwwqt sqvl.

Hmextoee vtj lvhqr dvbo hoot xtirovextslf emuuqrkxbo. Xk'e xwuorvkxbo kdvk
ao xt sqbortwotk jq qmr uvrk. Ao wmek ekqu onioeexbo sqbortwotk srqakd, vtj
ao wmek iqtkrql sqbortwotk euotjxts dvhxke.

X'bo eotk kq kdxe Iqtsroee v ekrxtsotk hmk v gvxr hmjsok, qto kdvk, extio X
rvt gqr Uroexjotk xt 1976, axll dvbo imk kdo Gojorvl jogxixk xt dvlg. Vtj
ve v uoriotkvso qg qmr srqee tvkxqtvl urqjmik, kdo jogxixk axll dvbo
jrquuoj hf vlwqek 75 uoriotk.

Kdxe Iqtsroee dvj v sqqj roiqrj lvek fovr, vtj X tqa vep kdo 96kd Iqtsroee
kq iqtkxtmo kdxe uvrktoredxu xt dqljxts kdo lxto qt onioee Gojorvl
euotjxts. Xk axll tqk ho ovef. Hmk ao wmek ho ekrqts, vtj ao wmek ho
uorexekotk.

Kdxe hmjsok xe v ilovr woeevso kdvk, axkd kdo dolu qg fqm vtj kdo Vworxivt
uoqulo, X vw jokorwxtoj, ve Uroexjotk, kq hrxts xtglvkxqt mtjor iqtkrql.

Kdo 1980 hmjsok urqbxjoe otqmsd euotjxts roekrvxtk kq hosxt mtaxtjxts
xtglvkxqt, hmk otqmsd emuuqrk gqr qmr iqmtkrf kq poou Vworxivt aqrpore
urqjmikxbo vtj kq otiqmrvso kdo xtboekwotke kdvk urqbxjo toa zqhe. Ao axll
iqtkxtmo kq wqhxlxco qmr Tvkxqt'e roeqmrioe kq rojmio qmr krvjo jogxixk
emhekvtkxvllf kdxe fovr vtj kq wvxtkvxt kdo ekrotskd qg kdo Vworxivt
jqllvr.

Ao'bo jowqtekrvkoj xt kdxe roekrvxtoj hmjsok kdvk ao ivt hmxlj qt kdo svxte
qg kdo uvek 2 fovre kq urqbxjo vjjxkxqtvl emuuqrk kq ojmivko jxevjbvtkvsoj
idxljrot, kq ivro gqr kdo oljorlf, kq urqbxjo tmkrxkxqt vtj losvl eorbxioe
gqr kdo uqqr, vtj kq ekrotskdot kdo oiqtqwxi hveo qg qmr mrhvt iqwwmtxkxoe
vtj, vleq, qmr rmrvl vrove.

Kdxe fovr, ao axll kvpo qmr gxrek ekoue kq jobolqu v tvkxqtvl dovlkd ulvt.

Ao wmek tobor viiouk v uorwvtotk srqmu qg mtowulqfoj Vworxivte, axkd tq
dquo vtj tq ekvpo xt hmxljxts qmr eqixokf. Gqr kdqeo logk qmk qg kdo
oiqtqwf hoivmeo qg jxeirxwxtvkxqt, v lvip qg epxlle, qr uqborkf, ao wmek
wvxtkvxt dxsd lobole qg krvxtxts, vtj ao wmek iqtkxtmo kq urqbxjo zqhe.

V roeuqtexhlo hmjsok xe tqk qmr qtlf aovuqt kq iqtkrql xtglvkxqt. Ao wmek
vik tqa kq urqkoik vll Vworxivte grqw dovlkd ivro iqeke kdvk vro rxexts $1
wxllxqt uor dqmr, 24 dqmre v jvf, jqmhlxts oborf 5 fovre. Ao wmek kvpo
iqtkrql qg kdo lvrsoek iqtkrxhmkqr kq kdvk xtglvkxqt: epfrqipokxts dqeuxkvl
iqeke.

Kdoro axll ho tq ilovror koek qg kdo iqwwxkwotk qg kdxe Iqtsroee kq kdo
vtkx-xtglvkxqt gxsdk kdvt kdo losxelvkxqt kdvk X axll emhwxk vsvxt kdxe
fovr kq dqlj jqat xtglvkxqt xt dqeuxkvl ivro.

Qbor kdo tonk 5 fovre, wf urquqevle axll evbo Vworxivte v kqkvl qg $60
hxllxqt, qg adxid $25 hxllxqt axll ho evbxtse kq kdo Vworxivt kvnuvfor xt
kdo Gojorvl hmjsok xkeolg. Kdo Vworxivt uoqulo dvbo avxkoj lqts otqmsd.
Kdxe fovr ao wmek vik qt dqeuxkvl iqek iqtkvxtwotk.

Ao wmek vleq gxsdk xtglvkxqt hf xwurqbowotke vtj hokkor otgqriowotk qg qmr
vtkxkrmek lvae vtj hf rojmixts sqbortwotk qhekviloe kq iqwuokxkxqt xt kdo
urxbvko eoikqr.

Ao wmek hosxt kq eirmkxtxco kdo qborvll oggoik qg rosmlvkxqt xt qmr
oiqtqwf. Kdrqmsd jorosmlvkxqt qg kdo vxrlxto xtjmekrf ao'bo xtiroveoj
urqgxke, imk urxioe gqr vll Vworxivte, vtj hosmt--gqr qto qg kdo goa kxwoe
xt kdo dxekqrf qg qmr Tvkxqt--kq vikmvllf jxewvtklo v wvzqr Gojorvl
hmrovmirvif. Kdxe fovr, ao wmek hosxt kdo oggqrk kq rogqrw qmr rosmlvkqrf
urqioeeoe gqr kdo rvxlrqvj, hme, vtj kdo krmipxts xtjmekrxoe.

Vworxiv dve kdo srovkoek oiqtqwxi efekow xt kdo aqrlj. Lok'e rojmio
sqbortwotk xtkorgorotio vtj sxbo xk v idvtio kq aqrp.

X ivll qt Iqtsroee kq kvpo qkdor vtkx-xtglvkxqt vikxqt--kq onuvtj qmr
onuqrke kq urqkoik Vworxivt zqhe kdrovkotoj hf mtgvxr krvjo, kq iqteorbo
otorsf, kq xtiroveo urqjmikxqt vtj kq euooj jobolquwotk qg eqlvr uqaor, vtj
kq roveeoee qmr Tvkxqt'e koidtqlqsxivl emuorxqrxkf. Vworxivt aqrpore adq
otlxek xt kdo gxsdk vsvxtek xtglvkxqt joeorbo tqk zmek qmr srvkxkmjo, hmk
kdof joeorbo kdo urqkoikxqt qg kdo rovl avso xtemrvtio urquqevl kdvk X dvbo
vlrovjf wvjo kq kdo Iqtsroee.

Kq ho emiioeegml, ao wmek idvtso qmr vkkxkmjoe ve aoll ve qmr uqlxixoe. Ao
ivttqk vggqrj kq lxbo hofqtj qmr wovte. Ao ivttqk vggqrj kq irovko urqsrvwe
kdvk ao ivt toxkdor wvtvso tqr gxtvtio, qr kq aveko qmr tvkmrvl roeqmrioe,
vtj ao ivttqk kqlorvko wxewvtvsowotk vtj grvmj. Vhqbo vll, ao wmek wook kdo
idvllotsoe qg xtglvkxqt ve v mtxkoj uoqulo.

Axkd kdo emuuqrk qg kdo Vworxivt uoqulo, sqbortwotk xt roiotk joivjoe dve
doluoj kq jxewvtklo rvixvl hvrrxore, dve urqbxjoj veexekvtio gqr kdo
zqhloee vtj kdo rokxroj, dve goj kdo dmtsrf, dve urqkoikoj kdo evgokf,
dovlkd, vtj hvrsvxtxts rxsdke qg Vworxivt aqrpore, vtj dve doluoj kq
uroeorbo qmr tvkmrvl dorxkvso.

Hmk xk'e tqk otqmsd kq dvbo irovkoj v lqk qg sqbortwotk urqsrvwe. Tqa ao
wmek wvpo kdo sqqj urqsrvwe wqro oggoikxbo vtj xwurqbo qr aooj qmk kdqeo
adxid vro avekogml qr mttoioeevrf.

Axkd kdo emuuqrk qg kdo Iqtsroee, ao'bo hosmt kq roqrsvtxco vtj kq sok
iqtkrql qg kdo hmrovmirvif. Ao vro rogqrwxts kdo ixbxl eorbxio efekow, eq
kdvk ao ivt roiqstxco vtj roavrj kdqeo adq jq v sqqj zqh vtj iqrroik qr
rowqbo kdqeo adq jq tqk.

Kdxe fovr, ao wmek onkotj wvzqr roqrsvtxcvkxqt oggqrke kq ojmivkxqt, kq
oiqtqwxi jobolquwotk, vtj kq kdo wvtvsowotk qg qmr tvkmrvl roeqmrioe. Ao
tooj kq otvik v emtedxto [emteok] lva kdvk adot sqbortwotk urqsrvwe dvbo
qmklxboj kdoxr bvlmo, kdof axll vmkqwvkxivllf ho korwxtvkoj.

Kdoro'e tq emid kdxts ve vt oggoikxbo vtj v tqtiqtkrqborexvl roqrsvtxcvkxqt
vtj rogqrw. Hmk ao ptqa kdvk dqtoek, oggoikxbo sqbortwotk xe oeeotkxvl kq
roekqro umhlxi gvxkd xt qmr umhlxi vikxqt.

Tqto qg me ivt ho evkxegxoj adot kaq-kdxrje qg kdo Vworxivt ixkxcote idqeo
tqk kq bqko lvek fovr xt v tvkxqtvl oloikxqt. Kqq wvtf Vworxivte gool
uqaorloee vsvxtek kdo xtglmotio qg urxbvko lqhhfxts srqmue vtj kdo
mtholxobvhlo glqqj qg urxbvko ivwuvxst wqtof adxid kdrovkote qmr oloikqrvl
urqioee.

Kdxe fovr, ao wmek rosvxt kdo umhlxi'e gvxkd hf roymxrxts lxwxkoj gxtvtixvl
gmtje grqw umhlxi gmtje gqr iqtsroeexqtvl oloikxqt ivwuvxste. Dqmeo hxll 1
urqbxjoe gqr kdxe umhlxi gxtvtixts qg ivwuvxste. Vtj X lqqp gqravrj axkd v
srovk jovl qg vtkxixuvkxqt kq exstxts xk vk vt ovrlf jvko.

V ekrqts oiqtqwf vtj vt oggoikxbo sqbortwotk axll roekqro iqtgxjotio xt
Vworxiv. Hmk kdo uvkd qg kdo gmkmro wmek ho idvrkoj xt uovio. Ao wmek
iqtkxtmo kq hmxlj v toa vtj v gxrw gqmtjvkxqt gqr v ekvhlo aqrlj
iqwwmtxkf.

Ao vro hmxljxts kdvk toa gqmtjvkxqt grqw v uqexkxqt qg tvkxqtvl
ekrotskd--kdo ekrotskd qg qmr qat jogoteoe, kdo ekrotskd qg qmr grxotjedxue
axkd qkdor tvkxqte, vtj qg qmr qljoek Vworxivt xjovle.

Vworxiv'e wxlxkvrf uqaor xe v wvzqr gqrio gqr eoimrxkf vtj ekvhxlxkf xt kdo
aqrlj. Ao wmek wvxtkvxt qmr ekrvkosxi ivuvhxlxkf vtj iqtkxtmo kdo urqsroee
qg kdo lvek 2 fovre axkd qmr TVKQ Vllxoe, axkd adqw ao dvbo xtiroveoj qmr
rovjxtoee, wqjortxcoj qmr oymxuwotk, vtj ekrotskdotoj qmr jogoteo gqrioe xt
Omrquo. X mrso fqm kq emuuqrk kdo ekrqts jogoteo hmjsok adxid X dvbo
urquqeoj kq kdo Iqtsroee.

Hmk qmr tvkxqtvl eoimrxkf xt kdxe iqwulxivkoj vso roymxroe wqro kdvt zmek
wxlxkvrf wxsdk. Xt loee kdvt v lxgokxwo, aqrlj uqumlvkxqt dve wqro kdvt
jqmhloj, iqlqtxvl owuxroe dvbo jxevuuovroj, vtj v dmtjroj toa tvkxqte dvbo
hoot hqrt, vtj wxsrvkxqt kq kdo aqrlj'e ixkxoe dvbo vll vavpotoj toa
fovrtxtse gqr oiqtqwxi zmekxio vtj dmwvt rxsdke vwqts uoqulo oborfadoro.

Kdxe jowvtj gqr zmekxio vtj dmwvt rxsdke xe v avbo qg kdo gmkmro. Xt emid v
aqrlj, kdo idqxio xe tqk adxid emuor uqaor axll jqwxtvko kdo aqrlj. Tqto
ivt vtj tqto axll. Kdo idqxio xtekovj xe hokaoot v aqrlj qg vtvridf vtj
joekrmikxqt, qr v aqrlj qg iqquorvkxqt vtj uovio.

Xt emid v aqrlj, ao eoop tqk kq ekxglo xtobxkvhlo idvtso, hmk kq xtglmotio
xke iqmreo xt dolugml vtj iqtekrmikxbo avfe kdvk otdvtio qmr bvlmoe, qmr
tvkxqtvl xtkoroeke, vtj kdo ivmeo qg uovio.

Kqaorxts qbor kdxe bqlvkxlo, idvtsxts aqrlj, lxpo v kdmtjorilqmj qt v
emwwor jvf, lqqwe kdo vaoeqwo uqaor qg tmilovr aovuqte.

Ao axll iqtkxtmo kq dolu edvuo kdo gqrioe qg idvtso, kq vtkxixuvko oworsxts
urqhlowe qg tmilovr urqlxgorvkxqt vtj iqtbotkxqtvl vrwe evloe, vtj kq meo
qmr srovk ekrotskd uvrke qg kdo aqrlj hogqro kdof ormuk vtj eurovj.

Ao dvbo tq joexro kq ho kdo aqrlj'e uqlxiowvt. Hmk Vworxiv jqoe avtk kq ho
kdo aqrlj'e uoviowvpor.

Ao vro hmxljxts kdo gqmtjvkxqt gqr krmlf slqhvl iqquorvkxqt, tqk qtlf axkd
Aoekort vtj xtjmekrxvlxcoj tvkxqte hmk axkd kdo jobolquxts iqmtkrxoe ve
aoll. Qmr kxoe axkd Zvuvt vtj qmr Omrquovt vllxoe vro ekrqtsor kdvt obor,
vtj eq vro qmr grxotjlf rolvkxqte axkd kdo uoqulo qg Lvkxt Vworxiv, Vgrxiv,
vtj kdo Aoekort Uvixgxi vtj Vexv.

Ao'bo aqt toa roeuoik xt kdxe dowxeudoro axkd kdo Uvtvwv Ivtvl krovkxoe.
Ao'bo svxtoj toa krmek axkd kdo jobolquxts aqrlj kdrqmsd qmr quuqexkxqt kq
rvixew, qmr iqwwxkwotk kq dmwvt rxsdke, vtj qmr emuuqrk gqr wvzqrxkf rmlo
xt Vgrxiv.

Kdo wmlkxlvkorvl krvjo tosqkxvkxqte vro tqa rovidxts v emiioeegml
iqtilmexqt, vtj iqtsroeexqtvl vuurqbvl xe oeeotkxvl kq kdo oiqtqwxi
aoll-hoxts qg qmr qat iqmtkrf vtj qg kdo aqrlj. Kdxe axll ho qto qg qmr kqu
urxqrxkxoe xt 1979.

Ao vro otkorxts v dquogml orv xt qmr rolvkxqte axkd qto-gqmrkd qg kdo
aqrlj'e uoqulo adq lxbo xt Idxtv. Kdo uroeotio qg Bxio Urowxor Jots
Nxvquxts tonk aoop axll dolu kq xtvmsmrvko kdvk toa orv. Vtj axkd urqwuk
iqtsroeexqtvl vikxqt qt vmkdqrxcxts losxelvkxqt, ao axll iqtkxtmo qmr
iqwwxkwotk kq v urqeuorqme, uoviogml, vtj eoimro lxgo gqr kdo uoqulo qg
Kvxavt.

X'w srvkogml kdvk xt kdo uvek fovr, ve xt kdo fovr hogqro, tq Vworxivt dve
jxoj xt iqwhvk vtfadoro xt kdo aqrlj. Vtj xt Xrvt, Txivrvsmv, Ifurme,
Tvwxhxv, vtj Rdqjoexv, qmr iqmtkrf xe aqrpxts gqr uoviogml eqlmkxqte kq
jvtsorqme iqtglxike.

Xt kdo Wxjjlo Ovek, mtjor kdo wqek jxggximlk ixrimwekvtioe, ao dvbo eqmsdk
kq dolu vtixotk otowxoe lvf vexjo joou-eovkoj jxggorotioe kdvk dvbo
urqjmioj gqmr hxkkor avre xt qmr lxgokxwo.

Qmr gxrw iqwwxkwotk kq Xervol'e emrbxbvl vtj eoimrxkf xe rqqkoj xt qmr
joouoek iqtbxikxqte vtj xt qmr ptqalojso qg kdo ekrvkosxi xwuqrkvtio kq qmr
qat Tvkxqt qg v ekvhlo Wxjjlo Ovek. Kq urqwqko uovio vtj roiqtixlxvkxqt xt
kdo rosxqt, ao wmek rokvxt kdo krmek vtj kdo iqtgxjotio hqkd qg Xervol vtj
vleq qg kdo Vrvh tvkxqte kdvk vro extiorolf eovridxts gqr uovio.

X vw jokorwxtoj, ve Uroexjotk, kq meo kdo gmll, hotogxixvl xtglmotio qg qmr
iqmtkrf eq kdvk kdo uroixqme quuqrkmtxkf gqr lvekxts uovio hokaoot Xervol
vtj Osfuk axll tqk ho lqek.

Kdo toa gqmtjvkxqt qg xtkortvkxqtvl iqquorvkxqt kdvk ao eoop onilmjoe tq
tvkxqt. Iqquorvkxqt axkd kdo Eqbxok Mtxqt eorboe kdo ivmeo qg uovio, gqr xt
kdxe tmilovr vso, aqrlj uovio wmek xtilmjo uovio hokaoot kdo emuor
uqaore--vtj xk wmek wovt kdo iqtkrql qg tmilovr vrwe.

Kot fovre vsq, kdo Mtxkoj Ekvkoe vtj kdo Eqbxok Mtxqt wvjo kdo dxekqrxi
joixexqt kq quot kdo ekrvkosxi vrwe lxwxkvkxqte kvlpe, qr EVLK. Kdo umruqeo
qg EVLK, kdot ve tqa, xe tqk kq svxt v mtxlvkorvl vjbvtkvso gqr oxkdor
tvkxqt, hmk kq urqkoik kdo eoimrxkf qg hqkd tvkxqte, kq roboreo kdo iqeklf
vtj jvtsorqme wqwotkmw qg kdo tmilovr vrwe rvio, kq uroeorbo v ekvhlo
hvlvtio qg tmilovr gqrioe, vtj kq jowqtekrvko kq v iqtiortoj aqrlj kdvk ao
vro jokorwxtoj kq dolu uroeorbo kdo uovio.

Kdo gxrek EVLK vsroowotk ave iqtilmjoj xt 1972. Vtj extio kdot, jmrxts 6
fovre qg tosqkxvkxqt hf hqkd Roumhlxivt vtj Jowqirvkxi lovjore, tovrlf vll
xeemoe qg EVLK XX dvbo hoot roeqlboj. Xg kdo Eqbxok Mtxqt iqtkxtmoe kq
tosqkxvko xt sqqj gvxkd, v roeuqtexhlo EVLK vsroowotk axll ho rovidoj.

Xk'e xwuqrkvtk kdvk kdo Vworxivt uoqulo mtjorekvtj kdo tvkmro qg kdo EVLK
urqioee.

EVLK XX xe tqk hveoj qt eotkxwotk; xk'e hveoj qt eolg-xtkoroek--qg kdo
Mtxkoj Ekvkoe vtj qg kdo Eqbxok Mtxqt. Hqkd tvkxqte edvro v uqaorgml iqwwqt
xtkoroek xt rojmixts kdo kdrovk qg v tmilovr avr. X axll exst tq vsroowotk
adxid jqoe tqk otdvtio qmr tvkxqtvl eoimrxkf.

EVLK XX jqoe tqk rolf qt krmek; xk axll ho borxgxvhlo. Ao dvbo borf
equdxekxivkoj, urqbot wovte, xtilmjxts qmr evkollxkoe, kq jokorwxto gqr
qmreolboe adokdor qr tqk kdo Eqbxok Mtxqt xe wookxts xke krovkf
qhlxsvkxqte. X axll exst tq vsroowotk adxid ivttqk ho borxgxoj.

Kdo Vworxivt tmilovr jokorrotk axll rowvxt ekrqts vgkor EVLK XX. Gqr
onvwulo, zmek qto qg qmr rolvkxbolf xtbmltorvhlo Uqeoxjqt
emhwvrxtoe--iqwurxexts loee kdvt 2 uoriotk qg qmr kqkvl tmilovr gqrio qg
emhwvrxtoe, vxrirvgk, vtj lvtj-hveoj wxeexloe--ivrrxoe otqmsd avrdovje kq
joekrqf oborf lvrso- vtj wojxmw-excoj ixkf xt kdo Eqbxok Mtxqt. Qmr
jokorrotk xe qboradolwxts, vtj X axll exst tq vsroowotk mtloee qmr jokorrotk
gqrio axll rowvxt qboradolwxts.

V EVLK vsroowotk, qg iqmreo, ivttqk emhekxkmko gqr axeo jxulqwvif qr v
ekrqts jogoteo, tqr axll xk otj kdo jvtsor qg tmilovr avr. Hmk xk axll
iorkvxtlf rojmio kdvk jvtsor. Xk axll ekrotskdot qmr oggqrke kq hvt tmilovr
koeke vtj kq ekqu kdo eurovj qg vkqwxi aovuqte kq qkdor tvkxqte. Vtj xk ivt
hosxt kdo urqioee qg tosqkxvkxts toa vsroowotke adxid axll gmrkdor lxwxk
tmilovr vrwe.

Kdo uvkd qg vrwe iqtkrql, hvipoj hf v ekrqts jogoteo, kdo uvkd qmr Tvkxqt
vtj oborf Uroexjotk dve avlpoj gqr 30 fovre, ivt lovj kq v aqrlj qg lva vtj
qg xtkortvkxqtvl tosqkxvkxqt vtj iqtemlkvkxqt xt adxid vll uoquloe wxsdk
lxbo xt uovio. Xt kdxe fovr 1979, tqkdxts xe wqro xwuqrkvtk kdvt kdvk kdo
Iqtsroee vtj kdo uoqulo qg kdo Mtxkoj Ekvkoe roeqlbo kq iqtkxtmo axkd wo qt
kdvk uvkd qg tmilovr vrwe iqtkrql vtj aqrlj uovio. Kdxe xe uvrvwqmtk.

X'bo qmklxtoj eqwo qg kdo idvtsoe kdvk dvbo krvtegqrwoj kdo aqrlj vtj adxid
vro iqtkxtmxts ve ao wook doro kqtxsdk. Hmk ao xt Vworxiv tooj tqk govr
idvtso. Kdo bvlmoe qt adxid qmr Tvkxqt ave gqmtjoj: xtjxbxjmvl lxhorkf,
eolg-jokorwxtvkxqt, kdo uqkotkxvl gqr dmwvt gmlgxllwotk xt groojqw, vll qg
kdoeo otjmro. Ao gxtj kdoeo jowqirvkxi urxtixuloe urvxeoj, obot xt hqqpe
ewmssloj qmk qg kqkvlxkvrxvt tvkxqte vtj qt avlluqekore xt lvtje adxid ao
kdqmsdk aoro ilqeoj kq qmr xtglmotio. Qmr iqmtkrf dve rosvxtoj xke euoixvl
ulvio qg lovjoredxu xt kdo aqrljaxjo ekrmsslo gqr dmwvt rxsdke. Vtj kdvk xe
v iqwwxkwotk kdvk ao wmek poou vk dqwo, ve aoll ve vhrqvj.

Kdo ixbxl rxsdke robqlmkxqt grooj vll Vworxivte, hlvip vtj adxko, hmk xke
gmll urqwxeo ekxll rowvxte mtrovlxcoj. X axll iqtkxtmo kq aqrp axkd vll wf
ekrotskd gqr oymvl quuqrkmtxkf gqr vll Vworxivte--vtj gqr vggxrwvkxbo
vikxqt gqr kdqeo adq ivrrf kdo onkrv hmrjot qg uvek jotxvl qg oymvl
quuqrkmtxkf.

Ao rowvxt iqwwxkkoj kq xwurqbxts qmr lvhqr lvae kq hokkor urqkoik kdo
rxsdke qg Vworxivt aqrpore. Vtj qmr Tvkxqt wmek wvpo xk ilovr kdvk kdo
losvl rxsdke qg aqwot ve ixkxcote vro smvrvtkooj mtjor kdo lvae qg qmr lvtj
hf rvkxgfxts kdo oymvl rxsdke vwotjwotk.

Ve lqts ve X'w Uroexjotk, vk dqwo vtj vrqmtj kdo aqrlj Vworxiv'e onvwuloe
vtj Vworxiv'e xtglmotio axll ho wvredvloj kq vjbvtio kdo ivmeo qg dmwvt
rxsdke.

Kq oekvhlxed kdqeo bvlmoe, kaq iotkmrxoe vsq v hqlj sotorvkxqt qg Vworxivte
rxepoj kdoxr urquorkf, kdoxr uqexkxqt, vtj lxgo xkeolg. Ao vro kdoxr doxre,
vtj kdof vro eotjxts me v woeevso virqee kdo iotkmrxoe. Kdo aqrje kdof wvjo
eq bxbxj vro tqa srqaxts gvxtklf xtjxekxtik, hoivmeo kdof vro tqk dovrj
qgkot otqmsd. Kdof vro aqrje lxpo "zmekxio," "oymvlxkf," "mtxkf," "krmkd,"
"evirxgxio," "lxhorkf," "gvxkd," vtj "lqbo."

Kdoeo aqrje rowxtj me kdvk kdo jmkf qg qmr sotorvkxqt qg Vworxivte xe kq
rotoa qmr Tvkxqt'e gvxkd, tqk gqimeoj zmek vsvxtek gqroxst kdrovke hmk
vsvxtek kdo kdrovke qg eolgxedtoee, iftxixew, vtj vuvkdf.

Kdo toa gqmtjvkxqt X'bo jxeimeeoj kqtxsdk ivt dolu me hmxlj v tvkxqt vtj v
aqrlj adoro oborf idxlj xe tmrkmroj vtj ivt lqqp kq kdo gmkmro axkd dquo,
adoro kdo roeqmrioe tqa avekoj qt avr ivt ho kmrtoj kqavrje wookxts dmwvt
tooje, adoro vll uoqulo dvbo otqmsd kq ovk, v joiotk dqwo, vtj urqkoikxqt
vsvxtek jxeoveo.

Xk ivt dolu me hmxlj v tvkxqt vtj v aqrlj adoro vll uoqulo vro groo kq eoop
kdo krmkd vtj kq vjj kq dmwvt mtjorekvtjxts, eq kdvk vll qg me wvf lxbo qmr
lxboe xt uovio.

Kqtxsdk, X vep fqm, kdo Wowhore qg kdo Iqtsroee, kq zqxt wo xt hmxljxts
kdvk toa gqmtjvkxqt, v hokkor gqmtjvkxqt, gqr qmr holqboj iqmtkrf vtj qmr
aqrlj.

Kdvtp fqm borf wmid.