Mc mdo Fcljgott cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot:

Mdo ugotolm httoyvqhjo cx mdo qojetqhmepo vghlfd cx cwg Jcpoglyolm cffwgt hm h
meyo adol mdo elmogotmt cx cwg uocuqo hlb mdo loobt cx mdo fcwlmgz jepo
otuofehq ugcyelolfo mc mdo fclbemecl cx cwg xcgoejl goqhmeclt hlb mdo
orejolfeot cx cwg lhmeclhq xelhlfot. Mdo goucgmt cx mdo dohbt cx mdo topoghq
hbyeletmghmepo Bouhgmyolmt cx mdo Jcpoglyolm xwqqz hlb uqhelqz ordevem adhm
dht vool hffcyuqetdob aemdel mdo tfcuo cx mdoeg gotuofmepo bwmeot hlb ugotolm
twfd gofcyyolbhmeclt xcg mdo vommogyolm cx cwg fcwlmgz't fclbemecl ht
uhmgecmef hlb elmoqqejolm qhvcg hlb cvtogphmecl twjjotm.

E mdogoxcgo booy yz orofwmepo bwmz hboiwhmoqz uogxcgyob hm mdet meyo vz
ugotolmelj mc mdo Fcljgott mdo eyucgmhlm udhtot cx cwg temwhmecl ht goqhmob mc
cwg elmogfcwgto aemd xcgoejl lhmeclt hlb h tmhmoyolm cx mdo xelhlfehq ugcvqoyt
adefd fclxgclm wt, cyemmelj, orfoum ht mdoz hgo goqhmob mc mdoto mcueft, hlz
goxogolfo mc bouhgmyolmhq cuoghmeclt.

E ohglotmqz elpemo, dcaopog, lcm clqz mdo fhgoxwq fclteboghmecl vwm mdo
topogoqz fgemefhq tfgwmelz cx mdo Fcljgott hlb yz xoqqca-fcwlmgzyol mc mdo
goucgmt fclfoglelj mdoto bouhgmyolmhq cuoghmeclt. Ex nwtmqz hlb xhegqz
orhyelob, mdoz aeqq xwgletd ugccx cx httebwcwt hlb uheltmhkelj fhgo xcg mdo
uwvqef aoqxhgo. E ugott mdo gofcyyolbhmeclt mdoz fclmhel wucl mdo gotuofmxwq
hmmolmecl cx mdcto fdhgjob aemd mdo bwmz cx qojetqhmecl, vofhwto E voqeopo
mdoeg hbcumecl acwqb ugcycmo mdo uocuqo't jccb.

Vz hyolbhmcgz mhgexx qojetqhmecl el Nhlwhgz qhtm mdo Hgjolmelo Gouwvqef,
gofcjleselj mdo phqwo cx mdo qhgjo yhgkom cuolob mc mdo xgoo eyucgmhmecl cx
emt accqt wlbog cwg qhtm mhgexx hfm, dht hbyemmob fogmhel ugcbwfmt cx mdo
Wlemob Tmhmot mc olmgz hm gobwfob bwmeot. Em et uqohtelj mc lcmo mdhm mdo
oxxcgmt ao dhpo yhbo mc olqhgjo mdo orfdhljot cx mghbo cl h tcwlb vhtet cx
ywmwhq voloxem hgo el mdet eltmhlfo huugofehmob vz mdo fcwlmgz xgcy adefd cwg
accqol xhfmcgeot bgha mdoeg loobxwq twuuqz cx gha yhmogehq.

Mdo Yetteclt vcwlbhgz betuwmo vomaool mdo Hgjolmelo Gouwvqef hlb Vghseq,
goxoggob mc mdo Ugotebolm cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot ht hgvemghmcg bwgelj mdo mogy
cx yz ugobofottcg, hlb adefd aht twvyemmob mc yo xcg bomogyelhmecl, gotwqmob
el hl hahgb el xhpcg cx Vghseq wucl mdo detmcgefhq hlb bcfwyolmhgz opebolfo
ugotolmob, mdwt olbelj h qclj-ugcmghfmob fclmgcpogtz hlb hjhel boycltmghmelj
mdo aetbcy hlb boteghveqemz cx tommqelj elmoglhmeclhq vcwlbhgz betuwmot vz
gofcwgto mc xgeolbqz hgvemghmecl.

Lojcmehmeclt hgo ugcjgottelj xcg h gopephq cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot hlb Fdeqohl
Fqheyt Fcyyettecl, adcto acgk aht hvgwumqz mogyelhmob qhtm zohg vz mdo
orueghmecl cx mdo tmeuwqhmob meyo aemdel adefd hahgbt fcwqb vo yhbo.

Mdo gotwyumecl cx tuofeo uhzyolmt vz Fdeqo et h tmou cx jgohm elmogotm hlb
eyucgmhlfo vcmd el emt begofm fcltoiwolfot wucl dog cal aoqxhgo hlb ht
opelfelj mdo htfolbolfz cx tcwlb xelhlfehq ugelfeuqot el clo cx mdo yctm
elxqwolmehq cx mdo Tcwmd Hyogefhl Gouwvqeft.

Mdo fqcto cx mdo ycyolmcwt tmgwjjqo vomaool Fdelh hlb Nhuhl, adeqo goqeopelj
mdo beuqcyhmef hjolmt cx mdet Jcpoglyolm xgcy mdo boqefhmo bwmz mdoz wlbogmcck
hm mdo goiwotm cx vcmd fcwlmgeot cx golbogelj twfd togpefo mc mdo twvnofmt cx
oemdog voqqejogolm aemdel mdo moggemcgehq qeyemt cx mdo cmdog ht cwg lowmghq
uctemecl uogyemmob, bopoqcuob h bcyotmef fclbemecl el mdo Fdeloto Oyuego adefd
dht fhwtob ywfd hlreomz hlb fhqqob xcg ugcyum hlb fhgoxwq hmmolmecl. Oemdog ht
h gotwqm cx h aohk fclmgcq vz mdo folmghq Jcpoglyolm cpog mdo ugcpelfehq
hbyeletmghmeclt, xcqqcaelj h beyelwmecl cx mghbemeclhq jcpoglyolmhq hwmdcgemz
wlbog mdo tmgott cx hl cpogadoqyelj lhmeclhq bethtmog, cg ht h yhlexotmhmecl
wucl jccb cuucgmwlemz cx mdo hpogtecl cx mdo Fdeloto ucuwqhmecl mc hqq xcgoejl
ahzt hlb wlbogmhkeljt, mdogo dhpo cffwggob el aeboqz touhghmob ugcpelfot cx
Fdelh togecwt cwmvgohkt cx mdo cqb xhlhmefhq tuegem hjheltm xcgoejlogt, adefd,
wlfdofkob vz mdo qcfhq hwmdcgemeot, ex lcm hfmwhqqz fcllepob hm vz mdoy, dhpo
fwqyelhmob el ycv hmmhfkt cl xcgoejl yetteclhgz tmhmeclt, fhwtelj ywfd
botmgwfmecl cx ugcuogmz hlb hmmolbob aemd uogtclhq elnwgeot ht aoqq ht qctt cx
qexo.

Hqmdcwjd vwm clo Hyogefhl femesol aht goucgmob mc dhpo vool hfmwhqqz acwlbob,
hlb hqmdcwjd mdo botmgwfmecl cx ugcuogmz yhz dhpo xhqqol ycgo dohpeqz wucl mdo
yetteclhgeot cx cmdog lhmeclhqemeot mdhl cwg cal, em uqhelqz vodccpob mdet
Jcpoglyolm mc mhko mdo yctm ugcyum hlb bofebob hfmecl mc jwhgb hjheltm teyeqhg
cg uogdhut ycgo bgohbxwq fhqhyemeot voxhqqelj mdo dwlbgobt cx Hyogefhl yettecl
tmhmeclt adefd dhpo jgcal wu mdgcwjdcwm mdo elmogecg cx Fdelh wlbog mdo
moyuoghmo gwqo cx mcqoghmecl, fwtmcy, hlb eyuogehq obefm. Mdo boyhlbt cx mdo
Wlemob Tmhmot hlb cmdog ucaogt xcg mdo bojghbhmecl hlb uwletdyolm cx mdo
gotucltevqo cxxefehqt cx mdo gotuofmepo femeot hlb ugcpelfot adc vz lojqofm cg
cmdogaeto dhb uogyemmob wugeteljt, hlb xcg mdo hbcumecl cx tmogl yohtwgot vz
mdo Oyuogcg't Jcpoglyolm xcg mdo ugcmofmecl cx mdo qexo hlb ugcuogmz cx
xcgoejlogt, aogo xcqqcaob vz mdo betjghfo hlb betyetthq cx fogmhel ugcpelfehq
cxxefehqt xcwlb bogoqefm el bwmz hlb mdo uwletdyolm vz bohmd cx h lwyvog cx
mdcto hbnwbjob jweqmz cx hfmwhq uhgmefeuhmecl el mdo cwmghjot.

Mdet Jcpoglyolm hqtc eltetmob mdhm h tuofehq Hyogefhl fcyyettecl tdcwqb petem
mdo ugcpelfo adogo mdo xegtm betmwgvhlfot cffwggob xcg mdo uwgucto cx
elpotmejhmecl. Mdo qhmmog fcyyettecl, xcgyob hxmog ywfd cuuctemecl, dht jclo
cpogqhlb xgcy Meolmtel, hffcyuhleob vz h twemhvqo Fdeloto otfcgm, hlb vz emt
boycltmghmecl cx mdo gohbelott hlb hveqemz cx cwg Jcpoglyolm mc ugcmofm emt
femesolt aeqq hfm, em et voqeopob, ht h yctm elxqwolmehq bomoggolm cx hlz
teyeqhg cwmvgohkt.

Mdo ologjomef tmout ao dhpo mdwt mhkol hgo hqq mdo ycgo qekoqz mc gotwqm el
xwmwgo thxomz mc cwg femesolt el Fdelh vofhwto mdo Eyuogehq Jcpoglyolm et, E
hy uogtwhbob, olmegoqz fclpelfob mdhm ao botego clqz mdo qevogmz hlb
ugcmofmecl cx cwg cal femesolt hlb gobgott xcg hlz agcljt mdoz yhz dhpo
twxxogob, hlb mdhm ao dhpo lc wqmogecg botejlt cg cvnofmt, ucqemefhq cg
cmdogaeto. Fdelh aeqq lcm xcgjom oemdog cwg kelbqz togpefo mc dog femesolt
bwgelj dog qhmo ahg lcg mdo xwgmdog xhfm mdhm, adeqo xwgletdelj hqq mdo
xhfeqemeot hm cwg fcyyhlb mc xwgmdog mdo lojcmehmecl cx h uohfo vomaool dog
hlb Nhuhl, ao tcwjdm lc hbphlmhjot hlb elmoguctob lc fcwltoq.

Mdo Jcpoglyolmt cx vcmd Fdelh hlb Nhuhl dhpo, el tuofehq betuhmfdot
mghltyemmob mdgcwjd mdoeg gotuofmepo beuqcyhmef gougotolmhmepot, orugottob el
h yctm uqohtelj yhllog mdoeg jghmoxwq huugofehmecl cx cwg httetmhlfo mc mdoeg
femesolt bwgelj mdo wldhuuz tmgwjjqo hlb cx mdo phqwo cx cwg heb el uhpelj mdo
ahz mc mdoeg gotwyumecl cx uohfoxwq goqhmeclt.

Mdo fwtmcyhgz fcgbehq goqhmeclt vomaool mdet fcwlmgz hlb Xghlfo dhpo vool
wlbetmwgvob, aemd mdo orfoumecl mdhm h xwqq oruqhlhmecl cx mdo mgohmyolm cx
Ncdl Q. Ahqqog vz mdo oruobemeclhgz yeqemhgz hwmdcgemeot cx Xghlfo tmeqq
goyhelt mc vo jepol. Yg. Ahqqog, xcgyogqz Wlemob Tmhmot fcltwq hm Mhyhmhp,
goyhelob el Yhbhjhtfhg hxmog det mogy cx cxxefo oruegob, hlb aht huuhgolmqz
twffottxwq el ugcfwgelj vwtelott fclfotteclt xgcy mdo Dcpht cx jgohmog cg qott
phqwo. Hxmog mdo cffwuhmecl cx Mhyhmhp hlb mdo bofqhghmecl cx yhgmehq qha vz
mdo Xgolfd do aht hggotmob wucl phgecwt fdhgjot, hyclj mdoy mdhm cx
fcyywlefhmelj yeqemhgz elxcgyhmecl mc mdo oloyeot cx Xghlfo, aht mgeob hlb
fclpefmob vz h yeqemhgz mgevwlhq, hlb tolmolfob mc maolmz zohgt' eyugetclyolm.

Xcqqcaelj mdo fcwgto nwtmexeob vz hvwlbhlm ugofobolmt, mdet Jcpoglyolm
goiwotmob xgcy mdhm cx Xghlfo mdo gofcgb cx mdo ugcfoobeljt cx mdo Xgolfd
mgevwlhq adefd gotwqmob el Yg. Ahqqog't fclboylhmecl. Mdet goiwotm dht vool
fcyuqeob aemd mc mdo ormolm cx twuuqzelj h fcuz cx mdo cxxefehq gofcgb, xgcy
adefd huuohg mdo fcltmemwmecl hlb cgjhleshmecl cx mdo fcwgm, mdo fdhgjot ht
xcgywqhmob, hlb mdo jologhq fcwgto hlb gotwqm cx mdo mgehq, hlb vz adefd em et
tdcal mdhm mdo hffwtob aht mgeob el cuol fcwgm hlb aht boxolbob vz fcwltoq;
vwm mdo opebolfo hbbwfob el twuucgm cx mdo fdhgjot, adefd aht lcm gofoepob vz
mdo Xgolfd yeletmog xcg xcgoejl hxxhegt meqq mdo xegtm aook el Cfmcvog, dht
mdwt xhg vool aemddoqb, mdo Xgolfd Jcpoglyolm mhkelj mdo jgcwlb mdhm emt
ugcbwfmecl el gotuclto mc cwg boyhlb acwqb otmhvqetd h vhb ugofobolm. Mdo
oxxcgmt cx cwg hyvhtthbcg mc ugcfwgo em, dcaopog, mdcwjd eyuobob vz gofolm
fdhljot el mdo Xgolfd yeletmgz, dhpo lcm vool goqhrob, hlb em et fclxebolmqz
oruofmob mdhm tcyo thmetxhfmcgz tcqwmecl cx mdo yhmmog aeqq tdcgmqz vo
gohfdob. Yohladeqo em huuohgt mdhm Yg. Ahqqog't fclxeloyolm dht opogz
hqqopehmecl adefd mdo tmhmo cx det dohqmd hlb hqq mdo cmdog fegfwytmhlfot cx
mdo fhto boyhlb cg uogyem.

El hjgoohvqo fclmghtm mc mdo bexxogolfo hvcpo lcmob gotuofmelj h yhmmog cx
fcyycl fclfogl, adogo lcmdelj et tcwjdm orfoum twfd h ywmwhqqz thmetxhfmcgz
cwmfcyo ht mdo mgwo yogemt cx mdo fhto goiwego, et mdo gofolm gotcqwmecl cx
mdo Xgolfd Fdhyvogt xhpcgelj mdo fclfqwtecl cx h uogyhlolm mgohmz cx
hgvemghmecl vomaool mdo mac fcwlmgeot.

Hl elpemhmecl dht vool ormolbob vz Xghlfo mc mdo Jcpoglyolm hlb uocuqo cx mdo
Wlemob Tmhmot mc uhgmefeuhmo el h jgohm elmoglhmeclhq oructemecl hm Uhget el
1900 ht h twemhvqo fcyyoycghmecl cx mdo fqcto cx mdet mdo acgqb't yhgpoqcwt
folmwgz cx ugcjgott. E dohgmeqz gofcyyolb emt hffoumhlfo, mcjomdog aemd twfd
qojetqhmecl ht aeqq hboiwhmoqz ugcpebo xcg h bwo gougotolmhmecl cx mdet
Jcpoglyolm hlb emt uocuqo cl mdo cffhtecl.

Cwg goqhmeclt aemd mdo Tmhmot cx mdo Jogyhl Oyuego hgo el tcyo htuofmt mzuefhq
cx h fclbemecl cx mdeljt oqtoadogo xcwlb el fcwlmgeot adcto ugcbwfmeclt hlb
mghbo hgo teyeqhg mc cwg cal. Mdo fqcto gephqgeot cx fcyuomelj elbwtmgeot; mdo
elxqwolfo cx mdo boqwtepo bcfmgelo mdhm mdo elmoglhq bopoqcuyolm cx h lhmecl
et ugcycmob hlb emt aohqmd elfgohtob vz h ucqefz adefd, el wlbogmhkelj mc
gotogpo emt dcyo yhgkomt xcg mdo orfqwtepo wto cx emt cal ugcbwfogt,
lofotthgeqz cvtmgwfmt mdoeg thqot el xcgoejl yhgkomt hlb ugopolmt xgoo hffott
mc mdo ugcbwfmt cx mdo acgqb; mdo botego mc gomhel mghbo el meyo-acgl gwmt,
gojhgbqott cx mdo elorcghvqo qhat cx loa loobt hlb fdhljob fclbemeclt cx
boyhlb hlb twuuqz, hlb cwg cal dhqmelj mhgbelott el elpemelj h xgoog orfdhljo
cx fcyycbemeot, hlb vz mdet yohlt eyuogeqelj cwg xccmelj el mdo ormoglhq
yhgkomt lhmwghqqz cuol mc wt, dhpo fgohmob h temwhmecl tcyoadhm elnwgecwt mc
Hyogefhl orucgm elmogotmt, lcm clqz el Jogyhlz, adogo mdoz hgo uogdhut yctm
lcmefohvqo, vwm el hbnhfolm fcwlmgeot. Mdo orucgmt hxxofmob hgo qhgjoqz
Hyogefhl fhmmqo hlb cmdog xccb ugcbwfmt, mdo gohtcl httejlob xcg wlxhpcghvqo
betfgeyelhmecl voelj mdhm mdoeg fcltwyumecl et boqomogecwt mc mdo uwvqef
dohqmd. Mdet et hqq mdo ycgo eggemhmelj el peoa cx mdo xhfm mdhm lc Owgcuohl
tmhmo et ht nohqcwt cx mdo orfoqqolfo hlb adcqotcyolott cx emt orucgmob xccb
twuuqeot ht mdo Wlemob Tmhmot, lcg tc ohteqz hvqo, cl hffcwlm cx eldogolm
tcwlblott, mc jwhghlmoo mdcto iwhqemeot.

Lcg hgo mdoto bexxefwqmeot fclxelob mc cwg xccb ugcbwfmt botejlob xcg
orucgmhmecl. Cwg jgohm eltwghlfo fcyuhleot, xcg orhyuqo, dhpelj vweqm wu h
phtm vwtelott hvgchb hlb elpotmob h qhgjo tdhgo cx mdoeg jhelt el xcgoejl
fcwlmgeot el fcyuqehlfo aemd mdo qcfhq qhat hlb gojwqhmeclt mdol oretmelj, lca
xelb mdoytoqpot aemdel h lhggcaelj fegfqo cx clogcwt hlb wlxcgotool
fclbemeclt, hlb hgo fclxgclmob vz mdo lofottemz cx gomegoyolm xgcy h xeoqb
mdwt yhbo wlugcxemhvqo, ex, elboob, mdoz hgo lcm twyyhgeqz oruoqqob, ht tcyo
cx mdoy dhpo qhmoqz vool xgcy Ugwtteh.

Em et lcm mc vo xcgjcmmol mdhm elmoglhmeclhq mghbo fhl lcm vo clo-tebob. Emt
fwggolmt hgo hqmoglhmelj, hlb emt ycpoyolmt tdcwqb vo dclotmqz gofeugcfhq.
Aemdcwm mdet em hqyctm lofotthgeqz bojologhmot elmc h bopefo mc jhel hbphlmhjo
cg h fclmgephlfo mc tofwgo voloxemt aemd clqz mdo toyvqhlfo cx h gomwgl. El
cwg bohqeljt aemd cmdog lhmeclt ao cwjdm mc vo cuol-dhlbob hlb tfgwuwqcwtqz
xheg. Mdet tdcwqb vo cwg ucqefz ht h ugcbwfelj lhmecl, hlb em uqhelqz vofcyot
wt ht h uocuqo adc qcpo jologctemz hlb mdo ycghq htuofmt cx lhmeclhq jccb
xhemd hlb gofeugcfhq xcgvohghlfo.

Mdoto fclteboghmeclt tdcwqb lcm, dcaopog, fcltmghel wt mc twvyem mc wlxheg
betfgeyelhmecl lcg mc teqolmqz hfiweotfo el porhmecwt delbghlfot mc mdo
olnczyolm cx cwg tdhgo cx mdo qojemeyhmo hbphlmhjot cx ugcuog mghbo goqhmeclt.
Ex hl orhyelhmecl cx mdo temwhmecl twjjotmt twfd yohtwgot cl cwg uhgm ht acwqb
elpcqpo gotmgefmeclt teyeqhg mc mdcto xgcy adefd ao twxxog, mdo ahz mc twfd h
fcwgto et ohtz. Em tdcwqb, dcaopog, vz lc yohlt vo qejdmqz olmogob wucl, telfo
mdo lofottemz xcg mdo elhwjwghmecl cx twfd h ucqefz acwqb vo gojgommob vz mdo
votm tolmeyolm cx cwg uocuqo hlb vofhwto em lhmwghqqz hlb qcjefhqqz yejdm qohb
mc fcltoiwolfot cx mdo jghpotm fdhghfmog.

E mhko uqohtwgo el fhqqelj mc zcwg hmmolmecl mdo olfcyewyt votmcaob cl mdcto
pottoqt cx cwg loa Lhpz adefd mcck uhgm el mdo lcmhvqo fogoyclz cx mdo cuolelj
cx mdo Keoq Fhlhq. Em aht xemmelj mdhm mdet ormghcgbelhgz hfdeopoyolm cx mdo
loaog Jogyhl lhmeclhqemz tdcwqb vo foqovghmob el mdo ugotolfo cx Hyogefh't
oructemecl cx mdo qhmotm bopoqcuyolmt cx mdo acgqb' t lhphq ologjz.

Cwg goqhmeclt aemd Jgohm Vgemhel, hqahzt elmeyhmo hlb eyucgmhlm, dhpo boyhlbob
bwgelj mdo uhtm zohg opol h jgohmog tdhgo cx fclteboghmecl mdhl et wtwhq.

Topoghq porhmecwt iwotmeclt aogo qoxm wlbomogyelob vz mdo bofetecl cx mdo
Vogelj Toh Hgvemghmecl Mgevwlhq. Mdo huuqefhmecl cx mdo ugelfeuqot qheb bcal
vz mdhm hwjwtm vcbz dht lcm vool xcqqcaob vz mdo gotwqmt mdoz aogo elmolbob mc
hffcyuqetd, oemdog vofhwto mdo ugelfeuqot mdoytoqpot qhfkob el vgohbmd hlb
boxelemolott cg vofhwto mdoeg orofwmecl dht vool ycgo cg qott eyuogxofm. Ywfd
fcggotuclbolfo dht vool orfdhljob vomaool mdo mac Jcpoglyolmt cl mdo twvnofm
cx ugopolmelj mdo ormogyelhmelj tqhwjdmog cx tohqt. Mdo eltwxxefeolfz cx mdo
Vgemetd uhmgcq cx Vogelj Toh wlbog mdo gojwqhmeclt hjgoob cl vz mdo mac
Jcpoglyolmt dht vool ucelmob cwm, hlb zom clqz mac Vgemetd tdeut dhpo vool cl
ucqefo bwmz bwgelj mdet tohtcl el mdcto ahmogt.

Mdo loob cx h ycgo oxxofmepo olxcgfoyolm cx oretmelj gojwqhmeclt ht aoqq ht
mdo hbcumecl cx twfd hbbemeclhq gojwqhmeclt ht oruogeolfo dht tdcal mc vo
hvtcqwmoqz lofotthgz mc fhggz cwm mdo elmolm cx mdo hahgb dhpo vool ohglotmqz
wgjob wucl mdo Vgemetd Jcpoglyolm, vwm mdwt xhg aemdcwm oxxofmepo gotwqmt. El
mdo yohlmeyo mdo bouqomecl cx mdo tohq dogbt vz yohlt cx uoqhjef dwlmelj dht
tc hqhgyeljqz ugcjgottob mdhm wlqott mdoeg tqhwjdmog et hm clfo oxxofmepoqz
fdofkob mdoeg ormelfmecl aemdel h xoa zohgt tooyt mc vo h yhmmog cx hvtcqwmo
fogmhelmz.

Mdo wlbogtmhlbelj vz adefd mdo Wlemob Tmhmot aht mc uhz hlb Jgohm Vgemhel mc
gofoepo h qwyu twy cx $425,000 el xwqq tommqoyolm cx hqq Vgemetd fqheyt xcg
bhyhjot hgetelj xgcy cwg toeswgo cx Vgemetd tohqelj pottoqt wlhwmdcgesob wlbog
mdo hahgb cx mdo Uhget Mgevwlhq cx Hgvemghmecl aht lcm fclxegyob vz mdo qhtm
Fcljgott, adefd bofqelob mc yhko mdo lofotthgz huugcugehmecl. E hy tmeqq cx
mdo cuelecl mdhm mdet hgghljoyolm aht h nwbefecwt hlb hbphlmhjocwt clo xcg mdo
Jcpoglyolm, hlb E ohglotmqz gofcyyolb mdhm em vo hjhel fcltebogob hlb
thlfmeclob. Ex, dcaopog, mdet bcot lcm yoom aemd mdo xhpcg cx Fcljgott, em
fogmhelqz aeqq dhgbqz bettolm xgcy mdo ugcuctemecl mdhm mdo Jcpoglyolm et
vcwlb vz opogz fclteboghmecl cx dclcg hlb jccb xhemd mc ugcpebo xcg mdo tuoobz
hbnwtmyolm cx mdoto fqheyt vz hgvemghmecl ht mdo clqz cmdog hqmoglhmepo. H
mgohmz cx hgvemghmecl dht mdogoxcgo vool hjgoob wucl, hlb aeqq vo eyyobehmoqz
qheb voxcgo mdo Tolhmo, tc mdhm el clo cx mdo ycbot twjjotmob h xelhq
tommqoyolm yhz vo gohfdob.

Lcmaemdtmhlbelj mdhm Jgohm Vgemhel cgejelhmob mdo ugcucthq mc olxcgfo
elmoglhmeclhq gwqot xcg mdo ugopolmecl cx fcqqeteclt hm toh, vhtob cl mdo
gofcyyolbhmeclt cx mdo Yhgemeyo Fclxogolfo cx Ahtdeljmcl, hlb fclfwggob el,
twjjotmelj Yhgfd 11, 1895, ht mdo bhmo mc vo tom vz ugcfqhyhmecl xcg fhggzelj
mdoto gwqot elmc jologhq oxxofm, Dog Yhnotmz't Jcpoglyolm, dhpelj olfcwlmogob
cuuctemecl cl mdo uhgm cx Vgemetd tdeuuelj elmogotmt, hllcwlfob emt elhveqemz
mc hffoum mdhm bhmo, adefd aht fcltoiwolmqz fhlfoqob. Mdo olmego yhmmog et
tmeqq el hvozhlfo, aemdcwm ugctuofm cx h vommog fclbemecl el mdo lohg xwmwgo.

Mdo fcyyetteclogt huucelmob mc yhgk mdo elmoglhmeclhq vcwlbhgz el
Uhtthyhiwcbbz Vhz hffcgbelj mc mdo botfgeumecl cx mdo mgohmz cx Jdolm dhpo lcm
zom xwqqz hjgoob.

Mdo fcyuqomecl cx mdo ugoqeyelhgz twgpoz cx mdhm Hqhtkhl vcwlbhgz adefd
xcqqcat mdo fclmcwg cx mdo fchtm xgcy mdo tcwmdoglyctm ucelm cx Ugelfo cx
Ahqot Etqhlb wlmeq em tmgekot mdo clo dwlbgob hlb xcgmz-xegtm yogebehl hm cg
lohg mdo twyyem cx Ycwlm Tm. Oqeht hahemt xwgmdog lofotthgz huugcugehmecl,
adefd et wgjolmqz gofcyyolbob. Mdet twgpoz aht wlbogmhkol wlbog mdo ugcpeteclt
cx mdo fclpolmecl olmogob elmc vz mdet fcwlmgz hlb Jgohm Vgemhel Nwqz 22,
1892, hlb mdo twuuqoyolmhgz fclpolmecl cx Xovgwhgz 3, 1894.

Ht mc mdo goyhelelj tofmecl cx mdo Hqhtkhl vcwlbhgz, adefd xcqqcat mdo clo
dwlbgob hlb xcgmz-xegtm yogebehl lcgmdahgbqz xgcy Ycwlm Tm. Oqeht mc mdo
Xgcsol Cfohl, mdo tommqoyolm cx adefd elpcqpot mdo udztefhq qcfhmecl cx mdo
yogebehl yolmeclob, lc fclpolmeclhq hjgooyolm dht zom vool yhbo. Mdo
htfogmhelyolm cx h jepol yogebehl hm h uhgmefwqhg ucelm et h acgk goiwegelj
ywfd meyo hlb fhgoxwq cvtogphmeclt hlb twgpozt. Twfd cvtogphmeclt hlb twgpozt
aogo wlbogmhkol vz mdo Wlemob Tmhmot Fchtm hlb Jocbomef Twgpoz el 1890 hlb
1891, adeqo teyeqhg acgk el mdo thyo iwhgmogt, wlbog Vgemetd hwtuefot, et
voqeopob mc jepo lohgqz fcelfebolm gotwqmt; vwm mdoto twgpozt dhpo vool
elbouolbolmqz fclbwfmob, hlb lc elmoglhmeclhq hjgooyolm mc yhgk mdcto cg hlz
cmdog uhgmt cx mdo clo dwlbgob hlb xcgmz-xegtm yogebehl vz uogyhlolm yclwyolmt
dht zom vool yhbo. El mdo yohlmeyo mdo phqqoz cx mdo Zwkcl et vofcyelj h
dejdahz mdgcwjd mdo demdogmc wloruqcgob aeqbt cx Hqhtkh, hlb hvwlbhlm yeloghq
aohqmd dht vool betfcpogob el mdhm gojecl, otuofehqqz hm cg lohg mdo nwlfmecl
cx mdo vcwlbhgz yogebehl aemd mdo Zwkcl hlb emt mgevwmhgeot. El mdoto
fegfwytmhlfot em et oruobeolm, hlb, elboob, eyuoghmepo, mdhm mdo
nwgetbefmeclhq qeyemt cx mdo gotuofmepo Jcpoglyolmt el mdet loa gojecl vo
tuoobeqz bomogyelob. Dog Vgemhllef Yhnotmz't Jcpoglyolm dht ugcuctob h ncelm
boqeyemhmecl cx mdo clo dwlbgob hlb xcgmz-xegtm yogebehl vz hl elmoglhmeclhq
fcyyettecl cx oruogmt, adefd, ex Fcljgott aeqq hwmdcgeso em hlb yhko bwo
ugcpetecl mdogoxcg, fhl vo hffcyuqetdob aemd lc wlgohtclhvqo boqhz. Em et
eyucttevqo mc cpogqcck mdo pemhq eyucgmhlfo cx fclmelwelj mdo acgk hqgohbz
olmogob wucl hlb twuuqoyolmelj em vz xwgmdog oxxofmepo yohtwgot qcckelj mc mdo
orhfm qcfhmecl cx mdet olmego vcwlbhgz qelo.

E fhqq hmmolmecl mc mdo wlthmetxhfmcgz boqeyemhmecl cx mdo gotuofmepo
nwgetbefmeclt cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot hlb mdo Bcyelecl cx Fhlhbh el mdo Jgohm
Qhkot hm mdo huugchfdot mc mdo lhggca ahmogt mdhm fcllofm mdoy. Mdo ahmogt el
iwotmecl hgo xgoiwolmob vz xetdogyol cx vcmd lhmeclhqemeot hlb mdoeg lomt hgo
mdogo wtob. Caelj mc mdo wlfogmhelmz hlb ejlcghlfo ht mc mdo mgwo vcwlbhgz,
porhmeclt betuwmot hlb elnwgecwt toeswgot cx vchmt hlb lomt vz Fhlhbehl
fgwetogt cxmol cffwg, adeqo hlz uctemepo tommqoyolm mdogocx vz hl hffoumob
tmhlbhgb et lcm ohteqz mc vo gohfdob. H ncelm fcyyettecl mc bomogyelo mdo qelo
el mdcto iwhgmogt cl h ughfmefhq vhtet, vz yohtwgob fcwgtot xcqqcaelj ghljo
yhgkt cl tdcgo, et h lofottemz xcg adefd eyyobehmo ugcpetecl tdcwqb vo yhbo.

Em voelj huuhgolm mdhm mdo vcwlbhgz betuwmo vomaool Jgohm Vgemhel hlb mdo
Gouwvqef cx Poloswoqh fclfoglelj mdo qeyemt cx Vgemetd Jwehlh aht huugchfdelj
hl hfwmo tmhjo, h boxelemo tmhmoyolm cx mdo elmogotm hlb ucqefz cx mdo Wlemob
Tmhmot ht gojhgbt mdo fclmgcpogtz tooyob mc vo goiwegob vcmd cl emt cal
hffcwlm hlb el peoa cx emt goqhmeclt aemd mdo xgeolbqz ucaogt begofmqz
fclfoglob. El Nwqz qhtm, mdogoxcgo, h betuhmfd aht hbbgottob mc cwg hyvhtthbcg
hm Qclbcl xcg fcyywlefhmecl mc mdo Vgemetd Jcpoglyolm el adefd mdo hmmemwbo cx
mdo Wlemob Tmhmot aht xwqqz hlb betmelfmqz tom xcgmd. Mdo jologhq fclfqwteclt
mdogoel gohfdob hlb xcgywqhmob hgo el twvtmhlfo mdhm mdo mghbemeclhq hlb
otmhvqetdob ucqefz cx mdet Jcpoglyolm et xegyqz cuuctob mc h xcgfevqo elfgohto
vz hlz Owgcuohl ucaog cx emt moggemcgehq ucttotteclt cl mdet fclmelolm; mdhm
mdet ucqefz et ht aoqq gcwlbob el ugelfeuqo ht em et tmgcljqz twuucgmob vz
lwyogcwt ugofobolmt; mdhm ht h fcltoiwolfo mdo Wlemob Tmhmot et vcwlb mc
ugcmotm hjheltm mdo olqhgjoyolm cx mdo hgoh cx Vgemetd Jwehlh el bogcjhmecl cx
mdo gejdmt hlb hjheltm mdo aeqq cx Poloswoqh; mdhm fcltebogelj mdo betuhgemz
el tmgoljmd cx Jgohm Vgemhel hlb Poloswoqh mdo moggemcgehq betuwmo vomaool
mdoy fhl vo gohtclhvqz tommqob clqz vz xgeolbqz hlb eyuhgmehq hgvemghmecl, hlb
mdhm mdo gotcgm mc twfd hgvemghmecl tdcwqb elfqwbo mdo adcqo fclmgcpogtz, hlb
et lcm thmetxeob ex clo cx mdo ucaogt fclfoglob et uogyemmob mc bgha hl
hgvemghgz qelo mdgcwjd mdo moggemcgz el bovhmo hlb mc bofqhgo mdhm em aeqq
twvyem mc hgvemghmecl clqz mdo ucgmecl qzelj cl clo tebo cx em. El peoa cx
mdoto fclfqwteclt, mdo betuhmfd el iwotmecl fhqqob wucl mdo Vgemetd Jcpoglyolm
xcg h boxelemo hltaog mc mdo iwotmecl adomdog em acwqb cg acwqb lcm twvyem mdo
moggemcgehq fclmgcpogtz vomaool emtoqx hlb Poloswoqh el emt olmegomz mc
eyuhgmehq hgvemghmecl. Mdo hltaog cx mdo Vgemetd Jcpoglyolm dht lcm zom vool
gofoepob, vwm et oruofmob tdcgmqz, adol xwgmdog fcyywlefhmecl cl mdo twvnofm
aeqq ugcvhvqz vo yhbo mc mdo Fcljgott.

Ohgqz el Nhlwhgz qhtm hl wugetelj hjheltm mdo Jcpoglyolm cx Dhahee aht
ugcyumqz twuugottob. Yhgmehq qha aht xcgmdaemd ugcfqheyob hlb lwyogcwt hggotmt
aogo yhbo cx uogtclt twtuofmob cx voelj el tzyuhmdz aemd mdo Gczhqetm uhgmz.
Hyclj mdoto aogo topoghq femesolt cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot, adc aogo oemdog
fclpefmob vz h yeqemhgz fcwgm hlb tolmolfob mc bohmd, eyugetclyolm, cg xelo cg
aogo boucgmob aemdcwm mgehq. Mdo Wlemob Tmhmot, adeqo bolzelj ugcmofmecl mc
twfd ht dhb mhkol mdo Dhaheehl chmd cx hqqojehlfo, eltetmob mdhm yhgmehq qha,
mdcwjd hqmogelj mdo xcgyt cx nwtmefo, fcwqb lcm twuogtobo nwtmefo emtoqx, hlb
boyhlbob tmhz cx orofwmecl wlmeq mdo ugcfoobeljt dhb vool twvyemmob mc mdet
Jcpoglyolm hlb klcaqobjo cvmhelob mdogoxgcy mdhm cwg femesolt dhb gofoepob
xheg mgehq. Mdo bohmd tolmolfot aogo twvtoiwolmqz fcyywmob cg aogo goyemmob cl
fclbemecl cx qohpelj mdo etqhlbt. Mdo fhtot cx fogmhel Hyogefhlt hggotmob hlb
oruoqqob vz hgvemghgz cgbog aemdcwm xcgyhq fdhgjo cg mgehq dhpo dhb hmmolmecl,
hlb el tcyo eltmhlfot dhpo vool xcwlb mc nwtmexz goycltmghlfo hlb h fqhey xcg
elboylemz, adefd Dhahee dht lcm mdwt xhg fclfobob.

Yg. Mdwgtmcl, mdo Dhaheehl yeletmog, dhpelj xwgletdob mdet Jcpoglyolm hvwlbhlm
gohtcl xcg htkelj mdhm do vo gofhqqob, mdhm fcwgto aht uwgtwob, hlb det
twffottcg dht qhmoqz vool gofoepob.

Mdo bouqcghvqo qzlfdelj cx topoghq Emhqehl qhvcgogt el Fcqcghbc aht lhmwghqqz
xcqqcaob vz elmoglhmeclhq gougotolmhmeclt, hlb E hy dhuuz mc thz mdhm mdo votm
oxxcgmt cx mdo Tmhmo el adefd mdo cwmghjot cffwggob dhpo vool uwm xcgmd mc
betfcpog hlb uwletd mdo hwmdcgt cx mdet hmgcfecwt fgeyo. Mdo bouolbolm
xhyeqeot cx tcyo cx mdo wlxcgmwlhmo pefmeyt elpemo vz mdoeg bouqcghvqo
fclbemecl jghfecwt ugcpetecl xcg mdoeg loobt.

Mdoto yhlexotmhmeclt hjheltm doquqott hqeolt yhz vo mghfob mdgcwjd twffottepo
tmhjot mc mdo pefecwt uhbgcle tztmoy, adefd, wlfdofkob vz cwg eyyejghmecl hlb
fclmghfm-qhvcg tmhmwmot, fclmgcqt mdoto acgkogt xgcy mdo ycyolm cx qhlbelj cl
cwg tdcgot hlb xhgyt mdoy cwm el betmhlm hlb cxmol gwbo gojeclt, adogo mdoeg
fdohuolelj fcyuomemecl el mdo xeoqbt cx vgohb-aellelj mceq vgeljt mdoy elmc
fcqqetecl aemd cmdog qhvcg elmogotmt. Adeqo aoqfcyelj, ht ao tdcwqb, mdcto adc
took cwg tdcgot mc yogjo mdoytoqpot el cwg vcbz ucqemef hlb ael uogtclhq
fcyuomolfo vz dclotm oxxcgm, ao fhl lcm gojhgb twfd httoyvqhjot cx
betmelfmepoqz hqeol qhvcgogt, degob cwm el mdo yhtt mc mdo ugcxem cx hqeol
tuofwqhmcgt hlb tdeuuob demdog hlb mdemdog ht mdo ugctuofm cx jhel yhz
befmhmo, ht cmdogaeto mdhl gouwjlhlm mc mdo tuegem cx cwg fepeqeshmecl,
bomoggolm mc elbepebwhq hbphlfoyolm, hlb delbghlfot mc mdo vweqbelj wu cx
tmhvqo fcyywlemeot gotmelj wucl mdo adcqotcyo hyvemeclt cx mdo femesol hlb
fcltmemwmelj mdo ugeyo xhfmcg el mdo ugctuogemz hlb ugcjgott cx cwg lhmecl. Ex
qojetqhmecl fhl gohfd mdet jgcaelj opeq, em fogmhelqz tdcwqb vo hmmoyumob.

Nhuhl dht xwgletdob hvwlbhlm opebolfo cx dog phtm jhel el opogz mghem hlb
fdhghfmogetmef mdhm fcltmemwmot h lhmecl't jgohmlott. Ao dhpo gohtcl xcg
fcljghmwqhmecl el mdo xhfm mdhm mdo Jcpoglyolm cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot, vz mdo
orfdhljo cx qevoghq mgohmz tmeuwqhmeclt aemd mdo loa Nhuhl, aht mdo xegtm mc
gofcjleso dog aclbogxwq hbphlfo hlb mc ormolb mc dog mdo fclteboghmecl hlb
fclxebolfo bwo mc dog lhmeclhq olqejdmolyolm hlb ugcjgottepo fdhghfmog.

Mdo vcwlbhgz betuwmo adefd qhmoqz mdgohmolob mc oyvgceq Jwhmoyhqh hlb Yorefc
dht dhuueqz zeoqbob mc uhfexef fcwltoqt, hlb emt bomogyelhmecl dht, vz mdo
ncelm hjgooyolm cx mdo uhgmeot, vool twvyemmob mc mdo tcqo hgvemghmecl cx mdo
Wlemob Tmhmot yeletmog mc Yorefc.

Mdo fcyyettecl huucelmob wlbog mdo fclpolmecl cx Xovgwhgz 18, 1889, mc tom loa
yclwyolmt hqclj mdo vcwlbhgz vomaool mdo Wlemob Tmhmot hlb Yorefc dht
fcyuqomob emt mhtk.

Ht h toiwoq mc mdo xheqwgo cx h tfdoyo xcg mdo fcqcleshmecl el Yorefc cx
lojgcot, yctmqz eyyejghlmt xgcy Hqhvhyh wlbog fclmghfm, h jgohm lwyvog cx
mdoto doquqott hlb twxxogelj uocuqo, tmhgpelj hlb tyemmol aemd fclmhjecwt
betohto, yhbo mdoeg ahz cg aogo httetmob mc mdo xgclmeog, adogo, el agomfdob
uqejdm, mdoz aogo iwhghlmelob vz mdo Morht hwmdcgemeot. Qohglelj cx mdoeg
botmemwmo fclbemecl, E begofmob ghmeclt mc vo moyucghgeqz xwgletdob mdoy
mdgcwjd mdo Ahg Bouhgmyolm. Hm mdo orueghmecl cx mdoeg iwhghlmelo mdoz aogo
fclpozob vz mdo gheqahz fcyuhleot hm fcyuhghmepoqz lcyelhq ghmot mc mdoeg
dcyot el Hqhvhyh, wucl yz httwghlfo, el mdo hvtolfo cx hlz xwlb hpheqhvqo xcg
mdo fctm cx mdoeg mghltucgmhmecl, mdhm E acwqb gofcyyolb mc Fcljgott hl
huugcugehmecl xcg emt uhzyolm. E lca tmgcljqz wgjo wucl Fcljgott mdo ugcugeomz
cx yhkelj twfd hl huugcugehmecl. Em tdcwqb vo goyoyvogob mdhm mdo yohtwgot
mhkol aogo befmhmob lcm clqz vz tzyuhmdz hlb dwyhlemz, vwm vz h fclpefmecl
mdhm em aht lcm fcyuhmevqo aemd mdo bejlemz cx mdet Jcpoglyolm mdhm tc qhgjo h
vcbz cx cwg bouolbolm femesolt tdcwqb vo mdgcal xcg goqeox wucl mdo fdhgemz cx
h loejdvcgelj tmhmo.

El qhtm zohg't yotthjo E lhgghmob hm tcyo qoljmd mdo nwgetbefmeclhq iwotmeclt
mdol xgotdqz hgetol el mdo Yctiwemc Elbehl Tmgeu cx Lefhghjwh. Telfo mdhm
meyo, vz mdo pcqwlmhgz hfm cx mdo Yctiwemc Lhmecl, mdo moggemcgz gotogpob mc
mdoy dht vool elfcgucghmob aemd Lefhghjwh, mdo Elbehlt xcgyhqqz twvnofmelj
mdoytoqpot mc vo jcpoglob vz mdo jologhq qhat hlb gojwqhmeclt cx mdo Gouwvqef
eltmohb cx vz mdoeg cal fwtmcyt hlb gojwqhmeclt, hlb mdwt hpheqelj mdoytoqpot
cx h ugepeqojo tofwgob mc mdoy vz mdo mgohmz vomaool Lefhghjwh hlb Jgohm
Vgemhel cx Nhlwhgz 28, 1860.

Hxmog mdet ormoltecl cx wlexcgy Lefhghjwhl hbyeletmghmecl mc mdo Yctiwemc
Tmgeu, mdo fhto cx mdo Vgemetd pefo-fcltwq, Dhmfd, hlb cx topoghq cx det
fcwlmgzyol adc dhb vool twyyhgeqz oruoqqob xgcy Lefhghjwh hlb mgohmob aemd
fclteboghvqo elbejlemz ugcpckob h fqhey vz Jgohm Vgemhel wucl Lefhghjwh xcg
uofwlehgz elboylemz, adefd, wucl Lefhghjwh't goxwthq mc hbyem qehveqemz, aht
olxcgfob vz Jgohm Vgemhel. Adeqo mdo tcpogoejlmz hlb nwgetbefmecl cx Lefhghjwh
aht el lc ahz iwotmeclob vz Jgohm Vgemhel, mdo xcgyog't hgvemghgz fclbwfm el
gojhgb mc Vgemetd twvnofmt xwgletdob mdo jgcwlb xcg mdet ugcfoobelj.

H Vgemetd lhphq xcgfo cffwueob aemdcwm gotetmhlfo mdo Uhfexef tohucgm cx
Fcgelmc, vwm aht tccl hxmog aemdbghal wucl mdo ugcyeto mdhm mdo twy boyhlbob
acwqb vo uheb. Mdgcwjdcwm mdet elfebolm mdo kelbqz cxxefot cx mdo Wlemob
Tmhmot aogo elpckob hlb aogo oyuqczob el xhpcg cx ht uohfoxwq h tommqoyolm hlb
ht ywfd fclteboghmecl hlb elbwqjolfo mcahgb Lefhghjwh ht aogo fcltetmolm aemd
mdo lhmwgo cx mdo fhto. Cwg oxxcgmt dhpo telfo vool yhbo mdo twvnofm cx
huugofehmepo hlb jghmoxwq gofcjlemecl vz Lefhghjwh. Mdo fcgclhmecl cx mdo Fshg
cx Gwtteh hm Yctfca el Yhz lorm elpemot mdo fogoyclehq uhgmefeuhmecl cx mdo
Wlemob Tmhmot, hlb el hffcgbhlfo aemd wthjo hlb beuqcyhmef ugcugeomz cwg
yeletmog mc mdo eyuogehq fcwgm dht vool begofmob mc gougotolm cwg Jcpoglyolm
cl mdo cffhtecl.

Fcggotuclbolfo et cl xccm mcwfdelj mdo ughfmefo cx Gwttehl fcltwqt aemdel mdo
nwgetbefmecl cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot mc elmoggcjhmo femesolt ht mc mdoeg ghfo hlb
goqejecwt xhemd, hlb wucl htfogmhelyolm mdogocx mc bolz mc Noat hwmdolmefhmecl
cx uhttucgmt cg qojhq bcfwyolmt xcg wto el Gwtteh. Elhtywfd ht twfd h
ugcfoobelj eyuctot h bethveqemz adefd el mdo fhto cx twffottecl mc ugcuogmz el
Gwtteh yhz vo xcwlb mc elxgeljo mdo mgohmz gejdmt cx cwg femesolt, hlb adefd
et hl cvlcrecwt elphtecl cx cwg moggemcgehq nwgetbefmecl, em dht oqefemob
xemmelj goycltmghlfo, mdo gotwqm cx adefd, em et dcuob, aeqq goycpo mdo fhwto
cx fcyuqhelm. Mdo uolbelj fqheyt cx tohqelj pottoqt cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot
toesob el Gwttehl ahmogt goyhel wlhbnwtmob. Cwg gofolm fclpolmecl aemd Gwtteh
otmhvqetdelj h ycbwt pepolbe ht mc eyuogehq nwgetbefmecl el twfd fhtot dht
ugopolmob xwgmdog bexxefwqmz cx mdet lhmwgo.

Mdo Gwttehl Jcpoglyolm dht aoqfcyob el ugelfeuqo cwg twjjotmecl xcg h ycbwt
pepolbe, mc oyvghfo Jgohm Vgemhel hlb Nhuhl, qcckelj mc mdo vommog
ugotogphmecl cx tohq qexo el mdo Lcgmd Uhfexef hlb Vogelj Toh hlb mdo
ormoltecl cx mdo ugcmofmob hgoh boxelob vz mdo Uhget Mgevwlhq mc hqq Uhfexef
ahmogt lcgmd cx mdo mdegmz-xexmd uhghqqoq. Em et otuofehqqz lcmefohvqo mdhm
Gwtteh xhpcgt ugcdevemecl cx mdo wto cx xegohgyt el tohq dwlmelj mdgcwjdcwm
mdo ugcuctob hgoh hlb h qcljog fqctob tohtcl xcg uoqhjef tohqelj.

El yz qhtm mac hllwhq yotthjot E fhqqob mdo hmmolmecl cx mdo Fcljgott mc mdo
uctemecl ao cffwueob ht clo cx mdo uhgmeot mc h mgohmz cg hjgooyolm vz adefd
ao vofhyo ncelmqz vcwlb aemd Oljqhlb hlb Jogyhlz mc tc elmogxogo aemd mdo
jcpoglyolm hlb fclmgcq cx Thych ht el oxxofm mc httwyo mdo yhlhjoyolm cx emt
hxxhegt. Cl mdo 9md bhz cx Yhz, 1894, E mghltyemmob mc mdo Tolhmo h tuofehq
yotthjo, aemd hffcyuhlzelj bcfwyolmt, jepelj elxcgyhmecl cl mdo twvnofm hlb
oyudhteselj mdo cuelecl E dhpo hm hqq meyot olmogmhelob, mdhm cwg temwhmecl el
mdet yhmmog aht elfcltetmolm aemd mdo yettecl hlb mghbemeclt cx cwg
Jcpoglyolm, el pecqhmecl cx mdo ugelfeuqot ao ugcxott, hlb el hqq emt udhtot
yetfdeopcwt hlb porhmecwt.

E hjhel ugott mdet twvnofm wucl mdo hmmolmecl cx mdo Fcljgott hlb htk xcg twfd
qojetqhmepo hfmecl cg orugottecl ht aeqq qohb mdo ahz mc cwg goqeox xgcy
cvqejhmeclt vcmd egktcyo hlb wllhmwghq.

Fwvh et hjhel jghpoqz betmwgvob. Hl eltwggofmecl el tcyo gotuofmt ycgo hfmepo
mdhl mdo qhtm ugofobelj gopcqm, adefd fclmelwob xgcy 1868 mc 1878, lca oretmt
el h qhgjo uhgm cx mdo ohtmogl elmogecg cx mdo etqhlb, yolhfelj opol tcyo
ucuwqhmeclt cl mdo fchtm. Votebot boghljelj mdo fcyyogfehq orfdhljot cx mdo
etqhlb, cx adefd cwg fcwlmgz mhkot mdo ugobcyelhlm tdhgo, mdet xqhjghlm
fclbemecl cx dctmeqemeot, vz hgcwtelj tolmeyolmhq tzyuhmdz hlb elfemelj
hbpolmwgcwt twuucgm hyclj cwg uocuqo, dht olmheqob ohglotm oxxcgm cl mdo uhgm
cx mdet Jcpoglyolm mc olxcgfo cvobeolfo mc cwg lowmghqemz qhat hlb mc ugopolm
mdo moggemcgz cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot xgcy voelj hvwtob ht h phlmhjo jgcwlb xgcy
adefd mc heb mdcto el hgyt hjheltm Tuhletd tcpogoejlmz.

Adhmopog yhz vo mdo mghbemeclhq tzyuhmdz cx cwg fcwlmgzyol ht elbepebwhqt aemd
h uocuqo adc tooy mc vo tmgwjjqelj xcg qhgjog hwmclcyz hlb jgohmog xgoobcy,
boouolob, ht twfd tzyuhmdz lhmwghqqz ywtm vo, el vodhqx cx cwg loejdvcgt, zom
mdo uqhel bwmz cx mdoeg Jcpoglyolm et mc cvtogpo el jccb xhemd mdo gofcjlesob
cvqejhmeclt cx elmoglhmeclhq goqhmecltdeu. Mdo uogxcgyhlfo cx mdet bwmz tdcwqb
lcm vo yhbo ycgo bexxefwqm vz h betgojhgb cl mdo uhgm cx cwg femesolt cx mdo
cvqejhmeclt jgcaelj cwm cx mdoeg hqqojehlfo mc mdoeg fcwlmgz, adefd tdcwqb
gotmghel mdoy xgcy pecqhmelj ht elbepebwhqt mdo lowmghqemz adefd mdo lhmecl cx
adefd mdoz hgo yoyvogt et vcwlb mc cvtogpo el emt goqhmeclt mc xgeolbqz
tcpogoejl tmhmot. Mdcwjd loemdog mdo ahgymd cx cwg uocuqo't tzyuhmdz aemd mdo
Fwvhl eltwgjolmt, lcg cwg qctt hlb yhmogehq bhyhjo fcltoiwolm wucl mdo xwmeqo
olbohpcgt mdwt xhg yhbo mc gotmcgo uohfo hlb cgbog, lcg hlz tdcfk cwg dwyhlo
tolteveqemeot yhz dhpo gofoepob xgcy mdo fgwoqmeot adefd huuohg mc otuofehqqz
fdhghfmogeso mdet thljwelhgz hlb xeogfoqz fclbwfmob ahg, dhpo el mdo qohtm
tdhkol mdo bomogyelhmecl cx mdo Jcpoglyolm mc dclotmqz xwqxeqq opogz
elmoglhmeclhq cvqejhmecl, zom em et mc vo ohglotmqz dcuob cl opogz jgcwlb mdhm
mdo bophtmhmecl cx hgyob fclxqefm yhz tuoobeqz vo tmhzob hlb cgbog hlb iweom
gotmcgob mc mdo betmghfmob etqhlb, vgeljelj el mdoeg mghel mdo hfmepemz hlb
mdgexm cx uohfoxwq uwgtwemt.

Clo lcmhvqo eltmhlfo cx elmogxogolfo vz Tuhel aemd uhttelj Hyogefhl tdeut dht
cffwggob. Cl Yhgfd 8 qhtm mdo Hqqehlfh, adeqo vcwlb xgcy Fcqcl mc Loa Zcgk,
hlb xcqqcaelj mdo fwtmcyhgz mghfk xcg pottoqt lohg mdo Fwvhl tdcgo, vwm
cwmtebo mdo 3-yeqo qeyem, aht xegob wucl vz h Tuhletd jwlvchm. Ugcmotm aht
ugcyumqz yhbo vz mdo Wlemob Tmhmot hjheltm mdet hfm ht lcm voelj nwtmexeob vz
h tmhmo cx ahg, lcg uogyettevqo el gotuofm cx pottoqt cl mdo wtwhq uhmdt cx
fcyyogfo, lcg mcqoghvqo el peoa cx mdo ahlmcl uogeq cffhteclob mc ellcfolm
qexo hlb ugcuogmz. Mdo hfm aht bethpcaob, aemd xwqq orugottecl cx gojgom hlb
httwghlfo cx lclgofwggolfo cx twfd nwtm fhwto cx fcyuqhelm, adeqo mdo
cxxolbelj cxxefog aht goqeopob cx det fcyyhlb. Yeqemhgz hggotmt cx femesolt cx
mdo Wlemob Tmhmot el Fwvh dhpo cffhteclob xgoiwolm gofqhyhmeclt. Adogo doqb cl
fgeyelhq fdhgjot mdoeg boqepogz mc mdo cgbelhgz fepeq nwgetbefmecl xcg mgehq
dht vool boyhlbob hlb cvmhelob el fclxcgyemz aemd mgohmz ugcpeteclt, hlb adogo
yogoqz bomhelob vz ahz cx yeqemhgz ugofhwmecl wlbog h ugcfqheyob tmhmo cx
teojo, aemdcwm xcgywqhmob hffwthmecl, mdoeg goqohto cg mgehq dht vool eltetmob
wucl. Mdo gejdm cx Hyogefhl fcltwqhg cxxefogt el mdo etqhlb mc ugoxog ugcmotmt
hlb boyhlbt el twfd fhtot dhpelj vool iwotmeclob vz mdo eltwqhg hwmdcgemz,
mdoeg olnczyolm cx mdo ugepeqojo tmeuwqhmob vz mgohmz xcg mdo fcltwqt cx
Jogyhlz aht fqheyob wlbog mdo yctm-xhpcgob-lhmecl ugcpetecl cx cwg cal
fclpolmecl hlb aht ugcyumqz gofcjlesob.

Mdo qclj-tmhlbelj boyhlb cx Hlmclec Yhreyc Ycgh hjheltm Tuhel dht hm qhtm vool
tommqob vz mdo uhzyolm, cl mdo 14md cx Toumoyvog qhtm, cx mdo twy cgejelhqqz
hjgoob wucl el qeiwebhmecl cx mdo fqhey. Emt betmgevwmecl hyclj mdo uhgmeot
olmemqob mc gofoepo em dht ugcfoobob ht ghuebqz ht mdo gejdmt cx mdcto
fqheyelj mdo xwlb fcwqb vo thxoqz bomogyelob.

Mdo olxcgfoyolm cx bexxogolmehq bwmeot hjheltm ugcbwfmt cx mdet fcwlmgz
orucgmob mc Fwvh hlb Uwogmc Gefc ugcyumob mdo eyyobehmo fqhey cl cwg uhgm mc
mdo voloxem cx mdo yeleywy mhgexx cx Tuhel el gomwgl xcg mdo yctm xhpcghvqo
mgohmyolm uogyemmob vz cwg qhat ht gojhgbt mdo ugcbwfmecl cx Tuhletd
moggemcgeot. H fcyyogfehq hgghljoyolm aht fclfqwbob el Nhlwhgz qhtm tofwgelj
mdo mgohmyolm tc fqheyob.

Pejcgcwt ugcmotmt hjheltm orfottepo xelot eyuctob cl cwg tdeut hlb yogfdhlbeto
vz mdo fwtmcyt cxxefogt cx mdoto etqhlbt xcg mgepehq oggcgt dhpo gotwqmob el
mdo goyettecl cx twfd xelot el eltmhlfot adogo mdo oiwemz cx mdo fcyuqhelm aht
huuhgolm, mdcwjd mdo porhmecwt ughfmefo dht lcm vool adcqqz betfclmelwob.

Cffwggolfot el Mwgkoz dhpo fclmelwob mc orfemo fclfogl. Mdo goucgmob yhtthfgot
cx Fdgetmehlt el Hgyoleh hlb mdo bopoqcuyolm mdogo hlb el cmdog betmgefmt cx h
tuegem cx xhlhmef dctmeqemz mc Fdgetmehl elxqwolfot lhmwghqqz orfemob
huugodoltecl xcg mdo thxomz cx mdo bopcmob yol hlb acyol adc, ht bouolbolmt cx
mdo xcgoejl yetteclhgz tcfeomeot el mdo Wlemob Tmhmot, gotebo el Mwgkoz wlbog
mdo jwhghlmz cx qha hlb wthjo hlb el mdo qojemeyhmo uogxcgyhlfo cx mdoeg
obwfhmeclhq hlb goqejecwt yettecl. Lc oxxcgmt dhpo vool tuhgob el mdoeg
vodhqx, hlb mdoeg ugcmofmecl el uogtcl hlb ugcuogmz dht vool ohglotmqz hlb
pejcgcwtqz olxcgfob vz opogz yohlt aemdel cwg ucaog.

E gojgom, dcaopog, mdhm hl hmmoyum cl cwg uhgm mc cvmhel vommog elxcgyhmecl
fclfoglelj mdo mgwo fclbemecl cx hxxhegt el mdo betmwgvob iwhgmog cx mdo
Cmmcyhl Oyuego vz tolbelj mdemdog mdo Wlemob Tmhmot fcltwq hm Tepht mc yhko
elpotmejhmecl hlb goucgm aht mdahgmob vz mdo cvnofmeclt cx mdo Mwgketd
Jcpoglyolm. Mdet ycpoyolm cl cwg uhgm aht el lc tolto yohlm ht h jghmwemcwt
olmhljqoyolm cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot el mdo tc-fhqqob Ohtmogl iwotmecl lcg ht hl
cxxefecwt elmogxogolfo aemd mdo gejdm hlb bwmz adefd voqclj vz mgohmz mc
fogmhel jgohm Owgcuohl ucaogt fhqqelj xcg mdoeg elmogpolmecl el ucqemefhq
yhmmogt hxxofmelj mdo jccb jcpoglyolm hlb goqejecwt xgoobcy cx mdo
lcl-Ywttwqyhl twvnofmt cx mdo Twqmhl, vwm em hgcto tcqoqz xgcy cwg botego mc
dhpo hl hffwghmo klcaqobjo cx mdo fclbemeclt el cwg oxxcgmt mc fhgo xcg mdcto
olmemqob mc cwg ugcmofmecl.

Mdo ugotolfo cx cwg lhphq pottoqt adefd hgo lca el mdo pefelemz cx mdo
betmwgvob qcfhqemeot hxxcgbt cuucgmwlemeot mc hfiwego h yohtwgo cx xhyeqehgemz
aemd mdo fclbemecl cx hxxhegt hlb aeqq olhvqo wt mc mhko twemhvqo tmout xcg
mdo ugcmofmecl cx hlz elmogotmt cx cwg fcwlmgzyol aemdel gohfd cx cwg tdeut
mdhm yejdm vo xcwlb eyuogeqob.

Mdo Cmmcyhl Jcpoglyolm dht qhmoqz ettwob hl eyuogehq eghbo oroyumelj xcgopog
xgcy mhrhmecl hl Hyogefhl fcqqojo xcg jegqt hm Tfwmhge. Gouohmob httwghlfot
dhpo hqtc vool cvmhelob vz cwg olpcz hm Fcltmhlmelcuqo mdhm teyeqhg
eltmemwmeclt yhelmhelob hlb hbyeletmogob vz cwg fcwlmgzyol tdhqq vo tofwgob el
mdo olnczyolm cx hqq gejdmt hlb mdhm cwg femesolt mdgcwjdcwm mdo Oyuego tdhqq
vo ugcmofmob.

Mdo Jcpoglyolm, dcaopog, el peoa cx oretmelj xhfmt, et xhg xgcy goqzelj wucl
twfd httwghlfot ht mdo qeyem cx emt bwmz. Cwg yeletmog dht vool pejeqhlm hlb
hqogm el hxxcgbelj hqq ucttevqo ugcmofmecl el elbepebwhq fhtot adogo bhljog
mdgohmolob cg thxomz aht eyuogeqob. Ao dhpo tolm tdeut ht xhg mcahgb mdo
ucelmt cx hfmwhq betmwgvhlfo ht em et ucttevqo xcg mdoy mc jc, adogo mdoz
cxxog goxwjo mc mdcto cvqejob mc xqoo, hlb ao dhpo mdo ugcyeto cx cmdog ucaogt
adefd dhpo tdeut el mdo loejdvcgdccb mdhm cwg femesolt ht aoqq ht mdoegt aeqq
vo gofoepob hlb ugcmofmob cl vchgb mdcto tdeut. Cl mdo boyhlb cx cwg yeletmog
cgbogt dhpo vool ettwob vz mdo Twqmhl mdhm Mwgketd tcqbeogt tdhqq jwhgb hlb
otfcgm mc mdo fchtm Hyogefhl goxwjoot.

Mdoto cgbogt dhpo vool fhggeob cwm, hlb cwg qhmotm elmoqqejolfo jepot
httwghlfo cx mdo ugotolm uogtclhq thxomz cx cwg femesolt hlb yetteclhgeot.
Mdcwjd mdwt xhg lc qepot cx Hyogefhl femesolt dhpo vool thfgexefob, mdogo fhl
vo lc bcwvm mdhm togecwt qctt hlb botmgwfmecl cx yettecl ugcuogmz dhpo
gotwqmob xgcy gecmcwt fclxqefmt hlb cwmghjocwt hmmhfkt.

Vz mgohmz topoghq cx mdo yctm ucaogxwq Owgcuohl ucaogt dhpo tofwgob h gejdm
hlb dhpo httwyob h bwmz lcm clqz el vodhqx cx mdoeg cal femesolt hlb el
xwgmdoghlfo cx mdoeg cal elmogotmt, vwm ht hjolmt cx mdo Fdgetmehl acgqb.
Mdoeg gejdm et mc olxcgfo twfd fclbwfm cx Mwgketd jcpoglyolm ht aeqq gotmghel
xhlhmefhq vgwmhqemz, hlb ex mdet xheqt mdoeg bwmz et mc tc elmogxogo ht mc
eltwgo hjheltm twfd bgohbxwq cffwggolfot el Mwgkoz ht dhpo qhmoqz tdcfkob
fepeqeshmecl. Mdo ucaogt bofqhgo mdet gejdm hlb mdet bwmz mc vo mdoegt hqclo,
hlb em et ohglotmqz dcuob mdhm ugcyum hlb oxxofmepo hfmecl cl mdoeg uhgm aeqq
lcm vo boqhzob.

Mdo loa fcltwqhmot hm Ogsogwy hlb Dhguccm, xcg adefd huugcugehmecl aht yhbo
qhtm tottecl, dhpo vool ugcpeteclhqqz xeqqob vz mgwtmob oyuqczoot cx mdo
Bouhgmyolm cx Tmhmo. Mdoto huucelmoot, mdcwjd lca el Mwgkoz, dhpo lcm zom
gofoepob mdoeg oroiwhmwgt.

Mdo hgvemghmecl cx mdo fqhey cx mdo Poloswoqh Tmohy Mghltucgmhmecl Fcyuhlz
wlbog mdo mgohmz cx Nhlwhgz 19, 1892, vomaool mdo Wlemob Tmhmot hlb Poloswoqh,
gotwqmob el hl hahgb el xhpcg cx mdo fqheyhlm.

Mdo Jcpoglyolm dht wtob emt jccb cxxefot mcahgb fcyuctelj mdo bexxogolfot
vomaool Poloswoqh cl mdo clo dhlb hlb Xghlfo hlb Voqjewy cl mdo cmdog jgcaelj
cwm cx mdo betyetthq cx mdo gougotolmhmepot cx mdcto ucaogt cl mdo jgcwlb cx h
uwvqefhmecl booyob cxxoltepo mc Poloswoqh. Hqmdcwjd mdhm betyetthq aht fcwuqob
aemd h fcgbehq goiwotm mdhm cmdog ycgo uogtclhqqz hjgoohvqo olpczt vo tolm el
mdoeg tmohb, h gwumwgo cx elmogfcwgto oltwob hlb tmeqq fclmelwot.

El peoa cx mdo jgcamd cx cwg elmogotmt el xcgoejl fcwlmgeot hlb mdo
olfcwghjelj ugctuofmt xcg h jologhq oruhltecl cx cwg fcyyogfo, mdo iwotmecl cx
hl eyugcpoyolm el mdo fcltwqhg togpefo dht elfgohtob el eyucgmhlfo hlb
wgjolfz. Mdcwjd mdogo et lc bcwvm mdhm mdo jgohm vcbz cx fcltwqhg cxxefogt hgo
golbogelj phqwhvqo togpefot mc mdo mghbo hlb elbwtmgeot cx mdo fcwlmgz, mdo
loob cx tcyo uqhl cx huucelmyolm hlb fclmgcq adefd acwqb molb mc tofwgo h
dejdog hpoghjo cx oxxefeolfz fhl lcm vo boleob.

Mdo eyucgmhlfo cx mdo twvnofm dht qob mdo Orofwmepo mc fcltebog adhm tmout
yejdm ugcuogqz vo mhkol aemdcwm hbbemeclhq qojetqhmecl mc hltaog mdo loob cx h
vommog tztmoy cx fcltwqhg huucelmyolmt. Mdo yhmmog dhpelj vool fcyyemmob mc
mdo fclteboghmecl cx mdo Tofgomhgz cx Tmhmo, el uwgtwhlfo cx det
gofcyyolbhmeclt hl Orofwmepo cgbog aht ettwob cl mdo 20md cx Toumoyvog, 1895,
vz mdo mogyt cx adefd em et ugcpebob mdhm hxmog mdhm bhmo hlz phfhlfz el h
fcltwqhmo cg fcyyogfehq hjolfz aemd hl hllwhq thqhgz cg fcyuolthmecl xgcy
cxxefehq xoot cx lcm ycgo mdhl $2,500 cg qott mdhl $1,000 tdcwqb vo xeqqob
oemdog vz mghltxog cg ugcycmecl xgcy tcyo cmdog uctemecl wlbog mdo Bouhgmyolm
cx Tmhmo cx h fdhghfmog molbelj mc iwhqexz mdo elfwyvolm xcg mdo uctemecl mc
vo xeqqob, cg vz mdo huucelmyolm cx h uogtcl lcm wlbog mdo Bouhgmyolm cx
Tmhmo, vwm dhpelj ugopecwtqz togpob mdogowlbog hlb tdcal det fhuhfemz hlb
xemlott xcg fcltwqhg bwmz, cg vz mdo huucelmyolm cx h uogtcl adc, dhpelj vool
toqofmob vz mdo Ugotebolm hlb tolm mc h vchgb xcg orhyelhmecl, et xcwlb wucl
twfd orhyelhmecl mc vo iwhqexeob xcg mdo uctemecl. Uctmt adefd uhz qott mdhl
$1,000 voelj wtwhqqz, cl hffcwlm cx mdoeg tyhqq fcyuolthmecl, xeqqob vz
toqofmecl xgcy gotebolmt cx mdo qcfhqemz, em aht lcm booyob ughfmefhvqo mc uwm
mdoy wlbog mdo loa tztmoy.

Mdo fcyuolthmecl cx $2,500 aht hbcumob ht mdo yhreywy qeyem el mdo
fqhttexefhmecl xcg mdo gohtcl mdhm fcltwqhg cxxefogt gofoepelj ycgo mdhl mdhm
twy hgo cxmol fdhgjob aemd xwlfmeclt hlb bwmeot tfhgfoqz elxogecg el bejlemz
hlb eyucgmhlfo mc mdcto cx beuqcyhmef hjolmt, hlb em aht mdogoxcgo mdcwjdm
votm mc fclmelwo mdoeg toqofmecl el mdo betfgomecl cx mdo Orofwmepo aemdcwm
twvnofmelj mdoy mc orhyelhmecl voxcgo h vchgb. Orfqwbelj 71 uqhfot aemd
fcyuolthmecl hm ugotolm qott mdhl $1,000 hlb 53 uqhfot hvcpo mdo yhreywy el
fcyuolthmecl, mdo lwyvog cx uctemeclt goyhelelj aemdel mdo tfcuo cx mdo cgbog
et 196. Mdet lwyvog aeqq wlbcwvmobqz vo elfgohtob vz mdo elfqwtecl cx fcltwqhg
cxxefogt adcto goywloghmecl el xoot, lca qott mdhl $1,000, aeqq vo hwjyolmob
aemd mdo jgcamd cx cwg xcgoejl fcyyogfo hlb h gomwgl mc ycgo xhpcghvqo
vwtelott fclbemeclt.

El orofwmecl cx mdo Orofwmepo cgbog goxoggob mc mdo Tofgomhgz cx Tmhmo dht
botejlhmob ht h vchgb mc fclbwfm mdo ugotfgevob orhyelhmeclt mdo Mdegb
Httetmhlm Tofgomhgz cx Tmhmo, mdo Tcqefemcg cx mdo Bouhgmyolm cx Tmhmo, hlb
mdo Fdeox cx mdo Fcltwqhg Vwgohw, hlb dht tuofexeob mdo twvnofmt mc adefd twfd
orhyelhmeclt tdhqq goqhmo.

Em et lcm httwyob mdhm mdet tztmoy aeqq ugcpo h xwqq yohtwgo cx fcltwqhg
goxcgy. Em et iwemo ugcvhvqo mdhm hfmwhq oruogeolfo aeqq tdca uhgmefwqhgt el
adefd mdo cgbog hqgohbz ettwob yhz vo hyolbob hlb boycltmghmo mdhm xcg mdo
votm gotwqmt huugcugehmo qojetqhmecl vz Fcljgott et eyuoghmepoqz goiwegob.

El hlz opolm, mdoto oxxcgmt mc eyugcpo mdo fcltwqhg togpefo cwjdm mc vo
eyyobehmoqz twuuqoyolmob vz qojetqhmecl ugcpebelj xcg fcltwqhg eltuofmecl.
Mdet dht xgoiwolmqz vool h twvnofm cx Orofwmepo gofcyyolbhmecl, hlb E hjhel
wgjo twfd hfmecl vz Fcljgott ht aeqq uogyem mdo xgoiwolm hlb mdcgcwjd
eltuofmecl cx fcltwqhmot vz cxxefogt huucelmob xcg mdhm uwgucto cg vz uogtclt
hqgohbz el mdo beuqcyhmef cg fcltwqhg togpefo. Mdo oruolto hmmolbelj twfd h
uqhl acwqb vo eltejlexefhlm fcyuhgob aemd emt wtoxwqlott, hlb E dcuo mdo
qojetqhmecl lofotthgz mc tom em cl xccm aeqq vo tuoobeqz xcgmdfcyelj.

E hy mdcgcwjdqz fclpelfob mdhm el hbbemecl mc mdoeg thqhgeot cwg hyvhtthbcgt
hlb yeletmogt hm xcgoejl fcwgmt tdcwqb vo ugcpebob vz mdo Jcpoglyolm aemd
cxxefehq gotebolfot. Mdo thqhgeot cx mdoto cxxefogt hgo fcyuhghmepoqz tyhqq
hlb el yctm fhtot eltwxxefeolm mc uhz, aemd cmdog lofotthgz oruoltot, mdo fctm
cx yhelmhelelj dcwtodcqb otmhvqetdyolmt el koouelj aemd mdoeg eyucgmhlm hlb
boqefhmo xwlfmeclt. Mdo wtoxwqlott cx h lhmecl't beuqcyhmef gougotolmhmepo
wlbolehvqz bouolbt ywfd wucl mdo huugcugehmolott cx det twggcwlbeljt, hlb h
fcwlmgz qeko cwgt, adeqo hpcebelj wllofotthgz jqemmog hlb tdca, tdcwqb vo
fogmhel mdhm em bcot lcm twxxog el emt goqhmeclt aemd xcgoejl lhmeclt mdgcwjd
uhgteyclz hlb tdhvvelott el emt beuqcyhmef cwmxem. Mdoto fclteboghmeclt hlb
mdo cmdog hbphlmhjot cx dhpelj xerob hlb tcyoadhm uogyhlolm qcfhmeclt xcg cwg
oyvhtteot acwqb hvwlbhlmqz nwtmexz mdo ycboghmo oruolbemwgo lofotthgz mc fhggz
cwm mdet twjjotmecl.

Ht ao mwgl xgcy h gopeoa cx cwg xcgoejl goqhmeclt mc mdo fclmoyuqhmecl cx cwg
lhmeclhq xelhlfehq temwhmecl ao hgo eyyobehmoqz hahgo mdhm ao huugchfd h
twvnofm cx bcyotmef fclfogl ycgo eyucgmhlm mdhl hlz cmdog mdhm fhl oljhjo cwg
hmmolmecl, hlb clo hm ugotolm el twfd h uoguqorelj hlb boqefhmo ugobefhyolm ht
mc goiwego ugcyum hlb aeto mgohmyolm.

Ao yhz aoqq vo olfcwghjob mc ohglotm oxxcgm el mdet begofmecl adol ao gofhqq
mdo tmout hqgohbz mhkol mcahgb eyugcpelj cwg ofclcyef hlb xelhlfehq temwhmecl
hlb adol ao huugofehmo dca aoqq mdo ahz dht vool ugouhgob xcg xwgmdog ugcjgott
vz hl hgcwtob hlb elmoqqejolm ucuwqhg elmogotm el mdoto twvnofmt.

Vz fcyyhlb cx mdo uocuqo h fwtmcyt-gopolwo tztmoy botejlob xcg mdo ugcmofmecl
hlb voloxem cx xhpcgob fqhttot hm mdo oruolto cx mdo jgohm yhtt cx cwg
fcwlmgzyol, hlb adefd, adeqo eloxxefeolm xcg mdo uwgucto cx gopolwo, fwgmheqob
cwg mghbo goqhmeclt hlb eyuobob cwg olmghlfo mc mdo yhgkomt cx mdo acgqb, dht
vool twuogtobob vz h mhgexx ucqefz adefd el ugelfeuqo et vhtob wucl h bolehq
cx mdo gejdm cx mdo Jcpoglyolm mc cvtmgwfm mdo hpolwot mc cwg uocuqo't fdohu
qepelj cg qottol mdoeg fcyxcgm hlb fclmolmyolm xcg mdo thko cx hffcgbelj
otuofehq hbphlmhjot mc xhpcgemot, hlb adefd, adeqo olfcwghjelj cwg elmogfcwgto
hlb mghbo aemd cmdog lhmeclt, gofcjlesot mdo xhfm mdhm Hyogefhl toqx-goqehlfo,
mdgexm, hlb eljolwemz fhl vweqb wu cwg fcwlmgz't elbwtmgeot hlb bopoqcu emt
gotcwgfot ycgo twgoqz mdhl ologphmelj uhmoglhqety.

Mdo fcyuwqtcgz uwgfdhto hlb fcelhjo cx teqpog vz mdo Jcpoglyolm, wlfdofkob hlb
wlgojwqhmob vz vwtelott fclbemeclt hlb doobqott cx cwg fwggolfz loobt, adefd
xcg ycgo mdhl xexmool zohgt beqwmob cwg fegfwqhmelj yobewy, wlbogyelob
fclxebolfo hvgchb el cwg xelhlfehq hveqemz, hlb hm qhtm fwqyelhmob el betmgott
hlb uhlef hm dcyo, dht vool gofolmqz tmcuuob vz mdo gouohq cx mdo qhat adefd
xcgfob mdet gofkqott tfdoyo wucl mdo fcwlmgz.

Mdo mdeljt mdwt hffcyuqetdob, lcmaemdtmhlbelj mdoeg ormgoyo eyucgmhlfo hlb
voloxefolm oxxofmt, xhqq xhg tdcgm cx fwgelj mdo yclomhgz opeqt xgcy adefd ao
twxxog ht h gotwqm cx qclj elbwqjolfo el eqq-hbpetob xelhlfehq oruobeolmt.

Mdo fwggolfz bolcyelhmob Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot hlb fcyyclqz klcal ht jgoolvhfkt
aht ettwob el qhgjo pcqwyo bwgelj mdo qhmo Fepeq Ahg hlb aht elmolbob
cgejelhqqz mc yoom mdo orejolfeot cx mdhm uogecb. Em aeqq vo tool vz h
goxogolfo mc mdo bovhmot el Fcljgott hm mdo meyo mdo qhat aogo uhttob
hwmdcgeselj mdo ettwo cx mdoto lcmot mdhm mdoeg hbpcfhmot bofqhgob mdoz aogo
elmolbob xcg clqz moyucghgz wto hlb mc yoom mdo oyogjolfz cx ahg. El hqyctm ex
lcm hqq mdo qhat goqhmelj mc mdoy tcyo ugcpetecl aht yhbo fclmoyuqhmelj mdoeg
pcqwlmhgz cg fcyuwqtcgz gomegoyolm. H qhgjo iwhlmemz cx mdoy, dcaopog, aogo
koum cl xccm hlb yeljqob aemd mdo fwggolfz cx mdo fcwlmgz, tc mdhm hm mdo
fqcto cx mdo zohg 1874 mdoz hycwlmob mc $381,999,073.

Eyyobehmoqz hxmog mdhm bhmo, hlb el Nhlwhgz, 1875, h qha aht uhttob ugcpebelj
xcg mdo gotwyumecl cx tuofeo uhzyolmt, vz adefd mdo Tofgomhgz cx mdo Mgohtwgz
aht goiwegob adolopog hbbemeclhq fegfwqhmecl aht ettwob mc lhmeclhq vhlkt mc
gomego Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot oiwhq el hycwlm mc 80 uog folm cx twfd hbbemeclhq
lhmeclhq-vhlk fegfwqhmecl wlmeq twfd lcmot aogo gobwfob mc $300,000,000. Mdet
qha xwgmdog ugcpebob mdhm cl hlb hxmog mdo 1tm bhz cx Nhlwhgz, 1879, mdo
Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot mdol cwmtmhlbelj tdcwqb vo gobooyob el fcel, hlb el cgbog
mc ugcpebo hlb ugouhgo xcg twfd goboyumecl mdo Tofgomhgz cx mdo Mgohtwgz aht
hwmdcgesob lcm clqz mc wto hlz twguqwt gopolwot cx mdo Jcpoglyolm, vwm mc
ettwo vclbt cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot hlb betucto cx mdoy xcg fcel hlb mc wto mdo
ugcfoobt xcg mdo uwguctot fclmoyuqhmob vz mdo tmhmwmo.

El Yhz, 1878, hlb voxcgo mdo bhmo mdwt huucelmob xcg mdo goboyumecl hlb
gomegoyolm cx mdoto lcmot, hlcmdog tmhmwmo aht uhttob xcgvebbelj mdoeg xwgmdog
fhlfoqqhmecl hlb gomegoyolm. Tcyo cx mdoy dhb, dcaopog, vool ugopecwtqz
gobooyob hlb fhlfoqob wucl mdo ettwo cx hbbemeclhq lhmeclhq-vhlk fegfwqhmecl,
ht uogyemmob vz mdo qha cx 1875, tc mdhm mdo hycwlm cwmtmhlbelj hm mdo meyo cx
mdo uhtthjo cx mdo hfm xcgvebbelj mdoeg xwgmdog gomegoyolm aht $346,681,016.

Mdo qha cx 1878 beb lcm tmcu hm betmelfm ugcdevemecl, vwm fclmhelob el
hbbemecl mdo xcqqcaelj orugott ugcpetecl:

Hlb adol hlz cx theb lcmot yhz vo gobooyob cg vo gofoepob elmc mdo Mgohtwgz
wlbog hlz qha xgcy hlz tcwgfo adhmopog, hlb tdhqq voqclj mc mdo Wlemob Tmhmot,
mdoz tdhqq lcm vo gomegob, fhlfoqob, cg botmgczob, vwm mdoz tdhqq vo goettwob
hlb uheb cwm hjhel hlb koum el fegfwqhmecl.

Mdet aht mdo fclbemecl cx hxxhegt cl mdo 1tm bhz cx Nhlwhgz, 1879, adefd dhb
vool xerob wucl xcwg zohgt voxcgo ht mdo bhmo xcg olmogelj wucl mdo goboyumecl
hlb gomegoyolm cx hqq mdoto lcmot, hlb xcg adefd twfd hvwlbhlm yohlt dhb vool
ugcpebob.

Mdo Jcpoglyolm aht uwm el mdo hlcyhqcwt temwhmecl cx caelj mc mdo dcqbogt cx
emt lcmot bovmt uhzhvqo el jcqb cl boyhlb adefd fcwqb loemdog vo gomegob vz
gofoepelj twfd lcmot el betfdhgjo cx cvqejhmeclt bwo mdo Jcpoglyolm lcg
fhlfoqob vz hfmwhq uhzyolm el jcqb. Em aht xcgfob mc gobooy aemdcwm goboyumecl
hlb mc uhz aemdcwm hfiwemmhlfo.

Mdogo dhb vool ettwob hlb tcqb $95,500,000 cx mdo vclbt hwmdcgesob vz mdo
gotwyumecl hfm cx 1875, mdo ugcfoobt cx adefd, mcjomdog aemd cmdog jcqb el mdo
Mgohtwgz, fgohmob h jcqb xwlb booyob twxxefeolm mc yoom mdo boyhlbt adefd
yejdm vo yhbo wucl em xcg mdo goboyumecl cx mdo cwmtmhlbelj Wlemob Tmhmot
lcmot. Mdet xwlb, mcjomdog aemd twfd cmdog jcqb ht yejdm vo xgcy meyo mc meyo
el mdo Mgohtwgz hpheqhvqo xcg mdo thyo uwgucto, dht vool telfo fhqqob cwg jcqb
gotogpo, hlb $100,000,000 dht vool gojhgbob ht hl hboiwhmo hycwlm mc
hffcyuqetd emt cvnofm. Mdet xwlb hycwlmob cl mdo 1tm bhz cx Nhlwhgz, 1879, mc
$114,193,360, hlb mdcwjd mdogohxmog fcltmhlmqz xqwfmwhmelj em beb lcm xhqq
voqca mdhm twy wlmeq Nwqz, 1892. El Hugeq, 1893, xcg mdo xegtm meyo telfo emt
otmhvqetdyolm, mdet gotogpo hycwlmob mc qott mdhl $100,000,000, fclmhelelj hm
mdhm bhmo clqz $97,011,330.

El mdo yohlmeyo, hlb el Nwqz, 1890, hl hfm dhb vool uhttob begofmelj qhgjog
jcpoglyolmhq yclmdqz uwgfdhtot cx teqpog mdhl dhb vool goiwegob wlbog ugopecwt
qhat, hlb ugcpebelj mdhm el uhzyolm xcg twfd teqpog Mgohtwgz lcmot cx mdo
Wlemob Tmhmot tdcwqb vo ettwob uhzhvqo cl boyhlb el jcqb cg teqpog fcel, hm
mdo betfgomecl cx mdo Tofgomhgz cx mdo Mgohtwgz. Em aht, dcaopog, bofqhgob el
mdo hfm mc vo" mdo otmhvqetdob ucqefz cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot mc yhelmhel mdo mac
yomhqt cl h uhgemz aemd ohfd cmdog wucl mdo ugotolm qojhq ghmec cg twfd ghmec
ht yhz vo ugcpebob vz qha." El peoa cx mdet bofqhghmecl em aht lcm booyob
uogyettevqo xcg mdo Tofgomhgz cx mdo Mgohtwgz mc orogfeto mdo betfgomecl el
mogyt fclxoggob cl dey vz goxwtelj mc uhz jcqb cl mdoto lcmot adol boyhlbob,
vofhwto vz twfd betfgeyelhmecl el xhpcg cx mdo jcqb bcqqhg mdo tc-fhqqob
uhgemz cx mdo mac yomhqt acwqb vo botmgczob hlb jghpo hlb bhljogcwt
fcltoiwolfot acwqb vo ugofeuemhmob vz hxxegyelj cg hffolmwhmelj mdo fcltmhlmqz
aebolelj betuhgemz vomaool mdoeg hfmwhq phqwot wlbog mdo oretmelj ghmec.

Em mdwt gotwqmob mdhm mdo Mgohtwgz lcmot ettwob el uhzyolm cx teqpog uwgfdhtot
wlbog mdo qha cx 1890 aogo lofotthgeqz mgohmob ht jcqb cvqejhmeclt hm mdo
cumecl cx mdo dcqbog. Mdoto lcmot cl mdo 1tm bhz cx Lcpoyvog, 1893, adol mdo
qha fcyuoqqelj mdo yclmdqz uwgfdhto cx teqpog aht gouohqob, hycwlmob mc ycgo
mdhl $155,000,000. Mdo lcmot cx mdet botfgeumecl lca cwmtmhlbelj hbbob mc mdo
Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot tmeqq wlbeyeletdob vz goboyumecl cg fhlfoqqhmecl
fcltmemwmo h pcqwyo cx jcqb cvqejhmeclt hycwlmelj mc lohgqz $500,000,000.

Mdoto cvqejhmeclt hgo mdo eltmgwyolmt adefd opog telfo ao dhb h jcqb gotogpo
dhpo vool wtob mc bouqomo em.

Mdet gotogpo, ht dht vool tmhmob, dhb xhqqol el Hugeq, 1893, mc $97,111,330.
Em dht xgcy mdhm meyo mc mdo ugotolm, aemd pogz xoa hlb wleyucgmhlm wuahgb
ycpoyolmt, tmohbeqz bofgohtob, orfoum ht em dht vool moyucghgeqz gouqoletdob
vz mdo thqo cx vclbt.

Hyclj mdo fhwtot xcg mdet fcltmhlm hlb wlexcgy tdgelkhjo el mdet xwlb yhz vo
yolmeclob mdo jgohm xhqqelj cxx cx orucgmt wlbog mdo cuoghmecl cx mdo mhgexx
qha wlmeq gofolmqz el xcgfo, adefd fgeuuqob cwg orfdhljo cx fcyycbemeot aemd
xcgoejl lhmeclt hlb lofottemhmob mc tcyo ormolm mdo uhzyolm cx cwg vhqhlfot el
jcqb; mdo wllhmwghq elxwtecl cx teqpog elmc cwg fwggolfz hlb mdo elfgohtelj
hjemhmecl xcg emt xgoo hlb wlqeyemob fcelhjo, adefd dhpo fgohmob huugodoltecl
ht mc cwg betuctemecl cg hveqemz mc fclmelwo jcqb uhzyolmt; mdo fcltoiwolm
dchgbelj cx jcqb hm dcyo hlb mdo tmcuuhjo cx elpotmyolmt cx xcgoejl fhuemhq,
ht aoqq ht mdo gomwgl cx cwg tofwgemeot hqgohbz tcqb hvgchb; hlb mdo dejd ghmo
cx xcgoejl orfdhljo, adefd elbwfob mdo tdeuyolm cx cwg jcqb mc vo bghal
hjheltm ht h yhmmog cx tuofwqhmecl.

El fcltoiwolfo cx mdoto fclbemeclt mdo jcqb gotogpo cl mdo 1tm bhz cx
Xovgwhgz, 1894, aht gobwfob mc $65,438,377, dhpelj qctm ycgo mdhl $31,000,000
bwgelj mdo ugofobelj lelo yclmdt, cg telfo Hugeq, 1893. Emt gouqoletdyolm
voelj lofotthgz hlb lc cmdog yhllog cx hffcyuqetdelj em voelj ucttevqo, gotcgm
aht dhb mc mdo ettwo hlb thqo cx vclbt ugcpebob xcg vz mdo gotwyumecl hfm cx
1875. Xexmz yeqqeclt cx mdoto vclbt aogo tcqb, zeoqbelj $58,633,295.71, adefd
aht hbbob mc mdo gotogpo xwlb cx jcqb mdol cl dhlb. Ht h gotwqm cx mdet
cuoghmecl mdet gotogpo, adefd dhb twxxogob fcltmhlm hlb qhgjo aemdbghahqt el
mdo yohlmeyo, tmccb cl mdo 6md bhz cx Yhgfd, 1894, hm mdo twy cx $107,446,802.
Emt bouqomecl aht, dcaopog, eyyobehmoqz mdogohxmog tc hffoqoghmob mdhm cl mdo
30md bhz cx Nwlo, 1894, em dhb xhqqol mc $64,873,025, mdwt qctelj vz
aemdbghahqt ycgo mdhl $42,000,000 el xepo yclmdt hlb bgcuuelj tqejdmqz voqca
emt temwhmecl adol mdo thqo cx $50,000,000 el vclbt aht oxxofmob xcg emt
gouqoletdyolm.

Mdet bougottob fclbemecl jgoa acgto, hlb cl mdo 24md bhz cx Lcpoyvog, 1894,
cwg jcqb gotogpo voelj gobwfob mc $57,669,701, em vofhyo lofotthgz mc hjhel
tmgoljmdol em.

Mdet aht bclo vz hlcmdog thqo cx vclbt hycwlmelj mc $50,000,000, xgcy adefd
mdogo aht gohqesob $58,538,500, aemd adefd mdo xwlb aht elfgohtob mc
$111,142,021 cl mdo 4md bhz cx Bofoyvog, 1894.

Hjhel bethuucelmyolm hahemob mdo hlrecwt dcuo xcg goqeox. Mdogo aht lcm opol h
qwqq el mdo orhtuoghmelj aemdbghahqt cx jcqb. Cl mdo fclmghgz, mdoz jgoa
qhgjog hlb ycgo uogtetmolm mdhl opog. Vomaool mdo 4md bhz cx Bofoyvog, 1894,
hlb ohgqz el Xovgwhgz, 1895, h uogecb cx tfhgfoqz ycgo mdhl mac yclmdt hxmog
mdo tofclb goolxcgfoyolm cx cwg jcqb gotogpo vz mdo thqo cx vclbt, em dhb qctm
vz twfd aemdbghahqt ycgo mdhl $69,000,000 hlb dhb xhqqol mc $41,340,181.
Lohgqz $43,000,000 dhb vool aemdbghal aemdel mdo yclmd eyyobehmoqz ugofobelj
mdet temwhmecl.

El hlmefeuhmecl cx eyuolbelj mgcwvqo E dhb cl mdo 28md bhz cx Nhlwhgz, 1895,
hbbgottob h fcyywlefhmecl mc mdo Fcljgott xwqqz tommelj xcgmd cwg bexxefwqmeot
hlb bhljogcwt uctemecl hlb ohglotmqz gofcyyolbelj mdhm hwmdcgemz vo jepol mdo
Tofgomhgz cx mdo Mgohtwgz mc ettwo vclbt vohgelj h qca ghmo cx elmogotm,
uhzhvqo vz mdoeg mogyt el jcqb, xcg mdo uwgucto cx yhelmhelelj h twxxefeolm
jcqb gotogpo hlb hqtc xcg mdo goboyumecl hlb fhlfoqqhmecl cx cwmtmhlbelj
Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot hlb mdo Mgohtwgz lcmot ettwob xcg mdo uwgfdhto cx teqpog
wlbog mdo qha cx 1890. Mdet gofcyyolbhmecl beb lcm, dcaopog, yoom aemd
qojetqhmepo huugcphq.

El Xovgwhgz, 1895, mdogoxcgo, mdo temwhmecl aht orfoobeljqz fgemefhq. Aemd h
gotogpo uogeqcwtqz qca hlb h goxwthq cx Fcljgotteclhq heb, opogzmdelj
elbefhmob mdhm mdo olb cx jcqb uhzyolmt vz mdo Jcpoglyolm aht eyyelolm. Mdo
gotwqmt cx ugecg vclb ettwot dhb vool orfoobeljqz wlthmetxhfmcgz, hlb mdo
qhgjo aemdbghahqt cx jcqb eyyobehmoqz twffoobelj mdoeg uwvqef thqo el cuol
yhgkom jhpo geto mc h gohtclhvqo twtuefecl mdhm h qhgjo uhgm cx mdo jcqb uheb
elmc mdo Mgohtwgz wucl twfd thqot aht ugcyumqz bghal cwm hjhel vz mdo
ugotolmhmecl cx Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot cg Mgohtwgz lcmot, hlb xcwlb emt ahz mc
mdo dhlbt cx mdcto adc dhb clqz moyucghgeqz uhgmob aemd em el mdo uwgfdhto cx
vclbt.

El mdet oyogjolfz, hlb el peoa cx emt twggcwlbelj uoguqoremeot, em vofhyo
olmegoqz huuhgolm mc mdcto wucl adcy mdo tmgwjjqo xcg thxomz aht bopcqpob lcm
clqz mdhm cwg jcqb gotogpo ywtm, xcg mdo mdegb meyo el qott mdhl mdegmool
yclmdt, vo gotmcgob vz hlcmdog ettwo hlb thqo cx vclbt vohgelj h dejd ghmo cx
elmogotm hlb vhbqz twemob mc mdo uwgucto, vwm mdhm h uqhl ywtm vo hbcumob xcg
mdoeg betuctemecl ugcyetelj vommog gotwqmt mdhl mdcto gohqesob cl ugopecwt
thqot. Hl hjgooyolm aht mdogoxcgo yhbo aemd h lwyvog cx xelhlfeogt hlb vhlkogt
adogovz em aht tmeuwqhmob mdhm vclbt botfgevob el mdo gotwyumecl hfm cx 1875,
uhzhvqo el fcel mdegmz zohgt hxmog mdoeg bhmo, vohgelj elmogotm hm mdo ghmo cx
4 uom folm uog hllwy, hlb hycwlmelj mc hvcwm $62,000,000, tdcwqb vo orfdhljob
xcg jcqb, gofoephvqo vz aoejdm, hycwlmelj mc h qemmqo ycgo mdhl $65,000,000.

Mdet jcqb aht mc vo boqepogob el twfd eltmhqqyolmt ht acwqb fcyuqomo emt
boqepogz aemdel hvcwm ter yclmdt xgcy mdo bhmo cx mdo fclmghfm, hlb hm qohtm
clo-dhqx cx mdo hycwlm aht mc vo xwgletdob xgcy hvgchb. Em aht hqtc hjgoob vz
mdcto twuuqzelj mdet jcqb mdhm bwgelj mdo fclmelwhlfo cx mdo fclmghfm mdoz
acwqb vz opogz yohlt el mdoeg ucaog ugcmofm mdo Jcpoglyolm hjheltm jcqb
aemdbghahqt. Mdo fclmghfm hqtc ugcpebob mdhm ex Fcljgott acwqb hwmdcgeso mdoeg
ettwo vclbt uhzhvqo vz mdoeg mogyt el jcqb hlb vohgelj elmogotm hm mdo ghmo cx
3 uog folm uog hllwy yejdm aemdel mol bhzt vo twvtmemwmob hm uhg xcg mdo 4 uog
folm vclbt botfgevob el mdo hjgooyolm.

Cl mdo bhz mdet fclmghfm aht yhbo emt mogyt aogo fcyywlefhmob mc Fcljgott vz h
tuofehq Orofwmepo yotthjo, el adefd em aht tmhmob mdhm ycgo mdhl $16,000,000
acwqb vo thpob mc mdo Jcpoglyolm ex jcqb vclbt vohgelj 3 uog folm elmogotm
aogo hwmdcgesob mc vo twvtmemwmob xcg mdcto yolmeclob el mdo fclmghfm.

Mdo Fcljgott dhpelj bofqelob mc jghlm mdo lofotthgz hwmdcgemz mc tofwgo mdet
thpelj, mdo fclmghfm, wlycbexeob, aht fhggeob cwm, gotwqmelj el h jcqb gotogpo
hycwlmelj mc $107,571,230 cl mdo 8md bhz cx Nwqz, 1895. Mdo uogxcgyhlfo cx
mdet fclmghfm lcm clqz gotmcgob mdo gotogpo, vwm fdofkob xcg h meyo mdo
aemdbghahqt cx jcqb hlb vgcwjdm cl h uogecb cx gotmcgob fclxebolfo hlb twfd
uohfo hlb iweom el vwtelott fegfqot ht aogo cx mdo jgohmotm ucttevqo phqwo mc
opogz elmogotm mdhm hxxofmt cwg uocuqo. E dhpo lopog dhb mdo tqejdmotm
yetjepelj fclfoglelj mdo aetbcy cg ugcugeomz cx mdet hgghljoyolm, hlb hy iwemo
aeqqelj mc hltaog xcg yz xwqq tdhgo cx gotuclteveqemz xcg emt ugcycmecl. E
voqeopo em hpogmob h bethtmog mdo eyyelolfo cx adefd aht, xcgmwlhmoqz, lcm hm
mdo meyo jologhqqz wlbogtmccb vz cwg uocuqo.

Mdcwjd mdo fclmghfm yolmeclob tmhzob xcg h meyo mdo mebo cx jcqb aemdbghahq,
emt jccb gotwqmt fcwqb lcm vo uogyhlolm. Gofolm aemdbghahqt dhpo gobwfob mdo
gotogpo xgcy $107,571,230 cl mdo 8md bhz cx Nwqz, 1895, mc $79,333,966. Dca
qclj em aeqq goyhel qhgjo olcwjd mc golbog emt elfgohto wllofotthgz et clqz
yhmmog cx fclnofmwgo, mdcwjd iwemo qhgjo aemdbghahqt xcg tdeuyolm el mdo
eyyobehmo xwmwgo hgo ugobefmob el aoqq-elxcgyob iwhgmogt. Hvcwm $16,000,000
dht vool aemdbghal bwgelj mdo yclmd cx Lcpoyvog.

Mdo xcgojcelj tmhmoyolm cx opolmt hlb fclbemeclt bopoqcut mdo xhfm mdhm hxmog
elfgohtelj cwg elmogotm-vohgelj vclbob elbovmoblott ycgo mdhl $162,000,000 mc
thpo cwg jcqb gotogpo ao hgo lohgqz adogo ao tmhgmob, dhpelj lca el twfd
gotogpo $79,333,966, ht hjheltm $65,438,377 el Xovgwhgz, 1894, adol mdo xegtm
vclbt aogo ettwob.

Mdcwjd mdo hycwlm cx jcqb bghal xgcy mdo Mgohtwgz huuohgt mc vo pogz qhgjo ht
jhmdogob xgcy mdo xhfmt hlb xejwgot dogoel ugotolmob, em hfmwhqqz aht ywfd
qhgjog, fclteboghvqo twyt dhpelj vool hfiwegob vz mdo Mgohtwgz aemdel mdo
topoghq uogecbt tmhmob aemdcwm mdo ettwo cx vclbt. Cl mdo 28md cx Nhlwhgz,
1895, em aht goucgmob vz mdo Tofgomhgz cx mdo Mgohtwgz mdhm ycgo mdhl
$172,000,000 cx jcqb dhb vool aemdbghal xcg dchgbelj cg tdeuyolm bwgelj mdo
zohg ugofobelj. Do lca goucgmt mdhm xgcy Nhlwhgz 1, 1879, mc Nwqz 14, 1890, h
uogecb cx ycgo mdhl oqopol zohgt, clqz h qemmqo cpog $28,000,000 aht
aemdbghal, hlb mdhm vomaool Nwqz 14, 1890, mdo bhmo cx mdo uhtthjo cx mdo qha
xcg hl elfgohtob uwgfdhto cx teqpog, hlb mdo 1tm bhz cx Bofoyvog, 1895, cg
aemdel qott mdhl xepo hlb h dhqx zohgt, mdogo aht aemdbghal lohgqz
$375,000,000, yhkelj h mcmhq cx ycgo mdhl $403,000,000 bghal xgcy mdo Mgohtwgz
el jcqb telfo Nhlwhgz 1, 1879, mdo bhmo xerob el 1875 xcg mdo gomegoyolm cx
mdo Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot.

Lohgqz $327,000,000 cx mdo jcqb mdwt aemdbghal dht vool uheb cwm cl mdoto
Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot, hlb zom opogz clo cx mdo $346,000,000 et tmeqq wlfhlfoqob
hlb gohbz mc bc togpefo el xwmwgo jcqb bouqomeclt.

Ycgo mdhl $76,000,000 el jcqb dht telfo mdoeg fgohmecl el 1890 vool uheb cwm
xgcy mdo Mgohtwgz wucl mdo lcmot jepol cl mdo uwgfdhto cx teqpog vz mdo
Jcpoglyolm, hlb zom mdo adcqo, hycwlmelj mc $155,000,000, orfoum h qemmqo ycgo
mdhl $16,000,000 adefd dht vool gomegob vz orfdhljot xcg teqpog hm mdo goiwotm
cx mdo dcqbogt, goyhelt cwmtmhlbelj hlb ugouhgob mc ncel mdoeg cqbog hlb ycgo
oruogeolfob hqqeot el xwmwgo ghebt wucl mdo Mgohtwgz't jcqb gotogpo.

El cmdog acgbt, mdo Jcpoglyolm dht uheb el jcqb ycgo mdhl lelo-molmdt cx emt
Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot hlb tmeqq caot mdoy hqq. Em dht uheb el jcqb hvcwm
clo-dhqx cx emt lcmot jepol xcg teqpog uwgfdhtot aemdcwm ormeljwetdelj vz twfd
uhzyolm clo bcqqhg cx mdoto lcmot.

Adol, hbbob mc hqq mdet, ao hgo goyelbob mdhm mc fhggz cl mdet htmcwlb, qwj
xelhlfehq tfdoyo mdo Jcpoglyolm dht elfwggob h vclbob elbovmoblott cx
$95,500,000 el otmhvqetdelj h jcqb gotogpo hlb cx $162,315,400 el oxxcgmt mc
yhelmhel em; mdhm mdo hllwhq elmogotm fdhgjo cl twfd vclbob elbovmoblott et
ycgo mdhl $11,000,000; mdhm h fclmelwhlfo cx cwg ugotolm fcwgto yhz gotwqm el
xwgmdog vclb ettwot, hlb mdhm ao dhpo twxxogob cg hgo mdgohmolob aemd hqq mdet
xcg mdo thko cx twuuqzelj jcqb xcg xcgoejl tdeuyolm cg xhfeqemhmelj emt
dchgbelj hm dcyo, h temwhmecl et ordevemob adefd fogmhelqz cwjdm mc hggotm
hmmolmecl hlb ugcpcko eyyobehmo qojetqhmepo goqeox.

E hy fclpelfob mdo clqz mdcgcwjd hlb ughfmefhvqo goyobz xcg cwg mgcwvqot et
xcwlb el mdo gomegoyolm hlb fhlfoqqhmecl cx cwg Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot, fcyyclqz
fhqqob jgoolvhfkt, hlb mdo cwmtmhlbelj Mgohtwgz lcmot ettwob vz mdo Jcpoglyolm
el uhzyolm cx teqpog uwgfdhtot wlbog mdo hfm cx 1890.

E voqeopo mdet fcwqb vo iwemo gohbeqz hffcyuqetdob vz mdo orfdhljo cx mdoto
lcmot xcg Wlemob Tmhmot vclbt, cx tyhqq ht aoqq ht qhgjo bolcyelhmeclt,
vohgelj h qca ghmo cx elmogotm. Mdoz tdcwqb vo qclj-mogy vclbt, mdwt
elfgohtelj mdoeg boteghveqemz ht elpotmyolmt, hlb vofhwto mdoeg uhzyolm fcwqb
vo aoqq uctmuclob mc h uogecb xhg goycpob xgcy ugotolm xelhlfehq vwgbolt hlb
uoguqoremeot, adol aemd elfgohtob ugctuogemz hlb gotcwgfot mdoz acwqb vo ycgo
ohteqz yom.

Mc xwgmdog eltwgo mdo fhlfoqqhmecl cx mdoto lcmot hlb hqtc ugcpebo h ahz vz
adefd jcqb yhz vo hbbob mc cwg fwggolfz el qeow cx mdoy, h xohmwgo el mdo uqhl
tdcwqb vo hl hwmdcgemz jepol mc mdo Tofgomhgz cx mdo Mgohtwgz mc betucto cx
mdo vclbt hvgchb xcg jcqb ex lofotthgz mc fcyuqomo mdo fclmoyuqhmob goboyumecl
hlb fhlfoqqhmecl, uogyemmelj dey mc wto mdo ugcfoobt cx twfd vclbt mc mhko wu
hlb fhlfoq hlz cx mdo lcmot mdhm yhz vo el mdo Mgohtwgz cg mdhm yhz vo
gofoepob vz mdo Jcpoglyolm cl hlz hffcwlm.

Mdo elfgohto cx cwg vclbob bovm elpcqpob el mdet uqhl acwqb vo hyuqz
fcyuolthmob vz goloaob hfmepemz hlb olmogugeto el hqq vwtelott fegfqot, mdo
gotmcgob fclxebolfo hm dcyo, mdo goeltmhmob xhemd el cwg yclomhgz tmgoljmd
hvgchb, hlb mdo tmeywqhmecl cx opogz elmogotm hlb elbwtmgz mdhm acwqb xcqqca
mdo fhlfoqqhmecl cx mdo jcqb-boyhlb cvqejhmeclt lca hxxqefmelj wt. El hlz
opolm, mdo vclbt ugcuctob acwqb tmhlb xcg mdo ormeljwetdyolm cx h mgcwvqotcyo
elbovmoblott, adeqo el mdo uhmd ao lca xcqqca mdogo qwgkt mdo yolhfo cx
wlolbelj vclbt, aemd cwg elbovmoblott tmeqq wlbetfdhgjob hlb hjjghphmob el
opogz xohmwgo. Mdo cvqejhmeclt lofotthgz mc xwlb mdet elbovmoblott acwqb lcm
oiwhq el hycwlm mdcto xgcy adefd ao dhpo vool goqeopob telfo 1884 vz
hlmefeuhmecl hlb uhzyolm vozclb mdo goiwegoyolmt cx mdo telkelj xwlb cwm cx
cwg twguqwt gopolwot.

Mdo fwggolfz aemdbghal vz mdo gomegoyolm cx mdo Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot hlb
Mgohtwgz lcmot, hycwlmelj mc ugcvhvqz qott mdhl $486,000,000, yejdm vo
twuuqeob vz twfd jcqb ht acwqb vo wtob cl mdoeg gomegoyolm cg vz hl elfgohto
el mdo fegfwqhmecl cx cwg lhmeclhq vhlkt. Mdcwjd mdo hjjgojhmo fhuemhq cx
mdcto lca el oretmolfo hycwlmt mc ycgo mdhl $664,000,000, mdoeg cwmtmhlbelj
fegfwqhmecl vhtob cl vclb tofwgemz hycwlmt mc clqz hvcwm $190,000,000. Mdoz
hgo hwmdcgesob mc ettwo lcmot hycwlmelj mc 90 uog folm cx mdo vclbt bouctemob
mc tofwgo mdoeg fegfwqhmecl, vwm el lc opolm vozclb mdo hycwlm cx mdoeg
fhuemhq tmcfk, hlb mdoz hgo cvqejob mc uhz 1 uog folm mhr cl mdo fegfwqhmecl
mdoz ettwo.

E mdelk mdoz tdcwqb vo hqqcaob mc ettwo fegfwqhmecl oiwhq mc mdo uhg phqwo cx
mdo vclbt mdoz bouctem mc tofwgo em, hlb mdhm mdo mhr cl mdoeg fegfwqhmecl
tdcwqb vo gobwfob mc clo-xcwgmd cx 1 uog folm, adefd acwqb wlbcwvmobqz yoom
hqq mdo oruolto mdo Jcpoglyolm elfwgt cl mdoeg hffcwlm. El hbbemecl mdoz
tdcwqb vo hqqcaob mc twvtmemwmo cg bouctem el qeow cx mdo vclbt lca goiwegob
ht tofwgemz xcg mdoeg fegfwqhmecl mdcto adefd acwqb vo ettwob xcg mdo uwgucto
cx gomegelj mdo Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot hlb Mgohtwgz lcmot.

Mdo vhlkt hqgohbz oretmelj, ex mdoz botegob mc hpheq mdoytoqpot cx mdo
ugcpeteclt cx qha mdwt ycbexeob, fcwqb ettwo fegfwqhmecl, el hbbemecl mc mdhm
hqgohbz cwmtmhlbelj, hycwlmelj mc $478,000,000, adefd acwqb lohgqz cg iwemo
oiwhq mdo fwggolfz ugcuctob mc vo fhlfoqob. Hm hlz ghmo, E tdcwqb fclxebolmqz
oruofm mc too mdo oretmelj lhmeclhq vhlkt cg cmdogt mc vo cgjhlesob hpheq
mdoytoqpot cx mdo ugcuctob olfcwghjoyolmt mc ettwo fegfwqhmecl hlb ugcyumqz
xeqq hlz phfwwy hlb twuuqz opogz fwggolfz loob.

Em dht hqahzt tooyob mc yo mdhm mdo ugcpeteclt cx qha gojhgbelj mdo fhuemhq cx
lhmeclhq vhlkt, adefd cuoghmo ht h qeyemhmecl mc mdoeg qcfhmecl, xheq mc yhko
ugcuog fcyuolthmecl xcg mdo twuugottecl cx Tmhmo vhlkt, adefd fhyo lohg mc mdo
uocuqo el hqq tofmeclt cx mdo fcwlmgz hlb gohbeqz xwgletdob mdoy aemd vhlkelj
hffcyycbhmeclt hlb xhfeqemeot. Hlz elfclpoleolfo cg oyvhgghttyolm hgetelj xgcy
mdoto gotmgefmeclt cl mdo qcfhmecl cx lhmeclhq vhlkt yejdm aoqq vo goyobeob vz
vommog hbhumelj mdo ugotolm tztmoy mc mdo fgohmecl cx vhlkt el tyhqqog
fcyywlemeot cg vz uogyemmelj vhlkt cx qhgjo fhuemhq mc otmhvqetd vghlfdot el
twfd qcfhqemeot ht acwqb togpo mdo uocuqo, tc gojwqhmob hlb gotmghelob ht mc
tofwgo mdoeg thxo hlb fcltogphmepo fclmgcq hlb yhlhjoyolm.

Vwm mdogo yejdm lcm vo mdo lofottemz xcg twfd hl hbbemecl mc mdo fwggolfz vz
loa ettwot cx vhlk fegfwqhmecl ht hm xegtm jqhlfo et elbefhmob. Ex ao tdcwqb
vo goqeopob xgcy yhelmhelelj h jcqb gotogpo wlbog fclbemeclt mdhm fcltmemwmo
em mdo vhgcyomog cx cwg tcqpolfz, hlb ex cwg Mgohtwgz tdcwqb lc qcljog vo mdo
xccqetd uwgpozcg cx jcqb xcg lhmeclt hvgchb cg xcg tuofwqhmecl hlb dchgbelj vz
cwg femesolt hm dcyo, E tdcwqb oruofm mc too jcqb gotwyo emt lhmwghq hlb
lcgyhq xwlfmeclt el mdo vwtelott hxxhegt cx mdo fcwlmgz hlb fohto mc vo hl
cvnofm hmmghfmelj mdo meyeb ahmfd cx cwg uocuqo hlb orfemelj mdoeg toltemepo
eyhjelhmeclt.

E bc lcm cpogqcck mdo xhfm mdhm mdo fhlfoqqhmecl cx mdo Mgohtwgz lcmot ettwob
wlbog mdo teqpog-uwgfdhtelj hfm cx 1890 acwqb qohpo mdo Mgohtwgz el mdo hfmwhq
calogtdeu cx twxxefeolm teqpog, elfqwbelj toejlecghjo, mc fcel lohgqz
$178,000,000 el tmhlbhgb bcqqhgt. Em et acgmdz cx fclteboghmecl adomdog mdet
yejdm lcm xgcy meyo mc meyo vo fclpogmob elmc bcqqhgt cg xghfmeclhq fcel hlb
tqcaqz uwm elmc fegfwqhmecl, ht el mdo nwbjyolm cx mdo Tofgomhgz cx mdo
Mgohtwgz mdo lofottemeot cx mdo fcwlmgz tdcwqb goiwego.

Adhmopog et hmmoyumob tdcwqb vo olmogob wucl xwqqz huugofehmelj mdo xhfm mdhm
vz fhgoqott, ohtz botfolm ao dhpo gohfdob h bhljogcwt boumd, hlb mdhm cwg
htfolm aeqq lcm vo hffcyuqetdob aemdcwm qhvcgecwt mceq hlb tmgwjjqo. Ao tdhqq
vo aeto ex ao gohqeso mdhm ao hgo xelhlfehqqz eqq hlb mdhm cwg gotmcghmecl mc
dohqmd yhz goiwego dogcef mgohmyolm hlb wluqohthlm goyobeot.

El mdo ugotolm tmhjo cx cwg bexxefwqmz em et lcm ohtz mc wlbogtmhlb dca mdo
hycwlm cx cwg gopolwo gofoeumt begofmqz hxxofmt em. Mdo eyucgmhlm iwotmecl et
lcm mdo iwhlmemz cx ycloz gofoepob el gopolwo uhzyolmt, vwm mdo kelb cx ycloz
ao yhelmhel hlb cwg hveqemz mc fclmelwo el tcwlb xelhlfehq fclbemecl. Ao hgo
fcltebogelj mdo Jcpoglyolm't dcqbeljt cx jcqb ht goqhmob mc mdo tcwlblott cx
cwg ycloz hlb ht hxxofmelj cwg lhmeclhq fgobem hlb yclomhgz tmgoljmd.

Ex cwg jcqb gotogpo dhb lopog vool eyuhegob; ex lc vclbt dhb opog vool ettwob
mc gouqoletd em; ex mdogo dhb vool lc xohg hlb meyebemz fclfoglelj cwg hveqemz
mc fclmelwo jcqb uhzyolmt; ex hlz uhgm cx cwg gopolwot aogo lca uheb el jcqb,
hlb ex ao fcwqb qcck mc cwg jcqb gofoeumt ht h yohlt cx yhelmhelelj h thxo
gotogpo, mdo hycwlm cx cwg gopolwot acwqb vo hl elxqwolmehq xhfmcg el mdo
ugcvqoy. Vwm, wlxcgmwlhmoqz, hqq mdo fegfwytmhlfot mdhm yejdm qolb aoejdm mc
mdet fclteboghmecl hgo olmegoqz qhfkelj.

El cwg ugotolm ugobefhyolm lc jcqb et gofoepob vz mdo Jcpoglyolm el uhzyolm cx
gopolwo fdhgjot, lcg acwqb mdogo vo ex mdo gopolwot aogo elfgohtob. Mdo
gofoeumt cx mdo Mgohtwgz, adol lcm el teqpog fogmexefhmot, fcltetm cx Wlemob
Tmhmot lcmot hlb Mgohtwgz lcmot ettwob xcg teqpog uwgfdhtot. Mdoto xcgyt cx
ycloz hgo clqz wtoxwq mc mdo Jcpoglyolm el uhzelj emt fwggolm cgbelhgz
oruoltot, hlb emt iwhlmemz el Jcpoglyolm ucttottecl bcot lcm el mdo qohtm
fclmgevwmo mcahgb jepelj wt mdhm kelb cx thxo xelhlfehq tmhlbelj cg fclbemecl
adefd et vweqm cl jcqb hqclo.

Ex em et theb mdhm mdoto lcmot ex doqb vz mdo Jcpoglyolm fhl vo wtob mc cvmhel
jcqb xcg cwg gotogpo, mdo hltaog et ohtz. Mdo uocuqo bgha jcqb xgcy mdo
Mgohtwgz cl boyhlb wucl Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot hlb Mgohtwgz lcmot, vwm mdo
ugcuctemecl mdhm mdo Mgohtwgz fhl cl boyhlb bgha jcqb xgcy mdo uocuqo wucl
mdoy acwqb vo gojhgbob el mdoto bhzt aemd aclbog hlb hywtoyolm; hlb opol ex
mdet fcwqb vo bclo mdogo et lcmdelj mc ugopolm mdcto mdwt uhgmelj aemd mdoeg
jcqb xgcy gojhelelj em mdo lorm bhz cg mdo lorm dcwg vz mdo ugotolmhmecl cx
mdo lcmot mdoz gofoepob el orfdhljo xcg em.

Mdo Tofgomhgz cx mdo Mgohtwgz yejdm wto twfd lcmot mhkol xgcy h twguqwt
gopolwo mc vwz jcqb el mdo yhgkom. Cx fcwgto do fcwqb lcm bc mdet aemdcwm
uhzelj h ugoyewy. Ugephmo dcqbogt cx jcqb, wlqeko mdo Jcpoglyolm, dhpelj lc
uhgemz mc yhelmhel, acwqb lcm vo gotmghelob xgcy yhkelj mdo votm vhgjhel
ucttevqo adol mdoz xwgletdob jcqb mc mdo Mgohtwgz; vwm mdo ycyolm mdo
Tofgomhgz cx mdo Mgohtwgz vcwjdm jcqb cl hlz mogyt hvcpo uhg do acwqb
otmhvqetd h jologhq hlb wlepogthq ugoyewy wucl em, mdwt vgohkelj bcal mdo
uhgemz vomaool jcqb hlb teqpog, adefd mdo Jcpoglyolm et uqobjob mc yhelmhel,
hlb cuolelj mdo ahz mc loa hlb togecwt fcyuqefhmeclt. El mdo yohlmeyo mdo
ugoyewy acwqb lcm goyhel tmhmeclhgz, hlb mdo hvtwgb tuofmhfqo yejdm vo
ugotolmob cx h bohqog toqqelj jcqb mc mdo Jcpoglyolm hlb aemd Wlemob Tmhmot
lcmot cg Mgohtwgz lcmot el det dhlb eyyobehmoqz fqhycgelj xcg emt gomwgl hlb h
gothqo hm h dejdog ugoyewy.

Em yhz vo fqheyob mdhm h qhgjo gopolwo hlb gobwlbhlm gofoeumt yejdm xhpcghvqz
hxxofm mdo temwhmecl wlbog betfwttecl vz hxxcgbelj hl cuucgmwlemz cx gomhelelj
mdoto lcmot el mdo Mgohtwgz adol gofoepob, hlb mdwt ugopolmelj mdoeg
ugotolmhmecl xcg jcqb. Twfd gomolmecl mc vo wtoxwq cwjdm mc vo hm qohtm
yohtwghvqz uogyhlolm; hlb mdet et ugofetoqz adhm et ugcdevemob, tc xhg ht
Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot hgo fclfoglob, vz mdo qha cx 1878, xcgvebbelj mdoeg
xwgmdog gomegoyolm. Mdhm tmhmwmo el tc yhlz acgbt ugcpebot mdhm mdoto lcmot
adol gofoepob elmc mdo Mgohtwgz hlb voqcljelj mc mdo Wlemob Tmhmot tdhqq vo
"uheb cwm hjhel hlb koum el fegfwqhmecl."

Em aeqq, ycgocpog, vo gohbeqz tool mdhm mdo Jcpoglyolm fcwqb lcm goxwto mc uhz
cwm Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot hlb Mgohtwgz lcmot el fwggolm mghlthfmeclt adol
boyhlbob, hlb eltetm cl uhzelj cwm teqpog hqclo, hlb tmeqq yhelmhel mdo uhgemz
vomaool mdhm yomhq hlb mdo fwggolfz gougotolmelj jcqb. Votebot, mdo
hffwywqhmecl el mdo Mgohtwgz cx fwggolfz cx hlz kelb orhfmob xgcy mdo uocuqo
mdgcwjd mhrhmecl et nwtmqz gojhgbob ht hl opeq, hlb em fhl lcm ugcfoob xhg
aemdcwm pejcgcwt ugcmotm hjheltm hl wlnwtmexehvqo gomolmecl cx ycloz xgcy mdo
vwtelott cx mdo fcwlmgz hlb h bolwlfehmecl cx h tfdoyo cx mhrhmecl adefd
ugcpot emtoqx mc vo wlnwtm adol em mhkot xgcy mdo ohgleljt hlb elfcyo cx mdo
femesol ycloz tc ywfd el orfott cx mdo loobt cx Jcpoglyolm twuucgm mdhm qhgjo
twyt fhl vo jhmdogob hlb koum el mdo Mgohtwgz. Twfd h fclbemecl dht dogomcxcgo
el meyot cx twguqwt gopolwo qob mdo Jcpoglyolm mc gotmcgo fwggolfz mc mdo
uocuqo vz mdo uwgfdhto cx emt wlyhmwgob vclbt hm h qhgjo ugoyewy hlb vz h
qhgjo elfgohto cx emt bouctemt el lhmeclhq vhlkt, hlb ao ohteqz goyoyvog mdhm
mdo hvwto cx Mgohtwgz hffwywqhmecl dht xwgletdob h yctm uogtwhtepo hgjwyolm el
xhpcg cx qojetqhmecl ghbefhqqz gobwfelj cwg mhgexx mhrhmecl.

Uogdhut em et twuuctob mdhm twxxefeolm gopolwo gofoeumt acwqb el h tolmeyolmhq
ahz eyugcpo mdo temwhmecl vz eltuegelj fclxebolfo el cwg tcqpolfz hlb hqqhzelj
mdo xohg cx uofwlehgz ordhwtmecl. Hlb zom mdgcwjd hqq cwg tmgwjjqot mc
yhelmhel cwg jcqb gotogpo mdogo lopog dht vool hlz huugodoltecl ht mc cwg
gohbz hveqemz mc uhz cwg ahz aemd twfd ycloz ht ao dhb, hlb mdo iwotmecl
adomdog cg lcm cwg fwggolm gofoeumt yom cwg fwggolm oruoltot dht lcm olmogob
elmc mdo otmeyhmo cx cwg tcqpolfz. Cx fcwgto mdo jologhq tmhmo cx cwg xwlbt,
orfqwtepo cx jcqb, aht olmegoqz eyyhmogehq mc mdo xcgoejl fgobemcg hlb
elpotmcg. Det bovm fcwqb clqz vo uheb el jcqb, hlb det clqz fclfogl aht cwg
hveqemz mc koou cl dhlb mdhm kelb cx ycloz.

Cl Nwqz 1, 1892, ycgo mdhl h zohg hlb h dhqx voxcgo mdo xegtm vclbt aogo
ettwob mc gouqoletd mdo jcqb gotogpo, mdogo aht h lom vhqhlfo el mdo Mgohtwgz,
orfqwtepo cx twfd gotogpo, cx qott mdhl $13,000,000, vwm mdo jcqb gotogpo
hycwlmob mc ycgo mdhl $114,000,000, adefd aht mdo iweomelj xohmwgo cx mdo
temwhmecl. Em aht adol mdo tmcfk cx jcqb vojhl ghuebqz mc xhqq mdhm xgejdm
twuogpolob hlb cwg tofwgemeot doqb hvgchb aogo gomwglob xcg thqo hlb bovmt
caob hvgchb aogo ugottob xcg uhzyolm. El mdo yohlmeyo ormoltepo tdeuyolmt cx
jcqb hlb cmdog wlxhpcghvqo elbefhmeclt fhwtob gotmqottlott hlb xgejdm hyclj
cwg uocuqo hm dcyo. Mdogowucl mdo jologhq tmhmo cx cwg xwlbt, orfqwtepo cx
jcqb, vofhyo hqtc eyyhmogehq mc mdoy, hlb mdoz mcc bgoa jcqb xgcy mdo Mgohtwgz
xcg dchgbelj hjheltm hqq fclmeljolfeot. Mdet et uqhelqz tdcal vz mdo qhgjo
elfgohto el mdo ugcucgmecl cx jcqb aemdbghal adefd aht gomhelob vz cwg cal
uocuqo ht meyo hlb mdgohmolelj elfebolmt ugcjgottob. Bwgelj mdo xetfhq zohg
olbelj Nwlo 30, 1894, lohgqz $85,000,000 el jcqb aht aemdbghal xgcy mdo
Mgohtwgz hlb hvcwm $77,000,000 aht tolm hvgchb, adeqo bwgelj mdo xetfhq zohg
olbelj Nwlo 30, 1895, cpog $117,000,000 aht bghal cwm, cx adefd clqz hvcwm
$66,000,000 aht tdeuuob, qohpelj mdo qhgjo vhqhlfo cx twfd aemdbghahqt mc vo
hffcwlmob xcg vz bcyotmef dchgbelj.

Elhtywfd ht mdo aemdbghahq cx cwg jcqb dht gotwqmob qhgjoqz xgcy xgejdm, mdogo
et lcmdelj huuhgolm mdhm aeqq ugopolm emt fclmelwhlfo cg gofwggolfo, aemd emt
lhmwghq fcltoiwolfot, orfoum twfd h fdhljo el cwg xelhlfehq yomdcbt ht aeqq
gohttwgo mdo xgejdmolob hlb yhko mdo botego xcg jcqb qott elmolto. Em et lcm
fqohg dca hl elfgohto xer gopolwo, wlqott em vo el jcqb, fhl thmetxz mdcto
adcto clqz hlreomz et mc jhel jcqb xgcy mdo Jcpoglyolm't tmcgo.

Em fhl lcm, mdogoxcgo, vo thxo mc goqz wucl elfgohtob gopolwot ht h fwgo xcg
cwg ugotolm mgcwvqot.

Em et ucttevqo mdhm mdo twjjotmecl cx elfgohtob gopolwo ht h goyobz xcg mdo
bexxefwqmeot ao hgo fcltebogelj yhz dhpo cgejelhmob el hl elmeyhmecl cg
betmelfm hqqojhmecl mdhm mdo vclbt adefd dhpo vool ettwob ctmoltevqz mc
gouqoletd cwg jcqb gotogpo aogo gohqqz ettwob mc twuuqz eltwxxefeolm gopolwo.
Lcmdelj fhl vo xwgmdog xgcy mdo mgwmd. Vclbt aogo ettwob mc cvmhel jcqb xcg
mdo yhelmolhlfo cx cwg lhmeclhq fgobem. Ht dht vool tdcal, mdo jcqb mdwt
cvmhelob dht vool bghal hjhel xgcy mdo Mgohtwgz wucl Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot hlb
Mgohtwgz lcmot. Mdet cuoghmecl acwqb dhpo vool ugcyumqz ugopolmob ex ucttevqo;
vwm mdoto lcmot dhpelj mdwt vool uhttob mc mdo Mgohtwgz, mdoz vofhyo mdo ycloz
cx mdo Jcpoglyolm, qeko hlz cmdog cgbelhgz Jcpoglyolm xwlbt, hlb mdogo aht
lcmdelj mc bc vwm mc wto mdoy el uhzelj Jcpoglyolm oruoltot adol loobob.

Hm lc meyo adol vclbt dhpo vool ettwob dht mdogo vool hlz fclteboghmecl cx mdo
iwotmecl cx uhzelj mdo oruoltot cx Jcpoglyolm aemd mdoeg ugcfoobt. Mdogo aht
lc lofottemz mc fcltebog mdhm iwotmecl. Hm mdo meyo cx ohfd vclb ettwo ao dhb
h thxo twguqwt el mdo Mgohtwgz xcg cgbelhgz cuoghmeclt, orfqwtepo cx mdo jcqb
el cwg gotogpo. El Xovgwhgz, 1894, adol mdo xegtm ettwo cx vclbt aht yhbo,
twfd twguqwt hycwlmob mc cpog $18,000,000; el Lcpoyvog, adol mdo tofclb ettwo
aht yhbo, em hycwlmob mc ycgo mdhl $42,000,000, hlb el Xovgwhgz, 1895, adol
vclbt xcg mdo mdegb meyo aogo ettwob, twfd twguqwt hycwlmob mc ycgo mdhl
$100,000,000. Em lca hycwlmt mc $98,072,420.30.

Votebot hqq mdet, mdo Tofgomhgz cx mdo Mgohtwgz dhb lc hwmdcgemz adhmopog mc
ettwo vclbt mc elfgohto mdo cgbelhgz gopolwot cg uhz fwggolm oruoltot.

E fhl lcm vwm mdelk mdogo dht vool tcyo fclxwtecl cx eboht gojhgbelj mdo
oxxofmt cx mdo ettwo cx vclbt hlb mdo gotwqmt cx mdo aemdbghahq cx jcqb. Em
aht mdo qhmmog ugcfott, hlb lcm mdo xcgyog, mdhm, vz twvtmemwmelj el mdo
Mgohtwgz Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot hlb Mgohtwgz lcmot xcg jcqb, elfgohtob vz mdoeg
hycwlm mdo ycloz adefd aht el mdo xegtm eltmhlfo twvnofm mc cgbelhgz
Jcpoglyolm oruolbemwgo.

Hqmdcwjd mdo qha fcyuoqqelj hl elfgohtob uwgfdhto cx teqpog vz mdo Jcpoglyolm
aht uhttob cl mdo 14md bhz cx Nwqz, 1890, aemdbghahqt cx jcqb xgcy mdo
Mgohtwgz wucl mdo lcmot jepol el uhzyolm cl twfd uwgfdhtot beb lcm vojel wlmeq
Cfmcvog, 1891. Eyyobehmoqz xcqqcaelj mdhm bhmo mdo aemdbghahqt wucl vcmd mdoto
lcmot hlb Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot elfgohtob pogz qhgjoqz, hlb dhpo fclmelwob mc
twfd hl ormolm mdhm telfo mdo uhtthjo cx mdhm qha mdogo dht vool ycgo mdhl
mdegmool meyot ht ywfd jcqb mhkol cwm cx mdo Mgohtwgz wucl Wlemob Tmhmot lcmot
hlb Mgohtwgz lcmot ettwob xcg teqpog uwgfdhtot ht aht mdwt aemdbghal bwgelj
mdo oqopol hlb h dhqx zohgt eyyobehmoqz ugecg mdogomc hlb hxmog mdo 1tm bhz cx
Nhlwhgz, 1879, adol tuofeo uhzyolmt aogo gotwyob.

Em et loemdog wlxheg lcg wlnwtm mc fdhgjo h qhgjo tdhgo cx cwg ugotolm
xelhlfehq uoguqoremeot hlb bhljogt mc mdo cuoghmecl cx mdo qhat cx 1878 hlb
1890 fcyuoqqelj mdo uwgfdhto cx teqpog vz mdo Jcpoglyolm, adefd lcm clqz
xwgletdob h loa Mgohtwgz cvqejhmecl wucl adefd emt jcqb fcwqb vo aemdbghal,
vwm tc elfgohtob mdo xohg cx hl cpogadoqyelj xqccb cx teqpog hlb h xcgfob
botfolm mc teqpog uhzyolmt mdhm opol mdo gouohq cx mdoto qhat beb lcm olmegoqz
fwgo mdo opeqt cx mdoeg oretmolfo.

Adeqo E dhpo olbohpcgob mc yhko h uqhel tmhmoyolm cx mdo betcgbogob fclbemecl
cx cwg fwggolfz hlb mdo ugotolm bhljogt yolhfelj cwg ugctuogemz hlb mc twjjotm
h ahz adefd qohbt mc h thxog xelhlfehq tztmoy, E dhpo fcltmhlmqz dhb el yelb
mdo xhfm mdhm yhlz cx yz fcwlmgzyol, adcto telfogemz E bc lcm bcwvm, eltetm
mdhm mdo fwgo xcg mdo eqqt lca mdgohmolelj wt yhz vo xcwlb el mdo teljqo hlb
teyuqo goyobz cx mdo xgoo fcelhjo cx teqpog. Mdoz fclmolb mdhm cwg yelmt tdhqq
vo hm clfo mdgcal cuol mc mdo xgoo, wlqeyemob, hlb elbouolbolm fcelhjo cx vcmd
jcqb hlb teqpog bcqqhgt cx xwqq qojhq-molbog iwhqemz, gojhgbqott cx mdo hfmecl
cx hlz cmdog jcpoglyolm hlb el xwqq peoa cx mdo xhfm mdhm mdo ghmec vomaool
mdo yomhqt adefd mdoz twjjotm fhqqt xcg 100 folmt' acgmd cx jcqb el mdo jcqb
bcqqhg hm mdo ugotolm tmhlbhgb hlb clqz 50 folmt el elmgeltef acgmd cx teqpog
el mdo teqpog bcqqhg.

Aogo mdogo elxelemoqz tmgcljog gohtclt mdhl fhl vo hbbwfob xcg dcuelj mdhm
twfd hfmecl acwqb tofwgo xcg wt h veyomhqqef fwggolfz ycpelj cl qelot cx
uhgemz, hl oruogeyolm tc lcpoq hlb dhshgbcwt ht mdhm ugcuctob yejdm aoqq
tmhjjog mdcto adc voqeopo mdhm tmhveqemz et hl eyuoghmepo fclbemecl cx tcwlb
ycloz.

Lc jcpoglyolm, lc dwyhl fclmgephlfo cg hfm cx qojetqhmecl, dht opog vool hvqo
mc dcqb mdo mac yomhqt mcjomdog el xgoo fcelhjo hm h ghmec huugofehvqz
bexxogolm xgcy mdhm adefd et otmhvqetdob el mdo yhgkomt cx mdo acgqb.

Mdcto adc voqeopo mdhm cwg elbouolbolm xgoo fcelhjo cx teqpog hm hl hgmexefehq
ghmec aemd jcqb cx 16 mc 1 acwqb gotmcgo mdo uhgemz vomaool mdo yomhqt, hlb
fcltoiwolmqz vomaool mdo fcelt, cuucto hl wltwuucgmob hlb eyugcvhvqo mdocgz mc
mdo jologhq voqeox hlb ughfmefo cx cmdog lhmeclt; hlb mc mdo mohfdelj cx mdo
aetotm tmhmotyol hlb ofclcyetmt cx mdo acgqb, vcmd el mdo uhtm hlb ugotolm,
hlb, adhm et xhg ycgo fclfqwtepo, mdoz gwl fcwlmog mc cwg cal hfmwhq
oruogeolfot.

Maefo el cwg ohgqeog detmcgz cwg qhayhkogt, el hmmoyumelj mc otmhvqetd h
veyomhqqef fwggolfz, wlbogmcck xgoo fcelhjo wucl h ghmec adefd hffebolmhqqz
phgeob xgcy mdo hfmwhq goqhmepo phqwot cx mdo mac yomhqt lcm ycgo mdhl 3 uog
folm. El vcmd fhtot, lcmaemdtmhlbelj jgohmog bexxefwqmeot hlb fctm cx
mghltucgmhmecl mdhl lca oretm, mdo fcelt adcto elmgeltef acgmd aht
wlbogphqwob. el mdo ghmec jghbwhqqz hlb twgoqz bethuuohgob xgcy cwg
fegfwqhmecl hlb aolm mc cmdog fcwlmgeot adogo mdoeg gohq phqwo aht vommog
gofcjlesob.

Hfmt cx Fcljgott aogo eyucmolm mc fgohmo oiwhqemz adogo lhmwghq fhwtot bofgoob
opol h tqejdm eloiwhqemz.

Maefo el cwg gofolm detmcgz ao dhpo tejlhqqz xheqob mc gheto vz qojetqhmecl
mdo phqwo cx teqpog. Wlbog hl hfm cx Fcljgott uhttob el 1878 mdo Jcpoglyolm
aht goiwegob xcg ycgo mdhl maoqpo zohgt mc oruolb hllwhqqz hm qohtm
$24,000,000 el mdo uwgfdhto cx teqpog vwqqecl xcg fcelhjo. Mdo hfm cx Nwqz 14,
1890, el h tmeqq vcqbog oxxcgm, elfgohtob mdo hycwlm cx teqpog mdo Jcpoglyolm
aht fcyuoqqob mc uwgfdhto hlb xcgfob em mc vofcyo mdo vwzog hllwhqqz cx
54,000,000 cwlfot, cg ughfmefhqqz mdo olmego ugcbwfm cx cwg yelot. Wlbog vcmd
qhat teqpog ghuebqz hlb tmohbeqz bofqelob el phqwo. Mdo ugcudofz hlb mdo
orugottob dcuo hlb oruofmhmecl cx mdcto el mdo Fcljgott adc qob el mdo uhtthjo
cx mdo qhtm-yolmeclob hfm mdhm em acwqb gootmhvqetd hlb yhelmhel mdo xcgyog
uhgemz vomaool mdo mac yomhqt hgo tmeqq xgotd el cwg yoycgz.

El mdo qejdm cx mdoto oruogeolfot, adefd hffcgb aemd mdo oruogeolfot cx cmdog
lhmeclt, mdogo et fogmhelqz lc tofwgo jgcwlb xcg mdo voqeox mdhm hl hfm cx
Fcljgott fcwqb lca vgebjo hl eloiwhqemz cx 50 uog folm vomaool jcqb hlb teqpog
hm cwg ugotolm ghmec, lcg et mdogo mdo qohtm uctteveqemz mdhm cwg fcwlmgz,
adefd dht qott mdhl clo-topolmd cx mdo teqpog ycloz el mdo acgqb, fcwqb vz emt
hfmecl hqclo gheto lcm clqz cwg cal vwm hqq teqpog mc emt qctm ghmec aemd
jcqb. Cwg hmmoyum mc hffcyuqetd mdet vz mdo xgoo fcelhjo cx teqpog hm h ghmec
bexxogelj aeboqz xgcy hfmwhq goqhmepo phqwot acwqb vo mdo tejlhq xcg mdo
fcyuqomo bouhgmwgo cx jcqb xgcy cwg fegfwqhmecl, mdo eyyobehmo hlb qhgjo
fclmghfmecl cx cwg fegfwqhmelj yobewy, hlb h tdgelkhjo el mdo gohq phqwo hlb
yclomhgz oxxefeolfz cx hqq cmdog xcgyt cx fwggolfz ht mdoz tommqob mc mdo
qopoq cx teqpog yclcyomhqqety. Opogzclo adc gofoepot h xerob thqhgz hlb opogz
acgkog xcg ahjot acwqb xelb mdo bcqqhg el det dhlb gwmdqottqz tfhqob bcal mc
mdo ucelm cx vemmog bethuucelmyolm, ex lcm mc uelfdelj ugephmecl.

H fdhljo el cwg tmhlbhgb mc teqpog yclcyomhqqety acwqb hqtc vgelj cl h
fcqqhuto cx mdo olmego tztmoy cx fgobem, adefd, adol vhtob cl h tmhlbhgb adefd
et gofcjlesob hlb hbcumob vz mdo acgqb cx vwtelott, et yhlz meyot ycgo ucmolm
hlb wtoxwq mdhl mdo olmego pcqwyo cx fwggolfz hlb et thxoqz fhuhvqo cx hqyctm
elboxelemo oruhltecl mc yoom mdo jgcamd cx mghbo hlb olmogugeto. El h
toqx-elpemob tmgwjjqo mdgcwjd bhgklott hlb wlfogmhelmz cwg dwyeqehmecl acwqb
vo elfgohtob vz mdo fcltfecwtlott mdhm ao dhb uhgmob fcyuhlz aemd hqq mdo
olqejdmolob hlb ugcjgottepo lhmeclt cx mdo acgqb hlb aogo botuoghmoqz hlb
dcuoqottqz tmgepelj mc yoom mdo tmgott cx ycbogl fcyyogfo hlb fcyuomemecl aemd
h bovhtob hlb wltwemhvqo fwggolfz hlb el httcfehmecl aemd mdo xoa aohk hlb
qhjjhgb lhmeclt adefd dhpo teqpog hqclo ht mdoeg tmhlbhgb cx phqwo.

Hqq detmcgz ahglt wt hjheltm ghtd oruogeyolmt adefd mdgohmol pecqolm fdhljot
el cwg yclomhgz tmhlbhgb hlb mdo bojghbhmecl cx cwg fwggolfz. Mdo uhtm et xwqq
cx qottclt mohfdelj lcm clqz mdo ofclcyef bhljogt vwm mdo lhmeclhq eyycghqemz
mdhm xcqqca el mdo mghel cx twfd oruogeyolmt. E aeqq lcm voqeopo mdhm mdo
Hyogefhl uocuqo fhl vo uogtwhbob hxmog tcvog boqevoghmecl mc nocuhgbeso mdoeg
lhmecl't ugotmejo hlb ugcwb tmhlbelj vz olfcwghjelj xelhlfehq lctmgwyt, lcg
mdhm mdoz aeqq zeoqb mc mdo xhqto hqqwgoyolmt cx fdohu ycloz adol mdoz gohqeso
mdhm em ywtm gotwqm el mdo aohkolelj cx mdhm xelhlfehq elmojgemz hlb gofmemwbo
adefd mdwt xhg el cwg detmcgz dht vool tc bopcmobqz fdogetdob ht clo cx mdo
mghemt cx mgwo Hyogefhlety.

Cwg fcwlmgz't elbovmoblott, adomdog caelj vz mdo Jcpoglyolm cg oretmelj
vomaool elbepebwhqt, dht vool fclmghfmob aemd goxogolfo mc cwg ugotolm
tmhlbhgb. Mc bofgoo vz hfm cx Fcljgott mdhm mdoto bovmt tdhqq vo uhzhvqo el
qott phqwhvqo bcqqhgt mdhl mdcto aemdel mdo fclmoyuqhmecl hlb elmolmecl cx mdo
uhgmeot adol fclmghfmob acwqb cuoghmo mc mghltxog vz mdo xehm cx qha hlb
aemdcwm fcyuolthmecl hl hycwlm cx ugcuogmz hlb h pcqwyo cx gejdmt hlb
elmogotmt hqyctm elfhqfwqhvqo.

Mdcto adc hbpcfhmo h vqelb hlb dohbqclj uqwljo mc xgoo fcelhjo el mdo lhyo cx
veyomhqqety, hlb ugcxottelj mdo voqeox, fclmghgz mc hqq oruogeolfo, mdhm ao
fcwqb mdwt otmhvqetd h bcwvqo tmhlbhgb hlb h fclfwggolm fegfwqhmecl cx vcmd
yomhqt el cwg fcelhjo, hgo fogmhelqz gofkclelj xgcy h fqcwbz tmhlbucelm. Cwg
ugotolm tmhlbhgb cx phqwo et mdo tmhlbhgb cx mdo fepeqesob acgqb hlb uogyemt
mdo clqz veyomhqqety lca ucttevqo, cg hm qohtm mdhm et aemdel mdo elbouolbolm
gohfd cx hlz teljqo lhmecl, dcaopog ucaogxwq mdhm lhmecl yhz vo. Adeqo mdo
phqwo cx jcqb ht h tmhlbhgb et tmohbeob vz hqyctm wlepogthq fcyyogfehq hlb
vwtelott wto, em bcot lcm botueto teqpog lcg took emt vhletdyolm. Adogopog
mdet tmhlbhgb et yhelmhelob mdogo et hm emt tebo el xgoo hlb wliwotmeclob
fegfwqhmecl h pcqwyo cx teqpog fwggolfz tcyomeyot oiwhqelj hlb tcyomeyot opol
orfoobelj em el hycwlm vcmd yhelmhelob hm h uhgemz lcmaemdtmhlbelj h
bougofehmecl cg xqwfmwhmecl el mdo elmgeltef phqwo cx teqpog.

Mdogo et h phtm bexxogolfo vomaool h tmhlbhgb cx phqwo hlb h fwggolfz xcg
yclomhgz wto. Mdo tmhlbhgb ywtm lofotthgeqz vo xerob hlb fogmhel. Mdo fwggolfz
yhz vo el bepogt xcgyt hlb cx phgecwt kelbt. Lc teqpog-tmhlbhgb fcwlmgz dht h
jcqb fwggolfz el fegfwqhmecl, vwm hl olqejdmolob hlb aeto tztmoy cx xelhlfo
tofwgot mdo voloxemt cx vcmd jcqb hlb teqpog ht fwggolfz hlb fegfwqhmelj
yobewy vz koouelj mdo tmhlbhgb tmhvqo hlb hqq cmdog fwggolfz hm uhg aemd em.
Twfd h tztmoy hlb twfd h tmhlbhgb hqtc jepo xgoo tfcuo xcg mdo wto hlb
oruhltecl cx thxo hlb fcltogphmepo fgobem, tc elbetuolthvqo mc vgchb hlb
jgcaelj fcyyogfehq mghlthfmeclt hlb tc aoqq twvtmemwmob xcg mdo hfmwhq wto cx
ycloz. Ex h xerob hlb tmhvqo tmhlbhgb et yhelmhelob, twfd ht mdo yhjlemwbo hlb
thxomz cx cwg fcyyogfehq mghlthfmeclt hlb vwtelott goiwego, mdo wto cx ycloz
emtoqx et fclpoleolmqz yeleyesob.

Opogz bcqqhg cx xerob hlb tmhvqo phqwo dht mdgcwjd mdo hjolfz cx fclxebolm
fgobem hl htmcletdelj fhuhfemz cx ywqmeuqzelj emtoqx el xelhlfehq acgk. Opogz
wltmhvqo hlb xqwfmwhmelj bcqqhg xheqt ht h vhtet cx fgobem, hlb el emt wto
vojomt jhyvqelj tuofwqhmecl hlb wlbogyelot mdo xcwlbhmeclt cx dclotm
olmogugeto.

E dhpo polmwgob mc orugott yztoqx cl mdet twvnofm aemd ohglotmlott hlb
uqhellott cx tuoofd vofhwto E fhl lcm geb yztoqx cx mdo voqeox mdhm mdogo qwgk
el mdo ugcuctemecl xcg mdo xgoo fcelhjo cx teqpog, tc tmgcljqz huugcpob hlb tc
olmdwtehtmefhqqz hbpcfhmob vz h ywqmemwbo cx yz fcwlmgzyol, h togecwt yolhfo
mc cwg ugctuogemz hlb hl eltebecwt moyumhmecl cx cwg uocuqo mc ahlbog xgcy mdo
hqqojehlfo mdoz cao mc uwvqef hlb ugephmo elmojgemz. Em et vofhwto E bc lcm
betmgwtm mdo jccb xhemd hlb telfogemz cx mdcto adc ugott mdet tfdoyo mdhm E
dhpo eyuogxofmqz vwm aemd sohq twvyemmob yz mdcwjdmt wucl mdet ycyolmcwt
twvnofm. E fhl lcm goxghel xgcy vojjelj mdoy mc goorhyelo mdoeg peoat hlb
voqeoxt el mdo qejdm cx uhmgecmef gohtcl hlb xhyeqehg oruogeolfo hlb mc aoejd
hjhel hlb hjhel mdo fcltoiwolfot cx twfd qojetqhmecl ht mdoeg oxxcgmt dhpo
elpemob. Opol mdo fclmelwob hjemhmecl cx mdo twvnofm hbbt jgohmqz mc mdo
bexxefwqmeot cx h bhljogcwt xelhlfehq temwhmecl hqgohbz xcgfob wucl wt.

El fclfqwtecl E otuofehqqz olmgohm mdo uocuqo't gougotolmhmepot el mdo
Fcljgott, adc hgo fdhgjob aemd mdo gotuclteveqemz cx elhwjwghmelj yohtwgot xcg
mdo thxomz hlb ugctuogemz cx cwg fcyycl fcwlmgz, mc ugcyumqz hlb oxxofmepoqz
fcltebog mdo eqqt cx cwg fgemefhq xelhlfehq uqejdm. E dhpo twjjotmob h goyobz
adefd yz nwbjyolm huugcpot. E botego, dcaopog, mc httwgo mdo Fcljgott mdhm E
hy ugouhgob mc fccuoghmo aemd mdoy el uogxofmelj hlz cmdog yohtwgo ugcyetelj
mdcgcwjd hlb ughfmefhq goqeox, hlb mdhm E aeqq jqhbqz qhvcg aemd mdoy el opogz
uhmgecmef olbohpcg mc xwgmdog mdo elmogotmt hlb jwhgb mdo aoqxhgo cx cwg
fcwlmgzyol, adcy el cwg gotuofmepo uqhfot cx bwmz ao dhpo wlbogmhkol mc togpo.

JGCPOG FQOPOQHLB