Jh jdc Whtmucgg hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg:

Jdc oggcrklomc vijdit jdc tojiht'g lcmiglojiqc dollg hy jdhgc wdoumca vijd jdc
asjf hy ronitm lovg yhu jdc kctcyij hy o mctcuhsg ota yucc pchplc irpucggiqclf
gsmmcgjg jdc cxowjitm hklimojiht ota itcxhuoklc ucgphtgikilijf itqhlqca it
jdciu jogn. Oj jdc jducgdhla hy gswd lokhu thv jh kc stacujonct kf jdc
Whtmucgg hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg, ota it jdc aigwdoumc hy ot cxcwsjiqc asjf
ctbhitca kf jdc Whtgjijsjiht, I gskrij jdig whrrstiwojiht, whtjoititm o kuicy
gjojcrctj hy jdc whtaijiht hy hsu tojihtol oyyoiug ota ucwhrrctaitm gswd
lcmiglojiht og gccrg jh rc tcwcggouf ota cxpcaictj.

Jdc digjhuf hy hsu ucwctj acolitmg vijd hjdcu tojihtg ota hsu pcowcysl
uclojihtg vijd jdcr oj jdig jirc oaaijihtollf acrhtgjuojc jdc oaqotjomc hy
whtgigjctjlf oadcuitm jh o yiur ksj bsgj yhucimt phliwf, yucc yuhr ctqihsg hu
orkijihsg tojihtol gwdcrcg ota wdouowjcuieca kf ctjiuc dhtcgjf ota gitwcuijf.

Asuitm jdc pogj fcou, psugsotj jh o lov hy Whtmucgg, whrriggihtcug vcuc
opphitjca jh jdc Otjvcup Itasgjuiol Cxphgijiht. Jdhsmd jdc poujiwipojiht hy
Orcuiwot cxdikijhug ycll you gdhuj hy whrplcjclf illsgjuojitm hsu tojihtol
itmctsijf ota itasgjuiol owdicqcrctjg, fcj ij vog zsijc wucaijoklc it qicv hy
jdc kuicy jirc ollhvca yhu pucpouojiht.

I doqc ctacoqhuca jh irpucgg spht jdc Kclmiot Mhqcutrctj jdc dccalcggtcgg ota
phgijiqc dourysltcgg hy ijg ucgjuiwjihtg spht jdc irphujojiht hy wcujoit hy
hsu yhha puhaswjg, ota doqc gjuhtmlf sumca jdoj jdc uimia gspcuqigiht ota
itgpcwjiht stacu hsu lovg ouc orplf gsyyiwictj jh pucqctj jdc cxphujojiht yuhr
jdig whstjuf hy aigcogca wojjlc ota stvdhlcghrc rcoj.

Jdc jcuritojiht hy jdc wiqil vou it Kuoeil dog kcct yhllhvca kf jdc mctcuol
pucqolctwc hy pcowc ota huacu. Ij oppcouitm oj ot coulf gjomc hy jdc
itgsuucwjiht jdoj ijg whsugc vhsla woll yhu stsgsol vojwdysltcgg ht jdc pouj
hy jdig Mhqcutrctj, hsu toqol yhuwc it jdc doukhu hy Uih ac Botciuh vog
gjuctmjdctca. Jdig pucwosjiht, I or gojigyica, jctaca jh ucgjuiwj jdc iggsc jh
o girplc juiol hy gjuctmjd kcjvcct jdc Kuoeiliot Mhqcutrctj ota jdc itgsumctjg
ota jh oqcuj whrpliwojihtg vdiwd oj jircg gccrca irritctj. Hsu yiur ojjijsac
hy tcsjuolijf vog roitjoitca jh jdc cta. Jdc itgsumctjg ucwciqca th
ctwhsuomcrctj hy cqctjsol ogflsr yuhr hsu whrrotacug, ota gswd hpphgijiht og
jdcf ctwhstjcuca vog yhu jdc puhjcwjiht hy hsu whrrcuwc ota vog wlcoulf
bsgjiyica kf pskliw lov.

O gcuihsg jctgiht hy uclojihtg doqitm ouigct oj jdc wlhgc hy jdc vou kcjvcct
Kuoeil ota Phujsmol kf ucoght hy jdc cgwopc hy jdc itgsumctj oariuol Ao Moro
ota dig yhllhvcug, jdc yuictalf hyyiwcg hy hsu ucpucgctjojiqcg jh jdhgc
whstjuicg vcuc cxcujca yhu jdc puhjcwjiht hy jdc gskbcwjg hy cijdcu vijdit jdc
jcuuijhuf hy jdc hjdcu.

Oljdhsmd jdc Mhqcutrctj hy Kuoeil vog aslf thjiyica jdoj jdc whrrcuwiol
ouuotmcrctj cxigjitm kcjvcct jdc Stijca Gjojcg ota jdoj whstjuf kogca ht jdc
jdiua gcwjiht hy jdc jouiyy owj hy 1890 vog okuhmojca ht Osmsgj 28, 1894, kf
jdc jonitm cyycwj hy jdc jouiyy lov thv it yhuwc, jdoj Mhqcutrctj gskgczsctjlf
thjiyica sg hy ijg itjctjiht jh jcuritojc gswd ouuotmcrctj ht jdc 1gj aof hy
Botsouf, 1895, it jdc cxcuwigc hy jdc uimdj ucgcuqca it jdc omuccrctj kcjvcct
jdc jvh whstjuicg. I itqijc ojjctjiht jh jdc whuucgphtactwc kcjvcct jdc
Gcwucjouf hy Gjojc ota jdc Kuoeiliot ritigjcu ht jdig gskbcwj.

Jdc whrriggiht humotieca stacu jdc whtqctjiht vdiwd vc doa ctjcuca itjh vijd
Wdilc yhu jdc gcjjlcrctj hy jdc hsjgjotaitm wloirg hy cowd Mhqcutrctj omoitgj
jdc hjdcu oabhsutca oj jdc cta hy jdc pcuiha gjipslojca yhu ijg whtjitsotwc
lcoqitm stacjcuritca o tsrkcu hy Orcuiwot wogcg vdiwd doa kcct aslf pucgctjca.
Jdcgc wloirg ouc thj kouuca, ota tcmhjiojihtg ouc it puhmucgg yhu jdciu
gskriggiht jh o tcv juikstol.

Ht jdc 17jd hy Rouwd logj o tcv jucojf vijd Wdito it ysujdcu ucmslojiht hy
crimuojiht vog gimtca oj Vogditmjht, ota ht Osmsgj 13 ij ucwciqca jdc gotwjiht
hy jdc Gctojc. Uojiyiwojiht ht jdc pouj hy Wdito ota yhurol cxwdotmc ouc
ovoijca jh miqc cyycwj jh jdig rsjsollf kctcyiwiol whtqctjiht.

O muojiyfitm ucwhmtijiht hy jdc stiyhur irpoujiolijf hy jdig whstjuf jhvoua
oll yhucimt gjojcg vog rotiycgjca kf jdc whitwiactj uczscgj hy jdc Wditcgc ota
Bopotcgc Mhqcutrctjg jdoj jdc omctjg hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg gdhsla vijdit puhpcu
lirijg oyyhua puhjcwjiht jh jdc gskbcwjg hy jdc hjdcu asuitm jdc gsgpctgiht hy
aiplhrojiw uclojihtg asc jh o gjojc hy vou. Jdig acliwojc hyyiwc vog owwcpjca,
ota o rigoppucdctgiht vdiwd moqc uigc jh jdc kclicy jdoj it oyyhuaitm jdig
nitalf sthyyiwiol puhjcwjiht hsu omctjg vhsla cxcuwigc jdc gorc osjdhuijf
vdiwd jdc vijdauovt omctjg hy jdc kcllimcuctjg doa cxcuwigca vog puhrpjlf
whuucwjca. Oljdhsmd jdc vou kcjvcct Wdito ota Bopot ctaotmcug th phliwf hy jdc
Stijca Gjojcg, ij acgcuqcg hsu muoqcgj whtgiacuojiht kf ucoght hy ijg
aigjsukotwc hy hsu muhvitm whrrcuwiol itjcucgjg it jdc jvh whstjuicg ota jdc
itwucogca aotmcug vdiwd rof ucgslj jh hsu wijiectg ahriwilca hu ghbhsutitm it
jdc itjcuihu hy Wdito.

Owjitm stacu o gjipslojiht it hsu jucojf vijd Nhuco (jdc yiugj whtwlsaca vijd
o vcgjcut phvcu), I yclj whtgjuoitca oj jdc kcmittitm hy jdc whtjuhqcugf jh
jctacu hsu mhha hyyiwcg jh itaswc ot oriwoklc ouuotmcrctj hy jdc itijiol
aiyyiwsljf muhvitm hsj hy jdc Bopotcgc acrotag yhu oaritigjuojiqc ucyhurg it
Nhuco, ksj jdc stdoppf pucwipijojiht hy owjsol dhgjilijicg acycojca jdig
nitalf psuphgc.

Acplhuitm jdc acgjuswjiqc vou kcjvcct jdc jvh rhgj phvcuysl hy jdc cogjcut
tojihtg ota otxihsg jdoj hsu whrrcuwiol itjcucgjg it jdhgc whstjuicg rof kc
pucgcuqca ota jdoj jdc goycjf hy hsu wijiectg jdcuc gdoll thj kc bchpouaieca,
I vhsla thj dcgijojc jh dcca otf itjirojiht jdoj hsu yuictalf oia yhu jdc
dhthuoklc jcuritojiht hy dhgjilijicg vhsla kc owwcpjoklc jh khjd kcllimcuctjg.

O whtqctjiht dog kcct yitollf whtwlsaca yhu jdc gcjjlcrctj kf oukijuojiht hy
jdc puhlhtmca aigpsjc vijd Cwsoahu muhvitm hsj hy jdc puhwccaitmg omoitgj
Crilih Gotjhg, o tojsuolieca wijiect hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg.

Hsu uclojihtg vijd jdc Ucpskliw hy Yuotwc whtjitsc jh kc gswd og gdhsla cxigj
kcjvcct tojihtg gh lhtm khsta jhmcjdcu kf yuictalf gfrpojdf ota girilouijf it
jdciu yhur hy mhqcutrctj.

Jdc ucwctj wuscl oggoggitojiht hy jdc Pucgiactj hy jdig gigjcu Ucpskliw wollca
yhujd gswd stiqcugol cxpucggihtg hy ghuuhv ota whtahlctwc yuhr hsu pchplc ota
Mhqcutrctj og jh lcoqc th ahskj hy jdc acpjd ota gitwcuijf hy hsu ojjowdrctj.
Jdc ucghlsjihtg poggca kf jdc Gctojc ota Dhsgc hy Ucpucgctjojiqcg ht jdc
hwwogiht doqc kcct whrrstiwojca jh jdc viahv hy Pucgiactj Wouthj.

Owjitm spht jdc ucphujca aigwhqcuf hy Jcxog ycqcu it woumhcg hy Orcuiwot
wojjlc, jdc Mcurot puhdikijiht omoitgj irphujojihtg hy liqc gjhwn ota yucgd
rcojg yuhr jdig whstjuf dog kcct ucqiqca. Ij ig dhpca jdoj Mcurotf vill ghht
kcwhrc whtqitwca jdoj jdc itdikijiht ig og tccalcgg og ij ig dourysl jh rsjsol
itjcucgjg.

Jdc Mcurot Mhqcutrctj dog puhjcgjca omoitgj jdoj puhqigiht hy jdc wsgjhrg
jouiyy owj vdiwd irphgcg o aigwuiritojitm asjf hy htc-jctjd hy 1 wctj o phsta
ht gsmoug whritm yuhr whstjuicg pofitm ot cxphuj khstjf jdcucht, wloiritm jdoj
jdc cxowjiht hy gswd asjf ig it whtjuoqctjiht hy Oujiwlcg Q ota IX hy jdc
jucojf hy 1828 vijd Pusggio.

It jdc itjcucgjg hy jdc whrrcuwc hy khjd whstjuicg ota jh oqhia cqct jdc
owwsgojiht hy jucojf qihlojiht, I ucwhrrcta jdc ucpcol hy gh rswd hy jdc
gjojsjc og irphgcg jdoj asjf, ota I itqijc ojjctjiht jh jdc owwhrpotfitm
ucphuj hy jdc Gcwucjouf hy Gjojc, whtjoititm o aigwsggiht hy jdc zscgjihtg
uoigca kf jdc Mcurot puhjcgjg.

Coulf it jdc pucgctj fcou ot omuccrctj vog ucowdca vijd Mucoj Kuijoit
whtwcutitm itgjuswjihtg jh kc miqct jh jdc toqol whrrotacug hy jdc jvh
Mhqcutrctjg it Kcuitm Gco ota jdc whtjimshsg Thujd Powiyiw Hwcot yhu jdciu
msiaotwc it jdc cxcwsjiht hy jdc ovoua hy jdc Pouig Juikstol hy Oukijuojiht
ota jdc ctyhuwcrctj hy jdc ucmslojihtg jdcucit pucgwuikca yhu jdc puhjcwjiht
hy gcol liyc it jdc vojcug rctjihtca. Ot stacugjotaitm dog olgh kcct ucowdca
yhu jdc pofrctj kf jdc Stijca Gjojcg hy

$425,000 it ysll gojigyowjiht hy oll wloirg vdiwd rof kc roac kf Mucoj Kuijoit
yhu aoromcg muhvitm hsj hy jdc whtjuhqcugf og jh ysu gcolg it Kcuitm Gco hu
jdc gciesuc hy Kuijigd qcggclg ctmomca it jonitm gcol it jdhgc vojcug. Jdc
ovoua ota yitaitmg hy jdc Pouig Juikstol jh o mucoj cxjctj acjcuritca jdc
yowjg ota puitwiplcg spht vdiwd jdcgc wloirg gdhsla kc oabsgjca, ota jdcf doqc
kcct gskbcwjca kf khjd Mhqcutrctjg jh o jdhuhsmd cxoritojiht spht jdc
puitwiplcg og vcll og jdc yowjg vdiwd jdcf itqhlqc. I or whtqitwca jdoj o
gcjjlcrctj spht jdc jcurg rctjihtca vhsla kc ot czsijoklc ota oaqotjomchsg
htc, ota I ucwhrrcta jdoj puhqigiht kc roac yhu jdc puhrpj pofrctj hy jdc
gjojca gsr.

Jdsg you htlf Yuotwc ota Phujsmol doqc gimtiyica jdciu villitmtcgg jh oadcuc
jh jdc ucmslojihtg cgjokligdca stacu jdc ovoua hy jdc Pouig Juikstol hy
Oukijuojiht.

Pucliritouf gsuqcfg hy jdc Olognot khstaouf ota o pucpouojhuf cxoritojiht hy
jdc zscgjiht hy puhjcwjiht hy yhha yigd it jdc whtjimshsg vojcug hy jdc Stijca
Gjojcg ota jdc Ahritiht hy Wotoao ouc it puhmucgg.

Jdc khstaouf hy Kuijigd Msioto gjill ucroitg it aigpsjc kcjvcct Mucoj Kuijoit
ota Qctcesclo. Kclicqitm jdoj ijg coulf gcjjlcrctj ht ghrc bsgj kogig olinc
dhthuoklc jh khjd poujicg ig it jdc litc hy hsu cgjokligdca phliwf jh ucrhqc
yuhr jdig dcrigpdcuc oll wosgcg hy aiyycuctwc vijd phvcug kcfhta jdc gco, I
gdoll uctcv jdc cyyhujg dcucjhyhuc roac jh kuitm okhsj o ucgjhuojiht hy
aiplhrojiw uclojihtg kcjvcct jdc aigpsjotjg ota jh itaswc o ucycuctwc jh
oukijuojiht--o ucghuj vdiwd Mucoj Kuijoit gh whtgpiwshsglf yoqhug it puitwiplc
ota ucgpcwjg it puowjiwc ota vdiwd ig coutcgjlf ghsmdj kf dcu vconcu
oaqcugouf.

Gitwc whrrstiwojitm jdc qhlsrithsg whuucgphtactwc it ucmoua jh Dovoii ota jdc
owjiht jonct kf jdc Gctojc ota Dhsgc hy Ucpucgctjojiqcg ht wcujoit zscgjihtg
gskrijjca jh jdc bsamrctj ota viacu aigwucjiht hy Whtmucgg jdc humotieojiht hy
o mhqcutrctj it plowc hy jdc puhqigihtol ouuotmcrctj vdiwd yhllhvca jdc
acphgijiht hy jdc Zscct dog kcct otthstwca, vijd cqiactwc hy ijg cyycwjiqc
hpcuojiht. Jdc ucwhmtijiht sgsol it gswd wogcg dog kcct owwhuaca jdc tcv
Mhqcutrctj.

Stacu hsu pucgctj jucojicg hy cxjuoaijiht vijd Ijolf rigwouuiomcg hy bsgjiwc
doqc hwwsuuca hvitm jh jdc ucysgol hy jdoj Mhqcutrctj jh gsuuctacu ijg hvt
gskbcwjg. Jdsg you hsu cyyhujg jh tcmhjiojc ot orctaca whtqctjiht hkqiojitm
jdig aiyyiwsljf doqc kcct stoqoilitm.

Opouj yuhr jdc vou it vdiwd jdc Iglota Crpiuc ig ctmomca, Bopot ojjuowjg
itwucogitm ojjctjiht it jdig whstjuf kf dcu cqiactj acgiuc jh wsljiqojc rhuc
likcuol itjcuwhsugc vijd sg ota jh gccn hsu nitalf oia it ysujdcuotwc hy dcu
losaoklc acgiuc yhu whrplcjc osjhthrf it dcu ahrcgjiw oyyoiug ota ysll
czsolijf it jdc yorilf hy tojihtg. Jdc Bopotcgc Crpiuc hy jh-aof ig th lhtmcu
jdc Bopot hy jdc pogj, ota hsu uclojihtg vijd jdig puhmucggiqc tojiht gdhsla
thj kc lcgg kuhoa ota likcuol jdot jdhgc vijd hjdcu phvcug.

Mhha vill, yhgjcuca kf rotf itjcucgjg it whrrht, dog rounca hsu uclojihtg vijd
hsu tcoucgj ghsjdcut tcimdkhu. Pcowc kcitm ucgjhuca olhtm dcu thujdcut
yuhtjicu, Rcxiwh dog ognca jdc pstigdrctj hy jdc lojc aigjsukcug hy dcu
juotzsillijf. Jdcuc hsmdj jh kc o tcv jucojf hy whrrcuwc ota toqimojiht vijd
jdoj whstjuf jh jonc jdc plowc hy jdc htc vdiwd jcuritojca jdiujcct fcoug omh.
Jdc yuictalitcgg hy jdc itjcuwhsugc kcjvcct jdc jvh whstjuicg ig ojjcgjca kf
jdc yowj jdoj asuitm jdig lhtm pcuiha jdc whrrcuwc hy cowd dog gjcoailf
itwucogca stacu jdc uslc hy rsjsol whtgiacuojiht, kcitm tcijdcu gjirslojca kf
whtqctjihtol ouuotmcrctjg thu ucjouaca kf bcolhsg uiqoluicg hu gclyigd
aigjusgj.

Ot itacrtijf jctacuca kf Rcxiwh og o muowihsg owj yhu jdc rsuacu it 1887 hy
Lcht Kolavit, ot Orcuiwot wijiect, kf o kota hy rouosacug it Asuotmh dog kcct
owwcpjca ota ig kcitm poia it itgjollrctjg.

Jdc puhklcr hy jdc gjhuomc ota sgc hy jdc vojcug hy jdc Uih Muotac yhu
iuuimojiht gdhsla kc ghlqca kf oppuhpuiojc whtwsuuctj owjiht hy jdc jvh
itjcucgjca whstjuicg. Uigitm it jdc Whlhuoah dcimdjg, jdc gjucor ylhvg
itjcurijjctjlf, ficlaitm lijjlc vojcu asuitm jdc auf rhtjdg jh jdc iuuimojiht
wdottclg olucoaf whtgjuswjca olhtm ijg whsugc. Jdig gwouwijf ig hyjct gcqcuclf
yclj it jdc ucmihtg vdcuc jdc uiqcu yhurg o whrrht khstaouf. Rhuchqcu, jdc
yuczsctj wdotmcg it ijg whsugc jduhsmd lcqcl gotag hyjct uoigc crkouuoggitm
zscgjihtg hy jcuuijhuiol bsuigaiwjiht.

Puhritctj orhtm jdc zscgjihtg hy jdc fcou vog jdc Klscyiclag itwiactj, it vdoj
ig nthvt og jdc Rhgzsijh Itaiot Gjuip, khuacuitm ht jdc Ojlotjiw Hwcot ota
vijdit jdc bsuigaiwjiht hy Tiwouomso. Kf jdc jucojf hy 1860 kcjvcct Mucoj
Kuijoit ota Tiwouomso jdc yhurcu Mhqcutrctj cxpucgglf ucwhmtieca jdc
ghqcucimtjf hy jdc lojjcu hqcu jdc gjuip, ota o lirijca yhur hy
gcly-mhqcutrctj vog msouotjcca jh jdc Rhgzsijh Itaiotg, jh kc cxcuwigca
owwhuaitm jh jdciu wsgjhrg, yhu jdcrgclqcg ota hjdcu avcllcug vijdit ijg
lirijg. Jdc gh-wollca tojiqc mhqcutrctj, vdiwd mucv jh kc loumclf roac sp hy
olictg, yhu rotf fcoug aigpsjca jdc ghqcucimtjf hy Tiwouomso hqcu jdc gjuip
ota wloirca jdc uimdj jh roitjoit jdcucit o puowjiwollf itacpctactj rstiwipol
mhqcutrctj. Coulf it jdc pogj fcou cyyhujg hy Tiwouomso jh roitjoit
ghqcucimtjf hqcu jdc Rhgzsijh jcuuijhuf lca jh gcuihsg aigjsukotwcg,
wslritojitm it jdc gsppucggiht hy jdc tojiqc mhqcutrctj ota jdc ojjcrpjca
gskgjijsjiht hy ot irpuowjiwoklc whrphgijc oaritigjuojiht it vdiwd Tiwouomso
ota olict ucgiactjg vcuc jh poujiwipojc. Yoilsuc vog yhllhvca kf ot
itgsuucwjiht, vdiwd yhu o jirc gskqcujca Tiwouomsot uslc, cxpcllitm dcu
hyyiwcug ota ucgjhuitm jdc hla humotieojiht. Jdig it jsut moqc plowc jh jdc
cxigjitm lhwol mhqcutrctj cgjokligdca ota spdcla kf Tiwouomso.

Oljdhsmd jdc olict itjcucgjg ouuofca omoitgj Tiwouomso it jdcgc juotgowjihtg
doqc kcct loumclf Orcuiwot ota jdc whrrcuwc hy jdoj ucmiht yhu ghrc jirc dog
kcct ota gjill ig wdicylf whtjuhllca kf hsu wijiectg, vc wot thj yhu jdoj
ucoght wdollctmc jdc uimdjysl ghqcucimtjf hy Tiwouomso hqcu jdig irphujotj
pouj hy dcu ahroit.

Yhu ghrc rhtjdg htc, ota asuitm pouj hy jdc jirc jvh, hy hsu toqol gdipg doqc
kcct gjojihtca oj Klscyiclag yhu jdc puhjcwjiht hy oll lcmijirojc itjcucgjg hy
hsu wijiectg. It Gcpjcrkcu logj jdc Mhqcutrctj oj Rotomso cxpcllca yuhr ijg
jcuuijhuf jvclqc hu rhuc yhucimtcug, itwlsaitm jvh Orcuiwotg, yhu ollcmca
poujiwipojiht it jdc gcaijihsg hu ucqhlsjihtouf rhqcrctjg omoitgj jdc Ucpskliw
oj Klscyiclag olucoaf rctjihtca; ksj jduhsmd jdc coutcgj ucrhtgjuotwc hy jdig
Mhqcutrctj jdc jvh Orcuiwotg doqc kcct pcurijjca jh ucjsut jh jdc pcowcysl
rotomcrctj hy jdciu ksgitcgg. Hsu toqol whrrotacug oj jdc gwctc hy jdcgc
aigjsukotwcg kf jdciu whtgjotj cxdikijiht hy yiurtcgg ota mhha bsamrctj
whtjuiksjca loumclf jh jdc pucqctjiht hy rhuc gcuihsg whtgczsctwcg ota jh jdc
ucgjhuojiht hy zsicj ota huacu. I ucmucj jdoj it jdc riagj hy jdcgc
hwwsuuctwcg jdcuc doppctca o rhgj muoqc ota iuuijojitm yoilsuc hy Tiwouomsot
bsgjiwc. Ot Orcuiwot wijiect torca Vilght, ucgiaitm oj Uoro, it jdc Rhgzsijh
jcuuijhuf, vog rsuacuca kf htc Oumscllh, jdc owjitm mhqcuthu hy jdc jhvt.
Oyjcu ghrc aclof jdc rsuacucu vog ouucgjca, ksj gh itgcwsuclf whtyitca hu
msouaca jdoj dc cgwopca, ota thjvijdgjotaitm hsu ucpcojca acrotag ij ig
wloirca jdoj dig ucwopjsuc dog kcct irphggiklc kf ucoght hy dig ylimdj kcfhta
Tiwouomsot bsuigaiwjiht.

Jdc Tiwouomsot osjdhuijicg, doqitm miqct thjiwc hy yhuycijsuc hy jdciu
whtwcggiht jh jdc wotol whrpotf ht muhstag psuclf jcwdtiwol ota thj crkuowca
it jdc whtjuowj, doqc ucwcaca yuhr jdoj phgijiht.

Pcus, I ucmucj jh gof, gdhvg gfrpjhrg hy ahrcgjiw aigjsukotwc, asc puhkoklf jh
jdc glhvtcgg hy dcu ucwspcuojiht yuhr jdc aigjucggcg hy jdc vou hy 1881.
Vconctca it ucghsuwcg, dcu aiyyiwsljicg it yowitm itjcutojihtol hklimojihtg
itqijc hsu nitalf gfrpojdf ota bsgjiyf hsu yhukcouotwc it pucggitm
lhtm-pctaitm wloirg. I doqc yclj whtgjuoitca jh jcgjiyf jdig gfrpojdf it
whttcwjiht vijd wcujoit acrotag sumctjlf pucycuuca kf hjdcu phvcug.

Jdc ucwctj acojd hy jdc Weou hy Usggio wollca yhujd oppuhpuiojc cxpucggihtg hy
ghuuhv ota gfrpojdf ht jdc pouj hy hsu Mhqcutrctj vijd dig kcucoqca yorilf ota
jdc Usggiot pchplc. Og o ysujdcu acrhtgjuojiht hy ucgpcwj ota yuictagdip hsu
ritigjcu oj Gj. Pcjcugksum vog aiucwjca jh ucpucgctj hsu Mhqcutrctj oj jdc
ystcuol wcucrhticg.

Jdc gcolitm itjcucgjg hy Usggio it Kcuitm Gco ouc gcwhta htlf jh hsu hvt. O
rhasg qiqctai dog jdcucyhuc kcct whtwlsaca vijd jdc Irpcuiol Mhqcutrctj
ucgjuiwjiqc hy phowditm ht jdc Usggiot uhhncuicg ota hy gcolitm it vojcug
vdiwd vcuc thj whrpucdctaca it jdc puhjcwjca ouco acyitca it jdc Pouig ovoua.

Hwwogiht dog kcct yhsta jh sumc spht jdc Usggiot Mhqcutrctj czsolijf hy
jucojrctj yhu hsu mucoj liyc-itgsuotwc whrpoticg vdhgc hpcuojihtg doqc kcct
cxjctaca jduhsmdhsj Csuhpc. Oarijjitm og vc ah yhucimt whuphuojihtg jh
juotgowj ksgitcgg it jdc Stijca Gjojcg, vc tojsuollf cxpcwj th lcgg jhlcuotwc
yhu hsu hvt it jdc orplc yiclag hy whrpcjijiht okuhoa.

Ksj ycv wogcg hy itjcuycuctwc vijd tojsuolieca wijiectg ucjsutitm jh Usggio
doqc kcct ucphujca asuitm jdc wsuuctj fcou. Htc Nuecritgni vog ouucgjca logj
gsrrcu it o Phligd puhqitwc ht o ucphujca wdoumc hy stpcurijjca uctstwiojiht
hy Usggiot ollcmiotwc, ksj ij juotgpiuca jdoj jdc puhwccaitmg huimitojca it
ollcmca rolycogotwc whrrijjca kf Nuecritgni vdilc ot irpcuiol hyyiwiol o
tsrkcu hy fcoug omh. Cyyhujg yhu dig uclcogc, vdiwd puhrigca jh kc gswwcggysl,
vcuc it puhmucgg vdct dig acojd vog ucphujca.

Jdc Mhqcutrctj hy Golqoahu doqitm kcct hqcujduhvt kf ot okuspj phpslou
hsjkucon, wcujoit hy ijg rilijouf ota wiqil hyyiwcug, vdilc dhjlf psugsca kf
itysuiojca itgsumctjg, ghsmdj ucysmc ht khoua jdc Stijca Gjojcg vou gdip
Kcttitmjht, jdct lfitm it o Golqoahucot phuj. Oljdhsmd jdc puowjiwc hy ogflsr
ig thj yoqhuca kf jdig Mhqcutrctj, fcj it qicv hy jdc irritctj pcuil vdiwd
jducojctca jdc ysmijiqcg ota ghlclf yuhr whtgiacuojihtg hy dsrotijf jdcf vcuc
oyyhuaca gdcljcu kf hsu toqol whrrotacu, ota vdct oyjcuvouag acrotaca stacu
hsu jucojf hy cxjuoaijiht vijd Golqoahu yhu juiol ht wdoumcg hy rsuacu, ought,
ota uhkkcuf I aiucwjca jdoj gswd hy jdcr og doa thj qhlstjouilf lcyj jdc gdip
kc whtqcfca jh htc hy hsu tcoucgj phujg vdcuc o dcouitm whsla kc doa kcyhuc o
bsaiwiol hyyiwcu, it whrpliotwc vijd jdc jcurg hy jdc jucojf. Ht jdciu ouuiqol
oj Got Yuotwigwh gswd o puhwccaitm vog puhrpjlf itgjijsjca kcyhuc jdc Stijca
Gjojcg aigjuiwj bsamc, vdh dcla jdoj jdc owjg whtgjijsjitm jdc ollcmca
hyyctgcg vcuc phlijiwol ota aigwdoumca oll jdc owwsgca cxwcpj htc Wictyscmhg,
vdh vog dcla yhu ot ojjcrpj jh rsuacu. Jdcucspht I vog whtgjuoitca jh aiucwj
dig uclcogc yhu jdc ucoght jdoj ot ojjcrpj jh rsuacu vog thj htc hy jdc wuircg
wdoumca omoitgj dir ota spht vdiwd dig gsuuctacu jh jdc Golqoahucot
osjdhuijicg doa kcct acrotaca.

Stucoghtoklc ota stbsgj yitcg irphgca kf Gpoit ht jdc qcggclg ota whrrcuwc hy
jdc Stijca Gjojcg doqc acrotaca yuhr jirc jh jirc asuitm jdc logj jvctjf fcoug
coutcgj ucrhtgjuotwc ht jdc pouj hy hsu Mhqcutrctj. It jdc irrcaiojc pogj
cxhukijotj pctoljicg doqc kcct irphgca spht hsu qcggclg ota mhhag kf wsgjhrg
osjdhuijicg hy Wsko ota Pscujh Uiwh yhu wlcuiwol cuuhug hy jdc rhgj juiqiol
wdouowjcu it jdc rotiycgjg hy killg hy loaitm. It ghrc wogcg yitcg orhstjitm
jh jdhsgotag hy ahlloug doqc kcct lcqica spht woumhcg hu jdc wouufitm qcggclg
vdct jdc mhhag it zscgjiht vcuc ctjijlca jh yucc ctjuf. Yitcg doqc kcct
cxowjca cqct vdct jdc cuuhu doa kcct acjcwjca ota jdc Gpotigd osjdhuijicg
thjiyica kcyhuc jdc ouuiqol hy jdc mhhag it phuj.

Jdig whtaswj ig it gjuotmc whtjuogj vijd jdc whtgiacuojc ota likcuol jucojrctj
cxjctaca jh Gpotigd qcggclg ota woumhcg it hsu phujg it linc wogcg. Th
gojigyowjhuf gcjjlcrctj hy jdcgc qcxojihsg zscgjihtg dog fcj kcct ucowdca.

Jdc Rhuo wogc, ucycuuca jh it rf logj ottsol rcggomc, ucroitg stgcjjlca. Yuhr
jdc aiplhrojiw whuucgphtactwc ht jdig gskbcwj vdiwd dog kcct loia kcyhuc jdc
Gctojc ij vill kc gcct jdoj jdig Mhqcutrctj dog hyycuca jh whtwlsac o
whtqctjiht vijd Gpoit yhu aigphgol kf oukijuojiht hy hsjgjotaitm wloirg
kcjvcct jdc jvh whstjuicg, cxwcpj jdc Rhuo wloir. vdiwd, doqitm kcct lhtm omh
oabsgjca, thv htlf ovoijg pofrctj og gjipslojca, ota hy whsugc ij whsla thj kc
itwlsaca it jdc puhphgca whtqctjiht. Ij vog dhpca jdoj jdig hyycu vhsla ucrhqc
pouliorctjouf hkgjowlcg ctwhstjcuca kf jdc Gpotigd Mhqcutrctj it puhqiaitm
pofrctj hy jdc Rhuo itacrtijf. I ucmucj jh gof jdoj th acyitijc ucplf jh jdig
hyycu dog fcj kcct roac ota oll cyyhujg jh gcwsuc pofrctj hy jdig gcjjlca
wloir doqc kcct stoqoilitm.

It rf logj ottsol rcggomc I oaqcujca jh jdc wloir ht jdc pouj hy Jsuncf hy jdc
uimdj jh cxpcl og pcughtg stacgiuoklc ota aotmcuhsg Ourctiotg tojsuolieca it
jdc Stijca Gjojcg ota ucjsutitm jh Jsunigd bsuigaiwjiht. Tsrcuhsg zscgjihtg it
jdig uclojiht doqc ouigct. Vdilc jdig Mhqcutrctj owzsicgwcg it jdc oggcujca
uimdj hy cxpslgiht, ij vill thj whtgctj jdoj Ourctiotg rof kc irpuightca hu
hjdcuvigc pstigdca yhu th hjdcu ucoght jdot doqitm owzsiuca vijdhsj irpcuiol
whtgctj Orcuiwot wijiectgdip.

Jducc hy jdc oggoilotjg hy Rigg Rcljht, ot Orcuiwot jcowdcu it Rhgsl, doqc
kcct whtqiwjca kf jdc Hjjhrot whsujg, ota I or oaqigca jdoj ot oppcol omoitgj
jdc owzsijjol hy jdc ucroititm yiqc dog kcct jonct kf jdc Jsunigd puhgcwsjitm
hyyiwcu.

O whtqctjiht dog kcct whtwlsaca vijd Qctcesclo yhu jdc oukijuojiht hy o
lhtm-aigpsjca wloir muhvitm hsj hy jdc gciesuc hy wcujoit qcggclg jdc puhpcujf
hy wijiectg hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg. Oljdhsmd gimtca, jdc jucojf hy cxjuoaijiht
vijd Qctcesclo ig thj fcj it yhuwc, hvitm jh jdc itgigjctwc hy jdoj Mhqcutrctj
jdoj vdct gsuuctacuca ijg wijiectg gdoll it th wogc kc lioklc jh wopijol
pstigdrctj.

Jdc uslcg yhu jdc pucqctjiht hy whlligihtg oj gco vdiwd vcuc yuorca kf jdc
rouijirc whtycuctwc dcla it jdig wijf it 1889, doqitm kcct whtwsuuctjlf
itwhuphuojca it jdc gjojsjcg hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg ota Mucoj Kuijoit doqc kcct
otthstwca jh jonc cyycwj Rouwd 1, 1895, ota itqijojihtg doqc kcct cxjctaca jh
oll rouijirc tojihtg jh oadcuc jh jdcr. Yoqhuoklc ucgphtgcg doqc jdsg you kcct
ucwciqca yuhr Osgjuio, Yuotwc, Phujsmol, Gpoit, ota Gvcact.

It rf logj ottsol rcggomc I ucycuuca kuicylf jh jdc stgojigyowjhuf gjojc hy
oyyoiug it Gorho stacu jdc hpcuojiht hy jdc Kculit jucojf og gimtollf
illsgjuojitm jdc irphliwf hy ctjotmlitm olliotwcg vijd yhucimt phvcug, ota ht
Rof 9, 1894, it ucgphtgc jh o ucghlsjiht hy jdc Gctojc, I gctj o Gpcwiol
rcggomc ota ahwsrctjg jh jdoj khaf ht jdc gorc gskbcwj, vdiwd crpdogieca rf
pucqihsglf cxpucggca hpitihtg. Lojcu hwwsuuctwcg, jdc whuucgphtactwc it ucmoua
jh vdiwd vill kc loia kcyhuc jdc Whtmucgg, ysujdcu acrhtgjuojc jdoj jdc
Mhqcutrctj vdiwd vog acqigca kf jdc jducc phvcug ota yhuwca spht jdc Gorhotg
omoitgj jdciu itqcjcuojc dhgjilijf wot kc roitjoitca htlf kf jdc whtjitsca
pucgctwc hy yhucimt rilijouf yhuwc ota oj th groll gowuiyiwc hy liyc ota
jucogsuc.

Jdc gsppucggiht hy jdc Rojooyo itgsuucwjiht kf jdc phvcug ota jdc gskgczsctj
kotigdrctj hy jdc lcoacu ota clcqct hjdcu wdicyg, og ucwijca it rf logj
rcggomc, aia thj kuitm logjitm pcowc jh jdc iglotag. Yhuriaoklc spuigitmg
whtjitsca, ota yitollf o uckclliht kuhnc hsj it jdc wopijol iglota, Sphls,
dcoaca it Ooto, jdc vcgjcut aigjuiwj, kf jdc fhstmcu Jorogcgc, ota it Ojso,
jdc cogjcut aigjuiwj, kf hjdcu lcoacug. Jdc itgsumctjg uoqomca jdc whstjuf ota
yhsmdj jdc Mhqcutrctj'g juhhpg sp jh jdc qcuf ahhug hy Opio. Jdc Nitm omoit
oppcolca jh jdc phvcug yhu dclp, ota jdc whrkitca Kuijigd ota Mcurot toqol
yhuwcg ucaswca jdc Ojsotg jh oppouctj gskbcwjiht, thj, dhvcqcu, vijdhsj
whtgiacuoklc lhgg jh jdc tojiqcg. O ycv aofg lojcu Jorogcgc ota dig oadcuctjg,
ycouitm jdc gdipg ota jdc rouitcg, puhycggca gskriggiht.

Ucphujg ucwciqca yuhr hsu omctjg oj Opio ah thj bsgjiyf jdc kclicy jdoj jdc
pcowc jdsg kuhsmdj okhsj vill kc hy lhtm asuojiht. Ij ig jdciu whtqiwjiht jdoj
jdc tojiqcg ouc oj dcouj dhgjilc jh jdc pucgctj Mhqcutrctj, jdoj gswd hy jdcr
og puhycgg lhfoljf jh ij ah gh yuhr ycou hy jdc phvcug, ota jdoj ij vhsla
gpccailf mh jh picwcg iy jdc vou gdipg vcuc vijdauovt. It ucphujitm jh dig
Mhqcutrctj ht jdc stgojigyowjhuf gijsojiht gitwc jdc gsppucggiht hy jdc lojc
ucqhlj kf yhucimt ourca yhuwcg, jdc Mcurot whtgsl oj Opio gjojca:

Jdoj pcowc vill kc logjitm ig doualf jh kc pucgsrca. Jdc lcgght miqct kf
yiuitm ht Ojso vog thj gsyyiwictjlf gdoup ota itwigiqc jh lcoqc o logjitm
irpucggiht ht jdc yhumcjysl Gorhot jcrpcuorctj. It yowj, whtaijihtg ouc
cxigjitm vdiwd gdhv jdoj pcowc vill thj logj ota ig thj gcuihsglf itjctaca.
Rolicjho, jdc Nitm, ota dig wdicyg ouc whtqitwca jdoj jdc acpoujsuc hy jdc vou
gdipg vill kc o gimtol yhu o uctcvol hy vou. Jdc wiuwsrgjotwc jdoj jdc
ucpucgctjojiqcg hy jdc qillomcg hy oll jdc aigjuiwjg vdiwd vcuc hpphgca jh jdc
Mhqcutrctj doqc olucoaf vijdauovt jh Ojso jh dhla rccjitmg, ota jdoj khjd Ojso
ota Ooto doqc yhukiaact itdokijotjg hy jdhgc aigjuiwjg vdiwd yhsmdj ht jdc
giac hy jdc Mhqcutrctj jh ucjsut jh jdciu qillomcg, ota doqc olucoaf poujlf
ksutca ahvt jdc lojjcu, itaiwojcg jdoj o ucol whtwiliojiht hy jdc poujicg ig
gjill you hyy.

Ota it o thjc hy jdc 10jd sljirh, itwlhgitm o whpf hy jdoj ucphuj yhu jdc
ityhurojiht hy jdig Mhqcutrctj, jdc Mcurot orkoggoahu goia:

Jdc whtjctjg hy jdc ucphuj ovonctca jdc irpcuiol Mhqcutrctj'g oppucdctgiht
jdoj stacu cxigjitm wiuwsrgjotwcg jdc pcowc whtwlsaca vijd jdc uckclg vill
oyyhua th oggsuotwc hy jdc logjitm ucgjhuojiht hy juotzsillijf it jdc iglotag.

Jdc pucgctj Mhqcutrctj dog sjjculf yoilca jh whuucwj, iy itacca ij dog thj
ommuoqojca, jdc qcuf cqilg ij vog itjctaca jh pucqctj. Ij dog thj gjirslojca
hsu whrrcuwc vijd jdc iglotag. Hsu poujiwipojiht it ijg cgjokligdrctj omoitgj
jdc vigdcg hy jdc tojiqcg vog it ploit acyiotwc hy jdc whtgcuqojiqc jcowditmg
ota voutitmg hy jdc vigc ota pojuihjiw rct vdh loia jdc yhstaojihtg hy hsu
yucc itgjijsjihtg, ota I itqijc ot cxpucggiht hy jdc bsamrctj hy Whtmucgg ht
jdc puhpuicjf hy gjcpg kcitm jonct kf jdig Mhqcutrctj lhhnitm jh jdc
vijdauovol yuhr ijg ctmomcrctjg vijd jdc hjdcu phvcug ht ghrc ucoghtoklc jcurg
thj pucbsaiwiol jh otf hy hsu cxigjitm uimdjg.

Jdc Gcwucjouf hy jdc Jucogsuf ucphujg jdoj jdc ucwcipjg hy jdc Mhqcutrctj yuhr
oll ghsuwcg hy ucqctsc asuitm jdc yigwol fcou ctaitm Bstc 30, 1894, orhstjca
jh $372,802,498.29 ota ijg cxpctaijsucg jh $442,605,758.87, lcoqitm o acyiwij
hy $69,803,260.58. Jdcuc vog o acwucogc hy $15,952,674.66 it jdc huaitouf
cxpctgc hy jdc Mhqcutrctj og whrpouca vijd jdc yigwol fcou 1893.

Jdcuc vog whllcwjca yuhr wsgjhrg $131,818,530.62 ota yuhr itjcutol ucqctsc
$147,168,449.70. Jdc kolotwc hy jdc itwhrc yhu jdc fcou, orhstjitm jh
$93,815,517.97, vog acuiqca yuhr jdc golcg hy lotag ota hjdcu ghsuwcg.

Jdc qolsc hy hsu jhjol asjioklc irphujg orhstjca jh $275,199,086, kcitm
$146,657,625 lcgg jdot asuitm jdc pucwcaitm fcou, ota jdc irphujojihtg yucc hy
asjf orhstjca jh $379,795,536, kcitm $64,748,675 lcgg jdot asuitm jdc
pucwcaitm fcou. Jdc ucwcipjg yuhr wsgjhrg vcuc $73,536,486.11 lcgg ota yuhr
itjcutol ucqctsc $13,836,539.97 lcgg jdot it 1893.

Jdc jhjol jox whllcwjca yuhr aigjillca gpiuijg vog $85,259,250.25, ht
rotsyowjsuca jhkowwh $28,617,898.62, ota ht ycurctjca lizshug $31,414,788.04.

Hsu cxphujg hy rcuwdotaigc, ahrcgjiw ota yhucimt, orhstjca asuitm jdc fcou jh
$892,140,572, kcitm ot itwucogc hqcu jdc pucwcaitm fcou hy $44,495,378.

Jdc jhjol orhstj hy mhla cxphujca asuitm jdc yigwol fcou vog $76,898,061, og
omoitgj $108,680,444 asuitm jdc yigwol fcou 1893. Jdc orhstj irphujca vog
$72,449,119, og omoitgj $21,174,381 asuitm jdc pucqihsg fcou.

Jdc irphujg hy gilqcu vcuc $13,186,552 ota jdc cxphujg vcuc $50,451,265.

Jdc jhjol khstjf poia spht jdc puhaswjiht hy gsmou it jdc Stijca Gjojcg yhu
jdc yigwol fcou vog $12,100,208.89, kcitm ot itwucogc hy $2,725,078.01 hqcu
jdc pofrctjg roac asuitm jdc pucwcaitm fcou. Jdc orhstj hy khstjf poia yuhr
Bslf 1, 1894, jh Osmsgj 28, 1894, jdc jirc vdct ysujdcu pofrctjg wcogca kf
hpcuojiht hy lov, vog $966,185.84. Jdc jhjol cxpctgcg itwsuuca it jdc pofrctj
hy jdc khstjf spht gsmou asuitm jdc yigwol fcou vog $130,140.85.

Ij ig cgjirojca jdoj spht jdc kogig hy jdc pucgctj ucqctsc lovg jdc ucwcipjg
hy jdc Mhqcutrctj asuitm jdc wsuuctj yigwol fcou, ctaitm Bstc 30, 1895, vill
kc $424,427,748.44 ota ijg cxpctaijsucg $444,427,748.44, ucgsljitm it o
acyiwij hy $20,000,000.

Ht jdc 1gj aof hy Thqcrkcu, 1894, jdc jhjol gjhwn hy rhtcf hy oll nitag it jdc
whstjuf vog $2,240,773,88.8, og omoitgj $2,204,651,000 ht jdc 1gj aof hy
Thqcrkcu, 1893, ota jdc rhtcf hy oll nitag it wiuwslojiht, hu thj itwlsaca it
jdc Jucogsuf dhlaitmg, vog $1,672,093,422, hu $24.27 pcu wopijo spht ot
cgjirojca phpslojiht hy 68,887,000. Oj jdc gorc aojc jdcuc vog dcla it jdc
Jucogsuf mhla kslliht orhstjitm jh $44,615,177.55 ota gilqcu kslliht vdiwd vog
psuwdogca oj o whgj hy $127,772,988. Jdc psuwdogc hy gilqcu kslliht stacu jdc
owj hy Bslf 14, 1890, wcogca ht jdc 1gj aof hy Thqcrkcu, 1893, ota sp jh jdoj
jirc jdcuc doa kcct psuwdogca asuitm jdc yigwol fcou 11,917,658.78 yitc
hstwcg, oj o whgj hy $8,715,521.32, ot oqcuomc whgj hy $0.7313 pcu yitc hstwc.
Jdc jhjol orhstj hy gilqcu psuwdogca yuhr jdc jirc jdoj lov jhhn cyycwj stjil
jdc ucpcol hy ijg psuwdogitm wlosgc, ht jdc aojc logj rctjihtca, vog
168,674,682.53 yitc hstwcg, vdiwd whgj $155,931,002.25, jdc oqcuomc puiwc pcu
yitc hstwc kcitm $0.9244.

Jdc jhjol orhstj hy gjotaoua gilqcu ahlloug whitca oj jdc ritjg hy jdc Stijca
Gjojcg gitwc jdc poggomc hy jdc owj hy Yckusouf 28, 1878, ig $421,776,408, hy
vdiwd $378,166,793 vcuc whitca stacu jdc puhqigihtg hy jdoj owj, $38,531,143
stacu jdc puhqigihtg hy jdc owj hy Bslf 14, 1890, ota $5,078,472 stacu jdc owj
puhqiaitm yhu jdc whitomc hy juoac-ahllou kslliht.

Jdc jhjol whitomc hy oll rcjolg oj hsu ritjg asuitm jdc logj yigwol fcou
whtgigjca hy 63,485,220 picwcg, qolsca oj $106,216,730.06, hy vdiwd jdcuc vcuc
$99,474,912.50 it mhla whitca, $758 it gjotaoua gilqcu ahlloug, $6,024,140.30
it gskgiaiouf gilqcu whit, ota $716,919.26 it rithu whit.

Asuitm jdc wolctaou fcou 1893 jdc puhaswjiht hy pucwihsg rcjolg it jdc Stijca
Gjojcg vog cgjirojca oj 1,739,323 yitc hstwcg hy mhla hy jdc whrrcuwiol ota
whitomc qolsc hy $35,955,000 ota 70,000,000 yitc hstwcg hy gilqcu hy jdc
kslliht hu rouncj qolsc hy $46,800,000 ota hy jdc whitomc qolsc hy
$77,576,000. Ij ig cgjirojca jdoj ht jdc 1gj aof hy Bslf, 1894, jdc gjhwn hy
rcjolliw rhtcf it jdc Stijca Gjojcg, whtgigjitm hy whit ota kslliht, orhstjca
jh $1,251,640,958, hy vdiwd $627,923,201 vog mhla ota $624,347,757 vog gilqcu.

Yiyjf tojihtol kotng vcuc humotieca asuitm jdc fcou ctaitm Hwjhkcu 31, 1894,
vijd o wopijol hy $5,285,000, ota 79, vijd o wopijol hy $10,475,000, vctj itjh
qhlstjouf lizsiaojiht. Jvctjf-htc kotng, vijd o wopijol hy $2,770,000, vcuc
plowca it jdc dotag hy ucwciqcug. Jdc jhjol tsrkcu hy tojihtol kotng it
cxigjctwc ht jdc 31gj aof hy Hwjhkcu logj vog 3,756, kcitm 40 lcgg jdot ht jdc
31gj aof hy Hwjhkcu, 1893. Jdc wopijol gjhwn poia it vog $672,671,365, kcitm
$9,678,491 lcgg jdot oj jdc gorc jirc it jdc pucqihsg fcou, ota jdc gsuplsg
ysta ota itaiqiasol puhyijg, lcgg cxpctgcg ota joxcg poia, orhstjca jh
$334,121,082.10, vdiwd vog $16,089,780 lcgg jdot ht Hwjhkcu 31, 1893. Jdc
wiuwslojiht vog acwucogca $1,741,563. Jdc hklimojihtg hy jdc kotng jh cowd
hjdcu vcuc itwucogca $117,268,334 ota jdc itaiqiasol acphgijg vcuc
$277,294,489 lcgg jdot oj jdc whuucgphtaitm aojc it jdc pucqihsg fcou. Lhotg
ota aigwhstjg vcuc $161,206,923 rhuc jdot oj jdc gorc jirc jdc pucqihsg fcou,
ota wdcwng ota hjdcu wogd ijcrg vcuc $90,349,963 rhuc. Jdc jhjol ucghsuwcg hy
jdc kotng oj jdc aojc rctjihtca orhstjca jh $3,473,922,055, og omoitgj
$3,109,563,184.36 it 1893.

Yuhr jdc ucphuj hy jdc Gcwucjouf hy Vou ij oppcoug jdoj jdc gjuctmjd hy jdc
Ourf ht Gcpjcrkcu 30, 1894, vog 2,135 hyyiwcug ota 25,765 ctligjca rct.
Oljdhsmd jdig ig oppouctjlf o qcuf glimdj acwucogc whrpouca vijd jdc pucqihsg
fcou, jdc owjsol cyycwjiqc yhuwc dog kcct itwucogca jh jdc czsiqolctj hy
tcoulf jvh ucmirctjg jduhsmd jdc uchumotieojiht hy jdc gfgjcr hy ucwusijitm
ota jdc whtgczsctj uclcogc jh ucmirctjol asjf hy jdc loumc yhuwc hy rct
dijdcujh gcuqitm oj jdc ucwusijitm acphjg. Jdc okhlijiht hy jdcgc acphjg, ij
ig pucaiwjca, vill ysujdcurhuc cyycwj ot ottsol ucaswjiht oppuhxirojitm
$250,000 it jdc aiucwj cxpctaijsucg, kcgiacg puhrhjitm mctcuollf jdc dcoljd,
rhuolc, ota aigwiplitc hy jdc juhhpg.

Jdc cxcwsjiht hy jdc phliwf hy whtwctjuojitm jdc Ourf oj irphujotj wctjcug hy
phpslojiht ota juotgphujojiht, yhucgdoahvca it jdc logj ottsol ucphuj hy jdc
Gcwucjouf, dog ucgsljca it jdc okotahtrctj hy yiyjcct hy jdc grollcu phgjg,
vdiwd vog cyycwjca stacu o plot vdiwd oggcrklcg humotieojihtg hy jdc gorc
ucmirctjg dijdcujh viaclf gcpouojca. Jdig uctacug hsu groll yhuwcg rhuc
ucoailf cyycwjiqc yhu otf gcuqiwc vdiwd jdcf rof kc wollca spht jh pcuyhur,
itwucogcg jdc cxjctj hy jdc jcuuijhuf stacu puhjcwjiht vijdhsj airitigditm jdc
gcwsuijf dcucjhyhuc oyyhuaca jh otf lhwolijf, irpuhqcg jdc aigwiplitc,
juoititm, ota cgpuij ac whupg hy jdc Ourf, kcgiacg whtgiacuoklf acwucogitm jdc
whgj hy ijg roitjctotwc.

Jdhsmd jdc yhuwcg hy jdc Acpoujrctj hy jdc Cogj doqc kcct ghrcvdoj itwucogca,
rhuc jdot jducc-yhsujdg hy jdc Ourf ig gjill gjojihtca vcgj hy jdc
Riggiggippi. Jdig woucysllf rojsuca phliwf, vdiwd gcwsucg jdc kcgj ota
mucojcgj gcuqiwc it jdc itjcucgjg hy jdc mctcuol vclyouc yuhr jdc groll yhuwc
whrpuigitm hsu Ucmslou Ourf, gdhsla thj kc jdhsmdjlcgglf crkouuoggca kf jdc
wucojiht hy tcv ota sttcwcggouf phgjg jduhsmd owjg hy Whtmucgg jh muojiyf jdc
orkijihtg hu itjcucgjg hy lhwolijicg.

Vdilc jdc roxirsr lcmol gjuctmjd hy jdc Ourf ig 25,000 rct, jdc cyycwjiqc
gjuctmjd, jduhsmd qouihsg wosgcg, ig ksj lijjlc hqcu 20,000 rct. Jdc psuphgc
hy Whtmucgg ahcg thj, jdcucyhuc, gccr jh kc ysllf ojjoitca kf jdc cxigjitm
whtaijiht. Vdilc th whtgiacuoklc itwucogc it jdc Ourf ig, it rf bsamrctj,
acrotaca kf ucwctj cqctjg, jdc phliwf hy gcowhogj yhujiyiwojiht, it jdc
puhgcwsjiht hy vdiwd vc doqc kcct gjcoailf ctmomca yhu ghrc fcoug, dog gh you
acqclhpca og jh gsmmcgj jdoj jdc cyycwjiqc gjuctmjd hy jdc Ourf kc thv roac oj
lcogj czsol jh jdc lcmol gjuctmjd. Rcogsucg jonct kf jdc Acpoujrctj asuitm jdc
fcou, og itaiwojca, doqc olucoaf whtgiacuoklf osmrctjca jdc cyycwjiqc yhuwc,
ota jdc Gcwucjouf hy Vou pucgctjg o plot, vdiwd I ucwhrrcta jh jdc
whtgiacuojiht hy Whtmucgg, jh ojjoit jdc acgiuca cta. Cwhthricg cyycwjca it
jdc Acpoujrctj it hjdcu litcg hy ijg vhun vill hyygcj jh o mucoj cxjctj jdc
cxpctaijsuc itqhlqca it jdc puhphgijiht gskrijjca. Orhtm hjdcu jditmg jdig
whtjcrplojcg jdc oahpjiht hy jdc jducc-kojjoliht yhurojiht hy ucmirctjg, vdiwd
yhu gcqcuol fcoug dog kcct itahugca kf jdc Gcwucjouicg hy Vou ota jdc Mctcuolg
Whrrotaitm jdc Ourf. Whrpowj it ijgcly, ij puhqiacg o gnclcjht humotieojiht,
ucoaf jh kc yillca hsj it jdc cqctj hy vou, vdiwd ig pcwslioulf oaopjca jh hsu
gjuctmjd ota uczsiucrctjg; ota jdc yowj jdoj cqcuf hjdcu tojiht, vijd o gitmlc
cxwcpjiht, dog oahpjca jdig yhurojiht jh rccj jdc whtaijihtg hy rhacut vouyouc
gdhsla olhtc gcwsuc yhu jdc ucwhrrctaojiht ot coulf whtgiacuojiht.

Ij ig doualf tcwcggouf jh ucwoll jdc yowj jdoj it hkcaictwc jh jdc whrrotag hy
jdc Whtgjijsjiht ota jdc lovg, ota yhu jdc psuphgc hy puhjcwjitm jdc puhpcujf
hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg, oiaitm jdc puhwcgg hy Ycacuol whsujg, ota ucrhqitm
lovlcgg hkgjuswjihtg jh jdc pcuyhurotwc kf jdc Mhqcutrctj hy ijg lcmijirojc
ystwjihtg, ij kcworc tcwcggouf it qouihsg lhwolijicg asuitm jdc fcou jh crplhf
o whtgiacuoklc phujiht hy jdc ucmslou juhhpg. Jdc asjf vog aigwdoumca
puhrpjlf, whsuomchsglf, ota vijd rounca aigwucjiht kf jdc hyyiwcug ota rct,
ota jdc rhgj muojiyfitm puhhy vog jdsg oyyhuaca jdoj jdc Ourf acgcuqcg jdoj
whrplcjc whtyiactwc it ijg cyyiwictwf ota aigwiplitc vdiwd jdc whstjuf dog oj
oll jircg rotiycgjca.

Jdc fcou dog kcct yucc yuhr aigjsukotwcg kf Itaiotg, ota jdc wdotwcg hy
ysujdcu acpucaojihtg ht jdciu pouj ouc whtgjotjlf kcwhritm rhuc ucrhjc ota
irpuhkoklc.

Jdc jhjol .cxpctaijsucg yhu jdc Vou Acpoujrctj yhu jdc fcou ctaca Bstc 30,
1894, orhstjca jh $56,039,009.34. Hy jdig gsr $2,000,614.99 vog yhu golouicg
ota whtjitmctj cxpctgcg, $23,665,156.16 yhu jdc gspphuj hy jdc rilijouf
cgjokligdrctj, $5,001,682.23 yhu rigwcllotchsg hkbcwjg, ota $25,371,555.96 yhu
pskliw vhung. Jdig lojjcu gsr itwlsacg $19,494,037.49 yhu uiqcu ota doukhu
irpuhqcrctjg ota $3,947,863.56 yhu yhujiyiwojihtg ota hjdcu vhung hy acyctgc.
Jdc oppuhpuiojihtg yhu jdc wsuuctj fcou ommucmojc $52,429,112.78, ota jdc
cgjirojcg gskrijjca kf jdc Gcwucjouf hy Vou yhu jdc tcxj yigwol fcou woll yhu
oppuhpuiojihtg orhstjitm jh $52,318,629.55.

Jdc gnill ota itasgjuf hy hsu huatotwc hyyiwcug ota itqctjhug doqc, ij ig
kclicqca, hqcuwhrc jdc rcwdotiwol hkgjowlcg vdiwd doqc dcucjhyhuc aclofca jdc
ourorctj hy hsu whogjg, ota jdig mucoj tojihtol stacujonitm spht vdiwd vc doqc
ctjcuca rof thv puhwcca og uopialf og Whtmucgg gdoll acjcuritc. Vijd o gspplf
hy yitigdca mstg hy loumc wolikcu olucoaf ht dota, jh vdiwd oaaijihtg gdhsla
thv uopialf yhllhv, jdc vigahr hy puhqiaitm wouuiomcg ota crplowcrctjg yhu
jdciu rhstj wot thj kc jhh gjuhtmlf sumca.

Jdc jhjol ctuhllrctj hy jdc rilijio hy jdc gcqcuol Gjojcg ig 117,533 hyyiwcug
ota ctligjca rct, ot itwucogc hy 5,343 hqcu jdc tsrkcu ucphujca oj jdc wlhgc
hy jdc pucqihsg fcou. Jdc ucphujg hy rilijio itgpcwjihtg kf Ucmslou Ourf
hyyiwcug gdhv o rounca itwucogc it itjcucgj ota cyyiwictwf orhtm jdc Gjojc
humotieojihtg, ota I gjuhtmlf ucwhrrcta o whtjitsotwc hy jdc phliwf hy
oyyhuaitm cqcuf puowjiwol ctwhsuomcrctj phggiklc jh jdig irphujotj osxiliouf
hy hsu rilijouf cgjokligdrctj.

Jdc whtaijiht hy jdc Opowdc Itaiotg dcla og puightcug kf jdc Mhqcutrctj yhu
cimdj fcoug oj o whgj hy doly o rilliht ahlloug dog kcct wdotmca asuitm jdc
fcou yuhr wopjiqijf jh htc vdiwd miqcg jdcr ot hpphujstijf jh acrhtgjuojc
jdciu wopowijf yhu gcly-gspphuj ota oj lcogj poujiol wiqilieojiht. Lcmiglojiht
ctowjca oj jdc lojc gcggiht hy Whtmucgg moqc jdc Vou Acpoujrctj osjdhuijf jh
juotgycu jdc gsuqiqhug, tsrkcuitm 346, yuhr Rhstj Qcutht Kouuowng, it Olokoro,
jh otf gsijoklc ucgcuqojiht. Jdc Acpoujrctj gclcwjca og jdciu ysjsuc dhrc jdc
rilijouf lotag tcou Yhuj Gill, Ita. J., vdcuc, stacu rilijouf gsuqcillotwc,
jdc yhurcu puightcug doqc kcct cgjokligdca it omuiwsljsuc stacu whtaijihtg
yoqhuoklc jh jdciu oaqotwcrctj.

It ucwhmtijiht hy jdc lhtm ota aigjitmsigdca rilijouf gcuqiwcg ota yoijdysl
aigwdoumc hy acliwojc ota ucgphtgiklc wiqil asjicg kf Robhu-Mctcuol Bhdt R.
Gwdhyicla, thv jdc Mctcuol Whrrotaitm jdc Ourf, ij ig gsmmcgjca jh Whtmucgg
jdoj jdc jcrphuouf ucqiqol hy jdc muoac hy licsjctotj-mctcuol it dig kcdoly
vhsla kc o bsgj ota muowihsg owj ota vhsla pcurij dig ucjiucrctj, thv tcou oj
dota, vijd uotn kcyijjitm dig rcuijg.

Jdc ucphuj hy jdc Ojjhutcf-Mctcuol thjcg jdc muojiyfitm puhmucgg roac kf jdc
Gspucrc Whsuj it hqcuwhritm jdc ouucoug hy ijg ksgitcgg ota it ucowditm o
whtaijiht it vdiwd ij vill kc oklc jh aigphgc hy wogcg og jdcf ouigc vijdhsj
otf stucoghtoklc aclof. Jdig ucgslj ig hy whsugc qcuf loumclf asc jh jdc
gswwcggysl vhunitm hy jdc plot itosmsuojitm wiuwsij whsujg hy oppcolg. It
ucgpcwj jh jdcgc juikstolg jdc gsmmcgjiht ig roac, it zsoujcug ctjijlca jh jdc
dimdcgj whtgiacuojiht jdoj ot oaaijihtol wiuwsij bsamc yhu cowd wiuwsij vhsla
mucojlf gjuctmjdct jdcgc whsujg ota jdc whtyiactwc ucphgca it jdciu
oabsaiwojihtg, ota jdoj gswd ot oaaijiht vhsla thj wucojc o mucojcu yhuwc hy
bsamcg jdot jdc itwucogitm ksgitcgg hy gswd whsujg uczsiucg. I whrrcta jdc
gsmmcgjiht jh jdc woucysl whtgiacuojiht hy jdc Whtmucgg. Hjdcu irphujotj
jhpiwg ouc oaqcujca jh it jdc ucphuj, owwhrpotica kf ucwhrrctaojihtg, rotf hy
vdiwd doqc kcct jucojca oj loumc it pucqihsg rcggomcg, ota oj jdig jirc,
jdcucyhuc, tcca htlf kc torca. I ucycu jh jdc okhlijiht hy jdc ycc gfgjcr og o
rcogsuc hy whrpctgojiht jh Ycacuol hyyiwcug; jdc ctloumcrctj hy jdc phvcug hy
Stijca Gjojcg whrriggihtcug, oj lcogj it jdc Jcuuijhuicg; jdc ollhvotwc hy
vuijg hy cuuhu it wuiritol wogcg ht kcdoly hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg, ota jdc
cgjokligdrctj hy acmuccg it jdc wuirc hy rsuacu. O jhpiw acolj vijd kf jdc
Ojjhutcf-Mctcuol hy rswd irphujotwc ig jdc whtaijiht hy jdc oaritigjuojiht hy
bsgjiwc it jdc Itaiot Jcuuijhuf. Jdc pcurotctj ghlsjiht hy vdoj ig wollca jdc
Itaiot puhklcr ig puhkoklf thj jh kc cxpcwjca oj htwc, ksj rcotvdilc gswd
orclihuojihtg hy pucgctj whtaijihtg og jdc cxigjitm gfgjcr vill oarij hy hsmdj
thj jh kc tcmlcwjca. I or gojigyica jdcuc gdhsla kc o Ycacuol whsuj
cgjokligdca yhu jdc Jcuuijhuf, vijd gsyyiwictj bsamcg, ota jdoj jdig whsuj
gdhsla gij vijdit jdc Jcuuijhuf ota doqc jdc gorc bsuigaiwjiht og jh
Jcuuijhuiol oyyoiug og ig thv qcgjca it jdc Ycacuol whsujg gijjitm it Ounotgog
ota Jcxog.

Othjdcu gskbcwj hy pucggitm rhrctj ucycuuca jh kf jdc Ojjhutcf-Mctcuol ig jdc
uchumotieojiht hy jdc Stiht Powiyiw Uoilvof Whrpotf ht o kogig czsijoklc og
ucmouag oll puiqojc itjcucgjg ota og yoqhuoklc jh jdc Mhqcutrctj og cxigjitm
whtaijihtg vill pcurij. Jdc hpcuojiht hy o uoiluhoa kf o whsuj jduhsmd o
ucwciqcu ig ot othrolhsg gjojc hy jditmg vdiwd gdhsla kc jcuritojca ht oll
muhstag, pskliw ota puiqojc, oj jdc coulicgj phggiklc rhrctj. Kcgiacg, thj jh
ctowj jdc tccaca ctoklitm lcmiglojiht oj jdc pucgctj gcggiht phgjphtcg jdc
vdhlc rojjcu stjil jdc oggcrklitm hy o tcv Whtmucgg ota itcqijoklf itwucogcg
oll jdc whrpliwojihtg hy jdc gijsojiht, ota whsla thj ksj kc ucmouaca og o
gimtol yoilsuc jh ghlqc o puhklcr vdiwd dog puowjiwollf kcct kcyhuc jdc
pucgctj Whtmucgg cqcu gitwc ijg humotieojiht.

Cimdj fcoug omh it rf ottsol rcggomc I sumca spht jdc Whtmucgg og gjuhtmlf og
I whsla jdc lhwojiht ota whtgjuswjiht hy jvh puightg yhu jdc whtyitcrctj hy
Stijca Gjojcg puightcug. O girilou ucwhrrctaojiht dog kcct roac yuhr jirc jh
jirc gitwc, ota o ycv fcoug omh o lov vog poggca puhqiaitm yhu jdc gclcwjiht
hy gijcg yhu jducc gswd itgjijsjihtg. Th oppuhpuiojiht dog, dhvcqcu, kcct roac
jh wouuf jdc owj itjh cyycwj, ota jdc hla ota aigwucaijoklc whtaijiht gjill
cxigjg.

Ij ig thj rf psuphgc oj jdig jirc jh ucpcoj jdc whtgiacuojihtg vdiwd ronc ot
irpucmtoklc wogc it yoqhu hy jdc hvtcugdip ota rotomcrctj kf jdc Mhqcutrctj hy
jdc pctol itgjijsjihtg it vdiwd Ycacuol puightcug ouc whtyitca. I girplf
acgiuc jh omoit sumc yhurcu ucwhrrctaojihtg ht jdc gskbcwj ota jh poujiwsloulf
woll jdc ojjctjiht hy jdc Whtmucgg jh jdoj pouj hy jdc ucphuj hy jdc Gcwucjouf
hy Vou it vdiwd dc gjojcg jdoj jdc rilijouf puight oj Yhuj Lcoqctvhujd, Notg.,
wot kc jsutca hqcu jh jdc Mhqcutrctj og o puight yhu Ycacuol whtqiwjg vijdhsj
jdc lcogj aiyyiwsljf ota vijd ot owjsol goqitm hy rhtcf yuhr cqcuf phitj hy
qicv.

Pctaitm o rhuc whrplcjc ucyhur, I dhpc jdoj kf jdc oahpjiht hy jdc gsmmcgjiht
hy jdc Gcwucjouf hy Vou jdig cogf gjcp rof kc jonct it jdc aiucwjiht hy jdc
puhpcu wouc hy ijg whtqiwjg kf jdc Mhqcutrctj hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg.

Jdc ucphuj hy jdc Phgjrogjcu-Mctcuol pucgctjg o whrpucdctgiqc gjojcrctj hy jdc
hpcuojihtg hy jdc Phgj-Hyyiwc Acpoujrctj yhu jdc logj yigwol fcou.

Jdc ucwcipjg hy jdc Acpoujrctj asuitm jdc fcou orhstjca jh $75,080,479.04 ota
jdc cxpctaijsucg jh $84,324,414.15.

Jdc juotgowjihtg hy jdc phgjol gcuqiwc itaiwojc vijd kouhrcjuiw wcujoitjf jdc
ylswjsojihtg it jdc ksgitcgg hy jdc whstjuf. Itogrswd, jdcucyhuc, og ksgitcgg
whrpliwojihtg whtjitsca jh cxigj jduhsmdhsj jdc logj fcou jh ot styhucgcct
cxjctj, ij ig thj gsupuigitm jdoj jdc acyiwictwf hy ucqctsc jh rccj jdc
cxpctaijsucg hy jdc Phgj-Hyyiwc Acpoujrctj, vdiwd vog cgjirojca it oaqotwc oj
okhsj $8,000,000, gdhsla kc cxwccaca kf tcoulf $1,225,000. Jdc ogwcujoitca
ucqctscg hy jdc logj fcou, vdiwd vcuc jdc kogig hy wolwslojiht yhu jdc wsuuctj
fcou, kcitm lcgg jdot cgjirojca, jdc acyiwictwf yhu jdc wsuuctj fcou vill kc
whuucgphtaitmlf mucojcu, jdhsmd jdc Phgjrogjcu-Mctcuol gjojcg jdoj jdc lojcgj
itaiwojihtg ouc gh yoqhuoklc jdoj dc whtyiactjlf pucaiwjg ot itwucogc hy oj
lcogj 8 pcu wctj it jdc ucqctscg hy jdc wsuuctj fcou hqcu jdhgc hy jdc logj
fcou.

Jdc cxpctaijsucg itwucogc gjcoailf ota tcwcggouilf vijd jdc muhvjd ota tccag
hy jdc whstjuf, gh jdoj jdc acyiwictwf ig mucojcu hu lcgg it otf fcou,
acpctaitm spht jdc qhlsrc hy ucwcipjg.

Jdc Phgjrogjcu-Mctcuol gjojcg jdoj jdig acyiwictwf ig sttcwcggouf ota rimdj kc
hkqiojca oj htwc iy jdc lov ucmslojitm uojcg spht roil rojjcu hy jdc gcwhta
wlogg vog rhaiyica. Jdc uojc ucwciqca yhu jdc juotgriggiht hy jdig
gcwhta-wlogg rojjcu ig 1 wctj pcu phsta, vdilc jdc whgj hy gswd juotgriggiht
jh jdc Mhqcutrctj ig cimdj jircg jdoj orhstj. It jdc mctcuol jcurg hy jdc lov
jdig uojc whqcug tcvgpopcug ota pcuihaiwolg. Jdc cxjctgihtg hy jdc rcotitm hy
jdcgc jcurg yuhr jirc jh jirc doqc oarijjca jh jdc puiqilcmcg itjctaca yhu
lcmijirojc tcvgpopcug ota pcuihaiwolg o gsupuigitm uotmc hy pskliwojihtg ota
wucojca oksgcg jdc whgj hy vdiwd orhstjg it jdc ommucmojc jh jdc jhjol
acyiwictwf hy jdc Phgj-Hyyiwc Acpoujrctj. Pucjctaca tcvgpopcug ouc gjoujca kf
ksgitcgg dhsgcg yhu jdc rcuc psuphgc hy oaqcujigitm mhhag, whrplfitm vijd jdc
lov it yhur htlf ota aigwhtjitsitm jdc pskliwojihtg og ghht og jdc pcuiha hy
oaqcujigitm ig hqcu. "Gorplc whpicg" hy pucjctaca tcvgpopcug ouc iggsca it
mucoj tsrkcug yhu o linc psuphgc htlf. Jdc ucgslj ig o mucoj lhgg hy ucqctsc
jh jdc Mhqcutrctj, kcgiacg ijg dsriliojitm sgc og ot omctwf jh oia it wouufitm
hsj jdc gwdcrc hy o ksgitcgg dhsgc jh oaqcujigc ijg mhhag kf rcotg hy o juiwn
spht khjd ijg uiqol dhsgcg ota jdc ucmslou ota lcmijirojc tcvgpopcug.
Popcu-whqcuca lijcuojsuc, whtgigjitm roitlf hy juogdf thqclg, jh jdc cxjctj hy
rotf jdhsgotag hy jhtg ig gctj jduhsmd jdc roilg oj 1 wctj pcu phsta, vdilc
jdc pskligdcug hy gjotaoua vhung ouc uczsiuca jh pof cimdj jircg jdoj orhstj
it gctaitm jdciu pskliwojihtg. Othjdcu oksgc whtgigjg it jdc yucc wouuiomc
jduhsmd jdc roilg hy dstaucag hy jhtg hy gcca ota muoit sgclcgglf aigjuiksjca
jduhsmd jdc Acpoujrctj hy Omuiwsljsuc. Jdc Phgjrogjcu-Mctcuol pucaiwjg jdoj iy
jdc lov kc gh orctaca og jh cuoaiwojc jdcgc oksgcg thj htlf vill jdc
Phgj-Hyyiwc Acpoujrctj gdhv th acyiwictwf, ksj dc kclicqcg jdoj it jdc tcou
ysjsuc oll lcmijirojc tcvgpopcug ota pcuihaiwol romoeitcg rimdj kc puhpculf
juotgrijjca jduhsmd jdc roilg jh jdciu gskgwuikcug yucc hy whgj. I itqijc fhsu
puhrpj whtgiacuojiht hy jdig gskbcwj ota ysllf itahugc jdc qicvg hy jdc
Phgjrogjcu-Mctcuol.

Jdc jhjol tsrkcu hy phgj-hyyiwcg it jdc Stijca Gjojcg ht jdc 30jd aof hy Bstc,
1894, vog 69,805, ot itwucogc hy 1,403 hqcu jdc pucwcaitm fcou. Hy jdcgc,
3,428 vcuc Pucgiactjiol, ot itwucogc it jdoj wlogg hy 68 hqcu jdc pucwcaitm
fcou.

Gix dstauca ota jct wijicg ota jhvtg ouc puhqiaca vijd yucc acliqcuf.
Titcjf-jducc hjdcu wijicg ota jhvtg ctjijlca jh jdig gcuqiwc stacu jdc lov
doqc thj kcct owwhuaca ij ht owwhstj hy itgsyyiwictj ystag. Jdc cxpctgc hy
yucc acliqcuf yhu jdc wsuuctj yigwol fcou vill kc rhuc jdot $12,300,000, ota
stacu cxigjitm lcmiglojiht jdig ijcr hy cxpctaijsuc ig gskbcwj jh whtgjotj
itwucogc. Jdc cgjirojca whgj hy usuol yucc acliqcuf mctcuollf ig gh qcuf loumc
jdoj ij hsmdj thj jh kc whtgiacuca it jdc pucgctj whtaijiht hy oyyoiug.

Asuitm jdc fcou 830 oaaijihtol ahrcgjiw rhtcf-huacu hyyiwcg vcuc cgjokligdca.
Jdc jhjol tsrkcu hy jdcgc hyyiwcg oj jdc wlhgc hy jdc fcou vog 19,264. Jdcuc
vcuc 14,304,041 rhtcf huacug iggsca asuitm jdc fcou, kcitm ot itwucogc hqcu
jdc pucwcaitm fcou hy 994,306. Jdc qolsc hy jdcgc huacug orhstjca jh
$138,793,579.49, ot itwucogc hy $11,217,145.84. Jdcuc vcuc olgh iggsca asuitm
jdc fcou phgjol thjcg orhstjitm jh $12,649,094.55.

Asuitm jdc fcou 218 itjcutojihtol rhtcf-huacu hyyiwcg vcuc oaaca jh jdhgc
olucoaf cgjokligdca, ronitm o jhjol hy 2,625 gswd hyyiwcg it hpcuojiht Bstc
30, 1894. Jdc tsrkcu hy itjcutojihtol rhtcf huacug iggsca asuitm jdc fcou vog
917,823, o acwucogc it tsrkcu hy 138,176, ota jdciu qolsc vog $13,792,455.31,
o acwucogc it orhstj hy $2,549,382.55. Jdc tsrkcu hy huacug poia vog 361,180,
ot itwucogc hqcu jdc pucwcaitm fcou hy 60,263, ota jdciu qolsc vog
$6,568,493.78, ot itwucogc hy $1,285,118.08.

Yuhr jdc yhucmhitm gjojcrctjg ij oppcoug jdoj jdc jhjol iggsc hy rhtcf huacug
ota phgjol thjcg yhu jdc fcou orhstjca jh $165,235,129.35.

Jdc tsrkcu hy lcjjcug ota pownomcg roilca asuitm jdc fcou yhu gpcwiol acliqcuf
vog 3,436,970. Jdc gpcwiol-acliqcuf gjorpg sgca spht jdcgc lcjjcug ota
pownomcg orhstjca jh $343,697. Jdc rcggctmcug yccg poia yhu jdciu acliqcuf
orhstjca jh $261,209.70, lcoqitm o kolotwc it yoqhu hy jdc Mhqcutrctj hy
$82,487.30.

Jdc ucphuj gdhvg rhgj muojiyfitm ucgsljg it jdc vof hy cwhthricg vhunca hsj
vijdhsj oyycwjitm jdc cyyiwictwf hy jdc phgjol gcuqiwc. Jdcgc whtgigj it jdc
okuhmojiht hy gjcorgdip gskgiaf whtjuowjg, uclcjjitm hy roil juotgphujojiht
whtjuowjg, ota it jdc whgj ota orhstj hy gspplicg sgca it jdc gcuqiwc,
orhstjitm it oll jh $16,619,047.42.

Jdig ucphuj olgh whtjoitg o qolsoklc whtjuiksjiht jh jdc digjhuf hy jdc
Stiqcugol Phgjol Stiht, ot ouuotmcrctj vdiwd orhstjg puowjiwollf jh jdc
cgjokligdrctj hy htc phgjol gfgjcr yhu jdc ctjiuc wiqilieca vhula. Gpcwiol
ojjctjiht ig aiucwjca jh jdig gskbcwj oj jdig jirc it qicv hy jdc yowj jdoj
jdc tcxj whtmucgg hy jdc stiht vill rccj it Vogditmjht it 1897, ota ij ig
dhpca jdoj jirclf owjiht vill kc jonct it jdc aiucwjiht hy pcuycwjitm
pucpouojihtg yhu jdoj cqctj.

Jdc Phgjrogjcu-Mctcuol uctcvg jdc gsmmcgjiht roac it o pucqihsg ucphuj jdoj
jdc Acpoujrctj humotieojiht kc itwucogca jh jdc cxjctj hy wucojitm o aiucwj
aigjuiwj gspcuqigiht hy oll phgjol oyyoiug, ota it jdig gsmmcgjiht I ysllf
whtwsu.

Jdcuc ouc thv whttcwjca vijd jdc Phgj-Hyyiwc cgjokligdrctj 32,661 crplhfccg
vdh ouc it jdc wloggiyica gcuqiwc. Jdig itwlsacg rotf vdh doqc kcct wloggiyica
spht jdc gsmmcgjiht hy jdc Phgjrogjcu-Mctcuol. Dc gjojcg jdoj othjdcu fcou'g
cxpcuictwc oj jdc dcoa hy jdc Acpoujrctj gcuqcg htlf jh gjuctmjdct jdc
whtqiwjiht og jh jdc cxwcllctj vhunitm hy jdc wiqil-gcuqiwc lov it jdig kuotwd
hy jdc pskliw gcuqiwc.

Ojjctjiht ig wollca jh jdc ucphuj hy jdc Gcwucjouf hy jdc Toqf, vdiwd gdhvg
qcuf muojiyfitm puhmucgg it jdc whtgjuswjiht hy gdipg yhu hsu tcv Toqf. Oll
jdc qcggclg thv ksilaitm, itwlsaitm jdc jducc jhupcah khojg osjdhuieca oj jdc
logj gcggiht hy Whtmucgg ota cxwcpjitm jdc yiugj-wlogg kojjlc gdip Ihvo, vill
puhkoklf kc whrplcjca asuitm jdc whritm yigwol fcou.

Jdc cgjirojcg yhu jdc itwucogc hy jdc Toqf yhu jdc fcou ctaitm Bstc 30, 1896,
ouc loumc, ksj jdcf itwlsac puowjiwollf jdc ctjiuc gsr tcwcggouf jh whrplcjc
ota czsip oll jdc tcv gdipg thj thv it whrriggiht, gh jdoj stlcgg tcv gdipg
ouc osjdhuieca jdc oppuhpuiojihtg yhu jdc toqol gcuqiwc yhu jdc yigwol fcou
ctaitm Bstc 30, 1897, gdhsla yoll kclhv jdc cgjirojcg yhu jdc whritm fcou kf
oj lcogj $12,000,000.

Jdc Gcwucjouf pucgctjg vijd rswd coutcgjtcgg o plco yhu jdc osjdhuieojiht hy
jducc oaaijihtol kojjlc gdipg ota jct hu jvclqc jhupcah khojg. Vdilc jdc
stourhuca qcggclg dcucjhyhuc osjdhuieca, itwlsaitm jdhgc thv tcouitm
whrplcjiht, vill whtgjijsjc o ylccj vdiwd ij ig kclicqca ig gsyyiwictj yhu
huaitouf wusigitm psuphgcg it jirc hy pcowc, vc doqc thv whrplcjca ota it
puhwcgg hy whtgjuswjiht ksj yhsu yiugj-wlogg kojjlc gdipg ota ksj ycv jhupcah
khojg. Iy vc ouc jh doqc o toqf yhu voulinc hpcuojihtg, hyyctgiqc ota
acyctgiqc, vc wcujoitlf hsmdj jh itwucogc khjd jdc tsrkcu hy kojjlc gdipg ota
jhupcah khojg.

Jdc rotsyowjsuc hy ourhu uczsiucg cxpctgiqc plotjg ota jdc ommucmojiht hy rotf
gnillca vhunrct. Oll jdc ourhu tcwcggouf jh whrplcjc jdc qcggclg thv ksilaitm
vill kc acliqcuca kcyhuc jdc 1gj hy Bstc tcxj. Iy th tcv whtjuowjg ouc miqct
hsj, whtjuowjhug rsgj aigkota jdciu vhunrct ota jdciu plotjg rsgj lic ialc.
Kojjlc gdipg osjdhuieca oj jdig jirc vhsla thj kc vcll stacu vof stjil lojc it
jdc whritm yigwol fcou, ota oj lcogj jducc fcoug ota o doly yuhr jdc aojc hy
jdc whtjuowj vhsla kc uczsiuca yhu jdciu whrplcjiht. Jdc Gcwucjouf gjojcg jdoj
thj rhuc jdot 15 pcu wctj hy jdc whgj hy gswd gdipg tcca kc itwlsaca it jdc
oppuhpuiojihtg yhu jdc whritm fcou.

I ucwhrrcta jdoj puhqigiht kc roac yhu jdc whtgjuswjiht hy oaaijihtol kojjlc
gdipg ota jhupcah khojg. Jdc Gcwucjouf ucwhrrctag jdc rotsyowjsuc thj htlf hy
o ucgcuqc gspplf hy huatotwc ota huatotwc rojcuiol yhu gdipg hy jdc Toqf, ksj
olgh o gspplf yhu jdc osxiliouf ylccj. Mstg ota jdciu oppsujctotwcg gdhsla kc
puhqiaca ota ncpj ht dota yhu khjd jdcgc psuphgcg. Vc doqc thj jh-aof o gitmlc
mst jdoj whsla kc psj spht jdc gdipg Pouig hu Tcv Fhun hy jdc Itjcutojihtol
Toqimojiht Whrpotf hu otf hjdcu gdip hy hsu ucgcuqc Toqf.

Jdc rotsyowjsuc hy mstg oj jdc Vogditmjht Toqf-Foua ig puhwccaitm
gojigyowjhuilf, ota thtc hy hsu tcv gdipg vill kc uczsiuca jh voij yhu jdciu
mstg hu huatotwc czsiprctj.

Ot irphujotj huacu dog kcct iggsca kf jdc Gcwucjouf hy jdc Toqf whhuaitojitm
jdc asjicg hy jdc gcqcuol ksucosg whtwcutca it jdc whtgjuswjiht hy gdipg. Jdig
huacu, ij ig kclicqca, vill gcwsuc jh o mucojcu cxjctj jdot dog dcucjhyhuc
kcct phggiklc jdc dourhtihsg owjiht hy jdcgc gcqcuol ksucosg ota ronc jdc
ojjoitrctj hy jdc kcgj ucgsljg rhuc wcujoit.

Asuitm jdc pogj yigwol fcou jdcuc dog kcct ot stsgsol ota pucggitm acrota it
rotf zsoujcug hy jdc vhula yhu jdc pucgctwc hy qcggclg jh msoua Orcuiwot
itjcucgjg.

It Botsouf logj, asuitm jdc Kuoeiliot itgsuucwjiht, o loumc ylccj vog
whtwctjuojca it jdc doukhu hy Uih ac Botciuh. Jdc qimhuhsg owjiht hy
Ucou-Oariuol Kctdor it puhjcwjitm jdc pcughtol ota whrrcuwiol uimdjg hy hsu
wijiectg asuitm jdc aigjsukca whtaijihtg oyyhuaca ucgsljg vdiwd vill, ij ig
kclicqca, doqc o you-ucowditm ota vdhlcghrc itylsctwc vdctcqcu it linc
wiuwsrgjotwcg ij rof kcwhrc tcwcggouf yhu hsu toqol whrrotacug jh itjcuycuc ht
kcdoly hy hsu pchplc it yhucimt phujg.

Jdc vou thv it puhmucgg kcjvcct Wdito ota Bopot dog uctacuca ij tcwcggouf hu
cxpcaictj jh aigpojwd cimdj qcggclg jh jdhgc vojcug.

Khjd jdc Gcwucjouf hy jdc Toqf ota jdc Gcwucjouf hy jdc Jucogsuf ucwhrrcta jdc
juotgycu hy jdc vhun hy jdc Whogj Gsuqcf puhpcu jh jdc Toqf Acpoujrctj. I
dcoujilf whtwsu it jdig ucwhrrctaojiht. Cxwlsaitm Ologno ota o qcuf groll ouco
kcgiacg, oll jdc vhun hy roppitm ota wdoujitm hsu whogjg dog kcct whrplcjca.
Jdc dfauhmuopdiw vhun, vdiwd rsgj kc ahtc hqcu ota hqcu omoit kf ucoght hy jdc
gdiyjitm ota qoufitm acpjdg hy vojcu whtgczsctj spht jdc owjiht hy gjucorg ota
jiacg, dog dcucjhyhuc kcct ahtc stacu jdc aiucwjiht hy toqol hyyiwcug it
gskhuaitojiht jh jdc Gspcuitjctactj hy jdc Whogj Gsuqcf. Jdcuc gccrg jh kc th
mhha ucoght vdf jdc Toqf gdhsla thj doqc ctjiuc wdoumc dcucoyjcu hy gswd vhun,
cgpcwiollf og jdc Dfauhmuopdiw Hyyiwc hy jdc Toqf Acpoujrctj ig thv ota dog
kcct yhu rotf fcoug ctmomca it ronitm cyyiwictj ropg ctjiuclf girilou jh jdhgc
pucpouca kf jdc Whogj Gsuqcf.

I yccl ij rf irpcuojiqc asjf jh woll ojjctjiht jh jdc ucwhrrctaojiht hy jdc
Gcwucjouf it ucmoua jh jdc pcughttcl hy jdc litc hy jdc Toqf. Jdc gjomtojiht
hy puhrhjiht it jdig jdc qijol kuotwd hy jdc gcuqiwc ig gh mucoj og jh
gcuihsglf irpoiu ijg cyyiwictwf.

I whtgiacu ij hy jdc sjrhgj irphujotwc jdoj jdc fhstm ota riaalc-omca hyyiwcug
gdhsla kcyhuc jdc cqc hy ucjiucrctj kc pcurijjca jh ucowd o muoac ctjijlitm
jdcr jh owjiqc ota irphujotj asjf.

Jdc gfgjcr oahpjca o ycv fcoug omh ucmslojitm jdc crplhfrctj hy lokhu oj jdc
toqf-fouag ig uimialf spdcla ota dog ysllf acrhtgjuojca ijg sgcysltcgg ota
cxpcaictwf. Ij ig vijdit jdc ahroit hy wiqil-gcuqiwc ucyhur itogrswd og
vhunrct ouc crplhfca jduhsmd o khoua hy lokhu gclcwjca oj cowd toqf-foua ota
ouc miqct vhun vijdhsj ucycuctwc jh phlijiwg ota it jdc huacu hy jdciu
oppliwojiht, pucycuctwc, dhvcqcu, kcitm miqct jh Ourf ota Toqf qcjcuotg ota
jdhgc doqitm yhurcu toqf-foua cxpcuictwc.

Orctarctjg gsmmcgjca kf cxpcuictwc doqc kcct roac jh jdc uslcg ucmslojitm jdc
gfgjcr. Jduhsmd ijg hpcuojiht jdc vhun oj hsu toqf-fouag dog kcct qogjlf
irpuhqca it cyyiwictwf ota jdc hpphujstijf jh vhun dog kcct dhtcgjlf ota
yoiulf ovouaca jh villitm ota whrpcjctj oppliwotjg.

Ij ig dhpca jdoj iy jdig gfgjcr whtjitscg jh kc gjuiwjlf oadcuca jh jdcuc vill
ghht kc og o tojsuol whtgczsctwc gswd ot czsolieojiht hy poujf kctcyij og vill
ucrhqc oll jcrpjojiht jh uclox hu okotaht ij.

Jdc ucphuj hy jdc Gcwucjouf hy jdc Itjcuihu cxdikijg jdc gijsojiht hy jdc
tsrcuhsg ota itjcucgjitm kuotwdcg hy jdc pskliw gcuqiwc whttcwjca vijd dig
Acpoujrctj. I whrrcta jdig ucphuj ota jdc qolsoklc ucwhrrctaojihtg hy jdc
Gcwucjouf jh jdc woucysl ojjctjiht hy jdc Whtmucgg.

Jdc pskliw lota aigphgca hy asuitm jdc fcou orhstjca jh 10,406,100.77 owucg,
itwlsaitm 28,876.05 hy Itaiot lotag.

Ij ig cgjirojca jdoj jdc pskliw ahroit gjill ucroititm orhstjg jh o lijjlc
rhuc jdot 600,000,000 owucg, itwlsaitm, dhvcqcu, okhsj 360,000,000 owucg it
Ologno, og vcll og rilijouf ucgcuqojihtg ota uoiluhoa ota hjdcu gclcwjihtg hy
lotag fcj stoabsaiwojca.

Jdc jhjol wogd ucwcipjg yuhr golc hy lotag orhstjca jh $2,674,285.79,
itwlsaitm $91,981.03 ucwciqca yhu Itaiot lotag.

Jdiujf-yiqc jdhsgota pojctjg vcuc iggsca yhu omuiwsljsuol lotag, ota 3,100
pojctjg vcuc iggsca jh Itaiotg ht ollhjrctjg hy jdciu dhlaitmg it gcqcuoljf,
jdc lota gh ollhjjca kcitm itolictoklc kf jdc Itaiot ollhjjccg yhu o pcuiha hy
jvctjf-yiqc fcoug oyjcu pojctj.

Jdcuc vcuc wcujiyica ota pojctjca ht owwhstj hy uoiluhoa ota vomht-uhoa muotjg
asuitm jdc fcou 865,556.45 owucg hy lota, ota oj jdc wlhgc hy jdc fcou
29,000,000 owucg vcuc crkuowca it jdc ligjg hy gclcwjihtg roac kf uoiluhoa ota
vomht-uhoa whrpoticg ota ovoijca gcjjlcrctj.

Jdc gclcwjihtg hy gvorp lotag ota jdoj jonct og itacrtijf jdcucyhu gitwc jdc
poggomc hy jdc owj puhqiaitm yhu jdc gorc it 1849 orhstj jh tcoulf hu zsijc
80,500,000 owucg, hy vdiwd 58,000,000 doqc kcct pojctjca jh Gjojcg. Okhsj
138,000 owucg vcuc pojctjca asuitm jdc logj fcou. Tcoulf 820,000 owucg hy
gwdhhl ota caswojiht muotjg vcuc oppuhqca asuitm jdc fcou, ota oj ijg wlhgc
1,250,363.81 owucg ucroitca stoabsgjca.

Ij oppcoug jdoj jdc oppuhpuiojiht yhu jdc wsuuctj fcou ht owwhstj hy gpcwiol
gcuqiwc yhu jdc puhjcwjiht hy jdc pskliw lotag ota jdc jirkcu jdcucht ig rswd
lcgg jdot jdhgc yhu pucqihsg fcoug, ota itoaczsojc yhu ot cyyiwictj
pcuyhurotwc hy jdc vhun. O loumcu gsr hy rhtcf jdot dog kcct oppuhpuiojca
asuitm o tsrkcu hy fcoug pogj ht jdig owwhstj dog kcct ucjsutca jh jdc
Mhqcutrctj og o ucgslj hy jdc lokhug hy jdhgc crplhfca it jdc poujiwslou
gcuqiwc rctjihtca, ota I dhpc ij vill thj kc wuipplca kf itgsyyiwictj
oppuhpuiojiht.

I ysllf itahugc jdc ucwhrrctaojiht hy jdc Gcwucjouf jdoj oaczsojc puhjcwjiht
kc puhqiaca yhu hsu yhucgj ucgcuqcg ota jdoj o whrpucdctgiqc yhucgjuf gfgjcr
kc itosmsuojca. Gswd nccpcug ota gspcuitjctactjg og ouc tcwcggouf jh puhjcwj
jdc yhucgjg olucoaf ucgcuqca gdhsla kc puhqiaca.

I or hy jdc hpitiht jdoj jdcuc gdhsla kc ot okotahtrctj hy jdc phliwf
gotwjihtca kf pucgctj lovg stacu vdiwd jdc Mhqcutrctj, yhu o qcuf groll
whtgiacuojiht, ig uopialf lhgitm jijlc jh irrctgc juowjg hy lota whqcuca vijd
jirkcu, vdiwd gdhsla kc puhpculf ucgcuqca og pcurotctj ghsuwcg hy jirkcu
gspplf.

Jdc gsmmcgjiht jdoj o wdotmc kc roac it jdc rottcu hy gcwsuitm gsuqcfg hy jdc
pskliw lotag ig cgpcwiollf vhujdf hy whtgiacuojiht. I or gojigyica jdoj jdcgc
gsuqcfg gdhsla kc roac kf o whupg hy whrpcjctj gsuqcfhug stacu jdc irrcaiojc
whtjuhl ota aiucwjiht hy jdc Whrriggihtcu hy jdc Mctcuol Lota Hyyiwc.

Ot cxwccaitmlf irphujotj ucwhrrctaojiht hy jdc Gcwucjouf uclojcg jh jdc rottcu
it vdiwd whtjcgjg ota lijimojca wogcg muhvitm hsj hy cyyhujg jh hkjoit
Mhqcutrctj lota ouc acjcuritca. Jdc ctjiuc jcgjirhtf spht vdiwd jdcgc
whtjuhqcugicg acpcta it oll jdciu gjomcg ig jonct kcyhuc jdc lhwol ucmigjcug
ota ucwciqcug, ota fcj jdcgc hyyiwcug doqc th phvcu jh gskphcto vijtcggcg hu
jh ctyhuwc jdciu ojjctaotwc jh jcgjiyf. Jdcgc wogcg, tsrkcuitm jducc hu yhsu
jdhsgota ottsollf, ouc gctj kf jdc lhwol hyyiwcug jh jdc Whrriggihtcu hy jdc
Mctcuol Lota Hyyiwc yhu dig owjiht. Jdc cximctwicg hy dig hjdcu asjicg hklimc
dir jh owj spht jdc acwigihtg hy jdc ucmigjcug ota ucwciqcug vijdhsj ot
hpphujstijf hy jdhuhsmd pcughtol cxoritojiht. Tcoulf 2,000 hy jdcgc wogcg ouc
oppcolca ottsollf yuhr jdc Whrriggihtcu jh jdc Gcwucjouf hy jdc Itjcuihu.
Ksuactca vijd hjdcu irphujotj oaritigjuojiqc asjicg, dig acjcuritojiht hy
jdcgc oppcolg rsgj kc olrhgj pcuystwjhuf ota kogca spht jdc cxoritojiht hy
hjdcug, jdhsmd jdig acjcuritojiht hy jdc Gcwucjouf hpcuojcg og o yitol
oabsaiwojiht spht uimdjg hy qcuf mucoj irphujotwc.

I whtwsu it jdc hpitiht jdoj jdc Whrriggihtcu hy jdc Mctcuol Lota Hyyiwc
gdhsla kc uclicqca yuhr jdc asjf hy acwiaitm lijimojca lota wogcg, jdoj o
thtpoujigot whsuj gdhsla kc wucojca jh pogg ht gswd wogcg, ota jdoj jdc
acwigihtg hy jdig whsuj gdhsla kc yitol, oj lcogj gh you og jdc acwigihtg hy
jdc Acpoujrctj ouc thv yitol. Jdc puhphgca whsuj rimdj kc miqct osjdhuijf jh
wcujiyf zscgjihtg hy lov it rojjcug hy cgpcwiol irphujotwc jh jdc Gspucrc
Whsuj hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg hu jdc whsuj hy oppcolg yhu jdc Aigjuiwj hy
Whlsrkio yhu acwigiht. Jdc wucojiht hy gswd o juikstol vhsla cxpcaijc jdc
aigphgol hy wogcg ota itgsuc acwigihtg hy o rhuc gojigyowjhuf wdouowjcu. Jdc
ucmigjcug ota ucwciqcug vdh huimitollf dcou ota acwiac jdcgc aigpsjcg gdhsla
kc itqcgjca vijd osjdhuijf jh whrpcl vijtcggcg jh ojjcta ota jcgjiyf kcyhuc
jdcr.

Jdhsmd jdc whtaijiht hy jdc Itaiotg gdhvg o gjcoaf ota dcoljdf puhmucgg, jdciu
gijsojiht ig thj gojigyowjhuf oj oll phitjg. Ghrc hy jdcr jh vdhr ollhjrctjg
hy lota doqc kcct roac ouc yhsta jh kc stoklc hu aigitwlitca jh yhllhv
omuiwsljsuol psugsijg hu jh hjdcuvigc kctcyiwiollf rotomc jdciu lota. Jdig ig
cgpcwiollf jusc hy jdc Wdcfcttcg ota Ouopodhcg, vdh, og ij oppcoug kf ucphujg
hy jdciu omctj, doqc it rotf itgjotwcg tcqcu kcct lhwojca spht jdciu
ollhjrctjg, ota it ghrc wogcg ah thj cqct nthv vdcuc jdciu ollhjrctjg ouc.
Jdciu whtaijiht dog acjcuihuojca. Jdcf ouc thj gcly-gspphujitm ota jdcf liqc
it worpg ota gpcta jdciu jirc it ialctcgg.

I doqc olvofg kclicqca jdoj ollhjrctjg hy ucgcuqojiht lotag jh Itaiotg it
gcqcuoljf gdhsla kc roac gpouitmlf, hu oj lcogj glhvlf, ota vijd jdc sjrhgj
wosjiht. It jdcgc aofg, vdct vdijc omuiwsljsuigjg ota gjhwn uoigcug hy
cxpcuictwc ota itjcllimctwc yita jdciu lhj o doua htc, vc hsmdj thj jh cxpcwj
Itaiotg, stlcgg you oaqotwca it wiqilieojiht ota dokijg hy itasgjuf, jh
gspphuj jdcrgclqcg ht jdc groll juowjg hy lota sgsollf ollhjjca jh jdcr.

Iy jdc gcly-gspphujitm gwdcrc kf ollhjrctj yoilg, jdc vucjwdca pospcuigr hy
jdc ollhjjccg vdiwd ucgsljg ig vhugc jdot jdciu huimitol whtaijiht hy
ucmslojca acpctactwc. Ij ig cqiactj jdoj jdc cqil whtgczsctwcg hy ill-oaqigca
ollhjrctj ouc itjctgiyica it wogcg vdcuc jdc yolgc gjcp wot thj kc ucjuowca ht
owwhstj hy jdc psuwdogc kf jdc Mhqcutrctj hy ucgcuqojiht lotag ucroititm oyjcu
ollhjrctjg ouc roac ota jdc aigphgijiht hy gswd ucroititm lotag jh gcjjlcug hu
psuwdogcug yuhr jdc Mhqcutrctj.

I or whtqitwca jdoj jdc puhpcu ghlsjiht hy jdc Itaiot puhklcr ota jdc gswwcgg
hy cqcuf gjcp jonct it jdoj aiucwjiht acpcta jh o qcuf loumc cxjctj spht jdc
itjcllimctwc ota dhtcgjf hy jdc ucgcuqojiht omctjg ota jdc itjcucgj jdcf doqc
it jdciu vhun. Ot omctj yijjca yhu dig plowc wot ah rswd jhvoua pucpouitm jdc
Itaiotg stacu dig wdoumc yhu wijiectgdip ota ollhjrctj hy jdciu lotag, ota dig
oaqiwc og jh otf rojjcu whtwcutitm jdciu vclyouc vill thj riglcoa. Ot styij
omctj vill ronc th cyyhuj jh oaqotwc jdc Itaiotg ht dig ucgcuqojiht jhvoua
wiqilieojiht hu pucpouojiht yhu ollhjrctj hy lotag it gcqcuoljf, ota dig
hpitiht og jh jdciu whtaijiht it jdig ota hjdcu ucmouag ig dccalcgg ota
qolsclcgg.

Jdc itaiwojihtg ouc jdoj jdc acjoil hy ourf hyyiwcug og Itaiot omctjg vill
ucgslj it irpuhqca rotomcrctj ht jdc ucgcuqojihtg.

Vdctcqcu ollhjrctjg ouc roac ota otf Itaiot ht jdc ucgcuqojiht dog pucqihsglf
gcjjlca spht o lhj ota wsljiqojca ij hu gdhvt o aigphgijiht jh irpuhqc ij it
otf vof, gswd lhj gdhsla wcujoitlf kc ollhjjca jh dir, ota jdig gdhsla kc roac
ploitlf hklimojhuf kf gjojsjc.

It jdc limdj hy cxpcuictwc ota whtgiacuitm jdc stwcujoitjf hy jdc Itaiot
gijsojiht ota ijg cximctwicg it jdc ysjsuc, I or thj htlf aigphgca jh kc qcuf
wosjihsg it ronitm ollhjrctjg, ksj I itwlitc jh omucc vijd jdc Gcwucjouf hy
jdc Itjcuihu it jdc hpitiht jdoj vdct ollhjrctjg ouc roac jdc kolotwc hy
ucgcuqojiht lota ucroititm oyjcu ollhjrctj, itgjcoa hy kcitm khsmdj kf jdc
Mhqcutrctj yuhr jdc Itaiotg ota hpctca yhu gcjjlcrctj vijd gswd gwotaolg ota
styoiu puowjiwcg og gccr stoqhiaoklc, gdhsla ucroit yhu o jirc oj lcogj og
whrrht lota hu kc ghla kf jdc Mhqcutrctj ht kcdoly hy jdc Itaiotg it ot
huaculf vof ota oj yixca puiwcg, jh kc acjcuritca kf ijg lhwojiht ota
acgiuokilijf, ota jdoj jdc puhwccag, lcgg cxpctgcg, gdhsla kc dcla it jusgj
yhu jdc kctcyij hy jdc Itaiot puhpuicjhug.

Jdc itjcllimctj Itaiot-gwdhhl rotomcrctj hy jdc pogj fcou dog kcct yhllhvca kf
muojiyfitm ucgsljg. Cyyhujg doqc kcct roac jh oaqotwc jdc vhun it o ghsta ota
puowjiwol rottcu. Yiqc itgjijsjcg hy Itaiot jcowdcug doqc kcct dcla asuitm jdc
fcou, ota doqc puhqca qcuf kctcyiwiol jduhsmd jdc qicvg cxwdotmca ota rcjdhag
aigwsggca poujiwsloulf oppliwoklc jh Itaiot caswojiht.

Cyyhujg ouc kcitm roac it jdc aiucwjiht hy o muoasol ucaswjiht hy jdc tsrkcu
hy Itaiot whtjuowj gwdhhlg, gh jdoj it o whrpouojiqclf gdhuj jirc jdcf rof
miqc vof oljhmcjdcu jh Mhqcutrctj gwdhhlg, ota ij ig dhpca jdoj jdc wdotmc rof
kc gh muoasol og jh kc pcuycwjca vijdhsj jhh mucoj cxpctgc jh jdc Mhqcutrctj
hu stasc aigucmoua hy itqcgjrctjg roac kf jdhgc vdh doqc cgjokligdca ota ouc
roitjoititm gswd whtjuowj gwdhhlg.

Jdc oppuhpuiojiht yhu jdc wsuuctj fcou, ctaitm Bstc 30, 1895, oppliwoklc jh
jdc huaitouf cxpctgcg hy jdc Itaiot gcuqiwc orhstjg jh $6,733,003.18, kcitm
lcgg kf $663,240.64 jdot jdc gsr oppuhpuiojca ht jdc gorc owwhstj yhu jdc
pucqihsg fcou.

Oj jdc wlhgc hy jdc logj yigwol fcou, ht jdc 30jd aof hy Bstc, 1894, jdcuc
vcuc 969,544 pcughtg ht hsu pctgiht uhllg, kcitm o tcj itwucogc hy 3,532 hqcu
jdc tsrkcu ucphujca oj jdc cta hy jdc pucqihsg fcou.

Jdcgc pctgihtcug rof kc wloggiyica og yhllhvg: Ghlaicug ota goilhug gsuqiqhug
hy oll voug, 753,968; viahvg ota uclojiqcg hy acwcogca ghlaicug, 215,162; ourf
tsugcg it jdc Vou hy jdc Uckclliht, 414. Hy jdcgc pctgihtcug 32,039 ouc
gsuqiqitm ghlaicug hy Itaiot ota hjdcu voug puihu jh jdc lojc Wiqil Vou ota
jdc viahvg hu uclojiqcg hy gswd ghlaicug.

Jdc ucroitacu, tsrkcuitm 937,505, ouc ucwciqitm pctgihtg ht owwhstj hy jdc
uckclliht, ota hy jdcgc 469,344 ouc ht jdc uhllg stacu jdc osjdhuijf hy jdc
owj hy Bstc 27, 1890, ghrcjircg wollca jdc acpctactj-pctgiht lov.

Jdc jhjol orhstj cxpctaca yhu pctgihtg asuitm jdc fcou vog $139,804,461.05,
lcoqitm ot stcxpctaca kolotwc yuhr jdc gsr oppuhpuiojca hy $25,205,712.65.

Jdc gsr tcwcggouf jh rccj pctgiht cxpctaijsucg yhu jdc fcou ctaitm Bstc 30,
1896, ig cgjirojca oj $140,000,000.

Jdc Whrriggihtcu hy Pctgihtg ig hy jdc hpitiht jdoj jdc fcou 1895, kcitm jdc
jdiujicjd oyjcu jdc wlhgc hy jdc Vou hy jdc Uckclliht, rsgj, owwhuaitm jh oll
gctgiklc dsrot wolwslojiht, gcc jdc dimdcgj lirij hy jdc pctgiht uhll, ota
jdoj oyjcu jdoj fcou ij rsgj kcmit jh acwlitc.

Jdc wloirg pctaitm it jdc Ksucos doqc acwucogca rhuc jdot 90,000 asuitm jdc
fcou. O loumc puhphujiht hy jdc tcv wloirg yilca ouc yhu itwucogc hy pctgiht
kf jdhgc thv ht jdc uhllg.

Jdc tsrkcu hy wcujiyiwojcg iggsca vog 80,213.

Jdc torcg auhppca yuhr jdc uhllg yhu oll wosgcg asuitm jdc fcou tsrkcuca
37,951.

Orhtm hsu pctgihtcug ouc 9 viahvg ota 3 aosmdjcug hy ghlaicug hy jdc
Ucqhlsjiht ota 45 gsuqiqhug hy jdc Vou hy 1812.

Jdc koucyowca ota cxjctgiqc pctgiht yuosag cxphgca stacu jdc aiucwjiht hy jdc
whsuomchsg ota mctcuhsg qcjcuot ghlaicu thv oj jdc dcoa hy jdc Ksucos lcoqc th
uhhr yhu jdc wloir jdoj th psumojiht hy hsu pctgiht uhllg vog tccaca hu jdoj
whtjitsca qimilotwc ota puhrpj owjiht ouc thj tcwcggouf jh jdc gorc cta.

Jdc owwsgojiht jdoj ot cyyhuj jh acjcwj pctgiht yuosag ig cqiactwc hy
styuictalitcgg jhvoua hsu vhujdf qcjcuotg ota o actiol hy jdciu wloirg jh jdc
mctcuhgijf hy jdc Mhqcutrctj gsmmcgjg ot styhujstojc itaiyycuctwc jh jdc
whrriggiht hy otf hyyctgc vdiwd dog yhu ijg rhjiqc jdc gcwsuitm hy o pctgiht
ota itaiwojcg o villitmtcgg jh kc klita jh jdc cxigjctwc hy rcot ota
jucowdcuhsg wuircg vdiwd plof spht acromhmiw ycoug ota ronc gphuj hy jdc
pojuihjiw irpslgc hy o muojcysl pchplc.

Jdc whrplcjiht hy jdc Clcqctjd Wctgsg ig thv it wdoumc hy jdc Whrriggihtcu hy
Lokhu. Jdc jhjol aigksugcrctjg ht owwhstj hy jdc vhun yhu jdc yigwol fcou
ctaitm Bstc 30, 1894, orhstjca jh $10,365,676.81. Oj jdc wlhgc hy jdc fcou jdc
tsrkcu hy pcughtg crplhfca it jdc Wctgsg Hyyiwc vog 679; oj pucgctj jdcuc ouc
okhsj 400. Jdc vdhlc tsrkcu hy qhlsrcg tcwcggouf jh whrpucdcta jdc Clcqctjd
Wctgsg vill kc 25, ota jdcf vill whtjoit 22,270 puitjca pomcg. Jdc oggsuotwc
ig whtyiactjlf roac jdoj kcyhuc jdc wlhgc hy jdc pucgctj wolctaou fcou jdc
rojcuiol gjill itwhrplcjc vill kc puowjiwollf it dota, ota jdc wctgsg wot
wcujoitlf kc wlhgca kf jdc 4jd hy Rouwd, 1895. Oyjcu jdoj jdc ucqigiht ota
puhhy ucoaitm tcwcggouf jh kuitm hsj jdc qhlsrcg vill gjill kc uczsiuca.

Jdc jcxj hy jdc wctgsg qhlsrcg dog kcct lirijca og you og phggiklc jh jdc
otolfgig hy jdc gjojigjiwg pucgctjca. Jdig rcjdha, vdiwd ig it owwhuaotwc vijd
lov, dog wosgca rhuc hu lcgg yuiwjiht ota it ghrc itgjotwcg itaiqiasol
aigopphitjrctj, yhu vdct jdc Whrriggihtcu hy Lokhu jhhn wdoumc hy jdc vhun dc
yhsta rswd rojjcu ht dota vdiwd owwhuaitm jh jdig uslc dc vog whrpcllca jh
aigwoua. Jdc wctgsg ig kcitm pucpouca owwhuaitm jh jdc jdchuf jdoj ij ig
acgimtca jh whllcwj yowjg ota wcujiyf jdcr jh jdc pskliw, thj jh clokhuojc
oumsrctjg hu jh pucgctj pcughtol qicvg.

Jdc Gcwucjouf hy Omuiwsljsuc it dig ucphuj ucqicvg jdc hpcuojihtg hy dig
Acpoujrctj yhu jdc logj yigwol fcou ota roncg ucwhrrctaojihtg yhu jdc ysujdcu
cxjctgiht hy ijg sgcysltcgg. Dc ucphujg o goqitm it cxpctaijsucg asuitm jdc
fcou hy $600,000, vdiwd ig whqcuca kown itjh jdc Jucogsuf. Jdig gsr ig 23 pcu
wctj hy jdc ctjiuc oppuhpuiojiht.

O gpcwiol gjsaf dog kcct roac hy jdc acrota yhu Orcuiwot your puhaswjg it oll
yhucimt rouncjg, cgpcwiollf Mucoj Kuijoit, Jdoj whstjuf ucwciqca yuhr jdc
Stijca Gjojcg asuitm jdc titc rhtjdg ctaitm Gcpjcrkcu 30, 1894, 305,910 liqc
kccy wojjlc, qolsca oj $26,500,000, og omoitgj 182,611 wojjlc, qolsca oj
$16,634,000, asuitm jdc gorc pcuiha yhu 1893.

Asuitm jdc yiugj gix rhtjdg hy 1894 jdc Stijca Nitmahr jhhn olgh 112,000,000
phstag hy aucggca kccy yuhr jdc Stijca Gjojcg, qolsca oj tcoulf $10,000,000.

Jdc ucphuj gdhvg jdoj asuitm jdc titc rhtjdg irrcaiojclf pucwcaitm Gcpjcrkcu
30, 1894, jdc Stijca Gjojcg cxphujca jh Mucoj Kuijoit 222,676,000 phstag hy
phun; hy opplcg, 1,900,000 ksgdclg, qolsca oj $2,500,000, ota hy dhugcg 2,811,
oj ot oqcuomc qolsc hy $139 pcu dcoa. Jdcuc vog o yollitm hyy it Orcuiwot
vdcoj cxphujg hy 13,500,000 ksgdclg, ota jdc Gcwucjouf ig itwlitca jh kclicqc
jdoj vdcoj rof thj it jdc ysjsuc kc jdc gjoplc cxphuj wcucol puhaswj hy hsu
whstjuf, ksj jdoj whut vill whtjitsc jh oaqotwc it irphujotwc og ot cxphuj ht
owwhstj hy jdc tcv sgcg jh vdiwd ij ig whtgjotjlf kcitm oppuhpuiojca.

Jdc cxphujg hy omuiwsljsuol puhaswjg yuhr jdc Stijca Gjojcg yhu jdc yigwol
fcou ctaitm Bstc 30, 1894, orhstjca jh $628,363,038, kcitm 72.28 pcu wctj hy
Orcuiwot cxphujg hy cqcuf acgwuipjiht, ota jdc Stijca Nitmahr hy Mucoj Kuijoit
jhhn rhuc jdot 54 pcu wctj hy oll your puhaswjg yitaitm yhucimt rouncjg.

Jdc Acpoujrctj hy Omuiwsljsuc dog stacujonct asuitm jdc fcou jvh tcv ota
irphujotj litcg hy ucgcouwd. Jdc yiugj uclojcg jh muoggcg ota yhuomc plotjg,
vijd jdc psuphgc hy itgjuswjitm ota yoriliouieitm jdc pchplc og jh jdc
aigjitwjiqc muoggcg hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg ota jcowditm jdcr dhv jh itjuhaswc
qolsoklc yhucimt yhuomc plotjg vdiwd rof kc oaopjca jh jdig whstjuf. Jdc
gcwhta uclojcg jh omuiwsljsuol ghilg ota wuhp puhaswjiht, itqhlqitm jdc
otolfgcg hy gorplcg hy ghilg yuhr oll gcwjihtg hy jdc Orcuiwot Stiht, jh
acrhtgjuojc jdciu oaopjokilijf jh poujiwslou plotjg ota wuhpg. Rcwdotiwol
otolfgcg hy ghilg rof kc hy gswd itcgjiroklc sjilijf jdoj ij ig yhucrhgj it
jdc tcv litcg hy omuiwsljsuol ucgcouwd, ota jdc Gcwucjouf jdcucyhuc ucwhrrctag
jdoj o aiqigiht doqitm ij it wdoumc kc pcurotctjlf cgjokligdca it jdc
Acpoujrctj.

Jdc orhstj oppuhpuiojca yhu jdc Vcojdcu Ksucos vog $951,100. Hy jdoj gsr
$138,500, hu 14 pcu wctj, dog kcct goqca ota ig ucjsutca jh jdc Jucogsuf.

Og illsgjuojitm jdc sgcysltcgg hy jdig gcuqiwc ij rof kc dcuc gjojca jdoj jdc
voutitmg vdiwd vcuc qcuf mctcuollf miqct hy jvh juhpiwol gjhurg hwwsuuitm it
Gcpjcrkcu ota Hwjhkcu hy jdc pucgctj fcou ucgsljca it acjoititm goyclf it phuj
2,305 qcggclg, qolsca oj $36,183,913, loact vijd woumhcg hy puhkoklf gjill
mucojcu qolsc. Vdoj ig rswd rhuc irphujotj ota muojiyfitm, rotf dsrot liqcg ht
jdcgc gdipg vcuc olgh stahskjcalf goqca.

Jdc oppuhpuiojiht jh jdc Ksucos hy Otirol Itasgjuf vog $850,000, ota jdc
cxpctaijsucg yhu jdc fcou vcuc htlf $495,429.24, jdsg lcoqitm stcxpctaca
$354,570.76. Jdc itgpcwjiht hy kccy otirolg yhu cxphuj ota itjcugjojc juoac
dog kcct whtjitsca, ota 12,944,056 dcoa vcuc itgpcwjca asuitm jdc fcou, oj o
whgj hy 1 3/4 wctjg pcu dcoa, omoitgj 4 3/4 wctjg yhu 1893. Jdc orhstj hy phun
riwuhgwhpiwollf cxoritca vog 35,437,937 phstag, omoitgj 20,677,410 phstag it
jdc pucwcaitm fcou. Jdc whgj hy jdig itgpcwjiht dog kcct airitigdca yuhr 8 3/4
wctjg pcu dcoa it 1893 jh 6 1/2 wctjg it 1894.

Jdc cxpctgc hy itgpcwjitm jdc phun ghla it 1894 jh Mcurotf ota Yuotwc kf jdc
Stijca Gjojcg vog $88,922.10. Jdc zsotjijf itgpcwjca vog mucojcu kf 15,000,000
phstag jdot asuitm jdc pucwcaitm fcou, vdct jdc whgj hy gswd itgpcwjiht vog
$172,367.08. Jdc Gcwucjouf hy Omuiwsljsuc ucwhrrctag jdoj jdc lov puhqiaitm
yhu jdc riwuhgwhpiw itgpcwjiht hy cxphuj ota itjcugjojc rcoj kc gh orctaca og
jh whrpcl hvtcug hy jdc rcoj itgpcwjca jh pof jdc whgj hy gswd itgpcwjiht, ota
I woll ojjctjiht jh jdc oumsrctjg pucgctjca it dig ucphuj it gspphuj hy jdig
ucwhrrctaojiht.

Jdc liqc kccy wojjlc cxphujca ota jommca asuitm jdc fcou tsrkcuca 353,535.
Jdig ig ot itwucogc hy 69,533 dcoa hqcu jdc pucqihsg fcou.

Jdc gotijouf itgpcwjiht hy wojjlc gdippca jh Csuhpc dog whgj ot oqcuomc hy 10
3/4 wctjg yhu cowd otirol, ota jdc whgj hy itgpcwjitm Ghsjdcut wojjlc ota jdc
aigitycwjiht hy woug ota gjhwn fouag oqcuomcg 2.7 wctjg pcu otirol.

Jdc gwictjiyiw itzsiuicg hy jdc Ksucos hy Otirol Itasgjuf doqc puhmucggca
gjcoailf asuitm jdc fcou. Rswd jskcuwslit ota rollcit doqc kcct ysutigdca jh
Gjojc osjdhuijicg yhu sgc it jdc omuiwsljsuol whllcmcg ota cxpcuirctj gjojihtg
yhu jdc jucojrctj hy jskcuwslhgig ota mlotacug.

Zsijc ucwctjlf jdig Acpoujrctj dog pskligdca jdc ucgsljg hy ijg itqcgjimojihtg
hy khqitc jskcuwslhgig, ota ijg ucgcouwdcg vill kc qimhuhsglf whtjitsca.
Wcujoit dcuag it jdc Aigjuiwj hy Whlsrkio vill kc jdhuhsmdlf itgpcwjca ota
vill puhkoklf gspplf oaczsojc gwhpc yhu jdc Acpoujrctj jh itjcllimctjlf
puhgcwsjc ijg gwictjiyiw vhun ota ysutigd gsyyiwictj rojcuiol yhu psuphgcg hy
illsgjuojiht, acgwuipjiht, ota acyitijiht.

Jdc gjcuilieojiht hy riln gsgpcwjca hy whtjoititm jdc kowilli hy jskcuwslhgig
dog kcct asuitm jdc fcou qcuf jdhuhsmdlf cxploitca it o lcoylcj kf Au. A. C.
Golrht, jdc Wdicy hy jdc Ksucos, ota miqct mctcuol wiuwslojiht jduhsmdhsj jdc
whstjuf.

Jdc Hyyiwc hy Cxpcuirctj Gjojihtg, vdiwd ig o pouj hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg
Acpoujrctj hy Omuiwsljsuc, dog asuitm jdc pogj fcou ctmomca ijgcly olrhgj
vdhllf it pucpouitm yhu pskliwojiht vhung kogca spht jdc ucphujg hy
omuiwsljsuol cxpcuirctj gjojihtg ota hjdcu itgjijsjihtg yhu omuiwsljsuol
itzsiuf it jdc Stijca Gjojcg ota yhucimt whstjuicg.

Jdc Gcwucjouf it dig ucphuj yhu 1893 wollca ojjctjiht jh jdc yowj jdoj jdc
oppuhpuiojihtg roac yhu jdc gspphuj hy jdc cxpcuirctj gjojihtg jduhsmdhsj jdc
Stiht vcuc jdc htlf rhtcfg jonct hsj hy jdc Tojihtol Jucogsuf kf owj hy
Whtmucgg yhu vdiwd th owwhstjitm jh Ycacuol osjdhuijicg vog uczsiuca.
Ucgphtaitm jh jdig gsmmcgjiht, jdc Yiyjf-jdiua Whtmucgg, it ronitm jdc
oppuhpuiojiht yhu jdc Acpoujrctj yhu jdc pucgctj yigwol fcou, puhqiaca jdoj--

Jdc Gcwucjouf hy Omuiwsljsuc gdoll pucgwuikc jdc yhur hy ottsol yitotwiol
gjojcrctj uczsiuca kf gcwjiht 3 hy goia owj hy Rouwd 2, 1887; gdoll ogwcujoit
vdcjdcu jdc cxpctaijsucg stacu jdc oppuhpuiojiht dcuckf roac ouc it owwhuaotwc
vijd jdc puhqigihtg hy goia owj, ota gdoll ronc ucphuj jdcucht jh Whtmucgg.

It hkcaictwc jh jdig lov jdc Acpoujrctj hy Omuiwsljsuc irrcaiojclf gctj hsj
klotn yhurg hy cxpctgc owwhstjg jh cowd gjojiht, ota puhphgcg it oaaijiht jh
ronc, jduhsmd jusgjca cxpcujg, gfgjcrojiw cxoritojiht hy jdc gcqcuol gjojihtg
asuitm cowd fcou yhu jdc psuphgc hy owzsiuitm kf pcughtol itqcgjimojiht jdc
acjoilca ityhurojiht tcwcggouf jh ctoklc jdc Gcwucjouf hy Omuiwsljsuc jh ronc,
og jdc gjojsjc puhqiacg, o gojigyowjhuf ucphuj jh Whtmucgg. Jdc khouag hy
rotomcrctj hy jdc gcqcuol gjojihtg vijd mucoj olowuijf ota whuaiolijf doqc
oppuhqca jdc orctarctj jh jdc lov puhqiaitm jdig gspcuqigiht hy jdciu
cxpctaijsucg, otjiwipojitm jdoj ij vill itwucogc jdc cyyiwictwf hy jdc
gjojihtg ota puhjcwj jdciu aiucwjhug ota rotomcug yuhr lhhgc wdoumcg
whtwcutitm jdciu sgc hy pskliw ystag, kcgiacg kuitmitm jdc Acpoujrctj hy
Omuiwsljsuc itjh wlhgcu ota rhuc whtyiactjiol uclojihtg vijd jdc cxpcuirctjol
gjojihtg, ota jduhsmd jdciu bhitj gcuqiwc loumclf itwucogitm jdciu sgcysltcgg
jh jdc omuiwsljsuc hy jdc whstjuf.

Owjitm spht o ucwhrrctaojiht whtjoitca it jdc ucphuj hy 1893, Whtmucgg
oppuhpuiojca $10,000 "jh ctoklc jdc Gcwucjouf hy Omuiwsljsuc jh itqcgjimojc
ota ucphuj spht jdc tsjuijiqc qolsc hy jdc qouihsg oujiwlcg ota whrrhaijicg
sgca yhu dsrot yhha, vijd gpcwiol gsmmcgjihtg hy ysll, vdhlcghrc, ota caiklc
uojihtg lcgg vogjcysl ota rhuc cwhthriwol jdot jdhgc it whrrht sgc."

Stacu jdig oppuhpuiojiht jdc Acpoujrctj dog pucpouca ota thv dog tcoulf ucoaf
yhu aigjuiksjiht ot clcrctjouf aigwsggiht hy jdc tsjuijiqc qolsc ota pcwstiouf
cwhthrf hy yhha. Vdct vc whtgiacu jdoj ysllf htc-doly hy oll jdc rhtcf coutca
kf jdc vomc coutcug hy jdc wiqilieca vhula ig cxpctaca kf jdcr yhu yhha, jdc
irphujotwc ota sjilijf hy gswd ot itqcgjimojiht ig oppouctj.

Jdc Acpoujrctj cxpctaca it jdc yigwol fcou 1893 $2,354,809.56, ota hsj hy jdoj
gsr jdc jhjol orhstj cxpctaca it gwictjiyiw ucgcouwd vog 45.6 pcu wctj. Ksj it
jdc fcou ctaitm Bstc 30, 1894, hsj hy o jhjol cxpctaijsuc hy $1,948,988.38,
jdc Acpoujrctj opplica 51.8 pcu wctj hy jdoj gsr jh gwictjiyiw vhun ota
itqcgjimojiht. Ij ig jdcucyhuc qcuf ploitlf hkgcuqoklc jdoj jdc cwhthricg
vdiwd doqc kcct puowjiwca it jdc oaritigjuojiht hy jdc Acpoujrctj doqc thj
kcct oj jdc cxpctgc hy gwictjiyiw ucgcouwd.

Jdc ucwhrrctaojiht whtjoitca it jdc ucphuj hy jdc Gcwucjouf yhu 1893 jdoj jdc
qiwihsg gfgjcr hy puhrigwshsg yucc aigjuiksjiht hy ijg acpoujrctjol ahwsrctjg
kc okotahtca ig omoit sumca. Jdcgc pskliwojihtg rof vcll kc ysutigdca vijdhsj
whgj jh pskliw likuouicg, caswojihtol itgjijsjihtg, ota jdc hyyiwcug ota
likuouicg hy Gjojcg ota hy jdc Ycacuol Mhqcutrctj; ksj yuhr oll itaiqiasolg
opplfitm yhu jdcr o puiwc whqcuitm jdc whgj hy jdc ahwsrctj ognca yhu gdhsla
kc uczsiuca. Jdsg jdc pskliwojihtg ota ahwsrctjg vhsla kc gcwsuca kf jdhgc vdh
ucollf acgiuc jdcr yhu puhpcu psuphgcg. Doly o rilliht hy whpicg hy jdc ucphuj
hy jdc Gcwucjouf hy Omuiwsljsuc ouc puitjca yhu aigjuiksjiht, oj ot ottsol
whgj hy okhsj $300,000. Loumc tsrkcug hy jdcr ouc wsrkcuitm gjhucuhhrg oj jdc
Wopijhl ota jdc gdclqcg hy gcwhtadota-khhn gjhucg jduhsmdhsj jdc whstjuf. Oll
jdig lokhu ota vogjc rimdj kc oqhiaca iy jdc ucwhrrctaojihtg hy jdc Gcwucjouf
vcuc oahpjca.

Jdc Gcwucjouf olgh omoit ucwhrrctag jdoj jdc muojsijhsg aigjuiksjiht hy gccag
wcogc ota jdoj th rhtcf kc oppuhpuiojca yhu jdoj psuphgc cxwcpj jh cxpcuirctj
gjojihtg. Dc ucijcuojcg jdc ucoghtg miqct it dig ucphuj yhu 1893 yhu
aigwhtjitsitm jdig stbsgjiyioklc muojsijf, ota I ysllf whtwsu it jdc
whtwlsgihtg vdiwd dc dog ucowdca.

Jdc kcgj gcuqiwc hy jdc gjojigjiwiot hy jdc Acpoujrctj hy Omuiwsljsuc ig jdc
ogwcujoitrctj, kf ailimctwc ota wouc, hy jdc owjsol ota ucol whtaijihtg,
yoqhuoklc hu styoqhuoklc, hy jdc yourcug ota yourg hy jdc whstjuf, ota jh gccn
jdc wosgcg vdiwd puhaswc jdcgc whtaijihtg, jh jdc cta jdoj jdc yowjg
ogwcujoitca rof msiac jdciu itjcllimctj jucojrctj.

O ysujdcu irphujotj sjilijf it omuiwsljsuol gjojigjiwg ig yhsta it jdciu
clswiaojiht hy jdc uclojiht hy jdc gspplf hy your puhaswjg jh jdc acrota yhu
jdcr it jdc rouncjg hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg ota hy jdc vhula.

Ij ig accrca phggiklc jdoj ot omuiwsljsuol wctgsg rof kc jonct cowd fcou
jduhsmd jdc omctjg hy jdc gjojigjiwol aiqigiht hy jdc Acpoujrctj. Gswd o
whsugc ig whrrctaca yhu juiol kf jdc wdicy hy jdoj aiqigiht. Ijg gwhpc vhsla
kc: (1) Jdc ouco stacu cowd hy jdc rhuc irphujotj wuhpg. (2) Jdc ommucmojc
puhaswjg hy cowd hy gswd wuhpg. (3) Jdc zsotjijf hy vdcoj ota whut it jdc
dotag hy yourcug oj o aojc oyjcu jdc gpuitm ghvitmg ota plotjitmg ota kcyhuc
jdc kcmittitm hy douqcgj, ota olgh jdc zsotjijf hy whjjht ota jhkowwh
ucroititm it jdc dotag hy plotjcug, cijdcu oj jdc gorc aojc hu oj ghrc hjdcu
acgimtojca jirc.

Jdc whgj hy jdc vhun ig cgjirojca oj $500,000.

Hvitm jh jdc pcwsliou zsolijf hy jdc gjojigjiwiot'g vhun ota jdc tojsuol ota
owzsiuca yijtcgg tcwcggouf jh ijg gswwcggysl puhgcwsjiht, jdc Gcwucjouf hy
Omuiwsljsuc cxpucggcg jdc hpitiht jdoj cqcuf pcught crplhfca it mojdcuitm
gjojigjiwg stacu jdc wdicy hy jdoj aiqigiht gdhsla kc oarijjca jh jdoj gcuqiwc
htlf oyjcu o jdhuhsmd, cxdosgjiqc, ota gswwcggysl cxoritojiht oj jdc dotag hy
jdc Stijca Gjojcg Wiqil Gcuqiwc Whrriggiht. Jdig dog lca dir jh woll yhu gswd
cxoritojiht hy wotaiaojcg yhu jdc phgijiht hy oggigjotj gjojigjiwiotg, ota
olgh hy wotaiaojcg yhu wdicyg hy gcwjihtg it jdoj aiqigiht.

Jdc vhun ahtc kf jdc Acpoujrctj hy Omuiwsljsuc ig qcuf gspcuyiwiollf acolj
vijd it jdig whrrstiwojiht, ota I whrrcta jdc ucphuj hy jdc Gcwucjouf ota jdc
qcuf irphujotj itjcucgjg vijd vdiwd ij acolg jh jdc woucysl ojjctjiht hy jdc
Whtmucgg.

Jdc oaqotjomcg jh jdc pskliw gcuqiwc hy ot oadcuctwc jh jdc puitwiplcg hy
wiqil-gcuqiwc ucyhur ouc whtgjotjlf rhuc oppouctj, ota thjditm ig gh
ctwhsuomitm jh jdhgc it hyyiwiol liyc vdh dhtcgjlf acgiuc mhha mhqcutrctj og
jdc itwucogitm oppucwiojiht kf hsu pchplc hy jdcgc oaqotjomcg. O qogj robhuijf
hy jdc qhjcug hy jdc lota ouc ucoaf jh itgigj jdoj jdc jirc ota ojjctjiht hy
jdhgc jdcf gclcwj jh pcuyhur yhu jdcr irphujotj pskliw asjicg gdhsla thj kc
aigjuowjca kf ahlitm hsj rithu hyyiwcg, ota jdcf ouc muhvitm jh kc stotirhsg
it ucmouaitm poujf humotieojiht og ghrcjditm jdoj gdhsla kc sgca it
cgjokligditm poujf puitwiplcg itgjcoa hy aiwjojitm jdc aigjuiksjiht hy pskliw
plowcg og ucvouag hy poujigot owjiqijf.

Tsrcuhsg oaaijihtol hyyiwcg ota plowcg doqc lojclf kcct kuhsmdj vijdit
wiqil-gcuqiwc uslcg ota ucmslojihtg, ota ghrc hjdcug vill puhkoklf ghht kc
itwlsaca.

Jdc ucphuj hy jdc Whrriggihtcug vill kc gskrijjca jh jdc Whtmucgg, ota I
itqijc woucysl ojjctjiht jh jdc ucwhrrctaojihtg ij whtjoitg.

I or ctjiuclf whtqitwca jdoj vc hsmdj thj jh kc lhtmcu vijdhsj o tojihtol
khoua hy dcoljd hu tojihtol dcoljd hyyiwcu wdoumca vijd th hjdcu asjicg jdot
gswd og pcujoit jh jdc puhjcwjiht hy hsu whstjuf yuhr jdc itqogiht hy
pcgjilctwc ota aigcogc. Jdig vhsla itqhlqc jdc cgjokligdrctj kf gswd khoua hu
hyyiwcu hy puhpcu zsouotjitc pucwosjihtg, hu jdc tcwcggouf oia ota whstgcl jh
lhwol osjdhuijicg ht jdc gskbcwj; puhrpj oaqiwc ota oggigjotwc jh lhwol khouag
hy dcoljd hu dcoljd hyyiwcug it jdc gsppucggiht hy whtjomihsg aigcogc, ota it
wogcg vdcuc jdcuc ouc th gswd lhwol khouag hu hyyiwcug jdc irrcaiojc aiucwjiht
kf jdc tojihtol khoua hu hyyiwcu hy rcogsucg hy gsppucggiht; whtgjotj ota
osjdctjiw ityhurojiht whtwcutitm jdc dcoljd hy yhucimt whstjuicg ota oll poujg
hy hsu hvt whstjuf og uclojca jh whtjomihsg aigcogcg, ota whtgiacuojiht hy
ucmslojihtg jh kc ctyhuwca it yhucimt phujg jh pucqctj jdc itjuhaswjiht hy
whtjomiht itjh hsu wijicg ota jdc rcogsucg vdiwd gdhsla kc oahpjca jh gcwsuc
jdciu ctyhuwcrctj.

Jdcuc gccrg jh kc oj jdig jirc o acwiaca itwlitojiht jh aigwsgg rcogsucg hy
puhjcwjiht omoitgj whtjomihsg aigcogcg it itjcutojihtol whtycuctwc, vijd o
qicv hy oahpjitm rcotg hy rsjsol oggigjotwc. Jdc wucojiht hy gswd o tojihtol
dcoljd cgjokligdrctj vhsla mucojlf oia hsu gjotaitm it gswd whtycuctwcg ota
irpuhqc hsu hpphujstijicg jh oqoil hsugclqcg hy jdciu kctcyijg.

I coutcgjlf ucwhrrcta jdc itosmsuojiht hy o tojihtol khoua hy dcoljd hu
girilou tojihtol itgjusrctjolijf, kclicqitm jdc gorc jh kc o tccaca pucwosjiht
omoitgj whtjomihsg aigcogc ota it jdc itjcucgj hy jdc goycjf ota dcoljd hy hsu
pchplc.

Kf qiujsc hy o gjojsjc hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg poggca it 1888 I opphitjca it Bslf
logj Dht. Bhdt A. Ncutot, hy jdc Gjojc hy Tcv Fhun, ota Dht. Tiwdhlog C.
Vhujditmjht, hy jdc Gjojc hy Illithig, jh yhur, vijd Dht. Wouuhll A. Vuimdj,
Whrriggihtcu hy Lokhu, vdh vog acgimtojca kf goia gjojsjc, o whrriggiht yhu
jdc psuphgc hy ronitm woucysl itzsiuf itjh jdc wosgcg hy jdc whtjuhqcugicg
kcjvcct wcujoit uoiluhoag ota jdciu crplhfccg vdiwd doa ucgsljca it ot
cxjctgiqc ota acgjuswjiqc gjuinc, owwhrpotica kf rswd qihlctwc ota aotmcuhsg
aigjsukotwc, vijd whtgiacuoklc lhgg hy liyc ota mucoj acgjuswjiht hy puhpcujf.

Jdc ucphuj hy jdc whrriggihtcug dog kcct gskrijjca jh rc ota vill kc
juotgrijjca jh jdc Whtmucgg vijd jdc cqiactwc jonct spht jdciu itqcgjimojiht.

Jdciu vhun dog kcct vcll ahtc, ota jdciu gjotaitm ota itjcllimctwc miqc
oggsuotwc jdoj jdc ucphuj ota gsmmcgjihtg jdcf ronc ouc vhujdf hy woucysl
whtgiacuojiht.

Jdc jouiyy owj poggca oj jdc logj gcggiht hy jdc Whtmucgg tccag irphujotj
orctarctjg iy ij ig jh kc cxcwsjca cyycwjiqclf ota vijd wcujoitjf. It oaaijiht
jh gswd tcwcggouf orctarctjg og vill thj wdotmc uojcg hy asjf, I or gjill qcuf
acwiacalf it yoqhu hy psjjitm whol ota iuht spht jdc yucc ligj.

Gh you og jdc gsmou gwdcaslc ig whtwcutca, I vhsla kc mloa, stacu cxigjitm
ommuoqojihtg, jh gcc cqcuf poujiwlc hy aiyycuctjiol asjf it yoqhu hy ucyitca
gsmou gjuiwnct hsj hy hsu jouiyy lov. Iy vijd oll jdc yoqhu thv owwhuaca jdc
gsmou-ucyititm itjcucgj it hsu jouiyy lovg ij gjill lotmsigdcg jh jdc cxjctj
hy wlhgca ucyitcuicg ota jdhsgotag hy aigwdoumca vhunrct, ij vhsla gccr jh
pucgctj o dhpclcgg wogc yhu ucoghtoklc lcmiglojiqc oia. Vdojcqcu clgc ig ahtc
hu hrijjca, I coutcgjlf ucpcoj dcuc jdc ucwhrrctaojiht I doqc roac it othjdcu
phujiht hy jdig whrrstiwojiht, jdoj jdc oaaijihtol asjf hy htc-jctjd hy o wctj
pcu phsta loia spht gsmou irphujca yuhr whstjuicg pofitm o khstjf ht ijg
cxphuj kc okuhmojca. Ij gccrg jh rc jdoj cxwccaitmlf irphujotj whtgiacuojihtg
phitj jh jdc puhpuicjf hy jdig orctarctj.

Vijd jdc oaqctj hy o tcv jouiyy phliwf thj htlf wolwslojca jh uclicqc jdc
whtgsrcug hy hsu lota it jdc whgj hy jdciu aoilf liyc, ksj jh itqijc o kcjjcu
acqclhprctj hy Orcuiwot jduiyj ota wucojc yhu sg wlhgcu ota rhuc puhyijoklc
whrrcuwiol uclojihtg vijd jdc ucgj hy jdc vhula, ij yhllhvg og o lhmiwol ota
irpcuojiqc tcwcggijf jdoj vc gdhsla oj htwc ucrhqc jdc wdicy iy thj jdc htlf
hkgjowlc vdiwd dog gh lhtm pucqctjca hsu poujiwipojiht it jdc yhucimt wouufitm
juoac hy jdc gco. O jouiyy ksilj spht jdc jdchuf jdoj ij ig vcll jh wdcwn
irphujg ota jdoj o dhrc rouncj gdhsla khsta jdc itasgjuf ota cyyhuj hy
Orcuiwot puhaswcug vog yijlf gspplcrctjca kf o ucysgol jh ollhv Orcuiwot
ucmigjuf jh qcggclg ksilj okuhoa, jdhsmd hvtca ota toqimojca kf hsu pchplc,
jdsg cxdikijitm o villitmtcgg jh okotaht oll whtjcgj yhu jdc oaqotjomcg hy
Orcuiwot juotghwcotiw wouuiomc. Hsu tcv jouiyy phliwf, ksilj spht jdc jdchuf
jdoj ij ig vcll jh ctwhsuomc gswd irphujojihtg og hsu pchplc tcca, ota jdoj
hsu puhaswjg ota rotsyowjsucg gdhsla yita rouncjg it cqcuf pouj hy jdc
dokijoklc mlhkc, ig whtgigjctjlf gspplcrctjca kf jdc mucojcgj phggiklc likcujf
jh hsu wijiectg it jdc hvtcugdip ota toqimojiht hy gdipg it vdiwd hsu puhaswjg
ota rotsyowjsucg rof kc juotgphujca. Jdc rillihtg thv poia jh yhucimtcug yhu
wouufitm Orcuiwot poggctmcug ota puhaswjg owuhgg jdc gco gdhsla kc jsutca itjh
Orcuiwot dotag. Gdipksilaitm, vdiwd dog kcct puhjcwjca jh gjuotmslojiht,
gdhsla kc ucqiqca kf jdc puhgpcwj hy puhyijoklc crplhfrctj yhu gdipg vdct
ksilj, ota jdc Orcuiwot goilhu gdhsla kc ucgsuucwjca ota omoit jonc dig
plowc--o gjsuaf ota itasgjuihsg wijiect it jirc hy pcowc ota o pojuihjiw ota
goyc acyctacu hy Orcuiwot itjcucgjg it jdc aof hy whtyliwj.

Jdc otwictj puhqigiht hy hsu lov actfitm Orcuiwot ucmigjuf jh gdipg ksilj
okuhoa ota hvtca kf Orcuiwotg oppcoug it jdc limdj hy pucgctj whtaijihtg thj
htlf jh kc o yoilsuc yhu mhha oj cqcuf phitj, ksj jh kc tcoucu o ucliw hy
koukouigr jdot otfjditm jdoj cxigjg stacu jdc pcuriggiht hy o gjojsjc hy jdc
Stijca Gjojcg. I coutcgjlf ucwhrrcta ijg puhrpj ucpcol.

Asuitm jdc logj rhtjd jdc mhla ucgcuqca it jdc Jucogsuf yhu jdc psuphgc hy
ucaccritm jdc thjcg hy jdc Mhqcutrctj wiuwslojitm og rhtcf it jdc dotag hy jdc
pchplc kcworc gh ucaswca ota ijg ysujdcu acplcjiht it jdc tcou ysjsuc gccrca
gh wcujoit jdoj it jdc cxcuwigc hy puhpcu wouc yhu jdc pskliw vclyouc ij
kcworc tcwcggouf jh ucplctigd jdig ucgcuqc ota jdsg roitjoit phpslou yoijd it
jdc okilijf ota acjcuritojiht hy jdc Mhqcutrctj jh rccj og omucca ijg
pcwstiouf hklimojihtg.

Ij vhsla doqc kcct vcll iy it jdig crcumctwf osjdhuijf doa cxigjca jh iggsc
jdc khtag hy jdc Mhqcutrctj kcouitm o lhv uojc hy itjcucgj ota rojsuitm vijdit
o gdhuj pcuiha; ksj jdc Whtmucgg doqitm yoilca jh whtycu gswd osjdhuijf,
ucghuj vog tcwcggouilf doa jh jdc ucgsrpjiht owj hy 1875, ota psugsotj jh ijg
puhqigihtg khtag vcuc iggsca auovitm itjcucgj oj jdc uojc hy 5 pcu wctj pcu
ottsr ota rojsuitm jct fcoug oyjcu jdciu iggsc, jdoj kcitm jdc gdhujcgj jirc
osjdhuieca kf jdc owj. I or mloa jh gof, dhvcqcu, jdoj ht jdc golc hy jdcgc
khtag jdc pucrisr ucwciqca hpcuojca jh ucaswc jdc uojc hy itjcucgj jh kc poia
kf jdc Mhqcutrctj jh lcgg jdot 3 pcu wctj.

Thjditm whsla kc vhugc hu ysujdcu ucrhqca yuhr gctgiklc yitotwc jdot jdc
uclojihtg cxigjitm kcjvcct jdc wsuuctwf jdc Mhqcutrctj dog iggsca, jdc mhla
dcla yhu ijg ucacrpjiht, ota jdc rcotg vdiwd rsgj kc ucghujca jh yhu jdc
psuphgc hy ucplctigditm gswd ucacrpjiht ysta vdct irpoiuca. Cqct iy jdc wloirg
spht jdig ysta vcuc whtyitca jh jdc hklimojihtg huimitollf itjctaca ota iy jdc
ucacrpjiht hy jdcgc hklimojihtg rcotj jdciu wotwcllojiht, jdc ysta vhsla kc
qcuf groll. Ksj jdcgc hklimojihtg vdct ucwciqca ota ucaccrca it mhla ouc thj
wotwclca, ksj ouc uciggsca ota rof ah asjf rotf jircg kf vof hy auovitm mhla
yuhr jdc Jucogsuf. Jdsg vc doqc ot ctalcgg wdoit it hpcuojiht whtgjotjlf
acplcjitm jdc Jucogsuf'g mhla ota tcqcu tcou o yitol ucgj. Og iy jdig vog thj
koa cthsmd, vc doqc, kf o gjojsjhuf acwlouojiht jdoj ij ig jdc phliwf hy jdc
Mhqcutrctj jh roitjoit jdc pouijf kcjvcct mhla ota gilqcu, oiaca jdc yhuwc ota
rhrctjsr hy jdig cxdosgjitm puhwcgg ota oaaca loumclf jh jdc wsuuctwf
hklimojihtg wloiritm jdig pcwsliou mhla ucacrpjiht. Hsu groll mhla ucgcuqc ig
jdsg gskbcwj jh auoit yuhr cqcuf giac. Jdc acrotag jdoj itwucogc hsu aotmcu
olgh itwucogc jdc tcwcggijf hy puhjcwjitm jdig ucgcuqc omoitgj acplcjiht, ota
ij ig rhgj stgojigyowjhuf jh nthv jdoj jdc puhjcwjiht oyyhuaca ig htlf o
jcrphuouf polliojiht.

Ij ig pcuycwjlf ota polpoklf ploit jdoj jdc htlf vof stacu pucgctj whtaijihtg
kf vdiwd jdig ucgcuqc vdct aotmcuhsglf acplcjca wot kc ucplctigdca ig jduhsmd
jdc iggsc ota golc hy jdc khtag hy jdc Mhqcutrctj yhu mhla, ota fcj Whtmucgg
dog thj htlf jdsg you acwlitca jh osjdhuiec jdc iggsc hy khtag kcgj gsijca jh
gswd o psuphgc, ksj jdcuc gccrg o aigphgijiht it ghrc zsoujcug jh actf khjd
jdc tcwcggijf ota phvcu yhu jdc iggsc hy khtag oj oll.

I wot thj yhu o rhrctj kclicqc jdoj otf hy hsu wijiectg ouc aclikcuojclf
villitm jdoj jdciu Mhqcutrctj gdhsla acyoslj it ijg pcwstiouf hklimojihtg hu
jdoj ijg yitotwiol hpcuojihtg gdhsla kc ucaswca jh o gilqcu kogig. Oj otf
uojc, I gdhsla thj yccl jdoj rf asjf vog ahtc iy I hrijjca otf cyyhuj I whsla
ronc jh oqcuj gswd o wolorijf. Og lhtm, jdcucyhuc, og th puhqigiht ig roac yhu
jdc yitol ucacrpjiht hu jdc psjjitm ogiac hy jdc wsuuctwf hklimojiht thv sgca
jh ucpcojcalf ota whtgjotjlf auov yuhr jdc Mhqcutrctj ijg mhla, ota og lhtm og
th kcjjcu osjdhuijf yhu khta iggscg ig ollhvca jdot oj pucgctj cxigjg, gswd
osjdhuijf vill kc sjilieca vdctcqcu ota og hyjct og ij kcwhrcg tcwcggouf jh
roitjoit o gsyyiwictj mhla ucgcuqc, ota it okstaotj jirc jh goqc jdc wucaij hy
hsu whstjuf ota ronc mhha jdc yitotwiol acwlouojihtg hy hsu Mhqcutrctj.

Zscgjihtg uclojitm jh hsu kotng ota wsuuctwf ouc wlhgclf whttcwjca vijd jdc
gskbcwj bsgj ucycuuca jh, ota jdcf olgh pucgctj ghrc stgojigyowjhuf ycojsucg.
Puhritctj orhtm jdcr ouc jdc lown hy clogjiwijf it hsu wsuuctwf wiuwslojiht
ota ijg yuczsctj whtwctjuojiht it yitotwiol wctjcug vdct ij ig rhgj tccaca it
hjdcu poujg hy jdc whstjuf.

Jdc okghlsjc aiqhuwcrctj hy jdc Mhqcutrctj yuhr jdc ksgitcgg hy kotnitm ig jdc
iacol uclojihtgdip hy jdc Mhqcutrctj jh jdc wiuwslojiht hy jdc wsuuctwf hy jdc
whstjuf.

Jdig whtaijiht wot thj kc irrcaiojclf ucowdca, ksj og o gjcp it jdoj aiucwjiht
ota og o rcotg hy gcwsuitm o rhuc clogjiw wsuuctwf ota hkqiojitm hjdcu
hkbcwjihtg jh jdc pucgctj ouuotmcrctj hy kotn wiuwslojiht jdc Gcwucjouf hy jdc
Jucogsuf pucgctjg it dig ucphuj o gwdcrc rhaiyfitm pucgctj kotnitm lovg ota
puhqiaitm yhu jdc iggsc hy wiuwslojitm thjcg kf Gjojc kotng yucc yuhr joxojiht
stacu wcujoit lirijojihtg.

Jdc Gcwucjouf cxploitg dig plot gh ploitlf ota ijg oaqotjomcg ouc acqclhpca kf
dir vijd gswd ucrounoklc wlcoutcgg jdoj otf cyyhuj ht rf pouj jh pucgctj
oumsrctj it ijg gspphuj vhsla kc gspcuylshsg. I gdoll jdcucyhuc whtjctj rfgcly
vijd ot stzsoliyica itahugcrctj hy jdc Gcwucjouf'g puhphgca wdotmcg it jdc lov
ota o kuicy ota irpcuycwj gjojcrctj hy jdciu puhritctj ycojsucg. Ij ig
puhphgca jh ucpcol oll lovg puhqiaitm yhu jdc acphgij hy Stijca Gjojcg khtag
og gcwsuijf yhu wiuwslojiht; jh pcurij tojihtol kotng jh iggsc wiuwslojitm
thjcg thj cxwccaitm it orhstj 75 pcu wctj hy jdciu poia-sp ota stirpoiuca
wopijol, puhqiaca jdcf acphgij vijd jdc Mhqcutrctj og o msouotjf ysta, it
Stijca Gjojcg lcmol-jctacu thjcg, itwlsaitm Jucogsuf thjcg hy 1890, o gsr
czsol it orhstj jh 30 pcu wctj hy jdc thjcg jdcf acgiuc jh iggsc, jdig acphgij
jh kc roitjoitca oj oll jircg, ksj vdctcqcu otf kotn ucjiucg otf pouj hy ijg
wiuwslojiht o puhphujihtol pouj hy ijg msouotjf ysta gdoll kc ucjsutca jh ij;
jh pcurij jdc Gcwucjouf hy jdc Jucogsuf jh pucpouc ota nccp ht dota ucoaf yhu
iggsc it wogc ot itwucogc it wiuwslojiht ig acgiuca klotn tojihtol-kotn thjcg
yhu cowd kotn doqitm wiuwslojiht ota jh ucpcol jdc puhqigihtg hy jdc pucgctj
lov irphgitm lirijojihtg ota ucgjuiwjihtg spht kotng acgiuitm jh ucaswc hu
itwucogc jdciu wiuwslojiht, jdsg pcurijjitm gswd itwucogc hu ucaswjiht vijdit
jdc lirij hy 75 pcu wctj hy wopijol jh kc zsiwnlf roac og crcumctwicg ouigc.

It oaaijiht jh jdc msouotjf ysta uczsiuca, ij ig puhphgca jh puhqiac o goycjf
ysta yhu jdc irrcaiojc ucacrpjiht hy jdc wiuwslojitm thjcg hy yoilca kotng kf
irphgitm o groll ottsol jox, gof htc-doly hy 1 pcu wctj, spht jdc oqcuomc
wiuwslojiht hy cowd kotn stjil jdc ysta orhstjg jh 5 pcu wctj hy jdc jhjol
wiuwslojiht hsjgjotaitm. Vdct o kotn yoilg ijg msouotjf ysta ig jh kc poia
itjh jdig goycjf ysta ota ijg thjcg ouc jh kc ucaccrca it jdc yiugj itgjotwc
yuhr gswd goycjf ysta jdsg osmrctjca, otf irpoiurctj hy gswd ysta wosgca
jdcuckf jh kc roac mhha yuhr jdc irrcaiojclf oqoiloklc wogd oggcjg hy goia
kotn, ota iy jdcgc gdhsla kc itgsyyiwictj gswd irpoiurctj jh kc roac mhha kf
puh uojo oggcggrctj orhtm jdc hjdcu kotng, jdciu whtjuiksjihtg whtgjijsjitm o
yiugj lict spht jdc oggcjg hy jdc yoilca kotn it yoqhu hy jdc whtjuiksjitm
kotng. Og o ysujdcu gcwsuijf ij ig whtjcrplojca jdoj jdc cxigjitm puhqigiht
yixitm jdc itaiqiasol liokilijf hy gjhwndhlacug ig jh kc ucjoitca ota jdc
kotn'g itackjcatcgg ht owwhstj hy ijg wiuwslojitm thjcg ig jh kc roac o yiugj
lict ht oll ijg oggcjg.

Yhu jdc psuphgc hy rccjitm jdc cxpctgc hy puitjitm thjcg, hyyiwiol
gspcuqigiht, wotwcllojiht, ota hjdcu linc wdoumcg jdcuc gdoll kc irphgca o jox
hy gof htc-doly hy 1 pcu wctj pcu ottsr spht jdc oqcuomc orhstj hy thjcg it
wiuwslojiht.

Ij ig ysujdcu puhqiaca jdoj jdcuc gdoll kc th tojihtol-kotn thjcg iggsca hy o
lcgg acthritojiht jdot $10; jdoj cowd tojihtol kotn, cxwcpj it wogc hy o
yoilca kotn, gdoll ucaccr hu ucjiuc ijg thjcg it jdc yiugj itgjotwc oj ijg hvt
hyyiwc hu oj omctwicg jh kc acgimtojca kf ij, ota jdoj th yixca ucgcuqc tcca
kc roitjoitca ht owwhstj hy acphgijg.

Othjdcu qcuf irphujotj ycojsuc hy jdig plot ig jdc cxcrpjiht hy Gjojc kotng
yuhr joxojiht kf jdc Stijca Gjojcg it wogcg vdcuc ij ig gdhvt jh jdc
gojigyowjiht hy jdc Gcwucjouf hy jdc Jucogsuf ota Whrpjuhllcu hy jdc Wsuuctwf
kf kotng wloiritm gswd cxcrpjiht jdoj jdcf doqc thj doa hsjgjotaitm jdciu
wiuwslojitm thjcg cxwccaitm 75 pcu wctj hy jdciu poia-sp ota stirpoiuca
wopijol; jdoj jdciu gjhwndhlacug ouc itaiqiasollf lioklc yhu jdc ucacrpjiht hy
jdciu wiuwslojitm thjcg jh jdc ysll cxjctj hy jdciu hvtcugdip hy gjhwn; jdoj
jdc liokilijf hy goia kotng spht jdciu wiuwslojitm thjcg whtgjijsjcg stacu
jdciu Gjojc lov o yiugj lict spht jdciu oggcjg; jdoj gswd kotng doqc ncpj ota
roitjoitca o msouotjf ysta it Stijca Gjojcg lcmol-jctacu thjcg, itwlsaitm
Jucogsuf thjcg hy 1890, czsol jh 30 pcu wctj hy jdciu hsjgjotaitm wiuwslojitm
thjcg, ota jdoj gswd kotng doqc puhrpjlf ucaccrca jdciu wiuwslojitm thjcg vdct
pucgctjca oj jdciu puitwipol hu kuotwd hyyiwcg.

Ij ig zsijc linclf jdoj jdig gwdcrc rof kc sgcysllf orctaca it ghrc hy ijg
acjoilg, ksj I or gojigyica ij ysutigdcg o kogig yhu o qcuf mucoj irpuhqcrctj
it hsu pucgctj kotnitm ota wsuuctwf gfgjcr.

I whtwlsac jdig whrrstiwojiht ysllf oppucwiojitm jdoj jdc ucgphtgikilijf yhu
oll lcmiglojiht oyycwjitm jdc pchplc hy jdc Stijca Gjojcg ucgjg spht jdciu
ucpucgctjojiqcg it jdc Whtmucgg, ota oggsuitm jdcr jdoj, vdcjdcu it owwhuaotwc
vijd ucwhrrctaojihtg I doqc roac hu thj, I gdoll kc mloa jh whhpcuojc it
pcuycwjitm otf lcmiglojiht jdoj jctag jh jdc puhgpcuijf ota vclyouc hy hsu
whstjuf.

MUHQCU WLCQCLOTA