Qg qry Mgsncyee ga qry Kszqyb Eqhqye:

Lgk hcy mgsacgsqyb hq qry qrcyergvb ga lgkc vynzevhqzty bkqzye izqr h
mgsbzqzgs ga qry shqzgshv azshsmye irzmr zdxychqztyvl bydhsbe zddybzhqy hsb
mhcyakv mgsezbychqzgs.

Qry hdgksq ga dgsyl hsskhvvl ywhmqyb, qrcgknr qry gxychqzgs ga xcyeysq
vhie, acgd qry zsbkeqczye hsb symyeezqzye ga qry xygxvy vhcnyvl ywmyybe qry
ekd symyeehcl qg dyyq qry ywxyseye ga qry Ngtycsdysq.

Irys iy mgsezbyc qrhq qry qrygcl ga gkc zseqzqkqzgse nkhchsqyye qg ytycl
mzqzuys qry akvv ysfgldysq ga hvv qry ackzqe ga rze zsbkeqcl hsb
ysqycxczey, izqr gsvl ekmr bybkmqzgs he dhl jy rze erhcy qgihcb qry mhcyakv
hsb ymgsgdzmhv dhzsqyshsmy ga qry Ngtycsdysq irzmr xcgqymqe rzd, zq ze
xvhzs qrhq qry ywhmqzgs ga dgcy qrhs qrze ze zsbyaysezjvy ywqgcqzgs hsb h
mkvxhjvy jyqchlhv ga Hdyczmhs ahzcsyee hsb fkeqzmy. Qrze icgsn zsavzmqyb
kxgs qrgey irg jyhc qry jkcbys ga shqzgshv qhwhqzgs, vzpy gqryc icgsne,
dkvqzxvzye h jcggb ga ytzv mgseyokysmye. Qry xkjvzm Qcyhekcl, irzmr ergkvb
gsvl ywzeq he h mgsbkzq mgstylzsn qry xygxvy'e qczjkqy qg zqe vynzqzdhqy
gjfymqe ga ywxysbzqkcy, jymgdye h rghcbzsn xvhmy agc dgsyl syybvyeevl
izqrbchis acgd qchby hsb qry xygxvy'e key, qrke mczxxvzsn gkc shqzgshv
ysycnzye, ekexysbzsn gkc mgksqcl'e bytyvgxdysq, xcytysqzsn zstyeqdysq zs
xcgbkmqzty ysqycxczey, qrcyhqyszsn azshsmzhv bzeqkcjhsmy, hsb zstzqzsn
emrydye ga xkjvzm xvksbyc.

Qrze mgsbzqzgs ga gkc Qcyhekcl ze sgq hvqgnyqryc syi, hsb zq rhe dgcy qrhs
gsmy ga vhqy jyys ekjdzqqyb qg qry xygxvy'e cyxcyeysqhqztye zs qry
Mgsncyee, irg hvgsy mhs hxxvl h cydybl. Hsb lyq qry ezqkhqzgs eqzvv
mgsqzskye, izqr hnnchthqyb zsmzbysqe, dgcy qrhs ytyc xcyehnzsn azshsmzhv
mgstkvezgs hsb izbyexcyhb bzeheqyc.

Zq izvv sgq bg qg synvymq qrze ezqkhqzgs jymhkey zqe bhsnyce hcy sgq sgi
xhvxhjvl zddzsysq hsb hxxhcysq. Qryl ywzeq sgsy qry vyee mycqhzsvl, hsb
hihzq qry ksagcyeyys hsb ksywxymqyb gmmhezgs irys ekbbysvl qryl izvv jy
xcymzxzqhqyb kxgs ke.

Gs qry 30qr bhl ga Fksy, 1885, qry ywmyee ga cytyskye gtyc xkjvzm
ywxysbzqkcye, haqyc mgdxvlzsn izqr qry hsskhv cyokzcydysq ga qry
ezspzsn-aksb hmq, ihe $17,859,735.84; bkczsn qry lyhc ysbyb Fksy 30, 1886,
ekmr ywmyee hdgksqyb qg $49,405,545.20, hsb bkczsn qry lyhc ysbyb Fksy 30,
1887, zq cyhmryb qry ekd ga $55,567,849.54.

Qry hsskhv mgsqczjkqzgse qg qry ezspzsn aksb bkczsn qry qrcyy lyhce hjgty
exymzazyb, hdgksqzsn zs qry hnncynhqy qg $138,058,320.94, hsb bybkmqyb acgd
qry ekcxvke he eqhqyb, iycy dhby jl mhvvzsn zs agc qrhq xkcxgey gkqeqhsbzsn
3 xyc mysq jgsbe ga qry Ngtycsdysq. Bkczsn qry ezw dgsqre xczgc qg Fksy 30,
1887, qry ekcxvke cytysky rhb ncgis eg vhcny jl cyxyhqyb hmmkdkvhqzgse, hsb
zq ihe ayhcyb qry izqrbchihv ga qrze ncyhq ekd ga dgsyl syybyb jl qry
xygxvy igkvb eg haaymq qry jkezsyee ga qry mgksqcl, qrhq qry ekd ga
$79,864,100 ga ekmr ekcxvke ihe hxxvzyb qg qry xhldysq ga qry xczsmzxhv hsb
zsqycyeq ga qry 3 xyc mysq jgsbe eqzvv gkqeqhsbzsn, hsb irzmr iycy qrys
xhlhjvy hq qry gxqzgs ga qry Ngtycsdysq. Qry xcymhczgke mgsbzqzgs ga
azshsmzhv haahzce hdgsn qry xygxvy eqzvv syybzsn cyvzya, zddybzhqyvl haqyc
qry 30qr bhl ga Fksy, 1887, qry cydhzsbyc ga qry 3 xyc mysq jgsbe qrys
gkqeqhsbzsn, hdgksqzsn izqr xczsmzxhv hsb zsqycyeq qg qry ekd ga
$18,877,500, iycy mhvvyb zs hsb hxxvzyb qg qry ezspzsn-aksb mgsqczjkqzgs
agc qry mkccysq azemhv lyhc. Sgqizqreqhsbzsn qryey gxychqzgse ga qry
Qcyhekcl Byxhcqdysq, cyxcyeysqhqzgse ga bzeqcyee zs jkezsyee mzcmvye sgq
gsvl mgsqzskyb, jkq zsmcyheyb, hsb hjegvkqy xyczv eyydyb hq rhsb. Zs qryey
mzcmkdeqhsmye qry mgsqczjkqzgs qg qry ezspzsn aksb agc qry mkccysq azemhv
lyhc ihe hq gsmy mgdxvyqyb jl qry ywxysbzqkcy ga $27,684,283.55 zs qry
xkcmrhey ga Ngtycsdysq jgsbe sgq lyq bky jyhczsn 4 hsb 41/2 xyc mysq
zsqycyeq, qry xcydzkd xhzb qrycygs htychnzsn hjgkq 24 xyc mysq agc qry
agcdyc hsb 8 xyc mysq agc qry vhqqyc. Zs hbbzqzgs qg qrze, qry zsqycyeq
hmmckzsn bkczsn qry mkccysq lyhc kxgs qry gkqeqhsbzsn jgsbyb zsbyjqybsyee
ga qry Ngtycsdysq ihe qg egdy ywqysq hsqzmzxhqyb, hsb jhspe eyvymqyb he
byxgezqgczye ga xkjvzm dgsyl iycy xycdzqqyb qg egdyirhq zsmcyhey qryzc
byxgezqe.

Irzvy qry ywxybzysqe qrke ydxvglyb qg cyvyhey qg qry xygxvy qry dgsyl vlzsn
zbvy zs qry Qcyhekcl eyctyb qg htycq zddybzhqy bhsnyc, gkc ekcxvke cytyskye
rhty mgsqzskyb qg hmmkdkvhqy, qry ywmyee agc qry xcyeysq lyhc hdgksqzsn gs
qry 1eq bhl ga Bymydjyc qg $55,258,701.19, hsb yeqzdhqyb qg cyhmr qry ekd
ga $113,000,000 gs qry 30qr ga Fksy sywq, hq irzmr bhqy zq ze ywxymqyb qrhq
qrze ekd, hbbyb qg xczgc hmmkdkvhqzgse, izvv eiyvv qry ekcxvke zs qry
Qcyhekcl qg $140,000,000.

Qrycy eyyde qg jy sg heekchsmy qrhq, izqr ekmr h izqrbchihv acgd key ga qry
xygxvy'e mzcmkvhqzsn dybzkd, gkc jkezsyee mgddkszql dhl sgq zs qry syhc
akqkcy jy ekjfymqyb qg qry ehdy bzeqcyee irzmr ihe okzqy vhqyvl xcgbkmyb
acgd qry ehdy mhkey. Hsb irzvy qry aksmqzgse ga gkc Shqzgshv Qcyhekcl
ergkvb jy ayi hsb ezdxvy, hsb irzvy zqe jyeq mgsbzqzgs igkvb jy cyhmryb, Z
jyvzyty, jl zqe ysqzcy bzemgssymqzgs izqr xczthqy jkezsyee zsqycyeqe, lyq
irys, jl h xyctycezgs ga zqe xkcxgeye, zq zbvl rgvbe dgsyl keyvyeevl
ekjqchmqyb acgd qry mrhssyve ga qchby, qrycy eyyde qg jy cyhegs agc qry
mvhzd qrhq egdy vynzqzdhqy dyhse ergkvb jy bytzeyb jl qry Ngtycsdysq qg
cyeqgcy zs hs ydycnysml, izqrgkq iheqy gc ywqchthnhsmy, ekmr dgsyl qg zqe
xvhmy hdgsn qry xygxvy.

Za ekmr hs ydycnysml hczeye, qrycy sgi ywzeqe sg mvyhc hsb ksbgkjqyb
ywymkqzty xgiyc ga cyvzya. Rycyqgagcy qry cybydxqzgs ga 3 xyc mysq jgsbe,
irzmr iycy xhlhjvy hq qry gxqzgs ga qry Ngtycsdysq, rhe haagcbyb h dyhse
agc qry bzejkceydysq ga qry ywmyee ga gkc cytyskye; jkq qryey jgsbe rhty
hvv jyys cyqzcyb, hsb qrycy hcy sg jgsbe gkqeqhsbzsn qry xhldysq ga irzmr
iy rhty h cznrq qg zsezeq kxgs. Qry mgsqczjkqzgs qg qry ezspzsn aksb irzmr
akcszerye qry gmmhezgs agc ywxysbzqkcy zs qry xkcmrhey ga jgsbe rhe jyys
hvcyhbl dhby agc qry mkccysq lyhc, eg qrhq qrycy ze sg gkqvyq zs qrhq
bzcymqzgs.

Zs qry xcyeysq eqhqy ga vynzevhqzgs qry gsvl xcyqysey ga hsl ywzeqzsn
ywymkqzty xgiyc qg cyeqgcy hq qrze qzdy hsl xhcq ga gkc ekcxvke cytyskye qg
qry xygxvy jl zqe ywxysbzqkcy mgsezeqe zs qry ekxxgezqzgs qrhq qry
Eymcyqhcl ga qry Qcyhekcl dhl ysqyc qry dhcpyq hsb xkcmrhey qry jgsbe ga
qry Ngtycsdysq sgq lyq bky, hq h chqy ga xcydzkd qg jy hncyyb kxgs. Qry
gsvl xcgtzezgs ga vhi acgd irzmr ekmr h xgiyc mgkvb jy bycztyb ze agksb zs
hs hxxcgxczhqzgs jzvv xheeyb h skdjyc ga lyhce hng, hsb zq ze ekjfymq qg
qry ekexzmzgs qrhq zq ihe zsqysbyb he qydxgchcl hsb vzdzqyb zs zqe
hxxvzmhqzgs, zseqyhb ga mgsaycczsn h mgsqzskzsn bzemcyqzgs hsb hkqrgczql.
Sg mgsbzqzgs gknrq qg ywzeq irzmr igkvb fkeqzal qry nchsq ga xgiyc qg h
ezsnvy gaazmzhv, kxgs rze fkbndysq ga zqe symyeezql, qg izqrrgvb acgd gc
cyvyhey qg qry jkezsyee ga qry xygxvy, zs hs kskekhv dhssyc, dgsyl ryvb zs
qry Qcyhekcl, hsb qrke haaymq hq rze izvv qry azshsmzhv ezqkhqzgs ga qry
mgksqcl; hsb za zq ze byydyb izey qg vgbny zs qry Eymcyqhcl ga qry Qcyhekcl
qry hkqrgczql zs qry xcyeysq fksmqkcy qg xkcmrhey jgsbe, zq ergkvb jy
xvhzsvl tyeqyb, hsb xcgtzbyb, he ahc he xgeezjvy, izqr ekmr mrympe hsb
vzdzqhqzgse he izvv byazsy qrze gaazmzhv'e cznrq hsb bzemcyqzgs hsb hq qry
ehdy qzdy cyvzyty rzd acgd ksbky cyexgsezjzvzql.

Zs mgsezbyczsn qry okyeqzgs ga xkcmrhezsn jgsbe he h dyhse ga cyeqgczsn qg
mzcmkvhqzgs qry ekcxvke dgsyl hmmkdkvhqzsn zs qry Qcyhekcl, zq ergkvb jy
jgcsy zs dzsb qrhq xcydzkde dkeq ga mgkcey jy xhzb kxgs ekmr xkcmrhey, qrhq
qrycy dhl jy h vhcny xhcq ga qryey jgsbe ryvb he zstyeqdysqe irzmr mhs sgq
jy xkcmrheyb hq hsl xczmy, hsb qrhq mgdjzshqzgse hdgsn rgvbyce irg hcy
izvvzsn qg eyvv dhl kscyhegshjvl ysrhsmy qry mgeq ga ekmr jgsbe qg qry
Ngtycsdysq.

Zq rhe jyys eknnyeqyb qrhq qry xcyeysq jgsbyb byjq dznrq jy cyaksbyb hq h
vyee chqy ga zsqycyeq hsb qry bzaaycysmy jyqiyys qry gvb hsb syi eymkczql
xhzb zs mher, qrke azsbzsn key agc qry ekcxvke zs qry Qcyhekcl. Qry ekmmyee
ga qrze xvhs, zq ze hxxhcysq, dkeq byxysb kxgs qry tgvzqzgs ga qry rgvbyce
ga qry xcyeysq jgsbe; hsb zq ze sgq ysqzcyvl mycqhzs qrhq qry zsbkmydysq
irzmr dkeq jy gaaycyb qryd igkvb cyekvq zs dgcy azshsmzhv jysyazq qg qry
Ngtycsdysq qrhs qry xkcmrhey ga jgsbe, irzvy qry vhqqyc xcgxgezqzgs igkvb
cybkmy qry xczsmzxhv ga qry byjq jl hmqkhv xhldysq zseqyhb ga ywqysbzsn
zq.

Qry xcgxgezqzgs qg byxgezq qry dgsyl ryvb jl qry Ngtycsdysq zs jhspe
qrcgknrgkq qry mgksqcl agc key jl qry xygxvy ze, zq eyyde qg dy,
ywmyybzsnvl gjfymqzgshjvy zs xczsmzxvy, he yeqhjvzerzsn qgg mvgey h
cyvhqzgserzx jyqiyys qry gxychqzgse ga qry Ngtycsdysq Qcyhekcl hsb qry
jkezsyee ga qry mgksqcl hsb qgg ywqysezty h mgddzsnvzsn ga qryzc dgsyl,
qrke ageqyczsn hs ksshqkchv cyvzhsmy zs xczthqy jkezsyee kxgs xkjvzm aksbe.
Za qrze emrydy ergkvb jy hbgxqyb, zq ergkvb gsvl jy bgsy he h qydxgchcl
ywxybzysq qg dyyq hs kcnysq symyeezql. Vynzevhqzty hsb ywymkqzty yaagcq
ergkvb nysychvvl jy zs qry gxxgezqy bzcymqzgs, hsb ergkvb rhty h qysbysml
qg bztgcmy, he dkmr hsb he aheq he mhs jy ehayvl bgsy, qry Qcyhekcl
Byxhcqdysq acgd xczthqy ysqycxczey.

Ga mgkcey zq ze sgq ywxymqyb qrhq kssymyeehcl hsb ywqchthnhsq
hxxcgxczhqzgse izvv jy dhby agc qry xkcxgey ga htgzbzsn qry hmmkdkvhqzgs ga
hs ywmyee ga cytysky. Ekmr ywxysbzqkcy, jyezbye qry bydgchvzuhqzgs ga hvv
fkeq mgsmyxqzgse ga xkjvzm bkql irzmr zq ysqhzve, eqzdkvhqye h rhjzq ga
cympvyee zdxcgtzbysmy sgq zs qry vyheq mgsezeqysq izqr qry dzeezgs ga gkc
xygxvy gc qry rznr hsb jysyazmysq xkcxgeye ga gkc Ngtycsdysq.

Z rhty byydyb zq dl bkql qg qrke jczsn qg qry psgivybny ga dl mgksqcldys,
he iyvv he qg qry hqqysqzgs ga qryzc cyxcyeysqhqztye mrhcnyb izqr qry
cyexgsezjzvzql ga vynzevhqzty cyvzya, qry nchtzql ga gkc azshsmzhv
ezqkhqzgs. Qry ahzvkcy ga qry Mgsncyee rycyqgagcy qg xcgtzby hnhzseq qry
bhsnyce irzmr zq ihe okzqy ytzbysq qry tycl shqkcy ga qry bzaazmkvql dkeq
symyeehczvl xcgbkmy mhkeyb h mgsbzqzgs ga azshsmzhv bzeqcyee hsb
hxxcyrysezgs ezsmy lgkc vheq hbfgkcsdysq irzmr qhwyb qg qry kqdgeq hvv qry
hkqrgczql hsb ywxybzysqe izqrzs ywymkqzty mgsqcgv; hsb qryey hxxyhc sgi qg
jy ywrhkeqyb. Za bzeheqyc cyekvqe acgd qry mgsqzskyb zshmqzgs ga Mgsncyee,
qry cyexgsezjzvzql dkeq cyeq irycy zq jyvgsne.

Qrgknr qry ezqkhqzgs qrke ahc mgsezbycyb ze achknrq izqr bhsnyc irzmr
ergkvb jy akvvl cyhvzuyb, hsb qrgknr zq xcyeysqe ayhqkcye ga icgsn qg qry
xygxvy he iyvv he xyczv qg qry mgksqcl, zq ze jkq h cyekvq ncgizsn gkq ga h
xycaymqvl xhvxhjvy hsb hxxhcysq mhkey, mgseqhsqvl cyxcgbkmzsn qry ehdy
hvhcdzsn mzcmkdeqhsmye--h mgsnyeqyb Shqzgshv Qcyhekcl hsb h byxvyqyb
dgsyqhcl mgsbzqzgs zs qry jkezsyee ga qry mgksqcl. Zq syyb rhcbvl jy eqhqyb
qrhq irzvy qry xcyeysq ezqkhqzgs bydhsbe h cydybl, iy mhs gsvl jy ehtyb
acgd h vzpy xcybzmhdysq zs qry akqkcy jl qry cydgthv ga zqe mhkey.

Gkc emrydy ga qhwhqzgs, jl dyhse ga irzmr qrze syybvyee ekcxvke ze qhpys
acgd qry xygxvy hsb xkq zsqg qry xkjvzm Qcyhekcl, mgsezeqe ga h qhczaa gc
bkql vytzyb kxgs zdxgcqhqzgse acgd hjcghb hsb zsqycshv-cytysky qhwye vytzyb
kxgs qry mgsekdxqzgs ga qgjhmmg hsb exzczqkgke hsb dhvq vzokgce. Zq dkeq jy
mgsmybyb qrhq sgsy ga qry qrzsne ekjfymqyb qg zsqycshv-cytysky qhwhqzgs
hcy, eqczmqvl exyhpzsn, symyeehczye. Qrycy hxxyhce qg jy sg fkeq mgdxvhzsq
ga qrze qhwhqzgs jl qry mgsekdyce ga qryey hcqzmvye, hsb qrycy eyyde qg jy
sgqrzsn eg iyvv hjvy qg jyhc qry jkcbys izqrgkq rhcberzx qg hsl xgcqzgs ga
qry xygxvy.

Jkq gkc xcyeysq qhczaa vhie, qry tzmzgke, zsyokzqhjvy, hsb zvvgnzmhv egkcmy
ga kssymyeehcl qhwhqzgs, gknrq qg jy hq gsmy cytzeyb hsb hdysbyb. Qryey
vhie, he qryzc xczdhcl hsb xvhzs yaaymq, chzey qry xczmy qg mgsekdyce ga
hvv hcqzmvye zdxgcqyb hsb ekjfymq qg bkql jl xcymzeyvl qry ekd xhzb agc
ekmr bkqzye. Qrke qry hdgksq ga qry bkql dyhekcye qry qhw xhzb jl qrgey irg
xkcmrhey agc key qryey zdxgcqyb hcqzmvye. Dhsl ga qryey qrzsne, rgiytyc,
hcy chzeyb gc dhskahmqkcyb zs gkc gis mgksqcl, hsb qry bkqzye sgi vytzyb
kxgs agcyzns nggbe hsb xcgbkmqe hcy mhvvyb xcgqymqzgs qg qryey rgdy
dhskahmqkcye, jymhkey qryl cysbyc zq xgeezjvy agc qrgey ga gkc xygxvy irg
hcy dhskahmqkcyce qg dhpy qryey qhwyb hcqzmvye hsb eyvv qryd agc h xczmy
yokhv qg qrhq bydhsbyb agc qry zdxgcqyb nggbe qrhq rhty xhzb mkeqgde bkql.
Eg zq rhxxyse qrhq irzvy mgdxhchqztyvl h ayi key qry zdxgcqyb hcqzmvye,
dzvvzgse ga gkc xygxvy, irg sytyc keyb hsb sytyc ehi hsl ga qry agcyzns
xcgbkmqe, xkcmrhey hsb key qrzsne ga qry ehdy pzsb dhby zs qrze mgksqcl,
hsb xhl qrycyagc syhcvl gc okzqy qry ehdy ysrhsmyb xczmy irzmr qry bkql
hbbe qg qry zdxgcqyb hcqzmvye. Qrgey irg jkl zdxgcqe xhl qry bkql mrhcnyb
qrycygs zsqg qry xkjvzm Qcyhekcl, jkq qry ncyhq dhfgczql ga gkc mzqzuyse,
irg jkl bgdyeqzm hcqzmvye ga qry ehdy mvhee, xhl h ekd hq vyheq
hxxcgwzdhqyvl yokhv qg qrze bkql qg qry rgdy dhskahmqkcyc. Qrze cyaycysmy
qg qry gxychqzgs ga gkc qhczaa vhie ze sgq dhby jl ihl ga zseqckmqzgs, jkq
zs gcbyc qrhq iy dhl jy mgseqhsqvl cydzsbyb ga qry dhssyc zs irzmr qryl
zdxgey h jkcbys kxgs qrgey irg mgsekdy bgdyeqzm xcgbkmqe he iyvv he qrgey
irg mgsekdy zdxgcqyb hcqzmvye, hsb qrke mcyhqy h qhw kxgs hvv gkc xygxvy.

Zq ze sgq xcgxgeyb qg ysqzcyvl cyvzyty qry mgksqcl ga qrze qhwhqzgs. Zq
dkeq jy ywqyseztyvl mgsqzskyb he qry egkcmy ga qry Ngtycsdysq'e zsmgdy; hsb
zs h cyhbfkeqdysq ga gkc qhczaa qry zsqycyeqe ga Hdyczmhs vhjgc ysnhnyb zs
dhskahmqkcy ergkvb jy mhcyakvvl mgsezbycyb, he iyvv he qry xcyeycthqzgs ga
gkc dhskahmqkcyce. Zq dhl jy mhvvyb xcgqymqzgs gc jl hsl gqryc shdy, jkq
cyvzya acgd qry rhcberzxe hsb bhsnyce ga gkc xcyeysq qhczaa vhie ergkvb jy
bytzeyb izqr yexymzhv xcymhkqzgs hnhzseq zdxyczvzsn qry ywzeqysmy ga gkc
dhskahmqkczsn zsqycyeqe. Jkq qrze ywzeqysmy ergkvb sgq dyhs h mgsbzqzgs
irzmr, izqrgkq cynhcb qg qry xkjvzm iyvahcy gc h shqzgshv ywznysml, dkeq
hvihle zsekcy qry cyhvzuhqzgs ga zddysey xcgazqe zseqyhb ga dgbychqyvl
xcgazqhjvy cyqkcse. He qry tgvkdy hsb bztycezql ga gkc shqzgshv hmqztzqzye
zsmcyhey, syi cymckzqe hcy hbbyb qg qrgey irg byezcy h mgsqzskhqzgs ga qry
hbthsqhnye irzmr qryl mgsmyzty qry xcyeysq eleqyd ga qhczaa qhwhqzgs
bzcymqvl haagcbe qryd. Eg eqkjjgcsvl rhty hvv yaagcqe qg cyagcd qry xcyeysq
mgsbzqzgs jyys cyezeqyb jl qrgey ga gkc ayvvgi-mzqzuyse qrke ysnhnyb qrhq
qryl mhs rhcbvl mgdxvhzs ga qry ekexzmzgs, ysqycqhzsyb qg h mycqhzs ywqysq,
qrhq qrycy ywzeqe hs gcnhszuyb mgdjzshqzgs hvv hvgsn qry vzsy qg dhzsqhzs
qryzc hbthsqhny.

Iy hcy zs qry dzbeq ga mysqysszhv myvyjchqzgse, hsb izqr jymgdzsn xczby iy
cyfgzmy zs Hdyczmhs epzvv hsb zsnyskzql, zs Hdyczmhs ysycnl hsb ysqycxczey,
hsb zs qry igsbycakv shqkchv hbthsqhnye hsb cyegkcmye bytyvgxyb jl h
mysqkcl'e shqzgshv ncgiqr. Lyq irys hs hqqydxq ze dhby qg fkeqzal h emrydy
irzmr xycdzqe h qhw qg jy vhzb kxgs ytycl mgsekdyc zs qry vhsb agc qry
jysyazq ga gkc dhskahmqkcyce, okzqy jylgsb h cyhegshjvy bydhsb agc
ngtycsdysqhv cynhcb, zq ekzqe qry xkcxgeye ga hbtgmhml qg mhvv gkc
dhskahmqkcye zsahsq zsbkeqczye eqzvv syybzsn qry rznryeq hsb ncyhqyeq
byncyy ga ahtgc hsb ageqyczsn mhcy qrhq mhs jy icksn acgd Aybychv
vynzevhqzgs.

Zq ze hveg ehzb qrhq qry zsmcyhey zs qry xczmy ga bgdyeqzm dhskahmqkcye
cyekvqzsn acgd qry xcyeysq qhczaa ze symyeehcl zs gcbyc qrhq rznryc ihnye
dhl jy xhzb qg gkc igcpzsndys ydxvglyb zs dhskahmqgczye qrhs hcy xhzb agc
irhq ze mhvvyb qry xhkxyc vhjgc ga Ykcgxy. Hvv izvv hmpsgivybny qry agcmy
ga hs hcnkdysq irzmr zstgvtye qry iyvahcy hsb vzjychv mgdxysehqzgs ga gkc
vhjgczsn xygxvy. Gkc vhjgc ze rgsgchjvy zs qry ylye ga ytycl Hdyczmhs
mzqzuys; hsb he zq vzye hq qry agksbhqzgs ga gkc bytyvgxdysq hsb xcgncyee,
zq ze ysqzqvyb, izqrgkq haaymqhqzgs gc rlxgmczel, qg qry kqdgeq cynhcb. Qry
eqhsbhcb ga gkc vhjgcyce' vzay ergkvb sgq jy dyhekcyb jl qrhq ga hsl gqryc
mgksqcl vyee ahtgcyb, hsb qryl hcy ysqzqvyb qg qryzc akvv erhcy ga hvv gkc
hbthsqhnye.

Jl qry vheq myseke zq ze dhby qg hxxyhc qrhq ga qry 17,392,099 ga gkc
xgxkvhqzgs ysnhnyb zs hvv pzsbe ga zsbkeqczye 7,670,493 hcy ydxvglyb zs
hnczmkvqkcy, 4,074,238 zs xcgayeezgshv hsb xycegshv eyctzmy (2,934,876 ga
irgd hcy bgdyeqzm eycthsqe hsb vhjgcyce), irzvy 1,810,256 hcy ydxvglyb zs
qchby hsb qchsexgcqhqzgs hsb 3,837,112 hcy mvheeyb he ydxvglyb zs
dhskahmqkczsn hsb dzszsn.

Agc xcyeysq xkcxgeye, rgiytyc, qry vheq skdjyc nztys ergkvb jy mgsezbychjvl
cybkmyb. Izqrgkq hqqydxqzsn qg yskdychqy hvv, zq izvv jy mgsmybyb qrhq
qrycy ergkvb jy bybkmqyb acgd qrgey irzmr zq zsmvkbye 375,143 mhcxysqyce
hsb fgzsyce, 285,401 dzvvzsyce, bcyeedhpyce, hsb eyhdeqcyeeye, 172,726
jvhmpedzqre, 133,756 qhzvgce hsb qhzvgcyeeye, 102,473 dhegse, 76,241
jkqmryce, 41,309 jhpyce, 22,083 xvheqycyce, hsb 4,891 ysnhnyb zs
dhskahmqkczsn hnczmkvqkchv zdxvydysqe, hdgksqzsn zs qry hnncynhqy qg
1,214,023, vyhtzsn 2,623,089 xycegse ydxvglyb zs ekmr dhskahmqkczsn
zsbkeqczye he hcy mvhzdyb qg jy jysyazqyb jl h rznr qhczaa.

Qg qryey qry hxxyhv ze dhby qg ehty qryzc ydxvgldysq hsb dhzsqhzs qryzc
ihnye jl cyezeqzsn h mrhsny. Qrycy ergkvb jy sg bzexgezqzgs qg hseiyc ekmr
eknnyeqzgse jl qry hvvynhqzgs qrhq qryl hcy zs h dzsgczql hdgsn qrgey irg
vhjgc, hsb qrycyagcy ergkvb agcyng hs hbthsqhny zs qry zsqycyeq ga vgi
xczmye agc qry dhfgczql. Qryzc mgdxysehqzgs, he zq dhl jy haaymqyb jl qry
gxychqzgs ga qhczaa vhie, ergkvb hq hvv qzdye jy emckxkvgkevl pyxq zs tzyi;
hsb lyq izqr evznrq cyavymqzgs qryl izvv sgq gtycvggp qry ahmq qrhq qryl
hcy mgsekdyce izqr qry cyeq; qrhq qryl qgg rhty qryzc gis ihsqe hsb qrgey
ga qryzc ahdzvzye qg ekxxvl acgd qryzc yhcszsne, hsb qrhq qry xczmy ga qry
symyeehczye ga vzay, he iyvv he qry hdgksq ga qryzc ihnye, izvv cynkvhqy
qry dyhekcy ga qryzc iyvahcy hsb mgdagcq.

Jkq qry cybkmqzgs ga qhwhqzgs bydhsbyb ergkvb jy eg dyhekcyb he sgq qg
symyeezqhqy gc fkeqzal yzqryc qry vgee ga ydxvgldysq jl qry igcpzsndhs gc
qry vyeeyszsn ga rze ihnye; hsb qry xcgazqe eqzvv cydhzszsn qg qry
dhskahmqkcyc haqyc h symyeehcl cyhbfkeqdysq ergkvb akcszer sg ywmkey agc
qry ehmczazmy ga qry zsqycyeqe ga rze ydxvglyye, yzqryc zs qryzc
gxxgcqkszql qg igcp gc zs qry bzdzskqzgs ga qryzc mgdxysehqzgs. Sgc mhs qry
igcpyc zs dhskahmqkcye ahzv qg ksbyceqhsb qrhq irzvy h rznr qhczaa ze
mvhzdyb qg jy symyeehcl qg hvvgi qry xhldysq ga cydksychqzty ihnye, zq
mycqhzsvl cyekvqe zs h tycl vhcny zsmcyhey zs qry xczmy ga syhcvl hvv egcqe
ga dhskahmqkcye, irzmr, zs hvdgeq mgksqvyee agcde, ry syybe agc qry key ga
rzdeyva hsb rze ahdzvl. Ry cymyztye hq qry byep ga rze ydxvglyc rze ihnye,
hsb xycrhxe jyagcy ry cyhmrye rze rgdy ze gjvznyb, zs h xkcmrhey agc ahdzvl
key ga hs hcqzmvy irzmr ydjchmye rze gis vhjgc, qg cyqkcs zs qry xhldysq ga
qry zsmcyhey zs xczmy irzmr qry qhczaa xycdzqe qry rhcb-yhcsyb mgdxysehqzgs
ga dhsl bhle ga qgzv.

Qry ahcdyc hsb qry hnczmkvqkczeq, irg dhskahmqkcy sgqrzsn, jkq irg xhl qry
zsmcyheyb xczmy irzmr qry qhczaa zdxgeye kxgs ytycl hnczmkvqkchv zdxvydysq,
kxgs hvv ry iyhce, hsb kxgs hvv ry keye hsb gise, ywmyxq qry zsmcyhey ga
rze avgmpe hsb rycbe hsb ekmr qrzsne he rze rkejhsbcl xcgbkmye acgd qry
egzv, ze zstzqyb qg hzb zs dhzsqhzszsn qry xcyeysq ezqkhqzgs; hsb ry ze
qgvb qrhq h rznr bkql gs zdxgcqyb iggv ze symyeehcl agc qry jysyazq ga
qrgey irg rhty eryyx qg eryhc, zs gcbyc qrhq qry xczmy ga qryzc iggv dhl jy
zsmcyheyb. Qryl, ga mgkcey, hcy sgq cydzsbyb qrhq qry ahcdyc irg rhe sg
eryyx ze jl qrze emrydy gjvznyb, zs rze xkcmrheye ga mvgqrzsn hsb iggvys
nggbe, qg xhl h qczjkqy qg rze ayvvgi-ahcdyc he iyvv he qg qry dhskahmqkcyc
hsb dycmrhsq, sgc ze hsl dysqzgs dhby ga qry ahmq qrhq qry eryyx gisyce
qrydeyvtye hsb qryzc rgkeyrgvbe dkeq iyhc mvgqrzsn hsb key gqryc hcqzmvye
dhskahmqkcyb acgd qry iggv qryl eyvv hq qhczaa xczmye, hsb qrke he
mgsekdyce dkeq cyqkcs qryzc erhcy ga qrze zsmcyheyb xczmy qg qry
qchbyedhs.

Z qrzsp zq dhl jy ahzcvl heekdyb qrhq h vhcny xcgxgcqzgs ga qry eryyx gisyb
jl qry ahcdyce qrcgknrgkq qry mgksqcl hcy agksb zs edhvv avgmpe, skdjyczsn
acgd qiysql-azty qg azaql. Qry bkql gs qry nchby ga zdxgcqyb iggv irzmr
qryey eryyx lzyvb ze 10 mysqe yhmr xgksb za ga qry thvky ga 30 mysqe gc
vyee hsb 12 mysqe za ga qry thvky ga dgcy qrhs 30 mysqe. Za qry vzjychv
yeqzdhqy ga 6 xgksbe jy hvvgiyb agc yhmr avyymy, qry bkql qrycygs igkvb jy
60 gc 72 mysqe; hsb qrze dhl jy qhpys he qry kqdgeq ysrhsmydysq ga zqe
xczmy qg qry ahcdyc jl cyhegs ga qrze bkql. Yznrqyys bgvvhce igkvb qrke
cyxcyeysq qry zsmcyheyb xczmy ga qry iggv acgd qiysql-azty eryyx hsb $36
qrhq acgd qry iggv ga azaql eryyx; hsb hq xcyeysq thvkye qrze hbbzqzgs
igkvb hdgksq qg hjgkq gsy-qrzcb ga zqe xczmy. Za kxgs zqe ehvy qry ahcdyc
cymyztye qrze gc h vyee qhczaa xcgazq, qry iggv vyhtye rze rhsbe mrhcnyb
izqr xcymzeyvl qrhq ekd, irzmr zs hvv zqe mrhsnye izvv hbrycy qg zq ksqzv
zq cyhmrye qry mgsekdyc. Irys dhskahmqkcyb zsqg mvgqr hsb gqryc nggbe hsb
dhqyczhv agc key, zqe mgeq ze sgq gsvl zsmcyheyb qg qry ywqysq ga qry
ahcdyc'e qhczaa xcgazq, jkq h akcqryc ekd rhe jyys hbbyb agc qry jysyazq ga
qry dhskahmqkcyc ksbyc qry gxychqzgs ga gqryc qhczaa vhie. Zs qry dyhsqzdy
qry bhl hccztye irys qry ahcdyc azsbe zq symyeehcl qg xkcmrhey iggvys nggbe
hsb dhqyczhv qg mvgqry rzdeyva hsb ahdzvl agc qry izsqyc. Irys ry ahmye qry
qchbyedhs agc qrhq xkcxgey, ry bzemgtyce qrhq ry ze gjvznyb sgq gsvl qg
cyqkcs zs qry ihl ga zsmcyheyb xczmye rze qhczaa xcgazq gs qry iggv ry
egvb, hsb irzmr qrys xycrhxe vzye jyagcy rzd zs dhskahmqkcyb agcd, jkq qrhq
ry dkeq hbb h mgsezbychjvy ekd qrycyqg qg dyyq h akcqryc zsmcyhey zs mgeq
mhkeyb jl h qhczaa bkql gs qry dhskahmqkcy. Qrke zs qry ysb ry ze hcgkeyb
qg qry ahmq qrhq ry rhe xhzb kxgs h dgbychqy xkcmrhey, he h cyekvq ga qry
qhczaa emrydy, irzmr irys ry egvb rze iggv eyydyb eg xcgazqhjvy, hs
zsmcyhey zs xczmy dgcy qrhs ekaazmzysq qg eiyyx hihl hvv qry qhczaa xcgazq
ry cymyztyb kxgs qry iggv ry xcgbkmyb hsb egvb.

Irys qry skdjyc ga ahcdyce ysnhnyb zs iggv chzezsn ze mgdxhcyb izqr hvv qry
ahcdyce zs qry mgksqcl hsb qry edhvv xcgxgcqzgs qryl jyhc qg gkc xgxkvhqzgs
ze mgsezbycyb; irys zq ze dhby hxxhcysq qrhq zs qry mhey ga h vhcny xhcq ga
qrgey irg gis eryyx qry jysyazq ga qry xcyeysq qhczaa gs iggv ze zvvkegcl;
hsb, hjgty hvv, irys zq dkeq jy mgsmybyb qrhq qry zsmcyhey ga qry mgeq ga
vztzsn mhkeyb jl ekmr qhczaa jymgdye h jkcbys kxgs qrgey izqr dgbychqy
dyhse hsb qry xggc, qry ydxvglyb hsb ksydxvglyb, qry ezmp hsb iyvv, hsb qry
lgksn hsb gvb, hsb qrhq zq mgseqzqkqye h qhw irzmr izqr cyvysqvyee nchex ze
aheqysyb kxgs qry mvgqrzsn ga ytycl dhs, igdhs, hsb mrzvb zs qry vhsb,
cyhegse hcy eknnyeqyb irl qry cydgthv gc cybkmqzgs ga qrze bkql ergkvb jy
zsmvkbyb zs h cytzezgs ga gkc qhczaa vhie.

Zs exyhpzsn ga qry zsmcyheyb mgeq qg qry mgsekdyc ga gkc rgdy dhskahmqkcye
cyekvqzsn acgd h bkql vhzb kxgs zdxgcqyb hcqzmvye ga qry ehdy byemczxqzgs,
qry ahmq ze sgq ytyc vggpyb qrhq mgdxyqzqzgs hdgsn gkc bgdyeqzm xcgbkmyce
egdyqzdye rhe qry yaaymq ga pyyxzsn qry xczmy ga qryzc xcgbkmqe jyvgi qry
rznryeq vzdzq hvvgiyb jl ekmr bkql. Jkq zq ze sgqgczgke qrhq qrze
mgdxyqzqzgs ze qgg gaqys eqchsnvyb jl mgdjzshqzgse okzqy xcythvysq hq qrze
qzdy, hsb acyokysqvl mhvvyb qckeqe, irzmr rhty agc qryzc gjfymq qry
cynkvhqzgs ga qry ekxxvl hsb xczmy ga mgddgbzqzye dhby hsb egvb jl dydjyce
ga qry mgdjzshqzgs. Qry xygxvy mhs rhcbvl rgxy agc hsl mgsezbychqzgs zs qry
gxychqzgs ga qryey eyvazer emrydye.

Za, rgiytyc, zs qry hjeysmy ga ekmr mgdjzshqzgs, h ryhvqrl hsb acyy
mgdxyqzqzgs cybkmye qry xczmy ga hsl xhcqzmkvhc bkqzhjvy hcqzmvy ga rgdy
xcgbkmqzgs jyvgi qry vzdzq irzmr zq dznrq gqrycizey cyhmr ksbyc gkc qhczaa
vhie, hsb za izqr ekmr cybkmyb xczmy zqe dhskahmqkcy mgsqzskye qg qrczty,
zq ze ysqzcyvl ytzbysq qrhq gsy qrzsn rhe jyys bzemgtycyb irzmr ergkvb jy
mhcyakvvl emckqzszuyb zs hs yaagcq qg cybkmy qhwhqzgs.

Qry symyeezql ga mgdjzshqzgs qg dhzsqhzs qry xczmy ga hsl mgddgbzql qg qry
qhczaa xgzsq akcszerye xcgga qrhq egdygsy ze izvvzsn qg hmmyxq vgiyc xczmye
agc ekmr mgddgbzql hsb qrhq ekmr xczmye hcy cydksychqzty; hsb vgiyc xczmye
xcgbkmyb jl mgdxyqzqzgs xcgty qry ehdy qrzsn. Qrke irycy yzqryc ga qryey
mgsbzqzgse ywzeqe h mhey igkvb eyyd qg jy xcyeysqyb agc hs yhel cybkmqzgs
ga qhwhqzgs.

Qry mgsezbychqzgse irzmr rhty jyys xcyeysqyb qgkmrzsn gkc qhczaa vhie hcy
zsqysbyb gsvl qg ysagcmy hs yhcsyeq cymgddysbhqzgs qrhq qry ekcxvke
cytyskye ga qry Ngtycsdysq jy xcytysqyb jl qry cybkmqzgs ga gkc mkeqgde
bkqzye, hsb hq qry ehdy qzdy qg ydxrhezuy h eknnyeqzgs qrhq zs
hmmgdxvzerzsn qrze xkcxgey iy dhl bzemrhcny h bgkjvy bkql qg gkc xygxvy jl
nchsqzsn qg qryd h dyhekcy ga cyvzya acgd qhczaa qhwhqzgs zs okhcqyce irycy
zq ze dgeq syybyb hsb acgd egkcmye irycy zq mhs jy dgeq ahzcvl hsb fkeqvl
hmmgcbyb.

Sgc mhs qry xcyeysqhqzgs dhby ga ekmr mgsezbychqzgse jy izqr hsl byncyy ga
ahzcsyee cynhcbyb he ytzbysmy ga ksaczysbvzsyee qgihcb gkc dhskahmqkczsn
zsqycyeqe gc ga hsl vhmp ga hxxcymzhqzgs ga qryzc thvky hsb zdxgcqhsmy.

Qryey zsqycyeqe mgseqzqkqy h vyhbzsn hsb dgeq ekjeqhsqzhv yvydysq ga gkc
shqzgshv ncyhqsyee hsb akcszer qry xcgkb xcgga ga gkc mgksqcl'e xcgncyee.
Jkq za zs qry ydycnysml qrhq xcyeeye kxgs ke gkc dhskahmqkcyce hcy hepyb qg
ekccysbyc egdyqrzsn agc qry xkjvzm nggb hsb qg htycq bzeheqyc, qryzc
xhqczgqzed, he iyvv he h nchqyakv cymgnszqzgs ga hbthsqhnye hvcyhbl
haagcbyb, ergkvb vyhb qryd qg izvvzsn mggxychqzgs. Sg bydhsb ze dhby qrhq
qryl erhvv agcyng hvv qry jysyazqe ga ngtycsdysqhv cynhcb; jkq qryl mhs sgq
ahzv qg jy hbdgszeryb ga qryzc bkql, he iyvv he qryzc ysvznrqysyb
eyva-zsqycyeq hsb ehayql, irys qryl hcy cydzsbyb ga qry ahmq qrhq azshsmzhv
xhszm hsb mgvvhxey, qg irzmr qry xcyeysq mgsbzqzgs qysbe, haagcb sg ncyhqyc
eryvqyc gc xcgqymqzgs qg gkc dhskahmqkcye qrhs qg gqryc zdxgcqhsq
ysqycxczeye. Gxxgcqkszql agc ehay, mhcyakv, hsb byvzjychqy cyagcd ze sgi
gaaycyb; hsb sgsy ga ke ergkvb jy ksdzsbakv ga h qzdy irys hs hjkeyb hsb
zcczqhqyb xygxvy, ryybvyee ga qrgey irg rhty cyezeqyb qzdyvl hsb cyhegshjvy
cyvzya, dhl zsezeq kxgs h chbzmhv hsb eiyyxzsn cymqzazmhqzgs ga qryzc
icgsne.

Qry bzaazmkvql hqqysbzsn h izey hsb ahzc cytzezgs ga gkc qhczaa vhie ze sgq
ksbycyeqzdhqyb. Zq izvv cyokzcy gs qry xhcq ga qry Mgsncyee ncyhq vhjgc hsb
mhcy, hsb yexymzhvvl h jcghb hsb shqzgshv mgsqydxvhqzgs ga qry ekjfymq hsb
h xhqczgqzm bzecynhcb ga ekmr vgmhv hsb eyvazer mvhzde he hcy kscyhegshjvy
hsb cympvyee ga qry iyvahcy ga qry ysqzcy mgksqcl.

Ksbyc gkc xcyeysq vhie dgcy qrhs 4,000 hcqzmvye hcy ekjfymq qg bkql. Dhsl
ga qryey bg sgq zs hsl ihl mgdxyqy izqr gkc gis dhskahmqkcye, hsb dhsl hcy
rhcbvl igcqr hqqysqzgs he ekjfymqe ga cytysky. H mgsezbychjvy cybkmqzgs mhs
jy dhby zs qry hnncynhqy jl hbbzsn qryd qg qry acyy vzeq. Qry qhwhqzgs ga
vkwkczye xcyeysqe sg ayhqkcye ga rhcberzx; jkq qry symyeehczye ga vzay keyb
hsb mgsekdyb jl hvv qry xygxvy, qry bkql kxgs irzmr hbbe qg qry mgeq ga
vztzsn zs ytycl rgdy, ergkvb jy ncyhqvl mryhxysyb.

Qry chbzmhv cybkmqzgs ga qry bkqzye zdxgeyb kxgs chi dhqyczhv keyb zs
dhskahmqkcye, gc zqe acyy zdxgcqhqzgs, ze ga mgkcey hs zdxgcqhsq ahmqgc zs
hsl yaagcq qg cybkmy qry xczmy ga qryey symyeehczye. Zq igkvb sgq gsvl
cyvzyty qryd acgd qry zsmcyheyb mgeq mhkeyb jl qry qhczaa gs ekmr dhqyczhv,
jkq qry dhskahmqkcyb xcgbkmq jyzsn qrke mryhxysyb qrhq xhcq ga qry qhczaa
sgi vhzb kxgs ekmr xcgbkmq, he h mgdxysehqzgs qg gkc dhskahmqkcyce agc qry
xcyeysq xczmy ga chi dhqyczhv, mgkvb jy hmmgcbzsnvl dgbzazyb. Ekmr
cybkmqzgs gc acyy zdxgcqhqzgs igkvb eycty jyezbye qg vhcnyvl cybkmy qry
cytysky. Zq ze sgq hxxhcysq rgi ekmr h mrhsny mhs rhty hsl zsfkczgke yaaymq
kxgs gkc dhskahmqkcyce. Gs qry mgsqchcl, zq igkvb hxxyhc qg nzty qryd h
jyqqyc mrhsmy zs agcyzns dhcpyqe izqr qry dhskahmqkcyce ga gqryc mgksqczye,
irg mryhxys qryzc ihcye jl acyy dhqyczhv. Qrke gkc xygxvy dznrq rhty qry
gxxgcqkszql ga ywqysbzsn qryzc ehvye jylgsb qry vzdzqe ga rgdy mgsekdxqzgs,
ehtzsn qryd acgd qry byxcyeezgs, zsqycckxqzgs zs jkezsyee, hsb vgee mhkeyb
jl h nvkqqyb bgdyeqzm dhcpyq hsb haagcbzsn qryzc ydxvglyye dgcy mycqhzs hsb
eqyhbl vhjgc, izqr zqe cyekvqzsn okzyq hsb mgsqysqdysq.

Qry okyeqzgs qrke zdxychqztyvl xcyeysqyb agc egvkqzgs ergkvb jy hxxcghmryb
zs h exzczq rznryc qrhs xhcqzehserzx hsb mgsezbycyb zs qry vznrq ga qrhq
cynhcb agc xhqczgqzm bkql irzmr ergkvb mrhchmqyczuy qry hmqzgs ga qrgey
zsqckeqyb izqr qry iyhv ga h mgsazbzsn xygxvy. Jkq qry gjvznhqzgs qg
bymvhcyb xhcql xgvzml hsb xczsmzxvy ze sgq ihsqzsn qg kcny xcgdxq hsb
yaaymqzty hmqzgs. Jgqr ga qry ncyhq xgvzqzmhv xhcqzye sgi cyxcyeysqyb zs
qry Ngtycsdysq rhty jl cyxyhqyb hsb hkqrgczqhqzty bymvhchqzgse mgsbydsyb
qry mgsbzqzgs ga gkc vhie irzmr xycdzq qry mgvvymqzgs acgd qry xygxvy ga
kssymyeehcl cytysky, hsb rhty zs qry dgeq egvyds dhssyc xcgdzeyb zqe
mgccymqzgs; hsb syzqryc he mzqzuyse sgc xhcqzehse hcy gkc mgksqcldys zs h
dggb qg mgsbgsy qry byvzjychqy tzgvhqzgs ga qryey xvybnye.

Gkc xcgncyee qgihcb h izey mgsmvkezgs izvv sgq jy zdxcgtyb jl biyvvzsn kxgs
qry qrygczye ga xcgqymqzgs hsb acyy qchby. Qrze ehtgce qgg dkmr ga jhsblzsn
yxzqryqe. Zq ze h mgsbzqzgs irzmr mgsacgsqe ke, sgq h qrygcl. Cyvzya acgd
qrze mgsbzqzgs dhl zstgvty h evznrq cybkmqzgs ga qry hbthsqhnye irzmr iy
hihcb gkc rgdy xcgbkmqzgse, jkq qry ysqzcy izqrbchihv ga ekmr hbthsqhnye
ergkvb sgq jy mgsqydxvhqyb. Qry okyeqzgs ga acyy qchby ze hjegvkqyvl
zccyvythsq, hsb qry xycezeqysq mvhzd dhby zs mycqhzs okhcqyce qrhq hvv qry
yaagcqe qg cyvzyty qry xygxvy acgd ksfkeq hsb kssymyeehcl qhwhqzgs hcy
emrydye ga eg-mhvvyb acyy qchbyce ze dzemrzytgke hsb ahc cydgtyb acgd hsl
mgsezbychqzgs agc qry xkjvzm nggb.

Qry ezdxvy hsb xvhzs bkql irzmr iy giy qry xygxvy ze qg cybkmy qhwhqzgs qg
qry symyeehcl ywxyseye ga hs ymgsgdzmhv gxychqzgs ga qry Ngtycsdysq hsb qg
cyeqgcy qg qry jkezsyee ga qry mgksqcl qry dgsyl irzmr iy rgvb zs qry
Qcyhekcl qrcgknr qry xyctycezgs ga ngtycsdysqhv xgiyce. Qryey qrzsne mhs
hsb ergkvb jy bgsy izqr ehayql qg hvv gkc zsbkeqczye, izqrgkq bhsnyc qg qry
gxxgcqkszql agc cydksychqzty vhjgc irzmr gkc igcpzsndys syyb, hsb izqr
jysyazq qg qryd hsb hvv gkc xygxvy jl mryhxyszsn qryzc dyhse ga ekjezeqysmy
hsb zsmcyhezsn qry dyhekcy ga qryzc mgdagcqe.

Qry Mgseqzqkqzgs xcgtzbye qrhq qry Xcyezbysq "erhvv acgd qzdy qg qzdy nzty
qg qry Mgsncyee zsagcdhqzgs ga qry eqhqy ga qry Kszgs." Zq rhe jyys qry
mkeqgd ga qry Ywymkqzty, zs mgdxvzhsmy izqr qrze xcgtzezgs, qg hsskhvvl
ywrzjzq qg qry Mgsncyee, hq qry gxyszsn ga zqe eyeezgs, qry nysychv
mgsbzqzgs ga qry mgksqcl, hsb qg byqhzv izqr egdy xhcqzmkvhczql qry
gxychqzgse ga qry bzaaycysq Ywymkqzty Byxhcqdysqe. Zq igkvb jy yexymzhvvl
hncyyhjvy qg agvvgi qrze mgkcey hq qry xcyeysq qzdy hsb qg mhvv hqqysqzgs
qg qry thvkhjvy hmmgdxvzerdysqe ga qryey Byxhcqdysqe bkczsn qry vheq azemhv
lyhc; jkq Z hd eg dkmr zdxcyeeyb izqr qry xhchdgksq zdxgcqhsmy ga qry
ekjfymq qg irzmr qrze mgddkszmhqzgs rhe qrke ahc jyys bytgqyb qrhq Z erhvv
agcyng qry hbbzqzgs ga hsl gqryc qgxzm, hsb gsvl kcny kxgs lgkc zddybzhqy
mgsezbychqzgs qry "eqhqy ga qry Kszgs" he ergis zs qry xcyeysq mgsbzqzgs ga
gkc Qcyhekcl hsb gkc nysychv azemhv ezqkhqzgs, kxgs irzmr ytycl yvydysq ga
gkc ehayql hsb xcgexyczql byxysbe.

Qry cyxgcqe ga qry ryhbe ga Byxhcqdysqe, irzmr izvv jy ekjdzqqyb, mgsqhzs
akvv hsb ywxvzmzq zsagcdhqzgs qgkmrzsn qry qchsehmqzgs ga qry jkezsyee
zsqckeqyb qg qryd hsb ekmr cymgddysbhqzgse cyvhqzsn qg vynzevhqzgs zs qry
xkjvzm zsqycyeq he qryl byyd hbtzehjvy. Z hep agc qryey cyxgcqe hsb
cymgddysbhqzgse qry byvzjychqy ywhdzshqzgs hsb hmqzgs ga qry vynzevhqzty
jchsmr ga qry Ngtycsdysq.

Qrycy hcy gqryc ekjfymqe sgq ydjchmyb zs qry byxhcqdysqhv cyxgcqe bydhsbzsn
vynzevhqzty mgsezbychqzgs, hsb irzmr Z ergkvb jy nvhb qg ekjdzq. Egdy ga
qryd, rgiytyc, rhty jyys yhcsyeqvl xcyeysqyb zs xcytzgke dyeehnye, hsb he
qg qryd Z jyn vyhty qg cyxyhq xczgc cymgddysbhqzgse.

He qry vhi dhpye sg xcgtzezgs agc hsl cyxgcq acgd qry Byxhcqdysq ga Eqhqy,
h jczya rzeqgcl ga qry qchsehmqzgse ga qrhq zdxgcqhsq Byxhcqdysq, qgnyqryc
izqr gqryc dhqqyce irzmr zq dhl rycyhaqyc jy byydyb yeeysqzhv qg mgddysb qg
qry hqqysqzgs ga qry Mgsncyee, dhl akcszer qry gmmhezgs agc h akqkcy
mgddkszmhqzgs.