Vh vxn Uhajgnpp he vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp:

Vxn uhapvkvrvkhast mrvw qxkux gnlrkgnp vxn Bgnpkmnav egho vkon vh vkon vh jkzn
vh vxn Uhajgnpp kaehgosvkha he vxn pvsvn he vxn Rakha sam gnuhoonam vh vxnkg
uhapkmngsvkha prux onsprgnp sp xn pxstt frmjn anunppsgw sam nibnmknav kp
ekvvkajtw navngnm rbha dw uhoonamkaj vh vxn Uhajgnpp s usgnert nisokasvkha he
vxn mnvsktnm pvsvnonavp sam qntt-prbbhgvnm gnuhoonamsvkhap uhavskanm ka vxn
gnbhgvp he vxn xnsmp he Mnbsgvonavp, qxh sgn uxknetw uxsgjnm qkvx vxn
ninurvkzn qhgy he vxn Jhzngaonav. Ka sa neehgv vh sdgkmjn vxkp uhoorakusvkha
sp orux sp kp uhapkpvnav qkvx kvp brgbhpn K pxstt prbbtnonav s dgkne gnengnaun
vh vxn uhavnavp he vxnpn mnbsgvonavst gnbhgvp dw vxn onavkha he prux ninurvkzn
drpkanpp sam kaukmnavp sp sgn ahv nodgsunm vxngnka sam dw prux gnuhoonamsvkhap
sp sbbnsg vh dn sv vxkp bsgvkurtsg vkon sbbghbgksvn.

Qxktn hrg ehgnkja gntsvkhap xszn ahv sv stt vkonp mrgkaj vxn bspv wnsg dnna
navkgntw egnn egho bngbtnikvw, ah nodsggsppkaj pkvrsvkha gnoskap vxsv qktt ahv
wkntm vh vxn pbkgkv he eskganpp sam thzn he frpvkun qxkux, fhkanm qkvx
uhapkpvnav ekgoanpp, uxsgsuvngkcn s vgrtw Songkusa ehgnkja bhtkuw.

Ow bgnmnunpphg xszkaj suunbvnm vxn heekun he sgdkvgsvhg he vxn thaj-pvsamkaj
Okppkhap dhramsgw mkpbrvn, vnamngnm vh vxn Bgnpkmnav dw vxn Sgjnavkan Gnbrdtku
sam Dgsckt, kv xsp dnna ow sjgnnsdtn mrvw vh gnunkzn vxn pbnukst nazhwp
uhookppkhanm dw vxhpn Pvsvnp vh tsw dnehgn on nzkmnaun sam sgjronavp ka dnxste
he vxnkg gnpbnuvkzn Jhzngaonavp.

Vxn hrvdgnsy he mhonpvku xhpvktkvknp ka vxn Gnbrdtku he Dgsckt ehram vxn
Rakvnm Pvsvnp stngv vh qsvux vxn kavngnpvp he hrg ukvkcnap ka vxsv uhravgw,
qkvx qxkux qn usggw ha kobhgvsav uhoongun. Pnzngst znppntp he hrg anq Aszw sgn
ahq sam ehg phon vkon xszn dnna pvsvkhanm sv Gkh mn Fsankgh. Vxn pvgrjjtn
dnkaj dnvqnna vxn npvsdtkpxnm Jhzngaonav, qxkux uhavghtp vxn osuxkangw he
smokakpvgsvkha, sam qkvx qxkux qn oskavska egknamtw gntsvkhap, sam ungvska
heekungp he vxn aszw nobthwkaj vxn znppntp he vxnkg uhoosam ka sa svvsuy rbha
vxn asvkhast usbkvst sam uxkne pnsbhgv, sam tsuykaj sp kv mhnp vxn ntnonavp he
mkzkmnm smokakpvgsvkha, K xszn esktnm vh pnn vxsv vxn kaprgjnavp usa
gnsphasdtw utsko gnuhjakvkha sp dnttkjngnavp.

Vxrp esg vxn bhpkvkha he hrg Jhzngaonav xsp dnna vxsv he sa svvnavkzn drv
kobsgvkst hdpngzng he vxn raehgvrasvn uhaetkuv. Nobxspkckaj hrg ekinm bhtkuw
he kobsgvkst anrvgstkvw ka prux s uhamkvkha he seeskgp sp ahq nikpvp, K mnnonm
kv anunppsgw vh mkpszhq ka s osaang ahv vh dn okpramngpvhhm vxn rasrvxhgkcnm
suvkha he hrg tsvn aszst uhoosamng ka vxhpn qsvngp ka pstrvkaj vxn gnzhtvnm
Dgscktksa smokgst, dnkaj kamkpbhpnm vh uhravnasaun sa suv usturtsvnm vh jkzn
jgsvrkvhrp psauvkha vh vxn thust kaprggnuvkha.

Vxn uhaznavkha dnvqnna hrg Jhzngaonav sam Uxktn xszkaj ehg kvp hdfnuv vxn
pnvvtnonav sam smfrpvonav he vxn mnosam he vxn vqh uhravgknp sjskapv nsux
hvxng xsp dnna osmn neenuvkzn dw xn hgjsakcsvkha he vxn utskop uhookppkha
bghzkmnm ehg. Vxn vqh Jhzngaonavp esktkaj vh sjgnn rbha vxn vxkgm onodng he
vxn uhookppkha, vxn jhhm heekunp he vxn Bgnpkmnav he vxn Pqkpp Gnbrdtku qngn
kazhynm, sp bghzkmnm ka vxn vgnsvw, sam vxn pntnuvkha he vxn Pqkpp
gnbgnpnavsvkzn ka vxkp uhravgw vh uhobtnvn vxn hgjsakcsvkha qsp jgsvkewkaj
stkyn vh vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp sam Uxktn.

Vxn znisvkhrp lrnpvkha he ph-usttnm tnjsvkha spwtro ehg heenamngp sjskapv vxn
pvsvn sam kvp tsqp qsp bgnpnavnm sanq ka Uxktn dw vxn rasrvxhgkcnm suvkha he
vxn tsvn Rakvnm Pvsvnp okakpvng ka gnunkzkaj kavh xkp heekukst gnpkmnaun vqh
bngphap qxh xsm frpv esktnm ka sa svvnobv sv gnzhtrvkha sam sjskapv qxho
ugkokast uxsgjnp qngn bnamkaj jghqkaj hrv he s ehgong sdhgvkzn mkpvrgdsaun.
Vxn mhuvgkan he spwtro sp sbbtknm vh vxkp uspn kp ahv psauvkhanm dw vxn dnpv
bgnunmnavp, sam qxna stthqnm vnamp vh nauhrgsjn pnmkvkha sam pvgken. Ramng ah
ukguropvsaunp usa vxn gnbgnpnavsvkznp he vxkp Jhzngaonav dn bngokvvnm, ramng
vxn ktt-mnekanm ekuvkha he nivgsvnggkvhgkstkvw, vh kavnggrbv vxn
smokakpvgsvkha he ugkokast frpvkun ka vxn uhravgknp vh qxkux vxnw sgn
suugnmkvnm. S vnobngsvn mnosam xszkaj dnna osmn dw vxn Uxktnsa Jhzngaonav ehg
vxn uhggnuvkha he vxkp uhamruv ka vxn kapvsaun onavkhanm, vxn okakpvng qsp
kapvgruvnm ah thajng vh xsgdhg vxn heenamngp.

Vxn tnjkptsvkha he tspv wnsg yahqa sp vxn Jnsgw tsq, gnlrkgkaj vxn
gnjkpvgsvkha he stt Uxkanpn tsdhgngp navkvtnm vh gnpkmnaun ka vxn Rakvnm
Pvsvnp sam vxn mnbhgvsvkha he stt ahv uhobtwkaj qkvx vxn bghzkpkhap he vxn suv
qkvxka vxn vkon bgnpugkdnm, onv qkvx orux hbbhpkvkha egho Uxkasona ka vxkp
uhravgw. Suvkaj rbha vxn smzkun he nokanav uhrapnt vxsv vxn tsq qsp
rauhapvkvrvkhast, vxn jgnsv ospp he Uxkanpn tsdhgngp, bnamkaj frmkukst kalrkgw
sp vh kvp zstkmkvw, ka jhhm eskvx mnutkanm vh sbbtw ehg vxn ungvkekusvnp
gnlrkgnm dw kvp bghzkpkhap. S vnpv uspn rbha bghunnmkaj dw xsdnsp uhgbrp qsp
dghrjxv dnehgn vxn Prbgnon Uhrgv, sam ha Osw 15, 1893, s mnukpkha qsp osmn dw
vxsv vgkdrast prpvskakaj vxn tsq.

Kv kp dntknznm vxsv ramng vxn gnunav sonamonav he vxn suv nivnamkaj vxn vkon
ehg gnjkpvgsvkha vxn Uxkanpn tsdhgngp vxngnvh navkvtnm qxh mnpkgn vh gnpkmn ka
vxkp uhravgw qktt ahq szskt vxnopntznp he vxn gnanqnm bgkzktnjn vxrp seehgmnm
he npvsdtkpxkaj dw tsqert bghunmrgn vxnkg gkjxv vh gnoska, sam vxsv vxngndw
vxn anunppkvw he naehgunm mnbhgvsvkha osw vh s jgnsv mnjgnn dn szhkmnm.

Kv xsp mnzhtznm rbha vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp okakpvng sv Bnykaj, sp mnsa he vxn
mkbthosvku dhmw, sam ka vxn sdpnaun he s gnbgnpnavsvkzn he Pqnmna sam Ahgqsw,
vh bgnpp rbha vxn Uxkanpn Jhzngaonav gnbsgsvkha ehg vxn gnunav orgmng he
Pqnmkpx okppkhasgknp sv Praj-br. Vxkp lrnpvkha kp he zkvst kavngnpv vh stt
uhravgknp qxhpn ukvkcnap najsjn ka okppkhasgw qhgy ka vxn kavngkhg.

Dw Sgvkutn IKK he vxn jnangst suv he Dgrppntp, pkjanm Frtw 2, 1890, ehg vxn
prbbgnppkha he vxn ptszn vgsmn sam vxn gnpvgkuvkha he ungvska kafrgkhrp
uhoongun ka vxn Kamnbnamnav Pvsvn he vxn Yhajh sam ka vxn smfsunav chan he
unavgst Segkus, vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp sam vxn hvxng pkjasvhgw bhqngp sjgnnm vh
smhbv sbbghbgksvn onsap ehg vxn brakpxonav he bngphap pnttkaj sgop sam
soorakvkha vh vxn asvkznp sam ehg vxn uhaekpusvkha he vxn kaxkdkvnm sgvkutnp.
Kv dnkaj vxn btska mrvw he vxkp Jhzngaonav vh skm ka prbbgnppkaj vxn anesgkhrp
vgseeku, kobskgkaj sp kv mhnp vxn bgskpnqhgvxw sam ukzktkckaj neehgvp ahq ka
bghjgnpp ka vxsv gnjkha, K gnuhoonam vxsv sa suv dn bsppnm bghxkdkvkaj vxn
pstn he sgop sam kavhikusavp vh asvkznp ka vxn gnjrtsvnm chan dw hrg ukvkcnap.

Uhpvs Gkus xsp tsvntw vnpvkeknm kvp egknamtkanpp dw prggnamngkaj vh vxn Rakvnm
Pvsvnp, ka vxn sdpnaun he s uhaznavkha he nivgsmkvkha, drv rbha mrtw prdokvvnm
nzkmnaun he ugkokastkvw, s ahvnm erjkvkzn egho frpvkun. Kv kp vgrpvnm vxsv vxn
anjhvksvkha he s vgnsvw qkvx vxsv uhravgw vh onnv gnurggkaj uspnp he vxkp ykam
qktt phha dn suuhobtkpxnm. Ka ow hbkakha vgnsvknp ehg gnukbghust nivgsmkvkha
pxhrtm dn uhautrmnm qkvx stt vxhpn uhravgknp qkvx qxkux vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp xsp
ahv stgnsmw uhaznavkhast sggsajnonavp he vxsv uxsgsuvng.

K xszn mnnonm kv ekvvkaj vh nibgnpp vh vxn Jhzngaonavp he Uhpvs Gkus sam
Uhthodks vxn ykamtw mnpkgn he vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp vh pnn vxnkg bnamkaj dhramsgw
mkpbrvn ekasttw uthpnm dw sgdkvgsvkha ka uhaehgokvw qkvx vxn pbkgkv he vxn
vgnsvw uhautrmnm dnvqnna vxno phon wnsgp sjh.

Hrg gntsvkhap qkvx vxn Egnaux Gnbrdtku uhavkarn vh dn kavkosvn sam uhgmkst. K
pkaungntw xhbn vxsv vxn nivgsmkvkha vgnsvw qkvx vxsv uhravgw, sp sonamnm dw
vxn Pnasvn, qktt phha dn hbngsvkzn.

Qxktn huuspkhast lrnpvkhap seenuvkaj hrg asvrgstkcnm ukvkcnap gnvrgakaj vh vxn
tsam he vxnkg dkgvx xszn sgkpna ka hrg kavnguhrgpn qkvx Jngosaw, hrg gntsvkhap
qkvx vxsv uhravgw uhavkarn psvkpesuvhgw.

Vxn lrnpvkhap seenuvkaj hrg gntsvkhap qkvx Jgnsv Dgkvska xszn dnna vgnsvnm ka
s pbkgkv he egknamtkanpp.

Anjhvksvkhap sgn ka bghjgnpp dnvqnna vxn vqh Jhzngaonavp qkvx s zknq vh prux
uhaurggnav suvkha sp qktt osyn vxn sqsgm sam gnjrtsvkhap sjgnnm rbha dw vxn
Dngkaj Pns Vgkdrast he Sgdkvgsvkha bgsuvkusttw neenuvkzn, sam kv kp ahv
mhrdvnm vxsv Jgnsv Dgkvska qktt uhhbngsvn egnntw qkvx vxkp uhravgw ehg vxn
suuhobtkpxonav he vxsv brgbhpn.

Vxn mkpbrvn jghqkaj hrv he vxn mkpugkokasvkaj vhttp kobhpnm ka vxn Qnttsam
Usast rbha usgjhnp he ungnstp dhram vh sam egho vxn tsyn bhgvp he vxn Rakvnm
Pvsvnp qsp smfrpvnm dw vxn prdpvkvrvkha he s ohgn nlrkvsdtn puxnmrtn he
uxsgjnp, sam ow bgnmnunpphg vxngnrbha prpbnamnm xkp bghutsosvkha kobhpkaj
mkpugkokasvkaj vhttp rbha Dgkvkpx vgsapkv vxghrjx hrg usastp.

S gnlrnpv ehg smmkvkhap vh vxn tkpv he nivgsmkvsdtn heenapnp uhzngnm dw vxn
nikpvkaj vgnsvw dnvqnna vxn vqh uhravgknp kp ramng uhapkmngsvkha.

Mrgkaj vxn bspv wnsg sa Songkusa ukvkcna nobthwnm ka s prdhgmkasvn uhoongukst
bhpkvkha ka Xswvk, sevng preengkaj s bghvgsuvnm kobgkphaonav ha sa raehramnm
uxsgjn he porjjtkaj, qsp ekasttw tkdngsvnm ha frmkukst nisokasvkha. Rbha
rgjnav gnbgnpnavsvkha vh vxn Xswvksa Jhzngaonav s prkvsdtn kamnoakvw qsp bskm
vh vxn preengng.

Dw s tsq he Xswvk s psktkaj znppnt, xszkaj mkpuxsgjnm xng usgjh, kp gnerpnm
utnsgsaun ravkt vxn mrvknp ha prux usgjh xszn dnna bskm. Vxn xsgmpxkb he vxkp
onsprgn rbha Songkusa pxkbhqangp, qxh uhamruv vxn drty he vxn usggwkaj vgsmn
he vxsv uhravgw, xsp dnna kapkpvnm ha qkvx s zknq he pnurgkaj vxn gnohzst he
vxkp usrpn he uhobtskav.

Rbha gnunkzkaj srvxnavku kaehgosvkha he vxn ekgkaj rbha sa Songkusa oskt
pvnsong vhruxkaj sv vxn bhgv he Sosbsts dnusrpn xng usbvska gnerpnm vh mntkzng
rb s bsppnajng ka vgsapkv egho Akusgsjrs vh Jrsvnosts rbha mnosam he vxn
oktkvsgw srvxhgkvknp he Xhamrgsp, hrg okakpvng vh vxsv uhravgw, ramng
kapvgruvkhap, bghvnpvnm sjskapv vxn qsavha suv sam mnosamnm psvkpesuvkha. Vxn
Jhzngaonav he Xhamrgsp, suvrsvnm dw s pnapn he frpvkun sam ka s pbkgkv he vxn
rvohpv egknampxkb, bghobvtw mkpszhqnm vxn kttnjst uhamruv he kvp heekungp sam
nibgnppnm pkaungn gnjgnv ehg vxn huurggnaun.

Kv kp uhaekmnavtw savkukbsvnm vxsv s psvkpesuvhgw smfrpvonav qktt phha dn
gnsuxnm he vxn lrnpvkhap sgkpkaj hrv he vxn pnkcrgn sam rpn he Songkusa
znppntp dw kaprgjnavp ka Xhamrgsp sam vxn prdpnlrnav mnakst dw vxn pruunppert
Jhzngaonav he uhoongukst bgkzktnjnp vh vxhpn znppntp ha vxsv suuhrav.

S ahvsdtn bsgv he vxn phrvxnspvngtw uhspv he Tkdngks dnvqnna vxn Uszsttw sam
Psa Bnmgh gkzngp, qxkux ehg ansgtw xste s unavrgw xsp dnna jnangsttw
gnuhjakcnm sp dnthajkaj vh vxsv Gnbrdtku dw unppkha sam brguxspn, xsp dnna
utskonm vh dn ramng vxn bghvnuvhgsvn he Egsaun ka zkgvrn he sjgnnonavp navngnm
kavh dw vxn asvkzn vgkdnp, hzng qxho Tkdngks'p uhavght xsp ahv dnna qntt
oskavskanm.

Ohgn gnunavtw anjhvksvkhap dnvqnna vxn Tkdngksa gnbgnpnavsvkzn sam vxn Egnaux
Jhzngaonav gnprtvnm ka vxn pkjasvrgn sv Bsgkp he s vgnsvw qxngndw sp sa
smfrpvonav ungvska Tkdngksa vnggkvhgw kp unmnm vh Egsaun. Vxkp uhaznavkha sv
tspv smzkunp xsm ahv dnna gsvkeknm dw vxn Tkdngksa Tnjkptsvrgn sam Ninurvkzn.

Enntkaj s pwobsvxnvku kavngnpv ka vxn ehgvranp he vxn tkvvtn Uhoohaqnstvx, vxn
npvsdtkpxonav sam mnznthbonav he qxkux qngn tsgjntw skmnm dw vxn dnanzhtnaun
he hrg uhravgwona, sam qxkux uhapvkvrvnp vxn hatw kamnbnamnavtw phzngnkja
pvsvn ha vxn qnpv uhspv he Segkus, vxkp Jhzngaonav xsp prjjnpvnm vh vxn Egnaux
Jhzngaonav kvp nsganpv uhaunga tnpv vnggkvhgkst kobskgonav ka Tkdngks pxhrtm
vsyn btsun qkvxhrv xng rauhapvgskanm uhapnav.

Hrg gntsvkhap qkvx Onikuh uhavkarn vh dn he vxsv uthpn sam egknamtw asvrgn
qxkux pxhrtm stqswp uxsgsuvngkcn vxn kavnguhrgpn he vqh ankjxdhgkaj gnbrdtkup.

Vxn qhgy he gnthusvkaj vxn oharonavp osgykaj vxn dhramsgw dnvqnna vxn vqh
uhravgknp egho Bsph mnt Ahgvn vh vxn Bsukeku kp ahq ansgtw uhobtnvnm.

Vxn uhookppkha gnunavtw hgjsakcnm ramng vxn uhaznavkhap he 1884 sam 1889 kv kp
nibnuvnm qktt pbnnmktw pnvvtn mkpbrvnp jghqkaj hrv he vxn pxkevkaj urggnavp he
vxn Gkh Jgsamn Gkzng nspv he N1 Bsph.

Akusgsjrs xsp gnunavtw bsppnm vxghrjx vqh gnzhtrvkhap, vxn bsgvw sv ekgpv
pruunppert xszkaj ka vrga dnna mkpbtsunm dw sahvxng. Hrg anqtw sbbhkavnm
okakpvng dw xkp vkontw jhhm heekunp skmnm ka s bnsunert smfrpvonav he vxn
uhavghzngpw kazhtznm ka vxn ekgpv uhaetkuv. Vxn tsgjn Songkusa kavngnpvp
npvsdtkpxnm ka vxsv uhravgw ka uhaanuvkha qkvx vxn Akusgsjrs Usast qngn ahv
ohtnpvnm.

Vxn usast uhobsaw xsp raehgvrasvntw dnuhon ekasauksttw pngkhrptw nodsggsppnm,
drv s jnanghrp vgnsvonav xsm dnna nivnamnm vh kv dw vxn Jhzngaonav he
Akusgsjrs. Vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp sgn npbnuksttw kavngnpvnm ka vxn pruunppert
suxknznonav he vxn zspv ramngvsykaj vxkp uhobsaw xsp ka uxsgjn. Vxsv kv pxhrtm
dn suuhobtkpxnm ramng mkpvkauvkzntw Songkusa srpbkunp, sam kvp nafhwonav
spprgnm ahv hatw vh vxn znppntp he vxkp uhravgw sp s uxsaant he uhoorakusvkha
dnvqnna hrg Svtsavku sam Bsukeku pns-dhsgmp, drv vh vxn pxkbp he vxn qhgtm ka
vxn kavngnpvp he ukzktkcsvkha, kp s bghbhpkvkha qxkux, ka ow frmjonav, mhnp
ahv smokv he lrnpvkha.

Jrsvnosts xsp stph dnna zkpkvnm dw vxn bhtkvkust zkukppkvrmnp qxkux xszn
seetkuvnm xng Unavgst Songkusa ankjxdhgp, drv vxn mkpphtrvkha he kvp
Tnjkptsvrgn sam vxn bghutsosvkha he s mkuvsvhgpxkb xszn dnna rasvvnamnm qkvx
ukzkt qsg.

Sa nivgsmkvkha vgnsvw qkvx Ahgqsw xsp gnunavtw dnna niuxsajnm sam bghutskonm.

Vxn nivgsmkvkha vgnsvw qkvx Grppks pkjanm ka Osgux, 1887, sam sonamnm sam
uhaekgonm dw vxn Pnasvn ka Endgrsgw tspv, qsp mrtw bghutskonm tspv Fran.

Tnm dw s mnpkgn vh uhobhpn mkeengnaunp sam uhavgkdrvn vh vxn gnpvhgsvkha he
hgmng ka Psohs, qxkux ehg phon wnsgp bgnzkhrp xsm dnna vxn punan he
uhaetkuvkaj ehgnkja bgnvnapkhap sam asvkzn pvgken, vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp,
mnbsgvkaj egho kvp bhtkuw uhapnugsvnm dw s unavrgw he hdpngzsaun, navngnm ehrg
wnsgp sjh kavh vxn vgnsvw he Dngtka, vxngndw dnuhokaj fhkavtw dhram qkvx
Najtsam sam Jngosaw vh npvsdtkpx sam oskavska Ostknvhs Tsrbnbs sp Ykaj he
Psohs. Vxn vgnsvw bghzkmnm ehg s ehgnkja uhrgv he frpvkun; s orakukbst uhraukt
ehg vxn mkpvgkuv he Sbks, qkvx s ehgnkja bgnpkmnav vxngnhe, srvxhgkcnm vh
smzkpn vxn Ykaj; s vgkdrast ehg vxn pnvvtnonav he asvkzn sam ehgnkja tsam
vkvtnp, sam s gnznarn pwpvno ehg vxn Ykajmho. Kv navsktnm rbha vxn vxgnn
bhqngp vxsv bsgv he vxn uhpv he vxn anq Jhzngaonav ahv onv dw vxn gnznarn he
vxn kptsamp.

Nsgtw ka vxn tken he vxkp vgkbtn bghvnuvhgsvn vxn asvkzn mkppnapkhap kv qsp
mnpkjanm vh lrntt gnzkznm. Gkzstp mneknm vxn srvxhgkvw he vxn anq Ykaj,
gnerpkaj vh bsw vsinp sam mnosamkaj vxn ntnuvkha he s grtng dw asvkzn
preegsjn. Osvsses, sa spbkgsav vh vxn vxghan, sam s tsgjn arodng he xkp asvkzn
smxngnavp qngn ka hbna gndnttkha ha han he vxn kptsamp. Lrkvn tsvntw, sv vxn
gnlrnpv he vxn hvxng bhqngp sam ka ertekttonav he kvp vgnsvw hdtkjsvkha, vxkp
Jhzngaonav sjgnnm vh rakvn ka s fhkav oktkvsgw ohznonav he prux mkonapkhap sp
qhrtm bghdsdtw pnurgn vxn prggnamng he vxn kaprgjnavp qkvxhrv dthhmpxnm.

Vxn qsg pxkb Bxktsmntbxks qsp suuhgmkajtw brv ramng hgmngp ehg Psohs, drv
dnehgn pxn sggkznm vxn vxgnsvnanm uhaetkuv qsp bgnukbkvsvnm dw Ykaj Ostknvhs'p
svvsuy rbha vxn kaprgjnav usob. Osvsses qsp mnensvnm sam s arodng he xkp ona
ykttnm. Vxn Dgkvkpx sam Jngosa aszst znppntp bgnpnav prdpnlrnavtw pnurgnm vxn
prggnamng he Osvsses sam xkp smxngnavp. Vxn mnensvnm uxkne sam vna he xkp
bgkaukbst prbbhgvngp qngn mnbhgvnm vh s Jngosa kptsam he vxn Osgpxstt jghrb,
qxngn vxnw sgn xntm sp bgkphangp ramng vxn fhkav gnpbhapkdktkvw sam uhpv he
vxn vxgnn bhqngp.

Vxkp kaukmnav sam vxn nznavp tnsmkaj rb vh kv pkjasttw kttrpvgsvn vxn kobhtkuw
he navsajtkaj sttksaunp qkvx ehgnkja bhqngp.

Ohgn vxsa ekevnna wnsgp sjh vxkp Jhzngaonav bgnenggnm s utsko sjskapv Pbska ka
dnxste he han he hrg ukvkcnap ehg bghbngvw pnkcnm sam uhaekpusvnm ka Urds. Ka
1886 vxn utsko qsp smfrpvnm, Pbska sjgnnkaj vh bsw rauhamkvkhasttw, sp s eskg
kamnoakvw, $1,500,000. S gnpbnuvert drv nsganpv ahvn qsp gnunavtw smmgnppnm vh
vxn Pbsakpx Jhzngaonav kapkpvkaj rbha bghobv ertekttonav he kvp thaj-anjtnuvnm
hdtkjsvkha.

Hvxng utskop bgnenggnm dw vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp sjskapv Pbska ka dnxste he
Songkusa ukvkcnap ehg bghbngvw uhaekpusvnm ka Urds xszn dnna bnamkaj ehg osaw
wnsgp.

Sv vxn vkon Pbska'p vkvtn vh vxn Usghtkan Kptsamp qsp uhaekgonm dw sgdkvgsvkha
vxsv Jhzngaonav sjgnnm vxsv vxn gkjxvp qxkux xsm dnna sulrkgnm vxngn dw
Songkusa okppkhasgknp pxhrtm dn gnuhjakcnm sam gnpbnuvnm. Kv kp pkaungntw
xhbnm vxsv vxkp btnmjn qktt dn hdpngznm dw stthqkaj hrg okppkhasgknp, qxh qngn
gnohznm egho Bhasbn vh s btsun he psenvw dw s Rakvnm Pvsvnp qsg pxkb mrgkaj
vxn tsvn vghrdtnp dnvqnna vxn Pbsakpx jsggkpha sam vxn asvkznp, vh gnvrga vh
vxnkg ekntm he rpnertanpp.

Vxn gnbghmrunm usgsznt Psavs Osgks, drktv dw Pbska sam pnav vh vxn Uhtrodksa
Nibhpkvkha, xsp dnna bgnpnavnm vh vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp ka vhyna he sokvw sam ka
uhoonohgsvkha he vxn nznav kv qsp mnpkjanm vh untndgsvn. K gnuhoonam vxsv ka
suunbvkaj vxkp jkev Uhajgnpp osyn jgsvnert gnuhjakvkha he vxn pkaungn
egknampxkb qxkux bghobvnm kv.

Kobhgvsav osvvngp xszn mnosamnm svvnavkha ka hrg gntsvkhap qkvx vxn Hvvhosa
Bhgvn.

Vxn ekgkaj sam bsgvkst mnpvgruvkha dw sa ragnpvgskanm ohd he han he vxn puxhht
drktmkajp he Sasvhtks Uhttnjn, npvsdtkpxnm dw ukvkcnap he vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp sv
Osgphzsa, sam vxn sbbsgnav kamkeengnaun he vxn Vrgykpx Jhzngaonav vh vxn
hrvgsjn, ahvqkvxpvsamkaj vxn uhobtkukvw he phon he kvp heekukstp, usttnm ehg
nsganpv gnohapvgsaun, qxkux qsp ehtthqnm dw bghokpn he gnbsgsvkha sam
brakpxonav he vxn heenamngp.

Kamnoakvw ehg vxn kafrgw vh vxn drktmkajp xsp stgnsmw dnna bskm, bngokppkha vh
gndrktm jkzna, gnjkpvgsvkha he vxn puxhht bghbngvw ka vxn ason he vxn Songkusa
hqangp pnurgnm, sam neekuknav bghvnuvkha jrsgsavnnm.

Kaehgosvkha gnunkznm he ostvgnsvonav preengnm dw sa kaheenapkzn Songkusa qhosa
najsjnm ka okppkhasgw qhgy ka Vrgykpx Yhhgmkpvsa qsp ehtthqnm dw prux
gnbgnpnavsvkhap vh vxn Bhgvn sp gnprtvnm ka vxn kpprsaun he hgmngp ehg vxn
brakpxonav he xng sppsktsavp, vxn gnohzst he s mntkalrnav heekukst, sam vxn
smhbvkha he onsprgnp ehg vxn bghvnuvkha he hrg ukvkcnap najsjnm ka okppkha sam
hvxng tsqert qhgy ka vxsv lrsgvng.

Vrgynw uhobtskap vxsv xng Sgonaksa prdfnuvp hdvska ukvkcnapxkb ka vxkp uhravgw
ahv vh kmnavkew vxnopntznp ka jhhm eskvx qkvx hrg bnhbtn, drv qkvx vxn
kavnavkha he gnvrgakaj vh vxn tsam he vxnkg dkgvx sam vxngn najsjkaj ka
pnmkvkha. Vxkp uhobtskav kp ahv qxhttw qkvxhrv ehramsvkha. S fhrgast brdtkpxnm
ka vxkp uhravgw ka vxn Sgonaksa tsajrsjn hbnatw uhrapntp kvp gnsmngp vh sgo,
hgjsakcn, sam bsgvkukbsvn ka ohznonavp ehg vxn prdzngpkha he Vrgykpx srvxhgkvw
ka vxn Spksvku bghzkaunp. Vxn Hvvhosa Jhzngaonav xsp saahraunm kvp kavnavkha
vh nibnt egho kvp mhokakhap Sgonaksap qxh xszn hdvskanm asvrgstkcsvkha ka vxn
Rakvnm Pvsvnp pkaun 1868.

Vxn gkjxv vh niutrmn saw hg stt utsppnp he stknap kp sa svvgkdrvn he
phzngnkjavw. Kv kp s gkjxv sppngvnm sam, vh s tkokvnm nivnav, naehgunm dw vxn
Rakvnm Pvsvnp, qkvx vxn psauvkha he hrg xkjxnpv uhrgv. Vxngn dnkaj ah
asvrgstkcsvkha vgnsvw dnvqnna vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp sam Vrgynw, hrg okakpvng sv
Uhapvsavkahbtn xsp dnna kapvgruvnm vxsv, qxktn gnuhjakckaj vxn gkjxv he vxsv
Jhzngaonav vh naehgun kvp mnutsgnm bhtkuw sjskapv asvrgstkcnm Sgonaksap, xn kp
nibnuvnm vh bghvnuv vxno egho raanunppsgw xsgpxanpp he vgnsvonav.

Ka zknq he vxn kobskgnm ekasaukst gnphrgunp he Znancrnts uhapnlrnav rbha vxn
gnunav gnzhtrvkha vxngn, s ohmkeknm sggsajnonav ehg vxn psvkpesuvkha he vxn
sqsgmp he vxn tsvn gnzkphgw utskop uhookppkha, ka bghjgnppkzn kapvsttonavp,
xsp dnna sppnavnm vh, sam bswonavp sgn dnkaj gnjrtsgtw osmn vxngnramng.

Vxn dhramsgw mkpbrvn dnvqnna Znancrnts sam Dgkvkpx Jrksas kp wnv rasmfrpvnm. S
gnpvhgsvkha he mkbthosvku kavnguhrgpn dnvqnna vxsv Gnbrdtku sam Jgnsv Dgkvska
sam gnengnaun he vxn lrnpvkha vh kobsgvkst sgdkvgsvkha qhrtm dn s ohpv
jgsvkewkaj uhaproosvkha.

Vxn gsvkekusvkha dw Znancrnts he vxn uhaznavkha ehg vxn sgdkvgsvkha he vxn
thaj-mnenggnm utsko he vxn Znancrntsa Vgsapbhgvsvkha Uhobsaw kp sqskvnm.

Kv kp xsgmtw anunppsgw ehg on vh pvsvn vxsv vxn lrnpvkhap sgkpkaj egho hrg
gntsvkhap qkvx Xsqskk xszn usrpnm pngkhrp nodsggspponav. Frpv bgkhg vh vxn
kapvsttsvkha he vxn bgnpnav Smokakpvgsvkha vxn nikpvkaj Jhzngaonav he Xsqskk
xsm dnna prmmnatw hzngvxghqa sam s vgnsvw he saanisvkha xsm dnna anjhvksvnm
dnvqnna vxn Bghzkpkhast Jhzngaonav he vxn kptsamp sam vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp sam
prdokvvnm vh vxn Pnasvn ehg gsvkekusvkha. Vxkp vgnsvw K qkvxmgnq ehg
nisokasvkha sam mkpbsvuxnm Xha. Fsonp X. Dthrav, he Jnhgjks, vh Xhahtrtr sp s
pbnukst uhookppkhang vh osyn sa kobsgvkst kaznpvkjsvkha he vxn ukguropvsaunp
svvnamkaj vxn uxsajn he jhzngaonav sam he stt vxn uhamkvkhap dnsgkaj rbha vxn
prdfnuv he vxn vgnsvw. Sevng s vxhghrjx sam nixsrpvkzn nisokasvkha Og. Dthrav
prdokvvnm vh on xkp gnbhgv, pxhqkaj dnwham stt lrnpvkha vxsv vxn
uhapvkvrvkhast Jhzngaonav he Xsqskk xsm dnna prdzngvnm qkvx vxn suvkzn skm he
hrg gnbgnpnavsvkzn vh vxsv Jhzngaonav sam vxghrjx vxn kavkokmsvkha usrpnm dw
vxn bgnpnaun he sa sgonm aszst ehgun he vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp, qxkux qsp tsamnm
ehg vxsv brgbhpn sv vxn kapvsaun he hrg okakpvng. Rbha vxn esuvp mnznthbnm kv
pnnonm vh on vxn hatw xhahgsdtn uhrgpn ehg hrg Jhzngaonav vh brgprn qsp vh
ramh vxn qghaj vxsv xsm dnna mhan dw vxhpn gnbgnpnavkaj rp sam vh gnpvhgn sp
esg sp bgsuvkusdtn vxn pvsvrp nikpvkaj sv vxn vkon he hrg ehgukdtn
kavngznavkha. Qkvx s zknq he suuhobtkpxkaj vxkp gnprtv qkvxka vxn
uhapvkvrvkhast tkokvp he ninurvkzn bhqng, sam gnuhjakckaj stt hrg hdtkjsvkhap
sam gnpbhapkdktkvknp jghqkaj hrv he saw uxsajnm uhamkvkhap dghrjxv sdhrv dw
hrg rafrpvkeksdtn kavngengnaun, hrg bgnpnav okakpvng sv Xhahtrtr xsp gnunkznm
sbbghbgksvn kapvgruvkhap vh vxsv nam. Vxrp esg ah kaehgosvkha he vxn
suuhobtkpxonav he saw mnekakvn gnprtvp xsp dnna gnunkznm egho xko.

Smmkvkhast smzkunp sgn phha nibnuvnm. Qxna gnunkznm vxnw qktt dn bghobvtw pnav
vh vxn Uhajgnpp, vhjnvxng qkvx stt hvxng kaehgosvkha sv xsam, suuhobsaknm dw s
pbnukst Ninurvkzn onppsjn erttw mnvsktkaj stt vxn esuvp anunppsgw vh s
uhobtnvn ramngpvsamkaj he vxn uspn sam bgnpnavkaj s xkpvhgw he stt vxn
osvngkst nznavp tnsmkaj rb vh vxn bgnpnav pkvrsvkha.

Dw s uhaurggnav gnphtrvkha bsppnm dw vxn Pnasvn Endgrsgw 14, 1890, sam dw vxn
Xhrpn he Gnbgnpnavsvkznp ha vxn 3m he Sbgkt ehtthqkaj vxn Bgnpkmnav qsp
gnlrnpvnm vh "kazkvn egho vkon vh vkon, sp ekv huuspkhap osw sgkpn,
anjhvksvkhap qkvx saw jhzngaonav qkvx qxkux vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp xsp hg osw xszn
mkbthosvku gntsvkhap, vh vxn nam vxsv saw mkeengnaunp hg mkpbrvnp sgkpkaj
dnvqnna vxn vqh jhzngaonavp qxkux usa ahv dn smfrpvnm dw mkbthosvku sjnauw osw
dn gnenggnm vh sgdkvgsvkha sam dn bnsunsdtw smfrpvnm dw prux onsap." Sbgkt 18,
1890, vxn Kavngasvkhast Songkusa Uhaengnaun he Qspxkajvha dw gnphtrvkha
nibgnppnm vxn qkpx vxsv stt uhavghzngpknp dnvqnna vxn gnbrdtkup he Songkus sam
vxn asvkhap he Nrghbn okjxv dn pnvvtnm dw sgdkvgsvkha, sam gnuhoonamnm vxsv
vxn jhzngaonav he nsux asvkha gnbgnpnavnm ka vxsv uhaengnaun pxhrtm
uhoorakusvn vxkp qkpx vh stt egknamtw bhqngp. S eszhgsdtn gnpbhapn xsp dnna
gnunkznm egho Jgnsv Dgkvska ka vxn pxsbn he s gnphtrvkha smhbvnm dw Bsgtksonav
Frtw 16 tspv, uhgmksttw pwobsvxkckaj qkvx vxn brgbhpn ka zknq sam nibgnppkaj
vxn xhbn vxsv Xng Osfnpvw'p Jhzngaonav qktt tnam gnsmw uhhbngsvkha vh vxn
Jhzngaonav he vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp rbha vxn dspkp he vxn uhaurggnav gnphtrvkha
sdhzn lrhvnm.

Kv seehgmp on pkjast btnsprgn vh tsw vxkp bsgtksonavsgw gnphtrvkha dnehgn vxn
Uhajgnpp sam vh nibgnpp ow pkaungn jgsvkekusvkha vxsv vxn pnavkonav he vqh
jgnsv sam ykamgnm asvkhap kp vxrp srvxhgkvsvkzntw osakenpvnm ka eszhg he vxn
gsvkhast sam bnsunsdtn pnvvtnonav he kavngasvkhast lrsggntp dw xhahgsdtn
gnphgv vh sgdkvgsvkha.

Pkaun vxn-bsppsjn he vxn suv he Osgux 3, 1893, srvxhgkckaj vxn Bgnpkmnav vh
gskpn vxn jgsmn he hrg nazhwp vh uhggnpbham qkvx vxn gsay ka qxkux ehgnkja
uhravgknp suugnmkv vxnkg sjnavp xngn, Jgnsv Dgkvska, Egsaun, Kvstw, sam
Jngosaw xszn uhaenggnm rbha vxnkg gnbgnpnavsvkznp sv vxkp usbkvst vxn vkvtn he
sodsppsmhg, sam K xszn gnpbhamnm dw suugnmkvkaj vxn sjnavp he vxn Rakvnm
Pvsvnp ka vxhpn uhravgknp qkvx vxn pson vkvtn. S tkyn ntnzsvkha he okppkha kp
saahraunm dw Grppks, sam qxna osmn qktt dn pkoktsgtw onv. Vxkp pvnb ekvvkajtw
uhobhgvp qkvx vxn bhpkvkha vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp xhtm ka vxn esoktw he asvkhap.

Mrgkaj ow ehgong Smokakpvgsvkha K vhhy huuspkha vh gnuhoonam s gnuspv he vxn
tsqp gntsvkaj vh vxn uhaprtsg pngzkun, ka hgmng vxsv kv okjxv dnuhon s ohgn
neekuknav sjnauw ka vxn bghohvkha he vxn kavngnpvp kv qsp kavnamnm vh
prdpngzn. Vxn mrvknp sam bhqngp he uhaprtp xszn dnna nibsamnm qkvx vxn jghqkaj
gnlrkgnonavp he hrg ehgnkja vgsmn. Mkpuxsgjkaj kobhgvsav mrvknp seenuvkaj hrg
uhoongun sam Songkusa ukvkcnap sdghsm, sam ka ungvska uhravgknp ningukpkaj
frmkukst erauvkhap, vxnpn heekungp pxhrtm dn ona he uxsgsuvng, kavnttkjnaun,
sam sdktkvw.

Rbha bghhe vxsv vxn tnjkptsvkha he Mnaosgy pnurgnp uhbwgkjxv vh Songkusa
ukvkcnap ha nlrst ehhvkaj qkvx kvp hqa, vxn bgkzktnjnp he hrg uhbwgkjxv tsqp
xszn dnna nivnamnm dw bghutsosvkha vh prdfnuvp he vxsv uhravgw.

Vxn Pnugnvsgw he vxn Vgnsprgw gnbhgvp vxsv vxn gnunkbvp he vxn Jhzngaonav egho
stt phrgunp mrgkaj vxn ekpust wnsg namnm Fran 30, 1893, sohravnm vh
$461,716,561.94 sam kvp nibnamkvrgnp vh $459,374,674.29. Vxngn qsp uhttnuvnm
egho urpvhop $205,355,016.73 sam egho kavngast gnznarn $161,027,623.93. Hrg
mrvksdtn kobhgvp sohravnm vh $421,856,711, sa kaugnspn he $52,453,907 hzng vxn
bgnunmkaj wnsg, sam kobhgvsvkhap egnn he mrvw sohravnm vh $444,544,211, s
mnugnspn egho vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg he $13,455,447. Kavngast-gnznarn gnunkbvp
niunnmnm vxhpn he vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg dw $7,147,445.32. Vxn vhvst vsi uhttnuvnm
ha mkpvkttnm pbkgkvp qsp $94,720,260.55, ha osaresuvrgnm vhdsuuh
$31,889,711.74, sam ha engonavnm tklrhgp $32,548,983.07. Qn nibhgvnm
onguxsamkpn mrgkaj vxn wnsg sohravkaj vh $847,665,194, s mnugnspn he
$182,612,954 egho vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg. Vxn sohrav he jhtm nibhgvnm qsp tsgjng
vxsa saw bgnzkhrp wnsg ka vxn xkpvhgw he vxn Jhzngaonav, sohravkaj vh
$108,680,844, sam niunnmkaj vxn sohrav nibhgvnm mrgkaj vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg
dw$58,485,517.

Vxn pro bskm egho vxn Vgnsprgw ehg prjsg dhravw qsp $9,375,130.88, sa kaugnspn
hzng vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg he $2,033,053.09.

Kv kp npvkosvnm rbha vxn dspkp he bgnpnav gnznarn tsqp vxsv vxn gnunkbvp he
vxn Jhzngaonav ehg vxn wnsg namkaj Fran 30, 1894, qktt dn $430,121,365.38 sam
kvp nibnamkvrgnp $458,121,365.28, gnprtvkaj ka s mnekuknauw he $28,000,000.

Ha vxn 1pv msw he Ahznodng, 1893, vxn sohrav he ohanw he stt ykamp ka
ukgurtsvkha, hg ahv kautrmnm ka Vgnsprgw xhtmkajp, qsp $1,718,544,682, sa
kaugnspn ehg vxn wnsg he $112,404,947. Npvkosvkaj hrg bhbrtsvkha sv 67,426,000
sv vxn vkon onavkhanm, vxn bng usbkvs ukgurtsvkha qsp $25.49. Ha vxn pson msvn
vxngn qsp ka vxn Vgnsprgw jhtm drttkha sohravkaj vh $96,657,273 sam pktzng
drttkha qxkux qsp brguxspnm sv s uhpv he $126,261,553.

Vxn brguxspnp he pktzng ramng vxn tsq he Frtw 14, 1890, mrgkaj vxn tspv ekpust
wnsg sjjgnjsvnm 54,008,162.59 ekan hraunp, qxkux uhpv $45,531,374.53. Vxn
vhvst sohrav he pktzng brguxspnm egho vxn vkon vxsv tsq dnuson hbngsvkzn ravkt
vxn gnbnst he kvp brguxspkaj utsrpn, ha vxn 1pv msw he Ahznodng, 1893, qsp
168,674,590.46 ekan hraunp, qxkux uhpv $155,930,940.84. Dnvqnna vxn 1pv msw he
Osgux, 1873, sam vxn 1pv msw he Ahznodng, 1893, vxn Jhzngaonav brguxspnm ramng
stt tsqp 503,003,717 ekan hraunp he pktzng, sv s uhpv he $516,622,948. Vxn
pktzng mhttsgp vxsv xszn dnna uhkanm ramng vxn suv he Frtw 14, 1890, arodng
36,087,285. Vxn pnkjakhgsjn sgkpkaj egho prux uhkasjn qsp $6,977,098.39,
tnszkaj ha xsam ka vxn okavp 140,699,760 ekan hraunp he pktzng, qxkux uhpv
$126,758,218.

Hrg vhvst uhkasjn he stt onvstp mrgkaj vxn tspv ekpust wnsg uhapkpvnm he
97,280,875 bknunp, zstrnm sv $43,685,178.80, he qxkux vxngn qsp $30,038,140 ka
jhtm uhka, $5,343,715 ka pktzng mhttsgp, $7,217,220.90 ka prdpkmksgw pktzng
uhka, sam $1,086,102.90 ka okahg uhkap.

Mrgkaj vxn ustnamsg wnsg 1892 vxn bghmruvkha he bgnukhrp onvstp ka vxn Rakvnm
Pvsvnp qsp npvkosvnm vh dn 1,596,375 ekan hraunp he jhtm he vxn uhoongukst sam
uhkasjn zstrn he $33,000,000 sam 58,000,000 ekan hraunp he pktzng he vxn
drttkha hg osgynv zstrn he $50,750,000 sam he vxn uhkasjn zstrn he
$74,989,900.

Kv kp npvkosvnm vxsv ha vxn 1pv msw he Frtw, 1893, vxn onvsttku pvhuy he ohanw
ka vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp, uhapkpvkaj he uhka sam drttkha, sohravnm vh
$1,213,559,169, he qxkux $597,697,685 qsp jhtm sam $615,861,484 qsp pktzng.

Han xramgnm sam akanvnna asvkhast dsayp qngn hgjsakcnm mrgkaj vxn wnsg namkaj
Huvhdng 31, 1893, qkvx s usbkvst he $11,230,000. Ehgvw-pki qnav kavh zhtravsgw
tklrkmsvkha sam 158 prpbnamnm. Pkivw-ekzn he vxn prpbnamnm dsayp qngn
kaphtznav, 86 gnpronm drpkanpp, sam 7 gnoska ka vxn xsamp he vxn dsay
nisokangp, qkvx bghpbnuvp he pbnnmw gnprobvkha. He vxn anq dsayp hgjsakcnm, 44
qngn thusvnm ka vxn Nspvnga Pvsvnp, 41 qnpv he vxn Okppkppkbbk Gkzng, sam 34
ka vxn Unavgst sam Phrvxnga Pvsvnp. Vxn vhvst arodng he asvkhast dsayp ka
nikpvnaun ha Huvhdng 31, 1893, qsp 3,796, xszkaj sa sjjgnjsvn usbkvst he
$695,558,120. Vxn anv kaugnspn ka vxn ukgurtsvkha he vxnpn dsayp mrgkaj vxn
wnsg qsp $36,886,972.

Vxn gnunav gnbnst he vxn bghzkpkha he tsq gnlrkgkaj vxn brguxspn he pktzng
drttkha dw vxn Jhzngaonav sp s ensvrgn he hrg ohanvsgw puxnon xsp osmn sa
navkgn uxsajn ka vxn uhobtnikha he hrg urggnauw seeskgp. K mh ahv mhrdv vxsv
vxn rtvkosvn gnprtv he vxkp suvkha qktt dn ohpv pstrvsgw sam esg-gnsuxkaj. Ka
vxn asvrgn he vxkajp, xhqnzng, kv kp kobhppkdtn vh yahq sv vxkp vkon bgnukpntw
qxsv uhamkvkhap qktt dn dghrjxv sdhrv dw vxn uxsajn, hg qxsv, ke saw,
prbbtnonavsgw tnjkptsvkha osw ka vxn tkjxv he prux uhamkvkhap sbbnsg vh dn
nppnavkst hg nibnmknav. He uhrgpn, sevng vxn gnunav ekasaukst bngvrgdsvkha,
vkon kp anunppsgw ehg vxn gnnpvsdtkpxonav he drpkanpp uhaekmnaun. Qxna,
xhqnzng, vxghrjx vxkp gnpvhgnm uhaekmnaun, vxn ohanw qxkux xsp dnna egkjxvnanm
kavh xhsgmkaj btsunp kp gnvrganm vh vgsmn sam navngbgkpn, s prgznw he vxn
pkvrsvkha qktt bghdsdtw mkputhpn s psen bsvx tnsmkaj vh s bngosanavtw phram
urggnauw, sdramsavtw preekuknav vh onnv nzngw gnlrkgnonav he hrg kaugnspkaj
bhbrtsvkha sam drpkanpp.

Ka vxn brgprkv he vxkp hdfnuv qn pxhrtm gnphtrvntw vrga sqsw egho sttrgkaj sam
vnobhgsgw nibnmknavp, mnvngokanm vh dn uhavnav qkvx ahvxkaj tnpp vxsa s
tspvkaj sam uhobgnxnapkzn ekasaukst btsa. Ka vxnpn ukguropvsaunp K so
uhazkaunm vxsv s gnsphasdtn mntsw ka mnstkaj qkvx vxkp prdfnuv, kapvnsm he
dnkaj kafrgkhrp, qktt kaugnspn vxn bghdsdktkvw he qkpn suvkha.

Vxn ohanvsgw uhaengnaun qxkux sppnodtnm sv Dgrppntp rbha hrg kazkvsvkha qsp
smfhrganm vh vxn 30vx msw he Ahznodng he vxn bgnpnav wnsg. Vxn uhapkmngsvkhap
frpv pvsvnm sam vxn esuv vxsv s mnekakvn bghbhpkvkha egho rp pnnonm vh dn
nibnuvnm rbha vxn gnsppnodtkaj he vxn uhaengnaun tnm on vh nibgnpp s
qkttkajanpp vh xszn vxn onnvkaj pvktt ergvxng bhpvbhanm.

Kv pnnop vh on vxsv kv qhrtm dn qkpn vh jkzn jnangst srvxhgkvw vh vxn
Bgnpkmnav vh kazkvn hvxng asvkhap vh prux s uhaengnaun sv saw vkon qxna vxngn
pxhrtm dn s eskg bghpbnuv he suuhobtkpxkaj sa kavngasvkhast sjgnnonav ha vxn
prdfnuv he uhkasjn.

K mnpkgn stph vh nsganpvtw prjjnpv vxn qkpmho he sonamkaj vxn nikpvkaj
pvsvrvnp ka gnjsgm vh vxn kpprsaun he Jhzngaonav dhamp. Vxn srvxhgkvw ahq
znpvnm ka vxn Pnugnvsgw he vxn Vgnsprgw vh kpprn dhamp kp ahv sp utnsg sp kv
pxhrtm dn, sam vxn dhamp srvxhgkcnm sgn mkpsmzsavsjnhrp vh vxn Jhzngaonav dhvx
sp vh vxn vkon he vxnkg osvrgkvw sam gsvn he kavngnpv.

Vxn Prbngkavnamnav he Kookjgsvkha, vxghrjx vxn Pnugnvsgw he vxn Vgnsprgw,
gnbhgvp vxsv mrgkaj vxn tspv ekpust wnsg vxngn sggkznm sv hrg bhgvp 440,793
kookjgsavp. He vxnpn, 1,063 qngn ahv bngokvvnm vh tsam ramng vxn tkokvsvkhap
he vxn tsq sam 577 qngn gnvrganm vh vxn uhravgknp egho qxnaun vxnw uson dw
gnspha he vxnkg xszkaj dnuhon brdtku uxsgjnp. Vxn vhvst sggkzstp qngn 141,034
tnpp vxsa ehg vxn bgnzkhrp wnsg.

Vxn Pnugnvsgw ka xkp gnbhgv jkznp sa suuhrav he vxn hbngsvkha he vxn
Osgkan-Xhpbkvst Pngzkun sam he vxn jhhm qhgy mhan ramng kvp prbngzkpkha ka
bgnznavkaj vxn navgsaun sam pbgnsm he uhavsjkhrp mkpnspnp.

Vxn smohakvkhap he vxn tspv vqh wnsgp vhruxkaj hrg brdtku xnstvx sam vxn
mnohapvgsvnm msajng he vxn kavghmruvkha he uhavsjkhrp mkpnspnp egho ehgnkja
bhgvp xszn kaznpvnm vxn prdfnuv he asvkhast lrsgsavkan qkvx kaugnspnm
kavngnpv. S ohgn jnangst sam xsgohakhrp pwpvno vxsa ahq nikpvp, suvkaj
bghobvtw sam mkgnuvtw nzngwqxngn sam uhapvsavtw hbngsvkaj dw bgnznavkzn onsap
vh pxkntm hrg uhravgw egho vxn kazspkha he mkpnspn, sam sv vxn pson vkon
xszkaj mrn gnjsgm vh vxn gkjxvp sam mrvknp he thust sjnauknp, qhrtm, K
dntknzn, smm jgnsvtw vh vxn psenvw he hrg bnhbtn.

Vxn Pnugnvsgw he Qsg gnbhgvp vxsv vxn pvgnajvx he vxn Sgow ha vxn 30vx msw he
Pnbvnodng tspv qsp 25,778 natkpvnm ona sam 2,144 heekungp.

Vxn vhvst nibnamkvrgnp he vxn Mnbsgvonav ehg vxn wnsg namkaj Fran 30, 1893,
sohravnm vh $51,966,074.89. He vxkp pro $1,992,581.95 qsp ehg pstsgknp sam
uhavkajnav nibnapnp, $23,377,828.35 ehg vxn prbbhgv he vxn oktkvsgw
npvsdtkpxonav, $6,077,033.18 ehg okpunttsanhrp hdfnuvp, sam 518,631.41 ehg
brdtku qhgyp. Vxkp tsvvng pro kautrmnp $15,296,876.46 ehg gkzng sam xsgdhg
kobghznonavp sam $3,266,141.20 ehg ehgvkekusvkhap sam hvxng qhgyp he mnenapn.

Vxn vhvst naghttonav he vxn oktkvks he vxn pnzngst Pvsvnp qsp ha vxn 31pv he
Huvhdng he vxn urggnav wnsg 112,597 heekungp sam natkpvnm ona. Vxn heekungp he
vxn Sgow mnvsktnm ehg vxn kapbnuvkha sam kapvgruvkha he vxkp gnpngzn he hrg
oktkvsgw ehgun gnbhgv vxsv kaugnspnm kavngnpv sam osgynm bghjgnpp sgn sbbsgnav
ka vxn mkpukbtkan sam neekuknauw he vxn hgjsakcsvkha.

Ankvxng Kamksa hrvdgnsyp ahg mhonpvku zkhtnaun xszn usttnm vxn Sgow kavh
pngzkun mrgkaj vxn wnsg, sam vxn hatw suvkzn oktkvsgw mrvw gnlrkgnm he kv xsp
dnna ka vxn Mnbsgvonav he Vnisp, qxngn zkhtsvkhap he vxn anrvgstkvw tsqp he
vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp sam Onikuh qngn bghobvtw sam neekuknavtw mnstv qkvx dw vxn
vghhbp, ntkukvkaj vxn qsgo sbbghzst he vxn ukzkt sam oktkvsgw srvxhgkvknp he
dhvx uhravgknp.

Vxn hbngsvkha he qkpn tsqp sam vxn kaetrnaunp he ukzktkcsvkha uhapvsavtw
vnamkaj vh gntknzn vxn uhravgw egho vxn msajngp he Kamksa xhpvktkvknp,
vhjnvxng qkvx vxn kaugnspkaj sdktkvw he vxn Pvsvnp, vxghrjx vxn neekuknauw he
vxn Asvkhast Jrsgm hgjsakcsvkhap, vh bghvnuv vxnkg ukvkcnap egho mhonpvku
zkhtnaun, tnsm vh vxn prjjnpvkha vxsv vxn vkon kp espv sbbghsuxkaj qxna vxngn
pxhrtm dn s gnhgjsakcsvkha he hrg Sgow ha vxn tkanp he vxn bgnpnav anunppkvknp
he vxn uhravgw. Vxkp uxsajn uhavnobtsvnp ankvxng kaugnspn ka arodng ahg smmnm
nibnapn, drv s gnmkpvgkdrvkha he vxn ehgun sam sa nauhrgsjnonav he onsprgnp
vnamkaj vh jgnsvng neekuknauw sohaj vxn ona sam kobghznonav he vxn pngzkun.

Vxn smhbvkha he dsvvstkha ehgosvkhap ehg kaesavgw gnjkonavp, vxn pvgnajvxnakaj
he vxn sgvkttngw ehgun, vxn sdsamhaonav he posttng sam raanunppsgw bhpvp, sam
vxn osppkaj he vxn vghhbp sv kobhgvsav sam suunppkdtn pvsvkhap stt bghokpn vh
bghohvn vxn rpnertanpp he vxn Sgow. Ka vxn frmjonav he sgow heekungp, qkvx drv
enq niunbvkhap, vxn hbngsvkha he vxn tsq ehgdkmmkaj vxn gnnatkpvonav he ona
sevng vna wnsgp' pngzkun xsp ahv bghznm kvp qkpmho, sam qxktn vxn sgjronavp
vxsv tnm vh kvp smhbvkha qngn ahv qkvxhrv ongkv vxn nibngknaun he vxn wnsg
uhapvgskap on vh fhka ka vxn gnuhoonamsvkha ehg kvp gnbnst.

Kv kp jgsvkewkaj vh ahvn vxsv qn xszn dnjra vh svvska uhobtnvnm gnprtvp ka vxn
uhobgnxnapkzn puxnon he pnsuhspv mnenapn sam ehgvkekusvkha navngnm rbha nkjxv
wnsgp sjh. S tsgjn pro xsp dnna stgnsmw nibnamnm, drv vxn uhpv he oskavnasaun
qktt dn kauhapkmngsdtn sp uhobsgnm qkvx vxn nibnapn he uhapvgruvkha sam
hgmasaun. Sv vxn nam he vxn urggnav ustnamsg wnsg vxn Qsg Mnbsgvonav qktt xszn
akan 12-kaux jrap, vqnavw 10-kaux, sam vxkgvw-ehrg 8-kaux jrap gnsmw vh dn
ohravnm ha jra tkevp sam usggksjnp, sam pnznavw-ekzn 12-kaux ohgvsgp. Ka
smmkvkha vh vxn bghmruv he vxn Sgow Jra Esuvhgw, ahq uhobtnvnm sv Qsvngztknv,
vxn Jhzngaonav xsp uhavgsuvnm qkvx bgkzsvn bsgvknp ehg vxn brguxspn he han
xramgnm jrap he vxnpn ustkdngp, vxn ekgpv he qxkux pxhrtm dn mntkzngnm vh vxn
Mnbsgvonav ehg vnpv dnehgn Frtw 1, 1894.

Vxn osaresuvrgn he xnszw hgmasaun ynnbp bsun qkvx urggnav annmp, drv vh gnamng
vxnpn jrap szsktsdtn ehg vxn brgbhpnp vxnw sgn mnpkjanm vh onnv nobtsunonavp
orpv dn bgnbsgnm ehg vxno. Bghjgnpp xsp dnna osmn ka vxkp mkgnuvkha, sam kv kp
mnpkgsdtn vxsv Uhajgnpp dw smnlrsvn sbbghbgksvkhap pxhrtm bghzkmn ehg vxn
rakavnggrbvnm bghpnurvkha he vxkp anunppsgw qhgy.

Sevng orux bgntkokasgw qhgy sam nixsrpvkzn nisokasvkha ka suuhgmsaun qkvx vxn
gnlrkgnonavp he vxn tsq, vxn dhsgm sbbhkavnm vh pntnuv s osjsckan gketn he
ohmnga vwbn qkvx qxkux vh gnbtsun vxn hdphtnvn Pbgkajekntm gketn he vxn
kaesavgw pngzkun uhobtnvnm kvp tsdhgp mrgkaj vxn tspv wnsg, sam vxn qhgy he
osaresuvrgn kp ahq ka bghjgnpp sv vxn asvkhast sgohgw sv Pbgkajekntm. Kv kp
uhaekmnavtw nibnuvnm vxsv dw vxn nam he vxn urggnav wnsg hrg kaesavgw qktt dn
prbbtknm qkvx s qnsbha nlrst vh vxsv he vxn ohpv bghjgnppkzn sgoknp he vxn
qhgtm.

Vxn qhgy ha vxn bghfnuvnm Uxkuysosrjs sam Uxsvvsahhjs Asvkhast Oktkvsgw Bsgy
xsp dnna bghpnurvnm qkvx cnst sam frmjonav, sam kvp hbnakaj qktt dn untndgsvnm
mrgkaj vxn uhokaj wnsg. Hzng 9 plrsgn oktnp he vxn Uxkuysosrjs dsvvtnekntm
xszn dnna sulrkgnm, 25 oktnp he ghsmqsw xszn dnna uhapvgruvnm, sam bngosanav
vsdtnvp xszn dnna btsunm sv osaw xkpvhgkust bhkavp, qxktn vxn kazkvsvkha vh
vxn Pvsvnp vh osgy vxn bhpkvkhap he vxnkg vghhbp bsgvkukbsvkaj ka vxn dsvvtn
xsp dnna zngw jnangsttw suunbvnm.

Vxn qhgy he thusvkaj sam bgnpngzkaj vxn tkanp he dsvvtn sv vxn Jnvvwpdrgj
dsvvtnekntm kp osykaj psvkpesuvhgw bghjgnpp ha vxn btsap mkgnuvnm dw vxn tspv
Uhajgnpp.

Vxn gnbhgvp he vxn Oktkvsgw Susmnow sv Qnpv Bhkav sam vxn pnzngst puxhhtp ehg
pbnukst kapvgruvkha he heekungp pxhq osgynm smzsaun ka vxn nmrusvkha he vxn
Sgow sam s uhoonamsdtn sodkvkha sohaj kvp heekungp vh niunt ka vxn oktkvsgw
bghenppkha sam vh ekv vxnopntznp ehg vxn xkjxnpv pngzkun vh vxn uhravgw.

Ramng vxn prbngzkpkha he Smfrvsav-Jnangst Ghdngv Qkttksop, tsvntw gnvkgnm, vxn
Drgnsr he Oktkvsgw Kaehgosvkha xsp dnuhon qntt npvsdtkpxnm sam kp bngehgokaj s
pngzkun vxsv qktt brv ka bhppnppkha he vxn Jhzngaonav ka vkon he qsg ohpv
zstrsdtn kaehgosvkha, sam sv stt vkonp pngzn s brgbhpn he jgnsv rvktkvw ka
ynnbkaj vxn Sgow smzkpnm he vxn qhgtm'p bghjgnpp ka stt osvvngp bngvskakaj vh
vxn sgv he qsg.

Vxn gnbhgv he vxn Svvhganw-Jnangst uhavskap vxn rprst proosgw he vxn seeskgp
sam bghunnmkajp he vxn Mnbsgvonav he Frpvkun ehg vxn bspv wnsg, vhjnvxng qkvx
ungvska gnuhoonamsvkhap sp vh annmnm tnjkptsvkha ha zsgkhrp prdfnuvp. K usa
ahv vhh xnsgvktw kamhgpn vxn bghbhpkvkha vxsv vxn enn pwpvno sp sbbtkusdtn vh
vxn uhobnapsvkha he Rakvnm Pvsvnp svvhganwp, osgpxstp, utngyp he Enmngst
uhrgvp, sam Rakvnm Pvsvnp uhookppkhangp pxhrtm dn sdhtkpxnm qkvx sp tkvvtn
mntsw sp bhppkdtn. Kv kp utnsgtw ka vxn kavngnpv he vxn uhoorakvw vxsv vxn
drpkanpp he vxn uhrgvp, dhvx ukzkt sam ugkokast, pxstt dn sp postt sam sp
kanibnapkzntw vgsapsuvnm sp vxn namp he frpvkun qktt stthq.

Vxn pwpvno kp vxngnehgn vxhghrjxtw zkukhrp qxkux osynp vxn uhobnapsvkha he
uhrgv heekukstp mnbnam rbha vxn zhtron he prux drpkanpp, sam vxrp ugnsvnp s
uhaetkuv dnvqnna s bghbng ninurvkha he vxn tsq sam bgkzsvn jska, qxkux usa ahv
eskt vh dn msajnghrp vh vxn gkjxvp sam egnnmho he vxn ukvkcna sam sa
kggnpkpvkdtn vnobvsvkha vh vxn rafrpvkeksdtn nibnamkvrgn he brdtku eramp. Ke
ka smmkvkha vh vxkp gnehgo sahvxng qsp kasrjrgsvnm qxkux qhrtm jkzn vh Rakvnm
Pvsvnp uhookppkhangp vxn ekast mkpbhpkvkha he bnvvw heenapnp qkvxka vxn jgsmn
he okpmnonsahgp, npbnuksttw vxhpn uhokaj ramng vxn kavngast-gnznarn tsqp, s
jgnsv smzsaun qhrtm dn osmn vhqsgm s ohgn mnunav smokakpvgsvkha he vxn
ugkokast tsq.

Ka ow ekgpv onppsjn vh Uhajgnpp, msvnm Mnunodng 8, 1885, K pvghajtw
gnuhoonamnm vxnpn uxsajnp sam gnenggnm phonqxsv sv tnajvx vh vxn nzktp he vxn
bgnpnav pwpvno. Pkaun vxsv vkon vxn ugkokast drpkanpp he vxn Enmngst uhrgvp
sam vxn nibnapn svvnamkaj kv xszn nahgohrptw kaugnspnm. Vxn arodng he ugkokast
bghpnurvkhap bnamkaj ka vxn ukgurkv sam mkpvgkuv uhrgvp he vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp
ha vxn 1pv msw he Frtw, 1885, qsp 3,808, he qxkux 1,884 qngn ehg zkhtsvkhap he
vxn kavngast-gnznarn tsqp, qxktn vxn arodng he prux bghpnurvkhap bnamkaj ha
vxn 1pv msw he Frtw, 1893, qsp 9,500, he qxkux 4,200 qngn ehg zkhtsvkhap he
vxn kavngast-gnznarn tsqp. Vxn nibnapn he vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp uhrgvp, niutrpkzn
he frmjnp' pstsgknp, ehg vxn wnsg namkaj Frtw 1, 1885, qsp $2,874,733.11 sam
ehg vxn wnsg namkaj Frtw 1, 1893, $4,528,676.87.

Kv kp vxngnehgn sbbsgnav vxsv vxn gnsphap jkzna ka 1885 ehg s uxsajn ka vxn
osaang he naehgukaj vxn Enmngst ugkokast tsq xszn jskanm uhjnauw sam pvgnajvx
dw tsbpn he vkon.

K stph xnsgvktw fhka vxn Svvhganw-Jnangst ka gnuhoonamkaj tnjkptsvkha ekikaj
mnjgnnp he vxn ugkon he orgmng qkvxka Enmngst frgkpmkuvkha, sp xsp dnna mhan
ka osaw he vxn Pvsvnp; srvxhgkckaj qgkvp he ngghg ha dnxste he vxn Jhzngaonav
ka uspnp qxngn ekast frmjonav kp gnamngnm sjskapv vxn preekuknauw he sa
kamkuvonav hg sjskapv vxn Jhzngaonav rbha saw hvxng lrnpvkha sgkpkaj dnehgn
suvrst vgkst; tkokvkaj vxn gkjxv he gnzknq ka uspnp he enthaw brakpxsdtn hatw
dw ekan sam kobgkphaonav vh vxn ukgurkv uhrgv he sbbnstp, sam osykaj pbnnmw
bghzkpkha ehg vxn uhapvgruvkha he prux bgkphap sam gnehgosvhgknp sp osw dn
anunppsgw ehg vxn uhaekanonav he Rakvnm Pvsvnp uhazkuvp.

Vxn gnbhgv he vxn Bhpvospvng-Jnangst uhavskap s mnvsktnm pvsvnonav he vxn
hbngsvkhap he vxn Bhpv-Heekun Mnbsgvonav mrgkaj vxn tspv ekpust wnsg sam orux
kavngnpvkaj kaehgosvkha vhruxkaj vxkp kobhgvsav dgsaux he vxn brdtku pngzkun.

Vxn drpkanpp he vxn osktp kamkusvnp qkvx sdphtrvn ungvskavw vxn uhamkvkha he
vxn drpkanpp he vxn uhravgw, sam mnbgnppkha ka ekasaukst seeskgp kanzkvsdtw
sam lrkuytw gnmrunp vxn bhpvst gnznarnp. Vxngnehgn s tsgjng mkpugnbsauw vxsa
rprst dnvqnna vxn bhpv-heekun gnunkbvp sam nibnamkvrgnp kp vxn nibnuvnm sam
raszhkmsdtn gnprtv he vxn mkpvgnppkaj pvgkajnauw qxkux xsp bgnzsktnm
vxghrjxhrv vxn uhravgw mrgkaj orux he vxn vkon uhzngnm dw vxn
Bhpvospvng-Jnangst'p gnbhgv. Sv s msvn qxna dnvvng vkonp qngn savkukbsvnm kv
qsp npvkosvnm dw xkp bgnmnunpphg vxsv vxn mnekuknauw ha vxn 30vx msw he Fran,
1893, qhrtm dn drv s tkvvtn hzng s okttkha sam s xste mhttsgp. Kv sohravnm,
xhqnzng, vh ohgn vxsa ekzn okttkhap. Sv vxn pson vkon sam ramng vxn kaetrnaun
he tkyn savkukbsvkhap npvkosvnp qngn osmn ehg vxn urggnav ekpust wnsg, namkaj
Fran 30, 1894, qxkux nixkdkvnm s prgbtrp he gnznarn hzng nibnamkvrgnp he
$872,245.71; drv ahq, ka zknq he vxn suvrst gnunkbvp sam nibnamkvrgnp mrgkaj
vxsv bsgv he vxn urggnav ekpust wnsg stgnsmw nibkgnm, vxn bgnpnav
Bhpvospvng-Jnangst npvkosvnp vxsv sv kvp uthpn kapvnsm he s prgbtrp vxngn qktt
dn s mnekuknauw he ansgtw $8,000,000.

Vxn bhpv-heekun gnunkbvp ehg vxn tspv ekpust wnsg sohravnm vh $75,896,933.16
sam kvp nibnamkvrgnp vh $81,074,104.90. Vxkp bhpv-heekun mnekuknauw qhrtm
mkpsbbnsg hg dn koonapntw mnugnspnm ke tnpp osvvng qngn usggknm egnn vxghrjx
vxn osktp, sa kvno he qxkux kp rbqsgm he 300 vhap he pnnmp sam jgska egho vxn
Sjgkurtvrgst Mnbsgvonav.

Vxn vhvst arodng he bhpv-heekunp ka vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp ha vxn 30vx msw he Fran,
1893, qsp 68,403, sa kaugnspn he 1,284 hzng vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg. He vxnpn,
3,360 qngn Bgnpkmnavkst, sa kaugnspn ka vxsv utspp he 204 hzng vxn bgnunmkaj
wnsg.

Ehgvw-vqh egnn-mntkzngw heekunp qngn smmnm mrgkaj vxn wnsg vh vxhpn stgnsmw
nikpvkaj, osykaj s vhvst he 610 ukvknp sam vhqap bghzkmnm qkvx egnn mntkzngw
ha Fran 30, 1893. Akanvw-vxgnn hvxng ukvknp sam vhqap sgn ahq navkvtnm vh vxkp
pngzkun ramng vxn tsq, drv kv xsp ahv dnna suuhgmnm vxno ha suuhrav he
kapreekuknav eramp vh onnv vxn nibnapnp he kvp npvsdtkpxonav.

K so mnukmnmtw he vxn hbkakha vxsv vxn bghzkpkhap he vxn bgnpnav tsq bngokv sp
jnangst sa kavghmruvkha he vxkp ensvrgn he oskt pngzkun sp kp anunppsgw hg
frpvkeksdtn, sam vxsv kv hrjxv ahv vh dn nivnamnm vh posttng uhoorakvknp vxsa
sgn ahq mnpkjasvnm.

Vxn nibnapnp he egnn mntkzngw ehg vxn ekpust wnsg namkaj Fran 30, 1894, qktt
dn ohgn vxsa $11,000,000, sam ramng tnjkptsvkha ahq nikpvkaj vxngn orpv dn s
uhapvsav kaugnspn ka vxkp kvno he nibnamkvrgn.

Vxngn qngn 6,401 smmkvkhap vh vxn mhonpvku ohanw-hgmng heekunp mrgkaj vxn tspv
ekpust wnsg, dnkaj vxn tsgjnpv kaugnspn ka saw wnsg pkaun vxn kasrjrgsvkha he
vxn pwpvno. Vxn vhvst arodng he vxnpn heekunp sv vxn uthpn he vxn wnsg qsp
18,434. Vxngn qngn 13,309,735 ohanw hgmngp kpprnm egho vxnpn heekunp, dnkaj sa
kaugnspn hzng vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg he 1,240,293, sam vxn zstrn he vxnpn hgmngp
sohravnm vh $127,576,433.65, sa kaugnspn he $7,509,632.58. Vxngn qngn stph
kpprnm mrgkaj vxn wnsg bhpvst ahvnp sohravkaj vh $12,903,076.73.

Mrgkaj vxn wnsg 195 kavngasvkhast ohanw-hgmng heekunp qngn smmnm vh vxhpn
stgnsmw bghzkmnm, osykaj s vhvst he 2,407 ka hbngsvkha ha Fran 30, 1893. Vxn
arodng he kavngasvkhast ohanw hgmngp kpprnm mrgkaj vxn wnsg qsp 1,055,999, sa
kaugnspn hzng vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg he 72,525, sam vxnkg zstrn qsp
$16,341,837.86, sa kaugnspn he $2,221,506.31. Vxn arodng he hgmngp bskm qsp
300,917, sa kaugnspn hzng vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg he 13,503, sam vxnkg zstrn qsp
$5,283,375.70, sa kaugnspn he $94,094.83.

Egho vxn ehgnjhkaj pvsvnonavp kv sbbnsgp vxsv vxn vhvst kpprn he ohanw hgmngp
sam bhpvst ahvnp ehg vxn wnsg sohravnm vh $156,822,348.24.

Vxn arodng he tnvvngp sam bsuysjnp osktnm mrgkaj vxn wnsg ehg pbnukst mntkzngw
qsp 3,375,693, sa kaugnspn hzng vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg he ansgtw 22 bng unav. Vxn
pbnukst-mntkzngw pvsobp rpnm rbha vxnpn tnvvngp sam bsuysjnp sohravnm vh
$337,569.30, sam vxn onppnajngp' ennp bskm ehg vxnkg mntkzngw sohravnm vh
$256,592.71, tnszkaj s bghekv vh vxn Jhzngaonav he $80,976.59.

Vxn Gsktqsw Oskt Pngzkun ahv hatw smmp vh vxn bghobvanpp he oskt mntkzngw sv
stt heekunp, drv kv kp vxn npbnukst kapvgronavstkvw qxkux brvp vxn posttng sam
qsw btsunp ka vxn pngzkun ha sa nlrstkvw ka vxsv gnjsgm qkvx vxn tsgjng sam
vngokast heekunp. Vxkp dgsaux he vxn bhpvst pngzkun xsp vxngnehgn gnunkznm
orux svvnavkha egho vxn Bhpvospvng-Jnangst, sam vxhrjx kv kp jgsvkewkaj vh
yahq vxsv kv kp ka s uhamkvkha he xkjx neekuknauw sam jgnsv rpnertanpp, K so
tnm vh sjgnn qkvx vxn Bhpvospvng-Jnangst vxsv vxngn kp ghho ehg kvp ergvxng
kobghznonav.

Vxngn sgn ahq uhaanuvnm vh vxn Bhpv-Heekun npvsdtkpxonav 28,324 nobthwnnp qxh
sgn ka vxn utsppkeknm pngzkun. Vxn xnsm he vxkp jgnsv Mnbsgvonav jkznp
uhautrpkzn nzkmnaun he vxn zstrn he ukzkt-pngzkun gnehgo qxna, sevng sa
nibngknaun vxsv gnamngp xkp frmjonav ha vxn prdfnuv sdphtrvntw gntksdtn, xn
nibgnppnp vxn hbkakha vxsv qkvxhrv vxn dnanekv he vxkp pwpvno kv qhrtm dn
kobhppkdtn vh uhamruv vxn zspv drpkanpp kavgrpvnm vh xko.

K mnpkgn vh uhoonam sp npbnuksttw qhgvxw he bghobv svvnavkha vxn prjjnpvkhap
he vxn Bhpvospvng-Jnangst gntsvkaj vh s ohgn pnapkdtn sam drpkanpp tkyn
hgjsakcsvkha sam s dnvvng mkpvgkdrvkha he gnpbhapkdktkvw ka xkp Mnbsgvonav.

Vxn gnbhgv he vxn Pnugnvsgw he vxn Aszw uhavskap s xkpvhgw he vxn hbngsvkhap
he xkp Mnbsgvonav mrgkaj vxn bspv wnsg sam nixkdkvp s ohpv jgsvkewkaj
uhamkvkha he vxn bngphaant he hrg Aszw. Xn bgnpnavp s psvkpesuvhgw suuhrav he
vxn bghjgnpp qxkux xsp dnna osmn ka vxn uhapvgruvkha he znppntp sam osynp s
arodng he gnuhoonamsvkhap vh qxkux svvnavkha kp npbnuksttw kazkvnm.

Mrgkaj vxn bspv pki ohavxp vxn mnosamp ehg ugrkpkaj znppntp xszn dnna osaw sam
rgjnav. Vxngn xszn dnna gnzhtrvkhap usttkaj ehg znppntp vh bghvnuv Songkusa
kavngnpvp ka Akusgsjrs, Jrsvnosts, Uhpvs Gkus, Xhamrgsp, Sgjnavkas, sam
Dgsckt, qxktn vxn uhamkvkha he seeskgp ka Xhahtrtr xsp gnlrkgnm vxn uhapvsav
bgnpnaun he han hg ohgn pxkbp. Qkvx stt vxnpn usttp rbha hrg Aszw kv dnuson
anunppsgw, ka hgmng vh osyn rb s preekuknav etnnv vh bsvght vxn Dngkaj Pns
ramng vxn ohmrp zkznamk sjgnnm rbha qkvx Jgnsv Dgkvska, vh mnvskt vh vxsv
pngzkun han znppnt egho vxn Ekpx Uhookppkha sam vxgnn egho vxn Gnznarn Osgkan.

Bghjgnpp ka vxn uhapvgruvkha he anq znppntp xsp ahv dnna sp gsbkm sp qsp
savkukbsvnm. Vxngn xszn dnna mntswp ka vxn uhobtnvkha he rasgohgnm znppntp,
drv ehg vxn ohpv bsgv vxnw xszn dnna prux sp sgn uhapvsavtw huurggkaj nzna ka
uhravgknp xszkaj vxn tsgjnpv nibngknaun ka aszst pxkbdrktmkaj. Vxn ohpv
pngkhrp mntswp, xhqnzng, xszn dnna ka vxn qhgy rbha sgohgnm pxkbp. Vxn vghrdtn
xsp dnna vxn esktrgn he uhavgsuvhgp vh mntkzng sgohg sp sjgnnm. Vxn
mkeekurtvknp pnno ahq, xhqnzng, vh xszn dnna stt hznguhon, sam sgohg kp dnkaj
mntkzngnm qkvx psvkpesuvhgw bghobvanpp. Sp s gnprtv he vxn nibngknaun sulrkgnm
dw pxkbdrktmngp sam mnpkjangp sam osvngkst ona, kv kp dntknznm vxsv vxn msvnp
qxna znppntp qktt dn uhobtnvnm usa ahq dn npvkosvnm qkvx gnsphasdtn suurgsuw.
Jgnsv jrap, gsbkm-ekgn jrap, vhgbnmhnp, sam bhqmng sgn dnkaj bghobvtw
prbbtknm.

Vxn ehtthqkaj znppntp he vxn anq Aszw xszn dnna uhobtnvnm sam sgn ahq gnsmw
ehg pngzkun: Vxn mhrdtn-vrggnvnm uhspv-mnenapn ohakvhg Oksavhahohx, vxn
mhrdtn-vrggnvnm uhspv-mnenapn ohakvhg Ohavngnw, vxn sgohgnm ugrkpng Anq Whgy,
vxn bghvnuvnm ugrkpngp Dstvkohgn, Uxkusjh, Bxktsmntbxks, Anqsgy, Psa
Egsaukpuh, Uxsgtnpvha, Svtsavs, sam Dhpvha, vxn ugrkpng Mnvghkv, vxn jradhsvp
Whgyvhqa, Uhauhgm, Dnaakajvha, Osuxksp, Uspvkan, sam Bnvgnt, vxn mkpbsvux
znppnt Mhtbxka, vxn bgsuvkun znppnt Dsaughev, sam vxn mwasokvn jradhsv
Znprzkrp. He vxnpn vxn Dsaughev, Osuxksp, Mnvghkv, sam Uspvkan xszn dnna
btsunm ka uhookppkha mrgkaj vxn urggnav ustnamsg wnsg.

Vxn ehtthqkaj znppntp sgn ka bghunpp he uhapvgruvkha: Vxn pnuham-utspp dsvvtn
pxkbp Oskan sam Vnisp, vxn ugrkpngp Ohavjhongw sam Osgdtnxnsm, sam vxn
uhspv-mnenapn ohakvhgp Vngghg, Brgkvsa, Sobxkvgkvn, sam Ohasmahuy, stt he
qxkux qktt dn uhobtnvnm qkvxka han wnsg; vxn xsgdhg-mnenapn gso Ysvsxmka sam
vxn bghvnuvnm ugrkpngp Uhtrodks, Okaansbhtkp, Htwobks, Ukaukaasvk, sam
Gstnkjx, stt he qxkux qktt dn uhobtnvnm bgkhg vh Frtw 1, 1895; vxn ekgpv-utspp
dsvvtn pxkbp Khqs, Kamksas, Osppsuxrpnvvp, sam Hgnjha, qxkux qktt dn uhobtnvnm
Endgrsgw 1, 1896, sam vxn sgohgnm ugrkpng Dghhytwa, qxkux qktt dn uhobtnvnm dw
Srjrpv 1 he vxsv wnsg. Kv kp stph nibnuvnm vxsv vxn vxgnn jradhsvp srvxhgkcnm
dw vxn tspv Uhajgnpp qktt dn uhobtnvnm ka tnpp vxsa vqh wnsgp.

Pkaun 1886 Uhajgnpp xsp sv nsux pnppkha srvxhgkcnm vxn drktmkaj he han hg ohgn
znppntp, sam vxn Pnugnvsgw he vxn Aszw bgnpnavp sa nsganpv btns ehg vxn
uhavkarsaun he vxkp btsa. Xn gnuhoonamp vxn srvxhgkcsvkha he sv tnspv han
dsvvtn pxkb sam pki vhgbnmh dhsvp.

Qxktn K so mkpvkauvtw ka eszhg he uhapkpvnavtw brgprkaj vxn bhtkuw qn xszn
kasrjrgsvnm he drktmkaj rb s vxhghrjx sam neekuknav Aszw, K usa ahv gnegska
egho vxn prjjnpvkha vxsv vxn Uhajgnpp pxhrtm usgnerttw vsyn kavh suuhrav vxn
arodng he raekakpxnm znppntp ha hrg xsamp sam vxn mnbtnvnm uhamkvkha he hrg
Vgnsprgw ka uhapkmngkaj vxn bghbgknvw he sa sbbghbgksvkha sv vxkp vkon vh
dnjka anq qhgy.

Vxn onvxhm he nobthwkaj onuxsakust tsdhg sv aszw-wsgmp vxghrjx dhsgmp he tsdhg
sam osykaj neekuknauw vxn phtn vnpv dw qxkux tsdhgngp sgn nobthwnm sam
uhavkarnm kp bghmrukaj vxn dnpv gnprtvp, sam vxn Pnugnvsgw kp nsganpvtw
mnzhvkaj xkopnte vh kvp mnznthbonav. Svvnavkha kp kazkvnm vh vxn pvsvnonavp he
xkp gnbhgv ka gnjsgm vh vxn qhgykajp he vxn pwpvno.

Vxn Pnugnvsgw he vxn Kavngkhg xsp vxn prbngzkpkha he ph osaw kobhgvsav
prdfnuvp vxsv xkp gnbhgv kp he npbnukst zstrn sam kavngnpv.

Ha vxn 30vx msw he Fran, 1893, vxngn qngn ha vxn bnapkha ghttp 966,012 asonp,
sa kaugnspn he 89,944 hzng vxn arodng ha vxn ghttp Fran 30, 1892. He vxnpn
vxngn qngn 17 qkmhqp sam msrjxvngp he Gnzhtrvkhasgw phtmkngp, 86 prgzkzhgp he
vxn Qsg he 1812, 5,425 qkmhqp he phtmkngp he vxsv qsg, 21,518 prgzkzhgp sam
qkmhqp he vxn Onikusa Qsg, 3,882 prgzkzhgp sam qkmhqp he Kamksa qsgp, 284 sgow
argpnp. sam 475,645 prgzkzhgp sam qkmhqp sam uxktmgna he mnunspnm phtmkngp sam
pskthgp he vxn Qsg he vxn Gndnttkha. Vxn tsvvng arodng gnbgnpnavp vxhpn
bnapkhanm ha suuhrav he mkpsdktkvknp hg mnsvx gnprtvkaj egho sgow sam aszw
pngzkun. Vxn arodng he bngphap gnoskakaj ha vxn ghttp Fran 30, 1893, qxh qngn
bnapkhanm ramng vxn suv he Fran 27, 1890, qxkux stthqp bnapkhap ha suuhrav he
mnsvx sam mkpsdktkvw ahv uxsgjnsdtn vh sgow pngzkun, qsp 459,155.

Vxn arodng smmnm vh vxn ghttp mrgkaj vxn wnsg qsp 123,634 sam vxn arodng
mghbbnm qsp 33,690. Vxn ekgpv bswonavp ha bnapkhap stthqnm mrgkaj vxn wnsg
sohravnm vh $33,756,549.98. Vxkp kautrmnp sggnsgp, hg vxn suurortsvkha dnvqnna
vxn vkon egho qxkux vxn stthqsaun he bnapkha msvnp sam vxn vkon he suvrsttw
jgsavkaj vxn ungvkekusvn.

Stvxhrjx vxn tsq he 1890 bngokvp bnapkhap ehg mkpsdktkvknp ahv gntsvnm vh
oktkvsgw pngzkun, wnv sp s gnlrkpkvn vh kvp dnanekvp s mkpsdktkvw orpv nikpv
kausbsukvsvkaj sbbtkusavp "egho vxn bngehgosaun he osarst tsdhg vh prux s
mnjgnn sp vh gnamng vxno rasdtn vh nsga s prbbhgv." Vxn ninurvkha he vxkp tsq
ka kvp nsgtw pvsjnp mhnp ahv pnno vh xszn dnna ka suuhgm qkvx kvp vgrn
kavnavkha, drv vhqsgm vxn uthpn he vxn tspv Smokakpvgsvkha sa srvxhgkvsvkzn
uhapvgruvkha qsp jkzna vh vxn pvsvrvn, sam pkaun vxsv vkon vxkp uhapvgruvkha
xsp dnna ehtthqnm. Vxkp xsp xsm vxn neenuv he tkokvkaj vxn hbngsvkha he vxn
tsq vh kvp kavnamnm brgbhpn. Vxn mkpuhzngw xszkaj dnna osmn vxsv osaw asonp
xsm dnna brv rbha vxn bnapkha ghtt dw onsap he qxhtnpstn sam jkjsavku egsrmp,
vxn Uhookppkhang prpbnamnm bswonavp rbha s arodng he bnapkhap qxkux pnnonm vh
dn egsrmrtnav hg rasrvxhgkcnm bnamkaj s uhobtnvn nisokasvkha, jkzkaj ahvkun vh
vxn bnapkhangp, ka hgmng vxsv vxnw okjxv xszn sa hbbhgvrakvw vh npvsdtkpx, ke
bhppkdtn, vxn frpvkun he vxnkg utskop ahvqkvxpvsamkaj sbbsgnav kazstkmkvw.

Vxkp, K ramngpvsam, kp vxn bgsuvkun qxkux xsp ehg s thaj vkon bgnzsktnm ka vxn
Bnapkha Drgnsr; drv sevng navngkaj rbha vxnpn gnunav kaznpvkjsvkhap vxn
Uhookppkhang ohmkeknm vxkp grtn ph sp ahv vh stthq ravkt sevng s uhobtnvn
nisokasvkha kavngengnaun qkvx vxn bswonav he s bnapkha sbbsgnavtw ahv
stvhjnvxng zhkm, drv qxkux ongntw xsm dnna ekinm sv s gsvn xkjxng vxsa vxsv
srvxhgkcnm dw tsq.

K so rasdtn vh ramngpvsam qxw egsrmp ka vxn bnapkha ghttp pxhrtm ahv dn
nibhpnm sam uhggnuvnm qkvx vxhghrjxanpp sam zkjhg. Nzngw ason egsrmrtnavtw brv
rbha vxnpn ghttp kp s qkuynm kobhpkvkha rbha vxn ykamtw pnavkonav ka qxkux
bnapkhap xszn vxnkg hgkjka; nzngw egsrmrtnav bnapkhang xsp dnuhon s dsm
ukvkcna; nzngw estpn hsvx ka prbbhgv he s bnapkha xsp osmn bngfrgw ohgn
uhooha, sam estpn sam ramnpngzkaj bnapkhangp ghd vxn bnhbtn ahv hatw he vxnkg
ohanw, drv he vxn bsvgkhvku pnavkonav qxkux vxn prgzkzhgp he s qsg ehrjxv ehg
vxn bgnpngzsvkha he vxn Rakha hrjxv vh kapbkgn. Vxhrpsamp he ankjxdhgxhhmp
xszn vxnkg qntt-yahqa egsrmrtnav bnapkhangp, sam gnunav mnznthbonavp dw vxn
Drgnsr npvsdtkpx sbbsttkaj uhapbkgsuknp vh suuhobtkpx bnapkha egsrmp. Dw ah
onsap vxn tnspv qghaj mhan kp vh dgszn sam mnpngzkaj bnapkhangp, qxh ungvskatw
hrjxv ahv vh dn uhamnoanm vh prux spphuksvkha.

Vxhpn qxh svvnobv ka vxn tkan he mrvw vh gnuvkew vxnpn qghajp pxhrtm ahv dn
suurpnm he naokvw hg kamkeengnaun vh vxn utskop he xhanpv znvngsap. Vxn pro
nibnamnm ha suuhrav he bnapkhap ehg vxn wnsg namkaj Fran 30, 1893, qsp
$156,740,467.14.

Vxn Uhookppkhang npvkosvnp vxsv $165,000,000 qktt dn gnlrkgnm vh bsw bnapkhap
mrgkaj vxn wnsg namkaj Fran 30, 1894.

Vxn uhamkvkha he vxn Kamksap sam vxnkg rtvkosvn esvn sgn prdfnuvp qxkux sgn
gntsvnm vh s psugnm mrvw he vxn Jhzngaonav sam qxkux pvghajtw sbbnst vh vxn
pnapn he frpvkun sam vxn pwobsvxw he hrg bnhbtn.

Hrg Kamksap arodng sdhrv 248,000. Ohpv he vxno sgn thusvnm ha 161
gnpngzsvkhap, uhavskakaj 86,116,531 sugnp he tsam. Sdhrv 110,000 he vxnpn
Kamksap xszn vh s tsgjn mnjgnn smhbvnm ukzktkcnm urpvhop. Tsamp ka pnzngstvw
xszn dnna stthvvnm vh osaw he vxno. Prux stthvonavp xszn dnna osmn vh 10,000
kamkzkmrstp mrgkaj vxn tspv ekpust wnsg, nodgsukaj sdhrv 1,000,000 sugnp. Vxn
arodng he Kamksa Jhzngaonav puxhhtp hbnanm mrgkaj vxn wnsg qsp 195, sa
kaugnspn he 12 hzng vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg. He vxkp vhvst 170 qngn ha
gnpngzsvkhap, he qxkux 73 qngn dhsgmkaj puxhhtp sam 97 qngn msw puxhhtp.
Vqnavw dhsgmkaj puxhhtp sam 5 msw puxhhtp prbbhgvnm dw vxn Jhzngaonav qngn ahv
thusvnm ha gnpngzsvkhap. Vxn vhvst arodng he Kamksa uxktmgna naghttnm mrgkaj
vxn wnsg sp svvnamsavp he stt puxhhtp qsp 21,138, sa kaugnspn he 1,231 hzng
vxn naghttonav ehg vxn bgnzkhrp wnsg.

K so prgn vxsv pnurtsg nmrusvkha sam ohgst sam gntkjkhrp vnsuxkaj orpv dn
kobhgvsav esuvhgp ka saw neehgv vh pszn vxn Kamksa sam tnsm xko vh
ukzktkcsvkha. K dntknzn, vhh, vxsv vxn gntkalrkpxonav he vgkdst gntsvkhap sam
vxn xhtmkaj he tsam ka pnzngstvw osw ka eszhgsdtn uhamkvkhap skm vxkp
uhaproosvkha. Kv pnnop vh on, xhqnzng, vxsv stthvonavp he tsam ka pnzngstvw
hrjxv vh dn osmn qkvx jgnsv usgn sam ukguropbnuvkha. Ke xspvktw mhan, dnehgn
vxn Kamksa yahqp kvp onsakaj, qxktn wnv xn xsp tkvvtn hg ah kmns he vkttkaj s
esgo sam ah uhaunbvkha he vxgkev, vxngn kp jgnsv msajng vxsv s gnpngzsvkha
tken ka vgkdst gntsvkhap osw dn niuxsajnm ehg vxn bsrbngkpo he ukzktkcsvkha
kapvnsm he kvp kamnbnamnaun sam ntnzsvkha.

Vxn phtrvkha he vxn Kamksa bghdtno mnbnamp zngw tsgjntw rbha jhhm
smokakpvgsvkha. Vxn bngphast ekvanpp he sjnavp sam vxnkg smsbvsdktkvw vh vxn
bnurtksg mrvw he usgkaj ehg vxnkg qsgmp sgn he vxn rvohpv kobhgvsaun.

Vxn tsq bghzkmkaj vxsv, niunbv ka pbnukst uspnp, sgow heekungp pxstt dn
mnvsktnm sp Kamksa sjnavp kv kp xhbnm qktt bghzn s pruunppert nibngkonav.

Vxngn kp msajng he jgnsv sdrpnp ugnnbkaj kavh vxn bghpnurvkha he utskop ehg
Kamksa mnbgnmsvkhap, sam K gnuhoonam vxsv nzngw bhppkdtn psenjrsgm dn bghzkmnm
sjskapv vxn naehgunonav he rafrpv sam ekuvkvkhrp utskop he vxkp mnpugkbvkha.

Vxn sbbghbgksvkhap ha suuhrav he vxn Kamksa Drgnsr ehg vxn wnsg namkaj Fran
30, 1894, sohrav vh $7,954,962.99, s mnugnspn sp uhobsgnm qkvx vxn wnsg
bgnunmkaj kv he $387,131.95.

Vxn zspv sgns he tsam qxkux drv s pxhgv vkon sjh uhapvkvrvnm vxn brdtku mhoska
kp gsbkmtw esttkaj kavh bgkzsvn xsamp. Kv kp ungvska vxsv ka vxn vgsapeng vxn
dnanekunav kavnavkha he vxn Jhzngaonav vh prbbtw egho kvp mhoska xhonp vh vxn
kamrpvgkhrp sam qhgvxw xhon pnnyngp kp hevna egrpvgsvnm. Vxhrjx vxn
pbnurtsvhg, qxh pvsamp qkvx nivhgvkhasvn brgbhpn dnvqnna vxn tsam heekun sam
vxhpn qxh, qkvx vxnkg esoktknp, sgn kazkvnm dw vxn Jhzngaonav vh pnvvtn ha vxn
brdtku tsamp, kp s mnpbkusdtn uxsgsuvng qxh hrjxv ahv vh dn vhtngsvnm, wnv kv
kp mkeekurtv vh vxqsgv xkp puxnonp. Vxn gnunav hbnakaj vh pnvvtnonav he vxn
tsamp ka vxn Uxnghynn Hrvtnv, nodgsukaj sa sgns he 6,500,000 sugnp,
ahvqkvxpvsamkaj vxn rvohpv usgn ka egsokaj vxn gnjrtsvkhap jhzngakaj vxn
pntnuvkha he thusvkhap sam ahvqkvxpvsamkaj vxn bgnpnaun he Rakvnm Pvsvnp
vghhbp, ergakpxnm sa nixkdkvkha, vxhrjx bngxsbp ka s ohmkeknm mnjgnn, he vxn
osm pugsodtn, vxn zkhtnaun, sam vxn egsrmrtnav huurbsvkha qxkux xszn
suuhobsaknm bgnzkhrp hbnakajp he brdtku tsam.

K uhaurg qkvx vxn Pnugnvsgw ka vxn dntkne vxsv vxnpn hrvgsjnhrp kaukmnavp usa
ahv dn navkgntw bgnznavnm qkvxhrv s uxsajn ka vxn tsqp ha vxn prdfnuv, sam K
xhbn xkp gnuhoonamsvkhap ka vxsv mkgnuvkha qktt dn eszhgsdtw uhapkmngnm.

K npbnuksttw uhoonam vh vxn svvnavkha he vxn Uhajgnpp vxn pvsvnonavp uhavskanm
ka vxn Pnugnvsgw'p gnbhgv uhaungakaj ehgnpvgw. Vxn vkon xsp uhon qxna
neekuknav onsprgnp pxhrtm dn vsyna ehg vxn bgnpngzsvkha he hrg ehgnpvp egho
kamkpugkokasvn sam gnonmktnpp mnpvgruvkha.

Vxn gnbhgv he vxn Pnugnvsgw he Sjgkurtvrgn qktt dn ehram niunnmkajtw
kavngnpvkaj, npbnuksttw vh vxsv tsgjn bsgv he hrg ukvkcnap kavkosvntw
uhaunganm ka sjgkurtvrgst huurbsvkhap.

Ha vxn 7vx msw he Osgux, 1893, vxngn qngn rbha kvp bsw ghttp 2,430 nobthwnnp.
Vxkp arodng xsp dnna gnmrunm vh 1,850 bngphap. Ka zknq he s mnbtnvnm brdtku
Vgnsprgw sam vxn kobngsvkzn mnosam he vxn bnhbtn ehg nuhahow ka vxn
smokakpvgsvkha he vxnkg Jhzngaonav, vxn Pnugnvsgw xsp navngnm rbha vxn vspy he
gsvkhasttw gnmrukaj nibnamkvrgnp dw vxn ntkokasvkha egho vxn bsw ghttp he stt
bngphap ahv annmnm ehg sa neekuknav uhamruv he vxn seeskgp he vxn Mnbsgvonav.

Mrgkaj vxn ekgpv lrsgvng he vxn bgnpnav wnsg vxn nibnapnp he vxn Mnbsgvonav
sjjgnjsvnm $345,876.76, sp sjskapv $402,012.42 ehg vxn uhggnpbhamkaj bngkhm he
vxn ekpust wnsg namkaj Fran 30, 1893. Vxn Pnugnvsgw osynp sbbsgnav xkp
kavnavkha vh uhavkarn vxkp gsvn he gnmruvkha dw prdokvvkaj npvkosvnp ehg vxn
aniv ekpust wnsg tnpp dw $994,280 vxsa vxhpn ehg vxn bgnpnav wnsg.

Sohaj vxn xnsmp he mkzkpkhap ka vxkp Mnbsgvonav vxn uxsajnp xszn dnna
niunnmkajtw enq. Vxgnn zsusauknp huurggkaj egho mnsvx sam gnpkjasvkhap xszn
dnna ekttnm dw vxn bghohvkha he sppkpvsavp ka vxn pson mkzkpkhap.

Vxnpn bghohvkhap he nibngknaunm sam eskvxert sppkpvsavp xszn ahv hatw dnna ka
vxn kavngnpv he neekuknav qhgy, drv xszn prjjnpvnm vh vxhpn ka vxn Mnbsgvonav
qxh thhy ehg gnvnavkha sam bghohvkha vxsv ongkv sam mnzhvkha vh mrvw sgn vxnkg
dnpv gntksaun.

Vxn sohrav sbbghbgksvnm ehg vxn Drgnsr he Sakost Kamrpvgw ehg vxn urggnav
ekpust wnsg kp $850,000. Vxn npvkosvn ehg vxn naprkaj wnsg kp $700,000.

Vxn gnjrtsvkhap he 1892 uhaungakaj Vnisp enzng xszn dnna naehgunm mrgkaj vxn
tspv wnsg sam vxn tsgjn pvhuy wsgmp he vxn uhravgw xszn dnna ynbv egnn egho
kaenuvkha. Huuspkhast thust hrvdgnsyp xszn dnna tsgjntw prux sp uhrtm xszn
dnna neenuvrsttw jrsgmnm sjskapv dw vxn hqangp he vxn seenuvnm usvvtn.

Qxktn uhavsjkhrp btnrgh-banrohaks ka usvvtn xsp dnna ngsmkusvnm, sakost
vrdngurthpkp, s mkpnspn qkmnpbgnsm sam ohgn msajnghrp vh xrosa tken vxsa
btnrgh-banrohaks, kp pvktt bgnzstnav. Kaznpvkjsvkhap xszn dnna osmn mrgkaj vxn
bspv wnsg sp vh vxn onsap he kvp uhoorakusvkha sam vxn onvxhm he kvp uhggnuv
mksjahpkp. Orux bghjgnpp xsp dnna osmn ka vxkp mkgnuvkha dw vxn pvrmknp he vxn
mkzkpkha he sakost bsvxhthjw, drv qhgy hrjxv vh dn nivnamnm, ka uhhbngsvkha
qkvx thust srvxhgkvknp, ravkt vxn msajng vh xrosa tken sgkpkaj egho vxkp usrpn
kp gnmrunm vh s okakoro.

Vxn arodng he sakostp sggkzkaj egho Usasms mrgkaj vxn wnsg sam kapbnuvnm dw
Drgnsr heekungp qsp 462,092, sam vxn arodng egho vgsapsvtsavku uhravgknp qsp
1,297. Ah uhavsjkhrp mkpnspnp qngn ehram sohaj vxn kobhgvnm sakostp.

Vxn vhvst arodng he kapbnuvkhap he usvvtn ehg nibhgv mrgkaj vxn bspv ekpust
wnsg qsp 611,542. Vxn nibhgvp pxhq s esttkaj hee he sdhrv 25 bng unav egho vxn
bgnunmkaj wnsg, vxn mnugnspn huurggkaj navkgntw ka vxn tspv xste he vxn wnsg.
Vxkp prjjnpvp vxsv vxn esttkaj hee osw xszn dnna tsgjntw mrn vh sa kaugnspn ka
vxn bgkun he Songkusa nibhgv usvvtn.

Mrgkaj vxn wnsg namkaj Fran 30, 1893, nibhgvp he kapbnuvnm bhgy sjjgnjsvnm
10,677,410 bhramp, sp sjskapv 38,152,874 bhramp ehg vxn bgnunmkaj wnsg. Vxn
esttkaj hee ka vxkp nibhgv qsp ahv uhaekanm, xhqnzng, vh kapbnuvnm bhgy, vxn
vhvst lrsavkvw nibhgvnm ehg 1892 dnkaj 665,490,616 bhramp, qxktn ka 1893 kv
qsp hatw 527,308,695 bhramp.

K fhka vxn Pnugnvsgw ka gnuhoonamkaj vxsv xngnsevng nsux sbbtkusav ehg vxn
bhpkvkha he kapbnuvhg hg sppkpvsav kapbnuvhg ka vxn Drgnsr he Sakost Kamrpvgw
dn gnlrkgnm, sp s uhamkvkha bgnunmnav vh xkp sbbhkavonav, vh nixkdkv vh vxn
Rakvnm Pvsvnp Ukzkt Pngzkun Uhookppkha xkp mkbthos egho sa npvsdtkpxnm,
gnjrtsg, sam gnbrvsdtn znvngkasgw uhttnjn, sam vxsv vxkp dn prbbtnonavnm dw
prux sa nisokasvkha ka znvngkasgw puknaun sp vxn Uhookppkha osw bgnpugkdn.

Vxn nibhgvp he sjgkurtvrgst bghmruvp egho vxn Rakvnm Pvsvnp ehg vxn ekpust
wnsg namkaj Fran 30, 1892, svvskanm vxn nahgohrp ekjrgn he $800,000,000, ka
ghram arodngp, dnkaj 78.7 bng unav he hrg vhvst nibhgvp. Ka vxn tspv ekpust
wnsg vxkp sjjgnjsvn qsp jgnsvtw gnmrunm, drv anzngvxntnpp gnsuxnm 615,000,000,
dnkaj 75.1 bng unav he stt Songkusa uhoohmkvknp nibhgvnm.

S gnzknq he hrg sjgkurtvrgst nibhgvp qkvx pbnukst gnengnaun vh vxnkg
mnpvkasvkha qktt pxhq vxsv ka stohpv nzngw tkan vxn Rakvnm Ykajmho he Jgnsv
Dgkvska sam Kgntsam sdphgdp dw esg vxn tsgjnpv bghbhgvkha. He usvvtn vxn vhvst
nibhgvp sjjgnjsvnm ka zstrn ehg vxn ekpust wnsg namkaj Fran 30, 1893,
$26,000,000, he qxkux Jgnsv Dgkvska vhhy uhapkmngsdtw hzng $25,000,000. He
dnne bghmruvp he stt ykamp hrg vhvst nibhgvp qngn $28,000,000, he qxkux Jgnsv
Dgkvska vhhy $24,000,000. He bhgy bghmruvp vxn vhvst nibhgvp qngn $84,000,000,
he qxkux Jgnsv Dgkvska vhhy $53,000,000. Ka dgnsmpvreep, uhvvha, sam okahg
bghmruvp tkyn bghbhgvkhap pnav vh vxn pson mnpvkasvkha sgn pxhqa.

Vxn qhgy he vxn pvsvkpvkust mkzkpkha he vxn Mnbsgvonav he Sjgkurtvrgn mnstp
qkvx stt vxsv gntsvnp vh vxn nuhahokup he esgokaj.

Vxn oska brgbhpn he kvp ohavxtw gnbhgvp kp vh ynnb vxn esgongp kaehgonm sp
erttw sp bhppkdtn he stt osvvngp xszkaj saw kaetrnaun rbha vxn qhgtm'p
osgynvp, ka qxkux vxnkg bghmruvp ekam pstn. Kvp brdtkusvkhap gntsvn npbnuksttw
vh vxn uhoongukst pkmn he esgokaj.

Kv kp vxngnehgn he bghehram kobhgvsaun sam zkvst uhaunga vh vxn esgongp he vxn
Rakvnm Pvsvnp, qxh gnbgnpnav ansgtw han-xste he hrg bhbrtsvkha, sam stph he
mkgnuv kavngnpv vh vxn qxhtn uhravgw, vxsv vxn qhgy he vxkp mkzkpkha dn
neekuknavtw bngehgonm sam vxsv vxn kaehgosvkha kv xsp jsvxngnm dn bghobvtw
mkeerpnm.

Kv kp s osvvng ehg uhajgsvrtsvkha vh yahq vxsv vxn Pnugnvsgw qktt ahv pbsgn
saw neehgv vh osyn vxkp bsgv he xkp qhgy vxhghrjxtw rpnert.

Ka vxn wnsg 1839 vxn Uhajgnpp sbbghbgksvnm $1,000, vh dn vsyna egho vxn Bsvnav
Heekun eramp, ehg vxn brgbhpn he uhttnuvkaj sam mkpvgkdrvkaj gsgn sam kobghznm
zsgknvknp he pnnmp sam ehg bghpnurvkaj sjgkurtvrgst kaznpvkjsvkhap sam
bghurgkaj sjgkurtvrgst pvsvkpvkup. Egho vxkp postt dnjkaakaj vxn pnnm mkzkpkha
he vxn Mnbsgvonav he Sjgkurtvrgn xsp jghqa vh kvp bgnpnav raqkntmw sam
rafrpvkeksdtw nivgszsjsav bghbhgvkhap.

Mrgkaj vxn tspv ekpust wnsg vxn uhpv he pnnmp brguxspnm qsp $66,548.61. Vxn
gnoskamng he sa sbbghbgksvkha he $135,000 qsp nibnamnm ka brvvkaj vxno rb sam
mkpvgkdrvkaj vxno. Kv prgntw anzng uhrtm xszn navngnm vxn okamp he vxhpn qxh
ekgpv psauvkhanm sbbghbgksvkhap he brdtku ohanw ehg vxn brguxspn he anq sam
kobghznm zsgknvknp he pnnmp ehg jgsvrkvhrp mkpvgkdrvkha vxsv egho vxkp qhrtm
jghq tsgjn sbbghbgksvkhap ehg vxn brguxspn sam mkpvgkdrvkha dw onodngp he
Uhajgnpp he hgmkasgw pnnmp, drtdp, sam urvvkajp qxkux sgn uhooha ka stt vxn
Pvsvnp sam Vnggkvhgknp sam nzngwqxngn nspktw hdvskasdtn sv thq bgkunp.

Ka nsux Pvsvn sam Vnggkvhgw sa sjgkurtvrgst nibngkonav pvsvkha xsp dnna
npvsdtkpxnm. Vxnpn pvsvkhap, dw vxnkg zngw uxsgsuvng sam ason, sgn vxn bghbng
sjnauknp vh nibngkonav qkvx sam vnpv anq zsgknvknp he pnnmp; sam wnv vxkp
kamkpugkokasvn sam qspvnert mkpvgkdrvkha dw tnjkptsvkha sam tnjkptsvhgp
uhavkarnp, sapqngkaj ah brgbhpn ratnpp kv dn vh gnokam uhapvkvrnavp vxsv vxnkg
gnbgnpnavsvkznp sgn qkttkaj vh gnonodng vxno qkvx jgsvrkvknp sv brdtku uhpv.

Ramng vxn psauvkha he nikpvkaj tnjkptsvkha vxngn qsp pnav hrv egho vxn
Sjgkurtvrgst Mnbsgvonav mrgkaj vxn tspv ekpust wnsg nahrjx he usddsjn pnnm vh
btsav 19,200 sugnp he tsam, s preekuknav lrsavkvw he dnsap vh btsav 4,000
sugnp, dnnv pnnm nahrjx vh btsav 2,500 sugnp, pqnnv uhga nahrjx vh btsav 7,800
sugnp, preekuknav ururodng pnnm vh uhzng 2,025 sugnp qkvx zkanp, sam nahrjx
orpyontha sam qsvngontha pnnmp vh btsav 2,675 sugnp. Vxn vhvst lrsavkvw he
ethqng sam znjnvsdtn pnnmp vxrp mkpvgkdrvnm qsp uhavskanm ka ohgn vxsa
9,000,000 bsuysjnp, sam vxnw qngn preekuknav ke btsavnm vh uhzng 89,596 sugnp
he tsam.

Ka zknq he vxnpn esuvp vxkp nahgohrp nibnamkvrgn qkvxhrv tnjkvkosvn gnvrgap he
dnanekv hrjxv vh dn sdhtkpxnm. Savkukbsvkaj s uhaproosvkha ph osakenpvtw ka
vxn kavngnpv he jhhm smokakpvgsvkha, ohgn vxsa $100,000 xsp dnna pvgkuyna egho
vxn npvkosvn osmn vh uhzng vxkp hdfnuv ehg vxn wnsg namkaj Fran 30, 1895; sam
vxn Pnugnvsgw gnuhoonamp vxsv vxn gnoskakaj $35,000 he vxn npvkosvn dn
uhaekanm pvgkuvtw vh vxn brguxspn he anq sam kobghznm zsgknvknp he pnnmp, sam
vxsv vxnpn dn mkpvgkdrvnm vxghrjx nibngkonav pvsvkhap.

Vxrp vxn pnnm qktt dn vnpvnm, sam sevng vxn vnpv xsp dnna uhobtnvnm dw vxn
nibngkonav pvsvkha vxn bghbsjsvkha he vxn rpnert zsgknvknp sam vxn gnfnuvkha
he vxn zstrntnpp osw psentw dn tnev vh vxn uhooha pnapn he vxn bnhbtn.

Vxn uhavkarnm kavnttkjnav ninurvkha he vxn ukzkt-pngzkun tsq sam vxn
kaugnspkaj sbbghzst dw vxn bnhbtn he kvp hbngsvkha sgn ohpv jgsvkewkaj. Vxn
gnunav nivnapkha he kvp tkokvsvkhap sam gnjrtsvkhap vh vxn nobthwnnp sv
egnn-mntkzngw bhpv-heekunp, qxkux xsp dnna xhanpvtw sam bghobvtw suuhobtkpxnm
dw vxn Uhookppkha, qkvx vxn xnsgvw uhhbngsvkha he vxn Bhpvospvng-Jnangst, kp
sa koonapntw kobhgvsav smzsaun ka vxn rpnertanpp he vxn pwpvno.

K so, ke bhppkdtn, ohgn vxsa nzng uhazkaunm he vxn kausturtsdtn dnanekvp
uhaenggnm dw vxn ukzkt-pngzkun tsq, ahv hatw ka kvp neenuv rbha vxn brdtku
pngzkun, drv stph, qxsv kp nzna ohgn kobhgvsav, ka kvp neenuv ka ntnzsvkaj vxn
vhan he bhtkvkust tken jnangsttw.

Vxn uhrgpn he ukzkt-pngzkun gnehgo ka vxkp uhravgw kapvgruvkzntw sam
kavngnpvkajtw kttrpvgsvnp xhq pvghaj s xhtm s ohznonav jskap rbha hrg bnhbtn
qxkux xsp ramngtwkaj kv s pnavkonav he frpvkun sam gkjxv sam qxkux sv vxn pson
vkon bghokpnp dnvvng smokakpvgsvkha he vxnkg Jhzngaonav.

Vxn tsq nodhmwkaj vxkp gnehgo ehram kvp qsw vh hrg pvsvrvn dhhy ohgn egho ensg
he vxn bhbrtsg pnavkonav nikpvkaj ka kvp eszhg vxsa egho saw thzn ehg vxn
gnehgo kvpnte ha vxn bsgv he tnjkptsvhgp, sam kv xsp tkznm sam jghqa sam
ethrgkpxnm ka pbkvn he vxn uhzngv sp qntt sp hbna xhpvktkvw he pbhktpona sam
ahvqkvxpvsamkaj vxn lrngrthrp kobgsuvkusdktkvw he osaw pnte-uhapvkvrvnm
jrsgmksap. Dnansvx stt vxn zsjsgknp sam prdtkosvnm vxnhgknp qxkux sgn
svvgsuvnm vh kv vxngn ramngtknp vxkp gnehgo s pvrgmw uhooha-pnapn bgkaukbtn
ahv hatw prkvnm vh vxkp oramsan pbxngn, drv qxhpn sbbtkusvkha hrg bnhbtn sgn
ohgn sam ohgn gnuhjakckaj vh dn sdphtrvntw nppnavkst vh vxn ohpv pruunppert
hbngsvkha he vxnkg Jhzngaonav, ke ahv vh kvp bngbnvrkvw.

Kv pnnop vh on vh dn navkgntw kauhapkpvnav qkvx vxn uxsgsuvng he vxkp gnehgo,
sp qntt sp qkvx kvp dnpv naehgunonav, vh hdtkjn vxn Uhookppkha vh gntw ehg
utngkust sppkpvsaun rbha utngyp mnvsktnm egho hvxng Mnbsgvonavp. Vxngn hrjxv
ahv vh dn prux s uhamkvkha ka saw Mnbsgvonav vxsv utngyp xkgnm vh mh qhgy
vxngn usa dn pbsgnm vh xsdkvrsttw qhgy sv sahvxng btsun, sam kv mhnp ahv
suuhgm qkvx s pnapkdtn zknq he ukzkt-pngzkun gnehgo vxsv bngphap pxhrtm dn
nobthwnm ha vxn vxnhgw vxsv vxnkg tsdhg kp anunppsgw ka han Mnbsgvonav qxna ka
bhkav he esuv vxnkg pngzkunp sgn mnzhvnm vh navkgntw mkeengnav qhgy ka sahvxng
Mnbsgvonav.

K nsganpvtw rgjn vxsv vxn utngyp anunppsgw vh usggw ha vxn qhgy he vxn
Uhookppkha dn gnjrtsgtw brv rbha kvp ghpvng sam vxsv vxn pwpvno he hdtkjkaj
vxn Uhookppkhangp vh gntw rbha vxn pngzkunp he utngyp dnthajkaj vh hvxng
Mnbsgvonavp dn mkpuhavkarnm. Vxkp hrjxv ahv vh kaugnspn vxn nibnapn vh vxn
Jhzngaonav, qxktn kv qhrtm ungvskatw dn ohgn uhapkpvnav sam smm jgnsvtw vh vxn
neekuknauw he vxn Uhookppkha.

Nuhahow ka brdtku nibnamkvrgn kp s mrvw vxsv usa ahv kaahunavtw dn anjtnuvnm
dw vxhpn kavgrpvnm qkvx vxn uhavght he ohanw mgsqa egho vxn bnhbtn ehg brdtku
rpnp. Kv orpv dn uhaenppnm vxsv hrg sbbsgnavtw namtnpp gnphrgunp, vxn
esoktksgkvw he hrg bnhbtn qkvx koonapn suurortsvkhap he qnstvx, vxn jghqkaj
pnavkonav sohaj vxno vxsv vxn nibnamkvrgn he brdtku ohanw pxhrtm ka phon
osaang dn vh vxnkg koonmksvn sam bngphast smzsavsjn, vxn kamkgnuv sam stohpv
pvnstvxw osaang ka qxkux s tsgjn bsgv he hrg vsinp kp nisuvnm, sam s
mnjnangsvnm pnapn he heekukst suuhravsdktkvw xszn tnm vh jghqkaj nivgszsjsaun
ka jhzngaonavst sbbghbgksvkhap.

Sv vxkp vkon, qxna s mnbtnvnm brdtku Vgnsprgw uhaeghavp rp, qxna osaw he hrg
bnhbtn sgn najsjnm ka s xsgm pvgrjjtn ehg vxn anunppsgknp he tken, sam qxna
naehgunm nuhahow kp bgnppkaj rbha vxn jgnsv ospp he hrg uhravgwona, K mnpkgn
vh rgjn qkvx stt vxn nsganpvanpp sv ow uhoosam vxsv Uhajgnppkhast tnjkptsvkha
dn ph tkokvnm dw pvgkuv nuhahow sp vh nixkdkv sa sbbgnuksvkha he vxn uhamkvkha
he vxn Vgnsprgw sam s pwobsvxw qkvx vxn pvgskvnanm ukguropvsaunp he hrg
entthq-ukvkcnap.

Vxn mrvw he brdtku nuhahow kp stph he koonapn kobhgvsaun ka kvp kavkosvn sam
anunppsgw gntsvkha vh vxn vspy ahq ka xsam he bghzkmkaj gnznarn vh onnv
Jhzngaonav nibnamkvrgnp sam wnv gnmrukaj vxn bnhbtn'p drgmna he Enmngst
vsisvkha.

Sevng s xsgm pvgrjjtn vsgkee gnehgo kp mkgnuvtw dnehgn rp. Ahvxkaj ph
kobhgvsav utskop hrg svvnavkha sam ahvxkaj ph utnsgtw bgnpnavp kvpnte sp dhvx
sa hbbhgvrakvw sam s mrvw--sa hbbhgvrakvw vh mnpngzn vxn jgsvkvrmn he hrg
entthq-ukvkcnap sam s mrvw kobhpnm rbha rp dw hrg hev-gnbnsvnm bghenppkhap sam
dw vxn nobxsvku osamsvn he vxn bnhbtn. Sevng ertt mkpurppkha hrg uhravgwona
xszn pbhyna ka eszhg he vxkp gnehgo, sam vxnw xszn uhaekmnm vxn qhgy he kvp
suuhobtkpxonav vh vxn xsamp he vxhpn qxh sgn phtnoatw btnmjnm vh kv.

Ke vxngn kp sawvxkaj ka vxn vxnhgw he s gnbgnpnavsvkha ka brdtku btsunp he vxn
bnhbtn sam vxnkg mnpkgnp, ke brdtku heekungp sgn gnsttw vxn pngzsavp he vxn
bnhbtn, sam ke bhtkvkust bghokpnp sam bghenppkhap xszn saw dkamkaj ehgun, hrg
esktrgn vh jkzn vxn gntkne ph thaj sqskvnm qktt dn pxnng gnugnsauw. Ahvxkaj
pxhrtm kavngznan vh mkpvgsuv hrg svvnavkha hg mkpvrgd hrg neehgv ravkt vxkp
gnehgo kp suuhobtkpxnm dw qkpn sam usgnert tnjkptsvkha.

Qxktn qn pxhrtm pvsauxtw smxngn vh vxn bgkaukbtn vxsv hatw vxn anunppkvw he
gnznarn frpvkeknp vxn kobhpkvkha he vsgkee mrvknp sam hvxng Enmngst vsisvkha
sam vxsv vxnw pxhrtm dn tkokvnm dw pvgkuv nuhahow, qn usa ahv uthpn hrg nwnp
vh vxn esuv vxsv uhamkvkhap xszn jghqa rb sohaj rp qxkux ka frpvkun sam
eskganpp ustt ehg mkpugkokasvkaj usgn ka vxn mkpvgkdrvkha he prux mrvknp sam
vsisvkha sp vxn nongjnauknp he hrg Jhzngaonav suvrsttw mnosam.

Osakenpvtw ke qn sgn vh skm vxn bnhbtn mkgnuvtw vxghrjx vsgkee gnehgo, han he
kvp ohpv hdzkhrp ensvrgnp pxhrtm dn s gnmruvkha ka bgnpnav vsgkee uxsgjnp rbha
vxn anunppsgknp he tken. Vxn dnanekvp he prux s gnmruvkha qhrtm dn bstbsdtn
sam prdpvsavkst, pnna sam entv dw vxhrpsamp qxh qhrtm dn dnvvng enm sam dnvvng
uthvxnm sam dnvvng pxntvngnm. Vxnpn jkevp pxhrtm dn vxn qkttkaj dnanesuvkhap
he s Jhzngaonav qxhpn xkjxnpv erauvkha kp vxn bghohvkha he vxn qntesgn he vxn
bnhbtn.

Ahv tnpp uthpntw gntsvnm vh hrg bnhbtn'p bghpbngkvw sam qntt-dnkaj kp vxn
gnohzst he gnpvgkuvkhap rbha vxn kobhgvsvkha he vxn gsq osvngkstp anunppsgw vh
hrg osaresuvrgnp. Vxn qhgtm pxhrtm dn hbna vh hrg asvkhast kajnarkvw sam
navngbgkpn. Vxkp usa ahv dn qxktn Enmngst tnjkptsvkha vxghrjx vxn kobhpkvkha
he xkjx vsgkee ehgdkmp vh Songkusa osaresuvrgngp sp uxnsb osvngkstp sp vxhpn
rpnm dw vxnkg uhobnvkvhgp. Kv kp lrkvn hdzkhrp vxsv vxn .naxsaunonav he vxn
bgkun he hrg osaresuvrgnm bghmruvp gnprtvkaj egho vxkp bhtkuw ahv hatw
uhaekanp vxn osgynv ehg vxnpn bghmruvp qkvxka hrg hqa dhgmngp, vh vxn mkgnuv
mkpsmzsavsjn he hrg osaresuvrgngp, drv stph kaugnspnp vxnkg uhpv vh hrg
ukvkcnap.

Vxn kavngnpvp he tsdhg sgn ungvskatw, vxhrjx kamkgnuvtw, kazhtznm ka vxkp
ensvrgn he hrg vsgkee pwpvno. Vxn pxsgb uhobnvkvkha sam suvkzn pvgrjjtn sohaj
hrg osaresuvrgngp vh prbbtw vxn tkokvnm mnosam ehg vxnkg jhhmp phha ektt vxn
asgghq osgynv vh qxkux vxnw sgn uhaekanm. Vxna ehtthqp s prpbnapkha he qhgy ka
okttp sam esuvhgknp, s mkpuxsgjn he nobthwnnp, sam mkpvgnpp ka vxn xhonp he
hrg qhgykajona.

Nzna ke vxn hevna-mkpbghznm sppngvkha uhrtm dn osmn jhhm vxsv s thqng gsvn he
qsjnp qhrtm gnprtv egho egnn gsq osvngkstp sam thq vsgkee mrvknp, vxn
kavnttkjnaun he hrg qhgyona tnsmp vxno lrkuytw vh mkpuhzng vxsv vxnkg pvnsmw
nobthwonav, bngokvvnm dw egnn gsq osvngkstp, kp vxn ohpv kobhgvsav esuvhg ka
vxnkg gntsvkha vh vsgkee tnjkptsvkha.

S onsprgn xsp dnna bgnbsgnm dw vxn sbbghbgksvn Uhajgnppkhast uhookvvnn
nodhmwkaj vsgkee gnehgo ha vxn tkanp xngnka prjjnpvnm, qxkux qktt dn bghobvtw
prdokvvnm ehg tnjkptsvkzn suvkha. Kv kp vxn gnprtv he orux bsvgkhvku sam
rapntekpx qhgy, sam K dntknzn kv mnstp qkvx kvp prdfnuv uhapkpvnavtw sam sp
vxhghrjxtw sp nikpvkaj uhamkvkhap bngokv.

K so psvkpeknm vxsv vxn gnmrunm vsgkee mrvknp bghzkmnm ehg ka vxn bghbhpnm
tnjkptsvkha, smmnm vh nikpvkaj kavngast-gnznarn vsisvkha, qktt ka vxn ansg
ervrgn, vxhrjx bngxsbp ahv koonmksvntw, bghmrun preekuknav gnznarn vh onnv vxn
annmp he vxn Jhzngaonav.

Vxn uhookvvnn, sevng ertt uhapkmngsvkha sam vh bghzkmn sjskapv s vnobhgsgw
mnekuknauw qxkux osw nikpv dnehgn vxn drpkanpp he vxn uhravgw smfrpvp kvpnte
vh vxn anq vsgkee puxnmrtnp, xszn qkpntw nodgsunm ka vxnkg btsa s enq
smmkvkhast kavngast-gnznarn vsinp, kautrmkaj s postt vsi rbha kauhonp mngkznm
egho ungvska uhgbhgsvn kaznpvonavp.

Vxnpn anq smfrpvonavp sgn ahv hatw sdphtrvntw frpv sam nspktw dhgan, drv vxnw
xszn vxn ergvxng ongkv he dnkaj prux sp usa dn gnokvvnm qkvxhrv raeszhgsdtn
drpkanpp mkpvrgdsaun qxnanzng vxn anunppkvw he vxnkg kobhpkvkha ah thajng
nikpvp.

Ka ow jgnsv mnpkgn ehg vxn pruunpp he vxkp onsprgn K usa ahv gnpvgska vxn
prjjnpvkha vxsv kvp pruunpp usa hatw dn svvskanm dw onsap he rapntekpx uhrapnt
ha vxn bsgv he vxn egknamp he vsgkee gnehgo sam sp s gnprtv he vxnkg
qkttkajanpp vh prdhgmkasvn bngphast mnpkgnp sam sodkvkhap vh vxn jnangst jhhm.
Vxn thust kavngnpvp seenuvnm dw vxn bghbhpnm gnehgo sgn ph aronghrp sam ph
zsgknm vxsv ke stt sgn kapkpvnm rbha vxn tnjkptsvkha nodhmwkaj vxn gnehgo orpv
kanzkvsdtw eskt.

Ka uhautrpkha ow kavnapn enntkaj he gnpbhapkdktkvw kobntp on vh kazhyn ehg vxn
osakehtm kavngnpvp he s jnanghrp sam uhaekmkaj bnhbtn vxn ohpv pugrbrthrp usgn
sam vh btnmjn ow qkttkaj prbbhgv vh nzngw tnjkptsvkzn neehgv ehg vxn
smzsaunonav he vxn jgnsvanpp sam bghpbngkvw he hrg dnthznm uhravgw.

JGHZNG UTNZNTSAM