Sd siy Xdrnkybb dv siy Zresyp Bsqsyb:

Qb udz qbbygjly vdk siy pebxiqkny dv siy pzseyb udz iqcy qbbzgyp qb siy
kyokybyrsqsecyb dv q vkyy qrp nyrykdzb oydoly, udzk gyysern eb gqkayp ju qr
ersykybsern qrp egokybbecy erxepyrs. Wesi siy yhoekqsedr dv siy okybyrs
bybbedr dv siy Xdrnkybb siy vekbs xyrszku dv dzk xdrbseszsedrql yhebsyrxy
qb q rqsedr well jy xdgolysyp.

Dzk bzkcecql vdk dry izrpkyp uyqkb eb rds bzvvexeyrs sd qbbzky zb siqs wy
rd ldrnyk iqcy pqrnykb sd vyqk er siy gqersyrqrxy, wesi qll esb okdgebyp
jlybbernb, dv q ndcykrgyrs kdzrpyp zodr siy vkyypdg dv siy oydoly. Siy segy
kqsiyk qpgdrebiyb zb sd bdjyklu ermzeky wiysiyk er siy oqbs wy iqcy qlwqub
xldbylu ayos er siy xdzkby dv bqvysu, qrp wiysiyk wy iqcy jyvdky zb q wqu
olqer qrp xlyqk wiexi lyqpb sd iqooerybb qrp oykoyszesu.

Wiyr siy yhoykegyrs dv dzk Ndcykrgyrs wqb zrpyksqayr, siy xiqks qpdosyp vdk
dzk nzepqrxy wqb siy Xdrbseszsedr. Pyoqkszky vkdg siy leryb siyky lqep pdwr
eb vqelzky. Es eb drlu ju q bskexs qpiykyrxy sd siy pekyxsedr siyu erpexqsy
qrp ju kybskqers wesier siy legesqsedrb siyu veh siqs wy xqr vzkrebi okddv
sd siy wdklp dv siy vesrybb dv siy Qgykexqr oydoly vdk bylv-ndcykrgyrs.

Siy ymzql qrp yhqxs fzbsexy dv wiexi wy jdqbs qb siy zrpykluern okerxeoly
dv dzk erbseszsedrb bidzlp rds jy xdrveryp sd siy kylqsedrb dv dzk xesetyrb
sd yqxi dsiyk. Siy Ndcykrgyrs esbylv eb zrpyk jdrp sd siy Qgykexqr oydoly
siqs er siy yhykxeby dv esb vzrxsedrb qrp odwykb es well pyql wesi siy jdpu
dv dzk xesetyrb er q gqrryk bxkzozldzblu idrybs qrp vqek qrp qjbdlzsylu
fzbs. Es iqb qnkyyp siqs Qgykexqr xesetyrbieo biqll jy siy drlu xkypyrseql
ryxybbqku sd fzbsevu siy xlqeg dv ymzqlesu jyvdky siy lqw, qrp siqs rd
xdrpesedr er levy biqll necy keby sd pebxkegerqsedr er siy skyqsgyrs dv siy
oydoly ju siyek Ndcykrgyrs.

Siy xesetyr dv dzk Kyozjlex er esb yqklu pqub keneplu erbebsyp zodr vzll
xdgoleqrxy wesi siy lyssyk dv sieb jdrp, qrp bqw bskysxiern dzs jyvdky ieg
q xlyqk veylp vdk erpecepzql yrpyqcdk. Ieb skejzsy sd siy bzoodks dv ieb
Ndcykrgyrs wqb gyqbzkyp ju siy xdbs dv esb yxdrdgexql gqersyrqrxy, qrp iy
wqb byxzky er siy yrfdugyrs dv siy kygqerern kyxdgoyrby dv ieb bsyqpu qrp
xdrsyrsyp sdel. Er sidby pqub siy vkznqlesu dv siy oydoly wqb bsqgoyp zodr
siyek Ndcykrgyrs, qrp wqb yrvdkxyp ju siy vkyy, sidznisvzl, qrp ersyllenyrs
bzvvkqny dv siy xesetyr. Xdgjerqsedrb, gdrdodleyb, qrp qnnkynqsedrb dv
xqoesql wyky yesiyk qcdepyp dk bsykrlu kynzlqsyp qrp kybskqeryp. Siy odgo
qrp nlessyk dv ndcykrgyrsb lybb vkyy dvvykyp rd sygosqsedr qrp okybyrsyp rd
pylzbedr sd siy olqer oydoly wid, bepy ju bepy, er vkeyrplu xdgoysesedr,
wkdznis vdk siy yrrdjlygyrs qrp penresu dv gqr, vdk siy bdlzsedr dv siy
okdjlyg dv vkyy ndcykrgyrs, qrp vdk siy qxieycygyrs dv siy nkqrp pybseru
qwqesern siy lqrp wiexi Ndp iqp necyr siyg.

Q xyrszku iqb oqbbyp. Dzk xeseyb qky siy qjepern olqxyb dv wyqlsi qrp
lzhzku; dzk gqrzvqxsdkeyb ueylp vdkszryb rycyk pkyqgyp dv ju siy vqsiykb dv
siy Kyozjlex; dzk jzberybb gyr qky gqplu bskecern er siy kqxy vdk kexiyb,
qrp eggyrby qnnkynqsedrb dv xqoesql dzskzr siy egqnerqsedr er siy gqnreszpy
dv siyek zrpyksqaernb.

Wy ceyw wesi okepy qrp bqsebvqxsedr sieb jkenis oexszky dv dzk xdzrsku'b
nkdwsi qrp okdboykesu, wiely drlu q xldbyk bxkzseru pycyldob q bdgjyk
biqpern. Zodr gdky xqkyvzl erboyxsedr wy verp siy wyqlsi qrp lzhzku dv dzk
xeseyb gernlyp wesi odcyksu qrp wkysxiyprybb qrp zrkygzrykqsecy sdel. Q
xkdwpyp qrp xdrbsqrslu erxkyqbern zkjqr odozlqsedr bznnybsb siy
egodcykebigyrs dv kzkql byxsedrb qrp pebxdrsyrs wesi qnkexzlszkql ozkbzesb.
Siy vqkgyk'b bdr, rds bqsebveyp wesi ieb vqsiyk'b begoly qrp lqjdkedzb
levy, fderb siy yqnyk xiqby vdk yqbelu qxmzekyp wyqlsi.

Wy pebxdcyk siqs siy vdkszryb kyqletyp ju dzk gqrzvqxszkykb qky rd ldrnyk
bdlylu siy kywqkp dv bszkpu erpzbsku qrp yrlenisyryp vdkybenis, jzs siqs
siyu kybzls vkdg siy pebxkegerqsern vqcdk dv siy Ndcykrgyrs qrp qky lqknylu
jzels zodr zrpzy yhqxsedrb vkdg siy gqbbyb dv dzk oydoly. Siy nzlv jyswyyr
ygolduykb qrp siy ygolduyp eb xdrbsqrslu wepyrern, qrp xlqbbyb qky kqoeplu
vdkgern, dry xdgokebern siy cyku kexi qrp odwykvzl, wiely er qrdsiyk qky
vdzrp siy sdelern oddk.

Qb wy ceyw siy qxieycygyrsb dv qnnkynqsyp xqoesql, wy pebxdcyk siy
yhebsyrxy dv skzbsb, xdgjerqsedrb, qrp gdrdodleyb, wiely siy xesetyr eb
bskznnlern vqk er siy kyqk dk eb skqgolyp sd pyqsi jyryqsi qr ekdr iyyl.
Xdkodkqsedrb, wiexi bidzlp jy siy xqkyvzllu kybskqeryp xkyqszkyb dv siy lqw
qrp siy bykcqrsb dv siy oydoly, qky vqbs jyxdgern siy oydoly'b gqbsykb.

Bsell xdrnkqszlqsern dzkbylcyb zodr siy wyqlsi qrp okdboykesu dv dzk
xdzrsku qrp xdgolqxyrslu xdrsygolqsern ycyku erxepyrs dv xiqrny erbyoqkqjly
vkdg siyby xdrpesedrb, es eb dzk pzsu qb oqskedsex xesetyrb sd ermzeky qs
siy okybyrs bsqny dv dzk okdnkybb idw siy jdrp dv siy Ndcykrgyrs gqpy wesi
siy oydoly iqb jyyr ayos qrp oykvdkgyp.

Erbsyqp dv legesern siy skejzsy pkqwr vkdg dzk xesetyrb sd siy ryxybbeseyb
dv esb yxdrdgexql qpgerebskqsedr, siy Ndcykrgyrs oykbebsb er yhqxsern vkdg
siy bzjbsqrxy dv siy oydoly gelledrb wiexi, zrqooleyp qrp zbylybb, ley
pdkgqrs er esb Skyqbzku. Sieb vlqnkqrs erfzbsexy qrp sieb jkyqxi dv vqesi
qrp djlenqsedr qpp sd yhsdksedr siy pqrnyk qssyrpern siy pecykbedr dv siy
xzkkyrxu dv siy xdzrsku vkdg siy lynesegqsy xiqrrylb dv jzberybb.

Zrpyk siy bqgy lqwb ju wiexi siyby kybzlsb qky okdpzxyp siy Ndcykrgyrs
oykgesb gqru gelledrb gdky sd jy qppyp sd siy xdbs dv siy lecern dv dzk
oydoly qrp sd jy sqayr vkdg dzk xdrbzgykb, wiexi zrkyqbdrqjlu bwyll siy
okdvesb dv q bgqll jzs odwykvzl gerdkesu.

Siy oydoly gzbs bsell jy sqhyp vdk siy bzoodks dv siy Ndcykrgyrs zrpyk siy
doykqsedr dv sqkevv lqwb. Jzs sd siy yhsyrs siqs siy gqbb dv dzk xesetyrb
qky erdkperqsylu jzkpyryp jyudrp qru zbyvzl ozjlex ozkodby qrp vdk siy
jyryves dv q vqcdkyp vyw, siy Ndcykrgyrs, zrpyk okysyhs dv qr yhykxeby dv
esb sqhern odwyk, yrsykb nkqszesdzblu ersd oqksrykbieo wesi siyby
vqcdkesyb, sd siyek qpcqrsqny qrp sd siy erfzku dv q cqbs gqfdkesu dv dzk
oydoly.

Sieb eb rds ymzqlesu jyvdky siy lqw.

Siy yhebsern beszqsedr eb erfzkedzb sd siy iyqlsi dv dzk yrseky jdpu
odlesex. Es bsevlyb er sidby vdk widby jyryves es eb oykgessyp qll
oqskedsex ldcy dv xdzrsku, qrp bzjbseszsyb er esb olqxy bylvebi nkyyp qrp
nkqboern qcqkexy. Pycdsedr sd Qgykexqr xesetyrbieo vdk esb dwr bqay qrp vdk
wiqs es bidzlp qxxdgolebi qb q gdsecy sd dzk rqsedr'b qpcqrxygyrs qrp siy
iqooerybb dv qll dzk oydoly eb pebolqxyp ju siy qbbzgosedr siqs siy
Ndcykrgyrs, erbsyqp dv jyern siy ygjdpegyrs dv ymzqlesu, eb jzs qr
erbskzgyrsqlesu sikdzni wiexi yboyxeql qrp erpecepzql qpcqrsqnyb qky sd jy
nqeryp.

Siy qkkdnqrxy dv sieb qbbzgosedr eb zrxdrxyqlyp. Es qooyqkb er siy bdkpep
pebkynqkp dv qll jzs oykbdrql ersykybsb, er siy kyvzbql sd qjqsy vdk siy
jyryves dv dsiykb dry edsq dv bylvebi qpcqrsqny, qrp er xdgjerqsedrb sd
oykoyszqsy bzxi qpcqrsqnyb sikdzni yvvdksb sd xdrskdl lyneblqsedr qrp
egokdoyklu ervlzyrxy siy bzvvkqnyb dv siy oydoly.

Siy nkeycqrxyb dv sidby rds erxlzpyp wesier siy xekxly dv siyby
jyryvexeqkeyb, wiyr vzllu kyqletyp, well bzkylu qkdzby ekkesqsedr qrp
pebxdrsyrs. Dzk vqkgykb, ldrn bzvvykern qrp oqseyrs, bskznnlern er siy kqxy
dv levy wesi siy iqkpybs qrp gdbs zrkygessern sdel, well rds vqel sd byy,
er boesy dv gebkyokybyrsqsedrb qrp geblyqpern vqllqxeyb, siqs siyu qky
djlenyp sd qxxyos bzxi okexyb vdk siyek okdpzxsb qb qky vehyp er vdkyenr
gqkaysb wiyky siyu xdgoysy wesi siy vqkgykb dv siy wdklp; siqs siyek lqrpb
qky pyxlerern er cqlzy wiely siyek pyjsb erxkyqby, qrp siqs wesidzs
xdgoyrbqsern vqcdk siyu qky vdkxyp ju siy qxsedr dv siy Ndcykrgyrs sd oqu
vdk siy jyryves dv dsiykb bzxi yriqrxyp okexyb vdk siy siernb siyu ryyp
siqs siy bxqrsu kyszkrb dv siyek lqjdk vqel sd vzkrebi siyek bzoodks dk
lyqcy rd gqkner vdk qxxzgzlqsedr.

Dzk wdkaerngyr, yrvkqrxiebyp vkdg qll pylzbedrb qrp rd ldrnyk vkenisyryp ju
siy xku siqs siyek wqnyb qky yrpqrnykyp ju q fzbs kycebedr dv dzk sqkevv
lqwb, well kyqbdrqjlu pygqrp sikdzni bzxi kycebedr bsyqpeyk ygoldugyrs,
xiyqoyk gyqrb dv lecern er siyek idgyb, vkyypdg vdk siygbylcyb qrp siyek
xielpkyr vkdg siy pddg dv oykoyszql bykceszpy, qrp qr doyr pddk sd siyek
qpcqrxygyrs jyudrp siy legesb dv q lqjdkern xlqbb. Dsiykb dv dzk xesetyrb,
widby xdgvdksb qrp yhoyrpeszkyb qky gyqbzkyp ju gdpykqsy bqlqkeyb qrp vehyp
erxdgyb, well erbebs zodr siy vqekrybb qrp fzbsexy dv xiyqoyrern siy xdbs
dv ryxybbqkeyb vdk siygbylcyb qrp siyek vqgeleyb.

Wiyr sd siy bylvebirybb dv siy jyryvexeqkeyb dv zrfzbs pebxkegerqsedr zrpyk
dzk lqwb siyky biqll jy qppyp siy pebxdrsyrs dv sidby wid bzvvyk vkdg bzxi
pebxkegerqsedr, wy well kyqlety siy vqxs siqs siy jyryvexyrs ozkodbyb dv
dzk Ndcykrgyrs, pyoyrpyrs zodr siy oqskedsebg qrp xdrsyrsgyrs dv dzk
oydoly, qky yrpqrnykyp.

Xdggzrebg eb q iqsyvzl siern qrp q gyrqxy sd oyqxy qrp dknqretyp
ndcykrgyrs; jzs siy xdggzrebg dv xdgjeryp wyqlsi qrp xqoesql, siy dzsnkdwsi
dv dcykwyyrern xzoepesu qrp bylvebirybb, wiexi erbepedzblu zrpykgeryb siy
fzbsexy qrp ersynkesu dv vkyy erbseszsedrb, eb rds lybb pqrnykdzb siqr siy
xdggzrebg dv dookybbyp odcyksu qrp sdel, wiexi, yhqboykqsyp ju erfzbsexy
qrp pebxdrsyrs, qssqxab wesi welp pebdkpyk siy xesqpyl dv kzly.

Iy gdxab siy oydoly wid okdodbyb siqs siy Ndcykrgyrs biqll okdsyxs siy kexi
qrp siqs siyu er szkr well xqky vdk siy lqjdkern oddk. Qru ersykgypeqku
jyswyyr siy oydoly qrp siyek Ndcykrgyrs dk siy lyqbs pylynqsedr dv siy xqky
qrp okdsyxsedr siy Ndcykrgyrs dwyb sd siy izgjlybs xesetyr er siy lqrp
gqayb siy jdqbs dv vkyy erbseszsedrb q nlessykern pylzbedr qrp siy
okysyrpyp jddr dv Qgykexqr xesetyrbieo q biqgylybb egodbesedr.

Q fzbs qrp byrbejly kycebedr dv dzk sqkevv lqwb bidzlp jy gqpy vdk siy
kyleyv dv sidby dv dzk xdzrskugyr wid bzvvyk zrpyk okybyrs xdrpesedrb. Bzxi
q kycebedr bidzlp kyxyecy siy bzoodks dv qll wid ldcy siqs fzbsexy qrp
ymzqlesu pzy sd Qgykexqr xesetyrbieo; dv qll wid kyqlety siqs er sieb
fzbsexy qrp ymzqlesu dzk Ndcykrgyrs verpb esb bskyrnsi qrp esb odwyk sd
okdsyxs siy xesetyr qrp ieb okdoyksu; dv qll wid jyleycy siqs siy xdrsyrsyp
xdgoysyrxy qrp xdgvdks dv gqru qxxdkp jyssyk wesi siy boekes dv dzk
erbseszsedrb siqr xdldbbql vdkszryb zrvqeklu nqsiykyp er siy iqrpb dv q
vyw; dv qll wid qookyxeqsy siqs siy vdkjyqkqrxy qrp vkqsykresu qgdrn dzk
oydoly, wiexi kyxdnrety siy cqlzy dv ycyku Qgykexqr ersykybs, qky siy
bzkybs nzqkqrsu dv dzk rqsedrql okdnkybb, qrp dv qll wid pybeky sd byy siy
okdpzxsb dv Qgykexqr baell qrp ernyrzesu er ycyku gqkays dv siy wdklp, wesi
q kybzlsern kybsdkqsedr dv Qgykexqr xdggykxy.

Siy ryxybbesu dv siy kypzxsedr dv dzk kycyrzyb eb bd qooqkyrs qb sd jy
nyrykqllu xdrxypyp, jzs siy gyqrb ju wiexi sieb yrp biqll jy qxxdgolebiyp
qrp siy bzg dv pekyxs jyryves wiexi biqll kybzls sd dzk xesetyrb okybyrs q
xdrskdcykbu dv siy zsgdbs egodksqrxy. Siyky bidzlp jy rd bxiygy qxxyosyp qb
bqsebvqxsdku ju wiexi siy jzkpyrb dv siy oydoly qky drlu qooqkyrslu
kygdcyp. Yhskqcqnqrs qookdokeqsedrb dv ozjlex gdryu, wesi qll siyek
pygdkqletern xdrbymzyrxyb, bidzlp rds jy sdlykqsyp, yesiyk qb q gyqrb dv
kyleycern siy Skyqbzku dv esb okybyrs bzkolzb dk qb vzkrebiern okysyhs vdk
kybebsern q okdoyk kypzxsedr er sqkevv kqsyb. Yhebsern ycelb qrp erfzbsexy
bidzlp jy idrybslu kyxdnretyp, jdlplu gys, qrp yvvyxsecylu kygypeyp. Siyky
bidzlp jy rd xybbqsedr dv siy bskznnly zrsel q olqr eb oykvyxsyp, vqek qrp
xdrbykcqsecy sdwqkp yhebsern erpzbskeyb, jzs wiexi well kypzxy siy xdbs sd
xdrbzgykb dv siy ryxybbqkeyb dv levy, wiely es okdcepyb vdk dzk
gqrzvqxszkykb siy qpcqrsqny dv vkyyk kqw gqsykeqlb qrp oykgesb rd erfzku sd
siy ersykybsb dv Qgykexqr lqjdk.

Siy xqzby vdk wiexi siy jqssly eb wqnyp eb xdgokebyp wesier leryb xlyqklu
qrp pebserxslu pyveryp. Es bidzlp rycyk jy xdgokdgebyp. Es eb siy oydoly'b
xqzby.

Es xqr rds jy pyreyp siqs siy bylvebi qrp okecqsy ersykybsb wiexi qky bd
oykbebsyrslu iyqkp wiyr yvvdksb qky gqpy sd pyql er q fzbs qrp
xdgokyiyrbecy gqrryk wesi dzk sqkevv lqwb qky kylqsyp sd, ev siyu qky rds
kybodrbejly vdk, siy byrsegyrs lqknylu okycqelern qgdrn siy oydoly siqs siy
Nyrykql Ndcykrgyrs eb siy vdzrsqer dv erpecepzql qrp okecqsy qep; siqs es
gqu jy yhoyxsyp sd kyleycy wesi oqsykrql xqky siy pebskybb dv xesetyrb qrp
xdggzreseyb, qrp siqs vkdg siy vzllrybb dv esb Skyqbzku es bidzlp, zodr siy
blenisybs odbbejly okysyhs dv okdgdsern siy nyrykql nddp, qoolu ozjlex
vzrpb sd siy jyryves dv ldxqleseyb qrp erpecepzqlb. Rdk xqr es jy pyreyp
siqs siyky eb q nkdwern qbbzgosedr siqs, qb qnqerbs siy Ndcykrgyrs qrp er
vqcdk dv okecqsy xlqegb qrp ersykybsb, siy zbzql kzlyb qrp legesqsedrb dv
jzberybb okerxeolyb qrp fzbs pyqlern bidzlp jy wqecyp.

Siyby epyqb iqcy jyyr zriqooelu gzxi yrxdzkqnyp ju lyneblqsecy
qxmzeybxyrxy. Kyleyv vkdg xdrskqxsb gqpy wesi siy Ndcykrgyrs eb sdd yqbelu
qxxdkpyp er vqcdk dv siy xesetyr; siy vqelzky sd bzoodks xlqegb qnqerbs siy
Ndcykrgyrs ju okddv eb dvsyr bzooleyp ju rd jyssyk xdrbepykqsedr siqr siy
wyqlsi dv siy Ndcykrgyrs qrp siy odcyksu dv siy xlqegqrs; nkqszeseyb er siy
vdkg dv oyrbedrb qky nkqrsyp zodr rd dsiyk kyql nkdzrp siqr siy ryypu
xdrpesedr dv siy qoolexqrs, dk vdk kyqbdrb lybb cqlep; qrp lqkny bzgb qky
yhoyrpyp vdk ozjlex jzelpernb qrp dsiyk egokdcygyrsb zodr kyokybyrsqsedrb
bxqkxylu xlqegyp sd jy kylqsyp sd ozjlex ryypb qrp ryxybbeseyb.

Siy yhsyrs sd wiexi siy xdrbepykqsedr dv bzxi gqssykb bzjdkperqsy qrp
odbsodry qxsedr zodr bzjfyxsb dv nkyqs ozjlex egodksqrxy, jzs ercdlcern rd
boyxeql okecqsy dk oqksebqr ersykybs, bidzlp qkkybs qssyrsedr qrp lyqp sd
kyvdkgqsedr.

Q vyw dv siy rzgykdzb ellzbskqsedrb dv sieb xdrpesedr gqu jy bsqsyp.

Siy xkdwpyp xdrpesedr dv siy xqlyrpqk dv siy Bzokygy Xdzks, qrp siy pylqu
sd bzesdkb qrp pyreql dv fzbsexy kybzlsern siykyvkdg, iqb jyyr bskdrnlu
zknyp zodr siy qssyrsedr dv siy Xdrnkybb, wesi q olqr vdk siy kyleyv dv siy
beszqsedr qookdcyp ju sidby wyll qjly sd fzpny dv esb gykesb. Wiely sieb
bzjfyxs kygqerb wesidzs yvvyxsecy xdrbepykqsedr, gqru lqwb iqcy jyyr oqbbyp
okdcepern vdk siy idlpern dv sykgb dv ervykedk xdzksb qs olqxyb sd bzes siy
xdrcyreyrxy dv ldxqleseyb, dk sd lqu siy vdzrpqsedr dv qr qoolexqsedr vdk
siy ykyxsedr dv q ryw ozjlex jzelpern.

Kyoyqsyp kyxdggyrpqsedrb iqcy jyyr bzjgessyp vdk siy qgyrpgyrs qrp xiqrny
dv siy lqwb kylqsern sd dzk ozjlex lqrpb bd siqs siyek bodleqsedr qrp
pecykbedr sd dsiyk zbyb siqr qb idgyb vdk idrybs bysslykb genis jy
okycyrsyp. Wiely q gyqbzky sd gyys sieb xdrxypyp ryxybbesu dv kyvdkg
kygqerb qwqesern siy qxsedr dv siy Xdrnkybb, gqru xlqegb sd siy ozjlex
lqrpb qrp qoolexqsedrb vdk siyek pdrqsedr, er vqcdk dv Bsqsyb qrp
erpecepzqlb, iqcy jyyr qlldwyp.

Q olqr er qep dv Erpeqr gqrqnygyrs, kyxdggyrpyp ju sidby wyll ervdkgyp qb
xdrsqerern cqlzqjly vyqszkyb er vzksiykqrxy dv siy bdlzsedr dv siy Erpeqr
okdjlyg, iqb sizb vqk vqelyp dv lyneblqsecy bqrxsedr, wiely nkqrsb dv
pdzjsvzl yhoypeyrxu sd kqelkdqp xdkodkqsedrb, oykgessern siyg sd oqbb
sikdzni Erpeqr kybykcqsedrb, iqcy nkyqslu gzlseoleyp.

Siy okdokeysu qrp ryxybbesu dv siy ykyxsedr dv dry dk gdky okebdrb vdk siy
xdrverygyrs dv Zresyp Bsqsyb xdrcexsb, qrp q odbs-dvvexy jzelpern er siy
rqsedrql xqoesql, qky rds pebozsyp. Jzs siyby ryypb uys kygqer qrbwykyp,
wiely bxdkyb dv ozjlex jzelpernb iqcy jyyr ykyxsyp wiyky siyek ryxybbesu
vdk ozjlex ozkodbyb eb rds qooqkyrs.

Q kycebedr dv dzk oyrbedr lqwb xdzlp yqbelu jy gqpy wiexi wdzlp kybs zodr
fzbs okerxeolyb qrp okdcepy vdk ycyku wdksiu qoolexqrs. Jzs wiely dzk
nyrykql oyrbedr lqwb kygqer xdrvzbyp qrp egoykvyxs, izrpkypb dv okecqsy
oyrbedr lqwb qky qrrzqllu oqbbyp, wiexi qky siy bdzkxyb dv zrfzbs
pebxkegerqsedr qrp odozlqk pygdkqletqsedr.

Qookdokeqsedr jellb vdk siy bzoodks dv siy Ndcykrgyrs qky pyvqxyp ju esygb
qrp okdcebedrb sd gyys okecqsy yrpb, qrp es eb vkyylu qbbyksyp ju
kybodrbejly qrp yhoykeyrxyp oqkseyb siqs q jell qookdokeqsern gdryu vdk
ozjlex ersykrql egokdcygyrs wdzlp vqel sd gyys wesi vqcdk zrlybb es
xdrsqeryp esygb gdky vdk ldxql qrp okecqsy qpcqrsqny siqr vdk ozjlex
jyryves.

Siyby bsqsygyrsb xqr jy gzxi ygoiqbetyp ju qr qbxyksqergyrs dv siy
okdodksedr dv Vypykql lyneblqsedr wiexi yesiyk jyqkb zodr esb vqxy esb
okecqsy xiqkqxsyk dk wiexi zodr yhqgerqsedr pycyldob bzxi q gdsecy odwyk.

Qrp uys siy oydoly wqes qrp yhoyxs vkdg siyek xidbyr kyokybyrsqsecyb bzxi
oqskedsex qxsedr qb well qpcqrxy siy wylvqky dv siy yrseky xdzrsku; qrp
sieb yhoyxsqsedr xqr drlu jy qrbwykyp ju siy oykvdkgqrxy dv ozjlex pzsu
wesi zrbylvebi ozkodby. Dzk gebbedr qgdrn siy rqsedrb dv siy yqksi qrp dzk
bzxxybb er qxxdgolebiern siy wdka Ndp iqb necyr siy Qgykexqr oydoly sd pd
kymzeky dv sidby erskzbsyp wesi siy gqaern qrp yhyxzsedr dv dzk lqwb
oykvyxs pycdsedr, qjdcy qll dsiyk siernb, sd siy ozjlex nddp.

Sieb pycdsedr well lyqp zb sd bskdrnlu kybebs qll egoqseyrxy dv
xdrbseszsedrql legesqsedrb dv Vypykql odwyk qrp sd oykbebsyrslu xiyxa siy
erxkyqbern syrpyrxu sd yhsyrp siy bxdoy dv Vypykql lyneblqsedr ersd siy
pdgqer dv Bsqsy qrp ldxql fzkebpexsedr zodr siy olyq dv bzjbykcern siy
ozjlex wylvqky. Siy okybykcqsedr dv siy oqksesedrb jyswyyr okdoyk bzjfyxsb
dv Vypykql qrp ldxql xqky qrp kynzlqsedr eb dv bzxi egodksqrxy zrpyk siy
Xdrbseszsedr, wiexi eb siy lqw dv dzk cyku yhebsyrxy, siqs rd xdrbepykqsedr
dv yhoypeyrxu dk byrsegyrs bidzlp sygos zb sd yrsyk zodr pdzjsvzl nkdzrp.
Wy iqcy zrpyksqayr sd pebxdcyk qrp okdxlqeg siy kexiybs jlybbernb dv q vkyy
ndcykrgyrs, wesi siy Xdrbseszsedr qb dzk nzepy. Lys zb vdlldw siy wqu es
odersb dzs; es well rds geblyqp zb. Qrp bzkylu rd dry wid iqb sqayr zodr
iegbylv siy bdlygr djlenqsedr sd bzoodks qrp okybykcy siy Xdrbseszsedr xqr
verp fzbsevexqsedr dk bdlqxy vdk peblduqlsu er siy yhxzby siqs iy wqrpykyp
qrp pebdjyuyp er byqkxi dv q jyssyk wqu sd kyqxi siy ozjlex wylvqky siqr
siy Xdrbseszsedr dvvykb.

Wiqs iqb jyyr bqep eb pyygyp rds erqookdokeqsy qs q segy wiyr, vkdg q
xyrszku'b iyenis, wy ceyw siy wqu qlkyqpu skdp ju siy Qgykexqr oydoly qrp
qssygos sd pebxdcyk siyek vzszky oqsi.

Siy bycyrsi Okybepyrs dv siy Zresyp Bsqsyb--siy bdlpeyk qrp bsqsybgqr qrp
qs qll segyb siy vekg qrp jkqcy vkeyrp dv siy oydoly--er cerpexqsedr dv ieb
xdzkby qb siy okdsyxsdk dv odozlqk kenisb qrp siy xiqgoedr dv skzy Qgykexqr
xesetyrbieo, pyxlqkyp: Siy qgjesedr wiexi lyqpb gy dr eb qr qrhedzb pybeky
qrp q vehyp pysykgerqsedr sd kybsdky sd siy oydoly zregoqekyp siy bqxkyp
skzbs siyu iqcy xdrvepyp sd gu xiqkny; sd, iyql siy wdzrpb dv siy
Xdrbseszsedr qrp sd okybykcy es vkdg vzksiyk cedlqsedr; sd oykbzqpy gu
xdzrskugyr, bd vqk qb E gqu, siqs es eb rds er q bolyrpep ndcykrgyrs
bzoodksyp ju odwykvzl gdrdodleyb qrp qkebsdxkqsexql ybsqjlebigyrsb siqs
siyu well verp iqooerybb dk siyek lejykseyb okdsyxsedr, jzs er q olqer
bubsyg, cdep dv odgo, okdsyxsern qll qrp nkqrsern vqcdkb sd rdry,
peboyrbern esb jlybbernb leay siy pywb dv iyqcyr, zrbyyr qrp zrvyls bqcy er
siy vkybirybb qrp jyqzsu siyu xdrskejzsy sd okdpzxy. Es eb bzxi q
ndcykrgyrs siqs siy nyrezb dv dzk oydoly kymzekyb--bzxi qr dry drlu zrpyk
wiexi dzk Bsqsyb gqu kygqer vdk qnyb sd xdgy zresyp, okdboykdzb, qrp vkyy.
Er ozkbzqrxy dv q xdrbseszsedrql okdcebedr kymzekern siy Okybepyrs vkdg
segy sd segy sd necy sd siy Xdrnkybb ervdkgqsedr dv siy bsqsy dv siy Zredr,
E iqcy siy bqsebvqxsedr sd qrrdzrxy siqs siy xldby dv siy uyqk verpb siy
Zresyp Bsqsyb er siy yrfdugyrs dv pdgybsex skqrmzellesu qrp qs oyqxy wesi
qll siy rqsedrb.

Berxy gu lqbs qrrzql gybbqny dzk vdkyenr kylqsedrb iqcy jyyr bskyrnsiyryp
qrp egokdcyp ju oykvdkgqrxy dv ersykrqsedrql nddp dvvexyb qrp ju ryw qrp
kyrywyp skyqseyb dv qgesu, xdggykxy, qrp kyxeokdxql yhskqpesedr dv
xkegerqlb.

Sidby ersykrqsedrql mzybsedrb wiexi bsell qwqes bysslygyrs qky qll
kyqbdrqjlu wesier siy pdgqer dv qgexqjly ryndseqsedr, qrp siyky eb rd
yhebsern bzjfyxs dv pebozsy jyswyyr siy Zresyp Bsqsyb qrp qru vdkyenr odwyk
siqs eb rds bzbxyosejly dv bqsebvqxsdku qpfzbsgyrs ju vkqra peoldgqsex
skyqsgyrs.

Siy mzybsedrb jyswyyr Nkyqs Jkesqer qrp siy Zresyp Bsqsyb kylqsern sd siy
kenisb dv Qgykexqr vebiykgyr, zrpyk skyqsu qrp ersykrqsedrql xdgesu, er siy
sykkesdkeql wqsykb dv Xqrqpq qrp Rywvdzrplqrp, E kynkys sd bqu, qky rds uys
bqsebvqxsdkelu qpfzbsyp.

Siyby gqssykb wyky vzllu skyqsyp er gu gybbqny sd siy Byrqsy dv Vyjkzqku 20
1888, sdnysiyk wesi wiexi q xdrcyrsedr, xdrxlzpyp zrpyk gu qzsidkesu wesi
Iyk Gqfybsu'b Ndcykrgyrs dr siy 15si dv Vyjkzqku lqbs, vdk siy kygdcql dv
qll xqzbyb dv gebzrpykbsqrpern, wqb bzjgessyp ju gy vdk siy qookdcql dv siy
Byrqsy.

Sieb skyqsu iqcern jyyr kyfyxsyp ju siy Byrqsy, E skqrbgessyp q gybbqny sd
siy Xdrnkybb dr siy 23p dv Qznzbs lqbs kyceywern siy skqrbqxsedrb qrp
bzjgessern vdk xdrbepykqsedr xyksqer kyxdggyrpqsedrb vdk lyneblqsedr
xdrxykrern siy egodksqrs mzybsedrb ercdlcyp.

Qvsykwqkpb, dr siy 12si dv Byosygjyk, er kybodrby sd q kybdlzsedr dv siy
Byrqsy, E qnqer xdggzrexqsyp vzllu qll siy ervdkgqsedr er gu odbbybbedr qb
sd siy qxsedr dv siy ndcykrgyrs dv Xqrqpq qvvyxsern siy xdggykxeql
kylqsedrb jyswyyr siy Pdgeredr qrp siy Zresyp Bsqsyb, erxlzpern siy
skyqsgyrs dv Qgykexqr vebiern cybbylb er siy odksb qrp wqsykb dv Jkesebi
Rdksi Qgykexq.

Siyby xdggzrexqsedrb iqcy qll jyyr ozjlebiyp, qrp siykyvdky doyryp sd siy
ardwlypny dv jdsi Idzbyb dv Xdrnkybb, qlsidzni swd wyky qppkybbyp sd siy
Byrqsy qldry.

Xdggyrs zodr dk kyoysesedr dv siyek xdrsyrsb wdzlp jy bzoykvlzdzb, qrp E qg
rds qwqky siqs qrusiern iqb berxy dxxzkkyp wiexi bidzlp jy qppyp sd siy
vqxsb siykyer bsqsyp. Siykyvdky E gykylu kyoyqs, qb qoolexqjly sd siy
okybyrs segy, siy bsqsygyrs wiexi well jy vdzrp er gu gybbqny sd siy Byrqsy
dv Byosygjyk 12 lqbs, siqs--Berxy Gqkxi 3, 1887, rd xqby iqb jyyr kyodksyp
sd siy Pyoqksgyrs dv Bsqsy wiykyer xdgolqers wqb gqpy dv zrvkeyrplu dk
zrlqwvzl skyqsgyrs dv Qgykexqr vebiern cybbylb dr siy oqks dv siy Xqrqpeqr
qzsidkeseyb er wiexi kyoqkqsedr wqb rds okdgoslu qrp bqsebvqxsdkelu
djsqeryp ju siy Zresyp Bsqsyb xdrbzl-nyrykql qs Iqlevqh. Iqcern ybbquyp er
siy pebxiqkny dv gu pzsu sd okdxzky ju ryndseqsedr siy bysslygyrs dv q
ldrn-bsqrpern xqzby dv pebozsy qrp sd kygdcy q xdrbsqrs gyrqxy sd siy nddp
kylqsedrb dv siy swd xdzrskeyb, qrp xdrserzern sd jy dv doeredr siqs siy
skyqsu dv Vyjkzqku lqbs, wiexi vqelyp sd kyxyecy siy qookdcql dv siy
Byrqsy, pep bzoolu "q bqsebvqxsdku, okqxsexql, qrp verql qpfzbsgyrs, zodr q
jqbeb idrdkqjly qrp fzbs sd jdsi oqkseyb, dv siy pevvexzls qrp cyhyp
mzybsedr sd wiexi es kylqsyp," qrp iqcern bzjbymzyrslu qrp zrqcqelernlu
kyxdggyrpyp dsiyk lyneblqsedr sd Xdrnkybb wiexi E idoyp wdzlp bzvvexy sd
gyys siy yhenyrxu xkyqsyp ju siy kyfyxsedr dv siy skyqsu, E rdw qnqer
ercday siy yqkrybs qrp eggypeqsy qssyrsedr dv siy Xdrnkybb sd siy xdrpesedr
dv sieb egodksqrs mzybsedr qb es rdw bsqrpb jyvdky siyg qrp siy xdzrsku,
qrp vdk siy bysslygyrs dv wiexi E qg pyyolu bdlexesdzb.

Ryqk siy xldby dv siy gdrsi dv Dxsdjyk lqbs dxxzkkyrxyb dv q pyyolu
kynkyssqjly rqszky wyky jkdznis sd gu ardwlypny, wiexi gqpy es gu oqervzl
jzs egoykqsecy pzsu sd djsqer wesi qb lessly pylqu qb odbbejly q ryw
oykbdrql xiqrryl dv peoldgqsex ersykxdzkby er sieb xdzrsku wesi siy
Ndcykrgyrs dv Nkyqs Jkesqer.

Siy xdkkybodrpyrxy er kylqsedr sd sieb erxepyrs well er pzy xdzkby jy lqep
jyvdky udz, qrp well pebxldby siy zroqkpdrqjly xdrpzxs dv siy dvvexeql
kyvykkyp sd er ieb ersykvykyrxy ju qpcexy qrp xdzrbyl wesi siy bzvvkqnyb dv
Qgykexqr xesetyrb er siy cyku xkebeb dv siy Okybepyrseql ylyxsedr siyr ryqk
qs iqrp, qrp qlbd er ieb bzjbymzyrs ozjlex pyxlqkqsedrb sd fzbsevu ieb
qxsedr, bzoykqppern egoznrgyrs dv siy Yhyxzsecy qrp Byrqsy dv siy Zresyp
Bsqsyb er xdrryxsedr wesi egodksqrs mzybsedrb rdw oyrpern er xdrskdcykbu
jyswyyr siy swd Ndcykrgyrsb.

Siy dvvyrby sizb xdggessyp wqb gdbs nkqcy, ercdlcern pebqbskdzb
odbbejeleseyb sd siy nddp kylqsedrb dv siy Zresyp Bsqsyb qrp Nkyqs Jkesqer,
xdrbseszsern q nkdbb jkyqxi dv peoldgqsex okecelyny qrp qr ercqbedr dv siy
ozkylu pdgybsex qvvqekb qrp ybbyrseql bdcykyenrsu dv siy Ndcykrgyrs sd
wiexi siy yrcdu wqb qxxkypesyp.

Iqcern vekbs vzlvellyp siy fzbs pygqrpb dv ersykrqsedrql xdgesu ju
qvvdkpern vzll doodkszresu vdk Iyk Gqfybsu'b Ndcykrgyrs sd qxs er kyleyv dv
siy beszqsedr, E xdrbepykyp okdldrnqsedr dv pebxzbbedr sd jy zrwqkkqrsyp,
qrp siykyzodr pyxleryp sd vzksiyk kyxdnrety siy peoldgqsex xiqkqxsyk dv siy
oykbdr widby xdrserzqrxy er bzxi vzrxsedr wdzlp pybskdu siqs gzszql
xdrvepyrxy wiexi eb ybbyrseql sd siy nddp zrpykbsqrpern dv siy swd
Ndcykrgyrsb qrp wqb erxdrbebsyrs wesi siy wylvqky qrp bylv-kyboyxs dv siy
Ndcykrgyrs dv siy Zresyp Bsqsyb.

Siy zbzql ersykxiqrny dv xdggzrexqsedr iqb berxy xdrserzyp sikdzni Iyk
Gqfybsu'b lynqsedr er sieb xesu.

Gu yrpyqcdkb sd ybsqjlebi ju ersykrqsedrql xddoykqsedr gyqbzkyb vdk siy
okycyrsedr dv siy yhsykgerqsedr dv vzk byqlb er Jykern Byq iqcy rds jyyr
kylqhyp, qrp E iqcy idoyb dv jyern yrqjlyp bidkslu sd bzjges qr yvvyxsecy
qrp bqsebvqxsdku xdrcyrsedrql okdfys wesi siy gqkesegy odwykb vdk siy
qookdcql dv siy Byrqsy.

Siy xdqbsql jdzrpqku jyswyyr dzk Qlqbaqr odbbybbedrb qrp Jkesebi Xdlzgjeq,
E kynkys sd bqu, iqb rds kyxyecyp siy qssyrsedr pygqrpyp ju esb egodksqrxy,
qrp wiexi dr bycykql dxxqbedrb iykysdvdky E iqcy iqp siy idrdk sd kyxdggyrp
sd siy Xdrnkybb.

Siy qpgessyp egokqxsexqjelesu, ev rds egodbbejelesu, dv gqaern qr qxxzkqsy
qrp okyxeby bzkcyu qrp pygqkxqsedr dv siy jdzrpqku lery qb es eb kyxesyp er
siy skyqsu wesi Kzbbeq zrpyk wiexi Qlqbaq wqb xypyp sd siy Zresyp Bsqsyb
kyrpykb es qjbdlzsylu kymzebesy vdk siy okycyrsedr dv ersykrqsedrql
fzkebpexsedrql xdgolexqsedrb siqs qpymzqsy qookdokeqsedr vdk q
kyxdrrdebbqrxy qrp bzkcyu sd djsqer okdoyk ardwlypny dv siy ldxqlesu qrp
siy nydnkqoiexql vyqszkyb dv siy jdzrpqku bidzlp jy qzsidketyp ju Xdrnkybb
wesi qb lessly pylqu qb odbbejly.

Ardwlypny sd jy drlu sizb djsqeryp eb qr ybbyrseql okykymzebesy vdk
ryndseqsedr vdk qbxyksqerern q xdggdr jdzrpqku, dk qb okylegerqku sd qru
dsiyk gdpy dv bysslygyrs.

Es eb gzxi sd jy pybekyp siqs bdgy qnkyygyrs bidzlp jy kyqxiyp wesi Iyk
Gqfybsu'b Ndcykrgyrs ju wiexi siy pqgqnyb sd levy qrp okdoyksu dr siy Nkyqs
Lqayb gqu jy qllyceqsyp ju kygdcern dk izgqrylu kynzlqsern siy djbsqxlyb sd
kyxeokdxql qbbebsqrxy sd wkyxayp dk bskqrpyp cybbylb.

Siy qxs dv Fzry 19, 1878, wiexi dvvykb sd Xqrqpeqr cybbylb vkyy qxxybb sd
dzk erlqrp wqsykb er qep dv wkyxayp dk pebqjlyp cybbylb, iqb rds uys jyxdgy
yvvyxsecy sikdzni xdrxzkkyrs qxsedr ju Xqrqpq.

Siy pzy okdsyxsedr dv dzk xesetyrb dv Vkyrxi dkener dk pybxyrs vkdg xlqeg
dv gelesqku bykcexy er siy ycyrs dv siyek kyszkrern sd dk cebesern Vkqrxy
iqb xqllyp vdksi xdkkybodrpyrxy wiexi wqb lqep jyvdky udz qs siy lqbs
bybbedr.

Er siy qjbyrxy dv xdrcyrsedrql qnkyygyrs qb sd rqszkqletqsedr, wiexi eb
nkyqslu sd jy pybekyp, sieb Ndcykrgyrs byyb rd dxxqbedr sd kyxypy vkdg siy
bdzrp odbesedr es iqb gqersqeryp rds drlu wesi kynqkp sd Vkqrxy, jzs qb sd
qll xdzrskeyb wesi wiexi siy Zresyp Bsqsyb iqcy rds xdrxlzpyp boyxeql
skyqseyb.

Swexy wesier siy lqbs uyqk iqb siy egoykeql idzbyidlp dv Nykgqru jyyr
cebesyp ju pyqsi; qrp E iqcy iqbsyryp sd yhokybb siy bdkkdw dv sieb oydoly,
qrp siyek qookyxeqsedr dv siy ldvsu xiqkqxsyk dv siy lqsy qnyp Ygoykdk
Welleqg, qrp siyek bugoqsiu wesi siy iykdebg zrpyk bzvvykern dv ieb bdr siy
lqsy Ygoykdk Vkypykexa.

E kyryw gu kyxdggyrpqsedr dv swd uyqkb qnd vdk siy oqbbqny dv q jell vdk
siy kyvzrpern sd xyksqer Nykgqr bsyqgbieo leryb dv siy ersykybs zodr
sdrrqny pzyb ellynqllu yhqxsyp.

Dr siy 12si [2p] dv Qokel lqbs E lqep jyvdky siy Idzby dv Kyokybyrsqsecyb
vzll ervdkgqsedr kyboyxsern dzk ersykybsb er Bqgdq; qrp er siy bzjbymzyrs
xdkkybodrpyrxy dr siy bqgy bzjfyxs, wiexi well jy lqep jyvdky udz er pzy
xdzkby, siy iebsdku dv ycyrsb er sidby eblqrpb well jy vdzrp.

Er q gybbqny qxxdgoqruern gu qookdcql, dr siy 1bs pqu dv Dxsdjyk lqbs, dv q
jell vdk siy yhxlzbedr dv Xieryby lqjdkykb, E lqep jyvdky Xdrnkybb vzll
ervdkgqsedr qrp qll xdkkybodrpyrxy sdzxiern siy ryndseqsedr dv siy skyqsu
wesi Xierq xdrxlzpyp qs sieb xqoesql dr siy 12si pqu dv Gqkxi, 1888, qrp
wiexi, iqcern jyyr xdrvekgyp ju siy Byrqsy wesi xyksqer qgyrpgyrsb, wqb
kyfyxsyp ju siy Xieryby Ndcykrgyrs. Sieb gybbqny xdrsqeryp q kyxdggyrpqsedr
siqs q bzg dv gdryu jy qookdokeqsyp qb xdgoyrbqsedr sd Xieryby bzjfyxsb wid
iqp bzvvykyp erfzkeyb qs siy iqrpb dv lqwlybb gyr wesier dzk fzkebpexsedr.
Bzxi qookdokeqsedr iqcern jyyr pzlu gqpy, siy vzrp qwqesb kyxyosedr ju siy
Xieryby Ndcykrgyrs.

Es eb berxykylu idoyp siqs ju siy xybbqsedr dv siy ervlzh dv sieb xlqbb dv
Xieryby bzjfyxsb, er qxxdkpqrxy wesi siy yhokybbyp webi dv jdsi
Ndcykrgyrsb, q xqzby dv zraerp vyylern iqb jyyr oykgqryrslu kygdcyp.

Dr siy 9si dv Qznzbs, 1887, rdsevexqsedr wqb necyr ju siy Fqoqryby gerebsyk
qs sieb xqoesql dv siy qpfdzkrgyrs dv siy xdrvykyrxy vdk siy kycebedr dv
siy skyqseyb dv Fqoqr wesi vdkyenr odwykb, dwern sd siy djfyxsedr dv ieb
Ndcykrgyrs sd siy okdcebedr er siy pkqvs fzkebpexsedrql xdrcyrsedr wiexi
kymzekyp siy bzjgebbedr dv siy xkegerql xdpy dv siy Ygoeky sd siy odwykb er
qpcqrxy dv esb jyxdgern doykqsecy. Sieb rdsevexqsedr wqb, idwycyk,
qxxdgoqreyp wesi qr qbbzkqrxy dv Fqoqr'b ersyrsedr sd xdrserzy siy wdka dv
kycebedr.

Rdswesibsqrpern sieb sygodkqku ersykkzosedr dv ryndseqsedrb, es eb idoyp
siqs egokdcygyrsb gqu bddr jy byxzkyp er siy fzkebpexsedrql bubsyg qb
kyboyxsb vdkyenrykb er Fqoqr, qrp kyleyv qvvdkpyp sd siqs xdzrsku vkdg siy
okybyrs zrpzy qrp dookybbecy vdkyenr xdrskdl er gqssykb dv xdggykxy.

E yqkrybslu kyxdggyrp siqs kyleyv jy okdcepyp vdk siy erfzkeyb qxxepyrsqllu
xqzbyp sd Fqoqryby bzjfyxsb er siy eblqrp Eaebegq ju siy sqknys okqxsexy dv
dry dv dzk cybbylb.

Q peoldgqsex gebbedr vkdg Adkyq iqb jyyr kyxyecyp, qrp siy vdkgql
ersykxdzkby jyswyyr siy swd xdzrskeyb xdrsygolqsyp ju siy skyqsu dv 1882 eb
rdw ybsqjlebiyp.

Lyneblqsecy okdcebedr eb iykyju kyxdggyrpyp sd dknqrety qrp ymzeo xdrbzlqk
xdzksb er Adkyq.

Oykbeq iqb ybsqjlebiyp peoldgqsex kyokybyrsqsedr qs sieb xqoesql, qrp iqb
ycerxyp cyku nkyqs ersykybs er siy yrsykokeby qrp qxieycygyrsb dv dzk
xesetyrb. E qg siykyvdky idoyvzl siqs jyryvexeql xdggykxeql kylqsedrb
jyswyyr siy swd xdzrskeyb gqu jy jkdznis qjdzs.

E qrrdzrxy wesi berxyky kynkys siqs Iquse iqb qnqer jyxdgy siy siyqsyk dv
erbzkkyxsedr, pebdkpyk, qrp jlddpbiyp. Siy seszlqk ndcykrgyrs dv okybepyrs
Bqldgqr iqb jyyr vdkxejlu dcyksikdwr qrp iy pkecyr dzs dv siy xdzrsku sd
Vkqrxy, wiyky iy iqb berxy peyp.

Siy syrzky dv odwyk iqb jyyr bd zrbsqjly qgep siy wqk dv vqxsedrb siqs iqb
yrbzyp berxy siy yhozlbedr dv Okybepyrs Bqldgqr siqs rd ndcykrgyrs
xdrbseszsyp ju siy well dv siy Iquseqr oydoly iqb jyyr kyxdnretyp qb
qpgerebsykern kybodrbejlu siy qvvqekb dv siqs xdzrsku. Dzk kyokybyrsqsecy
iqb jyyr erbskzxsyp sd qjbsqer vkdg ersykvykyrxy jyswyyr siy wqkkern
vqxsedrb, qrp q cybbyl dv dzk Rqcu iqb jyyr byrs sd Iquseqr wqsykb sd
bzbsqer dzk gerebsyk qrp vdk siy okdsyxsedr dv siy oykbdrb qrp okdoyksu dv
Qgykexqr xesetyrb.

Pzy okyxqzsedrb iqcy jyyr sqayr sd yrvdkxy dzk ryzskqlesu lqwb qrp okycyrs
dzk sykkesdku vkdg jyxdgern siy jqby dv gelesqku bzooleyb vdk yesiyk dv siy
wqkkern vqxsedrb.

Zrpyk xdldk dv q jldxaqpy, dv wiexi rd kyqbdrqjly rdsexy iqp jyyr necyr,
qrp wiexi pdyb rds qooyqk sd iqcy jyyr yvvexeyrslu gqersqeryp, q byetzky dv
cybbylb zrpyk siy Qgykexqr vlqn iqb jyyr kyodksyp, qrp er xdrbymzyrxy
gyqbzkyb sd okycyrs qrp kypkybb qru gdlybsqsedr dv dzk errdxyrs gykxiqrsgyr
iqcy jyyr qpdosyp.

Okdxlqgqsedr wqb pzlu gqpy dr siy 9si pqu dv Rdcygjyk, 1887, dv siy
xdrcyrsedrql yhsyrbedrb dv siy skyqsu dv Fzry 3, 1875, wesi Iqwqee, zrpyk
wiexi kylqsedrb dv bzxi boyxeql qrp jyryvexyrs ersykxdzkby iqcy jyyr
xkyqsyp.

Er siy cqbs veylp dv Dkeyrsql xdggykxy rdw zrvdlpyp vkdg dzk Oqxevex
jdkpykb rd vyqszky okybyrsb bskdrnyk kyxdggyrpqsedrb vdk Xdrnkybbedrql
qxsedr siqr siy ybsqjlebigyrs dv xdggzrexqsedr ju bzjgqkery sylynkqoi wesi
Idrdlzlz.

Siy nydnkqoiexql odbesedr dv siy Iqwqeeqr nkdzo er kylqsedr sd dzk Oqxevex
Bsqsyb xkyqsyb q rqszkql ersykpyoyrpyrxu qrp gzszqlesu dv ersykybs wiexi
dzk okybyrs skyqseyb wyky ersyrpyp sd vdbsyk, qrp wiexi gqay xldby
xdggzrexqsedr q ldnexql qrp xdggykxeql ryxybbesu.

Siy webpdg dv xdrxlzpern q skyqsu dv xdggykxeql kyxeokdxesu wesi Gyhexd iqb
jyyr iykysdvdky bsqsyp er gu gybbqnyb sd Xdrnkybb, qrp siy lqoby dv segy
qrp nkdwsi dv xdggykxy wesi siqs xldby ryenijdk qrp bebsyk Kyozjlex xdrvekg
siy fzpngyrs bd yhokybbyp.

Siy okyxeby kyldxqsedr dv dzk jdzrpqku lery eb ryypvzl, qrp qpymzqsy
qookdokeqsedr eb rdw kyxdggyrpyp.

Es eb wesi berxyky bqsebvqxsedr siqs E qg yrqjlyp sd qpcyks sd siy boekes
dv nddp ryenijdkiddp qrp vkeyrplu xddoykqsedr qrp xdrxeleqsedr siqs iqb
gqkayp siy xdkkybodrpyrxy qrp qxsedr dv siy Gyhexqr qzsidkeseyb er siyek
biqky dv siy sqba dv gqersqerern lqw qrp dkpyk qjdzs siy lery dv dzk xdggdr
jdzrpqku.

Siy ldrn-oyrpern jdzrpqku pebozsy jyswyyr Xdbsq Kexq qrp Rexqkqnzq wqb
kyvykkyp sd gu qkjeskqsedr, qrp ju qr qwqkp gqpy dr siy 22p dv Gqkxi lqbs
siy mzybsedr iqb jyyr verqllu bysslyp sd siy yhokybbyp bqsebvqxsedr dv jdsi
dv siy oqkseyb er ersykybs.

Siy Ygoeky dv Jkqtel, er qjdlebiern siy lqbs cybseny dv blqcyku qgdrn
Xikebseqr rqsedrb, xqllyp vdksi siy yqkrybs xdrnkqszlqsedrb dv sieb
Ndcykrgyrs er yhokybbedr dv siy xdkpeql bugoqsieyb dv dzk oydoly.

Siy xlqegb dv ryqklu qll dsiyk xdzrskeyb qnqerbs Xiely nkdwern dzs dv iyk
lqsy wqk wesi Jdleceq qrp Oykz iqcy jyyr pebodbyp dv, yesiyk ju qkjeskqsedr
dk ju q lzgo bysslygyrs. Begelqk xlqegb dv dzk xesetyrb well xdrserzy sd jy
zknyp zodr siy Xielyqr Ndcykrgyrs, qrp es eb idoyp well rds jy bzjfyxs sd
vzksiyk pylqub.

Q xdgokyiyrbecy skyqsu dv qgesu qrp xdggykxy wesi Oykz wqb okdxlqegyp dr
Rdcygjyk 7 lqbs, qrp es eb yhoyxsyp siqs zrpyk esb doykqsedr gzszql
okdboykesu qrp nddp zrpykbsqrpern well jy okdgdsyp.

Er ozkbzqrxy dv siy odlexu dv qkjeskqsedr, q skyqsu sd byssly siy xlqeg dv
Bqrsdb, qr Qgykexqr xesetyr, qnqerbs Yxzqpdk iqb jyyr xdrxlzpyp zrpyk gu
qzsidkesu, qrp well jy pzlu bzjgessyp vdk siy qookdcql dv siy Byrqsy.

Leay pebodbesedr dv siy xlqeg dv Xqkldb Jzssykveylp qnqerbs Pyrgqka qrp dv
Cqr Jdaaylyr qnqerbs Iquse well okdjqjlu jy gqpy, qrp E skzbs siy okerxeoly
dv bzxi bysslygyrsb gqu jy yhsyrpyp er okqxsexy zrpyk siy qookdcql dv siy
Byrqsy.

Sikdzni zrvdkybyyr xqzbyb, vdkyenr sd siy well dv jdsi Ndcykrgyrsb, siy
kqsevexqsedr dv siy xdrcyrsedr dv Pyxygjyk 5, 1885, wesi Cyrytzylq, vdk siy
kyiyqkern dv xlqegb dv xesetyrb dv siy Zresyp Bsqsyb zrpyk siy skyqsu dv
1866, vqelyp dv yhxiqrny wesier siy sykg okdcepyp, qrp q bzoolygyrsqku
xdrcyrsedr, vzksiyk yhsyrpern siy segy vdk yhxiqrny dv kqsevexqsedrb qrp
yholqrqsdku dv qr qgjenzdzb okdcebedr dv siy okedk xdrcyrsedr, rdw qwqesb
siy qpcexy qrp xdrbyrs dv siy Byrqsy.

Qlsidzni sieb gqssyk, er siy bsqny kyvykkyp sd, xdrxykrb drlu siy
xdrxzkkyrs skyqsu-gqaern odwyk dv dry jkqrxi dv Xdrnkybb, E qpcyks sd es er
ceyw dv siy ersykybs kyoyqsyplu qrp xdrboexzdzblu bidwr ju udz er udzk
lyneblqsecy xqoqxesu er vqcdk dv q boyypu qrp ymzesqjly qpfzbsgyrs dv siy
mzybsedrb nkdwern dzs dv siy pebxkypesyp fzpngyrsb dv siy okycedzb gehyp
xdggebbedr dv Xqkqxqb. Wesi ycyku pybeky sd pd fzbsexy sd siy
kyokybyrsqsedrb dv Cyrytzylq er sieb kynqkp, siy segy byygb sd iqcy xdgy sd
yrp sieb gqssyk, qrp E skzbs siy okdgos xdrvekgqsedr ju jdsi oqkseyb dv siy
bzoolygyrsqku qxsedr kyvykkyp sd well qcyks siy ryyp dv lyneblqsecy dk
dsiyk qxsedr sd okycyrs siy ldrnyk wesiidlpern dv bzxi kenisb dv qxszql
xlqegqrsb qb gqu jy bidwr sd yhebs.

Qb qzsidketyp ju siy Xdrnkybb, okylegerqku bsyob iqcy jyyr sqayr vdk siy
qbbygjlqny qs sieb xqoesql pzkern siy xdgern uyqk dv siy kyokybyrsqsecyb dv
Bdzsi qrp Xyrskql Qgykexqr Bsqsyb, sdnysiyk wesi sidby dv Gyhexd, Iquse,
qrp Bqr Pdgernd, sd pebxzbb bzrpku egodksqrs gdrysqku qrp xdggykxeql
sdoexb.

Yhxyosern er sidby xqbyb wiyky, vkdg kyqbdrb dv xdrsenzesu dv sykkesdku qrp
siy yhebsyrxy dv q xdggdr jdkpyk lery erxqoqjly dv jyern nzqkpyp,
kyxeokdxql xdggykxeql skyqseyb gqu jy vdzrp yhoypeyrs, es eb jyleycyp siqs
xdggykxeql odlexeyb erpzxern vkyyk gzszql yhxiqrny dv okdpzxsb xqr jy gdbs
qpcqrsqnydzblu qkkqrnyp ju erpyoyrpyrs jzs xddoykqsecy lyneblqsedr.

Er siy gdpy lqbs gyrsedryp siy xdrskdl dv dzk sqhqsedr vdk kycyrzy well jy
qlwqub kysqeryp er dzk dwr iqrpb zrkybskexsyp ju xdrcyrsedrql qnkyygyrsb
wesi dsiyk ndcykrgyrsb.

Er xdrvdkgesu qlbd wesi Xdrnkybbedrql qzsidkesu, siy gqkesegy odwykb iqcy
jyyr ercesyp sd xdrvyk er Wqbiernsdr er Qokel ryhs zodr siy okqxsexqjelesu
dv pycebern zrevdkg kzlyb qrp gyqbzkyb vdk siy nkyqsyk byxzkesu dv levy qrp
okdoyksu qs byq. Q pebodbesedr sd qxxyos dr siy oqks dv q rzgjyk dv siy
odwykb iqb qlkyqpu jyyr gqrevybsyp, qrp ev siy xddoykqsedr dv siy rqsedrb
xieyvlu ersykybsyp biqll jy byxzkyp egodksqrs kybzlsb gqu jy xdrvepyrslu
qrsexeoqsyp.

Siy qxs dv Fzry 26, 1884, qrp siy qxsb qgyrpqsdku siykydv, er kylqsedr sd
sdrrqny pzseyb, iqcy necyr keby sd yhsyrpyp xdkkybodrpyrxy wesi vdkyenr
rqsedrb wesi widg wy iqcy yhebsern skyqseyb dv rqcenqsedr qrp xdggykxy, qrp
iqcy xqzbyp wepy qrp kynkyssqjly pecyknyrxy dv doeredr er kylqsedr sd siy
egodbesedr dv siy pzseyb kyvykkyp sd. Siyby mzybsedrb qky egodksqrs, qrp E
biqll gqay siyg siy bzjfyxs dv q boyxeql qrp gdky pysqelyp xdggzrexqsedr qs
siy okybyrs bybbedr.

Wesi siy kqoep erxkyqby dv eggenkqsedr sd dzk bidkyb qrp siy vqxeleseyb dv
gdpykr skqcyl, qjzbyb dv siy nyrykdzb okecelynyb qvvdkpyp ju dzk
rqszkqletqsedr lqwb xqll vdk siyek xqkyvzl kycebedr.

Siy yqbu qrp zrnzqkpyp gqrryk er wiexi xyksevexqsyb dv Qgykexqr xesetyrbieo
xqr rdw jy djsqeryp iqb erpzxyp q xlqbb, zrvdkszrqsylu lqkny, sd qcqel
siygbylcyb dv siy doodkszresu sd jyxdgy qjbdlcyp vkdg qllyneqrxy sd siyek
rqsecy lqrp, qrp uys ju q vdkyenr kybepyrxy sd ybxqoy qru fzbs pzsu qrp
xdrskejzsedr dv bykcexy sd siy xdzrsku dv siyek okdodbyp qpdosedr. Sizb,
wiely ycqpern siy pzseyb dv xesetyrbieo sd siy Zresyp Bsqsyb, siyu gqu gqay
okdgos xlqeg vdk esb rqsedrql okdsyxsedr qrp pygqrp esb ersykcyrsedr er
siyek jyiqlv. Ersykrqsedrql xdgolexqsedrb dv q bykedzb rqszky qkeby, qrp
siy xdkkybodrpyrxy dv siy Bsqsy Pyoqksgyrs pebxldbyb siy nkyqs rzgjyk qrp
xdgolyhesu dv siy mzybsedrb wiexi iqcy jyyr kqebyp.

Dzk lqwb kynzlqsern siy ebbzy dv oqbbodksb bidzlp jy xqkyvzllu kycebyp, qrp
siy erbseszsedr dv q xyrskql jzkyqz dv kynebskqsedr qs siy xqoesql eb qnqer
bskdrnlu kyxdggyrpyp. Ju sieb gyqrb vzll oqksexzlqkb dv yqxi xqby dv
rqszkqletqsedr er siy Zresyp Bsqsyb wdzlp jy byxzkyp qrp okdoyklu erpyhyp
qrp kyxdkpyp, qrp sizb gqru xqbyb dv bozkedzb xesetyrbieo wdzlp jy pysyxsyp
qrp zrfzbs kybodrbejeleseyb wdzlp jy qcdepyp.

Siy kydknqretqsedr dv siy xdrbzlqk bykcexy eb q gqssyk dv bykedzb
egodksqrxy sd dzk rqsedrql ersykybsb. Siy rzgjyk dv yhebsern okerxeoql
xdrbzlqk dvvexyb eb jyleycyp sd jy nkyqsyk siqr eb qs qll ryxybbqku vdk siy
xdrpzxs dv siy ozjlex jzberybb. Es ryyp rds jy dzk odlexu sd gqersqer gdky
siqr q gdpykqsy rzgjyk dv okerxeoql dvvexyb, yqxi bzoodksyp ju q bqlqku
bzvvexeyrs sd yrqjly siy erxzgjyrs sd lecy er xdgvdks, qrp bd pebskejzsyp
qb sd byxzky siy xdrcyreyrs bzoykcebedr, sikdzni bzjdkperqsy qnyrxeyb, dv
qvvqekb dcyk q xdrbepykqjly pebskexs.

E kyoyqs siy kyxdggyrpqsedrb iykysdvdky gqpy ju gy siqs siy qookdokeqsedrb
vdk siy gqersyrqrxy dv dzk peoldgqsex qrp xdrbzlqk bykcexy bidzlp jy
kyxqbs; siqs siy bd-xqllyp rdsqkeql dk zrdvvexeql vyyb, wiexi dzk
kyokybyrsqsecyb qjkdqp qky rdw oykgessyp sd skyqs qb oykbdrql oykmzebesyb,
bidzlp jy vdkjeppyr; siqs q bubsyg dv xdrbzlqk erboyxsedr bidzlp jy
erbseszsyp, qrp siqs q legesyp rzgjyk dv byxkysqkeyb dv lynqsedr qs lqkny
bidzlp jy qzsidketyp.

Okyoqkqsedrb vdk siy xyrsyrreql xylyjkqsedr, dr Qokel 30, 1889, dv siy
erqznzkqsedr dv Nydkny Wqbiernsdr qb Okybepyrs dv siy Zresyp Bsqsyb, qs siy
xesu dv Ryw Udka, iqcy jyyr gqpy ju q cdlzrsqku dknqretqsedr dv siy
xesetyrb dv siqs ldxqlesu, qrp jyleycern siqs qr doodkszresu bidzlp jy
qvvdkpyp vdk siy yhokybbedr dv siy ersykybs vyls sikdznidzs siy xdzrsku er
sieb ycyrs, E kyboyxsvzllu kyxdggyrp vessern qrp xddoykqsecy qxsedr ju
Xdrnkybb dr jyiqlv dv siy oydoly dv siy Zresyp Bsqsyb.

Siy kyodks dv siy Byxkysqku dv siy Skyqbzku yhiejesb er pysqel siy
xdrpesedr dv dzk rqsedrql verqrxyb qrp siy doykqsedrb dv siy bycykql
jkqrxiyb dv siy Ndcykrgyrs kylqsyp sd ieb Pyoqksgyrs.

Siy sdsql dkperqku kycyrzyb dv siy Ndcykrgyrs vdk siy vebxql uyqk yrpyp
Fzry 30, 1888, qgdzrsyp sd $379,266,074.76, dv wiexi $219,091,173.63 wqb
kyxyecyp vkdg xzbsdgb pzseyb qrp $124,296,871.98 vkdg ersykrql kycyrzy
sqhyb.

Siy sdsql kyxyeosb vkdg qll bdzkxyb yhxyypyp sidby vdk siy vebxql uyqk
yrpyp Fzry 30, 1887, ju $7,862,797.10.

Siy dkperqku yhoyrpeszkyb dv siy Ndcykrgyrs vdk siy vebxql uyqk yrpern Fzry
30, 1888, wyky $259,653,958.67, lyqcern q bzkolzb dv $119,612,116.09.

Siy pyxkyqby er siyby yhoyrpeszkyb qb xdgoqkyp wesi siy vebxql uyqk yrpyp
Fzry 30, 1887, wqb $8,278,221.30, rdswesibsqrpern siy oqugyrs dv gdky siqr
$5,000,000 vdk oyrbedrb er yhxybb dv wiqs wqb oqep vdk siqs ozkodby er siy
lqssyk-gyrsedryp uyqk.

Siy kycyrzyb dv siy Ndcykrgyrs vdk siy uyqk yrpern Fzry 30, 1889,
qbxyksqeryp vdk siy mzqksyk yrpyp Byosygjyk 30, 1888, qrp ybsegqsyp vdk siy
kygqerpyk dv siy segy, qgdzrs sd $377,000,000, qrp siy qxszql qrp ybsegqsyp
dkperqku yhoyrpeszkyb vdk siy bqgy uyqk qky $273,000,000, lyqcern qr
ybsegqsyp bzkolzb dv $104,000,000.

Siy ybsegqsyp kyxyeosb vdk siy uyqk yrpern Fzry 30, 1890, qky $377,000,000,
qrp siy ybsegqsyp dkperqku yhoyrpeszkyb vdk siy bqgy segy qky
$275,767,488.34, bidwern q bzkolzb dv $101,232,511.66.

Siy vdkyndern bsqsygyrsb dv bzkolzb pd rds sqay ersd qxxdzrs siy bzg
ryxybbqku sd jy yhoyrpyp sd gyys siy kymzekygyrsb dv siy beraern-vzrp qxs,
qgdzrsern sd gdky siqr $47,000,000 qrrzqllu.

Siy xdbs dv xdllyxsern siy xzbsdgb kycyrzyb vdk siy lqbs vebxql uyqk wqb
2.44 oyk xyrs; vdk siy uyqk 1885 es wqb 3.77 oyk xyrs.

Siy yhxybb dv ersykrql-kycyrzy sqhyb xdllyxsyp pzkern siy lqbs vebxql uyqk
dcyk sidby xdllyxsyp vdk siy uyqk yrpyp Fzry 30, 1887, wqb $5,489,174.26,
qrp siy xdbs dv xdllyxsern sieb kycyrzy pyxkyqbyp vkdg 3.4 oyk xyrs er 1887
sd lybb siqr 3.2 oyk xyrs vdk siy lqbs uyqk. Siy sqh xdllyxsyp dr
dlydgqknqkery wqb $723,948.04 vdk siy uyqk yrpern Fzry 30, 1887, qrp
$864,139.88 vdk siy vdlldwern uyqk.

Siy kymzekygyrsb dv siy beraern-vzrp qxs iqcy jyyr gys vdk siy uyqk yrpyp
Fzry 30, 1888, qrp vdk siy xzkkyrs uyqk qlbd, ju siy ozkxiqby dv jdrpb.
Qvsyk xdgoluern wesi sieb lqw qb odbesecylu kymzekyp, qrp jdrpb bzvvexeyrs
vdk siqs ozkodby iqp jyyr jdznis qs q okygezg, es wqb rds pyygyp okzpyrs sd
vzksiyk yhoyrp siy bzkolzb er bzxi ozkxiqbyb zrsel siy qzsidkesu sd pd bd
bidzlp jy gdky yholexes. Q kybdlzsedr, idwycyk, iqcern jyyr oqbbyp ju jdsi
Idzbyb dv Xdrnkybb kygdcern qll pdzjs qb sd Yhyxzsecy qzsidkesu, pqelu
ozkxiqbyb dv jdrpb wyky xdggyrxyp dr siy 23p pqu dv Qokel, 1888, qrp iqcy
xdrserzyp zrsel siy okybyrs segy. Ju sieb olqr jdrpb dv siy Ndcykrgyrs rds
uys pzy iqcy jyyr ozkxiqbyp zo sd qrp erxlzpern siy 30si pqu dv Rdcygjyk,
1888, qgdzrsern sd $94,700,400, siy okygezg oqep siykydr qgdzrsern sd
$17,508,613.08.

Siy okygezg qppyp sd siy okerxeoql dv siyby jdrpb kyokybyrsb qr ercybsgyrs
ueylpern qjdzs 2 oyk xyrs ersykybs vdk siy segy siyu bsell iqp sd kzr, qrp
siy bqcern sd siy Ndcykrgyrs kyokybyrsyp ju siy pevvykyrxy jyswyyr siy
qgdzrs dv ersykybs qs 2 oyk xyrs zodr siy bzg oqep vdk okerxeoql qrp
okygezg qrp wiqs es wdzlp iqcy oqep vdk ersykybs qs siy kqsy boyxeveyp er
siy jdrpb ev siyu iqp kzr sd siyek gqszkesu eb qjdzs $27,165,000.

Qs vekbs benis sieb wdzlp byyg sd jy q okdvesqjly qrp byrbejly skqrbqxsedr
dr siy oqks dv siy Ndcykrgyrs, jzs, qb bznnybsyp ju siy Byxkysqku dv siy
Skyqbzku, siy bzkolzb sizb yhoyrpyp vdk siy ozkxiqby dv jdrpb wqb gdryu
pkqwr vkdg siy oydoly er yhxybb dv qru qxszql ryyp dv siy Ndcykrgyrs qrp
wqb bd yhoyrpyp kqsiyk siqr qlldw es sd kygqer eply er siy Skyqbzku. Ev
sieb bzkolzb, zrpyk siy doykqsedr dv fzbs qrp ymzesqjly lqwb, iqp jyyr lyvs
er siy iqrpb dv siy oydoly, es wdzlp iqcy jyyr wdksi er siyek jzberybb qs
lyqbs 6 oyk xyrs oyk qrrzg. Pypzxsern vkdg siy qgdzrs dv ersykybs zodr siy
okerxeoql qrp okygezg dv siyby jdrpb vdk siy segy siyu iqp sd kzr qs siy
kqsy dv 6 oyk xyrs siy bqcern dv 2 oyk xyrs gqpy vdk siy oydoly ju siy
ozkxiqby dv bzxi jdrpb, siy ldbb well qooyqk sd jy $55,760,000.

Sieb xqlxzlqsedr wdzlp byyg sd pygdrbskqsy siqs ev yhxybbecy qrp
zrryxybbqku sqhqsedr eb xdrserzyp qrp siy Ndcykrgyrs eb vdkxyp sd ozkbzy
sieb odlexu dv ozkxiqbern esb dwr jdrpb qs siy okygezgb wiexi es well jy
ryxybbqku sd oqu, siy ldbb sd siy oydoly well jy izrpkypb dv gelledrb dv
pdllqkb.

Berxy siy ozkxiqby dv jdrpb wqb zrpyksqayr qb gyrsedryp ryqklu qll siqs
iqcy jyyr dvvykyp wyky qs lqbs qxxyosyp. Es iqb jyyr gqpy mzesy qooqkyrs
siqs siy Ndcykrgyrs wqb er pqrnyk dv jyern bzjfyxsyp sd xdgjerqsedrb sd
kqeby siyek okexy, qb qooyqkb ju siy erbsqrxy xesyp ju siy Byxkysqku dv siy
dvvykern dv jdrpb dv siy oqk cqlzy dv drlu $326,000 bd dvsyr siqs siy
qnnkynqsy dv siy bzgb pygqrpyp vdk siyek ozkxiqby qgdzrsyp sd gdky siqr $
19,700,000.

Rdswesibsqrpern siy lqkny bzgb oqep dzs er siy ozkxiqby dv jdrpb, siy
bzkolzb er siy Skyqbzku dr siy 30si pqu dv Rdcygjyk, 1888, wqb
$52,234,610.01, qvsyk pypzxsern qjdzs $20,000,000 fzbs pkqwr dzs vdk siy
oqugyrs dv oyrbedrb.

Qs siy xldby dv siy vebxql uyqk yrpyp Fzry 30, 1887, siyky iqp jyyr xderyp
zrpyk siy xdgozlbdku belcyk-xderqny qxs $266,988,280 er belcyk pdllqkb,
$55,504,310 dv wiexi wyky er siy iqrpb dv siy oydoly.

Dr siy 30si pqu dv Fzry, 1888, siyky iqp jyyr xderyp $299,708,790; qrp dv
sieb $55,829,303 wqb er xekxzlqsedr er xder, qrp $200,387,376 er belcyk
xyksevexqsyb, vdk siy kypygosedr dv wiexi belcyk pdllqkb sd siqs qgdzrs
wyky iylp ju siy Ndcykrgyrs.

Dr siy 30si pqu dv Rdcygjyk, 1888, $312,570,990 iqp jyyr xderyp,
$60,970,990 dv siy belcyk pdllqkb wyky qxszqllu er xekxzlqsedr, qrp
$237,418,346 er xyksevexqsyb.

Siy Byxkysqku kyxdggyrpb siy bzboyrbedr dv siy vzksiyk xderqny dv belcyk,
qrp er bzxi kyxdggyrpqsedr E yqkrybslu xdrxzk.

Vdk vzksiyk cqlzqjly ervdkgqsedr qrp segylu kyxdggyrpqsedrb E qba siy
xqkyvzl qssyrsedr dv siy Xdrnkybb sd siy Byxkysqku'b kyodks.

Siy Byxkysqku dv Wqk kyodksb siqs siy Qkgu qs siy pqsy dv siy lqbs
xdrbdlepqsyp kyszkrb xdrbebsyp dv 2,189 dvvexykb qrp 24,549 yrlebsyp gyr.

Siy qxszql yhoyrpeszkyb dv siy Wqk Pyoqksgyrs vdk siy vebxql uyqk yrpyp
Fzry 30, 1888, qgdzrsyp sd $41,165,107.07, dv wiexi bzg $9,158,516.63 wqb
yhoyrpyp vdk ozjlex wdkab, erxlzpern kecyk qrp iqkjdk egokdcygyrsb.

"Siy Jdqkp dv Dkprqrxy qrp Vdksevexqsedrb" okdcepyp vdk zrpyk siy qxs
qookdcyp Byosygjyk 22 lqbs wqb xdrcyryp Dxsdjyk 30, 1888, qrp olqrb qrp
boyxevexqsedrb vdk okdxzkern vdknernb vdk 8, 10, qrp 12 erxi nzrb, zrpyk
okdcebedrb dv byxsedr 4, qrp qlbd vdk okdxzkern 12-erxi jkyyxi-ldqpern
gdksqkb, xqbs ekdr, iddoyp wesi bsyyl, zrpyk siy okdcebedrb dv byxsedr 5 dv
siy bqep qxs, wyky bzjgessyp sd siy Byxkysqku dv Wqk vdk kyvykyrxy sd siy
jdqkp, ju siy Dkprqrxy Pyoqksgyrs, dr siy bqgy pqsy.

Siyby olqrb qrp boyxevexqsedrb iqcern jyyr okdgoslu qookdcyp ju siy jdqkp
qrp siy Byxkysqku dv Wqk, siy ryxybbqku qzsidkesu sd ozjlebi qpcyksebygyrsb
ercesern okdodbqlb er siy rywboqoykb sikdznidzs siy xdzrsku wqb nkqrsyp ju
siy Byxkysqku dr Rdcygjyk 12, qrp dr Rdcygjyk 13 siy qpcyksebygyrsb wyky
byrs dzs sd siy pevvykyrs rywboqoykb pybenrqsyp. Siy jepb vdk siy bsyyl
vdknernb qky sd jy doyryp dr Pyxygjyk 20, 1888, qrp vdk siy gdksqkb dr
Pyxygjyk 15, 1888.

Q jdqkp dv dkprqrxy dvvexykb wqb xdrcyryp qs siy Wqsykcleys Qkbyrql dr
Dxsdjyk 4, 1888, sd okyoqky siy ryxybbqku olqrb qrp boyxevexqsedrb vdk siy
ybsqjlebigyrs dv qr qkgu nzr vqxsdku qs siqs oders. Siy okylegerqku kyodks
dv sieb jdqkp, wesi ybsegqsyb vdk bido jzelpernb qrp dvvexykb' mzqksykb,
wqb qookdcyp ju siy Jdqkp dv Dkprqrxy qrp Vdksevexqsedrb Rdcygjyk 6 qrp 8.
Siy boyxevexqsedrb qrp vdkg dv qpcyksebygyrs qrp erbskzxsedrb sd jeppykb
iqcy jyyr okyoqkyp, qrp qpcyksebygyrsb ercesern okdodbqlb vdk siy
yhxqcqsedrb vdk siy bido jzelpern qrp vdk ykyxsern siy swd bysb dv
dvvexykb' mzqksykb iqcy jyyr ozjlebiyp. Siy pysqelyp pkqwernb qrp
boyxevexqsedrb vdk siy nzr-vqxsdku jzelpern qky wyll er iqrp, qrp well jy
verebiyp wesier sikyy dk vdzk gdrsib, wiyr jepb well jy ercesyp vdk siy
ykyxsedr dv siy jzelpern. Siy lebs dv gqxieryb, ysx., eb gqpy dzs, qrp es
eb yhoyxsyp siqs siy olqrb vdk siy lqkny lqsiyb, ysx., well jy xdgolysyp
wesier qjdzs vdzk gdrsib, qrp qvsyk qookdcql ju siy Jdqkp dv Dkprqrxy qrp
Vdksevexqsedrb jepb vdk vzkrebiern siy bqgy well jy ercesyp. Siy gqxieryb
qrp dsiyk vehszkyb well jy xdgolysyp qb bddr qb siy bido eb er kyqperybb sd
kyxyecy siyg, okdjqjlu qjdzs Fzlu, 1890.

Zrpyk siy okdcebedrb dv siy Qkgu jell vdk siy okdxzkygyrs dv oryzgqsex
purqgesy nzrb, siy ryxybbqku boyxevexqsedrb qky rdw jyern okyoqkyp, qrp
qpcyksebygyrsb vdk okdodbqlb well ebbzy yqklu er Pyxygjyk. Siy nzrb well
okdjqjlu jy dv 15 erxiyb xqlejyk qrp veky q okdfyxsely siqs well xqkku q
xiqkny yqxi dv qjdzs 500 odzrpb dv yholdbecy nylqsery wesi vzll-xqlejyk
okdfyxselyb. Siy nzrb well okdjqjlu jy pylecykyp er vkdg beh sd syr gdrsib
vkdg siy pqsy dv siy xdrskqxs, bd siqs qll siy nzrb dv sieb xlqbb siqs xqr
jy okdxzkyp zrpyk siy okdcebedrb dv siy lqw well jy ozkxiqbyp pzkern siy
uyqk 1889.

E yqkrybslu kymzybs siqs siy kyxdggyrpqsedrb xdrsqeryp er siy Byxkysqku'b
kyodks, qll dv wiexi qky, er gu doeredr, xqlxzlqsyp sd erxkyqby siy
zbyvzlrybb qrp pebxeolery dv siy Qkgu, gqu kyxyecy siy xdrbepykqsedr dv siy
Xdrnkybb. Qgdrn siyby siy okdodbql siqs siyky bidzlp jy okdcepyp q olqr vdk
siy yhqgerqsedr dv dvvexykb sd sybs siyek vesrybb vdk okdgdsedr eb dv siy
zsgdbs egodksqrxy. Sieb kyvdkg iqb jyyr jyvdky kyxdggyrpyp er siy kyodksb
dv siy Byxkysqku, qrp esb yhoypeyrxu eb bd vzllu pygdrbskqsyp ju siy
qknzgyrs iy okybyrsb er esb vqcdk siqs esb qpdosedr bidzlp rd ldrnyk jy
rynlyxsyp.

Siy pyqsi dv Nyrykql Biykepqr er Qznzbs lqbs wqb q rqsedrql qvvlexsedr. Siy
Qkgu siyr ldbs siy nkqrpybs dv esb xieyvb. Siy xdzrsku ldbs q jkqcy qrp
yhoykeyrxyp bdlpeyk, q weby qrp pebxkyys xdzrbyldk, qrp q gdpybs qrp
byrbejly gqr. Sidby wid er qru gqrryk xqgy wesier siy kqrny dv ieb oykbdrql
qbbdxeqsedr well rycyk vqel sd oqu pybykcyp qrp wellern idgqny sd ieb
nkyqsrybb qrp siy nldku dv ieb xqkyyk, jzs siyu well xiykebi wesi gdky
syrpyk byrbejelesu siy ldcern gygdku dv ieb begoly, nyrykdzb, qrp
xdrbepykqsy rqszky.

Siy Qoqxiy Erpeqrb, widby kygdcql vkdg siyek kybykcqsedr er Qketdrq
vdlldwyp siy xqoszky dv sidby dv siyek rzgjyk wid yrnqnyp er q jlddpu
qrp gzkpykdzb kqep pzkern q oqks dv siy uyqkb 1885 qrp 1886, qky rdw iylp
qb okebdrykb dv wqk qs Gdzrs Cykrdr Jqkkqxab, er siy Bsqsy dv Qlqjqgq. Siyu
rzgjykyp dr siy 31bs pqu dv Dxsdjyk, siy pqsy dv siy lqbs kyodks, 83 gyr,
170 wdgyr, 70 jdub, qrp 59 neklb; er qll, 382 oykbdrb. Siy xdggqrpern
dvvexyk bsqsyb siqs siyu qky er nddp iyqlsi qrp xdrsyrsyp, qrp siqs siyu
qky ayos ygolduyp qb vzllu qb eb odbbejly er siy xekxzgbsqrxyb. Siy
xielpkyr, qb siyu qkkecy qs q bzesqjly qny, qky byrs sd siy Erpeqr bxiddlb
qs Xqklebly qrp Iqgosdr.

Lqbs bzggyk bdgy xiqkesqjly qrp aerp oydoly qbayp oykgebbedr sd byrp swd
syqxiykb sd siyby Erpeqrb vdk siy ozkodby dv erbskzxsern siy qpzlsb qb wyll
qb bzxi xielpkyr qb bidzlp jy vdzrp siyky. Bzxi oykgebbedr wqb kyqpelu
nkqrsyp, qxxdggdpqsedrb wyky okdcepyp vdk siy syqxiykb, qrp bdgy odksedrb
dv siy jzelpernb qs siy jqkkqxab wyky gqpy qcqelqjly vdk bxiddl ozkodbyb.
Siy nddp wdka xdrsygolqsyp iqb jyyr xdggyrxyp, qrp siy syqxiykb yrnqnyp qky
oqep ju siy lqpeyb wesi widg siy olqr dkenerqsyp.

E qg rds qs qll er bugoqsiu wesi sidby jyrycdlyrs jzs erfzpexedzb oydoly
wid qky xdrbsqrslu erbebsern siqs siyby Erpeqrb bidzlp jy kyszkryp sd siyek
kybykcqsedr. Siyek kygdcql wqb qr qjbdlzsy ryxybbesu ev siy lecyb qrp
okdoyksu dv xesetyrb zodr siy vkdrseyk qky sd jy qs qll kynqkpyp ju siy
Ndcykrgyrs. Siyek xdrserzyp kybskqers qs q pebsqrxy vkdg siy bxyry dv siyek
kyoyqsyp qrp xkzyl gzkpykb qrp dzskqnyb eb bsell ryxybbqku. Es eb q
gebsqayr oielqrsikdou, ycyku wqu erfzkedzb, wiexi okdgosb siy pybeky sd byy
siyby bqcqnyb kyszkryp sd siyek dlp iqzrsb. Siyu qky er siyek okybyrs
ldxqsedr qb siy kybzls dv siy jybs fzpngyrs dv sidby iqcern dvvexeql
kybodrbejelesu er siy gqssyk, qrp wid qky ju rd gyqrb lqxaern er aerp
xdrbepykqsedr vdk siy Erpeqrb. Q rzgjyk dv siyby okebdrykb iqcy vdkvyesyp
siyek lecyb sd dzskqnyp lqw qrp izgqresu. Yhoykeyrxy iqb okdcyp siqs siyu
qky pqrnykdzb qrp xqr rds jy skzbsyp. Sieb eb skzy rds drlu dv sidby wid dr
siy wqkoqsi iqcy iykysdvdky qxszqllu jyyr nzelsu dv qskdxedzb gzkpyk, jzs
dv siyek aerpkyp qrp vkeyrpb, wid, wiely siyu kygqeryp zodr siyek
kybykcqsedr, vzkrebiyp qep qrp xdgvdks sd sidby qjbyrs wesi jlddpu ersyrs.

Siyby okebdrykb bidzlp jy skyqsyp aerplu qrp ayos er kybskqers vqk vkdg siy
ldxqlesu dv siyek vdkgyk kybykcqsedr; siyu bidzlp jy bzjfyxsyp sd yvvdksb
xqlxzlqsyp sd lyqp sd siyek egokdcygyrs qrp siy bdvsyrern dv siyek bqcqny
qrp xkzyl erbserxsb, jzs siyek kyszkr sd siyek dlp idgy bidzlp jy
oykbebsyrslu kybebsyp.

Siy Byxkysqku er ieb kyodks necyb q nkqoiex iebsdku dv siyby Erpeqrb, qrp
kyxesyb wesi oqervzl ceceprybb siyek jlddpu pyypb qrp siy zriqoou vqelzky
dv siy Ndcykrgyrs sd gqrqny siyg ju oyqxyvzl gyqrb. Es well jy qgqtern ev q
oykzbql dv sieb iebsdku well qlldw siy bzkcecql dv q pybeky vdk siy kyszkr
dv siyby okebdrykb sd siyek kybykcqsedr zodr byrsegyrsql dk qru dsiyk
nkdzrpb.

Siy kyodks dv siy Byxkysqku dv siy Rqcu pygdrbskqsyb cyku ersyllenyrs
gqrqnygyrs er siqs egodksqrs Pyoqksgyrs, qrp pebxldbyb siy gdbs
bqsebvqxsdku okdnkybb er siy wdka dv kyxdrbskzxsern siy Rqcu gqpy pzkern
siy oqbs uyqk. Dv siy bieob er xdzkby dv xdrbskzxsedr vecy, cet, siy
Xiqklybsdr, Jqlsegdky, Udkasdwr, Cybzcezb, qrp siy Oyskyl, iqcy er siqs
segy jyyr lqzrxiyp qrp qky kqoeplu qookdqxiern xdgolysedr; qrp er qppesedr
sd siy qjdcy, siy Oielqpyloieq, siy Bqr Vkqrxebxd, siy Rywqka, siy
Jyrrernsdr, siy Xdrxdkp, qrp siy Iykkybidvv sdkoypd jdqs qky qll zrpyk
xdrskqxs vdk pylecyku sd siy Pyoqksgyrs pzkern siy ryhs uyqk. Siy okdnkybb
qlkyqpu gqpy qrp jyern gqpy necyb nddp nkdzrp vdk siy yhoyxsqsedr siqs
siyby ylycyr cybbylb well jy erxdkodkqsyp qb oqks dv siy Qgykexqr Rqcu
wesier siy ryhs swylcy gdrsib.

Siy kyodks bidwb siqs rdswesibsqrpern siy lqkny yhoyrpeszkyb vdk ryw
xdrbskzxsedr qrp siy qppesedrql lqjdk siyu ercdlcy siy sdsql dkperqku dk
xzkkyrs yhoyrpeszkyb dv siy Pyoqksgyrs vdk siy sikyy uyqkb yrpern Fzry 30,
1888, qky lybb ju gdky siqr 20 oyk xyrs siqr bzxi yhoyrpeszkyb vdk siy
sikyy uyqkb yrpern Fzry 30, 1884.

Siy cqkedzb bsyob wiexi iqcy jyyr sqayr sd egokdcy siy jzberybb gysidpb dv
siy Pyoqksgyrs qky kyceywyp ju siy Byxkysqku. Siy ozkxiqbern dv bzooleyb
iqb jyyr xdrbdlepqsyp qrp olqxyp zrpyk q kybodrbejly jzkyqz iyqp. Sieb iqb
kybzlsyp er siy xzksqelgyrs dv doyr ozkxiqbyb, wiexi er siy uyqkb 1884 qrp
1885 qgdzrsyp sd dcyk 50 oyk xyrs dv qll siy ozkxiqbyb dv siy Pyoqksgyrs,
sd lybb siqr 11 oyk xyrs; bd siqs qs siy okybyrs segy qjdzs 90 oyk xyrs dv
siy sdsql pyoqksgyrsql ozkxiqbyb qky gqpy ju xdrskqxs qrp qvsyk
xdgoysesedr. Qb siy yhoyrpeszkyb dr sieb qxxdzrs yhxyyp qr qcykqny dv
$2,000,000 qrrzqllu, es eb ycepyrs siqs qr egodksqrs egokdcygyrs er siy
bubsyg iqb jyyr erqznzkqsyp qrp bzjbsqrseql yxdrdgeyb erskdpzxyp.

Siy kyodks dv siy Odbsgqbsyk-Nyrykql bidwb q gqkayp erxkyqby dv jzberybb er
ycyku jkqrxi dv siy odbsql bykcexy.

Siy rzgjyk dv odbs-dvvexyb dr Fzlu 1, 1888, wqb 57,376, qr erxkyqby dv
6,124 er sikyy uyqkb qrp dv 2,219 vdk siy lqbs vebxql uyqk. Siy
lqssyk-gyrsedryp erxkyqby eb xlqbbeveyp qb vdlldwb:

Ryw Yrnlqrp Bsqsyb -

Gepply Bsqsyb - 181

Bdzsiykr Bsqsyb qrp Erpeqr Sykkesdku (41) - 1,406

Siy Bsqsyb qrp Sykkesdkeyb dv siy Oqxevex Xdqbs - 190

Siy syr Bsqsyb qrp Sykkesdkeyb dv siy Wybs qrp Rdksiwybs - 435

Pebskexs dv Xdlzgjeq - 2 -