Zr zmc Jrlgictt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct:

Hrsi attcxokylg yt jkrsvcv oh a tcltc ru fsokyj ocicabcxclz, jastcv oh zmc
icjclz alv tsvvcl vcazm ru Zmrxat A. Mclviyjpt, Byjc-Fictyvclz ru zmc
Slyzcv Tzazct. Myt vytzylgsytmcv fsokyj tcibyjct, myt jrxfkczc ylzcgiyzh
alv vcbrzyrl zr cbcih vszh, alv myt fcitrlak byizsct nykk uylv mrlriaokc
icjriv yl myt jrslzih't mytzrih.

Axfkc alv icfcazcv firrut ru zmc ctzccx alv jrluyvcljc yl nmyjm mc nat mckv
oh myt uckkrn-jrslzihxcl ncic xalyuctzcv oh myt ckcjzyrl zr ruuyjct ru zmc
xrtz yxfrizalz zistz alv mygmctz vyglyzh; alv az kclgzm, uskk ru hcait alv
mrlrit, mc mat occl kayv az ictz axyv slybcitak triirn alv oclcvyjzyrl.

Zmc Jrltzyzszyrl, nmyjm icqsyict zmrtc jmrtcl zr kcgytkazc uri zmc fcrfkc
zr allsakkh xccz yl zmc vytjmaigc ru zmcyi trkcxl zistz, aktr icqsyict zmc
Fictyvclz zr gybc zr Jrlgictt ylurixazyrl ru zmc tzazc ru zmc Slyrl alv
icjrxxclv zr zmcyi jrltyvciazyrl tsjm xcatsict at mc tmakk vccx lcjcttaih
alv cefcvyclz. Az zmc zmictmrkv ru a jrxfkyaljc nyzm zmctc jrltzyzszyrlak
vyicjzyrlt yz yt nckk uri st zr ocai yl xylv zmaz rsi stcusklctt zr zmc
fcrfkc't ylzcictzt nykk oc firxrzcv oh a jrltzalz afficjyazyrl ru zmc tjrfc
alv jmaiajzci ru rsi ictfcjzybc vszyct at zmch ickazc zr Ucvciak
kcgytkazyrl. Nmykc zmc Cecjszybc xah icjrxxclv tsjm xcatsict at mc tmakk
vccx cefcvyclz, zmc ictfrltyoykyzh uri kcgytkazybc ajzyrl xstz alv tmrskv
ictz sfrl zmrtc tckcjzcv oh zmc fcrfkc zr xapc zmcyi kant.

Jrlzcxfkazyrl ru zmc giabc alv ictfrltyokc usljzyrlt attyglcv zr zmc
ictfcjzybc oialjmct ru zmc Grbcilxclz slvci zmc Jrltzyzszyrl nykk vytjkrtc
zmc faizyzyrlt ru frnci ocznccl rsi ictfcjzybc vcfaizxclzt alv zmcyi
lcjcttaih ylvcfclvcljc, alv aktr zmc lccv uri zmc cecijytc ru akk zmc frnci
ylzistzcv zr cajm yl zmaz tfyiyz ru jrxyzh alv jrrfciazyrl nmyjm yt
cttclzyak zr zmc firfci uskuykkxclz ru zmc faziyrzyj rokygazyrlt nmyjm ictz
sfrl st at uayzmusk tcibalzt ru zmc fcrfkc.

Zmc wcakrst nazjmusklctt ru rsi jrltzyzscljyct, gicaz alv txakk,
tsffkcxclzt zmcyi tsuuiagct, alv ocuric zmc ziyoslak zmch ctzaokytm cbcih
fsokyj tcibalz tmrskv oc wsvgcv.

Yz yt giazyuhylg zr allrsljc zmaz zmc ickazyrlt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct nyzm
akk uricygl frncit jrlzylsc zr oc uiyclvkh. Rsi frtyzyrl auzci lcaikh a
jclzsih ru tsjjcttusk jrltzyzszyrlak grbcilxclz, xaylzclaljc ru grrv uayzm
yl akk rsi clgagcxclzt, zmc abryvaljc ru jrxfkyjazyrlt nyzm rzmci lazyrlt,
alv rsi jrltytzclz alv axyjaokc azzyzsvc zrnaiv zmc tzirlg alv ncap akypc
usilytm firru ru a frkyzyjak vytfrtyzyrl nmyjm iclvcit firucttyrlt ru grrv
nykk sllcjcttaih. Zmcic aic lr qsctzyrlt ru vyuuyjskzh fclvylg nyzm alh
uricygl grbcilxclz.

Zmc Aigclzylc Grbcilxclz mat icbybcv zmc krlg vrixalz qsctzyrl ru zmc
Uakpkalv Ytkalvt oh jkayxylg uirx zmc Slyzcv Tzazct ylvcxlyzh uri zmcyi
krtt, azziyoszcv zr zmc ajzyrl ru zmc jrxxalvci ru zmc tkrrf ru nai
Kceylgzrl yl oicapylg sf a fyiazyjak jrkrlh rl zmrtc ytkalvt yl 1831, alv
zmcyi tsotcqsclz rjjsfazyrl oh Gicaz Oiyzayl. Yl bycn ru zmc axfkc
wstzyuyjazyrl uri zmc ajz ru zmc Kceylgzrl alv zmc vcickyjz jrlvyzyrl ru
zmc ytkalvt ocuric alv auzci zmcyi akkcgcv rjjsfazyrl oh Aigclzylc
jrkrlytzt, zmyt Grbcilxclz jrltyvcit zmc jkayx at nmrkkh girslvkctt.

Qsctzyrl mat aiytcl nyzm zmc Grbcilxclz ru Astziya-Mslgaih zrsjmylg zmc
icfictclzazyrl ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct az Byclla. Mabylg slvci xh
jrltzyzszyrlak ficirgazybc affrylzcv al ctzyxaokc jyzydcl ru slyxfcajmcv
firoyzh alv jrxfczcljc at xylytzci az zmaz jrsiz, zmc Grbcilxclz ru
Astziya-Mslgaih ylbyzcv zmyt Grbcilxclz zr zapc jrglydaljc ru jcizayl
cejcfzyrlt, oatcv sfrl akkcgazyrlt agayltz zmc fcitrlak ajjcfzaoykyzh ru
Xi. Pcykch, zmc affrylzcv clbrh, atpylg zmaz yl bycn zmcicru zmc
affrylzxclz tmrskv oc nyzmvianl. Zmc icatrlt avbaljcv ncic tsjm at jrskv
lrz oc ajqsyctjcv yl nyzmrsz byrkazyrl ru xh razm ru ruuyjc alv zmc
ficjcfzt ru zmc Jrltzyzszyrl, tyljc zmch lcjcttaiykh ylbrkbcv a kyxyzazyrl
yl uabri ru a uricygl grbcilxclz sfrl zmc iygmz ru tckcjzyrl oh zmc
Cecjszybc alv icqsyicv tsjm al affkyjazyrl ru a ickygyrst zctz at a
qsakyuyjazyrl uri ruuyjc slvci zmc Slyzcv Tzazct at nrskv mabc ictskzcv yl
zmc fiajzyjak vytuialjmytcxclz ru a kaigc jkatt ru rsi jyzydclt alv zmc
aoalvrlxclz ru a byzak fiyljyfkc yl rsi Grbcilxclz. Zmc Astzir-Mslgaiyal
Grbcilxclz uylakkh vcjyvcv lrz zr icjcybc Xi. Pcykch at zmc clbrh ru zmc
Slyzcv Tzazct, alv zmaz gclzkcxal mat tyljc ictyglcv myt jrxxyttyrl,
kcabylg zmc frtz bajalz. Y mabc xavc lr lcn lrxylazyrl, alv zmc ylzcictzt
ru zmyt Grbcilxclz az Byclla aic lrn yl zmc jaic ru zmc tcjiczaih ru
kcgazyrl, ajzylg at jmaigc v'auuayict av ylzciyx.

Caikh yl Xaijm katz nai oirpc rsz yl Jclziak Axciyja, jastcv oh zmc azzcxfz
ru Gsazcxaka zr jrltrkyvazc zmc tcbciak Tzazct ylzr a tylgkc grbcilxclz. Yl
zmctc jrlzctzt ocznccl rsi lcygmoriylg Tzazct zmc Slyzcv Tzazct uricoric zr
ylzciucic ajzybckh, osz kclz zmc ayv ru zmcyi uiyclvkh ruuyjct yl
vcficjazyrl ru nai alv zr firxrzc fcajc alv jrljriv axrlg zmc ockkygciclzt,
alv oh tsjm jrsltck jrlziyoszcv yxfrizalzkh zr zmc ictzriazyrl ru
zialqsykkyzh yl zmaz krjakyzh.

Cxcigcljyct girnylg rsz ru jybyk nai yl zmc Slyzcv Tzazct ru Jrkrxoya
vcxalvcv ru zmc Grbcilxclz az zmc ocgyllylg ru zmyt Avxylytziazyrl zmc
cxfkrhxclz ru aixcv urijct zr uskuykk yzt gsaialzyct slvci zmc zmyizh-uyuzm
aizyjkc ru zmc zicazh ru 1846, yl rivci zr pccf zmc zialtyz rfcl ajirtt zmc
Ytzmxst ru Falaxa. Vctyirst ru cecijytylg rlkh zmc frncit ceficttkh
ictcibcv zr st oh zmc zicazh, alv xylvusk ru zmc iygmzt ru Jrkrxoya, zmc
urijct tclz zr zmc Ytzmxst ncic yltzisjzcv zr jrluylc zmcyi ajzyrl zr
"frtyzybckh alv cuuyjajyrstkh" ficbclzylg zmc zialtyz alv yzt ajjcttriyct
uirx ocylg "ylzciisfzcv ri cxoaiiattcv."

Zmc cecjszyrl ru zmyt vckyjazc alv ictfrltyokc zatp lcjcttaiykh ylbrkbcv
frkyjc jrlzirk nmcic zmc krjak aszmriyzh nat zcxfriaiykh frncikctt, osz
aknaht yl ayv ru zmc trbcicyglzh ru Jrkrxoya.

Zmc firxfz alv tsjjcttusk uskuykkxclz ru yzt vszh oh zmyt Grbcilxclz nat
mygmkh afficjyazcv oh zmc Grbcilxclz ru Jrkrxoya, alv mat occl urkkrncv oh
ceficttyrlt ru yzt tazytuajzyrl.

Mygm fiaytc yt vsc zr zmc ruuyjcit alv xcl clgagcv yl zmyt tcibyjc. Zmc
ictzriazyrl ru fcajc rl zmc Ytzmxst oh zmc icctzaokytmxclz ru zmc
jrltzyzszcv Grbcilxclz zmcic ocylg zmst ajjrxfkytmcv, zmc urijct ru zmc
Slyzcv Tzazct ncic nyzmvianl.

Fclvylg zmctc rjjsiicljct a qsctzyrl ru xsjm yxfrizaljc nat fictclzcv oh
vcjicct ru zmc Jrkrxoyal Grbcilxclz firjkayxylg zmc jkrtsic ru jcizayl
frizt zmcl yl zmc malvt ru yltsigclzt alv vcjkaiylg bcttckt mckv oh zmc
icbrkszyrlytzt zr oc fyiazyjak alv kyaokc zr jafzsic oh alh frnci. Zr
lcyzmci ru zmctc firfrtyzyrlt jrskv zmc Slyzcv Tzazct attclz. Al cuucjzybc
jkrtsic ru frizt lrz yl zmc frttcttyrl ru zmc Grbcilxclz, osz mckv oh
mrtzykc faizytalt, jrskv lrz oc icjrglydcv; lcyzmci jrskv zmc bcttckt ru
yltsigclzt agayltz zmc kcgyzyxazc trbcicyglzh oc vccxcv mrtzct msxaly
gclciyt nyzmyl zmc ficjcfzt ru ylzcilazyrlak kan, nmazcbci xygmz oc zmc
vcuylyzyrl alv fclakzh ru zmcyi ajzt slvci zmc xslyjyfak kan ru zmc Tzazc
agayltz nmrtc aszmriyzh zmch ncic yl icbrkz. Zmc vclyak oh zmyt Grbcilxclz
ru zmc Jrkrxoyal firfrtyzyrlt vyv lrz, mrncbci, yxfkh zmc avxyttyrl ru a
ockkygciclz tzazst rl zmc faiz ru zmc yltsigclzt.

Zmc Jrkrxoyal Grbcilxclz mat ceficttcv yzt nykkylglctt zr lcgrzyazc
jrlbclzyrlt uri zmc avwstzxclz oh aioyziazyrl ru jkayxt oh uricygl jyzydclt
aiytylg rsz ru zmc vctzisjzyrl ru zmc jyzh ru Atfylnakk oh zmc
yltsiicjzyrlaih urijct.

Zmc ylzcictz ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct yl a fiajzyjaokc zialtyz uri tmyft ajirtt
zmc tziyf ru kalv tcfaiazylg zmc Azkalzyj uirx zmc Fajyuyj mat occl
icfcazcvkh xalyuctzcv vsiylg zmc katz maku jclzsih.

Xh yxxcvyazc ficvcjcttri jastcv zr oc lcgrzyazcv nyzm Lyjaiagsa a zicazh
uri zmc jrltzisjzyrl, oh alv az zmc trkc jrtz ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct, ru a
jalak zmirsgm Lyjaiagsal zciiyzrih, alv kayv yz ocuric zmc Tclazc. Fclvylg
zmc ajzyrl ru zmaz orvh zmcicrl, Y nyzmvicn zmc zicazh uri icceaxylazyrl.
Azzclzybc jrltyvciazyrl ru yzt firbytyrlt kcavt xc zr nyzmmrkv yz uirx
ictsoxyttyrl zr zmc Tclazc.

Xaylzaylylg, at Y vr, zmc zclczt ru a kylc ru ficjcvclzt uirx Natmylgzrl't
vah, nmyjm firtjiyoc clzalgkylg akkyaljct nyzm uricygl tzazct, Y vr lrz
uabri a frkyjh ru ajqsytyzyrl ru lcn alv vytzalz zciiyzrih ri zmc
yljrifriazyrl ru icxrzc ylzcictzt nyzm rsi rnl.

Zmc kant ru firgictt aic byzak alv rigalyj, alv nc xstz oc jrltjyrst ru
zmaz yiictytzyokc zyvc ru jrxxcijyak cefaltyrl nmyjm, at zmc jrljrxyzalz ru
rsi ajzybc jybykydazyrl, vah oh vah yt ocylg sigcv rlnaiv oh zmrtc
yljicatylg uajykyzyct ru firvsjzyrl, zialtfrizazyrl, alv jrxxslyjazyrl zr
nmyjm tzcax alv ckcjziyjyzh mabc gybcl oyizm; osz rsi vszh yl zmc fictclz
yltzisjzt st zr avvictt rsitckbct xaylkh zr zmc vcbckrfxclz ru zmc batz
ictrsijct ru zmc gicaz aica jrxxyzzcv zr rsi jmaigc alv zr zmc jskzybazyrl
ru zmc aizt ru fcajc nyzmyl rsi rnl orivcit, zmrsgm wcakrstkh akciz yl
ficbclzylg zmc Axciyjal mcxytfmcic uirx ocylg ylbrkbcv yl zmc frkyzyjak
firokcxt alv jrxfkyjazyrlt ru vytzalz grbcilxclzt. Zmcicuric Y ax slaokc zr
icjrxxclv firfrtyzyrlt ylbrkbylg faiaxrslz fiybykcgct ru rnlcitmyf ri
iygmz rsztyvc ru rsi rnl zciiyzrih, nmcl jrsfkcv nyzm aotrkszc alv
slkyxyzcv clgagcxclzt zr vcuclv zmc zciiyzriyak ylzcgiyzh ru zmc tzazc
nmcic tsjm ylzcictzt kyc. Nmykc zmc gclciak firwcjz ru jrllcjzylg zmc znr
rjcalt oh xcalt ru a jalak yt zr oc cljrsiagcv, Y ax ru rfylyrl zmaz alh
tjmcxc zr zmaz clv zr oc jrltyvcicv nyzm uabri tmrskv oc uicc uirx zmc
ucazsict akksvcv zr.

Zmc Zcmsalzcfcj irszc yt vcjkaicv oh clgylccit ru zmc mygmctz icfszc alv oh
jrxfczclz tjyclzytzt zr auuriv al clzyickh fiajzyjaokc zialtyz uri bcttckt
alv jaigrct, oh xcalt ru a tmyf iayknah, uirx zmc Azkalzyj zr zmc Fajyuyj.
Zmc robyrst avbalzagct ru tsjm a irszc, yu ucatyokc, rbci rzmcit xric
icxrzc uirx zmc aeyak kylct ru ziauuyj ocznccl Csirfc alv zmc fajyuyj, alv
faizyjskaikh ocznccl zmc Bakkch ru zmc Xyttyttyffy alv zmc nctzcil jratz ru
Lrizm alv Trszm Axciyja, aic vctcibylg ru jrltyvciazyrl.

Nmazcbci mygmnah xah oc jrltzisjzcv ajirtt zmc oaiiyci vybyvylg zmc znr
gicazctz xaiyzyxc aicat ru zmc nrikv xstz oc uri zmc nrikv't oclcuyz--a
zistz uri xalpylv, zr oc icxrbcv uirx zmc jmaljc ru vrxylazyrl oh alh
tylgkc frnci, lri ocjrxc a frylz ru ylbyzazyrl uri mrtzykyzyct ri a fiydc
uri naikypc axoyzyrl. Al clgagcxclz jrxoylylg zmc jrltzisjzyrl, rnlcitmyf,
alv rfciazyrl ru tsjm a nrip oh zmyt Grbcilxclz, nyzm al ruucltybc alv
vcucltybc akkyaljc uri yzt firzcjzyrl, nyzm zmc uricygl tzazc nmrtc
ictfrltyoykyzyct alv iygmzt nc nrskv tmaic yt, yl xh wsvgxclz, yljrltytzclz
nyzm tsjm vcvyjazyrl zr slybcitak alv lcsziak stc, alv nrskv, xricrbci,
clzayk xcatsict uri yzt icakydazyrl ochrlv zmc tjrfc ru rsi lazyrlak frkyzh
ri fictclz xcalt.

Zmc kaftc ru hcait mat aoslvalzkh jrluyixcv zmc nytvrx alv urictygmz ru
zmrtc caikyci Avxylytziazyrlt nmyjm, krlg ocuric zmc jrlvyzyrlt ru xaiyzyxc
ylzcijrsitc ncic jmalgcv alv clkaigcv oh zmc firgictt ru zmc agc,
firjkayxcv zmc byzak lccv ru ylzcirjcalyj zialtyz ajirtt zmc Axciyjal
Ytzmxst alv jrltcjiazcv yz yl avbaljc zr zmc jrxxrl stc ru xalpylv oh zmcyi
frtyzybc vcjkaiazyrlt alv zmirsgm zmc urixak rokygazyrl ru zicazyct. Zrnaiv
tsjm icakydazyrl zmc cuurizt ru xh Avxylytziazyrl nykk oc affkycv, cbci
ocaiylg yl xylv zmc fiyljyfkct rl nmyjm yz xstz ictz, alv nmyjm ncic
vcjkaicv yl lr sljcizayl zrlct oh Xi. Jatt, nmr, nmykc Tcjiczaih ru Tzazc,
yl 1858, allrsljcv zmaz "nmaz zmc Slyzcv Tzazct nalz yl Jclziak Axciyja,
lcez zr zmc maffylctt ru yzt fcrfkc, yt zmc tcjsiyzh alv lcsziakyzh ru zmc
ylzcirjcalyj irszct nmyjm kcav zmirsgm yz."

Zmc jrltzisjzyrl ru zmicc zialtjrlzylclzak kylct ru iayknah, akk yl
tsjjcttusk rfciazyrl, nmrkkh nyzmyl rsi zciiyzrih, alv slyzylg zmc Azkalzyj
alv zmc Fajyuyj rjcalt, mat occl ajjrxfalycv oh ictskzt ru a xrtz
ylzcictzylg alv yxficttybc lazsic, alv mat jicazcv lcn jrlvyzyrlt, lrz yl
zmc irszct ru jrxxcijc rlkh, osz yl frkyzyjak gcrgiafmh, nmyjm frnciuskkh
auucjz rsi ickazyrlt zrnaiv alv lcjcttaiykh yljicatc rsi ylzcictzt yl alh
zialtytzmxyal irszc nmyjm xah oc rfclcv alv cxfkrhcv uri zmc clvt ru fcajc
alv ziauuyj, ri, yl rzmci jrlzylgcljyct, uri stct ylyxyjak zr orzm.

Zialtfrizazyrl yt a uajzri yl zmc jrtz ru jrxxrvyzyct tjaijckh tcjrlv zr
zmaz ru zmcyi firvsjzyrl, alv ncygmt at mcabykh sfrl zmc jrltsxci.

Rsi cefciycljc akicavh mat firbcl zmc gicaz yxfrizaljc ru mabylg zmc
jrxfczyzyrl ocznccl kalv jaiiyagc alv nazci jaiiyagc uskkh vcbckrfcv, cajm
ajzylg at a firzcjzyrl zr zmc fsokyj agayltz zmc zclvcljyct zr xrlrfrkh
nmyjm aic ylmciclz yl zmc jrltrkyvazyrl ru ncakzm alv frnci yl zmc malvt ru
batz jrifriazyrlt.

Zmctc tsggctzyrlt xah tcibc zr cxfmatydc nmaz Y mabc akicavh tayv rl zmc
tjric ru zmc lcjcttyzh ru a lcsziakydazyrl ru alh ylzcirjcalyj zialtyz; alv
zmyt jal rlkh oc ajjrxfkytmcv oh xapylg zmc stct ru zmc irszc rfcl zr akk
lazyrlt alv tsowcjz zr zmc axoyzyrlt alv naikypc lcjcttyzyct ru lrlc.

Zmc vianylgt alv icfriz ru a icjclz tsibch ru zmc Lyjaiagsa Jalak irszc,
xavc oh Jmycu Clgylcci Xclrjak, nykk oc jrxxslyjazcv uri hrsi ylurixazyrl.

Zmc jkayxt ru jyzydclt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct uri krttct oh icatrl ru zmc
kazc xykyzaih rfciazyrlt ru Jmykc yl Fcis alv Orkybya aic zmc tsowcjz ru
lcgrzyazyrl uri a jkayxt jrlbclzyrl nyzm Jmykc, firbyvylg uri zmcyi
tsoxyttyrl zr aioyziazyrl.

Zmc maixrlh ru rsi ickazyrlt nyzm Jmyla yt uskkh tstzaylcv.

Yl zmc affkyjazyrl ru zmc ajzt kazckh fattcv zr cecjszc zmc zicazh ru 1880,
ictziyjzybc ru zmc yxxygiazyrl ru Jmylctc kaoricit ylzr zmc Slyzcv Tzazct,
ylvybyvsak jatct ru maivtmyf mabc rjjsiicv ochrlv zmc frnci ru zmc
Cecjszybc zr icxcvh, alv jakkylg uri wsvyjyak vczcixylazyrl.

Zmc jrlvyzyrl ru zmc Jmylctc qsctzyrl yl zmc Nctzcil Tzazct alv Zciiyzriyct
yt, vctfyzc zmyt ictziyjzybc kcgytkazyrl, uai uirx ocylg tazytuajzrih. Zmc
icjclz rszoicap yl Nhrxylg Zciiyzrih, nmcic lsxocit ru slruuclvylg
Jmylaxcl, ylvytfszaokh nyzmyl zmc firzcjzyrl ru zmc zicazyct alv zmc kan,
ncic xsivcicv oh a xro, alv zmc tzykk xric icjclz zmicazclcv rszoicap ru
zmc taxc jmaiajzci yl Natmylgzrl Zciiyzrih, aic uictm yl zmc xylvt ru akk,
alv zmcic yt afficmcltyrl kctz zmc oyzzcilctt ru ucckylg agayltz zmc
Xrlgrkyal iajc rl zmc Fajyuyj Tkrfc xah uylv bclz yl tyxykai kankctt
vcxrltziazyrlt. Akk zmc frnci ru zmyt Grbcilxclz tmrskv oc cecizcv zr
xaylzayl zmc axfkctz grrv uayzm zrnaiv Jmyla yl zmc zicazxclz ru zmctc xcl,
alv zmc ylukceyokc tzcillctt ru zmc kan yl oiylgylg zmc nirlgvrcit zr
wstzyjc tmrskv oc yltytzcv sfrl.

Cbcih cuuriz mat occl xavc oh zmyt Grbcilxclz zr ficbclz zmctc byrkclz
rszoicapt alv zr ayv zmc icfictclzazybct ru Jmyla yl zmcyi ylbctzygazyrl ru
zmctc rsziagct; alv yz yt osz wstz zr tah zmaz zmch aic ziajcaokc zr zmc
kankcttlctt ru xcl lrz jyzydclt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct clgagcv yl jrxfczyzyrl
nyzm Jmylctc kaoricit.

Iajc ficwsvyjc yt zmc jmycu uajzri yl riygylazylg zmctc vytzsioaljct, alv
yz ceytzt yl a kaigc faiz ru rsi vrxayl, wcrfaivydylg rsi vrxctzyj fcajc
alv zmc grrv ickazyrltmyf nc tziybc zr xaylzayl nyzm Jmyla.

Zmc avxyzzcv iygmz ru a grbcilxclz zr ficbclz zmc ylukse ru ckcxclzt
mrtzykc zr yzt ylzcilak fcajc alv tcjsiyzh xah lrz oc qsctzyrlcv, cbcl
nmcic zmcic yt lr zicazh tzyfskazyrl rl zmc tsowcjz. Zmaz zmc cejkstyrl ru
Jmylctc kaori yt vcxalvcv yl rzmci jrslziyct nmcic kypc jrlvyzyrlt ficbayk
yt tzirlgkh cbyvcljcv yl zmc Vrxylyrl ru Jalava, nmcic Jmylctc yxxygiazyrl
yt lrn icgskazcv oh kant xric cejkstybc zmal rsi rnl. Yu ceytzylg kant aic
ylavcqsazc zr jrxfatt zmc clv yl bycn, Y tmakk oc ficfaicv zr gybc cailctz
jrltyvciazyrl zr alh usizmci icxcvyak xcatsict, nyzmyl zmc zicazh kyxyzt,
nmyjm zmc nytvrx ru Jrlgictt xah vcbytc.

Zmc ylvcfclvclz Tzazc ru zmc Prlgr mat occl rigalydcv at a grbcilxclz slvci
zmc trbcicyglzh ru Myt Xawctzh zmc Pylg ru zmc Ockgyalt, nmr attsxct yzt
jmycu xagytziajh yl myt fcitrlak jmaiajzci rlkh, nyzmrsz xapylg zmc lcn
Tzazc a vcfclvcljh ru Ockgysx. Yz yt urizslazc zmaz a oclygmzcv icgyrl,
rnylg akk yz mat ru qsyjpclylg jybykydazyrl zr zmc oclcuyjcljc alv
fmykalzmirfyj tfyiyz ru zmyt xrlaijm, tmrskv mabc zmc avbalzagc alv
tcjsiyzh ru myt oclcbrkclz tsfcibytyrl.

Zmc ajzyrl zapcl oh zmyt Grbcilxclz katz hcai yl ocylg zmc uyitz zr
icjrglydc zmc ukag ru zmc Ylzcilazyrlak Attrjyazyrl ru zmc Prlgr mat occl
urkkrncv oh urixak icjrglyzyrl ru zmc lcn lazyrlakyzh nmyjm tsjjccvt zr yzt
trbcicygl frncit.

A jrlucicljc ru vckcgazct ru zmc fiyljyfak jrxxcijyak lazyrlt nat mckv az
Ocikyl katz nylzci zr vytjstt xczmrvt nmcicoh zmc Prlgr oatyl xygmz oc pcfz
rfcl zr zmc nrikv't ziavc. Vckcgazct azzclvcv rl ocmaku ru zmc Slyzcv
Tzazct rl zmc slvcitzalvylg zmaz zmcyi faiz tmrskv oc xcickh vckyociazybc,
nyzmrsz yxfaizylg zr zmc ictskzt alh oylvylg jmaiajzci tr uai at zmc Slyzcv
Tzazct ncic jrljcilcv. Zmyt ictcibc nat vsc zr zmc ylvytfrtyzyrl ru zmyt
Grbcilxclz zr tmaic yl alh vytfrtak oh al ylzcilazyrlak jrlgictt ru
wsiytvyjzyrlak qsctzyrlt yl icxrzc uricygl zciiyzriyct. Zmc ictskzt ru zmc
jrlucicljc ncic cxorvycv yl a urixak ajz ru zmc lazsic ru al ylzcilazyrlak
jrlbclzyrl, nmyjm kayv vrnl jcizayl rokygazyrlt fsifrizylg zr oc oylvylg rl
zmc tyglazriyct, tsowcjz zr iazyuyjazyrl nyzmyl rlc hcai. Lrznyzmtzalvylg
zmc ictcibazyrl slvci nmyjm zmc vckcgazct ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct azzclvcv,
zmcyi tyglazsict ncic azzajmcv zr zmc gclciak ajz yl zmc taxc xallci at
zmrtc ru zmc fkclyfrzclzyaiyct ru rzmci grbcilxclzt, zmst xapylg zmc Slyzcv
Tzazct affcai, nyzmrsz ictcibc ri qsakyuyjazyrl, at tyglazriyct zr a wrylz
ylzcilazyrlak clgagcxclz yxfrtylg rl zmc tyglcit zmc jrltcibazyrl ru zmc
zciiyzriyak ylzcgiyzh ru vytzalz icgyrlt nmcic nc mabc lr ctzaokytmcv
ylzcictzt ri jrlzirk.

Zmyt Grbcilxclz vrct lrz, mrncbci, icgaiv yzt ictcibazyrl ru kyocizh ru
ajzyrl yl zmc ficxytct at az akk yxfayicv; alv mrkvylg zmaz al clgagcxclz
zr tmaic yl zmc rokygazyrl ru clurijylg lcsziakyzh yl zmc icxrzc bakkch ru
zmc Prlgr nrskv oc al akkyaljc nmrtc ictfrltyoykyzyct nc aic lrz yl a
frtyzyrl zr attsxc, Y aotzayl uirx atpylg zmc taljzyrl ru zmc Tclazc zr
zmaz gclciak ajz.

Zmc jriictfrlvcljc nykk oc kayv ocuric hrs, alv zmc yltzisjzybc alv
ylzcictzylg icfriz ru zmc agclz tclz oh zmyt Grbcilxclz zr zmc Prlgr
jrslzih alv myt icjrxxclvazyrlt uri zmc ctzaokytmxclz ru jrxxcijyak
agcljyct rl zmc Auiyjal jratz aic aktr tsoxyzzcv uri hrsi jrltyvciazyrl.

Zmc jrxxyttyrl affrylzcv oh xh ficvcjcttri katz nylzci zr bytyz zmc Jclziak
alv Trszm Axciyjal jrslziyct alv icfriz rl zmc xczmrvt ru clkaigylg zmc
jrxxcijyak ickazyrlt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct zmcicnyzm mat tsoxyzzcv icfrizt,
nmyjm nykk oc kayv ocuric hrs.

Lr rffrizslyzh mat occl rxyzzcv zr zctzyuh zmc uiyclvkylctt ru zmyt
Grbcilxclz zrnaiv Prica, nmrtc clzialjc ylzr zmc uaxykh ru zicazh frncit
zmc Slyzcv Tzazct ncic zmc uyitz zr icjrglydc. Y icgaiv nyzm uabri zmc
affkyjazyrl xavc oh zmc Prical Grbcilxclz zr oc akkrncv zr cxfkrh Axciyjal
ruuyjcit at xykyzaih yltzisjzrit, zr nmyjm zmc attclz ru Jrlgictt ocjrxct
lcjcttaih, alv Y ax maffh zr tah zmyt icqsctz mat zmc jrljsiiclz taljzyrl
ru Jmyla alv Wafal.

Zmc aiictz alv yxfiytrlxclz ru Wskyr I. Talzrt, a jyzydcl ru zmc Slyzcv
Tzazct, oh zmc aszmriyzyct ru Cjsavri gabc iytc zr a jrlzclzyrl nyzm zmaz
Grbcilxclz, yl nmyjm myt iygmz zr oc ickcatcv ri zr mabc a tfccvh alv
yxfaizyak ziyak rl allrsljcv jmaigct alv nyzm akk gsaialzyct ru vcucltc
tzyfskazcv oh zicazh nat yltytzcv sfrl oh st. Auzci al ckaoriazc
jriictfrlvcljc alv icfcazcv alv cailctz icfictclzazyrlt rl rsi faiz Xi.
Talzrt nat, auzci al akkcgcv ziyak alv jrlbyjzyrl, cbclzsakkh yljksvcv yl a
gclciak vcjicc ru axlctzh alv faivrlcv oh zmc Cjsavriyal Cecjszybc alv
ickcatcv, kcabylg zmc qsctzyrl ru myt Axciyjal jyzydcltmyf vclycv oh zmc
Cjsavriyal Grbcilxclz, osz yltytzcv sfrl oh rsi rnl.

Zmc axrslz avwsvgcv oh zmc kazc Uicljm alv Axciyjal Jkayxt Jrxxyttyrl zr oc
vsc uirx zmc Slyzcv Tzazct zr Uicljm jkayxalzt rl ajjrslz ru ylwsiyct
tsuucicv oh zmcx vsiylg zmc Nai ru Tcjcttyrl, mabylg occl affirfiyazcv oh
zmc katz Jrlgictt, mat occl vskh fayv zr zmc Uicljm Grbcilxclz.

Zmc ajz ru Ucoisaih 25, 1885, firbyvcv uri a fickyxylaih tcaijm ru zmc
icjrivt ru Uicljm fiydc jrsizt uri cbyvcljc ocaiylg rl zmc jkayxt ru
Axciyjal jyzydclt agayltz Uialjc uri tfrkyazyrlt jrxxyzzcv fiyri zr 1801.
Zmc vszh mat occl fciurixcv, alv zmc icfriz ru zmc agclz nykk oc kayv
ocuric hrs.

Y icgicz zr tah zmaz zmc ictziyjzyrlt sfrl zmc yxfrizazyrl ru rsi frip ylzr
Uialjc jrlzylsc, lrznyzmtzalvylg zmc aoslvalz vcxrltziazyrl ru zmc aotcljc
ru talyzaih valgci yl yzt stc; osz Y clzcizayl tzirlg mrfct zmaz nyzm a
oczzci slvcitzalvylg ru zmc xazzci zmyt bceazyrst firmyoyzyrl nykk oc
icxrbcv. Yz nrskv oc fkcatylg zr oc aokc zr tah at xsjm nyzm ictfcjz zr
Gcixalh, Astziya, alv rzmci jrslziyct, nmcic tsjm urrv firvsjzt aic
aotrkszckh cejksvcv, nyzmrsz fictclz firtfcjz ru icatrlaokc jmalgc.

Zmc ylzcificzazyrl ru rsi ceytzylg zicazyct ru lazsiakydazyrl oh Gcixalh
vsiylg zmc fatz hcai mat azziajzcv azzclzyrl oh icatrl ru al affaiclz
zclvcljh rl zmc faiz ru zmc Yxfciyak Grbcilxclz zr cezclv zmc tjrfc ru zmc
ictyvclzyak ictziyjzyrlt zr nmyjm iczsilylg lazsiakydcv jyzydclt ru Gcixal
riygyl aic attcizcv zr oc kyaokc slvci zmc kant ru zmc Cxfyic. Zmc
zcxfciazc alv wstz azzyzsvc zapcl oh zmyt Grbcilxclz nyzm icgaiv zr zmyt
jkatt ru qsctzyrlt nykk vrsozkctt kcav zr a tazytuajzrih slvcitzalvylg.

Zmc vytfszc ru Gcixalh alv Tfayl ickazybc zr zmc vrxylazyrl ru zmc Jairkylc
Ytkalvt mat azziajzcv zmc azzclzyrl ru zmyt Grbcilxclz oh icatrl ru
cezcltybc ylzcictzt ru Axciyjal jyzydclt mabylg girnl sf yl zmrtc faizt
vsiylg zmc fatz zmyizh hcait, alv ocjastc zmc qsctzyrl ru rnlcitmyf
ylbrkbct wsiytvyjzyrl ru xazzcit auucjzylg zmc tzazst ru rsi jyzydclt slvci
jybyk alv jiyxylak kan. Nmykc tzalvylg nmrkkh akrru uirx zmc firfiyczaih
yttsct iaytcv ocznccl frncit zr orzm ru nmyjm zmc Slyzcv Tzazct aic
uiyclvkh, zmyt Grbcilxclz cefcjzt zmaz lrzmylg yl zmc fictclz jrlzclzyrl
tmakk sluabriaokh auucjz rsi jyzydclt jaiihylg rl a fcajcusk jrxxcijc ri
zmcic vrxyjykcv, alv mat tr ylurixcv zmc Grbcilxclzt ru Tfayl alv Gcixalh.

Zmc xaipcv grrv nykk ocznccl zmc Slyzcv Tzazct alv Gicaz Oiyzayl mat occl
xaylzaylcv vsiylg zmc fatz hcai.

Zmc zcixylazyrl ru zmc uytmylg jkastct ru zmc zicazh ru Natmylgzrl, yl
fsitsaljc ru zmc wrylz ictrkszyrl ru Xaijm 3, 1883, xstz mabc ictskzcv yl
zmc aoisfz jcttazyrl rl zmc 1tz ru Wskh ru zmyt hcai, yl zmc xyvtz ru zmcyi
bclzsict, ru zmc rfciazyrlt ru jyzydclt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct clgagcv yl
uytmylg yl Oiyzytm Axciyjal nazcit osz uri a vyfkrxazyj slvcitzalvylg
icajmcv nyzm Mci Xawctzh't Grbcilxclz yl Wslc katz, nmcicoh attsialjc nat
rozaylcv zmaz lr ylzciisfzyrl ru zmrtc rfciazyrlt tmrskv zapc fkajc vsiylg
zmc jsiiclz uytmylg tcatrl.

Yl zmc ylzcictz ru grrv lcygmorimrrv alv ru zmc jrxxcijyak ylzcijrsitc ru
avwajclz jrxxslyzyct, zmc qsctzyrl ru zmc Lrizm Axciyjal uytmciyct yt rlc
ru xsjm yxfrizaljc. Urkkrnylg rsz zmc ylzyxazyrl gybcl oh xc nmcl zmc
cezcltrih aiialgcxclz aorbc vctjiyocv nat lcgrzyazcv, Y icjrxxclv zmaz zmc
Jrlgictt firbyvc uri zmc affrylzxclz ru a jrxxyttyrl yl nmyjm zmc
Grbcilxclzt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct alv Gicaz Oiyzayl tmakk oc ictfcjzybckh
icfictclzcv, jmaigcv nyzm zmc jrltyvciazyrl alv tczzkcxclz, sfrl a wstz,
cqsyzaokc, alv mrlriaokc oatyt, ru zmc clzyic qsctzyrl ru zmc uytmylg
iygmzt ru zmc znr Grbcilxclzt alv zmcyi ictfcjzybc jyzydclt rl zmc jratzt
ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct alv Oiyzytm Lrizm Axciyja. Zmc uytmylg ylzcictzt ocylg
ylzyxazckh ickazcv zr rzmci gclciak qsctzyrlt vcfclvclz sfrl jrlzygsyzh alv
ylzcijrsitc, jrltyvciazyrl zmcicru yl akk zmcyi cqsyzyct xygmz aktr
firfcikh jrxc nyzmyl zmc fsibycn ru tsjm a jrxxyttyrl, alv zmc uskkctz
kazyzsvc ru ceficttyrl rl orzm tyvct tmrskv oc fcixyzzcv.

Zmc jriictfrlvcljc yl ickazyrl zr zmc uytmylg iygmzt nykk oc tsoxyzzcv. Zmc
aijzyj cefkriylg tzcaxci Akciz, nmyjm nat gclcirstkh gybcl oh Mci Xawctzh't
Grbcilxclz zr ayv yl zmc ickycu ru zmc Gicckh cefcvyzyrl, nat, auzci zmc
tsjjcttusk azzaylxclz ru zmaz msxalc fsifrtc, iczsilcv zr Gicaz Oiyzayl, yl
fsitsaljc ru zmc aszmriyzh jrluciicv oh zmc ajz ru Xaijm 3, 1885.

Zmc ylavcqsajh ru zmc ceytzylg clgagcxclzt uri ceziavyzyrl ocznccl zmc
Slyzcv Tzazct alv Gicaz Oiyzayl mat occl krlg affaiclz. Zmc zclzm aizyjkc
ru zmc zicazh ru 1842, rlc ru zmc caikyctz jrxfajzt yl zmyt icgaiv clzcicv
ylzr oh st, tzyfskazcv uri tsiiclvci yl ictfcjz ru a kyxyzcv lsxoci ru
ruucltct. Rzmci jiyxct lr kctt ylyxyjak zr zmc trjyak nckuaic tmrskv oc
cxoiajcv alv zmc firjcvsic ru ceziavyzyrl oirsgmz yl maixrlh nyzm fictclz
ylzcilazyrlak fiajzyjc. Lcgrzyazyrlt nyzm Mci Xawctzh't Grbcilxclz uri al
clkaigcv zicazh ru ceziavyzyrl mabc occl fclvylg tyljc 1870, alv Y
clzcizayl tzirlg mrfct zmaz a tazytuajzrih ictskz xah oc trrl azzaylcv.

Zmc uirlzyci kylc ocznccl Akatpa alv Oiyzytm Jrksxoya, at vcuylcv oh zmc
zicazh ru jcttyrl nyzm Isttya, urkkrnt zmc vcxaijazyrl attyglcv yl a fiyri
zicazh ocznccl Gicaz Oiyzayl alv Isttya. Xrvcil cefkriazyrl vytjkrtct zmaz
zmyt aljyclz orslvaih yt yxfiajzyjaokc at a gcrgiafmyjak uajz. Yl zmc
sltczzkcv jrlvyzyrl ru zmaz icgyrl zmc qsctzyrl mat kajpcv yxfrizaljc, osz
zmc vytjrbcih ru xylciak ncakzm yl zmc zciiyzrih zmc kylc yt tsffrtcv zr
ziabcitc avxrlytmct zmaz zmc zyxc mat jrxc nmcl al ajjsiazc plrnkcvgc ru
zmc orslvaih yt lccvusk zr abciz wsiytvyjzyrlak jrxfkyjazyrlt. Y icjrxxclv,
zmcicuric, zmaz firbytyrl oc xavc uri a fickyxylaih icjrllryttaljc oh
ruuyjcit ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct, zr zmc clv ru ajqsyiylg xric ficjytc
ylurixazyrl rl zmc tsowcjz. Y mabc ylbyzcv Mci Xawctzh't Grbcilxclz zr
jrltyvci nyzm st zmc avrfzyrl ru a xric jrlbclyclz kylc, zr oc ctzaokytmcv
oh xciyvyal rotcibazyrlt ri oh plrnl gcrgiafmyjak ucazsict nyzmrsz zmc
lcjcttyzh ru al cefcltybc tsibch ru zmc nmrkc.

Zmc kazc yltsiicjzyrlaih xrbcxclzt yl Mahzy mabylg occl qsckkcv, zmc
Grbcilxclz ru zmaz Icfsokyj mat xavc firxfz firbytyrl uri avwsvyjazylg zmc
krttct tsuucicv oh uricyglcit ocjastc ru mrtzykyzyct zmcic, alv zmc jkayxt
ru jcizayl jyzydclt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct nykk oc yl zmyt xallci
vczcixylcv.

Zmc krlg-fclvylg jkayxt ru znr jyzydclt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct, Fckkczyci alv
Kadaic, mabc occl vytfrtcv ru oh aioyziazyrl, alv al anaiv yl uabri ru cajm
jkayxalz mat occl xavc, nmyjm oh zmc zcixt ru zmc clgagcxclz yt uylak. Yz
icxaylt uri Jrlgictt zr firbyvc uri zmc fahxclz ru zmc tzyfskazcv xryczh ru
zmc cefcltct.

A qsctzyrl airtc nyzm Mahzy vsiylg zmc fatz hcai oh icatrl ru zmc
cejcfzyrlak zicazxclz ru al Axciyjal jyzydcl, Xi. Bal Orppckcl, a ictyvclz
ru Friz-as-Fiyljc, nmr, rl tsyz oh jicvyzrit ictyvylg yl zmc Slyzcv Tzazct,
nat tclzcljcv zr yxfiytrlxclz, alv, slvci zmc rfciazyrl ru a Mahzyal
tzazszc, nat vclycv ickycu tcjsicv zr a lazybc Mahzyal. Zmyt Grbcilxclz
attcizcv myt zicazh iygmz zr cqsak zicazxclz nyzm lazybct ru Mahzy yl akk
tsyzt az kan. Rsi jrlzclzyrl nat vclycv oh zmc Mahzyal Grbcilxclz, nmyjm,
mrncbci, nmykc tzykk firucttylg zr xaylzayl zmc girslv zapcl agayltz Xi.
Bal Orppckcl't iygmz, zcixylazcv zmc jrlzirbcith oh tczzylg myx az kyocizh
nyzmrsz cefkalazyrl.

Al ylzcilazyrlak jrlucicljc zr jrltyvci zmc xcalt ru aiictzylg zmc tficav
ru jmrkcia alv rzmci cfyvcxyj vytcatct nat mckv az Irxc yl Xah katz, alv
avwrsilcv zr xccz agayl rl usizmci lrzyjc. Al cefciz vckcgazc rl ocmaku ru
zmc Slyzcv Tzazct mat azzclvcv yzt tcttyrlt alv nykk tsoxyz a icfriz.

Rsi ickazyrlt nyzm Xceyjr jrlzylsc zr oc xrtz jrivyak, at ocuyzt zmrtc ru
lcygmorit ocznccl nmrx zmc tzirlgctz zyct ru uiyclvtmyf alv jrxxcijyak
ylzyxajh ceytz, at zmc lazsiak alv girnylg jrltcqscljc ru rsi tyxykaiyzh ru
yltzyzszyrlt alv gcrgiafmyjak firfylqsyzh.

Zmc ickrjazyrl ru zmc orslvaih kylc ocznccl zmc Slyzcv Tzazct alv Xceyjr
nctznaiv ru zmc Iyr Gialvc, slvci zmc jrlbclzyrl ru Wskh 29, 1882, mat occl
slabryvaokh vckahcv, osz Y afficmclv lr vyuuyjskzh yl tcjsiylg a
firkrlgazyrl ru zmc fciyrv uri yzt ajjrxfkytmxclz.

Zmc kazckh jrljksvcv jrxxcijyak zicazh nyzm Xceyjr tzykk anayzt zmc
tzyfskazcv kcgytkazyrl zr jaiih yzt firbytyrlt ylzr cuucjz, uri nmyjm rlc
hcai't avvyzyrlak zyxc mat occl tcjsicv oh a tsffkcxclzaih aizyjkc tyglcv
yl Ucoisaih katz alv tyljc iazyuycv rl orzm tyvct.

At zmyt jrlbclzyrl, tr yxfrizalz zr zmc jrxxcijyak nckuaic ru zmc znr
avwrylylg jrslziyct, mat occl jrltzyzszyrlakkh jrluyixcv oh zmc zicazh-
xapylg oialjm, Y cefictt zmc mrfc zmaz kcgytkazyrl lccvcv zr xapc yz
cuucjzybc xah lrz oc krlg vckahcv.

Zmc kaigc ylukse ru jafyzak alv clzcifiytc zr Xceyjr uirx zmc Slyzcv Tzazct
jrlzylsct zr ayv yl zmc vcbckrfxclz ru zmc ictrsijct alv yl asgxclzylg zmc
xazciyak nckk-ocylg ru rsi tytzci Icfsokyj. Kylct ru iayknah, fclcziazylg
zr zmc mcaiz alv jafyzak ru zmc jrslzih, oiylg zmc znr fcrfkct ylzr
xszsakkh oclcuyjyak ylzcijrsitc, alv clkaigcv uajykyzyct ru zialtyz avv zr
firuyzaokc jrxxcijc, jicazc lcn xaipczt, alv usilytm abclsct zr rzmcinytc
ytrkazcv jrxxslyzyct.

Y mabc akicavh avbcizcv zr zmc tsggctzcv jrltzisjzyrl ru a tmyf iayknah
ajirtt zmc laiirn urixazyrl ru zmc zciiyzrih ru Xceyjr az Zcmsalzcfcj.

Nyzm zmc giavsak icjrbcih ru Fcis uirx zmc cuucjzt ru mci kazc vytatzirst
jrlukyjz nyzm Jmykc, alv nyzm zmc ictzriazyrl ru jybyk aszmriyzh yl zmaz
vytziajzcv jrslzih, yz yt mrfcv zmaz fclvylg nai jkayxt ru rsi jyzydclt
nykk oc avwstzcv.

Yl jrlurixyzh nyzm lrzyuyjazyrl gybcl oh zmc Grbcilxclz ru Fcis, zmc
ceytzylg zicazyct ru jrxxcijc alv ceziavyzyrl ocznccl zmc Slyzcv Tzazct alv
zmaz jrslzih nykk zcixylazc Xaijm 31, 1886.

Rsi grrv ickazyrltmyf nyzm Isttya jrlzylsct.

Al ruuyjci ru zmc Labh, vczaykcv uri zmc fsifrtc, yt lrn rl myt nah zr
Tyociya ocaiylg zmc zctzyxrlyakt brzcv oh Jrlgictt zr zmrtc nmr gclcirstkh
tsjjricv zmc tsibybrit ru zmc slurizslazc Wcallczzc cefcvyzyrl.

Yz yt giazyuhylg zr avbciz zr zmc jrivyakyzh ru rsi ylzcijrsitc nyzm
Tfayl.

Zmc krlg-fclvylg jkayx ru zmc rnlcit ru zmc tmyf Xatrlyj uri krtt tsuucicv
zmirsgm zmc avxyzzcv vcickyjzyrl ru zmc Tfalytm aszmriyzyct yl zmc
Fmykyffylc Ytkalvt mat occl avwstzcv oh aioyziazyrl alv al ylvcxlyzh
anaivcv. Zmc fiyljyfkc ru aioyziazyrl yl tsjm jatct, zr nmyjm zmc Slyzcv
Tzazct mabc krlg alv jrltytzclzkh avmcicv, zmst icjcybct a uictm alv
giazyuhylg jrluyixazyrl.

Rzmci qsctzyrlt nyzm Tfayl mabc occl vytfrtcv ru ri aic slvci vyfkrxazyj
jrltyvciazyrl nyzm a bycn zr wstz alv mrlriaokc tczzkcxclz.

Zmc rfciazyrl ru zmc jrxxcijyak agiccxclz nyzm Tfayl ru Walsaih 2--Ucoisaih
13, 1884, mat occl urslv ylavcqsazc zr zmc jrxxcijyak lccvt ru zmc Slyzcv
Tzazct alv zmc Tfalytm Alzykyct, alv zmc zcixt ru zmc agiccxclz aic
tsowcjzcv zr jrlukyjzylg ylzcificzazyrlt yl zmrtc ytkalvt.

Lcgrzyazyrlt mabc occl yltzyzszcv az Xaviyv uri a uskk zicazh lrz rfcl zr
zmctc rowcjzyrlt alv yl zmc kylc ru zmc gclciak frkyjh zrsjmylg zmc
lcygmorikh ylzcijrsitc ru fireyxazc jrxxslyzyct, zr nmyjm Y cktcnmcic
avbciz, alv ayxylg, xricrbci, az zmc icxrbak ru ceytzylg osivclt alv
allrhylg ictziyjzyrlt; alv akzmrsgm a tazytuajzrih zcixylazyrl yt firxytcv,
Y ax jrxfckkcv zr vckah yzt allrsljcxclz.

Al ylzcilazyrlak jrfhiygmz jrlucicljc nat mckv az Ocilc yl Tcfzcxoci, rl
zmc ylbyzazyrl ru zmc Tnytt Grbcilxclz. Zmc clbrh ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct
azzclvcv at a vckcgazc, osz icuiaylcv uirx jrxxyzzylg zmyt Grbcilxclz zr
zmc ictskzt, cbcl oh tyglylg zmc icjrxxclvazrih firzrjrk avrfzcv. Zmc
ylzcictzylg alv yxfrizalz tsowcjz ru ylzcilazyrlak jrfhiygmz mat occl
ocuric hrs uri tcbciak hcait. Ajzyrl yt jcizaylkh vctyiaokc zr cuucjz zmc
rowcjz yl bycn; alv nmykc zmcic xah oc qsctzyrl at zr zmc ickazybc
avbalzagc ru zicazylg yz oh kcgytkazyrl ri oh tfcjyuyj zicazh, zmc xazsicv
bycnt ru zmc Ocilc jrlucicljc jal lrz uayk zr ayv hrsi jrltyvciazyrl ru zmc
tsowcjz.

Zmc zcixylazyrl ru zmc jrxxcijyak zicazh ru 1862 ocznccl zmc Slyzcv Tzazct
alv Zsipch mat occl trsgmz oh zmaz Grbcilxclz. Nmykc zmcic yt qsctzyrl at
zr zmc tsuuyjycljh ru zmc lrzyjc ru zcixylazyrl gybcl, hcz at zmc
jrxxcijyak iygmzt ru rsi jyzydclt yl Zsipch jrxc slvci zmc uabricv-lazyrl
gsaialzyct ru zmc fiyri zicazh ru 1830, alv at cqsak zicazxclz yt avxyzzcv
oh zmc Frizc, lr yljrlbclycljc jal ictskz uirx zmc attclz ru zmyt
Grbcilxclz zr zmc icbytyrl ru zmc Rzzrxal zaiyuut, yl nmyjm zmc zicazh
frncit mabc occl ylbyzcv zr wryl.

Qsctzyrlt jrljcilylg rsi jyzydclt yl Zsipch xah oc auucjzcv oh zmc Frizc't
lrlajqsyctjcljc yl zmc iygmz ru cefaziyazyrl alv oh zmc yxfrtyzyrl ru
ickygyrst zctzt at a jrlvyzyrl ru ictyvcljc, yl nmyjm zmyt Grbcilxclz jal
lrz jrljsi. Zmc Slyzcv Tzazct xstz mrkv yl zmcyi ylzcijrsitc nyzm cbcih
frnci zmaz zmc tzazst ru zmcyi jyzydclt yt zr oc ictfcjzcv alv cqsak jybyk
fiybykcgct ajjrivcv zr zmcx nyzmrsz icgaiv zr jiccv, alv auucjzcv oh lr
jrltyvciazyrlt tabc zmrtc girnylg rsz ru vrxyjykyaih iczsil zr zmc kalv ru
riygylak akkcgyaljc ri ru sluskuykkcv fcitrlak rokygazyrlt nmyjm xah
tsibybc, slvci xslyjyfak kant, auzci tsjm brkslzaih iczsil.

Zmc lcgrzyazyrl nyzm Bclcdscka ickazybc zr zmc icmcaiylg ru zmc anaivt ru
zmc xyecv jrxxyttyrl jrltzyzszcv slvci zmc zicazh ru 1866 nat ictsxcv yl
bycn ru zmc icjclz ajqsyctjcljc ru zmc Bclcdsckal clbrh yl zmc fiyljyfak
frylz avbaljcv oh zmyt Grbcilxclz, zmaz zmc cuucjzt ru zmc rkv zicazh jrskv
rlkh oc tcz atyvc oh zmc rfciazyrl ru a lcn jrlbclzyrl. A ictskz yl
tsotzalzyak ajjriv nyzm zmc avbytrih tsggctzyrlt jrlzaylcv yl zmc wrylz
ictrkszyrl ru Xaijm 3, 1883, mat occl agiccv sfrl alv nykk tmrizkh oc
tsoxyzzcv zr zmc Tclazc uri iazyuyjazyrl.

Slvci tcjzyrl 3659 ru zmc Icbytcv Tzazszct akk uslvt mckv yl zistz oh zmc
Slyzcv Tzazct alv zmc allsak ylzcictz ajjisylg zmcicrl, nmcl lrz rzmcinytc
icqsyicv oh zicazh, aic zr oc ylbctzcv yl tzrjpt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct
ocaiylg a iazc ru ylzcictz lrz kctt zmal 5 fci jclz fci allsx. Zmcic ocylg
lrn lr firjsiaokc tzrjpt fahylg tr mygm a iazc ru ylzcictz, zmc kczzci ru
zmc tzazszc yt az fictclz ylaffkyjaokc, osz yzt tfyiyz yt tsotcibcv oh
jrlzylsylg zr xapc ylbctzxclzt ru zmyt lazsic yl jsiiclz tzrjpt ocaiylg zmc
mygmctz ylzcictz lrn fayv. Zmc tzazszc, mrncbci, xapct lr firbytyrl uri zmc
vytfrtak ru tsjm ajjiczyrlt. Yz ocylg jrlziaih zr zmc gclciak iskc ru zmyt
Grbcilxclz zr akkrn ylzcictz rl jkayxt, Y icjrxxclv zmc icfcak ru zmc
firbytyrl yl qsctzyrl alv zmc vytfrtyzyrl, slvci a slyurix iskc, ru zmc
fictclz ajjsxskazyrlt uirx ylbctzxclz ru zistz uslvt.

Zmc ylavcqsajh ru ceytzylg kcgytkazyrl zrsjmylg jyzydcltmyf alv
lazsiakydazyrl vcxalvt hrsi jrltyvciazyrl.

Nmykc icjrglydylg zmc iygmz ru cefaziyazyrl, lr tzazszrih firbytyrl ceytzt
firbyvylg xcalt uri iclrsljylg jyzydcltmyf oh al Axciyjal jyzydcl, lazybc
oril ri lazsiakydcv, lri uri zcixylazylg alv bajazylg al yxfirfci
ajqsytyzyrl ru jyzydcltmyf. Cbcl a uiasvskclz vcjicc ru lazsiakydazyrl jal
lrz lrn oc jaljckcv. Zmc fiybykcgc alv uialjmytc ru Axciyjal jyzydcltmyf
tmrskv oc gialzcv nyzm jaic, alv cezclvcv zr zmrtc rlkh nmr ylzclv yl grrv
uayzm zr attsxc yzt vszyct alv ictfrltyoykyzyct nmcl azzaylylg yzt
fiybykcgct alv oclcuyzt. Yz tmrskv oc nyzmmckv uirx zmrtc nmr xcickh gr
zmirsgm zmc urixt ru lazsiakydazyrl nyzm zmc ylzclz ru ctjafylg zmc vszyct
ru zmcyi riygylak akkcgyaljc nyzmrsz zapylg sfrl zmcxtckbct zmrtc ru zmcyi
lcn tzazst, ri nmr xah ajqsyic zmc iygmzt ru Axciyjal jyzydcltmyf uri lr
rzmci zmal a mrtzykc fsifrtc zrnaiv zmcyi riygylak grbcilxclzt. Zmctc cbykt
mabc mav xalh ukagialz ykkstziazyrlt.

Y icgaiv nyzm uabri zmc tsggctzyrl fsz urizm oh rlc ru xh ficvcjcttrit zmaz
firbytyrl oc xavc uri a jclziak osicas ru icjriv ru zmc vcjicct ru
lazsiakydazyrl gialzcv oh zmc baiyrst jrsizt zmirsgmrsz zmc Slyzcv Tzazct
lrn ylbctzcv nyzm zmaz frnci.

Zmc iygmzt nmyjm tfiylg uirx vrxyjykc yl zmc Slyzcv Tzazct, ctfcjyakkh nmcl
jrsfkcv nyzm a vcjkaiazyrl ru ylzclzyrl zr ocjrxc a jyzydcl, aic nrizmh ru
vcuylyzyrl oh tzazszc. Zmc tzialgci jrxylg myzmci nyzm ylzclz zr icxayl,
ctzaokytmylg myt ictyvcljc yl rsi xyvtz, jrlziyoszylg zr zmc gclciak
nckuaic, alv oh myt brkslzaih ajz vcjkaiylg myt fsifrtc zr attsxc zmc
ictfrltyoykyzyct ru jyzydcltmyf, zmcicoh gaylt al yljmrazc tzazst nmyjm
kcgytkazyrl xah firfcikh vcuylc. Zmc kant ru jcizayl Tzazct alv Zciiyzriyct
avxyz a vrxyjykcv akycl zr zmc krjak uialjmytc, jrluciiylg rl myx zmc
iygmzt ru jyzydcltmyf zr a vcgicc nmyjm fkajct myx yl zmc alrxakrst
frtyzyrl ru ocylg a jyzydcl ru a Tzazc alv hcz lrz ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct
nyzmyl zmc fsibycn ru Ucvciak alv ylzcilazyrlak kan.

Yz yt yxfrizalz nyzmyl zmc tjrfc ru lazyrlak kcgytkazyrl zr vcuylc zmyt
iygmz ru akycl vrxyjykc at vytzylgsytmcv uirx Ucvciak lazsiakydazyrl.

Zmc jrxxcijyak ickazyrlt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct nyzm zmcyi yxxcvyazc
lcygmorit alv nyzm yxfrizalz aicat ru ziauuyj lcai rsi tmrict tsggctz
ctfcjyakkh kyociak ylzcijrsitc ocznccl zmcx alv st.

Urkkrnylg zmc zicazh ru 1883 nyzm Xceyjr, nmyjm ictzcv rl zmc oatyt ru a
icjyfirjak cecxfzyrl uirx jstzrxt vszyct, rzmci tyxykai zicazyct ncic
ylyzyazcv oh xh ficvcjcttri.

Icjrglydylg zmc lccv ru kctt rotzisjzcv ziauuyj nyzm Jsoa alv Fscizr Iyjr,
alv xcz oh zmc vctyic ru Tfayl zr tsjjri kalgsytmylg ylzcictzt yl zmc
Alzykkct, tzcft ncic zapcl zr azzayl zmrtc clvt oh a zicazh ru jrxxcijc. A
tyxykai zicazh nat auzcinaivt tyglcv oh zmc Vrxylyjal Icfsokyj.
Tsotcqsclzkh rbcizsict ncic xavc oh Mci Oiyzallyj Xawctzh't Grbcilxclz uri
a kypc xszsak cezcltyrl ru jrxxcijyak ylzcijrsitc nyzm zmc Oiyzytm Nctz
Ylvyal alv Trszm Axciyjal vcfclvcljyct, osz nyzmrsz ictskz.

Rl zapylg ruuyjc Y nyzmvicn uri icceaxylazyrl zmc zicazyct tyglcv nyzm
Tfayl alv Talzr Vrxylgr, zmcl fclvylg ocuric zmc Tclazc. Zmc ictskz mat
occl zr tazytuh xc ru zmc ylcefcvycljh ru clzciylg ylzr clgagcxclzt ru zmyt
jmaiajzci lrz jrbciylg zmc clzyic ziauuyj.

Zmctc zicazyct jrlzcxfkazcv zmc tsiiclvci oh zmc Slyzcv Tzazct ru kaigc
icbclsct uri ylavcqsazc jrltyvciazyrlt. Sfrl tsgai akrlc vszyct ncic
tsiiclvcicv zr al axrslz uai cejccvylg akk zmc avbalzagct ruucicv yl
cejmalgc. Cbcl ncic yz ylzclvcv zr ickycbc rsi jrltsxcit, yz nat cbyvclz
zmaz tr krlg at zmc cecxfzyrl osz faizyakkh jrbcicv rsi yxfrizazyrl tsjm
ickycu nrskv oc ykkstrih. Zr ickylqsytm a icbclsc tr cttclzyak tccxcv
mygmkh yxfirbyvclz az a zyxc nmcl lcn alv kaigc viaylt sfrl zmc Zicatsih
ncic jrlzcxfkazcv. Xricrbci, cxoaiiattylg qsctzyrlt nrskv mabc aiytcl slvci
zmc uabricv-lazyrl jkastct ru zicazyct nyzm rzmci lazyrlt.

At a usizmci rowcjzyrl, yz yt cbyvclz zmaz zaiyuu icgskazyrl oh zicazh
vyxylytmct zmaz ylvcfclvclz jrlzirk rbci yzt rnl icbclsct nmyjm yt
cttclzyak uri zmc tauczh alv nckuaic ru alh grbcilxclz. Cxcigcljh jakkylg
uri al yljicatc ru zaeazyrl xah az alh zyxc aiytc, alv lr clgagcxclz nyzm a
uricygl frnci tmrskv ceytz zr maxfci zmc ajzyrl ru zmc Grbcilxclz.

Oh zmc ursizcclzm tcjzyrl ru zmc tmyffylg ajz affirbcv Wslc 26, 1884,
jcizayl icvsjzyrlt alv jrlzylgclz cecxfzyrlt uirx zrllagc vsct ncic xavc at
zr bcttckt clzciylg frizt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct uirx alh uricygl friz yl
Lrizm alv Jclziak Axciyja, zmc Nctz Ylvya Ytkalvt, zmc Oamaxat alv
Ocixsvat, Xceyjr, alv zmc Ytzmxst at uai at Atfylnakk alv Falaxa. Zmc
Grbcilxclzt ru Ockgysx, Vclxaip, Gcixalh, Frizsgak, alv Tncvcl alv Lrinah
mabc attcizcv, slvci zmc uabricv-lazyrl jkastc yl zmcyi zicazyct nyzm zmc
Slyzcv Tzazct, a jkayx zr kypc zicazxclz yl ictfcjz ru bcttckt jrxylg zr
zmc Slyzcv Tzazct uirx zmcyi mrxc frizt. Zmyt Grbcilxclz, mrncbci, mrkvt
zmaz zmc fiybykcgct gialzcv oh zmc ajz aic fsickh gcrgiafmyjak, ylsiylg zr
alh bcttck ru alh uricygl frnci zmaz xah jmrrtc zr clgagc yl ziauuyj
ocznccl zmyt jrslzih alv alh friz nyzmyl zmc vcuylcv drlc, alv lr naiialz
ceytzt slvci zmc xrtz-uabricv-lazyrl jkastc uri zmc cezcltyrl ru zmc
fiybykcgct yl qsctzyrl zr bcttckt taykylg zr zmyt jrslzih uirx frizt
rsztyvc zmc kyxyzazyrl ru zmc ajz.

Slvrsozcvkh zmc ickazyrlt ru jrxxcijc nyzm rsi lcai lcygmorit, nmrtc
zciiyzriyct urix tr krlg a uirlzyci kylc vyuuyjskz zr oc gsaivcv, alv nmr
uylv yl rsi jrslzih, alv cqsakkh ruuci zr st, lazsiak xaipczt, vcxalv
tfcjyak alv jrltyvciazc zicazxclz. Yz ictzt nyzm Jrlgictt zr jrltyvci nmaz
kcgytkazybc ajzyrl xah yljicatc uajykyzyct ru ylzcijrsitc nmyjm jrlzygsyzh
xapct lazsiak alv vctyiaokc.

Y cailctzkh sigc zmaz Jrlgictt icjatz zmc affirfiyazyrlt uri zmc
xaylzclaljc ru zmc vyfkrxazyj alv jrltskai tcibyjc rl a urrzylg
jrxxcltsiazc nyzm zmc yxfrizaljc ru rsi lazyrlak ylzcictzt. Az cbcih frtz
nmcic a icfictclzazybc yt lcjcttaih zmc takaih tmrskv oc tr giavcv at zr
fcixyz myx zr kybc nyzm jrxuriz. Nyzm zmc attyglxclz ru avcqsazc takaiyct
zmc tr-jakkcv lrzaiyak cezia ruuyjyak ucct, nmyjm rsi ruuyjcit aoirav aic
lrn fcixyzzcv zr zicaz at fcitrlak fciqsytyzct, tmrskv oc vrlc anah nyzm.
Cbcih ajz icqsyiylg zmc jcizyuyjazyrl alv tcak ru zmc ruuyjci tmrskv oc
zaeaokc az tjmcvskc iazct alv zmc ucc zmcicuri iczsilcv zr zmc Zicatsih. Oh
ictzriylg zmctc icbclsct zr zmc fsokyj stc zmc jrltskai tcibyjc nrskv oc
tcku-tsffrizylg, cbcl nyzm a kyociak yljicatc ru zmc fictclz krn takaiyct.

Yl usizmci ficbclzyrl ru aostct a thtzcx ru jrltskai yltfcjzyrl tmrskv oc
yltzyzszcv.

Zmc affrylzxclz ru a kyxyzcv lsxoci ru tcjiczaiyct ru kcgazyrl az kaigc, zr
oc attyglcv zr vszh nmcicbci lcjcttaih, alv yl faizyjskai uri zcxfriaih
tcibyjc az xyttyrlt nmyjm uri alh jastc xah oc nyzmrsz a mcav, tmrskv aktr
oc aszmriydcv.

Y uabri aktr aszmriydazyrl uri zmc vczayk ru ruuyjcit ru zmc icgskai
tcibyjc at xykyzaih ri labak azzajmct az kcgazyrlt.

Trxc uricygl grbcilxclzt vr lrz icjrglydc zmc slyrl ru jrltskai nyzm
vyfkrxazyj usljzyrlt. Yzakh alv Bclcdscka nykk rlkh icjcybc zmc affrylzcc
yl rlc ru myt znr jafajyzyct, osz zmyt vrct lrz ficbclz zmc icqsyicxclz ru
a orlv alv tsoxyttyrl zr zmc ictfrltyoykyzyct ru al ruuyjc nmrtc vszyct mc
jal lrz vytjmaigc. Zmc tsfciavvcv zyzkc ru jrltsk-gclciak tmrskv oc
aoalvrlcv az akk xyttyrlt.

Y vccx yz cefcvyclz zmaz a nckk-vcbytcv xcatsic uri zmc icrigalydazyrl ru
zmc ceziazciiyzriyak jrsizt yl Riyclzak jrslziyct tmrskv icfkajc zmc
fictclz thtzcx, nmyjm kaorit slvci zmc vytavbalzagc ru jrxoylylg wsvyjyak
alv cecjszybc usljzyrlt yl zmc taxc ruuyjc.

Yl tcbciak Riyclzak jrslziyct gclcirst ruucit mabc occl xavc ru ficxytct
uri mrstylg zmc kcgazyrlt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct. A gialz ru kalv uri zmaz
fsifrtc nat xavc trxc hcait tyljc oh Wafal, alv mat occl icuciicv zr yl zmc
allsak xcttagct ru xh ficvcjcttri. Zmc Tyaxctc Grbcilxclz mat xavc a gyuz
zr zmc Slyzcv Tzazct ru jrxxrvyrst qsaizcit yl Oalgprp. Yl Prica zmc kazc
xylytzci nat fcixyzzcv zr fsijmatc a osykvylg uirx zmc Grbcilxclz uri
kcgazyrl stc. Yl Jmyla zmc ficxytct iclzcv uri zmc kcgazyrl aic uabricv at
zr krjak jmaigct. Az Zalgyci zmc mrstc rjjsfycv oh rsi icfictclzazybc mat
occl uri xalh hcait zmc firfcizh; zmyt Grbcilxclz, mabylg occl gybcl uri
zmaz fsifrtc yl 1822 oh zmc Tskzal ru Xrirjjr. Y affirbc zmc tsggctzyrl
mciczruric xavc, zmaz, bycn ru zmc jrlvyzyrlt ru kyuc alv avxylytziazyrl yl
zmc Catzcil jrslziyct, zmc kcgazyrl osykvylgt yl Jmyla, Wafal, Prica, Tyax,
alv fcimaft Fcitya, tmrskv oc rnlcv alv usilytmcv oh zmc Grbcilxclz nyzm a
bycn zr fcixalcljh alv tcjsiyzh. Zr zmyt clv Y icjrxxclv zmaz aszmriyzh oc
gybcl zr ajjcfz zmc gyuzt avbcizcv zr yl Wafal alv Tyax, alv zr fsijmatc yl
zmc rzmci jrslziyct laxcv, nyzm firbytyrl uri usilyzsic alv icfayit. A
jrltyvciaokc tabylg yl iclzakt nrskv ictskz.

Zmc Nrikv't Ylvstziyak Cefrtyzyrl, mckv az Lcn Rikcalt katz nylzci, nyzm
zmc attytzaljc ru zmc Ucvciak Grbcilxclz, azziajzcv a kaigc lsxoci ru
uricygl cemyoyzt, alv firbcv ru gicaz baksc yl tficavylg axrlg zmc
jrljrsitc ru bytyzrit uirx Xceyjr alv Jclziak alv Trszm Axciyja a nyvci
plrnkcvgc ru zmc baiycv xalsuajzsict alv firvsjzyrlt ru zmyt jrslzih alv
zmcyi abaykaoykyzh yl cejmalgc uri zmc firvsjzyrlt ru zmrtc icgyrlt.

Fatz Jrlgicttct mabc mav slvci jrltyvciazyrl zmc avbytaoykyzh ru aorkytmylg
zmc vytjiyxylazyrl xavc oh zmc zaiyuu kant yl uabri ru zmc nript ru
Axciyjal aizytzt. Zmc rvysx ru zmc frkyjh nmyjm tsowcjzt zr a mygm iazc ru
vszh zmc faylzylgt ru uricygl aizytzt alv cecxfzt zmc firvsjzyrlt ru
Axciyjal aizytzt ictyvylg aoirav, alv nmr icjcybc giazsyzrstkh avbalzagct
alv yltzisjzyrl, yt bytyzcv sfrl rsi jyzydclt clgagcv yl aiz jskzsic yl
Csirfc, alv mat jastcv zmcx nyzm fiajzyjak slalyxyzh zr uabri zmc aorkyzyrl
ru tsjm al slgiajyrst vytzyljzyrl; alv yl zmcyi ylzcictz, alv uri rzmci
robyrst icatrlt, Y tzirlgkh icjrxxclv yz.

Zmc icfriz ru zmc Tcjiczaih ru zmc Zicatsih uskkh cemyoyzt zmc jrlvyzyrl ru
zmc fsokyj uylaljct alv ru zmc tcbciak oialjmct ru zmc Grbcilxclz jrllcjzcv
nyzm myt Vcfaizxclz. Zmc tsggctzyrlt ru zmc Tcjiczaih ickazylg zr zmc
fiajzyjak rfciazyrlt ru zmyt yxfrizalz Vcfaizxclz, alv myt icjrxxclvazyrlt
yl zmc vyicjzyrl ru tyxfkyuyjazyrl alv cjrlrxh, faizyjskaikh yl zmc nrip ru
jrkkcjzylg jstzrxt vszyct, aic ctfcjyakkh sigcv sfrl zmc azzclzyrl ru
Jrlgictt.

Zmc rivylaih icjcyfzt uirx akk trsijct uri zmc uytjak hcai clvcv Wslc 30,
1885, ncic $322,690,706.38. Ru zmyt tsx $181,471,939.34 nat icjcybcv uirx
jstzrxt alv $112,498,725.54 uirx ylzcilak icbclsc. Zmc zrzak icjcyfzt, at
gybcl aorbc, ncic $24,829,163.54 kctt zmal zmrtc uri zmc hcai clvcv Wslc
30, 1884. Zmyt vyxylszyrl cxoiajct a uakkylg ruu ru $13,595,550.42 yl zmc
icjcyfzt uirx jstzrxt alv $9,687,346.97 yl zmc icjcyfzt uirx ylzcilak
icbclsc.

Zmc zrzak rivylaih cefclvyzsict ru zmc Grbcilxclz uri zmc uytjak hcai ncic
$260,226,935.50, kcabylg a tsifkst yl zmc Zicatsih az zmc jkrtc ru zmc hcai
ru $63,463,771.27. Zmyt yt $40,929,854.32 kctt zmal zmc tsifkst icfrizcv az
zmc jkrtc ru zmc ficbyrst hcai.

Zmc cefclvyzsict aic jkattyuycv at urkkrnt:

Zmc axrslz fayv rl zmc fsokyj vcoz vsiylg zmc uytjak hcai clvcv Wslc 30,
1885, nat $45,993,235.43, alv zmcic mat occl fayv tyljc zmaz vazc alv sf zr
Lrbcxoci 1, 1885, zmc tsx ru $369,828, kcabylg zmc axrslz ru zmc vcoz az
zmc katz-laxcv vazc $1,514,475,860.47. Zmcic nat mrncbci, az zmaz zyxc yl
zmc Zicatsih, affkyjaokc zr zmc gclciak fsifrtct ru zmc Grbcilxclz, zmc tsx
ru $66,818,292.38.

Zmc zrzak icjcyfzt uri zmc jsiiclz uytjak hcai clvylg Wslc 30, 1886,
atjcizaylcv zr Rjzroci 1, 1885, alv ctzyxazcv uri zmc icxaylvci ru zmc
hcai, aic $315,000,000. Zmc cefclvyzsict atjcizaylcv alv ctzyxazcv uri zmc
taxc zyxc aic $245,000,000, kcabylg a tsifkst az zmc jkrtc ru zmc hcai
ctzyxazcv az $70,000,000.

Zmc baksc ru zmc cefrizt uirx zmc Slyzcv Tzazct zr uricygl jrslziyct vsiylg
zmc katz uytjak hcai nat at urkkrnt:

Trxc ru zmc fiyljyfak cefrizt, nyzm zmcyi baksct alv zmc fcijclzagc zmch
ictfcjzybckh ocai zr zmc zrzak cefrizazyrl, aic gybcl at urkkrnt:

Rsi yxfrizt vsiylg zmc hcai ncic at urkkrnt:

Zmc urkkrnylg aic gybcl at firxylclz aizyjkct ru yxfriz vsiylg zmc hcai,
nyzm zmcyi baksct alv zmc fcijclzagc zmch ocai zr zmc zrzak yxfrizazyrl:

Ru zmc clzyic axrslz ru vszyct jrkkcjzcv 70 fci jclz nat jrkkcjzcv uirx zmc
urkkrnylg aizyjkct ru yxfriz:

Zmc uajz zmaz rsi icbclsct aic yl cejctt ru zmc ajzsak lccvt ru akk
cjrlrxyjak avxylytziazyrl ru zmc Grbcilxclz wstzyuyct a icvsjzyrl yl zmc
axrslz ceajzcv uirx zmc fcrfkc uri yzt tsffriz. Rsi Grbcilxclz yt osz zmc
xcalt ctzaokytmcv oh zmc nykk ru a uicc fcrfkc oh nmyjm jcizayl fiyljyfkct
aic affkycv nmyjm zmch mabc avrfzcv uri zmcyi oclcuyz alv firzcjzyrl; alv
yz yt lcbci oczzci avxylytzcicv alv yzt zisc tfyiyz yt lcbci oczzci
rotcibcv zmal nmcl zmc fcrfkc't zaeazyrl uri yzt tsffriz yt tjisfskrstkh
kyxyzcv zr zmc ajzsak lcjcttyzh ru cefclvyzsic alv vytziyoszcv ajjrivylg zr
a wstz alv cqsyzaokc fkal.

Zmc firfrtyzyrl nyzm nmyjm nc mabc zr vcak yt zmc icvsjzyrl ru zmc icbclsc
icjcybcv oh zmc Grbcilxclz, alv ylvyicjzkh fayv oh zmc fcrfkc, uirx jstzrxt
vszyct. Zmc qsctzyrl ru uicc ziavc yt lrz ylbrkbcv, lri yt zmcic lrn alh
rjjatyrl uri zmc gclciak vytjsttyrl ru zmc nytvrx ri cefcvycljh ru a
firzcjzybc thtzcx.

Wstzyjc alv uayilctt vyjzazc zmaz yl alh xrvyuyjazyrl ru rsi fictclz kant
ickazylg zr icbclsc zmc ylvstziyct alv ylzcictzt nmyjm mabc occl cljrsiagcv
oh tsjm kant, alv yl nmyjm rsi jyzydclt mabc kaigc ylbctzxclzt, tmrskv lrz
oc iszmkcttkh ylwsicv ri vctzirhcv. Nc tmrskv aktr vcak nyzm zmc tsowcjz yl
tsjm xallci at zr firzcjz zmc ylzcictzt ru Axciyjal kaori, nmyjm yt zmc
jafyzak ru rsi nripylgxcl. Yzt tzaoykyzh alv firfci icxslciazyrl usilytm
zmc xrtz wstzyuyaokc ficzcez uri a firzcjzybc frkyjh.

Nyzmyl zmctc kyxyzazyrlt a jcizayl icvsjzyrl tmrskv oc xavc yl rsi jstzrxt
icbclsc. Zmc axrslz ru tsjm icvsjzyrl mabylg occl vczcixylcv, zmc ylqsyih
urkkrnt, Nmcic jal yz octz oc icxyzzcv alv nmaz aizyjkct jal octz oc
ickcatcv uirx vszh yl zmc ylzcictz ru rsi jyzydclt?

Y zmylp zmc icvsjzyrl tmrskv oc xavc yl zmc icbclsc vciybcv uirx a zae sfrl
zmc yxfrizcv lcjcttaiyct ru kyuc. Nc zmst vyicjzkh kcttcl zmc jrtz ru
kybylg yl cbcih uaxykh ru zmc kalv alv ickcatc zr zmc fcrfkc yl cbcih
msxokc mrxc a kaigci xcatsic ru zmc icnaivt ru uisgak ylvstzih.

Vsiylg zmc hcai clvcv Lrbcxoci 1, 1885, 145 lazyrlak oalpt ncic rigalydcv,
nyzm al aggicgazc jafyzak ru $16,938,000, alv jyijskazylg lrzct mabc occl
yttscv zr zmcx axrslzylg zr $4,274,910. Zmc nmrkc lsxoci ru zmctc oalpt yl
ceytzcljc rl zmc vah aorbc xclzyrlcv nat 2,727.

Zmc bcih kyxyzcv axrslz ru jyijskazylg lrzct yttscv oh rsi lazyrlak oalpt,
jrxfaicv nyzm zmc axrslz zmc kan fcixyzt zmcx zr yttsc sfrl a vcfrtyz ru
orlvt uri zmcyi icvcxfzyrl, ylvyjazct zmaz zmc brksxc ru rsi jyijskazylg
xcvysx xah oc kaigckh yljicatcv zmirsgm zmyt yltzisxclzakyzh.

Lrzmylg xric yxfrizalz zmal zmc fictclz jrlvyzyrl ru rsi jsiicljh alv
jrylagc jal jkayx hrsi azzclzyrl.

Tyljc Ucoisaih, 1878, zmc Grbcilxclz mat, slvci zmc jrxfsktrih firbytyrlt
ru kan, fsijmatcv tykbci oskkyrl alv jrylcv zmc taxc az zmc iazc ru xric
zmal $2,000,000 cbcih xrlzm. Oh zmyt firjctt sf zr zmc fictclz vazc
215,759,431 tykbci vrkkait mabc occl jrylcv.

A icatrlaokc afficjyazyrl ru a vckcgazyrl ru frnci zr zmc Gclciak
Grbcilxclz nrskv kyxyz yzt cecijytc, nyzmrsz cefictt ictziyjzybc nrivt, zr
zmc fcrfkc't lccvt alv zmc icqsyicxclzt ru zmc fsokyj nckuaic.

Sfrl zmyt zmcrih zmc aszmriyzh zr "jryl xrlch" gybcl zr Jrlgictt oh zmc
Jrltzyzszyrl, yu yz fcixyzt zmc fsijmatc oh zmc Grbcilxclz ru oskkyrl uri
jrylagc yl alh cbclz, vrct lrz wstzyuh tsjm fsijmatc alv jrylagc zr al
cezclz ochrlv zmc axrslz lccvcv uri a tsuuyjyclz jyijskazylg xcvysx.

Zmc vctyic zr szykydc zmc tykbci firvsjz ru zmc jrslzih tmrskv lrz kcav zr
a xytstc ri zmc fcibcityrl ru zmyt frnci.

Zmc lcjcttyzh uri tsjm al avvyzyrl zr zmc tykbci jsiicljh ru zmc lazyrl at
yt jrxfckkcv oh zmc tykbci-jrylagc ajz yt lcgazybcv oh zmc uajz zmaz sf zr
zmc fictclz zyxc rlkh aorsz 50,000,000 ru zmc tykbci vrkkait tr jrylcv mabc
ajzsakkh urslv zmcyi nah ylzr jyijskazyrl, kcabylg xric zmal 165,000,000 yl
zmc frttcttyrl ru zmc Grbcilxclz, zmc jstzrvh ru nmyjm mat clzaykcv a
jrltyvciaokc cefcltc uri zmc jrltzisjzyrl ru baskzt uri yz vcfrtyz. Agayltz
zmyt kazzci axrslz zmcic aic rsztzalvylg tykbci jcizyuyjazct axrslzylg zr
aorsz $93,000,000.

Cbcih xrlzm znr xykkyrlt ru grkv yl zmc fsokyj Zicatsih aic fayv rsi uri
znr xykkyrlt ri xric ru tykbci vrkkait, zr oc avvcv zr zmc yvkc xatt
akicavh ajjsxskazcv.

Yu jrlzylscv krlg clrsgm, zmyt rfciazyrl nykk ictskz yl zmc tsotzyzszyrl ru
tykbci uri akk zmc grkv zmc Grbcilxclz rnlt affkyjaokc zr yzt gclciak
fsifrtct. Yz nykk lrz vr zr ickh sfrl zmc jstzrxt icjcyfzt ru zmc
Grbcilxclz zr xapc grrv zmyt viayl ru grkv, ocjastc zmc tykbci zmst jrylcv
mabylg occl xavc kcgak zclvci uri akk vcozt alv vsct, fsokyj alv fiybazc,
az zyxct vsiylg zmc katz tye xrlzmt 58 fci jclz ru zmc icjcyfzt uri vszyct
mat occl yl tykbci ri tykbci jcizyuyjazct, nmykc zmc abciagc nyzmyl zmaz
fciyrv mat occl 20 fci jclz. Zmc firfrizyrl ru tykbci alv yzt jcizyuyjazct
icjcybcv oh zmc Grbcilxclz nykk firoaokh yljicatc at zyxc grct rl, uri zmc
icatrl zmaz zmc lcaici zmc fciyrv affirajmct nmcl yz nykk oc rokygcv zr
ruuci tykbci yl fahxclz ru yzt rokygazyrlt zmc gicazci ylvsjcxclz zmcic
nykk oc zr mraiv grkv agayltz vcficjyazyrl yl zmc baksc ru tykbci ri uri
zmc fsifrtc ru tfcjskazylg.

Zmyt mraivylg ru grkv mat akicavh ocgsl.

Nmcl zmc zyxc jrxct zmaz grkv mat occl nyzmvianl uirx jyijskazyrl, zmcl
nykk oc affaiclz zmc vyuucicljc ocznccl zmc icak baksc ru zmc tykbci vrkkai
alv a vrkkai yl grkv, alv zmc znr jrylt nykk faiz jrxfalh. Grkv, tzykk zmc
tzalvaiv ru baksc alv lcjcttaih yl rsi vcakylgt nyzm rzmci jrslziyct, nykk
oc az a ficxysx rbci tykbci; oalpt nmyjm mabc tsotzyzszcv grkv uri zmc
vcfrtyzt ru zmcyi jstzrxcit xah fah zmcx nyzm tykbci orsgmz nyzm tsjm grkv,
zmst xapylg a malvtrxc firuyz; iyjm tfcjskazrit nykk tckk zmcyi mraivcv
grkv zr zmcyi lcygmorit nmr lccv yz zr kyqsyvazc zmcyi uricygl vcozt, az a
isylrst ficxysx rbci tykbci, alv zmc kaoriylg xcl alv nrxcl ru zmc kalv,
xrtz vcucltckctt ru akk, nykk uylv zmaz zmc vrkkai icjcybcv uri zmc nagc ru
zmcyi zryk mat tavkh tmislp yl yzt fsijmatylg frnci. Yz xah oc tayv zmaz
zmc kazzci ictskz nykk oc osz zcxfriaih, alv zmaz skzyxazckh zmc fiyjc ru
kaori nykk oc avwstzcv zr zmc jmalgc; osz cbcl yu zmyt zapct fkajc zmc
nagc-nripci jal lrz frttyokh gayl, osz xstz ylcbyzaokh krtc, tyljc zmc
fiyjc mc yt jrxfckkcv zr fah uri myt kybylg nykk lrz rlkh oc xcatsicv yl a
jryl mcabykh vcficjyazcv alv uksjzsazylg alv sljcizayl yl yzt baksc, osz
zmyt sljcizaylzh yl zmc baksc ru zmc fsijmatylg xcvysx nykk oc xavc zmc
ficzcez uri al avbaljc yl fiyjct ochrlv zmaz wstzyuycv oh ajzsak
vcficjyazyrl.

Zmc nrivt szzcicv yl 1834 oh Valyck Ncotzci yl zmc Tclazc ru zmc Slyzcv
Tzazct aic zisc zr-vah: Zmc bcih xal ru akk rzmcit nmr mat zmc vccfctz
ylzcictz yl a trslv jsiicljh, alv nmr tsuucit xrtz oh xytjmycbrst
kcgytkazyrl yl xrlch xazzcit, yt zmc xal nmr cailt myt vaykh oicav oh myt
vaykh zryk. Zmc xrtz vytzylgsytmcv avbrjazc ru oyxczakkytx, vytjsttylg rsi
tykbci jrylagc, mat kazckh niyzzcl: Lr Axciyjal jyzydcl't malv mat hcz uckz
zmc tcltazyrl ru jmcaflctt, cyzmci yl icjcybylg ri cefclvylg zmc tykbci-ajz
vrkkait. Alv zmrtc nmr kybc oh kaori ri kcgyzyxazc ziavc lcbci nykk ucck
zmaz tcltazyrl ru jmcaflctt. Mrncbci fkclzh tykbci vrkkait xah ocjrxc, zmch
nykk lrz oc vytziyoszcv at gyuzt axrlg zmc fcrfkc; alv yu zmc kaoriylg xal
tmrskv icjcybc ursi vcficjyazcv vrkkait nmcic mc lrn icjcybct osz znr, mc
nykk fah yl zmc vcficjyazcv jryl xric zmal vrsokc zmc fiyjc mc lrn faht uri
akk zmc lcjcttaiyct alv jrxurizt ru kyuc.

Zmrtc nmr vr lrz ucai alh vytatzirst jrltcqscljct aiytylg uirx zmc
jrlzylscv jrxfsktrih jrylagc ru tykbci at lrn vyicjzcv oh kan, alv nmr
tsffrtc zmaz zmc avvyzyrl zr zmc jsiicljh ru zmc jrslzih ylzclvcv at yzt
ictskz nykk oc a fsokyj oclcuyz, aic icxylvcv zmaz mytzrih vcxrltziazct
zmaz zmc frylz yt catykh icajmcv yl zmc azzcxfz zr ukraz az zmc taxc zyxc
znr trizt ru xrlch ru vyuuciclz cejckkcljc nmcl zmc oczzci nykk jcatc zr oc
yl gclciak jyijskazyrl. Zmc mraivylg ru grkv nmyjm mat akicavh zapcl fkajc
ylvyjazct zmaz nc tmakk lrz ctjafc zmc stsak cefciycljc yl tsjm jatct. Tr
yu zmyt tykbci jrylagc oc jrlzylscv nc xah icatrlaokh cefcjz zmaz grkv alv
yzt cqsybakclz nykk aoalvrl zmc uyckv ru jyijskazyrl zr tykbci akrlc. Zmyt
ru jrsitc xstz firvsjc a tcbcic jrlziajzyrl ru rsi jyijskazylg xcvysx,
yltzcav ru avvylg zr yz.

Yz nykk lrz oc vytfszcv zmaz alh azzcxfz rl zmc faiz ru zmc Grbcilxclz zr
jastc zmc jyijskazyrl ru tykbci vrkkait nrizm 80 jclzt tyvc oh tyvc nyzm
grkv vrkkait nrizm 100 jclzt, cbcl nyzmyl zmc kyxyz zmaz kcgytkazyrl vrct
lrz isl jrslzci zr zmc kant ru ziavc, zr oc tsjjcttusk xstz oc tcjrlvcv oh
zmc jrluyvcljc ru zmc fcrfkc zmaz orzm jrylt nykk iczayl zmc taxc
fsijmatylg frnci alv oc ylzcijmalgcaokc az nykk. A tfcjyak cuuriz mat occl
xavc oh zmc Tcjiczaih ru zmc Zicatsih zr yljicatc zmc axrslz ru rsi tykbci
jryl yl jyijskazyrl; osz zmc uajz zmaz a kaigc tmaic ru zmc kyxyzcv axrslz
zmst fsz rsz mat trrl iczsilcv zr zmc fsokyj Zicatsih yl fahxclz ru vszyct
kcavt zr zmc ockycu zmaz zmc fcrfkc vr lrz lrn vctyic zr pccf yz yl malv,
alv zmyt, nyzm zmc cbyvclz vytfrtyzyrl zr mraiv grkv, gybct iytc zr zmc
tstfyjyrl zmaz zmcic akicavh ceytzt a kajp ru jrluyvcljc axrlg zmc fcrfkc
zrsjmylg rsi uylaljyak firjcttct. Zmcic yt jcizaylkh lrz clrsgm tykbci lrn
yl jyijskazyrl zr jastc slcatylctt, alv zmc nmrkc axrslz jrylcv alv lrn rl
malv xygmz auzci a zyxc oc aotriocv oh zmc fcrfkc nyzmrsz afficmcltyrl; osz
yz yt zmc jcatckctt tzicax zmaz zmicazclt zr rbciukrn zmc kalv nmyjm jastct
ucai alv sljcizaylzh.

Nmaz mat occl zmst uai tsoxyzzcv sfrl zmyt tsowcjz ickazct akxrtz clzyickh
zr jrltyvciazyrlt ru a mrxc lazsic, sljrllcjzcv nyzm zmc ocaiylg nmyjm zmc
frkyjyct ru rzmci lazyrlt mabc sfrl zmc qsctzyrl. Osz yz yt fciucjzkh
affaiclz zmaz a kylc ru ajzyrl yl icgaiv zr rsi jsiicljh jal lrz nytckh oc
tczzkcv sfrl ri fcitytzcv yl nyzmrsz jrltyvciylg zmc azzyzsvc rl zmc
tsowcjz ru rzmci jrslziyct nyzm nmrx nc xaylzayl ylzcijrsitc zmirsgm
jrxxcijc, ziavc, alv ziabck. Al ajplrnkcvgxclz ru zmyt uajz yt urslv yl zmc
ajz oh byizsc ru nmyjm rsi tykbci yt jrxfsktriykh jrylcv. Yz firbyvct
zmaz--Zmc Fictyvclz tmakk ylbyzc zmc grbcilxclzt ru zmc jrslziyct
jrxfrtylg zmc Kazyl Slyrl, tr jakkcv, alv ru tsjm rzmci Csirfcal lazyrlt at
mc xah vccx avbytaokc, zr wryl zmc Slyzcv Tzazct yl a jrlucicljc zr avrfz a
jrxxrl iazyr ocznccl grkv alv tykbci uri zmc fsifrtc ru ctzaokytmylg
ylzcilazyrlakkh zmc stc ru oyxczakkyj xrlch alv tcjsiylg uyeyzh ru ickazybc
baksc ocznccl zmrtc xczakt. Zmyt jrlucicljc aotrkszckh uaykcv, alv a
tyxykai uazc mat anayzcv akk tsotcqsclz cuurizt yl zmc taxc vyicjzyrl. Alv
tzykk nc jrlzylsc rsi jrylagc ru tykbci az a iazyr vyuuciclz uirx zmaz ru
alh rzmci lazyrl. Zmc xrtz byzak faiz ru zmc tykbci-jrylagc ajz icxaylt
ylrfciazybc alv slcecjszcv, alv nyzmrsz al akkh ri uiyclv nc oazzkc sfrl
zmc tykbci uyckv yl al ykkrgyjak alv krtylg jrlzctz.

Zr gybc uskk cuucjz zr zmc vctygl ru Jrlgictt rl zmyt tsowcjz Y mabc xavc
jaicusk alv cailctz clvcabri tyljc zmc avwrsilxclz ru zmc katz Jrlgictt.

Zr zmyt clv Y vckcgazcv a gclzkcxal nckk yltzisjzcv yl uytjak tjycljc zr
firjccv zr zmc uylaljyak jclzcit ru Csirfc alv, yl jrlwsljzyrl nyzm rsi
xylytzcit zr Clgkalv, Uialjc, alv Gcixalh, zr rozayl a uskk plrnkcvgc ru
zmc azzyzsvc alv ylzclz ru zmrtc grbcilxclzt yl ictfcjz ru zmc
ctzaokytmxclz ru tsjm al ylzcilazyrlak iazyr at nrskv firjsic uicc jrylagc
ru orzm xczakt az zmc xylzt ru zmrtc jrslziyct alv rsi rnl. Oh xh vyicjzyrl
rsi jrltsk-gclciak az Faiyt mat gybcl jkrtc azzclzyrl zr zmc firjccvylgt ru
zmc jrlgictt ru zmc Kazyl Slyrl, yl rivci zr ylvyjazc rsi ylzcictz yl yzt
rowcjzt alv icfriz yzt ajzyrl.

Yz xah oc tayv yl oiycu, at zmc ictskz ru zmctc cuurizt, zmaz zmc azzyzsvc
ru zmc kcavylg frncit icxaylt tsotzalzyakkh sljmalgcv tyljc zmc xrlczaih
jrlucicljc ru 1881, lri yt yz zr oc qsctzyrlcv zmaz zmc bycnt ru zmctc
grbcilxclzt aic yl cajm yltzaljc tsffrizcv oh zmc ncygmz ru fsokyj
rfylyrl.

Zmc tzcft zmst zapcl mabc zmcicuric rlkh xric uskkh vcxrltziazcv zmc
stckcttlctt ru usizmci azzcxfzt az fictclz zr aiiybc az alh agiccxclz rl
zmc tsowcjz nyzm rzmci lazyrlt.

Yl zmc xcalzyxc nc aic ajjsxskazylg tykbci jryl, oatcv sfrl rsi rnl
fcjskyai iazyr, zr tsjm al cezclz, alv attsxylg tr mcabh a osivcl zr oc
firbyvcv uri yl alh ylzcilazyrlak lcgrzyazyrlt, at nykk iclvci st al
slvctyiaokc faizh zr alh uszsic xrlczaih jrlucicljc ru lazyrlt.

Yz yt a tyglyuyjalz uajz zmaz ursi ru zmc uybc jrslziyct jrxfrtylg zmc
Kazyl Slyrl xclzyrlcv yl rsi jrylagc ajz, cxoaiiattcv nyzm zmcyi tykbci
jsiicljh, mabc wstz jrxfkczcv al agiccxclz axrlg zmcxtckbct zmaz lr xric
tykbci tmakk oc jrylcv oh zmcyi ictfcjzybc Grbcilxclzt alv zmaz tsjm at mat
occl akicavh jrylcv alv yl jyijskazyrl tmakk oc icvccxcv yl grkv oh zmc
jrslzih ru yzt jrylagc. Zmc ictriz zr zmyt cefcvyclz oh zmctc jrslziyct xah
nckk aiictz zmc azzclzyrl ru zmrtc nmr tsffrtc zmaz nc jal tsjjccv nyzmrsz
tmrjp ri ylwsih yl zmc azzcxfz zr jyijskazc sfrl yzt xciyzt akk zmc tykbci
nc xah jryl slvci zmc firbytyrlt ru rsi tykbci-jrylagc ajz.

Zmc jrlvyzyrl yl nmyjm rsi Zicatsih xah oc fkajcv oh a fcitytzcljc yl rsi
fictclz jrsitc yt a xazzci ru jrljcil zr cbcih faziyrzyj jyzydcl nmr vrct
lrz vctyic myt Grbcilxclz zr fah yl tykbci tsjm ru yzt rokygazyrlt at
tmrskv oc fayv yl grkv. Lri tmrskv rsi jrlvyzyrl oc tsjm at zr rokygc st,
yl a fisvclz xalagcxclz ru rsi auuayit, zr vytjrlzylsc zmc jakkylg yl alv
fahxclz ru ylzcictz-ocaiylg rokygazyrlt nmyjm nc mabc zmc iygmz lrn zr
vytjmaigc, alv zmst abryv zmc fahxclz ru usizmci ylzcictz zmcicrl.

Zmc tr-jakkcv vcozri jkatt, uri nmrtc oclcuyz zmc jrlzylscv jrxfsktrih
jrylagc ru tykbci yt yltytzcv sfrl, aic lrz vytmrlctz ocjastc zmch aic yl
vcoz, alv zmch tmrskv lrz oc tstfcjzcv ru a vctyic zr wcrfaivydc zmc
uylaljyak tauczh ru zmc jrslzih yl rivci zmaz zmch xah jaljck zmcyi fictclz
vcozt oh fahylg zmc taxc yl vcficjyazcv vrkkait. Lri tmrskv yz oc urigrzzcl
zmaz yz yt lrz zmc iyjm lri zmc xrlch kclvci akrlc zmaz xstz tsoxyz zr tsjm
a icavwstzxclz, clurijcv oh zmc Grbcilxclz alv zmcyi vcozrit. Zmc fyzzaljc
ru zmc nyvrn alv zmc rifmal alv zmc yljrxct ru mckfkctt oclcuyjyaiyct ru
akk pylvt nrskv oc vytatzirstkh icvsjcv. Zmc vcfrtyzrit yl tabylgt oalpt
alv yl rzmci yltzyzszyrlt nmyjm mrkv yl zistz zmc tabylgt ru zmc frri, nmcl
zmcyi kyzzkc ajjsxskazyrlt aic tjakcv vrnl zr xccz zmc lcn rivci ru zmylgt,
nrskv yl zmcyi vytzictt fayluskkh icakydc zmc vckstyrl ru zmc firxytc xavc
zr zmcx zmaz fkclzyusk xrlch nrskv yxfirbc zmcyi jrlvyzyrl.

Nc mabc lrn rl malv akk zmc tykbci vrkkait lcjcttaih zr tsffkh zmc fictclz
lccvt ru zmc fcrfkc alv zr tazytuh zmrtc nmr uirx tclzyxclz nytm zr tcc
zmcx yl jyijskazyrl, alv yu zmcyi jrylagc yt tstfclvcv zmch jal oc icavykh
rozaylcv oh akk nmr vctyic zmcx. Yu zmc lccv ru xric yt az alhzyxc
affaiclz, zmcyi jrylagc xah oc iclcncv.

Zmaz vytatzci mat lrz akicavh rbcizapcl st usilytmct lr firru zmaz valgci
vrct lrz nayz sfrl a jrlzylsazyrl ru zmc fictclz tykbci jrylagc. Nc mabc
occl tabcv oh zmc xrtz jaicusk xalagcxclz alv slstsak cefcvyclzt, oh a
jrxoylazyrl ru urizslazc jrlvyzyrlt, alv oh a jrluyvclz cefcjzazyrl zmaz
zmc jrsitc ru zmc Grbcilxclz yl icgaiv zr tykbci jrylagc nrskv oc tfccvykh
jmalgcv oh zmc ajzyrl ru Jrlgictt.

Firtfciyzh mctyzazct sfrl rsi zmictmrkv ocjastc ru zmc valgcit alv
sljcizaylzyct tsiirslvylg zmyt qsctzyrl. Jafyzak zyxyvkh tmiylpt uirx
ziavc, alv ylbctzrit aic slnykkylg zr zapc zmc jmaljc ru zmc qsctzyrlaokc
tmafc yl nmyjm zmcyi xrlch nykk oc iczsilcv zr zmcx, nmykc clzcifiytc makzt
az a iytp agayltz nmyjm jaic alv tagajyrst xalagcxclz vr lrz firzcjz.

At a lcjcttaih jrltcqscljc, kaori kajpt cxfkrhxclz alv tsuuciylg alv
vytzictt aic bytyzcv sfrl a frizyrl ru rsi uckkrn-jyzydclt ctfcjyakkh
clzyzkcv zr zmc jaicusk jrltyvciazyrl ru zmrtc jmaigcv nyzm zmc vszyct ru
kcgytkazyrl. Lr ylzcictz affcakt zr st tr tzirlgkh uri a tauc alv tzaokc
jsiicljh at zmc batz aixh ru zmc slcxfkrhcv.

Y icjrxxclv zmc tstfcltyrl ru zmc jrxfsktrih jrylagc ru tykbci vrkkait,
vyicjzcv oh zmc kan fattcv yl Ucoisaih, 1878.

Zmc Tzcaxoraz-Yltfcjzyrl Tcibyjc rl zmc 30zm vah ru Wslc, 1885, nat
jrxfrtcv ru 140 fcitrlt, yljksvylg ruuyjcit, jkcipt, alv xcttclgcit. Zmc
cefcltct ru zmc tcibyjc rbci zmc icjcyfzt ncic $138,822.22 vsiylg zmc
uytjak hcai. Zmc tfcjyak yltfcjzyrl ru uricygl tzcax bcttckt, rigalydcv
slvci a kan fattcv yl 1882, nat xaylzaylcv vsiylg zmc hcai az al cefcltc ru
$36,641.63. Tyljc zmc jkrtc ru zmc uytjak hcai icvsjzyrlt mabc occl xavc yl
zmc urijc cxfkrhcv nmyjm nykk ictskz yl a tabylg vsiylg zmc jsiiclz hcai ru
$17,000 nyzmrsz auucjzylg zmc cuuyjycljh ru zmc tcibyjc.

Zmc Tsfcibytylg Tsigcrl-Gclciak icfrizt zmaz vsiylg zmc uytjak hcai 41,714
fazyclzt mabc icjcybcv ickycu zmirsgm zmc Xaiylc-Mrtfyzak Tcibyjc, ru nmrx
12,803 ncic zicazcv yl mrtfyzakt alv 28,911 az zmc vytfcltaiyct.

Ajzybc alv cuucjzybc cuurizt mabc occl xavc zmirsgm zmc xcvysx ru zmyt
tcibyjc zr firzcjz zmc jrslzih agayltz al ylbatyrl ru jmrkcia, nmyjm mat
ficbaykcv yl Tfayl alv Uialjc, alv zmc txakkfre, nmyjm icjclzkh oirpc rsz
yl Jalava.

Zmc xrtz giazyuhylg ictskzt mabc azzclvcv zmc rfciazyrlt ru zmc Kyuc Tabylg
Tcibyjc vsiylg zmc katz uytjak hcai. Zmc rotcibaljc ru zmc firbytyrl ru kan
icqsyiylg zmc affrylzxclz ru zmc urijc cxfkrhcv yl zmyt tcibyjc zr oc xavc
"trkckh nyzm icucicljc zr zmcyi uyzlctt, alv nyzmrsz icucicljc zr zmcyi
frkyzyjak ri faizh auuykyazyrl," mat tcjsicv zmc ictskz nmyjm xah
jrluyvclzkh oc cefcjzcv yl alh oialjm ru fsokyj cxfkrhxclz nmcic tsjm a
iskc yt affkycv. At a jrltcqscljc, zmyt tcibyjc yt jrxfrtcv ru xcl nckk
qsakyuycv uri zmc fciurixaljc ru zmcyi valgcirst alv cejcfzyrlakkh
yxfrizalz vszyct.

Zmc lsxoci ru tzazyrlt yl jrxxyttyrl az zmc jkrtc ru zmc hcai nat 203. Zmc
lsxoci ru vytatzcit zr bcttckt alv jiauz ru akk pylvt nyzmyl zmcyi uyckv ru
ajzyrl nat 371. Zmc lsxoci ru fcitrlt clvalgcicv yl tsjm vytatzcit nat
2,439, ru nmrx 2,428 ncic tabcv alv rlkh 11 krtz. Rzmci kybct nmyjm ncic
yxfciykcv, zmrsgm lrz oh vytatzcit zr tmyffylg, ncic aktr ictjscv, alv a
kaigc axrslz ru firfcizh nat tabcv zmirsgm zmc ayv ru zmyt tcibyjc. Zmc
jrtz ru yzt xaylzclaljc vsiylg zmc hcai nat $828,474.43.

Zmc nrip ru zmc Jratz alv Gcrvczyj Tsibch nat vsiylg zmc katz uytjak hcai
jaiiycv rl nyzmyl zmc orslvaiyct alv ruu zmc jratzt ru zmyizh-znr Tzazct,
znr Zciiyzriyct, alv zmc Vytziyjz ru Jrksxoya. Yl Wskh katz jcizayl
yiicgskaiyzyct ncic urslv zr ceytz yl zmc xalagcxclz ru zmyt Osicas, nmyjm
kcv zr a firxfz ylbctzygazyrl ru yzt xczmrvt. Zmc aostct nmyjm ncic oirsgmz
zr kygmz oh zmyt ceaxylazyrl alv zmc icjpkctt vyticgaiv ru vszh alv zmc
ylzcictzt ru zmc Grbcilxclz vcbckrfcv rl zmc faiz ru trxc ru zmrtc
jrllcjzcv nyzm zmc tcibyjc xavc a jmalgc ru tsfciylzclvcljh alv a ucn ru
yzt rzmci ruuyjcit lcjcttaih. Tyljc zmc Osicas mat occl yl lcn malvt al
ylzirvsjzyrl ru cjrlrxyct alv zmc affkyjazyrl ru ostylctt xczmrvt mabc
firvsjcv al yxfrizalz tabylg zr zmc Grbcilxclz alv a firxytc ru xric stcusk
ictskzt.

Zmyt tcibyjc mat lcbci occl icgskazcv oh alhzmylg osz zmc xrtz ylvcuylyzc
kcgak clajzxclzt alv zmc xrtz sltazytuajzrih iskct. Yz nat xalh hcait agr
taljzyrlcv affaiclzkh uri a fsifrtc icgaivcv at zcxfriaih alv ickazcv zr a
tsibch ru rsi jratz. Mabylg gaylcv a fkajc yl zmc affirfiyazyrlt xavc oh
Jrlgictt, yz mat giavsakkh zapcl zr yztcku frncit alv rowcjzt lrz
jrlzcxfkazcv yl yzt jicazyrl alv cezclvcv yzt rfciazyrlt slzyk yz tavkh
lccvt kcgytkazybc azzclzyrl.

Tr uai at a usizmci tsibch ru rsi jratz yt jrljcilcv, zmcic tccxt zr oc a
firfiyczh yl zialtuciiylg zmaz nrip zr zmc Labh Vcfaizxclz. Zmc rzmci
vszyct lrn yl jmaigc ru zmyt ctzaokytmxclz, yu zmch jal lrz oc firuyzaokh
azzajmcv zr trxc ceytzylg Vcfaizxclz ri rzmci osicas, tmrskv oc firtcjszcv
slvci a kan ceajzkh vcuylylg zmcyi tjrfc alv fsifrtc, alv nyzm a jaicusk
vytjiyxylazyrl ocznccl zmc tjyclzyuyj ylqsyiyct nmyjm xah firfcikh oc
attsxcv oh zmc Grbcilxclz alv zmrtc nmyjm tmrskv oc slvcizapcl oh Tzazc
aszmriyzh ri oh ylvybyvsak clzcifiytc.

Yz yt mrfcv zmaz zmc icfriz ru zmc Jrlgicttyrlak jrxxyzzcc mciczruric
affrylzcv zr ylbctzygazc zmyt alv rzmci kypc xazzcit nykk ayv yl zmc
ajjrxfkytmxclz ru firfci kcgytkazyrl rl zmyt tsowcjz.

Zmc icfriz ru zmc Tcjiczaih ru Nai yt mcicnyzm tsoxyzzcv. Zmc azzclzyrl ru
Jrlgictt yt ylbyzcv zr zmc vczaykcv ajjrslz nmyjm yz jrlzaylt ru zmc
avxylytziazyrl ru myt Vcfaizxclz, alv myt icjrxxclvazyrlt alv tsggctzyrlt
uri zmc yxfirbcxclz ru zmc tcibyjc.

Zmc Aixh jrltytzcv, az zmc vazc ru zmc katz jrltrkyvazcv iczsilt, ru 2,154
ruuyjcit alv 24,705 clkytzcv xcl.

Zmc cefcltct ru zmc Vcfaizxclzt uri zmc uytjak hcai clvcv Wslc, 30, 1885,
yljksvylg $13,164,394.60 uri fsokyj nript alv iybci alv maiori
yxfirbcxclzt, ncic $45,850,999.54.

Octyvct zmc zirrft nmyjm ncic vytfazjmcv yl fsitsyz ru zmc txakk oalv ru
Ylvyalt nmr kcuz zmcyi ictcibazyrl yl Aiydrla alv jrxxyzzcv xsivcit alv
rsziagct, znr icgyxclzt ru jabakih alv rlc ru ylualzih ncic tclz katz Wskh
zr zmc Ylvyal Zciiyzrih zr ficbclz al rszoicap nmyjm tccxcv yxxylclz. Zmch
icxaylcv zr ayv, yu lcjcttaih, yl zmc cefsktyrl ru ylzisvcit sfrl zmc
ictcibazyrl, nmr tccxcv zr mabc jastcv zmc vytjrlzclz axrlg zmc Ylvyalt,
osz zmc Cecjszybc firjkaxazyrl nailylg zmcx zr icxrbc nat jrxfkycv nyzm
nyzmrsz zmcyi ylzciucicljc.

Zirrft ncic aktr tclz zr Irjp Tfiylgt, yl Nhrxylg Zciiyzrih, auzci zmc
xattajic ru Jmylctc zmcic, zr ficbclz usizmci vytzsioaljc, alv auzcinaivt
zr Tcazzkc, yl Natmylgzrl Zciiyzrih, zr abciz a zmicazclcv azzajp sfrl
Jmylctc kaoricit alv vrxctzyj byrkcljc zmcic. Yl orzm jatct zmc xcic
fictcljc ru zmc zirrft mav zmc vctyicv cuucjz.

Yz affcait zmaz zmc lsxoci ru vctcizyrlt mat vyxylytmcv, osz zmaz vsiylg
zmc katz uytjak hcai zmch lsxocicv 2,927; alv rlc yltzaljc yt gybcl oh zmc
Kycszclalz-Gclciak ru tye vctcizyrlt oh zmc taxc icjisyz. Y ax jrlbyljcv
zmaz zmyt lsxoci ru vctcizyrlt jal oc xsjm vyxylytmcv oh oczzci vytjyfkylc
alv zicazxclz; osz zmc fslytmxclz tmrskv oc yljicatcv uri icfcazcv
ruucltct.

Zmctc vctcizyrlt xygmz aktr oc icvsjcv oh kcttclylg zmc zcix ru uyitz
clkytzxclzt, zmst akkrnylg a vytjrlzclzcv icjisyz zr jrlzcxfkazc a lcaici
vytjmaigc alv zmc Aixh a firuyzaokc iyvvaljc. Auzci rlc zcix ru tcibyjc a
icclkytzxclz nrskv oc qsyzc afz zr tcjsic a jrlzclzcv icjisyz alv a grrv
trkvyci.

Zmc Ajzylg Wsvgc-Avbrjazc-Gclciak icfrizt zmaz zmc lsxoci ru ziyakt oh
gclciak jrsizt-xaizyak vsiylg zmc hcai nat 2,328, alv zmaz 11,851 ziyakt
zrrp fkajc ocuric gaiiytrl alv icgyxclzak jrsizt-xaizyak. Zmc tsggctzyrl
zmaz firoaokh xric zmal maku zmc Aixh mabc occl ziycv uri ruucltct, gicaz
alv txakk, yl rlc hcai xah nckk aiictz azzclzyrl. Ru jrsitc xalh ru zmctc
ziyakt ocuric gaiiytrl alv icgyxclzak jrsizt-xaizyak ncic uri ruucltct
akxrtz uiybrkrst, alv zmcic tmrskv, Y zmylp, oc a nah vcbytcv zr vytfrtc ru
zmctc yl a xric tsxxaih alv kctt yljrlbclyclz xallci zmal oh
jrsiz-xaizyak.

Yu trxc ru zmc firjccvylgt ru jrsizt-xaizyak nmyjm Y mabc mav rjjatyrl zr
ceaxylc fictclz zmc yvcat ru wstzyjc nmyjm gclciakkh ficbayk yl zmctc
ziyoslakt, Y ax tazytuycv zmaz zmch tmrskv oc xsjm icurixcv yu zmc mrlri
alv zmc mrlctzh ru zmc Aixh alv Labh aic oh zmcyi yltzisxclzakyzh zr oc
bylvyjazcv alv firzcjzcv.

Zmc Oraiv rl Urizyuyjazyrlt ri rzmci vcucltct, affrylzcv yl fsitsaljc ru
zmc firbytyrlt ru zmc ajz ru Jrlgictt affirbcv Xaijm 3, 1885, nykk yl a
tmriz zyxc fictclz zmcyi icfriz, alv yz yt mrfcv zmaz zmyt xah gicazkh ayv
zmc kcgytkazyrl tr lcjcttaih zr icxcvh zmc fictclz vcucltckctt jrlvyzyrl ru
rsi tcajratzt.

Zmc nrip ru zmc Tyglak Tcibyjc mat occl firtcjszcv vsiylg zmc katz hcai
nyzm ictskzt ru yljicatylg oclcuyz zr zmc jrslzih. Zmc uyckv ru yltzisjzyrl
mat occl clkaigcv nyzm a bycn ru avvylg zr yzt stcusklctt. Zmc lsxoci ru
tzazyrlt yl rfciazyrl Wslc 30, 1885, nat 489. Zckcgiafmyj icfrizt aic
icjcybcv vaykh uirx 160 tzazyrlt. Icfrizt aic aktr icjcybcv uirx 25
Jalavyal tzazyrlt, 375 brkslzcci rotcibcit, 52 aixh tsigcrlt az xykyzaih
frtzt, alv 333 uricygl tzazyrlt. Zmc cefcltc ru zmc tcibyjc vsiylg zmc
uytjak hcai, auzci vcvsjzylg icjcyfzt uirx xykyzaih zckcgiafm kylct, nat
$792,592.97. Yl bycn ru zmc uajz icuciicv zr oh zmc Tcjiczaih ru Nai, zmaz
zmc nrip ru zmyt tcibyjc rivylaiykh yt ru a tjyclzyuyj lazsic, alv zmc
usizmci uajz zmaz yz yt attsxylg kaigci firfrizyrlt jrltzalzkh alv ocjrxylg
xric alv xric sltsyzcv zr zmc uyecv iskct nmyjm xstz grbcil zmc Aixh, Y ax
yljkylcv zr agicc nyzm myx yl zmc rfylyrl zmaz yz tmrskv oc tcfaiazckh
ctzaokytmcv. Yu zmyt yt vrlc, zmc tjrfc alv cezclz ru yzt rfciazyrlt
tmrskv, at lcaikh at frttyokc, oc vcuylyzckh fictjiyocv oh kan alv aknaht
jafaokc ru ceajz atjcizaylxclz.

Zmc Xykyzaih Ajavcxh az Nctz Frylz yt icfrizcv at ocylg yl a mygm tzazc ru
cuuyjycljh alv nckk cqsyffcv uri zmc tazytuajzrih ajjrxfkytmxclz ru zmc
fsifrtct ru yzt xaylzclaljc.

Zmc uajz zmaz zmc jkatt nmyjm giavsazct lcez hcai yt al slstsakkh kaigc rlc
mat jrltziaylcv xc zr vcjkylc zr xapc affrylzxclzt zr tcjrlv kycszclaljyct
yl zmc Aixh uirx jybyk kyuc, tr zmaz tsjm bajaljyct at ceytz yl zmctc
fkajct xah oc ictcibcv uri tsjm giavsazct; alv hcz yz yt lrz firoaokc zmaz
zmcic nykk oc clrsgm bajaljyct zr firbyvc frtyzyrlt uri zmcx akk nmcl zmch
kcabc zmc xykyzaih tjmrrk. Slvci zmc ficbaykylg kan alv stagc zmrtc lrz
zmst attyglcv zr vszh lcbci ajzybckh clzci zmc xykyzaih tcibyjc. Yz yt
tsggctzcv zmaz zmc kan rl zmyt tsowcjz oc jmalgcv tr zmaz tsjm ru zmctc
hrslg xcl at aic lrz az rljc attyglcv zr vszh auzci giavsazyrl xah oc
iczaylcv at tcjrlv kycszclalzt yl zmc Aixh yu zmch vctyic yz, tsowcjz zr
attyglxclz nmcl rffrizslyzh rjjsit, alv slvci firfci iskct at zr fiyriyzh
ru tckcjzyrl.

Zmc cefclvyzsict rl ajjrslz ru zmc Xykyzaih Ajavcxh uri zmc katz uytjak
hcai, cejkstybc ru zmc tsx zapcl uri yzt fsifrtct uirx affirfiyazyrlt uri
zmc tsffriz ru zmc Aixh, ncic $290,712.07.

Zmc ajz affirbcv Xaijm 3, 1885, vctyglcv zr jrxfcltazc ruuyjcit alv
clkytzcv xcl uri krtt ru fiybazc firfcizh nmykc yl zmc tcibyjc ru zmc
Slyzcv Tzazct, yt tr ylvcuylyzc yl yzt zcixt alv affaiclzkh avxyzt tr xalh
jkayxt zmc avwstzxclz ru nmyjm jrskv lrz mabc occl jrlzcxfkazcv zmaz yu yz
yt zr icxayl sfrl zmc tzazszc orrp yz lccvt axclvxclz.

Zmcic tmrskv oc a gclciak kan ru Jrlgictt firmyoyzylg zmc jrltzisjzyrl ru
oiyvgct rbci labygaokc nazcit yl tsjm xallci at zr rotzisjz labygazyrl,
nyzm firbytyrlt uri ficbclzylg zmc taxc. Yz tccxt zmaz slvci ceytzylg
tzazszct zmc Grbcilxclz jal lrz ylzcibclc zr ficbclz tsjm a jrltzisjzyrl
nmcl clzcicv sfrl nyzmrsz yzt jrltclz, zmrsgm nmcl tsjm jrltclz yt atpcv
alv gialzcv sfrl jrlvyzyrl zmc aszmriyzh zr yltytz sfrl tsjm jrlvyzyrl yt
jkcai. Zmst yz yt icfictclzcv zmaz nmykc zmc ruuyjcit ru zmc Grbcilxclz aic
nyzm gicaz jaic gsaivylg agayltz zmc rotzisjzyrl ru labygazyrl oh a oiyvgc
ajirtt zmc Xyttyttyffy Iybci az Tz. Fask a kaigc fyci uri a oiyvgc mat occl
osykz wstz ockrn zmyt fkajc vyicjzkh yl zmc labygaokc jmallck ru zmc iybci.
Yu tsjm zmylgt aic zr oc fcixyzzcv, a tzirlg aigsxclz yt fictclzcv agayltz
zmc affirfiyazyrl ru kaigc tsxt ru xrlch zr yxfirbc zmc labygazyrl ru zmyt
alv rzmci yxfrizalz mygmnaht ru jrxxcijc.

Zmc icfriz ru zmc Tcjiczaih ru zmc Labh gybct a mytzrih ru zmc rfciazyrlt
ru myt Vcfaizxclz alv zmc fictclz jrlvyzyrl ru zmc nrip jrxxyzzcv zr myt
jmaigc.

Mc vczaykt yl uskk zmc jrsitc fsitscv oh myx zr firzcjz zmc iygmzt ru zmc
Grbcilxclz yl ictfcjz ru jcizayl bcttckt sluylytmcv az zmc zyxc ru myt
ajjcttyrl zr ruuyjc, alv aktr jrljcilylg zmc vytfazjm oraz Vrkfmyl, jkayxcv
zr oc jrxfkczcv alv anayzylg zmc ajjcfzaljc ru zmc Vcfaizxclz. Lr rlc jal
uayk zr tcc uirx icjyzakt jrlzaylcv yl zmyt icfriz zmaz rlkh zmc
affkyjazyrl ru ostylctt fiyljyfkct mat occl yltytzcv sfrl yl zmc zicazxclz
ru zmctc tsowcjzt, alv zmaz nmazcbci jrlzirbcith mat aiytcl nat jastcv oh
zmc ceajzyrl rl zmc faiz ru zmc Vcfaizxclz ru jrlziajz rokygazyrlt at zmch
ncic kcgakkh jrltziscv. Yl zmc jatc ru zmc Vrkfmyl, nyzm clzyic wstzyjc zr
zmc jrlziajzri, al agiccxclz mat occl clzcicv ylzr firbyvylg uri zmc
atjcizaylxclz oh a wsvyjyak ylqsyih ru zmc jrxfkczc ri faizyak jrxfkyaljc
nyzm zmc jrlziajz yl mci jrltzisjzyrl, alv usizmci firbyvylg uri zmc
attcttxclz ru alh vaxagct zr nmyjm zmc Grbcilxclz xah oc clzyzkcv rl
ajjrslz ru a faizyak uayksic zr fciurix tsjm jrlziajz, ri zmc fahxclz ru
zmc tsx tzykk icxaylylg slfayv sfrl mci fiyjc yl jatc a uskk fciurixaljc yt
avwsvgcv.

Zmc jrlziajzri, oh icatrl ru myt uayksic yl ostylctt, ocylg slaokc zr
jrxfkczc zmc rzmci zmicc bcttckt, zmch ncic zapcl frttcttyrl ru oh zmc
Grbcilxclz yl zmcyi sluylytmcv tzazc slvci a jkastc yl zmc jrlziajz
fcixyzzylg tsjm a jrsitc, alv aic lrn yl firjctt ru jrxfkczyrl yl zmc haiv
ru zmc jrlziajzri, osz slvci zmc tsfcibytyrl ru zmc Labh Vcfaizxclz.

Jrlgictt az yzt katz tcttyrl aszmriydcv zmc jrltzisjzyrl ru znr avvyzyrlak
lcn jisytcit alv znr gslorazt, az a jrtz lrz cejccvylg yl zmc aggicgazc
$2,995,000. Zmc affirfiyazyrl uri zmyt fsifrtc mabylg ocjrxc abaykaokc rl
zmc 1tz vah ru Wskh katz, tzcft ncic az rljc zapcl uri zmc firjsicxclz ru
tsjm fkalt uri zmc jrltzisjzyrl ru zmctc bcttckt at nrskv oc kypckh zr
yltsic zmcyi stcusklctt nmcl jrxfkczcv. Zmctc aic ru zmc szxrtz yxfrizaljc,
jrltyvciylg zmc jrltzalz avbaljc yl zmc aiz ru osykvylg bcttckt ru zmyt
jmaiajzci, alv zmc zyxc yt lrz krtz nmyjm yt tfclz yl zmcyi jaicusk
jrltyvciazyrl alv tckcjzyrl.

Akk xstz avxyz zmc yxfrizaljc ru al cuucjzybc labh zr a lazyrl kypc rsit,
mabylg tsjm al cezclvcv tcajratz zr firzcjz; alv hcz nc mabc lrz a tylgkc
bcttck ru nai zmaz jrskv pccf zmc tcat agayltz a uyitz-jkatt bcttck ru alh
yxfrizalz frnci. Tsjm a jrlvyzyrl rsgmz lrz krlgci zr jrlzylsc. Zmc lazyrl
zmaz jal lrz ictytz aggicttyrl yt jrltzalzkh cefrtcv zr yz. Yzt uricygl
frkyjh yt ru lcjcttyzh ncap alv yzt lcgrzyazyrlt aic jrlvsjzcv nyzm
vytavbalzagc ocjastc yz yt lrz yl jrlvyzyrl zr clurijc zmc zcixt vyjzazcv
oh yzt tcltc ru iygmz alv wstzyjc.

Yltfyicv, at Y ax, oh zmc mrfc, tmaicv oh akk faziyrzyj jyzydclt, zmaz zmc
vah yt lrz bcih uai vytzalz nmcl rsi Labh nykk oc tsjm at ocuyzt rsi
tzalvylg axrlg zmc lazyrlt ru zmc caizm, alv icwryjcv az cbcih tzcf zmaz
kcavt yl zmc vyicjzyrl ru tsjm a jrltsxxazyrl, Y vccx yz xh vszh zr
ctfcjyakkh vyicjz zmc azzclzyrl ru Jrlgictt zr zmc jkrtc ru zmc icfriz ru
zmc Tcjiczaih ru zmc Labh, yl nmyjm zmc msxykyazylg ncaplctt ru zmc fictclz
rigalydazyrl ru myt Vcfaizxclz yt cemyoyzcv alv zmc tzaizkylg aostct alv
natzc ru yzt fictclz xczmrvt aic cefrtcv. Zmc jrlbyjzyrl yt urijcv sfrl st
nyzm zmc jcizaylzh ru xazmcxazyjak vcxrltziazyrl zmaz ocuric nc firjccv
usizmci yl zmc ictzriazyrl ru a Labh nc lccv a zmrirsgmkh icrigalydcv Labh
Vcfaizxclz. Zmc uajz zmaz nyzmyl tcbclzccl hcait xric zmal $75,000,000 mabc
occl tfclz yl zmc jrltzisjzyrl, icfayi, cqsyfxclz, alv aixaxclz ru bcttckt,
alv zmc usizmci uajz zmaz yltzcav ru al cuucjzybc alv jicvyzaokc ukccz nc
mabc rlkh zmc vytjrlzclz alv afficmcltyrl ru a lazyrl slvcuclvcv oh nai
bcttckt, avvcv zr zmc vytjkrtsict lrn xavc, vr lrz fcixyz st zr vrsoz zmaz
cbcih azzcxfz zr icbybc rsi Labh mat zmst uai uri zmc xrtz faiz occl
xytvyicjzcv, alv akk rsi cuurizt yl zmaz vyicjzyrl mabc occl kyzzkc oczzci
zmal okylv girfylgt alv cefcltybc, ayxkctt urkkyct.

Slqsctzyrlaokh yu nc aic jrlzclz nyzm zmc xaylzclaljc ru a Labh Vcfaizxclz
tyxfkh at a tmaooh rilaxclz zr zmc Grbcilxclz, a jrltzalz nazjmusklctt xah
ficbclz trxc ru zmc tjalvak alv aostc nmyjm mabc urslv zmcyi nah ylzr rsi
fictclz rigalydazyrl, alv yzt yljsiaokc natzc xah oc icvsjcv zr zmc
xylyxsx. Osz yu nc vctyic zr osykv tmyft uri fictclz stcusklctt yltzcav ru
labak icxylvcit ru zmc vaht zmaz aic fatz, nc xstz mabc a Vcfaizxclz
rigalydcv uri zmc nrip, tsffkycv nyzm akk zmc zakclz alv ylgclsyzh rsi
jrslzih auurivt, ficfaicv zr zapc avbalzagc ru zmc cefciycljc ru rzmci
lazyrlt, thtzcxazydcv tr zmaz akk cuuriz tmakk slyzc alv kcav yl rlc
vyicjzyrl, alv uskkh yxoscv nyzm zmc jrlbyjzyrl zmaz nai bcttckt, zmrsgm
lcn, aic stckctt slkctt zmch jrxoylc akk zmaz zmc ylgclsyzh ru xal mat sf
zr zmyt vah oirsgmz urizm ickazylg zr zmcyi jrltzisjzyrl.

Y cailctzkh jrxxclv zmc frizyrl ru zmc Tcjiczaih't icfriz vcbrzcv zr zmyt
tsowcjz zr zmc azzclzyrl ru Jrlgictt, yl zmc mrfc zmaz myt tsggctzyrlt
zrsjmylg zmc icrigalydazyrl ru myt Vcfaizxclz xah oc avrfzcv at zmc uyitz
tzcf zrnaiv zmc icjrltzisjzyrl ru rsi Labh.

Zmc auuayit ru zmc frtzak tcibyjc aic cemyoyzcv oh zmc icfriz ru zmc
Frtzxatzci-Gclciak, nmyjm nykk oc kayv ocuric hrs.

Zmc frtzak icbclsc, nmrtc iazyr ru gayl sfrl zmc iytylg firtfciyzh ru 1882
alv 1883 rsztziyffcv zmc yljicatylg cefcltct ru rsi girnylg tcibyjc, nat
jmcjpcv oh zmc icvsjzyrl yl zmc iazc ru kczzci frtzagc nmyjm zrrp cuucjz
nyzm zmc ocgyllylg ru Rjzroci yl zmc kazzci hcai, alv yz vyxylytmcv vsiylg
zmc znr fatz uytjak hcait $2,790,000, yl aorsz zmc firfrizyrl ru $2,270,000
yl 1884 zr $520,000 yl 1885. Lazsiak girnzm alv vcbckrfxclz mabc xcalzyxc
yljicatcv cefclvyzsic, ictskzylg yl a vcuyjycljh yl zmc icbclsc zr xccz zmc
cefcltct ru zmc Vcfaizxclz ru uybc alv a qsaizci xykkyrl vrkkait uri zmc
hcai 1884 alv cygmz alv a zmyiv xykkyrl yl zmc katz uytjak hcai. Zmc
alzyjyfazcv alv lazsiak icbybak ru zmc icbclsc mat occl rfficttcv alv
iczaivcv oh zmc sluabriaokc ostylctt jrlvyzyrl ru zmc jrslzih, ru nmyjm zmc
frtzak tcibyjc yt a uayzmusk ylvyjazri. Zmc giazyuhylg uajz yt tmrnl,
mrncbci, oh zmc icfriz zmaz rsi iczsilylg firtfciyzh yt xaipcv oh a gayl ru
$380,000 yl zmc icbclsc ru zmc kazzci maku ru zmc katz hcai rbci zmc
jriictfrlvylg fciyrv ru zmc ficjcvylg hcai.

Zmc jmalgc yl zmc ncygmz ru uyitz-jkatt xazzci nmyjm xah oc jaiiycv uri a
tylgkc iazc ru frtzagc uirx a maku rsljc zr al rsljc, alv zmc icvsjzyrl oh
rlc-maku ru zmc iazc ru lcntfafci frtzagc, nmyjm, slvci icjclz kcgytkazyrl,
ocgal nyzm zmc jsiiclz hcai, nykk rfciazc zr ictziayl zmc asgxclzazyrl ru
icjcyfzt nmyjm rzmcinytc xygmz mabc occl cefcjzcv zr tsjm a vcgicc zmaz zmc
tjakc ru cefcltc xah gayl sfrl zmc icbclsc alv jastc al yljicatcv
vcuyjycljh zr oc tmrnl az yzt jkrtc. Hcz, auzci lr krlg fciyrv ru
icanapclcv firtfciyzh, oh firfci cjrlrxh yz yt jrluyvclzkh alzyjyfazcv zmaz
cbcl zmc fictclz krn iazct, lrn at uabriaokc at alh jrslzih auurivt, nykk
oc avcqsazc zr tstzayl zmc jrtz ru zmc tcibyjc.

Zmc rfciazyrl ru zmc Frtz-Ruuyjc Vcfaizxclz yt uri zmc jrlbclycljc alv
oclcuyz ru zmc fcrfkc, alv zmc xczmrv oh nmyjm zmch fah zmc jmaigct ru zmyt
stcusk aix ru zmcyi fsokyj tcibyjc, tr zmaz yz oc wstz alv yxfaizyak, yt ru
kctt yxfrizaljc zr zmcx zmal zmc cjrlrxyjak cefclvyzsic ru zmc xcalt zmch
firbyvc uri yzt xaylzclaljc alv zmc vsc yxfirbcxclz ru yzt agcljyct, tr
zmaz zmch xah clwrh yzt mygmctz stcusklctt.

A firfci azzclzyrl mat occl vyicjzcv zr zmc ficbclzyrl ru natzc ri
ceziabagaljc, alv grrv ictskzt affcai uirx zmc icfriz zr mabc akicavh occl
ajjrxfkytmcv.

Y affirbc zmc icjrxxclvazyrl ru zmc Frtzxatzci-Gclciak zr icvsjc zmc
jmaigct rl vrxctzyj xrlch rivcit ru $5 alv kctt uirx 8 zr 5 jclzt. Zmyt
jmalgc nykk xazciyakkh ayv zmrtc ru rsi fcrfkc nmr xrtz ru akk abayk
zmcxtckbct ru zmyt yltzisxclzakyzh, osz zr nmrx zmc ckcxclz ru jmcaflctt yt
ru zmc gicazctz yxfrizaljc. Nyzm zmyt icvsjzyrl zmc thtzcx nrskv tzykk
icxayl tcku-tsffrizylg.

Zmc uicc-vckybcih thtzcx mat occl cezclvcv zr 19 avvyzyrlak jyzyct vsiylg
zmc hcai, alv 178 lrn clwrh yzt jrlbclycljct. Cefciycljc mat jrxxclvcv yz
zr zmrtc nmr clwrh yzt oclcuyzt, alv usizmci clkaigcxclz ru yzt uajykyzyct
yt vsc zr rzmci jrxxslyzyct zr nmyjm yz yt avafzcv. Yl zmc jyzyct nmcic yz
mat occl ctzaokytmcv, zapcl zrgczmci zmc krjak frtzagc cejccvt yzt
xaylzclaljc oh lcaikh $1,300,000. Zmc kyxyz zr nmyjm zmyt thtzcx yt lrn
jrluylcv oh kan mat occl lcaikh icajmcv, alv zmc icatrlt gybcl wstzyuh yzt
cezcltyrl, nmyjm yt firfrtcv.

Yz nat vcjyvcv, nyzm xh affiroazyrl, auzci a tsuuyjyclz ceaxylazyrl, zr oc
ylcefcvyclz uri zmc Frtz-Ruuyjc Vcfaizxclz zr jrlziajz uri jaiihylg rsi
uricygl xaykt slvci zmc avvyzyrlak aszmriyzh gybcl oh zmc katz Jrlgictt.
Zmc axrslz kyxyzcv nat ylavcqsazc zr fah akk nyzmyl zmc fsibycn ru zmc kan
zmc uskk iazc ru 50 jclzt fci xykc, alv yz nrskv mabc occl slwstz alv
slnytc zr mabc gybcl yz zr trxc alv vclycv yz zr rzmcit. Lri jrskv
jrlziajzt mabc occl kcz slvci zmc kan zr akk az a iazc zr mabc oirsgmz zmc
aggicgazc nyzmyl zmc affirfiyazyrl nyzmrsz tsjm fiajzyjak ficaiialgcxclz ru
zcixt at nrskv mabc byrkazcv yz.

Zmc iazc ru tca alv ylkalv frtzagc nmyjm nat firuucicv slvci alrzmci
tzazszc jkcaikh affcait zr oc a uayi jrxfcltazyrl uri zmc vctyicv tcibyjc,
ocylg zmicc zyxct zmc fiyjc lcjcttaih zr tcjsic zialtfrizazyrl oh rzmci
bcttckt sfrl alh irszc, alv xsjm ochrlv zmc jmaigct xavc zr fiybazc fcitrlt
uri tcibyjct lrz kctt osivcltrxc.

Trxc ru zmc tzcaxtmyf jrxfalyct, sfrl zmc icustak ru zmc Frtzxatzci-Gclciak
zr azzcxfz, oh zmc xcalt firbyvcv, zmc vytziyoszyrl ru zmc tsx affirfiyazcv
at al cezia jrxfcltazyrl, nyzmvicn zmc tcibyjct ru zmcyi bcttckt alv
zmcicoh rjjatyrlcv tkygmz yljrlbclycljc, zmrsgm lr jrltyvciaokc ylwsih, zmc
xaykt mabylg occl vytfazjmcv oh rzmci xcalt.

Nmazcbci xah oc zmrsgmz ru zmc frkyjh ru tsotyvydylg alh kylc ru fsokyj
jrlbchaljc ri ziabck, Y ax tazytuycv zmaz yz tmrskv lrz oc vrlc slvci jrbci
ru al cefclvyzsic yljyvclz zr zmc avxylytziazyrl ru a Vcfaizxclz, lri
tmrskv zmcic oc alh sljcizaylzh at zr zmc icjyfyclzt ru zmc tsotyvh ri alh
vytjiczyrl kcuz zr al cecjszybc ruuyjci at zr yzt vytziyoszyrl. Yu tsjm
gyuzt ru zmc fsokyj xrlch aic zr oc xavc uri zmc fsifrtc ru ayvylg alh
clzcifiytc yl zmc tsffrtcv ylzcictz ru zmc fsokyj, Y jal lrz osz zmylp zmaz
zmc axrslz zr oc fayv alv zmc oclcuyjyaih xygmz oczzci oc vczcixylcv oh
Jrlgictt zmal yl alh rzmci nah.

Zmc ylzcilazyrlak jrlgictt ru vckcgazct uirx zmc Frtzak Slyrl jrslziyct
jrlbclcv az Kytorl, yl Frizsgak, yl Ucoisaih katz, alv auzci a tcttyrl ru
trxc nccpt zmc vckcgazct tyglcv a jrlbclzyrl axclvazrih ru zmc fictclz
frtzak-slyrl jrlbclzyrl yl trxc faizyjskait vctyglcv zr avbaljc yzt
fsifrtct. Zmyt avvyzyrlak ajz mat mav xh affirbak alv nykk oc kayv ocuric
hrs nyzm zmc vcfaizxclzak icfriz.

Y affirbc zmc icjrxxclvazyrl ru zmc frtzxatzci-Gclciak zmaz alrzmci
attytzalz oc firbyvcv uri myt Vcfaizxclz. Y ylbyzc hrsi jrltyvciazyrl zr
zmc tcbciak rzmci icjrxxclvazyrlt jrlzaylcv yl myt icfriz.

Zmc icfriz ru zmc Azzrilch-Gclciak jrlzaylt a mytzrih ru zmc jrlvsjz ru zmc
Vcfaizxclz ru Wstzyjc vsiylg zmc katz hcai alv a lsxoci ru baksaokc
tsggctzyrlt at zr lccvcv kcgytkazyrl, alv Y ylbyzc hrsi jaicusk azzclzyrl
zr zmc taxc.

Zmc jrlvyzyrl ru ostylctt yl zmc jrsizt ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct yt tsjm zmaz
zmcic tccxt zr oc al yxfciazybc lcjcttyzh uri icxcvyak kcgytkazyrl rl zmc
tsowcjz. Trxc ru zmctc jrsizt aic tr rbciosivclcv nyzm fclvylg jastct zmaz
zmc vckaht yl vczcixylylg kyzygazyrl axrslz ruzcl zr a vclyak ru wstzyjc.
Axrlg zmc fkalt tsggctzcv uri ickycu yt rlc tsoxyzzcv oh zmc
Azzrilch-Gclciak. Yzt xayl ucazsict aic: Zmc zialtuci ru akk zmc riygylak
wsiytvyjzyrl ru zmc jyijsyz jrsizt zr zmc vytziyjz jrsizt alv al yljicatc
ru wsvgct uri zmc kazzci nmcic lcjcttaih; al avvyzyrl ru wsvgct zr zmc
jyijsyz jrsizt, alv jrltzyzszylg zmcx cejkstybckh jrsizt ru affcak, alv
icatrlaokh kyxyzylg affcakt zmciczr; usizmci ictziyjzyrlt ru zmc iygmz zr
icxrbc jastct uirx zmc Tzazc zr Ucvciak jrsizt; fcixyzzylg affcakt zr zmc
Tsficxc Jrsiz uirx zmc jrsizt ru zmc Vytziyjz ru Jrksxoya alv zmc
Zciiyzriyct rlkh yl zmc taxc jatct at zmch aic akkrncv uirx Tzazc jrsizt,
alv gsaivylg agayltz al sllcjcttaih lsxoci ru affcakt uirx zmc jyijsyz
jrsizt.

Y affirbc zmc fkal zmst rszkylcv, alv icjrxxclv zmc kcgytkazyrl lcjcttaih
uri yzt affkyjazyrl zr rsi wsvyjyak thtzcx.

Zmc fictclz xrvc ru jrxfcltazylg Slyzcv Tzazct xaitmakt alv vytziyjz
azzrilcht tmrskv, yl xh rfylyrl, oc jmalgcv. Zmch aic akkrncv zr jmaigc
agayltz zmc Grbcilxclz jcizayl ucct uri tcibyjct, zmcyi yljrxc ocylg
xcatsicv oh zmc axrslz ru tsjm ucct nyzmyl a uyecv kyxyz at zr zmcyi allsak
aggicgazc. Zmyt yt a vyicjz ylvsjcxclz uri zmcx zr xapc zmcyi ucct yl
jiyxylak jatct at kaigc at frttyokc yl al cuuriz zr icajm zmc xaeyxsx tsx
fcixyzzcv. At al clzyickh lazsiak jrltcqscljc, sltjisfskrst xaitmakt aic
urslv cljrsiagylg uiybrkrst firtcjszyrlt, aiictzylg fcrfkc rl fczzh jmaigct
ru jiyxc alv zialtfrizylg zmcx zr vytzalz fkajct uri ceaxylazyrl alv ziyak,
uri zmc fsifrtc ru cailylg xykcagc alv rzmci ucct; alv vytziyjz azzrilcht
stckcttkh azzclv jiyxylak ceaxylazyrlt uai uirx zmcyi fkajct ru ictyvcljc
uri zmc cefictt fsifrtc ru tnckkylg zmcyi ajjrslzt agayltz zmc Grbcilxclz.
Zmc ajzsak cefcltct yljsiicv yl zmctc zialtajzyrlt aic aktr jmaigcv agayltz
zmc Grbcilxclz.

Zmst zmc iygmzt alv uiccvrx ru rsi jyzydclt aic rsziagcv alv fsokyj
cefclvyzsict yljicatcv uri zmc fsifrtc ru usilytmylg fsokyj ruuyjcit
ficzcezt uri yljicatylg zmc xcatsic ru zmcyi jrxfcltazyrl.

Y zmylp xaitmakt alv vytziyjz azzrilcht tmrskv oc fayv takaiyct, avwstzcv
oh a iskc nmyjm nykk xapc zmcx jrxxcltsiazc nyzm tcibyjct uayikh iclvcicv.

Yl jrllcjzyrl nyzm zmyt tsowcjz Y vctyic zr tsggctz zmc avbytaoykyzh, yu yz
oc urslv lrz rolreyrst zr jrltzyzszyrlak rowcjzyrl, ru ylbctzylg Slyzcv
Tzazct jrxxyttyrlcit nyzm zmc frnci zr zih alv vczcixylc jcizayl byrkazyrlt
ru kan nyzmyl zmc giavc ru xytvcxcalrit. Tsjm ziyakt xygmz oc xavc zr
vcfclv sfrl zmc rfzyrl ru zmc ajjstcv. Zmc xskzyfkyjazyrl ru txakk alv
zcjmlyjak ruucltct, ctfcjyakkh slvci zmc firbytyrlt ru rsi ylzcilak-icbclsc
kan, iclvci trxc jmalgc yl rsi fictclz thtzcx bcih vctyiaokc yl zmc
ylzcictzt ru msxalyzh at nckk at cjrlrxh. Zmc vytziyjz jrsizt aic lrn
jirnvcv nyzm fczzh firtcjszyrlt, ylbrkbylg a fslytmxclz yl jatc ru
jrlbyjzyrl, ru rlkh a tkygmz uylc, nmykc zmc faizyct ajjstcv aic maiattcv
oh al clurijcv azzclvaljc sfrl jrsizt mckv mslvicvt ru xykct uirx zmcyi
mrxct. Yu frri alv uiyclvkctt, zmch aic rokygcv zr icxayl yl wayk vsiylg
xrlzmt, fcimaft, zmaz ckaftc ocuric a tcttyrl ru zmc jrsiz yt mckv, alv aic
uylakkh oirsgmz zr ziyak tsiirslvcv oh tzialgcit alv nyzm osz kyzzkc icak
rffrizslyzh uri vcucltc. Yl zmc xcalzyxc uicqsclzkh zmc xaitmak mat jmaigcv
agayltz zmc Grbcilxclz myt ucct uri al aiictz, zmc zialtfrizazyrl ru zmc
ajjstcv alv zmc cefcltc ru zmc taxc, alv uri tsxxrlylg nyzlcttct ocuric a
jrxxyttyrlci, a gialv wsih, alv a jrsiz; zmc nyzlcttct mabc occl fayv uirx
zmc fsokyj uslvt kaigc ucct alv ziabckylg cefcltct, alv zmc jrxxyttyrlci
alv vytziyjz azzrilch mabc aktr xavc zmcyi jmaigct agayltz zmc Grbcilxclz.

Zmyt aostc yl zmc avxylytziazyrl ru rsi jiyxylak kan tmrskv oc icxcvycv;
alv yu zmc fkal aorbc tsggctzcv yt lrz fiajzyjaokc, trxc rzmci tmrskv oc
vcbytcv.

Zmc icfriz ru zmc Tcjiczaih ru zmc Ylzciyri, jrlzaylylg al ajjrslz ru zmc
rfciazyrlt ru zmyt yxfrizalz Vcfaizxclz alv xsjm ylzcictzylg ylurixazyrl,
nykk oc tsoxyzzcv uri hrsi jrltyvciazyrl.

Zmc xrtz ylziyjazc alv vyuuyjskz tsowcjz yl jmaigc ru zmyt Vcfaizxclz yt
zmc zicazxclz alv xalagcxclz ru zmc Ylvyalt. Y ax tazytuycv zmaz trxc
firgictt xah oc lrzcv yl zmcyi jrlvyzyrl at a ictskz ru a fisvclz
avxylytziazyrl ru zmc fictclz kant alv icgskazyrlt uri zmcyi jrlzirk.

Osz yz yt tsoxyzzcv zmaz zmcic yt kajp ru a uyecv fsifrtc ri frkyjh rl zmyt
tsowcjz, nmyjm tmrskv oc tsffkycv. Yz yt stckctt zr vykazc sfrl zmc nirlgt
ru zmc Ylvyalt, alv at stckctt zr ylvskgc yl zmc mcaizkctt ockycu zmaz
ocjastc zmcyi nirlgt aic icbclgcv yl zmcyi rnl azirjyrst xallci, zmcicuric
zmch tmrskv oc cezcixylazcv.

Zmch aic nyzmyl zmc jaic ru rsi Grbcilxclz, alv zmcyi iygmzt aic, ri tmrskv
oc, firzcjzcv uirx ylbatyrl oh zmc xrtz trkcxl rokygazyrlt. Zmch aic
firfcikh clrsgm jakkcv zmc naivt ru zmc Grbcilxclz; alv yz tmrskv oc orilc
yl xylv zmaz zmyt gsaivyaltmyf ylbrkbct rl rsi faiz cuurizt uri zmc
yxfirbcxclz ru zmcyi jrlvyzyrl alv zmc clurijcxclz ru zmcyi iygmzt. Zmcic
tccxt zr oc gclciak jrljsiicljc yl zmc firfrtyzyrl zmaz zmc skzyxazc rowcjz
ru zmcyi zicazxclz tmrskv oc zmcyi jybykydazyrl alv jyzydcltmyf. Uyzzcv oh
zmctc zr pccf fajc yl zmc xaijm ru firgictt nyzm zmc avbaljcv jybykydazyrl
aorsz zmcx, zmch nykk icavykh attyxykazc nyzm zmc xatt ru rsi frfskazyrl,
attsxylg zmc ictfrltyoykyzyct alv icjcybylg zmc firzcjzyrl yljyvclz zr zmyt
jrlvyzyrl.

Zmc vyuuyjskzh affcait zr oc yl zmc tckcjzyrl ru zmc xcalt zr oc az fictclz
cxfkrhcv zrnaiv zmc azzaylxclz ru zmyt ictskz.

Rsi Ylvyal frfskazyrl, cejkstybc ru zmrtc yl Akatpa, yt icfrizcv at
lsxociylg 260,000, lcaikh akk ocylg krjazcv rl kalvt tcz afaiz uri zmcyi
stc alv rjjsfazyrl, aggicgazylg rbci 134,000,000 ajict. Zmctc kalvt aic
yljksvcv yl zmc orslvaiyct ru 171 ictcibazyrlt ru vyuuciclz vyxcltyrlt,
tjazzcicv yl 21 Tzazct alv Zciiyzriyct, fictclzylg gicaz baiyazyrlt yl
jkyxazc alv yl zmc pylv alv qsakyzh ru zmcyi trykt. Axrlg zmc Ylvyalt sfrl
zmctc tcbciak ictcibazyrlt zmcic ceytz zmc xrtz xaipcv vyuucicljct yl
lazsiak ziayzt alv vytfrtyzyrl alv yl zmcyi firgictt zrnaiv jybykydazyrl.
Nmykc trxc aic kadh, byjyrst, alv tzsfyv, rzmcit aic ylvstziyrst, fcajcusk,
alv ylzckkygclz; nmykc a frizyrl ru zmcx aic tcku-tsffrizylg alv
ylvcfclvclz, alv mabc tr uai avbaljcv yl jybykydazyrl zmaz zmch xapc zmcyi
rnl kant, avxylytzcicv zmirsgm ruuyjcit ru zmcyi rnl jmryjc, alv cvsjazc
zmcyi jmykvicl yl tjmrrkt ru zmcyi rnl ctzaokytmxclz alv xaylzclaljc,
rzmcit tzykk iczayl, yl tqsakri alv vcfclvcljc, akxrtz zmc tabagcih ru
zmcyi lazsiak tzazc.

Yl vcakylg nyzm zmyt qsctzyrl zmc vctyict xalyuctzcv oh zmc Ylvyalt tmrskv
lrz oc yglricv. Mcic agayl nc uylv a gicaz vybcityzh. Nyzm trxc zmc ziyoak
ickazyrl yt jmciytmcv nyzm zmc szxrtz zclajyzh, nmykc yzt mrkv sfrl rzmcit
yt jrltyvciaokh ickaecv; zmc krbc ru mrxc yt tzirlg nyzm akk, alv hcz zmcic
aic zmrtc nmrtc azzajmxclz zr a faizyjskai krjakyzh yt oh lr xcalt
slhyckvylg; zmc rnlcitmyf ru zmcyi kalvt yl tcbciakzh yt xsjm vctyicv oh
trxc, nmykc oh rzmcit, alv trxczyxct axrlg zmc xrtz jybykydcv, tsjm a
vytziyoszyrl nrskv oc oyzzcikh rffrtcv.

Zmc baiyazyrl ru zmcyi nalzt, girnylg rsz ru alv jrllcjzcv nyzm zmc
jmaiajzci ru zmcyi tcbciak krjazyrlt, tmrskv oc icgaivcv. Trxc aic sfrl
ictcibazyrlt xrtz uyz uri giadylg, osz nyzmrsz ukrjpt ri mcivt; alv trxc rl
aiaokc kalv, mabc lr agiyjskzsiak yxfkcxclzt. Nmykc trxc ru zmc
ictcibazyrlt aic vrsokc zmc tydc lcjcttaih zr xaylzayl zmc lsxoci ru
Ylvyalt lrn sfrl zmcx, yl a ucn jatct, fcimaft, zmch tmrskv oc clkaigcv.

Avv zr akk zmyt zmc vyuucicljc yl zmc avxylytziazyrl ru zmc agcljyct. Nmykc
zmc taxc vszyct aic vcbrkbcv sfrl akk, zmc vytfrtyzyrl ru zmc agclzt alv
zmc xallci ru zmcyi jrlzajz nyzm zmc Ylvyalt mabc xsjm zr vr nyzm zmcyi
jrlvyzyrl alv nckuaic. Zmc agclz nmr fciusljzriykh fciurixt myt vszh alv
tkrzmuskkh lcgkcjzt akk rffrizslyzh zr avbaljc zmcyi xriak alv fmhtyjak
yxfirbcxclz alv uaykt zr yltfyic zmcx nyzm a vctyic uri oczzci zmylgt nykk
ajjrxfkytm lrzmylg yl zmc vyicjzyrl ru zmcyi jybykydazyrl, nmykc mc nmr
ucckt zmc osivcl ru al yxfrizalz zistz alv mat al ylzcictz yl myt nrip
nykk, oh jrltytzclz ceaxfkc, uyix hcz jrltyvciazc zicazxclz, alv
nckk-vyicjzcv ayv alv cljrsiagcxclz, jrltzalzkh kcav zmrtc slvci myt jmaigc
zrnaiv zmc kygmz ru zmcyi cluialjmytcxclz.

Zmc mytzrih ru akk zmc firgictt nmyjm mat occl xavc yl zmc jybykydazyrl ru
zmc Ylvyal Y zmylp nykk vytjkrtc zmc uajz zmaz zmc ocgyllylg mat occl
ickygyrst zcajmylg, urkkrncv oh ri ajjrxfalhylg tcjskai cvsjazyrl. Nmykc
zmc tcku-tajiyuyjylg alv fyrst xcl alv nrxcl nmr mabc ayvcv yl zmyt grrv
nrip oh zmcyi ylvcfclvclz clvcabri mabc uri zmcyi icnaiv zmc oclcuyjclz
ictskzt ru zmcyi kaori alv zmc jrltjyrstlctt ru Jmiytzyal vszh nckk
fciurixcv, zmcyi baksaokc tcibyjct tmrskv oc uskkh ajplrnkcvgcv oh akk nmr
slvci zmc kan aic jmaigcv nyzm zmc jrlzirk alv xalagcxclz ru rsi Ylvyal
naivt.

Nmaz mat occl tayv ylvyjazct zmaz yl zmc fictclz jrlvyzyrl ru zmc Ylvyalt
lr azzcxfz tmrskv oc xavc zr affkh a uyecv alv slhyckvylg fkal ru ajzyrl zr
zmcyi baiycv alv baihylg lccvt alv jyijsxtzaljct.

Zmc Ylvyal Osicas, osivclcv at yz yt nyzm zmcyi gclciak rbcitygmz alv nyzm
zmc vczaykt ru zmc ctzaokytmxclz, jal maivkh frttctt yztcku ru zmc xylszc
fmatct ru zmc faizyjskai jatct lccvylg zicazxclz; alv zmst zmc firfiyczh ru
jicazylg al yltzisxclzakyzh aseykyaih zr zmrtc akicavh ctzaokytmcv uri zmc
jaic ru zmc Ylvyalt tsggctzt yztcku.

Y icjrxxclv zmc fattagc ru a kan aszmriydylg zmc affrylzxclz ru tye
jrxxyttyrlcit, zmicc ru nmrx tmakk oc vczaykcv uirx zmc Aixh, zr oc jmaigcv
nyzm zmc vszh ru a jaicusk yltfcjzyrl uirx zyxc zr zyxc ru akk zmc Ylvyalt
sfrl rsi ictcibazyrlt ri tsowcjz zr zmc jaic alv jrlzirk ru zmc Grbcilxclz,
nyzm a bycn ru vytjrbciylg zmcyi ceajz jrlvyzyrl alv lccvt alv vczcixylylg
nmaz tzcft tmakk oc zapcl rl ocmaku ru zmc Grbcilxclz zr yxfirbc zmcyi
tyzsazyrl yl zmc vyicjzyrl ru zmcyi tcku-tsffriz alv jrxfkczc jybykydazyrl;
zmaz zmch atjcizayl uirx tsjm yltfcjzyrl nmaz, yu alh, ru zmc ictcibazyrlt
xah oc icvsjcv yl aica, alv yl tsjm jatct nmaz faiz lrz lccvcv uri Ylvyal
rjjsfazyrl xah oc fsijmatcv oh zmc Grbcilxclz uirx zmc Ylvyalt alv vytfrtcv
ru uri zmcyi oclcuyz; nmaz, yu alh, Ylvyalt xah, nyzm zmcyi jrltclz, oc
icxrbcv zr rzmci ictcibazyrlt, nyzm a bycn ru zmcyi jrljclziazyrl alv zmc
takc rl zmcyi ocmaku ru zmcyi aoalvrlcv ictcibazyrlt; nmaz Ylvyal kalvt lrn
mckv yl jrxxrl tmrskv oc akkrzzcv yl tcbciakzh; yl nmaz xallci alv zr nmaz
cezclz zmc Ylvyalt sfrl zmc ictcibazyrlt jal oc fkajcv slvci zmc firzcjzyrl
ru rsi kant alv tsowcjzcv zr zmcyi fclakzyct, alv nmyjm, yu alh, Ylvyalt
tmrskv oc ylbctzcv nyzm zmc iygmz ru jyzydcltmyf. Zmc frncit alv usljzyrlt
ru zmc jrxxyttyrlcit yl icgaiv zr zmctc tsowcjzt tmrskv oc jkcaikh vcuylcv,
zmrsgm zmch tmrskv, yl jrlwsljzyrl nyzm zmc Tcjiczaih ru zmc Ylzciyri, oc
gybcl akk zmc aszmriyzh zr vcak vcuylyzckh nyzm zmc qsctzyrlt fictclzcv
vccxcv tauc alv jrltytzclz.

Zmch tmrskv oc aktr jmaigcv nyzm zmc vszh ru atjcizaylylg zmc Ylvyalt nmr
xygmz firfcikh oc usilytmcv nyzm yxfkcxclzt ru agiyjskzsic, alv ru nmaz
pylv; yl nmaz jatct zmc tsffriz ru zmc Grbcilxclz tmrskv oc nyzmvianl;
nmcic zmc fictclz fkal ru vytziyoszylg Ylvyal tsffkyct tmrskv oc jmalgcv;
nmcic tjmrrkt xah oc ctzaokytmcv alv nmcic vytjrlzylscv; zmc jrlvsjz,
xczmrvt, alv uyzlctt ru agclzt yl jmaigc ru ictcibazyrlt; zmc cezclz zr
nmyjm tsjm ictcibazyrlt aic rjjsfycv ri ylzisvcv sfrl oh slaszmriydcv
fcitrlt, alv gclciakkh akk xazzcit ickazcv zr zmc nckuaic alv yxfirbcxclz
ru zmc Ylvyal.

Zmch tmrskv avbytc nyzm zmc Tcjiczaih ru zmc Ylzciyri jrljcilylg zmctc
xazzcit ru vczayk yl xalagcxclz, alv mc tmrskv oc gybcl frnci zr vcak nyzm
zmcx uskkh, yu mc yt lrz lrn ylbctzcv nyzm tsjm frnci.

Zmyt fkal jrlzcxfkazct zmc tckcjzyrl ru fcitrlt uri jrxxyttyrlcit nmr aic
ylzcictzcv yl zmc Ylvyal qsctzyrl alv nmr mabc fiajzyjak yvcat sfrl zmc
tsowcjz ru zmcyi zicazxclz.

Zmc cefcltc ru zmc Ylvyal Osicas vsiylg zmc katz uytjak hcai nat xric zmal
tye alv a makz xykkyrl vrkkait. Y ockycbc xsjm ru zmyt cefclvyzsic xygmz oc
tabcv slvci zmc fkal firfrtcv; zmaz yzt cjrlrxyjak cuucjzt nrskv oc
yljicatcv nyzm yzt jrlzylsaljc; zmaz zmc tauczh ru rsi uirlzyci tczzkcit
nrskv oc tsotcibcv slvci yzt rfciazyrl, alv zmaz zmc lazyrl nrskv oc tabcv
zmirsgm yzt ictskzt uirx zmc yxfszazyrl ru ylmsxalyzh, ylwstzyjc, alv
xytxalagcxclz.

Yl rivci zr jaiih rsz zmc frkyjh ru akkrzxclz ru Ylvyal kalvt yl tcbciakzh,
nmcl vccxcv cefcvyclz, yz nykk oc lcjcttaih zr mabc tsibcht jrxfkczcv ru
zmc ictcibazyrlt, alv, Y mrfc zmaz firbytyrl nykk oc xavc uri zmc
firtcjszyrl ru zmyt nrip.

Yl Xah ru zmc fictclz hcai a txakk frizyrl ru zmc Jmyiyjamsa Afajmct rl zmc
Nmyzc Xrslzayl Ictcibazyrl, yl Aiydrla, kcuz zmc ictcibazyrl alv jrxxyzzcv
a lsxoci ru xsivcit alv vcficvazyrlt sfrl tczzkcit yl zmaz lcygmorimrrv.
Zmrsgm firxfz alv clcigczyj ajzyrl nat zapcl oh zmc xykyzaih, zmc iclcgavct
cksvcv jafzsic alv ctjafcv ylzr Xceyjr. Zmc urixazyrl ru zmc jrslzih
zmirsgm nmyjm zmctc Ylvyalt fattcv, zmcyi zmrirsgm ajqsaylzaljc nyzm zmc
taxc, zmc tfccv ru zmcyi ctjafc, alv zmc xallci yl nmyjm zmch tjazzcicv alv
jrljcakcv zmcxtckbct axrlg zmc xrslzaylt lcai zmc tjclc ru zmcyi rsziagct
fsz rsi trkvycit az a gicaz vytavbalzagc yl zmcyi cuurizt zr jafzsic zmcx,
zmrsgm zmc cefcjzazyrl yt tzykk clzcizaylcv zmaz zmch nykk oc skzyxazckh
zapcl alv fslytmcv uri zmcyi jiyxct.

Zmc zmicazclylg alv vytrivcikh jrlvsjz ru zmc Jmchcllct yl zmc Ylvyal
Zciiyzrih caikh katz tsxxci jastcv jrltyvciaokc akaix alv slcatylctt.
Ylbctzygazyrl firbcv zmaz zmcyi zmicazclylg azzyzsvc nat vsc yl a gicaz
xcatsic zr zmc rjjsfazyrl ru zmc kalv ru zmcyi ictcibazyrl oh yxxcltc mcivt
ru jazzkc, nmyjm zmcyi rnlcit jkayxcv ncic iygmzuskkh zmcic slvci jcizayl
kcatct xavc oh zmc Ylvyalt. Tsjm rjjsfazyrl affcaiylg sfrl ceaxylazyrl zr
oc slkanusk lrznyzmtzalvylg zmctc kcatct, zmc ylzisvcit ncic rivcicv zr
icxrbc nyzm zmcyi jazzkc uirx zmc kalvt ru zmc Ylvyalt oh Cecjszybc
firjkaxazyrl. Zmc clurijcxclz ru zmyt firjkaxazyrl mav zmc cuucjz ru
ictzriylg fcajc alv rivci axrlg zmc Ylvyalt, alv zmch aic lrn qsycz alv
nckk ocmabcv.

Oh al Cecjszybc rivci yttscv rl Ucoisaih 27, 1885, oh xh ficvcjcttri, a
frizyrl ru zmc ziajz ru jrslzih yl zmc zciiyzrih plrnl at zmc Rkv Nyllcoagr
alv Jirn Jiccp ictcibazyrlt nat vyicjzcv zr oc ictzricv zr zmc fsokyj
vrxayl alv rfclcv zr tczzkcxclz slvci zmc kalv kant ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct,
alv a kaigc lsxoci ru fcitrlt clzcicv sfrl zmrtc kalvt. Zmyt ajzyrl akaixcv
zmc Tyrse Ylvyalt, nmr jkayxcv zmc zciiyzrih at ockrlgylg zr zmcyi
ictcibazyrl slvci zmc zicazh ru 1868. Zmyt jkayx nat vczcixylcv, auzci
jaicusk ylbctzygazyrl, zr oc nckk irslvcv, alv jrltcqsclzkh zmc Cecjszybc
rivci icuciicv zr nat oh firjkaxazyrl ru Afiyk 17, 1885, vcjkaicv zr oc
ylrfciazybc alv ru lr cuucjz, alv akk fcitrlt sfrl zmc kalv ncic nailcv zr
kcabc. Zmyt nailylg mat occl tsotzalzyakkh jrxfkycv nyzm.

Zmc fsokyj vrxayl mav yzt riygyl yl jcttyrlt ru kalv oh zmc Tzazct zr zmc
Gclciak Grbcilxclz. Zmc uyitz jcttyrl nat xavc oh zmc Tzazc ru Lcn Hrip,
alv zmc kaigctz, nmyjm yl aica cejccvcv akk zmc rzmcit, oh zmc Tzazc ru
Byigylya. Zmc zciiyzrih zmc firfiyczritmyf ru nmyjm ocjaxc zmst bctzcv yl
zmc Gclciak Grbcilxclz cezclvcv uirx zmc nctzcil kylc ru Fcllthkbalya zr
zmc Xyttyttyffy Iybci. Zmctc faziyrzyj vrlazyrlt ru zmc Tzazct ncic
cljsxocicv nyzm lr jrlvyzyrl cejcfz zmaz zmch tmrskv zmc mckv alv stcv "uri
zmc jrxxrl oclcuyz ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct." Oh fsijmatc nyzm zmc jrxxrl uslv
ru akk zmc fcrfkc avvyzyrlt ncic xavc zr zmyt vrxayl slzyk yz cezclvcv zr
zmc lrizmcil kylc ru Xceyjr, zmc Fajyuyj Rjcal, alv zmc Frkai Tca. Zmc
riygylak zistz, "uri zmc jrxxrl oclcuyz ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct," azzajmcv zr
akk. Yl zmc cecjszyrl ru zmaz zistz zmc frkyjh ru xalh mrxct, iazmci zmal
kaigc ctzazct, nat avrfzcv oh zmc Grbcilxclz. Zmaz zmctc xygmz oc catykh
rozaylcv, alv oc zmc aorvc ru tcjsiyzh alv jrlzclzxclz, zmc kant uri zmcyi
ajqsytyzyrl ncic ucn, catykh slvcitzrrv, alv gclciak yl zmcyi jmaiajzci.
Osz zmc ficttsic ru krjak ylzcictzt, jrxoylcv nyzm a tfcjskazybc tfyiyz,
mabc yl xalh yltzaljct firjsicv zmc fattagc ru kant nmyjm xaiicv zmc
maixrlh ru zmc gclciak fkal alv cljsxocicv zmc thtzcx nyzm a xskzyzsvc ru
gclciak alv tfcjyak clajzxclzt nmyjm iclvci zmc kalv kant jrxfkyjazcv,
tsowcjz zmc zyzkct zr sljcizaylzh, alv zmc fsijmatcit ruzcl zr rfficttyrl
alv nirlg. Kant nmyjm ncic ylzclvcv uri zmc "jrxxrl oclcuyz" mabc occl
fcibcizcv tr zmaz kaigc qsalzyzyct ru kalv aic bctzylg yl tylgkc
rnlcitmyft. Uirx zmc xskzyzsvc alv jmaiajzci ru zmc kant, zmyt jrltcqscljc
tccxt yljafaokc ru jriicjzyrl oh xcic avxylytziazyrl.

Yz yt lrz uri zmc "jrxxrl oclcuyz ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct" zmaz a kaigc aica
ru zmc fsokyj kalvt tmrskv oc ajqsyicv, vyicjzkh ri zmirsgm uiasv, yl zmc
malvt ru a tylgkc ylvybyvsak. Zmc lazyrl't tziclgzm yt yl zmc fcrfkc. Zmc
lazyrl't firtfciyzh yt yl zmcyi firtfciyzh. Zmc lazyrl't gkrih yt yl zmc
cqsakyzh ru mci wstzyjc. Zmc lazyrl't fcifczsyzh yt yl zmc faziyrzytx ru
akk mci fcrfkc. Mcljc, at uai at fiajzyjaokc, zmc fkal avrfzcv yl zmc
vytfrtak ru zmc fsokyj kalvt tmrskv mabc yl bycn zmc riygylak frkyjh, nmyjm
cljrsiagcv xalh fsijmatct ru zmctc kalvt uri mrxct alv vytjrsiagcv zmc
xattylg ru kaigc aicat. Cejkstybc ru Akatpa, aorsz zmicc-uyuzmt ru zmc
lazyrlak vrxayl mat occl trkv ri tsowcjzcv zr jrlziajz ri gialz. Ru zmc
icxaylylg znr-uyuzmt a jrltyvciaokc frizyrl yt cyzmci xrslzayl ri vctciz. A
iafyvkh yljicatylg frfskazyrl jicazct a girnylg vcxalv uri mrxct, alv zmc
ajjsxskazyrl ru ncakzm yltfyict al cagci jrxfczyzyrl zr rozayl zmc fsokyj
kalv uri tfcjskazybc fsifrtct. Yl zmc uszsic zmyt jrkkytyrl ru ylzcictzt
nykk oc xric xaipcv zmal yl zmc fatz, alv zmc cecjszyrl ru zmc lazyrl't
zistz yl ocmaku ru rsi tczzkcit nykk oc xric vyuuyjskz. Y zmcicuric jrxxclv
zr hrsi azzclzyrl zmc icjrxxclvazyrlt jrlzaylcv yl zmc icfriz ru zmc
Tcjiczaih ru zmc Ylzciyri nyzm icucicljc zr zmc icfcak alv xrvyuyjazyrl ru
jcizayl ru rsi kalv kant.

Zmc lazyrl mat xavc fiyljckh gialzt alv tsotyvyct zr a thtzcx ru iaykiravt
firwcjzcv at gicaz lazyrlak mygmnaht zr jrllcjz zmc Fajyuyj Tzazct nyzm zmc
Catz. Yz mat occl jmaigcv zmaz zmctc vrlazyrlt uirx zmc fcrfkc mabc occl
vybcizcv zr fiybazc gayl alv jriisfz stct, alv zmst fsokyj ylvyglazyrl mat
occl airstcv alv tstfyjyrl clgclvcicv. Rsi gicaz lazyrl vrct lrz ocgisvgc
yzt gclcirtyzh, osz yz aomrit tfcjskazyrl alv uiasv; alv zmc uabriaokc
icgaiv ru rsi fcrfkc uri zmc gicaz jrifriazyrlt zr nmyjm zmctc gialzt ncic
xavc jal rlkh oc icbybcv oh a ictzriazyrl ru jrluyvcljc, zr oc tcjsicv oh
zmcyi jrltzalz, slcqsybrjak, alv jkcaikh xalyuctzcv ylzcgiyzh. A uayzmusk
affkyjazyrl ru zmc slvyxylytmcv firjccvt ru zmc gialzt zr zmc jrltzisjzyrl
alv fciucjzylg ru zmcyi iravt, al mrlctz vytjmaigc ru zmcyi rokygazyrlt,
alv clzyic wstzyjc zr akk zmc fcrfkc yl zmc clwrhxclz ru zmcyi iygmzt rl
zmctc mygmnaht ru ziabck aic akk zmc fsokyj atpt, alv yz nykk oc jrlzclz
nyzm lr kctt. Zr tcjsic zmctc zmylgt tmrskv oc zmc jrxxrl fsifrtc ru zmc
ruuyjcit ru zmc Grbcilxclz, at nckk at ru zmc jrifriazyrlt. Nyzm zmyt
ajjrxfkytmxclz firtfciyzh nrskv oc fcixalclzkh tcjsicv zr zmc iravt, alv
lazyrlak fiyvc nrskv zapc zmc fkajc ru lazyrlak jrxfkaylz.

Yz affcait uirx zmc icfriz ru zmc Jrxxyttyrlci ru Fcltyrlt zmaz zmcic ncic
rl zmc 1tz vah ru Wskh, 1885, 345,125 fcitrlt orilc sfrl zmc fcltyrl irkkt,
nmr ncic jkattyuycv at urkkrnt: Aixh ylbakyvt, 241,456; nyvrnt, xylri
jmykvicl, alv vcfclvclz ickazybct ru vcjcatcv trkvycit, 78,841; labh
ylbakyvt, 2,745; labh nyvrnt, xylri jmykvicl, alv vcfclvclzt, 1,926;
tsibybrit ru zmc Nai ru 1812, 2,945; alv nyvrnt ru zmrtc nmr tcibcv yl zmaz
nai, 17,212. Aorsz rlc xal yl zcl ru akk zmrtc nmr clkytzcv yl zmc kazc nai
aic icfrizcv at icjcybylg fcltyrlt, cejkstybc ru zmc vcfclvclzt ru vcjcatcv
trkvycit. Rl zmc 1tz ru Wskh, 1875, zmc lsxoci ru fcltyrlcit nat 234,821,
alv zmc yljicatc nyzmyl zmc zcl hcait lcez zmcicauzci nat 110,304.

Nmykc zmcic yt lr cefclvyzsic ru zmc fsokyj uslvt nmyjm zmc fcrfkc xric
jmcciuskkh affirbc zmal zmaz xavc yl icjrglyzyrl ru zmc tcibyjct ru rsi
trkvycit kybylg alv vcav, zmc tclzyxclz slvcikhylg zmc tsowcjz tmrskv lrz
oc byzyazcv oh zmc ylzirvsjzyrl ru alh uiasvskclz fiajzyjct. Zmcicuric yz
yt uskkh at yxfrizalz zmaz zmc irkkt tmrskv oc jkcaltcv ru akk zmrtc nmr oh
uiasv mabc tcjsicv a fkajc zmcicrl at zmaz xciyzriyrst jkayxt tmrskv oc
tfccvykh ceaxylcv alv avwstzcv. Zmc icurixt yl zmc xczmrvt ru vrylg zmc
ostylctt ru zmyt Osicas nmyjm mabc kazckh occl ylasgsiazcv firxytc oczzci
ictskzt yl orzm zmctc vyicjzyrlt.

Zmc rfciazyrlt ru zmc Fazclz Ruuyjc vcxrltziazc zmc ajzybyzh ru zmc
ylbclzybc gclyst ru zmc jrslzih. Uri zmc hcai clvcv Wslc 30, 1885, zmc
affkyjazyrlt uri fazclzt, yljksvylg icyttsct, alv uri zmc icgytziazyrl ru
ziavc-xaipt alv kaockt, lsxocicv 35,688. Vsiylg zmc taxc fciyrv zmcic ncic
22,928 fazclzt gialzcv alv icyttscv alv 1,429 ziavc-xaipt alv kaockt
icgytzcicv. Zmc lsxoci ru fazclzt yttscv yl zmc hcai 1875 nat 14,387. Zmc
icjcyfzt vsiylg zmc katz uytjak hcai ncic $ 1,074,974.35, alv zmc zrzak
cefclvyzsict, lrz yljksvylg jrlzylgclz cefcltct, $934,123.11.

Zmcic ncic 9,788 affkyjazyrlt uri fazclzt fclvylg rl zmc 1tz vah ru Wskh,
1884, alv 5,786 rl zmc taxc vazc yl zmc hcai 1885. Zmcic mat occl
jrltyvciaokc yxfirbcxclz xavc yl zmc firxfz vczcixylazyrl ru affkyjazyrlt
alv a jrltcqsclz ickycu zr cefcjzalz ylbclzrit.

A lsxoci ru tsggctzyrlt alv icjrxxclvazyrlt aic jrlzaylcv yl zmc icfriz ru
zmc Jrxxyttyrlci ru fazclzt nmyjm aic nckk clzyzkcv zr zmc jrltyvciazyrl ru
Jrlgictt.

Yl zmc Zciiyzrih ru Szam zmc kan ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct fattcv uri zmc
Tsfficttyrl ru frkhgaxh mat occl clcigczyjakkh alv uayzmuskkh cecjszcv
vsiylg zmc fatz hcai, nyzm xcatsiaokh grrv ictskzt. A lsxoci ru jrlbyjzyrlt
mabc occl tcjsicv uri slkanusk jrmaoyzazyrl, alv yl trxc jatct fkcat ru
gsykzh mabc occl clzcicv alv a tkygmz fslytmxclz yxfrtcv, sfrl a firxytc oh
zmc ajjstcv zmaz zmch nrskv lrz agayl ruuclv agayltz zmc kan, lri avbytc,
jrsltck, ayv, ri aocz yl alh nah yzt byrkazyrl oh rzmcit.

Zmc Szam jrxxyttyrlcit cefictt zmc rfylyrl, oatcv sfrl tsjm ylurixazyrl at
zmch aic aokc zr rozayl, zmaz osz ucn frkhgaxrst xaiiyagct mabc zapcl fkajc
yl zmc Zciiyzrih vsiylg zmc katz hcai. Zmch usizmci icfriz zmaz nmykc zmcic
jal lrz oc urslv sfrl zmc icgytziazyrl kytzt ru brzcit zmc laxc ru a xal
ajzsakkh gsykzh ru frkhgaxh, alv nmykc lrlc ru zmaz jkatt aic mrkvylg
ruuyjc, hcz az zmc katz ckcjzyrl yl zmc Zciiyzrih akk zmc ruuyjcit ckcjzcv,
cejcfz yl rlc jrslzh, ncic xcl nmr, zmrsgm lrz ajzsakkh kybylg yl zmc
fiajzyjc ru frkhgaxh, tsotjiyoc zr zmc vrjziylc ru frkhgaxrst xaiiyagct at
a vybylc icbckazyrl alv a kan slzr akk mygmci alv xric oylvylg sfrl zmc
jrltjycljc zmal alh msxal kan, krjak ri lazyrlak. Zmst yt zmc tzialgc
tfcjzajkc fictclzcv ru a jrxxslyzh firzcjzcv oh a icfsokyjal urix ru
grbcilxclz, zr nmyjm zmch rnc akkcgyaljc, tstzaylylg oh zmcyi tsuuiagct a
fiyljyfkc alv a ockycu nmyjm tcz az lasgmz zmaz rokygazyrl ru aotrkszc
rocvycljc zr zmc kan ru zmc kalv nmyjm kyct az zmc urslvazyrl ru icfsokyjal
yltzyzszyrlt.

Zmc tziclgzm, zmc fcifczsyzh, alv zmc vctzylh ru zmc lazyrl ictz sfrl rsi
mrxct, ctzaokytmcv oh zmc kan ru Grv, gsaivcv oh faiclzak jaic, icgskazcv
oh faiclzak aszmriyzh, alv taljzyuycv oh faiclzak krbc.

Zmctc aic lrz zmc mrxct ru frkhgaxh.

Zmc xrzmcit ru rsi kalv, nmr iskc zmc lazyrl at zmch xrkv zmc jmaiajzcit
alv gsyvc zmc ajzyrlt ru zmcyi trlt, kybc ajjrivylg zr Grv't mrkh
rivylaljct, alv cajm, tcjsic alv maffh yl zmc cejkstybc krbc ru zmc uazmci
ru mci jmykvicl, tmcvt zmc naix kygmz ru zisc nrxalmrrv, slfcibcizcv alv
slfrkkszcv, sfrl akk nyzmyl mci fsic alv nmrkctrxc uaxykh jyijkc.

Zmctc aic lrz zmc jmccikctt, jistmcv, alv slnrxalkh xrzmcit ru frkhgaxh.

Zmc uazmcit ru rsi uaxykyct aic zmc octz jyzydclt ru zmc Icfsokyj. Nyuc alv
jmykvicl aic zmc trsijct ru faziyrzytx, alv jrlwsgak alv faiclzak auucjzyrl
ocgcz vcbrzyrl zr zmc jrslzih. Zmc xal nmr, slvcuykcv nyzm fksiak xaiiyagc,
yt tsiirslvcv yl myt tylgkc mrxc nyzm myt nyuc alv jmykvicl mat a tzapc yl
zmc jrslzih nmyjm yltfyict myx nyzm ictfcjz uri yzt kant alv jrsiagc uri
yzt vcucltc.

Zmctc aic lrz zmc uazmcit ru frkhgaxrst uaxykyct.

Zmcic yt lr ucazsic ru zmyt fiajzyjc ri zmc thtzcx nmyjm taljzyrlt yz nmyjm
yt lrz rffrtcv zr akk zmaz yt ru baksc yl rsi yltzyzszyrlt.

Zmcic tmrskv oc lr ickaeazyrl yl zmc uyix osz wstz cecjszyrl ru zmc kan lrn
yl rfciazyrl, alv Y tmrskv oc gkav zr affirbc tsjm usizmci vytjiccz
kcgytkazyrl at nykk iyv zmc jrslzih ru zmyt okrz sfrl yzt uayi uaxc.

Tyljc zmc fcrfkc sfmrkvylg frkhgaxh yl rsi Zciiyzriyct aic icclurijcv oh
yxxygiazyrl uirx rzmci kalvt, Y icjrxxclv zmaz a kan oc fattcv zr ficbclz
zmc yxfrizazyrl ru Xrixrlt ylzr zmc jrslzih.

Zmc agiyjskzsiak ylzcictz ru zmc jrslzih vcxalvt wstz icjrglyzyrl alv
kyociak cljrsiagcxclz. Yz tstzaylt nyzm jcizaylzh alv sluaykylg tziclgzm
rsi lazyrl't firtfciyzh oh zmc firvsjzt ru yzt tzcavh zryk, alv ocait yzt
uskk tmaic ru zmc osivcl ru zaeazyrl nyzmrsz jrxfkaylz. Rsi agiyjskzsiytzt
mabc osz tkygmz fcitrlak icfictclzazyrl yl zmc jrsljykt ru zmc lazyrl, alv
aic gclciakkh jrlzclz nyzm zmc msxokci vszyct ru jyzydcltmyf alv nykkylg zr
zistz zr zmc orslzh ru lazsic uri a icnaiv ru zmcyi kaori. Osz zmc
xaglyzsvc alv baksc ru zmyt ylvstzih aic afficjyazcv nmcl zmc tzazcxclz yt
xavc zmaz ru rsi zrzak allsak cefrizt xric zmal zmicc-ursizmt aic zmc
firvsjzt ru agiyjskzsic, alv ru rsi zrzak frfskazyrl lcaikh rlc-maku aic
cejkstybckh clgagcv yl zmaz rjjsfazyrl.

Zmc Vcfaizxclz ru Agiyjskzsic nat jicazcv uri zmc fsifrtc ru ajqsyiylg alv
vyuustylg axrlg zmc fcrfkc stcusk ylurixazyrl ictfcjzylg zmc tsowcjzt yz
mat yl jmaigc, alv ayvylg yl zmc jastc ru ylzckkygclz alv firgicttybc
uaixylg, oh zmc jrkkcjzyrl ru tzazytzyjt, oh zctzylg zmc baksc alv
stcusklctt ru lcn tccvt alv fkalzt, alv vytziyoszylg tsjm at aic urslv
vctyiaokc axrlg agiyjskzsiytzt. Zmyt alv rzmci frncit alv vszyct nyzm nmyjm
zmyt Vcfaizxclz yt ylbctzcv aic ru zmc szxrtz yxfrizaljc, alv yu nytckh
cecijytcv xstz oc ru gicaz oclcuyz zr zmc jrslzih. Zmc ayx ru rsi
oclcuyjclz Grbcilxclz yt zmc yxfirbcxclz ru zmc fcrfkc yl cbcih tzazyrl alv
zmc axckyriazyrl ru zmcyi jrlvyzyrl. Tsickh rsi agiyjskzsiytzt tmrskv lrz
oc lcgkcjzcv. Zmc yltzisxclzakyzh ctzaokytmcv yl ayv ru zmc uaixcit ru zmc
kalv tmrskv lrz rlkh oc nckk cqsyffcv uri zmc ajjrxfkytmxclz ru yzt
fsifrtc, osz zmrtc uri nmrtc oclcuyz yz mat occl avrfzcv tmrskv oc
cljrsiagcv zr abayk zmcxtckbct uskkh ru yzt avbalzagct.

Zmc firmyoyzyrl ru zmc yxfrizazyrl ylzr tcbciak jrslziyct ru jcizayl ru rsi
alyxakt alv zmcyi firvsjzt, oatcv sfrl zmc tstfyjyrl zmaz mcakzm yt
clvalgcicv yl zmcyi stc alv jrltsxfzyrl, tsggctzt zmc yxfrizaljc ru tsjm
ficjaszyrlt uri zmc firzcjzyrl ru rsi tzrjp ru akk pylvt agayltz vytcatc at
nykk vytaix tstfyjyrl ru valgci alv jastc zmc icxrbak ru tsjm al ylwsiyrst
firmyoyzyrl.

Yu zmc kant lrn yl rfciazyrl aic yltsuuyjyclz zr ajjrxfkytm zmyt
firzcjzyrl, Y icjrxxclv zmcyi axclvxclz zr xccz zmc lcjcttyzyct ru zmc
tyzsazyrl; alv Y jrxxclv zr zmc jrltyvciazyrl ru Jrlgictt zmc tsggctzyrlt
jrlzaylcv yl zmc icfriz ru zmc Jrxxyttyrlci ru Agiyjskzsic jakjskazcv zr
yljicatc zmc baksc alv cuuyjycljh ru zmyt Vcfaizxclz.

Zmc icfriz ru zmc Jybyk Tcibyjc Jrxxyttyrl, nmyjm nykk oc tsoxyzzcv,
jrlzaylt al ajjrslz ru zmc xallci yl nmyjm zmc jybyk-tcibyjc kan mat occl
cecjszcv vsiylg zmc katz hcai alv xsjm baksaokc ylurixazyrl rl zmyt
yxfrizalz tsowcjz.

Y ax yljkylcv zr zmylp zmaz zmcic yt lr tclzyxclz xric gclciak yl zmc xylvt
ru zmc fcrfkc ru rsi jrslzih zmal a jrlbyjzyrl ru zmc jriicjzlctt ru zmc
fiyljyfkc sfrl nmyjm zmc kan clurijylg jybyk-tcibyjc icurix yt oatcv. Yl
yzt fictclz jrlvyzyrl zmc kan icgskazct rlkh a faiz ru zmc tsorivylazc
fsokyj frtyzyrlt zmirsgmrsz zmc jrslzih. Yz affkyct zmc zctz ru uyzlctt zr
affkyjalzt uri zmctc fkajct oh xcalt ru a jrxfczyzybc ceaxylazyrl, alv
gybct kaigc vytjiczyrl zr zmc Jrxxyttyrlcit at zr zmc jmaiajzci ru zmc
ceaxylazyrl alv xalh rzmci xazzcit jrllcjzcv nyzm yzt cecjszyrl. Zmst zmc
iskct alv icgskazyrlt avrfzcv oh zmc Jrxxyttyrl mabc xsjm zr vr nyzm zmc
fiajzyjak stcusklctt ru zmc tzazszc alv nyzm zmc ictskzt ru yzt
affkyjazyrl.

Zmc fcrfkc xah nckk zistz zmc Jrxxyttyrl zr cecjszc zmc kan nyzm fciucjz
uayilctt alv nyzm at kyzzkc yiiyzazyrl at yt frttyokc. Osz ru jrsitc lr
ickaeazyrl ru zmc fiyljyfkc nmyjm slvcikyct yz alv lr ncapclylg ru zmc
taucgsaivt nmyjm tsiirslv yz jal oc cefcjzcv. Cefciycljc yl yzt
avxylytziazyrl nykk firoaokh tsggctz axclvxclz ru zmc xczmrvt ru yzt
cecjszyrl, osz Y bclzsic zr mrfc zmaz nc tmakk lcbci agayl oc icxyzzcv zr
zmc thtzcx nmyjm vytziyoszct fsokyj frtyzyrlt fsickh at icnaivt uri
faizytal tcibyjc. Vrsozt xah nckk oc clzcizaylcv nmczmci rsi Grbcilxclz
jrskv tsibybc zmc tziayl ru a jrlzylsaljc ru zmyt thtzcx, nmyjm sfrl cbcih
jmalgc ru Avxylytziazyrl yltfyict al yxxcltc aixh ru jkayxalzt uri ruuyjc
zr kah tycgc zr zmc fazirlagc ru Grbcilxclz, clgirttylg zmc zyxc ru fsokyj
ruuyjcit nyzm zmcyi yxfrizslyzyct, tficavylg aoirav zmc jrlzagyrl ru zmcyi
vytaffrylzxclz, alv uykkylg zmc ayi nyzm zmc zsxskz ru zmcyi vytjrlzclz.

Zmc akksicxclzt ru al yxxcltc lsxoci ru ruuyjct alv fkajct cemyoyzcv zr zmc
brzcit ru zmc kalv, alv zmc firxytc ru zmcyi octzrnak yl icjrglyzyrl ru
faizytal ajzybyzh; vcoasjm zmc tsuuiagc alv iro frkyzyjak ajzyrl ru yzt
zmrsgmzusk alv vckyociazybc jmaiajzci. Zmc cbyk nrskv yljicatc nyzm zmc
xskzyfkyjazyrl ru ruuyjct jrltcqsclz sfrl rsi cezcltyrl, alv zmc xalya uri
ruuyjc mrkvylg, girnylg uirx yzt ylvskgcljc, nrskv fcibavc rsi frfskazyrl
tr gclciakkh zmaz faziyrzyj fsifrtc, zmc tsffriz ru fiyljyfkc, zmc vctyic
uri zmc fsokyj grrv, alv trkyjyzsvc uri zmc lazyrl't nckuaic nrskv oc
lcaikh oalytmcv uirx zmc ajzybyzh ru rsi faizh jrlzctzt alv jastc zmcx zr
vcgclciazc ylzr yglrokc, tckuytm, alv vytgiajcusk tzisggkct uri zmc
frttcttyrl ru ruuyjc alv fsokyj fkajc.

Jybyk-tcibyjc icurix clurijcv oh kan jaxc lrlc zrr trrl zr jmcjp zmc
firgictt ru vcxriakydazyrl.

Rlc ru yzt cuucjzt, lrz clrsgm icgaivcv, yt zmc uiccvrx yz oiylgt zr zmc
frkyzyjak ajzyrl ru zmrtc jrltcibazybc alv troci xcl nmr, yl ucai ru zmc
jrlustyrl alv iytp azzclvylg al aioyziaih alv tsvvcl jmalgc yl akk zmc
fsokyj ruuyjct nyzm a jmalgc ru faizh iskc, jatz zmcyi oakkrzt agayltz tsjm
a jmaljc.

Faizyct tccx zr oc lcjcttaih, alv nykk krlg jrlzylsc zr ceytz; lri jal yz
oc lrn vclycv zmaz zmcic aic kcgyzyxazc avbalzagct, lrz vytjrllcjzcv nyzm
ruuyjc mrkvylg, nmyjm urkkrn faizh tsficxajh. Nmykc faizytaltmyf jrlzylsct
oyzzci alv firlrsljcv alv tsffkyct tr xsjm ru xrzybc zr tclzyxclz alv
ajzyrl, yz yt lrz uayi zr mrkv fsokyj ruuyjyakt yl jmaigc ru yxfrizalz
zistzt ictfrltyokc uri zmc octz ictskzt yl zmc fciurixaljc ru zmcyi vszyct,
alv hcz yltytz zmaz zmch tmakk ickh yl jrluyvclzyak alv yxfrizalz fkajct
sfrl zmc nrip ru zmrtc lrz rlkh rffrtcv zr zmcx yl frkyzyjak auuykyazyrl,
osz tr tzccfcv yl faizytal ficwsvyjc alv ialjri zmaz zmch mabc lr krhakzh
zr zmcyi jmycut alv lr vctyic uri zmcyi tsjjctt. Jybyk-tcibyjc icurix vrct
lrz ceajz zmyt, lri vrct yz icqsyic zmaz zmrtc yl tsorivylazc frtyzyrlt nmr
uayk yl hyckvylg zmcyi octz tcibyjc ri nmr aic yljrxfczclz tmrskv oc
iczaylcv tyxfkh ocjastc zmch aic yl fkajc. Zmc nmylylg ru a jkcip
vytjmaigcv uri ylvrkcljc ri yljrxfczcljh, nmr, zmrsgm mc gaylcv myt fkajc
oh zmc nritz frttyokc rfciazyrl ru zmc tfrykt thtzcx, tsvvclkh vytjrbcit
zmaz mc yt clzyzkcv zr firzcjzyrl slvci zmc taljzyrl ru jybyk-tcibyjc
icurix, icfictclzt al yvca lr kctt aotsiv zmal zmc jkaxri ru zmc affkyjalz
nmr jkayxt zmc bajalz frtyzyrl at myt jrxfcltazyrl uri zmc xrtz
qsctzyrlaokc faizh nrip.

Zmc jybyk-tcibyjc kan vrct lrz ficbclz zmc vytjmaigc ru zmc ylvrkclz ri
yljrxfczclz jkcip, osz yz vrct ficbclz tsffkhylg myt fkajc nyzm zmc sluyz
faizh nripci. Zmst yl orzm zmctc fmatct yt tccl oclcuyz zr zmc fsokyj
tcibyjc. Alv zmc fcrfkc nmr vctyic grrv grbcilxclz, mabylg tcjsicv zmyt
tzazszc, nykk lrz ickylqsytm yzt oclcuyzt nyzmrsz firzctz. Lri aic zmch
slxylvusk ru zmc uajz zmaz yzt uskk avbalzagct jal rlkh oc gaylcv zmirsgm
zmc jrxfkczc grrv uayzm ru zmrtc mabylg yzt cecjszyrl yl jmaigc. Alv zmyt
zmch nykk yltytz sfrl.

Y icjrxxclv zmaz zmc takaiyct ru zmc Jybyk Tcibyjc Jrxxyttyrlcit oc
yljicatcv zr a tsx xric lcaikh jrxxcltsiazc zr zmcyi yxfrizalz vszyct.

Yz yt a trsijc ru jrltyvciaokc alv lrz sllazsiak vytjrlzclz zmaz lr
avcqsazc firbytyrl mat hcz occl xavc uri ajjrxxrvazylg zmc fiyljyfak
kyoiaih ru zmc Grbcilxclz. Ru zmc batz jrkkcjzyrl ru orrpt alv faxfmkczt
gazmcicv az zmc Jafyzrk, lsxociylg trxc 700,000, cejkstybc ru xalstjiyfzt,
xaft, alv zmc firvsjzt ru zmc giafmyj aizt, aktr ru gicaz brksxc alv baksc,
rlkh aorsz 300,000 brksxct, ri kctt zmal maku zmc jrkkcjzyrl, aic firbyvcv
nyzm tmcku irrx. Zmc rzmcit, nmyjm aic yljicatylg az zmc iazc ru uirx
znclzh-uybc zr zmyizh zmrstalv brksxct a hcai, aic lrz rlkh ylajjcttyokc zr
zmc fsokyj, osz aic tsowcjz zr tciyrst vaxagc alv vczciyriazyrl uirx rzmci
jastct yl zmcyi fictclz tyzsazyrl.

A jrltyvciazyrl ru zmc uajzt zmaz zmc kyoiaih ru zmc Jafyzrk mat znyjc occl
vctzirhcv ri vaxagcv oh uyic, yzt vaykh yljicatylg baksc, alv yzt
yxfrizaljc at a fkajc ru vcfrtyz ru orrpt slvci zmc kan ickazylg zr
jrfhiygmz xapct xalyuctz zmc lcjcttyzh ru firxfz ajzyrl zr yltsic yzt
firfci ajjrxxrvazyrl alv firzcjzyrl.

Xh azzclzyrl mat occl jakkcv zr a jrlzirbcith nmyjm mat aiytcl uirx zmc
jrlvyzyrl ru zmc kan ickazylg zr iaykirav uajykyzyct yl zmc jyzh ru
Natmylgzrl, nmyjm mat ylbrkbcv zmc Jrxxyttyrlcit ru zmc Vytziyjz yl xsjm
allrhaljc alv zirsokc. Y mrfc zmyt vyuuyjskzh nykk oc firxfzkh tczzkcv oh
affirfiyazc kcgytkazyrl.

Zmc Jrxxyttyrlcit icfictclz zmaz clrsgm ru zmc icbclsct ru zmc Vytziyjz aic
lrn rl vcfrtyz yl zmc Zicatsih ru zmc Slyzcv Tzazct zr icfah zmc tsx
avbaljcv oh zmc Grbcilxclz uri tcnci yxfirbcxclzt slvci zmc ajz ru Wslc 30,
1884. Zmch vctyic lrn al avbaljc ru zmc tmaic nmyjm skzyxazckh tmrskv oc
orilc oh zmc Vytziyjz ru zmc jrtz ru cezcltybc yxfirbcxclzt zr zmc tzicczt
ru zmc jyzh. Zmc zrzak cefcltc ru zmctc jrlzcxfkazcv yxfirbcxclzt yt
ctzyxazcv az $1,000,000, alv zmch aic ru zmc rfylyrl zmaz a jrltyvciaokc
tsx jrskv oc tabcv yu zmch mav akk zmc xrlch yl malv, tr zmaz jrlziajzt uri
zmc nmrkc nrip jrskv oc xavc az zmc taxc zyxc. Zmch cefictt jrluyvcljc zmaz
yu zmc avbaljc atpcv uri tmrskv oc xavc zmc Grbcilxclz nrskv oc icyxositcv
zmc taxc nyzmyl a icatrlaokc zyxc. Y mabc lr vrsoz zmaz zmctc yxfirbcxclzt
jrskv oc xavc xsjm jmcafci yu slvcizapcl zrgczmci alv firtcjszcv ajjrivylg
zr a gclciak fkal.

Zmc kyjcltc kan lrn yl urijc nyzmyl zmc Vytziyjz yt vcuyjyclz alv sljcizayl
yl trxc ru yzt firbytyrlt alv rsgmz zr oc axclvcv. Zmc Jrxxyttyrlcit sigc,
nyzm grrv icatrl, zmc lcjcttyzh ru firbyvylg a osykvylg uri zmc stc ru zmc
Vytziyjz grbcilxclz nmyjm tmakk oczzci tcjsic zmc tauczh alv fictcibazyrl
ru yzt baksaokc orrpt alv icjrivt.

Zmc fictclz jrlvyzyrl ru zmc kan ickazylg zr zmc tsjjcttyrl zr zmc
Fictyvcljh yl zmc cbclz ru zmc vcazm, vytaoykyzh, ri icxrbak ru orzm zmc
Fictyvclz alv Byjc-Fictyvclz yt tsjm at zr icqsyic yxxcvyazc axclvxclz.
Zmyt tsowcjz mat icfcazcvkh occl jrltyvcicv oh Jrlgictt, osz lr ictskz mat
occl icajmcv. Zmc icjclz kaxclzaokc vcazm ru zmc Byjc-Fictyvclz, alv
bajaljyct az zmc taxc zyxc yl akk rzmci ruuyjct zmc yljsxoclzt ru nmyjm
xygmz yxxcvyazckh cecijytc zmc usljzyrlt ru zmc fictyvclzyak ruuyjc, mat
jastcv fsokyj aleyczh alv a wstz vcxalv zmaz a icjsiicljc ru tsjm a
jrlvyzyrl ru auuayit tmrskv lrz oc fcixyzzcv.

Yl jrljkstyrl Y jrxxclv zr zmc nytc jaic alv zmrsgmzusk azzclzyrl ru
Jrlgictt zmc lccvt, zmc nckuaic, alv zmc atfyiazyrlt ru al ylzckkygclz alv
gclcirst lazyrl. Zr tsorivylazc zmctc zr zmc laiirn avbalzagct ru
faizytaltmyf ri zmc ajjrxfkytmxclz ru tckuytm ayxt yt zr byrkazc zmc
fcrfkc't zistz alv ocziah zmc fcrfkc't ylzcictzt; osz al ylvybyvsak tcltc
ru ictfrltyoykyzh rl zmc faiz ru cajm ru st alv a tzcil vczcixylazyrl zr
fciurix rsi vszh nckk xstz gybc st fkajc axrlg zmrtc nmr mabc avvcv yl
zmcyi vah alv gclciazyrl zr zmc gkrih alv firtfciyzh ru rsi ockrbcv kalv.