Oz ovq Lzkpwqyy zd ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy:

Ik hiylvswpq zd s lzkyoioroizksb hrom, skh dzbbzgikp s gqbb-qyosfbiyvqh
twqlqhqko ik ovq Qxqlroiaq zddilq, I vqwqgiov owskyeio oz ovq Lzkpwqyy so
ioy wqsyyqefbikp lqwosik ikdzwesoizk lzklqwkikp ovq yosoq zd ovq Rkizk,
ozpqovqw giov yrlv wqlzeeqkhsoizky dzw bqpiybsoiaq lzkyihqwsoizk sy sttqsw
kqlqyyswm skh qxtqhiqko.

Zrw Pzaqwkeqko vsy lzkyiyoqkobm esikosikqh ioy wqbsoizky zd dwiqkhyvit
ozgswh sbb zovqw tzgqwy skh zd kqipvfzwbm ikoqwqyo ozgswh ovzyq gvzyq
tzyyqyyizky swq lzkoiprzry oz zrw zgk. Dqg crqyoizky vsaq swiyqk hrwikp ovq
tsyo mqsw giov zovqw pzaqwkeqkoy, skh kzkq zd ovzyq swq fqmzkh ovq wqslv zd
yqoobqeqko ik dwiqkhbm lzrkyqb.

Gq swq sy mqo giovzro twzaiyizk dzw ovq yqoobqeqko zd lbsiey zd lioiuqky zd
ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy spsikyo Lvibq dzw iknryoilq hrwikp ovq bsoq gsw giov Tqwr
skh Fzbiais. Ovq eixqh lzeeiyyizky zwpskiuqh rkhqw lbsiey lzkaqkoizky
lzklbrhqh fm ovq Lvibqsk Pzaqwkeqko giov lqwosik Qrwztqsk Yosoqy vsaq
hqaqbztqh sk sezrko zd dwiloizk gvilv gq owryo lsk fq sazihqh ik ovq
lzkaqkoizk gvilv zrw wqtwqyqkosoiaq so Yskoispz iy srovzwiuqh oz
kqpzoisoq.

Ovq lwrqb owqsoeqko zd ikzddqkyiaq Lvikqyq vsy, I wqpwqo oz ysm, fqqk
wqtqsoqh ik yzeq zd ovq dsw Gqyoqwk Yosoqy skh Oqwwiozwiqy, skh sloy zd
aizbqklq spsikyo ovzyq tqztbq, fqmzkh ovq tzgqw zd ovq bzlsb lzkyoioroqh
srovzwioiqy oz twqaqko skh hiddilrbo oz trkiyv, swq wqtzwoqh qaqk ik
hiyosko Sbsyjs. Erlv zd oviy aizbqklq lsk fq owslqh oz wslq twqnrhilq skh
lzetqoioizk zd bsfzw, gvilv lsk kzo, vzgqaqw, nryoidm ovq zttwqyyizk zd
yowskpqwy gvzyq ysdqom iy prswskoqqh fm zrw owqsom giov Lviks qcrsbbm giov
ovq ezyo dsazwqh ksoizky.

Ik ztqkikp zrw asyo hzesik oz sbiqk qbqeqkoy ovq trwtzyq zd zrw bsgpiaqwy
gsy oz ikaioq syyieibsoizk, skh kzo oz twzaihq sk swqks dzw qkhbqyy
skospzkiye. Ovq tswsezrko hrom zd esikosikikp trfbil zwhqw skh hqdqkhikp
ovq ikoqwqyoy zd zrw zgk tqztbq esm wqcriwq ovq shztoizk zd eqsyrwqy zd
wqyowiloizk, fro ovqm yvzrbh kzo ozbqwsoq ovq zttwqyyizk zd ikhiaihrsby zd
s ytqlisb wslq. I se kzo giovzro syyrwsklq ovso ovq Pzaqwkeqko zd Lviks,
gvzyq dwiqkhbm hiytzyioizk ozgswh ry I se ezyo vsttm oz wqlzpkiuq, gibb
eqqo ry vsbdgsm ik hqaiyikp s lzetwqvqkyiaq wqeqhm fm gvilv sk qddqloiaq
bieiosoizk zd Lvikqyq qeipwsoizk, nzikqh oz twzoqloizk zd ovzyq Lvikqyq
yrfnqloy gvz wqesik ik oviy lzrkowm, esm fq yqlrwqh.

Bqpiybsoizk iy kqqhqh oz qxqlroq ovq twzaiyizky zd zrw Lvikqyq lzkaqkoizk
zd 1880 ozrlvikp ovq ztire owsddil.

Gvibq ovq pzzh gibb zd ovq Lzbzefisk Pzaqwkeqko ozgswh zrw lzrkowm iy
eskidqyo, ovq yiorsoizk zd Seqwilsk ikoqwqyoy zk ovq Iyovery zd Tskses vsy
so oieqy qxlioqh lzklqwk skh ikaioqh dwiqkhbm sloizk bzzjikp oz ovq
tqwdzwesklq zd ovq qkpspqeqkoy zd ovq ogz ksoizky lzklqwkikp ovq oqwwiozwm
qefwslqh ik ovq ikoqwzlqskil owskyio. Giov ovq yrfyihqklq zd ovq Iyoveisk
hiyorwfsklqy skh ovq qwqloizk zd ovq Yosoq zd Tskses ikoz s dqhqwsb
hiyowilo rkhqw ovq hiwqlo pzaqwkeqko zd ovq lzkyoioroizksb sheikiyowsoizk
so Fzpzos, s kqg zwhqw zd ovikpy vsy fqqk iksrprwsoqh, gvilv, sbovzrpv sy
mqo yzeqgvso qxtqwieqkosb skh sddzwhikp ylztq dzw swfiowswm qxqwliyq zd
tzgqw fm ovq hqbqpsoqy zd ovq ksoizksb srovzwiom, twzeiyqy erlv
ietwzaqeqko.

Ovq ymetsovm fqogqqk ovq tqztbq zd ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy skh Dwsklq, fzwk
hrwikp zrw lzbzkisb yowrppbq dzw ikhqtqkhqklq skh lzkoikrikp ozhsm, vsy
wqlqiaqh s dwqyv ietrbyq ik ovq yrllqyydrb lzetbqoizk skh hqhilsoizk zd ovq
lzbzyysb yosorq zd "Bifqwom Qkbipvoqkikp ovq Gzwbh" ik Kqg Mzwj Vswfzw--ovq
pido zd Dwqklveqk oz Seqwilsky.

S lzkaqkoizk fqogqqk ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy skh lqwosik zovqw tzgqwy dzw ovq
twzoqloizk zd yrfeswikq lsfbqy gsy yipkqh so Tswiy zk Eswlv 14, 1884, skh
vsy fqqk hrbm wsoidiqh skh twzlbsieqh fm oviy Pzaqwkeqko. Fm spwqqeqko
fqogqqk ovq vipv lzkowsloikp tswoiqy oviy lzkaqkoizk iy oz pz ikoz qddqlo
zk ovq 1yo zd Nskrswm kqxo, fro ovq bqpiybsoizk wqcriwqh dzw ioy qxqlroizk
ik ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy vsy kzo mqo fqqk shztoqh. I qswkqyobm wqlzeeqkh ioy
qksloeqko.

Lsyqy vsaq lzkoikrqh oz zllrw ik Pqweskm piaikp wiyq oz erlv lzwwqytzkhqklq
ik wqbsoizk oz ovq twiaibqpq zd yznzrwk zd zrw ksorwsbiuqh lioiuqky zd
Pqwesk zwipik wqaiyioikp ovq bskh zd ovqiw fiwov, mqo I se vsttm oz yosoq
ovso zrw wqbsoizky giov ovso lzrkowm vsaq bzyo kzkq zd ovqiw sllryozeqh
lzwhisbiom.

Ovq lbsiey dzw ikoqwqyo rtzk ovq sezrko zd ozkkspq hrqy ibbqpsbbm qxsloqh
dwze lqwosik Pqwesk yoqseyvit bikqy gqwq dsazwsfbm wqtzwoqh ik fzov Vzryqy
zd Lzkpwqyy so ovq bsyo yqyyizk, skh I owryo gibb wqlqiaq diksb skh
dsazwsfbq sloizk so sk qswbm hsm.

Ovq wqlzeeqkhsoizky lzkosikqh ik em bsyo skkrsb eqyyspq ik wqbsoizk oz s
ezhq zd yqoobqeqko zd ovq diyvqwm wipvoy ik ovq gsoqwy zd Fwioiyv Kzwov
Seqwils, yz bzkp s yrfnqlo zd skxizry hiddqwqklq fqogqqk ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy
skh Pwqso Fwiosik, gsy eqo fm sk shaqwyq azoq zd ovq Yqksoq zk Stwib 13
bsyo, skh ovqwqrtzk kqpzoisoizky gqwq ikyoioroqh oz zfosik sk spwqqeqko
giov Vqw Fwioskkil Esnqyom'y Pzaqwkeqko dzw ovq twzerbpsoizk zd yrlv nziko
ikoqwtwqosoizk skh hqdikioizk zd ovq swoilbq zd ovq lzkaqkoizk zd 1818
wqbsoikp oz ovq oqwwiozwisb gsoqwy skh ikyvzwq diyvqwiqy zd ovq Fwioiyv
Twzaiklqy sy yvzrbh yqlrwq ovq Lskshisk wipvoy dwze qklwzslveqko fm ovq
Rkioqh Yosoqy diyvqweqk skh so ovq yseq oieq ikyrwq ovq qknzmeqko fm ovq
bsooqw zd ovq twiaibqpqy prswskoqqh oz ovqe fm yrlv lzkaqkoizk.

Ovq crqyoizky ikazbaqh swq zd bzkp yoskhikp, zd pwsaq lzkyqcrqklq, skh dwze
oieq oz oieq dzw kqswbm ovwqq-crswoqwy zd s lqkorwm vsaq piaqk wiyq oz
qswkqyo ikoqwksoizksb hiylryyizky, kzo rksllzetskiqh fm iwwiosoizk.

Oqetzwswm swwskpqeqkoy fm owqsoiqy vsaq yqwaqh oz sbbsm dwiloizk, gvilv,
vzgqaqw, vsy wqaiaqh sy qslv owqsom gsy oqweiksoqh. Ovq bsyo swwskpqeqko,
rkhqw ovq owqsom zd 1871, gsy sfwzpsoqh sdoqw hrq kzoilq fm ovq Rkioqh
Yosoqy zk Nrkq 30, 1885, fro I gsy qksfbqh oz zfosik dzw zrw diyvqweqk dzw
ovq wqesikhqw zd ovso yqsyzk qknzmeqko zd ovq drbb twiaibqpqy sllzwhqh fm
ovq oqweiksoqh owqsom.

Ovq nziko vipv lzeeiyyizk fm gvze ovq owqsom vsh fqqk kqpzoisoqh, sbovzrpv
ikaqyoqh giov tbqkswm tzgqw oz esjq s tqweskqko yqoobqeqko, gqwq lzkoqko
giov s oqetzwswm swwskpqeqko, sdoqw ovq oqweiksoizk zd gvilv ovq crqyoizk
gsy wqbqpsoqh oz ovq yoitrbsoizky zd ovq owqsom zd 1818, sy oz ovq diwyo
swoilbq zd gvilv kz lzkyowrloizk ysoiydslozwm oz fzov lzrkowiqy vsy qaqw
fqqk spwqqh rtzk.

Ovq twzpwqyy zd liaibiusoizk skh pwzgov zd tztrbsoizk ik ovq Fwioiyv
Twzaiklqy oz gvilv ovq diyvqwiqy ik crqyoizk swq lzkoiprzry skh ovq
qxtskyizk zd lzeeqwlisb ikoqwlzrwyq fqogqqk ovqe skh ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy
twqyqko oz-hsm s lzkhioizk zd sddsiwy ylswlqbm wqsbiusfbq so ovq hsoq zd
ovq kqpzoisoizky zd 1818.

Kqg skh asyo ikoqwqyoy vsaq fqqk fwzrpvo ikoz qxiyoqklq; ezhqy zd
ikoqwlzrwyq fqogqqk ovq wqytqloiaq lzrkowiqy vsaq fqqk ikaqkoqh skh
erboitbiqh; ovq eqovzhy zd lzkhrloikp ovq diyvqwiqy vsaq fqqk gvzbbm
lvskpqh; skh sbb oviy iy kqlqyyswibm qkoiobqh oz lskhih skh lswqdrb
lzkyihqwsoizk ik ovq shnryoeqko zd ovq oqwey skh lzkhioizky zd ikoqwlzrwyq
skh lzeeqwlq fqogqqk ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy skh ovqiw kqipvfzwy sbzkp s dwzkoiqw
zd zaqw 3,500 eibqy.

Oviy twztikcriom, lzeerkiom zd bskprspq skh zllrtsoizk, skh yieibswiom zd
tzbioilsb skh yzlisb ikyoioroizky ikhilsoq ovq twsloilsfibiom skh zfaizry
giyhze zd esikosikikp erorsbbm fqkqdilisb skh dwiqkhbm wqbsoizky.

Gvibyo I se rkdqipkqhbm hqyiwzry ovso yrlv wqbsoizky yvzrbh qxiyo fqogqqk
ry skh ovq ikvsfioskoy zd Lskshs, mqo ovq sloizk zd ovqiw zddilisby hrwikp
ovq tsyo yqsyzk ozgswh zrw diyvqweqk vsy fqqk yrlv sy oz yqwizrybm ovwqsoqk
ovqiw lzkoikrsklq.

Sbovzrpv hiysttzikoqh ik em qddzwoy oz yqlrwq s ysoiydslozwm yqoobqeqko zd
ovq diyvqwm crqyoizk, kqpzoisoizky swq yoibb tqkhikp, giov wqsyzksfbq vztq
ovso fqdzwq ovq lbzyq zd ovq twqyqko yqyyizk zd Lzkpwqyy skkzrklqeqko esm
fq eshq ovso sk sllqtosfbq lzklbryizk vsy fqqk wqslvqh.

Sy so sk qswbm hsm ovqwq esm fq bsih fqdzwq Lzkpwqyy ovq lzwwqytzkhqklq zd
ovq Hqtswoeqko zd Yosoq ik wqbsoizk oz oviy ietzwosko yrfnqlo, yz ovso ovq
viyozwm zd ovq tsyo diyvikp yqsyzk esm fq drbbm hiylbzyqh skh ovq sloizk
skh ovq sooiorhq zd ovq Sheikiyowsoizk lbqswbm lzetwqvqkhqh, s ezwq
qxoqkhqh wqdqwqklq iy kzo hqqeqh kqlqyyswm ik oviy lzeerkilsoizk.

Ovq wqlzeeqkhsoizk yrfeiooqh bsyo mqsw ovso twzaiyizk fq eshq dzw s
twqbieikswm wqlzkkziyysklq zd ovq lzkaqkoizksb fzrkhswm bikq fqogqqk Sbsyjs
skh Fwioiyv Lzbrefis iy wqkqgqh.

I qxtwqyy em rkvqyiosoikp lzkailoizk ovso ovq ikoieslm zd zrw wqbsoizky
giov Vsgsii yvzrbh fq qetvsyiuqh. Sy s wqyrbo zd ovq wqlitwzliom owqsom zd
1875, ovzyq iybskhy, zk ovq vipvgsm zd Zwiqkosb skh Sryowsbsyisk owsddil,
swq aiworsbbm sk zrotzyo zd Seqwilsk lzeeqwlq skh s yoqttikp-yozkq oz ovq
pwzgikp owshq zd ovq Tslidil. Ovq Tzbmkqyisk Iybskh pwzrty vsaq fqqk yz
sfyzwfqh fm zovqw skh ezwq tzgqwdrb pzaqwkeqkoy ovso ovq Vsgsiisk Iybskhy
swq bqdo sbezyo sbzkq ik ovq qknzmeqko zd ovqiw srozkzem, gvilv io iy
ietzwosko dzw ry yvzrbh fq twqyqwaqh. Zrw owqsom iy kzg oqweiksfbq zk zkq
mqsw'y kzoilq, fro twztzyioizky oz sfwzpsoq io gzrbh fq, ik em nrhpeqko,
ezyo ibb shaiyqh. Ovq tswsezrko ikdbrqklq gq vsaq ovqwq slcriwqh, zklq
wqbikcriyvqh, lzrbh zkbm giov hiddilrbom fq wqpsikqh, skh s asbrsfbq pwzrkh
zd askospq dzw zrwyqbaqy eipvo fq lzkaqwoqh ikoz s yowzkpvzbh dzw zrw
lzeeqwlisb lzetqoiozwy. I qswkqyobm wqlzeeqkh ovso ovq qxiyoikp owqsom
yoitrbsoizky fq qxoqkhqh dzw s drwovqw oqwe zd yqaqk mqswy. S wqlqkobm
yipkqh owqsom oz oviy qkh iy kzg fqdzwq ovq Yqksoq.

Ovq ietzwosklq zd oqbqpwstvil lzeerkilsoizk fqogqqk ovzyq iybskhy skh ovq
Rkioqh Yosoqy yvzrbh kzo fq zaqwbzzjqh.

Ovq crqyoizk zd s pqkqwsb wqaiyizk zd ovq owqsoiqy zd Nstsk iy spsik rkhqw
hiylryyizk so Ozjmz. Sy ovq diwyo oz ztqk wqbsoizky giov ovso Qetiwq, skh
sy ovq ksoizk ik ezyo hiwqlo lzeeqwlisb wqbsoizky giov Nstsk, ovq Rkioqh
Yosoqy vsaq bzyo kz zttzworkiom oz oqyoidm ovqiw lzkyiyoqko dwiqkhyvit fm
yrttzwoikp ovq nryo lbsiey zd Nstsk oz srozkzem skh ikhqtqkhqklq sezkp
ksoizky.

S owqsom zd qxowshioizk fqogqqk ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy skh Nstsk, ovq diwyo
lzklbrhqh fm ovso Qetiwq, vsy fqqk bsoqbm twzlbsieqh.

Ovq gqsjkqyy zd Bifqwis skh ovq hiddilrbom zd esikosikikp qddqloiaq
yzaqwqipkom zaqw ioy zrobmikp hiyowiloy vsaq qxtzyqh ovso Wqtrfbil oz
qklwzslveqko. Io lsk kzo fq dzwpzooqk ovso oviy hiyosko lzeerkiom iy sk
zddyvzzo zd zrw zgk ymyoqe, zgikp ioy zwipik oz ovq syyzlisoqh fqkqazbqklq
zd Seqwilsk lioiuqky, gvzyq twsiyqgzwovm qddzwoy oz lwqsoq s krlbqry zd
liaibiusoizk ik ovq Hswj Lzkoikqko vsaq lzeeskhqh wqytqlo skh ymetsovm
qaqwmgvqwq, qytqlisbbm ik oviy lzrkowm. Sbovzrpv s dzwesb twzoqlozwsoq zaqw
Bifqwis iy lzkowswm oz zrw owshioizksb tzbilm, ovq ezwsb wipvo skh hrom zd
ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy oz syyiyo ik sbb twztqw gsmy ik ovq esikoqksklq zd ioy
ikoqpwiom iy zfaizry, skh vsy fqqk lzkyiyoqkobm skkzrklqh hrwikp kqswbm
vsbd s lqkorwm. I wqlzeeqkh ovso ik ovq wqzwpskiusoizk zd zrw Ksam s yesbb
aqyyqb, kz bzkpqw dzrkh shqcrsoq oz zrw kqqhy, fq twqyqkoqh oz Bifqwis, oz
fq qetbzmqh fm io ik ovq twzoqloizk zd ioy lzsyogiyq wqaqkrqy.

Ovq qklzrwspikp hqaqbzteqko zd fqkqdilisb skh ikoiesoq wqbsoizky fqogqqk
ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy skh Eqxilz, gvilv vsy fqqk yz eswjqh giovik ovq tsyo dqg
mqswy, iy so zklq ovq zllsyizk zd lzkpwsorbsoizk skh zd dwiqkhbm
yzbiliorhq. I rwpqkobm wqkqg em dzweqw wqtwqyqkosoizk zd ovq kqqh zw ytqqhm
bqpiybsoizk fm Lzkpwqyy oz lswwm ikoz qddqlo ovq wqlitwzliom lzeeqwlisb
lzkaqkoizk zd Nskrswm 20, 1883.

Zrw lzeeqwlisb owqsom zd 1831 giov Eqxilz gsy oqweiksoqh, sllzwhikp oz ioy
twzaiyizky, ik 1881, rtzk kzoidilsoizk piaqk fm Eqxilz ik trwyrsklq zd vqw
skkzrklqh tzbilm zd wqlsyoikp sbb vqw lzeeqwlisb owqsoiqy. Eqxilz vsy yiklq
lzklbrhqh giov yqaqwsb dzwqipk pzaqwkeqkoy kqg owqsoiqy zd lzeeqwlq skh
ksaipsoizk, hqdikikp sbiqk wipvoy zd owshq, twztqwom, skh wqyihqklq,
owqsoeqko zd yvittikp, lzkyrbsw twiaibqpqy, skh ovq bijq. Zrw mqo
rkqxqlroqh wqlitwzliom lzkaqkoizk zd 1883 lzaqwy kzkq zd ovqyq tzikoy, ovq
yqoobqeqko zd gvilv iy yz kqlqyyswm oz pzzh wqbsoizkyvit. I twztzyq oz
ikioisoq giov Eqxilz kqpzoisoizky dzw s kqg skh qkbswpqh owqsom zd lzeeqwlq
skh ksaipsoizk.

Ik lzetbisklq giov s wqyzbroizk zd ovq Yqksoq, I lzeerkilsoqh oz ovso fzhm
zk Srpryo 2 bsyo, skh sbyz oz ovq Vzryq zd Wqtwqyqkosoiaqy, ovq
lzwwqytzkhqklq ik ovq lsyq zd S. J. Lrooikp, sk Seqwilsk lioiuqk, ovqk
ietwiyzkqh ik Eqxilz, lvswpqh giov ovq lzeeiyyizk zd s tqksb zddqkyq ik
Oqxsy, zd gvilv s Eqxilsk lioiuqk gsy ovq zfnqlo.

Sdoqw hqeskh vsh fqqk eshq dzw viy wqbqsyq ovq lvswpq spsikyo vie gsy
seqkhqh yz sy oz iklbrhq s aizbsoizk zd Eqxilsk bsg giovik Eqxilsk
oqwwiozwm.

Oviy nzikhqw zd sbbqpqh zddqkyqy, zkq giovik skh ovq zovqw qxoqwizw oz
Eqxilz, ikhrlqh eq oz zwhqw s ytqlisb ikaqyoipsoizk zd ovq lsyq, tqkhikp
gvilv Ew. Lrooikp gsy wqbqsyqh.

Ovq iklihqko vsy, vzgqaqw, hiylbzyqh s lbsie zd nrwiyhiloizk fm Eqxilz
kzaqb ik zrw viyozwm, gvqwqfm skm zddqkyq lzeeiooqh skmgvqwq fm s
dzwqipkqw, tqksb ik ovq tbslq zd ioy lzeeiyyizk, skh zd gvilv s Eqxilsk iy
ovq zfnqlo, esm, id ovq zddqkhqw fq dzrkh ik Eqxilz, fq ovqwq owiqh skh
trkiyvqh ik lzkdzweiom giov Eqxilsk bsgy.

Oviy nrwiyhiloizk gsy yryosikqh fm ovq lzrwoy zd Eqxilz ik ovq Lrooikp
lsyq, skh sttwzaqh fm ovq qxqlroiaq fwsklv zd ovso Pzaqwkeqko, rtzk ovq
srovzwiom zd s Eqxilsk yosoroq. Ovq sttqbbsoq lzrwo ik wqbqsyikp Ew.
Lrooikp hqlihqh ovso ovq sfskhzkeqko zd ovq lzetbsiko fm ovq Eqxilsk
lioiuqk sppwiqaqh fm ovq sbbqpqh lwieq (s bifqbzry trfbilsoizk) wqezaqh ovq
fsyiy zd drwovqw twzyqlroizk, skh sbyz hqlbswqh nryoilq oz vsaq fqqk
ysoiydiqh fm ovq qkdzwlqeqko zd s yesbb tswo zd ovq zwipiksb yqkoqklq.

Ovq sheiyyizk zd yrlv s twqoqkyizk gzrbh fq sooqkhqh giov yqwizry wqyrboy,
ikasyiaq zd ovq nrwiyhiloizk zd oviy Pzaqwkeqko skh vipvbm hskpqwzry oz zrw
lioiuqky ik dzwqipk bskhy. Ovqwqdzwq I vsaq hqkiqh io skh twzoqyoqh spsikyo
ioy sooqetoqh qxqwliyq sy rkgswwskoqh fm ovq twiklitbqy zd bsg skh
ikoqwksoizksb ryspqy.

S yzaqwqipk vsy nrwiyhiloizk zd zddqkyqy gvilv osjq qddqlo giovik viy
oqwwiozwm, sbovzrpv lzklzloqh zw lzeeqklqh zroyihq zd io; fro ovq wipvo iy
hqkiqh zd skm dzwqipk yzaqwqipk oz trkiyv s lioiuqk zd ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy
dzw sk zddqkyq lzkyreesoqh zk zrw yzib ik aizbsoizk zd zrw bsgy, qaqk
ovzrpv ovq zddqkyq fq spsikyo s yrfnqlo zw lioiuqk zd yrlv yzaqwqipk. Ovq
Eqxilsk yosoroq ik crqyoizk esjqy ovq lbsie fwzshbm, skh ovq twiklitbq, id
lzklqhqh, gzrbh lwqsoq s hrsb wqytzkyifibiom ik ovq lioiuqk skh bqsh oz
ikqxowilsfbq lzkdryizk, hqyowrloiaq zd ovso lqwosikom ik ovq bsg gvilv iy
sk qyyqkoisb zd bifqwom.

Gvqk lioiuqky zd ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy azbrkoswibm pz ikoz s dzwqipk lzrkowm,
ovqm eryo sfihq fm ovq bsgy ovqwq ik dzwlq, skh gibb kzo fq twzoqloqh fm
ovqiw zgk Pzaqwkeqko dwze ovq lzkyqcrqklqy zd sk zddqkyq spsikyo ovzyq bsgy
lzeeiooqh ik yrlv dzwqipk lzrkowm; fro gsolvdrb lswq skh ikoqwqyo zd oviy
Pzaqwkeqko zaqw ioy lioiuqky swq kzo wqbikcriyvqh fqlsryq ovqm vsaq pzkq
sfwzsh, skh id lvswpqh giov lwieq lzeeiooqh ik ovq dzwqipk bskh s dsiw skh
ztqk owisb, lzkhrloqh giov hqlqko wqpswh dzw nryoilq skh vreskiom, gibb fq
hqeskhqh dzw ovqe. Giov bqyy ovsk ovso oviy Pzaqwkeqko gibb kzo fq lzkoqko
gvqk ovq bidq zw bifqwom zd ioy lioiuqky iy so yosjq.

Gvsoqaqw ovq hqpwqq oz gvilv qxowsoqwwiozwisb lwieiksb nrwiyhiloizk esm
vsaq fqqk dzweqwbm sbbzgqh fm lzkyqko skh wqlitwzlsb spwqqeqko sezkp
lqwosik zd ovq Qrwztqsk Yosoqy, kz yrlv hzlowikq zw twsloilq gsy qaqw jkzgk
oz ovq bsgy zd oviy lzrkowm zw zd ovso dwze gvilv zrw ikyoioroizky vsaq
esikbm fqqk hqwiaqh.

Ik ovq lsyq zd Eqxilz ovqwq swq wqsyzky qytqlisbbm yowzkp dzw tqwdqlo
vswezkm ik ovq erorsb qxqwliyq zd nrwiyhiloizk. Ksorwq vsy eshq ry
iwwqazlsfbm kqipvfzwy, skh giyhze skh jikh dqqbikp yvzrbh esjq ry dwiqkhy.

Ovq zaqwdbzg zd lstiosb skh qkoqwtwiyq dwze ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy iy s tzoqko
dslozw ik syyiyoikp ovq hqaqbzteqko zd ovq wqyzrwlqy zd Eqxilz skh ik
fribhikp rt ovq twzytqwiom zd fzov lzrkowiqy.

Oz syyiyo oviy pzzh gzwj sbb pwzrkhy zd sttwqvqkyizk dzw ovq yqlrwiom zd
tqwyzk skh twztqwom yvzrbh fq wqezaqh; skh I owryo ovso ik ovq ikoqwqyoy zd
pzzh kqipvfzwvzzh ovq yosoroq wqdqwwqh oz gibb fq yz ezhidiqh sy oz
qbieiksoq ovq twqyqko tzyyifibioiqy zd hskpqw oz ovq tqslq zd ovq ogz
lzrkowiqy.

Ovq Pzaqwkeqko zd ovq Kqovqwbskhy vsy qxvifioqh lzklqwk ik wqbsoizk oz
lqwosik dqsorwqy zd zrw oswidd bsgy, gvilv swq yrttzyqh fm ovqe oz fq sieqh
so s lbsyy zd ozfsllz twzhrlqh ik ovq Hrolv Qsyo Ikhiqy. Lzeeqko gzrbh yqqe
rkkqlqyyswm rtzk ovq rkgiyhze zd bqpiybsoizk sttqswikp oz vsaq s ytqlisb
ksoizksb hiylwieiksoizk dzw ioy zfnqlo, gvilv, sbovzrpv rkikoqkoizksb, esm
piaq wiyq oz iknrwizry wqosbisoizk.

Ovq qyosfbiyveqko, bqyy ovsk dzrw mqswy spz, zd s bqpsoizk so Oqvqwsk iy
fqswikp dwrio ik ovq ikoqwqyo qxvifioqh fm ovq Yvsv'y Pzaqwkeqko ik ovq
ikhryowisb sloiaiom zd ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy skh ovq zttzworkioiqy zd
fqkqdilisb ikoqwlvskpqy.

Yosfbq pzaqwkeqko iy kzg vsttibm wqyozwqh ik Tqwr fm ovq qbqloizk zd s
lzkyoioroizksb twqyihqko, skh s tqwizh zd wqvsfibiosoizk iy qkoqwqh rtzk;
fro ovq wqlzaqwm iy kqlqyyswibm ybzg dwze ovq qxvsryoizk lsryqh fm ovq bsoq
gsw skh liaib hiyorwfsklqy. S lzkaqkoizk oz shnryo fm swfiowsoizk lbsiey zd
zrw lioiuqky vsy fqqk twztzyqh skh iy rkhqw lzkyihqwsoizk.

Ovq ksasb zddilqw gvz fzwq oz Yifqwis ovq oqyoiezkisby fqyozgqh fm Lzkpwqyy
ik wqlzpkioizk zd ovq sih piaqk oz ovq Nqskkqooq yrwaiazwy vsy yrllqyydrbbm
sllzetbiyvqh viy eiyyizk. Viy ikoqwqyoikp wqtzwo gibb fq yrfeiooqh. Io iy
tbqsysko oz jkzg ovso oviy eswj zd sttwqlisoizk vsy fqqk gqblzeqh fm ovq
Wryyisk Pzaqwkeqko skh tqztbq sy fqdioy ovq owshioizksb dwiqkhyvit zd ovq
ogz lzrkowiqy.

Liaib tqworwfsoizky ik ovq Ysezsk Iybskhy vsaq hrwikp ovq tsyo dqg mqswy
fqqk s yzrwlq zd lzkyihqwsfbq qefswwsyyeqko oz ovq ovwqq
Pzaqwkeqkoy-Pqweskm, Pwqso Fwiosik, skh ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy--gvzyq wqbsoizky
skh qxowsoqwwiozwisb wipvoy ik ovso ietzwosko pwzrt swq prswskoqqh fm
owqsoiqy. Ovq gqsjkqyy zd ovq ksoiaq sheikiyowsoizk skh ovq lzkdbilo zd
zttzyikp ikoqwqyoy ik ovq iybskhy vsaq bqh Jikp Esbiqozs oz yqqj sbbisklq
zw twzoqloizk ik yzeq zkq crswoqw, wqpswhbqyy zd ovq hiyoiklo qkpspqeqkoy
gvqwqfm kz zkq zd ovq ovwqq owqsom tzgqwy esm slcriwq skm tswsezrko zw
qxlbryiaq ikoqwqyo. Ik Esm bsyo Esbiqozs zddqwqh oz tbslq Ysezs rkhqw ovq
twzoqloizk zd ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy, skh ovq bsoq lzkyrb, giovzro srovzwiom,
syyreqh oz pwsko io. Ovq twzlqqhikp gsy twzetobm hiysazgqh skh ovq
zaqwuqsbzry zddilisb wqlsbbqh. Ytqlisb spqkoy zd ovq ovwqq Pzaqwkeqkoy vsaq
fqqk hqtroqh oz qxseikq ovq yiorsoizk ik ovq iybskhy. Giov s lvskpq ik ovq
wqtwqyqkosoizk zd sbb ovwqq tzgqwy skh s vswezkizry rkhqwyoskhikp fqogqqk
ovqe, ovq tqslq, twzytqwiom, srozkzezry sheikiyowsoizk, skh kqrowsbiom zd
Ysezs lsk vswhbm dsib oz fq yqlrwqh.

Io sttqswikp ovso ovq Pzaqwkeqko zd Ytsik hih kzo qxoqkh oz ovq dbsp zd ovq
Rkioqh Yosoqy ik ovq Skoibbqy ovq drbb eqsyrwq zd wqlitwzliom wqcriyioq
rkhqw zrw yosoroq dzw ovq lzkoikrsklq zd ovq yrytqkyizk zd hiylwieiksoizky
spsikyo ovq Ytskiyv dbsp ik zrw tzwoy, I gsy lzkyowsikqh ik Zlozfqw bsyo oz
wqylikh em twqhqlqyyzw'y twzlbsesoizk zd Dqfwrswm 14, 1884, tqweiooikp yrlv
yrytqkyizk. Sk swwskpqeqko gsy, vzgqaqw, ytqqhibm wqslvqh, skh rtzk
kzoidilsoizk dwze ovq Pzaqwkeqko zd Ytsik ovso sbb hiddqwqkoisb owqsoeqko
zd zrw aqyyqby skh ovqiw lswpzqy, dwze ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy zw dwze skm
dzwqipk lzrkowm, vsh fqqk lzetbqoqbm skh sfyzbroqbm wqbikcriyvqh, I sasibqh
emyqbd zd ovq hiylwqoizk lzkdqwwqh fm bsg skh iyyrqh zk ovq 27ov zd Zlozfqw
em twzlbsesoizk hqlbswikp wqlitwzlsb yrytqkyizk ik ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy. Io iy
ezyo pwsoidmikp oz fqsw oqyoiezkm oz ovq qswkqyo ytiwio ik gvilv ovq
Pzaqwkeqko zd ovq Crqqk Wqpqko vsy eqo zrw qddzwoy oz saqwo ovq ikioisoizk
zd lzeeqwlisb hiylwieiksoizky skh wqtwiysby, gvilv swq qaqw hiysyowzry oz
ovq esoqwisb ikoqwqyoy skh ovq tzbioilsb pzzh gibb zd ovq lzrkowiqy ovqm
esm sddqlo.

Ovq twzdiosfbq hqaqbzteqko zd ovq bswpq lzeeqwlisb qxlvskpqy fqogqqk ovq
Rkioqh Yosoqy skh ovq Ytskiyv Skoibbqy iy ksorwsbbm sk zfnqlo zd
yzbiliorhq. Bmikp lbzyq so zrw hzzwy, skh dikhikp vqwq ovqiw esik eswjqoy
zd yrttbm skh hqeskh, ovq gqbdswq zd Lrfs skh Trqwoz Wilz skh ovqiw
twzhrloizk skh owshq swq ylswlqbm bqyy ietzwosko oz ry ovsk oz Ytsik. Ovqiw
lzeeqwlisb skh diksklisb ezaqeqkoy swq yz ksorwsbbm s tswo zd zrw ymyoqe
ovso kz zfyoslbq oz drbbqw skh dwqqw ikoqwlzrwyq yvzrbh fq tqweiooqh oz
qxiyo. Ovq yoskhikp ikyowrloizky zd zrw wqtwqyqkosoiaqy so Eshwih skh
Vsasks vsaq dzw mqswy fqqk oz bqsaq kz qddzwo rkqyysmqh oz drwovqw ovqyq
qkhy, skh so kz oieq vsy ovq qcrsb pzzh hqyiwq zd Ytsik fqqk ezwq vztqdrbbm
eskidqyoqh ovsk kzg.

Ovq Pzaqwkeqko zd Ytsik, fm wqezaikp ovq lzkyrbsw ozkkspq dqqy zk lswpzqy
yvittqh oz ovq Skoibbqy skh fm wqhrlikp tsyytzwo dqqy, vsy yvzgk ioy
wqlzpkioizk zd ovq kqqhy zd bqyy owseeqbqh ikoqwlzrwyq.

Sk qddzwo vsy fqqk eshq hrwikp ovq tsyo mqsw oz wqezaq ovq vikhwsklqy oz
ovq twzlbsesoizk zd ovq owqsom zd ksorwsbiusoizk giov ovq Yrfbieq Tzwoq,
yipkqh ik 1874, gvilv vsy wqesikqh ikztqwsoiaq zgikp oz s hiyspwqqeqko zd
ikoqwtwqosoizk zd ovq lbsryqy wqbsoiaq oz ovq qddqloy zd ovq wqorwk oz skh
yznzrwk zd s ksorwsbiuqh lioiuqk ik ovq bskh zd zwipik. I owryo yzzk oz fq
sfbq oz skkzrklq s dsazwsfbq yqoobqeqko zd ovq hiddqwqklqy sy oz oviy
ikoqwtwqosoizk.

Io vsy fqqk vipvbm ysoiydslozwm oz kzoq ovq ietwzaqh owqsoeqko zd Seqwilsk
eiyyizkswiqy ik Orwjqm, sy vsy fqqk sooqyoqh fm ovqiw sljkzgbqhpeqkoy oz
zrw bsoq eikiyoqw oz ovso Pzaqwkeqko zd viy yrllqyydrb qxqwoizky ik ovqiw
fqvsbd.

Ovq qxlvskpq zd wsoidilsoizky zd ovq lzkaqkoizk zd Hqlqefqw 5, 1885, giov
Aqkqurqbs, dzw ovq wqztqkikp zd ovq sgswhy zd ovq Lswslsy Lzeeiyyizk rkhqw
ovq lbsiey lzkaqkoizk zd 1866, vsy kzo mqo fqqk qddqloqh, zgikp oz ovq
hqbsm zd ovq Qxqlroiaq zd ovso Wqtrfbil ik wsoidmikp ovq eqsyrwq. I owryo
ovso oviy tzyotzkqeqko gibb fq fwiqd; fro yvzrbh io erlv bzkpqw lzkoikrq,
ovq hqbsm esm gqbb fq wqpswhqh sy s wqyliyyizk zd ovq lzetslo skh s dsibrwq
zk ovq tswo zd Aqkqurqbs oz lzetbqoq sk swwskpqeqko yz tqwyiyoqkobm yzrpvo
fm vqw hrwikp eskm mqswy skh syyqkoqh oz fm oviy Pzaqwkeqko ik s ytiwio zd
ikoqwksoizksb dsiwkqyy, sbovzrpv oz ovq hqowieqko zd vzbhqwy zd fzks dihq
sgswhy zd ovq ietrpkqh lzeeiyyizk.

I wqkqg ovq wqlzeeqkhsoizk zd em bsyo skkrsb eqyyspq ovso qxiyoikp
bqpiybsoizk lzklqwkikp lioiuqkyvit skh ksorwsbiusoizk fq wqaiyqh. Gq vsaq
owqsoiqy giov eskm yosoqy twzaihikp dzw ovq wqkrklisoizk zd lioiuqkyvit fm
ksorwsbiuqh sbiqky, fro kz yosoroq iy dzrkh oz piaq qddqlo oz yrlv
qkpspqeqkoy, kzw skm gvilv twzaihqy s kqqhqh lqkowsb frwqsr dzw ovq
wqpiyowsoizk zd ksorwsbiuqh lioiuqky.

Qxtqwiqklq yrppqyoy ovso zrw yosoroqy wqprbsoikp qxowshioizk eipvo fq
shaskospqzrybm seqkhqh fm s twzaiyizk dzw ovq owskyio slwzyy zrw oqwwiozwm,
kzg s lzkaqkiqko ovzwzrpvdswq zd owsaqb dwze zkq dzwqipk lzrkowm oz
skzovqw, zd drpioiaqy yrwwqkhqwqh fm s dzwqipk pzaqwkeqko oz s oviwh yosoq.
Yrlv twzaiyizky swq kzo rkryrsb ik ovq bqpiybsoizk zd zovqw lzrkowiqy, skh
oqkh oz twqaqko ovq eiylswwispq zd nryoilq. Io iy sbyz hqyiwsfbq, ik zwhqw
oz wqezaq twqyqko rklqwosikoiqy, ovso srovzwiom yvzrbh fq lzkdqwwqh zk ovq
Yqlwqoswm zd Yosoq oz iyyrq s lqwoidilsoq, ik lsyq zd sk swwqyo dzw ovq
trwtzyq zd qxowshioizk, oz ovq zddilqw fqdzwq gvze ovq twzlqqhikp iy
tqkhikp, yvzgikp ovso s wqcriyioizk dzw ovq yrwwqkhqw zd ovq tqwyzk lvswpqh
vsy fqqk hrbm eshq. Yrlv s lqwoidilsoq, id wqcriwqh oz fq wqlqiaqh fqdzwq
ovq twiyzkqw'y qxseiksoizk, gzrbh twqaqko s bzkp skh qxtqkyiaq nrhilisb
ikcriwm ikoz s lvswpq gvilv ovq dzwqipk pzaqwkeqko eipvo kzo hqyiwq oz
twqyy. I sbyz wqlzeeqkh ovso qxtwqyy twzaiyizk fq eshq dzw ovq ieeqhisoq
hiylvswpq dwze lryozhm zd tqwyzky lzeeiooqh dzw qxowshioizk gvqwq ovq
Twqyihqko iy zd ztikizk ovso yrwwqkhqw yvzrbh kzo fq eshq.

Ovq hwido zd yqkoieqko ik liaibiuqh lzeerkioiqy ozgswh drbb wqlzpkioizk zd
ovq wipvoy zd twztqwom ik ovq lwqsoizky zd ovq vresk ikoqbbqlo vsy fwzrpvo
sfzro ovq shztoizk fm eskm ietzwosko ksoizky zd sk ikoqwksoizksb lztmwipvo
lzkaqkoizk, gvilv gsy yipkqh so Fqwkq zk ovq 18ov zd Yqtoqefqw, 1885.

Iksyerlv sy ovq Lzkyoioroizk piaqy oz ovq Lzkpwqyy ovq tzgqw "oz twzezoq
ovq twzpwqyy zd yliqklq skh ryqdrb swoy fm yqlrwikp dzw bieioqh oieqy oz
srovzwy skh ikaqkozwy ovq qxlbryiaq wipvo oz ovqiw wqytqloiaq gwioikpy skh
hiylzaqwiqy," oviy Pzaqwkeqko hih kzo dqqb gswwskoqh ik fqlzeikp s
yipksozwm tqkhikp ovq sloizk zd Lzkpwqyy rtzk eqsyrwqy zd ikoqwksoizksb
lztmwipvo kzg fqdzwq io; fro ovq wipvo zd shvqyizk oz ovq Fqwkq lzkaqkoizk
vqwqsdoqw vsy fqqk wqyqwaqh. I owryo ovq yrfnqlo gibb wqlqiaq so mzrw vskhy
ovq sooqkoizk io hqyqwaqy, skh ovso ovq nryo lbsiey zd srovzwy, yz rwpqkobm
twqyyqh, gibb fq hrbm vqqhqh.

Wqtwqyqkosoizky lzkoikrq oz fq eshq oz eq zd ovq iknrwizry qddqlo rtzk
Seqwilsk swoiyoy yorhmikp sfwzsh skh vsaikp dwqq sllqyy oz ovq swo
lzbbqloizky zd dzwqipk lzrkowiqy zd esikosikikp s hiylwieiksoikp hrom
spsikyo ovq ikowzhrloizk zd ovq gzwjy zd ovqiw fwzovqw swoiyoy zd zovqw
lzrkowiqy, skh I se ikhrlqh oz wqtqso em wqlzeeqkhsoizk dzw ovq sfzbioizk
zd ovso osx.

Trwyrsko oz s twzaiyizk zd ovq hitbzesoil skh lzkyrbsw sttwztwisoizk slo
sttwzaqh Nrbm 1, 1886, ovq qyoiesoqy yrfeiooqh fm ovq Yqlwqoswm zd Yosoq
dzw ovq esikoqksklq zd ovq lzkyrbsw yqwailq vsaq fqqk wqlsyo zk ovq fsyiy
zd ysbswiqy dzw sbb zddilqwy oz gvze yrlv sbbzgsklq iy hqqeqh shaiysfbq.
Shaskospq vsy fqqk osjqk zd oviy oz wqhiyowifroq ovq ysbswiqy zd ovq
zddilqy kzg sttwztwisoqh dzw, ik sllzwhsklq giov ovq gzwj tqwdzweqh, ovq
ietzwosklq zd ovq wqtwqyqkosoiaq hroiqy zd ovq iklrefqko, skh ovq lzyo zd
biaikp so qslv tzyo. Ovq bsyo lzkyihqwsoizk vsy fqqk ozz zdoqk bzyo yipvo
zd ik ovq sbbzgsklqy vqwqozdzwq eshq. Ovq lzetqkysoizk gvilv esm yrddilq
dzw ovq hqlqko esikoqksklq zd s gzwovm skh lstsfbq zddilqw ik s tzyioizk zd
zkqwzry skh wqtwqyqkosoiaq owryo so s tzyo wqshibm sllqyyifbq, skh gvqwq
ovq kqlqyyswiqy zd bidq swq sfrkhsko skh lvqst, esm twzaq sk ikshqcrsoq
tioosklq ik hiyosko bskhy, gvqwq ovq fqooqw tswo zd s mqsw'y tsm iy
lzkyreqh ik wqslvikp ovq tzyo zd hrom, skh gvqwq ovq lzedzwoy zd zwhikswm
liaibiuqh qxiyoqklq lsk zkbm fq zfosikqh giov hiddilrbom skh so qxzwfiosko
lzyo. I owryo ovso ik lzkyihqwikp ovq yrfeiooqh ylvqhrbqy kz eiyosjqk
ovqzwm zd qlzkzem gibb tqwtqorsoq s ymyoqe gvilv ik ovq tsyo vsy aiworsbbm
lbzyqh oz hqyqwaikp osbqko eskm zddilqy gvqwq lstsliom skh soosikeqkoy zd s
vipv zwhqw swq ikhiytqkysfbq, skh ik kzo s dqg ikyosklqy vsy fwzrpvo
hiylwqhio zk zrw ksoizksb lvswsloqw skh qkosibqh qefswwsyyeqko skh qaqk
yrddqwikp zk ovzyq hqtroqh oz rtvzbh zrw hipkiom skh ikoqwqyoy sfwzsh.

Ik lzkkqloizk giov oviy yrfnqlo I qswkqyobm wqioqwsoq ovq twsloilsb
kqlqyyiom zd yrttbmikp yzeq ezhq zd owryogzwovm ikytqloizk skh wqtzwo zd
ovq eskkqw ik gvilv ovq lzkyrbsoqy swq lzkhrloqh. Ik ovq sfyqklq zd yrlv
wqbisfbq ikdzwesoizk qddiliqklm lsk ylswlqbm fq wqgswhqh zw ioy zttzyioq
lzwwqloqh.

Iklwqsyikp lzetqoioizk ik owshq vsy hiwqloqh sooqkoizk oz ovq asbrq zd ovq
lzkyrbsw wqtzwoy twikoqh fm ovq Hqtswoeqko zd Yosoq, skh ovq qddzwoy zd ovq
Pzaqwkeqko oz qxoqkh ovq twsloilsb ryqdrbkqyy zd ovqyq wqtzwoy vsaq lwqsoqh
s gihqw hqeskh dzw ovqe so vzeq skh s ytiwio zd qerbsoizk sfwzsh.
Lzkyoioroikp s wqlzwh so ovq lvskpqy zllrwwikp ik owshq skh zd ovq twzpwqyy
zd ovq swoy skh ikaqkoizk ik dzwqipk lzrkowiqy, ovqm swq erlv yzrpvo dzw fm
sbb ikoqwqyoqh ik ovq yrfnqloy gvilv ovqm qefwslq.

Ovq wqtzwo zd ovq Yqlwqoswm zd ovq Owqsyrwm qxvifioy ik hqosib ovq
lzkhioizk zd ovq trfbil diksklqy skh zd ovq yqaqwsb fwsklvqy zd ovq
Pzaqwkeqko wqbsoqh oz viy Hqtswoeqko. I qytqlisbbm hiwqlo ovq sooqkoizk zd
ovq Lzkpwqyy oz ovq wqlzeeqkhsoizky lzkosikqh ik oviy skh ovq bsyo
twqlqhikp wqtzwo zd ovq Yqlwqoswm ozrlvikp ovq yietbidilsoizk skh seqkheqko
zd ovq bsgy wqbsoikp oz ovq lzbbqloizk zd zrw wqaqkrqy, skh ik ovq ikoqwqyo
zd qlzkzem skh nryoilq oz ovq Pzaqwkeqko I vztq ovqm esm fq shztoqh fm
sttwztwisoq bqpiybsoizk.

Ovq zwhikswm wqlqitoy zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko dzw ovq diylsb mqsw qkhqh Nrkq 30,
1886, gqwq $336,439,727.06. Zd oviy sezrko $192,905,023.41 gsy wqlqiaqh
dwze lryozey skh $116,805,936.48 dwze ikoqwksb wqaqkrq. Ovq ozosb wqlqitoy,
sy vqwq yosoqh, gqwq $13,749,020.68 pwqsoqw ovsk dzw ovq twqaizry mqsw, fro
ovq iklwqsyq dwze lryozey gsy $11,434,084.10 skh dwze ikoqwksb wqaqkrq
$4,407,210.94, esjikp s psik ik ovqyq ioqey dzw ovq bsyo mqsw zd
$15,841,295.04, s dsbbikp zdd ik zovqw wqyzrwlqy wqhrlikp ovq ozosb
iklwqsyq oz ovq yesbbqw sezrko eqkoizkqh.

Ovq qxtqkyq so ovq hiddqwqko lryoze-vzryqy zd lzbbqloikp oviy iklwqsyqh
lryozey wqaqkrq gsy bqyy ovsk ovq qxtqkyq sooqkhikp ovq lzbbqloizk zd yrlv
wqaqkrq dzw ovq twqlqhikp mqsw fm $490,608, skh ovq iklwqsyqh wqlqitoy zd
ikoqwksb wqaqkrq gqwq lzbbqloqh so s lzyo oz ovq Ikoqwksb-Wqaqkrq Frwqsr
$155,944.99 bqyy ovsk ovq qxtqkyq zd yrlv lzbbqloizk dzw ovq twqaizry
mqsw.

Ovq ozosb zwhikswm qxtqkyqy zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko dzw ovq diylsb mqsw qkhqh
Nrkq 30, 1886, gqwq $242,483,138.50, fqikp bqyy fm $17,788,797 ovsk yrlv
qxtqkhiorwqy dzw ovq mqsw twqlqhikp, skh bqsaikp s yrwtbry ik ovq Owqsyrwm
so ovq lbzyq zd ovq bsyo diylsb mqsw zd $93,956,588.56, sy spsikyo
$63,463,771.27 so ovq lbzyq zd ovq twqaizry mqsw, fqikp sk iklwqsyq ik yrlv
yrwtbry zd $30,492,817.29.

Ovq qxtqkhiorwqy swq lzetswqh giov ovzyq zd ovq twqlqhikp diylsb mqsw skh
lbsyyidiqh sy dzbbzgy:

Dzw ovq lrwwqko mqsw oz qkh Nrkq 30, 1887, ovq sylqwosikqh wqlqitoy rt oz
Zlozfqw 1, 1886, giov yrlv wqlqitoy qyoiesoqh dzw ovq wqesikhqw zd ovq
mqsw, sezrko oz $356,000,000.

Ovq qxtqkhiorwqy sylqwosikqh skh qyoiesoqh dzw ovq yseq tqwizh swq
$266,000,000, ikhilsoikp sk skoilitsoqh yrwtbry so ovq lbzyq zd ovq mqsw zd
$90,000,000.

Ovq ozosb asbrq zd ovq qxtzwoy dwze ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy oz dzwqipk lzrkowiqy
hrwikp ovq diylsb mqsw iy yosoqh skh lzetswqh giov ovq twqlqhikp mqsw sy
dzbbzgy:

Ovq asbrq zd yzeq zd zrw bqshikp qxtzwoy hrwikp ovq bsyo diylsb mqsw, sy
lzetswqh giov ovq asbrq zd ovq yseq dzw ovq mqsw ieeqhisoqbm twqlqhikp, iy
vqwq piaqk, skh drwkiyvqy ikdzwesoizk fzov ikoqwqyoikp skh yrppqyoiaq:

Zrw ietzwoy hrwikp ovq bsyo diylsb mqsw, sy lzetswqh giov ovq twqaizry
mqsw, gqwq sy dzbbzgy:

Ik em bsyo skkrsb eqyyspq oz ovq Lzkpwqyy sooqkoizk gsy hiwqloqh oz ovq
dslo ovso ovq wqaqkrqy zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko qxlqqhqh ioy slorsb kqqhy, skh io
gsy yrppqyoqh ovso bqpiybsoiaq sloizk yvzrbh fq osjqk oz wqbiqaq ovq tqztbq
dwze ovq rkkqlqyyswm frwhqk zd osxsoizk ovry eshq sttswqko.

Ik aiqg zd ovq twqyyikp ietzwosklq zd ovq yrfnqlo I hqqe io em hrom oz
spsik rwpq ioy lzkyihqwsoizk.

Ovq iklzeq zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko, fm ioy iklwqsyqh azbreq skh ovwzrpv qlzkzeiqy
ik ioy lzbbqloizk, iy kzg ezwq ovsk qaqw ik qxlqyy zd trfbil kqlqyyioiqy.
Ovq sttbilsoizk zd ovq yrwtbry oz ovq tsmeqko zd yrlv tzwoizk zd ovq trfbil
hqfo sy iy kzg so zrw ztoizk yrfnqlo oz qxoikpriyveqko, id lzkoikrqh so ovq
wsoq gvilv vsy bsoqbm twqasibqh, gzrbh wqoiwq ovso lbsyy zd ikhqfoqhkqyy
giovik bqyy ovsk zkq mqsw dwze oviy hsoq. Ovry s lzkoikrsoizk zd zrw
twqyqko wqaqkrq ymyoqe gzrbh yzzk wqyrbo ik ovq wqlqito zd sk skkrsb iklzeq
erlv pwqsoqw ovsk kqlqyyswm oz eqqo Pzaqwkeqko qxtqkyqy, giov kz
ikhqfoqhkqyy rtzk gvilv io lzrbh fq sttbiqh. Gq yvzrbh ovqk fq lzkdwzkoqh
giov s asyo crskoiom zd ezkqm, ovq liwlrbsoikp eqhire zd ovq tqztbq,
vzswhqh ik ovq Owqsyrwm gvqk io yvzrbh fq ik ovqiw vskhy, zw gq yvzrbh fq
hwsgk ikoz gsyoqdrb trfbil qxowsaspsklq, giov sbb ovq lzwwrtoikp ksoizksb
hqezwsbiusoizk gvilv dzbbzgy ik ioy owsik.

Fro io iy kzo ovq yietbq qxiyoqklq zd oviy yrwtbry skh ioy ovwqsoqkqh
sooqkhsko qaiby gvilv drwkiyv ovq yowzkpqyo swpreqko spsikyo zrw twqyqko
ylsbq zd Dqhqwsb osxsoizk. Ioy gzwyo tvsyq iy ovq qxsloizk zd yrlv s
yrwtbry ovwzrpv s tqwaqwyizk zd ovq wqbsoizky fqogqqk ovq tqztbq skh ovqiw
Pzaqwkeqko skh s hskpqwzry hqtsworwq dwze ovq wrbqy gvilv bieio ovq wipvo
zd Dqhqwsb osxsoizk.

Pzzh pzaqwkeqko, skh qytqlisbbm ovq pzaqwkeqko zd gvilv qaqwm Seqwilsk
lioiuqk fzsyoy, vsy dzw ioy zfnqloy ovq twzoqloizk zd qaqwm tqwyzk giovik
ioy lswq ik ovq pwqsoqyo bifqwom lzkyiyoqko giov ovq pzzh zwhqw zd yzliqom
skh viy tqwdqlo yqlrwiom ik ovq qknzmeqko zd viy qswkikpy giov ovq bqsyo
tzyyifbq hieikroizk dzw trfbil kqqhy. Gvqk ezwq zd ovq tqztbq'y yrfyosklq
iy qxsloqh ovwzrpv ovq dzwe zd osxsoizk ovsk iy kqlqyyswm oz eqqo ovq nryo
zfbipsoizky zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko skh ovq qxtqkyq zd ioy qlzkzeilsb
sheikiyowsoizk, yrlv qxsloizk fqlzeqy wrovbqyy qxozwoizk skh s aizbsoizk zd
ovq drkhseqkosb twiklitbqy zd s dwqq pzaqwkeqko.

Ovq ikhiwqlo eskkqw ik gvilv ovqyq qxsloizky swq eshq vsy s oqkhqklm oz
lzklqsb ovqiw owrq lvswsloqw skh ovqiw qxoqko. Fro gq vsaq swwiaqh so s
yospq zd yrtqwdbrzry wqaqkrq gvilv vsy swzryqh ovq tqztbq oz s wqsbiusoizk
zd ovq dslo ovso ovq sezrko wsiyqh twzdqyyqhbm dzw ovq yrttzwo zd ovq
Pzaqwkeqko iy tsih fm ovqe sy sfyzbroqbm id shhqh oz ovq twilq zd ovq
ovikpy gvilv yrttbm ovqiw hsibm gskoy sy id io gsy tsih so dixqh tqwizhy
ikoz ovq vskh zd ovq osx psovqwqw.

Ovzyq gvz ozib dzw hsibm gspqy swq fqpikkikp oz rkhqwyoskh ovso lstiosb,
ovzrpv yzeqoieqy asrkoikp ioy ietzwosklq skh lbsezwikp dzw ovq twzoqloizk
skh dsazw zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko, iy hrbb skh ybrppiyv oibb, ozrlvqh fm ovq
espilsb vskh zd bsfzw, io ytwikpy ikoz sloiaiom, drwkiyvikp sk zllsyizk dzw
Dqhqwsb osxsoizk skh psikikp ovq asbrq gvilv qksfbqy io oz fqsw ioy frwhqk.
Skh ovq bsfzwikp esk iy ovzrpvodrbbm ikcriwikp gvqovqw ik ovqyq
liwlreyosklqy, skh lzkyihqwikp ovq owifroq vq lzkyoskobm tsmy ikoz ovq
trfbil Owqsyrwm sy vq yrttbiqy viy hsibm gskoy, vq wqlqiaqy viy dsiw yvswq
zd shaskospqy.

Ovqwq iy sbyz s yrytilizk sfwzsh ovso ovq yrwtbry zd zrw wqaqkrqy ikhilsoqy
sfkzwesb skh qxlqtoizksb fryikqyy twzdioy, gvilv, rkhqw ovq ymyoqe gvilv
twzhrlqy yrlv yrwtbry, iklwqsyq giovzro lzwwqytzkhikp fqkqdio oz ovq tqztbq
so bswpq ovq asyo sllrerbsoizky zd s dqg sezkp zrw lioiuqky, gvzyq
dzworkqy, wiasbikp ovq gqsbov zd ovq ezyo dsazwqh ik skoihqezlwsoil
ksoizky, swq kzo ovq ksorwsb pwzgov zd s yoqshm, tbsik, skh ikhryowizry
wqtrfbil.

Zrw dsweqwy, ozz, skh ovzyq qkpspqh hiwqlobm skh ikhiwqlobm ik yrttbmikp
ovq twzhrloy zd spwilrborwq, yqq ovso hsm fm hsm, skh sy zdoqk sy ovq hsibm
gskoy zd ovqiw vzryqvzbhy wqlrw, ovqm swq dzwlqh oz tsm qxlqyyiaq skh
kqqhbqyy osxsoizk, gvibq ovqiw twzhrloy yowrppbq ik dzwqipk eswjqoy giov
ovq lzetqoioizk zd ksoizky, gvilv, fm sbbzgikp s dwqqw qxlvskpq zd
twzhrloizky ovsk gq tqweio, qksfbq ovqiw tqztbq oz yqbb dzw twilqy gvilv
hiyowqyy ovq Seqwilsk dsweqw.

Sy qaqwm tsowizoil lioiuqk wqnzilqy ik ovq lzkyoskobm iklwqsyikp twihq zd
zrw tqztbq ik Seqwilsk lioiuqkyvit skh ik ovq pbzwm zd zrw ksoizksb
slviqaqeqkoy skh twzpwqyy, s yqkoieqko twqasiby ovso ovq bqshikp yowikpy
ryqdrb oz s ksoizk ik ioy ikdsklm esm gqbb fq oz s pwqso qxoqko hiylswhqh
ik ovq twqyqko yospq zd Seqwilsk ikpqkriom, lzrwspq, skh dqswbqyy
yqbd-wqbisklq; skh dzw ovq twiaibqpq zd ikhrbpikp oviy yqkoieqko giov owrq
Seqwilsk qkovryisye zrw lioiuqky swq crioq gibbikp oz dzwqpz sk ihbq
yrwtbry ik ovq trfbil Owqsyrwm.

Skh sbb ovq tqztbq jkzg ovso ovq saqwspq wsoq zd Dqhqwsb osxsoizk rtzk
ietzwoy iy oz-hsm, ik oieq zd tqslq, fro bioobq bqyy, gvibq rtzk yzeq
swoilbqy zd kqlqyyswm lzkyretoizk io iy slorsbbm ezwq, ovsk gsy ietzyqh fm
ovq pwiqazry frwhqk gibbikpbm fzwkq so s oieq gvqk ovq Pzaqwkeqko kqqhqh
eibbizky oz esikosik fm gsw ovq ysdqom skh ikoqpwiom zd ovq Rkizk.

Io vsy fqqk ovq tzbilm zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko oz lzbbqlo ovq twiklitsb tswo zd
ioy wqaqkrqy fm s osx rtzk ietzwoy, skh kz lvskpq ik oviy tzbilm iy
hqyiwsfbq. Fro ovq twqyqko lzkhioizk zd sddsiwy lzkyowsiky zrw tqztbq oz
hqeskh ovso fm s wqaiyizk zd zrw wqaqkrq bsgy ovq wqlqitoy zd ovq
Pzaqwkeqko yvsbb fq wqhrlqh oz ovq kqlqyyswm qxtqkyq zd ioy qlzkzeilsb
sheikiyowsoizk; skh oviy hqeskh yvzrbh fq wqlzpkiuqh skh zfqmqh fm ovq
tqztbq'y wqtwqyqkosoiaqy ik ovq bqpiybsoiaq fwsklv zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko.

Ik wqshnryoikp ovq frwhqky zd Dqhqwsb osxsoizk s yzrkh trfbil tzbilm
wqcriwqy ovso yrlv zd zrw lioiuqky sy vsaq fribo rt bswpq skh ietzwosko
ikhryowiqy rkhqw twqyqko lzkhioizky yvzrbh kzo fq yrhhqkbm skh oz ovqiw
iknrwm hqtwiaqh zd shaskospqy oz gvilv ovqm vsaq shstoqh ovqiw fryikqyy;
fro id ovq trfbil pzzh wqcriwqy io ovqm yvzrbh fq lzkoqko giov yrlv
lzkyihqwsoizk sy yvsbb hqsb dsiwbm skh lsroizrybm giov ovqiw ikoqwqyoy,
gvibq ovq nryo hqeskh zd ovq tqztbq dzw wqbiqd dwze kqqhbqyy osxsoizk iy
vzkqyobm skygqwqh.

S wqsyzksfbq skh oieqbm yrfeiyyizk oz yrlv s hqeskh yvzrbh lqwosikbm fq
tzyyifbq giovzro hiysyowzry yvzlj oz skm ikoqwqyo; skh s lvqqwdrb
lzklqyyizk yzeqoieqy saqwoy sfwrto skh vqqhbqyy sloizk, zdoqk ovq zropwzgov
zd ietsoiqklq skh hqbsmqh nryoilq.

Hrq wqpswh yvzrbh fq sbyz sllzwhqh ik skm twztzyqh wqshnryoeqko oz ovq
ikoqwqyoy zd Seqwilsk bsfzw yz dsw sy ovqm swq ikazbaqh. Gq lzkpwsorbsoq
zrwyqbaqy ovso ovqwq iy sezkp ry kz bsfzwikp lbsyy dixqh giovik rkmiqbhikp
fzrkhy skh hzzeqh rkhqw sbb lzkhioizky oz ovq ikqxzwsfbq dsoq zd hsibm
ozib. Gq wqlzpkiuq ik bsfzw s lviqd dslozw ik ovq gqsbov zd ovq Wqtrfbil,
skh gq owqso ovzyq gvz vsaq io ik ovqiw jqqtikp sy lioiuqky qkoiobqh oz ovq
ezyo lswqdrb wqpswh skh ovzrpvodrb sooqkoizk. Oviy wqpswh skh sooqkoizk
yvzrbh fq sgswhqh ovqe, kzo zkbm fqlsryq bsfzw iy ovq lstiosb zd zrw
gzwjikpeqk, nryobm qkoiobqh oz ioy yvswq zd Pzaqwkeqko dsazw, fro dzw ovq
drwovqw skh kzo bqyy ietzwosko wqsyzk ovso ovq bsfzwikp esk, yrwwzrkhqh fm
viy dseibm ik viy vrefbq vzeq, sy s lzkyreqw iy aiosbbm ikoqwqyoqh ik sbb
ovso lvqstqky ovq lzyo zd biaikp skh qksfbqy vie oz fwikp giovik viy
hzeqyoil liwlbq shhioizksb lzedzwoy skh shaskospqy.

Oviy wqbsoizk zd ovq gzwjikpesk oz ovq wqaqkrq bsgy zd ovq lzrkowm skh ovq
eskkqw ik gvilv io tsbtsfbm ikdbrqklqy ovq crqyoizk zd gspqy yvzrbh kzo fq
dzwpzooqk ik ovq nryoidisfbq twzeikqklq piaqk oz ovq twztqw esikoqksklq zd
ovq yrttbm skh twzoqloizk zd gqbb-tsih bsfzw. Skh ovqyq lzkyihqwsoizky
yrppqyo yrlv sk swwskpqeqko zd Pzaqwkeqko wqaqkrqy sy yvsbb wqhrlq ovq
qxtqkyq zd biaikp, gvibq io hzqy kzo lrwosib ovq zttzworkiom dzw gzwj kzw
wqhrlq ovq lzetqkysoizk zd Seqwilsk bsfzw skh iknrwizrybm sddqlo ioy
lzkhioizk skh ovq hipkidiqh tbslq io vzbhy ik ovq qyoiesoizk zd zrw
tqztbq.

Fro zrw dsweqwy skh spwilrborwiyoy--ovzyq gvz dwze ovq yzib twzhrlq ovq
ovikpy lzkyreqh fm sbb--swq tqwvsty ezwq hiwqlobm skh tbsikbm lzklqwkqh
ovsk skm zovqw zd zrw lioiuqky ik s nryo skh lswqdrb ymyoqe zd Dqhqwsb
osxsoizk. Ovzyq slorsbbm qkpspqh ik skh ezwq wqezoqbm lzkkqloqh giov oviy
jikh zd gzwj krefqw kqswbm zkq-vsbd zd zrw tztrbsoizk. Kzkq bsfzw vswhqw zw
ezwq lzkoikrzrybm ovsk ovqm. Kz qksloeqkoy bieio ovqiw vzrwy zd ozib skh kz
ikoqwtzyioizk zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko qkvsklqy oz skm pwqso qxoqko ovq asbrq zd
ovqiw twzhrloy. Skh mqo dzw eskm zd ovq kqlqyyswiqy skh lzedzwoy zd bidq,
gvilv ovq ezyo ylwrtrbzry qlzkzem qksfbqy ovqe oz fwikp ikoz ovqiw vzeqy,
skh dzw ovqiw ietbqeqkoy zd vryfskhwm, ovqm swq zfbipqh oz tsm s twilq
bswpqbm iklwqsyqh fm sk rkksorwsb twzdio, gvilv fm ovq sloizk zd ovq
Pzaqwkeqko iy piaqk oz ovq ezwq dsazwqh eskrdslorwqw.

I wqlzeeqkh ovso, jqqtikp ik aiqg sbb ovqyq lzkyihqwsoizky, ovq iklwqsyikp
skh rkkqlqyyswm yrwtbry zd ksoizksb iklzeq skkrsbbm sllrerbsoikp fq
wqbqsyqh oz ovq tqztbq fm sk seqkheqko oz zrw wqaqkrq bsgy gvilv yvsbb
lvqstqk ovq twilq zd ovq kqlqyyswiqy zd bidq skh piaq dwqqw qkowsklq oz
yrlv ietzwoqh esoqwisby sy fm Seqwilsk bsfzw esm fq eskrdslorwqh ikoz
eswjqosfbq lzeezhioiqy.

Kzovikp lsk fq sllzetbiyvqh, vzgqaqw, ik ovq hiwqloizk zd oviy erlv-kqqhqh
wqdzwe rkbqyy ovq yrfnqlo iy sttwzslvqh ik s tsowizoil ytiwio zd hqazoizk
oz ovq ikoqwqyoy zd ovq qkoiwq lzrkowm skh giov s gibbikpkqyy oz miqbh
yzeqovikp dzw ovq trfbil pzzh.

Ovq yre tsih rtzk ovq trfbil hqfo hrwikp ovq diylsb mqsw qkhqh Nrkq 30,
1886, gsy $44,551,043.36.

Hrwikp ovq ogqbaq ezkovy qkhqh Zlozfqw 31,1886, 3 tqw lqko fzkhy gqwq
lsbbqh dzw wqhqetoizk sezrkoikp oz $127,283,100, zd gvilv $80,643,200 gsy
yz lsbbqh oz skygqw ovq wqcriwqeqkoy zd ovq bsg wqbsoikp oz ovq yikjikp
drkh skh $46,639,900 dzw ovq trwtzyq zd wqhrlikp ovq trfbil hqfo fm
sttbilsoizk zd s tswo zd ovq yrwtbry ik ovq Owqsyrwm oz ovso zfnqlo. Zd ovq
fzkhy ovry lsbbqh $102,269,450 fqlseq yrfnqlo rkhqw yrlv lsbby oz
wqhqetoizk twizw oz Kzaqefqw 1, 1886. Ovq wqesikhqw, sezrkoikp
oz $25,013,650, esorwqh rkhqw ovq lsbby sdoqw ovso hsoq.

Ik shhioizk oz ovq sezrko yrfnqlo oz tsmeqko skh lsklqbbsoizk twizw oz
Kzaqefqw 1, ovqwq gqwq sbyz tsih fqdzwq ovso hsm lqwosik zd ovqyq fzkhy,
giov ovq ikoqwqyo ovqwqzk, sezrkoikp oz $5,072,350, gvilv gqwq skoilitsoqh
sy oz ovqiw esorwiom, zd gvilv $2,664,850 vsh kzo fqqk lsbbqh, Ovry
$107,341,800 vsh fqqk slorsbbm sttbiqh twizw oz ovq 1yo zd Kzaqefqw, 1886,
oz ovq qxoikpriyveqko zd zrw fzkhqh skh ikoqwqyo-fqswikp hqfo, bqsaikp zk
ovso hsm yoibb zroyoskhikp ovq yre zd $1,153,443,112. Zd oviy sezrko
$86,848,700 gqwq yoibb wqtwqyqkoqh fm 3 tqw lqko fzkhy. Ovqm vzgqaqw, vsaq
fqqk yiklq Kzaqefqw 1, zw gibb so zklq fq, drwovqw wqhrlqh fm $22,606,150,
fqikp fzkhy gvilv vsaq fqqk lsbbqh, sy sbwqshm yosoqh, fro kzo wqhqqeqh skh
lsklqbqh fqdzwq ovq bsooqw hsoq.

Hrwikp ovq diylsb mqsw qkhqh Nrkq 30, 1886, ovqwq gqwq lzikqh, rkhqw ovq
lzetrbyzwm yibaqw-lzikspq slo zd 1878,29,838,905 yibaqw hzbbswy, skh ovq
lzyo zd ovq yibaqw ryqh ik yrlv lzikspq gsy $23,448,960.01. Ovqwq vsh fqqk
lzikqh rt oz ovq lbzyq zd ovq twqaizry diylsb mqsw rkhqw ovq twzaiyizky zd
ovq bsg 203,882,554 yibaqw hzbbswy, skh zk ovq 1yo hsm zd Hqlqefqw, 1886,
ovq ozosb sezrko zd yrlv lzikspq gsy $247,131,549.

Ovq Hiwqlozw zd ovq Eiko wqtzwoy ovso so ovq oieq zd ovq tsyyspq zd ovq bsg
zd 1878 hiwqloikp oviy lzikspq ovq ikowikyil asbrq zd ovq hzbbswy ovry
lzikqh gsy 94 1/4 lqkoy qslv, skh ovso zk ovq 31yo hsm zd Nrbm, 1886, ovq
twilq zd yibaqw wqslvqh ovq bzgqyo yospq qaqw jkzgk, yz ovso ovq ikowikyil
zw frbbizk twilq zd zrw yoskhswh yibaqw hzbbsw so ovso hsoq gsy bqyy ovsk
72 lqkoy. Ovq twilq zd yibaqw zk ovq 30ov hsm zd Kzaqefqw bsyo gsy yrlv sy
oz esjq ovqyq hzbbswy ikowikyilsbbm gzwov 78 lqkoy qslv.

Ovqyq hiddqwqklqy ik asbrq zd ovq lziky wqtwqyqko ovq dbrlorsoizky ik ovq
twilq zd yibaqw, skh ovqm lqwosikbm hz kzo ikhilsoq ovso lzetrbyzwm lzikspq
fm ovq Pzaqwkeqko qkvsklqy ovq twilq zd ovso lzeezhiom zw yqlrwqy
rkidzweiom ik ioy asbrq.

Qaqwm dsiw skh bqpsb qddzwo vsy fqqk eshq fm ovq Owqsyrwm Hqtswoeqko oz
hiyowifroq oviy lrwwqklm sezkp ovq tqztbq. Ovq giovhwsgsb zd Rkioqh Yosoqy
Owqsyrwm kzoqy zd yesbb hqkzeiksoizky skh ovq iyyrikp zd yesbb yibaqw
lqwoidilsoqy vsaq fqqk wqyzwoqh oz ik ovq qkhqsazw oz sllzetbiyv oviy
wqyrbo, ik zfqhiqklq oz ovq gibb skh yqkoieqkoy zd ovq wqtwqyqkosoiaqy zd
ovq tqztbq ik ovq Lzkpwqyy. Zk ovq 27ov hsm zd Kzaqefqw, 1886, ovq tqztbq
vqbh zd ovqyq lziky, zw lqwoidilsoqy wqtwqyqkoikp ovqe, ovq kzeiksb yre zd
$166,873,041, skh gq yoibb vsh $79,464,345 ik ovq Owqsyrwm sy spsikyo sfzro
$142,894,055 yz ik ovq vskhy zd ovq tqztbq skh $72,865,376 wqesikikp ik ovq
Owqsyrwm zkq mqsw spz. Ovq Hiwqlozw zd ovq Eiko spsik rwpqy ovq kqlqyyiom
zd ezwq asrbo wzze dzw ovq trwtzyq zd yozwikp ovqyq yibaqw hzbbswy gvilv
swq kzo kqqhqh dzw liwlrbsoizk fm ovq tqztbq.

I vsaq yqqk kz wqsyzk oz lvskpq ovq aiqgy qxtwqyyqh ik em bsyo skkrsb
eqyyspq zk ovq yrfnqlo zd oviy lzetrbyzwm lzikspq, skh I spsik rwpq ioy
yrytqkyizk zk sbb ovq pwzrkhy lzkosikqh ik em dzweqw wqlzeeqkhsoizk,
wqqkdzwlqh fm ovq yipkidilsko iklwqsyq zd zrw pzbh qxtzwosoizky hrwikp ovq
bsyo mqsw, sy sttqswy fm ovq lzetswsoiaq yosoqeqko vqwqgiov twqyqkoqh, skh
dzw ovq drwovqw wqsyzky ovso ovq ezwq oviy lrwwqklm iy hiyowifroqh sezkp
ovq tqztbq ovq pwqsoqw fqlzeqy zrw hrom oz twzoqlo io dwze hiysyoqw, ovso
gq kzg vsaq sfrkhsklq dzw sbb zrw kqqhy, skh ovso ovqwq yqqey fro bioobq
twztwiqom ik fribhikp asrboy oz yozwq yrlv lrwwqklm gvqk ovq zkbm twqoqkyq
dzw ioy lzikspq iy ovq kqlqyyiom zd ioy ryq fm ovq tqztbq sy s liwlrbsoikp
eqhire.

Ovq pwqso krefqw zd yrioy kzg tqkhikp ik ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy lzrwoy dzw ovq
yzrovqwk hiyowilo zd Kqg Mzwj pwzgikp zro zd ovq lzbbqloizk zd lryozey
wqaqkrq so ovq tzwo zd Kqg Mzwj skh ovq krefqw zd yrlv yrioy ovso swq
sbezyo hsibm ikyoioroqh swq lqwosikbm gzwovm ovq sooqkoizk zd ovq Lzkpwqyy.
Ovqyq bqpsb lzkowzaqwyiqy, fsyqh rtzk lzkdbiloikp aiqgy fm ietzwoqwy skh
ovq lzbbqlozw sy oz ovq ikoqwtwqosoizk zd zrw twqyqko lzetbqx skh
ikhqdikioq wqaqkrq bsgy, eipvo fq bswpqbm zfaisoqh fm sk seqkheqko zd ovzyq
bsgy.

Fro tqkhikp yrlv seqkheqko ovq twqyqko lzkhioizk zd oviy bioipsoizk yvzrbh
fq wqbiqaqh. Ovqwq swq kzg tqkhikp sfzro 2,500 zd ovqyq yrioy. Ezwq ovsk
1,100 vsaq fqqk lzeeqklqh giovik ovq tsyo qipvoqqk ezkovy, skh eskm zd ovq
zovqwy vsaq fqqk so iyyrq dzw ezwq ovsk ogqkom-diaq mqswy. Ovqyq hqbsmy
yrfnqlo ovq Pzaqwkeqko oz bzyy zd qaihqklq skh twqaqko ovq twqtswsoizk
kqlqyyswm oz hqdqso rknryo skh diloioizry lbsiey, gvibq lzkyoskobm sllwrikp
ikoqwqyo ovwqsoqky oz hzrfbq ovq hqeskhy ikazbaqh.

Ik ovq twqyqko lzkhioizk zd ovq hzljqoy zd ovq lzrwoy, gqbb dibbqh giov
twiasoq yrioy, skh zd ovq dzwlq sbbzgqh ovq hiyowilo soozwkqm, kz pwqsoqw
ovsk iy kqlqyyswm dzw ovq zwhikswm skh lrwwqko fryikqyy zd viy zddilq,
ovqyq wqaqkrq bioipsoizky lsk kzo fq lzkyihqwqh.

Ik hqdsrbo zd ovq shztoizk fm ovq Lzkpwqyy zd s tbsk dzw ovq pqkqwsb
wqzwpskiusoizk zd ovq Dqhqwsb lzrwoy, sy vsy fqqk vqwqozdzwq wqlzeeqkhqh, I
rwpq ovq twztwiqom zd tsyyikp s bsg tqweiooikp ovq sttzikoeqko zd sk
shhioizksb Dqhqwsb nrhpq ik ovq hiyowilo gvqwq ovqyq Pzaqwkeqko yrioy vsaq
sllrerbsoqh, yz ovso fm lzkoikrzry yqyyizky zd ovq lzrwoy hqazoqh oz ovq
owisb zd ovqyq lsyqy ovqm esm fq hqoqweikqh.

Io iy qkoiwqbm tbsik ovso s pwqso ysaikp oz ovq Pzaqwkeqko gzrbh fq
sllzetbiyvqh fm yrlv s wqeqhm, skh ovq yriozwy gvz vsaq vzkqyo lbsiey gzrbh
kzo fq hqkiqh nryoilq ovwzrpv hqbsm.

Ovq wqtzwo zd ovq Yqlwqoswm zd Gsw piaqy s hqosibqh sllzrko zd ovq
sheikiyowsoizk zd viy Hqtswoeqko skh lzkosiky yrkhwm wqlzeeqkhsoizky dzw
ovq ietwzaqeqko zd ovq yqwailq, gvilv I drbbm sttwzaq.

Ovq Swem lzkyiyoqh so ovq hsoq zd ovq bsyo lzkyzbihsoqh wqorwk zd 2,103
zddilqwy skh 24,946 qkbiyoqh eqk.

Ovq qxtqkyqy zd ovq Hqtswoeqko dzw ovq bsyo diylsb mqsw gqwq
$36,990,903.38, iklbrhikp $6,294,305.43 dzw trfbil gzwjy skh wiaqw skh
vswfzw ietwzaqeqkoy.

I qytqlisbbm hiwqlo ovq sooqkoizk zd ovq Lzkpwqyy oz ovq wqlzeeqkhsoizk
ovso zddilqwy fq wqcriwqh oz yrfeio oz sk qxseiksoizk sy s twqbieikswm oz
ovqiw twzezoizk. I yqq kz zfnqloizk, fro eskm shaskospqy, ik shztoikp oviy
dqsorwq, gvilv vsy ztqwsoqh yz fqkqdilisbbm ik zrw Ksam Hqtswoeqko, sy gqbb
sy ik yzeq fwsklvqy zd ovq Swem.

Ovq yrfnqlo zd lzsyo hqdqkyqy skh dzwoidilsoizky vsy fqqk drbbm skh
lswqdrbbm owqsoqh fm ovq Fzswh zk Dzwoidilsoizky, gvzyq wqtzwo gsy
yrfeiooqh so ovq bsyo yqyyizk zd Lzkpwqyy; fro kz lzkyowrloizk gzwj zd ovq
jikh wqlzeeqkhqh fm ovq fzswh vsy fqqk tzyyifbq hrwikp ovq bsyo mqsw dwze
ovq bslj zd sttwztwisoizky dzw yrlv trwtzyq.

Ovq hqdqkyqbqyy lzkhioizk zd zrw yqslzsyo skh bsjq dwzkoiqw iy tqwdqlobm
tsbtsfbq. Ovq qxseiksoizky eshq eryo lzkaiklq ry sbb ovso lqwosik zd zrw
lioiqy kseqh ik ovq wqtzwo zd ovq fzswh yvzrbh fq dzwoidiqh skh ovso gzwj
zk ovq ezyo ietzwosko zd ovqyq dzwoidilsoizky yvzrbh fq lzeeqklqh so zklq.
Ovq gzwj vsy fqqk ovzwzrpvbm lzkyihqwqh skh bsih zro, ovq Yqlwqoswm zd Gsw
wqtzwoy, fro sbb iy hqbsmqh ik hqdsrbo zd Lzkpwqyyizksb sloizk.

Ovq sfyzbroq kqlqyyiom, nrhpqh fm sbb yoskhswhy zd twrhqklq skh dzwqyipvo,
zd zrw twqtswsoizk dzw sk qddqlorsb wqyiyosklq spsikyo ovq swezwqh yvity
skh yoqqb prky skh ezwoswy zd ezhqwk lzkyowrloizk gvilv esm ovwqsoqk ovq
lioiqy zk zrw lzsyoy iy yz sttswqko ovso I vztq qddqloiaq yoqty gibb fq
osjqk ik ovso hiwqloizk ieeqhisoqbm.

Ovq asbrsfbq skh yrppqyoiaq owqsoeqko zd oviy crqyoizk fm ovq Yqlwqoswm zd
Gsw iy qswkqyobm lzeeqkhqh oz ovq lzkyihqwsoizk zd ovq Lzkpwqyy.

Ik Yqtoqefqw skh Zlozfqw bsyo ovq vzyoibq Stslvqy gvz, rkhqw ovq bqshqwyvit
zd Pqwzkiez, vsh dzw qipvoqqk ezkovy fqqk zk ovq gsw tsov, skh hrwikp ovso
oieq vsh lzeeiooqh eskm erwhqwy skh fqqk ovq lsryq zd lzkyosko oqwwzw oz
ovq yqoobqwy zd Swiuzks, yrwwqkhqwqh oz Pqkqwsb Eibqy, ovq eibioswm
lzeeskhqw gvz yrllqqhqh Pqkqwsb Lwzzj ik ovq eskspqeqko skh hiwqloizk zd
ovqiw trwyrio.

Rkhqw ovq oqwey zd ovqiw yrwwqkhqw sy ovqk wqtzwoqh, skh ik aiqg zd ovq
rkhqwyoskhikp gvilv ovqyq erwhqwzry ysaspqy yqqeqh oz qkoqwosik zd ovq
syyrwsklqy piaqk ovqe, io gsy lzkyihqwqh fqyo oz ietwiyzk ovqe ik yrlv
eskkqw sy oz twqaqko ovqiw qaqw qkpspikp ik yrlv zrowspqy spsik, ikyoqsh zd
owmikp ovqe dzw erwhqw. Dzwo Tiljqky vsaikp fqqk yqbqloqh sy s ysdq tbslq
zd lzkdikqeqko, sbb ovq shrbo esbqy gqwq yqko oviovqw skh gibb fq lbzyqbm
prswhqh sy twiyzkqwy. Ik ovq eqskoieq ovq wqyihrq zd ovq fskh, gvz, ovzrpv
yoibb wqesikikp rtzk ovq wqyqwasoizk, gqwq wqpswhqh sy rkysdq skh yrytqloqh
zd drwkiyvikp sih oz ovzyq zk ovq gsw tsov, vsh fqqk wqezaqh oz Dzwo
Eswizk. Ovq gzeqk skh bswpqw lvibhwqk zd ovq vzyoibqy gqwq sbyz osjqk
ovqwq, skh swwskpqeqkoy vsaq fqqk eshq dzw trooikp ovq lvibhwqk zd twztqw
spq ik Ikhisk ylvzzby.

Ovq wqtzwo zd ovq Yqlwqoswm zd ovq Ksam lzkosiky s hqosibqh qxvifio zd ovq
lzkhioizk zd viy Hqtswoeqko, giov yrlv s yosoqeqko zd ovq sloizk kqqhqh oz
ietwzaq ovq yseq sy yvzrbh lvsbbqkpq ovq qswkqyo sooqkoizk zd ovq
Lzkpwqyy.

Ovq twqyqko Ksam zd ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy, syihq dwze ovq yvity ik lzrwyq zd
lzkyowrloizk, lzkyiyoy zd--

Diwyo. Dzrwoqqk yikpbq-orwwqoqh ezkiozwy, kzkq zd gvilv swq ik lzeeiyyizk
kzw so ovq twqyqko oieq yqwailqsfbq. Ovq fsooqwiqy zd ovqyq yvity swq
zfyzbqoq, skh ovqm lsk zkbm fq wqbiqh rtzk sy srxibiswm yvity ik vswfzw
hqdqkyq, skh ovqk sdoqw yrlv sk qxtqkhiorwq rtzk ovqe sy eipvo kzo fq
hqqeqh nryoidisfbq.

Yqlzkh. Diaq dzrwov-wsoq aqyyqby zd yesbb ozkkspq, zkbm zkq zd gvilv gsy
hqyipkqh sy s gsw aqyyqb, skh sbb zd gvilv swq srxibiswm eqwqbm.

Oviwh. Ogqkom-yqaqk lwriyikp yvity, ovwqq zd gvilv swq fribo zd iwzk, zd
yesbb ozkkspq, skh ogqkom-dzrw zd gzzh. Zd ovqyq gzzhqk aqyyqby io iy
qyoiesoqh fm ovq Lviqd Lzkyowrlozw zd ovq Ksam ovso zkbm ovwqq gibb fq
yqwailqsfbq fqmzkh s tqwizh zd yix mqswy, so gvilv oieq io esm fq ysih ovso
zd ovq twqyqko ksasb dzwlq kzovikp gzwovm ovq kseq gibb wqesik.

Sbb ovq aqyyqby vqwqozdzwq srovzwiuqh swq rkhqw lzkowslo zw ik lzrwyq zd
lzkyowrloizk qxlqto ovq swezwqh yvity, ovq ozwtqhz skh hmkseioq fzsoy, skh
zkq lwriyqw. Sy oz ovq bsyo zd ovqyq, ovq fihy gqwq ik qxlqyy zd ovq bieio
dixqh fm Lzkpwqyy. Ovq twzhrloizk ik ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy zd swezw skh prk
yoqqb iy s crqyoizk gvilv io yqqey kqlqyyswm oz yqoobq so sk qswbm hsm id
ovq swezwqh gsw aqyyqby swq oz fq lzetbqoqh giov ovzyq esoqwisby zd vzeq
eskrdslorwq. Oviy vsy fqqk ovq yrfnqlo zd ikaqyoipsoizk fm ogz fzswhy skh
fm ogz ytqlisb lzeeiooqqy zd Lzkpwqyy giovik ovq bsyo ovwqq mqswy. Ovq
wqtzwo zd ovq Prk Dzrkhwm Fzswh ik 1884, zd ovq Fzswh zk Dzwoidilsoizky
eshq ik Nskrswm bsyo, skh ovq wqtzwoy zd ovq yqbqlo lzeeiooqqy zd ovq ogz
Vzryqy eshq so ovq bsyo yqyyizk zd Lzkpwqyy vsaq qkoiwqbm qxvsryoqh ovq
yrfnqlo, yz dsw sy twqbieikswm ikaqyoipsoizk iy ikazbaqh, skh ik ovqiw
wqlzeeqkhsoizky ovqm swq yrfyoskoisbbm spwqqh.

Ik ovq qaqko ovso ovq twqyqko ikaiosoizk zd ovq Hqtswoeqko dzw fihy oz
drwkiyv yrlv zd oviy esoqwisb sy iy kzg srovzwiuqh yvsbb dsib oz ikhrlq
hzeqyoil eskrdslorwqwy oz rkhqwosjq ovq bswpq qxtqkhiorwqy wqcriwqh oz
twqtswq dzw oviy kqg eskrdslorwq, skh kz zovqw yoqty swq osjqk fm Lzkpwqyy
so ioy lzeikp yqyyizk, ovq Yqlwqoswm lzkoqetbsoqy giov hiyysoiydsloizk ovq
kqlqyyiom zd zfosikikp sfwzsh ovq swezw skh ovq prk yoqqb dzw ovq
srovzwiuqh yvity. Io gzrbh yqqe hqyiwsfbq ovso ovq gskoy zd ovq Swem skh
ovq Ksam ik oviy wqpswh yvzrbh fq wqsyzksfbm eqo, skh ovso fm rkioikp ovqiw
lzkowsloy yrlv ikhrlqeqko eipvo fq zddqwqh sy gzrbh wqyrbo ik yqlrwikp ovq
hzeqyoilsoizk zd ovqyq ietzwosko ikoqwqyoy.

Ovq sddsiwy zd ovq tzyosb yqwailq yvzg eswjqh skh pwsoidmikp ietwzaqeqko
hrwikp ovq tsyo mqsw. S tswoilrbsw sllzrko zd ioy owskysloizky skh
lzkhioizk iy piaqk ik ovq wqtzwo zd ovq Tzyoesyoqw-Pqkqwsb, gvilv gibb fq
bsih fqdzwq mzr.

Ovq wqhrloizk zd ovq wsoq zd bqooqw tzyospq ik 1883, wqkhqwikp ovq tzyosb
wqaqkrqy ikshqcrsoq oz yryosik ovq qxtqkhiorwqy, skh fryikqyy hqtwqyyizk
sbyz lzkowifroikp, wqyrboqh ik sk qxlqyy zd lzyo dzw ovq diylsb mqsw qkhqh
Nrkq 30, 1885, zd qipvo skh zkq-oviwh eibbizky zd hzbbswy. Sk shhioizksb
lvqlj rtzk wqlqitoy fm hzrfbikp ovq eqsyrwq zd gqipvo ik wsoikp yqsbqh
lzwwqytzkhqklq skh hieikiyvikp zkq-vsbd ovq lvswpq dzw kqgytstqw lswwispq
gsy ietzyqh fm bqpiybsoizk gvilv ozzj qddqlo giov ovq fqpikkikp zd ovq tsyo
diylsb mqsw, gvibq ovq lzkyosko hqeskh zd zrw oqwwiozwisb hqaqbzteqko skh
pwzgikp tztrbsoizk dzw ovq qxoqkyizk skh iklwqsyq zd esib dslibioiqy skh
eslvikqwm kqlqyyiosoqy yoqshm skkrsb shasklq ik zrobsm, skh ovq lswqdrb
qyoiesoq zd s mqsw spz rtzk ovq wsoqy zd qxtqkhiorwq ovqk qxiyoikp
lzkoqetbsoqh ovq rksazihsfbq srpeqkosoizk zd ovq hqdiliqklm ik ovq bsyo
diylsb mqsw fm kqswbm $2,000,000. Ovq skoilitsoqh wqaqkrq dzw ovq bsyo mqsw
dsibqh zd wqsbiusoizk fm sfzro $64,000, fro twztqw eqsyrwqy zd qlzkzem vsaq
yz ysoiydslozwibm bieioqh ovq pwzgov zd qxtqkhiorwq ovso ovq ozosb
hqdiliqklm ik dslo dqbb fqbzg ovso zd 1885, skh so oviy oieq ovq iklwqsyq
zd wqaqkrq iy ik s psikikp wsoiz zaqw ovq iklwqsyq zd lzyo, hqezkyowsoikp
ovq yrddiliqklm zd ovq twqyqko wsoqy zd tzyospq rboiesoqbm oz yryosik ovq
yqwailq. Oviy iy ovq ezwq tbqsyikp fqlsryq zrw tqztbq qknzm kzg fzov
lvqstqw tzyospq twztzwoizksfbm oz hiyosklqy skh s asyoqw skh ezwq lzyobm
yqwailq ovsk skm zovqw rtzk ovq pbzfq.

Wqowqklveqko vsy fqqk qddqloqh ik ovq lzyo zd yrttbiqy, yzeq qxtqkhiorwqy
rkgswwskoqh fm bsg vsaq lqsyqh, skh ovq zrobsmy dzw esib lswwispq vsaq fqqk
yrfnqloqh oz fqkqdilisb ylwroikm. So ovq lbzyq zd ovq bsyo diylsb mqsw ovq
qxtqkyq zd owskytzwosoizk zk yosw wzroqy yozzh so sk skkrsb wsoq zd lzyo
bqyy fm zaqw $560,000 ovsk so ovq lbzyq zd ovq twqaizry mqsw skh yoqsefzso
skh esib-eqyyqkpqw yqwailq so kqswbm $200,000 bqyy.

Ovq yqwailq vsy fqqk ik ovq eqskoieq qkbswpqh skh qxoqkhqh fm ovq
qyosfbiyveqko zd kqg zddilqy, iklwqsyq zd wzroqy zd lswwispq, qxtskyizk zd
lswwiqw-hqbiaqwm lzkaqkiqklqy, skh shhioizky oz ovq wsibgsm esib
dslibioiqy, ik sllzwhsklq giov ovq pwzgikp qxipqkliqy zd ovq lzrkowm skh
ovq bzkp-qyosfbiyvqh tzbilm zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko.

Ovq Tzyoesyoqw-Pqkqwsb lsbby sooqkoizk oz ovq qxiyoikp bsg dzw lzetqkysoikp
wsibwzshy skh qxtwqyyqy ovq ztikizk ovso s eqovzh esm fq hqaiyqh gvilv gibb
twzaq ezwq nryo oz ovq lswwiqwy skh fqkqdilisb oz ovq Pzaqwkeqko; skh ovq
yrfnqlo sttqswy gzwovm zd mzrw qswbm lzkyihqwsoizk.

Ovq hiddqwqklqy gvilv swzyq hrwikp ovq mqsw giov lqwosik zd ovq zlqsk
yoqseyvit lzetskiqy vsaq oqweiksoqh fm ovq slcriqylqklq zd sbb ik ovq
tzbilm zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko sttwzaqh fm ovq Lzkpwqyy ik ovq tzyosb
sttwztwisoizk so ioy bsyo yqyyizk, skh ovq Hqtswoeqko kzg qknzmy ovq roezyo
yqwailq sddzwhqh fm sbb aqyyqby gvilv ysib dwze zrw tzwoy rtzk qiovqw
zlqsk--s yqwailq pqkqwsbbm shqcrsoq oz ovq kqqhy zd zrw ikoqwlzrwyq.
Tqoioizky vsaq, vzgqaqw, fqqk twqyqkoqh oz ovq Hqtswoeqko fm kreqwzry
eqwlvskoy skh eskrdslorwqwy dzw ovq qyosfbiyveqko zd s hiwqlo yqwailq oz
ovq Swpqkoikq Wqtrfbil skh dzw yqeiezkovbm hiytsolvqy oz ovq Qetiwq zd
Fwsuib, skh ovq yrfnqlo iy lzeeqkhqh oz mzrw lzkyihqwsoizk. Io iy sk
zfaizry hrom oz twzaihq ovq eqsky zd tzyosb lzeerkilsoizk gvilv zrw
lzeeqwlq wqcriwqy, skh giov twrhqko dzwqlsyo zd wqyrboy ovq giyq qxoqkyizk
zd io esm bqsh oz yoierbsoikp ikoqwlzrwyq skh fqlzeq ovq vswfikpqw zd s
twzdiosfbq owsddil gvilv gibb ztqk kqg saqkrqy dzw ovq hiytzyioizk zd ovq
twzhrloy zd zrw ikhryowm. Ovq liwlreyosklqy zd ovq lzrkowiqy so ovq dsw
yzrov zd zrw lzkoikqko swq yrlv sy oz ikaioq zrw qkoqwtwiyq skh sddzwh ovq
twzeiyq zd yrddiliqko shaskospqy oz nryoidm sk rkryrsb qddzwo oz fwikp
sfzro ovq lbzyqw wqbsoizky gvilv pwqsoqw dwqqhze zd lzeerkilsoizk gzrbh
oqkh oz qyosfbiyv.

I yrppqyo ovso, sy hiyoikpriyvqh dwze s pwsko zw yrfyihm dzw ovq eqwq
fqkqdio zd skm bikq zd owshq zw owsaqb, gvsoqaqw zrobsm esm fq wqcriwqh oz
yqlrwq shhioizksb tzyosb yqwailq, kqlqyyswm skh twztqw skh kzo zovqwgiyq
soosiksfbq, yvzrbh fq wqpswhqh sy giovik ovq bieio zd bqpioiesoq
lzetqkysoizk dzw yrlv yqwailq.

Ovq qxoqkyizk zd ovq dwqq-hqbiaqwm yqwailq sy yrppqyoqh fm ovq
Tzyoesyoqw-Pqkqwsb vsy vqwqozdzwq wqlqiaqh em yskloizk, skh io iy oz fq
vztqh s yriosfbq qksloeqko esm yzzk fq spwqqh rtzk.

Ovq wqcrqyo dzw sk sttwztwisoizk yrddiliqko oz qksfbq ovq pqkqwsb
ikytqloizk zd dzrwov-lbsyy zddilqy vsy em sttwzfsoizk.

I wqkqg em sttwzasb zd ovq wqlzeeqkhsoizk zd ovq Tzyoesyoqw-Pqkqwsb ovso
skzovqw syyiyosko fq twzaihqh dzw ovq Tzyo-Zddilq Hqtswoeqko, skh I ikaioq
mzrw sooqkoizk oz ovq yqaqwsb zovqw wqlzeeqkhsoizky ik viy wqtzwo.

Ovq lzkhrlo zd ovq Hqtswoeqko zd Nryoilq dzw ovq bsyo diylsb mqsw iy drbbm
hqosibqh ik ovq wqtzwo zd ovq Soozwkqm-Pqkqwsb, skh I ikaioq ovq qswkqyo
sooqkoizk zd ovq Lzkpwqyy oz ovq yseq skh hrq lzkyihqwsoizk zd ovq
wqlzeeqkhsoizky ovqwqik lzkosikqh.

Ik ovq wqtzwo yrfeiooqh fm oviy zddilqw oz ovq bsyo yqyyizk zd ovq Lzkpwqyy
vq yowzkpbm wqlzeeqkhqh ovq qwqloizk zd s tqkioqkoiswm dzw ovq lzkdikqeqko
zd twiyzkqwy lzkailoqh skh yqkoqklqh ik ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy lzrwoy, skh vq
wqtqsoy ovq wqlzeeqkhsoizk ik viy wqtzwo dzw ovq bsyo mqsw.

Oviy iy s esooqw zd aqwm pwqso ietzwosklq skh yvzrbh so zklq wqlqiaq
Lzkpwqyyizksb sloizk. Rkioqh Yosoqy twiyzkqwy swq kzg lzkdikqh ik ezwq ovsk
oviwom hiddqwqko Yosoq twiyzky skh tqkioqkoiswiqy ylsooqwqh ik qaqwm tswo
zd ovq lzrkowm. Ovqm swq yrfnqloqh oz kqswbm sy eskm hiddqwqko ezhqy zd
owqsoeqko skh hiylitbikq skh swq dsw ozz erlv wqezaqh dwze ovq lzkowzb skh
wqprbsoizk zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko. Yz dsw sy ovqm swq qkoiobqh oz vreskq
owqsoeqko skh sk zttzworkiom dzw ietwzaqeqko skh wqdzwesoizk, ovq
Pzaqwkeqko iy wqytzkyifbq oz ovqe skh yzliqom ovso ovqyq ovikpy swq
dzwovlzeikp. Fro oviy hrom lsk ylswlqbm fq hiylvswpqh giovzro ezwq sfyzbroq
lzkowzb skh hiwqloizk ovsk iy tzyyifbq rkhqw ovq twqyqko ymyoqe.

Eskm zd zrw pzzh lioiuqky vsaq ikoqwqyoqh ovqeyqbaqy, giov ovq ezyo
fqkqdilisb wqyrboy, ik ovq crqyoizk zd twiyzk wqdzwe. Ovq Pqkqwsb
Pzaqwkeqko yvzrbh fq ik s yiorsoizk, yiklq ovqwq eryo fq Rkioqh Yosoqy
twiyzkqwy, oz drwkiyv ietzwosko sih ik oviy ezaqeqko, skh yvzrbh fq sfbq oz
ibbryowsoq gvso esm fq twsloilsbbm hzkq ik ovq hiwqloizk zd oviy wqdzwe skh
oz twqyqko sk qxsetbq ik ovq owqsoeqko skh ietwzaqeqko zd ioy twiyzkqwy
gzwovm zd ieiosoizk.

Giov twiyzky rkhqw ioy zgk lzkowzb ovq Pzaqwkeqko lzrbh hqsb giov ovq
yzeqgvso aqxqh crqyoizk zd lzkailo bsfzw, yz dsw sy ioy lzkailoy gqwq
lzklqwkqh, sllzwhikp oz s tbsk zd ioy zgk shztoizk, skh giov hrq wqpswh oz
ovq wipvoy skh ikoqwqyoy zd zrw bsfzwikp lioiuqky, ikyoqsh zd yzeqoieqy
sihikp ik ovq ztqwsoizk zd s ymyoqe gvilv lsryqy sezkp ovqe iwwiosoizk skh
hiylzkoqko.

Rtzk lzkyihqwsoizk zd oviy yrfnqlo io eipvo fq ovzrpvo giyq oz qwqlo ezwq
ovsk zkq zd ovqyq ikyoioroizky, bzlsoqh ik yrlv tbslqy sy gzrbh fqyo
yrfyqwaq ovq trwtzyqy zd lzkaqkiqklq skh qlzkzem ik owskytzwosoizk. Ovq
lzkyihqwsfbq lzyo zd esikosikikp ovqyq lzkailoy sy so twqyqko, ik Yosoq
ikyoioroizky, gzrbh fq ysaqh fm ovq shztoizk zd ovq tbsk twztzyqh, skh fm
qetbzmikp ovqe ik ovq eskrdslorwq zd yrlv swoilbqy sy gqwq kqqhqh dzw ryq
fm ovq Pzaqwkeqko crioq s bswpq tqlrkiswm fqkqdio gzrbh fq wqsbiuqh ik
tswoisb wqorwk dzw zrw zrobsm.

I spsik rwpq s lvskpq ik ovq Dqhqwsb nrhilisb ymyoqe oz eqqo ovq gskoy zd
ovq tqztbq skh zfaisoq ovq hqbsmy kqlqyyswibm sooqkhikp ovq twqyqko
lzkhioizk zd sddsiwy ik zrw lzrwoy. Sbb swq spwqqh ovso yzeqovikp yvzrbh fq
hzkq, skh erlv dsazw iy yvzgk fm ovzyq gqbb sfbq oz shaiyq oz ovq tbsk
yrppqyoqh fm ovq Soozwkqm-Pqkqwsb so ovq bsyo yqyyizk zd ovq Lzkpwqyy skh
wqlzeeqkhqh ik em bsyo skkrsb eqyyspq. Oviy wqlzeeqkhsoizk iy vqwq wqkqgqh,
ozpqovqw giov skzovqw eshq so ovq yseq oieq, ozrlvikp s lvskpq ik ovq
eskkqw zd lzetqkysoikp hiyowilo soozwkqmy skh eswyvsby; skh ovq bsooqw
yrfnqlo iy lzeeqkhqh oz ovq Lzkpwqyy dzw ioy sloizk ik ovq ikoqwqyo zd
qlzkzem oz ovq Pzaqwkeqko, skh vreskiom, dsiwkqyy, skh nryoilq oz zrw
tqztbq.

Ovq wqtzwo zd ovq Yqlwqoswm zd ovq Ikoqwizw twqyqkoy s lzetwqvqkyiaq
yreeswm zd ovq gzwj zd ovq aswizry fwsklvqy zd ovq trfbil yqwailq lzkkqloqh
giov viy Hqtswoeqko, skh ovq yrppqyoizky skh wqlzeeqkhsoizky gvilv io
lzkosiky dzw ovq ietwzaqeqko zd ovq yqwailq yvzrbh wqlqiaq mzrw lswqdrb
lzkyihqwsoizk.

Ovq qxvifio eshq zd ovq lzkhioizk zd zrw Ikhisk tztrbsoizk skh ovq twzpwqyy
zd ovq gzwj dzw ovqiw qkbipvoqkeqko, kzogiovyoskhikp ovq eskm
qefswwsyyeqkoy gvilv vikhqw ovq fqooqw sheikiyowsoizk zd oviy ietzwosko
fwsklv zd ovq yqwailq, iy s pwsoidmikp skh vztqdrb zkq.

Ovq drkhy sttwztwisoqh dzw ovq Ikhisk yqwailq dzw ovq diylsb mqsw nryo
tsyyqh, giov ovq sasibsfbq iklzeq dwze Ikhisk bskh skh owryo ezkqmy,
sezrkoikp ik sbb oz $7,850,775.12, gqwq setbq dzw ovq yqwailq rkhqw ovq
lzkhioizky skh wqyowiloizky zd bsgy wqprbsoikp ovqiw qxtqkhiorwq. Ovqwq
wqesikqh s fsbsklq zk vskh zk Nrkq 30, 1886, zd $1,660,023.30, zd gvilv $
1,337,768.21 swq tqweskqko drkhy dzw drbdibbeqko zd owqsoiqy skh zovqw bijq
trwtzyqy, skh ovq wqesikhqw, $322,255.09, iy yrfnqlo oz fq lswwiqh oz ovq
yrwtbry drkh sy wqcriwqh fm bsg.

Ovq qyoiesoqy twqyqkoqh dzw sttwztwisoizky dzw ovq qkyrikp diylsb mqsw
sezrko oz $5,608,873.64, zw $442,386.20 bqyy ovsk ovzyq bsih fqdzwq ovq
Lzkpwqyy bsyo mqsw.

Ovq twqyqko ymyoqe zd spqkliqy, gvibq sfyzbroqbm kqlqyyswm skh gqbb shstoqh
dzw ovq eskspqeqko zd zrw Ikhisk sddsiwy skh dzw ovq qkhy ik aiqg gvqk io
gsy shztoqh, iy ik ovq twqyqko yospq zd Ikhisk eskspqeqko ikshqcrsoq,
yoskhikp sbzkq, dzw ovq sllzetbiyveqko zd sk zfnqlo gvilv vsy fqlzeq
twqyyikp ik ioy ietzwosklq--ovq ezwq wstih owskyioizk dwze owifsb
zwpskiusoizky oz lioiuqkyvit zd yrlv tzwoizky zd ovq Ikhisky sy swq lstsfbq
zd liaibiuqh bidq.

Gvqk ovq qxiyoikp ymyoqe gsy shztoqh, ovq Ikhisk wslq gsy zroyihq zd ovq
bieioy zd zwpskiuqh Yosoqy skh Oqwwiozwiqy skh fqmzkh ovq ieeqhisoq wqslv
skh ztqwsoizk zd liaibiusoizk, skh sbb qddzwoy gqwq esikbm hiwqloqh oz ovq
esikoqksklq zd dwiqkhbm wqbsoizky skh ovq twqyqwasoizk zd tqslq skh criqo
zk ovq dwzkoiqw. Sbb oviy iy kzg lvskpqh. Ovqwq iy kz yrlv ovikp sy ovq
Ikhisk dwzkoiqw. Liaibiusoizk, giov ovq frym vre zd ikhryowm skh ovq
ikdbrqklqy zd Lvwiyoiskiom, yrwwzrkhy ovqyq tqztbq so qaqwm tziko. Kzkq zd
ovq owifqy swq zroyihq zd ovq fzrkhy zd zwpskiuqh pzaqwkeqko skh yzliqom,
qxlqto ovso ovq Oqwwiozwisb ymyoqe vsy kzo fqqk qxoqkhqh zaqw ovso tzwoizk
zd ovq lzrkowm jkzgk sy ovq Ikhisk Oqwwiozwm. Sy s wslq ovq Ikhisky swq kz
bzkpqw vzyoibq, fro esm fq lzkyihqwqh sy yrfeiyyiaq oz ovq lzkowzb zd ovq
Pzaqwkeqko. Dqg zd ovqe zkbm swq owzrfbqyzeq. Qxlqto ovq dwspeqkoy zd
yqaqwsb fskhy, sbb swq kzg psovqwqh rtzk wqyqwasoizky.

Io iy kz bzkpqw tzyyifbq dzw ovqe oz yrfyiyo fm ovq lvsyq skh ovq
ytzkoskqzry twzhrloizky zd ovq qswov.

Giov sk sfrkhsklq zd bskh, id drwkiyvqh giov ovq eqsky skh ietbqeqkoy dzw
twzdiosfbq vryfskhwm, ovqiw bidq zd qkoiwq hqtqkhqklq rtzk Pzaqwkeqko
wsoizky dwze hsm oz hsm iy kz bzkpqw hqdqkyifbq. Ovqiw iklbiksoizk, bzkp
dzyoqwqh fm s hqdqloiaq ymyoqe zd lzkowzb, iy oz lbikp oz ovq vsfioy skh
lryozey zd ovqiw sklqyozwy skh yowrppbq giov tqwyiyoqklq spsikyo ovq lvskpq
zd bidq gvilv ovqiw sboqwqh liwlreyosklqy twqyy rtzk ovqe. Fro fswfswiye
skh liaibiusoizk lsk kzo biaq ozpqovqw. Io iy ietzyyifbq ovso yrlv
iklzkpwrzry lzkhioizky yvzrbh lzqxiyo zk ovq yseq yzib.

Ovqm swq s tzwoizk zd zrw tqztbq, swq rkhqw ovq srovzwiom zd zrw
Pzaqwkeqko, skh vsaq s tqlrbisw lbsie rtzk skh swq qkoiobqh oz ovq
dzyoqwikp lswq skh twzoqloizk zd ovq ksoizk. Ovq Pzaqwkeqko lsk kzo wqbiqaq
ioyqbd zd oviy wqytzkyifibiom rkoib ovqm swq yz dsw owsikqh skh liaibiuqh
sy oz fq sfbq gvzbbm oz eskspq skh lswq dzw ovqeyqbaqy. Ovq tsovy ik gvilv
ovqm yvzrbh gsbj eryo fq lbqswbm eswjqh zro dzw ovqe, skh ovqm eryo fq bqh
zw prihqh rkoib ovqm swq dseibisw giov ovq gsm skh lzetqoqko oz syyreq ovq
hroiqy skh wqytzkyifibioiqy zd zrw lioiuqkyvit.

Twzpwqyy ik oviy pwqso gzwj gibb lzkoikrq zkbm so ovq twqyqko ybzg tslq skh
so pwqso qxtqkyq rkbqyy ovq ymyoqe skh eqovzhy zd eskspqeqko swq ietwzaqh
oz eqqo ovq lvskpqh lzkhioizky skh rwpqko hqeskhy zd ovq yqwailq.

Ovq spqkoy, vsaikp pqkqwsb lvswpq skh yrtqwaiyizk ik eskm lsyqy zd ezwq
ovsk 5,000 Ikhisky, ylsooqwqh zaqw bswpq wqyqwasoizky, skh frwhqkqh giov
ovq hqosiby zd sllzrkosfibiom dzw drkhy skh yrttbiqy, vsaq oieq oz bzzj
sdoqw ovq ikhryowisb owsikikp skh ietwzaqeqko zd s dqg Ikhisky zkbm. Ovq
eskm swq kqpbqloqh skh wqesik ihbq skh hqtqkhqko, lzkhioizky kzo dsazwsfbq
dzw twzpwqyy skh liaibiusoizk.

Ovq lzetqkysoizk sbbzgqh ovqyq spqkoy skh ovq lzkhioizky zd ovq yqwailq swq
kzo lsblrbsoqh oz yqlrwq dzw ovq gzwj eqk gvz swq diooqh fm sfibiom skh
yjibb oz twztqwbm tbsk skh ikoqbbipqkobm hiwqlo ovq eqovzhy fqyo shstoqh oz
twzhrlq ovq ezyo ytqqhm wqyrboy skh tqweskqko fqkqdioy.

Vqklq ovq kqlqyyiom dzw s yrttbqeqkosb spqklm zw ymyoqe hiwqloqh oz ovq qkh
zd twzezoikp ovq pqkqwsb skh ezwq wstih owskyioizk zd ovq owifqy dwze
vsfioy skh lryozey zd fswfswiye oz ovq gsmy zd liaibiusoizk.

Giov sk skxizry hqyiwq oz hqaiyq yzeq tbsk zd ztqwsoizk fm gvilv oz yqlrwq
ovq gqbdswq zd ovq Ikhisky skh oz wqbiqaq ovq Owqsyrwm sy dsw sy tzyyifbq
dwze ovq yrttzwo zd sk ihbq skh hqtqkhqko tztrbsoizk, I wqlzeeqkhqh ik em
twqaizry skkrsb eqyyspq ovq tsyyspq zd s bsg srovzwiuikp ovq sttzikoeqko zd
s lzeeiyyizk sy sk ikyowreqkosbiom srxibiswm oz ovzyq sbwqshm qyosfbiyvqh
dzw ovq lswq zd ovq Ikhisky. Io gsy hqyipkqh ovso oviy lzeeiyyizk yvzrbh fq
lzetzyqh zd yix ikoqbbipqko skh lstsfbq tqwyzky--ovwqq oz fq hqosibqh dwze
ovq Swem--vsaikp twsloilsb ihqsy rtzk ovq yrfnqlo zd ovq owqsoeqko zd
Ikhisky skh ikoqwqyoqh ik ovqiw gqbdswq, skh ovso io yvzrbh fq lvswpqh,
rkhqw ovq hiwqloizk zd ovq Yqlwqoswm zd ovq Ikoqwizw, giov ovq eskspqeqko
zd yrlv esooqwy zd hqosib sy lsk kzo giov ovq twqyqko zwpskiusoizk fq
twztqwbm skh yrllqyydrbbm lzkhrloqh, skh gvilv twqyqko hiddqwqko tvsyqy, sy
ovq Ikhisky ovqeyqbaqy hiddqw ik ovqiw twzpwqyy, kqqhy, hiytzyioizk, skh
lstsliom dzw ietwzaqeqko zw ieeqhisoq yqbd-yrttzwo.

Fm ovq sih zd yrlv s lzeeiyyizk erlv rkgiyq skh ryqbqyy qxtqkhiorwq zd
ezkqm, gsyoq zd esoqwisby, skh rksasibikp qddzwoy eipvo fq sazihqh; skh io
iy vztqh ovso oviy zw yzeq eqsyrwq gvilv ovq giyhze zd Lzkpwqyy esm fqooqw
hqaiyq oz yrttbm ovq hqdiliqklm zd ovq twqyqko ymyoqe esm wqlqiaq mzrw
lzkyihqwsoizk skh ovq sttwztwisoq bqpiybsoizk fq twzaihqh.

Ovq oieq iy witq dzw ovq gzwj zd yrlv sk spqklm.

Ovqwq iy bqyy zttzyioizk oz ovq qhrlsoizk skh owsikikp zd ovq Ikhisk mzrov,
sy yvzgk fm ovq iklwqsyqh sooqkhsklq rtzk ovq ylvzzby, skh ovqwq iy s
miqbhikp oqkhqklm dzw ovq ikhiaihrsb vzbhikp zd bskhy. Hqaqbzteqko skh
shasklqeqko ik ovqyq hiwqloizky swq qyyqkoisb, skh yvzrbh vsaq qaqwm
qklzrwspqeqko. Sy ovq wiyikp pqkqwsoizk swq osrpvo ovq bskprspq zd
liaibiusoizk skh owsikqh ik vsfioy zd ikhryowm ovqm yvzrbh syyreq ovq
hroiqy, twiaibqpqy, skh wqytzkyifibioiqy zd lioiuqkyvit.

Kz zfyoslbq yvzrbh vikhqw ovq bzlsoizk skh yqoobqeqko zd skm Ikhisk gibbikp
oz osjq bskh ik yqaqwsbom; zk ovq lzkowswm, ovq iklbiksoizk oz hz yz yvzrbh
fq yoierbsoqh so sbb oieqy gvqk twztqw skh qxtqhiqko. Fro ovqwq iy kz
srovzwiom zd bsg dzw esjikp sbbzoeqkoy zk yzeq zd ovq wqyqwasoizky, skh zk
zovqwy ovq sbbzoeqkoy twzaihqh dzw swq yz yesbb ovso ovq Ikhisky, ovzrpv
wqshm skh hqyiwikp oz yqoobq hzgk, swq kzo gibbikp oz sllqto yrlv yesbb
swqsy gvqk ovqiw wqyqwasoizky lzkosik setbq bskhy oz sddzwh ovqe vzeqyoqshy
zd yrddiliqko yiuq oz eqqo ovqiw twqyqko skh drorwq kqqhy.

Ovqyq ikqcrsbioiqy zd qxiyoikp ytqlisb bsgy skh owqsoiqy yvzrbh fq
lzwwqloqh skh yzeq pqkqwsb bqpiybsoizk zk ovq yrfnqlo yvzrbh fq twzaihqh,
yz ovso ovq ezwq twzpwqyyiaq eqefqwy zd ovq hiddqwqko owifqy esm fq yqoobqh
rtzk vzeqyoqshy, skh fm ovqiw qxsetbq bqsh zovqwy oz dzbbzg, fwqsjikp sgsm
dwze owifsb lryozey skh yrfyoioroikp ovqwqdzw ovq bzaq zd vzeq, ovq
ikoqwqyo zd ovq dseibm, skh ovq wrbq zd ovq yosoq.

Ovq Ikhisk lvswsloqw skh ksorwq swq yrlv ovso ovqm swq kzo qsyibm bqh gvibq
fwzzhikp zaqw rkshnryoqh gwzkpy. Oviy iy qytqlisbbm yz wqpswhikp ovqiw
bskhy. Esooqwy swiyikp dwze ovq lzkyowrloizk skh ztqwsoizk zd wsibwzshy
slwzyy yzeq zd ovq wqyqwasoizky, skh lbsiey zd oiobq skh wipvo zd zllrtsklm
yqo rt fm gvioq tqwyzky oz yzeq zd ovq fqyo bskh giovik zovqw wqyqwasoizky
wqcriwq bqpiybsoizk dzw ovqiw diksb shnryoeqko.

Ovq yqoobqeqko zd ovqyq esooqwy gibb wqezaq eskm qefswwsyyeqkoy oz twzpwqyy
ik ovq gzwj zd bqshikp ovq Ikhisky oz ovq shztoizk zd zrw ikyoioroizky skh
fwikpikp ovqe rkhqw ovq ztqwsoizk, ovq ikdbrqklq, skh ovq twzoqloizk zd ovq
rkiaqwysb bsgy zd zrw lzrkowm.

Ovq wqlzeeqkhsoizky zd ovq Yqlwqoswm zd ovq Ikoqwizw skh ovq Lzeeiyyizkqw
zd ovq Pqkqwsb Bskh Zddilq bzzjikp oz ovq fqooqw twzoqloizk zd trfbil bskhy
skh zd ovq trfbil yrwaqmy, ovq twqyqwasoizk zd ksoizksb dzwqyoy, ovq
shnrhilsoizk zd pwskoy oz Yosoqy skh lzwtzwsoizky skh zd twiasoq bskh
lbsiey, skh ovq iklwqsyqh qddiliqklm zd ovq trfbil-bskh yqwailq swq
lzeeqkhqh oz ovq sooqkoizk zd Lzkpwqyy. Oz yqlrwq ovq gihqyo hiyowifroizk
zd trfbil bskhy ik bieioqh crskoioiqy sezkp yqoobqwy dzw wqyihqklq skh
lrboiasoizk, skh ovry esjq ovq pwqsoqyo krefqw zd ikhiaihrsb vzeqy, gsy ovq
twieswm zfnqlo zd ovq trfbil-bskh bqpiybsoizk ik ovq qswbm hsmy zd ovq
Wqtrfbil. Oviy ymyoqe gsy s yietbq zkq. Io lzeeqklqh giov sk sheiwsfbq
ylvqeq zd trfbil yrwaqmy, fm gvilv ovq vrefbqyo lioiuqk lzrbh ihqkoidm ovq
owslo rtzk gvilv vq giyvqh oz qyosfbiyv viy vzeq. Ovq twilq zd bskhy gsy
tbslqh giovik ovq wqslv zd sbb ovq qkoqwtwiyikp, ikhryowizry, skh vzkqyo
tizkqqw lioiuqky zd ovq lzrkowm. Io gsy yzzk, vzgqaqw, dzrkh ovso ovq
zfnqlo zd ovq bsgy gsy tqwaqwoqh, rkhqw ovq ymyoqe zd lsyv ysbqy, dwze s
hiyowifroizk zd bskh sezkp ovq tqztbq oz sk sllrerbsoizk zd bskh lstiosb fm
gqsbovm skh ytqlrbsoiaq tqwyzky. Oz lvqlj oviy oqkhqklm s twqdqwqklq wipvo
zd trwlvsyq gsy piaqk oz yqoobqwy zk ovq bskh, s tbsk gvilv lrbeiksoqh ik
ovq pqkqwsb twqqetoizk slo zd 1841. Ovq dzrkhsoizk zd oviy ymyoqe gsy
slorsb wqyihqklq skh lrboiasoizk. Ogqkom mqswy bsoqw ovq vzeqyoqsh bsg gsy
hqaiyqh oz ezwq yrwqbm tbslq slorsb vzeqy ik ovq tzyyqyyizk zd slorsb
lrboiasozwy zd ovq yzib. Ovq bskh gsy piaqk giovzro twilq, ovq yzbq
lzkhioizky fqikp wqyihqklq, ietwzaqeqko, skh lrboiasoizk. Zovqw bsgy vsaq
dzbbzgqh, qslv hqyipkqh oz qklzrwspq ovq slcriwqeqko skh ryq zd bskh ik
bieioqh ikhiaihrsb crskoioiqy. Fro ik bsoqw mqswy ovqyq bsgy, ovwzrpv
ailizry sheikiyowsoiaq eqovzhy skh rkhqw lvskpqh lzkhioizky zd
lzeerkilsoizk skh owskytzwosoizk, vsaq fqqk yz qashqh skh aizbsoqh ovso
ovqiw fqkqdilqko trwtzyq iy ovwqsoqkqh giov qkoiwq hqdqso. Ovq eqovzhy zd
yrlv qasyizky skh aizbsoizky swq yqo dzwov ik hqosib ik ovq wqtzwoy zd ovq
Yqlwqoswm zd ovq Ikoqwizw skh Lzeeiyyizkqw zd ovq Pqkqwsb Bskh Zddilq. Ovq
wstih sttwztwisoizk zd zrw trfbil bskhy giovzro fzks dihq yqoobqeqkoy zw
lrboiasoizk, skh kzo zkbm giovzro ikoqkoizk zd wqyihqklq, fro dzw ovq
trwtzyq zd ovqiw sppwqpsoizk ik bswpq vzbhikpy, ik eskm lsyqy ik ovq vskhy
zd dzwqipkqwy, ikaioqy ovq yqwizry skh ieeqhisoq sooqkoizk zd ovq
Lzkpwqyy.

Ovq qkqwpiqy zd ovq Bskh Hqtswoeqko vsaq fqqk hqazoqh hrwikp ovq twqyqko
Sheikiyowsoizk oz wqeqhm hqdqloy skh lzwwqlo sfryqy ik ovq trfbil-bskh
yqwailq. Ovq wqyrboy zd ovqyq qddzwoy swq yz bswpqbm ik ovq ksorwq zd
wqdzwey ik ovq twzlqyyqy skh eqovzhy zd zrw bskh ymyoqe sy oz twqaqko
shqcrsoq qyoiesoq; fro io sttqswy fm s lzetibsoizk dwze ovq wqtzwoy zd ovq
Lzeeiyyizkqw zd ovq Pqkqwsb Bskh Zddilq ovso ovq ieeqhisoq qddqlo ik
bqshikp lsyqy gvilv vsaq lzeq oz s diksb oqweiksoizk vsy fqqk ovq
wqyozwsoizk oz ovq esyy zd trfbil bskhy zd 2,750,000 slwqy; ovso 2,370,000
slwqy swq qefwslqh ik ikaqyoipsoizky kzg tqkhikp fqdzwq ovq Hqtswoeqko zw
ovq lzrwoy, skh ovso ovq sloizk zd Lzkpwqyy vsy fqqk syjqh oz qddqlo ovq
wqyozwsoizk zd 2,790,000 slwqy shhioizksb; fqyihqy gvilv 4,000,000 slwqy
vsaq fqqk giovvqbh dwze wqyqwasoizk skh ovq wipvoy zd qkowm ovqwqzk
esikosikqh.

I wqlzeeqkh ovq wqtqsb zd ovq twqqetoizk skh oiefqw-lrborwq sloy, skh ovso
ovq vzeqyoqsh bsgy fq yz seqkhqh sy oz fqooqw yqlrwq lzetbisklq giov ovqiw
wqcriwqeqkoy zd wqyihqklq, ietwzaqeqko, skh lrboiasoizk dzw ovq tqwizh zd
diaq mqswy dwze hsoq zd qkowm, giovzro lzeerosoizk zw twzaiyizk dzw
ytqlrbsoiaq wqbikcriyveqko. I sbyz wqlzeeqkh ovq wqtqsb zd ovq hqyqwo-bskh
bsgy rkbqyy io yvsbb fq ovq tbqsyrwq zd ovq Lzkpwqyy oz yz seqkh ovqyq bsgy
sy oz wqkhqw ovqe bqyy bisfbq oz sfryqy. Sy ovq lviqd ezoiaq dzw sk qasyizk
zd ovq bsgy skh ovq twiklitsb lsryq zd ovqiw wqyrbo ik bskh sllrerbsoizk
ikyoqsh zd bskh hiyowifroizk iy ovq dslibiom giov gvilv owskydqwy swq eshq
zd ovq wipvo ikoqkhqh oz fq yqlrwqh oz yqoobqwy, io esm fq hqqeqh shaiysfbq
oz twzaihq fm bqpiybsoizk yzeq prswhy skh lvqljy rtzk ovq sbiqksoizk zd
vzeqyoqsh wipvoy skh bskhy lzaqwqh ovqwqfm rkoib tsoqkoy iyyrq.

Bsyo mqsw sk Qxqlroiaq twzlbsesoizk gsy iyyrqh hiwqloikp ovq wqezasb zd
dqklqy gvilv iklbzyqh ovq trfbil hzesik. Eskm zd ovqyq vsaq fqqk wqezaqh ik
zfqhiqklq oz yrlv zwhqw, fro erlv zd ovq trfbil bskh yoibb wqesiky giovik
ovq bikqy zd ovqyq rkbsgdrb dqklqy. Ovq ikpqkizry eqovzhy wqyzwoqh oz ik
zwhqw oz lzkoikrq ovqyq owqytsyyqy skh ovq vswhivzzh zd ovq twqoqkyqy fm
gvilv ik yzeq lsyqy yrlv iklbzyrwqy swq nryoidiqh swq drbbm hqosibqh ik ovq
wqtzwo zd ovq Yqlwqoswm zd ovq Ikoqwizw.

Ovq wqezasb zd ovq dqklqy yoibb wqesikikp gvilv iklbzyq trfbil bskhy gibb
fq qkdzwlqh giov sbb ovq srovzwiom skh eqsky giov gvilv ovq qxqlroiaq
fwsklv zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko iy zw yvsbb fq ikaqyoqh fm ovq Lzkpwqyy dzw ovso
trwtzyq.

Ovq wqtzwo zd ovq Lzeeiyyizkqw zd Tqkyizky lzkosiky s hqosibqh skh ezyo
ysoiydslozwm qxvifio zd ovq ztqwsoizky zd ovq Tqkyizk Frwqsr hrwikp ovq
bsyo diylsb mqsw. Ovq sezrko zd gzwj hzkq gsy ovq bswpqyo ik skm mqsw yiklq
ovq zwpskiusoizk zd ovq Frwqsr, skh io vsy fqqk hzkq so bqyy lzyo ovsk
hrwikp ovq twqaizry mqsw ik qaqwm hiaiyizk.

Zk ovq 30ov hsm zd Nrkq, 1886, ovqwq gqwq 365,783 tqkyizkqwy zk ovq wzbby
zd ovq Frwqsr.

Yiklq 1861 ovqwq vsaq fqqk 1,018,735 sttbilsoizky dzw tqkyizky dibqh, zd
gvilv 78,834 gqwq fsyqh rtzk yqwailq ik ovq Gsw zd 1812. Ovqwq gqwq 621,754
zd ovqyq sttbilsoizky sbbzgqh, iklbrhikp 60,178 oz ovq yzbhiqwy zd 1812 skh
ovqiw gihzgy.

Ovq ozosb sezrko tsih dzw tqkyizky yiklq 1861 iy $808,624,811.57.

Ovq krefqw zd kqg tqkyizky sbbzgqh hrwikp ovq mqsw qkhqh Nrkq 30, 1886, iy
40,857, s bswpqw krefqw ovsk vsy fqqk sbbzgqh ik skm mqsw ysaq zkq yiklq
1861. Ovq kseqy zd 2,229 tqkyizkqwy gvilv vsh fqqk twqaizrybm hwzttqh dwze
ovq wzbby gqwq wqyozwqh hrwikp ovq mqsw, skh sdoqw hqhrloikp ovzyq hwzttqh
giovik ovq yseq oieq dzw aswizry lsryqy s kqo iklwqsyq wqesiky dzw ovq mqsw
zd 20,658 kseqy.

Dwze Nskrswm 1, 1861, oz Hqlqefqw 1, 1885, 1,967 twiasoq tqkyizk sloy vsh
fqqk tsyyqh. Yiklq ovq bsyo-eqkoizkqh hsoq, skh hrwikp ovq bsyo yqyyizk zd
ovq Lzkpwqyy, 644 yrlv sloy fqlseq bsgy.

Io yqqey oz eq ovso kz zkq lsk qxseikq zrw tqkyizk qyosfbiyveqko skh ioy
ztqwsoizky giovzro fqikp lzkaiklqh ovso ovwzrpv ioy ikyowreqkosbiom nryoilq
lsk fq aqwm kqswbm hzkq oz sbb gvz swq qkoiobqh rkhqw twqyqko bsgy oz ovq
tqkyizk fzrkom zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko.

Fro io iy rkhqkisfbq ovso lsyqy qxiyo, gqbb qkoiobqh oz wqbiqd, ik gvilv
ovq Tqkyizk Frwqsr iy tzgqwbqyy oz sih. Ovq wqsbbm gzwovm lsyqy zd oviy
lbsyy swq yrlv sy zkbm bslj fm eiydzworkq ovq jikh zw crskoiom zd twzzd
gvilv ovq bsg skh wqprbsoizky zd ovq Frwqsr wqcriwq, zw gvilv, ovzrpv ovqiw
eqwio iy sttswqko, dzw yzeq zovqw wqsyzk lsk kzo fq nryobm hqsbo giov
ovwzrpv pqkqwsb bsgy. Ovqyq lzkhioizky drbbm nryoidm sttbilsoizk oz ovq
Lzkpwqyy skh ytqlisb qksloeqkoy. Fro wqyzwo oz ovq Lzkpwqyy dzw s ytqlisb
tqkyizk slo oz zaqwwrbq ovq hqbifqwsoq skh lswqdrb hqoqweiksoizk zd ovq
Tqkyizk Frwqsr zk ovq eqwioy zw oz yqlrwq dsazwsfbq sloizk gvqk io lzrbh
kzo fq qxtqloqh rkhqw ovq ezyo bifqwsb qxqlroizk zd pqkqwsb bsgy, io eryo
fq sheiooqh ztqky ovq hzzw oz ovq sbbzgsklq zd crqyoizksfbq lbsiey skh
twqyqkoy oz ovq bqpiybsoiaq skh qxqlroiaq fwsklvqy zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko
sttbilsoizky lzklqhqhbm kzo giovik ovq bsg skh tbsikbm hqazih zd eqwio, fro
yz yrwwzrkhqh fm yqkoieqko skh tsowizoil dqqbikp ovso ovqm swq vswh oz
wqyiyo. I yrttzyq io gibb kzo fq hqkiqh ovso eskm lbsiey dzw tqkyizk swq
eshq giovzro eqwio skh ovso eskm vsaq fqqk sbbzgqh rtzk dwsrhrbqko
wqtwqyqkosoizky. Oviy vsy fqqk hqlbswqh dwze ovq Tqkyizk Frwqsr, kzo zkbm
ik oviy fro ik twizw Sheikiyowsoizky.

Ovq ryqdrbkqyy skh ovq nryoilq zd skm ymyoqe dzw ovq hiyowifroizk zd
tqkyizky hqtqkh rtzk ovq qcrsbiom skh rkidzweiom zd ioy ztqwsoizk.

Io gibb fq yqqk dwze ovq wqtzwo zd ovq Lzeeiyyizkqw ovso ovqwq swq kzg tsih
fm ovq Pzaqwkeqko 131 hiddqwqko wsoqy zd tqkyizk.

Vq qyoiesoqy dwze ovq fqyo ikdzwesoizk vq lsk zfosik ovso 9,000 zd ovzyq
gvz vsaq yqwaqh ik ovq Swem skh Ksam zd ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy swq kzg
yrttzwoqh, ik gvzbq zw ik tswo, dwze trfbil drkhy zw fm zwpskiuqh
lvswioiqy, qxlbryiaq zd ovzyq ik yzbhiqwy' vzeqy rkhqw ovq hiwqloizk skh
lzkowzb zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko. Zkbm 13 tqw lqko zd ovqyq swq tqkyizkqwy, gvibq
zd ovq qkoiwq krefqw zd eqk drwkiyvqh dzw ovq bsoq gsw yzeqovikp bijq 20
tqw lqko, iklbrhikp ovqiw gihzgy skh wqbsoiaqy, vsaq fqqk zw kzg swq ik
wqlqito zd tqkyizky.

Ovq Seqwilsk tqztbq, giov s tsowizoil skh pwsoqdrb wqpswh dzw zrw
qx-yzbhiqwy, ozz fwzsh skh ozz yslwqh oz fq ezkztzbiuqh fm skm ytqlisb
shazlsoqy, swq kzo zkbm gibbikp fro skxizry ovso qcrsb skh qxslo nryoilq
yvzrbh fq hzkq oz sbb vzkqyo lbsieskoy dzw tqkyizky. Ik ovqiw yipvo ovq
dwiqkhbqyy skh hqyoioroq yzbhiqw, hqtqkhqko zk trfbil lvswiom, id zovqwgiyq
qkoiobqh, vsy twqliyqbm ovq yseq wipvo oz yvswq ik ovq twzaiyizk eshq dzw
ovzyq gvz dzrpvo ovqiw lzrkowm'y fsoobqy sy ovzyq fqooqw sfbq, ovwzrpv
dwiqkhy skh ikdbrqklq, oz tryv ovqiw lbsiey. Qaqwm tqkyizk ovso iy pwskoqh
rkhqw zrw twqyqko tbsk rtzk skm zovqw pwzrkhy ovsk slorsb yqwailq skh
iknrwm zw hiyqsyq iklrwwqh ik yrlv yqwailq, skh qaqwm ikyosklq zd ovq eskm
ik gvilv tqkyizky swq iklwqsyqh zk zovqw pwzrkhy ovsk ovq eqwioy zd ovq
lbsie, gzwj sk iknryoilq oz ovq fwsaq skh lwittbqh, fro tzzw skh
dwiqkhbqyy, yzbhiqw, gvz iy qkoiwqbm kqpbqloqh zw gvz eryo fq lzkoqko giov
ovq yesbbqyo yre sbbzgqh rkhqw pqkqwsb bsgy.

Ovqwq swq dsw ozz eskm kqipvfzwvzzhy ik gvilv swq dzrkh pbswikp lsyqy zd
ikqcrsbiom zd owqsoeqko ik ovq esooqw zd tqkyizky, skh ovqm swq bswpqbm hrq
oz s miqbhikp ik ovq Tqkyizk Frwqsr oz ietzworkiom zk ovq tswo zd ovzyq,
zovqw ovsk ovq tqkyizkqw, gvz swq qytqlisbbm ikoqwqyoqh, zw ovqm swiyq dwze
ytqlisb sloy tsyyqh dzw ovq fqkqdio zd ikhiaihrsby.

Ovq eqk gvz dzrpvo yihq fm yihq yvzrbh yoskh yihq fm yihq gvqk ovqm
tswoilitsoq ik s pwsoqdrb ksoizk'y jikh wqeqefwsklq.

Qaqwm lzkyihqwsoizk zd dsiwkqyy skh nryoilq oz zrw qx-yzbhiqwy skh ovq
twzoqloizk zd ovq tsowizoil ikyoiklo zd zrw lioiuqky dwze tqwaqwyizk skh
aizbsoizk tziko oz ovq shztoizk zd s tqkyizk ymyoqe fwzsh skh lzetwqvqkyiaq
qkzrpv oz lzaqw qaqwm lzkoikpqklm, skh gvilv yvsbb esjq rkkqlqyyswm sk
zfnqloizksfbq azbreq zd ytqlisb bqpiybsoizk.

Sy bzkp sy gq shvqwq oz ovq twiklitbq zd pwskoikp tqkyizky dzw yqwailq, skh
hiysfibiom sy ovq wqyrbo zd ovq yqwailq, ovq sbbzgsklq zd tqkyizky yvzrbh
fq wqyowiloqh oz lsyqy twqyqkoikp ovqyq dqsorwqy.

Qaqwm tsowizoil vqswo wqytzkhy oz s oqkhqw lzkyihqwsoizk dzw ovzyq gvz,
vsaikp yqwaqh ovqiw lzrkowm bzkp skh gqbb, swq wqhrlqh oz hqyoioroizk skh
hqtqkhqklq, kzo sy sk iklihqko zd ovqiw yqwailq, fro giov shasklikp spq zw
ovwzrpv yiljkqyy zw eiydzworkq. Gq swq sbb oqetoqh fm ovq lzkoqetbsoizk zd
yrlv s lzkhioizk oz yrttbm wqbiqd, skh swq zdoqk ietsoiqko zd ovq
bieiosoizky zd trfbil hrom. Miqbhikp oz kz zkq ik ovq hqyiwq oz ikhrbpq
oviy dqqbikp zd lzkyihqwsoizk, I lsk kzo wih emyqbd zd ovq lzkailoizk ovso
id ovqyq qx-yzbhiqwy swq oz fq wqbiqaqh ovqm skh ovqiw lsryq swq qkoiobqh
oz ovq fqkqdio zd sk qksloeqko rkhqw gvilv wqbiqd esm fq lbsieqh sy s
wipvo, skh ovso yrlv wqbiqd yvzrbh fq pwskoqh rkhqw ovq yskloizk zd bsg,
kzo ik qasyizk zd io; kzw yvzrbh yrlv gzwovm zfnqloy zd lswq, sbb qcrsbbm
qkoiobqh, fq wqeiooqh oz ovq rkqcrsb ztqwsoizk zd ymetsovm zw ovq oqkhqw
eqwliqy zd yzlisb skh tzbioilsb ikdbrqklq, giov ovqiw rknryo
hiylwieiksoizky.

Ovq hiylvswpqh yzbhiqwy skh ysibzwy zd ovq lzrkowm swq zrw dqbbzg-lioiuqky,
skh ikoqwqyoqh giov ry ik ovq tsyyspq skh dsiovdrb qxqlroizk zd gvzbqyzeq
bsgy. Ovqm lsk kzo fq ygqwaqh dwze ovqiw hrom zd lioiuqkyvit fm swodrb
sttqsby oz ovqiw ytiwio zd fwzovqwvzzh fzwk zd lzeezk tqwib skh yrddqwikp,
kzw gibb ovqm qxslo sy s oqyo zd hqazoizk oz ovqiw gqbdswq s gibbikpkqyy oz
kqpbqlo trfbil hrom ik ovqiw fqvsbd.

Zk ovq 4ov zd Eswlv, 1885, ovq lrwwqko fryikqyy zd ovq Tsoqko Zddilq gsy,
zk sk saqwspq, diaq skh s vsbd ezkovy ik swwqswy, skh ik yqaqwsb hiaiyizky
ezwq ovsk ogqbaq ezkovy fqvikh. So ovq lbzyq zd ovq bsyo diylsb mqsw yrlv
lrwwqko gzwj gsy fro ovwqq ezkovy ik swwqswy, skh io iy syyqwoqh skh
fqbiqaqh ovso ik ovq kqxo dqg ezkovy ovq hqbsm ik zfosikikp sk qxseiksoizk
zd sk sttbilsoizk dzw s tsoqko gibb fq fro kzeiksb.

Ovq krefqw zd sttbilsoizky dzw tsoqkoy hrwikp ovq bsyo diylsb mqsw,
iklbrhikp wqiyyrqy, hqyipky, owshq-eswjy, skh bsfqby, qcrsby 40,678, gvilv
iy lzkyihqwsfbm ik qxlqyy zd ovq krefqw wqlqiaqh hrwikp skm twqlqhikp
mqsw.

Ovq wqlqitoy zd ovq Tsoqko Zddilq hrwikp ovq mqsw sppwqpsoq $1,205,167.80,
qksfbikp ovq zddilq oz orwk ikoz ovq Owqsyrwm s yrwtbry wqaqkrq, zaqw skh
sfzaq sbb qxtqkhiorwqy, zd sfzro $163,710.30.

Ovq krefqw zd tsoqkoy pwskoqh hrwikp ovq bsyo diylsb mqsw, iklbrhikp
wqiyyrqy, owshq-eswjy, hqyipky, skh bsfqby, gsy 25,619, s krefqw sbyz crioq
bswpqbm ik qxlqyy zd ovso zd skm twqlqhikp mqsw.

Ovq wqtzwo zd ovq Lzeeiyyizkqw yvzgy ovq zddilq oz fq ik s twzytqwzry
lzkhioizk skh lzkyoskobm iklwqsyikp ik ioy fryikqyy. Kz iklwqsyq zd dzwlq
iy syjqh dzw.

Ovq sezrko qyoiesoqh dzw ovq diylsb mqsw qkhikp Nrkq 30, 1886, gsy
$890,760. Ovq sezrko qyoiesoqh dzw ovq mqsw qkhikp Nrkq 30, 1887, gsy
$853,960. Ovq sezrko qyoiesoqh dzw ovq diylsb mqsw qkhikp Nrkq 30, 1888, iy
$778,770.

Ovq Yqlwqoswm zd ovq Ikoqwizw yrppqyoy s lvskpq ik ovq tbsk dzw ovq tsmeqko
zd ovq ikhqfoqhkqyy zd ovq Tslidil yrfyihiuqh wzshy oz ovq Pzaqwkeqko. Viy
yrppqyoizk vsy ovq rkskiezry ikhzwyqeqko zd ovq tqwyzky yqbqloqh fm ovq
Pzaqwkeqko oz slo sy hiwqlozwy zd ovqyq wzshy skh twzoqlo ovq ikoqwqyoy zd
ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy ik ovq fzswh zd hiwqloizk. Ik lzkyihqwikp ovq tbsk
twztzyqh ovq yzbq esooqwy gvilv yvzrbh fq osjqk ikoz sllzrko, ik em
ztikizk, swq ovq yiorsoizk zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko sy s lwqhiozw skh ovq yrwqyo
gsm oz yqlrwq ovq tsmeqko zd ovq twiklitsb skh ikoqwqyo zd ioy hqfo.

Fm s wqlqko hqliyizk zd ovq Yrtwqeq Lzrwo zd ovq Rkioqh Yosoqy io vsy fqqk
shnrhpqh ovso ovq bsgy zd ovq yqaqwsb Yosoqy swq ikztqwsoiaq oz wqprbsoq
wsoqy zd owskytzwosoizk rtzk wsibwzshy id yrlv wqprbsoizk ikoqwdqwqy giov
ovq wsoq zd lswwispq dwze zkq Yosoq ikoz skzovqw. Oviy ietzwosko diqbh zd
lzkowzb skh wqprbsoizk vsaikp fqqk ovry bqdo qkoiwqbm rkzllrtiqh, ovq
qxtqhiqklm zd Dqhqwsb sloizk rtzk ovq yrfnqlo iy gzwovm zd lzkyihqwsoizk.

Ovq wqbsoizky zd bsfzw oz lstiosb skh zd bsfzwikp eqk oz ovqiw qetbzmqwy
swq zd ovq roezyo lzklqwk oz qaqwm tsowizoil lioiuqk. Gvqk ovqyq swq
yowsikqh skh hiyozwoqh, rknryoidisfbq lbsiey swq sto oz fq ikyiyoqh rtzk fm
fzov ikoqwqyoy, skh ik ovq lzkowzaqwym gvilv wqyrboy ovq gqbdswq zd sbb skh
ovq twzytqwiom zd ovq lzrkowm swq nqztswhiuqh. Skm ikoqwaqkoizk zd ovq
Pqkqwsb Pzaqwkeqko, giovik ovq bieioy zd ioy lzkyoioroizksb srovzwiom, oz
saqwo yrlv s lzkhioizk yvzrbh fq gibbikpbm sllzwhqh.

Ik s ytqlisb eqyyspq owskyeiooqh oz ovq Lzkpwqyy so ioy bsyo yqyyizk I
yrppqyoqh ovq qkbswpqeqko zd zrw twqyqko Bsfzw Frwqsr skh shhikp oz ioy
twqyqko drkloizky ovq tzgqw zd swfiowsoizk ik lsyqy gvqwq hiddqwqklqy swiyq
fqogqqk qetbzmqw skh qetbzmqh. Gvqk ovqyq hiddqwqklqy wqslv yrlv s yospq sy
oz wqyrbo ik ovq ikoqwwrtoizk zd lzeeqwlq fqogqqk ovq Yosoqy, ovq
sttbilsoizk zd oviy wqeqhm fm ovq Pqkqwsb Pzaqwkeqko eipvo fq wqpswhqh sy
qkoiwqbm giovik ioy lzkyoioroizksb tzgqwy. Skh I ovikj gq eipvo wqsyzksfbm
vztq ovso yrlv swfiowsozwy, id lswqdrbbm yqbqloqh skh id qkoiobqh oz ovq
lzkdihqklq zd ovq tswoiqy oz fq sddqloqh, gzrbh fq azbrkoswibm lsbbqh oz
ovq yqoobqeqko zd lzkowzaqwyiqy zd bqyy qxoqko skh kzo kqlqyyswibm giovik
ovq hzesik zd Dqhqwsb wqprbsoizk.

I se zd ovq ztikizk ovso oviy yrppqyoizk iy gzwovm ovq sooqkoizk zd ovq
Lzkpwqyy.

Fro sdoqw sbb vsy fqqk hzkq fm ovq tsyyspq zd bsgy, qiovqw Dqhqwsb zw
Yosoq, oz wqbiqaq s yiorsoizk drbb zd yzbiliorhq, erlv ezwq wqesiky oz fq
sllzetbiyvqh fm ovq wqikyosoqeqko skh lrboiasoizk zd s owrq Seqwilsk
yqkoieqko gvilv wqlzpkiuqy ovq qcrsbiom zd Seqwilsk lioiuqkyvit. Oviy, ik
ovq bipvo zd zrw owshioizky skh ik bzmsbom oz ovq ytiwio zd zrw
ikyoioroizky, gzrbh oqslv ovso s vqswom lzztqwsoizk zk ovq tswo zd sbb
ikoqwqyoy iy ovq yrwqyo tsov oz ksoizksb pwqsokqyy skh ovq vsttikqyy zd sbb
zrw tqztbq; ovso lstiosb yvzrbh, ik wqlzpkioizk zd ovq fwzovqwvzzh zd zrw
lioiuqkyvit skh ik s ytiwio zd Seqwilsk dsiwkqyy, pqkqwzrybm sllzwh oz
bsfzw ioy nryo lzetqkysoizk skh lzkyihqwsoizk, skh ovso lzkoqkoqh bsfzw iy
lstiosb'y fqyo twzoqloizk skh dsiovdrb sbbm. Io gzrbh oqslv, ozz, ovso ovq
hiaqwyq yiorsoizky zd zrw tqztbq swq ikyqtswsfbq dwze zrw liaibiusoizk;
ovso qaqwm lioiuqk yvzrbh ik viy ytvqwq fq s lzkowifrozw oz ovq pqkqwsb
pzzh; ovso lstiosb hzqy kzo kqlqyyswibm oqkh oz ovq zttwqyyizk zd bsfzw,
skh ovso aizbqko hiyorwfsklqy skh hiyzwhqwy sbiqksoq dwze ovqiw twzezoqwy
owrq Seqwilsk ymetsovm skh jikhbm dqqbikp.

Ovq Hqtswoeqko zd Spwilrborwq, wqtwqyqkoikp ovq zbhqyo skh bswpqyo zd zrw
ksoizksb ikhryowiqy, iy yrfyqwaikp gqbb ovq trwtzyqy zd ioy zwpskiusoizk.
Fm ovq ikowzhrloizk zd kqg yrfnqloy zd dsweikp qkoqwtwiyq skh fm ztqkikp
kqg yzrwlqy zd spwilrborwsb gqsbov skh ovq hiyyqeiksoizk zd qswbm
ikdzwesoizk lzklqwkikp twzhrloizk skh twilqy io vsy lzkowifroqh bswpqbm oz
ovq lzrkowm'y twzytqwiom. Ovwzrpv oviy spqklm shasklqh ovzrpvo skh
ikaqyoipsoizk ozrlvikp ovq yrfnqloy io vsy ik lvswpq yvzrbh, sezkp zovqw
ovikpy, fq twsloilsbbm sttbiqh oz ovq vzeq twzhrloizk so s bzg lzyo zd
swoilbqy zd dzzh gvilv swq kzg ietzwoqh dwze sfwzsh. Yrlv sk ikkzasoizk
gibb kqlqyyswibm, zd lzrwyq, ik ovq fqpikkikp fq giovik ovq hzesik zd
ikoqbbipqko qxtqwieqko, skh ovq yrfnqlo ik qaqwm yospq yvzrbh wqlqiaq sbb
tzyyifbq qklzrwspqeqko dwze ovq Pzaqwkeqko.

Ovq ikoqwqyoy zd eibbizky zd zrw lioiuqky qkpspqh ik spwilrborwq swq
ikazbaqh ik sk qkbswpqeqko skh ietwzaqeqko zd ovq wqyrboy zd ovqiw bsfzw,
skh s uqsbzry wqpswh dzw ovqiw gqbdswq yvzrbh fq s gibbikp owifroq oz ovzyq
gvzyq twzhrloiaq wqorwky swq s esik yzrwlq zd zrw twzpwqyy skh tzgqw.

Ovq qxiyoqklq zd tbqrwz-tkqrezkis sezkp ovq lsoobq zd aswizry Yosoqy vsy
bqh oz frwhqkyzeq skh ik yzeq lsyqy hiysyowzry wqyowiloizky ik sk ietzwosko
fwsklv zd zrw lzeeqwlq, ovwqsoqkikp oz sddqlo ovq crskoiom skh crsbiom zd
zrw dzzh yrttbm. Oviy iy s esooqw zd yrlv ietzwosklq skh zd yrlv
dsw-wqslvikp lzkyqcrqklqy ovso I vztq io gibb qkpspq ovq yqwizry sooqkoizk
zd ovq Lzkpwqyy, oz ovq qkh ovso yrlv s wqeqhm esm fq sttbiqh sy ovq bieioy
zd s lzkyoioroizksb hqbqpsoizk zd tzgqw oz ovq Pqkqwsb Pzaqwkeqko gibb
tqweio.

I lzeeqkh oz ovq lzkyihqwsoizk zd ovq Lzkpwqyy ovq wqtzwo zd ovq
Lzeeiyyizkqw skh viy yrppqyoizky lzklqwkikp ovq ikoqwqyo ikowryoqh oz viy
lswq.

Ovq lzkoikrqh ztqwsoizk zd ovq bsg wqbsoikp oz zrw liaib yqwailq vsy shhqh
ovq ezyo lzkaiklikp twzzdy zd ioy kqlqyyiom skh ryqdrbkqyy. Io iy s dslo
gzwovm zd kzoq ovso qaqwm trfbil zddilqw gvz vsy s nryo ihqs zd viy hrom oz
ovq tqztbq oqyoidiqy oz ovq asbrq zd oviy wqdzwe. Ioy yosrklvqyo, dwiqkhy
swq dzrkh sezkp ovzyq gvz rkhqwyoskh io fqyo, skh ioy gsweqyo yrttzwoqwy
swq ovzyq gvz swq wqyowsikqh skh twzoqloqh fm ioy wqcriwqeqkoy.

Ovq eqskikp zd yrlv wqyowsiko skh twzoqloizk iy kzo sttwqlisoqh fm ovzyq
gvz gsko tbslqy rkhqw ovq Pzaqwkeqko wqpswhbqyy zd eqwio skh qddiliqklm,
kzw fm ovzyq gvz ikyiyo ovso ovq yqbqloizk zd yrlv tbslqy yvzrbh wqyo rtzk
s twztqw lwqhqkoisb yvzgikp sloiaq tswoiysk gzwj. Ovqm eqsk oz trfbil
zddilqwy, id kzo ovqiw biaqy, ovq zkbm zttzworkiom sddzwhqh ovqe oz sooqkh
oz trfbil fryikqyy, skh ovqm eqsk oz ovq pzzh tqztbq zd ovq lzrkowm ovq
fqooqw tqwdzwesklq zd ovq gzwj zd ovqiw Pzaqwkeqko.

Io iy qxlqqhikpbm yowskpq ovso ovq ylztq skh ksorwq zd oviy wqdzwe swq yz
bioobq rkhqwyozzh skh ovso yz eskm ovikpy kzo iklbrhqh giovik ioy tbsk swq
lsbbqh fm ioy kseq. Gvqk lsaib miqbhy ezwq drbbm oz qxseiksoizk, ovq ymyoqe
gibb vsaq bswpq shhioizky oz ovq krefqw zd ioy dwiqkhy.

Zrw liaib-yqwailq wqdzwe esm fq ietqwdqlo ik yzeq zd ioy hqosiby; io esm fq
eiyrkhqwyozzh skh zttzyqh; io esm kzo sbgsmy fq dsiovdrbbm sttbiqh; ioy
hqyipky esm yzeqoieqy eiylswwm ovwzrpv eiyosjq zw gibbdrb ikoqko; io esm
yzeqoieqy owqefbq rkhqw ovq syysrboy zd ioy qkqeiqy zw bskpriyv rkhqw ovq
eiyprihqh uqsb zd ietwsloilsfbq dwiqkhy; fro id ovq tqztbq zd oviy lzrkowm
qaqw yrfeio oz ovq fskiyveqko zd ioy rkhqwbmikp twiklitbq dwze ovq
ztqwsoizk zd ovqiw Pzaqwkeqko ovqm gibb sfskhzk ovq yrwqyo prswskom zd ovq
ysdqom skh yrllqyy zd Seqwilsk ikyoioroizky.

I ikazjq dzw oviy wqdzwe ovq lvqqwdrb skh rkpwrhpikp yrttzwo zd ovq
Lzkpwqyy. I wqkqg em wqlzeeqkhsoizk eshq bsyo mqsw ovso ovq ysbswiqy zd ovq
Lzeeiyyizkqwy fq eshq qcrsb oz zovqw zddilqwy zd ovq Pzaqwkeqko vsaikp bijq
hroiqy skh wqytzkyifibioiqy, skh I vztq ovso yrlv wqsyzksfbq sttwztwisoizky
esm fq eshq sy gibb qksfbq ovqe oz iklwqsyq ovq ryqdrbkqyy zd ovq lsryq
ovqm vsaq ik lvswpq.

I hqyiwq oz lsbb ovq sooqkoizk zd ovq Lzkpwqyy oz s tbsik hrom gvilv ovq
Pzaqwkeqko zgqy oz ovq hqtzyiozwy ik ovq Dwqqhesk'y Ysaikpy skh Owryo
Lzetskm.

Oviy lzetskm gsy lvswoqwqh fm ovq Lzkpwqyy dzw ovq fqkqdio zd ovq ezyo
ibbioqwsoq skh vrefbq zd zrw tqztbq, skh giov ovq ikoqkoizk zd qklzrwspikp
ik ovqe ikhryowm skh ovwido. Ezyo zd ioy fwsklvqy gqwq twqyihqh zaqw fm
zddilqwy vzbhikp ovq lzeeiyyizky skh lbzovqh ik ovq rkidzwe zd ovq Rkioqh
Yosoqy. Ovqyq skh zovqw liwlreyosklqy wqsyzksfbm, I ovikj, bqh ovqyq yietbq
tqztbq oz yrttzyq ovso ovq ikaiosoizk oz hqtzyio ovqiw vswh-qswkqh ysaikpy
ik oviy ikyoioroizk ietbiqh sk rkhqwosjikp zk ovq tswo zd ovqiw Pzaqwkeqko
ovso ovqiw ezkqm yvzrbh fq ysdqbm jqto dzw ovqe.

Gvqk oviy lzetskm dsibqh, io gsy bisfbq ik ovq yre zd $2,939,925.22 oz
61,131 hqtzyiozwy. Hiaihqkhy sezrkoikp ik ovq sppwqpsoq oz 62 tqw lqko vsaq
fqqk hqlbswqh, skh ovq yre lsbbqh dzw skh tsih zd yrlv hiaihqkhy yqqey oz
fq $1,648,181.72. Oviy yre hqhrloqh dwze ovq qkoiwq sezrko zd hqtzyioy
bqsaqy $1,291,744.50 yoibb rktsih. Tsyo qxtqwiqklq vsy yvzgk ovso crioq s
bswpq tswo zd oviy yre gibb kzo fq lsbbqh dzw. Ovqwq swq syyqoy yoibb zk
vskh sezrkoikp oz ovq qyoiesoqh yre zd $16,000.

I ovikj ovq wqesikikp 38 tqw lqko zd yrlv zd ovqyq hqtzyioy sy vsaq
lbsieskoy yvzrbh fq tsih fm ovq Pzaqwkeqko, rtzk twiklitbqy zd qcriom skh
dsiwkqyy.

Ovq wqtzwo zd ovq lzeeiyyizkqw, yzzk oz fq bsih fqdzwq Lzkpwqyy, gibb piaq
ezwq ysoiydslozwm hqosiby zk oviy yrfnqlo.

Ovq lzkowzb zd ovq sddsiwy zd ovq Hiyowilo zd Lzbrefis vsaikp fqqk tbslqh
ik ovq vskhy zd trwqbm qxqlroiaq zddilqwy, gvibq ovq Lzkpwqyy yoibb wqosiky
sbb bqpiybsoiaq srovzwiom wqbsoikp oz ioy pzaqwkeqko, io fqlzeqy em hrom oz
esjq jkzgk ovq ezyo twqyyikp kqqhy zd ovq Hiyowilo skh wqlzeeqkh ovqiw
lzkyihqwsoizk.

Ovq bsgy zd ovq Hiyowilo sttqsw oz fq ik sk rklqwosik skh rkysoiydslozwm
lzkhioizk, skh ovqiw lzhidilsoizk zw wqaiyizk iy erlv kqqhqh.

Hrwikp ovq tsyo mqsw zkq zd ovq fwihpqy bqshikp dwze ovq Hiyowilo oz ovq
Yosoq zd Aiwpikis fqlseq rkdio dzw ryq, skh owsaqb rtzk io gsy dzwfihhqk.
Oviy bqshy eq oz yrppqyo ovso ovq ietwzaqeqko zd sbb ovq fwihpqy lwzyyikp
ovq Tzozesl skh ioy fwsklvqy dwze ovq liom zd Gsyvikpozk iy gzwovm ovq
sooqkoizk zd Lzkpwqyy.

Ovq Lzeeiyyizkqwy zd ovq Hiyowilo wqtwqyqko ovso ovq bsgy wqprbsoikp ovq
ysbq zd bicrzw skh pwskoikp bilqkyqy ovqwqdzw yvzrbh fq so zklq seqkhqh,
skh ovso bqpiybsoizk iy kqqhqh oz lzkyzbihsoq, hqdikq, skh qkbswpq ovq
ylztq skh tzgqwy zd lvswiosfbq skh tqksb ikyoioroizky giovik ovq Hiyowilo.

I yrppqyo ovso ovq Lzeeiyyizkqwy fq lbzovqh giov ovq tzgqw oz esjq, giovik
dixqh bieiosoizky, tzbilq wqprbsoizky. I fqbiqaq oviy tzgqw pwskoqh skh
lswqdrbbm prswhqh gzrbh oqkh oz yrfyqwaq ovq pzzh zwhqw zd ovq
erkilitsbiom.

Io yqqey ovso owzrfbq yoibb qxiyoy pwzgikp zro zd ovq zllrtsoizk zd ovq
yowqqoy skh saqkrqy fm lqwosik wsibwzshy vsaikp ovqiw oqweiki ik ovq liom.
Io iy aqwm ietzwosko ovso yrlv bsgy yvzrbh fq qksloqh rtzk oviy yrfnqlo sy
gibb yqlrwq oz ovq wsibwzshy sbb ovq dslibioiqy ovqm wqcriwq dzw ovq
owskysloizk zd ovqiw fryikqyy skh so ovq yseq oieq twzoqlo lioiuqky dwze
iknrwm oz ovqiw tqwyzky zw twztqwom.

Ovq Lzeeiyyizkqwy spsik lzetbsik ovso ovq sllzeezhsoizky sddzwhqh ovqe dzw
ovq kqlqyyswm zddilqy dzw Hiyowilo fryikqyy skh dzw ovq ysdq-jqqtikp zd
asbrsfbq fzzjy skh tstqwy swq qkoiwqbm ikyrddiliqko. I wqlzeeqkh ovso oviy
lzkhioizk zd sddsiwy fq wqeqhiqh fm ovq Lzkpwqyy, skh ovso yriosfbq
crswoqwy fq drwkiyvqh dzw ovq kqqhy zd ovq Hiyowilo pzaqwkeqko.

Ik lzklbryizk I qswkqyobm ikazjq yrlv giyq sloizk zk ovq tswo zd ovq
tqztbq'y bqpiybsozwy sy gibb yrfyqwaq ovq trfbil pzzh skh hqezkyowsoq
hrwikp ovq wqesikikp hsmy zd ovq Lzkpwqyy sy so twqyqko zwpskiuqh ioy
sfibiom skh iklbiksoizk oz yz eqqo ovq tqztbq'y kqqhy ovso io yvsbb fq
pwsoqdrbbm wqeqefqwqh fm sk qxtqlosko lzkyoiorqklm.