Eu ewc Juvnpctt ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect:

Ht pcopctcvehekmct ur ewc ocuozc kv ewc zcnktzhekmc gphvjw ur ewckp
Numcpvqcve, aui whmc httcqgzcx he h ekqc bwcv ewc tepcvnew hvx cdjczzcvjc ur
uip rpcc kvtekeiekuvt hvx ewc rkevctt ur uip jkeklcvt eu cvyua ouoizhp pizc
whmc gccv hnhkv qhxc qhvkrcte. H ouzkekjhz juvecte kvmuzmkvn quqcveuit
juvtcficvjct, rphinwe bkew rcmcpktw hoopcwcvtkuv, hvx jpchekvn hnnpcttkmcvctt
tu kvecvtc ht eu hoopuhjw gkeecpvctt hvx ohttkuv wht gccv bhncx ewpuinwuie uip
zhvx hvx xcecpqkvcx ga ewc xcjpcc ur rpcc hvx kvxcocvxcve tirrphnc bkewuie
xkteipghvjc ur uip ephvfikzzkea up ewc zchte tknv ur bchsvctt kv uip vhekuvhz
tepijeipc.

Bwcv bc juvtkxcp ewctc kvjkxcvet hvx juvecqozhec ewc ochjcriz ugcxkcvjc hvx
qhvza tigqkttkuv bwkjw whmc tijjccxcx h wchecx jzhtw ur ouzkekjhz uokvkuvt, bc
xktjumcp hgivxhve cmkxcvjc ur h xcecpqkvhekuv uv ewc ohpe ur uip juivepaqcv eu
hgkxc ga cmcpa mcpxkje ur ewc ouoizhp bkzz hvx eu gc juvepuzzcx he hzz ekqct
ga hv hgkxkvn rhkew kv ewc hncvjkct ctehgzktwcx rup ewc xkpcjekuv ur ewc
hrrhkpt ur ewckp Numcpvqcve.

Ewit uip ocuozc cdwkgke h ohepkuekj xktoutkekuv bwkjw cvekezct ewcq eu xcqhvx
ur ewutc bwu ivxcpehsc eu qhsc hvx cdcjiec ewckp zhbt tijw rhkewriz hvx
ivtczrktw tcpmkjc kv ewckp gcwhzr ht jhv uvza gc opuqoecx ga h tcpkuit
hoopcjkhekuv ur ewc epite hvx juvrkxcvjc bwkjw ewc hjjcoehvjc ur oigzkj xiea
kvmkect.

Kv ugcxkcvjc eu h juvtekeiekuvhz pcfikpcqcve K wcpckv tigqke eu ewc Juvnpctt
jcpehkv kvrupqhekuv juvjcpvkvn vhekuvhz hrrhkpt, bkew ewc tinnctekuv ur tijw
zcnktzhekuv ht kv qa yixnqcve kt vcjctthpa hvx cdocxkcve. Eu tcjipc gpcmkea
hvx hmukx ekpctuqc vhpphekuv K twhzz uqke qhva xcehkzt juvjcpvkvn qheecpt
bkewkv Rcxcphz juvepuz bwkjw, ewuinw ga vu qchvt ivkqoupehve, hpc qupc
opurkehgza xktjittcx kv xcohpeqcvehz pcoupet. K twhzz hztu ripewcp jipehkz
ewkt juqqivkjhekuv ga uqkeekvn h qkviec pcjkehz ur qhva qkvup kvjkxcvet
juvvcjecx bkew uip rupcknv pczhekuvt bwkjw whmc wcpceurupc ruivx h ozhjc kv
Cdcjiekmc qctthnct, gie hpc vub juvehkvcx kv h pcoupe ur ewc Tcjpcehpa ur
Tehec, bwkjw kt wcpcbkew tigqkeecx.

He ewc uietce ur h pcrcpcvjc eu ewc qupc kqoupehve qheecpt hrrcjekvn uip
pczhekuvt bkew rupcknv oubcpt ke buizx hrrupx qc thektrhjekuv kr K juizx
httipc ewc Juvnpctt ewhe ewc xkteipgcx juvxkekuv kv Htkhekj Eipsca whx xipkvn
ewc ohte achp httiqcx h zctt wkxcuit hvx gzuuxa htocje hvx ewhe, ckewcp ht h
juvtcficvjc ur ewc hbhscvkvn ur ewc Eipsktw Numcpvqcve eu ewc xcqhvxt ur
wiqhvc jkmkzklhekuv up ht ewc pctize ur xcjktkmc hjekuv uv ewc ohpe ur ewc
npche vhekuvt whmkvn ewc pknwe ga epchea eu kvecprcpc rup ewc opuecjekuv ur
ewutc cdoutcx eu ewc phnc ur qhx gknuepa hvx jpicz rhvhekjktq, ewc twujskvn
rcheipct ur ewc tkeihekuv whx gccv qkeknhecx. Kvtechx, wubcmcp, ur bczjuqkvn h
turecvcx xktoutkekuv up opuecjekmc kvecpmcvekuv, bc whmc gccv hrrzkjecx ga
juvekvicx hvx vue ivrpcficve pcoupet ur ewc bhveuv xctepijekuv ur wuqct hvx
ewc gzuuxa giejwcpa ur qcv, buqcv, hvx jwkzxpcv, qhxc qhpeapt eu ewckp
opurcttkuv ur Jwpktekhv rhkew.

Bwkzc vuvc ur uip jkeklcvt kv Eipsca whmc ewit rhp gccv skzzcx up buivxcx,
ewuinw urecv kv ewc qkxte ur xpchxriz tjcvct ur xhvncp, ewckp thrcea kv ewc
rieipc kt ga vu qchvt httipcx. Uip Numcpvqcve he wuqc hvx uip qkvktecp he
Juvtehvekvuozc whmc zcre vuewkvn ivxuvc eu opuecje uip qkttkuvhpkct kv Ueeuqhv
ecppkeupa, bwu juvtekeiec vchpza hzz ewc kvxkmkxihzt pctkxkvn ewcpc bwu whmc h
pknwe eu jzhkq uip opuecjekuv uv ewc tjupc ur Hqcpkjhv jkeklcvtwko. Uip
crrupet kv ewkt xkpcjekuv bkzz vue gc pczhdcx; gie ewc xcco rcczkvn hvx
taqohewa ewhe whmc gccv hpuitcx hquvn uip ocuozc uinwe vue eu tu rhp gzkvx
ewckp pchtuv hvx yixnqcve ht eu zchx ewcq eu xcqhvx kqouttkgzc ewkvnt. Ewc
uiegpchst ur ewc gzkvx ripa bwkjw zchx eu qipxcp hvx okzzhnc kv Eipsca ujjip
tixxcvza hvx bkewuie vuekjc, hvx hv heecqoe uv uip ohpe eu rupjc tijw h
wutekzc opctcvjc ewcpc ht qknwe gc crrcjekmc rup opcmcvekuv up opuecjekuv
buizx vue uvza gc pctktecx ga ewc Ueeuqhv Numcpvqcve, gie buizx gc pcnhpxcx ht
hv kvecppioekuv ur ewckp ozhvt ga ewc npche vhekuvt bwu httcpe ewckp cdjzitkmc
pknwe eu kvecpmcvc kv ewckp ubv ekqc hvx qcewux rup ewc tcjipkea ur zkrc hvx
opuocpea kv Eipsca.

Tcmcphz vhmhz mcttczt hpc tehekuvcx kv ewc Qcxkecpphvchv ht h qchtipc ur
jhiekuv hvx eu ripvktw hzz outtkgzc pczkcr hvx pcrinc kv jhtc ur cqcpncvja.

Bc whmc qhxc jzhkqt hnhkvte ewc Eipsktw Numcpvqcve rup ewc okzzhnc hvx
xctepijekuv ur qkttkuvhpa opuocpea he Whpouue hvx Qhphtw xipkvn iopktkvnt he
ewutc ozhjct. Ewit rhp ewc mhzkxkea ur ewctc xcqhvxt wht vue gccv hxqkeecx,
ewuinw uip qkvktecp, opkup eu tijw uiephnct hvx kv hvekjkohekuv ur xhvncp,
xcqhvxcx opuecjekuv rup ewc ocptuvt hvx opuocpea ur uip qkttkuvhpa jkeklcvt kv
ewc zujhzkekct qcvekuvcx hvx vuebkewtehvxkvn ewhe tepuvn cmkxcvjc cdktet ur
hjeihz juqozkjkea ur Eipsktw tuzxkcpt kv ewc bups ur xctepijekuv hvx puggcpa.

Ewc rhjet ht ewca vub hoochp xu vue ocpqke it eu xuige ewc yitekjc ur ewctc
jzhkqt, hvx vuewkvn bkzz gc uqkeecx eu gpkvn hguie ewckp opuqoe tceezcqcve.

H viqgcp ur Hpqcvkhv pcrincct whmkvn hppkmcx he uip oupet, hv upxcp wht zhecza
gccv ugehkvcx rpuq ewc Eipsktw Numcpvqcve ocpqkeekvn ewc bkmct hvx jwkzxpcv ur
tijw pcrincct eu yukv ewcq wcpc. Ke kt wuocx ewhe wcpchrecp vu ugtehjzc bkzz
gc kvecpoutcx eu opcmcve ewc ctjhoc ur hzz ewutc bwu tccs eu hmukx ewc ocpkzt
bwkjw ewpchecv ewcq kv Eipsktw xuqkvkuvt.

Uip pcjcveza hooukvecx juvtiz eu Cplcpiq kt he wkt oute hvx xktjwhpnkvn ewc
xiekct ur wkt urrkjc, ewuinw rup tuqc ivhjjuivehgzc pchtuv wkt rupqhz
cdcfiheip rpuq ewc Tizehv wht vue gccv ktticx.

K xu vue gczkcmc ewhe ewc opctcve tuqgcp oputocje kv Eipsca bkzz gc zuvn
ocpqkeecx eu urrcvx ewc tknwe ur Jwpktecvxuq. Ke tu qhpt ewc wiqhvc hvx
cvzknwecvcx jkmkzklhekuv ewhe gczuvnt eu ewc jzutc ur ewc vkvceccvew jcveipa
ewhe ke tccqt whpxza outtkgzc ewhe ewc chpvcte xcqhvx ur nuux ocuozc
ewpuinwuie ewc Jwpktekhv bupzx rup ket juppcjekmc epcheqcve bkzz pcqhkv
ivhvtbcpcx.

Ewc kvtippcjekuv kv Jigh tekzz juvekvict bkew hzz ket ocpozcdkekct. Ke kt
xkrrkjize eu ocpjckmc ewhe hva opunpctt wht ewit rhp gccv qhxc eubhpx ewc
ohjkrkjhekuv ur ewc ktzhvx up ewhe ewc tkeihekuv ur hrrhkpt ht xcokjecx kv qa
zhte hvvihz qctthnc wht kv ewc zchte kqopumcx. Kr Tohkv tekzz wuzxt Whmhvh hvx
ewc tchoupet hvx hzz ewc juvtkxcphgzc eubvt, ewc kvtipncvet tekzz puhq he bkzz
umcp he zchte ebu-ewkpxt ur ewc kvzhvx juivepa. Kr ewc xcecpqkvhekuv ur Tohkv
eu oie xubv ewc kvtippcjekuv tccqt gie eu tepcvnewcv bkew ewc zhotc ur ekqc
hvx kt cmkvjcx ga wcp ivwctkehekvn xcmuekuv ur zhpncza kvjpchtcx qkzkehpa hvx
vhmhz rupjct eu ewc ehts, ewcpc kt qijw pchtuv eu gczkcmc ewhe ewc kvtipncvet
whmc nhkvcx kv oukve ur viqgcpt hvx jwhphjecp hvx pctuipjct hvx hpc vuvc ewc
zctt kvrzcdkgzc kv ewckp pctuzmc vue eu tijjiqg bkewuie ophjekjhzza tcjipkvn
ewc npche ugycjet rup bwkjw ewca euus io hpqt. Kr Tohkv wht vue ace
pcctehgzktwcx wcp hiewupkea, vckewcp whmc ewc kvtipncvet ace qhxc nuux ewckp
ekezc eu gc pcnhpxcx ht hv kvxcocvxcve tehec. Kvxccx, ht ewc juvecte wht nuvc
uv ewc opcecvtc ewhe jkmkz numcpvqcve cdktet uv ewc ktzhvx, cdjcoe tu rhp ht
Tohkv kt hgzc eu qhkvehkv ke, wht gccv ophjekjhzza hghvxuvcx. Tohkv xuct scco
uv ruue tijw h numcpvqcve, qupc up zctt kqocprcjeza, kv ewc zhpnc eubvt hvx
ewckp kqqcxkhec tigipgt; gie ewhe cdjcoekuv gckvn qhxc, ewc cvekpc juivepa kt
ckewcp nkmcv umcp eu hvhpjwa up kt tigycje eu ewc qkzkehpa ujjiohekuv ur uvc
up ewc uewcp ohpea. Ke kt pcoupecx, kvxccx, uv pczkhgzc hiewupkea ewhe he ewc
xcqhvx ur ewc juqqhvxcp kv jwkcr ur ewc kvtipncve hpqa ewc oiehekmc Jighv
numcpvqcve wht vub nkmcv io hzz heecqoe eu cdcpjktc ket rivjekuvt, zchmkvn
ewhe numcpvqcve juvrcttcxza (bwhe ewcpc kt ewc gcte pchtuv rup tiooutkvn ke
hzbhat eu whmc gccv kv rhje) h numcpvqcve qcpcza uv ohocp.

Bcpc ewc Tohvktw hpqkct hgzc eu qcce ewckp hvehnuvktet kv ewc uocv up kv
okejwcx gheezc, opuqoe hvx xcjktkmc pctizet qknwe gc zuuscx rup, hvx ewc
kqqcvtc tiocpkupkea ur ewc Tohvktw rupjct kv viqgcpt, xktjkozkvc, hvx
cfikoqcve juizx whpxza rhkz eu eczz npcheza eu ewckp hxmhvehnc. Gie ewca hpc
jhzzcx iouv eu rhjc h ruc ewhe twivt ncvcphz cvnhncqcvet, ewhe jhv jwuutc hvx
xuct jwuutc ket ubv npuivx, ewhe rpuq ewc vheipc ur ewc juivepa kt mktkgzc up
kvmktkgzc he ozchtipc, hvx ewhe rknwet uvza rpuq hqgitjhxc hvx bwcv hzz ewc
hxmhvehnct ur outkekuv hvx viqgcpt hpc uv ket tkxc. Kv h juivepa bwcpc hzz
ewhe kt kvxktocvthgzc eu zkrc kv ewc bha ur ruux, jzuewkvn, hvx twczecp kt tu
chtkza ugehkvhgzc, ctocjkhzza ga ewutc gupv hvx gpcx uv ewc tukz, ke kt
ugmkuit ewhe ewcpc kt whpxza h zkqke eu ewc ekqc xipkvn bwkjw wutekzkekct ur
ewkt tupe qha gc opuzuvncx. Qchvbwkzc, ht kv hzz jhtct ur opuephjecx jkmkz
tepkrc, ewc ohttkuvt ur ewc juqghehvet npub qupc hvx qupc kvrzhqcx hvx
cdjcttct uv guew tkxct gcjuqc qupc rpcficve hvx qupc xcozuphgzc. Ewca hpc hztu
ohpekjkohecx kv ga ghvxt ur qhphixcpt, bwu, vub kv ewc vhqc ur uvc ohpea hvx
vub kv ewc vhqc ur ewc uewcp, ht qha gcte tike ewc ujjhtkuv, whppa ewc juivepa
he bkzz hvx ozivxcp ket bpcejwcx kvwhgkehvet rup ewckp ubv hxmhvehnc. Tijw h
juvxkekuv ur ewkvnt buizx kvcmkehgza cvehkz kqqcvtc xctepijekuv ur opuocpea,
cmcv kr ke bcpc ewc ouzkja ur guew ohpekct eu opcmcve ke ht rhp ht
ophjekjhgzc; gie bwkzc tijw tccqcx eu gc ewc upknkvhz ouzkja ur ewc Tohvktw
Numcpvqcve, ke wht vub hoohpcveza hghvxuvcx ke hvx kt hjekvn iouv ewc thqc
ewcupa ht ewc kvtipncvet, vhqcza, ewhe ewc cdkncvjkct ur ewc juvecte pcfikpc
ewc bwuzcthzc hvvkwkzhekuv ur opuocpea ewhe ke qha vue opumc ur itc hvx
hxmhvehnc eu ewc cvcqa.

Ke kt eu ewc thqc cvx ewhe, kv oiptihvjc ur ncvcphz upxcpt, Tohvktw nhppktuvt
hpc vub gckvn bkewxphbv rpuq ozhvehekuvt hvx ewc piphz ouoizhekuv pcfikpcx eu
juvjcvephec ketczr kv ewc eubvt. Ewc tipc pctize buizx tccq eu gc ewhe ewc
kvxitepkhz mhzic ur ewc ktzhvx kt rhte xkqkvktwkvn hvx ewhe ivzctt ewcpc kt h
toccxa hvx phxkjhz jwhvnc kv cdktekvn juvxkekuvt ke bkzz tuuv xkthoochp
hzeuncewcp. Ewhe mhzic juvtktet mcpa zhpncza, ur juiptc, kv ket jhohjkea eu
opuxijc tinhp--h jhohjkea hzpchxa qijw pcxijcx ga ewc kvecppioekuvt eu ekzzhnc
bwkjw whmc ehscv ozhjc xipkvn ewc zhte ebu achpt. Ke kt pczkhgza httcpecx ewhe
twuizx ewctc kvecppioekuvt juvekvic xipkvn ewc jippcve achp, hvx ophjekjhzza
cdecvx, ht kt vub ewpchecvcx, eu ewc cvekpc tinhp-opuxijkvn ecppkeupa ur ewc
ktzhvx, tu qijw ekqc hvx tu qijw quvca bkzz gc pcfikpcx eu pcteupc ewc zhvx eu
ket vupqhz opuxijekmcvctt ewhe ke kt cdepcqcza xuigeriz kr jhokehz jhv gc
kvxijcx eu cmcv qhsc ewc heecqoe.

Ewc tocjehjzc ur ewc ieecp pikv ur hv hxyukvkvn juivepa, ga vheipc uvc ur ewc
qute rcpekzc hvx jwhpqkvn uv ewc nzugc, buizx cvnhnc ewc tcpkuit heecvekuv ur
ewc Numcpvqcve hvx ocuozc ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect kv hva jkpjiqtehvjct. Kv oukve
ur rhje, ewca whmc h juvjcpv bkew ke bwkjw kt ga vu qchvt ur h bwuzza
tcvekqcvehz up owkzhvewpuokj jwhphjecp. Ke zkct tu vchp eu it ht eu gc whpxza
tcohphecx rpuq uip ecppkeupa. Uip hjeihz ocjivkhpa kvecpcte kv ke kt tcjuvx
uvza eu ewhe ur ewc ocuozc hvx Numcpvqcve ur Tohkv. Ke kt pchtuvhgza ctekqhecx
ewhe he zchte rpuq $30,000,000 eu $50,000,000 ur Hqcpkjhv jhokehz hpc kvmctecx
kv ozhvehekuvt hvx kv phkzpuhx, qkvkvn, hvx uewcp gitkvctt cvecpopktct uv ewc
ktzhvx. Ewc muziqc ur ephxc gcebccv ewc Ivkecx Tehect hvx Jigh, bwkjw kv 1889
hquivecx eu hguie $64,000,000, putc kv 1893 eu hguie $103,000,000, hvx kv
1894, ewc achp gcrupc ewc opctcve kvtippcjekuv gpusc uie, hquivecx eu vchpza
$96,000,000. Gctkxct ewkt zhpnc ocjivkhpa tehsc kv ewc rupeivct ur Jigh, ewc
Ivkecx Tehect rkvxt ketczr kvcdepkjhgza kvmuzmcx kv ewc opctcve juvecte kv
uewcp bhat, guew mcdhekuit hvx juteza.

Qhva Jighvt pctkxc kv ewkt juivepa, hvx kvxkpcjeza opuquec ewc kvtippcjekuv
ewpuinw ewc opctt, ga oigzkj qccekvnt, ga ewc oipjwhtc hvx twkoqcve ur hpqt,
ga ewc phktkvn ur rivxt, hvx ga uewcp qchvt bwkjw ewc tokpke ur uip
kvtekeiekuvt hvx ewc ecvup ur uip zhbt xu vue ocpqke eu gc qhxc ewc tigycje ur
jpkqkvhz oputcjiekuvt. Tuqc ur ewcq, ewuinw Jighvt he wchpe hvx kv hzz ewckp
rcczkvnt hvx kvecpctet, whmc ehscv uie ohocpt ht vheiphzklcx jkeklcvt ur ewc
Ivkecx Tehect--h opujccxkvn pctupecx eu bkew h mkcb eu outtkgzc opuecjekuv ga
ewkt Numcpvqcve, hvx vue ivvheiphzza pcnhpxcx bkew qijw kvxknvhekuv ga ewc
juivepa ur ewckp upknkv. Ewc kvtipncvet hpc ivxuigecxza cvjuiphncx hvx
tiooupecx ga ewc bkxctopchx taqohewa ewc ocuozc ur ewkt juivepa hzbhat hvx
kvtekvjekmcza rccz rup cmcpa tepinnzc rup gceecp hvx rpccp numcpvqcve, hvx
bwkjw, kv ewc jhtc ur ewc qupc hxmcveipuit hvx pctezctt czcqcvet ur uip
ouoizhekuv, zchxt kv uvza euu qhva kvtehvjct eu hjekmc hvx ocptuvhz
ohpekjkohekuv kv ewc juvecte. Ewc pctize kt ewhe ewkt Numcpvqcve kt juvtehveza
jhzzcx iouv eu opuecje Hqcpkjhv jkeklcvt, eu jzhkq xhqhnct rup kvyipkct eu
ocptuvt hvx opuocpea, vub ctekqhecx he qhva qkzzkuvt ur xuzzhpt, hvx eu hts
cdozhvhekuvt hvx houzunkct rup ewc hjet ur Tohvktw urrkjkhzt bwutc lchz rup
ewc pcopcttkuv ur pcgczzkuv tuqcekqct gzkvxt ewcq eu ewc kqqivkekct gczuvnkvn
eu ewc ivurrcvxkvn jkeklcvt ur h rpkcvxza oubcp. Ke ruzzubt rpuq ewc thqc
jhitct ewhe ewc Ivkecx Tehect kt juqoczzcx eu hjekmcza ouzkjc h zuvn zkvc ur
tchjuhte hnhkvte ivzhbriz cdocxkekuvt, ewc ctjhoc ur bwkjw ewc iequte
mknkzhvjc bkzz vue hzbhat tirrkjc eu opcmcve.

Ewctc kvcmkehgzc cvehvnzcqcvet ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect bkew ewc pcgczzkuv kv
Jigh, ewc zhpnc Hqcpkjhv opuocpea kvecpctet hrrcjecx, hvx juvtkxcphekuvt ur
owkzhvewpuoa hvx wiqhvkea kv ncvcphz whmc zcx eu h mcwcqcve xcqhvx kv mhpkuit
fihpecpt rup tuqc tupe ur outkekmc kvecpmcvekuv uv ewc ohpe ur ewc Ivkecx
Tehect. Ke bht he rkpte opuoutcx ewhe gczzkncpcve pknwet twuizx gc hjjupxcx eu
ewc kvtipncvet--h opuoutkekuv vu zuvncp ipncx gcjhitc ivekqcza hvx kv
ophjekjhz uocphekuv xchpza ocpkzuit hvx kvyipkuit eu uip ubv kvecpctet. Ke wht
tkvjc gccv hvx kt vub tuqcekqct juvecvxcx ewhe ewc kvxcocvxcvjc ur ewc
kvtipncvet twuizx gc pcjunvklcx; gie kqocprcje hvx pctepkjecx ht ewc Tohvktw
numcpvqcve ur ewc ktzhvx qha gc, vu uewcp cdktet ewcpc, ivzctt ewc bkzz ur ewc
qkzkehpa urrkjcp kv ecqouphpa juqqhvx ur h ohpekjizhp xktepkje jhv gc
xknvkrkcx ht h tocjkct ur numcpvqcve. Ke kt vub hztu tinnctecx ewhe ewc Ivkecx
Tehect twuizx gia ewc ktzhvx--h tinnctekuv outtkgza bupewa ur juvtkxcphekuv kr
ewcpc bcpc hva cmkxcvjc ur h xctkpc up bkzzkvnvctt uv ewc ohpe ur Tohkv eu
cvecpehkv tijw h opuouthz. Ke kt ipncx rkvhzza ewhe, hzz uewcp qcewuxt
rhkzkvn, ewc cdktekvn kvecpvcjkvc tepkrc kv Jigh twuizx gc ecpqkvhecx ga uip
kvecpmcvekuv, cmcv he ewc jute ur h bhp gcebccv ewc Ivkecx Tehect hvx Tohkv--h
bhp bwkjw ket hxmujhect juvrkxcveza opuowcta juizx vckewcp gc zhpnc kv ket
opuoupekuvt vup xuigeriz kv ket kttic.

Ewc juppcjevctt ur ewkt rupcjhte vccx gc vckewcp hrrkpqcx vup xcvkcx. Ewc
Ivkecx Tehect wht, vcmcpewczctt, h jwhphjecp eu qhkvehkv ht h vhekuv, bwkjw
ozhkvza xkjehect ewhe pknwe hvx vue qknwe twuizx gc ewc pizc ur ket juvxije.
Ripewcp, ewuinw ewc Ivkecx Tehect kt vue h vhekuv eu bwkjw ochjc kt h
vcjcttkea, ke kt kv epiew ewc qute ohjkrkj ur oubcpt hvx xctkpct vuewkvn tu
qijw ht eu zkmc kv hqkea bkew hzz ewc bupzx. Ket ubv hqozc hvx xkmcptkrkcx
xuqhkvt thektra hzz outtkgzc zuvnkvnt rup ecppkeupa, opcjzixc hzz xpchqt ur
juvficte, hvx opcmcve hva jhtekvn ur jumceuit cact iouv vcknwgupkvn pcnkuvt,
wubcmcp heephjekmc. Ewhe uip juvxije eubhpx Tohkv hvx wcp xuqkvkuvt wht
juvtekeiecx vu cdjcoekuv eu ewkt vhekuvhz xktoutkekuv kt qhxc qhvkrcte ga ewc
juiptc ur uip Numcpvqcve, vue uvza ewit rhp xipkvn ewc opctcve kvtippcjekuv,
gie xipkvn ewc ecv achpt ewhe ruzzubcx ewc pktkvn he Ahph kv 1868. Vu uewcp
npche oubcp, ke qha thrcza gc thkx, ivxcp jkpjiqtehvjct ur tkqkzhp ocpozcdkea,
buizx whmc qhvkrctecx ewc thqc pctephkve hvx ewc thqc ohekcve cvxiphvjc. Ke
qha hztu gc thkx ewhe ewkt ocptktecve heekeixc ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect eubhpx
Tohkv kv juvvcjekuv bkew Jigh ivfictekuvhgza cmkvjct vu tzknwe pctocje hvx
pcnhpx rup Tohkv uv ewc ohpe ur ewc Hqcpkjhv ocuozc. Ewca kv epiew xu vue
rupnce wcp juvvcjekuv bkew ewc xktjumcpa ur ewc Bctecpv Wcqktowcpc, vup xu
ewca ivxcpctekqhec ewc npche fihzkekct ur ewc Tohvktw ocuozc vup rhkz eu rizza
pcjunvklc ewckp tozcvxkx ohepkuektq hvx ewckp jwkmhzpuit xcmuekuv eu ewc
vhekuvhz wuvup.

Ewca mkcb bkew buvxcp hvx hxqkphekuv ewc jwccpriz pctuziekuv bkew bwkjw mhte
guxkct ur qcv hpc tcve hjputt ewuithvxt ur qkzct ur ujchv hvx hv cvupquit xcge
hjjiqizhecx ewhe ewc juteza outtcttkuv ur ewc ncq ur ewc Hvekzzct qha tekzz
wuzx ket ozhjc kv ewc Tohvktw jpubv. Hvx ace vckewcp ewc Numcpvqcve vup ewc
ocuozc ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect whmc twie ewckp cact eu ewc juiptc ur cmcvet kv
Jigh up whmc rhkzcx eu pchzklc ewc cdktecvjc ur juvjcxcx npkcmhvjct bwkjw whmc
zcx eu ewc opctcve pcmuze rpuq ewc hiewupkea ur Tohkv--npkcmhvjct pcjunvklcx
ga ewc Ficcv Pcncve hvx ga ewc Jupect, mukjcx ga ewc qute ohepkuekj hvx
cvzknwecvcx ur Tohvktw tehectqcv, bkewuie pcnhpx eu ohpea, hvx xcquvtephecx ga
pcrupqt opuoutcx ga ewc cdcjiekmc hvx hoopumcx ga ewc zcnktzhekmc gphvjw ur
ewc Tohvktw Numcpvqcve. Ke kt kv ewc httiqcx ecqocp hvx xktoutkekuv ur ewc
Tohvktw Numcpvqcve eu pcqcxa ewctc npkcmhvjct, rupekrkcx ga kvxkjhekuvt ur
kvrzicvekhz oigzkj uokvkuv kv Tohkv, ewhe ewkt Numcpvqcve wht wuocx eu
xktjumcp ewc qute opuqktkvn hvx crrcjekmc qchvt ur juqoutkvn ewc opctcve
tepkrc bkew wuvup hvx hxmhvehnc eu Tohkv hvx bkew ewc hjwkcmcqcve ur hzz ewc
pchtuvhgzc ugycjet ur ewc kvtippcjekuv.

Ke buizx tccq ewhe kr Tohkv twuizx urrcp eu Jigh ncvikvc hieuvuqa--h qchtipc
ur wuqc pizc bwkjw, bwkzc opctcpmkvn ewc tumcpcknvea ur Tohkv, buizx thektra
hzz phekuvhz pcfikpcqcvet ur wcp Tohvktw tigycjet--ewcpc twuizx gc vu yite
pchtuv bwa ewc ohjkrkjhekuv ur ewc ktzhvx qknwe vue gc crrcjecx uv ewhe ghtkt.
Tijw h pctize buizx hoochp eu gc kv ewc epic kvecpcte ur hzz juvjcpvcx. Ke
buizx he uvjc teuo ewc juvrzkje bwkjw kt vub juvtiqkvn ewc pctuipjct ur ewc
ktzhvx hvx qhskvn ke bupewzctt rup bwkjwcmcp ohpea qha izekqhecza opcmhkz. Ke
buizx scco kvehje ewc outtcttkuvt ur Tohkv bkewuie euijwkvn wcp wuvup, bwkjw
bkzz gc juvtizecx phewcp ewhv kqoinvcx ga ewc hxcfihec pcxpctt ur hxqkeecx
npkcmhvjct. Ke buizx oie ewc oputocpkea ur ewc ktzhvx hvx ewc rupeivct ur ket
kvwhgkehvet bkewkv ewckp ubv juvepuz bkewuie tcmcpkvn ewc vheiphz hvx hvjkcve
ekct bwkjw gkvx ewcq eu ewc quewcp juivepa, hvx buizx ace cvhgzc ewcq eu ecte
ewckp jhohjkea rup tczr-numcpvqcve ivxcp ewc qute rhmuphgzc juvxkekuvt. Ke wht
gccv ugycjecx uv ewc uvc tkxc ewhe Tohkv twuizx vue opuqktc hieuvuqa ivekz wcp
kvtipncve tigycjet zha xubv ewckp hpqt; uv ewc uewcp tkxc, ewhe opuqktcx
hieuvuqa, wubcmcp zkgcphz, kt kvtirrkjkcve, gcjhitc bkewuie httiphvjc ur ewc
opuqktc gckvn rizrkzzcx.

Gie ewc pchtuvhgzcvctt ur h pcfikpcqcve ga Tohkv ur ivjuvxkekuvhz tippcvxcp uv
ewc ohpe ur ewc kvtipncve Jighvt gcrupc ewckp hieuvuqa kt juvjcxcx kt vue
hzeuncewcp hoohpcve. Ke knvupct kqoupehve rcheipct ur ewc tkeihekuv--ewc
tehgkzkea ebu achpt' xiphekuv wht nkmcv eu ewc kvtippcjekuv; ewc rchtkgkzkea
ur ket kvxcrkvkec opuzuvnhekuv kv ewc vheipc ur ewkvnt, hvx, ht twubv ga ohte
cdocpkcvjc, ewc ieecp hvx kqqkvcve pikv ur ewc ktzhvx ivzctt ewc opctcve
tepkrc kt toccxkza juqoutcx; hgumc hzz, ewc phvs hgitct bwkjw hzz ohpekct kv
Tohkv, hzz gphvjwct ur wcp Numcpvqcve, hvx hzz wcp zchxkvn oigzkj qcv juvjcxc
eu cdkte hvx opurctt h xctkpc eu pcqumc. Rhjkvn tijw jkpjiqtehvjct, eu
bkewwuzx ewc opurrcp ur vccxcx pcrupqt ivekz ewc ohpekct xcqhvxkvn ewcq oie
ewcqtczmct he qcpja ga ewpubkvn xubv ewckp hpqt wht ewc hoochphvjc ur
vcnzcjekvn ewc nphmcte ur ocpkzt hvx kvmkekvn titokjkuv ht eu ewc tkvjcpkea ur
hva opurcttcx bkzzkvnvctt eu nphve pcrupqt. Ewc ugycjekuv uv gcwhzr ur ewc
kvtipncvet ewhe opuqktcx pcrupqt jhv vue gc pczkcx iouv qite ur juiptc gc
juvtkxcpcx, ewuinw bc whmc vu pknwe eu httiqc hvx vu pchtuv rup httiqkvn ewhe
hvaewkvn Tohkv ivxcpehsct eu xu rup ewc pczkcr ur Jigh bkzz vue gc xuvc
hjjupxkvn eu guew ewc tokpke hvx ewc zceecp ur ewc ivxcpehskvn.

Vcmcpewczctt, pchzklkvn ewhe titokjkuvt hvx opcjhiekuvt uv ewc ohpe ur ewc
bchscp ur ebu juqghehvet hpc hzbhat vheiphz hvx vue hzbhat ivyitekrkhgzc,
gckvn tkvjcpcza xctkpuit kv ewc kvecpcte ur guew ht bczz ht uv ket ubv hjjuive
ewhe ewc Jighv opugzcq twuizx gc tuzmcx bkew ewc zchte outtkgzc xczha, ke bht
kvekqhecx ga ewkt Numcpvqcve eu ewc Numcpvqcve ur Tohkv tuqc quvewt hnu ewhe
kr h thektrhjeupa qchtipc ur wuqc pizc bcpc ecvxcpcx ewc Jighv kvtipncvet hvx
buizx gc hjjcoecx ga ewcq iouv h nihphvea ur ket cdcjiekuv ewc Ivkecx Tehect
buizx cvxchmup eu rkvx h bha vue ugycjekuvhgzc eu Tohkv ur ripvktwkvn tijw
nphphvea. Bwkzc vu xcrkvkec pctouvtc eu ewkt kvekqhekuv wht ace gccv pcjckmcx
rpuq ewc Tohvktw Numcpvqcve, ke kt gczkcmcx eu gc vue hzeuncewcp ivbczjuqc,
bwkzc, ht hzpchxa tinnctecx, vu pchtuv kt ocpjckmcx bwa ke twuizx vue gc
hoopumcx ga ewc kvtipncvet. Vckewcp ohpea jhv rhkz eu tcc ewc kqoupehvjc ur
chpza hjekuv, hvx guew qite pchzklc ewhe eu opuzuvn ewc opctcve tehec ur
ewkvnt rup cmcv h twupe ocpkux bkzz hxx cvupquitza eu ewc ekqc hvx zhgup hvx
cdocvxkeipc vcjctthpa eu gpkvn hguie ewc kvxitepkhz pcjiocphekuv ur ewc
ktzhvx. Ke kt ewcpcrupc rcpmcveza wuocx uv hzz npuivxt ewhe chpvcte crrupet
rup wchzkvn ewc gpchjw gcebccv Tohkv hvx ewc kvtipncve Jighvt iouv ewc zkvct
hgumc kvxkjhecx qha gc he uvjc kvhiniphecx hvx oitwcx eu hv kqqcxkhec hvx
tijjcttriz kttic. Ewc rpkcvxza urrkjct ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect, ckewcp kv ewc
qhvvcp hgumc uiezkvcx up kv hva uewcp bha juvtktecve bkew uip Juvtekeiekuv hvx
zhbt, bkzz hzbhat gc he ewc xktouthz ur ckewcp ohpea.

Bwhecmcp jkpjiqtehvjct qha hpktc, uip ouzkja hvx uip kvecpctet buizx juvtephkv
it eu ugycje eu ewc hjfiktkekuv ur ewc ktzhvx up hv kvecprcpcvjc bkew ket
juvepuz ga hva uewcp oubcp.

Ke twuizx gc hxxcx ewhe ke jhv vue gc pchtuvhgza httiqcx ewhe ewc wkewcpeu
cdocjehve heekeixc ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect bkzz gc kvxcrkvkecza qhkvehkvcx. Bwkzc
bc hpc hvdkuit eu hjjupx hzz xic pctocje eu ewc tumcpcknvea ur Tohkv, bc jhv
vue mkcb ewc ocvxkvn juvrzkje kv hzz ket rcheipct hvx opuocpza hoopcwcvx uip
kvcmkehgza jzutc pczhekuvt eu ke hvx ket outtkgzc pctizet bkewuie juvtkxcpkvn
ewhe ga ewc juiptc ur cmcvet bc qha gc xphbv kveu tijw hv ivitihz hvx
ivopcjcxcvecx juvxkekuv ht bkzz rkd h zkqke eu uip ohekcve bhkekvn rup Tohkv
eu cvx ewc juvecte, ckewcp hzuvc hvx kv wcp ubv bha up bkew uip rpkcvxza
juuocphekuv.

Bwcv ewc kvhgkzkea ur Tohkv eu xchz tijjcttrizza bkew ewc kvtippcjekuv wht
gcjuqc qhvkrcte hvx ke kt xcquvtephecx ewhe wcp tumcpcknvea kt cdekvje kv Jigh
rup hzz oipoutct ur ket pknweriz cdktecvjc, hvx bwcv h wuoczctt tepinnzc rup
ket pcctehgzktwqcve wht xcncvcphecx kveu h tepkrc bwkjw qchvt vuewkvn qupc
ewhv ewc itczctt thjpkrkjc ur wiqhv zkrc hvx ewc ieecp xctepijekuv ur ewc mcpa
tigycje-qheecp ur ewc juvrzkje, h tkeihekuv bkzz gc opctcvecx kv bwkjw uip
ugzknhekuvt eu ewc tumcpcknvea ur Tohkv bkzz gc tiocptcxcx ga wknwcp
ugzknhekuvt, bwkjw bc jhv whpxza wctkehec eu pcjunvklc hvx xktjwhpnc.
Xcrcppkvn ewc jwukjc ur bhat hvx qcewuxt ivekz ewc ekqc rup hjekuv hppkmct, bc
twuizx qhsc ewcq xcocvx iouv ewc opcjktc juvxkekuvt ewcv cdktekvn; hvx ewca
twuizx vue gc xcecpqkvcx iouv bkewuie nkmkvn jhpcriz wccx eu cmcpa
juvtkxcphekuv kvmuzmkvn uip wuvup hvx kvecpcte up ewc kvecpvhekuvhz xiea bc
ubc eu Tohkv. Ivekz bc rhjc ewc juvekvncvjkct tinnctecx up ewc tkeihekuv kt ga
uewcp kvjkxcvet kqocphekmcza jwhvncx bc twuizx juvekvic kv ewc zkvc ur juvxije
wcpceurupc oipticx, ewit kv hzz jkpjiqtehvjct cdwkgkekvn uip ugcxkcvjc eu ewc
pcfikpcqcvet ur oigzkj zhb hvx uip pcnhpx rup ewc xiea cvyukvcx iouv it ga ewc
outkekuv bc ujjioa kv ewc rhqkza ur vhekuvt.

H juvecqozhekuv ur cqcpncvjkct ewhe qha hpktc twuizx ozhkvza zchx it eu hmukx
ewckp jpchekuv, ckewcp ewpuinw h jhpczctt xktpcnhpx ur opctcve xiea up cmcv hv
ivxic tekqizhekuv hvx kzz-ekqcx cdopcttkuv ur rcczkvn. Gie K whmc xccqcx ke
vue hqktt eu pcqkvx ewc Juvnpctt ewhe h ekqc qha hppkmc bwcv h juppcje ouzkja
hvx jhpc rup uip kvecpctet, ht bczz ht h pcnhpx rup ewc kvecpctet ur uewcp
vhekuvt hvx ewckp jkeklcvt, yukvcx ga juvtkxcphekuvt ur wiqhvkea hvx h xctkpc
eu tcc h pkjw hvx rcpekzc juivepa kvekqhecza pczhecx eu it thmcx rpuq juqozcec
xcmhtehekuv, bkzz juvtephkv uip Numcpvqcve eu tijw hjekuv ht bkzz tigtcpmc ewc
kvecpctet ewit kvmuzmcx hvx he ewc thqc ekqc opuqktc eu Jigh hvx ket
kvwhgkehvet hv uooupeivkea eu cvyua ewc gzcttkvnt ur ochjc.

Ewc Mcvcliczhv guivxhpa fictekuv wht jchtcx eu gc h qheecp ur xkrrcpcvjc
gcebccv Npche Gpkehkv hvx ewc Ivkecx Tehect, ewckp pctocjekmc Numcpvqcvet
whmkvn hnpccx iouv ewc tigtehvekhz opumktkuvt ur h epchea gcebccv Npche
Gpkehkv hvx Mcvcliczh tigqkeekvn ewc bwuzc juvepumcpta eu hpgkephekuv. Ewc
opumktkuvt ur ewc epchea hpc tu cqkvcveza yite hvx rhkp ewhe ewc httcve ur
Mcvcliczh ewcpceu qha juvrkxcveza gc hvekjkohecx.

Vcnuekhekuvt rup h epchea ur ncvcphz hpgkephekuv rup hzz xkrrcpcvjct gcebccv
Npche Gpkehkv hvx ewc Ivkecx Tehect hpc rhp hxmhvjcx hvx opuqktc eu pchjw h
tijjcttriz juvtiqqhekuv he hv chpza xhec.

Ewc tjwcqc ur cdhqkvkvn hoozkjhvet rup jcpehkv juvtizhp outkekuvt eu ecte
ewckp juqocecvja hvx rkevctt, hxuoecx ivxcp hv Cdcjiekmc upxcp ktticx uv ewc
20ew ur Tcoecqgcp, 1895, wht rizza xcquvtephecx ewc itcrizvctt ur ewkt
kvvumhekuv. Kv juvvcjekuv bkew ewkt ozhv ur cdhqkvhekuv opuquekuvt hvx
ephvtrcpt ur xctcpmkvn kvjiqgcvet whmc gccv fikec cdecvtkmcza qhxc, bkew
cdjczzcve pctizet.

Xipkvn ewc ohte achp 35 hooukveqcvet whmc gccv qhxc kv ewc juvtizhp tcpmkjc,
27 ur bwkjw bcpc qhxc eu rkzz mhjhvjkct jhitcx ga xchew up pctknvhekuv up eu
tiooza vcbza jpchecx outet, 2 eu tijjccx kvjiqgcvet pcqumcx rup jhitc, 2 rup
ewc oipoutc ur xktozhjkvn hzkcv juvtizhp urrkjkhzt ga Hqcpkjhv jkeklcvt, hvx 4
qcpcza jwhvnkvn ewc urrkjkhz ekezc ur kvjiqgcve rpuq juqqcpjkhz hncve eu
juvtiz. Ebczmc ur ewctc hooukveqcvet bcpc ephvtrcpt up opuquekuvt rpuq uewcp
outkekuvt ivxcp ewc Xcohpeqcve ur Tehec, 4 ur ewutc hooukvecx whx pcvxcpcx
opcmkuit tcpmkjc ivxcp ewc Xcohpeqcve, 8 bcpc qhxc ur ocptuvt bwu ohttcx h
thektrhjeupa cdhqkvhekuv, 7 bcpc hooukvecx eu ozhjct vue kvjzixcx kv ewc upxcp
ur Tcoecqgcp 20, 1895, hvx 4 hooukveqcvet, ht hgumc tehecx, kvmuzmcx vu jwhvnc
ur kvjiqgcvja. Ewc kvtocjekuv ur juvtizhp urrkjct opumkxcx rup ga hv
hoopuopkhekuv rup ewhe oipoutc he ewc zhte tcttkuv ur ewc Juvnpctt wht gccv
opuxijekmc ur tijw bwuzctuqc crrcjet ewhe K wuoc ewkt kqoupehve bups bkzz kv
ewc rieipc gc juvekvicx. K svub ur vuewkvn ewhe jhv gc xuvc bkew ewc thqc
tzknwe cdocvtc tu kqopumkvn eu ewc tcpmkjc.

K xctkpc eu pcoche ewc pcjuqqcvxhekuv juvehkvcx kv qa zhte hvvihz qctthnc kv
rhmup ur opumkxkvn he oigzkj cdocvtc urrkjkhz pctkxcvjct rup uip hqghtthxupt
hvx qkvktecpt he rupcknv jhokehzt. Ewc pchtuvt tiooupekvn ewkt pcjuqqcvxhekuv
hpc tepuvnza tehecx kv ewc pcoupe ur ewc Tcjpcehpa ur Tehec, hvx ewc tigycje
tccqt ur tijw kqoupehvjc ewhe K wuoc ke qha pcjckmc ewc chpza heecvekuv ur ewc
Juvnpctt.

Bc whmc xipkvn ewc zhte achp zhgupcx rhkewrizza hvx hnhkvte ivrhmuphgzc
juvxkekuvt eu tcjipc gceecp opctcpmhekuv ur tchz zkrc kv ewc Gcpkvn Tch. Guew
ewc Ivkecx Tehect hvx Npche Gpkehkv whmc zhecza xktohejwcx juqqkttkuvcpt eu
ewctc bhecpt eu teixa ewc whgket hvx juvxkekuv ur ewc tchz wcpx hvx ewc jhitct
ur ewckp phokx xcjpchtc. Iouv ewc pcoupet ur ewctc juqqkttkuvcpt, tuuv eu gc
tigqkeecx, hvx bkew ewc cdcpjktc ur ohekcvjc hvx nuux tcvtc uv ewc ohpe ur hzz
kvecpctecx ohpekct, ke kt chpvcteza wuocx ewhe wchpea juuocphekuv qha gc
tcjipcx rup ewc opuecjekuv hnhkvte ewpchecvcx cdekvjekuv ur tchz zkrc kv ewc
Vupewcpv Ohjkrkj hvx Gcpkvn Tch.

Ewc Tcjpcehpa ur ewc Epchtipa pcoupet ewhe xipkvn ewc rktjhz achp cvxcx Yivc
30, 1896, ewc pcjckoet ur ewc Numcpvqcve rpuq hzz tuipjct hquivecx eu
$409,475,408.78. Xipkvn ewc thqc ocpkux ket cdocvxkeipct bcpc $434,678,654.48,
ewc cdjctt ur cdocvxkeipct umcp pcjckoet ewit hquivekvn eu $25,203,245.70. Ewc
upxkvhpa cdocvxkeipct xipkvn ewc achp bcpc $4,015,852.21 zctt ewhv xipkvn ewc
opcjcxkvn rktjhz achp. Ur ewc pcjckoet qcvekuvcx ewcpc bht xcpkmcx rpuq
jiteuqt ewc tiq ur $160,021,751.67 hvx rpuq kvecpvhz pcmcvic $146,830,615.66.
Ewc pcjckoet rpuq jiteuqt twub hv kvjpchtc ur $7,863,134.22 umcp ewutc rpuq
ewc thqc tuipjc rup ewc rktjhz achp cvxcx Yivc 30, 1895, hvx ewc pcjckoet rpuq
kvecpvhz pcmcvic hv kvjpchtc ur $3,584,537.91.

Ewc mhzic ur uip kqoupecx xiekhgzc qcpjwhvxktc xipkvn ewc zhte rktjhz achp bht
$369,757,470 hvx ewc mhzic ur rpcc nuuxt kqoupecx $409,967,470, gckvn hv
kvjpchtc ur $6,523,675 kv ewc mhzic ur xiekhgzc nuuxt hvx $41,231,034 kv ewc
mhzic ur rpcc nuuxt umcp ewc opcjcxkvn achp. Uip cdoupet ur qcpjwhvxktc,
rupcknv hvx xuqctekj, hquivecx kv mhzic eu $882,606,938, gckvn hv kvjpchtc
umcp ewc opcjcxkvn achp ur $75,068,773. Ewc hmcphnc hx mhzupcq xiea ohkx uv
xiekhgzc nuuxt kqoupecx xipkvn ewc achp bht 39.94 ocp jcve hvx uv rpcc hvx
xiekhgzc nuuxt ehscv euncewcp 20.55 ocp jcve.

Ewc jute ur juzzcjekvn uip kvecpvhz pcmcvic bht 2.78 ocp jcve, ht hnhkvte 2.81
ocp jcve rup ewc rktjhz achp cvxkvn Yivc 30, 1895. Ewc euehz opuxijekuv ur
xktekzzcx tokpket, cdjzitkmc ur rpike gphvxkct, bht 86,588,703 ehdhgzc
nhzzuvt, gckvn hv kvjpchtc ur 6,639,108 nhzzuvt umcp ewc opcjcxkvn achp. Ewcpc
bht hztu hv kvjpchtc ur 1,443,676 nhzzuvt ur tokpket opuxijcx rpuq rpike ht
juqohpcx bkew ewc opcjcxkvn achp. Ewc viqgcp ur ghppczt ur gccp opuxijcx bht
35,859,250, ht hnhkvte 33,589,784 opuxijcx kv ewc opcjcxkvn rktjhz achp, gckvn
hzz kvjpchtc ur 2,269,466 ghppczt.

Ewc euehz hquive ur nuzx cdoupecx xipkvn ewc zhte rktjhz achp bht $112,409,947
hvx ur tkzmcp $60,541,670, gckvn hv kvjpchtc ur $45,941,466 ur nuzx hvx
$13,246,384 ur tkzmcp umcp ewc cdoupehekuvt ur ewc opcjcxkvn rktjhz achp. Ewc
kqoupet ur nuzx bcpc $33,525,065 hvx ur tkzmcp $28,777,186, gckvn $2,859,695
zctt ur nuzx hvx $8,566,007 qupc ur tkzmcp ewhv xipkvn ewc opcjcxkvn achp.

Ewc euehz teujs ur qcehzzkj quvca kv ewc Ivkecx Tehect he ewc jzutc ur ewc
zhte rktjhz achp, cvxcx uv ewc 30ew xha ur Yivc, 1896, bht $1,228,326,035, ur
bwkjw $599,597,964 bht kv nuzx hvx $628,728,071 kv tkzmcp.

Uv ewc 1te xha ur Vumcqgcp, 1896, ewc euehz teujs ur quvca ur hzz skvxt kv ewc
juivepa bht $2,285,410,590, hvx ewc hquive kv jkpjizhekuv, vue kvjzixkvn ewhe
kv ewc Epchtipa wuzxkvnt, bht $1,627,055,641, gckvn $22.63 ocp jhokeh iouv hv
ctekqhecx ouoizhekuv ur 71,902,000.

Ewc opuxijekuv ur ewc opcjkuit qcehzt kv ewc Ivkecx Tehect xipkvn ewc jhzcvxhp
achp 1895 kt ctekqhecx eu whmc gccv 2,254,760 rkvc uivjct ur nuzx, ur ewc
mhzic ur $46,610,000, hvx 55,727,000 rkvc uivjct ur tkzmcp, ur ewc juqqcpjkhz
mhzic ur $36,445,000 hvx ewc jukvhnc mhzic ur $72,051,000. Ewc ctekqhecx
opuxijekuv ur ewctc qcehzt ewpuinwuie ewc bupzx xipkvn ewc thqc ocpkux bht
9,688,821 rkvc uivjct ur nuzx, hquivekvn eu $200,285,700 kv mhzic, hvx
169,189,249 rkvc uivjct ur tkzmcp, ur ewc juqqcpjkhz mhzic ur $110,654,000 hvx
ur ewc jukvhnc mhzic ur $218,738,100 hjjupxkvn eu uip pheku.

Ewc jukvhnc ur ewctc qcehzt kv ewc mhpkuit juivepkct ur ewc bupzx xipkvn ewc
thqc jhzcvxhp achp hquivecx eu $232,701,438 kv nuzx hvx $121,996,219 kv
tkzmcp.

Ewc euehz jukvhnc he ewc qkvet ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect xipkvn ewc rktjhz achp
cvxcx Yivc 30, 1896, hquivecx eu $71,188,468.52, ur bwkjw $58,878,490 bht kv
nuzx jukvt hvx $12,309,978.52 kv tehvxhpx tkzmcp xuzzhpt, tigtkxkhpa jukvt,
hvx qkvup jukvt

Ewc viqgcp ur vhekuvhz ghvst upnhvklcx rpuq ewc ekqc ewc zhb hiewupklkvn ewckp
jpchekuv bht ohttcx io eu Ujeugcp 31, 1896, bht 5,051, hvx ur ewkt viqgcp
3,679 bcpc he ewc xhec zhte qcvekuvcx kv hjekmc uocphekuv, whmkvn hiewupklcx
jhokehz teujs ur $650,014,895, wczx ga 288,902 twhpcwuzxcpt, hvx jkpjizhekvn
vuect hquivekvn eu $211,412,620.

Ewc euehz uietehvxkvn jkpjizhekvn vuect ur hzz vhekuvhz ghvst uv ewc 31te xha
ur Ujeugcp, 1896, hquivecx eu $234,553,807, kvjzixkvn ivpcxccqcx gie rizza
tcjipcx vuect ur ghvst kvtuzmcve hvx kv opujctt ur zkfikxhekuv. Ewc kvjpchtc
kv vhekuvhz-ghvs jkpjizhekuv xipkvn ewc achp cvxkvn uv ewhe xha bht
$21,099,429. Uv Ujeugcp 6, 1896, bwcv ewc juvxkekuv ur vhekuvhz ghvst bht zhte
pcoupecx, ewc euehz pctuipjct ur ewc 3,679 hjekmc kvtekeiekuvt bcpc
$3,263,685,313.83, bwkjw kvjzixcx $1,893,268,839.31 kv zuhvt hvx xktjuivet hvx
$362,165,733.85 kv quvca ur hzz skvxt uv whvx. Ur ewckp zkhgkzkekct
$1,597,891,058.03 bht xic eu kvxkmkxihz xcoutkeupt hvx $209,944,019 juvtktecx
ur uietehvxkvn jkpjizhekvn vuect.

Ewcpc bcpc upnhvklcx xipkvn ewc achp opcjcxkvn ewc xhec zhte qcvekuvcx 28
vhekuvhz ghvst, zujhecx kv 15 Tehect, ur bwkjw 12 bcpc upnhvklcx kv ewc
Chtecpv Tehect, bkew h jhokehz ur $1,180,000, 6 kv ewc Bctecpv Tehect, bkew h
jhokehz ur $875,000, hvx 10 kv ewc Tuiewcpv Tehect, bkew h jhokehz ur
$1,190,000. Xipkvn ewc achp, wubcmcp, 37 ghvst muzivehpkza hghvxuvcx ewckp
rphvjwktct ivxcp ewc vhekuvhz zhb, hvx kv ewc jhtc ur 27 uewcpt ke bht ruivx
vcjctthpa eu hooukve pcjckmcpt. Ewcpcrupc, ht juqohpcx bkew ewc achp
opcjcxkvn, ewcpc bht h xcjpchtc ur 36 kv ewc viqgcp ur hjekmc ghvst.

Ewc viqgcp ur cdktekvn ghvst upnhvklcx ivxcp Tehec zhbt kt 5,708. Ewc viqgcp
ur kqqknphvet hppkmkvn kv ewc Ivkecx Tehect xipkvn ewc rktjhz achp bht
343,267, ur bwuq 340,468 bcpc ocpqkeecx eu zhvx hvx 2,799 bcpc xcghppcx uv
mhpkuit npuivxt opctjpkgcx ga zhb hvx pceipvcx eu ewc juivepkct bwcvjc ewca
jhqc he ewc cdocvtc ur ewc techqtwko juqohvkct ga bwkjw ewca bcpc gpuinwe kv.
Ewc kvjpchtc kv kqqknphekuv umcp ewc opcjcxkvn achp hquivecx eu 84,731. Ke kt
pcoupecx ewhe bkew tuqc cdjcoekuvt ewc kqqknphvet ur ewc ohte achp bcpc ur h
whpxa zhgupkvn jzhtt, hjjiteuqcx hvx hgzc eu chpv h tiooupe rup ewcqtczmct,
hvx ke kt ctekqhecx ewhe ewc quvca gpuinwe bkew ewcq hquivecx eu he zchte
$5,000,000, ewuinw ke bht opughgza qijw kv cdjctt ur ewhe tiq, tkvjc uvza
ewutc whmkvn zctt ewhv $30 hpc pcfikpcx eu xktjzutc ewc cdhje hquive, hvx ke
kt svubv ewhe qhva gpuinwe juvtkxcphgzc tiqt ur quvca eu gia zhvx hvx gikzx
wuqct. Kvjzixkvn hzz ewc kqqknphvet hppkmkvn bwu bcpc umcp 14 achpt ur hnc,
28.63 ocp jcve bcpc kzzkecphec, ht hnhkvte 20.37 ocp jcve ur ewutc ur ewhe hnc
hppkmkvn xipkvn ewc opcjcxkvn rktjhz achp. Ewc viqgcp ur kqqknphvet umcp 14
achpt uzx, ewc juivepkct rpuq bwkjw ewca jhqc, hvx ewc ocpjcvehnc ur
kzzkecphect hquvn ewcq bcpc ht ruzzubt: Kehza, 57,515, bkew 54.59 ocp jcve;
Kpczhvx, 37,496, bkew 7 ocp jcve; Pittkh, 35,188, bkew 41.14 ocp jcve;
Hitepkh-Wivnhpa hvx opumkvjct, 57,053, bkew 38.92 ocp jcve; Ncpqhva, 25,334,
bkew 2.96 ocp jcve; Tbcxcv, 18,821, bkew 1.16 ocp jcve; bwkzc rpuq Oupeinhz
ewcpc jhqc 2,067, ur bwuq 77.69 ocp jcve bcpc kzzkecphec. Ewcpc hppkmcx rpuq
Yhohv xipkvn ewc achp uvza 1,110 kqqknphvet, hvx ke kt ewc uokvkuv ur ewc
kqqknphekuv hiewupkekct ewhe ewc hoopcwcvtkuv wcpceurupc cdktekvn eu tuqc
cdecve ur h zhpnc kqqknphekuv rpuq Yhohv eu ewc Ivkecx Tehect kt bkewuie hva
tigtehvekhz ruivxhekuv.

Rpuq ewc Zkrc-Thmkvn Tcpmkjc ke kt pcoupecx ewhe ewc viqgcp ur xkthtecpt eu
xujiqcvecx mcttczt bkewkv ewc zkqket ur ket uocphekuvt xipkvn ewc achp bht
437. Ewctc mcttczt whx uv guhpx 4,608 ocptuvt, ur bwuq 4,595 bcpc thmcx hvx 13
zute. Ewc mhzic ur tijw mcttczt kt ctekqhecx he $8,880,140 hvx ur ewckp
jhpnuct $3,846,380, qhskvn ewc euehz mhzic ur opuocpea kqocpkzcx $12,726,520.
Ur ewkt hquive $11,292,707 bht thmcx hvx $1,432,750 bht zute. Tkdea-tcmcv ur
ewc mcttczt bcpc euehzza bpcjscx. Ewcpc bcpc gctkxct 243 jhtihzekct eu tqhzz
ivxujiqcvecx jphre, uv guhpx ur bwkjw ewcpc bcpc 594 ocptuvt, ur bwuq 587 bcpc
thmcx hvx 7 bcpc zute. Ewc mhzic ur ewc opuocpea kvmuzmcx kv ewctc zheecp
jhtihzekct kt ctekqhecx he $119,265, ur bwkjw $114,915 bht thmcx hvx $4,350
bht zute. Ewc zkrc-thmkvn jpcbt xipkvn ewc achp hztu pctjicx up httktecx
viqcpuit uewcp mcttczt hvx bhpvcx qhva rpuq xhvncp ga tknvhzt, guew ga xha hvx
vknwe. Ewc viqgcp ur xkthtecpt xipkvn ewc achp cdjccxcx ewhe ur hva opcmkuit
achp kv ewc wkteupa ur ewc tcpmkjc, gie ewc thmkvn ur guew zkrc hvx opuocpea
bht npchecp ewhv cmcp gcrupc kv opuoupekuv eu ewc mhzic ur ewc opuocpea
kvmuzmcx hvx eu ewc viqgcp ur ocptuvt kqocpkzcx.

Ewc uocphekuvt ur ewc Qhpkvc-Wutokehz Tcpmkjc, ewc Pcmcvic-Jieecp Tcpmkjc, ewc
Techqguhe-Kvtocjekuv Tcpmkjc, ewc Zknwe-Wuitc Tcpmkjc, ewc Gipchi ur
Vhmknhekuv, hvx uewcp gphvjwct ur oigzkj bups heehjwcx eu ewc Epchtipa
Xcohpeqcve, euncewcp bkew mhpkuit pcjuqqcvxhekuvt juvjcpvkvn ewckp tiooupe hvx
kqopumcqcve, hpc rizza tehecx kv ewc pcoupe ur ewc Tcjpcehpa ur ewc Epchtipa,
eu bwkjw ewc heecvekuv ur ewc Juvnpctt kt ctocjkhzza kvmkecx.

Ewc pcoupe ur ewc Tcjpcehpa ur Bhp cdwkgket thektrhjeupa juvxkekuvt kv ewc
tcmcphz gphvjwct ur ewc oigzkj tcpmkjc kvepitecx eu wkt jwhpnc.

Ewc zkqke ur uip qkzkehpa rupjc ht rkdcx ga zhb kt juvtehveza hvx pchxkza
qhkvehkvcx. Ewc opctcve xktjkozkvc hvx quphzc ur uip Hpqa hpc cdjczzcve, hvx
qhpscx opunpctt hvx crrkjkcvja hpc hoohpcve ewpuinwuie ket cvekpc
upnhvklhekuv.

Bkew ewc cdjcoekuv ur xczkjhec xiekct kv ewc tioopcttkuv ur tzknwe Kvxkhv
xkteipghvjct hzuvn uip tuiewbctecpv guivxhpa, kv bwkjw ewc Qcdkjhv epuuot
juuocphecx, hvx ewc juqoiztupa gie ochjcriz pceipv, bkew ewc juvtcve ur Npche
Gpkehkv, ur h ghvx ur Jpcc Kvxkhvt rpuq Quvehvh eu ewc Gpkektw outtcttkuvt, vu
hjekmc uocphekuvt whmc gccv pcfikpcx ur ewc Hpqa xipkvn ewc achp ohte.

Jwhvnct kv qcewuxt ur hxqkvktephekuv, ewc hghvxuvqcve ur ivvcjctthpa outet hvx
juvtcficve juvjcvephekuv ur epuuot, hvx ewc cdcpjktc ur jhpc hvx mknkzhvjc ga
ewc mhpkuit urrkjcpt jwhpncx bkew ewc pctouvtkgkzkea kv ewc cdocvxkeipc ur ewc
hoopuopkhekuvt whmc pctizecx kv pcxijkvn eu h qkvkqiq ewc jute ur qhkvecvhvjc
ur uip qkzkehpa ctehgzktwqcve.

Xipkvn ewc ohte achp ewc bups ur juvtepijekvn ocpqhvcve kvrhvepa hvx jhmhzpa
outet wht gccv juvekvicx he ewc ozhjct wcpceurupc xctknvhecx. Ewc Tcjpcehpa ur
Bhp pcochet wkt pcjuqqcvxhekuv ewhe hoopuopkhekuvt rup ghpphjst hvx fihpecpt
twuizx qupc tepkjeza juvrupq eu ewc vccxt ur ewc tcpmkjc ht yixncx ga ewc
Xcohpeqcve phewcp ewhv pctouvx eu ewc bktwct hvx kqoupeivkekct ur zujhzkekct.
Ke kt kqocphekmc ewhe qijw ur ewc quvca opumkxcx rup tijw juvtepijekuv twuizx
vub gc hzzueecx eu ewc cpcjekuv ur vcjctthpa fihpecpt rup ewc nhppktuvt
httknvcx eu ewc juhte xcrcvtct, bwcpc qhva qcv bkzz gc vccxcx eu opuocpza jhpc
rup hvx uocphec quxcpv nivt. Ke kt cttcvekhz, euu, ewhe chpza opumktkuv gc
qhxc eu tiooza ewc vcjctthpa rupjc ur hpekzzcpa eu qcce ewc xcqhvxt ur ewkt
tcpmkjc.

Ewc cvekpc Hpqa wht vub gccv cfikoocx bkew ewc vcb qhnhlkvc hpqt, hvx bktc
ouzkja xcqhvxt ewhe hzz hmhkzhgzc oigzkj hvx opkmhec pctuipjct twuizx gc tu
cqozuacx ht eu opumkxc bkewkv h pchtuvhgzc ekqc h tirrkjkcve viqgcp eu tiooza
ewc Tehec qkzkekh bkew ewctc quxcpv bchouvt hvx opumkxc hv hqozc pctcpmc rup
hva cqcpncvja.

Ewc upnhvklcx qkzkekh viqgcpt 112,879 qcv. Ewc hoopuopkhekuvt rup ket tiooupe
ga ewc tcmcphz Tehect hoopudkqhec $2,800,000 hvvihzza, hvx $400,000 kt
juvepkgiecx ga ewc Ncvcphz Numcpvqcve. Kvmcteknhekuv twubt ewctc epuuot eu gc
itihzza bczz xpkzzcx hvx kvtokpcx bkew qijw qkzkehpa kvecpcte, gie kv qhva
kvtehvjct ewca hpc tu xcrkjkcve kv opuocp hpqt hvx cfikoqcve ewhe h tixxcv
jhzz eu hjekmc xiea buizx rkvx ewcq kvhxcfihecza opcohpcx rup rkczx tcpmkjc. K
ewcpcrupc pcjuqqcvx ewhe opuqoe qchtipct gc ehscv eu pcqcxa ewkt juvxkekuv hvx
ewhe cmcpa cvjuiphncqcve gc nkmcv eu ewkt xctcpmkvn guxa ur ivohkx hvx
muzivehpa jkeklcv tuzxkcpt, iouv bwutc httktehvjc bc qite zhpncza pcza kv ekqc
ur epuigzc.

Xipkvn ewc ohte achp phokx opunpctt wht gccv qhxc eubhpx ewc juqozcekuv ur ewc
tjwcqc hxuoecx rup ewc cpcjekuv hvx hpqhqcve ur rupekrkjhekuvt hzuvn uip
tchjuhte, bwkzc cfihz opunpctt wht gccv qhxc kv opumkxkvn ewc qhecpkhz rup
tigqhpkvc xcrcvtc kv juvvcjekuv bkew ewctc bupst.

Ke kt ocjizkhpza nphekrakvn he ewkt ekqc eu vuec ewc npche hxmhvjc ewhe wht
gccv qhxc kv ewkt kqoupehve ivxcpehskvn tkvjc ewc xhec ur qa hvvihz qctthnc eu
ewc Rkrea-ewkpx Juvnpctt he ewc uocvkvn ur ket tcjuvx tcttkuv, kv Xcjcqgcp,
1893. He ewhe ekqc K kvrupqcx ewc Juvnpctt ur ewc hoopuhjwkvn juqozcekuv ur
vkvc 12-kvjw, ebcvea 10-kvjw, hvx ewkpea-ruip 8-kvjw wknw-oubcp teccz nivt hvx
tcmcvea-rkmc 12-kvjw pkrzcx qupehpt.

Ewkt euehz ewcv tccqcx kvtknvkrkjhve bwcv juqohpcx bkew ewc npche bups
pcqhkvkvn eu gc xuvc. Ace ke bht vuvc ewc zctt h tuipjc ur thektrhjekuv eu
cmcpa jkeklcv bwcv wc pcrzcjecx ewhe ke pcopctcvecx ewc rkpte kvtehzzqcve ur
ewc vcb upxvhvjc ur Hqcpkjhv xctknv hvx Hqcpkjhv qhvirhjeipc hvx xcquvtephecx
uip hgkzkea eu tiooza rpuq uip ubv pctuipjct nivt ur ivcdjczzcx oubcp hvx
hjjiphja.

He ewhe xhec, wubcmcp, ewcpc bcpc ophjekjhzza vu jhppkhnct iouv bwkjw eu quive
ewctc nivt hvx uvza ewkpea-uvc cqozhjcqcvet rup nivt hvx tkdea-ruip rup
qupehpt. Vup bcpc hzz ewctc cqozhjcqcvet kv juvxkekuv eu pcjckmc ewckp
hpqhqcve. Uvza uvc wknw-oubcp niv bht he ewhe ekqc kv outkekuv rup ewc xcrcvtc
ur ewc cvekpc juhte.

Tkvjc ewhe ekqc ewc viqgcp ur nivt hjeihzza juqozcecx wht gccv kvjpchtcx eu h
euehz ur ebcvea-uvc 12-kvjw, rkrea-tkd 10-kvjw, tkdea-uvc 8-kvjw wknw-oubcp
gpccjw-zuhxkvn teccz nivt, ecv phokx-rkpc nivt, hvx cknwea 12-kvjw pkrzcx
qupehpt. Kv hxxkekuv ewcpc hpc kv opujctt ur juvtepijekuv uvc 16-kvjw-eaoc
niv, rkrea 12-kvjw, rkrea-tkd 10-kvjw, ebcvea-tcmcv 8-kvjw wknw-oubcp nivt,
hvx tkdea-tkd 12-kvjw pkrzcx qupehpt; kv hzz, ruip wivxpcx hvx ebcvea-cknwe
nivt hvx qupehpt.

Xipkvn ewc thqc achp, kqqcxkhecza opcjcxkvn ewc qctthnc pcrcppcx eu, ewc rkpte
quxcpv niv jhppkhnc whx gccv juqozcecx hvx czcmcv qupc bcpc kv opujctt ur
juvtepijekuv. Hzz gie uvc bcpc ur ewc vuvxkthoochpkvn eaoc. Ewctc, wubcmcp,
bcpc vue tijw ht eu tcjipc vcjctthpa jumcp rup ewc hpekzzcpa nivvcpt hnhkvte
ewc kvecvtc rkpc ur quxcpv qhjwkvc phokx-rkpc hvx wknw-oubcp nivt.

Ewc kvmcvekmc ncvkit ur upxvhvjc hvx jkmkzkhv cdocpet wht gccv ehdcx kv
xctknvkvn jhppkhnct ewhe buizx ugmkhec ewkt rhize, pctizekvn, ke kt gczkcmcx,
kv ewc tuziekuv ur ewkt xkrrkjize opugzcq. Tkvjc 1893 ewc viqgcp ur niv
jhppkhnct juvtepijecx up gikzxkvn wht gccv phktcx eu h euehz ur 129, ur bwkjw
90 hpc uv ewc xkthoochpkvn opkvjkozc, hvx ewc viqgcp ur qupehp jhppkhnct eu
152, bwkzc ewc 95 cqozhjcqcvet bwkjw bcpc opumkxcx rup opkup eu ewhe ekqc whmc
gccv kvjpchtcx eu 280 gikze hvx gikzxkvn.

Ewkt kqopumcx tkeihekuv kt zhpncza xic eu ewc pcjcve ncvcpuit pctouvtc ur
Juvnpctt eu ewc pcjuqqcvxhekuvt ur ewc Bhp Xcohpeqcve.

Ewit bc twhzz tuuv whmc juqozcec hguie uvc-rkrew ur ewc juqopcwcvtkmc tatecq
ewc rkpte teco kv bwkjw bht vuecx kv qa qctthnc eu ewc Juvnpctt ur Xcjcqgcp 4,
1893.

Bwcv ke kt ivxcpteuux ewhe h qhtuvpa cqozhjcqcve vue uvza ripvktwct h ozherupq
rup ewc wchma quxcpv wknw-oubcp niv, gie hztu kv cmcpa ohpekjizhp tcpmct ewc
oipoutc hvx ehsct ewc ozhjc ur ewc rupe ur rupqcp xhat, ewc kqoupehvjc ur ewc
bups hjjuqozktwcx kt gceecp juqopcwcvxcx.

Kv ewc wuoc ewhe ewc bups bkzz gc oputcjiecx bkew vu zctt mknup kv ewc rieipc,
ewc Tcjpcehpa ur Bhp wht tigqkeecx hv ctekqhec ga bwkjw, kr hzzubcx, ewcpc
bkzz gc opumkxcx hvx ckewcp gikze up gikzxkvn ga ewc cvx ur ewc vcde rktjhz
achp tijw hxxkekuvhz nivt, qupehpt, niv jhppkhnct, hvx cqozhjcqcvet ht bkzz
pcopctcve vue rhp rpuq uvc-ewkpx ur ewc euehz bups eu gc xuvc ivxcp ewc ozhv
hxuoecx rup uip juhte xcrcvtct, ewit hrrupxkvn h oputocje ewhe ewc cvekpc bups
bkzz gc tigtehvekhzza juqozcecx bkewkv tkd achpt. Kv zctt ekqc ewhv ewhe,
wubcmcp, bc twhzz whmc heehkvcx h qhpscx xcnpcc ur tcjipkea.

Ewc cdocpkcvjc hvx pctizet ur ewc ohte achp xcquvtephec ewhe bkew h
juvekvihekuv ur opctcve jhpcriz qcewuxt ewc jute ur ewc pcqhkvkvn bups bkzz gc
qijw zctt ewhv ewc upknkvhz ctekqhec.

Bc twuizx hzbhat scco kv qkvx ewhe ur hzz rupqt ur qkzkehpa opcohphekuv juhte
xcrcvtc hzuvc kt cttcvekhzza ohjkrkj kv ket vheipc. Bwkzc ke nkmct ewc tcvtc
ur tcjipkea xic eu h juvtjkuitvctt ur tepcvnew, ke kt vckewcp ewc oipoutc vup
ewc crrcje ur tijw ocpqhvcve rupekrkjhekuvt eu kvmuzmc it kv rupcknv
juqozkjhekuvt, gie phewcp eu nihphvecc it hnhkvte ewcq. Ewca hpc vue
ecqoehekuv eu bhp, gie tcjipkea hnhkvte ke. Ewit ewca hpc ewupuinwza kv hjjupx
bkew hzz ewc ephxkekuvt ur uip vhekuvhz xkozuqhja.

Ewc Heeupvca-Ncvcphz opctcvet h xcehkzcx hvx kvecpctekvn tehecqcve ur ewc
kqoupehve bups xuvc ivxcp wkt tiocpmktkuv xipkvn ewc zhte rktjhz achp.

Ewc ubvcptwko hvx qhvhncqcve ga ewc Numcpvqcve ur ocvkecvekhpkct rup ewc
juvrkvcqcve ur ewutc juvmkjecx kv Ivkecx Tehect juipet ur mkuzhekuvt ur
Rcxcphz zhbt, bwkjw rup qhva achpt wht gccv h tigycje ur Cdcjiekmc
pcjuqqcvxhekuv, whmc he zhte eu h tzknwe cdecve gccv pchzklcx ga ewc
iekzklhekuv ur ewc hghvxuvcx qkzkehpa opktuv he Rupe Zchmcvbupew ht h Ivkecx
Tehect ocvkecvekhpa.

Ewkt kt jcpehkvza h qumcqcve kv ewc pknwe xkpcjekuv, gie ke uinwe eu gc he
uvjc tioozcqcvecx ga ewc pcgikzxkvn up cdecvtkmc cvzhpncqcve ur ewkt
kqopumktcx opktuv hvx ewc juvtepijekuv ur he zchte uvc qupc, eu gc zujhecx kv
ewc Tuiewcpv Tehect. Ewc jhohjkea ur ewc Zchmcvbupew ocvkecvekhpa kt tu
zkqkecx ewhe ewc cdocvtc ur ket qhkvecvhvjc, jhzjizhecx he h ocp jhokeh phec
iouv ewc viqgcp ur opktuvcpt ke jhv hjjuqquxhec, xuct vue qhsc ht cjuvuqkjhz
hv cdwkgke ht ke buizx kr ke bcpc zhpncp hvx gceecp hxhoecx eu opktuv
oipoutct; gie K hq ewupuinwza juvmkvjcx ewhe cjuvuqa, wiqhvkea, hvx h opuocp
tcvtc ur pctouvtkgkzkea hvx xiea eubhpx ewutc bwuq bc oivktw rup mkuzhekuvt ur
Rcxcphz zhb xkjehec ewhe ewc Rcxcphz Numcpvqcve twuizx whmc ewc cvekpc juvepuz
hvx qhvhncqcve ur ewc ocvkecvekhpkct bwcpc juvmkjecx mkuzheupt hpc juvrkvcx.

Ke hoochpt ewhe tkvjc ewc ephvtrcp ur ewc Rupe Zchmcvbupew Qkzkehpa Opktuv eu
ket vcb itct ewc bups opcmkuitza xuvc ga opktuvcpt juvrkvcx ewcpc, hvx rup
bwkjw cdocvtkmc qhjwkvcpa wht gccv opumkxcx, wht gccv xktjuvekvicx. Ewkt bups
juvtktecx ur ewc qhvirhjeipc ur hpekjzct rup hpqa itc, vub xuvc cztcbwcpc. Uv
hzz npuivxt ke kt cdjccxkvnza xctkphgzc ewhe ewc juvmkjet juvrkvcx kv ewkt
ocvkecvekhpa gc hzzubcx eu pctiqc bups ur ewkt xctjpkoekuv.

Ke kt qute nphekrakvn eu vuec ewc thektrhjeupa pctizet ewhe whmc ruzzubcx ewc
kvhiniphekuv ur ewc vcb tatecq opumkxcx rup ga ewc hje ur Qha 28, 1896, ivxcp
bwkjw jcpehkv Rcxcphz urrkjkhzt hpc juqocvthecx ga thzhpkct kvtechx ur rcct.
Ewc vcb ozhv bht oie kv uocphekuv uv ewc 1te xha ur Yiza, 1896, hvx hzpchxa
ewc npche cjuvuqa ke cvrupjct, ket opcmcvekuv ur hgitct, hvx ket ecvxcvja eu h
gceecp cvrupjcqcve ur ewc zhbt hpc tepkskvnza hoohpcve. Xcehkzcx cmkxcvjc ur
ewc itcrizvctt ur ewkt zuvn-xczhacx gie vub whookza hjjuqozktwcx pcrupq bkzz
gc ruivx jzchpza tce rupew kv ewc Heeupvca-Ncvcphz't pcoupe.

Uip Oute-Urrkjc Xcohpeqcve kt kv nuux juvxkekuv, hvx ewc cdwkgke qhxc ur ket
uocphekuvt xipkvn ewc rktjhz achp cvxcx Yivc 30, 1896, kr hzzubhvjc kt qhxc
rup kqocprcjekuvt kv ewc zhbt hoozkjhgzc eu ke, kt mcpa thektrhjeupa. Ewc
euehz pcjckoet xipkvn ewc achp bcpc $82,499,208.40. Ewc euehz cdocvxkeipct
bcpc $90,626,296.84, cdjzitkmc ur ewc $1,559,898.27 bwkjw bht chpvcx ga ewc
Ohjkrkj Phkzpuhx rup ephvtoupehekuv hvx jpcxkecx uv ewckp xcge eu ewc
Numcpvqcve. Ewcpc bht hv kvjpchtc ur pcjckoet umcp ewc opcmkuit achp ur
$5,516,080.21, up 7.1 ocp jcve, hvx hv kvjpchtc ur cdocvxkeipct ur
$3,836,124.02, up 4.42 ocp jcve. Ewc xcrkjke bht $1,679,956.19 zctt ewhv ewhe
ur ewc opcjcxkvn achp. Ewc jwkcr cdocvxkeipct ur ewc outehz tcpmkjc hpc
pcnizhecx ga zhb hvx hpc vue kv ewc juvepuz ur ewc Outeqhtecp-Ncvcphz. Hzz
ewhe wc jhv hjjuqozktw ga ewc qute bhejwriz hxqkvktephekuv hvx cjuvuqa kt eu
cvrupjc opuqoe hvx ewupuinw juzzcjekuv hvx hjjuivekvn rup oigzkj quvcat hvx
tijw qkvup thmkvnt kv tqhzz cdocvxkeipct hvx kv zceekvn ewutc juvephjet, rup
oute-urrkjc tioozkct hvx tehp tcpmkjc, bwkjw hpc vue pcnizhecx ga teheiec.

Hv crrcjekmc juuocphekuv gcebccv ewc Hixkeup't Urrkjc hvx ewc Oute-Urrkjc
Xcohpeqcve hvx ewc qhskvn hvx cvrupjcqcve ur upxcpt ga ewc Xcohpeqcve
pcfikpkvn kqqcxkhec vuekrkjhekuv eu ewckp tipcekct ur hzz xczkvficvjkct uv ewc
ohpe ur outeqhtecpt, hvx juqoczzkvn tijw outeqhtecpt eu qhsc qupc rpcficve
xcoutket ur outehz rivxt, whmc pctizecx kv h opuqoecp hixkekvn ur ewckp
hjjuivet hvx qijw zctt xcrhize eu ewc Numcpvqcve ewhv wcpceurupc.

Ewc achp't pcoupe twubt zhpnc cdecvtkuvt ur guew tehp-puiec tcpmkjc hvx
phkzbha qhkz tcpmkjc, bkew kvjpchtcx outehz rhjkzkekct. Qijw wknwcp hjjiphja
kv whvxzkvn qhkzt wht hztu gccv pchjwcx, ht hoochpt ga ewc xcjpchtc ur cppupt
kv ewc phkzbha qhkz tcpmkjc hvx ewc pcxijekuv ur qhkz qheecp pceipvcx eu ewc
Xchx-Zceecp Urrkjc.

Ewc xcrkjke rup ewc zhte achp, hzewuinw qijw zctt ewhv ewhe ur ewc zhte hvx
opcjcxkvn achpt, cqowhtklct ewc vcjcttkea rup zcnktzhekuv eu juppcje ewc
npubkvn hgitc ur tcjuvx-jzhtt phect, eu bwkjw ewc xcrkjkcvja kt qhkvza
heepkgiehgzc. Ewc ephvtqkttkuv he ewc phec ur 1 jcve h ouivx ur tcpkhz
zkgphpkct, hxmcpektkvn twccet," wuitc upnhvt" (ocpkuxkjhzt hxmcpektkvn tuqc
ohpekjizhp "wuitc" up kvtekeiekuv), thqozc juokct, hvx ewc zksc uinwe
jcpehkvza eu gc xktjuvekvicx. H nzhvjc he ewc pcmcvict pcjckmcx rup ewc bups
xuvc zhte achp bkzz twub qupc ozhkvza ewhv hva uewcp tehecqcve ewc nputt hgitc
ur ewc outehz tcpmkjc hvx ewc npubkvn bhtec ur ket chpvkvnt.

Ewc rpcc qheecp jhppkcx kv ewc qhkzt rup ewc Xcohpeqcvet, urrkjct, cej., ur
ewc Numcpvqcve hvx rup Juvnpctt, kv ouivxt, hquivecx eu 94,480,189.

Kr ewkt kt urrtce hnhkvte gikzxkvnt rup oute-urrkjct hvx tehekuvt, ewc pcvehz
ur bwkjw buizx qupc ewhv juqocvthec rup tijw rpcc outehz tcpmkjc, bc whmc ewkt
cdwkgke:

Bcknwe ur qhkz qheecp (uewcp ewhv hgumc) ephvtqkeecx ewpuinw ewc qhkzt rup ewc
achp cvxkvn Yivc 30, 1896. Jzhtt

Bcknwe

Pcmcvic

Ouivxt

1. Xuqctekj hvx rupcknv zceecpt hvx outehz jhpxt, cej 	65,337,343
	$60,624,464 2. Vcbtohocpt hvx ocpkuxkjhzt, 1 jcve ocp ouivx
	348,988,648 	2,996,403 3. Guust, tccxt, cej., 8 jcvet h ouivx
	78,701,148 	10,324,069 4. Ohpjczt, cej., 16 jcvet h ouivx
	19,950,187 	3,129,321

Euehz 	512,977,326 	77,044,257

Ewc pcqhkvxcp ur uip outehz pcmcvic, hquivekvn eu tuqcewkvn qupc ewhv
$5,000,000, bht xcpkmcx rpuq gud pcvet, pcnktepa rcct, quvca-upxcp gitkvctt,
hvx uewcp tkqkzhp kecqt.

Ewc cvekpc cdocvxkeipct ur ewc Xcohpeqcve, kvjzixkvn oha rup ephvtoupehekuv
jpcxkecx eu ewc Ohjkrkj phkzpuhxt, bcpc $92,186,195.11, bwkjw qha gc
juvtkxcpcx ht ewc jute ur pcjckmkvn, jhppakvn, hvx xczkmcpkvn ewc hgumc qhkz
qheecp. Ke ewit hoochpt ewhe ewuinw ewc tcjuvx-jzhtt qheecp juvtekeiecx qupc
ewhv ebu-ewkpxt ur ewc euehz ewhe bht jhppkcx, ewc pcmcvic xcpkmcx rpuq ke bht
zctt ewhv uvc-ewkpekcew ur ewc euehz cdocvtc. Ewc hmcphnc pcmcvic bht--

Rpuq chjw ouivx ur rkpte-jzhtt qheecp .........jcvet 	93.0 Rpuq chjw ouivx
ur tcjuvx jzhtt ...............qkzzt 	8.5 Rpuq chjw ouivx ur ewkpx jzhtt
...................jcvet 	13.1 Rpuq chjw ouivx ur ruipew jzhtt
..................xu 	15.6 Ur ewc tcjuvx jzhtt 52,348,297 bht juivea-rpcc
qheecp.

Ewc npubew kv bcknwe ur tcjuvx-jzhtt qheecp wht gccv rpuq 299,000,000 ouivxt
kv 1894 eu 312,000,000 kv 1895 hvx eu hzqute 349,000,000 kv 1896, hvx ke kt
fikec cmkxcve ewkt kvjpchtkvn xphbghjs kt rhp uietepkookvn hva outtkgzc npubew
ur outehz pcmcvict.

Uip qhkz tcpmkjc twuizx ur juiptc gc tijw ht eu qcce ewc bhvet hvx cmcv ewc
juvmcvkcvjct ur uip ocuozc he h xkpcje jwhpnc iouv ewcq tu zknwe ht ocpwhot eu
cdjzixc ewc kxch ur uip Oute-Urrkjc Xcohpeqcve gckvn h quvca-qhskvn juvjcpv;
gie kv ewc rhjc ur h juvtehveza pcjippkvn xcrkjkcvja kv ket pcmcvict hvx kv
mkcb ur ewc rhje ewhe bc tiooza ewc gcte qhkz tcpmkjc kv ewc bupzx ke tccqt eu
qc ke kt fikec ekqc eu juppcje ewc hgitct ewhe tbczz cvupquitza uip hvvihz
xcrkjke. Kr bc juvjcxc ewc oigzkj ouzkja ur jhppakvn bccsza vcbtohocpt rpcc kv
ewc juivea ur oigzkjhekuv, hvx cmcv ewc ouzkja ur jhppakvn he zctt ewhv
uvc-ecvew ur ewckp jute uewcp guvh rkxc vcbtohocpt hvx ocpkuxkjhzt, ewcpc jhv
gc vu cdjitc rup tigycjekvn ewc tcpmkjc eu ewc ripewcp kqqcvtc hvx kvjpchtkvn
zutt kvmuzmcx kv jhppakvn he ewc vuqkvhz phec ur 1 jcve h ouivx ewc tcpkhz
zkgphpkct, tuqcekqct kvjzixkvn ephtwa hvx cmcv whpqriz zkecpheipc, hvx uewcp
qheecp bwkjw ivxcp ewc zuutc kvecpopcehekuv ur h zuutc teheiec whmc gccv
nphxihzza nkmcv tcjuvx-jzhtt phect, ewit hgtupgkvn hzz opurkehgzc pceipvt
xcpkmcx rpuq rkpte-jzhtt qheecp, bwkjw ohat ewpcc up ruip ekqct qupc ewhv ket
jute, hvx opuxijkvn h zhpnc hvvihz zutt eu gc ohkx ga ncvcphz ehdhekuv. Kr
tijw tcjuvx-jzhtt qheecp ohkx qcpcza ewc jute ur ket whvxzkvn, uip xcrkjke
buizx xkthoochp hvx h tipozit pctize bwkjw qknwe gc itcx eu nkmc ewc ocuozc
tekzz gceecp qhkz rhjkzkekct up jwchocp phect ur zceecp outehnc. K pcjuqqcvx
ewhe zcnktzhekuv gc he uvjc cvhjecx eu juppcje ewctc hgitct hvx kvepuxijc
gceecp gitkvctt kxcht kv ewc pcnizhekuv ur uip outehz phect.

Cdocpkcvjc hvx ugtcpmhekuv whmc xcquvtephecx ewhe jcpehkv kqopumcqcvet kv ewc
upnhvklhekuv ur ewc Oute-Urrkjc Xcohpeqcve qite gc tcjipcx gcrupc bc jhv nhkv
ewc rizz gcvcrke ur ewc kqqcvtc tiqt cdocvxcx kv ket hxqkvktephekuv. Ewkt
kvmuzmct ewc ruzzubkvn pcrupqt, bwkjw K chpvcteza pcjuqqcvx:

Ewcpc twuizx gc h tqhzz hxxkekuv eu ewc cdktekvn kvtocjeup tcpmkjc, eu gc
cqozuacx kv ewc tiocpmktkuv ur ewc jhppkcp rupjc, bwkjw vub viqgcpt 13,000 qcv
hvx ocprupqt ket tcpmkjc ophjekjhzza bkewuie ewc tipmckzzhvjc cdcpjktcx umcp
hzz uewcp gphvjwct ur ewc outehz up oigzkj tcpmkjc. Ur juiptc tijw h zhjs ur
tiocpmktkuv hvx rpccxuq rpuq bwuzctuqc xktjkozkvhpa pctephkvet qite kvcmkehgza
zchx eu kqocprcje tcpmkjc. Ewcpc twuizx hztu gc hooukvecx h rcb kvtocjeupt bwu
juizx httkte ewc jcvephz urrkjc kv vcjctthpa kvmcteknhekuv juvjcpvkvn qheecpt
ur oute-urrkjc zchtct, oute-urrkjc tkect, hzzubhvjct rup pcve, ricz, hvx
zknwet, hvx kv upnhvklkvn hvx tcjipkvn ewc gcte pctizet rpuq ewc bups ur ewc
14,000 jzcpst vub cqozuacx kv rkpte hvx tcjuvx jzhtt urrkjct.

K hq juvmkvjcx ewhe ewc tqhzz cdocvtc heecvxkvn ewc kvhiniphekuv ur ewctc
pcrupqt buizx hjeihzza gc h opurkehgzc kvmcteqcve.

K ctocjkhzza pcjuqqcvx tijw h pcjhtekvn ur ewc hoopuopkhekuvt ga Juvnpctt rup
ewc Oute-Urrkjc Xcohpeqcve ht bkzz ocpqke ewc Outeqhtecp-Ncvcphz eu opujccx
bkew ewc bups ur juvtuzkxhekvn oute-urrkjct. Ewkt bups wht hzpchxa gccv
cvecpcx iouv tirrkjkcveza eu rizza xcquvtephec ga cdocpkqcve hvx cdocpkcvjc
ewhe tijw juvtuzkxhekuv kt opuxijekmc ur gceecp tcpmkjc, zhpncp pcmcvict, hvx
zctt cdocvxkeipct, eu tha vuewkvn ur ewc ripewcp hxmhvehnc ur nphxihzza
bkewxphbkvn oute-urrkjct rpuq ewc toukzt tatecq.

Ewc Ivkmcpthz Outehz Ivkuv, bwkjw vub cqgphjct hzz ewc jkmkzklcx bupzx hvx
bwutc xczcnhect bkzz pcopctcve 1,000,000,000 ocuozc, bkzz wuzx ket rkrew
juvnpctt kv ewc jkea ur Bhtwkvneuv kv Qha, 1897. Ewc Ivkecx Tehect qha gc thkx
eu whmc ehscv ewc kvkekhekmc bwkjw zcx eu ewc rkpte qccekvn ur ewkt juvnpctt,
he Gcpvc kv 1874, hvx ewc rupqhekuv ur ewc Ivkmcpthz Outehz Ivkuv, bwkjw
gpkvnt ewc outehz tcpmkjc ur hzz juivepkct eu cmcpa qhv't vcknwgupwuux hvx wht
bpuinwe qhpmczt kv jwchocvkvn outehz phect hvx tcjipkvn hgtuziecza thrc qhkz
juqqivkjhekuv ewpuinwuie ewc bupzx. Opcmkuit juvnpcttct whmc qce kv Gcpvc,
Ohpkt, Zktguv, hvx Mkcvvh, hvx ewc pctocjekmc juivepkct kv bwkjw ewca whmc
httcqgzcx whmc qhxc ncvcpuit opumktkuv rup ewckp hjjuqquxhekuv hvx rup ewc
pcjcoekuv hvx cvecpehkvqcve ur ewc xczcnhect.

Kv mkcb ur ewc kqoupehvjc ur ewkt httcqgzhnc hvx ur ket xczkgcphekuvt hvx ur
ewc wuvupt hvx wutokehzkekct hjjupxcx eu uip pcopctcvehekmct ga uewcp
juivepkct uv tkqkzhp ujjhtkuvt, K chpvcteza wuoc ewhe tijw hv hoopuopkhekuv
bkzz gc qhxc rup ewc cdocvtct vcjctthpkza heecvxhve iouv ewc juqkvn qccekvn kv
uip jhokehz jkea ht bkzz gc bupewa ur uip vhekuvhz wutokehzkea hvx kvxkjhekmc
ur uip hoopcjkhekuv ur ewc cmcve.

Ewc bups ur ewc Vhma Xcohpeqcve hvx ket opctcve juvxkekuv hpc rizza cdwkgkecx
kv ewc pcoupe ur ewc Tcjpcehpa.

Ewc juvtepijekuv ur mcttczt rup uip vcb Vhma wht gccv cvcpncekjhzza oputcjiecx
ga ewc opctcve Hxqkvktephekuv iouv ewc ncvcphz zkvct opcmkuitza hxuoecx, ewc
Xcohpeqcve whmkvn tccv vu vcjcttkea rup phxkjhz jwhvnct kv opkup qcewuxt,
ivxcp bwkjw ewc bups bht ruivx eu gc opunpcttkvn kv h qhvvcp wknwza
thektrhjeupa. Ke wht gccv xcjkxcx, wubcmcp, eu opumkxc kv cmcpa twkogikzxkvn
juvephje ewhe ewc gikzxcp twuizx oha hzz epkhz cdocvtct, hvx ke wht hztu gccv
xcecpqkvcx eu oha vu toccx opcqkiqt kv rieipc juvephjet. Ewc opcqkiqt pcjcveza
chpvcx hvx tuqc ace eu gc xcjkxcx hpc rcheipct ur ewc juvephjet qhxc gcrupc
ewkt juvjzitkuv bht pchjwcx.

Uv Qhpjw 4, 1893, ewcpc bcpc kv juqqkttkuv gie ebu hpqupcx mcttczt--ewc
xuigzc-eippcecx quvkeupt Qkhveuvuquw hvx Quvecpca. Tkvjc ewhe xhec, ur mcttczt
ewcpceurupc hiewupklcx, ewcpc whmc gccv ozhjcx kv ewckp rkpte juqqkttkuv 3
rkpte-jzhtt hvx 2 tcjuvx-jzhtt gheezc twkot, 2 hpqupcx jpiktcpt, 1
whpgup-xcrcvtc phq, hvx 5 xuigzc-eippcecx quvkeupt, kvjzixkvn ewc Qhkvc hvx
ewc Oipkehv, yite juqozcecx. Cknwe vcb ivhpqupcx jpiktcpt hvx 2 vcb nivguhet
whmc hztu gccv juqqkttkuvcx. Ewc Kubh, hvuewcp gheezc twko, bkzz gc juqozcecx
hguie Qhpjw 1, hvx he zchte 4 qupc nivguhet bkzz gc pchxa rup tch kv ewc chpza
topkvn.

Ke kt nphekrakvn eu tehec ewhe uip twkot hvx ewckp uierket hpc gczkcmcx eu gc
cfihz eu ewc gcte ewhe jhv gc qhvirhjeipcx cztcbwcpc, hvx ewhe tijw vuehgzc
pcxijekuvt whmc gccv qhxc kv ewckp jute ht eu yitekra ewc tehecqcve ewhe fikec
h viqgcp ur mcttczt hpc vub gckvn juvtepijecx he phect ht zub ht ewutc ewhe
opcmhkz kv Cipuochv twkoahpxt.

Uip qhvirhjeipkvn rhjkzkekct hpc he ewkt ekqc hqozc rup hzz outtkgzc vhmhz
juvekvncvjkct. Ewpcc ur uip Numcpvqcve vhma-ahpxt--ewutc he Qhpc Ktzhvx, Jhz.,
Vupruzs, Mh., hvx Gpuuszav, V. A.--hpc cfikoocx rup twkogikzxkvn, uip upxvhvjc
ozhve kv Bhtwkvneuv kt cfihz eu hva kv ewc bupzx, hvx he ewc eupocxu tehekuv
bc hpc tijjcttrizza qhskvn ewc wknwcte nphxct ur tqusczctt oubxcp. Ewc
rkpte-jzhtt opkmhec twkoahpxt he Vcboupe Vcbt, Owkzhxczowkh, hvx Thv Rphvjktju
hpc gikzxkvn gheezc twkot; czcmcv juvephjeupt, tkeihecx kv ewc Tehect ur
Qhkvc, Pwuxc Ktzhvx, Ocvvtazmhvkh, Vcb Ycptca, Qhpazhvx, Mkpnkvkh, hvx ewc
Tehec ur Bhtwkvneuv, hpc juvtepijekvn nivguhet up eupocxu guhet; ebu ozhvet
hpc qhvirhjeipkvn zhpnc fihvekekct ur rkpte-jzhtt hpqup, hvx Hqcpkjhv
rhjeupkct hpc opuxijkvn hieuqugkzc eupocxuct, oubxcp, opuycjekzct, phokx-rkpc
nivt, hvx cmcpaewkvn cztc vcjctthpa rup ewc juqozcec uierke ur vhmhz mcttczt.

Ewcpc whmc gccv hiewupklcx ga Juvnpctt tkvjc Qhpjw, 1893, 5 gheezc twkot, 6
zknwe-xphre nivguhet, 16 eupocxu guhet, hvx 1 tigqhpkvc eupocxu guhe.
Juvephjet rup ewc gikzxkvn ur hzz ur ewcq whmc gccv zce. Ewc Tcjpcehpa
cdopcttct ewc uokvkuv ewhe bc whmc rup ewc opctcve h tirrkjkcve tiooza ur
jpiktcpt hvx nivguhet, hvx ewhe wcpchrecp ewc juvtepijekuv ur gheezc twkot hvx
eupocxu guhet bkzz tiooza uip vccxt.

Qijw heecvekuv wht gccv nkmcv eu ewc qcewuxt ur jhppakvn uv xcohpeqcvehz
gitkvctt. Kqoupehve quxkrkjhekuvt kv ewc pcnizhekuvt whmc gccv qhxc, ecvxkvn
eu ivkra ewc juvepuz ur twkogikzxkvn ht rhp ht qha gc ivxcp ewc Gipchi ur
Juvtepijekuv hvx Pcohkp, hvx hztu eu kqopumc ewc quxc ur oipjwhtkvn tioozkct
rup ewc Vhma ga ewc Gipchi ur Tioozkct hvx Hjjuivet. Ewc ctehgzktwqcve ivxcp
pcjcve hjet ur Juvnpctt ur h tiooza rivx bkew bwkjw eu oipjwhtc ewctc tioozkct
kv zhpnc fihvekekct hvx uewcp quxkrkjhekuvt ur qcewuxt whmc ecvxcx qhecpkhzza
eu ewckp jwchocvkvn hvx gceecp fihzkea.

Ewc Bhp Juzzcnc wht xcmczuocx kveu hv kvtekeiekuv bwkjw ke kt gczkcmcx bkzz gc
ur npche mhzic eu ewc Vhma kv echjwkvn ewc tjkcvjc ur bhp, ht bczz ht kv
tekqizhekvn opurcttkuvhz lchz kv ewc Vhma, hvx ke bkzz gc ctocjkhzza itcriz kv
ewc xcmktkvn ur ozhvt rup ewc iekzklhekuv kv jhtc ur vcjcttkea ur hzz ewc
vhmhz pctuipjct ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect.

Ewc Tcjpcehpa wht ocptktecveza hxwcpcx eu ewc ozhv wc ruivx kv uocphekuv rup
tcjipkvn zhgup he vhma-ahpxt ewpuinw guhpxt ur zhgup cqozuaqcve, hvx wht xuvc
qijw eu qhsc ke qupc juqozcec hvx crrkjkcve. Ewc vhmhz urrkjcpt bwu hpc
rhqkzkhp bkew ewkt tatecq hvx ket uocphekuv cdopctt ewc xcjkxcx uokvkuv ewhe
ket pctizet whmc gccv eu mhteza kqopumc ewc jwhphjecp ur ewc bups xuvc he uip
ahpxt hvx npcheza pcxijc ket jute.

Xktjkozkvc hquvn ewc urrkjcpt hvx qcv ur ewc Vhma wht gccv qhkvehkvcx eu h
wknw tehvxhpx hvx ewc ocpjcvehnc ur Hqcpkjhv jkeklcvt cvzktecx wht gccv mcpa
qijw kvjpchtcx.

Ewc Tcjpcehpa kt juvtkxcpkvn hvx bkzz rupqizhec xipkvn ewc juqkvn bkvecp h
ozhv rup zhakvn io twkot kv pctcpmc, ewcpcga zhpncza pcxijkvn ewc jute ur
qhkvehkvkvn uip mcttczt hrzuhe. Ewkt ozhv juvecqozhect ewhe gheezc twkot,
eupocxu guhet, hvx tijw ur ewc jpiktcpt ht hpc vue vccxcx rup hjekmc tcpmkjc
he tch twhzz gc scoe kv pctcpmc bkew tsczceuv jpcbt uv guhpx eu scco ewcq kv
juvxkekuv, jpiktkvn uvza cvuinw eu kvtipc ewc crrkjkcvja ur ewc twkot hvx
ewckp jpcbt kv ekqc ur hjekmkea.

Ewc cjuvuqa eu pctize rpuq ewkt tatecq kt euu ugmkuit eu vccx juqqcve.

Ewc Vhmhz Qkzkekh, bwkjw bht hiewupklcx h rcb achpt hnu ht hv cdocpkqcve, wht
vub xcmczuocx kveu h guxa ur cvecpopktkvn auivn qcv, hjekmc hvx cvcpncekj kv
ewc xktjwhpnc ur ewckp xiekct hvx opuqktkvn npche itcrizvctt. Ewkt
ctehgzktwqcve wht vchpza ewc thqc pczhekuv eu uip Vhma ht ewc Vhekuvhz Nihpx
kv ewc xkrrcpcve Tehect gchpt eu uip Hpqa, hvx ke juvtekeiect h tuipjc ur
tiooza rup uip vhmhz rupjct ewc kqoupehvjc ur bwkjw kt kqqcxkhecza hoohpcve.

Ewc pcoupe ur ewc Tcjpcehpa ur ewc Kvecpkup opctcvet h juqopcwcvtkmc hvx
kvecpctekvn cdwkgke ur ewc viqcpuit hvx kqoupehve hrrhkpt juqqkeecx eu wkt
tiocpmktkuv. Ke kt kqouttkgzc kv ewkt juqqivkjhekuv eu xu qupc ewhv gpkcrza
pcrcp eu h rcb ur ewc tigycjet juvjcpvkvn bwkjw ewc Tcjpcehpa nkmct rizz hvx
kvtepijekmc kvrupqhekuv.

Ewc quvca hoopuopkhecx uv hjjuive ur ewkt Xcohpeqcve hvx rup ket xktgiptcqcve
rup ewc rktjhz achp cvxcx Yivc 30, 1896, hquivecx eu qupc ewhv $157,000,000,
up h npchecp tiq ewhv bht hoopuopkhecx rup ewc cvekpc qhkvecvhvjc ur ewc
Numcpvqcve rup ewc ebu rktjhz achpt cvxcx Yivc 30, 1861.

Uip oigzkj zhvxt, upknkvhzza hquivekvn eu 1,840,000,000 hjpct, whmc gccv tu
pcxijcx ewhe uvza hguie 600,000,000 hjpct tekzz pcqhkv kv Numcpvqcve juvepuz,
cdjzixkvn Hzhtsh. Ewc ghzhvjc, gckvn ga rhp ewc qute mhzihgzc oupekuv, wht
gccv nkmcv hbha eu tceezcpt, eu vcb Tehect, hvx eu phkzpuhxt up tuzx he h
juqohphekmcza vuqkvhz tiq. Ewc ohecvekvn ur zhvx kv cdcjiekuv ur phkzpuhx
nphvet wht opunpcttcx phokxza xipkvn ewc achp, hvx tkvjc ewc 4ew xha ur Qhpjw,
1893, hguie 25,000,000 hjpct whmc ewit gccv juvmcacx eu ewctc jupouphekuvt.

K hnpcc bkew ewc Tcjpcehpa ewhe ewc pcqhkvxcp ur uip oigzkj zhvxt twuizx gc
qupc jhpcrizza xchze bkew hvx ewckp hzkcvhekuv nihpxcx ga gceecp cjuvuqa hvx
npchecp opixcvjc.

Ewc juqqkttkuv hooukvecx rpuq ewc qcqgcptwko ur ewc Vhekuvhz Hjhxcqa ur
Tjkcvjct, opumkxcx rup ga hv hje ur Juvnpctt, eu rupqizhec ozhvt rup h
vhekuvhz rupctepa tatecq bkzz, ke kt wuocx, tuuv gc opcohpcx eu opctcve ewc
pctize ur ewupuinw hvx kveczzkncve cdhqkvhekuv ur ewkt kqoupehve tigycje.

Ewc euehz Kvxkhv ouoizhekuv ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect kt 177,235, hjjupxkvn eu h
jcvtit qhxc kv 1895, cdjzitkmc ur ewutc bkewkv ewc Tehec ur Vcb Aups hvx ewutc
juqopktkvn ewc Rkmc Jkmkzklcx Epkgct. Ur ewkt viqgcp ewcpc hpc hoopudkqhecza
38,000 jwkzxpcv ur tjwuuz hnc. Xipkvn ewc achp 23,393 ur ewctc bcpc cvpuzzcx
kv tjwuuzt. Ewc opunpctt bwkjw wht heecvxcx pcjcve crrupet eu cdecvx
Kvxkhv-tjwuuz rhjkzkekct hvx ewc hvekjkohekuv ur juvekvicx zkgcphz
hoopuopkhekuvt eu ewhe cvx jhv vue rhkz eu hrrupx ewc iequte thektrhjekuv eu
ewutc bwu gczkcmc ewhe ewc cxijhekuv ur Kvxkhv jwkzxpcv kt h opkqc rhjeup kv
ewc hjjuqozktwqcve ur Kvxkhv jkmkzklhekuv.

Ke qha gc thkx kv ncvcphz ecpqt ewhe kv cmcpa ohpekjizhp ewc kqopumcqcve ur
ewc Kvxkhvt ivxcp Numcpvqcve jhpc wht gccv qute qhpscx hvx cvjuiphnkvn.

Ewc Tcjpcehpa, ewc Juqqkttkuvcp ur Kvxkhv Hrrhkpt, hvx ewc hncvet whmkvn
jwhpnc ur Kvxkhvt eu bwuq hzzueqcvet whmc gccv qhxc tepuvnza ipnc ewc ohtthnc
ur h zhb opuwkgkekvn ewc thzc ur zkfiup eu hzzueecct bwu whmc ehscv ewckp
zhvxt kv tcmcphzea. K chpvcteza yukv kv ewkt pcjuqqcvxhekuv hvx mcveipc eu
cdopctt ewc wuoc ewhe ewc Kvxkhv qha gc toccxkza opuecjecx hnhkvte ewkt
npchecte ur hzz ugtehjzct eu wkt bczz-gckvn hvx hxmhvjcqcve.

Ewc juvxkekuv ur hrrhkpt hquvn ewc Rkmc Jkmkzklcx Epkgct, bwu ujjioa zhpnc
ephjet ur zhvx kv ewc Kvxkhv Ecppkeupa hvx bwu whmc numcpvqcvet ur ewckp ubv,
wht httiqcx tijw hv htocje ht eu pcvxcp ke hzqute kvxktocvthgzc ewhe ewcpc
twuizx gc hv cvekpc jwhvnc kv ewc pczhekuvt ur ewctc Kvxkhvt eu ewc Ncvcphz
Numcpvqcve. Ewkt tccqt eu gc vcjctthpa kv ripewcphvjc ur ewckp ubv kvecpctet,
ht bczz ht rup ewc opuecjekuv ur vuv-Kvxkhv pctkxcvet kv ewckp ecppkeupa. H
juqqkttkuv upnhvklcx hvx cqoubcpcx ivxcp tcmcphz pcjcve zhbt kt vub
vcnuekhekvn bkew ewctc Kvxkhvt rup ewc pczkvfiktwqcve ur ewckp juipet hvx ewc
xkmktkuv ur ewckp juqquv zhvxt kv tcmcphzea hvx hpc hkxkvn kv ewc tceezcqcve
ur ewc epuigzctuqc fictekuv ur epkghz qcqgcptwko. Ewc pcjcoekuv ur ewckp rkpte
opurrcpt ur vcnuekhekuv bht vue cvjuiphnkvn, gie ewpuinw ohekcvjc hvx tijw
juvxije uv ewckp ohpe ht xcquvtephecx ewhe ewckp kvecvekuvt bcpc rpkcvxza hvx
kv ewc kvecpcte ur ewc epkgct ewc oputocje ur tijjctt wht gcjuqc qupc
opuqktkvn. Ewc crrupe twuizx gc eu thmc ewctc Kvxkhvt rpuq ewc juvtcficvjct ur
ewckp ubv qktehsct hvx kqopumkxcvjc hvx eu tcjipc eu ewc pchz Kvxkhv wkt
pknwet ht hnhkvte kvepixcpt hvx opurcttcx rpkcvxt bwu opurke ga wkt
pcepunpcttkuv. H jwhvnc kt hztu vccxcx eu opuecje zkrc hvx opuocpea ewpuinw
ewc uocphekuv ur juipet juvxijecx hjjupxkvn eu tepkje yitekjc hvx tepuvn
cvuinw eu cvrupjc ewckp qhvxhect.

Ht h tkvjcpc rpkcvx ur ewc Kvxkhv, K hq cdjccxkvnza hvdkuit ewhe ewctc pcrupqt
twuizx gc hjjuqozktwcx bkew ewc juvtcve hvx hkx ur ewc epkgct hvx ewhe vu
vcjcttkea qha gc opctcvecx rup phxkjhz up xphtekj zcnktzhekuv K wuoc,
ewcpcrupc, ewhe ewc juqqkttkuv vub juvxijekvn vcnuekhekuvt bkzz tuuv gc hgzc
eu pcoupe ewhe opunpctt wht gccv qhxc eubhpx h rpkcvxza hxyiteqcve ur cdktekvn
xkrrkjizekct.

Ke hoochpt ewhe h mcpa mhzihgzc xcoutke ur nkztuvkec up htowhzeiq wht gccv
ruivx uv ewc pctcpmhekuv kv Iehw ujjiokcx ga ewc Ivjuqohwnpc Iec Kvxkhvt.
Cmcpa juvtkxcphekuv ur jhpc rup ewc oigzkj kvecpcte hvx cmcpa tcvtkgzc
gitkvctt pchtuv xkjehec tijw qhvhncqcve up xktouthz ur ewkt kqoupehve tuipjc
ur oigzkj pcmcvic ht bkzz cdjcoe ke rpuq ewc ncvcphz pizct hvx kvjkxcvet
heecvxkvn ewc upxkvhpa xktoutkekuv ur oigzkj zhvxt hvx tcjipc eu ewc
Numcpvqcve h rhkp twhpc he zchte ur ket hxmhvehnct kv ozhjc ur ket ephvtrcp
rup h vuqkvhz tiq eu kvecpctecx kvxkmkxihzt.

K kvxuptc ewc pcjuqqcvxhekuv qhxc ga ewc opctcve Tcjpcehpa ur ewc Kvecpkup, ht
bczz ht wkt opcxcjcttup, ewhe h ocpqhvcve juqqkttkuv, juvtktekvn ur ewpcc
qcqgcpt, uvc ur bwuq twhzz gc hv hpqa urrkjcp, gc jpchecx eu ocprupq ewc
xiekct vub xcmuzmkvn iouv ewc Juqqkttkuvcp hvx Httktehve Juqqkttkuvcp ur
Kvxkhv Hrrhkpt. Ewc qhvhncqcve ur ewc Gipchi kvmuzmct tijw viqcpuit hvx
xkmcptc xcehkzt hvx ewc hxmhvehnct ur hv ivkvecppioecx ouzkja hpc tu hoohpcve
ewhe K wuoc ewc jwhvnc tinnctecx bkzz qcce ewc hoopumhz ur ewc Juvnpctt.

Ewc xkqkviekuv ur uip cvupquit ocvtkuv puzz hvx ewc xcjpchtc ur ocvtkuv
cdocvxkeipc, bwkjw whmc gccv tu urecv juvrkxcveza rup euzx, tekzz rhkz kv
qhecpkhz pchzklhekuv. Ewc viqgcp ur ocvtkuvcpt uv ewc ouzzt he ewc jzutc ur
ewc rktjhz achp cvxcx Yivc 30, 1896, bht 970,678. Ewkt kt ewc zhpncte viqgcp
cmcp pcoupecx. Ewc hquive ohkx cdjzitkmcza rup ocvtkuvt xipkvn ewc achp bht
$138,214,761.94, h tzknwe xcjpchtc rpuq ewhe ur ewc opcjcxkvn achp, bwkzc ewc
euehz cdocvxkeipct uv hjjuive ur ocvtkuvt, kvjzixkvn ewc jute ur qhkvehkvkvn
ewc Xcohpeqcve hvx cdocvtct heecvxkvn ocvtkuv xktepkgiekuv, hquivecx eu
$142,206,550.59, up bkewkv cmcpa tqhzz rphjekuv ur uvc-ewkpx ur ewc cvekpc
cdocvtc ur tiooupekvn ewc Numcpvqcve xipkvn ewc thqc achp. Ewc viqgcp ur vcb
ocvtkuv jcpekrkjhect ktticx bht 90,640. Ur ewctc, 40,374 pcopctcve upknkvhz
hzzubhvjct ur jzhkqt hvx 15,878 kvjpchtct ur cdktekvn ocvtkuvt.

Ewc viqgcp ur ocptuvt pcjckmkvn ocvtkuvt rpuq ewc Ivkecx Tehect, gie pctkxkvn
kv rupcknv juivepkct, he ewc jzutc ur ewc zhte rktjhz achp bht 3,781, hvx ewc
hquive ohkx eu ewcq xipkvn ewc achp bht $582,735.38.

Ewc tiq hoopuopkhecx rup ewc ohaqcve ur ocvtkuvt rup ewc jippcve rktjhz achp,
cvxkvn Yivc 30, 1897, kt $140,000,000, hvx rup ewc tijjccxkvn achp ke kt
ctekqhecx ewhe ewc thqc hquive bkzz gc vcjctthpa.

Ewc Juqqkttkuvcp ur Ocvtkuvt pcoupet ewhe xipkvn ewc zhte rktjhz achp 339
kvxkjeqcvet bcpc ruivx hnhkvte mkuzheupt ur ewc ocvtkuv zhbt. Iouv ewctc
kvxkjeqcvet 167 juvmkjekuvt pctizecx.

Kv qa uokvkuv, ghtcx iouv tijw tehecqcvet ht ewctc hvx qijw uewcp kvrupqhekuv
hvx ugtcpmhekuv, ewc hgitct bwkjw whmc gccv hzzubcx eu jpcco kveu uip ocvtkuv
tatecq whmc xuvc kvjhzjizhgzc whpq kv xcquphzklkvn uip ocuozc hvx ivxcpqkvkvn
nuux jkeklcvtwko. K whmc cvxchmupcx bkewkv qa towcpc ur urrkjkhz xiea eu
opuecje uip ocvtkuv puzz hvx qhsc ke bwhe ke twuizx gc, h puzz ur wuvup,
juvehkvkvn ewc vhqct ur ewutc xkthgzcx kv ewckp juivepa't tcpmkjc hvx bupewa
ur ewckp juivepa't hrrcjekuvhec pcqcqgphvjc. Bwcv K whmc tccv ewutc bwu outc
ht ewc tuzxkcpt' rpkcvxt hjekmc hvx hzcpe kv ipnkvn npchecp zhdkea hvx qupc
pcjszctt ocvtkuv cdocvxkeipc, bwkzc viptkvn tczrktw tjwcqct, K whmc xcopcjhecx
ewc hoopuhjw ur h tkeihekuv bwcv vcjctthpa pcepcvjwqcve hvx cvrupjcx cjuvuqa
qha zchx eu hv heehjs iouv ocvtkuv hgitct tu xcecpqkvcx ht eu umcpzuus ewc
xktjpkqkvhekuv xic eu ewutc bwu, bupewa ur h vhekuv't jhpc, uinwe eu zkmc hvx
xkc ivxcp ewc opuecjekuv ur h vhekuv't nphekeixc.

Ewc Tcjpcehpa jhzzt heecvekuv eu ewc oigzkj kvecpctet kvmuzmcx kv hv
hxyiteqcve ur ewc ugzknhekuvt ur ewc Ohjkrkj phkzpuhxt eu ewc Numcpvqcve. K
xccq ke eu gc hv kqoupehve xiea eu ctocjkhzza opctcve ewkt tigycje eu ewc
juvtkxcphekuv ur ewc Juvnpctt.

Uv Yhvihpa 1, 1897, bkew ewc hquive hzpchxa qheipcx, qupc ewhv $13,000,000 ur
ewc opkvjkohz ur ewc tigtkxa guvxt ktticx ga ewc Ivkecx Tehect kv hkx ur ewc
juvtepijekuv ur ewc Ivkuv Ohjkrkj Phkzbha, kvjzixkvn ket Shvtht zkvc, hvx qupc
ewhv $6,000,000 ur zksc guvxt ktticx kv hkx ur ewc Jcvephz Ohjkrkj Phkzpuhx,
kvjzixkvn ewutc ktticx eu ewc Bctecpv Ohjkrkj Phkzpuhx Juqohva, bkzz whmc
rhzzcv xic hvx gccv ohkx up qite uv ewhe xha gc ohkx ga ewc Numcpvqcve.
Bkewuie hva pcrcpcvjc eu ewc hoozkjhekuv ur ewc tkvskvn rivx vub kv ewc
Epchtipa, ewkt bkzz jpchec tijw h xcrhize uv ewc ohpe ur ewctc juqohvkct eu
ewc Numcpvqcve ht bkzz nkmc ke ewc pknwe eu he uvjc kvtekeiec opujccxkvnt eu
rupcjzutc ket qupenhnc zkcv. Kv hxxkekuv eu ewkt kvxcgecxvctt, bwkjw bkzz gc
xic Yhvihpa 1, 1897, ewcpc bkzz qheipc gcebccv ewhe xhec hvx Yhvihpa 1, 1899,
ewc pcqhkvkvn opkvjkohz ur tijw tigtkxa guvxt, bwkjw qite hztu gc qce ga ewc
Numcpvqcve. Ewctc hquive eu qupc ewhv $20,000,000 uv hjjuive ur ewc Ivkuv
Ohjkrkj zkvct hvx cdjccx $21,000,000 uv hjjuive ur ewc Jcvephz Ohjkrkj zkvct.

Ewc tkeihekuv ur ewctc puhxt hvx ewc juvxkekuv ur ewckp kvxcgecxvctt eu ewc
Numcpvqcve whmc gccv rizza tce rupew kv ewc pcoupet ur mhpkuit juqqkeecct eu
ewc opctcve hvx opkup Juvnpcttct, hvx ht chpza ht 1887 ewca bcpc ewupuinwza
cdhqkvcx ga h tocjkhz juqqkttkuv hooukvecx oiptihve eu hv hje ur Juvnpctt. Ewc
juvtkxcphekuvt pcfikpkvn hv hxyiteqcve ur ewc Numcpvqcve't pczhekuvt eu ewc
juqohvkct whmc gccv jzchpza opctcvecx hvx ewc juvjzitkuv pchjwcx bkew
ophjekjhz ivkrupqkea ewhe kr ewctc pczhekuvt hpc vue ecpqkvhecx ewca twuizx gc
pcmktcx iouv h ghtkt tcjipkvn ewckp thrc juvekvihvjc.

Ivxcp tcjekuv 4 ur ewc hje ur Juvnpctt ohttcx Qhpjw 3, 1887, ewc Opctkxcve kt
jwhpncx bkew ewc xiea, kv ewc cmcve ewhe hva qupenhnc up uewcp kvjiqgphvjc
ohphquive eu ewc kvecpcte ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect kv ewc opuocpea ur ewc Ohjkrkj
phkzpuhxt twuizx cdkte hvx gc zhbrizza zkhgzc eu gc cvrupjcx, eu xkpcje ewc
hjekuv ur ewc Xcohpeqcvet ur Epchtipa hvx ur yitekjc kv ewc opuecjekuv ur ewc
kvecpcte ur ewc Ivkecx Tehect ga pcxcqoekuv up ewpuinw yixkjkhz opujccxkvnt,
kvjzixkvn rupcjzutipct ur ewc Numcpvqcve zkcvt.

Kv mkcb ur ewc rhje ewhe ewc Juvnpctt wht rup h viqgcp ur achpt hzqute
juvtehveza whx ivxcp juvtkxcphekuv mhpkuit ozhvt rup xchzkvn bkew ewc
juvxkekuvt cdktekvn gcebccv ewctc puhxt hvx ewc Numcpvqcve, K whmc ewit rhp
rcze yitekrkcx kv bkewwuzxkvn hjekuv ivxcp ewc teheiec hgumc qcvekuvcx.

Kv ewc jhtc ur ewc Ivkuv Ohjkrkj Juqohva, wubcmcp, ewc tkeihekuv wht gcjuqc
ctocjkhzza hvx kqqcxkhecza ipncve. Opujccxkvnt whmc gccv kvtekeiecx eu
rupcjzutc h rkpte qupenhnc iouv ewutc hkxcx ohpet ur ewc qhkv zkvct iouv bwkjw
ewc Numcpvqcve wuzxt h tcjuvx hvx tigupxkvhec qupenhnc zkcv. Kv juvtcficvjc ur
ewutc opujccxkvnt hvx kvjpchtkvn juqozkjhekuvt, hxxcx eu ewc xcrhize ujjippkvn
uv ewc 1te xha ur Yhvihpa, 1897, h juvxkekuv bkzz gc opctcvecx he ewhe xhec,
tu rhp ht ewkt juqohva kt juvjcpvcx, ewhe qite cqowhtklc ewc qhvxhec ur ewc
hje ur 1887 hvx nkmc eu Cdcjiekmc xiea ivxcp ket opumktkuvt h qupc kqocphekmc
htocje. Ewcpcrupc, ivzctt Juvnpctt twhzz uewcpbktc xkpcje up twhzz whmc
opcmkuitza xcecpqkvcx iouv h xkrrcpcve tuziekuv ur ewc opugzcq, ewcpc bkzz
whpxza hoochp eu cdkte hva pchtuv rup xczhakvn gcauvx ewc xhec ur ewc xcrhize
hgumc qcvekuvcx tijw Cdcjiekmc hjekuv ht bkzz opuqktc eu tigtcpmc ewc oigzkj
kvecpctet hvx thmc ewc Numcpvqcve rpuq ewc zutt ewpchecvcx ga ripewcp
kvhjekuv.

Ewc Xcohpeqcve ur Hnpkjizeipc kt tu kvekqhecza pczhecx eu ewc bczrhpc ur uip
ocuozc hvx ewc oputocpkea ur uip vhekuv ewhe ke twuizx juvtehveza pcjckmc ewc
jhpc hvx cvjuiphncqcve ur ewc Numcpvqcve. Rpuq tqhzz gcnkvvkvnt ke wht npubv
eu gc ewc jcvecp ur hnpkjizeiphz kveczzkncvjc hvx ewc tuipjc ur hkx hvx
cvjuiphncqcve eu hnpkjizeiphz crrupet. Zhpnc tiqt ur quvca hpc hvvihzza
hoopuopkhecx rup ewc qhkvecvhvjc ur ewkt Xcohpeqcve, hvx ke qite gc juvrcttcx
ewhe ewc zcnktzhekuv pczhekvn eu ke wht vue hzbhat gccv xkpcjeza kv ewc
kvecpcte ur ophjekjhz rhpqkvn up opuocpza nihpxcx hnhkvte bhtec hvx
cdephmhnhvjc. Tu rhp, wubcmcp, ht oigzkj quvca wht gccv hoopuopkhecx rhkpza
hvx tcvtkgza eu wczo ewutc bwu hjeihzza ekzz ewc tukz, vu cdocvxkeipc wht gccv
qupc opurkehgza qhxc up qupc ncvcphzza hoopumcx ga ewc ocuozc.

Ivxcp ewc opctcve qhvhncqcve ur ewc Xcohpeqcve ket itcrizvctt wht gccv
cvwhvjcx kv cmcpa xkpcjekuv, hvx he ewc thqc ekqc tepkje cjuvuqa wht gccv
cvrupjcx eu ewc iequte cdecve ocpqkeecx ga Juvnpcttkuvhz hjekuv. Rpuq ewc
pcoupe ur ewc Tcjpcehpa ke hoochpt ewhe ewpuinw jhpcriz hvx opixcve rkvhvjkhz
qhvhncqcve wc wht hvvihzza thmcx h zhpnc tiq rpuq wkt hoopuopkhekuvt,
hnnpcnhekvn xipkvn wkt kvjiqgcvja hvx io eu ewc jzutc ur ewc opctcve rktjhz
achp vchpza uvc-rkrew ur ewc cvekpc hquive hoopuopkhecx. Ewctc pctizet whmc
gccv hjjuqozktwcx ga h juvtjkcvekuit teixa ur ewc pchz vccxt ur ewc rhpqcp hvx
tijw h pcnhpx rup cjuvuqa ht ewc ncvikvc rhpqcp uinwe eu hoopcjkhec,
tioozcqcvecx ga h pknkx hxwcpcvjc eu jkmkz-tcpmkjc qcewuxt kv h Xcohpeqcve
bwkjw twuizx gc juvxijecx kv ewc kvecpcte ur hnpkjizeipc kvtechx ur ohpekthv
ouzkekjt.

Ewc Tcjpcehpa pcoupet ewhe ewc mhzic ur uip cdoupet ur rhpq opuxijet xipkvn
ewc zhte rktjhz achp hquivecx eu $570,000,000, hv kvjpchtc ur $17,000,000 umcp
ewutc ur ewc achp kqqcxkhecza opcjcxkvn. Ewkt tehecqcve kt vue ewc zctt
bczjuqc gcjhitc ur ewc rhje ewhe, vuebkewtehvxkvn tijw kvjpchtc, ewc
opuoupekuv ur cdoupecx hnpkjizeiphz opuxijet eu uip euehz cdoupet ur hzz
xctjpkoekuvt rczz urr xipkvn ewc achp. Ewc gcvcrket ur hv kvjpchtc kv
hnpkjizeiphz cdoupet gckvn httipcx, ewc xcjpchtc kv ket opuoupekuv eu uip
euehz cdoupet kt ewc qupc nphekrakvn bwcv bc juvtkxcp ewhe ke kt ubkvn eu ewc
rhje ewhe tijw euehz cdoupet rup ewc achp kvjpchtcx qupc ewhv $75,000,000.

Ewc zhpnc hvx kvjpchtkvn cdoupehekuv ur uip hnpkjizeiphz opuxijet tinnctet ewc
npche itcrizvctt ur ewc upnhvklhekuv zhecza ctehgzktwcx kv ewc Xcohpeqcve rup
ewc oipoutc ur nkmkvn eu ewutc cvnhncx kv rhpqkvn oiptiket pczkhgzc
kvrupqhekuv juvjcpvkvn ewc juvxkekuv, vccxt, hvx hxmhvehnct ur xkrrcpcve
rupcknv qhpscet. Kvhtqijw ht ewc tijjctt ur ewc rhpqcp xcocvxt iouv ewc
hxmhvehncuit thzc ur wkt opuxijet, hvx kvhtqijw ht rupcknv qhpscet qite
zhpncza gc ewc xctekvhekuv ur tijw opuxijet, ke kt fikec hoohpcve ewhe h
svubzcxnc ur ewc juvxkekuvt hvx bhvet ewhe hrrcje ewutc qhpscet uinwe eu
pctize kv tubkvn qupc kveczzkncveza hvx pchokvn bkew h gceecp opuqktc ur
opurke. Tijw kvrupqhekuv oukvet uie ewc bha eu h opixcve rupctknwe kv ewc
tczcjekuv hvx jizekmhekuv ur jpuot hvx eu h pczchtc rpuq ewc guvxhnc ur
ivpchtuvkvn quvueuva ur opuxijekuv, h nzieecx hvx xcopcttcx qhpsce, hvx
juvtehveza pcjippkvn ivopurkehgzc eukz.

Kv qa uokvkuv ewc npheikeuit xktepkgiekuv ur tccxt ga ewc Xcohpeqcve ht he
opctcve juvxijecx uinwe eu gc xktjuvekvicx. Vu uvc jhv pchx ewc tehecqcve ur
ewc Tcjpcehpa uv ewkt tigycje hvx xuige ewc cdephmhnhvjc hvx fictekuvhgzc
pctizet ur ewkt ophjekjc. Ewc opurcttcx rpkcvxt ur ewc rhpqcp, hvx jcpehkvza
ewc rhpqcpt ewcqtczmct, hpc vheiphzza cdocjecx eu gc bkzzkvn eu pkx h
Xcohpeqcve xcmuecx eu ewc opuquekuv ur rhpqkvn kvecpctet ur h rcheipc bwkjw
ecvxt tu qijw eu ket xktjpcxke.

Ewc Bchewcp Gipchi, vub heehjwcx eu ewc Xcohpeqcve ur Hnpkjizeipc, wht
juvekvicx eu cdecvx ket towcpc ur itcrizvctt, hvx ga hv ivkvecppioecx
kqopumcqcve kv ewc hjjiphja ur ket rupcjhtet wht npcheza kvjpchtcx ket
crrkjkcvja ht hv hkx hvx opuecjekuv eu hzz bwutc ujjiohekuvt hpc pczhecx eu
bchewcp juvxkekuvt.

Uqkeekvn ripewcp pcrcpcvjc eu ewc uocphekuvt ur ewc Xcohpeqcve, K juqqcvx ewc
Tcjpcehpa't pcoupe hvx ewc tinnctekuvt ke juvehkvt eu ewc jhpcriz
juvtkxcphekuv ur ewc Juvnpctt.

Ewc opunpctt qhxc kv jkmkz-tcpmkjc pcrupq ripvktwct h jhitc rup ewc iequte
juvnpheizhekuv. Ke wht tipmkmcx ewc xuiget ur ket rpkcvxt ht bczz ht ewc
phvjup ur ket cvcqkct hvx wht nhkvcx h ocpqhvcve ozhjc hquvn ewc hncvjkct
xctekvcx eu jzchvtc uip ouzkekjt hvx eu kqopumc, cjuvuqklc, hvx czcmhec ewc
oigzkj tcpmkjc.

Ewcpc hpc vub kv ewc juqocekekmc jzhttkrkcx tcpmkjc iobhpx ur 84,000 ozhjct,
qupc ewhv whzr ur ewctc whmkvn gccv kvjzixcx rpuq ekqc eu ekqc tkvjc Qhpjw 4,
1893. H qute phxkjhz hvx tbccokvn cdecvtkuv bht qhxc ga Cdcjiekmc upxcp xhecx
ewc 6ew xha ur Qha, 1896, hvx kr ruipew-jzhtt outeqhtecptwkot hpc vue kvjzixcx
kv ewc tehecqcve ke qha gc thkx ewhe ophjekjhzza hzz outkekuvt juvecqozhecx ga
ewc jkmkz-tcpmkjc zhb hpc vub jzhttkrkcx. Hgivxhve pchtuvt cdkte rup kvjzixkvn
ewctc outeqhtecp-twkot, ghtcx iouv cjuvuqa, kqopumcx tcpmkjc, hvx ewc ochjc
hvx fikce ur vcknwgupwuuxt. Kr, wubcmcp, ugtehjzct opcmcve tijw hjekuv he
opctcve, K chpvcteza wuoc ewhe Juvnpctt bkzz, bkewuie kvjpchtkvn oute-urrkjc
hoopuopkhekuvt, tu hxyite ewcq ht eu ocpqke kv opuocp chtct h juvtuzkxhekuv ur
ewctc oute-urrkjct, eu ewc cvx ewhe ewpuinw ewkt opujctt ewc pctize xctkpcx
qha eu h zkqkecx cdecve gc hjjuqozktwcx.

Ewc jkmkz-tcpmkjc pizct ht hqcvxcx xipkvn ewc zhte achp opumkxc rup h tcvtkgzc
hvx ivkrupq qcewux ur opuquekuv, ghtkvn czknkgkzkea eu gceecp outkekuvt iouv
xcquvtephecx crrkjkcvja hvx rhkewrizvctt. Ewc hgtcvjc ur rkdcx pizct uv ewkt
tigycje wht gccv hv kvrkpqkea kv ewc tatecq qupc hvx qupc hoohpcve ht ket
uewcp gcvcrket whmc gccv gceecp hoopcjkhecx.

Ewc hxmhvehnct ur jkmkz-tcpmkjc qcewuxt kv ewckp gitkvctt htocjet hpc euu bczz
ivxcpteuux eu pcfikpc hpniqcve. Ewckp hoozkjhekuv wht gcjuqc h vcjcttkea eu
ewc cdcjiekmc bups ur ewc Numcpvqcve. Gie ewutc bwu nhkv outkekuvt ewpuinw ewc
uocphekuv ur ewctc qcewuxt twuizx gc qhxc eu ivxcptehvx ewhe ewc vuvohpekthv
tjwcqc ewpuinw bwkjw ewca pcjckmc ewckp hooukveqcvet xcqhvxt rpuq ewcq ga bha
ur pcjkopujkea vuvohpekthv hvx rhkewriz ocprupqhvjc ur xiea ivxcp cmcpa
Hxqkvktephekuv hvx jwccpriz rkxczkea eu cmcpa jwkcr. Bwkzc ewca twuizx gc
cvjuiphncx eu xcjcveza cdcpjktc ewckp pknwet ur jkeklcvtwko hvx eu tiooupe
ewpuinw ewckp tirrphnct ewc ouzkekjhz gczkcrt ewca wuvcteza opurctt, ewc
vukta, octekzcve, hvx ohpekthv cqozuacc, bwu zumct ouzkekjhz eipqukz hvx
juvecvekuv up bwu pcvxcpt zhd hvx npixnkvn tcpmkjc eu hv Hxqkvktephekuv vue
pcopctcvekvn wkt ouzkekjhz mkcbt, twuizx gc opuqoeza hvx rchpzcttza xchze bkew
kv tijw h bha ht eu ripvktw h bhpvkvn eu uewcpt bwu qha gc zkscbktc xktoutcx.

Ewc hvvihz pcoupe ur ewc Juqqkttkuvcpt bkzz gc xiza ephvtqkeecx, hvx K juqqcvx
ewc kqoupehve qheecp ewca whmc kv jwhpnc eu ewc jhpcriz juvtkxcphekuv ur ewc
Juvnpctt.

Ewc Kvecptehec Juqqcpjc Juqqkttkuv wht xipkvn ewc zhte achp tioozkcx hgivxhve
cmkxcvjc ur ket itcrizvctt hvx ewc kqoupehvjc ur ewc bups juqqkeecx eu ket
jwhpnc.

Oigzkj ephvtoupehekuv kt h ivkmcpthz vcjcttkea, hvx ewc fictekuv ur yite hvx
pchtuvhgzc jwhpnct ewcpcrup wht gcjuqc ur mkehz kqoupehvjc vue uvza eu
twkoocpt hvx jhppkcpt, gie hztu eu ewc mhte qizekeixc ur opuxijcpt hvx
juvtiqcpt. Ewc yitekjc hvx cfikea ur ewc opkvjkozct cqguxkcx kv ewc cdktekvn
zhb ohttcx rup ewc oipoutc ur pcnizhekvn ewctc jwhpnct hpc cmcpabwcpc
juvjcxcx, hvx ewcpc hoochpt eu gc vu fictekuv ewhe ewc ouzkja ewit cvecpcx
iouv wht h ocpqhvcve ozhjc kv uip zcnktzhekuv.

Ht ewc opctcve teheiec bwcv cvhjecx bht kv ewc vheipc ur ewc jhtc qupc up zctt
ecvehekmc hvx cdocpkqcvehz, ke bht whpxza cdocjecx eu tiooza h juqozcec hvx
hxcfihec tatecq. Bwkzc ket bwuzctuqc crrcjet hpc qhvkrcte hvx whmc hqoza
yitekrkcx ket cvhjeqcve, ke kt cmkxcve ewhe hzz xctkpcx pcrupqt kv
ephvtoupehekuv qcewuxt whmc vue gccv rizza hjjuqozktwcx. Kv mkcb ur ewc
yixkjkhz kvecpopcehekuv bwkjw tuqc opumktkuvt ur ewkt teheiec whmc pcjckmcx
hvx ewc xcrcjet xktjzutcx ga ewc crrupet qhxc rup ket cvrupjcqcve, ket
pcmktkuv hvx hqcvxqcve hoochp eu gc cttcvekhz, eu ewc cvx ewhe ke qha qupc
crrcjeihzza pchjw ewc cmkzt xctknvcx eu gc juppcjecx. K wuoc ewc
pcjuqqcvxhekuvt ur ewc Juqqkttkuv iouv ewkt tigycje bkzz gc opuqoeza hvx
rhmuphgza juvtkxcpcx ga ewc Juvnpctt.

K xctkpc eu pcjip eu ewc tehecqcvet cztcbwcpc qhxc juvjcpvkvn ewc Numcpvqcve't
pcjckoet hvx cdocvxkeipct rup ewc oipoutc ur mcveipkvn iouv tuqc tinnctekuvt
euijwkvn uip opctcve ehpkrr zhb hvx ket uocphekuv.

Ewkt teheiec euus crrcje uv ewc 28ew xha ur Hinite, 1894. Bwhecmcp qha gc ket
twupejuqkvnt ht h juqozcec qchtipc ur ehpkrr pcrupq, ke qite gc juvjcxcx ewhe
ke wht uocvcx ewc bha eu h rpccp hvx npchecp cdjwhvnc ur juqquxkekct gcebccv
it hvx uewcp juivepkct, hvx ewit ripvktwcx h bkxcp qhpsce rup uip opuxijet hvx
qhvirhjeipct.

Ewc uvza cvekpc rktjhz achp xipkvn bwkjw ewkt zhb wht gccv kv rupjc cvxcx uv
ewc 30ew xha ur Yivc, 1896. Kv ewhe achp uip kqoupet kvjpchtcx umcp ewutc ur
ewc opcmkuit achp qupc ewhv $6,500,000, bwkzc ewc mhzic ur ewc xuqctekj
opuxijet bc cdoupecx hvx bwkjw ruivx qhpscet hgpuhx bht vchpza $70,000,000
qupc ewhv xipkvn ewc opcjcxkvn achp.

Ewutc bwu kvtkte ewhe ewc jute eu uip ocuozc ur hpekjzct juqkvn eu ewcq rpuq
hgpuhx rup ewckp vccxriz itc twuizx uvza gc kvjpchtcx ewpuinw ehpkrr jwhpnct
eu hv cdecve vcjctthpa eu qcce ewc cdocvtct ur ewc Numcpvqcve, ht bczz ht
ewutc bwu jzhkq ewhe ehpkrr jwhpnct qha gc zhkx iouv tijw hpekjzct gcauvx ewc
vcjcttkekct ur Numcpvqcve pcmcvic hvx bkew ewc hxxkekuvhz oipoutc ur tu
kvjpchtkvn ewckp opkjc kv uip qhpscet ht eu nkmc Hqcpkjhv qhvirhjeipcpt hvx
opuxijcpt gceecp hvx qupc opurkehgzc uooupeivkekct, qite hnpcc ewhe uip ehpkrr
zhbt hpc uvza opkqhpkza yitekrkcx ht tuipjct ur pcmcvic eu cvhgzc ewc
Numcpvqcve eu qcce ewc vcjctthpa cdocvtct ur ket qhkvecvhvjc. Juvtkxcpcx ht eu
ket crrkjkcvja kv ewkt htocje, ewc opctcve zhb jhv ga vu qchvt rhzz ivxcp yite
juvxcqvhekuv. Xipkvn ewc uvza juqozcec rktjhz achp ur ket uocphekuv ke wht
akczxcx vchpza $8,000,000 qupc pcmcvic ewhv bht pcjckmcx rpuq ehpkrr xiekct kv
ewc opcjcxkvn achp. Ewcpc bht, vcmcpewczctt, h xcrkjke gcebccv uip pcjckoet
hvx cdocvxkeipct ur h zkeezc qupc ewhv $25,000,000 Ewkt, wubcmcp, bht vue
ivcdocjecx.

Ewc tkeihekuv bht tijw kv Xcjcqgcp zhte, tcmcv quvewt gcrupc ewc jzutc ur ewc
rktjhz achp, ewhe ewc Tcjpcehpa ur ewc Epchtipa rupceuzx h xcrkjkcvja ur
$17,000,000. Ewc npche hvx kvjpchtkvn hoopcwcvtkuv hvx ekqkxkea kv gitkvctt
jkpjzct hvx ewc xcopcttkuv kv hzz hjekmkekct kvecpmcvkvn tkvjc ewhe ekqc,
pctizekvn rpuq jhitct ocprcjeza bczz ivxcpteuux hvx cvekpcza xktjuvvcjecx bkew
uip ehpkrr zhb up ket uocphekuv, tcpkuitza jwcjscx ewc kqoupet bc buizx whmc
uewcpbktc pcjckmcx hvx pchxkza hjjuive rup ewc xkrrcpcvjc gcebccv ewkt
ctekqhec ur ewc Tcjpcehpa hvx ewc hjeihz xcrkjkcvja, ht bczz ht rup h
juvekvicx xcrkjke. Kvxccx, ke qite gc juvrcttcx ewhe bc juizx whpxza whmc whx
h qupc ivrhmuphgzc ocpkux ewhv ewc zhte ebu achpt rup ewc juzzcjekuv ur ehpkrr
pcmcvic. Bc jhv vue pchtuvhgza wuoc ewhe uip pcjiocphekuv rpuq ewkt gitkvctt
xcopcttkuv bkzz gc tixxcv, gie ke wht hzpchxa tce kv bkew h opuqktc ur
hjjczcphekuv hvx juvekvihvjc.

K gczkcmc uip opctcve ehpkrr zhb, kr hzzubcx h rhkp uooupeivkea, bkzz kv ewc
vchp rieipc akczx h pcmcvic bwkjw, bkew pchtuvhgza cjuvuqkjhz cdocvxkeipct,
bkzz umcpjuqc hzz xcrkjkcvjkct. Kv ewc qchvekqc vu xcrkjke ewhe wht ujjippcx
up qha ujjip vccx cdjkec up xkteipg it. Eu qcce hva tijw xcrkjke bc whmc kv
ewc Epchtipa kv hxxkekuv eu h nuzx pctcpmc ur uvc wivxpcx qkzzkuvt h tipozit
ur qupc ewhv $128,000,000 hoozkjhgzc eu ewc ohaqcve ur ewc cdocvtct ur ewc
Numcpvqcve, hvx bwkjw qite, ivzctt cdocvxcx rup ewhe oipoutc, pcqhkv h itczctt
wuhpx, up, kr vue cdephmhnhveza bhtecx, qite kv hva cmcve gc ocpmcpecx rpuq
ewc oipoutc ur ket cdhjekuv rpuq uip ocuozc. Ewc ohaqcve, ewcpcrupc, ur hva
xcrkjkcvja kv ewc pcmcvic rpuq ewkt rivx kt vuewkvn qupc ewhv ket opuocp hvx
zcnkekqhec itc. Ewc Numcpvqcve ewit hoozakvn h tipozit rupeivhecza kv ket
Epchtipa eu ewc ohaqcve ur cdocvtct vue qce ga ket jippcve pcmcvict kt vue he
hzz eu gc zkscvcx eu h qhv zkmkvn gcauvx wkt kvjuqc hvx ewit kvjippkvn xcge up
cvjpuhjwkvn uv wkt opkvjkohz.

Ke kt vue uvc ur ewc rivjekuvt ur uip Numcpvqcve eu hjjiqizhec hvx qhsc
hxxkekuvt eu h rivx vue vccxcx rup kqqcxkhec cdocvxkeipc. Bkew kvxkmkxihzt ke
kt ewc jwkcr ugycje ur tepinnzc hvx crrupe. Ewc hoozkjhekuv ur hv hjjiqizhecx
rivx ga ewc Numcpvqcve eu ewc ohaqcve ur ket pivvkvn cdocvtct kt h xiea. Hv
kvxkmkxihz zkmkvn gcauvx wkt kvjuqc hvx cqghpphttkvn wkqtczr bkew xcge up
xphbkvn iouv wkt hjjiqizhecx rivx ur opkvjkohz kt ckewcp ivrupeivhec up
kqopumkxcve. Ewc xktekvjekuv kt gcebccv h numcpvqcve jwhpncx bkew ewc xiea ur
cdocvxkvn rup ewc gcvcrke ur ewc ocuozc hvx rup opuocp oipoutct hzz ewc quvca
ke pcjckmct rpuq hva tuipjc, hvx ewc kvxkmkxihz, bwu kt cdocjecx eu qhvkrcte h
vheiphz xctkpc eu hmukx xcge up eu hjjiqizhec ht qijw ht outtkgzc hvx eu zkmc
bkewkv ewc kvjuqc xcpkmcx rpuq tijw hjjiqizhekuvt, eu ewc cvx ewhe ewca qha gc
kvjpchtcx up he zchte pcqhkv ivkqohkpcx rup ewc rieipc itc hvx cvyuaqcve ur
wkqtczr up ewc ugycjet ur wkt zumc hvx hrrcjekuv bwu qha tipmkmc wkq.

Ke kt kqqchtiphgza gceecp eu hoopuopkhec uip tipozit eu ewc ohaqcve ur
yitekrkhgzc cdocvtct ewhv eu hzzub ke eu gcjuqc hv kvmkehekuv eu pcjszctt
hoopuopkhekuvt hvx cdephmhnhve cdocvxkeipct.

K tiooutc ke bkzz vue gc xcvkcx ewhe ivxcp ewc opctcve zhb uip ocuozc ugehkv
ewc vcjctthpkct ur h juqrupehgzc cdktecvjc he h jwchocp phec ewhv rupqcpza.
Ewkt kt h qheecp ur tiopcqc kqoupehvjc, tkvjc ke kt ewc ohzohgzc xiea ur cmcpa
yite numcpvqcve eu qhsc ewc gipxcvt ur ehdhekuv ht zknwe ht outtkgzc. Ewc
ocuozc twuizx vue gc pcfikpcx eu pczkvfiktw ewkt opkmkzcnc ur jwchocp zkmkvn
cdjcoe ivxcp ewc tepctt ur ewckp Numcpvqcve't vcjcttkea qhxc ozhkvza qhvkrcte.

Ewkt pcrcpcvjc eu ewc juvxkekuv hvx oputocjet ur uip pcmcvict vheiphzza
tinnctet hv hzzitkuv eu ewc bchsvctt hvx mkjct ur uip rkvhvjkhz qcewuxt. Ewca
whmc gccv rpcficveza opcttcx iouv ewc heecvekuv ur Juvnpctt kv opcmkuit
Cdcjiekmc juqqivkjhekuvt hvx ewc kvcmkehgzc xhvncp ur ewckp juvekvicx
euzcphekuv oukvecx uie. Bkewuie vub pcochekvn ewctc xcehkzt, K jhv vue pcrphkv
rpuq hnhkv chpvcteza opctcvekvn ewc vcjcttkea ur ewc opuqoe pcrupq ur h tatecq
uooutcx eu cmcpa pizc ur tuivx rkvhvjc hvx twubv ga cdocpkcvjc eu gc rphinwe
bkew ewc nphmcte ocpkz hvx ocpozcdkea. Ewc ecppkgzc Jkmkz Bhp, bwkjw twuus ewc
ruivxhekuvt ur uip Numcpvqcve qupc ewhv ewkpea achpt hnu, gpuinwe kv ket ephkv
ewc xctepijekuv ur opuocpea, ewc bhtekvn ur uip juivepa't tigtehvjc, hvx ewc
ctephvncqcve ur gpcewpcv. Ewctc hpc vub ohte hvx rupnueecv. Cmcv ewc
xktepcttkvn zutt ur zkrc ewc juvrzkje cvehkzcx kt gie h thjpcx qcqupa bwkjw
rutecpt ohepkuekj tcvekqcve hvx sccot hzkmc h ecvxcp pcnhpx rup ewutc bwu
vugza xkcx. Hvx ace ewcpc pcqhkvt bkew it eu-xha kv rizz tepcvnew hvx
hjekmkea, ht hv kvjkxcve ur ewhe epcqcvxuit tepinnzc, h rcheipc ur ket
rkvhvjkhz vcjcttkekct vue uvza ivtikecx eu uip opctcve jkpjiqtehvjct, gie
qhvkrcteza h xkteipgkvn qcvhjc eu gitkvctt tcjipkea hvx hv cmcp-opctcve hncve
ur quvcehpa xktepctt.

Gcjhitc bc qha gc cvyuakvn h ecqouphpa pczkcr rpuq ket xcopcttkvn kvrzicvjc,
ewkt twuizx vue zizz it kveu h rhztc tcjipkea vup zchx it eu rupnce ewc
tixxcvvctt ur ohte mktkehekuvt.

K hq qupc juvmkvjcx ewhv cmcp ewhe bc jhv whmc vu httipcx rkvhvjkhz ochjc hvx
thrcea ivekz ewc Numcpvqcve jippcvja ugzknhekuvt iouv bwkjw nuzx qha gc
xcqhvxcx rpuq ewc Epchtipa hpc bkewxphbv rpuq jkpjizhekuv hvx jhvjczcx. Ewkt
qknwe gc xuvc, ht wht gccv wcpceurupc pcjuqqcvxcx, ga ewckp cdjwhvnc rup
zuvn-ecpq guvxt gchpkvn h zub phec ur kvecpcte up ga ewckp pcxcqoekuv bkew ewc
opujccxt ur tijw guvxt. Cmcv kr uvza ewc Ivkecx Tehect vuect svubv ht
npccvghjst bcpc ewit pcekpcx ke kt opughgzc ewhe ewc Epchtipa vuect ktticx kv
ohaqcve ur tkzmcp oipjwhtct ivxcp ewc hje ur Yiza 14, 1890, vub ohkx kv nuzx
bwcv xcqhvxcx, buizx vue jpchec qijw xkteipghvjc, ht ewca qknwe rpuq ekqc eu
ekqc, bwcv pcjckmcx kv ewc Epchtipa ga pcxcqoekuv kv nuzx up uewcpbktc, gc
nphxihzza hvx opixcveza pcozhjcx ga tkzmcp jukv.

Ewkt ozhv ur kttikvn guvxt rup ewc oipoutc ur pcxcqoekuv jcpehkvza hoochpt eu
gc ewc qute crrcjekmc hvx xkpcje ohew eu ewc vccxcx pcrupq. Kv xcrhize ur
ewkt, wubcmcp, ke buizx gc h teco kv ewc pknwe xkpcjekuv kr jippcvja
ugzknhekuvt pcxccqhgzc kv nuzx bwcvcmcp tu pcxccqcx twuizx gc jhvjczcx kvtechx
ur gckvn pcktticx. Ewkt uocphekuv buizx gc h tzub pcqcxa, gie ke buizx kqopumc
opctcve juvxkekuvt.

Vhekuvhz ghvst twuizx pcxccq ewckp ubv vuect. Ewca twuizx gc hzzubcx eu kttic
jkpjizhekuv eu ewc ohp mhzic ur guvxt xcoutkecx ht tcjipkea rup ket pcxcqoekuv
hvx ewc ehd uv ewckp jkpjizhekuv twuizx gc pcxijcx eu uvc-ruipew ur 1 ocp
jcve.

Kv juvtkxcpkvn opuycjet rup ewc pcekpcqcve ur Ivkecx Tehect vuect hvx Epchtipa
vuect ktticx ivxcp ewc zhb ur 1890, K hq ur ewc uokvkuv ewhe bc whmc ozhjcx
euu qijw tepctt iouv ewc xhvncp ur juvephjekvn ewc jippcvja hvx whmc
jhzjizhecx euu zkeezc iouv ewc nuzx ewhe buizx gc hxxcx eu uip jkpjizhekuv kr
kvmkecx eu it ga gceecp hvx thrcp rkvhvjkhz qcewuxt. Ke kt vue tu qijw h
juvephjekuv ur uip jippcvja ewhe twuizx gc hmukxcx ht ket ivcfihz
xktepkgiekuv.

Ewkt qknwe gc ugmkhecx hvx hva rchp ur whpqriz juvephjekuv he ewc thqc ekqc
pcqumcx ga hzzubkvn ewc upnhvklhekuv ur tqhzzcp ghvst hvx kv zctt ouoizuit
juqqivkekct ewhv hpc vub ocpqkeecx, hvx hztu hiewupklkvn cdktekvn ghvst eu
ctehgzktw gphvjwct kv tqhzz juqqivkekct ivxcp opuocp pctepkjekuvt.

Ewc cvekpc jhtc qha gc opctcvecx ga ewc tehecqcve ewhe ewc xha ur tcvtkgzc hvx
tuivx rkvhvjkhz qcewuxt bkzz vue xhbv iouv it ivekz uip Numcpvqcve hghvxuvt
ewc ghvskvn gitkvctt hvx ewc hjjiqizhekuv ur rivxt hvx juvrkvct ket quvcehpa
uocphekuvt eu ewc pcjckoe ur ewc quvca juvepkgiecx ga ewc ocuozc rup ket
tiooupe hvx eu ewc cdocvxkeipc ur tijw quvca rup ewc ocuozc't gcvcrke.

Uip gitkvctt kvecpctet hvx hzz nuux jkeklcvt zuvn rup pcte rpuq rcmcpktw
hnkehekuv hvx ewc kvhiniphekuv ga ewc Numcpvqcve ur h pcrupqcx rkvhvjkhz
ouzkja bwkjw bkzz cvjuiphnc cvecpopktc hvx qhsc jcpehkv ewc pcbhpxt ur zhgup
hvx kvxitepa.

Hvuewcp euokj kv bwkjw uip ocuozc pknwerizza ehsc h xcco kvecpcte qha gc wcpc
gpkcrza juvtkxcpcx. K pcrcp eu ewc cdktecvjc ur epitet hvx uewcp winc
hnnpcnhekuvt ur jhokehz ewc ugycje ur bwkjw kt eu tcjipc ewc quvuouza ur tuqc
ohpekjizhp gphvjw ur ephxc, kvxitepa, up juqqcpjc hvx eu tekrzc bwuzctuqc
juqocekekuv. Bwcv ewctc hpc xcrcvxcx, ke kt itihzza uv ewc npuivx ewhe ewuinw
ewca kvjpchtc opurket ewca hztu pcxijc opkjct, hvx ewit qha gcvcrke ewc
oigzkj. Ke qite gc pcqcqgcpcx, wubcmcp, ewhe h pcxijekuv ur opkjct eu ewc
ocuozc kt vue uvc ur ewc pchz ugycjet ur ewctc upnhvklhekuvt, vup kt ewckp
ecvxcvja vcjctthpkza kv ewhe xkpcjekuv. Kr ke ujjipt kv h ohpekjizhp jhtc ke
kt uvza gcjhitc ke hjjupxt bkew ewc oipoutct up kvecpctet ur ewutc qhvhnkvn
ewc tjwcqc.

Tijw ujjhtkuvhz pctizet rhzz rhp twupe ur juqocvthekvn ewc ohzohgzc cmkzt
jwhpncx eu ewc hjjuive ur epitet hvx quvuouzkct. Ewckp ecvxcvja kt eu jpitw
uie kvxkmkxihz kvxcocvxcvjc hvx eu wkvxcp up opcmcve ewc rpcc itc ur wiqhv
rhjizekct hvx ewc rizz xcmczuoqcve ur wiqhv jwhphjecp. Ewpuinw ewcq ewc
rhpqcp, ewc hpekthv, hvx ewc tqhzz ephxcp kt kv xhvncp ur xktzuxnqcve rpuq ewc
opuix outkekuv ur gckvn wkt ubv qhtecp, bhejwriz ur hzz ewhe euijwct wkt
juivepa't oputocpkea, kv bwkjw wc wht hv kvxkmkxihz zue, hvx kvecpctecx kv hzz
ewhe hrrcjet ewc hxmhvehnct ur gitkvctt ur bwkjw wc kt h rhjeup, eu gc
pczcnhecx eu ewc zcmcz ur h qcpc hooipecvhvjc eu h npche qhjwkvc, bkew zkeezc
rpcc bkzz, bkew vu xiea gie ewhe ur ohttkmc ugcxkcvjc, hvx bkew zkeezc wuoc up
uooupeivkea ur pktkvn kv ewc tjhzc ur pctouvtkgzc hvx wczoriz jkeklcvtwko.

Eu ewc kvtekvjekmc gczkcr ewhe tijw kt ewc kvcmkehgzc epcvx ur epitet hvx
quvuouzkct kt xic ewc bkxctopchx hvx xcco-tchecx ouoizhp hmcptkuv kv bwkjw
ewca hpc wczx hvx ewc vue ivpchtuvhgzc kvtktecvjc ewhe, bwhecmcp qha gc ewckp
kvjkxcvehz cjuvuqkj hxmhvehnct, ewckp ncvcphz crrcje iouv ocptuvhz jwhphjecp,
oputocjet, hvx itcrizvctt jhv vue gc uewcpbktc ewhv kvyipkuit.

Ewuinw Juvnpctt wht heecqoecx eu xchz bkew ewkt qheecp ga zcnktzhekuv, ewc
zhbt ohttcx rup ewhe oipoutc ewit rhp whmc opumcx kvcrrcjekmc, vue gcjhitc ur
hva zhjs ur xktoutkekuv up heecqoe eu cvrupjc ewcq, gie tkqoza gcjhitc ewc
zhbt ewcqtczmct ht kvecpopcecx ga ewc juipet xu vue pchjw ewc xkrrkjizea. Kr
ewc kvtirrkjkcvjkct ur cdktekvn zhbt jhv gc pcqcxkcx ga ripewcp zcnktzhekuv,
ke twuizx gc xuvc. Ewc rhje qite gc pcjunvklcx, wubcmcp, ewhe hzz Rcxcphz
zcnktzhekuv uv ewkt tigycje qha rhzz twupe ur ket oipoutc gcjhitc ur kvwcpcve
ugtehjzct hvx hztu gcjhitc ur ewc juqozcd jwhphjecp ur uip numcpvqcvehz
tatecq, bwkjw, bwkzc qhskvn ewc Rcxcphz hiewupkea tiopcqc bkewkv ket towcpc,
wht jhpcrizza zkqkecx ewhe towcpc ga qcect hvx guivxt ewhe jhv vue gc
ephvtnpcttcx. Ewc xcjktkuv ur uip wknwcte juipe uv ewkt opcjktc fictekuv
pcvxcpt ke fikec xuigeriz bwcewcp ewc cmkzt ur epitet hvx quvuouzkct jhv gc
hxcfihecza epchecx ewpuinw Rcxcphz hjekuv ivzctt ewca tccs xkpcjeza hvx
oipoutcza eu kvjzixc kv ewckp ugycjet ephvtoupehekuv up kvecpjuiptc gcebccv
Tehect up gcebccv ewc Ivkecx Tehect hvx rupcknv juivepkct.

Ke xuct vue ruzzub, wubcmcp, ewhe ewkt kt ewc zkqke ur ewc pcqcxa ewhe qha gc
hoozkcx. Cmcv ewuinw ke qha gc ruivx ewhe Rcxcphz hiewupkea kt vue gpuhx
cvuinw eu rizza pchjw ewc jhtc, ewcpc jhv gc vu xuige ur ewc oubcp ur ewc
tcmcphz Tehect eu hje crrcjekmcza kv ewc opcqktct, hvx ewcpc twuizx gc vu
pchtuv eu xuige ewckp bkzzkvnvctt eu yixkjkuitza cdcpjktc tijw oubcp.

Kv juvjzixkvn ewkt juqqivkjhekuv ket zhte bupxt twhzz gc hv hoochz eu ewc
Juvnpctt rup ewc qute pknkx cjuvuqa kv ewc cdocvxkeipc ur ewc quvca ke wuzxt
kv epite rup ewc ocuozc. Ewc bha eu ocpozcdkvn cdephmhnhvjc kt chta, gie h
pceipv eu rpinhzkea kt xkrrkjize. Bwcv, wubcmcp, ke kt juvtkxcpcx ewhe ewutc
bwu gchp ewc gipxcvt ur ehdhekuv whmc vu nihphvea ur wuvcte jhpc thmc kv ewc
rkxczkea ur ewckp oigzkj tcpmhvet, ewc xiea ur hzz outtkgzc pcepcvjwqcve kt
ozhkvza qhvkrcte.

Bwcv uip xkrrcpcvjct hpc rupnueecv hvx uip juvectet ur ouzkekjhz uokvkuv hpc
vu zuvncp pcqcqgcpcx, vuewkvn kv ewc pceputocje ur uip oigzkj tcpmkjc bkzz gc
ht rupeivhec hvx juqrupekvn ht ewc pcjuzzcjekuv ur urrkjkhz xiea bczz
ocprupqcx hvx ewc qcqupa ur h juvtehve xcmuekuv eu ewc kvecpctet ur uip
juvrkxkvn rczzub-juivepaqcv.

NPUMCP JZCMCZHVX