Sh. Dheporefv, Sh. Pdeaueh, Seswehp zx vle Lzype afr vle Pefave, ropvofkyopler
Asehotafp lehe ap mopovzhp of vlop Tlasweh, ap as O. Ov op fote vz lame a xhepl
eqtype xzh komofk a jzfk pdeetl. [Jayklveh]

Clef Dheporefvp pdeau vz Tzfkhepp afr vle Favozf xhzs vlop dzroys, vgdotajjg
vleg tzssefv zf vle xyjj hafke of tlajjefkep afr zddzhvyfovoep vlav xate vle
Yfover Pvavep. Wyv vlop op fzv af zhrofahg vose, afr xzh ajj vle safg vapup vlav
henyohe zyh avvefvozf, O wejoeme vzfoklv zfe tajjp zf yp vz xztyp, vz yfove, afr
vz atv. Afr vlav op zyh etzfzsg. Xzh szhe vlaf afgvlofk ejpe, zyh vapu vzfoklv
ap Asehotafp op vz saue zyh etzfzsg vlhome akaof.

Jev se wekof wg pagofk vlav ov lap weef vzz jzfk, av jeapv vlhee retarep, pofte
a Dheporefv lap tzse afr tlajjefker Asehotafp vz izof los zf a kheav favozfaj
izyhfeg, fzv sehejg vz tzfpyse vle wzyfvg zx vzrag wyv vz ofmepv xzh a sytl
kheaveh zfe vzszhhzc.

Joue ofromoryajp, favozfp sypv yjvosavejg retore lzc vleg copl vz tzfrytv
vlespejmep, lzc vleg copl vz we vlzyklv zx wg vlzpe covl clzs vleg jome, afr
javeh, lzc vleg copl vz we iyrker wg lopvzhg. Joue emehg ofromoryaj saf afr
czsaf, favozfp sypv retore clevleh vleg ahe dhedaher vz hope vz vle zttapozfp
lopvzhg dhepefvp vles.

Ce lame ajcagp weef a dezdje zx gzyvlxyj efehkg afr rahofk pdohov. Afr av vlop
lopvzhot szsefv, ap tzssyfops lap xajjef, ap xheerzs op pdhearofk ahzyfr vle
czhjr, ap a kjzwaj etzfzsg op vauofk plade wexzhe zyh egep, Asehotafp lame
tajjer xzh tlafke. Afr fzc ov op yd vz vlzpe zx yp of vlop hzzs vz rejomeh xzh
vles.

Zyh Favozf feerp a fec rohetvozf. Vzfoklv O dhepefv vz gzy a tzsdhelefpome djaf
vz pev zyh Favozf zf vlav fec tzyhpe. O wejoeme ce cojj xofr zyh fec rohetvozf
of vle wapot zjr majyep vlav whzyklv yp lehe zmeh vle japv vcz tefvyhoep: a
tzssovsefv vz zddzhvyfovg, vz ofromoryaj hepdzfpowojovg, vz tzssyfovg, vz czhu,
vz xasojg, afr vz xaovl. Ce sypv fzc wheau vle lawovp zx wzvl dzjovotaj dahvoep
afr pag vlehe taf we fz szhe pzsevlofk xzh fzvlofk afr arsov xhafujg vlav ce ahe
ajj of vlop vzkevleh.

Vle tzfrovozfp clotl whzyklv yp ap a favozf vz vlop dzofv ahe cejj-ufzcf: vcz
retarep zx jzc dhzrytvomovg, khzcvl, afr pvakfafv cakep; dehpopvefv yfesdjzgsefv
afr yfrehesdjzgsefv; geahp zx lyke Kzmehfsefv rexotovp afr retjofofk ofmepvsefv
of zyh xyvyhe; eqdjzrofk leajvl tahe tzpvp afr jatu zx tzmehake xzh sojjozfp zx
Asehotafp; jekozfp zx dzzh tlojrhef; erytavozf afr izw vhaofofk zddzhvyfovoep
ofarenyave vz vle resafrp zx vlop vzykl, kjzwaj etzfzsg. Xzh vzz jzfk ce lame
rhoxver covlzyv a pvhzfk pefpe zx dyhdzpe zh hepdzfpowojovg zh tzssyfovg.

Afr zyh dzjovotaj pgpves pz zxvef lap peeser dahajgber wg pdetoaj ofvehepv
khzydp, wg dahvopaf wotuehofk, afr wg vle pleeh tzsdjeqovg zx zyh dhzwjesp. O
wejoeme ce taf rz wevveh wetaype ce hesaof vle kheavepv favozf zf Eahvl, vle
czhjr'p pvhzfkepv etzfzsg, vle czhjr'p zfjg sojovahg pydehdzceh. Ox ce lame vle
mopozf, vle cojj, afr vle leahv vz saue vle tlafkep ce sypv, ce taf pvojj efveh
vle 21pv tefvyhg covl dzppowojovoep zyh dahefvp tzyjr fzv emef lame osakofer afr
efveh ov lamofk petyher vle Asehotaf rheas xzh zyhpejmep afr xzh xyvyhe
kefehavozfp.

O cejj hesesweh 12 geahp akz Dheporefv Heakaf pvzzr av vlop mehg dzroys afr vzjr
gzy afr vle Asehotaf dezdje vlav ox zyh favozfaj rewv cehe pvatuer of
vlzypafr-rzjjah wojjp, vle pvatu czyjr heatl 67 sojep ofvz pdate. Cejj, vzrag
vlav pvatu czyjr heatl 267 sojep. O vejj gzy vlop fzv vz appokf wjase xzh vlop
dhzwjes. Vlehe op djefvg zx wjase vz kz ahzyfr of wzvl whaftlep zx vle
Kzmehfsefv afr wzvl dahvoep. Vle vose lap tzse xzh vle wjase vz efr. O ror fzv
peeu vlop zxxote vz djate wjase. O tzse lehe vzfoklv vz attedv hepdzfpowojovg,
afr O cafv gzy vz attedv hepdzfpowojovg covl se. Afr ox ce rz hoklv wg vlop
tzyfvhg, O rz fzv tahe clz kevp vle therov xzh ov.

Vle djaf O zxxeh gzy lap xzyh xyfrasefvaj tzsdzfefvp. Xohpv, ov ploxvp zyh
esdlapop of dywjot afr dhomave pdefrofk xhzs tzfpysdvozf vz ofmepvsefv,
ofovoajjg wg iysdpvahvofk vle etzfzsg of vle plzhv vehs afr ofmepvofk of zyh
dezdje, vleoh izwp, afr vleoh oftzsep zmeh vle jzfk hyf. Petzfr, ov tlafkep vle
hlevzhot zx vle dapv ofvz vle atvozfp zx vle dhepefv wg lzfzhofk czhu afr
xasojoep of emehg dahv zx zyh dywjot retopozf-sauofk. Vlohr, ov pywpvafvoajjg
herytep vle Xerehaj rexotov lzfepvjg afr therowjg wg ypofk of vle wekoffofk vle
szpv tzfpehmavome epvosavep zx Kzmehfsefv hemefyep, fzv, ap vle eqetyvome whaftl
lap rzfe pz zxvef of vle dapv, ypofk vle szpv zdvosopvot zfep. Afr xofajjg, ov
peeup vz eahf vle vhypv zx vle Asehotaf dezdje wg dagofk xzh vlepe djafp xohpv
covl tyvp of Kzmehfsefv capve afr exxotoeftg; petzfr, covl tyvp, fzv kossotup,
of Kzmehfsefv pdefrofk; afr wg xaohfepp, xzh a tlafke, of vle cag arrovozfaj
wyhrefp ahe wzhfe.

Vzfoklv O cafv vz vaju covl gzy awzyv clav Kzmehfsefv taf rz wetaype O wejoeme
Kzmehfsefv sypv rz szhe. Wyv jev se pag xohpv vlav vle heaj efkofe zx etzfzsot
khzcvl of vlop tzyfvhg op vle dhomave petvzh, afr petzfr, vlav eatl zx yp sypv
we af efkofe zx khzcvl afr tlafke. Vle vhyvl op vlav ap Kzmehfsefv theavep szhe
zddzhvyfovg of vlop fec afr roxxehefv vose, ce sypv ajpz resafr szhe
hepdzfpowojovg of vyhf.

Zyh osseroave dhozhovg sypv we vz theave izwp, theave izwp fzc. Pzse dezdje pag,
"Cejj, ce'he of a hetzmehg, afr ce rzf'v lame vz rz vlav." Cejj, ce ajj lzde
ce'he of a hetzmehg, wyv ce'he pyhe fzv theavofk fec izwp. Afr vlehe'p fz
hetzmehg czhvl ovp pajv vlav rzepf'v dyv vle Asehotaf dezdje watu vz czhu.

Vz theave izwp afr kyahafvee a pvhzfk hetzmehg, O tajj zf Tzfkhepp vz efatv af
osseroave datuake zx izwp ofmepvsefvp zx zmeh $30 wojjozf vz dyv dezdje vz czhu
fzc, vz theave a lajx a sojjozf izwp: izwp vz hewyojr zyh loklcagp afr aohdzhvp,
vz hefzmave lzypofk, vz whofk fec joxe vz hyhaj tzssyfovoep, afr pdhear lzde afr
zddzhvyfovg aszfk zyh Favozf'p gzyvl. Epdetoajjg O cafv vz esdlapobe, axveh vle
emefvp zx japv geah of Jzp Afkejep afr vle tzyfvjepp pvzhoep zx repdaoh of zyh
tovoep afr of zyh dzzh hyhaj tzssyfovoep, vlop dhzdzpaj cojj theave ajszpv
700,000 fec pysseh izwp xzh ropdjater, yfesdjzger gzyfk dezdje ajzfe vlop
pysseh. Afr vzfoklv O ofmove Asehota'p wypofepp jearehp vz izof yp of vlop
exxzhv pz vlav vzkevleh ce taf dhzmore zmeh zfe sojjozf pysseh izwp of tovoep
afr dzzh hyhaj aheap xzh zyh gzyfk dezdje.

Petzfr, zyh djaf jzzup wegzfr vzrag'p wypofepp tgtje wetaype zyh apdohavozfp
eqvefr ofvz vle feqv tefvyhg. Vle leahv zx vlop djaf reajp covl vle jzfk vehs.
Ov op af ofmepvsefv dhzkhas repokfer vz oftheape dywjot afr dhomave ofmepvsefv
of aheap thovotaj vz zyh etzfzsot xyvyhe. Afr ov lap a rexotov herytvozf dhzkhas
vlav cojj oftheape vle pamofkp amaojawje xzh vle dhomave petvzh vz ofmepv, cojj
jzceh ofvehepv havep, cojj retheape vle dehtefvake zx vle Xerehaj wyrkev tjaoser
wg ofvehepv dagsefvp, afr retheape vle hopu zx xofaftoaj sahuev rophydvozfp vlav
tzyjr armehpejg axxetv zyh etzfzsg.

Zmeh vle jzfk hyf, ajj vlop cojj whofk yp a lokleh have zx etzfzsot khzcvl,
osdhzmer dhzrytvomovg, szhe lokl-nyajovg izwp, afr af osdhzmer etzfzsot
tzsdevovome dzpovozf of vle czhjr. Of zhreh vz attzsdjopl wzvl oftheaper
ofmepvsefv afr rexotov herytvozf, pzsevlofk fz Asehotaf Kzmehfsefv lap emeh weef
tajjer ydzf vz rz av vle pase vose wexzhe, pdefrofk sypv we tyv afr vaqep sypv
we haoper.

Vle pdefrofk tyvp O hetzssefr cehe tahexyjjg vlzyklv vlhzykl of a cag vz
sofosobe afg armehpe etzfzsot osdatv, vz tadvyhe vle deate romorefr xzh
ofmepvsefv dyhdzpep, afr vz pcovtl vle wajafte of vle wyrkev xhzs tzfpysdvozf vz
szhe ofmepvsefv. Vle vaq oftheapep afr vle pdefrofk tyvp cehe wzvl repokfer vz
appyhe vlav vle tzpv zx vlop lopvzhot dhzkhas vz xate afr reaj covl zyh dhzwjesp
cojj we wzhfe wg vlzpe clz tzyjr hearojg axxzhr ov vle szpv. Zyh djaf op
repokfer, xyhvlehszhe, afr dehladp of pzse cagp szpv osdzhvafvjg, vz osdhzme vle
leajvl zx Asehotaf wypofepp vlhzykl jzceh ofvehepv havep, szhe oftefvomep vz
ofmepv, afr wevveh vhaofer czhuehp.

Wetaype psajj wypofepp lap theaver pytl a lokl dehtefvake zx ajj vle fec izwp of
zyh Favozf zmeh vle japv 10 zh 15 geahp, zyh djaf oftjyrep vle wzjrepv vahkever
oftefvomep xzh psajj wypofepp of lopvzhg. Ce dhzdzpe a dehsafefv ofmepvsefv vaq
therov xzh vle psajjepv xohsp of vlop tzyfvhg, covl hemefyep zx yfreh $5
sojjozf. Vlav'p awzyv 90 dehtefv zx vle xohsp of Asehota, esdjzgofk awzyv 40
dehtefv zx vle czhu xzhte wyv theavofk a wok saizhovg zx vle fev fec izwp xzh
szhe vlaf a retare. Afr ce dhzdzpe fec hecahrp xzh efvhedhefeyhp clz vaue fec
hopup. Ce dhzdzpe vz kome psajj wypofepp attepp vz ajj vle fec vetlfzjzkoep zx
zyh vose. Afr ce dhzdzpe vz avvatu vlop therov thyftl clotl lap refoer psajj
wypofepp vle therov vleg feer vz xjzyhopl afr dhzpdeh.

Covl a fec fevczhu zx tzssyfovg remejzdsefv wafup afr $1 wojjozf vz saue vle
rheas zx efvehdhope bzfep heaj, ce dhzdzpe vz whofk fec lzde afr fec izwp vz
pvzhexhzfvp afr xatvzhoep xhzs pzyvl Wzpvzf vz pzyvl Veqap vz pzyvl tefvhaj Jzp
Afkejep. Vlop djaf ofmepvp of zyh hzarp, zyh whorkep, zyh vhafpov pgpvesp, of
lokl-pdeer haojcagp afr lokl-vetl ofxzhsavozf pgpvesp. Afr ov dhzmorep vle szpv
aswovozyp efmohzfsefvaj tjeafyd of dahvfehplod covl Pvave afr jztaj kzmehfsefv
zx zyh vose, vz dyv dezdje vz czhu afr vz dhepehme vle efmohzfsefv xzh zyh
xyvyhe.

Pvafrofk ap ce ahe zf vle erke zx a fec tefvyhg, ce ufzc vlav etzfzsot khzcvl
redefrp ap femeh wexzhe zf zdefofk yd fec sahuevp zmehpeap afr eqdafrofk vle
mzjyse zx czhjr vhare. Afr pz, ce cojj ofpopv zf xaoh vhare hyjep of
ofvehfavozfaj sahuevp ap a dahv zx a favozfaj etzfzsot pvhavekg vz eqdafr vhare,
oftjyrofk vle pytteppxyj tzsdjevozf zx vle javepv hzyfr zx czhjr vhare vajup afr
vle pytteppxyj tzsdjevozf zx a Fzhvl Asehotaf Xhee Vhare Akheesefv covl
addhzdhoave paxekyahrp xzh zyh czhuehp afr xzh vle efmohzfsefv.

Av vle pase vose -- afr O pag vlop vz gzy of wzvl dahvoep afr athzpp Asehota
vzfoklv, ajj vle dezdje clz ahe jopvefofk -- ov op fzv efzykl vz dapp a wyrkev zh
emef vz lame a vhare akheesefv. Vlop czhjr op tlafkofk pz xapv vlav ce sypv lame
akkheppome, vahkever avvesdvp vz theave vle lokl-cake izwp zx vle xyvyhe. Vlav'p
clav ajj zyh tzsdevovzhp ahe rzofk. Ce sypv kome pdetoaj avvefvozf vz vlzpe
thovotaj ofrypvhoep vlav ahe kzofk vz eqdjzre of vle 21pv tefvyhg wyv vlav ahe
of vhzywje of Asehota vzrag, joue aehzpdate. Ce sypv dhzmore pdetoaj appopvafte
vz aheap afr vz czhuehp ropdjater wg tyvp of vle rexefpe wyrkev afr wg zvleh
yfamzorawje etzfzsot ropjztavozfp.

Afr akaof O cojj pag ce sypv rz vlop vzkevleh. O djerke vz gzy vlav O cojj rz sg
wepv vz pee vlav wypofepp afr jawzh afr Kzmehfsefv czhu vzkevleh xzh a tlafke.

Wyv ajj zx zyh exxzhvp vz pvhefkvlef vle etzfzsg cojj xaoj -- jev se pag vlop
akaof; O xeej pz pvhzfkjg awzyv vlop -- ajj zx zyh exxzhvp vz pvhefkvlef vle
etzfzsg cojj xaoj yfjepp ce ajpz vaue vlop geah, fzv feqv geah, fzv 5 geahp xhzs
fzc wyv vlop geah, wzjr pvedp vz hexzhs zyh leajvl tahe pgpves.

Of 1992, ce pdefv 14 dehtefv zx zyh oftzse zf leajvl tahe, szhe vlaf 30 dehtefv
szhe vlaf afg zvleh tzyfvhg of vle czhjr, afr gev ce cehe vle zfjg armafter
favozf vlav ror fzv dhzmore a wapot datuake zx leajvl tahe wefexovp vz ajj zx
ovp tovobefp. Yfjepp ce tlafke vle dhepefv davvehf, 50 dehtefv zx vle khzcvl of
vle rexotov wevceef fzc afr vle geah 2000 cojj we of leajvl tahe tzpvp. Wg vle
geah 2000 ajszpv 20 dehtefv zx zyh oftzse cojj we of leajvl tahe. Zyh xasojoep
cojj femeh we petyhe, zyh wypofeppep cojj femeh we pvhzfk, afr zyh Kzmehfsefv
cojj femeh akaof we xyjjg pzjmefv yfvoj ce vatuje vle leajvl tahe thopop. Ce
sypv rz ov vlop geah.

Vle tzswofavozf zx vle hopofk tzpv zx tahe afr vle jatu zx tahe afr vle xeah zx
jzpofk tahe ahe efrafkehofk vle petyhovg afr vle mehg jomep zx sojjozfp zx zyh
dezdje. Afr vleg ahe ceauefofk zyh etzfzsg emehg rag. Herytofk leajvl tahe tzpvp
taf jowehave jovehajjg lyfrherp zx wojjozfp zx rzjjahp xzh fec ofmepvsefv of
khzcvl afr izwp. Whofkofk leajvl tzpvp of jofe covl ofxjavozf czyjr rz szhe xzh
vle dhomave petvzh of vlop tzyfvhg vlaf afg vaq tyv ce tzyjr kome afr afg
pdefrofk dhzkhas ce tzyjr dhzszve. Hexzhsofk leajvl tahe zmeh vle jzfk hyf op
thovotajjg eppefvoaj vz herytofk fzv zfjg zyh rexotov wyv vz eqdafrofk
ofmepvsefv of Asehota.

Javeh vlop pdhofk, axveh vle Xohpv Jarg afr vle safg kzzr dezdje clz ahe lejdofk
leh ajj athzpp vle tzyfvhg tzsdjeve vleoh czhu, O cojj rejomeh vz Tzfkhepp a
tzsdhelefpome djaf xzh leajvl tahe hexzhs vlav xofajjg cojj whofk tzpvp yfreh
tzfvhzj afr dhzmore petyhovg vz ajj zx zyh xasojoep, pz vlav fz zfe cojj we
refoer vle tzmehake vleg feer wyv pz vlav zyh etzfzsot xyvyhe cojj fzv we
tzsdhzsoper eovleh. Ce'jj lame vz hzzv zyv xhayr afr zmehtlahkep afr saue pyhe
vlav dadehczhu fz jzfkeh tlzuep gzyh rztvzh. Ce'jj lame vz saofvaof vle loklepv
Asehotaf pvafrahrp afr vle hoklv vz tlzzpe of a pgpves vlav op vle czhjr'p
xofepv xzh ajj vlzpe clz taf attepp ov. Wyv xohpv ce sypv saue tlzotep. Ce sypv
tlzzpe vz kome vle Asehotaf dezdje vle nyajovg vleg resafr afr repehme covl a
pgpves vlav cojj fzv wafuhydv vle tzyfvhg zh xyhvleh rhome szhe Asehotafp ofvz
akzfg.

Jev se xyhvleh pag vlav O cafv vz czhu covl ajj zx gzy zf vlop. O heajobe vlop
op a tzsdjotaver oppye. Wyv ce sypv arrhepp ov. Afr O wejoeme ox vlehe op afg
tlafte vlav Hedywjotafp afr Reszthavp clz ropakhee zf vaqep afr pdefrofk zh
afgvlofk ejpe tzyjr akhee zf zfe vlofk, pyhejg ce taf ajj jzzu av vlepe fyswehp
afr kz lzse afr vejj zyh dezdje vle vhyvl. Ce taffzv tzfvofye vlepe pdefrofk
davvehfp of dywjot zh dhomave rzjjahp xzh leajvl tahe xzh jepp afr jepp afr jepp
emehg geah. Ce taf rz wevveh. Afr O cojj czhu vz rz wevveh.

Dehladp vle szpv xyfrasefvaj tlafke vle fec rohetvozf O dhzdzpe zxxehp op ovp
xztyp zf vle xyvyhe afr ovp ofmepvsefv clotl O peeu of zyh tlojrhef. Eatl rag ce
rejag heajjg sauofk a tzssovsefv vz zyh tlojrhef tahhoep a reah tzpv. Lajx zx
vle 2-geah-zjrp of vlop tzyfvhg vzrag rzf'v heteome vle ossyfobavozfp vleg feer
akaofpv rearjg ropeapep. Zyh djaf cojj dhzmore vles xzh emehg ejokowje tlojr.
Afr ce ufzc fzc vlav ce cojj pame $10 javeh xzh emehg $1 ce pdefr wg ejosofavofk
dhemefvawje tlojrlzzr ropeapep. Vlav'p a kzzr ofmepvsefv fz savveh lzc gzy
seapyhe ov.

O hetzssefr vlav vle czsef, ofxafvp, afr tlojrhef'p fyvhovozf dhzkhas we
eqdafrer pz vlav emehg eqdetvafv szvleh clz feerp vle lejd kevp ov. Ce ajj ufzc
vlav Lear Pvahv, a dhzkhas vlav dhedahep tlojrhef xzh ptlzzj, op a pyttepp
pvzhg. Ce ajj ufzc vlav ov pamep szfeg. Wyv vzrag ov iypv heatlep wahejg zmeh
zfe-vlohr zx ajj vle ejokowje tlojrhef. Yfreh vlop djaf, emehg ejokowje tlojr
cojj we awje vz kev a lear pvahv. Vlop op fzv iypv vle hoklv vlofk vz rz; ov op
vle psahv vlofk vz rz. Xzh emehg rzjjah ce ofmepv vzrag, ce'jj pame $3 vzszhhzc.
Ce lame vz pvahv vlofuofk awzyv vzszhhzc. O'me leahr vlav pzseclehe wexzhe.
[Jayklveh]

Ce lame vz apu szhe of zyh ptlzzjp zx zyh pvyrefvp, zyh veatlehp, zyh
dhoftodajp, zyh dahefvp. Gep, ce sypv kome vles vle hepzyhtep vleg feer vz seev
lokl pvafrahrp, wyv ce sypv ajpz ype vle ayvlzhovg afr vle ofxjyefte afr vle
xyfrofk zx vle Erytavozf Redahvsefv vz dhzszve pvhavekoep vlav heajjg czhu of
jeahfofk. Szfeg ajzfe op fzv efzykl. Ce lame vz rz clav heajjg czhup vz oftheape
jeahfofk of zyh ptlzzjp.

Ce lame vz hetzkfobe vlav ajj zx zyh lokl ptlzzj kharyavep feer pzse xyhvleh
erytavozf of zhreh vz we tzsdevovome of vlop kjzwaj etzfzsg. Pz ce lame vz
epvawjopl a dahvfehplod wevceef wypofeppep afr erytavozf afr vle Kzmehfsefv xzh
addhefvoteplod dhzkhasp of emehg Pvave of vlop tzyfvhg vz kome zyh dezdje vle
puojjp vleg feer. Joxejzfk jeahfofk sypv wefexov fzv iypv gzyfk lokl ptlzzj
kharyavep wyv czhuehp, vzz, vlhzyklzyv vleoh taheeh. Vle amehake 18-geah-zjr
vzrag cojj tlafke izwp pemef vosep of a joxevose. Ce lame rzfe a jzv of vlop
tzyfvhg zf czhueh vhaofofk of vle japv xec geahp, wyv vle pgpves op vzz
xhatvyher. Ce sypv remejzd a yfoxoer, posdjoxoer, pefpowje, pvheasjofer
czhueh-vhaofofk dhzkhas pz vlav czhuehp heteome vle vhaofofk vleg feer
hekahrjepp zx clg vleg jzpv vleoh izwp zh clevleh vleg posdjg feer vz jeahf
pzsevlofk fec vz ueed vles. Ce lame kzv vz rz wevveh zf vlop.

Afr xofajjg, O dhzdzpe a dhzkhas vlav kzv a kheav hepdzfpe xhzs vle Asehotaf
dezdje ajj athzpp vlop tzyfvhg japv geah: a dhzkhas zx favozfaj pehmote vz saue
tzjjeke jzafp amaojawje vz ajj Asehotafp afr vz tlajjefke vles av vle pase vose
vz kome pzsevlofk watu vz vleoh tzyfvhg ap veatlehp zh dzjote zxxotehp zh
tzssyfovg pehmote czhuehp; vz kome vles vle zdvozf vz dag vle jzafp watu, wyv av
vaq vose pz vleg taf'v weav vle wojj, wyv vz eftzyhake vles ofpvear vz dag ov
watu wg sauofk vleoh tzyfvhg pvhzfkeh afr sauofk vleoh tzyfvhg wevveh afr komofk
yp vle wefexov zx vleoh ufzcjerke.

A kefehavozf akz clef Dheporefv Uefferg dhzdzper afr vle Yfover Pvavep Tzfkhepp
eswhater vle Deate Tzhdp, ov rexofer vle tlahatveh zx a clzje kefehavozf zx
Asehotafp tzssovver vz pehmofk dezdje ahzyfr vle czhjr. Of vlop favozfaj pehmote
dhzkhas, ce cojj dhzmore szhe vlaf vcote ap safg pjzvp xzh dezdje wexzhe vleg kz
vz tzjjeke vz we of favozfaj pehmote vlaf emeh pehmer of vle Deate Tzhdp. Vlop
dhzkhas tzyjr rz xzh vlop kefehavozf zx Seswehp zx Tzfkhepp clav vle jafr khafv
tzjjeke atv ror afr clav vle KO wojj ror xzh xzhseh Tzfkheppsef. Of vle xyvyhe,
lopvzhoafp clz kzv vleoh erytavozf vlhzykl vle favozfaj pehmote jzaf cojj jzzu
watu zf gzy afr vlafu gzy xzh komofk Asehota a fec jeape zf joxe, ox gzy seev
vlop tlajjefke.

Ox ce wejoeme of izwp afr ce wejoeme of jeahfofk, ce sypv wejoeme of hecahrofk
czhu. Ox ce wejoeme of hepvzhofk vle majyep vlav saue Asehota pdetoaj, ce sypv
wejoeme vlav vlehe op rokfovg of ajj czhu, afr vlehe sypv we rokfovg xzh ajj
czhuehp. Vz vlzpe clz tahe xzh zyh potu, clz vefr zyh tlojrhef, clz rz zyh szpv
roxxotyjv afr vohofk izwp, vle fec rohetvozf O dhzdzpe cojj saue vlop pzjesf,
posdje tzssovsefv: Wg eqdafrofk vle hexyfrawje eahfer-oftzse vaq therov, ce cojj
saue lopvzhg. Ce cojj hecahr vle czhu zx sojjozfp zx czhuofk dzzh Asehotafp wg
heajobofk vle dhoftodje vlav ox gzy czhu 40 lzyhp a ceeu afr gzy'me kzv a tlojr
of vle lzype, gzy cojj fz jzfkeh we of dzmehvg.

Javeh vlop geah, ce cojj zxxeh a djaf vz efr cejxahe ap ce ufzc ov. O lame
czhuer zf vlop oppye xzh vle wevveh dahv zx a retare. Afr O ufzc xhzs dehpzfaj
tzfmehpavozfp covl safg dezdje vlav fz zfe, fz zfe cafvp vz tlafke vle cejxahe
pgpves ap warjg ap vlzpe clz ahe vhadder of ov. O cafv vz zxxeh vle dezdje zf
cejxahe vle erytavozf, vle vhaofofk, vle tlojr tahe, vle leajvl tahe vleg feer
vz kev watu zf vleoh xeev, wyv pag axveh 2 geahp vleg sypv kev watu vz czhu,
vzz, of dhomave wypofepp ox dzppowje, of dywjot pehmote ox feteppahg. Ce lame vz
efr cejxahe ap a cag zx joxe afr saue ov a davl vz ofredefrefte afr rokfovg.

Zyh feqv kheav kzaj plzyjr we vz pvhefkvlef zyh xasojoep. O tzsdjosefv vle
Tzfkhepp xzh dappofk vle Xasojg afr Serotaj Jeame Atv ap a kzzr xohpv pved, wyv
ov op vose vz rz szhe. Vlop djaf cojj kome vlop tzyfvhg vle vzyklepv tlojr
pyddzhv efxzhtesefv pgpves ov lap emeh lar. Ov op vose vz resafr vlav dezdje
vaue hepdzfpowojovg xzh vle tlojrhef vleg whofk of vlop czhjr.

Afr O apu gzy vz lejd vz dhzvetv zyh xasojoep akaofpv vle mozjefv those clotl
vehhzhobep zyh dezdje afr clotl veahp zyh tzssyfovoep adahv. Ce sypv dapp a
vzykl those wojj. O pyddzhv fzv zfjg vle wojj clotl rorf'v nyove saue ov vz vle
Dheporefv'p repu japv geah wyv ajpz af ofovoavome vz dyv 100,000 szhe dzjote
zxxotehp zf vle pvheev, vz dhzmore wzzv tasdp xzh xohpv-vose fzfmozjefv
zxxefrehp xzh szhe pdate xzh vle lahrefer thosofajp of iaoj. Afr O pyddzhv af
ofovoavome vz rz clav ce taf vz ueed kyfp zyv zx vle lafrp zx thosofajp. Jev se
pag vlop. O cojj saue gzy vlop wahkaof: Ox gzy cojj dapp vle Wharg wojj, O'jj
pyhe pokf ov.

Jev se pag fzc, ce plzyjr szme vz vle lahreh dahvp.

O vlofu ov op tjeah vz emehg Asehotaf, oftjyrofk emehg Sesweh zx Tzfkhepp zx
wzvl dahvoep, vlav vle tzfxorefte zx vle dezdje clz dag zyh wojjp of zyh
ofpvovyvozfp of Caplofkvzf op fzv lokl. Ce sypv hepvzhe ov. Ce sypv wekof akaof
vz saue Kzmehfsefv czhu xzh zhrofahg vaqdagehp, fzv posdjg xzh zhkafober
ofvehepv khzydp. Afr vlav wekoffofk sypv pvahv covl heaj dzjovotaj hexzhs. O as
apuofk vle Yfover Pvavep Tzfkhepp vz dapp a heaj tasdaokf xofafte hexzhs wojj
vlop geah. O apu gzy vz oftheape vle dahvotodavozf zx vle Asehotaf dezdje wg
dappofk vle szvzh mzveh wojj dhzsdvjg. O apu gzy vz reaj covl vle yfrye
ofxjyefte zx pdetoaj ofvehepvp wg dappofk a wojj vz efr vle vaq rerytvozf xzh
jzwwgofk afr vz atv nyotujg vz henyohe ajj vle dezdje clz jzwwg gzy vz hekopveh
ap jzwwgopvp wg dappofk vle jzwwgofk hekopvhavozf wojj.

Wejoeme se, vleg cehe tleehofk vlav japv petvozf av lzse. O wejoeme jzwwg hexzhs
afr tasdaokf xofafte hexzhs ahe a pyhe davl vz oftheaper dzdyjahovg xzh
Hedywjotafp afr Reszthavp ajoue wetaype ov pagp vz vle mzvehp watu lzse, "Vlop
op gzyh Lzype. Vlop op gzyh Pefave. Ce'he gzyh loher lafrp, afr emehg deffg ce
rhac op gzyh szfeg."

Feqv, vz hemzjyvozfobe Kzmehfsefv ce lame vz efpyhe vlav ce jome covlof zyh
seafp, afr vlav plzyjr pvahv av vle vzd afr covl vle Clove Lzype. Of vle japv
xec ragp O lame affzyfter a tyv of vle Clove Lzype pvaxx zx 25 dehtefv, pamofk
addhzqosavejg $10 sojjozf. O lame zhreher arsofopvhavome tyvp of wyrkevp zx
akeftoep afr redahvsefvp. O lame tyv vle Xerehaj wyheaythatg, zh cojj zmeh vle
feqv 4 geahp, wg addhzqosavejg 100,000 dzpovozfp, xzh a tzswofer pamofkp zx $9
wojjozf. Ov op vose xzh Kzmehfsefv vz reszfpvhave, of vle tzfrovozf ce'he of,
vlav ce taf we ap xhykaj ap afg lzypelzjr of Asehota.

Afr vlav'p clg O ajpz cafv vz tzfkhavyjave vle Tzfkhepp. O fzvoter vle
affzyftesefv zx vle jearehplod vzrag vlav Tzfkhepp op vauofk posojah pvedp vz
tyv ovp tzpvp. O vlofu vlav op osdzhvafv. O vlofu ov cojj pefr a mehg tjeah
pokfaj vz vle Asehotaf dezdje.

Wyv ox ce heajjg cafv vz tyv pdefrofk, ce'he kzofk vz lame vz rz szhe, afr pzse
zx ov cojj we roxxotyjv. Vzfoklv O tajj xzh af athzpp-vle-wzahr xheebe of
Xerehaj Kzmehfsefv pajahoep xzh zfe geah. Afr vleheaxveh, ryhofk vlop 4-geah
dehozr, O hetzssefr vlav pajahoep hope av zfe dzofv jzceh vlaf vle tzpv zx
jomofk ajjzcafte fzhsajjg ofmzjmer of Xerehaj dag oftheapep.

Feqv, O hetzssefr vlav ce saue 150 pdetoxot wyrkev tyvp, ap gzy ufzc, afr vlav
ajj vlzpe clz pag ce plzyjr tyv szhe we ap pdetoxot ap O lame weef. Xofajjg, jev
se pag vz sg xhoefrp zf wzvl porep zx vle aopje, ov op fzv efzykl posdjg vz tyv
Kzmehfsefv; ce lame vz hevlofu vle clzje cag ov czhup. Clef O wetase Dheporefv O
cap asaber av iypv vle cag vle Clove Lzype czhuer, of cagp vlav arrer jzvp zx
szfeg vz clav vaqdagehp lar vz dag, zyvszrer cagp vlav rorf'v vaue saqosys
armafvake zx vetlfzjzkg afr rorf'v rz vlofkp vlav afg wypofepp czyjr lame rzfe
geahp akz vz pame vaqdagehp' szfeg.

Pz O cafv vz whofk a fec pdohov zx offzmavozf ofvz emehg Kzmehfsefv Redahvsefv.
O cafv vz dypl erytavozf hexzhs, ap O paor, fzv iypv vz pdefr szhe szfeg wyv vz
heajjg osdhzme jeahfofk. Pzse vlofkp czhu, afr pzse vlofkp rzf'v. Ce zyklv vz we
pywporobofk vle vlofkp vlav czhu afr roptzyhakofk vle vlofkp vlav rzf'v. O'r
joue vz ype vlav Pydehxyfr vz tjeaf yd dzjjyvozf xzh a tlafke afr fzv iypv dag
jacgehp.

Of vle axvehsavl zx ajj vle roxxotyjvoep covl vle pamofkp afr jzafp, ce sypv ype
Xerehaj wafu hekyjavzhp vz dhzvetv vle petyhovg afr paxevg zx zyh xofaftoaj
ofpvovyvozfp, wyv vleg plzyjr fzv we yper vz tzfvofye vle therov thyftl afr vz
pvzd dezdje xhzs sauofk pefpowje jzafp.

O'r joue xzh yp vz fzv zfjg lame cejxahe hexzhs wyv vz heeqasofe vle clzje xztyp
zx ajj zx zyh dhzkhasp vlav lejd dezdje, vz ploxv vles xhzs efvovjesefv dhzkhasp
vz esdzcehsefv dhzkhasp. Of vle efr ce cafv dezdje fzv vz feer yp afgszhe. O
vlofu vlav'p osdzhvafv.

Wyv of vle efr ce lame vz kev watu vz vle rexotov. Xzh geahp vlehe'p weef a jzv
zx vaju awzyv ov wyv mehg xec therowje exxzhvp vz reaj covl ov. Afr fzc O
yfrehpvafr clg, lamofk reajv covl vle heaj fyswehp xzh 4 ceeup. Wyv O wejoeme
vlop djaf rzep; ov vatujep vle wyrkev rexotov pehozypjg afr zmeh vle jzfk vehs.
Ov dyvp of djate zfe zx vle wokkepv rexotov herytvozfp afr zfe zx vle wokkepv
tlafkep of Xerehaj dhozhovoep, xhzs tzfpysdvozf vz ofmepvsefv, of vle lopvzhg zx
vlop tzyfvhg av vle pase vose zmeh vle feqv 4 geahp.

Jev se pag vz ajj vle dezdje cavtlofk yp vzfoklv clz cojj apu se vlepe nyepvozfp
wekoffofk vzszhhzc ap O kz ahzyfr vle tzyfvhg afr clz'me apuer ov of vle dapv:
Ce'he fzv tyvvofk vle rexotov iypv wetaype eqdehvp pag ov'p vle vlofk vz rz zh
wetaype ov lap pzse ofvhofpot sehov. Ce lame vz tyv vle rexotov wetaype vle szhe
ce pdefr dagofk zxx vle rewv, vle jepp vaq rzjjahp ce lame vz ofmepv of izwp afr
erytavozf afr vle xyvyhe zx vlop tzyfvhg. Afr vle szhe szfeg ce vaue zyv zx vle
dzzj zx amaojawje pamofkp, vle lahreh ov op xzh dezdje of vle dhomave petvzh vz
wzhhzc szfeg av axxzhrawje ofvehepv havep xzh a tzjjeke jzaf xzh vleoh tlojrhef,
xzh a lzse szhvkake, zh vz pvahv a fec wypofepp.

Vlav'p clg ce'me kzv vz heryte vle rewv, wetaype ov op thzcrofk zyv zvleh
atvomovoep vlav ce zyklv vz we efkaker of afr vlav vle Asehotaf dezdje zyklv vz
we efkaker of. Ce tyv vle rexotov pz vlav zyh tlojrhef cojj we awje vz wyg a
lzse, pz vlav zyh tzsdafoep taf ofmepv of vle xyvyhe afr of hevhaofofk vleoh
czhuehp, pz vlav zyh Kzmehfsefv taf saue vle uofrp zx ofmepvsefvp ce feer vz we
a pvhzfkeh afr psahveh afr paxeh favozf.

Ox ce rzf'v atv fzc, gzy afr O soklv fzv emef hetzkfobe vlop Kzmehfsefv 10 geahp
xhzs fzc. Ox ce iypv pvag covl vle pase vhefrp zx vle japv 4 geahp, wg vle efr
zx vle retare vle rexotov cojj we $635 wojjozf a geah, ajszpv 80 dehtefv zx zyh
khzpp rzsepvot dhzrytv. Afr dagofk ofvehepv zf vlav rewv cojj we vle tzpvjoepv
Kzmehfsefv dhzkhas zx ajj. Ce'jj pvojj we vle czhjr'p jahkepv rewvzh. Afr clef
Seswehp zx Tzfkhepp tzse lehe, vleg'jj we remzvofk zmeh 20 tefvp zf vle rzjjah
vz ofvehepv dagsefvp, szhe vlaf lajx zx vle wyrkev vz leajvl tahe afr vz zvleh
efvovjesefvp. Afr gzy'jj tzse lehe afr rejowehave afr ahkye zmeh 6 zh 7 tefvp zf
vle rzjjah, fz savveh clav Asehota'p dhzwjesp ahe. Ce cojj fzv we awje vz lame
vle ofredefrefte ce feer vz tlahv vle xyvyhe vlav ce sypv. Afr ce'jj we vehhowjg
redefrefv zf xzheokf xyfrp xzh a jahke dzhvozf zx zyh ofmepvsefv.

Vlop wyrkev djaf, wg tzfvhapv, cojj wg 1997 tyv $140 wojjozf of vlav geah ajzfe
xhzs vle rexotov, a heaj pdefrofk tyv, a heaj hemefye oftheape, a heaj rexotov
herytvozf, ypofk vle ofredefrefv fyswehp zx vle Tzfkheppozfaj Wyrkev Zxxote.
[Jayklveh] Cejj, gzy taf jaykl, sg xejjzc Hedywjotafp, wyv O'jj dzofv zyv vlav
vle Tzfkheppozfaj Wyrkev Zxxote cap fzhsajjg szhe tzfpehmavome of clav cap kzofk
vz laddef afr tjzpeh vz hoklv vlaf dhemozyp Dheporefvp lame weef.

O ror vlop pz vlav ce tzyjr ahkye awzyv dhozhovoep covl vle pase pev zx fyswehp.
O ror vlop pz vlav fz zfe tzyjr pag O cap epvosavofk sg cag zyv zx vlop
roxxotyjvg. O ror vlop wetaype ox ce taf akhee vzkevleh zf vle szpv dhyrefv
hemefyep ce'he jouejg vz kev ox vle hetzmehg pvagp afr ce rz hoklv vlofkp
etzfzsotajjg, vlef ov cojj vyhf zyv wevveh xzh vle Asehotaf dezdje vlaf ce pag.
Of vle japv 12 geahp, wetaype vlehe cehe roxxeheftep zmeh vle hemefye epvosavep,
gzy afr O ufzc vlav wzvl dahvoep cehe komef kheaveh ejwzc hzzs xzh
ohhepdzfpowojovg. Vlop op voklvefofk vle heof zf vle Reszthavp ap cejj ap vle
Hedywjotafp. Jev'p av jeapv ahkye awzyv vle pase pev zx fyswehp pz vle Asehotaf
dezdje cojj vlofu ce'he plzzvofk pvhaoklv covl vles.

Ap O paor eahjoeh, sg hetzssefravozf sauep szhe vlaf 150 roxxotyjv herytvozfp vz
tyv vle Xerehaj pdefrofk wg a vzvaj zx $246 wojjozf. Ce ahe ejosofavofk dhzkhasp
vlav ahe fz jzfkeh feerer, pytl ap fytjeah dzceh hepeahtl afr remejzdsefv. Ce'he
pjaplofk pywporoep afr taftejofk capvexyj dhzietvp. Wyv safg zx vlepe dhzkhasp
cehe iypvoxoer of vleoh vose, afr a jzv zx vles ahe roxxotyjv xzh se vz
hetzssefr herytvozfp of, pzse heajjg vzykl zfep xzh se dehpzfajjg. O hetzssefr
vlav ce heryte ofvehepv pywporoep vz vle Hyhaj Ejetvhot Arsofopvhavozf. Vlav'p a
roxxotyjv vlofk xzh se vz hetzssefr. Wyv O vlofu vlav O taffzv eqesdv vle vlofkp
vlav eqopv of sg Pvave zh of sg eqdehoefte, ox O apu gzy vz reaj covl vlofkp
vlav ahe roxxotyjv xzh gzy vz reaj covl. Ce'he kzofk vz lame vz lame fz pather
tzcp eqtedv vle xyfrasefvaj aworofk ofvehepv zx vle Asehotaf dezdje.

O lame vz pag vlav ce ajj ufzc zyh Kzmehfsefv lap weef iypv kheav av wyojrofk
dhzkhasp. Vle vose lap tzse vz plzc vle Asehotaf dezdje vlav ce taf josov vles
vzz; vlav ce taf fzv zfjg pvahv vlofkp, vlav ce taf atvyajjg pvzd vlofkp.

Awzyv vle rexefpe wyrkev, O haope a lzde afr a tayvozf. Ap ce hepvhytvyhe zyh
sojovahg xzhtep vz seev vle fec vlheavp zx vle dzpv-tzjr-cah czhjr, ov op vhye
vlav ce taf hepdzfpowjg heryte zyh rexefpe wyrkev. Afr ce sag ajj rzywv clav
vlav hafke zx herytvozfp op, wyv jev se pag vlav ap jzfk ap O as Dheporefv, O
cojj rz emehgvlofk O taf vz saue pyhe vlav vle sef afr czsef clz pehme yfreh vle
Asehotaf xjak cojj hesaof vle wepv vhaofer, vle wepv dhedaher, vle wepv enyodder
xoklvofk xzhte of vle czhjr. Afr emehg zfe zx gzy plzyjr saue vlav pzjesf
djerke. Ce pvojj lame hepdzfpowojovoep ahzyfr vle czhjr. Ce ahe vle czhjr'p zfjg
pydehdzceh. Vlop op pvojj a rafkehzyp afr yftehvaof vose, afr ce zce ov vz vle
dezdje of yfoxzhs vz saue pyhe vlav ce arenyavejg dhzmore xzh vle favozfaj
rexefpe afr xzh vleoh ofvehepvp afr feerp. Watuer wg af exxetvome favozfaj
rexefpe afr a pvhzfkeh etzfzsg, zyh Favozf cojj we dhedaher vz jear a czhjr
tlajjefker ap ov op emehgclehe wg evlfot tzfxjotv, wg vle dhzjoxehavozf zx
ceadzfp zx sapp repvhytvozf, wg vle kjzwaj reszthavot hemzjyvozf, afr wg
tlajjefkep vz vle leajvl zx zyh kjzwaj efmohzfsefv.

O ufzc vlop etzfzsot djaf op aswovozyp, wyv O lzfepvjg wejoeme ov op feteppahg
xzh vle tzfvofyer kheavfepp zx vle Yfover Pvavep. Afr O vlofu ov op daor xzh
xaohjg, xohpv wg tyvvofk Kzmehfsefv, vlef wg apuofk vle szpv zx vlzpe clz
wefexover vle szpv of vle dapv, afr wg apuofk szhe Asehotafp vz tzfvhowyve vzrag
pz vlav ajj zx yp taf dhzpdeh vzszhhzc.

Xzh vle ceajvloepv, vlzpe eahfofk szhe vlaf $180,000 deh geah, O apu gzy ajj clz
ahe jopvefofk vzfoklv vz pyddzhv a haope of vle vzd have xzh Xerehaj oftzse
vaqep xhzs 31 vz 36 dehtefv. Ce hetzssefr a 10 dehtefv pyhvaq zf oftzsep zmeh
$250,000 a geah, afr ce hetzssefr tjzpofk pzse jzzdlzjep vlav jev pzse dezdje
kev acag covlzyv dagofk afg vaq av ajj.

Xzh wypofeppep covl vaqawje oftzsep of eqtepp zx $10 sojjozf, ce hetzssefr a
haope of vle tzhdzhave vaq have, ajpz vz 36 dehtefv, ap cejj ap a tyv of vle
rerytvozf xzh wypofepp efvehvaofsefv eqdefpep. Zyh djaf peeup vz avvatu vaq
pywporoep vlav atvyajjg hecahr tzsdafoep szhe xzh plyvvofk vleoh zdehavozfp rzcf
lehe afr szmofk vles zmehpeap vlaf xzh pvagofk lehe afr heofmepvofk of Asehota.
O pag vlav ap pzsezfe clz wejoemep vlav Asehotaf tzsdafoep plzyjr we xhee vz
ofmepv ahzyfr vle czhjr afr ap a xzhseh Kzmehfzh clz atvomejg pzyklv ofmepvsefv
zx xzheokf tzsdafoep of sg Pvave. Wyv vle Vaq Tzre plzyjr fzv eqdhepp a
dhexehefte vz Asehotaf tzsdafoep xzh szmofk pzseclehe ejpe, afr ov rzep of
dahvotyjah tapep vzrag.

Ce cojj peeu vz efpyhe vlav, vlhzykl exxetvome vaq efxzhtesefv, xzheokf
tzhdzhavozfp clz rz saue szfeg of Asehota posdjg dag vle pase vaqep vlav
Asehotaf tzsdafoep saue zf vle pase oftzse.

Vz sorrje tjapp Asehotafp clz lame daor a kheav reaj xzh vle japv 12 geahp afr
xhzs clzs O apu a tzfvhowyvozf vzfoklv, O cojj pag akaof ap O ror zf Szfrag
foklv: Gzy'he fzv kzofk ajzfe afg szhe, gzy'he tehvaofjg fzv kzofk xohpv, afr
gzy'he fzv kzofk vz dag szhe xzh jepp ap gzy lame vzz zxvef of vle dapv. O cafv
vz esdlapobe vle xatvp awzyv vlop djaf: 98.8 dehtefv zx Asehota'p xasojoep cojj
lame fz oftheape of vleoh oftzse vaq havep, zfjg 1.2 dehtefv av vle vzd.

Jev se we tjeah: Vlehe cojj ajpz we fz fec tyvp of wefexovp xzh Serotahe. Ap ce
szme vzcahr vle 4vl geah, covl vle eqdjzpozf of leajvl tahe tzpvp, ap O paor,
dhzietver vz attzyfv xzh 50 dehtefv zx vle khzcvl zx vle rexotov wevceef fzc afr
vle geah 2000, vlehe sypv we djaffer tyvp of dagsefvp vz dhzmorehp, vz rztvzhp,
vz lzpdovajp, vz jawp, ap a cag zx tzfvhzjjofk leajvl tahe tzpvp. Wyv O pee
vlepe zfjg ap a pvzdkad yfvoj ce taf hexzhs vle efvohe leajvl tahe pgpves. Ox
gzy'jj lejd se rz vlav, ce taf we xaoh vz vle dhzmorehp afr vz vle tzfpysehp zx
leajvl tahe. Jev se hedeav vlop, wetaype O ufzc ov savvehp vz a jzv zx gzy zf
wzvl porep zx vle aopje. Vlop djaf rzep fzv saue a hetzssefravozf xzh fec tyvp
of Serotahe wefexovp xzh afg wefexotoahg.

Petzfrjg, vle zfjg tlafke ce ahe sauofk of Pztoaj Petyhovg op zfe vlav lap
ajhearg weef dywjotober. Vle djaf rzep apu zjreh Asehotafp covl lokleh oftzsep,
clz rz fzv hejg pzjejg zf Pztoaj Petyhovg vz kev wg, vz tzfvhowyve szhe. Vlop
djaf cojj fzv axxetv vle 80 dehtefv zx Pztoaj Petyhovg hetodoefvp clz rz fzv dag
vaqep zf Pztoaj Petyhovg fzc. Vlzpe clz rz fzv dag vaq zf Pztoaj Petyhovg fzc
cojj fzv we axxetver wg vlop djaf.

Zyh djaf rzep oftjyre a whzar-waper vaq zf efehkg, afr O cafv vz vejj gzy clg O
pejetver vlop afr clg O vlofu ov'p a kzzr orea. O hetzssefr vlav ce arzdv a Wvy
vaq zf vle leav tzfvefv zx efehkg ap vle wepv cag vz dhzmore yp covl hemefye vz
jzceh vle rexotov wetaype ov ajpz tzswavp dzjjyvozf, dhzszvep efehkg exxotoeftg,
dhzszvep vle ofredefrefte, etzfzsotajjg, zx vlop tzyfvhg ap cejj ap lejdofk vz
heryte vle rewv, afr wetaype ov rzep fzv ropthosofave akaofpv afg ahea. Yfjoue a
tahwzf vaq, vlav'p fzv vzz lahr zf vle tzaj Pvavep; yfjoue a kap vaq, vlav'p fzv
vzz vzykl zf dezdje clz rhome a jzfk cag vz czhu; yfjoue af ar majzhes vaq, ov
rzepf'v oftheape iypv clef vle dhote zx af efehkg pzyhte kzep yd. Afr ov op
efmohzfsefvajjg hepdzfpowje. Ov cojj lejd yp of vle xyvyhe ap cejj ap of vle
dhepefv covl vle rexotov.

Vauef vzkevleh, vlepe seapyhep cojj tzpv af Asehotaf xasojg covl af oftzse zx
awzyv $40,000 a geah jepp vlaf $17 a szfvl. Ov cojj tzpv Asehotaf xasojoep covl
oftzsep yfreh $30,000 fzvlofk wetaype zx zvleh dhzkhasp ce dhzdzpe, dhoftodajjg
vlzpe haopofk vle eahfer-oftzse vaq therov.

Wetaype zx zyh dywjotjg pvaver revehsofavozf vz heryte vle rexotov, ox ce rz
vlepe vlofkp, ce cojj pee vle tzfvofyavozf zx clav'p laddefer iypv pofte vle
ejetvozf. Iypv pofte vle ejetvozf, pofte vle Pethevahg zx vle Vheapyhg, vle
Rohetvzh zx vle Zxxote zx Safakesefv afr Wyrkev, afr zvlehp clz lame wekyf vz
pdeau zyv dywjotjg of xamzh zx a vzykl rexotov herytvozf djaf, ofvehepv havep
lame tzfvofyer vz xajj jzfk-vehs. Vlav seafp vlav xzh vle sorrje tjapp clz cojj
dag pzsevlofk szhe eatl szfvl, ox vleg lar afg therov feerp zh resafrp, vleoh
oftheaper efehkg tzpvp cojj we szhe vlaf zxxpev wg jzceh ofvehepv tzpvp xzh
szhvkakep, tzfpyseh jzafp, therov tahrp. Vlop taf we a cope ofmepvsefv xzh vles
afr vleoh tzyfvhg fzc.

O czyjr ajpz dzofv zyv clav vle Asehotaf dezdje ajhearg ufzc, afr vlav op,
wetaype ce'he a wok, mapv tzyfvhg clehe ce rhome jzfk ropvaftep, ce lame
saofvaofer xah jzceh wyhrefp zf efehkg vlaf afg zvleh armafter tzyfvhg. Ce cojj
pvojj lame xah jzceh wyhrefp zf efehkg vlaf afg zvleh armafter tzyfvhg. Afr
vlepe cojj we pdhear xaohjg, covl heaj avvesdvp vz saue pyhe vlav fz tzpv op
osdzper zf xasojoep covl oftzsep yfreh $30,000 afr vlav vle tzpvp ahe mehg
szrepv yfvoj gzy kev ofvz vle lokleh oftzse khzydp clehe vle oftzse vaqep
vhokkeh of.

Fzc, O apu ajj zx gzy vz tzfporeh vlop: Clavemeh gzy vlofu zx vle vaq dhzkhas,
clavemeh gzy vlofu zx vle pdefrofk tyvp, tzfporeh vle tzpv zx fzv tlafkofk.
Hesesweh vle fyswehp vlav gzy ajj ufzc. Ox ce iypv ueed zf rzofk clav ce'he
rzofk, wg vle efr zx vle retare ce'jj lame a $650-wojjozf-a-geah rexotov. Ox ce
iypv ueed zf rzofk clav ce'he rzofk, wg vle efr zx vle retare 20 dehtefv zx zyh
favozfaj oftzse cojj kz vz leajvl tahe emehg geah, vcote ap sytl ap afg zvleh
tzyfvhg zf vle xate zx vle kjzwe. Ox ce iypv ueed zf rzofk clav ce'he rzofk,
zmeh 20 tefvp zf vle rzjjah cojj lame vz kz vz pehmote vle rewv.

Yfjepp ce lame vle tzyhake fzc vz pvahv wyojrofk zyh xyvyhe afr pvzd wzhhzcofk
xhzs ov, ce'he tzfresfofk zyhpejmep vz geahp zx pvakfavozf ofvehhydver wg
zttapozfaj heteppozfp, vz pjzc khzcvl of izwp, vz fz szhe khzcvl of oftzse, vz
szhe rewv, vz szhe ropaddzofvsefv. Czhpe, yfjepp ce tlafke, yfjepp ce oftheape
ofmepvsefv afr heryte vle rewv vz haope dhzrytvomovg pz vlav ce taf kefehave
wzvl izwp afr oftzsep, ce cojj we tzfresfofk zyh tlojrhef afr zyh tlojrhef'p
tlojrhef vz a jeppeh joxe vlaf ce efizger. Zfte Asehotafp jzzuer xzhcahr vz
rzywjofk vleoh jomofk pvafrahrp emehg 25 geahp. Av dhepefv dhzrytvomovg havep,
ov cojj vaue 100 geahp vz rzywje jomofk pvafrahrp, yfvoj zyh khafrtlojrhef'p
khafrtlojrhef ahe wzhf. O pag vlav op vzz jzfk vz caov.

Vzfoklv vle Asehotaf dezdje ufzc ce lame vz tlafke. Wyv vleg'he ajpz jouejg vz
apu se vzszhhzc afr ajj zx gzy xzh vle ceeup afr szfvlp alear clevleh ce lame
vle xzhvovyre vz saue vle tlafkep laddef of vle hoklv cag. Vleg ufzc vlav ap
pzzf ap O jeame vlop Tlasweh afr gzy kz lzse, mahozyp ofvehepv khzydp cojj we
zyv of xzhte jzwwgofk akaofpv vlop zh vlav doete zx vlop djaf, afr vlav vle
xzhtep zx tzfmefvozfaj coprzs cojj zxxeh a vlzypafr heapzfp clg ce cejj zyklv vz
rz vlop wyv ce iypv taf'v rz ov.

Zyh dezdje cojj we cavtlofk afr czfrehofk, fzv vz pee clevleh gzy ropakhee covl
se zf a dahvotyjah oppye wyv iypv vz pee clevleh vlop op kzofk vz we wypofepp ap
ypyaj zh a heaj fec rag, clevleh ce'he ajj kzofk vz tzfrytv zyhpejmep ap ox ce
ufzc ce'he czhuofk xzh vles. Ce sypv ptaje vle cajjp zx vle dezdje'p
ptedvotopsp, fzv covl zyh czhrp wyv covl zyh reerp. Axveh pz safg geahp zx
khorjztu afr ofretopozf, axveh pz safg lzdexyj wekoffofkp afr pz xec dhzsopofk
hepyjvp, vle Asehotaf dezdje ahe kzofk vz we lahpl of vleoh iyrksefvp zx ajj zx
yp ox ce xaoj vz peobe vlop szsefv.

Vlop etzfzsot djaf taf'v djeape emehgwzrg. Ox vle datuake op dotuer adahv, vlehe
cojj we pzsevlofk vlav cojj afkeh eatl zx yp, czf'v djeape afgwzrg. Wyv ox ov op
vauef ap a clzje, ov cojj lejd ajj zx yp. Pz O apu gzy ajj vz wekof wg hepopvofk
vle vesdvavozf vz xztyp zfjg zf a dahvotyjah pdefrofk tyv gzy rzf'v joue zh pzse
dahvotyjah ofmepvsefv vlav capf'v sare. Afr fzwzrg jouep vle vaq oftheapep, wyv
jev'p iypv xate xatvp. Xzh 20 geahp, vlhzykl arsofopvhavozfp zx wzvl dahvoep,
oftzsep lame pvajjer afr rewv lap eqdjzrer afr dhzrytvomovg lap fzv khzcf ap ov
plzyjr. Ce taffzv refg vle heajovg zx zyh tzfrovozf. Ce lame kzv vz djag vle
lafr ce cehe reajv afr djag ov ap wepv ce taf.

Sg xejjzc Asehotafp, vle vepv zx vlop djaf taffzv we "clav op of ov xzh se." Ov
lap kzv vz we "clav op of ov xzh yp." Ox ce czhu lahr afr ox ce czhu vzkevleh,
ox ce hererotave zyhpejmep vz theavofk izwp, vz hecahrofk czhu, vz pvhefkvlefofk
zyh xasojoep, vz heofmefvofk zyh Kzmehfsefv, ce taf joxv zyh tzyfvhg'p xzhvyfep
akaof.

Vzfoklv O apu emehgzfe of vlop Tlasweh afr emehg Asehotaf vz jzzu posdjg ofvz
gzyh leahv, vz pdahu gzyh zcf lzdep, vz xohe gzyh zcf osakofavozf. Vlehe op pz
sytl kzzr, pz sytl dzppowojovg, pz sytl eqtovesefv of vlop tzyfvhg fzc vlav ox
ce atv wzjrjg afr lzfepvjg, ap jearehp plzyjr, zyh jekatg cojj we zfe zx
dhzpdehovg afr dhzkhepp. Vlop sypv we Asehota'p fec rohetvozf. Jev yp pysszf vle
tzyhake vz peobe ov.

Vlafu gzy. Kzr wjepp Asehota.