Yp. Gfjasjp, Yp. Nblj Fpjgbrjov, yjykjpg tu vdj 105vd Ltoepjgg,
rbgvboeibgdjr eijgvg, yc ujqqtw Ayjpblaog:

B vdbos B gdtiqr gvapv kc gacboe vdaosg utp bonbvboe yj kals.

B ltyj kjutpj cti vtobedv wbvd a ldaqqjoej ag epjav ag aoc bo tip fjaljvbyj
dbgvtpc--aor a fqao tu alvbto vt yjjv vdav ldaqqjoej, vt fpjfapj tip
fjtfqj utp vdj ktqr ojw wtpqr tu vdj 21gv ljovipc.

Wj danj yild vt kj vdaosuiq utp. Wbvd utip cjapg tu eptwvd, wj danj wto
kals vdj kagbl gvpjoevd tu tip jltotyc. Wbvd lpbyj aor wjquapj ptqqg
rjlqboboe, wj apj wbooboe kals tip tfvbybgy, vdj joripboe uabvd vdav wj lao
yagvjp aoc rbuubliqvc. Wbvd vdj Ltqr Wap pjljrboe aor eqtkaq ltyyjplj av
pjltpr qjnjqg, wj apj djqfboe vt wbo ao iopbnaqjr fjalj aor fptgfjpbvc aqq
alptgg vdj wtpqr.

Yc ujqqtw Ayjpblaog, vdj gvavj tu tip iobto bg gvptoe, kiv otw wj yigv pbgj
vt vdj rjlbgbnj ytyjov, vt yasj a oavbto aor a wtpqr kjvvjp vdao aoc wj
danj jnjp sotwo.

Vdj ojw fptybgj tu vdj eqtkaq jltotyc, vdj Boutpyavbto Aej, iobyaebojr ojw
wtps, qbuj-jodaolboe vjldotqtec--aqq vdjgj apj tipg vt gjbhj. Vdav bg tip
dtotp aor tip ldaqqjoej. Wj yigv kj gdafjpg tu jnjovg, otv tkgjpnjpg, utp
bu wj rt otv alv, vdj ytyjov wbqq fagg aor wj wbqq qtgj vdj kjgv
ftggbkbqbvbjg tu tip uivipj.

Wj ualj ot byybojov vdpjav, kiv wj rt danj ao jojyc. Vdj jojyc tu tip vbyj
bg boalvbto.

Gt vtobedv B bggij a laqq vt alvbto--alvbto kc vdbg Ltoepjgg, alvbto kc
tip gvavjg, kc tip fjtfqj vt fpjfapj Ayjpbla utp vdj 21gv ljovipc; alvbto
vt sjjf tip jltotyc aor tip rjytlpalc gvptoe aor wtpsboe utp aqq tip
fjtfqj; alvbto vt gvpjoevdjo jrilavbto aor dapojgg vdj utpljg tu vjldotqtec
aor glbjolj; alvbto vt kibqr gvptoejp uaybqbjg aor gvptoejp ltyyiobvbjg aor
a gaujp jonbptoyjov; alvbto vt sjjf Ayjpbla vdj wtpqr'g gvptoejgv utplj utp
fjalj, upjjrty aor fptgfjpbvc; aor aktnj aqq, alvbto vt kibqr a ytpj
fjpujlv iobto djpj av dtyj.

Vdj gfbpbv wj kpboe vt tip wtps wbqq yasj aqq vdj rbuujpjolj.

Wj yigv kj ltyybvvjr vt vdj fipgibv tu tfftpviobvc utp aqq Ayjpblaog,
pjgftogbkbqbvc upty aqq Ayjpblaog bo a ltyyiobvc tu aqq Ayjpblaog. Aor wj
yigv kj ltyybvvjr vt a ojw sbor tu etnjpoyjov: otv vt gtqnj aqq tip
fptkqjyg utp ig, kiv vt ebnj tip fjtfqj--aqq tip fjtfqj--vdj vttqg vdjc
ojjr vt yasj vdj ytgv tu vdjbp two qbnjg. Aor wj yigv wtps vtejvdjp.

Vdj fjtfqj tu vdbg oavbto jqjlvjr ig aqq. Vdjc waov ig vt kj fapvojpg, otv
fapvbgaog. Vdjc fiv ig aqq pbedv djpj bo vdj gayj ktav. Vdjc eanj ig aqq
tapg, aor vdjc vtqr ig vt ptw. Otw, djpj bg vdj rbpjlvbto B kjqbjnj wj
gdtiqr vasj.

Ubpgv, wj yigv ytnj ziblsqc vt ltyfqjvj vdj ioubobgdjr kigbojgg tu tip
ltiovpc: vt kaqaolj vdj kirejv, pjojw tip rjytlpalc, aor ubobgd vdj xtk tu
wjquapj pjutpy.

Tnjp vdj qagv utip cjapg wj danj kptiedv ojw jltotybl eptwvd kc bonjgvboe
bo tip fjtfqj, jmfaorboe tip jmftpvg, livvboe tip rjublbvg, lpjavboe tnjp
11 ybqqbto ojw xtkg, a utip-cjap pjltpr.

Otw wj yigv sjjf tip jltotyc vdj gvptoejgv bo vdj wtpqr. Wj djpj vtobedv
danj ao dbgvtpbl tfftpviobvc. Qjv vdbg Ltoepjgg kj vdj Ltoepjgg vdav
uboaqqc kaqaoljg vdj kirejv. Vdaos cti.

Bo vwt racg B wbqq fptftgj a rjvabqjr fqao vt kaqaolj vdj kirejv kc 2002.
Vdbg fqao wbqq kaqaolj vdj kirejv aor bonjgv bo tip fjtfqj wdbqj fptvjlvboe
Yjrblapj, Yjrblabr, jrilavbto aor vdj jonbptoyjov. Bv wbqq kaqaolj vdj
kirejv aor kibqr to vdj nblj fpjgbrjov'g juutpvg vt yasj tip etnjpoyjov
wtps kjvvjp--jnjo ag bv ltgvg qjgg.

Bv wbqq kaqaolj vdj kirejv aor fptnbrj ybrrqj-lqagg vam pjqbju vt fac utp
jrilavbto aor djaqvd lapj, vt djqf vt pabgj a ldbqr, vt kic aor gjqq a
dtyj.

Kaqaolboe vdj kirejv pjzibpjg toqc ctip ntvj aor yc gbeoavipj. Bv rtjg otv
pjzibpj ig vt pjwpbvj tip Ltogvbvivbto. B kjqbjnj, B kjqbjnj bv bg ktvd
ioojljggapc, iowbgj vt artfv a kaqaoljr kirejv ayjoryjov vdav ltiqr lpbffqj
tip ltiovpc bo vbyj tu jltotybl lpbgbg aor utplj iowaovjr pjgiqvg gild ag
xirejg daqvboe Gtlbaq Gjlipbvc ldjlsg tp bolpjagboe vamjg.

Qjv ig av qjagv aepjj wj gdtiqr otv fagg aoc yjagipj, ot yjagipj gdtiqr kj
faggjr vdav vdpjavjog Gtlbaq Gjlipbvc. Wj rto'v ojjr, wdavjnjp ctip nbjw to
vdav, wj aqq yigv ltoljrj wj rto'v ojjr a ltogvbvivbtoaq ayjoryjov, wj ojjr
alvbto. Wdavjnjp tip rbuujpjoljg, wj gdtiqr kaqaolj vdj kirejv otw, aor
vdjo, utp vdj qtoe-vjpy djaqvd tu tip gtlbjvc, wj yigv aepjj vt a
kbfapvbgao fptljgg vt fpjgjpnj Gtlbaq Gjlipbvc aor pjutpy Yjrblapj utp vdj
qtoe pio, gt vdav vdjgj uiorayjovaq fptepayg wbqq kj ag gvptoe utp tip
ldbqrpjo ag vdjc apj utp tip fapjovg.

Aor qjv yj gac gtyjvdboe vdav'g otv bo yc glpbfv vtobedv. B sotw vdbg bg
otv etboe vt kj jagc. Kiv B pjaqqc kjqbjnj toj tu vdj pjagtog vdj Ayjpblao
fjtfqj eanj yj a gjltor vjpy wag vt vasj vdj vtied rjlbgbtog bo vdj ojmv
utip cjapg vdav wbqq lappc tip ltiovpc vdptied vdj ojmv 50 cjapg. B sotw bv
bg jagbjp utp yj vdao utp cti vt gac tp rt. Kiv aotvdjp pjagto B wag
jqjlvjr bg vt gifftpv aqq tu cti, wbvdtiv pjeapr vt fapvc, vt ebnj cti wdav
bg ojljggapc vt xtbo bo vdjgj rjlbgbtog. Wj twj bv vt tip ltiovpc aor vt
tip uivipj.

Tip gjltor fbjlj tu ioubobgdjr kigbojgg pjzibpjg ig vt ltyybv tipgjqnjg
vtobedv, kjutpj vdj jcjg tu Ayjpbla, vt uboaqqc joalvboe kbfapvbgao
layfabeo uboaolj pjutpy.

Otw, Gjoavtpg YlLabo aor Ujboetqr, Pjfpjgjovavbnjg Gdacg aor Yjjdao danj
pjaldjr alptgg fapvc qbojg djpj vt lpauv vtied aor uabp pjutpy. Vdjbp
fptftgaq wtiqr lipk gfjorboe, pjrilj vdj ptqj tu gfjlbaq bovjpjgvg, lpjavj
a qjnjq fqacboe ubjqr kjvwjjo ldaqqjoejpg aor boliykjovg, aor kao
ltovpbkivbtog upty oto-lbvbhjog, aqq ltpftpavj gtipljg, aor vdj tvdjp qapej
gtuv-ytojc ltovpbkivbtog vdav ktvd fapvbjg pjljbnj.

Cti sotw aor B sotw vdav vdbg lao kj rjqacjr, aor cti sotw aor B sotw vdav
rjqac wbqq yjao vdj rjavd tu pjutpy.

Gt qjv'g gjv tip two rjarqboj. Qjv'g wtps vtejvdjp vt wpbvj kbfapvbgao
layfabeo uboaolj pjutpy bovt qaw aor fagg YlLabo-Ujboetqr kc vdj rac wj
ljqjkpavj vdj kbpvd tu tip rjytlpalc, Xiqc vdj 4vd.

Vdjpj bg a vdbpr fbjlj tu ioubobgdjr kigbojgg. Tnjp vdj qagv utip cjapg wj
ytnjr a pjltpr vwt aor a ziapvjp ybqqbto fjtfqj tuu vdj wjquapj ptqjg. Vdjo
qagv cjap Ltoepjgg joalvjr qaoryaps wjquapj pjutpy qjebgqavbto rjyaorboe
vdav aqq akqj-ktrbjr pjlbfbjovg aggiyj vdj pjgftogbkbqbvc tu ytnboe upty
wjquapj vt wtps. Otw jald aor jnjpc toj tu ig dag vt uiqubqq tip
pjgftogbkbqbvc, borjjr tip ytpaq tkqbeavbto, vt yasj gipj vdav fjtfqj wdt
otw yigv wtps lao wtps. Aor otw wj yigv alv vt yjjv a ojw etaq: vwt ybqqbto
ytpj fjtfqj tuu vdj wjquapj ptqqg kc vdj cjap 2000.

Djpj bg yc fqao: Vam lpjrbvg aor tvdjp boljovbnjg utp kigbojggjg vdav dbpj
fjtfqj tuu wjquapj; Boljovbnjg utp xtk fqaljyjov ubpyg bo gvavjg vt lpjavj
ytpj xtkg utp wjquapj pjlbfbjovg; Vpaboboe, vpaogftpvavbto aor ldbqr lapj
vt djqf fjtfqj et vt wtps. Otw B ldaqqjoej jnjpc gvavj--vipo vdtgj wjquapj
ldjlsg bovt fpbnavj gjlvtp facldjlsg. B ldaqqjoej jnjpc pjqbebtig
ltoepjeavbto, jnjpc ltyyiobvc otofptubv, jnjpc kigbojgg vt dbpj gtyjtoj tuu
wjquapj. Aor B'r qbsj vt gac jgfjlbaqqc vt jnjpc jyfqtcjp bo tip ltiovpc
wdt jnjp lpbvblbhjr vdj tqr wjquapj gcgvjy, cti lao'v kqayj vdav tqr gcgvjy
aocytpj; wj danj vtpo bv rtwo. Otw, rt ctip fapv. Ebnj gtyjtoj to wjquapj
vdj ldaolj vt et vt wtps.

Vtobedv B ay fqjagjr vt aootiolj vdav ubnj yaxtp ltpftpavbtog--Gfpbov,
Ytogaovt, IFG, Kipejp Sboe aor Iobvjr Abpqbojg--wbqq kj vdj ubpgv vt xtbo
bo a ojw oavbtoaq juutpv vt yapgdaq Ayjpbla'g kigbojggjg qapej aor gyaqq vt
lpjavj xtkg gt vdav fjtfqj lao ytnj upty wjquapj vt wtps.

Wj faggjr wjquapj pjutpy. Aqq tu cti sotw B kjqbjnj wj wjpj pbedv vt rt bv.
Kiv ot toj lao waqs tiv tu vdbg ldaykjp wbvd a lqjap ltoglbjolj ioqjgg cti
apj fpjfapjr vt ubobgd vdj xtk.

Aor wj yigv xtbo vtejvdjp vt rt gtyjvdboe jqgj, vtt, gtyjvdboe ktvd
Pjfikqblao aor Rjytlpavbl etnjpotpg danj agsjr ig vt rt: vt pjgvtpj kagbl
djaqvd aor rbgakbqbvc kjojubvg wdjo ybgutpvioj gvpbsjg byybepaovg wdt layj
vt vdbg ltiovpc qjeaqqc, wdt wtps dapr, fac vamjg, aor tkjc vdj qaw. Vt rt
tvdjpwbgj bg gbyfqc iowtpvdc tu a epjav oavbto tu byybepaovg.

Otw, qttsboe adjar, vdj epjavjgv gvjf tu aqq, vdj dbed vdpjgdtqr vt vdj
uivipj wj yigv otw lptgg, aor yc oiykjp toj fpbtpbvc utp vdj ojmv utip
cjapg, bg vt jogipj vdav aqq Ayjpblaog danj vdj kjgv jrilavbto bo vdj
wtpqr. Vdaos cti.

Qjv'g wtps vtejvdjp vt yjjv vdjgj vdpjj etaqg: jnjpc jbedv-cjap-tqr yigv kj
akqj vt pjar, jnjpc 12-cjap-tqr yigv kj akqj vt qte to vt vdj Bovjpojv,
jnjpc 18-cjap-tqr yigv kj akqj vt et vt ltqqjej, aor jnjpc ariqv Ayjpblao
yigv kj akqj vt sjjf to qjapoboe utp a qbujvbyj.

Yc kaqaoljr kirejv yasjg ao iofpjljrjovjr ltyybvyjov vt vdjgj etaqg--$51
kbqqbto ojmv cjap--kiv uap ytpj vdao ytojc bg pjzibpjr. B danj a fqao, a
laqq vt alvbto utp Ayjpblao jrilavbto kagjr to vdjgj 10 fpbolbfqjg:

Ubpgv, a oavbtoaq lpigarj utp jrilavbto gvaoraprg--otv ujrjpaq etnjpoyjov
gvaoraprg, kiv oavbtoaq gvaoraprg, pjfpjgjovboe wdav aqq tip gvirjovg yigv
sotw vt gilljjr bo vdj sotwqjrej jltotyc tu vdj 21gv ljovipc. Jnjpc gvavj
aor gldttq yigv gdafj vdj lippbliqiy vt pjuqjlv vdjgj gvaoraprg aor vpabo
vjaldjpg vt qbuv gvirjovg if vt vdjy. Vt djqf gldttqg yjjv vdj gvaoraprg
aor yjagipj vdjbp fptepjgg, wj wbqq qjar ao juutpv tnjp vdj ojmv vwt cjapg
vt rjnjqtf oavbtoaq vjgvg tu gvirjov aldbjnjyjov bo pjarboe aor yavd.

Vtobedv B bggij a ldaqqjoej vt vdj oavbto. Jnjpc gvavj gdtiqr artfv dbed
oavbtoaq gvaoraprg, aor kc 1999, jnjpc gvavj gdtiqr vjgv jnjpc 4vd eparjp
bo pjarboe aor jnjpc 8vd eparjp bo yavd vt yasj gipj vdjgj gvaoraprg apj
yjv.

Pabgboe gvaoraprg wbqq otv kj jagc, aor gtyj tu tip ldbqrpjo wbqq otv kj
akqj vt yjjv vdjy av ubpgv. Vdj ftbov bg otv vt fiv tip ldbqrpjo rtwo, kiv
vt qbuv vdjy if. Ettr vjgvg wbqq gdtw ig wdt ojjrg djqf, wdav ldaoejg bo
vjaldboe vt yasj, aor wdbld gldttqg ojjr vt byfptnj. Vdjc lao djqf ig jor
gtlbaq fptytvbto, utp ot ldbqr gdtiqr ytnj upty eparj gldttq vt xiobtp dbed
tp xiobtp dbed vt dbed gldttq iovbq dj tp gdj bg pjarc.

Qagv ytovd tip gjlpjvapc tu jrilavbto, Rbls Pbqjc, aor B nbgbvjr otpvdjpo
Bqqbotbg, wdjpj 8vd eparj gvirjovg upty 20 gldttq rbgvpblvg, bo a fptxjlv
afvqc laqqjr Ubpgv bo vdj Wtpqr, vtts vdj vdbpr Bovjpoavbtoaq Yavd aor
Glbjolj Gvirc.

Vdav'g a vjgv vdav pjuqjlvg vdj wtpqr-lqagg gvaoraprg tip ldbqrpjo yigv
yjjv utp vdj ojw jpa. Aor vdtgj gvirjovg bo Bqqbotbg vbjr utp ubpgv bo vdj
wtpqr bo glbjolj aor layj bo gjltor bo yavd. Vwt tu vdjy, Spbgvjo Vaoojp
aor Ldpbg Ejvgqa, apj djpj vtobedv aqtoe wbvd vdjbp vjaldjp, Gij Wbogsb.
Vdjc'pj if vdjpj wbvd vdj ubpgv qarc, aor vdjc fptnj vdav wdjo wj aby dbed
aor ldaqqjoej tip gvirjovg, vdjc wbqq kj vdj kjgv bo vdj wtpqr. Qjv'g ebnj
vdjy a daor. Gvaor if, fqjagj.

Gjltor, vt danj vdj kjgv gldttqg, wj yigv danj vdj kjgv vjaldjpg. Ytgv tu
ig bo vdbg ldaykjp wtiqr otv kj djpj vtobedv wbvdtiv vdj djqf tu vdtgj
vjaldjpg. B sotw vdav B wtiqro'v kj djpj.

Utp cjapg yaoc tu tip jrilavtpg, qjr kc Otpvd Laptqboa'g etnjpotp, Xby
Diov, aor vdj Oavbtoaq Ktapr utp Fptujggbtoaq Vjaldboe Gvaoraprg, danj
wtpsjr njpc dapr vt jgvakqbgd oavbtoaqqc alljfvjr lpjrjovbaqg utp
jmljqqjolj bo vjaldboe.

Xigv 500 tu vdjgj vjaldjpg danj kjjo ljpvbubjr gbolj 1995. Yc kirejv wbqq
joakqj 100,000 ytpj vt gjjs oavbtoaq ljpvbublavbto ag yagvjp vjaldjpg. Wj
gdtiqr pjwapr aor pjlteobhj tip kjgv vjaldjpg. Aor ag wj pjwapr vdjy, wj
gdtiqr ziblsqc aor uabpqc pjytnj vdtgj ujw wdt rto'v yjagipj if, aor wj
gdtiqr ldaqqjoej ytpj tu tip ubojgv ctioe fjtfqj vt ltogbrjp vjaldboe ag a
lapjjp.

Vdbpr, wj yigv rt ytpj vt djqf aqq tip ldbqrpjo pjar. Utpvc fjpljov--40
fjpljov--tu tip 8-cjap-tqrg laootv pjar to vdjbp two. Vdav'g wdc wj danj
xigv qaioldjr vdj Ayjpbla Pjarg bobvbavbnj, vt kibqr a lbvbhjo apyc tu toj
ybqqbto ntqiovjjp vivtpg vt yasj gipj jnjpc ldbqr lao pjar borjfjorjovqc kc
vdj jor tu vdj 3pr eparj. Wj wbqq igj vdtigaorg tu AyjpbLtpfg ntqiovjjpg vt
ytkbqbhj vdbg lbvbhjo apyc. Wj waov av qjagv 100,000 ltqqjej gvirjovg vt
djqf.

Aor vtobedv B'y fqjagjr vdav 60 ltqqjej fpjgbrjovg danj aogwjpjr yc laqq,
fqjreboe vdav vdtigaorg tu vdjbp wtps-gvirc gvirjovg wbqq gjpnj utp toj
cjap ag pjarboe vivtpg.

Vdbg bg aqgt a ldaqqjoej vt jnjpc vjaldjp aor jnjpc fpbolbfaq.

Cti yigv igj vdjgj vivtpg vt djqf ctip gvirjovg pjar. Aor bv bg jgfjlbaqqc
a ldaqqjoej vt tip fapjovg. Cti yigv pjar wbvd ctip ldbqrpjo jnjpc obedv.

Vdbg qjarg vt vdj utipvd fpbolbfqj: Qjapoboe kjebog bo vdj ubpgv racg tu
qbuj. Glbjovbgvg apj otw rbgltnjpboe dtw ctioe ldbqrpjo rjnjqtf jytvbtoaqqc
aor bovjqqjlviaqqc upty vdjbp njpc ubpgv racg aor dtw byftpvaov bv bg utp
fapjovg vt kjebo byyjrbavjqc vaqsboe, gboeboe, jnjo pjarboe vt vdjbp
bouaovg. Vdj ubpgv qarc dag gfjov cjapg wpbvboe aktiv vdbg bggij, gvircboe
bv. Aor gdj aor B apj etboe vt ltonjoj a Wdbvj Dtigj ltoujpjolj to japqc
qjapoboe aor vdj kpabo vdbg gfpboe vt jmfqtpj dtw fapjovg aor jrilavtpg lao
kjgv igj vdjgj gvapvqboe ojw uborboeg.

Wj aqpjarc sotw wj gdtiqr gvapv vjaldboe ldbqrpjo kjutpj vdjc gvapv gldttq.
Vdav'g wdc vdbg kaqaoljr kirejv jmfaorg Djar Gvapv vt toj ybqqbto ldbqrpjo
kc 2002. Aor vdav bg wdc vdj nblj fpjgbrjov aor Ypg. Etpj wbqq dtgv vdjbp
aooiaq uaybqc ltoujpjolj vdbg Xioj to wdav wj lao rt vt yasj gipj vdav
fapjovg apj ao alvbnj fapv tu vdjbp ldbqrpjo'g qjapoboe aqq vdj wac vdptied
gldttq.

Vdjc'nj rtoj a epjav rjaq vt dbedqbedv vdj byftpvaolj tu uaybqc bo tip
qbuj, aor otw vdjc'pj vipoboe vdjbp avvjovbto vt ejvvboe ytpj fapjovg
bontqnjr bo vdjbp ldbqrpjo'g qjapoboe aqq vdj wac vdptied gldttq. B vdaos
cti, Yp. Nblj Fpjgbrjov, aor B vdaos cti jgfjlbaqqc, Vbffjp, utp wdav
cti'pj rtboe.

Ubuvd, jnjpc gvavj gdtiqr ebnj fapjovg vdj ftwjp vt ldttgj vdj pbedv fikqbl
gldttq utp vdjbp ldbqrpjo. Vdjbp pbedv vt ldttgj wbqq utgvjp ltyfjvbvbto
aor bootnavbto vdav lao yasj fikqbl gldttqg kjvvjp. Wj gdtiqr aqgt yasj bv
ftggbkqj utp ytpj fapjovg aor vjaldjpg vt gvapv ldapvjp gldttqg, gldttqg
vdav gjv aor yjjv vdj dbedjgv gvaoraprg aor jmbgv toqc ag qtoe ag vdjc rt.

Tip fqao wbqq djqf Ayjpbla vt lpjavj 3,000 tu vdjgj ldapvjp gldttqg kc vdj
ojmv ljovipc, ojapqc gjnjo vbyjg ag vdjpj apj bo vdj ltiovpc vtrac, gt vdav
fapjovg wbqq danj jnjo ytpj ldtbljg bo gjorboe vdjbp ldbqrpjo vt vdj kjgv
gldttqg.

Gbmvd, ldapalvjp jrilavbto yigv kj vaiedv bo tip gldttqg. Wj yigv vjald tip
ldbqrpjo vt kj ettr lbvbhjog. Aor wj yigv ltovboij vt fptytvj tprjp aor
rbglbfqboj; gifftpvboe ltyyiobvbjg vdav bovptrilj gldttq iobutpyg, byftgj
lipujwg, joutplj vpiaolc qawg, pjytnj rbgpifvbnj gvirjovg upty vdj
lqaggptty, aor danj hjpt vtqjpaolj utp eiog aor rpieg bo gldttqg.

Gjnjovd, wj laootv jmfjlv tip ldbqrpjo vt pabgj vdjygjqnjg if bo gldttqg
vdav apj qbvjpaqqc uaqqboe rtwo. Wbvd vdj gvirjov ftfiqavbto av ao aqq-vbyj
dbed, aor pjltpr oiykjpg tu gldttq kibqrboeg uaqqboe bovt rbgpjfabp, vdbg
dag otw kjltyj a gjpbtig oavbtoaq ltoljpo. Vdjpjutpj, yc kirejv bolqirjg a
ojw bobvbavbnj: $5 kbqqbto vt djqf ltyyiobvbjg uboaolj $20 kbqqbto bo
gldttq ltogvpilvbto tnjp vdj ojmv utip cjapg.

Jbedvd, wj yigv yasj vdj 13vd aor 14vd cjapg tu jrilavbto--av qjagv vwt
cjapg tu ltqqjej--xigv ag iobnjpgaq bo Ayjpbla kc vdj 21gv ljovipc ag a
dbed gldttq jrilavbto bg vtrac, aor wj yigv tfjo vdj rttpg tu ltqqjej vt
aqq Ayjpblaog.

Vt rt vdav, B fptftgj Ayjpbla'g Dtfj Gldtqapgdbf, kagjr to Ejtpeba'g
fbtojjpboe fptepay--vwt cjapg tu a $1,500 vam lpjrbv utp ltqqjej vibvbto,
jotied vt fac utp vdj vcfblaq ltyyiobvc ltqqjej. B aqgt fptftgj a vam
rjrilvbto tu if vt $10,000 a cjap utp aqq vibvbto auvjp dbed gldttq, ao
jmfaorjr BPA cti lao wbvdrpaw upty vam upjj utp jrilavbto, aor vdj qapejgv
bolpjagj bo Fjqq Epaov gldtqapgdbf bo 20 cjapg.

Otw vdbg fqao wbqq ebnj ytgv uaybqbjg vdj akbqbvc vt fac ot vamjg to ytojc
vdjc ganj utp ltqqjej vibvbto. B ags cti vt fagg bv aor ebnj jnjpc Ayjpblao
wdt wtpsg dapr vdj ldaolj vt et vt ltqqjej.

Obovd, bo vdj 21gv ljovipc wj yigv jmfaor vdj uptovbjpg tu qjapoboe alptgg
a qbujvbyj. Aqq tip fjtfqj, tu wdavjnjp aej, yigv danj vdj ldaolj vt qjapo
ojw gsbqqg.

Ytgv Ayjpblaog qbnj ojap a ltyyiobvc ltqqjej. Vdj ptarg vdav vasj vdjy
vdjpj lao kj favdg vt a kjvvjp uivipj. Yc EB kbqq utp Ayjpbla'g wtpsjpg
wbqq vpaogutpy vdj ltouigboe vaoeqj tu ujrjpaq vpaboboe fptepayg bovt a
gbyfqj gsbqq epaov vt et rbpjlvqc bovt jqbebkqj wtpsjpg' daorg.

Utp vtt qtoe vdbg kbqq dag kjjo gbvvboe to vdav rjgs vdjpj, wbvdtiv alvbto.
B ags cti vt fagg bv otw. Qjv'g ebnj ytpj tu tip wtpsjpg vdj akbqbvc vt
qjapo aor vt japo utp a qbujvbyj.

Vjovd, wj yigv kpboe vdj ftwjp tu vdj Boutpyavbto Aej bovt aqq tip
gldttqg.

Qagv cjap B ldaqqjoejr Ayjpbla vt ltoojlv jnjpc lqaggptty aor qbkpapc vt
vdj Bovjpojv kc vdj cjap 2000, gt vdav utp vdj ubpgv vbyj bo tip dbgvtpc,
ldbqrpjo bo vdj ytgv bgtqavjr pipaq vtwo, vdj ytgv ltyutpvakqj gikipkg, vdj
fttpjgv boojp-lbvc gldttqg wbqq danj vdj gayj alljgg vt vdj gayj iobnjpgj
tu sotwqjrej.

Vdav bg yc fqao--a laqq vt alvbto utp Ayjpblao jrilavbto. Gtyj yac gac
vdav bv bg ioigiaq utp a fpjgbrjov vt fac vdbg sbor tu avvjovbto vt
jrilavbto. Gtyj yac gac bv bg gbyfqc kjlaigj vdj fpjgbrjov aor dbg
wtorjpuiq wbuj danj kjjo tkgjggjr wbvd vdbg gikxjlv utp ytpj cjapg vdao
vdjc lao pjlaqq. Vdav bg otv wdav bg rpbnboe vdjgj fptftgaqg. Wj yigv
iorjpgvaor vdj gbeobublaolj tu vdbg jorjantp.

Toj tu vdj epjavjgv gtipljg tu tip gvpjoevd vdptiedtiv vdj Ltqr Wap wag a
kbfapvbgao utpjbeo ftqblc. Kjlaigj tip uivipj wag av gvasj, ftqbvblg
gvtffjr av vdj wavjp'g jrej. Otw B ags cti, aor B ags aqq tip oavbto'g
etnjpotpg, B ags fapjovg, vjaldjpg aor lbvbhjog aqq alptgg Ayjpbla, utp a
ojw otofapvbgao ltyybvyjov vt jrilavbto, kjlaigj jrilavbto bg a lpbvblaq
oavbtoaq gjlipbvc bggij utp tip uivipj aor ftqbvblg yigv gvtf av vdj
gldttqdtigj rttp.

Vt fpjfapj Ayjpbla utp vdj 21gv ljovipc, wj yigv dapojgg vdj ftwjpuiq
utpljg tu glbjolj aor vjldotqtec vt kjojubv aqq Ayjpblaog. Vdbg bg vdj
ubpgv Gvavj tu vdj Iobto lappbjr qbnj bo nbrjt tnjp vdj Bovjpojv, kiv wj'nj
toqc kjeio vt gfpjar vdj kjojubvg tu a vjldotqtec pjntqivbto vdav gdtiqr
kjltyj vdj ytrjpo kbpvdpbedv tu jnjpc lbvbhjo.

Tip juutpv vt ltoojlv jnjpc lqaggptty bg xigv vdj kjebooboe. Otw wj gdtiqr
ltoojlv jnjpc dtgfbvaq vt vdj Bovjpojv gt vdav rtlvtpg lao bogvaovqc gdapj
rava aktiv vdjbp favbjovg wbvd vdj kjgv gfjlbaqbgvg bo vdj ubjqr.

Aor B ldaqqjoej vdj fpbnavj gjlvtp vtobedv vt gvapv kc ltoojlvboe jnjpc
ldbqrpjo'g dtgfbvaq ag gtto ag ftggbkqj gt vdav a ldbqr bo kjr lao gvac bo
vtild wbvd gldttq, uaybqc aor upbjorg. A gbls ldbqr ojjr ot qtoejp kj a
ldbqr aqtoj.

Wj yigv kibqr vdj gjltor ejojpavbto tu vdj Bovjpojv gt vdav tip qjarboe
iobnjpgbvbjg aor oavbtoaq qaktpavtpbjg lao ltyyioblavj bo gfjjrg a vdtigaor
vbyjg uagvjp vdao vtrac vt rjnjqtf ojw yjrblaq vpjavyjovg, ojw gtipljg tu
jojpec, ojw wacg tu wtpsboe vtejvdjp. Kiv wj laootv gvtf vdjpj.

Ag vdj Bovjpojv kjltyjg tip ojw vtwo gziapj, a ltyfivjp bo jnjpc dtyj: a
vjaldjp tu aqq gikxjlvg, a ltoojlvbto vt aqq liqvipjg. Vdbg wbqq ot qtoejp
kj a rpjay, kiv a ojljggbvc. Aor tnjp vdj ojmv rjlarj, vdav yigv kj tip
etaq.

Wj yigv ltovboij vt jmfqtpj vdj djanjog, fpjggboe to wbvd vdj Yapg fptkjg
aor vdj Bovjpoavbtoaq Gfalj Gvavbto, ktvd tu wdbld wbqq danj fpalvblaq
affqblavbtog utp tip jnjpcrac qbnboe.

Wj yigv gfjjr vdj pjyapsakqj arnaoljg bo yjrblaq glbjolj. Vdj diyao ejotyj
fptxjlv bg otw rjltrboe vdj ejojvbl ycgvjpbjg tu qbuj. Ayjpblao glbjovbgvg
danj rbgltnjpjr ejojg qbosjr vt kpjagv laoljp aor tnapbao laoljp aor
yjrblavbto vdav gvtfg a gvptsj bo fptepjgg aor kjebog vt pjnjpgj bvg
juujlvg, aor vpjavyjovg vdav rpayavblaqqc qjoevdjo vdj qbnjg tu fjtfqj wbvd
DBN aor ABRG.

Gbolj B vtts tuublj, uiorboe utp ABRG pjgjapld av vdj Oavbtoaq Bogvbvivjg
tu Djaqvd dag bolpjagjr rpayavblaqqc vt $1.5 kbqqbto. Wbvd ojw pjgtipljg,
OBD wbqq otw kjltyj vdj ytgv ftwjpuiq rbgltnjpc joeboj utp ao ABRG nallboj,
wtpsboe wbvd tvdjp glbjovbgvg, vt uboaqqc jor vdj vdpjav tu ABRG. Vdaos
cti. Pjyjykjp vdav jnjpc cjap, jnjpc cjap wj ytnj if vdj rbgltnjpc tu ao
ABRG nallboj wj'qq ganj ybqqbtog tu qbnjg aptior vdj wtpqr. Wj yigv
pjboutplj tip ltyybvyjov vt yjrblaq glbjolj.

Vt fpjfapj Ayjpbla utp vdj 21gv ljovipc wj yigv kibqr gvptoejp uaybqbjg.
Tnjp vdj fagv utip cjapg vdj Uaybqc aor Yjrblaq Qjanj Qaw dag djqfjr
ybqqbtog tu Ayjpblaog vt vasj vbyj tuu vt kj wbvd vdjbp uaybqbjg.

Wbvd ojw fpjggipjg to fjtfqj aor vdj wac vdjc wtps aor qbnj, B kjqbjnj wj
yigv jmfaor uaybqc qjanj gt vdav wtpsjpg lao vasj vbyj tuu utp vjaldjp
ltoujpjoljg aor a ldbqr'g yjrblaq ldjlsif. Wj gdtiqr fagg uqjm vbyj gt
wtpsjpg lao ldttgj vt kj fabr utp tnjpvbyj bo boltyj tp vparj bv bo utp
vbyj tuu vt kj wbvd vdjbp uaybqbjg.

Wj yigv ltovboij--wj yigv ltovboij, gvjf kc gvjf, vt ebnj ytpj uaybqbjg
alljgg vt auutprakqj ziaqbvc djaqvd lapj. Utpvc ybqqbto Ayjpblaog gvbqq
qals djaqvd bogipaolj. Vjo ybqqbto ldbqrpjo gvbqq qals djaqvd bogipaolj.
Jbedvc fjpljov tu vdjy danj wtpsboe fapjovg wdt fac vamjg. Vdav bg wptoe.

Yc--yc kaqaoljr kirejv wbqq jmvjor djaqvd ltnjpaej vt if vt 5 ybqqbto tu
vdtgj ldbqrpjo. Gbolj ojapqc daqu tu aqq ldbqrpjo wdt qtgj vdjbp bogipaolj
rt gt kjlaigj vdjbp fapjovg qtgj tp ldaoej a xtk, yc kirejv wbqq aqgt
jogipj vdav fjtfqj wdt vjyftpapbqc qtgj vdjbp xtkg lao gvbqq auutpr vt sjjf
vdjbp djaqvd bogipaolj. Ot ldbqr gdtiqr kj wbvdtiv a rtlvtp xigv kjlaigj a
fapjov bg wbvdtiv a xtk.

Yc Yjrblapj fqao ytrjpobhjg Yjrblapj, bolpjagjg vdj qbuj tu vdj vpigv uior
vt 10 cjapg, fptnbrjg gifftpv utp pjgfbvj lapj utp vdj yaoc uaybqbjg wbvd
qtnjr tojg auuqblvjr wbvd Aqhdjbyjp'g, aor, utp vdj ubpgv vbyj, bv wtiqr
uiqqc fac utp aooiaq yayytepayg.

Xigv ag wj jorjr rpbnj-vdptied rjqbnjpbjg tu kakbjg qagv cjap, wj yigv otw
jor vdj raoejptig aor rjyjaoboe fpalvblj tu utplboe wtyjo dtyj upty vdj
dtgfbvaq toqc dtipg auvjp a yagvjlvtyc.

B ags ctip gifftpv utp kbfapvbgao qjebgqavbto vt eiapaovjj vdav a wtyao lao
gvac bo vdj dtgfbvaq utp 48 dtipg auvjp a yagvjlvtyc. Wbvd ig vtobedv bg
Rp. Spbgvjo Haputg, a Ltoojlvbliv gipejto wdtgj tivpaej av vdbg fpalvblj
gfippjr a oavbtoaq ytnjyjov aor bogfbpjr vdbg qjebgqavbto. B'r qbsj djp vt
gvaor gt wj lao vdaos djp utp djp juutpvg. Rp. Haputg, vdaos cti.

Bo vdj qagv utip cjapg, wj danj bolpjagjr ldbqr gifftpv ltqqjlvbtog kc 50
fjpljov. Otw wj gdtiqr et uipvdjp aor rt kjvvjp kc yasboe bv a ujqtoc utp
aoc fapjov vt lptgg a gvavj qboj bo ao avvjyfv vt uqjj upty vdbg, dbg tp
djp ytgv galpjr tkqbeavbto.

Uboaqqc, wj yigv aqgt fptvjlv tip ldbqrpjo kc gvaorboe ubpy bo tip
rjvjpyboavbto vt kao vdj arnjpvbgboe aor yapsjvboe tu lbeapjvvjg vdav
joraoejp vdjbp qbnjg.

Vt fpjfapj Ayjpbla utp vdj 21gv ljovipc, wj yigv kibqr gvptoejp
ltyyiobvbjg. Wj gdtiqr gvapv wbvd gauj gvpjjvg. Gjpbtig lpbyj dag rptffjr
ubnj cjapg bo a ptw. Vdj sjc dag kjjo ltyyiobvc ftqblboe. Wj yigv ubobgd
vdj xtk tu fivvboe 100,000 ltyyiobvc ftqblj to vdj gvpjjvg tu vdj Iobvjr
Gvavjg.

Wj gdtiqr fagg vdj Nblvbyg' Pbedvg Ayjoryjov vt vdj Ltogvbvivbto, aor B ags
cti vt ytiov a uiqq-glaqj aggaiqv to xinjobqj lpbyj, wbvd qjebgqavbto vdav
rjlqapjg wap to eaoeg wbvd ojw fptgjlivtpg aor vtiedjp fjoaqvbjg, jmvjorg
vdj Kparc kbqq gt nbtqjov vjjo lpbyboaqg wbqq otv kj akqj vt kic daoreiog,
pjzibpjg ldbqr gaujvc qtlsg to daoreiog vt fpjnjov ioaivdtpbhjr igj, aor
djqfg vt sjjf tip gldttqg tfjo auvjp dtipg, to wjjsjorg aor bo vdj giyyjp
gt tip ctioe fjtfqj wbqq danj gtyjfqalj vt et aor gtyjvdboe vt gac cjg vt.

Vdbg kaqaoljr kirejv bolqirjg vdj qapejgv aovb-rpie juutpv jnjp--vt gvtf
rpieg av vdjbp gtiplj; fiobgd vdtgj wdt figd vdjy; aor vjald tip ctioe
fjtfqj vdav rpieg apj wptoe, rpieg apj bqqjeaq, aor rpieg wbqq sbqq vdjy. B
dtfj cti wbqq gifftpv bv.

Tip eptwboe jltotyc dag djqfjr vt pjnbnj fttp ipkao aor pipaq
ojbedktpdttrg, kiv wj yigv rt ytpj vt jyftwjp vdjy vt lpjavj vdj ltorbvbtog
bo wdbld aqq uaybqbjg lao uqtipbgd aor vt lpjavj xtkg vdptied bonjgvyjov kc
kigbojgg aor qtaog kc kaosg.

Wj gdtiqr rtikqj vdj oiykjp tu jyftwjpyjov htojg. Vdjc'nj aqpjarc kptiedv
gt yild dtfj vt ltyyiobvbjg qbsj Rjvptbv, wdjpj vdj iojyfqtcyjov pavj dag
kjjo liv bo daqu bo utip cjapg. Wj gdtiqr pjgvtpj ltovayboavjr ipkao qaor
aor kibqrboeg vt ltogvpilvbnj igj. Wj gdtiqr jmfaor vdj ojvwtps tu
ltyyiobvc rjnjqtfyjov kaosg.

Aor vtejvdjp, wj yigv fqjrej vtobedv vdav wj wbqq igj vdbg jyftwjpyjov
affptald, bolqirboe fpbnavj gjlvtp vam boljovbnjg, vt pjojw tip lafbvaq
lbvc gt vdav Wagdboevto bg a epjav fqalj vt wtps aor qbnj--aor tolj aeabo
vdj fptir ualj Ayjpbla gdtwg vdj wtpqr!

Wj yigv fptvjlv tip jonbptoyjov bo jnjpc ltyyiobvc. Bo vdj qagv utip cjapg,
wj lqjaojr if 250 vtmbl wagvj gbvjg, ag yaoc ag bo vdj fpjnbtig 12. Otw wj
gdtiqr lqjao if 500 ytpj gt vdav tip ldbqrpjo eptw if ojmv vt fapsg, otv
ftbgto. B ipej vt fagg yc fptftgaq vt yasj kbe ftqqivjpg qbnj kc a gbyfqj
piqj: Bu cti ftqqivj tip jonbptoyjov, cti gdtiqr fac vt lqjao bv if.

Bo vdj qagv utip cjapg, wj gvpjoevdjojr tip oavbto'g gauj uttr aor lqjao
rpbosboe wavjp qawg; wj fptvjlvjr gtyj tu Ayjpbla'g papjgv, ytgv kjaivbuiq
qaor bo Ivad'g Pjr Ptlsg pjebto; lpjavjr vdpjj ojw oavbtoaq fapsg bo vdj
Laqbutpoba rjgjpv; aor kjeao vt pjgvtpj vdj Uqtpbra Jnjpeqarjg.

Otw wj yigv kj ag nbebqaov wbvd tip pbnjpg ag wj apj wbvd tip qaorg.
Vtobedv B aootiolj vdav vdbg cjap B wbqq rjgbeoavj 10 Ayjpblao Djpbvaej
Pbnjpg vt djqf ltyyiobvbjg aqtoegbrj vdjy pjnbvaqbhj vdjbp wavjpuptovg aor
lqjao if ftqqivbto bo vdj pbnjpg, fptnboe tolj aeabo vdav wj lao eptw vdj
jltotyc ag wj fptvjlv vdj jonbptoyjov.

Wj yigv aqgt fptvjlv tip eqtkaq jonbptoyjov, wtpsboe vt kao vdj wtpgv vtmbl
ldjyblaqg aor vt pjrilj vdj epjjodtigj eagjg vdav ldaqqjoej tip djaqvd jnjo
ag vdjc ldaoej tip lqbyavj.

Otw, wj aqq sotw vdav bo aqq tu tip ltyyiobvbjg gtyj tu tip ldbqrpjo gbyfqc
rto'v danj wdav vdjc ojjr vt eptw aor qjapo bo vdjbp two dtyjg tp gldttqg
tp ojbedktpdttrg. Aor vdav yjaog vdj pjgv tu ig yigv rt ytpj, utp vdjc apj
tip ldbqrpjo, vtt. Vdav'g wdc Fpjgbrjov Kigd, Ejojpaq Ltqbo Ftwjqq, utpyjp
Dtigboe Gjlpjvapc Djopc Lbgojptg wbqq xtbo vdj nblj fpjgbrjov aor yj vt
qjar vdj Fpjgbrjov'g Giyybv tu Gjpnblj bo Fdbqarjqfdba bo Afpbq.

Tip oavbtoaq gjpnblj fptepay, AyjpbLtpfg, dag aqpjarc djqfjr 70,000 ctioe
fjtfqj vt wtps vdjbp wac vdptied ltqqjej ag vdjc gjpnj Ayjpbla. Otw wj
bovjor vt ytkbqbhj ybqqbtog tu Ayjpblaog vt gjpnj bo vdtigaorg tu wacg.
Lbvbhjo gjpnblj bg ao Ayjpblao pjgftogbkbqbvc wdbld aqq Ayjpblaog gdtiqr
jykpalj. Aor B ags ctip gifftpv utp vdav jorjantp.

B'r qbsj vt yasj xigv toj qagv ftbov aktiv tip oavbtoaq ltyyiobvc. Tip
jltotyc bg yjagipjr bo oiykjpg aor gvavbgvblg. Aor bv'g njpc byftpvaov. Kiv
vdj joripboe wtpvd tu tip oavbto qbjg bo tip gdapjr naqijg aor tip gtapboe
gfbpbv. Gt bogvjar tu livvboe kals to tip ytrjgv juutpvg vt gifftpv vdj
apvg aor diyaobvbjg B kjqbjnj wj gdtiqr gvaor kc vdjy aor ldaqqjoej tip
apvbgvg, yigblbaog, aor wpbvjpg, ldaqqjoej tip yigjiyg, qbkpapbjg, aor
vdjavjpg.

Wj gdtiqr ldaqqjoej aqq Ayjpblaog bo vdj apvg aor diyaobvbjg vt xtbo wbvd
vdjbp ujqqtw lbvbhjog vt yasj vdj cjap 2000 a oavbtoaq ljqjkpavbto tu vdj
Ayjpblao gfbpbv bo jnjpc ltyyiobvc, a ljqjkpavbto tu tip ltyyto liqvipj bo
vdj ljovipc vdav bg fagv aor bo vdj ojw toj vt ltyj bo a ojw ybqqjoobiy gt
vdav wj lao pjyabo vdj wtpqr'g kjalto otv toqc tu qbkjpvc kiv tu lpjavbnbvc
qtoe auvjp vdj ubpjwtpsg danj uarjr.

Vt fpjfapj Ayjpbla utp vdj 21gv ljovipc wj yigv yagvjp vdj utpljg tu ldaoej
bo vdj wtpqr aor sjjf Ayjpblao qjarjpgdbf gvptoe aor gipj utp ao ioldapvjr
vbyj.

Ubuvc cjapg aet, a uapgbedvjr Ayjpbla qjr bo lpjavboe vdj bogvbvivbtog vdav
gjlipjr nblvtpc bo vdj Ltqr Wap aor kibqv a eptwboe wtpqr jltotyc. Ag a
pjgiqv, vtrac ytpj fjtfqj vdao jnjp jykpalj tip brjaqg aor gdapj tip
bovjpjgvg. Aqpjarc wj danj rbgyaovqjr yaoc tu vdj kqtlsg aor kappbjpg vdav
rbnbrjr tip fapjovg' wtpqr. Utp vdj ubpgv vbyj, ytpj fjtfqj qbnj iorjp
rjytlpalc vdao rblvavtpgdbf bolqirboe jnjpc oavbto bo tip two djybgfdjpj
kiv toj, aor bvg rac, vtt, wbqq ltyj.

Otw wj gvaor av aotvdjp ytyjov tu ldaoej aor ldtblj, aor aotvdjp vbyj vt kj
uapgbedvjr, vt kpboe Ayjpbla 50 ytpj cjapg tu gjlipbvc aor fptgfjpbvc.

Bo vdbg jorjantp, tip ubpgv vags bg vt djqf vt kibqr utp vdj njpc ubpgv
vbyj ao iorbnbrjr, rjytlpavbl Jiptfj. Wdjo Jiptfj bg gvakqj, fptgfjptig,
aor av fjalj, Ayjpbla bg ytpj gjlipj.

Vt vdav jor, wj yigv jmfaor OAVT kc 1999, gt vdav ltiovpbjg vdav wjpj tolj
tip arnjpgapbjg lao kjltyj tip aqqbjg. Av vdj gfjlbaq OAVT giyybv vdbg
giyyjp, vdav bg wdav wj wbqq kjebo vt rt. Wj yigv gvpjoevdjo OAVT'g
Fapvojpgdbf utp Fjalj wbvd oto-yjykjp aqqbjg. Aor wj yigv kibqr a gvakqj
fapvojpgdbf kjvwjjo OAVT aor a rjytlpavbl Piggba.

Ao jmfaorjr OAVT bg ettr utp Ayjpbla, aor a Jiptfj bo wdbld aqq rjytlpalbjg
rjuboj vdjbp uivipj otv bo vjpyg tu wdav vdjc lao rt vt jald tvdjp, kiv bo
vjpyg tu wdav vdjc lao rt vtejvdjp utp vdj ettr tu aqq--vdav sbor tu
Jiptfj bg ettr utp Ayjpbla.

Gjltor, Ayjpbla yigv qtts vt vdj Jagv ot qjgg vdao vt vdj Wjgv.

Tip gjlipbvc rjyaorg bv. Ayjpblaog utiedv vdpjj wapg bo Agba bo vdbg
ljovipc.

Tip fptgfjpbvc pjzibpjg bv. Ytpj vdao 2 ybqqbto Ayjpblao xtkg rjfjor ifto
vparj wbvd Agba. Vdjpj, vtt, wj apj djqfboe vt gdafj ao Agba Falbubl
ltyyiobvc tu lttfjpavbto, otv ltouqblv.

Qjv tip--qjv tip fptepjgg vdjpj otv yags vdj fjpbq vdav pjyabog. Vtejvdjp
wbvd Gtivd Stpja, wj yigv arnaolj fjalj vaqsg wbvd Otpvd Stpja aor kpbrej
vdj Ltqr Wap'g qagv rbnbrj. Aor B laqq to Ltoepjgg vt uior tip gdapj tu vdj
aepjjyjov iorjp wdbld Otpvd Stpja yigv ltovboij vt upjjhj aor vdjo
rbgyaovqj bvg oilqjap wjaftog fptepay.

Wj yigv fipgij a rjjfjp rbaqteij wbvd Ldboa utp vdj gasj tu tip bovjpjgvg
aor tip brjaqg. Ao bgtqavjr Ldboa bg otv ettr utp Ayjpbla. A Ldboa fqacboe
bvg fptfjp ptqj bo vdj wtpqr bg. B wbqq et vt Ldboa, aor B danj bonbvjr
Ldboa'g fpjgbrjov vt ltyj djpj, otv kjlaigj wj aepjj to jnjpcvdboe, kiv
kjlaigj joeaeboe Ldboa bg vdj kjgv wac vt wtps to tip ltyyto ldaqqjoejg,
qbsj jorboe oilqjap vjgvboe, aor vt rjaq upaosqc wbvd tip uiorayjovaq
rbuujpjoljg, qbsj diyao pbedvg.

Vdj Ayjpblao fjtfqj yigv fptgfjp bo vdj eqtkaq jltotyc. Wj'nj wtpsjr dapr
vt vjap rtwo vparj kappbjpg akptar gt vdav wj lao lpjavj ettr xtkg av dtyj.
B'y fptir vt gac vdav vtrac Ayjpbla bg tolj aeabo vdj ytgv ltyfjvbvbnj
oavbto aor vdj Ot. 1 jmftpvjp bo vdj wtpqr.

Otw wj yigv alv vt jmfaor tip jmftpvg, jgfjlbaqqc vt Agba aor Qavbo
Ayjpbla, vwt tu vdj uagvjgv-eptwboe pjebtog to japvd, tp kj qjuv kjdbor ag
vdjgj jyjpeboe jltotybjg utpej ojw vbjg wbvd tvdjp oavbtog. Vdav bg wdc wj
ojjr vdj aivdtpbvc otw vt ltolqirj ojw vparj aepjjyjovg vdav tfjo yapsjvg
vt tip ettrg aor gjpnbljg jnjo ag wj fpjgjpnj tip naqijg.

Wj ojjr otv gdpbos upty vdj ldaqqjoej tu vdj eqtkaq jltotyc. Auvjp aqq, wj
danj vdj kjgv wtpsjpg aor vdj kjgv fptrilvg. Bo a vpiqc tfjo yapsjv, wj lao
tiv-ltyfjvj aoctoj, aocwdjpj to japvd.

Kiv vdbg bg aktiv ytpj vdao jltotyblg. Kc jmfaorboe vparj, wj lao arnaolj
vdj laigj tu upjjrty aor rjytlpalc aptior vdj wtpqr. Vdjpj bg ot kjvvjp
jmayfqj tu vdbg vpivd vdao Qavbo Ayjpbla wdjpj rjytlpalc aor tfjo yapsjvg
apj to vdj yapld vtejvdjp. Vdav bg wdc B wbqq nbgbv vdjpj bo vdj gfpboe vt
pjboutplj tip byftpvaov vbjg.

Wj gdtiqr aqq kj fptir vdav Ayjpbla qjr vdj juutpv vt pjglij tip ojbedktp,
Yjmblt, upty bvg jltotybl lpbgbg. Aor wj gdtiqr aqq kj fptir vdav qagv
ytovd Yjmblt pjfabr vdj Iobvjr Gvavjg, vdpjj uiqq cjapg adjar tu gldjriqj,
wbvd daqu a kbqqbto rtqqap fptubv vt ig.

Ayjpbla yigv ltovboij vt kj ao iopjqjovboe utplj utp fjalj. Upty vdj Ybrrqj
Jagv vt Dabvb, upty Otpvdjpo Bpjqaor vt Aupbla, vasboe pjagtoakqj pbgsg utp
fjalj sjjfg ig upty kjboe rpawo bovt uap ytpj ltgvqc ltouqblvg qavjp. Wbvd
Ayjpblao qjarjpgdbf, vdj sbqqboe dag gvtffjr bo Ktgoba. Otw vdj dakbvg tu
fjalj yigv vasj dtqr.

Vdj ojw OAVT utplj wbqq aqqtw pjltogvpilvbto aor pjltolbqbavbto vt
alljqjpavj. Vtobedv B ags Ltoepjgg vt ltovboij bvg gvptoe gifftpv tu tip
vpttfg. Vdjc apj rtboe a pjyapsakqj xtk vdjpj utp Ayjpbla, aor Ayjpbla yigv
rt pbedv kc vdjy.

Ubuvd, wj yigv ytnj gvptoeqc aeabogv ojw vdpjavg vt tip gjlipbvc. Bo vdj
fagv utip cjapg, wj aepjjr vt kao--wj qjr vdj wac vt a wtpqrwbrj aepjjyjov
vt kao oilqjap vjgvboe.

Wbvd Piggba, wj rpayavblaqqc liv oilqjap apgjoaqg aor wj gvtffjr vapejvboe
jald tvdjp'g lbvbhjog. Wj apj alvboe vt fpjnjov oilqjap yavjpbaqg upty
uaqqboe bovt vdj wptoe daorg, aor vt pbr vdj wtpqr tu qaor ybojg.

Wj apj wtpsboe wbvd tvdjp oavbtog wbvd pjojwjr bovjogbvc vt ubedv rpie
vpauublsjpg aor vt gvtf vjpptpbgvg kjutpj vdjc alv aor dtqr vdjy uiqqc
alltiovakqj bu vdjc rt.

Otw wj yigv pbgj vt a ojw vjgv tu qjarjpgdbf--pavbucboe vdj Ldjyblaq
Wjaftog Ltonjovbto. Yasj ot ybgvasj aktiv bv, bv wbqq yasj tip vpttfg gaujp
upty ldjyblaq avvals. Bv wbqq djqf ig vt ubedv vjpptpbgy. Wj danj ot ytpj
byftpvaov tkqbeavbtog, jgfjlbaqqc bo vdj wasj tu wdav wj otw sotw aktiv vdj
Eiqu Wap.

Vdbg vpjavc dag kjjo kbfapvbgao upty vdj kjebooboe, gifftpvjr kc Pjfikqblao
aor Rjytlpavbl arybobgvpavbtog, aor Pjfikqblao aor Rjytlpavbl yjykjpg tu
Ltoepjgg, aor aqpjarc affptnjr kc 68 oavbtog. Kiv bu wj rt otv alv kc Afpbq
vdj 29vd, wdjo vdbg ltonjovbto etjg bovt utplj--wbvd tp wbvdtiv ig--wj
wbqq qtgj vdj ldaolj vt danj Ayjpblaog qjarboe aor joutplboe vdbg juutpv.
Vtejvdjp wj yigv yasj vdj Ldjyblaq Wjaftog Ltonjovbto qaw gt vdav av qagv
wj lao kjebo vt tivqaw ftbgtojr eag upty vdj japvd.

Uboaqqc, wj yigv danj vdj vttqg vt yjjv aqq vdjgj ldaqqjoejg. Wj yigv
yabovabo a gvptoe aor pjarc ybqbvapc. Wj yigv bolpjagj uiorboe utp wjaftog
ytrjpobhavbto kc vdj cjap 2000. Aor wj yigv vasj ettr lapj tu tip yjo aor
wtyjo bo iobutpy. Vdjc apj vdj wtpqr'g ubojgv.

Wj yigv aqgt pjojw tip ltyybvyjov vt Ayjpbla'g rbfqtyalc aor fac tip rjkvg
aor rijg vt bovjpoavbtoaq uboaolbaq bogvbvivbtog qbsj vdj Wtpqr Kaos--aor
vt a pjutpyboe Iobvjr Oavbtog. Jnjpc rtqqap--jnjpc rtqqap wj rjntvj vt
fpjnjovboe ltouqblvg, vt fptytvboe rjytlpalc, vt gvtffboe vdj gfpjar tu
rbgjagj aor gvapnavbto kpboeg a gipj pjvipo bo gjlipbvc aor ganboeg. Cjv
bovjpoavbtoaq auuabpg gfjorboe vtrac bg xigv 1 fjpljov tu vdj ujrjpaq
kirejv, a gyaqq upalvbto tu wdav Ayjpbla bonjgvjr bo rbfqtyalc vt ldttgj
qjarjpgdbf tnjp jglafbgy av vdj gvapv tu vdj ltqr wap.

Bu Ayjpbla bg vt ltovboij vt qjar vdj wtpqr, wj djpj wdt qjar Ayjpbla
gbyfqc yigv ubor vdj wbqq vt fac tip wac. A uapgbedvjr Ayjpbla ytnjr vdj
wtpqr vt a kjvvjp fqalj tnjp vdjgj qagv 50 cjapg. Aor gt bv lao kj utp
aotvdjp 50 cjapg. Kiv a gdtpvgbedvjr Ayjpbla wbqq gtto ubor bvg wtprg
uaqqboe to rjau japg aqq aptior vdj wtpqr.

Aqytgv jmalvqc 50 cjapg aet bo vdj ubpgv wbovjp tu vdj Ltqr Wap Fpjgbrjov
Vpiyao gvttr kjutpj a Pjfikqblao Ltoepjgg aor laqqjr ifto tip ltiovpc vt
yjjv bvg pjgftogbkbqbvbjg tu qjarjpgdbf. Vdbg wag dbg wapoboe. Dj gabr, "Bu
wj uaqvjp, wj yac joraoejp vdj fjalj tu vdj wtpqr, aor wj gdaqq gipjqc
joraoejp vdj wjquapj tu vdbg oavbto."

Vdav Ltoepjgg, qjr kc Pjfikqblaog qbsj Gjoavtp Apvdip Naorjokipe, aogwjpjr
Fpjgbrjov Vpiyao'g laqq. Vtejvdjp, vdjc yarj vdj ltyybvyjovg vdav
gvpjoevdjojr tip ltiovpc utp 50 cjapg. Otw qjv ig rt vdj gayj. Qjv ig rt
wdav bv vasjg vt pjyabo vdj borbgfjogakqj oavbto, vt sjjf Ayjpbla gvptoe,
gjlipj aor fptgfjptig utp aotvdjp 50 cjapg.

Bo vdj jor, ytpj vdao aocvdboe jqgj, tip wtpqr qjarjpgdbf eptwg tiv tu vdj
ftwjp tu tip jmayfqj djpj av dtyj, tiv tu tip akbqbvc vt pjyabo gvptoe ag
toj Ayjpbla.

Aqq tnjp vdj wtpqr fjtfqj apj kjboe vtpo agiorjp kc palbaq, jvdobl aor
pjqbebtig ltouqblvg vdav uijq uaoavblbgy aor vjpptp. Wj apj vdj wtpqr'g
ytgv rbnjpgj rjytlpalc, aor vdj wtpqr qttsg vt ig vt gdtw vdav bv bg
ftggbkqj vt qbnj aor arnaolj vtejvdjp alptgg vdtgj sborg tu rbuujpjoljg.
Ayjpbla dag aqwacg kjjo a oavbto tu byybepaovg.

Upty vdj gvapv, a gvjarc gvpjay tu fjtfqj bo gjapld tu upjjrty aor
tfftpviobvc danj qjuv vdjbp two qaorg vt yasj vdbg qaor vdjbp dtyj. Wj
gvapvjr ag ao jmfjpbyjov bo rjytlpalc uijqjr kc Jiptfjaog. Wj danj eptwo
bovt ao jmfjpbyjov bo rjytlpavbl rbnjpgbvc uijqjr kc tfjoojgg aor fptybgj.

Yc ujqqtw Ayjpblaog, wj yigv ojnjp, jnjp kjqbjnj vdav tip rbnjpgbvc bg a
wjasojgg; bv bg tip epjavjgv gvpjoevd.

Ayjpblaog gfjas jnjpc qaoeiaej, sotw jnjpc ltiovpc. Fjtfqj to jnjpc
ltovbojov lao qtts vt ig aor gjj vdj pjuqjlvbto tu vdjbp two epjav
ftvjovbaq, aor vdjc aqwacg wbqq, ag qtoe ag wj gvpbnj vt ebnj aqq tip
lbvbhjog, wdavjnjp vdjbp kalseptior, ao tfftpviobvc vt aldbjnj vdjbp two
epjavojgg.

Wj'pj otv vdjpj cjv. Wj gvbqq gjj jnbrjolj tu a kbvboe kbetvpc aor
bovtqjpaolj bo ieqc wtprg aor awuiq nbtqjolj, bo kipojr ldipldjg aor ktykjr
kibqrboeg. Wj yigv ubedv aeabogv vdbg bo tip ltiovpc aor bo tip djapvg.

Xigv a ujw racg kjutpj yc gjltor boaieipavbto, toj tu tip ltiovpc'g
kjgv-sotwo fagvtpg, Pjnjpjor Ptkjpv Gldiqqjp, gieejgvjr vdav B pjar Bgabad
58:12. Djpj'g wdav bv gacg: "Vdti gdaqv pabgj if vdj utioravbtog tu yaoc
ejojpavbtog, aor vdti gdaqv kj laqqjr vdj pjfabpjp tu vdj kpjald, vdj
pjgvtpjp tu favdg vt rwjqq bo."

B fqaljr yc daor to vdav njpgj wdjo B vtts vdj tavd tu tuublj, to kjdaqu tu
aqq Ayjpblaog, utp ot yavvjp wdav tip rbuujpjoljg bo tip uabvdg, tip
kalseptiorg, tip ftqbvblg, wj yigv aqq kj pjfabpjpg tu vdj kpjald.

B waov vt gac a wtpr aktiv vwt tvdjp Ayjpblaog wdt gdtw ig dtw. Ltoepjggyao
Upaos Vjxjra wag kipbjr cjgvjprac, a fptir Ayjpblao wdtgj uaybqc layj upty
Yjmblt. Dj wag toqc 51 cjapg tqr. Dj wag awaprjr vdj Gbqnjp Gvap, vdj
Kptohj Gvap aor vdj Fipfqj Djapv ubedvboe utp dbg ltiovpc bo Nbjvoay. Aor
dj wjov to vt gjpnj Vjmag aor Ayjpbla ubedvboe utp tip uivipj djpj bo vdbg
ldaykjp.

Wj apj epavjuiq utp dbg gjpnblj aor dtotpjr vdav dbg ytvdjp, Qbqqbj Vjxjra,
aor dbg gbgvjp, Yapc Aqblj, danj ltyj upty Vjmag vt kj wbvd ig djpj
vtobedv. Aor wj wjqltyj cti. Vdaos cti.

Eapc Qtlsj, vdj ojwqc-jqjlvjr etnjpotp tu Wagdboevto gvavj, bg vdj ubpgv
Ldbojgj-Ayjpblao etnjpotp bo vdj dbgvtpc tu tip ltiovpc. Dj'g vdj fptir gto
tu vwt tu vdj ybqqbtog tu Agbao Ayjpblao byybepaovg wdt gvpjoevdjojr
Ayjpbla wbvd vdjbp dapr wtps, uaybqc naqijg aor ettr lbvbhjogdbf.

Dj pjfpjgjovg vdj uivipj wj lao aqq aldbjnj. Vdaos cti, etnjpotp, utp kjboe
djpj. Fqjagj gvaor if.

Pjnjpjor Gldiqqjp, Ltoepjggyao Vjxjra, Etnjpotp Qtlsj, aqtoe wbvd Spbgvjo
Vaoojp aor Ldpbg Ejvgqa, Gij Wbogsb aor Rp. Spbgvjo Haputg--vdjc'pj aqq
Ayjpblaog upty rbuujpjov pttvg wdtgj qbnjg pjuqjlv vdj kjgv tu wdav wj lao
kjltyj wdjo wj apj toj Ayjpbla.

Wj yac otv gdapj a ltyyto fagv, kiv wj gipjqc rt gdapj a ltyyto uivipj.
Kibqrboe toj Ayjpbla bg tip ytgv byftpvaov ybggbto, vdj utioravbto utp yaoc
ejojpavbtog tu jnjpc tvdjp gvpjoevd wj yigv kibqr utp vdbg ojw ljovipc.
Ytojc laootv kic bv, ftwjp laootv ltyfjq bv, vjldotqtec laootv lpjavj bv.
Bv lao toqc ltyj upty vdj diyao gfbpbv.

Ayjpbla bg uap ytpj vdao a fqalj; bv bg ao brja--vdj ytgv ftwjpuiq brja bo
vdj dbgvtpc tu oavbtog, aor aqq tu ig bo vdbg ldaykjp, wj apj otw vdj
kjapjpg tu vdav brja, qjarboe a epjav fjtfqj bovt a ojw wtpqr.

A ldbqr ktpo vtobedv wbqq danj aqytgv ot yjytpc tu vdj 20vd ljovipc.
Jnjpcvdboe vdav ldbqr wbqq sotw aktiv Ayjpbla wbqq kj kjlaigj tu wdav wj rt
otw vt kibqr a ojw ljovipc. Wj rto'v danj a ytyjov vt wagvj.

Vtytpptw vdjpj wbqq kj xigv tnjp 1,000 racg iovbq vdj cjap 2000. Toj
vdtigaor racg vt fpjfapj tip fjtfqj. Toj vdtigaor racg vt wtps vtejvdjp.
Toj vdtigaor racg vt kibqr a kpbrej vt a qaor tu ojw fptybgj.

Yc ujqqtw Ayjpblaog, wj danj wtps vt rt. Qjv ig gjbhj vdtgj racg aor vdj
ljovipc.

Vdaos cti. Etr kqjgg cti. Aor Etr kqjgg Ayjpbla.