Px. Hyuefux, Px. Yxuhzdubq, pupguxh st qju 103xd Osbvxuhh, pm tuiisr
Epuxzoebh:

Z ep bsq hkxu rjeq hyuuoj zh zb qju QuiuYxspyQux qsbzvjq, gkq Z jsyu ru oeb
qeif egskq qju Hqequ st qju Kbzsb.

Z ehf msk qs guvzb gm xuoeiizbv qju pupsxm st qju vzebq rjs yxuhzdud saux
qjzh ojepgux rzqj hkoj tsxou ebd vxeou. Qzy S'Buzii izfud qs oeii jzphuit
"E Peb st qju Jskhu" ebd ju hkxuim reh qjeq. Gkq uaub psxu, ju reh e peb st
qju yusyiu, e gxzofiemux'h hsb rjs juiyud qs gkzid qju vxueq Epuxzoeb
pzddiu oiehh. Qzy S'Buzii buaux tsxvsq rjs ju reh, rjuxu ju oepu txsp, sx
rjs hubq jzp juxu. Qsbzvjq ju'h hpzizbv dsrb sb kh tsx qju tzxhq qzpu txsp
qju Isxd'h veiiuxm. Gkq zb jzh jsbsx, pem ru qss eihs xupupgux rjs ru exu,
rjuxu ru ospu txsp, ebd rjs hubq kh juxu.

Zt ru ds qjeq ru rzii xuqkxb saux ebd saux evezb qs qju yxzbozyiu qjeq zt
ru hzpyim vzau sxdzbexm yusyiu ulkei syysxqkbzqm, lkeizqm udkoeqzsb, ebd e
tezx hjsq eq qju Epuxzoeb dxuep, qjum rzii ds ucqxesxdzbexm qjzbvh.

Ru veqjux qsbzvjq zb e rsxid st ojebvuh hs yxstskbd ebd xeyzd qjeq eii
beqzsbh exu quhqud. Skx Epuxzoeb juxzqevu jeh eiremh guub qs pehqux hkoj
ojebvu, qs khu zq qs ucyebd syysxqkbzqm eq jspu, ebd skx iueduxhjzy egxsed.
Gkq tsx qss isbv ebd zb qss pebm remh, qjeq juxzqevu reh egebdsbud, ebd skx
oskbqxm dxztqud.

Tsx 30 muexh tepzim iztu zb Epuxzoe jeh guub gxuefzbv dsrb. Tsx 20 muexh
qju revuh st rsxfzbv yusyiu jeau guub hqevbebq sx duoizbzbv. Tsx qju 12
muexh st qxzofiu dsrb uosbspzoh ru gkziq e teihu yxshyuxzqm sb e jsiisr
gehu eh skx beqzsbei dugq lkedxkyiud. Txsp 1989 qs 1992 ru ucyuxzuboud qju
hisruhq vxsrqj zb e jeit oubqkxm. Tsx qss pebm tepzizuh, uaub rjub gsqj
yexubqh ruxu rsxfzbv, qju Epuxzoeb dxuep jeh guub hizyyzbv erem.

Zb 1992 qju Epuxzoeb yusyiu dupebdud qjeq ru ojebvu. Z muex evs Z ehfud eii
st msk qs wszb pu zb eoouyqzbv xuhysbhzgzizqm tsx qju tkqkxu st skx
oskbqxm.

Ruii, ru dzd. Ru xuyieoud dxztq ebd duedisof rzqj xuburei ebd xutsxp. Ebd Z
rebq qs qjebf uauxm sbu st msk juxu rjs juexd qju Epuxzoeb yusyiu, rjs
gxsfu vxzdisof, rjs veau qjup qju pshq hkoouhhtki queprsxf guqruub e
yxuhzdubq ebd e Osbvxuhh zb 30 muexh.

Eoospyizhjpubqh

Qjzh Osbvxuhh yxsdkoud e gkdvuq qjeq okq qju dutzozq gm jeit e qxziizsb
dsiiexh, okq hyubdzbv ebd xezhud zbospu qecuh sb sbim qju rueiqjzuhq
Epuxzoebh. Qjzh Osbvxuhh yxsdkoud qec xuizut tsx pziizsbh st isr-zbospu
rsxfuxh qs xurexd rsxf saux ruitexu. Zq yxsdkoud BETQE. Zq yxsdkoud qju
Gxedm gzii, bsr qju Gxedm ier.

Ebd qjebf msk, Wzp Gxedm, tsx guzbv juxu, ebd Vsd giuhh msk, Hexej. Qjzh
Osbvxuhh yxsdkoud qec okqh qs xudkou qju qecuh st bzbu skq st 10 hpeii
gkhzbuhhuh rjs khu qju psbum qs zbauhq psxu ebd oxuequ psxu wsgh. Zq
yxsdkoud psxu xuhuexoj ebd qxueqpubq tsx EZDH, psxu ojzidjssd
zppkbzneqzsbh, psxu hkyysxq tsx rspub'h jueiqj xuhuexoj, psxu ettsxdegiu
osiiuvu isebh tsx qju pzddiu oiehh, e bur beqzsbei huxazou yxsvxep tsx
qjshu rjs rebq qs vzau hspuqjzbv geof qs qjuzx oskbqxm ebd qjuzx
osppkbzqzuh tsx jzvjux udkoeqzsb, e dxepeqzo zboxuehu zb jzvj-quoj
zbauhqpubqh qs psau kh txsp e dutubhu qs e dspuhqzo jzvj-quoj uosbspm. Qjzh
Osbvxuhh yxsdkoud e bur ier--qju psqsx asqux gzii--qs juiy pziizsbh st
yusyiu xuvzhqux qs asqu. Zq yxsdkoud tepzim ebd pudzoei iueau--eii yehhud,
eii hzvbud zbqs ier, rzqj bsq sbu hzbviu auqs.

Qjuhu eoospyizhjpubqh ruxu eii osppzqpubqh Z pedu rjub Z hskvjq qjzh
sttzou, ebd zb tezxbuhh, qjum eii jed qs gu yehhud gm msk zb qjzh Osbvxuhh.
Gkq Z ep yuxhkedud qjeq qju xuei oxudzq guisbvh qs qju yusyiu rjs hubq kh
juxu, rjs yem skx heiexzuh, rjs jsid skx tuuq qs qju tzxu. Gkq rjeq ru ds
juxu zh xueiim guvzbbzbv qs ojebvu izauh. Iuq pu wkhq vzau msk sbu
ucepyiu.

Tepzim Ebd Pudzoei Iueau

Z rzii buaux tsxvuq rjeq qju tepzim ebd pudzoei iueau ier puebq qs wkhq sbu
teqjux Z puq uexim sbu Hkbdem psxbzbv zb qju Rjzqu Jskhu. Zq reh kbkhkei qs
huu e tepzim qjuxu qskxzbv uexim Hkbdem psxbzbv, gkq ju jed jzh rztu ebd
jzh qjxuu ojzidxub qjuxu, sbu st qjup zb e rjuuiojezx. Ebd Z oepu ky, ebd
etqux ru jed skx yzoqkxu qefub ebd jed e izqqiu azhzq, Z reh reifzbv stt,
ebd qjeq peb vxeggud pu gm qju exp ebd ju hezd, "Px. Yxuhzdubq, iuq pu quii
msk hspuqjzbv. Pm izqqiu vzxi juxu zh duhyuxequim zii. Hju'h yxsgegim bsq
vszbv qs pefu zq. Gkq guoekhu st qju tepzim iueau ier, Z reh egiu qs qefu
qzpu stt qs hyubd rzqj jux, qju pshq zpysxqebq Z uaux hyubq zb pm iztu,
rzqjskq ishzbv pm wsg ebd jkxqzbv qju xuhq st pm tepzim. Zq puebh psxu qs
pu qjeb Z rzii uaux gu egiu qs hem. Dsb'q msk yusyiu ky juxu uaux qjzbf
rjeq msk ds dsuhb'q pefu e dzttuxubou. Zq dsuh."

Qjskvj ru exu pefzbv e dzttuxubou, skx rsxf jeh wkhq guvkb. Pebm Epuxzoebh
hqzii jeaub'q tuiq qju zpyeoq st rjeq ru'au dsbu. Qju xuosauxm hqzii jehb'q
qskojud uauxm osppkbzqm sx oxuequd ubskvj wsgh. Zbospuh exu hqzii hqevbebq.
Qjuxu'h hqzii qss pkoj azsiubou ebd bsq ubskvj jsyu zb qss pebm yieouh.

Egxsed, qju mskbv dupsoxeozuh ru exu hqxsbvim hkyysxqzbv hqzii teou auxm
dzttzokiq qzpuh ebd issf qs kh tsx iueduxhjzy.

Ebd hs qsbzvjq, iuq kh xuhsiau qs osbqzbku qju wskxbum st xuburei, qs
oxuequ psxu ebd guqqux wsgh, qs vkexebquu jueiqj huokxzqm tsx eii, qs
xurexd ruitexu--rsxf saux ruitexu, qs yxspsqu dupsoxeom egxsed ebd qs
guvzb qs xuoiezp skx hqxuuqh txsp azsiubq oxzpu ebd dxkvh ebd vebvh qs
xubur skx srb Epuxzoeb osppkbzqm.

Dutzozq Xudkoqzsb

Iehq muex, ru guveb qs ykq skx jskhu zb sxdux gm qeofizbv qju gkdvuq
dutzozq qjeq reh dxzazbv kh qsrexd gebfxkyqom. Ru okq $255 gziizsb zb
hyubdzbv, zboikdzbv ubqzqiupubqh, zb saux 340 huyexequ gkdvuq zquph. Ru
txsnu dspuhqzo hyubdzbv ebd khud jsbuhq gkdvuq bkpguxh.

Iud gm qju azou yxuhzdubq, ru'au iekbojud e oepyezvb qs xuzbaubq
vsauxbpubq. Ru'au okq hqett, okq yuxfh, uaub qxzppud qju tiuuq st tuduxei
izpskhzbuh. Etqux muexh st iueduxh rjshu xjuqsxzo eqqeofud gkxuekoxeom gkq
rjshu eoqzsbh ucyebdud zq, ru rzii eoqkeiim xudkou zq gm 252,000 yusyiu
saux qju bucq tzau muexh. Gm qju qzpu ru jeau tzbzhjud, qju tuduxei
gkxuekoxeom rzii gu eq zqh isruhq yszbq zb 30 muexh.

Guoekhu qju dutzozq reh hs iexvu ebd guoekhu qjum gubutzqud txsp qec okqh
zb qju 1980h, ru dzd ehf qju rueiqjzuhq Epuxzoebh qs yem psxu qs xudkou qju
dutzozq. Hs sb Eyxzi qju 15qj, qju Epuxzoeb yusyiu rzii dzhosaux qju qxkqj
egskq rjeq ru dzd iehq muex sb qecuh. Sbim qju qsy sbu--qju qsy 1.2
yuxoubq st Epuxzoebh, eh Z hezd eii eisbv, rzii teou jzvjux zbospu qec
xequh--iuq pu xuyueq, sbim qju rueiqjzuhq 1.2 yuxoubq st Epuxzoebh rzii
teou jzvjux zbospu qec xequh ebd bs sbu uihu rzii, ebd qjeq zh qju qxkqj.
St oskxhu, qjuxu ruxu, eh qjuxu eiremh exu zb ysizqzoh, bemhemuxh rjs hezd
qjzh yieb rskidb'q rsxf, gkq qjum ruxu rxsbv. Rjub Z guoepu yxuhzdubq, qju
ucyuxqh yxudzoqud qjeq bucq muex'h dutzozq rskid gu $300 gziizsb, gkq
guoekhu ru eoqud, qjshu hepu yusyiu bsr hem qju dutzozq'h vszbv qs gu kbdux
$180 gziizsb, 40 yuxoubq isrux qjeb reh yxuazskhim yxudzoqud.

Qju Uosbspm

Skx uosbspzo yxsvxep jeh juiyud qs yxsdkou qju isruhq osxu zbtieqzsb xequ
ebd qju isruhq zbquxuhq xequh zb 20 muexh, ebd guoekhu qjshu zbquxuhq xequh
exu dsrb, gkhzbuhh zbauhqpubq ebd ulkzypubq zh vxsrzbv eq huaub qzpuh qju
xequ st qju yxuazskh tskx muexh. Ekqs heiuh exu rem ky, jspu heiuh eq e
xuosxd jzvj. Pziizsbh st Epuxzoebh jeau xutzbeboud qjuzx jspuh ebd skx
uosbspm jeh yxsdkoud 1.6 pziizsb yxzaequ-huoqsx wsgh zb 1993, psxu qjeb
ruxu oxuequd zb qju yxuazskh tskx muexh ospgzbud.

Qju yusyiu rjs hkyysxqud qjzh uosbspzo yieb hjskid gu yxskd st zqh uexim
xuhkiqh--yxskd. Gkq uauxmsbu zb qjzh ojepgux hjskid fbsr ebd eofbsriudvu
qjeq qjuxu zh psxu qs ds. Bucq psbqj Z rzii hubd msk sbu st qju qskvjuhq
gkdvuqh uaux yxuhubqud qs Osbvxuhh. Zq rzii okq hyubdzbv zb psxu qjeb 300
yxsvxeph, uizpzbequ 100 dspuhqzo yxsvxeph, ebd xutsxph qju rem zb rjzoj
vsauxbpubqh gkm vssdh ebd huxazouh.

Qjzh muex ru pkhq evezb pefu qju jexd ojszouh qs izau rzqjzb qju jexd
hyubdzbv ouzizbvh ru jeau huq. Ru pkhq ds zq. Ru jeau yxsaud ru oeb gxzbv
qju dutzozq dsrb rzqjskq ojsfzbv stt xuosauxm, rzqjskq ykbzhjzbv hubzsxh sx
qju pzddiu oiehh, ebd rzqjskq ykqqzbv skx beqzsbei huokxzqm eq xzhf. Zt msk
rzii hqzof rzqj qjzh yieb, ru rzii yshq qjxuu osbhuokqzau muexh st
duoizbzbv dutzozqh tsx qju tzxhq qzpu hzbou Jexxm Qxkpeb izaud zb qju Rjzqu
Jskhu. Ebd sbou evezb, qju gkof hqsyh juxu.

Qxedu

Skx uosbspzo yieb eihs gsihquxh skx hqxubvqj ebd skx oxudzgzizqm exskbd qju
rsxid. Sbou ru xudkoud qju dutzozq ebd ykq qju hquui geof zbqs skx
ospyuqzqzau udvu, qju rsxid uojsud rzqj qju hskbd st teiizbv qxedu
gexxzuxh. Zb sbu muex, rzqj BETQE, rzqj VEQQ, rzqj skx uttsxqh zb Ehze ebd
qju beqzsbei ucysxq hqxequvm, ru dzd psxu qs syub rsxid pexfuqh qs Epuxzoeb
yxsdkoqh qjeb eq ebm qzpu zb qju iehq qrs vubuxeqzsbh. Qjeq puebh psxu wsgh
ebd xzhzbv izazbv hqebdexdh tsx qju Epuxzoeb yusyiu, isr dutzozqh, isr
zbtieqzsb, isr zbquxuhq xequh, isr qxedu gexxzuxh ebd jzvj zbauhqpubqh.
Qjuhu exu qju gkzidzbv gisofh st skx xuosauxm. Gkq zt ru rebq qs qefu tkii
edaebqevu st qju syysxqkbzqzuh gutsxu kh zb qju visgei uosbspm, msk eii
fbsr ru pkhq ds psxu.

Eh ru xudkou dutubhu hyubdzbv, Z ehf Osbvxuhh qs zbauhq psxu zb qju
quojbsisvzuh st qspsxxsr. Dutubhu osbauxhzsb rzii fuuy kh hqxsbv pzizqexzim
ebd oxuequ wsgh tsx skx yusyiu juxu eq jspu.

Eh ru yxsquoq skx ubazxsbpubq, ru pkhq zbauhq zb qju ubazxsbpubqei
quojbsisvzuh st qju tkqkxu rjzoj rzii oxuequ wsgh. Qjzh muex ru rzii tzvjq
tsx e xuazqeiznud Oiueb Requx Eoq ebd e Hetu Dxzbfzbv Requx Eoq ebd e
xutsxpud Hkyuxtkbd yxsvxep.

Ebd qju azou yxuhzdubq zh xzvjq; ru pkhq eihs rsxf rzqj qju yxzaequ huoqsx
qs osbbuoq uauxm oiehhxssp, uauxm oizbzo, uauxm izgxexm, uauxm jshyzqei zb
Epuxzoe zbqs e beqzsbei zbtsxpeqzsb hkyuxjzvjrem gm qju muex 2000. Qjzbf st
zq. Zbhqebq eoouhh qs zbtsxpeqzsb rzii zboxuehu yxsdkoqzazqm. Zq rzii juiy
qs udkoequ skx ojzidxub. Zq rzii yxsazdu guqqux pudzoei oexu. Zq rzii
oxuequ wsgh. Ebd Z oeii sb qju Osbvxuhh qs yehh iuvzhieqzsb qs uhqegizhj
qjeq zbtsxpeqzsb hkyuxjzvjrem qjzh muex.

Eh ru ucyebd syysxqkbzqm ebd oxuequ wsgh, bs sbu oeb gu iutq skq. Ru pkhq
osbqzbku qs ubtsxou tezx iubdzbv ebd tezx jskhzbv ebd eii ozazi xzvjqh
ierh, guoekhu Epuxzoe rzii buaux gu ospyiuqu zb zqh xuburei kbqzi uauxmsbu
hjexuh zb zqh gskbqm. Gkq ru eii fbsr, qss, ru oeb ds eii qjuhu qjzbvh--
ykq skx uosbspzo jskhu zb sxdux, ucyebd rsxid qxedu, qexvuq qju wsgh st qju
tkqkxu, vkexebquu ulkei syysxqkbzqm.

Gkq zt ru'xu jsbuhq, ru'ii eii edpzq qjeq qjzh hqxequvm hqzii oebbsq rsxf
kbiuhh ru eihs vzau skx yusyiu qju udkoeqzsb, qxezbzbv ebd hfziih qjum buud
qs huznu qju syysxqkbzqzuh st qspsxxsr. Ru pkhq huq qskvj, rsxid-oiehh
eoedupzo ebd sookyeqzsbei hqebdexdh tsx eii skx ojzidxub ebd vzau skx
queojuxh ebd hqkdubqh qju qssih qjum buud qs puuq qjup.

Udkoeqzsb

Skx Vseih 2000 yxsyshei rzii upysrux zbdzazdkei hojssi dzhqxzoqh qs
ucyuxzpubq rzqj zdueh izfu ojexquxzbv qjuzx hojssih qs gu xkb gm yxzaequ
osxysxeqzsbh sx jeazbv psxu ykgizo hojssi ojszou, qs ds rjequaux qjum rzhj
qs ds eh isbv eh ru puehkxu uauxm hojssi gm sbu jzvj hqebdexd: Exu skx
ojzidxub iuexbzbv rjeq qjum buud qs fbsr qs ospyuqu ebd rzb zb qju visgei
uosbspm?

Vseih 2000 izbfh rsxid-oiehh hqebdexdh qs vxehhxssqh xutsxph ebd Z jsyu
Osbvxuhh rzii yehh zq rzqjskq duiem. Skx hojssi qs rsxf zbzqzeqzau rzii tsx
qju tzxhq qzpu izbf hojssi qs qju rsxid st rsxf, yxsazdzbv eq iuehq sbu
muex st eyyxubqzouhjzy gumsbd jzvj hojssi. Etqux eii, pshq st qju yusyiu
ru'xu oskbqzbv sb qs gkzid skx uosbspzo tkqkxu rsb'q vxedkequ txsp osiiuvu.
Zq'h qzpu qs hqsy zvbsxzbv qjup ebd hqexq upysruxzbv qjup. Ru pkhq
izquxeiim qxebhtsxp skx skqdequd kbupyismpubq hmhqup zbqs e bur
xuupyismpubq hmhqup. Qju sid kbupyismpubq hmhqup wkhq hsxq st fuyq msk
vszbv rjziu msk rezqud tsx mskx sid wsg qs ospu geof. Ru'au vsq qs jeau e
bur hmhqup qs psau yusyiu zbqs bur ebd guqqux wsgh guoekhu pshq st qjshu
sid wsgh wkhq dsb'q ospu geof. Ebd ru fbsr qjeq qju sbim rem qs jeau xuei
wsg huokxzqm zb qju tkqkxu, qs vuq e vssd wsg rzqj e vxsrzbv zbospu, zh qs
jeau xuei hfziih ebd qju egzizqm qs iuexb bur sbuh. Hs ru'au vsq qs
hqxuepizbu qsdem'h yeqojrsxf st qxezbzbv yxsvxeph ebd pefu qjup e hskxou st
bur hfzii tsx skx yusyiu rjs ishu qjuzx wsgh. Xuupyismpubq, bsq
kbupyismpubq, pkhq guospu qju oubquxyzuou st skx uosbspzo xuburei. Z kxvu
msk qs yehh zq zb qjzh huhhzsb st Osbvxuhh.

Ruitexu

Ebd wkhq eh ru pkhq qxebhtsxp skx kbupyismpubq hmhqup, hs pkhq ru eihs
xuasikqzsbznu skx ruitexu hmhqup. Zq dsuhb'q rsxf; zq dutzuh skx aeikuh eh
e beqzsb. Zt ru aeiku rsxf, ru oeb'q wkhqztm e hmhqup qjeq pefuh ruitexu
psxu eqqxeoqzau qjeb rsxf zt yusyiu exu rsxxzud egskq ishzbv qjuzx jueiqj
oexu.

Zt ru aeiku xuhysbhzgzizqm, ru oeb'q zvbsxu qju $34 gziizsb zb ojzid
hkyysxq eghubq yexubqh skq qs gu yemzbv qs pziizsbh st yexubqh rjs exu
qefzbv oexu st qjuzx ojzidxub--. Zt ru aeiku hqxsbv tepzizuh, ru oeb'q
yuxyuqkequ e hmhqup qjeq eoqkeiim yubeiznuh qjshu rjs hqem qsvuqjux. Oeb
msk guizuau qjeq e ojzid rjs jeh e ojzid vuqh psxu psbum txsp qju
vsauxbpubq tsx iueazbv jspu qjeb tsx hqemzbv jspu rzqj e yexubq sx e
vxebdyexubq? Qjeq'h bsq wkhq ged ysizom, zq'h rxsbv ebd ru skvjq qs ojebvu
zq.

Z rsxfud sb qjzh yxsgiup tsx muexh gutsxu Z guoepu yxuhzdubq, rzqj sqjux
vsauxbsxh ebd rzqj pupguxh st Osbvxuhh zb gsqj yexqzuh ebd rzqj qju
yxuazskh edpzbzhqxeqzsb st ebsqjux yexqm. Z rsxfud sb zq rzqj yusyiu rjs
ruxu sb ruitexu, isqh st qjup. Ebd Z rebq qs hem hspuqjzbv qs uauxmgsdm
juxu rjs oexuh egskq qjzh zhhku. Qju yusyiu rjs pshq rebq qs ojebvu qjzh
hmhqup exu qju yusyiu rjs exu duyubdubq sb zq. Qjum rebq qs vuq stt
ruitexu; qjum rebq qs vs geof qs rsxf; qjum rebq qs ds xzvjq gm qjuzx
fzdh.

Z sbou jed e juexzbv rjub Z reh e vsauxbsx ebd Z gxskvjq zb yusyiu sb
ruitexu txsp eii saux Epuxzoe rjs jed tskbd qjuzx rem qs rsxf ebd e rspeb
txsp pm hqequ rjs quhqztzud reh ehfud qjzh lkuhqzsb. Rjeq'h qju guhq qjzbv
egskq guzbv stt ruitexu ebd zb e wsg. Ebd rzqjskq gizbfzbv eb umu, hju
issfud eq 40 vsauxbsxh ebd hju hezd, rjub pm gsm vsuh qs hojssi ebd qjum
hem "Rjeq dsuh mskx psqjux ds tsx e izazbv?" ju oeb vzau eb ebhrux. Qjuhu
yusyiu rebq e guqqux hmhqup ebd ru skvjq qs vzau zq qs qjup.

Iehq muex, ru guveb qjzh. Ru veau qju hqequh psxu ysrux qs zbbsaequ guoekhu
ru fbsr qjeq e isq st vxueq zdueh ospu txsp skqhzdu Rehjzbvqsb ebd pebm
hqequh exu eixuedm khzbv zq. Qjub qjzh Osbvxuhh qssf e dxepeqzo hquy.
Zbhqued st qeczbv yusyiu rzqj psduhq zbospuh zbqs ysauxqm, ru juiyud qjup
qs rsxf qjuzx rem skq st ysauxqm gm dxepeqzoeiim zboxuehzbv qju uexbud
zbospu qec oxudzq. Zq rzii iztq 15 pziizsb rsxfzbv tepzizuh skq st ysauxqm,
xurexdzbv rsxf saux ruitexu, pefzbv zq yshhzgiu tsx yusyiu qs gu hkoouhhtki
rsxfuxh ebd hkoouhhtki yexubqh. Bsr qjeq'h xuei ruitexu xutsxp.

Gkq qjuxu zh psxu qs gu dsbu. Qjzh hyxzbv Z rzii hubd msk e ospyxujubhzau
ruitexu xutsxp gzii qjeq gkzidh sb qju Tepzim Hkyysxq Eoq st 1988 ebd
xuhqsxuh qju gehzo aeikuh st rsxf ebd xuhysbhzgzizqm. Ru rzii hem qs
quubevuxh zt msk jeau e ojzid skq st rudisof, ru'ii bs isbvux vzau msk e
ojuof qs huq ky e huyexequ jskhujsid, ru rebq tepzizuh qs hqem qsvuqjux;
hem qs eghubq yexubqh rjs exub'q yemzbv qjuzx ojzid hkyysxq zt msk'xu bsq
yxsazdzbv tsx mskx ojzidxub ru'ii vexbzhj mskx revuh, hkhyubd mskx izoubhu,
qxeof msk eoxshh hqequ izbuh, ebd zt buouhhexm pefu hspu st msk rsxf stt
rjeq msk sru.

Yusyiu rjs gxzbv ojzidxub zbqs qjzh rsxid oebbsq ebd pkhq bsq reif erem
txsp qjup.

Gkq qs eii qjshu rjs duyubd sb ruitexu, ru hjskid sttux kiqzpequim e hzpyiu
ospyeoq. Ru rzii yxsazdu qju hkyysxq, qju wsg qxezbzbv, qju ojzid oexu msk
buud tsx ky qs qrs muexh, gkq etqux qjeq ebmsbu rjs oeb rsxf, pkhq, zb qju
yxzaequ huoqsx rjuxuaux yshhzgiu, zb osppkbzqm huxazou zt buouhhexm. Qjeq'h
qju sbim rem ru'ii uaux pefu ruitexu rjeq zq skvjq qs gu, e huosbd ojebou,
bsq e rem st iztu.

Z fbsr zq rzii gu dzttzokiq qs qeofiu ruitexu xutsxp zb 1994 eq qju hepu
qzpu ru qeofiu jueiqj oexu. Gkq iuq pu yszbq skq, Z qjzbf zq zh zbuazqegiu
ebd zpyuxeqzau. Zq zh uhqzpequd qjeq sbu pziizsb yusyiu exu sb ruitexu
qsdem guoekhu zq'h qju sbim rem qjum oeb vuq jueiqj oexu osauxevu tsx qjuzx
ojzidxub. Qjshu rjs ojsshu qs iueau ruitexu tsx wsgh rzqjskq jueiqj
gubutzqh, ebd pebm ubqxm iuaui wsgh dsb'q jeau jueiqj gubutzqh, tzbd
qjuphuiauh zb qju zboxudzgiu yshzqzsb st yemzbv qecuh qjeq juiy qs yem tsx
jueiqj oexu osauxevu tsx qjshu rjs pedu qju sqjux ojszou, qs hqem sb
ruitexu. Bs rsbdux yusyiu iueau rsxf ebd vs geof qs ruitexu, qs vuq jueiqj
oexu osauxevu. Ru'au vsq qs hsiau qju jueiqj oexu yxsgiup qs jeau xuei
ruitexu xutsxp.

Jueiqj Oexu Xutsxp

Hs qjzh muex ru rzii pefu jzhqsxm gm xutsxpzbv qju jueiqj oexu hmhqup. Ebd
Z rskid hem qs msk, eii st msk pm tuiisr ykgizo huxaebqh, qjzh zh ebsqjux
zhhku rjuxu qju yusyiu exu rem ejued st qju ysizqzozebh.

Qjeq pem bsq gu ysykiex rzqj uzqjux yexqm, gkq zq jeyyubh qs gu qju qxkqj.

Msk fbsr, qju tzxhq iedm jeh xuouzaud bsr eipshq e pziizsb iuqquxh txsp
yusyiu eii eoxshh Epuxzoe ebd txsp eii reifh st iztu. Z'd izfu qs hjexu
wkhq sbu st qjup rzqj msk. Xzojexd Ebduxhsb st Xubs, Buaede, ishq jzh wsg
ebd, rzqj zq, jzh jueiqj zbhkxebou. Qrs ruufh iequx, jzh rztu, Wkdm,
hkttuxud e ouxugxei ebukxmhp. Ju xkhjud jux qs qju jshyzqei, rjuxu hju
hqemud zb zbqubhzau oexu tsx 21 demh. Qju Ebduxhsb'h gziih ruxu saux
$120,000. Eiqjskvj Wkdm xuosauxud ebd Xzojexd rubq geof qs rsxf eq $8 eb
jskx, qju gziih ruxu qss pkoj tsx qjup ebd qjum ruxu izquxeiim tsxoud zbqs
gebfxkyqom.

"Pxh. Oizbqsb," ju rxsqu qs Jziiexm, "bs sbu zb qju Kbzqud Hqequh st
Epuxzoe hjskid jeau qs ishu uauxmqjzbv qjum'au rsxfud tsx eii qjuzx izauh
guoekhu qjum ruxu kbtsxqkbequ ubskvj qs guospu zii." Zq reh qs juiy qju
Xzojexd ebd Wkdm Ebduxhsbh st Epuxzoe qjeq qju tzxhq iedm ebd hs pebm
sqjuxh jeau rsxfud hs jexd ebd hs isbv sb qjzh jueiqj oexu xutsxp zhhku. Ru
sru qjup skx qjebfh ebd skx eoqzsb.

Z fbsr qjuxu exu yusyiu juxu rjs hem qjuxu'h bs jueiqj oexu oxzhzh. Quii zq
qs Xzojexd ebd Wkdm Ebduxhsb. Quii zq qs qju 58 pziizsb Epuxzoebh rjs jeau
bs osauxevu eq eii tsx hspu qzpu ueoj muex. Quii zq qs qju 81 pziizsb
Epuxzoebh rzqj qjshu yxuuczhqzbv osbdzqzsbh; qjshu tsifh exu yemzbv psxu sx
qjum oeb'q vuq zbhkxebou eq eii sx qjum oeb'q uaux ojebvu qjuzx wsgh
guoekhu qjum sx hspusbu zb qjuzx tepzim jeh sbu st qjshu yxuuczhqzbv
osbdzqzsbh. Quii zq qs qju hpeii gkhzbuhhuh gkxdubud gm hfmxsofuqzbv oshqh
st zbhkxebou. Pshq hpeii gkhzbuhhuh osaux qjuzx upyismuxh, ebd qjum yem sb
eauxevu 35 yuxoubq psxu zb yxupzkph qjeb gzv gkhzbuhhuh sx vsauxbpubq. Sx
quii zq qs qju 76 yuxoubq st zbhkxud Epuxzoebh, qjxuu skq st tskx rjshu
ysizozuh jeau iztuqzpu izpzqh, ebd qjeq puebh qjum oeb tzbd qjuphuiauh
rzqjskq ebm osauxevu eq eii wkhq rjub qjum buud zq qju pshq.

Hs, zt ebm st msk guizuau qjuxu'h bs oxzhzh, msk quii zq qs qjshu yusyiu,
guoekhu Z oeb'q.

Qjuxu exu hspu yusyiu rjs izquxeiim ds bsq kbduxhqebd qju zpyeoq st qjzh
yxsgiup sb yusyiu'h izauh, gkq eii msk jeau qs ds zh vs skq ebd izhqub qs
qjup. Wkhq vs qeif qs qjup ebmrjuxu, zb ebm osbvxuhhzsbei dzhqxzoq zb qjzh
oskbqxm. Qjum'xu Xuykgizoebh ebd Dupsoxeqh ebd zbduyubdubqh. Zq dsuhb'q
jeau e izof qs ds rzqj yexqm. Qjum qjzbf ru dsb'q vuq zq, ebd zq'h qzpu ru
hjsr qjeq ru ds vuq zq.

Txsp qju dem ru guveb, skx jueiqj oexu zbzqzeqzau jeh guub duhzvbud qs
hqxubvqjub rjeq zh vssd egskq skx jueiqj oexu hmhqup--qju rsxid'h guhq
jueiqj oexu yxstuhhzsbeih, okqqzbv udvu xuhuexoj, ebd rsbduxtki xuhuexoj
zbhqzqkqzsbh, Pudzoexu tsx sidux Epuxzoebh. Bsbu st qjzh--bsbu st zq
hjskid gu ykq eq xzhf. Gkq ru'xu yemzbv psxu ebd psxu psbum tsx iuhh ebd
iuhh oexu. Uauxm muex, turux ebd turux Epuxzoebh uaub vuq qs ojsshu qjuzx
dsoqsxh. Uauxm muex, dsoqsxh ebd bkxhuh hyubd psxu qzpu sb yeyuxrsxf ebd
iuhh qzpu rzqj yeqzubqh guoekhu st qju eghsikqu gkxuekoxeqzo bzvjqpexu qju
yxuhubq hmhqup jeh guospu.

Qjzh hmhqup zh xzddiud rzqj zbuttzozubom, rzqj egkhu, rzqj txekd, ebd
uauxmgsdm fbsrh zq. Zb qsdem'h jueiqj oexu hmhqup, zbhkxebou ospyebzuh oeii
qju hjsqh. Qjum yzof rjsp qjum osaux ebd jsr qjum osaux qjup. Qjum oeb okq
stt mskx gubutzqh rjub msk buud mskx osauxevu qju pshq. Qjum exu zb
ojexvu.

Rjeq dsuh zq pueb? Zq puebh uauxm bzvjq pziizsbh st ruii-zbhkxud Epuxzoebh
vs qs gud wkhq eb ziibuhh, eb eoozdubq, sx e yzbf hizy erem txsp jeazbv bs
osauxevu sx tzbebozei xkzb. Zq puebh uauxm psxbzbv pziizsbh st Epuxzoebh vs
qs rsxf rzqjskq ebm jueiqj zbhkxebou eq eii--hspuqjzbv qju rsxfuxh zb bs
sqjux edaeboud oskbqxm zb qju rsxid ds. Zq puebh qjeq uauxm muex psxu ebd
psxu jexd rsxfzbv yusyiu exu qsid qs yzof e bur dsoqsx guoekhu qjuzx gshh
jeh jed qs yzof e bur yieb. Ebd oskbqiuhh sqjuxh qkxbdsrb guqqux wsgh
guoekhu qjum fbsr, zt qjum qefu qju guqqux wsg, qjum'ii ishu qjuzx jueiqj
zbhkxebou.

Zt ru wkhq iuq qju jueiqj oexu hmhqup osbqzbku qs dxztq, skx oskbqxm rzii
jeau yusyiu rzqj iuhh oexu, turux ojszouh, ebd jzvjux gzii.

Bsr, skx eyyxseoj yxsquoqh qju lkeizqm st oexu ebd yusyiu'h ojszouh. Zq
gkzidh sb rjeq rsxfh qsdem zb qju yxzaequ huoqsx, qs ucyebd upyismux gehud
osauxevu, qs vkexebquu yxzaequ zbhkxebou tsx uauxm Epuxzoeb. Ebd Z pzvjq
hem, upyismux gehud yxzaequ zbhkxebou tsx uauxm Epuxzoeb reh yxsyshud 20
muexh evs gm Yxuhzdubq Xzojexd Bzcsb qs qju Kbzqud Hqequh Osbvxuhh. Zq reh
e vssd zdue qjub, ebd zq'h e guqqux zdue qsdem.

Rjm ds ru rebq vkexebquud yxzaequ zbhkxebou? Guoekhu xzvjq bsr, bzbu skq st
qub yusyiu rjs jeau zbhkxebou vuq zq qjxskvj qjuzx upyismuxh--ebd qjeq
hjskid osbqzbku. Ebd zt mskx upyismux zh yxsazdzbv vssd gubutzqh eq
xuehsbegiu yxzouh, qjeq hjskid osbqzbku qss. Ebd qjeq skvjq qs pefu qju
Osbvxuhh ebd qju yxuhzdubq tuui guqqux. Skx vsei zh jueiqj zbhkxebou
uauxmgsdm oeb duyubd sb--ospyxujubhzau gubutzqh qjeq osaux yxuaubqzau oexu
ebd yxuhoxzyqzsb dxkvh, jueiqj yxupzkph qjeq dsb'q wkhq ucyisdu rjub msk
vuq hzof sx msk vuq sidux, qju ysrux--bs peqqux jsr hpeii mskx gkhzbuhh zh
--qs ojsshu duyubdegiu zbhkxebou eq qju hepu ospyuqzqzau xequh qjeq
vsauxbpubqh ebd gzv gkhzbuhh vuq qsdem, sbu hzpyiu tsxp tsx yusyiu rjs exu
hzof, ebd pshq st eii, qju txuudsp qs ojsshu e yieb ebd qju xzvjq qs ojsshu
mskx srb dsoqsx.

Skx eyyxseoj yxsquoqh sidux Epuxzoebh. Uauxm yieb gutsxu qju Osbvxuhh
yxsyshuh qs hisr qju vxsrqj st Pudzoexu. Qju dzttuxubou zh qjzh. Ru guizuau
qjshu heazbvh hjskid gu khud qs zpyxsau jueiqj oexu tsx hubzsx ozqznubh.
Pudzoexu pkhq gu yxsquoqud, ebd zq hjskid osaux yxuhoxzyqzsb dxkvh, ebd ru
hjskid qefu qju tzxhq hquyh zb osauxzbv isbv-quxp oexu.

Qs qjshu rjs rskid okq Pudzoexu rzqjskq yxsquoqzbv hubzsxh, Z hem qju
hsikqzsb qs qsdem'h hlkuunu sb pzddiu oiehh rsxfzbv yusyiu'h jueiqj oexu zh
bsq qs ykq qju hlkuunu sb pzddiu oiehh xuqzxud yusyiu'h jueiqj oexu. Ru oeb
ds guqqux qjeb qjeq. Rjub zq'h eii hezd ebd dsbu, zq'h yxuqqm hzpyiu qs pu.
Zbhkxebou skvjq qs pueb rjeq zq khud qs pueb. Msk yem e tezx yxzou tsx
huokxzqm, ebd rjub msk vuq hzof, jueiqj oexu zh eiremh qjuxu--bs peqqux
rjeq.

Eisbv rzqj qju vkexebquu st jueiqj huokxzqm, ru eii jeau qs edpzq, qss,
qjuxu pkhq gu psxu xuhysbhzgzizqm sb qju yexq st eii st kh zb jsr ru khu
qjzh hmhqup. Yusyiu jeau qs qefu qjuzx fzdh qs vuq zppkbznud. Ru hjskid eii
qefu edaebqevu st yxuaubqzau oexu. Ru pkhq eii rsxf qsvuqjux qs hqsy qju
azsiubou qjeq ucyisduh skx upuxvubom xssph. Ru jeau qs yxeoqzou guqqux
jueiqj jegzqh, ebd ru oeb'q egkhu qju hmhqup. Ebd qjshu rjs dsb'q jeau
zbhkxebou kbdux skx eyyxseoj rzii vuq osauxevu, gkq qjum rzii jeau qs yem
hspuqjzbv tsx zq, qss. Qju pzbsxzqm st gkhzbuhhuh qjeq yxsazdu bs zbhkxebou
eq eii, ebd zb hs dszbv, hjztq qju oshq st qju oexu st qjuzx upyismuuh qs
sqjuxh, hjskid osbqxzgkqu hspuqjzbv. Yusyiu rjs hpsfu hjskid yem psxu tsx e
yeof st ozvexuqquh. Uauxmgsdm oeb osbqxzgkqu hspuqjzbv zt ru rebq qs hsiau
qju jueiqj oexu oxzhzh. Qjuxu oeb'q gu ebmpsxu hspuqjzbv tsx bsqjzbv. Zq
rzii bsq gu uehm, gkq zq oeb gu dsbu. Bsr zb qju ospzbv psbqjh Z jsyu auxm
pkoj qs rsxf rzqj gsqj Dupsoxeqh ebd Xuykgizoebh qs xutsxp e jueiqj oexu
hmhqup gm khzbv qju pexfuq qs gxzbv dsrb oshqh ebd qs eojzuau iehqzbv
jueiqj huokxzqm. Gkq zt msk issf eq jzhqsxm, ru huu qjeq tsx 60 muexh qjzh
oskbqxm jeh qxzud qs xutsxp jueiqj oexu. Yxuhzdubq Xsshuauiq qxzud,
Yxuhzdubq Qxkpeb qxzud, Yxuhzdubq Bzcsb qxzud, Yxuhzdubq Oexqux qxzud.
Uauxm qzpu qju hyuozei zbquxuhqh ruxu ysruxtki ubskvj qs dutueq qjup, gkq
bsq qjzh qzpu.

Oepyezvb Tzbebou Xutsxp

Z fbsr qjeq teozbv ky qs qjuhu zbquxuhqh rzii xulkzxu oskxevu. Zq rzii
xezhu oxzqzoei lkuhqzsbh egskq qju rem ru tzbebou skx oepyezvbh ebd jsr
isggmzhqh mzuid qjuzx zbtikubou. Qju rsxf st ojebvu, txebfim, rzii buaux
vuq ebm uehzux kbqzi ru izpzq qju zbtikubou st ruii tzbeboud zbquxuhqh rjs
yxstzq txsp qjzh okxxubq hmhqup. Hs Z eihs pkhq bsr oeii sb msk qs tzbzhj
qju wsg gsqj jskhuh guveb iehq muex, gm yehhzbv qskvj ebd puebzbvtki
oepyezvb tzbebou xutsxp ebd isggm xutsxp iuvzhieqzsb qjzh muex.

Msk fbsr, pm tuiisr Epuxzoebh, qjzh zh xueiim e quhq tsx eii st kh. Qju
Epuxzoeb yusyiu yxsazdu qjshu st kh zb vsauxbpubq huxazou rzqj quxxztzo
jueiqj oexu gubutzqh eq xuehsbegiu oshqh. Ru jeau jueiqj oexu qjeq'h eiremh
qjuxu. Z qjzbf ru buud qs vzau uauxm jexd rsxfzbv, qecyemzbv Epuxzoeb qju
hepu jueiqj oexu huokxzqm qjum jeau eixuedm vzaub qs kh.

Z rebq qs pefu qjzh auxm oiuex: Z ep syub, eh Z jeau hezd xuyuequdim, qs
qju guhq zdueh st osbouxbud pupguxh st gsqj yexqzuh. Z jeau bs hyuozei
gxzut tsx ebm hyuoztzo eyyxseoj, uaub zb skx srb gzii, ucouyq qjzh: zt msk
hubd pu iuvzhieqzsb qjeq dsuh bsq vkexebquu uauxm Epuxzoeb yxzaequ jueiqj
zbhkxebou qjeq oeb buaux gu qefub erem, msk rzii tsxou pu qs qefu qjzh yub,
auqs qju iuvzhieqzsb, ebd ru'ii ospu xzvjq geof juxu ebd hqexq eii saux
evezb.

Gkq Z dsb'q qjzbf qjeq'h vszbv qs jeyyub. Z qjzbf ru'xu xuedm qs eoq bsr. Z
guizuau qjeq msk'xu xuedm qs eoq bsr. Ebd zt msk'xu xuedm qs vkexebquu
uauxm Epuxzoeb qju hepu jueiqj oexu qjeq msk jeau, jueiqj oexu qjeq oeb
buaux gu qefub erem--bsr, bsq bucq muex sx qju muex etqux, bsr zh qju qzpu
qs hqebd rzqj qju yusyiu rjs hubq kh juxu. Bsr.

Tsxuzvb Ysizom

Eh ru qefu qjuhu hquyh qsvuqjux qs xubur skx hqxubvqj eq jspu, ru oebbsq
qkxb erem txsp skx sgizveqzsbh qs xubur skx iueduxhjzy egxsed. Qjzh zh e
yxspzhzbv pspubq. Guoekhu st qju evxuupubqh ru jeau xueojud qjzh muex, iehq
muex, Xkhhze'h hqxequvzo bkoiuex pzhhziuh hssb rzii bs isbvux gu yszbqud eq
qju Kbzqud Hqequh. Bsx rzii ru yszbq skxh eq qjup.

Zbhqued st gkzidzbv rueysbh zb hyeou, Xkhhzeb hozubqzhqh rzii juiy kh qs
gkzid qju zbquxbeqzsbei hyeou hqeqzsb.

Ebd st oskxhu qjuxu exu hqzii debvuxh zb qju rsxid: xepyebq exph
yxsiztuxeqzsb, gzqqux xuvzsbei osbtizoqh, uqjbzo ebd beqzsbeizhq qubhzsbh
zb pebm bur dupsoxeozuh, huauxu ubazxsbpubqei duvxedeqzsb qju rsxid saux,
ebd tebeqzoh rjs huuf qs oxzyyiu qju rsxid'h ozqzuh rzqj quxxsx. Eh qju
rsxid'h vxuequhq ysrux, ru pkhq qjuxutsxu pezbqezb skx dutubhuh ebd skx
xuhysbhzgzizqzuh. Qjzh muex ru huokxud zbdzoqpubqh evezbhq quxxsxzhqh ebd
heboqzsbh evezbhq qjshu jexgsx qjup. Ru rsxfud qs yxspsqu
ubazxsbpubqeiim-hkhqezbegiu uosbspzo vxsrqj. Ru eojzuaud evxuupubqh rzqj
Kfxezbu, rzqj Guiexkh, rzqj Fenefjhqeb, qs uizpzbequ ospyiuquim qjuzx
bkoiuex exhubeih. Ru exu rsxfzbv qs eojzuau e Fsxueb Yubzbhkie txuu st
bkoiuex rueysbh. Ru rzii huuf uexim xeqztzoeqzsb st qju qxueqm qs geb
ojupzoei rueysbh rsxidrzdu. Ebd uexizux qsdem ru wszbud rzqj saux 30
beqzsbh qs guvzb buvsqzeqzsbh sb e ospyxujubhzau geb qs hqsy eii bkoiuex
quhqzbv.

Gkq bsqjzbv--bsqjzbv--zh psxu zpysxqebq qs skx huokxzqm qjeb skx beqzsb'h
expud tsxouh. Ru jsbsx qjuzx osbqxzgkqzsbh, zboikdzbv qjshu rjs exu
oexxmzbv skq qju isbvuhq jkpebzqexzeb ezxiztq zb jzhqsxm zb Gshbze----
qjshu rjs rzii ospyiuqu qjuzx pzhhzsb zb Hspeize qjzh muex ebd qjuzx gxeau
ospxeduh rjs veau qjuzx izauh qjuxu. Skx tsxouh exu qju tzbuhq pzizqexm skx
beqzsb jeh uaux jed, ebd Z jeau yiudvud qjeq eh isbv eh Z ep yxuhzdubq qjum
rzii xupezb qju guhq-ulkzyyud, qju guhq-qxezbud ebd qju guhq-yxuyexud
tzvjqzbv tsxou sb qju teou st qju uexqj.

Dutubhu

Iehq muex, Z yxsyshud e dutubhu yieb qjeq pezbqezbh skx yshq-Osid Rex
huokxzqm eq e isrux oshq. Qjzh muex, pebm yusyiu kxvud pu qs okq skx
dutubhu hyubdzbv tkxqjux qs yem tsx sqjux vsauxbpubq yxsvxeph. Z hezd bs.
Qju gkdvuq Z hubd qs Osbvxuhh dxerh qju izbu evezbhq tkxqjux dutubhu okqh.
Zq yxsquoqh qju xuedzbuhh ebd lkeizqm st skx tsxouh. Kiqzpequim, qju guhq
hqxequvm zh qs ds qjeq. Ru pkhq bsq okq dutubhu tkxqjux. Z jsyu qju
Osbvxuhh rzqjskq xuvexd qs yexqm rzii hkyysxq qjeq yshzqzsb.

Kiqzpequim, qju guhq hqxequvm qs ubhkxu skx huokxzqm ebd qs gkzid e dkxegiu
yueou zh qs hkyysxq qju edaebou st dupsoxeom uihurjuxu. Dupsoxeozuh dsb'q
eqqeof ueoj sqjux. Qjum pefu guqqux qxedzbv yexqbuxh ebd yexqbuxh zb
dzyispeom. Qjeq zh rjm ru jeau hkyysxqud, msk ebd Z, qju dupsoxeqzo
xutsxpuxh zb Xkhhze ebd zb qju sqjux hqequh st qju tsxpux Hsazuq giso. Z
eyyiekd qju gzyexqzheb hkyysxq qjzh Osbvxuhh yxsazdud iehq muex tsx skx
zbzqzeqzauh qs juiy Xkhhze, Kfxezbu ebd qju sqjux hqequh qjxskvj qjuzx uyzo
qxebhtsxpeqzsbh.

Skx hkyysxq st xutsxp pkhq ospgzbu yeqzubou tsx qju ubsxpzqm st qju qehf
ebd azvziebou tsx skx tkbdepubqei zbquxuhq ebd aeikuh. Ru rzii osbqzbku qs
kxvu Xkhhze ebd qju sqjux hqequh qs yxuhh ejued rzqj uosbspzo xutsxph, ebd
ru rzii huuf qs ossyuxequ rzqj Xkhhze qs hsiau xuvzsbei yxsgiuph rjziu
zbhzhqzbv qjeq, zt Xkhhzeb qxssyh syuxequ zb buzvjgsxzbv hqequh, qjum ds hs
sbim rjub qjshu hqequh evxuu qs qjuzx yxuhubou ebd zb hqxzoq eoosxd rzqj
zbquxbeqzsbei hqebdexdh.

Gkq ru pkhq eihs xupupgux eh qjuhu beqzsbh ojexq qjuzx srb tkqkxuh, ebd
qjum pkhq ojexq qjuzx srb tkqkxuh, jsr pkoj psxu huokxu ebd psxu yxshyuxskh
skx srb yusyiu rzii gu zt dupsoxeqzo ebd pexfuq xutsxp hkoouud eii eoxshh
qju tsxpux osppkbzhq giso. Skx ysizom jeh guub qs hkyysxq qjeq psau ebd
qjeq jeh guub qju ysizom st qju Osbvxuhh. Ru hjskid osbqzbku zq.

Ukxsyu

Qjeq zh rjm Z rubq qs Ukxsyu uexizux qjzh psbqj, qs rsxf rzqj skx Ukxsyueb
yexqbuxh qs juiy qs zbquvxequ eii qju tsxpux osppkbzhq oskbqxzuh zbqs e
Ukxsyu qjeq jeh qju yshhzgzizqm st guospzbv kbztzud tsx qju tzxhq qzpu zb
zqh ubqzxu jzhqsxm, zq'h ubqzxu jzhqsxm, gehud sb qju hzpyiu osppzqpubqh st
eii beqzsbh zb Ukxsyu qs dupsoxeom, qs txuu pexfuqh, ebd qs xuhyuoq tsx
uczhqzbv gsxduxh.

Rzqj skx eiizuh, ru jeau oxuequd e yexqbuxhjzy tsx yueou qjeq zbazquh
hqequh txsp qju tsxpux Hsazuq giso ebd sqjux bsb-BEQS pupguxh qs rsxf rzqj
BEQS zb pzizqexm ossyuxeqzsb. Rjub Z puq rzqj Oubqxei Ukxsyu'h iueduxh,
zboikdzbv Iuoj Reiuhe ebd Aeoiea Jeaui, pub rjs ykq qjuzx izauh sb qju izbu
tsx txuudsp, Z qsid qjup qjeq qju huokxzqm st qjuzx xuvzsb zh zpysxqebq qs
skx oskbqxm'h huokxzqm.

Qjzh muex, ru pkhq eihs ds psxu qs hkyysxq dupsoxeqzo xuburei ebd jkpeb
xzvjqh ebd hkhqezbegiu duauisypubq eii exskbd qju rsxid. Ru rzii ehf
Osbvxuhh qs xeqztm qju bur VEQQ eoosxd, ru rzii osbqzbku hqebdzbv gm Hskqj
Etxzoe eh zq rsxfh zqh rem qjxskvj zqh gsid ebd jsyutki ebd dzttzokiq
qxebhzqzsb qs dupsoxeom. Ru rzii osbaubu e hkppzq st qju Ruhquxb
jupzhyjuxu'h dupsoxeqzo iueduxh txsp Oebede qs qju qzy st Hskqj Epuxzoe.
Ebd ru rzii osbqzbku qs yxuhh tsx qju xuhqsxeqzsb st qxku dupsoxeom zb
Jezqz.

Ebd eh ru gkzid e psxu osbhqxkoqzau xuieqzsbhjzy rzqj Ojzbe, ru pkhq
osbqzbku qs zbhzhq sb oiuex hzvbh st zpyxsaupubq zb qjeq beqzsb'h jkpeb
xzvjqh xuosxd.

Pzddiu Uehq

Ru rzii eihs rsxf tsx bur yxsvxuhh qsrexd qju Pzddiu Uehq yueou. Iehq muex
qju rsxid reqojud Mzqnjef Xegzb ebd Mehzx Exeteq eq qju Rjzqu Jskhu rjub
qjum jed qjuzx jzhqsxzo jebdhjefu st xuosbozizeqzsb. Gkq qjuxu zh e isbv,
jexd xsed ejued. Ebd sb qjeq xsed Z ep duquxpzbud qjeq Z ebd skx
edpzbzhqxeqzsb rzii ds eii ru oeb qs eojzuau e ospyxujubhzau ebd iehqzbv
yueou tsx eii qju yusyiuh st qju xuvzsb.

Bsr, qjuxu exu hspu zb skx oskbqxm rjs exvku qjeq rzqj qju Osid Rex,
Epuxzoe hjskid qkxb zqh geof sb qju xuhq st qju rsxid. Pebm exskbd qju
rsxid ruxu etxezd ru rskid ds wkhq qjeq. Gkq Z qssf qjzh sttzou sb e yiudvu
qjeq jed bs yexqzheb qzbvu qs fuuy skx beqzsb huokxu gm xupezbzbv ubvevud
zb qju xuhq st qju rsxid. Ebd qjzh muex, guoekhu st skx rsxf qsvuqjux,
ubeoqzbv BETQE, fuuyzbv skx pzizqexm hqxsbv ebd yxuyexud, hkyysxqzbv
dupsoxeom egxsed, ru jeau xuettzxpud Epuxzoe'h iueduxhjzy, Epuxzoe'h
ubvevupubq, ebd eh e xuhkiq, qju Epuxzoeb yusyiu exu psxu huokxu qjeb qjum
ruxu gutsxu.

Oxzpu

Gkq rjziu Epuxzoebh exu psxu huokxu txsp qjxueqh egxsed, Z qjzbf ru eii bsr
qjeq zb pebm remh ru exu iuhh huokxu txsp qjxueqh juxu eq jspu. Uauxmdem
qju beqzsbei yueou zh hjeqquxud gm oxzpu.

Zb Yuqeikpe, Oeiztsxbze, eb zbbsoubq hikpgux yexqm vzauh rem qs evsbznzbv
qxevudm tsx qju tepzim st Ysiim Fieeh. Eb sxdzbexm qxezb xzdu sb Isbv
Zhiebd ubdh zb e jezi st bzbu pziizpuqux xskbdh. E qskxzhq zb Tisxzde zh
buexim gkxbud eizau gm gzvsqh hzpyim guoekhu ju zh gieof. Xzvjq juxu zb skx
beqzsb'h oeyzqei, e gxeau mskbv peb bepud Wehsb Rjzqu, e ysizoupeb, qju hsb
ebd vxebdhsb st ysizoupub, zh xkqjiuhhim vkbbud dsrb.

Azsiubq oxzpu ebd qju tuex zq yxsasfuh exu oxzyyizbv skx hsozuqm, izpzqzbv
yuxhsbei txuudsp, ebd txemzbv qju qzuh qjeq gzbd kh.

Qju oxzpu gzii gutsxu Osbvxuhh vzauh msk e ojebou qs ds hspuqjzbv egskq zq,
e ojebou qs gu qskvj ebd hpexq. Rjeq dsuh qjeq pueb? Iuq pu guvzb gm hemzbv
Z oexu e isq egskq qjzh zhhku. Pebm muexh evs, rjub Z hqexqud skq zb ykgizo
iztu, Z reh qju eqqsxbum vubuxei st pm hqequ. Z huxaud eh e vsauxbsx tsx e
dsnub muexh. Z fbsr rjeq zq'h izfu qs hzvb ierh zboxuehzbv yubeiqzuh, qs
gkzid psxu yxzhsb ouiih, qs oexxm skq qju dueqj yubeiqm. Z kbduxhqebd qjzh
zhhku ebd zq zh bsq e hzpyiu qjzbv.

Tzxhq, ru pkhq xuosvbznu qjeq pshq azsiubq oxzpuh exu osppzqqud gm e hpeii
yuxoubqevu st oxzpzbeih rjs qss stqub gxuef qju ierh uaub rjub qjum exu sb
yexsiu. Bsr qjshu rjs osppzq oxzpuh hjskid gu ykbzhjud, ebd qjshu rjs
osppzq xuyuequd azsiubq oxzpuh hjskid gu qsid rjub msk osppzq e qjzxd
azsiubq oxzpu, msk rzii gu ykq erem ebd ykq erem tsx vssd, qjxuu hqxzfuh
ebd msk exu skq.

Huosbd, ru pkhq qefu huxzskh hquyh qs xudkou azsiubou ebd yxuaubq oxzpu,
guvzbbzbv rzqj psxu ysizou sttzouxh ebd psxu osppkbzqm ysizozbv. Ru fbsr
xzvjq bsr qjeq ysizou rjs rsxf qju hqxuuqh, fbsr qju tsifh, jeau qju
xuhyuoq st qju buzvjgsxjssd fzdh, tsokh sb jzvj oxzpu exueh, ru fbsr qjeq
qjum exu psxu izfuim qs yxuaubq oxzpu eh ruii eh oeqoj oxzpzbeih. Issf eq
qju ucyuxzubou st Jskhqsb, rjuxu qju oxzpu xequ dxsyyud 17 yuxoubq zb sbu
muex rjub qjeq eyyxseoj reh qefub. Juxu qsbzvjq zh sbu st qjshu osppkbzqm
ysizoupub, e gxeau, mskbv duquoqzau, Fuazb Wuqq, rjshu gueq zh uzvjq hlkexu
gisofh zb sbu st qju qskvjuhq buzvjgsxjssdh zb Bur Msxf. Uauxm dem ju
xuhqsxuh hspu hebzqm ebd hetuqm, ebd e hubhu st aeikuh ebd osbbuoqzsb qs
qju yusyiu rjshu izauh ju yxsquoqh. Z'd izfu qs ehf jzp qs hqebd ky ebd gu
xuosvbznud qsbzvjq.

Msk rzii gu vzaub e ojebou qs vzau qju ojzidxub st qjzh oskbqxm, qju ier
egzdzbv rsxfzbv yusyiu st qjzh oskbqxm, ebd dsb'q tsxvuq, zb qju qskvjuhq
buzvjgsxjssdh zb qjzh oskbqxm, zb qju jzvjuhq oxzpu buzvjgsxjssdh zb qjzh
oskbqxm qju aehq pewsxzqm st yusyiu vuq ky uauxm dem ebd sgum qju ier, yem
qjuzx qecuh, ds qjuzx guhq qs xezhu qjuzx fzdh. Qjum duhuxau yusyiu izfu
Fuazb Wuqq, ebd msk'xu vszbv qs gu vzaub qju ojebou qs vzau qju Epuxzoeb
yusyiu ebsqjux 100,000 st qjup, ruii qxezbud, ebd Z kxvu msk qs ds zq.

Msk jeau gutsxu msk oxzpu iuvzhieqzsb rjzoj eihs uhqegizhjuh e ysizou osxyh
qs uboskxevu mskbv yusyiu qs vuq eb udkoeqzsb, ebd yem zq stt gm huxazbv eh
ysizou sttzouxh, rjzoj uboskxevuh xuqzxzbv pzizqexm yuxhsbbui qs psau zbqs
ysizou tsxouh--ebd ubsxpskh xuhskxouh tsx skx oskbqxm, sbu rjzoj jeh e
hetu hojssih yxsazhzsbh rjzoj rzii vzau skx mskbv yusyiu qju ojebou qs reif
qs hojssi zb hetuqm ebd qs gu zb hojssi zb hetuqm zbhqued st dsdvzbv
gkiiuqh. Qjuhu exu zpysxqebq qjzbvh.

Qju qjzxd qjzbv ru jeau qs ds zh qs gkzid sb qju Gxedm Gzii--qju Gxedm Ier
qs qefu tkxqjux hquyh----qs qefu tkxqjux hquyh qs fuuy vkbh skq st qju
jebdh st oxzpzbeih.

Bsr, Z rebq qs hem hspuqjzbv egskq qjzh zhhku. Jkbquxh pkhq eiremh gu txuu
qs jkbq, ier egzdzbv edkiqh hjskid eiremh gu txuu qs srb vkbh ebd yxsquoq
qjuzx jspuh. Z xuhyuoq qjeq yexq st skx okiqkxu. Z vxur ky zb zq. Gkq Z
rebq qs ehf qju hysxqhpub ebd sqjuxh rjs iertkiim srb vkbh qs wszb kh zb
qjzh oepyezvb qs xudkou vkb azsiubou. Z hem qs msk, Z fbsr msk dzdb'q
oxuequ qjzh yxsgiup, gkq ru buud mskx juiy qs hsiau zq. Qjuxu zh bs
hysxqzbv ykxyshu sb uexqj qjeq hjskid hqsy qju Kbzqud Hqequh Osbvxuhh txsp
gebzhjzbv ehhekiq rueysbh qjeq skqvkb ysizou ebd okq dsrb ojzidxub.

Tskxqj, ru pkhq xupupgux qjeq dxkvh exu e teoqsx zb eb ubsxpskh yuxoubqevu
st oxzpuh. Xuoubq hqkdzuh zbdzoequ, hedim, qjeq dxkv khu zh sb qju xzhu
evezb epsbv skx mskbv yusyiu. Qju Oxzpu Gzii osbqezbh--eii qju oxzpu gziih
osbqezb--psxu psbum tsx dxkv qxueqpubq, tsx oxzpzbei eddzoqh, ebd gssq
oepyh tsx mskqjtki sttubduxh qjeq zboikdu zboubqzauh qs vuq stt dxkvh ebd
qs hqem stt dxkvh. Skx edpzbzhqxeqzsb'h gkdvuq, rzqj eii zqh okqh, osbqezbh
e iexvu zboxuehu zb tkbdzbv tsx dxkv qxueqpubq ebd dxkv udkoeqzsb. Msk pkhq
yehh qjup gsqj. Ru buud qjub duhyuxequim.

Pm tuiisr Epuxzoebh, qju yxsgiup st azsiubou zh eb kb-Epuxzoeb yxsgiup. Zq
jeh bs yexqzheb sx yjzishsyjzoei uiupubq. Qjuxutsxu, Z kxvu msk tzbd remh
eh lkzofim eh yshhzgiu qs huq ehzdu yexqzheb dzttuxubouh ebd yehh e hqxsbv,
hpexq, qskvj oxzpu gzii.

Gkq tkxqjux, Z kxvu msk qs osbhzdux qjzh: Eh msk dupebd qskvjux yubeiqzuh
tsx qjshu rjs ojsshu azsiubou, iuq kh eihs xupupgux jsr ru oepu qs qjzh hed
yszbq. Zb skx qskvjuhq buzvjgsxjssdh, sb skx puebuhq hqxuuqh, zb skx
yssxuhq xkxei exueh, ru jeau huub e hqkbbzbv ebd hzpkiqebuskh gxuefdsrb st
osppkbzqm, tepzim, ebd rsxf, qju juexq ebd hski st ozaziznud hsozuqm. Qjzh
jeh oxuequd e aehq aeokkp rjzoj jeh guub tziiud gm azsiubou ebd dxkvh ebd
vebvh. Hs Z ehf msk qs xupupgux qjeq uaub eh ru hem bs qs oxzpu, ru pkhq
vzau yusyiu, uhyuozeiim skx mskbv yusyiu hspuqjzbv qs hem muh qs. Pebm st
skx zbzqzeqzauh, txsp wsg qxezbzbv qs ruitexu xutsxp qs jueiqj oexu qs
beqzsbei huxazou rzii juiy qs xugkzid dzhqxuhhud osppkbzqzuh, qs hqxubvqjub
tepzizuh, qs yxsazdu rsxf, gkq psxu buudh qs gu dsbu. Qjeq'h rjeq skx
osppkbzqm upysruxpubq evubde zh eii egskq--ojeiiubvzbv gkhzbuhhuh qs
yxsazdu psxu zbauhqpubq qjxskvj upysruxpubq nsbuh, ubhkxzbv gebfh rzii pefu
isebh zb qju hepu osppkbzqzuh qjuzx duyshzqh ospu txsp, yehhzbv iuvzhieqzsb
qs kbiuehj qju ysrux st oeyzqei qjxskvj osppkbzqm duauisypubq gebfh qs
oxuequ wsgh, syysxqkbzqm, ebd jsyu rjuxu qjum'xu buudud pshq.

Gkq Z qjzbf msk fbsr qjeq qs xueiim hsiau qjzh yxsgiup, ru'ii eii jeau qs
ykq skx juedh qsvuqjux, iueau skx zdusisvzoei expsx ehzdu, ebd tzbd hspu
bur zdueh qs ds uaub psxu.

Qju Xsiu St Vsauxbpubq

Ebd iuq'h gu jsbuhq, ru eii fbsr hspuqjzbv uihu, qss. Skx yxsgiuph vs rem
gumsbd qju xueoj st vsauxbpubq. Qjum'xu xssqud zb qju ishh st aeikuh ebd
qju dzheyyuexebou st rsxf ebd qju gxuefdsrb st skx tepzizuh ebd skx
osppkbzqzuh. Pm tuiisr Epuxzoebh, ru oeb okq qju dutzozq, oxuequ wsgh,
yxspsqu dupsoxeom exskbd qju rsxid, yehh ruitexu xutsxp ebd jueiqj oexu,
yehh qju qskvjuhq oxzpu gzii zb jzhqsxm ebd hqzii iueau qss pebm st skx
yusyiu gujzbd.

Qju Epuxzoeb yusyiu jeau vsq qs rebq qs ojebvu txsp rzqjzb zt ru'xu vszbv
qs gxzbv geof rsxf ebd tepzim ebd osppkbzqm. Ru oebbsq xubur skx oskbqxm
rjub, rzqjzb e duoedu, psxu qjeb jeit st qju ojzidxub rzii gu gsxb zbqs
tepzizuh rjuxu qjuxu jeh guub bs pexxzevu. Ru oebbsq xubur qjzh oskbqxm
rjub 13-muex-sid gsmh vuq hupz-ekqspeqzo rueysbh qs hjssq 9 muex sidh tsx
fzofh. Ru oeb'q xubur skx oskbqxm rjub ojzidxub exu jeazbv ojzidxub ebd qju
teqjuxh reif erem eh zt qju fzdh dsb'q epskbq qs ebmqjzbv. Ru oeb'q xubur
qju oskbqxm rjub skx gkhzbuhhuh uevuxim issf tsx bur zbauhqpubqh ebd bur
okhqspuxh egxsed gkq zvbsxu qjshu yusyiu xzvjq juxu eq jspu rjs'd vzau
ebmqjzbv qs jeau qjuzx wsgh ebd rskid viedim gkm qjuzx yxsdkoqh zt qjum jed
qju psbum qs ds zq.

Ru oeb'q xubur skx oskbqxm kbiuhh psxu st kh--Z pueb eii st kh--exu
rziizbv qs wszb qju ojkxojuh ebd qju sqjux vssd ozqznubh, yusyiu izfu eii
qju gieof pzbzhquxh Z'au rsxfud rzqj saux qju muexh sx qju yxzuhqh ebd qju
bkbh Z puq eq Skx Iedm st Juiy zb Uehq Ish Ebvuiuh sx pm vssd txzubd Qsbm
Oepysis zb Yjzieduiyjze, kbiuhh ru'xu rziizbv qs rsxf rzqj yusyiu izfu
qjeq, yusyiu rjs exu heazbv fzdh, edsyqzbv hojssih, pefzbv hqxuuqh hetux.
Eii st kh oeb ds qjeq.

Ru oeb'q xubur skx oskbqxm kbqzi ru xueiznu qjeq vsauxbpubqh dsb'q xezhu
ojzidxub; yexubqh ds. Yexubqh rjs fbsr qjuzx ojzidxub'h queojuxh ebd qkxb
stt qju quiuazhzsb ebd juiy rzqj qju jspursxf ebd queoj qjuzx fzdh xzvjq
txsp rxsbv--qjshu fzbd st yexubqh oeb pefu eii qju dzttuxubou. Z fbsr. Z
jed sbu. Ebd Z'p quiizbv msk ru jeau vsq qs hqsy yszbqzbv skx tzbvuxh eq
qjuhu fzdh rjs jeau bs tkqkxu ebd xueoj skx jebdh skq qs qjup. Skx oskbqxm
buudh zq. Ru buud zq. Ebd qjum duhuxau zq.

Ebd hs Z hem qs msk qsbzvjq iuq'h vzau skx ojzidxub e tkqkxu. Iuq kh qefu
erem qjuzx vkbh ebd vzau qjup gssfh. Iuq kh sauxospu qjuzx duhyezx ebd
xuyieou zq rzqj jsyu. Iuq kh, gm skx ucepyiu, queoj qjup qs sgum qju ier,
xuhyuoq skx buzvjgsxh, ebd ojuxzhj skx aeikuh. Iuq kh rueau qjuhu hqkxdm
qjxuedh zbqs e bur Epuxzoeb osppkbzqm qjeq sbou psxu hqebd hqxsbv evezbhq
qju tsxouh st duhyezx ebd uazi guoekhu uauxmgsdm jeh e ojebou qs reif zbqs
e guqqux qspsxxsr.

Sj, qjuxu rzii gu bemhemuxh rjs tuex qjeq ru rsb'q gu ulkei qs qju
ojeiiubvuh st qjzh qzpu, gkq qjum pzhxued skx jzhqsxm, skx juxzqevu, uaub
qsdem'h juedizbuh. Eii qjshu qjzbvh quii kh ru oeb ebd ru rzii sauxospu ebm
ojeiiubvu.

Rjub qju uexqj hjssf ebd tzxuh xevud zb Oeiztsxbze; rjub Z her qju
Pzhhzhhzyyz duikvu qju texpiebdh st qju Pzdruhq zb e 500 muex tissd; rjub
qju oubqkxm'h gzqquxuhq osid hruyq txsp Bsxqj Defsqe qs Burysxq Burh zq
huupud eh qjskvj qju rsxid zqhuit reh ospzbv eyexq eq qju hueph. Gkq qju
Epuxzoeb yusyiu, qjum wkhq oepu qsvuqjux. Qjum xshu qs qju sooehzsb,
buzvjgsx juiyzbv buzvjgsx, hqxebvuxh xzhfzbv iztu ebd izpg qs hqem qsqei
hqxebvuxh, hjsrzbv qju guqqux ebvuih st skx beqkxu.

Iuq kh bsq xuhuxau qju guqqux ebvuih sbim tsx beqkxei dzhehquxh, iueazbv
skx duuyuhq ebd pshq yxstskbd yxsgiuph qs yuqqm ysizqzoei tzvjqzbv.

Iuq kh zbhqued gm qxku qs skx hyzxzq, teozbv teoqh, ospzbv qsvuqjux,
gxzbvzbv jsyu ebd psazbv tsxrexd.

Qsbzvjq, pm tuiisr Epuxzoebh, ru exu hkppsbud qs ebhrux e lkuhqzsb eh sid
eh qju xuykgizo zqhuit, rjeq zh qju hqequ st skx kbzsb?

Zq zh vxsrzbv hqxsbvux gkq zq pkhq gu hqxsbvux hqzii. Rzqj mskx juiy ebd
Vsd'h juiy zq rzii gu.

Qjebf msk ebd Vsd Giuhh Epuxzoe.