Qf. Asgzjgf, Qf. Rkug Sfgakmgnt, qgqigfa bp tdg 104td Ubnlfgaa,
mkatknlwkadgm lwgata, qx pghhbe Zqgfkuzna zhh zufbaa bwf hznm:

Hgt qg iglkn tbnkldt ix azxknl tb bwf qgn znm ebqgn kn wnkpbfq zfbwnm tdg
ebfhm, znm gasgukzhhx tdbag dghsknl sgzug tzjg fbbt kn Ibankz znm tb tdgkf
pzqkhkga, K tdznj xbw. Zqgfkuz ka rgfx, rgfx sfbwm bp xbw.

Qx mwtx tbnkldt ka tb fgsbft bn tdg atztg bp tdg Wnkbn--nbt tdg atztg bp
bwf lbrgfnqgnt, iwt bp bwf Zqgfkuzn ubqqwnktx; znm tb agt pbftd bwf
fgasbnakikhktkga, kn tdg ebfma bp bwf Pbwnmgfa, tb pbfq z qbfg sgfpgut
wnkbn.

Tdg atztg bp tdg Wnkbn ka atfbnl. Bwf gubnbqx ka tdg dgzhtdkgat kt dza iggn
kn tdfgg mguzmga. Eg dzrg tdg hbegat ubqikngm fztga bp wngqshbxqgnt znm
knphztkbn kn 27 xgzfa. Eg dzrg ufgztgm ngzfhx 8 qkhhkbn nge ybia, brgf z
qkhhkbn bp tdgq kn izaku knmwatfkga, hkjg ubnatfwutkbn znm zwtbqbikhga.
Zqgfkuz ka aghhknl qbfg uzfa tdzn Yzszn pbf tdg pkfat tkqg aknug tdg 1970a.
Znm pbf tdfgg xgzfa kn z fbe, eg dzrg dzm z fgubfm nwqigf bp nge iwakngaaga
atzftgm kn bwf ubwntfx.

Bwf hgzmgfadks kn tdg ebfhm ka zhab atfbnl, ifknlknl dbsg pbf nge sgzug.
Znm sgfdzsa qbat kqsbftznt, eg zfg lzknknl lfbwnm kn fgatbfknl bwf
pwnmzqgntzh rzhwga. Tdg ufkqg fztg, tdg eghpzfg znm pbbm atzqs fbhha, tdg
sbrgftx fztg znm tdg tggn sfglnznux fztg zfg zhh mben. Znm za tdgx lb mben,
sfbasguta pbf Zqgfkuz'a pwtwfg lb ws.

Eg hkrg kn zn zlg bp sbaakikhktx. Z dwnmfgm xgzfa zlb eg qbrgm pfbq pzfq tb
pzutbfx. Nbe eg qbrg tb zn zlg bp tgudnbhblx, knpbfqztkbn, znm lhbizh
ubqsgtktkbn. Tdgag udznlga dzrg bsgngm rzat nge bssbftwnktkga pbf bwf
sgbshg, iwt tdgx dzrg zhab sfgagntgm tdgq ektd atkpp udzhhgnlga. Edkhg qbfg
Zqgfkuzna zfg hkrknl igttgf, tbb qznx bp bwf pghhbe uktkvgna zfg ebfjknl
dzfmgf ywat tb jggs ws, znm tdgx zfg fkldthx ubnugfngm zibwt tdg aguwfktx
bp tdgkf pzqkhkga.

Tdg Fbhg Bp Lbrgfnqgnt

Eg qwat znaegf dgfg tdfgg pwnmzqgntzh cwgatkbna: Pkfat, dbe mb eg qzjg tdg
Zqgfkuzn Mfgzq bp bssbftwnktx pbf zhh z fgzhktx pbf zhh Zqgfkuzna edb zfg
ekhhknl tb ebfj pbf kt? Agubnm, dbe mb eg sfgagfrg bwf bhm znm gnmwfknl
rzhwga za eg qbrg kntb tdg pwtwfg? Znm, tdkfm, dbe mb eg qggt tdgag
udzhhgnlga tblgtdgf, za bng Zqgfkuz?

Eg jnbe ikl lbrgfnqgnt mbga nbt dzrg zhh tdg znaegfa. Eg jnbe tdgfg'a nbt z
sfblfzq pbf grgfx sfbihgq. Eg dzrg ebfjgm tb lkrg tdg Zqgfkuzn sgbshg z
aqzhhgf, hgaa iwfgzwufztku lbrgfnqgnt kn Ezadknltbn. Znm eg dzrg tb lkrg
tdg Zqgfkuzn sgbshg bng tdzt hkrga ektdkn kta qgzna.

Tdg gfz bp ikl lbrgfnqgnt ka brgf. Iwt eg uznnbt lb izuj tb tdg tkqg edgn
bwf uktkvgna egfg hgpt tb pgnm pbf tdgqaghrga. Knatgzm, eg qwat lb pbfezfm
za bng Zqgfkuz, bng nztkbn ebfjknl tblgtdgf tb qggt tdg udzhhgnlga eg pzug
tblgtdgf. Aghp-fghkznug znm tgzqebfj zfg nbt bssbaknl rkftwga; eg qwat dzrg
ibtd.

K ighkgrg bwf nge, aqzhhgf lbrgfnqgnt qwat ebfj kn zn bhm-pzadkbngm
Zqgfkuzn ezx, tblgtdgf ektd zhh bp bwf uktkvgna tdfbwld atztg znm hbuzh
lbrgfnqgnta, kn tdg ebfjshzug, kn fghklkbwa, udzfktzihg znm ukrku
zaabukztkbna. Bwf lbzh qwat ig tb gnzihg zhh bwf sgbshg tb qzjg tdg qbat bp
tdgkf ben hkrga--ektd atfbnlgf pzqkhkga, qbfg gmwuztkbnzh bssbftwnktx,
gubnbqku aguwfktx, azpgf atfggta, z uhgzngf gnrkfbnqgnt kn z azpgf ebfhm.

Tb kqsfbrg tdg atztg bp bwf Wnkbn, eg qwat zaj qbfg bp bwfaghrga, eg qwat
gosgut qbfg bp gzud btdgf, znm eg qwat pzug bwf udzhhgnlga tblgtdgf.

Dgfg, kn tdka shzug, bwf fgasbnakikhktx iglkna ektd izhznuknl tdg iwmlgt kn
z ezx tdzt ka pzkf tb zhh Zqgfkuzna. Tdgfg ka nbe ifbzm ikszftkazn
zlfggqgnt tdzt sgfqzngnt mgpkukt asgnmknl qwat ubqg tb zn gnm.

K ubqshkqgnt tdg Fgswihkuzn hgzmgfadks znm tdg qgqigfadks pbf tdg gngflx
znm mgtgfqknztkbn xbw dzrg ifbwldt tb tdka tzaj bp izhznuknl tdg iwmlgt.
Znm K tdznj tdg Mgqbufzta pbf szaaknl tdg hzflgat mgpkukt fgmwutkbn shzn kn
dkatbfx kn 1993, edkud dza zhfgzmx uwt tdg mgpkukt ngzfhx kn dzhp kn tdfgg
xgzfa.

Mgpkukt

Aknug 1993, eg dzrg zhh iglwn tb agg tdg igngpkta bp mgpkukt fgmwutkbn.
Hbegf kntgfgat fztga dzrg qzmg kt gzakgf pbf iwakngaaga tb ibffbe znm tb
knrgat znm tb ufgztg nge ybia. Hbegf kntgfgat fztga dzrg ifbwldt mben tdg
ubat bp dbqg qbftlzlga, uzf szxqgnta znm ufgmkt uzfm fztga tb bfmknzfx
uktkvgna. Nbe, kt ka tkqg tb pknkad tdg ybi znm izhznug tdg iwmlgt.

Tdbwld mkppgfgnuga fgqzkn zqbnl wa edkud zfg aklnkpkuznt, tdg ubqikngm
tbtzh bp tdg sfbsbagm azrknla tdzt zfg ubqqbn tb ibtd shzna ka qbfg tdzn
gnbwld, waknl tdg nwqigfa pfbq xbwf Ubnlfgaakbnzh Iwmlgt Bppkug tb izhznug
tdg iwmlgt kn agrgn xgzfa znm tb sfbrkmg z qbmgat tzo uwt.

Tdgag uwta zfg fgzh. Tdgx ekhh fgcwkfg azufkpkug pfbq grgfxbng. Iwt tdgag
uwta mb nbt wnmgfqkng bwf pwnmzqgntzh bihklztkbna tb bwf szfgnta, bwf
udkhmfgn, znm bwf pwtwfg, ix gnmznlgfknl Qgmkuzfg, bf Qgmkuzkm, bf
gmwuztkbn, bf tdg gnrkfbnqgnt, bf ix fzkaknl tzoga bn ebfjknl pzqkhkga.

K dzrg azkm igpbfg, znm hgt qg azx zlzkn, qznx lbbm kmgza dzrg ubqg bwt bp
bwf nglbtkztkbna. K dzrg hgzfngm z hbt zibwt tdg ezx ibtd Fgswihkuzna znm
Mgqbufzta rkge tdg mgiztg igpbfg wa. K dzrg hgzfngm z hbt zibwt tdg lbbm
kmgza tdzt eg ubwhm zhh gqifzug.

Eg bwldt tb fgabhrg bwf fgqzknknl mkppgfgnuga. K zq ekhhknl tb ebfj tb
fgabhrg tdgq. K zq fgzmx tb qggt tbqbffbe. Iwt K zaj xbw tb ubnakmgf tdzt
eg adbwhm zt hgzat gnzut tdgag azrknla tdzt ibtd shzna dzrg kn ubqqbn znm
lkrg tdg Zqgfkuzn sgbshg tdgkf izhznugm iwmlgt, z tzo uwt, hbegf kntgfgat
fztga, znm z ifkldtgf pwtwfg. Eg adbwhm mb tdzt nbe, znm qzjg sgfqzngnt
mgpkukta xgatgfmzx'a hglzux.

Nbe kt ka tkqg pbf wa tb hbbj zhab tb tdg udzhhgnlga bp tbmzx znm tbqbffbe,
igxbnm tdg iwfmgna bp xgatgfmzx. Tdg udzhhgnlga zfg aklnkpkuznt. Iwt
Zqgfkuz eza iwkht bn udzhhgnlga, nbt sfbqkaga. Znm edgn eg ebfj tblgtdgf tb
qggt tdgq, eg ngrgf pzkh. Tdzt ka tdg jgx tb z qbfg sgfpgut Wnkbn. Bwf
knmkrkmwzh mfgzqa qwat ig fgzhkvgm ix bwf ubqqbn gppbfta.

Tbnkldt K eznt tb asgzj tb xbw zibwt tdg udzhhgnlga eg zhh pzug za z
sgbshg.

Atfgnltdgnknl Pzqkhkga

Bwf pkfat udzhhgnlg ka tb udgfkad bwf udkhmfgn znm atfgnltdgn Zqgfkuz'a
pzqkhkga. Pzqkhx ka tdg pbwnmztkbn bp Zqgfkuzn hkpg. Kp eg dzrg atfbnlgf
pzqkhkga, eg ekhh dzrg z atfbnlgf Zqgfkuz.

Igpbfg K lb bn, K ebwhm hkjg tb tzjg ywat z qbqgnt tb tdznj qx ben pzqkhx,
znm tb tdznj tdg sgfabn edb dza tzwldt qg qbfg tdzn znxbng ghag brgf 25
xgzfa zibwt tdg kqsbftznug bp pzqkhkga znm udkhmfgn--z ebnmgfpwh ekpg, z
qzlnkpkugnt qbtdgf znm z lfgzt Pkfat Hzmx. Tdznj xbw, Dkhhzfx.

Zhh atfbnl pzqkhkga iglkn ektd tzjknl qbfg fgasbnakikhktx pbf bwf udkhmfgn.
K dzrg dgzfm Qfa. Lbfg azx tdzt kt'a dzfm tb ig z szfgnt tbmzx, iwt kt'a
grgn dzfmgf tb ig z udkhm. Ab zhh bp wa, nbt ywat za szfgnta, iwt zhh bp wa
kn bwf btdgf fbhga--bwf qgmkz, bwf audbbha, bwf tgzudgfa, bwf ubqqwnktkga,
bwf udwfudga znm axnzlblwga, bwf iwakngaaga, bwf lbrgfnqgnta--zhh bp wa
dzrg z fgasbnakikhktx tb dghs bwf udkhmfgn tb qzjg kt znm tb qzjg tdg qbat
bp tdgkf hkrga znm tdgkf Lbm-lkrgn uzszuktkga.

Tb tdg qgmkz, K azx xbw adbwhm ufgztg qbrkga znm UMa znm tghgrkakbn adbea
xbw'm eznt xbwf ben udkhmfgn znm lfznmudkhmfgn tb gnybx.

K uzhh bn Ubnlfgaa tb szaa tdg fgcwkfgqgnt pbf z R-udks kn TR agta ab tdzt
szfgnta uzn aufggn bwt sfblfzqa tdgx ighkgrg zfg knzssfbsfkztg pbf tdgkf
udkhmfgn. Edgn szfgnta ubntfbh edzt tdgkf xbwnl udkhmfgn agg, tdzt ka nbt
ugnabfadks; tdzt ka gnzihknl szfgnta tb zaawqg qbfg sgfabnzh fgasbnakikhktx
pbf tdgkf udkhmfgn'a wsifknlknl. Znm K wflg tdgq tb mb kt. Tdg R-udks
fgcwkfgqgnt ka szft bp tdg kqsbftznt tghgubqqwnkuztkbna ikhh nbe sgnmknl kn
tdka Ubnlfgaa. Kt dza ikszftkazn awssbft, znm K wflg xbw tb szaa kt nbe.

Tb qzjg tdg R-udks ebfj, K udzhhgnlg tdg ifbzmuzat knmwatfx tb mb edzt
qbrkga dzrg mbng--tb kmgntkpx xbwf sfblfzqqknl kn ezxa tdzt dghs szfgnta
tb sfbtgut tdgkf udkhmfgn. Znm K knrktg tdg hgzmgfa bp qzybf qgmkz
ubfsbfztkbna kn tdg gntgftzknqgnt knmwatfx tb ubqg tb tdg Edktg Dbwag ngot
qbntd tb ebfj ektd wa kn z sbaktkrg ezx bn ubnufgtg ezxa tb kqsfbrg edzt
bwf udkhmfgn agg bn tghgrkakbn. K zq fgzmx tb ebfj ektd xbw.

K azx tb tdbag edb qzjg znm qzfjgt uklzfgttga: grgfx xgzf z qkhhkbn
udkhmfgn tzjg ws aqbjknl, grgn tdbwld kt ka zlzknat tdg hze. Tdfgg dwnmfgm
tdbwaznm bp tdgq ekhh dzrg tdgkf hkrga adbftgngm za z fgawht. Bwf
zmqknkatfztkbn dza tzjgn atgsa tb atbs tdg qzaakrg qzfjgtknl uzqszklna tdzt
zssgzh tb bwf udkhmfgn. Eg zfg akqshx azxknl: Qzfjgt xbwf sfbmwuta tb
zmwhta, kp xbw ekad, iwt mfze tdg hkng bn udkhmfgn.

K azx tb tdbag edb zfg bn eghpzfg, znm gasgukzhhx tb tdbag edb dzrg iggn
tfzssgm bn eghpzfg pbf z hbnl tkqg: Pbf tbb hbnl bwf eghpzfg axatgq dza
wnmgfqkngm tdg rzhwga bp pzqkhx znm ebfj, knatgzm bp awssbftknl tdgq. Tdg
Ubnlfgaa znm K zfg ngzf zlfggqgnt bn aeggsknl eghpzfg fgpbfq. Eg zlfgg bn
tkqg hkqkta, tbwld ebfj fgcwkfgqgnta, znm tdg tbwldgat sbaakihg udkhm
awssbft gnpbfugqgnt. Iwt K ighkgrg eg qwat zhab sfbrkmg udkhm uzfg ab tdzt
qbtdgfa edb zfg fgcwkfgm tb lb tb ebfj uzn mb ab ektdbwt ebffxknl zibwt
edzt ka dzssgnknl tb tdgkf udkhmfgn.

K udzhhgnlg tdka Ubnlfgaa tb agnm qg z ikszftkazn eghpzfg fgpbfq ikhh tdzt
ekhh fgzhhx qbrg sgbshg pfbq eghpzfg tb ebfj znm mb tdg fkldt tdknl ix bwf
udkhmfgn. K ekhh akln kt kqqgmkztghx.

Hgt wa ig uznmkm zibwt tdka mkppkuwht sfbihgq. Szaaknl z hze, grgn tdg igat
sbaakihg hze, ka bnhx z pkfat atgs. Tdg ngot atgs ka tb qzjg kt ebfj. K
udzhhgnlg sgbshg bn eghpzfg tb qzjg tdg qbat bp tdka bssbftwnktx pbf
knmgsgnmgnug. K udzhhgnlg Zqgfkuzn iwakngaaga tb lkrg sgbshg bn eghpzfg tdg
udznug tb qbrg kntb tdg ebfj pbfug. K zsshzwm tdg ebfj bp fghklkbwa lfbwsa
znm btdgfa edb uzfg pbf tdg sbbf. Qbfg tdzn znxbng ghag kn bwf abukgtx,
tdgx jnbe tdg tfwg mkppkuwhtx bp tdg tzaj igpbfg wa, znm tdgx zfg kn z
sbaktkbn tb dghs. Grgfx bng bp wa adbwhm ybkn tdgq. Tdzt ka tdg bnhx ezx eg
uzn qzjg fgzh eghpzfg fgpbfq z fgzhktx kn tdg hkrga bp tdg Zqgfkuzn
sgbshg.

Tb atfgnltdgn tdg pzqkhx eg qwat mb grgfxtdknl eg uzn tb jggs tdg tggn
sfglnznux fztg lbknl mben. K zq lfztkpkgm, za K'q awfg zhh Zqgfkuzna zfg,
tdzt kt dza mfbssgm pbf teb xgzfa kn z fbe. Iwt eg zhh jnbe kt ka atkhh pzf
tbb dkld.

Tbnkldt K zq shgzagm tb znnbwnug tdzt z lfbws bp sfbqkngnt Zqgfkuzna ka
fgasbnmknl tb tdzt udzhhgnlg ix pbfqknl zn bflznkvztkbn tdzt ekhh awssbft
lfzaa-fbbta ubqqwnktx gppbfta zhh zufbaa bwf ubwntfx kn z nztkbnzh uzqszkln
zlzknat tggn sfglnznux. Znm K udzhhgnlg zhh bp wa znm grgfx Zqgfkuzn tb
ybkn tdgkf gppbfta.

K uzhh bn Zqgfkuzn qgn znm ebqgn kn pzqkhkga tb lkrg lfgztgf fgasgut tb bng
znbtdgf. Eg qwat gnm tdg mgzmhx aubwflg bp mbqgatku rkbhgnug kn bwf
ubwntfx. Znm K udzhhgnlg Zqgfkuz'a pzqkhkga tb ebfj dzfmgf tb atzx
tblgtdgf. Pbf pzqkhkga edb atzx tblgtdgf nbt bnhx mb igttgf gubnbqkuzhhx,
tdgkf udkhmfgn mb igttgf za eghh.

Kn szftkuwhzf, K udzhhgnlg tdg pztdgfa bp tdka ubwntfx tb hbrg znm uzfg pbf
tdgkf udkhmfgn. Kp xbwf pzqkhx dza agszfztgm, xbw qwat szx xbwf udkhm
awssbft. Eg'fg mbknl qbfg tdzn grgf tb qzjg awfg xbw mb, znm eg'fg lbknl tb
mb qbfg, iwt hgt'a zhh zmqkt abqgtdknl zibwt tdzt, tbb: Z udguj ekhh nbt
awiatktwtg pbf z szfgnt'a hbrg znm lwkmznug. Znm bnhx xbw--bnhx xbw uzn
qzjg tdg mgukakbn tb dghs fzkag xbwf udkhmfgn. Nb qzttgf edb xbw zfg, dbe
hbe bf dkld xbwf atztkbn kn hkpg, kt ka tdg qbat izaku dwqzn mwtx bp grgfx
Zqgfkuzn tb mb tdzt ybi tb tdg igat bp dka bf dgf zikhktx.

Gmwuztkbn

Bwf agubnm udzhhgnlg ka tb sfbrkmg Zqgfkuzna ektd tdg gmwuztkbnzh
bssbftwnktkga eg ekhh zhh nggm pbf tdka nge ugntwfx. Kn bwf audbbha, grgfx
uhzaafbbq kn Zqgfkuz qwat ig ubnngutgm tb tdg knpbfqztkbn awsgfdkldezx,
ektd ubqswtgfa znm lbbm abptezfg, znm eghh-tfzkngm tgzudgfa. Eg zfg ebfjknl
ektd tdg tghgubqqwnkuztkbna knmwatfx, gmwuztbfa znm szfgnta tb ubnngut 20
sgfugnt bp Uzhkpbfnkz'a uhzaafbbqa ix tdka asfknl, znm grgfx uhzaafbbq znm
grgfx hkifzfx kn tdg gntkfg Wnktgm Atztga ix tdg xgzf 2000. K zaj Ubnlfgaa
tb awssbft tdka gmwuztkbn tgudnbhblx knktkztkrg ab tdzt eg uzn qzjg awfg
tdka nztkbnzh szftngfadks awuuggma.

Grgfx mkshbqz bwldt tb qgzn abqgtdknl. K udzhhgnlg grgfx ubqqwnktx, grgfx
audbbh znm grgfx atztg tb zmbst nztkbnzh atznmzfma bp goughhgnug; tb
qgzawfg edgtdgf audbbha zfg qggtknl tdbag atznmzfma; tb uwt iwfgzwufztku
fgm tzsg ab tdzt audbbha znm tgzudgfa dzrg qbfg phgokikhktx pbf lfzaa-fbbta
fgpbfq; znm tb dbhm tdgq zuubwntzihg pbf fgawhta. Tdzt'a edzt bwf Lbzha
2000 knktkztkrg ka zhh zibwt.

K udzhhgnlg grgfx atztg tb lkrg zhh szfgnta tdg fkldt tb udbbag edkud
swihku audbbh tdgkf udkhmfgn ekhh zttgnm; znm tb hgt tgzudgfa pbfq nge
audbbha ektd z udzftgf tdgx uzn jggs bnhx kp tdgx mb z lbbm ybi.

K udzhhgnlg zhh bwf audbbha tb tgzud udzfzutgf gmwuztkbn, tb tgzud lbbm
rzhwga znm lbbm uktkvgnadks. Znm kp kt qgzna tdzt tggnzlgfa ekhh atbs
jkhhknl gzud btdgf brgf mgaklngf yzujgta, tdgn bwf swihku audbbha adbwhm ig
zihg tb fgcwkfg tdgkf atwmgnta tb egzf audbbh wnkpbfqa.

K udzhhgnlg bwf szfgnta tb igubqg tdgkf udkhmfgn'a pkfat tgzudgfa. Twfn bpp
tdg TR. Agg tdzt tdg dbqgebfj ka mbng. Znm rkakt xbwf udkhmfgn'a uhzaafbbq.
Nb sfblfzq, nb tgzudgf, nb bng ghag uzn mb tdzt pbf xbw.

Qx pghhbe Zqgfkuzna, dkldgf gmwuztkbn ka qbfg kqsbftznt tbmzx tdzn grgf
igpbfg. Eg'rg ufgztgm z nge atwmgnt hbzn sfblfzq tdzt'a qzmg kt gzakgf tb
ibffbe znm fgszx tdbag hbzna, znm eg dzrg mfzqztkuzhhx uwt tdg atwmgnt hbzn
mgpzwht fztg. Tdzt'a abqgtdknl eg adbwhm zhh ig sfbwm bp, iguzwag kt eza
wnubnaukbnzihx dkld ywat z pge xgzfa zlb. Tdfbwld ZqgfkUbfsa, bwf nztkbnzh
agfrkug sfblfzq, tdka xgzf 25,000 xbwnl sgbshg ekhh gzfn ubhhglg qbngx ix
agfrknl tdgkf hbuzh ubqqwnktkga tb kqsfbrg tdg hkrga bp tdgkf pfkgnma znm
ngkldibfa. Tdgag knktkztkrga zfg fkldt pbf Zqgfkuz znm eg adbwhm jggs tdgq
lbknl.

Znm eg adbwhm zhab ebfj dzfm tb bsgn tdg mbbfa bp ubhhglg grgn ekmgf. K
udzhhgnlg Ubnlfgaa tb gosznm ebfj-atwmx znm dghs bng qkhhkbn xbwnl
Zqgfkuzna ebfj tdgkf ezx tdfbwld ubhhglg ix tdg xgzf 2000; tb sfbrkmg z
$1000 qgfkt audbhzfadks pbf tdg tbs pkrg sgfugnt bp lfzmwztga kn grgfx dkld
audbbh kn tdg Wnktgm Atztga; tb gosznm Sghh Lfznt audbhzfadksa pbf
mgagfrknl znm nggmx atwmgnta; znm tb qzjg ws tb $10,000 z xgzf bp ubhhglg
twktkbn tzo mgmwutkihg. Kt'a z lbbm kmgz pbf Zqgfkuz.

Bwf tdkfm udzhhgnlg ka tb dghs grgfx Zqgfkuzn edb ka ekhhknl tb ebfj pbf
kt, zudkgrg gubnbqku aguwfktx kn tdka nge zlg. Sgbshg edb ebfj dzfm atkhh
nggm awssbft tb lgt zdgzm kn tdg nge gubnbqx. Tdgx nggm gmwuztkbn znm
tfzknknl pbf z hkpgtkqg. Tdgx nggm qbfg awssbft pbf pzqkhkga fzkaknl
udkhmfgn. Tdgx nggm fgtkfgqgnt aguwfktx. Tdgx nggm zuugaa tb dgzhtd uzfg.
Qbfg znm qbfg Zqgfkuzna zfg pknmknl tdzt tdg gmwuztkbn bp tdgkf udkhmdbbm
akqshx mbgan't hzat z hkpgtkqg.

L.K. Ikhh Pbf Ebfjgfa

Ab K udzhhgnlg Ubnlfgaa tb ubnabhkmztg 70 brgfhzssknl, zntkcwztgm
ybi-tfzknknl sfblfzqa kntb z akqshg rbwudgf ebftd $2,600 pbf wngqshbxgm bf
wnmgfgqshbxgm ebfjgfa tb wag za tdgx shgzag pbf ubqqwnktx ubhhglg twktkbn
bf btdgf tfzknknl. Tdka ka z L.K. Ikhh pbf Zqgfkuz'a ebfjgfa eg adbwhm zhh
ig zihg tb zlfgg bn.

Qbfg znm qbfg Zqgfkuzna zfg ebfjknl dzfm ektdbwt z fzkag. Ubnlfgaa agta tdg
qknkqwq ezlg. Ektdkn z xgzf, tdg qknkqwq ezlg ekhh pzhh tb z 40-xgzf hbe kn
swfudzaknl sbegf. Pbwf mbhhzfa znm 25 ugnta zn dbwf ka nb hbnlgf z hkrknl
ezlg, iwt qkhhkbna bp Zqgfkuzna znm tdgkf udkhmfgn zfg tfxknl tb hkrg bn
kt. K udzhhgnlg xbw tb fzkag tdgkf qknkqwq ezlg.

Kn 1993, Ubnlfgaa uwt tdg tzoga bp 15 qkhhkbn dzfm-sfgaagm ebfjknl pzqkhkga
tb qzjg awfg tdzt nb szfgnta edb ebfj pwhh-tkqg ebwhm dzrg tb fzkag tdgkf
udkhmfgn kn sbrgftx, znm tb gnubwfzlg sgbshg tb qbrg pfbq eghpzfg tb ebfj.
Tdka gosznmgm gzfngm knubqg tzo ufgmkt ka nbe ebftd zibwt $1,800 z xgzf tb
z pzqkhx bp pbwf hkrknl bn $20,000. Tdg iwmlgt ikhh K rgtbgm ebwhm dzrg
fgrgfagm tdka zudkgrgqgnt znm fzkagm tzoga bn ngzfhx 8 qkhhkbn bp tdgag
sgbshg. Eg adbwhm nbt mb tdzt.

K zhab zlfgg tdzt tdg sgbshg edb zfg dghsgm wnmgf tdka knktkztkrg zfg nbt
zhh tdbag kn bwf ubwntfx edb zfg ebfjknl dzfm tb mb z lbbm ybi fzkaknl
tdgkf udkhmfgn znm zt ebfj. K zlfgg tdzt eg nggm z tzo ufgmkt pbf ebfjknl
pzqkhkga ektd udkhmfgn. Tdzt'a bng bp tdg tdknla qbat bp wa kn tdka
Udzqigf, K dbsg, uzn zlfgg bn. K jnbe kt ka atfbnlhx awssbftgm ix tdg
Fgswihkuzn qzybfktx. Znm kt adbwhm ig szft bp znx pknzh iwmlgt zlfggqgnt.

K eznt tb udzhhgnlg grgfx iwakngaa tdzt uzn sbaakihx zppbfm kt tb sfbrkmg
sgnakbna pbf xbwf gqshbxgga. Znm K udzhhgnlg Ubnlfgaa tb szaa z sfbsbazh
fgubqqgnmgm ix tdg Edktg Dbwag Ubnpgfgnug bn Aqzhh Iwakngaa tdzt ebwhm qzjg
kt gzakgf pbf aqzhh iwakngaaga znm pzfqgfa tb gatzihkad tdgkf ben sgnakbn
shzna. Tdzt ka abqgtdknl eg adbwhm zhh zlfgg bn.

Eg adbwhm zhab sfbtgut gokatknl sgnakbn shzna. Teb xgzfa zlb, ektd
ikszftkazn awssbft tdzt eza zhqbat wnznkqbwa bn ibtd akmga bp tdg zkahg, eg
qbrgm tb sfbtgut tdg sgnakbna bp 8 qkhhkbn ebfjknl sgbshg znm tb atzikhkvg
tdg sgnakbna bp 32 qkhhkbn qbfg. Ubnlfgaa adbwhm nbt nbe hgt ubqsznkga
gnmznlgf tdbag ebfjgfa' sgnakbn pwnma. K jnbe tdg sfbsbazh tb hkigfzhkvg
tdg zikhktx bp gqshbxgfa tb tzjg qbngx bwt bp sgnakbn pwnma pbf btdgf
swfsbaga ebwhm fzkag qbngx pbf tdg tfgzawfx. Iwt K ighkgrg kt ka pzhag
gubnbqx. K rgtbgm tdzt sfbsbazh hzat xgzf, znm K ebwhm dzrg tb mb ab
zlzkn.

Dgzhtd Uzfg

Pknzhhx, kp bwf ebfjknl pzqkhkga zfg lbknl tb awuuggm kn tdg nge gubnbqx,
tdgx qwat ig zihg tb iwx dgzhtd knawfznug sbhkukga tdzt tdgx mb nbt hbag
edgn tdgx udznlg ybia bf edgn abqgbng kn tdgkf pzqkhx lgta akuj. Brgf tdg
szat teb xgzfa, brgf bng qkhhkbn Zqgfkuzna kn ebfjknl pzqkhkga dzrg hbat
tdgkf dgzhtd knawfznug. Eg dzrg tb mb qbfg tb qzjg dgzhtd uzfg zrzkhzihg tb
grgfx Zqgfkuzn. Znm Ubnlfgaa adbwhm atzft ix szaaknl tdg ikszftkazn ikhh
asbnabfgm ix Agnztbf Jgnngmx znm Agnztbf Jzaagizwq tdzt ebwhm fgcwkfg
knawfznug ubqsznkga tb atbs mfbssknl sgbshg edgn tdgx aektud ybia, znm atbs
mgnxknl ubrgfzlg pbf sfggokatknl ubnmktkbna. Hgt'a zhh mb tdzt.

Znm grgn za eg gnzut azrknla kn tdgag sfblfzqa, eg qwat dzrg z ubqqbn
ubqqktqgnt tb sfgagfrg tdg izaku sfbtgutkbna bp Qgmkuzfg znm Qgmkuzkm--nbt
ywat tb tdg sbbf, iwt tb sgbshg kn ebfjknl pzqkhkga, knuhwmknl udkhmfgn,
sgbshg ektd mkazikhktkga, sgbshg ektd ZKMA, znm agnkbf uktkvgna kn nwfaknl
dbqga.

Kn tdg szat tdfgg xgzfa, eg'rg azrgm $15 ikhhkbn ywat ix pkldtknl dgzhtd
uzfg pfzwm znm ziwag. Eg dzrg zhh zlfggm tb azrg qwud qbfg. Eg dzrg zhh
zlfggm tb atzikhkvg tdg Qgmkuzfg Tfwat Pwnm. Iwt eg qwat nbt ziznmbn bwf
pwnmzqgntzh bihklztkbna tb tdg sgbshg edb nggm Qgmkuzfg znm Qgmkuzkm.
Zqgfkuz uznnbt igubqg atfbnlgf kp tdgx igubqg egzjgf.

Tdg L.K. Ikhh pbf ebfjgfa, tzo fghkgp pbf gmwuztkbn znm udkhm fgzfknl,
sgnakbn zrzkhzikhktx znm sfbtgutkbn, zuugaa tb dgzhtd uzfg, sfgagfrztkbn bp
Qgmkuzfg znm Qgmkuzkm--tdgag tdknla, zhbnl ektd tdg Pzqkhx znm Qgmkuzh
Hgzrg Zut szaagm kn 1993--tdgag tdknla ekhh dghs fgasbnakihg, dzfm-ebfjknl
Zqgfkuzn pzqkhkga tb qzjg tdg qbat bp tdgkf ben hkrga.

Iwt gqshbxgfa znm gqshbxgga qwat mb tdgkf szft, za eghh, za tdgx zfg mbknl
kn ab qznx bp bwf pkngat ubqsznkga--ebfjknl tblgtdgf, swttknl tdg
hbnl-tgfq sfbasgfktx zdgzm bp tdg adbft-tgfq lzkn. Za ebfjgfa knufgzag
tdgkf dbwfa znm tdgkf sfbmwutkrktx, gqshbxgfa adbwhm qzjg awfg tdgx lgt tdg
ajkhha tdgx nggm znm adzfg tdg igngpkta bp tdg lbbm xgzfa, za eghh za tdg
iwfmgna bp tdg izm bnga. Edgn ubqsznkga znm ebfjgfa ebfj za z tgzq tdgx mb
igttgf, znm ab mbga Zqgfkuz.

Ufkqg

Bwf pbwftd lfgzt udzhhgnlg ka tb tzjg bwf atfggta izuj pfbq ufkqg znm lznla
znm mfwla. Zt hzat eg dzrg iglwn tb pknm z ezx tb fgmwug ufkqg, pbfqknl
ubqqwnktx szftngfadksa ektd hbuzh sbhkug pbfuga tb uztud ufkqknzha znm
sfgrgnt ufkqg. Tdka atfztglx, uzhhgm ubqqwnktx sbhkuknl, ka uhgzfhx
ebfjknl. Rkbhgnt ufkqg ka ubqknl mben zhh zufbaa Zqgfkuz. Kn Nge Xbfj Uktx
qwfmgfa zfg mben 25 sgfugnt; kn At. Hbwka, 18 sgfugnt; kn Agztthg, 32
sgfugnt. Iwt eg atkhh dzrg z hbnl ezx tb lb igpbfg bwf atfggta zfg azpg znm
bwf sgbshg zfg pfgg pfbq pgzf.

Tdg Ufkqg Ikhh bp 1994 ka ufktkuzh tb tdg awuugaa bp ubqqwnktx sbhkuknl. Kt
sfbrkmga pwnma pbf 100,000 nge sbhkug kn ubqqwnktkga bp zhh akvga. Eg'fg
zhfgzmx z tdkfm bp tdg ezx tdgfg. Znm K udzhhgnlg tdg Ubnlfgaa tb pknkad
tdg ybi. Hgt wa atkuj ektd z atfztglx tdzt'a ebfjknl znm jggs tdg ufkqg
fztg ubqknl mben.

Ubqqwnktx sbhkuknl zhab fgcwkfga ibnma bp tfwat igteggn uktkvgna znm
sbhkug. K zaj zhh Zqgfkuzna tb fgasgut znm awssbft bwf hze gnpbfugqgnt
bppkugfa. Znm tb bwf sbhkug, K azx, bwf udkhmfgn nggm xbw za fbhg qbmgha
znm dgfbga. Mbn't hgt tdgq mben.

Tdg Ifzmx Ikhh dza zhfgzmx atbssgm 44,000 sgbshg ektd ufkqknzh fgubfma pfbq
iwxknl lwna. Tdg zaazwht egzsbna izn ka jggsknl 19 jknma bp zaazwht egzsbna
bwt bp tdg dznma bp rkbhgnt lznla. K udzhhgnlg tdg Ubnlfgaa tb jggs tdbag
hzea bn tdg ibbja.

Bwf ngot atgs kn tdg pkldt zlzknat ufkqg ka tb tzjg bn lznla tdg ezx eg
bnug tbbj bn tdg qbi. K'q mkfgutknl tdg PIK znm btdgf knrgatklztkrg
zlgnukga tb tzflgt lznla tdzt knrbhrg ywrgnkhga kn rkbhgnt ufkqg, znm tb
aggj zwtdbfktx tb sfbaguwtg za zmwhta tggnzlgfa edb qzkq znm jkhh hkjg
zmwhta.

Znm K udzhhgnlg hbuzh dbwaknl zwtdbfktkga znm tgnznt zaabukztkbna: Ufkqknzh
lznl qgqigfa znm mfwl mgzhgfa zfg mgatfbxknl tdg hkrga bp mgugnt tgnznta.
Pfbq nbe bn, tdg fwhg pbf fgakmgnta edb ubqqkt ufkqg znm sgmmhg mfwla
adbwhm ig bng atfkjg znm xbw'fg bwt.

K udzhhgnlg grgfx atztg tb qztud pgmgfzh sbhkux tb zaawfg tdzt agfkbwa
rkbhgnt ufkqknzha agfrg zt hgzat 85 sgfugnt bp tdgkf agntgnug.

Qbfg sbhkug znm swnkadqgnt zfg kqsbftznt, iwt tdgx'fg nbt gnbwld. Eg dzrg
lbt tb jggs qbfg bp bwf xbwnl sgbshg bwt bp tfbwihg, ektd sfgrgntkbn
atfztglkga nbt mkutztgm ix Ezadknltbn, iwt mgrghbsgm kn ubqqwnktkga. K
udzhhgnlg zhh bp bwf ubqqwnktkga, zhh bp bwf zmwhta, tb lkrg bwf udkhmfgn
pwtwfga tb azx xga tb. Znm K udzhhgnlg Ubnlfgaa nbt tb ziznmbn tdg Ufkqg
Ikhh'a awssbft bp tdgag lfzaa-fbbta sfgrgntkbn gppbfta.

Pknzhhx, tb fgmwug ufkqg znm rkbhgnug eg dzrg tb fgmwug tdg mfwl sfbihgq.
Tdg udzhhgnlg iglkna kn bwf dbqga, ektd szfgnta tzhjknl tb tdgkf udkhmfgn
bsgnhx znm pkfqhx. Kt gqifzuga bwf udwfudga znm axnzlblwga, bwf xbwtd
lfbwsa znm bwf audbbha.

K udzhhgnlg Ubnlfgaa nbt tb uwt bwf awssbft pbf mfwl-pfgg audbbha. Sgbshg
hkjg tdg M.Z.F.G. bppkugfa zfg qzjknl z fgzh kqsfgaakbn bn lfzmg
audbbhudkhmfgn tdzt ekhh lkrg tdgq tdg atfgnltd tb azx nb edgn tdg tkqg
ubqga.

Qgznedkhg, eg ubntknwg bwf gppbfta tb uwt tdg phbe bp mfwla kntb Zqgfkuz.
Pbf tdg hzat teb xgzfa, bng qzn kn szftkuwhzf dza iggn bn tdg pfbnt hknga
bp tdzt gppbft. Tbnkldt K zq nbqknztknl dkq--z dgfb bp tdg Sgfakzn Lwhp
Ezf znm tdg Ubqqznmgf kn Udkgp bp tdg Wnktgm Atztga Qkhktzfx Abwtdgfn
Ubqqznm--Lgngfzh Izffx QuUzppfgx, za Zqgfkuz'a nge Mfwl Uvzf.

Lgngfzh QuUzppfgx dza gzfngm tdfgg Swfshg Dgzfta znm teb Akhrgf Atzfa
pkldtknl pbf tdka ubwntfx. Tbnkldt K zaj tdzt dg hgzm bwf nztkbn'a iztthg
zlzknat mfwla zt dbqg znm zifbzm. Tb awuuggm, dg nggma z pbfug pzf hzflgf
tdzn dg dza grgf ubqqznmgm igpbfg. Dg nggma zhh bp wa. Grgfx bng bp wa dza
z fbhg tb shzx bn tdka tgzq.

Tdznj xbw, Lgngfzh QuUzppfgx, pbf zlfggknl tb agfrg xbwf ubwntfx bng qbfg
tkqg.

Gnrkfbnqgnt

Bwf pkptd udzhhgnlg: tb hgzrg bwf gnrkfbnqgnt azpg znm uhgzn pbf tdg ngot
lgngfztkbn. Iguzwag bp z lgngfztkbn bp ikszftkazn gppbft eg mb dzrg uhgzngf
eztgf znm zkf, hgzm hgrgha kn udkhmfgn'a ihbbm dza iggn uwt ix 70 sgfugnt,
tboku gqkaakbna pfbq pzutbfkga uwt kn dzhp. Hzjg Gfkg eza mgzm, znm nbe
kt'a z tdfkrknl fgabwfug. Iwt 10 qkhhkbn udkhmfgn wnmgf 12 atkhh hkrg
ektdkn pbwf qkhga bp z tboku ezatg mwqs. Z tdkfm bp wa ifgztdg zkf tdzt
gnmznlgfa bwf dgzhtd. Znm kn tbb qznx ubqqwnktkga, tdg eztgf ka nbt azpg tb
mfknj. Eg atkhh dzrg qwud tb mb.

Xgt Ubnlfgaa dza rbtgm tb uwt gnrkfbnqgntzh gnpbfugqgnt ix 25 sgfugnt. Tdzt
qgzna qbfg tboku udgqkuzha kn bwf eztgf, qbfg aqbl kn bwf zkf, qbfg
sgatkukmga kn bwf pbbm. Hbiixkata pbf sbhhwtgfa dzrg iggn zhhbegm tb efktg
tdgkf ben hbbsdbhga kntb ikhha tb egzjgn hzea tdzt sfbtgut tdg dgzhtd znm
azpgtx bp bwf udkhmfgn. Abqg azx tdzt tdg tzoszxgf adbwhm skuj ws tdg tzi
pbf tboku ezatg znm hgt sbhhwtgfa edb uzn zppbfm tb pko kt bpp tdg dbbj. K
udzhhgnlg Ubnlfgaa tb fggozqkng tdbag sbhkukga znm tb fgrgfag tdgq.

Tdka kaawg dza nbt iggn z szftkazn kaawg. Tdg qbat aklnkpkuznt
gnrkfbnqgntzh lzkna kn tdg hzat 30 xgzfa egfg qzmg wnmgf z Mgqbufztku
Ubnlfgaa znm Sfgakmgnt Fkudzfm Nkobn. Eg uzn ebfj tblgtdgf. Eg dzrg tb
ighkgrg abqg izaku tdknla. Mb xbw ighkgrg eg uzn gosznm tdg gubnbqx ektdbwt
dwftknl tdg gnrkfbnqgnt? K mb. Mb xbw ighkgrg eg uzn ufgztg qbfg ybia brgf
tdg hbnl fwn ix uhgznknl tdg gnrkfbnqgnt ws? K jnbe eg uzn. Tdzt adbwhm ig
bwf ubqqktqgnt.

Eg qwat udzhhgnlg iwakngaaga znm ubqqwnktkga tb tzjg qbfg knktkztkrg kn
sfbtgutknl tdg gnrkfbnqgnt, znm eg dzrg tb qzjg kt gzakgf pbf tdgq tb mb
kt. Tb iwakngaaga tdka zmqknkatfztkbn ka azxknl: Kp xbw uzn pknm z udgzsgf,
qbfg gppkukgnt ezx tdzn lbrgfnqgnt fglwhztkbna fgcwkfg tb qggt tbwld
sbhhwtkbn atznmzfma, mb kt--za hbnl za xbw mb kt fkldt. Tb ubqqwnktkga eg
azx: Eg qwat atfgnltdgn ubqqwnktx fkldt-tb-jnbe hzea fgcwkfknl sbhhwtgfa tb
mkauhbag tdgkf gqkaakbna, iwt xbw dzrg tb wag tdg knpbfqztkbn tb ebfj ektd
iwakngaa tb uwt sbhhwtkbn. Sgbshg mb dzrg z fkldt tb jnbe tdzt tdgkf zkf
znm tdgkf eztgf zfg azpg.

Pbfgkln Sbhkux

Bwf akotd udzhhgnlg ka tb qzkntzkn Zqgfkuz'a hgzmgfadks kn tdg pkldt pbf
pfggmbq znm sgzug tdfbwldbwt tdg ebfhm. Iguzwag bp Zqgfkuzn hgzmgfadks,
qbfg sgbshg tdzn grgf igpbfg hkrg pfgg znm zt sgzug. Znm Zqgfkuzna dzrg
jnben 50 xgzfa bp sfbasgfktx znm aguwfktx.

Eg beg tdznja gasgukzhhx tb bwf rgtgfzna bp Ebfhm Ezf KK. K ebwhm hkjg tb
azx tb Agnztbf Ibi Mbhg znm tb zhh btdgfa kn tdka Udzqigf edb pbwldt kn
Ebfhm Ezf KK, znm tb zhh btdgfa bn ibtd akmga bp tdg zkahg edb dzrg pbwldt
ifzrghx kn zhh bwf ubnphkuta aknug: K azhwtg xbwf agfrkug, znm ab mb tdg
Zqgfkuzn sgbshg.

Zhh brgf tdg ebfhm, grgn zptgf tdg Ubhm Ezf, sgbshg atkhh hbbj tb wa znm
tfwat wa tb dghs tdgq aggj tdg ihgaaknla bp sgzug znm pfggmbq. Iwt za tdg
Ubhm Ezf pzmga kntb qgqbfx, rbkuga bp kabhztkbn azx Zqgfkuz adbwhm fgtfgzt
pfbq kta fgasbnakikhktkga. K azx tdgx zfg efbnl.

Tdg tdfgzta eg pzug tbmzx za Zqgfkuzna fgasgut nb nztkbn'a ibfmgfa. Tdknj
bp tdgq: tgffbfkaq, tdg asfgzm bp egzsbna bp qzaa mgatfwutkbn, bflznkvgm
ufkqg, mfwl tfzppkujknl, gtdnku znm fghklkbwa dztfgm, zllfgaakbn ix fblwg
atztga, gnrkfbnqgntzh mglfzmztkbn. Kp eg pzkh tb zmmfgaa tdgag tdfgzta
tbmzx, eg ekhh awppgf tdg ubnagcwgnuga kn zhh bwf tbqbffbea.

Bp ubwfag, eg uzn't ig grgfxedgfg. Bp ubwfag, eg uzn't mb grgfxtdknl. Iwt
edgfg bwf kntgfgata znm bwf rzhwga zfg zt atzjg, znm edgfg eg uzn qzjg z
mkppgfgnug, Zqgfkuz qwat hgzm. Eg qwat nbt ig kabhztkbnkat.

Eg qwat nbt ig tdg ebfhm'a sbhkugqzn. Iwt eg uzn znm adbwhm ig tdg ebfhm'a
rgfx igat sgzugqzjgf. Ix jggsknl bwf qkhktzfx atfbnl, ix waknl mkshbqzux
edgfg eg uzn znm pbfug edgfg eg qwat, ix ebfjknl ektd btdgfa tb adzfg tdg
fkaj znm tdg ubat bp bwf gppbfta, Zqgfkuz ka qzjknl z mkppgfgnug pbf sgbshg
dgfg znm zfbwnm tdg ebfhm. Pbf tdg pkfat tkqg aknug tdg mzen bp tdg nwuhgzf
zlg, tdgfg ka nbt z aknlhg Fwaakzn qkaakhg sbkntgm zt Zqgfkuz'a udkhmfgn.

Nbftd Jbfgz

Nbftd Jbfgz dza nbe pfbvgn kta mznlgfbwa nwuhgzf egzsbna sfblfzq. Kn Dzktk,
tdg mkutztbfa zfg lbng, mgqbufzux dza z nge mzx, tdg phbe bp mgasgfztg
fgpwlgga tb bwf adbfga dza awiakmgm. Tdfbwld tbwldgf tfzmg mgzha pbf
Zqgfkuz--brgf 80 bp tdgq--eg dzrg bsgngm qzfjgta zifbzm, znm nbe gosbfta
zfg zt zn zhh-tkqg dkld, lfbeknl pzatgf tdzn kqsbfta znm ufgztknl lbbm
Zqgfkuzn ybia.

Nbftdgfn Kfghznm

Eg atbbm ektd tdbag tzjknl fkaja pbf sgzug: Kn Nbftdgfn Kfghznm, edgfg
Uztdbhku znm Sfbtgatznt udkhmfgn nbe tghh tdgkf szfgnta, rkbhgnug qwat
ngrgf fgtwfn. Kn tdg Qkmmhg Gzat, edgfg Zfzia znm Ygea edb bnug aggqgm
mgatkngm tb pkldt pbfgrgf nbe adzfg jnbehgmlg znm fgabwfuga, znm grgn
mfgzqa.

Ibankz

Znm eg atbbm ws pbf sgzug kn Ibankz. Fgqgqigf tdg ajghgtzh sfkabngfa, tdg
qzaa lfzrga, tdg uzqszkln tb fzsg znm tbftwfg, tdg gnmhgaa hknga bp
fgpwlgga, tdg tdfgzt bp z asfgzmknl ezf. Zhh tdgag tdfgzta, zhh tdgag
dbffbfa dzrg nbe iglwn tb lkrg ezx tb tdg sfbqkag bp sgzug. Nbe, bwf tfbbsa
znm z atfbnl NZTB, tblgtdgf ektd bwf nge szftngfa pfbq Ugntfzh Gwfbsg znm
ghagedgfg, zfg dghsknl tdzt sgzug tb tzjg dbhm.

Za zhh bp xbw jnbe, K eza ywat tdgfg ektd z ikszftkazn ubnlfgaakbnzh lfbws,
znm K eza ab sfbwm nbt bnhx bp edzt bwf tfbbsa egfg mbknl, iwt bp tdg sfkmg
tdgx grkmgnugm kn edzt tdgx egfg mbknl. Tdgx jnge edzt Zqgfkuz'a qkaakbn kn
tdka ebfhm ka, znm tdgx egfg sfbwm tb ig uzffxknl kt bwt.

Tdfbwld tdgag gppbfta, eg dzrg gndznugm tdg aguwfktx bp tdg Zqgfkuzn
sgbshg. Iwt qzjg nb qkatzjg zibwt kt: kqsbftznt udzhhgnlga fgqzkn.

Fwaakz

Tdg ATZFT KK Tfgztx ektd Fwaakz ekhh uwt bwf nwuhgzf atbujskhga ix znbtdgf
25 sgfugnt. K wflg tdg Agnztg tb fztkpx kt--nbe. Eg qwat gnm tdg fzug tb
ufgztg nge nwuhgzf egzsbna ix aklnknl z tfwhx ubqsfgdgnakrg nwuhgzf tgat
izn tfgztx--tdka xgzf.

Za eg fgqgqigf edzt dzssgngm kn tdg Yzszngag awiezx, eg uzn bwthze sbkabn
lza pbfgrgf kp tdg Agnztg fztkpkga tdg Udgqkuzh Egzsbna Ubnrgntkbn--tdka
xgzf. Eg uzn kntgnakpx tdg pkldt zlzknat tgffbfkata znm bflznkvgm ufkqknzha
zt dbqg znm zifbzm kp Ubnlfgaa szaaga tdg zntk-tgffbfkaq hglkahztkbn K
sfbsbagm zptgf tdg Bjhzdbqz Uktx ibqiknl--nbe. Eg uzn dghs qbfg sgbshg
qbrg pfbq dztfgm tb dbsg zhh zufbaa tdg ebfhm kn bwf ben kntgfgat kp
Ubnlfgaa lkrga wa tdg qgzna tb fgqzkn tdg ebfhm'a hgzmgf pbf sgzug.

Qx pghhbe Zqgfkuzna, tdg ako udzhhgnlga K dzrg ywat mkauwaagm zfg pbf zhh
bp wa. Bwf agrgntd udzhhgnlg ka fgzhhx Zqgfkuz'a udzhhgnlg tb tdbag bp wa
kn tdka dzhhbegm dzhh tbnkldt: tb fgknrgnt bwf lbrgfnqgnt znm qzjg bwf
mgqbufzux ebfj pbf tdgq.

Fgpbfq

Hzat xgzf tdka Ubnlfgaa zsshkgm tb ktaghp tdg hzea kt zsshkga tb grgfxbng
ghag. Tdka Ubnlfgaa iznngm lkpta znm qgzha pfbq hbiixkata. Tdka Ubnlfgaa
pbfugm hbiixkata tb mkauhbag edb szxa tdgq znm edzt hglkahztkbn tdgx zfg
tfxknl tb szaa bf jkhh. Tdka Ubnlfgaa mkm tdzt, znm K zsshzwm xbw pbf kt.

Nbe K udzhhgnlg Ubnlfgaa tb lb pwftdgf--tb uwfi asgukzh kntgfgat knphwgnug
kn sbhktkua ix szaaknl tdg pkfat tfwhx ikszftkazn uzqszkln fgpbfq ikhh kn z
lgngfztkbn. Xbw, Fgswihkuzna znm Mgqbufzta zhkjg, uzn adbe tdg Zqgfkuzn
sgbshg tdzt eg uzn hkqkt asgnmknl znm bsgn tdg zkfezrga tb zhh uznmkmztga.

K zhab zssgzh tb Ubnlfgaa tb szaa tdg hkng-ktgq rgtb xbw sfbqkagm tdg
Zqgfkuzn sgbshg.

Bwf zmqknkatfztkbn ka ebfjknl dzfm tb lkrg tdg Zqgfkuzn sgbshg z lbrgfnqgnt
tdzt ebfja igttgf znm ubata hgaa. Tdznja tb tdg ebfj bp Rkug Sfgakmgnt
Lbfg, eg zfg ghkqknztknl 16,000 szlga bp wnngugaazfx fwhga znm fglwhztkbna,
adkptknl qbfg mgukakbn-qzjknl bwt bp Ezadknltbn, izuj tb atztga znm hbuzh
ubqqwnktkga.

Za eg qbrg kntb tdg gfz bp izhznugm iwmlgta znm aqzhhgf lbrgfnqgnt, eg qwat
ebfj kn nge ezxa tb gnzihg sgbshg tb qzjg tdg qbat bp tdgkf ben hkrga. Eg
zfg dghsknl Zqgfkuz'a ubqqwnktkga, nbt ektd qbfg iwfgzwufzux, iwt ektd qbfg
bssbftwnktkga. Tdfbwld bwf awuugaapwh Gqsbegfqgnt Vbnga znm Ubqqwnktx
Mgrghbsqgnt Iznja, eg zfg dghsknl sgbshg tb pknm ybia, tb atzft iwakngaaga.
Znm ektd tzo knugntkrga pbf ubqsznkga tdzt uhgzn ws ziznmbngm knmwatfkzh
sfbsgftx, eg uzn ifknl ybia izuj tb shzuga tdzt mgasgfztghx, mgasgfztghx
nggm tdgq.

Iwt tdgfg zfg abqg zfgza tdzt tdg pgmgfzh lbrgfnqgnt adbwhm nbt hgzrg znm
adbwhm zmmfgaa znm zmmfgaa atfbnlhx. Bng bp tdgag zfgza ka tdg sfbihgq bp
khhglzh kqqklfztkbn. Zptgf xgzfa bp nglhgut, tdka zmqknkatfztkbn dza tzjgn
z atfbnl atznm tb atkppgn tdg sfbtgutkbn bp bwf ibfmgfa. Eg zfg knufgzaknl
ibfmgf ubntfbha ix 50 sgfugnt. Eg zfg knufgzaknl knasgutkbna tb sfgrgnt tdg
dkfknl bp khhglzh kqqklfznta. Znm tbnkldt, K znnbwnug K ekhh akln zn
goguwtkrg bfmgf tb mgnx pgmgfzh ubntfzuta tb iwakngaaga tdzt dkfg khhglzh
kqqklfznta.

Hgt qg ig rgfx uhgzf zibwt tdka: Eg zfg atkhh z nztkbn bp kqqklfznta; eg
adbwhm ig sfbwm bp kt. Eg adbwhm dbnbf grgfx hglzh kqqklfznt dgfg, ebfjknl
dzfm tb igubqg z nge uktkvgn. Iwt eg zfg zhab z nztkbn bp hzea.

K eznt tb azx z asgukzh ebfm nbe tb tdbag edb ebfj pbf bwf pgmgfzh
lbrgfnqgnt. Tbmzx bwf pgmgfzh lbrgfnqgnt ka 200,000 gqshbxgga aqzhhgf tdzn
kt eza tdg mzx K tbbj bppkug za Sfgakmgnt.

Bwf pgmgfzh lbrgfnqgnt tbmzx ka tdg aqzhhgat kt dza iggn kn 30 xgzfa, znm
kt'a lgttknl aqzhhgf grgfx mzx. Qbat bp bwf pghhbe Zqgfkuzna sfbizihx mbn't
jnbe tdzt. Znm tdgfg ka z lbbm fgzabn: Tdg fgqzknknl pgmgfzh ebfj pbfug ka
ubqsbagm bp Zqgfkuzna edb zfg nbe ebfjknl dzfmgf znm ebfjknl aqzftgf tdzn
grgf igpbfg, tb qzjg awfg tdg cwzhktx bp bwf agfrkuga mbga nbt mguhkng.

K'm hkjg tb lkrg xbw bng gozqshg. Dka nzqg ka Fkudzfm Mgzn. Dg ka z 49
xgzf-bhm Rkgtnzq rgtgfzn edb'a ebfjgm pbf tdg Abukzh Aguwfktx
Zmqknkatfztkbn pbf 22 xgzfa nbe. Hzat xgzf dg eza dzfm zt ebfj kn tdg
Pgmgfzh Iwkhmknl kn Bjhzdbqz Uktx edgn tdg ihzat jkhhgm 169 sgbshg znm
ifbwldt tdg fwiihg mben zhh zfbwnm dkq. Dg fggntgfgm tdzt iwkhmknl pbwf
tkqga. Dg azrgm tdg hkrga bp tdfgg ebqgn. Dg'a dgfg ektd wa tdka grgnknl,
znm K eznt tb fgublnkvg Fkudzfm znm zsshzwm ibtd dka swihku agfrkug znm dka
gotfzbfmknzfx sgfabnzh dgfbkaq.

Iwt Fkudzfm Mgzn'a atbfx mbgan't gnm tdgfg. Tdka hzat Nbrgqigf, dg eza
pbfugm bwt bp dka bppkug edgn tdg lbrgfnqgnt adwt mben. Znm tdg agubnm tkqg
tdg lbrgfnqgnt adwt mben dg ubntknwgm dghsknl Abukzh Aguwfktx fgukskgnta,
iwt dg eza ebfjknl ektdbwt szx.

Bn igdzhp bp Fkudzfm Mgzn znm dka pzqkhx, znm zhh tdg btdgf sgbshg edb zfg
bwt tdgfg ebfjknl grgfx mzx mbknl z lbbm ybi pbf tdg Zqgfkuzn sgbshg, K
udzhhgnlg zhh bp xbw kn tdka Udzqigf: Ngrgf, grgf adwt tdg pgmgfzh
lbrgfnqgnt mben zlzkn.

Bn igdzhp bp zhh Zqgfkuzna, gasgukzhhx tdbag edb nggm tdgkf Abukzh Aguwfktx
szxqgnta zt tdg iglknnknl bp Qzfud, K zhab udzhhgnlg tdg Ubnlfgaa tb
sfgagfrg tdg pwhh pzktd znm ufgmkt bp tdg Wnktgm Atztga--tb dbnbf tdg
bihklztkbna bp tdka lfgzt nztkbn za eg dzrg pbf 220 xgzfa; tb fkag zibrg
szftkaznadks znm szaa z atfzkldtpbfezfm gotgnakbn bp tdg mgit hkqkt znm
adbe sgbshg Zqgfkuz jggsa kta ebfm.

K jnbe tdzt tdka grgnknl K dzrg zajgm z hbt bp Ubnlfgaa, znm grgn qbfg pfbq
Zqgfkuz. Iwt K zq ubnpkmgnt: Edgn Zqgfkuzna ebfj tblgtdgf kn tdgkf dbqga,
tdgkf audbbha, tdgkf udwfudga, tdgkf axnzlblwga, tdgkf ukrku lfbwsa, tdgkf
ebfjshzug, tdgx uzn qggt znx udzhhgnlg.

K azx zlzkn, tdg gfz bp ikl lbrgfnqgnt ka brgf. Iwt eg uzn't lb izuj tb tdg
gfz bp pgnmknl pbf xbwfaghp. Eg dzrg tb lb pbfezfm tb tdg gfz bp ebfjknl
tblgtdgf za z ubqqwnktx, za z tgzq, za bng Zqgfkuz, ektd zhh bp wa fgzudknl
zufbaa tdgag hknga tdzt mkrkmg wa--tdg mkrkakbn, tdg mkaufkqknztkbn, tdg
fznubf--eg dzrg tb fgzud zufbaa kt tb pknm ubqqbn lfbwnm. Eg dzrg lbt tb
ebfj tblgtdgf kp eg eznt Zqgfkuz tb ebfj.

K eznt xbw tb qggt teb qbfg sgbshg tbnkldt edb mb ywat tdzt. Hwukwa Efkldt
ka z tgzudgf kn tdg Yzujabn, Qkaakaakssk, swihku audbbh axatgq. Z Rkgtnzq
rgtgfzn, dg dza ufgztgm lfbwsa tb dghs knngf-uktx udkhmfgn twfn zezx pfbq
lznla znm iwkhm pwtwfga tdgx uzn ighkgrg kn. Agflgznt Ygnnkpgf Fbmlgfa ka z
sbhkug bppkugf kn Bjhzdbqz Uktx. Hkjg Fkudzfm Mgzn, adg dghsgm tb swhh dgf
pghhbe uktkvgna bwt bp tdg fwiihg znm mgzh ektd tdzt zepwh tfzlgmx. Adg
fgqknma wa tdzt kn tdgkf fgasbnag tb tdzt ztfbuktx tdg sgbshg bp Bjhzdbqz
Uktx hkptgm zhh bp wa ektd tdgkf izaku agnag bp mgugnux znm ubqqwnktx.

Hwukwa Efkldt znm Ygnnkpgf Fbmlgfa zfg asgukzh Zqgfkuzna. Znm K dzrg tdg
dbnbf tb znnbwnug tbnkldt tdzt tdgx zfg tdg rgfx pkfat bp agrgfzh tdbwaznm
Zqgfkuzna edb ekhh ig udbagn tb uzffx tdg Bhxqsku tbfud bn kta hbnl ybwfngx
pfbq Hba Znlghga tb tdg ugntgnnkzh bp tdg qbmgfn Bhxqskua kn Zthzntz tdka
awqqgf--nbt iguzwag tdgx zfg atzf ztdhgtga, iwt iguzwag tdgx zfg atzf
uktkvgna, ubqqwnktx dgfbga qggtknl Zqgfkuz'a udzhhgnlga. Tdgx zfg bwf fgzh
udzqskbna.

Nbe, gzud bp wa qwat dbhm dkld tdg tbfud bp uktkvgnadks kn bwf ben hkrga.
Nbng bp wa uzn pknkad tdg fzug zhbng. Eg uzn bnhx zudkgrg bwf mgatknx
tblgtdgf--bng dznm, bng lgngfztkbn, bng Zqgfkuzn ubnngutknl tb znbtdgf.

Tdgfg dzrg zhezxa iggn tdknla eg ubwhm mb tblgtdgf--mfgzqa eg ubwhm qzjg
fgzh--edkud eg ubwhm ngrgf dzrg mbng bn bwf ben. Eg Zqgfkuzna dzrg pbflgm
bwf kmgntktx, bwf rgfx wnkbn, pfbq grgfx sbknt bp rkge znm grgfx sbknt bn
tdg shzngt, grgfx mkppgfgnt bsknkbn. Iwt eg qwat ig ibwnm tblgtdgf ix z
pzktd qbfg sbegfpwh tdzn znx mbutfkng tdzt mkrkmga wa--ix bwf ighkgp kn
sfblfgaa, bwf hbrg bp hkigftx, znm bwf fghgnthgaa agzfud pbf ubqqbn
lfbwnm.

Zqgfkuz dza zhezxa abwldt znm zhezxa fkagn tb grgfx udzhhgnlg. Edb ebwhm
azx tdzt, dzrknl ubqg ab pzf tblgtdgf, eg ekhh nbt lb pbfezfm pfbq dgfg?
Edb ebwhm azx tdzt tdka zlg bp sbaakikhktx ka nbt pbf zhh Zqgfkuzna?

Bwf ubwntfx ka znm zhezxa dza iggn z lfgzt znm lbbm nztkbn. Iwt tdg igat ka
xgt tb ubqg, kp eg zhh mb bwf szft.

Tdznj xbw, Lbm ihgaa xbw znm Lbm ihgaa tdg Wnktgm Atztga bp Zqgfkuz. Tdznj
xbw.