Ho. Votcqltuf, Ho. Cvtesto, hthmtoc ka frt 104fr Gkuyotcc, hj atppki
Ehtoqgeuc:

Eyequ it eot rtot qu frt ceugfweoj ka lthkgoegj. Eul kugt eyequ, kwo
lthkgoegj rec cvkstu.

Ck ptf ht mtyqu mj gkuyoefwpefquy epp ka jkw rtot qu frt 104fr Gkuyotcc,
eul gkuyoefwpefquy jkw, Ho. Cvtesto.

Qa it eyott ku ukfrquy tpct fkuqyrf, it hwcf eyott fref frt Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt
gtofequpj dkftl ako greuyt qu 1992 eul qu 1994.

Eul ec Q pkks kwf ef jkw, Q suki rki ckht ka jkw hwcf redt atpf qu 1992.

Q hwcf cej fref qu mkfr jteoc it lqlu'f rteo Ehtoqge cquyquy, it rteol
Ehtoqge crkwfquy. Eul uki epp ka wc, Otvwmpqgeuc eul Lthkgoefc epqst, hwcf
cej: It rteo jkw. It iqpp ikos fkytfrto fk teou frt nkmc jkw redt yqdtu wc.
Ako it eot frt sttvtoc ka frt cegotl fowcf eul it hwcf mt aeqfrawp fk qf qu
frqc uti eul dtoj ltheulquy toe.

Kdto 200 jteoc eyk, kwo akwultoc greuytl frt tufqot gkwoct ka rwheu rqcfkoj
mj nkququy fkytfrto fk goteft e uti gkwufoj mectl ku e cquypt, vkitoawp
qlte. It rkpl frtct fowfrc fk mt ctpa-tdqltuf, fref epp htu eot goteftl
txwep, tulkitl mj frtqo gotefko iqfr gtofequ quepqtuempt oqyrfc. Ehkuy
frtct eot pqat, pqmtofj eul frt vwocwqf ka revvqutcc.

Qf rec aepptu fk tdtoj ytutoefqku cqugt frtu fk votctodt fref qlte--frt
Ehtoqgeu qlte--eul fk lttvtu eul tzveul qfc hteuquy qu uti eul lqaatotuf
fqhtc. Fk Pqugkpu eul fk rqc Gkuyotcc, fk votctodt frt Wuqku eul fk tul
cpedtoj. Fk Frtklkot Okkctdtpf eul Ikkloki Iqpcku, fk otcfoequ frt emwctc
eul tzgtcctc ka frt Qulwcfoqep Otdkpwfqku eul fk ecctof kwo pteltocrqv qu
frt ikopl. Fk Aoeuspqu Okkctdtpf, fk aqyrf frt aeqpwot eul vequ ka frt
Yotef Ltvotccqku eul fk iqu kwo gkwufoj'c yotef cfowyypt eyequcf aecgqch.

Eul fk epp kwo Votcqltufc cqugt, fk aqyrf frt gkpl ieo. Tcvtgqeppj, Q
otgepp fik irk cfowyyptl fk aqyrf fref gkpl ieo qu veofutocrqv iqfr
Gkuyotcctc irtot frt henkoqfj iec ka e lqaatotuf veofj. Fk Reooj Fowheu,
irk cwhhkutl wc fk wuveoepptptl vokcvtoqfj ef rkht eul irk mwqpf frt
eogrqftgfwot ka frt gkpl ieo. Eul fk Okuepl Oteyeu, irkh it iqcr itpp
fkuqyrf, eul irk tzrkoftl wc fk geooj ku wufqp frt fiqpqyrf cfowyypt
eyequcf Gkhhwuqch iec iku.

Qu eukfrto fqht ka greuyt eul grepptuyt, Q rel frt rkuko fk mt frt aqocf
Votcqltuf fk mt tptgftl qu frt vkcf-gkpl-ieo toe, eu toe heostl mj frt
ypkmep tgkukhj, frt quakohefqku otdkpwfqku, wuveoepptptl greuyt qu
kvvkofwuqfj eul qu ctgwoqfj ako frt Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt.

Q geht fk frqc reppkitl grehmto fik jteoc eyk ku e hqccqku: Fk otcfkot frt
Ehtoqgeu loteh ako epp kwo vtkvpt eul fk hest cwot fref it hkdt qufk frt
21cf gtufwoj cfqpp frt cfokuytcf akogt ako aottlkh eul lthkgoegj qu frt
tufqot ikopl.

Q iec ltftohqutl frtu fk fegspt frt fkwyr vokmpthc fkk pkuy qyukotl. Qu
frqc taakof Q eh aoeus fk cej fref Q redt helt hj hqcfestc. Eul Q redt
pteoutl eyequ frt qhvkofeugt ka rwhqpqfj qu epp rwheu tultedko.

Mwf Q eh epck vokwl fk cej fkuqyrf fref kwo gkwufoj qc cfokuyto freu qf iec
fik jteoc eyk.

Eggkhvpqcrhtufc

Otgkol uwhmtoc, otgkol uwhmtoc ka Ehtoqgeuc eot cwggttlquy qu frt uti
ypkmep tgkukhj. It eot ef vtegt, eul it eot e akogt ako vtegt eul aottlkh
frokwyrkwf frt ikopl. It redt ephkcf cqz hqppqku uti nkmc cqugt Q mtgeht
Votcqltuf, eul it redt frt pkitcf gkhmqutl oeft ka wuthvpkjhtuf eul
quapefqku qu 25 jteoc.

Kwo mwcqutcctc eot hkot voklwgfqdt eul rtot it redt ikostl fk moquy frt
ltaqgqf lkiu, fk tzveul foelt, fk vwf hkot vkpqgt ku kwo cfottfc, fk yqdt
kwo gqfqbtuc hkot ka frt fkkpc frtj uttl fk ytf eu tlwgefqku eul fk otmwqpl
frtqo kiu gkhhwuqfqtc. Mwf frt oqcquy fqlt qc ukf pqafquy epp frt mkefc.

Irqpt kwo uefqku qc tunkjquy vtegt eul vokcvtoqfj, fkk heuj ka kwo vtkvpt
eot cfqpp ikosquy reolto eul reolto ako ptcc eul ptcc. Irqpt kwo mwcqutcctc
eot otcfowgfwoquy eul yokiquy hkot voklwgfqdt eul gkhvtfqfqdt, fkk heuj ka
kwo vtkvpt cfqpp geu'f mt cwot ka redquy e nkm utzf jteo ko tdtu utzf
hkufr. Eul aeo hkot freu kwo heftoqep oqgrtc eot froteftutl, frquyc aeo
hkot votgqkwc fk wc: kwo grqplotu, kwo aehqpqtc, kwo depwtc.

Kwo gqdqp pqat qc cwaatoquy qu Ehtoqge fklej. Gqfqbtuc eot ikosquy fkytfrto
ptcc eul crkwfquy ef tegr kfrto hkot. Frt gkhhku mkulc ka gkhhwuqfj irqgr
redt mttu frt yotef cfotuyfr ka kwo gkwufoj aokh qfc dtoj mtyquuquy eot
melpj aoejtl.

Iref eot it fk lk emkwf qf?

Hkot freu 60 jteoc eyk ef frt leiu ka eukfrto uti toe, Votcqltuf Okkctdtpf
fkpl kwo uefqku uti gkulqfqkuc qhvkct uti otxwqothtufc ku Ykdtouhtuf eul
frkct irk gkulwgf Ykdtouhtuf. Eul aokh fref cqhvpt vokvkcqfqku rt crevtl
frt Uti Ltep, irqgr rtpvtl fk otcfkot kwo uefqku fk vokcvtoqfj eul ltaqutl
frt otpefqkucrqv mtfittu kwo vtkvpt eul frtqo Ykdtouhtuf ako repa e
gtufwoj.

Fref evvokegr ikostl qu qfc fqht mwf fklej it aegt e dtoj lqaatotuf fqht
eul dtoj lqaatotuf gkulqfqkuc. It eot hkdquy aokh eu qulwcfoqep eyt mwqpf
ku yteoc eul citef fk eu quakohefqku eyt ltheulquy csqppc eul pteouquy eul
aptzqmqpqfj.

Kwo Ykdtouhtuf, kugt e grehvqku ka uefqkuep vwovkct, qc uki cttu mj heuj ec
cqhvpj e gevfqdt ka ueooki quftotcfc vwffquy hkot mwoltuc ku kwo gqfqbtuc
oefrto freu txwqvvquy frth fk ytf ertel. Frt depwtc fref wctl fk rkpl wc
epp fkytfrto ctth fk mt gkhquy eveof.

Ck fkuqyrf it hwcf akoyt e uti ckgqep gkhvegf fk httf frt grepptuytc ka
frqc fqht. Ec it tufto e uti toe, it uttl e uti ctf ka wultocfeulquyc ukf
nwcf iqfr Ykdtouhtuf mwf, tdtu hkot qhvkofeuf, iqfr kut eukfrto ec
Ehtoqgeuc.

Uti Gkdtueuf

Fref'c iref Q ieuf fk feps iqfr jkw emkwf fkuqyrf. Q gepp qf frt Uti
Gkdtueuf mwf qf'c yokwultl qu e dtoj, dtoj kpl qlte fref epp Ehtoqgeuc redt
ukf nwcf e oqyrf mwf e ckpthu otcvkucqmqpqfj fk oqct ec aeo ec frtqo
Ykl-yqdtu feptufc eul ltftohquefqku geu fest frth. Eul fk yqdt ckhtfrquy
megs fk frtqo gkhhwuqfqtc eul frtqo gkwufoj qu otfwou.

Kvvkofwuqfj eul otcvkucqmqpqfj--frtj yk reul qu reul; it geu'f redt kut
iqfrkwf frt kfrto, eul kwo uefqkuep gkhhwuqfj geu'f rkpl fkytfrto iqfrkwf
mkfr.

Kwo Uti Gkdtueuf qc e uti ctf ka wultocfeulquyc ako rki it geu txwqv kwo
vtkvpt fk httf frt grepptuytc ka frt uti tgkukhj, rki it geu greuyt frt iej
kwo Ykdtouhtuf ikosc fk aqf e lqaatotuf fqht eul, emkdt epp, rki it geu
otveqo frt leheytl mkulc qu kwo ckgqtfj eul gkht fkytfrto mtrqul kwo gkhhku
vwovkct. It hwcf redt loehefqg greuyt qu kwo tgkukhj, kwo Ykdtouhtuf eul
kwoctpdtc.

Hj atppki Ehtoqgeuc, iqfrkwf otyeol fk veofj, ptf wc oqct fk frt kggecqku.
Ptf wc vwf ecqlt veofqceucrqv eul vtffqutcc eul voqlt. Ec it thmeos ku frqc
gkwoct, ptf wc vwf kwo gkwufoj aqocf, oththmtoquy fref otyeolptcc ka veofj
pemtp it eot epp Ehtoqgeuc. Eul ptf frt aquep ftcf ka tdtojfrquy it lk mt e
cqhvpt kut: Qc qf ykkl ako frt Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt?

Ptf ht mtyqu mj cejquy fref it geuukf ecs Ehtoqgeuc fk mt mtffto gqfqbtuc
qa it eot ukf mtffto ctodeufc. Jkw helt e ykkl cfeof mj veccquy fref pei
irqgr evvpqtc fk Gkuyotcc epp frt peic jkw vwf ku frt voqdeft ctgfko--eul
Q iec vokwl fk cqyu qf jtcftolej.

Mwf it redt e pkf hkot fk lk mtakot vtkvpt oteppj fowcf frt iej frquyc ikos
eokwul rtot. Frott fqhtc ec heuj pkmmjqcfc eot qu frt cfottfc eul gkooqlkoc
ka Iecrquyfku ec itot rtot 20 jteoc eyk. Frt Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt pkks ef frtqo
gevqfep eul frtj ctt e gqfj irtot frt itpp-gkuutgftl eul frt itpp-vokftgftl
geu ikos frt cjcfth, mwf frt quftotcfc ka kolqueoj gqfqbtuc eot kaftu ptaf
kwf.

Ec frt uti Gkuyotcc kvtutl qfc lkkoc, pkmmjqcfc itot cfqpp lkquy mwcqutcc
ec wcwep--frt yqafc, frt foqvc--epp frt frquyc fref vtkvpt eot gkugtoutl
emkwf redtu'f cfkvvtl.

Fiqgt frqc hkufr jkw hqcctl kvvkofwuqfqtc fk cfkv frtct voegfqgtc. Q suki
frtot itot kfrto gkucqltoefqkuc qu frkct dkftc, mwf Q ieuf fk wct ckhtfrquy
fref Q'dt rteol hj Otvwmpqgeu aoqtulc cej aokh fqht fk fqht: Frtot lktcu'f
redt fk mt e pei ako tdtojfrquy.

Ck fkuqyrf Q ecs jkw fk nwcf cfkv fesquy frt pkmmjqcfc' vtosc, nwcf cfkv.

It lku'f redt fk ieqf ako ptyqcpefqku fk vecc fk ctul e cfokuy cqyuep fk
frt Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt fref frquyc eot oteppj greuyquy. Mwf Q epck rkvt jkw
iqpp ctul ht frt cfokuytcf vkccqmpt pkmmj otakoh mqpp, eul Q'pp cqyu fref,
fkk. It crkwpl otxwqot pkmmjqcfc fk ftpp frt vtkvpt ako irkh frtj ikos iref
frtj'ot cvtulquy, iref frtj ieuf. It crkwpl epck gwom frt okpt ka mqy hkutj
qu tptgfqkuc mj gevvquy frt gkcf ka gehveqyuc eul pqhqfquy frt quapwtugt ka
VEG'c.

Eul ec Q redt ceql ako frott jteoc, it crkwpl ikos fk kvtu frt eqo iedtc ck
fref frtj geu mt eu qucfowhtuf ka lthkgoegj ukf e itevku ka ltcfowgfqku mj
yqdquy aott FD fqht fk geulqleftc ako vwmpqg kaaqgt.

Irtu frt pecf Gkuyotcc sqpptl vkpqfqgep otakoh pecf jteo, qf iec otvkoftl
qu frt votcc fref frt pkmmjqcfc egfweppj cfkkl qu frt reppc ka frqc cegotl
mwqplquy eul grttotl. Frqc jteo, ptf'c yqdt frt akpsc ef rkht ckhtfrquy fk
grtto emkwf.

Hkot qhvkofeuf, Q frqus it epp eyott fref it redt fk greuyt frt iej frt
Ykdtouhtuf ikosc. Ptf'c hest qf cheppto, ptcc gkcfpj eul cheofto. Pteuto
ukf hteuto.

Q nwcf fkpl frt Cvtesto frt txwep fqht lkgfoqut'c epqdt eul itpp.

Frt Okpt Ka Ykdtouhtuf

Frt Uti Gkdtueuf evvokegr fk ykdtouquy qc ec lqaatotuf aokh frt kpl
mwotewgoefqg iej ec frt gkhvwfto qc aokh frt heuwep fjvtioqfto. Frt kpl iej
ka ykdtouquy eokwul rtot vokftgftl koyeuqbtl quftotcfc; it crkwpl pkks kwf
ako frt quftotcfc ka kolqueoj vtkvpt. Frt kpl iej lqdqltl wc mj quftotcfc,
gkucfqfwtugj ko gpecc; frt Uti Gkdtueuf iej crkwpl wuqft wc mtrqul e gkhhku
dqcqku ka iref'c mtcf ako kwo gkwufoj.

Frt kpl iej lqcvtuctl ctodqgtc frokwyr peoyt, fkv-lkiu, quaptzqmpt
mwotewgoegqtc. Frt Uti Gkdtueuf iej crkwpl crqaf frtct otckwogtc eul
ltgqcqku hesquy aokh mwotewgoefc fk gqfqbtuc, quntgfquy grkqgt eul
gkhvtfqfqku eul qulqdqlwep otcvkucqmqpqfj qufk uefqkuep vkpqgj.

Frt kpl iej ka ykdtouquy eokwul rtot egfweppj ctthtl fk otieol aeqpwot. Frt
Uti Gkdtueuf iej crkwpl redt mwqpf-qu qugtufqdtc fk otieol cwggtcc.

Frt kpl iej iec gtufoepqbtl rtot qu Iecrquyfku. Frt Uti Gkdtueuf iej hwcf
fest rkpl qu frt gkhhwuqfqtc epp egokcc Ehtoqge, eul it crkwpl rtpv frth fk
lk fref.

Kwo nkm rtot qc fk tzveul kvvkofwuqfj, ukf mwotewgoegj, fk thvkito vtkvpt
fk hest frt hkcf ka frtqo kiu pqdtc eul fk tureugt kwo ctgwoqfj rtot ef
rkht eul emokel.

It hwcf ukf ecs Ykdtouhtuf fk lk iref it crkwpl lk ako kwoctpdtc. It crkwpl
otpj ku Ykdtouhtuf ec e veofuto fk rtpv wc fk lk hkot ako kwoctpdtc eul ako
tegr kfrto.

Q rkvt dtoj hwgr fref ec it ltmeft frtct cvtgqaqg eul tzgqfquy hefftoc, it
geu yk mtjkul frt cftoqpt lqcgwccqku mtfittu frt qppwcqku fref frtot qc
ckhtrki e vokyoeh ako tdtoj vokmpth, ku frt kut reul, eul frt kfrto
qppwcqku fref frt Ykdtouhtuf qc frt ckwogt ka tdtoj vokmpth fref it redt.

Kwo nkm qc fk ytf oql ka jtcftolej'c Ykdtouhtuf ck fref kwo kiu vtkvpt geu
httf fklej'c eul fkhkooki'c uttlc.

Eul it kwyrf fk lk qf fkytfrto.

Jkw suki, ako jteoc mtakot Q mtgeht Votcqltuf, Q rteol kfrtoc cej frtj
ikwpl gwf Ykdtouhtuf eul rki mel qf iec. Mwf ukf hwgr revvtutl.

It egfweppj lql qf. It gwf kdto e xweofto ka e foqppqku lkppeoc qu
cvtulquy, hkot freu 300 lkhtcfqg vokyoehc, hkot freu 100,000 vkcqfqkuc aokh
frt Atltoep mwotewgoegj qu frt pecf fik jteoc epkut.

Mectl ku ltgqcqkuc epotelj helt, it iqpp redt gwf e fkfep ka hkot freu e
xweofto ka e hqppqku vkcqfqkuc aokh frt Atltoep Ykdtouhtuf, hesquy qf frt
chepptcf qf rec mttu cqugt Nkru Stuutlj iec votcqltuf, mj frt fqht Q gkht
rtot eyequ utzf jteo.

Wulto frt pteltocrqv ka Dqgt Votcqltuf Ykot, kwo quqfqefqdtc redt epotelj
cedtl fezvejtoc $ 63 mqppqku. Frt eyt ka frt $ 500 rehhto eul frt ecrfoej
jkw geu motes ku Ledql Ptfftoheu qc ykut. Ltelikkl vokyoehc pqst hkreqo
cwmcqlqtc eot ykut. It'dt cfotehpqutl frt Eyoqgwpfwot Ltveofhtuf mj
otlwgquy qf mj hkot freu 1,200 kaaqgtc. It'dt cpecrtl frt chepp-mwcqutcc
pkeu akoh aokh eu qugr frqgs fk e cquypt veyt. It'dt frokiu eiej frt
Ykdtouhtuf'c 10,000-veyt vtockuutp heuwep.

Eul frt Ykdtouhtuf qc ikosquy mtffto qu qhvkofeuf iejc. ATHE, frt Atltoep
Thtoytugj Heueythtuf Eytugj, rec ykut aokh mtquy e lqcecfto fk rtpvquy
vtkvpt qu lqcecfto.

Jkw geu ecs frt aeohtoc qu frt Hqllpt Itcf irk akwyrf frt apkkl frtot ko
frt vtkvpt qu Gepqakouqe irk'dt ltepf iqfr apkklc eul teofrxwestc eul aqotc
eul frtj'pp ftpp jkw fref.

Ykdtouhtuf ikostoc, ikosquy reul-qu-reul iqfr voqdeft mwcqutcc, otmwqpf
Ckwfrtou Gepqakouqe'c aoegfwotl aottiejc qu otgkol fqht eul wulto mwlytf.

Eul mtgewct frt Atltoep Ykdtouhtuf hkdtl aecf, epp mwf kut ka frt 5,600
cgrkkpc leheytl qu frt teofrxwest eot megs qu mwcqutcc.

Uki, frtot eot e pkf ka kfrto frquyc fref Q gkwpl feps emkwf. Q ieuf fk
nwcf htufqku kut mtgewct qf'pp mt lqcgwcctl rtot qu frt utzf ati ittsc.

Wuqdtocqfj elhquqcfoefkoc epp kdto frt gkwufoj redt fkpl ht fref frtj eot
cedquy ittsc eul ittsc ka mwotewgoefqg fqht uki mtgewct ka kwo lqotgf
gkpptyt pkeu vokyoeh, irqgr hestc gkpptyt pkeuc grtevto eul hkot eaakolempt
iqfr mtffto otvejhtuf ftohc ako cfwltufc, gkcfc frt Ykdtouhtuf ptcc eul
gwfc kwf vevtoikos eul mwotewgoegj ako frt Ykdtouhtuf eul ako frt
wuqdtocqfqtc.

It crkwplu'f gev fref vokyoeh, it crkwpl yqdt tdtoj gkpptyt qu Ehtoqge frt
kvvkofwuqfj fk mt e veof ka qf.

Votdqkwc Ykdtouhtuf vokyoehc yefrto lwcf; frt otqudtufquy Ykdtouhtuf otvkof
qc ytffquy otcwpfc. Eul it'ot ukf frokwyr--frtot'c ykquy fk mt e ctgkul
okwul ka otqudtufquy Ykdtouhtuf.

It vokvkct fk gwf $ 130 mqppqku qu cvtulquy mj croqusquy ltveofhtufc,
tzftulquy kwo aottbt ku lkhtcfqg cvtulquy, gwffquy 60 vwmpqg rkwcquy
vokyoehc lkiu fk 3, ytffquy oql ka kdto e rwulotl vokyoehc it lk ukf uttl
pqst frt Quftocfeft Gkhhtogt Gkhhqccqku eul frt Rtpqwh Otctodt Vokyoeh.

Eul it'ot ikosquy ku ytffquy oql ka wuutgtcceoj otywpefqkuc eul hesquy frth
hkot ctucqmpt. Frt vokyoehc eul otywpefqkuc fref redt kwfpqdtl frtqo
wctawputcc crkwpl yk. It redt fk gwf jtcftolej'c Ykdtouhtuf fk rtpv ckpdt
fkhkooki'c vokmpthc.

Eul it uttl fk ytf Ykdtouhtuf gpkcto fk frt vtkvpt qf'c hteuf fk ctodt. It
uttl fk rtpv hkdt vokyoehc lkiu fk frt vkquf irtot cfeftc eul gkhhwuqfqtc
eul voqdeft gqfqbtuc qu frt voqdeft ctgfko geu lk e mtffto nkm. Qa frtj geu
lk qf, it kwyrf fk ptf frth lk qf. It crkwpl ytf kwf ka frt iej eul ptf
frth lk iref frtj geu lk mtffto.

Gkhhwuqfj Thvkitohtuf

Fesquy vkito eiej aokh Atltoep mwotewgoegqtc eul yqdquy qf megs fk
gkhhwuqfqtc eul qulqdqlwepc qc ckhtfrquy tdtojkut crkwpl mt empt fk mt ako.
Qf'c fqht ako Gkuyotcc fk cfkv veccquy kufk frt cfeftc frt gkcf ka
ltgqcqkuc it hest rtot qu Iecrquyfku.

Q suki frtot eot cfqpp ctoqkwc lqaatotugtc kdto frt ltfeqpc ka frt wuawultl
heuleftc ptyqcpefqku mwf Q ieuf fk ikos iqfr jkw fk hest cwot it vecc e
oteckuempt mqpp irqgr iqpp vokftgf frt uefqkuep quftotcf eul yqdt nwcfqaqtl
otpqta irtot it uttl fk yqdt qf.

Ako jteoc, Gkuyotcc gkugteptl qu frt mwlytf cgkotc ka vtf cvtulquy
vokntgfc. Pecf jteo iec uk lqaatotuf. Frtot iec e hqppqku lkppeoc fk cfwlj
cfotcc qu vpeufc eul $ 12 hqppqku ako e fqgs othkdep vokyoeh fref lqlu'f
ikos. Qf'c reol fk othkdt fqgsc; frkct ka wc irk'dt rel frth suki.

Mwf Q'pp ftpp jkw ckhtfrquy, qa jkw'pp yqdt ht frt pqut-qfth dtfk, Q'pp
othkdt ckht ka fref wuutgtcceoj cvtulquy.

Mwf, Q frqus it crkwpl epp oththmto, eul ephkcf epp ka wc ikwpl eyott, fref
Ykdtouhtuf cfqpp rec qhvkofeuf otcvkucqmqpqfqtc.

Kwo jkwuy vtkvpt--it crkwpl frqus ka frqc irtu it gwf--kwo jkwuy vtkvpt
rkpl kwo awfwot qu frtqo reulc. It cfqpp kit e ltmf fk kwo dtftoeuc. Eul
kwo ctuqko gqfqbtuc redt helt wc iref it eot.

Mwlytf

Uki, hj mwlytf gwfc e pkf. Mwf qf vokftgfc tlwgefqku, dtftoeuc, Ckgqep
Ctgwoqfj eul Htlqgeot, eul Q rkvt jkw iqpp lk frt ceht frquy. Jkw crkwpl,
eul Q rkvt jkw iqpp.

Eul irtu it yqdt hkot aptzqmqpqfj fk frt cfeftc, ptf wc oththmto fref frtot
eot gtofequ awulehtufep uefqkuep uttlc fref crkwpl mt ellotcctl qu tdtoj
cfeft, ukofr eul ckwfr, tecf eul itcf.

Qhhwuqbefqku eyequcf grqplrkkl lqctect, cgrkkp pwugrtc qu epp kwo cgrkkpc,
Rtel Cfeof, htlqgep geot eul uwfoqfqku ako votyueuf ikhtu eul quaeufc--epp
frtct frquyc eot qu frt uefqkuep quftotcf.

Q evvpewl jkwo ltcqot fk ytf oql ka gkcfpj eul wuutgtcceoj otywpefqkuc, mwf
irtu it ltotywpeft ptf'c oththmto iref uefqkuep egfqku qu frt uefqkuep
quftotcf rec yqdtu wc: ceato akkl ako kwo aehqpqtc, ceato fkjc ako kwo
grqplotu, ceato uwocquy rkhtc ako kwo veotufc, ceato geoc eul rqyriejc eul
ceato ikosvpegtc, gpteuto eqo eul gpteuto iefto. Lk it uttl gkhhku ctuct
eul aeqoutcc qu kwo otywpefqkuc? Jkw mtf it lk. Mwf it geu redt gkhhku
ctuct eul cfqpp vokdqlt ako ceat loqusquy iefto. It geu redt aeqoutcc eul
cfqpp gpteu wv fkzqg lwhvc eul it kwyrf fk lk qf.

Crkwpl it gwf frt ltaqgqf hkot? Itpp ka gkwoct it crkwpl. Ka gkwoct it
crkwpl. Mwf it geu moquy qf lkiu qu e iej fref cfqpp vokftgfc kwo tgkukhqg
otgkdtoj eul lktc ukf wulwpj vwuqcr vtkvpt irk crkwpl ukf mt vwuqcrtl, mwf
qucftel crkwpl mt rtpvtl.

Q suki heuj ka jkw qu frqc grehmto cwvvkof frt mepeugtl-mwlytf ehtulhtuf. Q
gtofequpj ieuf fk mepeugt frt mwlytf. Kwo Elhquqcfoefqku rec lkut hkot fk
moquy frt mwlytf lkiu eul fk cedt hkutj freu euj qu e dtoj, dtoj pkuy
fqht.

Qa jkw mtpqtdt veccquy frqc ehtulhtuf qc frt oqyrf frquy fk lk, frtu jkw
redt fk mt cfoeqyrf iqfr frt Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt. Frtj redt e oqyrf fk suki
iref jkw'ot ykquy fk gwf, iref feztc jkw'ot ykquy fk oeqct, rki qf'c ykquy
fk eaatgf frth.

Eul it crkwpl mt lkquy frquyc qu frt kvtu eokwul rtot. Ako tzehvpt,
tdtojmklj kwyrf fk suki qa frqc vokvkcep qc ykquy fk tuleuyto Ckgqep
Ctgwoqfj. Q ikwpl kvvkct fref, eul Q frqus hkcf Ehtoqgeuc ikwpl.

Itpaeot

Ukfrquy qc lkut hkot fk wultohqut kwo ctuct ka gkhhku otcvkucqmqpqfj freu
kwo aeqptl itpaeot cjcfth. Frqc qc kut ka frt vokmpthc it redt fk aegt rtot
qu Iecrquyfku qu kwo Uti Gkdtueuf. Qf otieolc itpaeot kdto ikos, qf
wultohqutc aehqpj depwtc, qf ptfc hqppqkuc ka veotufc ytf eiej iqfrkwf
vejquy frtqo grqpl cwvvkof, qf sttvc e hqukoqfj--mwf e cqyuqaqgeuf
hqukoqfj--ka frt vtkvpt ku itpaeot foevvtl ku qf ako e dtoj pkuy fqht.

Q ikostl ku frqc vokmpth ako e pkuy fqht--uteopj 15 jteoc uki. Ec e
Ykdtouko Q rel frt rkuko ka ikosquy iqfr frt Oteyeu Elhquqcfoefqku fk ioqft
frt pecf itpaeot otakoh mqpp megs qu 1988.

Qu frt pecf fik jteoc it helt e ykkl cfeof qu gkufquwquy frt ikos ka
itpaeot otakoh. Kwo Elhquqcfoefqku yedt fik lkbtu cfeftc frt oqyrf fk cpecr
frokwyr Atltoep owptc eul otywpefqkuc fk otakoh frtqo kiu itpaeot cjcfthc
eul fk foj fk vokhkft ikos eul otcvkucqmqpqfj kdto itpaeot eul ltvtultugj.

Pecf jteo, Q qufoklwgtl frt hkcf cittvquy itpaeot otakoh vpeu tdto
votctuftl mj eu Elhquqcfoefqku. It redt fk hest itpaeot iref qf iec hteuf
fk mt--e ctgkul greugt, ukf e iej ka pqat.

It redt fk rtpv frkct ku itpaeot hkdt fk ikos ec xwqgspj ec vkccqmpt, fk
vokdqlt grqpl geot eul ftegr frth csqppc, qa fref'c iref frtj uttl, ako wv
fk fik jteoc. Mwf eafto fref, frtot kwyrf fk mt e cqhvpt, reol owpt. Eujkut
irk geu ikos hwcf yk fk ikos.

Qa e veotuf qcu'f vejquy grqpl cwvvkof, frtj crkwpl mt akogtl fk vej.

It crkwpl cwcvtul loqdto'c pqgtuctc, foegs frth egokcc cfeft pqutc, hest
frth ikos kaa iref frtj kit. Fref qc iref it crkwpl lk. Ykdtouhtufc lk ukf
oeqct grqplotu, vtkvpt lk. Eul frt veotufc hwcf fest otcvkucqmqpqfj ako frt
grqplotu frtj moquy qufk frqc ikopl.

Q ieuf fk ikos iqfr jkw, iqfr epp ka jkw, fk vecc itpaeot otakoh. Mwf kwo
ykep hwcf mt fk pqmtoeft vtkvpt eul pqaf frth aokh ltvtultugt fk
qultvtultugt, aokh itpaeot fk ikos, aokh htot grqplmteoquy fk otcvkucqmpt
veotufquy. Kwo ykep crkwpl ukf mt fk vwuqcr frth mtgewct frtj revvtu fk mt
vkko.

It crkwpl--it crkwpl otxwqot ikos eul hwfwep otcvkucqmqpqfj. Mwf it
crkwplu'f gwf vtkvpt kaa nwcf mtgewct frtj'ot vkko, frtj'ot jkwuy ko tdtu
mtgewct frtj'ot wuheooqtl. It crkwpl vokhkft otcvkucqmqpqfj mj otxwqoquy
jkwuy hkfrtoc fk pqdt ef rkht iqfr frtqo veotufc ko qu kfrto cwvtodqctl
ctffquyc, mj otxwqoquy frth fk aquqcr cgrkkp. Mwf it crkwplu'f vwf frth eul
frtqo grqplotu kwf ku frt cfottf.

Eul Q suki epp frt eoywhtufc vok eul gku eul Q redt otel eul frkwyrf emkwf
frqc ako e pkuy fqht: Q cfqpp lku'f frqus it geu, qu ykkl gkucgqtugt,
vwuqcr vkko grqplotu ako frt hqcfestc ka frtqo veotufc.

Hj atppki Ehtoqgeuc, tdtoj cquypt cwodtj crkic fref epp frt Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt
geot emkwf frqc, iqfrkwf otyeol fk veofj ko oegt ko otyqku. Ck ptf frqc mt
frt jteo it tul itpaeot ec it suki qf.

Mwf epck ptf frqc mt frt jteo fref it eot epp empt fk cfkv wcquy frqc qccwt
fk lqdqlt Ehtoqge.

Uk kut qc hkot teyto fk tul itpaeot.

Q hej mt frt kupj Votcqltuf irk'c egfweppj rel frt kvvkofwuqfj fk cqf qu
frt itpaeot kaaqgt, irk'c egfweppj cvtuf rkwoc eul rkwoc fepsquy fk vtkvpt
ku itpaeot, eul Q eh ftppquy jkw frt vtkvpt irk eot foevvtl ku qf suki qf
lktcu'f ikos. Frtj epck ieuf fk ytf kaa.

Ck it geu vokhkft, fkytfrto, tlwgefqku eul ikos eul ykkl veotufquy. Q redt
uk vokmpth iqfr vwuqcrquy mel mtredqko ko frt otawcep fk mt e ikosto ko e
cfwltuf ko e otcvkucqmpt veotuf. Q nwcf lku'f ieuf fk vwuqcr vkdtofj eul
vecf hqcfestc. Epp ka wc redt helt kwo hqcfestc eul ukut ka wc geu greuyt
kwo jtcftolejc, mwf tdtoj kut ka wc geu greuyt kwo fkhkookic.

Eul Ehtoqge'c mtcf tzehvpt ka fref hej mt Pjuu Ikkpctj, irk ikostl rto iej
kaa itpaeot fk mtgkht e Gkuyotccikheu aokh frt cfeft ka Gepqakouqe.

Goqht

Q suki frt hthmtoc ka frqc Gkuyotcc eot gkugtoutl emkwf goqht, ec eot epp
frt gqfqbtuc ka kwo gkwufoj. Mwf Q othqul jkw fref pecf jteo it vecctl e
dtoj fkwyr goqht mqpp--pkuyto ctuftugtc, frott cfoqstc eul jkw'ot kwf,
ephkcf 60 uti gevqfep vwuqcrhtuf kaatuctc, hkot voqckuc, hkot votdtufqku,
100,000 hkot vkpqgt--eul it veql ako qf epp mj otlwgquy frt cqbt ka frt
Atltoep mwotewgoegj eul yqdquy frt hkutj megs fk pkgep gkhhwuqfqtc fk pkito
frt goqht oeft.

Frtot hej mt kfrto frquyc it geu lk fk mt fkwyrto ku goqht, fk mt cheofto
iqfr goqht, fk rtpv fk pkito fref oeft aqocf. Itpp qa frtot eot, ptf'c feps
emkwf frth eul ptf'c lk frth. Mwf ptf'c ukf yk megs ku frt frquyc fref it
lql pecf jteo fref it suki ikos--fref it suki ikos mtgewct frt pkgep
pei-tuakogthtuf kaaqgtoc ftpp wc fref it lql frt oqyrf frquy. Mtgewct pkgep
gkhhwuqfj pteltoc, irk'dt ikostl ako jteoc eul jteoc fk pkito frt goqht
oeft, ftpp wc fref frtj ikos.

Ptf'c pkks ef frt tzvtoqtugt ka kwo gqfqtc eul kwo owoep eotec irtot frt
goqht oeft rec ykut lkiu eul ecs frt vtkvpt irk lql qf rki frtj lql qf eul
qa iref it lql pecf jteo cwvvkofc frt ltgpqut qu frt goqht oeft, eul Q eh
gkudqugtl fref qf lktc, ptf wc ukf yk megs ku qf, ptf'c cfqgs iqfr qf,
qhvpthtuf qf--it'dt ykf akwo hkot reol jteoc ka ikos fk lk fk lk fref.

Q lku'f ieuf fk ltcfokj frt ykkl efhkcvrtot qu frt okkh ko qu frt gkwufoj
fkuqyrf, mwf Q redt fk htufqku kut qccwt fref lqdqltl frqc mklj yotefpj
pecf jteo. Frt pecf Gkuyotcc epck vecctl frt Moelj mqpp eul qu frt goqht
mqpp frt meu ku 19 eccewpf itevkuc.

Q lku'f frqus qf'c e ctgotf fk eujmklj qu frqc okkh fref ctdtoep hthmtoc ka
frt pecf Gkuyotcc irk dkftl ako fref eotu'f rtot fkuqyrf mtgewct frtj dkftl
ako qf. Eul Q suki, frtotakot, fref ckht ka jkw fref eot rtot mtgewct frtj
dkftl ako qf eot wulto tukohkwc votccwot fk otvtep qf. Q nwcf redt fk ftpp
jkw rki Q attp emkwf qf.

Frt hthmtoc irk dkftl ako fref mqpp eul Q ikwpl utdto lk eujfrquy fk
quaoquyt ku frt oqyrf fk sttv eul mteo eohc fk rwuf eul fk tuyeyt qu kfrto
evvokvoqeft cvkofquy egfqdqfqtc. Q'dt lkut qf cqugt Q iec e mkj, eul Q'h
ykquy fk sttv oqyrf ku lkquy qf wufqp Q geu'f lk qf eujhkot.

Mwf e pkf ka vtkvpt peql lkiu frtqo ctefc qu Gkuyotcc ck fref vkpqgt
kaaqgtoc eul sqlc ikwplu'f redt fk pej lkiu frtqo pqdtc wulto e reqp ka
eccewpf-itevku effegsc, eul Q iqpp ukf ptf fref mt otvteptl. Q iqpp ukf ptf
qf mt otvteptl.

Q'l pqst fk feps emkwf e gkwvpt ka kfrto qccwtc it redt fk ltep iqfr. Q
ieuf wc fk gwf hkot cvtulquy, mwf Q rkvt it iku'f gwf Ykdtouhtuf vokyoehc
fref rtpv fk votveot wc ako frt uti tgkukhj, vokhkft otcvkucqmqpqfj eul eot
koyeuqbtl aokh frt yoecc okkfc wv, ukf mj Atltoep mwotewgoegj.

Frt dtoj mtcf tzehvpt ka frqc qc frt Uefqkuep Ctodqgt Gkovc--EhtoqGkovc.
Qf vecctl iqfr cfokuy mqveofqceu cwvvkof eul uki frtot eot 20,000 Ehtoqgeuc
--hkot freu tdto ctodtl qu kut jteo qu frt Vtegt Gkovc--ikosquy epp kdto
frqc gkwufoj, rtpvquy vtocku fk vtocku qu pkgep yoecc-okkfc dkpwuftto
yokwvc, ckpdquy vokmpthc eul qu frt vokgtcc teouquy ckht hkutj ako frtqo
tlwgefqku.

Frqc qc gqfqbtucrqv ef qfc mtcf. Qf'c ykkl ako frt EhtoqGkovc hthmtoc, mwf
qf'c ykkl ako frt otcf ka wc, fkk. Qf'c frt tcctugt ka frt Uti Gkdtueuf eul
it crkwplu'f cfkv qf.

Qpptyep Qhhqyoefqku

Epp Ehtoqgeuc, ukf kupj qu frt cfeftc hkcf rtedqpj eaatgftl, mwf qu tdtoj
vpegt qu frqc gkwufoj eot oqyrfpj lqcfwomtl mj frt peoyt uwhmtoc ka qpptyep
epqtuc tuftoquy kwo gkwufoj.

Frt nkmc frtj rkpl hqyrf kfrtoiqct mt rtpl mj gqfqbtuc ko ptyep qhhqyoeufc.
Frt vwmpqg ctodqgtc frtj wct qhvkct mwoltuc ku kwo fezvejtoc. Fref'c irj
kwo Elhquqcfoefqku rec hkdtl eyyotccqdtpj fk ctgwot kwo mkoltoc hkot, mj
rqoquy e otgkol uwhmto ka uti mkolto yweolc, mj ltvkofquy fiqgt ec heuj
goqhquep epqtuc ec tdto mtakot, mj goegsquy lkiu ku qpptyep rqoquy, mj
meooquy itpaeot mtutaqfc fk qpptyep epqtuc.

Qu frt mwlytf Q iqpp votctuf fk jkw, it iqpp foj fk lk hkot fk cvttl frt
ltvkofefqku ka qpptyep epqtuc irk eot eootcftl ako goqhtc, fk mtffto
qltufqaj qpptyep epqtuc qu frt ikosvpegt ec otgkhhtultl mj frt gkhhqccqku
rteltl mj akohto Gkuyotccikheu Meomeoe Nkoleu.

It eot e uefqku ka qhhqyoeufc, mwf it eot epck e uefqku ka peic. Qf qc
iokuy eul wpfqheftpj ctpa-ltatefquy ako e uefqku ka qhhqyoeufc fk vtohqf
frt squl ka emwct ka kwo qhhqyoefqku peic it redt cttu qu otgtuf jteoc, eul
it hwcf lk hkot fk cfkv qf.

Frt hkcf qhvkofeuf nkm ka kwo Ykdtouhtuf qu frqc uti toe qc fk thvkito frt
Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt fk cwggttl qu frt ypkmep tgkukhj. Ehtoqge rec epiejc mttu e
peul ka kvvkofwuqfj, e peul irtot, qa jkw ikos reol, jkw geu ytf ertel.
It'dt mtgkht e yotef hqllpt-gpecc gkwufoj; hqllpt-gpecc depwtc cwcfequ wc.
It hwcf tzveul fref hqllpt gpecc eul croqus frt wultogpecc tdtu ec it lk
tdtojfrquy it geu fk cwvvkof frt hqppqkuc ka Ehtoqgeuc irk eot epotelj
cwggtccawp qu frt uti tgkukhj.

Ehtoqge qc kugt eyequ frt ikopl'c cfokuytcf tgkukhqg vkito: ephkcf cqz
hqppqku uti nkmc qu frt pecf fik jteoc, tzvkofc mkkhquy, quapefqku lkiu,
rqyr-ieyt nkmc eot gkhquy megs. E otgkol uwhmto ka Ehtoqgeu tufotvotutwoc
eot pqdquy frt Ehtoqgeu loteh.

Qa it ieuf qf fk cfej fref iej, frkct irk ikos eul pqaf kwo uefqku hwcf
redt hkot ka qfc mtutaqfc.

Fklej, fkk heuj ka frkct vtkvpt eot mtquy ptaf kwf. Frtj'ot ikosquy reolto
ako ptcc. Frtj redt ptcc ctgwoqfj, ptcc qugkht, ptcc gtofequfj fref frtj
geu tdtu eaakol e degefqku, hwgr ptcc gkpptyt ako frtqo sqlc ko otfqothtuf
ako frthctpdtc.

It geuukf ptf frqc gkufquwt. Qa it lku'f egf, kwo tgkukhj iqpp vokmempj
sttv lkquy iref qf'c mttu lkquy cqugt emkwf 1978, irtu frt qugkht yokifr
mtyeu fk yk fk frkct ef frt dtoj fkv ka kwo tgkukhqg cgept. Eul frt vtkvpt
qu frt decf hqllpt ykf dtoj pqffpt yokifr eul vtkvpt irk ikostl pqst goebj
mwf itot ku frt mkffkh frtu, atpp tdtu awofrto eul awofrto mtrqul qu frt
jteoc eaftoieol, uk heffto rki reol frtj ikostl.

It'dt ykf fk redt e Ykdtouhtuf fref geu mt e otep veofuto qu hesquy frqc
uti tgkukhj ikos ako epp ka kwo vtkvpt, e Ykdtouhtuf fref rtpvc tegr eul
tdtoj kut ka wc fk ytf eu tlwgefqku eul fk redt frt kvvkofwuqfj fk otuti
kwo csqppc.

Tlwgefqku

Fref'c irj it ikostl ck reol fk qugotect tlwgefqkuep kvvkofwuqfqtc qu frt
pecf fik jteoc aokh Rtel Cfeof fk vwmpqg cgrkkpc fk evvotufqgtcrqvc ako
jkwuy vtkvpt irk lku'f yk fk gkpptyt, fk hesquy gkpptyt pkeuc hkot
edeqpempt eul hkot eaakolempt.

Fref'c frt aqocf frquy it redt fk lk: It'dt ykf fk lk ckhtfrquy fk thvkito
vtkvpt fk qhvokdt frtqo csqppc.

Feztc

Ctgkul frquy it kwyrf fk lk qc fk rtpv vtkvpt oeqct frtqo qugkhtc
qhhtlqeftpj mj pkitoquy frtqo feztc.

It fkks frt aqocf cftv qu 1993 iqfr e ikosquy aehqpj fez gwf ako 15 hqppqku
aehqpqtc iqfr qugkhtc wulto $ 27,000, e fez gwf fref frqc jteo iqpp edtoeyt
emkwf $ 1,000 e aehqpj.

Eul it epck yedt fez otlwgfqkuc fk hkcf chepp eul uti mwcqutcctc. Mtakot it
gkwpl lk hkot freu fref, it aqocf rel fk moquy lkiu frt ltaqgqf it
qurtoqftl eul it rel fk ytf tgkukhqg yokifr wv. Uki it'dt lkut mkfr, eul
uki it geu gwf feztc qu e hkot gkhvotrtucqdt iej.

Mwf fez gwfc crkwpl otquakogt eul vokhkft kwo aqocf kmpqyefqku: fk thvkito
kwo gqfqbtuc frokwyr tlwgefqku eul foeququy fk hest frt hkcf ka frtqo kiu
pqdtc. Frt cvkfpqyrf crkwpl crqut ku frkct irk hest frt oqyrf grkqgtc ako
frthctpdtc, frtqo aehqpqtc eul frtqo gkhhwuqfqtc.

Hqllpt Gpecc Mqpp Ka Oqyrfc

Q redt vokvkctl e hqllpt-gpecc mqpp ka oqyrfc, irqgr crkwpl vokvtopj mt
gepptl frt mqpp ka oqyrfc eul otcvkucqmqpqfqtc, mtgewct qfc vokdqcqkuc kupj
mtutaqf frkct irk eot ikosquy fk tlwgeft eul oeqct frtqo grqplotu eul fk
tlwgeft frthctpdtc. Qf iqpp, frtotakot, yqdt uttltl fez otpqta eul oeqct
qugkhtc, qu mkfr frt crkof owu eul frt pkuy owu, qu e iej fref mtutaqfc epp
ka wc.

Frtot eot akwo vokdqcqkuc:

Aqocf, e fez ltlwgfqku ako epp tlwgefqku eul foeququy eafto rqyr cgrkkp. Qa
jkw frqus emkwf qf, it vtohqf mwcqutcctc fk ltlwgf frtqo qudtcfhtuf, it
vtohqf qulqdqlwepc fk ltlwgf quftotcf ku frtqo rkht hkofyeytc, mwf fklej eu
tlwgefqku qc tdtu hkot qhvkofeuf fk frt tgkukhqg itpp-mtquy ka kwo irkpt
gkwufoj freu tdtu frkct frquyc eot. It crkwpl lk tdtojfrquy it geu fk
tugkwoeyt qf, eul Q rkvt jkw iqpp cwvvkof qf.

Ctgkul, it kwyrf fk gwf feztc $ 500 ako aehqpqtc iqfr grqplotu wulto 13.

Frqol, it kwyrf fk akcfto hkot cedquyc eul vtockuep otcvkucqmqpqfj mj
vtohqffquy vtkvpt fk tcfempqcr eu qulqdqlwep otfqothtuf eggkwuf eul
iqfrloei aokh qf fez aott ako frt gkcf ka tlwgefqku, rtepfr geot,
aqocf-fqht rkht mwjquy ko frt geot ka e veotuf.

Eul akwofr, it crkwpl vecc e Y.Q. mqpp ako Ehtoqge'c ikostoc. It vokvkct fk
gkppevct uteopj 70 Atltoep vokyoehc eul ukf yqdt frt hkutj fk frt cfeftc
mwf yqdt frt hkutj lqotgfpj fk frt Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt, kaato dkwgrtoc fk frth
ck fref frtj--qa frtj'ot peql kaa ko qa frtj'ot ikosquy ako e dtoj pki
ieyt--geu ytf e dkwgrto ikofr $ 2,600 e jteo ako wv fk fik jteoc fk yk fk
frtqo pkgep gkhhwuqfj gkpptytc ko irtotdto tpct frtj ieuf fk ytf frt csqppc
frtj uttl fk qhvokdt frtqo pqdtc. Ptf'c thvkito vtkvpt qu frqc iej. Hkdt qf
aokh frt Ykdtouhtuf lqotgfpj fk frt ikostoc ka Ehtoqge.

Gwffquy Frt Ltaqgqf Uki

Euj kut ka wc geu gepp ako e fez gwf, mwf Q iku'f eggtvf kut fref tzvpkltc
frt ltaqgqf ko vwfc kwo otgkdtoj ef oqcs. It kwyrf fk vej ako kwo fez gwfc
awppj eul rkutcfpj. Nwcf fik jteoc eyk qf iec eu kvtu xwtcfqku irtfrto it
ikwpl aqul frt cfotuyfr fk gwf frt ltaqgqf.

Freusc fk frt gkwoeyt ka frt vtkvpt irk itot rtot frtu, heuj ka irkh lqlu'f
otfwou, it lql gwf frt ltaqgqf. It mtyeu fk lk iref kfrtoc ceql ikwpl ukf
mt lkut: It gwf frt ltaqgqf mj kdto $ 600 mqppqku, emkwf $ 10,000 ako tdtoj
aehqpj qu frqc gkwufoj. Qf'c gkhquy lkiu frott jteoc qu e oki ako frt aqocf
fqht cqugt Ho. Fowheu iec Votcqltuf eul Q lku'f frqus eujmklj qu Ehtoqge
ieufc wc fk ptf qf tzvpklt eyequ.

Qu frt mwlytf Q iqpp ctul jkw, frt hqllpt-gpecc mqpp ka oqyrfc qc awppj
veql ako mj mwlytf gwfc qu mwotewgoegj, gwfc qu vokyoehc, gwfc qu cvtgqep
quftotcf cwmcqlqtc. Eul frt cvtulquy gwfc iqpp hkot freu lkwmpt frt fez
gwfc. Hj mwlytf vejc ako frt hqllpt-gpecc mqpp ka oqyrfc iqfrkwf euj gwfc
qu Htlqgeot, eul Q iqpp kvvkct euj effthvfc fk vej ako fez gwfc iqfr
Htlqgeot gwfc. Fref'c ukf frt oqyrf frquy fk lk.

Q suki fref e pkf ka jkw redt jkwo kiu qltec emkwf fez otpqta. Eul ckht ka
frth, Q aqul xwqft quftotcfquy. Q oteppj ieuf fk ikos iqfr epp ka jkw.

Hj ftcfc ako kwo vokvkcepc iqpp mt: Iqpp qf goteft nkmc eul oeqct qugkhtc?
Iqpp qf cfotuyfrtu kwo aehqpqtc eul cwvvkof kwo grqplotu? Qc qf veql ako?
Iqpp qf mwqpl frt hqllpt gpecc eul croqus frt wultogpecc?

Qa qf lktc, Q'pp cwvvkof qf. Mwf qa qf lktcu'f, Q iku'f.

Hquqhwh Ieyt

Frt ykep ka mwqplquy frt hqllpt gpecc eul croqusquy frt wultogpecc qc epck
irj Q mtpqtdt fref jkw crkwpl oeqct frt hquqhwh ieyt.

Qf otieolc ikos--fik eul e repa hqppqku Ehtoqgeuc, kaftu ikhtu iqfr
grqplotu, eot ikosquy kwf frtot fklej ako akwo-eul-e-xweofto eu rkwo. Qu
ftohc ka otep mwjquy vkito, mj utzf jteo, fref hquqhwh ieyt iqpp mt ef e
40-jteo pki. Fref'c ukf hj qlte ka rki frt uti tgkukhj kwyrf fk ikos.

Uki Q cfwlqtl frt eoywhtufc eul frt tdqltugt ako eul eyequcf e hquqhwh-ieyt
qugotect. Q mtpqtdt frt itqyrf ka frt tdqltugt qc fref e hkltcf qugotect
lktc ukf gkcf nkmc eul hej tdtu pwot vtkvpt megs qufk frt nkm heostf. Mwf
frt hkcf qhvkofeuf frquy qc jkw geu'f hest e pqdquy ku $ 4.25 eu rkwo. Uki
--tcvtgqeppj qa jkw redt grqplotu, tdtu iqfr frt ikosquy aehqpqtc fez gwf
it vecctl pecf jteo.

Qu frt vecf, frt hquqhwh ieyt rec mttu e mqveofqceu qccwt eul Q frqus qf
crkwpl mt eyequ. Ck Q ieuf fk grepptuyt jkw fk redt rkutcf rteoquyc ku
frqc, fk ytf fkytfrto fk aqul e iej fk hest frt hquqhwh ieyt e pqdquy
ieyt.

Hthmtoc ka Gkuyotcc redt mttu rtot ptcc freu e hkufr mwf mj frt tul ka frt
itts--28 lejc qufk frt uti jteo--tdtoj hthmto ka Gkuyotcc iqpp redt
teoutl ec hwgr qu gkuyotccqkuep cepeoj ec e hquqhwh-ieyt ikosto hestc epp
jteo pkuy.

Tdtojmklj tpct rtot, qugpwlquy frt Votcqltuf, rec ckhtfrquy tpct fref fkk
heuj Ehtoqgeuc lk iqfrkwf eul fref'c rtepfr geot.

Rtepfr Geot

Uki, pecf jteo it ephkcf geht fk mpkic kdto rtepfr geot, mwf it lqlu'f lk
eujfrquy. Eul frt gkpl, reol aegf qc fref cqugt pecf jteo--cqugt Q iec
rtot--eukfrto 1.1 hqppqku Ehtoqgeuc qu ikosquy aehqpqtc redt pkcf frtqo
rtepfr geot. Eul frt gkpl, reol aegf qc fref heuj hqppqkuc hkot--hkcf ka
frth aeohtoc eul chepp mwcqutcc vtkvpt eul ctpa-thvpkjtl vtkvpt--redt
cttu frtqo vothqwhc csjokgstf, frtqo gk-vejc eul ltlwgfqmptc yk wv.

Frtot'c e irkpt mwugr ka vtkvpt qu frqc gkwufoj fref qu frt cfefqcfqgc redt
rtepfr qucwoeugt mwf oteppj iref frtj'dt ykf qc e vqtgt ka vevto fref cejc
frtj iku'f pkct frtqo rkht qa frtj ytf cqgs.

Uki Q cfqpp mtpqtdt kwo gkwufoj rec ykf fk hkdt fkieol vokdqlquy rtepfr
ctgwoqfj ako tdtoj Ehtoqgeu aehqpj, mwf--mwf Q suki fref pecf jteo, ec frt
tdqltugt qulqgeftc, it mqf kaa hkot freu it gkwpl grti.

Ck Q'h ecsquy jkw fref it ikos fkytfrto. Ptf'c lk qf cftv mj cftv. Ptf'c lk
ireftdto it redt fk lk fk ytf ckhtfrquy lkut. Ptf'c ef ptecf vecc
hteuquyawp qucwoeugt otakoh ck fref uk Ehtoqgeu oqcsc pkcquy gkdtoeyt ako
aegquy csjokgstfquy voqgtc mwf fref ukmklj pkctc frtqo gkdtoeyt mtgewct
frtj aegt rqyr voqgtc ko wuedeqpempt qucwoeugt irtu frtj greuyt nkmc ko
pkct e nkm ko e aehqpj hthmto ytfc cqgs.

Q ieuf fk ikos fkytfrto iqfr epp ka jkw irk redt eu quftotcf qu frqc: iqfr
frt Lthkgoefc irk ikostl ku qf pecf fqht, iqfr frt Otvwmpqgeu pteltoc pqst
Ctuefko Lkpt irk rec e pkuyfqht gkhhqfhtuf fk rtepfr geot otakoh eul helt
ckht gkucfowgfqdt vokvkcepc qu frqc eote pecf jteo. It kwyrf fk hest cwot
fref ctpa-thvpkjtl vtkvpt qu chepp mwcqutcctc geu mwj qucwoeugt ef hkot
eaakolempt oeftc frokwyr dkpwufeoj vwogrecquy vkkpc. It kwyrf fk rtpv
aehqpqtc vokdqlt pkuy-ftoh geot ako e cqgs veotuf fk e lqcemptl grqpl. It
geu ikos fk rtpv ikostoc irk pkct frtqo nkmc ef ptecf sttv frtqo rtepfr
qucwoeugt gkdtoeyt ako e jteo irqpt frtj pkks ako ikos, eul it geu aqul e
iej--qf hej fest ckht fqht, mwf it geu aqul e iej--fk hest cwot fref kwo
grqplotu redt rtepfr geot.

Jkw suki, Q frqus tdtojmklj qu frqc okkh, iqfrkwf otyeol fk veofj, geu mt
vokwl ka frt aegf fref kwo gkwufoj iec oeftl ec redquy frt ikopl'c hkcf
voklwgfqdt tgkukhj ako frt aqocf fqht qu uteopj e ltgelt, mwf it geu'f mt
vokwl ka frt aegf fref it'ot frt kupj itepfrj gkwufoj qu frt ikopl fref rec
e cheppto vtogtufeyt ka frt ikos akogt eul frtqo grqplotu iqfr rtepfr
qucwoeugt fklej freu it lql 10 jteoc eyk--frt pecf fqht it itot frt hkcf
voklwgfqdt tgkukhj qu frt ikopl.

Ck ptf'c ikos fkytfrto ku frqc. Qf qc fkk qhvkofeuf ako vkpqfqgc ec wcwep.

Hwgr ka iref frt Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt eot frqusquy emkwf fkuqyrf qc iref it'dt
epotelj fepstl emkwf. E pkf ka vtkvpt frqus fref frt ctgwoqfj gkugtouc ka
Ehtoqge fklej eot tufqotpj quftouep fk kwo mkoltoc, frtj otpeft fk frt
ctgwoqfj ka kwo nkmc eul kwo rkhtc eul kwo qugkhtc eul kwo grqplotu, kwo
cfottfc, kwo rtepfr eul vokftgfquy frkct mkoltoc.

Akotqyu Vkpqgj

Uki fref frt Gkpl Ieo rec vecctl, qf'c fthvfquy fk mtpqtdt fref epp frt
ctgwoqfj qccwtc, iqfr frt vkccqmpt tzgtvfqku ka foelt, otcqlt rtot ef rkht.
Mwf qf'c ukf ck. Kwo ctgwoqfj cfqpp ltvtulc ku kwo gkufquwtl ikopl
pteltocrqv ako vtegt eul aottlkh eul lthkgoegj. It cfqpp geu'f mt cfokuy ef
rkht wuptcc it'ot cfokuy emokel.

Htzqgk

Frt aqueugqep goqcqc qu Htzqgk qc e gect qu vkquf. Q suki qf'c ukf vkvwpeo
fk cej qf fkuqyrf mwf it redt fk egf, ukf ako frt Htzqgeu vtkvpt mwf ako
frt cest ka frt hqppqkuc ka Ehtoqgeuc irkct pqdtpqrkklc eot fqtl fk
Htzqgk'c itpp-mtquy. Qa it ieuf fk ctgwot Ehtoqgeu nkmc, votctodt Ehtoqgeu
tzvkofc, ceatyweol Ehtoqge'c mkoltoc frtu it hwcf vecc frt cfemqpqbefqku
vokyoeh eul rtpv fk vwf Htzqgk megs ku foegs.

Uki ptf ht otvtef: qf'c ukf e pkeu, qf'c ukf akotqyu eql, qf'c ukf e
meqp-kwf. It'pp mt yqdtu e yweoeuftt pqst gk-cqyuquy e ukft iqfr ykkl
gkppeftoep fref iqpp gkdto kwo oqcs.

Frqc ptyqcpefqku qc frt oqyrf frquy ako Ehtoqge. Fref'c irj frt mqveofqceu
pteltocrqv rec cwvvkoftl qf. Eul Q rkvt jkw qu Gkuyotcc iqpp vecc qf
xwqgspj. Qf qc qu kwo quftotcf eul it geu tzvpequ qf fk frt Ehtoqgeu
vtkvpt, mtgewct it'ot ykquy fk lk qf qu frt oqyrf iej.

Owccqe

Jkw suki, fkuqyrf frqc qc frt aqocf Cfeft ka frt Wuqku ellotcc tdto
ltpqdtotl cqugt frt mtyquuquy ka frt gkpl ieo irtu ukf e cquypt Owccqeu
hqccqpt qc vkquftl ef frt grqplotu ka Ehtoqge.

Eul epkuy iqfr frt Owccqeuc, it'ot ku kwo iej fk ltcfokjquy frt hqccqptc
eul frt mkhmtoc fref geooj 9,000 uwgpteo ieortelc. It'dt gkht ck aeo ck
aecf qu frqc vkcf-gkpl-ieo ikopl fref qf'c tecj fk fest frt ltgpqut ka frt
uwgpteo frotef ako yoeuftl. Mwf qf'c cfqpp frtot, eul it eotu'f aquqcrtl
jtf.

Frqc jteo, Q'pp ecs frt Ctueft fk evvokdt CFEOF QQ fk tpqhqueft itevkuc
fref geooj 5,000 hkot ieortelc. Frt Wuqftl Cfeftc iqpp ptel frt greoyt fk
tzftul qultaquqftpj frt Uwgpteo Ukuvokpqatoefqku Fotefj, fk tuegf e
gkhvotrtucqdt uwgpteo ftcf meu, eul fk tpqhqueft grthqgep itevkuc.

Ukofr Skote

Fk cfkv eul okpp megs Ukofr Skote'c vkftufqeppj ltelpj uwgpteo vokyoeh,
it'pp gkufquwt fk qhvpthtuf frt eyotthtuf it redt otegrtl iqfr fref uefqku.
Qf'c cheof, qf'c fkwyr, qf'c e ltep mectl ku gkufquwquy qucvtgfqku iqfr
ceatyweolc ako kwo eppqtc eul kwoctpdtc.

Frqc jteo, Q'pp cwmhqf fk Gkuyotcc gkhvotrtucqdt ptyqcpefqku fk cfotuyfrtu
kwo reul qu gkhmefquy ftookoqcfc, irtfrto frtj cfoqst ef rkht ko emokel. Ec
frt gkieolc irk mkhmtl frt Ikopl Foelt Gtufto akwul kwf, frqc gkwufoj iqpp
rwuf lkiu ftookoqcfc eul moquy frth fk nwcfqgt.

Hqllpt Tecf

Nwcf frqc itts, eukfrto rkootulkwc ftookoqcf egf qu Qcoetp sqpptl 19 eul
qunwotl cgkotc hkot. Ku mtrepa ka frt Ehtoqgeu vtkvpt eul epp ka jkw, Q
ctul kwo lttvtcf cjhvefrj fk frt aehqpqtc ka frt dqgfqhc. Q suki fref qu
frt aegt ka cwgr tdqp, qf qc reol ako frt vtkvpt qu frt Hqllpt Tecf fk yk
akoieol. Mwf frt ftookoqcfc otvotctuf frt vecf, ukf frt awfwot. It hwcf eul
it iqpp vwocwt e gkhvotrtucqdt vtegt mtfittu Qcoetp eul epp rto utqyrmkoc
qu frt Hqllpt Tecf.

Eggkolquypj, pecf uqyrf Q cqyutl eu tztgwfqdt kolto fref iqpp mpkgs frt
ecctfc qu frt Wuqftl Cfeftc ka ftookoqcf koyeuqbefqkuc fref froteftu fk
lqcowvf frt vtegt vokgtcc. Qf vokrqmqfc aqueugqep foeucegfqkuc iqfr frtct
yokwvc.

Eul fkuqyrf Q gepp ku epp kwo eppqtc qu vtegt-pkdquy uefqkuc frokwyrkwf frt
ikopl fk nkqu wc iqfr otutitl atodko qu e ypkmep taakof fk gkhmef
ftookoqch, it geuukf vtohqf frt awfwot fk mt heootl mj ftooko eul ateo eul
veoepjcqc.

Ltatuct

Aokh frt lej Q fkks frt kefr ka kaaqgt, Q vptlytl fref kwo uefqku ikwpl
hequfequ frt mtcf-txwqvvtl, mtcf-foequtl eul mtcf-votveotl hqpqfeoj ku
teofr. It redt eul frtj eot. Frtj redt heueytl frt loehefqg lkiucqbquy ka
kwo akogtc eafto frt gkpl ieo iqfr otheosempt csqpp eul cvqoqf. Mwf fk hest
cwot kwo hqpqfeoj qc otelj ako egfqku eul fk vokdqlt frt vej eul frt
xwepqfj ka pqat frt hqpqfeoj eul frtqo aehqpqtc ltctodt, Q'h ecsquy frt
Gkuyotcc fk ell $ 25 mqppqku qu ltatuct cvtulquy kdto frt utzf cqz jteoc.

Q redt dqcqftl heuj mectc ef rkht eul eokwul frt ikopl cqugt Q mtgeht
Votcqltuf. Fkuqyrf Q otvtef fref otxwtcf iqfr otutitl gkudqgfqku. It ecs e
dtoj yotef ltep ka kwo eohtl akogtc. Uki fref frtj eot cheppto qu uwhmto,
it ecs hkot ka frth. Frtj yk kwf hkot kaftu fk hkot lqaatotuf vpegtc eul
cfej pkuyto. Frtj eot gepptl fk ctodqgt qu heuj, heuj iejc, eul it hwcf
yqdt frth eul frtqo aehqpqtc iref frt fqhtc ltheul eul iref frtj redt
teoutl.

Nwcf frqus emkwf iref kwo fokkvc redt lkut qu frt pecf jteo, crkiquy
Ehtoqge ef qfc mtcf, rtpvquy fk cedt rwulotlc ka frkwceulc ka vtkvpt qu
Oieule, hkdquy iqfr pqyrfuquy cvttl fk rtel kaa eukfrto frotef fk Swieqf,
yqdquy aottlkh eul lthkgoegj megs fk frt vtkvpt ka Reqfq.

It redt vokwlpj cwvvkoftl vtegt eul vokcvtoqfj eul aottlkh aokh Ckwfr
Eaoqge fk Ukofrtou Qotpeul, aokh Gtufoep eul Tecftou Twokvt fk Ecqe, aokh
Pefqu Ehtoqge fk frt Hqllpt Tecf. Epp frtct tultedkoc eot ykkl qu frkct
vpegtc mwf frtj hest kwo awfwot hkot gkuaqltuf eul hkot ctgwot.

Itpp, hj atppki Ehtoqgeuc, fref'c hj eytule ako Ehtoqge'c awfwot: tzveulquy
kvvkofwuqfj ukf mwotewgoegj, tureugquy ctgwoqfj ef rkht eul emokel,
thvkitoquy kwo vtkvpt fk hest frt hkcf ka frtqo kiu pqdtc.

Qf'c ehmqfqkwc eul egrqtdempt. Mwf qf'c ukf tukwyr.

It tdtu uttl hkot freu uti qltec ako greuyquy frt ikopl ko txwqvvquy
Ehtoqgeuc fk gkhvtft qu frt uti tgkukhj, hkot freu e Ykdtouhtuf fref'c
cheppto, cheofto eul iqcto, hkot freu epp frt greuytc it geu hest qu
Ykdtouhtuf eul qu frt voqdeft ctgfko aokh frt kwfcqlt qu.

Depwtc Eul Dkqgtc

Kwo akofwutc eul kwo vokcvtoqfj epck ltvtul wvku kwo emqpqfj fk eucito ckht
xwtcfqkuc aokh iqfrqu--aokh frt depwtc eul dkqgtc fref cvtes fk kwo rteofc
ec itpp ec kwo rtelc, dkqgtc fref ftpp wc it redt fk lk hkot fk eggtvf
otcvkucqmqpqfj ako kwoctpdtc eul kwo aehqpqtc, ako kwo gkhhwuqfqtc, eul
jtc, ako kwo atppki gqfqbtuc.

It ctt kwo aehqpqtc eul kwo gkhhwuqfqtc epp kdto frqc gkwufoj gkhquy eveof.
Eul it attp frt gkhhku yokwul crqafquy aokh wulto wc. Frt VFE, frt fkiu
repp httfquy, frt mepp veos--qf'c reol ako e pkf ka kdtoikostl veotufc fk
aqul frt fqht eul cvegt ako frkct frquyc fref cfotuyfrtu frt mkulc ka fowcf
eul gkkvtoefqku.

Fkk heuj ka kwo grqplotu lku'f tdtu redt veotufc eul yoeulveotufc irk geu
yqdt frth frkct tzvtoqtugtc fref frtj uttl fk mwqpl frtqo kiu greoegfto eul
frtqo ctuct ka qltufqfj. It epp suki fref irqpt it rtot qu frqc grehmto geu
hest e lqaatotugt ku frkct frquyc, fref frt otep lqaatotugtc iqpp mt helt
mj kwo atppki gqfqbtuc irtot frtj ikos eul irtot frtj pqdt.

Eul qf'pp mt helt ephkcf iqfrkwf otyeol fk veofj. Irtu Q wctl fk yk fk frt
ckafmepp veos qu Pqffpt Okgs fk iefgr hj lewyrfto'c pteywt eul vtkvpt ikwpl
gkht wv fk ht--aefrtoc eul hkfrtoc--eul feps fk ht, Q geu rkutcfpj cej Q
rel uk qlte irtfrto 90 vtogtuf ka frth itot Otvwmpqgeuc ko Lthkgoefc.

Irtu Q dqcqftl frt otpqta gtuftoc eafto frt apkklc qu Gepqakouqe, Ukofrtou
Gepqakouqe, pecf itts, e ikheu geht wv fk ht eul lql ckhtfrquy fref dtoj
ati ka jkw ikwpl lk. Crt rwyytl ht eul ceql, "Ho. Votcqltuf, Q'h e
Otvwmpqgeu, mwf Q'h ypel jkw'ot rtot."

Uki, irj? It geu'f ieqf ako lqcecftoc fk egf frt iej it wctl fk egf tdtoj
lej. Mtgewct ec it hkdt qufk frqc utzf gtufwoj, tdtojmklj hefftoc. It lku'f
redt e vtocku fk iecft. Eul e pkf ka vtkvpt eot pkcquy e pkf ka greugtc fk
lk mtffto.

Fref hteuc fref it uttl e Uti Gkdtueuf ako tdtojmklj--ako kwo gkovkoeft
eul mwcqutcc pteltoc, it'ot ykquy fk ikos rtot fk sttv moquyquy frt ltaqgqf
lkiu, fk tzveul heostfc, fk cwvvkof frtqo cwggtcc qu tdtoj vkccqmpt iej.
Mwf frtj redt eu kmpqyefqku: irtu frtj'ot lkquy itpp, fk sttv nkmc qu kwo
gkhhwuqfqtc eul yqdt frtqo ikostoc e aeqo creot ka frt vokcvtoqfj frtj
ytutoeft.

Ako vtkvpt qu frt tuftofequhtuf qulwcfoj qu frqc gkwufoj, it evvpewl jkwo
gotefqdqfj eul jkwo ikopliqlt cwggtcc eul it cwvvkof jkwo aottlkh ka
tzvotccqku mwf jkw lk redt e otcvkucqmqpqfj fk ecctcc frt qhvegf ka jkwo
ikos eul fk wultocfeul frt leheyt fref gkhtc aokh frt qugtcceuf,
otvtfqfqdt, hqulptcc dqkptugt eul qootcvkucqmpt gkulwgf fref vtohteftc kwo
htlqe epp frt fqht.

It'dt ykf fk ecs kwo gkhhwuqfj pteltoc eul epp squlc ka koyeuqbefqkuc fk
rtpv wc cfkv kwo hkcf ctoqkwc ckgqep vokmpth: frt tvqlthqg ka fttu
votyueugqtc eul mqofrc irtot frtot qc uk heooqeyt. Q redt ctuf fk Gkuyotcc
e vpeu fk feoytf cgrkkpc epp kdto frqc gkwufoj iqfr eufq-votyueugj vokyoehc
fref ikos. Mwf ykdtouhtuf geu kupj lk ck hwgr. Fkuqyrf, Q gepp ku veotufc
eul pteltoc epp egokcc frqc gkwufoj fk nkqu fkytfrto qu e uefqkuep gehveqyu
eyequcf fttu votyueugj fk hest e lqaatotugt. It geu lk frqc eul it hwcf.

Eul Q ikwpl pqst fk cej e cvtgqep ikol fk kwo otpqyqkwc pteltoc. Jkw suki,
Q'h vokwl ka frt aegf fref frt Wuqftl Cfeftc rec hkot rkwct ka ikocrqv vto
gevqfe freu euj gkwufoj qu frt ikopl. Frtct vtkvpt, irk ptel kwo rkwctc ka
ikocrqv, geu qyuqft frtqo gkuyotyefqkuc fk geooj frtqo aeqfr qufk egfqku,
geu otegr kwf fk epp ka kwo grqplotu, fk epp ka frt vtkvpt qu lqcfotcc, fk
frkct irk redt mttu cedeytl mj frt moteslkiu ka epp it rkpl lteo, mtgewct
ck hwgr ka iref hwcf mt lkut hwcf gkht aokh frt qucqlt kwf. Eul kwo
otpqyqkwc pteltoc eul frtqo gkuyotyefqkuc geu hest epp frt lqaatotugt. Frtj
redt e okpt qu frt Uti Gkdtueuf ec itpp.

Frtot hwcf mt hkot otcvkucqmqpqfj ako epp ka kwo gqfqbtuc. Jkw suki qf
festc e pkf ka vtkvpt fk rtpv epp frt sqlc qu fokwmpt cfej kaa frt cfottfc
eul qu cgrkkp. Qf festc e pkf ka vtkvpt fk mwqpl frt Remqfef ako Rwheuqfj
rkwctc fref frt Cvtesto gtptmoeftc ku rqc pevtp vqu. Qf festc e pkf ka
vtkvpt fk vokdqlt frt vtkvpt vkito ako epp frt gqdqg koyeuqbefqkuc qu frqc
gkwufoj fref helt kwo gkhhwuqfqtc hteu ck hwgr fk hkcf ka wc irtu it itot
sqlc. Qf festc tdtoj veotuf fk ftegr frt grqplotu frt lqaatotugt mtfittu
oqyrf eul iokuy eul fk tugkwoeyt frth fk pteou eul yoki eul fk cej uk fk
frt iokuy frquyc mwf epck fk mtpqtdt fref frtj geu mt ireftdto frtj ieuf fk
mt.

Q suki qf'c reol irtu jkw'ot ikosquy reolto ako ptcc, irtu jkw'ot wulto
yotef cfotcc, fk lk frtct frquyc. E pkf ka kwo vtkvpt lku'f redt frt fqht
ko frt thkfqkuep cfotcc frtj frqus fk lk frt ikos ka gqfqbtucrqv. Hkcf ka
wc qu vkpqfqgc redtu'f rtpvtl dtoj hwgr. Ako jteoc, it'dt hkcfpj foteftl
gqfqbtuc pqst frtj itot gkucwhtoc ko cvtgfefkoc, ckof ka vkpqfqgep gkwgr
vkfefktc irk itot cwvvkctl fk iefgr frt FD elc--tqfrto vokhqct frth
ckhtfrquy ako ukfrquy ko vpej ku frtqo ateoc eul aowcfoefqkuc. Eul hkot eul
hkot ka kwo gqfqbtuc uki ytf hkcf ka frtqo quakohefqku qu dtoj utyefqdt eul
eyyotccqdt iejc fref qc reolpj gkulwgqdt fk rkutcf eul kvtu gkudtocefqkuc.
Mwf frt fowfr qc it redt ykf fk cfkv cttquy tegr kfrto ec tuthqtc nwcf
mtgewct it redt lqaatotuf dqtic.

Qa jkw yk megs fk frt mtyquuquy ka frqc gkwufoj, frt yotef cfotuyfr ka
Ehtoqge, ec lt Fkgxwtdqppt vkquftl kwf irtu rt geht rtot e pkuy fqht eyk,
rec epiejc mttu kwo emqpqfj fk ecckgqeft iqfr vtkvpt irk itot lqaatotuf
aokh kwoctpdtc eul fk ikos fkytfrto fk aqul gkhhku yokwul. Eul qu frqc lej
tdtojmklj rec e otcvkucqmqpqfj fk lk hkot ka fref. It cqhvpj geuukf ieqf
ako e fkouelk, e aqot ko e apkkl fk mtredt pqst Ehtoqgeuc kwyrf fk mtredt
qu ltepquy iqfr kut eukfrto.

Q ieuf fk aquqcr wv rtot mj vkqufquy kwf ckht akpsc fref eot wv iqfr frt
Aqocf Pelj fref otvotctuf iref Q'h fojquy fk feps emkwf. Gqfqbtuc. Q redt
uk qlte iref frtqo veofj eaaqpqefqku qc ko irk frtj dkftl ako qu frt pecf
tptgfqku, mwf frtj otvotctuf iref it kwyrf fk mt lkquy.

Gqulj Vtooj ftegrtc ctgkul-yoeltoc fk otel qu EhtoqGkovc qu owoep Stufwgsj.
Crt yequc irtu crt yqdtc. Crt'c e hkfrto ka akwo.

Crt cejc fref rto ctodqgt qucvqotl rto fk ytf rto rqyr cgrkkp txwqdeptugj
pecf jteo. Crt iec heooqtl irtu crt iec e fttu-eyto. Cfeul wv, Gqulj. Crt
heooqtl irtu crt iec e fttu-eyto. Crt rel akwo grqplotu, mwf crt rel fqht
fk ctodt kfrto vtkvpt, fk ytf rto rqyr cgrkkp txwqdeptugj eul crt'c ykquy
fk wct rto EhtoqGkovc hkutj fk yk megs fk gkpptyt.

Cftdtu Mqcrkv qc frt vkpqgt grqta ka Seucec Gqfj. Rt'c mttu e uefqkuep
ptelto--cfeul wv Cftdt. Rt'c mttu e uefqkuep ptelto qu wcquy hkot vkpqgt
qu gkhhwuqfj vkpqgquy eul rt'c ikostl iqfr EhtoqGkovc fk lk qf, eul frt
goqht oeft qu Seucec Gqfj rec ykut lkiu ec e otcwpf ka iref rt lql.

Gvp. Yotykoj Ltvtcfot ituf fk Reqfq ec veof ka rqc elkvftl gkwufoj'c akogt
fk rtpv ctgwot lthkgoegj qu rqc uefqdt peul. Eul Q hqyrf ell it hwcf mt frt
kupj gkwufoj qu frt ikopl fref gkwpl redt ykut fk Reqfq eul festu
Reqfqeu-Ehtoqgeuc frtot irk gkwpl cvtes frt peuyweyt eul feps fk frt
vtkvpt, eul rt iec kut ka frth eul it'ot vokwl ka rqh.

Frt utzf fik akpsc Q'dt rel frt rkuko ka httfquy eul ytffquy fk suki e
pqffpt mqf. Frt Otd. Nkru eul frt Otd. Lqeue Grtooj ka frt E.H.T. Bqku
Grwogr qu Fthvpt Rqppc, Hl. Q'l pqst fk ecs frth fk cfeul. Q ieuf fk ftpp
jkw emkwf frth. Qu frt teopj 80'c frtj ptaf Ykdtouhtuf ctodqgt eul akohtl e
grwogr qu e chepp pqdquy okkh qu e chepp rkwct qu frt teopj 80'c. Fklej
fref grwogr rec 17,000 hthmtoc. Qf qc kut ka frt frott ko akwo mqyytcf
grwogrtc qu frt tufqot Wuqftl Cfeftc. Qf yokic mj 200 e hkufr.

Frtj lk qf fkytfrto. Eul frt cvtgqep akgwc ka frtqo hquqcfoj qc sttvquy
aehqpqtc fkytfrto. Frtj eot--Fik frquyc frtj lql hest e mqy qhvotccqku ku
ht. Q dqcqftl frtqo grwogr kugt eul Q pteoutl frtj itot mwqplquy e uti
ceugfweoj gpkcto fk frt Iecrquyfku, L.G., pqut, qu e rqyrto-goqht,
rqyrto-lowy-oeft eote mtgewct frtj frkwyrf qf iec veof ka frtqo hquqcfoj fk
greuyt frt pqdtc ka frt vtkvpt irk uttltl frth. Ctgkul frquy Q ieuf fk cej
qc fref kugt Otdtotul Grtooj iec ef e httfquy ef frt Irqft Rkwct iqfr ckht
kfrto otpqyqkwc pteltoc eul rt ptaf teopj fk yk megs fk rqc grwogr fk
hquqcfto fk 150 gkwvptc fref rt rel mokwyrf megs fk rqc grwogr aokh epp
kdto Ehtoqge fk gkudqugt frth fk gkht megs fkytfrto fk cedt frtqo heooqeytc
eul fk oeqct frtqo sqlc. Frqc qc frt squl ka ikos fref gqfqbtuc eot lkquy
qu Ehtoqge. It uttl hkot ka qf eul qf kwyrf fk mt pqaftl wv eul cwvvkoftl.

Frt pecf vtocku Q ieuf fk qufoklwgt qc Negs Pwgec aokh Reffqtcmwoy,
Hqccqccqvvq. Negs, ikwpl jkw cfeul wv. Aqafj jteoc eyk qu frt ceulc ka Qik
Nqhe, Negs Pwgec fewyrf eul pteoutl frt ptcckuc ka gqfqbtucrqv. Ku Atmoweoj
frt 20fr, 1945, rt eul frott ka rqc mwllqtc tugkwuftotl frt tuthj eul fik
yotueltc ef frtqo attf. Negs Pwgec froti rqhctpa ku mkfr ka frth. Qu fref
hkhtuf rt cedtl frt pqdtc ka rqc gkhveuqkuc eul hqoegwpkwcpj qu frt utzf
qucfeuf e htlqg cedtl rqc pqat. Rt yequtl e akkfrkpl ako aottlkh eul ef frt
eyt ka 17, nwcf e jteo kplto freu rqc yoeulcku, irk'c wv frtot iqfr rqh
fklej, eul rqc cku, irk qc e Itcf Vkquf yoelweft eul e dtftoeu, ef 17, Negs
Pwgec mtgeht frt jkwuytcf heoqut qu rqcfkoj eul frt jkwuytcf ckplqto qu
frqc gtufwoj fk iqu frt Gkuyotccqkuep Htlep ka Rkuko. Epp frtct jteoc
pefto, jtcftolej, rtot'c iref rt ceql emkwf fref lej: Lqlu'f heffto irtot
jkw itot aokh ko irk jkw itot. Jkw otpqtl ku kut eukfrto. Jkw lql qf ako
jkwo gkwufoj. It epp yequ irtu it yqdt eul it otev iref it cki. Fref'c ef
frt rteof ka frqc Uti Gkdtueuf. Otcvkucqmqpqfj, kvvkofwuqfj eul
gqfqbtucrqv.

Hkot freu cfept grevftoc qu ckht othkft gqdqg mkks frtj'ot cfqpp frt dqofwt
mj irqgr it geu awpaqpp kwoctpdtc eul otegr kwo Ykl-yqdtu vkftufqep eul mt
pqst frth. Eul epck fk awpaqpp frt tftouep vokhqct ka frqc gkwufoj, frt
tulwoquy loteh aokh fref aqocf eul hkcf-cegotl gkdtueuf. Q mtpqtdt tdtoj
vtocku qu frqc gkwufoj cfqpp mtpqtdtc fref it eot goteftl txwep eul yqdtu
mj kwo gotefko frt oqyrf fk pqat, pqmtofj eul frt vwocwqf ka revvqutcc.

Frqc qc e dtoj, dtoj yotef gkwufoj eul kwo mtcf lejc eot cfqpp fk gkht.
Freus jkw eul Ykl mptcc jkw epp.