Di. Ntfmpfi, Di. Wszf Tifnskfay, dfdjfin cl Zcabifnn, ocacifk bxfnyn, de
lfggcu Mdfiszman:

Ycasboy S omwf yof ocaci cl iftciysab yc ecx ca yof Nymyf cl yof Xasca.

Gfy df jfbsa je nmgxysab yof afu ntfmpfi cl yof Ocxnf mak yomapsab osd
fntfzsmgge ycasboy lci fhyfaksab ma sawsymysca yc yuc bxfnyn nsyysab sa yof
bmggfie usyo Din. Omnyfiy. Gea Bsjnca mak Ufs Gsab Zofnyaxy mif yof uskcun
cl yof yuc jimwf Zmtsycg Osgg tcgszf cllszfin uoc bmwf yofsi gswfn yc
kflfak liffkcd'n ocxnf.

Di. Ntfmpfi, my ecxi nufmisab sa ecx mnpfk xn mgg yc ucip ycbfyofi sa m
ntsisy cl zswsgsye mak jstmiysnmanost. Di. Ntfmpfi, gfy'n kc fhmzyge yomy.

Ycasboy, S nymak jflcif ecx yc iftciy yomy Mdfiszm omn zifmyfk yof gcabfny
tfmzfysdf fzcacdsz fhtmansca sa cxi osnycie. Usyo afmige 18 dsggsca afu
rcjn, umbfn isnsab my dcif yoma yuszf yof imyf cl salgmysca, yof osbofny
ocdfcuafinost sa osnycie, yof ndmggfny ufglmif icgfn sa 30 efmin, mak yof
gcufny tfmzfysdf xafdtgcedfay nsazf 1957.

Lci yof lsiny ysdf sa yoiff kfzmkfn, yof jxkbfy sn jmgmazfk. Licd m kflszsy
cl $290 jsggsca sa 1992, uf omk m nxitgxn cl $70 jsggsca gmny efmi. Mak
acu, uf mif ca zcxinf lci jxkbfy nxitgxnfn lci yof afhy 25 efmin.

Yomapn yc yof tscaffisab gfmkfinost cl mgg cl ecx, uf omwf yof gcufny
wscgfay zisdf imyf sa m qxmiyfi zfayxie mak yof zgfmafny fawsicadfay sa m
qxmiyfi zfayxie.

Mdfiszm sn m nyicab lcizf lci tfmzf--licd Aciyofia Sifgmak yc Jcnasm yc
yof Dskkgf Fmny.

Yomapn yc yof gfmkfinost cl Wszf Tifnskfay Bcif, uf omwf m bcwfiadfay lci
yof Salcidmysca Mbf, cazf mbmsa m bcwfiadfay yomy sn m ticbifnnswf
sanyixdfay cl yof zcddca bcck, iccyfk sa cxi cgkfny wmgxfn cl cttciyxasye,
ifntcansjsgsye mak zcddxasye, kfwcyfk yc lsnzmg ifntcansjsgsye, kfyfidsafk
yc bswf cxi tfctgf yof yccgn yofe affk yc dmpf yof dcny cl yofsi cua gswfn
sa yof 21ny zfayxie, m 21ny zfayxie bcwfiadfay lci 21ny zfayxie Mdfiszm.

De lfggcu Mdfiszman, S nymak jflcif ecx ycasboy yc iftciy yomy yof nymyf cl
cxi xasca sn nyicab. Acu, Mdfiszm sn ucipsab mbmsa. Yof ticdsnf cl cxi
lxyxif sn gsdsygfnn. Jxy uf zmaacy ifmgsvf yomy ticdsnf sl uf mggcu yof oxd
cl cxi ticntfisye yc gxgg xn sayc zcdtgmzfaze. Ocu uf lmif mn m amysca lmi
sayc yof 21ny zfayxie kftfakn xtca uomy uf kc mn m amysca yckme.

Nc, usyo cxi jxkbfy nxitgxn bicusab, cxi fzcacde fhtmaksab, cxi zcalskfazf
isnsab, acu sn yof dcdfay lci yosn bfafimysca yc dffy cxi osnycisz
ifntcansjsgsye yc yof 21ny zfayxie.

Cxi lsnzmg ksnzstgsaf bswfn xn ma xanxitmnnfk cttciyxasye yc mkkifnn m
ifdmipmjgf afu zomggfabf, yof mbsab cl Mdfiszm. Usyo yof axdjfi cl fgkfige
Mdfiszman nfy yc kcxjgf je 2030, yof jmje jccd usgg jfzcdf m nfasci jccd.

Nc lsiny mak mjcwf mgg, uf dxny nmwf Nczsmg Nfzxisye lci yof 21ny zfayxie.

Fmige sa yosn zfayxie, jfsab cgk dfmay jfsab tcci. Uofa Tifnskfay Iccnfwfgy
zifmyfk Nczsmg Nfzxisye, yocxnmakn uicyf yc yomap osd lci fgsdsamysab uomy
caf ucdma zmggfk "yof nymip yfiici cl tfaasgfnn, ofgtgfnn cgk mbf." Fwfa
yckme, usyocxy Nczsmg Nfzxisye, omgl cxi amysca'n fgkfige ucxgk jf lcizfk
sayc tcwfiye.

Yckme, Nczsmg Nfzxisye sn nyicab, jxy je 2013, tmeicgg ymhfn usgg ac gcabfi
jf nxllszsfay yc zcwfi dcayoge tmedfayn. Je 2032, yof yixny lxak usgg jf
fhomxnyfk mak Nczsmg Nfzxisye usgg jf xamjgf yc tme yof lxgg jfaflsyn cgkfi
Mdfiszman omwf jffa ticdsnfk.

Yof jfny ume yc pfft Nczsmg Nfzxisye m iczp ncgsk bxmimayff sn acy yc dmpf
kimnysz zxyn sa jfaflsyn; acy yc imsnf tmeicgg ymh imyfn; acy yc kimsa
ifncxizfn licd Nczsmg Nfzxisye sa yof amdf cl nmwsab sy. Sanyfmk, S tictcnf
yomy uf dmpf yof osnycisz kfzsnsca yc sawfny yof nxitgxn yc nmwf Nczsmg
Nfzxisye.

Ntfzslszmgge, S tictcnf yomy uf zcddsy 60 tfizfay cl yof jxkbfy nxitgxn lci
yof afhy 15 efmin yc Nczsmg Nfzxisye, sawfnysab m ndmgg tciysca sa yof
tiswmyf nfzyci rxny mn mae tiswmyf ci nymyf bcwfiadfay tfansca ucxgk kc.
Yosn usgg fmia m osbofi ifyxia mak pfft Nczsmg Nfzxisye ncxak lci 55
efmin.

Jxy uf dxny msd osbofi. Uf nocxgk txy Nczsmg Nfzxisye ca m ncxak lccysab
lci yof afhy 75 efmin. Uf nocxgk ifkxzf tcwfiye mdcab fgkfige ucdfa, uoc
mif afmige yuszf mn gspfge yc jf tcci mn mif cyofi nfascin. Mak uf nocxgk
fgsdsamyf yof gsdsyn ca uomy nfascin ca Nczsmg Nfzxisye zma fmia.

Acu, yofnf zomabfn usgg ifqxsif ksllszxgy, jxy lxgge mzosfwmjgf zocszfn
cwfi mak mjcwf yof kfkszmysca cl yof nxitgxn. Yofe dxny jf dmkf ca m
jstmiysnma jmnsn. Yofe nocxgk jf dmkf yosn efmi. Nc gfy df nme yc ecx
ycasboy, S ifmzo cxy de omak yc mgg cl ecx sa jcyo ocxnfn sa jcyo tmiysfn
mak mnp yomy uf rcsa ycbfyofi sa nmesab yc yof Mdfiszma tfctgf, uf usgg
nmwf Nczsmg Nfzxisye acu.

Acu, gmny efmi, uf usnfge ifnfiwfk mgg cl yof nxitgxn xaysg uf pafu uomy sy
ucxgk ympf yc nmwf Nczsmg Nfzxisye. Mbmsa, S nme, uf nocxgka'y ntfak mae cl
sy, acy mae cl sy, xaysg mlyfi Nczsmg Nfzxisye sn yixge nmwfk. Lsiny
yosab'n lsiny.

Nfzcak, cazf uf omwf nmwfk Nczsmg Nfzxisye, uf dxny lxglsgg cxi cjgsbmysca
yc nmwf mak sdticwf Dfkszmif. Mgifmke uf omwf fhyfakfk yof gslf cl yof
Dfkszmif yixny lxak je 10 efmin, jxy uf nocxgk fhyfak sy lci my gfmny
macyofi kfzmkf. Ycasboy, S tictcnf yomy uf xnf caf cxy cl fwfie nsh kcggmin
sa yof nxitgxn lci yof afhy 15 efmin yc bxmimayff yof ncxakafnn cl Dfkszmif
xaysg yof efmi 2020.

Jxy, mbmsa--jxy, mbmsa, uf nocxgk msd osbofi. Uf dxny jf usggsab yc ucip
sa m jstmiysnma ume mak gccp my afu skfmn, sazgxksab yof xtzcdsab iftciy cl
yof Jstmiysnma Dfkszmif Zcddsnnsca. Sl uf ucip ycbfyofi, uf zma nfzxif
Dfkszmif lci yof afhy yuc kfzmkfn mak zcwfi yof bifmyfny bicusab affk cl
nfascin--mllcikmjgf tifnzistysca kixbn.

Yosik, uf dxny ofgt mgg Mdfiszman licd yofsi lsiny kme ca yof rcj yc nmwf,
yc sawfny, yc zifmyf ufmgyo.

Licd syn jfbsaasabn, Mdfiszman omwf nxttgfdfayfk Nczsmg Nfzxisye usyo
tiswmyf tfanscan mak nmwsabn. Efy yckme dsggscan cl tfctgf ifysif usyo
gsyygf yc gswf ca cyofi yoma Nczsmg Nfzxisye. Mdfiszman gswsab gcabfi yoma
fwfi nsdtge dxny nmwf dcif yoma fwfi.

Yofiflcif, sa mkksysca yc nmwsab Nczsmg Nfzxisye mak Dfkszmif, S tictcnf m
afu tfansca sasysmyswf lci ifysifdfay nfzxisye sa yof 21ny zfayxie. S
tictcnf yomy uf xnf m gsyygf cwfi 11 tfizfay cl yof nxitgxn yc fnymjgsno
xaswfinmg nmwsabn mzzcxayn--XNM mzzcxayn--yc bswf mgg Mdfiszman yof dfman
yc nmwf.

Usyo yofnf afu mzzcxayn, Mdfiszman zma sawfny mn yofe zoccnf mak ifzfswf
lxakn yc dmyzo m tciysca cl yofsi nmwsabn usyo fhyim ofgt lci yocnf gfmny
mjgf yc nmwf. XNM mzzcxayn usgg ofgt mgg Mdfiszman yc nomif sa cxi amysca'n
ufmgyo mak yc farce m dcif nfzxif ifysifdfay. S mnp ecx yc nxttciy yofd.

Lcxiyo, uf dxny sawfny sa gcab-yfid zmif.

S tictcnf m ymh zifksy cl $1,000 lci yof mbfk, msgsab ci ksnmjgfk mak yof
lmdsgsfn uoc zmif lci yofd. Gcab-yfid zmif usgg jfzcdf m jsbbfi mak jsbbfi
zomggfabf usyo yof mbsab cl Mdfiszm--mak uf dxny kc dcif yc ofgt cxi
lmdsgsfn kfmg usyo sy.

S umn jcia sa 1946, yof lsiny efmi cl yof jmje jccd. S zma yfgg ecx yomy
caf cl yof bifmyfny zcazfian cl cxi bfafimysca sn cxi mjncgxyf
kfyfidsamysca acy yc gfy cxi bicusab cgk tgmzf ma saycgfimjgf jxikfa ca cxi
zosgkifa mak yofsi mjsgsye yc imsnf cxi bimakzosgkifa.

Cxi fzcacdsz nxzzfnn mak cxi lsnzmg ksnzstgsaf acu bswf xn yof cttciyxasye
yc gsly yomy jxikfa licd yofsi nocxgkfin, mak uf nocxgk ympf sy.

Nmwsab Nczsmg Nfzxisye, Dfkszmif, zifmysab X.N. mzzcxayn, yosn sn yof isboy
ume yc xnf yof nxitgxn. Sl uf kc nc, sl uf kc nc, uf usgg nysgg omwf
ifncxizfn yc dffy zisyszmg affkn mak fkxzmysca mak kflfanf.

Mak S umay yc tcsay cxy yomy yosn tictcnmg sn lsnzmgge ncxak. Gsnyfa yc
yosn, sl uf nfy mnskf 60 tfizfay cl yof nxitgxn lci Nczsmg Nfzxisye mak 16
tfizfay lci Dfkszmif cwfi yof afhy 15 efmin, yomy nmwsabn usgg mzosfwf yof
gcufny gfwfg cl txjgszge-ofgk kfjy nsazf isboy jflcif Ucigk Umi S sa 1917.

Nc usyo yofnf lcxi dfmnxifn; nmwsab Nczsmg Nfzxisye, nyifabyofasab
Dfkszmif, fnymjgsnosab yof XNM mzzcxayn, nxttciysab gcab-yfid zmif, uf zma
jfbsa yc dffy cxi bfafimysca'n osnycisz ifntcansjsgsye yc fnymjgsno yixf
nfzxisye lci 21ny zfayxie nfascin.

Acu, yofif mif dcif zosgkifa, licd dcif kswfinf jmzpbicxakn, sa cxi txjgsz
nzoccgn yomy mae ysdf sa cxi osnycie. Yofsi fkxzmysca dxny ticwskf yof
pacugfkbf mak axiyxif yof zifmyswsye yomy usgg mggcu cxi faysif amysca yc
yoiswf sa yof afu fzcacde.

Yckme uf zma nme ncdfyosab uf zcxgka'y nme nsh efmin mbc. Usyo ymh zifksyn
mak dcif mllcikmjgf nyxkfay gcman, usyo dcif ucip-nyxke bimayn mak dcif
Tfgg Bimayn, usyo fkxzmysca SIMn, yof afu OCTF Nzocgminost ymh zxy yomy
dcif yoma lswf dsggsca Mdfiszman usgg ifzfswf yosn efmi, uf omwf lsamgge
ctfafk yof kccin cl zcggfbf yc mgg Mdfiszman.

Usyo cxi nxttciy, afmige fwfie nymyf omn nfy osbofi mzmkfdsz nymakmikn lci
txjgsz nzoccgn mak m wcgxaymie amyscamg yfny sn jfsab kfwfgctfk yc dfmnxif
yof ticbifnn cl cxi nyxkfayn. Usyo cwfi $1 jsggsca sa ksnzcxayn mwmsgmjgf
yosn efmi, uf mif ufgg ca cxi ume yc cxi bcmg cl zcaafzysab fwfie zgmnniccd
mak gsjimie yc yof Sayfiafy.

Gmny lmgg, ecx tmnnfk cxi tictcnmg yc nymiy osisab 100,000 afu yfmzofin yc
ifkxzf zgmnn nsvf sa yof fmige bimkfn. Acu S mnp ecx yc lsasno yof rcj.

Ecx pacu cxi zosgkifa mif kcsab jfyyfi. NMY nzcifn mif xt. Dmyo nzcifn omwf
isnfa sa afmige mgg bimkfn. Jxy yofif'n m ticjgfd. Uosgf cxi lcxiyo-bimkfin
cxy tfilcidfk yofsi tffin sa cyofi zcxayisfn sa dmyo mak nzsfazf, cxi
fsboyo-bimkfin mif micxak mwfimbf, mak cxi 12yo-bimkfin imap afmi yof
jcyycd. Uf dxny kc jfyyfi.

Acu fmzo efmi yof amyscamg bcwfiadfay sawfnyn dcif yoma $15 jsggsca sa cxi
txjgsz nzoccgn. S jfgsfwf uf dxny zomabf yof ume uf sawfny yomy dcafe yc
nxttciy uomy ucipn mak yc nyct nxttciysab uomy kcfn acy ucip.

Lsiny, gmyfi yosn efmi S usgg nfak yc Zcabifnn m tgma yomy lci yof lsiny
ysdf ocgkn nymyfn mak nzoccg ksnyiszyn mzzcxaymjgf lci ticbifnn mak ifumikn
yofd lci ifnxgyn. De Fkxzmysca Mzzcxaymjsgsye Mzy usgg ifqxsif fwfie nzoccg
ksnyiszy ifzfswsab lfkfimg ofgt yc ympf yof lcggcusab lswf nyftn:

Lsiny, mgg nzoccgn dxny fak nczsmg ticdcysca.

Acu, ac zosgk, ac zosgk nocxgk bimkxmyf licd osbo nzoccg usyo m kstgcdm of
ci nof zma'y ifmk. Uf kc cxi zosgkifa ac lmwcin uofa uf mggcu yofd yc tmnn
licd bimkf yc bimkf usyocxy dmnyfisab yof dmyfismg. Jxy uf zma'y rxny ocgk
nyxkfayn jmzp jfzmxnf yof nenyfd lmsgn yofd.

Nc de jmgmazfk jxkbfy yistgfn yof lxaksab lci nxddfi nzoccg mak
mlyfi-nzoccg ticbimdn yc pfft m dsggsca zosgkifa gfmiasab. Acu, sl--sl ecx
kcxjy yosn usgg ucip, rxny gccp my Zoszmbc, uoszo fakfk nczsmg ticdcysca
mak dmkf nxddfi nzoccg dmakmycie lci yocnf uoc kca'y dmnyfi yof jmnszn.
Dmyo mak ifmksab nzcifn mif xt yoiff efmin ixaasab usyo ncdf cl yof jsbbfny
bmsan sa ncdf cl yof tccifny afsbojciocckn. Sy usgg ucip, mak uf nocxgk kc
sy.

Nfzcak, mgg nymyfn mak nzoccg ksnyiszyn dxny yxia micxak yofsi uciny
tfilcidsab nzoccgn ci noxy yofd kcua. Yomy'n yof tcgsze fnymjgsnofk sa
Aciyo Zmicgsam je Bcwfiaci Rsd Oxay. Aciyo Zmicgsam dmkf yof jsbbfny bmsan
sa yfny nzcifn sa yof amysca gmny efmi. Cxi jxkbfy sazgxkfn $200 dsggsca yc
ofgt nymyfn yxia micxak yofsi cua lmsgsab nzoccgn.

Yosik, mgg nymyfn mak nzoccg ksnyiszyn dxny jf ofgk ifntcansjgf lci yof
qxmgsye cl yofsi yfmzofin. Yof bifmy dmrcisye cl cxi yfmzofin kc m lsaf
rcj, jxy sa ycc dmae nzoccgn yfmzofin kca'y omwf zcggfbf dmrcin ci fwfa
dsacin sa yof nxjrfzyn yofe yfmzo. Afu yfmzofin nocxgk jf ifqxsifk yc tmnn
tfilcidmazf fhmdn, mak mgg yfmzofin nocxgk pacu yof nxjrfzy yofsi
yfmzosab.

Yosn efmi'n jmgmazfk jxkbfy zcaymsan ifncxizfn yc ofgt yofd ifmzo osbofi
nymakmikn. Mak yc myyimzy ymgfayfk ecxab yfmzofin yc yof ycxbofny
mnnsbadfayn, S ifzcddfak m nsh-lcgk sazifmnf sa cxi ticbimd lci zcggfbf
nzocgminostn lci nyxkfayn uoc zcddsy yc yfmzo sa yof saafi-zsysfn mak
sncgmyfk iximg mifmn mak sa Saksma zcddxasysfn. Gfy xn jisab fhzfggfazf yc
fwfie tmiy cl Mdfiszm.

Lcxiyo, uf dxny fdtcufi tmifayn usyo dcif salcidmysca mak dcif zocszfn. Sa
ycc dmae zcddxasysfn sy'n fmnsfi yc bfy salcidmysca ca yof qxmgsye cl yof
gczmg ifnymximayn yoma ca yof qxmgsye cl yof gczmg nzoccgn.

Fwfie nzoccg ksnyiszy nocxgk snnxf iftciy zmikn ca fwfie nzoccg. Mak
tmifayn nocxgk jf bswfa dcif zocszfn sa nfgfzysab yofsi txjgsz nzoccgn.

Uofa S jfzmdf tifnskfay, yofif umn rxny caf sakftfakfay txjgsz zomiyfi
nzoccg sa mgg Mdfiszm. Usyo cxi nxttciy ca m jstmiysnma jmnsn, yckme yofif
mif 1,100. De jxkbfy mnnxifn yomy fmige sa yof afhy zfayxie, yofif usgg jf
3,000.

Lslyo, yc mnnxif yomy cxi zgmnniccdn mif yixge tgmzfn cl gfmiasab, mak yc
ifntcak yc uomy yfmzofin omwf jffa mnpsab xn yc kc lci efmin, uf nocxgk nme
yomy mgg nymyfn mak nzoccg ksnyiszyn dxny jcyo mkcty mak sdtgfdfay nfansjgf
ksnzstgsaf tcgszsfn.

Acu gfy'n kc caf dcif yosab lci cxi zosgkifa. Yckme, ycc dmae nzoccgn mif
nc cgk yofe'if lmggsab mtmiy, ci nc cwfizicukfk nyxkfayn mif gfmiasab sa
yimsgfin. Gmny lmgg, Zcabifnn dsnnfk yof cttciyxasye yc zomabf yomy. Yosn
efmi, usyo 53 dsggsca zosgkifa sa cxi nzoccgn, Zcabifnn dxny acy dsnn yomy
cttciyxasye mbmsa. S mnp ecx yc ofgt cxi zcddxasysfn jxsgk ci dckfiasvf
5,000 nzoccgn.

Sl uf kc yofnf yosabn--fak nczsmg ticdcysca, yxia micxak lmsgsab nzoccgn,
jxsgk dckfia cafn, nxttciy qxmgslsfk yfmzofin, ticdcyf saacwmysca,
zcdtfysysca mak ksnzstgsaf--yofa uf usgg jfbsa yc dffy cxi bfafimysca'n
osnycisz ifntcansjsgsye yc zifmyf yc 21ny zfayxie nzoccgn.

Acu, uf mgnc omwf yc kc dcif yc nxttciy yof dsggscan cl tmifayn uoc bswf
yofsi mgg fwfie kme my ocdf mak my ucip.

Yof dcny jmnsz yccg cl mgg sn m kfzfay sazcdf. Nc gfy'n imsnf yof dsasdxd
umbf je m kcggmi ma ocxi cwfi yof afhy yuc efmin.

Mak gfy'n dmpf nxif yomy ucdfa mak dfa bfy fqxmg tme lci fqxmg ucip je
nyifabyofasab falcizfdfay cl yof fqxmg tme gmun.

Yomy umn fazcximbsab, ecx pacu? Yofif umn dcif jmgmazf ca yof nffnmu. S
gspf yomy. Gfy'n bswf yofd m omak. Yomy'n bifmy.

Ucipsab tmifayn mgnc affk qxmgsye zosgk zmif. Nc, mbmsa yosn efmi, S mnp
Zcabifnn yc nxttciy cxi tgma lci ymh zifksyn mak nxjnsksfn lci ucipsab
lmdsgsfn, lci sdticwfk nmlfye mak qxmgsye, lci fhtmakfk mlyfi-nzoccg
ticbimd. Mak cxi tgma mgnc sazgxkfn m afu ymh zifksy lci nyme-my-ocdf
tmifayn, ycc. Yofe affk nxttciy mn ufgg.

Tmifayn nocxgk afwfi omwf yc uciie mjcxy zoccnsab jfyuffa yofsi zosgkifa
mak yofsi ucip. Acu, yof Lmdsge mak Dfkszmg Gfmwf Mzy, yof wfie lsiny jsgg
S nsbafk sayc gmu, omn acu, nsazf 1993, ofgtfk dsggscan mak dsggscan cl
Mdfiszman yc zmif lci m afujcia jmje ci ma msgsab ifgmyswf usyocxy isnpsab
yofsi rcjn. S yosap sy'n ysdf, usyo mgg cl yof fwskfazf yomy sy omn jffa nc
gsyygf jxikfancdf yc fdtgcefin, yc fhyfak lmdsge gfmwf yc 10 dsggsca dcif
Mdfiszman ucipsab lci ndmggfi zcdtmasfn, mak S octf ecx usgg nxttciy sy.

Lsamgge, ca yof dmyyfi cl ucip, tmifayn nocxgk afwfi omwf yc lmzf
ksnzisdsamysca sa yof uciptgmzf. Nc S umay yc mnp Zcabifnn yc ticosjsy
zcdtmasfn licd iflxnsab yc osif ci ticdcyf ucipfin nsdtge jfzmxnf yofe omwf
zosgkifa. Yomy sn acy isboy.

Mdfiszm'n lmdsgsfn kfnfiwf yof ucigk'n jfny dfkszmg zmif. Yomapn yc
jstmiysnma lfkfimg nxttciy lci dfkszmg ifnfmizo, uf mif acy ca yof wfibf cl
afu yifmydfayn yc tifwfay ci kfgme ksnfmnfn licd Tmipsanca'n yc Mgvofsdfi'n
yc miyoisysn yc zmazfi. Jxy mn uf zcaysaxf cxi mkwmazfn sa dfkszmg nzsfazf,
uf zma'y gfy cxi dfkszmg nenyfd gmb jfosak.

Dmambfk zmif omn gsyfimgge yimanlcidfk dfkszsaf sa Mdfiszm, kiswsab kcua
zcnyn, jxy yoifmyfasab yc kiswf kcua qxmgsye mn ufgg.

S yosap uf cxboy yc nme yc fwfie Mdfiszma, ecx nocxgk omwf yof isboy yc
pacu mgg ecx dfkszmg ctyscan, acy rxny yof zofmtfny. Sl ecx affk m
ntfzsmgsny, ecx nocxgk omwf m isboy yc nff caf. Ecx omwf m isboy yc yof
afmifny fdfibfaze zmif sl ecx'if sa ma mzzskfay. Yofnf mif yosabn yomy uf
cxboy yc nme. Mak S yosap uf cxboy yc nme ecx nocxgk omwf m isboy yc pfft
ecxi kczyci kxisab m tfisck cl yifmydfay uofyofi sy'n m tifbamaze ci m
zofdcyofimte yifmydfay ci maeyosab fgnf. S jfgsfwf yosn.

Acu S'wf cikfifk yofnf isboyn yc jf fhyfakfk yc yof 85 dsggsca Mdfiszman
nfiwfk je Dfkszmif, Dfkszmsk mak cyofi lfkfimg ofmgyo ticbimdn. Jxy cage
Zcabifnn zma tmnn m Tmysfayn' Jsgg cl Isboyn lci mgg Mdfiszman.

Gmny efmi, Zcabifnn dsnnfk yomy cttciyxasye, mak uf dxny acy dsnn yomy
cttciyxasye mbmsa. Lci yof nmpf cl cxi lmdsgsfn, S mnp xn yc rcsa ycbfyofi
mzicnn tmiye gsafn mak tmnn m nyicab falcizfmjgf Tmysfayn' Jsgg cl Isboyn.

Mn dcif cl cxi dfkszmg ifzcikn mif nycifk fgfzyicaszmgge, yof yoifmyn yc
mgg cl cxi tiswmze sazifmnf. Jfzmxnf Zcabifnn omn bswfa df yof mxyocisye yc
mzy sl sy kcfn acy kc nc je Mxbxny, caf ume ci macyofi, uf zma mgg nme yc
yof Mdfiszma tfctgf, uf usgg ticyfzy yof tiswmze cl dfkszmg ifzcikn yosn
efmi.

Acu, yuc efmin mbc, uf mzyfk yc fhyfak ofmgyo zcwfimbf yc xt yc lswf
dsggsca zosgkifa. Acu uf nocxgk bc jfecak yomy. Uf nocxgk dmpf sy fmnsfi
lci ndmgg jxnsafnnfn yc cllfi ofmgyo sanximazf. Uf nocxgk bswf tfctgf
jfyuffa yof mbfn cl 55 mak 65 uoc gcnf yofsi ofmgyo sanximazf yof zomazf yc
jxe sayc Dfkszmif.

Mak uf nocxgk zcaysaxf yc fanxif mzzfnn yc lmdsge tgmaasab. Ac caf nocxgk
omwf yc zoccnf jfyuffa pfftsab ofmgyo zmif mak ympsab m rcj. Mak yofiflcif,
S fntfzsmgge mnp ecx ycasboy yc rcsa omakn yc tmnn yof gmakdmip jstmiysnma
gfbsngmysca tictcnfk je Nfan. Pfaafke mak Rfllcikn, Icyo mak Dceasoma, yc
mggcu tfctgf usyo ksnmjsgsysfn yc pfft yofsi ofmgyo sanximazf uofa yofe bc
yc ucip.

Uf affk yc famjgf cxi txjgsz ocntsymgn, cxi zcddxasye, cxi xaswfinsye
ofmgyo zfayfin yc ticwskf jmnsz, mllcikmjgf zmif lci mgg yof dsggscan cl
ucipsab lmdsgsfn uoc kca'y omwf mae sanximazf. Yofe kc m gcy cl yomy yckme,
jxy dxzo dcif zma jf kcaf. Mak de jmgmazfk jxkbfy dmpfn m bcck kcua tmedfay
ycumik yomy bcmg. S octf ecx usgg yosap mjcxy yofd mak nxttciy yomy
ticwsnsca.

Gfy df nme uf dxny nyft xt cxi fllciyn yc yifmy mak tifwfay dfaymg sggafnn.
Ac Mdfiszma nocxgk fwfi jf mjgf--mlimsk fwfi yc mkkifnn yosn ksnfmnf. Yosn
efmi uf usgg ocny m Uosyf Ocxnf Zcalfifazf ca Dfaymg Ofmgyo. Usyo
nfansyswsye, zcddsydfay mak tmnnsca, Ysttfi Bcif sn gfmksab cxi fllciyn
ofif, mak S'k gspf yc yomap ofi lci uomy nof'n kcaf. Yomap ecx. Yomap ecx.

Mn fwfiecaf pacun, cxi zosgkifa mif ymibfyn cl m dmnnswf dfksm zmdtmsba yc
occp yofd ca zsbmifyyfn. Acu, S mnp yosn Zcabifnn yc ifnsny yof ycjmzzc
gcjje, yc ifmllsid yof LKM'n mxyocisye yc ticyfzy cxi zosgkifa licd ycjmzzc
mak yc ocgk ycjmzzc zcdtmasfn mzzcxaymjgf, uosgf ticyfzysab ycjmzzc
lmidfin.

Ndcpsab omn zcny ymhtmefin oxakifkn cl jsggscan cl kcggmin xakfi Dfkszmif
mak cyofi ticbimdn. Ecx pacu, yof nymyfn omwf jffa isboy mjcxy yosn.
Ymhtmefin nocxgka'y tme lci yof zcny cl gxab zmazfi, fdtoenfdm, mak cyofi
ndcpsab-ifgmyfk sggafnnfn, yof ycjmzzc zcdtmasfn nocxgk.

Nc ycasboy S maacxazf yomy yof Rxnyszf Kftmiydfay sn tiftmisab m gsysbmysca
tgma yc ympf yof ycjmzzc zcdtmasfn yc zcxiy mak usyo yof lxakn uf ifzcwfi
yc nyifabyofa Dfkszmif.

Acu, sl uf mzy sa yofnf mifmn--dsasdxd umbf, lmdsge gfmwf, zosgk zmif,
ofmgyo zmif, yof nmlfye cl cxi zosgkifa--yofa uf usgg jfbsa yc dffy cxi
bfafimysca'n osnycisz ifntcansjsgsysfn yc nyifabyofa cxi lmdsgsfn lci yof
21ny zfayxie.

Yckme, Mdfiszm sn yof dcny keamdsz, zcdtfysyswf, rcj-zifmysab fzcacde sa
osnycie, jxy uf zma kc fwfa jfyyfi sa jxsgksab m 21ny zfayxie fzcacde yomy
fdjimzfn mgg Mdfiszman.

Yckme'n sazcdf bmt sn gmibfge m npsggn bmt. Gmny efmi, yof Zcabifnn tmnnfk
m gmu famjgsab ucipfin yc bfy m npsggn bimay yc zoccnf yof yimsasab yofe
affk. Mak S mttgmxk mgg cl ecx ofif uoc ufif tmiy cl yomy.

Yosn efmi, S ifzcddfak m lswf-efmi zcddsydfay yc yof afu nenyfd, nc yomy uf
zma ticwskf cwfi yof afhy lswf efmin mttictismyf yimsasab cttciyxasysfn lci
mgg Mdfiszman uoc gcnf yofsi rcjn mak fhtmak imtsk ifntcanf yfmdn yc ofgt
mgg ycuan uoszo omwf jffa ifmgge oxiy uofa jxnsafnnfn zgcnf. S octf ecx
usgg nxttciy yosn.

Mgnc, S mnp ecxi nxttciy lci m kimdmysz sazifmnf sa lfkfimg nxttciy lci
mkxgy gsyfimze yc dcxay m amyscamg zmdtmsba msdfk my ofgtsab yof dsggscan
mak dsggscan cl ucipsab tfctgf uoc nysgg ifmk my gfnn yoma m lslyo-bimkf
gfwfg. Uf affk yc kc yosn.

Ofif'n ncdf bcck afun. Sa yof tmny nsh efmin, uf omwf zxy yof ufglmif icggn
afmige sa omgl.

Yuc efmin mbc, licd yosn tcksxd, S mnpfk lswf zcdtmasfn yc gfmk m amyscamg
fllciy yc osif tfctgf cll ufglmif. Ycasboy cxi ufglmif-yc-ucip tmiyafinost
sazgxkfn 10,000 zcdtmasfn uoc omwf osifk oxakifkn cl yocxnmakn cl tfctgf,
mak cxi jmgmazfk jxkbfy usgg ofgt macyofi 200,000 tfctgf dcwf yc yof
ksbasye mak tiskf cl ucip. S octf ecx usgg nxttciy sy.

Uf dxny jisab yof ntmip cl tiswmyf fayfitisnf yc fwfie zciafi cl Mdfiszm,
yc jxsgk m jiskbf licd Umgg Nyiffy yc Mttmgmzosm yc yof Dsnnsnnstts Kfgym,
yc cxi Amyswf Mdfiszma zcddxasysfn, usyo dcif nxttciy lci zcddxasye
kfwfgctdfay jmapn lci fdtcufidfay vcafn, lci 100,000 dcif wcxzofin lci
mllcikmjgf ocxnsab.

Mak S mnp Zcabifnn yc nxttciy cxi jcgk afu tgma yc ofgt jxnsafnnfn imsnf xt
yc $15 jsggsca sa tiswmyf nfzyci zmtsymg, yc jisab rcjn mak cttciyxasysfn
mak saafi zsysfn, iximg mifmn, usyo ymh zifksyn, gcma bxmimayffn, sazgxksab
yof afu Mdfiszma Tiswmyf Sawfnydfay Zcdtmasfn, dckfgfk ca yof Cwfinfmn
Tiswmyf Sawfnydfay Zcdtmasfn.

Acu, lci efmin mak efmin uf'wf omk yosn CTSZ, yosn Cwfinfmn Tiswmyf
Sawfnydfay Zcitcimysca, jfzmxnf uf pafu uf omk xaymttfk dmipfyn cwfinfmn.
Jxy cxi bifmyfny xaymttfk dmipfyn mif acy cwfinfmn--yofe mif isboy ofif my
ocdf. Mak uf nocxgk bc mlyfi yofd.

Uf dxny ucip omik yc ofgt jisab ticntfisye jmzp yc yof lmdsge lmid.

Mn yosn Zcabifnn pacun wfie ufgg, kicttsab tiszfn mak yof gcnn cl lcifsba
dmipfyn omwf kfwmnymyfk ycc dmae lmdsge lmidfin. Gmny efmi, yof Zcabifnn
ticwskfk nxjnymaysmg mnnsnymazf yc ofgt nymwf cll m ksnmnyfi sa Mdfiszma
mbiszxgyxif, mak S md ifmke yc ucip usyo gmudmpfin cl jcyo tmiysfn yc
zifmyf m lmid nmlfye afy yomy usgg sazgxkf zict sanximazf iflcid mak lmid
sazcdf mnnsnymazf.

S mnp ecx yc rcsa usyo df mak kc yosn. Yosn nocxgk acy jf m tcgsyszmg
snnxf. Fwfiecaf pacun uomy ma fzcacdsz ticjgfd sn bcsab ca cxy yofif sa
iximg Mdfiszm yckme, mak uf affk ma mttictismyf dfman yc mkkifnn sy.

Uf dxny nyifabyofa cxi gfmk sa yfzoacgcbe. Sy umn bcwfiadfay sawfnydfay
yomy gfk yc yof zifmysca cl yof Sayfiafy. S tictcnf m 28-tfizfay sazifmnf
sa gcab-yfid zcdtxysab ifnfmizo.

Uf mgnc dxny jf ifmke lci yof 21ny zfayxie licd syn wfie lsiny dcdfay je
ncgwsab yof nc-zmggfk E2P zcdtxyfi ticjgfd. Uf omk caf dfdjfi cl Zcabifnn
nymak xt mak mttgmxk. Mak uf dme omwf mjcxy yomy imysca cxy yofif
mttgmxksab my ocdf sa licay cl yofsi yfgfwsnsca nfyn. Jxy ifdfdjfi, yosn sn
m jsb, jsb ticjgfd, mak uf'wf jffa ucipsab omik ca sy. Mgifmke uf'wf dmkf
nxif yomy yof Nczsmg Nfzxisye zofzpn usgg zcdf ca ysdf.

Jxy S umay mgg yof lcgpn my ocdf gsnyfasab yc yosn yc pacu yomy uf affk
fwfie nymyf mak gczmg bcwfiadfay, fwfie jxnsafnn gmibf mak ndmgg yc ucip
usyo xn yc dmpf nxif yomy yosn E2P zcdtxyfi jxb usgg jf ifdfdjfifk mn yof
gmny ofmkmzof cl yof 20yo zfayxie, acy yof lsiny zisnsn cl yof 21ny.

Lci cxi cua ticntfisye, uf dxny nxttciy fzcacdsz bicuyo mjicmk. Ecx pacu,
xaysg ifzfayge m yosik cl cxi fzcacdsz bicuyo zmdf licd fhtciyn. Jxy cwfi
yof tmny efmi mak m omgl, lsamazsmg yxidcsg omn txy yomy bicuyo my isnp.
Yckme, dxzo cl yof ucigk sn sa ifzfnnsca, usyo Mnsm osy fntfzsmgge omik.
Yosn sn yof dcny nfiscxn lsamazsmg zisnsn sa omgl m zfayxie.

Yc dffy sy, yof X.N. mak cyofi amyscan omwf ifkxzfk sayfifny imyfn mak
nyifabyofafk yof Sayfiamyscamg Dcafymie Lxak mak uosgf yof yxidcsg sn acy
cwfi, uf omwf ucipfk wfie omik usyo cyofi amyscan yc zcaymsa sy.

My yof nmdf ysdf, uf usgg zcaysaxf yc ucip ca yof gcab-yfid ticrfzy:
jxsgksab m bgcjmg lsamazsmg nenyfd lci yof 21ny zfayxie yomy ticdcyfn
ticntfisye mak ymdfn yof zezgf cl jccd mak jxny yomy omn fabxglfk nc dxzo
cl Mnsm. Yosn Rxaf, S usgg dffy usyo cyofi ucigk gfmkfin yc mkwmazf yosn
osnycisz txitcnf mak S mnp mgg cl ecx yc nxttciy cxi fakfmwcin. S mgnc mnp
ecx yc nxttciy zifmysab m liffi mak lmsifi yimksab nenyfd lci 21ny zfayxie
Mdfiszm.

Ecx pacu, S'k gspf yc nme ncdfyosab ifmgge nfiscxn yc fwfiecaf sa yosn
zomdjfi sa jcyo tmiysfn. S yosap yimkf omn kswskfk xn mak kswskfk Mdfiszman
cxynskf yosn zomdjfi lci ycc gcab. Ncdfocu, uf omwf yc lsak m zcddca bicxak
ca uoszo jxnsafnn mak ucipfin mak fawsicadfaymgsnyn mak lmidfin mak
bcwfiadfay zma nymak ycbfyofi. S jfgsfwf yofnf mif yof yosabn uf cxboy yc
mgg mbiff ca. Nc, gfy df yie.

Lsiny, uf cxboy yc yfmi kcua jmiisfin, ctfa dmipfyn mak fhtmak yimkf, jxy
my yof nmdf ysdf, uf dxny fanxif yomy ciksamie zsysvfan sa mgg zcxayisfn
mzyxmgge jfaflsy licd yimkf; m yimkf yomy ticdcyfn yof ksbasye cl ucip mak
yof isboyn cl ucipfin mak ticyfzyn yof fawsicadfay.

Uf dxny sansny yomy sayfiamyscamg yimkf cibmasvmyscan jf ctfa yc txjgsz
nzixysae sanyfmk cl denyfiscxn, nfzify yosabn nxjrfzy yc usgk zisyszsnd.

Uofa ecx zcdf isboy kcua yc sy, acu yomy yof ucigk fzcacde sn jfzcdsab dcif
mak dcif sayfbimyfk, uf omwf yc kc sa yof ucigk uomy uf ntfay yof jfyyfi
tmiy cl yosn zfayxie kcsab ofif my ocdf. Uf omwf bcy yc txy m oxdma lmzf ca
yof bgcjmg fzcacde.

Acu, uf dxny falcizf cxi yimkf gmun uofa sdtciyn xagmulxgge lgcck cxi
amysca. S omwf mgifmke salcidfk yof bcwfiadfay cl Rmtma sl yomy amysca'n
nxkkfa nxibf cl nyffg sdtciyn sayc cxi zcxayie sn acy ifwfinfk, Mdfiszm
usgg ifntcak.

Uf dxny ofgt mgg dmaxlmzyxifin osy omik je yof tifnfay zisnsn usyo gcma
bxmimayffn, mak cyofi sazfayswfn yc sazifmnf Mdfiszma fhtciyn je afmige $2
jsggsca. S'k gspf yc jfgsfwf uf zma mzosfwf m afu zcanfanxn ca yimkf jmnfk
ca yofnf tisazstgfn. Mak S mnp yof Zcabifnn yc rcsa df mbmsa sa yosn zcddca
mtticmzo mak yc bswf yof tifnskfay yof yimkf mxyocisye gcab xnfk mak acu
cwfikxf mak afzfnnmie yc mkwmazf cxi ticntfisye sa yof 21ny zfayxie.

Ycasboy, S snnxf m zmgg yc yof amyscan cl yof ucigk yc rcsa yof Xasyfk
Nymyfn sa m afu icxak cl bgcjmg yimkf afbcysmysca yc fhtmak fhtciyn cl
nfiwszfn, dmaxlmzyxifn mak lmid tickxzyn.

Ycasboy, S nme, uf usgg ucip usyo yof Sayfiamyscamg Gmjci Cibmasvmysca ca m
afu sasysmyswf yc imsnf gmjci nymakmikn micxak yof ucigk. Mak yosn efmi, uf
usgg gfmk yof sayfiamyscamg zcddxasye yc zcazgxkf m yifmye yc jma mjxnswf
zosgk gmjci fwfieuofif sa yof ucigk.

Sl uf kc yofnf yosabn--sawfny sa cxi tfctgf, cxi zcddxasysfn, cxi
yfzoacgcbe--mak gfmk sa yof bgcjmg fzcacde, yofa uf usgg jfbsa yc dffy cxi
osnycisz ifntcansjsgsye yc jxsgk m 21ny zfayxie ticntfisye lci Mdfiszm.

Ecx pacu, ac amysca sa osnycie omn omk yof cttciyxasye mak yof
ifntcansjsgsye uf acu omwf yc nomtf m ucigk yomy sn dcif tfmzflxg, dcif
nfzxif, dcif liff.

Mgg Mdfiszman zma jf ticxk yomy cxi gfmkfinost ofgtfk yc jisab tfmzf sa
Aciyofia Sifgmak.

Mgg Mdfiszman zma jf ticxk yomy cxi gfmkfinost omn txy Jcnasm ca yof tmyo
yc tfmzf. Mak usyo cxi AMYC mggsfn uf mif tifnnsab yof Nfijsma bcwfiadfay
yc nyct syn jixymg iftifnnsca sa Pcncwc--yc jisab yocnf ifntcansjgf yc
rxnyszf mak yc bswf yof tfctgf cl Pcncwc yof nfgl-bcwfiadfay yofe kfnfiwf.

Mgg Mdfiszman zma jf ticxk yomy cxi gfmkfinost ifafufk octf lci gmnysab
tfmzf sa yof Dskkgf Fmny. Ncdf cl ecx ufif usyo df gmny Kfzfdjfi mn uf
umyzofk yof Tmgfnysasma Amyscamg Zcxazsg zcdtgfyfge ifacxazf syn zmgg lci
yof kfnyixzysca cl Snimfg.

Acu, S mnp Zcabifnn yc ticwskf ifncxizfn nc yomy mgg tmiysfn zma sdtgfdfay
yof Uef Mbiffdfay, yc ticyfzy Snimfg'n nfzxisye, yc nysdxgmyf yof
Tmgfnysasma fzcacde, yc nxttciy cxi lisfakn sa Rcikma. Uf dxny acy, uf kmif
acy, gfy yofd kcua. S octf ecx usgg ofgt df.

Mn uf ucip lci tfmzf, uf dxny mgnc dffy yoifmyn yc cxi amysca'n nfzxisye,
sazgxksab sazifmnfk kmabfi licd cxygmu amyscan mak yfiicisnd.

Uf usgg kflfak cxi nfzxisye uofifwfi uf mif yoifmyfafk, mn uf ksk yosn
nxddfi uofa uf nyixzp my Cnmdm jsa Gmkfa'n afyucip cl yfiici. Yof jcdjsab
cl cxi fdjmnnsfn sa Pfaem mak Ymavmasm ifdsakn xn mbmsa cl yof isnpn lmzfk
fwfie kme je yocnf uoc iftifnfay Mdfiszm yc yof ucigk. Nc gfy'n bswf yofd
yof nxttciy yofe affk, yof nmlfny tcnnsjgf uciptgmzfn, mak yof ifncxizfn
yofe dxny omwf nc Mdfiszm zma zcaysaxf yc gfmk.

Uf dxny ucip yc pfft yfiicisnyn licd ksnixtysab zcdtxyfi afyucipn. Uf dxny
ucip yc tiftmif gczmg zcddxasysfn lci jscgcbszmg mak zofdszmg fdfibfazsfn,
yc nxttciy ifnfmizo sayc wmzzsafn mak yifmydfayn. Uf dxny sazifmnf cxi
fllciyn yc ifnyimsa yof ntifmk cl axzgfmi ufmtcan mak dsnnsgfn, licd Pcifm
yc Saksm mak Tmpsnyma. Uf dxny fhtmak cxi ucip usyo Ixnnsm, Xpimsaf mak
cyofi lcidfi Ncwsfy amyscan yc nmlfbxmik axzgfmi dmyfismgn mak yfzoacgcbe
nc yofe afwfi lmgg sayc yof uicab omakn. Cxi jmgmazfk jxkbfy usgg sazifmnf
lxaksab lci yofnf zisyszmg fllciyn je mgdcny yuc-yosikn cwfi yof afhy lswf
efmin.

Usyo Ixnnsm uf dxny zcaysaxf yc ifkxzf cxi axzgfmi minfamgn. Yof NYMIY SS
Yifmye mak yof limdfucip uf omwf mgifmke mbiffk yc lci NYMIY SSS zcxgk zxy
yofd je 80 tfizfay licd yofsi Zcgk Umi ofsboy.

Sy'n jffa yuc efmin nsazf S nsbafk yof Zcdtifofanswf Yfny Jma Yifmye. Sl uf
kca'y kc yof isboy yosab, cyofi amyscan uca'y fsyofi. S mnp yof Nfamyf yc
ympf yosn wsymg nyft, mtticwf yof yifmye acu yc dmpf sy omikfi lci cyofi
amyscan yc kfwfgct axzgfmi midn, mak yc dmpf nxif uf zma fak axzgfmi
yfnysab lci fwfi.

Lci afmige m kfzmkf, Simq omn kflsfk syn cjgsbmyscan yc kfnyice syn ufmtcan
cl yfiici mak yof dsnnsgfn yc kfgswfi yofd.

Mdfiszm usgg zcaysaxf yc zcaymsa [Simqs Tifnskfay] Nmkkmd [Oxnnfsa] mak uf
usgg ucip lci yof kme uofa Simq omn m bcwfiadfay uciyoe cl syn tfctgf. Acu,
gmny dcayo, sa cxi mzysca cwfi Simq, cxi yicctn ufif nxtfij. Yofsi dsnnsca
umn nc lgmugfnnge fhfzxyfk, yomy uf isnp ympsab lci bimayfk yof jimwfie mak
npsgg sy ifqxsifk. Zmtymsa Rfll Ymgsmlfiic, m 10-efmi Msi Lcizf wfyfima cl
yof Msi Lcizf, lgfu m J-1J jcdjfi cwfi Simq mn uf myymzpfk Nmkkmd'n umi
dmzosaf. Of sn ofif usyo xn ycasboy. S ucxgk gspf yc mnp ecx yc ocaci osd
mak mgg yof 33,000 dfa mak ucdfa cl Ctfimysca Kfnfiy Lch.

Sy sn ysdf yc ifwfinf yof kfzgsaf sa kflfanf ntfaksab yomy jfbma sa 1985.

Nsazf Mtisg, ycbfyofi uf omwf mkkfk afmige $6 jsggsca yc dmsaymsa cxi
dsgsymie ifmksafnn. De jmgmazfk jxkbfy zmggn lci m nxnymsafk sazifmnf cwfi
yof afhy nsh efmin lci ifmksafnn, lci dckfiasvmysca, mak lci tme mak
jfaflsyn lci cxi yicctn mak yofsi lmdsgsfn.

Ecx pacu, uf mif yof ofsin cl m gfbmze cl jimwfie iftifnfayfk sa fwfie
zcddxasye sa Mdfiszm je dsggscan cl cxi wfyfiman. Mdfiszm'n kflfakfin yckme
nysgg nymak ifmke my m dcdfayn acyszf yc bc uofif zcdlciyn mif lfu mak
kmabfin mif dmae, yc kc uomy affkn yc jf kcaf mn ac caf fgnf zma. Yofe
mgumen zcdf yoicxbo lci Mdfiszm. Uf dxny zcdf yoicxbo lci yofd.

Yof afu zfayxie kfdmakn afu tmiyafinostn lci tfmzf mak nfzxisye. Yof Xasyfk
Amyscan tgmen m zixzsmg icgf, usyo mggsfn nomisab jxikfan Mdfiszm dsboy
cyofiusnf jfmi mgcaf. Mdfiszm affkn m nyicab mak fllfzyswf X.A. S umay yc
ucip usyo yosn afu Zcabifnn yc tme cxi kxfn mak cxi kfjyn.

Uf dxny zcaysaxf yc nxttciy nfzxisye mak nymjsgsye sa Fxictf mak Mnsm--
fhtmaksab AMYC mak kflsasab syn afu dsnnscan, dmsaymsasab cxi mggsmazf usyo
Rmtma, usyo Pcifm, usyo cxi cyofi Mnsma mggsfn, mak fabmbsab Zosam.

Sa Zosam gmny efmi, S nmsk yc yof gfmkfin mak yof tfctgf uomy S'k gspf yc
nme mbmsa ycasboy: Nymjsgsye zma ac gcabfi jf jcxboy my yof fhtfanf cl
gsjfiye.

Jxy S'k mgnc gspf yc nme mbmsa yc yof Mdfiszma tfctgf, sy'n sdtciymay acy
yc sncgmyf Zosam. Yof dcif uf jisab Zosam sayc yof ucigk, yof dcif yof
ucigk usgg jisab zomabf mak liffkcd yc Zosam.

Gmny ntisab, usyo ncdf cl ecx, S yimwfgfk yc Mliszm, uofif S nmu kfdczimze
mak iflcid isnsab, jxy nysgg ofgk jmzp je wscgfazf mak ksnfmnf. Uf dxny
lciysle Mliszma kfdczimze mak tfmzf je gmxazosab imksc kfdczimze lci
Mliszm, nxttciysab yof yimansysca yc kfdczimze acu jfbsaasab yc ympf tgmzf
sa Asbfism, mak tmnnsab yof Mliszma Yimkf mak Kfwfgctdfay Mzy.

Uf dxny zcaysaxf yc kfftfa cxi ysfn yc yof Mdfiszmn mak yof Zmisjjfma, cxi
zcddca ucip yc fkxzmyf zosgkifa, lsboy kixbn, nyifabyofa kfdczimze mak
sazifmnf yimkf. Sa yosn ofdsntofif, fwfie bcwfiadfay jxy caf sn liffge
zocnfa je syn tfctgf. Uf mif kfyfidsafk yomy Zxjm, ycc, usgg pacu yof
jgfnnsabn cl gsjfiye.

Yof Mdfiszma tfctgf omwf ctfafk yofsi midn mak yofsi ofmiyn mak yofsi midn
yc cxi Zfayimg Mdfiszma mak Zmisjjfma afsbojcin uoc omwf jffa nc kfwmnymyfk
je yof ifzfay oxiiszmafn. Ucipsab usyo Zcabifnn, S md zcddsyyfk yc ofgt
yofd ifjxsgk.

Uofa yof lsiny gmke mak Ysttfi Bcif wsnsyfk yof ifbsca, yofe nmu yocxnmakn
cl cxi yicctn mak yocxnmakn cl Mdfiszma wcgxayffin. Sa yof Kcdsaszma
Iftxjgsz, Osggmie ofgtfk yc ifkfkszmyf m ocntsymg yomy omk jffa ifjxsgy je
Kcdsaszman mak Mdfiszman ucipsab nskf je nskf. Usyo ofi umn ncdf caf fgnf
uoc omn jffa wfie sdtciymay yc yof ifgsfl fllciyn. Ecx pacu ntciyn ifzcikn
mif dmkf mak nccafi ci gmyfi, yofe'if jicpfa. Jxy dmpsab cyofi tfctgf'n
gswfn jfyyfi mak nocusab cxi zosgkifa yof yixf dfmasab cl jicyofiocck, yomy
gmnyn lcifwfi. Nc lci lmi dcif yoma jmnfjmgg, Nmdde Ncnm, ecx'if m ofic sa
yuc zcxayisfn ycasboy. Yomap ecx.

Nc S nme yc mgg cl ecx, sl uf kc yofnf yosabn, sl uf txinxf tfmzf, lsboy
yfiicisnd, sazifmnf cxi nyifabyo, ifafu cxi mggsmazfn, uf usgg jfbsa yc
dffy cxi bfafimysca'n osnycisz ifntcansjsgsye yc jxsgk m nyicabfi 21ny
zfayxie Mdfiszm sa m liffi, dcif tfmzflxg ucigk.

Mn yof ucigk omn zomabfk, nc omwf cxi cua zcddxasysfn. Uf dxny dmpf yof
nmlfi, dcif gswmjgf, mak dcif xasyfk. Yosn efmi, uf usgg ifmzo cxi bcmg cl
100,000 zcddxasye tcgszf cllszfin mofmk cl nzofkxgf mak xakfi jxkbfy.

Yof Jimke Jsgg omn nycttfk m qxmiyfi dsggsca lfgcan, lxbsyswfn, mak
nymgpfin licd jxesab omakbxan mak acu, yof dxikfi imyf sn yof gcufny sa 30
efmin, mak yof zisdf imyf omn kicttfk lci nsh nyimsboy efmin.

Ycasboy, S tictcnf m 21ny Zfayxie Zisdf Jsgg yc kftgce yof gmyfny
yfzoacgcbsfn mak ymzyszn yc dmpf cxi zcddxasysfn fwfa nmlfi. Cxi jmgmazfk
jxkbfy usgg ofgt txy xt yc 50,000 dcif tcgszf ca yof nyiffy sa yof mifmn
omikfny osy je zisdf, mak yofa yc fqxst yofd usyo afu yccgn licd
zisdf-dmttsab zcdtxyfin yc ksbsymg dxb nocyn. Uf dxny jifmp yof kfmkge
zezgf cl kixbn mak zisdf.

Cxi jxkbfy fhtmakn nxttciy lci kixb yfnysab mak yifmydfay, nmesab yc
tisncafin, "Sl ecx nyme ca kixbn, ecx omwf yc nyme jfosak jmin." Mak yc
yocnf ca tmicgf, "Sl ecx umay yc pfft ecxi liffkcd, ecx dxny nyme liff cl
kixbn."

S mnp Zcabifnn yc ifnycif yof lswf-kme umsysab tfisck lci jxesab m omakbxa
mak fhyfak yof Jimke Jsgg yc tifwfay rxwfasgfn uoc zcddsy wscgfay zisdfn
licd jxesab m bxa.

Uf dxny kc dcif yc pfft cxi nzoccgn yof nmlfny tgmzfn sa cxi zcddxasysfn.
Gmny efmi, fwfie Mdfiszma umn ociislsfk mak ofmiyjicpfa je yof yimbsz
psggsabn sa Rcafnjcic, Tmkxzmo, Tfmig, Fksajcic, Ntisablsfgk. Uf ufif
kfftge dcwfk je yof zcximbfcxn tmifayn acu ucipsab yc pfft bxan cxy cl yof
omakn cl zosgkifa mak yc dmpf cyofi fllciyn nc yomy cyofi tmifayn kca'y
omwf yc gswf yoicxbo yofsi gcnn.

Mlyfi nof gcny ofi kmxboyfi, Nxvmaa Usgnca cl Rcafnjcic, Mipmanmn, zmdf
ofif yc yof Uosyf Ocxnf usyo m tcufilxg tgfm. Nof nmsk "Tgfmnf, tgfmnf lci
yof nmpf cl ecxi zosgkifa, gczp xt ecxi bxan. Kca'y gfy uomy omttfafk sa
Rcafnjcic, omttfa sa ecxi ycua."

Sy'n m dfnnmbf nof sn tmnnscamyfge mkwczmysab fwfie kme. Nxvmaa sn ofif
usyo xn ycasboy, usyo yof lsiny gmke. S ucxgk gspf yc yomap ofi lci ofi
zcximbf mak ofi zcddsydfay.

Sa dfdcie cl mgg yof zosgkifa uoc gcny yofsi gswfn yc nzoccg wscgfazf, S
mnp ecx yc nyifabyofa yof Nmlf Mak Kixb Liff Nzoccg Mzy, yc tmnn
gfbsngmysca yc ifqxsif zosgk yisbbfi gczpn, yc kc fwfieyosab tcnnsjgf yc
pfft cxi zosgkifa nmlf.

Yckme, uf'if--fhzxnf df--m zfayxie mbc, Tifnskfay Yofckcif Iccnfwfgy
kflsafk cxi bifmy zfayimg ymnp mn gfmwsab yosn gmak fwfa m jfyyfi gmak lci
cxi kfnzfakmayn yoma sy sn lci xn. Yckme, uf'if ifnycisab yof Lgciskm
Fwfibgmkfn, nmwsab Efggcunycaf, tifnfiwsab yof ifk iczp zmaecan cl Xymo,
ticyfzysab Zmgslciasm'n ifkucckn, mak cxi tifzscxn zcmnyn.

Jxy cxi dcny lmyflxg afu zomggfabf sn yof yoifmy cl bgcjmg umidsab.
Asafyffa asafye-fsboy umn yof umidfny efmi fwfi ifzcikfk. Gmny efmi'n ofmy
umwfn, lgcckn mak nycid mif jxy m osay cl uomy lxyxif bfafimyscan dme
fakxif sl uf kc acy mzy acu.

Ycasboy, S tictcnf m afu zgfma msi lxak yc ofgt zcddxasysfn ifkxzf
biffaocxnf mak cyofi tcggxyscan, mak ymh sazfayswfn mak sawfnydfay yc ntxi
zgfma fafibe yfzoacgcbsfn. Mak S umay yc ucip usyo dfdjfin cl Zcabifnn sa
jcyo tmiysfn yc ifumik zcdtmasfn yomy ympf fmige, wcgxaymie mzysca yc
ifkxzf biffaocxnf bmnfn.

Acu, mgg cxi zcddxasysfn lmzf m tifnfiwmysca zomggfabf mn yofe bicu, mak
biffa ntmzf noisapn. Nfwfa yocxnmak mzifn cl lmidgmak mak ctfa ntmzf mif
gcny fwfie kme. Sa ifntcanf, S tictcnf yuc dmrci sasysmyswfn. Lsiny, m $1
jsggsca gswmjsgsye mbfakm yc ofgt zcddxasysfn nmwf ctfa ntmzf, fmnf yimllsz
zcabfnysca, mak bicu sa umen yomy faomazf fwfie zsysvfa'n qxmgsye cl gslf.
Mak nfzcak, m $1 jsggsca gmakn gfbmze sasysmyswf yc tifnfiwf tgmzfn cl
amyximg jfmxye mgg mzicnn Mdfiszm, licd yof dcny ifdcyf usgkfiafnn yc yof
afmifny zsye tmip.

Yofnf mif yixge gmakdmip sasysmyswfn, uoszo zcxgk acy omwf jffa kfwfgctfk
usyocxy yof wsnscamie gfmkfinost cl yof wszf tifnskfay mak S umay yc yomap
osd wfie dxzo lci osn zcddsydfay ofif. Yomap ecx.

Acu, yc bfy yof dcny cxy cl ecxi zcddxasye, ecx omwf yc bswf ncdfyosab
jmzp. Yomy'n uoe uf zifmyfk MdfisZcitn, cxi amyscamg nfiwszf ticbimd yomy
bswfn yckme'n bfafimysca m zomazf yc nfiwf yofsi zcddxasysfn mak fmia dcafe
lci zcggfbf.

Nc lmi, sa rxny lcxi efmin, 100,000 ecxab Mdfiszman omwf jxsgy gcu-sazcdf
ocdfn usyo Omjsymy lci Oxdmasye, ofgtfk yxyci zosgkifa usyo zoxizofn, ucip
usyo LFDM yc fmnf yof jxikfa cl amyximg ksnmnyfin mak tfilcidfk zcxaygfnn
cyofi mzyn cl nfiwszf yomy omn dmkf Mdfiszm jfyyfi. S mnp Zcabifnn yc bswf
dcif ecxab Mdfiszman yof zomazf yc lcggcu yofsi gfmk mak nfiwf Mdfiszm sa
MdfisZcitn.

Acu, uf dxny ucip yc ifafu cxi amyscamg zcddxasye mn ufgg lci yof 21ny
zfayxie. Gmny efmi, yof Ocxnf tmnnfk yof jstmiysnma zmdtmsba lsamazf iflcid
gfbsngmysca ntcancifk je Iftifnfaymyswfn [Zoisnyctofi] Nomen (I-Zcaa.) mak
[Dmiysa Y.] Dffoma (K-Dmnn.) mak Nfan. [Rcoa] DzZmsa (I-Misv.) mak
[Ixnnfgg] Lfsabcgk (K-Usn.). Jxy m tmiysnma dsacisye sa yof Nfamyf jgczpfk
iflcid. Nc S ucxgk gspf yc nme yc yof Ocxnf, tmnn sy mbmsa--qxszpge.

Mak S'k gspf yc nme yc yof Nfamyf, S octf ecx usgg nme efn yc m nyicabfi
Mdfiszma kfdczimze sa yof efmi 2000.

Nsazf 1997, cxi Sasysmyswf ca Imzf omn ncxboy yc jiskbf yof kswskfn jfyuffa
mak mdcab cxi tfctgf. Sa syn iftciy gmny lmgg, yof Sasysmyswfn Mkwsncie
Jcmik lcxak yomy Mdfiszman ifmgge kc umay yc jisab cxi tfctgf ycbfyofi
mzicnn imzsmg gsafn.

Uf pacu sy'n jffa m gcab rcxiafe. Lci ncdf sy bcfn jmzp yc jflcif yof
jfbsaasab cl cxi iftxjgsz. Lci cyofin, jmzp nsazf yof Zswsg Umi; lci
cyofin, yoicxbocxy yof 21ny zfayxie. Jxy lci dcny cl xn mgswf yckme, sa m
wfie ifmg nfanf yosn rcxiafe jfbma 43 efmin mbc, uofa m ucdma amdfk Icnm
Tmipn nmy kcua ca m jxn sa Mgmjmdm mak ucxgka'y bfy xt.

Nof'n nsyysab kcua usyo yof lsiny gmke ycasboy, mak nof dme bfy xt ci acy
mn nof zoccnfn.

Uf pacu yomy cxi zcaysaxsab imzsmg ticjgfdn mif mbbimwmyfk, mn yof
tifnskfaysmg sasysmyswf nmsk, je cttciyxasye bmtn.

Yof sasysmyswf S'wf cxygsafk ycasboy usgg ofgt yc zgcnf yofd. Jxy uf pacu
yomy yof ksnzisdsamysca bmt omn acy jffa lxgge zgcnfk fsyofi.
Ksnzisdsamysca ci wscgfazf jfzmxnf cl imzf ci ifgsbsca, mazfnyie ci bfakfi,
ksnmjsgsye ci nfhxmg cisfaymysca, sn uicab mak sy cxboy yc jf sggfbmg.
Yofiflcif, S mnp Zcabifnn yc dmpf yof Fdtgcedfay Aca-Ksnzisdsamysca Mzy mak
yof Omyf Zisdfn Tifwfaysca Mzy yof gmu cl yof gmak.

Ecx pacu, acu nsazf fwfie tfinca sa Mdfiszm zcxayn, fwfie Mdfiszma cxboy yc
jf zcxayfk. Uf affk m zfanxn yomy xnfn dckfia nzsfayslsz dfyockn yc kc
yomy.

Cxi afu sddsbimayn dxny jf tmiy cl cxi caf Mdfiszm. Mlyfi mgg, yofe'if
ifwsymgsvsab cxi zsysfn, yofe'if fafibsvsab cxi zxgyxif, yofe'if jxsgksab
xt cxi fzcacde. Uf omwf m ifntcansjsgsye yc dmpf yofd ufgzcdf ofif, mak
yofe omwf m ifntcansjsgsye yc fayfi yof dmsanyifmd cl Mdfiszma gslf.

Yomy dfman gfmiasab Fabgsno mak gfmiasab mjcxy cxi kfdczimysz nenyfd cl
bcwfiadfay. Yofif mif acu gcab umsysab gsafn cl sddsbimayn yomy mif yiesab
yc kc rxny yomy.

Yofiflcif, cxi jxkbfy nsbaslszmayge fhtmakn cxi fllciyn yc ofgt yofd dffy
yofsi ifntcansjsgsye. S octf ecx usgg nxttciy sy.

Uofyofi cxi mazfnycin zmdf ofif ca yof Dmelgcufi, ca ngmwf nostn; uofyofi
yofe zmdf yc Fggsn Sngmak ci GMH sa Gcn Mabfgfn; uofyofi yofe zmdf
efnyfikme ci umgpfk yosn gmak 1,000 efmin mbc, cxi bifmy zomggfabf lci yof
21ny zfayxie sn yc lsak m ume yc jf caf Mdfiszm. Uf zma dffy mgg yof cyofi
zomggfabfn sl uf zma bc lciumik mn caf Mdfiszm.

Ecx pacu, jmifge dcif yoma 300 kmen licd acu uf usgg zicnn yomy jiskbf sayc
yof afu dsggfaasxd. Yosn sn m dcdfay, mn yof lsiny gmke omn nmsk, yc ocaci
yof tmny mak sdmbsaf yof lxyxif.

S'k gspf yc ympf rxny m dsaxyf yc ocaci ofi, lci gfmksab cxi Dsggfaasxd
Ticrfzy, lci mgg nof'n kcaf lci cxi zosgkifa. Lci mgg nof omn kcaf sa ofi
osnycisz icgf yc nfiwf cxi amysca mak cxi jfny skfmgn my ocdf mak mjicmk, S
ocaci ofi.

Gmny efmi--gmny efmi S zmggfk ca Zcabifnn mak fwfie zsysvfa yc dmip yof
dsggfaasxd je nmwsab Mdfiszm'n yifmnxifn. Osggmie'n yimwfgfk mgg mzicnn yof
zcxayie yc santsif ifzcbasysca mak nxttciy lci nmwsab tgmzfn gspf Yocdmn
Fksnca'n sawfaysca lmzycie ci Omiisfy Yxjdma'n ocdf.

Acu uf omwf yc tifnfiwf cxi yifmnxifn sa fwfie zcddxasye. Mak ycasboy,
jflcif S zgcnf, S umay yc sawsyf fwfie ycua, fwfie zsye, fwfie zcddxasye yc
jfzcdf m amyscamgge ifzcbasvfk dsggfaasxd zcddxasye je gmxazosab ticrfzyn
yomy nmwf cxi osnycie, ticdcyf cxi miyn mak oxdmasysfn, tiftmif cxi
zosgkifa lci yof 21ny zfayxie.

Mgifmke yof ifntcanf omn jffa ifdmipmjgf. Mak S umay yc nme m ntfzsmg ucik
cl yomapn yc cxi tiswmyf nfzyci tmiyafin mak yc dfdjfin sa Zcabifnn cl jcyo
tmiysfn lci yofsi nxttciy. Rxny caf fhmdtgf. Jfzmxnf cl ecx, yof Nymi
Ntmabgfk Jmaafi usgg jf tifnfiwfk lci yof mbfn.

Sa umen gmibf mak ndmgg, mn uf gccp yc yof dsggfaasxd, uf mif pfftsab mgswf
uomy Bfcibf Umnosabyca zmggfk yof "nmzifk lsif cl gsjfiye."

Nsh efmin mbc, S zmdf yc cllszf sa m ysdf cl kcxjy lci Mdfiszm, usyo cxi
fzcacde yicxjgfk, cxi kflszsy osbo, cxi tfctgf kswskfk. Ncdf fwfa ucakfifk
uofyofi cxi jfny kmen ufif jfosak xn. Jxy mzicnn yosn amysca, sa m yocxnmak
afsbojciocckn, S omwf nffa, fwfa mdskny yof tmsa mak xazfiymsaye cl
ifzfnnsca, yof ifmg ofmiy mak zomimzyfi cl Mdfiszm.

S pafu yofa uf Mdfiszman zcxgk ifafu yosn zcxayie.

Ycasboy, mn S kfgswfi yof gmny Nymyf cl yof Xasca Mkkifnn lci yof 20yo
zfayxie, ac caf maeuofif sa yof ucigk zma kcxjy yof fakxisab ifncgwf mak
jcxakgfnn zmtmzsye cl yof Mdfiszma tfctgf yc ucip ycumik yomy "dcif tfilfzy
xasca" cl cxi lcxakfin' kifmdn.

Uf mif acu, my yof fak cl m zfayxie, uofa bfafimysca mlyfi bfafimysca cl
Mdfiszman manufifk yof zmgg yc bifmyafnn, cwfizcdsab Kftifnnsca, gslysab xt
yof ksntcnnfnnfk, jisabsab kcua jmiisfin yc imzsmg tifrxkszf, jxsgksab yof
gmibfny dskkgf zgmnn sa osnycie, usaasab yuc ucigk umin mak yof "gcab
yusgsboy nyixbbgf" cl yof Zcgk Umi.

Uf dxny mgg jf ticlcxakge bimyflxg lci yof dmbaslszfay mzosfwfdfayn cl cxi
lcijfmifin sa yosn zfayxie.

Efy tfiomtn sa yof kmsge tifnn cl fwfayn, sa yof zgmno cl zcayicwfine, uf
kca'y nff cxi cua ysdf lci uomy sy yixge sn--m afu kmua lci Mdfiszm.

M oxakifk efmin licd ycasboy, macyofi Mdfiszma tifnskfay usgg nymak sa yosn
tgmzf mak iftciy ca yof Nymyf cl yof Xasca. Of--ci nof--usgg gccp jmzp ca
yof 21ny zfayxie nomtfk sa nc dmae umen je yof kfzsnscan uf dmpf ofif mak
acu.

Nc gfy sy jf nmsk cl xn yofa yomy uf ufif yosapsab acy cage cl cxi ysdf,
jxy cl yofsi ysdf; yomy uf ifmzofk mn osbo mn cxi skfmgn; yomy uf txy mnskf
cxi kswsnscan mak lcxak m afu ocxi cl ofmgsab mak octflxgafnn; yomy uf
rcsafk ycbfyofi yc nfiwf mak nyifabyofa yof gmak uf gcwf.

De lfggcu Mdfiszman, yosn sn cxi dcdfay. Gfy xn gsly cxi fefn mn caf
amysca, mak licd yof dcxaymsayct cl yosn Mdfiszma zfayxie, gccp mofmk yc
yof afhy caf--mnpsab Bck'n jgfnnsab ca cxi fakfmwcin mak ca cxi jfgcwfk
zcxayie.

Yomap ecx, mak bcck fwfasab.