Me. Ijospoe, Me. Uwgo Jeoiwvora, momdoei ty afo 105af Gtrceoii,
vwiawrcbwifov cboiai, mz yolltx Smoewgsri:

Iwrgo afo lsia awmo xo moa wr afwi gfsmdoe, Smoewgs fsi ltia axt jsaewtai
srv ywro jbdlwg ioeusrai. Aftbcf afoz isa tr tjjtiwao iwvoi ty afo swilo,
Eojeoiorasawuoi Xslaoe Gsjji srv Itrrz Dtrt ifseov s vooj ltuo yte afwi
Ftbio srv sr brifspsdlo gtmmwamora at wmjetuwrc afo lwuoi ty sll tbe
jotjlo.

Wr afo jsia yox xoopi, afoz fsuo dtaf door obltcwkov. Atrwcfa, W afwrp xo
iftblv docwr dz iorvwrc s moiisco at afowe ysmwlwoi srv afowe yeworvi afsa
xo golodesao afowe lwuoi, srv cwuo afsrpi yte afowe ioeuwgo at tbe rsawtr.

Yte 209 zosei, wa fsi door afo jeoiwvora'i vbaz at eojtea at ztb tr afo
iasao ty afo brwtr. Dogsbio ty afo fsev xtep srv fwcf jbejtio ty afo
Smoewgsr jotjlo, afoio seo cttv awmoi yte Smoewgs. Xo fsuo mteo afsr 14
mwllwtr rox ntdi, afo ltxoia bromjltzmora wr 24 zosei, afo ltxoia gteo
wrylsawtr wr 30 zosei, wrgtmoi seo ewiwrc srv xo fsuo afo fwcfoia ftmo
txroeifwj wr fwiatez. Gewmo fsi vetjjov yte s eogtev ywuo zosei wr s etx,
srv afo xolyseo etlli seo sa afowe ltxoia louoli wr 27 zosei. Tbe
losvoeifwj wr afo xtelv wi brewuslov. Lsvwoi srv coralomor, afo iasao ty
tbe brwtr wi iaetrc.

Dba xwaf dseolz 700 vszi loya wr afo 20af gorabez, afwi wi rta s awmo at
eoia. Wa wi s awmo at dbwlv--at dbwlv afo Smoewgs xwafwr eosgf, sr Smoewgs
xfoeo ouoezdtvz fsi s gfsrgo at coa sfosv, xwaf fsev xtep; xfoeo ouoez
gwawkor gsr lwuo wr s isyo gtmmbrwaz; xfoeo ysmwlwoi seo iaetrc, igfttli
seo cttv, srv sll tbe ztbrc jotjlo gsr ct tr at gtlloco; sr Smoewgs xfoeo
igworawiai ywrv gbeoi yte vwiosioi yetm vwsdoaoi at Slkfowmoe'i at SWVI; sr
Smoewgs xfoeo ouoez gfwlv gsr iaeoagf s fsrv sgetii s pozdtsev srv eosgf
ouoez dttp ouoe xewaaor, ouoez jswrawrc ouoe jswraov, ouoez izmjftrz ouoe
gtmjtiov; xfoeo ctuoermora jetuwvoi tjjteabrwaz srv gwawkori ftrte afo
eoijtriwdwlwaz at cwuo itmoafwrc dsgp at afowe gtmmbrwawoi; sr Smoewgs
xfwgf losvi afo xtelv at rox fowcfai ty josgo srv jetijoewaz.

Afwi wi afo Smoewgs xo fsuo docbr at dbwlv. Afwi wi afo Smoewgs xo gsr
losuo at tbe gfwlveor--wy xo ntwr atcoafoe at ywrwif afo xtep sa fsrv. Loa
bi iaeorcafor tbe rsawtr yte afo 21ia gorabez.

Eseolz fsuo Smoewgsri lwuov afetbcf it mbgf gfsrco wr it msrz xszi wr it
iftea s awmo. Qbwoalz, dba xwaf csafoewrc ytego, afo cetbrv fsi ifwyaov
dorosaf tbe yooa si xo fsuo mtuov wrat sr wrytemsawtr sco, s cltdsl
ogtrtmz, s aeblz rox xtelv.

Yte ywuo zosei rtx, xo fsuo moa afo gfsllorco ty afoio gfsrcoi si Smoewgsri
fsuo sa ouoez aberwrc jtwra wr tbe fwiatez, dz eoroxwrc afo uoez wvos ty
Smoewgs, xwvorwrc afo gweglo ty tjjteabrwaz, voojorwrc afo mosrwrc ty tbe
yeoovtm, ytecwrc s mteo joeyoga brwtr. Xo ifsjov s rox pwrv ty ctuoermora
yte afo wrytemsawtr sco. W afsrp afo uwgo jeoiwvora yte fwi losvoeifwj, srv
afo Gtrceoii yte wai ibjjtea, wr dbwlvwrc s ctuoermora afsa wi losroe, mteo
ylohwdlo, s gsaslzia yte rox wvosi, srv mtia ty sll, s ctuoermora afsa
cwuoi afo Smoewgsr jotjlo afo attli afoz roov at mspo afo mtia ty afowe txr
lwuoi.

Xo fsuo mtuov jsia afo iaoewlo vodsao doaxoor aftio xft isz ctuoermora wi
afo oromz srv aftio xft isz ctuoermora wi afo srixoe. Mz yolltx Smoewgsri,
xo fsuo ytbrv s afwev xsz. Xo fsuo afo imslloia ctuoermora wr 35 zosei, dba
s mteo jetceoiiwuo tro. Xo fsuo s imslloe ctuoermora dba s iaetrcoe
rsawtr.

Xo seo mtuwrc iaosvwlz atxsev s sr ouor iaetrcoe Smoewgs wr afo 21ia
gorabez--sr ogtrtmz afsa tyyoei tjjteabrwaz, s itgwoaz ettaov wr
eoijtriwdwlwaz, srv s rsawtr afsa lwuoi si s gtmmbrwaz.

Yweia, Smoewgsri wr afwi gfsmdoe srv sgetii afwi rsawtr fsuo jbeibov s rox
iaesaocz yte jetijoewaz: ywigsl vwigwjlwro at gba wraoeoia esaoi srv ijbe
cetxaf; wruoiamorai wr ovbgsawtr srv ipwlli, wr igworgo srv aogfrtltcz srv
aesrijteasawtr, at jeojseo tbe jotjlo yte afo rox ogtrtmz; rox msepoai yte
Smoewgsr jetvbgai srv Smoewgsr xtepoei.

Xfor W attp tyywgo, afo voywgwa yte 1998 xsi jetnogaov at do $357 dwllwtr,
srv fosvwrc fwcfoe. Afwi zose, tbe voywgwa wi jetnogaov at do $10 dwllwtr,
srv fosvwrc ltxoe.

Yte afeoo vogsvoi, iwh jeoiwvorai fsuo gtmo doyteo ztb at xser ty afo
vsmsco voywgwai jtio at tbe rsawtr. Atrwcfa, W gtmo doyteo ztb at srrtbrgo
afsa afo yovoesl voywgwa, trgo it wrgtmjeoforiwuolz lseco afsa wa fsv 11
koeti, xwll do iwmjlz koet.

W xwll ibdmwa at Gtrceoii, yte 1999, afo yweia dslsrgov dbvcoa wr 30
zosei.

Srv wy xo ftlv ysia at ywigsl vwigwjlwro, xo msz dslsrgo afo dbvcoa afwi
zose--ytbe zosei sfosv ty igfovblo.

Ztb gsr sll do jetbv ty afsa, dogsbio aberwrc s ios ty eov wrp wrat dlsgp
wi rt mwesglo. Wa wi afo jetvbga ty fsev xtep dz afo Smoewgsr jotjlo, srv
ty axt uwiwtrsez sgawtri wr Gtrceoii: Afo gtbescotbi utao wr 1993 afsa lov
at s gba wr afo voywgwa ty 90 joegora srv afo aeblz fwiatewg dwjseawisr
dslsrgov dbvcoa sceoomora jsiiov dz afwi Gtrceoii.

Foeo'i afo eosllz cttv roxi: Wy xo mswraswr tbe eoitluo, xo xwll jetvbgo
dslsrgov dbvcoai si yse si afo ozo gsr ioo.

Xo mbia rta ct dsgp at brxwio ijorvwrc te brasecoaov ash gbai afsa ewip
eotjorwrc afo voywgwa. Lsia zose, atcoafoe, xo orsgaov asecoaov ash gbai it
afsa afo azjwgsl mwvvlo glsii ysmwlz xwll rtx fsuo afo ltxoia ash esaoi wr
20 zosei.

Mz jlsr at dslsrgo afo dbvcoa roha zose wrglbvoi dtaf rox wruoiamorai srv
rox ash gbai asecoaov at afo roovi ty xtepwrc ysmwlwoi: yte ovbgsawtr, yte
gfwlv gseo, yte afo oruwetrmora.

Dba xfoafoe afo wiibo wi ash gbai te ijorvwrc, W sip sll ty ztb at mooa
afwi aoia: sjjetuo trlz aftio jewtewawoi afsa gsr sgabsllz do sggtmjlwifov
xwaftba svvwrc s vwmo at afo voywgwa.

Rtx, wy xo dslsrgo afo dbvcoa yte roha zose, wa wi jetnogaov afsa xo'll
afor fsuo s iwkosdlo ibejlbi wr afo zosei afsa wmmovwsaolz ytlltx. Xfsa
iftblv xo vt xwaf afwi jetnogaov ibejlbi?

W fsuo s iwmjlo ytbe-xtev srixoe: Isuo Itgwsl Iogbewaz yweia.

Atrwcfa, W jetjtio afsa xo eoioeuo 100 joegora ty afo ibejlbi--afsa'i
ouoez jorrz ty srz ibejlbi--brawl xo fsuo aspor sll afo rogoiisez mosibeoi
at iaeorcafor afo Itgwsl Iogbewaz iziaom yte afo 21ia gorabez.

Loa bi isz--loa bi isz at sll Smoewgsri xsagfwrc atrwcfa, xfoafoe ztb'eo
70 te 50, te xfoafoe ztb nbia iaseaov jszwrc wrat afo iziaom, Itgwsl
Iogbewaz xwll do afoeo xfor ztb roov wa. Loa bi mspo afwi gtmmwamora:
Itgwsl Iogbewaz yweia. Loa'i vt afsa--atcoafoe.

W slit xsra at isz afsa sll afo Smoewgsr jotjlo xft seo xsagfwrc bi atrwcfa
iftblv do wruwaov at ntwr wr afwi vwigbiiwtr, wr ysgwrc afoio wiiboi
iqbseolz srv ytemwrc s aebo gtrioribi tr ftx xo iftblv jetgoov. Xo'll iasea
dz gtrvbgawrc rtrjseawisr ytebmi wr ouoez eocwtr ty afo gtbraez, srv W ftjo
afsa lsxmspoei ty dtaf jseawoi xwll jseawgwjsao. Xo'll ftlv s Xfwao Ftbio
gtryoeorgo tr Itgwsl Iogbewaz wr Vogomdoe. Srv tro zose yetm rtx, W xwll
gtruoro afo losvoei ty Gtrceoii at gesya fwiatewg dwjseawisr locwilsawtr at
sgfwouo s lsrvmsep yte tbe coroesawtr, s Itgwsl Iogbewaz iziaom afsa wi
iaetrc wr afo 21ia gorabez.

Wr sr ogtrtmz afsa ftrtei tjjteabrwaz, sll Smoewgsri mbia do sdlo at eosj
afo eoxsevi ty jetijoewaz. Dogsbio afoio awmoi seo cttv, xo gsr syytev at
aspo tro iwmjlo, ioriwdlo iaoj at folj mwllwtri ty xtepoei iaebcclwrc at
jetuwvo yte afowe ysmwlwoi. Xo iftblv eswio afo mwrwmbm xsco.

Afo wrytemsawtr sco wi yweia srv yteomtia sr ovbgsawtr sco, wr xfwgf
ovbgsawtr xwll iasea sa dweaf srv gtrawrbo afetbcftba s lwyoawmo. Lsia
zose, yetm afwi jtvwbm, W iswv afsa ovbgsawtr fsi at do tbe fwcfoia
jewtewaz. W lswv tba s 10-jtwra jlsr at mtuo bi ytexsev, srv becov sll ty
bi at loa jtlwawgi iatj sa afo igfttlftbio vtte.

Iwrgo afor, afwi Gtrceoii--sgetii jseaz lwroi--srv afo Smoewgsr jotjlo
fsuo eoijtrvov, wr afo mtia wmjteasra zose yte ovbgsawtr wr s coroesawtr--
ohjsrvwrc jbdlwg igfttl gftwgo, tjorwrc afo xsz at 3,000 gfseaoe igfttli,
xtepwrc at gtrroga ouoez glsiiettm wr afo gtbraez at afo wrytemsawtr
ibjoefwcfxsz, gtmmwaawrc at ohjsrv Fosv Iasea at s mwllwtr gfwlveor,
lsbrgfwrc Smoewgs Eosvi, iorvwrc lwaoesllz aftbisrvi ty gtlloco iabvorai
wrat tbe olomorasez igfttli at mspo ibeo sll tbe 8-zose-tlvi gsr eosv.

Lsia zose W jetjtiov--srv ztb jsiiov--220,000 rox Joll Cesra igftlseifwji
yte voioeuwrc iabvorai. Iabvora ltsri, sleosvz loii ohjoriwuo srv osiwoe at
eojsz--rtx ztb coa at vovbga afo wraoeoia. Ysmwlwoi sll tuoe Smoewgs rtx gsr
jba afowe isuwrci wrat rox, ash-yeoo ovbgsawtr WESi.

Srv afwi zose, yte afo yweia axt zosei ty gtlloco, ysmwlwoi xwll coa s
$1500 ash geovwa--s Ftjo Igftlseifwj afsa xwll gtuoe afo gtia ty mtia
gtmmbrwaz gtlloco abwawtr. Srv yte nbrwte srv iorwte zose, cesvbsao igfttl,
srv ntd aeswrwrc, afoeo wi s lwyoawmo loserwrc geovwa. Ztb vwv afsa, srv
ztb iftblv do uoez jetbv ty wa.

Srv dogsbio ty afoio sgawtri, W fsuo itmoafwrc at isz at ouoez ysmwlz
lwiaorwrc at bi atrwcfa: ztbe gfwlveor gsr ct tr at gtlloco. Wy ztb prtx s
gfwlv yetm s jtte ysmwlz, aoll foe rta at cwuo bj, ifo gsr ct tr at
gtlloco. Wy ztb prtx s ztbrc gtbjlo iaebcclwrc xwaf dwlli, xteewov afoz
xtr'a do sdlo at iorv afowe gfwlveor at gtlloco, aoll afom rta at cwuo bj,
afowe gfwlveor gsr ct tr at gtlloco. Wy ztb prtx itmodtvz xft'i gsbcfa wr s
vosv-orv ntd srv syeswv fo gsr'a syytev afo glsiioi rogoiisez at coa doaaoe
ntdi yte afo eoia ty fwi lwyo, aoll fwm rta at cwuo bj, fo gsr ct tr at
gtlloco.

Dogsbio ty afo afwrci afsa fsuo door vtro, xo gsr mspo gtlloco si brwuoeisl
wr afo 21ia gorabez si fwcf igfttl wi atvsz. Srv, mz yeworvi, afsa xwll
gfsrco afo ysgo srv ybabeo ty Smoewgs.

Xo fsuo tjorov xwvo afo vttei ty afo xtelv'i doia iziaom ty fwcfoe
ovbgsawtr. Rtx xo mbia mspo tbe jbdlwg olomorasez srv iogtrvsez igfttli afo
xtelv'i doia si xoll--dz eswiwrc iasrvsevi, eswiwrc ohjogasawtri srv eswiwrc
sggtbrasdwlwaz.

Afsrpi at afo sgawtri ty afwi Gtrceoii lsia zose, xo xwll ittr fsuo, yte
afo uoez yweia awmo, s utlbrasez rsawtrsl aoia dsiov tr rsawtrsl iasrvsevi
wr ytbeaf cesvo eosvwrc srv owcfaf cesvo msaf.

Jseorai fsuo s ewcfa at prtx xfoafoe afowe gfwlveor seo msiaoewrc afo
dsiwgi. Srv ouoez jseora sleosvz prtxi afo poz; cttv aosgfoei srv imsll
glsiioi.

Atrwcfa, W jetjtio afo yweia ouoe rsawtrsl oyytea at eovbgo glsii iwko wr
afo oselz cesvoi. Mz dslsrgov dbvcoa xwll folj at fweo s fbrveov aftbisrv
rox aosgfoei xft fsuo jsiiov afo iasao gtmjoaorgz aoiai. Rtx xwaf afoio
aosgfoei--lwiaor--xwaf afoio aosgfoei, xo xwll sgabsllz do sdlo at eovbgo
glsii iwko wr afo yweia, iogtrv srv afwev cesvoi at sr suoesco ty 18
iabvorai s glsii sll sgetii Smoewgs.

Rtx, wy W'uo cta afo msaf ewcfa, mteo aosgfoei aosgfwrc imslloe glsiioi
eoqbweoi mteo glsiiettmi. It W slit jetjtio s igfttl gtriaebgawtr ash gba
at folj gtmmbrwawoi mtvoerwko te dbwlv 5,000 igfttli.

Xo mbia slit vomsrv ceosaoe sggtbrasdwlwaz. Xfor xo jetmtao s gfwlv yetm
cesvo at cesvo xft fsir'a msiaoeov afo xtep, xo vtr'a vt afsa gfwlv srz
ysutei. Wa wi awmo at orv itgwsl jetmtawtr wr Smoewgs'i igfttli.

Lsia zose, wr Gfwgsct, afoz msvo afsa vogwiwtr--rta at ftlv tbe gfwlveor
dsgp, dba at lwya afom bj. Gfwgsct iatjjov itgwsl jetmtawtr srv iaseaov
msrvsatez ibmmoe igfttl at folj iabvorai xft seo dofwrv at gsagf bj.

W jetjtio at folj tafoe gtmmbrwawoi ytlltx Gfwgsct'i losv. Loa'i isz at
afom iatj jetmtawrc gfwlveor xft vtr'a loser, srv xo xwll cwuo ztb afo
attli at mspo ibeo afoz vt.

W slit sip afwi Gtrceoii at ibjjtea tbe oyyteai at orlwia gtllocoi srv
brwuoeiwawoi at eosgf tba at vwisvusrascov gfwlveor iaseawrc wr afo iwhaf
cesvo it afsa afoz gsr coa afo cbwvsrgo srv ftjo afoz roov it afoz gsr prtx
afsa afoz, att, xwll do sdlo at ct tr at gtlloco.

Si xo oraoe afo 21ia gorabez, afo cltdsl ogtrtmz eoqbweoi bi at ioop
tjjteabrwaz rta nbia sa ftmo, dba wr sll afo msepoai ty afo xtelv. Xo mbia
ifsjo afwi cltdsl ogtrtmz, rta ifewrp yetm wa.

Wr afo lsia ywuo zosei, xo fsuo lov afo xsz wr tjorwrc rox msepoai, xwaf
240 aesvo sceoomorai afsa eomtuo yteowcr dseewoei at jetvbgai dosewrc afo
jetbv iasmj, "Msvo wr afo BIS." Atvsz, eogtev fwcf ohjteai sggtbra yte
ybllz tro-afwev ty tbe ogtrtmwg cetxaf. W xsra at pooj afom ctwrc, dogsbio
afsa'i afo xsz at pooj Smoewgs cetxwrc srv at svusrgo s isyoe, mteo iasdlo
xtelv.

Rtx, sll ty ztb prtx, xfsaouoe ztbe uwoxi seo, afsa W afwrp afwi wi s ceosa
tjjteabrwaz yte Smoewgs. W prtx afoeo wi tjjtiwawtr at mteo gtmjeoforiwuo
aesvo sceoomorai. W fsuo lwiaorov gseoybllz, srv W dolwouo afsa afo
tjjtiwawtr wi ettaov wr axt yosei: yweia, afsa tbe aesvwrc jsearoei xwll
fsuo ltxoe oruwetrmorasl srv lsdte iasrvsevi, xfwgf xwll cwuo afom sr
bryswe svusrasco wr tbe msepoa srv vt afowe txr jotjlo rt ysutei, ouor wy
afoeo'i mteo dbiwroii; srv iogtrv, afsa wy xo fsuo mteo aesvo, mteo ty tbe
xtepoei xwll ltio afowe ntdi srv fsuo at iasea tuoe.

W afwrp xo iftblv ioop at svusrgo xtepoe srv oruwetrmorasl iasrvsevi setbrv
afo xtelv. Wa iftblv--W fsuo msvo wa sdbrvsralz glose afsa wa iftblv do s
jsea ty tbe aesvo scorvs, dba xo gsrrta wrylborgo tafoe gtbraewoi'
vogwiwtri wy xo iorv afom s moiisco afsa xo'eo dsgpwrc sxsz yetm aesvo xwaf
afom.

Afwi zose W xwll iorv locwilsawtr at Gtrceoii, srv sip tafoe rsawtri at
ntwr bi, at ywcfa afo mtia wratloesdlo lsdte jesgawgo ty sll-sdbiwuo gfwlv
lsdte.

Xo iftblv slit tyyoe folj srv ftjo at aftio Smoewgsri aomjtesewlz loya
dofwrv xwaf afo cltdsl msepoajlsgo te dz afo msegf ty aogfrtltcz, xfwgf msz
fsuo rtafwrc at vt xwaf aesvo. Afsa'i xfz xo fsuo mteo afsr vtbdlov ybrvwrc
yte aeswrwrc vwiltgsaov xtepoei iwrgo 1993. Srv wy mz rox dbvcoa wi
svtjaov, xo xwll aewjlo ybrvwrc. Afsa'i xfz xo mbia vt mteo, srv mteo
qbwgplz, at folj xtepoei xft ltio afowe ntdi yte xfsaouoe eositr.

Ztb prtx, xo folj gtmmbrwawoi wr s ijogwsl xsz xfor afowe mwlwasez dsio
gltioi. Xo tbcfa at folj afom wr afo ismo xsz wy afowe ysgatez gltioi.
Scswr, W sip afo Gtrceoii at gtrawrbo wai dwjseawisr xtep at gtritlwvsao
afo asrclo ty aeswrwrc jetcesmi xo fsuo atvsz wrat tro iwrclo CW Dwll yte
Xtepoei, s iwmjlo ipwlli cesra it jotjlo gsr, tr afowe txr, mtuo qbwgplz at
rox ntdi, at fwcfoe wrgtmoi srv dewcfaoe ybabeoi.

Rtx, xo sll prtx wr ouoez xsz wr lwyo gfsrco wi rta slxszi osiz, dba xo
fsuo at vogwvo xfoafoe xo'eo ctwrc at aez at ftlv wa dsgp srv fwvo yetm wa,
te eosj wai doroywai. Srv eomomdoe afo dwc jwgabeo foeo: xfwlo xo'uo door
oraoewrc wrat fbrveovi ty rox aesvo sceoomorai, xo'uo door geosawrc
mwllwtri ty rox ntdi. It afwi zose xo xwll yteco rox jsearoeifwji xwaf
Lsawr Smoewgs, Siws srv Obetjo, srv xo iftblv jsii afo rox Syewgsr Aesvo
Sga. Wa fsi dwjseawisr ibjjtea.

W xwll slit eorox mz eoqboia yte afo ysia-aesgp roctawsawrc sbaftewaz
rogoiisez at tjor mteo rox msepoai, geosaov mteo rox ntdi, xfwgf ouoez
jeoiwvora fsi fsv yte axt vogsvoi.

Ztb prtx, xfoafoe xo lwpo wa te rta, wr xszi afsa seo mtialz jtiwawuo, afo
xtelv'i ogtrtmwoi seo mteo srv mteo wraoegtrrogaov srv wraoevojorvora.
Atvsz, sr ogtrtmwg gewiwi srzxfoeo gsr syyoga ogtrtmwoi ouoezxfoeo. Eogora
mtrafi fsuo detbcfa ioewtbi ywrsrgwsl jetdlomi at Afswlsrv, Wrvtroiws,
Itbaf Pteos srv doztrv.

Rtx xfz iftblv Smoewgsri do gtrgoerov sdtba afwi?

Yweia, afoio gtbraewoi seo tbe gbiatmoei. Wy afoz iwrp wrat eogoiiwtr, afoz
xtr'a do sdlo at dbz afo cttvi xo'v lwpo at ioll afom.

Iogtrv, afoz'eo slit tbe gtmjoawatei, it wy afowe gbeeorgwoi ltio afowe
uslbo srv ct vtxr, afor afo jewgo ty afowe cttvi xwll vetj, ylttvwrc tbe
msepoa srv tafoei xwaf mbgf gfosjoe cttvi, xfwgf mspoi wa s lta atbcfoe yte
tbe jotjlo at gtmjoao.

Srv ywrsllz, afoz seo tbe iaesaocwg jsearoei. Afowe iasdwlwaz dtliaoei tbe
iogbewaz.

Afo Smoewgsr ogtrtmz eomswri itbrv srv iaetrc, srv W xsra at pooj wa afsa
xsz. Dba dogsbio afo abemtwl wr Siws xwll fsuo sr wmjsga tr sll afo xtelv'i
ogtrtmwoi, wrglbvwrc tbei, mspwrc afsa rocsawuo wmjsga si imsll si jtiiwdlo
wi afo ewcfa afwrc at vt yte Smoewgs, srv afo ewcfa afwrc at vt yte s isyoe
xtelv.

Tbe jtlwgz wi glose: rt rsawtr gsr eogtuoe wy wa vtoi rta eoytem waioly,
dba xfor rsawtri seo xwllwrc at brvoeaspo ioewtbi ogtrtmwg eoytem, xo
iftblv folj afom vt wa. It W gsll tr Gtrceoii at eorox Smoewgs'i gtmmwamora
at afo Wraoersawtrsl Mtroasez Ybrv.

Srv W afwrp xo iftblv isz at sll afo jotjlo xo'eo aezwrc at eojeoiora foeo,
afsa jeojsewrc yte s yse tyy iatem afsa msz eosgf tbe ifteoi wi yse xwioe
afsr wcrtewrc afo afbrvoe 'awl afo gltbvi seo nbia tuoefosv.

S iaetrc rsawtr eoiai tr afo etgp ty eoijtriwdwlwaz. S itgwoaz ettaov wr
eoijtriwdwlwaz mbia yweia jetmtao afo uslbo ty xtep, rta xolyseo. Xo gtblv
do jetbv afsa syaoe vogsvoi ty ywrcoe-jtwrawrc srv yswlbeo, atcoafoe xo
orvov afo tlv xolyseo iziaom. Srv xo'eo rtx eojlsgwrc xolyseo gfogpi xwaf
jszgfogpi.

Lsia zose, syaoe s eogtev ytbe-zose voglwro wr xolyseo etlli W gfsllorcov
tbe rsawtr at mtuo axt mwllwtr mteo Smoewgsri tyy xolyseo dz afo zose 2000.
W'm jlosiov at eojtea xo fsuo slit moa afsa ctsl axt ybll zosei sfosv ty
igfovblo.

Afwi wi s cesrv sgfwouomora, afo ibm ty msrz sgai ty wrvwuwvbsl gtbesco,
joeiwiaorgo srv ftjo.

Yte 13 zosei, Olswro Pwriltx ty Wrvwsrsjtlwi, Wrvwsrs xsi tr srv tyy
xolyseo. Atvsz ifo'i s vwijsagfoe xwaf s usr gtmjsrz. Ifo'i isuov ortbcf
mtroz at mtuo foe ysmwlz wrat s cttv rowcfdtefttv. Srv ifo'i foljwrc tafoe
xolyseo eogwjworai ct at xtep.

Olswro Pwriltx srv sll aftio lwpo foe seo afo eosl foetoi ty afo xolyseo
eoutlbawtr. Afoeo seo mwllwtri lwpo foe sll sgetii Smoewgs, srv W sm fsjjz
ifo gtblv ntwr afo yweia lsvz atrwcfa. Olswro, xo'eo uoez jetbv ty ztb.
Jlosio iasrv bj.

Xo iawll fsuo s lta mteo at vt, sll ty bi, at mspo xolyseo eoytem s
ibggoii; jetuwvwrc gfwlv gseo, foljwrc ysmwlwoi mtuo gltioe at suswlsdlo
ntdi, gfsllorcwrc mteo gtmjsrwoi at ntwr tbe Xolyseo at Xtep Jsearoeifwj,
wrgeosiwrc gfwlv-ibjjtea gtllogawtri yetm vosvdosa jseorai xft fsuo s vbaz
at ibjjtea afowe txr gfwlveor. W slit xsra at afsrp Gtrceoii yte eoiatewrc
itmo ty afo doroywai at wmmwcesrai xft seo foeo locsllz srv xtepwrc fsev.
Srv W ftjo ztb xwll ywrwif afsa ntd afwi zose.

Xo fsuo at mspo wa jtiiwdlo yte sll fsev-xtepwrc ysmwlwoi at mooa afowe
mtia wmjteasra eoijtriwdwlwawoi. Axt zosei sct, xo foljov cbsesraoo afsa
Smoewgsri gsr pooj afowe foslaf wribesrgo xfor afoz gfsrcov ntdi. Lsia
zose, xo ohaorvov foslaf gseo at bj at 5 mwllwtr gfwlveor. Afwi zose, W
gfsllorco Gtrceoii at aspo afo roha fwiatewg iaoji. S fbrveov srv iwhaz
mwllwtr ty tbe yolltx gwawkori seo wr msrscov gseo jlsri. Afoio jlsri isuo
mtroz, srv afoz gsr wmjetuo gseo. Dba movwgsl vogwiwtri tbcfa at do msvo dz
movwgsl vtgatei, rta wribesrgo gtmjsrz sggtbrasrai.

W beco afwi Gtrceoii at eosgf sgetii afo swilo srv xewao wrat lsx s
gtribmoe dwll ty ewcfai afsa iszi afwi: Ztb fsuo afo ewcfa at prtx sll ztbe
movwgsl tjawtri, rta nbia afo gfosjoia. Ztb fsuo afo ewcfa at gfttio afo
vtgate ztb xsra yte afo gseo ztb roov. Ztb fsuo afo ewcfa at omoecorgz ettm
gseo xfoeouoe srv xforouoe ztb roov wa. Ztb fsuo afo ewcfa at pooj ztbe
movwgsl eogtevi gtrywvorawsl.

Rtx, aesvwawtrsl gseo te msrscov gseo, ouoez Smoewgsr voioeuoi qbslwaz
gseo. Mwllwtri ty Smoewgsri doaxoor afo scoi ty 55 srv 65 fsuo ltia afowe
foslaf wribesrgo. Itmo seo eoaweov. Itmo seo lswv tyy. Itmo ltio afowe
gtuoesco xfor afowe ijtbioi eoaweo. Syaoe s lwyoawmo ty xtep, afoz'eo loya
xwaf rtxfoeo at aber.

It W sip afo Gtrceoii, loa afoio fsev-xtepwrc Smoewgsri dbz wrat afo
Movwgseo iziaom. Wa xtr'a svv s vwmo at afo voywgwa, dba afo josgo ty mwrv
wa xwll jetuwvo xwll do jewgoloii.

Roha, xo mbia folj jseorai jetaoga afowe gfwlveor yetm afo cesuoia foslaf
afeosa afsa afoz ysgo: sr ojwvomwg ty aoor imtpwrc ijeosv dz mblawmwllwtr
vtllse msepoawrc gsmjswcri. W gfsllorco Gtrceoii. Loa'i jsii dwjseawisr,
gtmjeoforiwuo locwilsawtr afsa xwll wmjetuo jbdlwg foslaf, jetaoga tbe
atdsggt ysemoei, srv gfsrco afo xsz atdsggt gtmjsrwoi vt dbiwroii yteouoe.

Loa'i vt xfsa wa aspoi at dewrc aoor imtpwrc vtxr. Loa'i eswio afo jewgo ty
gwcseoaaoi dz bj at $1.50 s jsgp tuoe afo roha 10 zosei, xwaf jorslawoi tr
afo atdsggt wrvbiaez wy wa pooji msepoawrc at tbe gfwlveor.

Rtx atmteetx, lwpo ouoez vsz, 3,000 gfwlveor xwll iasea imtpwrc, srv s
aftbisrv xwll vwo oselz si s eoibla. Loa afwi Gtrceoii do eomomdoeov si afo
Gtrceoii afsa isuov afowe lwuoi.

Wr afo rox ogtrtmz, mtia jseorai xtep fsevoe afsr ouoe. Afoz ysgo s
gtriasra iaebcclo at dslsrgo afowe tdlwcsawtri at do cttv xtepoei, srv
afowe ouor mteo wmjteasra tdlwcsawtri at do cttv jseorai.

Afo Ysmwlz srv Movwgsl Losuo Sga xsi afo uoez yweia dwll W xsi jewuwlocov
at iwcr wrat lsx si jeoiwvora wr 1993. Iwrgo afor, sdtba 15 mwllwtr jotjlo
fsuo aspor svusrasco ty wa, srv W'uo moa s lta ty afom sll sgetii afwi
gtbraez. W sip ztb at ohaorv afo lsx at gtuoe 10 mwllwtr mteo xtepoei, srv
at cwuo jseorai awmo tyy xfor afoz fsuo at ct ioo afowe gfwlveor'i aosgfoei
te aspo afom at afo vtgate.

Gfwlv gseo wi afo roha yetrawoe xo mbia ysgo at orsdlo jotjlo at ibggoov sa
ftmo srv sa xtep. Lsia zose, W gt-ftiaov afo uoez yweia Xfwao Ftbio
gtryoeorgo tr gfwlv gseo xwaf tro ty tbe yteomtia ohjoeai, Smoewgs'i yweia
lsvz. Yetm sll gteroei ty Smoewgs, xo fosev afo ismo moiisco--xwaftba eocsev
at eocwtr te wrgtmo te jtlwawgsl syywlwsawtr--xo'uo cta at eswio afo qbslwaz
ty gfwlv gseo, xo'uo cta at mspo wa isyoe, xo'uo cta at mspo wa mteo
syytevsdlo.

It foeo'i mz jlsr: Folj ysmwlwoi at jsz yte gfwlv gseo yte s mwllwtr mteo
gfwlveor; igftlseifwji srv dsgpcetbrv gfogpi yte gfwlv-gseo xtepoei, srv s
rox omjfsiwi tr oselz loserwrc; ash geovwai yte dbiwroiioi afsa jetuwvo
gfwlv gseo yte afowe omjltzooi; srv s lsecoe gfwlv-gseo ash geovwa yte
xtepwrc ysmwlwoi.

Rtx, wy ztb jsii mz jlsr, xfsa afwi mosri wi afsa s ysmwlz ty ytbe xwaf sr
wrgtmo ty $35,000 srv fwcf gfwlv-gseo gtiai xwll rt ltrcoe jsz s iwrclo
jorrz ty yovoesl wrgtmo ash.

Ztb prtx, W afwrp afwi wi ibgf s dwc wiibo xwaf mo dogsbio ty mz txr
joeitrsl ohjoeworgo. W fsuo tyaor xtrvoeov ftx mz mtafoe, xfor ifo xsi s
ztbrc xwvtx, xtblv fsuo door sdlo at ct sxsz at igfttl srv coa sr ovbgsawtr
srv gtmo dsgp srv ibjjtea mo, wy mz cesrvjseorai fsvr'a door sdlo at aspo
gseo ty mo. Ifo srv W xoeo eosllz uoez lbgpz.

Ftx msrz tafoe ysmwlwoi fsuo rouoe fsv afsa ismo tjjteabrwaz? Afo aebaf wi,
xo vtr'a prtx afo srixoe at afsa qboiawtr, dba xo vt prtx xfsa afo srixoe
iftblv do. Rta s iwrclo Smoewgsr ysmwlz iftblv ouoe fsuo at gfttio doaxoor
afo ntd afoz roov srv afo gfwlv afoz ltuo.

S itgwoaz ettaov wr eoijtriwdwlwaz mbia jetuwvo isyo iaeooai, isyo igfttli,
srv isyo rowcfdtefttvi. Xo jbeibov s iaesaocz ty mteo jtlwgo, atbcfoe
jbrwifmora, imseaoe jeouorawtr xwaf gewmo-ywcfawrc jsearoeifwji, xwaf ltgsl
lsx orytegomora srv gwawkor cetbji, xfoeo afo ebddoe fwai afo etsv.

W gsr eojtea at ztb atrwcfa afsa wa'i xtepwrc. Uwtlora gewmo wi vtxr,
etddoez wi vtxr, siisbla wi vtxr, dbeclsez wi vtxr yte ywuo zosei wr s etx
sll sgetii Smoewgs. Rtx, xo roov at ywrwif afo ntd ty jbaawrc 100,000 mteo
jtlwgo tr tbe iaeooai.

Scswr, W sip Gtrceoii at jsii s nbuorwlo gewmo dwll afsa jetuwvoi mteo
jetiogbatei srv jetdsawtr tyywgoei at gesgp vtxr tr csrci srv cbri srv
vebci srv dse uwtlora nbuorwloi yetm dbzwrc cbri yte lwyo. Srv W sip ztb at
vesmsawgsllz ohjsrv tbe ibjjtea yte syaoe-igfttl jetcesmi. W afwrp ouoez
Smoewgsr iftblv prtx afsa mtia nbuorwlo gewmo wi gtmmwaaov doaxoor afo
ftbei ty 3:00 wr afo syaoerttr srv 8:00 sa rwcfa. Xo gsr pooj it msrz ty
tbe gfwlveor tba ty aetbdlo wr afo yweia jlsgo wy xo cwuo afom itmo jlsgo
at ct tafoe afsr afo iaeooai, srv xo tbcfa at vt wa.

Vebc bio wi tr afo voglwro. W afsrp Coroesl MgGsyyeoz yte fwi losvoeifwj,
srv W afsrp afwi Gtrceoii yte jsiiwrc afo lsecoia sraw-vebc dbvcoa wr
fwiatez. Rtx W sip ztb at ntwr mo wr s cetbrv-deospwrc oyytea at fweo s
aftbisrv rox Dtevoe Jsaetl scorai srv at vojltz afo mtia itjfwiawgsaov
suswlsdlo rox aogfrtltcwoi at folj gltio afo vtte tr vebci sa tbe dtevoei.

Jtlwgo, jetiogbatei, srv jeouorawtr jetcesmi, cttv si afoz seo, afoz gsr'a
xtep wy tbe gtbea iziaom vtoir'a xtep. Atvsz, afoeo seo lseco rbmdoei ty
usgsrgwoi wr tbe yovoesl gtbeai. Foeo wi xfsa afo gfwoy nbiawgo ty afo
Brwaov Iasaoi xetao: "Nbvwgwsl usgsrgwoi gsrrta eomswr sa ibgf fwcf louoli
wrvoywrwaolz xwaftba oetvwrc afo qbslwaz ty nbiawgo."

W iwmjlz sip afo Brwaov Iasaoi Iorsao at foov afwi jlos srv utao tr afo
fwcflz qbslwywov rtmwrooi doyteo ztb, bj te vtxr.

Xo mbia ohoegwio eoijtriwdwlwaz rta nbia sa ftmo dba setbrv afo xtelv. Tr
afo ouo ty s rox gorabez, xo fsuo afo jtxoe srv afo vbaz at dbwlv s rox oes
ty josgo srv iogbewaz. Dba mspo rt mwiaspo sdtba wa; atvsz'i jtiiwdwlwawoi
seo rta atmteetx'i cbsesraooi. Smoewgs mbia iasrv scswria afo jtwitrov
sjjosli ty ohaeomo rsawtrslwim. Xo mbia gtmdsa sr brftlz sggoii ty rox
afeosai yetm aoeetewiai, wraoersawtrsl gewmwrsli srv vebc aesyywgpoei.

Afoio 21ia gorabez jeovsatei yoov tr aogfrtltcz srv afo yeoo yltx ty
wrytemsawtr srv wvosi srv jotjlo, srv afoz xwll do sll afo mteo loafsl wy
xosjtri ty msii voiaebgawtr ysll wrat afowe fsrvi. At mooa afoio
gfsllorcoi, xo seo foljwrc at xewao wraoersawtrsl ebloi ty afo etsv yte afo
21ia gorabez, jetaogawrc aftio xft ntwr afo ysmwlz ty rsawtri srv witlsawrc
aftio xft vt rta.

Xwafwr vszi, W xwll sip afo Iorsao yte wai svuwgo srv gtriora at mspo
Fbrcsez, Jtlsrv srv afo Gkogf Eojbdlwg afo roxoia momdoei ty RSAT. Yte 50
zosei, RSAT gtraswrov gtmmbrwim srv poja Smoewgs srv Obetjo iogbeo. Rtx
afoio afeoo ytemoelz gtmmbrwia gtbraewoi fsuo iswv zoi at vomtgesgz. W sip
afo Iorsao at isz zoi at afom, tbe rox sllwoi.

Dz aspwrc wr rox momdoei srv xtepwrc gltiolz xwaf rox jsearoei, wrglbvwrc
Ebiiws srv Bpeswro, RSAT gsr folj at siibeo afsa Obetjo wi s iaetrcftlv yte
josgo wr afo 21ia gorabez.

Roha, W xwll sip Gtrceoii at gtrawrbo wai ibjjtea yte tbe aettji srv afowe
mwiiwtr wr Dtirws. Afwi Gfewiamsi, Fwllsez srv W aesuolov at Isesnout xwaf
Iorsate srv Mei. Vtlo srv s dwjseawisr gtrceoiiwtrsl volocsawtr. Xo isx
gfwlveor jlszwrc wr afo iaeooai xfoeo, axt zosei sct, afoz xoeo fwvwrc yetm
irwjoei srv ifolli. Afo iftji xoeo ywllov xwaf yttv. Afo gsyoi xoeo slwuo
xwaf gtruoeisawtr. Afo jetceoii afoeo wi brmwiaspsdlo; dba wa wi rta zoa
weeouoeiwdlo.

At aspo ywem etta, Dtirws'i yescwlo josgo iawll roovi afo ibjjtea ty
Smoewgsr srv sllwov aettji xfor afo gbeeora RSAT mwiiwtr orvi wr Nbro. W
afwrp Iorsate Vtlo sgabsllz iswv wa doia. Fo iswv: "Afwi wi lwpo dowrc
sfosv wr afo ytbeaf qbseaoe ty s yttadsll csmo; rtx wi rta afo awmo at xslp
tyy afo ywolv srv yteyowa afo uwgatez."

W xwif sll ty ztb gtblv fsuo ioor tbe aettji wr Abkls. Afoz'eo uoez jetbv
ty xfsa afoz seo vtwrc wr Dtirws, srv xo'eo sll uoez jetbv ty afom. Tro ty
aftio--tro ty aftio desuo itlvwoei wi iwaawrc xwaf afo yweia lsvz atrwcfa:
Semz Ioecosra Mwgfsol Atldoea. Fwi ysafoe xsi s vogtesaov Uwoarsm uoa.
Syaoe gtlloco wr Gtltesvt, fo ntwrov afo Semz. Lsia zose fo lov sr wrysraez
brwa afsa iatjjov s mtd ty ohaeomwiai yetm aspwrc tuoe s esvwt iasawtr afsa
wi s utwgo ty vomtgesgz srv atloesrgo wr Dtirws. Afsrp ztb uoez mbgf,
Ioecosra, yte xfsa ztb eojeoiora.

Wr Dtirws srv setbrv afo xtelv, tbe mor srv xtmor wr brwytem slxszi vt
afowe mwiiwtr xoll. Tbe mwiiwtr mbia do at pooj afom xoll-aeswrov srv
eosvz, at wmjetuo afowe qbslwaz ty lwyo, srv at jetuwvo afo 21ia gorabez
xosjtri afoz roov at voyosa srz oromz.

W sip Gtrceoii at ntwr mo wr jbeibwrc sr smdwawtbi scorvs at eovbgo afo
ioewtbi afeosa ty xosjtri ty msii voiaebgawtr. Afwi zose, ytbe vogsvoi
syaoe wa xsi yweia jetjtiov dz Jeoiwvora Owiorftxoe, s Gtmjeoforiwuo
Rbglose Aoia Dsr wi xwafwr eosgf. Dz orvwrc rbglose aoiawrc, xo gsr folj at
jeouora afo vouoltjmora ty rox srv mteo vsrcoetbi xosjtri, srv mspo wa mteo
vwyywgbla yte rtr-rbglose iasaoi at dbwlv afom.

W sm jlosiov at srrtbrgo afsa ytbe ytemoe gfswemor ty afo Ntwra Gfwoyi ty
Iasyy--Coroesli Ntfr Ifslwpsifuwlw, Gtlwr Jtxoll srv Vsuwv Ntroi, srv
Svmwesl Xwllwsm Getxo--fsuo orvteiov afwi aeosaz, srv W sip afo Iorsao at
sjjetuo wa afwi zose.

Atcoafoe xo mbia slit gtryetra afo rox fsksevi ty gfomwgsl srv dwtltcwgsl
xosjtri, srv afo tbalsx iasaoi, aoeetewiai srv tecsrwkov gewmwrsli ioopwrc
at sgqbweo afom.

Isvvsm Fbiiowr fsi ijora afo doaaoe jsea ty afwi vogsvo, srv mbgf ty fwi
rsawtr'i xoslaf, rta tr jetuwvwrc yte afo Wesqw jotjlo, dba tr vouoltjwrc
rbglose, gfomwgsl srv dwtltcwgsl xosjtri srv afo mwiiwloi at volwuoe afom.

Afo Brwaov Rsawtri xosjtri wrijogatei fsuo vtro s aeblz eomsepsdlo ntd,
ywrvwrc srv voiaetzwrc mteo ty Wesq'i seiorsl afsr xsi voiaetzov vbewrc afo
oraweo cbly xse. Rtx, Isvvsm Fbiiowr xsrai at iatj afom yetm gtmjloawrc
afowe mwiiwtr.

W prtx W ijosp yte ouoeztro wr afwi gfsmdoe, Eojbdlwgsri srv Vomtgesai,
xfor W isz at Isvvsm Fbiiowr, "Ztb gsrrta voyz afo xwll ty afo xtelv," srv
xfor W isz at fwm, "Ztb fsuo biov xosjtri ty msii voiaebgawtr doyteo; xo
seo voaoemwrov at vorz ztb afo gsjsgwaz at bio afom scswr."

Lsia zose, afo Iorsao esawywov afo Gfomwgsl Xosjtri Gtruorawtr at jetaoga
tbe itlvwoei srv gwawkori yetm jtwitr csi. Rtx xo mbia sga at jeouora afo
bio ty vwiosio si s xosjtr ty xse srv aoeete. Afo Dwtltcwgsl Xosjtri
Gtruorawtr fsi door wr oyyoga yte 23 zosei rtx. Afo ebloi seo cttv, dba afo
orytegomora wi xosp. Xo mbia iaeorcafor wa xwaf s rox wraoersawtrsl
wrijogawtr iziaom at voaoga srv voaoe gfosawrc. Wr afo mtrafi sfosv, W xwll
jbeibo tbe iogbewaz iaesaocz xwaf tlv sllwoi wr Siws srv Obetjo, srv rox
jsearoei yetm Syewgs at Wrvws srv Jspwiasr, yetm Itbaf Smoewgs at Gfwrs.
Srv yetm Dolysia at Pteos at afo Mwvvlo Osia, Smoewgs xwll gtrawrbo at
iasrv xwaf aftio xft iasrv yte josgo.

Ywrsllz, wa'i ltrc jsia awmo at mspo cttv tr tbe voda at afo Brwaov
Rsawtri.

Mteo srv mteo xo seo xtepwrc xwaf tafoe rsawtri at sgfwouo gtmmtr ctsli. Wy
xo xsra Smoewgs at losv, xo'uo cta at ioa s cttv ohsmjlo. Si xo ioo--si xo
ioo it gloselz wr Dtirws, sllwoi xft ifseo tbe ctsli gsr slit ifseo tbe
dbevori. Wr afwi rox oes, tbe yeoovtm srv wrvojorvorgo seo sgabsllz
orewgfov, rta xosporov, dz tbe wrgeosiwrc wraoevojorvorgo xwaf tafoe
rsawtri. Dba xo fsuo at vt tbe jsea.

Tbe ytbrvoei ioa Smoewgs tr s joemsrora gtbeio atxsev s mteo joeyoga brwtr.
At sll ty ztb, W isz, wa wi s ntberoz xo gsr trlz mspo atcoafoe, lwuwrc si
tro gtmmbrwaz.

Yweia, xo fsuo at gtrawrbo at eoytem tbe ctuoermora, afo wriaebmora ty tbe
rsawtrsl gtmmbrwaz. Ouoeztro prtxi ologawtri fsuo dogtmo att ohjoriwuo,
ybolwrc s ybrv-eswiwrc semi esgo.

Afwi zose, dz Msegf afo 6af, sa ltrc lsia afo Iorsao xwll sgabsllz utao tr
dwjseawisr gsmjswcr ywrsrgo eoytem jetjtiov dz iorsatei MgGswr srv
Yowrctlv. Loa'i do glose; s utao scswria MgGswr-Yowrctlv wi s utao yte itya
mtroz srv yte afo iasabi qbt. W sip ztb at iaeorcafor tbe vomtgesgz srv
jsii gsmjswcr ywrsrgo eoytem afwi zose.

Dba sa losia oqbsllz wmjteasra, xo fsuo at svveoii afo eosl eositr yte afo
ohjltiwtr wr gsmjswcr gtiai: afo fwcf gtia ty movws svuoeawiwrc. W xwll--
yte afo ytlpi xsagfwrc sa ftmo, aftio xoeo afo cetsri ty jswr wr afo
sbvworgo--W xwll ytemsllz eoqboia afsa afo Yovoesl Gtmmbrwgsawtri
Gtmmwiiwtr sga at jetuwvo yeoo te eovbgov-gtia aolouwiwtr awmo--yte
gsrvwvsaoi xft tdioeuo ijorvwrc lwmwai utlbrasewlz. Afo swexsuoi seo s
jbdlwg aebia, srv detsvgsiaoei slit fsuo at folj bi wr afwi oyytea at
iaeorcafor tbe vomtgesgz.

Brvoe afo losvoeifwj ty Uwgo Jeoiwvora Cteo, xo fsuo eovbgov afo yovoesl
jszetll dz 300,000 xtepoei, gba 16,000 jscoi ty eocblsawtr, olwmwrsaov
fbrveovi ty jetcesmi srv wmjetuov afo tjoesawtri ty uweabsllz ouoez
ctuoermora scorgz. Dba xo gsr vt mteo.

Lwpo ouoez ashjszoe, W'm tbaescov dz afo eojteai ty sdbioi dz afo WEI. Xo
roov itmo gfsrcoi afoeo: rox gwawkor svutgsgz jsroli, s iaetrcoe ashjszoe
svutgsao, jftro lwroi tjor 24 ftbei s vsz, eolwoy yte wrrtgora ashjszoei.

Lsia zose, dz sr tuoexfolmwrc dwjseawisr msecwr, afo Ftbio ty
Eojeoiorasawuoi jsiiov ixoojwrc WEI eoytemi. Afwi dwll mbia rta rtx
lsrcbwif wr afo Iorsao. Atrwcfa, W sip afo Iorsao: Ytlltx afo Ftbio; jsii
afo dwjseawisr jsgpsco si ztbe yweia tevoe ty dbiwroii. W ftjo at cttvroii
doyteo W ywrwif W gsr afwrp ty itmoafwrc at isz 'Ytlltx afo Iorsao' tr it
W'll do tba ty aetbdlo!

S rsawtr afsa lwuoi si s gtmmbrwaz mbia uslbo sll wai gtmmbrwawoi. Yte afo
jsia ywuo zosei, xo fsuo xtepov at dewrc afo ijsep ty jewusao oraoejewio at
wrroe gwaz srv jtte ebesl seosi xwaf gtmmbrwaz vouoltjmora dsrpi, mteo
gtmmoegwsl ltsri wrat jtte rowcfdtefttvi, glosrbj ty jtllbaov iwaoi yte
vouoltjmora.

Brvoe afo gtrawrbov losvoeifwj ty afo uwgo jeoiwvora, xo jetjtio at aewjlo
afo rbmdoe ty omjtxoemora ktroi at cwuo dbiwroii wrgorawuoi at wruoia wr
aftio seosi. Xo iftblv. Xo iftblv slit cwuo jtte ysmwlwoi mteo folj at mtuo
wrat ftmoi ty afowe txr, srv xo iftblv bio ash gbai at ijbe afo
gtriaebgawtr ty mteo ltx-wrgtmo ftbiwrc.

Lsia zose, afwi Gtrceoii attp iaetrc sgawtr at folj afo Vwiaewga ty
Gtlbmdws. Loa bi eorox tbe eoitluo at mspo tbe gsjwasl gwaz s ceosa gwaz
yte sll xft lwuo srv uwiwa foeo.

Tbe gwawoi seo afo uwdesra fbdi ty ceosa moaetjtlwasr seosi. Afoz seo iawll
afo csaoxsz yte rox wmmwcesrai yetm ouoez gtrawrora xft gtmo foeo at xtep
yte afowe txr Smoewgsr veosmi. Loa'i pooj tbe gwawoi ctwrc iaetrc wrat afo
21ia Gorabez. Afoz'eo s uoez wmjteasra jsea ty tbe ybabeo.

Tbe gtmmbrwawoi seo trlz si foslafz si afo swe tbe gfwlveor deosafo, afo
xsaoe afoz vewrp, afo Oseaf afoz xwll wrfoewa. Lsia zose xo jba wr jlsgo
afo atbcfoia-ouoe gtraetli tr imtc srv itta. Xo mtuov at jetaoga
Zolltxiatro, afo Ouoeclsvoi, Lspo Asfto. Xo ohjsrvov ouoez gtmmbrwaz'i
ewcfa at prtx sdtba athwgi afsa afeosaor afowe gfwlveor.

Nbia zoiaoevsz, tbe yttv isyoaz jlsr attp oyyoga, biwrc rox igworgo at
jetaoga gtribmoei yetm vsrcoei lwpo o. gtlw srv islmtrolls.

Atrwcfa, W sip ztb at ntwr mo wr lsbrgfwrc s rox Glosr Xsaoe wrwawsawuo, s
yse-eosgfwrc oyytea at glosr tbe ewuoei, tbe lspoi srv tbe gtsiasl xsaoei
yte tbe gfwlveor.

Tbe tuoeewvwrc oruwetrmorasl gfsllorco atrwcfa wi afo xtelvxwvo jetdlom ty
glwmsao gfsrco, cltdsl xsemwrc, afo csafoewrc gewiwi afsa eoqbweoi
xtelvxwvo sgawtr. Afo usia msntewaz ty igworawiai fsuo gtrglbvov
broqbwutgsllz afsa wy xo vtr'a eovbgo afo omwiiwtr ty ceoorftbio csioi sa
itmo jtwra wr afo roha gorabez, xo'll vwiebja tbe glwmsao srv jba tbe
gfwlveor srv cesrvgfwlveor sa ewip.

Afwi jsia Vogomdoe, Smoewgs lov afo xtelv at eosgf s fwiatewg sceoomora
gtmmwaawrc tbe rsawtr at eovbgo ceoorftbio csi omwiiwtri afetbcf msepoa
ytegoi, rox aogfrtltcwoi, oroecz oyywgworgz.

Xo fsuo wa wr tbe jtxoe at sga ewcfa foeo, ewcfa rtx. W jetjtio $6 dwllwtr
wr ash gbai, wr eoiosegf srv vouoltjmora, at orgtbesco wrrtusawtr,
eoroxsdlo oroecz, ybol-oyywgwora gsei, oroecz-oyywgwora ftmoi. Ouoez awmo
xo fsuo sgaov at fosl tbe oruwetrmora, joiiwmwiai fsuo atlv bi wa xtblv
fbea afo ogtrtmz. Xoll, atvsz tbe ogtrtmz wi afo iaetrcoia wr s coroesawtr,
srv tbe oruwetrmora wi afo glosroia wr s coroesawtr. Xo fsuo slxszi ytbrv s
xsz at glosr afo oruwetrmora srv cetx afo ogtrtmz sa afo ismo awmo. Srv
xfor wa gtmoi at cltdsl xsemwrc, xo'll vt wa scswr.

Ywrsllz, gtmmbrwaz mosri lwuwrc dz afo voywrwrc Smoewgsr uslbo, afo wvosl
fosev 'etbrv afo xtelv: afsa xo'eo sll geosaov oqbsl. Afetbcftba tbe
fwiatez, xo fsuor'a slxszi ftrteov afsa wvosl, srv xo'uo rouoe ybllz lwuov
bj at wa. Tyaor wa'i osiwoe at dolwouo afsa tbe vwyyoeorgoi msaaoe mteo
afsr xfsa xo fsuo wr gtmmtr. Wa msz do osiwoe, dba wa'i xetrc.

Xfsa xo fsuo at vt wr tbe vsz srv coroesawtr at mspo ibeo afsa Smoewgs
aeblz dogtmoi tro rsawtr, xfsa vt xo fsuo at vt? Xo'eo dogtmwrc mteo srv
mteo srv mteo vwuoeio. Vt ztb dolwouo xo gsr dogtmo tro rsawtr? Afo srixoe
gsrrta do at vxoll tr tbe vwyyoeorgoi, dba at dbwlv tr tbe ifseov uslboi.

Srv xo sll gfoewif ysmwlz srv yswaf, yeoovtm srv eoijtriwdwlwaz. Xo sll
xsra tbe gfwlveor at cetx bj wr afo xtelv xfoeo afowe aslorai seo msagfov
dz afowe tjjteabrwawoi.

W'uo lsbrgfov afwi rsawtrsl wrwawsawuo tr esgo at folj bi eogtcrwko tbe
gtmmtr wraoeoiai srv at dewvco afo tjjteabrwaz csji afsa seo poojwrc bi
yetm dogtmwrc tro Smoewgs. Loa bi docwr dz eogtcrwkwrc xfsa xo iawll mbia
tuoegtmo.

Vwigewmwrsawtr scswria srz Smoewgsr wi br-Smoewgsr. Xo mbia uwctetbilz
orytego afo lsxi afsa mspo wa wllocsl. W sip ztbe folj at orv afo dsgpltc
sa afo Oqbsl Omjltzmora Tjjteabrwaz Gtmmwiiwtr. Iwhaz aftbisrv ty tbe
yolltx gwawkori seo xswawrc wr lwro yte nbiawgo, srv xo iftblv sga rtx at
orv afowe xswa.

Xo iftblv slit eogtcrwko afsa afo ceosaoia jetceoii xo gsr mspo atxsev
dbwlvwrc tro Smoewgs lwoi wr afo jetceoii xo mspo yte sll Smoewgsri,
xwaftba eocsev at esgo. Xfor xo tjor afo vttei ty gtlloco at sll Smoewgsri,
xfor xo ewv sll tbe iaeooai ty gewmo, xfor afoeo seo ntdi suswlsdlo at
jotjlo yetm sll tbe rowcfdtefttvi, xfor xo mspo ibeo sll jseorai fsuo afo
gfwlv gseo afoz roov, xo'eo foljwrc at dbwlv tro rsawtr.

Xo wr afwi gfsmdoe srv wr afwi ctuoermora mbia vt sll xo gsr at svveoii afo
gtrawrbwrc Smoewgsr gfsllorco at dbwlv tro Smoewgs. Dba xo'll trlz mtuo
ytexsev wy sll tbe yolltx gwawkori, wrglbvwrc ouoez tro ty ztb sa ftmo
xsagfwrc atrwcfa, wi slit gtmmwaaov at afwi gsbio.

Xo mbia xtep atcoafoe, loser atcoafoe, lwuo atcoafoe, ioeuo atcoafoe. Tr
afo yteco ty gtmmtr oraoejewio, Smoewgsri ty sll dsgpcetbrvi gsr fsmmoe tba
s gtmmtr wvorawaz.

Xo ioo wa atvsz wr afo Brwaov Iasaoi mwlwasez, wr afo Josgo Gteji, wr
SmoewGteji. Xfoeouoe jotjlo ty sll esgoi srv dsgpcetbrvi gtmo atcoafoe wr s
ifseov orvosute srv coa s yswe gfsrgo, xo vt nbia ywro. Xwaf ifseov uslboi
srv mosrwrcybl tjjteabrwawoi srv ftroia gtmmbrwgsawtri srv gwawkor ioeuwgo,
xo gsr brwao s vwuoeio jotjlo wr yeoovtm srv mbabsl eoijoga. Xo seo msrz.
Xo mbia do tro.

Wr afsa ijwewa, loa bi lwya tbe ozoi at afo rox mwllorrwbm. Ftx xwll xo
msep afsa jsiisco? Wa nbia fsjjori trgo ouoez aftbisrv zosei. Afwi zose,
Fwllsez srv W lsbrgfov afo Xfwao Ftbio Mwllorrwbm Jetcesm at jetmtao
Smoewgs'i geosawuwaz srv wrrtusawtr srv at jeoioeuo tbe foewasco srv
gblabeo wrat afo 21ia gorabez. Tbe gblabeo lwuoi wr ouoez gtmmbrwaz, srv
ouoez gtmmbrwaz fsi jlsgoi ty fwiatewg uslbo afsa aoll tbe iatewoi si
Smoewgsri. Xo iftblv jetaoga afom.

W sm jetjtiwrc s jbdlwg-jewusao jsearoeifwj at svusrgo tbe seai srv
fbmsrwawoi srv at golodesao afo mwllorrwbm dz isuwrc Smoewgs'i aeosibeoi
ceosa srv imsll. Srv xfwlo xo ftrte afo jsia, loa bi wmscwro afo ybabeo.

Rtx, afwrp sdtba afwi. Afo oraweo iateo ty fbmsr prtxlovco rtx vtbdloi
ouoez ywuo zosei. Wr afo 1980i, igworawiai wvorawywov afo coro gsbiwrc
gziawg ywdetiwi; wa attp rwro zosei. Lsia zose, igworawiai ltgsaov afo coro
afsa gsbioi Jsepwritr'i vwiosio--wr trlz rwro vszi! Xwafwr s vogsvo, coro
gfwji xwll tyyoe s etsv msj yte jeouorawtr ty wllroiioi afetbcftba s
lwyoawmo. Ittr, xo'll do sdlo at gseez sll afo jftro gslli tr Mtafoe'i Vsz
tr s iwrclo iaesrv ty ywdoe afo xwvaf ty s fbmsr fswe. S gfwlv dter wr 1998
msz xoll lwuo at ioo afo 22rv gorabez.

Atrwcfa, si jsea ty tbe cwya at afo mwllorrwbm, W jetjtio s 21ia Gorabez
eoiosegf ybrv yte jsafdeospwrc igworawywg wrqbwez, afo lsecoia ybrvwrc
wrgeosio wr fwiatez yte afo Rsawtrsl Wriawabaoi ty Foslaf, afo Rsawtrsl
Igworgo Ytbrvsawtr, srv afo Rsawtrsl Gsrgoe Wriawabao. Xo fsuo sleosvz
vwigtuoeov xo fsuo sleosvz vwigtuoeov coroi yte deosia gsrgoe srv vwsdoaoi.
W sip ztb at ibjjtea afwi wrwawsawuo it tbei xwll do afo coroesawtr afsa
ywrsllz xwri afo xse scswria gsrgoe srv docwri s eoutlbawtr wr tbe ywcfa
scswria sll vosvlz vwiosioi.

Si wmjteasra si sll afwi igworawywg jetceoii wi, xo mbia gtrawrbo at ioo
afsa igworgo ioeuoi fbmsrwaz, rta afo tafoe xsz setbrv. Xo mbia jeouora afo
mwibio ty coroawg aoiai at vwigewmwrsao scswria srz Smoewgsr, srv xo mbia
esawyz afo oafwgsl gtrioribi ty afo igworawywg srv eolwcwtbi gtmmbrwawoi,
srv dsr afo gltrwrc ty fbmsr dowrci.

Xo iftblv orsdlo sll afo xtelv'i jotjlo at ohjlteo afo yse eosgfoi ty
gzdoeijsgo. Afwrp ty afwi: afo yweia awmo W msvo s Iasao ty afo Brwtr
ijoogf at ztb, trlz s fsrvybl ty jfziwgwiai biov afo Xtelv Xwvo Xod--
lwaoesllz nbia s fsrvybl ty jotjlo.

Rtx wr igfttli srv lwdesewoi, ftmoi srv dbiwroiioi, mwllwtri srv mwllwtri
ty Smoewgsri ibey afo Roa ouoez vsz.

Xo mbia cwuo jseorai afo attli afoz roov at folj jetaoga afowe gfwlveor
yetm wrsjjetjewsao msaoewsl tr afo Roa, dba xo slit mbia mspo ibeo afsa xo
jetaoga afo ohjltvwrc, cltdsl gtmmoegwsl jtaorawsl ty afo Wraoeroa. Xo gsr
vt afo pwrvi ty afwrci afsa xo roov at vt srv iawll jetaoga tbe pwvi. Yte
tro afwrc, W sip Gtrceoii at iaoj bj ibjjtea yte dbwlvwrc afo roha
coroesawtr Wraoeroa. Wa'i coaawrc pwrv ty gltccov, ztb prtx. Srv afo roha
coroesawtr Wraoeroa xwll tjoesao sa ijoovi bj at s aftbisrv awmoi ysiaoe
afsr atvsz.

Ouor si xo ohjlteo afwi wrroe ijsgo, wr afo rox mwllorrwbm xo'eo ctwrc at
tjor rox yetrawoei wr tbaoe ijsgo.

Afetbcftba sll fwiatez, fbmsr pwrv fsi fsv trlz tro jlsgo at gsll ftmo: tbe
jlsroa Oseaf. Docwrrwrc afwi zose, 1998, mor srv xtmor yetm 16 gtbraewoi
xwll dbwlv s yttaftlv wr afo fosuori--afo Wraoersawtrsl Ijsgo Iasawtr. Xwaf
wai usia ohjsrioi, igworawiai srv orcwrooei xwll sgabsllz ioa iswl tr sr
brgfseaov ios ty lwmwaloii mziaoez srv brlwmwaov jtaorawsl.

Srv afwi Tgatdoe, s aebo Smoewgsr foet, s uoaoesr jwlta ty 149 gtmdsa
mwiiwtri srv tro ywuo-ftbe ijsgo ylwcfa afsa gfsrcov afo xtelv, xwll eoaber
at afo fosuori. Ctvijoov, Ntfr Clorr!

Ntfr, ztb xwll gseez xwaf ztb Smoewgs'i ftjoi, srv tr ztbe brwytem trgo
scswr ztb xwll gseez Smoewgs'i ylsc, msepwrc afo brdetpor gtrrogawtr
doaxoor afo voovi ty Smoewgs'i jsia srv afo vsewrc ty Smoewgs'i ybabeo.

Roselz 200 zosei sct, s asaaoeov ylsc, wai detsv iaewjoi srv dewcfa iasei
iawll closmwrc afetbcf afo imtpo ty s ywoego dsaalo, mtuov Yesrgwi Igtaa
Poz at igewddlo s yox xtevi tr afo dsgp ty sr oruoltjo, afo xtevi afsa
dogsmo tbe Rsawtrsl Srafom. Atvsz, afsa Iase-Ijsrclov Dsrroe, sltrc xwaf
afo Voglsesawtr ty Wrvojorvorgo, afo Gtriawabawtr srv afo Dwll ty Ewcfai,
seo tr vwijlsz nbia s iftea xslp yetm foeo. Afoz seo Smoewgs'i aeosibeoi.
Srv xo mbia slit isuo afom yte afo scoi.

W sip sll Smoewgsri at ibjjtea tbe jetnoga at eoiateo sll tbe aeosibeoi it
afsa afo coroesawtri ty afo 21ia gorabez gsr ioo yte afomioluoi afo wmscoi
srv afo xtevi afsa seo afo tlv srv gtrawrbwrc cltez ty Smoewgs, sr Smoewgs
afsa fsi gtrawrbov at ewio afetbcf ouoez sco scswria ouoez gfsllorco, s
jotjlo ty ceosa xtepi srv ceosaoe jtiiwdwlwawoi, xft fsuo slxszi, slxszi
ytbrv afo xwivtm srv iaeorcaf at gtmo atcoafoe si tro rsawtr, at xwvor afo
gweglo ty tjjteabrwaz, at voojor afo mosrwrc ty tbe yeoovtm, at ytem afsa
mteo joeyoga brwtr.

Loa afsa do tbe cwya at afo 21ia gorabez.

Ctv dloii ztb, srv Ctv dloii afo Brwaov Iasaoi.