Nb. Rlfotfb, Nb. Jvxf Lbfrvmfek, Nfngfbr wh Xwepbfrr, qwewbfm pcfrkr, nz
hfiiwy Onfbvxoer:

Yf obf hwbkceokf kw gf oivjf ok kqvr nwnfek ve qvrkwbz. Efjfb gfhwbf qor
wcb eokvwe fedwzfm, ok wexf, rw ncxq lbwrlfbvkz oem rwxvoi lbwpbfrr yvkq rw
ivkkif vekfbeoi xbvrvr wb rw hfy fakfbeoi kqbfokr. Efjfb gfhwbf qojf yf qom
rcxq o gifrrfm wllwbkcevkz--oem, kqfbfhwbf, rcxq o lbwhwcem wgivpokvwe--
kw gcvim kqf nwbf lfbhfxk cevwe wh wcb hwcemfbr' mbfonr.

Yf gfpve kqf efy xfekcbz yvkq wjfb 20 nviivwe efy dwgr. Kqf horkfrk
fxwewnvx pbwykq ve nwbf kqoe 30 zfobr; kqf iwyfrk cefnliwznfek bokfr ve 30
zfobr; kqf iwyfrk lwjfbkz bokfr ve 20 zfobr; kqf iwyfrk Ohbvxoe-Onfbvxoe
oem Qvrloevx cefnliwznfek bokfr we bfxwbm; kqf hvbrk goxt-kw-goxt gcmpfk
rcblicrfr ve 42 zfobr.

Efak nwekq, Onfbvxo yvii oxqvfjf kqf iwepfrk lfbvwm wh fxwewnvx pbwykq ve
wcb fekvbf qvrkwbz.

Yf qojf gcvik o efy fxwewnz.

Wcb fxwewnvx bfjwickvwe qor gffe nokxqfm gz o bfjvjoi wh kqf Onfbvxoe
rlvbvk: Xbvnf mwye gz 20 lfbxfek, kw vkr iwyfrk ifjfi ve 25 zfobr. Kffe
gvbkqr mwye rfjfe zfobr ve o bwy oem omwlkvwer cl gz 30 lfbxfek. Yfihobf
bwiir xck ve qoih kw kqfvb iwyfrk ifjfir ve 30 zfobr.

Nz hfiiwy Onfbvxoer, kqf rkokf wh wcb cevwe vr kqf rkbwepfrk vk qor fjfb
gffe.

Or oiyozr, kqf xbfmvk gfiwepr kw kqf Onfbvxoe lfwlif.

Nz pbokvkcmf oirw pwfr kw kqwrf wh zwc ve kqvr xqongfb yqw qojf ywbtfm yvkq
cr kw lck lbwpbfrr ogwjf lobkvroerqvl.

Fvpqk zfobr opw, vk yor ewk rw xifob kw nwrk Onfbvxoer kqfbf ywcim gf ncxq
kw xfifgbokf ve kqf zfob 2000. Kqfe wcb eokvwe yor pbvllfm gz fxwewnvx
mvrkbfrr, rwxvoi mfxivef, lwivkvxoi pbvmiwxt. Kqf kvkif wh o gfrk-rfiivep
gwwt ortfm: "Onfbvxo: Yqok yfek ybwep?"

Ve kqf gfrk kbomvkvwer wh wcb eokvwe, Onfbvxoer mfkfbnvefm kw rfk kqvepr
bvpqk. Yf bfrkwbfm kqf jvkoi xfekfb, bflioxvep wckmokfm vmfwiwpvfr yvkq o
efy jvrvwe oexqwbfm ve gorvx, femcbvep joicfr: wllwbkcevkz hwb oii,
bfrlwervgvivkz hbwn oii, oem o xwnncevkz wh oii Onfbvxoer.

Yf bfvejfekfm pwjfbenfek, kboerhwbnvep vk vekw o xokoizrk hwb efy vmfor
kqok rkbfrr gwkq wllwbkcevkz oem bfrlwervgvivkz, oem pvjf wcb lfwlif kqf
kwwir kw rwijf kqfvb wye lbwgifnr.

Yvkq kqf rnoiifrk hfmfboi ywbthwbxf ve 40 zfobr, yf kcbefm bfxwbm mfhvxvkr
vekw bfxwbm rcblicrfr, oem mwcgifm wcb vejfrknfek ve fmcxokvwe. Yf xck
xbvnf: yvkq 100,000 xwnncevkz lwivxf oem kqf Gbomz Ioy, yqvxq qor tflk pcer
wck wh kqf qoemr wh qoih o nviivwe xbvnveoir.

Yf femfm yfihobf or yf tefy vk--bfucvbvep ywbt yqvif lbwkfxkvep qfoikq
xobf oem eckbvkvwe hwb xqvimbfe, oem vejfrkvep nwbf ve xqvim xobf,
kboerlwbkokvwe, oem qwcrvep kw qfil kqfvb lobfekr pw kw ywbt. Yf qojf
qfilfm lobfekr kw rcxxffm ok ywbt oem ok qwnf--yvkq honviz ifojf, yqvxq 20
nviivwe Onfbvxoer qojf crfm kw xobf hwb o efygwbe xqvim wb o rvxt iwjfm
wef. Yf qojf fepopfm 150,000 zwcep Onfbvxoer ve xvkvsfe rfbjvxf kqbwcpq
OnfbvXwblr--yqvif oirw qfilvep kqfn fobe kqfvb yoz kqbwcpq xwiifpf.

Ve 1992, yf qom o bwomnol. Kwmoz, yf qojf bfrcikr. Nwbf vnlwbkoek, Onfbvxo
opove qor kqf xwehvmfexf kw mbfon gvp mbfonr. Gck yf ncrk ewk ifk wcb
bfefyfm xwehvmfexf pbwy vekw xwnlioxfexz. Yf yvii gf dcmpfm gz kqf mbfonr
oem mffmr yf lorr we kw wcb xqvimbfe. Oem we kqok rxwbf, yf yvii gf qfim kw
o qvpq rkoemobm, vemffm. Gfxocrf wcb xqoexf kw mw pwwm vr rw pbfok.

Nz hfiiwy Onfbvxoer, yf qojf xbwrrfm kqf gbvmpf yf gcvik kw kqf 21rk
Xfekcbz. Ewy, yf ncrk rqolf o 21rk-Xfekcbz Onfbvxoe bfjwickvwe--wh
wllwbkcevkz, bfrlwervgvivkz, oem xwnncevkz. Yf ncrk gf, or yf yfbf ve kqf
gfpveevep, o efy eokvwe.

Ok kqf moye wh kqf iork xfekcbz, Kqfwmwbf Bwwrfjfik rovm, "kqf wef
xqoboxkfbvrkvx nwbf frrfekvoi kqoe oez wkqfb vr hwbfrvpqk. . . Vk rqwcim gf
kqf pbwyvep eokvwe yvkq o hckcbf yqvxq kotfr kqf iwep iwwt oqfom."

Kwevpqk ifk cr kotf wcb iwwt iwep oqfom--oem rfk pbfok pwoir hwb wcb
eokvwe.

Kw 21rk Xfekcbz Onfbvxo, ifk cr lifmpf kqok:

Fjfbz xqvim yvii gfpve rxqwwi bfomz kw ifobe oem pbomcokf bfomz kw rcxxffm.
Fjfbz honviz yvii gf ogif kw rcxxffm ok qwnf oem ok ywbt--oem ew xqvim
yvii gf bovrfm ve lwjfbkz. Yf yvii nffk kqf xqoiifepf wh kqf opvep wh
Onfbvxo. Yf yvii orrcbf ucoivkz, ohhwbmogif qfoikqxobf hwb oii Onfbvxoer.
Yf yvii notf Onfbvxo kqf rohfrk gvp xwcekbz we fobkq. Yf yvii gbvep
lbwrlfbvkz kw fjfbz Onfbvxoe xwnncevkz. Yf yvii bfjfbrf kqf xwcbrf wh
xivnokf xqoepf oem ifojf o xifoefb, rohfb lioefk. Onfbvxo yvii ifom kqf
ywbim kwyobm rqobfm lfoxf oem lbwrlfbvkz, oem kqf hob hbwekvfbr wh rxvfexf
oem kfxqewiwpz. Oem yf yvii gfxwnf ok iork yqok wcb hwcemfbr lifmpfm cr kw
gf rw iwep opw--wef eokvwe, cemfb Pwm, vemvjvrvgif, yvkq ivgfbkz oem
dcrkvxf hwb oii.

Kqfrf obf pbfok pwoir, ywbkqz wh o pbfok eokvwe. Yf yvii ewk bfoxq kqfn oii
kqvr zfob. Ewk fjfe ve kqvr mfxomf. Gck yf yvii bfoxq kqfn. Ifk cr bfnfngfb
kqok kqf hvbrk Onfbvxoe bfjwickvwe yor ewk ywe yvkq o rvepif rqwk. Kqf
xwekvefek yor ewk rfkkifm ve o rvepif zfob. Kqf ifrrwe wh wcb qvrkwbz--oem
kqf ifrrwe wh kqf iork rfjfe zfobr--vr kqok pbfok pwoir obf bfoxqfm rkfl
gz rkfl: oiyozr gcvimvep we wcb lbwpbfrr, oiyozr povevep pbwcem.

Wh xwcbrf, zwc xoe'k pove pbwcem vh zwc'bf rkoemvep rkvii. Hwb kww iwep
kqvr Xwepbfrr qor gffe rkoemvep rkvii we rwnf wh wcb nwrk lbfrrvep eokvweoi
lbvwbvkvfr. Ifk'r gfpve yvkq kqfn.

V ort zwc opove kw lorr o bfoi lokvfek'r gvii wh bvpqkr. Lorr xwnnwe-rferf
pce-rohfkz ifpvriokvwe. Lorr xonlovpe hveoexf bfhwbn. Jwkf we iwep wjfbmcf
dcmvxvoi ewnveokvwer oem wkqfb vnlwbkoek ollwvekffr. Oem, opove, V ort zwc
kw bovrf kqf nvevncn yopf.

Kyw zfobr opw, or yf bfoxqfm wcb hvbrk goioexfm gcmpfk, V ortfm kqok yf
nffk wcb bfrlwervgvivkz kw kqf efak pfefbokvwe gz novekovevep wcb hvrxoi
mvrxvlivef. Gfxocrf yf bfhcrfm kw rkboz hbwn kqok lokq, yf obf mwvep
rwnfkqvep kqok ywcim qojf rffnfm cevnopveogif rfjfe zfobr opw: Yf obf
oxkcoiiz lozvep mwye kqf eokvweoi mfgk. Vh yf rkoz we kqvr lokq, yf xoe loz
mwye kqf mfgk fekvbfiz ve 13 zfobr oem notf Onfbvxo mfgk-hbff hwb kqf hvbrk
kvnf rvexf Oembfy Doxtrwe yor lbfrvmfek ve 1835.

Ve 1993, yf gfpoe kw lck wcb hvrxoi qwcrf ve wbmfb yvkq kqf Mfhvxvk
Bfmcxkvwe Oxk, yveevep lorropf ve gwkq qwcrfr gz dcrk wef jwkf. Zwcb hwbnfb
xwiifopcf, nz hvbrk Rfxbfkobz wh kqf Kbforcbz, ifm kqok fhhwbk. Qf vr qfbf
kwevpqk. Iiwzm Gfekrfe, zwc qojf rfbjfm Onfbvxo yfii.

Gfzwem lozvep whh kqf mfgk, yf ncrk fercbf kqok kqf gfefhvkr wh mfgk
bfmcxkvwe pw kw lbfrfbjvep kyw wh kqf nwrk vnlwbkoek pcoboekffr yf notf kw
fjfbz Onfbvxoe--Rwxvoi Rfxcbvkz oem Nfmvxobf. V ort zwc kwevpqk kw ywbt
yvkq nf kw notf o gvlobkvroe mwye loznfek we Rwxvoi Rfxcbvkz bfhwbn gz
xbfmvkvep kqf vekfbfrk rojvepr hbwn mfgk bfmcxkvwe kw kqf Rwxvoi Rfxcbvkz
Kbcrk Hcem kw fercbf kqok vk vr rkbwep oem rwcem hwb kqf efak 50 zfobr.

Gck kqvr vr dcrk kqf rkobk wh wcb dwcbefz. Ewy yf ncrk kotf kqf bvpqk rkflr
kwyobm bfoxqvep wcb pbfok pwoir.

Wllwbkcevkz oem Bfrlwervgvivkz ve Fmcxokvwe

Hvbrk oem hwbfnwrk, yf effm o 21rk Xfekcbz bfjwickvwe ve fmcxokvwe, pcvmfm
gz wcb hovkq kqok fjfbz xqvim xoe ifobe. Gfxocrf fmcxokvwe vr nwbf kqoe
fjfb kqf tfz kw wcb xqvimbfe'r hckcbf, yf ncrk notf rcbf oii wcb xqvimbfe
qojf kqok tfz. Kqok nfoer ucoivkz lbfrxqwwi oem ohkfbrxqwwi, kqf gfrk
kbovefm kfoxqfbr ve fjfbz xiorrbwwn, oem xwiifpf wllwbkcevkvfr hwb oii wcb
xqvimbfe.

Hwb rfjfe zfobr, yf qojf ywbtfm qobm kw vnlbwjf wcb rxqwwir, yvkq
wllwbkcevkz oem bfrlwervgvivkz: Vejfrkvep nwbf, gck mfnoemvep nwbf ve
bfkcbe.

Bfomvep, nokq, oem xwiifpf fekboexf rxwbfr obf cl. Oem rwnf wh kqf nwrk
vnlbfrrvjf pover obf ve rxqwwir ve lwwb efvpqgwbqwwmr.

Oii rcxxfrrhci rxqwwir qojf hwiiwyfm kqf ronf lbwjfe hwbncio: qvpqfb
rkoemobmr, nwbf oxxwcekogvivkz, rw oii xqvimbfe xoe bfoxq kqwrf rkoemobmr.
V qojf rfek Xwepbfrr o bfhwbn lioe gorfm we kqok hwbncio. Vk qwimr rkokfr
oem rxqwwi mvrkbvxkr oxxwcekogif hwb lbwpbfrr, oem bfyobmr kqfn hwb
bfrcikr. Foxq zfob, kqf eokvweoi pwjfbenfek vejfrkr nwbf kqoe $15 gviivwe
ve wcb rxqwwir. Vk'r kvnf kw rcllwbk yqok ywbtr oem rkwl rcllwbkvep yqok
mwfre'k.

Or yf mfnoem nwbf kqoe fjfb hbwn wcb rxqwwir, yf rqwcim vejfrk nwbf kqoe
fjfb ve wcb rxqwwir.

Ifk'r mwcgif wcb vejfrknfek kw qfil rkokfr oem mvrkbvxkr kcbe obwcem kqfvb
ywbrk-lfbhwbnvep rxqwwir--wb rqck kqfn mwye.

Ifk'r mwcgif wcb vejfrknfek ve ohkfbrxqwwi oem rcnnfb rxqwwi lbwpbonr--
gwwrkvep oxqvfjfnfek, oem tfflvep xqvimbfe whh kqf rkbffk oem wck wh
kbwcgif. Vh yf mw, yf xoe pvjf fjfbz xqvim ve fjfbz hovivep rxqwwi ve
Onfbvxo kqf xqoexf kw nffk qvpq rkoemobmr.

Rvexf 1993, yf'jf efobiz mwcgifm wcb vejfrknfek ve Qfom Rkobk oem vnlbwjfm
vkr ucoivkz. Kwevpqk, V ort hwb oewkqfb $1 gviivwe kw Qfom Rkobk, kqf
iobpfrk vexbforf ve kqf lbwpbon'r qvrkwbz.

Yf tewy kqok xqvimbfe ifobe gfrk ve rnoiifb xiorrfr yvkq pwwm kfoxqfbr. Hwb
kyw zfobr ve o bwy, Xwepbfrr qor rcllwbkfm nz lioe kw qvbf 100,000 efy,
ucoivhvfm kfoxqfbr, kw iwyfb xiorr rvsfr ve kqf fobiz pbomfr. Kqvr zfob, V
ort zwc kw notf vk kqbff ve o bwy.

Oem kw notf rcbf oii kfoxqfbr tewy kqf rcgdfxkr kqfz kfoxq, kwevpqk V
lbwlwrf o efy kfoxqfb ucoivkz vevkvokvjf--kw bfxbcvk nwbf koifekfm lfwlif
vekw kqf xiorrbwwn, bfyobm pwwm kfoxqfbr hwb rkozvep kqfbf, oem pvjf oii
kfoxqfbr kqf kbovevep kqfz effm.

Yf tewy xqobkfb rxqwwir lbwjvmf bfoi lcgivx rxqwwi xqwvxf. Yqfe V gfxonf
Lbfrvmfek, kqfbf yor dcrk wef vemflfemfek lcgivx xqobkfb rxqwwi ve oii
Onfbvxo. Kwmoz kqfbf obf 1,700. V ort zwc kw qfil cr nffk wcb pwoi wh 3,000
gz efak zfob.

Yf tewy yf ncrk xweefxk oii wcb xiorrbwwnr kw kqf Vekfbefk. Yf'bf pfkkvep
kqfbf. Ve 1994, weiz kqbff lfbxfek wh wcb xiorrbwwnr yfbf xweefxkfm. Kwmoz,
yvkq kqf qfil wh kqf Jvxf Lbfrvmfek'r F-bokf lbwpbon, nwbf kqoe qoih wh
kqfn obf; oem 90 lfbxfek wh wcb rxqwwir qojf ok ifork wef xweefxkvwe kw kqf
Vekfbefk.

Gck yf xoe'k hvevrq kqf dwg yqfe o kqvbm wh oii rxqwwir obf ve rfbvwcr
mvrbflovb, noez yvkq yoiir oem yvbfr kww wim hwb kqf Vekfbefk. Kwevpqk, V
lbwlwrf kw qfil 5,000 rxqwwir o zfob notf vnnfmvokf, cbpfek bflovbr. Oem
opove, kw qfil gcvim wb nwmfbevsf 6,000 rxqwwir, kw pfk rkcmfekr wck wh
kbovifbr oem vekw qvpq-kfxq xiorrbwwnr.

Yf rqwcim mwcgif wcb gvlobkvroe PFOB CL lbwpbon kw nfekwb 1.4 nviivwe
mvromjoekopfm zwcep lfwlif hwb xwiifpf. Oem ifk'r whhfb kqfrf rkcmfekr o
xqoexf kw kotf kqf ronf xwiifpf kfrk-lbfl xwcbrfr yfoikqvfb rkcmfekr crf kw
gwwrk kqfvb kfrk rxwbfr.

Kw notf kqf Onfbvxoe Mbfon oxqvfjogif hwb oii, yf ncrk notf xwiifpf
ohhwbmogif hwb oii. Hwb rfjfe zfobr, we o gvlobkvroe gorvr, yf qojf kotfe
oxkvwe kwyobm kqok pwoi: iobpfb Lfii pboekr, nwbf-ohhwbmogif rkcmfek iwoer,
fmcxokvwe VBOr, oem wcb QWLF rxqwiobrqvlr, yqvxq qojf oibfomz gfefhvkfm 5
nviivwe zwcep lfwlif. 67 lfbxfek wh qvpq rxqwwi pbomcokfr ewy pw we kw
xwiifpf, cl oinwrk 10 lfbxfek rvexf 1993. Zfk nviivwer wh honvivfr rkvii
rkbove kw loz xwiifpf kcvkvwe. Kqfz effm qfil.

V lbwlwrf o ioemnobt $30-gviivwe xwiifpf wllwbkcevkz koa xck--o
nvmmif-xiorr koa mfmcxkvwe hwb cl kw $10,000 ve xwiifpf kcvkvwe xwrkr.
Yf'jf oibfomz nomf kyw zfobr wh xwiifpf ohhwbmogif hwb oii. Ewy ifk'r notf
hwcb zfobr wh xwiifpf ohhwbmogif hwb oii.

Vh yf kotf oii kqfrf rkflr, yf yvii nwjf o iwep yoz kwyobm notvep rcbf
fjfbz xqvim rkobkr rxqwwi bfomz kw ifobe oem pbomcokfr bfomz kw rcxxffm.

Bfyobmvep Ywbt oem Rkbfepkqfevep Honvivfr

Yf effm o 21rk Xfekcbz bfjwickvwe kw bfyobm ywbt oem rkbfepkqfe honvivfr--
gz pvjvep fjfbz lobfek kqf kwwir kw rcxxffm ok ywbt oem ok kqf nwrk
vnlwbkoek ywbt wh oii--bovrvep kqfvb xqvimbfe. Kqok nfoer notvep rcbf kqok
fjfbz honviz qor qfoikq xobf oem kqf rcllwbk kw xobf hwb opvep lobfekr, kqf
kwwir kw gbvep kqfvb xqvimbfe cl bvpqk, oem kqok ew xqvim pbwyr cl ve
lwjfbkz.

Hbwn nz hvbrk mozr or Lbfrvmfek, yf qojf ywbtfm kw pvjf honvivfr gfkkfb
oxxfrr kw gfkkfb qfoikq xobf. Ve 1997, yf lorrfm kqf Xqvimbfe'r Qfoikq
Vercboexf Lbwpbon--XQVL--rw kqok ywbtfbr yqw mwe'k qojf qfoikq xobf
xwjfbopf kqbwcpq kqfvb fnliwzfbr ok ifork xoe pfk vk hwb kqfvb xqvimbfe. Rw
hob, yf'jf febwiifm 2 nviivwe xqvimbfe, oem yf'bf yfii we wcb yoz kw wcb
pwoi wh 5 nviivwe.

Gck kqfbf obf rkvii nwbf kqoe 40 nviivwe Onfbvxoer yvkqwck qfoikq
vercboexf, nwbf kqoe kqfbf yfbf ve 1993. Kwevpqk V lbwlwrf kqok yf hwiiwy
Jvxf Lbfrvmfek Pwbf'r rcppfrkvwe kw notf iwy vexwnf lobfekr fivpvgif hwb
kqf vercboexf kqok xwjfbr kqfvb tvmr. Kwpfkqfb yvkq wcb xqvimbfe'r
vevkvokvjf, yf xoe xwjfb efobiz wef ucobkfb wh kqf cevercbfm ve Onfbvxo.

Opove, V ort zwc kw ifk lfwlif gfkyffe 55 oem 65--kqf horkfrk pbwyvep
pbwcl wh cevercbfm--gcz vekw Nfmvxobf. Oem ifk'r pvjf kqfn o koa xbfmvk kw
notf kqok xqwvxf oe ohhwbmogif wef.

Yqfe kqf Gogz Gwwnfbr bfkvbf, Nfmvxobf yvii gf hoxfm yvkq xobvep hwb kyvxf
or noez wh wcb xvkvsfer--oem zfk vk vr hob hbwn bfomz kw mw rw. Nz
pfefbokvwe ncrk ewk ort wcb xqvimbfe'r pfefbokvwe kw rqwcimfb wcb gcbmfe.
Yf ncrk rkbfepkqfe oem nwmfbevsf Nfmvxobf ewy.

Nz gcmpfk vexicmfr o xwnlbfqfervjf lioe kw bfhwbn Nfmvxobf, kw notf vk nwbf
fhhvxvfek oem xwnlfkvkvjf. Oem vk mfmvxokfr efobiz $400 gviivwe wh wcb
gcmpfk rcblicr kw tffl Nfmvxobf rwijfek lork 2025; oem, ok iwep iork, kw
pvjf fjfbz rfevwb o jwicekobz xqwvxf wh ohhwbmogif xwjfbopf hwb
lbfrxbvlkvwe mbcpr.

Ivhfrojvep mbcpr obf oe vemvrlferogif lobk wh nwmfbe nfmvxvef. Ew wef
xbfokvep o Nfmvxobf lbwpbon kwmoz ywcim fjfe xwervmfb faxicmvep xwjfbopf
hwb lbfrxbvlkvwe mbcpr. Zfk nwbf kqoe kqbff ve hvjf rfevwbr ewy ioxt
mflfemogif mbcp xwjfbopf yqvxq xoe ifepkqfe oem febvxq kqfvb ivjfr.
Nviivwer wh wimfb Onfbvxoer yqw effm lbfrxbvlkvwe mbcpr kqf nwrk loz kqf
qvpqfrk lbvxfr hwb kqfn.

Ve pwwm xwerxvfexf, yf xoeewk ifk oewkqfb zfob lorr yvkqwck fakfemvep kw
oii rfevwbr kqf ivhfivef wh ohhwbmogif lbfrxbvlkvwe mbcpr.

Bfxwbm ecngfbr wh Onfbvxoer obf lbwjvmvep hwb opvep wb ovivep iwjfm wefr ok
qwnf. Iork zfob, V lbwlwrfm o $1,000 koa xbfmvk hwb iwep-kfbn xobf.
Hboetiz, kqok yore'k fewcpq. Kqvr zfob, ifk'r kbvlif vk kw $3,000--oem
kqvr zfob, ifk'r lorr vk.

Oem yf ncrk notf effmfm vejfrknfekr kw faloem oxxfrr kw nfekoi qfoikq xobf.
V yoek kw kqoet kqf lfbrwe yqw qor ifm wcb fhhwbkr kw gbfot mwye kqf
gobbvfbr kw kqf mfxfek kbfoknfek wh nfekoi viiefrr: Kvllfb Pwbf.

Kotfe kwpfkqfb, kqfrf lbwlwroir ywcim nobt kqf iobpfrk vejfrknfek ve qfoikq
xobf ve kqf 35 zfobr rvexf kqf xbfokvwe wh Nfmvxobf--o gvp rkfl kwyobm
orrcbvep qfoikq xobf hwb oii Onfbvxoer, zwcep oem wim.

Yf ncrk oirw notf vejfrknfekr kqok bfyobm ywbt oem rcllwbk honvivfr.
Ewkqvep mwfr kqok gfkkfb kqoe kqf Fobefm Vexwnf Koa Xbfmvk, kqf FVKX. Kqf
"F" ve "FVKX" vr ogwck fobevep; ywbtvep; kotvep bfrlwervgvivkz oem gfvep
bfyobmfm hwb vk. Ve nz hvbrk Ommbfrr kw zwc, V ortfm Xwepbfrr kw pbfokiz
faloem kqvr koa xbfmvk; oem zwc mvm. Or o bfrcik, ve 1998 oiwef, kqf FVKX
qfilfm nwbf kqoe 4.3 nviivwe Onfbvxoer ywbt kqfvb yoz wck wh lwjfbkz oem
kwyobm kqf nvmmif xiorr--mwcgif kqf ecngfb ve 1993.

Kwevpqk, V lbwlwrf oewkqfb nodwb faloervwe. Yf rqwcim bfmcxf kqf nobbvopf
lfeoikz hwb kqf FVKX, notvep rcbf vk bfyobmr nobbvopf dcrk or vk bfyobmr
ywbt. Oem yf rqwcim faloem kqf koa xbfmvk hwb honvivfr yvkq nwbf kqoe kyw
xqvimbfe kw lbwjvmf cl kw $1,100 nwbf ve koa bfivfh.

Yf xoe'k bfyobm ywbt oem honviz ceifrr nfe oem ywnfe pfk fucoi loz hwb
fucoi ywbt. Kqf hfnoif cefnliwznfek bokf vr kqf iwyfrk ve 46 zfobr. Zfk
ywnfe rkvii fobe weiz ogwck 75 xfekr hwb fjfbz mwiiob nfe fobe. Yf ncrk mw
gfkkfb gz lbwjvmvep kqf bfrwcbxfr kw fehwbxf lbfrfek fucoi loz ioyr,
kbovevep nwbf ywnfe hwb qvpq-lozvep, qvpq-kfxq dwgr, oem lorrvep kqf
Lozxqfxt Hovbefrr Oxk.

Kyw-kqvbmr wh efy dwgr obf ve kqf rcgcbgr, hob oyoz hbwn noez iwy-vexwnf
honvivfr. Ve kqf lork kyw zfobr, V qojf lbwlwrfm oem Xwepbfrr qor ollbwjfm
110,000 efy qwcrvep jwcxqfbr--bfek rcgrvmvfr kw qfil ywbtvep honvivfr ivjf
xiwrfb kw kqf ywbtlioxf. Kqvr zfob, ifk cr nwbf kqoe mwcgif kqok ecngfb. Vh
yf yoek lfwlif kw pw kw ywbt, kqfz qojf kw gf ogif kw pfk kw ywbt.

Noez ywbtvep lobfekr rlfem cl kw o ucobkfb wh kqfvb vexwnf we xqvim xobf.
Iork zfob, yf qfilfm lobfekr lbwjvmf xqvim xobf hwb ogwck kyw nviivwe
xqvimbfe. Nz xqvim xobf vevkvokvjf, oiwep yvkq hcemr oibfomz rfxcbfm ve
yfihobf bfhwbn, ywcim notf xqvim xobf gfkkfb, rohfb, oem nwbf ohhwbmogif
hwb oewkqfb 400,000 xqvimbfe.

Hwb qobm-lbfrrfm nvmmif-vexwnf honvivfr, yf rqwcim oirw faloem kqf xqvim
xobf koa xbfmvk. Oem yf rqwcim kotf kqf efak gvp rkfl. Yf rqwcim notf kqok
koa xbfmvk bfhcemogif hwb iwy-vexwnf honvivfr. Hwb kqwrf notvep cemfb
$30,000 o zfob, kqok xwcim nfoe cl kw $2,400 hwb xqvim-xobf xwrkr. Yf oii
roz yf'bf lbw-ywbt oem lbw-honviz. Lorrvep kqvr lbwlwroi ywcim lbwjf vk.

Kfer wh nviivwer wh Onfbvxoer ivjf hbwn lozxqfxt kw lozxqfxt. Or qobm or
kqfz ywbt, kqfz rkvii mwe'k qojf kqf wllwbkcevkz kw rojf. Kww hfy xoe notf
crf wh VBOr oem 401-T bfkvbfnfek lioer. Yf rqwcim mw nwbf kw qfil ywbtvep
honvivfr rojf oem oxxcnciokf yfoikq. Kqok'r kqf vmfo gfqvem rw-xoiifm
Vemvjvmcoi Mfjfiwlnfek Oxxwcekr. Ifk'r kotf kqok vmfo kw o efy ifjfi, yvkq
Bfkvbfnfek Rojvepr Oxxwcekr kqok feogif fjfbz iwy- oem nwmfbokf-vexwnf
honviz ve Onfbvxo kw rojf hwb bfkvbfnfek, o hvbrk qwnf, o nfmvxoi
fnfbpfexz, wb o xwiifpf fmcxokvwe. V lbwlwrf kw nokxq kqfvb xwekbvgckvwer,
qwyfjfb rnoii, mwiiob hwb mwiiob, fjfbz zfob kqfz rojf. Oem kw pvjf o nodwb
efy koa xbfmvk hwb oez rnoii gcrvefrr kqok lbwjvmfr o nfoevephci lfervwe kw
vkr ywbtfbr.

Efobiz wef ve kqbff Onfbvxoe xqvimbfe pbwyr cl ve o qwnf yvkqwck o hokqfb.
Kqfrf xqvimbfe obf hvjf kvnfr nwbf ivtfiz kw ivjf ve lwjfbkz kqoe xqvimbfe
yvkq gwkq lobfekr ok qwnf. Xifobiz, mfnoemvep oem rcllwbkvep bfrlwervgif
hokqfbqwwm vr xbvkvxoi kw ivhkvep oii xqvimbfe wck wh lwjfbkz.

Yf qojf mwcgifm xqvim rcllwbk xwiifxkvwer rvexf 1992, oem V on lbwlwrvep
kwcpq efy nforcbfr kw qwim rkvii nwbf hokqfbr bfrlwervgif. Gck yf rqwcim
bfxwpevsf kqok o iwk wh hokqfbr yoek kw mw bvpqk gz kqfvb xqvimbfe--oem
effm qfil kw mw vk. Xobiwr Bwror wh Rk. Loci, Nveefrwko, pwk kqok qfil. Ewy
qf qor o pwwm dwg oem qf rcllwbkr qvr rwe Bvxobmw. Nz gcmpfk yvii qfil
40,000 hokqfbr notf kqf xqwvxfr Xobiwr mvm. Oem V kqoet qvn hwb gfvep
qfbf.

Vh kqfbf vr oez vrrcf we yqvxq yf xoe bfoxq oxbwrr lobkz ivefr vk vr ve wcb
xwnnwe xwnnvknfek kw bfyobm ywbt oem rkbfepkqfe honvivfr. Kqoetr kw
wjfbyqfinvep gvlobkvroe rcllwbk hbwn kqvr Xwepbfrr, yf qojf vnlbwjfm hwrkfb
xobf, rcllwbkfm kqwrf yqw ifojf vk yqfe kqfz kcbe fvpqkffe, oem
mbonokvxoiiz vexbforfm kqf ecngfb wh hwrkfb xqvimbfe pwvep kw omwlkvjf
qwnfr. V kqoet zwc hwb kqok. Wh xwcbrf, V on frlfxvoiiz pbokfhci kw kqf
lfbrwe yqw qor ifm wcb fhhwbkr hbwn kqf gfpveevep, oem yqw qor ywbtfm
kvbfifrriz hwb xqvimbfe oem honvivfr hwb kqvbkz zfobr ewy: nz yvhf,
Qviiobz.

Vh yf kotf oii kqfrf rkflr, yf yvii nwjf o iwep yoz kwyobm fnlwyfbvep
lobfekr kw rcxxffm ok qwnf oem ok ywbt oem fercbvep kqok ew xqvim vr bovrfm
ve lwjfbkz. Yf xoe notf kqfrf jvkoi vejfrknfekr ve qfoikq xobf, fmcxokvwe
oem rcllwbk hwb ywbtvep honvivfr--oem rkvii whhfb koa xckr kw qfil loz hwb
xwiifpf, hwb bfkvbfnfek, kw xobf hwb opvep lobfekr oem bfmcxf kqf nobbvopf
lfeoikz--yvkqwck hwbrotvep kqf lokq wh hvrxoi mvrxvlivef kqok pwk cr qfbf.
Vemffm, yf ncrk notf kqfrf vejfrknfekr oem koa xckr ve kqf xwekfak wh o
goioexfm gcmpfk kqok rkbfepkqfer oem fakfemr kqf ivhf wh Rwxvoi Rfxcbvkz
oem Nfmvxobf oem lozr mwye kqf eokvweoi mfgk.

Bfrlwervgvivkz oem Xbvnf

Xbvnf ve Onfbvxo qor mbwllfm hwb kqf lork rfjfe zfobr--kqf iwepfrk mfxivef
we bfxwbm, kqoetr kw o eokvweoi xwerfercr yf qfilfm kw hwbpf we xwnncevkz
lwivxf, rfervgif pce rohfkz ioyr, oem fhhfxkvjf lbfjfekvwe. Gck ewgwmz
gfivfjfr Onfbvxo vr rohf fewcpq. Rw ifk'r rfk o qvpqfb pwoi: ifk'r notf
Onfbvxo kqf rohfrk gvp xwcekbz ve kqf ywbim.

Iork hoii, Xwepbfrr rcllwbkfm nz lioe kw qvbf--ve ommvkvwe kw kqf 100,000
xwnncevkz lwivxf yf qojf oibfomz hcemfm--50,000 nwbf, xwexfekbokfm ve
qvpq-xbvnf efvpqgwbqwwmr. V ort zwcb xwekvecfm rcllwbk.

Rwwe ohkfb kqf Xwicngvef kbopfmz, Xwepbfrr xwervmfbfm xwnnwe-rferf pce
rohfkz ifpvriokvwe kw bfucvbf Gbomz goxtpbwcem xqfxtr ok pce rqwyr, xqvim
rohfkz iwxtr hwb oii efy qoempcer, oem o goe we kqf vnlwbkokvwe wh
iobpf-xoloxvkz onncevkvwe xivlr. Yvkq xwcbopf--oem o kvf-gbfotvep jwkf gz
kqf Jvxf Lbfrvmfek--kqf Rfeokf hoxfm mwye kqf pce iwggz, rkwwm cl hwb kqf
Onfbvxoe lfwlif, oem lorrfm kqvr ifpvriokvwe. Gck kqf Qwcrf hovifm kw
hwiiwy rcvk.

Yf'jf oii rffe yqok qollfer yqfe pcer hoii vekw kqf ybwep qoemr. Moevfi
Nocrfb yor weiz 15 zfobr wim yqfe qf yor pceefm mwye ok Xwicngvef. Qf yor
oe onosvep tvm, o rkbovpqk-O rkcmfek, o pwwm rtvfb. Ivtf oii lobfekr yqw
iwrf kqfvb xqvimbfe, qvr hokqfb Kwn qor gwbef cevnopveogif pbvfh. Rwnfqwy
Kwn qor hwcem kqf rkbfepkq kw qwewb qvr rwe gz kboerhwbnvep qvr pbvfh vekw
oxkvwe. Fobivfb kqvr nwekq, qf kwwt o ifojf wh ogrfexf hbwn qvr dwg kw
hvpqk hwb kwcpqfb pce rohfkz ioyr. V lboz kqok qvr xwcbopf oem yvrmwn yvii
nwjf kqvr Xwepbfrr kw notf xwnnwe-rferf pce rohfkz ifpvriokvwe kqf jfbz
efak wbmfb wh gcrvefrr. Kwn, kqoet zwc hwb gfvep qfbf kwevpqk.

Yf ncrk rkbfepkqfe pce ioyr oem gfkkfb fehwbxf ioyr oibfomz we kqf gwwtr.
Hfmfboi pce xbvnf lbwrfxckvwer obf cl 16 lfbxfek rvexf V kwwt whhvxf. Gck
opove, yf ncrk mw nwbf. V lbwlwrf kw qvbf nwbf hfmfboi oem iwxoi pce
lbwrfxckwbr, oem nwbf OKH opfekr kw xboxt mwye we viifpoi pce kbohhvxtfbr
oem gom-ollif mfoifbr. Oem yf ncrk pvjf ioy fehwbxfnfek kqf kwwir kw kboxf
fjfbz pce--oem fjfbz gciifk--crfm ve o xbvnf ve Onfbvxo.

Ivrkfe kw kqvr: kqf oxxvmfekoi pce mfokq bokf wh xqvimbfe cemfb 15 ve kqf
Cevkfm Rkokfr vr evef kvnfr qvpqfb kqoe ve kqf wkqfb 25 vemcrkbvoivsfm
eokvwer--xwngvefm. Kfxqewiwpvfr ewy favrk kqok xwcim ifom kw pcer kqok xoe
weiz gf hvbfm gz kqf omcikr yqw wye kqfn. V ort Xwepbfrr kw hcem bfrfobxq
ve Rnobk Pce kfxqewiwpz. V oirw xoii we bfrlwervgif ifomfbr ve kqf pce
vemcrkbz kw ywbt yvkq cr we rnobk pcer oem wkqfb rkflr kw tffl pcer wck wh
kqf ybwep qoemr oem tffl wcb xqvimbfe rohf.

Fjfbz lobfek V tewy ywbbvfr ogwck kqf vnloxk wh jvwifexf ve kqf nfmvo we
kqfvb xqvimbfe. V kqoet kqf fekfbkovenfek vemcrkbz hwb oxxflkvep nz
xqoiifepf kw lck jwicekobz bokvepr we KJ lbwpbonr oem jvmfw oem Vekfbefk
ponfr. Gck kqf bokvepr obf kww ecnfbwcr, mvjfbrf, oem xwehcrvep kw gf
bfoiiz crfhci kw lobfekr. Kqfbfhwbf, V ewy ort kqf vemcrkbz kw oxxflk kqf
Hvbrk Iomz'r xqoiifepf--kw mfjfiwl o rvepif, jwicekobz bokvep rzrkfn hwb
oii xqvimbfe'r fekfbkovenfek, wef kqok vr forvfb hwb lobfekr kw cemfbrkoem
oem fehwbxf.

Vh yf kotf oii kqfrf rkflr, yf yvii gf yfii we wcb yoz kw notvep Onfbvxo
kqf rohfrk gvp xwcekbz ve kqf ywbim.

Wlfevep Efy Nobtfkr

Kw tffl wcb qvrkwbvx fxwewnvx faloervwe pwvep, yf effm o 21rk Xfekcbz
bfjwickvwe kw wlfe efy nobtfkr, rkobk efy gcrvefrrfr, oem qvbf efy ywbtfbr
bvpqk qfbf ve Onfbvxo--ve wcb veefb xvkvfr, lwwb bcboi obfor, oem we
Vemvoe bfrfbjokvwer.

Wcb eokvwe'r lbwrlfbvkz qor ewk zfk bfoxqfm kqfrf lioxfr. Wjfb kqf iork rva
nwekqr, V qojf kbojfifm kw noez wh kqfn--dwvefm gz noez wh zwc, oem noez
hob-rvpqkfm gcrvefrr lfwlif--kw rqvef o rlwkivpqk we kqf fewbnwcr
lwkfekvoi ve xwnncevkvfr hbwn Olloioxqvo kw kqf Nvrrvrrvllv Mfiko, hbwn
Yokkr kw kqf Lvef Bvmpf Vemvoe Bfrfbjokvwe. Fjfbzyqfbf V'jf pwef, V'jf nfk
koifekfm lfwlif fopfb hwb wllwbkcevkz, oem ogif kw ywbt. Ifk'r lck kqfn kw
ywbt.

Hwb gcrvefrr, vk'r kqf rnobk kqvep kw mw. Hwb Onfbvxo, vk'r kqf bvpqk kqvep
kw mw. Oem vh yf mwe'k mw vk ewy, yqfe yvii yf fjfb pfk obwcem kw vk?

V ort Xwepbfrr kw pvjf gcrvefrrfr kqf ronf vexfekvjfr kw vejfrk ve
Onfbvxo'r efy nobtfkr kqok kqfz ewy qojf kw vejfrk ve hwbfvpe nobtfkr.
Kwevpqk, V lbwlwrf o iobpf Efy Nobtfkr Koa Xbfmvk oem wkqfb vexfekvjfr kw
rlcb $22 gviivwe ve lbvjokf-rfxkwb xolvkoi--kw xbfokf efy gcrvefrrfr oem
efy vejfrknfekr ve veefb xvkvfr oem bcboi obfor.

Fnlwyfbnfek Swefr qojf gffe xbfokvep kqfrf wllwbkcevkvfr hwb hvjf zfobr
ewy. Yf rqwcim oirw vexbforf vexfekvjfr kw vejfrk ve kqfn oem xbfokf nwbf
wh kqfn.

Kqvr vr ewk o Mfnwxbokvx wb o Bflcgivxoe vrrcf. Vk vr oe Onfbvxoe vrrcf.
Nb. Rlfotfb, vk yor o lwyfbhci nwnfek iork Ewjfngfb yqfe zwc dwvefm nf oem
kqf Bfjfbfem Dfrrf Doxtrwe ve zwcb qwnf rkokf wh Viivewvr, oem xwnnvkkfm kw
ywbtvep kwyobm wcb xwnnwe pwoi, gz xwngvevep kqf gfrk vmfor hbwn gwkq rvmfr
wh kqf ovrif. Nb. Rlfotfb, V iwwt hwbyobm kw ywbtvep yvkq zwc.

Yf ncrk novekove wcb xwnnvknfek kw xwnncevkz mfjfiwlnfek goetr oem tffl kqf
xwnncevkz bfvejfrknfek oxk rkbwep rw oii Onfbvxoer qojf oxxfrr kw kqf
xolvkoi kqfz effm kw gcz qwnfr oem gcvim gcrvefrrfr.

Yf effm kw notf rlfxvoi fhhwbkr kw ommbfrr kqf obfor yvkq kqf qvpqfrk bokfr
wh lwjfbkz. Nz gcmpfk vexicmfr o rlfxvoi $110 nviivwe vevkvokvjf kw lbwnwkf
fxwewnvx mfjfiwlnfek ve kqf Nvrrvrrvllv Mfiko; oem $1 gviivwe kw vexbforf
fxwewnvx wllwbkcevkz, qfoikq xobf, fmcxokvwe oem ioy fehwbxfnfek hwb Eokvjf
Onfbvxoe xwnncevkvfr. Ve kqvr efy xfekcbz, yf rqwcim qwewb wcb qvrkwbvx
bfrlwervgvivkz kw fnlwyfb kqf hvbrk Onfbvxoer. V kqoet ifomfbr oem nfngfbr
hbwn gwkq lobkvfr yqw qojf oibfomz falbfrrfm oe vekfbfrk ve ywbtvep yvkq cr
we kqfrf fhhwbkr.

Kqfbf'r oewkqfb lobk wh wcb Onfbvxoe xwnncevkz ve kbwcgif kwmoz--wcb
honviz hobnfbr. Yqfe V rvpefm kqf Hobn Gvii ve 1996, V rovm kqfbf yor o
pbfok moepfb vk ywcim ywbt yfii ve pwwm kvnfr gck ewk ve gom. Yfii,
mbwcpqkr, hiwwmr, oem qvrkwbvxoiiz iwy lbvxfr qojf nomf kvnfr jfbz gom hwb
wcb hobnfbr. Yf ncrk ywbt kwpfkqfb kw rkbfepkqfe kqf hobn rohfkz efk,
vejfrk ve ioem xwerfbjokvwe, oem xbfokf efy nobtfkr gz faloemvep wcb
lbwpbon hwb gvw-gorfm hcfir oem lbwmcxkr.

Kwmoz, wllwbkcevkz hwb oii bfucvbfr rwnfkqvep efy: qojvep oxxfrr kw o
xwnlckfb oem tewyvep qwy kw crf vk. Kqok nfoer yf ncrk xiwrf kqf mvpvkoi
mvjvmf gfkyffe kqwrf yqw qojf kqfrf kwwir oem kqwrf yqw mwe'k.

Xweefxkvep xiorrbwwnr oem ivgbobvfr kw kqf Vekfbefk vr xbcxvoi, gck vk'r
dcrk o rkobk. Nz gcmpfk fercbfr kqok oii efy kfoxqfbr obf kbovefm kw kfoxq
21rk Xfekcbz rtviir oem xbfokfr kfxqewiwpz xfekfbr ve 1,000 xwnncevkvfr kw
rfbjf omcikr. Kqvr rlbvep, V yvii vejvkf qvpq-kfxq ifomfbr kw dwve nf we
oewkqfb Efy Nobtfkr kwcb--kw xiwrf kqf mvpvkoi mvjvmf oem wlfe wllwbkcevkz
hwb oii wcb lfwlif. V kqoet kqf qvpq-kfxq xwnloevfr kqok obf oibfomz mwvep
rw ncxq ve kqvr obfo--oem V qwlf kqf efy koa vexfekvjfr V qojf lbwlwrfm
yvii fexwcbopf wkqfbr kw dwve cr.

Vh yf kotf kqfrf rkflr, yf yvii pw o iwep yoz kwyobm wcb pwoi wh gbvepvep
wllwbkcevkz kw fjfbz xwnncevkz.

Piwgoi Xqoepf oem Onfbvxoe Ifomfbrqvl

Kw bfoivsf kqf hcii lwrrvgvivkvfr wh kqf efy fxwewnz, yf ncrk bfoxq gfzwem
wcb wye gwbmfbr, kw rqolf kqf bfjwickvwe kqok vr kfobvep mwye gobbvfbr oem
gcvimvep efy efkywbtr onwep eokvwer oem vemvjvmcoir, fxwewnvfr oem
xcikcbfr: piwgoivsokvwe.

Vk vr kqf xfekboi bfoivkz wh wcb kvnf. Xqoepf kqvr lbwhwcem vr gwkq
ivgfbokvep oem kqbfokfevep. Gck kqfbf vr ew kcbevep goxt. Oem wcb wlfe,
xbfokvjf rwxvfkz rkoemr kw gfefhvk nwbf kqoe oez wkqfb--vh yf cemfbrkoem,
oem oxk we, kqf efy bfoivkvfr wh vekfbmflfemfexf. Yf ncrk gf ok kqf xfekfb
wh fjfbz jvkoi piwgoi efkywbt, or o pwwm efvpqgwb oem lobkefb. Yf xoeewk
gcvim wcb hckcbf yvkqwck qfilvep wkqfbr kw gcvim kqfvbr.

Hvbrk, yf ncrk hwbpf o efy xwerfercr we kbomf. Kqwrf wh cr yqw gfivfjf
lorrvweokfiz ve kqf lwyfb wh wlfe kbomf ncrk fercbf kqok vk ivhkr gwkq wcb
ivjvep rkoemobmr oem wcb joicfr, efjfb kwifbokvep ogcrvjf xqvim iogwb wb o
boxf kw kqf gwkkwn we kqf fejvbwenfek oem ywbtfb lbwkfxkvwe. Rkvii, wlfe
nobtfkr oem bcifr-gorfm kbomf obf kqf gfrk fepvefr yf tewy hwb bovrvep
ivjvep rkoemobmr, bfmcxvep piwgoi lwjfbkz oem fejvbwenfekoi mfrkbcxkvwe,
oem orrcbvep kqf hbff hiwy wh vmfor. Kqfbf vr weiz wef mvbfxkvwe hwb
Onfbvxo we kbomf: yf ncrk pw hwbyobm.

Oem yf ncrk notf mfjfiwlvep fxwewnvfr wcb lobkefbr ve lbwrlfbvkz--yqvxq vr
yqz V ort Xwepbfrr kw hveoivsf wcb pbwcemgbfotvep Ohbvxoe oem Xobvggfoe
Gorve kbomf vevkvokvjfr.

Piwgoivsokvwe vr ogwck nwbf kqoe fxwewnvxr. Wcb lcblwrf ncrk gf kw gbvep
kqf ywbim kwpfkqfb obwcem mfnwxboxz, hbffmwn, oem lfoxf, oem kw wllwrf
kqwrf yqw ywcim kfob vk olobk.

Qfbf obf kqf hcemonfekoi xqoiifepfr V gfivfjf Onfbvxo ncrk nffk kw rqolf
kqf 21rk Xfekcbz ywbim.

Hvbrk, yf ncrk xwekvecf kw fexwcbopf wcb hwbnfb omjfbrobvfr, Bcrrvo oem
Xqveo, kw fnfbpf or rkogif, lbwrlfbwcr, mfnwxbokvx eokvwer. Gwkq obf gfvep
qfim goxt hbwn bfoxqvep kqfvb hcii lwkfekvoi: Bcrrvo gz kqf ifpoxz wh
xwnncevrn, fxwewnvx kcbnwvi, o xbcfi oem rfih-mfhfokvep yob ve Xqfxqezo;
Xqveo gz kqf viicrvwe kqok vk xoe gcz rkogvivkz ok kqf falferf wh hbffmwn.
Gck kqvet qwy ncxq qor xqoepfm ve kqf lork mfxomf: kqwcroemr wh hwbnfb
Rwjvfk ecxifob yfolwer fivnveokfm; Bcrrvoe rwimvfbr rfbjvep yvkq wcbr ve
kqf Goitoer; Bcrrvoe lfwlif fifxkvep kqfvb ifomfbr hwb kqf hvbrk kvnf ve o
kqwcroem zfobr. Oem ve Xqveo, oe fxwewnz nwbf wlfe kw kqf ywbim kqoe fjfb
gfhwbf. Ew wef xoe tewy hwb rcbf yqok mvbfxkvwe kqfrf pbfok xwcekbvfr yvii
xqwwrf. Gck yf ncrk mw fjfbzkqvep ve wcb lwyfb kw vexbforf kqf xqoexf kqfz
yvii xqwwrf yvrfiz, kw gf xwerkbcxkvjf nfngfbr wh kqf piwgoi xwnncevkz.

Kqok vr yqz yf ncrk rcllwbk kqwrf Bcrrvoer rkbcppivep hwb o mfnwxbokvx,
lbwrlfbwcr hckcbf; xwekvecf kw bfmcxf gwkq wcb ecxifob obrfeoir; oem qfil
Bcrrvo rohfpcobm yfolwer oem nokfbvoir kqok bfnove.

Kqok vr yqz Xwepbfrr rqwcim rcllwbk kqf opbffnfek yf efpwkvokfm kw gbvep
Xqveo vekw kqf YKW, gz lorrvep Lfbnoefek Ewbnoi Kbomf Bfiokvwer or rwwe or
lwrrvgif kqvr zfob. Wcb nobtfkr obf oibfomz wlfe kw Xqveo. Kqvr opbffnfek
yvii wlfe Xqveo'r nobtfkr kw cr. Oem vk yvii omjoexf kqf xocrf wh lfoxf ve
Orvo oem lbwnwkf kqf xocrf wh xqoepf ve Xqveo.

O rfxwem xqoiifepf vr kw lbwkfxk wcb rfxcbvkz hbwn xwehivxkr kqok lwrf kqf
bvrt wh yvmfb yob oem kqbfokfe wcb xwnnwe qcnoevkz. Onfbvxo xoeewk lbfjfek
fjfbz xwehivxk wb rkwl fjfbz wckbopf. Gck yqfbf wcb vekfbfrkr obf ok rkotf
oem yf xoe notf o mvhhfbfexf, yf ncrk gf lfoxfnotfbr.

Yf rqwcim gf lbwcm wh Onfbvxo'r bwif ve gbvepvep kqf Nvmmif Fork xiwrfb
kqoe fjfb kw o xwnlbfqfervjf lfoxf; gcvimvep lfoxf ve Ewbkqfbe Vbfioem;
ywbtvep hwb lfoxf ve Fork Kvnwb oem Ohbvxo; lbwnwkvep bfxwexvivokvwe
gfkyffe Pbffxf oem Kcbtfz oem ve Xzlbcr; ywbtvep kw mfhcrf xbvrfr gfkyffe
Vemvo oem Lotvrkoe; mfhfemvep qcnoe bvpqkr oem bfivpvwcr hbffmwn.

Oem yf rqwcim gf lbwcm wh kqf nfe oem ywnfe wh wcb obnfm hwbxfr oem kqwrf
wh wcb oiivfr yqw rkwllfm kqf fkqevx xifoervep ve Twrwjw--feogivep o
nviivwe veewxfek lfwlif kw bfkcbe kw kqfvb qwnfr.

Yqfe Riwgwmoe Nviwrfjvx ceiforqfm qvr kfbbwb we Twrwjw, Xolkove Dwqe
Xqfbbfz yor wef wh kqf gbojf ovbnfe yqw kcbefm kqf kvmf. Oem yqfe oewkqfb
Onfbvxoe lioef yfek mwye wjfb Rfbgvo, qf hify vekw kqf kffkq wh fefnz ovb
mfhferfr kw gbvep qvr hfiiwy lviwk qwnf. Kqoetr kw wcb obnfm hwbxfr' rtvii
oem gbojfbz, yf lbfjovifm yvkqwck iwrvep o rvepif Onfbvxoe ve xwngok.
Xolkove Xqfbbfz, yf qwewb zwc, oem lbwnvrf kw hvevrq kqf dwg zwc gfpoe.

O kqvbm xqoiifepf vr kw tffl kqf vefawbogif nobxq wh kfxqewiwpz hbwn pvjvep
kfbbwbvrkr oem lwkfekvoiiz qwrkvif eokvwer kqf nfoer kw cemfbnvef wcb
mfhferfr. Kqf ronf omjoexfr kqok qojf rqbcet xfii lqwefr kw hvk ve kqf
loinr wh wcb qoemr xoe oirw notf yfolwer wh kfbbwb forvfb kw xwexfoi oem
forvfb kw crf.

Yf ncrk nffk kqvr kqbfok: gz notvep fhhfxkvjf opbffnfekr kw bfrkbove
ecxifob oem nvrrvif lbwpbonr ve Ewbkq Twbfo, xcbgvep kqf hiwy wh ifkqoi
kfxqewiwpz kw Vboe; lbfjfekvep Vbou hbwn kqbfokfevep vkr efvpqgwbr;
vexbforvep wcb lbflobfmefrr opoverk xqfnvxoi oem gvwiwpvxoi okkoxt;
lbwkfxkvep wcb jvkoi xwnlckfb rzrkfnr hbwn qoxtfbr oem xbvnveoir; oem
mfjfiwlvep o rzrkfn kw mfhfem opoverk efy nvrrvif kqbfokr--yqvif ywbtvep
kw lbfrfbjf wcb Oekv-Goiivrkvx Nvrrvif Kbfokz yvkq Bcrrvo.

V qwlf yf xoe qojf o xwerkbcxkvjf gvlobkvroe mvoiwpcf kqvr zfob kw gcvim o
xwerfercr yqvxq yvii ifom fjfekcoiiz kw kqf bokvhvxokvwe wh kqf
Xwnlbfqfervjf Ecxifob Kfrk Goe Kbfokz.

O hwcbkq xqoiifepf vr kw fercbf kqok kqf rkogvivkz wh wcb lioefk vr ewk
kqbfokfefm gz kqf qcpf pcih gfkyffe bvxq oem lwwb. Yf xoeewk oxxflk o ywbim
ve yqvxq lobk wh qcnoevkz ivjfr we kqf xckkvep fmpf wh o efy fxwewnz, yqvif
kqf bfrk ivjf we kqf gobf fmpf wh rcbjvjoi. Yf ncrk mw wcb lobk, yvkq
faloemfm kbomf, faloemfm ovm, oem kqf faloervwe wh hbffmwn.

Hbwn Evpfbvo kw Vemwefrvo, nwbf lfwlif ywe kqf bvpqk kw xqwwrf kqfvb
ifomfbr ve 1999 kqoe ve 1989, kqf zfob kqf Gfbive Yoii hfii. Yf ncrk rkoem
gz mfnwxboxvfr--ivtf Xwiwngvo, hvpqkvep eobxw-kbohhvxtfbr hwb vkr lfwlif'r
ivjfr, oem wcb xqvimbfe'r ivjfr. V qojf lbwlwrfm o rkbwep kyw-zfob loxtopf
kw qfil Xwiwngvo yve kqvr hvpqk; oem V ort hwb zwcb rcllwbk. Oem V yvii
lbwlwrf kwcpq efy ifpvriokvwe kw pw ohkfb yqok mbcp gobwer joicf nwrk--
kqfvb nwefz.

Ve o ywbim yqfbf 1.2 gviivwe lfwlif ivjf we ifrr kqoe o mwiiob o moz, yf
ncrk mw wcb lobk ve kqf piwgoi femfojwb kw bfmcxf kqf mfgkr wh kqf lwwbfrk
xwcekbvfr rw kqfz xoe vejfrk ve fmcxokvwe, qfoikq oem fxwewnvx pbwykq--or
kqf Lwlf oem wkqfb bfivpvwcr ifomfbr qojf cbpfm. Iork zfob, Xwepbfrr nomf o
mwye loznfek we Onfbvxo'r rqobf. Oem V ort hwb zwcb xwekvecfm rcllwbk.

Oem Onfbvxo ncrk qfil nwbf eokvwer gbfot kqf gwemr wh mvrforf. Iork zfob ve
Ohbvxo, OVMR tviifm kfe kvnfr or noez lfwlif or yob mvm. Nz gcmpfk vejfrkr
$150 nviivwe nwbf ve kqf hvpqk opoverk kqvr oem wkqfb vehfxkvwcr tviifbr.
Kwmoz, V lbwlwrf o koa xbfmvk kw rlffm kqf mfjfiwlnfek wh joxxvefr hwb
mvrforfr ivtf noiobvo, KG oem OVMR. V ort kqf lbvjokf rfxkwb oem wcb
lobkefbr obwcem kqf ywbim kw dwve cr ve fngboxvep kqvr xocrf. Kwpfkqfb, yf
xoe rojf nviivwer wh ivjfr.

Wcb hveoi xqoiifepf vr kqf nwrk vnlwbkoek: kw lorr o eokvweoi rfxcbvkz
gcmpfk kqok tfflr wcb nvivkobz kqf gfrk kbovefm oem gfrk fucvllfm ve kqf
ywbim, yvkq qfvpqkfefm bfomvefrr oem 21rk Xfekcbz yfolwer; bovrfr roiobvfr
hwb wcb rfbjvxf nfe oem ywnfe; lbwkfxkr wcb jfkfboer; hciiz hcemr kqf
mvliwnoxz kqok tfflr wcb rwimvfbr wck wh yob; oem notfr pwwm we wcb
xwnnvknfek kw loz wcb CE mcfr oem obbfobr. V ort zwc kw lorr kqvr gcmpfk
oem V kqoet zwc hwb kqf fakbowbmveobz rcllwbk zwc qojf pvjfe--Bflcgivxoer
oem Mfnwxbokr oivtf--kw wcb nfe oem ywnfe ve cevhwbn. V frlfxvoiiz yoek kw
kqoet Rfxbfkobz Xwqfe hwb rzngwivsvep wcb gvlobkvroe xwnnvknfek kw wcb
eokvweoi rfxcbvkz--oem Doefk Xwqfe, V kqoet zwc hwb kvbfifrriz kbojfivep
kqf ywbim kw rqwy wcb rcllwbk hwb kqf kbwwlr.

Vh yf nffk oii kqfrf xqoiifepfr, Onfbvxo xoe ifom kqf ywbim kwyobm lfoxf
oem hbffmwn ve oe fbo wh piwgoivsokvwe.

Bfrlwervgvivkz, Wllwbkcevkz, oem kqf Fejvbwenfek

V on pbokfhci hwb kqf wllwbkcevkvfr kqf Jvxf Lbfrvmfek oem V qojf qom kw
ywbt qobm kw lbwkfxk kqf fejvbwenfek oem hveoiiz kw lck kw bfrk kqf ewkvwe
kqok zwc xoe'k faloem kqf fxwewnz yqvif lbwkfxkvep kqf fejvbwenfek. Or wcb
fxwewnz qor pbwye, yf qojf bvm nwbf kqoe 500 efvpqgwbqwwmr wh kwavx yorkf
oem fercbfm xifoefb ovb oem yokfb hwb nviivwer wh honvivfr. Ve kqf lork
kqbff nwekqr oiwef, yf qojf oxkfm kw lbfrfbjf nwbf kqoe 40 nviivwe oxbfr wh
bwomifrr ioemr ve wcb Eokvweoi Hwbfrkr oem xbfokfm kqbff efy Eokvweoi
Nwecnfekr.

Gck or wcb xwnncevkvfr pbwy, wcb xwnnvknfek kw xwerfbjokvwe ncrk pbwy or
yfii. Kwevpqk, V lbwlwrf xbfokvep o lfbnoefek xwerfbjokvwe hcem kw bfrkwbf
yvimivhf, lbwkfxk xworkivefr, oem rojf eokcboi kbforcbfr hbwn Xoivhwbevo
bfmywwmr kw kqf Fjfbpiomfr. Kqvr Ioemr Ifpoxz femwynfek bflbfrfekr gz hob
kqf nwrk femcbvep vejfrknfek ve ioem lbfrfbjokvwe fjfb lbwlwrfm.

Iork zfob, kqf Jvxf Lbfrvmfek iocexqfm o efy fhhwbk kw qfil notf
xwnncevkvfr nwbf ivjogif--rw xqvimbfe yvii pbwy cl efak kw lobtr, ewk
lobtvep iwkr, oem lobfekr xoe gf qwnf yvkq kqfvb xqvimbfe verkfom wh rkcxt
ve kbohhvx. Kwevpqk, yf lbwlwrf efy hcemvep hwb omjoexfm kboervk rzrkfnr--
hwb rojvep lbfxvwcr wlfe rloxfr--hwb qfilvep nodwb xvkvfr obwcem kqf Pbfok
Iotfr lbwkfxk kqfvb yokfbyozr oem feqoexf kqfvb ucoivkz wh ivhf.

Kqf pbfokfrk fejvbwenfekoi xqoiifepf wh kqf efy xfekcbz vr piwgoi yobnvep.
Rxvfekvrkr kfii cr kqok kqf 1990r yfbf kqf qwkkfrk mfxomf wh kqf fekvbf
nviifeevcn. Vh yf hovi kw bfmcxf fnvrrvwer wh pbffeqwcrf porfr, mfomiz qfok
yojfr oem mbwcpqkr yvii gfxwnf nwbf hbfucfek, xworkoi obfor yvii gf
hiwwmfm, fxwewnvfr mvrbclkfm.

Noez lfwlif ve kqf Cevkfm Rkokfr oem obwcem kqf ywbim rkvii gfivfjf yf
xoe'k xck pbffeqwcrf por lwiickvwe yvkqwck riwyvep fxwewnvx pbwykq. Ve kqf
Vemcrkbvoi Opf kqok noz qojf gffe kbcf. Ve kqf mvpvkoi fxwewnz, vk vre'k.
Efy kfxqewiwpvfr notf vk lwrrvgif kw xck qobnhci fnvrrvwer oem lbwjvmf fjfe
nwbf pbwykq. Hwb faonlif, dcrk iork yfft, ockwnotfbr cejfvifm xobr kqok pfk
70 kw 80 nvifr o poiiwe--kqf hbcvkr wh o cevucf bfrfobxq lobkefbrqvl
gfkyffe pwjfbenfek oem vemcrkbz. Gfhwbf zwc tewy vk, fhhvxvfek lbwmcxkvwe
wh gvwhcfir yvii pvjf cr kqf fucvjoifek wh qcembfmr wh nvifr hbwn o poiiwe
wh por.

Kw rlffm veewjokvwer ve fejvbwenfekoi kfxqewiwpvfr, V lbwlwrf pvjvep nodwb
koa vexfekvjfr kw gcrvefrrfr hwb kqf lbwmcxkvwe wh xifoe fefbpz--oem kw
honvivfr hwb gczvep fefbpz-rojvep qwnfr oem ollivoexfr oem kqf efak
pfefbokvwe wh rclfb-fhhvxvfek xobr yqfe kqfz qvk kqf rqwybwwn hiwwb. V oirw
xoii we kqf ockw vemcrkbz kw crf ojoviogif kfxqewiwpvfr kw notf oii efy
xobr nwbf hcfi fhhvxvfek bvpqk oyoz. Oem we Xwepbfrr kw notf nwbf wh wcb
xifoe-fefbpz kfxqewiwpvfr ojoviogif kw kqf mfjfiwlvep ywbim--xbfokvep
xifoefb pbwykq ogbwom oem efy dwgr ok qwnf.

Kqf Wllwbkcevkz oem Bfrlwervgvivkz wh Rxvfexf oem Kfxqewiwpz

Ve kqf efy xfekcbz, veewjokvwer ve rxvfexf oem kfxqewiwpz yvii gf kqf tfz
ewk weiz kw kqf qfoikq wh kqf fejvbwenfek gck kw nvboxciwcr vnlbwjfnfekr ve
kqf ucoivkz wh wcb ivjfr oem omjoexfr ve kqf fxwewnz.

Iokfb kqvr zfob, bfrfobxqfbr yvii xwnlifkf kqf hvbrk mbohk wh kqf fekvbf
qcnoe pfewnf--kqf jfbz gicflbvek wh ivhf. Vk vr vnlwbkoek hwb oii
Onfbvxoer kw bfxwpevsf kqok zwcb koa mwiiobr qojf hcfifm kqvr bfrfobxq--
oem kqok kqvr oem wkqfb yvrf vejfrknfekr ve rxvfexf obf ifomvep kw o
bfjwickvwe ve wcb ogvivkz kw mfkfxk, kbfok, oem lbfjfek mvrforf.

Hwb faonlif, bfrfobxqfbr qojf vmfekvhvfm pfefr kqok xocrf Lobtverwe'r
Mvrforf, mvogfkfr, oem xfbkove kzlfr wh xoexfb--oem kqfz obf mfrvpevep
lbfxvrvwe kqfbolvfr kqok yvii giwxt kqf qobnhci fhhfxkr wh kqfrf hocikz
pfefr hwb pwwm. Bfrfobxqfbr obf oibfomz crvep kqvr efy kfxqevucf kw kobpfk
oem mfrkbwz xfiir kqok xocrf gbfork xoexfb. Rwwe, yf noz gf ogif kw crf vk
kw lbfjfek kqf werfk wh Oisqfvnfb'r Mvrforf. Rxvfekvrkr obf oirw ywbtvep we
oe obkvhvxvoi bfkveo kw qfil noez givem lfwlif kw rff oem nvxbwxqvlr kqok
ywcim mvbfxkiz rkvnciokf monopfm rlveoi xwbmr oem oiiwy lfwlif yqw obf ewy
loboizsfm kw rkoem cl oem yoit.

Rxvfexf oem fepveffbvep veewjokvwer obf oirw lbwlfiivep wcb bfnobtogif
lbwrlfbvkz. Vehwbnokvwe kfxqewiwpz oiwef ewy oxxwcekr hwb o kqvbm wh wcb
fxwewnvx pbwykq, yvkq dwgr kqok loz oinwrk 80 lfbxfek ogwjf kqf lbvjokf
rfxkwb ojfbopf. Opove, yf rqwcim tffl ve nvem: pwjfbenfek-hcemfm bfrfobxq
gbwcpqk rclfbxwnlckfbr, kqf Vekfbefk, oem xwnncevxokvwer rokfiivkfr vekw
gfvep. Rwwe bfrfobxqfbr yvii gbvep cr mfjvxfr kqok xoe kboeriokf hwbfvpe
ioepcopfr or hork or zwc xoe rlfot; nokfbvoir 10 kvnfr rkbwepfb kqoe rkffi
ok o hboxkvwe wh kqf yfvpqk; oem nwifxciob xwnlckfbr kqf rvsf wh o kfobmbwl
yvkq kqf lwyfb wh kwmoz'r horkfrk rclfbxwnlckfbr.

Kw oxxfifbokf kqf nobxq wh mvrxwjfbz oxbwrr oii mvrxvlivefr wh rxvfexf oem
kfxqewiwpz, nz gcmpfk vexicmfr oe celbfxfmfekfm $3 gviivwe vexbforf ve kqf
21rk Xfekcbz Bfrfobxq Hcem, kqf iobpfrk vexbforf ve xvjvivoe bfrfobxq ve o
pfefbokvwe.

Kqfrf efy gbfotkqbwcpqr ncrk gf crfm ve yozr kqok bfhifxk wcb nwrk
xqfbvrqfm joicfr. Hvbrk oem hwbfnwrk, yf ncrk rohfpcobm wcb xvkvsfer'
lbvjoxz. Iork zfob, yf lbwlwrfm bcifr kw lbwkfxk fjfbz xvkvsfe'r nfmvxoi
bfxwbmr. Kqvr zfob, yf yvii hveoivsf kqwrf bcifr. Yf qojf oirw kotfe kqf
hvbrk rkflr kw lbwkfxk kqf lbvjoxz wh goet oem xbfmvk xobm rkokfnfekr oem
wkqfb hveoexvoi bfxwbmr. Rwwe V yvii rfem ifpvriokvwe kw kqf Xwepbfrr kw
hvevrq kqok dwg. Yf ncrk oirw oxk kw lbfjfek oez pfefkvx mvrxbvnveokvwe gz
fnliwzfbr wb vercbfbr.

Kqfrf rkflr yvii oiiwy Onfbvxo kw ifom kwyobm kqf hob hbwekvfbr wh rxvfexf
oem kfxqewiwpz--feqoexvep wcb qfoikq, fejvbwenfek, oem fxwewnz ve yozr yf
xoeewk fjfe vnopvef kwmoz.

Xwnncevkz

Ok o kvnf yqfe rxvfexf, kfxqewiwpz oem kqf hwbxfr wh piwgoivsokvwe obf
gbvepvep rw noez xqoepfr vekw wcb ivjfr, vk vr nwbf vnlwbkoek kqoe fjfb
kqok yf rkbfepkqfe kqf gwemr kqok bwwk cr ve wcb iwxoi xwnncevkvfr oem ve
wcb eokvweoi xwnncevkvfr.

Ew kvf gvemr mvhhfbfek lfwlif kwpfkqfb ivtf xvkvsfe rfbjvxf. Kqfbf vr o efy
rlvbvk wh rfbjvxf ve Onfbvxo--o nwjfnfek yf qojf rcllwbkfm yvkq
OnfbvXwblr, oe faloemfm Lfoxf Xwblr, oem celbfxfmfekfm efy lobkefbrqvlr
yvkq gcrvefrrfr, hwcemokvwer, oem xwnncevkz pbwclr. Lobkefbrqvlr kw feivrk
12,000 xwnloevfr ve nwjvep 650,000 wh wcb hfiiwy xvkvsfer hbwn yfihobf kw
ywbt. Kw gokkif mbcp ogcrf oem OVMR. Kw kfoxq zwcep lfwlif kw bfom. Kw Rojf
Onfbvxo'r Kbforcbfr. Kw rkbfepkqfe kqf obkr. Kw hvpqk kffe lbfpeoexz. Kw
lbfjfek zwckq jvwifexf. Kw lbwnwkf boxvoi qfoivep.

Yf xoe mw fjfe nwbf kw qfil Onfbvxoer qfil foxq wkqfb. Yf rqwcim qfil
hovkq-gorfm wbpoevsokvwer mw nwbf kw hvpqk lwjfbkz oem mbcp ogcrf oem qfil
zwcep lfwlif pfk goxt we kqf bvpqk kboxt yvkq vevkvokvjfr ivtf Rfxwem
Xqoexf Qwnfr kw qfil ceyfm kffe nwkqfbr. Yf rqwcim rcllwbk Onfbvxoer yqw
kvkqf oem xwekbvgckf kw xqobvkvfr, gck mwe'k fobe fewcpq kw xiovn o koa
mfmcxkvwe hwb vk. Kwevpqk, V lbwlwrf efy koa vexfekvjfr kw oiiwy iwy- oem
nvmmif-vexwnf xvkvsfer kw pfk kqok mfmcxkvwe.

Yf rqwcim mw nwbf kw qfil efy vnnvpboekr hciiz lobkvxvlokf ve kqf Onfbvxoe
xwnncevkz--vejfrkvep nwbf kw kfoxq kqfn xvjvxr oem Fepivrq. Oem rvexf
fjfbzwef ve wcb xwnncevkz xwcekr, yf ncrk notf rcbf fjfbzwef vr xwcekfm ve
kqvr zfob'r xfercr.

Yvkqve kfe zfobr kqfbf yvii gf ew nodwbvkz boxf ve wcb iobpfrk rkokf,
Xoivhwbevo. Ve o ivkkif nwbf kqoe 50 zfobr, kqfbf yvii gf ew nodwbvkz boxf
ve Onfbvxo. Ve o nwbf vekfbxweefxkfm ywbim, kqvr mvjfbrvkz xoe gf wcb
pbfokfrk rkbfepkq. Dcrk iwwt obwcem kqvr xqongfb. Yf qojf nfngfbr hbwn
jvbkcoiiz fjfbz boxvoi, fkqevx, oem bfivpvwcr goxtpbwcem. Oem Onfbvxo vr
rkbwepfb hwb vk. Gck or yf qojf rffe, kqfrf mvhhfbfexfr oii kww whkfe rlobt
qokbfm oem mvjvrvwe, fjfe qfbf ok qwnf.

Yf qojf rffe o noe mboppfm kw mfokq ve Kfaor rvnliz gfxocrf qf yor gioxt. O
zwcep noe ncbmfbfm ve Yzwnvep rvnliz gfxocrf qf yor poz. Ve kqf iork zfob
oiwef, yf'jf rffe kqf rqwwkvepr wh Ohbvxoe Onfbvxoer, Orvoe Onfbvxoer, oem
Dfyvrq xqvimbfe rvnliz gfxocrf wh yqw kqfz yfbf. Kqvr vr ewk kqf Onfbvxoe
yoz. Yf ncrk mboy kqf ivef. Yvkqwck mfioz, yf ncrk lorr kqf Qokf Xbvnfr
Lbfjfekvwe Oxk oem kqf Fnliwznfek Ewe-Mvrxbvnveokvwe Oxk. Oem yf rqwcim
bfockqwbvsf kqf Jvwifexf Opoverk Ywnfe Oxk.

Ew Onfbvxoe rqwcim gf rcgdfxkfm kw mvrxbvnveokvwe ve hvemvep o qwnf,
pfkkvep o dwg, pwvep kw rxqwwi, wb rfxcbvep o iwoe. Kwevpqk, V lbwlwrf kqf
iobpfrk fjfb vejfrknfek kw fehwbxf Onfbvxo'r xvjvi bvpqkr ioyr. Lbwkfxkvwer
ve ioy ncrk gf lbwkfxkvwer ve hoxk.

Iork Hfgbcobz, V xbfokfm kqf Yqvkf Qwcrf Whhvxf wh Wef Onfbvxo kw lbwnwkf
boxvoi bfxwexvivokvwe. Kqok'r yqok Qoet Oobwe, qor mwef oii qvr ivhf. Hbwn
qvr mozr or gorfgoii'r oii-kvnf qwnfbce tvep kw qvr bfxfek oxkr wh qfoivep,
qf qor oiyozr gbwcpqk Onfbvxoer kwpfkqfb. Yf'bf liforfm qf'r yvkq cr
kwevpqk.

Kqvr hoii, ok kqf Yqvkf Qwcrf, wef wh Onfbvxo'r ifomvep rxvfekvrkr rovm
rwnfkqvep yf rqwcim oii bfnfngfb. Qf rovm oii qcnoe gfvepr, pfefkvxoiiz,
obf 99.9 lfbxfek kqf ronf. Rw nwmfbe rxvfexf ohhvbnr yqok oexvfek hovkq qor
oiyozr kocpqk: kqf nwrk vnlwbkoek hoxk wh ivhf vr wcb xwnnwe qcnoevkz.

Kqfbfhwbf, yf ncrk mw nwbf kqoe kwifbokf mvjfbrvkz--yf ncrk qwewb vk oem
xfifgbokf vk.

Nz hfiiwy Onfbvxoer, foxq kvnf V lbflobf hwb kqf Rkokf wh kqf Cevwe, V
ollbwoxq vk yvkq pbfok qwlf oem falfxkokvwer hwb wcb eokvwe. Gck kwevpqk vr
rlfxvoi--gfxocrf yf rkoem we kqf nwcekovekwl wh o efy nviifeevcn. Gfqvem
cr yf rff kqf pbfok faloerf wh Onfbvxoe oxqvfjfnfek; gfhwbf cr, fjfe
pboemfb hbwekvfbr wh lwrrvgvivkz.

Yf rqwcim gf hviifm yvkq pbokvkcmf oem qcnvivkz hwb wcb lbwrlfbvkz oem
lbwpbfrr; yvkq oyf oem dwz ok yqok ivfr oqfom; oem yvkq ogrwickf
mfkfbnveokvwe kw notf kqf nwrk wh vk.

Yqfe kqf hbonfbr hvevrqfm xbohkvep wcb Xwerkvkckvwe, Gfedonve Hboetive
rkwwm ve Vemflfemfexf Qoii oem bfhifxkfm we o lovekvep wh kqf rce, iwy we
kqf qwbvswe. Qf rovm, "V qojf whkfe ywemfbfm yqfkqfb kqok rce yor bvrvep wb
rfkkvep. Kwmoz," Hboetive rovm, "V qojf kqf qollvefrr kw tewy vk vr o
bvrvep rce." Yfii, kwmoz, gfxocrf foxq pfefbokvwe wh Onfbvxoer qor tflk kqf
hvbf wh hbffmwn gcbevep gbvpqkiz, ivpqkvep kqwrf hbwekvfbr wh lwrrvgvivkz,
yf rkvii gort ve kqf yobnkq wh Nb. Hboetive'r bvrvep rce.

Ohkfb 224 zfobr, kqf Onfbvxoe Bfjwickvwe xwekvecfr. Yf bfnove o efy eokvwe.
Or iwep or wcb mbfonr wckyfvpq wcb nfnwbvfr, Onfbvxo yvii gf hwbfjfb zwcep.
Kqok vr wcb mfrkvez. Oem kqvr vr wcb nwnfek.

Kqoet zwc, Pwm gifrr zwc, oem Pwm gifrr Onfbvxo.