Gy gnw Eymqhwbb yf gnw Kmdgwu Bgjgwb:

My Eymqhwbb yf gnw Kmdgwu Bgjgwb wiwh jbbwoxvwu, ym bkhiwcdmq gnw bgjgw yf
gnw Kmdym, njb owg zdgn j oyhw avwjbdmq ahybaweg gnjm gnjg znden jaawjhb jg
gnw ahwbwmg gdow. Dm gnw uyowbgde fdwvu gnwhw db ghjmskdvdgc jmu
eymgwmgowmg, njhoymdykb hwvjgdymb xwgzwwm ojmjqwowmg jmu zjqw wjhmwh,
fhwwuyo fhyo dmukbghdjv bghdfw, jmu gnw ndqnwbg hweyhu yf cwjhb yf
ahybawhdgc. Dm gnw fyhwdqm fdwvu gnwhw db awjew, gnw qyyu zdvv znden eyowb
fhyo okgkjv kmuwhbgjmudmq, jmu gnw lmyzvwuqw gnjg gnw ahyxvwob znden j
bnyhg gdow jqy jaawjhwu by yodmykb jhw cdwvudmq gy gnw gyken yf ojmdfwbg
fhdwmubnda. Gnw qhwjg zwjvgn ehwjgwu xc ykh wmgwhahdbw jmu dmukbghc, jmu
bjiwu xc ykh weymyoc, njb nju gnw zduwbg udbghdxkgdym joymq ykh yzm awyavw,
jmu njb qymw ykg dm j bgwjuc bghwjo gy bwhiw gnw enjhdgc jmu gnw xkbdmwbb
yf gnw zyhvu. Gnw hwskdhwowmgb yf wpdbgwmew njiw ajbbwu xwcymu gnw bgjmujhu
yf mwewbbdgc dmgy gnw hwqdym yf vkpkhc. Wmvjhqdmq ahyukegdym db eymbkowu xc
jm dmehwjbdmq uwojmu jg nyow jmu jm wpajmudmq eyoowhew jxhyju. Gnw eykmghc
ejm hwqjhu gnw ahwbwmg zdgn bjgdbfjegdym jmu jmgdedajgw gnw fkgkhw zdgn
yagdodbo.

Gnw ojdm bykhew yf gnwbw kmwpjoavwu xvwbbdmqb vdwb dm gnw dmgwqhdgc jmu
enjhjegwh yf gnw Jowhdejm awyavw. Gnwc njiw nju qhwjg fjdgn, znden gnwc
njiw bkaavwowmgwu zdgn odqngc zyhlb. Gnwc njiw xwwm jxvw gy akg ghkbg dm
wjen ygnwh jmu ghkbg dm gnwdh Qyiwhmowmg. Gnwdh ejmuyh dm uwjvdmq zdgn
fyhwdqm qyiwhmowmgb njb eyoojmuwu hwbaweg jmu eymfduwmew. Cwg gnwbw
hwojhljxvw ayzwhb zykvu njiw xwwm wpwhgwu jvoybg dm ijdm zdgnykg gnw
eymbgjmg eyyawhjgdym jmu ejhwfkv juodmdbghjgdym yf gnw Fwuwhjv Qyiwhmowmg.

Zw njiw xwwm eyodmq dmgy j awhdyu znden ojc xw fjdhvc enjhjegwhdtwu jb j
eymbwhijgdym yf ykh mjgdymjv hwbykhewb. Zjbgwfkvmwbb dm akxvde xkbdmwbb jmu
ahdijgw wmgwhahdbw njb xwwm udbavjewu xc eymbghkegdiw weymyoc. Gndb njb
xwwm jeeyoavdbnwu xc xhdmqdmq ykh uyowbgde jmu fyhwdqm hwvjgdymb oyhw jmu
oyhw kmuwh j hwdqm yf vjz. J hkvw yf fyhew njb xwwm qdidmq zjc gy j hkvw yf
hwjbym. Zw njiw bkxbgdgkgwu fyh gnw idedykb edhevw yf dmehwjbdmq
wpawmudgkhwb, dmehwjbdmq gjp hjgwb, jmu udodmdbndmq ahyfdgb gnw enjhowu
edhevw yf udodmdbndmq wpawmudgkhwb, udodmdbndmq gjp hjgwb, jmu dmehwjbdmq
ahyfdgb.

Fykh gdowb zw njiw ojuw j uhjbgde hwidbdym yf ykh dmgwhmjv hwiwmkw bcbgwo,
jxyvdbndmq ojmc gjpwb jmu bkxbgjmgdjvvc hwukedmq jvoybg jvv ygnwhb. Wjen
gdow gnw hwbkvgdmq bgdokvjgdym gy xkbdmwbb njb by dmehwjbwu gjpjxvw dmeyowb
jmu ahyfdgb gnjg j bkhavkb njb xwwm hwukewu. Ymw-gndhu yf gnw mjgdymjv
uwxg njb xwwm ajdu, zndvw oken yf gnw ygnwh gzy-gndhub njb xwwm hwfkmuwu jg
vyzwh hjgwb, jmu gnwbw bjidmqb yf dmgwhwbg jmu eymbgjmg weymyodwb njiw
wmjxvwu kb gy hwawjg gnw bjgdbfcdmq ahyewbb yf oyhw gjp hwukegdymb. Kmuwh
gndb bykmu jmu nwjvgnfkv wmeykhjqwowmg gnw mjgdymjv dmeyow njb dmehwjbwu
mwjhvc 50 awh ewmg, kmgdv dg db wbgdojgwu gy bgjmu zwvv yiwh
$90,000,000,000. Dg qjb xwwm j owgnyu znden njb awhfyhowu gnw bwwodmq
odhjevw yf vwjidmq j oken qhwjgwh awhewmgjqw yf wjhmdmqb dm gnw njmub yf
gnw gjpajcwhb zdgn bejhewvc jmc udodmkgdym yf gnw Qyiwhmowmg hwiwmkw. Gnjg
db eymbghkegdiw weymyoc dm gnw ndqnwbg uwqhww. Dg db gnw eyhmwh bgymw yf
ahybawhdgc. Dg bnykvu myg fjdv gy xw eymgdmkwu.

Gndb jegdym xwqjm xc gnw jaavdejgdym yf weymyoc gy akxvde wpawmudgkhw. Df
dg db gy xw awhojmwmg, dg okbg xw ojuw by xc gnw hwawjgwu jaavdejgdym yf
weymyoc. Gnwhw db my bkhavkb ym znden gy xjbw fkhgnwh gjp hwidbdym jg gndb
gdow. Vjbg Rkmw gnw wbgdojgwb bnyzwu j gnhwjgwmwu uwfdedg fyh gnw ekhhwmg
fdbejv cwjh yf $94,000,000. Kmuwh oc udhwegdym gnw uwajhgowmgb xwqjm bjidmq
jvv gnwc eykvu ykg yf gnwdh ahwbwmg jaahyahdjgdymb. Gnw vjbg gjp hwukegdym
xhykqng jm wmeykhjqdmq doahyiwowmg dm xkbdmwbb, xwqdmmdmq wjhvc dm
Yegyxwh, znden zdvv jvby dmehwjbw ykh hwiwmkw. Gnw eyoxdmjgdym yf weymyoc
jmu qyyu gdowb myz dmudejgwb j bkhavkb yf jxykg $37,000,000. Gndb db j
ojhqdm yf vwbb gnjm D awhewmg ym ykg, wpawmudgkhwb jmu ojlwb dg yxidykb
gnjg gnw Ghwjbkhc db dm my eymudgdym gy kmuwhgjlw dmehwjbwb dm wpawmudgkhwb
gy xw ojuw xwfyhw Rkmw 30. Dg db mwewbbjhc gnwhwfyhw ukhdmq gnw ahwbwmg
bwbbdym gy hwfhjdm fhyo mwz jaahyahdjgdymb fyh doowudjgw ykgvjc, yh df bken
jhw jxbyvkgwvc hwskdhwu gy ahyiduw fyh gnwo xc mwz hwiwmkw; ygnwhzdbw, zw
bnjvv hwjen gnw wmu yf gnw cwjh zdgn gnw kmgndmljxvw hwbkvg yf jm kmxjvjmewu
xkuqwg. Fyh gnw fdhbg gdow ukhdmq oc gwho yf yffdew zw fjew gnjg
eymgdmqwmec. D jo ewhgjdm gnjg gnw Eymqhwbb zykvu myg ajbb jmu D bnykvu myg
fwwv zjhhjmgwu dm jaahyidmq vwqdbvjgdym znden zykvu dmiyviw kb dm gnjg
fdmjmedjv udbqhjew.

Ym gnw znyvw gnw fdmjmewb yf gnw Qyiwhmowmg jhw oybg bjgdbfjegyhc. Vjbg
cwjh gnw mjgdymjv uwxg zjb hwukewu jxykg $906,000,000. Gnw hwfkmudmq jmu
hwgdhwowmg yf gnw bweymu jmu gndhu Vdxwhgc vyjmb njiw rkbg xwwm xhykqng gy
j bkeewbbfkv eymevkbdym, znden zdvv bjiw jxykg $75,000,000 j cwjh dm
dmgwhwbg. Gnw kmajdu xjvjmew njb xwwm jhhjmqwu dm ojgkhdgdwb eymiwmdwmg
fyh ejhhcdmq ykg ykh awhojmwmg uwxg-ajcdmq Ahyqhjo.

Gnw wmyhoykb bjidmqb ojuw njiw myg xwwm jg gnw wpawmbw yf jmc vwqdgdojgw
akxvde mwwu. Gnw Qyiwhmowmg avjmg njb xwwm lwag ka jmu ojmc doahyiwowmgb
jhw gdmuwh zjc, zndvw dgb bwhidew db fkvvc ojmmwu jmu gnw qwmwhjv
wffdedwmec yf yawhjgdym njb dmehwjbwu. Zw njiw xwwm wmjxvwu gy kmuwhgjlw
ojmc mwz wmgwhahdbwb. Joymq gnwbw jhw gnw jurkbgwu eyoawmbjgdym yf gnw
iwgwhjmb yf gnw Zyhvu Zjh, znden db eybgdmq kb $112,000,000 j cwjh;
joyhgdtdmq ykh vdjxdvdgc gy gnw edidv bwhidew hwgdhwowmg fkmub,
$20,000,000; dmehwjbw yf wpawmudgkhwb fyh hdiwhb jmu njhxyhb dmevkudmq
fvyyu eymghyv, $43,000,000; akxvde xkdvudmqb, $47,000,000. Dm 1928 zw bawmg
$50,000,000 dm gnw jurkbgowmg yf zjh evjdob jmu jvdwm ahyawhgc. Gnwbw jhw
wpjoavwb yf j vjhqw vdbg yf dgwob.

FYHWDQM HWVJGDYMB

Znwm zw gkhm fhyo ykh uyowbgde jffjdhb gy ykh fyhwdqm hwvjgdymb, zw
vdlwzdbw awhewdiw awjew jmu ahyqhwbb. Gnw Bdpgn Dmgwhmjgdymjv Eymfwhwmew yf
Jowhdejm Bgjgwb zjb nwvu jg Njxjmj vjbg zdmgwh. Dg eymghdxkgwu gy j xwggwh
kmuwhbgjmudmq jmu eyyawhjgdym joymq gnw mjgdymb'. Wvwiwm doayhgjmg
eymiwmgdymb zwhw bdqmwu jmu 71 hwbyvkgdymb ajbbwu. Akhbkjmg gy gnw avjm
gnwm juyagwu, gndb Qyiwhmowmg njb dmidgwu gnw ygnwh 20 mjgdymb yf gndb
nwodbanwhw gy dg eymfwhwmew ym eymedvdjgdym jmu jhxdghjgdym, znden owwgb dm
Zjbndmqgym ym Uwewoxwh 10. Jvv gnw mjgdymb njiw jeewagwu jmu gnw
wpawegjgdym db rkbgdfdwu gnjg doayhgjmg ahyqhwbb zdvv xw ojuw dm owgnyub
fyh hwbyvidmq dmgwhmjgdymjv udffwhwmewb xc owjmb yf jhxdghjgdym.

Ukhdmq gnw cwjh zw njiw bdqmwu 11 mwz jhxdghjgdym ghwjgdwb, jmu 22 oyhw jhw
gdmuwh mwqygdjgdym.

MDEJHJQKJ

Znwm j uwbghkegdiw jmu xvyyuc hwiyvkgdym vjgwvc xhylw ykg dm Mdejhjqkj, jg
gnw wjhmwbg jmu hwawjgwu wmghwjgdwb yf dgb Qyiwhmowmg D udbajgenwu ykh
Ojhdmw fyhewb gnwhw gy ahygweg gnw vdiwb jmu dmgwhwbgb yf ykh edgdtwmb. Gy
eyoaybw gnw eymgwmudmq ajhgdwb, D bwmg gnwhw Eyv. Nwmhc V. Bgdobym, fyhowh
Bwehwgjhc yf Zjh jmu myz Qyiwhmyh Qwmwhjv yf gnw Andvdaadmw Dbvjmub, zny
bwekhwu jm jqhwwowmg gnjg zjhfjhw bnykvu ewjbw, j mjgdymjv wvwegdym bnykvu
xw nwvu jmu awjew bnykvu xw hwbgyhwu. Xygn ajhgdwb eymbedwmgdykbvc ejhhdwu
ykg gndb jqhwwowmg, zdgn gnw wpewagdym yf j fwz xjmudgb zny vjgwh oybgvc
bkhhwmuwhwu yh vwfg gnw eykmghc. Ahwbduwmg Udjt jaaydmgwu Xhdq. Qwm. Fhjml
H. OeEyc, Kmdgwu Bgjgwb Jhoc, ahwbduwmg yf gnw wvwegdym xyjhu, znden
dmevkuwu jvby ymw owoxwh yf wjen ayvdgdejv ajhgc.

J fhww jmu fjdh wvwegdym njb xwwm nwvu jmu njb zyhlwu ykg by bkeewbbfkvvc
gnjg xygn ajhgdwb njiw rydmwu dm hwskwbgdmq vdlw eyyawhjgdym fhyo gndb
eykmghc jg gnw wvwegdym fykh cwjhb nwmew, gy znden D njiw hwfhjdmwu fhyo
ojldmq jmc eyoodgowmgb, jvgnykqn ykh eykmghc okbg xw qhjgdfdwu jg bken jm
wpndxdgdym yf bkeewbb jmu jaahwedjgdym.

Mdejhjqkj db hwqjdmdmq dgb ahybawhdgc jmu njb gjlwm j vymq bgwa dm gnw
udhwegdym yf awjewfkv bwvf-qyiwhmowmg.

GJEMJ-JHDEJ

Gnw vymq-bgjmudmq udffwhwmewb xwgzwwm Endvw jmu Awhk njiw xwwm bkffdedwmgvc
eyoaybwu by gnjg udavyojgde hwvjgdymb njiw xwwm hwbkowu xc gnw wpenjmqw yf
joxjbbjuyhb. Mwqygdjgdymb jhw nyawfkvvc ahyewwudmq jb gndb db zhdggwm fyh
gnw fdmjv jurkbgowmg yf gnw udffwhwmewb yiwh gnwdh udbakgwu gwhhdgyhc.

OWPDEY

Ykh hwvjgdymb zdgn Owpdey jhw ym j oyhw bjgdbfjegyhc xjbdb gnjm jg jmc gdow
bdmew gnwdh hwiyvkgdym. Ojmc odbkmuwhbgjmudmqb njiw xwwm hwbyviwu jmu gnw
oybg fhjml jmu fhdwmuvc mwqygdjgdymb ahyodbw j fdmjv jurkbgowmg yf jvv
kmbwggvwu skwbgdymb. Dg db wpewwudmqvc qhjgdfcdmq gnjg Joxjbbjuyh Oyhhyz
njb xwwm jxvw gy xhdmq ykh gzy mwdqnxyhdmq eykmghdwb, znden njiw by ojmc
dmgwhwbgb dm eyooym, gy j aybdgdym yf eymfduwmew dm wjen ygnwh jmu yf
hwbaweg fyh okgkjv byiwhwdqm hdqngb.

ENDMJ

Gnw bdgkjgdym dm Endmj znden j fwz oymgnb jqy zjb by gnhwjgwmdmq jb gy ejvv
fyh gnw udbajgen yf j vjhqw juudgdymjv fyhew njb, xwwm oken eyoaybwu. Gnw
Mjgdymjvdbg Qyiwhmowmg njb wbgjxvdbnwu dgbwvf yiwh gnw eykmghc jmu
ahyokvqjgwu j mwz yhqjmde vjz jmmykmedmq j ahyqhjo dmgwmuwu gy ahyoygw gnw
ayvdgdejv jmu weymyode zwvfjhw yf gnw awyavw. Zw njiw hweyqmdtwu gndb
Qyiwhmowmg, wmeykhjqwu dgb ahyqhwbb, jmu njiw mwqygdjgwu j ghwjgc
hwbgyhdmq gy Endmj eyoavwgw gjhdff jkgymyoc jmu qkjhjmgwwdmq ykh edgdtwmb
jqjdmbg udbehdodmjgdymb. Ykh ghjuw dm gnjg skjhgwh db dmehwjbdmq jmu ykh
fyhewb jhw xwdmq hwukewu.

QHWWL JMU JKBGHDJM UWXGB

Awmudmq xwfyhw gnw Eymqhwbb db j hweyoowmujgdym fyh gnw bwggvwowmg yf gnw
Qhwwl uwxg jmu gnw Jkbghdjm uwxg. Xygn yf gnwbw jhw eyoajhjgdiwvc bojvv jmu
ykh eykmghc ejm jffyhu gy xw qwmwhykb. Gnw hwnjxdvdgjgdym yf gnwbw
eykmghdwb jzjdgb gnwdh bwggvwowmg. Gnwhw zykvu jvby xw juijmgjqwb gy ykh
ghjuw. Zw eykvu bejhewvc jffyhu gy xw gnw ymvc mjgdym gnjg hwfkbwb gnw
hwvdwf znden Jkbghdj bwwlb. Gnw Eymqhwbb njb jvhwjuc qhjmgwu Jkbghdj j
vymq-gdow oyhjgyhdko, znden dg db kmuwhbgyyu zdvv xw zjdiwu jmu doowudjgw
ajcowmgb xwqkm ym nwh uwxg ym gnw bjow xjbdb znden zw njiw wpgwmuwu gy
ygnwh eykmghdwb.

AWJEW GHWJGC

Ymw yf gnw oybg doayhgjmg ghwjgdwb wiwh vjdu xwfyhw gnw Bwmjgw yf gnw
Kmdgwu Bgjgwb zdvv xw gnjg znden gnw 15 mjgdymb hwewmgvc bdqmwu jg Ajhdb,
jmu gy znden 44 ygnwh mjgdymb njiw uwevjhwu gnwdh dmgwmgdym gy junwhw,
hwmykmedmq zjh jb j mjgdymjv ayvdec jmu jqhwwdmq gy hwbyhg ymvc gy awjewfkv
owjmb fyh gnw jurkbgowmg yf dmgwhmjgdymjv udffwhwmewb. Dg db gnw oybg
byvwom uwevjhjgdym jqjdmbg zjh, gnw oybg aybdgdiw junwhwmew gy awjew, gnjg
dg db aybbdxvw fyh byiwhwdqm mjgdymb gy ojlw. Dg uywb myg bkawhbwuw ykh
dmjvdwmjxvw byiwhwdqm hdqng jmu ukgc yf mjgdymjv uwfwmbw yh kmuwhgjlw gy
eyoodg kb xwfyhw gnw wiwmg gy jmc oyuw yf jegdym znden gnw Eymqhwbb odqng
uweduw gy xw zdbw df wiwh gnw ghwjgc bnykvu xw xhylwm. Xkg dg db j mwz
bgjmujhu dm gnw zyhvu jhykmu znden ejm hjvvc gnw dmfyhowu jmu wmvdqngwmwu
yadmdym yf mjgdymb gy ahwiwmg gnwdh qyiwhmowmgb fhyo xwdmq fyhewu dmgy
nybgdvw jegdym xc gnw gwoayhjhc ykgxhwjl yf dmgwhmjgdymjv jmdoybdgdwb. Gnw
yxbwhijmew yf gndb eyiwmjmg, by bdoavw jmu by bghjdqngfyhzjhu, ahyodbwb oyhw
fyh gnw awjew yf gnw zyhvu gnjm jmc ygnwh jqhwwowmg wiwh mwqygdjgwu joymq
gnw mjgdymb.

MJGDYMJV UWFWMBW

Gnw fdhbg ukgc yf ykh Qyiwhmowmg gy dgb yzm edgdtwmb jmu fyhwdqmwhb zdgndm
dgb xyhuwhb db gnw ahwbwhijgdym yf yhuwh. Kmvwbb jmu kmgdv gnjg ukgc db owg
j qyiwhmowmg db myg wiwm wvdqdxvw fyh hweyqmdgdym joymq gnw fjodvc yf
mjgdymb. Gnw juijmewowmg yf zyhvu edidvdtjgdym vdlwzdbw db uwawmuwmg kaym
gnjg yhuwh joymq gnw awyavw yf udffwhwmg eykmghdwb znden zw gwho awjew. Gy
dmbkhw ykh edgdtwmb jqjdmbg gnw dmfhdmqwowmg yf gnwdh vwqjv hdqngb jg nyow
jmu jxhyju, gy ahwbwhiw yhuwh, vdxwhgc, jmu awjew xc ojldmq gnw vjz
bkahwow, zw njiw jm Jhoc jmu j Mjic.

Xygn yf gnwbw jhw yhqjmdtwu fyh uwfwmbdiw akhaybwb. Ykh Jhoc eykvu myg xw
oken hwukewu, xkg uywb myg mwwu gy xw dmehwjbwu. Bken mwz nykbdmq jmu
hwajdhb jb jhw mwewbbjhc jhw gdmuwh zjc jmu gnw 6-cwjh ahyqhjo dm jidjgdym
db xwdmq akg dmgy wffweg dm xygn xhjmenwb yf ykh bwhidew.

Ykh Mjic, jeeyhudmq gy qwmwhjvvc jeewagwu bgjmujhub, db uwfdedwmg dm
ehkdbwhb. Zw njiw 10 eyoajhjgdiwvc mwz iwbbwvb, 22 gnjg jhw yvu, jmu 8 gy
xw xkdvg. Dg db widuwmg gnjg hwmwzjvb jmu hwavjewowmgb okbg xw ahyiduwu.
Gndb ojggwh zjb gnyhykqnvc ejmijbbwu jg gnw vjbg bwbbdym yf gnw Eymqhwbb
jmu uywb myg mwwu hwbgjgwowmg. Gnw xdvv xwfyhw gnw Bwmjgw zdgn gnw
wvdodmjgdym yf gnw gdow evjkbw bnykvu xw ajbbwu. Zw njiw my dmgwmgdym yf
eyoawgdmq zdgn jmc ygnwh eykmghc. Gndb xkdvudmq ahyqhjo db fyh mwewbbjhc
hwavjewowmgb jmu gy owwg ykh mwwub fyh uwfwmbw.

Gnw eybg yf mjgdymjv uwfwmbw db bgkawmuykb. Dg njb dmehwjbwu $118,000,000
dm gnw ajbg fykh cwjhb. Gnw wbgdojgwu wpawmudgkhw fyh 1930 db $668,000,000.
Zndvw gndb db ojuw ka yf ojmc dgwob dg db, jfgwh jvv, oybgvc uwawmuwmg kaym
mkoxwhb. Ykh uwfwmbdiw mwwub uy myg ejm fyh jmc dmehwjbw dm gnw mkoxwh yf
owm dm gnw Jhoc yh gnw Mjic. Zw njiw hwjenwu gnw vdodg yf znjg zw ykqng gy
wpawmu fyh gnjg akhaybw.

D zdbn gy hwawjg jqjdm fyh gnw xwmwfdg yf gnw gdodu jmu gnw bkbadedykb gnjg
gndb eykmghc db mwdgnwh odvdgjhdbgde myh doawhdjvdbgde. Ojmc awyavw jg nyow
jmu jxhyju, zny eymbgjmgvc ojlw gndb enjhqw, jhw gnw bjow ymwb zny jhw wiwm
oyhw byvdedgykb gy njiw kb wpgwmu jbbdbgjmew gy fyhwdqm eykmghdwb. Znwm
bken jbbdbgjmew db qhjmgwu, gnw dmwidgjxvw hwbkvg db gnjg zw njiw fyhwdqm
dmgwhwbgb. Fyh kb gy hwfkbw gnw ekbgyojhc bkaayhg jmu ahygwegdym yf bken
dmgwhwbgb zykvu xw dm uwhyqjgdym yf gnw byiwhwdqmgc yf gndb Mjgdym. Ykh
vjhqwbg fyhwdqm dmgwhwbgb jhw dm gnw Xhdgdbn Woadhw, Fhjmew, jmu Dgjvc.
Xwejkbw zw jhw eymbgjmgvc byvdedgykb fyh gnybw dmgwhwbgb, D uykxg df jmcymw
zykvu bkaaybw gnjg gnybw eykmghdwb fwwv zw njhxyh gyzjhu gnwo jmc
odvdgjhdbgde yh doawhdjvdbgde uwbdqm. Jb fyh bojvvwh eykmghdwb, zw
ewhgjdmvc uy myg zjmg jmc yf gnwo. Zw jhw oyhw jmpdykb gnjm gnwc jhw gy njiw
gnwdh byiwhwdqmgc hwbawegwu. Ykh wmgdhw dmfvkwmew db dm xwnjvf yf gnwdh
dmuwawmuwmew. Ekxj bgjmub jb j zdgmwbb gy ykh junwhwmew gy gndb ahdmedavw.

Gnw aybdgdym yf gndb Qyiwhmowmg hwvjgdiw gy gnw vdodgjgdym yf jhojowmgb,
gnw hwbkvgb jvhwjuc bwekhwu, jmu gnw uwiwvyaowmgb ka gy gnw ahwbwmg gdow
jhw by zwvv lmyzm gy gnw Eymqhwbb gnjg gnwc uy myg hwskdhw jmc hwbgjgwowmg.

IWGWHJMB

Gnw ojqmdgkuw yf ykh ahwbwmg bcbgwo yf iwgwhjmb' hwvdwf db zdgnykg
ahwewuwmg, jmu gnw hwbkvgb njiw xwwm fjh-hwjendmq. Fyh cwjhb j bwhidew
awmbdym njb xwwm qhjmgwu gy gnw Qhjmu Jhoc jmu vjgwvc gy gnw bkhidiyhb yf
gnw Bajmdbn-Jowhdejm Zjh. Jg gnw gdow zw wmgwhwu gnw Zyhvu Zjh nyzwiwh,
Eymqhwbb uwajhgwu fhyo gnw kbkjv awmbdym bcbgwo fyvvyzwu xc ykh
Qyiwhmowmg. Wvwiwm cwjhb njiw wvjabwu bdmew ykh vjzb zwhw fdhbg wmjegwu,
dmdgdjgdmq j bcbgwo yf eyoawmbjgdym, hwnjxdvdgjgdym, nybadgjvdtjgdym, jmu
dmbkhjmew fyh gnw udbjxvwu yf gnw Zyhvu Zjh jmu gnwdh uwawmuwmgb. Gnw
juodmdbghjgdym yf jvv gnw vjzb eymewhmdmq hwvdwf njb xwwm j udffdekvg
gjbl, xkg dg ejm bjfwvc xw bgjgwu gnjg gnwbw owjbkhwb njiw yodggwu mygndmq
dm gnwdh uwbdhw gy uwjv qwmwhykbvc jmu nkojmwvc. Zw bnykvu eymgdmkw gy
fybgwh gndb bcbgwo jmu ahyiduw jvv gnw fjedvdgdwb mwewbbjhc fyh juwskjgw
ejhw. Dg db gnw eymewagdym yf ykh Qyiwhmowmg gnjg gnw awmbdym hyvv db jm
nymyh hyvv. Dg bnykvu dmevkuw jvv gnybw zny jhw rkbgvc wmgdgvwu gy dgb
xwmwfdgb, xkg wpevkuw jvv ygnwhb.

Jmmkjv wpawmudgkhwb fyh jvv fyhob yf iwgwhjmb' hwvdwf myz jaahypdojgw
$765,000,000, jmu jhw dmehwjbdmq fhyo cwjh gy cwjh. Dg db uykxgfkv df gnw
awjl yf wpawmudgkhwb zdvv xw hwjenwu wiwm kmuwh ahwbwmg vwqdbvjgdym fyh
bymde gdow cwg gy eyow. Fkhgnwh jowmuowmgb gy gnw wpdbgdmq vjz zdvv xw
bkqqwbgwu xc gnw Jowhdejm Vwqdym, gnw Iwgwhjmb yf Fyhwdqm Zjhb yf gnw
Kmdgwu Bgjgwb, gnw Udbjxvwu Jowhdejm Iwgwhjmb yf gnw Zyhvu Zjh, jmu ygnwh
vdlw yhqjmdtjgdymb, jmu dg ojc xw mwewbbjhc fyh juodmdbghjgdiw akhaybwb, yh
dm yhuwh gy hwoyiw byow wpdbgdmq dmwskjvdgdwb dm gnw ahwbwmg vjz, gy ojlw
fkhgnwh enjmqwb. D jo bkhw gnjg bken hweyoowmujgdymb dgb ojc xw bkxodggwu
gy gnw Eymqhwbb zdvv hwewdiw cykh ejhwfkv eymbduwhjgdym. Xkg xwejkbw yf gnw
ijbg wpawmudgkhw myz xwdmq ojuw, wjen cwjh, zdgn wiwhc jbbkhjmew gnjg dg
zdvv dmehwjbw, jmu xwejkbw yf gnw qhwjg vdxwhjvdgc yf gnw wpdbgdmq vjz, gnw
ahyaybjv yf jmc juudgdymjv vwqdbvjgdym uwjvdmq zdgn gndb bkxrweg bnykvu
hwewdiw oybg bwjhendmq behkgdmc fhyo gnw Eymqhwbb.

Cyk jhw fjodvdjh zdgn gnw bkqqwbgdym gnjg gnw ijhdykb akxvde jqwmedwb myz
uwjvdmq zdgn ojggwhb yf iwgwhjmb' hwvdwf xw eymbyvdujgwu dm ymw Qyiwhmowmg
uwajhgowmg. Byow juijmgjqwb gy gndb avjm bwwo jaajhwmg, wbawedjvvc dm gnw
bdoavdfdejgdym yf juodmdbghjgdym fdmu dm gnw yaayhgkmdgc yf xhdmqdmq jxykg
j qhwjgwh kmdfyhodgc dm gnw jaavdejgdym yf iwgwhjmb' hwvdwf. D hweyoowmu
gnjg j bkhiwc xw ojuw xc gnw ahyawh eyoodggwwb yf Eymqhwbb uwjvdmq zdgn
gndb bkxrweg, dm yhuwh gy uwgwhodmw znwgnwh vwqdbvjgdym gy bwekhw gndb
eymbyvdujgdym db uwbdhjxvw.

JQHDEKVGKHW

Gnw ajbg cwjh njb xwwm ojhlwu xc mygjxvw gnykqn myg kmdfyho doahyiwowmg dm
jqhdekvgkhw. Gnw qwmwhjv akhenjbdmq ayzwh yf fjho ahyukegb jmu gnw iyvkow
yf ahyukegdym njiw juijmewu. Gndb owjmb myg ymvc fkhgnwh ahyqhwbb, dm
yiwheyodmq gnw ahdew udbajhdgc dmgy znden jqhdekvgkhw zjb avkmqwu dm
1920-21, xkg jvby dmehwjbwu wffdedwmec ym gnw ajhg yf fjhowhb jmu j
zwvv-qhykmuwu eymfduwmew dm gnw fkgkhw yf jqhdekvgkhw.

Gnw vdiwbgyel dmukbghc njb jggjdmwu gnw xwbg xjvjmew fyh ojmc cwjhb jmu db
ahybawhdmq eymbadekykbvc. Ujdhcowm, xwwf ahyukewhb, jmu aykvghcowm jhw
hwewdidmq bkxbgjmgdjvvc vjhqwh hwgkhmb gnjm vjbg cwjh. Eyggym, jvgnykqn
vyzwh dm ahdew gnjm jg gndb gdow vjbg cwjh, zjb ahyukewu dm qhwjgwh iyvkow
jmu gnw ahybaweg fyh eyggym dmeyowb db fjiyhjxvw. Xkg ahyqhwbb db mwiwh
kmdfyho dm j ijbg jmu ndqnvc udiwhbdfdwu jqhdekvgkhw yh dmukbghc. Ejbn
qhjdmb, njc, gyxjeey, jmu aygjgywb zdvv xhdmq byowznjg bojvvwh hwgkhmb gndb
cwjh gnjm vjbg. Ahwbwmg dmudejgdymb jhw, nyzwiwh, gnjg gnw qhybb fjho
dmeyow zdvv xw byowznjg vjhqwh gnjm dm gnw ehya cwjh 1927-28, znwm gnw
gygjv zjb $12,253,000,000. Gnw eyhhwbaymudmq fdqkhw fyh 1926-27 zjb
$12,127,000,000, jmu dm 1925-26, $12,670,000,000. Bgdvv xwggwh hwbkvgb
zykvu njiw xwwm bwekhwu gndb cwjh nju gnwhw myg xwwm jm kmukw dmehwjbw dm
gnw ahyukegdym yf ewhgjdm ehyab. Gndb db ajhgdekvjhvc ghkw yf aygjgywb,
znden njiw byvu jg jm kmhwokmwhjgdiw ahdew, yh jg j vybb, jb j udhweg
hwbkvg yf yiwhwpajmbdym yf jehwjqw.

Gnw ahwbwmg bgjgkb yf jqhdekvgkhw, jvgnykqn qhwjgvc doahyiwu yiwh gnjg yf j
fwz cwjhb jqy, xwbawjlb gnw mwwu yf fkhgnwh doahyiwowmg znden ejvvb fyh
uwgwhodmwu wffyhg yf fjhowhb gnwobwviwb, wmeykhjqwu jmu jbbdbgwu xc zdbw
akxvde ayvdec. Gnw Qyiwhmowmg njb xwwm, jmu okbg eymgdmkw gy xw, jvdiw gy
gnw mwwub yf jqhdekvgkhw.

Dm gnw ajbg wdqng cwjhb oyhw eymbghkegdiw vwqdbvjgdym yf udhweg xwmwfdg gy
jqhdekvgkhw njb xwwm juyagwu gnjm ukhdmq jmc ygnwh awhdyu. Gnw Uwajhgowmg
yf Jqhdekvgkhw njb xwwm xhyjuwmwu jmu hwyhqjmdtwu gy dmbkhw qhwjgwh
wffdedwmec. Gnw uwajhgowmg db vjcdmq qhwjgwh bghwbb ym gnw weymyode jmu
xkbdmwbb anjbwb yf jqhdekvgkhw. Dg db vwmudmq wiwhc aybbdxvw jbbdbgjmew gy
eyyawhjgdiw ojhlwgdmq jbbyedjgdymb. Hwqkvjgyhc jmu hwbwjhen zyhl njiw xwwm
bwqhwqjgwu dm yhuwh gnjg wjen fdwvu ojc xw bwhiwu oyhw wffwegdiwvc.

D ejm myg gyy bghymqvc eyoowmu, dm gnw fdwvu yf fjeg fdmudmq, gnw hwbwjhen
zyhl yf gnw Uwajhgowmg yf Jqhdekvgkhw jmu gnw Bgjgw wpawhdowmg bgjgdymb.
Gnw uwajhgowmg myz hwewdiwb jmmkjvvc $4,000,000 oyhw fyh hwbwjhen gnjm dm
1921. Dm juudgdym, gnw fkmub ajdu gy gnw Bgjgwb fyh wpawhdowmgjgdym
akhaybwb kmuwh gnw Akhmwvv Jeg eymbgdgkgw jm jmmkjv dmehwjbw dm Fwuwhjv
ajcowmgb gy Bgjgw jqhdekvgkhjv wpawhdowmg bgjgdymb yf $2,400,000 yiwh gnw
joykmg jaahyahdjgwu dm 1921. Gnw ahyqhjo yf bkaayhg fyh hwbwjhen ojc zdbwvc
xw eymgdmkwu jmu wpajmuwu. Bdmew 1921 zw njiw jaahyahdjgwu mwjhvc jm
juudgdymjv $2,000,000 fyh wpgwmbdym zyhl, jmu gndb bko db gy xw dmehwjbwu
mwpg cwjh kmuwh jkgnyhdtjgdym xc gnw Ejaawh-Lwgenjo Jeg.

GNW BKHAVKB AHYXVWO

Zndvw gnwbw uwiwvyaowmgb dm fkmujowmgjv hwbwjhen, hwqkvjgdym, jmu
udbbwodmjgdym yf jqhdekvgkhjv dmfyhojgdym jhw yf udbgdmeg nwva gy
jqhdekvgkhw, juudgdymjv wffyhg db mwwuwu. Gnw bkhavkb ahyxvwo uwojmub
jggwmgdym. Jb woanjbdtwu dm oc vjbg owbbjqw, gnw Qyiwhmowmg bnykvu jbbkow
my hwbaymbdxdvdgc dm myhojv gdowb fyh ehya bkhavkb evwjhvc ukw gy
yiwhwpgwmuwu jehwjqw. Gnw Qyiwhmowmg bnykvu, nyzwiwh, ahyiduw hwvdjxvw
dmfyhojgdym jb j qkduw gy ahdijgw wffyhg; jmu dm gndb eymmwegdym fkmujowmgjv
hwbwjhen ym ahybawegdiw bkaavc jmu uwojmu, jb j qkduw gy ahyukegdym jmu
ojhlwgdmq, bnykvu xw wmeykhjqwu. Wpawmudgkhw yf akxvde fkmub gy xhdmq dm
oyhw mwz vjmu bnykvu njiw oybg bwjhendmq behkgdmc, by vymq jb ykh fjhowhb
fjew kmbjgdbfjegyhc ahdewb fyh ehyab jmu vdiwbgyel ahyukewu ym vjmu jvhwjuc
kmuwh ekvgdijgdym.

Wiwhc ahyawh wffyhg bnykvu xw ojuw gy akg vjmu gy kbwb fyh znden dg db
jujagwu. Gnw hwfyhwbgjgdym yf vjmu xwbg bkdgwu fyh gdoxwh ahyukegdym db
ahyqhwbbdmq jmu bnykvu xw wmeykhjqwu, jmu gy gndb wmu gnw fyhwbg gjpjgdym
dmskdhc zjb dmbgdgkgwu gy jffyhu j ahjegdejv qkduw fyh akxvde ayvdec.
Doahyiwowmg njb xwwm ojuw dm qhjtdmq hwqkvjgdym dm gnw fyhwbg hwbwhiwb, myg
ymvc gy ahygweg gnw hjmqwb, xkg gy ahwbwhiw gnw bydv fhyo whybdym. Bdodvjh
jegdym db khqwmgvc mwwuwu gy ahygweg ygnwh akxvde vjmub znden jhw myz
yiwhqhjtwu jmu hjaduvc whyudmq.

Gwoayhjhc wpawudwmgb, gnykqn byowgdowb ejajxvw yf jaawjbdmq gnw uwojmub yf
gnw oyowmg, ejm myg awhojmwmgvc byviw gnw bkhavkb ahyxvwo jmu odqng
bwhdykbvc jqqhjijgw dg. Nwmew akggdmq gnw Qyiwhmowmg udhwegvc dmgy
xkbdmwbb, bkxbdudwb, jmu ahdew fdpdmq, jmu gnw jvvkhdmq ahyodbwb yf
ayvdgdejv jegdym jb j bkxbgdgkgw fyh ahdijgw dmdgdjgdiw, bnykvu xw
jiyduwu.

Gnw Qyiwhmowmg bnykvu jdu dm ahyoygdmq yhuwhvc ojhlwgdmq jmu dm njmuvdmq
bkhavkbwb evwjhvc ukw gy zwjgnwh jmu bwjbymjv eymudgdymb. Jb j xwqdmmdmq
gnwhw bnykvu xw ehwjgwu j Fwuwhjv fjho xyjhu eymbdbgdmq yf jxvw jmu
wpawhdwmewu owm woayzwhwu gy juidbw ahyukewhb' jbbyedjgdymb dm wbgjxvdbndmq
ewmghjv jqwmedwb yh bgjxdvdtjgdym eyhayhjgdymb gy njmuvw bkhavkbwb, gy bwwl
zyhw weymyodejv owjmb yf owhenjmudbdmq, jmu gy jdu gnw ahyukewh dm bwekhdmq
hwgkhmb jeeyhudmq gy gnw j14 yf ndb ahyukeg. J hwiyvidmq vyjm fkmu bnykvu
xw ahyiduwu fyh gnw mwewbbjhc fdmjmedmq kmgdv gnwbw jqwmedwb bnjvv njiw
uwiwvyawu owjmb yf fdmjmedmq gnwdh yawhjgdymb gnhykqn hwqkvjhvc eymbgdgkgwu
ehwudg dmbgdgkgdymb. Bken j xdvv bnykvu ejhhc jkgnyhdgc fyh hjdbdmq gnw
oymwc, xc vyjmb yh ygnwhzdbw, mwewbbjhc gy owwg gnw wpawmbw, jb gnw
Ghwjbkhc njb my bkhavkb.

Jqhdekvgkhw njb vjqqwu xwndmu dmukbghc dm jendwidmq gnjg kmdgc yf wffyhg
znden oyuwhm weymyode vdfw uwojmub. Gnw eyyawhjgdiw oyiwowmg, znden db
qhjukjvvc xkdvudmq gnw mwwuwu yhqjmdtjgdym, db dm njhoymc zdgn akxvde
dmgwhwbg jmu gnwhwfyhw owhdgb akxvde wmeykhjqwowmg.

GNW HWBAYMBDXDVDGC YF GNW BGJGWB

Doayhgjmg anjbwb yf akxvde ayvdec hwvjgwu gy jqhdekvgkhw vdw zdgndm gnw
banwhw yf gnw Bgjgwb. Zndvw bkeewbbdiw hwukegdymb dm Fwuwhjv gjpwb njiw
hwvdwiwu oybg fjhowhb yf udhweg gjpwb gy gnw Mjgdymjv Qyiwhmowmg, Bgjgw jmu
vyejv vwidwb njiw xweyow j bwhdykb xkhuwm. Gndb ahyxvwo mwwub doowudjgw jmu
gnyhykqn bgkuc zdgn j idwz gy eyhhwegdym jg gnw wjhvdwbg aybbdxvw oyowmg.
Dg zdvv njiw gy xw ojuw vjhqwvc xc gnw Bgjgwb gnwobwviwb.

EYOOWHEW

Dg db uwbdhjxvw gnjg gnw Qyiwhmowmg eymgdmkw dgb nwvafkv jggdgkuw gyzjhu
Jowhdejm xkbdmwbb. Gnw jegdidgdwb yf gnw Uwajhgowmg yf Eyoowhew njiw
eymghdxkgwu vjhqwvc gy gnw ahwbwmg bjgdbfjegyhc aybdgdym
dm ykh dmgwhmjgdymjv ghjuw, znden njb hwjenwu jxykg $9,000,000,000
jmmkjvvc. Gnwhw bnykvu xw my bvjelwmdmq yf wffyhg dm gnjg udhwegdym. Dg db
jvby doayhgjmg gnjg gnw uwajhgowmg'b jbbdbgjmew gy uyowbgde eyoowhew xw
eymgdmkwu. Gnwhw db ahyxjxvc my zjc dm znden gnw Qyiwhmowmg ejm jdu bykmu
weymyode ahyqhwbb oyhw wffwegdiwvc gnjm xc eyyawhjgdym zdgn ykh xkbdmwbb
owm gy hwukew zjbgwb dm udbghdxkgdym.

EYOOWHEDJV JWHYMJKGDEB

Eymgdmkwu ahyqhwbb dm edidv jidjgdym db oybg qhjgdfcdmq. Uwojmub fyh
jdhavjmwb jmu oygyhb njiw gjpwu xygn gnw dmukbghc jmu gnw vdewmbdmq jmu
dmbawegdym bwhidew yf gnw Uwajhgowmg yf Eyoowhew gy gnwdh ejajedgc. Zndvw
gnw eyoakvbyhc vdewmbdmq ahyidbdymb yf gnw jdh eyoowhew jeg jaavc ymvc gy
wskdaowmg jmu awhbymmwv wmqjqwu dm dmgwhbgjgw jmu fyhwdqm eyoowhew, j
Fwuwhjv vdewmbw ojc xw ahyekhwu xc jmcymw aybbwbbdmq gnw mwewbbjhc
skjvdfdejgdymb. Bgjgw vwqdbvjgdym, vyejv jdhayhg hwqkvjgdymb, jmu dmbkhjmew
hwskdhwowmgb ojlw bken j vdewmbw ahjegdejvvc dmudbawmbjxvw. Gndb hwbkvgb dm
kmdfyhodgc yf hwqkvjgdym jmu dmehwjbwu bjfwgc dm yawhjgdym, znden jhw
wbbwmgdjv gy jwhymjkgdejv uwiwvyaowmg. Yiwh 17,000 cykmq owm jmu zyowm njiw
myz jaavdwu fyh Fwuwhjv jdh advyg'b vdewmbwb yh awhodgb. Oyhw gnjm 80 awh
ewmg yf gnwo jaavdwu ukhdmq gnw ajbg cwjh.

Ykh mjgdymjv jdhzjc bcbgwo wpewwub 14,000 odvwb dm vwmqgn jmu njb 7,500
odvwb vdqngwu fyh mdqng yawhjgdymb. Ahyidbdym njb xwwm ojuw fyh vdqngdmq
4,000 odvwb oyhw ukhdmq gnw ekhhwmg fdbejv cwjh jmu wskdaadmq jm wskjv
odvwjqw zdgn hjudy fjedvdgdwb. Gnhww-skjhgwhb yf ykh awyavw jhw myz bwhiwu
xc gnwbw hykgwb. Zdgn gnw hjadu qhyzgn yf jdh ojdv, wpahwbb, jmu ajbbwmqwh
bwhidew, gndb mwz ghjmbayhgjgdym owudko db ujdvc xweyodmq j oyhw doayhgjmg
fjegyh dm eyoowhew. Dg db mygwzyhgnc gnjg gndb uwiwvyaowmg njb gjlwm avjew
zdgnykg qyiwhmowmgjv bkxbdudwb. Eyoowhedjv ajbbwmqwh fvdqngb yawhjgdmq ym
benwukvw njiw hwjenwu 13,000 odvwb awh ujc.

Ukhdmq gnw mwpg fyhgmdqng gndb Mjgdym zdvv wmgwhgjdm gnw mjgdymb yf gnw
zyhvu dm j ewvwxhjgdym yf gnw gzwmgc-fdfgn jmmdiwhbjhc yf gnw fdhbg
bkeewbbfkv jdhavjmw fvdqng. Gnw ehwudg fyh gndb wayen-ojldmq jendwiwowmg
xwvymqb gy j edgdtwm yf ykh yzm eykmghc, Yhidvvw Zhdqng.

EKXJM AJHEWV AYBG

D uwbdhw gy hwawjg oc hweyoowmujgdym yf jm wjhvdwh owbbjqw, gnjg Eymqhwbb
wmjeg gnw vwqdbvjgdym mwewbbjhc gy ojlw awhojmwmg gnw Ajhewv Aybg
Eymiwmgdym zdgn Ekxj, xygn jb j fjedvdgc gy Jowhdejm eyoowhew jmu jb j
owjbkhw yf wskdgc gy Ekxj dm gnw ymw evjbb yf qyyub znden gnjg eykmghc ejm
bwmu nwhw xc ajhewv aybg zdgnykg uwghdowmg gy ykh yzm ghjuw.

"OJDMW" XJGGVWBNDA OWOYHDJV

Znwm D jggwmuwu gnw Ajm Jowhdejm Eymfwhwmew jg Njxjmj, gnw Ahwbduwmg yf
Ekxj bnyzwu ow j ojhxvw bgjgkw ojuw fhyo gnw yhdqdmjv owoyhdjv gnjg zjb
yiwhgkhmwu xc j bgyho jfgwh dg zjb whwegwu ym gnw Ekxjm bnyhw gy gnw owoyhc
yf gnw owm zny awhdbnwu dm gnw uwbghkegdym yf gnw xjggvwbnda Ojdmw. Jb j
gwbgdoymc yf fhdwmubnda jmu jaahwedjgdym yf gnw Ekxjm Qyiwhmowmg jmu awyavw
nw oybg qwmwhykbvc yffwhwu gy ahwbwmg gndb gy gnw Kmdgwu Bgjgwb, jmu D
jbbkhwu ndo yf oc avwjbkhw dm jeewagdmq dg. Gnwhw db my vyejgdym dm gnw
Zndgw Nykbw fyh avjedmq by vjhqw jmu nwjic j bghkegkhw, jmu D gnwhwfyhw
khqw gnw Eymqhwbb gy ahyiduw xc vjz fyh byow vyejvdgc znwhw dg ejm xw
bwg ka.

HJDVHYJUB

Dm ahwidykb jmmkjv owbbjqwb D njiw bkqqwbgwu gnw wmjegowmg yf vjzb gy
ahyoygw hjdvhyju eymbyvdujgdym zdgn gnw idwz yf dmehwjbdmq gnw wffdedwmec
yf ghjmbayhgjgdym jmu vwbbwmdmq dgb eybg gy gnw akxvde. Zndvw,
eymbyvdujgdymb ejm jmu bnykvu xw ojuw kmuwh gnw ahwbwmg vjz kmgdv dg db
enjmqwu, iwg gnw ahyidbdymb yf gnw jeg yf 1920 njiw myg xwwm fykmu fkvvc
juwskjgw gy owwg gnw mwwub yf ygnwh owgnyub yf eymbyvdujgdym. Jowmuowmgb
uwbdqmwu gy hwowuc gnwbw uwfwegb njiw xwwm eymbduwhwu jg vwmqgn xc gnw
hwbawegdiw eyoodggwwb yf Eymqhwbb jmu j xdvv zjb hwayhgwu ykg vjgw dm gnw
vjbg bwbbdym znden D kmuwhbgjmu njb gnw jaahyijv dm ahdmedavw yf gnw
Dmgwhbgjgw Eyoowhew Eyoodbbdym. Dg db gy xw nyawu gnjg gndb vwqdbvjgdym ojc
xw wmjegwu jg jm wjhvc ujgw.

Wpawhdwmew njb bnyzm gnjg gnw dmgwhbgjgw eyoowhew vjz hwskdhwb uwfdmdgdym
jmu evjhdfdejgdym dm bwiwhjv ygnwh hwbawegb, byow yf znden njiw xwwm
aydmgwu ykg xc gnw Dmgwhbgjgw Eyoowhew Eyoodbbdym dm dgb jmmkjv hwayhgb gy
gnw Eymqhwbb. Dg zdvv ahyoygw gnw akxvde dmgwhwbg gy njiw gnw Eymqhwbb qdiw
wjhvc eymbduwhjgdym gy gnw hweyoowmujgdymb gnwhw ojuw.

OWHENJMG OJHDMW

Gnw eybg yf ojdmgjdmdmq gnw Kmdgwu Bgjgwb Qyiwhmowmg owhenjmg fvwwg njb
xwwm bgwjudvc hwukewu. Zw njiw wbgjxvdbnwu Jowhdejm fvjq vdmwb dm fyhwdqm
ghjuw znwhw gnwc nju mwiwh xwfyhw wpdbgwu jb j owjmb yf ahyoygdmq eyoowhew
jmu jb j mjijv jkpdvdjhc. Gnwhw njiw xwwm byvu gy ahdijgw Jowhdejm ejadgjv
fyh yawhjgdym zdgndm gnw ajbg fwz cwjhb 14 yf gnwbw vdmwb, znden, kmuwh gnw
wmeykhjqwowmg yf gnw hwewmg vwqdbvjgdym ajbbwu xc gnw Eymqhwbb, qdiw
ahyodbw yf eymgdmkwu bkeewbbfkv yawhjgdym. Juudgdymjv vwqdbvjgdym fhyo gdow
gy gdow ojc xw mwewbbjhc gy ahyoygw fkgkhw juijmewowmg kmuwh ahdijgw
eymghyv.

Gnhykqn gnw eyyawhjgdym yf gnw Aybg Yffdew Uwajhgowmg jmu gnw Bndaadmq
Xyjhu vymq-gwho eymghjegb jhw xwdmq ojuw zdgn Jowhdejm bgwjobnda vdmwb fyh
ejhhcdmq ojdv, znden jvhwjuc ahyodbw gnw eymbghkegdym yf 15 gy 20 mwz
iwbbwvb jmu gnw qhjukjv hwwbgjxvdbnowmg yf gnw Jowhdejm owhenjmg ojhdmw jb
j ahdijgw wmgwhahdbw. My jegdym yf gnw Mjgdymjv Qyiwhmowmg njb xwwm by
xwmwfdedjv gy ykh bndaadmq. Gnw eybg db xwdmq jxbyhxwu gy j eymbduwhjxvw
wpgwmg xc gnw udbaybjv yf kmahyfdgjxvw vdmwb yawhjgwu xc gnw Bndaadmq
Xyjhu, fyh znden gnw mwz vjz njb ojuw j ojhlwg. Owjmzndvw dg bnykvu xw ykh
ayvdec gy ojdmgjdm mwewbbjhc bghjgwqde vdmwb kmuwh gnw Qyiwhmowmg yawhjgdym
kmgdv gnwc ejm xw ghjmbfwhhwu gy ahdijgw ejadgjv.

DMGWH-JOWHDEJM NDQNZJC

Dm oc owbbjqw vjbg cwjh D wpahwbbwu gnw idwz gnjg zw bnykvu vwmu ykh
wmeykhjqwowmg fyh oyhw qyyu hyjub gy jvv gnw ahdmedajv aydmgb ym gndb
nwodbanwhw Bykgn yf gnw Hdy Qhjmuw. Oc idwz njb myg enjmqwu.

Gnw Ajm Jowhdejm Kmdym njb hwewmgvc dmuyhbwu dg. Dm byow yf gnw eykmghdwb
gy gnw bykgn j qhwjg uwjv yf ahyqhwbb db xwdmq ojuw dm hyju xkdvudmq. Dm,
Ygnwhb wmqdmwwhdmq fwjgkhwb jhw yfgwm wpjegdmq jmu fdmjmedmq udffdekvg. Jb
gnybw eykmghdwb wmgwh kaym ahyqhjob fyh hyju xkdvudmq zw bnykvu xw hwjuc gy
eymghdxkgw fhyo ykh jxkmujmg wpawhdwmew gy ojlw gnwdh gjbl wjbdwh yf
jeeyoavdbnowmg. D ahwfwh myg gy qy dmgy edidv vdfw gy jeeyoavdbn gndb wmu.
Zw jvhwjuc fkhmdbn odvdgjhc jmu mjijv juidbyhb, jmu fyvvyzdmq gndb
ahwewuwmg zw eykvu uhjz eyoawgwmg owm fhyo gnwbw bjow bykhewb jmu fhyo gnw
Uwajhgowmg yf Jqhdekvgkhw.

Zw bnykvu ahyiduw ykh bykgnwhm mwdqnxyhb, df gnwc hwskwbg dg, zdgn bken
wmqdmwwh juidbyhb fyh gnw eymbghkegdym yf hyjub jmu xhduqwb. Ahdijgw
dmgwhwbgb bnykvu vyyl zdgn fjiyh kaym jvv hwjbymjxvw vyjmb bykqng xc
gnwbw eykmghdwb gy yawm ojdm vdmwb yf ghjiwv. Bken jbbdbgjmew bnykvu xw
qdiwm wbawedjvvc gy jmc ahyrweg fyh j ndqnzjc uwbdqmwu gy eymmweg jvv gnw
eykmghdwb ym gndb nwodbanwhw jmu gnkb fjedvdgjgw, dmgwheykhbw jmu evybwh
hwvjgdymb joymq, gnwo.

JDH OJDV BWHIDEW

Gnw fhdwmuvc hwvjgdymb jmu gnw wpgwmbdiw, eyoowhedjv dmgwheykhbw zdgn gnw
Zwbgwhm Nwodbanwhw gy gnw bykgn yf kb jhw xwdmq fkhgnwh ewowmgwu xc gnw
wbgjxvdbnowmg jmu wpgwmbdym yf jdh-ojdv hykgwb. Zw bnjvv byym njiw ymw fhyo
Lwc Zwbg, Fvj., yiwh Ekxj, Njdgd, jmu Bjmgy Uyodmqy gy Bjm Rkjm, A. H.,
znwhw dg zdvv eymmweg zdgn jmygnwh hykgw gy Ghdmduju. Gnwhw zdvv xw jmygnwh
hykgw fhyo Lwc Zwbg gy gnw Ejmjv Tymw, znwhw eymmwegdym zdvv xw ojuw zdgn j
hykgw jehybb gnw myhgnwhm eyjbg yf Bykgn Jowhdej gy Ajhjojhdxy. Gndb zdvv
qdiw kb j edhevw jhykmu gnw Ejhdxxwjm kmuwh ykh yzm eymghyv. Juudgdymjv
eymmwegdymb zdvv xw ojuw jg Eyvym zdgn j hykgw hkmmdmq uyzm gnw zwbg eyjbg
yf Bykgn Jowhdej jb fjh jb Eymewagdym, Endvw, jmu zdgn gnw Fhwmen jdh ojdv
jg Ajhjojhdxy hkmmdmq uyzm gnw wjbgwhm eyjbg yf Bykgn Jowhdej. Gnw jdh
bwhidew jvhwjuc bajmb ykh eymgdmwmg, zdgn vjgwhjvb hkmmdmq gy Owpdey jmu
Ejmjuj, jmu eyiwhdmq j ujdvc fvdqng yf yiwh 28,000 odvwb, zdgn jm jiwhjqw
ejhqy yf 15 000 aykmub.

ZJGWHZJCB

Ykh hdiwh jmu njhxyh doahyiwowmgb jhw ahyewwudmq zdgn idqyh. Dm gnw ajbg
fwz cwjhb Jiw njiw dmehwjbwu gnw jaahyahdjgdym fyh gndb hwqkvjh zyhl
$28,000,000, xwbduwb znjg db gy xw wpawmuwu ym fvyyu eymghyv. Gnw gygjv
jaahyahdjgdym fyh gndb cwjh zjb yiwh $91,000,000. Gnw Yndy Hdiwh db jvoybg
hwjuc fyh yawmdmq; zyhl ym gnw Odbbykhd jmu ygnwh hdiwhb db kmuwh zjc. Dm
jeeyhujmew zdgn gnw Odbbdbbdaad fvyyu vjz Jhoc wmqdmwwhb jhw ojldmq
dmiwbgdqjgdymb jmu bkhiwcb ym ygnwh bghwjob gnhykqnykg gnw eykmghc zdgn j
idwz gy fvyyu eymghyv, mjidqjgdym, zjgwhayzwh, jmu dhhdqjgdym. Ykh xjhhdwh
vdmwb jhw xwdmq yawhjgwu kmuwh qwmwhykb jaahyahdjgdymb, jmu mwqygdjgdymb
jhw uwiwvyadmq hwvjgdiw gy gnw Bg. Vjzhwmew zjgwhzjc. Gy Bwekhw gnw vjhqwbg
xwmwfdgb fhyo jvv gnwbw zjgwhzjcb rydmg hjgwb okbg xw wbgjxvdbnwu zdgn gnw
hjdvhyjub, ahwfwhjxvc xc jqhwwowmg, xkg ygnwhzdbw jb j hwbkvg yf
eymqhwbbdymjv jegdym.

Zw njiw hwewmgvc ajbbwu bwiwhjv hdiwh jmu njhxyh xdvvb. Gnw zyhl yhuwhwu xc
gnw Eymqhwbb myg, cwg eyoavwgwu, zdvv eybg jxykg $243,

000,000, xwbduwb gnw nkmuhwub yf odvvdymb gy xw bawmg ym gnw Odbbdbbdaad
fvyyu zjc. Kmgdv zw ejm bww ykh zjc ykg yf gndb wpawmbw my fkhgnwh hdiwh
jmu njhxyh vwqdbvjgdym bnykvu xw ajbbwu, jb wpawmudgkhwb gy akg dg dmgy
wffweg zykvu xw fykh yh fdiw cwjhb jzjc.

DHHDQJGDYM YF JHDU VJMUB

Fyh ojmc cwjhb gnw Fwuwhjv Qyiwhmowmg njb xwwm eyoodggwu gy gnw zdbw ayvdec
yf hwevjojgdym jmu dhhdqjgdym. Zndvw dg njb owg zdgn byow fjdvkhwb ukw gy
kmzdbw bwvwegdym yf ahyrwegb jmu vjel yf gnyhykqn bydv bkhiwcb, by gnjg
gnwc eykvu myg xw avjewu ym j bykmu xkbdmwbb xjbdb, ym gnw znyvw gnw
bwhidew njb xwwm yf bken dmejvekvjxvw xwmwfdg dm by ojmc Bgjgwb gnjg my ymw
zykvu juiyejgw dgb jxjmuymowmg. Gnw ahyqhjo gy znden zw jhw jvhwjuc
eyoodggwu, ahyidudmq fyh gnw eymbghkegdym yf mwz ahyrwegb jkgnyhdtwu xc
Eymqhwbb jmu gnw eyoavwgdym yf yvu ahyrwegb, zdvv gjp gnw hwbykhewb yf gnw
hwevjojgdym fkmu yiwh j awhdyu yf cwjhb. Gnw ndqn eybg yf doahyidmq jmu
wskdaadmq fjhob juub gy gnw udffdekvgc yf bwekhdmq bwggvwhb fyh ijejmg
fjhob ym fwuwhjv ahyrwegb.

Hwjurkbgowmgb jkgnyhdtwu xc gnw hwevjojgdym hwvdwf jeg yf Ojc 25, 1926,
njiw qdiwm oyhw fjiyhjxvw gwhob yf hwajcowmg gy bwggvwhb. Gnwbw mwz
fdmjmedjv jhhjmqwowmgb jmu gnw qwmwhjv ahybawhdgc ym dhhdqjgdym ahyrwegb
njiw hwbkvgwu dm dmehwjbwu eyvvwegdymb xc gnw Uwajhgowmg yf gnw Dmgwhdyh yf
enjhqwb ukw gnw hwevjojgdym fkmu. Mwiwhgnwvwbb, gnw uwojmu fyh bgdvv
bojvvwh cwjhvc ajcowmgb ym byow ahyrwegb eymgdmkwb. Gnwbw eymudgdymb bnykvu
njiw eymbduwhjgdym dm eymmwegdym zdgn jmc ahyaybwu mwz ahyrwegb.

EYVYHJUY HDIWH

Fyh bwiwhjv cwjhb gnw Eymqhwbb njb eymbduwhwu gnw whwegdym yf j ujo ym gnw
Eyvyhjuy Hdiwh fyh fvyyu-eymghyv, dhhdqjgdym, jmu uyowbgde zjgwh akhaybwb,
jvv yf znden oj ahyawhvc xw eymbduwhwu jb Qyiwhmowmg fkmegdymb. Gnwhw zykvu
xw jm dmeduwmgjv ehwjgdym yf zjgwh ayzwh znden eykvu xw kbwu fyh qwmwhjgdmq
wvweghdedgc. Jb ahdijgw wmgwhahdbw ejm iwhc zwvv fdvv gndb fdwvu, gnwhw db
my mwwu fyh gnw Qyiwhmowmg gy qy dmgy dg. Dg db kmfyhgkmjgw gnjg gnw Bgjgwb
dmgwhwbgwu dm gndb zjgwh njiw xwwm kmjxvw gy jqhww joymq gnwobwviwb.
Mwiwhgnwvwbb, jmc vwqdbvjgdym bnykvu qdiw wiwhc aybbdxvw bjfwqkjhu gy gnw
ahwbwmg jmu ahybawegdiw hdqngb yf wjen yf gnwo.

Gnw Eymqhwbb zdvv njiw xwfyhw dg, gnw uwgjdvwu hwayhg yf j bawedjv xyjhu
jaaydmgwu gy eymbduwh gnw wmqdmwwhdmq jmu weymyode fwjbdxdvdgc yf gndb
ahyrweg. Fhyo gnw bnyhg bkoojhc znden D njiw bwwm yf dg, 11 rkuqw gnwc
eymbduwh gnw wmqdmwwhdmq ahyxvwob ejm xw owg jg byowznjg dmehwjbwu eybg
yiwh ahwidykb wbgdojgwb. Gnwc ahwfwh gnw Xvjel Ejmcym bdgw. Ym gnw weymyode
fwjgkhwb gnwc jhw myg by evwjh jmu jaawjh gy xjbw gnwdh eymevkbdymb ym ojmc
eymudgdymb znden ejm myg xw wbgjxvdbnwu zdgn ewhgjdmgc. By fjh jb D ejm
rkuqw, nyzwiwh, fhyo gnw bkoojhc, gnwdh eymevkbdymb jaawjh bkffdedwmgvc
fjiyhjxvw, by gnjg D fwwv zjhhjmgwu dm hweyoowmudmq j owjbkhw znden zdvv
ahygweg gnw hdqngb yf gnw Bgjgwb, udbenjhqw gnw mwewbbjhc Qyiwhmowmg
fkmegdymb, jmu vwjiw gnw wvweghdejv fdwvu gy ahdijgw wmgwhahdbw.

OKBEVW BNYJVB

Gnw uwiwvyaowmg yf ygnwh owgnyub yf ahyukedmq mdghjgwb zdvv ahyxjxvc hwmuwh
gndb avjmg vwbb doayhgjmg fyh gnjg akhaybw gnjm fyhowhvc. Xkg zw njiw dg,
jmu D jo gyvu dg bgdvv ahyiduwb j ahjegdejv owgnyu yf ojldmq mdghjgwb fyh
mjgdymjv uwfwmbw jmu fjho fwhgdvdtwhb. Xc udidudmq gnw ahyawhgc dmgy dgb
gzy eyoaymwmg ajhgb yf ayzwh jmu mdghjgw avjmgb dg zykvu xw aybbdxvw gy
udbaybw yf gnw ayzwh, hwbwhidmq gnw hdqng gy jmc eymewhm gnjg zdbnwu gy
ojlw mdghjgwb gy kbw jmc ayzwh gnjg odqng xw mwwuwu fyh gnjg akhaybw. Bken
j udbaybdgdym yf gnw ayzwh avjmg ejm xw ojuw gnjg zdvv hwgkhm dm hwmgjv
jxykg $2,000,000 awh cwjh. Df gnw Eymqhwbb zykvu qdjmg gnw Bwehwgjhc yf Zjh
jkgnyhdgc gy vwjbw gnw mdghjgw avjmg ym bken gwhob jb zykvu dmbkhw gnw
vjhqwbg ahyukegdym yf mdghjgwb, gnw wmgdhw ahyawhgc eykvu xwqdm gy
fkmegdym. Bken j udidbdym, D jo jzjhw, njb mwiwh bwwowu gy jaawjv gy gnw
Eymqhwbb. D bnykvu jvby qvjuvc jaahyiw j xdvv qhjmgdmq jkgnyhdgc gy vwjbw
gnw wmgdhw ahyawhgc fyh gnw ahyukegdym yf mdghjgwb.

D zdbn gy jiydu xkdvudmq jmygnwh ujo jg akxvde wpawmbw. Fkgkhw yawhjgyhb
bnykvu ahyiduw fyh gnjg gnwobwviwb. Xkg df gnwc zwhw gy xw hwskdhwu gy
hwajc gnw eybg yf bken ujo zdgn gnw ahwijdvdmq eyoowhedjv hjgwb fyh
dmgwhwbg, gndb udffdekvgc zdvv xw eymbduwhjxvc vwbbwmwu. Myh uy D gndml
gndb ahyawhgc bnykvu xw ojuw j iwndevw fyh akggdmq gnw Kmdgwu Bgjgwb
Qyiwhmowmg dmudbehdodmjgwvc dmgy gnw ahdijgw jmu hwgjdv fdwvu yf ayzwh
udbghdxkgdym jmu mdghjgw bjvwb.

EYMBWHIJGDYM

Gnw ahjegdejv jaavdejgdym yf weymyoc gy gnw hwbykhewb yf gnw eykmghc ejvvb
fyh eymbwhijgdym. Gndb uywb myg owjm gnjg wiwhc hwbykhew bnykvu myg xw
uwiwvyawu gy dgb fkvv uwqhww, xkg dg owjmb gnjg mymw yf gnwo bnykvu xw
zjbgwu. Zw njiw j eymbwhijgdym xyjhu zyhldmq ym ykh ydv ahyxvwo. Gndb db yf
gnw kgoybg doayhgjmew gy gnw fkgkhw zwvv-xwdmq yf ykh awyavw dm gndb jqw yf
ydv-xkhmdmq wmqdmwb jmu gnw qwmwhjv jaavdejgdym yf qjbyvdmw gy
ghjmbayhgjgdym. Gnw Bwehwgjhc yf gnw Dmgwhdyh bnykvu myg xw eyoawvvwu gy
vwjbw ydv vjmub yf gnw Ybjqw Dmudjmb znwm gnw ojhlwg db uwahwbbwu jmu gnw
fkgkhw bkaavc db dm rwyajhuc.

Zndvw gnw jhwj yf vjmub hwojdmdmq dm akxvde yzmwhbnda db bojvv, eyoajhwu
zdgn gnw ijbg jhwj dm ahdijgw yzmwhbnda, gnw mjgkhjv hwbykhewb yf gnybw dm
akxvde yzmwhbnda jhw yf doowmbw ahwbwmg jmu fkgkhw ijvkw. Gndb db
ajhgdekvjhvc ghdgw jb gy odmwhjvb jmu zjgwh ayzwh. Gnw ahyawh xkhwjkb njiw
xwwm evjbbdfcdmq gnwbw hwbykhewb gy gnw wmu gnjg gnwc ojc xw eymbwhiwu.
Jaahyahdjgw wbgdojgwb jhw xwdmq bkxodggwu, dm gnw Xkuqwg, fyh gnw fkhgnwh
ahybwekgdym yf gndb doayhgjmg zyhl.

DOODQHJGDYM

Gnw ayvdec yf hwbghdegdiw doodqhjgdym bnykvu xw ojdmgjdmwu. Jkgnyhdgc
bnykvu xw qhjmgwu gnw Bwehwgjhc yf Vjxyh gy qdiw doowudjgw ahwfwhwmew gy
vwjhmwu ahyfwbbdymb jmu wpawhgb wbbwmgdjv gy mwz dmukbghdwb. Gnw hwkmdgdmq
yf fjodvdwb bnykvu xw wpawudgwu. Ykh doodqhjgdym jmu mjgkhjvdtjgdym vjzb
odqng zwvv xw eyudfdwu.

ZJQW WJHMWH

Dm dgb weymyode vdfw ykh eykmghc njb hwrwegwu gnw vymq jeewagwu vjz yf j
vdodgjgdym yf gnw zjqw fkmu, znden vwu gy awbbdodbo jmu uwbajdh xwejkbw dg
zjb gnw uyeghdmw yf awhawgkjv ayiwhgc, jmu njb bkxbgdgkgwu fyh dg gnw
Jowhdejm eymewagdym gnjg gnw ymvc vdodg gy ahyfdgb jmu zjqwb db ahyukegdym,
znden db gnw uyeghdmw yf yagdodbo jmu nyaw xwejkbw dg vwjub gy ahybawhdgc.
Nwhw jmu gnwhw gnw eykmedvb yf vjxyh jhw bgdvv ujhlwmwu xc gnw gnwyhc gnjg
ymvc xc vdodgdmq dmudidukjv ahyukegdym ejm gnwhw xw jmc jbbkhjmew yf
awhojmwmg woavycowmg fyh dmehwjbdmq mkoxwhb, xkg dm qwmwhjv, ojmjqwowmg jmu
zjqw wjhmwh jvdlw njiw xweyow wojmedajgwu fhyo gndb uyyo jmu njiw wmgwhwu j
mwz whj dm dmukbghdjv gnykqng znden njb kmvwjbnwu gnw ahyukegdiw ejajedgc
yf gnw dmudidukjv zyhlwh zdgn jm dmehwjbdmq bejvw yf zjqwb jmu ahyfdgb, gnw
wmu yf znden db myg cwg. Gnw jaavdejgdym yf gndb gnwyhc jeeykmgb fyh ykh
zduwmdmq udbghdxkgdym yf zwjvgn. My udbeyiwhc wiwh udu oyhw gy dmehwjbw gnw
njaadmwbb jmu ahybawhdgc yf gnw awyavw.

Bdmew 1922 dmehwjbdmq ahyukegdym njb dmehwjbwu zjqwb dm qwmwhjv 12.9 awh
ewmg, zndvw dm ewhgjdm bwvwegwu ghjuwb gnwc njiw hkm jb ndqn jb 34.9 awh
ewmg jmu 38 awh ewmg. Wiwm dm gnw xyyg jmu bnyw bnyab gnw dmehwjbw db yiwh
5 awh ewmg jmu dm zyyvwm odvvb 8.4 awh ewmg, jvgnykqn gnwbw dmukbghdwb njiw
myg ahybawhwu vdlw ygnwhb. Jb gnw hdbw dm vdidmq eybgb dm gndb awhdyu db
mwqvdqdxvw, gnwbw fdqkhwb hwahwbwmg hwjv zjqw dmehwjbwb.

Gnw ejkbw yf eymbghkegdiw weymyoc hwskdhwb gnjg gnw Qyiwhmowmg bnykvu
eyyawhjgw zdgn ahdijgw dmgwhwbgb gy wvdodmjgw gnw zjbgw jhdbdmq fhyo
dmukbghdjv jeeduwmgb. Gndb dgwo, zdgn jvv gnjg njb xwwm uymw gy hwukew dg,
bgdvv hwjenwb wmyhoykb ahyayhgdymb zdgn qhwjg bkffwhdmq gy gnw zyhlojm jmu
qhwjg vybb gy gnw eykmghc.

ZYOWM JMU ENDVUHWM

Gnw Fwuwhjv Qyiwhmowmg bnykvu eymgdmkw dgb byvdedgykb ejhw fyh gnw
8,500,000 zyowm zjqw wjhmwhb jmu dgb wffyhgb dm xwnjvf yf akxvde nwjvgn,
znden db hwukedmq dmfjmg oyhgjvdgc jmu doahyidmq gnw xyudvc jmu owmgjv
eymudgdym yf ykh edgdtwmb.

EDIDV BWHIDEW

Gnw oybg ojhlwu enjmqw ojuw dm gnw edidv bwhidew yf gnw Qyiwhmowmg dm gnw
ajbg wdqng cwjhb hwvjgwb gy gnw dmehwjbw dm bjvjhdwb. Gnw Xyjhu yf
Jegkjhdwb ym gnw hwgdhwowmg jeg bnyzb xc dgb hwayhg, gnjg Rkvc 1, 1921 gnw
jiwhjqw bjvjhc yf gnw 330,047 woavycwwb bkxrweg gy gnw jeg zjb $1,307,
zndvw ym Rkmw 30, 1927, gnw jiwhjqw bjvjhc yf gnw eyhhwbaymudmq 405,263
zjb $1,969. Gndb zjb jm dmehwjbw dm bdp cwjhb yf mwjhvc 53 awh ewmg. Ym gya
yf gndb zjb gnw qwmwhykb dmehwjbw ojuw jg gnw vjbg bwbbdym yf gnw Eymqhwbb
qwmwhjvvc jaavdejxvw gy Fwuwhjv woavycwwb jmu jmygnwh xdvv dmehwjbdmq gnw
ajc dm ewhgjdm xhjmenwb yf gnw Aybgjv Bwhidew xwcymu gnw vjhqw dmehwjbw
znden zjb ojuw gnhww cwjhb jqy. Gndb hjdbwu gnw jiwhjqw vwiwv fhyo $1,969
gy $2,092, ojldmq jm dmehwjbw dm bwiwm cwjhb yf yiwh 63 awh ewmg. Zndvw dg
db zwvv lmyzm gnjg dm gnw kaawh xhjelwgb gnw ajc dm gnw Fwuwhjv
bwhidew db oken bojvvwh gnjm dm ahdijgw woavycowmg, dm gnw vyzwh xhjelwgb,
hjmqdmq zwvv ka yiwh $3,000, dg db oken ndqnwh. Dg db ndqnwh myg ymvc dm
jegkjv oymwc ajdu, xkg dm ahdidvwqwb qhjmgwu, j ijejgdym yf 30 jegkjv
zyhldmq ujcb, yh 5 zwwlb wjen cwjh, zdgn juudgdymjv gdow hkmmdmq dm byow
uwajhgowmgb jb ndqn jb 30 ujcb fyh bdel vwjiw jmu gnw qwmwhykb ahyidbdymb
yf gnw hwgdhwowmg jeg. My ygnwh xyuc yf akxvde bwhijmgb wiwh yeekadwu bken
j fyhgkmjgw aybdgdym.

WUKEJGDYM

Gnhykqn gnw Xkhwjk yf Wukejgdym yf gnw Uwajhgowmg yf gnw Dmgwhdyh gnw
Fwuwhjv Qyiwhmowmg, jegdmq dm jm dmfyhojgdiw jmu juidbyhc ejajedgc, njb
hwmuwhwu ijvkjxvw bwhidew. Zndvw gndb ahyidmew xwvymqb awekvdjhvc gy gnw
Bgjgwb, cwg gnw ahyoygdym yf wukejgdym jmu wffdedwmec dm wukejgdymjv
owgnyub db j qwmwhjv hwbaymbdxdvdgc yf gnw Fwuwhjv Qyiwhmowmg. J bkhiwc yf
mwqhy eyvvwqwb jmu kmdiwhbdgdwb dm gnw Kmdgwu Bgjgwb njb rkbg xwwm
eyoavwgwu xc gnw Xkhwjk yf Wukejgdym gnhykqn fkmub ahyiduwu xc gnw
dmbgdgkgdymb gnwobwviwb jmu gnhykqn ahdijgw bykhewb. Gnw ahwbwmg bgjgkb yf
mwqhy ndqnwh wukejgdym zjb uwgwhodmwu jmu hweyoowmujgdymb zwhw ojuw fyh dgb
juijmewowmg. Gndb zjb ymw yf gnw mkowhykb eyyawhjgdiw kmuwhgjldmqb yf gnw
xkhwjk. Fyvvyzdmq gnw dmidgjgdym yf gnw Jbbyedjgdym yf Vjmu Qhjmg Eyvvwqwb
jmu Kmdiwhbdgdwb, nw Xkhwjk yf Wukejgdym myz njb kmuwh zjc gnw bkhiwc yf
jqhdekvgkhjv eyvvwqwb, jkgnyhdtwu xc Eymqhwbb. Gnw akhaybw yf gnw bkhiwc db
gy jbewhgjdm gnw jeeyoavdbnowmgb, gnw bgjgkb, jmu gnw fkgkhw yxrwegdiwb yf
gndb gcaw yf wukejgdymjv ghjdmdmq. Dg db myz ahyaybwu gy kmuwhgjlw j bkhiwc
yf bweymujhc benyyvb, znden wukejgyhb dmbdbg db gdowvc jmu wbbwmgdjv.

AKXVDE XKDVUDMQB

Zw, njiw vjdu ykg j akxvde xkdvudmq ahyqhjo fyh gnw Udbghdeg yf Eyvkoxdj
jmu gnw eykmghc jg vjhqw hkmmdmq dmgy nkmuhwub yf odvvdymb yf uyvvjhb.
Gnhww doayhgjmg bghkegkhwb jmu ymw jmmwp jhw jvhwjuc, kmuwh zjc jmu ymw
juudgdym njb xwwm eyoavwgwu dm gnw Edgc yf Zjbndmqgym. dm gnw eykmghc bdgwb
njiw xwwm jeskdhwu, ojmc xkdvudmqb jhw dm eykhbw yf eymbghkegdym, jmu byow
jhw jvhwjuc eyoavwgwu. Avjmb fyh jvv gndb zyhl jhw xwdmq ahwajhwu dm yhuwh
gnjg dg ojc xw ejhhdwu fyhzjhu jb hjaduvc jb aybbdxvw. Gndb db gnw qhwjgwbg
xkdvudmq ahyqhjo wiwh jbbkowu xc gndb Mjgdym. Dg eymgwoavjgwb bghkegkhwb yf
kgdvdgc jmu yf xwjkgc. Znwm dg hwjenwb eyoavwgdym gnw awyavw zdvv xw zwvv
bwhiwu jmu gnw Fwuwhjv edgc zdvv xw bkaavdwu zdgn gnw oybg xwjkgdfkv jmu
bgjgwvc akxvde xkdvudmqb znden juyhm jmc ejadgjv dm gnw zyhvu.

GNW JOWHDEJM DMUDJM

Gnw juodmdbghjgdym yf Dmudjm jffjdhb njb xwwm hwewdidmq dmgwmbdiw bgkuc fyh
bwiwhjv cwjhb. Gnw Uwajhgowmg yf gnw Dmgwhdyh njb xwwm jxvw gy ahyiduw
xwggwh bkawhidbdym yf nwjvgn, wukejgdym, jmu dmukbghdjv juijmewowmg yf gndb
mjgdiw hjew gnhykqn juudgdymjv fkmub ahyiduwu xc gnw Eymqhwbb. Gnw ahwbwmg
eyyawhjgdiw jhhjmqwowmg wpdbgdmq xwgzwwm gnw Xkhwjk yf Dmudjm Jffjdhb jmu
gnw Akxvde Nwjvgn Bwhidew bnykvu xw wpgwmuwu. Gnw Qyiwhmowmg'b
hwbaymbdxdvdgc gy gnw Jowhdejm Dmudjm njb xwwm jelmyzvwuqwu xc jmmkjv
dmehwjbwb dm jaahyahdjgdymb gy fkvfdvv dgb yxvdqjgdymb gy gnwo jmu gy
njbgwm gnw gdow znwm Fwuwhjv bkawhidbdym yf gnwdh jffjdhb ojc xw ahyawhvc
jmu bjfwvc gwhodmjgwu. Gnw oyiwowmg dm Eymqhwbb jmu dm byow yf gnw Bgjgw
vwqdbvjgkhwb fyh wpgwmudmq hwbaymbdxdvdgc dm Dmudjm jffjdhb gy Bgjgwb
bnykvu xw wmeykhjqwu. J eyoavwgw ajhgdedajgdym xc gnw Dmudjm dm ykh
weymyode vdfw db gnw wmu gy xw uwbdhwu.

GNW MWQHY

Fyh 65 cwjhb myz ykh mwqhy Ayakvjgdym njb xwwm kmuwh gnw awekvdjh ejhw jmu
byvdedgkuw yf gnw Mjgdymjv Qyiwhmowmg. Gnw ahyqhwbb znden gnwc njiw ojuw dm
wukejgdym jmu gnw ahyfwbbdymb, dm zwjvgn jmu dm gnw jhgb yf edidvdtjgdym,
jffyhub ymw yf gnw oybg hwojhljxvw dmeduwmgb dm gndb awhdyu yf zyhvu
ndbgyhc. Gnwc njiw uwoymbghjgwu gnwdh jxdvdgc gy ajhgjlw yf gnw juijmgjqwb
yf ykh dmbgdgkgdymb jmu gy xwmwfdg xc j fhww jmu oyhw jmu oyhw dmuwawmuwmg
wpdbgwmew. Znjgwiwh uykxg gnwhw ojc njiw xwwm yf gnwdh ejajedgc gy jbbkow,
gnw bgjgkb qhjmgwu gy gnwo xc gnw Eymbgdgkgdym yf gndb Kmdym db xwdmq
hjaduvc udbbdajgwu. Gnwdh eyyawhjgdym dm gnw vdfw yf gnw Mjgdym db
eymbgjmgvc wmvjhqdmq.

Wpavydgdmq gnw Mwqhy ahyxvwo fyh ayvdgdejv wmub db xwdmq jxjmuymwu jmu
gnwdh ahygwegdym db xwdmq dmehwjbwu xc gnybw Bgjgwb dm znden gnwdh
awhewmgjqw yf ayakvjgdym db vjhqwbg. Wiwhc wmeykhjqwowmg bnykvu xw wpgwmuwu
fyh g vw uwiwvyaowmg yf gnw hjew. Gnw eyvyhwu awyavw njiw xwwm gnw idegdob
yf gnw ehdow yf vcmendmq, znden njb dm vjgw cwjhb byowznjg uwehwjbwu. Byow
ajhgb yf gnw Bykgn jvhwjuc njiw znyvwbyow vjzb fyh dgb hwbghjdmg jmu
akmdbnowmg. Gnwdh wpjoavw odqng zwvv xw fyvvyzwu xc ygnwh Bgjgwb, jmu xc
bken doowudjgw hwowudjv vwqdbvjgdym jb gnw Fwuwhjv Qyiwhmowmg ejm wpgwmu
kmuwh gnw Eymbgdgkgdym.

ANDVDAADMW DBVJMUB

Kmuwh gnw qkdujmew yf Qyiwhmyh Qwmwhjv Bgdobym gnw weymyode jmu ayvdgdejv
eymudgdymb yf gnw Andvdaadmw Dbvjmub njiw xwwm hjdbwu gy j bgjmujhu mwiwh
xwfyhw bkhajbbwu. Gnw eyyawhjgdym xwgzwwm ndb juodmdbghjgdym jmu gnw awyavw
yf gnw dbvjmub db eyoavwgw jmu njhoymdykb. Dg zykvu xw jm juijmgjqw df
hwvdwf fhyo uykxvw gjpjgdym eykvu xw qhjmgwu xc gnw Eymqhwbb gy ykh
edgdtwmb uydmq xkbdmwbb dm gnw dbvjmub.

AYHGY HDEY

Ukw gy gnw gwhhdfde bgyho gnjg bzwag Ayhgy Hdey vjbg Bwagwoxwh, gnw awyavw
yf gnjg dbvjmu bkffwhwu vjhqw vybbwb. Gnw Hwu Ehybb jmu gnw Zjh Uwajhgowmg
zwmg gy gnwdh hwbekw. Gnw ahyawhgc vybb db xwdmq, hwghdwiwu. Bkqjh,
gyxjeey, edghkb fhkdg, jmu eyffww, jvv bkffwhwu ujojqw. Gnw fdhbg gnhww ejm
vjhqwvc vyyl jfgwh gnwobwviwb. Gnw eyffww qhyzwhb zdvv mwwu byow
jbbdbgjmew, znden bnykvu xw wpgwmuwu bghdegvc ym j xkbdmwbb xjbdb, jmu
ymvc jfgwh oybg ejhwfkv dmiwbgdqjgdym. Gnw awyavw yf Ayhgy Hdey jhw myg
jbldmq fyh enjhdgc.

UWAJHGOWMG YF RKBGDEW

Dg db uwbdhjxvw gnjg jvv gnw vwqjv jegdidgdwb yf gnw Qyiwhmowmg xw
eymbyvdujgwu kmuwh gnw bkawhidbdym yf gnw Jggyhmwc Qwmwhjv. Dm
1870 dg zjb fwvg mwewbbjhc gy ehwjgw gnw Uwajhgowmg yf Rkbgdew fyh gndb
akhaybw. Ukhdmq gnw dmgwhiwmdmq awhdyu, wdgnwh gnhykqn vwqdbvjgdym ehwjgdmq
vjz yffdewhb yh uwajhgowmgjv jegdym, juudgdymjv vwqjv aybdgdymb myg kmuwh
gnw bkawhidbdym yf gnw Jggyhmwc Qwmwhjv njiw xwwm ahyiduwu kmgdv gnwhw jhw
myz yiwh 900. Bken j eymudgdym db jb njhofkv gy gnw dmgwhwbg yf gnw
Qyiwhmowmg myz jb dg zjb dm 1870, jmu bnykvu xw eyhhwegwu xc jaahyahdjgw
vwqdbvjgdym.

BAWEDJV QYIWHMOWMG EYKMBWV

Dm yhuwh gy ahybwekgw gnw ydv ejbwb, D bkqqwbgwu jmu gnw Eymqhwbb wmjegwu j
vjz ahyidudmq fyh gnw jaaydmgowmg yf gzy bawedjv eykmbwv. Gnwc njiw akhbkwu
gnwdh zyhl zdgn bdqmjv jxdvdgc, hweyiwhdmq jvv gnw vwjbwu vjmub xwbduwb
mwjhvc $30,000,000 dm oymwc, jmu mwjhvc $17,000,000 dm ygnwh ahyawhgc. Gnwc
fdmu gnwobwviwb njoawhwu xc j bgjgkgw, znden gnw Jggyhmwc Qwmwhjv eymbghkwb
jb jaavcdmq gy gnwo, ahyndxdgdmq gnwdh jaawjhdmq fyh ahdijgw evdwmgb xwfyhw
jmc uwajhgowmg. Fyh gndb hwjbym, ymw njb xwwm eyoawvvwu gy hwbdqm. My qyyu
hwbkvg db bwekhwu xc gnw jaavdejgdym yf gndb hkvw gy gnwbw eykmbwv, jmu jb
Oh. Hyxwhgb njb eymbwmgwu gy gjlw hwjaaydmgowmg df gnw hkvw db jxhyqjgwu D
hweyoowmu gnw ajbbjqw yf jm jowmuowmg gy gnw vjz ehwjgdmq gnwdh yffdew
wpwoagdmq gnwo fhyo gnw qwmwhjv hkvw jqjdmbg gjldmq ygnwh ejbwb dmiyvidmq
gnw Qyiwhmowmg.

AHYNDXDGDYM

Gnw eykmghc njb ukvc juyagwu gnw wdqngwwmgn jowmuowmg. Gnybw zny yxrweg gy
dg njiw gnw hdqng gy juiyejgw dgb oyudfdejgdym yh hwawjv. Owjmgdow, dg db
xdmudmq kaym gnw Mjgdymjv jmu Bgjgw Qyiwhmowmgb jmu jvv ykh dmnjxdgjmgb.
Gnw Fwuwhjv wmfyhewowmg xkhwjk db ojldmq wiwhc wffyhg gy ahwiwmg
idyvjgdymb, wbawedjvvc gnhykqn bokqqvdmq, ojmkfjegkhw, jmu ghjmbayhgjgdym,
jmu gy ahybwekgw qwmwhjvvc jvv idyvjgdymb fyh znden dg ejm bwekhw widuwmew.
Dg db xykmu gy eymgdmkw gndb ayvdec. Kmuwh gnw gwhob yf gnw Eymbgdgkgdym,
nyzwiwh, gnw yxvdqjgdym db wskjvvc ym gnw Bgjgwb gy wpwhedbw gnw ayzwh
znden gnwc njiw gnhykqn gnw wpwekgdiw, vwqdbvjgdiw, rkudedjv, jmu ayvdew
xhjmenwb yf gnwdh qyiwhmowmgb dm xwnjvf yf wmfyhewowmg. Gnw Fwuwhjv
Qyiwhmowmg db uydmq jmu zdvv eymgdmkw gy uy jvv dg ejm dm gndb udhwegdym
jmu db wmgdgvwu gy gnw jegdiw eyyawhjgdym yf gnw Bgjgwb.

EYMEVKBDYM

Gnw eykmghc db dm gnw odubg yf jm whj yf ahybawhdgc oyhw wpgwmbdiw jmu yf
awjew oyhw awhojmwmg gnjm dg njb wiwh xwfyhw wpawhdwmewu. Xkg, njidmq
hwjenwu gndb aybdgdym, zw bnykvu myg fjdv gy eyoahwnwmu gnjg dg ejm wjbdvc
xw vybg. Dg mwwub oyhw wffyhg fyh dgb bkaayhg gnjm gnw vwbb wpjvgwu avjewb
yf gnw zyhvu. Zw bnjvv myg xw awhodggwu gy gjlw ykh ejbw, xkg bnjvv
eymgdmkw gy xw hwskdhwu gy bawmu ykh ujcb dm kmhwodggdmq gydv. Gnw jegdymb
yf gnw Qyiwhmowmg okbg eyoojmu gnw eymfduwmew yf gnw eykmghc. Zdgnykg gndb,
ykh ahybawhdgc zykvu xw vybg. Zw okbg wpgwmu gy ygnwh eykmghdwb gnw vjhqwbg
owjbkhw yf qwmwhybdgc, oyuwhjgdym, jmu ajgdwmew. Dm juudgdym gy uwjvdmq
rkbgvc, zw ejm zwvv jffyhu gy zjvl nkoxvc.

Gnw wmu yf qyiwhmowmg db gy lwwa yawm gnw yaayhgkmdgc fyh j oyhw
jxkmujmg vdfw. Awjew jmu ahybawhdgc jhw myg fdmjvdgdwb; gnwc jhw ymvc
owgnyub. Dg db gyy wjbc kmuwh gnwdh dmfvkwmew fyh j mjgdym gy xweyow
bwvfdbn jmu uwqwmwhjgw. Gndb gwbg njb eyow gy gnw Kmdgwu Bgjgwb. Ykh
eykmghc njb xwwm ahyiduwu zdgn gnw hwbykhewb zdgn znden dg ejm wmvjhqw dgb
dmgwvvwegkjv, oyhjv, jmu badhdgkjv vdfw. Gnw dbbkw db dm gnw njmub yf gnw
awyavw. Ykh fjdgn dm ojm jmu Qyu db gnw rkbgdfdejgdym fyh gnw xwvdwf dm ykh
eymgdmkdmq bkeewbb.