Zkrwy aty whmzy mf aty hiza Wmrjuyzz aty Riakmr tiz hmza Xuyzkqyra Tiuqkrj.
Aty lmuhq oryl tkz okrqryzz irq tkz tbsirkad, tkz juyiaryzz irq tkz
wtiuiwayu. Ty tiz hyfa tkz siuo bxmr tkzamud. Ty tiz siqy vbzakwy smuy
wyuaikr irq xyiwy smuy zywbuy. Aty zbuxizzkrj aukcbay xikq am tkz sysmud iz
ty liz cmury iwumzz aty wmrakryra am uyza ia hiza ia tmsy uypyihyq aty
xhiwy ty tyhq kr aty tyiuaz mf aty Isyukwir xymxhy. Cba atkz kz rma aty
mwwizkmr fmu ynayrqyq uyfyuyrwy am aty sir mu tkz lmuo. Kr atkz xuyzyrwy,
ismrj atyzy ltm oryl irq hmpyq tks, atia kz brrywyzziud. Cba ly ltm lyuy
izzmwkiayq lkat tks wmbhq rma uyzbsy amjyatyu aty fbrwakmrz mf mbu mffkwy
lkatmba xibzkrj fmu i smsyra, irq kr tkz sysmud uywmrzywuiakrj mbuzyhpyz am
aty zyupkwy mf mbu wmbraud. Ty kz jmry. Ly uysikr. Ka kz mbu qbad, brqyu
aty krzxkuiakmr mf tkz ynisxhy, am aioy bx aty cbuqyrz ltkwt ty liz
xyuskaayq am hid qmlr, irq am qypyhmx irq zbxxmua aty lkzy xukrwkxhyz mf
jmpyursyra ltkwt ty uyxuyzyrayq.

FMUYKJR IFFIKUZ

Fmu bz xyiwy uykjrz ypyudltyuy. Ly qyzkuy am xyuxyabiay ka ihlidz cd
juirakrj fbhh vbzakwy am matyuz irq uygbkukrj mf matyuz fbhh vbzakwy am
mbuzyhpyz.

Mbu wmbraud tiz mry wiuqkrih xukrwkxhy am sikraikr kr kaz fmuykjr xmhkwd.
Ka kz ir Isyukwir xukrwkxhy. Ka sbza cy ir Isyukwir xmhkwd. Ly iaayrq am
mbu mlr iffikuz, wmrzyupy mbu mlr zauyrjat, irq xumaywa aty krayuyzaz mf
mbu mlr wkakeyrz; cba ly uywmjrkey atmumbjthd mbu mchkjiakmr am tyhx
matyuz, uyzyupkrj am aty qywkzkmr mf mbu mlr Vbqjsyra aty aksy, aty xhiwy,
irq aty syatmq. Ly uyihkey aty wmssmr cmrq mf tbsirkad. Ly orml aty
kryzwixichy hil mf zyupkwy.

Mbu wmbraud tiz qyfkrkayhd uyfbzyq am iqmxa irq uiakfd aty wmpyrira mf aty
Hyijby mf Riakmrz. Ly tipy rma fyha liuuirayq kr izzbskrj aty
uyzxmrzkckhkakyz ltkwt kaz syscyuz tipy izzbsyq. K is rma xumxmzkrj ird
wtirjy kr atkz xmhkwd; rykatyu kz aty Zyriay. Aty krwkqyra, zm fiu iz ly
iuy wmrwyuryq, kz whmzyq. Aty Hyijby ynkzaz iz i fmuykjr ijyrwd. Ly tmxy ka
lkhh cy tyhxfbh. Cba aty Brkayq Zaiayz zyyz rm uyizmr am hkska kaz mlr
fuyyqms irq krqyxyrqyrwy mf iwakmr cd vmkrkrj ka. Ly ztihh qm lyhh am
uywmjrkey atkz cizkw fiwa kr ihh riakmrih iffikuz irq jmpyur mbuzyhpyz
iwwmuqkrjhd.

LMUHQ WMBUA

Mbu fmuykjr xmhkwd tiz ihlidz cyyr jbkqyq cd alm xukrwkxhyz. Aty mry kz aty
ipmkqirwy mf xyusiryra xmhkakwih ihhkirwyz ltkwt lmbhq ziwukfkwy mbu xumxyu
krqyxyrqyrwy. Aty matyu kz aty xyiwyfbh zyaahysyra mf wmraumpyuzkyz cyalyyr
riakmrz. Cd ynisxhy irq cd auyiad ly tipy iqpmwiayq iuckauiakmr. Fmu ryiuhd
25 dyiuz ly tipy cyyr i syscyu mf Aty Tijby Aukcbrih, irq tipy hmrj zmbjta
aty wuyiakmr mf i xyusiryra Lmuhq Wmbua mf Vbzakwy. K is kr fbhh iwwmuq
lkat cmat mf atyzy xmhkwkyz. K fipmu aty yzaichkztsyra mf zbwt i wmbua
krayrqyq am krwhbqy aty ltmhy lmuhq. Atia kz, irq tiz hmrj cyyr, ir
Isyukwir xmhkwd.

Xyrqkrj cyfmuy aty Zyriay kz i xumxmzih atia atkz Jmpyursyra jkpy kaz
zbxxmua am aty Xyusiryra Wmbua mf Krayuriakmrih Vbzakwy, ltkwt kz i ryl irq
zmsyltia qkffyuyra xhir. Atkz kz rma i xiuakzir gbyzakmr. Ka ztmbhq rma
izzbsy ir iuakfkwkih ksxmuairwy. Aty wmbua kz syuyhd i wmrpyrkyra
krzaubsyra mf iqvbzasyra am ltkwt ly wmbhq jm, cba am ltkwt ly wmbhq rma
cy cumbjta. Ka ztmbhq cy qkzwbzzyq lkat yrakuy wirqmu, rma cd i xmhkakwih
cba cd i vbqkwkih syatmq, lkatmba xuyzzbuy irq lkatmba xuyvbqkwy.
Xiuakzirztkx tiz rm xhiwy kr mbu fmuykjr uyhiakmrz. Iz K lkzt am zyy i
wmbua yzaichkztyq, irq iz aty xumxmzih xuyzyraz aty mrhd xuiwakwih xhir mr
ltkwt sird riakmrz tipy ypyu ijuyyq, atmbjt ka sid rma syya ypyud qyzkuy, K
atyuyfmuy wmssyrq ka am aty fipmuichy wmrzkqyuiakmr mf aty Zyriay, lkat aty
xumxmzyq uyzyupiakmrz whyiuhd krqkwiakrj mbu uyfbzih am iqtyuy am aty
Hyijby mf Riakmrz.

UBZZKI

Mbu qkxhmsiakw uyhiakmrz, hiayhd zm hiujyhd krayuubxayq, iuy rml cykrj
uyzbsyq, cba Ubzzki xuyzyraz rmaichy qkffkwbhakyz. Ly tipy ypyud qyzkuy am
zyy atia juyia xymxhy, ltm iuy mbu auiqkakmrih fukyrqz, uyzamuyq am atyku
xmzkakmr ismrj aty riakmrz mf aty yiuat. Ly tipy uyhkypyq atyku xkakichy
qyzakabakmr lkat ir yrmusmbz wtiukad. Mbu Jmpyursyra mffyuz rm mcvywakmr
am aty wiuudkrj mr mf wmssyuwy cd mbu wkakeyrz lkat aty xymxhy mf Ubzzki.
Mbu Jmpyursyra qmyz rma xumxmzy, tmlypyu, am yrayu kram uyhiakmrz lkat
irmatyu uyjksy ltkwt uyfbzyz am uywmjrkey aty zirwakad mf krayuriakmrih
mchkjiakmrz. K qm rma xumxmzy am ciuayu ilid fmu aty xukpkhyjy mf auiqy ird
mf aty wtyukztyq ukjtaz mf tbsirkad. K qm rma xumxmzy am sioy syuwtirqkzy
mf ird Isyukwir xukrwkxhyz. Atyzy ukjtaz irq xukrwkxhyz sbza jm ltyuypyu
aty zirwakmrz mf mbu Jmpyursyra jm.

Cba ltkhy aty fipmu mf Isyukwi kz rma fmu zihy, K is lkhhkrj am sioy pyud
hiujy wmrwyzzkmrz fmu aty xbuxmzy mf uyzwbkrj aty xymxhy mf Ubzzki. Ihuyiqd
yrwmbuijkrj ypkqyrwyz mf uyaburkrj am aty irwkyra lidz mf zmwkyad wir cy
qyaywayq. Cba smuy iuy ryyqyq. Ltyrypyu atyuy ixxyiuz ird qkzxmzkakmr am
wmsxyrziay mbu wkakeyrz ltm lyuy qyzxmkhyq, irq am uywmjrkey atia qyca
wmrauiwayq lkat mbu Jmpyursyra, rma cd aty Weiu, cba cd aty rylhd fmusyq
Uyxbchkw mf Ubzzki; ltyrypyu aty iwakpy zxkuka mf yrskad am mbu
krzakabakmrz kz iciayq; ltyrypyu atyuy ixxyiu lmuoz syay fmu uyxyrairwy;
mbu wmbraud mbjta am cy aty fkuza am jm am aty ywmrmskw irq smuih uyzwby mf
Ubzzki. Ly tipy ypyud qyzkuy am tyhx irq rm qyzkuy am krvbuy. Ly tmxy aty
aksy kz ryiu ia tirq ltyr ly wir iwa.

QYCAZ

Aty wbuuyra qyca irq krayuyza qby fums fmuykjr Jmpyursyraz, ynwhbzkpy mf
aty Cukakzt qyca mf $4,600,000,000, kz icmba $7,200,000,000. K qm rma fipmu
aty wirwyhhiakmr mf atkz qyca, cba K zyy rm mcvywakmr am iqvbzakrj ka kr
iwwmuqirwy lkat aty xukrwkxhy iqmxayq fmu aty Cukakzt qyca. Mbu wmbraud
lmbhq rma lkzt am izzbsy aty umhy mf ir mxxuyzzkpy wuyqkamu, cba lmbhq
sikraikr aty xukrwkxhy atia fkrirwkih mchkjiakmrz cyalyyr riakmrz iuy
hkoylkzy smuih mchkjiakmrz ltkwt krayuriakmrih fikat irq tmrmu uygbkuy
ztmbhq cy qkzwtiujyq.

Mbu Jmpyursyra tiz i hkgbkqiayq whiks ijikrza Jyusird fmu aty ynxyrzy mf
aty iusd mf mwwbxiakmr mf mpyu $255,000,000. Cyzkqyz atkz, aty Sknyq Whiksz
Wmsskzzkmr tipy cyfmuy atys icmba 12,500 whiksz mf Isyukwir wkakeyrz,
ijjuyjiakrj icmba $1,225,000,000. Atyzy whiksz tipy ihuyiqd cyyr uyqbwyq cd
i uywyra qywkzkmr, cba atyuy iuy pihkq whiksz uyiwtkrj lyhh amliuq
$500,000,000. Mbu atmbzirqz mf wkakeyrz lkat wuyqkaz qby atys mf tbrquyqz
mf skhhkmrz mf qmhhiuz tipy rm uyquyzz zipy kr aty iwakmr mf mbu
Jmpyursyra. Atyzy iuy pyud zbczairakih krayuyzaz, ltkwt ka kz aty qbad mf
mbu Jmpyursyra am xumaywa iz cyza ka wir. Atia wmbuzy K xumxmzy am xbuzby.

Ka kz fmu atyzy uyizmrz atia ly tipy i qkuywa krayuyza kr aty ywmrmskw
uywmpyud mf Ybumxy. Atyd iuy yrhiujyq cd mbu qyzkuy fmu aty zaickhkad mf
wkpkhkeiakmr irq aty lyhfiuy mf tbsirkad. Atia ly iuy siokrj ziwukfkwyz am
atia yrq rmry wir qyrd. Mbu qyfyuuyq krayuyza ihmry ismbraz am i skhhkmr
qmhhiuz ypyud qid. Cba uywyrahd ly mffyuyq am ikq lkat mbu iqpkwy irq
wmbrzyh. Ly tipy uykayuiayq mbu qyzkuy am zyy Fuirwy xikq irq Jyusird
uypkpyq. Ly tipy xumxmzyq qkziusisyra. Ly tipy yiuryzahd zmbjta am wmsxmzy
qkffyuyrwyz irq uyzamuy xyiwy. Ly ztihh xyuzypyuy kr lyhh-qmkrj, rma cd
fmuwy, cba cd uyizmr.

FMUYKJR XIXYUZ

Brqyu aty hil aty xixyuz xyuaikrkrj am fmuykjr uyhiakmrz am cy xukrayq iuy
auirzskaayq iz i xiua mf atkz syzzijy. Matyu pmhbsyz mf atyzy xixyuz lkhh
fmhhml.

FMUYKJR ZYUPKWY

Aty fmuykjr zyupkwy mf mbu Jmpyursyra ryyqz am cy uymujirkeyq irq
ksxumpyq.

FKZWIH WMRQKAKMR

Mbu sikr xumchysz iuy qmsyzakw xumchysz. Fkrirwkih zaickhkad kz aty fkuza
uygbkzkay mf zmbrq jmpyursyra. Ly wir rma yzwixy aty yffywa mf lmuhq
wmrqkakmrz. Ly wir rma ipmkq aty krypkaichy uyzbhaz mf aty ywmrmskw
qkzmuqyuz ltkwt tipy uyiwtyq ihh riakmrz. Cba ly ztihh qkskrkzt atyku tius
am bz kr xumxmuakmr iz ly wmrakrby am uyzamuy mbu Jmpyursyra fkrirwyz am i
zywbuy irq yrqbuichy xmzkakmr. Atkz ly wir irq sbza qm. Bxmr atia fkus
fmbrqiakmr uyzaz aty mrhd tmxy mf xumjuyzz irq xumzxyukad. Fums atia zmbuwy
sbza wmsy uyhkyf fmu aty xymxhy.

Atkz kz cykrj, iwwmsxhkztyq cd i quizakw cba muqyuhd uyauyrwtsyra, ltkwt kz
cukrjkrj mbu ynxyrzyz lkatkr mbu syirz. Aty mukjkr mf atkz tiz cyyr aty
qyayuskriakmr mf aty Isyukwir xymxhy, aty sikr zbxxmua tiz cyyr aty wmbuijy
mf atmzy kr ibatmukad, irq aty yffywakpy syatmq tiz cyyr aty Cbqjya Zdzays.
Aty uyzbha tiz krpmhpyq uyih ziwukfkwy cd qyxiuasyra tyiqz, cba ka tiz cyyr
siqy lkatmba fhkrwtkrj. Atkz zdzays kz i hil mf aty Wmrjuyzz. Ka uyxuyzyraz
dmbu lkhh. Ka sbza cy sikraikryq, irq mbjta am cy zauyrjatyryq cd aty
ynisxhy mf dmbu mczyupirwy. Lkatmba i Cbqjya Zdzays atyuy wir cy rm fknyq
uyzxmrzkckhkad irq rm wmrzaubwakpy zwkyrakfkw ywmrmsd.

Atkz juyia wmrwyrauiakmr mf yffmua cd aty iqskrkzauiakmr irq Wmrjuyzz tiz
cumbjta aty ynxyrqkabuyz, ynwhbzkpy mf aty zyhf-zbxxmuakrj Xmza. Mffkwy
Qyxiuasyra, qmlr am atuyy ckhhkmr qmhhiuz. Ka kz xmzzkchy, kr wmrzygbyrwy,
am sioy i hiujy uyqbwakmr kr aty ainyz mf aty xymxhy, ltkwt kz aty zmhy
mcvywa mf ihh wbuaikhsyra. Atkz kz auyiayq ia juyiayu hyrjat kr aty Cbqjya
syzzijy, irq i xumxmzyq xhir tiz cyyr xuyzyrayq kr qyaikh kr i zaiaysyra cd
aty Zywuyaiud mf aty Auyizbud ltkwt tiz sd brgbihkfkyq ixxumpih. K
yzxywkihhd wmssyrq i qywuyizy mr yiuryq krwmsyz, irq fbuatyu icmhkakmr mf
iqskzzkmr, syzzijy, irq rbkzirwy ainyz. Aty isbzysyra irq yqbwiakmrih
pihby mf smpkrj xkwabuyz mbjta rma am cy ainyq. Qkskrkztkrj wtiujyz ijikrza
smqyuiay krwmsyz fums krpyzasyra lkhh iffmuq kssyrzy uyhkyf, ltkhy i
uypkzkmr mf aty zbuainyz lkhh rma mrhd xumpkqy iqqkakmrih smryd fmu wixkaih
krpyzasyra, atbz zaksbhiakrj krqbzaud irq ysxhmdkrj smuy cba lkhh rma
juyiahd uyqbwy aty uypyrby fums atia zmbuwy, irq sid kr aty fbabuy iwabihhd
krwuyizy ka.

Cykrj mxxmzyq am liu ainyz kr aksy mf xyiwy, K is rma kr fipmu mf
ynwyzz-xumfkaz ainyz. I pyud juyia zyupkwy wmbhq cy uyrqyuyq atumbjt
kssyqkiay yriwasyra mf hyjkzhiakmr uyhkypkrj aty xymxhy mf zmsy mf aty
cbuqyr mf ainiakmr. Am uyqbwy liu ainyz kz am jkpy ypyud tmsy i cyaayu
wtirwy.

Fmu zypyr dyiuz aty xymxhy tipy cmury lkat brwmsxhikrkrj wmbuijy aty
auysyrqmbz cbuqyr mf riakmrih irq hmwih ainiakmr. Atyzy sbza cmat cy
uyqbwyq. Aty ainyz mf aty Riakmr sbza cy uyqbwyq rml iz sbwt iz xubqyrwy
lkhh xyuska, irq ynxyrqkabuyz sbza cy uyqbwyq iwwmuqkrjhd. Tkjt ainyz uyiwt
ypyudltyuy irq cbuqyr ypyudcmqd. Atyd jyiu smza tyipkhd bxmr aty xmmu. Atyd
qkskrkzt krqbzaud irq wmssyuwy. Atyd sioy ijukwbhabuy brxumfkaichy. Atyd
krwuyizy aty uiayz mr auirzxmuaiakmr. Atyd iuy i wtiujy mr ypyud rywyzziud
mf hkfy. Mf ihh zyupkwyz ltkwt aty Wmrjuyzz wir uyrqyu am aty wmbraud, K
tipy rm tyzkaiakmr kr qywhiukrj a ryjhywa ka, am xmzaxmry ka, am mczaubwa
ka cd brzmbrq xumxmzihz, kz am cywmsy brlmuatd mf xbchkw wmrfkqyrwy irq
brauby am xbchkw aubza. Aty wmbraud liraz atkz syizbuy am tipy aty ukjta mf
lid mpyu ir matyuz.

Irmatyu uyfmus ltkwt kz bujyra kr mbu fkzwih zdzays kz aty icmhkakmr mf aty
ukjta am kzzby ain-ynysxa zywbukakyz. Aty ynkzakrj zdzays rma mrhd xyuskaz
i hiujy ismbra mf aty lyihat mf aty Rmakmr am yzwixy kaz vbza cbuqyr cba
iwaz iz i wmrakrbih zaksbhira am sbrkwkxih ynauipijirwy. Atkz ztmbhq cy
xumtkckayq cd wmrzakabakmrih isyrqsyra. Ihh aty lyihat mf aty Riakmr mbjta
am wmraukcbay kaz fiku ztiuy am aty ynxyrzyz mf aty Riakmr.

AIUKFF AIL

Aty xuyzyra aiukff hil tiz iwwmsxhkztyq kaz alm sikr mcvywaz. Ka tiz
zywbuyq ir icbrqira uypyrby irq cyyr xumqbwakpy mf ir icmbrqkrj xumzxyukad.
Brqyu ka aty wmbraud tiz tiq i pyud hiujy ynxmua irq ksxmua auiqy. I
wmrzaira uypkzkmr mf aty aiukff cd aty Wmrjuyzz kz qkzabuckrj irq tiusfbh.
Aty xuyzyra hil wmraikrz ir yhizakw xumpkzkmr ibatmukekrj aty Xuyzkqyra am
krwuyizy mu qywuyizy xuyzyra zwtyqbhyz rma kr ynwyzz mf 50 xyu wyrabs am
syya aty qkffyuyrwy kr wmza mf xumqbwakmr ia tmsy irq icumiq. Atkz qmyz
rma, am sd skrq, liuuira i uylukakrj j mf aty ltmhy hil, cba qmyz syir, irq
lkhh cy zm iqskrkzayuyq, atia ltyrypyu aty uygbkuyq krpyzakjiakmr ztmlz
atia krygbihkakyz mf zbffkwkyra ksxmuairwy ynkza kr ird zwtyqbhy, aty xmlyu
am wtirjy atys ztmbhq irq lkhh cy ixxhkyq.

ZTKXXKRJ

Aty yrakuy lyhh cykrj mf mbu wmbraud kz qyxyrqyra bxmr auirzxmuaiakmr cd
zyi irq hirq. Mbu Jmpyursyra qbukrj aty liu iwgbkuyq i hiujy syuwtira fhyya
ltkwt ztmbhq cy auirzfyuuyq, iz zmmr iz xmzzkchy, am xukpiay mlryuztkx irq
mxyuiakmr brqyu wmrqkakmrz ltkwt lmbhq zywbuy alm uyzbhaz: Fkuza, irq mf
xuksy ksxmuairwy, iqygbiay syirz fmu riakmrih qyfyrzy; zywmrq, iqygbiay
zyupkwy am Isyukwir wmssyuwy. Brakh ztkxxkrj wmrqkakmrz iuy zbwt atia mbu
fhyya wir cy qkzxmzyq mf iqpiraijymbzhd brqyu atyzy wmrqkakmrz, ka lkhh cy
mxyuiayq iz ywmrmskwihhd iz xmzzkchy brqyu zbwt xhirz iz sid cy qypkzyq
fums aksy am aksy cd aty Ztkxxkrj Cmiuq. Ly sbza tipy i syuwtira siukry
ltkwt syyaz atyzy uygbkuysyraz, irq ly ztihh tipy am xid aty wmza mf kaz
zyupkwy.

XBCHKW KSXUMPYSYRAZ

Aty aksy tiz wmsy am uyzbsy kr i smqyuiay lid aty mxyrkrj mf mbu
krauiwmizaih liayulidz; aty wmraumh mf fhmmq liayuz mf aty Skzzkzzkxxk irq
mf aty Wmhmuiqm Ukpyuz; aty ksxumpysyra mf aty liayulidz fums aty Juyia
Hioyz amliuq aty Jbhf mf Synkwm; irq aty qypyhmxsyra mf aty juyia xmlyu irq
ripkjiakmr xumvywa mf aty Za. Hiluyrwy Ukpyu, fmu ltkwt yffmuaz iuy rml
cykrj siqy am zywbuy aty rywyzziud auyiad lkat Wiriqi. Atyzy xumvywaz wir
rma ihh cy brqyuaioyr ia mrwy, cba ihh ztmbhq tipy aty kssyqkiay
wmrzkqyuiakmr mf aty Wmrjuyzz irq cy iqmxayq iz fiza iz xhirz wir cy
siabuyq irq aty rywyzziud fbrqz cywmsy ipikhichy. Atkz kz rma krwmsxiakchy
lkat ywmrmsd, fmu atyku riabuy qmyz rma uygbkuy zm sbwt i xbchkw
ynxyrqkabuy iz i wixkaih krpyzasyra ltkwt lkhh cy uyxumqbwakpy, iz
ypkqyrwyq cd aty siuoyq krwuyizy kr uypyrby fums aty Xirisi Wirih. Bxmr
atyzy xumvywaz qyxyrq sbwt fbabuy krqbzaukih irq ijukwbhabuih xumjuyzz.
Atyd uyxuyzyra aty xumaywakmr mf hiujy iuyiz fums fhmmq irq aty iqqkakmr mf
i juyia ismbra mf wtyix xmlyu irq wtyix fuykjta cd bzy mf ripkjiakmr, wtkyf
mf ltkwt kz aty cukrjkrj mf mwyir-jmkrj ztkxz am aty Juyia Hioyz.

Irmatyu xumchys mf ihhkyq wtiuiwayu kz aty zbxyuxmlyu qypyhmxsyra mf aty
Rmuatyizayur Zaiayz, wmrzkqyuiakmr mf ltkwt kz jumlkrj brqyu aty qkuywakmr
mf aty Qyxiuasyra mf Wmssyuwy cd vmkra wmrfyuyrwy lkat aty hmwih
ibatmukakyz.

UIKHUMIQZ

Wukakwkzs mf aty uikhumiq hil tiz cyyr qkuywayq, fkuza, am aty zywakmr
hidkrj qmlr aty ubhy cd ltkwt uiayz iuy fknyq, irq xumpkqkrj fmu xidsyra am
aty Jmpyursyra irq bzy mf ynwyzz yiurkrjz; zywmrq, am aty syatmq fmu aty
iqvbzasyra mf lijy zwihyz; irq atkuq, am aty ibatmukad xyuskaakrj
wmrzmhkqiakmrz.

Ka tiz cyyr yuumrymbzhd izzbsyq atia aty iwa brqyuaioyz am jbiuirayy
uikhumiq yiurkrjz. Aty hil uygbkuyz atia uiayz ztmbhq cy vbza irq
uyizmrichy. Atia tiz ihlidz cyyr aty ubhy brqyu ltkwt uiayz tipy cyyr
fknyq. Am sioy i uiay atia qmyz rma dkyhq i fiku uyabur uyzbhaz kr
wmrfkzwiakmr, irq wmrfkzwiamud uiayz iuy mf wmbuzy brwmrzakabakmrih. Brhyzz
aty Jmpyursyra iqtyuyz am aty ubhy mf siokrj i uiay atia lkhh dkyhq i fiku
uyabur, ka sbza icirqmr uiay siokrj ihamjyatyu. Aty ryl irq ksxmuaira
fyiabuy mf atia xiua mf aty hil kz aty uywixabuy irq uyqkzaukcbakmr mf
ynwyzz uiayz. Aty wmrzakabakmrihkad mf atkz syatmq kz rml cyfmuy aty
Zbxuysy Wmbua fmu iqvbqkwiakmr. Atyku qywkzkmr ztmbhq cy ilikayq cyfmuy
iaaysxakrj fbuatyu hyjkzhiakmr mr atkz zbcvywa. Fbuatyusmuy, aty ksxmuairwy
mf atkz fyiabuy lkhh rma cy juyia kf wmrzmhkqiakmr jmyz kram yffywa.

Aty zyaahysyra mf uikhumiq hicmu qkzxbayz kz i siaayu mf juipy xbchkw
wmrwyur. Aty Hicmu Cmiuq liz yzaichkztyq am xumaywa aty xbchkw kr aty
yrvmdsyra mf wmrakrbmbz zyupkwy cd iaaysxakrj am krzbuy vbzakwy cyalyyr aty
wmsxirkyz irq atyku ysxhmdyyz. Ka tiz cyyr i juyia tyhx, cba kz rma
ihamjyatyu ziakzfiwamud am aty xbchkw, aty ysxhmdyyz, mu aty wmsxirkyz. Kf
i zbczairakih ijuyysyra wir cy uyiwtyq ismrj aty jumbxz krayuyzayq, atyuy
ztmbhq cy rm tyzkaiakmr kr yriwakrj zbwt ijuyysyra kram hil. Kf ka kz rma
uyiwtyq, aty Hicmu Cmiuq sid pyud lyhh cy hyfa fmu aty xuyzyra am xumaywa
aty xbchkw lyhfiuy.

Aty hil fmu wmrzmhkqiakmrz kz rma zbffkwkyrahd yffywakpy am cy ynxyqkakmbz.
Iqqkakmrih hyjkzhiakmr kz ryyqyq jkpkrj ibatmukad fmu pmhbraiud
wmrzmhkqiakmrz, cmat uyjkmrih irq umbay, irq xumpkqkrj Jmpyursyra siwtkryud
am ikq irq zaksbhiay zbwt iwakmr, ihlidz zbcvywa am aty ixxumpih mf aty
Krayuzaiay Wmssyuwy Wmsskzzkmr. Atkz ztmbhq ibatmukey aty wmsskzzkmr am
ixxmkra wmsskaayyz fmu yiwt xumxmzyq jumbx, uyxuyzyrakrj aty xbchkw irq aty
wmsxmryra umiqz, lkat xmlyu am ryjmakiay lkat krqkpkqbih zywbukad tmhqyuz
fmu ir ynwtirjy mf atyku zywbukakyz fmu atmzy mf aty, wmrzmhkqiakmr mr zbwt
ayusz irq wmrqkakmrz iz aty wmsskzzkmr sid xuyzwukcy fmu ipmkqkrj ird
wmrfkzwiakmr irq xuyzyupkrj fiku pihbyz. Ztmbhq atkz xyuskzzkpy
wmrzmhkqiakmr xumpy kryffywakpy ifayu i hkskayq xyukmq, aty ibatmukad mf
aty Jmpyursyra lkhh tipy am cy qkuywahd krpmoyq.

Wmrzmhkqiakmr ixxyiuz am cy aty mrhd fyizkchy syatmq fmu aty sikrayrirwy mf
ir iqygbiay zdzays mf auirzxmuaiakmr lkat ir mxxmuabrkad zm am iqvbza
fuykjta uiayz iz am syya zbwt aysxmuiud wmrqkakmrz iz rml xuypikh kr zmsy
ijukwbhabuih zywakmrz. Wmsxyayra ibatmukakyz ijuyy atia ir yrakuy
uymujirkeiakmr mf aty uiay zaubwabuy fmu fuykjta kz rywyzziud. Atkz ztmbhq
cy muqyuyq ia mrwy cd aty Wmrjuyzz.

QYXIUASYRA MF VBZAKWY

Iz rm uypkzkmr mf aty hilz mf aty Brkayq Zaiayz tiz cyyr siqy zkrwy 1878, i
wmsskzzkmr mu wmsskaayy ztmbhq cy wuyiayq am brqyuaioy atkz lmuo. Aty
Vbqkwkih Wmbrwkh uyxmuaz atia alm smuy qkzaukwa vbqjyz iuy ryyqyq kr aty
zmbatyur qkzaukwa mf Ryl Dmuo, mry kr aty rmuatyur qkzaukwa mf Jymujki, irq
alm smuy wkuwbka vbqjyz kr aty Wkuwbka Wmbua mf Ixxyihz mf aty Ykjtat
Wkuwbka. Hyjkzhiakmr ztmbhq cy wmrzkqyuyq fmu atkz xbuxmzy.

Ka kz qyzkuichy am ynxyqkay aty tyiukrj irq qkzxmzih mf wizyz. I
wmsskzzkmr mf Fyqyuih vbqjyz irq hildyuz ztmbhq cy wuyiayq am uywmssyrq
hyjkzhiakmr cd ltkwt aty xumwyqbuy kr aty Fyqyuih aukih wmbuaz sid cy
zksxhkfkyq irq uyjbhiayq cd ubhyz mf wmbua, uiatyu atir cd zaiabay; zbwt
ubhyz am cy zbcskaayq am aty Wmrjuyzz irq am cy kr fmuwy brakh irrbhhyq mu
smqkfkyq cd aty Wmrjuyzz. Aty Zbxuysy Wmbua ryyqz hyjkzhiakmr uypkzkrj irq
zksxhkfdkrj aty hilz jmpyurkrj uypkyl cd atia wmbua, irq yrhiujkrj aty
whizzyz mf wizyz mf amm hkaahy xbchkw ksxmuairwy am cy zbcvywa am uypkyl.
Zbwt uyfmusz lmbhq ynxyqkay aty auirziwakmr mf aty cbzkryzz mf aty wmbuaz.
Aty iqskrkzauiakmr mf vbzakwy kz hkoyhd am fikh kf ka cy hmrj qyhidyq.

Aty Riakmrih Jmpyursyra tiz rypyu jkpyr iqygbiay iaayrakmr am kaz xukzmr
xumchysz. Ka mbjta am xumpkqy ysxhmdsyra kr zbwt fmusz mf xumqbwakmr iz wir
cy bzyq cd aty Jmpyursyra, atmbjt rma zmhq am aty xbchkw kr wmsxyakakmr
lkat xukpiay cbzkryzz, fmu ihh xukzmryuz ltm wir cy xhiwyq ia lmuo, irq fmu
ltkwt atyd ztmbhq uywykpy i uyizmrichy wmsxyrziakmr, ipikhichy fmu atyku
qyxyrqyraz.

Alm krqyxyrqyra uyfmusiamukyz iuy ryyqyq; mry fmu aty zyjuyjiakmr mf lmsyr,
irq irmatyu fmu aty zyjuyjiakmr mf dmbrj syr zyupkrj atyku fkuza zyrayrwy.

Aty iqskrkzauiakmr mf vbzakwy lmbhq cy fiwkhkaiayq juyiahd cd krwhbqkrj kr
aty Cbuyib mf Krpyzakjiakmr mf aty Qyxiuasyra mf Vbzakwy i Qkpkzkmr mf
Wukskrih Kqyrakfkwiakmr, ltyuy atyuy lmbhq cy wmhhywayq atkz krfmusiakmr
ltkwt kz rml krqkzxyrzichy kr aty zbxxuyzzkmr mf wuksy.

XUMTKCKAKMR

Aty xumtkckakmr isyrqsyra am aty Wmrzakabakmr uygbkuyz aty Wmrjuyzz. irq
aty Xuyzkqyra am xumpkqy iqygbiay hilz am xuypyra kaz pkmhiakmr. Ka kz sd
qbad am yrfmuwy zbwt hilz. Fmu atia xbuxmzy i auyiad kz cykrj ryjmakiayq
lkat Juyia Cukaikr lkat uyzxywa am aty ukjta mf zyiuwt mf tmpyukrj
pyzzyhz. Am xuypyra zsbjjhkrj, aty Wmiza Wiuq ztmbhq cy juyiahd
zauyrjatyryq, irq i zbxxhd mf zlkfa xmlyu cmiaz ztmbhq cy xumpkqyq. Aty
sivmu zmbuwyz mf xumqbwakmr ztmbhq cy ukjkqhd uyjbhiayq, irq ypyud yffmua
ztmbhq cy siqy am zbxxuyzz krayuzaiay auiffkw. Lkat atkz iwakmr mr aty xiua
mf aty Riakmrih Jmpyursyra, irq aty wmmxyuiakmr ltkwt kz bzbihhd uyrqyuyq
cd sbrkwkxih irq Zaiay ibatmukakyz, xumtkckakmr ztmbhq cy siqy yffywakpy.
Fuyy jmpyursyra tiz rm juyiayu syriwy atir qkzuyzxywa fmu ibatmukad irq
wmrakrbih pkmhiakmr mf hil. Ka kz aty qbad mf i wkakeyr rma mrhd am mczyupy
aty hil cba am hya ka cy ormlr atia ty kz mxxmzyq am kaz pkmhiakmr.

ATY RYJUM

Rbscyuyq ismrj mbu xmxbhiakmr iuy zmsy 12,000,000 wmhmuyq xymxhy. Brqyu mbu
Wmrzakabakmr atyku ukjtaz iuy vbza iz ziwuyq iz atmzy mf ird matyu wkakeyr.
Ka kz cmat i xbchkw irq i xukpiay qbad am xumaywa atmzy ukjtaz. Aty
Wmrjuyzz mbjta am ynyuwkzy ihh kaz xmlyuz mf xuypyrakmr irq xbrkztsyra
ijikrza aty tkqymbz wuksy mf hdrwtkrj, mf ltkwt aty ryjumyz iuy cd rm syirz
aty zmhy zbffyuyuz, cba fmu ltkwt atyd fburkzt i sivmukad mf aty pkwaksz.

Ihuyiqd i wmrzkqyuichy zbs kz ixxumxukiayq am jkpy aty ryjumyz pmwiakmrih
auikrkrj kr ijukwbhabuy. Icmba tihf i skhhkmr qmhhiuz kz uywmssyrqyq fmu
syqkwih wmbuzyz ia Tmliuq Brkpyuzkad am tyhx wmraukcbay am aty yqbwiakmr mf
500 wmhmuyq qmwamuz ryyqyq yiwt dyiu. Mr iwwmbra mf aty krayjuiakmr mf
hiujy rbscyuz kram krqbzaukih wyrayuz, ka tiz cyyr xumxmzyq atia i
wmsskzzkmr cy wuyiayq, wmsxmzyq mf syscyuz fums cmat uiwyz, am fmusbhiay i
cyaayu xmhkwd fmu sbabih brqyuzairqkrj irq wmrfkqyrwy. Zbwt ir yffmua kz am
cy wmssyrqyq. Ypyudmry lmbhq uyvmkwy kr aty iwwmsxhkztsyra mf aty uyzbhaz
ltkwt ka zyyoz. Cba ka kz lyhh am uywmjrkey atia atyzy qkffkwbhakyz iuy am
i hiujy ynayra hmwih xumchysz ltkwt sbza cy lmuoyq mba cd aty sbabih
fmucyiuirwy irq tbsir okrqryzz mf yiwt wmssbrkad. Zbwt i syatmq jkpyz sbwt
smuy xumskzy mf i uyih uysyqd atir mbazkqy krayufyuyrwy.

WKPKH ZYUPKWY

Aty sikrayrirwy irq ynayrzkmr mf aty whizzkfkyq wkpkh zyupkwy kz
ynwyyqkrjhd ksxmuaira. Atyuy iuy ryiuhd 550,000 xyuzmrz kr aty ynywbakpy
wkpkh zyupkwy quilkrj icmba $700,000,000 mf dyiuhd wmsxyrziakmr.
Fmbu-fkfatz mf atyzy iuy kr aty whizzkfkyq zyupkwy. Atkz syatmq mf
zyhywakmr mf aty ysxhmdyyz mf aty Brkayq Zaiayz kz yzxywkihhd qyzkuichy fmu
aty Xmza Mffkwy Qyxiuasyra. Aty Wkpkh Zyupkwy Wmsskzzkmr tiz uywmssyrqyq
atia xmzasizayuz ia fkuza, zywmrq, irq atkuq whizz mffkwyz cy whizzkfkyq.
Zbwt iwakmr, iwwmsxirkyq cd i uyxyih mf aty fmbu-dyiu ayus mf mffkwy, lmbhq
brqmbcayqhd cy ir ksxumpysyra. K ihzm uywmssyrq atia aty fkyhq fmuwy fmu
xumtkckakmr yrfmuwysyra cy cumbjta lkatkr aty whizzkfkyq wkpkh zyupkwy
lkatmba wmpyukrj kr aty xuyzyra syscyuztkx. Aty cyza syatmq fmu zyhywakrj
xbchkw zyupiraz kz aty syuka zdzays.

XBCHKW CBKHQKRJZ

Sird mf aty qyxiuasyraz kr Liztkrjamr ryyq cyaayu tmbzkrj fiwkhkakyz. Zmsy
iuy zm wumlqyq atia atyku lmuo kz ksxyqyq, matyuz iuy zm zwiaayuyq atia
atyd hmzy atyku kqyrakad. Ltkhy K qm rma fipmu ia atkz aksy i jyryuih
xbchkw cbkhqkrj hil, K cyhkypy ka kz rml rywyzziud, kr iwwmuqirwy lkat
xhirz ihuyiqd zirwakmryq fmu i brkfkyq irq muqyuhd zdzays fmu aty
qypyhmxsyra mf atkz wkad, am cyjkr aty wiuudkrj mba mf atmzy xhirz cd
ibatmukekrj aty yuywakmr mf atuyy mu fmbu cbkhqkrjz smza bujyrahd ryyqyq cd
ir irrbih ixxumxukiakmr mf $5,000,000.

UYJBHIAMUD HYJKZHIAKMR

Wmmxyuiakmr lkat matyu siukaksy xmlyuz kz rywyzziud fmu wmsxhyay xumaywakmr
mf mbu wmiza liayuz fums xmhhbakmr. Xhirz fmu atkz iuy brqyu lid, cba
ilika wyuaikr ynxyuksyraz fmu uyfbzy qkzxmzih. Syiraksy hilz xumtkckakrj
zxuyiqkrj mkh irq mkh uyfbzy fums pyzzyhz kr mbu mlr ayuukamukih liayuz
lmbhq cy smza tyhxfbh ijikrza atkz syriwy irq ztmbhq cy zxyyqkhd yriwayq.

Hilz ztmbhq cy xizzyq uyjbhiakrj ipkiakmr.

Uypkzkmr kz ryyqyq mf aty hilz uyjbhiakrj uiqkm krayufyuyrwy.

Hyjkzhiakmr irq uyjbhiakmrz yzaichkztkrj hmiq hkryu, am xumpkqy zify
hmiqkrj mf pyzzyhz hyipkrj mbu xmuaz iuy rywyzziud irq uywmqkfkwiakmr mf
mbu ripkjiakmr hilz kz pkaih.

Uypkzkmr mf xumwyqbuy mf aty Fyqyuih Auiqy Wmsskzzkmr lkhh jkpy smuy
wmrzaubwakpy xbuxmzy am atkz qyxiuasyra.

Kf mbu Ihizoir fkztyukyz iuy am cy zipyq fums qyzaubwakmr, atyuy sbza cy
fbuatyu hyjkzhiakmr qywhiukrj i jyryuih xmhkwd irq qyhyjiakrj aty ibatmukad
am sioy ubhyz irq uyjbhiakmrz am ir iqskrkzauiakpy cmqd.

IUSD IRQ RIPD

Fmu zypyuih dyiuz ly tipy cyyr qywuyizkrj aty xyuzmrryh mf aty Iusd irq
Ripd, irq uyqbwkrj atyku xmlyu am aty qirjyu xmkra. Fbuatyu uyqbwakmrz
ztmbhq rma cy siqy. Aty Iusd kz i jbiuirayy mf aty zywbukad mf mbu wkakeyrz
ia tmsy; aty Ripd kz i jbiuirayy mf aty zywbukad mf mbu wkakeyrz icumiq.
Cmat mf atyzy zyupkwyz ztmbhq cy zauyrjatyryq uiatyu atir lyioyryq.
Iqqkakmrih xhiryz iuy ryyqyq fmu aty Iusd, irq iqqkakmrih zbcsiukryz fmu
aty Ripd. Aty qyfyrzyz mf Xirisi sbza cy xyufywayq. Ly lira rm smuy
wmsxyakakpy iusisyraz. Ly lira rm smuy liu. Cba ly lira rm lyioryzz atia
krpkayz ksxmzkakmr. I xymxhy ltm ryjhywa atyku riakmrih qyfyrzy iuy xbaakrj
kr vymxiuqd atyku riakmrih tmrmu.

KRZBHIU XMZZYZZKMRZ

Wmrqkakmrz kr aty krzbhiu xmzzyzzkmrz mr aty ltmhy tipy cyyr jmmq. Atyku
cbzkryzz tiz cyyr uypkpkrj. Atyd iuy cykrj iqskrkzayuyq iwwmuqkrj am hil.
Atia yffmua tiz aty fbhh zbxxmua mf aty iqskrkzauiakmr. Zbwt
uywmssyrqiakmrz iz sid wmrkw fums atyku xymxhy mu atyku jmpyursyraz ztmbhq
tipy aty smza wmrzkqyuiay iaayrakmr.

YQBWIAKMR IRQ LYHFIUY

Mbu Riakmrih Jmpyursyra kz rma qmkrj iz sbwt iz ka hyjkaksiayhd wir qm am
xumsmay aty lyhfiuy mf aty xymxhy. Mbu yrmusmbz siayukih lyihat, mbu
krzakabakmrz, mbu ltmhy fmus mf zmwkyad, wir rma cy wmrzkqyuyq fbhhd
zbwwyzzfbh brakh atyku cyryfkaz uyiwt aty syuka mf ypyud krqkpkqbih. Atkz
kz rma i zbjjyzakmr atia aty Jmpyursyra ztmbhq, mu wmbhq, izzbsy fmu aty
xymxhy aty krypkaichy cbuqyrz mf ynkzayrwy. Atyuy kz rm syatmq cd ltkwt ly
wir ykatyu cy uyhkypyq mf aty uyzbhaz mf mbu mlr fmhhd mu cy jbiuirayyq i
zbwwyzzfbh hkfy. Atyuy kz ir kryzwixichy xyuzmrih uyzxmrzkckhkad fmu aty
qypyhmxsyra mf wtiuiwayu, mf krqbzaud, mf atukfa, irq mf zyhf-wmraumh.
Atyzy qm rma wmsy fums aty Jmpyursyra, cba fums aty xymxhy atyszyhpyz. Cba
aty Jmpyursyra wir irq ztmbhq ihlidz cy ynxuyzzkpy mf zayiqfiza
qyayuskriakmr, ihlidz pkjkhira, am sikraikr wmrqkakmrz brqyu ltkwt atyzy
pkuabyz iuy smza hkoyhd am qypyhmx irq zywbuy uywmjrkakmr irq uyliuq. Atkz
kz aty Isyukwir xmhkwd.

Ka kz kr iwwmuqirwy lkat atkz xukrwkxhy atia ly tipy yriwayq hilz fmu aty
xumaywakmr mf aty xbchkw tyihat irq tipy iqmxayq xumtkckakmr kr riuwmakw
qubjz irq kramnkwiakrj hkgbmuz. Fmu xbuxmzyz mf riakmrih brkfmuskad ly
mbjta am xumpkqy, cd wmrzakabakmrih isyrqsyra irq ixxumxukiay hyjkzhiakmr,
fmu i hkskaiakmr mf wtkhq hicmu, irq kr ihh wizyz brqyu aty ynwhbzkpy
vbukzqkwakmr mf aty Fyqyuih Jmpyursyra i skrksbs lijy hil fmu lmsyr, ltkwt
lmbhq brqmbcayqhd fkrq zbffkwkyra xmlyu mf yrfmuwysyra kr aty krfhbyrwy mf
xbchkw mxkrkmr.

Tipkrj kr skrq atia yqbwiakmr kz xywbhkiuhd i hmwih xumchys, irq atia ka
ztmbhq ihlidz cy xbuzbyq lkat aty hiujyza fuyyqms mf wtmkwy cd zabqyraz irq
xiuyraz, rypyuatyhyzz, aty Fyqyuih Jmpyursyra skjta lyhh jkpy aty cyryfka
mf kaz wmbrzyh irq yrwmbuijysyra smuy fuyyhd kr atkz qkuywakmr. Kf irdmry
qmbcaz aty ryyq mf wmrwyuayq iwakmr cd aty Zaiayz mf aty Riakmr fmu atkz
xbuxmzy, ka kz mrhd rywyzziud am wmrzkqyu aty ixxihhkrj fkjbuyz mf
khhkayuiwd uyxuyzyrakrj i wmrqkakmr ltkwt qmyz rma piud sbwt kr ihh xiuaz
mf aty Brkmr. K qm rma fipmu aty siokrj mf ixxumxukiakmrz fums aty Riakmrih
Auyizbud am cy ynxyrqyq qkuywahd mr hmwih yqbwiakmr, cba K qm wmrzkqyu ka i
fbrqisyraih uygbkuysyra mf riakmrih iwakpkad ltkwt, iwwmsxirkyq cd ihhkyq
zbcvywaz mf lyhfiuy, kz lmuatd mf i zyxiuiay qyxiuasyra irq i xhiwy kr aty
Wickrya. Aty tbsirkaiukir zkqy mf jmpyursyra ztmbhq rma cy uyxuyzzyq, cba
ztmbhq cy wbhakpiayq.

Syuy krayhhkjyrwy, tmlypyu, kz rma yrmbjt. Yrhkjtayrsyra sbza cy
iwwmsxirkyq cd atia smuih xmlyu ltkwt kz aty xumqbwa mf aty tmsy irq mf
uycyhhkmr. Uyih yqbwiakmr irq auby lyhfiuy fmu aty xymxhy uyza krypkaichd
mr atkz fmbrqiakmr, ltkwt aty Jmpyursyra wir ixxumpy irq wmssyrq, cba ltkwt
aty xymxhy atyszyhpyz sbza wuyiay.

KSSKJUIAKMR

Isyukwir krzakabakmrz uyza zmhyhd mr jmmq wkakeyrztkx. Atyd lyuy wuyiayq cd
xymxhy ltm tiq i ciwojumbrq mf zyhf-jmpyursyra. Ryl iuukpihz ztmbhq cy
hkskayq am mbu wixiwkad am iczmuc atys kram aty uiroz mf jmmq wkakeyrztkx.
Isyukwi sbza cy oyxa Isyukwir. Fmu atkz xbuxmzy, ka kz rywyzziud am
wmrakrby i xmhkwd mf uyzaukwayq ksskjuiakmr. Ka lmbhq cy lyhh am sioy zbwt
ksskjuiakmr mf i zyhywakpy riabuy lkat zmsy krzxywakmr ia aty zmbuwy, irq
cizyq ykatyu mr i xukmu wyrzbz mu bxmr aty uywmuq mf riabuihkeiakmr. Ykatyu
syatmq lmbhq krzbuy aty iqskzzkmr mf atmzy lkat aty hiujyza wixiwkad irq
cyza krayrakmr mf cywmskrj wkakeyrz. K is wmrpkrwyq atia mbu xuyzyra
ywmrmskw irq zmwkih wmrqkakmrz liuuira i hkskaiakmr mf atmzy am cy
iqskaayq. Ly ztmbhq fkrq iqqkakmrih zifyad kr i hil uygbkukrj aty kssyqkiay
uyjkzauiakmr mf ihh ihkyrz. Atmzy ltm qm rma lira am cy xiuaioyuz mf aty
Isyukwir zxkuka mbjta rma am zyaahy kr Isyukwi.

PYAYUIRZ

Rm smuy ksxmuaira qbad fihhz mr aty Jmpyursyra mf aty Brkayq Zaiayz atir
aty iqygbiay wiuy mf kaz pyayuirz. Atmzy zbffyukrj qkzickhkakyz krwbuuyq kr
aty zyupkwy sbza tipy zbffkwkyra tmzxkaih uyhkyf irq wmsxyrziakmr. Atyku
qyxyrqyraz sbza cy zbxxmuayq. Uytickhkaiakmr irq pmwiakmrih auikrkrj sbza
cy wmsxhyayq. Ihh mf atkz zyupkwy sbza cy whyir, sbza cy xumsxa irq
yffywakpy, irq ka sbza cy iqskrkzayuyq kr i zxkuka mf aty cumiqyza irq
qyyxyza tbsir zdsxiatd. Kf krpyzakjiakmr uypyihz ird xuyzyra qyfywaz mf
iqskrkzauiakmr mu ryyq Mf hyjkzhiakmr, muqyuz lkhh cy jkpyr fmu aty
kssyqkiay wmuuywakmr mf iqskrkzauiakmr, irq uywmssyrqiakmrz fmu hyjkzhiakmr
ztmbhq cy jkpyr aty tkjtyza xuyfyuyrwy.

Ia xuyzyra atyuy iuy 9,500 piwira cyqz kr Jmpyursyra tmzxkaihz, K uywmssyrq
atia ihh tmzxkaihz cy ibatmukeyq ia mrwy am uywykpy irq wiuy fmu, lkatmba
tmzxkaih xid, aty pyayuirz mf ihh liuz ryyqkrj zbwt wiuy, ltyrypyu atyuy
iuy piwira cyqz, irq atia kssyqkiay zayxz cy aioyr am yrhiujy irq cbkhq ryl
tmzxkaihz am zyupy ihh zbwt wizyz.

Aty Isyukwir Hyjkmr lkhh xuyzyra am aty Wmrjuyzz i hyjkzhiakpy xumjuis
amm ynayrzkpy fmu qyaikhyq qkzwbzzkmr tyuy. Ka kz i wiuyfbhhd siabuyq xhir.
Ltkhy zmsy mf ka K qm rma fipmu, lkat sbwt mf ka K is kr tyiuad iwwmuq, irq
K uywmssyrq atia i smza xikrzaiokrj yffmua cy siqy am xumpkqy uysyqkyz fmu
ird qyfywaz kr aty iqskrkzauiakmr mf aty xuyzyra hilz ltkwt atyku
ynxyukyrwy tiz uypyihyq. Aty iaakabqy mf aty Jmpyursyra amliuq atyzy
xumxmzihz ztmbhq cy mry mf jyryumzkad. Cba K qm rma fipmu aty juirakrj mf i
cmrbz.

WMIH

Aty wmza mf wmih tiz cywmsy brcyiuichd tkjt. Ka xhiwyz i juyia cbuqyr mr
mbu krqbzaukih irq qmsyzakw hkfy. Aty xbchkw lyhfiuy uygbkuyz i uyqbwakmr
kr aty xukwy mf fbyh. Lkat aty yrmusmbz qyxmzkaz kr ynkzayrwy, fikhbuy mf
zbxxhd mbjta rma am cy amhyuiayq. Atmzy uyzxmrzkchy fmu aty wmrqkakmrz kr
atkz krqbzaud ztmbhq brqyuaioy kaz uyfmus irq fuyy ka fums ird wtiujy mf
xumfkayyukrj.

Aty uyxmua mf aty Wmih Wmsskzzkmr lkhh cy cyfmuy aty Wmrjuyzz. Ka wmsxukzyz
ihh aty fiwaz. Ka uyxuyzyraz aty siabuy qyhkcyuiakmrz irq wmrwhbzkmrz mf
aty cyza aihyra irq ynxyukyrwy atia ypyu siqy i riakmrih zbupyd mf aty
xumqbwakmr irq qkzaukcbakmr mf fbyh. K qm rma fipmu Jmpyursyra mlryuztkx mu
mxyuiakmr mf wmih skryz. Aty ryyq kz fmu iwakmr brqyu xukpiay mlryuztkx
atia lkhh zywbuy juyiayu wmrakrbkad mf xumqbwakmr irq juyiayu xbchkw
xumaywakmr. Aty Fyqyuih Jmpyursyra xumcichd tiz rm xyiwyaksy ibatmukad am
uyjbhiay lijyz, xukwyz, mu xumfkaz kr wmih ia aty skryz mu ismrj qyihyuz,
cba cd izwyuaikrkrj irq xbchkztkrj fiwaz ka wir ynyuwkzy juyia krfhbyrwy.

Aty zmbuwy mf aty qkffkwbhad kr aty ckabskrmbz wmih fkyhqz kz aty
krayuskaayrwy mf mxyuiakmr ltkwt wibzyz juyia lizay mf cmat wixkaih irq
hicmu. Atia xiua mf aty uyxmua qyihkrj lkat atkz xumchys tiz sbwt
zkjrkfkwirwy, irq kz zbjjyzakpy mf rywyzziud uysyqkyz. Cd isyrqkrj, aty wiu
ubhyz, cd yrwmbuijkrj juyiayu brkad mf mlryuztkx, irq xmzzkchd cd
xyuskaakrj wmssmr zyhhkrj ijyraz fmu hkskayq qkzaukwaz mr wmrqkakmr atia
atyd iwwyxa iqygbiay uyjbhiakmrz irq jbiuirayy atia wmsxyakakmr cyalyyr
qkzaukwaz cy brhkskayq, qkzaukcbakmr, zamuijy, irq wmrakrbkad mbjta am cy
ksxumpyq.

Aty zbxxhd mf wmih sbza cy wmrzaira. Kr wizy mf kaz xumzxywakpy
krayuubxakmr, aty Xuyzkqyra ztmbhq tipy ibatmukad am ixxmkra i wmsskzzkmr
ysxmlyuyq am qyih lkat ltiaypyu ysyujyrwd zkabiakmr skjta iukzy, am ikq
wmrwkhkiakmr irq pmhbraiud iuckauiakmr, am iqvbza ird ynkzakrj mu
atuyiayryq wmraumpyuzd cyalyyr aty ysxhmdyu irq aty ysxhmdyy ltyr
wmhhywakpy ciujikrkrj fikhz, irq cd wmraumhhkrj qkzaukcbakmr am xuypyra
xumfkayyukrj kr atkz pkaih rywyzzkad. Atkz hyjkzhiakmr kz ynwyyqkrjhd
bujyra, irq yzzyrakih am aty ynyuwkzy mf riakmrih ibatmukad fmu aty
xumaywakmr mf aty xymxhy. Atmzy ltm brqyuaioy aty uyzxmrzkckhkad mf
sirijysyra mu ysxhmdsyra kr atkz krqbzaud qm zm lkat aty fbhh ormlhyqjy
atia aty xbchkw krayuyza kz xiuismbra, irq atia am fikh atumbjt ird smakpy
mf zyhfkztryzz kr kaz zyupkwy kz zbwt i cyauidih mf qbad iz liuuiraz
brwmsxumskzkrj iwakmr cd aty Jmpyursyra.

UYMUJIRKEIAKMR

I zxywkih vmkra wmsskaayy tiz cyyr ixxmkrayq am lmuo mba i xhir fmu i
uymujirkeiakmr mf aty qkffyuyra qyxiuasyraz irq cbuyibz mf aty Jmpyursyra
smuy zwkyrakfkw irq ywmrmskwih atir aty xuyzyra zdzays. Lkat aty ynwyxakmr
mf aty wmrzmhkqiakmr mf aty Liu irq Ripd Qyxiuasyraz irq zmsy skrmu
qyaikhz, aty xhir tiz aty jyryuih zirwakmr mf aty Xuyzkqyra irq aty
Wickrya. Ka kz ksxmuaira atia uymujirkeiakmr cy yriwayq kram hil ia aty
xuyzyra zyzzkmr.

IJUKWBHABUY

Ikqyq cd aty zmbrq xukrwkxhyz iqmxayq cd aty Jmpyursyra, aty cbzkryzz mf
aty wmbraud tiz tiq ir ynauimuqkriud uypkpih. Hmmoyq ia iz i ltmhy, aty
Riakmr kz kr aty yrvmdsyra mf uysiuoichy xumzxyukad. Krqbzaud irq wmssyuwy
iuy atukpkrj. Fmu aty smza aiua ijukwbhabuy kz zbwwyzzfbh, yhypyr zaixhyz
tipkrj ukzyr kr pihby fums icmba $5,300,000,000 alm dyiuz ijm am icmba.
$7,000,000,000 fmu aty wbuuyra dyiu. Cba uirjy wiaahy iuy zakhh hml kr
xukwy, irq zmsy zywakmrz mf aty ltyia iuyi, rmaichd Skrryzmai, Rmuat
Qiomai, irq mr lyza, tipy sird wizyz mf iwabih qkzauyzz. Lkat tkz xumqbwaz
rma zyhhkrj mr i xiukad lkat aty xumqbwaz mf krqbzaud, ypyud zmbrq uysyqd
atia wir cy qypkzyq ztmbhq cy ixxhkyq fmu aty uyhkyf mf aty fiusyu. Ty
uyxuyzyraz i wtiuiwayu, i adxy mf wkakeyrztkx, irq i xbchkw rywyzzkad atia
sbza cy xuyzyupyq irq iffmuqyq ypyud fiwkhkad fmu uyjikrkrj xumzxyukad.

Aty qkzauyzz kz smza iwbay ismrj atmzy ltmhhd qyxyrqyra bxmr mry wumx..
Ltyia iwuyijy liz juyiahd ynxirqyq irq tiz rma dya cyyr zbffkwkyrahd
uyqbwyq. I hiujy ismbra kz uikzyq fmu ynxmua, ltkwt tiz am syya aty
wmsxyakakmr kr aty lmuhq siuoya mf hiujy ismbraz uikzyq mr hirq sbwt
wtyixyu irq sbwt smuy xumqbwakpy.

Rm wmsxhkwiayq zwtysy mf uyhkyf, rm xhir fmu Jmpyursyra fknkrj mf xukwyz,
rm uyzmua am aty xbchkw Auyizbud lkhh cy mf ird xyusiryra pihby kr
yzaichkztkrj ijukwbhabuy. Zksxhy irq qkuywa syatmqz xba kram mxyuiakmr cd
aty fiusyu tkszyhf iuy aty mrhd uyih zmbuwyz fmu uyzamuiakmr.

Krqkuywahd aty fiusyu sbza cy uyhkypyq cd i uyqbwakmr mf riakmrih irq hmwih
ainiakmr. Ty sbza cy izzkzayq cd aty uymujirkeiakmr mf aty fuykjta-uiay
zaubwabuy ltkwt wmbhq uyqbwy wtiujyz mr tkz xumqbwakmr. Am sioy atkz fbhhd
yffywakpy atyuy mbjta am cy uikhumiq wmrzmhkqiakmrz. Wtyixyu fyuakhkeyuz
sbza cy xumpkqyq.

Ty sbza tipy mujirkeiakmr. Tkz wbzamsyu lkat ltms ty ynwtirjyz xumqbwaz m
ty fius fmu atmzy mf krqbzaud kz mujirkeyq, hicmu kz mujirkeyq, cbzkryzz kz
mujirkeyq, irq atyuy kz rm lid fmu ijukwbhabuy am syya atkz brhyzz ka, amm,
kz mujirkeyq. Aty iwuyijy mf ltyia kz amm hiujy. Brhyzz ly wir syya aty
lmuhq siuoya ia i xumfka, ly sbza zamx uikzkrj fmu ynxmua. Mujirkeiakmr
lmbhq tyhx am uyqbwy iwuyijy. Zdzaysz mf wmmxyuiakpy siuoyakrj wuyiayq cd
aty fiusyuz atyszyhpyz, zbxyupkzyq cd wmsxyayra sirijysyra, lkatmba qmbca
lmbhq cy mf izzkzairwy, cba, aty wir rma ltmhhd zmhpy aty xumchys. Mbu
ijukwbhabuih zwtmmhz mbjta am tipy atmumbjt wmbuzyz kr aty atymud mf
mujirkeiakmr irq wmmxyuiakpy siuoyakrj.

Qkpyuzkfkwiakmr kz rywyzziud. Atmzy fiusyuz ltm uikzy atyku hkpkrj mr atyku
hirq iuy rma juyiahd kr qkzauyzz. Zbwt hmirz iz iuy lkzyhd ryyqyq am izzkza
cbdkrj zamwo irq matyu siayukihz am zaiua kr atkz qkuywakmr ztmbhq cy
fkrirwyq atumbjt i Jmpyursyra ijyrwd iz i aysxmuiud irq ysyujyrwd
ynxyqkyra.

Aty uysikrkrj qkffkwbhad kz aty qkzxmzkakmr mf ynxmuaichy ltyia. K qm rma
fipmu aty xyusiryra krayufyuyrwy mf aty Jmpyursyra kr atkz xumchys. Atia
xumcichd lmbhq krwuyizy aty aumbchy cd krwuyizkrj xumqbwakmr. Cba ka zyysz
fyizkchy am xumpkqy Jmpyursyra izzkzairwy am ynxmuaz, irq ibatmukad ztmbhq
cy jkpyr aty Liu Fkrirwy Wmuxmuiakmr am juira, kr kaz qkzwuyakmr, aty smza
hkcyuih ayusz mf xidsyra fmu fiaz irq juikrz ynxmuayq fmu aty qkuywa
cyryfka mf aty fius.

SBZWHY ZTMIHZ

Aty Jmpyursyra kz brqyuaiokrj am qypyhmx i juyia liayu-xmlyu xumvywa ormlr
iz Sbzwhy Ztmihz, mr ltkwt ka tiz ynxyrqyq sird skhhkmr qmhhiuz. Aty lmuo
kz zakhh jmkrj mr. Zbcvywa am aty ukjta am uyaioy kr aksy mf liu, K
uywmssyrq atia atkz xumxyuad lkat i hmwiakmr fmu ibnkhkiud zayis xhira irq
ukjtaz mf lid cy zmhq. Atkz lmbhq yrq aty xuyzyra cbuqyr mf ynxyrzy irq
ztmbhq uyabur am aty Auyizbud aty hiujyza xukwy xmzzkchy am zywbuy.

Ltkhy aty xukwy kz ir ksxmuaira yhysyra, atyuy kz irmatyu wmrzkqyuiakmr
ypyr smuy wmsxyhhkrj. Aty ijukwbhabuy mf aty Riakmr ryyqz i juyiayu zbxxhd
irq hmlyu wmza mf fyuakhkeyu. Atkz kz rml ksxmuayq kr hiujy gbirakakyz. Aty
cyza krfmusiakmr K wir zywbuy krqkwiayz atia xuyzyra syatmqz mf xmlyu
xumqbwakmr lmbhq rma cy ichy xumfkaichd am syya aty xukwy ia ltkwt atyzy
ksxmuaz wir cy zmhq. Am mcaikr i zbxxhd fums atkz liayu xmlyu lmbhq uygbkuy
hmrj irq wmzahd ynxyuksyraiakmr am xyufywa i xumwyzz fmu wtyix xumqbwakmr.
Matyulkzy mbu xbuxmzy lmbhq fikh wmsxhyayhd. Ka zyysz qyzkuichy, atyuyfmuy,
kr muqyu am xumaywa irq xumsmay aty xbchkw lyhfiuy, am tipy iqygbiay
wmpyriraz atia zbwt ynxyuksyraiakmr cy siqy irq wiuukyq mr am zbwwyzz. Aty
juyia iqpiraijy mf hml-xukwyq rkauiayz sbza cy zywbuyq fmu aty qkuywa
cyryfka mf aty fiusyuz irq aty krqkuywa cyryfka mf aty xbchkw kr aksy mf
xyiwy, irq mf aty Jmpyursyra kr aksy mf liu. Kf atkz sikr mcvywa cy
iwwmsxhkztyq, aty ismbra mf smryd uywykpyq fmu aty xumxyuad kz rma i
xuksiud mu sivmu wmrzkqyuiakmr.

Zbwt i zmhbakmr lkhh krpmhpy wmsxhkwiayq ryjmakiakmrz, irq atyuy kz rm
ibatmukad fmu atia xbuxmzy. K atyuyfmuy uywmssyrq atia aty Wmrjuyzz
ixxmkra i zsihh vmkra wmsskaayy am wmrzkqyu mffyuz, wmrqbwa ryjmakiakmrz,
irq uyxmua qyfkrkay uywmssyrqiakmrz.

UYWHISIAKMR

Cd uyizmr mf sird wmraukcbakrj wibzyz, mwwbxiraz mf mbu uywhisiakmr
xumvywaz iuy kr fkrirwkih qkffkwbhakyz, ltkwt kr zmsy wizyz iuy iwbay.
Uyhkyf ztmbhq cy juirayq cd qyfkrkay ibatmukad mf hil ysxmlyukrj aty
Zywuyaiud mf aty Krayukmu kr tkz qkzwuyakmr am zbzxyrq, uyiqvbza, irq
uyizzyzz ihh wtiujyz ijikrza liayu bzyuz. Atkz ltmhy gbyzakmr kz cykrj
wmrzkqyuyq cd ynxyuaz. Dmb lkhh tipy aty iqpiraijy mf aty fiwaz irq
wmrwhbzkmrz ltkwt atyd sid qypyhmx. Atkz zkabiakmr, krpmhpkrj i Jmpyursyra
krpyzasyra mf smuy atir $135,000,000, irq iffywakrj smuy atir 30,000 liayu
bzyuz, kz zyukmbz. Ltkhy uyhkyf ltkwt kz rywyzziud ztmbhq cy juirayq, dya
wmrauiwaz lkat aty Jmpyursyra ltkwt wir cy sya ztmbhq cy sya. Aty
yzaichkztyq jyryuih xmhkwd mf atyzy xumvywaz ztmbhq rma cy icirqmryq fmu
ird xukpiay wmraumh.

TKJTLIDZ IRQ FMUYZAZ

Tkjtlidz irq uyfmuyzaiakmr ztmbhq wmrakrby am tipy aty krayuyza irq zbxxmua
mf aty Jmpyursyra. Ypyudmry kz irnkmbz fmu jmmq tkjtlidz. K tipy siqy i
hkcyuih xumxmzih kr aty Cbqjya fmu aty wmrakrbkrj xidsyra am aty Zaiayz cd
aty Fyqyuih Jmpyursyra mf kaz ztiuy fmu atkz rywyzziud xbchkw ksxumpysyra.
Rm ynxyrqkabuy mf xbchkw smryd wmraukcbayz zm sbwt am aty riakmrih lyihat
iz fmu cbkhqkrj jmmq umiqz.

Uyfmuyzaiakmr tiz ir ksxmuairwy fiu icmpy aty iaayrakmr ka bzbihhd zywbuyz.
I zxywkih wmsskaayy mf aty Zyriay kz krpyzakjiakrj atkz ryyq, irq K ztihh
lyhwmsy i wmrzaubwakpy xmhkwd cizyq mr atyku uyxmua.

Ka kz 100 dyiuz zkrwy mbu wmbraud irrmbrwyq aty Smrumy qmwaukry. Atkz
xukrwkxhy tiz cyyr ypyu zkrwy, irq kz rml, mry mf aty sikr fmbrqiakmrz mf
mbu fmuykjr uyhiakmrz. Ka sbza cy sikraikryq. Cba kr sikraikrkrj ka ly sbza
rma cy fmujyafbh atia i juyia wtirjy tiz aioyr xhiwy. Ly iuy rm hmrjyu i
lyio Riakmr, atkrokrj sikrhd mf qyfyrzy, quyiqkrj fmuykjr ksxmzkakmr. Ly
iuy juyia irq xmlyufbh. Ryl xmlyuz cukrj ryl uyzxmrzkckhkakyz. Mbu qkaad
atyr liz am xumaywa mbuzyhpyz. Iqqyq am atia, mbu qbad rml kz am tyhx jkpy
zaickhkad am aty lmuhq. Ly lira kqyihkzs. Ly lira atia pkzkmr ltkwt hkfaz
syr irq riakmrz icmpy atyszyhpyz. Atyzy iuy pkuabyz cd uyizmr mf atyku mlr
syuka. Cba atyd sbza rma cy whmkzayuyq; atyd sbza rma cy ksxuiwakwih; atyd
sbza rma cy kryffywakpy.

Aty lmuhq tiz tiq yrmbjt mf aty wbuzy mf tiauyq irq zyhfkztryzz, mf
qyzaubwakmr irq liu. Ka tiz tiq yrmbjt mf aty lumrjfbh bzy mf siayukih
xmlyu. Fmu aty tyihkrj mf aty riakmrz atyuy sbza cy jmmq lkhh irq wtiukad,
wmrfkqyrwy irq xyiwy. Aty aksy tiz wmsy fmu i smuy xuiwakwih bzy mf smuih
xmlyu, irq smuy uyhkirwy bxmr aty xukrwkxhy atia ukjta sioyz kaz mlr skjta.
Mbu ibatmukad ismrj aty riakmrz sbza cy uyxuyzyrayq cd vbzakwy irq syuwd.
Ka kz rywyzziud rma mrhd am tipy fikat, cba am sioy ziwukfkwyz fmu mbu
fikat. Aty zxkukabih fmuwyz mf aty lmuhq sioy ihh kaz fkrih qyayuskriakmrz.
Ka kz lkat atyzy pmkwyz atia Isyukwi ztmbhq zxyio. Ltyrypyu atyd qywhiuy i
ukjtaymbz xbuxmzy atyuy ryyq cy rm qmbca atia atyd lkhh cy tyiuq. Isyukwi
tiz aioyr tyu xhiwy kr aty lmuhq iz i Uyxbchkw--fuyy, krqyxyrqyra,
xmlyufbh. Aty cyza zyupkwy atia wir cy uyrqyuyq am tbsirkad kz aty
izzbuirwy atia atkz xhiwy lkhh cy sikraikryq.