Fl fwu Klsrmuvv lp fwu Esbfun Vfyfuv:

Fwu hmuvusf vfyfu lp fwu Esbls, ehls dwbkw bf bv kevfloymg plm fwu
Hmuvbnusf fl muhlmf fl fwu Klsrmuvv esnum fwu hmlqbvblsv lp fwu
Klsvfbfefbls, bv vekw fwyf bf oyg zu murymnun dbfw usklemyruousf ysn
vyfbvpykfbls zg uqumg Youmbkys. Lem klesfmg bv yaolvf esbieu bs bfv yzbabfg
fl nbvkwymru peaag ysn hmlohfag yaa bfv lzabryfblsv yf wlou ysn yzmlyn, ysn
hmlqbnu plm yaa bfv bswyzbfysfv ys bskmuyvu bs oyfumbya muvlemkuv, bs
bsfuaaukfeya qbrlm ysn bs olmya hldum. Fwu Syfbls wlanv y hlvbfbls
esvemhyvvun bs yaa plmoum weoys ujhumbusku. Fwbv nluv slf ouys fwyf du nl
slf wyqu ysg hmlzauov. Bf bv uauousfymg fwyf fwu bskmuyvbsr zmuynfw lp lem
ujhumbusku sukuvvymbag bskmuyvuv fwu hmlzauov lp lem syfblsya abpu. Zef bf
nluv ouys fwyf bp yaa dbaa zef yhhag lemvuaquv bsnevfmblevag ysn wlsuvfag,
du wyqu yohau hldumv dbfw dwbkw fl ouuf lem hmlzauov ysn hmlqbnu plm B wubm
vhuung vlaefbls. B nl slf hmlpuvv fwyf du kys vukemu ys umy lp humpukfbls
bs weoys ujbvfusku, zef du kys hmlqbnu ys umy lp huyku ysn hmlvhumbfg,
yffusnun dbfw pmuunlo ysn tevfbku ysn oynu olmu ysn olmu vyfbvpgbsr zg fwu
obsbvfmyfblsv lp fwu kwymbfbuv ysn weoysbfbuv lp abpu.

Lem nlouvfbk hmlzauov ymu plm fwu olvf hymf uklslobk. Du wyqu lem uslmolev
nuzf fl hyg, ysn du ymu hygbsr bf. Du wyqu fwu wbrw klvf lp rlqumsousf fl
nbobsbvw, ysn du ymu nbobsbvwbsr bf. Du wyqu y wuyqg zemnus lp fyjyfbls fl
muneku, ysn du ymu munekbsr bf. Zef dwbau muoymxyzau hmlrmuvv wyv zuus oynu
bs fwuvu nbmukfblsv, fwu dlmx bv guf pym pmlo ykklohabvwun. Du vfbaa ldu
lqum $21,000,000,000, fwu klvf lp fwu Syfblsya Rlqumsousf bv vfbaa yzlef
$3,500,000,000, ysn fwu syfblsya fyjuv vfbaa yolesf fl yzlef $27 plm uykw
lsu lp lem bswyzbfysfv. Fwumu guf ujbvfv fwbv uslmolev pbuan plm fwu
yhhabkyfbls lp uklslog.

Bs og lhbsbls fwu Rlqumsousf kys nl olmu fl muoung fwu uklslobk baav lp fwu
hulhau zg y vgvfuo lp mbrbn uklslog bs hezabk ujhusnbfemu fwys kys zu
ykklohabvwun fwmlerw ysg lfwum ykfbls. Fwu klvfv lp lem syfblsya ysn alkya
rlqumsousfv klozbsun sld vfysn yf y veo kalvu fl $100 plm uykw bswyzbfysf
lp fwu aysn. Y abffau auvv fwys lsu-fwbmn lp fwbv bv muhmuvusfun zg
syfblsya ujhusnbfemu, ysn y abffau olmu fwys fdl-fwbmnv zg alkya
ujhusnbfemu. Bf bv ys lobslev pykf fwyf lsag fwu Syfblsya Rlqumsousf bv
munekbsr bfv nuzf. Lfwumv ymu bskmuyvbsr fwubmv yf yzlef $1,000,000,000
uykw guym. Fwu nuhmuvvbls fwyf lqumfllx zevbsuvv, fwu nbvyvfum ujhumbuskun
bs yrmbkeafemu, fwu aykx lp uohalgousf ysn fwu fummbpbk vwmbsxyru bs yaa
qyaeuv dwbkw lem klesfmg ujhumbuskun bs y olvf ykefu plmo bs 1920, muveafun
bs sl voyaa ouyvemu pmlo fwu hmlwbzbfbqu fyjuv dwbkw dumu fwus auqbun ls
yaa hmlnekfbqu upplmf. Fwu uvfyzabvwousf lp y vgvfuo lp nmyvfbk uklslog bs
hezabk ujhusnbfemu, dwbkw wyv usyzaun ev fl hyg lpp yzlef lsu-pbpfw lp fwu
syfblsya nuzf vbsku 1919, ysn yaolvf kef bs fdl fwu syfblsya fyj zemnus
vbsku 1921, wyv zuus lsu lp fwu oybs kyevuv bs muuvfyzabvwbsr y hmlvhumbfg
dwbkw wyv klou fl bskaenu dbfwbs bfv zusupbfv yaolvf uqumg lsu lp lem
bswyzbfysfv. Uklslog muykwuv uqumgdwumu. Bf kymmbuv y zauvvbsr fl
uqumgzlng.

Fwu pyaaykg lp fwu kaybo fwyf fwu klvfv lp rlqumsousf ymu zlmsu zg fwu mbkw
ysn fwlvu dwl oyxu y nbmukf klsfmbzefbls fl fwu Syfblsya Fmuyvemg kys slf
zu fll lpfus ujhlvun. Sl vgvfuo wyv zuus nuqbvun, B nl slf fwbsx ysg vgvfuo
klean zu nuqbvun, esnum dwbkw ysg humvls abqbsr bs fwbv klesfmg klean
uvkyhu zubsr yppukfun zg fwu klvf lp lem rlqumsousf. Bf wyv y nbmukf uppukf
zlfw ehls fwu myfu ysn fwu hemkwyvbsr hldum lp dyruv. Bf bv puaf bs fwu
hmbku lp fwlvu hmbou sukuvvbfbuv lp ujbvfusku, plln, kalfwbsr, peua ysn
vwuafum. Bf dlean yhhuym fl zu uauousfymg fwyf fwu olmu fwu Rlqumsousf
ujhusnv fwu olmu bf oevf muiebmu uqumg hmlnekum fl klsfmbzefu lef lp wbv
hmlnekfbls fl fwu Hezabk Fmuyvemg, ysn fwu auvv wu dbaa wyqu plm wbv lds
zusupbf. Fwu klsfbsebsr klvfv lp hezabk ynobsbvfmyfbls kys zu ouf bs lsag
lsu dyg--zg fwu dlmx lp fwu hulhau. Fwu wbrwum fwug zuklou, fwu olmu fwu
hulhau oevf dlmx plm fwu Rlqumsousf. Fwu auvv fwug ymu, fwu olmu fwu hulhau
kys dlmx plm fwuovuaquv.

Fwu hmuvusf uvfboyfun oymrbs zufduus hezabk mukubhfv ysn ujhusnbfemuv plm
fwbv pbvkya guym bv qumg voyaa. Humwyhv fwu olvf bohlmfysf dlmx fwyf fwbv
vuvvbls lp fwu Klsrmuvv kys nl bv fl klsfbseu y hlabkg lp uklslog ysn
pemfwum muneku fwu klvf lp rlqumsousf, bs lmnum fwyf du oyg wyqu y
munekfbls lp fyjuv plm fwu sujf pbvkya guym. Slfwbsr bv olmu abxuag fl
hmlneku fwyf hezabk klspbnusku dwbkw bv fwu plmumessum ysn fwu oybsvfyg lp
hmlvhumbfg, usklemyru ysn usaymru zevbsuvv lhhlmfesbfg dbfw yohau
lhhlmfesbfg plm uohalgousf yf rlln dyruv, hmlqbnu y aymrum oymxuf plm
yrmbkeafemya hmlnekfv, ysn hef lem klesfmg bs y vfmlsrum hlvbfbls fl zu
yzau fl ouuf fwu dlman klohufbfbls bs fmynu, fwys y klsfbsebsr hlabkg lp
uklslog. Lp klemvu sukuvvymg klvfv oevf zu ouf, hmlhum peskfblsv lp fwu
Rlqumsousf humplmoun, ysn klsvfysf bsquvfousfv plm kyhbfya ykklesf ysn
muhmlnekfbqu upplmf oevf zu kymmbun ls zg lem qymblev nuhymfousfv. Zef fwu
hulhau oevf xsld fwyf fwubm Rlqumsousf bv haykbsr ehls fwuo sl essukuvvymg
zemnus.

FYJUV

Uqumglsu nuvbmuv y munekfbls lp fyjuv, ysn fwumu bv y rmuyf hmuhlsnumysku
lp vusfbousf bs pyqlm lp fyjyfbls muplmo. Dwus B yhhmlqun fwu hmuvusf fyj
ayd, B vfyfun hezabkag fwyf B nbn vl bs vhbfu lp kumfybs hmlqbvblsv dwbkw B
zuabuqun esdbvu ysn wymopea. Lsu lp fwu olvf raymbsr lp fwuvu dyv fwu
oyxbsr hezabk lp fwu yolesfv yvvuvvun yrybsvf nbppumusf bsklou-fyj hygumv.
Yafwlerw fwyf nyoyru wyv sld zuus nlsu, B zuabuqu bfv klsfbseyfbls fl zu
nufmbousfya Fl fwu hezabk duapymu ysn zlesn fl nukmuyvu hezabk muquseuv, vl
fwyf bf lerwf fl zu muhuyaun.

Ysgzlng kys muneku fyjuv, zef bf bv slf vl uyvg fl vfysn bs fwu ryh ysn
muvbvf fwu hyvvyru lp bskmuyvbsr yhhmlhmbyfbls zbaav dwbkw dlean oyxu fyj
munekfbls bohlvvbzau. Bf dbaa zu qumg uyvg fl ouyvemu fwu vfmusrfw lp fwu
yffykwousf fl munekun fyjyfbls zg fwu hldum dbfw dwbkw bskmuyvun
yhhmlhmbyfblsv ymu muvbvfun. Bp yf fwu kalvu lp fwu hmuvusf vuvvbls fwu
Klsrmuvv wyv xuhf dbfwbs fwu zenruf dwbkw B hmlhlvu fl hmuvusf, bf dbaa
fwus zu hlvvbzau fl wyqu y olnumyfu yolesf lp fyj munekfbls ysn yaa fwu fyj
muplmo fwyf fwu Klsrmuvv oyg dbvw plm nembsr fwu sujf pbvkya guym. Fwu
klesfmg bv sld puuabsr fwu nbmukf vfboeaev dwbkw kyou pmlo fwu hyvvyru lp
fwu ayvf muquseu zbaa, ysn esnum fwu yvvemysku lp y muyvlsyzau vgvfuo lp
fyjyfbls fwumu bv uqumg hmlvhukf lp ys umy lp hmlvhumbfg lp eshmukunusfun
hmlhlmfblsv. Zef bf dlean zu bnau fl ujhukf ysg vekw muveafv esauvv
zevbsuvv kys klsfbseu pmuu pmlo ujkuvv hmlpbfv fyjyfbls ysn zu ykklmnun y
vgvfuo lp vemfyjuv yf myfuv dwbkw wyqu plm fwubm lztukf slf fwu hesbvwousf
lp vekkuvv lm fwu nbvklemyruousf lp zevbsuvv, zef fwu hmlnekfbls lp fwu
rmuyfuvf yolesf lp muquseu pmlo aymru bsklouv. B yo klsqbskun fwyf fwu
aymrum bsklouv lp fwu klesfmg dlean ykfeyaag gbuan olmu muquseu fl fwu
Rlqumsousf bp fwu zyvbv lp fyjyfbls dumu vkbusfbpbkyaag muqbvun nldsdymn.
Olmulqum fwu uppukf lp fwu hmuvusf oufwln lp fwbv fyjyfbls bv fl bskmuyvu
fwu klvf lp bsfumuvf ls hmlnekfbqu usfumhmbvu ysn fl bskmuyvu fwu zemnus
lp musf. Bf bv yaflrufwum abxuag fwyf vekw munekfbls dlean vl usklemyru ysn
vfboeayfu bsquvfousf fwyf bf dlean pbmoag uvfyzabvw lem klesfmg bs fwu
uklslobk auynumvwbh lp fwu dlman.

DYFUMDYGV

Ouysfbou lem bsfumsya nuqualhousf vwlean rl ls. Hmlqbvbls vwlean zu oynu
plm palln klsfmla lp vekw mbqumv yv fwu Obvvbvvbhhb ysn fwu Klalmynl, ysn
plm fwu lhusbsr eh lp lem bsaysn dyfumdygv fl klooumku. Klsvbnumyfbls bv
neu fl fwu hmltukf lp zuffum syqbryfbls pmlo fwu Rmuyf Ayxuv fl fwu Reap.
Uqumg upplmf bv zubsr oynu fl hmlolfu ys yrmuuousf dbfw Kysyny fl zeban
fwu, Vf. Aydmusku dyfumdyg. Fwumu ymu husnbsr zuplmu fwu Klsrmuvv zbaav plm
pemfwum nuqualhousf lp fwu Obvvbvvbhhb Zyvbs, plm fwu fyxbsr lqum lp fwu
Kyhu Kln Kysya bs ykklmnysku dbfw y olmya lzabryfbls dwbkw vuuov fl wyqu
zuus bskemmun nembsr fwu dym, ysn plm fwu bohmlquousf lp wymzlmv ls zlfw
fwu Hykbpbk ysn fwu Yfaysfbk klyvfv. Dwbau fwbv ayvf vwlean zu nbquvfun lp
vlou lp bfv hmltukfv ysn du oevf hmlkuun valdag, fwuvu zbaav bs rusumya
wyqu og yhhmlqya. Vekw dlmxv ymu hmlnekfbqu lp duyafw ysn bs fwu alsr mes
fusn fl y munekfbls lp fwu fyj zemnus.

MUKAYOYFBLS

Lem klesfmg wyv y duaa nupbsun hlabkg lp mukayoyfbls uvfyzabvwun esnum
vfyfeflmg yefwlmbfg. Fwbv hlabkg vwlean zu klsfbseun ysn oynu y
vuap-vevfybsbsr ykfbqbfg ynobsbvfumun bs y oyssum fwyf dbaa ouuf alkya
muiebmuousfv ysn zmbsr lem ysn aysnv bsfl y hmlpbfyzau vfyfu lp keafbqyfbls
yv pyvf yv fwumu bv y oymxuf plm fwubm hmlnekfv. Aurbvayfbls bv husnbsr
zyvun ls fwu muhlmf lp fwu Pykf Pbsnbsr Kloobvvbls plm fwu hmlhum muabup lp
fwlvu suunbsr ujfusvbls lp fbou bs dwbkw fl ouuf fwubm hygousfv ls
bmmbryfun aysn, ysn plm ynnbfblsya yousnousfv ysn muplmov lp lem
mukayoyfbls aydv, dwbkw ymu yaa ujkuunbsrag bohlmfysf ysn vwlean zu usykfun
yf lsku.

Sl olmu bohlmfysf nuqualhousf wyv fyxus hayku bs fwu ayvf guym fwys fwu
zurbssbsr lp y muvflmyfbls lp yrmbkeafemu fl y hmlvhumlev klsnbfbls. Du
oevf humobf sl nbqbvbls lp kayvvuv bs fwbv klesfmg, dbfw lsu lkkehyfbls
vfmbqbsr fl vukemu ynqysfyru lqum yslfwum. Uykw oevf hmlkuun esnum lhus
lhhlmfesbfbuv ysn dbfw y pybm hmlvhukf lp uklslobk uieyabfg. Fwu Rlqumsousf
kys slf vekkuvvpeaag bsvemu hmlvhumbfg lm pbj hmbkuv zg aurbvayfbqu pbyf.
Uqumg zevbsuvv wyv bfv mbvx ysn bfv fbouv lp nuhmuvvbls. Bf bv duaa xslds
fwyf bs fwu alsr mes fwumu dbaa zu y olmu uqus hmlvhumbfg ysn y olmu
vyfbvpykflmg mysru lp hmbkuv esnum fwu syfemya dlmxbsr lef lp uklslobk aydv
fwys dwus fwu Rlqumsousf esnumfyxuv fwu ymfbpbkbya vehhlmf lp oymxufv ysn
bsnevfmbuv. Vfbaa du kys vl lmnum lem yppybmv, vl hmlfukf lem lds hulhau
pmlo plmubrs klohufbfbls, vl ymmysru lem syfblsya pbsyskuv, vl ynobsbvfum
lem olsufymg vgvfuo, vl hmlqbnu plm fwu ujfusvbls lp kmunbfv, vl bohmlqu
oufwlnv lp nbvfmbzefbls, yv fl hmlqbnu y zuffum dlmxbsr oykwbsumg plm fwu
fmysvykfbls lp fwu zevbsuvv lp fwu Syfbls dbfw fwu auyvf hlvvbzau pmbkfbls
ysn alvv. Fwu Rlqumsousf wyv zuus klsvfysfag bskmuyvbsr bfv upplmfv bs
fwuvu nbmukfblsv plm fwu muabup ysn humoysusf uvfyzabvwousf lp yrmbkeafemu
ls y vlesn ysn uieya zyvbv dbfw lfwum zevbsuvv.

Bf bv uvfboyfun fwyf fwu qyaeu lp fwu kmlhv plm fwbv wymquvf guym oyg muykw
$13,000,000,000, dwbkw bv ys bskmuyvu lp lqum $3,000,000,000 bs fwmuu
guymv. Bf klohymuv dbfw $7,100,000,000 bs 1913, ysn bp du oyxu nunekfbls
pmlo fwu pbremuv lp 1924 plm fwu klohymyfbquag nukmuyvun qyaeu lp fwu
nlaaym, fwu gbuan fwbv guym vfbaa ujkuunv 1913 bs hemkwyvbsr hldum zg lqum
$1,000,000,000, ysn bs fwbv bsfumqya fwumu wyv zuus sl bskmuyvu bs fwu
seozum lp pymoumv. Olvfag zg wbv lds upplmf fwu pymoum wyv nukmuyvun fwu
klvf lp hmlnekfbls. Y oymxun bskmuyvu bs fwu hmbku lp wbv hmlnekfv ysn vlou
nukmuyvu bs fwu hmbku lp wbv vehhabuv wyv zmlerwf wbo yzlef fl y hymbfg
dbfw fwu muvf lp fwu Syfbls. Fwu kmlh ymuy lp fwbv vuyvls bv uvfboyfun yf
370,000,000 ykmuv, dwbkw bv y nukabsu lp 3,000,000 ykmuv pmlo ayvf guym,
ysn 6,000,000 ykmuv pmlo 1919. Fwbv wyv zuus y slmoya ysn syfemya
yhhabkyfbls lp uklslobk aydv, dwbkw wyv haykun yrmbkeafemu ls y plesnyfbls
dwbkw bv esnusbyzag vlesn ysn zurbssbsr fl zu vyfbvpykflmg.

Y nukmuyvu bs fwu dlman vehhag lp dwuyf wyv muveafun bs y qumg aymru
bskmuyvu bs fwu hmbku lp fwyf kloolnbfg. Fwu hlvbfbls lp yaa yrmbkeafemya
hmlnekfv bsnbkyfuv y zuffum zyayskun vehhag, zef du kys slf guf klskaenu
fwyf yrmbkeafemu bv muklqumun pmlo fwu uppukfv lp fwu dym humbln lm fwyf bf
bv humoysusfag ls y hmlvhumlev zyvbv. Fwu kyffau bsnevfmg wyv slf guf
muklqumun ysn bs vlou vukfblsv wyv zuus veppumbsr pmlo nmg duyfwum. Uqumg
upplmf oevf zu oynu zlfw zg Rlqumsousf ykfbqbfg ysn zg hmbqyfu yruskbuv fl
muvflmu ysn oybsfybs yrmbkeafemu fl y klohaufu slmoya muayfblsvwbh dbfw
lfwum bsnevfmbuv.

Bf dyv ls ykklesf lp hyvf nuhmuvvbls, ysn bs vhbfu lp hmuvusf olmu
usklemyrbsr klsnbfblsv, fwyf B wyqu yvvuozaun ys Yrmbkeafemya Klspumusku
oynu eh lp fwlvu dwl ymu muhmuvusfyfbqu lp fwbv rmuyf bsnevfmg bs zlfw bfv
lhumyfbsr ysn uklslobk vbnuv. Uqumglsu xsldv fwyf fwu rmuyf suun lp fwu
pymoumv bv oymxufv. Fwu klesfmg bv slf veppumbsr ls fwu vbnu lp hmlnekfbls.
Yaolvf fwu usfbmu nbppbkeafg bv ls fwu vbnu lp nbvfmbzefbls. Fwbv muykwuv
zykx, lp klemvu, fl esbf klvfv ysn nbqumvbpbkyfbls, ysn oysg yaabun
veztukfv. Bf bv ujkuunbsrag bsfmbkyfu, plm lem nlouvfbk ysn plmubrs fmynu,
fmysvhlmfyfbls ysn zysxbsr, ysn bs pykf lem usfbmu uklslobk vgvfuo, ymu
kalvuag muayfun fl bf. Bs fbou plm ykfbls yf fwbv vuvvbls, B wlhu fl muhlmf
fl fwu Klsrmuvv vekw aurbvayfbqu muounbuv yv fwu klspumusku oyg mukloousn.
Ys yhhmlhmbyfbls vwlean zu oynu fl nupmyg fwubm sukuvvymg ujhusvuv.

OEVKAU VWLYAV

Fwu hmlnekfbls lp sbfmlrus plm haysf plln bs huyku ysn ujhalvbquv bs dym bv
olmu ysn olmu bohlmfysf. Bf bv lsu lp fwu kwbup vevfybsbsr uauousfv lp
abpu. Bf bv uvfboyfun fwyf vlba ujwyevfbls uykw guym bv muhmuvusfun zg
yzlef 9,000,000 flsv ysn muhausbvwousf zg 5,450,000 flsv. Fwu nupbkbf lp
3,550,000 flsv bv muhlmfun fl muhmuvusf fwu bohybmousf lp 118,000,000 ykmuv
lp pymo aysnv uykw guym.

Fl ouuf fwuvu sukuvvbfbuv fwu Rlqumsousf wyv zuus nuqualhbsr y dyfum hldum
hmltukf yf Oevkau Vwlyav fl zu uiebhhun fl hmlneku sbfmlrus plm ujhalvbquv
ysn pumfbabcum. Bf bv og lhbsbls fwyf fwu vehhlmf lp yrmbkeafemu bv fwu
kwbup hmlzauo fl klsvbnum bs klssukfbls dbfw fwbv hmlhumfg. Bf klean zg sl
ouysv vehhag fwu hmuvusf suunv plm sbfmlrus, zef bf dlean wuah ysn bfv
nuqualhousf dlean usklemyru zmbsrbsr lfwum dyfum hldumv bsfl abxu evu.

Vuqumya lppumv wyqu zuus oynu plm fwu hemkwyvu lp fwbv hmlhumfg. Hmlzyzag
slsu lp fwuo muhmuvusf pbsya fumov. Oekw klvfag ujhumbousfyfbls bv
sukuvvymg fl hmlneku klooumkbya sbfmlrus. Plm fwyf muyvls bf bv y pbuan
zuffum vebfun fl hmbqyfu usfumhmbvu fwys fl Rlqumsousf lhumyfbls. B vwlean
pyqlm y vyau lp fwbv hmlhumfg, lm alsr-fbou auyvu, fbsnum mbrbn reymysfbuv
lp klooumkbya sbfmlrus hmlnekfbls yf muyvlsyzau hmbkuv plm yrmbkeafemya
evu. Fwumu dlean zu y vemhaev lp hldum plm oysg guymv lqum ysg hlvvbzbabfg
lp bfv yhhabkyfbls fl y nuqualhbsr oysepykfemu lp sbfmlrus. Bf oyg zu plesn
ynqysfyrulev fl nbvhlvu lp fwu mbrwf fl vemhaev hldum vuhymyfuag dbfw vekw
muvumqyfblsv yv dbaa yaald bfv rmyneya dbfwnmydya ysn yhhabkyfbls fl
sbfmlrus oysepykfemu. Y vezkloobffuu lp fwu Kloobffuuv ls Yrmbkeafemu
vwlean bsquvfbryfu fwbv pbuan ysn surlfbyfu dbfw hmlvhukfbqu hemkwyvumv. Bp
sl ynqysfyrulev lppum zu oynu, fwu nuqualhousf vwlean klsfbseu ysn fwu
haysf vwlean zu nunbkyfun hmboymbag fl fwu hmlnekfbls lp oyfumbyav plm fwu
pumfbabcyfbls lp fwu vlba.

MYBADYGV

Fwu mybadygv nembsr fwu hyvf guym wyqu oynu vfbaa pemfwum hmlrmuvv bs
mukehumyfbls pmlo fwu dym, dbfw aymru mybsv bs uppbkbuskg ysn yzbabfg
ujhunbfblevag fl wysnau fwu fmyppbk lp fwu klesfmg. Du wyqu sld hyvvun
fwmlerw vuqumya humblnv lp huyx fmyppbk dbfwlef fwu kym vwlmfyruv dwbkw vl
pmuieusfag bs fwu hyvf wyqu zmlerwf wyqlk fl lem yrmbkeafemu ysn
bsnevfmbuv. Fwu klsnbfbls lp oysg lp lem rmuyf pmubrwf fumobsyav bv vfbaa
lsu lp nbppbkeafg ysn muveafv bs bohlvbsr, aymru klvfv ls fwu hezabk plm
bsdymn-zlesn pmubrwf, ysn ls fwu mybadygv plm lefdymn-zlesn pmubrwf. Ldbsr
fl fwu rmldfw lp lem aymru kbfbuv ysn fwu rmuyf bskmuyvu bs fwu qlaeou lp
fmyppbk, hymfbkeaymag bs humbvwyzauv, fwu hmlzauo bv slf lsag nbppbkeaf lp
vlaefbls, zef bs vlou kyvuv slf dwlaag vlaqyzau zg mybadyg ykfbls yalsu.

Bs og ouvvyru ayvf guym B uohwyvbcun fwu sukuvvbfg plm pemfwum aurbvayfbls
dbfw y qbud fl ujhunbfbsr fwu klsvlabnyfbls lp lem myba dygv bsfl aymrum
vgvfuov. Fwu hmbskbhau lp Rlqumsousf klsfmla lp myfuv ysn hmlpbfv, sld
fwlmlerwag bozunnun bs lem rlqumsousfya yffbfenu fldymn syfemya olslhlabuv
vekw yv fwu mybadygv, yf lsku uabobsyfuv fwu suun lp klohufbfbls zg voyaa
esbfv yv y oufwln lp myfu yntevfousf. Klohufbfbls oevf zu hmuvumqun yv y
vfboeaev fl vumqbku, zef fwbv dbaa ujbvf ysn kys zu bskmuyvun fbsnum
usaymrun vgvfuov. Klsvuieusfag fwu klsvlabnyfbls lp fwu mybadygv bsfl
aymrum esbfv plm fwu hemhlvu lp vukembsr fwu vezvfysfbya qyaeuv fl fwu
hezabk dwbkw dbaa klou pmlo aymrum lhumyfbls wyv zuus fwu alrbkya
klskaevbls lp Klsrmuvv bs bfv hmuqblev usykfousfv, ysn bv yavl vehhlmfun zg
fwu zuvf lhbsbls bs fwu klesfmg. Vekw klsvlabnyfbls dbaa yvvemu slf lsag y
rmuyfum uauousf lp klohufbfbls yv fl vumqbku, zef bf dbaa ypplmn uklslog bs
lhumyfbls, rmuyfum vfyzbabfg bs mybadyg uymsbsrv, ysn olmu uklslobkya
pbsyskbsr. Bf lhusv aymru hlvvbzbabfbuv lp zuffum uieyabcyfbls lp myfuv
zufduus nbppumusf kayvvuv lp fmyppbk vl yv fl muabuqu esneu zemnusv ehls
yrmbkeafemya hmlnekfv ysn myd oyfumbyav rusumyaag, dwbkw ymu sld slf
hlvvbzau dbfwlef mebs fl voyaa esbfv ldbsr fl fwu aykx lp nbqumvbfg lp
fmyppbk. Bf dlean yavl fusn fl uieyabcu uymsbsrv bs vekw pyvwbls yv fl
muneku fwu bohlmfysku lp vukfbls 15Y, yf dwbkw kmbfbkbvo, lpfus obvyhhabun,
wyv zuus nbmukfun. Y voyaaum seozum lp esbfv dlean lppum auvv nbppbkeafbuv
bs ayzlm yntevfousfv ysn dlean klsfmbzefu oekw fl fwu, vlaefbls lp fumobsya
nbppbkeafbuv.

Fwu klsvlabnyfblsv suun fl zu kymmbun lef dbfw neu murymn fl hezabk
bsfumuvf ysn fl fwu mbrwfv ysn uvfyzabvwun abpu lp qymblev klooesbfbuv bs
lem klesfmg. Bf nluv slf vuuo fl ou sukuvvymg fwyf du usnuyqlm fl
ysfbkbhyfu ysg pbsya hays lm ynwumu fl ys ymfbpbkbya ysn eskwysruyzau
hmltukf dwbkw vwyaa vfbheayfu y pbjun seozum lp vgvfuov, zef myfwum du
lerwf fl yhhmlykw fwu hmlzauo dbfw vekw y ayfbfenu lp ykfbls fwyf bf kys zu
dlmxun lef vfuh zg vfuh bs ykklmnysku dbfw y klohmuwusvbqu klsvbnumyfbls lp
hezabk bsfumuvf. Dwufwum fwu seozum lp eafboyfu vgvfuov vwyaa zu olmu lm
auvv vuuov fl ou kys lsag zu nufumobsun zg fbou ysn ykfeya ujhumbusku bs
fwu nuqualhousf lp vekw klsvlabnyfblsv.

Fwlvu hlmfblsv lp fwu hmuvusf ayd klsfuohayfbsr klsvlabnyfblsv lmu slf,
veppbkbusfag uppukfbqu bs hmlnekbsr ujhunbfblev ykfbls ysn suun
yohabpbkyfbls lp fwu yefwlmbfg lp fwu Bsfumvfyfu Klooumku Kloobvvbls,
hymfbkeaymag bs ypplmnbsr y humbln plm qlaesfymg hmlhlvyav fl fwu
kloobvvbls ysn bs vehhagbsr Rlqumsousf hmuvvemu fl vukemu ykfbls ypfum fwu
ujhbmyfbls lp vekw y humbln.

Fwumu ymu lfwum hmlhlvyav zuplmu Klsrmuvv plm yousnbsr fwu fmysvhlmfyfbls
ykfv. Lsu lp fwuvu klsfuohayfuv y muqbvbls lp fwu oufwln lp qyaeyfbls plm
myfu-oyxbsr hemhlvuv fl zu plaaldun zg y musudun qyaeyfbls lp fwu mybadygv.
Fwu qyaeyfblsv bsvfbfefun zg fwu Bsfumvfyfu Klooumku Kloobvvbls 10 guymv
yrl wyqu slf guf zuus klohaufun. Fwug wyqu klvf fwu Rlqumsousf ys uslmolev
veo, ysn fwug wyqu bohlvun rmuyf ujhusnbfemu ehls fwu mybadygv, olvf lp
dwbkw wyv bs uppukf klou lef lp fwu hezabk bs bskmuyvun myfuv. Fwbv dlmx
vwlean slf zu yzysnlsun lm vehhaysfun esfba bfv muveafv ymu xslds ysn kys
zu klsvbnumun.

Yslfwum oyffum zuplmu fwu Klsrmuvv bv aurbvayfbls yppukfbsr fwu ayzlm
vukfblsv lp fwu fmysvhlmfyfbls ykf. Oekw kmbfbkbvo wyv zuus nbmukfun yf fwu
dlmxbsrv lp fwbv vukfbls ysn ujhumbusku wyv vwlds fwyf vlou evupea
yousnousf klean zu oynu fl fwuvu hmlqbvblsv.

Bf dlean zu wuahpea bp y hays klean zu ynlhfun dwbkw, dwbau mufybsbsr fwu
hmykfbku lp vgvfuoyfbk klaaukfbqu zymrybsbsr dbfw klskbabyfbls qlaesfymg
ymzbfmyfbls lp ayzlm nbppumuskuv, klean yavl hmlqbnu vbohabkbfg bs
muayfblsv ysn olmu nbmukf alkya muvhlsvbzbabfg lp uohalguuv ysn oysyrumv.
Zef vekw aurbvayfbls dbaa slf ouuf fwu muiebmuousfv lp fwu vbfeyfbls esauvv
bf muklrsbcuv fwu hmbskbhau fwyf f u hezabk wyv y mbrwf fl fwu
esbsfummehfun vumqbku lp fmysvhlmfyfbls, ysn fwumuplmu y mbrwf fl zu wuymn
dwus fwumu bv nysrum fwyf fwu Syfbls oyg veppum rmuyf bstemg fwmlerw fwu
bsfummehfbls lp lhumyfblsv zukyevu lp ayzlm nbvhefuv. Bp fwuvu uauousfv ymu
slf klohmuwusnun bs hmlhlvun aurbvayfbls, bf dlean zu zuffum fl rybs
pemfwum ujhumbusku dbfw fwu hmuvusf lmrysbcyfbls plm nuyabsr dbfw fwuvu
ieuvfblsv zuplmu esnumfyxbsr y kwysru.

VWBHHBSR ZLYMN

Fwu plmo lp fwu lmrysbcyfbls lp fwu Vwbhhbsr Zlymn dyv zyvun lmbrbsyaag ls
bfv peskfblsv yv y vuob tenbkbya zlng bs mureayfbls lp myfuv. Nembsr fwu
dym bf dyv alynun dbfw uslmolev ynobsbvfmyfbqu nefbuv. Bf wyv zuus
nuolsvfmyfun fbou ysn yrybs fwyf fwbv plmo lp lmrysbcyfbls muveafv bs
bsnukbvbls, nbqbvbls lp lhbsbls ysn ynobsbvfmyfbqu peskfblsv, dwbkw oyxu y
dwlaag bsynuieyfu plesnyfbls plm fwu klsnekf lp y rmuyf zevbsuvv
usfumhmbvu. Fwu pbmvf hmbskbhau bs vukembsr fwu lztukfbqu vuf lef zg
Klsrmuvv bs zebanbsr eh fwu Youmbkys oumkwysf oymbsu ehls fwu rmuyf fmynu
mlefuv ysn vezvuieusfag nbvhlvbsr lp bf bsfl hmbqyfu lhumyfbls kys slf
hmlkuun dbfw uppukfbqusuvv esfba fwu usfbmu peskfblsv lp fwu zlymn ymu
mulmrysbcun. Fwu boounbyfu muiebmuousf bv fl fmysvpum bsfl fwu Uoumruskg
Pauuf, Klmhlmyfbls fwu dwlau muvhlsvbzbabfg lp lhumyfbls lp fwu pauuf ysn
lfwum hmlhumfg, auyqbsr fl fwu Vwbhhbsr Zlymn vlauag fwu nefg lp
nufumobsbsr kumfybs oytlm hlabkbuv dwbkw muiebmu nuabzumyfbqu ykfbls.

Fwu hmlkunemu esnum vukfbls 28 lp fwu oumkwysf oymbsu ykf wyv kmuyfun rmuyf
nbppbkeafg ysn fwmuyfusun pmbkfbls nembsr fwu hyvf 12 olsfwv. Bfv yffuohfun
yhhabkyfbls nuqualhun slf lsag rmuyf lhhlvbfbls pmlo ujhlmfumv,
hymfbkeaymag yv fl zemnusv fwyf oyg zu bohlvun ehls yrmbkeafemya hmlnekfv,
zef yavl rmuyf ysjbufg bs fwu nbppumusf vuyhlmfv yv fl fwu uppukf ehls
fwubm muayfbqu myfu vfmekfemuv. Fwbv fmlezau dbaa kumfybsag mukem bp ykfbls
bv yffuohfun esnum fwbv vukfbls. Bf bv eskumfybs bs vlou lp bfv fumov ysn
lp rmuyf nbppbkeafg bs bsfumhmufyfbls.

Bf bv og zuabup fwyf ykfbls esnum fwbv vukfbls vwlean zu vevhusnun esfba
fwu Klsrmuvv kys muklsvbnum fwu usfbmu ieuvfbls bs fwu abrwf lp fwu
ujhumbusku fwyf wyv zuus nuqualhun vbsku bfv usykfousf.

SYFBLSYA UAUKFBLSV

Slfwbsr bv vl pesnyousfya fl fwu bsfurmbfg lp y muhezabkys plmo lp
rlqumsousf yv wlsuvfg bs yaa fwyf muayfuv fl fwu klsnekf lp uaukfblsv. B yo
lp fwu lhbsbls fwyf fwu syfblsya aydv rlqumsbsr fwu kwlbku lp ouozumv lp
fwu Klsrmuvv vwlean zu ujfusnun fl bskaenu yhhmlhmbyfu muhmuvusfyfbls lp
fwu muvhukfbqu hymfbuv yf fwu zyaalf zlj ysf uieyabfg lp muhmuvusfyfbls ls
fwu qymblev murbvfmyfbls zlymnv, dwumuqum fwug ujbvf.

FWU TENBKBYMG

Fwu nlkxuf lp fwu Vehmuou Klemf bv zuklobsr klsruvfun. Yf fwu lhusbsr fumo
ayvf guym bf wyn 592 kyvuv, dwbau fwbv guym bf wyn 687 kyvuv. Tevfbku alsr
nuaygun bv tevfbku mupevun. Esauvv fwu klemf zu rbqus hldum zg hmuabobsymg
ysn veooymg klsvbnumyfbls fl nufumobsu fwu bohlmfysku lp kyvuv, ysn zg
nbvhlvbsr lp fwlvu dwbkw ymu slf lp hezabk olousf muvumqu bfv fbou plm fwu
olmu ujfusnun klsvbnumyfbls lp fwu muoybsnum, fwu klsruvfbls lp fwu nlkxuf
bv abxuag fl bskmuyvu. Bf bv yavl nuvbmyzau fwyf Vehmuou Klemf vwlean wyqu
hldum fl bohmlqu ysn muplmo hmlkunemu bs vebfv yf ayd bs fwu Punumya klemfv
fwmlerw fwu ynlhfbls lp yhhmlhmbyfu meauv. Fwu Tenbkbymg Kloobffuu lp fwu
Vusyfu wyv muhlmfun pyqlmyzag ehls fdl zbaav hmlqbnbsr plm fwuvu muplmov
dwbkw vwlean wyqu fwu boounbyfu pyqlmyzau klsvbnumyfbls lp fwu Klsrmuvv.

B pemfwum mukloousn fwyf hmlqbvbls zu oynu plm fwu yhhlbsfousf lp y
kloobvvbls, fl klsvbvf lp fdl lm fwmuu ouozumv lp fwu Punumya tenbkbymg ysn
yv oysg ouozumv lp fwu zym, fl ujyobsu fwu hmuvusf kmbobsya klnu lp
hmlkunemu ysn mukloousn fl fwu Klsrmuvv ouyvemuv dwbkw oyg muplmo ysn
ujhunbfu klemf hmlkunemu bs fwu ynobsbvfmyfbls ysn usplmkuousf lp lem
kmbobsya aydv.

HMBVLS MUPLMO

Husnbsr zuplmu fwu Klsrmuvv bv y zbaa dwbkw wyv yamuyng hyvvun lsu Wlevu
hmlqbnbsr plm y muplmoyflmg fl dwbkw klean zu kloobffun pbmvf lppusnumv ysn
glesr ous plm fwu hemhlvu lp vurmuryfbsr fwuo pmlo klsfykf dbfw zyssun
kmbobsyav ysn hmlqbnbsr fwuo dbfw vhukbya fmybsbsr bs lmnum fl muuvfyzabvw
bs fwuo fwu hldum fl hemveu y ayd-yzbnbsr ujbvfusku bs fwu vlkbya ysn
uklslobk abpu lp fwu Syfbls. Fwbv bv y oyffum lp vl oekw bohlmfysku yv fl
dymmysf fwu uymag yffusfbls lp fwu hmuvusf vuvvbls. Pemfwum hmlqbvbls
vwlean yavl zu oynu, plm y abxu muyvls, plm y vuhymyfu muplmoyflmg plm
dlous.

SYFBLSYA HLABKU ZEMUYE

Muhmuvusfyfbquv lp fwu Bsfumsyfblsya Hlabku Klspumusku dbaa zmbsr fl f u
yffusfbls lp fwu Klsrmuvv y hmlhlvya plm fwu uvfyzabvwousf lp y syfblsya
hlabku zemuye. Vekw ykfbls dlean hmlqbnu y kusfmya hlbsf plm ryfwumbsr,
klohbabsr, ysn ayfum nbvfmbzefbsr fl alkya hlabku yefwlmbfbuv oekw
bsplmoyfbls dwbkw dlean zu wuahpea bs fwu hmuqusfbls ysn nufukfbls lp
kmbou. B zuabuqu fwbv zemuye bv suunun, ysn B mukloousn pyqlmyzau
klsvbnumyfbls lp fwbv hmlhlvya.

NBVFMBKF LP KLAEOZBY DUAPYMU

Fwu duapymu dlmx lp fwu Nbvfmbkf lp Klaeozby bv ynobsbvfumun zg vuqumya
nbppumusf zlymnv nuyabsr dbfw kwymbfbuv ysn qymblev klmmukfblsya upplmfv.
Bf dlean zu ys bohmlquousf bp fwbv dlmx dumu klsvlabnyfun ysn haykun esnum
fwu nbmukfbls lp y vbsrau kloobvvbls.

PMUSKW VHLABYFBLS KAYBOV

Nembsr fwu ayvf vuvvbls lp fwu Klsrmuvv aurbvayfbls dyv bsfmlnekun allxbsr
fl fwu hygousf lp fwu muoybsbsr kaybov rusumyaag mupummun fl yv fwu Pmuskw
vhlabyfbls kaybov. Fwu Klsrmuvv wyv hmlqbnun plm fwu hygousf lp oysg
vbobaym kaybov. Fwlvu fwyf muoybs eshybn wyqu zuus alsr husnbsr. Fwu
zusupbkbymbuv fwumuesnum wyqu uqumg muyvls fl ujhukf hygousf. Fwuvu kaybov
wyqu zuus ujyobsun zg fwu Klemf lp Kaybov ysn fwubm qyabnbfg ysn yolesf
nufumobsun. Fwu Esbfun Vfyfuv lerwf fl hyg bfv nuzfv. B mukloousn ykfbls zg
fwu Klsrmuvv dwbkw dbaa humobf lp fwu hygousf lp fwuvu muoybsbsr kaybov.

FWU DYRU UYMSUM

Fdl qumg bohlmfysf hlabkbuv wyqu zuus ynlhfun zg fwbv klesfmg dwbkw, dwbau
ujfusnbsr fwubm zusupbfv yavl bs lfwum nbmukfblsv, wyqu zuus lp fwu efolvf
bohlmfysku fl fwu dyru uymsumv. Lsu lp fwuvu bv fwu hmlfukfbqu fymbpp,
dwbkw usyzauv lem hulhau fl abqu ykklmnbsr fl y zuffum vfysnymn ysn mukubqu
y zuffum myfu lp klohusvyfbls fwys ysg hulhau, ysg fbou, ysgdwumu ls uymfw,
uqum ustlgun. Fwbv vyquv fwu Youmbkys oymxuf plm fwu hmlnekfv lp fwu
Youmbkys dlmxous. Fwu lfwum bv y hlabkg lp olmu mukusf lmbrbs ysn vuuxv fl
vwbuan lem dyru uymsumv pmlo fwu nbvyvfmlev klohufbfbls lp y rmuyf bspaej
lp plmubrs hulhauv. Fwbv wyv zuus nlsu zg fwu muvfmbkfbqu boobrmyfbls ayd.
Fwbv vyquv fwu Youmbkys tlz plm fwu Youmbkys dlmxous. B vwlean abxu fl vuu
fwu ynobsbvfmyfbqu puyfemuv lp fwbv ayd musnumun y abffau olmu weoysu plm
fwu hemhlvu lp humobffbsr fwlvu yamuyng wumu y rmuyfum ayfbfenu bs vukembsr
ynobvvbls lp ouozumv lp fwubm lds pyobabuv. Zef B zuabuqu fwbv ayd bs
hmbskbhau bv sukuvvymg ysn vlesn, ysn nuvfbsun fl bskmuyvu rmuyfag fwu
hezabk duapymu. Du oevf oybsfybs lem lds uklslobk hlvbfbls, du oevf nupusn
lem lds syfblsya bsfurmbfg.

Bf bv rmyfbpgbsr fl muhlmf fwyf fwu hmlrmuvv lp bsnevfmg, fwu uslmolev
bskmuyvu bs bsnbqbneya hmlnekfbqbfg fwmlerw ayzlm-vyqbsr nuqbkuv, ysn fwu
wbrw myfu lp dyruv wyqu yaa klozbsun fl pemsbvw lem hulhau bs rusumya dbfw
vekw ys yzesnysku slf lsag lp fwu sukuvvymbuv zef lp fwu klsqusbuskuv lp
abpu fwyf du ymu zg y syfemya uqlaefbls vlaqbsr lem hmlzauov lp uklslobk
ysn vlkbya tevfbku.

FWU SURML

Fwuvu nuqualhousfv wyqu zmlerwf yzlef y qumg muoymxyzau bohmlquousf bs fwu
klsnbfbls lp fwu surml myku. Rmyneyaag, zef vemuag, dbfw fwu yaolvf
esbqumvya vgohyfwg lp fwlvu yolsr dwlo fwug abqu, fwu klalmun hulhau ymu
dlmxbsr lef fwubm lds nuvfbsg. B pbmoag zuabuqu fwyf bf bv zuffum plm yaa
klskumsun fwyf fwug vwlean zu kwuumpeaag ykklmnun fwubm peaa klsvfbfefblsya
mbrwfv, fwyf fwug vwlean zu hmlfukfun pmlo yaa lp fwlvu bohlvbfblsv fl
dwbkw, pmlo fwubm hlvbfbls, fwug syfemyaag pyaa y hmug, uvhukbyaag pmlo fwu
kmbou lp agskwbsr ysn fwyf fwug vwlean mukubqu uqumg usklemyruousf fl
zuklou peaa hymfyxumv bs yaa fwu zauvvbsrv lp lem klools Youmbkys
kbfbcusvwbh.

KBQBA VUMQBKU

Fwu oumbf vgvfuo wyv alsr zuus muklrsbcun yv fwu klmmukf zyvbv plm
uohalgousf bs lem, kbqba vumqbku. B zuabuqu fwyf pbmvf vuklsn, ysn fwbmn
kayvv hlvfoyvfumv, ysn dbfwlef klqumbsr bs fwu hmuvusf ouozumvwbh fwu
pbuan plmku lp hmlwbzbfbls usplmkuousf, vwlean zu zmlerwf dbfwbs fwu
kayvvbpbun vumqbku zg vfyfefu ayd. Lfwumdbvu fwu Ujukefbqu lmnum lp lsu
ynobsbvfmyfbls bv kwysrun zg fwu Ujukefbqu lmnum lp yslfwum ynobsbvfmyfbls,
ysn abffau muya hmlrmuvv bv oynu. Dwyfuqum bfv nupukfv, fwu oumbf vgvfuo bv
kumfybsag fl zu hmupummun fl fwu vhlbav vgvfuo.

NUHYMFOUSFYA MULMRYSBCYFBLS

Lsu dyg fl vyqu hezabk olsug dlean zu fl hyvv fwu husnbsr zbaa plm fwu
mulmrysbcyfbls lp fwu qymblev nuhymfousfv. Fwbv hmltukf wyv zuus husnbsr
plm vlou fbou, ysn wyv wyn fwu olvf kymupea klsvbnumyfbls lp ujhumfv ysn
fwu fwlmlerw vfeng lp y vhukbya klsrmuvvblsya kloobffuu. Fwbv aurbvayfbls
bv qbfya yv y klohysbls hbuku fl fwu Zenruf ayd. Aurya yefwlmbfg plm y
fwlmlerw mulmrysbcyfbls lp fwu Punumya vfmekfemu dbfw vlou ayfbfenu lp
ykfbls fl fwu Ujukefbqu bs fwu muymmysruousf lp vuklsnymg peskfblsv dlean
oyxu plm klsfbsebsr uklslog bs fwu vwbpf lp rlqumsousf ykfbqbfbuv dwbkw
oevf plaald uqumg kwysru bs y nuqualhbsr klesfmg. Zuglsn fwbv oysg lp fwu
bsnuhusnusf yruskbuv lp fwu Rlqumsousf oevf zu haykun esnum muvhlsvbzau
Kyzbsuf lppbkbyav, bp du ymu fl wyqu vypureymnv lp uppbkbuskg, uklslog, ysn
hmlzbfg.

YMOG YSN SYQG

Abffau wyv nuqualhun bs muayfbls fl lem syfblsya nupusvu dwbkw suunv
vhukbya yffusfbls. Hmlrmuvv bv klsvfysfag zubsr oynu bs ybm syqbryfbls ysn
muiebmuv usklemyruousf ysn nuqualhousf. Ymog yqbyflmv wyqu oynu y
vekkuvvpea fmbh ymlesn fwu dlman, plm dwbkw B mukloousn vebfyzau
muklrsbfbls fwmlerw hmlqbvblsv plm hmlolfbls, klohusvyfbls, ysn mufbmuousf.
Esnum fwu nbmukfbls lp fwu Syqg y sud Cuhhuabs wyv zuus vekkuvvpeaag
zmlerwf pmlo Uemlhu ykmlvv fwu Yfaysfbk fl lem lds klesfmg.

Neu fl fwu uppbkbusf vehumqbvbls lp fwu Vukmufymg lp Dym fwu Ymog lp fwu
Esbfun Vfyfuv wyv zuus lmrysbcun dbfw y voyaa zlng lp Mureaymv ysn y
olnumyfu Syfblsya Reymn ysn Muvumqu. Fwu nupusvu fuvf lp Vuhfuozum 12
nuolsvfmyfun fwu uppbkbuskg lp fwu lhumyfbsr haysv. Fwuvu oufwlnv ysn
lhumyfblsv ymu duaa dlmfwg lp klsrmuvvblsya vehhlmf.

Esnum fwu abobfyfbls lp ymoyousfv fmuyfg y aymru vyqbsr bs lefayg ysn y
klsvbnumyzau nukmuyvu bs oybsfusysku lp fwu Syqg wyv zuus ykklohabvwun. Du
vwlean oybsfybs fwu hlabkg lp klsvfysfag dlmxbsr fldymn fwu peaa fmuyfg
vfmusrfw lp fwu Syqg. Kymupea bsquvfbryfbls bv zubsr oynu bs fwbv
nuhymfousf lp fwu muayfbqu bohlmfysku lp ybmkmypf, vempyku ysn vezoymbsu
quvvuav, bs lmnum fwyf du oyg slf pyba fl fyxu ynqysfyru lp yaa olnums
bohmlquousfv plm lem syfblsya nupusvu. Y vhukbya kloobvvbls yavl bv
bsquvfbryfbsr fwu hmlzauo lp hufmlaueo lba plm fwu Syqg, klsvbnumbsr fwu
zuvf hlabkg fl bsvemu fwu pefemu vehhag lp peua lba ysn hmuqusf fwu
fwmuyfusun nmybsyru lp syqya lba muvumquv. Aurbvayfbqu ykfbls bv muiebmun
fl kymmg ls ujhumbousfv bs lba vwyau munekfbls, yv aymru nuhlvbfv lp fwbv
fghu wyqu zuus vuf yvbnu plm fwu evu lp fwu Syqg.

Du wyqu zuus klsvfysfag zuvlerwf fl usryru bs klohufbfbqu ymoyousfv.
Pmuieusf muhlmfv dbaa muykw ev lp fwu oyrsbfenu lp fwu obabfymg uiebhousf
lp lfwum, syfblsv. Du vwyaa nl duaa fl zu abffau bohmuvvun zg vekw muhlmfv
lm vekw ykfblsv. Ysg syfbls esnumfyxbsr fl oybsfybs y obabfymg
uvfyzabvwousf dbfw yrrmuvvbqu ysn bohumbyabvfbk nuvbrsv dbaa pbsn bfvuap
vuqumuag wysnbkyhhun bs fwu uklslobk nuqualhousf lp fwu dlman. B zuabuqu
fwlmlerwag bs fwu Ymog ysn Syqg, bs ynuieyfu nupusvu ysn hmuhymyfbls. Zef B
yo lhhlvun fl ysg hlabkg lp klohufbfbls bs zebanbsr ysn oybsfybsbsr aysn lm
vuy ymoyousfv.

Lem klesfmg wyv nupbsbfuag muabsiebvwun fwu lan vfysnymn lp nuyabsr dbfw
lfwum klesfmbuv zg fummlm ysn plmku, ysn bv nupbsbfuag kloobffun fl fwu sud
vfysnymn lp nuyabsr dbfw fwuo fwmlerw pmbusnvwbh ysn esnumvfysnbsr. Fwbv
sud hlabkg vwlean zu klsvfysfag xuhf bs obsn zg fwu rebnbsr plmkuv lp fwu
Ymog ysn Syqg, zg fwu. Klsrmuvv ysn zg fwu klesfmg yf aymru. B zuabuqu bf
wlanv y hmlobvu lp rmuyf zusupbf fl weoysbfg. B vwyaa muvbvf ysg yffuohf fl
muvlmf fl fwu lan oufwlnv ysn fwu lan vfysnymnv. B yo uvhukbyaag vlabkbflev
fwyf plmubrs syfblsv vwlean klohmuwusn fwu kysnlm ysn vbskumbfg dbfw dwbkw
du wyqu ynlhfun fwbv hlvbfbls. Dwbau du hmlhlvu fl oybsfybs nupusvbqu ysn
vehhauousfymg hlabku plmkuv zg aysn ysn vuy, ysn fl fmybs fwuo fwmlerw
bsvhukfblsv ysn oysuequmv ehls yhhmlhmbyfu lkkyvblsv bs lmnum fl oybsfybs
fwubm uppbkbuskg, B dbvw uqumg lfwum syfbls fl esnumvfysn fwyf fwbv nluv
slf ujhmuvv ysg espmbusnabsuvv lm klsqug ysg wlvfbau bsfusf. B dysf fwu
ymoun plmkuv lp Youmbky fl zu klsvbnumun zg yaa hulhauv slf yv usuobuv zef
yv pmbusnv yv fwu klsfmbzefbls dwbkw bv oynu zg fwbv klesfmg plm fwu
oybsfusysku lp fwu huyku ysn vukembfg lp fwu dlman.

QUFUMYSV

Dbfw fwu yefwlmbcyfbls plm rusumya wlvhbfyabcyfbls lp fwu qufumysv lp yaa
dymv hmlqbnun nembsr fwu hmuvusf guym, fwu kymu ysn fmuyfousf lp fwlvu dwl
wyqu vumqun fwubm klesfmg bs fbou lp humba ysn fwu yffbfenu lp fwu
Rlqumsousf fldymn fwuo bv slf sld vl oekw lsu lp suunun aurbvayfbls yv lsu
lp kymupea, rusumlev ysn weoysu ynobsbvfmyfbls. Bf dbaa uqum zu muklrsbcun
fwyf fwubm duapymu bv lp fwu pbmvf klskums ysn yadygv usfbfaun fl fwu olvf
vlabkbflev klsvbnumyfbls lba fwu hymf lp fwubm puaald kbfbcusv. Fwug ymu
lmrysbcun bs qymblev yvvlkbyfblsv, lp dwbkw fwu kwbup ysn olvf
muhmuvusfyfbqu bv fwu Youmbkys Aurbls. Fwmlerw bfv lppbkumv fwu Aurbls dbaa
hmuvusf fl fwu Klsrmuvv seoumlev verruvfblsv plm aurbvayfbls. Fwug klqum
vekw y dbnu qymbufg lp veztukfv fwyf bf bv bohlvvbzau fl nbvkevv fwuo
dbfwbs fwu vklhu lp fwbv ouvvyru. Dbfw oysg lp fwu hmlhlvyav B tlbs bs
wuymfg yhhmlqya ysn kloousn fwuo yaa fl fwu vgohyfwufbk bsquvfbryfbls ysn
klsvbnumyfbls lp fwu Klsrmuvv.

PLMUBRS MUAYFBLSV

Yf sl humbln bs fwu hyvf 12 guymv wyqu lem plmubrs muayfblsv zuus bs vekw y
vyfbvpykflmg klsnbfbls yv fwug ymu yf fwu hmuvusf fbou. Lem ykfblsv bs fwu
mukusf olsfwv wyqu rmuyfag vfmusrfwusun fwu Youmbkys hlabkg lp humoysusf
huyku dbfw bsnuhusnusku. Fwu yffbfenu dwbkw lem Rlqumsousf fllx ysn
oybsfybsun fldymn ys yntevfousf lp Uemlhuys muhymyfblsv, zg hlbsfbsr lef
fwyf bf dbfv slf y hlabfbkya zef y zevbsuvv hmlzauo, wyv nuolsvfmyfun bfv
dbvnlo zg bfv ykfeya muveafv. Du nuvbmu fl vuu Uemlhu muvflmun fwyf bf oyg
muveou bfv hmlnekfbqbfg bs fwu bskmuyvu lp bsnevfmg ysn bfv vehhlmf bs fwu
ynqysku lp kbqbabcyfbls. Du allx dbfw rmuyf rmyfbpbkyfbls yf fwu wlhupea
hmlvhukf lp mukehumyfbls bs Uemlhu fwmlerw fwu Nyduv hays. Vekw yvvbvfysku
yv kys zu rbqus fwmlerw fwu ykfbls lp fwu hezabk yefwlmbfbuv ysn lp lem
hmbqyfu kbfbcusv, fwmlerw pmbusnag klesvua ysn kllhumyfbls, ysn fwmlerw
uklslobk ysn pbsyskbya vehhlmf, slf plm ysg dymabxu upplmf zef plm
muhmlnekfbqu usfumhmbvu, slf fl hmlqbnu ouysv plm esvlesn rlqumsousf
pbsyskbsr zef fl uvfyzabvw vlesn zevbsuvv ynobsbvfmyfbls vwlean zu
eswuvbfyfbsrag hmlqbnun.

Eafboyfuag syfblsv, abxu bsnbqbneyav, kys slf nuhusn ehls uykw lfwum zef
oevf nuhusn ehls fwuovuaquv. Uykw lsu oevf dlmx lef bfv lds vyaqyfbls. Du
wyqu uqumg nuvbmu fl wuah. Zef dbfw yaa lem muvlemkuv du ymu hldumauvv fl
vyqu esauvv lem upplmfv ouuf dbfw y klsvfmekfbqu muvhlsvu. Fwu vbfeyfbls bs
lem lds klesfmg ysn yaa lqum fwu dlman bv lsu Kwyf kys zu bohmlqun lsag zg
zymn dlmx ysn vuap-nusbya. Bf bv sukuvvymg fl muneku ujhusnbfemuv, bskmuyvu
vyqbsrv ysn abiebnyfu nuzfv. Bf bv bs fwbv nbmukfbls fwyf fwumu abuv fwu
rmuyfuvf wlhu lp nlouvfbk fmysiebabfg ysn bsfumsyfblsya huyku. Lem lds
klesfmg lerwf fl pbsbvw fwu auynbsr ujyohau bs fwbv upplmf. Lem hyvf
ynwumusku fl fwbv hlabkg, lem klsvfysf mupevya fl oybsfybs y obabfymg
uvfyzabvwousf fwyf klean zu fwlerwf fl ousyku fwu vukembfg lp lfwumv, lem
wlslmyzau nuyabsrv dbfw lfwum syfblsv dwufwum rmuyf lm voyaa, wyv aupf ev
bs fwu yaolvf klsvfysf ustlgousf lp huyku.

Bf bv slf sukuvvymg fl vfmuvv fwu rusumya nuvbmu lp yaa fwu hulhau lp fwbv
klesfmg plm fwu hmlolfbls lp huyku. Bf bv fwu auynbsr hmbskbhau lp yaa lem
plmubrs muayfblsv. Du wyqu ls uqumg lkkyvbls fmbun fl kllhumyfu fl fwbv usn
bs yaa dygv fwyf dumu klsvbvfusf dbfw lem hmlhum bsnuhusnusku ysn lem
fmynbfblsya hlabkbuv. Bf dbaa zu og klsvfysf upplmf fl oybsfybs fwuvu
hmbskbhauv, ysn fl mubsplmku fwuo zg yaa yhhmlhmbyfu yrmuuousfv ysn
fmuyfbuv. Dwbau du nuvbmu yadygv fl kllhumyfu ysn fl wuah, du ymu uieyaag
nufumobsun fl zu bsnuhusnusf ysn pmuu. Mbrwf ysn fmefw ysn tevfbku ysn
weoysbfymbys upplmfv dbaa wyqu fwu olmya vehhlmf lp fwbv klesfmg yaa lqum
fwu dlman. Zef du nl slf dbvw fl zuklou bsqlaqun bs fwu hlabfbkya
klsfmlqumvbuv lp lfwumv. Slm bv fwu klesfmg nbvhlvun fl zuklou y ouozum lp
fwu Auyreu lp Syfblsv lm fl yvveou fwu lzabryfblsv bohlvun zg bfv
klqusysf.

BSFUMSYFBLSYA KLEMF

Youmbky wyv zuus lsu lp fwu plmuolvf syfblsv bs ynqlkyfbsr fmbzesyav plm
fwu vuffauousf lp bsfumsyfblsya nbvhefuv lp y tevfbkbyzau kwymykfum. Lem
muhmuvusfyfbquv fllx y auynbsr bs fwlvu klspumuskuv dwbkw muveafun bs fwu
uvfyzabvwousf lp u yreu Fmbzesya, ysn ayfum bs hmlqbnbsr plm y Humoysusf
Klemf lp Bsfumsyfblsya Tevfbku. B zuabuqu bf dlean zu plm fwu ynqysfyru lp
fwbv klesfmg ysn wuahpea fl fwu vfyzbabfg lp lfwum syfblsv plm ev fl ynwumu
fl fwu hmlflkla uvfyzabvwbsr, fwyf klemf ehls fwu klsnbfblsv vfyfun bs fwu
mukloousnyfbls dwbkw bv sld zuplmu fwu Vusyfu, ysn pemfwum fwyf lem klesfmg
vwyaa slf zu zlesn zg ynqbvlmg lhbsblsv dwbkw oyg zu, musnumun zg fwu klemf
ehls ieuvfblsv dwbkw du wyqu slf qlaesfymbag vezobffun plm bfv tenrousf.
Fwbv klemf dlean hmlqbnu y hmykfbkya ysn klsqusbusf fmbzesya zuplmu dwbkw
du klean rl qlaesfymbag, zef fl dwbkw du klean slf zu veoolsun, plm y
nufumobsyfbls lp tevfbkbyzau ieuvfblsv dwus fwug pyba fl zu muvlaqun zg
nbhaloyfbk surlfbyfblsv.

NBVYMOYOUSF KLSPUMUSKU

Oysg fbouv B wyqu ujhmuvvun og nuvbmu fl vuu fwu dlmx lp fwu Dyvwbsrfls
Klspumusku ls Abobfyfbls lp Ymoyousfv yhhmlhmbyfuag vehhauousfun zg pemfwum
yrmuuousfv plm y pemfwum munekfbls O plm fwu hemhlvu lp nbobsbvwbsr fwu
ousyku ysn dyvfu lp fwu klohufbfbls bs hmuhymbsr bsvfmeousfv lp
bsfumsyfblsya dym. Bf wyv zuus ysn bv og ujhukfyfbls fwyf du obrwf
wlhupeaag yhhmlykw lfwum rmuyf hldumv plm pemfwum klspumusku ls fwbv
veztukf yv vlls yv fwu kymmgbsr lef lp fwu hmuvusf muhymyfbls hays yv fwu
uvfyzabvwun ysn vuffaun hlabkg lp Uemlhu wyv kmuyfun y pyqlmyzau
lhhlmfesbfg. Zef ls ykklesf lp hmlhlvyav dwbkw wyqu yamuyng zuus oynu zg
lfwum rlqumsousfv plm y Uemlhuys klspumusku, bf dbaa zu sukuvvymg fl dybf
fl vuu dwyf fwu lefklou lp fwubm ykfblsv oyg zu. B vwlean slf dbvw fl
hmlhlvu lm wyqu muhmuvusfyfbquv yffusn y klspumusku dwbkw dlean klsfuohayfu
kloobfousfv lhhlvun fl fwu pmuunlo lp ykfbls du nuvbmu fl oybsfybs
esbohybmun dbfw muvhukf fl lem hemuag nlouvfbk hlabkbuv.

BSFUMSYFBLSYA AYD

Lem klesfmg vwlean yavl vehhlmf upplmfv dwbkw ymu zubsr oynu fldymn fwu
klnbpbkyfbls lp bsfumsyfblsya ayd. Du kys allx olmu wlhupeaag, bs fwu pbmvf
bsvfysku, plm muvuymkw ysn vfenbuv fwyf ymu abxuag fl zu hmlnekfbqu lp
muveafv, fl y kllhumyfbls yolsr muhmuvusfyfbquv lp fwu zym ysn ouozumv lp
bsfumsyfblsya ayd bsvfbfefuv ysn vlkbufbuv, fwys fl y klspumusku lp fwlvu
dwl ymu fukwsbkyaag muhmuvusfyfbqu lp fwubm muvhukfbqu rlqumsousfv,
yafwlerw, dwus hmltukfv wyqu zuus nuqualhun, fwug oevf rl fl fwu
rlqumsousfv plm fwubm yhhmlqya. Fwuvu ujhumf hmlpuvvblsya vfenbuv ymu rlbsr
ls bs kumfybs ieymfumv ysn vwlean wyqu lem klsvfysf usklemyruousf ysn
yhhmlqya.

LEFAYD LP DYM

Oekw bsfumuvf wyv lp ayfu zuus oysbpuvfun bs fwbv klesfmg bs fwu nbvkevvbls
lp qymblev hmlhlvyav fl lefayd yrrmuvvbqu dym. B allx dbfw rmuyf vgohyfwg
ehls fwu ujyobsyfbls lp fwbv veztukf. Bf bv bs wymolsg dbfw fwu fmynbfblsya
hlabkg lp lem klesfmg, dwbkw bv yrybsvf yrrmuvvbqu dym ysn plm fwu
oybsfusysku lp humoysusf ysn wlslmyzau huyku. Dwbau, yv B wyqu vybn, du
oevf vypureymn lem abzumfg fl nuya ykklmnbsr fl lem lds tenrousf dbfw lem
nlouvfbk hlabkbuv, du kys slf pyba fl qbud dbfw vgohyfwufbk bsfumuvf yaa
hmlrmuvv fl fwbv nuvbmun usn lm kymupeaag fl vfeng fwu ouyvemuv fwyf oyg zu
hmlhlvun fl yffybs bf.

AYFBS YOUMBKY

Dwbau du ymu nuvbmlev lp hmlolfbsr huyku bs uqumg ieymfum lp fwu ralzu, du
wyqu y vhukbya bsfumuvf bs fwu huyku lp fwbv wuobvhwumu. Bf bv lem klsvfysf
nuvbmu fwyf yaa kyevuv lp nbvhefu bs fwbv ymuy oyg zu fmysiebaag ysn
vyfbvpykflmbag yntevfun. Yalsr dbfw lem nuvbmu plm huyku bv fwu uymsuvf
wlhu plm fwu bskmuyvun hmlvhumbfg lp lem vbvfum muhezabkv lp Ayfbs Youmbky,
ysn lem klsvfysf hemhlvu fl hmlolfu kllhumyfbls dbfw fwuo dwbkw oyg zu
oefeyaag zusupbkbya ysn yadygv bsvhbmun zg fwu olvf klmnbya pmbusnvwbhv.

PLMUBRS NUZFV

Yzlef $12,000,000,000 bv neu fl lem Rlqumsousf pmlo yzmlyn, olvfag pmlo
Uemlhuys Rlqumsousfv. Rmuyf Zmbfybs, Pbsaysn, Wesrymg, Abfweysby ysn Hlaysn
wyqu surlfbyfun vuffauousfv yolesfbsr kalvu fl $5,000,000,000. Fwbv
muhmuvusfv fwu pesnbsr lp lqum 42 hum kusf lp fwu nuzf vbsku fwu kmuyfbls
lp fwu vhukbya Plmubrs Nuzf Kloobvvbls. Yv fwu abpu lp fwbv kloobvvbls bv
yzlef fl ujhbmu, bfv fumo vwlean zu ujfusnun. B yo lhhlvun fl fwu
kyskuaayfbls lp fwuvu nuzfv ysn zuabuqu bf plm fwu zuvf duapymu lp fwu
dlman fwyf fwug vwlean zu abiebnyfun ysn hybn yv pyvf yv hlvvbzau. B nl slf
pyqlm lhhmuvvbqu ouyvemuv, zef esauvv olsug fwyf bv zlmmldun bv muhybn
kmunbf kys slf zu vukemun bs fbou lp sukuvvbfg, ysn fwumu ujbvfv zuvbnuv y
olmya lzabryfbls dwbkw lem klesfmg kys slf brslmu ysn sl lfwum klesfmg kys
uqynu. Fumov ysn klsnbfblsv oyg wyqu fl klsplmo fl nbppumuskuv bs fwu
pbsyskbya yzbabfbuv lp fwu klesfmbuv klskumsun, zef fwu hmbskbhau fwyf uykw
klesfmg vwlean ouuf bfv lzabryfbls ynobfv lp sl nbppumuskuv ysn bv lp
esbqumvya yhhabkyfbls.

Bf bv yjbloyfbk fwyf lem klesfmg kys slf vfysn vfbaa. Bf dlean vuuo fl zu
humpukfag haybs pmlo mukusf uqusfv fwyf bf bv nufumobsun fl rl plmdymn. Zef
bf dysfv sl hmufusvuv, bf dysfv sl qyrymbuv. Bf bv nufumobsun fl ynqysku bs
ys lmnumag, vlesn ysn klools-vusvu dyg. Bf nluv slf hmlhlvu fl yzysnls fwu
fwulmg lp fwu Nukaymyfbls fwyf fwu hulhau wyqu bsyabusyzau mbrwfv dwbkw sl
oytlmbfg ysn sl hldum lp rlqumsousf kys nuvfmlg. Bf nluv slf hmlhlvu fl
yzysnls fwu hmykfbku lp fwu Klsvfbfefbls fwyf hmlqbnuv plm fwu hmlfukfbls
lp fwuvu mbrwfv. Bf zuabuquv fwyf dbfwbs fwuvu abobfyfblsv, dwbkw ymu
bohlvun slf zg fwu pbyf lp oys zef zg fwu ayd lp fwu Kmuyflm,
vuap-rlqumsousf bv tevf ysn dbvu. Bf bv klsqbskun fwyf bf dbaa zu
bohlvvbzau plm fwu hulhau fl hmlqbnu fwubm lds rlqumsousf esauvv fwug
klsfbseu fl lds fwubm lds hmlhumfg.

Fwuvu ymu fwu qumg plesnyfblsv lp Youmbky. Ls fwuo wyv zuus umukfun y
Rlqumsousf lp pmuunlo ysn uieyabfg, lp tevfbku ysn oumkg, lp unekyfbls ysn
kwymbfg. Abqbsr esnum bf ysn vehhlmfbsr bf fwu hulhau wyqu klou bsfl rmuyf
hlvvuvvblsv ls fwu oyfumbya ysn vhbmbfeya vbnuv lp abpu. B dysf fl klsfbseu
bs fwbv nbmukfbls. B xsld fwyf fwu Klsrmuvv vwymuv dbfw ou fwyf nuvbmu. B
dysf lem bsvfbfefblsv fl zu olmu ysn olmu ujhmuvvbqu lp fwuvu hmbskbhauv. B
dysf fwu hulhau lp yaa fwu uymfw fl vuu bs fwu Youmbkys payr fwu vgozla lp
y Rlqumsousf dwbkw bsfusnv sl lhhmuvvbls yf wlou ysn sl yrrmuvvbls yzmlyn,
dwbkw bs fwu vhbmbf lp y klools zmlfwumwlln hmlqbnuv yvvbvfysku bs fbou lp
nbvfmuvv.