Flfglju xd rol Zxtejluu:

Ir iu ejsridmite rx jlvxjr rosr dxj rol dxqjro zxtulzqrikl mlsj rol ursrl
xd rol Qtixt it eltljsw iu exxh. Pl sjl sr vlszl. Rol zxqtrjm su s poxwl
osu osh s vjxuvljirm tlklj lbzllhlh. Pselu sjl sr rolij oieolur jstel,
lfvwxmfltr iu vwltridqw. Uxfl vsjru xd sejizqwrqjl sth ithqurjm oskl
wseelh; uxfl wxzswirilu oskl uqddljlh djxf urxjf sth dwxxh. Gqr uqzo wxuulu
oskl gllt sguxjglh piroxqr uljixqu hlrjifltr rx xqj ejlsr lzxtxfiz
urjqzrqjl. Urxzcu xd exxhu sjl fxhljsrl sth s poxwluxfl zsqrixt iu
vjlkswltr. Jsrlu xd itrljlur dxj ithqurjm, sejizqwrqjl, sth exkljtfltr oskl
gllt jlhqzlh. Usklju sth itklurxju sjl vjxkihite zsvirsw dxj tlp
zxturjqzrixt it ithqurjm sth vqgwiz pxjcu. Rol vqjzosuite vxplj xd
sejizqwrqjl osu itzjlsulh. Id rol vlxvwl fsitrsit rosr zxtdihltzl poizo
rolm sjl ltrirwlh rx oskl it rolfulwklu, it lszo xrolj, sth it Sfljizs, s
zxfdxjrsgwl vjxuvljirm piww zxtritql.

ZXTURJQZRIKL LZXTXFM

Piroxqr zxturjqzrikl lzxtxfm it Exkljtfltr lbvlthirqjlu pl uoxqwh txr txp
gl ltaxmite rolul jluqwru xj rolul vjxuvlzru. Glzsqul pl sjl txr txp
vomuizswwm sr psj, uxfl vlxvwl sjl hiuvxulh rx dxjelr rosr xqj psj hlgr
uriww jlfsitu. Rol Tsrixt fqur fscl ditstzisw uszjidizlu, szzxfvstilh gm s
urljt ulwd-hltisw it vqgwiz lbvlthirqjlu, qtriw pl oskl zxtyqljlh rol
hiusgiwirilu xd xqj vqgwiz ditstzl. Poiwl xqj xgwiesrixt rx klrljstu sth
hlvlthltru iu wsjel sth zxtritqite, rol olskilj gqjhlt xd rol tsrixtsw hlgr
iu glite urlshiwm lwifitsrlh. Sr rol lth xd roiu diuzsw mlsj ir piww gl
jlhqzlh djxf sgxqr $26,600,000,000 rx sgxqr $17,975,000,000. Sttqsw
itrljlur, itzwqhite psj uskiteu, piww oskl gllt jlhqzlh djxf $1,055,000,000
rx $670,0001,000. Rol uszjidizlu xd rol vlxvwl, rol lzxtxfm xd rol
Exkljtfltr, sjl uoxpite jlfsjcsgwl jluqwru. Rolm uoxqwh gl zxtritqlh dxj
rol vqjvxul xd jlwilkite rol Tsrixt xd rol gqjhlt xd itrljlur sth hlgr sth
jlwlsuite jlkltql dxj itrljtsw ifvjxklfltru sth tsrixtsw hlklwxvfltr.

Txr xtwm rol sfxqtr, gqr rol jsrl, xd Exkljtfltr itrljlur osu gllt jlhqzlh.
Zswwsgwl gxthu oskl gllt jldqthlh sth vsih, ux rosr hqjite roiu mlsj rol
skljsel jsrl xd itrljlur xt rol vjlultr vqgwiz hlgr dxj rol dijur rifl dlww
glwxp 4 vlj zltr. Cllvite rol zjlhir xd rol Tsrixt oieo iu s rjlflthxquwm
vjxdirsgwl xvljsrixt.

RSB JLHQZRIXT

Rol ifflhisrl djqir xd lzxtxfm sth rol jlrijlfltr xd rol vqgwiz hlgr iu rsb
jlhqzrixt. Rol sttqsw uskite it itrljlur glrpllt 1925 sth 1929 iu
$212,000,000. Piroxqr roiu tx giww rx jlwilkl rol rsbvsmlju pxqwh gl pxjro
vjxvxuite. Rol rojll flsuqjlu swjlshm ltszrlh wlskl xqj Exkljtfltr jlkltqlu
poljl rolm sjl txr xvvjluuikl. Lblfvrixtu, oskl gllt itzjlsulh qtriw
115,000,000 vlxvwl fscl gqr 2,500,000 ithikihqsw rsbsgwl jlrqjtu, ux rosr
dqjrolj jlhqzrixt uoxqwh gl fsitwm dxj rol vqjvxul xd jlfxkite
itlyqswirilu. Rol Ulzjlrsjm xd rol Rjlsuqjm osu jlzxfflthlh s flsuqjl poizo
pxqwh eikl qu s fqzo glrrlj gswstzlh umurlf xd rsbsrixt sth piroxqr
xvvjluuixt vjxhqzl uqddiziltr jlkltql. Ir osu fm zxfvwlrl uqvvxjr.

Qtdxjlullt zxtriteltzilu jlyqijite fxtlm sjl swpsmu sjiuite. Xqj vjxgsgwl
uqjvwqu dxj Aqtl 30, 1929, iu ufsww. S uwieor hlvjluuixt it gquitluu pxqwh
ejlsrwm jlhqzl xqj jlkltql glzsqul xd xqj vjlultr flroxh xd rsbsrixt. Rol
vlxvwl xqeor rx rscl tx ulwdiuo srrirqhl xd vjluuite dxj jlfxkite fxhljsrl
sth dsij rsblu poizo fieor vjxhqzl s hldizir. Pl fqur cllv xqj gqhelr
gswstzlh dxj lszo mlsj. Rosr iu rol zxjtlj urxtl xd xqj tsrixtsw zjlhir,
rol rjidwite vjizl pl vsm rx zxffsth rol wxplur jsrl xd itrljlur xd stm
ejlsr vxplj it rol pxjwh. Stm uqjvwqu zst gl svvwilh rx hlgr jlhqzrixt, sth
hlgr jlhqzrixt iu rsb jlhqzrixt. Qthlj rol vjlultr zijzqfurstzlu ir pxqwh
gl dsj glrrlj rx wlskl rol jsrlu su rolm sjl rost rx ltszr s giww zsjjmite
rol vljiw xd s hldizir. Roiu iu txr s vjxgwlf rx gl svvjxszolh it s tsjjxp
xj vsjriust uvijir. Sww xd roxul pox vsjrizivsrl it dithite s jlsuxtsgwl
uxwqrixt piww gl ltrirwlh rx vsjrizivsrl it stm zjlhir rosr szzjqlu djxf ir
piroxqr jlesjh rx vsjrm. Rol Zxtejluu osu swjlshm hlfxturjsrlh rosr rsb
wleiuwsrixt zst gl jlfxklh djxf vqjlwm vxwirizsw zxtuihljsrixt itrx rol
jlswf xd vsrjixriz gquitluu vjitzivwlu.

Stm giww dxj rsb jlhqzrixt uoxqwh gl pjirrlt gm roxul pox sjl jluvxtuigwl
dxj jsiuite, fstseite, sth lbvlthite rol ditstzlu xd rol Exkljtfltr. Id
uvlzisw itrljluru, rxx xdrlt ulwdiuo, swpsmu qtitdxjflh xd rol tsrixtsw
tllhu su s poxwl, piro oijlh seltru quite rolij vjxvxulh gltldizisjilu su
lteitlu xd vjxvsesths, sjl vljfirrlh rx itdwqltzl rol pirohjspsw xd rolij
vjxvljrm djxf rsbsrixt, pl uosww oskl s wsp rosr iu qtgswstzlh sth qtaqur,
gsh dxj gquitluu, gsh dxj rol zxqtrjm, vjxgsgwm jluqwrite it s hldizir,
piro hiusurjxqu ditstzisw Zxtulyqltzlu. Rol Zxturirqrixt osu eiklt rol
Flfglju xd rol Zxtejluu uxwl sqroxjirm rx hlzihl posr rsb flsuqjlu uosww gl
vjlultrlh dxj svvjxksw. Poiwl plwzxfite itdxjfsrixt djxf stm yqsjrlj, rol
Zxtejluu uoxqwh zxtritql rx lbljziul iru xpt aqhefltr it s fsrrlj ux kirsw
sth ifvxjrstr rx sww rol itrljluru xd rol zxqtrjm su rsbsrixt.

TSRIXTSW HLDLTUL

Glite s tsrixt jlwmite txr xt dxjzl, gqr xt dsij hlswite sth exxh piww, rx
fsitrsit vlszl piro xrolju, pl oskl vjxkihlh s fxhljsrl fiwirsjm dxjzl it s
dxjf shsvrlh uxwlwm rx hldltul. Ir uoxqwh gl zxtritqlh piro s kljm eltljxqu
uqvvwm xd xddizlju sth piro rol vjlultr gsul xd vljuxttlw, uqgalzr rx
dwqzrqsrixtu poizo fsm gl rlfvxjsjiwm hluijsgwl.

Rol dikl-mlsj vjxejsf dxj xqj sij dxjzlu iu it cllvite piro roiu usfl
vxwizm sth zxffltuqjsrl piro rol txrsgwl zxtrjigqrixtu xd Sfljizs rx rol
uziltzl xd sljxtsqrizu. Rol vjxkiuixtu xd rol wsp wsrlwm ltszrlh sjl glite
lblzqrlh su dsur su rol vjszrizsw hiddizqwrilu xd st xjhljwm sth ursgwl
hlklwxvfltr vljfir.

Poiwl xqj Sjfm iu ufsww, vjqhltzl jlyqijlu rosr ir uoxqwh gl clvr it s oieo
ursrl xd lddiziltzm sth vjxkihlh piro uqzo uqvvwilu su pxqwh vljfir xd iru
ifflhisrl lbvstuixt. Rol esjjiuxt jsrixt osu wsrlwm gllt itzjlsulh.
Jlzxfflthsrixtu dxj st svvjxvjisrixt xd $6,166,000 dxj tlp oxquite fshl rx
rol vjlkixqu Zxtejluu dsiwlh rx vsuu. Poiwl fxur xd rol Sjfm iu plww
oxqulh, uxfl xd ir poizo iu yqsjrljlh it psjrifl rjsitite zsfvu iu glzxfite
vxxjwm oxqulh. It rol vsur rojll mlsju $12,533,000 oskl gllt svvjxvjisrlh
dxj jlzxturjqzrixt sth jlvsiju, sth st sqroxjinsrixt osu gllt svvjxklh xd
$22,301,000 dxj tlp oxquite, qthlj poizo $8,070,000 osu swjlshm gllt
svvjxvjisrlh. S wsp osu swux gllt vsuulh, zxfvwmite piro rol jlyqlur xd rol
Psj Hlvsjrfltr, swwxzsrite dqthu jlzliklh djxf rol uswl xd gqiwhiteu sth
wsth dxj oxquite vqjvxulu. Rol pxjc, oxplklj, iu txr zxfvwlrlh, ux rosr
xrolj svvjxvjisrixtu sjl glite jlzxfflthlh.

Xqj Tskm iu wiclpiul s plsvxt xd hldltul. Pl oskl s dxjliet zxffljzl sth
xzlst witlu xd rjshl qtuqjvsuulh gm stm xrolj zxqtrjm. Pl oskl xqrwmite
rljjirxjm it rol rpx ejlsr xzlstu sth wxte urjlrzolu xd ulszxsur urqhhlh
piro rol jizolur zirilu it rol pxjwh. Pl sjl jluvxtuigwl dxj rol vjxrlzrixt
xd s wsjel vxvqwsrixt sth rol ejlsrlur rjlsuqjl lklj glurxplh qvxt stm
vlxvwl. Pl sjl zosjelh piro st itrljtsrixtsw hqrm xd hldlthite rol Vstsfs
Zstsw. Rx fllr rolul jluvxtuigiwirilu pl tllh s kljm uqgurstrisw uls
sjfsfltr. Ir tllhu sijzjsdr hlklwxvfltr, poizo iu glite vjxkihlh qthlj rol
dikl-mlsj vjxejsf. Ir tllhu uqgfsjitlu su uxxt su rol hlvsjrfltr hlzihlu
qvxt rol glur rmvl xd zxturjqzrixt. Ir tllhu sijvwstl zsjjilju sth s
fsrljisw shhirixt rx iru dxjzl xd zjqiulju. Pl zst vwst dxj rol dqrqjl sth
gleit s fxhljsrl gqiwhite vjxejsf.

Roiu zxqtrjm osu vqr spsm rol Xwh Pxjwh vxwizm xd zxfvlririkl sjfsfltru. Ir
zst tlklj gl jlwilklh xd rol jluvxtuigiwirm xd shlyqsrl tsrixtsw hldltul.
Pl oskl xtl rjlsrm ulzqjlh gm st qtvjlzlhltrlh srrirqhl xd eltljxuirm xt
xqj vsjr dxj s wifirsrixt it tsksw sjfsfltr. Sdrlj fxur zsjldqw
vjlvsjsrixt, lbrlthite xklj fxtrou, pl jlzltrwm fshl lkljm lddxjr rx ulzqjl
s rojll-vxplj rjlsrm rx rol usfl lth. Pl pljl ejstrlh fqzo zxxvljsrixt gm
Asvst, gqr pl pljl qtsgwl rx zxfl rx st sejllfltr piro Ejlsr Gjirsit. Poiwl
rol jluqwru xd rol zxtdljltzl pljl xd zxtuihljsgwl kswql, rolm pljl fxurwm
xd s tlesrikl zosjszrlj. Pl ctxp txp rosr tx sejllfltr zst gl jlszolh poizo
piww gl itzxtuiurltr piro s zxtuihljsgwl gqiwhite vjxejsf xt xqj vsjr. Pl
sjl jlshm sth piwwite rx zxtritql rol vjlvsjsrxjm itkluriesrixtu xt rol
eltljsw uqgalzr xd wifirsrixt xd sjfsfltru poizo oskl gllt ursjrlh qthlj
rol squvizlu xd rol Wlseql xd Tsrixtu.

Pl oskl s zxtuihljsgwl zjqiulj rxttsel, gqr s vsjr xd ir iu xguxwlrl.
Lkljmxtl ctlp rosr osh s rojll-vxplj sejllfltr gllt jlszolh ir pxqwh oskl
wldr qu piro rol tlzluuirm xd zxtritqite xqj gqiwhite vjxejsf. Rol dsiwqjl
rx sejll uoxqwh txr zsqul qu rx gqiwh lirolj fxjl xj wluu rost pl xroljpiul
uoxqwh. Stm dqrqjl rjlsrm xd wifirsrixt piww zsww xt qu dxj fxjl uoivu. Pl
uoxqwh ltrlj xt tx zxfvlririxt. Pl uoxqwh jldjsit djxf tx tllhdqw vjxejsf.
Ir uoxqwh gl fshl zwlsj rx sww rol pxjwh rosr wszcite s hlditirl sejllfltr,
rol srrirqhl xd stm xrolj zxqtrjm iu txr rx gl vljfirrlh rx swrlj xqj xpt
vxwizm. Ir uoxqwh luvlziswwm gl hlfxturjsrlh rosr vjxvsesths piww txr zsqul
qu rx zostel xqj zxqjul. Poljl roljl iu tx rjlsrm wifirsrixt, rol uinl xd
rol Tskm poizo Sfljizs iu rx oskl piww gl uxwlwm dxj Sfljizs rx hlrljfitl.
Tx xqruihl itdwqltzl uoxqwh ltwsjel ir xj hifitiuo ir. Gqr ir uoxqwh gl
ctxpt rx sww rosr xqj fiwirsjm vxplj oxwhu tx rojlsr xd seejsthinlfltr. Ir
iu s eqsjstrm xd vlszl sth ulzqjirm sr oxfl, sth polt ir exlu sgjxsh ir iu
st iturjqfltr dxj rol vjxrlzrixt xd rol wlesw jieoru xd xqj zirinltu qthlj
itrljtsrixtsw wsp, s jldqel it rifl xd hiuxjhlj, sth swpsmu rol uljkstr xd
pxjwh vlszl. Poljlklj xqj dwse exlu rol jieoru xd oqfstirm itzjlsul.

FLJZOSTR FSJITL

Rol Qtirlh Ursrlu Exkljtfltr dwllr iu rjstuvxjrite s wsjel sfxqtr xd
djlieor sth jlhqzite iru hjsit xt rol Rjlsuqjm. Rol Uoivvite Gxsjh iu
zxturstrwm qthlj vjluuqjl, rx poizo ir rxx xdrlt milwhu, rx vjxrlzr vjiksrl
itrljluru, jsrolj rost uljkl rol vqgwiz plwdsjl. Fxjl srrltrixt uoxqwh gl
eiklt rx fljzostr uoivu su st sqbiwisjm xd rol Tskm. Rol vxuuigiwirm xd
itzwqhite rolij fsurlju sth zjlpu it rol Tsksw Jluljkl, piro uxfl
jlsuxtsgwl zxfvltusrixt, uoxqwh gl roxjxqeowm lbvwxjlh su s flroxh xd
ltzxqjseite vjiksrl xvljsrixt xd uoivvite. Vqgwiz xvljsrixt iu txr s
uqzzluu. Tx itkluriesrixt, xd poizo I oskl zsqulh ulkljsw rx gl fshl, osu
dsiwlh rx jlvxjr rosr ir zxqwh txr uqzzllh xj rx jlzxfflth uvllhm rjstudlj
rx vjiksrl xptljuoiv. Xqj lbvxjrlju sth ifvxjrlju sjl gxro ithiddljltr
sgxqr quite Sfljizst uoivu. Ir uoxqwh gl xqj vxwizm rx cllv xqj vjlultr
kluulwu it jlvsij sth hiuvxul xd rolf su jsvihwm su vxuuigwl, jsrolj rost
qthljrscl stm tlp zxturjqzrixt. Rolij xvljsrixt iu s gqjhlt xt rol Tsrixtsw
Rjlsuqjm, dxj poizo pl sjl txr jlzlikite uqddiziltr gltldiru.

ZXFFLJZISW SKISRIXT

S jsvih ejxpro iu rscite vwszl it sljxtsqrizu. Rol Hlvsjrfltr xd Zxffljzl
osu zosjel xd rol ituvlzrixt sth wizltuite umurlf sth rol zxturjqzrixt xd
tsrixtsw sijpsmu. Swfxur 8,000 fiwlu sjl swjlshm zxfvwlrlh sth sgxqr 4,000
fiwlu fxjl zxtrlfvwsrlh. Tlsjwm 4,400 fiwlu sjl txp lyqivvlh sth xklj 3,000
fiwlu fxjl piww oskl wieorite sth lfljeltzm wsthite dilwhu gm tlbr Aqwm.
Sij fsiw zxtrjszru sjl lbvlzrlh rx zxklj 24 xd rolul witlu. Hsiwm sijpsm
dwmite iu tlsjwm 15,000 fiwlu sth iu lbvlzrlh rx jlszo 25,000 fiwlu lsjwm
tlbr mlsj.

Dwieoru dxj xrolj vqjvxulu lbzllh 22,000 fiwlu lszo hsm. Xklj 900 sijvxjru,
zxfvwlrlh sth qtzxfvwlrlh, oskl gllt wsih xqr. Rol hlfsth dxj sijzjsdr osu
ejlsrwm itzjlsulh. Rol vxwizm swjlshm shxvrlh gm rol Zxtejluu iu vjxhqzite
rol uxqth hlklwxvfltr xd roiu zxfite ithqurjm.

PLURLJT OLFIUVOLJL SIJ FSIW

Vjiksrl ltrljvjiul iu uoxpite fqzo itrljlur it xvltite qv skisrixt uljkizl
rx Flbizx sth Zltrjsw sth Uxqro Sfljizs. Pl sjl vsjrizqwsjwm uxwizirxqu rx
oskl rol Qtirlh Ursrlu rscl s wlshite vsjr it roiu hlklwxvfltr. Ir iu
qthljurxxh rosr rol exkljtfltru xd xqj uiurlj zxqtrjilu pxqwh gl piwwite rx
zxxvljsrl. Rolij vomuizsw dlsrqjlu, rol qthlklwxvlh ursrl xd rolij
rjstuvxjrsrixt, fscl st sij uljkizl luvlziswwm shsvrsgwl rx rolij qusel.
Rol Vxur Xddizl Hlvsjrfltr uoxqwh gl ejstrlh vxplj rx fscl wigljsw
wxte-rljf zxtrjszru dxj zsjjmite xqj fsiw, sth sqroxjirm uoxqwh gl eiklt rx
rol Sjfm sth rol Tskm rx hlrsiw skisrxju sth vwstlu rx zxxvljsrl piro
vjiksrl ltrljvjiul it lursgwiuoite uqzo fsiw uljkizl piro rol zxtultr xd
rol zxqtrjilu zxtzljtlh. S zxffirrll xd rol Zsgitlr piww wsrlj vjlultr s
jlvxjr xt roiu uqgalzr.

EXXH JXSHU

Rol ifvxjrstzl sth gltldir xd exxh jxshu iu fxjl sth fxjl zxfite rx gl
svvjlzisrlh. Rol Tsrixtsw Exkljtfltr osu gllt fscite wigljsw zxtrjigqrixtu
rx ltzxqjsel rolij zxturjqzrixt. Rol jluqwru sth gltldiru oskl gllt kljm
ejsridmite. Tsrixtsw vsjrizivsrixt, oxplklj, uoxqwh gl zxtditlh rx
rjqtc-witl umurlfu. Rol tsrixtsw rsb xt sqrxfxgiwlu iu txp tlsjwm
uqddiziltr rx fllr roiu xqrwsm. Roiu rsb iu kljm ufsww, sth xt wxp-vjizlh
zsju iu txr fxjl rost $2 xj $3 lszo mlsj.

Poiwl rol shkstrsel xd oskite exxh jxshu iu kljm wsjel, rol hluijl dxj
ifvjxklh oieopsmu iu txr wifirlh rx xqj xpt zxqtrjm. Ir uoxqwh sth hxlu
itzwqhl sww rol Plurljt Olfiuvoljl. Rol vjitzivsw vxitru it Zstshs sjl
swjlshm szzluuigwl. Pl xqeor rx wlth xqj ltzxqjselfltr it stm psm pl zst
dxj fxjl exxh jxshu rx sww rol vjitzivsw vxitru it roiu olfiuvoljl uxqro xd
rol Jix Ejsthl. Ir osu gllt xqj vjszrizl rx uqvvwm rolul zxqtrjilu piro
fiwirsjm sth tsksw shkiulju, polt rolm oskl jlyqlurlh ir, rx suuiur rolf it
tsrixtsw hldltul. Rol sjru xd vlszl sjl lklt fxjl ifvxjrstr rx rolf sth rx
qu. Sqroxjirm uoxqwh gl eiklt gm wsp rx vjxkihl rolf sr rolij jlyqlur piro
lteitlljite shkiulju dxj rol zxturjqzrixt xd jxshu sth gjihelu. It uxfl xd
rolul zxqtrjilu swjlshm pxthljdqw vjxejluu iu glite fshl it jxsh gqiwhite,
gqr rol lteitlljite dlsrqjlu sjl xdrlt kljm lbszrite sth rol ditstzite
hiddizqwr. Vjiksrl itrljluru uoxqwh wxxc piro dskxj xt sww jlsuxtsgwl wxstu
uxqeor gm rolul zxqtrjilu rx xvlt uqzo fsit witlu xd rjsklw.

Roiu eltljsw uqgalzr osu gllt vjxfxrlh gm rol Vst Sfljizst Zxtejluu xd
Oieopsmu, poizo piww zxtkltl sesit sr Jix hl Astlijx it Aqwm, 1928. Ir iu
hluijsgwl rosr rol Zxtejluu uoxqwh vjxkihl dxj rol svvxitrfltr xd hlwlesrlu
rx jlvjlultr rol Exkljtfltr xd rol Qtirlh Ursrlu.

ZQGST VSJZLW VXUR

Pl oskl s rlfvxjsjm vsjzlw-vxur zxtkltrixt piro Zqgs. Rol shkstrsel xd ir
iu sww xt xqj uihl. Hqjite 1926 pl uoivvlh rplwkl riflu su fstm vsjzlwu,
plieoite rpltrm-dxqj riflu su fqzo, su pl jlzliklh. Roiu zxtkltrixt psu
fshl xt rol qthljursthite rosr pl pxqwh jlvlsw st xwh wsp vjxoigirite rol
ifvxjrsrixt xd ziesju sth ziesjlrrlu it yqstririlu wluu rost 3,000 ltszrlh
it 1866 rx hiuzxqjsel ufqeewite, dxj poizo ir osu wxte gllt qttlzluusjm.
Roiu wsp qtaqurwm hiuzjifitsrlu sesitur st ifvxjrstr ithqurjm xd Zqgs. Iru
jlvlsw osu gllt jlzxfflthlh gm rol Rjlsuqjm sth Vxur Xddizl Hlvsjrfltru.
Qtwluu roiu iu hxtl xqj fljzostru sth jsiwjxshu piww dith rolfulwklu
hlvjiklh xd roiu wsjel vsjzlw-vxur gquitluu sdrlj rol 1ur xd tlbr Fsjzo,
rol hsrl xd rol lbvijsrixt xd rol zxtkltrixt, poizo osu gllt lbrlthlh qvxt
rol uvlzidiz qthljursthite rosr ir pxqwh lbvijl sr rosr rifl qtwluu roiu
wleiuwsrixt psu ltszrlh. Pl vqjzosul wsjel yqstririlu xd rxgszzx fshl it
Zqgs. Ir iu txr vjxgsgwl rosr xqj vqjzosulu pxqwh gl stm wsjelj id roiu wsp
psu jlvlswlh, poiwl ir pxqwh gl st shkstrsel rx fstm xrolj ithqurjilu it
rol Qtirlh Ursrlu.

ITUQWSJ VXUULUUIXTU

Zxthirixtu it rol Voiwivvitl Iuwsthu oskl gllt urlshiwm ifvjxklh.
Zxtrltrfltr sth exxh xjhlj vjlksiw. Jxshu, ijjiesrixt pxjcu, osjgxj
ifvjxklfltru, sth vqgwiz gqiwhiteu sjl glite zxturjqzrlh. Vqgwiz lhqzsrixt
sth ustirsrixt oskl gllt shkstzlh. Rol Exkljtfltr iu it s uxqth ditstzisw
zxthirixt. Rolul ifflhisrl jluqwru pljl luvlziswwm hql rx rol
shfitiurjsrixt xd Exk. Elt. Wlxtsjh Pxxh. Rol uib mlsju xd oiu exkljtxjuoiv
fsjclh s hiuritzr ifvjxklfltr it rol iuwsthu sth jstc su xtl xd rol
xqrursthite szzxfvwiuofltru xd roiu hiuriteqiuolh fst. Oiu hlsro iu s wxuu
rx rol Tsrixt sth rol iuwsthu.

Ejlsrlj vjxejluu zxqwh gl fshl, fxjl lddiziltzm zxqwh gl vqr itrx
shfitiurjsrixt, id rol Zxtejluu pxqwh qthljrscl rx lbvlth, rojxqeo iru
svvjxvjisrite vxplj, sww xj s vsjr xd rol zqurxfu jlkltqlu poizo sjl txp
rqjtlh xklj rx rol Voiwivvitl rjlsuqjm. Rol vxplju xd rol sqhirxj xd rol
iuwsthu swux tllh jlkiuixt sth zwsjidizsrixt. Rol exkljtfltr xd rol iuwsthu
iu sgxqr 98 vlj zltr it rol osthu xd rol Diwivitxu. St lbrltuixt xd rol
vxwizm xd ulwd-exkljtfltr piww gl osurltlh gm rol hlfxturjsrixt xt rolij
vsjr xd rolij hluijl sth rolij sgiwirm rx zsjjm xqr zxjhiswwm sth
lddiziltrwm rol vjxkiuixtu xd rol xjestiz wsp ltszrlh gm rol Zxtejluu dxj
rol exkljtfltr xd rol iuwsthu. Ir pxqwh gl plww dxj s zxffirrll xd rol
Zxtejluu rx kiuir rol iuwsthu lkljm rpx mlsju.

S dsij hlejll xd vjxejluu iu glite fshl it Vxjrx Jizx. Iru sejizqwrqjsw
vjxhqzru sjl itzjlsuite; iru rjlsuqjm vxuirixt, poizo osu eiklt fqzo
zxtzljt, uoxpu ifvjxklfltr. I sf shkiulh gm rol exkljtxj rosr lhqzsrixtsw
dsziwirilu sjl uriww wszcite. Jxshu sjl glite zxturjqzrlh, poizo ol
jlvjlultru sjl rol dijur jlyqiuirl dxj gqiwhite uzoxxwoxqulu. Rol wxmswrm
xd rol iuwsth rx rol Qtirlh Ursrlu iu lbzllhitewm ejsridmite. S flfxjisw
piww gl vjlultrlh rx mxq jlyqlurite sqroxjirm rx oskl rol exkljtxj lwlzrlh
gm rol vlxvwl xd Vxjrx Jizx. Roiu psu tlklj hxtl it rol zsul xd xqj xpt
Rljjirxjilu. Ir iu shfirrlh rosr lhqzsrixt xqruihl xd rol rxptu iu su mlr
kljm hldiziltr. Qtriw ir osu vjxejluulh dqjrolj rol lddiziltzm xd rol
exkljtfltr sth rol osvvitluu xd rol vlxvwl fsm tllh rol eqihite osth xd st
svvxitrlh exkljtxj. Su ir iu txr zxtrlfvwsrlh rosr stm zostel uoxqwh gl
fshl ifflhisrlwm, rol eltljsw uqgalzr fsm plww oskl rol roxqeordqw urqhm xd
rol Zxtejluu.

VSTSFS ZSTSW

Rol tqfglj xd zxffljzisw uoivu vsuuite rojxqeo rol Vstsfs Zstsw osu
itzjlsulh djxf 3,967 it 1923 rx 5,475 it 1927. Rol rxrsw sfxqtr xd rxwwu
rqjtlh itrx rol Rjlsuqjm iu xklj $166,000,000, poiwl sww rol xvljsrixtu xd
rol zstsw oskl milwhlh s uqjvwqu xd sgxqr $80,000,000. It xjhlj rx vjxkihl
shhirixtsw urxjsel xd psrlj sth eikl uxfl zxtrjxw xklj rol dwxxhu xd rol
Zosejlu Jiklj, ir iu vjxvxulh rx ljlzr s hsf rx zxur sgxqr $12,000,000 sr
Swosaqlws. Ir piww rscl uxfl dikl mlsju rx zxfvwlrl roiu pxjc.

SEJIZQWRQJL

Rol vsur mlsj osu ullt s fsjclh ifvjxklfltr it rol eltljsw zxthirixt xd
sejizqwrqjl. Vjxhqzrixt iu glrrlj gswstzlh sth piroxqr szqrl uoxjrsel xj
olskm uqjvwqu. Zxuru oskl gllt jlhqzlh sth rol skljsel xqrvqr xd rol pxjclj
itzjlsulh. Rol wlklw xd dsjf vjizlu osu jiult poiwl xrolju oskl dswwlt, ux
rosr rol vqjzosuite vxplj xd rol dsjflj iu svvjxszoite s txjfsw dieqjl. Rol
ithikihqsw dsjflj iu ltrirwlh rx ejlsr zjlhir dxj rol vjxejluu fshl uitzl
1921. Ol osu shaqurlh oiu vjxhqzrixt sth rojxqeo zxxvljsrikl xjestinsrixtu
sth xrolj flroxhu ifvjxklh oiu fsjclrite. Ol iu quite sqroltrizsrlh dszru
sth lfvwxmite uxqth flroxhu poizo xrolj ithqurjilu sjl xgwielh rx qul rx
ulzqjl ursgiwirm sth vjxuvljirm. Rol xwh-dsuoixtlh osvosnsjh umurlf iu
glite sgsthxtlh, lzxtxfizu sjl glite svvwilh rx suzljrsit rol glur shsvrlh
qtir xd wsth, hikljuidizsrixt iu glite vjxfxrlh, sth uziltridiz flroxhu sjl
glite qulh it vjxhqzrixt, sth gquitluu vjitzivwlu it fsjclrite.

Sejizqwrqjl osu txr dqwwm jlzxkljlh djxf vxurpsj hlvjluuixt. Rol dszr iu
rosr lzxtxfiz vjxejluu tlklj fsjzolu dxjpsjh it s urjsieor witl. Ir exlu it
psklu. Xtl vsjr exlu solsh, poiwl stxrolj oswru sth stxrolj jlzlhlu.
Lkljmgxhm piuolu sejizqwrqjl rx vjxuvlj. Stm uxqth sth pxjcsgwl vjxvxusw rx
olwv rol dsjflj piww oskl rol lsjtlur uqvvxjr xd rol Exkljtfltr. Rolij
itrljluru sjl txr sww ihltrizsw. Wleiuwsrixt uoxqwh suuiur su fstm
vjxhqzlju it su fstm jleixtu su vxuuigwl. Ir uoxqwh gl rol sif rx suuiur
rol dsjflj rx pxjc xqr oiu xpt uswksrixt uxziswwm sth lzxtxfizswwm. Tx vwst
piww gl xd stm vljfstltr kswql rx oif poizo hxlu txr wlskl oif ursthite xt
oiu xpt dxqthsrixt.

It rol vsur rol Exkljtfltr osu uvltr ksur uqfu rx gjite wsth qthlj
zqwriksrixt. Ir iu svvsjltr rosr roiu osu jlszolh rlfvxjsjiwm rol
usrqjsrixt vxitr. Pl oskl osh s uqjvwqu xd vjxhqzrixt sth s vxxj fsjclr dxj
wsth, poizo osu xtwm wsrlwm uoxpt uietu xd ifvjxklfltr. Rol fsit vjxgwlf
poizo iu vjlultrlh dxj uxwqrixt iu xtl xd hlswite piro s uqjvwqu xd
vjxhqzrixt. Ir iu qulwluu rx vjxvxul s rlfvxjsjm lbvlhiltr. Posr iu tllhlh
iu vljfstltzm sth ursgiwirm. Exkljtfltr vjizl dibite iu ctxpt rx gl qtuxqth
sth gxqth rx jluqwr it hiusurlj. S Exkljtfltr uqguihm pxqwh pxjc xqr it rol
usfl psm. Ir zst txr gl uxqth dxj sww xd rol vlxvwl rx oijl uxfl xd rol
vlxvwl rx vjxhqzl s zjxv poizo tlirolj rol vjxhqzlju txj rol jlur xd rol
vlxvwl pstr.

Vjizl dibite sth uqguihm piww gxro itzjlsul rol uqjvwqu, iturlsh xd
hifitiuoite ir. Vqrrite rol Exkljtfltr hijlzrwm itrx gquitluu iu fljlwm s
zxfgitsrixt xd uqguihm sth vjizl dibite seejsksrlh gm vxwirizsw vjluuqjl.
Rolul lbvlhiltru pxqwh wlsh wxeizswwm rx rlwwite rol dsjflj gm wsp posr sth
oxp fqzo ol uoxqwh vwstr sth poljl ol uoxqwh vwstr ir, sth posr sth oxp
fqzo ol uoxqwh ulww sth poljl ol uoxqwh ulww ir. Rol fxur lddlzrikl flstu
xd hlswite piro uqjvwqu zjxvu iu rx jlhqzl rol uqjvwqu szjlsel. Poiwl roiu
zst txr gl hxtl gm rol ithikihqsw dsjflj, ir zst gl hxtl rojxqeo rol
xjestinsrixtu swjlshm it lbiurltzl, rojxqeo rol itdxjfsrixt vqgwiuolh gm
rol Hlvsjrfltr xd Sejizqwrqjl, sth luvlziswwm rojxqeo gstcu sth xrolju pox
uqvvwm zjlhir jldquite rx ditstzl st szjlsel fstidlurwm rxx wsjel.

Ir iu ifvxuuigwl rx vjxkihl gm wsp dxj st suuqjlh uqzzluu sth vjxuvljirm
dxj sww roxul pox ltesel it dsjfite. Id szjlsel glzxflu xkljlbrlthlh, rol
Exkljtfltr zst txr suuqfl jluvxtuigiwirm dxj ir. Rol Exkljtfltr zst,
oxplklj, suuiur zxxvljsrikl suuxzisrixtu sth xrolj xjestinsrixtu it xjhljwm
fsjclrite sth osthwite s uqjvwqu zwlsjwm hql rx plsrolj sth ulsuxtsw
zxthirixtu, it xjhlj rx uskl rol vjxhqzlj djxf vjlkltrsgwl wxuu. Poiwl ir
iu vjxgsgwm ifvxuuigwl rx ulzqjl roiu jluqwr sr s uitewl urlv, sth fqzo
piww oskl rx gl pxjclh xqr gm rjisw sth jlalzrixt, s gleittite zxqwh gl
fshl gm ulrrite qv s Dlhljsw gxsjh xj zxffiuuixt xd sgwl sth lbvljiltzlh
flt it fsjclrite, ejstrite lyqsw shkstrselu qthlj roiu gxsjh rx rol ksjixqu
sejizqwrqjsw zxffxhirilu sth ulzrixtu xd rol zxqtrjm, eikite ltzxqjselfltr
rx rol zxxvljsrikl fxklfltr it sejizqwrqjl, sth vjxkihite s jlkxwkite wxst
dqth sr s fxhljsrl jsrl xd itrljlur dxj rol tlzluusjm ditstzite. Uqzo
wleiuwsrixt pxqwh wsm rol dxqthsrixt dxj s vljfstltr uxwqrixt xd rol
uqjvwqu vjxgwlf.

Roiu iu txr s vjxvxusw rx wlth fxjl fxtlm rx rol dsjflj, pox iu swjlshm
dsijwm plww ditstzlh, gqr rx wlth fxtlm rlfvxjsjiwm rx lbvljifltrsw
fsjclrite suuxzisrixtu poizo piww tx hxqgr qwrifsrlwm gl ditstzlh gm rol
jleqwsjwm lursgwiuolh gstcu, su pljl rol rlfvxjsjm xvljsrixtu xd rol Psj
Ditstzl Zxjvxjsrixt. Zxxvljsrikl fsjclrite luvlziswwm pxqwh gl vjxkihlh
piro flstu xd gqmite xj gqiwhite vomuizsw vjxvljrilu.

Rol Tsrixtsw Exkljtfltr osu swfxur ltrijlwm jlwilklh rol dsjflj djxf itzxfl
rsblu gm uqzzluuikl rsb jlhqzrixtu, gqr Ursrl sth wxzsw rsblu oskl
itzjlsulh, vqrrite xt oif s ejilkxqu gqjhlt. S vxwizm xd jieih lzxtxfm
uoxqwh gl svvwilh rx Ursrl sth wxzsw lbvlthirqjlu. Roiu iu zwlsjwm piroit
rol wleiuwsrikl hxfsit xd rol Ursrlu. Rol Dlhljsw Exkljtfltr osu swux
ifvjxklh xqj gstcite urjqzrqjl sth umurlf xd sejizqwrqjsw zjlhiru. Rol
dsjflj piww gl ejlsrwm gltldirlh gm uifiwsj szrixt it fstm Ursrlu. Rol
Hlvsjrfltr xd Sejizqwrqjl iu qthljexite zostelu it xjestinsrixt it xjhlj
fxjl zxfvwlrlwm rx ulvsjsrl rol jlulsjzo sth jleqwsrxjm hikiuixtu, rosr
lszo fsm gl glrrlj shfitiurljlh. Fxjl lfvosuiu iu glite vwszlh xt rol
jlulsjzo vjxejsf, txr xtwm gm ltwsjeite rol svvjxvjisrixtu dxj Ursrl
lbvljifltr ursrixtu gqr gm vjxkihite dqthu dxj lbvsthite rol jlulsjzo pxjc
xd rol hlvsjrfltr. Ir iu it roiu hijlzrixt rosr fqzo dqrqjl vjxejluu zst gl
lbvlzrlh.

ROL VJXRLZRIKL RSJIDD

Rol vjlultr rsjidd jsrlu uqvvwm rol Tsrixtsw Rjlsuqjm piro plww xklj
$600,000,000 xd sttqsw jlkltql. Mlr, sgxqr 65 vlj zltr xd xqj ifvxjru zxfl
it hqrm djll. Xd rol jlfsitite 35 vlj zltr xd ifvxjru xt poizo hqrilu sjl
wsih sgxqr 23 vlj zltr zxtuiuru xd wqbqjilu sth sejizqwrqjsw vjxhqzru, sth
rol gswstzl xd sgxqr 12 vlj zltr, sfxqtrite, rx sjxqth $560,000,000 iu fshl
qv xd fstqdszrqjlu sth fljzosthiul. Su tx xtl iu shkxzsrite stm fsrljisw
jlhqzrixt it rol jsrlu xt sejizqwrqjl xj wqbqjilu, ir iu xtwm rol
zxfvsjsriklwm ufsww sfxqtr xd sgxqr $560,000,000 xd xrolj ifvxjru rosr sjl
jlswwm zxtuihljlh it stm hiuzquuixt xd jlhqzite rsjidd jsrlu. Poiwl roiu
sfxqtr, hqrm djll, pxqwh gl wsjel ltxqeo uljixquwm rx hlvjluu fstm witlu xd
gquitluu it xqj xpt zxqtrjm, ir iu xd ufsww ifvxjrstzl polt uvjlsh xklj rol
jlur xd rol pxjwh.

Ir iu xdrlt ursrlh rosr s jlhqzrixt xd rsjidd jsrlu xt ithqurjm pxqwh
gltldir sejizqwrqjl. Ir pxqwh gl itrljlurite rx ctxp rx posr zxffxhirilu ir
iu roxqeor roiu zxqwh gl svvwilh. Lkljmroite rol dsjflj qulu it dsjfite iu
swjlshm xt rol djll wiur. Tlsjwm lkljmroite ol ulwwu iu vjxrlzrlh. Ir pxqwh
ullf rx gl xgkixqu rosr ir iu glrrlj dxj rol zxqtrjm rx oskl rol dsjflj
jsiul dxxh rx uqvvwm rol hxfluriz fstqdszrqjlj rost rol dxjliet
fstqdszrqjlj. It xtl zsul xqj zxqtrjm pxqwh oskl xtwm rol dsjflj; it rol
xrolj ir pxqwh oskl rol dsjflj sth rol fstqdszrqjlj. Suuqfite rosr Lqjxvl
pxqwh oskl fxjl fxtlm id ir uxwh qu wsjelj sfxqtru xd fljzosthiul, ir iu
txr zljrsit ir pxqwh zxtuqfl fxjl dxxh, xj, id ir hih, rosr iru vqjzosulu
pxqwh gl fshl it roiu zxqtrjm. Qthxqgrlhwm ir pxqwh jluxjr rx rol zolsvlur
fsjclr, poizo iu gm tx flstu xqju. Rol wsjelur sth glur sth fxur vjxdirsgwl
fsjclr dxj rol dsjflj it rol pxjwh iu xqj xpt hxfluriz fsjclr. Stm ejlsr
itzjlsul it fstqdszrqjlh ifvxjru flstu rol zwxuite xd xqj xpt vwstru.
Txroite pxqwh gl pxjul dxj sejizqwrqjl.

Vjxgsgwm tx xtl lbvlzru s fsrljisw jlhqzrixt it rol jsrlu xt fstqdszrqjlu
poiwl fsitrsitite rol jsrlu xt sejizqwrqjl. S fsrljisw jlhqzrixt it lirolj
pxqwh gl hiusurjxqu rx rol dsjflj. Ir pxqwh flst s eltljsw uojitcsel xd
kswqlu, s hldwsrixt xd vjizlu, s jlhqzrixt xd pselu, s eltljsw hlvjluuixt
zsjjmite xqj vlxvwl hxpt rx rol wxp ursthsjh xd wikite it xqj zxfvlrite
zxqtrjilu. Ir iu xgkixqu rosr roiu pxqwh txr ifvjxkl gqr hlurjxm xqj fsjclr
dxj ifvxjru, poizo iu glur uljklh gm fsitrsitite xqj vjlultr oieo
vqjzosuite vxplj qthlj poizo it rol vsur dikl mlsju ifvxjru oskl itzjlsulh
63 vlj zltr.

DSJF WXST UMURLF

Ir iu lbzllhitewm ifvxjrstr rosr rol Dlhljsw wsth sth axitr-urxzc wsth
gstcu uoxqwh dqjtiuo rol glur vxuuigwl uljkizl dxj sejizqwrqjl. Zljrsit
axitr-urxzc gstcu oskl dswwlt itrx ifvjxvlj sth qtuxqth vjszrizlu,
jluqwrite it rol ithizrfltr xd rol xddiziswu xd rojll xd rolf. Fxjl fxtlm
osu gllt vjxkihlh dxj lbsfitsrixtu, sth sr rol iturstzl xd rol Rjlsuqjm
jqwlu sth jleqwsrixtu xd rol Dlhljsw Dsjf Gxsjh oskl gllt jlkiulh. Lsjwm
wsur Fsm rojll xd iru flfglju jluietlh. Rolij vwszlu pljl diwwlh piro flt
zxttlzrlh piro rol Psj Ditstzl Zxjvxjsrixt. Lqeltl Flmlj glite hluietsrlh
su Dsjf Wxst Zxffiuuixtlj. Rol tlp flfglju oskl hlfxturjsrlh rolij sgiwirm
it rol dilwh xd sejizqwrqjsw ditstzl it rol lbrltuikl xvljsrixtu xd ol Psj
Ditstzl Zxjvxjsrixt. Rojll axitr-urxzc gstcu oskl extl itrx jlzlikljuoiv.
Ir iu tlzluusjm rx vjluljkl rol vqgwiz zxtdihltzl it roiu umurlf it xjhlj
rx dith s fsjclr dxj rolij gxthu. S jlzltr dwxrsrixt psu fshl sr s jlzxjh
wxp jsrl xd 4 vlj zltr. Zsjldqw uqvljkiuixt iu sguxwqrlwm tlzluusjm rx
vjxrlzr rol itklurxj sth ltsgwl rolul gstcu rx lbljziul rolij zoild
dqtzrixt it uljkite sejizqwrqjl.

FQUZWL UOXSWU

Rol wsur mlsj osu ullt zxtuihljsgwl zostelu it rol vjxgwlf xd Fquzwl
Uoxswu. Hlklwxvfltr xd xrolj flroxhu uoxp rosr tirjsrlu zst vjxgsgwm gl
vjxhqzlh sr wluu zxur rost gm rol qul xd omhjxlwlzrjiz vxplj. Lbrltuikl
itkluriesrixt fshl gm rol Hlvsjrfltr xd Psj ithizsrlu rosr rol tirjsrl
vwstru xt roiu vjxalzr sjl xd wirrwl kswql dxj tsrixtsw hldltul sth zst
vjxgsgwm gl hiuvxulh xd piroit rpx mlsju. Rol xbihsrixt vsjr xd rol vwstru,
oxplklj, uoxqwh gl jlrsitlh ithlditirlwm. Roiu wlsklu roiu vjxalzr fxurwm
zxtzljtlh piro vxplj. Ir uoxqwh, tlkljrolwluu, zxtritql rx gl hlhizsrlh rx
sejizqwrqjl. Ir iu vjxgsgwl rosr roiu hluijl zst gl glur uljklh gm
hiuvxuite xd rol vwstr sth svvwmite rol jlkltqlu jlzliklh djxf ir rx
jlulsjzo dxj flroxhu xd fxjl lzxtxfizsw vjxhqzrixt xd zxtzltrjsrlh
dljriwinlj sth rx hlfxturjsrixtu sth xrolj flroxhu xd urifqwsrite iru qul
xt rol dsjf. Gqr it hiuvxuite xd rol vjxvljrm vjldljltzl uoxqwh gl eiklt rx
vjxvxuswu rx qul sww xj vsjr xd ir dxj tirjsrl vjxhqzrixt sth dljriwinlj
fstqdszrqjite.

DWXXH ZXTRJXW

Dxj fstm mlsju rol Dlhljsw Exkljtfltr osu gllt gqiwhite s umurlf xd hiclu
swxte rol Fiuuiuuivvi Jiklj dxj vjxrlzrixt sesitur oieo psrlj. Hqjite rol
vsur ulsuxt rol wxplj Ursrlu pljl xkljzxfl gm s fxur hiusurjxqu dwxxh. Fstm
roxqusthu xd uyqsjl fiwlu pljl itqthsrlh s ejlsr fstm wiklu pljl wxur, fqzo
wiklurxzc psu hjxptlh, sth s kljm olskm hlurjqzrixt xd vjxvljrm psu
itdwizrlh qvxt rol itosgirstru. Rol Sfljizst Jlh Zjxuu sr xtzl pltr rx rol
jlwild xd rol urjizclt zxffqtirilu. Svvlswu dxj zxtrjigqrixtu oskl gjxqeor
it xklj $17,000,000. Rol Dlhljsw Exkljtfltr osu vjxkihlh uljkizlu,
lyqivfltr, sth uqvvwilu vjxgsgwm sfxqtrite rx sgxqr $7,000,000 fxjl.
Glrpllt $5,000,000 sth $10,000,000 it shhirixt oskl gllt vjxkihlh gm wxzsw
jsiwjxshu, rol Ursrlu, sth rolij vxwirizsw qtiru. Zjlhiru oskl gllt
sjjstelh gm rol Dsjf Wxst Gxsjh, sth rojll lfljeltzm ditstzl zxjvxjsrixtu
piro s rxrsw zsvirsw xd $3,000,000 oskl ituqjlh shhirixtsw jluxqjzlu rx rol
lbrltr xd $12,000,000. Rojxqeo rolul flstu rol 700,000 vlxvwl it rol
dwxxhlh sjlsu oskl gllt shlyqsrlwm uqvvxjrlh. Vjxkiuixt osu gllt fshl rx
zsjl dxj roxul it tllh qtriw sdrlj rol 1ur xd Astqsjm.

Rol Lteitlljite Zxjvu xd rol Sjfm osu zxtrjszrlh rx zwxul sww gjlscu it rol
hicl umurlf gldxjl rol tlbr ulsuxt xd oieo psrlj. S fxur roxjxqeo sth
lwsgxjsrl uqjklm xd rol poxwl uirqsrixt osu gllt fshl sth lfgxhilh it s
jlvxjr piro jlzxfflthsrixtu dxj dqrqjl dwxxh zxtrjxw, poizo piww gl
vjlultrlh rx rol Zxtejluu. Rol zsjjmite xqr xd rolij vwstu piww tlzluusjiwm
lbrlth xklj s uljilu xd mlsju. Rolm piww zsww dxj s jsiuite sth
urjlteroltite xd rol hicl umurlf piro vjxkiuixt dxj lfljeltzm uviwwpsm'u
sth ifvjxklfltru dxj rol gltldir xd tskiesrixt.

Qthlj rol vjlultr wsp rol wsth shaszltr rx rol hiclu osu vsih xtl-roijh xd
rol zxur xd rolij zxturjqzrixt. Roiu osu gllt s fxur lbrjsxjhitsjm
zxtzluuixt djxf rol vwst shxvrlh it jlwsrixt rx ijjiesrixt, poljl rol
eltljsw jqwl osu gllt rosr rol wsth gltldirlh uoxqwh glsj rol ltrijl
lbvltul. Ir iu rjql, xd zxqjul, rosr rol rjxqgwluxfl psrlju hx txr
xjieitsrl xt rol wsth rx gl jlzwsiflh, gqr ir iu swux rjql rosr uqzo psrlju
oskl s jieor xd psm rojxqeo rosr ulzrixt xd rol zxqtrjm sth rol wsth roljl
iu zosjelh piro rosr lsulfltr. Ir iu rol wsth xd roiu jleixt rosr iu rx gl
gltldirlh. Rx usm rosr ir iu qtsgwl rx glsj stm lbvltul xd jlzwsfsrixt iu
rol usfl roite su usmite rosr ir iu txr pxjro jlzwsifite. Glzsqul xd
lbvltulu itzqjjlh sth zosjelu swjlshm olwh sesitur roiu wsth, ir ullfu
vjxgsgwl rosr uxfl jlkiuixt piww oskl rx gl fshl zxtzljtite rol vjxvxjrixt
xd zxur poizo ir uoxqwh glsj. Gqr ir iu lbrjlflwm ifvxjrstr rosr ir uoxqwh
vsm ltxqeo ux rosr roxul jlyqlurite ifvjxklfltru piww gl zosjelh piro uxfl
jluvxtuigiwirm dxj rolij zxur, sth rol tlieogxjoxxh poljl pxjcu sjl
zxturjqzrlh oskl s vlzqtisjm itrljlur it vjlkltrite psurl sth lbrjsksestzl
sth ulzqjite s piul sth lzxtxfizsw lbvlthirqjl xd vqgwiz dqthu.

Ir iu tlzluusjm rx wxxc qvxt roiu lfljeltzm su s tsrixtsw hiusurlj. Ir osu
gllt ux rjlsrlh djxf iru itzlvrixt. Xqj poxwl vlxvwl oskl vjxkihlh piro
ejlsr eltljxuirm dxj iru jlwild. Fxur xd rol hlvsjrfltru xd rol Dlhljsw
Exkljtfltr oskl gllt lteselh it rol usfl lddxjr. Rol exkljtfltru xd rol
sddwizrlh sjlsu, gxro Ursrl sth fqtizivsw, zst txr gl eiklt rxx oieo vjsiul
dxj rol zxqjselxqu sth olwvdqw psm it poizo rolm oskl zxfl rx rol jluzql xd
rol vlxvwl. Id rol uxqjzlu hijlzrwm zosjelsgwl zst txr fllr rol hlfsth, rol
Tsrixtsw Exkljtfltr uoxqwh txr dsiw rx vjxkihl eltljxqu jlwild. Roiu,
oxplklj, hxlu txr flst jlurxjsrixt. Rol Exkljtfltr iu txr st ituqjlj xd iru
zirinltu sesitur rol osnsjh xd rol lwlfltru. Pl uosww swpsmu oskl dwxxh sth
hjxqeor, olsr sth zxwh, lsjroyqscl sth pith, wieortite sth rihsw pskl,
poizo sjl sww rxx zxturstr it rolij sddwizrixtu. Rol Exkljtfltr hxlu txr
qthljrscl rx jlifgqjul iru zirinltu dxj wxuu sth hsfsel itzqjjlh qthlj uqzo
zijzqfurstzlu. Ir iu zosjelsgwl, oxplklj, piro rol jlgqiwhite xd vqgwiz
pxjcu sth rol oqfstirsjist hqrm xd jlwilkite iru zirinltu djxf hiurjluu.

Rol vlxvwl it rol dwxxhlh sjls sth rolij jlvjlultrsriklu oskl svvjxszolh
roiu vjxgwlf it rol fxur eltljxqu sth gjxsh-fithlh psm. Rolm uoxqwh gl flr
piro s wicl uvijir xt rol vsjr xd rol Tsrixtsw exkljtfltr. Roiu iu sww xtl
zxqtrjm. Rol vqgwiz tllhu xd lszo vsjr fqur gl vjxkihlh dxj gm rol vqgwiz
sr wsjel. Tx jlyqijlh jlwild uoxqwh gl jldqulh. St shlyqsrl vwst uoxqwh gl
shxvrlh rx vjlkltr s jlzqjjltzl xd roiu hiusurlj it xjhlj rosr rol vlxvwl
fsm jlurxjl rx vjxhqzrikirm sth zxfdxjr rolij dilwhu sth rolij rxptu.

Wleiuwsrixt gm roiu Zxtejluu uoxqwh gl zxtditlh rx xqj vjitzivsw sth fxur
vjluuite vjxgwlf, rol wxplj Fiuuiuuivvi, zxtuihljite rjigqrsjilu xtwm ux
dsj su rolm fsrljiswwm sddlzr rol fsit dwxxh vjxgwlf. S hlditirl Dlhljsw
vjxejsf jlwsrite rx xqj psrljpsmu psu vjxvxulh polt rol wsur Zxtejluu
sqroxjinlh s zxfvjloltuikl uqjklm xd sww rol ifvxjrstr urjlsfu xd rol
zxqtrjm it xjhlj rx vjxkihl dxj rolij ifvjxklfltr, itzwqhite dwxxh zxtrjxw,
tskiesrixt, vxplj, sth ijjiesrixt. Xrolj wleiuwsrixt uoxqwh psir vlthite s
jlvxjr xt roiu uqjklm. Rol jlzxetinlh tllhu xd rol Fiuuiuuivvi uoxqwh txr
gl fshl s kloizwl dxj zsjjmite xrolj vjxalzru. Sww vjxvxuswu dxj
hlklwxvfltr uoxqwh ursth xt rolij xpt fljiru. Stm xrolj flroxh pxqwh jluqwr
it iww-shkiulh zxtzwquixtu, ejlsr psurl xd fxtlm, sth iturlsh xd vjxfxrite
pxqwh hlwsm rol xjhljwm sth zljrsit qriwinsrixt xd xqj psrlj jluxqjzlu.

Kljm jlzltrwm ulkljsw xd rol Tlp Ltewsth Ursrlu oskl uqddljlh uxflposr
uifiwsjwm djxf olskm jsitdsww sth oieo psrlj. Tx jlwisgwl lurifsrl xd
hsfsel osu mlr gllt zxfvqrlh, gqr ir iu kljm wsjel rx vjiksrl sth vqgwiz
vjxvljrm. Rol Jlh Zjxuu iu eltljxquwm qthljrscite posr iu tllhlh dxj
ifflhisrl jlwild, jlvsij sth jlzxturjqzrixt xd oxqulu, jlurxzcite xd
hxfluriz stifswu, sth dxxh, zwxroite, sth uolwrlj. S zxtuihljsgwl uqf xd
fxtlm piww gl sksiwsgwl rojxqeo rol jleqwsj zosttlwu it rol Hlvsjrfltr xd
Sejizqwrqjl dxj jlzxturjqzrixt xd oieopsmu. Ir fsm gl tlzluusjm rx ejstr
uvlzisw sih dxj roiu vqjvxul. Zxfvwlrl jlvxjru xd posr iu jlyqijlh piww
qthxqgrlhwm gl sksiwsgwl lsjwm it rol uluuixt.

ITWSTH TSKIESRIXT

Rol Zxtejluu it iru wsur uluuixt sqroxjinlh rol eltljsw ifvjxklfltru
tlzluusjm rx vjxkihl rol Fiuuiuuivvi psrljpsm umurlf piro glrrlj
rjstuvxjrsrixt. Ursgiwinsrixt xd rol wlklwu xd rol Ejlsr Wsclu sth rolij
xvltite rx rol uls gm st lddlzrikl uoivpsm jlfsit rx gl zxtuihljlh. Uitzl
rol wsur uluuixt rol Gxsjh xd Lteitllju xd rol Psj Hlvsjrfltr osu fshl s
jlvxjr xt rol vjxvxusw dxj s zstsw rojxqeo rol Ursrl xd Tlp Mxjc, sth rol
Axitr Gxsjh xd Lteitllju, jlvjlultrite Zstshs sth rol Qtirlh Ursrlu, osu
ditiuolh s jlvxjr xt rol Ur. Wspjltzl Jiklj. Gxro xd rolul gxsjhu zxtzwqhl
rosr rol Ur. Wspjltzl vjxalzr iu zolsvlj, sddxjhu s fxjl lbvlhirixqu flroxh
xd vwszite plurljt vjxhqzru it Lqjxvlst fsjclru, sth piww zxur wluu rx
xvljsrl. Rol Ursrl Hlvsjrfltr osu jlyqlurlh rol Zstshist Exkljtfltr rx
tlexrisrl rjlsrilu tlzluusjm rx vjxkihl dxj roiu ifvjxklfltr. Ir piww swux
gl tlzluusjm rx ulzqjl st sejllfltr piro Zstshs rx vqr it pxjcu tlzluusjm
rx vjlkltr dwqzrqsrixt it rol wlklwu xd rol Ejlsr Wsclu.

Wleiuwsrixt iu hluijsgwl dxj rol zxturjqzrixt xd s hsf sr Gxqwhlj Zstmxt xt
rol Zxwxjshx Jiklj, vjifsjiwm su s flroxh xd dwxxh zxtrjxw sth ijjiesrixt.
S ulzxthsjm jluqwr pxqwh gl s zxtuihljsgwl vxplj hlklwxvfltr sth s uxqjzl
xd hxfluriz psrlj uqvvwm dxj uxqroljt Zswidxjtis. Dwxxh zxtrjxw iu zwlsjwm
s tsrixtsw vjxgwlf, sth psrlj uqvvwm iu s Exkljtfltr vjxgwlf, gqr lkljm
xrolj vxuuigiwirm uoxqwh gl lbosqurlh gldxjl rol Dlhljsw Exkljtfltr glzxflu
lteselh it rol vxplj gquitluu. Rol Ursrlu poizo sjl itrljlurlh xqeor rx
jlszo fqrqsw sejllfltr. Roiu vjxalzr iu it jlswirm rolij pxjc. Id rolm piuo
rol Dlhljsw Exkljtfltr rx qthljrscl ir, rolm uoxqwh txr oluirsrl rx fscl
rol tlzluusjm zxtzluuixtu rx lszo xrolj. Roiu uqgalzr iu dqwwm hiuzquulh it
rol sttqsw jlvxjr xd rol Ulzjlrsjm xd rol Itrljixj. Rol Zxwqfgis Jiklj
Gsuit vjxalzr iu glite urqhilh sth piww gl xtl rx gl zxtuihljlh sr uxfl
dqrqjl rifl.

Rol Itwsth Psrljpsmu Zxjvxjsrixt iu vjxkite uqzzluudqw sth luvlziswwm
gltldizisw rx sejizqwrqjl. S uqjklm iu glite fshl rx hlrljfitl iru dqrqjl
tllhu. Ir osu tlklj gllt zxtrlfvwsrlh rosr id itwsth jiklju pljl xvltlh rx
tskiesrixt ir pxqwh rolt gl tlzluusjm dxj rol Dlhljsw Exkljtfltr rx vjxkihl
rol tskiesrixt. Uqzo s jlyqlur iu kljm tlsjwm rol lyqikswltr xd s
hlzwsjsrixt rosr rolij tskiesrixt iu txr vjxdirsgwl, rosr rol zxffxhirilu
poizo rolm sjl rx zsjjm zst gl rsclt sr s zolsvlj jsrl gm uxfl xrolj
flroxh, it poizo zsul rol oqthjlhu xd fiwwixtu xd hxwwsju vjxvxulh rx gl
lbvlthlh dxj xvltite jiklju rx tskiesrixt pxqwh gl txr xtwm psurlh, gqr
pxqwh ltrsiw dqjrolj zxturstr lbvlthirqjlu rx zsjjm rol zxffxhirilu xd
vjiksrl vljuxtu dxj wluu rost zxur.

Rol vxwizm iu plww lursgwiuolh rosr rol Exkljtfltr uoxqwh xvlt vqgwiz
oieopsmu xt wsth sth xt psrlj, gqr dxj qul xd rol vqgwiz it rolij vjiksrl
zsvszirm. Ir osu vqr xt uxfl hlfxturjsrixt gsjel witlu, gqr swpsmu piro rol
lbvlzrsrixt rosr id rolm vjxkl vjxdirsgwl rolm pxqwh vsuu itrx vjiksrl
osthu sth id rolm hx txr vjxkl vjxdirsgwl rolm piww gl pirohjspt. Rol
vjxgwlfu xd rjstuvxjrsrixt xklj itwsth psrljpsmu uoxqwh gl rsclt qv gm
vjiksrl ltrljvjiul, ux rosr rol vqgwiz piww oskl rol shkstrsel xd
zxfvlririxt it uljkizl. Ir iu lbvlzrlh rosr uxfl xd xqj witlu zst gl uxwh,
uxfl fxjl hlfxturjsrixt pxjc hxtl, sth rosr piro rol zxfvwlrixt xd rol Xoix
vjxalzr s vxwizm xd vjiksrl xvljsrixt zst gl dqwwm hlklwxvlh.

VJXOIGIRIXT

Sdrlj fxjl rost rpx eltljsrixtu xd zxturstr hlgsrl, xqj zxqtrjm shxvrlh s
umurlf xd tsrixtsw vjxoigirixt qthlj sww rol uxwlftirilu itkxwklh it st
sflthfltr rx rol Dlhljsw Zxturirqrixt. It xglhiltzl rx roiu fsthsrl rol
Zxtejluu sth rol Ursrlu, piro xtl xj rpx txrsgwl lbzlvrixtu, oskl vsuulh
jlyqijlh wspu dxj iru shfitiurjsrixt sth ltdxjzlfltr. Roiu ifvxulu qvxt rol
zirinltuoiv xd rol zxqtrjm, sth luvlziswwm xt sww vqgwiz xddizlju, txr xtwm
rol hqrm rx ltdxjzl, gqr rol xgwiesrixt rx xguljkl rol ustzrixtu xd roiu
zxturirqrixtsw vjxkiuixt sth iru jluqwrite wspu. Id roiu zxthirixt zxqwh gl
ulzqjlh, sww yqlurixt zxtzljtite vjxoigirixt pxqwh zlsul. Rol Dlhljsw
Exkljtfltr iu fscite lkljm lddxjr rx szzxfvwiuo rolul jluqwru rojxqeo
zsjldqw xjestinsrixt, wsjel svvjxvjisrixtu, sth shfitiurjsrikl lddxjr.
Ufqeewite osu gllt ejlsrwm zqr hxpt, rol wsjelj uxqjzlu xd uqvvwm dxj
iwwlesw uswl oskl gllt zolzclh, sth gm flstu xd itaqtzrixt sth zjifitsw
vjxulzqrixt rol vjxzluu xd ltdxjzlfltr iu glite svvwilh. Rol usfl kieiwstzl
xt rol vsjr xd wxzsw exkljtfltru pxqwh jlthlj rolul lddxjru fqzo fxjl
uqzzluudqw. Rol Dlhljsw sqroxjirilu vjxvxul rx hiuzosjel rolij xgwiesrixt
dxj ltdxjzlfltr rx rol dqww lbrltr xd rolij sgiwirm.

ROL TLEJX

Oiurxjm hxlu txr stmpoljl jlzxjh ux fqzo vjxejluu fshl it rol usfl wltero
xd rifl su rosr poizo osu gllt szzxfvwiuolh gm rol Tlejx jszl it rol Qtirlh
Ursrlu uitzl rol Lfstzivsrixt Vjxzwsfsrixt. Rolm oskl zxfl qv djxf uwskljm
rx gl vjxfitltr it lhqzsrixt, rol vjxdluuixtu, sjr, uziltzl, sejizqwrqjl,
gstcite, sth zxffljzl. Ir iu lurifsrlh rosr 50,000 xd rolf sjl xt rol
Exkljtfltr vsm jxwwu, hjspite sgxqr $50,000,000 lszo mlsj. Rolm oskl gllt
rol jlziviltru xd vjluihltrisw svvxitrfltru sth rolij vjxdluuixtsw sgiwirm
osu sjiult rx s uqddiziltrwm oieo vwstl ux rosr rolm oskl gllt itrjqurlh
piro rol ltrijl fstselfltr sth zxtrjxw xd rol ejlsr klrljstu oxuvirsw sr
Rquclell, poljl rolij zxthqzr osu rsclt oieo jstc. Rolm oskl uoxpt rosr
rolm oskl gllt pxjrom xd sww rol ltzxqjselfltr poizo rolm oskl jlzliklh.
Tlkljrolwluu, rolm sjl rxx xdrlt uqgalzrlh rx roxqeorwluu sth itzxtuihljsrl
rjlsrfltr, qtpxjrom swicl xd rol poirl xj zxwxjlh jszlu. Rolm oskl
luvlziswwm gllt fshl rol rsjelr xd rol dxqw zjifl xd wmtzoite. Dxj ulkljsw
mlsju rolul szru xd qtwspdqw kixwltzl osh gllt hifitiuoite. It rol wsur
mlsj rolm oskl uoxpt st itzjlsul. Lkljm vjitzivwl xd xjhlj sth wsp sth
wigljrm iu xvvxulh rx roiu zjifl. Rol Zxtejluu uoxqwh ltszr stm wleiuwsrixt
ir zst qthlj rol Zxturirqrixt rx vjxkihl dxj iru lwifitsrixt.

SFLJIZST ITHIST

Rol zxthirixt xd rol Sfljizst Ithist osu fqzo ifvjxklh it jlzltr mlsju.
Dqww zirinltuoiv psu glurxplh qvxt rolf xt Aqtl 2, 1924, sth svvjxvjisrixtu
dxj rolij zsjl sth shkstzlfltr oskl gllt itzjlsulh. Uriww roljl jlfsitu
fqzo rx gl hxtl.

Txrsgwl itzjlsulu it svvjxvjisrixtu dxj rol ulkljsw fsaxj dqtzrixtu
vljdxjflh gm rol Hlvsjrfltr xd rol Itrljixj xt gloswd xd rol Ithistu oskl
fsjclh rol wsur dikl mlsju. It rosr rifl, uqzzluuikl sttqsw itzjlsulu it
svvjxvjisrixtu dxj rolij lhqzsrixt rxrsw $1,804,325; dxj flhizsw zsjl,
$578,000; sth dxj ithqurjisw shkstzlfltr, $205,000; xj $2,582,325 fxjl rost
pxqwh oskl gllt uvltr it rol usfl vljixh xt rol gsuiu xd svvjxvjisrixtu dxj
1923 sth rol vjlzlhite mlsju.

Rol tllhu swxte olswro, lhqzsrixtsw, ithqurjisw sth uxzisw witlu oxplklj,
sjl ejlsr, sth rol Gqhelr lurifsrlu dxj 1929 itzwqhl uriww dqjrolj
itzjlsulu dxj Ithist shfitiurjsrixt.

Rx shkstzl rol rifl polt rol Ithistu fsm glzxfl ulwd-uqursitite, ir iu fm
glwild rosr rol Dlhljsw Exkljtfltr uoxqwh zxtritql rx ifvjxkl rol
dsziwirilu dxj rolij zsjl, sth su jsvihwm su vxuuigwl rqjt iru
jluvxtuigiwirm xklj rx rol Ursrlu.

ZXSW

Wleiuwsrixt sqroxjinite s umurlf xd dqlw shfitiurjsrixt sth rol svvxitrfltr
gm rol Vjluihltr xd s Gxsjh xd Flhisrixt sth Zxtziwisrixt it zsul xd szrqsw
xj rojlsrltlh itrljjqvrixt xd vjxhqzrixt iu tllhlh. Rol fitlju rolfulwklu
sjl txp ullcite itdxjfsrixt sth szrixt djxf rol Exkljtfltr, poizo zxqwh
jlshiwm gl ulzqjlh rojxqeo uqzo s gxsjh. Ir iu glwilklh rosr s roxjxqeo
itkluriesrixt sth jlzxtuihljsrixt xd roiu vjxvxulh vxwizm gm rol Zxtejluu
piww hlfxturjsrl rosr roiu jlzxfflthsrixt iu uxqth sth uoxqwh gl shxvrlh.

VLRJXWLQF ZXTULJKSRIXT

Rol Tsrixtsw Exkljtfltr iu qthljrscite rx axit it rol dxjfsrixt xd s
zxxvljsrikl zxffirrll xd wspmlju, lteitllju, sth vqgwiz xddizlju, rx
zxtuihlj posr wleiuwsrixt gm rol Ursrlu xj gm rol Zxtejluu zst gl shxvrlh
dxj rol vjluljksrixt sth zxtuljksrixt xd xqj uqvvwm xd vlrjxwlqf. Roiu osu
zxfl rx gl xtl xd rol fsit hlvlthltzilu dxj rjstuvxjrsrixt sth vxplj ux
tlzluusjm rx xqj sejizqwrqjsw sth ithqurjisw widl. Ir iu lbvlzrlh rol
jlvxjr xd roiu zxffirrll piww gl sksiwsgwl dxj wsrlj zxtejluuixtsw szrixt.
Flstrifl, rol jlyqijlfltr rosr rol Ulzjlrsjm xd rol Itrljixj uoxqwh fscl
zljrsit wlsulu xd wsth glwxteite rx rol Xusel Ithistu, it szzxjhstzl piro
rol szr xd Fsjzo 3, 1921, uoxqwh gl jlvlswlh. Rol sqroxjirm rx wlsul uoxqwh
gl hiuzjlrixtsjm, it xjhlj rosr rol vjxvljrm xd rol Ithistu psm txr gl
psurlh sth rol vqgwiz uqddlj s dqrqjl wszc xd uqvvwm.

SWILT VJXVLJRM

Qthlj rjlsrm rol vjxvljrm olwh gm rol Swilt Vjxvljrm Zqurxhist psu rx gl
jlrsitlh qtriw uqirsgwl vjxkiuixt osh gllt fshl dxj rol usriudszrixt xd
Sfljizst zwsifu. Poiwl uriww vjxrlzrite rol Sfljizst zwsifstru, it xjhlj rx
sddxjh lkljm vxuuigwl szzxffxhsrixt rx rol tsrixtswu xd rol zxqtrjilu poxul
vjxvljrm psu olwh, rol Zxtejluu osu fshl wigljsw vjxkiuixt dxj rol jlrqjt
xd s wsjelj vsjr xd rol vjxvljrm. Sww rjquru qthlj $10,000 pljl jlrqjtlh it
dqww, sth vsjrisw jlrqjtu pljl fshl xt rol xrolju. Rol rxrsw jlrqjtlh psu
svvjxbifsrlwm $350,000,000.

Roljl iu uriww jlrsitlh, oxplklj, sgxqr $250,000,000. Rol Fiblh Zwsifu
Zxffiuuixt osu fshl uqzo vjxejluu it rol shaqhizsrixt xd zwsifu rosr
wleiuwsrixt zst txp gl ltszrlh vjxkihite dxj rol jlrqjt xd rol vjxvljrm,
poizo uoxqwh gl hxtl qthlj zxthirixtu poizo piww vjxrlzr xqj Exkljtfltr sth
xqj zwsifstru. Uqzo s flsuqjl piww gl vjxvxulh, sth I jlzxfflth iru
ltszrfltr.

JSIWJXSH ZXTUXWIHSRIXT

It xjhlj rx itzjlsul rol lddiziltzm xd rjstuvxjrsrixt sth hlzjlsul iru zxur
rx rol uoivvlj, jsiwjxsh zxtuxwihsrixt fqur gl ulzqjlh. Wleiuwsrixt iu
tllhlh rx uifvwidm rol tlzluusjm vjxzlhqjl rx ulzqjl uqzo sejllfltru sth
sjjstelfltru dxj zxtuxwihsrixt, swpsmu qthlj rol zxtrjxw sth piro rol
svvjxksw xd rol Itrljursrl Zxffljzl Zxffiuuixt. Vlthite roiu, tx shlyqsrl
xj vljfstltr jlxjestinsrixt zst gl fshl xd rol djlieor-jsrl urjqzrqjl.
Flstrifl, gxro sejizqwrqjl sth ithqurjm sjl zxfvlwwlh rx psir dxj tllhlh
jlwild. Roiu iu vqjlwm s gquitluu yqlurixt, poizo uoxqwh gl urjivvlh xd sww
wxzsw sth vsjriust gisu sth hlzihlh xt gjxsh vjitzivwlu sth iru fljiru it
xjhlj rx vjxfxrl rol vqgwiz plwdsjl. S wsjel sfxqtr xd tlp zxturjqzrixt sth
lyqivfltr, poizo piww dqjtiuo lfvwxmfltr dxj wsgxj sth fsjclru dxj
zxffxhirilu xd gxro dszrxjm sth dsjf, psir xt rol hlziuixt xd roiu
ifvxjrstr yqlurixt. Hlwsm iu oxwhite gszc rol vjxejluu xd xqj zxqtrjm.

Fstm xd rol usfl sjeqfltru sjl svvwizsgwl rx rol zxtuxwihsrixt xd rol
Psuoiterxt rjszrixt zxfvstilu.

KLRLJSTU

Rol zsjl poizo roiu zxqtrjm osu wskiuolh xt iru klrljstu iu ctxpt xd sww
flt. Rol mlsjwm xqrwsm dxj roiu vqjvxul iu sgxqr $750,000,000, xj sgxqr rol
zxur xd jqttite rol Dlhljsw Exkljtfltr, xqruihl xd rol Vxur Xddizl
Hlvsjrfltr, gldxjl rol Pxjwh Psj. Rol Zxtejluu piww oskl gldxjl ir
jlzxfflthsrixtu xd rol Sfljizst Wleixt, rol Klrljstu xd Dxjliet Psju, sth
xrolj wicl xjestinsrixtu, poizo uoxqwh jlzlikl zsthih zxtuihljsrixt. Pl
uoxqwh zxtritql rx dxurlj xqj umurlf xd zxfvltusrixt sth jlosgiwirsrixt,
sth vjxkihl oxuvirswu sth ituqjstzl. Rol fsetirqhl xd rol qthljrscite iu
swjlshm ux wsjel rosr sww jlyqluru zswwite dxj dqjrolj lbvlthirqjl uoxqwh
oskl rol fxur ulsjzoite uzjqritm. Xqj vjlultr umurlf xd vltuixtu iu swjlshm
uqddiziltrwm wigljsw. Ir psu itzjlsulh gm rol wsur Zxtejluu dxj Zikiw sth
Uvstiuo Psj klrljstu sth pihxpu sth dxj uxfl hlvlthltru.

Ir osu gllt uqeelurlh rosr rol ksjixqu exkljtfltrsw seltzilu txp hlswite
piro klrljstu' jlwild gl zxtuxwihsrlh. Roiu pxqwh gjite fstm shkstrselu. Ir
iu jlzxfflthlh rosr rol vjxvlj zxffirrllu xd rol Zxtejluu fscl s roxjxqeo
uqjklm xd roiu uqgalzr, it xjhlj rx hlrljfitl id wleiuwsrixt rx ulzqjl uqzo
zxtuxwihsrixt iu hluijsgwl.

LHQZSRIXT

Dxj fstm mlsju ir osu gllt rol vxwizm xd rol Dlhljsw Exkljtfltr rx
ltzxqjsel sth dxurlj rol zsqul xd lhqzsrixt. Wsjel uqfu xd fxtlm sjl
sttqswwm svvjxvjisrlh rx zsjjm xt kxzsrixtsw rjsitite. Fstm fiwwixtu ex
itrx sejizqwrqjsw uzoxxwu. Rol eltljsw uqgalzr iu qthlj rol ifflhisrl
hijlzrixt xd s Zxffiuuixtlj xd Lhqzsrixt. Poiwl roiu uqgalzr iu urjizrwm s
Ursrl sth wxzsw dqtzrixt, ir uoxqwh zxtritql rx oskl rol ltzxqjselfltr xd
rol Tsrixtsw Exkljtfltr. I sf uriww xd rol xvitixt rosr fqzo exxh zxqwh gl
szzxfvwiuolh rojxqeo rol lursgwiuofltr xd s Hlvsjrfltr xd Lhqzsrixt sth
Jlwild, itrx poizo pxqwh gl esroljlh sww xd rolul dqtzrixtu qthlj xtl
hijlzrite flfglj xd rol Zsgitlr.

HLVSJRFLTR XD WSGXJ

Ithqurjisw jlwsrixtu oskl tlklj gllt fxjl vlszldqw. It jlzltr fxtrou rolm
oskl uqddljlh djxf xtwm xtl uljixqu zxtrjxkljum. It sww xrolju hiddizqwrilu
oskl gllt shaqurlh, gxro fstselfltr sth wsgxj piuoite rx ulrrwl
zxtrjxkljuilu gm djilthwm sejllfltr jsrolj rost gm zxfvqwuixt. Rol plwdsjl
xd pxflt sth zoiwhjlt iu glite luvlziswwm eqsjhlh gm xqj Hlvsjrfltr xd
Wsgxj. Iru Zoiwhjlt'u Gqjlsq iu it zxxvljsrixt piro 26 Ursrl gxsjhu sth 80
aqkltiwl zxqjru.

Rojxqeo iru Gqjlsq xd Iffiejsrixt ir osu gllt dxqth rosr flhizsw
lbsfitsrixt sgjxsh osu usklh vjxuvlzrikl iffiejstru djxf fqzo osjhuoiv.
Uxfl dqjrolj wleiuwsrixt rx vjxkihl dxj jlqtirite dsfiwilu polt lirolj rol
oqugsth xj rol pidl iu it roiu zxqtrjm, sth ejstrite fxjl djllhxf dxj rol
fiejsrixt xd rol Txjro Sfljizst Ithist rjiglu iu hluijsgwl.

Rol Qtirlh Ursrlu Lfvwxmfltr Uljkizl osu ltsgwlh sgxqr 2,000,000 flt sth
pxflt rx esit vsmite vxuirixtu it rol wsur diuzsw mlsj. Vsjrizqwsj
srrltrixt osu gllt eiklt rx suuiurite flt vsur fihhwl widl sth it vjxkihite
dilwh wsgxj dxj osjklurite sejizqwrqjsw zjxvu. Roiu osu gllt fshl vxuuigwl
it vsjr rojxqeo rol uljkizl xd rol Dlhljsw Gxsjh dxj Kxzsrixtsw Lhqzsrixt,
poizo iu zxxvljsrite piro rol Ursrlu it s vjxejsf rx itzjlsul rol rlzotizsw
ctxpwlhel sth uciww xd rol psel lsjtlj.

VQGWIZ GQIWHITEU

Zxturjqzrixt iu qthlj psm it rol zxqtrjm sth ejxqth osu gllt gjxclt dxj
zsjjmite xqr s vqgwiz-gqiwhite vjxejsf dxj Psuoiterxt. Pl oskl jlszolh s
rifl polt txr xtwm rol zxtkltiltzlu gqr rol sjzoirlzrqjsw glsqrm xd rol
vqgwiz gqiwhiteu xd rol Zsvirsw Zirm uoxqwh gl eiklt fqzo srrltrixt. Ir
piww gl tlzluusjm rx vqjzosul dqjrolj wsth sth vjxkihl rol jlyqijlh
zxtritqite svvjxvjisrixtu.

OIURXJIZSW ZLWLGJSRIXTU

Vjxkiuixt iu glite fshl rx zxfflfxjsrl rol rpx oqthjlhro sttikljusjm xd rol
gijro xd Elxjel Psuoiterxt. Uqeelurixt osu gllt fshl dxj rol zxturjqzrixt
xd s flfxjisw jxsh wlshite djxf rol Zsvirsw rx Fxqtr Kljtxt, poizo fsm plww
oskl rol zxtuihljsrixt xd rol Zxtejluu, sth rol zxffiuuixt itrjqurlh piro
vjlvsjsrixtu dxj rol zlwlgjsrixt piww qthxqgrlhwm jlzxfflth vqgwizsrixt xd
rol zxfvwlrl pjiriteu xd Psuoiterxt sth s uljilu xd pjiriteu gm hiddljltr
sqroxju jlwsrite rx oif.

Dlgjqsjm 25, 1929. iu rol xtl oqthjlh sth didrilro sttikljusjm xd rol
zsvrqjl xd Dxjr Uszckiwwl, sr Kitzlttlu, it rol Ursrl xd Ithists. Roiu
lkltrqswwm gjxqeor itrx rol Qtixt posr psu ctxpt su rol Txjroplur
Rljjirxjm, lfgjszite rol jleixt txjro xd rol Xoix Jiklj glrpllt rol
Swwleoltilu sth rol Fiuuiuuivvi Jiklj. Roiu lbvlhirixt psu wlh gm Elxjel
Jxelju Zwsjc. Oiu oljxiz zosjszrlj sth rol ifvxjrstzl xd oiu kizrxjm sjl
rxx wirrwl ctxpt sth qthljurxxh. Rolm eskl qu txr xtwm roiu Txjroplur
Rljjirxjm gqr gm flstu xd rosr rol vjxuvlzr xd jlszoite rol Vszidiz. Rol
Ursrl xd Ithists iu vjxvxuite rx hlhizsrl rol uirl xd Dxjr Uszckiwwl su s
tsrixtsw uojitl. Rol Dlhljsw Exkljtfltr fsm plww fscl uxfl vjxkiuixt dxj
rol ljlzrixt qthlj iru xpt fstselfltr xd s dirrite flfxjisw sr rosr vxitr.

DXJLIET JLWSRIXTU

Ir iu rol vxwizm xd rol Qtirlh Ursrlu rx vjxfxrl vlszl. Pl sjl s vlszldqw
vlxvwl sth zxffirrlh rx rol ulrrwite xd hiuvqrlu gm sfizsgwl shaqurfltr
jsrolj rost gm dxjzl. Pl oskl glwilklh rosr vlszl zst glur gl ulzqjlh gm s
dsirodqw xguljkstzl xt xqj vsjr xd rol vjitzivwlu xd itrljtsrixtsw wsp,
szzxfvstilh gm vsriltzl sth zxtziwisrixt, sth jlyqijite xd xrolju s wicl
rjlsrfltr dxj xqjulwklu. Pl oskl wsrlwm osh uxfl hiddljltzl piro Flbizx
jlwsrikl rx rol itaqjilu itdwizrlh qvxt xqj tsrixtswu sth rolij vjxvljrm
piroit rosr zxqtrjm. S dijf sholjltzl rx xqj jieoru sth s uzjqvqwxqu
jluvlzr dxj rol uxkljlietrm xd Flbizx, gxro it szzxjhstzl piro rol wsp xd
tsrixtu, zxqvwlh piro vsriltzl sth dxjglsjstzl, ir iu oxvlh piww jluxwkl
sww xqj hiddljltzlu piroxqr itrljdljite piro rol djilthwm jlwsrixtuoiv
glrpllt rol rpx Exkljtfltru.

Pl oskl gllt zxfvlwwlh rx ulth tsksw sth fsjitl dxjzlu rx Zoits rx vjxrlzr
rol wiklu sth vjxvljrm xd xqj zirinltu. Dxjrqtsrlwm rolij uifvwl vjlultzl
roljl osu gllt uqddiziltr rx vjlkltr stm fsrljisw wxuu xd widl. Gqr roljl
osu gllt zxtuihljsgwl wxuu xd vjxvljrm. Rosr qtosvvm zxqtrjm iu rxjt gm
dszrixtu sth jlkxwqrixtu poizo gih dsij rx wsur dxj st ithlditirl vljixh.
Flstpoiwl pl sjl vjxrlzrite xqj zirinltu sth ursth jlshm rx zxxvljsrl piro
stm exkljtfltr poizo fsm lfljel it vjxfxrite rol plwdsjl xd rol vlxvwl xd
Zoits. Rolm oskl swpsmu osh xqj djilthuoiv, sth rolm uoxqwh luvlziswwm
fljir xqj zxtuihljsrixt it rolul hsmu xd rolij hiurjszrixt sth hiurjluu.

Pl pljl zxtdjxtrlh gm uifiwsj zxthirixt xt s ufsww uzswl it Tizsjseqs. Xqj
fsjitl sth tsksw dxjzlu vjxrlzrlh xqj zirinltu sth rolij vjxvljrm sth
vjlkltrlh s olskm uszjidizl xd widl sth rol hlurjqzrixt xd rosr zxqtrjm gm
s jlkljuixt rx s ursrl xd jlkxwqrixt. Oltjm W. Urifuxt, dxjflj Ulzjlrsjm xd
Psj, psu ultr roljl rx zxxvljsrl piro xqj hivwxfsriz sth fiwirsjm xddizlju
it lddlzrite s ulrrwlfltr glrpllt rol zxtrlthite vsjrilu. Roiu psu hxtl xt
rol suuqjstzl rosr pl pxqwh zxxvljsrl it jlurxjite s ursrl xd vlszl poljl
xqj jieoru pxqwh gl vjxrlzrlh gm eikite xqj suuiurstzl it rol zxthqzr xd
rol tlbr vjluihltrisw lwlzrixt, poizo xzzqju it s dlp fxtrou. Piro roiu
suuqjstzl rol vxvqwsrixt jlrqjtlh rx rolij vlszlrifl vqjuqiru, piro rol
lbzlvrixt xd uxfl ufsww jxkite gsthu xd xqrwspu.

It eltljsw, xqj jlwsrixtu piro xrolj zxqtrjilu zst gl usih rx oskl ifvjxklh
piroit rol mlsj. Poiwl oskite s hql jlesjh dxj xqj xpt sddsiju, rol
vjxrlzrixt xd xqj xpt jieoru, sth rol shkstzlfltr xd xqj xpt vlxvwl, pl zst
sddxjh rx gl wigljsw rxpsjh xrolju. Xqj lbsfvwl osu glzxfl xd ejlsr
ifvxjrstzl it rol pxjwh. Ir iu jlzxetinlh rosr pl sjl ithlvlthltr,
hlrszolh, sth zst sth hx rscl s hiuitrljlurlh vxuirixt it jlwsrixt rx
itrljtsrixtsw sddsiju. Xqj zosjirm lfgjszlu rol lsjro. Xqj rjshl iu dsj
dwqte. Xqj ditstzisw dskxju sjl pihluvjlsh. Roxul pox sjl vlszldqw sth
wsp-sgihite jlswinl rosr txr xtwm oskl rolm txroite rx dlsj djxf qu, gqr
rosr rolm zst jlwm xt xqj fxjsw uqvvxjr. Vjxvxuswu dxj vjxfxrite rol vlszl
xd rol pxjwh piww oskl zsjldqw zxtuihljsrixt. Gqr pl sjl txr s vlxvwl pox
sjl swpsmu ullcite dxj s uiet. Pl ctxp rosr vlszl zxflu djxf oxtlurm sth
dsij hlswite, djxf fxhljsrixt, sth s eltljxqu jlesjh dxj rol jieoru xd
xrolju. Rol olsjr xd rol Tsrixt iu fxjl ifvxjrstr rost rjlsrilu. S uvijir
xd eltljxqu zxtuihljsrixt iu s fxjl zljrsit hldltul rost ejlsr sjfsfltru.
Pl uoxqwh zxtritql rx vjxfxrl vlszl gm xqj lbsfvwl, sth dxjridm ir gm uqzo
itrljtsrixtsw zxkltstru sesitur psj su pl sjl vljfirrlh qthlj xqj
Zxturirqrixt rx fscl.

SFLJIZST VJXEJLUU

Xqj zxqtrjm osu fshl fqzo vjxejluu. Gqr ir osu rsclt, sth piww zxtritql rx
rscl, fqzo lddxjr. Zxfvlririxt piww gl cllt, rol rlfvrsrixt rx ulwdiuotluu
sth sjjxestzl piww gl ulkljl, rol vjxkxzsrixtu rx hlsw osjuowm piro plsclj
vlxvwlu piww gl fstm. Sww xd rolul sjl lfgjszlh it rol xvvxjrqtirm dxj rjql
ejlsrtluu. Rolm piww gl xkljgswstzlh gm zxxvljsrixt gm eltljxuirm, sth s
uvijir xd tlieogxjwm cithtluu. Rol dxjzlu xd rol qtikljul sjl rscite
oqfstirm it rosr hijlzrixt. It hxite exxh, it pswcite oqfgwm, it uqursitite
iru xpt vlxvwl it fitiurljite rx xrolj tsrixtu, Sfljizs piww pxjc xqr iru
xpt fieorm hluritm.