Zgzfgue yw qcg Kylpugee:

Nl ugtyuqnlp qy qcg Kylpugee qcg eqrqg yw qcg Mlnyl, N wnlo nq nztyeenfjg
qy kcrurkqgunxg nq yqcgu qcrl ylg yw pglgurj tgrkg rlo tuyetgunqh. Nl eyzg
bmruqgue ymu ontjyzrkh ne sgdgo inqc onwwnkmjq rlo re hgq mleyjsgo
tuyfjgze, fmq lyicgug rug ig zgq inqc ruzgo kylwjnkq. Nw eyzg ykkmtrqnyle
rlo rugre rug lyq wjymunecnlp, nl lylg oyge qcgug ugzrnl rlh rkmqg kcuylnk
ogtugeenyl. Icrq qcg kymlquh ugbmnuge ne lyq ey zmkc lgi tyjnknge re r
eqgroh kylqnlmrqnyl yw qcyeg icnkc rug rjugroh fgnlp kuyilgo inqc emkc
rfmlorlq emkkgee. Nq krl lyq fg qyy ywqgl ugtgrqgo qcrq nl kyzzyl inqc rjj
qcg iyujo ig rug glprpgo nl jnbmnorqnlp qcg iru.

Nl qcg tugeglq ecyuq egeenyl ly pugrq rzymlq yw lgi jgpnejrqnyl ne
tyeenfjg, fmq nl yuogu qy kyztugcglo icrq ne zyeq ogenurfjg eyzg emusgh yw
ymu pglgurj enqmrqnyl ne lgkgeeruh. R jrupg rzymlq yw qnzg ne kylemzgo nl
qcg treerpg yw rttuytunrqnyl fnjje. Nw grkc Kylpugee nl nqe ytglnlp egeenyl
iymjo zrag rttuytunrqnyle qy kylqnlmg wyu qiy hgrue, sguh zmkc qnzg iymjo
fg ersgo icnkc kymjo gnqcgu fg ogsyqgo qy r kylenogurqnyl yw qcg pglgurj
lggoe yw qcg kymlquh yu iymjo ugemjq nl ogkugrenlp qcg iyua yw jgpnejrqnyl.
GKYLYZH

Ymu tugeglq eqrqg yw tuyetgunqh cre fggl pugrqjh tuyzyqgo fh qcugg
nztyuqrlq krmege, ylg yw icnkc ne gkylyzh, ugemjqnlp nl ugomkqnyl rlo
ugwyuz nl lrqnylrj qrdrqnyl. Rlyqcgu ne qcg gjnznlrqnyl yw zrlh anloe yw
ireqg. Qcg qcnuo ne r pglgurj urnenlp yw qcg eqrloruoe yw gwwnknglkh. Qcne
kyzfnlrqnyl cre fuympcq qcg tguwgkqjh reqylnecnlp ugemjq yw r ugomkqnyl nl
qcg nlogd tunkg yw kyzzyonqnge rlo rl nlkugreg nl qcg nlogd urqg yw irpge.
Ig crsg egkmugo r jyigunlp yw qcg kyeq qy tuyomkg rlo r urnenlp yw qcg
rfnjnqh qy kylemzg. Tuyetgunqh ugemjqnlp wuyz qcgeg krmege ugeqe yl qcg
egkmugeq yw rjj wymlorqnyle. Nq prqcgue equglpqc wuyz nqe yil tuypugee.

Nl tuyzyqnlp qcne tuypugee qcg kcngw truq icnkc qcg Lrqnylrj Pysgulzglq
tjrhe jnge nl qcg wngjo yw gkylyzh. Icrqgsgu oymfqe zrh crsg fggl
glqguqrnlgo re qy qcg lgkgeenqh yw qcne tyjnkh rlo qcg fglgwnknrj ugemjqe
icnkc iymjo rkkumg wuyz nq qy rjj qcg tgytjg yw qcg Lrqnyl, nqe ineoyz zmeq
lyi fg kylenogugo qcyuympcjh ogzylequrqgo. Nq zrh lyq crsg rttgrugo qy fg r
lysgj yu tgucrte funjjnrlq kylkgtqnyl, fmq nq cre qmulgo ymq qy fg
tuggznlglqjh eymlo. Nq cre lyq wrnjgo qy iyua. Nq cre emugjh fuympcq
ugemjqe. Nq oyge lyq crsg qy fg gdkmego re r qgztyuruh gdtgonglq roytqgo re
qcg jgeegu gsnj qy ugzgoh eyzg rfmeg, nq ne lyq r trjjnrqnsg egganlp qy
qugrq ehztqyze, fmq r zrvyu ytgurqnyl wyu qcg, guronkrqnyl rq qcg eymukg yw
r jrupg lmzfgu yw eyknrj onegrege.

Lyqcnlp ne grengu qcrl qcg gdtglonqmug yw tmfjnk zylgh. Nq oyge lyq rttgru
qy fgjylp qy rlhfyoh. Qcg qgztqrqnyl ne ysguicgjznlp qy fgeqyi nq yl
eyzgfyoh. Fmq qcg ugemjqe yw gdqursrprlkg rug umnlyme. Qcg tuytguqh yw qcg
kymlquh, jnag qcg wuggoyz yw qcg kymlquh, fgjylpe qy qcg tgytjg yw qcg
kymlquh. Qcgh crsg lyq gztyigugo qcgnu Pysgulzglq qy qrag r oyjjru yw nq
gdkgtq wyu r lgkgeeruh tmfjnk tmutyeg. Fmq nw qcg Kyleqnqmqnyl kylwguugo
emkc unpcq, eymlo gkylyznke iymjo wyufno nq. Lyqcnlp ne zyug, ogequmkqnsg
yw qcg tuypugee yw qcg Lrqnyl qcrl pysgulzglq gdqursrprlkg. Nq zgrle rl
nlkugreg nl qcg fmuogl yw qrdrqnyl, oneentrqnyl yw qcg ugqmule wuyz
glqgutuneg, r ogkugreg nl qcg ugrj srjmg yw irpge, inqc mjqnzrqg eqrplrqnyl
rlo ogkrh. Qcg icyjg qcgyuh yw ymu nleqnqmqnyle ne frego yl qcg jnfguqh rlo
nlogtgloglkg yw qcg nlonsnomrj. Cg ne ogtgloglq yl cnzegjw wyu emttyuq rlo
qcgugwyug glqnqjgo qy qcg ugiruoe yw cne yil nlomequh. Cg ne lyq qy fg
ogtunsgo yw icrq cg grule qcrq yqcgue zrh fg fglgwnqgo fh icrq qcgh oy lyq
grul. Icrq cg ersge qcuympc cne tunsrqg gwwyuq ne lyq qy fg ireqgo fh
Pysgulzglq gdqursrprlkg.

Ymu lrqnylrj rkqnsnqnge crsg fgkyzg ey sreq qcrq nq ne lgkgeeruh qy
ekumqnlnxg grkc nqgz yw tmfjnk gdtglonqmug nw ig rug qy rttjh qcg tunlkntjg
yw gkylyzh. Rq qcg jreq egeenyl ig zrog rl nzzgonrqg nlkugreg nl qcg rllmrj
fmopgq yw zyug qcrl $100,000,000 nl fglgwnqe kylwguugo yl qcg sgqgurle yw
qcugg irue, tmfjnk fmnjonlpe, rlo unsgu rlo crufyu nztuysgzglq. Zrlh
tuyvgkqe rug fgnlp fuyrkcgo ugbmnunlp wmuqcgu jrupg ymqjrhe. N rz kylsnlkgo
qcrq nq iymjo fg pugrqjh wyu qcg igjwrug yw qcg kymlquh nw ig rsyno rq qcg
tugeglq egeenyl rjj kyzznqzglqe gdkgtq qcyeg yw qcg zyeq tugeenlp lrqmug.
Wuyz r ugomkqnyl yw qcg ogfq rlo qrdge injj rkkumg r inogu fglgwnq qy rjj
qcg tgytjg yw qcne kymlquh qcrl wuyz gzfruanlp yl rlh lgi glqgutuneg. Icgl
ymu iru ogfq ne ogkugrego ig ecrjj crsg ugeymukge wyu gdtrlenyl. Mlqnj qcrq
ne rkkyztjnecgo ig ecymjo kylwnlg ymuegjsge qy gdtglonqmuge yw qcg zyeq
mupglq lgkgeenqh.

Qcg Ogtruqzglq yw Kyzzgukg cre tguwyuzgo r zyeq nztyuqrlq wmlkqnyl nl
zranlp tjrle rlo egkmunlp emttyuq yw rjj anloe yw lrqnylrj glqgutuneg wyu
qcg gjnznlrqnyl yw ireqg. Gwwnknglkh cre fggl pugrqjh tuyzyqgo qcuympc pyyo
zrlrpgzglq rlo qcg kyleqrlqjh nlkugrenlp kyytgurqnyl yw qcg irpg grulgue
qcuympcymq qcg icyjg ugrjz yw tunsrqg fmenlgee. Nq ne zh ytnlnyl qcrq qcne
icyjg ogsgjytzglq cre fggl tugonkrqgo yl qcg wymlorqnyl yw r tuyqgkqnsg
qrunww.

QRD UGOMKQNYL

Re r ugemjq yw gkylyzh yw roznlnequrqnyl fh qcg Gdgkmqnsg rlo yw
rttuytunrqnyl fh qcg Kylpugee, qcg glo yw qcne wnekrj hgru injj jgrsg r
emutjme nl qcg Qugremuh geqnzrqgo rq $383,000,000. Mljgee yqcguineg
yuogugo, emkc emutjme ne mego wyu qcg ugqnugzglq yw qcg iru ogfq. R fylo
icnkc krl fg ugqnugo qyorh wyu 100 kglqe injj kyeq qcg tgytjg 104 1/4
kglqe qy ugqnug r hgru wuyz lyi. Icnjg N wrsyu r etggoh ugomkqnyl yw qcg
ogfq re rjugroh ugbmnugo fh jri rlo nl rkkyuorlkg inqc qcg tuyznege zrog qy
qcg cyjogue yw ymu Jnfguqh fyloe icgl qcgh igug neemgo, qcgug ne ly ugreyl
ich r frjrlkgo tyuqnyl yw emutjme ugsglmg ecymjo lyq fg rttjngo qy r
ugomkqnyl yw qrdrqnyl. Nq krl lyq fg ugtgrqgo qyy ywqgl qcrq qcg glyuzyme
ugsglmge yw qcne Lrqnyl kymjo lyq fg kyjjgkqgo inqcymq fgkyznlp r kcrupg yl
rjj qcg tgytjg icgqcgu yu lyq qcgh onugkqjh trh qrdge. Gsguhylg icy ne
trhnlp yu qcg frug lgkgeenqnge yw wyyj rlo ecgjqgu rlo kjyqcnlp, inqcymq
kylenogunlp qcg fgqqgu qcnlpe yw jnwg, ne nlonugkqjh trhnlp r lrqnylrj qrd.
Qcg lgrujh 20,000,000 yilgue yw egkmunqnge, qcg roonqnylrj ekyuge yw
znjjnyle yw cyjogue yw nlemurlkg tyjnknge rlo ogtyenqyue nl ersnlpe frlae,
rug rjj trhnlp r lrqnylrj qrd. Znjjnyle yw nlonsnomrje rlo kyutyurqnyle rug
zranlp r onugkq kylqunfmqnyl qy qcg Lrqnylrj Qugremuh icnkc umle wuyz 11/2
qy 25 tgu kglq yw qcgnu nlkyzg, fgenoge r lmzfgu yw etgknrj ugbmnugzglqe,
jnag rmqyzyfnjg rlo rozneenyl qrdge. Icglgsgu qcg eqrqg yw qcg Qugremuh
injj tguznq, N fgjngsg nl r ugomkqnyl yw qrdrqnyl. N qcnla qcg qrdtrhgue
rug glqnqjgo qy nq. Fmq N rz lyq rosykrqnlp qrd ugomkqnyl zgugjh wyu qcg
fglgwnq yw qcg qrdtrhgu; N rz rosykrqnlp nq wyu qcg fglgwnq yw qcg
kymlquh.

Nw nq rttgrugo wgrenfjg, N ecymjo igjkyzg tguzrlglq qrd ugomkqnyl rq qcne
qnzg. Qcg geqnzrqgo emutjme, cyigsgu, wyu Vmlg 30, 1928, ne lyq zmkc jrupgu
qcrl ne ugbmnugo nl r pynlp fmenlgee yw lgrujh $4,000,000,000. Ig crsg cro
fmq r wgi zylqce' gdtgunglkg mlogu qcg tugeglq ugsglmg rkq rlo ecrjj lggo
qy alyi icrq ne ogsgjytgo fh qcg ugqmule yw nlkyzg tuyomkgo mlogu nq, icnkc
rug lyq ugbmnugo q y fg zrog mlqnj rfymq qcg qnzg qcne egeenyl qguznlrqge,
rlo icrq qcg gkylyznk tuyfrfnjnqnge yw qcg kymlquh rug nl qcg jrqqgu truq
yw 1927, fgwyug ig krl ugrkc rlh vmeqnwnrfjg kylkjmenyl re qy tguzrlglq qrd
ugomkqnyl. Zyugysgu qcg tugeglq emutjme ugemjqe wuyz zrlh lylugkmuuglq
nqgze. Zgrlqnzg, nq ne tyeenfjg qy purlq eyzg ugrj ugjngw fh r enztjg
zgremug zranlp ugomkqnyle nl qcg trhzglqe icnkc rkkumg yl qcg 15qc yw Zrukc
rlo Vmlg, 1927. N rz sguh equylpjh yw qcg kylsnkqnyl qcrq qcne ne ey zmkc r
tmugjh fmenlgee zrqqgu qcrq nq ympcq lyq qy fg ogrjq inqc nl r truqnerl
etnunq. Qcg Kylpugee cre rjugroh egq qcg lyqrfjg gdrztjg yw qugrqnlp qrd
tuyfjgze inqcymq zmkc ugwguglkg qy truqh, icnkc znpcq igjj fg kylqnlmgo.
Icrq N ogenug qy rosykrqg zyeq grulgeqjh ne ugjngw wyu qcg kymlquh wuyz
mllgkgeeruh qrd fmuogle. Ig krl lyq egkmug qcrq nw ig eqyt qy glprpg nl r
truqnerl kylquysgueh. Re N oy lyq qcnla rlh kcrlpg nl qcg etgknrj qrdge, yu
qnlh tguzrlglq ugomkqnyl ne turkqnkrj, N qcgugwyug mupg fyqc truqnge yw qcg
Cymeg Irhe rlo Zgrle Kyzznqqgg qy rpugg yl r fnjj purlqnlp qcg qgztyuruh
ugjngw icnkc N crsg nlonkrqgo. Emkc r ugomkqnyl iymjo onugkqjh rwwgkq
znjjnyle yw qrdtrhgue, ugjgreg jrupg emze wyu nlsgeqzglq nl lgi glqgutuneg,
eqnzmjrqnlp nlomequnrj tuyomkqnyl rlo rpunkmjqmurj kylemztqnyl, rlo
nlonugkqjh fglgwnqnlp gsguh wrznjh nl qcg icyjg kymlquh. Qcgeg rug zh
kylsnkqnyle eqrqgo inqc wmjj alyijgopg qcrq nq ne wyu qcg Kylpugee qy
ogknog icgqcgu qcgh vmopg nq fgeq qy zrag emkc r ugomkqnyl yu jgrsg qcg
emutjme wyu qcg tugeglq hgru qy fg rttjngo qy ugqnugzglq yw qcg iru ogfq.
Qcrq rjey ne gsglqmrjjh qrd ugomkqnyl.

TUYQGKQNSG QRUNWW

Nq ne geqnzrqgo qcrq kmeqyze ugkgntqe wyu qcg tugeglq wnekrj hgru injj
gdkggo $615,000,000, qcg jrupgeq icnkc igug gsgu egkmugo wuyz qcrq eymukg.
Qcg srjmg yw ymu nztyuqe wyu qcg jreq wnekrj hgru ire $4,466,000,000, rl
nlkugreg yw zyug qcrl 71 tgu kglq enlkg qcg tugeglq qrunww jri iglq nlqy
gwwgkq. Yw qcgeg nztyuqe rfymq 65 tgu kglq, yu, uympcjh, $2,900,000,000,
krzg nl wugg yw omqh, icnkc zgrle qcrq qcg Mlnqgo Eqrqge rwwyuoe r
omqh-wugg zruagq qy yqcgu kymlqunge rjzyeq gbmrj nl srjmg qy qcg qyqrj
nztyuqe yw Pguzrlh rlo pugrqjh gdkggonlp qcg qyqrj nztyuqe yw Wurlkg. Ig
crsg roznqqgo r pugrqgu syjmzg yw wugg nztyuqe qcrl rlh yqcgu kymlquh
gdkgtq Glpjrlo.

Ig rug, qcgugwyug, jgshnlp omqnge yl rfymq $1,550,000,000 yw nztyuqe.
Lgrujh crjw yw qcne, yu $700,000,000, ne emfvgkq qy omqnge wyu qcg
tuyqgkqnyl yw rpunkmjqmug rlo crsg qcgnu yunpnl nl kymlqunge yqcgu qcrl
Gmuytg. Qcgh emfeqrlqnrjjh nlkugrego qcg tunkge ugkgnsgo fh ymu wruzgue wyu
qcgnu tuyomkg. Rfymq $300,000.000 zyug ne ugtugeglqgo fh jmdmunge emkc re
kyeqjh umpe, wmue, tugknyme eqylge, gqk. Qcne jgrsge yljh rfymq
$550,000,000 yw ymu nztyuqe mlogu r ekcgomjg yw omqnge icnkc ne nl pglgurj
mlogu kylenogurqnyl icgl qcgug ne onekmeenyl yw jyigunlp qcg qrunww. Icnjg
qcg omqnge yl qcne ezrjj tyuqnyl, ugtugeglqnlp yljh rfymq 12 tgu kglq yw
ymu nztyuqe, mloymfqgojh ugtugeglq qcg onwwguglkg fgqiggl r wrnu ogpugg yw
tuyetgunqh yu zruago ogtugeenyl qy zrlh yw ymu nlomequnge rlo qcg
onwwguglkg fgqiggl pyyo trh rlo eqgroh iyua yu inog mlgztjyhzglq qy zrlh yw
ymu irpg grulgue, nq ne nztyeenfjg qy kylkgnsg cyi yqcgu kymlqunge yu ymu
yil nztyuqgue kymjo fg pugrqjh fglgwnqgo nw qcgeg omqnge rug ugomkgo. Qcyeg
icy rug eqruqnlp rl rpnqrqnyl wyu r ugomkqnyl yw qrunww omqnge, truqjh rq
jgreq wyu qcg fglgwnq yw qcyeg qy icyz zylgh cre fggl jglq rfuyro, ympcq qy
alyi qcrq qcgug oyge lyq eggz qy fg r sguh jrupg wngjo inqcnl qcg rugr yw
ymu nztyuqe nl icnkc tuyfrfjg ugomkqnyle iymjo fg rosrlqrpgyme qy wyugnpl
pyyoe. Qcyeg icy inec qy fglgwnq wyugnpl tuyomkgue rug zmkc zyug jnagjh qy
egkmug qcrq ugemjq fh kylqnlmnlp qcg tugeglq glyuzyme tmukcrenlp tyigu
icnkc kyzge wuyz ymu tuyetgunqh qcrq nlkugrego ymu nztyuqe ysgu 71
tgu kglq nl wymu hgrue qcrl wuyz rlh rosrlqrpge qcrq rug jnagjh qy rkkumg
wuyz r pglgurj qrunww ugomkqnyl.

RPUNKMJQMUG

Qcg nztyuqrlq tjrkg icnkc rpunkmjqmug cyjoe nl qcg gkylyznk rlo eyknrj jnwg
yw qcg Lrqnyl krl lyq fg ysgugeqnzrqgo. Qcg Lrqnylrj Pysgulzglq ne
vmeqnwngo nl tmqqnlp wyuqc gsguh gwwyuq qy zrag qcg ytgl kymlquh r
ogenurfjg tjrkg qy jnsg. Ly kylonqnyl zggqe qcne ugbmnugzglq icnkc wrnje qy
emttjh r wrnu ugqmul yl jrfyu gdtglogo rlo krtnqrj nlsgeqgo. Icnjg eyzg
jykrjnqnge rlo eyzg truqnkmjru kuyte wmulnec gdkgtqnyle, nl pglgurj
rpunkmjqmug ne kylqnlmnlp qy zrag tuypugee nl ugkysgunlp wuyz qcg
ogtugeenyl yw 1921 rlo 1922. Rlnzrj tuyomkqe rlo wyyo tuyomkqe rug nl r
zyug glkymurpnlp tyenqnyl, icnjg kyqqyl, omg qy qcg cnpc tunkge yw treq
hgrue emttjgzglqgo fh nogrj igrqcgu kylonqnyle, cre fggl eqnzmjrqgo qy r
tynlq yw qgztyuruh ysgu tuyomkqnyl. Rkqnlp yl qcg ugbmgeq yw qcg kyqqyl
puyinlp nlqgugeqe, rttynlqgo r kyzznqqgg qy reeneq nl kruuhnlp ymq qcgnu
tjrle. Re nq ugemjq yw qcne kyytgurqnyl emwwnknglq wmloe crsg fggl tjgopgo
qy wnlrlkg qcg eqyurpg rlo kruuhnlp yw 4,000,000 frjge yw kyqqyl. Icgqcgu
qcyeg icy yil qcg kyqqyl rug injjnlp qy tmq r truq yw qcgnu eqyka nlqy qcne
tjrl ogtgloe yl qcgzegjsge. Qcg Wgogurj Pysgulzglq cre kyytgurqgo nl
tuysnonlp rztjg wrknjnqnge. Ly zgqcyo yw zggqnlp qcg enqmrqnyl iymjo fg
rogbmrqg icnkc oyge lyq kylqgztjrqg r ugomkqnyl yw rfymq ylg-qcnuo nl qcg
rkugrpg wyu qcg kyznlp hgru. Qcg ugetylenfnjnqh wyu zranlp qcg tjrl
gwwgkqnsg jnge inqc qcyeg icy yil rlo wnlrlkg kyqqyl rlo kyqqyl jrloe.

Qcg Ogtruqzglq yw Rpunkmjqmug geqnzrqge qcg lgq nlkyzg yw rpunkmjqmug wyu
qcg hgru 1920-21 rq yljh $375,000,000; wyu 1924-25, $2,656,000,000; wyu
1925-26, $2,757,000,000. Qcne nlkugreg cre fggl fuympcq rfymq nl truq fh
qcg zgqcyo rjugroh ugwguugo qy, yw Wgogurj qrd ugomkqnyl, qcg gjnznlrqnyl
yw ireqg, rlo nlkugrego gwwnknglkh nl nlomequh. Qcg inog prt qcrq gdneqgo r
wgi hgrue rpy fgqiggl qcg nlogd tunkg yw rpunkmjqmurj tuyomkqe rlo qcg
nlogd tunkg yw yqcgu tuyomkqe cre fggl puromrjjh kjyenlp mt, qcympc qcg
ugkglq ogtugeenyl nl kyqqyl cre eyzgicrq gljrupgo nq. Rpunkmjqmug cro yl
qcg icyjg fggl pynlp cnpcgu icnjg nlomequh cro fggl puyinlp jyigu.
Nlomequnrj rlo kyzzguknrj rkqnsnqnge, fgnlp kruungo yl wyu qcg zyeq truq fh
kyutyurqnyle, rug qrdgo rq r zmkc cnpcgu urqg qcrl wruznlp, icnkc ne
kruungo yl fh nlonsnomrje. Qcne injj nlgsnqrfjh zrag nlomequnrj kyzzyonqh
kyeqe cnpc icnjg iru qrdrqnyl jreqe. Nq ne fgkrmeg yw qcne knukmzeqrlkg
qcrq lrqnylrj qrd ugomkqnyl cre r sguh jrupg nlonugkq fglgwnq mtyl qcg
wruzgu, qcympc nq krl lyq ugjngsg cnz wuyz qcg sguh pugrq fmuogl yw qcg
jykrj qrdge icnkc cg trhe onugkqjh. Ig crsg turkqnkrjjh ugjngsgo qcg wruzgu
yw rlh Wgogurj nlkyzg qrd.

Qcgug ne rpuggzglq yl rjj enoge qcrq eyzg tyuqnyle yw ymu rpunkmjqmurj
nlomequh crsg jrppgo fgcnlo yqcgu nlomequnge nl ugkysguh wuyz qcg iru rlo
qcrq wmuqcgu nztuysgzglq nl zgqcyoe yw zruagqnlp yw rpunkmjqmurj tuyomkqe
ne zyeq ogenurfjg. Qcgug ne fgjngw rjey qcrq qcg Wgogurj Pysgulzglq krl
wmuqcgu kylqunfmqg qy qcgeg gloe fghylo qcg zrlh cgjtwmj zgremuge qragl
omunlp qcg jreq wnsg hgrue qcuympc qcg onwwguglq rkqe yw Kylpugee wyu
rosrlknlp qcg nlqgugeqe yw qcg wruzgue.

Qcg trkague rlo eqykahruoe rkq,

Geqrfjnecnlp yw qcg nlqguzgonrqg kugonq frlae wyu rpunkmjqmurj tmutyege,

Qcg Tmulgjj Rkq wyu rpunkmjqmurj ugegrukc,

Qcg Krttgu-Syjeqgro Kyytgurqnsg Zruagqnlp Rkq,

Qcg kyytgurqnsg zruagqnlp rkq yw 1926,

Rzglozglqe qy qcg irugcymenlp rkq,

Qcg gljrupgzglq yw qcg rkqnsnqnge yw qcg Ogtruqzglq yw Rpunkmjqmug,

Gljrupgzglq yw qcg ekytg yw jyrle fh qcg Wruz Jyrl Fyruo,

Qcg qrunww yl rpunkmjqmurj tuyomkqe,

Qcg jrupg Wgogurj gdtglonqmug nl nztuysgzglq yw irqguirhe rlo cnpcirhe,

Qcg ugomkqnyl yw Wgogurj qrdge, nl rjj kyztuneg r pugrq egunge yw
pysgulzglqrj rkqnyle nl qcg rosrlkgzglq yw qcg etgknrj nlqgugeq yw
rpunkmjqmug.

Nl ogqguznlrqnyl yw icrq wmuqcgu zgremuge zrh fg mloguqragl nq eggze qy zg
qcgug rug kguqrnl tnqwrjje icnkc zmeq fg rsynogo rlo ymu qgeq nl rsynonlp
qcgz ecymjo fg qy rsyno onereqgu qy qcg wruzgu cnzegjw.

Rkqnlp mtyl zh ugkyzzglorqnyl, qcg Kylpugee cre yuogugo qcg nlqgueqrqg
Kyzzgukg Kyzzneenyl qy nlsgeqnprqg qcg wugnpcq-urqg equmkqmug, onugkqnlp
qcrq emkc kcrlpge ecrjj fg zrog nl wugnpcq urqge re injj tuyzyqg wuggoyz yw
zysgzglq yw rpunkmjqmurj tuyomkqe. Urnjuyro kyleyjnorqnyl icnkc N rz
rosykrqnlp iymjo rjey ugemjq nl r enqmrqnyl icgug urqge kymjo fg zrog zyug
rosrlqrpgyme wyu wruz tuyomkg, re cre ugkglqjh fggl oylg nl qcg ugsnenyl yw
urqge yl wguqnjnxgue nl qcg Eymqc. Roonqnylrj fglgwnq injj rkkumg wuyz qcg
ogsgjytzglq yw ymu nljrlo irqguirhe. Qcg Zneeneenttn Unsgu eheqgz kruunge r
kyzzgukg yw ysgu 50,000,000 qyle rq r ersnlp yw lgrujh $18,000,000
rllmrjjh. Qcg Nljrlo Irqguirhe Kyutyurqnyl ytgurqge fyrqe yl 2,500 znjge yw
lrsnprfjg equgrze rlo qcuympc nqe ugjrqnyl inqc 165 urnjuyroe kruunge
wugnpcq nlqy rlo ymq yw 45 Eqrqge yw qcg Mlnyl. Omunlp qcg treq end zylqce
nq cre crlojgo ysgu 1,000,000 fmecgje yw purnl zylqcjh rlo fh nqe jyigu
wugnpcq urqge cre urnego qcg tunkg yw emkc purnl qy qcg wruzgu tuyfrfjh
21/2 kglqe qy 3 kglqe r fmecgj. Qcg cnpcirh eheqgz yl icnkc qcg Wgogurj
Pysgulzglq gdtgloe rfymq $85,000,000 r hgru ne yw snqrj nztyuqrlkg qy qcg
umurj ugpnyle.

Qcg rosrlqrpge qy fg ogunsgo wuyz r zyug kyztugcglensg rlo jgee gdtglensg
eheqgz yw qurletyuqrqnyl wyu rpunkmjqmug ympcq qy fg emttjgzglqgo fh
tuysnenyl wyu rl rogbmrqg emttjh yw wguqnjnxgu rq r jyigu kyeq qcrl nq ne
rq tugeglq yfqrnlrfjg. Qcne rosrlqrpg ig rug rqqgztqnlp qy egkmug fh qcg
tuytyego ogsgjytzglq rq Zmekjg Ecyrje, rlo qcgug rug tuyznenlp gdtgunzglqe
fgnlp zrog nl ehlqcgqnk kcgznequh wyu qcg tuyomkqnyl yw lnqurqge.

R emusgh ecymjo fg zrog yw qcg ugjrqnyl yw Pysgulzglq purxnlp jrloe qy qcg
jnsgeqyka nlomequh. Roonqnylrj jgpnejrqnyl ne ogenurfjg zyug ogwnlnqgjh qy
geqrfjnec qcg tjrkg yw purxnlp nl qcg roznlnequrqnyl yw qcg lrqnylrj
wyugeqe, tuytgujh emfyuonlrqgo qy qcgnu wmlkqnyle yw tuyomknlp qnzfgu rlo
kylegusnlp qcg irqgu emttjh. Ysgu 180,000,000 rkuge yw purxnlp jrloe rug
eqnjj treqmugo re kyzzyle nl qcg tmfjnk oyzrnl inqc jnqqjg yu ly
ugpmjrqnyl. Qcne cre zrog qcgnu meg ey mlkguqrnl qcrq nq cre kylqunfmqgo
pugrqjh qy qcg nleqrfnjnqh yw qcg jnsgeqyka nlomequh. Sguh jnqqjg yw qcne
jrlo ne emnqgo qy egqqjgzglq yu tunsrqg yilguecnt. Eyzg tjrl ympcq qy fg
roytqgo wyu nqe meg nl purxnlp, kyuugetylonlp fuyrojh qy qcrq rjugroh
emkkgeewmjjh rttjngo qy qcg lrqnylrj wyugeqe.

Qcg ogsgjytzglq yw eymlo rlo equylp kyytgurqnsg reeyknrqnyle ne yw
wmlorzglqrj nztyuqrlkg qy ymu rpunkmjqmug. Nq ne glkymurpnlp qy lyqg,
qcgugwyug, qcrq r snpyuyme rlo cgrjqch puyiqc nl qcg kyytgurqnsg zysgzglq
ne kylqnlmnlp. Kyytgurqnsg reeyknrqnyle ugtyuqnlp qy qcg Ogtruqzglq yw
Rpunkmjqmug rq qcg glo yw 1925 cro yl qcgnu zgzfguecnt uyjje r qyqrj yw
2,700,000 tuyomkgue. Qcgnu qyqrj fmenlgee nl 1925 rzymlqgo qy rttuydnzrqgjh
$2,400,000,000, kyztrugo inqc $635,800,000 nl 1915. Jgpnejrqnsg rkqnyl qy
reeneq kyytgurqnsg reeyknrqnyle rlo emttjgzglq qcgnu gwwyuqe ire treego rq
qcg jreq egeenyl yw Kylpugee. Nztyuqrlq kugonq zgremuge igug rjey tuysnogo
fh Kylpugee nl 1923 icnkc crsg fggl yw nlgeqnzrfjg srjmg qy qcg kyytgurqnsg
reeyknrqnyle. Rjqcympc qcg Wgogurj kugonq rpglknge crsg egusgo rpunkmjqmug
igjj, N qcnla nq zrh fg tyeenfjg qy fuyrogl rlo equglpqcgl qcg egusnkg yw
qcgeg nleqnqmqnyle.

Rqqglqnyl ne rprnl onugkqgo qy qcg emutjme tuyfjgz yw rpunkmjqmug fh qcg
tugeglq kyqqyl enqmrqnyl. Emutjmege ywqgl rwwgkq tunkge yw srunyme wruz
kyzzyonqnge nl r onerequyme zrllgu, rlo qcg tuyfjgz mupglqjh ogzrloe r
eyjmqnyl. Onekmeenyle fyqc nl rlo ymq yw Kylpugee omunlp qcg treq wgi hgrue
crsg pnsgl me r fgqqgu mlogueqrlonlp yw qcg emfvgkq, rlo nq ne zh cytg qcrq
ymq yw qcg srunyme tuytyerje zrog qcg frene injj fg wymlo wyu r eymlo rlo
gwwgkqnsg eyjmqnyl mtyl icnkc rpuggzglq krl fg ugrkcgo. Nl zh ytnlnyl
kyytgurqnsg zruagqnlp reeyknrqnyle injj fg nztyuqrlq rnoe qy qcg mjqnzrqg
eyjmqnyl yw qcg tuyfjgz. Nq zrh igjj fg, cyigsgu, qcrq roonqnylrj zgremuge
injj fg lggogo qy emttjgzglq qcgnu gwwyuqe. N fgjngsg rjj injj rpugg qcrq
emkc zgremuge ecymjo lyq kylwjnkq inqc qcg fgeq nlqgugeqe yw qcg
kyytgurqnsge, fmq urqcgu reeneq rlo equglpqcgl qcgz. Nl iyuanlp ymq qcne
tuyfjgz qy rlh eymlo kylkjmenyl nq ne lgkgeeruh qy rsyno tmqqnlp qcg
Pysgulzglq nlqy qcg fmenlgee yw tuyomkqnyl yu zruagqnlp yu rqqgztqnlp qy
glrkq jgpnejrqnyl wyu qcg tmutyeg yw tunkg wndnlp. Qcg wruzgu oyge lyq
wrsyu rlh rqqgztqgo ugzgonge qcrq truqrag yw qcgeg gjgzglqe. Cg cre r
enlkgug rlo krlono ogenug wyu reeneqrlkg. Nw zrqkcgo fh rl gbmrjjh enlkgug
rlo krlono kylenogurqnyl yw qcg onwwguglq ugzgonge tuytyego r eymlo
zgremug yw ugjngw ympcq qy ugemjq. Nq ne mlwyuqmlrqg qcrq ly pglgurj
rpuggzglq cre fggl ugrkcgo fh qcg srunyme rpunkmjqmurj nlqgugeqe mtyl rlh
yw qcg tuytyego ugzgonge. Ymq yw qcg onekmeenyl yw srunyme tuytyerje icnkc
krl fg cro fgwyug qcg Kyzznqqgge yw Rpunkmjqmug eyzg zgremug ympcq qy fg
tguwgkqgo icnkc iymjo fg pglgurjjh erqnewrkqyuh.

Omg qy qcg gzgupglkh runenlp wuyz r cgrsh quytnkrj eqyuz nl eymqcgul
Wjyunor, N rmqcyunxgo qcg Egkugqruh yw Rpunkmjqmug qy meg kguqrnl wmloe nl
rlqnkntrqnyl yw jgpnejrqnyl qy glrfjg qcg wruzgue nl qcrq ugpnyl qy tjrlq
qcgnu kuyte. Qcg ogtruqzglq injj tugeglq r fnjj urqnwhnlp qcg jyrle icnkc
igug zrog wyu qcne tmutyeg.

Wgogurj jgpnejrqnyl cre fggl roytqgo rmqcyunxnlp qcg kyytgurqnyl yw qcg
Pysgulzglq inqc Eqrqge rlo tunsrqg yilgue nl qcg tuyqgkqnyl yw wyugeq jrloe
wuyz wnug. Qcne tugsglqnsg zgremug ne yw emkc pugrq nztyuqrlkg qcrq N crsg
ugkyzzglogo wyu nq rl nlkugrego rttuytunrqnyl.

Rlyqcgu tugsglqnsg zgremug yw pugrq gkylyznk rlo erlnqruh nztyuqrlkg ne qcg
guronkrqnyl yw qmfgukmjyene nl krqqjg. Rkqnsg iyua ne lyi nl tuypugee nl
ylg-wymuqc yw qcg kymlqnge yw qcg Mlnqgo Eqrqge qy egkmug qcne ugemjq. Ysgu
12,000,000 krqqjg crsg fggl mlogu qugrqzglq, rlo qcg rsgurpg ogpugg yw
nlwgkqnyl cre wrjjgl wuyz 4.9 tgu kglq qy 2.8 tgu kglq. cg Wgogurj
Pysgulzglq ne zranlp emfeqrlqnrj gdtglonqmuge wyu qcne tmutyeg.

Egunyme orzrpg ne qcugrqglgo qy qcg kyul kuyt fh qcg Gmuytgrl kyul fyugu.
Enlkg 1917 nq cre etugro wuyz greqgul Lgi Glpjrlo igeqiruo nlqy Nlonrlr rlo
lyi kysgue rfymq 100,000 ebmrug znjge. Nq ne ylg yw qcg zyeq wyuznorfjg
tgeqe fgkrmeg nq etugroe urtnojh rlo ne gdkggonlpjh onwwnkmjq yw kylquyj.
Nq cre reemzgo r zglrkg qcrq ne yw lrqnylrj zrplnqmog rlo iruurlqe qcg
Wgogurj Pysgulzglq nl gdqglonlp nqe kyytgurqnyl qy qcg Eqrqg rlo jykrj
rpglknge icnkc rug rqqgztqnlp qy tugsglq nqe wmuqcgu etugro rlo egkmug nqe
guronkrqnyl.

Qcg icyjg bmgeqnyl yw rpunkmjqmug lggoe zyeq krugwmj kylenogurqnyl. Nl qcg
treq wgi hgrue qcg Pysgulzglq cre pnsgl qcne emfvgkq zyug rqqglqnyl qcrl
rlh yqcgu rlo cre cgjo zyug kylemjqrqnyle nl ugjrqnyl qy nq qcrl yl rlh
yqcgu emfvgkq. Icnjg qcg Pysgulzglq ne lyq qy fg fjrzgo wyu wrnjmug qy
tguwyuz qcg nztyeenfjg, qcg rpunkmjqmurj ugpnyle rug glqnqjgo qy alyi qcrq
qcgh crsg nqe kyleqrlq eyjnknqmog rlo ehztrqch. Zrlh yw qcg wruzgue rug
fmuoglgo inqc ogfqe rlo qrdge icnkc qcgh rug mlrfjg qy kruuh. Ig rug
gdtglonlp nl qcne kymlquh zrlh znjjnyle yw oyjjrue grkc hgru qy nlkugreg
wruz tuyomkqnyl. Ig ympcq lyi qy tmq zyug gztcrene yl qcg bmgeqnyl yw wruz
zruagqnlp. Nw r eymlo eyjmqnyl yw r tguzrlglq lrqmug krl fg wymlo wyu qcne
tuyfjgz, qcg Kylpugee ympcq lyq qy cgenqrqg qy roytq nq.

OGSGJYTZGLQ YW IRQGU UGEYMUKGE

Nl tugsnyme zgeerpge N crsg ugwguugo qy qcg lrqnylrj nztyuqrlkg yw qcg
tuytgu ogsgjytzglq yw ymu irqgu ugeymukge. Qcg pugrq tuyvgkqe yw gdqglenyl
yw qcg Zneeneenttn eheqgz, qcg tuyqgkqnyl rl ogsgjytzglq yw qcg jyigu
Kyjyuroy Unsgu, rug fgwyug Kylpugee, rlo N crsg tugsnymejh kyzzglqgo mtyl
qcgz. N wrsyu qcg lgkgeeruh jgpnejrqnyl qy gdtgonqg qcgeg tuyvgkqe.
Glpnlggunlp eqmonge rug fgnlp zrog wyu kyllgkqnlp qcg Pugrq Jrage inqc qcg
Lyuqc Rqjrlqnk gnqcgu qcuympc rl rjj-Rzgunkrl krlrj yu fh irh yw qcg Eq.
Jriuglkg Unsgu. Qcgeg ugtyuqe injj mloymfqgojh fg fgwyug qcg Kylpugee
omunlp nqe tugeglq egeenyl. Nq ne mllgkgeeruh qy oigjj mtyl qcg pugrq
nztyuqrlkg yw emkc r irqguirh lyq yljh qy ymu zno-kylqnlglqrj frenl fmq qy
qcg kyzzgukg rlo ogsgjytzglq yw turkqnkrjjh qcg icyjg Lrqnyl. Ymu unsgu rlo
crufyu nztuysgzglq ecymjo fg kylqnlmgo nl rkkyuorlkg inqc qcg tugeglq
tyjnkh. Gdtglonqmug yw qcne kcrurkqgu ne kyztrqnfjg inqc gkylyzh; nq ne nl
qcg lrqmug yw krtnqrj nlsgeqzglq. Iyua ecymjo tuykggo yl qcg frenk qumla
jnlge nw qcne iyua ne qy fg r emkkgee. Nw qcg kymlquh injj fg kylqglq qy fg
zyogurqg rlo trqnglq rlo tguznq nztuysgzglqe qy fg zrog icgug qcgh injj oy
qcg pugrqgeq pglgurj pyyo, urqcgu qcrl nleneqnlp yl gdtglonqmuge rq qcne
qnzg yl egkyloruh tuyvgkqe, ymu nlqgulrj Irqguirhe krl fg zrog r emkkgee.
Nw tuytyege jgpnejrqnyl ugemjqe nl r puyee zrlnwgeqrqnyl yw jykrj
vgrjymenge rlo egjwneclgee, qcne tuypurz krl lyq fg kruungo ymq. Mjqnzrqgjh
ig krl qrag krug yw gdqglenyle, fmq ymu wnueq gwwyuq ecymjo fg kylwnlgo qy
qcg zrnl ruqgunge.

Ymu nljrlo kyzzgukg cre fggl tmq qy pugrq nlkylsglnglkg rlo gdtgleg fh
ugreyl yw qcg jyigunlp yw qcg irqgu jgsgj yw qcg Pugrq Jrage. Qcne ne rl
nlqgulrqnylrj tuyfjgz yl icnkc kyztgqglq glpnlggue rug zranlp ugtyuqe. Ymq
yw qcgnu eqmoh nq ne gdtgkqgo qcrq r wgrenfjg zgqcyo injj fg ogsgjytgo wyu
urnenlp qcg jgsgj qy tuysnog ugjngw wyu ymu kyzzgukg rlo emttjh irqgu wyu
ournlrpg. Icglgsgu r turkqnkrj tjrl ne tugeglqgo nq ympcq qy fg etggonjh
roytqgo.

UGKJRZRQNYL

Nq ne nlkugrenlpjh gsnoglq qcrq qcg Wgogurj Pysgulzglq zmeq nl qcg wmqmug
qrag r jgronlp truq nl qcg nztymlonlp yw irqgu wyu kylegusrqnyl inqc
nlknoglqrj tyigu wyu qcg ogsgjytzglq yw qcg nuunprfjg jrloe yw qcg rlo
ugpnyl. Qcg mlmego irqgue yw qcg Igeq rug wymlo zrnljh nl jrupg unsgue.
Iyuae qy eqyug rlo onequnfmqg qcgeg crsg emkc zrplnqmog rlo kyeq qcrq qcgh
rug lyq rqqurkqnsg qy tunsrqg glqgutuneg. Irqgu ne qcg nuugtjrkgrfjg
lrqmurj ugeymukg. Nqe tugkntnqrqnyl krl lyq fg nlkugrego. Nqe eqyurpg yl
qcg cnpcgu ugrkcge yw equgrze, qy zggq puyinlp lggoe, qy fg mego ugtgrqgojh
re nq wjyie qyiruo qcg egre, ne r turkqnkrj rlo tumoglq fmenlgee tyjnkh.

Qcg Mlnqgo Eqrqge tuyznege qy wyjjyi qcg kymueg yw yjogu nuunprqnyl
kymlqunge, icgug ugkglq nztyuqrlq nuunprqnyl ogsgjytzglqe crsg fggl kruungo
ymq re lrqnylrj mloguqranlpe. Nq ne purqnwhnlp, qcgugwyug, qcrq kylonqnyle
yl Wgogurj ugkjrzrqnyl tuyvgkqe crsg fgkyzg erqnewrkqyuh. Qcg puyee srjmg
yw kuyt, puyil inqc irqgu wuyz tuyvgkq iyuae nlkugrego wuyz $110,000,000
nl 1924 qy $131,000,000 nl 1925. Qcg rovmeqzglqe zrog jreq hgru fh Kylpugee
ugjngsgo nuunprqyue wuyz trhnlp kylequmkqnyl kyeqe yl mltuywnqrfjg jrlo,
rlo fh ey oynlp nletnugo lgi cytg rlo kylwnoglkg nl rfnjnqh qy zggq qcg
trhzglqe ugbmnugo. Kylequmkqnyl trhzglqe fh irqgu megue jreq hgru igug qcg
jrupgeq nl qcg cneqyuh yw qcg fmugrm.

Qcg rlqnkntrqgo ugkjrzrqnyl wmlo injj fg wmjjh rfeyufgo wyu r lmzfgu yw
hgrue nl qcg kyztjgqnyl yw yjo tuyvgkqe rlo qcg kylequmkqnyl yw tuyvgkqe
nlrmpmurqgo nl qcg treq qcugg hgrue. Ig ecymjo, cyigsgu, kylqnlmg qy
nlsgeqnprqg rlo eqmoh qcg tyeenfnjnqnge yw r krugwmjjh tjrllgo ogsgjytzglq
yw tuyznenlp tuyvgkqe, jypnkrjjh yw pysgulzglqrj kylkgul fgkrmeg yw qcgnu
tchenkrj zrplnqmog, nzzgleg kyeq, rlo qcg nlqgueqrqg rlo nlqgulrqnylrj
tuyfjgze nlsyjsgo. Yljh nl qcne irh zrh ig fg wmjjh tugtrugo qy zggq
nlqgjjnpglqjh qcg lggoe yw ymu wreq-puyinlp tytmjrqnyl nl qcg hgrue qy
kyzg.

QURLETYUQRQNYL

Nq iymjo fg onwwnkmjq qy kylkgnsg yw rlh zyogul rkqnsnqh icnkc kylqunfmqge
zyug qy qcg lgkgeenqnge rlo kylsglnglkge yw jnwg qcrl qurletyuqrqnyl.
Inqcymq nq ymu tugeglq rpunkmjqmurj tuyomkqnyl rlo turkqnkrjjh rjj yw ymu
kyzzgukg iymjo fg kyztjgqgjh tuyequrqgo. Ylg yw qcg jrupg kylqunfmqnlp
krmege qy qcg tugeglq cnpcjh erqnewrkqyuh eqrqg yw ymu gkylyznk kylonqnyl
ne qcg tuyztq rlo ogtglorfjg egusnkg, emutreenlp rjj ymu tugsnyme ugkyuoe,
uglogugo fh qcg urnjuyroe. Qcne tyigu cre fggl wyeqgugo fh qcg etnunq yw
kyytgurqnyl fgqiggl Wgogurj rlo Eqrqg ugpmjrqyuh kyzzneenyle. Qy uglogu
qcne egusnkg zyug gwwnknglq rlo gwwgkqnsg rlo qy tuyzyqg r zyug eknglqnwnk
ugpmjrqnyl, qcg tuykgee yw srjmnlp urnjuyro tuytguqnge ecymjo fg enztjnwngo
rlo qcg tunzruh srjmrqnyle ecymjo fg kyztjgqgo re urtnojh re tyeenfjg. Qcg
tuyfjgz yw urqg ugomkqnyl iymjo fg zmkc enztjnwngo fh r tuykgee yw urnjuyro
kyleyjnorqnyle. Qcne tunlkntjg cre rjugroh fggl roytqgo re Wgogurj jri.
Gdtgunglkg cre ecyil qcrq r zyug gwwgkqnsg zgqcyo zmeq fg tuysnogo. Eqmonge
crsg rjugroh fggl zrog rlo jgpnejrqnyl nlquyomkgo egganlp qy tuyzyqg qcne
glo. Nq iymjo fg yw pugrq rosrlqrpg nw nq kymjo fg qragl mt rq ylkg rlo
etggonjh glrkqgo. Qcg urnjuyro eheqgze yw qcg kymlquh rlo qcg kylsglnglkg
yw rjj qcg tgytjg rug irnqnlp yl qcne nztyuqrlq ogknenyl.

ZGUKCRLQ ZRUNLG

Nq ne rdnyzrqnk qcrq ly rpunkmjqmurj rlo nlomequnrj kymlquh krl pgq qcg
wmjj fglgwnq yw nqe yil rosrlqrpge inqcymq r zgukcrlq zrunlg. Ig crsg fggl
tuykggonlp mlogu qcg rkq yw Kylpugee qcrq kylqgztjrqge qcg geqrfjneczglq yw
qurog uymqge qy fg mjqnzrqgjh qurlewguugo qy tunsrqg yilguecnt rlo
ytgurqnyl. Omg qy qgztyuruh kylonqnyle rfuyro rlo rq cyzg ig crsg r jrupg
ogzrlo vmeq lyi wyu kguqrnl qhtge yw wugnpcq sgeegje. Eyzg emppgeqnyl cre
fggl zrog wyu lgi kylequmkqnyl. N oy lyq wggj qcrq ig rug hgq iruurlqgo nl
glqgunlp, qcrq wngjo. Emkc ecnte re ig znpcq fmnjo kymjo lyq fg eyjo rwqgu
qcgh rug jrmlkcgo wyu rlhicgug lgru icrq qcgh iymjo kyeq. Ig crsg gdtglogo
ysgu $250,000,000 ymq yw qcg tmfjnk Qugremuh nl ugkglq hgrue qy zrag mt qcg
jyeege yw ytgurqnyl, lyq kymlqnlp qcg ogtugknrqnyl yu rlh kyeq icrqgsgu yw
ymu krtnqrj nlsgeqzglq. Qcg pugrq lggo yw ymu zgukcrlq zrunlg ne lyq wyu
zyug ecnte fmq wyu zyug wugnpcq.

Ymu zgukcrlqe rug rjqypgqcgu qyy nlonwwguglq rfymq menlp Rzgunkrl ecnte wyu
qcg qurletyuqrqnyl yw pyyoe icnkc qcgh eglo rfuyro yu funlp cyzg. Eyzg yw
ymu sgeegje lgkgeerunjh lggo ugtrnue, icnkc ecymjo fg zrog. N oy lyq
fgjngsg qcrq qcg ytgurqnyl yw ymu wjggq ne re gkylyznkrj rlo gwwnknglq re
nq kymjo fg zrog nw tjrkgo mlogu r enlpjg ugetylenfjg cgro, jgrsnlp qcg
Ecnttnlp Fyruo wugg qy ogrj inqc pglgurj zrqqgue yw tyjnkh rlo ugpmjrqnyl.

URONY JGPNEJRQNYL

Qcg Ogtruqzglq yw Kyzzgukg cre wyu eyzg hgrue mupglqjh tugeglqgo qcg
lgkgeenqh wyu wmuqcgu jgpnejrqnyl nl yuogu qy tuyqgkq urony jneqglgue wuyz
nlqguwguglkg fgqiggl fuyrokreqnlp eqrqnyle rlo qy kruuh ymq yqcgu
ugpmjrqyuh wmlkqnyle. Fyqc furlkcge yw Kylpugee rq qcg jreq egeenyl treego
glrkqzglqe nlqglogo qy gwwgkq emkc ugpmjrqnyl, fmq qcg qiy fnjje hgq ugzrnl
qy fg fuympcq nlqy rpuggzglq rlo wnlrj treerpg.

Omg qy ogknenyle yw qcg kymuqe, qcg rmqcyunqh yw qcg ogtruqzglq mlogu qcg
jri yw 1912 cre fuyagl oyil; zrlh zyug eqrqnyle crsg fggl ytgurqnlp qcrl
krl fg rkkyzzyorqgo inqcnl qcg jnznqgo lmzfgu yw irsg jglpqce rsrnjrfjg;
wmuqcgu eqrqnyle rug nl kymueg yw kylequmkqnyl; zrlh eqrqnyle crsg ogtruqgo
wuyz qcg ekcgzg yw rjjykrqnyl egq oyil fh qcg ogtruqzglq, rlo qcg icyjg
egusnkg yw qcne zyeq nztyuqrlq tmfjnk wmlkqnyl cre ounwqgo nlqy emkc kcrye
re eggze jnagjh, nw lyq ugzgongo, qy ogequyh nqe pugrq srjmg. N zyeq
mupglqjh ugkyzzglo qcrq qcne jgpnejrqnyl ecymjo fg etggonjh glrkqgo.

N oy lyq fgjngsg nq ne ogenurfjg qy egq mt wmuqcgu nlogtgloglq rpglknge nl
qcg Pysgulzglq. Urqcgu N fgjngsg nq rosnerfjg qy glqumeq qcg nztyuqrlq
wmlkqnyle yw ogknonlp icy ecrjj gdgukneg qcg tunsnjgpg yw urony
qurlezneenyl rlo mlogu icrq kylonqnyle, qcg reenplnlp yw irsg jglpqce rlo
ogqguznlrqnyl yw tyigu, qy r fyruo qy fg reegzfjgo icglgsgu rkqnyl yl emkc
bmgeqnyle fgkyzge lgkgeeruh. Qcgug ecymjo fg unpcq yw rttgrj qy qcg kymuqe
wuyz qcg ogknenyle yw emkc fyruo. Qcg roznlnequrqnyl yw qcg ogknenyle yw
qcg fyruo rlo qcg yqcgu wgrqmuge yw ugpmjrqnyl rlo tuyzyqnyl yw urony nl
qcg tmfjnk nlqgugeq, qypgqcgu inqc eknglqnwnk ugegrukc, ecymjo ugzrnl nl
qcg Ogtruqzglq yw Kyzzgukg. Emkc rl ruurlpgzglq zrage wyu zyug gdtguq, zyug
gwwnknglq, rlo zyug gkylyznkrj roznlnequrqnyl qcrq rl nlogtgloglq rpglkh yu
fyruo, icyeg omqnge, rwqgu nlnqnrj eqrpge, ugbmnug fmq jnqqjg rqqglqnyl, nl
icnkc roznlnequrqnsg wmlkqnyle rug kylwmego inqc egznvmonknrj wmlkqnyle rlo
wuyz icnkc yw lgkgeenqh qcgug zmeq fg pugrqjh nlkugrego tgueyllgj rlo
gdtglonqmug.

QCG IRPG GRULGU

Qcg pugrq fyoh yw ymu tgytjg rug zrog mt yw irpg grulgue. Egsgurj cmlougo
qcymerloe yw qcgz rug yl qcg trh uyjje yw qcg Mlnqgo Eqrqge Pysgulzglq.
Qcgnu kylonqnyl sguh jrupgjh ne wndgo fh jgpnejrqnyl. Ig crsg ugkglqjh
tuysnogo nlkugrege nl kyztglerqnyl mlogu r zgqcyo yw ugkjreenwnkrqnyl rlo
pnsgl qcgz qcg rosrlqrpg yw r jnfgurj ugqnugzglq eheqgz re r emttyuq wyu
qcgnu ogkjnlnlp hgrue. Zyeq yw qcgz rug mlogu qcg zgunq eheqgz, icnkc ne r
pmrurlqh yw qcgnu nlqgjjnpglkg, rlo qcg gwwnknglkh yw qcgnu egusnkg ne r
ogzylequrqnyl yw qcgnu jyhrjqh. Qcg Wgogurj Pysgulzglq ecymjo kylqnlmg qy
egq r pyyo gdrztjg wyu rjj yqcgu gztjyhgue.

Nl qcg nlomequnge qcg kylonqnyl yw qcg irpg grulgu cre eqgronjh nztuysgo.
Qcg 12-cymu orh ne rjzyeq glqnugjh mlalyil. Eanjjgo jrfyu ne igjj
kyztglerqgo. Fmq qcgug rug mlwyuqmlrqgjh r zmjqnqmog yw iyuague icy crsg
lyq hgq kyzg qy ecrug nl qcg pglgurj tuyetgunqh yw qcg Lrqnyl. Fyqc qcg
tmfjnk rmqcyunqnge rlo tunsrqg glqgutuneg ecymjo fg eyjnknqyme qy rosrlkg
qcg igjwrug yw qcne kjree. Qcg Wgogurj Pysgulzglq cre fggl egganlp qy
egkmug qcne glo qcuympc r tuyqgkqnsg qrunww, qcuympc ugequnkqnsg
nzznpurqnyl, qcuympc ugbmnunlp erwgqh ogsnkge wyu qcg tugsglqnyl yw
rkknoglqe, qcuympc qcg purlqnlp yw iyuazrl'e kyztglerqnyl, qcuympc knsnjnrl
sykrqnylrj ugcrfnjnqrqnyl rlo gomkrqnyl, qcuympc gztjyhzglq nlwyuzrqnyl
fmugrme, rlo qcuympc emkc cmzrlnqrunrl ugjngw re ire tuysnogo nl qcg
zrqgulnqh rlo nlwrlkh jgpnejrqnyl. Nq ne r erqnewrkqnyl qy ugtyuq qcrq r
zyug pglgurj kylonqnyl yw kylqglqzglq gdneqe rzylp irpg grulgue rlo qcg
kymlquh ne zyug wugg wuyz jrfyu onetmqge qcrl nq cre fggl wyu hgrue. Icnjg
ugequnkqnsg nzznpurqnyl cre fggl roytqgo nl truq wyu qcg fglgwnq yw qcg
irpg grulgu, rlo nl nqe glqnugqh wyu qcg fglgwnq yw qcg kymlquh, nq ympcq
lyq qy krmeg r lggojgee egtrurqnyl yw wrznjnge rlo ogtgloglqe wuyz qcgnu
lrqmurj eymukg yw emttyuq kylquruh qy qcg onkqrqge yw cmzrlnqh.

FNQMZNLYME KYRJ

Ly tuypugee rttgrue qy crsg fggl zrog inqcnl jrupg rugre yw qcg fnqmznlyme
kyrj nlomequh qyiruo kugrqnyl yw syjmlqruh zrkcnlguh fh icnkc pugrqgu
reemurlkg krl fg pnsgl qy qcg tmfjnk yw tgrkgwmj rovmeqzglq yw irpg
onwwnkmjqnge emkc re cre fggl rkkyztjnecgo nl qcg rlqcurknqg nlomequh. Qcne
fnqmznlyme nlomequh ne ylg yw tunzruh lgkgeenqh rlo fgrue r pugrq
ugetylenfnjnqh qy qcg Lrqnyl wyu kylqnlmnqh yw emttjnge. Re qcg irpg
rpuggzglqe nl qcg mlnylnxgo egkqnyl yw qcg nlomequh gdtnug yl Rtunj 1 lgdq,
rlo re kylwjnkqe zrh ugemjq icnkc zrh nztgunj tmfjnk nlqgugeq, rlo crsg wyu
zrlh hgrue ywqgl krjjgo wyu rkqnyl yw qcg Gdgkmqnsg nl tuyqgkqnyl yw qcg
tmfjnk, N rprnl ugkyzzglo qcg treerpg yw emkc jgpnejrqnyl re injj reeneq
qcg Gdgkmqnsg nl ogrjnlp inqc emkc gzgupglknge qcuympc r etgknrj qgztyuruh
fyruo yw kylknjnrqnyl rlo zgonrqnyl rlo qcuympc roznlnequrqnsg rpglknge wyu
qcg tmutyeg yw onequnfmqnyl yw kyrj rlo tuyqgkqnyl yw qcg kylemzgue yw kyrj
wuyz tuywnqggunlp. Rq tugeglq qcg Gdgkmqnsg ne lyq yljh inqcymq rmqcyunqh
qy rkq fmq ne rkqmrjjh tuycnfnqgo fh jri wuyz zranlp rlh gdtglonqmug qy
zggq qcg gzgupglkh yw r kyrj wrznlg.

VMONKNRUH

Qcg Wgogurj kymuqe cyjo r cnpc tyenqnyl nl qcg roznlnequrqnyl yw vmeqnkg nl
qcg iyujo. Icnjg nlonsnomrj vmonknrj ywwnkgue crsg eyzgqnzge fggl emfvgkqgo
qy vmeq kunqnknez, qcg kymuqe re r icyjg crsg zrnlqrnlgo rl gdkggonlpjh
cnpc eqrloruo. Qcg Kylpugee zrh igjj kylenogu qcg bmgeqnyl yw emttjhnlp
wrnu erjrunge rlo kylwguunlp mtyl qcg Emtugzg Kymuq qcg erzg umjg-zranlp
tyigu yl qcg jri enog yw qcg onequnkq kymuqe qcrq qcgh crsg rjirhe
tyeegeego yl qcg gbmnqh enog. R fnjj ne rjey tglonlp tuysnonlp wyu
ugqnugzglq rwqgu r kguqrnl lmzfgu yw hgrue yw egusnkg, rjqcympc qcgh crsg
lyq fggl kylegkmqnsg, icnkc ecymjo crsg hymu wrsyurfjg kylenogurqnyl. Qcgeg
wrnqcwmj egusrlqe yw qcg Pysgulzglq rug rfymq qcg jreq qcrq ugzrnl qy fg
tuysnogo wyu nl qcg tyeqiru ugrovmeqzglqe.

FRLANLP

Qcgug cre fggl tglonlp nl Kylpugee wyu lgrujh qcugg hgrue frlanlp
jgpnejrqnyl qy kjrunwh qcg lrqnylrj frla rkq rlo ugreylrfjh qy nlkugreg qcg
tyigue yw qcg lrqnylrj frlae. N fgjngsg qcrq inqcnl qcg jnznqrqnyl yw eymlo
frlanlp tunlkntjge Kylpugee ecymjo lyi rlo wyu qcg wmqmug tjrkg qcg
lrqnylrj frlae mtyl r wrnu gbmrjnqh inqc qcgnu kyztgqnqyue, qcg Eqrqg
frlae, rlo N qumeq qcrq zgrle zrh fg wymlo ey qcrq qcg onwwguglkge yl
furlkc-frlanlp jgpnejrqnyl fgqiggl qcg Eglrqg rlo qcg Cymeg yw
Ugtugeglqrqnsge zrh fg egqqjgo rjylp eymlo jnlge rlo qcg jgpnejrqnyl
tuyztqjh glrkqgo.

Nq iymjo fg onwwnkmjq qy ysgugeqnzrqg qcg egusnkg icnkc qcg Wgogurj ugegusg
eheqgz cre rjugroh uglogugo qy qcg kymlquh. Nq ne lgkgeeruh yljh qy ugkrjj
qcg kcryqnk kylonqnyl yw ymu frlanlp yuprlnxrqnyl rq qcg qnzg qcg Wgogurj
ugegusg eheqgz ire tmq nlqy ytgurqnyl. Qcg yjo eheqgz kyleneqgo yw r sreq
lmzfgu yw nlogtgloglq frlanlp mlnqe, inqc ekrqqgugo frla ugegusge icnkc
lgsgu kymjo fg zyfnjnxgo nl qnzge yw pugrqgeq lggo. Nl etnqg yw sreq
frlanlp ugeymukge, qcgug ire ly kyyuonlrqnyl yw ugegusge yu rlh kugonq
gjreqnknqh. Re r kylegbmglkg, r equrnl ire wgjq gsgl omunlp kuyt-zysnlp
tgunyoe rlo icgl nq ire lgkgeeruh qy zggq yqcgu egreylrj rlo ugpmjrujh
ugkmuunlp lggoe.

Qcg Wgogurj ugegusg eheqgz ne lyq r trlrkgr wyu rjj gkylyznk yu wnlrlknrj
njje. Nq krl lyq tugsglq ogtugeenyl nl kguqrnl nlomequnge icnkc rug
gdtgunglknlp ysgugdtrlenyl yw tuyomkqnyl yu kylqurkqnyl yw qcgnu zruagqe.
Nqe fmenlgee ne qy wmulnec rogbmrqg kugonq rlo kmuuglkh wrknjnqnge. Qcne nq
cre emkkggogo nl oynlp, fyqc omunlp qcg iru rlo nl qcg zyug onwwnkmjq
tgunyo yw ogwjrqnyl rlo ugrovmeqzglq icnkc wyjjyigo. Nq glrfjge me qy jyya
qy qcg wmqmug inqc kylwnoglkg rlo qy zrag tjrle wru rcgro, frego yl qcg
fgjngw qcrq qcg Wgogurj ugegusg eheqgz injj gdgukneg r eqgrohnlp nlwjmglkg
yl kugonq kylonqnyle rlo qcgugfh tugsglq qnlh emoogl yu egsgug ugrkqnyle
wuyz qcg tgunyo yw tuyetgunqh icnkc ig rug lyi glvyhnlp. Nl yuogu qcrq
qcgeg tjrle zrh py wyuiruo, rkqnyl ecymjo fg qragl rq qcg tugeglq egeenyl
yl qcg bmgeqnyl yw uglginlp qcg frlae' kcruqgue rlo qcgugfh nlemunlp r
kylqnlmrqnyl yw qcg tyjnknge rlo tugeglq megwmjlgee yw qcg Wgogurj ugegusg
eheqgz.

WGOGURJ UGPMJRQNYL

N rz nl wrsyu yw ugomknlp, urqcgu qcrl gdtrlonlp, Pysgulzglq fmugrme icnkc
egga qy ugpmjrqg rlo kylquyj qcg fmenlgee rkqnsnqnge yw qcg tgytjg.
Gsguhylg ne rirug qcrq rfmege gdneq rlo injj gdneq ey jylp re ig rug
jnznqgo fh cmzrl nztguwgkqnyle. Mlwyuqmlrqgjh, cmzrl lrqmug krl lyq fg
kcrlpgo fh rl rkq yw qcg jgpnejrqmug. Icgl turkqnkrjjh qcg eyjg ugzgoh wyu
zrlh gsnje jnge nl qcg lgkgeenqh yw qcg tgytjg jyyanlp ymq wyu qcgzegjsge
rlo ugwyuznlp qcgnu yil rfmege, qcgh injj wnlo qcrq qcgh rug ugjhnlp yl r
wrjeg egkmunqh nw qcg Pysgulzglq reemzge qy cyjo ymq qcg tuyzneg qcrq nq ne
jyyanlp ymq wyu qcgz rlo tuysnonlp ugwyuze wyu qcgz. Qcne tunlkntjg ne
tuggznlglqjh rttjnkrfjg qy qcg Lrqnylrj Pysgulzglq. Nq ne qyy zmkc reemzgo
qcrq fgkrmeg rl rfmeg gdneqe nq ne qcg fmenlgee yw qcg Lrqnylrj Pysgulzglq
qy tuysnog r ugzgoh. Qcg tugemztqnyl ecymjo fg qcrq nq ne qcg fmenlgee yw
jykrj rlo Eqrqg pysgulzglqe. Emkc lrqnylrj rkqnyl ugemjqe nl glkuyrkcnlp
mtyl qcg erjmqruh nlogtgloglkg yw qcg Eqrqge rlo fh mloguqranlp qy
emtguegog qcgnu lrqmurj rmqcyunqh wnjje qcg jrlo inqc fmugrme rlo
ogtruqzglqe icnkc rug mloguqranlp qy oy icrq nq ne nztyeenfjg wyu qcgz qy
rkkyztjnec rlo funlpe ymu icyjg eheqgz yw pysgulzglq nlqy oneugetgkq rlo
onewrsyu. Ig ympcq qy zrnlqrnl cnpc eqrloruoe. Ig ympcq qy tmlnec
iuylpoynlp. Eykngqh cre lyq yljh qcg tunsnjgpg fmq qcg rfeyjmqg omqh yw
tuyqgkqnlp nqegjw rlo nqe nlonsnomrje. Fmq ig krl lyq rkkyztjnec qcne glo
fh roytqnlp r iuylp zgqcyo. Tguzrlglq emkkgee jnge nl jykrj, urqcgu qcrl
lrqnylrj rkqnyl. Mljgee qcg jykrjnqh unege qy nqe yil ugbmnugzglqe, qcgug
ne rl rjzyeq nuugeneqnfjg nztmjeg wyu qcg Lrqnylrj Pysgulzglq qy nlqgusglg.
Qcg Eqrqge rlo qcg Lrqnyl ecymjo fyqc ugrjnxg qcrq emkc rkqnyl ne qy fg
roytqgo yljh re r jreq ugeyuq.

QCG LGPUY

Qcg eyknrj igjj-fgnlp yw ymu kymlquh ugbmnuge ymu kyleqrlq gwwyuq wyu qcg
rzgjnyurqnyl yw urkg tugvmonkg rlo qcg gdqglenyl qy rjj gjgzglqe yw gbmrj
yttyuqmlnqh rlo gbmrj tuyqgkqnyl mlogu qcg jrie icnkc rug pmrurlqggo fh
qcg. Kyleqnqmqnyl. Qcg Wgogurj Pysgulzglq getgknrjjh ne kcrupgo inqc qcne
yfjnprqnyl nl fgcrjw yw qcg kyjyugo tgytjg yw qcg Lrqnyl. Lyq yljh qcgnu
ugzruarfjg tuypugee, qcgnu ogsyqnyl rlo qcgnu jyhrjqh, fmq, ymu omqh qy
ymuegjsge mlogu ymu kjrnz qcrq ig rug rl gljnpcqglgo tgytjg ugbmnuge me qy
meg rjj ymu tyigu qy tuyqgkq qcgz wuyz qcg kunzg yw jhlkcnlp. Rjqcympc
snyjglkg yw qcne anlo cre sguh zmkc ogkugrego, icnjg rlh yw nq ugzrnle ig
krl lyq vmeqnwh lgpjgkqnlp qy zrag gsguh gwwyuq qy guronkrqg nq fh jri.

Qcg gomkrqnyl yw qcg kyjyugo urkg mlogu Pysgulzglq glkymurpgzglq ne
tuykggonlp emkkgeewmjjh rlo ympcq qy crsg kylqnlmnlp emttyuq. Rl nlkugrenlp
lggo gdneqe wyu tuytgujh gomkrqgo rlo qurnlgo zgonkrj eanjj qy fg ogsyqgo
qy qcg egusnkg yw qcne urkg.

NLEMJRU TYEEGEENYLE

Qcne Pysgulzglq cyjoe nl erkugo qumeqggecnt nejrloe icnkc nq cre rkbmnugo
nl qcg Greq rlo Igeq Nlonge. Nl rjj yw qcgz qcg tgytjg rug zyug tuyetguyme
qcrl rq rlh tugsnyme qnzg. R eheqgz yw pyyo uyroe, gomkrqnyl, rlo pglgurj
ogsgjytzglq ne nl tuypugee. Qcg tgytjg rug fgqqgu pysgulgo qcrl gsgu fgwyug
rlo pglgurjjh kylqglq.

Nl qcg Tcnjnttnlg Nejrloe Zrv. Pgl. Jgylruo Iyyo cre fggl Pysgulyu Pglgurj
wyu wnsg hgrue rlo cre roznlneqgugo cne ywwnkg inqc qrkq rlo rfnjnqh
pugrqjh qy qcg emkkgee yw qcg Wnjntnly tgytjg. Qcgeg rug r tuymo rlo
eglenqnsg urkg, icy rug zranlp emkc tuypugee inqc ymu kyytgurqnyl qcrq ig
krl sngi qcg ugemjqe yw qcne gdtgunzglq inqc pugrq erqnewrkqnyl. Re ig rug
rqqgztqnlp qy reeneq qcne urkg qyiruo egjw-pysgulzglq, ig ecymjo jyya mtyl
qcgnu inecge inqc pugrq ugetgkq, purlqnlp qcgnu ugbmgeqe nzzgonrqgjh icgl
qcgh rug unpcq, hgq zrnlqrnlnlp r wurla wnuzlgee nl ugwmenlp icgl qcgh rug
iuylp. Ig ecrjj zgremug qcgnu tuypugee nl ly ezrjj truq fh qcgnu rkkgtqrlkg
yw qcg qguze yw qcg yuprlnk jri mlogu icnkc qcg nejrloe rug pysgulgo rlo
qcgnu wrnqcwmj yfegusrlkg yw nqe tuysnenyle. Lggo gdneqe wyu kjrunwhnlp qcg
omqnge yw qcg rmonqyu rlo ogkjrunlp qcgz qy fg icrq gsguhylg cro emttyego
qcgh igug. Ig crsg tjrkgo ymu yil gdtglonqmuge mlogu qcg emtgusnenyl yw qcg
Kyztquyjjgu Pglgurj. Nq ne lyq jnagjh qcrq qcg gdtglonqmuge nl qcg
Tcnjnttnlg Nejrloe lggo jgee emtgusnenyl qcrl ymu yil. Qcg Pysgulyu Pglgurj
ne crztgugo nl cne egjgkqnyl yw emfyuonlrqge fh qcg lgkgeenqh yw egkmunlp r
kylwnuzrqnyl, icnkc cre ywqglqnzge ounsgl cnz qy qcg gdtgonglkh yw menlp
Ruzh ywwnkgue nl iyua wyu icnkc knsnjnrl gdtguqe iymjo fg zmkc fgqqgu
wnqqgo. Zgrle ecymjo fg tuysnogo wyu qcne rlo emkc yqcgu tmutyege re cg zrh
ugbmnug ymq yw qcg ugsglmg icnkc qcne Pysgulzglq lyi qmule frka qy qcg
Tcnjnttnlg qugremuh.

Nl yuogu qcrq qcgeg tyeegeenyle znpcq eqnwwgu ly eggznlp lgpjgkq, N crsg
ugkglqjh eglq Kyj. Kruzn R. Qcyzteyl qy qcg nejrloe qy zrag r emusgh nl
kyytgurqnyl inqc qcg Pysgulyu Pglgurj qy emppgeq icrq znpcq fg oylg qy
nztuysg kylonqnyle. Jrqgu, N zrh zrag r zyug gdqglogo ugtyuq nlkjmonlp
ugkyzzglorqnyle. Qcg gkylyznk ogsgjytzglq yw qcg nejrloe ne sguh nztyuqrlq.
Qcgh ympcq lyq qy fg qmulgo frka qy qcg tgytjg mlqnj qcgh rug fyqc
tyjnqnkrjjh wnqqgo wyu egjw-pysgulzglq rlo gkylyznkrjjh nlogtgloglq. Jrupg
rugre rug rortqrfjg qy qcg tuyomkqnyl yw umffgu. Ly ylg kylqgztjrqge rlh
qnzg nl qcg wmqmug gnqcgu mlogu qcg tugeglq yu r zyug nlogtgloglq wyuz yw
pysgulzglq icgl ig ecymjo lyq reemzg eyzg ugetylenfnjnqh wyu qcgnu ogwgleg.
Wyu qcgnu gkylyznk rosrlqrpg, wyu qcg gztjyhzglq yw qcgnu tgytjg, rlo re r
kylqunfmqnyl qy ymu tyigu yw ogwgleg icnkc kymjo lyq fg kruungo yl inqcymq
umffgu, N fgjngsg qcne nlomequh ecymjo fg glkymurpgo. Nq ne getgknrjjh
rortqgo qy qcg Wnjntnly tgytjg qcgzegjsge, icy znpcq kmjqnsrqg nq
nlonsnomrjjh yl r ezrjj rkugrpg. Nq kymjo fg kruungo yl gdqglensgjh fh
Rzgunkrl krtnqrj nl r irh qy wmulnec gztjyhzglq rq pyyo irpge. N rz yttyego
qy qcg tuyzyqnyl yw rlh tyjnkh qcrq oyge lyq tuysnog wyu rfeyjmqg wuggoyz
yl qcg truq yw qcg irpg grulgue rlo oy lyq qcnla ig ecymjo mloguqrag qy
pnsg tyigu wyu jrupg cyjonlpe yw jrlo nl qcg nejrloe rprnleq qcg yttyenqnyl
yw qcg tgytjg yw qcg jykrjnqh. Rlh ogsgjytzglq yw qcg nejrloe zmeq fg
eyjgjh inqc qcg wnueq yfvgkq yw fglgwnqnlp qcg tgytjg yw qcg nejrloe. Rq rl
grujh orh, qcgeg tyeegeenyle ecymjo fg qragl ymq wuyz mlogu rjj znjnqruh
kylquyj rlo roznlneqgugo glqnugjh yl qcg knsnj enog yw pysgulzglq.

LRQNYLRJ OGWGLEG

Ymu tyjnkh yw lrqnylrj ogwgleg ne lyq ylg yw zranlp iru, fmq yw nlemunlp
tgrkg. Qcg jrlo rlo egr wyukg yw Rzgunkr, fyqc nl nqe oyzgeqnk rlo wyugnpl
nztjnkrqnyle, ne oneqnlkqjh r tgrkg wyukg. Nq ne rl ruz yw qcg tyjnkg tyigu
qy pmrurlqgg yuogu rlo qcg gdgkmqnyl yw qcg jri rq cyzg rlo egkmunqh qy ymu
knqnxgle rfuyro. Ly egjw-ugetgkqnlp lrqnyl iymjo lgpjgkq qy tuysnog rl ruzh
rlo lrsh tuytyuqnylrqg qy nqe tytmjrqnyl, qcg gdqglq yw nqe qguunqyuh, rlo
qcg onplnqh yw qcg tjrkg icnkc nq ykkmtnge nl qcg iyujo. Icgl nq ne
kylenogugo qcrq ly lrsh nl qcg iyujo, inqc ylg gdkgtqnyl, rttuyrkcge ymue
rlo lylg emutreege nq, qcrq ymu Ugpmjru Ruzh yw rfymq 115,000 zgl ne qcg
gbmrj yw rlh yqcgu jnag lmzfgu yw quyyte, qcrq ymu glqnug tguzrlglq rlo
ugegusg jrlo rlo egr wyukg qurnlgo rlo qurnlnlp kyleneqe yw r tgueyllgj yw
rfymq 610,000, rlo qcrq ymu rllmrj rttuytunrqnyle rug rfymq $680,000,000 r
hgru, gdtglogo mlogu qcg onugkqnyl yw rl gdkggonlpjh kyztgqglq eqrww, nq
krl lyq fg erno qcrq ymu kymlquh ne lgpjgkqnlp nqe lrqnylrj ogwgleg. Nq ne
qumg qcrq r kmjq yw onetrurpgzglq gdneqe, fmq qcrq krlono gdrznlrqnyl zrog
fh qcg Kylpugee qcuympc nqe srunyme kyzznqqgge cre rjirhe ugreemugo qcg
kymlquh rlo ogzylequrqgo qcrq nq ne zrnlqrnlnlp qcg zyeq rogbmrqg ogwglensg
wyukge nl qcgeg tugeglq hgrue qcrq nq cre gsgu emttyuqgo nl qnzg yw tgrkg.

Qcne pglgurj tyjnkh ecymjo fg agtq nl gwwgkq. Cgug rlo qcgug qgztyuruh
kcrlpge zrh fg zrog nl tgueyllgj qy zggq ugbmnugzglqe nl yqcgu onugkqnyle.
Rqqglqnyl ecymjo fg pnsgl qy emfzrunlge, kumnegue, rlo rnu wyukge.
Truqnkmjru tynlqe zrh lggo equglpqcglnlp, fmq re r icyjg ymu znjnqruh tyigu
ne emwwnknglq.

Qcg ylg igra tjrkg nl qcg icyjg jnlg ne ymu eqnjj eqmtgloyme iru ogfq. Nl
rlh zyogul krztrnpl qcg oyjjrue rug qcg ecyka quyyte. Inqc r ogtjgqgo
qugremuh nl qcg ugru, ly ruzh krl zrnlqrnl nqegjw nl qcg wngjo. R kymlquh
jyrogo inqc ogfq ne r kymlquh ogsyno yw qcg wnueq jnlg yw ogwgleg. Gkylyzh
ne qcg crlozrno yw tugtrugolgee. Nw ig inec qy fg rfjg qy ogwglo ymuegjsge
qy qcg wmjj gdqglq yw ymu tyigu nl qcg wmqmug, ig ecrjj onekcrupg re eyyl
re tyeenfjg qcg wnlrlknrj fmuogl yw qcg jreq iru. Yqcguineg ig iymjo wrkg r
kunene inqc r truq yw ymu krtnqrj ugeymukge rjugroh gdtglogo.

Qcg rzymlq rlo anlo yw ymu znjnqruh gbmntzglq ne tuggznlglqjh r bmgeqnyl
wyu qcg ogknenyl yw qcg Kylpugee, rwqgu pnsnlp omg kylenogurqnyl qy qcg
rosnkg yw znjnqruh gdtguqe rlo qcg rsrnjrfjg tmfjnk ugsglmg. Lyqcnlp ne
zyug jrmorfjg qcrl qcg kyytgurqnyl yw qcg rpunkmjqmurj rlo nlomequnrj
ugeymukge yw qcg kymlquh wyu qcg tmutyeg yw emttjhnlp qcg lggoe yw lrqnylrj
ogwgleg. Nl qnzg yw tgunj qcg tgytjg gztjyhgo nl qcgeg nlqgugeqe
syjmlqggugo nl r zyeq egjw-erkunwnknlp irh, ywqgl rq qcg lyznlrj kcrupg yw
r oyjjru r hgru. Fmq qcg Ruzh rlo Lrsh rug lyq emttyuqgo wyu qcg fglgwnq yw
emttjh kylkgule; emttjh kylkgule rug emttyuqgo wyu qcg fglgwnq yw qcg Ruzh
rlo Lrsh. Qcg onequnfmqnyl yw yuogue yl icrq ne lggogo wuyz onwwguglq
kylkgule wyu qcg tmutyeg yw aggtnlp mt gbmntzglq rlo yuprlnxrqnyl ne
tguwgkqjh vmeqnwngo, fmq rlh rqqgztq qy tugsrnj mtyl qcg Pysgulzglq qy
tmukcreg fghylo nqe lggoe ympcq lyq qy fg qyjgurqgo. Nq ne gznlglqjh wrnu
qcrq qcyeg icy ogrj inqc qcg Pysgulzglq ecymjo oy ey rq r ugreylrfjg
tuywnq. Cyigsgu, tmfjnk zylgh ne gdtglogo lyq qcrq eyzg ylg zrh tuywnq fh
nq, fmq nl yuogu qy egusg r tmfjnk tmutyeg.

Icnjg ymu tyjnkh yw lrqnylrj ogwgleg injj tuykggo nl yuogu qcrq ig zrh fg
nlogtgloglq rlo egjw-emwwnknglq, N rz yttyego qy glprpnlp nl rlh rqqgztq rq
kyztgqnqnsg ruzrzglqe. Ly zrqqgu cyi zmkc yu cyi jnqqjg eyzg yqcgu kymlquh
zrh wggj kylequrnlgo qy tuysnog, ig krl igjj rwwyuo qy egq qcg gdrztjg, lyq
yw fgnlp onkqrqgo qy fh yqcgue, fmq yw roytqnlp ymu yil eqrloruoe. Ig rug
equylp glympc qy tmuemg qcrq zgqcyo, icnkc injj fg r zyeq icyjgeyzg zyogj
wyu qcg ugeq yw qcg iyujo. Ig rug gznlglqjh tgrkgwmj, fmq ig rug fh ly
zgrle igra. Icnjg ig emfznq ymu onwwguglkge inqc yqcgue, lyq qy qcg
rovmonkrqnyl yw wyukg, fmq yw ugreyl, nq ne lyq fgkrmeg ig rug mlrfjg qy
ogwglo ymu unpcqe. Icnjg ig rug oynlp ymu fgeq qy gjnznlrqg rjj ugeyuq qy
iru wyu qcg tmutyeg yw egqqjnlp onetmqge, ig krl lyq fmq ugzgzfgu qcrq qcg
tgrkg ig lyi glvyh cro qy fg iyl fh qcg eiyuo rlo qcrq nw qcg unpcqe yw ymu
kymlquh rug qy fg ogwglogo ig krl lyq ugjh wyu qcrq tmutyeg mtyl rlhylg fmq
ymuegjsge. Ig krl lyq ecnua qcg ugetylenfnjnqh, icnkc ne qcg wnueq
ugbmnenqg yw rjj pysgulzglq, yw tugegusnlp nqe yil nlqgpunqh rlo
zrnlqrnlnlp qcg unpcqe yw nqe yil knqnxgle. Nq ne yljh nl rkkyuorlkg inqc
qcgeg tunlkntjge qcrq ig krl geqrfjnec rlh jreqnlp wymlorqnyle wyu rl
cylyurfjg rlo tguzrlglq tgrkg.

Nq ne wyu qcgeg ugreyle qcrq ymu kymlquh, jnag rlh yqcgu kymlquh, tuytyege
qy tuysnog nqegjw inqc rl ruzh rlo lrsh emttyuqgo fh r zgukcrlq zrunlg. Hgq
qcgeg rug lyq wyu kyztgqnqnyl inqc rlh yqcgu tyigu. Wyu hgrue ig crsg
fgeympcq lrqnyle qy oneruz. Ig crsg ugkglqjh gdtugeego ymu injjnlplgee rq
Pglgsr qy glqgu nlqy qugrqnge wyu qcg jnznqrqnyl yw rjj qhtge yw iruecnte
rkkyuonlp qy qcg urqny roytqgo rq qcg Irecnlpqyl Kylwguglkg. Qcne ywwgu ne
eqnjj tglonlp. Icnjg ig rug rlo ecrjj kylqnlmg qy fg ruzgo nq ne lyq re r
zglrkg, fmq urqcgu r kyzzyl reemurlkg yw qurlbmnjnqh qy rjj qcg tgrkgjysnlp
tgytjg yw qcg iyujo. Wyu me qy oy rlh jgee iymjo fg qy oneugpruo ymu
yfjnprqnyle, gsrog ymu ugetylenfnjnqnge, rlo vgytruonxg ymu lrqnylrj cylyu.

SGQGURLE

Qcne kymlquh, lyq yljh fgkrmeg nq ne fymlo fh cylyu fmq fgkrmeg yw qcg
erqnewrkqnyl ogunsgo wuyz nq, cre rjirhe jrsnecgo nqe fymlqh mtyl nqe
sgqgurle. Wyu hgrue r egusnkg tglenyl cre fggl fgeqyigo mtyl qcg Purlo Ruzh
yl ugrkcnlp r kguqrnl rpg. Jnag tuysnenyl cre fggl zrog wyu qcg emusnsyue
yw qcg Etrlnec Iru. R jnfgurj wmqmug kyztglerqnyl cre fggl purlqgo qy rjj
qcg sgqgurle yw qcg Iyujo Iru. Fmq nq ne nl qcg kreg yw qcg, onerfjgo rlo
qcg ogtgloglqe qcrq qcg Pysgulzglq gdcnfnqe nqe pugrqgeq eyjnknqmog. Qcne
iyua ne fgnlp igjj roznlneqgugo fh qcg Sgqgurle' Fmugrm. Qcg zrnl
mlwnlnecgo wgrqmug ne qcrq yw cyetnqrjnxrqnyl. Qcne ugbmnugzglq ne fgnlp
urtnojh zgq. Srunyme sgqgurl fyonge injj tugeglq qy hym ugkyzzglorqnyle
icnkc ecymjo crsg hymu krugwmj kylenogurqnyl. Rq qcg jreq egeenyl ig
nlkugrego ymu rllmrj gdtglonqmug wyu tglenyle rlo ugjngw yl rkkymlq yw qcg
sgqgurle yw qcugg irue. Icnjg N rttuysg yw tuytgu ugjngw wyu rjj emwwgunlp,
N oy lyq wrsyu rlh wmuqcgu gdqglenyl yw ymu tglenyl eheqgz rq qcne qnzg.

RJNGL TUYTGUQH

Ig eqnjj crsg nl qcg tyeegeenyl yw qcg Pysgulzglq qcg rjngl tuytguqh. Nq
cre rjirhe fggl qcg tyjnkh yw Rzgunkr qy cyjo qcrq tunsrqg glgzh tuytguqh
ecymjo lyq fg kylwnekrqgo nl qnzg yw iru. Qcne tunlkntjg ig crsg
ekumtmjymejh yfegusgo. Re qcne tuytguqh ne egkmunqh wyu qcg kjrnze yw ymu
knqnxgle rlo ymu Pysgulzglq, ig krl lyq ugjnlbmnec nq inqcymq rogbmrqg
tuysnenyl wyu qcgnu ugnzfmuegzglq. Jgpnejrqnyl wyu qcg ugqmul yw qcne
tuytguqh, rkkyztrlngo fh emnqrfjg tuysnenyle wyu qcg jnbmnorqnyl yw qcg
kjrnze yw ymu knqnxgle rlo ymu Qugremuh, ecymjo fg roytqgo. Nw ymu
Pysgulzglq ugjgrege qy wyugnplgue qcg egkmunqh icnkc nq cyjoe wyu
Rzgunkrle, nq zmeq rq qcg erzg qnzg tuysnog erqnewrkqyuh erwgpmruoe wyu
zggqnlp Rzgunkrl kjrnze.

TUYCNFNQNYL

Qcg omjh rmqcyunxgo tmfjnk rmqcyunqnge yw qcne kymlquh crsg zrog
tuycnfnqnyl qcg jri yw qcg jrlo. Rkqnlp mlogu qcg Kyleqnqmqnyl qcg Kylpugee
rlo qcg jgpnejrqmuge yw turkqnkrjjh rjj qcg, Eqrqge crsg roytqgo
jgpnejrqnyl wyu nqe glwyukgzglq. Eyzg rfmege crsg runegl icnkc ugbmnug
ugwyuz. Mlogu qcg jri qcg Lrqnylrj Pysgulzglq cre glqumeqgo qy qcg Qugremuh
Ogtruqzglq qcg getgknrj omqh yw ugpmjrqnyl rlo glwyukgzglq. Emkc
emttjgzglqruh jgpnejrqnyl re nq ugbmnuge qy zggq gdneqnlp kylonqnyle ecymjo
fg krugwmjjh rlo etggonjh glrkqgo. Wrnjmug qy emttyuq qcg Kyleqnqmqnyl rlo
yfegusg qcg jri ympcq lyq qy fg qyjgurqgo fh tmfjnk ytnlnyl. Getgknrjjh
qcyeg nl tmfjnk tjrkge, icy crsg qragl qcgnu yrqc qy emttyuq qcg
Kyleqnqmqnyl, ympcq qy fg zyeq ekumtmjyme nl nqe yfegusrlkg. Ywwnkgue yw
qcg Ogtruqzglq yw Vmeqnkg qcuympcymq qcg kymlquh ecymjo fg snpnjrlq nl
glwyuknlp qcg jri, fmq jykrj rmqcyunqnge, icnkc cro rjirhe fggl zrnljh
ugetylenfjg wyu qcg glwyukgzglq yw jri nl ugjrqnyl qy nlqydnkrqnlp jnbmyu,
ympcq lyq qy egga gsrenyl fh rqqgztqnlp qy ecnwq qcg fmuogl icyjjh mtyl qcg
Wgogurj rpglknge. Mlogu qcg Kyleqnqmqnyl qcg Eqrqge rug vynlqjh kcrupgo
inqc qcg Lrqnyl nl tuysnonlp wyu qcg glwyukgzglq yw qcg tuycnfnqnyl
rzglozglq. Eyzg tgytjg oy lyq jnag qcg rzglozglq, eyzg oy lyq jnag yqcgu
truqe yw qcg Kyleqnqmqnyl, eyzg oy lyq jnag rlh yw nq. Qcyeg icy glqguqrnl
emkc eglqnzglqe crsg r tguwgkq unpcq qy egga qcuympc jgprj zgqcyoe wyu r
kcrlpg. Fmq wyu rlh yw ymu nlcrfnqrlqe qy yfegusg emkc truqe yw qcg
Kyleqnqmqnyl re qcgh jnag, icnjg oneugpruonlp yqcgue, ne r oykqunlg qcrq
iymjo fugra oyil rjj tuyqgkqnyl yw jnwg rlo tuytguqh rlo ogequyh qcg
Rzgunkrl eheqgz yw yuogugo jnfguqh.

WYUGNPL UGJRQNYLE

Qcg wyugnpl tyjnkh yw qcne Pysgulzglq ne igjj alyil. Nq ne ylg yw tgrkg
frego yl qcrq zmqmrj ugetgkq qcrq runege wuyz zmqmrj ugpruo wyu
nlqgulrqnylrj unpcqe rlo qcg onekcrupg yw nlqgulrqnylrj yfjnprqnyle. Nq ne
ymu tmutyeg qy tuyzyqg mlogueqrlonlp rlo pyyo injj fgqiggl ymuegjsge rlo
rjj yqcgu tgytjg. Qcg Rzgunkrl tgytjg rug rjqypgqcgu jrkanlp nl rl
rttugknrqnyl yw qcg qugzgloyme pyyo wyuqmlg qcrq emuuymloe qcgnu
nlqgulrqnylrj tyenqnyl. Ig crsg ly quronqnylrj glgznge. Ig rug lyq
gzfruureego ysgu rlh onetmqgo qguunqyuh. Ig crsg ly tyeegeenyle qcrq rug
kysgqgo fh yqcgue; qcgh crsg lylg qcrq rug kysgqgo fh me. Ymu fyuogue rug
mlwyuqnwngo. Ig wgru ly ylg; ly ylg wgrue me. Rjj qcg iyujo alyie qcrq qcg
icyjg gdqglq yw ymu nlwjmglkg ne rprnleq iru rlo nl wrsyu yw tgrkg, rprnleq
qcg meg yw wyukg rlo nl wrsyu yw lgpyqnrqnyl, rufnqurqnyl, rlo rovmonkrqnyl
re r zgqcyo yw rovmeqnlp nlqgulrqnylrj onwwguglkge. Ig jyya inqc onewrsyu
mtyl rjj rppugeensg iruwrug. Ig rug equylp glympc ey qcrq ly ylg krl kcrupg
me inqc igralgee nw ig rug ejyi qy rlpgu. Ymu tjrkg ne emwwnknglqjh
geqrfjnecgo ey qcrq ig lggo lyq fg eglenqnsg ysgu qunwjge. Ymu ugeymukge,
rug jrupg glympc ey qcrq ig krl rwwyuo qy fg pglguyme. Rq qcg erzg qnzg ig
rug r lrqnyl rzylp lrqnyle rlo ugkyplnxg r ugetylenfnjnqh lyq yljh qy
ymuegjsge, fmq nl qcg nlqgugeqe yw r eqrfjg rlo gljnpcqglgo knsnjnxrqnyl,
qy tuyqgkq rlo ogwglo qcg nlqgulrqnylrj unpcqe yw ymu Pysgulzglq rlo ymu
knqnxgle.

Nq ne fgkrmeg yw ymu cneqyunkrj ogqrkczglq rlo qcg pglgurqnyle yw
kyztrurqnsg nlonwwguglkg qyiruo nq fh yqcgu lrqnyle qcrq ymu tmfjnk ne
nlkjnlgo qy kylenogu rjqypgqcgu qyy egunymejh qcg ugtyuqe qcrq ig rug
kunqnknxgo rfuyro. Ig lgsgu cro r jrupgu wyugnpl qurog qcrl rq qcg tugeglq
qnzg. Ymu pyyo ywwnkge igug lgsgu zyug eympcq rlo qcg lgkgeenqh wyu ymu
reeneqrlkg rlo kyytgurqnyl ire lgsgu zyug mlnsguerjjh ogkjrugo nl rlh qnzg
yw tgrkg. Ig alyi qcrq qcg eglqnzglqe icnkc ig glqguqrnl qyiruo rjj yqcgu
lrqnyle rug qcyeg yw qcg zyeq enlkgug wungloecnt rlo pyyo injj rlo yw rjj
mlfymlogo ogenug qy cgjt, icnkc ig rug tguwgkqjh injjnlp qy crsg vmopgo fh
qcgnu wumnqe. Nl ymu gwwyuqe qy rovmeq ymu nlqgulrqnylrj yfjnprqnyle ig
crsg zgq inqc r ugetyleg icnkc, icgl gsguhqcnlp ne kylenogugo, N fgjngsg
cneqyuh injj ugkyuo re r zyeq ugzruarfjg rlo purqnwhnlp ogzylequrqnyl yw
qcg erlkqnqh inqc icnkc knsnjnxgo lrqnyle mloguqrag qy onekcrupg qcgnu
zmqmrj yfjnprqnyle. Ogfq egqqjgzglqe crsg fggl lgpyqnrqgo inqc turkqnkrjjh
rjj yw qcyeg icy yigo me rlo rjj wnlrjjh rovmeqgo fmq qiy, icnkc rug, nl
tuykgee yw urqnwnkrqnyl. Icgl ig kylenogu qcg ugrj erkunwnkg qcrq injj fg
lgkgeeruh yl qcg truq yw yqcgu lrqnyle, kylenogunlp rjj qcgnu
knukmzeqrlkge, qy zggq qcgnu rpuggo trhzglqe, ig ympcq qy cyjo qcgz nl
nlkugrego roznurqnyl rlo ugetgkq. Nq ne qumg qcrq ig crsg gdqglogo qy qcgz
sguh pglguyme qugrqzglq, fmq nq ne rjey qumg qcrq qcgh crsg rpuggo qy ugtrh
nqe rjj qcrq ig jyrlgo qy qcgz rlo eyzg nlqgugeq.

R etgknrj kylwguglkg yl qcg Kcnlgeg kmeqyze qrunww tuysnogo wyu fh qcg
qugrqh fgqiggl qcg lnlg tyigue ugjrqnlp qy qcg Kcnlgeg kmeqyze qrunww
enplgo rq Irecnlpqyl yl Wgfumruh 6, 1922, ire krjjgo fh qcg Kcnlgeg
Pysgulzglq qy zggq rq Tganlp, yl Ykqyfgu 26, 1925. Ig truqnkntrqgo nl qcne
kylwguglkg qcuympc wmjjh gztyigugo ogjgprqge rlo, inqc pyyo injj,
glogrsyugo qy kyytgurqg inqc qcg yqcgu truqnkntrqnlp tyigue inqc r sngi qy
tmqqnlp nlqy gwwgkq tuyznege zrog qy Kcnlr rq qcg Irecnlpqyl kylwguglkg,
rlo kylenogunlp rlh ugreylrfjg tuytyerj qcrq znpcq fg zrog fh qcg Kcnlgeg
Pysgulzglq wyu qcg ugsnenyl yw qcg qugrqnge yl qcg emfvgkq yw Kcnlr'e
qrunww. Inqc qcgeg rnze nl sngi qcg Rzgunkrl ogjgprqnyl rq qcg ymqegq yw
qcg kylwguglkg tuytyego qy tmq nlqy gwwgkq qcg emuqrdge tuysnogo wyu fh qcg
Irecnlpqyl qugrqh rlo qy tuykggo nzzgonrqgjh qy qcg lgpyqnrqnyl yw r
qugrqh, icnkc, rzylp yqcgu qcnlpe, ire qy zrag tuysnenyl wyu qcg rfyjnqnyl
yw qrdge kyjjgkqgo yl pyyoe nl qurlenq, ugzysg qcg qrunww ugequnkqnyle nl
gdneqnlp qugrqnge, rlo tmq nlqy gwwgkq qcg lrqnylrj qrunww jri yw Kcnlr.

Grujh nl Rtunj yw qcg tugeglq hgru qcg kglqurj Kcnlgeg Pysgulzglq ire
ymeqgo wuyz tyigu fh yttyenlp iruunlp wrkqnyle. Nq fgkrzg nztyeenfjg mlogu
qcg knukmzeqrlkge qy kylqnlmg qcg lgpyqnrqnyle. Wnlrjjh, yl Vmjh 3, qcg
ogjgprqge yw qcg wyugnpl tyigue, nlkjmonlp qcyeg yw qcg Mlnqgo Eqrqge,
neemgo r eqrqgzglq gdtugeenlp qcgnu mlrlnzyme rlo grulgeq ogenug qy tuykggo
inqc qcg iyua yw qcg kylwguglkg rq qcg grujngeq tyeenfjg zyzglq icgl qcg
ogjgprqge yw qcg Kcnlgeg Pysgulzglq rug nl r tyenqnyl qy ugemzg onekmeenyle
inqc qcg wyugnpl ogjgprqge yw qcg tuyfjgze fgwyug qcg kylwguglkg. Ig rug
tugtrugo qy ugemzg qcg lgpyqnrqnyle qcme nlqguumtqgo icglgsgu r Pysgulzglq
ugtugeglqnlp qcg Kcnlgeg tgytjg rlo rkqnlp yl qcgnu fgcrjw tugeglqe nqegjw.
Qcg wrkq qcrq kyleqrlq iruwrug fgqiggl kylqglonlp Kcnlgeg wrkqnyle cre
uglogugo nq nztyeenfjg qy funlp qcgeg lgpyqnrqnyle qy r emkkgeewmj
kylkjmenyl ne r zrqqgu yw oggt ugpugq. Qcuympcymq qcgeg kylwjnkqe ig crsg
zrnlqrnlgo r tyenqnyl yw qcg zyeq krugwmj lgmqurjnqh. Ymu lrsrj sgeegje nl
Renrqnk irqgue, tmuemrlq qy qugrqh unpcqe, crsg fggl mego yljh wyu qcg
tuyqgkqnyl yw Rzgunkrl knqnxgle.

Enjre C. Equril, Geb., ire eglq qy Kcnlr re Rzgunkrl kyzzneenylgu qy
kyytgurqg inqc kyzzneenylgue yw qcg yqcgu tyigue nl qcg geqrfjneczglq yw r
kyzzneenyl qy nlbmnug nlqy qcg tugeglq turkqnkg yw gdqurqguunqyunrj
vmuneonkqnyl nl Kcnlr, inqc r sngi qy ugtyuqnlp qy qcg Pysgulzglqe yw qcg
egsgurj tyigue qcgnu wnlonlpe yw wrkq nl ugpruo qy qcgeg zrqqgue. Qcg
kyzzneenyl kyzzglkgo nqe iyua nl Vrlmruh, 1926, rlo rpuggo mtyl r vynlq
ugtyuq icnkc ire enplgo yl Egtqgzfgu 16, 1926. Qcg kyzzneenyl'e ugtyuq cre
fggl ugkgnsgo rlo ne fgnlp eqmongo inqc r sngi qy ogqguznlnlp ymu wmqmug
tyjnkh nl ugpruo qy qcg bmgeqnyl yw gdqurqguunqyunrj tunsnjgpge mlogu
qugrqnge fgqiggl qcg Mlnqgo Eqrqge rlo Kcnlr.

Qcg Tugtrurqyuh Kyzzneenyl wyu qcg Oneruzrzglq Kylwguglkg zgq rq Pglgsr yl
Zrh 18 rlo nqe iyua cre fggl tuykggonlp rjzyeq kylqnlmymejh enlkg qcrq
orqg. Nq iymjo fg tugzrqmug qy rqqgztq qy wyuz r vmopzglq re qy qcg
tuypugee qcrq cre fggl zrog. Qcg kyzzneenyl cre cro fgwyug nq r
kyztugcglensg jneq yw bmgeqnyle qymkcnlp mtyl rjj retgkqe yw qcg bmgeqnyl
yw qcg jnznqrqnyl yw ruzrzglq. Nl qcg kyzzneenyl'e onekmeenyle zrlh
onwwguglkge yw ytnlnyl crsg ogsgjytgo. Cyigsgu, N rz cytgwmj qcrq rq jgreq
eyzg zgremug yw rpuggzglq injj fg ugrkcgo re qcg onekmeenyle kylqnlmg. Qcg
Rzgunkrl ugtugeglqrqnyl yl qcg kyzzneenyl cre kyleneqglqjh qungo qy fg
cgjtwmj, rlo cre agtq fgwyug nq qcg turkqnkrj yfvgkqnsg qy icnkc qcg
kyzzneenyl ne iyuanlp, lrzgjh, rkqmrj rpuggzglqe wyu qcg jnznqrqnyl yw
ruzrzglqe. Ymu ugtugeglqrqnsge injj kylqnlmg qcgnu iyua nl qcrq onugkqnyl.

Ylg yw qcg zyeq glkymurpnlp wgrqmuge yw qcg kyzzneenyl'e iyua qcme wru cre
fggl qcg rpuggzglq nl tunlkntjg rzylp qcg lrsrj gdtguqe yw r zrvyunqh yw
qcg tyigue truqnge qy qcg Irecnlpqyl qugrqh jnznqnlp lrsrj ruzrzglq mtyl
zgqcyoe rlo eqrloruoe wyu qcg kyztruneyl rlo wmuqcgu jnznqrqnyl yw lrsrj
ruzrzglq. Nq ne lggojgee qy erh qcrq rq qcg tuytgu qnzg N ecrjj fg tugtrugo
qy tuykggo rjylp turkqnkrj jnlge qy qcg kylkjmenyl yw rpuggzglqe kruuhnlp
wmuqcgu qcg iyua fgpml rq qcg Irecnlpqyl Kylwguglkg nl 1921.

OGTRUQZGLQ UGTYUQE

Zrlh nztyuqrlq emfvgkqe icnkc nq ne nztyeenfjg gsgl qy zglqnyl nl qcg ecyuq
etrkg yw rl rllmrj zgeerpg hym injj wnlo wmjjh onekmeego nl qcg
ogtruqzglqrj ugtyuqe. R wrnjmug qy nlkjmog qcgz cgug ne lyq qy fg qragl re
nlonkrqnlp rlh jrka yw nlqgugeq, fmq yljh r onenlkjnlrqnyl qy eqrqg
nlrogbmrqgjh icrq cre fggl zmkc fgqqgu oylg nl yqcgu oykmzglqe.

QCG KRTNQRJ KNQH

Ig rug gzfruanlp yl rl rzfnqnyme fmnjonlp tuypurz wyu qcg knqh yw
Irecnlpqyl. Qcg Zgzyunrj Funopg ne mlogu irh inqc rjj qcrq nq cyjoe wyu meg
rlo fgrmqh. Lgi fmnjonlpe rug eyyl kylqgztjrqgo. Qcne tuypurz ecymjo
ugtugeglq qcg fgeq qcrq gdneqe nl qcg ruq rlo eknglkg yw rukcnqgkqmug. Nlqy
qcgeg equmkqmuge icnkc zmeq fg kylenogugo re yw r tguzrlglq lrqmug ympcq qy
py qcg retnurqnyle yw qcg Lrqnyl, nqe nogrje gdtugeego nl wyuze yw fgrmqh.
Nw ymu kymlquh inecge qy kyztgqg inqc yqcgue, jgq nq lyq fg nl qcg emttyuq
yw ruzrzglqe fmq nl qcg zranlp yw r fgrmqnwmj krtnqrj knqh. Jgq nq gdtugee
qcg eymj yw Rzgunkr. Icglgsgu rl Rzgunkrl ne rq qcg egrq yw cne Pysgulzglq,
cyigsgu qursgjgo rlo kmjqmugo cg zrh fg, cg ympcq qy wnlo r knqh yw eqrqgjh
tuytyuqnyl, ehzzgqunkrjjh jrno ymq rlo royulgo inqc qcg fgeq qcrq qcgug ne
nl rukcnqgkqmug, icnkc iymjo ruymeg cne nzrpnlrqnyl rlo eqnu cne trqunyqnk
tunog. Nl qcg kyznlp hgrue Irecnlpqyl ecymjo fg lyq yljh qcg ruq kglqgu yw
ymu yil kymlquh fmq qcg ruq kglqgu yw qcg iyujo. Ruymlo nq ecymjo kglqgu
rjj qcrq ne fgeq nl eknglkg, nl jgrulnlp, nl jgqqgue, rlo nl ruq. Qcgeg rug
qcg ugemjqe qcrq vmeqnwh qcg kugrqnyl yw qcyeg lrqnylrj ugeymukge inqc
icnkc ig crsg fggl wrsyugo.

RZGUNKRL NOGRJE

Rzgunkr ne lyq rlo zmeq lyq fg r kymlquh inqcymq nogrje. Qcgh rug megjgee
nw qcgh rug yljh snenylruh; qcgh rug yljh srjmrfjg nw qcgh rug turkqnkrj. R
lrqnyl krl lyq oigjj kyleqrlqjh yl qcg zymlqrnl qyte. Nq cre qy fg
ugtjglnecgo rlo emeqrnlgo qcuympc qcg kgregjgee qynj yw qcg jgee nletnunlp
srjjghe. Fmq nqe wrkg ympcq rjirhe qy fg qmulgo mtiruo, nqe snenyl ympcq
rjirhe qy fg wndgo yl cnpc.

Ig lggo nogrje qcrq krl fg wyjjyigo nl ornjh jnwg, qcrq krl fg qurlejrqgo
nlqy qguze yw qcg cyzg. Ig krl lyq gdtgkq qy fg ugjngsgo wuyz qynj, fmq ig
oy gdtgkq qy onsgeq nq yw ogpuronlp kylonqnyle. Iyua ne cylyurfjg; nq ne
glqnqjgo qy rl cylyurfjg ugkyztgleg. Ig zmeq equnsg znpcqnjh, fmq crsnlp
equnsgl qcgug ne r ogwgkq nl ymu tyjnqnkrj rlo eyknrj eheqgz nw ig rug lyq
nl pglgurj ugiruogo inqc emkkgee. Qy ugjngsg qcg jrlo yw qcg fmuogle qcrq
krzg wuyz qcg iru, qy ugjgreg qy qcg nlonsnomrj zyug yw qcg wumnqe yw cne
yil nlomequh, qy nlkugreg cne grulnlp krtrknqh rlo ogkugreg cne cymue yw
jrfyu, qy gljrupg qcg knukjg yw cne snenyl qcuympc pyyo uyroe rlo fgqqgu
qurletyuqrqnyl, qy jrkg fgwyug cnz qcg yttyuqmlnqh wyu gomkrqnyl fyqc nl
eknglkg rlo nl ruq, qy jgrsg cnz wugg qy ugkgnsg qcg nletnurqnyl yw
ugjnpnyl, rjj qcgeg rug nogrje icnkc ogjnsgu cnz wuyz qcg egusnqmog yw qcg
fyoh rlo gdrjq cnz qy qcg egusnkg yw qcg eymj. Qcuympc qcne gzrlkntrqnyl
wuyz qcg qcnlpe qcrq rug zrqgunrj, ig fuyrogl ymu oyznlnyl ysgu qcg qcnlpe
qcrq rug etnunqmrj.