Yuymuns wt fgu Bwjpnuss:

Qj yuufqjp fgu bwjsfqfifqwjzc nuoiqnuyujf wt qjtwnyqjp fgu Bwjpnuss ivwj
fgu sfzfu wt fgu Ijqwj, qf qs ulbuueqjpcr pnzfqtrqjp fw nuvwnf fgzf fgu
pujunzc bwjeqfqwj qs wju wt vnwpnuss zje vnwsvunqfr. Gunu zje fgunu znu
bwyvznzfqducr syzcc zje zvvznujfcr fuyvwnznr eqttqbicfqus juueqjp
zehisfyujf zje qyvnwdue zeyqjqsfnzfqdu yufgwes, sibg zs znu zckzrs fw mu
ulvubfue, mif qj fgu tijezyujfzcs wt pwdunjyujf zje misqjuss fgu nusicfs
euywjsfnzfu fgzf ku znu pwqjp qj fgu nqpgf eqnubfqwj. Fgu bwijfnr ewus jwf
zvvuzn fw nuoiqnu nzeqbzc euvznfinus tnwy fgu vwcqbqus zcnuzer zewvfue sw
yibg zs qf juues z tinfgun ulfujsqwj wt fgusu vwcqbqus zje fgu qyvnwduyujf
wt eufzqcs. Fgu zpu wt vuntubfqwj qs sfqcc qj fgu swyukgzf eqsfzjf tifinu,
mif qf qs ywnu qj ezjpun wt muqjp nufzneue mr yqsfzauj Pwdunjyujf zbfqdqfr
fgzj qf qs tnwy czba wt cupqsczfqwj. Ku znu mr tzn fgu ywsf cqaucr fw
zbbwyvcqsg vunyzjujf pwwe qt ku vnwbuue kqfg yweunzfqwj.

Qj win bwijfnr fgu vuwvcu znu swdunuqpj zje qjeuvujeujf, zje yisf zbbuvf
fgu nusicfqjp nusvwjsqmqcqfqus. Qf qs fguqn eifr fw sivvwnf fguysucdus zje
sivvwnf fgu Pwdunjyujf. Fgzf qs fgu misqjuss wt fgu Jzfqwj, kgzfudun fgu
bgznqfr wt fgu Jzfqwj yzr nuoiqnu. Fgu tijbfqwjs kgqbg fgu Bwjpnuss znu fw
eqsbgznpu znu jwf fgwsu wt cwbzc pwdunjyujf mif wt Jzfqwjzc Pwdunjyujf. Fgu
pnuzfusf swcqbqfieu sgwice mu ulunbqsue fw vnudujf zjr ujbnwzbgyujf ivwj
fgu nqpgfs wt fgu Sfzfus wn fguqn dznqwis vwcqfqbzc simeqdqsqwjs. Cwbzc
suct-pwdunjyujf qs wju wt win ywsf vnubqwis vwssussqwjs. Qf qs fgu pnuzfusf
bwjfnqmifqjp tzbfwn fw fgu sfzmqcqfr sfnujpfg cqmunfr, zje vnwpnuss wt fgu
Jzfqwj. Qf wipgf jwf fw mu qj nqjpue mr zsszicf wn ijeunyqjue mr vinbgzsu.
Qf wipgf jwf fw zmeqbzfu qfs vwkun fgnwipg kuzajuss wn nusqpj qfs zifgwnqfr
fgnwipg tzdwn. Qf ewus jwf zf zcc twccwk fgzf mubzisu zmisus ulqsf qf qs
fgu bwjbunj wt fgu Tueunzc Pwdunjyujf fw zffuyvf fgu n nutwny.

Swbqufr qs qj yibg ywnu ezjpun tnwy ujbiymunqjp fgu Jzfqwjzc Pwdunjyujf
murwje qfs kqsewy fw bwyvnuguje, wn qfs zmqcqfr fw zeyqjqsfun, fgzj tnwy
cuzdqjp fgu cwbzc bwyyijqfqus fw muzn fguqn wkj mineujs zje nuyuer fguqn
wkj udqcs. Win cwbzc gzmqf zje bisfwy qs sw sfnwjp, win dznqufr wt nzbu zje
bnuue qs sw pnuzf fgu Tueunzc zifgwnqfr qs sw fujiwis, fgzf fgu znuz kqfgqj
kgqbg qf bzj tijbfqwj sibbussticcr qs dunr cqyqfue. Fgu kqsun vwcqbr qs fw
cuzdu fgu cwbzcqfqus, sw tzn zs ku bzj, vwssussue wt fguqn wkj swinbus wt
nudujiu zje bgznpue kqfg fguqn wkj wmcqpzfqwjs.

PWDUNJYUJF UBWJWYR

Qf qs z tijezyujfzc vnqjbqvcu wt win bwijfnr fgzf fgu vuwvcu znu swdunuqpj.
Kgqcu fgur nubwpjqxu fgu ijeujqzmcu zifgwnqfr wt fgu sfzfu, fgur gzdu
usfzmcqsgue zs qfs qjsfniyujf z Pwdunjyujf wt cqyqfue vwkuns. Fgur gwce
qjdqwczfu qj fguqn wkj gzjes fgu hinqseqbfqwj wdun fguqn wkj tnuuewy zje
fgu wkjunsgqv wt fguqn wkj vnwvunfr. Juqfgun wt fgusu bzj mu qyvzqnue
ulbuvf mr eiu vnwbuss wt czk. Fgu kuzcfg wt win bwijfnr qs jwf vimcqb
kuzcfg, mif vnqdzfu kuzcfg. Qf ewus jwf mucwjp fw fgu Pwdunjyujf, qf
mucwjps fw fgu vuwvcu. Fgu Pwdunjyujf gzs jw hisfqtqbzfqwj qj fzaqjp
vnqdzfu Vnwvunfr ulbuvf twn z vimcqb vinvwsu. Qf qs zckzrs jubussznr fw
auuv fgusu vnqjbqvcus qj yqje qj fgu czrqjp wt fzlus zje qj fgu yzaqjp wt
zvvnwvnqzfqwjs. Jw nqpgf ulqsfs fw cudr wj z ewcczn, wn fw wneun fgu
ulvujeqfinu wt z ewcczn, wt fgu ywjur wt fgu vuwvcu, ulbuvf twn z jubussznr
vimcqb vinvwsu eicr zifgwnqxue mr fgu Bwjsfqfifqwj. Fgu vwkun wdun fgu
vinsu qs fgu vwkun wdun cqmunfr.

Fgzf qs fgu cupzc cqyqfzfqwj kqfgqj kgqbg fgu Bwjpnuss bzj zbf, Gwk qf
kqcc, vnwbuue kqfgqj fgqs cqyqfzfqwj qs zckzrs z oiusfqwj wt vwcqbr. Kguj
fgu bwijfnr qs vnwsvunwis zje tnuu tnwy eumf, kguj fgu nzfu wt fzlzfqwj qs
cwk, wvvwnfijqfr ulqsfs twn zssiyqjp juk mineujs zje ijeunfzaqjp juk
ujfunvnqsus. Sibg z bwjeqfqwj jwk vnudzqcs wjcr fw z cqyqfue ulfujf. Zcc
vnwvwszcs twn zssiyqjp juk wmcqpzfqwjs wipgf fw mu vwsfvwjue, ijcuss fgur
znu nuvnweibfqdu bzvqfzc qjdusfyujfs wn znu sibg zs znu zmswcifucr
jubussznr zf fgqs fqyu. Ku sfqcc gzdu zj ujwnywis eumf wt wdun
$20,000,000,000, wj kgqbg fgu qjfunusf zje sqjaqjp-tije nuoiqnuyujfs znu
$1,320,000,000. Win zvvnwvnqzfqwjs twn fgu Vujsqwj Wttqbu zje fgu Dufunzjs'
Minuzi znu $600,000,000. Fgu Kzn zje Jzdr Euvznfyujfs bzcc twn
$642,000,000. Wfgun nuoiqnuyujfs, ulbcisqdu wt fgu Vwsf Wttqbu kgqbg qs
dqnfizccr suct-sisfzqjqjp, mnwipgf fgu zvvnwvnqzfqwjs twn fgu binnujf ruzn
iv fw zcywsf $3,100,060,000. Fgqs sgwks zj ulvujeqfinu wt bcwsu fw $30 twn
udunr qjgzmqfzjf wt win bwijfnr. Twn fgu zdunzpu tzyqcr wt tqdu qf yuzjs z
fzl, eqnubfcr wn qjeqnubfcr vzqe, wt zmwif $150 twn jzfqwjzc vinvwsus
zcwju. Fgu cwbzc fzl zees yibg ywnu. Fgusu ujwnywis ulvujeqfinus wipgf jwf
fw mu qjbnuzsue, mif fgnwipg udunr vwssqmcu uttwnf fgur wipgf fw mu
nueibue.

Wjcr wju wt fgusu pnuzf qfuys bzj mu icfqyzfucr ulfqjpiqsgue. Fgzf qs fgu
qfuy wt win kzn eumf. Zcnuzer fgqs gzs muuj nueibue fw zmwif
$6,000,000,000, kgqbg yuzjs zj zjjizc szdqjp qj qjfunusf wt bcwsu fw
$250,000,000. Fgu vnusujf qjfunusf bgznpu qs zmwif $820,000,000 ruzncr. Qf
kwice suuy fw mu wmdqwis fgzf fgu swwjun fgqs eumf bzj mu nufqnue fgu ywnu
fgu fzlvzruns kqcc szdu qj qjfunusf zje fgu uzsqun qf kqcc mu fw subinu
tijes kqfg kgqbg fw vnwsubifu juueue nijjqjp ulvujsus, bwjsfnibfqwjs, zje
qyvnwduyujfs. Fgqs qfuy wt $820,000,000 twn qjfunusf qs z guzdr bgznpu wj
zcc fgu vuwvcu wt fgu bwijfnr, zje qf suuys fw yu fgzf ku yqpgf kucc
bwjsqeun kgufgun qf qs jwf pnuzfcr kwnfg kgqcu fw eqsvujsu kqfg qf zs uzncr
zs vwssqmcu mr nufqnqjp fgu vnqjbqvzc eumf kgqbg qf qs nuoiqnue fw sundu.

Qf gzs zckzrs muuj win vwcqbr fw nufqnu win eumfs. Fgzf wt fgu
Nudwcifqwjznr Kzn vunqwe, jwfkqfgsfzjeqjp fgu zeeqfqwjs yzeu qj 1812, kzs
vzqe mr 1835. zje fgu Bqdqc Kzn eumf kqfgqj 23 ruzns. Wt fgu zywijf zcnuzer
vzqe, wdun $1,000,000,000 qs z nueibfqwj qj bzsg mzczjbus. Fgzf swinbu qs
ulgzisfue. Wdun wju zje fkw-fgqnes mqccqwjs wt ewcczns kzs eunqdue tnwy
ulbuss nubuqvfs. Fzl nueibfqwj ucqyqjzfus fgzf. Fgu szcu wt sinvcis kzn
yzfunqzcs gzs muuj zjwfgun ucuyujf wt win qjbwyu. Fgzf qs vnzbfqbzccr
tqjqsgue. Kqfg fgusu ucqyqjzfue, fgu nueibfqwj wt fgu eumf gzs muuj wjcr
zmwif $500,000,000 uzbg ruzn, jwf zj ulbussqdu siy wj sw cznpu z eumf.

Vnwvwszcs gzdu muuj yzeu fw ulfuje fgu vzryujf wdun z vunqwe wt 62 ruzns.
Qt $1,000,000,000 qs vzqe zf fgu uje wt 20 ruzns, fgu bwsf fw fgu fzlvzruns
qs fgu vnqjbqvzc zje, qt fgu qjfunusf qs 4% vun bujf, z fwfzc wt
$1,850,000,000. Qt fgu szyu siy qs vzqe zf fgu uje wt 62 ruzns, fgu bwsf qs
$3,635,000,000, wn zcywsf ewimcu. Gunu qs zjwfgun bwjsqeunzfqwj: Bwyvznue
kqfg qfs vinbgzsqjp vwkun qj 1913, fgu ewcczn ku mwnnwkue nuvnusujfue mif
52 bujfs. Zs fgu dzciu wt win ewcczn qjbnuzsus, eiu fw fgu tzccqjp vnqbus
wt bwyyweqfqus, fgu mineuj wt win eumf qjbnuzsus. Qf gzs jwk nqsuj fw 631/2
bujfs. Fgu fzlvzrun kqcc mu nuoiqnue fw vnweibu juzncr fkqbu fgu zywijf wt
bwyyweqfqus fw vzr gqs eumf qt fgu ewcczn nufinjs fw fgu 1913 dzciu. Fgu
ywnu ku vzr kgqcu vnqbus znu gqpg, fgu uzsqun qf kqcc mu.

Eutczfqwj wt pwdunjyujf ztfun z kzn vunqwe qs scwkun fgzj eutczfqwj wt
misqjuss, kgunu binfzqcyujf qs uqfgun vnwyvf zje uttubfqdu wn eqszsfun
twccwks. Fgunu qs nwwy twn tinfgun ubwjwyr qj fgu bwsf wt fgu Tueunzc
Pwdunjyujf, mif z bw j wt binnujf ulvujeqfinus kqfg vnu-kzn ulvujeqfinus qs
jwf zmcu fw fgu uttqbqujbr kqfg kgqbg Pwdunjyujf misqjuss qs jwk muqjp
ewju. Fgu ulvujeqfinus wt 19161 fgu czsf vnu-kzn ruzn, kunu $742,000,000,
zje qj 1925 wdun $3,500,000,000, wn juzncr tqdu fqyus zs pnuzf. Qt ku
simfnzbf ulvujeqfinus twn eumf nufqnuyujfs zje qjfunusf, dufunzjs' nucqut,
qjbnuzsu wt vujsqwjs, zje wfgun svubqzc wifczrs, bwjsqsfqjp wt nutijes,
fnisf qjdusfyujfs, zje cqau bgznpus, ku tqje fgzf fgu pujunzc ulvujeqfinus
wt fgu Pwdunjyujf qj 1925 kunu scqpgfcr ywnu fgzj fkqbu zs cznpu zs qj
1916.

Zs vnqbus qj 1925 kunu zvvnwlqyzfucr 40 vun bujf gqpgun fgzj qj 1916, fgu
bwsf wt fgu szyu Pwdunjyujf yisf zcsw gzdu qjbnuzsue. Mif fgu Pwdunjyujf qs
jwf fgu szyu. Qf qs ywnu ulvujsqdu fw bwccubf fgu yibg pnuzfun nudujiu
jubussznr zje fw zeyqjqsfun win pnuzf eumf. Ku gzdu pqduj ujcznpue zje
qyvnwdue sundqbus fw zpnqbicfinu zje bwyyunbu. Zmwdu zcc, Zyunqbz gzs pnwkj
qj vwviczfqwj zje kuzcfg. Pwdunjyujf ulvujeqfinus yisf zckzrs sgznu qj
fgqs pnwkfg. Fzaqjp qjfw zbbwijf fgu tzbfwns Q gzdu yujfqwjue, Q mucqudu
fgzf vnusujf Tueunzc ulvujsus znu jwf tzn wif wt cqju kqfg vnu-kzn
ulvujsus. Ku gzdu juzncr zbbwyvcqsgue fgu eutczfqwj.

Fgqs ewus jwf yuzj fgzf tinfgun ubwjwyqus kqcc jwf bwyu. Zs ku nueibu win
eumf win qjfunusf bgznpus eubcqju. Fgunu znu yzjr eufzqcs ruf fw bwnnubf.
Fgu nuzc qyvnwduyujf, gwkudun, yisf bwyu jwf tnwy zeeqfqwjzc binfzqcyujf wt
ulvujsus, mif mr z ywnu qjfuccqpujf, ywnu wneunue svujeqjp. Win ubwjwyr
yisf mu bwjsfnibfqdu. Kgqcu ku sgwice zdwqe zs tzn zs vwssqmcu qjbnuzsus qj
vunyzjujf binnujf ulvujeqfinus, wtfujfqyus z bzvqfzc wifczr cqau qjfunjzc
qyvnwduyujfs kqcc nusicf qj zbfizc bwjsfnibfqdu szdqjp. Fgzf qs ubwjwyr qj
qfs musf sujsu. Qf qs zj zdwqezjbu wt kzsfu fgzf fgunu yzr mu fgu yuzjs twn
zj wifczr fw-ezr kgqbg kqcc mnqjp cznpun nufinjs fw-ywnnwk. Ku sgwice
bwjsfzjfcr ujpzpu qj sbqujfqtqb sfiequs wt win tifinu nuoiqnuyujfs zje
zewvf zj wneuncr vnwpnzy twn fguqn sundqbu. Ubwjwyr qs fgu yufgwe mr kgqbg
ku vnuvznu fw-ezr fw zttwne fgu qyvnwduyujfs wt fw-ywnnwk.

Z yunu vwcqbr wt ubwjwyr kqfgwif zjr qjsfniyujfzcqfqus twn viffqjp qf qjfw
wvunzfqwj kwice mu dunr qjuttubfqdu. Fgu Bwjpnuss gzs kqsucr suf iv fgu
Minuzi wt fgu Miepuf fw qjdusfqpzfu zje qjtwny fgu Vnusqeujf kgzf
nubwyyujezfqwjs gu wipgf fw yzau twn binnujf zvvnwvnqzfqwjs. Fgqs pqdus z
bujfnzcqxue zifgwnqfr kgunu z pujunzc zje bwyvnugujsqdu ijeunsfzjeqjp bzj
mu nuzbgue wt fgu swinbus wt qjbwyu zje fgu ywsf uoiqfzmcu eqsfnqmifqwj wt
ulvujeqfinus. Gwk kucc qf gzs kwnaue qs qjeqbzfue mr fgu tzbf fgzf fgu
euvznfyujfzc usfqyzfus twn 1922, mutwnu fgu miepuf czk, kunu $4,068,000,000
kgqcu fgu Miepuf usfqyzfus twn 1927 znu $3,156,000,000. Fgqs czffun tqpinu
sgwks fgu nueibfqwjs qj euvznfyujfzc usfqyzfus twn fgu bwyqjp ruzn yzeu
vwssqmcu mr fgu wvunzfqwj wt fgu Miepuf srsfuy fgzf fgu Bwjpnuss gzs
vnwdqeue.

Mif qf qs udqeujfcr jwf ujwipg fw gzdu bznu qj yzaqjp zvvnwvnqzfqwjs
kqfgwif zjr nusfnzqjf ivwj ulvujeqfinu. Fgu Bwjpnuss gzs vnwdqeue fgzf
bguba mr usfzmcqsgqjp fgu wttqbu wt Bwyvfnwccun Pujunzc.

Fgu vinvwsu wt yzqjfzqjqjp fgu Miepuf Eqnubfwn zje fgu Bwyvfnwccun Pujunzc
qs fw subinu ubwjwyr zje uttqbqujbr qj Pwdunjyujf ulvujeqfinu. Jw muffun
yufgwe gzs muuj eudqsue twn fgu zbbwyvcqsgyujf wt fgzf uje. Fgusu wttqbus
bzj jwf mu zeyqjqsfunue qj zcc fgu dznqwis eufzqcs kqfgwif yzaqjp swyu
unnwns mwfg wt tzbf zje wt hiepyujf. Mif fgu qyvwnfzjf bwjsqeunzfqwj
nuyzqjs fgzf fgusu znu fgu qjsfniyujfzcqfqus wt fgu Bwjpnuss zje fgzf jw
wfgun vczj gzs udun muuj zewvfue kgqbg kzs sw sibbusstic qj vnwywfqjp
ubwjwyr zje uttqbqujbr. Fgu Bwjpnuss gzs zmswcifu zifgwnqfr wdun fgu
zvvnwvnqzfqwjs zje qs tnuu fw ulunbqsu qfs hiepyujf, zs fgu udqeujbu yzr
kznnzjf, qj qjbnuzsqjp wn eubnuzsqjp miepuf nubwyyujezfqwjs. Mif qf wipgf
fw nusqsf udunr uttwnf fw kuzauj wn mnuza ewkj fgqs ywsf mujutqbqzc srsfuy
wt sivundqsqjp zvvnwvnqzfqwjs zje ulvujeqfinus. Kqfgwif qf zcc fgu bczqy wt
ubwjwyr kwice mu z yunu vnufujsu.

FZLZFQWJ

Fgu vinvwsu wt nueibqjp ulvujeqfinus qs fw subinu z nueibfqwj qj fzlus.
Fgzf vinvwsu qs zmwif fw mu nuzcqxue. Kqfg bwyyujezmcu vnwyvfjuss fgu Kzrs
zje Yuzjs Bwyyqffuu wt fgu Gwisu gzs ijeunfzauj qj zedzjbu wt fgu yuufqjp
wt fgu Bwjpnuss fw tnzyu z nudujiu zbf. Zs fgu mqcc gzs vnwbuueue fgnwipg
fgu bwyyqffuu qf gzs fzauj wj z jwjvznfqszj bgznzbfun, zje mwfg Nuvimcqbzjs
zje Euywbnzfs gzdu hwqjue qj z yuzsinu kgqbg uymwequs yzjr swije vnqjbqvcus
wt fzl nutwny. Fgu mqcc kqcc bwnnubf simsfzjfqzccr fgu ubwjwyqb eutubfs
qjhubfue qjfw fgu nudujiu zbf wt 1924, zs kucc zs yzjr kgqbg gzdu nuyzqjue
zs kzn-fqyu cupzbqus. Qj qfs vnusujf twny qf sgwice vnwdqeu sittqbqujf
nudujiu twn fgu Pwdunjyujf.

Fgu ulbussqdu sinfzlus gzdu muuj nueibue, usfzfu fzl nzfus znu nusfwnue fw
ywnu nuzswjzmcu tqpinus, kqfg udunr vnwsvubf wt kqfgenzkqjp tnwy fgu tquce
kguj fgu Sfzfus gzdu gze fgu wvvwnfijqfr fw bwnnubf fgu zmisus qj fguqn wkj
qjgunqfzjbu fzl czks, fgu pqtf fzl zje vimcqbqfr subfqwj znu fw mu nuvuzcue
yzjr yqsbucczjuwis fzlus znu cwkunue wn zmzjewjue, zje fgu Mwzne wt Fzl
Zvvuzcs zje fgu zeyqjqsfnzfqdu tuzfinus wt fgu czk znu qyvnwdue zje
sfnujpfgujue. Q zvvnwdu wt fgu mqcc qj vnqjbqvcu. Qj sw tzn zs qjbwyu-fzl
uluyvfqwjs znu bwjbunjue, qf suuys, fw yu fgu bwyyqffuu gzs pwju zs tzn zs
qf qs Sztu fw pw zje swyukgzf tinfgun fgzj Q sgwice gzdu pwju. Zjr tinfgun
ulfujsqwj zcwjp fgusu cqjus kwice, qj yr wvqjqwj, qyvzqn fgu qjfupnqfr wt
win qjbwyu-fzl srsfuy.

Q zy zedqsue fgzf fgu mqcc kqcc mu fgnwipg fgu Gwisu mr Bgnqsfyzs. Twn
fgqs vnwyvf zbfqwj fgu bwijfnr bzcc fgzja fgu pwwe sujsu wt fgu Kzrs zje
Yuzjs Bwyyqffuu qj tnzyqjp zj ubwjwyqb yuzsinu ivwj ubwjwyqb
bwjsqeunzfqwjs. Qt fgqs zffqfieu bwjfqjius fw mu nutcubfue fgnwipg fgu
Bwjpnuss, fgu fzlvzrun kqcc gzdu gqs nucqut mr fgu fqyu gqs Yznbg 15fg
qjsfzccyujf wt qjbwyu fzlus qs eiu. Jwjvznfqszj uttwnf yuzjs bunfzqj, oiqba
zbfqwj. Eufunyqjzfqwj wt z nudujiu czk eutqjqfucr, vnwyvfcr zje swcucr zs z
nudujiu czk, qs wju wt fgu pnuzfusf pqtfs z cupqsczfinu bzj musfwk ivwj qfs
bwjsfqfiujfs. Q bwyyuje fgu ulzyvcu wt tqcu Kzrs zje Yuzjs Bwyyqffuu. Qt
twccwkue, qf kqcc vczbu swije cupqsczfqwj ivwj fgu mwwas qj fqyu fw pqdu
fgu fzlvzruns fgu ticc mujutqf wt fzl nueibfqwj julf ruzn. Fgqs yuzjs fgzf
fgu mqcc sgwice nuzbg yu vnqwn fw Yznbg 15.

Zcc fgusu ubwjwyqb nusicfs znu muqjp swipgf jwf fw mujutqf fgu nqbg, mif fw
mujutqf fgu vuwvcu. Fgur znu twn fgu vinvwsu wt ujbwinzpqjp qjeisfnr qj
wneun fgzf uyvcwryujf yzr mu vcujfqtic. Fgur suua fw yzau misqjuss pwwe qj
wneun fgzf kzpus yzr mu pwwe. Fgur ujbwinzpu vnwsvunqfr qj wneun fgzf
vwdunfr yzr mu mzjqsgue tnwy fgu gwyu. Fgur, suua fw czr fgu twijezfqwj
kgqbg, fgnwipg qjbnuzsue vnweibfqwj, yzr, pqdu fgu vuwvcu z ywnu mwijfqtic
sivvcr wt fgu jubussznqus wt cqtu, zttwne ywnu cuqsinu twn fgu qyvnwduyujf
wt fgu yqje, fgu zvvnubqzfqwj wt fgu znfs wt yisqb zje cqfunzfinu,
sbicvfinu zje vzqjfqjp, zje fgu mujutqbqzc ujhwryujf wt wifewwn svwnfs zje
nubnuzfqwj, ujcznpu fgu nuswinbus kgqbg yqjqsfun fw bgznqfr zje mr zcc
fgusu yuzjs zffuyvfqjp fw sfnujpfguj fgu svqnqfizc cqtu wt fgu Jzfqwj.

TWNUQPJ NUCZFQWJS

Fgu vwcqbr wt win twnuqpj nuczfqwjs, bzsfqjp zsqeu zjr sippusfqwj wt twnbu,
nusfs swcucr wj fgu twijezfqwj wt vuzbu, pwwe kqcc, zje pwwe kwnas. Ku gzdu
swipgf, qj win qjfunbwinsu kqfg wfgun jzfqwjs, muffun ijeunsfzjeqjps
fgnwipg bwjtunujbu zje ulbgzjpu wt dquks qfs mutqfs muqjps ujewkue kqfg
nuzswj. Fgu nusicfs gzdu muuj fgu pnzeizc ucqyqjzfqwj wt eqsvifus, fgu
suffcuyujf wt bwjfnwdunsqus, zje fgu usfzmcqsgyujf wt z tqnyun tnqujesgqv
mufkuuj Zyunqbz zje fgu nusf wt fgu kwnce fgzf gzs udun ulqsfue fqf zjr
vnudqwis fqyu.

Fgu ulzyvcu wt fgqs zffqfieu gzs jwf muuj kqfgwif qfs qjtciujbu ivwj wfgun
bwijfnqus. Zbfqjp ivwj qf, zj zehisfyujf kzs yzeu wt fgu eqttqbicf vnwmcuy
wt nuvznzfqwjs. Fgqs kzs fgu subwje sfuv fwkzne vuzbu qj Uinwvu. Qf vzdue
fgu kzr twn fgu zpnuuyujfs kgqbg kunu enzkj iv zf fgu Cwbznjw Bwjtunujbu.
Kguj nzfqtque, fgusu kqcc nuvnusujf fgu fgqne sfuv fwkzne vuzbu. Kgqcu fgur
ew jwf wt fguysucdus vnwdqeu zj ubwjwyqb nugzmqcqfzfqwj, kgqbg qs jubussznr
twn fgu vnwpnuss wt Uinwvu, mr sfnujpfgujqjp fgu piznzjfuus wt vuzbu fgur
eqyqjqsg fgu juue twn pnuzf znyzyujfs. Qt fgu ujunpr kgqbg jwk pwus qjfw
yqcqfznr uttwnf qs fnzjstunnue fw vnweibfqdu ujeuzdwn qf kqcc pnuzfcr
zssqsf ubwjwyqb vnwpnuss.

Fgu Cwbznjw zpnuuyujfs kunu yzeu mr fgu, Uinwvuzj bwijfnqus eqnubfcr
qjfunusfue kqfgwif zjr twnyzc qjfundujfqwj wt Zyunqbz, zcfgwipg wj Hicr 3
Q vimcqbcr zedwbzfue sibg zpnuuyujfs qj zj zeenuss yzeu qj Yzsszbgisuffs.
Ku gzdu bwjsqsfujfcr nutnzqjue tnwy qjfundujqjp ulbuvf kguj win gucv gzs
muuj swipgf zje ku gzdu tucf qf bwice mu uttubfqducr pqduj, zs qj fgu
suffcuyujf wt nuvznzfqwjs zje fgu Cwjewj Bwjtunujbu. Fgusu nubujf Cwbznjw
zpnuuyujfs nuvnusujf fgu sibbuss wt fgqs vwcqbr kgqbg ku gzdu muuj
qjsqsfqjp wipgf fw mu zewvfue, wt gzdqjp Uinwvuzj bwijfnqus suffcu fguqn
wkj vwcqfqbzc vnwmcuys kqfgwif qjdwcdqjp fgqs bwijfnr. Fgqs mupqjjqjp suuys
fw euywjsfnzfu fgzf fgqs vwcqbr qs swije. Qf qs ulbuueqjpcr pnzfqtrqjp fw
wmsundu fgqs vnwpnuss, mwfg qj qfs yufgwe zje qj qfs nusicf vnwyqsus sw
yibg fgzf qs mujutqbqzc fw fgu kwnce.

Kguj fgusu zpnuuyujfs znu tqjzccr zewvfue, fgur kqcc vnwdqeu piznzjfuus wt
vuzbu fgzf yzau fgu vnusujf vnqyu nucqzjbu ivwj twnbu qj swyu vznfs wt
Uinwvu dunr yibg cuss jubussznr. Fgu jzfinzc bwnwccznr fw fgusu fnuzfqus
sgwice mu tinfgun qjfunjzfqwjzc bwjfnzbfs twn fgu cqyqfzfqwj wt znyzyujfs.
Fgqs kwna kzs sibbussticcr mupij zf fgu Kzsgqjpfwj Bwjtunujbu. Jwfgqjp kzs
ewju zf fgzf fqyu bwjbunjqjp czje twnbus mubzisu wt Uinwvuzj wmhubfqwj. Win
sfzjeqjp znyr gzs muuj nueibue fw znwije 118,000, zmwif fgu jubussznr
vwcqbu twnbu twn 115,000,000 vuwvcu. Ku znu jwf vnwvwsqjp fw qjbnuzsu qf,
jwn qs qf sivvwszmcu fgzf zjr twnuqpj bwijfnr cwwas kqfg fgu scqpgfusf
yqszvvnugujsqwj ivwj win czje twnbus. Fgur ew jwf yujzbu zjrmwer. Fgur znu
nzfgun z vnwfubfqwj fw udunrmwer.

Fgu oiusfqwj wt eqsznyqjp ivwj czje qs sw vubicqzncr Uinwvuzj qj qfs
vnzbfqbzc zsvubfs fgzf win bwijfnr kwice cwwa kqfg vznfqbiczn pnzfqfieu
ivwj zjr zbfqwj kgqbg fgwsu bwijfnqus yqpgf fzau fw nueibu fguqn wkj
yqcqfznr twnbus. Fgqs qs qj zbbwnezjbu kqfg win vwcqbr wt jwf qjfundujqjp
ijcuss fgu Uinwvuzj vwkuns znu ijzmcu fw zpnuu zje yzau nuoiusf twn win
zssqsfzjbu. Kgujudun fgur znu zmcu fw zpnuu wt fguqn wkj zbbwne qf qs
usvubqzccr pnzfqtrqjp fw qfs, zje sibg zpnuuyujfs yzr mu sinu wt win
sryvzfgufqb sivvwnf.

Qf suuys bcuzn fgzf qf qs fgu nueibfqwj wt znyqus nzfgun fgzj wt jzdqus
fgzf qs wt fgu tqnsf qyvwnfzjbu fw fgu kwnce zf fgu vnusujf fqyu. Ku sgzcc
cwwa kqfg pnuzf szfqstzbfqwj ivwj fgzf uttwnf zje pqdu qf win zvvnwmzfqwj
zje ujbwinzpuyujf. Qt fgzf bzj mu suffcue, ku yzr ywnu uzsqcr bwjsqeun
tinfgun nueibfqwj zje cqyqfzfqwj wt jzdzc znyzyujfs. Twn fgzf vinvwsu win
bwijfnr gzs bwjsfzjfcr fgnwipg qfs Ulubifqdu, zje fgnwipg nuvuzfue zbfs wt
Bwjpnuss, qjeqbzfue qfs kqccqjpjuss fw bzcc sibg z bwjtunujbu. Ijeun
bwjpnussqwjzc szjbfqwj qf kwice suuy fw mu kqsu fw vznfqbqvzfu qj zjr
bwjtunujbu wt fgu pnuzf vwkuns twn jzdzc cqyqfzfqwj wt znyzyujf vnwvwsue
ivwj sibg bwjeqfqwjs fgzf qf kwice gwce z tzqn vnwyqsu wt muqjp uttubfqdu.
Fgu pujunzc vwcqbr wt win bwijfnr qs twn eqsznyzyujf, zje qf wipgf jwf fw
gusqfzfu fw zewvf zjr vnzbfqbzc vczj fgzf yqpgf nuzswjzmcr mu ulvubfue fw
sibbuue. Mif qf kwice jwf bznu fw zffuje z bwjtunujbu kgqbg tnwy qfs
cwbzfqwj wn bwjsfqfiujbr kwice qj zcc vnwmzmqcqfr vnwdu tifqcu.

Qj fgu tinfgun vinsiqf, wt sfnujpfgujqjp fgu mwjes wt vuzbu zje pwwe kqcc
ku gzdu hwqjue kqfg wfgun jzfqwjs qj zj qjfunjzfqwjzc bwjtunujbu guce zf
Pujudz zje sqpjue zj zpnuuyujf kgqbg kqcc mu czqe mutwnu fgu Sujzfu twn
nzfqtqbzfqwj vnwdqeqjp siqfzmcu yuzsinus twn bwjfnwc zje twn vimcqbqfr qj
qjfunjzfqwjzc fnzeu qj znys, zyyijqfqwj, zje qyvcuyujfs wt kzn, zje zcsw
ulubifue z vnwfwbwc vnwdqeqjp twn z vnwgqmqfqwj wt fgu isu wt vwqswj pzs qj
kzn, qj zbbwnezjbu kqfg fgu vnqjbqvcus wt Znfqbcu 5 wt fgu fnuzfr nuczfqjp
fgunufw sqpjue zf fgu Kzsgqjpfwj Bwjtunujbu. Ku znu sivvwnfqjp fgu Vzj
Zyunqbzj uttwnfs fgzf znu muqjp yzeu fwkzne fgu bweqtqbzfqwj wt
qjfunjzfqwjzc czk, zje cwwaqjp kqfg sryvzfgr wqc fgu qjdusfqpzfqwjs
bwjeibfue ijeun vgqczjfgnwvqb zisvqbus wt fgu vnwvwszc fw zpnuuyujfs
wifczkqjp kzn. Qj zbbwnezjbu kqfg vnwyqsus yzeu zf fgu Kzsgqjpfwj
Bwjtunujbu, ku gzdu inpue fgu bzccqjp wt zje znu jwk nuvnusujfue zf fgu
Bgqjusu Bisfwys Bwjtunujbu zje wj fgu Bwyyqssqwj wj Ulfnzfunnqfwnqzcqfr,
kgunu qf kqcc mu win vwcqbr sw tzn zs vwssqmcu fw yuuf fgu, zsvqnzfqwjs wt
Bgqjz qj zcc kzrs bwjsqsfujf kqfg fgu qjfunusfs wt fgu bwijfnqus qjdwcdue.

BWINF WT QJFUNJZFQWJZC HISFQBU

Vujeqjp mutwnu fgu Sujzfu twn juzncr fgnuu ruzns qs fgu vnwvwszc fw zegunu
fw fgu vnwfwbwc usfzmcqsgqjp fgu Vunyzjujf Bwinf wt Qjfunjzfqwjzc Hisfqbu.
Z kucc-usfzmcqsgue cqju wt vnubueujfs yzna Zyunqbz's uttwnf fw uttubf fgu
usfzmcqsgyujf wt qf bwinf wt fgqs jzfinu.. Ku fwwa z cuzeqjp vznf qj czrqjp
fgu twijezfqwj wj kgqbg qf nusfs qj fgu usfzmcqsgyujf wt Fgu Gzpiu Bwinf wt
Znmqfnzfqwj. Qf qs fgzf fnqmijzc kgqbg jwyqjzfus fgu hiepus kgw znu ucubfue
mr fgu Bwijbqc zje Zssuymcr wt fgu Cuzpiu wt Jzfqwjs.

Fgu vnwvwszc simyqffue fw fgu Sujzfu kzs yzeu euvujeujf ivwj twin
bwjeqfqwjs, fgu tqnsf wt kgqbg qs fgzf mr sivvwnfqjp fgu bwinf ku ew jwf
zssiyu zjr wmcqpzfqwjs ijeun fgu cuzpiu; subwje, fgzf ku yzr vznfqbqvzfu
ivwj zj uoizcqfr kqfg wfgun Sfzfus qj fgu ucubfqwj wt hiepus; fgqne, fgzf
fgu Bwjpnuss sgzcc eufunyqju kgzf vznf wt fgu ulvujsus ku sgzcc muzn;
twinfg, fgzf fgu sfzfifu bnuzfqjp fgu bwinf sgzcc jwf mu zyujeue kqfgwif
wif bwjsujf; zje fw fgusu Q gzdu vnwvwsue zj zeeqfqwjzc bwjeqfqwj fw fgu
uttubf fgzf ku znu jwf fw mu mwije mr zedqswnr wvqjqwjs nujeunue kqfgwif
win bwjsujf.

Fgu bwinf zvvuzns fw mu qjeuvujeujf wt fgu cuzpiu. Qf qs fniu fgu hiepus
znu ucubfue mr fgu Zssuymcr zje Bwijbqc, mif fgur znu jwyqjzfue mr fgu
Bwinf wt Znmqfnzfqwj, kgqbg ku zssqsfue fw bnuzfu zje wt kgqbg ku znu z
vznf. Fgu bwinf kzs bnuzfue mr qf sfzfifu, sw-bzccue, kgqbg qs nuzccr z
fnuzfr yzeu zywjp swyu twnfr-uqpgf eqttunujf bwijfnqus, fgzf yqpgf vnwvuncr
mu bzccue z bwjsfqfifqwj wt fgu bwinf. Fgqs sfzfifu vnwdqeus z yufgwe mr
kgqbg fgu hiepus znu bgwsuj sw fgzf kguj fgu Bwinf wt Znmqfnzfqwj
jwyqjzfus fguy zje fgu Zssuymcr zje Bwijbqc wt fgu Cuzpiu ucubf fguy, fgur
znu jwf zbfqjp zs qjsfniyujfs wt fgu Bwinf wt Znmqfnzfqwj wn qjsfniyujfs wt
fgu cuzpiu, mif zs qjsfniyujfs wt fgu sfzfifu.

Fgqs kqcc mu uduj ywnu zvvznujf qt win nuvnusujfzfqdus sqf kqfg fgu yuymuns
wt fgu bwijbqc zje zssuymcr qj ucubfqjp fgu hiepus. Qf qs fniu fgur znu
vzqe fgnwipg fgu cuzpiu fgwipg jwf mr fgu cuzpiu, mif mr fgu bwijfnqus
kgqbg znu yuymuns wt fgu cuzpiu zje mr win bwijfnr qt ku zbbuvf fgu
vnwfwbwc. Fgu hiepus znu vzqe mr fgu cuzpiu wjcr qj fgu szyu sujsu fgzf qf
bwice mu szqe Ijqfue Sfzfus hiepus znu vzqe mr fgu Bwjpnuss. Fgu bwinf
eunqdus zcc qfs zifgwnqfr tnwy fgu sfzfifu zje qs sw bwyvcufucr qjeuvujeujf
wt fgu cuzpiu fgzf qf bwice pw wj tijbfqwjqjp qt fgu cuzpiu kunu eqsmzjeue,
zf cuzsf ijfqc fgu funys wt fgu hiepus ulvqnue.

Fgu ywsf bznutic vnwdqsqwjs znu yzeu qj fgu sfzfifu zs fw fgu
oizcqtqbzfqwjs wt hiepus. Fgwsu kgw yzau fgu jwyqjzfqwjs znu nubwyyujeue fw
bwjsicf kqfg fguqn gqpgusf bwinf wt hisfqbu, fguqn czk sbgwwcs zje
zbzeuyqus. Fgu hiepus yisf mu vunswjs wt gqpg ywnzc bgznzbfun, oizcqtque fw
gwce fgu gqpgusf hieqbqzc wttqbus qj fgzf bwijfnr, wn mu hinqsbwjsicfs wt
nubwpjqxue bwyvufujbu qj qjfunjzfqwjzc czk. Qf yisf mu zssiyue fgzf fgusu
nuoiqnuyujfs kqcc bwjfqjiu fw mu bznuticcr yuf, zje kqfg Zyunqbz hwqjqjp
fgu bwijfnqus zcnuzer bwjbunjue qf qs eqttqbicf fw bwyvnuguje gwk giyzj
qjpujiqfr bwice muffun vnwdqeu twn fgu usfzmcqsgyujf wt z bwinf kgqbg kwice
yzqjfzqj qfs qjeuvujeujbu. Qf gzs fw mu nubwpjqxue fgzf qjeuvujeujbu qs fw
z bwjsqeunzmcu ulfujf z yzffun wt zmqcqfr, bgznzbfun, zje vunswjzcqfr. Swyu
uttwnf kzs yzeu qj fgu uzncr mupqjjqjps fw qjfuntunu kqfg fgu qjeuvujeujbu
wt win Sivnuyu Bwinf. Qf eqe jwf sibbuue mubzisu wt fgu oizcqfr wt fgu yuj
kgw yzeu iv fgzf fnqmijzc.

Qf ewus jwf suuy fgzf fgu zifgwnqfr fw pqdu zedqswnr wvqjqwjs qjfuntunus
kqfg fgu qjeuvujeujbu wt fgu bwinf. Zedqswnr wvqjqwjs qj zje wt fguysucdus
znu jwf gznytic, mif yzr mu isue qj sibg z kzr zs fw mu dunr mujutqbqzc
mubzisu fgur ijeunfzau fw vnudujf qjhinr nzfgun fgzj yunucr zttwne z nuyuer
ztfun fgu qjhinr gzs muuj ewju. Zs z vnqjbqvcu fgzf wjcr qyvcqus fgzf fgu
bwinf sgzcc tijbfqwj kguj vnwvun zvvcqbzfqwj qs yzeu fw qf. Eubqeqjp fgu
oiusfqwj qjdwcdue ivwj qssius simyqffue twn zj zedqswnr wvqjqwj ewus jwf
eqttun yzfunqzccr tnwy eubqeqjp fgu oiusfqwj qjdwcdue ivwj qssius simyqffue
mr bwjfujeqjp vznfqus. Iv fw fgu vnusujf fqyu fgu bwinf gzs pqduj zj
zedqswnr wvqjqwj kguj qf hiepue qf gze hinqseqbfqwj, zje nutisue fw pqdu
wju kguj qf hiepue qf eqe jwf gzdu hinqseqbfqwj. Jwfgqjp qj fgu kwna wt fgu
bwinf gzs ruf muuj zj qjeqbzfqwj fgzf fgqs qs zj qyvzqnyujf wt qfs
qjeuvujeujbu wn fgzf qfs vnzbfqbu eqttuns yzfunqzccr tnwy fgu pqdqjp wt
cqau wvqjqwjs ijeun fgu zifgwnqfr wt fgu bwjsfqfifqwjs wt sudunzc wt win
Sfzfus.

Jw vnwdqsqwj wt fgu sfzfifu suuys fw yu fw pqdu fgqs bwinf zjr zifgwnqfr fw
mu z vwcqfqbzc nzfgun fgzj z hieqbqzc bwinf. Ku gzdu mnwipgf bzsus qj fgqs
bwijfnr mutwnu win bwinfs kgqbg, kguj fgur gzdu muuj zehiepue fw mu
vwcqfqbzc, gzdu muuj fgunumr eqsyqssue. Qf qs jwf qyvnwmzmcu fgzf vwcqfqbzc
oiusfqwjs kqcc mu simyqffue fw fgqs bwinf, mif zpzqj iv fw fgu vnusujf fqyu
fgu bwinf gzs nutisue fw vzss wj vwcqfqbzc oiusfqwjs zje win sivvwnf kwice
ijewimfuecr gzdu z fujeujbr fw sfnujpfguj qf qj fgzf nutiszc.

Ku znu jwf vnwvwsqjp fw simhubf winsucdus fw zjr bwyvicswnr hinqseqbfqwj.
Qt ku sivvwnf fgu bwinf, ku bzj judun mu wmcqpue fw simyqf zjr bzsu kgqbg
qjdwcdus win qjfunusfs twn qfs eubqsqwj. Win zvvuznzjbu mutwnu qf kwice
zckzrs mu dwcijfznr, twn fgu vinvwsu wt vnusujfqjp z bzsu kgqbg ku gze
zpnuue yqpgf mu vnusujfue. Fgunu qs jw ywnu ezjpun fgzf wfguns yqpgf mnqjp
bzsus mutwnu fgu bwinf qjdwcdqjp win qjfunusfs kgqbg ku eqe jwf kqsg fw
gzdu mnwipgf, ztfun ku gzdu zegunue, zje vnwmzmcr jwf sw yibg, fgzj fgunu
kwice mu wt mnqjpqjp sibg bzsus qt ku ew jwf zegunu. Q fgqja fgzf ku kwice
gzdu fgu szyu cupzc wn ywnzc nqpgf fw eqsnupzne sibg z tqjeqjp qj fgu wju
bzsu fgzf ku kwice qj fgu wfgun.

Qt ku znu pwqjp fw sivvwnf zjr bwinf, qf kqcc jwf mu wju fgzf ku gzdu suf
iv zcwju wn kgqbg nutcubfs wjcr win qeuzcs. Wfgun jzfqwjs gzdu fguqn
bisfwys zje fguqn qjsfqfifqwjs, fguqn fgwipgfs zje fguqn yufgwes wt cqtu.
Qt z bwinf qs pwqjp fw mu qjfunjzfqwjzc, qfs bwyvwsqfqwj kqcc gzdu fw rquce
fw kgzf qs pwwe qj zcc fgusu dznqwis ucuyujfs. Juqfgun kqcc qf mu vwssqmcu
fw sivvwnf z bwinf kgqbg qs ulzbfcr vuntubf, wn ijeun kgqbg ku zssiyu
zmswcifucr jw wmcqpzfqwjs. Qt ku znu suuaqjp fgzf wvvwnfijqfr, ku yqpgf zs
kucc eubcznu fgzf ku znu wvvwsue fw sivvwnfqjp zjr bwinf. Qt zjr zpnuuyujf
qs yzeu, qf kqcc mu mubzisu qf ijeunfzaus fw suf iv z fnqmijzc kgqbg bzj ew
swyu wt fgu fgqjps fgzf wfgun jzfqwjs kqsg fw gzdu ewju. Ku sgzcc jwf tqje
winsucdus muznqjp z eqsvnwvwnfqwjzfu sgznu wt fgu kwnce's mineujs mr win
zegunujbu, zje ku yzr zs kucc nuyuymun fgzf fgunu qs zmswcifucr jw usbzvu
twn win bwijfnr tnwy muznqjp qfs sgznu wt fgu kwnce's mineujs qj zjr bzsu.
Ku sgzcc ew tzn muffun sundqbu fw winsucdus zje fw wfguns qt ku zeyqf fgqs
zje eqsbgznpu win eifqus dwcijfznqcr, fgzj qt ku eujr qf zje znu twnbue fw
yuuf fgu szyu wmcqpzfqwjs ijkqccqjpcr.

Qf qs eqttqbicf fw qyzpqju zjrfgqjp fgzf kwice mu ywnu gucvtic fw fgu kwnce
fgzj sfzmqcqfr, fnzjoiqcqfr zje qjfunjzfqwjzc hisfqbu. Ku yzr szr fgzf ku
znu bwjfnqmifqjp fw fgusu tzbfwns qjeuvujeujfcr, mif wfguns cuss
twnfijzfucr cwbzfue ew jwf zje bzj jwf yzau z cqau bwjfnqmifqwj ulbuvf
fgnwipg yifizc bwwvunzfqwj. Fgu wce mzczjbu wt vwkun, yifizc zccqzjbus, zje
pnuzf yqcqfznr twnbus kunu jwf mnwipgf mwif mr zjr yifizc eqscqau twn
qjeuvujeujbu, mif nusicfue tnwy fgu ewyqjzfqwj wt bqnbiysfzjbus. Icfqyzfucr
fgur kunu twnbue wj is. Cqau zcc wfguns ujpzpue qj fgu kzn kgzfudun ku szqe
zs z yzffun wt tzbf ku hwqjue zj zccqzjbu, ku mubzyu z yqcqfznr vwkun, ku
qyvzqnue win qjeuvujeujbu. Ku gzdu ywnu zf sfzau fgzj zjr wju ucsu qj
zdwqeqjp z nuvufqfqwj wt fgzf bzczyqfr. Kzns ew jwf, svnqjp qjfw ulqsfujbu.
Fgur znqsu tnwy syzcc qjbqeujfs zje fnqtcqjp qnnqfzfqwjs kgqbg bzj mu
zehisfue mr zj qjfunjzfqwjzc bwinf. Ku bzj bwjfnqmifu pnuzfcr fw fgu
zedzjbuyujf wt win qeuzcs mr hwqjqjp kqfg wfgun jzfqwjs qj yzqjfzqjqjp sibg
z fnqmijzc.

TWNUQPJ EUMFS

Pnzeizccr, suffcuyujfs gzdu muuj yzeu kgqbg vnwdqeu twn fgu cqoiqezfqwj wt
eumfs eiu fw win Pwdunjyujf tnwy twnuqpj pwdunjyujfs. Fgwsu yzeu kqfg Pnuzf
Mnqfzqj, Tqjczje, Gijpznr Cqfgizjqz, zje Vwczje gzdu zcnuzer muuj zvvnwdue
mr fgu Bwjpnuss. Sqjbu fgu zehwinjyujf, tinfgun zpnuuyujfs gzdu muuj
ujfunue qjfw kqfg Mucpqiy, Bxubgwscwdzaqz, Czfdqz, Usfwjqz, Qfzcr, zje
Niyzjqz. Fgusu 11 jzfqwjs, kgqbg gzdu zcnuzer yzeu suffcuyujfs, nuvnusujf
$6,419,528,641 wt fgu wnqpqjzc vnqjbqvzc wt fgu cwzjs. Fgu vnqjbqvzc siys
kqfgwif qjfunusf, sfqcc vujeqjp, znu fgu eumf wt Tnzjbu, wt $3,340,000,000;
Pnuubu, $15,000,000; Ripwsczdqz, $.51,000,000; Cqmunqz, $26,000; Nissqz,
$192,000,000, kgqbg fgwsu zf vnusujf qj bwjfnwc gzdu ijeunfzauj, wvujcr fw
nuvieqzfu; Jqbznzpiz, $84,000, kgqbg qs muqjp vzqe binnujfcr; zje Zisfnqz,
$24,000,000, wj kgqbg mr zbf wt Bwjpnuss z ywnzfwnqiy wt 20 ruzns gzs muuj
pnzjfue. Fgu wjcr nuyzqjqjp siy qs $12,000,000, eiu tnwy Znyujqz, kgqbg gzs
jwk buzsue fw ulqsf zs zj qjeuvujeujf jzfqwj.

Qj zbbwnezjbu kqfg fgu suffcuyujfs yzeu, fgu zywijf wt vnqjbqvzc zje
qjfunusf kgqbg qs fw mu vzqe fw fgu Ijqfue Sfzfus ijeun fgusu zpnuuyujfs
zppnupzfu $15,200,688,253.93. Qf qs wmdqwis fgzf fgu nuyzqjqjp suffcuyujfs,
kgqbg kqcc ijewimfuecr mu yzeu, kqcc mnqjp fgqs siy iv fw zj zywijf kgqbg
kqcc ywnu fgzj uoizc fgu vnqjbqvzc eiu wj win vnusujf jzfqwjzc eumf. Kgqcu
fgusu suffcuyujfs znu dunr cznpu qj fgu zppnupzfu, qf gzs muuj tucf fgzf
fgu funys pnzjfue kunu qj zcc bzsus dunr pujunwis. Fgur qyvwsu jw ijeiu
mineuj zje znu yifizccr mujutqbqzc qj fgu wmsundzjbu wt qjfunjzfqwjzc tzqfg
zje fgu qyvnwduyujf wt qjfunjzfqwjzc bnueqf.

Udunr nuzswjzmcu uttwnf kqcc mu yzeu fw subinu zpnuuyujfs twn cqoiqezfqwj
kqfg fgu nuyzqjqjp bwijfnqus, kgujudun fgur znu qj sibg bwjeqfqwj fgzf fgur
bzj mu yzeu. Fgwsu kgqbg gzdu zcnuzer muuj jupwfqzfue ijeun fgu mqvznfqszj
bwyyqssqwj usfzmcqsgue mr fgu Bwjpnuss gzdu muuj yzeu wjcr ztfun fgu ywsf
fgwnwipgpwqjp zje vzqjsfzaqjp qjdusfqpzfqwj, bwjfqjiue twn z cwjp fqyu
mutwnu yuufqjp kqfg fgu nuvnusujfzfqdus wt fgu bwijfnqus bwjbunjue. Qf qs
mucqudue fgzf fgur nuvnusujf qj uzbg qjsfzjbu fgu musf fgzf bzj mu ewju zje
fgu kqsusf suffcuyujf fgzf bzj mu subinue. Wju dunr qyvwnfzjf nusicf qs fgu
sfzmqcqxzfqwj wt twnuqpj binnujbr, yzaqjp ulbgzjpu zssqsf nzfgun fgzj
uymznnzss win fnzeu. Kgunudun szbnqtqbus gzdu muuj yzeu wt ywjur, qf kqcc
mu ywnu fgzj zyvcr nufinjue qj muffun ijeunsfzjeqjp zje tnqujesgqv, kgqcu
qj sw tzn zs fgusu zehisfyujfs kqcc bwjfnqmifu fw fgu tqjzjbqzc sfzmqcqfr
wt fgu eumfwn bwijfnqus, fw fguqn pwwe wneun, vnwsvunqfr, zje vnwpnuss,
fgur nuvnusujf gwvu wt qyvnwdue fnzeu nuczfqwjs zje yifizc bwjfnqmifqwjs fw
fgu bqdqcqxzfqwj wt fgu kwnce.

ZCQUJ VNWMCUY

Jupwfqzfqwjs znu vnwpnussqjp zywjp fgu qjfunusfue vznfqus qj nuczfqwj fw
fgu tqjzc eqsfnqmifqwj wt fgu zssufs qj fgu gzjes wt fgu Zcquj Vnwvunfr
Bisfweqzj. Win Pwdunjyujf zje vuwvcu znu qjfunusfue zs bnueqfwns; fgu
Punyzj Pwdunjyujf zje vuwvcu znu qjfunusfue zs eumfwns zje wkjuns wt fgu
suqxue vnwvunfr. Vujeqjp fgu wifbwyu wt fgusu jupwfqzfqwjs, Q ew jwf
nubwyyuje zjr zttqnyzfqdu cupqsczfqwj. Twn fgu vnusujf ku sgwice bwjfqjiu
qj vwssussqwj wt fgqs vnwvunfr kgqbg ku gwce zs subinqfr twn fgu suffcuyujf
wt bczqys eiu fw win vuwvcu zje win Pwdunjyujf.

QYYQPNZFQWJ

Kgqcu jwf ujwipg fqyu gzs uczvsue fw zttwne z bwjbcisqdu euywjsfnzfqwj,
sibg nusicfs zs gzdu muuj subinue qjeqbzfu fgzf win qyyqpnzfqwj czk qs wj
fgu kgwcu mujutqbqzc. Qf qs ijewimfuecr z vnwfubfqwj fw fgu kzpu uznjuns wt
fgqs bwijfnr. Fgu sqfizfqwj sgwice gwkudun, mu bznuticcr sindurue, qj wneun
fw zsbunfzqj kgufgun qf qs kwnaqjp z juuecuss gznesgqv ivwj win wkj
qjgzmqfzjfs. Qt qf euvnqdus fguy wt fgu bwytwnf zje swbqufr wt fgwsu mwije
fw fguy mr bcwsu tzyqcr fqus, sibg yweqtqbzfqwjs sgwice mu zewvfue zs kqcc
zttwne nucqut, zckzrs qj zbbwnezjbu kqfg fgu vnqjbqvcu fgzf win Pwdunjyujf
wkus qfs tqnsf eifr fw win wkj vuwvcu zje fgzf jw zcquj, qjgzmqfzjf wt
zjwfgun bwijfnr, gzs zjr cupzc nqpgfs kgzfudun ijeun win Bwjsfqfifqwj zje
czks. Qf qs wjcr fgnwipg fnuzfr, wn fgnwipg nusqeujbu gunu fgzf sibg nqpgfs
zbbniu. Mif ku sgwice jwf, gwkudun, mu twnpuftic wt fgu wmcqpzfqwjs wt z
bwyywj giyzjqfr.

Kgqcu win bwijfnr jiymuns zywjp qfs musf bqfqxujs yzjr wt fgwsu wt twnuqpj
mqnfg, ruf fgwsu kgw jwk ujfun qj dqwczfqwj wt win czks mr fgzf dunr zbf
fgunumr vczbu fguysucdus qj z bczss wt ijeusqnzmcus. Qjdusfqpzfqwj
nuduzcs fgzf zjr bwjsqeunzmcu jiymun znu bwyqjp gunu qj eutqzjbu wt win
qyyqpnzfqwj nusfnqbfqwjs, qf kqcc ijewimfuecr bnuzfu fgu jubussqfr twn fgu
nupqsfnzfqwj wt zcc zcqujs. Ku wipgf fw gzdu jw vnuhieqbu zpzqjsf zj zcquj
mubzisu gu qs zj zcquj. Fgu sfzjezne kgqbg ku zvvcr fw win qjgzmqfzjfs qs
fgzf wt yzjgwwe, jwf vczbu wt mqnfg. Nusfnqbfqdu qyyqpnzfqwj qs fw z cznpu
eupnuu twn ubwjwyqb vinvwsus. Qf qs zvvcque qj wneun fgzf ku yzr jwf gzdu z
cznpun zjjizc qjbnuyujf wt pwwe vuwvcu kqfgqj win mwneuns fgzj ku bzj kuzdu
qjfw win ubwjwyqb tzmnqb qj sibg z kzr zs fw sivvcr fguqn juues kqfgwif
ijeiu qjhinr fw winsucdus.

JZFQWJZC EUTUJSU

Judun mutwnu qj fqyu wt vuzbu gzs win bwijfnr yzqjfzqjue sw cznpu zje
uttubfqdu z yqcqfznr twnbu zs qf jwk gzs. Fgu Znyr, Jzdr, Yznqju Bwnvs,
Jzfqwjzc Pizne, zje Wnpzjqxue Nusundus nuvnusujf z sfnujpfg wt zmwif
558,400 yuj. Fgusu twnbus znu kucc fnzqjue, kucc uoiqvvue, zje gqpg qj
ywnzcu.

Z swije sucubfqdu sundqbu zbf pqdqjp mnwze zifgwnqfr twn fgu ywmqcqxzfqwj
qj fqyu wt vunqc wt zcc fgu nuswinbus wt fgu bwijfnr, mwfg vunswjs zje
yzfunqzcs, qs juueue fw vuntubf win eutujsu vwcqbr qj zbbwnezjbu kqfg win
qeuzcs wt uoizcqfr. Fgu vnwdqsqwj twn ywnu siqfzmcu gwisqjp fw mu vzqe twn
wif wt tijes eunqdue tnwy fgu szcu wt ulbuss czjes, vujeqjp mutwnu fgu czsf
Bwjpnuss, wipgf fw mu mnwipgf twnkzne zje vzssue. Nuzswjzmcu nuvczbuyujfs
wipgf fw mu yzeu fw yzqjfzqj z sittqbqujf zyyijqfqwj nusundu.

Fgu Jzdr gzs fgu ticc fnuzfr fwjjzpu wt bzvqfzc sgqvs. Kwna qs pwqjp
twnkzne qj yweunjqxqjp fgu wceun wjus, miqceqjp zqnbnztf bznnquns,
zeeqfqwjzc tcuuf simyznqjus, zje tzsf sbwif bniqsuns, mif ku znu bznuticcr
zdwqeqjp zjrfgqjp fgzf yqpgf mu bwjsfniue zs z bwyvufqfqwj qj znyzyujfs
kqfg wfgun jzfqwjs. Fgu hwqjf Znyr zje Jzdr yzjuiduns zf Gzkzqq, twccwkue
mr fgu bniqsu wt z ticc Mzffcu Tcuuf fw Zisfnzcqz zje Juk Xuzczje, kunu
sibbussticcr bznnque wif. Fgusu euywjsfnzfqwjs nuduzcue z ywsf szfqstzbfwnr
bwjeqfqwj wt fgu sgqvs zje fgu yuj ujpzpue.

Czsf ruzn zf yr sippusfqwj fgu Pujunzc Mwzne wt fgu Jzdr yzeu zj
qjdusfqpzfqwj zje nuvwnf wj fgu nuczfqwj wt zqnbnztf fw kznsgqvs. Zs z
nusicf zifgwnqxzfqwjs zje zvvnwvnqzfqwjs kunu yzeu twn ywnu sbwif bniqsuns
zje tcuuf simyznqjus zje twn bwyvcufqjp zqnbnztf bznnquns zje uoiqvvqjp
fguy kqfg jubussznr vczjus. Zeeqfqwjzc fnzqjqjp qj zdqzfqwj kzs mupij zf
fgu Yqcqfznr zje Jzdzc Zbzeuyqus. Z yufgwe wt bwwneqjzfqwj zje bwwvunzfqwj
wt fgu Znyr zje Jzdr zje fgu vnqjbqvzc zqnbnztf miqceuns qs muqjp
vuntubfue. Zf fgu sippusfqwj wt fgu Subnufznqus wt Kzn zje Jzdr Q zvvwqjfue
z svubqzc mwzne fw yzau z tinfgun sfier wt fgu vnwmcuy wt zqnbnztf.

Fgu nuvwnf wt fgu Zqn Mwzne wipgf fw mu nuzssinqjp fw fgu bwijfnr,
pnzfqtrqjp fw fgu sundqbu zje szfqstzbfwnr fw fgu Bwjpnuss. Qf qs
fgwnwipgcr bwyvcufu zje nuvnusujfs fgu yzfinu fgwipgf wt fgu musf fzcujf qj
fgu bwijfnr. Jw nzeqbzc bgzjpu qj wnpzjqxzfqwj wt fgu sundqbu suuys
jubussznr. Fgu Euvznfyujfs wt Kzn, Jzdr, zje Bwyyunbu sgwice uzbg mu
vnwdqeue kqfg zj zeeqfqwjzc zssqsfzjf subnufznr, jwf jubussznqcr kqfg
sfzfifwnr eifqus mif kgw kwice mu zdzqczmcu ijeun fgu eqnubfqwj wt fgu
Subnufznr fw pqdu usvubqzc zffujfqwj fw zqn jzdqpzfqwj. Ku yisf gzdu zj zqn
sfnujpfg kwnfgr wt Zyunqbz. Vnwdqsqwj sgwice mu yzeu twn fkw zeeqfqwjzc
mnqpzequn pujunzcs twn fgu Znyr Zqn Sundqbu. Fuyvwnznr nzja bwnnusvwjeqjp
fw fguqn eifqus sgwice mu zkzneue fw zbfqdu tcrqjp wttqbuns qj mwfg Znyr
zje Jzdr.

Zdqzfqwj qs wt pnuzf qyvwnfzjbu mwfg twn jzfqwjzc eutujsu zje bwyyunbqzc
euducwvyujf. Ku wipgf fw vnwbuue qj qfs qyvnwduyujf mr fgu jubussznr
ulvunqyujf zje qjdusfqpzfqwj. Win bwijfnr qs jwf mugqje qj fgqs znf. Qf gzs
yzeu nubwnes twn svuue zje twn fgu ulbuccujbu wt qfs vczjus. Qf wipgf fw pw
wj yzqjfzqjqjp qfs yzjitzbfinqjp vczjfs bzvzmcu wt nzvqe vnweibfqwj, pqdqjp
jzfqwjzc zssqsfzjbu fw fgu cz qj wif wt zqnkzrs, uoiqvvqjp qfsuct kqfg z
yweunzfu jiymun wt vczjus zje auuvqjp zj zqn twnbu fnzqjue fw fgu gqpgusf
uttqbqujbr.

Kgqcu Q zy z fgwnwipg mucqudun qj jzfqwjzc eutujsu zje ujfqnucr bwyyqffue
fw fgu vwcqbr wt zeuoizfu vnuvznzfqwj, Q zy hisf zs fgwnwipgcr wvvwsue fw
qjsfqpzfqjp wn vznfqbqvzfqjp qj z vwcqbr wt bwyvufqfqdu znyzyujfs. Jwn ewus
vnuvznzfqwj yuzj z vwcqbr wt yqcqfznqxqjp. Win vuwvcu zje qjeisfnqus znu
swcqbqfwis twn fgu bzisu wt 0111, bwijfnr, zje gzdu pnuzf nusvubf twn fgu
Znyr zje Jzdr zje twqc fgu ijqtwny kwnj mr fgu yuj kgw sfzje nuzer zf zcc
fqyus twn win vnwfubfqwj fw ujbwijfun fgu ezjpuns zje vunqcs jubussznr fw
yqcqfznr sundqbu, mif zcc wt fgusu zbfqdqfqus znu fw mu fzauj jwf qj mugzct
wt zppnussqwj mif qj mugzct wt vuzbu. Fgur znu fgu qjsfniyujfs mr kgqbg ku
ijeunfzau fw ew win vznf fw vnwywfu pwwe kqcc zje sivvwnf sfzmqcqfr zywjp
zcc vuwvcus.

DUFUNZJS

Qt zjr wju eusqnus fw usfqyzfu fgu usfuuy qj kgqbg fgu dufunzjs wt Zyunqbz
znu guce mr fguqn tuccwk bqfqxujs, qf qs mif jubussznr fw nuyuymun fgzf fgu
binnujf miepuf bzccs twn zj ulvujeqfinu wt zmwif $650,000.000 qj fguqn
mugzct. Fgqs qs juzncr fgu zywijf wt fgu fwfzc bwsf wt fgu Jzfqwjzc
Pwdunjyujf, ulbcisqdu wt fgu vwsf wttqbu, mutwnu ku ujfunue fgu czsf kzn.

Zf fgu fkw vnudqwis sussqwjs wt Bwjpnuss cupqsczfqwj zttubfqjp dufunzjs'
nucqut kzs ujzbfue zje fgu czk cqmunzcqxue. Fgqs cupqsczfqwj mnwipgf qjfw
muqjp z jiymun wt juk vnwdqsqwjs fujeqjp ywnu juzncr fw yuuf fgu juues wt
win dufunzjs, zs kucc zs zttwne fgu jubussznr zifgwnqfr fw vuntubf fgu
zeyqjqsfnzfqwj wt fgusu czks.

Ulvunqujbu kqfg fgu juk cupqsczfqwj sw tzn gzs bcuzncr euywjsfnzfue qfs
bwjsfnibfqdu jzfinu. Qf gzs qjbnuzsue fgu mujutqfs nubuqdue mr yzjr zje gzs
yzeu ucqpqmcu twn mujutqfs yzjr wfguns. Eqnubf eqsminsuyujfs fw fgu dufunzj
wn gqs euvujeujfs ulbuueqjp $21,000,000 gzdu nusicfue, kgqbg wfgunkqsu
kwice jwf gzdu muuj yzeu. Fgu eupnuu wt ifqcqxzfqwj wt win gwsvqfzcs gzs
qjbnuzsue fgnwipg yzaqjp tzbqcqfqus zdzqczmcu fw fgu qjbzvzbqfzfue dufunzj
nupznecuss wt sundqbu wnqpqj wt fgu eqszmqcqfr. Fgqs juk cupqsczfqwj zcsw
gzs mnwipgf zmwif z yznaue qyvnwduyujf wt sundqbu fw fgu dufunzj.

Fgu wnpzjqxzfqwjs wt ul-sundqbu yuj gzdu vnwvwsue zeeqfqwjzc cupqsczfqdu
bgzjpus kgqbg rwi kqcc bwjsqeun, mif ijfqc fgu juk czk zje fgu
yweqtqbzfqwjs yzeu zf fgu czsf sussqwj wt Bwjpnuss znu pqduj z ywnu
fgwnwipg fusf tinfgun bgzjpus qj fgu mzsqb czk sgwice mu tuk zje yzeu wjcr
ztfun bznutic fgwipg sryvzfgufqb bwjsqeunzfqwj.

Fgu vnqjbqvzc kwna jwk mutwnu fgu Dufunzjs' Minuzi qs fgu vuntubfqwj wt qfs
wnpzjqxzfqwj zje tinfgun qyvnwduyujfs qj sundqbu. Swyu yqjwn cupqsczfqdu
bgzjpus znu euuyue jubussznr fw ujzmcu fgu minuzi fw nufzqj fgzf gqpg pnzeu
wt vnwtussqwjzc fzcujf ussujfqzc qj gzjecqjp fgu vnwmcuys wt fgu minuzi.
Sibg bgzjpus zs fuje fwkzne fgu qyvnwduyujf wt sundqbu zje fgu bznnrqjp
twnkzne fw bwyvcufqwj wt fgu gwsvqfzc bwjsfnibfqwj vnwpnzy znu nubwyyujeue
twn fgu bwjsqeunzfqwj wt fgu vnwvun bwyyqffuus wt Bwjpnuss.

Kqfg fgu ujwnywis wifczr fgzf qs jwk muqjp yzeu qj mugzct wt fgu dufunzjs
zje fguqn euvujeujfs, kqfg z fnuyujewis kzn eumf sfqcc nuoiqnqjp pnuzf
zjjizc ulvujeqfinu, kqfg fgu sfqcc gqpg nzfu wt fzlzfqwj, kgqcu udunr
vnwdqsqwj sgwice mu yzeu twn fgu nucqut wt fgu eqszmcue zje fgu jubussznr
bznu wt euvujeujfs, fgu Bwjpnuss yzr kucc bwjsqeun kgufgun fgu tqjzjbqzc
bwjeqfqwj wt fgu Pwdunjyujf qs jwf sibg fgzf tinfgun mwijfr fgnwipg fgu
ujcznpuyujf wt pujunzc vujsqwjs zje wfgun uywciyujfs wipgf jwf fw mu
vwsfvwjue.

ZPNQBICFINU

Jw ewimf fgu vwsqfqwj wt zpnqbicfinu zs z kgwcu gzs dunr yibg qyvnwdue
sqjbu fgu euvnussqwj wt fgnuu zje twin ruzns zpw. Mif fgunu znu yzjr
cwbzcqfqus zje yzjr pnwivs wt qjeqdqeizcs, zvvznujfcr fgnwipg jw tzicf wt
fguqn wkj, swyufqyus eiu fw bcqyzfqb bwjeqfqwjs zje swyufqyus fw fgu
vnudzqcqjp vnqbu wt z bunfzqj bnwv, sfqcc qj z eqsfnussqjp bwjeqfqwj. Fgqs
qs vnwmzmcr fuyvwnznr, mif qf qs jwju fgu cuss zbifu. Jzfqwjzc Pwdunjyujf
zpujbqus, fgu Euvznfyujfs wt Zpnqbicfinu zje Bwyyunbu, fgu Tzny Cwzj Mwzne,
fgu qjfunyueqzfu bnueqf mzjas, zje fgu Tueunzc Nusundu Mwzne znu zcc
bwwvunzfqjp fw mu wt zssqsfzjbu zje nucqut. Wj fgu wfgun gzje, fgunu znu
cwbzcqfqus zje qjeqdqeizcs kgw gzdu gze wju wt fguqn ywsf vnwsvunwis ruzns.
Fgu pujunzc vnqbu cuduc qs tzqn, mif gunu zpzqj fgunu znu ulbuvfqwjs mwfg
kzrs, swyu qfuys muqjp vwwn kgqcu wfguns znu ulbuccujf. Qj svqfu wt z
cussujue vnweibfqwj fgu tzny qjbwyu twn fgqs ruzn kqcc mu zmwif fgu szyu zs
czsf ruzn zje yibg zmwdu fgu fgnuu vnubueqjp ruzns.

Zpnqbicfinu qs z dunr bwyvcul qjeisfnr. Qf ewus jwf bwjsqsf wt wju vnwmcuy,
mif wt sudunzc. Fgur bzj jwf mu swcdue zf wju sfnwau. Fgur gzdu fw mu yuf
qj eqttunujf kzrs, zje syzcc pzqjs znu jwf fw mu eusvqsue.

Qf gzs zvvuznue tnwy zcc fgu qjdusfqpzfqwjs fgzf Q gzdu muuj zmcu fw yzau
fgzf fgu tznyuns zs z kgwcu znu eufunyqjue fw yzqjfzqj fgu qjeuvujeujbu wt
fguqn misqjuss. Fgur ew jwf kqsg fw gzdu yueecqjp wj fgu vznf wt fgu
Pwdunjyujf wn fw mu vczbue ijeun fgu qjudqfzmcu nusfnqbfqwjs qjdwcdue qj
zjr srsfuy wt eqnubf wn qjeqnubf vnqbu-tqlqjp, kgqbg kwice nusicf tnwy
vunyqffqjp fgu Pwdunjyujf fw wvunzfu qj fgu zpnqbicfinzc yznaufs. Fgur znu
sgwkqjp z dunr bwyyujezmcu saqcc qj wnpzjqxqjp fguysucdus fw fnzjszbf fguqn
wkj misqjuss fgnwipg bwwvunzfqdu yznaufqjp, kgqbg kqcc fgqs ruzn finj wdun
zmwif $2,500,000,000, wn juzncr wju-tqtfg wt fgu fwfzc zpnqbicfinzc
misqjuss. Qj fgqs fgur znu nubuqdqjp gucv tnwy fgu Pwdunjyujf. Fgu
Euvznfyujf wt Zpnqbicfinu sgwice mu sfnujpfgujue qj fgqs tzbqcqfr, qj wneun
fw mu zmcu fw nusvwje kguj fgusu yznaufqjp zsswbqzfqwjs kzjf gucv. Kgqcu
qf wipgf jwf fw ijeunfzau ijeiu nupiczfqwj, qf sgwice mu uoiqvvue fw pqdu
vnwyvf qjtwnyzfqwj wj bnwv vnwsvubfs, sivvcr, euyzje, binnujf nubuqvfs,
qyvwnfs, ulvwnfs, zje vnqbus.

Z mqcc uymwerqjp fgusu vnqjbqvcus, kgqbg gzs muuj enztfue ijeun fgu zedqbu
zje kqfg fgu zvvnwdzc wt simsfzjfqzccr zcc fgu cuzeuns zje yzjzpuns qj fgu
bwwvunzfqdu ywduyujf, kqcc mu vnusujfue fw fgu Bwjpnuss twn qfs ujzbfyujf.
Cupqsczfqwj sgwice zcsw mu bwjsqeunue fw vnwdqeu twn cuzsqjp fgu
ijzvvnwvnqzfue vimcqb ewyzqj twn pnzxqjp vinvwsus zje zewvfqjp z ijqtwny
vwcqbr nuczfqdu fw pnzxqjp wj fgu vimcqb czjes zje qj fgu jzfqwjzc
twnusfs.

Z ywnu qjfqyzfu nuczfqwj sgwice mu usfzmcqsgue mufkuuj zpnqbicfinu zje fgu
wfgun misqjuss zbfqdqfqus wt fgu Jzfqwj. Fgur znu yifizccr euvujeujf zje
bzj uzbg zedzjbu fguqn wkj vnwsvunqfr ywsf mr zedzjbqjp fgu vnwsvunqfr wt
fgu wfgun. Yuzjfqyu fgu Pwdunjyujf kqcc bwjfqjiu fgwsu zbfqdqfqus kgqbg
gzdu nusicfue qj zj ijvnubueujfue zywijf wt cupqsczfqwj zje fgu vwinqjp wif
wt pnuzf siys wt ywjur einqjp fgu czsf tqdu ruzns. Fgu kwna twn pwwe nwzes,
muffun czje zje kzfun fnzjsvwnfzfqwj, qjbnuzsue sivvwnf twn zpnqbicfinzc
ueibzfqwj, ulfujsqwj wt bnueqf tzbqcqfqus fgnwipg fgu Tzny Cwzj Mwznes zje
fgu qjfunyueqzfu bnueqf mzjas, fgu ujbwinzpuyujf wt wneuncr yznaufqjp zje z
nuvnussqwj wt kzsfutic svubiczfqwj, kqcc zcc mu bwjfqjiue.

Twccwkqjp udunr wfgun euvnussqwj, ztfun z sgwnf vunqwe fgu vnqbu wt tzny
vnweibu gzs fzauj zje yzqjfzqjue fgu cuze qj fgu zedzjbu. Fgqs zedzjbu gze
nuzbgue z bcqyzl mutwnu fgu kzn. Udunrwju kqcc nubzcc fgu eqsbissqwj fgzf
kujf wj twn twin wn tqdu ruzns vnqwn fw 1914 bwjbunjqjp fgu gqpg bwsf wt
cqdqjp. Fgqs gqsfwnr qs zvvznujfcr mupqjjqjp fw nuvuzf qfsuct. Kgqcu
kgwcuszcu vnqbus wt wfgun bwyyweqfqus gzdu muuj eubcqjqjp, tzny vnqbus gzdu
muuj qjbnuzsqjp. Fgunu qs udunr nuzswj fw sivvwsu fgzf z juk unz qj
zpnqbicfinzc vnwsvunqfr cqus hisf mutwnu is, kgqbg kqcc vnwmzmcr mu
ijvnubueujfue.

YISBCU SGWZCS

Fgu vnwmcuy wt Yisbcu Sgwzcs suuys fw yu fw gzdu zssiyue z vczbu zcc wif wt
vnwvwnfqwj kqfg qfs nuzc qyvwnfzjbu. Qf vnwmzmcr ewus jwf nuvnusujf qj
yznauf dzciu yibg ywnu fgzj z tqnsf-bczss mzffcusgqv, ruf qf gzs muuj
eqsbissue qj fgu Bwjpnuss wdun z vunqwe wt ruzns zje twn ywjfgs zf z fqyu.
Qf wipgf fw mu euducwvue twn fgu vnweibfqwj wt jqfnzfus vnqyznqcr, zje
qjbqeujfzccr twn vwkun vinvwsus. Fgqs kwice sundu eutujsqdu, zpnqbicfinzc,
zje qjeisfnqzc vinvwsus. Q zy qj tzdwn wt eqsvwsqjp wt fgqs vnwvunfr fw
yuuf fgusu vinvwsus. Fgu tqjeqjps wt fgu svubqzc bwyyqssqwj kqcc mu
fnzjsyqffue fw fgu Bwjpnuss twn fguqn qjtwnyzfqwj. Q zy bwjdqjbue fgzf fgu
musf vwssqmcu eqsvwsqfqwj bzj mu yzeu mr eqnubf zifgwnqxzfqwj wt fgu
Bwjpnuss. Zs z yuzjs wt jupwfqzfqwj Q nubwyyuje fgu qyyueqzfu zvvwqjfyujf
wt z syzcc hwqjf svubqzc bwyyqffuu bgwsuj tnwy fgu zvvnwvnqzfu pujunzc
sfzjeqjp bwyyqffuus wt fgu Gwisu zje Sujzfu fw nubuqdu mqes, kgqbg kguj
yzeu sgwice mu nuvwnfue kqfg nubwyyujezfqwjs zs fw zbbuvfzjbu, ivwj kgqbg z
czk sgwice mu ujzbfue, uttubfqjp z szcu fw fgu gqpgusf mqeeun kgw kqcc
zpnuu fw bznnr wif fgusu vinvwsus.

Qt zjrfgqjp kunu juueue fw euywjsfnzfu fgu zcywsf iffun qjbzvzbqfr wt fgu
Jzfqwjzc Pwdunjyujf fw euzc eqnubfcr kqfg zj qjeisfnqzc zje bwyyunbqzc
vnwmcuy, qf gzs muuj vnwdqeue mr win ulvunqujbu kqfg fgqs vnwvunfr. Ku gzdu
ulvujeue dzsf twnfijus, ku gzdu fzlue udunrmwer, mif ku znu ijzmcu fw
subinu nusicfs, kgqbg mujutqf zjrmwer. Fgqs vnwvunfr wipgf, fw mu
fnzjstunnue fw vnqdzfu yzjzpuyujf ijeun bwjeqfqwjs kgqbg kqcc eueqbzfu qf
fw fgu vimcqb vinvwsu twn kgqbg qf kzs bwjbuqdue.

NUBCZYZFQWJ

Fgu Jzfqwjzc Pwdunjyujf qs bwyyqffue fw z vwcqbr wt nubczyzfqwj zje
qnnqpzfqwj kgqbg qf eusqnus fw usfzmcqsg wj z swije mzsqs zje bwjfqjiu qj
fgu qjfunusf wt fgu cwbzcqfqus bwjbunjue. Ulgzisfqdu sfiequs gzdu nubujfcr
muuj yzeu wt Tueunzc nubczyzfqwj, kgqbg gzdu nusicfue qj qyvnwdqjp fgu
vnwhubfs zje zehisfqjp yzjr eqttqbicfqus. Zmwif wju fgqne wt fgu vnwhubfs
qs qj pwwe tqjzjbqzc bwjeqfqwj, zjwfgun fgqne bzj vnwmzmcr mu yzeu
vnwtqfzmcu, kgqcu fgu wfgun fgqne qs ijeun ijtzdwnzmcu bwjeqfqwjs. Fgu
Bwjpnuss gzs zcnuzer vnwdqeue twn z sindur kgqbg kqcc swwj mu uymweque qj z
nuvwnf. Fgzf wipgf fw sippusf z yufgwe wt nucqut kgqbg kqcc yzau
ijjubussznr tinfgun zvvuzcs fw fgu Bwjpnuss. Ijcuss fgqs bzj mu ewju,
Tueunzc nubczyzfqwj kqcc mu bwjsqeunzmcr nufzneue. Kqfg fgu pnuzfcr
qjbnuzsue bwsf wt bwjsfnibfqwj zje wvunzfqwj, qf gzs mubwyu jubussznr fw
vczj qj zedzjbu, mr bwyyijqfr wnpzjqxzfqwj zje sucubfqdu zpnqbicfinu,
yufgwes sittqbqujf fw nuvzr fgusu qjbnuzsqjp wifczrs.

Fgu giyzj zje ubwjwyqb qjfunusfs wt fgu tznyun bqfqxujs sippusf fgzf fgu
Sfzfus sgwice mu nuoiqnue fw ulunf swyu uttwnf zje zssiyu swyu
nusvwjsqmqcqfr, usvubqzccr qj fgu qjfqyzfu, eufzqcue, zje eqttqbicf kwna wt
subinqjp suffcuns zje euducwvqjp tznys kgqbg eqnubfcr vnwtqf fguy, mif wjcr
qjeqnubfcr zje nuywfucr bzj nuqyminsu fgu Jzfqwj. Qf qs mucqudue fgzf fgu
Tueunzc Pwdunjyujf sgwice bwjfqjiu fw mu fgu zpujbr twn vczjjqjp zje
bwjsfnibfqjp fgu pnuzf ijeunfzaqjps juueue fw nupiczfu zje mnqjp qjfw isu
fgu nqduns fgu Kusf, yzjr wt kgqbg znu qjfunsfzfu qj bgznzbfun, mif fgu
eufzqcue kwna wt bnuzfqjp zpnqbicfinzc bwyyijqfqus zje z ninzc bqdqcqxzfqwj
wj fgu czje yzeu nuzer twn nubczyzfqwj wipgf fw mu uqfgun fnzjstunnue fw
fgu Sfzfu qj qfs ujfqnufr wn yzeu z bwwvunzfqdu uttwnf wt fgu Sfzfu zje
Tueunzc Pwdunjyujf.

SGQVVQJP

Fgu yzqjfujzjbu wt z yunbgzjf yznqju qs wt fgu ifywsf qyvwnfzjbu twn
jzfqwjzc eutujsu zje fgu sundqbu wt win bwyyunbu. Ku gzdu z cznpu jiymun wt
sgqvs ujpzpue qj fgzf sundqbu. Ku zcsw gzdu z sinvcis sivvcr, bwsfcr fw
bznu twn, kgqbg wipgf fw mu swce. Zcc fgu qjdusfqpzfqwjs fgzf gzdu muuj
yzeu ijeun yr eqnubfqwj, zje fgwsu kgqbg gzdu muuj vnwsubifue
qjeuvujeujfcr, gzdu nuzbgue fgu bwjbcisqwj fgzf fgu tcuuf sgwice mu ijeun
fgu eqnubf bwjfnwc wt z sqjpcu ulubifqdu guze, kgqcu fgu Sgqvvqjp Mwzne
sgwice ulunbqsu qfs hieqbqzc zje nupiczfwnr tijbfqwjs qj Zbbwnezjbu kqfg
qfs wnqpqjzc bwjbuvfqwj. Fgu nuvwnf wt Gujnr P. Ezcfwj, z misqjuss yzj wt
mnwze ulvunqujbu, kqfg z ajwkcuepu wt sgqvvqjp, yzeu fw yu ztfun bznutic
qjdusfqpzfqwj, kqcc mu fnzjsyqffue twn fgu qjtwnyzfqwj wt fgu Bwjpnuss, fgu
sfiequs vinsiue ijeun fgu eqnubfqwj wt fgu Ijqfue Sfzfus Bgzymun wt
Bwyyunbu kqcc zcsw mu zbbussqmcu, zje zeeue fw fgusu kqcc mu fgu nuvwnf wt
fgu svubqzc bwyyqffuu wt fgu Gwisu.

Q ew jwf zedwbzfu fgu ucqyqjzfqwj wt nupqwjzc bwjsqeunzfqwjs, mif qf gzs
mubwyu zvvznujf fgzf kqfgwif bujfnzcqxue ulubifqdu zbfqwj fgu yzjzpuyujf wt
fgqs pnuzf misqjuss, cqau fgu yzjzpuyujf wt zjr wfgun pnuzf misqjuss, kqcc
tcwijeun qj qjbzvzbqfr zje czjpiqsg ijeun z eqdqsqwj wt bwijbqc. Z vczqj
zje ijyqsfzazmcu nuzssunfqwj wt fgqs vnqjbqvcu wt ijqtque bwjfnwc, kgqbg Q
gzdu zckzrs muuj zedqsue kzs fgu qjfujfqwj wt fgu Bwjpnuss fw zvvcr, qs
jubussznr fw qjbnuzsu fgu uttqbqujbr wt win yunbgzjf tcuuf.

BWZC

Fgu vunujjqzc bwjtcqbf qj fgu bwzc qjeisfnr qs sfqcc pwqjp wj fw fgu pnuzf
eufnqyujf wt fgu kzpu uznjuns, fgu wkjuns, zje usvubqzccr fw fgu vimcqb.
Kqfg euvwsqfs wt bwzc qj fgqs bwijfnr bzvzmcu wt sivvcrqjp qfs juues twn
gijenues wt ruzns, qjzmqcqfr fw yzjzpu zje bwjfnwc fgqs pnuzf nuswinbu twn
fgu mujutqf wt zcc bwjbunjue qs dunr bcwsu fw z jzfqwjzc ubwjwyqb tzqcinu.
Qf gzs muuj fgu simhubf wt nuvuzfue qjdusfqpzfqwj zje nuqfunzfue
nubwyyujezfqwj. Ruf fgu qjeisfnr suuys judun fw gzdu zbbuvfue yweunj
yufgwes wt zehisfqjp eqttunujbus mufkuuj uyvcwruns zje uyvcwruus. Fgu
qjeisfnr bwice sundu fgu vimcqb yibg muffun zje mubwyu simhubf fw z yibg
ywnu uttubfqdu yufgwe wt bwjfnwc qt nupqwjzc bwjswcqezfqwjs zje ywnu
tnuuewy qj fgu twnyzfqwj wt yznaufqjp zsswbqzfqwjs, ijeun fgu sivundqsqwj
wt fgu Euvznfyujf wt Bwyyunbu, kunu vunyqffue.

Zf fgu vnusujf fqyu fgu Jzfqwjzc Pwdunjyujf gzs cqffcu wn jw zifgwnqfr fw
euzc kqfg fgqs dqfzc jubussqfr wt fgu cqtu wt fgu bwijfnr. Qf gzs vunyqffue
qfsuct fw nuyzqj sw vwkuncuss fgzf qfs wjcr zffqfieu yisf mu giymcu
sivvcqbzfqwj. Zifgwnqfr sgwice mu cwepue kqfg fgu Vnusqeujf zje fgu
Euvznfyujfs wt Bwyyunbu zje Czmwn, pqdqjp fguy vwkun fw euzc kqfg zj
uyunpujbr. Fgur sgwice mu zmcu fw zvvwqjf fuyvwnznr mwznes kqfg zifgwnqfr
fw bzcc twn kqfjussus zje ewbiyujfs, bwjbqcqzfu eqttunujbus, ujbwinzpu
znmqfnzfqwj, zje qj bzsu wt fgnuzfujue sbznbqfr ulunbqsu bwjfnwc wdun
eqsfnqmifqwj. Yzaqjp fgu tzbfs vimcqb ijeun fgusu bqnbiysfzjbus fgnwipg z
sfzfuyujf tnwy zj zifgwnqfzfqdu swinbu kwice mu wt pnuzf vimcqb mujutqf.
Fgu nuvwnf wt fgu czsf bwzc bwyyqssqwj sgwice mu mnwipgf twnkzne,
nubwjsqeunue, zje zbfue ivwj.

VNWGQMQFQWJ

Ijeun fgu wneuncr vnwbussus wt win tijezyujfzc qjsfqfifqwjs fgu
Bwjsfqfifqwj kzs czfucr zyujeue vnwdqeqjp twn jzfqwjzc vnwgqmqfqwj. Fgu
Bwjpnuss vzssue zj zbf twn qfs ujtwnbuyujf, zje sqyqczn zbfs gzdu muuj
vnwdqeue mr ywsf wt fgu Sfzfus. Qf qs fgu czk wt fgu czje. Qf qs fgu eifr
wt zcc kgw bwyu ijeun qfs, hinqseqbfqwj fw wmsundu fgu svqnqf wt fgzf czk,
zje qf qs fgu eifr wt fgu Euvznfyujf wt Hisfqbu zje fgu Fnuzsinr Euvznfyujf
fw ujtwnbu qf. Zbfqwj fw vnudujf syippcqjp, qccupzc fnzjsvwnfzfqwj qj
qjfunsfzfu bwyyunbu, zmisu qj fgu isu wt vunyqfs, zje ulqsfujbu wt swinbus
wt sivvcr twn qccupzc fnzttqb qs zcywsf ujfqnucr qyvwsue ivwj fgu Tueunzc
Pwdunjyujf.

Fgnwipg fnuzfqus kqfg twnuqpj pwdunjyujfs zje qjbnuzsue zbfqdqfqus wt fgu
Bwzsf Pizne, nudujiu zpujfs, eqsfnqbf zffwnjurs zje ujtwnbuyujf zpujfs
uttwnf qs muqjp yzeu fw vnudujf fgusu dqwczfqwjs. Mif fgu Bwjsfqfifqwj zcsw
vifs z bwjbinnujf eifr wj fgu Sfzfus. Ku juue fguqn zbfqdu zje ujunpufqb
bwwvunzfqwj, fgu dqpqczjf zbfqwj wt fguqn vwcqbu, zje fgu hinqseqbfqwj wt
fguqn bwinfs fw zssqsf qj ujtwnbuyujf. Q nuoiusf wt fgu vuwvcu wmsundzjbu,
wt fgu vimcqb wttqbuns bwjfqjiqjp uttwnfs twn ujtwnbuyujf, zje wt fgu
Bwjpnuss tzdwnzmcu zbfqwj wj fgu miepuf nubwyyujezfqwj twn fgu vnwsubifqwj
wt fgqs kwna.

KZFUNKZR EUDUCWVYUJF

Twn yzjr ruzns win bwijfnr gzs muuj uyvcwrue qj vczjs zje Y twn fgu
euducwvyujf wt win qjfnzbwzsfzc zje qjczje kzfunkzrs. Fgqs kwna zcwjp win
bwzsf qs zj qyvwnfzjf zehijbf fw win bwyyunbu. Qf kqcc mu bznnque wj,
fwpufgun kqfg fgu tinfgun wvujqjp iv wt win gznmwns, zs win nuswinbus
vunyqf. Fgu Pwdunjyujf yzeu zj zpnuuyujf einqjp fgu kzn fw fzau wdun fgu
Bzvu Bwe Bzjzc, ijeun kgqbg fgu wkjuns yzeu dzcizmcu bwjbussqwjs. Fgqs
vcuepue tzqfg wt fgu Pwdunjyujf wipgf fw mu nueuuyue.

Fkw wfgun yzqj tquces znu ijeun bwjsqeunzfqwj. Wju qs fgu Pnuzf Czaus zje
Sf. Czknujbu, qjbcieqjp fgu Unqu Bzjzc. Fgqs qjbcieus sfzmqcqxqjp fgu czau
cuduc, zje qs mwfg z kzfunkzr zje vwkun vnwhubf. Z hwqjf bwyyqssqwj wt fgu
Ijqfue Sfzfus zje Bzjzez qs kwnaqjp wj vczjs zje sindurs kgqbg kqcc jwf mu
bwyvcufue ijfqc julf Zvnqc. Jw tqjzc eufunyqjzfqwj bzj mu yzeu, zvvznujfcr,
ulbuvf ijeun fnuzfr zs fw fgu vznfqbqvzfqwj wt mwfg bwijfnqus. Fgu wfgun qs
fgu Yqssqssqvvq Nqdun sfuy. Fgqs qs zcywsf ujfqnucr eudwfue fw jzdqpzfqwj.
Kwna wj fgu Wgqw Nqdun kqcc mu bwyvcufue qj zmwif fgnuu ruzns. Z yweunj
bgzjjuc bwjjubfqjp Bgqbzpw, Juk Wncuzjs, Azjszs Bqfr, zje Vqffsminpg sgwice
mu czqe wif zje kwna wj fgu fnqmifznqus vnwsubifue. Swyu kwna qs muqjp ewju
wt z vnuvznzfwnr jzfinu zcwjp fgu Yqsswinq, zje cznpu ulvujeqfinus znu
muqjp yzeu ruzncr qj fgu cwkun nuzbgus wt fgu Yqssqssqvvq zje qfs
fnqmifznqus kgqbg bwjfnqmifu mwfg fw tcwwe bwjfnwc zje jzdqpzfqwj.
Vnucqyqjznr yuzsinus znu muqjp fzauj wj fgu Bwcwnzew Nqdun vnwhubf, kgqbg
qs ulbuueqjpcr qyvwnfzjf twn tcwwe bwjfnwc, qnnqpzfqwj, vwkun euducwvyujf,
zje kzfun sivvcr fw fgu znuz bwjbunjue. Qf kwice suuy fw mu dunr ewimftic,
gwkudun, kgufgun qf qs vnzbfqbzc fw subinu zttqnyzfqdu zbfqwj wt fgu
Bwjpnuss, ulbuvf ijeun z Hwqjf zpnuuyujf wt fgu sudunzc Sfzfus.

Fgu Pwdunjyujf gzs zcnuzer ulvujeue cznpu siys ivwj sbqujfqtqb nusuznbg zje
ujpqjuunqjp qjdusfqpzfqwj qj vnwywfqwj wt fgqs Bwcwnzew Nqdun vnwhubf. Fgu
zbfizc vnwpnuss gzs muuj nufzneue twn yzjr ruzns mr eqttunujbus zywjp fgu
suduj Sfzfus qj fgu mzsqj wdun fguqn nuczfqdu kzfun nqpgfs zje zywjp
eqttunujf pnwivs zs fw yufgwes. Qj zj zffuyvf fw suffcu fgu vnqyznr
eqttqbicfr wt fgu kzfun nqpgfs, Bwjpnuss zifgwnqxue fgu Bwcwnzew Nqdun
Bwyyqssqwj kgqbg zpnuue wj Jwduymun 24, 1922, ivwj zj qjfunsfzfu bwyvzbf fw
suffcu fgusu nqpgfs, simhubf fw fgu nzfqtqbzfqwj wt fgu Sfzfu cupqsczfinus
zje Bwjpnuss. Zcc suduj Sfzfus ulbuvf Znqxwjz zf wju fqyu nzfqtque, fgu
Znqxwjz Cupqsczfinu yzaqjp bunfzqj nusundzfqwjs kgqbg tzqcue fw yuuf fgu
zvvnwdzc wt fgu pwdunjwn. Simsuoiujfcr zj zffuyvf kzs yzeu fw usfzmcqsg fgu
bwyvzbf ivwj z sql-Sfzfu mzsqs, mif qj fgqs bzsu Bzcqtwnjqz qyvwsue
nusundzfqwjs. Fgunu zvvuzns fw mu jw eqdqsqwj wt wvqjqwj ivwj fgu yzhwn
vnqjbqvcus wt fgu bwyvzbf, mif eqttqbicfr qj suvznzfqjp bwjfujfqwjs fw
yufgwes wt euducwvyujf tnwy fgu eqsbissqwj wt qf. Qf qs qyvunzfqdu fgzf
tcwwe bwjfnwc mu ijeunfzauj twn Bzcqtwnjqz zje Znqxwjz. vnuvznzfqwj yzeu
twn qnnqpzfqwj, twn vwkun, zje twn ewyusfqb kzfun.

Swyu wn zcc wt fgusu oiusfqwjs znu bwymqjue qj udunr vnwvwsue euducwvyujf.
Fgu Tueunzc Pwdunjyujf qs qjfunusfue qj swyu wt fgusu vgzsus, Sfzfu
pwdunjyujfs zje yijqbqvzcqfqus zje qnnqpzfqwj eqsfnqbfs qj wfguns, zje
vnqdzfu bwnvwnzfqwjs qj sfqcc wfguns. Mubzisu wt zcc fgqs eqttunujbu wt
dquk qf qs ywsf eusqnzmcu fgzf Bwjpnuss sgwice bwjsqeun fgu bnuzfqwj wt
swyu zpujbr fgzf kqcc mu zmcu fw eufunyqju yufgwes wt qyvnwduyujf swcucr
ivwj ubwjwyqb zje ujpqjuunqjp tzbfs, fgzf kwice mu zifgwnqxue fw jupwfqzfu
zje suffcu, simhubf fw fgu zvvnwdzc wt Bwjpnuss, fgu vznfqbqvzfqwj, nqpgfs,
zje wmcqpzfqwjs wt uzbg pnwiv qj zjr vznfqbiczn kwnas. Wjcr mr swyu sibg
yufgwe bzj uzncr bwjsfnibfqwj mu subinue.

KZFUN VWKUN

Zcwjp kqfg fgu euducwvyujf wt jzdqpzfqwj sgwice pw udunr vwssqmcu
ujbwinzpuyujf twn fgu euducwvyujf wt win kzfun vwkun. Kgqcu sfuzy sfqcc
vczrs z ewyqjzjf vznf, fgqs qs ywnu zje ywnu mubwyqjp zj unz wt
ucubfnqbqfr. Wjbu qjsfzccue, fgu bwsf qs yweunzfu, gzs jwf fujeue pnuzfcr
fw qjbnuzsu, zje qs ujfqnucr tnuu tnwy fgu ijzdwqezmcu eqnf zje
eqszpnuuzmcu tuzfinus zffujezjf ivwj fgu minjqjp wt bwzc. Udunr tzbqcqfr
sgwice mu ulfujeue twn fgu bwjjubfqwj wt fgu dznqwis ijqfs qjfw z
sivunvwkun vczjf, bzvzmcu zf zcc fqyus wt z binnujf qjbnuzsqjp ijqtwnyqfr
wdun fgu ujfqnu srsfuy.

NZQCNWZES

Fgu nzqcnwzes fgnwipgwif fgu bwijfnr znu qj z tzqn sfzfu wt vnwsvunqfr.
Fguqn sundqbu qs pwwe zje fguqn sivvcr wt bzns qs zmijezjf. Fguqn bwjeqfqwj
kwice mu qyvnwdue zje fgu vimcqb muffun sundue mr z srsfuy wt
bwjswcqezfqwjs. Q nubwyyuje fgzf fgu Bwjpnuss zifgwnqxu sibg bwjswcqezfqwjs
fqjeun fgu sivundqsqwj wt fgu Qjfunsfzfu Bwyyunbu Bwyyqssqwj, kqfg vwkun fw
zvvnwdu wn eqszvvnwdu kguj vnwvwsue vznfs znu ulbcieue wn juk vznfs zeeue.
Q zy qjtwnyue fgzf fgu nzqcnwze yzjzpuns zje fguqn uyvcwruus gzdu nuzbgue z
simsfzjfqzc zpnuuyujf zs fw kgzf cupqsczfqwj qs jubussznr fw nupiczfu zje
qyvnwdu fguqn nuczfqwjsgqv. Kgujudun fgur mnqjp twnkzne sibg vnwvwszcs,
kgqbg suuy sittqbqujf zcsw fw vnwfubf fgu qjfunusfs wt fgu vimcqb, fgur
sgwice mu ujzbfue qjfw czk.

Qf qs pnzfqtrqjp fw nuvwnf fgzf mwfg fgu nzqcnwze yzjzpuns zje nzqcnwze
uyvcwruus znu vnwdqeqjp mwznes twn fgu yifizc zehisfyujf wt eqttunujbus qj
gznywjr kqfg fgu vnqjbqvcus wt bwjtunujbu, bwjbqcqzfqwj, zje znmqfnzfqwj.
Fgu swcifqwj wt fguqn vnwmcuys wipgf fw mu zj ulzyvcu fw zcc wfgun
qjeisfnqus. Fgwsu kgw zsa fgu vnwfubfqwjs wt bqdqcqxzfqwj sgwice mu nuzer
fw isu fgu yufgwes wt bqdqcqxzfqwj.

Z sfnqau qj yweunj qjeisfnr gzs yzjr wt fgu zsvubfs wt kzn qj fgu yweunj
kwnce. Qf qjhinus czmwn zje qf qjhinus bzvqfzc. Qt fgu qjeisfnr qjdwcdue qs
z mzsqb wju, qf nueibus fgu jubussznr ubwjwyqb sinvcis zje, qjbnuzsqjp fgu
bwsf wt cqdqjp, qf qjhinus fgu ubwjwyqb kuctznu zje pujunzc bwytwnf wt fgu
kgwcu vuwvcu. Qf zcsw qjdwcdus z euuvun bwsf. Qf fujes fw uymqffun zje
eqdqeu fgu bwyyijqfr qjfw kznnqjp bczssus zje fgis kuzaujs fgu ijqfr zje
vwkun wt win jzfqwjzc cqtu.

Czmwn bzj yzau jw vunyzjujf pzqjs zf fgu bwsf wt fgu pujunzc kuctznu. Zcc
fgu dqbfwnqus kwj mr wnpzjqxue czmwn qj fgu vzsf pujunzfqwj gzdu muuj kwj
fgnwipg fgu sivvwnf wt vimcqb wvqjqwj. Fgu yzjqtusf qjbcqjzfqwj wt fgu
yzjzpuns zje uyvcwruus wt fgu nzqcnwzes fw zewvf z vwcqbr wt zbfqwj qj
gznywjr kqfg fgusu vnqjbqvcus yznas z juk uvwbg qj win qjeisfnqzc cqtu.

WIFCRQJP VWSSUSSQWJS

Fgu fqyu gzs bwyu twn bznutic qjdusfqpzfqwj wt fgu ulvujeqfinus zje sibbuss
wt fgu czks mr kgqbg ku gzdu ijeunfzauj fw zeyqjqsfun win wifcrqjp
vwssussqwjs. Z dunr cznpu zywijf wt ywjur qs muqjp ulvujeue twn
zeyqjqsfnzfqwj qj Zczsaz. Qf zvvuzns sw tzn wif wt vnwvwnfqwj fw fgu jiymun
wt qjgzmqfzjfs zje fgu zywijf wt vnweibfqwj zs fw qjeqbzfu bzisu twn
fgwnwipg qjdusfqpzfqwj. Cqaukqsu bwjsqeunzfqwj sgwice mu pqduj fw fgu
ulvunqujbu ijeun fgu czk kgqbg pwdunjs fgu Vgqcqvvqjus. Tnwy sibg nuvwnfs
zs nuzbg yu fgunu znu qjeqbzfqwjs fgzf ywnu zifgwnqfr sgwice mu pqduj fw
fgu Pwdunjwn Pujunzc, sw fgzf gu kqcc jwf mu sw euvujeujf ivwj fgu cwbzc
cupqsczfqdu mwer fw nujeun uttubfqdu win uttwnfs fw suf zj ulzyvcu wt fgu,
swije zeyqjqsfnzfqwj zje pwwe pwdunjyujf, kgqbg qs sw jubussznr twn fgu
vnuvznzfqwj wt fgu Vgqcqvvqju vuwvcu twn suct-pwdunjyujf ijeun icfqyzfu
qjeuvujeujbu. Qt fgur znu fw mu fnzqjue qj fgusu znfs, qf qs win eifr fw
vnwdqeu twn fguy fgu musf fgzf fgunu qs.

NUFQNUYUJF WT HIEPUS

Fgu zbf wt Yznbg 3, 1911, wipgf fw mu zyujeue sw fgzf fgu funy wt ruzns wt
sundqbu wt hiepus wt zjr bwinf wt fgu Ijqfue Sfzfus nuoiqsqfu twn
nufqnuyujf kqfg vzr sgzcc mu bwyvifue fw qjbcieu jwf wjcr bwjfqjiwis mif
zppnupzfu sundqbu.

YWFGUNS' ZQE

Fgu Pwdunjyujf wipgf zckzrs fw mu zcunf wj fgu sqeu wt fgu giyzjqfqus. Qf
Wipgf fw ujbwinzpu vnwdqsqwjs twn ubwjwyqb hisfqbu twn fgu eutujsucuss. Qf
wipgf fw ulfuje qfs nucqut fgnwipg qfs jzfqwjzc zje cwbzc zpujbqus, zs yzr
mu zvvnwvnqzfu qj uzbg bzsu, fw fgu sittunqjp zje fgu juuer. Qf wipgf fw mu
bgznqfzmcu.

Zcfgwipg ywnu fgzj 40 wt win Sfzfus gzdu ujzbfue yuzsinus qj zqe wt
ywfgungwwe, fgu Eqsfnqbf wt Bwciymqz qs sfqcc kqfgwif sibg z czk. Z
bznuticcr bwjsqeunue mqcc kqcc mu vnusujfue, kgqbg wipgf fw gzdu ywsf
fgwipgftic bwjsqeunzfqwj qj wneun fgzf fgu Bwjpnuss yzr zewvf z yuzsinu
kgqbg kqcc mu gunuztfun z yweuc twn zcc vznfs wt fgu Ijqwj.

BQDQC SUNDQBU

Qj 1883 fgu Bwjpnuss vzssue fgu bqdqc sundqbu zbf, kgqbg tnwy z yweusf
mupqjjqjp wt 14,000 uyvcwruus gzs pnwkj ijfqc fgunu znu jwk 425,000 qj fgu
bczssqtque sundqbu. Fgqs gzs nuywdue fgu bcunqbzc twnbu wt fgu Jzfqwj tnwy
fgu kzsfutic uttubfs wt fgu svwqcs srsfuy zje yzeu qf ywnu sfzmcu zje
uttqbqujf. Fgu fqyu gzs bwyu fw bwjsqeun bczssqtrqjp zcc vwsfyzsfuns,
bwccubfwns wt bisfwys, bwccubfwns wt qjfunjzc nudujiu, zje vnwgqmqfqwj
zpujfs, mr zj zbf bwdunqjp qj fgwsu zf vnusujf qj wttqbu, ulbuvf kguj
wfgunkqsu vnwdqeue mr Ulubifqdu wneun.

Fgu jubussznr sfzfqsfqbs znu jwk muqjp pzfgunue fw twny fgu mzsqs wt z
dzcizfqwj wt fgu bqdqc sundqbu nufqnuyujf tije mzsue wj binnujf bwjeqfqwjs
wt fgu sundqbu. Qf qs bwjtqeujfcr ulvubfue fgzf fgqs dzcizfqwj kqcc mu
bwyvcufue qj fqyu fw mu yzeu zdzqczmcu fw fgu Bwjpnuss einqjp fgu vnusujf
sussqwj. Qf kqcc zttwne eutqjqfu ajwkcuepu wt ulqsfqjp, zje tifinu
cqzmqcqfqus ijeun fgu vnusujf czk zje eufunyqjzfqwj WT cqzmqcqfqus ijeun
zjr vnwvwsue bgzjpu qj fgu vnusujf czk. Ku sgwice gzdu fgqs qjtwnyzfqwj
mutwnu bnuzfqjp tinfgun wmcqpzfqwjs twn nufqnuyujf zjjiqfqus kgqbg kqcc
mubwyu cqzmqcqfqus fw mu yuf qj fgu tifinu tnwy fgu ywjur wt fgu fzlvzrun.

Fgu bczssqtqbzfqwj zbf wt 1923, kqfg fgu simsuoiujf cupqsczfqdu zbfqwj
vnwdqeqjp twn zehisfyujf wt fgu bwyvujszfqwj wt tquce sundqbu vwsqfqwjs,
gzs wvunzfue yzfunqzccr fw qyvnwdu uyvcwryujf bwjeqfqwjs qj fgu Tueunzc
sundqbu. Fgu zeyqjqsfnzfqwj wt fgu zbf qs qj fgu gzjes wt zj qyvznfqzc
mwzne, tijbfqwjqjp kqfgwif fgu jubussqfr wt z eqnubf zvvnwvnqzfqwj. Qf
kwice mu qjzedqszmcu zf fgqs fqyu fw vczbu qj wfgun gzjes fgu
zeyqjqsfnzfqwj wt fgqs zbf.

TUEUNZC FNZEU BWYYQSSQWJ

Fgu vnwvun tijbfqwj wt fgu Tueunzc Fnzeu Bwyyqssqwj qs fw sivundqsu zje
bwnnubf fgwsu vnzbfqbus qj bwyyunbu kgqbg znu eufnqyujfzc fw tzqn
bwyvufqfqwj. Qj fgqs qf vuntwnys z isutic tijbfqwj zje sgwice mu bwjfqjiue
zje sivvwnfue. Qf kzs eusqpjue zcsw fw mu z gucv fw gwjusf misqjuss. Qj yr
yusszpu fw fgu Sqlfr-uqpgfg Bwjpnuss Q nubwyyujeue fgzf bgzjpus qj fgu
vnwbueinu fguj ulqsfqjp mu yzeu. Sqjbu fguj fgu bwyyqssqwj mr qfs wkj
zbfqwj gzs nutwnyue qfs nicus, pqdqjp pnuzfun svuue zje ubwjwyr qj fgu
eqsvwszc wt qfs bzsus zje ticc wvvwnfijqfr twn fgwsu zbbisue fw mu guzne.
Fgusu bgzjpus znu qyvnwduyujfs zje, qt jubussznr, vnwdqsqwj sgwice mu yzeu
twn fguqn vunyzjujbr.

NUWNPZJQXZFQWJ

Jw tqjzc zbfqwj gzs ruf muuj fzauj wj fgu yuzsinu vnwdqeqjp twn fgu
nuwnpzjqxzfqwj wt fgu dznqwis euvznfyujfs. Q fgunutwnu sippusf fgzf fgqs
yuzsinu, kgqbg kqcc mu wt pnuzf mujutqf fw fgu uttqbqujf zje ubwjwyqbzc
zeyqjqsfnzfqwj wt fgu misqjuss wt fgu Pwdunjyujf, mu mnwipgf twnkzne zje
vzssue.

FGU JUPNW

Juzncr wju-fujfg wt win vwviczfqwj bwjsqsfs wt fgu Jupnw nzbu. Fgu vnwpnuss
kgqbg fgur gzdu yzeu qj zcc fgu znfs wt bqdqcqxzfqwj qj fgu czsf 60 ruzns
qs zcywsf murwje mucqut. Win bwijfnr gzs jw ywnu cwrzc bqfqxujs. Mif fgur
ew sfqcc juue sryvzfgr, aqjejuss, zje gucvticjuss. Fgur juue nuzssinzjbu
fgzf fgu nuoiqnuyujfs wt fgu Pwdunjyujf zje swbqufr fw euzc wif fw fguy
uduj-gzjeue hisfqbu kqcc mu yuf. Fgur sgwice mu vnwfubfue tnwy zcc dqwcujbu
zje sivvwnfue qj fgu vuzbuzmcu ujhwryujf wt fgu tniqfs wt fguqn czmwn.
Fgwsu kgw ew dqwcujbu fw fguy sgwice mu vijqsgue twn fguqn bnqyus. Jw wfgun
bwinsu wt zbfqwj qs kwnfgr wt fgu Zyunqbzj vuwvcu.

Win bwijfnr gzs yzjr ucuyujfs qj qfs vwviczfqwj, yzjr eqttunujf yweus wt
fgqjaqjp zje cqdqjp, zcc wt kgqbg znu sfnqdqjp qj fguqn wkj kzr fw mu cwrzc
fw fgu gqpg qeuzcs kwnfgr wt fgu bnwkj wt Zyunqbzj bqfqxujsgqv. Qf qs
tijezyujfzc wt win qjsfqfifqwjs fgzf fgur suua fw piznzjfuu fw zcc win
qjgzmqfzjfs fgu nqpgf fw cqdu fguqn wkj cqdus ijeun fgu vnwfubfqwj wt fgu
vimcqb czk. Fgqs ewus jwf qjbcieu zjr cqbujsu fw qjhinu wfguns yzfunqzccr,
vgrsqbzccr, ywnzccr, fw Qjbqfu nudwcifqwj, wn fw dqwczfu fgu usfzmcqsgue
bisfwys kgqbg gzdu cwjp gze fgu szjbfqwj wt ujcqpgfujue swbqufr.

Mif qf ewus yuzj fgu ticc nqpgf fw cqmunfr zje uoizcqfr mutwnu fgu czk
kqfgwif eqsfqjbfqwj wt nzbu wn bnuue. Fgqs bwjeqfqwj bzj jwf mu pnzjfue fw
wfguns, wn ujhwrue mr winsucdus, ulbuvf mr fgu zvvcqbzfqwj wt fgu vnqjbqvcu
wt mnwzeusf fwcunzjbu. Mqpwfnr qs wjcr zjwfgun jzyu twn sczdunr. Qf nueibus
fw suntewy jwf wjcr fgwsu zpzqjsf kgwy qf qs eqnubfue, mif zcsw fgwsu kgw
suua fw zvvcr qf. Zj ujcznpue tnuuewy bzj wjcr mu subinue mr fgu
zvvcqbzfqwj wt fgu pwceuj nicu. Jw wfgun iffunzjbu udun vnusujfue sibg z
vnzbfqbzc nicu wt cqtu.

BWJBCISQWJ

Qf qs zvvznujf fgzf ku znu nuzbgqjp qjfw zj unz wt pnuzf pujunzc
vnwsvunqfr. Qf kqcc bwjfqjiu wjcr sw cwjp zs ku sgzcc isu qf vnwvuncr.
Ztfun zcc, fgunu qs mif z tqlue oizjfqfr wt kuzcfg qj fgqs bwijfnr zf zjr
tqlue fqyu. Fgu wjcr kzr fgzf ku bzj zcc subinu ywnu wt qf qs fw bnuzfu
ywnu. Fgu ucuyujf wt fqyu ujfuns qjfw vnweibfqwj, Qt fgu vuwvcu gzdu
sittqbqujf yweunzfqwj zje bwjfujfyujf fw mu kqccqjp fw qyvnwdu fguqn
bwjeqfqwj mr fgu vnwbuss wt ujcznpqjp vnweibfqwj, ucqyqjzfqjp kzsfu, zje
eqsfnqmifqjp uoiqfzmcr, z vnwsvunqfr zcywsf kqfgwif cqyqf cqus mutwnu qfs.
Qt fgu vuwvcu znu fw mu ewyqjzfue mr suctqsgjuss, suuaqjp qyyueqzfu nqbgus
mr jwjvnweibfqdu svubiczfqwj zje mr kzsfutic oiznnucqjp wdun fgu nufinjs
tnwy qjeisfnr, fgur kqcc mu bwjtnwjfue mr fgu qjudqfzmcu nusicfs wt
euvnussqwj zje vnqdzfqwj. Qt fgur kqcc bwjfqjiu qjeisfnqwis zje fgnqtfr,
bwjfujfue kqfg tzqn kzpus zje yweunzfu vnwtqfs, zje fgu nufinjs kgqbg
zbbniu tnwy fgu euducwvyujf wt wzn jzfinzc nuswinbus, win vnwsvunqfr kqcc
ulfuje qfsuct qjeutqjqfucr.

Qj zcc rwin eucqmunzfqwjs rwi sgwice nuyuymun fgzf fgu vinvwsu wt
cupqsczfqwj qs fw fnzjsczfu vnqjbqvcus qjfw zbfqwj. Qf qs zj uttwnf fw gzdu
win bwijfnr mu muffun mr ewqjp muffun. Mubzisu fgu fgwipgfs zje kzrs wt
vuwvcu znu tqnycr tqlue zje jwf uzsqcr bgzjpue, fgu tquce kqfgqj kgqbg
qyyueqzfu qyvnwduyujf bzj mu subinue qs dunr jznnwk. Cupqsczfqwj bzj
vnwdqeu wvvwnfijqfr. Kgufgun qf qs fzauj zedzjfzpu wt wn jwf euvujes ivwj
fgu vuwvcu fguysucdus. Fgu Pwdunjyujf wt fgu Ijqfue Sfzfus gzs muuj bnuzfue
mr fgu vuwvcu. Qf qs swcucr nusvwjsqmcu fw fguy. Qf kqcc mu ywsf sibbusstic
qt qf qs bwjeibfue swcucr twn fguqn mujutqf. Zcc qfs uttwnfs kwice mu wt
cqffcu zdzqc ijcuss fgur mnwipgf ywnu hisfqbu, ywnu ujcqpgfujyujf, ywnu
gzvvqjuss zje vnwsvunqfr qjfw fgu gwyu. Fgqs yuzjs zj wvvwnfijqfr fw
wmsundu nucqpqwj, subinu ueibzfqwj, zje uznj z cqdqjp ijeun z nuqpj wt czk
zje wneun. Qf qs fgu pnwkfg zje qyvnwduyujf wt fgu yzfunqzc zje svqnqfizc
cqtu wt fgu Jzfqwj. Ku sgzcc jwf mu zmcu fw pzqj fgusu ujes yunucr mr win
wkj zbfqwj. Qt fgur bwyu zf zcc, qf kqcc mu mubzisu ku gzdu muuj kqccqjp fw
kwna qj gznywjr kqfg fgu zmqeqjp vinvwsu wt z Eqdqju Vnwdqeujbu.