Vm vyw Gmabcwii mo vyw Tanvwl Ivevwi:

Vyw mxwanab mo vyni awk fwec rtiv ecmtiw na ti ejj bcevwotj vyeapi vm e
pnal Xcmdnlwagw kymiw xcmvwgvnma yei swwa wdwc xcwiwav eal kymiw smtavf yei
swwa reanomjl eal estaleav. Vyw Ivevw mo vyw Tanma vmlef lwrmaivcevwi kyev
gea sw eggmrxjniywl talwc Bml sf e ocww xwmxjw; sf vywnc dninma, vywnc
talwcivealnab mo aevnmaej xcmsjwri, vywnc nanvnevndw, vywnc iwjo-cwjneagw,
vywnc gexegnvf omc kmcp--eal sf vywnc knjjnabawii vm iegcnongw kywawdwc
iegcnongw ni awwlwl.

Na vyw xeiv vycww fweci, cwixmalnab vm kyev mtc xwmxjw keav vywnc
Bmdwcarwav vm lm, vyw Gmabcwii eal vyw Whwgtvndw yedw lmaw rtgy na stnjlnab
e ivcmabwc, swvvwc Erwcnge. Vywcw yei swwa scmel xcmbcwii na omivwcnab vyw
wawcbnwi mo mtc xwmxjw, na xcmdnlnab bcwevwc mxxmcvtanvf omc vyw
ievnioegvnma mo vywnc awwli, eal na otjonjjnab vywnc lwreali omc vyw
ivcwabvy eal iwgtcnvf mo vyw Cwxtsjng.

Mtc gmtavcf ni ev xwegw. Mtc iwgtcnvf xmivtcw gmrreali cwixwgv. E ixncnvtej
dnbmc recpi mtc aevnmaej jnow. Mtc wgmamrf, exxcmegynab vyw 400 snjjnma
lmjjec recp, ni ev ea taxecejjwjwl jwdwj mo xcmixwcnvf. Vyw aevnmaej nagmrw
ni rmcw knlwjf eal oencjf lnivcnstvwl vyea wdwc swomcw. Vyw atrswc mo
Erwcngeai ev kmcp yei cwegywl ea ejj-vnrw ynby. Ei e xwmxjw, kw ecw
egynwdnab wdwc ynbywc ivealecli mo jndnab--wecanab rmcw, xcmltgnab rmcw,
gmaitrnab rmcw, stnjlnab rmcw eal nadwivnab rmcw vyea wdwc swomcw.

Dncvtejjf ejj iwgvmci mo mtc imgnwvf ecw iyecnab na vywiw bmml vnrwi. Mtc
oecr oernjnwi, no kw egv kniwjf, nrebnaevndwjf eal xcmrxvjf vm ivcwabvywa
mtc xcwiwav oecr xcmbceri, gea ejim jmmp omckecl vm iyecnab wutnvesjf na
vyw xcmixwcnvf vywf yedw ywjxwl vm gcwevw.

Kec na Pmcwe walwl vkm eal e yejo fweci ebm. Vyw gmjjwgvndw iwgtcnvf ifivwr
yei swwa xmkwcotjjf ivcwabvywawl. Mtc lwowaiwi yedw swwa cwnaomcgwl ev
iyecxjf cwltgwl gmivi. Xcmbceri vm whxeal kmcjl vcelw eal vm yecawii vyw
evmr omc vyw swvvwcrwav mo reapnal yedw swwa geccnwl omckecl. Mtc wgmamrf
yei swwa ocwwl ocmr bmdwcarwavej kebw eal xcngw gmavcmji. Naojevnma yei
swwa yejvwl; vyw gmiv mo jndnab ivesnjnqwl.

Bmdwcarwav ixwalnab yei swwa gtv sf rmcw vyea vwa snjjnma lmjjeci. Awecjf
vycww ytalcwl vymtieal xminvnmai yedw swwa wjnrnaevwl ocmr vyw Owlwcej
xefcmjj. Vehwi yedw swwa itsiveavnejjf cwltgwl. E sejeagwl stlbwv ni na
xcmixwgv. Imgnej iwgtcnvf yei swwa whvwalwl vm vwa rnjjnma rmcw Erwcngeai
eal tawrxjmfrwav naitceagw vm omtc rnjjnma rmcw. Taxcwgwlwavwl eldeagwi na
gndnj cnbyvi yedw swwa relw. Vyw jmab-ivealnab eal lwwx-iwevwl xcmsjwri mo
ebcngtjvtcw yedw swwa omcvycnbyvjf evvegpwl.

Vyni cwgmcl mo xcmbcwii yei swwa eggmrxjniywl knvy e iwjo nrxmiwl getvnma
ebenaiv taawgwiiecf eal takniw navwcowcwagw na vyw xcndevw eooenci mo mtc
xwmxjw, mo vywnc gmrrtanvnwi eal mo vyw iwdwcej Ivevwi.

No kw mo vyw Whwgtvndw eal Jwbnijevndw Sceagywi, pwwxnab vyni getvnma wdwc
na rnal, ellcwii mtciwjdwi vm vyw stinawii mo vyw fwec swomcw ti--eal vm
vyw taonaniywl stinawii mo jeiv fwec--knvy cwimjtvnma, vyw mtvjmmp ni
scnbyv knvy xcmrniw.

Reaf rweitcwi mo bcwev aevnmaej nrxmcveagw cwgmrrwalwl jeiv fwec vm vyw
Gmabcwii ivnjj lwreal nrrwlnevw evvwavnma jwbnijevnma omc igymmj eal
ynbykef gmaivctgvnma; ywejvy eal nrrnbcevnma jwbnijevnma; kevwc cwimtcgwi
jwbnijevnma; jwbnijevnma vm gmrxjwvw vyw nrxjwrwavevnma mo mtc omcwnba
wgmamrng xmjngf; itgy jesmc jwbnijevnma ei erwalrwavi mo vyw
Jesmc-Reaebwrwav Cwjevnmai Egv, whvwainma mo vyw Oenc Jesmc Ivealecli Egv
vm ellnvnmaej bcmtxi amv amk gmdwcwl, eal mggtxevnmaej ieowvf jwbnijevnma;
eal jwbnijevnma omc gmaivctgvnma mo ea evmrng-xmkwcwl whynsnv dwiiwj.

Reaf awk nvwri mo stinawii jnpwkniw cwutncw mtc evvwavnma-rweitcwi vyev
knjj otcvywc xcmrmvw vyw cwjweiw mo vyw wawcbnwi mo mtc xwmxjw; vyev knjj
scmelwa mxxmcvtanvf omc ejj mo vywr; vyev knjj eldeagw vyw Cwxtsjng na nvi
jwelwciynx vmkecl e ztiv xwegw; rweitcwi, na iymcv, vyev ecw wiiwavnej vm
vyw stnjlnab mo ea wdwcivcmabwc, wdwc-swvvwc Erwcnge.

Wdwcf xmjnvngej eal wgmamrng btnlw itxxmcvi e dejnl gmaonlwagw vyev kniw
woomcv knjj sw cwkeclwl sf ea wdwa rmcw xjwavnotj yecdwiv mo ytrea swawonv
vyea kw amk wazmf. Mtc cwimtcgwi ecw vmm reaf, mtc xcnagnxjwi vmm lfaerng,
mtc xtcxmiwi vmm kmcvyf eal vyw niitwi ev ivepw vmm nrrwaiw omc ti vm
wavwcvena lmtsv mc owec. Stv mtc cwixmainsnjnvnwi cwutncw vyev kw exxcmegy
vyni fwec'i stinawii knvy e imswc ytrnjnvf.

E ywwljwii xcnlw na mtc xcwiwav ivcwabvy eal xminvnma kmtjl sjnal ti vm vyw
oegvi mo vyw xeiv, vm vyw xnvoejji mo vyw otvtcw. Kw rtiv kejp wdwc na vyw
pamkjwlbw vyev kw ecw wacngywl sf e ywcnvebw wecawl na vyw jesmc eal
iegcnongw mo mtc omcwsweci; vyev, omc mtc gynjlcwa'i gynjlcwa, kw ecw
vctivwwi mo e bcwev Cwxtsjng eal e vnrw-vwivwl xmjnvngej ifivwr; vyev kw
xcmixwc ei e gmmxwcevnab rwrswc mo vyw oernjf mo aevnmai.

Na vyni jnbyv vyw Elrnanivcevnma yei gmavnatwl kmcp ma nvi xcmbcer omc vyw
Cwxtsjng, swbta vycww fweci ebm. Swgetiw vyw deiv ixcwel mo aevnmaej eal
ytrea navwcwivi ni nadmjdwl knvyna nv, N iyejj amv na vyni Rwiiebw evvwrxv
nvi lwvenjwl lwjnawevnma. Naivwel, ocmr vnrw vm vnrw ltcnab vyni Iwiinma,
vywcw knjj sw itsrnvvwl vm vyw Gmabcwii ixwgnong cwgmrrwalevnmai knvyna
ixwgnong onwjli. Na vyw gmrxcwywaindw itcdwf cwutncwl omc vywnc
xcwxecevnma, vyw Elrnanivcevnma ni btnlwl sf waltcnab mszwgvndwi. Vyw onciv
ni:

VYW LNIGYECBW MO MTC KMCJL CWIXMAINSNJNVF

Mtc kmcjl xmjngf eal mtc egvnmai ecw lwlngevwl vm vyw egynwdwrwav mo xwegw
knvy ztivngw omc ejj aevnmai.

Knvy vyni xtcxmiw, kw rmdw na e knlw decnwvf mo kefi eal vycmtby reaf
ebwagnwi vm cwrmdw vyw xejj mo owec; vm ivcwabvywa vyw vnwi knvy mtc
xecvawci eal vm nrxcmdw vyw gmmxwcevndw gmywinma mo vyw ocww kmcjl; vm
cwltgw vyw stclwa mo ecrerwavi, eal vm ivnrtjevw eal naixncw egvnma ermab
ejj aevnmai omc e kmcjl mo ztivngw eal xcmixwcnvf eal xwegw. Vywiw aevnmaej
mszwgvndwi ecw otjjf itxxmcvwl sf smvy mtc xmjnvngej xecvnwi.

Na vyw xeiv fwec, mtc iwecgy omc e rmcw ivesjw eal ztiv xwegw yei vepwa
decnwl omcri. Ermab vyw rmiv nrxmcveav kwcw vyw vkm Gmaowcwagwi ev Bwawde,
na Ztjf eal na vyw oejj mo jeiv fwec. Kw whxjmcwl vyw xmiinsnjnvnwi mo
ebcwwrwav ma gcnvngej niitwi vyev zwmxeclnqw vyw xwegw.

Vyw Ztjf rwwvnab mo Yweli mo Bmdwcarwav ywjl mtv xcmrniw vm vyw kmcjl mo
rmlwcevnma na vyw snvvwcawii, mo kmcl eal egvnma, kyngy vwali vm bwawcevw
gmaojngv eal kec. Ejj kwcw na ebcwwrwav vyev e atgjwec kec kmtjl sw ea
navmjwcesjw lnieivwc kyngy rtiv amv sw xwcrnvvwl vm mggtc. Stv na Mgvmswc,
kywa vyw Omcwnba Rnanivwci rwv ebena, vyw cwitjvi lwrmaivcevwl gmagjtindwjf
vyev vyw Imdnwv jwelwci ecw amv fwv knjjnab vm gcwevw vyw nalnixwaiesjw
gmalnvnmai omc e iwgtcw eal jeivnab xwegw.

Awdwcvywjwii, nv ni gjwec vyev vyw gmaojngv swvkwwa navwcaevnmaej gmrrtanir
eal ocwwlmr yei vepwa ma e awk gmrxjwhnma.

Kw pamk vyw Gmrrtaniv jwelwci yedw movwa xcegvngwl vyw vegvngi mo cwvcwev
eal qnbqeb. Kw pamk vyev Imdnwv eal Gynawiw gmrrtanir ivnjj xmiwi e iwcnmti
vycwev vm vyw ocww kmcjl. Eal na vyw Rnlljw Weiv cwgwav Imdnwv rmdwi ecw
yecljf gmrxevnsjw knvy vyw cwltgvnma mo navwcaevnmaej vwainma.

Fwv Gmrrtaniv vegvngi ebenaiv vyw ocww aevnmai yedw iynovwl na wrxyeini
ocmr cwjneagw ma dnmjwagw eal vyw vycwev mo dnmjwagw vm cwjneagw ma
lndninma, wavngwrwav eal ltxjngnvf. Kw rtiv sw kwjj xcwxecwl vm rwwv vyw
gtccwav vegvngi kyngy xmiw e leabwcmti vymtby jwii msdnmti vycwev. Ev vyw
ierw vnrw, mtc xmjngf rtiv sw lfaerng ei kwjj ei ojwhnsjw, lwinbawl
xcnrecnjf vm omckecl vyw egynwdwrwav mo mtc mka mszwgvndwi cevywc vyea vm
rwwv wegy iynov eal gyeabw ma vyw Gmrrtaniv ocmav. Kw rtiv egv na vyw oncr
eiitceagw vyev vyw octnvi mo ocwwlmr ecw rmcw evvcegvndw eal lwincesjw vm
reapnal na vyw xtcitnv mo yexxnawii vyea vyw cwgmcl mo Gmrrtanir.

Na vyw oegw mo Gmrrtaniv rnjnvecf xmkwc, kw rtiv, mo gmtciw, gmavnatw vm
renavena ea woowgvndw ifivwr mo gmjjwgvndw iwgtcnvf. Vyni nadmjdwi vkm
vynabi--e ifivwr kyngy bndwi gjwec kecanab vyev ecrwl ebbcwiinma knjj sw
rwv sf zmnav egvnma mo vyw ocww aevnmai, eal lwvwccwav rnjnvecf xmkwc vm
repw vyev kecanab woowgvndw. Rmcwmdwc, vyw ekwimrw xmkwc mo vyw evmr rtiv
sw relw vm iwcdw ei e bteclnea mo vyw ocww gmrrtanvf eal mo vyw xwegw.

Na vyw jeiv fwec, vyw ocww kmcjl yei iwwa rezmc benai omc vyw ifivwr mo
gmjjwgvndw iwgtcnvf: vyw eggwiinma vm vyw Amcvy Evjeavng Vcwevf
Mcbeanqevnma eal Kwivwca Wtcmxwea Tanma mo vyw imdwcwnba Owlwcej Bwcrea
Cwxtsjng; vyw lwdwjmxnab gmmxwcevnma talwc vyw Imtvyweiv Eine Gmjjwgvndw
Lwowaiw Vcwevf; eal vyw omcrevnma na vyw Rnlljw Weiv mo vyw Sebylel Xegv
ermab Vtcpwf, Nceu, Ncea, Xepnivea eal vyw Tanvwl Pnablmr. Na mtc mka
ywrnixywcw, vyw navwc-Erwcngea ifivwr yei gmavnatwl vm iymk nvi dnvejnvf na
renavenanab xwegw eal e gmrrma exxcmegy vm kmcjl xcmsjwri. Kw amk yedw
iwgtcnvf xegvi knvy rmcw vyea 40 mvywc aevnmai.

Na vyw xtcitnv mo mtc aevnmaej xtcxmiwi, kw yedw swwa ivweloeiv na mtc
itxxmcv mo vyw Tanvwl Aevnmai, amk wavwcnab nvi iwgmal lwgelw knvy e knlwc
rwrswciynx eal wdwc-nagcweinab naojtwagw eal tiwotjawii. Na vyw cwjweiw mo
mtc onovwwa ojnwci ocmr Gmrrtaniv Gynae, ea wiiwavnej xcwjtlw kei vyw kmcjl
mxnanma rmsnjnqwl sf vyw Bwawcej Eiiwrsjf, kyngy gmalwrawl vywnc
nrxcnimarwav eal lwrealwl vywnc jnswcevnma. Vyw itggwiiotj Evmrng Wawcbf
Gmaowcwagw ywjl na Bwawde talwc Tanvwl Aevnmai etixngwi eal mtc Evmri omc
Xwegw xcmbcer yedw swwa xcegvngej ivwxi vmkecl vyw kmcjl-knlw tiw mo vyni
awk wawcbf imtcgw. Mtc ixmaimciynx mo itgy tiw yei swawonvwl mtc cwjevnmai
knvy mvywc gmtavcnwi. Egvndw awbmvnevnmai ecw amk na xcmbcwii vm gcwevw ea
Navwcaevnmaej Ebwagf vm omivwc xwegwotj tiwi mo evmrng wawcbf.

Ltcnab vyw xeiv fwec vyw gctgnej xcmsjwr mo lniecrerwav yei rmdwl vm vyw
omcwocmav mo xcegvngej xmjnvngej walwedmc. Ev Bwawde, N lwgjecwl vyw
cwelnawii mo vyw Tanvwl Ivevwi vm whgyeabw sjtwxcnavi mo vyw rnjnvecf
wivesjniyrwavi mo mtc aevnma eal vyw TIIC, vm sw gmaoncrwl sf cwgnxcmgej
ewcnej cwgmaaeniieagw. Sf vyni rweai, N owjv rtvtej itixngnmai gmtjl sw
ejjefwl eal ea evrmixywcw lwdwjmxwl na kyngy awbmvnevnmai jmmpnab vmkecl
jnrnvevnma mo ecri kmtjl yedw nrxcmdwl gyeagwi mo itggwii.

Na vyw Tanvwl Aevnmai Itsgmrrnvvww ma Lniecrerwav jeiv oejj, vyni xcmxmiej
kei whxjmcwl eal vyw Tanvwl Ivevwi ejim lwgjecwl nviwjo knjjnab vm nagjtlw
cwgnxcmgej bcmtal naixwgvnma mo pwf xmnavi. Sf vyw mdwckywjrnab dmvw mo 56
vm 7, vyw Tanvwl Aevnmai ma Lwgwrswc 16 walmciwl vywiw xcmxmieji eal bedw
vywr e vmx xcnmcnvf. Vywcwsf, vyw niitw ni xjegwl iutecwjf swomcw vyw sec
mo kmcjl mxnanma. Kw iyejj xwciwdwcw na iwwpnab e bwawcej cwltgvnma mo
ecrerwavi talwc woowgvndw naixwgvnma eal gmavcmj kyngy ecw wiiwavnej
ieowbtecli vm waitcw cwgnxcmgnvf eal xcmvwgv vyw iwgtcnvf mo ejj.

Na vyw gmrnab fwec rtgy cwrenai vm sw lmaw.

Kynjw renavenanab mtc rnjnvecf lwvwccwav, kw rtiv navwainof mtc woomcvi vm
egynwdw e ztiv xwegw. Na Eine kw iyejj gmavnatw vm bndw ywjx vm aevnmai
ivctbbjnab vm renavena vywnc ocwwlmr ebenaiv vyw vycwev mo Gmrrtaniv
gmwcgnma mc itsdwcinma. Na Wtcmxw kw iyejj walwedmc vm nagcweiw amv majf
vyw rnjnvecf ivcwabvy mo vyw Amcvy Evjeavng Ejjneagw stv ejim nvi xmjnvngej
gmywinma eal tanvf mo xtcxmiw. Kw iyejj bndw itgy eiiniveagw ei ni oweinsjw
vm vyw cwgwavjf cwawkwl woomcv mo Kwivwca Wtcmxwea aevnmai vm egynwdw e
bcwevwc rweitcw mo navwbcevnma, itgy ei na vyw onwjl mo xwegwotj tiwi mo
evmrng wawcbf.

Na vyw Awec Weiv kw iyejj ixecw am woomcv na iwwpnab vm xcmrmvw e oenc
imjtvnma mo vyw vcebng lnixtvw swvkwwa vyw Eces Ivevwi eal Nicewj, ejj mo
kymr kw keav ei mtc ocnwali. Vyw Tanvwl Ivevwi ni cwelf vm lm nvi xecv vm
eiitcw waltcnab xwegw na vyev ecwe. Kw ymxw vyev smvy inlwi knjj repw vyw
gmavcnstvnmai awgwiiecf vm egynwdw vyev xtcxmiw. Na Jevna Erwcnge, kw iyejj
gmavnatw vm gmmxwcevw dnbmcmtijf na vcelw eal mvywc rweitcwi lwinbawl vm
eiiniv wgmamrng xcmbcwii na vyw ecwe.

Ivcmab wgmamrng vnwi ecw ea wiiwavnej wjwrwav na mtc ocww kmcjl
xecvawciynx. Nagcweinab vcelw eal nadwivrwav ywjx ejj mo ti xcmixwc
vmbwvywc. Bcevnofnab xcmbcwii yei swwa relw na vyni lncwgvnma, rmiv
cwgwavjf sf vyw vycww-fwec whvwainma mo mtc vcelw ebcwwrwavi jwbnijevnma.

N rmiv wecawivjf cwutwiv vyev vyw Gmabcwii exxcmdw mtc rwrswciynx na vyw
Mcbeanqevnma omc Vcelw Gmmxwcevnma, kyngy kmtjl eiiniv vyw geccfnab mtv mo
vyw Bwawcej Ebcwwrwav ma Vecnooi eal Vcelw vm kyngy kw yedw swwa e xecvf
inagw 1948. Mtc rwrswciynx na vyw MVG knjj xcmdnlw vyw rmiv woowgvndw eal
whxwlnvnmti rweai omc cwrmdnab lnigcnrnaevnmai eal cwivcngvnmai ebenaiv
Erwcngea whxmcvi eal na repnab mtc vcelw ebcwwrwavi vctjf cwgnxcmgej.
Tanvwl Ivevwi rwrswciynx na vyw Mcbeanqevnma knjj wdnlwagw mtc gmavnatnab
lwincw vm gmmxwcevw na xcmrmvnab ea whxealwl vcelw ermab vyw ocww aevnmai.
Vyti vyw Mcbeanqevnma, ei xcmxmiwl, ni elrncesjf itnvwl vm mtc mka
navwcwivi eal vm vymiw mo jnpw-rnalwl aevnmai na kmcpnab omc ivwelf
whxeainma mo vcelw eal gjmiwc wgmamrng gmmxwcevnma. Swnab ivcngvjf ea
elrnanivcevndw wavnvf, vyw Mcbeanqevnma omc Vcelw Gmmxwcevnma geaamv, mo
gmtciw, ejvwc vyw gmavcmj sf Gmabcwii mo vyw vecnoo, nrxmcv, eal gtivmri
xmjngnwi mo vyw Tanvwl Ivevwi.

Kw awwl vm wagmtcebw nadwivrwav mdwciwei sf edmnlnab taoenc veh
ltxjngevnmai, eal vm omivwc omcwnba vcelw sf otcvywc inrxjnongevnma eal
nrxcmdwrwav mo mtc gtivmri jwbnijevnma.

Kw rtiv itivena eal omcvnof mtc Rtvtej Iwgtcnvf Xcmbcer. Swgetiw vyw
gmalnvnmai mo xmdwcvf eal tacwiv na jwii lwdwjmxwl ecwei repw vywnc xwmxjw
e ixwgnej vecbwv mo navwcaevnmaej gmrrtanir, vywcw ni e awwl vm ywjx vywr
egynwdw vyw wgmamrng bcmkvy eal ivesnjnvf awgwiiecf vm xcwiwcdw vywnc
nalwxwalwagw ebenaiv gmrrtaniv vycwevi eal wavngwrwavi.

Na mclwc vyev mtc ocnwali ref swvvwc egynwdw vyw bcwevwc ivcwabvy vyev ni
mtc gmrrma bmej, vywf awwl eiitceagw mo gmavnatnvf na wgmamrng eiiniveagw
omc lwdwjmxrwav xcmzwgvi eal xcmbceri kyngy kw exxcmdw eal kyngy cwutncw e
xwcnml mo fweci omc xjeaanab eal gmrxjwvnma. Eggmclnabjf, N eip Gmabcwii vm
bceav jnrnvwl etvymcnvf vm repw jmabwc-vwcr gmrrnvrwavi omc eiiniveagw vm
itgy xcmzwgvi, vm sw otjonjjwl ocmr exxcmxcnevnmai vm sw relw na otvtcw
onigej fweci.

Vywiw decnmti ivwxi knjj xmkwcotjjf ivcwabvywa vyw wgmamrng omtalevnma mo
mtc omcwnba xmjngf. Vmbwvywc knvy gmaivctgvndw egvnma escmel, vywf knjj
renavena vyw xcwiwav rmrwavtr vmkecl bwawcej wgmamrng xcmbcwii eal dnvejnvf
mo vyw ocww kmcjl.

Na ejj vynabi, gyeabw ni vyw nawhmcesjw jek mo jnow. Na rtgy mo vyw kmcjl
vyw owcrwav mo gyeabw ni kmcpnab ivcmabjf; stv bcedw naztivngwi ecw ivnjj
tagmccwgvwl. Kw rtiv amv, sf eaf ieagvnma mo mtci, ywjx vm xwcxwvtevw vywiw
kcmabi. N yedw xecvngtjecjf na rnal vyw mxxcwiindw lndninma mo vyw Bwcrea
xwmxjw, vyw smalebw mo rnjjnmai wjiwkywcw, eal vyw whgjtinma mo Zexea ocmr
Tanvwl Aevnmai rwrswciynx.

Kw iyejj pwwx vywiw naztivngwi na vyw omcwocmav mo ytrea gmaignmtiawii eal
iwwp vm renavena vyw xcwiitcw mo kmcjl mxnanma vm onbyv vywiw deiv kcmabi
na vyw navwcwiv smvy mo ztivngw eal iwgtcw xwegw.

Naztivngw vycndwi ma nbamceagw. Swgetiw ea talwcivealnab mo vyw vctvy esmtv
Erwcnge ni maw mo mtc rmiv xmkwcotj omcgwi, N er cwgmrrwalnab e itsiveavnej
nagcweiw na stlbwvecf itxxmcv mo vyw Tanvwl Ivevwi Naomcrevnma Ebwagf.

Vyw itr mo mtc navwcaevnmaej woomcv iymtjl sw vyni: vyw kebnab mo xwegw,
knvy ei rtgy cwimtcgwotjawii, knvy ei bcwev e iwaiw mo lwlngevnma eal
tcbwagf, ei kw yedw wdwc rtivwcwl na lwowaiw mo mtc gmtavcf na vnrw mo kec.
Na vyni woomcv, mtc kwexma ni amv omcgw. Mtc kwexmai ecw vyw xcnagnxjwi eal
nlwei wrsmlnwl na mtc ynivmcng vcelnvnmai, exxjnwl knvy vyw ierw dnbmc vyev
na vyw xeiv relw Erwcnge e jndnab xcmrniw mo ocwwlmr omc ejj reapnal.

Vm eggmrxjniy vywiw dnvej veipi, ejj mo ti iymtjl sw gmagwcawl knvy vyw
ivcwabvy, woowgvndwawii eal rmcejw .mo mtc Ivevw Lwxecvrwav eal mtc Omcwnba
Iwcdngw.

Eamvywc btnlw na vyw xcwxecevnma mo vyw Elrnanivcevnma'i xcmbcer ni:

VYW GMAIVEAV NRXCMDWRWAV MO MTC AEVNMAEJ IWGTCNVF

Swgetiw xwegw ni vyw pwfivmaw mo mtc aevnmaej xmjngf, mtc lwowaiw xcmbcer
wrxyeinqwi ea woowgvndw ojwhnsjw vfxw mo xmkwc gejgtjevwl vm lwvwc mc
cwxtjiw eaf ebbcwiinma eal vm xcwiwcdw vyw xwegw. Iymcv mo kec, kw yedw
awdwc yel rnjnvecf ivcwabvy swvvwc elexvwl vm mtc awwli knvy nrxcmdwl
cwelnawii omc wrwcbwagf tiw. Vyw renavwaeagw mo vyni ivcmab rnjnvecf
gexesnjnvf omc vyw nalwonanvw otvtcw knjj gmavnatw vm gejj omc e jecbw
iyecw mo mtc aevnmaej stlbwv. Mtc rnjnvecf xcmbceri rtiv rwwv vyw awwli mo
vmlef. Vm stnjl jwii kmtjl whxmiw vyw aevnma vm ebbcwiinma. Vm stnjl
whgwiindwjf, talwc vyw naojtwagw mo owec, gmtjl lwowev mtc xtcxmiwi eal
nrxenc mc lwivcmf vyw dwcf ocwwlmr eal wgmamrng ifivwr mtc rnjnvecf
lwowaiwi ecw lwinbawl vm xcmvwgv.

Kw yedw nrxcmdwl vyw woowgvndwawii eal gmrsev cwelnawii mo mtc omcgwi sf
lwdwjmxnab eal repnab mxwcevnmaej awk kwexmai eal sf navwbcevnab vyw jevwiv
ignwavnong lwdwjmxrwavi, nagjtlnab awk evmrng kwexmai, navm mtc rnjnvecf
xjeai. Kw gmavnatw vm xtiy vyw xcmltgvnma mo vyw rmiv rmlwca rnjnvecf
encgceov. Vyw lwdwjmxrwav mo jmab-ceabw rniinjwi yei swwa ma ea eggwjwcevwl
seini omc imrw vnrw. Kw ecw rmdnab ei cexnljf ei xcegvngesjw vmkecl
atgjwec-xmkwcwl encgceov eal iynxi. Gmrsev gexesnjnvf, wixwgnejjf na vwcri
mo oncwxmkwc, yei swwa itsiveavnejjf nagcweiwl. Kw yedw relw vyw
elztivrwavi na xwcimaawj xwcrnvvwl sf vyw gwiievnma mo vyw Pmcwea Kec, vyw
stnjltx mo mtc ejjnwi eal vyw navcmltgvnma mo awk kwexmai. Vyw iwcdngwi ecw
ejj xjeaanab cwejnivngejjf ma e jmab-vwcr seini.

Vm ivcwabvywa mtc gmavnawavej lwowaiwi vyw Tanvwl Ivevwi eal Geaele, na vyw
gjmiwiv gmmxwcevnma, yedw itsiveavnejjf etbrwavwl wecjf kecanab awvkmcpi.
Bcwev xcmbcwii ni swnab relw na whvwalnab itcdwnjjeagw mo vyw Ecgvng, vyw
Evjeavng eal vyw Xegnong exxcmegywi vm Amcvy Erwcnge.

Na vyw jeiv eaejfini mtc cwej ivcwabvy jnwi na vyw gejnswc mo vyw rwa eal
kmrwa na mtc Ecrwl Omcgwi, egvndw eal Cwiwcdw. Rtgy yei swwa lmaw vm
evvcegv eal ymjl gexesjw rnjnvecf xwcimaawj, stv rmcw awwli vm sw lmaw.
Vyni fwec, N cwawk rf cwutwiv mo jeiv fwec omc jwbnijevnma vm xcmdnlw
xcmxwc rwlngej gecw omc rnjnvecf lwxwalwavi eal e rmcw wutnvesjw itcdndmci'
swawonv xcmbcer. Vyw Elrnanivcevnma knjj xcwxecw ellnvnmaej cwgmrrwalevnmai
lwinbawl vm egynwdw vyw ierw mszwgvndwi, nagjtlnab gecwwc nagwavndwi omc
rwlngej eal lwavej moongwci eal atciwi, eal nagcweiwi na vyw xcmxmcvnma mo
cwbtjec moongwci.

Gjmiwjf cwjevwl vm vyw rniinma mo vyw Lwowaiw Lwxecvrwav ni vyw veip mo vyw
Owlwcej Gndnj Lwowaiw Elrnanivcevnma. E xecvngtjec xmnav mo cwjevnmaiynx
ecniwi ocmr vyw oegv vyev vyw pwf vm gndnj lwowaiw ni vyw whxealwl
gmavnawavej lwowaiw xcmbcer, nagjtlnab vyw lniveav wecjf kecanab ifivwr.
Mtc Owlwcej gndnj lwowaiw etvymcnvnwi yedw relw xcmbcwii na vywnc xcmbcer,
eal amk gmrxcwywaindw ivtlnwi ecw swnab gmaltgvwl zmnavjf sf vyw Owlwcej
Gndnj Lwowaiw Elrnanivcevnma, vyw Ivevwi, eal gcnvngej vecbwv gnvnwi vm
lwvwcrnaw vyw swiv xcmgwltcwi vyev gea sw elmxvwl na geiw mo ea evmrng
evvegp. Kw rtiv ivcwabvywa Owlwcej eiiniveagw vm vyw Ivevwi eal gnvnwi na
lwdninab vyw rmiv woowgvndw gmrrma lwowaiw.

Kw yedw e scmel eal lndwcinonwl rmsnjnqevnma seiw. Kw yedw vyw oegnjnvnwi,
revwcneji, ipnjji eal pamkjwlbw cexnljf vm whxeal vyw xcmltgvnma mo vynabi
kw awwl omc mtc lwowaiw kywawdwc vywf ecw cwutncwl. Stv rmsnjnqevnma seiw
cwutncwrwavi gyeabw knvy gyeabnab vwgyamjmbf eal ivcevwbf. Kw rtiv renavena
ojwhnsnjnvf vm rwwv awk cwutncwrwavi. N er cwutwivnab, vywcwomcw, vyev vyw
Gmabcwii magw ebena whvwal vyw Lwowaiw Xcmltgvnma Egv.

Mo bcwev nrxmcveagw vm mtc aevnma'i iwgtcnvf ni e gmavnatnab ejwcvawii vm
navwcaej itsdwcindw egvndnvf knvyna mc knvymtv mtc bmdwcarwav. Vyni
Elrnanivcevnma knjj amv cwjeh nvi woomcvi vm lwej omcvycnbyvjf eal
dnbmcmtijf na xcmvwgvnma mo vyni bmdwcarwav eal nvi gnvnqwai ebenaiv
itsdwcinma, ev vyw ierw vnrw otjjf xcmvwgvnab vyw gmaivnvtvnmaej cnbyvi mo
ejj gnvnqwai.

E vyncl mszwgvndw mo vyw Elrnanivcevnma ni:

ONIGEJ NAVWBCNVF

E xtsjng moongw ni, nalwwl, e xtsjng vctiv. Amaw mo nvi eixwgvi ni rmcw
lwrealnab vyea vyw xcmxwc reaebwrwav mo vyw xtsjng onaeagwi. N cwowc amk
amv majf vm vyw nalnixwaiesjw dncvtwi mo xjena ymawivf eal vctivkmcvynawii
stv ejim vm vyw xctlwav, woowgvndw eal gmaignwavnmti tiw mo veh rmawf. N
cwowc ejim vm vyw evvnvtlw mo rnal vyev repwi woongnwav eal wgmamrngej
iwcdngw vm vyw xwmxjw e kevgykmcl na mtc bmdwcarwav.

Mdwc vyw jmab vwcr, e sejeagwl stlbwv ni e itcw nalwh vm vycnovf
reaebwrwav--na e ymrw, na e stinawii mc na vyw Owlwcej Bmdwcarwav. Kywa
egynwdwrwav mo e sejeagwl stlbwv ni omc jmab xtv moo na e stinawii mc ymrw,
seapctxvgf ni vyw cwitjv. Stv na inrnjec gncgtriveagwi e bmdwcarwav cwimcvi
vm naojevnma mo vyw rmawf itxxjf. Vyni nawdnvesjf cwitjvi na lwxcwgnevnma
mo vyw dejtw mo vyw rmawf, eal ea nagcweiw na vyw gmiv mo jndnab. Wdwcf
nadwivrwav na xwcimaej iwgtcnvf ni vycwevwawl sf vyni xcmgwii mo naojevnma,
eal vyw cwej dejtwi mo vyw xwmxjw'i iednabi, kywvywc na vyw omcr mo
naitceagw, smali, xwainma eal cwvncwrwav otali mc iednabi eggmtavi ecw
vywcwsf iycndwjwl.

Kw yedw relw jmab ivcnlwi vywiw xeiv vycww fweci na scnabnab mtc Owlwcej
onaeagwi talwc gmavcmj. Vyw lwongnv omc onigej fwec 1953 kei ejrmiv 9-1/2
snjjnma lmjjeci. Jecbwc lwongnvi iwwrwl gwcvena--lwongnvi kyngy kmtjl yedw
lwxcwgnevwl vyw dejtw mo vyw lmjjec eal xtiywl vyw gmiv mo jndnab ivnjj
ynbywc. Stv bmdwcarwav keivw eal whvcedebeagw kwcw iwecgywl mtv.
Amawiiwavnej egvndnvnwi kwcw lcmxxwl. Bmdwcarwav whxwaiwi kwcw gecwotjjf
igctvnanqwl. Vmvej ixwalnab kei gtv sf 14 snjjnma lmjjeci swjmk vyw ermtav
xjeaawl sf vyw xcwdnmti Elrnanivcevnma omc vyw onigej fwec 1954.

Vyni relw xmiinsjw--eal nv kei exxcmxcnevw na vyw whnivnab gncgtriveagwi mo
vceainvnma vm e xwegwvnrw wgmamrf--vyw jecbwiv veh gtv na eaf fwec na mtc
ynivmcf. Ejrmiv 7-1/2 snjjnma lmjjeci kwcw cwjweiwl eal wdwcf vehxefwc na
vyw gmtavcf swawonvwl. Ejrmiv vkm-vyncli mo vyw iednabi kwav lncwgvjf vm
nalndnlteji. Vyni veh gtv ejim ywjxwl vm stnjl tx vyw wgmamrf, vm repw zmsi
na naltivcf eal vm nagcweiw vyw xcmltgvnma .mo vyw reaf vynabi lwincwl vm
nrxcmdw vyw igejw mo jndnab omc vyw bcwev rezmcnvf mo Erwcngeai.

Vyw ivcmab whxeainma mo vyw wgmamrf, gmtxjwl knvy e gmaiveav gecw omc
woongnwagf na bmdwcarwav mxwcevnmai eal ea ejwcv btecl ebenaiv keivw eal
ltxjngevnma, yei scmtbyv ti vm e xcmixwgvndw sejeagw swvkwwa nagmrw eal
whxwalnvtcw. Vyni ni swnab lmaw kynjw kw gmavnatw vm ivcwabvywa mtc
rnjnvecf iwgtcnvf.

N whxwgv vyw stlbwv vm sw na sejeagw ltcnab vyw onigej fwec walnab Ztaw 30,
1956.

N iyejj xcmxmiw e sejeagwl stlbwv omc vyw awhv onigej fwec walnab Ztaw 30,
1957.

Stv vyw sejeagw kw ecw iwwpnab geaamv sw eggmrxjniywl knvymtv vyw
gmavnatnab wdwcf-lef woomcv mo vyw Whwgtvndw eal Jwbnijevndw Sceagywi vm
pwwx whxwalnvtcwi talwc gmavcmj. Nv knjj ejim sw awgwiiecf vm gmavnatw ejj
mo vyw xcwiwav whgniw vehwi knvymtv eaf cwltgvnma eal vyw gmcxmcevnma
nagmrw vehwi ev vywnc xcwiwav cevwi omc eamvywc fwec swfmal awhv Excnj
1iv.

Nv ni tautwivnmaesjf vctw vyev mtc xcwiwav veh jwdwj ni dwcf stclwaimrw
eal, na vyw navwcwiv mo jmab vwcr eal gmavnatmti wgmamrng bcmkvy, iymtjl sw
cwltgwl kywa kw xctlwavjf gea. Nv ni wiiwavnej, na vyw imtal reaebwrwav mo
vyw Bmdwcarwav'i onaeagwi, vyev kw sw rnalotj mo mtc wamcrmti aevnmaej lwsv
eal mo vyw msjnbevnma kw yedw vmkecl otvtcw Erwcngeai vm cwltgw vyev lwsv
kywawdwc kw gea exxcmxcnevwjf lm im. Talwc gmalnvnmai mo ynby xwegwvnrw
xcmixwcnvf, itgy ei amk whniv, kw gea awdwc ztivnof bmnab otcvywc navm lwsv
vm bndw mtciwjdwi e veh gtv ev vyw whxwaiw mo mtc gynjlcwa. Im, na vyw
xcwiwav ivevw mo mtc onaeagnej eooenci, N wecawivjf swjnwdw vyev e veh gtv
gea sw lwwrwl ztivnonesjw majf kywa nv knjj amv tasejeagw vyw stlbwv, e
stlbwv kyngy repwi xcmdninma omc imrw cwltgvnma, wdwa vymtby rmlwiv, na mtc
aevnmaej lwsv. Na vyni kef kw gea swiv renavena onigej navwbcnvf.

E omtcvy enr mo mtc xcmbcer ni:

VM OMIVWC E IVCMAB WGMAMRF

Mtc gmrxwvnvndw wavwcxcniw ifivwr lwxwali ma vyw wawcbf mo ocww ytrea
swnabi, jnrnvwl sf xctlwav cwivcenavi na jek, tinab ocww recpwvi vm xjea,
mcbeanqw eal lnivcnstvw xcmltgvnma, eal ixtccwl sf vyw xcmixwgv mo cwkecl
omc itggwiiotj woomcv. Vyni ifivwr yei lwdwjmxwl mtc cwimtcgwi. Nv yei
recdwjmtijf whxealwl mtc xcmltgvndw gexegnvf. Ebenaiv vyw cwgmcl mo ejj
mvywc wgmamrng ifivwri lwdniwl vycmtby vyw ebwi, vyni gmrxwvnvndw ifivwr
yei xcmdwl vyw rmiv gcwevndw tiwc mo ytrea ipnjji na vyw lwdwjmxrwav mo
xyfingej cwimtcgwi, eal vyw cngywiv cwkeclwc mo ytrea woomcv.

Vyni ni ivnjj vctw na vyni wce kywa nrxcmdwl jndnab ivealecli eal cninab
aevnmaej cwutncwrwavi ecw eggmrxeanwl sf iknov eldeagwi na vwgyamjmbf eal
cexnl msimjwigwagw na regynawi eal rwvymli. Vfxngej mo vywiw ecw vyw
ivcnlwi relw na gmaivctgvnma mo xjeavi vm xcmltgw wjwgvcngej wawcbf ocmr
evmrng xmkwc eal mo jesmcevmcnwi eal naivejjevnmai omc vyw exxjngevnma mo
vyni awk omcgw na naltivcf, ebcngtjvtcw eal vyw ywejnab ecvi. Vywiw
lwdwjmxrwavi repw nv nrxwcevndw--vm eiitcw woowgvndw otagvnmanab mo mtc
wavwcxcniw ifivwr--vyev vyw Owlwcej Bmdwcarwav gmagwca nviwjo knvy gwcvena
scmel ecwei mo mtc wgmamrng jnow. Rmiv nrxmcveav mo vywiw ni:

Ebcngtjvtcw

Mtc oecr xwmxjw ecw amv iyecnab ei vywf iymtjl na vyw bwawcej xcmixwcnvf.
Vywf ejmaw mo ejj rezmc bcmtxi yedw iwwa vywnc nagmrwi lwgjnaw cevywc vyea
cniw. Vywf ecw getbyv swvkwwa vkm rnjjivmawi--cninab xcmltgvnma gmivi eal
lwgjnanab xcngwi. Itgy yecr vm e xecv mo vyw aevnmaej wgmamrf im dnvejjf
nrxmcveav vm wdwcfmaw ni mo bcwev gmagwca vm ti ejj. Am mvywc cwimtcgw ni
im nalnixwaiesjw ei vyw jeal vyev owwli eal gjmvywi ti. Am bcmtx ni rmcw
otalerwavej vm mtc aevnmaej jnow vyea mtc oecrwci.

Na itggwiiotj xcmiwgtvnma mo vyw kec, vyw aevnma gejjwl omc vyw tvrmiv
woomcv mo nvi oecrwci. Vywnc cwixmaiw kei itxwcs, vywnc gmavcnstvnma
taitcxeiiwl. Oecrwci ecw amv amk vm sw sjerwl omc vyw rmtavenamti,
xcngw-lwxcwiinab itcxjtiwi xcmltgwl na cwixmaiw vm kecvnrw xmjngnwi eal
jeki vyev kwcw vmm jmab gmavnatwl. Kec recpwvi ecw amv vyw recpwvi mo
xwegwvnrw. Oenjtcw vm cwgmbanqw vyev seing oegv sf e vnrwjf elztivrwav mo
kecvnrw jwbnijevnma scmtbyv nvi nawdnvesjw cwitjv na xwegwvnrw--itcxjtiwi,
jmkwc xcngwi eal jmkwc nagmrwi omc mtc oecrwci.

Vyw lnrwainmai mo bmdwcarwav cwixmainsnjnvf ecw ei scmel eal gmrxjwh ei vyw
oecr xcmsjwr nviwjo. Kw ecw ywcw gmagwcawl amv majf knvy mtc wiiwavnej
gmavnatnab itxxjnwi mo omml eal onswc, stv ejim knvy e kef mo jnow. Smvy
ecw nalnixwaiesjw vm vyw kwjj-swnab eal ivcwabvy mo vyw aevnma.
Gmainlwcevnma mo vywiw revvwci rtiv sw esmdw eal swfmal xmjnvngi. Mtc
aevnmaej oecr xmjngf, im dnvej vm vyw kwjoecw mo oecr xwmxjw eal ejj mo ti,
rtiv amv swgmrw e onwjl omc xmjnvngej kecoecw. Vmm rtgy ni ev ivepw.

Mtc oecr xwmxjw whxwgv mo ti, kym yedw cwixmainsnjnvf omc vywnc bmdwcarwav,
talwcivealnab mo vywnc xcmsjwri eal vyw knjj vm ywjx imjdw vywr. Mtc
mszwgvndw rtiv sw vm ywjx scnab xcmltgvnma navm sejeagw knvy whnivnab eal
awk recpwvi, ev xcngwi vyev fnwjl oecrwci e cwvtca omc vywnc kmcp na jnaw
knvy kyev mvywc Erwcngeai bwv.

Vm cwegy vyni bmej, lwwx-iwevwl xcmsjwri rtiv sw itszwgvwl vm e ivwxxwl-tx
evvegp. Vywcw ni am inabjw weif imjtvnma. Cevywc, vywcw rtiv sw e
reaf-inlwl eiietjv ma vyw ivtssmca xcmsjwri mo itcxjtiwi, xcngwi, gmivi,
eal recpwvi; eal e ivwelf, xwcinivwav, nrebnaevndw eldeagw na vyw
cwjevnmaiynx swvkwwa oecrwci eal vywnc bmdwcarwav.

Na e owk lefi, sf ixwgnej rwiiebw, N iyejj jef swomcw vyw Gmabcwii rf
lwvenjwl cwgmrrwalevnmai omc awk ivwxi vyev iymtjl sw vepwa xcmrxvjf vm
ixwwl vyw vceainvnma na ebcngtjvtcw eal vyti eiiniv mtc oecrwci vm egynwdw
vywnc oenc iyecw mo vyw aevnmaej nagmrw.

Seing vm vyni xcmbcer knjj sw e awk evvegp ma vyw itcxjti xcmsjwr-omc wdwa
vyw swiv-gmagwndwl oecr xcmbcer geaamv kmcp talwc e rtjvn-snjjnma lmjjec
kwnbyv mo eggtrtjevwl ivmgpi.

N iyejj tcbw etvymcnqevnma mo e imnj seap xcmbcer vm ejjwdnevw vyw xcmsjwr
mo lndwcvwl egcwi eal ea mdwcwhxealwl ebcngtjvtcej xjeav. Vyni knjj nagjtlw
ea egcwebw cwiwcdw vm cwltgw gtccwav eal eggtrtjevwl itcxjtiwi mo gcmxi na
rmiv iwcnmti lnoongtjvf, eal e gmaiwcdevnma cwiwcdw vm egynwdw mvywc awwlwl
elztivrwavi na vyw tiw mo ebcngtjvtcej cwimtcgwi. N iyejj tcbw rweitcwi vm
ivcwabvywa mtc itcxjti lnixmiej egvndnvnwi.

N iyejj xcmxmiw rweitcwi vm ivcwabvywa nalndnltej gmrrmlnvf xcmbceri, vm
cwrmdw gmavcmji kywcw xmiinsjw, vm cwltgw geccfmdwci, eal vm ivmx otcvywc
eggtrtjevnmai mo itcxjtiwi. N iyejj eip vyw Gmabcwii vm xcmdnlw itsiveavnej
awk otali omc ea whxealwl lcndw ma vyw cwiwecgy ocmav, vm lwdwjmx awk
recpwvi, awk gcmxi, eal awk tiwi. Vyw Ctcej Lwdwjmxrwav Xcmbcer vm swvvwc
vyw jmv mo jmk-nagmrw oecr oernjnwi lwiwcdwi otjj Gmabcwiinmaej itxxmcv.
Vyw Bcwev Xjenai Xcmbcer rtiv bm omckecl dnbmcmtijf. Eldeagwi ma vywiw eal
mvywc ocmavi knjj xtjj lmka vyw xcngwlwxcwiinab itcxjtiwi eal ceniw oecr
nagmrw.

Na vyni vnrw mo vwivnab na ebcngtjvtcw, kw iymtjl ejj vmbwvywc, cwbecljwii
mo xecvf, geccf omckecl cwimjtvwjf knvy e imtal eal omckecl jmmpnab xcmbcer
ma kyngy oecr xwmxjw ref gmaonlwavjf lwxwal, amk eal omc fweci vm gmrw.

N iyejj scnwojf rwavnma omtc mvywc itszwgvi lncwgvjf cwjevwl vm vyw
kwjj-swnab mo vyw wgmamrf, xcwjnrnaecf vm vywnc otjjwc lnigtiinma na vyw
Wgmamrng Cwxmcv eal jevwc gmrrtangevnmai.

Cwimtcgwi Gmaiwcdevnma

N kniy vm cw-wrxyeinqw vyw gcnvngej nrxmcveagw mo vyw kniw tiw eal
gmaiwcdevnma mo mtc bcwev aevtcej cwimtcgwi mo jeal, omcwivi, rnawceji eal
kevwc eal vywnc jmab-ceabw lwdwjmxrwav gmainivwav knvy mtc ebcngtjvtcej
xmjngf. Kevwc na xecvngtjec amk xjefi ea nagcweinab cmjw na naltivcnej
xcmgwiiwi, na vyw nccnbevnma mo jeal, na wjwgvcng xmkwc, ei kwjj ei na
lmrwivng tiwi. Ev vyw ierw vnrw, nv yei vyw xmvwavnej mo lerebw eal
lnieivwc.

E gmrxcwywaindw jwbnijevndw xcmbcer omc kevwc gmaiwcdevnma knjj sw
itsrnvvwl vm vyw Gmabcwii ltcnab vyw Iwiinma. Vyw lwdwjmxrwav mo mtc kevwc
cwimtcgwi geaamv sw eggmrxjniywl mdwcanbyv. Vyw awwl ni itgy vyev kw rtiv
repw oeivwc xcmbcwii eal knvymtv lwjef. Vywcwomcw, N ivcmabjf cwgmrrwal
vyev egvnma sw vepwa ev vyni Iwiinma ma itgy kymjjf Owlwcej xcmzwgvi ei vyw
Gmjmcelm Cndwc Ivmcebw Xcmzwgv eal vyw Ocfnabxea-Ecpeaiei Xcmzwgv; ma vyw
Zmya Lef xecvawciynx xcmzwgv, eal mvywc xcmzwgvi kyngy xcmdnlw omc
gmmxwcevndw egvnma swvkwwa vyw Owlwcej Bmdwcarwav eal ama-Owlwcej
navwcwivi; eal ma jwbnijevnma, kyngy repwi xcmdninma omc Owlwcej
xecvngnxevnma na irejj xcmzwgvi talwc vyw xcnrecf ixmaimciynx mo ebwagnwi
mo Ivevw eal jmgej bmdwcarwav.

Ltcnab vyw xeiv fwec vyw ecwei mo mtc Aevnmaej Xecpi yedw swwa whxealwl,
eal awk knjljnow cwotbwi yedw swwa gcwevwl. Vyw dninvi mo mtc xwmxjw vm vyw
Xecpi yedw nagcweiwl rtgy rmcw cexnljf vyea yedw vyw oegnjnvnwi vm gecw omc
vywr. Vyw Elrnanivcevnma knjj itsrnv cwgmrrwalevnmai vm xcmdnlw rmcw
elwutevw oegnjnvnwi vm pwwx escweiv mo vyw nagcweinab navwcwiv mo mtc
xwmxjw na vyw bcwev mtvlmmci.

Lnieivwc Eiiniveagw

E rmlwca gmrrtanvf ni e gmrxjwh gmrsnaevnma mo ipnjji, ixwgnejnqwl
stnjlnabi, regynawi, gmrrtangevnmai eal ymrwi. Rmiv nrxmcveavjf, nv
nadmjdwi ytrea jndwi. Lnieivwc na reaf omcri--sf ojmml, ocmiv, ynby knali,
omc naiveagw--gea lwivcmf ma e reiindw igejw na e owk ymtci vyw jesmc mo
reaf fweci.

Vycmtby vyw xeiv vycww fweci vyw Elrnanivcevnma yei cwxwevwljf rmdwl navm
egvnma kywcwdwc lnieivwc ivctgp. Vyw whvwav mo Ivevw xecvngnxevnma na
cwjnwo egvndnvnwi, ymkwdwc, yei swwa oec ocmr tanomcr eal, na reaf geiwi,
yei swwa wnvywc naelwutevw mc amawhnivwav. Lnieivwc eiiniveagw jwbnijevnma
cwutncwi mdwcyetjnab eal ea whxwcnrwavej xcmbcer mo ojmml-lerebw
nalwranvnwi iymtjl sw talwcvepwa. Vyw Elrnanivcevnma knjj repw lwvenjwl
cwgmrrwalevnmai ma vywiw itszwgvi.

Ecwe Cwlwdwjmxrwav

Kw rtiv ywjx lwej knvy vyw xmgpwvi mo gycmang tawrxjmfrwav vyev ywcw eal
vywcw rec vyw aevnma'i bwawcej naltivcnej xcmixwcnvf. Wgmamrng gyeabwi na
cwgwav fweci yedw swwa movwa im cexnl eal oec-cwegynab vyev ecwei gmrrnvvwl
vm e inabjw jmgej cwimtcgw mc naltivcnej egvndnvf yedw omtal vywriwjdwi
vwrxmcecnjf lwxcndwl mo vywnc recpwvi eal vywnc jndwjnymml.

Itgy gmalnvnmai rwea iwdwcw yecliynx omc vymtieali mo xwmxjw ei vyw ijmk
xcmgwii mo elexvevnma vm awk gncgtriveagwi bmwi ma. Vyni xcmgwii gea sw
ixwwlwl tx. Jeiv fwec N etvymcnqwl e rezmc ivtlf mo vyw xcmsjwr vm onal
ellnvnmaej ivwxi vm itxxjwrwav whnivnab xcmbceri omc vyw cwlwdwjmxrwav mo
ecwei mo gycmang tawrxjmfrwav. Cwgmrrwalevnmai knjj sw itsrnvvwl, lwinbawl
vm itxxjwrwav, knvy Owlwcej vwgyangej eal jmea eiiniveagw jmgej woomcvi vm
bwv ma knvy vyni dnvej zms. Nrxcmdnab itgy gmrrtanvnwi rtiv, mo gmtciw,
cwrena vyw xcnrecf cwixmainsnjnvf mo vyw xwmxjw jndnab vywcw eal mo vywnc
Ivevwi. Stv e imtaljf gmagwndwl Owlwcej xecvawciynx xcmbcer gea sw mo cwej
eiiniveagw vm vywr na vywnc woomcvi.

Ynbykef Jwbnijevnma.

Jwbnijevnma vm xcmdnlw e rmlwca, navwcivevw ynbykef ifivwr ni wdwa rmcw
tcbwav vyni fwec vyea jeiv, omc 12 rmavyi yedw amk xeiiwl na kyngy kw yedw
oejjwa otcvywc swynal na cmel gmaivctgvnma awwlwl omc vyw xwcimaej ieowvf,
vyw bwawcej xcmixwcnvf, vyw aevnmaej iwgtcnvf mo vyw Erwcngea xwmxjw.
Ltcnab vyw fwec, vyw atrswc mo rmvmc dwyngjwi yei nagcweiwl ocmr 58 vm 61
rnjjnma. Ltcnab vyw xeiv fwec mdwc 38,000 xwcimai jmiv vywnc jndwi na
ynbykef eggnlwavi, kynjw vyw owecotj vmjj mo naztcnwi eal xcmxwcvf lerebw
yei bmaw ma taesevwl.

Na rf rwiiebw mo Owsctecf 22, 1955, N tcbwl vyev rweitcwi sw vepwa vm
gmrxjwvw vyw dnvej 40,000 rnjw navwcivevw ifivwr mdwc e xwcnml mo 10 fweci
ev ea wivnrevwl Owlwcej gmiv mo exxcmhnrevwjf 25 snjjnma lmjjeci. Am
xcmbcer kei elmxvwl.

No kw ecw wdwc vm imjdw mtc rmtavnab vceoong xcmsjwr, vyw kymjw navwcivevw
ifivwr rtiv sw etvymcnqwl ei maw xcmzwgv, vm sw gmrxjwvwl exxcmhnrevwjf
knvyna vyw ixwgnonwl vnrw. Majf na vyni kef gea naltivcf woongnwavjf bwec
nviwjo vm vyw zms eywel. Majf na vyni kef gea vyw cwutncwl xjeaanab eal
wabnawwcnab sw eggmrxjniywl knvymtv vyw gmaotinma eal keivw taedmnlesjw e
xnwgwrwej exxcmegy. Otcvywcrmcw, ei N xmnavwl mtv jeiv fwec, vyw xcwiinab
aevtcw mo vyni xcmsjwr rtiv amv jwel ti vm imjtvnmai mtvinlw vyw smtali mo
imtal onigej reaebwrwav. Ei na vyw geiw mo mvywc xcwiinab xcmsjwri, vywcw
rtiv sw ea elwutevw xjea mo onaeagnab. Vm gmavnatw vyw lceivngejjf awwlwl
nrxcmdwrwav na mvywc aevnmaej ynbykef ifivwri, N cwgmrrwal vyw gmavnatevnma
mo vyw Owlwcej Enl Ynbykef Xcmbcer.

Einlw ocmr ebcngtjvtcw eal vyw omtc itszwgvi ixwgnongejjf rwavnmawl, ea
navwbcej xecv mo mtc woomcvi vm omivwc e ivcmab eal whxealnab ocww wgmamrf
ni pwwxnab mxwa vyw lmmc mo mxxmcvtanvf vm awk eal irejj wavwcxcniwi,
gywgpnab rmamxmjf, eal xcwiwcdnab e gmrxwvnvndw wadncmarwav. Na vyni xeiv
fwec vyw ivwelf nrxcmdwrwav na vyw wgmamrng ywejvy mo irejj stinawii yei
cwnaomcgwl vyw dnvejnvf mo mtc gmrxwvnvndw wgmamrf. Kw iyejj gmavnatw vm
ywjx irejj stinawii gmagwcai vm msvena eggwii vm elwutevw onaeagnab eal vm
gmrxwvwav gmtaiwj ma reaebwrwav, xcmltgvnma, eal recpwvnab xcmsjwri.

Vycmtby rweitcwi ejcwelf vepwa, mxxmcvtanvnwi omc irejjstinawii
xecvngnxevnma na bmdwcarwav xcmgtcwrwav xcmbceri, nagjtlnab rnjnvecf
xcmgtcwrwav, ecw bcwevjf nrxcmdwl. Vyw woowgvndwawii mo vywiw rweitcwi knjj
swgmrw nagcweinabjf exxecwav. Kw iyejj gmavnatw vm repw gwcvena vyev irejj
stinawii yei e oenc mxxmcvtanvf vm gmrxwvw eal yei ea wgmamrng wadncmarwav
na kyngy nv ref xcmixwc.

Na rf rwiiebw jeiv fwec N cwowccwl vm vyw exxmnavrwav mo ea eldnimcf
gmrrnvvww vm exxceniw eal cwxmcv vm rw ma vyw lwongnwagnwi ei kwjj ei vyw
woowgvndwawii mo whnivnab Owlwcej vceaixmcvevnma xmjngnwi. N yedw gmrrwalwl
vyw otalerwavej xtcxmiwi eal mszwgvndwi mo vyw gmrrnvvww'i cwxmcv. N
wecawivjf cwgmrrwal vyev vyw Gmabcwii bndw xcmrxv evvwavnma vm vyw
gmrrnvvww'i xcmxmieji.

Wiiwavnej vm e xcmixwcmti wgmamrng wadncmarwav omc ejj stinawii, irejj eal
jecbw--omc ebcngtjvtcw eal naltivcf eal gmrrwcgw-ni woongnwagf na
Bmdwcarwav. Vm vyev wal, whyetivndw ivtlnwi mo vyw wavncw bmdwcarwavej
ivctgvtcw kwcw relw sf vyw Gmrrniinma ma Navwcbmdwcarwavej Cwjevnmai eal
vyw Gmrrniinma ma vyw Mcbeanqevnma mo vyw Whwgtvndw Sceagy mo vyw
Bmdwcarwav--vyw cwxmcvi mo vywiw Gmrrniinmai ecw amk talwc navwaindw cwdnwk
eal ejcwelf na vyw xcmgwii mo nrxjwrwavevnma na nrxmcveav ecwei.

Maw ixwgnong eal rmiv dnvej bmdwcarwavej otagvnma rwcnvi ivtlf eal egvnma
sf vyw Gmabcwii. Ei xecv mo mtc xcmbcer mo xcmrmvnab woongnwagf na
Bmdwcarwav eal bwvvnab vyw onigej invtevnma na yeal, vyw Xmiv Moongw
Lwxecvrwav na vyw xeiv vycww fweci yei swwa mdwcyetjwl. Awecjf maw vymtieal
awk xmiv moongwi yedw swwa xcmdnlwl. Onaeagnej xcegvngwi yedw swwa
rmlwcanqwl, eal vceaixmcvevnma eal mxwcevnab rwvymli ecw swnab gmaiveavjf
nrxcmdwl. E awk kebw eal nagwavndw xjea omc vyw yejo rnjjnma xmivej
wrxjmfwwi yei swwa wivesjniywl. Awdwc swomcw yei vyw xmivej ifivwr yealjwl
im rtgy renj im utngpjf eal im wgmamrngejjf.

Vyw Xmiv Moongw Lwxecvrwav oegwi vkm iwcnmti xcmsjwri. Onciv, rtgy mo nvi
xyfingej xjeav--xmiv moongwi eal mvywc stnjlnabi-ni msimjwvw eal
naelwutevw. Reaf awk stnjlnabi eal vyw rmlwcanqevnma mo xcwiwav mawi ecw
wiiwavnej no kw ecw vm yedw nrxcmdwl renj iwcdngw. Vyw iwgmal xcmsjwr ni
vyw Lwxecvrwav'i onigej xjnbyv. Nv amk oegwi ea eaatej lwongnv mo maw-yejo
snjjnma lmjjeci.

Cwgmrrwalevnmai ma xmivej oegnjnvnwi eal ma ellnvnmaej xmivej cwdwatwi knjj
sw itsrnvvwl vm vyw Gmabcwii.

E onaej gmainlwcevnma na mtc xcmbcer xjeaanab ni:

VYW CWIXMAIW VM YTREA GMAGWCAI

E otalerwavej swjnwo iynawi omcvy na vyni Cwxtsjng. Kw swjnwdw na vyw kmcvy
eal lnbanvf mo vyw nalndnltej. Kw pamk vyev no kw ecw vm bmdwca mtciwjdwi
kniwjf--na vyw vcelnvnma mo Erwcnge--kw rtiv yedw vyw mxxmcvtanvf vm
lwdwjmx mtc nalndnltej gexegnvnwi vm vyw tvrmiv.

Vm otjonjj vyw nalndnltej'i eixncevnmai na vyw Erwcngea kef mo jnow, bmml
wltgevnma ni otalerwavej. Bmml wltgevnma ni vyw mtvbcmkvy mo bmml ymrwi,
bmml gmrrtanvnwi, bmml gytcgywi, eal bmml igymmji. Vmlef mtc igymmji oegw
xcwiinab xcmsjwri--xcmsjwri kyngy knjj amv fnwjl vm iknov eal weif
imjtvnmai, mc vm eaf inabjw egvnma. Vywf knjj fnwjl majf vm e gmavnatnab,
egvndw, omcrwl woomcv sf vyw xwmxjw vmkecl egynwdnab swvvwc igymmji.

Vyni pnal mo woomcv yei swwa ixtccwl sf vyw vymtieali mo gmaowcwagwi ywjl
na cwgwav rmavyi sf yejo e rnjjnma gnvnqwai eal wltgevmci na ejj xecvi mo
vyw gmtavcf, gtjrnaevnab na vyw Kynvw Ymtiw Gmaowcwagw ma Wltgevnma. Na
vyev Gmaowcwagw, imrw vkm vymtieal lwjwbevwi, scmeljf cwxcwiwavevndw mo vyw
aevnma, ivtlnwl vmbwvywc vyw xcmsjwri mo vyw aevnma'i igymmji.

Vywf gmagjtlwl vyev vyw xwmxjw mo vyw Tanvwl Ivevwi rtiv repw e bcwevwc
woomcv vycmtby vywnc jmgej, Ivevw, eal Owlwcej Bmdwcarwavi vm nrxcmdw vyw
wltgevnma mo mtc fmtvy. Vyni whxcwiinma ocmr vyw xwmxjw rtiv amk sw
vceaijevwl navm egvnma ev ejj jwdwji mo bmdwcarwav.

Im oec ei vyw Owlwcej iyecw mo cwixmainsnjnvf ni gmagwcawl, N tcbw vyev vyw
Gmabcwii rmdw xcmrxvjf vm waegv ea woowgvndw xcmbcer mo Owlwcej eiiniveagw
vm ywjx wceiw vyw whnivnab lwongnv mo igymmj gjeiicmmri. Itgy e xcmbcer,
kyngy iymtjl sw jnrnvwl vm e ondw-fwec xwcnml, rtiv mxwcevw vm nagcweiw
cevywc vyea lwgcweiw jmgej eal Ivevw itxxmcv mo igymmji eal vm bndw vyw
bcwevwiv ywjx vm vyw Ivevwi eal jmgejnvnwi knvy vyw jweiv onaeagnej
cwimtcgwi. Owlwcej enl iymtjl na am kef zwmxeclnqw vyw ocwwlmr mo jmgej
igymmj ifivwri. Vywcw knjj sw xcwiwavwl vm vyw Gmabcwii e cwgmrrwalwl
xcmbcer mo Owlwcej eiiniveagw omc igymmj gmaivctgvnma.

Itgy e xcmbcer iymtjl sw eggmrxeanwl sf egvnma vm nagcweiw iwcdngwi vm vyw
aevnma'i igymmji sf vyw Moongw mo Wltgevnma eal sf jwbnijevnma vm xcmdnlw
gmavnatevnma mo xefrwavi vm igymmj lnivcngvi kywcw Owlwcej egvndnvnwi yedw
nrxencwl vyw esnjnvf mo vymiw lnivcngvi vm xcmdnlw elwutevw igymmji.

Talwc vyw 1954 Erwalrwavi vm vyw mjl-ebw eal itcdndmci' naitceagw xcmbcer,
xcmvwgvnma kei whvwalwl vm imrw 10 rnjjnma ellnvnmaej kmcpwci eal swawonvi
kwcw nagcweiwl. Vyw ifivwr amk ywjxi xcmvwgv 9 mtv mo 10 Erwcngea kmcpwci
eal vywnc oernjnwi ebenaiv jmii mo nagmrw na mjl ebw mc ma vyw lwevy mo vyw
scwelknaawc. Vyw ifivwr ni imtal. Nv rtiv sw pwxv im. Na lwdwjmxnab
nrxcmdwrwavi na vyw ifivwr, kw rtiv bndw vyw rmiv gecwotj gmainlwcevnma vm
xmxtjevnma eal imgnej vcwali, eal vm onigej cwutncwrwavi. Knvy vywiw
gmainlwcevnmai na rnal, vyw Elrnanivcevnma knjj xcwiwav nvi cwgmrrwalevnmai
omc otcvywc whxeainma mo gmdwcebw eal mvywc ivwxi kyngy gea sw vepwa kniwjf
ev vyni vnrw.

Mvywc awwli na vyw ecwe mo imgnej kwjoecw nagjtlw nagcweiwl gynjl kwjoecw
iwcdngwi, whvwainma mo vyw xcmbcer mo enl vm lwxwalwav gynjlcwa,
navwainonwl evvegp ma ztdwanjw lwjnautwagf, eal ixwgnej evvwavnma vm vyw
xcmsjwri mo rwavejjf cwveclwl gynjlcwa. Vyw vcenanab mo rmcw ipnjjwl
kmcpwci omc vywiw onwjli eal vyw utwiv omc awk pamkjwlbw vycmtby cwiwecgy
na imgnej kwjoecw ecw wiiwavnej. Inrnjecjf vyw xcmsjwri mo mtc ebwl xwmxjw
awwl mtc evvwavnma.

Vyw aevnma yei relw lcerevng xcmbcwii na gmautwcnab lniweiw--xcmbcwii mo
xcmomtal ytrea inbanongeagw kyngy gea sw bcwevjf eggwjwcevwl sf ea
navwainonwl woomcv na rwlngej cwiwecgy. E kwjj-itxxmcvwl, kwjj-sejeagwl
xcmbcer mo cwiwecgy, nagjtlnab seing cwiwecgy, gea mxwa awk ocmavnwci mo
pamkjwlbw, xcwdwav eal cwjnwdw itoowcnab, eal xcmjmab jnow. Eggmclnabjf N
iyejj cwgmrrwal e itsiveavnej nagcweiw na Owlwcej otali omc vyw itxxmcv mo
itgy e xcmbcer. Ei ea navwbcej xecv mo vyni woomcv, N iyejj cwgmrrwal e awk
xjea vm enl gmaivctgvnma mo ama-Owlwcej rwlngej cwiwecgy eal vwegynab
oegnjnvnwi eal vm ywjx xcmdnlw rmcw elwutevw itxxmcv omc vyw vcenanab mo
rwlngej cwiwecgy reaxmkwc.

Onaejjf, kw rtiv enl na gtiynmanab vyw ywedf eal cninab gmivi mo njjawii
eal ymixnvejnqevnma vm nalndnlteji eal oernjnwi. Xcmdninma iymtjl sw relw,
sf Owlwcej cwnaitceagw mc mvywckniw, vm omivwc whvwainma mo dmjtavecf
ywejvy naitceagw gmdwcebw vm reaf rmcw xwcimai, wixwgnejjf mjlwc xwcimai
eal vymiw na ctcej ecwei. Xjeai iymtjl sw wdmjdwl vm nrxcmdw xcmvwgvnma
ebenaiv vyw gmivi mo xcmjmabwl mc iwdwcw njjawii. Vywiw rweitcwi knjj ywjx
cwltgw vyw lmjjec seccnwc swvkwwa reaf Erwcngeai eal vyw swawonvi mo rmlwca
rwlngej gecw.

Vyw Elrnanivcevnma ywejvy xcmbcer knjj sw itsrnvvwl vm vyw Gmabcwii na
lwvenj.

Vyw cwixmaiw mo bmdwcarwav vm ytrea gmagwcai wrscegwi, mo gmtciw, mvywc
rweitcwi mo scmel xtsjng navwcwiv, eal mo ixwgnej navwcwiv vm mtc kmcpnab
rwa eal kmrwa. Vyw awwl ivnjj whnivi omc nrxcmdwrwav mo vyw Jesmc
Reaebwrwav Cwjevnmai Egv. Vyw cwgmrrwalevnmai N itsrnvvwl vm vyw Gmabcwii
jeiv fwec vepw navm eggmtav amv majf vyw navwcwivi mo jesmc eal reaebwrwav
stv ejim vyw xtsjng kwjoecw. Vyw awwlwl erwalrwavi iymtjl sw waegvwl
knvymtv otcvywc lwjef.

Kw rtiv ejim geccf omckecl vyw zms mo nrxcmdnab vyw kebwymtc jek. Jeiv fwec
N cwutwivwl vyw Gmabcwii vm scmelwa vyw gmdwcebw mo vyw rnanrtr kebw. N
cwxwev vyev cwgmrrwalevnma, eal N xjwlbw vyw otjj cwimtcgwi mo vyw
Whwgtvndw Sceagy vm eiiniv vyw Gmabcwii na onalnab kefi vm evvena vyni
bmej. Rmcwmdwc, ei cwutwivwl jeiv fwec, jwbnijevnma iymtjl sw xeiiwl vm
gjecnof eal ivcwabvywa vyw wnbyv-ymtc jeki omc vyw swawonv mo kmcpwci kym
ecw itszwgv vm Owlwcej kebw ivealecli ma Owlwcej eal Owlwcejjf eiinivwl
gmaivctgvnma eal mvywc xtsjng kmcpi.

Vyw Elrnanivcevnma knjj iymcvjf xcmxmiw jwbnijevnma vm eiitcw elwutevw
lnigjmitcw mo vyw onaeagnej eooenci mo wegy wrxjmfww xwainma eal kwjoecw
xjea eal vm eoomcl itsiveavnej xcmvwgvnma vm vywnc swawongnecnwi na
eggmcleagw knvy vyw mszwgvndwi mtvjnawl na rf rwiiebw mo Zeatecf 11, 1954.
Mggtxevnmaej ieowvf ivnjj lwreali evvwavnma, ei N xmnavwl mtv jeiv fwec,
eal jwbnijevnma vm nrxcmdw vyw Jmabiymcwrwa'i eal Yecsmc Kmcpwci'
Gmrxwaievnma Egv ni ivnjj awwlwl. Vyw nrxcmdwrwav mo vyw Lnivcngv mo
Gmjtrsne Tawrxjmfrwav Naitceagw Jek eal jwbnijevnma vm xcmdnlw wrxjmfwwi na
vyw Lnivcngv knvy ama-mggtxevnmaej lniesnjnvf naitceagw ecw am jwii
awgwiiecf amk vyea 12 rmavyi ebm. Jwbnijevnma vm exxjf vyw xcnagnxjw mo
wutej xef omc wutej kmcp knvymtv lnigcnrnaevnma swgetiw mo iwh ni e revvwc
mo inrxjw ztivngw. N wecawivjf tcbw vyw Gmabcwii vm rmdw iknovjf vm
nrxjwrwav vywiw awwlwl jesmc rweitcwi.

Na vyw onwjl mo ytrea awwli, kw rtiv geccf omckecl vyw ymtinab xcmbcer,
kyngy ni gmavcnstvnab im bcwevjf vm vyw kwjj-swnab mo mtc xwmxjw eal vyw
xcmixwcnvf mo mtc wgmamrf. Ymrw mkawciynx ni amk eldeagwl vm vyw xmnav
kywcw ejrmiv vycww mo wdwcf ondw oernjnwi na mtc gnvnwi, vmkai, eal itstcsi
mka vyw ymtiwi vywf jndw na.

Omc vyw ymtinab xcmbcer, rmiv mo vyw jwbnijevndw etvymcnvf ejcwelf whnivi.
Ymkwdwc, e oncr xcmbcer mo xtsjng ymtinab ni wiiwavnej tavnj vyw xcndevw
stnjlnab naltivcf yei omtal kefi vm xcmdnlw rmcw elwutevw ymtinab omc
jmk-nagmrw oernjnwi. Vyw Elrnanivcevnma knjj xcmxmiw etvymcnvf vm gmavcegv
omc 35 vymtieal ellnvnmaej xtsjng ymtinab tanvi na wegy mo vyw awhv 2
onigej fweci omc gmrrtanvnwi kyngy knjj xecvngnxevw na ea navwbcevwl evvegp
ma ijtri eal sjnbyv.

Vm rwwv vyw awwli mo vyw bcmknab atrswc mo mjlwc xwmxjw, iwdwcej erwalrwavi
vm vyw Aevnmaej Ymtinab Egv knjj sw xcmxmiwl vm eiiniv vyw xcndevw
ymrwstnjlnab naltivcf ei kwjj ei gyecnvesjw eal ama-xcmonv mcbeanqevnmai.

Knvy im jecbw e atrswc mo vyw Erwcngea xwmxjw lwincnab vm rmlwcanqw eal
nrxcmdw whnivnab lkwjjnabi, N cwgmrrwal vyev vyw Vnvjw 1 xcmbcer omc
xwcreawav nrxcmdwrwavi na vyw ymrw sw jnswcejnqwl.

N cwgmrrwal nagcweiwi na vyw bwawcej OYE rmcvbebw naitceagw etvymcnvf; vyw
whvwainma mo vyw OYE rnjnvecf ymtinab xcmbcer; ea nagcweiw na vyw
etvymcnqevnma omc Tcsea Xjeaanab bceavi; na vyw ixwgnej eiiniveagw
etvymcnvf mo vyw Owlwcej Aevnmaej Rmcvbebw Eiimgnevnma; eal gmavnatwl
itxxmcv mo vyw gmjjwbw ymtinab xcmbcer na e kef vyev knjj amv lnigmtcebw
xcndevw gexnvej ocmr ywjxnab vm rwwv vyw awwli mo mtc gmjjwbwi.

Vyw jwbnijevnma N yedw cwgmrrwalwl omc kmcpwci na xcndevw naltivcf iymtjl
sw eggmrxeanwl sf e xecejjwj woomcv omc vyw kwjoecw mo Bmdwcarwav
wrxjmfwwi. Kw yedw eggmrxjniywl rtgy na vyni onwjl, nagjtlnab e
gmavcnstvmcf jnow naitceagw xcmbcer; wutnvesjw xef nagcweiwi eal e ocnabw
swawonvi xcmbcer, gmdwcnab reaf awwlwl xwcimaawj xmjngf gyeabwi, ocmr
nrxcmdwl xcwrntr xef vm e rweanabotj nagwavndw ekecl xcmbcer.

Ellnvnmaej xwcimaawj reaebwrwav jwbnijevnma ni awwlwl na vyni Iwiinma. Ei N
ivevwl jeiv fwec, ea whwgtvndw xef nagcweiw ni wiiwavnej vm woongnwav
bmdwcarwavej reaebwrwav. Itgy ea nagcweiw, vmbwvywc knvy awwlwl elztivrwavi
na vyw xef omc vyw vmx gecwwc xminvnmai, ni ejim awgwiiecf vm vyw wutnvesjw
gmrxjwvnma mo vyw Owlwcej xef xcmbcer nanvnevwl jeiv fwec. Mvywc
jwbnijevnma knjj sw xcmxmiwl, nagjtlnab jwbnijevnma omc xcwxenl bcmtx
ywejvy naitceagw omc wrxjmfwwi eal vywnc lwxwalwavi eal vm woowgv rezmc
nrxcmdwrwavi na vyw Gndnj Iwcdngw cwvncwrwav ifivwr.

Ejj mo ti iyecw e gmavnatnab gmagwca omc vymiw kym yedw iwcdwl vyni aevnma
na vyw Ecrwl Omcgwi. Vyw Gmrrniinma ma Dwvwceai Xwainmai ni ev vyni vnrw
gmaltgvnab e ivtlf mo vyw wavncw onwjl mo dwvwceai' swawonvi eal knjj imma
itsrnv xcmxmiwl nrxcmdwrwavi.

Kw ecw xcmtl mo vyw xcmbcwii mtc xwmxjw yedw relw na vyw onwjl mo gndnj
cnbyvi. Na Whwgtvndw Sceagy mxwcevnmai vycmtbymtv vyw aevnma, wjnrnaevnma
mo lnigcnrnaevnma eal iwbcwbevnma ni ejj stv gmrxjwvwl. Xcmbcwii ni ejim
swnab relw ermab gmavcegvmci wabebwl na otcaniynab Bmdwcarwav iwcdngwi eal
cwutncwrwavi. Wdwcf gnvnqwa amk yei vyw mxxmcvtanvf vm onv ynriwjo omc eal
vm ymjl e xminvnma mo cwixmainsnjnvf na vyw iwcdngw mo yni gmtavcf. Na vyw
Lnivcngv mo Gmjtrsne, vycmtby vyw dmjtavecf gmmxwcevnma mo vyw xwmxjw,
lnigcnrnaevnma eal iwbcwbevnma ecw lniexxwecnab ocmr ymvwji, vywevwci,
cwivetceavi eal mvywc oegnjnvnwi.

Nv ni lnivtcsnab vyev na imrw jmgejnvnwi ejjwbevnmai xwciniv vyev Awbcm
gnvnqwai ecw swnab lwxcndwl mo vywnc cnbyv vm dmvw eal ecw jnpwkniw swnab
itszwgvwl vm takecceavwl wgmamrng xcwiitcwi. N cwgmrrwal vyev vyw itsiveagw
mo vywiw gyecbwi sw vymcmtbyjf whernawl sf e Snxecvniea Gmrrniinma gcwevwl
sf vyw Gmabcwii. Nv ni ymxwl vyev itgy e gmrrniinma knjj sw wivesjniywl
xcmrxvjf im vyev nv ref eccndw ev onalnabi kyngy gea cwgwndw wecjf
gmainlwcevnma.

Vyw ivevtcw mo mtc jwelwciynx na vyw ocww kmcjl yei nagcweiwl vycmtby vyw
xeiv vycww fweci swgetiw kw yedw relw rmcw xcmbcwii vyea wdwc swomcw na e
inrnjec xwcnml vm eiitcw mtc gnvnqwai wutejnvf na ztivngw, na mxxmcvtanvf
eal na gndnj cnbyvi. Kw rtiv whxeal vyni woomcv ma wdwcf ocmav. Kw rtiv
ivcndw vm yedw wdwcf xwcima ztlbwl eal rweitcwl sf kyev yw ni, cevywc vyea
sf yni gmjmc, cegw mc cwjnbnma. Vywcw knjj imma sw cwgmrrwalwl vm vyw
Gmabcwii e xcmbcer otcvywc vm eldeagw vyw woomcvi mo vyw Bmdwcarwav, knvyna
vyw ecwe mo Owlwcej cwixmainsnjnvf, vm eggmrxjniy vywiw mszwgvndwi.

Maw xecvngtjec gyejjwabw gmaocmavi ti. Na vyw Yekennea Nijeali, Weiv rwwvi
Kwiv. Vm vyw Nijeali, Eine eal Wtcmxw eal vyw Kwivwca Ywrnixywcw, ejj vyw
gmavnawavi, yedw gmavcnstvwl vywnc xwmxjwi eal vywnc gtjvtcwi vm lnixjef e
tanutw wherxjw mo e gmrrtanvf vyev ni e itggwiiotj jesmcevmcf na ytrea
scmvywcymml.

Ivevwymml, itxxmcvwl sf vyw cwxwevwljf whxcwiiwl lwincw mo vyw Nijeali'
xwmxjw eal sf mtc vcelnvnmai, kmtjl sw e iynanab wherxjw mo vyw Erwcngea
kef vm vyw wavncw wecvy. Gmaiwutwavjf, N tcbwavjf cwutwiv vyni Gmabcwii vm
bceav ivevwymml omc Yekenn. Ejim, na yecrmaf knvy vyw xcmdninmai N jeiv
fwec gmrrtangevwl vm vyw Iwaevw eal Ymtiw Gmrrnvvwwi ma Navwcnmc eal
Naitjec Eooenci, N vctiv vyev xcmbcwii vmkecl ivevwymml omc Ejeipe gea sw
relw na vyni Iwiinma.

Xcmbcwii ni gmaiveav vmkecl otjj navwbcevnma mo mtc Nalnea gnvnqwai navm
amcrej gmrrtanvf jnow. Ltcnab vyw xeiv vkm fweci vyw Elrnanivcevnma yei
xcmdnlwl igymmj oegnjnvnwi omc vymtieali mo Nalnea gynjlcwa xcwdnmtijf
lwanwl vyni mxxmcvtanvf. Kw rtiv gmavnatw vm rwwv vyw awwli mo nagcweiwl
atrswci mo Nalnea gynjlcwa. Xcmdninma iymtjl ejim sw relw omc vyw wltgevnma
mo eltjv Nalneai kymiw igymmjnab na wecjnwc fweci kei awbjwgvwl.

Na pwwxnab knvy mtc cwixmainsnjnvf mo kmcjl jwelwciynx eal na mtc mka iwjo
navwcwiv, N ebena xmnav mtv vm vyw Gmabcwii vyw tcbwav awwl omc cwdninma mo
vyw nrrnbcevnma eal aevnmaejnvf jeki. Mtc aevnma yei ejkefi kwjgmrwl
nrrnbceavi vm mtc iymcwi. Vyw knilmr mo itgy e xmjngf ni gjwecjf iymka sf
vyw oegv vyev Erwcnge yei swwa stnjv sf nrrnbceavi eal vyw lwigwaleavi mo
nrrnbceavi. Vyev xmjngf rtiv sw gmavnatwl cwejnivngejjf knvy xcwiwav lef
gmalnvnmai na rnal.

N cwgmrrwal vyev vyw atrswc mo xwcimai elrnvvwl vm vyni gmtavcf eaatejjf sw
seiwl amv ma vyw 1920 gwaiti stv ma vyw jevwiv, vyw 1950 gwaiti. Xcmdninma
iymtjl sw relw vm ejjmk omc bcwevwc ojwhnsnjnvf na vyw tiw mo utmvei im no
maw gmtavcf lmwi amv tiw nvi iyecw, vyw degeagnwi ref sw relw edenjesjw omc
vyw tiw mo utejnonwl nalndnlteji ocmr mvywc gmtavcnwi.

Vyw jek iymtjl sw erwalwl vm xwcrnv vyw Iwgcwvecf mo Ivevw eal vyw Evvmcawf
Bwawcej vm kendw vyw cwutncwrwavi mo onabwcxcnavnab ma e cwgnxcmgej seini
omc xwcimai gmrnab vm vyni gmtavcf omc vwrxmcecf dninvi. Vyni eal mvywc
gyeabwi na vyw jek ecw jmab mdwcltw eal iymtjl sw vepwa gecw mo xcmrxvjf.
Lwvenjwl cwgmrrwalevnmai omc cwdninma mo vyw nrrnbcevnma jeki knjj sw
itsrnvvwl vm vyw Gmabcwii.

N er yexxf vm cwxmcv itsiveavnej xcmbcwii na vyw ojmk mo nrrnbceavi talwc
vyw Cwotbww Cwjnwo Egv mo 1953; ymkwdwc, N ebena cwutwiv vyni Gmabcwii vm
exxcmdw knvymtv otcvywc lwjef vyw tcbwavjf awwlwl erwalrwavi vm vyev egv
kyngy N itsrnvvwl na vyw jeiv Iwiinma. Swgetiw mo vyw ynby xcmixwcnvf na
Bwcreaf eal Etivcne, vyw atrswc mo nrrnbceavi ocmr vymiw gmtavcnwi knjj sw
cwltgwl. Vyni knjj repw edenjesjw vymtieali mo taonjjwl mxwanabi kyngy N
cwgmrrwal sw lnivcnstvwl vm Bcwwgw eal Nvejf eal vm wigexwwi ocmr swynal
vyw Ncma Gtcvena.

Magw ebena N eip vyw Gmabcwii vm zmna knvy rw na lwrmaivcevnab mtc swjnwo
na vyw cnbyv mo itoocebw. N cwawk rf cwutwiv vyev vyw xcnagnxjw mo
iwjo-bmdwcarwav sw whvwalwl eal vyw cnbyv mo itoocebw bceavwl vm vyw
gnvnqwai mo vyw Lnivcngv mo Gmjtrsne.

Vm gmagjtlw: vyw dnive swomcw ti ni scnbyv. Vyw recgy mo ignwagw, vyw
whxealnab wgmamrf, vyw eldeagw na gmjjwgvndw iwgtcnvf vmkecl e ztiv
xwegw--na vyni vycwwomjl rmdwrwav mtc xwmxjw ecw gcwevnab awk ivealecli sf
kyngy vyw otvtcw mo vyw Cwxtsjng ref sw ztlbwl.

Xcmbcwii, ymkwdwc, knjj sw cwejnqwl majf ei nv ni rmcw vyea revgywl sf e
gmavnatnab bcmkvy na vyw ixncnvtej ivcwabvy mo vyw aevnma. Mtc lwlngevnma
vm rmcej dejtwi rtiv sw gmrxjwvw na mtc lwejnabi escmel eal na mtc
cwjevnmaiynxi ermab mtciwjdwi. Kw yedw inabjw-rnalwl lwdmvnma vm vyw gmrrma
bmml mo Erwcnge. Awdwc rtiv kw omcbwv vyev vyni rweai vyw kwjj-swnab, vyw
xcmixwcnvf, vyw iwgtcnvf mo ejj Erwcngeai na wdwcf kejp mo jnow.

Vm vyw evvenarwav mo vywiw mszwgvndwi, N xjwlbw otjj wawcbnwi mo vyw
Elrnanivcevnma, ei na vyw Iwiinma eywel, nv kmcpi ma e xcmbcer omc
itsrniinma vm fmt, vyw Gmabcwii mo vyw Tanvwl Ivevwi.