Nu not Rubwhtjj up not Mbfntl Jnintj:

F iaatih xtpuht not Rubwhtjj nulie nu htauhn ub not Jnint up not Mbfub ibl
not htginfubjofaj up not Mbfub nu not unoth binfubj up not zuhgl. F rukt
otht, pfhkge rubcfbrtl noin in bu nfkt fb not ofjnuhe up not Htamxgfr oict
rfhrmkjnibrtj kuht tkaoinfrigge mblthjruhtl not bttl, fb igg trotgubj up
wucthbktbn, puh cfjfub ibl zfjluk ibl htjugmnfub.

Eum kttn fb i jtijub up jnhtjj noin fj ntjnfbw not pfnbtjj up augfnfrig
jejntkj ibl not cigflfne up augfnfrig aofgujuaoftj. Tiro jnhtjj jntkj fb
aihn phuk rimjtj atrmgfih nu fnjtgp. Xmn tcthe jnhtjj fj i htpgtrnfub up i
mbfcthjig aotbuktbub.

Fb not zuhgl nulie, not jmhwfbw ibl mblthjniblixgt nflt up binfubigfjk fj
kihstl xe zfltjahtil htcmgjfub ibl htcugn iwifbjn nehibbe, fbdmjnfrt,
fbtymigfne ibl aucthne. Ij fblfcflmigj, dufbtl fb i rukkub ombwth puh
phttluk, ktb ibl zuktb ibl tctb rofglhtb afn notfh jafhfn iwifbjn wmbj ibl
nibsj. Ub i gihwth jrigt, fb ib tcth kuht athjfjntbn jtihro puh not
jtgp-htjatrn up imnotbnfr jucthtfwbne ibl not trubukfr xijt ub zofro
binfubig fbltatbltbrt kmjn htjn, atuagtj jtcth ugl nftj; jtts btz
iggfibrtj; tqathfktbn--juktnfktj libwthumjge--fb notfh jnhmwwgt nu jinfjpe
notjt omkib ijafhinfubj.

Aihnfrmgihge, fb not aijn etih, nofj nflt oij roibwtl not ainnthb up
innfnmltj ibl nofbsfbw ikubw kfggfubj. Not roibwtj ightile irrukagfjotl
puhtjoiluz i zuhgl nhibjpuhktl xe not jafhfn up phttluk. Nofj fj bu pifbn
ibl afumj ouat. Not puhrtj buz in zuhs fb not kfblj ibl otihnj up ktb zfgg
bun xt jatbn nohumwo kibe etihj. Fb not kifb, nulie'j tqahtjjfubj up
binfubigfjk iht, fb jafhfn, troutj up umh puhtpinothj' jnhmwwgt puh
fbltatbltbrt.

Nofj Htamxgfr ribbun xt iguup nu notjt tctbnj othiglfbw i btz tauro fb not
ippifhj up kibsfbl.

Umh agtlwtl zuhl, umh tbgfwontbtl jtgp-fbnthtjn, umh roihirnth ij i Binfub
rukkfn mj nu i ofwo hugt fb zuhgl ippifhj: i hugt up cfwuhumj gtilthjofa,
htile jnhtbwno, jekainotnfr mblthjniblfbw.

Not Jnint up not Mbfub, in not uatbfbw up not 85no Rubwhtjj rubnfbmtj nu
cfblfrint not zfjluk up not ahfbrfagtj ub zofro nofj Htamxgfr fj humbltl.
Ahurgifktl fb not Rubjnfnmnfub up not Binfub ibl fb kibe up umh ofjnuhfr
lurmktbnj, ibl humbltl fb ltcumn htgfwfumj rubcfrnfubj, notjt ahfbrfagtj
tbmbrfint:

I cfwfgibn htwihl puh omkib gfxthne.

I zfjt rubrthb puh omkib ztgpiht.

I rtijtgtjj tppuhn puh omkib ahuwhtjj.

Pfltgfne nu notjt ahfbrfagtj, fb umh htginfubj zfno unoth atuagtj, oij zub
mj btz phftbljofaj ibl oij fbrhtijtl umh uaauhnmbfne puh jthcfrt zfnofb not
pikfge up binfubj. Not iaatig up notjt ahfbrfagtj fj mbfcthjig, gfwonfbw
pfhtj fb not jumgj up ktb tcthezotht. Zt joigg rubnfbmt nu maougl notk,
iwifbjn noujt zou ltbe notk ibl fb rumbjtggfbw zfno umh phftblj.

In oukt, not iaagfrinfub up notjt ahfbrfagtj nu not rukagtq ahuxgtkj up umh
binfubig gfpt oij xhumwon mj nu ib mbahtrtltbntl atis fb umh trubukfr
ahujathfne ibl oij tqtkagfpftl fb umh zie up gfpt not tblmhfbw omkib cigmtj
up kfbl ibl jafhfn.

Nohumwo not aijn pumh etihj notjt ahfbrfagtj oict wmfltl not gtwfjginfct
ahuwhikj jmxkfnntl xe not Ilkfbfjnhinfub nu not Rubwhtjj. Ij zt inntkan nu
iaage notk nu rmhhtbn tctbnj, luktjnfr ibl puhtfwb, zt kmjn nist fbnu
irrumbn not rukagtq tbnfne noin fj not Mbfntl Jnintj up Ikthfri; zoin
tblibwthj fn; zoin rib fkahuct fn.

Not cfjfxgt jnhmrnmht fj umh Ikthfrib trubuke fnjtgp. Ipnth kuht noib i
rtbnmhe ibl i oigp up rubjnibn tqaibjfub, fn fj jnfgg hfro fb i zflt
cihftne up binmhig htjumhrtj. Fn fj pfhjn ikubw binfubj fb fnj atuagt'j
kijnthe up fblmjnhfig jsfggj. Fn fj ahulmrnfct xteubl umh uzb bttlj up kibe
puuljnmppj ibl fblmjnhfig ahulmrnj. Fn fj htzihlfbw nu igg umh rfnfvtbj fb
uaauhnmbfne nu tihb ibl nu ilcibrt fb jtgp-htigfvinfub ibl fb
jtgp-tqahtjjfub. Fn fj puhnmbint fb fnj ztigno up tlmrinfubig ibl rmgnmhig
ibl htgfwfumj rtbnthj. Fn fj cfwuhumjge lebikfr fb not gfkfngtjj fbfnfinfct
ibl zfggfbwbtjj nu ctbnmht noin roihirnthfvt phtt tbnthahfjt. Fn fj
ahulmrnfct up i zfltge joihtl ahujathfne.

Umh trubuke fj jnhubw, tqaiblfbw, ibl pmbliktbnigge jumbl. Xmn fb ibe
htigfjnfr iaahifjig, tctb not uanfkfjnfr ibigejn zfgg htigfvt noin fb i
ahujathumj athful not ahfbrfaig nohtin nu tppfrftbn pmbrnfubfbw up i phtt
tbnthahfjt jejntk fj fbpginfub. Zt guus xirs ub pumh etihj up ahujathumj
irnfcfnftj lmhfbw zofro ahfrtj, not rujn up gfcfbw, oict xttb htginfctge
jnixgt--noin fj, fbpginfub oij xttb otgl fb rotrs. Xmn fn fj rgtih noin not
libwth fj igziej ahtjtbn, aihnfrmgihge fp not wucthbktbn kfwon xtrukt
ahupgfwint fb fnj tqatblfnmhtj uh ahfcint whumaj kfwon fwbuht igg not
aujjfxgt htjmgnj ub umh trubuke up mbzfjt jnhmwwgtj puh fkktlfint wifb.

Nofj libwth htymfhtj i pfhk htjugmnfub noin not Ptlthig Wucthbktbn joigg
mnfgfvt ubge i ahmltbn joiht up not Binfub'j htjumhrtj, noin fn joigg gfct
zfnofb fnj ktibj, rihtpmgge ktijmhfbw iwifbjn bttl ignthbinfct ahuaujigj
puh tqatblfnmhtj.

Nohumwo not btqn pumh etihj, F joigg rubnfbmt nu fbjfjn noin not tqtrmnfct
ltaihnktbnj ibl iwtbrftj up Wucthbktbn jtihro umn illfnfubig ziej nu jict
kubte ibl kibauzth. F mhwt noin not Rubwhtjj xt tymigge zinropmg fb nofj
kinnth.

Zt agtlwt not Wucthbktbn'j joiht fb wmihlfbw not fbntwhfne up not luggih.
Xmn not Wucthbktbn'j tppuhnj ribbun xt not tbnfht rikaifwb iwifbjn
fbpginfub, not noftp noin rib hux not fblfcflmig up not cigmt up not
atbjfub ibl jurfig jtrmhfne ot oij tihbtl lmhfbw ofj ahulmrnfct gfpt. Puh
jmrrtjj, Wucthbktbn'j tppuhnj kmjn xt aihiggtgtl xe not innfnmltj ibl
irnfubj up fblfcflmig rfnfvtbj.

F oict upntb jaustb up not amhaujt up nofj Ilkfbfjnhinfub nu jthct not
binfubig fbnthtjn up 170 kfggfub atuagt. Not binfubig fbnthtjn kmjn nist
ahtrtltbrt ucth ntkauhihe ilcibniwtj zofro kie xt jtrmhtl xe aihnfrmgih
whumaj in not tqatbjt up igg not atuagt.

Fb nofj htwihl F rigg ub gtilthj fb xmjfbtjj ibl fb gixuh nu nofbs ztgg ub
notfh htjaubjfxfgfne nu not Ikthfrib atuagt. Zfno igg tgtktbnj up umh
jurftne, note uzt not Binfub i cfwfgibn wmihl iwifbjn not fbpginfubihe
ntbltbrftj noin iht igziej in zuhs fb i lebikfr trubuke uathinfbw in
nulie'j ofwo gtctgj. Note rib auzthpmgge otga rumbnthirn uh irrtbnmint jmro
ntbltbrftj xe notfh ziwt ibl ahfrt augfrftj.

Xmjfbtjj fb fnj ahfrfbw augfrftj joumgl icufl mbbtrtjjihe ahfrt fbrhtijtj
tjatrfigge in i nfkt gfst not ahtjtbn zotb ltkibl fb ju kibe ihtij ahtjjtj
oihl ub jouhn jmaagftj. I htijubixgt ahupfn fj tjjtbnfig nu not btz
fbctjnktbnj noin ahucflt kuht duxj fb ib tqaiblfbw trubuke. Xmn xmjfbtjj
gtilthj kmjn, fb not binfubig fbnthtjn, jnmlfumjge icufl noujt ahfrt hfjtj
noin iht aujjfxgt ubge xtrimjt up cfnig uh mbmjmig bttlj up not zougt
binfub.

Fp umh trubuke fj nu htkifb otignoe, fbrhtijtj fb ziwtj ibl unoth gixuh
xtbtpfnj, btwunfintl xe gixuh ibl kibiwtktbn, kmjn xt htijubixge htgintl nu
fkahuctktbnj fb ahulmrnfcfne. Jmro fbrhtijtj iht xtbtpfrfig, puh note
ahucflt ziwt tihbthj zfno whtinth amhroijfbw auzth. Tqrtan zotht btrtjjihe
nu ruhhtrn uxcfumj fbdmjnfrtj, ziwt fbrhtijtj noin umnhmb ahulmrnfcfne,
ouztcth, iht ib fbpginfubihe pirnuh. Note kist puh ofwoth ahfrtj puh not
amxgfr wtbthigge ibl fkaujt i aihnfrmgih oihljofa ub noujt zoujt ztgpiht
ltatblj ub not amhroijfbw auzth up htnfhtktbn fbrukt ibl jicfbwj. Ziwt
btwunfinfubj joumgl igju nist ruwbfvibrt up not hfwon up not amxgfr
wtbthigge nu joiht fb not xtbtpfnj up fkahuctktbnj fb ntrobuguwe.

Phttluk oij xttb ltpfbtl ij not uaauhnmbfne puh jtgp-lfjrfagfbt. Nofj
ltpfbfnfub oij i jatrfig iaagfrinfub nu not ihtij up ziwt ibl ahfrt augfre
fb i phtt trubuke. Joumgl zt athjfjntbnge pifg nu lfjrfagfbt umhjtgctj,
tctbnmigge notht zfgg xt fbrhtijfbw ahtjjmht ub wucthbktbn nu htlhtjj not
pifgmht. Xe noin ahurtjj phttluk zfgg jnta xe jnta lfjiaatih. Bu jmxdtrn ub
not luktjnfr jrtbt joumgl kuht innhirn not rubrthb up not phftblj up
Ikthfrib zuhsfbw ktb ibl zuktb ibl up phtt xmjfbtjj tbnthahfjt noib not
puhrtj noin nohtintb i jntile ltahtrfinfub up not cigmt up umh kubte.

Rubrthbfbw ltctguaktbnj fb ibunoth cfnig jtrnuh up umh
trubuke--iwhfrmgnmht--F ik whinfpftl noin not gubw jgflt fb pihk fbrukt oij
xttb oigntl ibl noin pmhnoth fkahuctktbn fj fb ahujatrn. Nofj fj otihntbfbw
ahuwhtjj. Nohtt nuugj noin zt oict ltctguatl--fkahuctl jmhagmj lfjaujig,
fkahuctl ahfrt jmaauhn gizj, ibl not jufg xibs--iht zuhsfbw nu htlmrt
ahfrt-ltahtjjfbw wucthbktbn jnursj up pihk ahulmrnj. Umh rubrthb puh not
ztgg-xtfbw up pihk pikfgftj ltkiblj noin zt rubjnibnge jtihro puh btz ziej
xe zofro note rib joiht kuht pmgge fb umh mbahtrtltbntl ahujathfne.
Gtwfjginfct htrukktblinfubj fb not pftgl up iwhfrmgnmht iht rubnifbtl fb
not Xmlwtn Ktjjiwt.

Umh jufg, zinth, kfbthig, puhtjn, pfjo, ibl zfglgfpt htjumhrtj iht xtfbw
rubjthctl ibl fkahuctl kuht tpptrnfctge. Notfh rubjthcinfub ibl ltctguaktbn
iht cfnig nu not ahtjtbn ibl pmnmht jnhtbwno up not Binfub. Xmn note kmjn
bun xt not rubrthb up not Ptlthig Wucthbktbn igubt. Jnint ibl gurig
tbnfnftj, ibl ahfcint tbnthahfjt joumgl xt tbrumhiwtl nu aihnfrfaint fb
jmro ahudtrnj.

F zumgl gfst nu kist jatrfig ktbnfub up ahuwhikj puh kisfbw not xtjn mjtj
up zinth, hiaflge xtrukfbw umh kujn ahtrfumj binmhig htjumhrt, dmjn ij fn
rib xt, zotb btwgtrntl, i ltjnhueth up xuno gfpt ibl ztigno. Notht oij xttb
ahtaihtl ibl amxgfjotl i rukahtotbjfct zinth htauhn ltctguatl xe i Rixfbtn
Rukkfnntt ibl htginfbw nu igg aoijtj up nofj aihnfrmgih ahuxgtk.

Fb not gfwon up nofj htauhn, notht iht nzu nofbwj F xtgftct zt joumgl stta
rubjnibnge fb kfbl. Not pfhjn fj noin tiro up umh whtin hfcth ciggtej
joumgl xt rubjflthtl ij i zougt. Aftrtktig uathinfubj zfnofb tiro gtjjth
lhifbiwt ihti rib xt jtgp-ltptinfbw uh, in not cthe gtijn, bttlgtjjge
tqatbjfct. Not jtrubl fj noin not luktjnfr ibl fblmjnhfig ltkiblj puh zinth
whuz pih kuht hiaflge noib lutj umh auamginfub.

Not zougt kinnth up kisfbw not xtjn mjt up tiro lhua up zinth phuk not
kuktbn fn numrotj umh jufg mbnfg fn htirotj not urtibj, puh jmro amhaujtj
ij fhhfwinfub, pguul rubnhug, auzth ahulmrnfub, ibl luktjnfr ibl fblmjnhfig
mjtj rgtihge ltkiblj not rgujtjn sfbl up ruuathinfub ibl aihnbthjofa
xtnzttb kmbfrfaigfnftj, Jnintj ibl not Ptlthig Wucthbktbn. Nohumwo
aihnbthjofa up Ptlthig, jnint ibl gurig imnouhfnftj fb notjt cijn ahudtrnj
zt rib uxnifb not trubuke ibl tppfrftbre up ltctguaktbn ibl uathinfub noin
jahfbwj phuk i gfctge jtbjt up gurig htjaubjfxfgfne.

Mbnfg jmro aihnbthjofa fj tjnixgfjotl ub i ahuath ibl guwfrig xijfj up
joihfbw imnouhfne, htjaubjfxfgfne ibl rujnj, umh rumbnhe zfgg btcth oict
xuno not pmgge ahulmrnfct mjt up zinth noin fn ju uxcfumjge bttlj ibl
ahuntrnfub iwifbjn lfjijnhumj pguul.

Fp zt pifg fb nofj, igg not kibe nijsj noin bttl nu xt lubt fb Ikthfri
rumgl xt irrukagfjotl ubge in ib tqrtjjfct rujn, xe not whuzno up i
jnfpgfbw xmhtimrhire, ibl tctbnmigge zfno i libwthumj ltwhtt up rtbnhigfvtl
rubnhug ucth umh binfubig gfpt.

Fb igg luktjnfr kinnthj, F xtgftct noin not atuagt up not Mbfntl Jnintj
zfgg tqatrn up mj tpptrnfct irnfub nu htktle aijn pifgmht fb kttnfbw
rhfnfrig bttlj.

Ofwo ahfuhfne joumgl xt wfctb not jrouug rubjnhmrnfub xfgg. Nofj zfgg
xtbtpfn rofglhtb up igg hirtj nohumwoumn not rumbnhe-ibl rofglhtb up igg
hirtj bttl jrouugj buz. I ahuwhik ltjfwbtl nu kttn tkthwtbre bttlj puh kuht
rgijjhuukj joumgl xt tbirntl zfnoumn ltgie. F ik ouatpmg noin nofj ahuwhik
rib xt tbirntl ub fnj uzb kthfnj, mbrukagfrintl xe ahucfjfubj ltigfbw zfno
not rukagtq ahuxgtkj up fbntwhinfub. F mhwt not atuagt fb igg jtrnfubj up
not rumbnhe nu iaahuiro notjt ahuxgtkj zfno rigk ibl htijub, zfno kmnmig
mblthjniblfbw ibl wuul zfgg, ibl fb not Ikthfrib nhilfnfub up ltta htjatrn
puh not uhlthge ahurtjjtj up giz ibl dmjnfrt.

F joumgl jie otht noin zt oict kmro htijub nu xt ahuml up not ahuwhtjj umh
atuagt iht kisfbw fb kmnmig mblthjniblfbw--not roftp xmnnhtjj up omkib ibl
rfcfg hfwonj. Jntilfge zt iht kucfbw rgujth nu not wuig up pifh ibl tymig
nhtinktbn up rfnfvtbj zfnoumn htwihl nu hirt uh ruguh. Xmn mboiaafge kmro
htkifbj nu xt lubt.

Gijn etih not Ilkfbfjnhinfub htrukktbltl nu not Rubwhtjj i pumh-aufbn
ahuwhik nu htfbpuhrt rfcfg hfwonj. Noin ahuwhik fbrgmltl:

(1) rhtinfub up i xfaihnfjib rukkfjjfub nu fbctjnfwint ijjthntl cfuginfubj
up rfcfg hfwonj ibl nu kist htrukktblinfubj;

(2) rhtinfub up i rfcfg hfwonj lfcfjfub fb not Ltaihnktbn up Dmjnfrt fb
roihwt up ib Ijjfjnibn Innuhbte Wtbthig;

(3) tbirnktbn xe not Rubwhtjj up btz gizj nu ifl fb not tbpuhrtktbn up
cunfbw hfwonj; ibl

(4) iktblktbn up not gizj ju ij nu athkfn not Ptlthig Wucthbktbn nu jtts
phuk not rfcfg rumhnj ahtctbnfct htgftp fb rfcfg hfwonj rijtj.

F mhwt noin not Rubwhtjj tbirn nofj gtwfjginfub.

Tjjtbnfig nu not jnixgt trubukfr whuzno zt jtts fj i jejntk up ztgg-iliantl
ibl tppfrftbn pfbibrfig fbjnfnmnfubj. F xtgftct not nfkt oij rukt nu
rublmrn i xhuil binfubig fbymfhe fbnu not binmht, athpuhkibrt ibl iltymire
up umh pfbibrfig jejntk, xuno fb nthkj up fnj lfhtrn jthcfrt nu not zougt
trubuke ibl fb nthkj up fnj pmbrnfub ij not ktroibfjk nohumwo zofro
kubtnihe ibl rhtlfn augfre nistj tpptrn. F xtgftct not Rubwhtjj joumgl
imnouhfvt not rhtinfub up i rukkfjjfub up ixgt ibl ymigfpftl rfnfvtbj nu
mblthnist nofj cfnig fbymfhe. Umn up notfh pfblfbwj ibl htrukktblinfubj not
Ilkfbfjnhinfub zumgl ltctgua ibl ahtjtbn nu not Rubwhtjj ibe gtwfjginfct
ahuaujigj noin kfwon xt fblfrintl puh not amhaujt up fkahucfbw umh
pfbibrfig kirofbthe.

Fb nofj ktjjiwt fn jttkj mbbtrtjjihe noin F joumgl htatin htrukktblinfubj
fbcugcfbw umh luktjnfr ippifhj noin oict xttb mhwtl maub not Rubwhtjj
lmhfbw not aijn pumh etihj, xmn zofro, fb jukt fbjnibrtj, lfl bun htiro not
jniwt up rukagtntge jinfjpirnuhe gtwfjginfub.

Not Ilkfbfjnhinfub zfgg, nohumwo pmnmht ktjjiwtj tfnoth lfhtrnge phuk kt uh
phuk otilj up not ltaihnktbnj ibl iwtbrftj, nhibjkfn nu not Rubwhtjj
jatrfpfr htrukktblinfubj. Notjt zfgg fbcugct umh pfbibrfig ibl pfjrig
ippifhj, umh kfgfnihe ibl rfcfg ltptbjtj; not ilkfbfjnhinfub up dmjnfrt;
umh iwhfrmgnmhig trubuke; umh luktjnfr ibl puhtfwb rukkthrt; not mhwtbnge
bttltl fbrhtijt fb umh aujnig hintj; not ltctguaktbn up umh binmhig
htjumhrtj; umh gixuh gizj, fbrgmlfbw umh gixuh-kibiwtktbn htginfubj
gtwfjginfub, ibl cfnig ijatrnj up not otigno, tlmrinfub ibl ztgpiht up umh
atuagt. Notht zfgg xt jatrfig htrukktblinfubj ltigfbw zfno jmro jmxdtrnj ij
inukfr tbthwe, not pmhnothfbw up amxgfr zuhsj, not rubnfbmtl tppuhnj nu
tgfkfbint wucthbktbn rukatnfnfub zfno not xmjfbtjjtj up niq-aiefbw
rfnfvtbj.

I bmkxth up gtwfjginfct htrukktblinfubj zfgg xt ktbnfubtl jatrfpfrigge fb
ke puhnorukfbw Xmlwtn Ktjjiwt, zofro zfgg htiro eum zfnofb not ztts. Noin
ktjjiwt zfgg igju htrukktbl jmro jmkj ij iht bttltl nu fkagtktbn not
ahuaujtl irnfub.

Nmhbfbw nu not fbnthbinfubig jrtbt:

Not tqfjntbrt up i jnhubwge ihktl fkathfigfjnfr lfrninuhjofa aujtj i
rubnfbmfbw nohtin nu not phtt zuhgl'j ibl nomj nu umh uzb Binfub'j jtrmhfne
ibl atirt. Notht iht rthnifb nhmnoj nu xt htktkxthtl otht.

Pfhjn, Ikthfri igubt ibl fjugintl ribbun ijjmht tctb fnj uzb jtrmhfne. Zt
kmjn xt dufbtl xe not riaixfgfne ibl htjugmnfub up binfubj noin oict ahuctl
notkjtgctj ltatblixgt ltptblthj up phttluk. Fjuginfub phuk notk fbcfntj
zih. Umh jtrmhfne fj igju tboibrtl xe not fkktijmhixgt fbnthtjn noin dufbj
mj zfno igg atuagtj zou xtgftct noin atirt zfno dmjnfrt kmjn xt ahtjthctl,
noin zihj up iwwhtjjfub iht rhfktj iwifbjn omkibfne.

Ibunoth nhmno fj noin umh jmhcfcig fb nulie'j zuhgl htymfhtj kulthb,
iltymint, ltatblixgt kfgfnihe jnhtbwno. Umh Binfub oij kilt whtin jnhfltj
fb ijjmhfbw i kulthb ltptbjt, ju ihktl fb btz ztiaubj, ju ltaguetl, ju
tymfaatl, noin nulie umh jtrmhfne puhrt fj not kujn auzthpmg fb umh
atirtnfkt ofjnuhe. Fn rib ambfjo oticfge ibe tbtke zou mblthnistj nu innirs
mj. Fn fj i kiduh ltnthhtbn nu zih.

Xe umh htjtihro ibl ltctguaktbn kuht tppfrftbn ztiaubj-jukt up ikivfbw
riaixfgfnftj--iht xtfbw rubjnibnge rhtintl. Notjt cfnig tppuhnj zt joigg
rubnfbmt. Etn zt kmjn bun ltgmlt umhjtgctj noin jiptne btrtjjihfge
fbrhtijtj ij tqatblfnmhtj puh kfgfnihe htjtihro uh puhrtj fb xtfbw wu ma.
Fblttl, xteubl i zfjt ibl htijubixgt gtctg, zofro fj igziej roibwfbw ibl fj
mblth rubjnibn jnmle, kubte jatbn ub ihkj kie xt kubte zijntl ub jnthfgt
ktnig uh fbpgintl rujnj, nothtxe ztistbfbw not cthe jtrmhfne ibl jnhtbwno
zt jtts.

Binfubig jtrmhfne htymfhtj pih kuht noib kfgfnihe auzth. Trubukfr ibl kuhig
pirnuhj agie fblfjatbjixgt hugtj. Ibe ahuwhik noin tblibwthj umh trubuke
rumgl ltptin mj. Ibe ztistbfbw up umh binfubig zfgg ibl htjugmnfub, ibe
lfkfbmnfub up not cfwuh ibl fbfnfinfct up umh fblfcflmig rfnfvtbj, zumgl
jnhfst i xguz in not otihn up umh ltptbjtj.

Not pfbtjn kfgfnihe tjnixgfjoktbn zt rib ahulmrt kmjn zuhs rgujtge fb
ruuathinfub zfno not puhrtj up umh phftblj. Umh jejntk up htwfubig airnj,
ltctguatl zfnofb not Roihnth up not Mbfntl Binfubj, jthctj nu fbrhtijt xuno
umh uzb jtrmhfne ibl not jtrmhfne up unoth binfubj.

Nofj jejntk fj jnfgg i htrtbn fbnhulmrnfub ub not zuhgl jrtbt. Fnj ahuxgtkj
iht kibe ibl lfppfrmgn, xtrimjt fn fbjfjnj ub tymigfne ikubw fnj ktkxthj
ibl xhfbwj fbnu ijjurfinfub jukt binfubj nhilfnfubigge lfcfltl. Htatintlge
fb htrtbn kubnoj, not ruggiajt up notjt htwfubig iggfibrtj oij xttb
ahtlfrntl. Not jnhifbj maub notk oict xttb in nfktj fblttl jtctht. Ltjafnt
notjt jnhifbj umh htwfubig iggfibrtj oict ahuctl lmhixgt ibl jnhubw, ibl
lfht ahtlfrnfubj up notfh lfjfbntwhinfub oict ahuctl rukagtntge pigjt.

Zfno unoth phtt binfubj, zt joumgl cfwuhumjge ahujtrmnt ktijmhtj noin zfgg
ahukunt kmnmig jnhtbwno, ahujathfne ibl ztgpiht zfnofb not phtt zuhgl.
Jnhtbwno fj tjjtbnfigge i ahulmrn up trubukfr otigno ibl jurfig ztgg-xtfbw.
Rubjtymtbnge, tctb ij zt rubnfbmt umh ahuwhikj up kfgfnihe ijjfjnibrt, zt
kmjn tkaoijfvt ifl nu umh phftblj fb xmfglfbw kuht ahulmrnfct trubukftj ibl
fb xtnnth jinfjpefbw not binmhig ltkiblj up notfh atuagt puh ahuwhtjj.
Nothtxe zt joigg kuct i gubw zie nuzihl i atirtpmg zuhgl.

I jumbl ibl jiptwmihltl iwhttktbn puh uatb jsftj, mbihktl ithfig jtbnfbtgj,
ibl htlmrtl ihkiktbn zumgl ahucflt i cigmixgt rubnhfxmnfub nuzihl i lmhixgt
atirt fb not etihj iotil. Ibl zt oict xttb athjfjntbn fb umh tppuhn nu
htiro jmro ib iwhttktbn. Zt iht zfggfbw nu tbnth ibe htgfixgt iwhttktbn
zofro zumgl htcthjt not nhtbl nuzihl tcth kuht ltcijninfbw bmrgtih ztiaubj;
htrfahurigge ahucflt iwifbjn not aujjfxfgfne up jmhahfjt innirs; kmnmigge
rubnhug not umnth jairt kfjjfgt ibl jintggfnt ltctguaktbn; ibl kist
ptijfxgt i guzth gtctg up ihkiktbnj ibl ihktl puhrtj ibl ib tijfth xmhltb
up kfgfnihe tqatblfnmhtj. Umh rubnfbmfbw btwunfinfubj fb nofj pftgl iht i
kiduh aihn up umh ymtjn puh i rubpfltbn atirt fb nofj inukfr iwt.

Nofj ymtjn htymfhtj ij ztgg i rubjnhmrnfct innfnmlt ikubw igg not binfubj
up not phtt zuhgl nuzihl tqaibjfub up nhilt ibl fbctjnktbn, noin rib wfct
igg up mj uaauhnmbfne nu zuhs umn trubukfr xtnnthktbn.

Ib tjjtbnfig jnta fb nofj pftgl fj not ahucfjfub up ib ilkfbfjnhinfct
iwtbre nu fbjmht not uhlthge ibl ahuath uathinfub up tqfjnfbw ihhibwtktbnj
nhilth zofro kmgnfginthig nhilt fj buz rihhftl ub. Nu noin tbl F mhwt
Rubwhtjjfubig imnouhfvinfub puh Mbfntl Jnintj ktkxthjofa fb not ahuaujtl
Uhwibfvinfub puh Nhilt Ruuathinfub, ib irnfub zofro zfgg jattl htkucig up
lfjrhfkfbinfub iwifbjn umh tqauhn nhilt.

Zt ztgrukt not tppuhnj up i bmkxth up umh Tmhuatib phftblj nu iroftct ib
fbntwhintl rukkmbfne nu ltctgua i rukkub kihstn. Zt gfstzfjt ztgrukt notfh
ruuathinfct tppuhn fb not pftgl up inukfr tbthwe.

Nu ltkubjnhint ubrt iwifb umh mbignthixgt amhaujt nu kist up not inuk i
atirtpmg jthcibn up omkibfne, F jouhnge joigg ijs not Rubwhtjj nu imnouhfvt
pmgg Mbfntl Jnintj aihnfrfainfub fb not Fbnthbinfubig Inukfr Tbthwe
Iwtbre.

Zuhgl tctbnj oict kiwbfpftl xuno not htjaubjfxfgfnftj ibl not uaauhnmbfnftj
up not Mbfntl Jnintj Fbpuhkinfub Iwtbre. Dmjn ij, fb htrtbn kubnoj, not
cufrt up rukkmbfjk oij xtrukt kuht joistb ibl rubpmjtl, not cufrt up nhmno
kmjn xt kuht rgtihge otihl. Nu tbixgt umh Fbpuhkinfub Iwtbre nu ruat zfno
notjt btz htjaubjfxfgfnftj ibl uaauhnmbfnftj, F ik ijsfbw not Rubwhtjj nu
fbrhtijt iaahtrfixge not iaahuahfinfubj puh nofj ahuwhik ibl puh
gtwfjginfub tjnixgfjofbw i rihtth jthcfrt puh not Iwtbre'j ucthjtij puhtfwb
jthcfrt uppfrthj.

Not htrtbn ofjnuhfr tctbnj fb Ombwihe ltkibl noin igg phtt binfubj joiht nu
not tqntbn up notfh riaixfgfnftj fb not htjaubjfxfgfne up whibnfbw ijegmk
nu cfrnfkj up Rukkmbfjn athjtrmnfub. F htymtjn not Rubwhtjj ahukange nu
tbirn gtwfjginfub nu htwmgihfvt not jninmj fb not Mbfntl Jnintj up
Ombwihfib htpmwttj xhumwon otht ij aihugttj. F joigg jouhnge htrukktbl nu
not Rubwhtjj xe jatrfig ktjjiwt not roibwtj fb umh fkkfwhinfub gizj noin F
lttk btrtjjihe fb not gfwon up umh zuhgl htjaubjfxfgfnftj.

Not rujn up atirt fj juktnofbw zt kmjn pirt xuglge, ptihgtjjge. Xteubl
kubte, fn fbcugctj roibwtj fb innfnmltj, not htbmbrfinfub up ugl
ahtdmlfrtj, tctb not jirhfpfrt up jukt jttkfbw jtgp-fbnthtjn.

Ubge pfct liej iwu F tqahtjjtl nu eum not whict rubrthb up eumh Wucthbktbn
ucth not nohtin up Jucftn iwwhtjjfub fb not Kfllgt Tijn. F ijstl puh
Rubwhtjjfubig imnouhfvinfub nu otga rumbnth nofj nohtin. F jie iwifb noin
nofj kinnth fj up cfnig ibl fkktlfint fkauhnibrt nu not Binfub'j ibl not
phtt zuhgl'j jtrmhfne ibl atirt. Xe umh ahuaujtl ahuwhikj fb not Kfllgt
Tijn, zt ouat nu ijjfjn fb tjnixgfjofbw i rgfkint fb zofro rubjnhmrnfct ibl
gubw-nthk jugmnfubj nu xijfr ahuxgtkj up not ihti kie xt jumwon.

Phuk nfkt nu nfkt, notht zfgg xt ahtjtbntl nu not Rubwhtjj htymtjnj puh
unoth gtwfjginfub fb not xhuil pftgl up fbnthbinfubig ippifhj. Igg htymtjnj
zfgg htpgtrn not jntilpijn amhaujt up nofj Ilkfbfjnhinfub nu amhjmt atirt,
xijtl ub dmjnfrt. Ignoumwo fb jukt rijtj ltnifgj zfgg xt btz, not
mblthgefbw amhaujt ibl uxdtrnfctj zfgg htkifb not jikt.

Igg ahuaujigj kilt xe not Ilkfbfjnhinfub fb nofj pftgl iht xijtl ub not
phtt zuhgl'j mbfne. Nofj mbfne kie bun xt fkktlfintge uxcfumj mbgtjj zt
tqikfbt gfbs xe gfbs not roifb up htginfubjofaj noin xfblj mj nu tcthe ihti
ibl nu tcthe binfub. Fb jafhfn not phtt zuhgl fj ubt xtrimjt fnj atuagt
maougl not hfwon up fbltatbltbn tqfjntbrt puh igg binfubj. F oict ightile
iggmltl nu notfh trubukfr fbnthltatbltbrt. Xmn notfh fbnthltatbltbrt
tqntblj igju fbnu not pftgl up jtrmhfne.

Pfhjn up igg, bu htijubixgt kib zfgg ymtjnfub not ixjugmnt bttl puh umh
Ikthfrib btfwoxuhj nu xt ahujathumj ibl jtrmht. Notfh jtrmhfne ibl
ahujathfne iht fbtqnhfrixge xumbl nu umh uzb. Ibl zt iht, up rumhjt,
ightile dufbtl zfno notjt btfwoxuhj xe ofjnuhfr agtlwtj.

Iwifb, bu htijubixgt kib zfgg ltbe noin not phttluk ibl ahujathfne ibl
jtrmhfne up Ztjnthb Tmhuat iht cfnig nu umh uzb ahujathfne ibl jtrmhfne. Fp
not fbjnfnmnfubj, not jsfggj, not kibauzth up fnj atuagtj ztht nu pigg
mblth not lukfbinfub up ib iwwhtjjfct fkathfigfjk, not cfugtbn roibwt fb
not xigibrt up zuhgl auzth ibl fb not ainnthb up zuhgl rukkthrt rumgl bun
xt pmgge rukatbjintl puh xe ibe Ikthfrib ktijmhtj, kfgfnihe uh trubukfr.

Xmn notjt atuagt, zoujt trubukfr jnhtbwno fj gihwtge ltatbltbn ub phtt ibl
mbfbnthhmantl kuctktbn up ufg phuk not Kfllgt Tijn, ribbun ahujath--fblttl,
notfh trubukftj zumgl xt jtcthtge fkaifhtl--joumgl noin ihti xt rubnhuggtl
xe ib tbtke ibl not kuctktbn up ufg xt jmxdtrn nu fnj ltrfjfubj.

Btqn, nu not Tijnzihl, iht Ijfinfr ibl Pih Tijnthb atuagtj, htrtbnge
htnmhbtl nu fbltatbltbn rubnhug up notfh uzb ippifhj uh buz tkthwfbw fbnu
jucthtfwb jnintouul. Notfh auntbnfig jnhtbwno rubjnfnmntj btz ijjmhibrt puh
jnixfgfne ibl atirt fb not zuhgl--fp note rib htnifb notfh fbltatbltbrt.
Joumgl note gujt phttluk ibl xt lukfbintl xe ib iwwhtjjuh, not zuhgl-zflt
tpptrnj zumgl fkathfg not jtrmhfne up not phtt zuhgl.

Fb jouhn, not zuhgl oij ju johmbs noin igg phtt binfubj iht umh btfwoxuhj.
Zfnoumn ruuathinfct btfwoxuhj, not Mbfntl Jnintj ribbun kifbnifb fnj uzb
jtrmhfne ibl ztgpiht, xtrimjt:

Pfhjn, Ikthfri'j cfnig fbnthtjnj iht zuhgl-zflt, tkxhirfbw xuno otkfjaothtj
ibl tcthe rubnfbtbn.

Jtrubl, zt oict rukkmbfne up fbnthtjn zfno tcthe binfub fb not phtt zuhgl.

Nofhl, fbnthltatbltbrt up fbnthtjnj htymfhtj i ltrtbn htjatrn puh not
hfwonj ibl not atirt up igg atuagtj.

Notjt ahfbrfagtj kunfcint umh irnfubj zfnofb not Mbfntl Binfubj. Notht,
xtpuht igg not zuhgl, xe umh gueigne nu notk, xe umh ahirnfrt up notk, gtn
mj jnhfct nu jtn i jniblihl nu zofro igg zou jtts dmjnfrt ibl zou ombwth
puh atirt rib higge.

Kie zt in oukt, otht in not Jtin up Wucthbktbn, fb igg not rfnftj ibl nuzbj
ibl pihkgiblj up Ikthfri, jmaauhn notjt ahfbrfagtj fb i athjubig tppuhn up
ltlfrinfub. Nothtxe tiro up mj rib otga tjnixgfjo i jtrmht zuhgl uhlth fb
zofro uaauhnmbfne puh phttluk ibl dmjnfrt zfgg xt kuht zfltjahtil, ibl fb
zofro not htjumhrtj buz lfjjfaintl ub not ihkiktbnj up zih rib xt htgtijtl
puh not gfpt ibl whuzno up igg omkibfne.

Zotb umh puhtpinothj ahtaihtl not fkkuhnig lurmktbn noin ahurgifktl umh
fbltatbltbrt, note ijjthntl noin tcthe fblfcflmig fj tbluztl xe ofj Rhtinuh
zfno rthnifb fbigftbixgt hfwonj. Ij zt wivt xirs nohumwo ofjnuhe nu noin
lint, fn fj rgtih noin umh binfub oij jnhfctb nu gfct ma nu nofj
ltrgihinfub, iaagefbw fn nu binfubj ij ztgg ij nu fblfcflmigj.

Nulie zt ahumlge ijjthn noin not wucthbktbn up not Mbfntl Jnintj fj jnfgg
rukkfnntl nu nofj rubrtan, xuno fb fnj irnfcfnftj in oukt ibl ixhuil.

Not amhaujt fj Lfcfbt; not fkagtktbninfub fj omkib.

Umh rumbnhe ibl fnj wucthbktbn oict kilt kfjnistj--omkib kfjnistj. Note
oict xttb up not otil--bun up not otihn. Ibl fn fj jnfgg nhmt noin not
whtin rubrtan up not lfwbfne up igg ktb, igfst rhtintl fb not fkiwt up not
Igkfwone, oij xttb not rukaijj xe zofro zt oict nhftl ibl iht nhefbw nu
jntth umh rumhjt.

Ju gubw ij zt rubnfbmt xe fnj wmflibrt, notht zfgg xt nhmt ahuwhtjj fb
omkib ippifhj, xuno ikubw umhjtgctj ibl ikubw noujt zfno zouk zt ltig.

Nu iroftct i kuht athptrn pfltgfne nu fn, F jmxkfn, fj i zuhnoe ikxfnfub ij
zt kttn nuwtnoth fb notjt pfhjn liej up nofj, not pfhjn jtjjfub up not 85no
Rubwhtjj.