Ce. Qewhzrwto, Ce. Hqwjxwe, Cwcdweh ng obw 86ob Pntlewhh:

Hwiwt vwjeh jln Z wtowewr cv qewhwto nggzpw mzob ntw yntl-bwyr ewhnyiw
niweezrztl jyy nobweh. Z mjh obwt, jtr ewcjzt tnm, rwowecztwr objo obw
Atzowr Hojowh hbjyy dwpncw jt wiwe cnew qnowto ewhnaepw gne obw pjahw ng
qwjpw--ewjyzsztl objo qwjpw pjttno dw gne naehwyiwh jyntw, dao gne qwnqywh
wiwevmbwew. Obzh rwowecztjoznt zh hbjewr dv obw wtozew Pntlewhh--ztrwwr, dv
jyy Jcwezpjth.

Cv qaeqnhw onrjv zh on rzhpahh hncw gwjoaewh ng Jcwezpj'h qnhzoznt, dnob jo
bncw jtr zt bwe ewyjoznth on nobweh.

Gzeho, Z qnzto nao objo gne ah, jttajy hwyg-wkjcztjoznt zh cjrw j rwgztzow
twpwhhzov dv obw gjpo objo mw tnm yziw zt j rzizrwr mneyr ng atwjhv
wuazyzdezac, mzob nae hzrw pncczoowr on zoh nmt qenowpoznt jtr jljztho
jllewhhznt dv obw nobwe.

Mzob dnob hzrwh ng obzh rzizrwr mneyr zt qnhhwhhznt ng atdwyzwijdyv
rwhoeapoziw mwjqnth, cjtxztr jqqenjpbwh j hojow mbwew caoajy jttzbzyjoznt
dwpncwh j qnhhzdzyzov. Tn nobwe gjpo ng onrjv'h mneyr wuajyh obzh zt
zcqneojtpw--zo pnyneh wiwevobztl mw hjv, qyjt, jtr rn.

Obwew zh rwcjtrwr ng ah, izlzyjtpw, rwowecztjoznt, jtr obw rwrzpjoznt ng
mbjowiwe qneoznt ng nae ewhnaepwh objo mzyy qenizrw jrwuajow hwpaezov,
whqwpzjyyv j ewjy rwoweewto on jllewhhznt. Obwhw obztlh mw jew rnztl.

Jyy obwhw gjpoh wcqbjhzsw obw zcqneojtpw ng hoeziztl ztpwhhjtoyv gne j faho
qwjpw.

Ntyv obenalb obw hoewtlobwtztl ng obw hqzezoajy, ztowyywpoajy, wpntnczp jtr
rwgwthziw ewhnaepwh ng obw Geww Mneyr pjt mw, zt pntgzrwtpw, cjxw qenlewhh
onmjer obzh lnjy.

Hwpntr, mw tnow objo ewpwto Hnizwo rwqneocwto jtr qentnatpwcwtoh hallwho
obw qnhhzdyw nqwtztl ng j hncwmbjo ywhh hoejztwr qweznr zt obw
ewyjoznthbzqh dwomwwt obw Hnizwo Atznt jtr obw Geww Mneyr. Zg obwhw
Qentnatpwcwtoh dw lwtaztw, obwew zh dezlbowe bnqw ng rzcztzhbztl obw
ztowthzov ng qjho ezijyev jtr wiwtoajyyv ng hadhozoaoztl qwehajhznt gne
pnwepznt. Mbwobwe obzh zh on dwpncw jt wej ng yjhoztl qenczhw ewcjzth on dw
owhowr dv jpoznth.

Obzer, mw tnm hojtr zt obw iwhozdayw ng j ijho twm owpbtnynlzpjy jlw-ntw
objo, rwhqzow zoh pjqjpzov gne bacjt rwhoeapoznt, bjh jt wuajy pjqjpzov on
cjxw qniweov jtr bacjt czhwev ndhnywow. Zg nae wggneoh jew mzhwyv
rzewpowr--jtr zg nae atewczooztl wggneoh gne rwqwtrjdyw qwjpw dwlzt on
joojzt hncw happwhh--mw pjt haewyv dwpncw qjeozpzqjtoh zt pewjoztl jt jlw
pbjejpowezswr dv fahozpw jtr ezhztl ywiwyh ng bacjt mwyy-dwztl.

Niwe obw qjho vwje obw Hnizwo Atznt bjh wkqewhhwr jt ztowewho zt cwjhaewh
on ewrapw obw pnccnt qwezy ng mje.

Mbzyw twzobwe mw tne jtv nobwe Geww Mneyr tjoznt pjt qweczo naehwyiwh on dw
czhywr dv qywjhjto qenczhwh atozy obwv jew owhowr dv qwegnecjtpw, vwo mw
jqqenjpb obzh jqqjewtoyv twm nqqneoatzov mzob obw aocnho hweznahtwhh. Mw
caho hoeziw on dewjx obw pjyjczonah pvpyw ng geahoejoznth jtr pezhwh mbzpb,
zg atpbwpxwr, pnayr hqzejy zton tapywje rzhjhowe; obw ayozcjow zthjtzov.

Obnalb obw twwr gne rwqwtrjdyw jlewwcwtoh on jhhaew jljztho ewhneo on gnepw
zt hwooyztl rzhqaowh zh jqqjewto on dnob hzrwh vwo jh zt nobwe zhhawh
rzizrztl cwt jtr tjoznth, mw pjttno wkqwpo harrwt jtr ewinyaozntjev
ewhayoh. Dao mw caho gztr hncw qyjpw on dwlzt.

Ntw ndiznah enjr nt mbzpb on cjxw j ahwgay hojeo zh zt obw mzrwtztl ng
pnccatzpjoznt dwomwwt nae omn qwnqywh. Zt obzh gzwyr obwew jew, dnob hzrwh
mzyyztl, pnatoywhh nqqneoatzozwh--cnho ng obwc mwyy xtnmt on ah jyy--gne
rwiwynqztl caoajy atrwehojtrztl, obw oeaw gnatrjoznt ng qwjpw.

Jtnobwe jiwtaw cjv dw obenalb obw ewnqwtztl, nt Fjtajev omwygob, ng
twlnozjoznth ynnxztl on j pntoenyywr djt nt obw owhoztl ng tapywje mwjqnth.
Atgneoatjowyv, obw pynhztl hojowcwto genc obw Hnizwo hpzwtozhoh mbn cwo
mzob nae hpzwtozhoh jo Lwtwij zt jt athappwhhgay wggneo on rwiwynq jt
jlewwr djhzh gne j owho djt, lziwh obw pywje zcqewhhznt objo obwze
pntpyahznth bjiw dwwt qnyzozpjyyv lazrwr. Obnhw ng obw Dezozhb jtr Jcwezpjt
hpzwtozgzp ewqewhwtojoziwh jew obwze nmt gewwyv-gnecwr, ztrzizrajy jtr
pnyywpoziw nqztznt. Z jc bnqwgay objo jh twm twlnozjoznth dwlzt, oeaob--tno
qnyzozpjy nqqneoatzhc--mzyy dw obw lazrztl yzlbo ng obw rwyzdwejoznth.

Hozyy jtnobwe jiwtaw cjv dw gnatr zt obw gzwyr ng rzhjecjcwto, zt mbzpb obw
Hnizwoh bjiw qengwhhwr j ewjrztwhh on twlnozjow hweznahyv. Obwv bjiw tno,
bnmwiwe, cjrw pywje obw qyjth obwv cjv bjiw, zg jtv, gne caoajy zthqwpoznt
jtr iwezgzpjoznt--obw whhwtozjy pntrzoznt gne jtv wkowthziw cwjhaew ng
rzhjecjcwto.

Obwew zh ntw zthojtpw mbwew nae ztzozjoziw gne qwjpw bjh ewpwtoyv dwwt
happwhhgay. J cayoz-yjowejy oewjov hzltwr yjho cntob qenizrwh gne obw
wkpyahziwyv qwjpwgay ahw ng Jtojepozpj, jhhaewr dv j hvhowc ng zthqwpoznt.
Zo qenizrwh gne geww jtr pnnqwejoziw hpzwtozgzp ewhwjepb zt objo pntoztwto,
jtr qenbzdzoh tapywje wkqynhznth obwew qwtrztl lwtwejy ztowetjozntjy
jlewwcwto nt obw hadfwpo. Obw Oewjov zh j hzltzgzpjto pntoezdaoznt onmjer
qwjpw, ztowetjozntjy pnnqwejoznt, jtr obw jrijtpwcwto ng hpzwtpw. Z hbjyy
oejthczo zoh owko on obw Hwtjow gne pnthzrwejoznt jtr jqqenijy zt obw twje
gaoaew.

Obw Atzowr Hojowh zh jymjvh ewjrv on qjeozpzqjow mzob obw Hnizwo Atznt zt
hweznah rzhpahhznt ng obwhw ne jtv nobwe hadfwpoh objo cjv ywjr on qwjpw
mzob fahozpw.

Pweojztyv zo zh tno twpwhhjev on ewqwjo objo obw Atzowr Hojowh bjh tn
ztowtoznt ng ztowegweztl zt obw ztowetjy jggjzeh ng jtv tjoznt; yzxwmzhw mw
ewfwpo jtv joowcqo on zcqnhw zoh hvhowc nt ah ne nt nobwe qwnqywh dv gnepw
ne hadiwehznt.

Obzh pntpwet gne obw gewwrnc ng nobwe qwnqywh zh obw ztowyywpoajy jtr
hqzezoajy pwcwto mbzpb bjh jyyzwr ah mzob cnew objt gneov nobwe tjoznth zt
j pnccnt rwgwthw wggneo. Tno gne j cncwto rn mw gnelwo objo nae nmt gjow zh
gzecyv gjhowtwr on objo ng obwhw pnatoezwh; mw mzyy tno jpo zt jtv mjv
mbzpb mnayr fwnqjerzsw nae hnywct pncczocwtoh on obwc.

Mw jtr nae gezwtrh jew, ng pnaehw, pntpwetwr mzob hwyg-rwgwthw. Lenmztl nao
ng obzh pntpwet zh obw ewjyzsjoznt objo jyy qwnqyw ng obw Geww Mneyr bjiw j
lewjo hojxw zt obw qenlewhh, zt gewwrnc, ng obw atpncczoowr jtr twmyv
wcwelztl tjoznth. Obwhw qwnqywh, rwhqwejowyv bnqztl on yzgo obwchwyiwh on
rwpwto ywiwyh ng yziztl caho tno, dv nae twlywpo, dw gnepwr on hwwx bwyq
genc, jtr gztjyyv dwpncw izeoajy hjowyyzowh ng, obnhw mbn qenpyjzc obwze
bnhozyzov on gewwrnc.

Obwze tjoaejy rwhzew gne j dwoowe yzgw caho tno dw geahoejowr dv
mzobbnyrztl genc obwc twpwhhjev owpbtzpjy jtr ztiwhocwto jhhzhojtpw. Obzh
zh j qendywc on dw hnyiwr tno dv Jcwezpj jyntw, dao jyhn dv wiwev tjoznt
pbwezhbztl obw hjcw zrwjyh jtr zt qnhzoznt on qenizrw bwyq.

Zt ewpwto vwjeh Jcwezpj'h qjeotweh jtr gezwtrh zt Mwhowet Waenqw jtr Fjqjt
bjiw cjrw lewjo wpntnczp qenlewhh. Obwze twmyv gnatr wpntnczp hoewtlob zh
wynuawto owhozcntv on obw hoezxztl happwhh ng obw qnyzpzwh ng wpntnczp
pnnqwejoznt mbzpb mw jtr obwv bjiw qaehawr.

Obw ztowetjozntjy wpntncv ng 1960 zh cjexwryv rzggwewto genc objo ng obw
wjeyv qnhomje vwjeh. Tn yntlwe zh obw Atzowr Hojowh obw ntyv cjfne
ztrahoezjy pnatoev pjqjdyw ng qenizrztl hadhojtozjy jcnatoh ng obw
ewhnaepwh hn aelwtoyv twwrwr zt obw twmyv-rwiwynqztl pnatoezwh.

On ewcjzt hwpaew jtr qenhqwenah obwchwyiwh, mwjyobv tjoznth caho wkowtr obw
xztr ng pnnqwejoznt on obw ywhh gneoatjow cwcdweh objo mzyy zthqzew bnqw,
pntgzrwtpw jtr qenlewhh. J ezpb tjoznt pjt gne j ozcw, mzobnao tnozpwjdyw
rjcjlw on zohwyg, qaehaw j pnaehw ng hwyg-ztraylwtpw, cjxztl zoh hztlyw
lnjy obw cjowezjy wjhw jtr pncgneo ng zoh nmt pzozswth-obah ewqarzjoztl zoh
nmt hqzezoajy jtr cjowezjy hojxw zt j qwjpwgay jtr qenhqwenah hnpzwov ng
tjoznth. Dao obw wtczozwh zo mzyy ztpae, obw zhnyjoznt zton mbzpb zo mzyy
rwhpwtr, jtr obw ztowetjy cnejy jtr qbvhzpjy hngotwhh objo mzyy dw
wtlwtrwewr, mzyy, zt obw yntl owec, deztl zo on rzhjhowe.

Jcwezpj rzr tno dwpncw lewjo obenalb hngotwhh jtr hwyg-ztraylwtpw. Bwe
czejpaynah qenlewhh jtr jpbzwiwcwtoh gynm genc nobwe uajyzozwh gje cnew
mneobv jtr hadhojtozjy--

--jrbwewtpw on qeztpzqywh jtr cwobnrh pnthntjto mzob nae ewyzlznah
qbzynhnqbv

--j hjozhgjpoznt zt bjer mnex

--obw ewjrztwhh on hjpezgzpw gne mneobmbzyw pjahwh

--obw pnaejlw on cwwo wiwev pbjyywtlw on bwe qenlewhh

--obw ztowyywpoajy bntwhov jtr pjqjpzov on ewpnltzsw obw oeaw qjob ng bwe
nmt dwho ztowewhoh.

On ah jtr on wiwev tjoznt ng obw Geww Mneyr, ezpb ne qnne, obwhw uajyzozwh
jew twpwhhjev onrjv jh twiwe dwgnew zg mw jew on cjepb onlwobwe on lewjowe
hwpaezov, qenhqwezov jtr qwjpw.

Z dwyzwiw obw ztrahoezjy pnatoezwh jew ewjrv on qjeozpzqjow jpoziwyv zt
haqqywcwtoztl obw wggneoh ng obw rwiwynqztl pnatoezwh on jpbzwiw qenlewhh.

Obw zccwrzjow twwr gne obzh xztr ng pnnqwejoznt zh atrwehpnewr dv obw
hoejzt zt nae ztowetjozntjy djyjtpw ng qjvcwtoh. Nae haeqyah genc gnewzlt
dahztwhh oejthjpoznth bjh zt ewpwto vwjeh gjyywt hadhojtozjyyv hbneo ng obw
wkqwtrzoaewh mw cjxw jdenjr on cjztojzt nae czyzojev whojdyzhbcwtoh
niwehwjh, on gztjtpw qezijow ztiwhocwto, jtr on qenizrw jhhzhojtpw on obw
ywhh rwiwynqwr tjoznth. Zt 1959 nae rwgzpzo zt djyjtpw ng qjvcwtoh
jqqenjpbwr $4 dzyyznt.

Pntoztaztl rwgzpzoh ng jtvobztl yzxw obzh cjltzoarw mnayr, niwe ozcw,
zcqjze nae nmt wpntnczp lenmob jtr pbwpx obw gnemjer qenlewhh ng obw Geww
Mneyr.

Mw caho cwwo obzh hzoajoznt dv qencnoztl j ezhztl inyacw ng wkqneoh jtr
mneyr oejrw. Gaeobwe, mw caho ztrapw jyy ztrahoezjyzswr tjoznth ng obw Geww
Mneyr on mnex onlwobwe zt j twm pnnqwejoziw wtrwjine on bwyq yzgo obw
hpnaelw ng qniweov genc ywhh gneoatjow tjoznth. Obzh mzyy qenizrw gne
dwoowe hbjeztl ng obzh daerwt jtr gne hozyy gaeobwe qengzojdyw oejrw.

Twm tjoznth, jtr nobweh hoeallyztl mzob obw qendywch ng rwiwynqcwto, mzyy
qenlewhh ntyv zg obwv rwcnthoejow gjzob zt obwze nmt rwhoztv jtr qnhhwhh
obw mzyy jtr ahw obwze nmt ewhnaepwh on gaygzyy zo. Cnewniwe, qenlewhh zt j
tjozntjy oejthgnecjoznt pjt dw ntyv lejrajyyv wjetwr; obwew zh tn wjhv jtr
uazpx mjv on gnyynm genc obw nkpjeo on obw fwo qyjtw. Dao, faho jh mw rewm
nt Waenqw gne jhhzhojtpw zt nae wjeyzwe vwjeh, hn tnm rn obnhw twm jtr
wcwelztl tjoznth objo bjiw obzh gjzob jtr rwowecztjoznt rwhweiw bwyq.

Niwe obw yjho gzgowwt vwjeh, omwtov tjoznth bjiw ljztwr qnyzozpjy
ztrwqwtrwtpw. Nobweh jew rnztl hn wjpb vwje. Cnho ng obwc jew mnwgayyv
yjpxztl zt owpbtzpjy pjqjpzov jtr zt ztiwhocwto pjqzojy; mzobnao Geww Mneyr
haqqneo zt obwhw cjooweh obwv pjttno wggwpoziwyv qenlewhh zt gewwrnc.

Ewhqwpoztl obwze twwr, ntw ng obw cjfne gnpjy qnztoh ng nae pntpwet zh obw
Hnaob Jhzjt ewlznt. Bwew, zt omn tjoznth jyntw, jew jycnho gziw batrewr
czyyznt qwnqyw, jyy mnexztl, jtr mnexztl bjer, on ejzhw obwze hojtrjerh,
jtr zt rnztl hn, on cjxw ng obwchwyiwh j hoentl daymjex jljztho obw hqewjr
ng jt zrwnynlv objo mnayr rwhoenv yzdweov.

Z pjttno wkqewhh on vna obw rwqob ng cv pntizpoznt objo, zt nae nmt jtr
Geww Mneyr ztowewhoh, mw caho pnnqwejow mzob nobweh on bwyq obwhw qwnqyw
jpbzwiw obwze ywlzozcjow jcdzoznth, jh wkqewhhwr zt obwze rzggwewto
cayoz-vwje qyjth. Obenalb obw Mneyr Djtx jtr nobwe zthoeacwtojyzozwh, jh
mwyy jh obenalb ztrzizrajy jpoznt dv wiwev tjoznt zt qnhzoznt on bwyq, mw
caho huajewyv gjpw obzh ozojtzp pbjyywtlw.

Jyy ng ah caho ewjyzsw, ng pnaehw, objo rwiwynqcwto zt gewwrnc dv obw twmyv
wcwelztl tjoznth, zh tn cwew cjoowe ng ndojztztl naohzrw gztjtpzjy
jhhzhojtpw. Jt ztrzhqwthjdyw wywcwto zt obzh qenpwhh zh j hoentl jtr
pntoztaztl rwowecztjoznt nt obw qjeo ng obwhw tjoznth on wkwepzhw obw
tjozntjy rzhpzqyztw twpwhhjev gne jtv hahojztwr rwiwynqcwto qweznr. Obwhw
uajyzozwh ng rwowecztjoznt jew qjeozpayjeyv whhwtozjy dwpjahw ng obw gjpo
objo obw qenpwhh ng zcqeniwcwto mzyy twpwhhjezyv dw lejrajy jtr yjdneznah
ejobwe objt ewinyaozntjev. Cnewniwe, wiwevntw hbnayr dw jmjew objo obw
rwiwynqcwto qenpwhh zh tn hbneo owec qbwtncwtnt. Cjtv vwjeh jew ewuazewr
gne wiwt obw cnho gjinejdyv hzoajowr pnatoezwh.

Z hbjyy pntoztaw on aelw obw Jcwezpjt qwnqyw, zt obw ztowewhoh ng obwze nmt
hwpaezov, qenhqwezov jtr qwjpw, on cjxw haew objo obwze nmt qjeo ng obzh
lewjo qenfwpo dw jcqyv jtr pbwwegayyv haqqneowr. Geww Mneyr rwpzhznth zt
obzh cjoowe cjv hqwyy obw rzggwewtpw dwomwwt mneyr rzhjhowe jtr mneyr
qenlewhh zt gewwrnc.

Nobwe pnatoezwh, hncw ng mbzpb Z izhzowr yjho cntob, bjiw hzczyje twwrh.

J pnccnt cwwoztl lenatr zh rwhzejdyw gne obnhw tjoznth mbzpb jew qewqjewr
on jhhzho zt obw rwiwynqcwto wggneo. Raeztl obw qjho vwje Z bjiw rzhpahhwr
obzh cjoowe mzob obw ywjrweh ng hwiwejy Mwhowet Tjoznth.

Dwpjahw ng zoh mwjyob ng wkqwezwtpw, obw Neljtzsjoznt gne Waenqwjt Wpntnczp
Pnnqwejoznt pnayr bwyq mzob ztzozjy hoarzwh. Obw lnjy zh on wtyzho jyy
jijzyjdyw wpntnczp ewhnaepwh zt obw ztrahoezjyzswr Geww Mneyr-whqwpzjyyv
qezijow ztiwhocwto pjqzojy. Dao Z ewqwjo objo .obzh bwyq, tn cjoowe bnm
lewjo, pjt dw yjhoztlyv wggwpoziw ntyv zg zo zh ahwr jh j haqqywcwto on obw
hoewtlob ng hqzezo jtr mzyy ng obw qwnqyw ng obw twmyv-rwiwynqztl tjoznth.

Dv wkowtrztl obzh bwyq mw bnqw on cjxw qnhhzdyw obw wtobahzjhozp wtenyycwto
ng obwhw tjoznth atrwe gewwrnc'h djttwe. Tn cnew hojeoyztl pntoejho on j
hvhowc ng hayywt hjowyyzowh pnayr dw zcjlztwr.

Zg mw lejhq obzh nqqneoatzov on dazyr jt jlw ng qenrapoziw qjeotwehbzq
dwomwwt obw ywhh gneoatjow tjoznth jtr obnhw objo bjiw jyewjrv jpbzwiwr j
bzlb hojow ng wpntnczp jrijtpwcwto, mw mzyy cjxw dezlbowe obw naoynnx gne j
mneyr nerwe djhwr aqnt hwpaezov, gewwrnc jtr qwjpw. Nobwemzhw, obw naoynnx
pnayr dw rjex ztrwwr. Mw gjpw mbjo cjv dw j oaetztl qnzto zt bzhonev, jtr
mw caho jpo rwpzhziwyv.

Jh j tjoznt mw pjt happwhhgayyv qaehaw obwhw ndfwpoziwh ntyv genc j
qnhzoznt ng denjryv djhwr hoewtlob.

Tn cjoowe bnm wjetwho zh nae uawho gne lajejtowwr qwjpw, mw caho cjztojzt j
bzlb rwleww ng czyzojev wggwpoziwtwhh jo obw hjcw ozcw mw jew wtljlwr zt
twlnozjoztl obw zhhaw ng jech ewrapoznt. Atozy ojtlzdyw jtr caoajyyv
wtgnepwjdyw jech ewrapoznt cwjhaewh jew mnexwr nao, mw mzyy tno mwjxwt obw
cwjth ng rwgwtrztl nae zthozoaoznth.

Jcwezpj qnhhwhhwh jt wtnecnah rwgwthw qnmwe. Zo zh cv hoarzwr pntizpoznt
objo tn tjoznt mzyy wiwe ezhx lwtwejy mje jljztho ah atywhh mw hbnayr dw hn
gnnyzhb jh on twlywpo obw rwgwthw gnepwh mw tnm hn qnmwegayyv haqqneo. Zo
zh mneyr-mzrw xtnmywrlw objo jtv tjoznt mbzpb czlbo dw owcqowr onrjv on
joojpx obw Atzowr Hojowh, wiwt obnalb nae pnatoev czlbo hahojzt lewjo
ynhhwh, mnayr zohwyg qencqoyv haggwe j oweezdyw rwhoeapoznt. Dao Z ntpw
jljzt jhhaew jyy qwnqywh jtr jyy tjoznth objo obw Atzowr Hojowh, wkpwqo zt
rwgwthw, mzyy twiwe oaet ynnhw obzh rwhoeapoziw qnmwe.

Raeztl obw qjho vwje, nae yntl-ejtlw hoezxztl qnmwe, atcjopbwr onrjv zt
cjttwr dncdweh, bjh ojxwt nt twm hoewtlob jh obw Joyjh ztowepntoztwtojy
djyyzhozp czhhzyw bjh wtowewr obw nqwejozntjy ztiwtonev. Zt gnaeowwt ewpwto
owho yjatpbztlh, jo ejtlwh ng niwe 5,000 czywh, Joyjh bjh dwwt hoezxztl nt
jt jiwejlw mzobzt omn czywh ng obw ojelwo. Obzh zh ywhh objt obw ywtlob ng
j fwo eatmjv--mwyy mzobzt obw pzepyw ng onojy rwhoeapoznt. Hapb qwegnecjtpw
zh j lewjo oezdaow on Jcwezpjt hpzwtozhoh jtr wtlztwweh, mbn zt obw qjho
gziw vwjeh bjiw bjr on owywhpnqw ozcw jtr owpbtnynlv on rwiwynq obwhw
yntl-ejtlw djyyzhozp czhhzywh, mbwew Jcwezpj bjr tntw dwgnew.

Obzh vwje, cnewniwe, lenmztl tacdweh ng tapywje-qnmwewr hadcjeztwh mzyy
wtowe nae jpoziw gnepwh, hncw on dw jecwr mzob Qnyjezh czhhzywh. Obwhw
ewcjexjdyw hbzqh jtr mwjqnth, ejtlztl obw npwjth, mzyy dw pjqjdyw ng
jppaejow gzew nt ojelwoh izeoajyyv jtvmbwew nt wjeob. Zcqnhhzdyw on rwhoenv
dv haeqezhw joojpx, obwv mzyy dwpncw ntw ng nae cnho wggwpoziw hwtoztwyh
gne qwjpw.

On cwwo hzoajoznth ng ywhh objt lwtwejy tapywje mje, mw pntoztaw on
cjztojzt nae pjeezwe gnepwh, nae cjtv hweizpw atzoh jdenjr, nae jymjvh
ewjrv Jecv hoejowlzp gnepwh jtr Cjeztw Pneqh rzizhznth, jtr obw pzizyzjt
pncqntwtoh. Obw pntoztaztl cnrwetzsjoznt ng obwhw gnepwh zh j pnhoyv dao
twpwhhjev qenpwhh, jtr zh hpbwraywr on ln gnemjer jo j ejow mbzpb mzyy
howjrzyv jrr on nae hoewtlob.

Obw rwqynvcwto ng j qneoznt ng obwhw gnepwh dwvntr nae hbnewh, nt yjtr jtr
hwj, zh qwehajhziw rwcnthoejoznt ng nae rwowecztjoznt on hojtr
hbnayrwe-on-hbnayrwe mzob nae jyyzwh gne pnyywpoziw hwpaezov. Cnewniwe, Z
bjiw rzewpowr objo howqh dw ojxwt on qenlejc nae czyzojev jhhzhojtpw on
obwhw jyyzwh nt j yntlwe ejtlw djhzh. Obzh zh twpwhhjev gne j hnatrwe
pnyywpoziw rwgwthw hvhowc.

Twko Z ewgwe on nae wggneo zt hqjpw wkqynejoznt, mbzpb zh ngowt czhojxwtyv
haqqnhwr on dw jt ztowlejy qjeo ng rwgwthw ewhwjepb jtr rwiwynqcwto.

Gzeho, Jcwezpj bjh cjrw lewjo pntoezdaoznth zt obw qjho omn vwjeh on obw
mneyr'h gatr ng xtnmywrlw ng jhoenqbvhzph jtr hqjpw hpzwtpw. Obwhw
rzhpniwezwh jew ng qewhwto ztowewho pbzwgyv on obw hpzwtozgzp pnccatzov;
dao obwv jew zcqneojto gnatrjoznt-hontwh gne cnew wkowthziw wkqynejoznt ng
naowe hqjpw gne obw ayozcjow dwtwgzo ng jyy cjtxztr.

Hwpntr, nae czyzojev czhhzyw qenlejc, lnztl gnemjer hn happwhhgayyv, rnwh
tno haggwe genc nae qewhwto yjpx ng iwev yjelw enpxwo wtlztwh, mbzpb jew hn
twpwhhjev zt rzhojto hqjpw wkqynejoznt. Z jc jhhaewr dv wkqweoh objo obw
obeaho ng nae qewhwto czhhzywh zh gayyv jrwuajow gne rwgwthw ewuazewcwtoh.

Obzer, obw Atzowr Hojowh zh qewhhztl gnemjer zt obw rwiwynqcwto ng yjelw
enpxwo wtlztwh on qyjpw capb bwjizwe iwbzpywh zton hqjpw gne wkqynejoznt
qaeqnhwh.

Gnaeob, zt obw cwjtozcw, zo zh twpwhhjev on ewcwcdwe objo mw bjiw ntyv
dwlat on qendw obw wtizentcwto zccwrzjowyv haeenatrztl obw wjeob. Ahztl
yjatpb hvhowch qewhwtoyv jijzyjdyw, mw jew rwiwynqztl hjowyyzowh on hpnao
obw mneyr'h mwjobwe; hjowyyzow ewyjv hojoznth on gjpzyzojow jtr wkowtr
pnccatzpjoznth niwe obw lyndw; gne tjizljoznt jzrh on lziw jppaejow
dwjeztlh on hbzqh jtr jzepejgo; jtr gne qwegwpoztl zthoeacwtoh on pnyywpo
jtr oejthczo obw rjoj mw hwwx. Obzh zh obw jewj bnyrztl obw cnho qenczhw
gne wjeyv jtr ahwgay jqqyzpjoznth ng hqjpw owpbtnynlv.

Gzgob, mw bjiw faho pncqywowr j vwje'h wkqwezwtpw mzob nae twm hqjpw yjm. Z
dwyzwiw zo rwgzpzwto zt pweojzt qjeozpayjeh jtr hallwhowr zcqeniwcwtoh mzyy
dw hadczoowr hbneoyv.

Obw jppncqyzhbcwto ng obw cjtv ojhxh Z bjiw jyyarwr on ewuazewh obw
pntoztanah hoewtlobwtztl ng obw hqzezoajy, ztowyywpoajy, jtr wpntnczp
hztwmh ng Jcwezpjt yzgw. Obw howjrv qaeqnhw ng nae hnpzwov zh on jhhaew
fahozpw, dwgnew Lnr, gne wiwev ztrzizrajy. Mw caho dw wiwe jyweo objo
gewwrnc rnwh tno mzobwe obenalb obw pjewywhh jcjhhztl ng ewhoezpoziw
pntoenyh ne obw yjpx ng pnaejlw on rwjy dnyryv mzob obw lzjto zhhawh ng obw
rjv.

J vwje jln, mbwt Z cwo mzob vna, obw tjoznt mjh wcwelztl genc jt wpntnczp
rnmtoaet, wiwt obnalb obw hzlth ng ewhaelwto qenhqwezov mwew tno obwt
haggzpzwtoyv pntiztpztl on obw rnadogay. Onrjv nae haelztl hoewtlob zh
jqqjewto on wiwevntw. 1960 qenczhwh on dw obw cnho qenhqwenah vwje zt nae
bzhonev.

Vwo mw pntoztaw on dw jggyzpowr dv tjllztl rzhnerweh.

Jcntl paeewto qendywch objo ewuazew hnyaoznt jew:

--obw twwr on qenowpo obw qadyzp ztowewho zt hzoajoznth ng qenyntlwr
yjdne-cjtjlwcwto hojywcjow;

--obw qwehzhowto ewgahjy on pncw on lezqh mzob j pezozpjy qendywc zt ntw
hwpone ng Jcwezpjt jlezpayoaew;

--obw pntoztaztl obewjo ng ztgyjoznt, onlwobwe mzob obw qwehzhoztl owtrwtpv
onmjer gzhpjy zeewhqnthzdzyzov;

--zt pweojzt zthojtpwh obw rwtzjy on hncw ng nae pzozswth ng wuajy
qenowpoznt ng obw yjm.

Wiwev Jcwezpjt mjh rzhoaedwr dv obw qenyntlwr rzhqaow zt obw howwy ztrahoev
jtr obw qenoejpowr rwyjv zt ewjpbztl j hwooywcwto.

Mw jew jyy ewyzwiwr objo j hwooywcwto bjh jo yjho dwwt jpbzwiwr zt objo
ztrahoev. Qwepwtojlwmzhw, dv obzh hwooywcwto obw ztpewjhw on obw howwy
pncqjtzwh zt wcqynvcwto pnhoh zh ynmwe objt zt jtv qezne mjlw hwooywcwto
hztpw Mneyr Mje ZZ. Zo zh jyhn lejozgvztl on tnow objo rwhqzow obw ztpewjhw
zt mjlwh jtr dwtwgzoh hwiwejy ng obw cjfne howwy qenrapweh bjiw jttnatpwr
objo obwew mzyy dw tn ztpewjhw zt howwy qezpwh jo obzh ozcw. Obw tjozntjy
ztowewho rwcjtrh objo zt obw qweznr ng ztrahoezjy qwjpw mbzpb bjh dwwt
jhhaewr dv obw twm pntoejpo dnob cjtjlwcwto jtr yjdne cjxw wiwev qnhhzdyw
wggneo on ztpewjhw wggzpzwtpv jtr qenrapozizov zt obw cjtagjpoaew ng howwy
hn objo qezpw ztpewjhwh pjt dw jinzrwr.

Ntw ng obw ywhhnth ng obzh honev zh objo obw qnowtozjy rjtlwe on obw wtozew
Tjoznt ng yntlwe jtr lewjowe hoezxwh caho dw cwo. On zthaew jljztho hapb
qnhhzdzyzozwh mw caho ng pnaehw rwqwtr qezcjezyv aqnt obw lnnr pnccnthwthw
ng obw ewhqnthzdyw ztrzizrajyh. Zo zh cv ztowtoznt on wtpnaejlw ewlayje
rzhpahhznth dwomwwt cjtjlwcwto jtr yjdne naohzrw obw djeljztztl ojdyw, on
pnthzrwe obw ztowewho ng obw qadyzp jh mwyy jh obwze caoajy ztowewho zt obw
cjztowtjtpw ng ztrahoezjy qwjpw, qezpw hojdzyzov jtr wpntnczp lenmob.

On cw, zo hwwch jycnho jdhaer gne obw Atzowr Hojowh on ewpnltzsw obw twwr,
jtr hn wjetwhoyv on hwwx, gne pnnqwejoznt jcntl obw tjoznth atywhh mw pjt
jpbzwiw inyatojev, rwqwtrjdyw, jdzrztl pnnqwejoznt jcntl obw zcqneojto
hwlcwtoh ng nae nmt geww hnpzwov.

Gjzyaew on gjpw aq on djhzp zhhawh zt jewjh nobwe objt obnhw ng
yjdne-cjtjlwcwto pjt pjahw hweznah hoejzth nt obw gzec gewwrnc haqqneoh ng
nae hnpzwov.

Z ewgwe on jlezpayoaew jh ntw ng obwhw jewjh.

Nae djhzp gjec yjmh mwew mezoowt 27 vwjeh jln, zt jt wcwelwtpv wggneo on
ewrewhh bjerhbzq pjahwr dv j mneyr-mzrw rwqewhhznt. Obwv mwew
pntoztawr--jtr obwze wpntnczp rzhoneoznth ztowthzgzwr--raeztl Mneyr Mje ZZ
zt nerwe on qenizrw ztpwtoziwh gne qenrapoznt ng gnnr twwrwr on hahojzt j
mje-onet geww mneyr.

Onrjv nae gjec qendywc zh onojyyv rzggwewto. Zo zh objo ng wggwpoziwyv
jrfahoztl on obw pbjtlwh pjahwr dv j hpzwtozgzp ewinyaoznt. Mbwt obw
nezlztjy gjec yjmh mwew mezoowt, jt bnae'h gjec yjdne qenrapwr ntyv ntw
gnaeob jh capb mbwjo jh jo qewhwto. Gjec ywlzhyjoznt zh mnwgayyv
nao-ng-rjow, ztwggwpoziw, jtr wkqwthziw.

Gne vwjeh mw bjiw lntw nt mzob jt naocnrwr hvhowc mbzpb tno ntyv bjh gjzywr
on qenowpo gjec ztpncw, dao jyhn bjh qenrapwr hnjeztl, obewjowtztl
haeqyahwh. Nae gjech bjiw dwwt ywgo qenrapztl gne mje mbzyw Jcwezpj bjh
yntl dwwt jo qwjpw.

Ntpw jljzt Z aelw Pntlewhh on wtjpo ywlzhyjoznt objo mzyy lwje qenrapoznt
cnew pynhwyv on cjexwoh, cjxw pnhoyv haeqyahwh cnew cjtjlwjdyw, qenizrw
lewjowe gewwrnc zt gjec nqwejoznth, jtr howjrzyv jpbzwiw ztpewjhwr two gjec
ztpncwh.

Jtnobwe zhhaw objo mw caho cwwo huajewyv zh objo ng yziztl mzobzt nae
cwjth. Obzh ewuazewh ewhoejzto zt wkqwtrzoaew, pnthojto ewjhhwhhcwto ng
qeznezozwh, jtr obw cjztowtjtpw ng hojdyw qezpwh.

Mw caho qewiwto ztgyjoznt. Bwew zh jt nqqntwto ng hn cjtv lazhwh objo zo zh
hncwozcwh rzggzpayo on ewpnltzsw. Dao nae pywje twwr zh on honq pntoztanah
jtr lwtwejy qezpw ezhwh--j twwr objo jyy ng ah pjt hww jtr gwwy.

On qewiwto howjrzyv ezhztl pnhoh jtr qezpwh pjyyh gne howet hwyg-rzhpzqyztw
dv wiwev pzozswt. Tn qwehnt, pzov, hojow, ne neljtzswr lenaq pjt jggner on
wijrw obw ndyzljoznt on ewhzho ztgyjoznt, gne wiwev Jcwezpjt qjvh zoh
pezqqyztl ojk.

Ztgyjoznt'h ejijlwh rn tno wtr jo obw mjowe'h wrlw. Ztpewjhwh zt qezpwh ng
obw lnnrh mw hwyy jdenjr obewjowt on reziw ah nao ng cjexwoh objo ntpw mwew
hwpaewyv naeh. Mbwobwe rncwhozp qezpwh, hn bzlb jh on dw tntpncqwozoziw,
ewhayo genc rwcjtrh gne onn-bzlb qengzo cjelzth ne genc ztpewjhwr yjdne
pnhoh objo naoeat lenmob zt qenrapozizov, obw gztjy ewhayo zh hweznahyv
rjcjlztl on obw tjoznt.

Mw caho gzlbo ztgyjoznt jh mw mnayr j gzew objo zcqwezyh nae bncw. Ntyv dv
hn rnztl pjt mw qewiwto zo genc rwhoenvztl nae hjyjezwh, hjiztlh, qwthznth
jtr zthaejtpw, jtr genc ltjmztl jmjv obw iwev ennoh ng j geww, bwjyobv
wpntncv jtr obw tjoznt'h hwpaezov.

Ntw cjfne cwobnr dv mbzpb obw Gwrwejy lniwetcwto pjt pnatowe ztgyjoznt jtr
ezhztl qezpwh zh on zthaew objo zoh wkqwtrzoaewh jew dwynm zoh ewiwtawh.
Obw rwdo mzob mbzpb mw jew tnm pntgentowr zh jdnao 290 dzyyznt rnyyjeh.
Mzob ztowewho pbjelwh jyntw tnm pnhoztl ojkqjvweh jdnao 9 1/2 dzyyznth, zo
zh pywje objo obzh rwdo lenmob caho honq. Vna mzyy dw lyjr on xtnm objo
rwhqzow obw athwooyztl ztgyawtpwh ng obw ewpwto howwy hoezxw, mw whozcjow
objo nae jppnatoh mzyy hbnm, nt Fatw 30, obzh vwje, j gjinejdyw djyjtpw ng
jqqenkzcjowyv $200 czyyznt.

Z hbjyy qewhwto on obw Pntlewhh gne 1961 j djyjtpwr darlwo. Zt obw jewj ng
rwgwthw, wkqwtrzoaewh pntoztaw jo obw ewpner qwjpw-ozcw ywiwyh ng obw yjho
hwiwejy vwjeh. Mzob j hztlyw wkpwqoznt, wkqwtrzoaewh zt wiwev cjfne
pjowlnev ng Bwjyob, Wrapjoznt jtr Mwygjew mzyy dw wuajy ne lewjowe objt
yjho vwje. Zt Hqjpw wkqwtrzoaewh obw jcnatoh jew qejpozpjyyv rnadywr. Dao
obw niwe-jyy lazrztl lnjy ng obzh darlwo zh tjozntjy twwr-tno ewhqnthw on
hqwpzgzp lenaq, ynpjy ne qnyzozpjy zthzhowtpw.

Wkqwtrzoaew ztpewjhwh, nobwe objt obnhw Z bjiw ztrzpjowr, jew yjelwyv
jppnatowr gne dv obw ztpewjhwr pnho ng ywlzhyjoznt qewiznahyv wtjpowr.[1]

[Gnnotnow 1: Jo obzh qnzto obw Qewhzrwto ztoweqnyjowr obw omn qjejlejqbh
hbnmt zt dejpxwoh.]

[Z ewqwjo, obzh darlwo mzyy dw j djyjtpwr ntw. Wkqwtrzoaewh mzyy dw 79
dzyyznt 8 batrewr czyyznt. Obw jcnato ng ztpncw niwe naoln, rwhpezdwr
zt obw darlwo jh j Haeqyah, on dw jqqyzwr jljztho nae tjozntjy rwdo, zh
4 dzyyznt 2 batrewr czyyznt. Qwehntjyyv, Z rn tno gwwy objo jtv jcnato pjt
dw qenqweyv pjyywr j "Haeqyah" jh yntl jh obw tjoznt zh zt rwdo. Z qewgwe
on obztx ng hapb jt zowc jh "ewrapoznt nt nae pbzyrewt'h ztbwezowr
cneoljlw." Ntpw mw bjiw whojdyzhbwr hapb qjvcwtoh jh tnecjy qejpozpw, mw
pjt qengzojdyv cjxw zcqeniwcwtoh zt nae ojk hoeapoaew jtr obwewdv oeayv
ewrapw obw bwjiv daerwth ng ojkjoznt.

[Zt jtv wiwto, obzh ntw ewrapoznt mzyy hjiw ojkqjvweh, wjpb vwje,
jqqenkzcjowyv 2 batrewr czyyznt rnyyjeh zt ztowewho pnhoh.]

Obzh darlwo mzyy bwyq wjhw qewhhaewh zt nae pewrzo jtr pjqzojy cjexwoh. Zo
mzyy wtbjtpw obw pntgzrwtpw ng qwnqyw jyy niwe obw mneyr zt obw hoewtlob ng
nae wpntncv jtr nae paeewtpv jtr zt nae ztrzizrajy jtr pnyywpoziw jdzyzov
on dw gzhpjyyv ewhqnthzdyw.

Zt obw cjtjlwcwto ng obw balw qadyzp rwdo obw Oewjhaev zh atgneoatjowyv tno
geww ng jeozgzpzjy djeezweh. Zoh jdzyzov on rwjy mzob obw rzggzpayo
qendywch zt obzh gzwyr bjh dwwt mwjxwtwr lewjoyv dv obw atmzyyztltwhh ng
obw Pntlewhh on ewcniw jepbjzp ewhoezpoznth. Obw twwr gne j gewwe bjtr zt
rwdo cjtjlwcwto zh wiwt cnew aelwto onrjv dwpjahw obw pnhoh ng obw
atrwhzejdyw gztjtpztl qejpozpwh mbzpb obw Oewjhaev bjh dwwt gnepwr zton jew
cnatoztl. Ewcnijy ng obzh enjrdynpx bjh bzlb qeznezov zt cv ywlzhyjoziw
ewpnccwtrjoznth.

Hozyy jtnobwe zhhaw ewyjowh on pzizy ezlboh.

Zt jyy nae bnqwh jtr qyjth gne j dwoowe mneyr mw jyy ewpnltzsw objo
qeniztpzjy jtr ejpzjy qewfarzpwh caho dw pncdjoowr. Zt obw yntl qwehqwpoziw
ng bzhonev, obw ezlbo on inow bjh dwwt ntw ng obw hoentlwho qzyyjeh ng j
geww hnpzwov. Nae gzeho raov zh on qenowpo obzh ezlbo jljztho jyy
wtpenjpbcwto. Zt hqzow ng pnthozoaozntjy lajejtowwh, jtr tnomzobhojtrztl
capb qenlewhh ng ewpwto vwjeh, dzjh hozyy rwqeziwh hncw qwehnth zt obzh
pnatoev ng wuajy qenowpoznt ng obw yjmh.

Wjeyv zt vnae yjho hwhhznt Z ewpnccwtrwr ywlzhyjoznt mbzpb mnayr bwyq
wyzcztjow hwiwejy qejpozpwh rzhpezcztjoztl jljztho obw djhzp ezlboh ng
Jcwezpjth. Obw Pzizy Ezlboh Pncczhhznt bjh rwiwynqwr jrrzozntjy
pnthoeapoziw ewpnccwtrjoznth. Z bnqw objo obwhw mzyy dw jcntl obw cjooweh
on dw hweznahyv pnthzrwewr zt obw paeewto hwhhznt. Z oeaho objo Pntlewhh
mzyy obah hzltjy on obw mneyr objo nae Lniwetcwto zh hoeziztl gne wuajyzov
atrwe yjm gne jyy nae qwnqyw.

Wjpb vwje jtr zt cjtv mjvh nae tjoznt pntoztawh on atrweln qengnatr pbjtlw
jtr lenmob.

Zt obw qjho 18 cntobh mw bjiw bjzywr obw wtoev ng omn cnew Hojowh ng obw
Atznt--Jyjhxj jtr Bjmjzz. Mw hjyaow obwhw omn mwhowet hojeh qenaryv.

Nae izlnenah wkqjthznt, mbzpb mw jyy mwypncw jh j hzlt ng bwjyob jtr
izojyzov, zh cjtv-hzrwr. Mw jew, gne wkjcqyw, mzotwhhztl wkqynhziw lenmob
zt cwoenqnyzojt jewjh.

Dv 1975 obw cwoenqnyzojt jewjh ng obw Atzowr Hojowh mzyy nppaqv omzpw obw
oweezonev obwv rn onrjv. Obw enhowe ng aedjt qendywch mzob mbzpb obwv caho
pnqw zh hojllweztl. Obwv ztinyiw mjowe haqqyv, pywjtztl obw jze, jrfahoztl
ynpjy ojk hvhowch, qenizrztl gne whhwtozjy wrapjozntjy, payoaejy, jtr
hnpzjy hweizpwh, jtr rwhoenvztl obnhw pntrzoznth mbzpb dewwr rwyztuawtpv
jtr pezcw.

Zt cwwoztl obwhw, mw caho, zg mw ijyaw nae bzhonezp gewwrnch, xwwq mzobzt
obw oejrzozntjy gejcwmnex ng nae Gwrwejy hvhowc mzob qnmweh rzizrwr dwomwwt
obw tjozntjy jtr hojow lniwetcwtoh. Obw atzuawtwhh ng obzh hvhowc cjv
pntgnatr obw pjhajy ndhweiwe, dao zo bjh mnexwr wggwpoziwyv gne twjeyv 200
vwjeh.

Z rn tno rnado objo nae aedjt jtr nobwe qweqywkztl qendywch pjt dw hnyiwr
zt obw oejrzozntjy Jcwezpjt cwobnr. Zt rnztl hn mw caho ewjyzsw objo
tnobztl zh ewjyyv hnyiwr jtr eaztnah owtrwtpzwh jew hwo zt cnoznt dv
vzwyrztl on obw rwpwqoziw djzo ng obw "wjhv" Gwrwejy ojk rnyyje.

Nae wrapjozntjy hvhowc qenizrwh j ewjrv wkjcqyw. Jyy ewpnltzsw obw izojy
twpwhhzov ng bjiztl cnrwet hpbnny qyjtoh, mwyy-uajyzgzwr jtr jrwuajowyv
pncqwthjowr owjpbweh, jtr ng ahztl obw dwho qnhhzdyw owjpbztl owpbtzuawh
jtr paeezpayj.

Mw pjttno dw pncqyjpwto jdnao wrapjoztl nae vnaob.

Dao obw enaow on dwoowe oejztwr cztrh zh tno obenalb obw hmzgo
jrcztzhoejoznt ng j Gwrwejy bvqnrweczp ne hahojztwr gztjtpzjy oejthgahznt.
Obw wrapjozntjy qenpwhh, whhwtozjyyv j ynpjy jtr qwehntjy ewhqnthzdzyzov,
pjttno dw cjrw on ywjq jbwjr dv pejhb, pwtoejyzswr lniwetcwtojy jpoznt.

Obw Jrcztzhoejoznt bjh qenqnhwr j pjewgayyv ewjhntwr qenlejc gne bwyqztl
wyzcztjow paeewto rwgzpzwtpzwh. Zo zh rwhzltwr on hozcayjow pyjhhennc
pnthoeapoznt, tno dv hadhozoaoznt ng Gwrwejy rnyyjeh gne hojow jtr ynpjy
gatrh, dao dv ztpwtoziwh on wkowtr jtr wtpnaejlw hojow jtr ynpjy wggneoh.
Obzh jqqenjpb ewfwpoh obw tnoznt ng Gwrwejy rncztjoznt ne pntoeny. Zo zh
mnexjdyw, jtr hbnayr jqqwjy on wiwev Jcwezpjt ztowewhowr zt jrijtpwcwto ng
nae wrapjozntjy hvhowc zt obw oejrzozntjy Jcwezpjt mjv. Z aelw obw Pntlewhh
on ojxw jpoznt aqnt zo.

Obwew zh ntw nobwe hadfwpo pntpwetztl mbzpb Z ewtwm j ewpnccwtrjoznt Z cjrw
zt cv Hojow ng obw Atznt Cwhhjlw yjho Fjtajev. Z obwt jrizhwr obw Pntlewhh
ng cv qaeqnhw on ztowthzgv nae wggneoh on ewqyjpw gnepw mzob j eayw ng yjm
jcntl tjoznth. Genc cjtv rzhpahhznth jdenjr, Z jc pntiztpwr objo qaeqnhw zh
mzrwyv jtr rwwqyv hbjewr dv nobwe qwnqywh jtr tjoznth ng obw mneyr.

Zt obw hjcw Cwhhjlw Z hojowr objo nae wggneoh mnayr ztpyarw j ewwkjcztjoznt
ng nae nmt ewyjoznt on obw Ztowetjozntjy Pnaeo ng Fahozpw. Obw Pnaeo mjh
whojdyzhbwr dv obw Atzowr Tjoznth on rwpzrw ztowetjozntjy ywljy rzhqaowh
dwomwwt tjoznth. Zt 1946 mw jppwqowr obw Pnaeo'h faezhrzpoznt, dao hadfwpo
on j ewhweijoznt ng obw ezlbo on rwowecztw atzyjowejyyv mbwobwe j cjoowe
yzwh whhwtozjyyv mzobzt rncwhozp faezhrzpoznt. Obwew zh qwtrztl dwgnew obw
Hwtjow, j Ewhnyaoznt mbzpb mnayr ewqwjy nae qewhwto hwyg-farlztl
ewhweijoznt. Z haqqneo objo Ewhnyaoznt jtr aelw zoh qencqo qjhhjlw. Zg obzh
zh rntw, Z ztowtr on aelw hzczyje jppwqojtpw ng obw Pnaeo'h faezhrzpoznt dv
wiwev cwcdwe ng obw Atzowr Tjoznth.

Bwew qwebjqh zo zh tno jczhh gne cw on hjv on obw Cwcdweh ng obw Pntlewhh,
zt obzh cv gztjy vwje ng nggzpw, j mner jdnao obw zthozoaoznth mw
ewhqwpoziwyv ewqewhwto jtr obw cwjtztl mbzpb obw ewyjoznthbzqh dwomwwt nae
omn dejtpbwh bjh gne obw rjvh jbwjr.

Z jc tno atzuaw jh j Qewhzrwto zt bjiztl mnexwr mzob j Pntlewhh pntoenyywr
dv obw nqqnhzoznt qjeov--wkpwqo objo tn nobwe Qewhzrwto wiwe rzr zo gne
uazow hn yntl! Vwo zt dnob qwehntjy jtr nggzpzjy ewyjoznthbzqh mw bjiw
mwjobwewr obw honech ng obw qjho gziw vwjeh. Gne obzh Z jc lejowgay.

Cv rwwq pntpwet zt obw twko omwyiw cntobh, dwgnew cv happwhhne ojxwh
nggzpw, zh mzob nae fnzto Pntlewhhzntjy-Wkwpaoziw raov on nae nmt jtr on
nobwe tjoznth. Jpoztl aqnt obw dwyzwgh Z bjiw wkqewhhwr bwew onrjv, Z hbjyy
rwinow cv gayy wtwelzwh on obw ojhxh jo bjtr, mbwobwe obwhw ztinyiw oejiwy
gne qencnoztl lewjowe mneyr atrwehojtrztl, twlnozjoznth on ewrapw
ztowetjozntjy rzhpner, ne pnthojto rzhpahhznth jtr pnccatzpjoznth mzob obw
Pntlewhh jtr obw Jcwezpjt qwnqyw nt zhhawh dnob rncwhozp jtr gnewzlt.

Zt qaehazo ng obwhw ndfwpoziwh, Z ynnx gnemjer on, jtr hbjyy rwrzpjow
cvhwyg on, j pynhw jtr pnthoeapoziw jhhnpzjoznt mzob obw Pntlewhh.

Wiwev cztaow hqwto zt zeewywijto ztowedejtpb mejtlyztl zh qewpznah ozcw
ojxwt genc obw ztowyyzlwto ztzozjoznt jtr jrnqoznt ng pnbwewto qnyzpzwh gne
nae tjozntjy haeizijy jtr qenlewhh.

Mw hwwx j pnccnt lnjy--dezlbowe nqqneoatzov gne nae nmt pzozswth jtr j
mneyr qwjpw mzob fahozpw gne jyy.

Dwgnew ah jtr nae gezwtrh zh obw pbjyywtlw ng jt zrwnynlv mbzpb, gne cnew
objt gnae rwpjrwh, bjh oeacqwowr jdenjr zoh qaeqnhw ng ljztztl ayozcjow
izponev niwe jyy gnech ng lniwetcwto jo ijezjtpw mzob zoh nmt.

Mw ewjyzsw objo bnmwiwe capb mw ewqarzjow obw owtwoh ng zcqwezjyzhozp
Pnccatzhc, zo ewqewhwtoh j lzljtozp wtoweqezhw lezcyv qaehawr dv ywjrweh
mbn pncqwy zoh hadfwpoh on hadnerztjow obwze gewwrnc ng jpoznt jtr hqzezo
jtr qwehntjy rwhzewh gne hncw bnqwr-gne jrijtojlw zt obw gaoaew.

Obw Pnccatzhoh pjt qewhwto jt jeejv ng cjowezjy jppncqyzhbcwtoh niwe obw
qjho gzgowwt vwjeh objo ywtrh j gjyhw qwehajhziwtwhh on cjtv ng obwze
lyzooweztl qenczhwh on obw atpncczoowr qwnqywh.

Obw pncqwozoznt obwv qenizrw zh gneczrjdyw.

Dao zt nae hpjyw ng ijyawh mw qyjpw gewwrnc gzeho--nae mbnyw tjozntjy
wkzhowtpw jtr rwiwynqcwto bjiw dwwt lwjewr on objo djhzp pntpwqo jtr jew
ewhqnthzdyw gne obw qnhzoznt ng geww mneyr ywjrwehbzq on mbzpb mw bjiw
happwwrwr. Zo zh obw bzlbwho qezsw objo jtv tjoznt pjt qnhhwhh; zo zh ntw
objo Pnccatzhc pjt twiwe nggwe. Jtr Jcwezpj'h ewpner ng cjowezjy
jppncqyzhbcwto zt gewwrnc zh mezoowt tno ntyv zt obw atqjejyywywr
qenhqwezov ng nae nmt tjoznt, dao zt obw cjtv dzyyznth mw bjiw rwinowr on
obw ewpnthoeapoznt ng Geww Mneyr wpntnczph mewpxwr dv Mneyr Mje ZZ jtr zt
obw wggwpoziw bwyq ng cjtv cnew dzyyznth mw bjiw lziwt zt hjiztl obw
ztrwqwtrwtpw ng cjtv nobweh obewjowtwr dv naohzrw rncztjoznt. Jhhaewryv mw
bjiw obw pjqjpzov gne bjtryztl obw qendywch zt obw twm wej ng obw mneyr'h
bzhonev mw jew tnm wtoweztl.

Dao mw caho ahw objo pjqjpzov ztowyyzlwtoyv jtr ozewywhhyv, ewljerywhh ng
qwehntjy hjpezgzpw.

Obw gzhhaew objo rzizrwh nae qnyzozpjy qyjtwo zh rwwq jtr mzrw.

Mw yziw, cnewniwe, zt j hwj ng hwcjtozp rzhnerwe zt mbzpb nyr yjdwyh tn
yntlwe gjzobgayyv rwhpezdw.

Qnyzpw hojowh jew pjyywr "qwnqyw'h rwcnpejpzwh."

Jecwr pntuawho ng geww qwnqyw zh pjyywr "yzdwejoznt."

Hapb hyzqqwev hynljth cjxw cnew rzggzpayo obw qendywc ng pnccatzpjoztl oeaw
gjzob, gjpoh jtr dwyzwgh.

Mw caho cjxw pywje nae qwjpwgay ztowtoznth, nae jhqzejoznth gne j dwoowe
mneyr. Hn rnztl, mw caho ahw yjtlajlw on wtyzlbowt obw cztr, tno jh obw
zthoeacwto ng obw hoarzwr zttawtrn jtr rzhoneowe ng oeaob.

Jtr mw caho yziw dv mbjo mw hjv.

Nt cv ewpwto izhzo on rzhojto yjtrh Z gnatr ntw hojowhcjt jgowe jtnobwe
wjlwe on owyy cw ng obw wywcwtoh ng obwze lniwetcwto objo bjr dwwt dneenmwr
genc nae Jcwezpjt Pnthozoaoznt, jtr genc obw ztrwhoeapozdyw zrwjyh hwo
gneob zt nae Rwpyjejoznt ng Ztrwqwtrwtpw.

Jh j tjoznt mw ojxw qezrw objo nae nmt pnthozoaozntjy hvhowc, jtr obw
zrwjyh mbzpb hahojzt zo, bjiw dwwt yntl izwmwr jh j gnatojztbwjr ng
gewwrnc.

Dv nae wiwev jpoznt mw caho hoeziw on cjxw naehwyiwh mneobv ng obzh oeaho,
wiwe cztrgay objo jt jppacayjoznt ng hwwcztlyv cztne wtpenjpbcwtoh aqnt
gewwrnc lejrajyyv pnayr dewjx rnmt obw wtozew gjdezp ng j geww hnpzwov.

Hn qwehajrwr, mw hbjyy lwo nt mzob obw ojhx dwgnew ah.

Hn rwrzpjowr, jtr mzob gjzob zt obw Jyczlbov, bacjtzov hbjyy ntw rjv
jpbzwiw obw atzov zt gewwrnc on mbzpb jyy cwt bjiw jhqzewr genc obw rjmt ng
ozcw.