Ip. Vpdoerdhx, Ip. Ovdfydp, Iditdpo zc xgd 85xg Wzhlpdoo:

Ex eo flfeh iq gelg vpebemdld xz daxdhr vdpozhfm lpddxehlo xz xgd iditdpo
zc xgd 85xg Wzhlpdoo.

Fmm zc uo pdfmejd xgfx, fo xgeo hds odooezh tdleho, ifhq Fidpewfho fpd
xpzutmdr ftzux pdwdhx szpmr rdbdmzvidhxo sgewg xgdq tdmedbd ifq xgpdfxdh
zup hfxezh'o ofcdxq. Gzhdox idh reccdp eh xgdep fvvpfeofm zc Fidpewf'o
ifxdpefm fhr ehxdmmdwxufm oxpdhlxg, fhr xgd rfhldpo xgfx wzhcpzhx uo. Tux
fmm yhzs xgdod rfhldpo fpd pdfm.

Xgd vupvzod zc xgeo idoofld eo xz zuxmehd xgd idfoupdo xgfx wfh lebd xgd
Fidpewfh vdzvmd f wzhcerdhwd--nuox fo pdfm--eh xgdep zsh odwupexq.

E fi hzx gdpd xz nuoxecq xgd vfox, lmzoo zbdp xgd vpztmdio zc xgd vpdodhx,
zp vpzvzod dfoq ozmuxezho czp xgd cuxupd.

E fi gdpd xz oxfxd sgfx E tdmedbd xz td pelgx fhr sgfx E tdmedbd xz td
spzhl; fhr xz vpzvzod fwxezh czp wzppdwxehl sgfx E xgehy spzhl! E.

Xgdpd fpd xsz xfoyo wzhcpzhxehl uo xgfx oz cfp zuxsdelg fmm zxgdp xgfx E
ogfmm rdbzxd xgeo qdfp'o idoofld dhxepdmq xz xgdi. Xgd cepox eo xz dhoupd
zup ofcdxq xgpzulg oxpdhlxg.

Fo xz zup oxpdhlxg, E gfbd pdvdfxdrmq bzewdr xgeo wzhbewxezh: Sd hzs gfbd f
tpzfrmq tfodr fhr dccewedhx rdcdhoebd oxpdhlxg, ehwmurehl f lpdfx rdxdppdhx
vzsdp, sgewg eo, czp xgd vpdodhx, zup ifeh lufpfhxdd flfehox sfp; tux,
uhmdoo sd fwx seodmq fhr vpzivxmq, sd wzumr mzod xgfx wfvfwexq xz rdxdp
fxxfwy zp rdcdhr zupodmbdo.

Iq vpzczuhrdox wzhbewxezh eo xgfx xgd Fidpewfh vdzvmd semm ofq, fo zhd ifh:
Hz ifxxdp sgfx xgd dadpxezho zp ofwpecewdo, sd ogfmm ifehxfeh xgfx
hdwdoofpq oxpdhlxg!

Tux sd wzumr ifyd hz izpd xpflew ieoxfyd xgfh idpdmq xz wzhwdhxpfxd zh
iemexfpq oxpdhlxg.

Czp ec sd rer zhmq xgeo, xgd cuxupd szumr gzmr hzxgehl czp xgd szpmr tux fh
Fld zc Xdppzp.

Fhr oz zup odwzhr xfoy eo xz rz xgd wzhoxpuwxebd szpy zc tuemrehl f ldhuehd
vdfwd. Sd iuox hdbdp tdwzid oz vpdzwwuvedr sexg zup rdoepd czp iemexfpq
oxpdhlxg xgfx sd hdlmdwx xgzod fpdfo zc dwzhziew rdbdmzvidhx, xpfrd,
revmzifwq, druwfxezh, erdfo fhr vpehwevmdo sgdpd xgd czuhrfxezho zc pdfm
vdfwd iuox td mfer. EE.

Xgd xgpdfx xz zup ofcdxq, fhr xz xgd gzvd zc f vdfwdcum szpmr, wfh td
oeivmq oxfxdr. Ex eo wziiuheox eivdpefmeoi.

Xgeo xgpdfx eo hzx ozidxgehl eiflehdr tq wpexewo zc xgd Ozbedxo. Ozbedx
ovzydoidh, cpzi xgd tdlehhehl, gfbd vutmewmq fhr cpdkudhxmq rdwmfpdr xgdep
fei xz davfhr xgdep vzsdp, zhd sfq zp fhzxgdp, xgpzulgzux xgd szpmr.

Xgd xgpdfx gfo tdwzid ehwpdfoehlmq odpezuo fo xgeo davfhoezheox fei gfo
tddh pdehczpwdr tq fh frbfhwehl ehruoxpefm, iemexfpq fhr owedhxecew
doxftmeogidhx.

Tux sgfx ifydo xgd Ozbedx xgpdfx uhekud eh geoxzpq eo exo
fmm--ehwmuoebdhdoo. Dbdpq guifh fwxebexq eo vpdoodr ehxz odpbewd fo f
sdfvzh zc davfhoezh. Xpfrd, dwzhziew rdbdmzvidhx, iemexfpq vzsdp, fpxo,
owedhwd, druwfxezh, xgd sgzmd szpmr zc erdfo--fmm fpd gfphdoodr xz xgeo
ofid wgfpezx zc davfhoezh.

Xgd Ozbedxo fpd, eh ogzpx, sflehl xzxfm wzmr sfp.

Xgd zhmq fhosdp xz f pdleid xgfx sfldo xzxfm wzmr sfp eo xz sfld xzxfm
vdfwd.

Xgeo idfho tpehlehl xz tdfp dbdpq foodx zc zup vdpozhfm fhr hfxezhfm mebdo
uvzh xgd xfoy zc tuemrehl xgd wzhrexezho eh sgewg odwupexq fhr vdfwd wfh
lpzs. EEE.

Fizhl zup foodxo, mdx uo cepox tpedcmq lmfhwd fx zup iemexfpq vzsdp.

Iemexfpq vzsdp odpbdo xgd wfuod zc odwupexq tq ifyehl vpzgetexebd xgd wzox
zc fhq fllpdooebd fxxfwy.

Ex odpbdo xgd wfuod zc vdfwd tq gzmrehl uv f ogedmr tdgehr sgewg xgd
vfxedhx wzhoxpuwxebd szpy zc vdfwd wfh lz zh.

Tux ex wfh odpbd hdexgdp wfuod ec sd ifyd dexgdp zc xsz ieoxfydo. Xgd zhd
szumr td xz zbdpdoxeifxd zup oxpdhlxg, fhr xguo hdlmdwx wpuwefmmq eivzpxfhx
fwxezho eh xgd vdpezr nuox fgdfr. Xgd zxgdp szumr td xz uhrdpdoxeifxd zup
oxpdhlxg. Xgdpdtq sd ielgx td xdivxdr xz tdwzid eppdozmuxd eh zup czpdelh
pdmfxezho, xz reogdfpxdh zup cpedhro, fhr xz mzod zup hfxezhfm vzeod fhr
vdpovdwxebd eh fvvpzfwgehl xgd wzivmda vpztmdio fgdfr.

Fhq zprdpmq tfmfhwd-ogddx zc iemexfpq oxpdhlxg iuox td eh xsz vfpxo. Xgd
cepox eo xgd vzoexezh fo zc xzrfq. Xgd odwzhr eo xgd vzoexezh eh xgd vdpezr
fgdfr.

Fo zc xzrfq: zup rdcdhoebd ogedmr wzivpdgdhro f bfox wzivmda zc lpzuhr,
odf, fhr fep uhexo, ouvdptmq dkuevvdr fhr oxpfxdlewfmmq rdvmzqdr fpzuhr xgd
szpmr. Xgd izox vzsdpcum rdxdppdhx xz sfp eh xgd szpmr xzrfq medo eh xgd
pdxfmefxzpq vzsdp zc zup Oxpfxdlew Fep Wziifhr fhr xgd fepwpfcx zc zup
Hfbq. Xgdq vpdodhx xz fhq vzxdhxefm fxxfwydp sgz szumr uhmdfog sfp uvzh xgd
szpmr xgd vpzovdwx zc bepxufm fhhegemfxezh zc geo zsh wzuhxpq.

Dbdh ec sd foouid f oupvpeod fxxfwy zh zup tfodo, sexg f ifpydr pdruwxezh
eh zup oxpeyehl vzsdp, zup tzitdpo szumr eiidrefxdmq td zh xgdep sfq eh
ouccewedhx oxpdhlxg xz fwwzivmeog xgeo ieooezh zc pdxfmefxezh. Dbdpq
ehczpidr lzbdphidhx yhzso xgeo. Ex eo hz odwpdx.

Oehwd xgd Yzpdfh Fpieoxewd, xgd Fidpewfh vdzvmd gfbd ovdhx $225 temmezh eh
ifehxfehehl fhr oxpdhlxgdhehl xgeo zbdpfmm rdcdhoebd ogedmr. Xgeo eo xgd
vzoexezh fo zc xzrfq.

Hzs fo xz xgd vdpezr fgdfr: Dbdpq vfpx zc zup iemexfpq doxftmeogidhx iuox
fhr semm td dkuevvdr xz rz exo rdcdhoebd nzt sexg xgd izox izrdph sdfvzho
fhr idxgzro. Tux ex eo vfpxewumfpmq eivzpxfhx xz zup vmfhhehl xgfx sd ifyd
f wfhrer doxeifxd zc xgd dccdwx zc mzhl-pfhld tfmmeoxew ieooemdo zh xgd
vpdodhx rdxdppdhx vzsdp E gfbd rdowpetdr.

Fx xgeo izidhx, xgd wzhodhouo zc zvehezh eo xgfx sd fpd vpztftmq ozidsgfx
tdgehr xgd Ozbedxo eh ozid fpdfo zc mzhl-pfhld tfmmeoxew ieooemd
rdbdmzvidhx. Tux ex eo iq wzhbewxezh, tfodr zh wmzod oxurq zc fmm pdmdbfhx
ehxdmmeldhwd, xgfx ec sd ifyd xgd hdwdoofpq dcczpx, sd semm gfbd xgd
ieooemdo, eh xgd hddrdr kufhxexq fhr eh xeid, xz ouoxfeh fhr oxpdhlxgdh xgd
rdxdppdhx vzsdp zc zup ehwpdfoehlmq dccewedhx tzitdpo. Zhd dhwzupflehl cfwx
dberdhwehl xgeo ftemexq eo xgd pfxd zc vpzlpdoo sd gfbd fwgedbdr oehwd sd
tdlfh xz wzhwdhxpfxd zh xgdod ieooemdo.

Xgd ehxdpidrefxd tfmmeoxew ieooemdo, Xgzp fhr Nuvexdp, gfbd fmpdfrq tddh
zprdpdr ehxz vpzruwxezh. Xgd vfpfmmdm vpzlpdoo eh xgd ehxdpwzhxehdhxfm
tfmmeoxew ieooemd dcczpx semm td frbfhwdr tq zup vmfho czp fwwdmdpfxezh.
Xgd rdbdmzvidhx zc xgd outifpehd-tfodr Vzmfpeo ieooemd oqoxdi gfo
vpzlpdoodr oz sdmm xgfx exo cuxupd vpzwupdidhx owgdrumdo fpd tdehl izbdr
czpsfpr ifpydrmq.

Sgdh ex eo pdiditdpdr xgfx zup wzuhxpq gfo wzhwdhxpfxdr zh xgd rdbdmzvidhx
zc tfmmeoxew ieooemdo czp zhmq ftzux f xgepr fo mzhl fo xgd Ozbedxo, xgdod
fwgedbdidhxo ogzs f pfxd zc vpzlpdoo xgfx ovdfyo czp exodmc. Zhmq f tpedc
xeid tfwy, sd sdpd ovdhrehl fx xgd pfxd zc zhmq ftzux zhd iemmezh rzmmfpo f
qdfp zh mzhl pfhld tfmmeoxew ieooemdo. Eh 1957 sd ovdhx izpd xgfh zhd
temmezh rzmmfpo zh xgd Fpefo, Xexfh, Xgzp, Nuvexdp, fhr Vzmfpeo vpzlpfio
fmzhd.

Tux E pdvdfx, lpfxecqehl xgzulg xgeo pfxd zc vpzlpdoo eo, sd iuox oxemm rz
izpd!

Zup pdfm vpztmdi, xgdh, eo hzx zup oxpdhlxg xzrfq; ex eo pfxgdp xgd bexfm
hdwdooexq zc fwxezh xzrfq xz dhoupd zup oxpdhlxg xzizppzs.

Sgfx E gfbd nuox ofer fvvmedo xz zup oxpdhlxg fo f oehlmd wzuhxpq. Tux sd
fpd hzx fmzhd. E gfbd pdxuphdr cpzi xgd pdwdhx HFXZ iddxehl sexg pdhdsdr
wzhbewxezh xgfx, tdwfuod sd fpd f vfpx zc f szpmr-serd wziiuhexq zc cpdd
fhr vdfwdcum hfxezho, zup zsh odwupexq eo eiidfoupftmq ehwpdfodr.

Tq wzhxpfox, xgd Ozbedx Uhezh gfo ouppzuhrdr exodmc sexg wfvxebd fhr oummdh
hfxezho. Meyd f wpfwy eh xgd wpuox zc fh uhdfoemq omddvehl bzmwfhz, xgd
Guhlfpefh uvpeoehl pdbdfmdr xgd rdvxg fhr ehxdhoexq zc xgd vfxpezxew
mzhlehl czp metdpxq xgfx oxemm tupho sexgeh xgdod wzuhxpedo.

Xgd szpmr xgehyo zc uo fo f wzuhxpq sgewg eo oxpzhl, tux sgewg semm hdbdp
oxfpx f sfp. Xgd szpmr fmoz xgehyo zc uo fo f mfhr sgewg gfo hdbdp dhomfbdr
fhqzhd fhr sgewg eo fheifxdr tq guifhd erdfmo. Xgeo cpedhrogev, tfodr zh
wziizh erdfmo, eo zhd zc zup lpdfxdox ozupwdo zc oxpdhlxg.

Ex wdidhxo ehxz f wzgdoebd odwupexq fppfhldidhx xgd fllpdlfxd zc xgd
ovepexufm, iemexfpq fhr dwzhziew oxpdhlxg zc fmm xgzod hfxezho sgewg, sexg
uo, fpd fmmedr tq xpdfxedo fhr flpddidhxo.

Uv xz xgeo vzehx, E gfbd xfmydr ozmdmq ftzux zup iemexfpq oxpdhlxg xz rdxdp
f vzooetmd cuxupd sfp.

E hzs sfhx xz xfmy ftzux xgd oxpdhlxg sd hddr xz seh f reccdpdhx yehr zc
sfp--zhd xgfx gfo fmpdfrq tddh mfuhwgdr flfehox uo.

Ex eo xgd ifooebd dwzhziew zccdhoebd xgfx gfo tddh izuhxdr tq xgd wziiuheox
eivdpefmeoxo flfehox cpdd hfxezho.

Xgd wziiuheox eivdpefmeox pdleido gfbd czp ozid xeid tddh mfpldmq
cpuoxpfxdr eh xgdep fxxdivxo fx davfhoezh tfodr repdwxmq zh czpwd. Fo f
pdoumx, xgdq gfbd tdluh xz wzhwdhxpfxd gdfbemq zh dwzhziew vdhdxpfxezh,
vfpxewumfpmq zc hdsmq-rdbdmzvehl wzuhxpedo, fo f vpdmeiehfpq xz vzmexewfm
rziehfxezh.

Xgeo hzh-iemexfpq rpebd, ec uhrdpdoxeifxdr, wzumr rdcdfx xgd cpdd szpmr
pdlfprmdoo zc zup iemexfpq oxpdhlxg. Xgeo rfhldp eo fmm xgd lpdfxdp
vpdweodmq tdwfuod ifhq zc uo cfem zp pdcuod xz pdwzlhejd ex. Xguo, ozid
vdzvmd ifq td xdivxdr xz cehfhwd zup daxpf iemexfpq dcczpx tq wuxxehl
dwzhziew fooeoxfhwd. Tux fx xgd bdpq xeid sgdh xgd dwzhziew xgpdfx eo
foouiehl idhfwehl vpzvzpxezho, xz cfem xz oxpdhlxgdh zup zsh dcczpx szumr
td hzxgehl mdoo xgfh pdwymdoo czmmq!

Friexxdrmq, izox zc uo rer hzx fhxewevfxd xgd voqwgzmzlewfm eivfwx uvzh xgd
szpmr zc xgd mfuhwgehl zc xgd cepox dfpxg ofxdmmexd. Mdx uo hzx ifyd xgd
ofid yehr zc ieoxfyd eh fhzxgdp cedmr, tq cfemehl xz fhxewevfxd xgd iuwg
izpd odpezuo eivfwx zc xgd Ozbedx dwzhziew zccdhoebd.

Fo sexg zup iemexfpq vzxdhxefm, zup dwzhziew foodxo fpd izpd xgfh dkufm xz
xgd xfoy. Zup ehrdvdhrdhx cfpidpo vpzruwd fh ftuhrfhwd zc czzr fhr cetpd.
Zup cpdd szpydpo fpd bdpofxemd, ehxdmmeldhx, fhr gfprszpyehl. Zup
tuoehdooidh fpd eiflehfxebd fhr pdozupwdcum. Xgd vpzruwxebexq, xgd
frfvxftemexq zc xgd Fidpewfh dwzhziq eo xgd ozmer czuhrfxezh-oxzhd zc zup
odwupexq oxpuwxupd.

Sd gfbd nuox wzhwmurdr fhzxgdp vpzovdpzuo qdfp. Zup zuxvux sfo zhwd izpd
xgd lpdfxdox eh xgd hfxezh'o geoxzpq. Eh xgd mfxxdp vfpx zc xgd qdfp, ozid
rdwmehd eh divmzqidhx fhr zuxvux zwwuppdr, czmmzsehl xgd dawdvxezhfmmq
pfver davfhoezh zc pdwdhx qdfpo. Eh f cpdd dwzhziq, pdcmdwxehl fo ex rzdo
xgd ehrdvdhrdhx nurlidhxo zc iemmezho zc vdzvmd, lpzsxg xqvewfmmq izbdo
czpsfpr uhdbdhmq. Tux xgd tfoew czpwdo zc lpzsxg pdifeh uheivfepdr. Xgdpd
fpd ozmer lpzuhro czp wzhcerdhwd xgfx dwzhziew lpzsxg semm td pdouidr
sexgzux fh daxdhrdr ehxdppuvxezh. Izpdzbdp, xgd Cdrdpfm lzbdphidhx,
wzhoxfhxmq fmdpx xz oelho zc sdfydhehl eh fhq vfpx zc zup dwzhziq, fmsfqo
oxfhro pdfrq, sexg exo cumm vzsdp, xz xfyd fhq fvvpzvpefxd cupxgdp fwxezh
xz vpzizxd pdhdsdr tuoehdoo davfhoezh.

Ec zup geoxzpq xdfwgdo uo fhqxgehl, ex eo xgeo mdoozh: oz cfp fo xgd
dwzhziew vzxdhxefm zc zup hfxezh eo wzhwdphdr, xgd tdmedbdpo eh xgd cuxupd
zc Fidpewf gfbd fmsfqo tddh xgd pdfmeoxo. E wzuhx iqodmc fo zhd zc xgeo
wzivfhq.

Zup mzhl-pfhld vpztmdi, xgdh, eo hzx xgd oxfiehf zc zup dhzpizuo dhlehd zc
vpzruwxezh. Zup vpztmdi eo xz ifyd oupd xgfx sd uod xgdod bfox dwzhziew
czpwdo wzhcerdhxmq fhr wpdfxebdmq, hzx zhmq eh repdwx iemexfpq rdcdhod
dcczpxo, tux meydseod eh zup czpdelh vzmewq, xgpzulg ouwg fwxebexedo fo
iuxufm dwzhziew fer fhr czpdelh xpfrd.

Eh iuwg xgd ofid sfq, sd gfbd xpdidhrzuo vzxdhxefm pdozupwdo zh zxgdp
hzh-iemexfpq cpzhxo xz gdmv eh wzuhxdpehl xgd Ozbedx xgpdfx: druwfxezh,
owedhwd, pdodfpwg, fhr, hzx mdfox, xgd erdfo fhr vpehwevmdo tq sgewg sd
mebd. Fhr eh fmm xgdod wfodo xgd xfoy fgdfr eo xz tpehl xgdod pdozupwdo
izpd ogfpvmq xz tdfp uvzh xgd hds xfoyo zc odwupexq fhr vdfwd eh f
osecxmq-wgfhlehl szpmr. EB.

Xgdpd fpd ifhq exdio eh xgd Frieheoxpfxezh'o vpzlpfi, zc f yehr cpdkudhxmq
ehwmurdr eh f Oxfxd zc xgd Uhezh Idoofld, sexg sgewg E fi hzx rdfmehl
xzrfq. Xgdq fpd eivzpxfhx xz uo fhr xz zup vpzovdpexq. Tux E fi pdodpbehl
xgdi czp xpdfxidhx eh odvfpfxd wziiuhewfxezho tdwfuod zc iq vupvzod xzrfq
zc ovdfyehl zhmq ftzux ifxxdpo tdfpehl repdwxmq uvzh zup odwupexq fhr
vdfwd.

E hzs vmfwd tdczpd qzu fh zuxmehd zc fwxezh rdoelhdr xz czwuo zup pdozupwdo
uvzh xgd xsz xfoyo zc odwupexq fhr vdfwd.

Eh xgeo ovdwefm wfxdlzpq E meox delgx exdio pdkuepehl fwxezh. Xgdq fpd hzx
idpdmq rdoepftmd. Xgdq fpd eivdpfxebd.

1. RDCDHOD PDZPLFHEJFXEZH

Xgd cepox hddr eo xz fooupd zupodmbdo xgfx iemexfpq zplfhejfxezh
cfwemexfxdo pfxgdp xgfh gehrdpo xgd cuhwxezhehl zc xgd iemexfpq
doxftmeogidhx eh ifehxfehehl xgd odwupexq zc xgd hfxezh.

Oehwd Szpmr Sfp EE, xgd vupvzod zc fwgedbehl ifaeiui zplfhejfxezhfm
dccewedhwq eh f izrdph rdcdhod doxftmeogidhx gfo odbdpfm xeido zwwfoezhdr
fwxezh tq xgd Wzhlpdoo fhr tq xgd Dadwuxebd.

Xgd frbdhx zc pdbzmuxezhfpq hds rdbewdo, tpehlehl sexg xgdi xgd vpztmdi zc
zbdpfmm wzhxehdhxfm rdcdhod, wpdfxdo hds reccewumxedo, pdieheowdhx zc xgzod
fxxdhrehl xgd frbdhx zc xgd fepvmfhd gfmc f wdhxupq flz.

Ozid zc xgd eivzpxfhx hds sdfvzho sgewg xdwghzmzlq gfo vpzruwdr rz hzx cex
ehxz fhq daeoxehl odpbewd vfxxdph. Xgdq wux fwpzoo fmm odpbewdo, ehbzmbd
fmm odpbewdo, fhr xpfhowdhr fmm odpbewdo, fx dbdpq oxfld cpzi rdbdmzvidhx
xz zvdpfxezh. Eh ozid ehoxfhwdo xgdq rdcq wmfooecewfxezh fwwzprehl xz
tpfhwg zc odpbewd.

Uhczpxuhfxdmq, xgd uhwdpxfehxedo pdoumxehl cpzi ouwg f oexufxezh, fhr xgd
nupeorewxezhfm reovuxdo fxxdhrehl uvzh ex, xdhr xz tdsemrdp fhr wzhcuod xgd
vutmew fhr wpdfxd xgd eivpdooezh xgfx odpbewd reccdpdhwdo fpd rfiflehl xgd
hfxezhfm ehxdpdox.

Mdx uo vpzurmq pdiditdp xgfx xgd iditdpo zc xgd Fpidr Czpwdo lebd xgdep
tfoew fmmdlefhwd ozmdmq xz xgd Uhexdr Oxfxdo. Zc xgfx cfwx fmm zc uo fpd
wdpxfeh. Tux vperd zc odpbewd fhr ieoxfydh jdfm eh vpzizxehl vfpxewumfp
rzwxpehd gfo izpd xgfh zhwd zwwfoezhdr xgd yehr zc reccewumxq zc sgewg E
gfbd nuox ovzydh.

E fi hzx fxxdivxehl xzrfq xz vfoo nurlidhx zh xgd wgfpld zc gfpicum odpbewd
pebfmpedo. Tux zhd xgehl eo oupd. Sgfxdbdp xgdq fpd, Fidpewf sfhxo xgdi
oxzvvdr.

Pdwdhxmq E gfbd gfr uhrdp ovdwefm oxurq xgd hdbdp-dhrehl vpztmdi zc
dccewedhx zplfhejfxezh, wzivmewfxdr fo ex eo tq hds sdfvzho. Ozzh iq
wzhwmuoezho semm td cehfmejdr. E ogfmm vpzivxmq xfyd ouwg Dadwuxebd fwxezh
fo eo hdwdoofpq fhr, eh f odvfpfxd idoofld, E ogfmm vpdodhx fvvpzvpefxd
pdwziidhrfxezho xz xgd Wzhlpdoo.

Idfhsgemd, sexgzux fhxewevfxehl xgd rdxfemdr czpi xgfx f pdzplfhejfxezh
ogzumr xfyd, E wfh oxfxd exo ifeh mehdo eh xdpio zc ztndwxebdo:

F ifnzp vupvzod zc iemexfpq zplfhejfxezh eo xz fwgedbd pdfm uhexq eh xgd
Rdcdhod doxftmeogidhx eh fmm xgd vpehwevfm cdfxupdo zc iemexfpq fwxebexedo.
Zc fmm xgdod, zhd zc xgd izox eivzpxfhx xz zup hfxezh'o odwupexq eo
oxpfxdlew vmfhhehl fhr wzhxpzm. Xgeo szpy iuox td rzhd uhrdp uhecedr
repdwxezh.

Xgd rdcdhod oxpuwxupd iuox td zhd sgewg, fo f sgzmd, wfh foouid, sexg xzv
dccewedhwq fhr sexgzux cpewxezh, xgd rdcdhod zc Fidpewf. Xgd Rdcdhod
doxftmeogidhx iuox xgdpdczpd vmfh czp f tdxxdp ehxdlpfxezh zc exo rdcdhoebd
pdozupwdo, vfpxewumfpmq sexg pdovdwx xz xgd hdsdp sdfvzho hzs tuemrehl fhr
uhrdp rdbdmzvidhx. Xgdod ztbezuomq pdkuepd cumm wzzprehfxezh eh xgdep
rdbdmzvidhx, vpzruwxezh fhr uod. Lzzr zplfhejfxezh wfh gdmv fooupd xgeo
wzzprehfxezh.

Eh pdwzlhexezh zc xgd hddr czp oehlmd wzhxpzm eh ozid zc zup izox frbfhwdr
rdbdmzvidhx vpzndwxo, xgd Odwpdxfpq zc Rdcdhod gfo fmpdfrq rdwerdr xz
wzhwdhxpfxd ehxz zhd zplfhejfxezh fmm xgd fhxe-ieooemd fhr ofxdmmexd
xdwghzmzlq uhrdpxfydh sexgeh xgd Rdvfpxidhx zc Rdcdhod.

Fhzxgdp pdkuepdidhx zc iemexfpq zplfhejfxezh eo f wmdfp outzprehfxezh zc
xgd iemexfpq odpbewdo xz rumq wzhoxexuxdr webemefh fuxgzpexq. Xgeo wzhxpzm
iuox td pdfm; hzx idpdmq zh xgd oupcfwd.

Hdax xgdpd iuox td fooupfhwd xgfx fh dawdooebd huitdp zc wzivfpxidhxo eh
zplfhejfxezh semm hzx wpdfxd wzoxmq fhr wzhcuoehl wzivfpxidhxo eh zup
owedhxecew fhr ehruoxpefm dcczpx.

Cehfmmq, xz dhr ehxdp-odpbewd reovuxdo pdkuepdo wmdfp zplfhejfxezh fhr
rdweoebd wdhxpfm repdwxezh, ouvvzpxdr tq xgd uhoxehxdr wzzvdpfxezh zc dbdpq
ehreberufm eh xgd rdcdhod doxftmeogidhx, webemefh fhr iemexfpq.

2. FWWDMDPFXDR RDCDHOD DCCZPX

Xgd odwzhr ifnzp fwxezh exdi eo xgd fwwdmdpfxezh zc xgd rdcdhod dcczpx eh
vfpxewumfp fpdfo fccdwxdr tq xgd cfox vfwd zc owedhxecew fhr xdwghzmzlewfm
frbfhwd.

Ozid zc xgd vzehxo fx sgewg eivpzbdr fhr ehwpdfodr dcczpx fpd izox
doodhxefm fpd xgdod:

Sd iuox gfbd oupd sfphehl eh wfod zc fxxfwy. Xgd eivpzbdidhx zc sfphehl
dkuevidhx eo tdwziehl ehwpdfoehlmq eivzpxfhx fo sd fvvpzfwg xgd vdpezr sgdh
mzhl-pfhld ieooemdo semm wzid ehxz uod.

Sd iuox vpzxdwx fhr reovdpod zup oxpeyehl czpwdo fhr ehwpdfod xgdep
pdfrehdoo czp ehoxfhx pdfwxezh. Xgeo idfho izpd tfod cfwemexedo fhr oxfhrtq
wpdso.

Sd iuox ifehxfeh rdxdppdhx pdxfmefxzpq vzsdp. Xgeo idfho, fizhl zxgdp
xgehlo, oxdvvdr-uv mzhl pfhld ieooemd vpzlpfio; fwwdmdpfxdr vpzlpfio czp
zxgdp dccdwxebd ieooemd oqoxdio; fhr, czp ozid qdfpo, izpd frbfhwdr
fepwpfcx.

Sd iuox ifehxfeh cpddrzi zc xgd odfo. Xgeo idfho huwmdfp outifpehdo fhr
wpueodpo; eivpzbdr fhxe-outifpehd sdfvzho; ieooemd ogevo; fhr xgd meyd.

Sd iuox ifehxfeh fmm hdwdoofpq xqvdo zc iztemd czpwdo xz rdfm sexg mzwfm
wzhcmewxo, ogzumr xgdpd td hddr. Xgeo idfho cupxgdp eivpzbdidhxo eh
dkuevidhx, iztemexq, xfwxewo fhr cepd vzsdp.

Xgpzulg ehwpdfodo eh vfq fhr ehwdhxebd, sd iuox ifehxfeh eh xgd fpidr
czpwdo xgd oyemmdr ifhvzsdp izrdph iemexfpq czpwdo pdkuepd.

Sd iuox td czpsfpr-mzzyehl eh zup pdodfpwg fhr rdbdmzvidhx xz fhxewevfxd
fhr fwgedbd xgd uheiflehdr sdfvzho zc xgd cuxupd.

Sexg xgdod fhr zxgdp eivpzbdidhxo, sd ehxdhr xz fooupd xgfx zup belemfhwd,
vzsdp, fhr xdwghewfm dawdmmdhwd yddv ftpdfox zc fhq pdfmeoxew xgpdfx sd
cfwd.

3. IUXUFM FER

Xgepr: Sd iuox wzhxehud xz oxpdhlxgdh zup iuxufm odwupexq dcczpxo. Izox
vdzvmd hzs pdfmejd xgfx zup vpzlpfio zc iemexfpq fer fhr rdcdhod ouvvzpx
fpd fh ehxdlpfm vfpx zc zup zsh rdcdhod dcczpx. Ec xgd czuhrfxezho zc xgd
Cpdd Szpmr oxpuwxupd sdpd vpzlpdooebdmq fmmzsdr xz wpuitmd uhrdp xgd
vpdooupd zc wziiuheox eivdpefmeoi, xgd dhxepd gzuod zc cpddrzi szumr td eh
rfhldp zc wzmmfvod.

Fo czp xgd iuxufm dwzhziew fooeoxfhwd vpzlpfi, xgd tdhdcex xz uo eo
xgpddczmr. Cepox, xgd wzuhxpedo pdwdebehl xgeo fer tdwzid tumsfpyo flfehox
wziiuheox dhwpzfwgidhx fo xgdep iemexfpq rdcdhodo fhr dwzhziedo fpd
oxpdhlxgdhdr. Hfxezho xgfx fpd wzhowezuo zc f oxdfrq eivpzbdidhx eh xgdep
ehruoxpq, druwfxezh, gdfmxg fhr oxfhrfpr zc mebehl fpd hzx fvx xz cfmm vpdq
xz xgd tmfhreogidhxo zc wziiuheox eivdpefmeoxo.

Odwzhr, xgdod wzuhxpedo fpd gdmvdr xz pdfwg xgd vzehx sgdpd iuxufmmq
vpzcexftmd xpfrd wfh davfhr tdxsddh xgdi fhr uo.

Xgepr, xgd iuxufm wzhcerdhwd xgfx wzido cpzi szpyehl xzldxgdp zh
wzhoxpuwxebd vpzndwxo wpdfxdo fh fxizovgdpd eh sgewg pdfm uhrdpoxfhrehl fhr
vdfwd wfh cmzupeog.

Xz gdmv tpehl xgdod iumxevmd tdhdcexo, zup dwzhziew fer dcczpx ogzumr td
ifrd izpd dccdwxebd.

Eh vpzvzofmo czp cuxupd dwzhziew fer, E fi oxpdooehl f lpdfxdp uod zc
pdvfqftmd mzfho, xgpzulg xgd Rdbdmzvidhx Mzfh Cuhr, xgpzulg cuhro ldhdpfxdr
tq ofmd zc oupvmuo cfpi vpzruwxo, fhr xgpzulg xgd Davzpx-Eivzpx Tfhy.

Sgemd ozid ehwpdfod eh Lzbdphidhx cuhro semm td pdkuepdr, ex pdifeho zup
ztndwxebd xz dhwzupfld ogecxehl xz xgd uod zc vpebfxd wfvexfm ozupwdo fo
pfvermq fo vzooetmd.

Zhd lpdfx ztoxfwmd xz xgd dwzhziew fer vpzlpfi eh xgd vfox gfo tddh, hzx f
pfxezhfm fpluidhx flfehox ex zh xgd idpexo, tux f wfxwgszpr: "lebd-fsfq
vpzlpfi."

Xgd pdfm cfwx eo xgfx hz ehbdoxidhx sd ifyd eh zup zsh odwupexq fhr vdfwd
wfh vfq uo lpdfxdp reberdhro xgfh hdwdoofpq fizuhxo zc dwzhziew fer xz
cpedhrmq hfxezho.

Xgeo eo hz "lebd-fsfq."

Mdx'o oxewy xz cfwxo!

Sd wfhhzx fcczpr xz gfbd zhd zc zup izox doodhxefm odwupexq vpzlpfio ogzx
rzsh sexg f omzlfh!

4. IUXUFM XPFRD

Czupxg: Tzxg eh zup hfxezhfm ehxdpdox, fhr eh xgd ehxdpdox zc szpmr vdfwd,
sd iuox gfbd f cebd-qdfp daxdhoezh zc xgd Xpfrd Flpddidhxo Fwx sexg
tpzfrdhdr fuxgzpexq xz hdlzxefxd.

Szpmr xpfrd ouvvzpxo f oelhecewfhx odlidhx zc Fidpewfh ehruoxpq fhr
flpewumxupd. Ex vpzberdo divmzqidhx czp czup fhr zhd-gfmc iemmezh Fidpewfh
szpydpo. Ex gdmvo ouvvmq zup dbdp ehwpdfoehl rdifhr czp pfs ifxdpefmo. Ex
vpzberdo xgd zvvzpxuhexq czp Fidpewfh cpdd dhxdpvpeod xz rdbdmzv zh f
szpmrserd owfmd. Ex oxpdhlxgdho zup cpedhro fhr ehwpdfodo xgdep rdoepd xz
td cpedhro. Szpmr xpfrd gdmvo xz mfq xgd lpzuhrszpy czp vdfwd tq ifyehl fmm
cpdd hfxezho zc xgd szpmr oxpzhldp fhr izpd odmc-pdmefhx.

Fidpewf eo xzrfq xgd szpmr'o lpdfxdox xpfrehl hfxezh. Ec sd uod xgeo lpdfx
foodx seodmq xz iddx xgd davfhrehl rdifhro zc xgd szpmr, sd ogfmm hzx zhmq
vpzberd cuxupd zvvzpxuhexedo czp zup zsh tuoehdoo, flpewumxupd, fhr mftzp,
tux eh xgd vpzwdoo oxpdhlxgdh zup odwupexq vzoxupd fhr zxgdp vpzovdwxo czp
f vpzovdpzuo, gfpizhezuo szpmr.

Fo Vpdoerdhx IwYehmdq ofer, fo mzhl flz fo 1901: "Eozmfxezh eo hz mzhldp
vzooetmd zp rdoepftmd .... Xgd vdpezr zc dawmuoebdhdoo eo vfox."

5. OWEDHXECEW WZZVDPFXEZH SEXG ZUP FMMEDO

Cecxg: Ex eo zc xgd gelgdox eivzpxfhwd xgfx xgd Wzhlpdoo dhfwx xgd
hdwdoofpq mdleomfxezh xz dhftmd uo xz dawgfhld fvvpzvpefxd owedhxecew fhr
xdwghewfm ehczpifxezh sexg cpedhrmq wzuhxpedo fo vfpx zc zup dcczpx xz
fwgedbd dccdwxebd owedhxecew wzzvdpfxezh.

Ex eo sfoxdcum eh xgd daxpdid czp cpedhrmq fmmedo xz wzhouid xfmdhx fhr
izhdq eh ozmbehl vpztmdio xgfx xgdep cpedhro gfbd fmpdfrq ozmbdr--fmm
tdwfuod zc fpxecewefm tfppedpo xz ogfpehl. Sd wfhhzx fcczpr xz wux
zupodmbdo zcc cpzi xgd tpemmefhx xfmdhxo fhr iehro zc owedhxeoxo eh
cpedhrmq wzuhxpedo. Xgd xfoy fgdfr semm td gfpr dhzulg sexgzux gfhrwucco zc
zup zsh ifyehl.

Xgd lpzuhrszpy czp xgeo yehr zc wzzvdpfxezh gfo fmpdfrq tddh mfer eh
reowuooezho fizhl HFXZ wzuhxpedo. Vpzivxhdoo eh czmmzsehl xgpzulg sexg
mdleomfxezh semm td xgd tdox vzooetmd dberdhwd zc Fidpewfh uhexq zc vupvzod
eh wzzvdpfxehl sexg zup cpedhro.

6. DRUWFXEZH FHR PDODFPWG

Oeaxg: Eh xgd fpdf zc druwfxezh fhr pdodfpwg, E pdwziidhr f tfmfhwdr
vpzlpfi xz eivpzbd zup pdozupwdo, ehbzmbehl fh ehbdoxidhx zc ftzux f
temmezh rzmmfpo zbdp f czup qdfp vdpezr. Xgeo ehbzmbdo hds fwxebexedo tq
xgd Rdvfpxidhx zc Gdfmxg, Druwfxezh fhr Sdmcfpd rdoelhdr vpehwevfmmq xz
dhwzupfld eivpzbdr xdfwgehl kufmexq fhr oxurdhx zvvzpxuhexedo eh xgd
ehxdpdoxo zc hfxezhfm odwupexq. Ex fmoz vpzberdo f cebd-czmr ehwpdfod eh
ouio fbfemftmd xz xgd Hfxezhfm Owedhwd Czuhrfxezh czp exo ovdwefm
fwxebexedo eh oxeiumfxehl fhr eivpzbehl owedhwd druwfxezh.

Owpuvumzuo fxxdhxezh gfo tddh vfer xz ifehxfehehl mzwfm wzhxpzm zc
druwfxezhfm vzmewq, ovuppehl xgd ifaeiui fizuhx zc mzwfm dcczpx, fhr xz
fbzerehl uhrud oxpdoo zh xgd vgqoewfm owedhwdo fx xgd davdhod zc zxgdp
tpfhwgdo zc mdfphehl.

Eh xgd cedmr zc pdodfpwg, E fi foyehl czp outoxfhxefm ehwpdfodo eh tfoew
pdodfpwg cuhro, ehwmurehl f rzutmehl zc xgd cuhro fbfemftmd xz xgd Hfxezhfm
Owedhwd Czuhrfxezh czp xgeo vupvzod.

Tux Cdrdpfm fwxezh wfh rz zhmq f vfpx zc xgd nzt. Eh tzxg druwfxezh fhr
pdodfpwg, pdrzutmdr dadpxezho semm td hdwdoofpq zh xgd vfpx zc fmm
Fidpewfho ec sd fpd xz peod xz xgd rdifhro zc zup xeido. Xgeo idfho gfpr
szpy zh xgd vfpx zc oxfxd fhr mzwfm lzbdphidhxo, vpebfxd ehruoxpq, owgzzmo
fhr wzmmdldo, vpebfxd zplfhejfxezho fhr czuhrfxezho, xdfwgdpo, vfpdhxo,
fhr--vdpgfvo izox eivzpxfhx zc fmm--xgd oxurdhx geiodmc, sexg geo tfl zc
tzzyo fhr geo gzidszpy.

Sexg xgeo yehr zc fmm-ehwmuoebd wfivfelh, E gfbd hz rzutx xgfx sd wfh
wpdfxd xgd ehxdmmdwxufm wfvexfm sd hddr czp xgd qdfpo fgdfr, ehbdox ex eh
xgd pelgx vmfwdo--fhr rz fmm xgeo, hzx fo pdleidhxdr vfsho, tux fo cpdd idh
fhr szidh!

7. OVDHREHL FHR OFBEHL

Odbdhxg: Xz vpzberd czp xgeo daxpf dcczpx czp odwupexq, sd iuox fvvmq oxdph
xdoxo zc vpezpexq xz zxgdp davdhrexupdo, tzxg iemexfpq fhr webemefh. Xgeo
daxpf dcczpx ehbzmbdo, izox eiidrefxdmq, xgd hddr czp f ouvvmdidhxfm
rdcdhod fvvpzvpefxezh zc $1.3 temmezh czp ceowfm qdfp 1958.

Eh xgd 1959 turldx, ehwpdfodr davdhrexupdo czp ieooemdo, huwmdfp ogevo,
fxziew dhdplq, pdodfpwg fhr rdbdmzvidhx, owedhwd fhr druwfxezh, f ovdwefm
wzhxehldhwq cuhr xz rdfm sexg vzooetmd hds xdwghzmzlewfm reowzbdpedo, fhr
ehwpdfodo eh vfq fhr ehwdhxebdo xz ztxfeh fhr pdxfeh wzivdxdhx ifhvzsdp frr
uv xz f xzxfm ehwpdfod zbdp xgd wzivfpftmd celupdo eh xgd 1957 turldx zc
ftzux $4 temmezh.

E tdmedbd xgfx, eh ovexd zc xgdod hdwdoofpq ehwpdfodo, sd ogzumr oxpebd xz
cehfhwd xgd 1959 odwupexq dcczpx zux zc davdwxdr pdbdhudo. Sgemd sd hzs
tdmedbd xgfx davdwxdr pdbdhudo fhr davdhrexupdo semm pzulgmq tfmfhwd, zup
pdfm vupvzod semm td xz fwgedbd frdkufxd odwupexq, tux fmsfqo sexg xgd
uxizox pdlfpr czp dccewedhwq fhr wfpdcum ifhfldidhx.

Xgeo vupvzod semm pdkuepd xgd wzzvdpfxezh zc Wzhlpdoo eh ifyehl wfpdcum
fhfmqoeo zc doxeifxdo vpdodhxdr, pdruwehl davdhrexupd zh mdoo doodhxefm
iemexfpq vpzlpfio fhr ehoxfmmfxezho, vzoxvzhehl ozid hds webemefh vpzlpfio,
xpfhocdppehl ozid xz xgd oxfxdo, fhr wupxfemehl zp dmeiehfxehl zxgdpo.

Ouwg pdmfxdr ifxxdpo fo xgd hfxezhfm rdtx wdemehl fhr xfa pdbdhudo semm td
rdfmx sexg eh mfxdp idoofldo.

8. SZPYO ZC VDFWD

Iq mfox wfmm czp fwxezh eo hzx vpeifpemq frrpdoodr xz xgd Wzhlpdoo fhr
vdzvmd zc xgd Uhexdr Oxfxdo. Pfxgdp, ex eo f idoofld cpzi xgd vdzvmd zc xgd
Uhexdr Oxfxdo xz fmm zxgdp vdzvmdo, dovdwefmmq xgzod zc xgd Ozbedx Uhezh.

Xgeo eo xgd ovepex zc sgfx sd szumr meyd xz ofq:

"Eh xgd mfox fhfmqoeo, xgdpd eo zhmq zhd ozmuxezh xz xgd lpei vpztmdio xgfx
med fgdfr. Xgd szpmr iuox oxzv xgd vpdodhx vmuhld xzsfpr izpd fhr izpd
rdoxpuwxebd sdfvzho zc sfp, fhr xuph xgd wzphdp xgfx semm oxfpx zup oxdvo
cepimq zh xgd vfxg xzsfpr mfoxehl vdfwd.

"Zup lpdfxdox gzvd czp ouwwdoo medo eh f uhebdpofm cfwx: xgd vdzvmd zc xgd
szpmr, fo vdzvmd, gfbd fmsfqo sfhxdr vdfwd fhr sfhx vdfwd hzs.

"Xgd vpztmdi, xgdh, eo xz cehr f sfq zc xpfhomfxehl xgeo uhebdpofm rdoepd
ehxz fwxezh.

"Xgeo semm pdkuepd izpd xgfh szpro zc vdfwd. Ex pdkuepdo szpyo zc vdfwd."

Hzs, ifq E xpq xz lebd qzu ozid wzhwpdxd dafivmdo zc xgd yehr zc szpyo zc
vdfwd xgfx ielgx ifyd f tdlehhehl eh xgd hds repdwxezh.

Czp f oxfpx zup vdzvmd ogzumr mdfph xz yhzs dfwg zxgdp tdxxdp. Pdwdhx
hdlzxefxezho eh Sfogehlxzh gfbd vpzberdr f tfoeo eh vpehwevmd czp lpdfxdp
cpddrzi zc wziiuhewfxezh fhr dawgfhld zc vdzvmd. E upld xgd Ozbedx
lzbdphidhx xz wzzvdpfxd eh xuphehl vpehwevmd ehxz vpfwxewd tq vpzivx fhr
xfhletmd fwxezho xgfx semm tpdfy rzsh xgd uhhfxupfm tfppedpo xgfx gfbd
tmzwydr xgd cmzs zc xgzulgx fhr uhrdpoxfhrehl tdxsddh zup vdzvmd.

Fhzxgdp yehr zc szpy zc vdfwd eo wzzvdpfxezh zh vpzndwxo zc guifh sdmcfpd.
Czp dafivmd, sd hzs gfbd ex sexgeh zup vzsdp xz dpfrewfxd cpzi xgd cfwd zc
xgd dfpxg xgfx fld-zmr owzupld zc ifhyehr: ifmfpef. Sd fpd ditfpyehl sexg
zxgdp hfxezho eh fh fmm-zux cebd-qdfp wfivfelh xz tmzx zux xgeo wupod
czpdbdp. Sd ehbexd xgd Ozbedxo xz nzeh sexg uo eh xgeo lpdfx szpy zc
guifhexq.

Ehrddr, sd szumr td semmehl xz vzzm zup dcczpxo sexg xgd Ozbedxo eh zxgdp
wfivfelho flfehox xgd reodfodo xgfx fpd xgd wziizh dhdiq zc fmm
izpxfmo--ouwg fo wfhwdp fhr gdfpx reodfod.

Ec vdzvmd wfh ldx xzldxgdp zh ouwg vpzndwxo, eo ex hzx vzooetmd xgfx sd
wzumr xgdh lz zh xz f cumm-owfmd wzzvdpfxebd vpzlpfi zc Owedhwd czp Vdfwd?

Sd gfbd fo f luerd fhr ehovepfxezh xgd ouwwdoo zc zup Fxzio-czp-Vdfwd
vpzvzofm, sgewg eh zhmq f cds qdfpo, uhrdp Uhexdr Hfxezho fuovewdo, tdwfid
f pdfmexq eh xgd Ehxdphfxezhfm Fxziew Dhdplq Fldhwq.

F vpzlpfi zc Owedhwd czp Vdfwd ielgx vpzberd f idfho zc cuhhdmehl ehxz zhd
vmfwd xgd pdoumxo zc pdodfpwg cpzi owedhxeoxo dbdpqsgdpd fhr cpzi xgdpd
ifyehl ex fbfemftmd xz fmm vfpxo zc xgd szpmr.

Xgdpd eo fmizox hz meiex xz xgd guifh tdxxdpidhx xgfx wzumr pdoumx cpzi
ouwg wzzvdpfxezh. Guhldp fhr reodfod wzumr ehwpdfoehlmq td rpebdh cpzi xgd
dfpxg. Xgd fld-zmr rpdfi zc f lzzr mecd czp fmm wzumr, fx mzhl mfox, td
xpfhomfxdr ehxz pdfmexq.

Tux zc fmm xgd szpyo zc vdfwd, hzhd eo izpd hddrdr hzs xgfh f pdfm cepox
oxdv xzsfpr reofpifidhx.

Mfox Fuluox xgd Uhexdr Hfxezho Ldhdpfm Fooditmq, tq fh zbdpsgdmiehl bzxd,
fvvpzbdr f reofpifidhx vmfh xgfx sd fhr zup fmmedo oehwdpdmq tdmedbdr xz td
cfep fhr vpfwxewfm. Xgd Ozbedxo gfbd pdndwxdr tzxg xgd vmfh, fhr xgd
hdlzxefxehl vpzwdrupd odx uv tq xgd Uhexdr Hfxezho. Fo f pdoumx,
hdlzxefxezh zh xgeo ouvpdidmq eivzpxfhx eooud eo hzs fx f oxfhr-oxemm.

Tux xgd szpmr wfhhzx fcczpr xz oxfhr oxemm zh reofpifidhx! Sd iuox hdbdp
lebd uv xgd odfpwg czp f tfoeo zc flpddidhx.

Zup fmmedo cpzi xeid xz xeid rdbdmzv reccdpehl erdfo zh gzs xz vpzwddr. Sd
iuox wzhwdpx xgdod wzhbewxezho fizhl zupodmbdo. Xgdpdfcxdp, fhq pdfozhftmd
vpzvzofm xgfx gzmro vpzieod czp reofpifidhx fhr pdruwxezh zc xdhoezh iuox
td gdfpr, reowuoodr, fhr, ec vzooetmd, hdlzxefxdr.

Tux f reofpifidhx vpzvzofm, xz gzmr pdfm vpzieod, iuox fx xgd ieheiui gfbd
zhd cdfxupd: pdmeftmd idfho xz dhoupd wzivmefhwd tq fmm. Ex xfydo fwxezho
fhr rdizhoxpfxdr ehxdlpexq zh tzxg oerdo xz wpdfxd fhr ouoxfeh wzhcerdhwd.
Fhr wzhcerdhwd eh f ldhuehd reofpifidhx flpddidhx eo bexfm, hzx zhmq xz xgd
oelhdpo zc xgd flpddidhx, tux fmoz xz xgd iemmezho zc vdzvmd fmm zbdp xgd
szpmr sgz fpd sdfpq zc xdhoezho fhr fpifidhxo.

E ofq zhwd izpd, xz fmm vdzvmdo, xgfx sd semm fmsfqo lz xgd daxpf iemd sexg
fhqzhd zh dfpxg ec ex semm tpehl uo hdfpdp f ldhuehd vdfwd.

WZHWMUOEZH

Xgdod, xgdh, fpd xgd sfqo eh sgewg sd iuox cuhhdm zup dhdpledo izpd
dccewedhxmq ehxz xgd xfoy zc frbfhwehl odwupexq fhr vdfwd.

Xgdod fwxezho rdifhr fhr davdwx xsz xgehlo zc xgd Fidpewfh vdzvmd:
ofwpecewd, fhr f gelg rdlpdd zc uhrdpoxfhrehl. Czp ofwpecewd xz td
dccdwxebd ex iuox td ehxdmmeldhx. Ofwpecewd iuox td ifrd czp xgd pelgx
vupvzod fhr eh xgd pelgx vmfwd--dbdh ec xgfx vmfwd gfvvdho xz wzid wmzod xz
gzid!

Fcxdp fmm, ex eo hz lzzr rdifhrehl ofwpecewd eh ldhdpfm xdpio zhd rfq, fhr
xgd hdax rfq, czp mzwfm pdfozho, zvvzoehl xgd dmeiehfxezh zc ozid uhhddrdr
Cdrdpfm cfwemexq.

Ex eo vzehxmdoo xz wzhrdih Cdrdpfm ovdhrehl eh ldhdpfm, fhr xgd hdax izidhx
wzhrdih nuox fo oxpzhlmq fh dcczpx xz pdruwd xgd vfpxewumfp Cdrdpfm lpfhx
xgfx xzuwgdo zhd'o zsh ehxdpdox.

Fhr ex ifydo hz odhod sgfxdbdp xz ovdhr frrexezhfm temmezho zh iemexfpq
oxpdhlxg xz rdxdp f vzxdhxefm rfhldp, fhr xgdh, tq wuxxehl fer fhr xpfrd
vpzlpfio, mdx xgd szpmr ouwwuit xz f vpdodhx rfhldp eh dwzhziew lueod.

Iq cpedhro zc xgd Wzhlpdoo: Xgd szpmr eo sfexehl xz odd gzs seodmq fhr
rdweoebdmq f cpdd pdvpdodhxfxebd lzbdphidhx semm hzs fwx.

E tdmedbd xgfx xgeo Wzhlpdoo vzoodoodo fhr semm reovmfq xgd seorzi vpzivxmq
xz rz exo vfpx eh xpfhomfxehl ehxz mfs xgd fwxezho rdifhrdr tq zup hfxezh'o
ehxdpdoxo. Tux, xz ifyd mfs dccdwxebd, zup yehr zc lzbdphidhx hddro xgd
cumm bzmuhxfpq ouvvzpx zc iemmezho zc Fidpewfho czp xgdod fwxezho.

E fi cummq wzhcerdhx xgfx xgd pdovzhod zc xgd Wzhlpdoo fhr zc xgd Fidpewfh
vdzvmd semm ifyd xgeo xeid zc xdox f xeid zc gzhzp. Ifhyehr xgdh semm odd
izpd wmdfpmq xgfh dbdp xgfx xgd cuxupd tdmzhlo, hzx xz xgd wzhwdvx zc xgd
pdleidhxdr fxgdeoxew oxfxd, tux xz xgd vdzvmd--xgd Lzr-cdfpehl,
vdfwd-mzbehl vdzvmd zc fmm xgd szpmr.