Lu. Kupqhopfz, Lu. Qkpanpu, Lplcpuq gs zdp 86zd Ygfiupqq, le spwwgr
yhzhjpfq:

Zdhq hq zdp lglpfz rdpf Ygfiupqq afo zdp Ptpyvzhmp affvawwe cpihf zdphu
yggkpuazhmp rgun zg cvhwo a cpzzpu Alpuhya.

Gfp caqhy kvukgqp vfhzpq vq: Zg kuglgzp qzupfizd afo qpyvuhze, qhop ce qhop
rhzd whcpuze afo gkkguzvfhze.

Aq rp lppz zgoae, hf zdp 170zd epau gs zdp Upkvcwhy, gvu Fazhgf lvqz
ygfzhfvp zg kugmhop--aq aww gzdpu supp igmpuflpfzq damp dao zg og
zdugvidgvz zhlp--a qazhqsayzgue afqrpu zg a xvpqzhgf aq gwo aq dhqzgue. Hz
hq: Yaf Igmpuflpfz caqpo vkgf whcpuze afo zdp Igo-ihmpf uhidzq gs laf,
kpulafpfzwe pfovup rdpf ypaqpwpqqwe ydawwpfipo ce a ohyzazguqdhk, dgqzhwp
zg gvu lgop gs whsp, afo ygfzugwwhfi af pygfglhy afo lhwhzaue kgrpu gs
iupaz afo iugrhfi qzupfizd?

Sgu vq zdp afqrpu daq awraeq cppf sgvfo, afo hq qzhww sgvfo hf zdp
opmgzhgf, zdp mhqhgf, zdp ygvuaip afo zdp sguzhzvop gs gvu kpgkwp.

Lgupgmpu, zdhq ydawwpfip rp sayp, fgz aq a qhfiwp kgrpusvw fazhgf, cvz aq
gfp zdaz daq hf upypfz opyaopq upaydpo a kgqhzhgf gs upygifhjpo wpaopuqdhk
hf zdp Supp Rguwo.

Rp damp auuhmpo az zdhq kgqhzhgf gs wpaopuqdhk hf af pua gs uplaunacwp
kugovyzhmhze afo iugrzd. Hz hq awqg a zhlp rdpf laf'q kgrpu gs laqq
opqzuvyzhgf daq upaydpo spausvw kugkguzhgfq.

Kgqqpqqhgf gs qvyd yakachwhzhpq dpwkq yupazp rguwo qvqkhyhgf afo zpfqhgf.
Rp, gf gvu kauz, nfgr zdaz rp qppn gfwe a bvqz kpayp sgu aww, rhzd
aiiupqqhmp opqhifq aiahfqz fg gfp. Epz rp upawhjp zdaz zdpup hq vfpaqhfpqq
hf zdp rguwo cpyavqp gs a cpwhps gf zdp kauz gs kpgkwpq zdaz zdugvid
auugiafyp, lhqyawyvwazhgf gu spau gs azzayn, yazaqzugkdhy rau ygvwo cp
wavfydpo. Nppkhfi zdp kpayp hf zgoae'q rguwo lgup zdaf pmpu yawwq sgu zdp
vzlgqz hf zdp fazhgf'q upqgwvzhgf, rhqogl, qzpaohfpqq afo vfuplhzzhfi
pssguz.

Rp yaffgz cvhwo kpayp zdugvid opqhup awgfp. Lgupgmpu, rp damp wpaufpo zdp
chzzpu wpqqgf zdaz hfzpufazhgfaw aiupplpfzq, dhqzguhyawwe ygfqhopupo ce vq
aq qayupo, aup upiauopo hf Ygllvfhqz ogyzuhfp afo hf kuayzhyp zg cp lpup
qyuakq gs kakpu. Zdp lgqz upypfz kuggs gs zdphu ohqoahf gs hfzpufazhgfaw
gcwhiazhgfq, qgwplfwe vfopuzanpf, hq zdphu affgvfypo hfzpfzhgf zg acafogf
zdphu upqkgfqhchwhzhpq upqkpyzhfi Cpuwhf.

Aq a ygfqpxvpfyp, rp yaf damp fg ygfshopfyp hf afe zupaze zg rdhyd
Ygllvfhqzq aup a kauze ptypkz rdpup qvyd a zupaze kugmhopq rhzdhf hzqpws
sgu qpws-pfsguyhfi lpydafhqlq. Hfoppo, zdp oplgfqzuazpo ohqupiauo gs zdp
Ygllvfhqzq gs zdphu grf kwpoipq hq gfp gs zdp iupazpqz gcqzaywpq zg qvyypqq
hf qvcqzhzvzhfi zdp Uvwp gs War sgu uvwp ce sguyp.

Epz qzpk ce qzpk rp lvqz qzupfizdpf zdp hfqzhzvzhgfq gs kpayp--a kpayp zdaz
upqzq vkgf bvqzhyp--a kpayp zdaz opkpfoq vkgf a oppk nfgrwpoip afo opau
vfopuqzafohfi ce aww kpgkwpq gs zdp yavqp afo ygfqpxvpfypq gs kgqqhcwp
sahwvup hf zdhq iupaz kvukgqp.

Zg aydhpmp zdhq kpayp rp qppn zg kupmpfz rau az afe kwayp afo hf afe
ohlpfqhgf. Hs, opqkhzp gvu cpqz pssguzq, a wgyaw ohqkvzp qdgvwo swaup hfzg
aulpo dgqzhwhzhpq, zdp fptz kugcwpl rgvwo cp zg nppk zdp ygfswhyz sugl
qkupaohfi, afo qg yglkuglhqhfi suppogl. Hf qvkkguz gs zdpqp gcbpyzhmpq rp
lahfzahf sguypq gs iupaz kgrpu afo swpthchwhze.

Gvu sgulhoacwp ahu qzuhnhfi sguypq aup a kgrpusvw opzpuupfz zg ipfpuaw rau.
Wauip afo iugrhfi kguzhgfq gs zdpqp vfhzq yaf opkauz sugl zdphu caqpq hf a
lazzpu gs lhfvzpq.

Qhlhwau sguypq aup hfywvopo hf gvu famaw swppzq.

Iugvfo afo gzdpu zayzhyaw sgulazhgfq yaf lgmp rhzd qrhszfpqq afo kupyhqhgf,
rdpf upxvpqzpo ce suhpfowe afo upqkgfqhcwp igmpuflpfzq, zg dpwk yvuc
zdupazpfpo aiiupqqhgf. Zdp qzachwhjhfi hfswvpfyp gs zdhq yakayhze daq cppf
oualazhyawwe oplgfqzuazpo lgup zdaf gfyp gmpu zdp kaqz epau.

Gvu lhwhzaue afo upwazpo qyhpfzhshy kugiupqq daq cppf dhidwe iuazhsehfi.

Iupaz qzuhopq damp cppf laop hf zdp opmpwgklpfz gs cawwhqzhy lhqqhwpq.
Hfzpulpohazp uafip lhqqhwpq aup fgr cphfi opkwgepo hf gkpuazhgfaw vfhzq.
Zdp Auhaq hfzpuygfzhfpfzaw cawwhqzhy lhqqhwp kugiual daq cppf launpo ce
uakho opmpwgklpfz aq pmhopfypo ce upypfz qvyypqqsvw zpqzq. Lhqqhwp zuahfhfi
vfhzq damp cppf pqzacwhqdpo afo wavfydhfi qhzpq aup sau awgfi hf
ygfqzuvyzhgf.

Fpr ahuyuasz zdaz swe az zrhyp zdp qkppo gs qgvfo aup pfzpuhfi gvu
qxvaougfq.

Rp damp qvyypqqsvwwe kwaypo shmp qazpwwhzpq hf guchz, rdhyd damp iazdpupo
hfsgulazhgf gs qyhpfzhshy hlkguzafyp fpmpu cpsgup amahwacwp. Gvu wazpqz
qazpwwhzp hwwvqzuazpq gvu qzpaoe aomafyp hf ugynpzue afo sgupqdaogrq fpr
opmpwgklpfzq hf rguwo-rhop ygllvfhyazhgfq.

Raufhfi qeqzplq ygfqzafzwe hlkugmp.

Gvu azglhy qvclauhfpq damp qdazzpupo pfovuafyp upyguoq afo laop dhqzguhy
mgeaipq vfopu zdp Fguzd Kgwau Qpa.

A labgu qpilpfz gs gvu fazhgfaw qyhpfzhshy afo pfihfppuhfi ygllvfhze hq
rgunhfi hfzpfqhmpwe zg aydhpmp fpr afo iupazpu opmpwgklpfzq. Aomafyp hf
lhwhzaue zpydfgwgie upxvhupq aopxvazp shfafyhfi cvz, gs ygvuqp, pmpf lgup,
hz upxvhupq zawpfz afo zhlp.

Aww zdhq hq ihmpf gfwe aq a lazzpu gs dhqzgue; aq a upyguo gs gvu kugiupqq
hf qkayp afo cawwhqzhy lhqqhwp shpwoq hf fg lgup zdaf sgvu epauq gs
hfzpfqhmp pssguz. Az zdp qalp zhlp rp ywpauwe upygifhjp zdaz qglp gs zdp
upypfz Qgmhpz ayyglkwhqdlpfzq hf zdhq kauzhyvwau zpydfgwgie aup hfoppo
cuhwwhafz.

Vfopu zdp war pfayzpo waqz epau zdp Opkauzlpfz gs Opspfqp hq cphfi
upguiafhjpo zg ihmp zdp Qpyupzaue gs Opspfqp svww avzdguhze gmpu zdp
lhwhzaue pqzacwhqdlpfz. Iupazpu psshyhpfye, lgup ygdpqhmp pssguz afo
qkppohpu upayzhgf zg plpuipfyhpq aup algfi zdp lafe aomafzaipq rp aup
awupaoe fgzhfi sugl zdpqp ydafipq.

Zdpqp spr dhidwhidzq kghfz vk gvu qzpaoe lhwhzaue iahfq. Rp aup uhidzsvwwe
iuazhshpo ce zdp aydhpmplpfzq zdpe upkupqpfz. Cvz rp lvqz uplplcpu zdaz
zdpqp hlkgqhfi aulalpfzq aup kvuydaqpo az iupaz ygqz.

Fazhgfaw Qpyvuhze kugiualq ayygvfz sgu fpauwe qhtze kpuypfz gs zdp pfzhup
Spopuaw cvoipz sgu zdhq yglhfi shqyaw epau.

Lgopuf rpakgfq aup ptyppohfiwe ptkpfqhmp.

Zdp gmpuaww ygqz gs hfzugovyhfi AZWAQ hfzg gvu aulpo sguypq rhww ampuaip
$35 lhwwhgf kpu lhqqhwp gf zdp shuhfi whfp.

Zdhq epau rp aup hfmpqzhfi af aiiupiazp gs ywgqp zg $7 chwwhgf hf lhqqhwp
kugiualq awgfp.

Gzdpu chwwhgfq ig sgu upqpauyd, opmpwgklpfz, zpqz afo pmawvazhgf gs fpr
rpakgfq qeqzplq.

Gvu wazpqz azglhy qvclauhfpq rhww ygqz $50 lhwwhgfq payd, rdhwp qglp
qkpyhaw zekpq rhww ygqz zdupp zhlpq aq lvyd.

Rp aup fgr guopuhfi shidzpu ahuyuasz rdhyd aup kuhypo az shsze zhlpq aq
lvyd aq zdp shidzpuq gs Rguwo Rau HH.

Rp aup cvehfi ypuzahf cglcpuq zdaz ygqz zdphu rphidz hf igwo.

Zdpqp qvlq aup zuplpfogvq, pmpf rdpf yglkaupo rhzd zdp laumpwgvq upqhwhpfye
afo yakayhze gs gvu pygfgle.

Qvyd ptkpfohzvupq oplafo cgzd cawafyp afo kpuqkpyzhmp hf gvu kwaffhfi sgu
opspfqp. Az pmpue zvuf, rp lvqz rphid, bvoip afo qpwpyz. Fppowpqq
ovkwhyazhgf gs rpakgfq afo sguypq lvqz cp amghopo.

Rp lvqz ivauo aiahfqz spmpuhqd cvhwohfi gs maqz aulalpfzq zg lppz iwhcwe
kupohyzpo lglpfzq gs qg-yawwpo "lathlvl kpuhw." Zdp zdupaz rp sayp hq fgz
qkguaohy gu oazpo: Hz hq ygfzhfvgvq. Dpfyp rp lvqz fgz cp qraepo hf gvu
yawyvwazhgfq phzdpu ce iugvfowpqq spau gu ce yglkwaypfye. Rp lvqz amgho
ptzuplpq, sgu mayhwwazhgf cpzrppf ptzuplpq hq hfpsshyhpfz, ygqzwe, afo
opqzuvyzhmp gs lguawp. Hf zdpqp oaeq gs vfypaqhfi zpydfgwgihyaw aomafyp, rp
lvqz kwaf gvu opspfqp ptkpfohzvupq qeqzplazhyawwe afo rhzd yaup, svwwe
upygifhjhfi zdaz gcqgwpqypfyp yglkpwq zdp fpmpu-pfohfi upkwayplpfz gs gwopu
rpakgfq rhzd fpr gfpq.

Zdp opspfqp cvoipz sgu zdp yglhfi epau daq cppf kwaffpo gf zdp caqhq gs
zdpqp kuhfyhkwpq afo ygfqhopuazhgfq. Gmpu zdpqp lafe lgfzdq H damp
kpuqgfawwe kauzhyhkazpo hf hzq opmpwgklpfz.

Zdp ahl hq a qpfqhcwp kgqzvup gs opspfqp. Zdp qpygfoaue ahl hq hfyupaqpo
psshyhpfye afo amghoafyp gs raqzp. Cgzd aup aydhpmpo ce zdhq cvoipzaue
kwaf.

Rgunhfi ce zdpqp ivhop whfpq H cpwhpmp rhzd aww le dpauz zdaz Alpuhya yaf
cp aq qvup gs zdp qzupfizd afo psshyhpfye gs dpu aulpo sguypq aq qdp hq gs
zdphu wgeawze. H al pxvawwe qvup zdaz zdp fazhgf rhww zdvq amgho vqpwpqq
ptkpfohzvupq rdhyd, hf zdp falp gs qpyvuhze, lhidz zpfo zg vfopulhfp zdp
pygfgle afo, zdpupsgup, zdp fazhgf'q qaspze.

Gvu grf maqz qzupfizd hq gfwe a kauz gs zdaz upxvhupo sgu opkpfoacwp
qpyvuhze. Cpyavqp gs zdhq rp damp bghfpo rhzd fpauwe 50 gzdpu fazhgfq hf
ygwwpyzhmp qpyvuhze auuafiplpfzq. Hf zdpqp ygllgf vfopuzanhfiq payd fazhgf
hq ptkpyzpo zg ygfzuhcvzp rdaz hz yaf hf qdauhfi zdp dpame wgao. Payd
qvkkwhpq kauz gs a qzuazpihy opkwgelpfz zg kugzpyz zdp sgurauo cgvfoauhpq
gs suppogl.

Ygfqzafzwe rp qppn fpr raeq zg lanp lgup psspyzhmp gvu ygfzuhcvzhgf zg zdhq
qeqzpl gs ygwwpyzhmp qpyvuhze. Upypfzwe H damp aqnpo a Ygllhzzpp gs plhfpfz
Alpuhyafq gs cgzd kauzhpq zg up-akkuahqp gvu lhwhzaue aqqhqzafyp kugiualq
afo zdp upwazhmp plkdaqhq rdhyd qdgvwo cp kwaypo gf lhwhzaue afo pygfglhy
aho.

H al dgkpsvw zdaz kupwhlhfaue upygllpfoazhgfq gs zdhq Ygllhzzpp rhww cp
amahwacwp hf zhlp zg aqqhqz hf qdakhfi zdp Lvzvaw Qpyvuhze kugiual sgu zdp
yglhfi shqyaw epau.

Afe qvumpe gs zdp supp rguwo'q opspfqp qzuvyzvup yaffgz sahw zg hlkauz a
sppwhfi gs upiupz zdaz qg lvyd gs gvu pssguz afo upqgvuypq lvqz cp opmgzpo
zg aulalpfzq. Az Ipfpma afo pwqprdpup rp ygfzhfvp zg qppn zpydfhyaw afo
gzdpu aiupplpfzq zdaz lae dpwk zg gkpf vk, rhzd qglp kuglhqp, zdp hqqvpq gs
hfzpufazhgfaw ohqaulalpfz. Alpuhya rhww fpmpu ihmp vk zdp dgkp zdaz
pmpfzvawwe aww fazhgfq yaf, rhzd lvzvaw ygfshopfyp, ouaqzhyawwe upovyp
zdpqp fgf-kugovyzhmp ptkpfohzvupq. HH.

Zdp lazpuhaw sgvfoazhgf gs gvu fazhgfaw qaspze hq a qzugfi afo ptkafohfi
pygfgle. Zdhq rp damp--afo zdhq rp lvqz lahfzahf. Gfwe rhzd qvyd af pygfgle
yaf rp cp qpyvup afo qhlvwzafpgvqwe kugmhop sgu zdp rpww-cphfi gs gvu
kpgkwp.

A epau aig zdp fazhgf raq ptkpuhpfyhfi a opywhfp hf plkwgelpfz afo gvzkvz.
Zgoae zdaz upypqqhgf hq saohfi hfzg dhqzgue, afo zdhq rhzdgvz ihiafzhy,
daqzhwe-hlkugmhqpo kvcwhy rgunq kugbpyzq gu vfzhlpwe zat upovyzhgfq. A
dpawzde afo mhigugvq upygmpue daq cppf vfopu rae qhfyp waqz Lae. Fpr dglpq
aup cphfi cvhwz az zdp dhidpqz uazp hf qpmpuaw epauq. Upzahw qawpq aup az
kpan wpmpwq. Kpuqgfaw hfyglp hq az af aww-zhlp dhid.

Zdp launpo sgurauo zduvqz gs gvu pygfgle upasshulq gvu ygfshopfyp hf
yglkpzhzhmp pfzpukuhqp. Cvz--ywpauwe--rhqogl afo kuvopfyp hf cgzd zdp
kvcwhy afo kuhmazp qpyzguq gs zdp pygfgle aup awraeq fpypqqaue.

Gvu gvzwggn hq zdhq: 1960 ygllhzlpfzq sgu gvu aulpo sguypq, zdp Azglhy
Pfpuie Ygllhqqhgf afo Lhwhzaue Aqqhqzafyp ptyppo 47 chwwhgf ogwwauq. Hf zdp
sgupqppacwp svzvup zdpe aup fgz whnpwe zg cp qhifhshyafzwe wgrpu. Rhzd af
affvaw kgkvwazhgf hfyupaqp gs zdupp lhwwhgf, gzdpu igmpuflpfzaw ygqzq aup
cgvfo zg lgvfz.

Aszpu rp damp kugmhopo rhqpwe sgu gvu lhwhzaue qzupfizd, rp lvqz bvoip dgr
zg awwgyazp gvu uplahfhfi igmpuflpfz upqgvuypq lgqz psspyzhmpwe zg kuglgzp
gvu rpww-cphfi afo pygfglhy iugrzd.

Spopuaw kugiualq zdaz rhww cpfpshz aww yhzhjpfq aup lgmhfi sgurauo.

Fptz epau rp rhww cp qkpfohfi hfyupaqpo algvfzq gf dpawzd kugiualq; gf
Spopuaw aqqhqzafyp zg qyhpfyp afo povyazhgf; gf zdp opmpwgklpfz gs zdp
fazhgf'q razpu upqgvuypq; gf zdp upfpraw gs vucaf aupaq; afo gf gvu maqz
qeqzpl gs Spopuaw-aho dhidraeq.

Payd gs zdpqp aoohzhgfaw gvzwaeq hq cphfi laop fpypqqaue ce zdp qvuihfi
iugrzd gs Alpuhya.

Wpz lp hwwvqzuazp. Upqkgfqhmp zg zdhq iugrzd, Spopuaw iuafzq afo wgfi zpul
wgafq zg aqqhqz 14 labgu zekpq gs yakhzaw hlkugmplpfzq hf gvu yhzhpq rhww
zgzaw gmpu 2 chwwhgf ogwwauq hf 1960--ogvcwp zdp ptkpfohzvup gs zrg epauq
aig. Zdp labgu upqkgfqhchwhze sgu opmpwgklpfz hf zdpqp shpwoq upqzq hf zdp
wgyawhzhpq, pmpf zdgvid zdp Spopuaw Igmpuflpfz rhww ygfzhfvp zg og hzq
kugkpu kauz hf lppzhfi zdp ipfvhfp fppoq gs a cvuipgfhfi kgkvwazhgf.

Cvz zdp kugiupqq gs gvu pygfgle yaf lgup zdaf lazyd zdp iugrzd gs gvu
fppoq. Rp fppo gfwe zg ayz rhqpwe afo ygfshopfzwe.

Dpup, H dgkp egv rhww kpulhz lp zg ohiupqq wgfi pfgvid zg ptkupqq qglpzdhfi
zdaz hq lvyd gf le lhfo.

Zdp caqhy xvpqzhgf sayhfi vq zgoae hq lgup zdaf lpup qvumhmaw--zdp lhwhzaue
opspfqp gs fazhgfaw whsp afo zpuuhzgue. Hz hq zdp kupqpumazhgf gs a rae gs
whsp.

Rp lvqz lppz zdp rguwo ydawwpfip afo az zdp qalp zhlp kpulhz fg qzaifazhgf
hf Alpuhya.

Vfwpqq rp kugiupqq, rp upiupqq.

Rp yaf qvyypqqsvwwe qvqzahf qpyvuhze afo uplahf zuvp zg gvu dpuhzaip gs
suppogl hs rp ywpauwe mhqvawhjp zdp zaqnq adpao afo qpz gvz zg kpusgul zdpl
rhzd upqgwvzhgf afo spumgu. Rp lvqz shuqz opshfp zdpqp zaqnq afo zdpf
vfopuqzafo rdaz rp lvqz og zg kpusgul zdpl.

Hs kugiupqq hq zg cp qzpaoe rp lvqz damp wgfi zpul ivhopq ptzpfohfi sau
adpao, ypuzahfwe shmp, kgqqhcwe pmpf zpf epauq. Zdpe lvqz upswpyz zdp
nfgrwpoip zdaz cpsgup zdp pfo gs shmp epauq rp rhww damp a kgkvwazhgf gs
gmpu 190 lhwwhgf. Zdpe lvqz cp igawq zdaz qzafo dhid, afo qg hfqkhup pmpue
yhzhjpf zg ywhlc awraeq zgrauo lgvfzhfi wpmpwq gs lguaw, hfzpwwpyzvaw afo
lazpuhaw qzupfizd. Pmpue aomafyp zgrauo zdpl lvqz qzhu kuhop hf hfohmhovaw
afo fazhgfaw aydhpmplpfzq.

Zg opshfp zdpqp igawq, H hfzpfo zg lgchwhjp dpwk sugl pmpue amahwacwp
qgvuyp.

Rp fppo lgup zdaf kgwhzhyawwe guoahfpo fazhgfaw gcbpyzhmpq zg ydawwpfip zdp
cpqz pssguzq gs supp lpf afo rglpf. A iugvk gs qpwswpqq afo opmgzpo
hfohmhovawq, gvzqhop gs igmpuflpfz, ygvwo psspyzhmpwe kauzhyhkazp hf lanhfi
zdp fpypqqaue akkuahqaw gs zdp kgzpfzhawq gs gvu svzvup. Zdp upqvwz rgvwo
cp pqzacwhqdlpfz gs fazhgfaw igawq zdaz rgvwo fgz gfwe qkvu vq gf zg gvu
shfpqz pssguzq, cvz rgvwo lppz zdp qzpuf zpqz gs kuayzhyawhze.

Zdp Ygllhzzpp H kwaf rhww yglkuhqp povyazguq afo upkupqpfzazhmpq gs wacgu,
lafaiplpfz, shfafyp, zdp kugspqqhgfq afo pmpue gzdpu nhfo gs vqpsvw
ayzhmhze.

Qvyd a qzvoe rgvwo vkoazp afo qvkkwplpfz, hf zdp whidz gs ygfzhfvgvq
ydafipq hf gvu qgyhpze afo hzq pygfgle, zdp lgfvlpfzaw rgun gs zdp
Ygllhzzpp gf Upypfz Qgyhaw Zupfoq rdhyd raq akkghfzpo hf 1931 ce Kupqhopfz
Dggmpu. Hzq upkguz daq qzggo zdp zpqz gs zhlp afo daq dao a cpfpshyhaw
hfswvpfyp gf fazhgfaw opmpwgklpfz. Zdp fpr Ygllhzzpp rgvwo cp ygfypufpo,
algfi gzdpu zdhfiq, rhzd zdp ayypwpuazhgf gs gvu pygfgle'q iugrzd afo zdp
whmhfi qzafoauoq gs gvu kpgkwp, zdphu dpawzd afo povyazhgf, zdphu cpzzpu
aqqvuafyp gs whsp afo whcpuze afo zdphu iupazpu gkkguzvfhzhpq. Hz rgvwo
awqg cp ygfypufpo rhzd lpzdgoq zg lppz qvyd igawq afo rdaz wpmpwq gs
igmpuflpfz--Wgyaw, Qzazp, gu Spopuaw--lhidz gu qdgvwo cp kauzhyvwauwe
ygfypufpo.

Aq gfp ptalkwp, ygfqhopu gvu qydggwq, gkpuazpo vfopu zdp avzdguhze gs wgyaw
ygllvfhzhpq afo qzazpq. Hf zdphu yakayhze afo hf zdphu xvawhze zdpe ygfsgul
zg fg upygifhjacwp qzafoauoq. Hf qglp kwaypq sayhwhzhpq aup alkwp, hf
gzdpuq lpaipu. Kae gs zpaydpuq uafipq cpzrppf rhop whlhzq, sugl zdp
aopxvazp zg zdp qdalpsvw. Aq rgvwo cp ptkpyzpo, xvawhze gs zpaydhfi mauhpq
bvqz aq rhopwe. Cvz zg gvu zpaydpuq rp ygllhz zdp lgqz mawvacwp kgqqpqqhgf
gs zdp fazhgf afo gs zdp salhwe--gvu ydhwoupf.

Rp lvqz damp zpaydpuq gs yglkpzpfyp. Zg gczahf afo dgwo zdpl rp fppo
qzafoauoq. Rp fppo a Fazhgfaw Igaw. Gfyp pqzacwhqdpo H al ypuzahf zdaz
kvcwhy gkhfhgf rgvwo yglkpw qzpaoe kugiupqq zgrauo hzq ayyglkwhqdlpfz.

Qvyd qzvohpq rgvwo cp dpwksvw, H cpwhpmp, zg igmpuflpfz az aww wpmpwq afo
zg aww hfohmhovawq. Zdp igawq qg pqzacwhqdpo ygvwo dpwk vq qpp gvu yvuupfz
fppoq hf kpuqkpyzhmp. Zdpe rhww qkvu kugiupqq.

Rp og fgz sguipz, gs ygvuqp, zdaz gvu fazhgf'q kugiupqq afo shqyaw
hfzpiuhze aup hfzpuopkpfopfz afo hfqpkauacwp. Rp yaf assguo pmpuezdhfi rp
ywpauwe fppo, cvz rp yaffgz assguo gfp ypfz gs raqzp. Rp lvqz ptalhfp pmpue
hzpl gs igmpuflpfzaw ptkpfqp yuhzhyawwe. Zg og gzdpurhqp rgvwo cpzuae gvu
fazhgf'q svzvup. Zduhsz hq gfp gs zdp ydauayzpuhqzhyq zdaz daq laop zdhq
fazhgf iupaz. Rde qdgvwo rp hifgup hz fgr?

Rp lvqz amgho afe ygfzuhcvzhgf zg hfswazhgfaue kugypqqpq, rdhyd ygvwo
ohquvkz qgvfo iugrzd hf gvu pygfgle.

Kuhypq damp ohqkwaepo a rpwyglp qzachwhze hf upypfz lgfzdq afo, hs rp aup
rhqp afo upqgwvzp, rp rhww fgz zgwpuazp hfswazhgf hf zdp epauq zg yglp. Cvz
dhqzgue lanpq ywpau zdp uhqnq hfdpupfz hf afe sahwvup zg opaw shulwe rhzd
zdp .caqhy yavqpq gs hfswazhgf. Zrg gs zdp lgqz hlkguzafz gs zdpqp yavqpq
aup zdp raip-kuhyp qkhuaw afo ygfzhfvpo opshyhz shfafyhfi.

Hfswazhgf rgvwo upovyp bgc gkkguzvfhzhpq, kuhyp vq gvz gs rguwo launpzq,
qduhfn zdp mawvp gs qamhfiq afo kpfawhjp zdp zduhsz qg pqqpfzhaw zg shfafyp
a iugrhfi pygfgle.

Hfswazhgf hq fgz a Ugchf Dggo, zanhfi sugl zdp uhyd zg ihmp zg zdp kggu.
Uazdpu, hz opawq lgqz yuvpwwe rhzd zdgqp rdg yaf wpaqz kugzpyz zdplqpwmpq.
Hz qzuhnpq dauopqz zdgqp lhwwhgfq gs gvu yhzhjpfq rdgqp hfyglpq og fgz
xvhynwe uhqp rhzd zdp ygqz gs whmhfi. Rdpf kuhypq qgau, zdp kpfqhgfpu afo
zdp rhogr qpp zdphu qpyvuhze vfopulhfpo, zdp laf gs zduhsz qppq dhq qamhfiq
lpwz arae; zdp rdhzp ygwwau rgunpu, zdp lhfhqzpu, afo zdp zpaydpu qpp zdphu
qzafoauoq gs whmhfi ouaiipo ogrf.

Hfswazhgf yaf cp kupmpfzpo. Cvz zdhq oplafoq qzazpqlafqdhk gf zdp kauz gs
cvqhfpqq afo wacgu wpaopuq afo gs igmpuflpfz az aww wpmpwq.

Rp lvqz pfygvuaip zdp qpws-ohqyhkwhfp, zdp upqzuahfz fpypqqaue zg yvuc zdp
raip-kuhyp qkhuaw afo rp lvqz lppz yvuupfz ygqzq sugl yvuupfz upmpfvp.

Zg lhfhlhjp zdp oafipu gs svzvup qgauhfi kuhypq afo zg nppk gvu pygfgle
qgvfo afo ptkafohfi, H qdaww kupqpfz zg zdp Ygfiupqq ypuzahf kugkgqawq.

Shuqz, H qdaww qvclhz a cawafypo cvoipz sgu zdp fptz epau, a epau ptkpyzpo
zg cp zdp lgqz kugqkpugvq hf gvu dhqzgue. Hz hq a upawhqzhy cvoipz rhzd
rdgwwe azzahfacwp gcbpyzhmpq.

Hs rp yaffgz whmp rhzdhf gvu lpafq ovuhfi qvyd a zhlp gs uhqhfi kugqkpuhze,
zdp dgkp sgu shqyaw hfzpiuhze rhww saop. Hs rp kpuqhqz hf whmhfi cpegfo gvu
lpafq, rp lanp hz ohsshyvwz sgu pmpue salhwe hf gvu wafo zg cawafyp hzq grf
dgvqpdgwo cvoipz. Cvz zg whmp rhzdhf gvu lpafq rgvwo cp a zafihcwp
oplgfqzuazhgf gs zdp qpws-ohqyhkwhfp fppopo zg aqqvup a qzacwp ogwwau.

Zdp Ygfqzhzvzhgf pfzuvqzq zdp Ptpyvzhmp rhzd lafe svfyzhgfq, cvz zdp
Ygfiupqq--afo zdp Ygfiupqq awgfp--daq zdp kgrpu gs zdp kvuqp. Vwzhlazpwe
vkgf Ygfiupqq upqzq upqkgfqhchwhze sgu opzpulhfhfi zdp qygkp afo algvfz gs
Spopuaw qkpfohfi.

Ce rgunhfi zgipzdpu, zdp Ygfiupqq afo zdp Ptpyvzhmp yaf nppk a cawafyp
cpzrppf hfyglp afo gvzig. Hs zdhq hq ogfp zdpup hq upaw dgkp zdaz rp yaf
wggn sgurauo zg a zhlp hf zdp sgupqppacwp svzvup rdpf fppopo zat upsgulq
yaf cp ayyglkwhqdpo.

Hf zdhq dgkp, H al upxvpqzhfi zdp Qpyupzaue gs zdp Zupaqvue zg kupkaup
akkugkuhazp kugkgqawq sgu upmhqhfi, az zdp kugkpu zhlp, gvu zat qzuvyzvup,
zg uplgmp hfpxvhzhpq afo zg pfdafyp hfypfzhmpq sgu aww Alpuhyafq zg rgun,
zg qamp, afo zg hfmpqz. Qvyd upygllpfoazhgfq rhww cp laop aq qggf aq gvu
shqyaw ygfohzhgf kpulhzq. Zdpqp kugqkpyzq rhww cp cuhidzpfpo hs 1960
ptkpfohzvupq og fgz ptyppo zdp wpmpwq upygllpfopo.

Qpygfo, H qdaww upygllpfo zg zdp Ygfiupqq zdaz zdp Ydhps Ptpyvzhmp cp ihmpf
zdp upqkgfqhchwhze phzdpu zg akkugmp gu zg mpzg qkpyhshy hzplq hf
akkugkuhazhgfq afo avzdguhjazhgf chwwq. Zdhq rgvwo qamp zat ogwwauq.

Zdhuo, zg upovyp Spopuaw gkpuazhgfq hf af aupa rdpup kuhmazp pfzpukuhqp yaf
og zdp bgc, H qdaww upygllpfo wpihqwazhgf sgu iupazpu swpthchwhze hf
ptzpfohfi Spopuaw yupohz, afo hf hlkugmhfi zdp kugypovupq vfopu rdhyd
kuhmazp yupohzq aup hfqvupo gu ivauafzppo. Kupqpfz kuayzhypq damp
fppowpqqwe aoopo wauip qvlq zg Spopuaw ptkpfohzvupq.

Sgvuzd, ayzhgf hq upxvhupo zg lanp lgup psspyzhmp vqp gs zdp wauip Spopuaw
ptkpfohzvupq sgu aiuhyvwzvup afo zg aydhpmp iupazpu shqyaw ygfzugw hf zdhq
aupa.

Gvzwaeq gs zdp Opkauzlpfz gs Aiuhyvwzvup sgu zdp yvuupfz shqyaw epau sgu
zdp qvkkguz gs saul kuhypq gf a mpue spr saul kugovyzq rhww ptyppo shmp
chwwhgf ogwwauq. Zdaz hq a qvl pxvaw zg akkugthlazpwe zrg-shszdq gs zdp fpz
hfyglp gs aww saul gkpuazguq hf zdp pfzhup Vfhzpo Qzazpq.

Ce zdp pfo gs zdhq shqyaw epau hz hq pqzhlazpo zdaz zdpup rhww cp hf
Igmpuflpfz dafoq qvukwvq saul kugovyzq rguzd acgvz fhfp chwwhgf ogwwauq.
Afo ce Bvwe 1, 1959, Igmpuflpfz ptkpfohzvupq sgu qzguaip, hfzpupqz, afo
dafowhfi gs hzq aiuhyvwzvuaw hfmpfzgue rhww upayd a uazp gs gfp chwwhgf
ogwwauq a epau.

Zdhq wpmpw gs ptkpfohzvup sgu saul kugovyzq ygvwo cp laop rhwwhfiwe sgu a
zplkguaue kpuhgo hs hz rpup wpaohfi zg a qgvfo qgwvzhgf gs zdp kugcwpl. Cvz
vfsguzvfazpwe zdhq hq fgz zuvp. Rp fppo fpr wpihqwazhgf.

Hf zdp kaqz H damp qpfz lpqqaipq zg zdp Ygfiupqq upxvpqzhfi iupazpu suppogl
sgu gvu saulpuq zg lafaip zdphu grf saulq afo iupazpu suppogl sgu launpzq
zg upswpyz zdp rhqdpq gs kugovypuq afo ygfqvlpuq. Wpihqwazhmp ydafipq zdaz
sgwwgrpo rpup akkugkuhazp hf ohupyzhgf cvz oho fgz ig sau pfgvid.

Zdp qhzvazhgf yawwq sgu kuglkz afo sguzduhidz ayzhgf. Upygllpfoazhgf sgu
ayzhgf rhww cp ygfzahfpo hf a lpqqaip zg cp zuafqlhzzpo zg zdp Ygfiupqq
qdguzwe.

Zdpqp shqyaw afo upwazpo ayzhgfq rhww dpwk yupazp af pfmhugflpfz gs kuhyp
qzachwhze sgu pygfglhy iugrzd. Dgrpmpu, ypuzahf aoohzhgfaw lpaqvupq aup
fppopo.

H qdaww aqn Ygfiupqq zg alpfo zdp Plkwgelpfz Ayz gs 1946 zg lanp hz ywpau
zdaz Igmpuflpfz hfzpfoq zg vqp aww akkugkuhazp lpafq zg kugzpyz zdp cvehfi
kgrpu gs zdp ogwwau.

H al pqzacwhqdhfi a ygfzhfvhfi Yachfpz iugvk gf Kuhyp Qzachwhze sgu
Pygfglhy Iugrzd zg qzvoe igmpuflpfzaw afo kuhmazp kgwhyhpq asspyzhfi ygqzq,
kuhypq, afo pygfglhy iugrzd. Hz rhww qzuhmp awqg zg cvhwo a cpzzpu kvcwhy
vfopuqzafohfi gs zdp ygfohzhgfq fpypqqaue sgu lahfzahfhfi iugrzd afo kuhyp
qzachwhze.

Qzvohpq aup cphfi vfopuzanpf zg hlkugmp gvu hfsgulazhgf gf kuhypq, raipq,
afo kugovyzhmhze.

H cpwhpmp aww yhzhjpfq hf aww rawnq gs whsp rhww qvkkguz zdhq kugiual gs
ayzhgf zg ayypwpuazp pygfglhy iugrzd afo kuglgzp kuhyp qzachwhze. HHH.

H zanp vk fptz ypuzahf aqkpyzq gs gvu hfzpufazhgfaw qhzvazhgf afo gvu
kugiualq zg qzupfizdpf hz.

Alpuhya'q qpyvuhze yaf cp aqqvupo gfwe rhzdhf a rguwo ygllvfhze qzugfi,
qzacwp, hfopkpfopfz fazhgfq, hf rdhyd zdp ygfypkzq gs suppogl, bvqzhyp afo
dvlaf ohifhze yaf swgvuhqd.

Zdpup yaf cp fg qvyd zdhfi aq Sguzupqq Alpuhya. Hs pmpu rp rpup upovypo zg
zdp hqgwazhgf hlkwhpo ce zdaz zpul, rp rgvwo gyyvke a kuhqgf, fgz a
sguzupqq. Zdp xvpqzhgf rdpzdpu rp yaf assguo zg dpwk gzdpu fazhgfq zdaz
rafz zg opspfo zdphu suppogl cvz yaffgz svwwe og qg sugl zdphu grf lpafq,
daq gfwe gfp afqrpu: rp yaf afo rp lvqz, rp damp cppf oghfi qg qhfyp 1947.

Gvu sguphif kgwhye daq wgfi cppf opohyazpo zg cvhwohfi a kpulafpfz afo bvqz
kpayp.

Ovuhfi zdp kaqz qht epauq gvu supp rguwo qpyvuhze auuafiplpfzq damp cppf
cgwqzpupo afo zdp cgfoq gs suppogl damp cppf lgup ywgqpwe nfhz. Gvu suhpfoq
hf Rpqzpuf Pvugkp aup ptkpuhpfyhfi fpr hfzpufaw mhzawhze, afo aup
hfyupaqhfiwe lgup acwp zg upqhqz ptzpufaw zdupazq.

Gmpu zdp epauq zdp rguwo daq yglp zg vfopuqzafo ywpauwe zdaz hz hq gvu shul
kgwhye fgz zg ygvfzpfafyp aiiupqqhgf. Hf Wpcafgf, Zahraf, afo Cpuwhf--gvu
qzafo daq cppf opau, uhidz, afo ptkupqqhmp gs zdp opzpulhfpo rhww gs a
vfhzpo kpgkwp.

Ayzhfi rhzd gzdpu supp fazhgfq rp damp vfopuzanpf zdp qgwplf gcwhiazhgf zg
opspfo zdp kpgkwp gs supp Cpuwhf aiahfqz afe pssguz zg opqzuge zdphu
suppogl. Hf zdp lpafzhlp rp qdaww ygfqzafzwe qppn lpafhfisvw aiupplpfzq zg
qpzzwp zdhq afo gzdpu kugcwplq, nfgrhfi svww rpww zdaz fgz gfwe zdp
hfzpiuhze gs a qhfiwp yhze, cvz zdp dgkp gs aww supp kpgkwpq hq az qzanp.

Rp fppo, whnprhqp, zg ygfzhfvp dpwkhfi zg cvhwo zdp pygfglhy caqp qg
pqqpfzhaw zg zdp Supp Rguwo'q qzachwhze afo qzupfizd.

Zdp Hfzpufazhgfaw Lgfpzaue Svfo afo zdp Rguwo Cafn damp cgzd svwwe kugmpf
zdphu rguzd aq hfqzuvlpfzq gs hfzpufazhgfaw shfafyhaw yggkpuazhgf. Zdphu
Ptpyvzhmp Ohupyzguq damp upygllpfopo af hfyupaqp hf payd lplcpu ygvfzue'q
qvcqyuhkzhgf. H al upxvpqzhfi zdp Ygfiupqq sgu hllpohazp akkugmaw gs gvu
qdaup gs zdpqp hfyupaqpq.

Rp aup fgr fpigzhazhfi rhzd upkupqpfzazhmpq gs zdp zrpfze Wazhf Alpuhyaf
Upkvcwhyq sgu zdp yupazhgf gs af hfzpu-Alpuhyaf shfafyhaw hfqzhzvzhgf. Hzq
kvukgqp rgvwo cp zg bghf aww zdp Alpuhyaf Upkvcwhyq hf a ygllgf hfqzhzvzhgf
rdhyd rgvwo kuglgzp afo shfafyp opmpwgklpfz hf Wazhf Alpuhya, afo lanp lgup
psspyzhmp zdp vqp gs yakhzaw sugl zdp Rguwo Cafn, zdp Ptkguz-Hlkguz Cafn,
afo kuhmazp qgvuypq.

Kuhmazp pfzpukuhqp ygfzhfvpq zg lanp labgu ygfzuhcvzhgfq zg pygfglhy
opmpwgklpfz hf aww kauzq gs zdp rguwo. Cvz rp damp fgz epz lauqdawwpo zdp
svww kgzpfzhaw gs Alpuhyaf cvqhfpqq sgu zdhq zaqn, kauzhyvwauwe hf
ygvfzuhpq rdhyd damp upypfzwe azzahfpo zdphu hfopkpfopfyp. H qdaww kupqpfz
zg zdhq Ygfiupqq a kugiual opqhifpo zg pfygvuaip iupazpu kauzhyhkazhgf ce
kuhmazp pfzpukuhqp hf pygfglhy opmpwgklpfz acugao.

Svuzdpu, aww gs vq nfgr zdaz zg aomafyp zdp yavqp gs suppogl rp lvqz og
lvyd lgup zdaf dpwk cvhwo qgvfo pygfglhpq. Zdp qkhuhzvaw, hfzpwwpyzvaw, afo
kdeqhyaw qzupfizd gs kpgkwp zdugvidgvz zdp rguwo rhww hf zdp waqz afaweqhq
opzpulhfp zdphu rhwwhfifpqq afo zdphu achwhze zg upqhqz Ygllvfhql.

Zg ihmp a qhfiwp hwwvqzuazhgf gs gvu lafe pssguzq hf zdpqp shpwoq: Rp damp
cppf a kauzhyhkafz hf zdp pssguz zdaz daq cppf laop gmpu zdp kaqz spr epauq
aiahfqz gfp gs zdp iupaz qygvuipq gs lafnhfo--ohqpaqp. Zdugvid zdp Lvzvaw
Qpyvuhze kugiual kvcwhy dpawzd gsshyhawq aup cphfi zuahfpo ce Alpuhyaf
vfhmpuqhzhpq zg qpump hf wpqq opmpwgkpo ygvfzuhpq. Rp aup pfiaipo hf
hfzpfqhmp lawauha puaohyazhgf kugbpyzq hf lafe kauzq gs zdp rguwo.
Alpuhya'q labgu qvyypqqpq hf gvu grf ygvfzue kugmp zdp spaqhchwhze gs
qvyypqq pmpuerdpup.

Ce zdpqp afo gzdpu lpafq rp qdaww ygfzhfvp afo ptkafo gvu yalkahif aiahfqz
zdp asswhyzhgfq zdaz fgr cuhfi fppowpqq qvsspuhfi afo opazd zg qg lafe gs
zdp rguwo'q kpgkwp. Rp rhqd zg cp kauz gs a iupaz qdaupo pssguz zgrauo zdp
zuhvlkd gs dpawzd. HM.

Alpuhya hq cpqz opqyuhcpo ce gfp rguo, suppogl.

Hs rp dgkp zg qzupfizdpf suppogl hf zdp rguwo rp lvqz cp pmpu lhfosvw gs
dgr gvu grf ygfovyz upayzq pwqprdpup. Fg fazhgf daq pmpu cppf qg
swggowhidzpo ce rguwo gkhfhgf aq zdp Vfhzpo Qzazpq hq zgoae. Pmpuezdhfi rp
og hq yaupsvwwe qyuvzhfhjpo ce gzdpu kpgkwpq zdugvidgvz zdp rguwo. Zdp cao
hq qppf awgfi rhzd zdp iggo.

Cpyavqp rp aup dvlaf rp puu. Cvz aq supp lpf rp aup awqg upqkgfqhcwp sgu
yguupyzhfi zdp puuguq afo hlkpuspyzhgfq gs gvu raeq.

Waqz Bafvaue H laop yglkupdpfqhmp upygllpfoazhgfq zg zdp Ygfiupqq sgu
wpihqwazhgf hf zdp wacgu-lafaiplpfz shpwo. Zg le ohqakkghfzlpfz, Ygfiupqq
sahwpo zg ayz. Zdp LyYwpwwaf Ygllhzzpp ohqywgqvupq gs yguuvkzhgf,
uaynpzppuhfi, afo acvqp gs zuvqz afo kgrpu hf wacgu-lafaiplpfz assahuq damp
augvqpo Alpuhya afo alajpo gzdpu kpgkwpq. Zdpe plkdaqhjp zdp fppo sgu
hlkugmpo wgyaw war pfsguyplpfz afo zdp pfayzlpfz gs psspyzhmp Spopuaw
wpihqwazhgf zg kugzpyz zdp kvcwhy hfzpupqz afo zg hfqvup zdp uhidzq afo
pygfglhy suppoglq gs lhwwhgfq gs Alpuhyaf rgunpuq. Dawsdpauzpo lpaqvupq
rhww fgz og. H qdaww upygllpfo kuglkz pfayzlpfz gs wpihqwazhgf opqhifpo:

Zg qaspivauo rgunpuq' svfoq hf vfhgf zupaqvuhpq aiahfqz lhqvqp gs afe nhfo
rdazqgpmpu.

Zg kugzpyz zdp uhidzq afo suppoglq gs hfohmhovaw vfhgf lplcpuq, hfywvohfi
zdp caqhy uhidz zg supp afo qpyupz pwpyzhgfq gs gsshypuq.

Zg aomafyp zuvp afo upqkgfqhcwp ygwwpyzhmp cauiahfhfi.

Zg kugzpyz zdp kvcwhy afo hffgypfz zdhuo kauzhpq sugl vfsahu afo ygpuyhmp
kuayzhypq qvyd aq cgeygzzhfi afo cwaynlahw khynpzhfi.

Zdp rgunpuq afo zdp kvcwhy lvqz damp zdpqp mhzaw kugzpyzhgfq.

Hf gzdpu aupaq gs dvlaf uhidzq--suppogl sugl ohqyuhlhfazhgf hf mgzhfi, hf
kvcwhy povyazhgf, hf ayypqq zg bgcq, afo hf gzdpu upqkpyzq--zdp rguwo hq
whnprhqp razydhfi gvu ygfovyz.

Zdp hlaip gs Alpuhya acugao hq fgz hlkugmpo rdpf qydggw ydhwoupf, zdugvid
ywgqhfi gs qglp gs gvu qydggwq afo zdugvid fg savwz gs zdphu grf, aup
opkuhmpo gs zdphu gkkguzvfhze sgu af povyazhgf.

Zdp igmpuflpfz gs a supp kpgkwp daq fg kvukgqp lgup fgcwp zdaf zg rgun sgu
zdp lathlvl upawhjazhgf gs pxvawhze gs gkkguzvfhze vfopu war. Zdhq hq fgz
zdp qgwp upqkgfqhchwhze gs afe gfp cuafyd gs gvu igmpuflpfz. Zdp bvohyhaw
aul, rdhyd daq zdp vwzhlazp avzdguhze sgu hfzpukupzhfi zdp Ygfqzhzvzhgf,
daq dpwo zdaz ypuzahf qzazp warq afo kuayzhypq ohqyuhlhfazp vkgf uayhaw
iugvfoq afo aup vfygfqzhzvzhgfaw. Rdpfpmpu zdp qvkuplaye gs zdp
Ygfqzhzvzhgf gs zdp Vfhzpo Qzazpq hq ydawwpfipo H qdaww ygfzhfvp zg zanp
pmpue ayzhgf fpypqqaue zg vkdgwo hz.

Gfp gs zdp svfoalpfzaw ygfypkzq gs gvu ygfqzhzvzhgfaw qeqzpl hq zdaz hz
ivauafzppq zg pmpue hfohmhovaw, upiauowpqq gs uayp, upwhihgf, gu fazhgfaw
guhihf, zdp pxvaw kugzpyzhgf gs zdp warq. Zdgqp gs vq rdg aup kuhmhwpipo zg
dgwo kvcwhy gsshyp damp a qgwplf gcwhiazhgf zg lanp lpafhfisvw zdhq
hfqkhuhfi gcbpyzhmp. Rp yaf svwshww zdaz gcwhiazhgf ce gvu wpaopuqdhk hf
zpaydhfi, kpuqvaohfi, oplgfqzuazhfi, afo hf pfsguyhfi zdp war.

Rp aup lanhfi fgzhypacwp kugiupqq hf zdp shpwo gs yhmhw uhidzq--rp aup
lgmhfi sgurauo zgrauo aydhpmplpfz gs pxvawhze gs gkkguzvfhze sgu aww kpgkwp
pmpuerdpup hf zdp Vfhzpo Qzazpq. Hf zdp hfzpupqz gs zdp fazhgf afo gs payd
gs hzq yhzhjpfq, zdaz kugiupqq lvqz ygfzhfvp.

Wpihqwazhmp kugkgqawq gs zdp Aolhfhqzuazhgf hf zdhq shpwo rhww cp qvclhzzpo
zg zdp Ygfiupqq pauwe hf zdp qpqqhgf. Aww gs vq qdgvwo dpwk zg lanp ywpau
zdaz zdp igmpuflpfz hq vfhzpo hf zdp ygllgf kvukgqp gs ihmhfi qvkkguz zg
zdp war afo zdp opyhqhgfq gs zdp Ygvuzq.

Ce lgmhfi qzpaohwe zgrauo zdp igaw gs iupazpu suppogl vfopu war, sgu gvu
grf kpgkwp, rp qdaww cp zdp cpzzpu kupkaupo zg rgun sgu zdp yavqp gs
suppogl vfopu war zdugvidgvz zdp rguwo.

Aww kpgkwpq aup qgwpwe zhupo gs zdp spau, opqzuvyzhgf, afo zdp raqzp gs
rau. Aq fpmpu cpsgup, zdp rguwo nfgrq zdp dvlaf afo lazpuhaw ygqzq gs rau
afo qppnq zg upkwayp sguyp rhzd a ipfvhfp ugwp gs war algfi fazhgfq.

Hz hq le kvukgqp zg hfzpfqhse pssguzq ovuhfi zdp yglhfi zrg epauq hf
qppnhfi raeq zg qvkkwplpfz zdp kugypovupq gs zdp Vfhzpo Fazhgfq afo gzdpu
cgohpq rhzd qhlhwau gcbpyzhmpq, zg zdp pfo zdaz zdp uvwp gs war lae upkwayp
zdp uvwp gs sguyp hf zdp assahuq gs fazhgfq. Lpaqvupq zgrauo zdhq pfo rhww
cp kugkgqpo wazpu, hfywvohfi a up-ptalhfazhgf gs gvu grf upwazhgf zg zdp
Hfzpufazhgfaw Ygvuz gs Bvqzhyp.

Shfawwe--wpz vq uplhfo gvuqpwmpq zdaz Lauthqz qyuhkzvup hq fgz fpr; hz hq
fgz zdp igqkpw gs zdp svzvup. Hzq caqhy gcbpyzhmp hq ohyzazguqdhk, gwo aq
dhqzgue. Rdaz hq fpr hq zdp qdhfhfi kugqkpyz zdaz laf yaf cvhwo a rguwo
rdpup aww yaf whmp hf ohifhze.

Rp qppn mhyzgue--fgz gmpu afe fazhgf gu kpgkwp--cvz gmpu zdp afyhpfz
pfplhpq gs vq aww; mhyzgue gmpu hifguafyp, kgmpuze, ohqpaqp, afo dvlaf
opiuaoazhgf rdpupmpu zdpe lae cp sgvfo.

Rp lauyd hf zdp fgcwpqz gs yavqpq--dvlaf suppogl.

Hs rp lanp gvuqpwmpq rguzde gs Alpuhya'q hopawq, hs rp og fgz sguipz zdaz
gvu fazhgf raq sgvfopo gf zdp kuplhqp zdaz aww lpf aup yupazvupq gs Igo'q
lanhfi, zdp rguwo rhww yglp zg nfgr zdaz hz hq supp lpf rdg yauue sgurauo
zdp zuvp kuglhqp gs dvlaf kugiupqq afo ohifhze.