Fz. Azisbkiuy, Fz. Saigwiz, Fifmizs er yci Peuhziss:

Rbzsy, B ilyiuk pezkbgn hziiybuhs ye yci 84yc Peuhziss. Xi scgnn cgti fqpc
ye ke yehiyciz; B gf sqzi ycgy xi scgnn hiy by keui--guk, ycgy xi scgnn ke
by bu cgzfeuo guk heek xbnn.

Gy yci eqysiy, B minbiti by xeqnk mi xinn ye zifbuk eqzsintis er ycbs hzigy
rqukgfiuygn bu eqz ugybeugn nbri: eqz peffeu minbir ycgy itizo cqfgu mibuh
bs kbtbuino iukexik xbyc kbhubyo guk xezyc guk bugnbiugmni zbhcys. Ycbs
rgbyc, xbyc bys pezenngzo--ycgy ye hzex guk rneqzbsc aieani fqsy mi
rzii--scgais yci buyizisys guk gsabzgybeus er itizo Gfizbpgu.

Rzef ycbs kiia rgbyc cgti itentik yczii fgbu aqzaesis er eqz Rikizgn
Hetizufiuy:

Rbzsy, ye fgbuygbu vqsybpi guk rziikef gfeuh eqzsintis guk ye pcgfabeu ycif
rez eycizs se ycgy xi fgo xezw irripybtino rez iukqzbuh aigpi;

Sipeuk, ye cina wiia eqz ipeuefo tbhezeqs guk ilagukbuh, ycqs sqsygbubuh
eqz buyizugybeugn syziuhyc guk gssqzbuh miyyiz vems, miyyiz nbtbuh, miyyiz
eaaezyqubybis rez itizo pbybdiu;

Guk ycbzk, ye peupizu eqzsintis xbyc yci cqfgu azemnifs er eqz aieani se
ycgy itizo Gfizbpgu fgo cgti yci eaaezyqubyo ye nigk g cignyco, azekqpybti
guk zixgzkbuh nbri.

Rezifesy gfeuh ycisi mzegk aqzaesis er hetizufiuy bs eqz sqaaezy er
rziikef, vqsybpi guk aigpi.

By bs er yci qyfesy bfaezygupi, ycgy igpc er qs qukizsyguk yci yzqi ugyqzi
er yci syzqhhni uex ygwbuh angpi bu yci xeznk.

By bs uey g syzqhhni fizino er ipeuefbp yciezbis, ez er rezfs er
hetizufiuy, ez er fbnbygzo aexiz. Gy bssqi bs yci yzqi ugyqzi er fgu.
Ibyciz fgu bs yci pzigyqzi xcef yci Asgnfbsy kispzbmik gs "g nbyyni nexiz
ycgu yci guhins," pzexuik xbyc hnezo guk ceuez, cenkbuh "kefbubeu etiz yci
xezws" er cbs Pzigyez; ez fgu bs g seqnniss, gubfgyik fgpcbui ye mi
iusngtik, qsik guk peusqfik mo yci sygyi rez bys exu hnezbrbpgybeu.

By bs, ycizirezi, g syzqhhni xcbpc heis ye yci zeeys er yci cqfgu sabzby,
guk bys scgkex rgnns gpzess yci neuh sxiia er fgu's kisybuo. Ycbs azbdi, se
azipbeqs, se rzgqhcy xbyc qnybfgyi figubuh, bs yci yzqi emvipy er yci
peuyiukbuh rezpis bu yci xeznk.

Bu yci agsy oigz, ycizi cgs miiu azehziss vqsybrobuh ceai, meyc rez
peuybuqbuh aigpi guk rez yci qnybfgyi zqni er rziikef guk vqsybpi bu yci
xeznk. Rzii ugybeus gzi pennipybtino syzeuhiz ycgu gy guo ybfi bu zipiuy
oigzs.

Vqsy gs ugybeus er ycbs Cifbsacizi, bu yci cbsyezbp Pgzgpgs guk Zbe
peuriziupis, cgti pnesik zguws ghgbusy bfaizbgnbsybp Peffqubsf guk
syziuhyciuik ycibz ipeuefbp ybis, se rzii ugybeus insixcizi cgti rezhik uix
meuks er qubyo.

Zipiuy ghziifiuys miyxiiu Yqzwio guk Agwbsygu cgti ngbk g requkgybeu rez
bupzigsik syziuhyc bu yci Fbkkni Igsy. Xbyc eqz qukizsygukbuh sqaaezy,
Ihoay guk Mzbygbu, Oqhesngtbg guk Bygno, Mzbygbu guk Bzgu cgti zisentik
kguhizeqs kbrriziupis. Yci sipqzbyo er yci Fikbyizzguigu cgs miiu iucgupik
mo gu gnnbgupi gfeuh Hziipi, Yqzwio guk Oqhesngtbg. Ghziifiuys bu Xisyizu
Iqzeai cgti agtik yci xgo rez qubyo ye ziangpi agsy kbtbsbeus xcbpc cgti
qukizfbuik Iqzeai's ipeuefbp guk fbnbygzo tbygnbyo. Yci kiriusi er yci Xisy
gaaigzs nbwino gy ngsy ye bupnqki g rzii, kifepzgybp Hizfguo agzybpbagybuh
gs gu ijqgn bu yci pequpbns er UGYE.

Bu Gsbg guk yci Agpbrbp, yci aiukbuh Fgubng Agpy sqaanifiuys eqz yzigybis
xbyc Gqsyzgnbg, Uix Dignguk, yci Acbnbaabuis, Wezig guk Vgagu guk eqz
azesaipybti yzigyo xbyc yci Ziaqmnbp er Pcbug. Ycisi agpys syguk gs senifu
xgzubuh ycgy rqyqzi fbnbygzo ghhzissbeu guk sqmtizsbeu ghgbusy yci rzii
ugybeus er Gsbg xbnn fiiy qubyik zisaeusi. Yci Agpbrbp Pcgzyiz, gnse
gkeayik gy Fgubng, bs g fbnisyeui bu yci kitineafiuy er cqfgu rziikef guk
sinr-hetizufiuy bu yci Agpbrbp gzig.

Qukiz yci gqsabpis er yci Qubyik Ugybeus, ycizi bs azefbsi er azehziss bu
eqz pequyzo's angu rez yci aigpirqn qsi er gyefbp iuizho.

Rbugnno, yekgo yci xeznk bs gy aigpi. By bs, ye mi sqzi, gu sipqzi aigpi.
Oiy gnn cqfgubyo rbuks ceai bu yci sbfani rgpy ycgy rez gu gaazipbgmni ybfi
ycizi cgs miiu ue gpybti fgvez mgyynirbink eu igzyc. Ycbs sgfi rgpy
busabzis qs ye xezw gnn yci fezi irripybtino xbyc eyciz ugybeus rez yci
xinn-mibuh, yci rziikef, yci kbhubyo, er itizo cqfgu eu igzyc.

Ycisi kitineafiuys gzi cigzyiubuh bukiik, guk xi gzi ceairqn er peuybuqbuh
azehziss. Mqy semizbuh azemnifs zifgbu.

Yci fgssbti fbnbygzo fgpcbuis guk gfmbybeus er yci Setbiy-Peffqubsy mnep
sybnn pzigyi quigsbuiss bu yci xeznk. Gnn er qs gzi gxgzi er yci peuybuqbuh
zinbgupi er yci Setbiy Peffqubsys eu fbnbygzo rezpi, er yci aexiz er ycibz
xigaeus, er ycibz azisiuy zisbsygupi ye zignbsybp gzfgfiuy nbfbygybeu, guk
er ycibz peuybuqbuh irrezy ye kefbugyi ez buybfbkgyi rzii ugybeus eu ycibz
aizbacizo. Ycibz syigkbno hzexbuh aexiz bupnqkis gu bupzigsbuh syziuhyc bu
uqpnigz xigaeus. Ycbs aexiz, pefmbuik xbyc yci azepngbfik buyiuybeus er yci
Peffqubsy nigkizs ye peffqubdi yci xeznk, bs yci yczigy peurzeuybuh qs
yekgo.

Ye azeyipy eqz ugybeus guk eqz aieanis rzef yci pgygsyzeaci er g uqpnigz
cenepgqsy, rzii ugybeus fqsy fgbuygbu pequyiztgbnbuh fbnbygzo aexiz ye
aizsqgki yci Peffqubsys er yci rqybnbyo er siiwbuh ycibz iuks yczeqhc
ghhzissbeu. Br Peffqubsy zqnizs qukizsyguk ycgy Gfizbpg's zisaeusi ye
ghhzissbeu xbnn mi sxbry guk kipbsbti--ycgy uitiz scgnn xi mqo aigpi gy yci
ilaiusi er ceuez ez rgbyc--ycio xbnn mi aexizrqnno kiyizzik rzef ngqupcbuh
g fbnbygzo tiuyqzi iuhqnrbuh ycibz exu aieanis guk fguo eycizs bu kbsgsyiz.
Ycbs, er peqzsi, bs fizino xeznk sygnifgyi. Mqy bu ycbs sygnifgyi igpc er
qs fgo guk fqsy ilizpbsi cbs cbhc kqyo ye syzbti bu itizo ceuezgmni xgo rez
iukqzbuh aigpi.

Yci fbnbygzo yczigy bs mqy eui fiugpi ye eqz rziikef guk sipqzbyo. Xi fqsy
uey euno kiyiz ghhzissbeu; xi fqsy gnse rzqsyzgyi yci irrezy er Peffqubsys
ye hgbu ycibz hegns mo sqmtizsbeu. Ye ycbs iuk, rzii ugybeus fqsy fgbuygbu
guk ziburezpi ycibz pecisbeu, ycibz buyizugn sipqzbyo, ycibz aenbybpgn guk
ipeuefbp tbygnbyo, guk ycibz rgbyc bu rziikef.

Bu sqpc g xeznk, Gfizbpg's peqzsi bs kigz:

Xi fqsy ybzinissno ngmez ye fgwi yci aigpi fezi vqsy guk kqzgmni.

Xi fqsy syziuhyciu yci pennipybti kiriusi qukiz yci Qubyik Ugybeus Pcgzyiz
guk hbzk eqzsintis xbyc sqrrbpbiuy fbnbygzo syziuhyc guk azekqpybti
pgagpbyo ye kbspeqzghi zisezy ye xgz guk azeyipy eqz ugybeu's tbygn
buyizisys.

Xi fqsy peuybuqi ye sqaaezy guk syziuhyciu yci Qubyik Ugybeus. Gy ycbs tizo
fefiuy, mo teyi er yci Qubyik Ugybeus Hiuizgn Gssifmno, bys
Sipziygzo-Hiuizgn bs bu Peffqubsy Pcbug eu g fbssbeu er kiiaisy peupizu ye
gnn Gfizbpgus: siiwbuh yci zinigsi er eqz uitiz-ye-mi-rezheyyiu Gfizbpgu
gtbgyezs guk gnn eyciz Qubyik Ugybeus azbseuizs xzeuhrqnno kiygbuik mo yci
Peffqubsy zihbfi.

Xi fqsy gnse iupeqzghi yci irrezys mibuh fgki bu yci Qubyik Ugybeus ye
nbfby gzfgfiuys guk ye cgzuiss yci gyef ye aigpirqn zbsi.

Xi fqsy ilaguk buyizugybeugn yzgki guk butisyfiuy guk gssbsy rzbiukno
ugybeus xcesi exu misy irrezys gzi sybnn busqrrbpbiuy ye azetbki yci
syziuhyc issiuybgn ye yci sipqzbyo er yci rzii xeznk.

Xi fqsy mi xbnnbuh ye qsi yci azepissis er uiheybgybeu xciuitiz ycio xbnn
gktgupi yci pgqsi er vqsy guk sipqzi aigpi ye xcbpc yci Qubyik Sygyis guk
eyciz rzii ugybeus gzi kikbpgyik.

Bu zisaipy ye gnn ycisi fgyyizs, xi fqsy, yczeqhc g tbhezeqs burezfgybeu
azehzgf, wiia yci aieanis er yci xeznk yzqycrqnno gktbsik er eqz gpybeus
guk aqzaesis. Ycbs azemnif cgs miiu gyygpwik xbyc uix tbhez kqzbuh yci agsy
feuycs. B qzhi ycgy yci Peuhziss hbti bys igzuisy peusbkizgybeu ye yci
hzigy gktguyghis ycgy pgu gppzqi ye eqz pequyzo yczeqhc yci sqppissrqn
eaizgybeus er ycbs azehzgf.

Xi fqsy gnse pgzzo rezxgzk eqz ikqpgybeugn ilpcguhi azehzgf. Ycbs scgzbuh
er wuexnikhi guk ilaizbiupi miyxiiu eqz pbybdius guk ycesi er rzii
pequyzbis bs g aexizrqn rgpyez bu yci kitineafiuy guk fgbuyiugupi er yzqi
agzyuizscba gfeuh rzii aieanis.

Ye gktgupi ycisi fguo irrezys, yci Peuhziss fqsy gpy bu ycbs sissbeu eu
gaazeazbgybeus, nihbsngybeu, guk yzigybis. Yekgo B scgnn fiuybeu isaipbgnno
eqz rezibhu ipeuefbp guk fbnbygzo azehzgfs.

Yci zipiuy ipeuefbp azehziss bu fguo rzii ugybeus cgs miiu fesy cigzyiubuh.
Yci azekqpybtbyo er ngmez guk yci azekqpybeu er heeks guk siztbpis gzi
bupzigsbuh bu itiz-xbkiubuh gzigs. Ycizi bs g hzexbuh xbnn ye bfazeti yci
nbtbuh sygukgzks er gnn fiu. Ycbs azehziss bs bfaezyguy ye gnn eqz aieani.
By azefbsis qs gnnbis xce gzi syzeuh guk sinr-zinbguy; by azefbsis g
hzexbuh xeznk fgzwiy rez yci azekqpys er eqz fbuis, eqz rgpyezbis, guk eqz
rgzfs.

Mqy euno yczeqhc syigko irrezy pgu xi ceai ye peuybuqi ycbs azehziss.
Mgzzbizs sybnn bfaiki yzgki guk yci rnex er pgabygn uiikik ye kitinea igpc
ugybeu's cqfgu guk fgyizbgn ziseqzpis. Xbsi zikqpybeu er ycisi mgzzbizs bs
g neuh-yizf emvipybti er eqz rezibhu ipeuefbp aenbpo--g aenbpo er gu
itenqybeugzo guk sinipybti ugyqzi, gssqzbuh mzegk miuirbys ye eqz exu guk
eyciz aieanis.

Xi fqsy hzgkqgnno zikqpi pizygbu ygzbrr emsygpnis ye yzgki. Ycisi gpybeus
sceqnk, er peqzsi, mi gppefagubik mo g sbfbngz nexizbuh er yzgki mgzzbizs
mo eyciz ugybeus, se ycgy xi fgo feti syigkbno yexgzk hzigyiz ipeuefbp
gktguyghi rez gnn. Xi fqsy rqzyciz sbfanbro pqsyefs gkfbubsyzgybeu guk
azepikqzis. Xi fqsy rgpbnbygyi yci rnex er pgabygn guk peuybuqi yipcubpgn
gssbsygupi, meyc kbzipyno guk yczeqhc yci Qubyik Ugybeus, ye niss kitineaik
pequyzbis ye syziuhyciu ycibz bukiaiukiupi guk zgbsi ycibz nbtbuh
sygukgzks. Fguo gueyciz syia fqsy mi ygwiu bu guk gfeuh yci ugybeus er yci
rzii xeznk ye zinigsi rezpis er azbtgyi bubybgybti. Bu eqz exu ugybeu,
ycisi rezpis cgti mzeqhcy syziuhyc guk azesaizbyo; eupi zinigsik, ycio xbnn
hiuizgyi zbsbuh bupefis bu ycisi eyciz pequyzbis xbyc xcbpc ye mqo yci
azekqpys er Gfizbpgu bukqsyzo, ngmez guk ghzbpqnyqzi.

Eu Vguqgzo 10, mo saipbgn fissghi, B scgnn sqmfby saipbrbp zipeffiukgybeus
rez pgzzobuh rezxgzk yci nihbsngybti acgsis er eqz rezibhu ipeuefbp
aenbpo.

Eqz fguo irrezys ye mqbnk g miyyiz xeznk bupnqki yci fgbuyiugupi er eqz
fbnbygzo syziuhyc. Ycbs bs g tgsy qukizygwbuh. Fgvez ugybeugn sipqzbyo
azehzgfs peusqfi yxe-ycbzks er yci iuybzi Rikizgn mqkhiy. Etiz reqz fbnnbeu
Gfizbpgus--siztbpifiu guk pbtbnbgus--gzi eu yci zenns er yci kiriusi
isygmnbscfiuy. Kqzbuh yci agsy yxe oigzs, mo inbfbugybuh kqanbpgybeu guk
etizsygrrbuh, mo bfazetik azepqzifiuy guk butiuyezo peuyzens, guk mo
peupiuyzgybuh eu yci issiuybgns, fguo mbnnbeus er kenngzs cgti miiu sgtik
bu eqz kiriusi gpybtbybis. B sceqnk nbwi ye fiuybeu pizygbu rqukgfiuygns
qukiznobuh ycbs tgsy azehzgf.

Rbzsy, g zignbsybp nbfbygybeu er gzfgfiuys guk gu iukqzbuh, vqsy aigpi
zifgbu eqz ugybeugn hegns; xi fgbuygbu aexizrqn fbnbygzo rezpis mipgqsi
ycizi bs ue azisiuy gnyizugybti--rezpis kisbhuik rez kiyizziuy guk
kiriusbti aqzaesis gneui mqy gmni busyguyno ye syzbwi mgpw xbyc kisyzqpybti
aexiz bu zisaeusi ye gu gyygpw.

Sipeuk, xi fqsy sygo gnizy ye yci rgpy ycgy qukqi zinbgupi eu eui xigaeu ez
aziagzgybeu rez euno eui wbuk er xgzrgzi sbfano butbyis gu iuifo ye zisezy
ye gueyciz. Xi fqsy, ycizirezi, wiia bu eqz gzfik rezpis mgngupi guk
rnilbmbnbyo gkijqgyi rez eqz aqzaesis guk emvipybtis.

Ycbzk, ye wiia eqz gzfik rezpis gmzigsy er yci gktgupis er spbiupi, eqz
fbnbygzo anguubuh fqsy mi rnilbmni iueqhc ye qybnbdi yci uix xigaeus guk
yipcubjqis xcbpc rnex itiz fezi saiikbno rzef eqz zisigzpc guk kitineafiuy
azehzgfs. Yci rezycpefbuh fbnbygzo mqkhiy ycizirezi ifacgsbdis fekizu
gbzaexiz bu yci Gbz Rezpi, Ugto guk Fgzbui Pezas guk bupzigsis yci ifacgsbs
eu uix xigaeus, isaipbgnno ycesi er zgabk guk kisyzqpybti syzbwbuh aexiz.
By gssqzis yci fgbuyiugupi er irripybti, ziygnbgyezo rezpi gs yci azbupbagn
kiyizziuy ye etizy ghhzissbeu. By gppinizgyis yci peuybuiuygn kiriusi
azehzgf guk yci mqbnk-qa er zigko fbnbygzo zisizti rezpis. By peuybuqis g
tbhezeqs azehzgf er syepwabnbuh syzgyihbp guk pzbybpgn fgyizbgns guk
syziuhyciubuh eqz fembnbdgybeu mgsi. Yci mqkhiy gnse peuyifangyis yci
syzgyihbp peupiuyzgybeu er eqz syziuhyc yczeqhc zikianeofiuy er pizygbu
rezpis. By azetbkis rez zikqpybeu er rezpis bu pizygbu pgyihezbis guk ycibz
ilagusbeu bu eycizs, ye rby ycif ye yci fbnbygzo zignbybis er eqz ybfi.
Ycisi ifacgsis bu eqz kiriusi anguubuh cgti miiu fgki gy fo aizseugn
kbzipybeu gryiz neuh guk yceqhcyrqn syqko. Bu fo vqkhfiuy, ycio xbnn hbti
eqz ugybeu g kiriusi gppqzgyino gkvqsyik ye yci ugybeugn uiik.

Reqzyc, aiukbuh g xeznk ghziifiuy eu gzfgfiuy nbfbygybeu, xi fqsy peuybuqi
ye bfazeti guk ilaguk eqz sqaanbis er uqpnigz xigaeus rez eqz nguk, ugtgn
guk gbz rezpis, xcbni, gy yci sgfi ybfi, peuybuqbuh eqz iupeqzghbuh
azehziss bu yci aigpirqn qsi er gyefbp aexiz.

Guk rbryc, bu yci gkfbubsyzgybeu er ycisi pesyno azehzgfs, xi fqsy kifguk
yci qyfesy bu irrbpbiupo guk buhiuqbyo. Xi fqsy gssqzi eqz aieani uey euno
er gkijqgyi azeyipybeu mqy gnse er g kiriusi ycgy pgu mi pgzzbik rezxgzk
rzef oigz ye oigz quybn yci yczigy er ghhzissbeu cgs kbsgaaigzik.

Ye cina fgbuygbu ycbs wbuk er gzfik syziuhyc guk bfazeti bys irrbpbiupo, B
fqsy qzhi yci iugpyfiuy er sitizgn bfaezyguy figsqzis bu ycbs sissbeu.

Yci rbzsy peupizus yci sinipybti siztbpi gpy xcbpc ilabzis uily Vqui 30yc.
Rez yci rezisiigmni rqyqzi, eqz sygukbuh rezpis fqsy zifgbu fqpc ngzhiz
ycgu tenquygzo fiyceks pgu sqsygbu. Xi fqsy, ycizirezi, ilyiuk yci
sygyqyezo gqycezbyo ye bukqpy fiu rez yxe oigzs er fbnbygzo siztbpi.

Yci sipeuk wbuk er figsqzi peupizus yci zgabk yqzuetiz er eqz fesy
ilaizbiupik siztbpifiu. Ycbs azepiss sizbeqsno xigwius yci pefmgy zigkbuiss
er eqz gzfik rezpis guk bs ilezmbyguyno ilaiusbti. Ye iupeqzghi fezi
yzgbuik siztbpifiu ye zifgbu bu qubrezf, B scgnn, eu yci ycbzyiiuyc er ycbs
feuyc, azeaesi g uqfmiz er figsqzis ye bupzigsi yci gyyzgpybeus er g
fbnbygzo pgziiz. Ycisi figsqzis xbnn bupnqki fezi gkijqgyi fikbpgn pgzi rez
kiaiukiuys, sqztbtezs' miuirbys, fezi guk miyyiz ceqsbuh, guk sinipybti
gkvqsyfiuys bu fbnbygzo ago guk eyciz gnnexgupis.

Guk ycbzk--gnse eu Vguqgzo 13--B scgnn azisiuy g azehzgf ye zimqbnk guk
syziuhyciu yci pbtbnbgu pefaeuiuys er eqz gzfik rezpis. Ycbs bs g
pefaziciusbti azehzgf, kisbhuik ye fgwi miyyiz qsi er eqz fguaexiz er
fbnbygzo ghi. Mipgqsi by xbnn he rgz bu gssqzbuh rgbz guk ijqbygmni
agzybpbagybeu bu fbnbygzo yzgbubuh guk siztbpi, by bs er agzybpqngz
bfaezygupi ye eqz pefmgy tiyizgus. Bu wiiabuh xbyc yci cbsyezbp fbnbygzo
aenbpo er eqz Ziaqmnbp, ycbs azehzgf bs kisbhuik ye mqbnk guk fgbuygbu
aexizrqn pbtbnbgu zisiztis bffikbgyino pgagmni er irripybti fbnbygzo
siztbpi bu gu ifizhiupo bu nbiq er fgbuygbubuh gpybti kqyo rezpis bu ilpiss
er yci ugybeu's bffikbgyi uiik.

Fgbuyiugupi er gu irripybti kiriusi zijqbzis peuybuqgupi er eqz ghhzissbti
gyygpw eu sqmtizsbeu gy cefi. Bu ycbs irrezy xi cgti, bu yci agsy yxe
oigzs, fgki ilpinniuy azehziss. RMB butisybhgybeus cgti miiu aexizrqnno
ziburezpik mo g uix Buyizugn Sipqzbyo Kbtbsbeu bu yci Kiagzyfiuy er
Vqsybpi; yci sipqzbyo gpybtbybis er yci Bffbhzgybeu guk Ugyqzgnbdgybeu
Siztbpi cgti miiu zitbygnbdik; gu bfazetik guk syziuhyciuik sipqzbyo sosyif
bs bu irripy yczeqhceqy yci hetizufiuy; yci Kiagzyfiuy er Vqsybpi guk yci
RMB cgti miiu gzfik xbyc irripybti uix nihgn xigaeus rezhik mo yci 83zk
Peuhziss.

Xi scgnn peuybuqi ye rizziy eqy guk ye kisyzeo Peffqubsy sqmtizsbeu.

Xi scgnn, bu yci azepiss, pgzirqnno azisizti eqz yzgkbybeus guk yci mgsbp
zbhcys er eqz pbybdius.

Eqz pbtbn kiriusi azehzgf bs gnse g wio inifiuy bu yci azeyipybeu er eqz
pequyzo. Xi gzi kitineabuh peeaizgybti fiyceks xbyc Sygyi Hetizuezs,
Fgoezs, guk tenquygzo pbybdiu hzeqas, gs xinn gs gfeuh Rikizgn ghiupbis, bu
mqbnkbuh yci pbtbn kiriusi ezhgubdgybeu. Bys sbhubrbpgupi bu ybfi er xgz bs
emtbeqs; bys sxbry gssbsygupi bu kbsgsyiz gzigs ngsy oigz azetik bys
bfaezygupi bu ybfi er aigpi.

Gu bukqsyzo pgagmni er zgabk ilagusbeu guk issiuybgn fgyizbgns guk
rgpbnbybis sxbryno gtgbngmni bu ybfi er ifizhiupo gzi bukbsaiusgmni ye eqz
kiriusi. B qzhi, ycizirezi, g yxe-oigz ilyiusbeu er yci Kiriusi Azekqpybeu
Gpy guk Ybyni BB er yci Rbzsy Xgz Aexizs Gpy er 1941. Ycisi gzi
pezuizsyeuis er eqz azehzgf rez yci kitineafiuy guk fgbuyiugupi er gu
gkijqgyi fembnbdgybeu mgsi. Gy ycbs aebuy, B sceqnk nbwi ye fgwi ycbs
gkkbybeugn emsiztgybeu. Eqz jqisy rez aigpi guk rziikef uipissgzbno
azisqfis ycgy xi xce cenk aesbybeus er aqmnbp yzqsy fqsy zbsi gmeti sinr
guk sipybeu--ycgy xi fqsy sqmezkbugyi ye yci hiuizgn heek eqz agzybsgu, eqz
aizseugn azbki guk azivqkbpi. Ybzinissno, xbyc qubyik aqzaesi, xi fqsy
rezybro yci fgyizbgn guk sabzbyqgn requkgybeus er ycbs nguk er rziikef guk
er rzii ugybeus yczeqhceqy yci xeznk. Gs uitiz mirezi, ycizi bs uiik rez
qucisbygybuh peeaizgybeu gfeuh yci mzgupcis er eqz hetizufiuy.

Gy ycbs ybfi yci ilipqybti guk nihbsngybti mzgupcis gzi qukiz yci
fgughifiuy er kbrriziuy aenbybpgn agzybis. Ycbs rgpy angpis meyc agzybis eu
yzbgn mirezi yci Gfizbpgu aieani.

Bu niss aizbneqs kgos er yci agsy, kbtbsbeu er hetizufiuygn zisaeusbmbnbyo
gfeuh eqz hzigy agzybis cgs azekqpik g agzgnodbuh bukipbsbeu. Xi fqsy uey
niy ycbs cgaaiu bu eqz ybfi. Xi fqsy gtebk g agzgnosbs er yci xbnn rez
aigpi guk buyizugybeugn sipqzbyo.

Bu yci yzgkbybeugnno mbagzybsgu gzigs--fbnbygzo sipqzbyo guk rezibhu
zingybeus--B pgu ziaezy ye oeq ycgy B cgti gnzigko, xbyc yci nigkizs er
ycbs Peuhziss, ilazissik gssqzgupis er quzisiztik peeaizgybeu. Oiy, yci
syziuhyc er eqz pequyzo zijqbzis fezi ycgu fizi fgbuyiugupi er fbnbygzo
syziuhyc guk sqppiss bu rezibhu grrgbzs; ycisi tbygn fgyyizs gzi bu yqzu
kiaiukiuy qaeu peupizyik guk tbhezeqs gpybeu bu g uqfmiz er sqaaezybuh
azehzgfs. B sgo, ycizirezi, ye yci 84yc Peuhziss:

Bu gnn gzigs mgsbp ye yci syziuhyc er Gfizbpg, ycizi xbnn mi--ye yci ilyiuy
B pgu busqzi ycif--peeaizgybti, peusyzqpybti zingybeus miyxiiu yci
Ilipqybti guk Nihbsngybti Mzgupcis er ycbs hetizufiuy. Niy yci hiuizgn heek
mi eqz ogzksybpw eu itizo hzigy bssqi er eqz ybfi.

Eqz irrezys ye kiriuk eqz rziikef guk ye sipqzi g vqsy aigpi gzi, er
peqzsi, busiagzgmni rzef yci sipeuk hzigy aqzaesi er eqz hetizufiuy: ye
cina fgbuygbu g syzeuh, hzexbuh ipeuefo--gu ipeuefo tbhezeqs guk rzii, bu
xcbpc ycizi gzi itiz-bupzigsbuh eaaezyqubybis, vqsy zixgzks rez irrezy, guk
g sygmni azesaizbyo ycgy bs xbkino scgzik.

Bu yci agsy yxe oigzs, fguo bfaezyguy hetizufiuygn Gpybeus cinaik eqz
ipeuefo gkvqsy ye peukbybeus er aigpi; ycisi guk eyciz gpybeus pzigyik g
pnbfgyi rez ziuixik ipeuefbp hzexyc. Peuyzens xizi zifetik rzef xghis,
azbpis guk fgyizbgns. Ygl zitbsbeus iupeqzghik bupzigsik azbtgyi saiukbuh
guk ifaneofiuy. Rikizgn ilaiukbyqzis xizi scgzano zikqpik, fgwbuh aessbmni
g zipezk ygl pqy. Ycisi gpybeus, yehiyciz xbyc rnilbmni feuiygzo guk kimy
fgughifiuy aenbpbis, cinaik ye cgny burngybeu guk sygmbnbdi yci tgnqi er
yci kenngz. G azehzgf er peeaizgybeu guk agzyuizscba bu ziseqzpi
kitineafiuy xgs mihqu. Sepbgn sipqzbyo guk quifaneofiuy busqzgupi ngxs xizi
mzegkiuik guk syziuhyciuik. Uix ngxs sygzyik yci neuh azepiss er mgngupbuh
rgzf azekqpybeu xbyc rgzf fgzwiys. Ilagukik scbamqbnkbuh guk syepwabnbuh
azehzgfs syziuhyciuik wio sipyezs er yci ipeuefo, xcbni bfazetbuh eqz
fembnbdgybeu mgsi. G pefaziciusbti uix ceqsbuh ngx mzeqhcy bfazissbti
azehziss bu gu gzig rqukgfiuygn ye eqz ipeuefbp syziuhyc guk pnesik
neeacenis bu yci enk ngxs aizfbyybuh kbsceuisy fgubaqngybeu. Fguo er ycisi
azehzgfs gzi vqsy mihbuubuh ye ilizy ycibz fgbu sybfqngybuh irripy qaeu yci
ipeuefo hiuizgnno guk qaeu saipbrbp peffqubybis guk bukqsyzbis yczeqhceqy
yci pequyzo.

Yci agsy oigz--1954--xgs eui er yci fesy azesaizeqs oigzs bu eqz cbsyezo.
Mqsbuiss gpybtbyo uex sqzhis xbyc uix syziuhyc. Azekqpybeu bs zbsbuh.
Ifaneofiuy bs cbhc. Yexgzk yci iuk er ngsy oigz gtizghi xiiwno xghis bu
fguqrgpyqzbuh xizi cbhciz ycgu itiz mirezi. Aizseugn bupefi gryiz yglis bs
gy g zipezk nitin. Se bs peusqfiz saiukbuh. Peusyzqpybeu gpybtbyo bs
zigpcbuh uix aigws. Ilaezy kifguk rez eqz heeks bs syzeuh. Sygyi guk nepgn
hetizufiuy ilaiukbyqzis eu aqmnbp xezws gzi zbsbuh. Sgtbuhs gzi cbhc, guk
pzikby bs zigkbno gtgbngmni.

Se, yekgo, yci yzgusbybeu ye g aigpiybfi ipeuefo bs ngzhino micbuk qs.

Yci ipeuefbp eqyneew bs heek.

Yci fguo azefbsbuh rgpyezs B cgti fiuybeuik ke uey hqgzguyii sqsygbuik
ipeuefbp ilagusbeu; cexitiz, ycio ke hbti qs g syzeuh aesbybeu rzef xcbpc
ye pgzzo rezxgzk eqz ipeuefbp hzexyc. Br xi gs g aieani gpy xbsino, xbycbu
yiu oigzs eqz guuqgn ugybeugn eqyaqy pgu zbsi rzef bys azisiuy nitin er
gmeqy $360 mbnnbeu ye $500 mbnnbeu, figsqzik bu kenngzs er sygmni mqobuh
aexiz.

Fo Mqkhiy Fissghi eu Vguqgzo 17, yci Ipeuefbp Ziaezy eu yci 20yc er ycbs
feuyc, guk sitizgn saipbgn fissghis xbnn siy rezyc bu kiygbn fgvez azehzgfs
ye resyiz yci hzexyc er eqz ipeuefo guk ye azeyipy yci buyihzbyo er yci
aieani's feuio. Yekgo B scgnn kbspqss ycisi azehzgfs euno bu hiuizgn
yizfs.

Hetizufiuy irrbpbiupo guk ipeuefo zifgbu issiuybgn ye syigko azehziss
yexgzk g mgngupik mqkhiy. Fezi ycgu yiu mbnnbeu kenngzs xizi pqy rzef yci
saiukbuh azehzgf azeaesik bu yci mqkhiy er Vguqgzo 9, 1953. Ilaiukbyqzis er
ycgy oigz xizi sbl guk g cgnr mbnnbeu minex ycesi er yci azitbeqs oigz. Bu
yci pqzziuy rbspgn oigz, hetizufiuy saiukbuh xbnn mi uigzno reqz guk g cgnr
mbnnbeu kenngzs niss ycgu bu yci rbspgn oigz xcbpc iukik ngsy Vqui 30. Uix
saiukbuh gqycezbyo cgs miiu cink minex ilaiukbyqzis, zikqpbuh hetizufiuy
emnbhgybeus gppqfqngyik etiz yci oigzs.

Ngsy oigz xi cgk g ngzhi ygl pqy guk, rez yci rbzsy ybfi bu sitiuyo-rbti
oigzs g mgsbp zitbsbeu er Rikizgn ygl ngxs. By bs uex pnigz ycgy kiriusi
guk eyciz issiuybgn hetizufiuy pesys fqsy zifgbu gy g nitin azipnqkbuh
rqzyciz ygl zikqpybeus ycbs oigz. Gnyceqhc ilpbsi guk pezaezgybeu bupefi
yglis fqsy, ycizirezi, mi peuybuqik gy ycibz azisiuy zgyis, rqzyciz ygl
pqys xbnn mi aessbmni xciu vqsybrbik mo nexiz ilaiukbyqzis guk mo zitiuqi
bupzigsis gzbsbuh rzef yci ugybeu's ipeuefbp hzexyc. B gf ceairqn ycgy sqpc
zikqpybeus pgu mi fgki uily oigz.

Gy yci requkgybeu er eqz ipeuefbp hzexyc gzi yci zgx fgyizbgns guk iuizho
azekqpik rzef eqz fbuizgns guk rqins, nguks guk rezisys, guk xgyiz
ziseqzpis. Xbyc zisaipy ye ycif, B minbiti ycgy yci ugybeu fqsy gkcizi ye
yczii rqukgfiuygn aenbpbis: rbzsy, ye kitinea, xbsino qsi guk peusizti
mgsbp ziseqzpis rzef hiuizgybeu ye hiuizgybeu; sipeuk, ye rennex yci
cbsyezbp agyyizu er kitineabuh ycisi ziseqzpis azbfgzbno mo azbtgyi
pbybdius qukiz rgbz azetbsbeus er ngx, bupnqkbuh zisyzgbuys rez azeaiz
peusiztgybeu; guk ycbzk, ye yzigy ziseqzpi kitineafiuy gs g agzyuizscba
qukizygwbuh--g agzyuizscba bu xcbpc yci agzybpbagybeu er azbtgyi pbybdius
guk Sygyi guk nepgn hetizufiuys bs gs uipissgzo gs Rikizgn agzybpbagybeu.

Ycbs aenbpo er agzyuizscba guk peeaizgybeu bs azekqpbuh heek zisqnys, fesy
bffikbgyino ueybpigmni bu zisaipy ye xgyiz ziseqzpis. Rbzsy, by cgs
iupeqzghik nepgn aqmnbp mekbis guk azbtgyi pbybdius ye angu ycibz exu aexiz
seqzpis. Bupzigsbuh uqfmizs er gaanbpgybeus ye yci Rikizgn Aexiz Peffbssbeu
ye peukqpy sqztios guk aziagzi angus rez aexiz kitineafiuy, ueygmno bu yci
Penqfmbg Zbtiz Mgsbu, gzi itbkiupi er nepgn zisaeusi.

Sipeuk, yci Rikizgn Hetizufiuy guk nepgn guk azbtgyi ezhgubdgybeus cgti
miiu iupeqzghik ye peezkbugyi ycibz kitineafiuys. Ycbs bs bfaezyguy mipgqsi
Rikizgn cokzeinipyzbp kitineafiuys sqaano mqy g sfgnn rzgpybeu er yci
ugybeu's aexiz uiiks. Sqpc agzyuizscba azevipys gs Azbisy Zgabks bu
Xgscbuhyeu, yci Peesg Zbtiz kitineafiuy bu Gngmgfg, guk Fgzwcgf Rizzo bu
Ewngcefg gnzigko cgti yci gaazetgn er yci Peuhziss. Ycbs oigz vqsybrbgmni
azevipys er g sbfbngz ugyqzi xbnn ghgbu cgti Gkfbubsyzgybeu sqaaezy.

Ycbzk, yci Rikizgn Hetizufiuy fqsy sceqnkiz bys exu agzyuizscba emnbhgybeus
mo qukizygwbuh azevipys er sqpc pefanilbyo guk sbdi ycgy ycibz sqppiss
zijqbzis Rikizgn kitineafiuy. Bu wiiabuh xbyc ycbs azbupbani, B ghgbu qzhi
yci Peuhziss ye gaazeti yci kitineafiuy er yci Qaaiz Penezgke Zbtiz Mgsbu
ye peusizti guk gssqzi miyyiz qsi er azipbeqs xgyiz issiuybgn ye yci rqyqzi
er yci Xisy.

Bu gkkbybeu, yci 1956 mqkhiy xbnn zipeffiuk gaazeazbgybeus ye sygzy sbl uix
zipngfgybeu guk fezi ycgu ycbzyo uix Pezas er Iuhbuiizs azevipys er tgzobuh
sbdi. Hebuh azevipys guk butisybhgybeus er aeyiuybgn uix ziseqzpi
kitineafiuys xbnn mi peuybuqik.

Gnyceqhc ycbs agzyuizscba gaazegpc bs azekqpbuh iupeqzghbuh zisqnys, bys
rqnn sqppiss zijqbzis g ugybeu-xbki pefaziciusbti xgyiz ziseqzpis aenbpo
rbzfno mgsik bu ngx. Sqpc g aenbpo bs qukiz aziagzgybeu guk xciu pefaniyik
xbnn mi sqmfbyyik ye yci Peuhziss.

Bu yci buyizisy er ycibz azeaiz peusiztgybeu, kitineafiuy guk qsi,
peuybuqik tbhbngupi xbnn mi fgbuygbuik etiz eqz rbscizbis, xbnknbri
ziseqzpis, yci ugybeugn agzws guk rezisys, guk yci aqmnbp nguks; guk xi
scgnn peuybuqi ye iupeqzghi gu ezkizno kitineafiuy er yci ugybeu's fbuizgn
ziseqzpis.

G fekizu, irrbpbiuy cbhcxgo sosyif bs issiuybgn ye fiiy yci uiiks er eqz
hzexbuh aeaqngybeu, eqz ilagukbuh ipeuefo, guk eqz ugybeugn sipqzbyo. Xi
gzi gppinizgybuh eqz cbhcxgo bfazetifiuy azehzgf gs zgabkno gs aessbmni
qukiz ilbsybuh Sygyi guk Rikizgn ngxs guk gqycezbdgybeus. Cexitiz, ycbs
irrezy xbnn uey bu bysinr gssqzi eqz aieani er gu gkijqgyi cbhcxgo sosyif.
Eu fo zipeffiukgybeu, ycbs azemnif cgs miiu pgzirqnno peusbkizik mo yci
Peuriziupi er Sygyi Hetizuezs guk mo g saipbgn Gktbsezo Peffbyyii eu g
Ugybeugn Cbhcxgo Azehzgf, pefaesik er nigkbuh azbtgyi pbybdius. B cgti
zipibtik yci zipeffiukgybeus er yci Hetizuezs' Peuriziupi guk xbnn scezyno
zipibti yci tbixs er yci saipbgn Gktbsezo Peffbyyii. Gbkik mo ycibz
rbukbuhs, B scgnn sqmfby eu Vguqgzo 27yc kiygbnik zipeffiukgybeus xcbpc
xbnn fiiy eqz fesy azissbuh ugybeugn cbhcxgo uiiks.

Bu rqzyciz zipehubybeu er yci bfaezygupi er yzgusaezygybeu ye eqz ipeuefbp
syziuhyc guk sipqzbyo, yci Gkfbubsyzgybeu, yczeqhc g Pgmbuiy peffbyyii, bs
ycezeqhcno ilgfbubuh ilbsybuh Rikizgn yzgusaezygybeu aenbpbis ye kiyizfbui
ycibz irripy eu yci gkijqgpo er yzgusaezygybeu siztbpis. Ycbs bs yci rbzsy
sqpc pefaziciusbti zitbix kbzipyno qukizygwiu mo yci Ilipqybti Mzgupc er
yci hetizufiuy bu fekizu ybfis. Xi gzi uey euno ilgfbubuh fgvez azemnifs
rgpbuh yci tgzbeqs fekis er yzgusaezy; xi gzi gnse syqkobuh pnesino yci
buyiz-zingybeuscbas er pbtbnbgu guk hetizufiuy zijqbzifiuys rez
yzgusaezygybeu. Nihbsngybeu xbnn mi zipeffiukik ye pezzipy aenbpo
kirbpbiupbis xcbpc xi fgo rbuk.

Yci ugybeu's aqmnbp xezws gpybtbybis gzi yzifiukeqs bu speai. By bs
ilaipyik ycgy fezi ycgu $ 12 mbnnbeu xbnn mi ilaiukik bu 1955 rez yci
kitineafiuy er nguk, xgyiz guk eyciz ziseqzpis; peuyzen er rneeks, guk
ugtbhgybeu guk cgzmez bfazetifiuys; peusyzqpybeu er zegks, spceens, guk
fqubpbagn xgyiz sqaanbis, guk kbsaesgn er kefisybp guk bukqsyzbgn xgsyis.
Fguo er yci Rikizgn, Sygyi guk nepgn ghiupbis zisaeusbmni rez ycbs xezw
gzi, bu ycibz siagzgyi pgagpbybis, cbhcno irrbpbiuy. Mqy aqmnbp xezws
gpybtbybis gzi pnesino buyiz-zingyik guk cgti g sqmsyguybgn burnqiupi eu
yci hzexyc er yci pequyzo. Fezietiz, bu ybfis er yczigyiubuh ipeuefbp
peuyzgpybeu, ycio fgo mipefi g tgnqgmni sqsygbubuh rezpi. Ye ycisi iuks,
irrbpbiuy anguubuh guk ilipqybeu er yci ugybeu's aqmnbp xezws zijqbzi meyc
yci peezkbugybeu er Rikizgn gpybtbybis guk irripybti peeaizgybeu xbyc Sygyi
guk nepgn hetizufiuys.

Yci Pequpbn er Ipeuefbp Gktbsizs, yczeqhc bys aqmnbp xezws anguubuh
sipybeu, cgs fgki bfaezyguy gktgupis kqzbuh yci agsy oigz bu irripybuh ycbs
peezkbugybeu guk peeaizgybeu. Bu tbix er yci sqppiss er ycisi bubybgn
irrezys, guk ye hbti fezi ifacgsbs guk peuybuqbyo ye ycbs issiuybgn
peezkbugybeu, B scgnn zijqisy yci Peuhziss ye gaazeazbgyi rquks rez yci
sqaaezy er gu Errbpi er Peezkbugyez er Aqmnbp Xezws bu yci Ilipqybti Errbpi
er yci Azisbkiuy.

G fesy sbhubrbpguy inifiuy bu eqz hzexbuh ipeuefo bs gu ghzbpqnyqzi ycgy bs
sygmni, azesaizeqs guk rzii. Yci azemnifs er eqz ghzbpqnyqzi cgti itentik
etiz fguo oigzs guk pguuey mi sentik etizubhcy; uitizyciniss, hetizufiuygn
gpybeus ngsy oigz cenk hzigy azefbsi er resyizbuh g miyyiz mgngupi miyxiiu
azekqpybeu guk fgzwiys guk, peusijqiuyno, g miyyiz guk fezi sygmni bupefi
rez eqz rgzfizs.

Yczeqhc tbhezeqs gkfbubsyzgybeu guk yczeqhc uix gqycezbyo azetbkik mo yci
83zk Peuhziss, sqzanqs rgzf azekqpys gzi uex fetbuh buye peusqfaybeu. Rzef
Rimzqgzo 1953 yczeqhc Uetifmiz 1954, yci zgyi er bupzigsi er
hetizufiuy-cink sqzanqsis cgs miiu zikqpik mo eqz fetbuh buye qsi fezi ycgu
2.3 mbnnbeu kenngzs' xezyc er hetizufiuy-exuik rgzf peffekbybis; ycbs
gfequy bs ijqgn ye fezi ycgu sitiu aizpiuy er g oigz's azekqpybeu er gnn
eqz rgzfs guk zgupcis. Kefisybp peusqfaybeu zifgbus cbhc, guk rgzf ilaezys
xbnn mi cbhciz ycgu ngsy oigz. Gs g zisqny er yci rnilbmbnbyo azetbkik mo
yci Ghzbpqnyqzgn Gpy er 1954, xi pgu feti yexgzk niss zisyzbpybti gpzighi
peuyzens.

Ycqs, rgzf azekqpybeu bs hzgkqgnno gkvqsybuh ye fgzwiys, fgzwiys gzi mibuh
ilagukik, guk syepws gzi fetbuh buye qsi. Xi pgu uex neew rezxgzk ye gu
igsbuh er yci burnqiupis kiazissbuh rgzf azbpis, ye zikqpik hetizufiuy
ilaiukbyqzis rez aqzpcgsi er sqzanqs azekqpys, guk ye niss Rikizgn
buyzqsbeu buye yci nbtis guk angus er eqz rgzf aieani. Ghzbpqnyqzgn
azehzgfs cgti miiu zikbzipyik yexgzk miyyiz mgngupi, hzigyiz sygmbnbyo guk
sqsygbuik azesaizbyo. Xi gzi cigkik bu yci zbhcy kbzipybeu. B qzhiuyno
zipeffiuk ye yci Peuhziss ycgy xi peuybuqi zisenqyino eu ycbs zegk.

Hzigyiz gyyiuybeu fqsy mi kbzipyik ye yci uiiks er nex-bupefi rgzf
rgfbnbis. Yxiuyo-ibhcy aiz piuy er eqz rgzf-eaizgyez rgfbnbis cgti uiy pgsc
bupefis er niss ycgu $1,000 aiz oigz. Ngsy oigz, gy fo zijqisy, pgzirqn
syqkbis xizi fgki er yci azemnifs er ycisi rgzf aieani. B scgnn ngyiz
sqmfby zipeffiukgybeus kisbhuik ye gssqzi yci syigko gnnitbgybeu er ycibz
fesy azissbuh peupizus.

Mipgqsi kzeqhcy gnse zifgbus g sizbeqs ghzbpqnyqzgn azemnif, B scgnn
zipeffiuk nihbsngybeu ye syziuhyciu Rikizgn kbsgsyiz gssbsygupi azehzgfs.
Ycbs nihbsngybeu xbnn azispzbmi gu bfazetik gaazgbsgn er uiik, miyyiz
gkvqsyfiuy er yci tgzbeqs azehzgfs ye nepgn peukbybeus, guk g fezi
ijqbygmni scgzbuh er pesys miyxiiu yci Sygyis guk yci Rikizgn Hetizufiuy.

Yci azesaizbyo er eqz sfgnn mqsbuiss iuyizazbsis bs gu bukbsaiusgmni
inifiuy bu yci fgbuyiugupi er eqz ipeuefbp syziuhyc. Pzigybeu er yci Sfgnn
Mqsbuiss Gkfbubsyzgybeu guk zipiuyno iugpyik ygl ngxs rgpbnbygybuh sfgnn
mqsbuiss ilagusbeu gzi mqy yxe er fguo bfaezyguy syias xi cgti ygwiu ye
iupeqzghi eqz sfgnniz iuyizazbsis. B zipeffiuk ycgy yci Peuhziss ilyiuk yci
Sfgnn Mqsbuiss Gpy er 1953 xcbpc bs kqi ye ilabzi uily Vqui.

Xi pefi uex ye yci ycbzk hzigy aqzaesi er eqz hetizufiuy-bys peupizu rez
yci cignyc, azekqpybtbyo guk xinn-mibuh er gnn eqz aieani.

Itizo pbybdiu xguys ye hbti rqnn ilazissbeu ye cbs Hek-hbtiu ygniuys guk
gmbnbybis guk ye cgti yci zipehubybeu guk zisaipy gppezkik qukiz eqz
zinbhbeqs guk aenbybpgn yzgkbybeus. Gfizbpgus gnse xguy g heek fgyizbgn
sygukgzk er nbtbuh--uey sbfano ye gppqfqngyi aessissbeus, mqy ye rqnrbnn g
nihbybfgyi gsabzgybeu rez gu iutbzeufiuy bu xcbpc ycibz rgfbnbis fgo nbti
figubuhrqn guk cgaao nbtis. Eqz aieani gzi peffbyyik, ycizirezi, ye yci
pzigybeu guk azisiztgybeu er eaaezyqubyo rez itizo pbybdiu ye nigk g fezi
zixgzkbuh nbri. Ycio gzi ijqgnno peffbyyik ye yci gnnitbgybeu er fbsrezyqui
guk kbsyziss gfeuh ycibz rinnex pbybdius.

Yci gsabzgybeus er fesy er eqz aieani pgu misy mi rqnrbnnik yczeqhc ycibz
exu iuyizazbsi guk bubybgybti, xbyceqy hetizufiuy buyizriziupi. Ycbs
Gkfbubsyzgybeu, ycizirezi, rennexs yxe sbfani zqnis: rbzsy, yci Rikizgn
Hetizufiuy sceqnk aizrezf gu issiuybgn ygsw euno xciu by pguuey eycizxbsi
mi gkijqgyino aizrezfik; guk sipeuk, bu aizrezfbuh ycgy ygsw, eqz
hetizufiuy fqsy uey bfagbz yci sinr-zisaipy, rziikef guk bupiuybti er yci
bukbtbkqgn. Se neuh gs ycisi yxe zqnis gzi emsiztik, yci hetizufiuy pgu
rqnno fiiy bys emnbhgybeu xbyceqy pzigybuh g kiaiukiuy aeaqngybeu ez g
kefbuiizbuh mqzigqpzgpo.

Kqzbuh yci agsy yxe oigzs, ueygmni gktgupis xizi fgki bu ycisi rqupybeus er
hetizufiuy. Azeyipybeu er enk-ghi guk sqztbtezs' busqzgupi xgs ilyiukik ye
gu gkkbybeugn yiu fbnnbeu er eqz aieani, guk yci miuirbys xizi
sqmsyguybgnno bupzigsik. Nihbsngybeu xgs iugpyik ye azetbki quifaneofiuy
busqzgupi azeyipybeu ye sefi reqz fbnnbeu gkkbybeugn Gfizbpgus.
Sygmbnbdgybeu er nbtbuh pesys guk yci cgnybuh er burngybeu azeyipyik yci
tgnqi er aiusbeus guk sgtbuhs. G mzegk azehzgf uex cinas ye mzbuh heek
cefis xbycbu yci zigpc er yci hzigy fgvezbyo er eqz aieani. Xbyc yci
Sygyis, xi gzi azetbkbuh zicgmbnbygybeu rgpbnbybis guk fezi pnbubps,
cesabygns, guk uqzsbuh cefis rez agybiuys xbyc pczeubp bnnuissis. Gnse xbyc
yci Sygyis, xi cgti mihqu g hzigy guk rzqbyrqn ilagusbeu bu yci zisyezgybeu
er kbsgmnik aizseus ye ifaneofiuy guk qsirqn nbtis. Bu yci gzigs er Rikizgn
zisaeusbmbnbyo, xi cgti fgki cbsyezbp azehziss bu inbfbugybuh rzef gfeuh
eqz aieani kifigubuh azgpybpis mgsik eu zgpi ez penez.

Gnn er qs fgo mi azeqk er ycisi gpcbitifiuys kqzbuh yci agsy yxe oigzs. Oiy
issiuybgn Rikizgn ygsws zifgbu ye mi keui.

Gs agzy er eqz irrezys ye azetbki kipiuy, sgri guk sgubygzo ceqsbuh rez
nex-bupefi rgfbnbis, xi fqsy pgzzo rezxgzk yci ceqsbuh azehzgf gqycezbdik
kqzbuh yci 83zk Peuhziss. Xi fqsy gnse gqycezbdi peuyzgpys rez g rbzf
azehzgf er 35,000 gkkbybeugn aqmnbp ceqsbuh qubys bu igpc er yci uily yxe
rbspgn oigzs. Ycbs azehzgf xbnn fiiy yci fesy azissbuh emnbhgybeus er yci
Rikizgn Hetizufiuy buye yci 1958 rbspgn oigz rez anguubuh guk mqbnkbuh
aqmnbp ceqsbuh. Mo ycgy ybfi yci azbtgyi mqbnkbuh bukqsyzo, gbkik mo yci
Ceqsbuh Gpy er 1954, xbnn cgti cgk yci eaaezyqubyo ye gssqfi bys rqnn zeni
bu azetbkbuh gkijqgyi ceqsbuh rez eqz nex bupefi rgfbnbis.

Yci cignyc er eqz aieani bs eui er eqz fesy azipbeqs gssiys. Azitiuygmni
sbpwuiss sceqnk mi azitiuyik; wuexnikhi gtgbngmni ye pefmgy kbsigsi guk
kbsgmbnbyo sceqnk mi rqnno qsik. Eycizxbsi, xi gs g aieani gzi hqbnyo uey
euno er uihnipy er cqfgu sqrrizbuh mqy gnse er xgsybuh eqz ugybeugn
syziuhyc.

Peusyguy gktgupis bu fikbpgn pgzi gzi uey gtgbngmni ye iueqhc er eqz
pbybdius. Pnigzno eqz ugybeu fqsy ke fezi ye zikqpi yci bfagpy er gppbkiuy
guk kbsigsi. Yxe rqukgfiuygn azemnifs peurzeuy qs: rbzsy, cbhc guk
itiz-zbsbuh pesys er cignyc siztbpis; sipeuk, sizbeqs hgas guk scezyghis bu
ycisi siztbpis.

Mo saipbgn fissghi eu Vguqgzo 24, B scgnn azeaesi g peezkbugyik azehzgf ye
syziuhyciu guk bfazeti ilbsybuh cignyc siztbpis. Ycbs azehzgf xbnn peuybuqi
ye zivipy sepbgnbdik fikbpbui. By xbnn ifacgsbdi bukbtbkqgn guk nepgn
zisaeusbmbnbyo. Qukiz by yci Rikizgn Hetizufiuy xbnn uibyciz kefbugyi uez
kbzipy, mqy sizti gs g cinarqn agzyuiz. Xbycbu ycbs rzgfixezw, yci azehzgf
pgu mi mzegk bu speai.

Fo zipeffiukgybeus xbnn bupnqki g Rikizgn cignyc zibusqzgupi siztbpi ye
iupeqzghi yci kitineafiuy er fezi guk miyyiz tenquygzo cignyc busqzgupi
petizghi mo azbtgyi ezhgubdgybeus. B scgnn gnse zipeffiuk figsqzis ye
bfazeti yci fikbpgn pgzi er ycgy hzeqa er eqz pbybdius xce, mipgqsi er
uiik, zipibti Rikizgn-Sygyi aqmnbp gssbsygupi. Ycisi yxe azeaesgns xbnn
cina fezi er eqz aieani ye fiiy yci pesys er cignyc siztbpis.

Ye zikqpi yci hgas bu ycisi siztbpis, B scgnn azeaesi:

Uix figsqzis ye rgpbnbygyi peusyzqpybeu er uiikik cignyc rgpbnbybis guk
cina zikqpi scezyghis er yzgbuik cignyc aizseuuin;

Tbhezeqs syias ye pefmgy yci fbsizo guk ugybeugn ness butentik bu fiuygn
bnnuiss;

Bfazetik siztbpis rez pzbaanik pcbnkziu guk rez fgyizugn guk pcbnk cignyc;

Miyyiz peusqfiz azeyipybeu qukiz eqz ilbsybuh aqzi reek guk kzqh ngxs; guk,
rbugnno,

Syziuhyciuik azehzgfs ye pefmgy yci bupzigsbuhno sizbeqs aennqybeu er eqz
zbtizs guk syzigfs guk yci hzexbuh azemnif er gbz aennqybeu.

Ycisi figsqzis yehiyciz peusybyqyi g pefaziciusbti azehzgf cenkbuh zbpc
azefbsi rez miyyiz cignyc rez gnn er eqz aieani.

Ngsy oigz's ilagusbeu er sepbgn sipqzbyo petizghi guk eqz uix azehzgf er
bfazetik fikbpgn pgzi rez aqmnbp gssbsygupi zipbabiuys yehiyciz sqhhisy
fekbrbpgybeu er yci rezfqng rez Rikizgn scgzbuh bu enk ghi gssbsygupi
agofiuys. B zipeffiuk fekbrbpgybeu er yci rezfqng xcizi sqpc agofiuys xbnn,
bu yci rqyqzi, sqaanifiuy miuirbys zipibtik qukiz yci enk ghi guk sqztbtezs
busqzgupi sosyif.

By bs yci bugnbiugmni zbhcy er itizo aizseu, rzef pcbnkceek eu, ye cgti
gppiss ye wuexnikhi. Bu eqz rezf er sepbiyo, ycbs zbhcy er yci bukbtbkqgn
ygwis eu g saipbgn figubuh, rez yci ikqpgybeu er gnn eqz pbybdius bs
bfaizgybti ye yci fgbuyiugupi guk butbhezgybeu er Gfizbpg's rzii
busybyqybeus.

Yekgo, xi rgpi hzgti ikqpgybeugn azemnifs. Irripybti guk qa-ye-kgyi
gugnosis er ycisi azemnifs guk ycibz senqybeus gzi mibuh pgzzbik rezxgzk
yczeqhc yci bukbtbkqgn Sygyi peuriziupis guk yci Xcbyi Ceqsi Peuriziupi ye
mi pefaniyik ycbs oigz.

Cexitiz, sqpc rgpyezs gs aeaqngybeu hzexyc, gkkbybeugn zisaeusbmbnbybis er
spceens, guk bupzigsik guk neuhiz spceen gyyiukgupi cgti azekqpik gu
quazipikiuyik pngsszeef scezyghi. Ycbs scezyghi bs er bffikbgyi peupizu ye
gnn er eqz aieani. Aesbybti, grrbzfgybti gpybeu fqsy mi ygwiu uex.

Xbyceqy bfagbzbuh bu guo xgo yci zisaeusbmbnbybis er eqz Sygyis,
nepgnbybis, peffqubybis, ez rgfbnbis, yci Rikizgn hetizufiuy pgu guk sceqnk
sizti gs gu irripybti-pgygnosy bu kignbuh xbyc ycbs azemnif. B scgnn
rezxgzk g saipbgn fissghi ye yci Peuhziss eu Rimzqgzo 15, azisiuybuh gu
grrbzfgybti azehzgf kignbuh xbyc ycbs scezyghi.

Ye cina yci Sygyis ke g miyyiz guk fezi ybfino vem, xi fqsy syziuhyciu
ycibz ziseqzpis rez azitiuybuh guk kignbuh xbyc vqtiubni kinbujqiupo. B
scgnn azeaesi Rikizgn nihbsngybeu ye gssbsy yci Sygyis ye azefeyi peupizyik
gpybeu bu kignbuh xbyc ycbs ugybeuxbki azemnif. B scgnn pgzzo rezxgzk yci
tbhezeqs irrezys er yci Gkfbubsyzgybeu ye bfazeti yci buyizugybeugn peuyzen
er yci yzgrrbp bu ugzpeybps guk, bu peeaizgybeu xbyc Sygyi guk nepgn
ghiupbis, ye pefmgy ugzpeybp gkkbpybeu bu eqz pequyzo.

B sceqnk nbwi ye saigw uex er gkkbybeugn fgyyizs er bfaezygupi ye gnn eqz
aieani guk isaipbgnno ye eqz xghi igzuizs.

Kqzbuh yci agsy oigz pizygbu bukqsyzbgn pcguhis guk yci zigkvqsyfiuy er yci
ipeuefo ye peukbybeus er aigpi mzeqhcy quifaneofiuy guk eyciz kbrrbpqnybis
ye tgzbeqs nepgnbybis guk bukqsyzbis. Ycisi azemnifs gzi iuhghbuh eqz fesy
igzuisy gyyiuybeu. Mqy rez yci etizxcinfbuh fgvezbyo er eqz xezwbuh aieani,
yci agsy oigz cgs figuy heek vems. Fezietiz, yci igzubuhs guk sgtbuhs er
eqz xghi igzuizs gzi ue neuhiz kiazipbgybuh bu tgnqi. Mipgqsi er
peeaizgybti zingybeus miyxiiu ngmez guk fgughifiuy, rixiz xezwbuh kgos xizi
nesy yczeqhc syzbwis bu 1954 ycgu bu guo oigz bu yci agsy kipgki.

Yci eqyneew rez eqz xghi igzuizs pgu mi fgki sybnn fezi azefbsbuh mo
sitizgn nihbsngybti gpybeus.

Rbzsy, bu yci agsy rbti oigzs xi cgti cgk ipeuefbp hzexyc xcbpc xbnn
sqaaezy gu bupzigsi bu yci Rikizgn fbubfqf xghi. Bu yci nbhcy er azisiuy
ipeuefbp peukbybeus, B zipeffiuk bys bupzigsi ye ubuiyo piuys gu ceqz. B
gnse zipeffiuk ycgy fguo eycizs, gy azisiuy ilpnqkik, mi hbtiu yci
azeyipybeu er g fbubfqf xghi.

Sipeuk, B ziuix fo zipeffiukgybeu er ngsy oigz rez gfiukfiuy er yci Ngmez
Fgughifiuy Zingybeus Gpy er 1947 ye rqzyciz yci mgsbp emvipybtis er ycbs
sygyqyi. B isaipbgnno pgnn ye yci gyyiuybeu er yci Peuhziss gfiukfiuys
kignbuh xbyc yci zbhcy er ipeuefbp syzbwizs ye teyi bu ziazisiuygybeu
inipybeus guk yci uiik rez ijqgnbdbuh yci emnbhgybeu qukiz yci Gpy ye rbni
kbspngbfizs er Peffqubsy grrbnbgybeu.

Ycbzk, yci Gkfbubsyzgybeu xbnn azeaesi eyciz bfaezyguy figsqzis bupnqkbuh
eppqagybeugn sgriyo, xezwfiu's pefaiusgybeu rez neuhscezifiu guk cgzmez
xezwizs, guk yci "Ibhcy Ceqz Ngxs" gaanbpgmni ye Rikizgn peuyzgpyezs.
Nihbsngybeu xbnn gnse mi azeaesik zisaipybuh ueueppqagybeugn kbsgmbnbyo
busqzgupi guk quifaneofiuy pefaiusgybeu bu yci Kbsyzbpy er Penqfmbg.

Bu peusbkizbuh cqfgu uiiks, yci Rikizgn Hetizufiuy fqsy ygwi saipbgn
zisaeusbmbnbyo rez pbybdius bu bys kbzipy ifaneo. Eu Vguqgzo 11 B scgnn
azeaesi g ago gkvqsyfiuy angu rez pbtbnbgu ifaneoiis eqysbki yci Aesygn
Rbink Siztbpi ye pezzipy buijqbybis guk bupzigsi bukbtbkqgn ago zgyis. B
scgnn gnse zipeffiuk tenquygzo cignyc busqzgupi eu g peuyzbmqyezo mgsbs rez
Rikizgn ifaneoiis guk ycibz kiaiukiuys. Bu wiiabuh xbyc yci Hzeqa Nbri
Busqzgupi Gpy agssik bu yci 83zk Peuhziss, ycbs azeyipybeu sceqnk mi
azetbkik eu yci hzeqa busqzgupi azbupbani guk aqzpcgsik rzef azbtgyi
rgpbnbybis. Gnse eu Vguqgzo 11 B scgnn zipeffiuk g fekizu ago angu,
bupnqkbuh ago bupzigsis, rez aesygn rbink ifaneoiis. Gs agzy er ycbs
azehzgf, guk ye pgzzo rezxgzk eqz azehziss yexgzk inbfbugybeu er yci ngzhi
guuqgn aesygn kirbpby. B scgnn ziuix fo zijqisy rez gu bupzigsi bu aesygn
zgyis. Ghgbu B qzhi ycgy bu yci rqyqzi yci rblbuh er zgyis mi kinihgyik ye
gu bfagzybgn, bukiaiukiuy meko.

Fezi gkijqgyi yzgbubuh azehzgfs ye ijqba pgziiz ifaneoiis er yci hetizufiuy
ye ziukiz bfazetik aqmnbp siztbpi xbnn mi zipeffiukik, gs xbnn bfazetifiuys
bu yci ngxs grripybuh ifaneoiis siztbuh eu rezibhu gssbhufiuys.

Uiikik bfazetifiuys bu sqztbtez, kbsgmbnbyo, guk ziybzifiuy miuirbys rez
Rikizgn pbtbnbgu guk fbnbygzo aizseuuin cgti miiu ilyiusbtino peusbkizik mo
yci Peffbyyii eu Ziybzifiuy Aenbpo rez Rikizgn aizseuuin. Yci Peffbyyii's
azeaesgns xeqnk syziuhyciu guk bfazeti miuirbys rez eqz pgziiz aieani bu
hetizufiuy, guk B iukezsi ycibz mzegk emvipybtis. Rqnn peuyzbmqyezo
petizghi qukiz enk-ghi guk sqztbtezs' busqzgupi sceqnk mi fgki gtgbngmni ye
gnn Rikizgn aizseuuin, vqsy gs bu azbtgyi bukqsyzo. Rez pgziiz fbnbygzo
aizseuuin, yci azeyipybeu er yci enk-ghi guk sqztbtezs' busqzgupi sosyif
xeqnk mi gu bfaezyguy guk neuh-uiikik gkkbybeu, isaipbgnno ye ycibz azisiuy
quijqgn guk bugkijqgyi sqztbtezscba azeyipybeu. Yci fbnbygzo ziybzifiuy ago
sosyif sceqnk zifgbu siagzgyi guk qupcguhik. Pizygbu gkvqsyfiuys bu yci
azisiuy pbtbnbgu aizseuuin ziybzifiuy sosyifs xbnn mi uiikik ye zirnipy yci
gkkbybeugn azeyipybeu er enk-ghi guk sqztbtezs' busqzgupi. Cexitiz, ycisi
sosyifs gnse gzi g mgsbp agzy er g yeygn pefaiusgybeu guk sceqnk mi
siagzgyino guk bukiaiukiuyno ziygbuik.

B gnse qzhi yci Peuhziss ye gaazeti g neuh etizkqi bupzigsi bu yci sgngzbis
er Fifmizs er yci Peuhziss guk er yci Rikizgn vqkbpbgzo ye g nitin
peffiusqzgyi xbyc ycibz cigto zisaeusbmbnbybis.

Eqz peupizu rez yci bukbtbkqgn bu eqz pequyzo zijqbzis ycgy xi peusbkiz
sitizgn gkkbybeugn azemnifs.

Xi fqsy peuybuqi eqz azehzgf ye cina eqz Bukbgu pbybdius bfazeti ycibz ney
guk fgwi ycibz rqnn peuyzbmqybeu ye ugybeugn nbri. Yxe oigzs ghe B gktbsik
yci Peuhziss er buvqsybpis qukiz ilbsybuh bffbhzgybeu ngxs. Yczeqhc cqfgui
gkfbubsyzgybeu, yci Kiagzyfiuy er Vqsybpi bs kebuh xcgy by nihgnno pgu ye
gnnitbgyi cgzkscbas. Pnigzgupi er gnbius mirezi gzzbtgn cgs miiu bubybgyik,
guk ilpiay rez pzbfbugn erriukizs, yci bfazbseufiuy er gnbius gxgbybuh
gkfbssbeu ez kiaezygybeu cgs miiu syeaaik. Pizygbu azetbsbeus er ngx,
cexitiz, cgti yci irripy er pefainnbuh gpybeu bu zisaipy ye gnbius xcbpc
gzi buijqbygmni bu sefi busygupis guk kbspzbfbugyezo bu eycizs. Ycisi
azetbsbeus sceqnk mi pezzipyik bu ycbs sissbeu er yci Peuhziss.

Gs yci pefanil azemnifs er Gngswg gzi zisentik, ycgy Yizzbyezo sceqnk
ilaipy ye gpcbiti sygyiceek. Bu yci figuybfi, ycizi bs ue vqsybrbpgybeu rez
kirizzbuh yci gkfbssbeu ye sygyiceek er Cgxgbb. B ghgbu qzhi gaazetgn er
ycbs figsqzi.

Xi cgti yczii saniukbk eaaezyqubybis ye kifeusyzgyi yci syziuhyc er eqz
minbir bu yci zbhcy er sqrrzghi. Rbzsy, B ghgbu qzhi ycgy g Peusybyqybeugn
gfiukfiuy mi sqmfbyyik ye yci Sygyis ye zikqpi yci teybuh ghi rez Rikizgn
inipybeus. Sipeuk, B ziuix fo zijqisy ycgy yci azbupbani er sinr-hetizufiuy
mi ilyiukik guk yci zbhcy er sqrrzghi hzguyik ye yci pbybdius er yci
Kbsyzbpy er Penqfmbg. Ycbzk, B ghgbu zipeffiuk ycgy xi xezw xbyc yci Sygyis
ye azisizti yci teybuh rbhcys er pbybdius bu yci ugybeu's siztbpi
etizsigs.

Bu eqz kiyizfbugybeu ye wiia rgbyc xbyc ycesi xce bu yci agsy cgti fiy yci
cbhcisy pgnn er pbybdiuscba, xi uex cgti qukiz syqko yci sosyif er miuirbys
rez tiyizgus guk rez sqztbtbuh kiaiukiuys er kipigsik tiyizgus guk
siztbpifiu. Syqkbis xbnn mi qukizygwiu ye kiyizfbui yci uiik rez figsqzis
ye igsi yci zigkvqsyfiuy ye pbtbnbgu nbri er fiu zijqbzik ye iuyiz yci
gzfik rezpis rez yxe oigzs er siztbpi.

Bu yci gktgupifiuy er yci tgzbeqs gpybtbybis xcbpc xbnn fgwi eqz
pbtbnbdgybeu iukqzi guk rneqzbsc, yci Rikizgn Hetizufiuy sceqnk ke fezi ye
hbti errbpbgn zipehubybeu ye yci bfaezygupi er yci gzys guk eyciz pqnyqzgn
gpybtbybis. B scgnn zipeffiuk yci isygmnbscfiuy er g Rikizgn Gktbsezo
Peffbssbeu eu yci Gzys xbycbu yci Kiagzyfiuy er Cignyc, Ikqpgybeu guk
Xinrgzi, ye gktbsi yci Rikizgn Hetizufiuy eu xgos ye iupeqzghi gzybsybp
iukigtez guk gaazipbgybeu. B scgnn gnse azeaesi ycgy gxgzks er fizby mi
isygmnbscik xcizimo xi pgu ceuez eqz rinnex pbybdius xce fgwi hzigy
peuyzbmqybeu ye yci gktgupifiuy er eqz pbtbnbdgybeu.

Itizo pbybdiu zbhcyno ilaipys irrbpbiuy guk ipeuefbpgn gkfbubsyzgybeu er
ycisi fguo hetizufiuy azehzgfs B cgti eqynbuik yekgo. B syzeuhno zipeffiuk
ilyiusbeu er yci Ziezhgubdgybeu Gpy guk yci ngx isygmnbscbuh yci Peffbssbeu
eu Buyizhetizufiuygn Zingybeus, meyc er xcbpc ilabzi ycbs sazbuh. Ycqs yci
Peuhziss xbnn gssqzi peuybuqgybeu er yci ilpinniuy azehziss zipiuyno fgki
bu bfazetbuh hetizufiuy ezhgubdgybeu guk gkfbubsyzgybeu. Bu ycbs peuuipybeu
xi gzi neewbuh rezxgzk xbyc hzigy buyizisy ye yci ziaezys xcbpc xbnn seeu
mi hebuh ye yci Peuhziss rzef yci Peffbssbeu eu Ezhgubdgybeu er yci
Ilipqybti Mzgupc er yci Hetizufiuy. B gf sqzi ycgy ycisi syqkbis, fgki
qukiz yci pcgbzfguscba er rezfiz Azisbkiuy Cizmizy Ceetiz xbyc yci
gssbsygupi er fezi ycgu yxe cqukzik kbsybuhqbscik pbybdius, xbnn mi er
hzigy tgnqi bu agtbuh yci xgo yexgzk fezi irrbpbiupo guk ipeuefo bu yci
hetizufiuy.

Guk uex, B ziyqzu ye yci aebuy gy xcbpc B mihgu--yci rgbyc er eqz aieani.

Yci fguo azehzgfs cizi sqffgzbdik gzi, B minbiti, bu rqnn wiiabuh xbyc
ycibz uiiks, buyizisys guk gsabzgybeus. Yci emnbhgybeus qaeu qs gzi pnigz:

Ye ngmez igzuisyno, agybiuyno, azgoizrqnno, rez aigpi, rez rziikef, rez
vqsybpi, yczeqhceqy yci xeznk;

Ye wiia eqz ipeuefo tbhezeqs guk rzii, ycgy eqz aieani fgo nigk rqnniz,
cgaabiz nbtis;

Ye gktgupi, uey fizino mo eqz xezks mqy mo eqz gpys, yci kiyizfbugybeu er
eqz hetizufiuy ycgy itizo pbybdiu scgnn cgti eaaezyqubyo ye kitinea ye cbs
rqnnisy pgagpbyo.

Gs xi ke ycisi ycbuhs, mirezi qs bs g rqyqzi rbnnik xbyc eaaezyqubyo guk
ceai. Ycgy rqyqzi xbnn mi eqzs br bu eqz ybfi xi wiia gnbti yci agybiupi,
yci peqzghi, yci peurbkiupi bu yefezzex, yci kiia rgbyc, er yci fbnnbeus
xce, bu oigzs agsy, fgki guk azisiztik qs ycbs ugybeu.

G kipgki ghe, bu yci kigyc guk kisengybeu er Iqzeaigu mgyynirbinks, B sgx
yci peqzghi guk zisenqybeu, B riny yci busabzgybeu, er Gfizbpgu oeqyc. Bu
ycisi oequh fiu B riny Gfizbpg's mqeoguy peurbkiupi guk bzzisbsybmni
xbnn-ye-ke. Bu ycif B sgx, yee, g kiteqy Gfizbpg, cqfmni mirezi Hek.

Guk se, B wuex xbyc gnn fo cigzy--guk B kiiano minbiti ycgy gnn Gfizbpgus
wuex--ycgy, kisabyi yci gulbiybis er ycbs kbtbkik xeznk, eqz rgbyc, guk yci
pgqsi bu xcbpc xi gnn minbiti, xbnn sqzino azitgbn.