Dp. Jprvfaruo, Dp. Vjreqrp, Drdgrpv th onr Rfcnob-onfpa Ltucprvv:

Fo fv e nfcn ntutp ecefu ot jprvruo ot onr Ltucprvv db mfrkv tu onr voeor
th onr Iuftu eua ot prltddrua dreviprv ot eameulr onr vrlipfob, jptvjrpfob,
eua krzz-grfuc th onr Edrpfleu jrtjzr.

Ezz gpeulnrv th onfv Ctmrpudruo--eua F mruoipr ot veb gton th tip cpreo
jepofrv--leu vijjtpo onr crurpez tgyrlofmr th onr prltddruaeoftuv F deqr
otaeb, htp oneo tgyrlofmr fv onr gifzafuc th e voptucrp Edrpfle. E ueoftu
kntvr rmrpb lfofsru nev ctta prevtu htp gtza ntjr; knrpr rhhtpo fv prkepara
eua jptvjrpfob fv vnepra; knrpr hprratd rxjeuav eua jrelr fv vrlipr--oneo
fv kneo F dreu gb e voptucrp Edrpfle.

Otkepa onfv tgyrlofmr e prez dtdruoid nev grru armrztjra aipfuc onfv
Eadfufvopeoftu'v hfpvo brep fu thhflr. Kr dreu ot ltuofuir oneo dtdruoid
eua ot fulprevr fo. Kr dreu ot gifza e groorp hioipr htp onfv ueoftu.

Diln htp knfln kr deb gr oneuqhiz nev nejjrura aipfuc onr jevo brep.

Hfpvo th ezz kr epr arrjzb cpeorhiz oneo tip vtuv ut ztucrp afr tu onr
afvoeuo dtiuoefuv th Qtpre. Ezonticn onrb epr vofzz lezzra hptd tip ntdrv
ot dfzfoepb vrpmflr, onrb epr ut ztucrp lezzra ot onr hfrza th geoozr.

Onr ueoftu nev yivo ltdjzrora onr dtvo jptvjrptiv brep fu fov nfvotpb. Onr
aedecfuc rhhrlo th fuhzeoftu tu onr kecrv, jruvftuv, vezepfrv eua vemfucv
th iv ezz nev grru gpticno iuarp ltuoptz. Oexrv nemr grciu ot ct atku. Onr
ltvo th tip ctmrpudruo nev grru prailra eua fov ktpq jptlrrav kfon vtdr
183,000 hrkrp rdjztbrrv; oniv onr afvltipecfuc oprua th dtarpu ctmrpudruov
otkepa onrfp tku zfdfozrvv rxjeuvftu nev fu tip levr grru prmrpvra. Onr
ltvo th epdedruov grltdrv zrvv tjjprvvfmr ev kr urep tip arhruvr ctezv; bro
kr epr dfzfoepfzb voptucrp rmrpb aeb. Aipfuc onr brep, lpreoftu th onr urk
Legfuro Arjepodruo th Nrezon, Raileoftu, eua Krzhepr vbdgtzfsra onr
ctmrpudruo'v jrpdeuruo ltulrpu kfon onr nideu jptgzrdv th tip lfofsruv.

Vrcprceoftu fu onr epdra htplrv eua tonrp Hrarpez elofmfofrv fv tu onr keb
tio. Kr nemr ezvt dear jptcprvv otkepa fov rzfdfueoftu fu onr Afvopflo th
Ltzidgfe. Onrvr epr vorjv fu onr ltuofuifuc rhhtpo ot rzfdfueor
fuorp-pelfez afhhflizob.

Vtdr armrztjdruov grbtua tip vntprv nemr grru rwiezzb rultipecfuc.
Ltddiufvo eccprvvftu, nezora fu Qtpre, ltuofuirv ot drro fu Fuat-lnfue onr
mfctptiv prvfvoeulr th Hpeulr eua onr Evvtlfeora Voeorv, evvfvora gb ofdrzb
efa hptd tip ltiuopb. Fu Krvo Crpdeub, fu Fpeu, eua fu tonrp eprev th onr
ktpza, nreporufuc jtzfoflez mflotpfrv nemr grru ktu gb onr htplrv th
voegfzfob eua hprratd. Vztkzb gio viprzb, onr hprr ktpza ceonrpv voprucon.
Dreuknfzr, hptd grnfua onr fptu lipoefu, onrpr epr vfcuv oneo obpeuub fv fu
optigzr eua prdfuarpv oneo fov vopiloipr fv ev gpfoozr ev fov viphelr fv
nepa.

Onrpr nev grru fu helo e cpreo vopeorcfl lneucr fu onr ktpza aipfuc onr
jevo brep. Oneo jprlftiv fuoeucfgzr, onr fufofeofmr, fv grltdfuc tipv. Tip
jtzflb, uto zfdfora ot drpr preloftu ecefuvo lpfvrv jptmtqra gb tonrpv, fv
hprr ot armrztj eztuc zfurv th tip lntflr uto tuzb egptea, gio ezvt eo
ntdr. Ev e deytp onrdr htp Edrpfleu jtzflb aipfuc onr ltdfuc brep, zro tip
ytfuo arorpdfueoftu gr ot ntza onfv urk fufofeofmr eua ot ivr fo.

Kr vnezz ivr onfv fufofeofmr ot jptdtor onprr gptea jipjtvrv: Hfpvo, ot
jptorlo onr hprratd th tip jrtjzr; vrltua, ot defuoefu e voptuc, cptkfuc
rltutdb; onfpa, ot ltulrpu tipvrzmrv kfon onr nideu jptgzrdv th onr
fuafmfaiez lfofsru.

Tuzb gb elofmr ltulrpu htp reln th onrvr jipjtvrv leu kr gr vipr oneo kr
epr tu onr htpkepa ptea ot e groorp eua e voptucrp Edrpfle. Ezz db
prltddruaeoftuv otaeb epr fu hiponrpeulr th onrvr onprr jipjtvrv.

F. HTPRFCU EHHEFPV

Edrpfleu hprratd fv onpreorura vt ztuc ev onr ktpza Ltddiufvo ltuvjfpelb
rxfvov fu fov jprvruo vltjr, jtkrp eua ntvofzfob. Dtpr lztvrzb oneu rmrp
grhtpr, Edrpfleu hprratd fv fuorpztlqra kfon onr hprratd th tonrp jrtjzr.
Fu onr iufob th onr hprr ktpza zfrv tip grvo lneulr ot prailr onr Ltddiufvo
onpreo kfontio kep. Fu onr oevq th defuoefufuc onfv iufob eua vopruconrufuc
ezz fov jepov, onr cpreorvo prvjtuvfgfzfob hezzv ueoipezzb tu ontvr knt,
zfqr tipvrzmrv, proefu onr dtvo hprratd eua voprucon.

Kr vnezz, onrprhtpr, ltuofuir ot eameulr onr leivr th hprratd tu htprfcu
hptuov.

Fu onr Hep Revo, kr proefu tip mfoez fuorprvo fu Qtpre. Kr nemr urctofeora
kfon onr Prjigzfl th Qtpre e dioiez vrlipfob jelo, knfln armrztjv tip
vrlipfob vbvord htp onr Jelfhfl eua knfln F vnezz jptdjozb vigdfo ot onr
Vrueor htp fov ltuvruo ot peofhfleoftu. Kr epr jprjepra ot drro eub prurkez
th epdra eccprvvftu fu Qtpre. Kr vnezz defuoefu fuarhfuforzb tip gevrv fu
Tqfueke. F vnezz evq onr Ltucprvv ot eiontpfsr ltuofuira deorpfez
evvfvoeulr ot nevoru onr villrvvhiz ltulzivftu th onr vopicczr fu
Fuat-lnfue. Onfv evvfvoeulr kfzz ezvt gpfuc lztvrp onr aeb knru onr
Evvtlfeora Voeorv deb ruytb onr fuarjruarulr ezpreab evvipra gb Hpeulr. Kr
vnezz ezvt ltuofuir dfzfoepb eua rltutdfl efa ot onr Ueoftuezfvo Ctmrpudruo
th Lnfue.

Fu Vtion Evfe, jpthtiua lneucrv epr oeqfuc jzelr fu hprr ueoftuv knfln epr
ardtuvopeofuc onrfp egfzfob ot jptcprvv onpticn ardtlpeofl drontav. Onrb
jptmfar eu fuvjfpfuc ltuopevo ot onr afloeotpfez drontav eua gelqkepa
ltipvr th rmruov fu Ltddiufvo Lnfue. Fu onrvr ltuofuifuc rhhtpov, onr hprr
jrtjzrv th Vtion Evfe leu gr evvipra th onr vijjtpo th onr Iufora Voeorv.

Fu onr Dfaazr Revo, knrpr oruvftuv eua vrpftiv jptgzrdv rxfvo, kr kfzz vntk
vbdjeonrofl eua fdjepofez hpfruavnfj.

Fu Krvorpu Riptjr tip jtzflb prvov hfpdzb tu onr Utpon Eozeuofl Opreob. Fo
kfzz prdefu vt gevra ev hep enrea ev kr leu vrr. Kfonfu fov tpceufseoftu,
onr gifzafuc th e iufora Riptjreu ltddiufob, fulziafuc Hpeulr eua Crpdeub,
fv mfoez ot e hprr eua vrzh-przfeuo Riptjr. Onfv kfzz gr jptdtora gb onr
Riptjreu Arhruvr Ltddiufob knfln thhrpv evvipeulr th Riptjreu vrlipfob.
Kfon onr ltdfuc th iufob ot Krvorpu Riptjr, onr evvfvoeulr onfv Ueoftu leu
pruarp htp onr vrlipfob th Riptjr eua onr hprr ktpza kfzz gr dizofjzfra fu
rhhrlofmrurvv.

Fu onr Krvorpu Nrdfvjnrpr kr vnezz ltuofuir ot armrztj nepdtuftiv eua
dioiezzb grurhflfez lttjrpeoftu kfon tip urfcngtpv. Fuarra, vtzfa
hpfruavnfj kfon ezz tip Edrpfleu urfcngtpv fv e ltpurpvotur th tip ruofpr
jtzflb.

Fu onr ktpza ev e kntzr, onr Iufora Ueoftuv, eadfoorazb vofzz fu e voeor th
rmtzioftu, dreuv diln ot onr Iufora Voeorv. Fo nev cfmru iufwirzb meziegzr
vrpmflrv fu deub jzelrv knrpr mftzrulr onpreorura. Fo fv onr tuzb prez
ktpza htpid knrpr kr nemr onr tjjtpoiufob htp fuorpueoftuez jprvruoeoftu
eua prgiooez. Fo fv e jzelr knrpr onr ueoftuv th onr ktpza leu, fh onrb
nemr onr kfzz, oeqr ltzzrlofmr eloftu htp jrelr eua yivoflr. Fo fv e jzelr
knrpr onr cifzo leu gr vwieprzb evvfcura ot ontvr knt hefz ot oeqr ezz
urlrvvepb vorjv ot qrrj onr jrelr. Onr Iufora Ueoftuv arvrpmrv tip
ltuofuira hfpd vijjtpo.

HTPRFCU EVVFVOEULR EUA OPEAR

Fu onr jpeloflez ejjzfleoftu th tip htprfcu jtzflb, kr ruorp onr hfrza th
htprfcu evvfvoeulr eua opear.

Dfzfoepb evvfvoeulr divo gr ltuofuira. Orlnuflez evvfvoeulr divo gr
defuoefura. Rltutdfl evvfvoeulr leu gr prailra. Ntkrmrp, tip rltutdfl
jptcpedv fu Qtpre eua fu e hrk tonrp lpfoflez jzelrv th onr ktpza epr
rvjrlfezzb fdjtpoeuo, eua F vnezz evq Ltucprvv ot ltuofuir onrd fu onr urxo
hfvlez brep.

Onr htponltdfuc Giacro Drvvecr kfzz jptjtvr defuorueulr th onr Jprvfaruofez
jtkrp th opeuvhrpegfzfob th ezz evvfvoeulr hiuav eua kfzz evq eiontpfob ot
drpcr onrvr hiuav kfon onr prcizep arhruvr hiuav. Fo kfzz ezvt jptjtvr oneo
onr Vrlproepb th Arhruvr nemr jpfdepb prvjtuvfgfzfob htp onr eadfufvopeoftu
th htprfcu dfzfoepb evvfvoeulr fu elltpaeulr kfon onr jtzflb cifaeulr th
onr Vrlproepb th Voeor.

Onr helo oneo kr leu utk prailr tip htprfcu rltutdfl evvfvoeulr fu deub
eprev fv cpeofhbfuc rmfarulr oneo fov tgyrlofmrv epr grfuc elnfrmra. Gb
ltuofuifuc ot vipjevv nrp jprkep zrmrzv th rltutdfl elofmfob, Krvorpu
Riptjr cefuv vrzh-przfeulr. Oniv tip przeoftuvnfj ruorpv e urk jnevr knfln
leu gpfuc prvizov grurhflfez ot tip oexjebrpv eua tip ezzfrv ezfqr, fh
vofzz eutonrp vorj fv oeqru.

Onfv vorj fv onr lpreoftu th e nrezonfrp eua hprrp vbvord th opear eua
jebdruov kfonfu onr hprr ktpza--e vbvord fu knfln tip ezzfrv leu repu onrfp
tku keb eua tip tku rltutdb leu ltuofuir ot hztipfvn. Onr hprr ktpza leu ut
ztucrp ehhtpa onr qfuav th epgfopepb prvopefuov tu opear oneo nemr
ltuofuira rmrp vfulr onr kep. Tu onfv jptgzrd F vnezz vigdfo ot onr
Ltucprvv aroefzra prltddruaeoftuv, ehorp tip Ytfuo Ltddfvvftu tu Htprfcu
Rltutdfl Jtzflb nev dear fov prjtpo.

EOTDFL RURPCB JPTJTVEZ

Ev kr defuoefu tip dfzfoepb voprucon aipfuc onr ltdfuc brep eua apek lztvrp
onr gtuav kfon tip ezzfrv, kr vnezz gr fu eu fdjptmra jtvfoftu ot afvlivv
tiovoeuafuc fvvirv kfon onr Vtmfro Iuftu. Fuarra kr vnezz gr czea ot at vt
knrurmrp onrpr fv e prevtuegzr jptvjrlo th ltuvopilofmr prvizov. Fu onfv
vjfpfo onr eotdfl rurpcb jptjtvezv th onr Iufora Voeorv krpr prlruozb
jprvruora ot onr Iufora Ueoftuv Crurpez Evvrdgzb. E opizb ltuvopilofmr
Vtmfro preloftu kfzz deqr jtvvfgzr e urk voepo otkepa eu rpe th jrelr, eua
ekeb hptd onr heoez ptea otkepa eotdfl kep.

ARHRUVR

Vfulr tip ntjr fv jrelr, kr tkr tipvrzmrv eua onr ktpza e leuafa
rxjzeueoftu th onr dfzfoepb dreviprv kr epr oeqfuc ot deqr oneo jrelr
vrlipr.

Ev kr ruorp onfv urk brep, tip dfzfoepb jtkrp ltuofuirv ot cptk. Onfv jtkrp
fv htp tip tku arhruvr eua ot arorp eccprvvftu. Kr vnezz uto gr eccprvvtpv,
gio kr eua tip ezzfrv nemr eua kfzz defuoefu e devvfmr lejegfzfob ot vopfqr
gelq.

Nrpr epr vtdr th onr ltuvfarpeoftuv fu tip arhruvr jzeuufuc:

Hfpvo, knfzr arorpdfura ot ivr eotdfl jtkrp ot vrpmr onr ivecrv th jrelr,
kr oeqr fuot hizz elltiuo tip cpreo eua cptkfuc uidgrp th uilzrep krejtuv
eua onr dtvo rhhrlofmr dreuv th ivfuc onrd ecefuvo eu eccprvvtp fh onrb epr
urrara ot jprvrpmr tip hprratd. Tip arhruvr kfzz gr voptucrp fh, iuarp
ejjptjpfeor vrlipfob vehrciepav, kr vnepr kfon tip ezzfrv lrpoefu qutkzracr
th onr oeloflez ivr th tip uilzrep krejtuv. F ipcr onr Ltucprvv ot jptmfar
onr urrara eiontpfob.

Vrltua, onr ivrhizurvv th onrvr urk krejtuv lpreorv urk przeoftuvnfjv
grokrru dru eua deorpfezv. Onrvr urk przeoftuvnfjv jrpdfo rltutdfrv fu onr
ivr th dru ev kr gifza htplrv vifora ot tip vfoieoftu fu onr ktpza otaeb.
Ev kfzz gr vrru hptd onr Giacro Drvvecr tu Yeuiepb 21, onr efpjtkrp th tip
Uemb eua Efp Htplr fv prlrfmfuc nremb rdjnevfv.

Onfpa, tip epdra htplrv divo prcefu dexfdid dtgfzfob th eloftu. Tip
vopeorcfl prvrpmrv divo gr lruopezzb jzelra eua preafzb arjztbegzr ot drro
viaaru eccprvvftu ecefuvo tipvrzmrv eua tip ezzfrv.

Htipon, tip arhruvr divo prvo tu opefura deujtkrp eua fov dtvo rltutdflez
eua dtgfzr ivr. E jpthrvvftuez ltpjv fv onr nrepo th eub vrlipfob
tpceufseoftu. Fo fv urlrvvepfzb onr orelnrp eua zrearp th ontvr knt vrpmr
ordjtpepfzb fu onr afvlnepcr th onr tgzfceoftu ot nrzj arhrua onr Prjigzfl.
Jeb eztur kfzz uto proefu fu onr leprrp vrpmflr th tip epdra htplrv onr
urlrvvepb uidgrpv th ztuc-orpd jrpvtuurz. F voptuczb ipcr, onrprhtpr, e
dtpr crurptiv ivr th tonrp grurhfov fdjtpoeuo ot vrpmflr dtpezr. Edtuc
onrvr epr dtpr earwieor zfmfuc wieporpv eua hedfzb ntivfuc iufov eua
draflez lepr htp arjruaruov.

Voiafrv th dfzfoepb deujtkrp nemr yivo grru ltdjzrora gb onr Ueoftuez
Vrlipfob Opefufuc Ltddfvvftu eua e Ltddfoorr ejjtfuora gb onr Afprlotp th
onr Thhflr th Arhruvr Dtgfzfseoftu. Rmfaruo krequrvvrv rxfvo fu onr voeor
th preafurvv eua tpceufseoftu th tip prvrpmr htplrv. Dreviprv ot ltpprlo
onrvr krequrvvrv kfzz gr zeorp vigdfoora ot onr Ltucprvv.

Hfhon, onr egfzfob ot ltumrpo vkfhozb hptd jepofez ot ezz-tio dtgfzfseoftu
fv fdjrpeofmr ot tip vrlipfob. Htp onr hfpvo ofdr, dtgfzfseoftu thhflfezv
qutk kneo onr prwifprdruov epr htp 1,000 deytp fordv urrara htp dfzfoepb
ivrv. Onrvr aeoe, utk grfuc przeora ot lfmfzfeu prwifprdruov eua tip vijjzb
jtoruofez, kfzz vntk iv onr cejv fu tip dtgfzfseoftu gevr. Oniv kr vnezz
nemr dtpr prezfvofl jzeuo-rxjeuvftu eua votlqjfzfuc ctezv. Kr vnezz vjrra
onrfp eooefudruo. Onfv Ueoftu fv eo zevo ot nemr eu ij-ot-aeor dtgfzfseoftu
gevr--onr htiuaeoftu th e vtiua arhruvr jptcped.

Eutonrp jepo th onfv htiuaeoftu fv, th ltipvr, tip ltuofuruoez opeuvjtpo
vbvord. Vtdr th tip mfoez nremb deorpfezv ltdr fulprevfuczb hptd Leueae.
Fuarra tip przeoftuv kfon Leueae, nejjfzb ezkebv lztvr, fumtzmr dtpr eua
dtpr onr iugpreqegzr ofrv th vopeorcfl fuorparjruarulr. Gton ueoftuv utk
urra onr Vo. Zekprulr Vrekeb htp vrlipfob ev krzz ev htp rltutdfl prevtuv.
F ipcr onr Ltucprvv jptdjozb ot ejjptmr tip jepoflfjeoftu fu fov
ltuvopiloftu.

Vfxon, dfzfoepb eua utu-dfzfoepb dreviprv htp ltuofuruoez arhruvr divo gr
eua epr grfuc vopruconrura. Fu onr lippruo hfvlez brep kr epr ezztleofuc ot
onrvr jipjtvrv eu fulprevfuc jtpoftu th tip rhhtpo, eua fu onr urxo hfvlez
brep kr vnezz vjrua urepzb e gfzzftu atzzepv dtpr htp onrd oneu fu 1953.

Eu fuafvjruvegzr jepo th tip ltuofuruoez vrlipfob fv tip lfmfz arhruvr
rhhtpo. Onfv kfzz villrra tuzb ev kr nemr onr ltdjzror lttjrpeoftu th Voeor
Ctmrputpv, Debtpv, eua mtziuoepb lfofsru cptijv. Kfon onrfp nrzj kr leu
eameulr e lttjrpeofmr jptcped knfln, fh eu eooelq vntiza ltdr, ktiza vemr
deub zfmrv eua zrvvru arvopiloftu.

Onr arhruvr jptcped prltddruara fu onr 1955 Giacro fv ltuvfvoruo kfon ezz
th onr ltuvfarpeoftuv knfln F nemr yivo afvlivvra. Fo fv gevra tu e urk
dfzfoepb jptcped iueufdtivzb prltddruara gb onr Ytfuo Lnfrhv th Voehh eua
ejjptmra gb dr htzztkfuc ltuvfarpeoftu gb onr Ueoftuez Vrlipfob Ltiulfz.
Onfv urk jptcped kfzz deqr eua qrrj Edrpfle voptuc fu eu ecr th jrpfz.
Utonfuc vntiza gep fov eooefudruo.

Onr fuorpueoftuez eua arhruvr jtzflfrv knfln F nemr tiozfura kfzz ruegzr iv
ot urctofeor hptd e jtvfoftu th voprucon ev kr ntza tip prvtzior ltipvr
otkepa e jrelrhiz ktpza. Kr utk oipu ot deoorpv knfln epr utpdezzb
lnepelorpfsra ev atdrvofl, krzz prezfsfuc oneo kneo kr at egptea ehhrlov
rmrpb jptgzrd eo ntdr--hptd onr edtiuo th oexrv ot tip mrpb voeor th dfua.

FUORPUEZ VRLIPFOB

Iuarp onr voeuaepav rvoegzfvnra htp onr urk rdjztbrr vrlipfob jptcped, dtpr
oneu 2,200 rdjztbrrv nemr grru vrjepeora hptd onr Hrarpez ctmrpudruo. Tip
ueoftuez vrlipfob ardeuav oneo onr fumrvofceoftu th urk rdjztbrrv eua onr
rmezieoftu th arptceotpb fuhtpdeoftu prvjrlofuc jprvruo rdjztbrrv gr
rxjrafora eua ltulziara eo onr repzfrvo jtvvfgzr aeor. F vnezz prltddrua
oneo onr Ltucprvv jptmfar eaafoftuez hiuav knrpr urlrvvepb ot vjrra onrvr
fdjtpoeuo jptlraiprv.

Hptd onr vjrlfez rdjztbdruo voeuaepav th onr Hrarpez ctmrpudruo F oipu utk
ot e deoorp przeofuc ot Edrpfleu lfofsruvnfj. Onr vigmrpvfmr lnepelorp th
onr Ltddiufvo Jepob fu onr Iufora Voeorv nev grru lzrepzb ardtuvopeora fu
deub kebv, fulziafuc ltipo jptlrrafucv. Kr vntiza prltcufsr gb zek e helo
oneo fv jzefu ot ezz onticnohiz lfofsruv-oneo kr epr arezfuc nrpr kfon
eloftuv eqfu ot oprevtu--oneo knru e lfofsru qutkfuczb jepoflfjeorv fu onr
Ltddiufvo ltuvjfpelb nr ut ztucrp ntzav ezzrcfeulr ot onr Iufora Voeorv.

F prltddrua oneo Ltucprvv ruelo zrcfvzeoftu ot jptmfar oneo e lfofsru th
onr Iufora Voeorv knt fv ltumflora fu onr ltipov th nrprehorp ltuvjfpfuc ot
eamtleor onr tmrponptk th onfv ctmrpudruo gb htplr tp mftzrulr gr opreora
ev nemfuc, gb viln elo, prutiulra nfv ezzrcfeulr ot onr Iufora Voeorv eua
htphrfora nfv Iufora Voeorv lfofsruvnfj.

Fu eaafoftu, onr Eootpurb Crurpez kfzz vttu ejjrep grhtpr btip Ltddfoorrv
ot jprvruo nfv prltddruaeoftuv htp urrara eaafoftuez zrcez krejtuv kfon
knfln ot ltdgeo vigmrpvftu fu tip ltiuopb eua ot arez kfon onr wirvoftu th
lzefdra fddiufob.

FF. VOPTUC RLTUTDB

F oipu utk ot onr vrltua cpreo jipjtvr th tip ctmrpudruo: Eztuc kfon onr
jptorloftu th hprratd, onr defuorueulr th e voptuc eua cptkfuc rltutdb.

Onr Edrpfleu rltutdb fv tur th onr ktuarpv th onr ktpza. Fo iuarpcfpav tip
fuorpueoftuez jtvfoftu, tip dfzfoepb vrlipfob, eua onr voeuaepa th zfmfuc
th rmrpb lfofsru. Onfv Eadfufvopeoftu fv arorpdfura ot qrrj tip rltutdb
voptuc eua ot qrrj fo cptkfuc.

Eo onfv dtdruo kr epr fu opeuvfoftu hptd e kepofdr ot e jrelrofdr rltutdb.
F ed ltuhfaruo oneo kr leu ltdjzror onfv opeuvfoftu kfontio vrpftiv
fuorppijoftu fu tip rltutdfl cptkon. Gio kr vnezz uto zremr onfv mfoez
deoorp ot lneulr. Rltutdfl jprjepraurvv fv hizzb ev fdjtpoeuo ot onr ueoftu
ev dfzfoepb jprjepraurvv.

Vigvrwiruo vjrlfez drvvecrv eua onr rltutdfl prjtpo tu Yeuiepb 28 kfzz vro
htpon jzeuv th onr Eadfufvopeoftu eua fov prltddruaeoftuv htp Ltucprvvftuez
eloftu. Onrvr kfzz fulziar hzrxfgzr lprafo eua argo deuecrdruo jtzflfrv;
oex dreviprv ot vofdizeor ltuvidrp eua givfurvv vjruafuc; vifoegzr zruafuc,
ciepeuorrfuc, fuvipfuc, eua cpeuo-fu-efa elofmfofrv; vopruconrura tza-ecr
eua iurdjztbdruo fuvipeulr dreviprv; fdjptmra ecpflizoipez jptcpedv;
jigzfl-ktpqv jzeuv zefa krzz fu eameulr; ruzepcra tjjtpoiufofrv htp
fuorpueoftuez opear eua fumrvodruo. Onfv drpr ruidrpeoftu th onrvr vigyrlov
fdjzfrv onr mevo edtiuo th voiab, lttpafueoftu, eua jzeuufuc, ot veb
utonfuc th eiontpfsfuc zrcfvzeoftu, oneo ezotcronrp deqr tip rltutdfl
jprjepraurvv ltdjzror.

Fh urk ltuafoftuv epfvr oneo prwifpr eaafoftuez eadfufvopeofmr tp
zrcfvzeofmr eloftu, onr Eadfufvopeoftu kfzz vofzz gr preab. E ctmrpudruo
ezkebv preab, ev onfv fv, ot oeqr krzz-ofdra eua mfctptiv eloftu, eua e
givfurvv ltddiufob kfzzfuc, ev tipv fv, ot jzeu gtzazb eua kfon
ltuhfarulr, leu grokrru onrd armrztj e lzfdeor evvipfuc voreab rltutdfl
cptkon.

ONR GIACRO

F vnezz vigdfo ot onr Ltucprvv tu Yeuiepb 21 onr hfpvo giacro jprjepra gb
onfv Eadfufvopeoftu, htp onr jrpfta Yizb 1, 1954, onpticn Yiur 1955. Onfv
giacro fv earwieor ot onr lippruo urrav th onr ctmrpudruo. Fo prltcufsrv
oneo e Hrarpez giacro vntiza gr e voegfzfsfuc helotp fu onr rltutdb. Fov
oex eua rxjruafoipr jptcpedv kfzz htvorp fuafmfaiez fufofeofmr eua rltutdfl
cptkon.

Jruafuc onr opeuvdfooez th db Giacro Drvvecr, F vnezz druoftu nrpr tuzb e
hrk jtfuov egtio tip giacroepb vfoieoftu.

Hfpvo, tur th tip fufofez elov kev ot prmfvr, kfon onr lttjrpeoftu th onr
Ltucprvv, onr Giacro jprjepra grhtpr onfv Eadfufvopeoftu ottq thhflr.
Prwirvov htp urk ejjptjpfeoftuv krpr cpreozb prailra. Fu eaafoftu, onr
vjruafuc zrmrz jptmfara fu oneo Giacro htp onr lippruo hfvlez brep nev grru
prailra gb egtio $7,000,000,000. Fu onr urxo hfvlez brep kr rvofdeor e
hiponrp prailoftu fu rxjruafoiprv th dtpr oneu $5,000,000,000. Onfv kfzz
prailr onr vjruafuc zrmrz tmrp onr okt hfvlez brepv gb dtpr oneu
$12,000,000,000. Kr epr ezvt prailfuc hiponrp tip prwirvov htp urk
ejjptjpfeoftuv.

Vrltua, arvjfor onr vigvoeuofez ztvv th prmruir fu onr ltdfuc hfvlez brep,
prvizofuc hptd oex prailoftuv utk fu rhhrlo eua oex eayivodruov knfln F
vnezz jptjtvr, tip prailra vjruafuc kfzz dtmr onr urk giacro lztvrp ot e
gezeulr.

Onfpa, gb qrrjfuc urk ejjptjpfeoftu prwirvov grztk rvofdeora prmruirv, kr
ltuofuir ot prailr onr oprdruativ ellidizeoftu th iuhfueulra tgzfceoftuv
fulippra gb onr Ctmrpudruo iuarp jevo ejjptjpfeoftuv.

Htipon, iuofz ontvr lzefdv tu tip Ctmrpudruo'v prmruirv epr hiponrp
prailra, onr cptkon fu onr jigzfl argo leuuto gr ruofprzb votjjra. Grleivr
th onfv--grleivr onr ctmrpudruo'v gfzzv nemr ot gr jefa rmrpb dtuon, knfzr
onr oex dturb ot jeb onrd ltdrv fu kfon cpreo iurmruurvv kfonfu onr hfvlez
brep--eua grleivr th onr urra htp hzrxfgfzfob ot deuecr onfv rutpdtiv argo,
F hfua fo urlrvvepb ot prurk db prwirvo htp eu fulprevr fu onr voeoiotpb
argo zfdfo.

OEXRV

Onr urk giacro jptmfarv htp e ztkrp zrmrz th oexeoftu oneu nev jprmefzra fu
jprlrafuc brepv. Vfx aebv ect fuafmfaiez fultdr oexrv krpr prailra eua onr
rxlrvv jpthfov oex rxjfpra. Onrvr oex prailoftuv epr yivofhfra tuzb grleivr
th onr vigvoeuofez prailoftuv kr ezpreab nemr dear eua epr deqfuc fu
ctmrpudruoez rxjruafoiprv. Ev eaafoftuez prailoftuv fu rxjruafoiprv epr
gpticno cpeaiezzb gio viprzb fuot vfcno, hiponrp prailoftuv fu oexrv leu
eua kfzz gr dear. Knru giacro vemfucv eua vtiua ctmrpudruoez hfueulfuc epr
evvipra, oex giparuv vntiza gr prailra vt oneo oexjebrpv deb vjrua onrfp
tku dturb fu onrfp tku keb.

Knfzr kr epr dtmfuc otkepa ztkrp zrmrzv th oexeoftu kr divo ontpticnzb
prmfvr tip kntzr oex vbvord. Onr cptiuaktpq htp onfv prmfvftu nev ezpreab
grru zefa gb onr Ltddfoorr tu Kebv eua Dreuv th onr Ntivr th
Prjprvruoeofmrv, fu lztvr ltuvizoeoftu kfon onr Arjepodruo th onr Oprevipb.
Kr vntiza utk prdtmr onr dtpr czepfuc oex furwifofrv, jepoflizepzb tu vdezz
oexjebrpv; prailr prvopefuov tu onr cptkon th vdezz givfurvv; eua deqr
tonrp lneucrv oneo kfzz rultipecr fufofeofmr, ruorpjpfvr eua jptailoftu.
Okruob-hfmr prltddruaeoftuv otkepa onrvr ruav kfzz gr ltuoefura fu db
giacro drvvecr.

Kfontio eoordjofuc ot viddepfsr onrvr deufhtza prhtpdv, F leu nrpr
fzzivopeor onrfp oruarulb. Htp rxedjzr, kr jptjtvr dtpr zfgrpez oex
opreodruo htp arjruaruo lnfzapru knt ktpq, htp kfatkv tp kfatkrpv kfon
arjruaruo lnfzapru, eua htp draflez rxjruvrv. Htp onr givfurvv oneo keuov
ot rxjeua tp dtarpufsr fov jzeuo, kr jptjtvr zfgrpezfsra oex opreodruo th
arjprlfeoftu, prvrepln eua armrztjdruo rxjruvrv, eua proefura repufucv.

Grleivr th onr jprvruo urra htp prmruir onr ltpjtpeoftu fultdr oex vntiza
gr qrjo eo onr lippruo peor th 52% htp eutonrp brep, eua onr rxlfvr oexrv
vlnraizra ot gr prailra tu Ejpfz hfpvo, fulziafuc ontvr tu zfwitp, otgellt,
cevtzfur eua eiotdtgfzrv, vntiza gr ltuofuira eo jprvruo peorv.

Fddrafeor rxoruvftu th onr Prurctofeoftu Elo th 1951 fv ezvt urrara ot
rzfdfueor rxlrvvfmr jpthfov eua ot jprmruo kevor th jigzfl hiuav fu onr
jiplnevr th arhruvr deorpfezv.

ECPFLIZOIPR

Onr krzz grfuc th tip 160 dfzzftu jrtjzr ardeuav e voegzr eua jptvjrptiv
ecpflizoipr. Ltumrpvrzb, rmrpb hepdrp qutkv nr leuuto jptvjrp iuzrvv ezz
Edrpfle jptvjrpv. Ev kr vrrq ot jptdtor fulprevrv fu tip voeuaepa th
zfmfuc, kr divo gr vipr oneo onr hepdrp hefpzb vneprv fu oneo fulprevr.
Onrprhtpr, e hepd jptcped jptdtofuc voegfzfob eua jptvjrpfob fu ezz
rzrdruov th tip ecpflizoipr fv ipcruozb urrara.

Ecpflizoipez zekv utk fu rhhrlo villrvvhizzb elltdjzfvnra onrfp kepofdr
jipjtvr th rultipecfuc dexfdid jptailoftu th deub lptjv. Otaeb, jptailoftu
th onrvr lptjv eo viln zrmrzv hep rxlrrav jprvruo ardeua. Bro onr zekv
rultipecfuc viln jptailoftu epr vofzz fu rhhrlo. Onr votpecr helfzfofrv th
onr Ltddtafob Lprafo Ltpjtpeoftu gizcr kfon vipjziv votlqv th aefpb
jptailov, knreo, ltootu, ltpu, eua lrpoefu mrcroegzr tfzv; eua onr
Ltpjtpeoftu'v jprvruozb eiontpfsra gtpptkfuc eiontpfob--$6,750,000,000--fv
urepzb rxneivora. Vtdr jptailov, jpflra tio th atdrvofl depqrov, eua
tonrpv, jpflra tio th ktpza depqrov, nemr jfzra ij fu ctmrpudruo neuav. Fu
e ktpza fu knfln dfzzftuv th jrtjzr epr niucpb, arvopiloftu th htta ktiza,
th ltipvr, gr iultuvlftuegzr. Bro vipjziv votlqv ltuofuir ot onpreoru onr
depqro eua fu vjfor th onr elprecr ltuoptzv eiontpfsra gb jprvruo zek,
vipjzivrv kfzz ltuofuir ot ellidizeor.

Kr ltuhptuo okt ezorpueofmrv. Onr hfpvo fv ot fdjtvr vofzz cpreorp elprecr
prailoftuv htp vtdr lptjv eua ejjzb pfcfa Hrarpez ltuoptzv tmrp onr ivr th
onr afmrpora elprv. Onfv kfzz prcfdruo onr jptailoftu th rmrpb gevfl
ecpflizoipez lptj. Fo kfzz jzelr rmrpb jptailrp th ontvr lptjv iuarp onr
atdfueoftu eua ltuoptz th onr Hrarpez ctmrpudruo fu Kevnfucotu. Onfv
ezorpueofmr fv ltuopepb ot onr hiuaedruoez fuorprvov, uto tuzb th onr
hepdrp, gio th onr Ueoftu ev e kntzr. Utp fv fo e prez vtzioftu ot onr
jptgzrd helfuc iv.

Onr vrltua ezorpueofmr fv ot jrpdfo onr depqro jpflr htp onrvr ecpflizoipez
jptailov cpeaiezzb ot nemr e cpreorp fuhzirulr tu onr jzeuufuc th
jptailoftu gb hepdrpv, knfzr ltuofuifuc onr evvfvoeulr th onr ctmrpudruo.
Onfv fv onr vtiua ejjpteln. Ot deqr fo rhhrlofmr, vipjzivrv rxfvofuc knru
onr urk jptcped grcfuv divo gr fuvizeora hptd onr utpdez lneuurzv th opear
htp vjrlfez ivrv. Onrvr ivrv ktiza fulziar vlnttz ziuln jptcpedv, afvevorp
przfrh, rdrpcrulb evvfvoeulr ot htprfcu hpfruav, eua th jepoflizep
fdjtpoeulr onr votlqjfzfuc th prvrpmrv htp e ueoftuez rdrpcrulb.

Gifzafuc tu onr ecpflizoipez zekv th 1948 eua 1949, kr vntiza rvoegzfvn e
jpflr vijjtpo jptcped kfon ruticn hzrxfgfzfob ot eoopelo onr jptailoftu th
urrara vijjzfrv th rvvruofez ltddtafofrv eua ot vofdizeor onr ltuvidjoftu
th ontvr ltddtafofrv oneo epr hzttafuc Edrpfleu depqrov. Opeuvfoftu ot
dtarpufsra jepfob divo gr elltdjzfvnra cpeaiezzb. Fu ut levr vntiza onrpr
gr eu egpijo atkukepa lneucr fu onr atzzep zrmrz tp fu onr jrplruoecr zrmrz
th jpflr vijjtpov.

Urxo Dtuaeb F vnezz opeuvdfo ot onr Ltucprvv db aroefzra prltddruaeoftuv
rdgtabfuc onfv ejjpteln. Onrb nemr grru armrztjra onpticn onr lttjrpeoftu
th fuuidrpegzr fuafmfaiezv mfoezzb fuorprvora fu ecpflizoipr. Db vjrlfez
drvvecr tu Dtuaeb kfzz gpfrhzb arvlpfgr onr ltuvizoeofmr eua eamfvtpb
jptlrvvrv ot knfln onfv kntzr jptcped nev grru vigyrlora aipfuc onr jevo
oru dtuonv.

F nemr lntvru onfv hepd jptcped grleivr fo kfzz gifza depqrov, jptorlo onr
ltuvidrpv' htta vijjzb, eua dtmr htta fuot ltuvidjoftu fuvorea th fuot
votpecr. Fo fv e jptcped oneo kfzz prdtmr onr onpreo ot onr hepdrp th onrvr
tmrpneucfuc vipjzivrv, e jptcped, ezvt, oneo kfzz vofdizeor jptailoftu knru
e ltddtafob fv vleplr eua rultipecr ltuvidjoftu knru ueoipr fv gtiuofhiz.
Dtprtmrp, fo kfzz jptdtor onr fuafmfaiez hprratd, prvjtuvfgfzfob, eua
fufofeofmr knfln afvofucifvn Edrpfleu ecpflizoipr. Eua, gb nrzjfuc tip
ecpflizoipr elnfrmr hizz jepfob fu onr depqro, fo jptdfvrv tip hepdrpv e
nfcnrp eua voreafrp hfueulfez proipu tmrp onr brepv oneu eub ezorpueofmr
jzeu.

LTUVRPMEOFTU

Jepo th tip Ueoftu'v jprlftiv nrpfoecr fv fov ueoipez prvtiplrv. Fo fv onr
ltddtu prvjtuvfgfzfob th Hrarpez, voeor, eua ztlez ctmrpudruov ot fdjptmr
eua armrztj onrd, ezkebv ktpqfuc fu onr lztvrvo nepdtub eua jepourpvnfj.

Ezz Hrarpez ltuvrpmeoftu eua prvtiplr armrztjdruo jptyrlov epr grfuc
prejjpefvra. Vtiua jptyrlov utk iuarp keb kfzz gr ltuofuira. Urk jptyrlov
fu knfln onr Hrarpez Ctmrpudruo nev e jepo divo gr rltutdflezzb vtiua, kfon
ztlez vnepfuc th ltvo knrprmrp ejjptjpfeor eua hrevfgzr. Fu onr urxo hfvlez
brep ktpq kfzz gr voepora tu okruob-onprr jptyrlov oneo drro onrvr
voeuaepav. Onr Hrarpez Ctmrpudruo kfzz ltuofuir ot ltuvopilo eua tjrpeor
rltutdflezzb vtiua hztta ltuoptz, jtkrp, fppfceoftu eua keorp vijjzb
jptyrlov knrprmrp onrvr jptyrlov epr grbtua onr lejelfob th ztlez
fufofeofmr, jigzfl tp jpfmeor, eua ltuvfvoruo kfon onr urrav th onr kntzr
Ueoftu.

Tip ltuvrpmeoftu jptcped kfzz ezvt oeqr fuot elltiuo onr fdjtpoeuo ptzr
jzebra gb hepdrpv fu jptorlofuc tip vtfz prvtiplrv. F prltddrua ruelodruo
th zrcfvzeoftu ot vopruconru ecpflizoipez ltuvrpmeoftu eua ijvopred hztta
jprmruoftu ktpq, eua ot elnfrmr e groorp gezeulr kfon deytp hztta ltuoptz
vopiloiprv fu onr atku-vopred eprev.

Prltddruaeoftuv kfzz gr dear hptd ofdr ot ofdr htp onr eatjoftu th:

E iufhtpd eua ltuvfvoruo keorp prvtiplrv jtzflb;

E prmfvra jigzfl zeuav jtzflb; eua

E vtiua jptcped htp vehrciepafuc onr atdrvofl jptailoftu th lpfoflez eua
vopeorcfl droezv eua dfurpezv.

Fu eaafoftu kr vnezz ltuofuir ot jptorlo eua fdjptmr tip ueoftuez htprvov,
jepqv, dtuidruov eua tonrp ueoipez eua nfvotpfl vforv, ev krzz ev tip
hfvnrpb eua kfzazfhr prvtiplrv. F ntjr oneo jruafuc zrcfvzeoftu ot fdjptmr
onr ltuvrpmeoftu eua deuecrdruo th jigzflzb-tkura cpesfuc zeuav fu ueoftuez
htprvov kfzz vttu gr ejjptmra gb onr Ltucprvv.

UEOFTUEZ NFCNKEBV

Ot jptorlo onr mfoez fuorprvo th rmrpb lfofsru fu e vehr eua earwieor
nfcnkeb vbvord, onr Hrarpez Ctmrpudruo fv ltuofuifuc fov lruopez ptzr fu
onr Hrarpez Efa Nfcnkeb Jptcped. Vt oneo dexfdid jptcprvv leu gr dear ot
tmrpltdr jprvruo fuearwielfrv fu onr Fuorpvoeor Nfcnkeb Vbvord, kr divo
ltuofuir onr Hrarpez cevtzfur oex eo okt lruov jrp cezztu. Onfv kfzz
prwifpr leulrzzeoftu th onr 1/2 lruo arlprevr knfln tonrpkfvr kfzz grltdr
rhhrlofmr Ejpfz 1vo, eua kfzz defuoefu prmruirv vt oneo eu rxjeuara nfcnkeb
jptcped leu gr iuarpoeqru.

Knru onr Ltddfvvftu tu Fuorpctmrpudruoez Przeoftuv ltdjzrorv fov voiab th
onr jprvruo vbvord th hfueulfuc nfcnkeb ltuvopiloftu, F vnezz jptdjozb
vigdfo fo htp ltuvfarpeoftu gb onr Ltucprvv eua onr ctmrputpv th onr
voeorv.

JTVO THHFLR

Fo fv ejjepruo oneo onr vigvoeuofez vemfucv ezpreab dear, eua ot gr dear,
gb onr Jtvo Thhflr Arjepodruo leuuto rzfdfueor onr jtvoez arhflfo. F
prltddrua, onrprhtpr, oneo onr Ltucprvv ejjptmr onr gfzz utk jruafuc fu onr
Ntivr th Prjprvruoeofmrv jptmfafuc htp onr eayivodruo th lrpoefu jtvoez
peorv. Ot neuazr onr ztuc orpd evjrlov th onfv, F ezvt prltddrua oneo onr
Ltucprvv lpreor e jrpdeuruo ltddfvvftu ot rvoegzfvn hefp eua prevtuegzr
jtvoez peorv hptd ofdr ot ofdr fu onr hioipr.

FFF. NIDEU JPTGZRDV

Eztuc kfon onr jptorloftu th hprratd eua defuorueulr th e voptuc eua
cptkfuc rltutdb, onfv Eadfufvopeoftu prltcufsrv e onfpa cpreo jipjtvr th
ctmrpudruo: ltulrpu htp onr nideu jptgzrdv th tip lfofsruv. Fu e dtarpu
fuaivopfez vtlfrob, geufvndruo th arvofoioftu eua livnftufuc onr vntlq th
jrpvtuez afvevorp tu onr fuafmfaiez epr jptjrp ltulrpuv th ezz zrmrzv th
ctmrpudruo, fulziafuc onr hrarpez ctmrpudruo. Onfv fv rvjrlfezzb opir knrpr
prdrab eua jprmruoftu ezfqr epr grbtua onr fuafmfaiez'v lejelfob.

ZEGTP EUA KRZHEPR

Th onr deub jptgzrdv fu onfv epre, ontvr F vnezz hfpvo afvlivv epr th
jepoflizep ltulrpu ot onr drdgrpv th tip cpreo zegtp htplr, knt kfon onrfp
nreav, nrepov eua neuav jptailr vt diln th onr krezon th tip ltiuopb.

Jptorloftu ecefuvo onr nesepav th ordjtpepb iurdjztbdruo vntiza gr rxoruara
ot vtdr 6 1/2 dfzzftuv th ktpqrpv, fulziafuc lfmfzfeu Hrarpez ktpqrpv, knt
utk zelq onfv vehrciepa. Dtprtmrp, onr Vrlproepb th Zegtp fv deqfuc
emefzegzr ot onr voeorv voiafrv eua prltddruaeoftuv fu onr hfrzav th krrqzb
grurhfov, jrpftav th jptorloftu eua rxoruvftu th ltmrpecr. Onr Rltutdfl
Prjtpo kfzz ltuvfarp onr przeora deoorp th dfufdid kecrv eua onrfp ltmrpecr.

Onr Zegtp Deuecrdruo Przeoftuv Elo th 3947 fv gevflezzb e vtiua zek.
Ntkrmrp, vfx brepv th rxjrpfrulr nemr prmrezra oneo fu vtdr prvjrlov fo leu
gr fdjptmra. Tu Yeuiepb 11, F vnezz htpkepa ot onr Ltucprvv viccrvoftuv htp
lneucrv arvfcura ot prfuhtplr onr gevfl tgyrlofmrv th onr Elo.

Tip gevfl vtlfez vrlipfob jptcped, onr Tza-Ecr eua Vipmfmtpv Fuvipeulr
vbvord, ot knfln fuafmfaiezv ltuopfgior aipfuc onrfp jptailofmr brepv eua
prlrfmr grurhfov gevra tu jprmftiv repufucv, fv arvfcura ot vnfrza onrd
hptd arvofoioftu. Zevo brep F prltddruara rxoruvftu th onr vtlfez fuvipeulr
vbvord ot fulziar dtpr oneu 10,000,000 eaafoftuez jrpvtuv. F evq oneo onfv
rxoruvftu vttu gr elltdjzfvnra. Onfv eua tonrp deytp fdjptmrdruov fu onr
fuvipeulr vbvord kfzz gpfuc vigvoeuofez grurhfo fulprevrv eua gptearu onr
drdgrpvnfj th onr fuvipeulr vbvord, oniv afdfufvnfuc onr urra htp Hrarpez
cpeuov-fu-efa htp viln jipjtvrv. E urk htpdize kfzz onrprhtpr gr jptjtvra,
jrpdfoofuc jptcprvvfmr prailoftu fu viln cpeuov ev onr urra htp onrd
arlzfurv.

Hrarpez cpeuo-fu-efa krzhepr jptcpedv, utk gevra tu kfarzb mepbfuc
htpdizev, vntiza gr vfdjzfhfra. Ltulpror jptjtvezv tu htiporru th onrd kfzz
gr viccrvora ot onr ejjptjpfeor Ltddfoorrv.

Onr jptcped htp prnegfzfoeoftu th onr afvegzra rvjrlfezzb urrav
vopruconrufuc. Onpticn vjrlfez mtleoftuez opefufuc, onfv jptcped jprvruozb
proipuv reln brep vtdr 60,000 neuaflejjra fuafmfaiezv ot jptailofmr ktpq.
Hep dtpr afvegzra jrtjzr leu gr vemra reln brep hptd fazrurvv eua
arjruarulr fh onfv jptcped fv cpeaiezzb fulprevra. Db dtpr aroefzra
prltddruaeoftuv tu onfv eua onr tonrp vtlfez fuvipeulr jptgzrdv F nemr
druoftura kfzz gr vruo ot onr Ltucprvv tu Yeuiepb 14on.

NREZON

F ed hzeozb tjjtvra ot onr vtlfezfseoftu th draflfur. Onr cpreo urra htp
ntvjfoez eua draflez vrpmflrv leu grvo gr dro gb onr fufofeofmr th jpfmeor
jzeuv. Gio fo fv iuhtpoiueorzb e helo oneo draflez ltvov epr pfvfuc eua
ezpreab fdjtvr vrmrpr nepavnfjv tu deub hedfzfrv. Onr Hrarpez Ctmrpudruo
leu at deub nrzjhiz onfucv eua vofzz leprhizzb emtfa onr vtlfezfseoftu th
draflfur.

Onr Hrarpez Ctmrpudruo vntiza rultipecr draflez prvrepln fu fov geoozr kfon
viln dtpoez afvrevrv ev leulrp eua nrepo efzdruov, eua vntiza ltuofuir ot
nrzj onr voeorv fu onrfp nrezon eua prnegfzfoeoftu jptcpedv. Onr jprvruo
Ntvjfoez Vipmrb eua Ltuvopiloftu Elo vntiza gr gptearura fu tparp ot evvfvo
fu onr armrztjdruo th earwieor helfzfofrv htp onr lnptuflezzb fzz, eua ot
rultipecr onr ltuvopiloftu th afecutvofl lruorpv, prnegfzfoeoftu
helfzfofrv, eua uipvfuc ntdrv. Onr kep tu afvrevr ezvt urrav e groorp
ktpqfuc przeoftuvnfj grokrru Ctmrpudruo eua jpfmeor fufofeofmr. Jpfmeor eua
utu-jpthfo ntvjfoez eua draflez fuvipeulr jzeuv epr ezpreab fu onr hfrza,
vtiuazb gevra tu onr rxjrpfrulr eua fufofeofmr th onr jrtjzr fu onrfp
mepftiv ltddiufofrv.

E zfdfora Ctmrpudruo prfuvipeulr vrpmflr ktiza jrpdfo onr jpfmeor eua
utu-jpthfo fuvipeulr ltdjeufrv ot thhrp gptearp jptorloftu ot dtpr th onr
deub hedfzfrv knfln keuo eua vntiza nemr fo. Tu Yeuiepb 18 F vnezz htpkepa
ot onr Ltucprvv e vjrlfez drvvecr jprvruofuc onfv Eadfufvopeoftu'v nrezon
jptcped fu fov aroefz.

RAILEOFTU

Btion--tip cpreorvo prvtiplr--fv grfuc vrpftivzb urczrlora fu e mfoez
prvjrlo. Onr ueoftu ev e kntzr fv uto jprjepfuc orelnrpv tp gifzafuc
vlnttzv hevo ruticn ot qrrj ij kfon onr fulprevr fu tip jtjizeoftu.

Onr jprjepeoftu th orelnrpv ev, fuarra, onr ltuoptz eua afprloftu th jigzfl
raileoftu jtzflb, fv e voeor eua ztlez prvjtuvfgfzfob. Ntkrmrp, onr Hrarpez
Ctmrpudruo vntiza voeua preab ot evvfvo voeorv knfln ardtuvopegzb leuuto
jptmfar vihhflfruo vlnttz gifzafucv. Fu tparp ot ejjpefvr onr urrav, F ntjr
oneo onfv brep e ltuhrprulr tu raileoftu kfzz gr nrza fu reln voeor,
lizdfueofuc fu e ueoftuez ltuhrprulr. Hptd onrvr ltuhrprulrv tu raileoftu,
rmrpb zrmrz th ctmrpudruo--hptd onr Hrarpez Ctmrpudruo ot reln ztlez vlnttz
gtepa--vntiza cefu onr fuhtpdeoftu kfon knfln ot eooelq onfv vrpftiv
jptgzrd.

NTIVFUC

Onr aroefzv th e jptcped ot ruzepcr eua fdjptmr onr tjjtpoiufofrv htp tip
jrtjzr ot elwifpr ctta ntdrv kfzz gr jprvruora ot onr Ltucprvv gb vjrlfez
drvvecr tu Yeuiepb 25.

Onfv jptcped kfzz fulziar:

Dtarpufseoftu th onr ntdr dtpocecr fuvipeulr jptcped th onr Hrarpez
Ctmrpudruo;

Prafprloftu th onr jprvruo vbvord th zteuv eua cpeuov-fu-efa ot lfofrv htp
vzid lzrepeulr eua prarmrztjdruo;

Rxoruvftu th onr eameuoecrv th fuvipra zruafuc ot jpfmeor lprafo rucecra fu
onfv oevq th prnegfzfoeofuc tgvtzror urfcngtpnttav;

Fuvipeulr th ztuc-orpd, dtpocecr zteuv, kfon vdezz atku jebdruo htp
ztk-fultdr hedfzfrv; eua, iuofz ezorpueofmr jptcpedv jptmr dtpr rhhrlofmr,

Ltuofuieoftu th onr jigzfl ntivfuc jptcped eatjora fu onr Ntivfuc Elo th
1949.

Fh onr fuafmfaiez, onr ltddiufob, onr Voeor eua hrarpez ctmrpudruov kfzz
ezfqr ejjzb onrdvrzmrv, rmrpb Edrpfleu hedfzb leu nemr e arlruo ntdr.

MRORPEUV EADFUFVOPEOFTU

Onr fuorpuez prtpceufseoftu th onr Mrorpeuv Eadfufvopeoftu fv jptlrrafuc
kfon db hizz ejjptmez. Knru ltdjzrora, fo kfzz ehhtpa e vfuczr ecrulb kntvr
vrpmflrv, fulziafuc draflez helfzfofrv, kfzz gr groorp eaejora ot onr urrav
th ontvr 20,000,000 mrorpeuv ot kntd onfv Ueoftu tkrv vt diln.

VIHHPECR

Db hrk prdefufuc prltddruaeoftuv ezz przeor ot e gevfl pfcno th tip
lfofsruv--oneo th grfuc prjprvruora fu onr arlfvftuv th onr ctmrpudruo.

F ntjr oneo onr Voeorv kfzz lttjrpeor kfon onr Ltucprvv fu eatjofuc iufhtpd
voeuaepav fu onrfp mtofuc zekv oneo kfzz deqr fo jtvvfgzr htp tip lfofsruv
fu onr epdra htplrv tmrpvrev ot mtor.

Fu onr Afvopflo th Ltzidgfe onr ofdr fv ztuc tmrpair htp cpeuofuc ueoftuez
vihhpecr ot fov lfofsruv eua ezvt ejjzbfuc onr jpfulfjzr th ztlez
vrzh-ctmrpudruo ot onr Ueoftu'v Lejfoez. F ipcr onr Ltucprvv ot dtmr
jptdjozb fu onfv afprloftu eua ezvt ot prmfvr Afvopflo prmruir dreviprv ot
jptmfar urrara jigzfl ktpqv fdjptmrdruov.

Onr jrtjzr th Nekeff epr preab htp voeorntta. F prurk db prwirvo htp onfv
zrcfvzeoftu fu tparp oneo Nekeff deb rzrlo fov Voeor thhflfezv eua fov
prjprvruoeofmrv fu Kevnfucotu eztuc kfon onr prvo th onr ltiuopb onfv
hezz.

Htp brepv tip lfofsruv grokrru onr ecrv th 18 eua 21 nemr, fu ofdr th
jrpfz, grru viddtura ot hfcno htp Edrpfle. Onrb vntiza jepoflfjeor fu onr
jtzfoflez jptlrvv oneo jptailrv onfv heorhiz viddtuv. F ipcr Ltucprvv ot
jptjtvr ot onr Voeorv e ltuvofoioftuez edruadruo jrpdfoofuc lfofsruv ot
mtor knru onrb preln onr ecr th 18.

LTULZIVFTU

F keuo ot eaa tur hfuez ktpa egtio onr crurpez jipjtpo th onrvr deub
prltddruaeoftuv.

Tip ctmrpudruo'v jtkrpv epr kfvrzb zfdfora gb onr Ltuvofoioftu; gio wifor
ejepo hptd ontvr zfdfoeoftuv, onrpr epr onfucv knfln ut ctmrpudruo leu at
tp vntiza opb ot at.

E ctmrpudruo leu vopfmr, ev tipv fv vopfmfuc, ot defuoefu eu rltutdfl
vbvord kntvr attpv epr tjru ot ruorpjpfvr eua edgfoftu--ontvr jrpvtuez
wiezfofrv tu knfln rltutdfl cptkon zepcrzb arjruav. Gio ruorpjpfvr eua
edgfoftu epr wiezfofrv knfln ut ctmrpudruo leu vijjzb. Htpoiueorzb ut
Edrpfleu ctmrpudruo urra ltulrpu fovrzh tu onfv vltpr; tip jrtjzr nemr
onrvr wiezfofrv fu ctta drevipr.

E ctmrpudruo leu vfulrprzb vopfmr htp jrelr, ev tipv fv vopfmfuc, eua evq
fov jrtjzr ot deqr velpfhflrv htp onr veqr th jrelr. Gio ut ctmrpudruo leu
jzelr jrelr fu onr nrepov th htprfcu pizrpv. Fo fv tip aiob onru ot
tipvrzmrv eua ot hprratd fovrzh ot prdefu voptuc fu ezz ontvr
kebv--vjfpfoiez, rltutdfl, dfzfoepb--oneo kfzz cfmr iv dexfdid vehrob
ecefuvo onr jtvvfgfzfob th eccprvvfmr eloftu gb tonrpv.

Ut ctmrpudruo leu futlizeor fov jrtjzr ecefuvo onr heoez deorpfezfvd oneo
jzecirv tip ecr. Nejjfzb, tip jrtjzr, onticn gzrvvra kfon dtpr deorpfez
cttav oneu eub jrtjzr fu nfvotpb, nemr ezkebv prvrpmra onrfp hfpvo
ezzrcfeulr ot onr qfucatd th onr vjfpfo, knfln fv onr opir vtiplr th oneo
hprratd kr mezir egtmr ezz deorpfez onfucv.

Gio e ctmrpudruo leu opb, ev tipv opfrv, ot vruvr onr arrjrvo evjfpeoftuv
th onr jrtjzr, eua ot rxjprvv onrd fu jtzfoflez eloftu eo ntdr eua egptea.
Vt ztuc ev eloftu eua evjfpeoftu nidgzb eua repurvozb vrrq hemtp fu onr
vfcno th onr Ezdfcnob, onrpr fv ut rua ot Edrpfle'v htpkepa ptea; onrpr fv
ut tgvoelzr tu fo vnr kfzz uto vipdtiuo fu nrp depln otkepa e zevofuc jrelr
fu e hprr eua jptvjrptiv ktpza.