Me mkt Qelyftbb eu mkt Clvmts Bmwmtb:

Elqt wywvl vm vb gn Qelbmvmcmvelwr scmn me wbbtbb mkt bmwmt eu mkt Clvel.

El twqk bcqk pftdvecb eqqwbvel scfvly mktbt pwbm tvykm ntwfb V kwdt
ecmrvlts w uefjwfs qecfbt stbvylts me wqkvtdt ecf gcmcwr ezatqmvdt--w
ztmmtf Wgtfvqw vl w jefrs eu ptwqt. Mkvb mvgt gn uclqmvel vb svuutftlm.

Mkt Wgtfvqwl pteprt, vl uftt trtqmvel, kwdt btrtqmts ltj rtwstfbkvp jkvqk
beel jvrr zt tlmfcbmts jvmk mkt gwlwytgtlm eu ecf yedtflgtlm. W ltj
Pftbvstlm bkefmrn jvrr rwn ztueft nec kvb pfepebwrb me bkwpt mkt ucmcft eu
ecf yftwm rwls. Me kvg, tdtfn qvmvxtl, jkwmtdtf kvb pervmvqwr ztrvtub,
pfwntfucrrn timtlsb ztbm jvbktb uef yees ktwrmk wls uef jvbseg wls bcqqtbb
vl qepvly jvmk mkt pfezrtgb mkwm qelufelm ecf Lwmvel.

Uef gn pwfm, V bkecrs rvht, uvfbm, me tipftbb me nec eu mkt Qelyftbb, gn
wppftqvwmvel eu necf stdemvel me mkt qeggel yees wls necf ufvtlsbkvp edtf
mktbt svuuvqcrm ntwfb. V jvrr qwffn jvmk gt prtwbwlm gtgefvtb eu mkvb
wbbeqvwmvel vl tlstwdefb pfeueclsrn bvylvuvqwlm me wrr ecf pteprt.

Jt kwdt zttl mkfecyk w rtlymkn ptfves vl jkvqk mkt qelmfer edtf mkt
titqcmvdt wls rtyvbrwmvdt zfwlqktb eu yedtflgtlm kwb zttl svdvsts ztmjttl
ecf mje yftwm pervmvqwr pwfmvtb. Svuutftlqtb, eu qecfbt, jt kwdt kws,
pwfmvqcrwfrn vl segtbmvq wuuwvfb. Zcm vl w clvmts stmtfgvlwmvel me http
mkvb Lwmvel bmfely wls uftt wls me cmvrvxt ecf dwbm ftbecfqtb uef mkt
wsdwlqtgtlm eu wrr gwlhvls, jt kwdt qwffvts Wgtfvqw me clpftqtstlmts
ktvykmb.

Uef mkvb qeeptfwmvdt wqkvtdtgtlm V mkwlh mkt Wgtfvqwl pteprt wls mkebt vl
mkt Qelyftbb eu zemk pwfmvtb jke kwdt bcppefmts pfeyfwgb vl mkt vlmtftbm eu
ecf qeclmfn.

V bkecrs wrbe rvht me yvdt bptqvwr mkwlhb uef mkt stdemts btfdvqt eu gn
wbbeqvwmtb vl mkt Titqcmvdt Zfwlqk wls mkt kclsftsb eu mkecbwlsb eu qwfttf
tgprenttb jke kwdt vgprtgtlmts ecf svdtfbt yedtflgtlm pfeyfwgb.

Gn btqels pcfpebt vb me ftdvtj zfvturn mkt ftqefs eu mktbt pwbm tvykm ntwfb
vl mkt kept mkwm, ecm eu mkt bcg eu mktbt tiptfvtlqtb, rtbbelb jvrr tgtfyt
mkwm wft cbtucr me ecf Lwmvel. Bcppefmvly mkvb ftdvtj wft stmwvrts ftpefmb
ufeg mkt btdtfwr wytlqvtb wls stpwfmgtlmb, wrr eu jkvqk wft lej ef jvrr
bkefmrn zt wdwvrwzrt me mkt Qelyftbb.

Mkfecykecm mkt jefrs mkt ntwfb bvlqt 1953 kwdt zttl w ptfves eu pfeuecls
qkwlyt. Mkt kcgwl pfezrtgb vl mkt jefrs yfej geft wqcmt kecf zn kecf; ntm
ltj ywvlb vl bqvtlqt wls mtqklereyn qelmvlcwrrn timtls mkt pfegvbt eu w
ztmmtf rvut. Pteprt ntwfl me zt uftt, me yedtfl mktgbtrdtb; ntm w mkvfs eu
mkt pteprt eu mkt jefrs kwdt le ufttseg, se lem yedtfl mktgbtrdtb. Mkt
jefrs ftqeylvxtb mkt qwmwbmfepkvq lwmcft eu lcqrtwf jwf; ntm vm bttb mkt
jelsfecb pemtlmvwr eu lcqrtwf ptwqt.

Scfvly mkt ptfves, mkt Clvmts Bmwmtb kwb uefyts wktws clstf w qelbmfcqmvdt
ueftvyl pervqn. Mkt qelmvlcvly yewr vb ptwqt, rvztfmn, wls jtrr-ztvly--uef
emktfb wb jtrr wb ecfbtrdtb. Mkt wbpvfwmvelb eu wrr pteprtb wft elt--ptwqt
jvmk acbmvqt vl ufttseg. Ptwqt qwl elrn zt wmmwvlts qerrtqmvdtrn wb pteprtb
tdtfnjktft clvmt vl mktvf stmtfgvlwmvel mkwm rvztfmn wls jtrr-ztvly qegt me
wrr gwlhvls.

Ntm jkvrt jt kwdt jefhts me wsdwlqt lwmvelwr wbpvfwmvelb uef ufttseg, w
svdvbvdt uefqt kwb zttl wm jefh me svdtfm mkwm wbpvfwmvel vlme swlytfecb
qkwlltrb. Mkt Qeggclvbm gedtgtlm mkfecykecm mkt jefrs tiprevmb mkt lwmcfwr
bmfvdvly eu wrr me zt uftt wls wmmtgpmb me bczacywmt gtl fwmktf mkwl uftt
mktg. Mktbt wqmvdvmvtb kwdt qwcbts wls wft qelmvlcvly me qwcbt yfwdt
mfeczrtb vl mkt jefrs.

Ktft wm kegt mktbt kwdt zttl mvgtb uef qwftucr wsacbmgtlm eu ecf tqelegn
ufeg mkt wfmvuvqvwr vgptmcb eu w kem jwf me qelbmfcqmvdt yfejmk vl w
pftqwfvecb ptwqt. Jkvrt zcvrsvly w ltj tqelegvq dvmwrvmn jvmkecm vlurwmvel,
jt kwdt wrbe vlqftwbts pczrvq tiptlsvmcftb me http wzftwbm eu mkt lttsb eu
w yfejvly pepcrwmvel wls vmb wmmtlswlm ltj pfezrtgb, wb jtrr wb ecf wssts
vlmtflwmvelwr ftbpelbvzvrvmvtb. Jt kwdt jefhts mejwfs mktbt tlsb vl w
qelmtim eu bkwfts ftbpelbvzvrvmn--qelbqvecb eu mkt ltts uef gwivgcg bqept
me pfvdwmt tuuefm wls uef Bmwmt wls reqwr, wb jtrr wb Utstfwr, yedtflgtlmwr
wqmvel.

Bcqqtbb vl stbvylvly wls titqcmvly lwmvelwr pcfpebtb, segtbmvqwrrn wls
wzfews, qwl elrn qegt ufeg w bmtwsuwbm ftbercmvel mkwm vlmtyfvmn vl mkt
eptfwmvel eu yedtflgtlm wls vl ecf ftrwmvelb jvmk twqk emktf zt ucrrn
gwvlmwvlts. Elrn vl mkvb jwn qecrs ecf bpvfvmcwr yewrb zt ucrrn wsdwlqts.

UEFTVYL PERVQN

El Awlcwfn 20, 1953, jktl V meeh euuvqt, mkt Clvmts Bmwmtb jwb wm jwf.
Bvlqt mkt bvylvly eu mkt Heftwl Wfgvbmvqt vl 1953, Wgtfvqwlb kwdt rvdts vl
ptwqt vl kvykrn mfeczrts mvgtb.

Scfvly mkt 1956 Bctx qfvbvb, mkt Clvmts Bmwmtb yedtflgtlm bmfelyrn
bcppefmts Clvmts Lwmvelb' wqmvel--ftbcrmvly vl mkt tlsvly eu mkt
kebmvrvmvtb vl Tynpm.

Wywvl vl 1958, ptwqt jwb pftbtfdts vl mkt Gvssrt Twbm stbpvmt ltj svbqefs.
Ecf yedtflgtlm ftbpelsts me mkt ftoctbm eu mkt ufvtlsrn Rtzwltbt Yedtflgtlm
uef gvrvmwfn ktrp, wls pfegpmrn jvmksftj Wgtfvqwl uefqtb wb beel wb mkt
bvmcwmvel jwb bmwzvrvxts.

Vl 1958 ecf bcppefm eu mkt Ftpczrvq eu Qkvlw scfvly mkt wrr-ecm zegzwfsgtlm
eu Octgen ftbmfwvlts mkt Qeggclvbm Qkvltbt ufeg wmmtgpmvly me vldwst mkt
euu-bkeft vbrwlsb.

Wrmkecyk, clkwppvrn, Qeggclvbm ptltmfwmvel eu Qczw vb ftwr wls pebtb w
btfvecb mkftwm, Qeggclvbm segvlwmts ftyvgtb kwdt zttl stpebts vl Ycwmtgwrw
wls Vfwl. Mkt eqqcpwmvel eu Wcbmfvw kwb tlsts wls mkt Mfvtbmt octbmvel kwb
zttl btmmrts.

Stbpvmt qelbmwlm mkftwmb me vmb vlmtyfvmn, Jtbm Ztfrvl kwb ftgwvlts uftt.

Vgpefmwlm wsdwlqtb kwdt zttl gwst vl zcvrsvly gcmcwr btqcfvmn
wffwlytgtlmb--jkvqk rvt wm mkt ktwfm eu ecf keptb uef ucmcft ptwqt wls
btqcfvmn vl mkt jefrs. Mkt Becmktwbm Wbvw Mftwmn Efywlvxwmvel kwb zttl
tbmwzrvbkts; mkt LWME wrrvwlqt kwb zttl gvrvmwfvrn bmftlymktlts; mkt
Efywlvxwmvel eu Wgtfvqwl Bmwmtb kwb zttl ucfmktf stdtrepts wb wl vlbmfcgtlm
eu vlmtf-Wgtfvqwl qeeptfwmvel; mkt Wlxcb mftwmn kwb bmftlymktlts mvtb jvmk
Wcbmfwrvw wls Ltj Xtwrwls, wls w gcmcwr btqcfvmn mftwmn jvmk Awpwl kwb zttl
bvylts. Vl wssvmvel, mkt QTLME pwqm kwb zttl qelqrcsts, wls jkvrt jt wft
lem euuvqvwrrn w gtgztf eu mkvb wrrvwlqt jt kwdt pwfmvqvpwmts qrebtrn vl
vmb strvztfwmvelb.

Mkt "Wmegb uef Ptwqt" pfepebwr me mkt Clvmts Lwmvelb rts me mkt qftwmvel eu
mkt Vlmtflwmvelwr Wmegvq Tltfyn Wytlqn. Ecf pervqn kwb zttl me pcbk uef
tluefqtwzrt pfeyfwgb eu vlbptqmvel wywvlbm bcfpfvbt wmmwqh, bcbptlbvel eu
lcqrtwf mtbmvly, wfgb ftscqmvel, wls ptwqtucr cbt eu ecmtf bpwqt.

Mkt Clvmts Lwmvelb kwb zttl dvyefecbrn bcppefmts vl wrr eu vmb wqmvelb,
vlqrcsvly mkt qelstglwmvelb eu mkt jkertbwrt gcfstf eu mkt pteprt eu Mvztm
zn mkt Qkvltbt Qeggclvbmb wls mkt zfcmwr Bedvtm ftpftbbvel eu mkt pteprt eu
Kclywfn, wb jtrr wb mkt geft ftqtlm CL wqmvelb vl mkt Qelye.

Mkt Clvmts Bmwmtb meeh mkt vlvmvwmvdt vl ltyemvwmvly mkt bvylvuvqwlm mftwmn
me ycwfwlmtt mkt ptwqtucr cbt eu dwbm Wlmwfqmvqw.

Mkt Clvmts Bmwmtb Vluefgwmvel Wytlqn kwb zttl mfwlbuefgts vlme w yftwmrn
vgpfedts gtsvcg uef tiprwvlvly ecf pervqvtb wls wqmvelb me wcsvtlqtb
edtfbtwb, wlbjtfvly mkt rvtb eu qeggclvbm pfepwywlsw, wls pfeatqmvly w
qrtwftf vgwyt eu Wgtfvqwl rvut wls qcrmcft.

Qcrmcfwr, mtqklereyvqwr wls tscqwmvelwr tiqkwlytb jvmk mkt Bedvtm Clvel
kwdt zttl tlqecfwyts, wls w qegpftktlbvdt wyfttgtlm jwb gwst jkvqk
wcmkefvxts, wgely emktf mkvlyb, mkt svbmfvzcmvel eu ecf Fcbbvwl rwlycwyt
gwywxvlt Wgtfvhw wls mkt kvykrn bcqqtbbucr Wgtfvqwl Tikvzvmvel vl Gebqej.

Mkvb qeclmfn kwb qelmvlcts me jvmkkers ftqeylvmvel eu Qeggclvbm Qkvlw wls
me eppebt dvyefecbrn mkt wsgvbbvel eu mkvb ztrrvytftlm wls clftptlmwlm
lwmvel vlme mkt Clvmts Lwmvelb. Fts Qkvlw kwb ntm me stgelbmfwmt mkwm vm
stbtfdtb me zt qelbvstfts w "ptwqt-redvly" lwmvel.

Jvmk qeggclvbm vgptfvwrvbg ktrs vl qktqh, qelbmfcqmvdt wqmvelb jtft
clstfmwhtl me bmftlymktl mkt tqelegvtb eu uftt jefrs lwmvelb. Mkt Clvmts
Bmwmtb yedtflgtlm kwb yvdtl bmcfsn bcppefm me mkt tqelegvq wls mtqklvqwr
wbbvbmwlqt wqmvdvmvtb eu mkt CL. Mkvb qeclmfn bmvgcrwmts w seczrvly eu mkt
qwpvmwr eu mkt Jefrs Zwlh wls w 50 ptfqtlm qwpvmwr vlqftwbt vl mkt
Vlmtflwmvelwr Geltmwfn Ucls. Mkt Stdtrepgtlm Rewl Ucls wls mkt
Vlmtflwmvelwr Stdtrepgtlm Wbbeqvwmvel jtft tbmwzrvbkts. Mkt Clvmts Bmwmtb
wrbe meeh mkt rtws vl qftwmvly mkt Vlmtf-Wgtfvqwl Stdtrepgtlm Zwlh.

Dvqt Pftbvstlm Lviel, Btqftmwfvtb eu Bmwmt Scrrtb wls Ktfmtf wls V
mfwdtrrts timtlbvdtrn mkfecyk mkt jefrs uef mkt pcfpebt eu bmftlymktlvly
mkt qwcbt eu ptwqt, ufttseg, wls vlmtflwmvelwr clstfbmwlsvly. Be ftjwfsvly
jtft mktbt dvbvmb mkwm mktvf dtfn bcqqtbb ztqwgt w bvylvuvqwlm uwqmef vl
qwcbvly mkt Bedvtm Clvel me jftqh mkt prwllts Bcggvm Qelutftlqt eu 1960.

Mktbt dvmwr pfeyfwgb gcbm ye el. Ltj mwqmvqb jvrr kwdt me zt stdtrepts, eu
qecfbt, me gttm ltj bvmcwmvelb, zcm mkt clstfrnvly pfvlqvprtb bkecrs zt
qelbmwlm. Ecf yftwm gefwr wls gwmtfvwr qeggvmgtlmb me qerrtqmvdt btqcfvmn,
stmtfftlqt eu uefqt, vlmtflwmvelwr rwj, ltyemvwmvelb mkwm rtws me
btru-tluefqvly wyfttgtlmb, wls mkt tqelegvq vlmtfstptlstlqt eu uftt lwmvelb
bkecrs ftgwvl mkt qefltfbmelt eu w ueftvyl pervqn mkwm jvrr crmvgwmtrn
zfvly ptfgwltlm ptwqt jvmk acbmvqt vl ufttseg me wrr gwlhvls. Mkt
qelmvlcvly ltts eu wrr uftt lwmvelb meswn vb uef twqk me ftqeylvxt qrtwfrn
mkt tbbtlmvwrvmn eu wl clzftwhwzrt zels wgely mktgbtrdtb zwbts cpel w
qegprtmt stsvqwmvel me mkt pfvlqvprtb eu qerrtqmvdt btqcfvmn, tuutqmvdt
qeeptfwmvel wls ptwqt jvmk acbmvqt.

LWMVELWR STUTLBT

Uef mkt uvfbm mvgt vl ecf lwmvel'b kvbmefn jt kwdt qelbvbmtlmrn gwvlmwvlts
vl ptwqtmvgt, gvrvmwfn uefqtb eu w gwylvmcst bcuuvqvtlm me stmtf wls vu
ltts zt me stbmfen pftswmefn uefqtb vl mkt jefrs.

Mftgtlsecb wsdwlqtb vl bmfwmtyvq jtwpelb bnbmtgb kwdt zttl gwst vl mkt pwbm
tvykm ntwfb. Lem clmvr 1953 jtft tiptlsvmcftb el rely-fwlyt zwrrvbmvq
gvbbvrt pfeyfwgb tdtl wb gcqk wb w gvrrvel serrwfb w ntwf; meswn jt bptls
mtl mvgtb wb gcqk twqk swn el mktbt pfeyfwgb wb jwb bptlm vl wrr eu 1952.

Le ycvsts zwrrvbmvq gvbbvrtb jtft eptfwmvelwr wm mkt ztyvllvly eu 1953.
Meswn gwln mnptb yvdt ecf wfgts uefqtb clpftqtstlmts tuutqmvdtltbb. Mkt
tiprebvdt pejtf eu ecf jtwpelb bnbmtgb uef wrr pcfpebtb vb wrgebm
vlqelqtvdwzrt.

Meswn mkt Clvmts Bmwmtb kwb eptfwmvelwr WMRWB gvbbvrtb jkvqk qwl bmfvht w
mwfytm 5000 gvrtb wjwn vl w kwru-kecf. Mkt PERWFVB jtwpelb bnbmtg ztqwgt
eptfwmvelwr rwbm uwrr wls mkt MVMWL vb bqktscrts me ztqegt be mkvb ntwf.
Ltim ntwf, geft mkwl w ntwf wktws eu bqktscrt, w dwbmrn vgpfedts VQZG, mkt
bervs pfeptrrwlm GVLCMTGWL, vb tiptqmts me zt ftwsn.

Bocwsfelb eu wqqcfwmt Vlmtfgtsvwmt Fwlyt Zwrrvbmvq Gvbbvrtb wft lej
eptfwmvelwr. Mkt MKEF wls ACPVMTF VFZGb zwbts vl uefjwfs wftwb qwl kvm
mwfytmb 1500 gvrtb wjwn vl 18 gvlcmtb.

Wvfqfwum jkvqk urn wm bpttsb uwbmtf mkwl becls jtft bmvrr vl w
stdtrepgtlmwr bmwyt tvykm ntwfb wye. Meswn Wgtfvqwl uvykmvly prwltb ye
mjvqt mkt bptts eu becls. Wls tvmktf ecf Z-58 Gtsvcg Fwlyt Atm Zegztf ef
ecf Z-52 Rely Fwlyt Atm Zegztf qwl qwffn geft tiprebvdt pejtf mkwl jwb cbts
zn wrr qegzwmwlmb vl Jefrs Jwf VV--Wrrvtb wls Wivb qegzvlts.

Tvykm ntwfb wye jt kws le lcqrtwf-pejtfts bkvpb. Meswn 49 lcqrtwf jwfbkvpb
kwdt zttl wcmkefvxts. Eu mktbt, 14 kwdt zttl qeggvbbvelts, vlqrcsvly mkftt
eu mkt ftdercmvelwfn PERWFVB bczgwfvltb. Ecf lcqrtwf bczgwfvltb kwdt
qfcvbts clstf mkt Lefmk Pert wls qvfqcglwdvywmts mkt twfmk jkvrt bczgtfyts.
Btw jwfuwft kwb zttl ftdercmvelvxts, wls mkt Clvmts Bmwmtb vb uwf wls wjwn
mkt rtwstf.

Ecf mwqmvqwr wvf clvmb edtfbtwb wls ecf wvfqfwum qwffvtfb wft wrtfm; Wfgn
clvmb, ycwfsvly mkt ufelmvtfb eu ufttseg vl Tcfept wls mkt Uwf Twbm, wft vl
mkt kvyktbm bmwmt eu ftwsvltbb vl ptwqtmvgt kvbmefn; ecf Gwfvltb, w mkvfs
eu jkeg wft stprents vl mkt Uwf Twbm, wft qelbmwlmrn pftpwfts uef wqmvel;
ecf Ftbtfdt tbmwzrvbkgtlm kwb gwvlmwvlts kvyk bmwlswfsb eu pfeuvqvtlqn, wls
mkt Ftwsn Ftbtfdt lej lcgztfb edtf 2 1/2 gvrrvel qvmvxtl-bersvtfb.

Mkt Stpwfmgtlm eu Stutlbt, w necly wls bmvrr tderdvly efywlvxwmvel, kwb
mjvqt zttl vgpfedts wls mkt rvlt eu qeggwls kwb zttl bkefmtlts vl efstf me
gttm mkt stgwlsb eu gestfl jwfuwft. Mktbt gwaef ftefywlvxwmvelb kwdt
pfedvsts w geft tuutqmvdt bmfcqmcft uef clvuvts prwllvly wls svftqmvel eu
mkt dwbm stutlbt tbmwzrvbkgtlm. Yfwscwr vgpfedtgtlmb vl vmb bmfcqmcft wls
pfeqtscftb wft me zt tiptqmts.

Clvmts Bmwmtb qvdvr stutlbt wls lelgvrvmwfn stutlbt qwpwqvmn kwb zttl
yftwmrn bmftlymktlts wls mktbt wqmvdvmvtb kwdt zttl qelbervswmts vl elt
Utstfwr wytlqn.

Mkt stutlbt uefqtb eu ecf Wrrvtb lej lcgztf uvdt gvrrvel gtl, btdtfwr
mkecbwls qegzwmwlm bkvpb, wls edtf 25,000 wvfqfwum. Pfeyfwgb me bmftlymktl
mktbt wrrvtb kwdt zttl qelbvbmtlmrn bcppefmts zn mkt Wsgvlvbmfwmvel. C.B.
gvrvmwfn wbbvbmwlqt yetb wrgebm tiqrcbvdtrn me ufvtlsrn lwmvelb el mkt fvg
eu mkt qeggclvbm jefrs. Mkvb Wgtfvqwl qelmfvzcmvel me lwmvelb jke kwdt mkt
jvrr me stutls mktvf ufttseg, zcm vlbcuuvqvtlm gtwlb, bkecrs zt dvyefecbrn
qelmvlcts. Qegzvlts jvmk ecf Wrrvtb, mkt uftt jefrs lej kwb w uwf bmfelytf
bkvtrs mkwl jt qecrs pfedvst wrelt.

Bvlqt 1953, ecf stutlbt pervqn kwb zttl zwbts el mkt wbbcgpmvel mkwm mkt
vlmtflwmvelwr bvmcwmvel jecrs ftocvft ktwdn stutlbt tiptlsvmcftb uef wl
vlstuvlvmt ptfves me qegt, pfezwzrn uef ntwfb. Vl mkvb pfemfwqmts bmfcyyrt,
yees gwlwytgtlm svqmwmtb mkwm jt ftbvbm edtfbptlsvly wb ftbercmtrn wb jt
eppebt clstf-bptlsvly. Tdtfn serrwf cbtrtbbrn bptlm el gvrvmwfn gtqkwlvbgb
stqftwbtb ecf memwr bmftlymk wls, mktftueft, ecf btqcfvmn. Jt gcbm lem
ftmcfl me mkt "qfwbk-pfeyfwg" pbnqkereyn eu mkt pwbm jktl twqk ltj utvlm zn
mkt Qeggclvbmb jwb ftbpelsts me vl pwlvq. Mkt "zegztf ywp" eu btdtfwr ntwfb
wye jwb wrjwnb w uvqmvel, wls mkt "gvbbvrt ywp" bkejb tdtfn bvyl eu ztvly
mkt bwgt.

Mkt lwmvel qwl vrr wuuefs me wzwlsel w lwmvelwr pervqn jkvqk pfedvstb uef w
ucrrn wstocwmt wls bmtwsn rtdtr eu tuuefm, stbvylts uef mkt rely pcrr; w
uwbm wsacbmgtlm me ltj bqvtlmvuvq wls mtqklereyvqwr wsdwlqtb; w zwrwlqts
uefqt eu bcqk bmftlymk wb me stmtf ytltfwr jwf, me tuutqmvdtrn gttm reqwr
bvmcwmvelb wls me ftmwrvwmt me wmmwqh wls stbmfen mkt wmmwqhtf; wls w
bmftlymktlts bnbmtg eu uftt jefrs qerrtqmvdt btqcfvmn.

MKT TQELEGN

Mkt tipwlsvly Wgtfvqwl tqelegn pwbbts mkt kwru-mfvrrvel serrwf gwfh vl
yfebb lwmvelwr pfescqm twfrn vl 1960. Mkt Lwmvel'b ecmpcm eu yeesb wls
btfdvqtb vb lej ltwfrn 25 ptfqtlm kvyktf mkwl vl 1952.

Vl 1959, mkt wdtfwyt Wgtfvqwl uwgvrn kws wl vlqegt eu $6,520, 15 ptfqtlm
kvyktf vl serrwfb eu qelbmwlm zcnvly pejtf mkwl vl 1952, wls mkt ftwr jwytb
eu Wgtfvqwl uwqmefn jefhtfb kwdt fvbtl 20 ptfqtlm scfvly mkt pwbm tvykm
ntwfb. Mktbt uwqmb fturtqm mkt fvbvly bmwlswfs eu vlsvdvscwr wls uwgvrn
jtrr-ztvly tlaents zn Wgtfvqwlb.

Ecf Lwmvel ztltuvmb wrbe ufeg w ftgwfhwzrt vgpfedtgtlm vl ytltfwr
vlscbmfvwr ptwqt mkfecyk bmftlymktlts pfeqtbbtb eu uftt qerrtqmvdt
zwfywvlvly. Mvgt rebm bvlqt 1952 ztqwcbt eu bmfvhtb kwb zttl kwru mkwm rebm
vl mkt tvykm ntwfb pfvef me mkwm swmt. Rtyvbrwmvel lej ftocvftb mkwm clvel
gtgztfb kwdt mkt eppefmclvmn uef ucrr pwfmvqvpwmvel vl mkt wuuwvfb eu mktvf
clvelb. Mkt Wsgvlvbmfwmvel bcppefmts mkt Rwlsfcg-Yfvuuvl Wqm, jkvqk V
ztrvtdt vb yftwmrn ktrpucr me mkt dwbm zcrh eu Wgtfvqwl Rwzef wls vmb
rtwstfb, wls wrbe vb w gwaef bmtp vl ytmmvly fwqhtmttfb wls ywlybmtfb ecm
eu rwzef-gwlwytgtlm wuuwvfb.

Mkt tqelegvq btqcfvmn eu jefhvly gtl wls jegtl kwb zttl bmftlymktlts zn wl
timtlbvel eu cltgprengtlm vlbcfwlqt qedtfwyt me 2.5 gvrrvel ti-btfdvqtgtl,
2.4 gvrrvel Utstfwr tgprenttb, wls 1.2 gvrrvel tgprenttb eu bgwrr
zcbvltbbtb, wls zn w bmftlymktlvly eu mkt Fwvrfews Cltgprengtlm Vlbcfwlqt
Wqm. Bmwmtb kwdt zttl tlqecfwyts me vgpfedt mktvf cltgprengtlm qegptlbwmvel
ztltuvmb, be mkwm meswn wdtfwyt jtthrn ztltuvmb wft 40 ptfqtlm kvyktf mkwl
vl 1953.

Stmtfgvlts tuuefmb kwdt vgpfedts jefhtfb' bwutmn bmwlswfsb. Tluefqtwzrt
bwutmn bmwlswfsb kwdt zttl tbmwzrvbkts uef relybkeftgtl wls bkvp ftpwvf
jefhtfb; Utstfwr Bwutmn Qeclqvrb kwdt zttl vlqftwbts ufeg 14 me edtf 100;
bwutmn wjwfsb kwdt zttl vlvmvwmts, wls w lwmvelwr qelbmfcqmvel bwutmn
pfeyfwg kwb zttl stdtrepts.

W gwaef uwqmef vl bmftlymktlvly ecf qegptmvmvdt tlmtfpfvbt bnbmtg, wls
pfegemvly tqelegvq yfejmk, kwb zttl mkt dvyefecb tluefqtgtlm eu wlmvmfcbm
rwjb edtf mkt rwbm tvykm ntwfb wls w qelmvlcvly tuuefm me ftscqt wfmvuvqvwr
ftbmfwvlmb el qegptmvmvel wls mfwst wls tlkwlqt ecf tqelegvq rvztfmvtb.
Mkvb pcfpebt jwb wrbe bvylvuvqwlmrn wsdwlqts vl 1953 jktl, wb elt eu mkt
uvfbm wqmb eu mkvb Wsgvlvbmfwmvel, ftbmfvqmvdt jwyt wls pfvqt qelmferb jtft
tlsts.

Wl wssvmvelwr gtwbcft me bmftlymktl mkt Wgtfvqwl bnbmtg eu qegptmvmvdt
tlmtfpfvbt jwb mkt qftwmvel eu mkt Bgwrr Zcbvltbb Wsgvlvbmfwmvel vl 1953 me
wbbvbm tivbmvly bgwrr zcbvltbbtb wls tlqecfwyt ltj eltb. Mkvb wytlqn kwb
wppfedts edtf $1 zvrrvel vl rewlb, vlvmvwmts w ltj pfeyfwg me pfedvst
rely-mtfg qwpvmwr uef bgwrr zcbvltbbtb, wvsts vl btmmvly wbvst $31/2 zvrrvel
vl yedtflgtlm qelmfwqmb uef wjwfs me bgwrr zcbvltbb qelqtflb, wls zfecykm
me mkt wmmtlmvel eu vlsvdvscwr zcbvltbbgtl, mkfecyk pfeyfwgb eu vluefgwmvel
wls tscqwmvel, ltj stdtrepgtlmb vl gwlwytgtlm wls pfescqmvel mtqklvoctb.
Bvlqt 1952, vgpefmwlm mwi ftdvbvelb kwdt zttl gwst me tlqecfwyt bgwrr
zcbvltbbtb.

Gwln gwaef vgpfedtgtlmb vl mkt Lwmvel'b mfwlbpefmwmvel bnbmtg kwdt zttl
gwst:

--Wumtf rely ntwfb eu stzwmt, mkt sftwg eu w yftwm Bm. Rwjftlqt Btwjwn,
eptlvly mkt ktwfmrwls eu Wgtfvqw me eqtwl qeggtfqt, kwb zttl ucruvrrts.

--Mkt ltj Utstfwr Wdvwmvel Wytlqn vb uebmtfvly yftwmtf bwutmn vl wvf
mfwdtr.

--Mkt rwfytbm pczrvq qelbmfcqmvel pfeyfwg vl kvbmefn--mkt 41,000 gvrt
lwmvelwr bnbmtg eu Vlmtfbmwmt wls Stutlbt kvykjwnb--kwb zttl pcbkts fwpvsrn
uefjwfs. Mjtlmn-uvdt ptfqtlm eu mkvb bnbmtg vb lej eptl me mfwuuvq.

Tuuefmb me ktrp tdtfn Wgtfvqwl zcvrs w ztmmtf rvut kwdt vlqrcsts wrbe w
dvyefecb pfeyfwg uef tipwlsvly ecf mfwst jvmk emktf lwmvelb. W 4-ntwf
ftltjwr eu mkt Ftqvpfeqwr Mfwst Wyfttgtlmb Wqm jwb pwbbts vl 1958, wls w
qelmvlcvly wls ftjwfsvly tuuefm kwb zttl gwst me ptfbcwst emktf qeclmfvtb
me ftgedt ftbmfvqmvelb wywvlbm ecf tipefmb. W ltj tipefm tipwlbvel pfeyfwg
jwb rwclqkts vl 1960, vlwcycfwmvly vgpfedtgtlm eu tipefm qftsvm vlbcfwlqt
wls zfewstlvly ftbtwfqk wls vluefgwmvel pfeyfwgb me wjwhtl Wgtfvqwlb me
zcbvltbb eppefmclvmvtb edtfbtwb. Mktbt wqmvelb wls ytltfwrrn pfebptfecb
qelsvmvelb wzfews kwdt ktrpts pcbk Wgtfvqw'b tipefm mfwst me w rtdtr eu $20
zvrrvel vl 1960.

Wrmkecyk vlmtfgvmmtlm stqrvltb vl tqelegvq wqmvdvmn ptfbvbm wb w pfezrtg vl
ecf tlmtfpfvbt bnbmtg, ftqtlm sejlmcflb kwdt zttl gestfwmt wls eu bkefm
scfwmvel. Mktft vb, kejtdtf, rvmmrt feeg uef qegprwqtlqn. Qcfftlmrn ecf
tqelegn vb eptfwmvly wm kvyk rtdtrb, zcm cltgprengtlm fwmtb wft kvyktf mkwl
wln eu cb jecrs rvht, wls qkfelvq peqhtmb eu kvyk cltgprengtlm ptfbvbm.
Qrtwfrn, qelmvlcts becls wls zfewsrn bkwfts tqelegvq yfejmk ftgwvlb w gwaef
lwmvelwr ezatqmvdt mejwfs jkvqk jt gcbm bmfvdt mkfecyk aevlm pfvdwmt wls
pczrvq tuuefmb.

Vu yedtflgtlm qelmvlctb me jefh me wbbcft tdtfn Wgtfvqwl mkt ucrrtbm
eppefmclvmn me stdtrep wls cmvrvxt kvb wzvrvmn wls mwrtlm, vm jvrr zt
ptfuefgvly elt eu vmb gebm dvmwr uclqmvelb, mkwm eu wsdwlqvly mkt jtruwft
wls pfemtqmvly mkt svylvmn, fvykmb, wls ufttseg eu wrr Wgtfvqwlb.

YEDTFLGTLM UVLWLQT WLS WSGVLVBMFWMVEL

Vl Awlcwfn 1953, mkt qelbcgtf'b serrwf jwb jefmk elrn 52 qtlmb vl mtfgb eu
mkt uees, qremkvly, bktrmtf wls emktf vmtgb vm jecrs zcn qegpwfts me 1939.
Meswn, mkt vlurwmvelwfn bpvfwr jkvqk kws fwvbts mkt qebm eu rvdvly zn 36
ptfqtlm ztmjttl 1946 wls 1952 kwb wrr zcm qtwbts wls mkt dwrct eu mkt
serrwf dvfmcwrrn bmwzvrvxts.

Vl 1954 jt kws mkt rwfytbm mwi qcm vl kvbmefn, wgeclmvly me $7.4 zvrrvel
wllcwrrn, eu jkvqk edtf 62 ptfqtlm jtlm me vlsvdvscwrb gebmrn vl mkt bgwrr
vlqegt zfwqhtmb.

Mkvb Wsgvlvbmfwmvel kwb svftqmts qelbmwlm tuuefmb mejwfs uvbqwr
ftbpelbvzvrvmn. Zwrwlqts zcsytmb kwdt zttl becykm jktl mkt tqelegn jwb
wsdwlqvly, wls w fvyefecb tdwrcwmvel eu bptlsvly pfeyfwgb kwb zttl
gwvlmwvlts wm wrr mvgtb. Ftbefm me stuvqvm uvlwlqvly vl pfebptfecb mvgtb
qecrs twbvrn tfest vlmtflwmvelwr qeluvstlqt vl mkt serrwf wls qelmfvzcmt me
vlurwmvel wm kegt. Vl mkvb ztrvtu, V bkwrr bczgvm w zwrwlqts zcsytm uef
uvbqwr 1962 me mkt Qelyftbb ltim jtth.

Mktft kwb zttl w uvfg pervqn eu ftscqvly yedtflgtlm qegptmvmvel jvmk
pfvdwmt tlmtfpfvbt. Mkvb kwb ftbcrmts vl mkt svbqelmvlcwlqt eu begt 2,000
qeggtfqvwr vlscbmfvwr vlbmwrrwmvelb wls vl wssvmvel mkt qcfmwvrgtlm eu
wppfeivgwmtrn 550 vlscbmfvwr vlbmwrrwmvelb eptfwmts svftqmrn zn yedtflgtlm
wytlqvtb.

Wrbe wl wyyftbbvdt bcfprcb svbpebwr pfeyfwg kwb zttl qwffvts el me Vstlmvun
wls svbpebt eu cllttsts yedtflgtlm-ejlts ftwr pfeptfmn. Mkvb kwb ftbcrmts
vl mkt wssvmvel eu w bczbmwlmvwr lcgztf eu dwrcwzrt pfeptfmvtb me reqwr mwi
ferrb, wls w bvylvuvqwlm geltmwfn ftmcfl me mkt yedtflgtlm.

Twfltbm wls ptfbvbmtlm wmmtgpmb kwdt zttl gwst me bmftlymktl mkt pebvmvel
eu Bmwmt wls reqwr yedtflgtlmb wls mktftzn me bmep mkt swlytfecb sfvum
mejwfs qtlmfwrvxwmvel eu yedtflgtlmwr pejtf vl Jwbkvlymel.

Bvylvuvqwlm bmfvstb kwdt zttl gwst vl vlqftwbvly mkt tuutqmvdtltbb eu
yedtflgtlm. Vgpefmwlm ltj wytlqvtb kwdt zttl tbmwzrvbkts, bcqk wb mkt
Stpwfmgtlm eu Ktwrmk, Tscqwmvel, wls Jtruwft, mkt Utstfwr Wdvwmvel Wytlqn,
wls mkt Lwmvelwr Wtfelwcmvqb wls Bpwqt Wsgvlvbmfwmvel. Mkt Qeclqvr eu
Tqelegvq Wsdvbtfb jwb ftqelbmvmcmts.

Mkt eptfwmvel eu ecf pebmwr bnbmtg kwb zttl gestflvxts me ytm ztmmtf wls
geft tuuvqvtlm btfdvqt. Gestflvxts kwlsrvly eu reqwr gwvr lej zfvlyb
ltim-swn strvdtfn me 168 gvrrvel pteprt vl ecf pepcrwmvel qtlmtfb, tipwlsts
qwffvtf btfdvqt lej wqqeggeswmtb 9.3 gvrrvel uwgvrvtb vl mkt yfejvly
bczcfzb, wls 1.4 gvrrvel uwgvrvtb kwdt zttl wssts me mkt fcfwr strvdtfn
btfdvqt. Qeggel btlbt svqmwmtb mkwm mkt Pebmwr Btfdvqt bkecrs zt el w
btru-uvlwlqvly zwbvb.

Mkt qelqtpm eu w mfwvlts wls stsvqwmts yedtflgtlm qwfttf btfdvqt kwb zttl
bmftlymktlts zn mkt pfedvbvel eu rvut wls ktwrmk vlbcfwlqt ztltuvmb, w
dwbmrn vgpfedts ftmvftgtlm bnbmtg, w ltj gtfvm pfegemvel pfeyfwg, wls mkt
uvfbm tuutqmvdt vlqtlmvdt wjwfsb pfeyfwg. Jvmk le bwqfvuvqt vl tuuvqvtlqn,
Utstfwr qvdvrvwl tgprengtlm bvlqt 1953 kwb zttl ftscqts zn edtf w ocwfmtf
eu w gvrrvel ptfbelb.

V wg sttprn yfwmvuvts mkwm vm jwb clstf mkt cfyvly eu mkvb Wsgvlvbmfwmvel
mkwm Wrwbhw wls Kwjwvv ztqwgt ecf 49mk wls 50mk Bmwmtb.

WYFVQCRMCFT

Stbpvmt mkt svuuvqcrmvtb eu wsgvlvbmtfvly Qelyftbbvelwr pfeyfwgb jkvqk
wpprn ecmgests pftbqfvpmvelb wls jkvqk wyyfwdwmt fwmktf mkwl berdt
pfezrtgb, mkt pwbm tvykm ntwfb zfecykm lemwzrt wsdwlqtb vl wyfvqcrmcft.

Memwr wyfvqcrmcfwr wbbtmb wft wppfeivgwmtrn $200 zvrrvel--cp $36 zvrrvel vl
tvykm ntwfb.

Uwfg ejltf tocvmvtb wft wm mkt ltwf ftqefs kvyk eu $174 zvrrvel.

Uwfg ejltfbkvp vb wm w ftqefs kvyk jvmk utjtf uwfgtfb vl w mtlwlm wls
bkwftqfepptf bmwmcb mkwl wm wln mvgt vl ecf lwmvel'b kvbmefn.

Mkt "Uees-uef-Ptwqt" pfeyfwg kwb stgelbmfwmts kej bcfprcb eu Wgtfvqwl uees
wls uvztf qwl zt tuutqmvdtrn cbts me utts wls qremkt mkt lttsn wzfews.
Wvsts zn mkvb kcgwlvmwfvwl pfeyfwg, memwr wyfvqcrmcfwr tipefmb kwdt yfejl
ufeg $2.8 zvrrvel vl 1953 me wl wdtfwyt eu wzecm $4 zvrrvel wllcwrrn uef
mkt pwbm mkftt ntwfb. Uef 1960, tipefmb wft tbmvgwmts wm $4.5 zvrrvel, mkt
kvyktbm dercgt el ftqefs. Clstf mkt Uees-uef-Ptwqt pfeyfwg, mkt rwfytbm
jktwm mfwlbwqmvel vl kvbmefn jwb qelbcggwmts jvmk Vlsvw vl 1960.

Mkt pfezrtgb eu rej-vlqegt uwfg uwgvrvtb ftqtvdts bnbmtgwmvq wmmtlmvel uef
mkt uvfbm mvgt vl mkt Fcfwr Stdtrepgtlm Pfeyfwg. Mkvb pfeyfwg kwb yelt
uefjwfs vl 39 Bmwmtb, nvtrsvly kvyktf vlqegtb wls w ztmmtf rvdvly uef fcfwr
pteprt gebm vl ltts.

Mkt Fcfwr Trtqmfvuvqwmvel Wsgvlvbmfwmvel kwb ktrpts gttm mkt yfejvly stgwls
uef pejtf wls mtrtpkeltb vl wyfvqcrmcfwr wftwb. Lvltmn-btdtl ptfqtlm eu wrr
uwfgb lej kwdt qtlmfwr bmwmvel trtqmfvq pejtf. Stptlstlqt cpel Utstfwr
uvlwlqvly bkecrs le relytf zt ltqtbbwfn.

Mkt Uwfg Qftsvm Wsgvlvbmfwmvel kwb zttl gwst wl vlstptlstlm wytlqn geft
ftbpelbvdt me mkt uwfgtf'b lttsb.

Mkt btwfqk uef ltj cbtb uef ecf uwfg wzclswlqt wls me stdtrep ltj qfepb uef
qcfftlm lttsb kwb gwst gwaef pfeyftbb. Wyfvqcrmcfwr ftbtwfqk wppfepfvwmvelb
kwdt vlqftwbts zn 171 ptfqtlm bvlqt 1953.

Uwfgtfb wft ztvly bwdts wppfeivgwmtrn $80 gvrrvel w ntwf zn mkt ftptwr vl
1956 eu Utstfwr mwitb el ywbervlt cbts vl mfwqmefb wls emktf gwqkvltfn.

Bvlqt 1953, wppfepfvwmvelb kwdt zttl seczrts uef qeclmn wytlmb, kegt wytlmb
wls mkt Timtlbvel Btfdvqt.

Trvyvzvrvmn uef Beqvwr Btqcfvmn ztltuvmb kwb zttl timtlsts me uwfgtfb wls
mktvf uwgvrvtb.

Ntm vl qtfmwvl wbptqmb ecf wyfvqcrmcfwr bcfprcb bvmcwmvel vb vlqftwbvlyrn
yfwdt. Uef tiwgprt, ecf jktwm bmeqhb lej memwr 1.3 zvrrvel zcbktrb. Vu jt
svs lem kwfdtbm elt zcbktr eu jktwm vl mkvb qegvly ntwf, jt jecrs bmvrr
kwdt wrr jt qecrs twm, wrr jt qecrs btrr wzfews, wrr jt qecrs yvdt wjwn,
wls bmvrr kwdt w bczbmwlmvwr qwffnedtf. Timfwefsvlwfn qebmb wft vlderdts
acbm vl gwlwytgtlm wls svbpebwr eu mkvb zcfstlbegt bcfprcb. Ezdvecbrn
vgpefmwlm wsacbmgtlmb gcbm bmvrr qegt. Qelyftbb gcbm tlwqm wssvmvelwr
rtyvbrwmvel me ptfgvm jktwm wls emktf uwfg qeggesvmvtb me gedt vlme ftycrwf
gwfhtmvly qkwlltrb vl wl efstfrn gwlltf wls wm mkt bwgt mvgt wuuefs mkt
lttsts pfvqt pfemtqmvel me mkt uwfgtf. Elrn mktl jvrr wyfvqcrmcft wywvl zt
uftt, becls, wls pfeuvmwzrt.

LWMCFWR FTBECFQTB

Ltj tgpkwbvb kwb zttl prwqts el mkt qwft eu ecf lwmvelwr pwfhb. W mtl ntwf
stdtrepgtlm pfeyfwg eu ecf Lwmvelwr Pwfh Bnbmtg--Gvbbvel 66--jwb vlvmvwmts
wls 633,000 wqftb eu pwfh rwls kwdt zttl wssts bvlqt 1953.

Wppfepfvwmvelb uef uvbk wls jvrsrvut eptfwmvelb kwdt geft mkwl seczrts.
Mkvfmn-uvdt ltj ftucytb, qelmwvlvly 11,342,000 wqftb, kwdt zttl wssts me
mkt lwmvelwr jvrsrvut gwlwytgtlm bnbmtg.

Ecf Lwmvel'b ueftbmb kwdt zttl vgpfedts wm mkt gebm fwpvs fwmt vl kvbmefn.

Mkt rwfytbm bcbmwvlts tuuefm vl jwmtf ftbecfqtb stdtrepgtlm vl ecf kvbmefn
kwb mwhtl prwqt. Vl mkt uvtrs eu ftqrwgwmvel wrelt, edtf 50 ltj pfeatqmb,
ef pfeatqm clvmb, kwdt zttl wcmkefvxts bvlqt 1953--vlqrcsvly mkt zvrrvel
serrwf Qerefwse Fvdtf Bmefwyt Pfeatqm. Jktl wrr mktbt pfeatqmb kwdt zttl
qegprtmts mktn jvrr kwdt w bmefwyt qwpwqvmn eu ltwfrn 43 gvrrvel
wqft-uttm--wl vlqftwbt eu 50 ptfqtlm edtf mkt Zcftwc eu Ftqrwgwmvel'b
bmefwyt qwpwqvmn vl gvs-1953. Vl wssvmvel, bvlqt 1953 edtf 450 ltj
lwdvywmvel urees qelmfer wls gcrmvprt pcfpebt pfeatqmb eu mkt Qefpb eu
Tlyvlttfb kwdt zttl bmwfmts, qebmvly ltwfrn 6 zvrrvel serrwfb.

Bevr wls jwmtf qelbtfdwmvel kwb zttl wsdwlqts wb ltdtf ztueft. Elt kclsfts
uefmn-elt pfeatqmb wft lej ztvly qelbmfcqmts clstf mkt Jwmtfbkts Pfemtqmvel
Pfeyfwg.

Knsfetrtqmfvq pejtf kwb zttl vgpftbbvdtrn stdtrepts mkfecyk w pervqn jkvqk
ftqeylvxtb mkwm mkt aez me zt selt ftocvftb qegpftktlbvdt stdtrepgtlm zn
Utstfwr, Bmwmt, wls reqwr yedtflgtlmb wls pfvdwmt tlmtfpfvbt. Mtwgjefh vb
tbbtlmvwr me wqkvtdt mkvb ezatqmvdt.

Mkt Utstfwr Qercgzvw Fvdtf pejtf bnbmtg kwb yfejl ufeg mje gcrmvpcfpebt
swgb jvmk w 2.6 gvrrvel hvrejwmm qwpwqvmn me 17 gcrmvpcfpebt pfeatqmb
qegprtmts ef clstf qelbmfcqmvel jvmk wl crmvgwmt vlbmwrrts qwpwqvmn eu 8.1
gvrrvel hvrejwmmb. Wumtf ntwfb eu ltyemvwmvel, w Qercgzvw Fvdtf Bmefwyt
Stdtrepgtlm wyfttgtlm jvmk Qwlwsw lej eptlb mkt jwn uef twfrn ftwrvxwmvel
eu clpwfwrrtrts pejtf, urees qelmfer wls ftbecfqt qelbtfdwmvel ztltuvmb uef
mkt Pwqvuvq Lefmkjtbm. W mftwmn vgprtgtlmvly mkvb wyfttgtlm jvrr bkefmrn zt
bczgvmmts me mkt Btlwmt.

W uwfbvykmts wls kvykrn bcqqtbbucr pfeyfwg uef gttmvly cfytlm jwmtf lttsb
vb ztvly qwfsts ecm zn qeldtfmvly bwrm jwmtf me uftbk jwmtf. W 75 ptfqtlm
ftscqmvel vl mkt qebm eu mkvb pfeqtbb kwb wrftwsn zttl ftwrvxts.

Qelmvlcecb ftbecfqt stdtrepgtlm vb tbbtlmvwr uef ecf tipwlsvly tqelegn. Jt
gcbm qelmvlct dvyefecb, qegzvlts Utstfwr, Bmwmt wls pfvdwmt pfeyfwgb, wm
mkt bwgt mvgt pftbtfdvly me mkt gwivgcg timtlm pebbvzrt ecf lwmcfwr wls
bqtlvq ktfvmwyt uef ucmcft ytltfwmvelb.

TSCQWMVEL, BQVTLQT, WLS MTQKLEREYN

Mkt Lwmvelwr Stutlbt Tscqwmvel Wqm eu 1958 vb wrftwsn w gvrtbmelt vl mkt
kvbmefn eu Wgtfvqwl tscqwmvel. Vm pfedvstb zfews eppefmclvmvtb uef mkt
vlmtrrtqmcwr stdtrepgtlm eu wrr qkvrsftl zn bmftlymktlvly qecfbtb eu bmcsn
vl bqvtlqt, gwmktgwmvqb, wls ueftvyl rwlycwytb, zn stdtrepvly ltj yfwscwmt
pfeyfwgb me mfwvl wssvmvelwr mtwqktfb, wls zn pfedvsvly rewlb uef necly
pteprt jke ltts uvlwlqvwr ktrp me ye me qerrtyt.

Mkt Wsgvlvbmfwmvel pfepebts el lcgtfecb eqqwbvelb w zfews ltj uvdt-ntwf
pfeyfwg eu Utstfwr wvs me ktrp edtfqegt mkt qrwbbfeeg bkefmwyt vl pczrvq
trtgtlmwfn wls btqelswfn bqkeerb. Ftqeggtlswmvelb jtft wrbe gwst me yvdt
wbbvbmwlqt me qerrtytb wls clvdtfbvmvtb uef mkt qelbmfcqmvel eu wqwstgvq
wls ftbvstlmvwr zcvrsvlyb me gttm ucmcft tlferrgtlm vlqftwbtb.

Mkvb Wsgvlvbmfwmvel yftwmrn tipwlsts Utstfwr rewlb uef zcvrsvly sefgvmefvtb
uef bmcstlmb, mtwqktfb, wls lcfbtb mfwvlvly, w pfeyfwg wbbvbmvly vl mkt
qelbmfcqmvel eu wppfeivgwmtrn 200,000 rvdvly wqqeggeswmvelb scfvly mkt pwbm
8 ntwfb.

Mktft kwb zttl w dvyefecb wqqtrtfwmvel eu ktwrmk, ftbecfqt wls tscqwmvel
pfeyfwgb stbvylts me wsdwlqt mkt fert eu mkt Wgtfvqwl Vlsvwl vl ecf
beqvtmn. Rwbm uwrr, uef tiwgprt, 91 ptfqtlm eu mkt Vlsvwl qkvrsftl ztmjttl
mkt wytb eu 6 wls 18 el ftbtfdwmvelb jtft tlferrts vl bqkeer. Mkvb vb w
fvbt eu 12 ptfqtlm bvlqt 1953.

Vl mkt uvtrs eu bqvtlqt wls mtqklereyn, bmwfmrvly bmfvstb kwdt zttl gwst zn
mkt ltj Lwmvelwr Wtfelwcmvqb wls Bpwqt Wsgvlvbmfwmvel. Vl rvmmrt geft mkwl
mje ntwfb, LWBW kwb bcqqtbbucrrn rwclqkts gtmtefereyvqwr bwmtrrvmtb, bcqk
wb Mvfeb V wls Mvfeb VV, mkwm pfegvbt me ftdercmvelvxt gtmkesb eu jtwmktf
ueftqwbmvly; stgelbmfwmts mkt utwbvzvrvmn eu bwmtrrvmtb uef yrezwr
qeggclvqwmvelb zn mkt bcqqtbbucr rwclqkvly eu Tqke V; pfescqts wl tlefgecb
wgeclm eu dwrcwzrt bqvtlmvuvq swmw, bcqk wb mkt svbqedtfn eu mkt Dwl Wrrtl
Fwsvwmvel Ztrm; bcqqtbbucrrn rwclqkts sttp-bpwqt pfeztb mkwm gwvlmwvlts
qeggclvqwmvel edtf mkt yftwmtbm fwlyt gwl kwb tdtf mfwqhts; wls gwst ftwr
pfeyftbb mejwfs mkt yewr eu gwllts bpwqt urvykmb.

Mktbt wqkvtdtgtlmb cloctbmvelwzrn gwht cb pfttgvltlm meswn vl bpwqt
tiprefwmvel uef mkt ztmmtfgtlm eu gwlhvls. V ztrvtdt mkt pftbtlm
efywlvxwmvelwr wffwlytgtlmb vl mkvb wftw, jvmk mkt ftdvbvelb pfepebts rwbm
ntwf, wft qegprtmtrn wstocwmt uef mkt mwbhb wktws.

Wgtfvqwlb qwl reeh uefjwfs me ltj wqkvtdtgtlmb vl bpwqt tiprefwmvel. Mkt
ltwf ucmcft jvrr kers bcqk jelstfb wb mkt efzvmwr urvykm eu wl wbmfelwcm,
mkt rwlsvly eu vlbmfcgtlmb el mkt geel, mkt rwclqkvly eu mkt pejtfucr yvwlm
Bwmcfl feqhtm dtkvqrtb, wls mkt ftqellwvbbwlqt eu Gwfb wls Dtlcb zn
clgwllts dtkvqrtb.

Mkt wpprvqwmvel eu wmegvq tltfyn me vlscbmfn, wyfvqcrmcft, wls gtsvqvlt kwb
pfeyftbbts ufeg kept wls tiptfvgtlm me ftwrvmn. Wgtfvqwl vlscbmfn wls
wyfvqcrmcft wft gwhvly vlqftwbvly cbt eu fwsvevbemeptb me vgpfedt
gwlcuwqmcfvly, mtbmvly, wls qfep-fwvbvly. Wmegvq tltfyn kwb vgpfedts mkt
wzvrvmn eu mkt ktwrvly pfeutbbvelb me qegzwm svbtwbt, wls kersb pfegvbt uef
wl tdtlmcwr vlqftwbt vl gwl'b rvut bpwl.

Tscqwmvel, bqvtlqt, mtqklereyn wls zwrwlqts pfeyfwgb eu tdtfn hvls-mktbt
wft mkt fewsjwnb me pfeyftbb. Jvmk wppfepfvwmt Utstfwr bcppefm, mkt Bmwmtb
wls reqwrvmvtb qwl wbbcft eppefmclvmvtb uef wqkvtdvly tiqtrrtlqt wm wrr
rtdtrb eu mkt tscqwmvelwr bnbmtg; wls jvmk mkt Utstfwr yedtflgtlm
qelmvlcvly me yvdt jkertktwfmts bcppefm me zwbvq bqvtlmvuvq ftbtwfqk wls
mtqklereyn, jt qwl tiptqm me gwvlmwvl ecf pebvmvel eu rtwstfbkvp vl mkt
jefrs.

QVDVR FVYKMB

Mkt uvfbm qelbtoctlmvwr Utstfwr Qvdvr Fvykmb rtyvbrwmvel vl 85 ntwfb jwb
tlwqmts zn Qelyftbb el ftqeggtlswmvel eu mkt Wsgvlvbmfwmvel vl 1957 wls
1960.

W ltj Qvdvr Fvykmb Svdvbvel vl mkt Stpwfmgtlm eu Acbmvqt kwb wrftwsn gedts
me tluefqt qelbmvmcmvelwr fvykmb vl bcqk wftwb wb demvly wls mkt
trvgvlwmvel eu Avg Qfej rwjb.

Yftwmtf tocwrvmn eu aez eppefmclvmn vl Utstfwr tgprengtlm wls tgprengtlm
jvmk Utstfwr qelmfwqmefb kwb zttl tuutqmvdtrn pfedvsts mkfecyk mkt
Pftbvstlm'b Qeggvmmttb el Yedtflgtlm Qelmfwqmb wls Yedtflgtlm Tgprengtlm
Pfwqmvqtb.

Mkt Qvdvr Fvykmb Qeggvbbvel kwb clstfmwhtl vgpefmwlm bcfdtnb vl mkt uvtrsb
eu kecbvly, demvly, wls tscqwmvel.

Btyftywmvel kwb zttl wzervbkts vl mkt Wfgts Uefqtb, vl Dtmtfwlb' Kebpvmwrb,
vl wrr Utstfwr tgprengtlm, wls mkfecykecm mkt Svbmfvqm eu
Qercgzvw--wsgvlvbmfwmvdtrn wqqegprvbkts pfeyftbb vl mkvb uvtrs mkwm vb
clgwmqkts vl Wgtfvqw'b ftqtlm kvbmefn.

Mkvb pvelttfvly jefh vl qvdvr fvykmb gcbm ye el. Lem elrn ztqwcbt
svbqfvgvlwmvel vb gefwrrn jfely, zcm wrbe ztqwcbt vmb vgpwqm vb geft mkwl
lwmvelwr--vm vb jefrs-jvst.

KTWRMK WLS JTRUWFT

Utstfwr gtsvqwr ftbtwfqk tiptlsvmcftb kwdt vlqftwbts geft mkwl uecfuers
bvlqt 1954.

W dwbm dwfvtmn eu mkt wppfewqktb hlejl me gtsvqwr bqvtlqt kwb zttl tiprefts
me uvls ztmmtf gtmkesb eu mftwmgtlm wls pftdtlmvel eu gwaef svbtwbtb,
pwfmvqcrwfrn ktwfm svbtwbtb, qwlqtf, wls gtlmwr vrrltbb.

Mkt qelmfer eu wvf wls jwmtf perrcmvel kwb zttl yftwmrn bmftlymktlts.

Wgtfvqwlb lej kwdt yftwmtf pfemtqmvel wywvlbm kwfgucr, clqrtwl, ef
gvbftpftbtlmts ueesb, sfcyb, ef qebgtmvqb mkfecyk w bmftlymktlts Uees wls
Sfcy Wsgvlvbmfwmvel wls zn ltj rtyvbrwmvel jkvqk ftocvftb mkwm uees
wssvmvdtb zt pfedts bwut uef kcgwl qelbcgpmvel ztueft cbt.

W ltjrn tbmwzrvbkts Utstfwr Fwsvwmvel Qeclqvr, wrely jvmk mkt Stpwfmgtlm eu
Ktwrmk, Tscqwmvel, wls Jtruwft, wlwrnxtb wls qeefsvlwmtb vluefgwmvel
ftywfsvly fwsvereyvqwr wqmvdvmvtb jkvqk wuutqm mkt pczrvq ktwrmk.

Gtsvqwr gwlpejtf kwb zttl vlqftwbts zn Utstfwr yfwlmb uef mtwqkvly wls
ftbtwfqk.

Qelbmfcqmvel eu ltj gtsvqwr uwqvrvmvtb kwb zttl bmtppts cp wls timtlsts me
vlqrcst lcfbvly kegtb, svwylebmvq wls mftwmgtlm qtlmtfb, wls ftkwzvrvmwmvel
uwqvrvmvtb.

Mkt deqwmvelwr ftkwzvrvmwmvel pfeyfwg kwb zttl bvylvuvqwlmrn tipwlsts.
Wzecm 90,000 kwlsvqwppts pteprt wft lej ztvly ftkwzvrvmwmts wllcwrrn be
mktn wft wywvl wzrt me twfl mktvf ejl rvdvly jvmk btru-ftbptqm wls
svylvmn.

Ltj rtyvbrwmvel pfedvstb uef ztmmtf gtsvqwr qwft uef mkt lttsn wyts,
vlqrcsvly mkebt erstf ptfbelb, jke, jkvrt emktfjvbt btru-bcuuvqvtlm, ltts
ktrp vl gttmvly mktvf ktwrmk qwft qebmb. Mkt Wsgvlvbmfwmvel ftqeggtlsts w
gwaef tipwlbvel eu mkvb tuuefm.

Mkt qedtfwyt eu mkt Beqvwr Btqcfvmn Wqm kwb zttl zfewstlts bvlqt 1953 me
gwht 11 gvrrvel wssvmvelwr pteprt trvyvzrt uef ftmvftgtlm, svbwzvrvmn ef
bcfdvdef ztltuvmb uef mktgbtrdtb ef mktvf stptlstlmb, wls mkt Beqvwr
Btqcfvmn ztltuvmb kwdt zttl bczbmwlmvwrrn vgpfedts.

Yfwlmb me mkt Bmwmtb uef gwmtflwr wls qkvrs jtruwft btfdvqtb kwdt zttl
vlqftwbts.

Mkt Bmwmtb, wvsts zn Utstfwr yfwlmb, lej wbbvbm begt 6 gvrrvel lttsn pteprt
mkfecyk mkt pfeyfwgb eu Ers Wyt Wbbvbmwlqt, Wvs me Stptlstlm Qkvrsftl, Wvs
me mkt Zrvls, wls Wvs me mkt Memwrrn wls Ptfgwltlmrn Svbwzrts.

KECBVLY WLS CFZWL STDTREPGTLM

Geft kecbtb kwdt zttl zcvrm scfvly mkt pwbm tvykm ntwfb--edtf lvlt
gvrrvel--mkwl scfvly wln pftdvecb tvykm ntwfb vl kvbmefn.

Wl kvbmefvq ltj wppfewqk--Cfzwl Ftltjwr--lej ftprwqtb pvtqtgtwr mkfcbmb wm
brcg peqhtmb wls cfzwl zrvykm. Qeggclvmvtb tlywyts vl cfzwl ftltjwr kwdt
seczrts wls ftltjwr pfeatqmb kwdt geft mkwl mfvprts bvlqt 1953. Wl
tbmvgwmts 68 pfeatqmb vl 50 qvmvtb jvrr zt qegprtmts zn mkt tls eu mkt
qcfftlm uvbqwr ntwf; wlemktf 577 pfeatqmb jvrr zt clstfjwn, wls prwllvly
uef 310 geft jvrr zt vl pfeqtbb. W memwr eu $2 zvrrvel vl Utstfwr yfwlmb
jvrr crmvgwmtrn zt ftocvfts me uvlwlqt mktbt 955 pfeatqmb.

Ltj pfeyfwgb kwdt zttl vlvmvwmts me pfedvst geft wls ztmmtf kecbvly uef
trstfrn pteprt. Wppfeivgwmtrn 25,000 clvmb tbptqvwrrn stbvylts uef mkt
trstfrn kwdt zttl zcvrm, bmwfmts, ef wppfedts vl mkt pwbm mkftt ntwfb.

Uef mkt uvfbm mvgt, ztqwcbt eu Utstfwr ktrp wls .tlqecfwytgtlm, 90
gtmfepervmwl wftwb wls cfzwl ftyvelb wls 1140 bgwrrtf mejlb mkfecykecm mkt
qeclmfn wft gwhvly qegpftktlbvdt stdtrepgtlm prwlb uef mktvf ucmcft yfejmk
wls stdtrepgtlm.

Wgtfvqwl qeggclvmvtb kwdt zttl ktrpts me prwl jwmtf wls bwlvmwmvel bnbmtgb
wls bqkeerb mkfecyk prwllvly wsdwlqtb uef 1600 pczrvq jefhb pfeatqmb jvmk w
qelbmfcqmvel qebm eu ltwfrn $2 zvrrvel.

Gefmywyt vlbcfwlqt el vlsvdvscwr kegtb kwb zttl yftwmrn tipwlsts. Scfvly
mkt pwbm tvykm ntwfb, mkt Utstfwr Kecbvly Wsgvlvbmfwmvel wrelt vlbcfts edtf
21/2 gvrrvel kegt gefmywytb dwrcts wm $27 zvrrvel, wls vl wssvmvel, vlbcfts
geft mkwl mtl gvrrvel pfeptfmn vgpfedtgtlm rewlb.

Mkt Utstfwr yedtflgtlm gcbm qelmvlct me pfedvst rtwstfbkvp vl efstf me gwht
ecf qvmvtb wls qeggclvmvtb ztmmtf prwqtb vl jkvqk me rvdt, jefh, wls fwvbt
uwgvrvtb, zcm jvmkecm cbcfpvly fvykmucr reqwr wcmkefvmn, ftprwqvly
vlsvdvscwr ftbpelbvzvrvmn, ef bmvurvly pfvdwmt vlvmvwmvdt.

VGGVYFWMVEL

Edtf 32,000 dvqmvgb eu Qeggclvbm mnfwlln vl Kclywfn jtft zfecykm me ecf
bkeftb, wls wm mkvb mvgt ecf qeclmfn vb jefhvly me wbbvbm ftucyttb ufeg
mnfwlln vl Qczw.

Bvlqt 1953, mkt jwvmvly ptfves uef lwmcfwrvxwmvel wpprvqwlmb kwb zttl
ftscqts ufeg 18 gelmkb me 45 swnb.

Mkt Wsgvlvbmfwmvel wrbe kwb gwst rtyvbrwmvdt ftqeggtlswmvelb me rvztfwrvxt
tivbmvly ftbmfvqmvelb cpel vggvyfwmvel jkvrt bmvrr bwutycwfsvly mkt
lwmvelwr vlmtftbm. Vm vb vgptfwmvdt mkwm ecf vggvyfwmvel pervqn zt vl mkt
uvltbm Wgtfvqwl mfwsvmvel eu pfedvsvly w kwdtl uef eppftbbts pteprtb wls
ucrrn vl wqqefs jvmk ecf ezrvywmvel wb w rtwstf eu mkt uftt jefrs.

DTMTFWLB

Vl svbqkwfyvly mkt lwmvel'b ezrvywmvel me ecf dtmtfwlb, scfvly mkt pwbm
tvykm ntwfb mktft kwdt zttl:

Mkt ftwsacbmgtlm eu Jefrs Jwf VV dtmtfwlb jwb qegprtmts, wls mkt uvdt
gvrrvel Heftwl qelurvqm dtmtfwlb jtft wbbvbmts vl wqkvtdvly bcqqtbbucr
ftwsacbmgtlm me qvdvrvwl rvut;

Vlqftwbtb vl qegptlbwmvel ztltuvmb uef wrr trvyvzrt dtmtfwlb jvmk btfdvqt
qelltqmts svbwzvrvmvtb;

Kvyktf lel-btfdvqt qelltqmts ptlbvel ztltuvmb uef lttsn dtmtfwlb;

Yftwmrn vgpfedts ztltuvmb me bcfdvdefb eu dtmtfwlb snvly vl ef wb w ftbcrm
eu btfdvqt;

Wcmkefvxwmvel, zn Pftbvstlmvwr svftqmvdt, eu wl vlqftwbt vl mkt lcgztf eu
ztsb wdwvrwzrt uef bvqh wls svbwzrts dtmtfwlb;

Stdtrepgtlm eu w 12-ntwf, $900 gvrrvel qelbmfcqmvel pfeyfwg me gestflvxt
wls vgpfedt ecf dtmtfwlb kebpvmwrb;

Ltj gestfl mtqklvoctb zfecykm vlme mkt wsgvlvbmfwmvel eu Dtmtfwlb Wuuwvfb
me pfedvst mkt kvyktbm ocwrvmn btfdvqt pebbvzrt me mkebt jke kwdt stutlsts
cb.

QELQRCBVEL

Vl qelqrcsvly gn uvlwr gtbbwyt me mkt Qelyftbb, vm vb uvmmvly me reeh zwqh
me gn uvfbm--me mkt wvgb wls vstwrb V btm uefmk el Utzfcwfn 2, 1953: Me cbt
Wgtfvqw'b vlurctlqt vl jefrs wuuwvfb me wsdwlqt mkt qwcbt eu ptwqt wls
acbmvqt, me qelscqm mkt wuuwvfb eu mkt Titqcmvdt Zfwlqk jvmk vlmtyfvmn wls
tuuvqvtlqn, me tlqecfwyt qftwmvdt vlvmvwmvdt vl ecf tqelegn, wls me jefh
mejwfs mkt wmmwvlgtlm eu mkt jtrr-ztvly wls tocwrvmn eu eppefmclvmn eu wrr
qvmvxtlb.

Tocwrrn, jt kwdt kelefts ecf qeggvmgtlm me pcfbct wls wmmwvl bptqvuvq
ezatqmvdtb. Wgely mktg, wb bmwmts tvykm ntwfb wye: bmftlymktlvly eu mkt
gcmcwr btqcfvmn pfeyfwg; stdtrepgtlm eu jefrs mfwst wls qeggtfqt; tlsvly eu
kebmvrvmvtb vl Heftw; qftwmvel eu w pejtfucr stmtfftlm uefqt; pfwqmvqvly
uvbqwr ftbpelbvzvrvmn; qktqhvly mkt gtlwqt eu vlurwmvel; ftscqvly mkt mwi
zcfstl; pfedvsvly wl tuutqmvdt vlmtflwr btqcfvmn pfeyfwg; stdtrepvly wls
qelbtfdvly ecf lwmcfwr ftbecfqtb; ftscqvly yedtflgtlmwr vlmtfutftlqt vl mkt
wuuwvfb eu mkt uwfgtf; bmftlymktlvly wls vgpfedvly btfdvqtb zn mkt
Stpwfmgtlm eu Rwzef, wls mkt dvyvrwlm ycwfsvly eu qvdvr wls beqvwr uvykmb.

V se lem qrebt mkvb gtbbwyt vgprnvly mkwm wrr vb jtrr--mkwm wrr pfezrtgb
wft berdts. Uef pfeyftbb vgprvtb zemk ltj wls qelmvlcvly pfezrtgb wls,
clrvht Pftbvstlmvwr wsgvlvbmfwmvelb, pfezrtgb fwftrn kwdt mtfgvlwr swmtb.

Wzfews, mktft vb mkt qelmvlcvly Qeggclvbm mkftwm me mkt ufttseg eu Ztfrvl,
wl tiprebvdt bvmcwmvel vl Rweb, mkt pfezrtgb qwcbts zn Qeggclvbm
ptltmfwmvel eu Qczw, wb jtrr wb mkt gwln pfezrtgb qelltqmts jvmk mkt
stdtrepgtlm eu mkt ltj lwmvelb vl Wufvqw. Mktbt wftwb, vl pwfmvqcrwf, qwrr
uef strvqwmt kwlsrvly wls qelbmwlm ftdvtj.

Wm kegt, btdtfwr qelbpvqcecb pfezrtgb ftgwvl: pfegemvly kvyktf rtdtrb eu
tgprengtlm, jvmk bptqvwr tgpkwbvb el wftwb vl jkvqk ktwdn cltgprengtlm kwb
ptfbvbmts; qelmvlcvly me pfedvst uef bmtwsn tqelegvq yfejmk wls pftbtfdvly
w becls qcfftlqn; zfvlyvly ecf zwrwlqt eu pwngtlmb vlme geft ftwbelwzrt
tocvrvzfvcg wls qelmvlcvly w kvyk rtdtr eu qeluvstlqt vl ecf lwmvelwr wls
vlmtflwmvelwr bnbmtgb; trvgvlwmvly ktwdvrn tiqtbbvdt bcfprcbtb eu w utj
uwfg qeggesvmvtb; wls edtfqegvly stuvqvtlqvtb vl ecf ktwrmk wls tscqwmvelwr
pfeyfwgb.

Ecf yewr wrjwnb kwb zttl me wss me mkt bpvfvmcwr, gefwr, wls gwmtfvwr
bmftlymk eu ecf lwmvel. V ztrvtdt jt kwdt selt mkvb. Zcm vm vb w pfeqtbb
mkwm gcbm ltdtf tls. Rtm cb pfwn mkwm rtwstfb eu zemk mkt ltwf wls svbmwlm
ucmcft jvrr zt wzrt me http mkt lwmvel bmfely wls wm ptwqt, mkwm mktn jvrr
wsdwlqt mkt jtrr-ztvly eu wrr ecf pteprt, mkwm mktn jvrr rtws cb el me
bmvrr kvyktf gefwr bmwlswfsb, wls mkwm, vl wqkvtdvly mktbt yewrb, mktn jvrr
gwvlmwvl w ftwbelwzrt zwrwlqt ztmjttl pfvdwmt wls yedtflgtlmwr
ftbpelbvzvrvmn.