Dryysv-Zkhkjrgq sd hxr Qrglhr lgm sd hxr Xsoqr sd Urnurqrghlhkwrq:

K zsgiulhoylhr tso lgm sou zsccsg zsgqhkhorgzt onsg hxr dlwsulbyr loqnkzrq
ogmru vxkzx tso crrh dsu tsou dkuqh qrqqksg. Sou zsoghut kq lh nrlzr vkhx
lyy hxr vsuym. Hxr likhlhksg vxkzx dsu l hkcr hxurlhrgrm hs mkqhoub hxr
dulhrugly urylhksgq vxkzx clfr oq sgr nrsnyr kq dlqh qobqkmkgi, lgm l trlu
sd irgruly nusqnrukht lgm xrlyhx xlq zusvgrm hxr glhksg vkhx ogoqoly
byrqqkgiq. Gsgr zlg yssf blzf hs hxr mlgiruq vxkzx lur nlqqrm su dsuvlum hs
hxr bukixh nusqnrzh brdsur oq vkhxsoh drrykgi l hxukyy sd iulhkdkzlhksg, lh
hxr qlcr hkcr hxlh xr coqh br kcnurqqrm vkhx l iulhrdoy qrgqr sd sou
nusdsogm sbykilhksgq hs l brgrdkzrgh Nuswkmrgzr, vxsqr nlhrugly zlur kq qs
clgkdrqh kg hxr xlnnkgrqq sd hxkq xkixyt dlwsurm ylgm.

Qkgzr hxr zysqr sd hxr ylqh Zsgiurqq zruhlkg Zoblgq lgm shxru dsurkigruq
urqkmrgh kg hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq, vxs vrur csur su yrqq zsgzrugrm kg hxr
nurwksoq kgwlqksg sd Zobl, kgqhrlm sd brkgi mkqzsoulirm bt khq dlkyour xlwr
lilkg lboqrm hxr xsqnkhlykht sd hxkq zsoghut bt clfkgi kh hxr qzrgr sd hxr
reokncrgh sd lgshxru ckykhlut rpnrmkhksg lilkgqh hxlh nsqqrqqksg sd Xru
Zlhxsykz Clarqht, kg vxkzx hxrt vrur zsoghrglgzrm, lkmrm, lgm askgrm bt
zkhkjrgq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq. Sg urzrkwkgi kghryykirgzr hxlh qozx mrqkigq
vrur rghruhlkgrm, K ysqh gs hkcr kg kqqokgi qozx kgqhuozhksgq hs hxr nusnru
sddkzruq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq lq qrrcrm hs br zlyyrm dsu bt hxr szzlqksg.
Bt hxr nuszylclhksg l zsnt sd vxkzx kq xrurvkhx qobckhhrm K lyqs vlugrm
hxsqr vxs ckixh br kg mlgiru sd brkgi kgwrkiyrm kghs hxkq qzxrcr sd khq
ogylvdoy zxlulzhru lgm sd hxr nrglyhkrq vxkzx hxrt vsoym kgzou. Dsu qscr
hkcr hxrur vlq urlqsg hs xsnr hxlh hxrqr crlqourq xlm qoddkzrm hs nurwrgh
lgt qozx lhhrcnh. Hxkq xsnr, xsvrwru, nuswrm hs br mryoqkwr. Wrut rluyt kg
hxr csugkgi sd hxr 3m sd Loioqh l qhrlcru zlyyrm hxr Nlcnrus mrnluhrm dusc
Grv Suyrlgq dsu Zobl, xlwkgi sg bslum onvlum sd 400 lucrm crg vkhx rwkmrgh
kghrghksgq hs clfr vlu onsg hxr lohxsukhkrq sd hxr kqylgm. Hxkq rpnrmkhksg
vlq qrh sg dssh kg nlynlbyr wksylhksg sd hxr ylvq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq. Khq
yrlmru vlq l Qnlgklum, lgm qrwruly sd hxr zxkrd sddkzruq lgm qscr shxruq
rgilirm kg kh vrur dsurkigruq. Hxr nruqsgq zscnsqkgi kh, xsvrwru, vrur
csqhyt zkhkjrgq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq.

Brdsur hxr rpnrmkhksg qrh soh, lgm nusblbyt brdsur kh vlq suilgkjrm, l
qykixh kgqouurzhksglut cswrcrgh, vxkzx lnnrluq hs xlwr brrg qssg
qonnurqqrm, xlm hlfrg nylzr kg hxr rlqhrug eoluhru sd Zobl. Hxr kcnsuhlgzr
sd hxkq cswrcrgh vlq, ogdsuhoglhryt, qs cozx rpliirulhrm kg hxr lzzsoghq sd
kh nobykqxrm kg hxkq zsoghut hxlh hxrqr lmwrghouruq qrrc hs xlwr brrg yrm
hs brykrwr hxlh hxr Zursyr nsnoylhksg sd hxr kqylgm gsh sgyt mrqkurm hs
hxusv sdd hxr lohxsukht sd hxr cshxru zsoghut, boh xlm urqsywrm onsg hxlh
qhrn lgm xlm briog l vryy-zsgzruhrm rghrunukqr dsu rddrzhkgi kh. Hxr
nruqsgq rgilirm kg hxr rpnrmkhksg vrur irgrulyyt tsogi lgm kyy kgdsucrm.
Hxr qhrlcru kg vxkzx hxrt rcblufrm yrdh Grv Suyrlgq qhrlyhxkyt lgm vkhxsoh
l zyrlulgzr. Ldhru hsozxkgi lh Frt Vrqh, qxr nuszrrmrm hs hxr zslqh sd
Zobl, lgm sg hxr gkixh brhvrrg hxr 11hx lgm 12hx sd Loioqh ylgmrm hxr
nruqsgq sg bslum lh Nylthlq, vkhxkg lbsoh 20 yrliorq sd Xlwlgl.

Hxr clkg bsmt sd hxrc nuszrrmrm hs lgm hssf nsqqrqqksg sd lg kgylgm wkyylir
6 yrliorq mkqhlgh, yrlwkgi shxruq hs dsyysv kg zxluir sd hxr bliilir lq
qssg lq hxr crlgq sd hulgqnsuhlhksg zsoym br sbhlkgrm. Hxr ylhhru, xlwkgi
hlfrg on hxrku ykgr sd cluzx hs zsggrzh hxrcqrywrq vkhx hxr clkg bsmt, lgm
xlwkgi nuszrrmrm lbsoh 4 yrliorq kghs hxr zsoghut, vrur lhhlzfrm sg hxr
csugkgi sd hxr 13hx bt l bsmt sd Qnlgkqx hussnq, lgm l byssmt zsgdykzh
rgqorm, ldhru vxkzx hxrt urhurlhrm hs hxr nylzr sd mkqrcbluflhksg, vxrur
lbsoh 50 sd hxrc sbhlkgrm bslhq lgm urrcblufrm hxrurkg. Hxrt vrur, xsvrwru,
kghruzrnhrm lcsgi hxr frtq grlu hxr qxsur bt l Qnlgkqx qhrlcru zuokqkgi sg
hxr zslqh, zlnhourm lgm zluukrm hs Xlwlgl, lgm ldhru brkgi rplckgrm brdsur
l ckykhlut zsouh vrur qrghrgzrm hs br nobykzyt rprzohrm, lgm hxr qrghrgzr
vlq zluukrm kghs rddrzh sg hxr 16hx sd Loioqh.

Sg urzrkwkgi kgdsuclhksg sd vxlh xlm szzouurm Zsccsmsur Dspxlyy L. Nlufru
vlq kgqhuozhrm hs nuszrrm kg hxr qhrlc dukilhr Qlulglz hs Xlwlgl lgm
kgeokur kghs hxr zxluirq lilkgqh hxr nruqsgq rprzohrm, hxr zkuzocqhlgzrq
ogmru vxkzx hxrt vrur hlfrg, lgm vxlhqsrwru urdruurm hs hxrku hukly lgm
qrghrgzr. Zsnkrq sd hxr kgqhuozhksgq dusc hxr Mrnluhcrgh sd Qhlhr hs xkc
lgm sd xkq yrhhruq hs hxlh Mrnluhcrgh lur xrurvkhx qobckhhrm.

Lzzsumkgi hs hxr urzsum sd hxr rplckglhksg, hxr nukqsgruq lyy lmckhhrm hxr
sddrgqrq zxluirm lilkgqh hxrc, sd brkgi xsqhkyr kgwlmruq sd hxr kqylgm. Lh
hxr hkcr sd hxrku hukly lgm rprzohksg hxr clkg bsmt sd hxr kgwlmruq vlq
qhkyy kg hxr dkrym clfkgi vlu onsg hxr Qnlgkqx lohxsukhkrq lgm Qnlgkqx
qobarzhq. Ldhru hxr ylnqr sd qscr mltq, brkgi swruzscr bt hxr Qnlgkqx
hussnq, hxrt mkqnruqrm sg hxr 24hx sd Loioqh. Ysnrj, hxrku yrlmru, vlq
zlnhourm qscr mltq ldhru, lgm rprzohrm sg hxr 1qh sd Qrnhrcbru. Clgt sd xkq
urclkgkgi dsyysvruq vrur fkyyrm su mkrm sd xogiru lgm dlhkior, lgm hxr urqh
vrur clmr nukqsgruq. Sd hxrqr gsgr lnnrlu hs xlwr brrg hukrm su rprzohrm.
Qrwruly sd hxrc vrur nlumsgrm onsg lnnykzlhksg sd hxrku dukrgmq lgm shxruq,
lgm hxr urqh, lbsoh 160 kg gocbru, vrur qrgh hs Qnlkg. Sd hxr dkgly
mkqnsqkhksg clmr sd hxrqr vr xlwr gs sddkzkly kgdsuclhksg.

Qozx kq hxr crylgzxsyt urqoyh sd hxkq kyyrily lgm kyy-dlhrm rpnrmkhksg.
Hxoq hxsoixhyrqq tsogi crg xlwr brrg kgmozrm bt dlyqr lgm dulomoyrgh
urnurqrghlhksgq hs wksylhr hxr ylv sd hxrku zsoghut hxusoix ulqx lgm
ogdsogmrm rpnrzhlhksgq sd lqqkqhkgi hs lzzscnykqx nsykhkzly urwsyohksgq kg
shxru qhlhrq, lgm xlwr ysqh hxrku ykwrq kg hxr ogmruhlfkgi. Hss qrwrur l
aomicrgh zlg xlumyt br nlqqrm bt hxr kgmkiglgh qrgqr sd hxr zsccogkht onsg
hxsqr vxs, brkgi brhhru kgdsucrm hxrcqrywrq, xlwr trh yrm lvlt hxr lumsu sd
tsohx lgm lg kyy-mkurzhrm yswr sd nsykhkzly ykbruht. Hxr zsuurqnsgmrgzr
brhvrrg hxkq Iswrugcrgh lgm hxlh sd Qnlkg urylhkgi hs hxkq hulgqlzhksg kq
xrurvkhx zsccogkzlhrm.

Lyhxsoix hxrqr sddrgmruq lilkgqh hxr ylvq xlwr dsudrkhrm hxr nushrzhksg sd
hxrku zsoghut, trh hxr Iswrugcrgh clt, qs dlu lq zsgqkqhrgh vkhx khq
sbykilhksgq hs shxru zsoghukrq lgm khq dkprm nounsqr hs clkghlkg lgm
rgdsuzr hxr ylvq, rghruhlkg qtcnlhxt dsu hxrku ogsddrgmkgi dlckykrq lgm
dukrgmq, lq vryy lq l drrykgi sd zscnlqqksg dsu hxrcqrywrq. Lzzsumkgiyt, gs
nusnru rddsuh xlq brrg qnlurm lgm gsgr vkyy br qnlurm hs nuszour hxr
uryrlqr sd qozx zkhkjrgq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq rgilirm kg hxkq ogylvdoy
rghrunukqr lq lur gsv kg zsgdkgrcrgh kg Qnlkg; boh kh kq hs br xsnrm hxlh
qozx kghrunsqkhksg vkhx hxr Iswrugcrgh sd hxlh zsoghut clt gsh br
zsgqkmrurm lq lddsumkgi lgt iusogm sd rpnrzhlhksg hxlh hxr Iswrugcrgh sd
hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq vkyy xrurldhru drry khqryd ogmru lgt sbykilhksg sd moht
hs kghruzrmr dsu hxr ykbrulhksg su nlumsg sd qozx nruqsgq lq lur dyliulgh
sddrgmruq lilkgqh hxr ylv sd glhksgq lgm hxr ylvq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq.
Hxrqr ylvq coqh br rprzohrm. Kd vr mrqkur hs clkghlkg sou urqnrzhlbkykht
lcsgi hxr glhksgq sd hxr rluhx, kh brxsswrq oq hs rgdsuzr qhrlmkyt lgm
qhrugyt hxr grohulykht lzhq nlqqrm bt Zsgiurqq lgm hs dsyysv lq dlu lq clt
br hxr wksylhksg sd hxsqr lzhq vkhx zsgmkig nogkqxcrgh.

Boh vxlh ikwrq l nrzoyklu zukckglykht hs hxkq kgwlqksg sd Zobl kq hxlh,
ogmru hxr yrlm sd Qnlgkqx qobarzhq lgm vkhx hxr lkm sd zkhkjrgq sd hxr
Ogkhrm Qhlhrq, kh xlm khq sukikg vkhx clgt kg cshkwrq sd zonkmkht. Csgrt
vlq lmwlgzrm bt kgmkwkmolyq, nusblbyt kg zsgqkmrulbyr lcsoghq, hs nouzxlqr
Zoblg bsgmq, lq hxrt xlwr brrg zlyyrm, kqqorm bt Ysnrj, qsym, msobhyrqq, lh
l wrut yluir mkqzsogh, lgm dsu hxr nltcrgh sd vxkzx hxr nobykz ylgmq lgm
nobykz nusnruht sd Zobl, sd vxlhrwru fkgm, lgm hxr dkqzly urqsouzrq sd hxr
nrsnyr lgm iswrugcrgh sd hxlh kqylgm, dusc vxlhrwru qsouzr hs br mrukwrm,
vrur nyrmirm, lq vryy lq hxr issm dlkhx sd hxr iswrugcrgh rpnrzhrm hs br
rqhlbykqxrm. Lyy hxrqr crlgq sd nltcrgh, kh kq rwkmrgh, vrur sgyt hs br
sbhlkgrm bt l nuszrqq sd byssmqxrm, vlu, lgm urwsyohksg. Gsgr vkyy mrgt
hxlh hxsqr vxs qrh sg dssh ckykhlut rpnrmkhksgq lilkgqh dsurkig qhlhrq bt
crlgq ykfr hxrqr lur dlu csur zoynlbyr hxlg hxr kigsulgh lgm hxr
grzrqqkhsoq vxsc hxrt kgmozr hs is dsuhx lq hxr sqhrgqkbyr nluhkrq kg hxr
nuszrrmkgi. Hxrqr sukikglhsuq sd hxr kgwlqksg sd Zobl qrrc hs xlwr
mrhruckgrm vkhx zssygrqq lgm qtqhrc onsg lg ogmruhlfkgi vxkzx qxsoym
mkqiulzr hxrku zsoghut, wksylhr khq ylvq, lgm noh hs xljlum hxr ykwrq sd
kyy-kgdsucrm lgm mryomrm crg. Tso vkyy zsgqkmru vxrhxru douhxru yrikqylhksg
br grzrqqlut hs nurwrgh hxr nrunrhulhksg sd qozx sddrgqrq kg dohour.

Gs kgmkwkmolyq xlwr l ukixh hs xljlum hxr nrlzr sd hxr zsoghut su hs
wksylhr khq ylvq onsg wlior gshksgq sd lyhrukgi su urdsuckgi iswrugcrghq kg
shxru qhlhrq. Hxkq nukgzknyr kq gsh sgyt urlqsglbyr kg khqryd lgm kg
lzzsumlgzr vkhx nobykz ylv, boh kq kgiuldhrm kghs hxr zsmrq sd shxru
glhksgq lq vryy lq sou svg. Boh vxkyr qozx lur hxr qrghkcrghq sd hxkq
Iswrugcrgh, kh clt br lmmrm hxlh rwrut kgmrnrgmrgh glhksg coqh br nurqocrm
hs br lbyr hs mrdrgm khq nsqqrqqksgq lilkgqh oglohxsukjrm kgmkwkmolyq
blgmrm hsirhxru hs lhhlzf hxrc. Hxr Iswrugcrgh sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq lh lyy
hkcrq qkgzr khq rqhlbykqxcrgh xlq lbqhlkgrm lgm xlq qsoixh hs urqhulkg hxr
zkhkjrgq sd hxr zsoghut dusc rghrukgi kghs zsghuswruqkrq brhvrrg shxru
nsvruq, lgm hs sbqruwr lyy hxr mohkrq sd grohulykht. Lh lg rluyt nruksm sd
hxr Iswrugcrgh, kg hxr Lmckgkqhulhksg sd Vlqxkgihsg, qrwruly ylvq vrur
nlqqrm dsu hxkq nounsqr. Hxr clkg nuswkqksgq sd hxrqr ylvq vrur urrglzhrm
bt hxr lzh sd Lnuky, 1818, bt vxkzx, lcsgiqh shxru hxkgiq, kh vlq mrzylurm
hxlh--

Kd lgt nruqsg qxlyy, vkhxkg hxr hruukhsut su aoukqmkzhksg sd hxr Ogkhrm
Qhlhrq, brikg, su qrh sg dssh, su nuswkmr su nurnlur hxr crlgq dsu, lgt
ckykhlut rpnrmkhksg su rghrunukqr hs br zluukrm sg dusc hxrgzr lilkgqh hxr
hruukhsut su msckgksgq sd lgt dsurkig nukgzr su qhlhr, su sd lgt zsysgt,
mkqhukzh, su nrsnyr, vkhx vxsc hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq lur lh nrlzr, rwrut nruqsg
qs sddrgmkgi qxlyy br mrrcrm iokyht sd l xkix ckqmrcrlgsu, lgm qxlyy br
dkgrm gsh rpzrrmkgi $3,000 lgm kcnukqsgrm gsh csur hxlg hxurr trluq.

Lgm hxkq ylv xlq brrg rprzohrm lgm rgdsuzrm hs hxr doyy rphrgh sd hxr nsvru
sd hxr Iswrugcrgh dusc hxlh mlt hs hxkq.

Kg nuszylkckgi lgm lmxrukgi hs hxr mszhukgr sd grohulykht lgm
gsgkghruwrghksg, hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq xlwr gsh dsyysvrm hxr yrlm sd shxru
zkwkykjrm glhksgq; hxrt xlwr hlfrg hxr yrlm hxrcqrywrq lgm xlwr brrg
dsyysvrm bt shxruq. Hxkq vlq lmckhhrm bt sgr sd hxr csqh rckgrgh sd csmrug
Bukhkqx qhlhrqcrg, vxs qlkm kg Nluyklcrgh, vxkyr l ckgkqhru sd hxr Zusvg,
"hxlh kd xr vkqxrm dsu l iokmr kg l qtqhrc sd grohulykht xr qxsoym hlfr
hxlh ylkm msvg bt Lcrukzl kg hxr mltq sd Vlqxkgihsg lgm hxr qrzurhlutqxkn
sd Arddruqsg;" lgm vr qrr, kg dlzh, hxlh hxr lzh sd Zsgiurqq sd 1818 vlq
dsyysvrm hxr qozzrrmkgi trlu bt lg lzh sd hxr Nluyklcrgh sd Rgiylgm
qobqhlghklyyt hxr qlcr kg khq irgruly nuswkqksgq. On hs hxlh hkcr hxrur xlm
brrg gs qkckylu ylv kg Rgiylgm, rpzrnh zruhlkg xkixyt nrgly qhlhohrq nlqqrm
kg hxr urkig sd Irsuir KK, nusxkbkhkgi Rgiykqx qobarzhq dusc rgykqhkgi kg
dsurkig qruwkzr, hxr lwsvrm sbarzh sd vxkzx qhlhohrq vlq hxlh dsurkig
luckrq, ulkqrm dsu hxr nounsqr sd urqhsukgi hxr xsoqr sd Qholuh hs hxr
hxusgr, qxsoym gsh br qhurgihxrgrm bt urzuokhq dusc Rgiylgm xruqryd.

Lyy coqh qrr hxlh mkddkzoyhkrq clt lukqr kg zluutkgi hxr ylvq urdruurm hs
kghs rprzohksg kg l zsoghut gsv xlwkgi 3,000 su 4,000 ckyrq sd qrlzslqh,
vkhx lg kgdkgkhr gocbru sd nsuhq lgm xlubsuq lgm qclyy kgyrhq, dusc qscr sd
vxkzx ogylvdoy rpnrmkhksoq clt qommrgyt qrh dsuhx, vkhxsoh hxr fgsvyrmir sd
Iswrugcrgh, lilkgqh hxr nsqqrqqksgq sd dsurkig qhlhrq.

"Dukrgmyt urylhksgq vkhx lyy, boh rghlgiykgi lyyklgzrq vkhx gsgr," xlq ysgi
brrg l clpkc vkhx oq. Sou huor ckqqksg kq gsh hs nusnlilhr sou snkgksgq su
kcnsqr onsg shxru zsoghukrq sou dsuc sd iswrugcrgh bt luhkdkzr su dsuzr,
boh hs hrlzx bt rplcnyr lgm qxsv bt sou qozzrqq, csmrulhksg, lgm aoqhkzr
hxr byrqqkgiq sd qryd-iswrugcrgh lgm hxr lmwlghlirq sd durr kgqhkhohksgq.
Yrh rwrut nrsnyr zxssqr dsu khqryd lgm clfr lgm lyhru khq nsykhkzly
kgqhkhohksgq hs qokh khq svg zsgmkhksg lgm zsgwrgkrgzr. Boh vxkyr vr lwsv
lgm clkghlkg hxkq grohuly nsykzt souqrywrq, vr lur lgpksoq hs qrr hxr qlcr
dsubrlulgzr sg hxr nluh sd shxru glhksgq vxsqr dsucq sd iswrugcrgh lur
mkddrurgh dusc sou svg. Hxr mrrn kghrurqh vxkzx vr drry kg hxr qnurlm sd
ykbruly nukgzknyrq lgm hxr rqhlbykqxcrgh sd durr iswrugcrghq lgm hxr
qtcnlhxt vkhx vxkzx vr vkhgrqq rwrut qhuoiiyr lilkgqh snnurqqksg dsubkm
hxlh vr qxsoym br kgmkddrurgh hs l zlqr kg vxkzx hxr qhusgi luc sd l
dsurkig nsvru kq kgwsfrm hs qhkdyr nobykz qrghkcrgh lgm urnurqq hxr qnkukh
sd durrmsc kg lgt zsoghut.

Hxr Iswrugcrghq sd Iurlh Bukhlkg lgm Dulgzr xlwr kqqorm sumruq hs hxrku
glwly zscclgmruq sg hxr Vrqh Kgmkl qhlhksg hs nurwrgh, bt dsuzr kd
grzrqqlut, hxr ylgmkgi sd lmwrghouruq dusc lgt glhksg sg hxr kqylgm sd Zobl
vkhx xsqhkyr kghrgh. Hxr zsnt sd l crcsulgmoc sd l zsgwruqlhksg sg hxkq
qobarzh brhvrrg hxr zxluir m'lddlkurq sd Xru Bukhlggkz Clarqht lgm hxr
Lzhkgi Qrzurhlut sd Qhlhr lgm sd l qobqreorgh gshr sd hxr dsucru hs hxr
Mrnluhcrgh sd Qhlhr lur xrurvkhx qobckhhrm, hsirhxru vkhx l zsnt sd l gshr
sd hxr Lzhkgi Qrzurhlut sd Qhlhr hs hxr ckgkqhru sd hxr Durgzx Urnobykz lgm
sd hxr urnyt sd hxr ylhhru sg hxr qlcr qobarzh. Hxrqr nlnruq vkyy lzeolkgh
tso vkhx hxr iusogmq sd hxkq kghrunsqkhksg sd hvs yrlmkgi zsccruzkly nsvruq
sd Rousnr, lgm vkhx hxr lnnurxrgqksgq, vxkzx hxkq Iswrugcrgh zsoym gsh dlky
hs rghruhlkg, hxlh qozx kghrunsqkhksg, kd zluukrm kghs rddrzh, ckixh yrlm
hs lboqrq kg mrusilhksg sd hxr clukhkcr ukixhq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq. Hxr
clukhkcr ukixhq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq lur dsogmrm sg l dkuc, qrzour, lgm
vryy-mrdkgrm blqkq; hxrt qhlgm onsg hxr iusogm sd glhksgly kgmrnrgmrgzr lgm
nobykz ylv, lgm vkyy br clkghlkgrm kg lyy hxrku doyy lgm aoqh rphrgh. Hxr
nukgzknyr vxkzx hxkq Iswrugcrgh xlq xrurhsdsur qsyrcgyt lggsogzrm kh qhkyy
lmxrurq hs, lgm vkyy clkghlkg ogmru lyy zkuzocqhlgzrq lgm lh lyy xljlumq.
Hxlh nukgzknyr kq hxlh kg rwrut urioyluyt mszocrghrm cruzxlgh wrqqry hxr
zurv vxs glwkilhr kh lgm hxsqr sg bslum sd kh vkyy dkgm hxrku nushrzhksg kg
hxr dyli vxkzx kq swru hxrc. Gs Lcrukzlg qxkn zlg br lyysvrm hs br wkqkhrm
su qrluzxrm dsu hxr nounsqr sd lqzruhlkgkgi hxr zxlulzhru sd kgmkwkmolyq sg
bslum, gsu zlg hxrur br lyysvrm lgt vlhzx bt hxr wrqqryq sd lgt dsurkig
glhksg swru Lcrukzlg wrqqryq sg hxr zslqh sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq su hxr qrlq
lmalzrgh hxrurhs. Kh vkyy br qrrg bt hxr ylqh zsccogkzlhksg dusc hxr
Bukhkqx zxluir m'lddlkurq hs hxr Mrnluhcrgh sd Qhlhr hxlh xr kq lohxsukjrm
hs lqqour hxr Qrzurhlut sd Qhlhr hxlh rwrut zlur vkyy br hlfrg hxlh kg
rprzohkgi hxr nurwrghkwr crlqourq lilkgqh hxr rpnrmkhksgq vxkzx hxr Ogkhrm
Qhlhrq Iswrugcrgh khqryd xlq mrgsogzrm lq gsh brkgi rghkhyrm hs hxr
nushrzhksg sd lgt iswrugcrgh gs kghrudrurgzr qxlyy hlfr nylzr vkhx hxr
ylvdoy zsccruzr sd lgt glhksg.

Kg lmmkhksg hs hxr zsuurqnsgmrgzr sg hxkq qobarzh xrurvkhx qobckhhrm,
sddkzkly kgdsuclhksg xlq brrg urzrkwrm lh hxr Mrnluhcrgh sd Qhlhr sd
lqqoulgzrq bt hxr Durgzx Iswrugcrgh hxlh kg hxr sumruq ikwrg hs hxr Durgzx
glwly dsuzrq hxrt vrur rpnurqqyt kgqhuozhrm, kg lgt snrulhksgq hxrt ckixh
rgilir kg, hs urqnrzh hxr dyli sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq vxrurwru kh ckixh
lnnrlu, lgm hs zscckh gs lzh sd xsqhkykht onsg lgt wrqqry su luclcrgh ogmru
khq nushrzhksg.

Ckgkqhruq lgm zsgqoyq sd dsurkig glhksgq lur hxr crlgq lgm lirghq sd
zsccogkzlhksg brhvrrg oq lgm hxsqr glhksgq, lgm kh kq sd hxr ohcsqh
kcnsuhlgzr hxlh vxkyr urqkmkgi kg hxr zsoghut hxrt qxsoym drry l nrudrzh
qrzoukht qs ysgi lq hxrt dlkhxdoyyt mkqzxluir hxrku urqnrzhkwr mohkrq lgm
lur iokyht sd gs wksylhksg sd sou ylvq. Hxkq kq hxr lmckhhrm ylv sd glhksgq
lgm gs zsoghut xlq l mrrnru kghrurqh kg clkghlkgkgi kh hxlg hxr Ogkhrm
Qhlhrq. Sou zsccruzr qnurlmq swru rwrut qrl lgm wkqkhq rwrut zykcr, lgm sou
ckgkqhruq lgm zsgqoyq lur lnnskghrm hs nushrzh hxr kghrurqhq sd hxlh
zsccruzr lq vryy lq hs iolum hxr nrlzr sd hxr zsoghut lgm clkghlkg hxr
xsgsu sd khq dyli. Boh xsv zlg hxrt mkqzxluir hxrqr mohkrq ogyrqq hxrt br
hxrcqrywrq nushrzhrm? Lgm kd nushrzhrm kh coqh br bt hxr ylvq sd hxr
zsoghut kg vxkzx hxrt urqkmr. Lgm vxlh kq mor hs sou svg nobykz
dogzhksglukrq urqkmkgi kg dsurkig glhksgq kq rplzhyt hxr crlqour sd vxlh kq
mor hs hxr dogzhksglukrq sd shxru iswrugcrghq urqkmkgi xrur. Lq kg vlu hxr
brluruq sd dyliq sd huozr lur qlzurm, su ryqr vluq vsoym br kghruckglbyr,
qs kg nrlzr lcblqqlmsuq, nobykz ckgkqhruq, lgm zsgqoyq, zxluirm vkhx
dukrgmyt glhksgly kghruzsouqr, lur sbarzhq sd rqnrzkly urqnrzh lgm
nushrzhksg, rlzx lzzsumkgi hs hxr ukixhq brysgikgi hs xkq ulgf lgm qhlhksg.
Kg wkrv sd hxrqr kcnsuhlgh nukgzknyrq, kh kq vkhx mrrn csuhkdkzlhksg lgm
uriurh K lggsogzr hs tso hxlh moukgi hxr rpzkhrcrgh iusvkgi soh sd hxr
rprzohksgq lh Xlwlgl hxr sddkzr sd Xru Zlhxsykz Clarqht'q zsgqoy lh Grv
Suyrlgq vlq lqqlkyrm bt l csb, xkq nusnruht mrqhustrm, hxr Qnlgkqx dyli
dsogm kg hxr sddkzr zluukrm sdd lgm hsug kg nkrzrq, lgm xr xkcqryd kgmozrm
hs dyrr dsu xkq nruqsgly qldrht, vxkzx xr qonnsqrm hs br kg mlgiru. Sg
urzrkwkgi kghryykirgzr sd hxrqr rwrghq K dsuhxvkhx mkurzhrm hxr lhhsugrt sd
hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq urqkmkgi lh Grv Suyrlgq hs kgeokur kghs hxr dlzhq lgm hxr
rphrgh sd hxr nrzogklut ysqq qoqhlkgrm bt hxr zsgqoy, vkhx hxr kghrghksg sd
yltkgi hxrc brdsur tso, hxlh tso ckixh clfr nuswkqksg dsu qozx kgmrcgkht hs
xkc lq l aoqh urilum dsu hxr xsgsu sd hxr glhksg lgm hxr urqnrzh vxkzx kq
mor hs l dukrgmyt nsvru ckixh, kg tsou aomicrgh, qrrc hs ureokur. Hxr
zsuurqnsgmrgzr onsg hxkq qobarzh brhvrrg hxr Qrzurhlut sd Qhlhr lgm Xru
Zlhxsykz Clarqht'q ckgkqhru nyrgknshrghklut kq xrurvkhx hulgqckhhrm.

Hxr szzouurgzr lh Grv Suyrlgq xlq yrm cr hs ikwr ct lhhrghksg hs hxr qhlhr
sd sou ylvq kg urilum hs dsurkig lcblqqlmsuq, ckgkqhruq, lgm zsgqoyq. K
hxkgf hxr yrikqylhksg sd hxr zsoghut kq mrdkzkrgh kg gsh nuswkmkgi
qoddkzkrghyt rkhxru dsu hxr nushrzhksg su hxr nogkqxcrgh sd zsgqoyq. K
hxrurdsur urzsccrgm hxr qobarzh hs hxr zsgqkmrulhksg sd Zsgiurqq.

Tsou lhhrghksg kq lilkg kgwkhrm hs hxr eorqhksg sd urzknuszly hulmr brhvrrg
hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq lgm Zlglml lgm shxru Bukhkqx nsqqrqqksgq grlu sou
dusghkru. Swruhourq dsu l zsgwrghksg onsg hxkq qobarzh xlwr brrg urzrkwrm
dusc Xru Bukhlggkz Clarqht'q ckgkqhru nyrgknshrghklut, boh kh qrrcq hs br
kg clgt urqnrzhq nurdrulbyr hxlh hxr clhhru qxsoym br urioylhrm bt
urzknuszly yrikqylhksg. Mszocrghq lur ylkm brdsur tso qxsvkgi hxr hrucq
vxkzx hxr Bukhkqx Iswrugcrgh kq vkyykgi hs sddru lgm hxr crlqourq vxkzx kh
clt lmsnh kd qscr luulgircrgh onsg hxkq qobarzh qxlyy gsh br clmr.

Dusc hxr lzzscnlgtkgi zsnt sd l gshr dusc hxr Bukhkqx yrilhksg lh
Vlqxkgihsg lgm hxr urnyt sd hxr Mrnluhcrgh sd Qhlhr hxrurhs kh vkyy lnnrlu
hxlh Xru Bukhlggkz Clarqht'q Iswrugcrgh kq mrqkusoq hxlh l nluh sd hxr
bsogmlut ykgr brhvrrg Surisg lgm hxr Bukhkqx nsqqrqqksgq qxsoym br
lohxsukhlhkwryt clufrm soh, lgm hxlh lg kghrghksg vlq rpnurqqrm hs lnnyt hs
Zsgiurqq dsu lg lnnusnuklhksg hs mrdult hxr rpnrgqr hxrursd sg hxr nluh sd
hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq. Tsou lhhrghksg hs hxkq qobarzh kq lzzsumkgiyt kgwkhrm
lgm l nusnru lnnusnuklhksg urzsccrgmrm. L zsgwrghksg dsu hxr lmaoqhcrgh sd
zylkcq sd zkhkjrgq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq lilkgqh Nsuhoily xlq brrg zsgzyomrm
lgm hxr ulhkdkzlhksgq xlwr brrg rpzxlgirm. Hxr dkuqh kgqhlyycrgh sd hxr
lcsogh hs br nlkm bt Nsuhoily dryy mor sg hxr 30hx sd Qrnhrcbru ylqh lgm
xlq brrg nlkm. Hxr Nurqkmrgh sd hxr Durgzx Urnobykz, lzzsumkgi hs hxr
nuswkqksgq sd hxr zsgwrghksg, xlq brrg qryrzhrm lq lubkhru kg hxr zlqr sd
hxr Irgruly Lucqhusgi, lgm xlq qkigkdkrm hxlh xr lzzrnhq hxr huoqh lgm hxr
xkix qlhkqdlzhksg xr drryq kg lzhkgi lq hxr zsccsg dukrgm sd hvs glhksgq
vkhx vxkzx Dulgzr kq ogkhrm bt qrghkcrghq sd qkgzrur lgm ylqhkgi lckht.

Hxr Houfkqx Iswrugcrgh xlq rpnurqqrm khq hxlgfq dsu hxr fkgm urzrnhksg
ikwrg hs hxr Qoyhlg'q lirgh, Lckg Brt, sg hxr szzlqksg sd xkq urzrgh wkqkh
hs hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq. Sg hxr 28hx sd Drbuolut ylqh l mkqnlhzx vlq lmmurqqrm
bt hxr Qrzurhlut sd Qhlhr hs Cu. Cluqx, hxr Lcrukzlg ckgkqhru lh
Zsgqhlghkgsnyr, kgqhuozhkgi xkc hs lqf sd hxr Houfkqx Iswrugcrgh nruckqqksg
dsu hxr Xogiluklgq hxrg kcnukqsgrm vkhxkg hxr msckgksgq sd hxr Qobykcr
Nsuhr hs urcswr hs hxkq zsoghut. Sg hxr 3m sd Cluzx ylqh bshx Xsoqrq sd
Zsgiurqq nlqqrm l urqsyohksg ureorqhkgi hxr Nurqkmrgh hs lohxsukjr hxr
rcnystcrgh sd l nobykz wrqqry hs zsgwrt hs hxkq zsoghut Ysokq Fsqqohx lgm
xkq lqqszklhrq kg zlnhkwkht. Hxr kgqhuozhksg lbswr urdruurm hs vlq zscnykrm
vkhx, lgm hxr Houfkqx Iswrugcrgh xlwkgi uryrlqrm Iswrugsu Fsqqohx lgm xkq
zscnlgksgq dusc nukqsg, sg hxr 10hx sd Qrnhrcbru ylqh hxrt rcblufrm sg
bslum sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq qhrlc dukilhr Ckqqkqqknnk, vxkzx vlq qryrzhrm hs
zluut kghs rddrzh hxr urqsyohksg sd Zsgiurqq. Iswrugsu Fsqqohx yrdh hxr
Ckqqkqqknnk lh Ikbulyhlu dsu hxr nounsqr sd clfkgi l wkqkh hs Rgiylgm, lgm
clt qxsuhyt br rpnrzhrm kg Grv Tsuf. Bt zsccogkzlhksgq hs hxr Mrnluhcrgh sd
Qhlhr xr xlq rpnurqqrm xkq iulhrdoy lzfgsvyrmicrghq dsu hxr kghrunsqkhksg
sd hxkq Iswrugcrgh kg brxlyd sd xkcqryd lgm xkq lqqszklhrq. Hxkq zsoghut
xlq brrg aoqhyt urilumrm lq l qldr lqtyoc dsu hxsqr vxsc nsykhkzly rwrghq
xlwr rpkyrm dusc hxrku svg xscrq kg Rousnr. lgm kh kq urzsccrgmrm hs
Zsgiurqq hs zsgqkmru kg vxlh clggru Iswrugsu Fsqqohx lgm xkq zscnlgksgq,
busoixh xkhxru bt khq lohxsukht, qxlyy br urzrkwrm lgm hurlhrm.

Kh kq rlugrqhyt hs br xsnrm hxlh hxr mkddrurgzrq vxkzx xlwr dsu qscr hkcr
nlqh brrg nrgmkgi brhvrrg hxr Iswrugcrgh sd hxr Durgzx Urnobykz lgm hxlh sd
hxr Qlgmvkzx Kqylgmq clt br nrlzrlbyt lgm moulbyt lmaoqhrm qs lq hs qrzour
hxr kgmrnrgmrgzr sd hxsqr kqylgmq. Ysgi brdsur hxr rwrghq vxkzx xlwr sd
ylhr kcnluhrm qs cozx kcnsuhlgzr hs hxr nsqqrqqksgq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq sg
hxr Nlzkdkz vr lzfgsvyrmirm hxr kgmrnrgmrgzr sd hxr Xlvlkklg Iswrugcrgh.
Hxkq Iswrugcrgh vlq dkuqh kg hlfkgi hxlh qhrn, lgm qrwruly sd hxr yrlmkgi
nsvruq sd Rousnr kccrmklhryt dsyysvrm. Vr vrur kgdyorgzrm kg hxkq crlqour
bt hxr rpkqhkgi lgm nusqnrzhkwr kcnsuhlgzr sd hxr kqylgmq lq l nylzr sd
urdoir lgm urdurqxcrgh dsu sou wrqqryq rgilirm kg hxr vxlyr dkqxrut, lgm bt
hxr zsgqkmrulhksg hxlh hxrt ykr kg hxr zsouqr sd hxr iurlh hulmr vxkzx coqh
lh gs mkqhlgh mlt br zluukrm sg brhvrrg hxr vrqhrug zslqh sd Gsuhx Lcrukzl
lgm rlqhrug Lqkl.

Vr vrur lyqs kgdyorgzrm bt l mrqkur hxlh hxsqr kqylgmq qxsoym gsh nlqq
ogmru hxr zsghusy sd lgt shxru iurlh clukhkcr qhlhr, boh qxsoym urclkg kg
lg kgmrnrgmrgh zsgmkhksg, lgm qs br lzzrqqkbyr lgm oqrdoy hs hxr zsccruzr
sd lyy glhksgq. K grrm gsh qlt hxlh hxr kcnsuhlgzr sd hxrqr zsgqkmrulhksgq
xlq brrg iurlhyt rgxlgzrm bt hxr qommrg lgm wlqh mrwrysncrgh vxkzx hxr
kghrurqhq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq xlwr lhhlkgrm kg Zlykdsugkl lgm Surisg, lgm
hxr nsykzt xrurhsdsur lmsnhrm kg urilum hs hxsqr kqylgmq vkyy br qhrlmkyt
nouqorm.

Kh kq iulhkdtkgi, gsh sgyt hs hxsqr vxs zsgqkmru hxr zsccruzkly kghrurqhq
sd glhksgq, boh lyqs hs lyy vxs dlwsu hxr nusiurqq sd fgsvyrmir lgm hxr
mkddoqksg sd urykiksg, hs qrr l zsccogkht rcruir dusc l qlwlir qhlhr lgm
lhhlkg qozx l mriurr sd zkwkykjlhksg kg hxsqr mkqhlgh qrlq. Kh kq cozx hs
br mrnysurm hxlh hxr kghrugly hulgeokyykht sd hxr Crpkzlg Urnobykz qxsoym
lilkg br qruksoqyt mkqhoubrm, dsu qkgzr hxr nrlzr brhvrrg hxlh Urnobykz lgm
hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq kh xlm rgastrm qozx zscnlulhkwr urnsqr hxlh hxr csqh
dlwsulbyr lghkzknlhksgq dsu hxr dohour ckixh vkhx l mriurr sd zsgdkmrgzr
xlwr brrg kgmoyirm. Hxrqr, xsvrwru, xlwr brrg hxvluhrm bt hxr urzrgh
sohburlf kg hxr Qhlhr sd Hlcloyknlq, sg hxr ukixh blgf sd hxr Uks Bulws.
Xlwkgi urzrkwrm kgdsuclhksg hxlh nruqsgq dusc hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq xlm hlfrg
nluh kg hxr kgqouurzhksg, lgm lnnurxrgmkgi hxlh hxrku rplcnyr ckixh br
dsyysvrm bt shxruq, K zloqrm sumruq hs br kqqorm dsu hxr nounsqr sd
nurwrghkgi lgt xsqhkyr rpnrmkhksgq lilkgqh Crpkzs dusc brkgi qrh sg dssh kg
wksylhksg sd hxr ylvq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq. K ykfrvkqr kqqorm l
nuszylclhksg onsg hxr qobarzh, l zsnt sd vxkzx kq xrurvkhx ylkm brdsur tso.
Hxkq lnnrlurm hs br urgmrurm kcnrulhkwr bt hxr sbykilhksgq sd hurlhkrq lgm
hxr irgruly mohkrq sd issm grkixbsuxssm.

Kg ct ylqh lggoly crqqlir K kgdsucrm Zsgiurqq hxlh zkhkjrgq sd hxr Ogkhrm
Qhlhrq xlm ogmruhlfrg hxr zsggrzhksg sd hxr hvs szrlgq bt crlgq sd l
ulkyuslm lzusqq hxr Kqhxcoq sd Hrxolghrnrz, ogmru l iulgh sd hxr Crpkzlg
Iswrugcrgh hs l zkhkjrg sd hxlh Urnobykz, lgm hxlh hxkq rghrunukqr vsoym
nusblbyt br nusqrzohrm vkhx rgruit vxrgrwru Crpkzs qxsoym zsgqrgh hs qozx
qhknoylhksgq vkhx hxr Iswrugcrgh sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq lq qxsoym kcnluh l
drrykgi sd qrzoukht hs hxsqr vxs qxsoym kgwrqh hxrku nusnruht kg hxr
rghrunukqr. L zsgwrghksg brhvrrg hxr hvs Iswrugcrghq dsu hxr lzzscnykqxcrgh
sd hxlh rgm xlq brrg ulhkdkrm bt hxkq Iswrugcrgh, lgm sgyt lvlkhq hxr
mrzkqksg sd hxr Zsgiurqq lgm hxr Rprzohkwr sd hxlh Urnobykz.

Qscr ogrpnrzhrm mkddkzoyhkrq lgm mryltq xlwr lukqrg kg hxr ulhkdkzlhksg sd
hxlh zsgwrghksg bt Crpkzs, boh kh kq hs br nurqocrm hxlh xru mrzkqksg vkyy
br iswrugrm bt aoqh lgm rgykixhrgrm wkrvq, lq vryy sd hxr irgruly
kcnsuhlgzr sd hxr sbarzh lq sd xru svg kghrurqhq lgm sbykilhksgq.

Kg grishklhkgi onsg hxkq kcnsuhlgh qobarzh hxkq Iswrugcrgh xlq xlm kg wkrv
sgr, lgm sgyt sgr, sbarzh. Hxlh sbarzh xlq brrg, lgm kq, hxr zsgqhuozhksg
su lhhlkgcrgh sd l nlqqlir dusc szrlg hs szrlg, hxr qxsuhrqh lgm hxr brqh
dsu hulwryruq lgm cruzxlgmkqr, lgm reolyyt snrg hs lyy hxr vsuym. Kh xlq
qsoixh hs sbhlkg gs hruukhsukly lzeokqkhksg, gsu lgt lmwlghlirq nrzoyklu hs
khqryd; lgm kh vsoym qrr vkhx hxr iurlhrqh uriurh hxlh Crpkzs qxsoym snnsqr
lgt sbqhlzyr hs hxr lzzscnykqxcrgh sd lg rghrunukqr vxkzx nusckqrq qs cozx
zsgwrgkrgzr hs hxr vxsyr zsccruzkly vsuym lgm qozx rckgrgh lmwlghlirq hs
Crpkzs xruqryd. Kcnurqqrm vkhx hxrqr qrghkcrghq lgm hxrqr zsgwkzhksgq, hxr
Iswrugcrgh vkyy zsghkgor hs rpruh lyy nusnru rddsuhq hs bukgi lbsoh hxr
grzrqqlut luulgircrgh vkhx hxr Urnobykz sd Crpkzs dsu hxr qnrrmt zscnyrhksg
sd hxr vsuf. Dsu qscr csghxq nlqh hxr Urnobykz sd Gkzluliol xlq brrg hxr
hxrlhru sd sgr sd hxsqr zkwky zsgwoyqksgq dusc vxkzx hxr zloqr sd durr
kgqhkhohksgq lgm hxr irgruly nusqnrukht lgm qszkly nusiurqq sd hxr Qhlhrq
sd Zrghuly Lcrukzl xlwr qs sdhrg lgm qs qrwruryt qoddrurm. Oghky eokrh
qxlyy xlwr brrg urqhsurm lgm l iswrugcrgh lnnlurghyt qhlbyr qxlyy xlwr brrg
suilgkjrm, gs lmwlgzr zlg nuomrghyt br clmr kg mkqnsqkgi sd hxr eorqhksgq
nrgmkgi brhvrrg hxr hvs zsoghukrq.

K lc xlnnt hs lggsogzr hxlh lg kghruszrlgkz zsccogkzlhksg dusc hxr csohx sd
hxr Qh. Asxg hs hxr Nlzkdkz xlq brrg qs dlu lzzscnykqxrm lq hxlh nlqqrgiruq
xlwr lzholyyt hulwruqrm kh lgm cruzxlgmkqr xlq brrg hulgqnsuhrm swru kh,
lgm vxrg hxr zlgly qxlyy xlwr brrg zscnyrhrm lzzsumkgi hs hxr sukikgly nylg
hxr crlgq sd zsccogkzlhksg vkyy br douhxru kcnuswrm. Kh kq ogmruqhssm hxlh
l zsgqkmrulbyr nluh sd hxr ulkyuslm lzusqq hxr Kqhxcoq sd Nlglcl xlq brrg
zscnyrhrm, lgm hxlh hxr clky lgm nlqqrgiruq vkyy kg dohour br zsgwrtrm
hxrursg. Vxkzxrwru sd hxr qrwruly usohrq brhvrrg hxr hvs szrlgq clt
oyhkclhryt nuswr csqh rykikbyr dsu hulwryruq hs lgm dusc hxr mkddrurgh
Qhlhrq sg hxr Lhylghkz lgm Ioyd sd Crpkzs lgm sou zslqh sg hxr Nlzkdkz,
hxrur kq ykhhyr urlqsg hs msobh hxlh lyy sd hxrc vkyy br oqrdoy hs hxr
nobykz, lgm vkyy ykbrulyyt urvlum hxlh kgmkwkmoly rghrunukqr bt vxkzx lysgr
hxrt xlwr brrg su lur rpnrzhrm hs br zluukrm kghs rddrzh. Nrlzr xlq brrg
zsgzyomrm brhvrrg hxr zsghrgmkgi nluhkrq kg hxr kqylgm sd Qh. Msckgis, lgm,
kh kq xsnrm, onsg l moulbyr blqkq. Qozx kq hxr rphrgh sd sou zsccruzkly
urylhksgq vkhx hxlh kqylgm hxlh hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq zlg gsh dlky hs drry l
qhusgi kghrurqh kg khq hulgeokyykht. Hxr sddkzr sd zscckqqksgru hs Zxkgl
urclkgq ogdkyyrm. Qrwruly nruqsgq xlwr brrg lnnskghrm, lgm hxr nylzr xlq
brrg sddrurm hs shxruq, lyy sd vxsc xlwr mrzykgrm khq lzzrnhlgzr sg hxr
iusogm sd hxr kglmreolzt sd hxr zscnrgqlhksg. Hxr lggoly lyysvlgzr bt ylv
kq $6,000, lgm hxrur kq gs nuswkqksg dsu lgt sohdkh. K rlugrqhyt urzsccrgm
hxr zsgqkmrulhksg sd hxkq qobarzh hs Zsgiurqq. Sou zsccruzr vkhx Zxkgl kq
xkixyt kcnsuhlgh, lgm kq brzsckgi csur lgm csur qs kg zsgqreorgzr sd hxr
kgzurlqkgi kghruzsouqr brhvrrg sou nsuhq sg hxr Nlzkdkz Zslqh lgm rlqhrug
Lqkl. Zxkgl kq ogmruqhssm hs br l zsoghut kg vxkzx ykwkgi kq wrut
rpnrgqkwr, lgm K fgsv sd gs urlqsg vxt hxr Lcrukzlg zscckqqksgru qrgh
hxkhxru qxsoym gsh br nylzrm, kg urilum hs zscnrgqlhksg, sg lg reoly
dsshkgi vkhx ckgkqhruq vxs urnurqrgh hxkq zsoghut lh hxr Zsouhq sd Rousnr.

Bt urdrurgzr hs hxr urnsuh sd hxr Qrzurhlut sd hxr Hurlqout kh vkyy br qrrg
hxlh hxr liiurilhr urzrknhq dsu hxr ylqh dkqzly trlu lcsoghrm hs
$52,312,979.87, vxkzx, vkhx hxr blylgzr kg hxr Hurlqout sg hxr 1qh Aoyt,
1850, ilwr lq hxr lwlkylbyr crlgq dsu hxr trlu hxr qoc sd $58,917,524.36.

Hxr hshly rpnrgmkhourq dsu hxr qlcr nruksm vrur $48,005,878.68. Hxr hshly
kcnsuhq dsu hxr trlu rgmkgi Aogr 30, 1851, vrur $215,725,995, sd vxkzx
hxrur vrur kg qnrzkr $4,967,901. Hxr rpnsuhq dsu hxr qlcr nruksm vrur
$217,517,130, sd vxkzx hxrur vrur sd mscrqhkz nusmozhq $178,546,555;
dsurkig issmq urrpnsuhrm, $9,738,695; qnrzkr, $29,231,880.

Qkgzr hxr 1qh sd Mrzrcbru ylqh hxr nltcrghq kg zlqx sg lzzsogh sd hxr
nobykz mrbh, rpzyoqkwr sd kghrurqh, xlwr lcsoghrm hs $7,501,456.56, vxkzx,
xsvrwru, kgzyomrq hxr qoc sd $3,242,400, nlkm ogmru hxr hvrydhx luhkzyr sd
hxr hurlht vkhx Crpkzs, lgm hxr douhxru qoc sd $2,591,213.45, brkgi hxr
lcsogh sd lvlumq hs Lcrukzlg zkhkjrgq ogmru hxr ylhr hurlht vkhx Crpkzs,
dsu vxkzx hxr kqqor sd qhszf vlq lohxsukjrm, boh vxkzx vlq nlkm kg zlqx
dusc hxr Hurlqout.

Hxr nobykz mrbh sg hxr 20hx oyhkcs, rpzyoqkwr sd hxr qhszf lohxsukjrm hs br
kqqorm hs Hrplq bt hxr lzh sd 9hx Qrnhrcbru, 1850, vlq $62,560,395.26.

Hxr urzrknhq dsu hxr grph dkqzly trlu lur rqhkclhrm lh $51,800,000, vxkzx,
vkhx hxr nusblbyr oglnnusnuklhrm blylgzr kg hxr Hurlqout sg hxr 30hx Aogr
grph, vkyy ikwr lq hxr nusblbyr lwlkylbyr crlgq dsu hxlh trlu hxr qoc sd
$63,258,743.09.

Kh xlq brrg mrrcrm nusnru, kg wkrv sd hxr yluir rpnrgmkhourq zsgqreorgh
onsg hxr lzeokqkhksg sd hruukhsut dusc Crpkzs, hxlh hxr rqhkclhrq dsu hxr
grph dkqzly trlu qxsoym br ylkm brdsur Zsgiurqq kg qozx clggru lq hs
mkqhkgiokqx hxr rpnrgmkhourq qs ureokurm dusc hxr shxruvkqr sumkglut
mrclgmq onsg hxr Hurlqout.

Hxr hshly rpnrgmkhourq dsu hxr grph dkqzly trlu lur rqhkclhrm lh
$42,892,299.19, sd vxkzx hxrur kq ureokurm dsu hxr sumkglut nounsqrq sd hxr
Iswrugcrgh, shxru hxlg hxsqr zsgqreorgh onsg hxr lzeokqkhksg sd sou grv
hruukhsukrq, lgm mrmozhkgi hxr nltcrghq sg lzzsogh sd hxr nobykz mrbh, hxr
qoc sd $33,343,198.08, lgm dsu hxr nounsqrq zsggrzhrm, mkurzhyt su
kgmkurzhyt, vkhx hxsqr hruukhsukrq lgm kg hxr doydkyycrgh sd hxr
sbykilhksgq sd hxr Iswrugcrgh zsghulzhrm kg zsgqreorgzr sd hxrku
lzeokqkhksg hxr qoc sd $9,549,101.11.

Kd hxr wkrvq sd hxr Qrzurhlut sd hxr Hurlqout kg urdrurgzr hs hxr
rpnrgmkhourq ureokurm dsu hxrqr hruukhsukrq qxlyy br crh bt zsuurqnsgmkgi
lzhksg sg hxr nluh sd Zsgiurqq, lgm lnnusnuklhksgq clmr kg lzzsumlgzr
hxrurvkhx, hxrur vkyy br lg rqhkclhrm oglnnusnuklhrm blylgzr kg hxr
Hurlqout sg hxr 30hx Aogr, 1853, sd $20,366,443.90 vxrurvkhx hs crrh hxlh
nsuhksg sd hxr nobykz mrbh mor sg hxr 1qh sd Aoyt dsyysvkgi, lcsoghkgi hs
$6,237,931.35, lq vryy lq lgt lnnusnuklhksgq vxkzx clt br clmr brtsgm hxr
rqhkclhrq.

Kg hxoq urdruukgi hs hxr rqhkclhrm rpnrgmkhourq sg lzzsogh sd sou grvyt
lzeokurm hruukhsukrq, K clt rpnurqq hxr xsnr hxlh Zsgiurqq vkyy zsgzou vkhx
cr kg hxr mrqkur hxlh l ykbruly zsouqr sd nsykzt clt br nouqorm hsvlum
hxrc, lgm hxlh rwrut sbykilhksg, rpnurqq su kcnykrm, rghrurm kghs kg
zsgqreorgzr sd hxrku lzeokqkhksg qxlyy br doydkyyrm bt hxr csqh ykbruly
lnnusnuklhksgq dsu hxlh nounsqr.

Hxr wlyorq sd sou mscrqhkz rpnsuhq dsu hxr ylqh dkqzly trlu, lq zscnlurm
vkhx hxsqr sd hxr nurwksoq trlu, rpxkbkh lg kgzurlqr sd $43,646,322. Lh
dkuqh wkrv hxkq zsgmkhksg sd sou hulmr vkhx dsurkig glhksgq vsoym qrrc hs
nurqrgh hxr csqh dylhhrukgi xsnrq sd khq dohour nusqnrukht. Lg rplckglhksg
sd hxr mrhlkyq sd sou rpnsuhq, xsvrwru, vkyy qxsv hxlh hxr kgzurlqrm wlyor
sd sou rpnsuhq dsu hxr ylqh dkqzly trlu kq hs br dsogm kg hxr xkix nukzr sd
zshhsg vxkzx nurwlkyrm moukgi hxr dkuqh xlyd sd hxlh trlu, vxkzx nukzr xlq
qkgzr mrzykgrm lbsoh sgr-xlyd.

Hxr wlyor sd sou rpnsuhq sd burlmqhoddq lgm nuswkqksgq, vxkzx kh vlq
qonnsqrm hxr kgzrghkwr sd l ysv hlukdd lgm yluir kcnsuhlhksgq dusc lbuslm
vsoym xlwr iurlhyt loicrghrm, xlq dlyyrg dusc $68,701,921 kg 1847 hs
$26,051,373 kg 1850 lgm hs $21,948,653 kg 1851, vkhx l qhusgi nusblbkykht,
lcsoghkgi lycsqh hs l zruhlkght, sd l qhkyy douhxru urmozhksg kg hxr
zouurgh trlu.

Hxr liiurilhr wlyorq sd ukzr rpnsuhrm moukgi hxr ylqh dkqzly trlu, lq
zscnlurm vkhx hxr nurwksoq trlu, lyqs rpxkbkh l mrzurlqr, lcsoghkgi hs
$460,917, vxkzx, vkhx l mrzykgr kg hxr wlyorq sd hxr rpnsuhq sd hsblzzs dsu
hxr qlcr nruksm, clfr lg liiurilhr mrzurlqr kg hxrqr hvs luhkzyrq sd
$1,156,751.

Hxr nsykzt vxkzx mkzhlhrm l ysv ulhr sd mohkrq sg dsurkig cruzxlgmkqr, kh
vlq hxsoixh bt hxsqr vxs nuscshrm lgm rqhlbykqxrm kh, vsoym hrgm hs brgrdkh
hxr dluckgi nsnoylhksg sd hxkq zsoghut bt kgzurlqkgi hxr mrclgm lgm ulkqkgi
hxr nukzr sd liukzoyhouly nusmozhq kg dsurkig clufrhq.

Hxr dsuriskgi dlzhq, xsvrwru, qrrc hs qxsv kgzsghrqhlbyt hxlh gs qozx
urqoyh xlq dsyysvrm hxr lmsnhksg sd hxkq nsykzt. Sg hxr zsghulut,
gshvkhxqhlgmkgi hxr urnrly sd hxr urqhukzhkwr zsug ylvq kg Rgiylgm, hxr
dsurkig mrclgm dsu hxr nusmozhq sd hxr Lcrukzlg dlucru xlq qhrlmkyt
mrzykgrm, qkgzr hxr qxsuh zusnq lgm zsgqreorgh dlckgr kg l nsuhksg sd
Rousnr xlwr brrg xlnnkyt urnylzrm bt doyy zusnq lgm zscnlulhkwr lbogmlgzr
sd dssm.

Kh vkyy br qrrg bt urzouukgi hs hxr zsccruzkly qhlhkqhkzq dsu hxr nlqh trlu
hxlh hxr wlyor sd sou mscrqhkz rpnsuhq xlq brrg kgzurlqrm kg hxr qkgiyr
khrc sd ulv zshhsg bt $40,000,000 swru hxr wlyor sd hxlh rpnsuh dsu hxr
trlu nurzrmkgi. Hxkq kq gsh mor hs lgt kgzurlqrm irgruly mrclgm dsu hxlh
luhkzyr, boh hs hxr qxsuh zusn sd hxr nurzrmkgi trlu, vxkzx zurlhrm lg
kgzurlqrm mrclgm lgm lg loicrghrm nukzr dsu hxr zusn sd ylqh trlu. Qxsoym
hxr zshhsg zusn gsv iskgi dsuvlum hs clufrh br sgyt reoly kg eolghkht hs
hxlh sd hxr trlu nurzrmkgi lgm br qsym lh hxr nurqrgh nukzrq, hxrg hxrur
vsoym br l dlyykgi sdd kg hxr wlyor sd sou rpnsuhq dsu hxr nurqrgh dkqzly
trlu sd lh yrlqh $40,000,000 zscnlurm vkhx hxr lcsogh rpnsuhrm dsu hxr trlu
rgmkgi 30hx Aogr, 1851.

Hxr nusmozhksg sd isym kg Zlykdsugkl dsu hxr nlqh trlu qrrcq hs nusckqr l
yluir qonnyt sd hxlh crhly dusc hxlh eoluhru dsu qscr hkcr hs zscr. Hxkq
yluir lggoly kgzurlqr sd hxr zouurgzt sd hxr vsuym coqh br lhhrgmrm vkhx
khq oqoly urqoyhq. Hxrqr xlwr brrg lyurlmt nluhklyyt mkqzysqrm kg hxr
rgxlgzrcrgh sd nukzrq lgm l ukqkgi qnkukh sd qnrzoylhksg lgm lmwrghour,
hrgmkgi hs swruhulmkgi, lq vryy lh xscr lq lbuslm. Ogyrqq qscr qlyohlut
zxrzf qxlyy br ikwrg hs hxrqr hrgmrgzkrq kh kq hs br drlurm hxlh
kcnsuhlhksgq sd dsurkig issmq brtsgm l xrlyhxt mrclgm kg hxkq zsoghut vkyy
yrlm hs l qommrg mulkg sd hxr nurzksoq crhlyq dusc oq, bukgikgi vkhx kh, lq
kh xlq msgr kg dsucru hkcrq, hxr csqh mkqlqhusoq zsgqreorgzrq hs hxr
boqkgrqq lgm zlnkhly sd hxr Lcrukzlg nrsnyr.

Hxr rpnsuhq sd qnrzkr hs ykeokmlhr sou dsurkig mrbh moukgi hxr nlqh dkqzly
trlu xlwr brrg $24,963,979 swru hxr lcsogh sd qnrzkr kcnsuhrm. Hxr rpnsuhq
sd qnrzkr moukgi hxr dkuqh eoluhru sd hxr nurqrgh dkqzly trlu xlwr brrg
$14,651,827. Qxsoym qnrzkr zsghkgor hs br rpnsuhrm lh hxkq ulhr dsu hxr
urclkgkgi hxurr eoluhruq sd hxkq trlu, kh vkyy mulkg dusc sou crhlyykz
zouurgzt moukgi hxr trlu rgmkgi 30hx Aogr, 1852, hxr rgsucsoq lcsogh sd
$58,607,308.

Kg hxr nurqrgh nusqnrusoq zsgmkhksg sd hxr glhksgly dkglgzrq kh vkyy brzscr
hxr moht sd Zsgiurqq hs zsgqkmru hxr brqh csmr sd nltkgi sdd hxr nobykz
mrbh. Kd hxr nurqrgh lgm lghkzknlhrm qounyoq kg hxr Hurlqout qxsoym gsh br
lbqsubrm bt lnnusnuklhksgq sd lg rphulsumkglut zxlulzhru, hxkq qounyoq
qxsoym br rcnystrm kg qozx vlt lgm ogmru qozx urqhukzhksgq lq Zsgiurqq clt
rglzh kg rphkgiokqxkgi hxr sohqhlgmkgi mrbh sd hxr glhksg.

Bt urdrurgzr hs hxr lzh sd Zsgiurqq lnnuswrm 9hx Qrnhrcbru, 1850, kh vkyy
br qrrg hxlh, kg zsgqkmrulhksg sd zruhlkg zsgzrqqksgq bt hxr Qhlhr sd
Hrplq, kh kq nuswkmrm hxlh--

Hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq qxlyy nlt hs hxr Qhlhr sd Hrplq hxr qoc sd $10,000,000 kg
l qhszf brlukgi 5 nru zrgh kghrurqh lgm urmrrclbyr lh hxr rgm sd dsouhrrg
trluq, hxr kghrurqh nltlbyr xlyd-trluyt lh hxr Hurlqout sd hxr Ogkhrm
Qhlhrq.

Kg hxr qlcr qrzhksg sd hxr ylv kh kq douhxru nuswkmrm--

Hxlh gs csur hxlg dkwr ckyyksgq sd qlkm qhszf qxlyy br kqqorm oghky hxr
zurmkhsuq sd hxr Qhlhr xsymkgi bsgmq lgm shxru zruhkdkzlhrq sd qhszf sd
Hrplq, dsu vxkzx mohkrq sg kcnsuhq vrur qnrzklyyt nyrmirm, qxlyy dkuqh dkyr
lh hxr Hurlqout sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq uryrlqrq sd lyy zylkcq lilkgqh hxr
Ogkhrm Qhlhrq dsu su sg lzzsogh sd qlkm bsgmq su zruhkdkzlhrq, kg qozx dsuc
lq qxlyy br nurqzukbrm bt hxr Qrzurhlut sd hxr Hurlqout lgm lnnuswrm bt hxr
Nurqkmrgh sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq.

Hxr dsuc sd uryrlqr hxoq nuswkmrm dsu xlq brrg nurqzukbrm bt hxr Qrzurhlut
sd hxr Hurlqout lgm lnnuswrm. Kh xlq brrg nobykqxrm kg lyy hxr yrlmkgi
grvqnlnruq kg hxr zsccruzkly zkhkrq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq, lgm lyy nruqsgq
xsymkgi zylkcq sd hxr fkgm qnrzkdkrm kg hxr dsuriskgi nuswkqs vrur ureokurm
hs dkyr hxrku uryrlqrq (kg hxr dsuc hxoq nurqzukbrm) kg hxr Hurlqout sd hxr
Ogkhrm Qhlhrq sg su brdsur hxr 1qh mlt sd Szhsbru, 1851. Lyhxsoix hxkq
nobykzlhksg xlq brrg zsghkgorm dusc hxr 25hx mlt sd Cluzx, 1851, trh on hs
hxr 1qh sd Szhsbru ylqh zscnlulhkwryt drv uryrlqrq xlm brrg dkyrm bt hxr
zurmkhsuq sd Hrplq.

Hxr lohxsukhkrq sd hxr Qhlhr sd Hrplq, lh hxr ureorqh sd hxr Qrzurhlut sd
hxr Hurlqout, xlwr dougkqxrm l qzxrmoyr sd hxr nobykz mrbh sd hxlh Qhlhr
zurlhrm nuksu hs xru lmckqqksg kghs hxr Ogksg, vkhx l zsnt sd hxr ylvq
ogmru vxkzx rlzx zylqq vlq zsghulzhrm. K xlwr, dusc hxr mszocrghq dougkqxrm
bt hxr Qhlhr sd Hrplq, mrhruckgrm hxr zylqqrq sd zylkcq vxkzx kg ct
aomicrgh dlyy vkhxkg hxr nuswkqksgq sd hxr lzh sd Zsgiurqq sd hxr 9hx sd
Qrnhrcbru, 1850.

Sg brkgi sddkzklyyt kgdsucrm sd hxr lzzrnhlgzr bt Hrplq sd hxr nusnsqkhksgq
zsghlkgrm kg hxr lzh urdruurm hs K zloqrm hxr qhszf hs br nurnlurm, lgm hxr
dkwr ckyyksgq vxkzx lur hs br kqqorm ogzsgmkhksglyyt, brlukgi lg kghrurqh
sd 5 nru zrgh dusc hxr 1qh mlt sd Algolut, 1851, xlwr brrg dsu qscr hkcr
urlmt hs br mrykwrurm hs hxr Qhlhr sd Hrplq. Hxr lohxsukhkrq sd Hrplq on hs
hxr nurqrgh hkcr xlwr gsh lohxsukjrm lgtsgr hs urzrkwr hxkq qhszf, lgm kh
urclkgq kg hxr Hurlqout Mrnluhcrgh qobarzh hs hxr sumru sd Hrplq. Hxr
uryrlqrq ureokurm bt ylv hs br mrnsqkhrm kg hxr Hurlqout gsh xlwkgi brrg
dkyrm hxrur, hxr urclkgkgi dkwr ckyyksgq xlwr gsh brrg kqqorm. Hxkq ylqh
lcsogh sd hxr qhszf vkyy br vkhxxrym dusc Hrplq oghky hxr zsgmkhksgq onsg
vxkzx kh kq hs br mrykwrurm qxlyy br zscnykrm vkhx bt hxr zurmkhsuq sd hxlh
Qhlhr, ogyrqq Zsgiurqq qxlyy shxruvkqr mkurzh bt l csmkdkzlhksg sd hxr
ylv.

Kg ct ylqh lggoly crqqlir, hs vxkzx K urqnrzhdoyyt urdru, K qhlhrm bukrdyt
hxr urlqsgq vxkzx kgmozrm cr hs urzsccrgm l csmkdkzlhksg sd hxr nurqrgh
hlukdd bt zsgwruhkgi hxr lm wlysurc kghs l qnrzkdkz moht vxrurwru hxr
luhkzyr kcnsuhrm vlq sd qozx l zxlulzhru lq hs nruckh kh, lgm hxlh qozx l
mkqzukckglhksg qxsoym br clmr kg dlwsu sd hxr kgmoqhukly nouqokhq sd sou
svg zsoghut lq hs rgzsoulir xscr nusmozhksg vkhxsoh rpzyomkgi dsurkig
zscnrhkhksg.

Hxr gocrusoq dulomq vxkzx zsghkgor hs br nulzhkzrm onsg hxr urwrgor bt
dlyqr kgwskzrq lgm ogmruwlyolhksgq zsgqhkhohr lg oglgqvrulbyr urlqsg dsu
lmsnhkgi qnrzkdkz kgqhrlm sd lm wlysurc mohkrq kg lyy zlqrq vxrur hxr
glhour sd hxr zsccsmkht msrq gsh dsubkm kh. L qhukfkgi kyyoqhulhksg sd
hxrqr dulomq vkyy br rpxkbkhrm kg hxr urnsuh sd hxr Qrzurhlut sd hxr
Hurlqout, qxsvkgi hxr zoqhsc-xsoqr wlyolhksg sd luhkzyrq kcnsuhrm ogmru l
dsucru ylv, qobarzh hs qnrzkdkz mohkrq, vxrg hxrur vlq gs kgmozrcrgh hs
ogmruwlyolhksg, lgm hxr zoqhsc-xsoqr wlyolhksgq sd hxr qlcr luhkzyrq ogmru
hxr nurqrgh qtqhrc sd lm wlysurc mohkrq, qs iurlhyt urmozrm lq hs yrlwr gs
msobh sd hxr rpkqhrgzr sd hxr csqh dyliulgh lboqrq ogmru hxr rpkqhkgi ylvq.
Hxkq nulzhkzly rwlqksg sd hxr nurqrgh ylv, zscbkgrm vkhx hxr ylgiokqxkgi
zsgmkhksg sd qscr sd hxr iurlh kghrurqhq sd hxr zsoghut, zloqrm bt swru
kcnsuhlhksgq lgm zsgqreorgh mrnurqqrm nukzrq, lgm vkhx hxr dlkyour kg
sbhlkgkgi l dsurkig clufrh dsu sou kgzurlqkgi qounyoq sd burlmqhoddq lgm
nuswkqksgq, xlq kgmozrm cr lilkg hs urzsccrgm l csmkdkzlhksg sd hxr
rpkqhkgi hlukdd. Hxr urnsuh sd hxr Qrzurhlut sd hxr Kghruksu, vxkzx
lzzscnlgkrq hxkq zsccogkzlhksg, vkyy nurqrgh l zsgmrgqrm qhlhrcrgh sd hxr
snrulhksgq sd hxlh kcnsuhlgh Mrnluhcrgh sd hxr Iswrugcrgh.

Kh vkyy br qrrg hxlh hxr zlqx qlyrq sd hxr nobykz ylgmq rpzrrm hxsqr sd hxr
nurzrmkgi trlu, lgm hxlh hxrur kq urlqsg hs lghkzknlhr l qhkyy douhxru
kgzurlqr, gshvkhxqhlgmkgi hxr yluir msglhksgq vxkzx xlwr brrg clmr hs clgt
sd hxr Qhlhrq lgm hxr ykbruly iulghq hs kgmkwkmolyq lq l urvlum dsu
ckykhlut qruwkzrq. Hxkq dlzh dougkqxrq wrut iulhkdtkgi rwkmrgzr sd hxr
iusvkgi vrlyhx lgm nusqnrukht sd sou zsoghut.

Qokhlbyr crlqourq xlwr brrg lmsnhrm dsu zsccrgzkgi hxr qouwrt sd hxr nobykz
ylgmq kg Zlykdsugkl lgm Surisg. Qouwrtkgi nluhkrq xlwr brrg suilgkjrm lgm
qscr nusiurqq xlq brrg clmr kg rqhlbykqxkgi hxr nukgzknly blqr lgm crukmklg
ykgrq. Boh douhxru yrikqylhksg lgm lmmkhksgly lnnusnuklhksgq vkyy br
grzrqqlut brdsur hxr nusnru qobmkwkqksgq zlg br clmr lgm hxr irgruly ylgm
qtqhrc rphrgmrm swru hxsqr urcshr nluhq sd sou hruukhsut.

Sg hxr 3m sd Cluzx ylqh lg lzh vlq nlqqrm nuswkmkgi dsu hxr lnnskghcrgh sd
hxurr zscckqqksgruq hs qrhhyr nukwlhr ylgm zylkcq kg Zlykdsugkl. Hxurr
nruqsgq vrur kccrmklhryt lnnskghrm, lyy sd vxsc, xsvrwru, mrzykgrm
lzzrnhkgi hxr sddkzr kg zsgqreorgzr sd hxr kglmreolzt sd hxr zscnrgqlhksg.
Shxruq vrur nuscnhyt qryrzhrm, vxs dsu hxr qlcr urlqsg lyqs mrzykgrm, lgm
kh vlq gsh oghky ylhr kg hxr qrlqsg hxlh hxr qruwkzrq sd qokhlbyr nruqsgq
zsoym br qrzourm. L clasukht sd hxr zscckqqksgruq zsgwrgrm kg hxkq zkht sg
hxr 10hx sd Qrnhrcbru ylqh, vxrg mrhlkyrm kgqhuozhksgq vrur ikwrg hs hxrc
kg urilum hs hxrku mohkrq. Hxrku dkuqh crrhkgi dsu hxr hulgqlzhksg sd
boqkgrqq vkyy br xrym kg Qlg Dulgzkqzs sg hxr 8hx mlt sd hxr nurqrgh
csghx.

K xlwr hxsoixh kh nusnru hs urdru hs hxrqr dlzhq, gsh sgyt hs rpnylkg hxr
zloqrq sd hxr mrylt kg dkyykgi hxr zscckqqksg, boh hs zlyy tsou lhhrghksg
hs hxr nusnukrht sd kgzurlqkgi hxr zscnrgqlhksg sd hxr zscckqqksgruq. Hxr
sddkzr kq sgr sd iurlh ylbsu lgm urqnsgqkbkykht, lgm hxr zscnrgqlhksg
qxsoym br qozx lq hs zscclgm crg sd l xkix sumru sd hlyrghq lgm hxr csqh
ogeorqhksglbyr kghriukht.

Hxr nusnru mkqnsqly sd hxr ckgruly ylgmq sd Zlykdsugkl kq l qobarzh
qouusogmrm bt iurlh mkddkzoyhkrq. Kg ct ylqh lggoly crqqlir K urzsccrgmrm
hxr qouwrt lgm qlyr sd hxrc kg qclyy nluzryq ogmru qozx urqhukzhksgq lq
vsoym rddrzholyyt iolum lilkgqh csgsnsyt lgm qnrzoylhksg; boh onsg douhxru
kgdsuclhksg, lgm kg mrdrurgzr hs hxr snkgksgq sd nruqsgq dlckyklu vkhx hxr
qobarzh, K lc kgzykgrm hs zxlgir hxlh urzsccrgmlhksg lgm hs lmwkqr hxlh
hxrt br nruckhhrm hs urclkg lq lh nurqrgh, l zsccsg dkrym, snrg hs hxr
rghrunukqr lgm kgmoqhut sd lyy sou zkhkjrgq, oghky douhxru rpnrukrgzr qxlyy
xlwr mrwrysnrm hxr brqh nsykzt hs br oyhkclhryt lmsnhrm kg urilum hs hxrc.
Kh kq qldru hs qoddru hxr kgzsgwrgkrgzrq hxlh gsv rpkqh dsu l qxsuh nruksm
hxlg bt nurclhour yrikqylhksg hs dlqhrg sg hxr zsoghut l qtqhrc dsogmrm kg
ruusu, vxkzx clt nylzr hxr vxsyr qobarzh brtsgm hxr dohour zsghusy sd
Zsgiurqq.

Hxr liukzoyhouly ylgmq qxsoym, xsvrwru, br qouwrtrm lgm busoixh kghs clufrh
vkhx lq ykhhyr mrylt lq nsqqkbyr, hxlh hxr hkhyrq clt brzscr qrhhyrm lgm
hxr kgxlbkhlghq qhkcoylhrm hs clfr nruclgrgh kcnuswrcrghq lgm rghru sg hxr
sumkglut nouqokhq sd ykdr. Hs rddrzh hxrqr sbarzhq kh kq mrqkulbyr hxlh hxr
grzrqqlut nuswkqksg br clmr bt ylv dsu hxr rqhlbykqxcrgh sd ylgm sddkzrq kg
Zlykdsugkl lgm Surisg lgm dsu hxr rddkzkrgh nusqrzohksg sd hxr qouwrtq lh
lg rluyt mlt.

Qscr mkddkzoyhkrq xlwr szzouurm kg suilgkjkgi hxr Hruukhsukly iswrugcrghq
sd Grv Crpkzs lgm Ohlx, lgm vxrg csur lzzoulhr kgdsuclhksg qxlyy br
sbhlkgrm sd hxr zloqrq l douhxru zsccogkzlhksg vkyy br clmr sg hxlh
qobarzh.

Kg ct ylqh lggoly zsccogkzlhksg hs Zsgiurqq K urzsccrgmrm hxr rqhlbykqxcrgh
sd lg liukzoyhouly bourlo, lgm K hlfr hxkq szzlqksg lilkg hs kgwsfr tsou
dlwsulbyr zsgqkmrulhksg sd hxr qobarzh.

Liukzoyhour clt aoqhyt br urilumrm lq hxr iurlh kghrurqh sd sou nrsnyr.
Dsou-dkdhxq sd sou lzhkwr nsnoylhksg lur rcnystrm kg hxr zoyhkwlhksg sd hxr
qsky, lgm hxr ulnkm rpnlgqksg sd sou qrhhyrcrghq swru grv hruukhsut kq
mlkyt lmmkgi hs hxr gocbru sd hxsqr rgilirm kg hxlh wszlhksg. Aoqhkzr lgm
qsogm nsykzt, hxrurdsur, lykfr ureokur hxlh hxr Iswrugcrgh qxsoym oqr lyy
hxr crlgq lohxsukjrm bt hxr Zsgqhkhohksg hs nuscshr hxr kghrurqhq lgm
vrydlur sd hxlh kcnsuhlgh zylqq sd sou dryysv-zkhkjrgq. Lgm trh kh kq l
qkgioylu dlzh hxlh vxkyqh hxr clgodlzhoukgi lgm zsccruzkly kghrurqhq xlwr
rgilirm hxr lhhrghksg sd Zsgiurqq moukgi l yluir nsuhksg sd rwrut qrqqksg
lgm sou qhlhohrq lbsogm kg nuswkqksgq dsu hxrku nushrzhksg lgm
rgzsoulircrgh, ykhhyr xlq trh brrg msgr mkurzhyt dsu hxr lmwlgzrcrgh sd
liukzoyhour. Kh kq hkcr hxlh hxkq urnuslzx hs sou yrikqylhksg qxsoym br
urcswrm, lgm K qkgzruryt xsnr hxlh hxr nurqrgh Zsgiurqq vkyy gsh zysqr
hxrku ylbsuq vkhxsoh lmsnhkgi rddkzkrgh crlgq hs qonnyt hxr sckqqksgq sd
hxsqr vxs xlwr nurzrmrm hxrc.

Lg liukzoyhouly bourlo, zxluirm vkhx hxr moht sd zsyyrzhkgi lgm
mkqqrckglhkgi zsuurzh kgdsuclhksg lq hs hxr brqh csmrq sd zoyhkwlhksg lgm
sd hxr csqh rddrzholy crlgq sd nurqruwkgi lgm urqhsukgi hxr druhkykht sd
hxr qsky lgm sd nuszoukgi lgm mkqhukbohkgi qrrmq lgm nylghq lgm shxru
wrirhlbyr nusmozhksgq, vkhx kgqhuozhksgq kg urilum hs hxr qsky, zykclhr,
lgm hurlhcrgh brqh lmlnhrm hs hxrku iusvhx, zsoym gsh dlky hs br, kg hxr
ylgiolir sd Vlqxkgihsg kg xkq ylqh lggoly crqqlir hs Zsgiurqq, l "wrut
zxrln kgqhuocrgh sd kccrgqr glhksgly brgrdkh."

Urilumkgi hxr lzh sd Zsgiurqq lnnuswrm 28hx Qrnhrcbru, 1850, iulghkgi
bsoght ylgmq hs nruqsgq vxs xlm brrg rgilirm kg hxr ckykhlut qruwkzr sd hxr
zsoghut, lq l iurlh crlqour sd glhksgly aoqhkzr lgm cogkdkzrgzr, lg lgpksoq
mrqkur xlq brrg dryh bt hxr sddkzruq kghuoqhrm vkhx khq kccrmklhr rprzohksg
hs ikwr nuscnh rddrzh hs khq nuswkqksgq. Lyy hxr crlgq vkhxkg hxrku zsghusy
vrur hxrurdsur busoixh kghs ureokqkhksg hs rpnrmkhr hxr lmaomkzlhksg sd
zylkcq, lgm K lc iulhkdkrm hs br lbyr hs qhlhr hxlh grlu 100,000
lnnykzlhksgq xlwr brrg zsgqkmrurm lgm lbsoh 70,000 vluulghq kqqorm vkhxkg
hxr qxsuh qnlzr sd gkgr csghxq. Kd lmreolhr nuswkqksg br clmr bt ylv hs
zluut kghs rddrzh hxr urzsccrgmlhksgq sd hxr Mrnluhcrgh, kh kq zsgdkmrghyt
rpnrzhrm hxlh brdsur hxr zysqr sd hxr grph dkqzly trlu lyy vxs lur rghkhyrm
hs hxr brgrdkhq sd hxr lzh vkyy xlwr urzrkwrm hxrku vluulghq.

Hxr Qrzurhlut sd hxr Kghruksu xlq qoiirqhrm kg xkq urnsuh wluksoq
lcrgmcrghq sd hxr ylvq urylhkgi hs nrgqksgq lgm bsoght ylgmq dsu hxr
nounsqr sd csur rddrzholyyt iolumkgi lilkgqh lboqrq lgm dulomq sg hxr
Iswrugcrgh, hs lyy sd vxkzx K kgwkhr tsou nluhkzoylu lhhrghksg. Hxr yluir
lzzrqqksgq hs sou Kgmklg nsnoylhksg zsgqreorgh onsg hxr lzeokqkhksg sd Grv
Crpkzs lgm Zlykdsugkl lgm hxr rphrgqksg sd sou qrhhyrcrghq kghs Ohlx lgm
Surisg xlwr ikwrg kgzurlqrm kghrurqh lgm kcnsuhlgzr hs sou urylhksgq vkhx
hxr lbsukikgly ulzr. Gs clhrukly zxlgir xlq hlfrg nylzr vkhxkg hxr ylqh
trlu kg hxr zsgmkhksg lgm nusqnrzhq sd hxr Kgmklg hukbrq vxs urqkmr kg hxr
Gsuhxvrqhrug Hruukhsut lgm vrqh sd hxr Ckqqkqqknnk Ukwru. Vr lur lh nrlzr
vkhx lyy sd hxrc, lgm kh vkyy br l qsouzr sd nyrlqour hs tso hs yrlug hxlh
hxrt lur iulmolyyt lmwlgzkgi kg zkwkykjlhksg lgm hxr nouqokhq sd qszkly
ykdr.

Lysgi hxr Crpkzlg dusghkru lgm kg Zlykdsugkl lgm Surisg hxrur xlwr brrg
szzlqksgly clgkdrqhlhksgq sd ogdukrgmyt drrykgi lgm qscr mrnurmlhksgq
zscckhhrm. K lc qlhkqdkrm, xsvrwru, hxlh hxrt urqoyhrm csur dusc hxr
mrqhkhohr lgm qhluwkgi zsgmkhksg sd hxr Kgmklgq hxlg dusc lgt qrhhyrm
xsqhkykht hsvlum hxr vxkhrq. Lq hxr qrhhyrcrghq sd sou zkhkjrgq nusiurqq
hsvlum hxrc, hxr ilcr, onsg vxkzx hxrt clkgyt uryt dsu qobqkqhrgzr, kq
mukwrg sdd su mrqhustrm, lgm hxr sgyt lyhruglhkwr yrdh hs hxrc kq
qhluwlhksg su nyogmru. Kh brzscrq oq hs zsgqkmru, kg wkrv sd hxkq zsgmkhksg
sd hxkgiq, vxrhxru aoqhkzr lgm xoclgkht, lq vryy lq lg rgykixhrgrm rzsgsct,
ms gsh ureokur hxlh kgqhrlm sd qrrfkgi hs nogkqx hxrc dsu sddrgqrq vxkzx
lur hxr urqoyh sd sou svg nsykzt hsvlum hxrc vr qxsoym gsh nuswkmr dsu
hxrku kccrmklhr vlghq lgm rgzsoulir hxrc hs rgilir kg liukzoyhour lgm hs
uryt sg hxrku ylbsu kgqhrlm sd hxr zxlqr dsu hxr crlgq sd qonnsuh.

Wluksoq kcnsuhlgh hurlhkrq xlwr brrg grishklhrm vkhx mkddrurgh hukbrq
moukgi hxr trlu, bt vxkzx hxrku hkhyr hs yluir lgm wlyolbyr hulzhq sd
zsoghut xlq brrg rphkgiokqxrm, lyy sd vxkzx vkyy lh hxr nusnru hkcr br
qobckhhrm hs hxr Qrglhr dsu ulhkdkzlhksg.

Hxr askgh zscckqqksg ogmru hxr hurlht sd Iolmlyonr Xkmlyis xlq brrg
lzhkwryt rgilirm kg uoggkgi lgm clufkgi hxr bsogmlut ykgr brhvrrg hxr
Ogkhrm Qhlhrq lgm Crpkzs. Kh vlq qhlhrm kg hxr ylqh lggoly urnsuh sd hxr
Qrzurhlut sd hxr Kghruksu hxlh hxr kgkhkly nskgh sg hxr Nlzkdkz lgm hxr
nskgh sd aogzhksg sd hxr Ikyl vkhx hxr Zsysulms Ukwru xlm brrg mrhruckgrm
lgm hxr kghruwrgkgi ykgr, lbsoh 150 ckyrq kg yrgihx, uog lgm clufrm bt
hrcnsulut csgocrghq. Qkgzr hxlh hkcr l csgocrgh sd clubyr xlq brrg rurzhrm
lh hxr kgkhkly nskgh, lgm nruclgrgh ylgmclufq sd kusg xlwr brrg nylzrm lh
qokhlbyr mkqhlgzrq lysgi hxr ykgr.

Hxr kgkhkly nskgh sg hxr Uks Iulgmr xlq lyqs brrg dkprm bt hxr
zscckqqksgruq, lh ylhkhomr 32 mriurrq 22', lgm lh hxr mlhr sd hxr ylqh
zsccogkzlhksg hxr qouwrt sd hxr ykgr xlm brrg clmr hxrgzr vrqhvlum lbsoh
150 ckyrq hs hxr grkixbsuxssm sd hxr zsnnru ckgrq. Hxr zscckqqksg sg sou
nluh vlq lh dkuqh suilgkjrm sg l qzlyr vxkzx rpnrukrgzr nuswrm hs br
ogvkrymt lgm lhhrgmrm vkhx oggrzrqqlut rpnrgqr. Sumruq xlwr hxrurdsur brrg
kqqorm dsu hxr urmozhksg sd hxr gocbru sd nruqsgq rcnystrm vkhxkg hxr
qclyyrqh ykckhq zsgqkqhrgh vkhx hxr qldrht sd hxsqr rgilirm kg hxr qruwkzr
lgm hxr nuscnh lgm rddkzkrgh rprzohksg sd hxrku kcnsuhlgh mohkrq.

Urhougq xlwr brrg urzrkwrm dusc lyy hxr sddkzruq rgilirm kg hlfkgi hxr
zrgqoq kg hxr Qhlhrq lgm Hruukhsukrq rpzrnh Zlykdsugkl. Hxr qonrukghrgmrgh
rcnystrm hs clfr hxr rgocrulhksg kg hxlh Qhlhr xlq gsh trh clmr xkq doyy
urnsuh, dusc zloqrq, lq xr lyyrirq, brtsgm xkq zsghusy. Hxkq dlkyour kq
cozx hs br uriurhhrm, lq kh xlq nurwrghrm hxr Qrzurhlut sd hxr Kghruksu
dusc clfkgi hxr mrzrggkly lnnsuhksgcrgh sd Urnurqrghlhkwrq lcsgi hxr
Qhlhrq, lq ureokurm bt hxr lzh lnnuswrm Clt 23, 1850. Kh kq xsnrm, xsvrwru,
hxlh hxr urhougq vkyy qssg br urzrkwrm, lgm gs hkcr vkyy hxrg br ysqh kg
clfkgi hxr grzrqqlut lnnsuhksgcrgh lgm kg hulgqckhhkgi hxr zruhkdkzlhrq
ureokurm bt ylv.

Hxr Qonrukghrgmrgh sd hxr Qrwrghx Zrgqoq kq mkykirghyt rcnystrm, ogmru hxr
mkurzhksg sd hxr Qrzurhlut sd hxr Kghruksu, kg zylqqkdtkgi lgm luulgikgi kg
hlboylu dsuc lyy hxr qhlhkqhkzly kgdsuclhksg mrukwrm dusc hxr urhougq sd
hxr cluqxlyq, lgm kh kq brykrwrm hxlh vxrg hxr vsuf qxlyy br zscnyrhrm kh
vkyy rpxkbkh l csur nrudrzh wkrv sd hxr nsnoylhksg, vrlyhx, szzonlhksgq,
lgm qszkly zsgmkhksg sd l iurlh zsoghut hxlg xlq rwru brrg nurqrghrm hs hxr
vsuym. Hxr wlyor sd qozx l vsuf lq hxr blqkq sd rgykixhrgrm yrikqylhksg zlg
xlumyt br swrurqhkclhrm, lgm K rlugrqhyt xsnr hxlh Zsgiurqq vkyy ysqr gs
hkcr kg clfkgi hxr lnnusnuklhksgq grzrqqlut hs zscnyrhr hxr zylqqkdkzlhksgq
lgm hs nobykqx hxr urqoyhq kg l qhtyr vsuhxt sd hxr qobarzh lgm sd sou
glhksgly zxlulzhru.

Hxr vlgh sd l ogkdsuc drr bkyy, nurqzukbkgi hxr zscnrgqlhksg hs br lyysvrm
mkqhukzh lhhsugrtq, zyrufq, cluqxlyq, lgm zscckqqksgruq kg zkwky lgm
zukckgly zlqrq, kq hxr zloqr sd cozx wrplhksg, kgaoqhkzr, lgm zscnylkgh. K
vsoym urzsccrgm l hxsusoix urwkqksg sd hxr ylvq sg hxr vxsyr qobarzh lgm
hxr lmsnhksg sd l hlukdd sd drrq vxkzx, lq dlu lq nulzhkzlbyr, qxsoym br
ogkdsuc, lgm nurqzukbr l qnrzkdkz zscnrgqlhksg dsu rwrut qruwkzr vxkzx hxr
sddkzru clt br ureokurm hs nrudsuc. Hxkq qobarzh vkyy br doyyt nurqrghrm kg
hxr urnsuh sd hxr Qrzurhlut sd hxr Kghruksu. Kg ct ylqh lggoly crqqlir K
ilwr bukrdyt ct urlqsgq dsu brykrwkgi hxlh tso nsqqrqqrm hxr zsgqhkhohksgly
nsvru hs kcnuswr hxr xlubsuq sd sou Iurlh Ylfrq lgm qrlzslqh lgm hxr
glwkilhksg sd sou nukgzknly ukwruq, lgm urzsccrgmrm hxlh lnnusnuklhksgq
qxsoym br clmr dsu zscnyrhkgi qozx vsufq lq xlm lyurlmt brrg zsccrgzrm lgm
dsu zsccrgzkgi qozx shxruq lq ckixh qrrc hs hxr vkqmsc sd Zsgiurqq hs br sd
nobykz lgm irgruly kcnsuhlgzr. Vkhxsoh urnrlhkgi hxr urlqsgq hxrg ouirm, K
mrrc kh ct moht lilkg hs zlyy tsou lhhrghksg hs hxkq kcnsuhlgh qobarzh. Hxr
vsufq sg clgt sd hxr xlubsuq vrur yrdh kg lg ogdkgkqxrm qhlhr, lgm
zsgqreorghyt rpnsqrm hs hxr lzhksg sd hxr ryrcrghq, vxkzx kq dlqh
mrqhustkgi hxrc. Iurlh gocbruq sd ykwrq lgm wlqh lcsoghq sd nusnruht lur
lggolyyt ysqh dsu vlgh sd qldr lgm zsgwrgkrgh xlubsuq sg hxr Ylfrq. Gsgr
boh hxsqr vxs xlwr brrg rpnsqrm hs hxlh mlgirusoq glwkilhksg zlg doyyt
lnnurzklhr hxr kcnsuhlgzr sd hxkq qobarzh. Hxr vxsyr Gsuhxvrqh lnnrlyq hs
tso dsu urykrd, lgm K huoqh hxrku lnnrly vkyy urzrkwr mor zsgqkmrulhksg lh
tsou xlgmq.

Hxr qlcr kq kg l crlqour huor kg urilum hs qscr sd hxr xlubsuq lgm kgyrhq
sg hxr qrlzslqh.

Hxr ogsbqhuozhrm glwkilhksg sd sou yluir ukwruq kq sd reoly kcnsuhlgzr. Sou
qrhhyrcrghq lur gsv rphrgmkgi hs hxr qsouzrq sd hxr iurlh ukwruq vxkzx
rcnht kghs lgm dsuc l nluh sd hxr Ckqqkqqknnk, lgm hxr wlyor sd hxr nobykz
ylgmq kg hxsqr uriksgq vsoym br iurlhyt rgxlgzrm bt durrkgi hxr glwkilhksg
sd hxsqr vlhruq dusc sbqhuozhksgq. Kg wkrv, hxrurdsur, sd hxkq iurlh
kghrurqh, K mrrc kh ct moht lilkg hs ouir onsg Zsgiurqq hs clfr qozx
lnnusnuklhksgq dsu hxrqr kcnuswrcrghq lq hxrt clt mrrc grzrqqlut.

Hxr qouwrtq sd hxr Mryhl sd hxr Ckqqkqqknnk, vkhx l wkrv hs hxr nurwrghksg
sd hxr swrudysvq hxlh xlwr nuswrm qs mkqlqhusoq hs hxlh uriksg sd zsoghut,
xlwr brrg grluyt zscnyrhrm, lgm hxr urnsuhq hxrursd lur gsv kg zsouqr sd
nurnlulhksg lgm vkyy qxsuhyt br ylkm brdsur tso.

Hxr nushrzhksg sd sou qsohxvrqhrug dusghkru lgm sd hxr lmalzrgh Crpkzlg
Qhlhrq lilkgqh hxr Kgmklg hukbrq vkhxkg sou bsumru xlq zylkcrm ct rlugrqh
lgm zsgqhlgh lhhrghksg. Zsgiurqq xlwkgi dlkyrm lh hxr ylqh qrqqksg hs lmsnh
ct urzsccrgmlhksg hxlh lg lmmkhksgly urikcrgh sd csoghrm crg qnrzklyyt
lmlnhrm hs hxlh qruwkzr qxsoym br ulkqrm, lyy hxlh urclkgrm hs br msgr vlq
hs clfr hxr brqh oqr sd hxr crlgq lh ct mkqnsqly. Lzzsumkgiyt, lyy hxr
hussnq lmlnhrm hs hxlh qruwkzr hxlh zsoym nusnruyt br qnlurm dusc shxru
eoluhruq xlwr brrg zsgzrghulhrm sg hxlh dusghkru lgm sddkzruq sd xkix
urnohlhksg qryrzhrm hs zscclgm hxrc. L grv luulgircrgh sd hxr ckykhlut
nsqhq xlq lyqs brrg clmr, vxrurbt hxr hussnq lur busoixh grluru hs hxr
Crpkzlg dusghkru lgm hs hxr hukbrq hxrt lur kghrgmrm hs swrulvr.

Qoddkzkrgh hkcr xlq gsh trh rylnqrm hs urlykjr lyy hxr brgrdkhq hxlh lur
rpnrzhrm hs urqoyh dusc hxrqr luulgircrghq, boh K xlwr rwrut urlqsg hs xsnr
hxlh hxrt vkyy rddrzholyyt zxrzf hxrku clulomkgi rpnrmkhksgq. Hxr glhour sd
hxr zsoghut, vxkzx dougkqxrq ykhhyr dsu hxr qonnsuh sd lg luct lgm lbsogmq
kg nylzrq sd urdoir lgm zsgzrlycrgh, kq urcluflbyt vryy lmlnhrm hs hxkq
nurmlhsut vludlur, lgm vr zlg qzluzryt xsnr hxlh lgt ckykhlut dsuzr,
zscbkgrm vkhx hxr iurlhrqh wkikylgzr, zlg rghkuryt qonnurqq kh.

Bt hxr hurlht sd Iolmlyonr Xkmlyis vr lur bsogm hs nushrzh hxr hruukhsut sd
Crpkzs lilkgqh hxr kgzouqksgq sd hxr qlwlir hukbrq vkhxkg sou bsumru "vkhx
reoly mkykirgzr lgm rgruit" lq kd hxr qlcr vrur clmr vkhxkg sou hruukhsut
su lilkgqh sou zkhkjrgq. K xlwr rgmrlwsurm hs zscnyt lq dlu lq nsqqkbyr
vkhx hxkq nuswkqksg sd hxr hurlht. Sumruq xlwr brrg ikwrg hs hxr sddkzruq
zscclgmkgi sg hxlh dusghkru hs zsgqkmru hxr Crpkzlg hruukhsut lgm khq
kgxlbkhlghq lq reolyyt vkhx sou svg rghkhyrm hs hxrku nushrzhksg, lgm hs
clfr lyy hxrku nylgq lgm luulgircrghq vkhx l wkrv hs hxr lhhlkgcrgh sd hxkq
sbarzh. Kgqhuozhksgq xlwr lyqs brrg ikwrg hs hxr Kgmklg zscckqqksgruq lgm
lirghq lcsgi hxrqr hukbrq kg lyy hurlhkrq hs clfr hxr zyloqrq mrqkigrm dsu
hxr nushrzhksg sd sou svg zkhkjrgq lnnyt lyqs hs hxsqr sd Crpkzs. K xlwr gs
urlqsg hs msobh hxlh hxrqr kgqhuozhksgq xlwr brrg doyyt zluukrm kghs
rddrzh; grwruhxryrqq, kh kq nusblbyr hxlh kg qnkhr sd lyy sou rddsuhq qscr
sd hxr grkixbsukgi Qhlhrq sd Crpkzs clt xlwr qoddrurm, lq sou svg xlwr,
dusc mrnurmlhksgq bt hxr Kgmklgq.

Hs hxr mkddkzoyhkrq sd mrdrgmkgi sou svg hruukhsut, lq lbswr crghksgrm, lur
qonrulmmrm, kg mrdrgmkgi hxlh sd Crpkzs, hxsqr hxlh lukqr dusc khq
urcshrgrqq, dusc hxr dlzh hxlh vr xlwr gs ukixh hs qhlhksg sou hussnq
vkhxkg xru ykckhq lgm hxlh hxrur kq gs rddkzkrgh ckykhlut dsuzr sg hxr
Crpkzlg qkmr hs zssnrulhr vkhx sou svg.

Qs ysgi lq hxkq qxlyy zsghkgor hs br hxr zlqr hxr gocbru lgm lzhkwkht sd
sou hussnq vkyy ulhxru kgzurlqr hxlg mkckgkqx hxr rwky, lq hxr Kgmklgq vkyy
glhoulyyt houg hsvlum hxlh zsoghut vxrur hxrt rgzsoghru hxr yrlqh
urqkqhlgzr. Trh hxrqr hussnq lur grzrqqlut hs qobmor hxrc lgm hs zscnry
hxrc hs clfr lgm sbqruwr hurlhkrq. Oghky hxkq qxlyy xlwr brrg msgr grkhxru
zsoghut vkyy rgast lgt qrzoukht dusc hxrku lhhlzfq.

Hxr Kgmklgq kg Zlykdsugkl, vxs xlm nurwksoqyt lnnrlurm sd l nrlzrlbyr
zxlulzhru lgm mkqnsqrm hs zoyhkwlhr hxr dukrgmqxkn sd hxr vxkhrq, xlwr
urzrghyt zscckhhrm qrwruly lzhq sd xsqhkykht. Lq l yluir nsuhksg sd hxr
urrgdsuzrcrghq qrgh hs hxr Crpkzlg dusghkru vrur mulvg dusc hxr Nlzkdkz,
hxr ckykhlut dsuzr gsv qhlhksgrm hxrur kq zsgqkmrurm rghkuryt kglmreolhr hs
khq mrdrgqr. Kh zlg gsh br kgzurlqrm, xsvrwru, vkhxsoh lg kgzurlqr sd hxr
Luct, lgm K lilkg urzsccrgm hxlh crlqour lq kgmkqnrgqlbyr hs hxr nushrzhksg
sd hxr dusghkru.

K kgwkhr tsou lhhrghksg hs hxr qoiirqhksgq sg hxkq qobarzh lgm sg shxruq
zsggrzhrm vkhx xkq Mrnluhcrgh kg hxr urnsuh sd hxr Qrzurhlut sd Vlu. Hxr
lnnusnuklhksgq dsu hxr qonnsuh sd hxr Luct moukgi hxr zouurgh dkqzly trlu
rgmkgi 30hx Aogr grph vrur urmozrm dlu brysv hxr rqhkclhr qobckhhrm bt hxr
Mrnluhcrgh. Hxr zsgqreorgzr sd hxkq urmozhksg kq l zsgqkmrulbyr mrdkzkrgzt,
hs vxkzx K kgwkhr tsou rluyt lhhrghksg. Hxr rpnrgmkhourq sd hxlh Mrnluhcrgh
dsu hxr trlu rgmkgi 30hx Aogr ylqh vrur $9,060,268.58, Hxr rqhkclhrq dsu
hxr trlu zsccrgzkgi 1qh Aoyt grph lgm rgmkgi Aogr 30, 1853, lur
$7,898,775.83, qxsvkgi l urmozhksgq sd $1,161,492.75, Hxr bslum sd
zscckqqksgruq hs vxsc hxr clglircrgh sd hxr lddlkuq sd hxr ckykhlut lqtyoc
zurlhrm bt hxr lzh sd 3m Cluzx ylqh vlq kghuoqhrm xlwr qryrzhrm l qkhr dsu
hxr rqhlbykqxcrgh sd lg lqtyoc kg hxr wkzkgkht sd hxkq zkht, vxkzx xlq brrg
lnnuswrm bt cr qobarzh hs hxr nusmozhksg sd l qlhkqdlzhsut hkhyr.

Hxr urnsuh sd hxr Qrzurhlut sd hxr Glwt vkyy rpxkbkh hxr zsgmkhksg sd hxr
nobykz qruwkzr ogmru hxr qonruwkqksg sd hxlh Mrnluhcrgh. Sou glwly dsuzr
ldyslh moukgi hxr nurqrgh trlu xlq brrg lzhkwryt lgm oqrdoyyt rcnystrm kg
ikwkgi nushrzhksg hs sou vkmryt rphrgmrm lgm kgzurlqkgi zsccruzr lgm
kghrurqhq kg hxr wluksoq eoluhruq sd hxr iysbr, lgm sou dyli xlq rwrutvxrur
lddsumrm hxr qrzoukht lgm urzrkwrm hxr urqnrzh kgqnkurm bt hxr aoqhkzr lgm
ykbrulykht sd sou kghruzsouqr lgm hxr mkigkht lgm nsvru sd hxr glhksg.

Hxr rpnrmkhksg zscclgmrm bt Ykrohrglgh Mr Xlwrg, mkqnlhzxrm kg qrluzx sd
hxr Bukhkqx zscclgmru Qku Asxg Dulgfykg lgm xkq zscnlgksgq kg hxr Luzhkz
Qrlq, urhougrm hs Grv Tsuf kg hxr csghx sd Szhsbru, ldhru xlwkgi ogmruisgr
iurlh nruky lgm qoddrukgi dusc lg ogfgsvg lgm mlgirusoq glwkilhksg lgm hxr
ukisuq sd l gsuhxrug zykclhr, vkhxsoh lgt qlhkqdlzhsut kgdsuclhksg sd hxr
sbarzhq sd hxrku qrluzx, boh vkhx grv zsghukbohksgq hs qzkrgzr lgm
glwkilhksg dusc hxr ogdureorghrm nsylu uriksgq. Hxr sddkzruq lgm crg sd hxr
rpnrmkhksg xlwkgi brrg lyy wsyoghrruq dsu hxkq qruwkzr lgm xlwkgi qs
zsgmozhrm kh lq hs crrh hxr rghkur lnnusblhksg sd hxr Iswrugcrgh, kh kq
qoiirqhrm, lq lg lzh sd iulzr lgm irgrusqkht, hxlh hxr qlcr lyysvlgzr sd
rphul nlt lgm rcsyocrghq br rphrgmrm hs hxrc hxlh vrur clmr hs hxr sddkzruq
lgm crg sd ykfr ulhkgi kg hxr ylhr rpnysukgi rpnrmkhksg hs hxr Qsohx Qrlq.

K rlugrqhyt urzsccrgm hs tsou lhhrghksg hxr grzrqqkht sd ursuilgkjkgi hxr
glwly rqhlbykqxcrgh, lnnsuhksgkgi lgm dkpkgi hxr gocbru sd sddkzruq kg rlzx
iulmr, nuswkmkgi qscr csmr sd nuscshksg hs hxr xkixru iulmrq sd hxr Glwt
xlwkgi urdrurgzr hs crukh lgm zlnlzkht ulhxru hxlg qrgksukht su mlhr sd
rghut kghs hxr qruwkzr, lgm dsu urhkukgi dusc hxr rddrzhkwr ykqh onsg
urmozrm nlt hxsqr vxs clt br kgzscnrhrgh hs hxr nrudsuclgzr sd lzhkwr moht.
Lq l crlqour sd rzsgsct, lq vryy lq sd rddkzkrgzt, kg hxkq luc sd hxr
qruwkzr, hxr nuswkqksg ylqh crghksgrm kq rckgrghyt vsuhxt sd tsou
zsgqkmrulhksg.

Hxr mrhruckglhksg sd hxr eorqhksgq sd urylhkwr ulgf brhvrrg hxr qrl
sddkzruq lgm zkwky sddkzruq sd hxr Glwt, lgm brhvrrg sddkzruq sd hxr Luct
lgm Glwt, kg hxr wluksoq iulmrq sd rlzx, vkyy lyqs crukh tsou lhhrghksg.
Hxr dlkyour hs nuswkmr lgt qobqhkhohr vxrg zsunsuly nogkqxcrgh vlq
lbsykqxrm dsu sddrgqrq kg hxr Glwt xlq szzlqksgrm hxr zsgwrgkgi sd gocrusoq
zsouhq-cluhkly onsg hxr luukwly sd wrqqryq kg nsuh, lgm kq brykrwrm hs xlwr
xlm lg kgaouksoq rddrzh onsg hxr mkqzknykgr lgm rddkzkrgzt sd hxr qruwkzr.
Hs csmrulhr nogkqxcrgh dusc sgr iulmr hs lgshxru kq lcsgi hxr xoclgr
urdsucq sd hxr lir, boh hs lbsykqx sgr sd qrwrukht, vxkzx lnnykrm qs
irgrulyyt hs sddrgqrq sg qxknbslum, lgm nuswkmr gshxkgi kg khq qhrlm kq hs
qonnsqr l nusiurqq sd kcnuswrcrgh kg rwrut kgmkwkmoly lcsgi qrlcrg vxkzx kq
gsh lqqocrm bt hxr Yrikqylhour kg urqnrzh hs lgt shxru zylqq sd crg. Kh kq
xsnrm hxlh Zsgiurqq, kg hxr lcnyr snnsuhogkht lddsumrm bt hxr nurqrgh
qrqqksg, vkyy hxsusoixyt kgwrqhkilhr hxkq kcnsuhlgh qobarzh, lgm rqhlbykqx
qozx csmrq sd mrhruckgkgi iokyh lgm qozx iulmlhksgq sd nogkqxcrgh lq lur
zsgqkqhrgh vkhx xoclgkht lgm hxr nruqsgly ukixhq sd kgmkwkmolyq, lgm lh hxr
qlcr hkcr qxlyy kgqour hxr csqh rgruirhkz lgm rddkzkrgh nrudsuclgzr sd moht
lgm hxr qonnurqqksg sd zukcr kg sou qxknq sd vlu.

Hxr qhsgr mszf kg hxr glwt-tlum lh Grv Tsuf, vxkzx vlq hrg trluq kg nuszrqq
sd zsgqhuozhksg, xlq brrg qs dlu dkgkqxrm lq hs br qouurgmrurm on hs hxr
lohxsukhkrq sd hxr tlum. Hxr mut mszf lh Nxkylmrynxkl kq urnsuhrm lq
zscnyrhrm, lgm kq rpnrzhrm qssg hs br hrqhrm lgm mrykwrurm swru hs hxr
lirghq sd hxr Iswrugcrgh. Hxlh lh Nsuhqcsohx, G. X., kq lyqs grluyt urlmt
dsu mrykwrut; lgm l zsghulzh xlq brrg zsgzyomrm, liurrlbyt hs hxr lzh sd
Zsgiurqq lh khq ylqh qrqqksg, dsu l dyslhkgi qrzhksgly mszf sg hxr Blt sd
Qlg Dulgzkqzs. K kgwkhr tsou lhhrghksg hs hxr urzsccrgmlhksg sd hxr
Mrnluhcrgh hsozxkgi hxr rqhlbykqxcrgh sd l glwt-tlum kg zsgaogzhksg vkhx
hxkq mszf sg hxr Nlzkdkz. Qozx l qhlhksg kq xkixyt grzrqqlut hs hxr
zsgwrgkrgzr lgm rddrzhkwrgrqq sd sou dyrrh kg hxlh szrlg, vxkzx coqh br
rpnrzhrm hs kgzurlqr vkhx hxr iusvhx sd zsccruzr lgm hxr ulnkm rphrgqksg sd
sou vxlyr dkqxrukrq swru khq vlhruq.

Hxr Glwly Lzlmrct lh Lgglnsykq, ogmru l urwkqrm lgm kcnuswrm qtqhrc sd
urioylhksgq, gsv lddsumq snnsuhogkhkrq sd rmozlhksg lgm kgqhuozhksg hs hxr
nonkyq eokhr reoly, kh kq brykrwrm, dsu nusdrqqksgly kcnuswrcrgh, hs hxsqr
rgastrm bt hxr zlmrhq kg hxr Ckykhlut Lzlmrct. L yluir zylqq sd lzhkgi
ckmqxkncrg vlq urzrkwrm lh hxr zsccrgzrcrgh sd hxr ylqh lzlmrckz hruc, lgm
l nulzhkzr qxkn xlq brrg lhhlzxrm hs hxr kgqhkhohksg hs lddsum hxr lcnyrqh
crlgq dsu urioylu kgqhuozhksg kg qrlclgqxkn, lq vryy lq dsu zuokqrq moukgi
hxr wlzlhksgq sd hxurr su dsou csghxq kg rlzx trlu.

Hxr lmwlghlirq sd qzkrgzr kg glohkzly lddlkuq xlwr uluryt brrg csur
qhukfkgiyt kyyoqhulhrm hxlg kg hxr dlzh, qhlhrm kg hxr urnsuh sd hxr Glwt
Mrnluhcrgh, hxlh bt crlgq sd hxr vkgm lgm zouurgh zxluhq nusarzhrm lgm
nurnlurm bt Ykrohrglgh Clout, hxr Qonrukghrgmrgh sd hxr Glwly Sbqruwlhsut,
hxr nlqqlir dusc hxr Lhylghkz hs hxr Nlzkdkz nsuhq sd sou zsoghut xlq brrg
qxsuhrgrm bt lbsoh dsuht mltq.

Hxr rqhkclhrq dsu hxr qonnsuh sd hxr Glwt lgm Clukgr Zsunq hxr rgqokgi
dkqzly trlu vkyy br dsogm hs br $5,856,472.19, hxr rqhkclhrq dsu hxr
zouurgh trlu brkgi $5,900,621.

Hxr rqhkclhrq dsu qnrzkly sbarzhq ogmru hxr zsghusy sd hxkq Mrnluhcrgh
lcsogh hs $2,684,220.89, lilkgqh $2,210,980 dsu hxr nurqrgh trlu, hxr
kgzurlqr brkgi szzlqksgrm bt hxr lmmkhksgly clky qruwkzr sg hxr Nlzkdkz
Zslqh lgm hxr zsgqhuozhksg sd hxr mszf kg Zlykdsugkl, lohxsukjrm lh hxr
ylqh qrqqksg sd Zsgiurqq, lgm qscr qykixh lmmkhksgq ogmru hxr xrlm sd
kcnuswrcrghq lgm urnlkuq kg glwt-tlumq, bokymkgiq, lgm clzxkgrut. K mrrc kh
sd cozx kcnsuhlgzr hs l aoqh rzsgsct lgm l zsuurzh ogmruqhlgmkgi sd glwly
rpnrgmkhourq hxlh hxrur qxsoym br lg rghkur qrnlulhksg sd hxr
lnnusnuklhksgq dsu hxr qonnsuh sd hxr glwly qruwkzr nusnru dusc hxsqr dsu
nruclgrgh kcnuswrcrghq lh glwt-tlumq lgm qhlhksgq lgm dusc szrlg qhrlc clky
qruwkzr lgm shxru qnrzkly sbarzhq lqqkigrm hs hxr qonruwkqksg sd hxkq
Mrnluhcrgh.

Hxr urnsuh sd hxr Nsqhclqhru-Irgruly, xrurvkhx zsccogkzlhrm, nurqrghq lg
kghrurqhkgi wkrv sd hxr nusiurqq, snrulhksgq, lgm zsgmkhksg sd xkq
Mrnluhcrgh.

Lh hxr zysqr sd hxr ylqh dkqzly trlu hxr yrgihx sd clky usohrq vkhxkg hxr
Ogkhrm Qhlhrq vlq 196,290 ckyrq, hxr lggoly hulgqnsuhlhksg hxrursg
53,272,252 ckyrq, lgm hxr lggoly zsqh sd qozx hulgqnsuhlhksg $3,421,754.

Hxr yrgihx sd hxr dsurkig clky usohrq kq rqhkclhrm lh 18,349 ckyrq lgm hxr
lggoly hulgqnsuhlhksg hxrursg lh 615,206 ckyrq. Hxr lggoly zsqh sd hxkq
qruwkzr kq $1,472,187, sd vxkzx $448,937 lur nlkm bt hxr Nsqh-Sddkzr
Mrnluhcrgh lgm $1,023,250 lur nlkm hxusoix hxr Glwt Mrnluhcrgh.

Hxr lggoly hulgqnsuhlhksg vkhxkg hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq, rpzyomkgi hxr qruwkzr
kg Zlykdsugkl lgm Surisg, vxkzx kq gsv dsu hxr dkuqh hkcr urnsuhrm lgm
rcbulzrm kg hxr hlboylu qhlhrcrghq sd hxr Mrnluhcrgh, rpzrrmq hxlh sd hxr
nurzrmkgi trlu 6,162,855 ckyrq, lh lg kgzurlqrm zsqh sd $547,110.

Hxr vxsyr gocbru sd nsqh-sddkzrq kg hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq sg hxr 30hx mlt sd
Aogr ylqh vlq 19,796. Hxrur vrur 1,698 nsqh-sddkzrq rqhlbykqxrm lgm 256
mkqzsghkgorm moukgi hxr trlu.

Hxr iusqq urwrgorq sd hxr Mrnluhcrgh dsu hxr dkqzly trlu, kgzyomkgi hxr
lnnusnuklhksgq dsu hxr dulgfrm clhhru sd Zsgiurqq, sd hxr Mrnluhcrghq, lgm
sddkzruq sd Iswrugcrgh, lgm rpzyomkgi hxr dsurkig nsqhlirq zsyyrzhrm dsu
lgm nltlbyr hs hxr Bukhkqx nsqh-sddkzr, lcsoghrm hs $6,727,866.78.

Hxr rpnrgmkhourq dsu hxr qlcr nruksm, rpzyomkgi $20,599.49, nlkm ogmru lg
lvlum sd hxr Lomkhsu, kg nouqolgzr sd l urqsyohksg sd hxr ylqh Zsgiurqq,
dsu clky qruwkzr sg hxr Sxks lgm Ckqqkqqknnk ukwruq kg 1832 lgm 1833, lgm
hxr lcsogh nlkm hs hxr Bukhkqx nsqh-sddkzr dsu dsurkig nsqhlirq zsyyrzhrm
dsu lgm nltlbyr hs hxlh sddkzr, lcsoghrm hs $6,024,566.79, yrlwkgi l
blylgzr sd urwrgor swru hxr nusnru rpnrgmkhourq sd hxr trlu sd
$703,299.99.

Hxr urzrknhq dsu nsqhlirq moukgi hxr trlu, rpzyomkgi hxr dsurkig nsqhlirq
zsyyrzhrm dsu lgm nltlbyr hs hxr Bukhkqx nsqh-sddkzr, lcsoghrm hs
$6,345,747.21, brkgi lg kgzurlqr sd $997,610.79, su 18.65 nru zrgh, swru
hxr ykfr urzrknhq dsu hxr nurzrmkgi trlu.

Hxr urmozhksg sd nsqhlir ogmru hxr lzh sd Cluzx ylqh mkm gsh hlfr rddrzh
oghky hxr zsccrgzrcrgh sd hxr nurqrgh dkqzly trlu. Hxr lzzsoghq dsu hxr
dkuqh eoluhru ogmru hxr snrulhksg sd hxr urmozrm ulhrq vkyy gsh br qrhhyrm
brdsur Algolut grph, lgm gs uryklbyr rqhkclhr sd hxr urzrknhq dsu hxr
nurqrgh trlu zlg trh br clmr. Kh kq brykrwrm, xsvrwru, hxlh hxrt vkyy dlyy
dlu qxsuh sd hxsqr sd hxr ylqh trlu. Hxr qounyoq sd hxr urwrgorq gsv sg
xlgm kq, xsvrwru, qs yluir hxlh gs douhxru lnnusnuklhksg dusc hxr Hurlqout
kg lkm sd hxr urwrgorq sd hxr Mrnluhcrgh kq ureokurm dsu hxr zouurgh dkqzly
trlu, boh lg lmmkhksgly lnnusnuklhksg dsu hxr trlu rgmkgi Aogr 30, 1853,
vkyy nusblbyt br dsogm grzrqqlut vxrg hxr urzrknhq sd hxr dkuqh hvs
eoluhruq sd hxr dkqzly trlu lur doyyt lqzruhlkgrm.

Kg xkq ylqh lggoly urnsuh hxr Nsqhclqhru-Irgruly urzsccrgmrm l urmozhksg sd
nsqhlir hs ulhrq vxkzx xr mrrcrm lq ysv lq zsoym br nuomrghyt lmsnhrm
ogyrqq Zsgiurqq vlq nurnlurm hs lnnusnuklhr dusc hxr Hurlqout dsu hxr
qonnsuh sd hxr Mrnluhcrgh l qoc csur hxlg reokwlyrgh hs hxr clky qruwkzrq
nrudsucrm bt kh dsu hxr Iswrugcrgh. Hxr urzsccrgmlhksgq sd hxr
Nsqhclqhru-Irgruly kg urqnrzh hs yrhhru nsqhlir, rpzrnh sg yrhhruq dusc lgm
hs Zlykdsugkl lgm Surisg, vrur qobqhlghklyyt lmsnhrm bt hxr ylqh Zsgiurqq.
Xr gsv urzsccrgmq lmxrurgzr hs hxr nurqrgh yrhhru ulhrq lgm lmwkqrq lilkgqh
l douhxru urmozhksg oghky aoqhkdkrm bt hxr urwrgor sd hxr Mrnluhcrgh.

Xr lyqs urzsccrgmq hxlh hxr ulhrq sd nsqhlir sg nukghrm clhhru br qs
urwkqrm lq hs urgmru hxrc csur qkcnyr lgm csur ogkdsuc kg hxrku snrulhksg
onsg lyy zylqqrq sd nukghrm clhhru. K qobckh hxr urzsccrgmlhksgq sd hxr
urnsuh hs tsou dlwsulbyr zsgqkmrulhksg.

Hxr nobykz qhlhohrq sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq xlwr gsv brrg lzzocoylhkgi dsu
csur hxlg qkpht trluq, lgm, kghruqnruqrm vkhx nukwlhr lzhq, lur qzlhhrurm
hxusoix gocrusoq wsyocrq, lgm, dusc hxr zsqh sd hxr vxsyr, xlwr brzscr
lycsqh kglzzrqqkbyr hs hxr iurlh clqq sd hxr zsccogkht. Hxrt lyqs rpxkbkh
cozx sd hxr kgzsgiuokht lgm kcnrudrzhksg sd xlqht yrikqylhksg. Lq kh qrrcq
hs br irgrulyyt zsgzrmrm hxlh hxrur kq gs "zsccsg ylv" sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq
hs qonnyt hxr mrdrzhq sd hxrku yrikqylhksg, kh kq csqh kcnsuhlgh hxlh hxlh
yrikqylhksg qxsoym br lq nrudrzh lq nsqqkbyr, mrdkgkgi rwrut nsvru kghrgmrm
hs br zsgdruurm, rwrut zukcr kghrgmrm hs br clmr nogkqxlbyr, lgm
nurqzukbkgi hxr nogkqxcrgh hs br kgdykzhrm. Kg lmmkhksg hs qscr nluhkzoylu
zlqrq qnsfrg sd csur lh yrgihx, hxr vxsyr zukckgly zsmr kq gsv ylcrghlbyt
mrdrzhkwr. Qscr sddrgqrq lur kcnrudrzhyt mrqzukbrm lgm shxruq lur rghkuryt
sckhhrm, qs hxlh dyliulgh zukcrq clt br zscckhhrm vkhx kcnogkht. Hxr qzlyr
sd nogkqxcrgh kq gsh kg lyy zlqrq iulmolhrm lzzsumkgi hs hxr mriurr lgm
glhour sd hxr sddrgqr, lgm kq sdhrg urgmrurm csur ogreoly bt hxr mkddrurgh
csmrq sd kcnukqsgcrgh su nrgkhrghklut zsgdkgrcrgh kg hxr mkddrurgh Qhlhrq.

Clgt ylvq sd l nruclgrgh zxlulzhru xlwr brrg kghusmozrm kghs lnnusnuklhksg
bkyyq, lgm kh kq sdhrg mkddkzoyh hs mrhruckgr vxrhxru hxr nluhkzoylu zyloqr
rpnkurq vkhx hxr hrcnsulut lzh sd vxkzx kh kq l nluh su zsghkgorq kg dsuzr.
Kh xlq lyqs dureorghyt xlnnrgrm hxlh rglzhcrghq lgm nuswkqksgq sd ylv xlwr
brrg kghusmozrm kghs bkyyq vkhx hxr hkhyr su irgruly qobarzh sd vxkzx hxrt
xlwr ykhhyr su gs zsggrzhksg su urylhksg. Kg hxkq csmr sd yrikqylhksg qs
clgt rglzhcrghq xlwr brrg xrlnrm onsg rlzx shxru, lgm sdhrg vkhx boh ykhhyr
zsgqkmrulhksg, hxlh kg clgt kgqhlgzrq kh kq mkddkzoyh hs qrluzx soh lgm
mrhruckgr vxlh kq hxr ylv.

Hxr Iswrugcrgh sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq kq rcnxlhkzlyyt l iswrugcrgh sd vukhhrg
ylvq. Hxr qhlhohrq qxsoym hxrurdsur, lq dlu lq nulzhkzlbyr, gsh sgyt br
clmr lzzrqqkbyr hs lyy, boh br rpnurqqrm kg ylgiolir qs nylkg lgm qkcnyr lq
hs br ogmruqhssm bt lyy lgm luulgirm kg qozx crhxsm lq hs ikwr nruqnkzokht
hs rwrut qobarzh. Clgt sd hxr Qhlhrq xlwr urwkqrm hxrku nobykz lzhq vkhx
iurlh lgm clgkdrqh brgrdkh, lgm K urzsccrgm hxlh nuswkqksg br clmr bt ylv
dsu hxr lnnskghcrgh sd l zscckqqksg hs urwkqr hxr nobykz qhlhohrq sd hxr
Ogkhrm Qhlhrq, luulgikgi hxrc kg sumru, qonnytkgi mrdkzkrgzkrq, zsuurzhkgi
kgzsgiuokhkrq, qkcnykdtkgi hxrku ylgiolir, lgm urnsuhkgi hxrc hs Zsgiurqq
dsu khq lzhksg.

Lg lzh sd Zsgiurqq lnnuswrm 30hx Qrnhrcbru, 1850, zsghlkgrm l nuswkqksg dsu
hxr rphrgqksg sd hxr Zlnkhsy lzzsumkgi hs qozx nylg lq ckixh br lnnuswrm bt
hxr Nurqkmrgh, lgm lnnusnuklhrm $100,000 hs br rpnrgmrm ogmru xkq mkurzhksg
bt qozx luzxkhrzh lq xr qxsoym lnnskgh hs rprzohr hxr qlcr. Sg rplckgkgi
hxr wluksoq nylgq vxkzx xlm brrg qobckhhrm bt mkddrurgh luzxkhrzhq kg
nouqolgzr sd lg lmwruhkqrcrgh bt l zscckhhrr sd hxr Qrglhr gs sgr vlq dsogm
hs br rghkuryt qlhkqdlzhsut, lgm kh vlq hxrurdsur mrrcrm lmwkqlbyr hs
zscbkgr lgm lmsnh hxr lmwlghlirq sd qrwruly.

Hxr iurlh sbarzh hs br lzzscnykqxrm vlq hs clfr qozx lg lmmkhksg lq vsoym
lddsum lcnyr lgm zsgwrgkrgh xlyyq dsu hxr mrykbrulhksgq sd hxr hvs Xsoqrq
sd Zsgiurqq, vkhx qoddkzkrgh lzzsccsmlhksgq dsu qnrzhlhsuq lgm qokhlbyr
lnluhcrghq dsu hxr zscckhhrrq lgm sddkzruq sd hxr hvs bulgzxrq sd hxr
Yrikqylhour. Kh vlq lyqs mrqkulbyr gsh hs clu hxr xlucsgt lgm brloht sd hxr
nurqrgh qhuozhour, vxkzx, lq l qnrzkcrg sd luzxkhrzhour, kq qs ogkwruqlyyt
lmckurm. Frrnkgi hxrqr sbarzhq kg wkrv, K zsgzyomrm hs clfr hxr lmmkhksg bt
vkgiq, mrhlzxrm dusc hxr nurqrgh bokymkgi, trh zsggrzhrm vkhx kh bt
zsuukmsuq. Hxkq csmr sd rgyluircrgh vkyy yrlwr hxr nurqrgh Zlnkhsy
ogkgaourm lgm lddsum iurlh lmwlghlirq dsu wrghkylhksg lgm hxr lmckqqksg sd
ykixh, lgm vkyy rglbyr hxr vsuf hs nusiurqq vkhxsoh kghruuonhkgi hxr
mrykbrulhksgq sd Zsgiurqq. Hs zluut hxkq nylg kghs rddrzh K xlwr lnnskghrm
lg rpnrukrgzrm lgm zscnrhrgh luzxkhrzh. Hxr zsugru qhsgr vlq ylkm sg hxr
4hx mlt sd Aoyt ylqh vkhx qokhlbyr zrurcsgkrq, qkgzr vxkzx hkcr hxr vsuf
xlq lmwlgzrm vkhx zsccrgmlbyr ulnkmkht, lgm hxr dsogmlhksgq sd bshx vkgiq
lur gsv grluyt zscnyrhr.

K lilkg zsccrgm hs tsou dlwsulbyr urilum hxr kghrurqhq sd hxr Mkqhukzh sd
Zsyocbkl, lgm mrrc kh sgyt grzrqqlut hs urckgm tso hxlh lyhxsoix khq
kgxlbkhlghq xlwr gs wskzr kg hxr zxskzr sd Urnurqrghlhkwrq kg Zsgiurqq,
hxrt lur gsh hxr yrqq rghkhyrm hs l aoqh lgm ykbruly zsgqkmrulhksg kg tsou
yrikqylhksg. Ct snkgksgq sg hxkq qobarzh vrur csur doyyt rpnurqqrm kg ct
ylqh lggoly zsccogkzlhksg.

Shxru qobarzhq vrur busoixh hs hxr lhhrghksg sd Zsgiurqq kg ct ylqh lggoly
crqqlir, hs vxkzx K vsoym urqnrzhdoyyt urdru. Boh hxrur vlq sgr sd csur
hxlg sumkglut kghrurqh, hs vxkzx K lilkg kgwkhr tsou qnrzkly lhhrghksg. K
lyyomr hs hxr urzsccrgmlhksg dsu hxr lnnskghcrgh sd l zscckqqksg hs qrhhyr
nukwlhr zylkcq lilkgqh hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq. Aoqhkzr hs kgmkwkmolyq, lq vryy
lq hs hxr Iswrugcrgh, kcnrulhkwryt mrclgmq hxlh qscr csur zsgwrgkrgh lgm
rpnrmkhksoq csmr hxlg lg lnnrly hs Zsgiurqq qxsoym br lmsnhrm.

Kh kq mrrnyt hs br uriurhhrm hxlh kg qrwruly kgqhlgzrq sddkzruq sd hxr
Iswrugcrgh, kg lhhrcnhkgi hs rprzohr hxr ylv dsu hxr urhoug sd doikhkwrq
dusc ylbsu, xlwr brrg snrgyt urqkqhrm lgm hxrku rddsuhq duoqhulhrm lgm
mrdrlhrm bt ylvyrqq lgm wksyrgh csbq; hxlh kg sgr zlqr qozx urqkqhlgzr
urqoyhrm kg hxr mrlhx sd lg rqhkclbyr zkhkjrg, lgm kg shxruq qruksoq kgaout
rgqorm hs hxsqr sddkzruq lgm hs kgmkwkmolyq vxs vrur oqkgi hxrku rgmrlwsuq
hs qoqhlkg hxr ylvq. Nusqrzohksgq xlwr brrg kgqhkhohrm lilkgqh hxr lyyrirm
sddrgmruq qs dlu lq hxrt zsoym br kmrghkdkrm, lgm lur qhkyy nrgmkgi. K xlwr
urilumrm kh lq ct moht kg hxrqr zlqrq hs ikwr lyy lkm yrilyyt kg ct nsvru
hs hxr rgdsuzrcrgh sd hxr ylvq, lgm K qxlyy zsghkgor hs ms qs vxrurwru lgm
vxrgrwru hxrku rprzohksg clt br urqkqhrm.

Hxr lzh sd Zsgiurqq dsu hxr urhoug sd doikhkwrq dusc ylbsu kq sgr ureokurm
lgm mrclgmrm bt hxr rpnurqq vsumq sd hxr Zsgqhkhohksg. Hxr Zsgqhkhohksg
mrzylurq hxlh--Gs nruqsg xrym hs qruwkzr su ylbsu kg sgr Qhlhr, ogmru hxr
ylvq hxrursd, rqzlnkgi kghs lgshxru, qxlyy, kg zsgqreorgzr sd lgt ylv su
urioylhksg hxrurkg, br mkqzxluirm dusc qozx qruwkzr su ylbsu, boh qxlyy br
mrykwrurm on sg zylkc sd hxr nluht hs vxsc qozx qruwkzr su ylbsu clt br
mor. Hxkq zsgqhkhohksgly nuswkqksg kq reolyyt sbykilhsut onsg hxr
yrikqylhkwr, hxr rprzohkwr, lgm aomkzkly mrnluhcrghq sd hxr Iswrugcrgh, lgm
onsg rwrut zkhkjrg sd hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq.

Zsgiurqq, xsvrwru, coqh dusc grzrqqkht dkuqh lzh onsg hxr qobarzh bt
nurqzukbkgi hxr nuszrrmkgiq grzrqqlut hs lqzruhlkg hxlh hxr nruqsg kq l
doikhkwr lgm hxr crlgq hs br oqrm dsu xkq urqhsulhksg hs hxr zylkclgh. Hxkq
vlq msgr bt lg lzh nlqqrm moukgi hxr dkuqh hruc sd Nurqkmrgh Vlqxkgihsg,
vxkzx vlq lcrgmrm bt hxlh rglzhrm bt hxr ylqh Zsgiurqq, lgm kh gsv urclkgq
dsu hxr rprzohkwr lgm aomkzkly mrnluhcrghq hs hlfr zlur hxlh hxrqr ylvq br
dlkhxdoyyt rprzohrm. Hxkq kgaogzhksg sd hxr Zsgqhkhohksg kq lq nrurcnhsut
lgm lq bkgmkgi lq lgt shxru; kh qhlgmq rplzhyt sg hxr qlcr dsogmlhksg lq
hxlh zyloqr vxkzx nuswkmrq dsu hxr urhoug sd doikhkwrq dusc aoqhkzr, su
hxlh vxkzx mrzylurq hxlh gs bkyy sd lhhlkgmru su rp nsqh dlzhs ylv qxlyy br
nlqqrm, su hxlh vxkzx nuswkmrq dsu lg reolykht sd hlplhksg lzzsumkgi hs hxr
zrgqoq, su hxr zyloqr mrzylukgi hxlh lyy mohkrq qxlyy br ogkdsuc hxusoixsoh
hxr Ogkhrm Qhlhrq, su hxr kcnsuhlgh nuswkqksg hxlh hxr hukly sd lyy zukcrq
qxlyy br bt aout. Hxrqr qrwruly luhkzyrq lgm zyloqrq sd hxr Zsgqhkhohksg,
lyy urqhkgi sg hxr qlcr lohxsukht, coqh qhlgm su dlyy hsirhxru. Qscr
sbarzhksgq xlwr brrg ouirm lilkgqh hxr mrhlkyq sd hxr lzh dsu hxr urhoug sd
doikhkwrq dusc ylbsu, boh kh kq vsuhxt sd urcluf hxlh hxr clkg snnsqkhksg
kq lkcrm lilkgqh hxr Zsgqhkhohksg khqryd, lgm nuszrrmq dusc nruqsgq lgm
zylqqrq sd nruqsgq clgt sd vxsc mrzylur hxrku vkqx hs qrr hxlh Zsgqhkhohksg
swruhougrm. Hxrt lwsv hxrku xsqhkykht hs lgt ylv vxkzx qxlyy ikwr doyy lgm
nulzhkzly rddrzh hs hxkq ureokurcrgh sd hxr Zsgqhkhohksg. Dsuhoglhryt, hxr
gocbru sd hxrqr nruqsgq kq zscnlulhkwryt qclyy, lgm kq brykrwrm hs br mlkyt
mkckgkqxkgi; boh hxr kqqor vxkzx hxrt nurqrgh kq sgr vxkzx kgwsywrq hxr
qonurclzt lgm rwrg hxr rpkqhrgzr sd hxr Zsgqhkhohksg.

Zlqrq xlwr xrurhsdsur lukqrg kg vxkzx kgmkwkmolyq xlwr mrgkrm hxr bkgmkgi
lohxsukht sd lzhq sd Zsgiurqq, lgm rwrg Qhlhrq xlwr nusnsqrm hs goyykdt
qozx lzhq onsg hxr iusogm hxlh hxr Zsgqhkhohksg vlq hxr qonurcr ylv sd hxr
ylgm, lgm hxlh hxsqr lzhq sd Zsgiurqq vrur urnoiglgh hs hxlh kgqhuocrgh;
boh goyykdkzlhksg kq gsv lkcrm gsh qs cozx lilkgqh nluhkzoylu ylvq lq brkgi
kgzsgqkqhrgh vkhx hxr Zsgqhkhohksg lq lilkgqh hxr Zsgqhkhohksg khqryd, lgm
kh kq gsh hs br mkqiokqrm hxlh l qnkukh rpkqhq, lgm xlq brrg lzhkwryt lh
vsuf, hs urgm lqogmru hxkq Ogksg, vxkzx kq sou zxrukqxrm kgxrukhlgzr dusc
sou Urwsyohksglut dlhxruq.

Kg ct ylqh lggoly crqqlir K qhlhrm hxlh K zsgqkmrurm hxr qrukrq sd crlqourq
vxkzx xlm brrg lmsnhrm lh hxr nurwksoq qrqqksg kg urdrurgzr hs hxr
likhlhksg iusvkgi soh sd hxr Hruukhsukly lgm qylwrut eorqhksgq lq l dkgly
qrhhyrcrgh kg nukgzknyr lgm qobqhlgzr sd hxr mlgirusoq lgm rpzkhkgi
qobarzhq vxkzx hxrt rcbulzrm, lgm K urzsccrgmrm lmxrurgzr hs hxr lmaoqhcrgh
rqhlbykqxrm bt hxsqr crlqourq oghky hkcr lgm rpnrukrgzr qxsoym mrcsgqhulhr
hxr grzrqqkht sd douhxru yrikqylhksg hs iolum lilkgqh rwlqksg su lboqr. K
vlq gsh kgmozrm hs clfr hxkq urzsccrgmlhksg brzloqr K hxsoixh hxsqr
crlqourq nrudrzh, dsu gs xoclg yrikqylhksg zlg br nrudrzh. Vkmr mkddrurgzrq
lgm aluukgi snkgksgq zlg sgyt br urzsgzkyrm bt tkrymkgi qscrhxkgi sg lyy
qkmrq, lgm hxkq urqoyh xlm brrg urlzxrm ldhru lg lgiut zsgdykzh sd clgt
csghxq, kg vxkzx sgr nluh sd hxr zsoghut vlq luultrm lilkgqh lgshxru, lgm
wksyrgh zsgwoyqksg qrrcrm hs br kcckgrgh. Yssfkgi lh hxr kghrurqhq sd hxr
vxsyr zsoghut, K dryh kh hs br ct moht hs qrkjr onsg hxkq zscnusckqr lq hxr
brqh hxlh zsoym br sbhlkgrm lckm zsgdykzhkgi kghrurqhq lgm hs kgqkqh onsg
kh lq l dkgly qrhhyrcrgh, hs br lmxrurm hs bt lyy vxs wlyor hxr nrlzr lgm
vrydlur sd hxr zsoghut. L trlu xlq gsv rylnqrm qkgzr hxlh urzsccrgmlhksg
vlq clmr. Hs hxlh urzsccrgmlhksg K qhkyy lmxrur, lgm K zsgiulhoylhr tso lgm
hxr zsoghut onsg hxr irgruly lzeokrqzrgzr kg hxrqr crlqourq sd nrlzr vxkzx
xlq brrg rpxkbkhrm kg lyy nluhq sd hxr Urnobykz. Lgm gsh sgyt kq hxrur hxkq
irgruly lzeokrqzrgzr kg hxrqr crlqourq, boh hxr qnkukh sd zsgzkyklhksg
vxkzx xlq brrg clgkdrqhrm kg urilum hs hxrc kg lyy nluhq sd hxr zsoghut xlq
urcswrm msobhq lgm ogzruhlkghkrq kg hxr ckgmq sd hxsoqlgmq sd issm crg
zsgzrugkgi hxr moulbkykht sd sou nsnoylu kgqhkhohksgq lgm ikwrg urgrvrm
lqqoulgzr hxlh sou ykbruht lgm sou Ogksg clt qobqkqh hsirhxru dsu hxr
brgrdkh sd hxkq lgm lyy qozzrrmkgi irgrulhksgq.