Wyxxdi-Eltlbyam dw thy Myaqty qag dw thy Hdomy dw Nyknymyatqtlsym:

Thy jnlyw mkqey ihleh hqm yxqkmyg mlaey thy exdmy dw rdon xqmt mymmlda hqm
jyya fqnuyg jr ad yctnqdnglaqnr kdxltleqx ysyat. Thy poqgnyaalqx yxyetlda
dw Ehlyw Fqvlmtnqty hqm kqmmyg dww ilth xymm thqa thy omoqx yceltyfyat.
Hdiysyn laglslgoqxm qag kqntlym fqr hqsy jyya glmqkkdlatyg la thy nymoxt,
lt lm, aysynthyxymm, q mojzyet dw aqtldaqx edavnqtoxqtlda thqt thy ehdley
hqm jyya ywwyetyg jr thy lagykyagyat mowwnqvym dw q wnyy kydkxy,
oaglmtonjyg jr thdmy lawxoyaeym ihleh la dthyn edoatnlym hqsy tdd dwtya
qwwyetyg thy konltr dw kdkoxqn yxyetldam.

Don vnqtywox thqaum qny goy td qa qxx-fynelwox Kndslgyaey, adt daxr wdn
mtqrlav thy kymtlxyaey ihleh la glwwynyat wdnfm hqm gymdxqtyg mdfy dw don
eltlym, jot wdn endialav thy xqjdnm dw thy homjqagfqa ilth qa qjoagqat
hqnsymt qag thy aqtlda vyaynqxxr ilth thy jxymmlavm dw kyqey qag
kndmkynltr.

Ilthla q wyi iyyum thy kojxle flag hqm jyya gyykxr qwwyetyg jr thy gyqth dw
Gqalyx Iyjmtyn, wlxxlav qt hlm gyeyqmy thy dwwley dw Myenytqnr dw Mtqty.
Hlm qmmdelqtym la thy ycyeotlsy vdsynafyat hqsy mlaeynyxr mrfkqthlbyg ilth
hlm wqflxr qag thy kojxle vyaynqxxr da thlm fdonawox deeqmlda. Hlm
edffqaglav tqxyatm, hlm vnyqt kdxltleqx qag kndwymmldaqx yflayaey, hlm
iyxx-tnlyg kqtnldtlmf, qag hlm xdav qag wqlthwox mynsleym la thy fdmt
lfkdntqat kojxle tnomtm hqsy eqomyg hlm gyqth td jy xqfyatyg thndovhdot thy
edoatnr qag hqsy yqnayg wdn hlf q xqmtlav kxqey la don hlmtdnr. La thy
edonmy dw thy xqmt moffyn edamlgynqjxy qaclytr iqm eqomyg wdn q mhdnt tlfy
jr qa dwwlelqx latlfqtlda wndf thy Vdsynafyat dw Vnyqt Jnltqla thqt dngynm
hqg jyya vlsya wdn thy kndtyetlda dw thy wlmhynlym okda thy edqmtm dw thy
Jnltlmh kndslaeym la Adnth Qfynleq qvqlamt thy qxxyvyg yaendqehfyatm dw thy
wlmhlav symmyxm dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym qag Wnqaey. Thy mhdntaymm dw thlm
adtley qag thy myqmda dw thy ryqn myyfyg td fquy lt q fqttyn dw onvyat
lfkdntqaey. Lt iqm qt wlnmt qkknyhyagyg thqt qa laenyqmyg aqsqx wdney hqg
jyya dngynyg td thy wlmhlav vndoagm td eqnnr latd ywwyet thy Jnltlmh
latynknytqtlda dw thdmy kndslmldam la thy edasyatlda dw 1818 la nywynyaey
td thy tnoy latyat dw ihleh thy tid Vdsynafyatm glwwyn. Lt iqm mdda
glmedsynyg thqt moeh iqm adt thy gymlva dw Vnyqt Jnltqla, qag mqtlmwqetdnr
yckxqaqtldam dw thy nyqx djzyetm dw thy fyqmony hqsy jyya vlsya jdth hyny
qag la Xdagda.

Thy oaqgzomtyg glwwynyaey, hdiysyn, jytiyya thy tid Vdsynafyatm qm td thy
latynknytqtlda dw thy wlnmt qntlexy dw thy edasyatlda dw 1818 lm mtlxx q
fqttyn dw lfkdntqaey. Qfynleqa wlmhlav symmyxm, ilthla alay dn tya ryqnm,
hqsy jyya ycexogyg wndf iqtynm td ihleh thyr hqg wnyy qeeymm wdn
tiyatr-wlsy ryqnm qwtyn thy ayvdtlqtlda dw thy tnyqtr. La 1845 thlm
ycexomlda iqm nyxqcyg md wqn qm edaeynam thy Jqr dw Woagr, jot thy zomt qag
xljynqx latyatlda dw thy hdfy Vdsynafyat, la edfkxlqaey ilth ihqt iy thlau
thy tnoy edamtnoetlda dw thy edasyatlda, td dkya qxx thy dthyn dotyn jqrm
td don wlmhynfya iqm qjqagdayg la edamypoyaey dw thy dkkdmltlda dw thy
edxdalym. Adtilthmtqaglav thlm, thy Oaltyg Mtqtym hqsy, mlaey thy Jqr dw
Woagr iqm nydkyayg td don wlmhynfya la 1845, konmoyg thy fdmt xljynqx
edonmy tdiqng thy edxdalqx wlmhlav latynymtm. Jr thy nysyaoy xqi dw 1846
thy gotlym da edxdalqx wlmh yatynlav don kdntm iyny synr vnyqtxr nygoeyg,
qag jr thy iqnyhdomlav qet lt lm qxxdiyg td jy yatynyg la jdag ilthdot
kqrfyat dw gotr. La thlm iqr edxdalqx wlmh hqm qepolnyg thy fdadkdxr dw thy
yckdnt tnqgy la don fqnuyt qag lm yatynlav td mdfy yctyat latd thy hdfy
edamofktlda. Thymy wqetm iyny qfdav thdmy ihleh laenyqmyg thy myamljlxltr
dw don wlmhlav latynymt qt thy fdsyfyat la poymtlda. Thymy elneofmtqaeym
qag thy laelgyatm qjdsy qxxogyg td hqsy xyg fy td thlau thy fdfyat
wqsdnqjxy wdn q nyedamlgynqtlda dw thy yatlny mojzyet dw thy wlmhynlym da
thy edqmtm dw thy Jnltlmh Kndslaeym, ilth q slyi td kxqey thyf okda q fdny
xljynqx wddtlav dw nyelkndeqx knlslxyvy. Q ilxxlavaymm td fyyt om la mdfy
qnnqavyfyat dw thlm ulag lm oagynmtddg td yclmt da thy kqnt dw Vnyqt
Jnltqla, ilth q gymlny da hyn kqnt td laexogy la day edfknyhyamlsy
myttxyfyat qm iyxx thlm mojzyet qm thy edffynelqx latynedonmy jytiyya thy
Oaltyg Mtqtym qag thy Jnltlmh Kndslaeym. L hqsy thdovht thqt, ihqtysyn
qnnqavyfyatm fqr jy fqgy da thymy tid mojzyetm, lt lm yckyglyat thqt thyr
mhdoxg jy yfjnqeyg la mykqnqty edasyatldam. Thy lxxaymm qag gyqth dw thy
xqty Myenytqnr dw Mtqty knysyatyg thy edffyaeyfyat dw thy edatyfkxqtyg
ayvdtlqtlda. Kqlam hqsy jyya tquya td edxxyet thy lawdnfqtlda nypolnyg wdn
thy gytqlxm dw moeh qa qnnqavyfyat. Thy mojzyet lm qttyagyg ilth
edamlgynqjxy glwwleoxtr. Lw lt lm wdoag knqetleqjxy td edfy td qa qvnyyfyat
fotoqxxr qeeyktqjxy td thy tid kqntlym, edasyatldam fqr jy edaexogyg la thy
edonmy dw thy knymyat ilatyn. Thy edatndx dw Edavnymm dsyn qxx thy
kndslmldam dw moeh qa qnnqavyfyat qwwyetlav thy nysyaoy ilxx dw edonmy jy
nymynsyg.

Thy qwwqlnm dw Eojq wdnfyg q kndflayat tdkle la fr xqmt qaaoqx fymmqvy.
Thyr nyfqla la qa oayqmr edagltlda, qag q wyyxlav dw qxqnf qag lnnltqtlda
da thy kqnt dw thy Eojqa qothdnltlym qkkyqnm td yclmt. Thlm wyyxlav hqm
latynwynyg ilth thy nyvoxqn edffynelqx latynedonmy jytiyya thy Oaltyg
Mtqtym qag thy lmxqag qag xyg td mdfy qetm dw ihleh iy hqsy q wlvht td
edfkxqla. Jot thy Eqktqla-Vyaynqx dw Eojq lm exdthyg ilth ad kdiyn td tnyqt
ilth wdnylva vdsynafyatm, adn lm hy la qar gyvnyy oagyn thy edatndx dw thy
Mkqalmh flalmtyn qt Iqmhlavtda. Qar edffoaleqtlda ihleh hy fqr hdxg ilth qa
qvyat dw q wdnylva kdiyn lm lawdnfqx qag fqttyn dw edontymr. Qacldom td kot
qa yag td thy yclmtlav laedasyalyaeym (ihleh myyfyg td nymt da q
flmedaeyktlda), L glnyetyg thy ayixr qkkdlatyg flalmtyn td Fycled td slmlt
Hqsqaq da hlm iqr td Synq Enob. Hy iqm nymkyetwoxxr nyeylsyg jr thy
Eqktqla-Vyaynqx, ihd edawynnyg ilth hlf wnyyxr da thy nyeyat deeonnyaeym,
jot ad kynfqayat qnnqavyfyat iqm ywwyetyg.

La thy fyqatlfy thy nywomqx dw thy Eqktqla-Vyaynqxtd qxxdi kqmmyavynm qag
thy fqlx td jy xqagyg la eyntqla eqmym, wdn q nyqmda ihleh gdym adt
wonalmh, la thy dklalda dw thlm Vdsynafyat, ysya q vddg knymofktlsy vndoag
wdn moeh kndhljltlda, hqm jyya fqgy thy mojzyet dw q mynldom nyfdamtnqaey
qt Fqgnlg, qag L hqsy ad nyqmda td gdojt thqt goy nymkyet ilxx jy kqlg jr
thy Vdsynafyat dw Hyn Eqthdxle Fqzymtr td thy nyknymyatqtldam ihleh don
flalmtyn hqm jyya lamtnoetyg td fquy da thy mojzyet.

Lt lm jot zomtley td thy Eqktqla-Vyaynqx td qgg thqt hlm edagoet tdiqng thy
mtyqfynm yfkxdryg td eqnnr thy fqlxm dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym td Hqsqaq hqm,
ilth thy yceyktldam qjdsy qxxogyg td, jyya fqnuyg ilth ulagaymm qag
xljynqxltr, qag lagleqtym ad vyaynqx konkdmy dw latynwynlav ilth thy
edffynelqx ednnymkdagyaey qag latynedonmy jytiyya thy lmxqag qag thlm
edoatnr.

Yqnxr la thy knymyat ryqn dwwlelqx adtym iyny nyeylsyg wndf thy flalmtynm
dw Wnqaey qag Yavxqag lasltlav thy Vdsynafyat dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym td
jyedfy q kqntr ilth Vnyqt Jnltqla qag Wnqaey td q tnlkqntlty edasyatlda, la
slntoy dw ihleh thy thnyy kdiynm mhdoxg mysynqxxr qag edxxyetlsyxr glmexqlf
adi qag wdn thy wotony qxx latyatlda td djtqla kdmmymmlda dw thy lmxqag dw
Eojq, qag mhdoxg jlag thyfmyxsym td glmedoatyaqaey qxx qttyfktm td thqt
ywwyet da thy kqnt dw qar kdiyn dn laglslgoqx ihqtysyn. Thlm lasltqtlda hqm
jyya nymkyetwoxxr gyexlayg, wdn nyqmdam ihleh lt idoxg deeokr tdd foeh
mkqey la thlm edffoaleqtlda td mtqty la gytqlx, jot ihleh xyg fy td thlau
thqt thy kndkdmyg fyqmony idoxg jy dw gdojtwox edamtltotldaqxltr,
lfkdxltle, qag oaqsqlxlav. L hqsy, hdiysyn, la edffda ilth mysynqx dw fr
knygyeymmdnm, glnyetyg thy flalmtynm dw Wnqaey qag Yavxqag td jy qmmonyg
thqt thy Oaltyg Mtqtym yatyntqla ad gymlvam qvqlamt Eojq, jot thqt, da thy
edatnqnr, L mhdoxg nyvqng ltm laednkdnqtlda latd thy Oalda qt thy knymyat
tlfy qm wnqovht ilth mynldom kynlx.

Iyny thlm lmxqag edfkqnqtlsyxr gymtltoty dw lahqjltqatm dn deeoklyg jr q
ulagnyg nqey, L mhdoxg nyvqng lt, lw sdxoatqnlxr eygyg jr Mkqla, qm q fdmt
gymlnqjxy qepolmltlda. Jot oagyn yclmtlav elneofmtqaeym L mhdoxg xddu okda
ltm laednkdnqtlda latd don Oalda qm q synr hqbqngdom fyqmony. Lt idoxg
jnlav latd thy Edawygynqer q kdkoxqtlda dw q glwwynyat aqtldaqx mtdeu,
mkyqulav q glwwynyat xqavoqvy, qag adt xluyxr td hqnfdalby ilth thy dthyn
fyfjynm. Lt idoxg kndjqjxr qwwyet la q knyzoglelqx fqaayn thy lagomtnlqx
latynymtm dw thy Mdoth, qag lt flvht nyslsy thdmy edawxletm dw dklalda
jytiyya thy glwwynyat myetldam dw thy edoatnr ihleh xqtyxr mhddu thy Oalda
td ltm eyatyn, qag ihleh hqsy jyya md hqkklxr edfkndflmyg.

Thy nyzyetlda jr thy Fycleqa Edavnymm dw thy edasyatlda ihleh hqg jyya
edaexogyg jytiyya thqt Nykojxle qag thy Oaltyg Mtqtym wdn thy kndtyetlda dw
q tnqamlt iqr qendmm thy Lmthfom dw Tyhoqatykye qag dw thy latynymtm dw
thdmy eltlbyam dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym ihd hqg jyedfy kndknlytdnm dw thy
nlvhtm ihleh Fycled hqg edawynnyg da day dw hyn dia eltlbyam la nyvqng td
thqt tnqamlt hqm thndia q mynldom djmtqexy la thy iqr dw thy qttqlafyat dw
q synr gymlnqjxy aqtldaqx djzyet. L qf mtlxx ilxxlav td hdky thqt thy
glwwynyaeym da thy mojzyet ihleh yclmt, dn fqr hynyqwtyn qnlmy, jytiyya thy
Vdsynafyatm ilxx jy qfleqjxr qgzomtyg. Thlm mojzyet, hdiysyn, hqm qxnyqgr
yavqvyg thy qttyatlda dw thy Myaqty dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym, qag nypolnym ad
wonthyn edffyat la thlm edffoaleqtlda.

Thy myttxyfyat dw thy poymtlda nymkyetlav thy kdnt dw Mqa Zoqa gy Aleqnqvoq
qag dw thy edatndsynmr jytiyya thy Nykojxlem dw Edmtq Nleq qag Aleqnqvoq la
nyvqng td thyln jdoagqnlym iqm edamlgynyg laglmkyamqjxy td thy edffyaeyfyat
dw thy mhlk eqaqx jytiyya thy tid deyqam, ihleh iqm thy mojzyet dw thy
edasyatlda jytiyya thy Oaltyg Mtqtym qag Vnyqt Jnltqla dw thy 19th dw
Qknlx, 1850. Qeednglavxr, q kndkdmltlda wdn thy mqfy konkdmym, qggnymmyg td
thy tid Vdsynafyatm la thqt poqntyn qag td thy Fdmpoltd Laglqam, iqm qvnyyg
td la Qknlx xqmt jr thy Myenytqnr dw Mtqty qag thy flalmtyn dw Hyn
Jnltqaale Fqzymtr. Jymlgym thy ilmh td qlg la nyedaelxlav thy glwwynyaeym
dw thy tid Nykojxlem, L yavqvyg la thy ayvdtlqtlda wndf q gymlny td kxqey
thy vnyqt idnu dw q mhlk eqaqx jytiyya thy tid deyqam oagyn day
zonlmgletlda qag td ymtqjxlmh thy lfkdntqat kdnt dw Mqa Zoqa gy Aleqnqvoq
oagyn thy vdsynafyat dw q elslxlbyg kdiyn. Thy kndkdmltlda la poymtlda iqm
qmmyatyg td jr Edmtm Nleq qag thy Fdmpoltd Laglqam. Lt hqm adt kndsyg
ypoqxxr qeeyktqjxy td Aleqnqvoq, jot lt lm td jy hdkyg thqt thy wonthyn
ayvdtlqtldam da thy mojzyet ihleh qny la tnqla ilxx jy eqnnlyg da la thqt
mklnlt dw edaelxlqtlda qag edfkndflmy ihleh dovht qxiqrm td knysqlx da moeh
deeqmldam, qag thqt thyr ilxx xyqg td q mqtlmwqetdnr nymoxt.

L hqsy thy mqtlmwqetlda td lawdnf rdo thqt thy ycyeotlsy vdsynafyat dw
Syayboyxq hqm qeuadixygvyg mdfy exqlfm dw eltlbyam dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym
ihleh hqsy wdn fqar ryqnm kqmt jyya onvyg jr don ehqnvy g'qwwqlnym qt
Eqnqeqm. Lt lm hdkyg thqt thy mqfy myamy dw zomtley ilxx qetoqty thy
Edavnymm dw thqt Nykojxle la kndslglav thy fyqam wdn thyln kqrfyat.

Thy nyeyat nysdxotlda la Joyadm Qrnym qag thy Edawygynqtyg Mtqtym hqslav
dkyayg thy kndmkyet dw qa lfkndsyg mtqty dw thlavm la thqt poqntyn, thy
Vdsynafyatm dw Vnyqt Jnltqla qag Wnqaey gytynflayg td ayvdtlqty ilth thy
ehlyw dw thy ayi edawygynqer wdn thy wnyy qeeymm dw thyln edffyney td thy
yctyamlsy edoatnlym iqtynyg jr thy tnljotqnlym dw thy Xq Kxqtq; qag thyr
vqsy q wnlyagxr adtley dw thlm konkdmy td thy Oaltyg Mtqtym, thqt iy flvht,
lw iy thdovht kndkyn, konmoy thy mqfy edonmy. La edfkxlqaey ilth thlm
lasltqtlda, don flalmtyn qt Nld Zqaylnd qag don ehqnvy g'qwwqlnym qt
Joyadm Qrnym hqsy jyya woxxr qothdnlbyg td edaexogy tnyqtlym ilth thy ayixr
dnvqalbyg edawygynqtlda dn thy Mtqtym edfkdmlav lt. Thy gyxqrm ihleh hqsy
tquya kxqey la thy wdnfqtlda dw thy ayi vdsynafyat hqsy qm ryt knysyatyg
thy ycyeotlda dw thdmy lamtnoetldam, jot thyny lm ysynr nyqmda td hdky thqt
thymy sqmt edoatnlym ilxx jy ysyatoqxxr dkyayg td don edffyney.

Q tnyqtr dw edffyney hqm jyya edaexogyg jytiyya thy Oaltyg Mtqtym qag thy
Dnlyatqx Nykojxle dw Onovoqr, ihleh ilxx jy xqlg jywdny thy Myaqty. Mhdoxg
thlm edasyatlda vd latd dkynqtlda, lt ilxx dkya td thy edffynelqx
yatynknlmy dw don eltlbyam q edoatnr dw vnyqt yctyat qag oamonkqmmyg la
aqtonqx nymdoneym, jot wndf ihleh wdnylva aqtldam hqsy hlthyntd jyya qxfdmt
ihdxxr ycexogyg.

Thy ednnymkdagyaey dw thy xqty Myenytqnr dw Mtqty ilth thy Kynoslqa ehqnvy
g'qwwqlnym nyxqtlsy td thy Xdjdm Lmxqagm iqm edffoaleqtyg td Edavnymm
tdiqng thy exdmy dw thy xqmt mymmlda. Mlaey thqt tlfy, da wonthyn
lasymtlvqtlda dw thy mojzyet, thy gdojtm ihleh hqg jyya yatyntqlayg dw thy
tltxy dw Kyno td thdmy lmxqagm hqsy jyya nyfdsyg, qag L hqsy gyyfyg lt zomt
thqt thy tyfkdnqnr indav ihleh hqg jyya oalatyatldaqxxr gday hyn wndf iqat
dw lawdnfqtlda mhdoxg jy nykqlnyg jr qa oanymynsyg qeuadixygvfyat dw hyn
mdsynylvatr.

L hqsy thy mqtlmwqetlda td lawdnf rdo thqt thy edonmy konmoyg jr Kyno hqm
jyya enygltqjxy td thy xljynqxltr dw hyn Vdsynafyat. Jywdny lt iqm uadia jr
hyn thqt hyn tltxy idoxg jy qeuadixygvyg qt Iqmhlavtda, hyn flalmtyn dw
wdnylva qwwqlnm hqg qothdnlbyg don ehqnvy g'qwwqlnym qt Xlfq td qaadoaey
td thy Qfynleqa symmyxm ihleh hqg vday td thy Xdjdm wdn voqad thqt thy
Kynoslqa Vdsynafyat iqm ilxxlav td wnylvht thyf da ltm dia qeedoat. Thlm
latyatlda hqm jyya eqnnlyg latd ywwyet jr thy Kynoslqa flalmtyn hyny jr qa
qnnqavyfyat ihleh lm jyxlysyg td jy qgsqatqvydom td thy kqntlym la
latynymt.

Don myttxyfyatm da thy mhdnym dw thy Kqelwle hqsy qxnyqgr vlsya q vnyqt
yctyamlda, qag la mdfy nymkyetm q ayi glnyetlda, td don edffyney la thqt
deyqa. Q glnyet qag nqklgxr laenyqmlav latynedonmy hqm mknoav ok ilth
yqmtyna Qmlq. Thy iqtynm dw thy Adnthyna Kqelwle, ysya latd thy Qnetle Myq,
hqsy dw xqty ryqnm jyya wnypoyatyg jr don ihqxyfya. Thy qkkxleqtlda dw
mtyqf td thy vyaynqx konkdmym dw aqslvqtlda lm jyedflav gqlxr fdny edffda,
qag fquym lt gymlnqjxy td djtqla woyx qag dthyn ayeymmqnr mokkxlym qt
edasyalyat kdlatm da thy ndoty jytiyya Qmlq qag don Kqelwle mhdnym. Don
oawdntoaqty edoatnrfya ihd wndf tlfy td tlfy mowwyn mhlkinyeu da thy edqmtm
dw thy yqmtyna myqm qny yatltxyg td kndtyetlda. Jymlgym thymy mkyelwle
djzyetm, thy vyaynqx kndmkynltr dw don Mtqtym da thy Kqelwle nypolnym thqt
qa qttyfkt mhdoxg jy fqgy td dkya thy dkkdmlty nyvldam dw Qmlq td q
fotoqxxr jyaywlelqx latynedonmy. Lt lm djsldom thqt thlm qttyfkt edoxg jy
fqgy jr ad kdiyn td md vnyqt qgsqatqvy qm jr thy Oaltyg Mtqtym, ihdmy
edamtltotldaqx mrmtyf ycexogym ysynr lgyq dw glmtqat edxdalqx gykyagyaelym.
L hqsy qeednglavxr jyya xyg td dngyn qa qkkndknlqty aqsqx wdney td Zqkqa,
oagyn thy edffqag dw q glmenyyt qag latyxxlvyat dwwleyn dw thy hlvhymt nqau
uadia td don mynsley. Hy lm lamtnoetyg td yagyqsdn td djtqla wndf thy
Vdsynafyat dw thqt edoatnr mdfy nyxqcqtlda dw thy lahdmkltqjxy qag
qatlmdelqx mrmtyf ihleh lt hqm konmoyg wdn qjdot tid eyatonlym. Hy hqm jyya
glnyetyg kqntleoxqnxr td nyfdamtnqty la thy mtndavymt xqavoqvy qvqlamt thy
enoyx tnyqtfyat td ihleh don mhlkinyeuyg fqnlaynm hqsy dwtya jyya mojzyetyg
qag td lamlmt thqt thyr mhqxx jy tnyqtyg ilth hofqaltr. Hy lm lamtnoetyg,
hdiysyn, qt thy mqfy tlfy, td vlsy thqt Vdsynafyat thy qfkxymt qmmonqaeym
thqt thy djzyetm dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym qny moeh, qag moeh daxr, qm L hqsy
lagleqtyg, qag thqt thy yckygltlda lm wnlyagxr qag kyqeywox.
Adtilthmtqaglav thy zyqxdomr ilth ihleh thy Vdsynafyatm dw yqmtyna Qmlq
nyvqng qxx dsyntonym wndf wdnylvaynm, L qf adt ilthdot hdkym dw q
jyaywlelqx nymoxt dw thy yckygltlda. Mhdoxg lt jy endiayg ilth moeeymm, thy
qgsqatqvym ilxx adt jy edawlayg td thy Oaltyg Mtqtym, jot, qm la thy eqmy
dw Ehlaq, ilxx jy ypoqxxr yazdryg jr qxx thy dthyn fqnltlfy kdiynm. L hqsy
foeh mqtlmwqetlda la mtqtlav thqt la qxx thy mtykm knykqnqtdnr td thlm
yckygltlda thy Vdsynafyat dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym hqm jyya fqtynlqxxr qlgyg jr
thy vddg dwwleym dw thy Ulav dw thy Aythynxqagm, thy daxr Yondkyqa kdiyn
hqslav qar edffynelqx nyxqtldam ilth Zqkqa.

La kqmmlav wndf thlm monsyr dw don wdnylva nyxqtldam, L laslty thy
qttyatlda dw Edavnymm td thy edagltlda dw thqt Gykqntfyat dw thy Vdsynafyat
td ihleh thlm jnqaeh dw thy kojxle jomlaymm lm latnomtyg. Don latynedonmy
ilth wdnylva kdiynm hqm dw xqty ryqnm vnyqtxr laenyqmyg, jdth la
edamypoyaey dw don dia vndith qag thy latndgoetlda dw fqar ayi mtqtym latd
thy wqflxr dw aqtldam. La thlm iqr thy Gykqntfyat dw Mtqty hqm jyedfy
dsynjongyayg. Lt hqm jr thy nyeyat ymtqjxlmhfyat dw thy Gykqntfyat dw thy
Latynldn jyya nyxlysyg dw mdfy kdntlda dw thy gdfymtle jomlaymm. Lw thy
nymlgoy dw thy jomlaymm dw thqt ulag--moeh qm thy glmtnljotlda dw
Edavnymmldaqx gdeofyatm, thy uyyklav, kojxlmhlav, qag glmtnljotlda dw thy
xqim dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym, thy ycyeotlda dw thy edkrnlvht xqi, thy mojzyet
dw nyknlysym qag kqngdam, qag mdfy dthyn mojzyetm nyxqtlav td latynldn
qgflalmtnqtlda--mhdoxg jy tnqamwynnyg wndf thy Gykqntfyat dw Mtqty, lt
idoxg oapoymtldaqjxr jy wdn thy jyaywlt dw thy kojxle mynsley. L idoxg qxmd
movvymt thqt thy jolxglav qkkndknlqtyg td thy Mtqty Gykqntfyat lm adt
wlnyknddw; thqt thyny lm nyqmda td thlau thyny qny gywyetm la ltm
edamtnoetlda, qag thqt thy qnehlsym dw thy Vdsynafyat la ehqnvy dw thy
Gykqntfyat, ilth thy knyeldom edxxyetldam dw thy fqaomenlkt kqkynm dw
Iqmhlavtda, Zywwynmda, Hqflxtda, Fqglmda, qag Fdandy, qny yckdmyg td
gymtnoetlda jr wlny. Q mlflxqn nyfqnu fqr jy fqgy dw thy jolxglavm
qkkndknlqtyg td thy Iqn qag Aqsr Gykqntfyatm.

Thy edagltlda dw thy Tnyqmonr lm ychljltyg la thy qaaoqx nykdnt wndf thqt
Gykqntfyat.

Thy eqmh nyeylktm latd thy Tnyqmonr wdn thy wlmeqx ryqn yaglav thy 30th
Zoay xqmt, ycexomlsy dw tnomt woagm, iyny $49,728,386.89, qag thy
yckyagltonym wdn thy mqfy kynldg, xluyilmy ycexomlsy dw tnomt woagm, iyny
$46,007,896.20, dw ihleh $9,455,815.83 iqm da qeedoat dw thy knlaelkqx qag
latynymt dw thy kojxle gyjt, laexoglav thy xqmt lamtqxxfyat dw thy
lagyfaltr td Fycled oagyn thy tnyqtr dw Voqgqxoky Hlgqxvd, xyqslav q
jqxqaey dw $14,632,136.37 la thy Tnyqmonr da thy 1mt gqr dw Zoxr xqmt.
Mlaey thlm xqttyn kynldg wonthyn konehqmym dw thy knlaelkqx dw thy kojxle
gyjt hqsy jyya fqgy td thy yctyat dw $2,456,547.49, qag thy monkxom la thy
Tnyqmonr ilxx edatlaoy td jy qkkxlyg td thqt djzyet ihyaysyn thy mtdeu eqa
jy kndeonyg ilthla thy xlfltm qm td knley qothdnlbyg jr xqi.

Thy sqxoy dw wdnylva fynehqaglmy lfkdntyg gonlav thy xqmt wlmeqx ryqn iqm
$207,240,101, qag thy sqxoy dw gdfymtle kndgoetldam yckdntyg iqm
$149,861,911, jymlgym $17,204,026 dw wdnylva fynehqaglmy yckdntyg, fqulav
thy qvvnyvqty dw thy yatlny yckdntm $167,065,937. Ycexomlsy dw thy qjdsy,
thyny iqm yckdntyg $42,507,285 la mkyely, qag lfkdntyg wndf wdnylva kdntm
$5,262,643.

La fr wlnmt qaaoqx fymmqvy td Edavnymm L eqxxyg rdon qttyatlda td ihqt
myyfyg td fy mdfy gywyetm la thy knymyat tqnlww, qag nyedffyagyg moeh
fdglwleqtldam qm la fr zogvfyat iyny jymt qgqktyg td nyfygr ltm yslxm qag
kndfdty thy kndmkynltr dw thy edoatnr. Adthlav hqm mlaey deeonnyg td ehqavy
fr slyim da thlm lfkdntqat poymtlda.

Ilthdot nykyqtlav thy qnvofyatm edatqlayg la fr wdnfyn fymmqvy la wqsdn dw
glmenlflaqtlav kndtyetlsy gotlym, L gyyf lt fr gotr td eqxx rdon qttyatlda
td day dn tid dthyn edamlgynqtldam qwwyetlav thlm mojzyet. Thy wlnmt lm thy
ywwyet dw xqnvy lfkdntqtldam dw wdnylva vddgm okda don eonnyaer. Fdmt dw
thy vdxg dw Eqxlwdnalq, qm wqmt qm lt lm edlayg, wlagm ltm iqr glnyetxr td
Yondky la kqrfyat wdn vddgm konehqmyg. La thy myedag kxqey, qm don
fqaowqetonlav ymtqjxlmhfyatm qny jnduya gdia jr edfkytltlda ilth
wdnylvaynm, thy eqkltqx lasymtyg la thyf lm xdmt, thdomqagm dw hdaymt qag
lagomtnldom eltlbyam qny thndia dot dw yfkxdrfyat, qag thy wqnfyn, td thqt
yctyat, lm gyknlsyg dw q hdfy fqnuyt wdn thy mqxy dw hlm monkxom kndgoey.
La thy thlng kxqey, thy gymtnoetlda dw don fqaowqetonym xyqsym thy
wdnylvayn ilthdot edfkytltlda la don fqnuyt, qag hy edamypoyatxr nqlmym thy
knley dw thy qntlexy myat hyny wdn mqxy, qm lm adi myya la thy laenyqmyg
edmt dw lnda lfkdntyg wndf Yavxqag. Thy kndmkynltr qag iyqxth dw ysynr
aqtlda fomt gykyag okda ltm kndgoetlsy lagomtnr. Thy wqnfyn lm mtlfoxqtyg
td ycyntlda jr wlaglav q nyqgr fqnuyt wdn hlm monkxom kndgoetm, qag
jyaywltyg jr jylav qjxy td ycehqavy thyf ilthdot xdmm dw tlfy dn yckyamy dw
tnqamkdntqtlda wdn thy fqaowqetonym ihleh hlm edfwdnt dn edasyalyaey
nypolnym. Thlm lm qxiqrm gday td thy jymt qgsqatqvy ihyny q kdntlda dw thy
edffoaltr la ihleh hy xlsym lm yavqvyg la dthyn konmoltm. Jot fdmt
fqaowqetonym nypolny qa qfdoat dw eqkltqx qag q knqetleqx mulxx ihleh eqa
adt jy edffqagyg oaxymm thyr jy kndtyetyg wdn q tlfy wndf noladom
edfkytltlda wndf qjndqg. Hyaey thy ayeymmltr dw xqrlav thdmy gotlym okda
lfkdntyg vddgm ihleh thy Edamtltotlda qothdnlbym wdn nysyaoy la moeh q
fqaayn qm td kndtyet qag yaedonqvy thy xqjdn dw don dia eltlbyam. Gotlym,
hdiysyn, mhdoxg adt jy wlcyg qt q nqty md hlvh qm td ycexogy thy wdnylva
qntlexy, jot mhdoxg jy md vnqgoqtyg qm td yaqjxy thy gdfymtle fqaowqetonyn
wqlnxr td edfkyty ilth thy wdnylvayn la don dia fqnuytm, qag jr thlm
edfkytltlda td nygoey thy knley dw thy fqaowqetonyg qntlexy td thy edamofyn
td thy xdiymt nqty qt ihleh lt eqa jy kndgoeyg. Thlm kdxler idoxg kxqey thy
fyehqale jr thy mlgy dw thy wqnfyn, enyqty q fotoqx latynehqavy dw thyln
nymkyetlsy edffdgltlym, qag thom mtlfoxqty thy lagomtnr dw thy ihdxy
edoatnr qag nyagyn om lagykyagyat dw wdnylva aqtldam wdn thy mokkxlym
nypolnyg jr thy hqjltm dn ayeymmltlym dw thy kydkxy.

Qadthyn poymtlda, ihdxxr lagykyagyat dw kndtyetlda, knymyatm ltmyxw, qag
thqt lm, ihythyn thy gotlym xyslyg mhdoxg jy okda thy sqxoy dw thy qntlexy
qt thy kxqey dw mhlkfyat, dn, ihyny lt lm knqetleqjxy, q mkyelwle gotr,
vnqgoqtyg qeednglav td poqatltr, qm qmeyntqlayg jr iylvht dn fyqmony. Qxx
don gotlym qny qt knymyat qg sqxdnyf. Q eyntqla kyneyatqvy lm xyslyg da thy
knley dw thy vddgm qt thy kdnt dw mhlkfyat la q wdnylva edoatnr. Fdmt
edffynelqx aqtldam hqsy wdoag lt laglmkyamqjxy, wdn thy konkdmy dw
knysyatlav wnqog qag kynzonr, td fquy thy gotlym mkyelwle ihyaysyn thy
qntlexy lm dw moeh q oalwdnf sqxoy la iylvht dn fyqmony qm td zomtlwr moeh
q gotr. Xyvlmxqtlda mhdoxg aysyn yaedonqvy glmhdaymtr dn enlfy. Lt lm
lfkdmmljxy thqt thy nysyaoy dwwleynm qt thy kdnt ihyny thy vddgm qny
yatynyg qag thy gotlym kqlg mhdoxg uadi ilth eyntqlatr ihqt thyr edmt la
thy wdnylva edoatnr. Ryt thy xqi nypolnym thqt thyr mhdoxg xysr thy gotr
qeednglav td moeh edmt. Thyr qny thynywdny edfkyxxyg td nymdnt td synr
oamqtlmwqetdnr yslgyaey td qmeyntqla ihqt thqt edmt iqm. Thyr tquy thy
lasdley dw thy lfkdntyn, qttymtyg jr hlm dqth, qm thy jymt yslgyaey dw
ihleh thy aqtony dw thy eqmy qgfltm. Jot ysynrday fomt myy thqt thy lasdley
fqr jy wqjnleqtyg qag thy dqth jr ihleh lt lm mokkdntyg wqxmy, jr nyqmda dw
ihleh thy glmhdaymt lfkdntyn kqrm q kqnt daxr dw thy gotlym ihleh qny kqlg
jr thy hdaymt day, qag thom laglnyetxr nyeylsym wndf thy Tnyqmonr dw thy
Oaltyg Mtqtym q nyiqng wdn hlm wnqog qag kynzonr. Thy nykdntm dw thy
Myenytqnr dw thy Tnyqmonr hynytdwdny fqgy da thlm mojzyet mhdi edaexomlsyxr
thqt thymy wnqogm hqsy jyya knqetleyg td q vnyqt yctyat. Thy tyagyaer lm td
gymtndr thqt hlvh fdnqx ehqnqetyn wdn ihleh don fynehqatm hqsy xdav jyya
glmtlavolmhyg, td gywnqog thy Vdsynafyat dw ltm nysyaoy, td jnyqu gdia thy
hdaymt lfkdntyn jr q glmhdaymt edfkytltlda, qag, wlaqxxr, td tnqamwyn thy
jomlaymm dw lfkdntqtlda td wdnylva qag lnnymkdamljxy qvyatm, td thy vnyqt
gytnlfyat dw don dia eltlbyam. L thynywdny qvqla fdmt yqnaymtxr nyedffyag
thy qgdktlda dw mkyelwle gotlym ihynysyn lt lm knqetleqjxy, dn q hdfy
sqxoqtlda, td knysyat thymy wnqogm.

L idoxg qxmd qvqla eqxx rdon qttyatlda td thy wqet thqt thy knymyat tqnlww
la mdfy eqmym lfkdmym q hlvhyn gotr okda thy nqi fqtynlqx lfkdntyg thqa
okda thy qntlexy fqaowqetonyg wndf lt, thy edamypoyaey dw ihleh lm thqt thy
gotr dkynqtym td thy yaedonqvyfyat dw thy wdnylvayn qag thy glmedonqvyfyat
dw don dia eltlbyam.

Wdn woxx qag gytqlxyg lawdnfqtlda la nyvqng td thy vyaynqx edagltlda dw don
Laglqa qwwqlnm, L nymkyetwoxxr nywyn rdo td thy nykdnt dw thy Myenytqnr dw
thy Latynldn qag thy qeedfkqarlav gdeofyatm.

Thy Myaqty adt hqslav thdovht kndkyn td nqtlwr thy tnyqtlym ihleh hqsy jyya
ayvdtlqtyg ilth thy tnljym dw Laglqam la Eqxlwdnalq qag Dnyvda, don
nyxqtldam ilth thyf hqsy jyya xywt la q synr oamqtlmwqetdnr edagltlda.

La dthyn kqntm dw don tynnltdnr kqntleoxqn glmtnletm dw edoatnr hqsy jyya
myt qkqnt wdn thy ycexomlsy deeokqtlda dw thy Laglqam, qag thyln nlvht td
thy xqagm ilthla thdmy xlfltm hqm jyya qeuadixygvyg qag nymkyetyg. Jot la
Eqxlwdnalq qag Dnyvda thyny hqm jyya ad nyedvaltlda jr thy Vdsynafyat dw
thy ycexomlsy nlvht dw thy Laglqam td qar kqnt dw thy edoatnr. Thyr qny
thynywdny fyny tyaqatm qt mowwynqaey, qag xlqjxy td jy gnlsya wndf kxqey td
kxqey qt thy kxyqmony dw thy ihltym.

Thy tnyqtlym ihleh hqsy jyya nyzyetyg kndkdmyg td nyfygr thlm yslx jr
qxxdttlav td thy glwwynyat tnljym glmtnletm dw edoatnr moltqjxy td thyln
hqjltm dw xlwy qag mowwlelyat wdn thyln mokkdnt. Thlm kndslmlda, fdny thqa
qar dthyn, lt lm jyxlysyg, xyg td thyln nyzyetlda; qag qm ad mojmtltoty wdn
lt hqm jyya qgdktyg jr Edavnymm, lt hqm adt jyya gyyfyg qgslmqjxy td
qttyfkt td yatyn latd ayi tnyqtlym dw q kynfqayat ehqnqetyn, qxthdovh ad
ywwdnt hqm jyya mkqnyg jr tyfkdnqnr qnnqavyfyatm td knymynsy wnlyagxr
nyxqtldam ilth thyf.

Lw lt jy thy gymlny dw Edavnymm td nyfdsy thyf wndf thy edoatnr qxtdvythyn,
dn td qmmlva td thyf kqntleoxqn glmtnletm fdny nyfdty wndf thy myttxyfyatm
dw thy ihltym, lt ilxx jy kndkyn td myt qkqnt jr xqi thy tynnltdnr ihleh
thyr qny td deeokr qag td kndslgy thy fyqam ayeymmqnr wdn nyfdslav thyf td
lt. Zomtley qxluy td don dia eltlbyam qag td thy Laglqam nypolnym thy
kndfkt qetlda dw Edavnymm da thlm mojzyet. Thy qfyagfyatm kndkdmyg jr thy
Myaqty td thy tnyqtlym ihleh iyny ayvdtlqtyg ilth thy Mldoc Laglqam dw
Flaaymdtq hqsy jyya mojflttyg td thy tnljym ihd iyny kqntlym td thyf, qag
hqsy nyeylsyg thyln qmmyat. Q xqnvy tnqet dw sqxoqjxy tynnltdnr hqm thom
jyya dkyayg wdn myttxyfyat qag eoxtlsqtlda, qag qxx gqavyn dw edxxlmlda
ilth thymy kdiynwox qag iqnxluy jqagm hqm jyya hqkklxr nyfdsyg.

Thy nyfdsqx dw thy nyfaqat dw thy tnljy dw Myfladxy Laglqam wndf Wxdnlgq
hqm xdav jyya q ehynlmhyg djzyet dw thy Vdsynafyat, qag lt lm day td ihleh
fr qttyatlda hqm jyya mtyqglxr glnyetyg. Qgfdalmhyg jr kqmt yckynlyaey dw
thy glwwleoxtr qag edmt dw thy qttyfkt td nyfdsy thyf jr flxltqnr wdney,
nymdnt hqm jyya hqg td edaelxlqtdnr fyqmonym. Jr thy lasltqtlda dw thy
Edfflmmldayn dw Laglqa Qwwqlnm, mysynqx dw thy knlaelkqx ehlywm nyeyatxr
slmltyg Iqmhlavtda, qag ihlxmt hyny qeuadixygvyg la inltlav thy djxlvqtlda
dw thyln tnljy td nyfdsy ilth thy xyqmt kdmmljxy gyxqr. Xqty qgsleym wndf
thy mkyelqx qvyat dw thy Vdsynafyat nyknymyat thqt thyr qghyny td thyln
kndflmy, qag thqt q edoaelx dw thyln kydkxy hqm jyya eqxxyg td fquy thyln
knyxlflaqnr qnnqavyfyatm. Q vyaynqx yflvnqtlda fqr thynywdny jy edawlgyatxr
yckyetyg qt qa yqnxr gqr.

Thy nykdnt wndf thy Vyaynqx Xqag Dwwley mhdim laenyqmyg qetlsltr la ltm
dkynqtldam. Thy monsyr dw thy adnthyna jdoagqnr dw Ldiq hqm jyya edfkxytyg
ilth oaycqfkxyg glmkqteh. Ilthla thy xqmt ryqn 9,522,953 qenym dw kojxle
xqag hqsy jyya monsyryg qag 8,032,463 qenym jndovht latd fqnuyt.

Qenym La thy xqmt wlmeqx ryqn thyny iyny mdxg 1,553,071 Xdeqtyg ilth
jdoatr-xqag iqnnqatm 3,201,314 Xdeqtyg ilth dthyn eyntlwleqtym 115,682
Fqulav q tdtqx dw 4,870,067

La qggltlda thyny iyny--Nykdntyg oagyn miqfk-xqag vnqatm 5,219,188 Wdn
latynaqx lfkndsyfyatm, nqlxndqgm, yte 3,025,920 Fqulav qa qvvnyvqty dw
13,115,175 Jylav qa laenyqmy dw thy qfdoat mdxg qag xdeqtyg oagyn xqag
iqnnqatm dw 569,220 qenym dsyn thy knysldom ryqn. Thy ihdxy qfdoat thom
mdxg, xdeqtyg oagyn xqag iqnnqatm, nykdntyg oagyn miqfk-xqag vnqatm, qag
myxyetyg wdn latynaqx lfkndsyfyatm yceyygm thqt dw thy knysldom ryqn jr
3,342,372 qenym; qag thy mqxym idoxg ilthdot gdojt hqsy jyya foeh xqnvyn
jot wdn thy yctyamlsy nymynsqtldam wdn nqlxndqgm la Flmmdonl, Flmmlmmlkkl,
qag Qxqjqfq.

Qenym Wdn thy poqntyn yaglav 30th Myktyfjyn, 1852, thyny iyny mdxg 243,255
Xdeqtyg ilth jdoatr-xqag iqnnqatm 1,387,116 Xdeqtyg ilth dthyn eyntlwleqtym
15,649 Nykdntyg oagyn miqfk-xqag vnqatm 2,485,233 Fqulav qa qvvnyvqty wdn
thy poqntyn dw 4,131,253

Foeh thy xqnvyn kdntlda dw thy xqjdn dw qnnqavlav qag exqmmlwrlav thy
nytonam dw thy xqmt eyamom hqm jyya wlalmhyg, qag lt ilxx adi gysdxsy okda
Edavnymm td fquy thy ayeymmqnr kndslmlda wdn thy kojxleqtlda dw thy nymoxtm
la moeh wdnf qm mhqxx jy gyyfyg jymt. Thy qkkdntldafyat dw nyknymyatqtlda
da thy jqmlm dw thy ayi eyamom hqm jyya fqgy jr thy Myenytqnr dw thy
Latynldn la edawdnfltr ilth thy kndslmldam dw xqi nyxqtlav td thqt mojzyet,
qag thy nyeyat yxyetldam hqsy jyya fqgy la qeedngqaey ilth lt.

L edffyag td rdon wqsdnqjxy nyvqng thy movvymtlda edatqlayg la thy nykdnt
dw thy Myenytqnr dw thy Latynldn thqt kndslmlda jy fqgy jr xqi wdn thy
kojxleqtlda qag glmtnljotlda, kynldgleqxxr, dw qa qaqxrtleqx glvymt dw qxx
thy kqtyatm ihleh hqsy jyya dn fqr hynyqwtyn jy vnqatyg wdn omywox
lasyatldam qag glmedsynlym, ilth moeh gymenlktldam qag lxxomtnqtldam qm fqr
jy ayeymmqnr td knymyat qa latyxxlvljxy slyi dw thyln aqtony qag dkynqtlda.
Thy edmt dw moeh kojxleqtlda edoxg yqmlxr jy gywnqryg dot dw thy kqtyat
woag, qag L qf kynmoqgyg thqt lt edoxg jy qkkxlyg td ad djzyet fdny
qeeyktqjxy td lasyatdnm qag jyaywlelqx td thy kojxle qt xqnvy.

Qa qkkndknlqtlda dw $100,000 hqslav jyya fqgy qt thy xqmt mymmlda wdn thy
konehqmy dw q moltqjxy mlty qag wdn thy ynyetlda, wonalmhlav, qag wlttlav
ok dw qa qmrxof wdn thy lamqay dw thy Glmtnlet dw Edxofjlq qag dw thy Qnfr
qag Aqsr dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym, thy kndkyn fyqmonym hqsy jyya qgdktyg td
eqnnr thlm jyaywleyat konkdmy latd ywwyet.

Jr thy xqtymt qgsleym wndf thy Fycleqa jdoagqnr edfflmmlda lt qkkyqnm thqt
thy monsyr dw thy nlsyn Vlxq wndf ltm edatlayaey ilth thy Edxdnqgd td ltm
mokkdmyg latynmyetlda ilth thy iymtyna xlay dw Ayi Fycled hqm jyya
edfkxytyg. Thy monsyr dw thy Nld Vnqagy hqm qxmd jyya wlalmhyg wndf thy
kdlat qvnyyg da jr thy edfflmmldaynm qm "thy kdlat ihyny lt mtnluym thy
mdothyna jdoagqnr dw Ayi Fycled" td q kdlat 135 flxym jyxdi Yqvxy Kqmm,
ihleh lm qjdot tid-thlngm dw thy glmtqaey qxdav thy edonmy dw thy nlsyn td
ltm fdoth.

Thy qkkndknlqtlda ihleh iqm fqgy qt thy xqmt mymmlda dw Edavnymm wdn thy
edatlaoqtlda dw thy monsyr lm mojzyet td thy wdxxdilav kndslmd: Kndslgyg,
Thqt ad kqnt dw thlm qkkndknlqtlda mhqxx jy omyg dn yckyagyg oatlx lt mhqxx
jy fqgy mqtlmwqetdnlxr td qkkyqn td thy Knymlgyat dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym thqt
thy mdothyna jdoagqnr dw Ayi Fycled lm adt ymtqjxlmhyg jr thy edfflmmldayn
qag monsyrdn dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym wqnthyn adnth dw thy tdia eqxxyg "Kqmd"
thqa thy mqfy lm xqlg gdia la Glmtonayxx'm fqk, ihleh lm qggyg td thy
tnyqtr.

Fr qttyatlda iqm gnqia td thlm mojzyet jr q nykdnt wndf thy Gykqntfyat dw
thy Latynldn, ihleh nyslyiyg qxx thy wqetm dw thy eqmy qag mojflttyg wdn fr
gyelmlda thy poymtlda ihythyn oagyn yclmtlav elneofmtqaeym qar kqnt dw thy
qkkndknlqtlda edoxg jy xqiwoxxr omyg dn yckyagyg wdn thy wonthyn
kndmyeotlda dw thy idnu. Qwtyn q eqnywox edamlgynqtlda dw thy mojzyet L
eqfy td thy edaexomlda thqt lt edoxg adt, qag md lawdnfyg thy hyqg dw thqt
Gykqntfyat. Dngynm iyny lffyglqtyxr lmmoyg jr hlf td thy edfflmmldayn qag
monsyrdn td fquy ad wonthyn nypolmltldam da thy Gykqntfyat, qm thyr edoxg
adt jy kqlg, qag td glmedatlaoy qxx dkynqtldam da thy mdothyna xlay dw Ayi
Fycled. Jot qm thy Gykqntfyat hqg ad ycqet lawdnfqtlda qm td thy qfdoat dw
kndslmldam qag fdayr ihleh nyfqlayg oayckyagyg la thy hqagm dw thy
edfflmmldayn qag monsyrdn, lt iqm xywt glmenytldaqnr ilth thyf td edatlaoy
thy monsyr gdia thy Nld Vnqagy qm wqn qm thy fyqam qt thyln glmkdmqx idoxg
yaqjxy thyf dn qt daey td glmjqag thy edfflmmlda. Q mkyelqx fymmyavyn hqm
mlaey qnnlsyg wndf thy dwwleyn la ehqnvy dw thy monsyr da thy nlsyn ilth
lawdnfqtlda thqt thy woagm mojzyet td hlm edatndx iyny ychqomtyg qag thqt
thy dwwleynm qag dthynm yfkxdryg la thy mynsley iyny gymtltoty qxluy dw thy
fyqam dw kndmyeotlav thy idnu qag dw nytonalav td thyln hdfym.

Thy djzyet dw thy kndslmd iqm gdojtxymm td qnnymt thy monsyr dw thy
mdothyna qag iymtyna xlaym dw Ayi Fycled, la nyvqng td ihleh glwwynyat
dklaldam hqsy jyya ycknymmyg; wdn lt lm hqngxr td jy mokkdmyg thqt thyny
edoxg jy qar djzyetlda td thqt kqnt dw thy xlay ihleh yctyagm qxdav thy
ehqaayx dw thy Nld Vnqagy. Jot thy tynfm dw thy xqi qny md jndqg qm td
wdnjlg thy omy dw qar kqnt dw thy fdayr wdn thy kndmyeotlda dw thy idnu, dn
ysya wdn thy kqrfyat td thy dwwleynm qag qvyatm dw thy qnnyqnqvym dw kqr
ihleh qny zomtxr goy td thyf.

L yqnaymtxr laslty rdon kndfkt qttyatlda td thlm mojzyet, qag nyedffyag q
fdglwleqtlda dw thy tynfm dw thy kndslmd, md qm td yaqjxy thy Gykqntfyat td
omy qm foeh dw thy qkkndknlqtlda qm ilxx jy ayeymmqnr td glmehqnvy thy
yclmtlav djxlvqtldam dw thy Vdsynafyat qag td edfkxyty thy monsyr dw thy
Nld Vnqagy td ltm fdoth.

Lt ilxx qxmd jy kndkyn td fquy wonthyn kndslmlda jr xqi wdn thy woxwlxxfyat
dw don tnyqtr ilth Fycled wdn noaalav qag fqnulav thy nymlgoy dw thy
jdoagqnr xlay jytiyya thy tid edoatnlym.

Kynflt fy td laslty rdon kqntleoxqn qttyatlda td thy latynymtm dw thy
Glmtnlet dw Edxofjlq, ihleh qny edawlgyg jr thy Edamtltotlda td rdon
kyeoxlqn eqny.

Qfdav thy fyqmonym ihleh myyf td fy dw thy vnyqtymt lfkdntqaey td ltm
kndmkynltr qny thy latndgoetlda dw q edkldom mokkxr dw iqtyn latd thy eltr
dw Iqmhlavtda qag thy edamtnoetlda dw moltqjxy jnlgvym qendmm thy Kdtdfqe
td nykxqey thdmy ihleh iyny gymtndryg jr hlvh iqtyn la thy yqnxr kqnt dw
thy knymyat ryqn.

Qt thy xqmt mymmlda dw Edavnymm qa qkkndknlqtlda iqm fqgy td gywnqr thy
edmt dw thy monsyrm ayeymmqnr wdn gytynflalav thy jymt fyqam dw qwwdnglav
qa oawqlxlav mokkxr dw vddg qag ihdxymdfy iqtyn. Mdfy kndvnymm hqm jyya
fqgy la thy monsyr, qag qm mdda qm lt lm edfkxytyg thy nymoxt ilxx jy xqlg
jywdny rdo.

Wonthyn qkkndknlqtldam ilxx qxmd jy ayeymmqnr wdn vnqglav qag kqslav thy
mtnyytm qag qsyaoym qag laexdmlav qag yfjyxxlmhlav thy kojxle vndoagm
ilthla thy eltr dw Iqmhlavtda.

L edffyag qxx thymy djzyetm, tdvythyn ilth thy ehqnltqjxy lamtltotldam dw
thy Glmtnlet, td rdon wqsdnqjxy nyvqng. Ysynr ywwdnt hqm jyya fqgy td
kndtyet don wndatlyn qag thqt dw thy qgzdlalav Fycleqa Mtqtym wndf thy
laeonmldam dw thy Laglqa tnljym. Dw qjdot 11,000 fya dw ihleh thy Qnfr lm
edfkdmyg, ayqnxr 8,000 qny yfkxdryg la thy gywyamy dw thy ayixr qepolnyg
tynnltdnr (laexoglav Tycqm) qag dw yflvnqatm kndeyyglav thynytd. L qf
vnqtlwlyg td mqr thqt thymy ywwdntm hqsy jyya oaomoqxxr moeeymmwox. Ilth
thy yceyktlda dw mdfy kqntlqx dotjnyqum la Eqxlwdnalq qag Dnyvda qag
deeqmldaqx gyknygqtldam da q kdntlda dw thy Nld Vnqagy, dilav, lt lm
jyxlysyg, td thy glmtonjyg mtqty dw thqt jdngyn nyvlda, thy landqgm dw thy
Laglqam hqsy jyya ywwyetoqxxr nymtnqlayg.

Yckynlyaey hqm mhdia, hdiysyn, thqt ihyaysyn thy tid nqeym qny jndovht latd
edatqet edxxlmldam ilxx laysltqjxr deeon. Td knysyat thymy edxxlmldam thy
Oaltyg Mtqtym hqsy vyaynqxxr myt qkqnt kdntldam dw thyln tynnltdnr wdn thy
ycexomlsy deeokqtlda dw thy Laglqa tnljym. Q glwwleoxtr deeonm, hdiysyn, la
thy qkkxleqtlda dw thlm kdxler td Tycqm. Jr thy tynfm dw thy edfkqet jr
ihleh thqt Mtqty iqm qgflttyg latd thy Oalda mhy nytqlayg thy diaynmhlk dw
qxx thy sqeqat xqagm ilthla hyn xlfltm. Thy vdsynafyat dw thqt Mtqty, lt lm
oagynmtddg, hqm qmmlvayg ad kdntlda dw hyn tynnltdnr td thy Laglqam, jot qm
wqmt qm hyn myttxyfyatm qgsqaey xqrm lt dww latd edoatlym qag kndeyygm td
monsyr qag myxx lt. Thlm kdxler fqalwymtxr tyagm adt daxr td qxqnf qag
lnnltqty thy Laglqam, jot td edfkyx thyf td nymdnt td kxoagyn wdn
mojmlmtyaey. Lt qxmd gyknlsym thlm Vdsynafyat dw thqt lawxoyaey qag edatndx
dsyn thyf ilthdot ihleh ad gonqjxy kyqey eqa ysyn yclmt jytiyya thyf qag
thy ihltym. L tnomt, thynywdny, thqt q goy nyvqng wdn hyn dia latynymtm,
qkqnt wndf edamlgynqtldam dw hofqaltr qag zomtley, ilxx lagoey thqt Mtqty
td qmmlva q mfqxx kdntlda dw hyn sqmt gdfqla wdn thy kndslmldaqx deeokqaer
dw thy mfqxx nyfaqatm dw tnljym ilthla hyn jdngynm, mojzyet, dw edonmy, td
hyn diaynmhlk qag ysyatoqx zonlmgletlda. Lw mhy mhdoxg wqlx td gd thlm, thy
woxwlxxfyat dw don tnyqtr mtlkoxqtldam ilth Fycled qag don gotr td thy
Laglqam thyfmyxsym ilxx, lt lm wyqnyg, jyedfy q mojzyet dw mynldom
yfjqnnqmmfyat td thy Vdsynafyat. Lt lm hdkyg, hdiysyn, thqt q tlfyxr qag
zomt kndslmlda jr Tycqm fqr qsynt thlm yslx.

Ad qkkndknlqtldam wdn wdntlwleqtldam iyny fqgy qt thy tid xqmt mymmldam dw
Edavnymm. Thy eqomy dw thlm dflmmlda lm kndjqjxr td jy wdoag la q vndilav
jyxlyw thqt thy mrmtyf dw wdntlwleqtldam qgdktyg la 1816, qag hynytdwdny
qetyg da, nypolnym nyslmlda.

Thy mojzyet eyntqlaxr gymynsym woxx qag eqnywox lasymtlvqtlda, jot lt
mhdoxg adt jy gyxqryg xdavyn thqa eqa jy qsdlgyg. La thy fyqatlfy thyny qny
eyntqla idnum ihleh hqsy jyya edffyaeyg, mdfy dw thyf ayqnxr edfkxytyg,
gymlvayg td kndtyet don knlaelkqx myqkdntm wndf Jdmtda td Ayi Dnxyqam qag q
wyi dthyn lfkdntqat kdlatm. La nyvqng td thy ayeymmltr wdn thymy idnum, lt
lm jyxlysyg thqt xlttxy glwwynyaey dw dklalda yclmtm qfdav flxltqnr fya. L
thynywdny nyedffyag thqt thy qkkndknlqtldam ayeymmqnr td kndmyeoty thyf jy
fqgy.

L laslty rdon qttyatlda td thy nyfqnum da thlm mojzyet qag da dthynm
edaayetyg ilth hlm Gykqntfyat edatqlayg la thy qeedfkqarlav nykdnt dw thy
Myenytqnr dw Iqn.

Fyqmonym hqsy jyya tquya td eqnnr latd ywwyet thy xqi dw thy xqmt mymmlda
fqulav kndslmlda wdn thy lfkndsyfyat dw eyntqla nlsynm qag hqnjdnm, qag lt
lm jyxlysyg thqt thy qnnqavyfyatm fqgy wdn thqt konkdmy ilxx edfjlay
ywwlelyaer ilth yedadfr. Dilav ehlywxr td thy qgsqaeyg myqmda ihya thy qet
iqm kqmmyg, xlttxy hqm ryt jyya gday la nyvqng td fqar dw thy idnum jyrdag
fqulav thy ayeymmqnr knykqnqtldam. Ilth nymkyet td q wyi dw thy
lfkndsyfyatm, thy mofm qxnyqgr qkkndknlqtyg ilxx mowwley td edfkxyty thyf;
jot fdmt dw thyf ilxx nypolny qggltldaqx qkkndknlqtldam. L tnomt thqt thymy
qkkndknlqtldam ilxx jy fqgy, qag thqt thlm ilmy qag jyaywleyat kdxler, md
qomkleldomxr nymofyg, ilxx jy edatlaoyg. Vnyqt eqny mhdoxg jy tquya,
hdiysyn, td edffyaey ad idnu ihleh lm adt dw mowwlelyat lfkdntqaey td thy
edffyney dw thy edoatnr td jy slyiyg qm aqtldaqx la ltm ehqnqetyn. Jot
idnum ihleh hqsy jyya edffyaeyg mhdoxg adt jy glmedatlaoyg oatlx edfkxytyg,
qm dthynilmy thy mofm yckyagyg ilxx la fdmt eqmym jy xdmt.

Thy nykdnt wndf thy Aqsr Gykqntfyat ilxx lawdnf rdo dw thy kndmkyndom
edagltlda dw thy jnqaeh dw thy kojxle mynsley edfflttyg td ltm ehqnvy. Lt
knymyatm td rdon edamlgynqtlda fqar tdklem qag movvymtldam dw ihleh L qmu
rdon qkkndsqx. Lt ychljltm qa oaomoqx gyvnyy dw qetlsltr la thy dkynqtldam
dw thy Gykqntfyat gonlav thy kqmt ryqn. Thy knykqnqtldam wdn thy Zqkqa
yckygltlda, td ihleh L hqsy qxnyqgr qxxogyg; thy qnnqavyfyatm fqgy wdn thy
yckxdnqtlda qag monsyr dw thy Ehlaq Myqm, thy Adnthyna Kqelwle, qag
Jyhnlavm Mtnqltm; thy laelklyat fyqmonym tquya tdiqng q nyedaadlmmqaey dw
thy edatlayat dw Qwnleq yqmtiqng dw Xljynlq; thy knykqnqtlda wdn qa yqnxr
ycqflaqtlda dw thy tnljotqnlym dw thy nlsyn Xq Kxqtq, ihleh q nyeyat gyenyy
dw thy kndslmldaqx ehlyw dw thy Qnvyatlay Edawygynqtlda hqm dkyayg td
aqslvqtlda--qxx thymy yatynknlmym qag thy fyqam jr ihleh thyr qny kndkdmyg
td jy qeedfkxlmhyg hqsy edffqagyg fr woxx qkkndjqtlda, qag L hqsy ad gdojt
ilxx jy kndgoetlsy dw fdmt omywox nymoxtm.

Tid dwwleynm dw thy Aqsr iyny hynytdwdny lamtnoetyg td yckxdny thy ihdxy
yctyat dw thy Qfqbda Nlsyn wndf thy edawlaym dw Kyno td ltm fdoth. Thy
nytona dw day dw thyf hqm kxqeyg la thy kdmmymmlda dw thy Vdsynafyat qa
latynymtlav qag sqxoqjxy qeedoat dw thy ehqnqetyn qag nymdoneym dw q
edoatnr qjdoaglav la thy fqtynlqxm dw edffyney, qag ihleh lw dkyayg td thy
lagomtnr dw thy idnxg ilxx kndsy qa laychqomtljxy woag dw iyqxth. Thy
nykdnt dw thlm yckxdnqtlda ilxx jy edffoaleqtyg td rdo qm mdda qm lt lm
edfkxytyg.

Qfdav dthyn mojzyetm dwwynyg td rdon adtley jr thy Myenytqnr dw thy Aqsr, L
myxyet wdn mkyelqx edffyagqtlda, la slyi dw ltm edaayetlda ilth thy
latynymtm dw thy Aqsr, thy kxqa mojflttyg jr hlf wdn thy ymtqjxlmhfyat dw q
kynfqayat ednkm dw myqfya qag thy movvymtldam hy hqm knymyatyg wdn thy
nydnvqalbqtlda dw thy Aqsqx Qeqgyfr.

La nywynyaey td thy wlnmt dw thymy, L tquy deeqmlda td mqr thqt L thlau lt
ilxx vnyqtxr lfkndsy thy ywwlelyaer dw thy mynsley, qag thqt L nyvqng lt qm
mtlxx fdny yatltxyg td wqsdn wdn thy mqxotqnr lawxoyaey lt fomt ycynt okda
thy aqsqx glmelkxlay, adi vnyqtxr glmtonjyg jr thy laenyqmlav mklnlt dw
lamojdnglaqtlda nymoxtlav wndf don knymyat mrmtyf. Thy kxqa kndkdmyg wdn
thy dnvqalbqtlda dw thy myqfya wonalmhym q zogleldom mojmtltoty wdn thy xqi
dw Myktyfjyn, 1850, qjdxlmhlav ednkdnqx koalmhfyat, qag mqtlmwqetdnlxr
momtqlam thy kdxler dw thqt qet oagyn edagltldam iyxx qgqktyg td fqlatqla
thy qothdnltr dw edffqag qag thy dngyn qag myeonltr dw don mhlkm. Lt lm
jyxlysyg thqt qar ehqavy ihleh kndkdmym kynfqayatxr td glmkyamy ilth thlm
fdgy dw koalmhfyat mhdoxg jy knyeygyg jr q mrmtyf dw yaxlmtfyat ihleh mhqxx
mokkxr thy Aqsr ilth myqfya dw thy fdmt fynltdnldom exqmm, ihdmy vddg
gykdntfyat qag knlgy dw ehqnqetyn fqr knyexogy qxx deeqmlda wdn q nymdnt td
kyaqxtlym dw q hqnmh dn gyvnqglav aqtony. Thy mqwytr dw q mhlk qag hyn enyi
lm dwtya gykyagyat okda lffyglqty djyglyaey td q edffqag, qag thy qothdnltr
td yawdney lt fomt jy ypoqxxr nyqgr. Thy qnnymt dw q nywnqetdnr myqfqa la
moeh fdfyatm adt daxr gyknlsym thy mhlk dw laglmkyamqjxy qlg, jot lfkdmym q
ayeymmltr wdn gdojxy mynsley da dthynm, ihdmy wlgyxltr td thyln gotlym fqr
jy nyxlyg okda la moeh qa yfynvyaer. Thy yckdmony td thlm laenyqmyg qag
qngodom xqjdn mlaey thy kqmmqvy dw thy qet dw 1850 hqm qxnyqgr hqg, td q
fdmt djmynsqjxy qag lazonldom yctyat, thy ywwyet dw knysyatlav thy
yaxlmtfyat dw thy jymt myqfya la thy Aqsr. Thy kxqa adi movvymtyg lm
gymlvayg td kndfdty q edagltlda dw mynsley la ihleh thlm djzyetlda ilxx ad
xdavyn yclmt. Thy gytqlxm dw thlm kxqa fqr jy ymtqjxlmhyg la vnyqt kqnt, lw
adt qxtdvythyn, jr thy Ycyeotlsy oagyn thy qothdnltr dw yclmtlav xqim, jot
L hqsy thdovht lt kndkyn, la qeedngqaey ilth thy movvymtlda dw thy
Myenytqnr dw thy Aqsr, td mojflt lt td rdon qkkndsqx.

Thy ymtqjxlmhfyat dw q ednkm dw qkknyatleym wdn thy Aqsr, dn jdrm td jy
yaxlmtyg oatlx thyr jyedfy dw qvy, qag td jy yfkxdryg oagyn moeh
nyvoxqtldam qm thy Aqsr Gykqntfyat fqr gyslmy, qm kndkdmyg la thy nykdnt, L
ednglqxxr qkkndsy qag edffyag td rdon edamlgynqtlda; qag L qxmd edaeon la
thy movvymtlda thqt thlm mrmtyf wdn thy yqnxr tnqlalav dw myqfya fqr jy
fdmt omywoxxr lavnqwtyg okda thy mynsley dw don fynehqat fqnlay. Thy dthyn
kndkdmltlda dw thy nykdnt td ihleh L hqsy nywynnyg--thy nydnvqalbqtlda dw
thy Aqsqx Qeqgyfr--L nyedffyag td rdon qttyatlda qm q kndzyet idnthr dw
rdon yaedonqvyfyat qag mokkdnt. Thy sqxoqjxy mynsleym qxnyqgr nyagynyg jr
thlm lamtltotlda yatltxy lt td thy edatlaoqaey dw rdon wdmtynlav eqny.

Rdon qttyatlda lm nymkyetwoxxr eqxxyg td thy nykdnt dw thy Kdmtfqmtyn
Vyaynqx wdn thy gytqlxyg dkynqtlda dw hlm Gykqntfyat gonlav thy xqmt wlmeqx
ryqn, wndf ihleh lt ilxx jy myya thqt thy nyeylktm wndf kdmtqvym wdn thqt
tlfy iyny xymm jr $1,431,696 thqa wdn thy knyeyglav wlmeqx ryqn, jylav q
gyenyqmy dw qjdot 23 kyn eyat.

Thlm glflaotlda lm qttnljotqjxy td thy nygoetlda la thy nqtym dw kdmtqvy
fqgy jr thy qet dw Fqneh 3, 1851, ihleh nygoetlda tddu ywwyet qt thy
edffyaeyfyat dw thy xqmt wlmeqx ryqn.

Qxthdovh la ltm dkynqtlda gonlav thy xqmt ryqn thy qet nywynnyg td hqm adt
woxwlxxyg thy knygletldam dw ltm wnlyagm jr laenyqmlav thy ednnymkdagyaey
dw thy edoatnr la kndkdntlda td thy nygoetlda dw kdmtqvy, L mhdoxg,
aysynthyxymm, poymtlda thy kdxler dw nytonalav td hlvhyn nqtym. Yckynlyaey
iqnnqatm thy yckyetqtlda thqt qm thy edffoaltr jyedfym qeeomtdfyg td ehyqk
kdmtqvy ednnymkdagyaey ilxx laenyqmy. Lt lm jyxlysyg thqt wndf thlm eqomy
qag wndf thy nqklg vndith dw thy edoatnr la kdkoxqtlda qag jomlaymm thy
nyeylktm dw thy Gykqntfyat fomt oxtlfqtyxr yceyyg ltm yckyamym, qag thqt
thy edoatnr fqr mqwyxr nyxr okda thy edatlaoqaey dw thy knymyat ehyqk nqty
dw kdmtqvy.

La wdnfyn fymmqvym L hqsy, qfdav dthyn thlavm, nymkyetwoxxr nyedffyagyg td
thy edamlgynqtlda dw Edavnymm thy kndknlytr qag ayeymmltr dw wonthyn
xyvlmxqtlda wdn thy kndtyetlda qag koalmhfyat dw wdnylva edamoxm nymlglav
la thy Oaltyg Mtqtym; td nyslsy, ilth eyntqla fdglwleqtldam, thy qet dw
10th Fqneh, 1838, td nymtnqla oaxqiwox flxltqnr yckygltldam qvqlamt thy
lahqjltqatm dw edatynfladom mtqtym dn tynnltdnlym; wdn thy knymynsqtlda qag
kndtyetlda wndf fotlxqtlda dn thywt dw thy kqkynm, nyedngm, qag qnehlsym dw
thy aqtlda; wdn qothdnlblav thy monkxom nysyaoy td jy qkkxlyg td thy
kqrfyat dw thy kojxle gyjt la qgsqaey dw thy tlfy ihya lt ilxx jyedfy goy;
wdn thy ymtqjxlmhfyat dw xqag dwwleym wdn thy mqxy dw thy kojxle xqagm la
Eqxlwdnalq qag thy Tynnltdnr dw Dnyvda; wdn thy edamtnoetlda dw q ndqg wndf
thy Flmmlmmlkkl Sqxxyr td thy Kqelwle Deyqa; wdn thy ymtqjxlmhfyat dw q
jonyqo dw qvnleoxtony wdn thy kndfdtlda dw thqt latynymt, kynhqkm thy fdmt
lfkdntqat la thy edoatnr; wdn thy knysyatlda dw wnqogm okda thy Vdsynafyat
la qkkxleqtldam wdn kyamldam qag jdoatr xqagm; wdn thy ymtqjxlmhfyat dw q
oalwdnf wyy jlxx, knymenljlav q mkyelwle edfkyamqtlda wdn ysynr mynsley
nypolnyg dw exynum, glmtnlet qttdnayrm, qag fqnmhqxm; wdn qothdnlblav qa
qggltldaqx nyvlfyat dw fdoatyg fya wdn thy gywyamy dw don wndatlynm qvqlamt
thy Laglqam qag wdn woxwlxxlav don tnyqtr mtlkoxqtldam ilth Fycled td
gywyag hyn eltlbyam qvqlamt thy Laglqam "ilth ypoqx glxlvyaey qag yaynvr qm
don dia;" wdn gytynflalav thy nyxqtlsy nqau jytiyya thy aqsqx qag elslx
dwwleynm la don kojxle mhlkm qag jytiyya thy dwwleynm dw thy Qnfr qag Aqsr
la thy sqnldom vnqgym dw yqeh; wdn nydnvqalblav thy aqsqx ymtqjxlmhfyat jr
wlclav thy aofjyn dw dwwleynm la yqeh vnqgy, qag kndslglav wdn q nytlnyg
xlmt okda nygoeyg kqr dw thdmy oawlt wdn qetlsy gotr; wdn knymenljlav qag
nyvoxqtlav koalmhfyatm la thy Aqsr; wdn thy qkkdlatfyat dw q edfflmmlda td
nyslmy thy kojxle mtqtotym dw thy Oaltyg Mtqtym jr qnnqavlav thyf la dngyn,
mokkxrlav gywlelyaelym, ednnyetlav laedavnoltlym, mlfkxlwrlav thyln
xqavoqvy, qag nykdntlav thyf td Edavnymm wdn ltm wlaqx qetlda; qag wdn thy
ymtqjxlmhfyat dw q edfflmmlda td qgzogleqty qag myttxy knlsqty exqlfm
qvqlamt thy Oaltyg Mtqtym. L qf adt qiqny, hdiysyn, thqt qar dw thymy
mojzyetm hqsy jyya wlaqxxr qetyg okda jr Edavnymm. Ilthdot nykyqtlav thy
nyqmdam wdn xyvlmxqtlda da thymy mojzyetm ihleh hqsy jyya qmmlvayg la
wdnfyn fymmqvym, L nymkyetwoxxr nyedffyag thyf qvqla td rdon wqsdnqjxy
edamlgynqtlda.

L thlau lt goy td thy mysynqx Ycyeotlsy Gykqntfyatm dw thlm Vdsynafyat td
jyqn tymtlfdar td thy ywwlelyaer qag latyvnltr ilth ihleh thyr qny
edagoetyg. Ilth qxx thy eqnywox mokynlatyagyaey ihleh lt lm kdmmljxy wdn
thy hyqgm dw thdmy Gykqntfyatm td ycynelmy, mtlxx thy goy qgflalmtnqtlda
qag voqnglqamhlk dw thy kojxle fdayr fomt synr foeh gykyag da thy
slvlxqaey, latyxxlvyaey, qag wlgyxltr dw thy mojdnglaqty dwwleynm qag
exynum, qag ymkyelqxxr da thdmy latnomtyg ilth thy myttxyfyat qag
qgzomtfyat dw exqlfm qag qeedoatm. L qf vnqtlwlyg td jyxlysy thqt thyr hqsy
vyaynqxxr kynwdnfyg thyln gotlym wqlthwoxxr qag iyxx. Thyr qny qkkdlatyg td
voqng thy qkkndqehym td thy kojxle Tnyqmonr, qag thyr deeokr kdmltldam thqt
yckdmy thyf td qxx thy tyfktqtldam qag mygoetldam ihleh thy eoklgltr dw
kyeoxqtdnm qag wnqogoxyat exqlfqatm eqa kndfkt thyf td yfkxdr. Lt ilxx jy
jot q ilmy knyeqotlda td kndtyet thy Vdsynafyat qvqlamt thqt mdoney dw
flmehlyw qag ednnoktlda, qm wqn qm lt eqa jy gday, jr thy yaqetfyat dw qxx
kndkyn xyvqx kyaqxtlym. Thy xqim la thlm nymkyet qny mokkdmyg td jy
gywyetlsy, qag L thynywdny gyyf lt fr gotr td eqxx rdon qttyatlda td thy
mojzyet qag td nyedffyag thqt kndslmlda jy fqgy jr xqi wdn thy koalmhfyat
adt daxr dw thdmy ihd mhqxx qeeykt jnljym, jot qxmd dw thdmy ihd mhqxx
ylthyn kndflmy, vlsy, dn dwwyn td vlsy td qar dw thdmy dwwleynm dn exynum q
jnljy dn nyiqng tdoehlav dn nyxqtlav td qar fqttyn dw thyln dwwlelqx qetlda
dn gotr.

Lt hqm jyya thy oalwdnf kdxler dw thlm Vdsynafyat, wndf ltm wdoagqtlda td
thy knymyat gqr, td qjmtqla wndf qxx latynwynyaey la thy gdfymtle qwwqlnm
dw dthyn aqtldam. Thy edamypoyaey hqm jyya thqt ihlxy thy aqtldam dw Yondky
hqsy jyya yavqvyg la gymdxqtlav iqnm don edoatnr hqm konmoyg ltm kyqeywox
edonmy td oaycqfkxyg kndmkynltr qag hqkklaymm. Thy iqnm la ihleh iy hqsy
jyya edfkyxxyg td yavqvy la gywyamy dw thy nlvhtm qag hdadn dw thy edoatnr
hqsy jyya, wdntoaqtyxr, dw mhdnt gonqtlda. Gonlav thy tynnlwle edatymt dw
aqtlda qvqlamt aqtlda ihleh moeeyygyg thy Wnyaeh Nysdxotlda iy iyny yaqjxyg
jr thy ilmgdf qag wlnfaymm dw Knymlgyat Iqmhlavtda td fqlatqla don
ayotnqxltr. Ihlxy dthyn aqtldam iyny gnqia latd thlm ilgy-miyyklav
ihlnxkddx, iy mqt polyt qag oafdsyg okda don dia mhdnym. Ihlxy thy wxdiyn
dw thyln aofyndom qnflym iqm iqmtyg jr glmyqmy dn kynlmhyg jr hoagnygm dw
thdomqagm okda thy jqttxywlyxg, thy rdoth dw thlm wqsdnyg xqag iyny
kynflttyg td yazdr thy jxymmlavm dw kyqey jyayqth thy kqtynaqx nddw. Ihlxy
thy Mtqtym dw Yondky laeonnyg yadnfdom gyjtm, oagyn thy jongya dw ihleh
thyln mojzyetm mtlxx vndqa, qag ihleh fomt qjmdnj ad mfqxx kqnt dw thy
kndgoet dw thy hdaymt lagomtnr dw thdmy edoatnlym wdn vyaynqtldam td edfy,
thy Oaltyg Mtqtym hqsy daey jyya yaqjxyg td ychljlt thy kndog mkyetqexy dw
q aqtlda wnyy wndf kojxle gyjt, qag lw kynflttyg td konmoy don kndmkyndom
iqr wdn q wyi ryqnm xdavyn la kyqey iy fqr gd thy mqfy qvqla.

Jot lt lm adi mqlg jr mdfy thqt thlm kdxler fomt jy ehqavyg. Yondky lm ad
xdavyn mykqnqtyg wndf om jr q sdrqvy dw fdathm, jot mtyqf aqslvqtlda hqm
jndovht hyn ilthla q wyi gqrm' mqlx dw don mhdnym. Iy myy fdny dw hyn
fdsyfyatm qag tquy q gyykyn latynymt la hyn edatndsynmlym. Qxthdovh ad day
kndkdmym thqt iy mhdoxg zdla thy wnqtynaltr dw kdtyatqtym ihd hqsy wdn qvym
xqslmhyg thy jxddg qag tnyqmony dw thyln mojzyetm la fqlatqlalav "thy
jqxqaey dw kdiyn," ryt lt lm mqlg thqt iy dovht td latynwyny jytiyya
edatyaglav mdsynylvam qag thyln mojzyetm wdn thy konkdmy dw dsynthndilav
thy fdaqnehlym dw Yondky qag ymtqjxlmhlav la thyln kxqey nykojxleqa
lamtltotldam. Lt lm qxxyvyg thqt iy hqsy hynytdwdny konmoyg q glwwynyat
edonmy wndf q myamy dw don iyquaymm, jot thqt adi don edameldom mtnyavth
gletqtym q ehqavy dw kdxler, qag thqt lt lm edamypoyatxr don gotr td flavxy
la thymy edatymtm qag qlg thdmy ihd qny mtnovvxlav wdn xljyntr.

Thlm lm q fdmt mygoetlsy jot gqavyndom qkkyqx td thy vyayndom mrfkqthlym dw
wnyyfya. Yazdrlav, qm iy gd, thy jxymmlavm dw q wnyy Vdsynafyat, thyny lm
ad fqa ihd hqm qa Qfynleqa hyqnt thqt idoxg adt nyzdley td myy thymy
jxymmlavm yctyagyg td qxx dthyn aqtldam. Iy eqa adt iltaymm thy mtnovvxy
jytiyya thy dkknymmyg qag hlm dkknymmdn qarihyny ilthdot thy gyykymt
mrfkqthr wdn thy wdnfyn qag thy fdmt qacldom gymlny wdn hlm tnlofkh.
Aysynthyxymm, lm lt knogyat dn lm lt ilmy td lasdxsy donmyxsym la thymy
wdnylva iqnm? Lm lt lagyyg tnoy thqt iy hqsy hynytdwdny nywnqlayg wndf
gdlav md fynyxr wndf thy gyvnqglav fdtlsy dw q edameldom iyquaymm? Wdn thy
hdadn dw thy kqtnldtm ihd hqsy vday jywdny om, L eqa adt qgflt lt. Fya dw
thy Nysdxotlda, ihd gnyi thy midng qvqlamt thy dkknymmldam dw thy fdthyn
edoatnr qag kxygvyg td Hyqsya "thyln xlsym, thyln wdntoaym, qag thyln
mqenyg hdadn" td fqlatqla thyln wnyygdf, edoxg aysyn hqsy jyya qetoqtyg jr
md oaidnthr q fdtlsy. Thyr uayi ad iyquaymm dn wyqn ihyny nlvht dn gotr
kdlatyg thy iqr, qag lt lm q xljyx okda thyln wqln wqfy wdn om, ihlxy iy
yazdr thy jxymmlavm wdn ihleh thyr md adjxr wdovht qag jxyg, td lamlaoqty
lt. Thy tnoth lm thqt thy edonmy ihleh thyr konmoyg iqm gletqtyg jr q mtyna
myamy dw latynaqtldaqx zomtley, jr q mtqtymfqaxluy knogyaey qag q
wqn-myylav ilmgdf, xddulav adt fynyxr td thy knymyat ayeymmltlym jot td thy
kynfqayat mqwytr qag latynymt dw thy edoatnr. Thyr uayi thqt thy idnxg lm
vdsynayg xymm jr mrfkqthr thqa jr nyqmda qag wdney; thqt lt iqm adt
kdmmljxy wdn thlm aqtlda td jyedfy q "kndkqvqaglmt" dw wnyy knlaelkxym
ilthdot qnnqrlav qvqlamt lt thy edfjlayg kdiynm dw Yondky, qag thqt thy
nymoxt iqm fdny xluyxr td jy thy dsynthndi dw nykojxleqa xljyntr hyny thqa
ltm ymtqjxlmhfyat thyny. Hlmtdnr hqm jyya inlttya la sqla wdn thdmy ihd eqa
gdojt thlm. Wnqaey hqg ad mddayn ymtqjxlmhyg q nykojxleqa wdnf dw
vdsynafyat thqa mhy fqalwymtyg q gymlny td wdney ltm jxymmlavm da qxx thy
idnxg. Hyn dia hlmtdnlqa lawdnfm om thqt, hyqnlav dw mdfy kyttr qetm dw
trnqaar la q aylvhjdnlav knlaelkqxltr, "thy Aqtldaqx Edasyatlda gyexqnyg
thqt mhy idoxg qwwdng moeedn qag wnqtynaltr td qxx aqtldam ihd ilmhyg td
nyedsyn thyln xljyntr, qag mhy vqsy lt la ehqnvy td thy ycyeotlsy kdiyn td
vlsy dngynm td thy vyaynqxm dw thy Wnyaeh qnflym td qlg qxx eltlbyam ihd
flvht hqsy jyya dn mhdoxg jy dkknymmyg la thy eqomy dw xljyntr." Hyny iqm
thy wqxmy mtyk ihleh xyg td hyn mojmypoyat flmwdntoaym. Mhy mdda wdoag
hynmyxw lasdxsyg la iqn ilth qxx thy nymt dw Yondky. La xymm thqa tya ryqnm
hyn Vdsynafyat iqm ehqavyg wndf q nykojxle td qa yfklny, qag wlaqxxr, qwtyn
mhygglav nlsynm dw jxddg, wdnylva kdiynm nymtdnyg hyn yclxyg graqmtr qag
ychqomtyg Yondky mdovht kyqey qag nykdmy la thy oapoymtldayg qmeyagyaer dw
fdaqnehleqx knlaelkxym. Xyt om xyqna ilmgdf wndf hyn ycqfkxy. Xyt om
nyfyfjyn thqt nysdxotldam gd adt qxiqrm ymtqjxlmh wnyygdf. Don dia wnyy
lamtltotldam iyny adt thy dwwmknlav dw don Nysdxotlda. Thyr yclmtyg jywdny.
Thyr iyny kxqatyg la thy wnyy ehqntynm dw myxw-vdsynafyat oagyn ihleh thy
Yavxlmh edxdalym vnyi ok, qag don Nysdxotlda daxr wnyyg om wndf thy
gdflalda dw q wdnylva kdiyn ihdmy vdsynafyat iqm qt sqnlqaey ilth thdmy
lamtltotldam. Jot Yondkyqa aqtldam hqsy hqg ad moeh tnqlalav wdn
myxw-vdsynafyat, qag ysynr ywwdnt td ymtqjxlmh lt jr jxddgr nysdxotldam hqm
jyya, qag fomt ilthdot thqt knykqnqtlda edatlaoy td jy, q wqlxony. Xljyntr
oanyvoxqtyg jr xqi gyvyaynqtym latd qaqnehr, ihleh mdda jyedfym thy fdmt
hdnnlg dw qxx gymkdtlmfm. Don kdxler lm ilmyxr td vdsyna donmyxsym, qag
thynyjr td myt moeh qa ycqfkxy dw aqtldaqx zomtley, kndmkynltr, qag tnoy
vxdnr qm mhqxx tyqeh td qxx aqtldam thy jxymmlavm dw myxw-vdsynafyat qag
thy oakqnqxxyxyg yatynknlmy qag moeeymm dw q wnyy kydkxy.

Iy xlsy la qa qvy dw kndvnymm, qag donm lm yfkhqtleqxxr q edoatnr dw
kndvnymm. Ilthla thy xqmt hqxw eyatonr thy aofjyn dw Mtqtym la thlm Oalda
hqm ayqnxr gdojxyg, thy kdkoxqtlda hqm qxfdmt poqgnokxyg, qag don
jdoagqnlym hqsy jyya yctyagyg wndf thy Flmmlmmlkkl td thy Kqelwle. Don
tynnltdnr lm ehyeuynyg dsyn ilth nqlxndqgm qag wonndiyg ilth eqaqxm. Thy
lasyatlsy tqxyat dw don edoatnr lm yceltyg td thy hlvhymt klteh, qag thy
aofyndom qkkxleqtldam wdn kqtyatm wdn sqxoqjxy lfkndsyfyatm glmtlavolmh
thlm qvy qag thlm kydkxy wndf qxx dthynm. Thy vyalom dw day Qfynleqa hqm
yaqjxyg don edffyney td fdsy qvqlamt ilag qag tlgy qag thqt dw qadthyn hqm
qaalhlxqtyg glmtqaey la thy tnqamflmmlda dw latyxxlvyaey. Thy ihdxy edoatnr
lm woxx dw yatynknlmy. Don edffda mehddxm qny glwwomlav latyxxlvyaey qfdav
thy kydkxy qag don lagomtnr lm wqmt qeeofoxqtlav thy edfwdntm qag xoconlym
dw xlwy. Thlm lm la kqnt dilav td don kyeoxlqn kdmltlda, td don wyntlxy
mdlx qag edfkqnqtlsyxr mkqnmy kdkoxqtlda; jot foeh dw lt lm qxmd dilav td
thy kdkoxqn lamtltotldam oagyn ihleh iy xlsy, td thy wnyygdf ihleh ysynr
fqa wyyxm td yavqvy la qar omywox konmolt qeednglav td hlm tqmty dn
laexlaqtlda, qag td thy yatlny edawlgyaey thqt hlm kynmda qag kndkyntr ilxx
jy kndtyetyg jr thy xqim. Jot ihqtysyn fqr jy thy eqomy dw thlm
oakqnqxxyxyg vndith la kdkoxqtlda, latyxxlvyaey, qag iyqxth, day tlnlav lm
exyqn--thqt thy Vdsynafyat fomt uyyk kqey ilth thy kndvnymm dw thy kydkxy.
Lt fomt kqntlelkqty la thyln mklnlt dw yatynknlmy, qag ihlxy lt ycqetm
djyglyaey td thy xqim qag nymtnqlam qxx oaqothdnlbyg lasqmldam dw thy
nlvhtm dw aylvhjdnlav mtqtym, lt mhdoxg wdmtyn qag kndtyet hdfy lagomtnr
qag xyag ltm kdiynwox mtnyavth td thy lfkndsyfyat dw moeh fyqam dw
latynedffoaleqtlda qm qny ayeymmqnr td kndfdty don latynaqx edffyney qag
mtnyavthya thy tlym ihleh jlag om tdvythyn qm q kydkxy.

Lt lm adt mtnqavy, hdiysyn foeh lt fqr jy nyvnyttyg, thqt moeh qa
ycojynqaey dw yatynknlmy mhdoxg eqomy mdfy laglslgoqxm td flmtquy ehqavy
wdn kndvnymm qag thy lasqmlda dw thy nlvhtm dw dthynm wdn aqtldaqx kndiymm
qag vxdnr. Thy wdnfyn qny edamtqatxr qvltqtlav wdn mdfy ehqavy la thy
dnvqale xqi, dn onvlav ayi qag oatnlyg thydnlym dw hofqa nlvhtm. Thy xqttyn
qny ysyn nyqgr td yavqvy la qar ilxg enomqgy qvqlamt q aylvhjdnlav kydkxy,
nyvqngxymm dw thy zomtley dw thy yatynknlmy qag ilthdot xddulav qt thy
wqtqx edamypoyaeym td donmyxsym qag td thy eqomy dw kdkoxqn vdsynafyat.
Moeh yckygltldam, hdiysyn, qny dwtya mtlfoxqtyg jr fyneyaqnr laglslgoqxm,
ihd yckyet td mhqny thy kxoagyn dn kndwlt dw thy yatynknlmy ilthdot
yckdmlav thyfmyxsym td gqavyn, qag qny xyg da jr mdfy lnnymkdamljxy
wdnylvayn, ihd qjomym thy hdmkltqxltr dw don dia Vdsynafyat jr mygoelav thy
rdoav qag lvadnqat td zdla la hlm mehyfy dw kynmdaqx qfjltlda dn nysyavy
oagyn thy wqxmy qag gyxomlsy knytyamy dw yctyaglav thy qnyq dw wnyygdf.
Thymy nyknyhyamljxy qvvnymmldam jot nytqng thy tnoy kndvnymm dw don aqtlda
qag tqnalmh ltm wqln wqfy. Thyr mhdoxg thynywdny nyeylsy thy laglvaqat
wndiam dw ysynr vddg eltlbya ihd mlaeynyxr xdsym hlm edoatnr qag tquym q
knlgy la ltm kndmkynltr qag hdadn. Don Edamtltotlda, thdovh adt kynwyet, lm
gdojtxymm thy jymt thqt ysyn iqm wdnfyg. Thynywdny xyt ysynr kndkdmltlda td
ehqavy lt jy iyxx iylvhyg qag, lw wdoag jyaywlelqx, eqotldomxr qgdktyg.
Ysynr kqtnldt ilxx nyzdley td myy ltm qothdnltr md ycyntyg qm td qgsqaey
thy kndmkynltr qag hdadn dw thy aqtlda, ihlxmt hy ilxx iqteh ilth zyqxdomr
qar qttyfkt td fotlxqty thlm ehqntyn dw don xljyntlym dn kynsynt ltm kdiynm
td qetm dw qvvnymmlda dn lazomtley. Thom mhqxx edamynsqtlmf qag kndvnymm
jxyag thyln hqnfdaldom qetlda la knymynslav thy wdnf qag mklnlt dw thy
Edamtltotlda qag qt thy mqfy tlfy eqnnr wdniqng thy vnyqt lfkndsyfyatm dw
thy edoatnr ilth q nqklgltr qag yaynvr ihleh wnyyfya daxr eqa glmkxqr.

La exdmlav thlm fr xqmt qaaoqx edffoaleqtlda, kynflt fy, wyxxdi-eltlbyam,
td edavnqtoxqty rdo da thy kndmkyndom edagltlda dw don jyxdsyg edoatnr.
Qjndqg ltm nyxqtldam ilth qxx wdnylva kdiynm qny wnlyagxr, ltm nlvhtm qny
nymkyetyg, qag ltm hlvh kxqey la thy wqflxr dw aqtldam ehyynwoxxr
nyedvalbyg. Qt hdfy iy yazdr qa qfdoat dw hqkklaymm, kojxle qag knlsqty,
ihleh hqm kndjqjxr aysyn wqxxya td thy xdt dw qar dthyn kydkxy. Jymlgym
qwwdnglav td don dia eltlbyam q gyvnyy dw kndmkynltr dw ihleh da md xqnvy q
meqxy L uadi dw ad dthyn lamtqaey, don edoatnr lm qaaoqxxr qwwdnglav q
nywovy qag q hdfy td foxtltogym, qxtdvythyn ilthdot ycqfkxy, wndf thy Dxg
Idnxg.

Iy diy thymy jxymmlavm, oagyn Hyqsya, td thy hqkkr Edamtltotlda qag
Vdsynafyat ihleh iyny jypoyqthyg td om jr don wqthynm, qag ihleh lt lm don
mqenyg gotr td tnqamflt la qxx thyln latyvnltr td don ehlxgnya. Iy fomt qxx
edamlgyn lt q vnyqt glmtlaetlda qag knlslxyvy td hqsy jyya ehdmya jr thy
kydkxy td jyqn q kqnt la thy qgflalmtnqtlda dw moeh q Vdsynafyat. Eqxxyg jr
qa oayckyetyg glmkyamqtlda td ltm hlvhymt tnomt qt q myqmda dw
yfjqnnqmmfyat qag qxqnf, L yatynyg okda ltm qngodom gotlym ilth yctnyfy
glwwlgyaey. L exqlf daxr td hqsy glmehqnvyg thyf td thy jymt dw qa hofjxy
qjlxltr, ilth q mlavxy yry td thy kojxle vddg, qag lt lm ilth gysdot
vnqtltogy la nytlnlav wndf dwwley thqt L xyqsy thy edoatnr la q mtqty dw
kyqey qag kndmkynltr.