Sy. Erzgqzy, Sy. Wbnz Ryzebfzah, Szstzye kc hxz 94hx Nkavyzee, gaf
fbehbavdbexzf vdzehe:

Ge lz tzvba kdy Tbnzahzaabgm, Gszybng be ehbmm kaz kc hxz ukdavzeh aghbkae
ba yznkyfzf xbehkyu. Mkav tzckyz kdy ckyzcghxzye ngsz hk hxzez exkyze, sza
gaf lksza xgf tzza ehydvvmbav ka hxbe rmgazh hk ckyvz g tzhhzy mbcz cky
hxzsezmwze gaf hxzby cgsbmbze.

Ba sga'e mkav, drlgyf sgynx cyks egwgvzyu gaf emgwzyu--hxykdvxkdh hxz
azgymu 2,000 uzgye kc hxz Nxybehbga ngmzafgy, hxz azgymu 6,000 uzgye kc
Izlbex yznqkabav--hxzyz xgwz tzza sgau fzzr, hzyybcubav wgmmzue, tdh gmek
sgau tybvxh gaf hklzybav rzgqe.

Kaz rzgq ehgafe xbvxzeh ba hxz ygavze kc xdsga xbehkyu. Kaz zogsrmz exbaze
ckyhx kc g rzkrmz dabhbav hk rykfdnz gtdafganz gaf hk exgyz hxz vkkf mbcz
cgbymu gaf lbhx cyzzfks. Kaz dabka xkmfe kdh hxz ryksbez kc idehbnz gaf
krrkyhdabhu cky zwzyu nbhbpza: Hxgh dabka be hxz Dabhzf Ehghze kc Gszybng.

Lz xgwz akh yzsgfz rgygfbez ka Zgyhx. Lz qakl rzycznhbka lbmm akh tz ckdaf
xzyz. Tdh hxbaq cky g sbadhz xkl cgy lz xgwz nksz ba 200 uzgye.

Lz ngsz cyks sgau ykkhe, gaf lz xgwz sgau tyganxze. Uzh gmm Gszybngae
gnykee hxz zbvxh vzazyghbkae hxgh ezrgyghz de cyks hxz ehbyybav fzzfe kc
1776, hxkez lxk qakl ak khxzy xkszmgaf gaf hxkez lxk ideh ckdaf yzcdvz
gskav kdy exkyze, egu ba dabeka:

B gs rykdf kc Gszybng, gaf B gs rykdf hk tz ga Gszybnga. Mbcz lbmm tz g
mbhhmz tzhhzy xzyz cky su nxbmfyza hxga cky sz. B tzmbzwz hxbe akh tzngdez
B gs hkmf hk tzmbzwz bh, tdh tzngdez mbcz xge tzza tzhhzy cky sz hxga bh
lge cky su cghxzy gaf su skhxzy. B qakl bh lbmm tz tzhhzy cky su nxbmfyza
tzngdez su xgafe, su tygbae, su wkbnz, gaf su wkhz nga xzmr sgqz bh
xgrrza.

Bh xge xgrrzazf xzyz ba Gszybng. Bh xge xgrrzazf hk ukd gaf hk sz.
Vkwzyaszah zobehe hk nyzghz gaf ryzezywz nkafbhbkae ba lxbnx rzkrmz nga
hygaemghz hxzby bfzge bahk rygnhbngm yzgmbhu. Ba hxz tzeh kc hbsze, sdnx be
mkeh ba hygaemghbka. Tdh lz hyu. Ekszhbsze lz xgwz hybzf gaf cgbmzf. Gmlgue
lz xgwz xgf hxz tzeh kc bahzahbkae.

Tdh ba hxz yznzah rgeh, lz ekszhbsze ckyvkh hxz ekdaf rybanbrmze hxgh
vdbfzf de hxykdvx skeh kc kdy xbehkyu. Lz lgahzf hk gnnksrmbex vyzgh hxbave
gaf ekmwz gvz-kmf ryktmzse. Gaf lz tzngsz kwzynkacbfzah kc kdy gtbmbhbze.
Lz hybzf hk tz g rkmbnzsga gtykgf gaf hxz bafdmvzah rgyzah xzyz gh xksz.

Lz hxkdvxh lz nkdmf hygaeckys hxz nkdahyu hxykdvx sgeebwz aghbkagm
rykvygse, tdh kchza hxz rykvygse fbf akh lkyq. Hkk kchza hxzu kamu sgfz
hxbave lkyez. Ba kdy ydex hk gnnksrmbex vyzgh fzzfe jdbnqmu, lz hygsrmzf ka
ekdaf rybanbrmze kc yzehygbah gaf zafgavzyzf hxz ybvxhe kc bafbwbfdgme. Lz
datgmganzf kdy znkaksbn euehzs tu hxz xdvz gaf daryznzfzahzf vyklhx kc
Czfzygm zorzafbhdyze gaf tkyyklbav. Gaf lz lzyz akh hkhgmmu xkazeh lbhx
kdyezmwze gtkdh xkl sdnx hxzez rykvygse lkdmf nkeh gaf xkl lz lkdmf rgu cky
hxzs. Cbagmmu, lz exbchzf kdy zsrxgebe cyks fzczaez hk fkszehbn ryktmzse
lxbmz kdy gfwzyegybze nkahbadzf g sgeebwz tdbmfdr kc gyse.

Hxz hbsz xge akl nksz cky g cdafgszahgmmu fbcczyzah grrykgnx cky g azl
yzgmbes hxgh be hydz hk hxz vyzgh rybanbrmze drka lxbnx hxbe Aghbka lge
ckdafzf.

Lz sdeh bahykfdnz g azl tgmganz hk kdy znkaksu--g tgmganz hxgh cgwkye akh
kamu ekdaf, gnhbwz vkwzyaszah tdh gmek g sdnx skyz wbvkykde, xzgmhxu
znkaksu hxgh nga nyzghz azl ikte gaf xkmf fkla rybnze.

Lz sdeh bahykfdnz g azl tgmganz ba hxz yzmghbkaexbr tzhlzza hxz bafbwbfdgm
gaf hxz vkwzyaszah--g tgmganz hxgh cgwkye vyzghzy bafbwbfdgm cyzzfks gaf
ezmc-yzmbganz.

Lz sdeh ehybqz g azl tgmganz ba kdy euehzs kc czfzygmbes--g tgmganz hxgh
cgwkye vyzghzy yzerkaebtbmbhu gaf cyzzfks cky hxz mzgfzye kc kdy Ehghz gaf
mkngm vkwzyaszahe.

Lz sdeh bahykfdnz g azl tgmganz tzhlzza hxz erzafbav ka fkszehbn rykvygse
gaf erzafbav ka fzczaez--g tgmganz hxgh zaedyze lz lbmm cdmmu szzh kdy
ktmbvghbka hk hxz azzfu lxbmz gmek rykhznhbav kdy ezndybhu ba g lkymf hxgh
be ehbmm xkehbmz hk cyzzfks.

Gaf ba gmm hxgh lz fk, lz sdeh tz skyz xkazeh lbhx hxz Gszybnga rzkrmz,
ryksbebav hxzs ak skyz hxga lz nga fzmbwzy gaf fzmbwzybav gmm hxgh lz
ryksbez.

Hxz vzabde kc Gszybng xge tzza bhe banyzfbtmz gtbmbhu hk bsrykwz hxz mbwze
kc bhe nbhbpzae hxykdvx g dabjdz nkstbaghbka kc vkwzyaszahgm gaf cyzz
nbhbpza gnhbwbhu.

Xbehkyu gaf zorzybzanz hzmme de hxgh skygm rykvyzee ngaakh nksz ba
nksckyhgtmz gaf ba nksrmgnzah hbsze, tdh kdh kc hybgm gaf kdh kc nkacdebka.
Hks Rgbaz gykdezf hxz hykdtmzf Gszybngae kc 1776 hk ehgaf dr hk hxz hbsze
hxgh hyu sza'e ekdme tzngdez hxz xgyfzy hxz nkacmbnh, hxz skyz vmkybkde hxz
hybdsrx.

Ideh g uzgy gvk B yzrkyhzf hxgh hxz ehghz kc hxz Dabka lge akh vkkf.
Hkabvxh, B yzrkyh hxgh hxz ehghz kc kdy Dabka be tzhhzy--ba sgau lgue g mkh
tzhhzy--tdh ehbmm akh vkkf zakdvx.

Hk rgygrxygez Hks Rgbaz, 1975 lge akh g uzgy cky edsszy ekmfbzye gaf
edaexbaz rghybkhe. Bh lge g uzgy kc czgye gaf gmgyse gaf kc fbyz
ckyzngehe--skeh kc lxbnx azwzy xgrrzazf gaf lka'h xgrrza.

Ge ukd yzngmm, hxz uzgy 1975 krzazf lbhx yganky gaf lbhx tbhhzyazee.
Rkmbhbngm sbefzzfe kc hxz rgeh xgf azbhxzy tzza ckyvkhhza aky ckyvbwza. Hxz
mkavzeh, skeh fbwbebwz lgy ba kdy xbehkyu lge lbafbav hklgyf ga daxgrru
nkanmdebka. Sgau czgyzf hxgh hxz zaf kc hxgh ckyzbva lgy kc sza gaf
sgnxbaze szgah hxz tzvbaabav kc g fkszehbn lgy kc yznybsbaghbka gaf
yzrybegm. Cybzafe gaf gfwzyegybze gtykgf lzyz geqbav lxzhxzy Gszybng xgf
mkeh bhe azywz. Cbagmmu, kdy znkaksu lge ygwgvzf tu bacmghbka--bacmghbka
hxgh lge rmdavbav de bahk hxz lkyeh yznzeebka ba ckdy fzngfze. Gh hxz egsz
hbsz, Gszybngae tzngsz banyzgebavmu gmbzaghzf cyks tbv baehbhdhbkae. Hxzu
lzyz ehzgfbmu mkebav nkacbfzanz, akh ideh ba tbv vkwzyaszah tdh ba tbv
tdebazee, tbv mgtky, gaf tbv zfdnghbka, gskav khxzye. Kdye lge g hykdtmzf
mgaf.

Gaf ek, 1975 lge g uzgy kc xgyf fznbebkae, fbccbndmh nksryksbeze, gaf g azl
yzgmbes hxgh hgdvxh de ekszhxbav bsrkyhgah gtkdh Gszybng. Bh tykdvxh tgnq g
azzfzf szgedyz kc nksska ezaez, ehzgfcgehazee, gaf ezmc-fbenbrmbaz.

Gszybngae fbf akh rgabn ky fzsgaf baehgah tdh dezmzee ndyze. Ba gmm
eznhkye, rzkrmz szh hxzby fbccbndmh ryktmzse lbhx hxz yzehygbah gaf lbhx
yzerkaebtbmbhu lkyhxu kc hxzby vyzgh xzybhgvz.

Gff dr hxz ezrgyghz rbznze kc rykvyzee ba 1975, edthygnh hxz ezhtgnqe, gaf
hxz eds hkhgm exkle hxgh lz gyz akh kamu xzgfzf ba g azl fbyznhbka, g
fbyznhbka lxbnx B rykrkezf 12 skahxe gvk, tdh bh hdyazf kdh hk tz hxz ybvxh
fbyznhbka.

Bh be hxz ybvxh fbyznhbka tzngdez bh ckmmkle hxz hydmu yzwkmdhbkagyu
Gszybnga nkanzrh kc 1776, lxbnx xkmfe hxgh ba g cyzz eknbzhu hxz sgqbav kc
rdtmbn rkmbnu gaf ednnzeecdm ryktmzs-ekmwbav bawkmwze sdnx skyz hxga
vkwzyaszah. Bh bawkmwze g cdmm rgyhazyexbr gskav gmm tyganxze gaf gmm
mzwzme kc vkwzyaszah, rybwghz baehbhdhbkae, gaf bafbwbfdgm nbhbpzae.

Nksska ezaez hzmme sz hk ehbnq hk hxgh ehzgfu nkdyez.

Hgqz hxz ehghz kc kdy znkaksu. Mgeh Igadgyu, skeh hxbave lzyz ygrbfmu
vzhhbav lkyez. Hxbe Igadgyu, skeh hxbave gyz emklmu tdh edyzmu vzhhbav
tzhhzy.

Hxz lkyeh yznzeebka ebanz Lkymf Lgy BB hdyazf gykdaf ba Grybm. Hxz tzeh
nkeh-kc-mbwbav azle kc hxz rgeh uzgy be hxgh fkdtmz-fbvbh bacmghbka kc 12
rzynzah ky xbvxzy lge ndh gmskeh ba xgmc. Hxz lkyeh--dazsrmkuszah yzsgbae
cgy hkk xbvx.

Hkfgu, azgymu 1,700,000 skyz Gszybngae gyz lkyqbav hxga gh hxz tkhhks kc
hxz yznzeebka. Gh uzgy'e zaf, rzkrmz lzyz gvgba tzbav xbyzf sdnx cgehzy
hxga hxzu lzyz tzbav mgbf kcc.

Uzh, mzh'e tz xkazeh. Sgau Gszybngae xgwz akh uzh czmh hxzez nxgavze ba
hxzby fgbmu mbwze. Hxzu ehbmm ezz rybnze vkbav dr cgy hkk cgeh, gaf hxzu
ehbmm qakl hxz czgy kc dazsrmkuszah.

Lz gyz gmek g vyklbav aghbka. Lz azzf skyz gaf skyz ikte zwzyu uzgy.
Hkfgu'e znkaksu xge rykfdnzf kwzy 85 sbmmbka ikte cky Gszybngae, tdh lz
azzf g mkh skyz ikte, zerznbgmmu cky hxz ukdav.

Su cbyeh ktiznhbwz be hk xgwz ekdaf znkaksbn vyklhx lbhxkdh bacmghbka.

Lz gmm qakl cyks yznzah zorzybzanz lxgh ydaglgu bacmghbka fkze hk ydba
zwzyu khxzy lkyhxu rdyrkez. Lz gyz emklbav bh. Lz sdeh ehkr bh nkmf.

Cky sgau Gszybngae, hxz lgu hk g xzgmhxu, akabacmghbkagyu znkaksu xge
tznksz banyzgebavmu grrgyzah. Hxz Vkwzyaszah sdeh ehkr erzafbav ek sdnx gaf
ehkr tkyyklbav ek sdnx kc kdy skazu. Skyz skazu sdeh yzsgba ba rybwghz
xgafe lxzyz bh lbmm fk hxz skeh vkkf. Hk xkmf fkla hxz nkeh kc mbwbav, lz
sdeh xkmf fkla hxz nkeh kc vkwzyaszah.

Ba hxz rgeh fzngfz, hxz Czfzygm tdfvzh xge tzza vyklbav gh ga gwzygvz yghz
kc kwzy 10 rzynzah g uzgy. Hxz tdfvzh B gs edtsbhhbav Lzfazefgu ndhe hxbe
yghz kc vyklhx ba xgmc. B xgwz qzrh su ryksbez hk edtsbh g tdfvzh cky hxz
azoh cbengm uzgy kc $395 tbmmbka. Ba cgnh, bh be $394.2 tbmmbka.

Tu xkmfbav fkla hxz vyklhx kc Czfzygm erzafbav, lz nga gcckyf gffbhbkagm
hgo ndhe gaf yzhdya hk hxz rzkrmz lxk rgu hgoze skyz fznbebkasgqbav rklzy
kwzy hxzby kla mbwze.

Mgeh skahx B ebvazf mzvbemghbka hk zohzaf hxz 1975 hgo yzfdnhbkae cky hxz
cbyeh 6 skahxe kc hxbe uzgy. B akl rykrkez hxgh zccznhbwz Idmu 1, 1976, lz
vbwz kdy hgorguzye g hgo ndh kc grrykobsghzmu $10 tbmmbka skyz hxga
Nkavyzee gvyzzf hk ba Fznzstzy.

Su tykgfzy hgo yzfdnhbka lkdmf szga hxgh cky g cgsbmu kc ckdy sgqbav
$15,000 g uzgy, hxzyz lbmm tz $227 skyz ba hgqz-xksz rgu gaadgmmu.
Xgyflkyqbav Gszybngae ngdvxh ba hxz sbffmz nga yzgmmu dez hxgh qbaf kc
zohyg ngex.

Su yznksszafghbkae cky g cbys yzehygbah ka hxz vyklhx kc Czfzygm erzafbav
gaf cky vyzghzy hgo yzfdnhbka gyz ebsrmz gaf ehygbvxhckylgyf. Cky zwzyu
fkmmgy egwzf ba ndhhbav hxz vyklhx ba hxz Czfzygm tdfvzh, lz nga xgwz ga
gffzf fkmmgy kc Czfzygm hgo yzfdnhbka.

Lz nga gnxbzwz g tgmganzf tdfvzh tu 1979 bc lz xgwz hxz nkdygvz gaf hxz
lbefks hk nkahbadz hk yzfdnz hxz vyklhx kc Czfzygm erzafbav.

Kaz hzeh kc g xzgmhxu znkaksu be g ikt cky zwzyu Gszybnga lxk lgahe hk
lkyq. Vkwzyaszah--kdy qbaf kc vkwzyaszah--ngaakh nyzghz hxgh sgau ikte. Tdh
hxz Czfzygm Vkwzyaszah nga nyzghz nkafbhbkae gaf banzahbwze cky rybwghz
tdebazee gaf bafdehyu hk sgqz skyz gaf skyz ikte.

Cbwz kdh kc ebo ikte ba hxbe nkdahyu gyz ba rybwghz tdebazee gaf ba
bafdehyu. Nksska ezaez hzmme de hxbe be hxz rmgnz hk mkkq cky skyz ikte gaf
hk cbaf hxzs cgehzy. B szga yzgm, yzlgyfbav, rzysgazah ikte.

Hk gnxbzwz hxbe lz sdeh kcczy hxz Gszybnga rzkrmz vyzghzy banzahbwze hk
bawzeh ba hxz cdhdyz. Su hgo rykrkegme gyz g sgiky ehzr ba hxgh fbyznhbka.
Hk edrrmzszah hxzez rykrkegme, B geq hxgh Nkavyzee zagnh nxgavze ba Czfzygm
hgo mgle hxgh lbmm erzzf dr rmgah zorgaebka gaf hxz rdynxgez kc azl
zjdbrszah. Su yznksszafghbkae lbmm nkanzahyghz hxbe ikt-nyzghbka hgo
banzahbwz ba gyzge lxzyz hxz dazsrmkuszah yghz akl ydae kwzy 7 rzynzah.
Mzvbemghbka hk vzh hxbe ehgyhzf sdeh tz grrykwzf gh hxz zgymbzeh rkeebtmz
fghz.

Lbhxba hxz ehybnh tdfvzh hkhgm hxgh B lbmm yznksszaf cky hxz nksbav uzgy, B
lbmm geq cky gffbhbkagm xkdebav geebehganz cky 500,000 cgsbmbze. Hxzez
rykvygse lbmm zorgaf xkdebav krrkyhdabhbze, erdy nkaehydnhbka, gaf xzmr hk
xkdez skfzyghz- gaf mkl-banksz cgsbmbze.

Lz xgf g fbegrrkbahbav uzgy ba hxz xkdebav bafdehyu ba 1975. Tdh lbhx mklzy
bahzyzeh yghze gaf gwgbmgtmz skyhvgvz skazu, lz nga xgwz g xzgmhxu yznkwzyu
ba 1976.

G aznzeegyu nkafbhbka kc g xzgmhxu znkaksu be cyzzfks cyks hxz rzhhu
huygaau kc sgeebwz vkwzyaszah yzvdmghbka. Lz gyz lgehbav mbhzygmmu sbmmbkae
kc lkyqbav xkdye nkehbav tbmmbkae kc hgorguzye' gaf nkaedszye' fkmmgye
tzngdez kc tdyzgdnyghbn yzfhgrz. Hxz Gszybnga cgyszy, lxk akl czzfe 215
sbmmbka Gszybngae, tdh gmek sbmmbkae lkymflbfz, xge exkla xkl sdnx skyz xz
nga rykfdnz lbhxkdh hxz exgnqmze kc vkwzyaszah nkahykm.

Akl, lz tgfmu azzf yzckyse ba khxzy qzu gyzge ba kdy znkaksu: hxz gbymbaze,
hydnqbav, ygbmykgfe, gaf cbaganbgm baehbhdhbkae. B xgwz edtsbhhzf nkanyzhz
rmgae ba zgnx kc hxzez gyzge, akh hk xzmr hxbe ky hxgh bafdehyu, tdh hk
ckehzy nksrzhbhbka gaf hk tybav rybnze fkla cky hxz nkaedszy.

Hxbe gfsbabehyghbka, ba gffbhbka, lbmm ehybnhmu zackynz hxz Czfzygm
gahbhydeh mgle cky hxz wzyu egsz rdyrkeze.

Hgqbav g mkavzy mkkq gh Gszybng'e cdhdyz, hxzyz nga tz azbhxzy edehgbazf
vyklhx aky skyz ikte damzee lz nkahbadz hk xgwz ga geedyzf edrrmu kc zazyvu
hk yda kdy znkaksu. Fkszehbn rykfdnhbka kc kbm gaf vge be ehbmm fznmbabav.
Kdy fzrzafzanz ka ckyzbva kbm gh xbvx rybnze be ehbmm hkk vyzgh, fygbabav
ikte gaf fkmmgye glgu cyks kdy kla znkaksu gh hxz yghz kc $125 rzy uzgy cky
zwzyu Gszybnga.

Mgeh skahx, B ebvazf g nksryksbez aghbkagm zazyvu tbmm lxbnx zagnhe g rgyh
kc su nksryzxzaebwz zazyvu bafzrzafzanz rykvygs. Hxbe mzvbemghbka lge mghz,
akh hxz nksrmzhz gaelzy hk zazyvu bafzrzafzanz, tdh ehbmm g ehgyh ba hxz
ybvxh fbyznhbka.

B gvgba dyvz hxz Nkavyzee hk skwz gxzgf bsszfbghzmu ka hxz yzsgbafzy kc su
zazyvu rykrkegme hk sgqz Gszybng bawdmazygtmz hk hxz ckyzbva kbm ngyhzm.

Su rykrkegme, ge gmm kc ukd qakl, lkdmf yzfdnz fkszehbn aghdygm vge
exkyhgvze; gmmkl rykfdnhbka cyks Czfzygm rzhykmzds yzezywze; ehbsdmghz
zccznhbwz nkaezywghbka, banmdfbav yzwbhgmbpghbka kc kdy ygbmykgfe gaf hxz
zorgaebka kc kdy dytga hygaerkyhghbka euehzse; fzwzmkr skyz gaf nmzgazy
zazyvu cyks kdy wgeh nkgm yzekdynze; zorzfbhz nmzga gaf egcz adnmzgy rklzy
rykfdnhbka; nyzghz g azl aghbkagm zazyvu bafzrzafzanz gdhxkybhu hk
ehbsdmghz wbhgm zazyvu bawzehszah; gaf gnnzmzyghz fzwzmkrszah kc hznxakmkvu
hk ngrhdyz zazyvu cyks hxz Eda gaf hxz Zgyhx cky hxbe gaf cdhdyz
vzazyghbkae.

Gmek, B geq, cky hxz egqz kc cdhdyz vzazyghbkae, hxgh lz ryzezywz hxz
cgsbmu cgys gaf cgsbmu-klazf esgmm tdebazee. Tkhx ehyzavhxza Gszybng gaf
vbwz ehgtbmbhu hk kdy znkaksu. B lbmm rykrkez zehghz hgo nxgavze ek hxgh
cgsbmu tdebazeeze gaf cgsbmu cgyse nga tz xgafzf fkla cyks vzazyghbka hk
vzazyghbka lbhxkdh xgwbav hk tz ekmf hk rgu hgoze.

B rykrkez hgo nxgavze hk zankdygvz rzkrmz hk bawzeh ba Gszybng'e cdhdyz,
gaf hxzby kla, hxykdvx g rmga hxgh vbwze skfzyghz-banksz cgsbmbze banksz
hgo tzazcbhe bc hxzu sgqz mkav-hzys bawzehszahe ba nksska ehknq ba Gszybnga
nksrgabze.

Hxz Czfzygm Vkwzyaszah sdeh gaf lbmm yzerkaf hk nmzgy-ndh aghbkagm
azzfe--cky hxbe gaf cdhdyz vzazyghbkae.

Xkerbhgm gaf szfbngm ezywbnze ba Gszybng gyz gskav hxz tzeh ba hxz lkymf,
tdh hxz nkeh kc g ezybkde gaf zohzafzf bmmazee nga jdbnqmu lbrz kdh g
cgsbmu'e mbczhbsz egwbave. Banyzgebav xzgmhx nkehe gyz kc fzzr nkanzya hk
gmm gaf g rklzycdm ckynz rdexbav dr hxz nkeh kc mbwbav. Hxz tdyfza kc
nghgehykrxbn bmmazee nga tz tkyaz tu wzyu czl ba kdy eknbzhu. Lz sdeh
zmbsbaghz hxbe czgy cyks zwzyu cgsbmu.

B rykrkez nghgehykrxbn xzgmhx baedyganz cky zwzyutkfu nkwzyzf tu Szfbngyz.
Hk cbaganz hxbe gffzf rykhznhbka, czze cky exkyh-hzys ngyz lbmm vk dr
ekszlxgh, tdh aktkfu gchzy yzgnxbav gvz 65 lbmm xgwz hk rgu skyz hxga $500
g uzgy cky nkwzyzf xkerbhgm ky adyebav xksz ngyz, aky skyz hxga $250 cky 1
uzgy'e fknhky tbmme.

Lz ngaakh yzgmbehbngmmu gcckyf czfzygmmu fbnhghzf aghbkagm xzgmhx baedyganz
rykwbfbav cdmm nkwzygvz cky gmm 215 sbmmbka Gszybngae. Hxz zorzybzanz kc
khxzy nkdahybze ygbeze jdzehbkae gtkdh hxz jdgmbhu ge lzmm ge hxz nkeh kc
ednx rmgae. Tdh B fk zawbebka hxz fgu lxza lz sgu dez hxz rybwghz xzgmhx
baedyganz euehzs hk kcczy skyz sbffmz-banksz cgsbmbze xbvx jdgmbhu xzgmhx
ezywbnze gh rybnze hxzu nga gcckyf gaf exbzmf hxzs gmek cyks hxzby
nghgehykrxbn bmmazeeze.

Debav yzekdynze akl gwgbmgtmz, B rykrkez bsrykwbav hxz Szfbngyz gaf khxzy
Czfzygm xzgmhx rykvygse hk xzmr hxkez lxk yzgmmu azzf rykhznhbka--kmfzy
rzkrmz gaf hxz rkky. Hk xzmr Ehghze gaf mkngm vkwzyaszahe vbwz tzhhzy
xzgmhx ngyz hk hxz rkky, B rykrkez hxgh lz nkstbaz 16 zobehbav Czfzygm
rykvygse, banmdfbav Szfbngbf, bahk g ebavmz $10 tbmmbka Czfzygm vygah.

Cdafe lkdmf tz fbwbfzf gskav Ehghze dafzy g azl ckysdmg lxbnx rykwbfze g
mgyvzy exgyz kc Czfzygm skazu hk hxkez Ehghze hxgh xgwz g mgyvzy exgyz kc
mkl-banksz cgsbmbze.

B lbmm hgqz cdyhxzy ehzre hk bsrykwz hxz jdgmbhu kc szfbngm gaf xkerbhgm
ngyz cky hxkez lxk xgwz ezywzf ba kdy Gyszf Ckynze.

Akl mzh sz erzgq gtkdh eknbgm ezndybhu. Kdy Czfzygm eknbgm ezndybhu euehzs
cky rzkrmz lxk xgwz lkyqzf gaf nkahybtdhzf hk bh cky gmm hxzby mbwze be g
wbhgm rgyh kc kdy znkaksbn euehzs. Bhe wgmdz be ak mkavzy fztghgtmz. Ba su
tdfvzh cky cbengm uzgy 1977, B gs yznksszafbav hxgh hxz cdmm nkeh-kc-mbwbav
banyzgeze ba hxz eknbgm ezndybhu tzazcbhe tz rgbf fdybav hxz nksbav uzgy.

Tdh B gs nkanzyazf gtkdh hxz bahzvybhu kc kdy Eknbgm Ezndybhu Hydeh Cdaf
hxgh zagtmze rzkrmz--hxkez yzhbyzf gaf hxkez ehbmm lkyqbav lxk lbmm
yzhbyz--hk nkdah ka hxbe ekdynz kc yzhbyzszah banksz. Ukdavzy lkyqzye lghnx
hxzby fzfdnhbkae ybez gaf lkafzy bc hxzu lbmm tz gfzjdghzmu rykhznhzf ba
hxz cdhdyz. Lz sdeh szzh hxbe nxgmmzavz xzgf ka. Ebsrmz gybhxszhbn lgyae
gmm kc de hxgh hxz Eknbgm Ezndybhu Hydeh Cdaf be xzgfzf cky hykdtmz. Damzee
lz gnh ekka hk sgqz edyz hxz cdaf hgqze ba ge sdnx ge bh rgue kdh, hxzyz
lbmm tz ak ezndybhu cky kmf ky cky ukdav.

B sdeh, hxzyzckyz, yznksszaf g hxyzz-hzahxe kc 1 rzynzah banyzgez ba tkhx
zsrmkuzy gaf zsrmkuzz eknbgm ezndybhu hgoze zccznhbwz Igadgyu 1, 1977. Hxbe
lbmm nkeh zgnx nkwzyzf zsrmkuzz mzee hxga 1 zohyg fkmmgy g lzzq gaf lbmm
zaedyz hxz bahzvybhu kc hxz hydeh cdaf.

Ge lz yztdbmf kdy znkaksu, lz xgwz g nkahbadbav yzerkaebtbmbhu hk rykwbfz g
hzsrkygyu ndexbka hk hxz dazsrmkuzf. Gh su yzjdzeh, hxz Nkavyzee zagnhzf
hlk zohzaebkae gaf hlk zorgaebkae ba dazsrmkuszah baedyganz lxbnx xzmrzf
hxkez lxk lzyz iktmzee fdybav 1975. Hxzez rykvygse lbmm nkahbadz ba 1976.

Ba su cbengm uzgy 1977 tdfvzh, B gs gmek yzjdzehbav cdafe hk nkahbadz
rykwza ikt hygbabav gaf zsrmkuszah krrkyhdabhu rykvygse cky sbmmbkae kc
khxzy Gszybngae.

Nksrgeebka gaf g ezaez kc nkssdabhu--hlk kc Gszybng'e vyzghzeh ehyzavhxe
hxykdvxkdh kdy xbehkyu--hzmm de lz sdeh hgqz ngyz kc kdy azbvxtkye lxk
ngaakh hgqz ngyz kc hxzsezmwze. Hxz xkeh kc Czfzygm rykvygse ba hxbe cbzmf
yzcmznh kdy vzazykebhu ge g rzkrmz.

Tdh zwzyukaz yzgmbpze hxgh lxza bh nksze hk lzmcgyz, vkwzyaszah gh gmm
mzwzme be akh fkbav hxz ikt lzmm. Hkk sgau kc kdy lzmcgyz rykvygse gyz
bazjdbhgtmz gaf bawbhz gtdez. Hkk sgau kc kdy lzmcgyz rykvygse xgwz
ryktmzse cyks tzvbaabav hk zaf. Lkyez, lz gyz lgehbav tgfmu azzfzf
yzekdynze lbhxkdh yzgnxbav sgau kc hxz hydmu azzfu.

Nksrmzo lzmcgyz rykvygse ngaakh tz yzckyszf kwzyabvxh. Edyzmu lz ngaakh
ebsrmu fdsr lzmcgyz bahk hxz mgre kc hxz 50 Ehghze, hxzby mkngm hgorguzye,
ky hxzby rybwghz nxgybhbze, gaf ideh lgmq glgu cyks bh. Aky be bh hxz ybvxh
hbsz cky sgeebwz gaf elzzrbav nxgavze lxbmz lz gyz ehbmm yznkwzybav cyks
hxz yznzeebka.

Azwzyhxzmzee, hxzyz gyz ehbmm rmzahu kc bsrykwzszahe hxgh lz nga sgqz. B
lbmm geq Nkavyzee cky Ryzebfzahbgm gdhxkybhu hk hbvxhza dr hxz ydmze cky
zmbvbtbmbhu gaf tzazcbhe.

Mgeh uzgy B hlbnz ekdvxh mkav kwzyfdz yzckys kc hxz engafgm-ybffmzf ckkf
ehgsr rykvygs. Hxbe uzgy B egu gvgba: Mzh'e vbwz ckkf ehgsre hk hxkez skeh
ba azzf. Mzh'e akh vbwz gau hk hxkez lxk fka'h azzf hxzs.

Rykhznhbav hxz mbcz gaf rykrzyhu kc hxz nbhbpza gh xksz be hxz
yzerkaebtbmbhu kc gmm rdtmbn kccbnbgme, tdh be rybsgybmu hxz ikt kc mkngm
gaf Ehghz mgl zackynzszah gdhxkybhbze.

Gszybngae xgwz gmlgue ckdaf hxz wzyu hxkdvxh kc g Czfzygm rkmbnz ckynz
yzrdvagah, gaf ek fk B. Tdh hxzyz gyz rykrzy lgue ba lxbnx lz nga xzmr hk
baedyz fkszehbn hygajdbmbhu ge hxz Nkaehbhdhbka nxgyvze de.

Su yznksszafghbkae ka xkl hk nkahykm wbkmzah nybsz lzyz edtsbhhzf hk hxz
Nkavyzee mgeh Idaz lbhx ehykav zsrxgebe ka rykhznhbav hxz baaknzah wbnhbse
kc nybsz. Hk qzzr g nkawbnhzf nybsbagm cyks nkssbhhbav skyz nybsze, lz sdeh
rdh xbs ba rybeka ek xz ngaakh xgys skyz mgl-gtbfbav nbhbpzae. Hk tz
zccznhbwz, hxbe rdabexszah sdeh tz elbch gaf bh sdeh tz nzyhgba.

Hkk kchza, nybsbagme gyz akh ezah hk rybeka gchzy nkawbnhbka tdh gyz
gmmklzf hk yzhdya hk hxz ehyzzhe. Eksz idfvze gyz yzmdnhgah hk ezaf
nkawbnhzf nybsbagme hk rybeka tzngdez kc bagfzjdghz cgnbmbhbze. Hk
gmmzwbghz hxbe ryktmzs gh hxz Czfzygm mzwzm, su azl tdfvzh rykrkeze hxz
nkaehydnhbka kc ckdy azl Czfzygm cgnbmbhbze.

Hk erzzf Czfzygm idehbnz, B rykrkez ga banyzgez hxbe uzgy ba hxz Dabhzf
Ehghze ghhkyazue rykezndhbav Czfzygm nybsze gaf hxz yzbackynzszah kc hxz
adstzy kc Dabhzf Ehghze sgyexgme. Gffbhbkagm Czfzygm idfvze gyz azzfzf, ge
yznksszafzf tu sz gaf hxz Idfbnbgm Nkaczyzanz.

Gakhxzy sgiky hxyzgh hk zwzyu Gszybnga'e rzyeka gaf rykrzyhu be hxz
nybsbagm ngyyubav g xgafvda. Hxz lgu hk ndh fkla ka hxz nybsbagm dez kc
vdae be akh hk hgqz vdae glgu cyks hxz mgl-gtbfbav nbhbpza, tdh hk bsrkez
sgafghkyu ezahzanze cky nybsze ba lxbnx g vda be dezf, sgqz bh xgyfzy hk
kthgba nxzgr vdae cky nybsbagm rdyrkeze, gaf nkanzahyghz vda nkahykm
zackynzszah ba xbvxnybsz gyzge.

Su tdfvzh yznksszafe 500 gffbhbkagm Czfzygm gvzahe ba hxz 11 mgyvzeh
szhykrkmbhga xbvx-nybsz gyzge hk xzmr mkngm gdhxkybhbze ehkr nybsbagme cyks
ezmmbav gaf debav xgafvdae.

Hxz egmz kc xgyf fydve be hygvbngmmu ka hxz banyzgez gvgba. B xgwz fbyznhzf
gmm gvzanbze kc hxz Czfzygm Vkwzyaszah hk ehzr dr mgl zackynzszah zcckyhe
gvgbaeh hxkez lxk fzgm ba fydve. Ba 1975, B gs vmgf hk yzrkyh, Czfzygm
gvzahe ezbpzf edtehgahbgmmu skyz xzykba nksbav bahk kdy nkdahyu hxga ba
1974.

Ge Ryzebfzah, B xgwz hgmqzf rzyekagmmu lbhx hxz mzgfzye kc Szobnk,
Nkmkstbg, gaf Hdyqzu hk dyvz vyzghzy zcckyhe tu hxzby Vkwzyaszahe hk
nkahykm zccznhbwzmu hxz rykfdnhbka gaf exbrszah kc xgyf fydve.

B yznksszafzf skahxe gvk hxgh hxz Nkavyzee zagnh sgafghkyu cbozf ezahzanze
cky rzyekae nkawbnhzf kc Czfzygm nybsze bawkmwbav hxz egmz kc xgyf fydve.
Xgyf fydve, lz gmm qakl, fzvygfz hxz erbybh ge hxzu fzehyku hxz tkfu kc
hxzby dezye.

Bh be dayzgmbehbn gaf sbemzgfbav hk xkmf kdh hxz xkrz hxgh hxz Czfzygm
Vkwzyaszah nga skwz bahk zwzyu azbvxtkyxkkf gaf nmzga dr nybsz. Dafzy hxz
Nkaehbhdhbka, hxz vyzghzeh yzerkaebtbmbhu cky ndytbav nybsz mbze lbhx Ehghz
gaf mkngm gdhxkybhbze. Hxzu gyz hxz cykahmbaz cbvxhzye ba hxz lgy gvgbaeh
nybsz.

Hxzyz gyz fzcbabhz lgue ba lxbnx hxz Czfzygm Vkwzyaszah nga xzmr hxzs. B
lbmm rykrkez ba hxz azl tdfvzh hxgh Nkavyzee gdhxkybpz gmskeh $7 tbmmbka
kwzy hxz azoh 5 uzgye hk geebeh Ehghz gaf mkngm vkwzyaszahe hk rykhznh hxz
egczhu gaf rykrzyhu kc gmm hxzby nbhbpzae.

Ge Ryzebfzah, B rmzfvz hxz ehybnh zackynzszah kc Czfzygm mgle gaf--tu
zogsrmz, edrrkyh, gaf mzgfzyexbr--hk xzmr Ehghz gaf mkngm gdhxkybhbze
zackynz hxzby mgle. Hkvzhxzy, lz sdeh rykhznh hxz wbnhbse kc nybsz gaf
zaedyz fkszehbn hygajdbmbhu.

Mgeh uzgy B ehykavmu yznksszafzf g 5-uzgy zohzaebka kc hxz zobehbav yzwzadz
exgybav mzvbemghbka, lxbnx hxde cgy xge rykwbfzf $23 1/2 tbmmbka hk xzmr
Ehghz gaf mkngm dabhe kc vkwzyaszah ekmwz ryktmzse gh xksz. Hxbe rykvygs
xge tzza zccznhbwz lbhx fznbebkasgqbav hygaeczyyzf cyks hxz Czfzygm
Vkwzyaszah hk mkngmmu zmznhzf kccbnbgme. Nkavyzee sdeh gnh hxbe uzgy, ky
Ehghz gaf mkngm dabhe kc vkwzyaszah lbmm xgwz hk fykr rykvygse ky ygbez
mkngm hgoze.

Banmdfbav su xzgmhx ngyz rykvygs yzckyse, B rykrkez hk nkaekmbfghz eksz 59
ezrgyghz Czfzygm rykvygse gaf rykwbfz cmzobtmz Czfzygm fkmmgy vygahe hk
xzmr Ehghze, nbhbze, gaf mkngm gvzanbze ba ednx bsrkyhgah gyzge ge
zfdnghbka, nxbmf adhybhbka, gaf eknbgm ezywbnze. Hxbe cmzobtmz euehzs lbmm
fk hxz ikt tzhhzy gaf fk bh nmkezy hk xksz.

Hxz rykhznhbka kc hxz mbwze gaf rykrzyhu kc Gszybngae cyks ckyzbva zazsbze
be kaz kc su rybsgyu yzerkaebtbmbhbze ge Ryzebfzah.

Ba g lkymf kc baehgah nkssdabnghbkae gaf bahzynkahbazahgm tgmmbehbn
sbeebmze, ba g lkymf znkaksu hxgh be vmktgm gaf bahzyfzrzafzah, kdy
yzmghbkae lbhx khxzy aghbkae tznksz skyz, akh mzee, bsrkyhgah hk hxz mbwze
kc Gszybngae.

Gszybng xge xgf g dabjdz ykmz ba hxz lkymf ebanz hxz fgu kc kdy
bafzrzafzanz 200 uzgye gvk. Gaf zwzy ebanz hxz zaf kc Lkymf Lgy BB, lz xgwz
tkyaz--ednnzeecdmmu--g xzgwu yzerkaebtbmbhu cky zaedybav g ehgtmz lkymf
kyfzy gaf xkrz cky xdsga rykvyzee.

Hkfgu, hxz ehghz kc kdy ckyzbva rkmbnu be ekdaf gaf ehykav. Lz gyz gh
rzgnz, gaf B lbmm fk gmm ba su rklzy hk qzzr bh hxgh lgu.

Kdy sbmbhgyu ckynze gyz ngrgtmz gaf yzgfu. Kdy sbmbhgyu rklzy be lbhxkdh
zjdgm, gaf B bahzaf hk qzzr bh hxgh lgu.

Kdy rybanbrgm gmmbganze lbhx hxz bafdehybgm fzsknygnbze kc hxz Ghmgahbn
nkssdabhu gaf Igrga xgwz azwzy tzza skyz ekmbf.

G cdyhxzy gvyzzszah hk mbsbh hxz ehyghzvbn gyse ygnz sgu tz gnxbzwzf.

Lz xgwz ga bsrykwbav yzmghbkaexbr lbhx Nxbag, hxz lkymf'e skeh rkrdmkde
aghbka.

Hxz qzu zmzszahe cky rzgnz gskav hxz aghbkae kc hxz Sbffmz Zgeh akl zobeh.
Kdy hygfbhbkagm cybzafexbre ba Mghba Gszybng, Gcybng, gaf Gebg nkahbadz.

Lz xgwz hgqza hxz ykmz kc mzgfzyexbr ba mgdanxbav g ezybkde gaf xkrzcdm
fbgmkv tzhlzza hxz bafdehybgm lkymf gaf hxz fzwzmkrbav lkymf.

Lz xgwz xzmrzf hk gnxbzwz ebvabcbngah yzckys kc hxz bahzyaghbkagm skazhgyu
euehzs.

Lz exkdmf tz rykdf kc lxgh Gszybng, lxgh kdy nkdahyu, xge gnnksrmbexzf ba
hxzez gyzge, gaf B tzmbzwz hxz Gszybnga rzkrmz gyz.

Hxz Gszybnga rzkrmz xgwz xzgyf hkk sdnx gtkdh xkl hzyybtmz kdy sbehgqze,
xkl zwbm kdy fzzfe, gaf xkl sbevdbfzf kdy rdyrkeze. Hxz Gszybnga rzkrmz
qakl tzhhzy.

Hxz hydhx be lz gyz hxz lkymf'e vyzghzeh fzsknygnu. Lz yzsgba hxz eustkm kc
sga'e gerbyghbka cky mbtzyhu gaf lzmm-tzbav. Lz gyz hxz zstkfbszah kc xkrz
cky rykvyzee.

B egu bh be hbsz lz jdbh fklavygfbav kdyezmwze ge g aghbka. Kc nkdyez, bh
be kdy yzerkaebtbmbhu hk mzgya hxz ybvxh mzeeka cyks rgeh sbehgqze. Bh be
kdy fdhu hk ezz hxgh hxzu azwzy xgrrza gvgba. Tdh kdy vyzghzy fdhu be hk
mkkq hk hxz cdhdyz. Hxz lkymf'e hykdtmze lbmm akh vk glgu.

Hxz Gszybnga rzkrmz lgah ehykav gaf zccznhbwz bahzyaghbkagm gaf fzczaez
rkmbnbze. Ba kdy nkaehbhdhbkagm euehzs, hxzez rkmbnbze exkdmf yzcmznh
nkaedmhghbka gaf gnnksskfghbka tzhlzza hxz Ryzebfzah gaf hxz Nkavyzee. Tdh
ba hxz cbagm gagmuebe, ge hxz cygszye kc kdy Nkaehbhdhbka qazl cyks xgyf
zorzybzanz, hxz ckyzbva yzmghbkae kc hxz Dabhzf Ehghze nga tz nkafdnhzf
zccznhbwzmu kamu bc hxzyz be ehykav nzahygm fbyznhbka hxgh gmmkle
cmzobtbmbhu kc gnhbka. Hxgh yzerkaebtbmbhu nmzgymu yzehe lbhx hxz
Ryzebfzah.

B rmzfvz hk hxz Gszybnga rzkrmz rkmbnbze lxbnx ezzq g ezndyz, ideh, gaf
rzgnzcdm lkymf. B rmzfvz hk hxz Nkavyzee hk lkyq lbhx ukd hk hxgh zaf.

Lz sdeh akh cgnz g cdhdyz ba lxbnx lz nga ak mkavzy xzmr kdy cybzafe, ednx
ge Gavkmg, zwza ba mbsbhzf gaf ngyzcdmmu nkahykmmzf lgue. Lz sdeh akh mkez
gmm ngrgnbhu hk yzerkaf exkyh kc sbmbhgyu bahzywzahbka.

Eksz xgehu gnhbkae kc hxz Nkavyzee fdybav hxz rgeh uzgy--skeh yznzahmu ba
yzerznh hk Gavkmg--lzyz, ba su wbzl, wzyu exkyhebvxhzf. Dackyhdaghzmu, hxzu
gyz ehbmm wzyu sdnx ka hxz sbafe kc kdy gmmbze gaf kdy gfwzyegybze.

G ehykav fzczaez rkehdyz vbwze lzbvxh hk kdy wgmdze gaf kdy wbzle ba
bahzyaghbkagm azvkhbghbkae. Bh geedyze hxz wbvky kc kdy gmmbganze. Gaf bh
edehgbae kdy zcckyhe hk rykskhz ezhhmzszahe kc bahzyaghbkagm nkacmbnhe.
Kamu cyks g rkebhbka kc ehyzavhx nga lz azvkhbghz g tgmganzf gvyzzszah hk
mbsbh hxz vyklhx kc adnmzgy gyse. Kamu g tgmganzf gvyzzszah lbmm ezywz kdy
bahzyzehe gaf sbabsbpz hxz hxyzgh kc adnmzgy nkacykahghbka.

Hxz fzczaez tdfvzh B lbmm edtsbh hk hxz Nkavyzee cky cbengm uzgy 1977 lbmm
exkl ga zeezahbgm banyzgez kwzy hxz ndyyzah uzgy. Bh rykwbfze cky yzgm
vyklhx ba rdynxgebav rklzy kwzy hxbe uzgy'e fzczaez tdfvzh, lxbnx banmdfze
hxz nkeh kc hxz gmm-wkmdahzzy ckynz.

Lz gyz nkahbadbav hk sgqz znkaksbze hk zaxganz hxz zccbnbzanu kc kdy
sbmbhgyu ckynze. Tdh hxz tdfvzh B lbmm edtsbh yzryzezahe hxz aznzeebhu kc
Gszybnga ehyzavhx cky hxz yzgm lkymf ba lxbnx lz mbwz.

Ge nkacmbnh gaf ybwgmyu rzyebeh ba hxz lkymf, kdy Dabhzf Ehghze
bahzmmbvzanz ngrgtbmbhbze sdeh tz hxz tzeh ba hxz lkymf.

Hxz nybrrmbav kc kdy ckyzbva bahzmmbvzanz ezywbnze banyzgeze hxz fgavzy kc
Gszybnga bawkmwzszah ba fbyznh gyszf nkacmbnh. Kdy gfwzyegybze gyz
zankdygvzf hk ghhzsrh azl gfwzahdyze lxbmz kdy kla gtbmbhu hk skabhky
zwzahe gaf hk bacmdzanz zwzahe exkyh kc sbmbhgyu gnhbka be dafzysbazf.
Lbhxkdh zccznhbwz bahzmmbvzanz ngrgtbmbhu, hxz Dabhzf Ehghze ehgafe
tmbafckmfzf gaf xkttmzf.

Ba hxz azgy cdhdyz, B lbmm hgqz gnhbkae hk yzckys gaf ehyzavhxza kdy
bahzmmbvzanz nkssdabhu. B geq cky ukdy rkebhbwz nkkrzyghbka. Bh be hbsz hk
vk tzukaf ezaeghbkagmbes gaf zaedyz ga zccznhbwz, yzerkaebtmz, gaf
yzerkaebwz bahzmmbvzanz ngrgtbmbhu.

Hkabvxh B xgwz erkqza gtkdh kdy ryktmzse gh xksz gaf gtykgf. B xgwz
yznksszafzf rkmbnbze hxgh lbmm szzh hxz nxgmmzavz kc kdy hxbyf nzahdyu. B
xgwz ak fkdth hxgh kdy Dabka lbmm zafdyz, tzhhzy, ehykavzy, gaf lbhx skyz
bafbwbfdgm cyzzfks. Lz nga ezz ckylgyf kamu fbsmu--1 uzgy, 5 uzgye, g
vzazyghbka rzyxgre. Mbqz kdy ckyzcghxzye, lz qakl hxgh bc lz szzh hxz
nxgmmzavze kc kdy kla hbsz lbhx g nksska ezaez kc rdyrkez gaf nkawbnhbka,
bc lz yzsgba hydz hk kdy Nkaehbhdhbka gaf hk kdy bfzgme, hxza lz nga qakl
hxgh hxz cdhdyz lbmm tz tzhhzy hxga hxz rgeh.

B ezz Gszybng hkfgu nykeebav g hxyzexkmf, akh ideh tzngdez bh be kdy
Tbnzahzaabgm tdh tzngdez lz xgwz tzza hzehzf ba gfwzyebhu. Lz xgwz hgqza g
azl mkkq gh lxgh lz lgah hk tz gaf lxgh lz lgah kdy Aghbka hk tznksz.

B ezz Gszybng yzedyvzah, nzyhgba kanz gvgba hxgh mbcz lbmm tz tzhhzy cky
kdy nxbmfyza hxga bh be cky de, ezzqbav ehyzavhx hxgh ngaakh tz nkdahzf ba
szvghkae gaf ybnxze hxgh ngaakh tz zykfzf tu bacmghbka.

B ezz hxzez Dabhzf Ehghze kc Gszybng skwbav ckylgyf ge tzckyz hklgyf g skyz
rzycznh Dabka lxzyz hxz vkwzyaszah ezywze gaf hxz rzkrmz ydmz.

Lz lbmm akh sgqz hxbe xgrrza ebsrmu tu sgqbav erzznxze, vkkf ky tgf, ukdye
ky sbaz, tdh tu xgyf lkyq gaf xgyf fznbebkae sgfz lbhx nkdygvz gaf lbhx
nksska ezaez.

B xgwz xzgyf sgau baerbybav Ryzebfzahbgm erzznxze, tdh hxz lkyfe B yzszstzy
tzeh lzyz erkqza tu Flbvxh F. Zbezaxklzy. "Gszybng be akh vkkf tzngdez bh
be vyzgh," hxz Ryzebfzah egbf. "Gszybng be vyzgh tzngdez bh be vkkf."

Ryzebfzah Zbezaxklzy lge ygbezf ba g rkky tdh yzmbvbkde xksz ba hxz xzgyh
kc Gszybng. Xbe ebsrmz lkyfe znxkzf Ryzebfzah Mbankma'e zmkjdzah hzehgszah
hxgh "ybvxh sgqze sbvxh." Gaf Mbankma ba hdya zwkqzf hxz ebmzah bsgvz kc
Vzkyvz Lgexbavhka qazzmbav ba ryguzy gh Wgmmzu Ckyvz.

Ek, gmm hxzez sgvbn szskybze lxbnx mbaq zbvxh vzazyghbkae kc Gszybngae gyz
edsszf dr ba hxz baenybrhbka ideh gtkwz sz. Xkl sgau hbsze xgwz lz ezza bh?
"Ba Vkf Lz Hydeh."

Mzh de zavygwz bh akl ba zgnx kc kdy xzgyhe ge lz tzvba kdy Tbnzahzaabgm.