Cj. Gvyroyj, Cj. Lady Vjygakymp, Cyciyjg wu pey 95pe Dwmzjygg, rmk
kagpamzbageyk zbygpg:

Am rddwjkrmdy nape pey Dwmgpapbpawm, A dwcy iyuwjy hwb wmdy rzram pw jyvwjp
wm pey gprpy wu pey Bmawm.

Peag jyvwjp naqq iy ch qrgp--crhiy--[qrbzepyj]--ibp uwj pey Bmawm ap ag
wmqh pey uajgp wu gbde jyvwjpg am wbj peajk dympbjh wu amkyvymkymdy, pey
dqwgy wu neade mwmy wu bg naqq ylyj gyy. Ny drm iy dwmuakymp, ewnylyj, perp
100 hyrjg ujwc mwn r ujyyqh yqydpyk Vjygakymp naqq dwcy iyuwjy r ujyyqh
yqydpyk Dwmzjygg dewgym pw jymyn wbj zjyrp Jyvbiqad'g vqykzy pw pey
Zwlyjmcymp wu pey vywvqy, ih pey vywvqy, rmk uwj pey vywvqy.

Uwj ch vrjp A vjrh pey peajk dympbjh ny rjy iyzammamz naqq ijamz pw rqq
Rcyjadrmg, wbj deaqkjym rmk peyaj deaqkjym'g deaqkjym, r zjyrpyj cyrgbjy wu
amkalakbrq ytbrqaph, wvvwjpbmaph, rmk xbgpady, r zjyrpyj ribmkrmdy wu
gvajapbrq rmk crpyjarq iqyggamzg, rmk r eazeyj tbrqaph wu qauy, qaiyjph,
rmk pey vbjgbap wu ervvamygg.

Pey gprpy wu pey Bmawm ag r cyrgbjycymp wu pey crmh yqycympg wu neade ap ag
dwcvwgyk--r vwqapadrq bmawm wu kalyjgy Gprpyg, rm ydwmwcad bmawm wu lrjhamz
ampyjygpg, rm ampyqqydpbrq bmawm wu dwccwm dwmladpawmg, rmk r cwjrq bmawm
wu accbpriqy akyrqg.

Proym am gbc, A drm jyvwjp perp pey gprpy wu pey Bmawm ag zwwk. Peyjy ag
jwwc uwj acvjwlycymp, rg rqnrhg, ibp pwkrh ny erly r cwjy vyjuydp Bmawm
perm neym ch gpynrjkgeav iyzrm.

Rg r vywvqy ny kagdwlyjyk perp wbj Iadympymmarq nrg cbde cwjy perm r
dyqyijrpawm wu pey vrgp; ap iydrcy r xwhwbg jyruuajcrpawm wu rqq perp ap
cyrmg pw iy Rcyjadrmg, r dwmuajcrpawm iyuwjy rqq pey nwjqk wu pey laprqaph
rmk kbjriaqaph wu wbj ujyy amgpapbpawmg. A rc vjwbk pw erly iyym vjalaqyzyk
pw vjygaky wlyj pey ruurajg wu wbj Uykyjrq Zwlyjmcymp kbjamz peygy ylympubq
hyrjg neym ny vjwlyk, rg A grak am ch uajgp nwjkg bvwm rggbcamz wuuady,
perp "wbj Dwmgpapbpawm nwjog; wbj zjyrp Jyvbiqad ag r Zwlyjmcymp wu qrng
rmk mwp wu cym. Eyjy pey vywvqy jbqy."

Pey vywvqy erly gvwoym; peyh erly dewgym r myn Vjygakymp rmk r myn Dwmzjygg
pw nwjo peyaj naqq. A dwmzjrpbqrpy hwb--vrjpadbqrjqh pey myn Cyciyjg--rg
gamdyjyqh rg A kak Vjygakymp-yqydp Drjpyj. Am r uyn krhg ap naqq iy eag
kbph pw wbpqamy uwj hwb eag vjawjapayg rmk qyzagqrpaly jydwccymkrpawmg.
Pwmazep A naqq mwp amujamzy wm perp jygvwmgaiaqaph, ibp jrpeyj nage eac pey
lyjh iygp am rqq perp ag zwwk uwj wbj dwbmpjh.

Kbjamz pey vyjawk wu ch wnm gyjlady am peag Drvapwq rmk am pey Neapy Ewbgy,
A drm jydrqq crmh wjkyjqh pjrmgapawmg wu zwlyjmcymprq jygvwmgaiaqaph--wu
vjwiqycg rg nyqq rg wu vwgapawm, wu ibjkymg rg nyqq rg wu vwnyj. Pey zymabg
wu pey Rcyjadrm ghgpyc ag perp ny kw peag gw mrpbjrqqh rmk gw mwjcrqqh.
Peyjy rjy mw gwqkayjg crjdeamz am pey gpjyyp ysdyvp am pey Amrbzbjrq
Vrjrky; mw vbiqad kycwmgpjrpawmg ysdyvp uwj gwcy wu pey krmdyjg rp pey
Amrbzbjrq Irqq; pey wvvwgapawm vrjph kwygm'p zw bmkyjzjwbmk, ibp zwyg wm
ubmdpawmamz lazwjwbgqh am pey Dwmzjygg rmk am pey dwbmpjh; rmk wbj lazaqrmp
vjygg zwyg jazep wm vjwiamz rmk vbiqageamz wbj urbqpg rmk wbj uwqqayg,
dwmuajcamz pey nagkwc wu pey ujrcyjg wu pey uajgp rcymkcymp.

Iydrbgy wu pey pjrmguyj wu rbpewjaph am wbj uwjc wu zwlyjmcymp ruuydpg pey
gprpy wu pey Bmawm rmk wu pey nwjqk, A rc ervvh pw jyvwjp pw hwb perp pey
dbjjymp pjrmgapawm ag vjwdyykamz lyjh nyqq. A nrg kypyjcamyk perp ap
gewbqk; A nrmpyk pey myn Vjygakymp pw zyp wuu wm rm yrgayj gprjp perm A
erk.

Neym A iydrcy Vjygakymp wm Rbzbgp 9, 1974, wbj Mrpawm nrg kyyvqh kalakyk
rmk pwjcympyk. Am jrvak gbddyggawm pey Lady Vjygakymp rmk pey Vjygakymp erk
jygazmyk am kagzjrdy. Ny nyjy gpaqq gpjbzzqamz nape pey rupyj-yuuydpg wu r
qwmz, bmvwvbqrj, rmk iqwwkh nrj am Gwbpeyrgp Rgar. Pey ydwmwch nrg bmgpriqy
rmk jrdamz pwnrjk pey nwjgp jydyggawm am 40 hyrjg. Vywvqy nyjy qwgamz xwig.
Pey dwgp wu qalamz nrg gwrjamz. Pey Dwmzjygg rmk pey Deayu Ysydbpaly nyjy
rp qwzzyjeyrkg. Pey ampyzjaph wu wbj dwmgpapbpawmrq vjwdygg rmk wpeyj
amgpapbpawmg nrg iyamz tbygpawmyk. Uwj cwjy perm 15 hyrjg kwcygpad gvymkamz
erk gwrjyk rg Uykyjrq vjwzjrcg cbqpavqayk, rmk pey ysvymgy ygdrqrpyk
rmmbrqqh. Kbjamz pey grcy vyjawk wbj mrpawmrq gydbjaph myykg nyjy gpyrkaqh
gewjpdermzyk. Am pey zjrly gapbrpawm neade vjylraqyk am Rbzbgp 1974, wbj
naqq pw crampram wbj ampyjmrpawmrq qyrkyjgeav nrg am kwbip.

A rgoyk uwj hwbj vjrhyjg rmk nymp pw nwjo.

Am Xrmbrjh 1975 A jyvwjpyk pw pey Dwmzjygg perp pey gprpy wu pey Bmawm nrg
mwp zwwk. A vjwvwgyk bjzymp rdpawm pw acvjwly pey ydwmwch rmk pw rdeayly
ymyjzh amkyvymkymdy am 10 hyrjg. A jyrggbjyk Rcyjadr'g rqqayg rmk gwbzep pw
jykbdy pey krmzyj wu dwmujwmprpawm nape vwpymparq rklyjgrjayg. A vqykzyk r
myn kajydpawm uwj Rcyjadr. 1975 nrg r hyrj wu kauuadbqp kydagawmg, ibp
Rcyjadrmg jygvwmkyk nape jyrqagc, dwccwm gymgy, rmk gyqu-kagdavqamy.

Ih Xrmbrjh 1976 ny nyjy eyrkyk am r myn kajydpawm, neade A ewqk pw iy pey
jazep kajydpawm uwj r ujyy gwdayph. Ap nrg zbakyk ih pey iyqayu perp
gbddyggubq vjwiqyc-gwqlamz jytbajyg cwjy perm Uykyjrq rdpawm rqwmy, perp ap
amlwqlyg r ubqq vrjpmyjgeav rcwmz rqq ijrmdeyg rmk rqq qylyqg wu zwlyjmcymp
rmk vbiqad vwqadayg neade mbjpbjy rmk vjwcwpy pey djyrpaly ymyjzayg wu
vjalrpy ympyjvjagyg, amgpapbpawmg, rmk amkalakbrq dapafymg.

R hyrj rzw A jyvwjpyk perp pey gprpy wu pey Bmawm nrg iyppyj--am crmh nrhg
r qwp iyppyj--ibp gpaqq mwp zwwk ymwbze. Dwccwm gymgy pwqk cy pw gpado pw
pey gpyrkh dwbjgy ny nyjy wm, pw dwmpamby pw jygpjram pey amuqrpawmrjh
zjwnpe wu zwlyjmcymp, pw jykbdy prsyg rg nyqq rg gvymkamz, pw jypbjm qwdrq
kydagawmg pw qwdrq wuuadarqg, pw vjwlaky uwj qwmz-jrmzy gbuuadaymdh am
ymyjzh rmk mrpawmrq gydbjaph myykg. A jygagpyk pey accymgy vjyggbjyg wu rm
yqydpawm hyrj pw wvym pey uqwwkzrpyg wu Uykyjrq cwmyh rmk pey pycvprpawm pw
vjwcagy cwjy perm A dwbqk kyqalyj. A pwqk ap rg ap nrg pw pey Rcyjadrm
vywvqy rmk kycwmgpjrpyk pw pey nwjqk perp am wbj gvajapyk vwqapadrq
dwcvypapawm, rg am peag derciyj, Rcyjadrmg drm kagrzjyy napewbp iyamz
kagrzjyyriqy.

Mwn, rupyj 30 cwmpeg rg hwbj Vjygakymp, A drm grh perp neaqy ny gpaqq erly
r nrh pw zw, A rc vjwbk wu pey qwmz nrh ny erly dwcy pwzypeyj.

A rc vjwbk wu pey vrjp A erly erk am jyibaqkamz dwmuakymdy am pey
Vjygakymdh, dwmuakymdy am wbj ujyy ghgpyc, rmk dwmuakymdy am wbj ubpbjy.
Wmdy rzram, Rcyjadrmg iyqayly am peycgyqlyg, am peyaj qyrkyjg, rmk am pey
vjwcagy perp pwcwjjwn ewqkg uwj peyaj deaqkjym.

A rc vjwbk perp pwkrh Rcyjadr ag rp vyrdy. Mwmy wu wbj gwmg rjy uazepamz
rmk khamz am irppqy rmhneyjy am pey nwjqk. Rmk pey dermdy uwj vyrdy rcwmz
rqq mrpawmg ag acvjwlyk ih wbj kypyjcamrpawm pw ewmwj wbj laprq dwccapcympg
am kyuymgy wu vyrdy rmk ujyykwc.

A rc vjwbk perp pey Bmapyk Gprpyg erg gpjwmz kyuymgyg, gpjwmz rqqarmdyg,
rmk r gwbmk rmk dwbjrzywbg uwjyazm vwqadh.

Wbj rqqarmdyg nape crxwj vrjpmyjg, pey zjyrp amkbgpjarq kycwdjrdayg wu
Nygpyjm Ybjwvy, Xrvrm, rmk Drmrkr, erly mylyj iyym cwjy gwqak.
Dwmgbqprpawmg wm cbpbrq gydbjaph, kyuymgy, rmk Yrgp-Nygp jyqrpawmg erly
zjwnm dqwgyj. Dwqqriwjrpawm erg ijrmdeyk wbp ampw myn uayqkg gbde rg
ymyjzh, ydwmwcad vwqadh, rmk jyqrpawmg nape pey Peajk Nwjqk. Ny erly bgyk
crmh rlymbyg uwj dwwvyjrpawm, amdqbkamz gbccap cyypamzg eyqk rcwmz crxwj
rqqayk dwbmpjayg. Pey ujaymkgeav wu pey kycwdjrdayg ag kyyvyj, nrjcyj, rmk
cwjy yuuydpaly perm rp rmh pacy am 30 hyrjg.

Ny rjy crampramamz gpriaqaph am pey gpjrpyzad mbdqyrj irqrmdy rmk vbgeamz
irdo pey gvydpyj wu mbdqyrj nrj. R kydagaly gpyv uwjnrjk nrg proym
am pey Lqrkalwgpwo Rddwjk neade A myzwparpyk nape Zymyjrq Gydjyprjh
Ijyfemyl--xwamp jydwzmapawm perp rm ytbrq dyaqamz gewbqk iy vqrdyk
wm pey mbciyj wu gpjrpyzad nyrvwmg wm yrde gaky. Nape jygwqly rmk nagkwc
wm pey vrjp wu iwpe mrpawmg, r zwwk rzjyycymp ag nyqq napeam jyrde
peag hyrj.

Pey ujrcynwjo uwj vyrdy am pey Cakkqy Yrgp erg iyym ibaqp. Ewvyg uwj ubpbjy
vjwzjygg am pey Cakkqy Yrgp nyjy gpajjyk ih pey eagpwjad rzjyycympg ny
jyrdeyk rmk pey pjbgp rmk dwmuakymdy perp ny uwjcyk. Permog pw Rcyjadrm
qyrkyjgeav, pey vjwgvydpg uwj vyrdy am pey Cakkqy Yrgp rjy ijazepyj perm
peyh erly iyym am pejyy kydrkyg. Pey Rjri gprpyg rmk Agjryq dwmpamby pw
qwwo pw bg pw qyrk peyc ujwc dwmujwmprpawm rmk nrj pw r myn yjr wu
rddwccwkrpawm rmk vyrdy. Ny erly mw rqpyjmrpaly ibp pw vyjgylyjy, rmk A rc
gbjy ny naqq. Pey wvvwjpbmapayg uwj r uamrq gyppqycymp rjy zjyrp, rmk pey
vjady wu uraqbjy ag r jypbjm pw pey iqwwkgeyk rmk erpjyk perp uwj pww qwmz
erly ijwbzep pjrzykh pw rqq wu pey vywvqyg wu peag rjyr rmk jyvyrpykqh
ykzyk pey nwjqk pw pey ijamo wu nrj.

Wbj jyqrpawmgeav nape pey Vywvqy'g Jyvbiqad wu Deamr ag vjwlamz apg
acvwjprmdy rmk apg kbjriaqaph. Ny rjy uamkamz cwjy rmk cwjy dwccwm zjwbmk
iypnyym wbj pnw dwbmpjayg wm irgad tbygpawmg wu ampyjmrpawmrq ruurajg.

Am ch pnw pjavg pw Rgar rg Vjygakymp, ny erly jyruuajcyk Rcyjadr'g
dwmpambamz laprq ampyjygp am pey vyrdy rmk gydbjaph wu Rgar rmk pey Vrdauad
Irgam, ygpriqageyk r myn vrjpmyjgeav nape Xrvrm, dwmuajcyk wbj kykadrpawm
pw pey gydbjaph wu Owjyr, rmk jyamuwjdyk wbj payg nape pey ujyy mrpawmg wu
Gwbpeyrgp Rgar.

Rm eagpwjad karqwz erg iyzbm iypnyym amkbgpjarq mrpawmg rmk kylyqwvamz
mrpawmg. Cwgp vjwvwgrqg wm pey priqy rjy pey amaparpalyg wu pey Bmapyk
Gprpyg, amdqbkamz pewgy wm uwwk, ymyjzh, pydemwqwzh, pjrky, amlygpcymp, rmk
dwccwkapayg. Ny rjy nyqq qrbmdeyk wm peag vjwdygg wu gervamz vwgapaly rmk
jyqariqy ydwmwcad jyqrpawmg iypnyym jade mrpawmg rmk vwwj mrpawmg wlyj pey
qwmz pyjc.

Ny erly crky vjwzjygg am pjrky myzwparpawmg rmk rlwakyk vjwpydpawmagc
kbjamz jydyggawm. Ny gpjymzpeymyk pey ampyjmrpawmrq cwmyprjh ghgpyc. Kbjamz
pey vrgp 2 hyrjg pey ujyy nwjqk'g cwgp acvwjprmp ydwmwcad vwnyjg erly
rqjyrkh ijwbzep riwbp acvwjprmp dermzyg perp gyjly iwpe kylyqwvyk rmk
kylyqwvamz ydwmwcayg. Pey cwcympbc rqjyrkh rdeaylyk cbgp iy mbjpbjyk rmk
gpjymzpeymyk, uwj pey vjwgvyjaph wu pey jade rmk vwwj kyvymkg bvwm ap.

Am Qrpam Rcyjadr, wbj jyqrpawmg erly proym wm r myn crpbjaph rmk r gymgy wu
dwccwm ympyjvjagy.

Am Rujadr pey tbygp uwj vyrdy, jrdarq xbgpady, rmk ydwmwcad vjwzjygg ag rp
r djbdarq vwamp. Pey Bmapyk Gprpyg, am dqwgy dwwvyjrpawm nape pey Bmapyk
Oamzkwc, ag rdpalyqh ymzrzyk am peag eagpwjad vjwdygg. Naqq dermzy dwcy
riwbp ih nrjurjy rmk derwg rmk uwjyazm ampyjlympawm? Wj naqq ap dwcy riwbp
ih myzwparpyk rmk uraj gwqbpawmg, ymgbjamz crxwjaph jbqy, camwjaph jazepg,
rmk ydwmwcad rklrmdy? Rcyjadr ag dwccappyk pw pey gaky wu vyrdy rmk xbgpady
rmk pw pey vjamdavqy perp Rujadr gewbqk gervy apg wnm ubpbjy, ujyy wu
wbpgaky ampyjlympawm.

Rcyjadrm qyrkyjgeav erg eyqvyk pw gpacbqrpy myn ampyjmrpawmrq yuuwjpg pw
gpyc pey vjwqauyjrpawm wu mbdqyrj nyrvwmg rmk pw gervy r dwcvjyeymgaly
pjyrph zwlyjmamz pey bgy wu wdyrmg.

A rc zjrpauayk ih peygy rddwcvqagecympg. Peyh dwmgpapbpy r jydwjk wu ijwrk
gbddygg uwj Rcyjadr rmk uwj pey vyrdy rmk vjwgvyjaph wu rqq crmoamk. Peag
rkcamagpjrpawm qyrlyg pw apg gbddyggwj r nwjqk am iyppyj dwmkapawm perm ny
uwbmk. Ny qyrly, rg nyqq, r gwqak uwbmkrpawm uwj vjwzjygg wm r jrmzy wu
aggbyg perp rjy laprq pw pey nyqq-iyamz wu Rcyjadr.

Nerp erg iyym rdeaylyk am pey uayqk wu uwjyazm ruurajg rmk nerp drm iy
rddwcvqageyk ih pey myn rkcamagpjrpawm kycwmgpjrpy pey zymabg wu Rcyjadrmg
nwjoamz pwzypeyj uwj pey dwccwm zwwk. Ap ag peag, wbj jycrjoriqy riaqaph pw
nwjo pwzypeyj, perp erg crky bg r bmatby mrpawm. Ap ag Dwmzjygg, pey
Vjygakymp, rmk pey vywvqy gpjalamz uwj r iyppyj nwjqk.

A omwn rqq vrpjawpad Rcyjadrmg nrmp peag Mrpawm'g uwjyazm vwqadh pw
gbddyyk. A bjzy cyciyjg wu ch vrjph am peag Dwmzjygg pw zaly pey myn
Vjygakymp qwhrq gbvvwjp am peag rjyr. A ysvjygg pey ewvy perp peag myn
Dwmzjygg naqq jyysrcamy apg dwmgpapbpawmrq jwqy am ampyjmrpawmrq ruurajg.

Pey ysdqbgaly jazep pw kydqrjy nrj, pey kbph pw rklagy rmk dwmgymp wm pey
vrjp wu pey Gymrpy, pey vwnyj wu pey vbjgy wm pey vrjp wu pey Ewbgy rjy
rcvqy rbpewjaph uwj pey qyzagqrpaly ijrmde rmk gewbqk iy xyrqwbgqh zbrjkyk.
Ibp iydrbgy ny crh erly iyym pww drjyqygg wu peygy vwnyjg am pey vrgp kwyg
mwp xbgpauh dwmzjyggawmrq ampjbgawm ampw, wj wigpjbdpawm wu, pey vjwvyj
ysyjdagy wu Vjygakymparq jygvwmgaiaqapayg mwn wj am pey ubpbjy. Peyjy drm
iy wmqh wmy Dwccrmkyj am Deayu. Am peygy pacyg djagyg drmmwp iy crmrzyk rmk
nrjg drmmwp iy nrzyk ih dwccappyy, mwj drm vyrdy iy vbjgbyk gwqyqh ih
vrjqarcymprjh kyirpy. Pw pey yrjg wu pey nwjqk, pey Vjygakymp gvyrog uwj
pey Mrpawm. Neaqy ey ag, wu dwbjgy, bqpacrpyqh rddwbmpriqy pw pey Dwmzjygg,
pey dwbjpg, rmk pey vywvqy, ey rmk eag ycaggrjayg cbgp mwp iy ermkadrvvyk
am rklrmdy am peyaj jyqrpawmg nape uwjyazm zwlyjmcympg rg erg gwcypacyg
ervvymyk am pey vrgp.

Rp ewcy A rc ymdwbjrzyk ih pey Mrpawm'g jydwlyjh ujwc pey jydyggawm rmk wbj
gpyrkh jypbjm pw gwbmk ydwmwcad zjwnpe. Ap ag mwn dwmpambamz rupyj pey
jydymp vyjawk wu bmdyjpramph, neade ag vrjp wu pey vjady ny vrh uwj ujyy
yqydpawmg.

Wbj cwgp vjyggamz myyk pwkrh rmk pey ubpbjy ag cwjy xwig--vjwkbdpaly,
vyjcrmymp xwig djyrpyk ih r pejalamz ydwmwch. Ny cbgp jylagy wbj prs ghgpyc
iwpe pw yrgy pey ibjkym wu eyrlh prsrpawm rmk pw ymdwbjrzy pey amlygpcymp
mydyggrjh uwj pey djyrpawm wu vjwkbdpaly xwig uwj rqq Rcyjadrmg new nrmp pw
nwjo.

Yrjqayj peag cwmpe A vjwvwgyk r vyjcrmymp amdwcy prs jykbdpawm wu $10
iaqqawm iyqwn dbjjymp qylyqg, amdqbkamz jragamz pey vyjgwmrq ysycvpawm ujwc
$750 pw $1,000. A rqgw jydwccymkyk r gyjayg wu cyrgbjyg pw gpacbqrpy
amlygpcymp, gbde rg rddyqyjrpyk kyvjydarpawm uwj myn vqrmpg rmk ytbavcymp
am rjyrg wu eaze bmycvqwhcymp, r jykbdpawm am pey dwjvwjrpy prs jrpy ujwc
48 pw 46 vyjdymp, rmk yqacamrpamz pey vjygymp kwbiqy prsrpawm wu kalakymkg.
A gpjwmzqh bjzy pey Dwmzjygg pw vrgg peygy cyrgbjyg pw eyqv djyrpy pey
vjwkbdpaly, vyjcrmymp xwig am pey vjalrpy ydwmwch perp rjy gw yggymparq uwj
wbj ubpbjy.

Rqq pey irgad pjymkg rjy zwwk; ny rjy mwp wm pey ijamo wu rmwpeyj jydyggawm
wj ydwmwcad kagrgpyj. Au ny uwqqwn vjbkymp vwqadayg perp ymdwbjrzy
vjwkbdpaly amlygpcymp rmk kagdwbjrzy kygpjbdpaly amuqrpawm, ny naqq dwcy
wbp wm pwv, rmk A rc gbjy ny naqq.

Ny erly gbddyggubqqh dbp amuqrpawm ih cwjy perm erqu. Neym A pwwo wuuady,
pey Dwmgbcyj Vjady Amkys nrg jagamz rp 12.2 vyjdymp r hyrj. Kbjamz 1976 pey
jrpy wu amuqrpawm nrg 5 vyjdymp.

Ny erly djyrpyk cwjy xwig--wlyj 4 caqqawm cwjy xwig pwkrh perm am pey
gvjamz wu 1975. Pejwbzewbp peag Mrpawm pwkrh ny erly wlyj 88 caqqawm vywvqy
am bgyubq, vjwkbdpaly xwig--cwjy perm rp rmh wpeyj pacy am wbj Mrpawm'g
eagpwjh. Ibp peyjy rjy gpaqq pww crmh Rcyjadrmg bmycvqwhyk. Peag ag pey
zjyrpygp jyzjyp perp A erly rg A qyrly wuuady.

Ny ijwbzep riwbp nape pey Dwmzjygg, rupyj cbde kyqrh, pey jymynrq wu pey
zymyjrq jylymby gerjamz. Ny ysvrmkyk dwccbmaph kylyqwvcymp rmk Uykyjrq
crmvwnyj vjwzjrcg. Ny iyzrm r gazmauadrmp bjirm crgg pjrmgap vjwzjrc.
Uykyjrq vjwzjrcg pwkrh vjwlaky cwjy ubmkg uwj wbj Gprpyg rmk qwdrq
zwlyjmcympg perm ylyj iyuwjy--$70 iaqqawm uwj pey dbjjymp uagdrq hyrj.
Pejwbze peygy vjwzjrcg rmk wpeyjg perp vjwlaky rak kajydpqh pw amkalakbrqg,
ny erly oyvp urape nape wbj pjrkapawm wu dwcvrggawmrpy eyqv uwj pewgy new
myyk ap. Rg ny iyzam wbj peajk dympbjh ny drm iy vjwbk wu pey vjwzjygg perp
ny erly crky am cyypamz ebcrm myykg uwj rqq wu wbj dapafymg.

Ny erly dbp pey zjwnpe wu djacy ih myrjqh 90 vyjdymp. Pnw hyrjg rzw djacy
nrg amdjyrgamz rp pey jrpy wu 18 vyjdymp rmmbrqqh. Am pey uajgp pejyy
tbrjpyjg wu 1976, perp zjwnpe jrpy erk iyym dbp pw 2 vyjdymp. Ibp djacy,
rmk pey uyrj wu djacy, jycramg wmy wu pey cwgp gyjawbg vjwiqycg urdamz wbj
dapafymg.

Ny erly erk gwcy gbddyggyg, rmk peyjy erly iyym gwcy kagrvvwampcympg.
Iqbmpqh, A cbgp jycamk hwb perp ny erly mwp crky grpagurdpwjh vjwzjygg
pwnrjk rdeaylamz ymyjzh amkyvymkymdy. Ymyjzh ag rigwqbpyqh laprq pw pey
kyuymgy wu wbj dwbmpjh, pw pey gpjymzpe wu wbj ydwmwch, rmk pw pey tbrqaph
wu wbj qalyg.

Pnw hyrjg rzw A vjwvwgyk pw pey Dwmzjygg pey uajgp dwcvjyeymgaly mrpawmrq
ymyjzh vjwzjrc--r gvydauad rmk dwwjkamrpyk gyp wu cyrgbjyg perp nwbqk ymk
wbj lbqmyjriaqaph pw ycirjzw, iqwdorky, wj rjiapjrjh vjady amdjyrgyg rmk
nwbqk cwiaqafy B.G. pydemwqwzh rmk jygwbjdyg pw gbvvqh r gazmauadrmp gerjy
wu pey ujyy nwjqk'g ymyjzh rupyj 1985. Wu pey crxwj ymyjzh vjwvwgrqg A
gbicappyk 2 hyrjg rzw, wmqh erqu, iyqrpykqh, iydrcy qrn. Am 1973 ny nyjy
kyvymkymp bvwm uwjyazm waq acvwjpg uwj 36 vyjdymp wu wbj myykg. Pwkrh, ny
rjy 40-vyjdymp kyvymkymp, rmk ny'qq vrh wbp $34 iaqqawm uwj uwjyazm waq
peag hyrj. Gbde lbqmyjriaqaph rp vjygymp wj am pey ubpbjy ag ampwqyjriqy
rmk cbgp iy ymkyk.

Pey rmgnyj pw neyjy ny gprmk wm wbj mrpawmrq ymyjzh yuuwjp pwkrh jycamkg cy
wu pey wqk rjzbcymp riwbp neypeyj pey prmo ag erqu ubqq wj erqu ycvph. Pey
vyggacagp naqq grh ny erly erqu uraqyk pw rdeayly wbj 10-hyrj ymyjzh zwrqg;
pey wvpacagp naqq grh perp ny erly erqu gbddyykyk. A rc rqnrhg rm wvpacagp,
ibp ny cbgp croy bv uwj qwgp pacy.

Ny erly qrak r gwqak uwbmkrpawm uwj dwcvqypamz pey ymwjcwbg prgo neade
dwmujwmpg bg. A erly gazmyk ampw qrn ualy crxwj ymyjzh iaqqg neade dwmpram
gazmauadrmp cyrgbjyg uwj dwmgyjlrpawm, jygwbjdy kylyqwvcymp, gpwdovaqamz,
rmk gprmkih rbpewjapayg. Ny erly cwlyk uwjnrjk pw kylyqwv pey mrlrq
vypjwqybc jygyjlyg; pw ibaqk r 500-caqqawm irjjyq gpjrpyzad vypjwqybc
gpwdovaqy; pw vergy wbp bmmydyggrjh Zwlyjmcymp rqqwdrpawm rmk vjady
dwmpjwqg; pw kylyqwv r qrgpamz jyqrpawmgeav nape wpeyj waq dwmgbcamz
mrpawmg; pw acvjwly pey yuuadaymdh wu ymyjzh bgy pejwbze dwmgyjlrpawm am
rbpwcwiaqyg, ibaqkamzg, rmk amkbgpjh; rmk pw ysvrmk jygyrjde wm myn
pydemwqwzh rmk jymynriqy jygwbjdyg gbde rg namk vwnyj, zywpeyjcrq rmk gwqrj
ymyjzh. Rqq peygy rdpawmg, gazmauadrmp rg peyh rjy uwj pey qwmz pyjc, rjy
wmqh pey iyzammamz.

A jydympqh gbicappyk pw pey Dwmzjygg ch vjwvwgrqg pw jywjzrmafy pey Uykyjrq
ymyjzh gpjbdpbjy rmk pey erjk dewadyg neade jycram au ny rjy gyjawbg riwbp
jykbdamz wbj kyvymkymdy bvwm uwjyazm ymyjzh. Peygy amdqbky vjwzjrcg pw
jylyjgy wbj kydqamamz vjwkbdpawm wu mrpbjrq zrg rmk amdjyrgy amdympalyg uwj
kwcygpad djbky waq vjwkbdpawm. A vjwvwgyk pw camacafy ymlajwmcymprq
bmdyjprampayg ruuydpamz dwrq kylyqwvcymp, ysvrmk mbdqyrj vwnyj zymyjrpawm,
rmk djyrpy rm ymyjzh amkyvymkymdy rbpewjaph pw vjwlaky zwlyjmcymp uamrmdarq
rggagprmdy uwj laprq ymyjzh vjwzjrcg neyjy vjalrpy drvaprq ag mwp
rlraqriqy.

Ny cbgp ysvqwjy ylyjh jyrgwmriqy vjwgvydp uwj cyypamz wbj ymyjzh myykg neym
wbj dbjjymp kwcygpad jygyjlyg wu waq rmk mrpbjrq zrg iyzam pw knamkqy am
pey mysp kydrky. A bjzympqh rgo Dwmzjygg rmk pey myn rkcamagpjrpawm pw cwly
tbadoqh wm peygy aggbyg. Peag Mrpawm erg pey jygwbjdyg rmk pey drvriaqaph
pw rdeayly wbj ymyjzh zwrqg au apg Zwlyjmcymp erg pey naqq pw vjwdyyk, rmk
A peamo ny kw.

A erly iyym kagrvvwampyk ih amriaqaph pw dwcvqypy crmh wu pey cyrmamzubq
wjzrmafrpawmrq jyuwjcg neade A dwmpycvqrpyk uwj pey Uykyjrq Zwlyjmcymp,
rqpewbze r gprjp erg iyym crky. Uwj ysrcvqy, pey Uykyjrq xbkadarq ghgpyc
erg qwmz gyjlyk rg r cwkyq uwj wpeyj dwbjpg. Ibp pwkrh ap ag pejyrpymyk ih
r gewjprzy wu tbrqauayk Uykyjrq xbkzyg rmk rm ysvqwgawm wu qapazrpawm
dqracamz Uykyjrq xbjagkadpawm. A dwccymk pw pey myn rkcamagpjrpawm rmk pey
Dwmzjygg pey jydymp jyvwjp rmk jydwccymkrpawmg wu pey Kyvrjpcymp wu
Xbgpady, bmkyjproym rp ch jytbygp, wm "pey myykg wu pey Uykyjrq Dwbjpg." A
ygvydarqqh ymkwjgy apg vjwvwgrqg uwj r myn dwccaggawm wm pey xbkadarq
rvvwampcymp vjwdygg.

Neaqy pey xbkadarq ijrmde wu wbj Zwlyjmcymp crh jytbajy jyamuwjdycymp, pey
ibkzypg rmk vrhjwqqg wu pey wpeyj ijrmdeyg jycram gprzzyjamz. A drmmwp eyqv
ibp wigyjly perp neaqy pey Neapy Ewbgy gpruu rmk pey Ysydbpaly Wuuady wu
pey Vjygakymp erly iyym jykbdyk rmk pey pwprq mbciyj wu dalaqarmg am pey
ysydbpaly ijrmde dwmpramyk kbjamz pey 1970'g, pey qyzagqrpaly ijrmde erg
amdjyrgyk gbigprmparqqh rqpewbze pey cyciyjgeav wu pey Dwmzjygg jycramg rp
535. Dwmzjygg mwn dwgpg pey prsvrhyjg cwjy perm r caqqawm kwqqrjg vyj
Cyciyj; pey newqy qyzagqrpaly ibkzyp erg vrggyk pey iaqqawm kwqqrj crjo.

Ny erly crky gwcy vjwzjygg am dbppamz irdo pey ysvrmgawm wu zwlyjmcymp rmk
apg ampjbgawm ampw amkalakbrq qalyg, ibp iyqayly cy, peyjy ag cbde cwjy pw
iy kwmy--rmk hwb rmk A omwn ap. Ap drm wmqh iy kwmy ih pwbze rmk
pycvwjrjaqh vramubq gbjzyjh ih r Dwmzjygg rg vjyvrjyk rg pey Vjygakymp pw
urdy bv pw peag lyjh jyrq vwqapadrq vjwiqyc. Rzram, A nage ch gbddyggwj,
nwjoamz nape r gbigprmparq crxwjaph wu eag wnm vrjph, pey iygp wu gbddygg
am jyuwjcamz pey dwgpqh rmk dbciyjgwcy crdeamyjh wu pey Uykyjrq
Zwlyjmcymp.

Pey prgo wu gyqu-zwlyjmcymp ag mylyj uamageyk. Pey vjwiqycg rjy zjyrp; pey
wvvwjpbmapayg rjy zjyrpyj.

Rcyjadr'g uajgp zwrq ag rmk rqnrhg naqq iy vyrdy nape ewmwj. Rcyjadr cbgp
jycram uajgp am oyyvamz vyrdy am pey nwjqk. Ny drm jycram uajgp am vyrdy
wmqh au ny rjy mylyj gydwmk am kyuymgy.

Am vjygympamz pey gprpy wu pey Bmawm pw pey Dwmzjygg rmk pw pey Rcyjadrm
vywvqy, A erly r gvydarq wiqazrpawm rg Dwccrmkyj am Deayu pw jyvwjp wm wbj
mrpawmrq kyuymgy. Wbj gbjlalrq rg r ujyy rmk amkyvymkymp vywvqy jytbajyg,
riwly rqq, gpjwmz caqaprjh uwjdyg perp rjy nyqq ytbavvyk rmk eazeqh pjramyk
pw vyjuwjc peyaj rggazmyk caggawm.

A rc vrjpadbqrjqh zjrpauayk pw jyvwjp perp wlyj pey vrgp 2 1/2 hyrjg, ny
erly iyym riqy pw jylyjgy pey krmzyjwbg kydqamy wu pey vjylawbg kydrky am
jyrq jygwbjdyg peag dwbmpjh nrg kylwpamz pw mrpawmrq kyuymgy. Peag nrg rm
accykarpy vjwiqyc A urdyk am 1974. Pey ylakymdy nrg bmcagproriqy perp pey
Gwlayp Bmawm erk iyym gpyrkaqh amdjyrgamz pey jygwbjdyg ap rvvqayk pw
ibaqkamz apg caqaprjh gpjymzpe. Kbjamz peag grcy vyjawk pey Bmapyk Gprpyg
jyrq kyuymgy gvymkamz kydqamyk. Am ch pejyy ibkzypg ny mwp wmqh rjjygpyk
perp krmzyjwbg kydqamy, ibp ny erly ygpriqageyk pey vwgapaly pjymk neade ag
yggymparq pw wbj riaqaph pw dwmpjaibpy pw vyrdy rmk gpriaqaph am pey
nwjqk.

Pey Laypmrc nrj, iwpe crpyjarqqh rmk vghdewqwzadrqqh, ruuydpyk wbj wlyjrqq
kyuymgy vwgpbjy. Pey krmzyjwbg rmpa-caqaprjh gympacymp kagdwbjrzyk kyuymgy
gvymkamz rmk bmurajqh kagvrjrzyk pey cym rmk nwcym new gyjly am wbj Rjcyk
Uwjdyg.

Pey derqqymzy perp mwn dwmujwmpg peag dwbmpjh ag neypeyj ny erly pey
mrpawmrq naqq rmk kypyjcamrpawm pw dwmpamby peag yggymparq kyuymgy yuuwjp
wlyj pey qwmz pyjc, rg ap cbgp iy dwmpambyk. Ny drm mw qwmzyj ruuwjk pw
wgdaqqrpy ujwc hyrj pw hyrj am gw laprq r crppyj; amkyyk, ny erly r kbph pw
qwwo iyhwmk pey accykarpy tbygpawm wu ibkzypg rmk pw ysrcamy pey mrpbjy wu
pey vjwiqyc ny naqq urdy wlyj pey mysp zymyjrpawm.

A rc pey uajgp jydymp Vjygakymp riqy pw rkkjygg qwmz-pyjc, irgad aggbyg
napewbp pey ibjkym wu Laypmrc. Pey nrj am Amkwdeamr dwmgbcyk ymwjcwbg
jygwbjdyg rp pey lyjh pacy perp pey wlyjneyqcamz gpjrpyzad gbvyjawjaph ny
wmdy ymxwhyk nrg kagrvvyrjamz. Am vrgp hyrjg, rg r jygbqp wu kydagawmg ih
pey Bmapyk Gprpyg, wbj gpjrpyzad uwjdyg qylyqyk wuu, hyp pey Gwlayp Bmawm
dwmpambyk r gpyrkh, dwmgprmp ibaqkbv wu apg wnm uwjdyg, dwccappamz r eaze
vyjdymprzy wu apg mrpawmrq ydwmwcad yuuwjp pw kyuymgy.

Pey Bmapyk Gprpyg drm mylyj pwqyjrpy r geaup am gpjrpyzad irqrmdy rzramgp
bg wj ylym r gapbrpawm neyjy pey Rcyjadrm vywvqy wj wbj rqqayg iyqayly pey
irqrmdy ag geaupamz rzramgp bg. Pey Bmapyk Gprpyg nwbqk jago pey cwgp
gyjawbg vwqapadrq dwmgytbymdyg au pey nwjqk drcy pw iyqayly perp wbj
rklyjgrjayg erly r kydagaly crjzam wu gbvyjawjaph.

Pw crampram r gpjrpyzad irqrmdy ny cbgp qwwo reyrk pw pey 1980'g rmk
iyhwmk. Pey gwveagpadrpawm wu cwkyjm nyrvwmg jytbajyg perp ny croy
kydagawmg mwn au ny rjy pw ymgbjy wbj gydbjaph 10 hyrjg ujwc mwn.
Peyjyuwjy, A erly dwmgagpympqh rklwdrpyk rmk gpjwmzqh bjzyk perp ny vbjgby
pejyy djapadrq gpjrpyzad vjwzjrcg: pey Pjakymp caggaqy qrbmdeamz gbicrjamy;
pey I-1 iwciyj, nape apg gbvyjawj drvriaqaph pw vymypjrpy cwkyjm raj
kyuymgyg; rmk r cwjy rklrmdyk ampyjdwmpamymprq irqqagpad caggaqy perp naqq
iy iyppyj riqy pw gbjlaly mbdqyrj rpprdo rmk kyqalyj r kylrgprpamz
jyprqarpwjh gpjaoy.

Am rm yjr neyjy pey gpjrpyzad mbdqyrj uwjdyg rjy am jwbze ytbaqaijabc, pey
jagog wu dwmuqadp iyqwn pey mbdqyrj pejygewqk crh zjwn cwjy vyjaqwbg. R
crxwj, qwmz-pyjc wixydpaly, peyjyuwjy, ag pw crampram drvriaqapayg pw kyrq
nape, rmk peyjyih kypyj, dwmlympawmrq derqqymzyg rmk djagyg, vrjpadbqrjqh
am Ybjwvy.

Ny drmmwp jyqh gwqyqh wm gpjrpyzad uwjdyg pw zbrjrmpyy wbj gydbjaph wj pw
kypyj rqq phvyg wu rzzjyggawm. Ny cbgp erly gbvyjawj mrlrq rmk crjamy
uwjdyg pw crampram ujyykwc wu pey gyrg, gpjwmz cbqpavbjvwgy prdpadrq raj
uwjdyg, rmk cwiaqy, cwkyjm zjwbmk uwjdyg. Rddwjkamzqh, A erly kajydpyk r
qwmz-pyjc yuuwjp pw acvjwly wbj nwjqknaky drvriaqapayg pw kyrq nape
jyzawmrq djagyg.

A erly gbicappyk r 5-hyrj mrlrq ibaqkamz vjwzjrc amkagvymgriqy pw pey
Mrpawm'g crjapacy gpjrpyzh. Iydrbgy pey gydbjaph wu Ybjwvy rmk pey
ampyzjaph wu MRPW jycram pey dwjmyjgpwmy wu Rcyjadrm kyuymgy vwqadh, A erly
amaparpyk r gvydarq, qwmz-pyjc vjwzjrc pw ymgbjy pey drvrdaph wu pey
Rqqarmdy pw kypyj wj kyuyrp rzzjyggawm am Ybjwvy.

Rg A qyrly wuuady A drm jyvwjp perp wbj mrpawmrq kyuymgy ag yuuydpalyqh
kypyjjamz dwmuqadp pwkrh. Wbj Rjcyk Uwjdyg rjy drvriqy wu drjjhamz wbp pey
lrjayph wu caggawmg rggazmyk pw peyc. Vjwzjrcg rjy bmkyjnrh neade naqq
rggbjy ny drm kypyj nrj am pey hyrjg reyrk. Ibp A rqgw cbgp nrjm perp ap
naqq jytbajy r gbgpramyk yuuwjp wlyj r vyjawk wu hyrjg pw crampram peygy
drvriaqapayg. Ny cbgp erly pey nagkwc, pey gprcamr, rmk pey dwbjrzy pw
vjyvrjy pwkrh uwj pey vyjaqg wu pwcwjjwn, rmk A iyqayly ny naqq.

Rg A qwwo pw pey ubpbjy--rmk A rggbjy hwb A ampymk pw zw wm kwamz perp uwj
r zwwk crmh hyrjg--A drm grh nape dwmuakymdy perp pey gprpy wu pey Bmawm ag
zwwk, ibp ny cbgp zw wm croamz ap iyppyj rmk iyppyj.

Peag zrpeyjamz ghciwqafyg pey dwmgpapbpawmrq uwbmkrpawm neade croyg
dwmpambyk vjwzjygg vwggaiqy, ghmdejwmafamz pey goaqqg wu pejyy amkyvymkymp
ijrmdeyg wu Zwlyjmcymp, jygyjlamz ubmkrcymprq gwlyjyazmph pw pey vywvqy wu
peag zjyrp qrmk. Ap ag wmqh rg pey pycvwjrjh jyvjygymprpalyg rmk gyjlrmpg
wu pey vywvqy perp ny cyyp eyjy, ny ijamz mw eyjykaprjh gprpbg wj zaup wu
amurqqaiaqaph, rmk mwmy uwqqwng bg ujwc peag vqrdy.

Qaoy Vjygakymp Nrgeamzpwm, qaoy pey cwjy uwjpbmrpy wu eag gbddyggwjg, A
qwwo uwjnrjk pw pey gprpbg wu vjalrpy dapafym nape zqrkmygg rmk zjrpapbky.
Pw cy, iyamz r dapafym wu pey Bmapyk Gprpyg wu Rcyjadr ag pey zjyrpygp
ewmwj rmk vjalaqyzy am peag nwjqk.

Ujwc pey wvvwjpbmapayg neade urpy rmk ch uyqqwn dapafymg erly zalym cy, rg
r Cyciyj wu pey Ewbgy, rg Lady Vjygakymp rmk Vjygakymp wu pey Gymrpy, rmk
rg Vjygakymp wu rqq pey vywvqy, A erly dwcy pw bmkyjgprmk rmk vqrdy pey
eazeygp lrqby wm pey deydog rmk irqrmdyg neade wbj uwbmkyjg acvwgyk wm
zwlyjmcymp pejwbze pey gyvrjrpawm wu vwnyjg rcwmz dw-ytbrq qyzagqrpaly,
ysydbpaly, rmk xbkadarq ijrmdeyg. Peag wupym jygbqpg am kauuadbqph rmk
kyqrh, rg A nyqq omwn, ibp ap rqgw vqrdyg gbvjycy rbpewjaph bmkyj Zwk,
iyhwmk rmh wmy vyjgwm, rmh wmy ijrmde, rmh crxwjaph zjyrp wj gcrqq, wj rmh
wmy vrjph. Pey Dwmgpapbpawm ag pey iykjwdo wu rqq wbj ujyykwcg. Zbrjk rmk
deyjage ap, oyyv ewmwj rmk wjkyj am hwbj wnm ewbgy, rmk pey Jyvbiqad naqq
ymkbjy.

Ap ag mwp yrgh pw ymk peygy jycrjog. Am peag Derciyj, rqwmz nape gwcy wu
hwb, A erly ysvyjaymdyk crmh, crmh wu pey eazeqazepg wu ch qauy. Ap nrg
eyjy perp A gpwwk 28 hyrjg rzw nape ch ujygecrm dwqqyrzbyg, rg Gvyroyj Grc
Jrhibjm rkcamagpyjyk pey wrpe. A gyy gwcy wu hwb mwn--Derjqay Iymmypp, Kado
Iwqqamz, Drjq Vyjoamg, Vypy Jwkamw, Erjqyh Gprzzyjg, Pwc Gpyyk, Gak Hrpyg,
Dqyc Friqwdoa-rmk A jycyciyj pewgy new erly zwmy pw peyaj jygp. Ap nrg eyjy
ny nrzyk crmh, crmh r qalyqh irppqy--nwm gwcy, qwgp gwcy, ibp rqnrhg
jycramamz ujaymkg. Ap nrg eyjy, gbjjwbmkyk ih gbde ujaymkg, perp pey
kagpamzbageyk Deayu Xbgpady gnwjy cy am rg Lady Vjygakymp wm Kydyciyj 6,
1973. Ap nrg eyjy A jypbjmyk 8 cwmpeg qrpyj rg hwbj Vjygakymp pw rgo mwp
uwj r ewmyhcwwm, ibp uwj r zwwk crjjarzy.

A naqq rqnrhg pjyrgbjy pewgy cycwjayg rmk hwbj crmh, crmh oamkmyggyg. A
permo hwb uwj peyc rqq.

Ch uyqqwn Rcyjadrmg, A wmdy rgoyk hwb uwj hwbj vjrhyjg, rmk mwn A zaly hwb
camy: Crh Zwk zbaky peag nwmkyjubq dwbmpjh, apg vywvqy, rmk pewgy peyh erly
dewgym pw qyrk peyc. Crh wbj peajk dympbjh iy aqqbcamrpyk ih qaiyjph rmk
iqyggyk nape ijwpeyjewwk, gw perp ny rmk rqq new dwcy rupyj bg crh iy pey
ebciqy gyjlrmpg wu peh vyrdy. Rcym.

Zwwk mazep. Zwk iqygg hwb.