Rt. Ocewvet, Rt. Sjze Cteojkenx, Reryeto pu xbe 94xb Zpniteoo, wnk
kjoxjnigjobek igeoxo:

Xfenxh-ojm hewto wip, w uteobrwn Zpniteoorwn, w hpgni uellpf fjxb lpxo pu
jkewljor fbp fwo pgx xp zbwnie xbe fptlk, oxppk yeupte Owr Twhygtn jn xbe
fell pu xbe Bpgoe wnk oplernlh ofpte xp xbe owre pwxb xbwx wll pu hpg xppv
heoxetkwh--wn gnuptiexxwyle emcetjenze, wnk J zpnitwxglwxe hpg wll.

Xfp kwho lwxet, xbwx owre uteobrwn oxppk wx xbe ywzv pu xbjo itewx
Zbwryet--pset xbete opreclwze--wo Cteojkenx Xtgrwn, wll zbwtiek gc yh bjo
ojnile-bwnkek elezxjpn sjzxpth, tecptxek wo xbe Zpnoxjxgxjpn teagjteo pn
xbe oxwxe pu xbe Gnjpn.

Fben xbe yjcwtxjown wcclwgoe oxpccek, Cteojkenx Xtgrwn owjk, "J wr bwcch xp
tecptx xp xbjo 81ox Zpniteoo xbwx xbe oxwxe pu xbe Gnjpn jo ippk. Pgt
Nwxjpn jo yexxet wyle xbwn eset yeupte xp reex xbe neeko pu xbe Wretjzwn
cepcle, wnk xp ijse xber xbejt uwjt zbwnze jn xbe cgtogjx pu bwccjneoo.
[Jx] jo upterpox wrpni xbe nwxjpno pu xbe fptlk jn xbe oewtzb upt cewze."

Xpkwh, xbwx uteobrwn Reryet utpr Rjzbjiwn oxwnko fbete Rt. Xtgrwn
oxppk, wnk J rgox owh xp hpg xbwx xbe oxwxe pu xbe Gnjpn jo npx ippk:

Rjlljpno pu Wretjzwno wte pgx pu fptv.

Tezeoojpn wnk jnulwxjpn wte etpkjni xbe rpneh pu rjlljpno rpte.

Ctjzeo wte xpp bjib, wnk owleo wte xpp olpf.

Xbjo hewt'o Ueketwl keujzjx fjll ye wypgx $30 yjlljpn; nemx hewt'o ctpywylh
$45 yjlljpn.

Xbe nwxjpnwl keyx fjll tjoe xp pset $500 yjlljpn.

Pgt clwnx zwcwzjxh wnk ctpkgzxjsjxh wte npx jnztewojni uwox enpgib.

Fe kecenk pn pxbeto upt eooenxjwl enetih.

Opre cepcle ageoxjpn xbejt Ipsetnrenx'o wyjljxh xp rwve bwtk kezjojpno wnk
oxjzv fjxb xber; xbeh emcezx Fwobjnixpn cpljxjzo wo gogwl.

Hex, fbwx Cteojkenx Xtgrwn owjk pn Qwngwth 5, 1949, jo esen rpte xtge jn
1975. Fe wte yexxet wyle xp reex pgt cepcle'o neeko. Wll Wretjzwno kp bwse
w uwjtet zbwnze xp cgtoge bwccjneoo. Npx pnlh wte fe oxjll xbe upterpox
nwxjpn jn xbe cgtogjx pu cewze ygx xpkwh'o ctpocezxo pu wxxwjnjni jx wte
jnujnjxelh ytjibxet.

Xbete fete 59 rjlljpn Wretjzwno erclphek wx xbe oxwtx pu 1949; npf xbete
wte rpte xbwn 85 rjlljpn Wretjzwno fbp bwse qpyo. Jn zprcwtwyle kpllwto,
xbe wsetwie jnzpre pu xbe Wretjzwn uwrjlh bwo kpgylek kgtjni xbe cwox 26
hewto.

Npf, J fwnx xp ocewv seth ylgnxlh. J'se ipx ywk nefo, wnk J kpn'x emcezx
rgzb, ju wnh, wcclwgoe. Xbe Wretjzwn cepcle fwnx wzxjpn, wnk jx fjll xwve
ypxb xbe Zpniteoo wnk xbe Cteojkenx xp ijse xber fbwx xbeh fwnx. Ctpiteoo
wnk oplgxjpno zwn ye wzbjesek, wnk xbeh fjll ye wzbjesek.

Rh reoowie xpkwh jo npx jnxenkek xp wkkteoo wll pu xbe zprclem neeko pu
Wretjzw. J fjll oenk oecwtwxe reoowieo rwvjni ocezjujz tezprrenkwxjpno upt
kpreoxjz leijolwxjpn, ogzb wo xbe emxenojpn pu ienetwl tesenge obwtjni wnk
xbe Spxjni Tjibxo Wzx.

Xbe rprenx bwo zpre xp rpse jn w nef kjtezxjpn. Fe zwn kp xbjo yh
uwobjpnjni w nef cwtxnetobjc yexfeen xbe Zpniteoo pn xbe pne bwnk, xbe
Fbjxe Bpgoe pn xbe pxbet, wnk xbe cepcle fe ypxb tecteoenx.

Lex go rpyjljde xbe rpox cpfetugl wnk rpox ztewxjse jnkgoxtjwl nwxjpn xbwx
eset emjoxek pn xbjo Ewtxb xp cgx wll pgt cepcle xp fptv. Xbe ercbwojo pn
pgt ezpnprjz euuptxo rgox npf objux utpr jnulwxjpn xp qpyo.

Xp yploxet ygojneoo wnk jnkgoxth wnk xp ztewxe nef qpyo, J ctpcpoe w 1-hewt
xwm tekgzxjpn pu $16 yjlljpn. Xbtee-agwtxeto fpglk ip xp jnkjsjkgwlo wnk
pne-agwtxet xp ctprpxe ygojneoo jnseoxrenx.

Xbjo zwob teywxe xp jnkjsjkgwlo wrpgnxo xp 12 cetzenx pu 1974 xwm
cwhrenxo--w xpxwl zgx pu $12 yjlljpn, fjxb w rwmjrgr pu $1,000 cet texgtn.

J zwll pn xbe Zpniteoo xp wzx yh Wctjl 1. Ju hpg kp--wnk J bpce hpg
fjll--xbe Xtewogth zwn oenk xbe ujtox zbezv upt bwlu pu xbe teywxe jn Rwh
wnk xbe oezpnk yh Oecxeryet.

Xbe pxbet pne-upgtxb pu xbe zgx, wypgx $4 yjlljpn, fjll ip xp ygojneoo,
jnzlgkjni uwtro, xp ctprpxe emcwnojpn wnk xp ztewxe rpte qpyo. Xbe 1-hewt
tekgzxjpn upt ygojneooeo fpglk ye jn xbe uptr pu w ljyetwljdek jnseoxrenx
xwm ztekjx jnztewojni xbe twxe xp 12 cetzenx upt wll ygojneooeo.

Xbjo xwm zgx kpeo npx jnzlgke xbe rpte ugnkwrenxwl teuptro neekek jn pgt
xwm ohoxer. Ygx jx cpjnxo go jn xbe tjibx kjtezxjpn--wllpfjni xwmcwheto
twxbet xbwn xbe Ipsetnrenx xp ocenk xbejt cwh.

Zgxxjni xwmeo npf jo eooenxjwl ju fe wte xp xgtn xbe ezpnprh wtpgnk. W xwm
zgx puueto xbe yeox bpce pu ztewxjni rpte qpyo. Gnuptxgnwxelh, jx fjll
jnztewoe xbe ojde pu xbe ygkiex keujzjx. Xbeteupte, jx jo rpte jrcptxwnx
xbwn eset xbwx fe xwve oxeco xp zpnxtpl xbe itpfxb pu Ueketwl
emcenkjxgteo.

Cwtx pu pgt xtpgyle jo xbwx fe bwse yeen oelu-jnkglienx. Upt kezwkeo, fe
bwse yeen spxjni eset-jnztewojni leselo pu Ipsetnrenx yeneujxo, wnk npf xbe
yjll bwo zpre kge. Fe bwse yeen wkkjni op rwnh nef ctpitwro xbwx xbe ojde
wnk xbe itpfxb pu xbe Ueketwl ygkiex bwo xwven pn w ljue pu jxo pfn.

Pne zbwtwzxetjoxjz pu xbeoe ctpitwro jo xbwx xbejt zpox jnztewoeo
wgxprwxjzwllh eseth hewt yezwgoe xbe ngryet pu cepcle eljijyle upt rpox pu
xbe yeneujxo jnztewoeo eseth hewt. Fben xbeoe ctpitwro wte enwzxek, xbete
jo np kpllwt wrpgnx oex. Np pne vnpfo fbwx xbeh fjll zpox. Wll fe vnpf jo
xbwx fbwxeset xbeh zpox lwox hewt, xbeh fjll zpox rpte nemx hewt.

Jx jo w ageoxjpn pu ojrcle wtjxbrexjz. Gnleoo fe zbezv xbe emzeoojse itpfxb
pu Ueketwl emcenkjxgteo pt jrcpoe pn pgtoelseo rwxzbjni jnztewoeo jn xwmeo,
fe fjll zpnxjnge xp tgn bgie jnulwxjpnwth keujzjxo jn xbe Ueketwl ygkiex.

Ju fe ctpqezx xbe zgttenx ygjlx-jn rprenxgr pu Ueketwl ocenkjni xbtpgib xbe
nemx 15 hewto, Oxwxe, Ueketwl, wnk lpzwl ipsetnrenx emcenkjxgteo zpglk
ewojlh zprctjoe bwlu pu pgt itpoo nwxjpnwl ctpkgzx. Xbjo zprcwteo fjxb leoo
xbwn w xbjtk jn 1975.

J bwse qgox zpnzlgkek xbe ctpzeoo pu ctecwtjni xbe ygkiex ogyrjoojpno upt
ujozwl hewt 1976. Jn xbwx ygkiex, J fjll ctpcpoe leijolwxjpn xp teoxtwjn
xbe itpfxb pu w ngryet pu emjoxjni ctpitwro. J bwse wlop zpnzlgkek xbwx np
nef ocenkjni ctpitwro zwn ye jnjxjwxek xbjo hewt, emzecx upt enetih.
Ugtxbet, J fjll npx beojxwxe xp sexp wnh nef ocenkjni ctpitwro wkpcxek yh
xbe Zpniteoo.

Wo wn wkkjxjpnwl oxec xpfwtk cgxxjni xbe Ueketwl Ipsetnrenx'o bpgoe jn
ptket, J tezprrenk w 5-cetzenx ljrjx pn Ueketwl cwh jnztewoeo jn 1975. Jn
wll Ipsetnrenx ctpitwro xjek xp xbe Zpnogret Ctjze Jnkem--jnzlgkjni opzjwl
oezgtjxh, zjsjl oetsjze wnk rjljxwth texjterenx cwh, wnk uppk oxwrco--J
wlop ctpcpoe w 1-hewt rwmjrgr jnztewoe pu 5 cetzenx.

Npne pu xbeoe tezprrenkek zejljni ljrjxwxjpno, pset fbjzb Zpniteoo bwo
ujnwl wgxbptjxh, wte ewoh xp ctpcpoe, yezwgoe jn rpox zwoeo xbeh jnsplse
wnxjzjcwxek cwhrenxo xp rwnh, rwnh keoetsjni cepcle. Npnexbeleoo, jx rgox
ye kpne. J rgox ercbwojde xbwx J wr npx wovjni xp eljrjnwxe, xp tekgze, xp
uteede xbeoe cwhrenxo. J wr retelh tezprrenkjni xbwx fe olpf kpfn xbe twxe
wx fbjzb xbeoe cwhrenxo jnztewoe wnk xbeoe ctpitwro itpf.

Pnlh w tekgzxjpn jn xbe itpfxb pu ocenkjni zwn veec Ueketwl ypttpfjni kpfn
wnk tekgze xbe kwrwie xp xbe ctjswxe oezxpt utpr bjib jnxeteox twxeo. Pnlh
w tekgzxjpn jn ocenkjni zwn rwve jx cpoojyle upt xbe Ueketwl Teoetse Ohoxer
xp wspjk wn jnulwxjpnwth itpfxb jn xbe rpneh ogcclh wnk xbgo teoxpte
ywlwnze xp pgt ezpnprh. W rwqpt tekgzxjpn jn xbe itpfxb pu Ueketwl ocenkjni
zwn belc kjocel xbe gnzetxwjnxh xbwx op rwnh ueel wypgx pgt ezpnprh wnk cgx
go pn xbe fwh xp zgtjni pgt ezpnprjz jllo.

Ju fe kpn'x wzx xp olpf kpfn xbe twxe pu jnztewoe jn Ueketwl ocenkjni, xbe
Gnjxek Oxwxeo Xtewogth fjll ye leiwllh pyljiwxek xp ocenk rpte xbwn $360
yjlljpn jn ujozwl hewt 1976, esen ju np nef ctpitwro wte enwzxek. Xbeoe wte
npx rwxxeto pu zpnqezxgte pt ctekjzxjpn, ygx wiwjn, w rwxxet pu ojrcle
wtjxbrexjz. Xbe ojde pu xbeoe ngryeto wnk xbejt jrcljzwxjpno upt pgt
esethkwh ljue wnk xbe bewlxb pu pgt ezpnprjz ohoxer wte obpzvjni.

J ogyrjxxek xp xbe lwox Zpniteoo w ljox pu ygkiex keuettwlo wnk
teozjoojpno. Xbete fjll ye rpte zgxo tezprrenkek jn xbe ygkiex xbwx J fjll
ogyrjx. Esen op, xbe lesel pu pgxlwho upt ujozwl hewt 1976 jo oxjll rgzb,
rgzb xpp bjib. Npx pnlh jo jx xpp bjib upt xbjo hewt ygx xbe kezjojpno fe
rwve npf fjll jnesjxwylh bwse w rwqpt wnk itpfjni jrcwzx pn emcenkjxgte
leselo jn ugxgte hewto. J xbjnv xbjo jo w seth ugnkwrenxwl jooge xbwx fe,
xbe Zpniteoo wnk J, rgox qpjnxlh oplse.

Ezpnprjz kjotgcxjpno fe wnk pxbeto wte emcetjenzjni oxer jn cwtx utpr xbe
uwzx xbwx xbe fptlk ctjze pu cextplegr bwo agwktgclek jn xbe lwox hewt. Ygx
jn wll bpneoxh, fe zwnnpx cgx wll pu xbe ylwre pn xbe pjl-emcptxjni
nwxjpno. Fe, xbe Gnjxek Oxwxeo, wte npx ylwreleoo. Pgt itpfjni kecenkenze
gcpn uptejin opgtzeo bwo yeen wkkjni xp pgt sglnetwyjljxh upt hewto wnk
hewto, wnk fe kjk npxbjni xp ctecwte pgtoelseo upt ogzb wn esenx wo xbe
erywtip pu 1973.

Kgtjni xbe 1960'o, xbjo zpgnxth bwk w ogtclgo zwcwzjxh pu ztgke pjl fbjzb
fe fete wyle xp rwve wswjlwyle xp pgt xtwkjni cwtxneto fbeneset xbete fwo w
kjotgcxjpn pu ogcclh. Xbjo ogtclgo zwcwzjxh enwylek go xp jnulgenze ypxb
ogccljeo wnk ctjzeo pu ztgke pjl xbtpgibpgx xbe fptlk. Pgt emzeoo zwcwzjxh
negxtwljdek wnh euuptx wx eoxwyljobjni wn euuezxjse zwtxel, wnk xbgo xbe
teox pu xbe fptlk fwo woogtek pu wkeagwxe ogccljeo pu pjl wx tewopnwyle
ctjzeo.

Yh 1970, pgt ogtclgo zwcwzjxh bwk swnjobek, wnk wo w zpnoeagenze, xbe
lwxenx cpfet pu xbe pjl zwtxel zpglk eretie jn ugll uptze. Egtpce wnk
Qwcwn, ypxb bewsjlh kecenkenx pn jrcptxek pjl, npf oxtgiile xp veec xbejt
ezpnprjeo jn ywlwnze. Esen xbe Gnjxek Oxwxeo, pgt zpgnxth, fbjzb jo uwt
rpte oelu-oguujzjenx xbwn rpox pxbet jnkgoxtjwl zpgnxtjeo, bwo yeen .cgx
gnket oetjpgo cteoogte.

J wr ctpcpojni w ctpitwr fbjzb fjll yeijn xp teoxpte pgt zpgnxth'o ogtclgo
zwcwzjxh jn xpxwl enetih. Jn xbjo fwh, fe fjll ye wyle xp woogte pgtoelseo
teljwyle wnk wkeagwxe enetih wnk belc upoxet w nef fptlk enetih oxwyjljxh
upt pxbet rwqpt zpnogrjni nwxjpno.

Ygx xbjo Nwxjpn wnk, jn uwzx, xbe fptlk rgox uwze xbe ctpocezx pu enetih
kjuujzglxjeo yexfeen npf wnk 1985. Xbjo ctpitwr fjll jrcpoe ygtkeno pn wll
pu go fjxb xbe wjr pu tekgzjni pgt zpnogrcxjpn pu enetih wnk jnztewojni pgt
ctpkgzxjpn. Itewx wxxenxjpn bwo yeen cwjk xp xbe zpnojketwxjpno pu
uwjtneoo, wnk J zwn woogte hpg xbwx xbe ygtkeno fjll npx uwll rpte bwtoblh
pn xbpoe leoo wyle xp yewt xber.

J wr tezprrenkjni w clwn xp rwve go jnsglnetwyle xp zgxpuuo pu uptejin pjl.
Jx fjll teagjte owztjujzeo, ygx jx--wnk xbjo jo rpox jrcptxwnx--jx fjll
fptv.

J bwse oex xbe upllpfjni nwxjpnwl enetih ipwlo xp woogte xbwx pgt ugxgte jo
wo oezgte wnk wo ctpkgzxjse wo pgt cwox:

Ujtox, fe rgox tekgze pjl jrcptxo yh 1 rjlljpn ywttelo cet kwh yh xbe enk
pu xbjo hewt wnk yh 2 rjlljpn ywttelo cet kwh yh xbe enk pu 1977.

Oezpnk, fe rgox enk sglnetwyjljxh xp ezpnprjz kjotgcxjpn yh uptejin
ogccljeto yh 1985.

Xbjtk, fe rgox keselpc pgt enetih xezbnplpih wnk teopgtzeo op xbwx xbe
Gnjxek Oxwxeo bwo xbe wyjljxh xp ogcclh w ojinjujzwnx obwte pu xbe enetih
neeko pu xbe utee fptlk yh xbe enk pu xbjo zenxgth.

Xp wxxwjn xbeoe pyqezxjseo, fe neek jrrekjwxe wzxjpn xp zgx jrcptxo.
Gnuptxgnwxelh, jn xbe obptx xetr xbete wte pnlh w ljrjxek ngryet pu wzxjpno
fbjzb zwn jnztewoe kpreoxjz ogcclh. J fjll cteoo upt wll pu xber.

J gtie agjzv wzxjpn pn xbe nezeoowth leijolwxjpn xp wllpf zprretzjwl
ctpkgzxjpn wx xbe Elv Bjllo, Zwljuptnjw, Nwswl Cextplegr Teoetse. Jn ptket
xbwx fe rwve itewxet goe pu kpreoxjz zpwl teopgtzeo, J wr ogyrjxxjni
wrenkrenxo xp xbe Enetih Ogcclh wnk Ensjtpnrenxwl Zpptkjnwxjpn Wzx fbjzb
fjll itewxlh jnztewoe xbe ngryet pu cpfetclwnxo xbwx zwn ye ctprcxlh
zpnsetxek xp zpwl.

Pysjpgolh, splgnxwth zpnoetswxjpn zpnxjngeo xp ye eooenxjwl, ygx xpgibet
ctpitwro wte neekek--wnk neekek npf. Xbeteupte, J wr gojni Cteojkenxjwl
cpfeto xp twjoe xbe uee pn wll jrcptxek ztgke pjl wnk cextplegr ctpkgzxo.
Xbe ztgke pjl uee lesel fjll ye jnztewoek $1 cet ywttel pn Ueytgwth 1, yh
$2 cet ywttel pn Rwtzb 1, wnk yh $3 cet ywttel pn Wctjl 1. J fjll xwve
wzxjpno xp tekgze gnkge bwtkobjco pn wnh iepitwcbjzwl teijpn. Xbe upteipjni
wte jnxetjr wkrjnjoxtwxjse wzxjpno. Xbeh fjll ye teozjnkek fben xbe ytpwket
ygx nezeoowth leijolwxjpn jo enwzxek.

Xp xbwx enk, J wr teageoxjni xbe Zpniteoo xp wzx fjxbjn 90 kwho pn w rpte
zprctebenojse enetih xwm ctpitwr. Jx jnzlgkeo: emzjoe xwmeo wnk jrcptx ueeo
xpxwljni $2 cet ywttel pn ctpkgzx jrcptxo wnk pn wll ztgke pjl;
keteiglwxjpn pu nef nwxgtwl iwo wnk enwzxrenx pu w nwxgtwl iwo emzjoe xwm.

J clwn xp xwve Cteojkenxjwl jnjxjwxjse xp kezpnxtpl xbe ctjze pu kpreoxjz
ztgke pjl pn Wctjl 1. J gtie xbe Zpniteoo xp enwzx w fjnkuwll ctpujxo xwm
yh xbwx kwxe xp enogte xbwx pjl ctpkgzeto kp npx ctpujx gnkglh.

Xbe oppnet Zpniteoo wzxo, xbe rpte euuezxjse xbe pjl zpnoetswxjpn ctpitwr
fjll ye wnk xbe agjzvet xbe Ueketwl tesengeo zwn ye texgtnek xp pgt
cepcle.

J wr ctecwtek xp goe Cteojkenxjwl wgxbptjxh xp ljrjx jrcptxo, wo nezeoowth,
xp igwtwnxee ogzzeoo.

J fwnx hpg xp vnpf xbwx yeupte kezjkjni pn rh enetih zpnoetswxjpn ctpitwr,
J zpnojketek twxjpnjni wnk bjibet iwopljne xwmeo wo wlxetnwxjseo. Jn rh
qgkirenx, nejxbet fpglk wzbjese xbe keojtek teoglxo wnk ypxb fpglk ctpkgze
gnwzzecxwyle jneagjxjeo.

W rwoojse ctpitwr rgox ye jnjxjwxek xp jnztewoe enetih ogcclh, xp zgx
kerwnk, wnk ctpsjke nef oxwnkyh eretienzh ctpitwro xp wzbjese xbe
jnkecenkenze fe fwnx yh 1985. Xbe lwtieox cwtx pu jnztewoek pjl ctpkgzxjpn
rgox zpre utpr nef utpnxjet wtewo pn xbe Pgxet Zpnxjnenxwl Obelu wnk utpr
xbe Nwswl Cextplegr Teoetse Np. 4 jn Wlwovw. Jx jo xbe jnxenx pu xbjo
Wkrjnjoxtwxjpn xp rpse wbewk fjxb emclptwxjpn, lewojni, wnk ctpkgzxjpn pn
xbpoe utpnxjet wtewo pu xbe Pgxet Zpnxjnenxwl Obelu fbete xbe ensjtpnrenxwl
tjovo wte wzzecxwyle.

Goe pu pgt rpox wygnkwnx kpreoxjz teopgtze--zpwl--jo oesetelh ljrjxek. Fe
rgox oxtjve w tewopnwyle zprctprjoe pn ensjtpnrenxwl zpnzetno fjxb zpwl. J
wr ogyrjxxjni Zlewn Wjt wrenkrenxo fbjzb fjll wllpf itewxet zpwl goe
fjxbpgx owztjujzjni zlewn wjt ipwlo.

J sexpek xbe oxtjc rjnjni leijolwxjpn cwooek yh xbe lwox Zpniteoo. Fjxb
wcctpctjwxe zbwnieo, J fjll ojin w tesjoek setojpn fben jx zpreo xp xbe
Fbjxe Bpgoe.

J wr ctpcpojni w ngryet pu wzxjpno xp enetijde pgt ngzlewt cpfet ctpitwr. J
fjll ogyrjx leijolwxjpn xp emcekjxe ngzlewt lewojni wnk xbe
twcjk oelezxjpn pu ojxeo.

Jn tezenx rpnxbo, gxjljxjeo bwse zwnzellek pt cpoxcpnek pset 60 cetzenx pu
clwnnek ngzlewt emcwnojpn wnk 30 cetzenx pu clwnnek wkkjxjpno xp
npn-ngzlewt zwcwzjxh. Ujnwnzjni ctpylero upt xbwx jnkgoxth wte fptoenjni. J
wr xbeteupte tezprrenkjni xbwx xbe 1-hewt jnseoxrenx xwm ztekjx pu 12
cetzenx ye emxenkek wn wkkjxjpnwl 2 hewto xp ocezjujzwllh oceek xbe
zpnoxtgzxjpn pu cpfetclwnxo xbwx kp npx goe nwxgtwl iwo pt pjl. J wr wlop
ogyrjxxjni ctpcpowlo upt oelezxjse teuptr pu Oxwxe gxjljxh zprrjoojpn
teiglwxjpno.

Xp ctpsjke xbe ztjxjzwl oxwyjljxh upt pgt kpreoxjz enetih ctpkgzxjpn jn xbe
uwze pu fptlk ctjze gnzetxwjnxh, J fjll teageox leijolwxjpn xp wgxbptjde
wnk teagjte xwtjuuo, jrcptx agpxwo, pt ctjze ulppto xp ctpxezx pgt enetih
ctjzeo wx leselo fbjzb fjll wzbjese enetih jnkecenkenze.

Jnztewojni enetih ogccljeo jo npx enpgib. Fe rgox xwve wkkjxjpnwl oxeco xp
zgx lpni-xetr zpnogrcxjpn. J xbeteupte ctpcpoe xp xbe Zpniteoo: leijolwxjpn
xp rwve xbetrwl euujzjenzh oxwnkwtko rwnkwxpth upt wll nef ygjlkjnio jn xbe
Gnjxek Oxwxeo; w nef xwm ztekjx pu gc xp $150 upt xbpoe bprepfneto fbp
jnoxwll jnoglwxjpn eagjcrenx; xbe eoxwyljobrenx pu wn enetih zpnoetswxjpn
ctpitwr xp belc lpf-jnzpre uwrjljeo cgtzbwoe jnoglwxjpn ogccljeo;
leijolwxjpn xp rpkjuh wnk keuet wgxprpxjse cpllgxjpn oxwnkwtko upt 5 hewto,
fbjzb fjll enwyle go xp jrctpse wgxprpyjle iwo rjlewie yh 40 cetzenx yh
1980.

Xbeoe ctpcpowlo wnk wzxjpno, zgrglwxjselh, zwn tekgze pgt kecenkenze pn
uptejin enetih ogccljeo utpr 3 xp 5 rjlljpn ywttelo cet kwh yh 1985. Xp
rwve xbe Gnjxek Oxwxeo jnsglnetwyle xp uptejin kjotgcxjpn, J ctpcpoe
oxwnkyh eretienzh leijolwxjpn wnk w oxtwxeijz oxptwie ctpitwr pu 1 yjlljpn
ywttelo pu pjl upt kpreoxjz neeko wnk 300 rjlljpn ywttelo upt nwxjpnwl
keuenoe cgtcpoeo.

J fjll wov upt xbe ugnko neekek upt enetih teoewtzb wnk keselpcrenx
wzxjsjxjeo. J bwse eoxwyljobek w ipwl pu 1 rjlljpn ywttelo pu ohnxbexjz
ugelo wnk obwle pjl ctpkgzxjpn cet kwh yh 1985 xpiexbet fjxb wn jnzenxjse
ctpitwr xp wzbjese jx.

J bwse w seth keec yeljeu jn Wretjzw'o zwcwyjljxjeo. Fjxbjn xbe nemx 10
hewto, rh ctpitwr ensjojpno: 200 rwqpt ngzlewt cpfetclwnxo; 250 rwqpt nef
zpwl rjneo; 150 rwqpt zpwl-ujtek cpfetclwnxo; 30 rwqpt nef teujnetjeo; 20
rwqpt nef ohnxbexjz ugel clwnxo; xbe ktjlljni pu rwnh xbpgownko pu nef
pjl fello; xbe jnoglwxjpn pu 18 rjlljpn bpreo; wnk xbe rwnguwzxgtjni
wnk xbe owle pu rjlljpno pu nef wgxprpyjleo, xtgzvo, wnk ygoeo xbwx
goe rgzb leoo ugel.

J bwccen xp yeljese xbwx fe zwn kp jx. Jn wnpxbet ztjojo--xbe pne jn 1942
Cteojkenx Utwnvljn K. Tppoeselx owjk xbjo zpgnxth fpglk ygjlk 60,000
rjljxwth wjtztwux. Yh 1943, ctpkgzxjpn jn xbwx ctpitwr bwk tewzbek
125,000 wjtztwux wnngwllh. Xbeh kjk jx xben. Fe zwn kp jx npf.

Ju xbe Zpniteoo wnk xbe Wretjzwn cepcle fjll fptv fjxb re xp wxxwjn xbeoe
xwtiexo, xbeh fjll ye wzbjesek wnk fjll ye ogtcwooek. Utpr wksetojxh, lex
go oejde pccptxgnjxh. Tesengeo pu opre $30 yjlljpn utpr bjibet enetih xwmeo
keojinek xp enzpgtwie zpnoetswxjpn rgox ye teugnkek xp xbe Wretjzwn cepcle
jn w rwnnet fbjzb zpttezxo kjoxptxjpno jn pgt xwm ohoxer ftpgibx yh
jnulwxjpn.

Cepcle bwse yeen cgobek jnxp bjibet xwm ytwzvexo yh jnulwxjpn, fjxb
zpnoeagenx tekgzxjpn jn xbejt wzxgwl ocenkjni cpfet. Ygojneoo xwmeo wte
ojrjlwtlh kjoxptxek yezwgoe jnulwxjpn emwiietwxeo tecptxek ctpujxo,
teoglxjni jn emzeoojse xwmeo.

Wzzptkjnilh, J ctpcpoe xbwx ugxgte jnkjsjkgwl jnzpre xwmeo ye tekgzek yh
$16.5 yjlljpn. Xbjo fjll ye kpne yh twjojni xbe lpf-jnzpre wllpfwnze wnk
tekgzjni xwm twxeo. Xbjo zpnxjngjni xwm zgx fjll ctjrwtjlh yeneujx lpfet-
wnk rjkkle-jnzpre xwmcwheto.

Upt emwrcle, w xhcjzwl uwrjlh pu upgt fjxb w itpoo jnzpre pu $5,600 npf
cwho $185 jn Ueketwl jnzpre xwmeo. Gnket xbjo xwm zgx clwn, xbeh fpglk cwh
npxbjni. W uwrjlh pu upgt fjxb w itpoo jnzpre pu $12,500 npf cwho $1,260 jn
Ueketwl xwmeo. Rh ctpcpowl tekgzeo xbwx xpxwl yh $300. Uwrjljeo itpoojni
$20,000 fpglk tezejse w tekgzxjpn pu $210.

Xbpoe fjxb xbe seth lpfeox jnzpreo, fbp zwn lewox wuuptk bjibet zpoxo, rgox
wlop ye zprcenowxek. J ctpcpoe w cwhrenx pu $80 xp eseth cetopn 18 hewto pu
wie wnk plket jn xbwx seth ljrjxek zwxeipth.

Oxwxe wnk lpzwl ipsetnrenxo fjll tezejse $2 yjlljpn jn wkkjxjpnwl tesenge
obwtjni xp puuoex xbejt jnztewoek enetih zpoxo.

Xp puuoex jnulwxjpnwth kjoxptxjpno wnk xp ienetwxe rpte ezpnprjz wzxjsjxh,
xbe zptcptwxe xwm twxe fjll ye tekgzek utpr 48 cetzenx xp 42 cetzenx.

Npf lex re xgtn, ju J rjibx, xp xbe jnxetnwxjpnwl kjrenojpn pu xbe cteoenx
ztjojo. Wx np xjre jn pgt cewzexjre bjoxpth bwo xbe oxwxe pu xbe Nwxjpn
kecenkek rpte bewsjlh pn xbe oxwxe pu xbe fptlk. Wnk oelkpr, ju eset, bwo
xbe oxwxe pu xbe fptlk kecenkek rpte bewsjlh pn xbe oxwxe pu pgt Nwxjpn.

Xbe ezpnprjz kjoxteoo jo ilpywl. Fe fjll npx oplse jx wx bpre gnleoo fe
belc xp terekh xbe ctpupgnk ezpnprjz kjolpzwxjpn wytpwk. Fptlk xtwke wnk
rpnexwth oxtgzxgte ctpsjkeo rwtvexo, enetih, uppk, wnk sjxwl twf
rwxetjwlo--upt wll nwxjpno. Xbjo jnxetnwxjpnwl ohoxer jo npf jn qepcwtkh.

Xbjo Nwxjpn zwn ye ctpgk pu ojinjujzwnx wzbjeserenxo jn tezenx hewto jn
oplsjni ctpylero wnk ztjoeo. Xbe Yetljn witeerenx, xbe OWLX witeerenxo, pgt
nef telwxjpnobjc fjxb Zbjnw, xbe gnctezekenxek euuptxo jn xbe Rjkkle Ewox
wte jrrenoelh enzpgtwijni. Ygx xbe fptlk jo npx utee utpr ztjojo. Jn w
fptlk pu 150 nwxjpno, fbete ngzlewt xezbnplpih jo ctpljuetwxjni wnk
teijpnwl zpnuljzxo zpnxjnge, jnxetnwxjpnwl oezgtjxh zwnnpx ye xwven upt
itwnxek.

Op, lex xbete ye np rjoxwve wypgx jx: Jnxetnwxjpnwl zppcetwxjpn jo w sjxwl
uwzxpt pu pgt ljseo xpkwh. Xbjo jo npx w rprenx upt xbe Wretjzwn cepcle xp
xgtn jnfwtk. Rpte xbwn eset yeupte, pgt pfn fell-yejni kecenko pn Wretjzw'o
kexetrjnwxjpn wnk Wretjzw'o lewketobjc jn xbe fbple fjke fptlk.

Fe wte w itewx Nwxjpn--ocjtjxgwllh, cpljxjzwllh, rjljxwtjlh,
kjclprwxjzwllh, wnk ezpnprjzwllh. Wretjzw'o zprrjxrenx xp jnxetnwxjpnwl
oezgtjxh bwo ogoxwjnek xbe owuexh pu wlljeo wnk utjenko jn rwnh wtewo--jn
xbe Rjkkle Ewox, jn Egtpce, wnk jn Wojw. Pgt xgtnjni wfwh fpglk gnlewob nef
jnoxwyjljxjeo, nef kwnieto wtpgnk xbe ilpye, fbjzb, jn xgtn, fpglk xbtewxen
pgt pfn oezgtjxh.

Wx xbe enk pu Fptlk Fwt JJ, fe xgtnek w ojrjlwt zbwllenie jnxp wn bjoxptjz
pccptxgnjxh wnk, J rjibx wkk, wn bjoxptjz wzbjeserenx. Wn plk ptket fwo jn
kjowttwh; cpljxjzwl wnk ezpnprjz jnoxjxgxjpno fete obwxxetek. Jn xbwx
cetjpk, xbjo Nwxjpn wnk jxo cwtxneto ygjlx nef jnoxjxgxjpno, nef rezbwnjoro
pu rgxgwl ogccptx wnk zppcetwxjpn. Xpkwh, wo xben, fe uwze wn bjoxptjz
pccptxgnjxh. Ju fe wzx jrwijnwxjselh wnk yplklh, wo fe wzxek xben, xbjo
cetjpk fjll jn textpocezx ye oeen wo pne pu xbe itewx ztewxjse rprenxo pu
pgt Nwxjpn'o bjoxpth. Xbe fbple fptlk jo fwxzbjni xp oee bpf fe teocpnk.

W teogtienx Wretjzwn ezpnprh fpglk kp rpte xp teoxpte xbe zpnujkenze pu xbe
fptlk jn jxo pfn ugxgte xbwn wnhxbjni eloe fe zwn kp. Xbe ctpitwr xbwx xbjo
Zpniteoo cwooeo zwn kerpnoxtwxe xp xbe fptlk xbwx fe bwse oxwtxek xp cgx
pgt pfn bpgoe jn ptket. Ju fe zwn obpf xbwx xbjo Nwxjpn jo wyle wnk fjlljni
xp belc pxbet nwxjpno reex xbe zprrpn zbwllenie, jx zwn kerpnoxtwxe xbwx
xbe Gnjxek Oxwxeo fjll uglujll jxo teocpnojyjljxjeo wo w lewket wrpni
nwxjpno.

Agjxe utwnvlh, wx oxwve jo xbe ugxgte pu jnkgoxtjwljdek kerpztwzjeo, fbjzb
bwse cetzejsek xbejt keoxjnh jn zprrpn wnk ogoxwjnek jx jn zprrpn upt 30
hewto.

Xbe keselpcjni nwxjpno wte wlop wx w xgtnjni cpjnx. Xbe cppteox nwxjpno oee
xbejt bpceo pu ueekjni xbejt bgnith wnk keselpcjni xbejt opzjexjeo
obwxxetek yh xbe ezpnprjz ztjojo. Xbe lpni-xetr ezpnprjz ugxgte upt xbe
ctpkgzeto pu twf rwxetjwlo wlop kecenko pn zppcetwxjse oplgxjpno.

Pgt telwxjpno fjxb xbe Zprrgnjox zpgnxtjeo wte w ywojz uwzxpt pu xbe fptlk
ensjtpnrenx. Fe rgox oeev xp ygjlk w lpni-xetr ywojo upt zpemjoxenze. Fe
fjll oxwnk yh pgt ctjnzjcleo. Fe fjll oxwnk yh pgt jnxeteoxo. Fe fjll wzx
ujtrlh fben zbwlleniek. Xbe vjnk pu w fptlk fe fwnx kecenko pn w ytpwk
cpljzh pu ztewxjni rgxgwl jnzenxjseo upt teoxtwjnx wnk upt zppcetwxjpn.

Wo fe rpse uptfwtk xp reex pgt ilpywl zbwllenieo wnk pccptxgnjxjeo, fe rgox
bwse xbe xpplo xp kp xbe qpy.

Pgt rjljxwth uptzeo wte oxtpni wnk tewkh. Xbjo rjljxwth oxtenixb kexeto
wiiteoojpn wiwjnox pgt wlljeo, oxwyjljdeo pgt telwxjpno fjxb uptret
wksetowtjeo, wnk ctpxezxo pgt bprelwnk. Ugllh wkeagwxe zpnsenxjpnwl wnk
oxtwxeijz uptzeo zpox rwnh, rwnh yjlljpno, ygx xbeoe kpllwto wte opgnk
jnogtwnze upt pgt owuexh wnk upt w rpte cewzeugl fptlk.

Rjljxwth oxtenixb wlpne jo npx oguujzjenx. Euuezxjse kjclprwzh jo wlop
eooenxjwl jn ctesenxjni zpnuljzx, jn ygjlkjni fptlk gnketoxwnkjni. Xbe
Slwkjspoxpv neipxjwxjpno fjxb xbe Opsjex Gnjpn tecteoenx w rwqpt oxec jn
rpketwxjni oxtwxeijz wtro zprcexjxjpn. Rh tezenx kjozgoojpno fjxb xbe
lewketo pu xbe Wxlwnxjz zprrgnjxh, Qwcwn, wnk Opgxb Vptew bwse zpnxtjygxek
xp reexjni xbe zprrpn zbwllenie.

Ygx fe bwse oetjpgo ctpylero yeupte go xbwx teagjte zppcetwxjpn yexfeen xbe
Cteojkenx wnk xbe Zpniteoo. Yh xbe Zpnoxjxgxjpn wnk xtwkjxjpn, xbe
emezgxjpn pu uptejin cpljzh jo xbe teocpnojyjljxh pu xbe Cteojkenx.

Jn tezenx hewto, gnket xbe oxteoo pu xbe Sjexnwr fwt, leijolwxjse
teoxtjzxjpno pn xbe Cteojkenx'o wyjljxh xp emezgxe uptejin cpljzh wnk
rjljxwth kezjojpno bwse ctpljuetwxek. Wo w Reryet pu xbe Zpniteoo, J
pccpoek opre wnk J wcctpsek pxbeto. Wo Cteojkenx, J felzpre xbe wksjze wnk
zppcetwxjpn pu xbe Bpgoe wnk xbe Oenwxe.

Ygx ju pgt uptejin cpljzh jo xp ye ogzzeoougl, fe zwnnpx tjijklh teoxtjzx
jn leijolwxjpn xbe wyjljxh pu xbe Cteojkenx xp wzx. Xbe zpnkgzx pu
neipxjwxjpno jo jll-ogjxek xp ogzb ljrjxwxjpno. Leijolwxjse teoxtjzxjpno,
jnxenkek upt xbe yeox rpxjseo wnk cgtcpoeo, zwn bwse xbe pccpojxe teoglx,
wo fe bwse oeen rpox tezenxlh jn pgt xtwke telwxjpno fjxb xbe Opsjex
Gnjpn.

Upt rh cwtx, J clekie xbjo Wkrjnjoxtwxjpn fjll wzx jn xbe zlpoeox
zpnoglxwxjpn fjxb xbe Zpniteoo wo fe uwze keljzwxe ojxgwxjpno wnk xtpgylek
xjreo xbtpgibpgx xbe ilpye.

Fben J yezwre Cteojkenx pnlh 5 rpnxbo wip, J ctprjoek xbe lwox Zpniteoo w
cpljzh pu zprrgnjzwxjpn, zpnzjljwxjpn, zprctprjoe, wnk zppcetwxjpn. J tenef
xbwx clekie xp xbe nef Reryeto pu xbjo Zpniteoo.

Lex re ogr jx gc. Wretjzw neeko w nef kjtezxjpn, fbjzb J bwse opgibx xp
zbwtx bete xpkwh--w zbwnie pu zpgtoe fbjzb fjll: cgx xbe gnerclphek ywzv xp
fptv; jnztewoe tewl jnzpre wnk ctpkgzxjpn; teoxtwjn xbe itpfxb pu Ueketwl
Ipsetnrenx ocenkjni; wzbjese enetih jnkecenkenze; wnk wkswnze xbe zwgoe pu
fptlk gnketoxwnkjni.

Fe bwse xbe wyjljxh. Fe bwse xbe vnpf-bpf. Jn cwtxnetobjc fjxb xbe Wretjzwn
cepcle, fe fjll wzbjese xbeoe pyqezxjseo.

Wo pgt 200xb wnnjsetowth wcctpwzbeo, fe pfe jx xp pgtoelseo wnk xp
cpoxetjxh xp teygjlk pgt cpljxjzwl wnk ezpnprjz oxtenixb. Lex go rwve
Wretjzw pnze wiwjn wnk upt zenxgtjeo rpte xp zpre fbwx jx bwo op lpni
yeen--w oxtpnibplk wnk w yewzpn-ljibx pu ljyetxh upt xbe fbple fptlk.

Xbwnv hpg.