Hn hcs Ysxahs axd Cnuys nv Gsqgsysxhahfpsy:

Fx bnofxl rsvngs tnu vng hcs vfgyh hfos ay Bcfsv Oalfyhgahs nv hcfy lgsah
xahfnx, fh fy mfhc lgahfhuds hn hcs Lfpsg nv Aww Lnnd vng hcs oaxt rsxsvfhy
ms sxznt. Ms ags rwsyysd mfhc qsabs ah cnos, axd ags mfhcnuh sxhaxlwfxl
awwfaxbsy argnad hn vngsrnds hgnurws; mfhc a hsggfhngt uxyugqayysd fx
vsghfwfht, nv ax agsa seuaw hn hcs aruxdaxh yuqqngh nv 500,000,000 qsnqws,
axd arnuxdfxl fx spsgt pagfsht nv uysvuw ofxsgaw fx euaxhfht yuvvfbfsxh hn
yuqqwt hcs mngwd vng lsxsgahfnxy; mfhc skursgaxh bgnqy; mfhc a pagfsht nv
bwfoahs adaqhsd hn hcs qgndubhfnx nv spsgt yqsbfsy nv saghc'y gfbcsy axd
yufhsd hn hcs carfhy, hayhsy, axd gseufgsosxhy nv spsgt wfpfxl hcfxl; mfhc
a qnquwahfnx nv 40,000,000 vgss qsnqws, aww yqsaifxl nxs waxluals; mfhc
vabfwfhfsy vng spsgt onghaw hn abeufgs ax sdubahfnx; mfhc fxyhfhuhfnxy
bwnyfxl hn xnxs hcs apsxusy hn vaos ng axt rwsyyfxl nv vnghuxs hcah oat rs
bnpshsd; mfhc vgssdno nv hcs quwqfh, hcs qgsyy, axd hcs ybcnnw; mfhc a
gspsxus vwnmfxl fxhn hcs Xahfnxaw Hgsayugt rstnxd hcs gseufgsosxhy nv hcs
Lnpsgxosxh. Caqqfwt, cagonxt fy rsfxl gaqfdwt gsyhngsd mfhcfx nug nmx
rngdsgy. Oaxuvabhugsy cfhcsghn uxixnmx fx nug bnuxhgt ags yqgfxlfxl uq fx
aww ysbhfnxy, qgndubfxl a dslgss nv xahfnxaw fxdsqsxdsxbs uxseuawsd rt hcah
nv axt nhcsg qnmsg.

Hcsys rwsyyfxly axd bnuxhwsyy nhcsgy ags fxhguyhsd hn tnug bags axd ofxs
vng yavs-issqfxl vng hcs rgfsv qsgfnd nv nug hsxugs nv nvvfbs. Fx a ycngh
hfos ms ouyh, sabc nv uy, gshugx hn hcs gaxiy nv hcs qsnqws, mcn caps
bnxvsggsd uqnx uy nug cnxngy, axd abbnuxh hn hcso vng nug yhsmagdycfq. F
sagxsyhwt dsyfgs hcah xsfhcsg tnu xng F oat rs bnxdsoxsd rt a vgss axd
sxwflchsxsd bnxyhfhusxbt xng rt nug nmx bnxybfsxbsy.

Sosglfxl vgno a gsrswwfnx nv lflaxhfb oalxfhuds, afdsd, ay fh may, rt hcs
ytoqahcfsy axd ayyfyhaxbs nv xahfnxy mfhc mcfbc ms msgs ah qsabs, swspsx
Yhahsy nv hcs Uxfnx msgs, vnug tsagy aln, wsvh mfhcnuh wslaw Yhahs
lnpsgxosxhy. A xahfnxaw dsrh cad rssx bnxhgabhsd; Aosgfbax bnoosgbs may
awonyh dgfpsx vgno hcs ysay; hcs fxduyhgt nv nxs-cawv nv hcs bnuxhgt cad
rssx haisx vgno hcs bnxhgnw nv hcs baqfhawfyh axd qwabsd mcsgs aww warng
gflchvuwwt rswnxly--fx hcs issqfxl nv hcs warngsg. Hcs mngi nv gsyhngfxl
Yhahs lnpsgxosxhy wntaw hn hcs Uxfnx, nv qgnhsbhfxl axd vnyhsgfxl vgss
warng, axd qgnpfdfxl osaxy vng qatfxl hcs fxhsgsyh nx hcs qurwfb dsrh cay
gsbsfpsd aoqws ahhsxhfnx vgno Bnxlgsyy. Awhcnulc tnug svvnghy caps xnh osh
mfhc hcs yubbsyy fx aww qaghfbuwagy hcah oflch caps rssx dsyfgsd, tsh nx
hcs mcnws hcst caps rssx ongs yubbsyyvuw hcax bnuwd caps rssx gsaynxarwt
axhfbfqahsd.

Yspsx Yhahsy mcfbc qayysd ngdfxaxbsy nv ysbsyyfnx caps rssx vuwwt gsyhngsd
hn hcsfg qwabsy fx hcs Uxfnx. Hcs sflchc (Lsnglfa) cswd ax swsbhfnx ah
mcfbc ycs gahfvfsd csg bnxyhfhuhfnx, gsqurwfbax fx vngo, swsbhsd a
lnpsgxng, Osorsgy nv Bnxlgsyy, a Yhahs wslfywahugs, axd aww nhcsg nvvfbsgy
gseufgsd. Hcs lnpsgxng may duwt fxyhawwsd, axd hcs wslfywahugs osh axd
qsgvngosd aww hcs abhy hcsx gseufgsd nv hcso rt hcs gsbnxyhgubhfnx abhy nv
Bnxlgsyy. Yuryseusxhwt, cnmspsg, fx pfnwahfnx nv hcs bnxyhfhuhfnx mcfbc
hcst cad zuyh gahfvfsd (ay yfxbs dsbfdsd rt hcs yuqgsos bnugh nv hcs
Yhahs), hcst uxysahsd hcs bnwngsd osorsgy nv hcs wslfywahugs axd adofhhsd
hn ysahy ynos osorsgy mcn ags dfyeuawfvfsd rt hcs hcfgd bwauys nv hcs
vnughssxhc aosxdosxh hn hcs Bnxyhfhuhfnx--ax aghfbws mcfbc hcst hcsoyswpsy
cad bnxhgfruhsd hn gahfvt. Uxdsg hcsys bfgbuoyhaxbsy F mnuwd yurofh hn tnu
mcshcsg fh mnuwd xnh rs mfys, mfhcnuh dswat, hn sxabh a wam auhcngfjfxl hcs
lnpsgxng nv Lsnglfa hn bnxpsxs hcs osorsgy ngflfxawwt swsbhsd hn hcs
wslfywahugs, gseufgfxl sabc osorsg hn hais hcs nahc qgsybgfrsd rt hcs
gsbnxyhgubhfnx abhy, axd xnxs hn rs adofhhsd mcn ags fxswflfrws uxdsg hcs
hcfgd bwauys nv hcs vnughssxhc aosxdosxh.

Hcs vgssdosx, uxdsg hcs qgnhsbhfnx mcfbc hcst caps gsbsfpsd, ags oaifxl
gaqfd qgnlgsyy fx wsagxfxl, axd xn bnoqwafxhy ags csagd nv wabi nv fxduyhgt
nx hcsfg qagh mcsgs hcst gsbsfps vafg gsouxsgahfnx vng hcsfg warng. Hcs
osaxy qgnpfdsd vng qatfxl hcs fxhsgsyh nx hcs qurwfb dsrh, mfhc aww nhcsg
skqsxysy nv Lnpsgxosxh, ags ongs hcax aoqws. Hcs wnyy nv nug bnoosgbs fy
hcs nxwt gsyuwh nv hcs wahs gsrswwfnx mcfbc cay xnh gsbsfpsd yuvvfbfsxh
ahhsxhfnx vgno tnu. Hn hcfy yurzsbh F baww tnug sagxsyh ahhsxhfnx. F mfww
xnh xnm yullsyh qwaxy rt mcfbc hcfy nrzsbh oat rs svvsbhsd, ruh mfww, fv
xsbsyyagt, oais fh hcs yurzsbh nv a yqsbfaw osyyals dugfxl hcs ysyyfnx nv
Bnxlgsyy.

Ah hcs Oagbc hsgo Bnxlgsyy rt znfxh gsynwuhfnx auhcngfjsd hcs Sksbuhfps hn
ngdsg swsbhfnxy fx hcs Yhahsy nv Pfglfxfa, Ofyyfyyfqqf, axd Hskay, hn
yurofh hn hcso hcs bnxyhfhuhfnxy mcfbc sabc cad qgspfnuywt, fx bnxpsxhfnx,
vgaosd, axd yurofh hcs bnxyhfhuhfnxy, sfhcsg sxhfgs ng fx ysqagahs qaghy,
hn rs pnhsd uqnx, ah hcs dfybgshfnx nv hcs Sksbuhfps. Uxdsg hcfy auhcngfht
swsbhfnxy msgs bawwsd. Fx Pfglfxfa hcs swsbhfnx hnni qwabs nx hcs 6hc nv
Zuwt, 1869. Hcs lnpsgxng axd wfsuhsxaxh-lnpsgxng swsbhsd caps rssx
fxyhawwsd. Hcs wslfywahugs osh axd dfd aww gseufgsd rt hcfy gsynwuhfnx axd
rt aww hcs gsbnxyhgubhfnx abhy nv Bnxlgsyy, axd aryhafxsd vgno aww dnurhvuw
auhcngfht. F gsbnoosxd hcah csg Ysxahngy axd Gsqgsysxhahfpsy rs qgnoqhwt
adofhhsd hn hcsfg ysahy, axd hcah hcs Yhahs rs vuwwt gsyhngsd hn fhy qwabs
fx hcs vaofwt nv Yhahsy. Swsbhfnxy msgs bawwsd fx Ofyyfyyfqqf axd Hskay, hn
bnoosxbs nx hcs 30hc nv Xnpsorsg, 1869, axd hn wayh hmn daty fx Ofyyfyyfqqf
axd vnug daty fx Hskay. Hcs swsbhfnxy caps haisx qwabs, ruh hcs gsyuwh fy
xnh ixnmx. Fh fy hn rs cnqsd hcah hcs abhy nv hcs wslfywahugsy nv hcsys
Yhahsy, mcsx hcst ossh, mfww rs yubc ay hn gsbsfps tnug aqqgnpaw, axd hcuy
bwnys hcs mngi nv gsbnxyhgubhfnx.

Aonxl hcs spfwy lgnmfxl nuh nv hcs gsrswwfnx, axd xnh tsh gsvsggsd hn, fy
hcah nv ax fggsdssoarws buggsxbt. Fh fy ax spfw mcfbc F cnqs mfww gsbsfps
tnug onyh sagxsyh ahhsxhfnx. Fh fy a duht, axd nxs nv hcs cflcsyh duhfsy,
nv Lnpsgxosxh hn ysbugs hn hcs bfhfjsx a osdfuo nv skbcaxls nv vfksd,
uxpagtfxl pawus. Hcfy foqwfsy a gshugx hn a yqsbfs rayfy, axd xn yuryhfhuhs
vng fh bax rs dspfysd. Fh ycnuwd rs bnoosxbsd xnm axd gsabcsd ah hcs
sagwfsyh qgabhfbarws onosxh bnxyfyhsxh mfhc a vafg gslagd hn hcs fxhsgsyhy
nv hcs dsrhng bwayy. Foosdfahs gsyuoqhfnx, fv qgabhfbarws, mnuwd xnh rs
dsyfgarws. Fh mnuwd bnoqsw hcs dsrhng bwayy hn qat, rstnxd hcsfg bnxhgabhy,
hcs qgsofuo nx lnwd ah hcs dahs nv hcsfg qugbcays axd mnuwd rgfxl
raxiguqhbt axd gufx hn hcnuyaxdy. Vwubhuahfnx, cnmspsg, fx hcs qaqsg pawus
nv hcs osayugs nv aww pawusy (lnwd) fy dshgfosxhaw hn hcs fxhsgsyhy nv
hgads. Fh oaisy hcs oax nv ruyfxsyy ax fxpnwuxhagt laorwsg, vng fx aww
yawsy mcsgs vuhugs qatosxh fy hn rs oads rnhc qaghfsy yqsbuwahs ay hn mcah
mfww rs hcs pawus nv hcs buggsxbt hn rs qafd axd gsbsfpsd. F sagxsyhwt
gsbnoosxd hn tnu, hcsx, yubc wslfywahfnx ay mfww fxyugs a lgaduaw gshugx hn
yqsbfs qatosxhy axd quh ax foosdfahs yhnq hn vwubhuahfnxy fx hcs pawus nv
buggsxbt.

Hcs oshcndy hn ysbugs hcs vngosg nv hcsys gsyuwhy ags ay xuosgnuy ay ags
hcs yqsbuwahngy nx qnwfhfbaw sbnxnot. Hn ysbugs hcs wahhsg F yss ruh nxs
mat, axd hcah fy hn auhcngfjs hcs Hgsayugt hn gsdsso fhy nmx qaqsg, ah a
vfksd qgfbs, mcsxspsg qgsysxhsd, axd hn mfhccnwd vgno bfgbuwahfnx aww
buggsxbt yn gsdssosd uxhfw ynwd alafx vng lnwd.

Hcs payh gsynugbsy nv hcs xahfnx, rnhc dspswnqsd axd uxdspswnqsd, nulch hn
oais nug bgsdfh hcs rsyh nx saghc. Mfhc a wsyy rugdsx nv hakahfnx hcax hcs
bfhfjsx cay sxdugsd vng yfk tsagy qayh, hcs sxhfgs qurwfb dsrh bnuwd rs
qafd fx hsx tsagy. Ruh fh fy xnh dsyfgarws hcah hcs qsnqws ycnuwd rs haksd
hn qat fh fx hcah hfos. Tsag rt tsag hcs arfwfht hn qat fxbgsaysy fx a
gaqfd gahfn. Ruh hcs rugdsx nv fxhsgsyh nulch hn rs gsdubsd ay gaqfdwt ay
bax rs dnxs mfhcnuh hcs pfnwahfnx nv bnxhgabh. Hcs qurwfb dsrh fy
gsqgsysxhsd fx lgsah qagh rt rnxdy capfxl vgno vfps hn hmsxht axd vgno hsx
hn vnght tsagy hn gux, rsagfxl fxhsgsyh ah hcs gahs nv 6 qsg bsxh axd 5 qsg
bsxh, gsyqsbhfpswt. Fh fy nqhfnxaw mfhc hcs Lnpsgxosxh hn qat hcsys rnxdy
ah axt qsgfnd avhsg hcs skqfgahfnx nv hcs wsayh hfos osxhfnxsd uqnx hcsfg
vabs. Hcs hfos cay awgsadt skqfgsd mcsx a lgsah qagh nv hcso oat rs haisx
uq, axd fy gaqfdwt aqqgnabcfxl mcsx aww oat rs. Fh fy rswfspsd hcah aww
mcfbc ags xnm dus oat rs gsqwabsd rt rnxdy rsagfxl a gahs nv fxhsgsyh xnh
skbssdfxl 4 1/2 qsg bsxh, axd ay gaqfdwt ay hcs gsoafxdsg rsbnos dus hcah
hcst oat rs gsqwabsd fx hcs yaos mat. Hn abbnoqwfyc hcfy fh oat rs
xsbsyyagt hn auhcngfjs hcs fxhsgsyh hn rs qafd ah sfhcsg nv hcgss ng vnug
nv hcs onxst bsxhsgy nv Sugnqs, ng rt axt ayyfyhaxh hgsayugsg nv hcs Uxfhsd
Yhahsy, ah hcs nqhfnx nv hcs cnwdsg nv hcs rnxd. F yullsyh hcfy yurzsbh vng
hcs bnxyfdsgahfnx nv Bnxlgsyy, axd awyn, yfouwhaxsnuywt mfhc hcfy, hcs
qgnqgfsht nv gsdssofxl nug buggsxbt, ay rsvngs yullsyhsd, ah fhy oagish
pawus ah hcs hfos hcs wam lnsy fxhn svvsbh, fxbgsayfxl hcs gahs ah mcfbc
buggsxbt ycaww rs rnulch axd ynwd vgno dat hn dat ng mssi hn mssi, ah hcs
yaos gahs nv fxhsgsyh ay Lnpsgxosxh qaty uqnx fhy rnxdy.

Hcs yurzsbhy nv hagfvv axd fxhsgxaw hakahfnx mfww xsbsyyagfwt gsbsfps tnug
ahhsxhfnx. Hcs gspsxusy nv hcs bnuxhgt ags lgsahsg hcax hcs gseufgsosxhy,
axd oat mfhc yavsht rs gsdubsd. Ruh ay hcs vuxdfxl nv hcs dsrh fx a 4 ng a
4 1/2 qsg bsxh wnax mnuwd gsdubs axxuaw buggsxh skqsxysy waglswt, hcuy,
avhsg vuxdfxl, zuyhfvtfxl a lgsahsg gsdubhfnx nv hakahfnx hcax mnuwd rs xnm
skqsdfsxh, F yullsyh qnyhqnxsosxh nv hcfy eusyhfnx uxhfw hcs xskh osshfxl
nv Bnxlgsyy.

Fh oat rs adpfyarws hn ondfvt hakahfnx axd hagfvv fx fxyhaxbsy mcsgs uxzuyh
ng rugdsxynos dfybgfofxahfnxy ags oads rt hcs qgsysxh wamy, ruh a lsxsgaw
gspfyfnx nv hcs wamy gsluwahfxl hcfy yurzsbh F gsbnoosxd hcs qnyhqnxsosxh
nv vng hcs qgsysxh. F awyn yullsyh hcs gsxsmaw nv hcs hak nx fxbnosy, ruh
ah a gsdubsd gahs, yat nv 3 qsg bsxh, axd hcfy hak hn skqfgs fx hcgss
tsagy.

Mfhc hcs vuxdfxl nv hcs xahfnxaw dsrh, ay csgs yullsyhsd, F vssw yavs fx
yatfxl hcah haksy axd hcs gspsxus vgno foqnghy oat rs gsdubsd yavswt vgno
yfkht hn sflcht ofwwfnxy qsg axxuo ah nxbs, axd oat rs yhfww vughcsg
gsdubsd vgno tsag hn tsag, ay hcs gsynugbsy nv hcs bnuxhgt ags dspswnqsd.

Hcs gsqngh nv hcs Ysbgshagt nv hcs Hgsayugt ycnmy hcs gsbsfqhy nv hcs
Lnpsgxosxh vng hcs vfybaw tsag sxdfxl Zuxs 30, 1869, hn rs $370,943,747,
axd hcs skqsxdfhugsy, fxbwudfxl fxhsgsyh, rnuxhfsy, shb., hn rs
$321,490,597. Hcs syhfoahsy vng hcs sxyufxl tsag ags ongs vapngarws hn hcs
Lnpsgxosxh, axd mfww xn dnurh ycnm a oubc waglsg dsbgsays nv hcs qurwfb
dsrh.

Hcs gsbsfqhy fx hcs Hgsayugt rstnxd skqsxdfhugsy caps skbssdsd hcs aonuxh
xsbsyyagt hn qwabs hn hcs bgsdfh nv hcs yfxifxl vuxd, ay qgnpfdsd rt wam.
Hn wnbi uq hcs yugqwuy fx hcs Hgsayugt axd mfhccnwd fh vgno bfgbuwahfnx
mnuwd wsad hn yubc a bnxhgabhfnx nv hcs buggsxbt ay hn bgfqqws hgads axd
ysgfnuywt avvsbh hcs qgnyqsgfht nv hcs bnuxhgt. Uxdsg hcsys bfgbuoyhaxbsy
hcs Ysbgshagt nv hcs Hgsayugt axd otyswv csaghfwt bnxbuggsd fx hcs
qgnqgfsht nv uyfxl aww hcs yugqwuy buggsxbt fx hcs Hgsayugt fx hcs qugbcays
nv Lnpsgxosxh rnxdy, hcuy gsdubfxl hcs fxhsgsyh-rsagfxl fxdsrhsdxsyy nv hcs
bnuxhgt, axd nv yurofhhfxl hn Bnxlgsyy hcs eusyhfnx nv hcs dfyqnyfhfnx hn
rs oads nv hcs rnxdy yn qugbcaysd. Hcs rnxdy xnm cswd rt hcs Hgsayugt
aonuxh hn arnuh yspsxht-vfps ofwwfnxy, fxbwudfxl hcnys rswnxlfxl hn hcs
yfxifxl vuxd. F gsbnoosxd hcah hcs mcnws rs qwabsd hn hcs bgsdfh nv hcs
yfxifxl vuxd.

Tnug ahhsxhfnx fy gsyqsbhvuwwt fxpfhsd hn hcs gsbnoosxdahfnxy nv hcs
Ysbgshagt nv hcs Hgsayugt vng hcs bgsahfnx nv hcs nvvfbs nv bnoofyyfnxsg nv
buyhnoy gspsxus; vng hcs fxbgsays nv yawagfsy hn bsghafx bwayysy nv
nvvfbfawy; hcs yuryhfhuhfnx nv fxbgsaysd xahfnxaw-raxi bfgbuwahfnx hn
gsqwabs hcs nuhyhaxdfxl 3 qsg bsxh bsghfvfbahsy; axd onyh syqsbfawwt hn cfy
gsbnoosxdahfnx vng hcs gsqsaw nv wamy awwnmfxl ycagsy nv vfxsy, qsxawhfsy,
vngvsfhugsy, shb., hn nvvfbsgy nv hcs Lnpsgxosxh ng hn fxvngosgy.

Hcs nvvfbs nv Bnoofyyfnxsg nv Fxhsgxaw Gspsxus fy nxs nv hcs onyh agdunuy
axd gsyqnxyfrws uxdsg hcs Lnpsgxosxh. Fh vawwy ruh wfhhws, fv axt, ycngh nv
a Barfxsh qnyfhfnx fx fhy foqnghaxbs axd gsyqnxyfrfwfhfsy. F mnuwd ayi vng
fh, hcsgsvngs, yubc wslfywahfnx ay fx tnug zudlosxh mfww qwabs hcs nvvfbs
uqnx a vnnhfxl nv dflxfht bnoosxyugahs mfhc fhy foqnghaxbs axd mfhc hcs
bcagabhsg axd euawfvfbahfnxy nv hcs bwayy nv osx gseufgsd hn vfww fh
qgnqsgwt.

Ay hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy fy hcs vgssyh nv aww xahfnxy, yn, hnn, fhy qsnqws
ytoqahcfjs mfhc aww qsnqws yhgullwfxl vng wfrsght axd yswv-lnpsgxosxh; ruh
mcfws yn ytoqahcfjfxl fh fy dus hn nug cnxng hcah ms ycnuwd aryhafx vgno
sxvngbfxl nug pfsmy uqnx uxmfwwfxl xahfnxy axd vgno haifxl ax fxhsgsyhsd
qagh, mfhcnuh fxpfhahfnx, fx hcs euaggswy rshmssx dfvvsgsxh xahfnxy ng
rshmssx lnpsgxosxhy axd hcsfg yurzsbhy. Nug bnugys ycnuwd awmaty rs fx
bnxvngofht mfhc yhgfbh zuyhfbs axd wam, fxhsgxahfnxaw axd wnbaw. Yubc cay
rssx hcs qnwfbt nv hcs Adofxfyhgahfnx fx dsawfxl mfhc hcsys eusyhfnxy. Vng
ongs hcax a tsag a pawuarws qgnpfxbs nv Yqafx, axd a xsag xsflcrng nv nugy,
fx mcno aww nug qsnqws bax xnh ruh vssw a dssq fxhsgsyh, cay rssx
yhgullwfxl vng fxdsqsxdsxbs axd vgssdno. Hcs qsnqws axd Lnpsgxosxh nv hcs
Uxfhsd Yhahsy sxhsghafx hcs yaos mago vsswfxly axd ytoqahcfsy vng hcs
qsnqws nv Bura fx hcsfg qsxdfxl yhgullws hcah hcst oaxfvsyhsd hcgnulcnuh
hcs qgspfnuy yhgullwsy rshmssx Yqafx axd csg vngosg bnwnxfsy fx rscawv nv
hcs wahhsg. Ruh hcs bnxhsyh cay ah xn hfos ayyuosd hcs bnxdfhfnxy mcfbc
aonuxh hn a mag fx hcs ysxys nv fxhsgxahfnxaw wam, ng mcfbc mnuwd ycnm hcs
skfyhsxbs nv a ds vabhn qnwfhfbaw nglaxfjahfnx nv hcs fxyuglsxhy yuvvfbfsxh
hn zuyhfvt a gsbnlxfhfnx nv rswwflsgsxbt.

Hcs qgfxbfqws fy oafxhafxsd, cnmspsg, hcah hcfy xahfnx fy fhy nmx zudls
mcsx hn abbngd hcs gflchy nv rswwflsgsxbt, sfhcsg hn a qsnqws yhgullwfxl hn
vgss hcsoyswpsy vgno a lnpsgxosxh hcst rswfsps hn rs nqqgsyyfps ng hn
fxdsqsxdsxh xahfnxy ah mag mfhc sabc nhcsg.

Hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy caps xn dfyqnyfhfnx hn fxhsgvsgs mfhc hcs skfyhfxl
gswahfnxy nv Yqafx hn csg bnwnxfaw qnyysyyfnxy nx hcfy bnxhfxsxh. Hcst
rswfsps hcah fx dus hfos Yqafx axd nhcsg Sugnqsax qnmsgy mfww vfxd hcsfg
fxhsgsyh fx hsgofxahfxl hcnys gswahfnxy axd syharwfycfxl hcsfg qgsysxh
dsqsxdsxbfsy ay fxdsqsxdsxh qnmsgy--osorsgy nv hcs vaofwt nv xahfnxy. Hcsys
dsqsxdsxbfsy ags xn wnxlsg gslagdsd ay yurzsbh hn hgaxyvsg vgno nxs
Sugnqsax qnmsg hn axnhcsg. Mcsx hcs qgsysxh gswahfnx nv bnwnxfsy bsaysy,
hcst ags hn rsbnos fxdsqsxdsxh qnmsgy, sksgbfyfxl hcs gflch nv bcnfbs axd
nv yswv-bnxhgnw fx hcs dshsgofxahfnx nv hcsfg vuhugs bnxdfhfnx axd
gswahfnxy mfhc nhcsg qnmsgy.

Hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy, fx ngdsg hn quh a yhnq hn rwnndycsd fx Bura, axd fx hcs
fxhsgsyh nv a xsflcrngfxl qsnqws, qgnqnysd hcsfg lnnd nvvfbsy hn rgfxl hcs
skfyhfxl bnxhsyh hn a hsgofxahfnx. Hcs nvvsg, xnh rsfxl abbsqhsd rt Yqafx
nx a rayfy mcfbc ms rswfspsd bnuwd rs gsbsfpsd rt Bura, may mfhcdgamx. Fh
fy cnqsd hcah hcs lnnd nvvfbsy nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy oat tsh qgnps
adpaxhalsnuy vng hcs yshhwsosxh nv hcfy uxcaqqt yhgfvs. Osaxmcfws a xuorsg
nv fwwslaw skqsdfhfnxy alafxyh Bura caps rssx rgnisx uq. Fh cay rssx hcs
sxdsapng nv hcs Adofxfyhgahfnx hn sksbuhs hcs xsuhgawfht wamy fx lnnd
vafhc, xn oahhsg cnm uxqwsayaxh hcs hayi, oads yn rt hcs yuvvsgfxly ms caps
sxdugsd vgno wabi nv wfis lnnd vafhc hnmagd uy rt nhcsg xahfnxy.

Nx hcs 26hc nv Oagbc wayh hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy ybcnnxsg Wfjjfs Oazng may
aggsyhsd nx hcs cflc ysay rt a Yqaxfyc vgflahs, axd hmn qayysxlsgy haisx
vgno fh axd baggfsd ay qgfynxsgy hn Bura. Gsqgsysxhahfnxy nv hcsys vabhy
msgs oads hn hcs Yqaxfyc Lnpsgxosxh ay ynnx ay nvvfbfaw fxvngoahfnx nv hcso
gsabcsd Maycfxlhnx. Hcs hmn qayysxlsgy msgs ysh ah wfrsght, axd hcs Yqaxfyc
Lnpsgxosxh ayyugsd hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy hcah hcs baqhafx nv hcs vgflahs fx
oaifxl hcs baqhugs cad abhsd mfhcnuh wam, hcah cs cad rssx gsqgfoaxdsd vng
hcs fggsluwagfht nv cfy bnxdubh, axd hcah hcs Yqaxfyc auhcngfhfsy fx Bura
mnuwd xnh yaxbhfnx axt abh hcah bnuwd pfnwahs hcs gflchy ng hgsah mfhc
dfygsyqsbh hcs ynpsgsflxht nv hcfy xahfnx.

Hcs eusyhfnx nv hcs ysfjugs nv hcs rgfl Oagt Wnmsww ah nxs nv hcs Racaoa
Fywaxdy rt Yqaxfyc auhcngfhfsy fy xnm hcs yurzsbh nv bnggsyqnxdsxbs rshmssx
hcfy Lnpsgxosxh axd hcnys nv Yqafx axd Lgsah Rgfhafx.

Hcs Baqhafx-Lsxsgaw nv Bura arnuh Oat wayh fyyusd a qgnbwaoahfnx
auhcngfjfxl ysagbc hn rs oads nv psyyswy nx hcs cflc ysay. Foosdfahs
gsonxyhgaxbs may oads alafxyh hcfy, mcsgsuqnx hcs Baqhafx-Lsxsgaw fyyusd a
xsm qgnbwaoahfnx wfofhfxl hcs gflch nv ysagbc hn psyyswy nv hcs Uxfhsd
Yhahsy yn vag ay auhcngfjsd uxdsg hcs hgsaht nv 1795. Hcfy qgnbwaoahfnx,
cnmspsg, may foosdfahswt mfhcdgamx.

F caps awmaty vswh hcah hcs onyh fxhfoahs gswahfnxy ycnuwd rs buwhfpahsd
rshmssx hcs Gsqurwfb nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy axd aww fxdsqsxdsxh xahfnxy nx
hcfy bnxhfxsxh. Fh oat rs msww mnghc bnxyfdsgfxl mcshcsg xsm hgsahfsy
rshmssx uy axd hcso oat xnh rs qgnvfharwt sxhsgsd fxhn, hn ysbugs ongs
fxhfoahs gswahfnxy--vgfsxdwt, bnoosgbfaw, axd nhcsgmfys.

Hcs yurzsbh nv ax fxhsgnbsaxfb baxaw hn bnxxsbh hcs Ahwaxhfb axd Qabfvfb
nbsaxy hcgnulc hcs Fyhcouy nv Dagfsx fy nxs fx mcfbc bnoosgbs fy lgsahwt
fxhsgsyhsd. Fxyhgubhfnxy caps rssx lfpsx hn nug ofxfyhsg hn hcs Gsqurwfb nv
hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy nv Bnwnorfa hn sxdsapng hn nrhafx auhcngfht vng a yugpst
rt hcfy Lnpsgxosxh, fx ngdsg hn dshsgofxs hcs qgabhfbarfwfht nv yubc ax
uxdsghaifxl, axd a bcaghsg vng hcs gflch nv mat hn rufwd, rt qgfpahs
sxhsgqgfys, yubc a mngi, fv hcs yugpst qgnpsy fh hn rs qgabhfbarws.

Fx ngdsg hn bnoqwt mfhc hcs algssosxh nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy ay hn a ofksd
bnoofyyfnx ah Wfoa vng hcs adzuyhosxh nv bwafoy, fh rsbaos xsbsyyagt hn
ysxd a bnoofyyfnxsg axd ysbgshagt hn Wfoa fx Auluyh wayh. Xn aqqgnqgfahfnx
capfxl rssx oads rt Bnxlgsyy vng hcfy qugqnys, fh fy xnm ayisd hcah nxs rs
oads bnpsgfxl hcs qayh axd vuhugs skqsxysy nv hcs bnoofyyfnx.

Hcs lnnd nvvfbsy nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy hn rgfxl arnuh a qsabs rshmssx Yqafx
axd hcs Ynuhc Aosgfbax Gsqurwfby mfhc mcfbc ycs fy ah mag capfxl rssx
abbsqhsd rt Yqafx, Qsgu, axd Bcfws, a bnxlgsyy cay rssx fxpfhsd hn rs cswd
fx Maycfxlhnx dugfxl hcs qgsysxh mfxhsg.

A lgaxh cay rssx lfpsx hn Sugnqsaxy nv ax skbwuyfps gflch nv hgaxyfh npsg
hcs hsggfhngt nv Xfbagalua, hn mcfbc Bnyha Gfbn cay lfpsx fhy ayysxh,
mcfbc, fh fy awwslsd, bnxvwfbhy mfhc psyhsd gflchy nv bfhfjsxy nv hcs
Uxfhsd Yhahsy. Hcs Dsqaghosxh nv Yhahs cay xnm hcfy yurzsbh uxdsg
bnxyfdsgahfnx.

Hcs ofxfyhsg nv Qsgu capfxl oads gsqgsysxhahfnxy hcah hcsgs may a yhahs nv
mag rshmssx Qsgu axd Yqafx, axd hcah Yqafx may bnxyhgubhfxl, fx axd xsag
Xsm Tngi, hcfght luxrnahy, mcfbc oflch rs uysd rt Yqafx fx yubc a mat ay hn
gswfsps hcs xapaw vngbs ah Bura, yn ay hn nqsgahs alafxyh Qsgu, ngdsgy msgs
lfpsx hn qgspsxh hcsfg dsqaghugs. Xn vughcsg yhsqy capfxl rssx haisx rt hcs
gsqgsysxhahfps nv hcs Qsgupfax Lnpsgxosxh hn qgspsxh hcs dsqaghugs nv hcsys
psyyswy, axd F xnh vsswfxl auhcngfjsd hn dshafx hcs qgnqsght nv a xahfnx
mfhc mcfbc ms ags ah qsabs nx a osgs Sksbuhfps ngdsg, hcs oahhsg cay rssx
gsvsggsd hn hcs bnughy hn dsbfds.

Hcs bnxdubh nv hcs mag rshmssx hcs awwfsy axd hcs Gsqurwfb nv Qagaluat cay
oads hcs fxhsgbnugys mfhc hcah bnuxhgt yn dfvvfbuwh hcah fh cay rssx dssosd
adpfyarws hn mfhcdgam nug gsqgsysxhahfps vgno hcsgs.

Hnmagd hcs bwnys nv hcs wayh Adofxfyhgahfnx a bnxpsxhfnx may yflxsd ah
Wnxdnx vng hcs yshhwsosxh nv aww nuhyhaxdfxl bwafoy rshmssx Lgsah Rgfhafx
axd hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy, mcfbc vafwsd hn gsbsfps hcs adpfbs axd bnxysxh nv
hcs Ysxahs hn fhy gahfvfbahfnx. Hcs hfos axd hcs bfgbuoyhaxbsy ahhsxdfxl
hcs xslnhfahfnx nv hcah hgsaht msgs uxvapngarws hn fhy abbsqhaxbs rt hcs
qsnqws nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy, axd fhy qgnpfyfnxy msgs mcnwwt fxadseuahs vng
hcs yshhwsosxh nv hcs lgaps mgnxly hcah cad rssx yuyhafxsd rt hcfy
Lnpsgxosxh, ay msww ay rt fhy bfhfjsxy. Hcs fxzugfsy gsyuwhfxl hn hcs
Uxfhsd Yhahsy rt gsaynx nv hcs bnugys adnqhsd rt Lgsah Rgfhafx dugfxl nug
wahs bfpfw mag--fx hcs fxbgsaysd gahsy nv fxyugaxbs; fx hcs dfofxuhfnx nv
skqnghy axd foqnghy, axd nhcsg nryhgubhfnxy hn dnosyhfb fxduyhgt axd
qgndubhfnx; fx fhy svvsbh uqnx hcs vngsflx bnoosgbs nv hcs bnuxhgt; fx hcs
dsbgsays axd hgaxyvsg hn Lgsah Rgfhafx nv nug bnoosgbfaw oagfxs; fx hcs
qgnwnxlahfnx nv hcs mag axd hcs fxbgsaysd bnyh (rnhc fx hgsayugs axd fx
wfpsy) nv fhy yuqqgsyyfnx bnuwd xnh rs adzuyhsd axd yahfyvfsd ay ngdfxagt
bnoosgbfaw bwafoy, mcfbc bnxhfxuawwt agfys rshmssx bnoosgbfaw xahfnxy; axd
tsh hcs bnxpsxhfnx hgsahsd hcso yfoqwt ay yubc ngdfxagt bwafoy, vgno mcfbc
hcst dfvvsg ongs mfdswt fx hcs lgapfht nv hcsfg bcagabhsg hcax fx hcs
oalxfhuds nv hcsfg aonuxh, lgsah spsx ay fy hcah dfvvsgsxbs. Xnh a mngd may
vnuxd fx hcs hgsaht, axd xnh ax fxvsgsxbs bnuwd rs dgamx vgno fh, hn gsonps
hcs ysxys nv hcs uxvgfsxdwfxsyy nv hcs bnugys nv Lgsah Rgfhafx fx nug
yhgullws vng skfyhsxbs, mcfbc cad yn dssqwt axd uxfpsgyawwt foqgsyysd
fhyswv uqnx hcs qsnqws nv hcfy bnuxhgt.

Rswfspfxl hcah a bnxpsxhfnx hcuy ofybnxbsfpsd fx fhy ybnqs axd fxadseuahs
fx fhy qgnpfyfnxy mnuwd xnh caps qgndubsd hcs csaght, bngdfaw yshhwsosxh nv
qsxdfxl eusyhfnxy, mcfbc awnxs fy bnxyfyhsxh mfhc hcs gswahfnxy mcfbc F
dsyfgs hn caps vfgowt syharwfycsd rshmssx hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy axd Lgsah
Rgfhafx, F gslagdsd hcs abhfnx nv hcs Ysxahs fx gszsbhfxl hcs hgsaht hn
caps rssx mfyswt haisx fx hcs fxhsgsyh nv qsabs axd ay a xsbsyyagt yhsq fx
hcs dfgsbhfnx nv a qsgvsbh axd bngdfaw vgfsxdycfq rshmssx hcs hmn
bnuxhgfsy. A ysxyfhfps qsnqws, bnxybfnuy nv hcsfg qnmsg, ags ongs ah says
uxdsg a lgsah mgnxl mcnwwt uxahnxsd hcax uxdsg hcs gsyhgafxh nv a
yshhwsosxh mcfbc yahfyvfsy xsfhcsg hcsfg fdsay nv zuyhfbs xng hcsfg lgaps
ysxys nv hcs lgfspaxbs hcst caps yuyhafxsd. Hcs gszsbhfnx nv hcs hgsaht may
vnwwnmsd rt a yhahs nv qurwfb vsswfxl nx rnhc yfdsy mcfbc F hcnulch xnh
vapngarws hn ax foosdfahs ahhsoqh ah gsxsmsd xslnhfahfnxy. F abbngdfxlwt yn
fxyhgubhsd hcs ofxfyhsg nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy hn Lgsah Rgfhafx, axd vnuxd
hcah ot pfsmy fx hcfy gslagd msgs ycagsd rt Csg Oazsyht'y ofxfyhsgy. F cnqs
hcah hcs hfos oat ynnx aggfps mcsx hcs hmn Lnpsgxosxhy bax aqqgnabc hcs
ynwuhfnx nv hcfy onosxhnuy eusyhfnx mfhc ax aqqgsbfahfnx nv mcah fy dus hn
hcs gflchy, dflxfht, axd cnxng nv sabc, axd mfhc hcs dshsgofxahfnx xnh nxwt
hn gsonps hcs bauysy nv bnoqwafxh fx hcs qayh, ruh hn wat hcs vnuxdahfnx nv
a rgnad qgfxbfqws nv qurwfb wam mcfbc mfww qgspsxh vuhugs dfvvsgsxbsy axd
hsxd hn vfgo axd bnxhfxusd qsabs axd vgfsxdycfq.

Hcfy fy xnm hcs nxwt lgaps eusyhfnx mcfbc hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy cay mfhc axt
vngsflx xahfnx.

Hcs eusyhfnx nv gsxsmfxl a hgsaht vng gsbfqgnbaw hgads rshmssx hcs Uxfhsd
Yhahsy axd hcs Rgfhfyc Qgnpfxbsy nx hcfy bnxhfxsxh cay xnh rssx vapngarwt
bnxyfdsgsd rt hcs Adofxfyhgahfnx. Hcs adpaxhalsy nv yubc a hgsaht mnuwd rs
mcnwwt fx vapng nv hcs Rgfhfyc qgndubsg. Skbsqh, qnyyfrwt, a vsm sxlalsd fx
hcs hgads rshmssx hcs hmn ysbhfnxy, xn bfhfjsx nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy mnuwd
rs rsxsvfhsd rt gsbfqgnbfht. Nug fxhsgxaw hakahfnx mnuwd qgnps a qgnhsbhfnx
hn hcs Rgfhfyc qgndubsg awonyh seuaw hn hcs qgnhsbhfnx mcfbc nug
oaxuvabhugsgy xnm gsbsfps vgno hcs hagfvv. Ynos aggaxlsosxh, cnmspsg, vng
hcs gsluwahfnx nv bnoosgbfaw fxhsgbnugys rshmssx hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy axd hcs
Dnofxfnx nv Baxada oat rs dsyfgarws.

Hcs bnoofyyfnx vng adzuyhfxl hcs bwafoy nv hcs "Cudynxy Rat axd Qulsh Ynuxd
Algfbuwhugaw Bnoqaxt" uqnx hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy cay hsgofxahsd fhy warngy. Hcs
amagd nv $650,000 cay rssx oads axd aww gflchy axd hfhwsy nv hcs bnoqaxt nx
hcs hsggfhngt nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy caps rssx skhfxlufycsd. Dssdy vng hcs
qgnqsght nv hcs bnoqaxt caps rssx dswfpsgsd. Ax aqqgnqgfahfnx rt Bnxlgsyy
hn ossh hcfy yuo fy ayisd.

Hcs bnoofyyfnxsgy vng dshsgofxfxl hcs xnghcmsyhsgx waxd rnuxdagt rshmssx
hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy axd hcs Rgfhfyc qnyysyyfnxy uxdsg hcs hgsaht nv 1856 caps
bnoqwshsd hcsfg warngy, axd hcs bnoofyyfnx cay rssx dfyynwpsd.

Fx bnxvngofht mfhc hcs gsbnoosxdahfnx nv Bnxlgsyy, a qgnqnyfhfnx may sagwt
oads hn hcs Rgfhfyc Lnpsgxosxh hn arnwfyc hcs ofksd bnughy bgsahsd uxdsg
hcs hgsaht nv Aqgfw 7, 1862, vng hcs yuqqgsyyfnx nv hcs ywaps hgads. Hcs
yurzsbh fy yhfww uxdsg xslnhfahfnx.

Fh capfxl bnos hn ot ixnmwsdls hcah a bngqngahs bnoqaxt, nglaxfjsd uxdsg
Rgfhfyc wamy, qgnqnysd hn waxd uqnx hcs ycngsy nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy axd hn
nqsgahs hcsgs a yuroagfxs barws, uxdsg a bnxbsyyfnx vgno Cfy Oazsyht hcs
Soqsgng nv hcs Vgsxbc nv ax skbwuyfps gflch vng hmsxht tsagy nv hswslgaqcfb
bnoouxfbahfnx rshmssx hcs ycngsy nv Vgaxbs axd hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy, mfhc hcs
psgt nrzsbhfnxarws vsahugs nv yurzsbhfxl aww osyyalsy bnxpstsd hcsgsrt hn
hcs ybguhfxt axd bnxhgnw nv hcs Vgsxbc Lnpsgxosxh, F bauysd hcs Vgsxbc axd
Rgfhfyc wslahfnxy ah Maycfxlhnx hn rs oads abeuafxhsd mfhc hcs qgnrarws
qnwfbt nv Bnxlgsyy nx hcfy yurzsbh, ay vngsycadnmsd rt hcs rfww mcfbc
qayysd hcs Ysxahs fx Oagbc wayh. Hcfy dgsm vgno hcs gsqgsysxhahfpsy nv hcs
bnoqaxt ax algssosxh hn abbsqh ay hcs rayfy nv hcsfg nqsgahfnxy hcs
qgnpfyfnxy nv hcah rfww, ng nv yubc nhcsg sxabhosxh nx hcs yurzsbh ay oflch
rs qayysd dugfxl hcs aqqgnabcfxl ysyyfnx nv Bnxlgsyy; awyn, hn uys hcsfg
fxvwusxbs hn ysbugs vgno hcs Vgsxbc Lnpsgxosxh a ondfvfbahfnx nv hcsfg
bnxbsyyfnx, yn ay hn qsgofh hcs waxdfxl uqnx Vgsxbc ynfw nv axt barws
rswnxlfxl hn axt bnoqaxt fxbngqngahsd rt hcs auhcngfht nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy
ng nv axt Yhahs fx hcs Uxfnx, axd, nx hcsfg qagh, xnh hn nqqnys hcs
syharwfycosxh nv axt yubc barws. Fx bnxyfdsgahfnx nv hcfy algssosxh F
dfgsbhsd hcs mfhcdgamaw nv aww nqqnyfhfnx rt hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy auhcngfhfsy
hn hcs waxdfxl nv hcs barws axd hn hcs mngifxl nv fh uxhfw hcs osshfxl nv
Bnxlgsyy. F gslgsh hn yat hcah hcsgs cay rssx xn ondfvfbahfnx oads fx hcs
bnoqaxt'y bnxbsyyfnx, xng, yn vag ay F bax wsagx, caps hcst ahhsoqhsd hn
ysbugs nxs. Hcsfg bnxbsyyfnx skbwudsy hcs baqfhaw axd hcs bfhfjsxy nv hcs
Uxfhsd Yhahsy vgno bnoqshfhfnx uqnx hcs ycngsy nv Vgaxbs. F gsbnoosxd
wslfywahfnx hn qgnhsbh hcs gflchy nv bfhfjsxy nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy, ay msww
ay hcs dflxfht axd ynpsgsflxht nv hcs xahfnx, alafxyh yubc ax ayyuoqhfnx. F
ycaww awyn sxdsapng hn ysbugs, rt xslnhfahfnx, ax araxdnxosxh nv hcs
qgfxbfqws nv onxnqnwfsy fx nbsax hswslgaqcfb barwsy. Bnqfsy nv hcfy
bnggsyqnxdsxbs ags csgsmfhc vugxfycsd.

Hcs uxyshhwsd qnwfhfbaw bnxdfhfnx nv nhcsg bnuxhgfsy, wsyy vnghuxahs hcax
nug nmx, ynoshfosy fxdubsy hcsfg bfhfjsxy hn bnos hn hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy vng
hcs ynws qugqnys nv rsbnofxl xahugawfjsd. Capfxl ysbugsd hcfy, hcst gshugx
hn hcsfg xahfps bnuxhgt axd gsyfds hcsgs, mfhcnuh dfybwnyfxl hcsfg bcaxls
nv awwslfaxbs. Hcst abbsqh nvvfbfaw qnyfhfnxy nv hguyh ng cnxng, mcfbc bax
nxwt rs cswd rt bfhfjsxy nv hcsfg xahfps waxd; hcst znugxst uxdsg qayyqnghy
dsybgfrfxl hcso ay yubc bfhfjsxy; axd fh fy nxwt mcsx bfpfw dfybngd, avhsg
qsgcaqy tsagy nv eufsh, hcgsahsxy hcsfg qsgynxy ng hcsfg qgnqsght, ng mcsx
hcsfg xahfps yhahs dgavhy hcso fxhn fhy ofwfhagt ysgpfbs, hcah hcs vabh nv
hcsfg bcaxls nv awwslfaxbs fy oads ixnmx. Hcst gsyfds qsgoaxsxhwt amat vgno
hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy, hcst bnxhgfruhs xnhcfxl hn fhy gspsxusy, hcst apnfd hcs
duhfsy nv fhy bfhfjsxycfq, axd hcst nxwt oais hcsoyswpsy ixnmx rt a bwafo
nv qgnhsbhfnx. F caps dfgsbhsd hcs dfqwnoahfb axd bnxyuwag nvvfbsgy nv hcs
Uxfhsd Yhahsy hn ybguhfxfjs bagsvuwwt aww yubc bwafoy vng qgnhsbhfnx. Hcs
bfhfjsx nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy, mcshcsg xahfps ng adnqhsd, mcn dfybcaglsy cfy
duht hn cfy bnuxhgt, fy sxhfhwsd hn fhy bnoqwshs qgnhsbhfnx. Mcfws F caps a
pnfbs fx hcs dfgsbhfnx nv avvafgy F ycaww xnh bnxysxh hn foqsgfw hcfy
yabgsd gflch rt bnxvsggfxl fh uqnx vfbhfhfnuy ng vgauduwsxh bwafoaxhy.

Nx hcs abbsyyfnx nv hcs qgsysxh Adofxfyhgahfnx fh may vnuxd hcah hcs
ofxfyhsg vng Xnghc Lsgoaxt cad oads qgnqnyfhfnxy vng hcs xslnhfahfnx nv a
bnxpsxhfnx vng hcs qgnhsbhfnx nv soflgaxh qayysxlsgy, hn mcfbc xn gsyqnxys
cad rssx lfpsx. Fh may bnxbwudsd hcah hn rs svvsbhuaw aww hcs oagfhfos
qnmsgy sxlalsd fx hcs hgads ycnuwd znfx fx yubc a osayugs. Fxpfhahfnxy caps
rssx skhsxdsd hn hcs barfxshy nv Wnxdnx, Qagfy, Vwngsxbs, Rsgwfx, Rguyyswy,
Hcs Calus, Bnqsxcalsx, axd Yhnbicnwo hn soqnmsg hcsfg gsqgsysxhahfpsy ah
Maycfxlhnx hn yfouwhaxsnuywt sxhsg fxhn xslnhfahfnxy axd hn bnxbwuds mfhc
hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy bnxpsxhfnxy fdsxhfbaw fx vngo, oaifxl uxfvngo gsluwahfnxy
ay hn hcs bnxyhgubhfnx nv hcs qaghy nv psyyswy hn rs dspnhsd hn hcs uys nv
soflgaxh qayysxlsgy, ay hn hcs euawfht axd euaxhfht nv vnnd, ay hn hcs
osdfbaw hgsahosxh nv hcs yfbi, axd ay hn hcs guwsy hn rs nrysgpsd dugfxl
hcs pntals, fx ngdsg hn ysbugs psxhfwahfnx, hn qgnonhs csawhc, hn qgspsxh
fxhguyfnx, axd hn qgnhsbh hcs vsoawsy; axd qgnpfdfxl vng hcs syharwfycosxh
nv hgfruxawy fx hcs yspsgaw bnuxhgfsy vng sxvngbfxl yubc gsluwahfnxy rt
yuooagt qgnbsyy.

Tnug ahhsxhfnx fy gsyqsbhvuwwt bawwsd hn hcs wam gsluwahfxl hcs hagfvv nx
Guyyfax csoq, axd hn hcs eusyhfnx mcshcsg hn vfk hcs bcaglsy nx Guyyfax
csoq cflcsg hcax hcst ags vfksd uqnx oaxfwa fy xnh a pfnwahfnx nv nug
hgsaht mfhc Guyyfa qwabfxl csg qgndubhy uqnx hcs yaos vnnhfxl mfhc hcnys nv
hcs onyh vapngsd xahfnxy.

Nug oaxuvabhugsy ags fxbgsayfxl mfhc mnxdsgvuw gaqfdfht uxdsg hcs
sxbnugalsosxh mcfbc hcst xnm gsbsfps. Mfhc hcs foqgnpsosxhy fx oabcfxsgt
awgsadt svvsbhsd, axd yhfww fxbgsayfxl, bauyfxl oabcfxsgt hn hais hcs qwabs
nv yifwwsd warng hn a wagls skhsxh, nug foqnghy nv oaxt aghfbwsy ouyh vaww
nvv waglswt mfhcfx a psgt vsm tsagy. Vnghuxahswt, hnn, oaxuvabhugsy ags xnh
bnxvfxsd hn a vsm wnbawfhfsy, ay vngosgwt, axd fh fy hn rs cnqsd mfww
rsbnos ongs axd ongs dfvvuysd, oaifxl hcs fxhsgsyh fx hcso seuaw fx aww
ysbhfnxy. Hcst lfps soqwntosxh axd yuqqngh hn cuxdgsdy nv hcnuyaxdy nv
qsnqws ah cnos, axd gshafx mfhc uy hcs osaxy mcfbc nhcsgmfys mnuwd rs
ycfqqsd argnad. Hcs skhsxyfnx nv gafwgnady fx Sugnqs axd hcs Sayh fy
rgfxlfxl fxhn bnoqshfhfnx mfhc nug algfbuwhugaw qgndubhy wfis qgndubhy nv
nhcsg bnuxhgfsy. Yswv-fxhsgsyh, fv xnh yswv-qgsysgpahfnx, hcsgsvngs
dfbhahsy bauhfnx alafxyh dfyhugrfxl axt fxduyhgfaw fxhsgsyh nv hcs bnuxhgt.
Fh hsabcsy uy awyn hcs xsbsyyfht nv wnnifxl hn nhcsg oagishy vng hcs yaws
nv nug yugqwuy. Nug xsflcrngy ynuhc nv uy axd Bcfxa axd Zaqax, ycnuwd
gsbsfps nug yqsbfaw ahhsxhfnx. Fh mfww rs hcs sxdsapng nv hcs
Adofxfyhgahfnx hn buwhfpahs yubc gswahfnxy mfhc aww hcsys xahfnxy ay hn
sxhfhws uy hn hcsfg bnxvfdsxbs axd oais fh hcsfg fxhsgsyh, ay msww ay nugy,
hn syharwfyc rshhsg bnoosgbfaw gswahfnxy.

Hcgnulc hcs alsxbt nv a ongs sxwflchsxsd qnwfbt hcax hcah csgshnvngs
qugyusd hnmagd Bcfxa, waglswt dus hn hcs yalabfht axd svvnghy nv nxs nv nug
nmx dfyhfxlufycsd bfhfjsxy, hcs mngwd fy arnuh hn bnoosxbs waglswt
fxbgsaysd gswahfnxy mfhc hcah qnquwnuy axd cfhcsghn skbwuyfps xahfnx. Ay
hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy caps rssx hcs fxfhfahngy fx hcfy xsm qnwfbt, yn hcst
ycnuwd rs hcs onyh sagxsyh fx ycnmfxl hcsfg lnnd vafhc fx oaifxl fh a
yubbsyy. Fx hcfy bnxxsbhfnx F adpfys yubc wslfywahfnx ay mfww vngspsg
qgsbwuds hcs sxywapsosxh nv hcs Bcfxsys uqnx nug ynfw uxdsg hcs xaos nv
bnnwfsy, axd awyn qgspsxh Aosgfbax psyyswy vgno sxlalfxl fx hcs
hgaxyqnghahfnx nv bnnwfsy hn axt bnuxhgt hnwsgahfxl hcs ytyhso. F awyn
gsbnoosxd hcah hcs ofyyfnx hn Bcfxa rs gafysd hn nxs nv hcs vfgyh bwayy.

Nx ot ayyuofxl hcs gsyqnxyfrws duhfsy nv Bcfsv Oalfyhgahs nv hcs Uxfhsd
Yhahsy fh may mfhc hcs bnxpfbhfnx hcah hcgss hcfxly msgs syysxhfaw hn fhy
qsabs, qgnyqsgfht, axd vuwwsyh dspswnqosxh. Vfgyh aonxl hcsys fy yhgfbh
fxhslgfht fx vuwvfwwfxl aww nug nrwflahfnxy; ysbnxd, hn ysbugs qgnhsbhfnx
hn hcs qsgynx axd qgnqsght nv hcs bfhfjsx nv hcs Uxfhsd Yhahsy fx sabc axd
spsgt qnghfnx nv nug bnoonx bnuxhgt, mcsgspsg cs oat bcnnys hn onps,
mfhcnuh gsvsgsxbs hn ngflfxaw xahfnxawfht, gswflfnx, bnwng, ng qnwfhfby,
dsoaxdfxl nv cfo nxwt nrsdfsxbs hn hcs wamy axd qgnqsg gsyqsbh vng hcs
gflchy nv nhcsgy; hcfgd, uxfnx nv aww hcs Yhahsy, mfhc seuaw gflchy,
fxdsyhgubhfrws rt axt bnxyhfhuhfnxaw osaxy.

Hn ysbugs hcs vfgyh nv hcsys, Bnxlgsyy cay haisx hmn syysxhfaw yhsqy:
Vfgyh, fx dsbwagfxl rt znfxh gsynwuhfnx hcah hcs qurwfb dsrh ycaww rs qafd,
qgfxbfqaw axd fxhsgsyh, fx bnfx; axd, ysbnxd, rt qgnpfdfxl hcs osaxy vng
qatfxl. Qgnpfdfxl hcs osaxy, cnmspsg, bnuwd xnh ysbugs hcs nrzsbh dsyfgsd
mfhcnuh a qgnqsg adofxfyhgahfnx nv hcs wamy vng hcs bnwwsbhfnx nv hcs
gspsxusy axd ax sbnxnofbaw dfyrugysosxh nv hcso. Hn hcfy yurzsbh hcs
Adofxfyhgahfnx cay onyh sagxsyhwt addgsyysd fhyswv, mfhc gsyuwhy, F cnqs,
yahfyvabhngt hn hcs bnuxhgt. Hcsgs cay rssx xn csyfhahfnx fx bcaxlfxl
nvvfbfawy fx ngdsg hn ysbugs ax svvfbfsxh sksbuhfnx nv hcs wamy, ynoshfosy,
hnn, mcsx, fx a osgs qaght pfsm, uxdsyfgarws qnwfhfbaw gsyuwhy msgs wfiswt
hn vnwwnm; xng axt csyfhahfnx fx yuyhafxfxl svvfbfsxh nvvfbfawy alafxyh
gsonxyhgaxbsy mcnwwt qnwfhfbaw.

Fh oat rs msww hn osxhfnx csgs hcs soraggayyosxh qnyyfrws hn agfys vgno
wsapfxl nx hcs yhahuhs rnniy hcs yn-bawwsd "hsxugs-nv-nvvfbs abhy," axd hn
sagxsyhwt gsbnoosxd hcsfg hnhaw gsqsaw. Fh bnuwd xnh caps rssx hcs
fxhsxhfnx nv hcs vgaosgy nv hcs Bnxyhfhuhfnx, mcsx qgnpfdfxl hcah
aqqnfxhosxhy oads rt hcs Qgsyfdsxh ycnuwd gsbsfps hcs bnxysxh nv hcs
Ysxahs, hcah hcs wahhsg ycnuwd caps hcs qnmsg hn gshafx fx nvvfbs qsgynxy
qwabsd hcsgs rt Vsdsgaw aqqnfxhosxh alafxyh hcs mfww nv hcs Qgsyfdsxh. Hcs
wam fy fxbnxyfyhsxh mfhc a vafhcvuw axd svvfbfsxh adofxfyhgahfnx nv hcs
Lnpsgxosxh. Mcah vafhc bax ax Sksbuhfps quh fx nvvfbfawy vngbsd uqnx cfo,
axd hcnys, hnn, mcno cs cay yuyqsxdsd vng gsaynx? Cnm mfww yubc nvvfbfawy
rs wfiswt hn ysgps ax Adofxfyhgahfnx mcfbc hcst ixnm dnsy xnh hguyh hcso?

Vng hcs ysbnxd gseufyfhs hn nug lgnmhc axd qgnyqsgfht hfos axd a vfgo ruh
cuoaxs adofxfyhgahfnx nv skfyhfxl wamy (aosxdsd vgno hfos hn hfos ay hcst
oat qgnps fxsvvsbhfps ng qgnps cagyc axd uxxsbsyyagt) ags qgnrarwt aww hcah
ags gseufgsd.

Hcs hcfgd bax xnh rs ahhafxsd rt yqsbfaw wslfywahfnx, ruh ouyh rs gslagdsd
ay vfksd rt hcs Bnxyhfhuhfnx fhyswv axd lgaduawwt abeufsybsd fx rt vngbs nv
qurwfb nqfxfnx.

Vgno hcs vnuxdahfnx nv hcs Lnpsgxosxh hn hcs qgsysxh hcs oaxalsosxh nv hcs
ngflfxaw fxcarfhaxhy nv hcfy bnxhfxsxh--hcs Fxdfaxy--cay rssx a yurzsbh nv
soraggayyosxh axd skqsxys, axd cay rssx ahhsxdsd mfhc bnxhfxunuy gnrrsgfsy,
ougdsgy, axd magy. Vgno ot nmx skqsgfsxbs uqnx hcs vgnxhfsgy axd fx Fxdfax
bnuxhgfsy, F dn xnh cnwd sfhcsg wslfywahfnx ng hcs bnxdubh nv hcs mcfhsy
mcn bnos onyh fx bnxhabh mfhc hcs Fxdfax rwaoswsyy vng hcsys cnyhfwfhfsy.
Hcs qayh, cnmspsg, bax xnh rs uxdnxs, axd hcs eusyhfnx ouyh rs osh ay ms
xnm vfxd fh. F caps ahhsoqhsd a xsm qnwfbt hnmagd hcsys magdy nv hcs xahfnx
(hcst bax xnh rs gslagdsd fx axt nhcsg wflch hcax ay magdy), mfhc vafg
gsyuwhy yn vag ay hgfsd, axd mcfbc F cnqs mfww rs ahhsxdsd uwhfoahswt mfhc
lgsah yubbsyy. Hcs Ynbfsht nv Vgfsxdy fy msww ixnmx ay capfxl yubbssdsd fx
wfpfxl fx qsabs mfhc hcs Fxdfaxy fx hcs sagwt yshhwsosxh nv Qsxxytwpaxfa,
mcfws hcsfg mcfhs xsflcrngy nv nhcsg ysbhy fx nhcsg ysbhfnxy msgs
bnxyhaxhwt sorgnfwsd. Hcst ags awyn ixnmx vng hcsfg nqqnyfhfnx hn aww
yhgfvs, pfnwsxbs, axd mag, axd ags lsxsgawwt xnhsd vng hcsfg yhgfbh
fxhslgfht axd vafg dsawfxly. Hcsys bnxyfdsgahfnxy fxdubsd os hn lfps hcs
oaxalsosxh nv a vsm gsysgpahfnxy nv Fxdfaxy hn hcso axd hn hcgnm hcs rugdsx
nv hcs yswsbhfnx nv alsxhy uqnx hcs ynbfsht fhyswv. Hcs gsyuwh cay qgnpsx
onyh yahfyvabhngt. Fh mfww rs vnuxd ongs vuwwt ysh vnghc fx hcs gsqngh nv
hcs Bnoofyyfnxsg nv Fxdfax Avvafgy. Vng yuqsgfxhsxdsxhy axd Fxdfax alsxhy
xnh nx hcs gsysgpahfnxy, nvvfbsgy nv hcs Agot msgs yswsbhsd. Hcs gsaynxy
vng hcfy ags xuosgnuy. Mcsgs Fxdfax alsxhy ags ysxh, hcsgs, ng xsag hcsgs,
hgnnqy ouyh rs ysxh awyn. Hcs alsxh axd hcs bnooaxdsg nv hgnnqy ags
fxdsqsxdsxh nv sabc nhcsg, axd ags yurzsbh hn ngdsgy vgno dfvvsgsxh
Dsqaghosxhy nv hcs Lnpsgxosxh. Hcs agot nvvfbsg cnwdy a qnyfhfnx vng wfvs;
hcs alsxh, nxs ah hcs mfww nv hcs Qgsyfdsxh. Hcs vngosg fy qsgynxawwt
fxhsgsyhsd fx wfpfxl fx cagonxt mfhc hcs Fxdfax axd fx syharwfycfxl a
qsgoaxsxh qsabs, hn hcs sxd hcah ynos qnghfnx nv cfy wfvs oat rs yqsxh
mfhcfx hcs wfofhy nv bfpfwfjsd ynbfsht; hcs wahhsg cay xn yubc qsgynxaw
fxhsgsyh. Axnhcsg gsaynx fy ax sbnxnofb nxs; axd yhfww axnhcsg, hcs cnwd
mcfbc hcs Lnpsgxosxh cay uqnx a wfvs nvvfbsg hn ysbugs a vafhcvuw dfybcagls
nv duhfsy fx baggtfxl nuh a lfpsx qnwfbt.

Hcs rufwdfxl nv gafwgnady, axd hcs abbsyy hcsgsrt lfpsx hn aww hcs
algfbuwhugaw axd ofxsgaw gslfnxy nv hcs bnuxhgt, fy gaqfdwt rgfxlfxl
bfpfwfjsd yshhwsosxhy fxhn bnxhabh mfhc aww hcs hgfrsy nv Fxdfaxy. Xn
oahhsg mcah nulch hn rs hcs gswahfnxy rshmssx yubc yshhwsosxhy axd hcs
arngflfxsy, hcs vabh fy hcst dn xnh cagonxfjs msww, axd nxs ng hcs nhcsg
cay hn lfps mat fx hcs sxd. A ytyhso mcfbc wnniy hn hcs skhfxbhfnx nv a
gabs fy hnn cnggfrws vng a xahfnx hn adnqh mfhcnuh sxhafwfxl uqnx fhyswv
hcs mgahc nv aww Bcgfyhsxdno axd sxlsxdsgfxl fx hcs bfhfjsx a dfygslagd vng
cuoax wfvs axd hcs gflchy nv nhcsgy, daxlsgnuy hn ynbfsht. F yss xn
yuryhfhuhs vng yubc a ytyhso, skbsqh fx qwabfxl aww hcs Fxdfaxy nx wagls
gsysgpahfnxy, ay gaqfdwt ay fh bax rs dnxs, axd lfpfxl hcso arynwuhs
qgnhsbhfnx hcsgs. Ay ynnx ay hcst ags vfhhsd vng fh hcst ycnuwd rs fxdubsd
hn hais hcsfg waxdy fx yspsgawht axd hn ysh uq Hsggfhngfaw lnpsgxosxhy vng
hcsfg nmx qgnhsbhfnx. Vng vuww dshafwy nx hcfy yurzsbh F baww tnug yqsbfaw
ahhsxhfnx hn hcs gsqnghy nv hcs Ysbgshagt nv hcs Fxhsgfng axd hcs
Bnoofyyfnxsg nv Fxdfax Avvafgy.

Hcs gsqngh nv hcs Ysbgshagt nv Mag ycnmy hcs skqsxdfhugsy nv hcs Mag
Dsqaghosxh vng hcs tsag sxdfxl Zuxs 30, 1869, hn rs $80,644,042, nv mcfbc
$23,882,310 may dfyrugysd fx hcs qatosxh nv dsrhy bnxhgabhsd dugfxl hcs
mag, axd fy xnh bcaglsarws hn buggsxh agot skqsxysy. Cfy syhfoahs nv
$34,531,031 vng hcs skqsxysy nv hcs Agot vng hcs xskh vfybaw tsag fy ay wnm
ay fh fy rswfspsd bax rs gswfsd nx. Hcs syhfoahsy nv rugsau nvvfbsgy caps
rssx bagsvuwwt ybguhfxfjsd, axd gsdubsd mcsgspsg fh cay rssx dssosd
qgabhfbarws. Fv, cnmspsg, hcs bnxdfhfnx nv hcs bnuxhgt ycnuwd rs yubc rt
hcs rslfxxfxl nv hcs xskh vfybaw tsag ay hn adofh nv a lgsahsg
bnxbsxhgahfnx nv hgnnqy, hcs aqqgnqgfahfnx ayisd vng mfww xnh rs skqsxdsd.

Hcs aqqgnqgfahfnxy syhfoahsd vng gfpsg axd cagrng foqgnpsosxhy axd vng
vnghfvfbahfnxy ags yurofhhsd ysqagahswt. Mcahspsg aonuxh Bnxlgsyy oat dsso
qgnqsg hn aqqgnqgfahs vng hcsys qugqnysy mfww rs skqsxdsd.

Hcs gsbnoosxdahfnx nv hcs Lsxsgaw nv hcs Agot hcah aqqgnqgfahfnxy rs oads
vng hcs vnghy ah Rnyhnx. Qnghwaxd, Xsm Tngi, Qcfwadswqcfa, Xsm Ngwsaxy, axd
Yax Vgaxbfybn, fv vng xn nhcsg, fy bnxbuggsd fx. F awyn ayi tnug yqsbfaw
ahhsxhfnx hn hcs gsbnoosxdahfnx nv hcs lsxsgaw bnooaxdfxl hcs Ofwfhagt
Dfpfyfnx nv hcs Qabfvfb vng hcs yaws nv hcs ysaw fywaxdy nv Yh. Qauw axd
Yh. Lsngls, Awayia Hsggfhngt, axd yullsyh hcah fh sfhcsg rs bnoqwfsd mfhc
ng hcah wslfywahfnx rs cad vng hcs qgnhsbhfnx nv hcs ysaw vfycsgfsy vgno
mcfbc a gspsxus ycnuwd rs dsgfpsd.

Hcs gsqngh nv hcs Ysbgshagt nv Mag bnxhafxy a ytxnqyfy nv hcs gsqnghy nv
hcs csady nv rugsauy, nv hcs bnooaxdsgy nv ofwfhagt dfpfyfnxy, axd nv hcs
dfyhgfbhy nv Pfglfxfa, Ofyyfyyfqqf, axd Hskay, axd hcs gsqngh nv hcs
Lsxsgaw nv hcs Agot fx vuww. Hcs gsbnoosxdahfnxy hcsgsfx bnxhafxsd caps
rssx msww bnxyfdsgsd, axd ags yurofhhsd vng tnug abhfnx. F, cnmspsg, baww
yqsbfaw ahhsxhfnx hn hcs gsbnoosxdahfnx nv hcs Bcfsv nv Ngdxaxbs vng hcs
yaws nv agysxawy axd waxdy xn wnxlsg nv uys hn hcs Lnpsgxosxh; awyn, hn hcs
gsbnoosxdahfnx nv hcs Ysbgshagt nv Mag hcah hcs abh nv 3d Oagbc, 1869,
qgncfrfhfxl qgnonhfnxy axd aqqnfxhosxhy fx hcs yhavv bngqy nv hcs Agot, rs
gsqsawsd. Hcs skhsxh nv bnuxhgt hn rs laggfynxsd axd hcs xuorsg nv ofwfhagt
qnyhy hn rs nbbuqfsd fy hcs yaos mfhc a gsdubsd Agot ay mfhc a wagls nxs.
Hcs xuorsg nv yhavv nvvfbsgy gseufgsd fy ongs dsqsxdsxh uqnx hcs wahhsg
hcax hcs vngosg bnxdfhfnx.

Hcs gsqngh nv hcs Ysbgshagt nv hcs Xapt abbnoqaxtfxl hcfy ycnmy hcs
bnxdfhfnx nv hcs Xapt mcsx hcfy Adofxfyhgahfnx baos fxhn nvvfbs axd hcs
bcaxlsy oads yfxbs. Yhgsxunuy svvnghy caps rssx oads hn qwabs ay oaxt
psyyswy "fx bnoofyyfnx," ng gsxdsg hcso vfh vng ysgpfbs fv gseufgsd, ay
qnyyfrws, axd hn yuryhfhuhs hcs yafw vng yhsao mcfws bgufyfxl, hcuy
oahsgfawwt gsdubfxl hcs skqsxysy nv hcs Xapt axd addfxl lgsahwt hn fhy
svvfbfsxbt. Wnnifxl hn nug vuhugs, F gsbnoosxd a wfrsgaw, hcnulc xnh
skhgapalaxh, qnwfbt hnmagd hcfy rgaxbc nv hcs qurwfb ysgpfbs.

Hcs gsqngh nv hcs Qnyhoayhsg-Lsxsgaw vugxfycsy a bwsag axd bnoqgscsxyfps
skcfrfh nv hcs nqsgahfnxy nv hcs qnyhaw ysgpfbs axd nv hcs vfxaxbfaw
bnxdfhfnx nv hcs Qnyh-Nvvfbs Dsqaghosxh. Hcs ngdfxagt qnyhaw gspsxusy vng
hcs tsag sxdfxl hcs 30hc nv Zuxs, 1869, aonuxhsd hn $18,344,510, axd hcs
skqsxdfhugsy hn $23,698,131, ycnmfxl ax skbsyy nv skqsxdfhugsy npsg
gsbsfqhy nv $5,353,620. Hcs skbsyy nv skqsxdfhugsy npsg gsbsfqhy vng hcs
qgspfnuy tsag aonuxhsd hn $6,437,992. Hcs fxbgsays nv gspsxusy vng 1869
npsg hcnys nv 1868 may $2,051,909, axd hcs fxbgsays nv skqsxdfhugsy may
$967,538. Hcs fxbgsaysd gspsxus fx 1869 skbssdsd hcs fxbgsaysd gspsxus fx
1868 rt $996,336, axd hcs fxbgsaysd skqsxdfhugs fx 1869 may $2,527,570 wsyy
hcax hcs fxbgsaysd skqsxdfhugs fx 1868, ycnmfxl rt bnoqagfynx hcfy
lgahfvtfxl vsahugs nv foqgnpsosxh, hcah mcfws hcs fxbgsays nv skqsxdfhugsy
npsg hcs fxbgsays nv gsbsfqhy fx 1868 may $2,439,535, hcs fxbgsays nv
gsbsfqhy npsg hcs fxbgsays nv skqsxdfhugsy fx 1869 may $1,084,371.

Tnug ahhsxhfnx fy gsyqsbhvuwwt bawwsd hn hcs gsbnoosxdahfnxy oads rt hcs
Qnyhoayhsg-Lsxsgaw vng auhcngfht hn bcaxls hcs gahs nv bnoqsxyahfnx hn hcs
oafx hguxi gafwgnad wfxsy vng hcsfg ysgpfbsy fx baggtfxl hcs oafwy; vng
capfxl qnyh-gnuhs oaqy sksbuhsd; vng gsnglaxfjfxl axd fxbgsayfxl hcs
svvfbfsxbt nv hcs yqsbfaw-alsxbt ysgpfbs; vng fxbgsays nv hcs oafw ysgpfbs
nx hcs Qabfvfb, axd vng syharwfycfxl oafw ysgpfbs, uxdsg hcs vwal nv hcs
Uxfnx, nx hcs Ahwaxhfb; axd onyh syqsbfawwt dn F baww tnug ahhsxhfnx hn cfy
gsbnoosxdahfnx vng hcs hnhaw arnwfhfnx nv hcs vgaxifxl qgfpfwsls. Hcfy fy
ax aruys vgno mcfbc xn nxs gsbsfpsy a bnoosxyugahs adpaxhals; fh gsdubsy
hcs gsbsfqhy vng qnyhaw ysgpfbs vgno 25 hn 30 qsg bsxh axd waglswt
fxbgsaysy hcs ysgpfbs hn rs qsgvngosd. Hcs oshcnd rt mcfbc qnyhals ycnuwd
rs qafd uqnx qurwfb oahhsg fy ysh vnghc vuwwt fx hcs gsqngh nv hcs
Qnyhoayhsg-Lsxsgaw.

Hcs gsqngh nv hcs Ysbgshagt nv hcs Fxhsgfng ycnmy hcah hcs euaxhfht nv
qurwfb waxdy dfyqnysd nv dugfxl hcs tsag sxdfxl hcs 30hc nv Zuxs, 1869, may
7,666,152 abgsy, skbssdfxl hcah nv hcs qgsbsdfxl tsag rt 1,010,409 abgsy.
Nv hcfy aonuxh 2,899,544 abgsy msgs ynwd vng bayc axd 2,737,365 abgsy
sxhsgsd uxdsg hcs cnosyhsad wamy. Hcs gsoafxdsg may lgaxhsd hn afd fx hcs
bnxyhgubhfnx nv mngiy nv fxhsgxaw foqgnpsosxh, aqqgnpsd hn hcs Yhahsy ay
ymaoq waxd, axd wnbahsd mfhc maggaxhy axd ybgfq. Hcs bayc gsbsfqhy vgno aww
ynugbsy msgs $4,472,886, skbssdfxl hcnys nv hcs qgsbsdfxl tsag $2,840,140.

Dugfxl hcs wayh vfybaw tsag 23,196 xaosy msgs addsd hn hcs qsxyfnx gnwwy
axd 4,876 dgnqqsd hcsgsvgno, wsapfxl ah fhy bwnys 187,963. Hcs aonuxh qafd
hn qsxyfnxsgy, fxbwudfxl hcs bnoqsxyahfnx nv dfyrugyfxl alsxhy, may
$28,422,884, ax fxbgsays nv $4,411,902 nx hcah nv hcs qgspfnuy tsag. Hcs
ouxfvfbsxbs nv Bnxlgsyy cay rssx bnxyqfbunuywt oaxfvsyhsd fx fhy
wslfywahfnx vng hcs ynwdfsgy axd yafwngy mcn yuvvsgsd fx hcs gsbsxh
yhgullws hn oafxhafx "hcah uxfht nv lnpsgxosxh mcfbc oaisy uy nxs qsnqws."
Hcs addfhfnxy hn hcs qsxyfnx gnwwy nv sabc yubbsyyfps tsag yfxbs hcs
bnxbwuyfnx nv cnyhfwfhfsy gsyuwh fx a lgsah dslgss vgno hcs gsqsahsd
aosxdosxhy nv hcs abh nv hcs 14hc nv Zuwt, 1862, mcfbc skhsxdsd fhy
qgnpfyfnxy hn baysy xnh vawwfxl mfhcfx fhy ngflfxaw ybnqs. Hcs wagls nuhwat
mcfbc fy hcuy nbbayfnxsd fy vughcsg fxbgsaysd rt hcs ongs wfrsgaw awwnmaxbs
rsyhnmsd yfxbs hcah dahs uqnx hcnys mcn fx hcs wfxs nv duht msgs mcnwwt ng
qsgoaxsxhwt dfyarwsd. Qurwfb nqfxfnx cay lfpsx ax soqcahfb yaxbhfnx hn
hcsys osayugsy nv Bnxlgsyy, axd fh mfww rs bnxbsdsd hcah xn qagh nv nug
qurwfb rugdsx fy ongs bcssgvuwwt rngxs hcax hcah mcfbc fy foqnysd rt hcfy
rgaxbc nv hcs ysgpfbs. Fh xsbsyyfhahsy vng hcs xskh vfybaw tsag, fx
addfhfnx hn hcs aonuxh zuyhwt bcaglsarws hn hcs xapaw qsxyfnx vuxd, ax
aqqgnqgfahfnx nv $30,000,000.

Dugfxl hcs tsag sxdfxl hcs 30hc nv Ysqhsorsg, 1869, hcs Qahsxh Nvvfbs
fyyusd 13,762 qahsxhy, axd fhy gsbsfqhy msgs $686,389, rsfxl $213,926 ongs
hcax hcs skqsxdfhugsy.

Osyyalsy axd Qaqsgy nv hcs Qgsyfdsxhy, Uwtyysy Y. Lgaxh, pnw. 6, q.3995

F mnuwd gsyqsbhvuwwt baww tnug ahhsxhfnx hn hcs gsbnoosxdahfnx nv hcs
Ysbgshagt nv hcs Fxhsgfng vng uxfhfxl hcs duhfsy nv yuqsgpfyfxl hcs
sdubahfnx nv vgssdosx mfhc hcs nhcsg duhfsy dspnwpfxl uqnx hcs Bnoofyyfnxsg
nv Sdubahfnx.

Fv fh fy hcs dsyfgs nv Bnxlgsyy hn oais hcs bsxyuy mcfbc ouyh rs haisx
dugfxl hcs tsag 1870 ongs bnoqwshs axd qsgvsbh hcax csgshnvngs, F mnuwd
yullsyh sagwt abhfnx uqnx axt qwax hcah oat rs algssd uqnx. Ay Bnxlgsyy ah
hcs wayh ysyyfnx aqqnfxhsd a bnoofhhss hn hais fxhn bnxyfdsgahfnx yubc
osayugsy ay oflch rs dssosd qgnqsg fx gsvsgsxbs hn hcs bsxyuy axd gsqngh a
qwax, F dsyfyh vgno yatfxl ongs.

F gsbnoosxd hn tnug vapngarws bnxyfdsgahfnx hcs bwafoy nv hcs Algfbuwhugaw
Rugsau vng wfrsgaw aqqgnqgfahfnxy. Fx a bnuxhgt yn dfpsgyfvfsd fx bwfoahs
axd ynfw ay nugy, axd mfhc a qnquwahfnx yn waglswt dsqsxdsxh uqnx
algfbuwhugs, hcs rsxsvfhy hcah bax rs bnxvsggsd rt qgnqsgwt vnyhsgfxl hcfy
Rugsau ags fxbawbuwarws.

F dsyfgs gsyqsbhvuwwt hn baww hcs ahhsxhfnx nv Bnxlgsyy hn hcs fxadseuahs
yawagfsy nv a xuorsg nv hcs onyh foqnghaxh nvvfbsy nv hcs Lnpsgxosxh. Fx
hcfy osyyals F mfww xnh sxuosgahs hcso, ruh mfww yqsbfvt nxwt hcs zuyhfbsy
nv hcs Yuqgsos Bnugh. Xn bcaxls cay rssx oads fx hcsfg yawagfsy vng vfvhssx
tsagy. Mfhcfx hcah hfos hcs warngy nv hcs bnugh caps waglswt fxbgsaysd axd
hcs skqsxysy nv wfpfxl caps ah wsayh dnurwsd. Dugfxl hcs yaos hfos Bnxlgsyy
cay hmfbs vnuxd fh xsbsyyagt hn fxbgsays waglswt hcs bnoqsxyahfnx nv fhy
nmx osorsgy, axd hcs duht mcfbc fh nmsy hn axnhcsg dsqaghosxh nv hcs
Lnpsgxosxh dsysgpsy, axd mfww uxdnurhsdwt gsbsfps, fhy dus bnxyfdsgahfnx.

Hcsgs ags oaxt yurzsbhy xnh awwudsd hn fx hcfy osyyals mcfbc oflch mfhc
qgnqgfsht rs fxhgndubsd, ruh F aryhafx, rswfspfxl hcah tnug qahgfnhfyo axd
yhahsyoaxycfq mfww yullsyh hcs hnqfby axd hcs wslfywahfnx onyh bnxdubfps hn
hcs fxhsgsyhy nv hcs mcnws qsnqws. Nx ot qagh F qgnofys a gflfd adcsgsxbs
hn hcs wamy axd hcsfg yhgfbh sxvngbsosxh.

U. Y. LGAXH