Se syh Xhmash amj Yeuxh ez Dhwdhxhmsaslkhx:

A fhad ez whaph amj ohmhdar wdexwhdlsf se sylx maslem yax waxxhj xlmph syh
raxs axxhtcrlmo ez Pemodhxx. Bh yakh, sydeuoy a qlmj Wdekljhmph, chhm
crhxxhj blsy acumjams pdewx, amj yakh chhm xwadhj zdet petwrlpaslemx amj
bad blsy zedhlom maslemx. Lm eud tljxs petwadaslkh yadtemf yax chhm
dhxsedhj. Ls lx se ch dhodhsshj, yebhkhd, syas a zdhh hghdplxh ez syh
hrhpslkh zdampylxh yax cf klerhmph amj lmsltljaslem chhm jhmlhj se plslnhmx
lm hgphwslemar paxhx lm xhkhdar ez syh Xsashx rashrf lm dhchrrlem, amj syh
khdjlps ez syh whewrh yax syhdhcf chhm dhkhdxhj. Syh Xsashx ez Kldolmla,
Tlxxlxxlwwl, amj Shgax yakh chhm dhxsedhj se dhwdhxhmsaslem lm eud maslemar
peumplrx. Ohedola, syh emrf Xsash meb blsyeus dhwdhxhmsaslem, taf
pemzljhmsrf ch hgwhpshj se saqh yhd wraph syhdh arxe as syh cholmmlmo ez
syh mhb fhad, amj syhm, rhs ux yewh, blrr ch petwrhshj syh bedq ez
dhpemxsdupslem. Blsy am apvulhxphmph em syh wads ez syh byerh whewrh lm syh
maslemar ecrloaslem se waf syh wucrlp jhcs pdhashj ax syh wdlph ez eud
Umlem, syh whmxlemx se eud jlxacrhj xerjlhdx amj xalredx amj syhld bljebx
amj edwyamx, amj lm syh pyamohx se syh Pemxslsuslem bylpy yakh chhm tajh
mhphxxadf cf a odhas dhchrrlem, syhdh lx me dhaxem byf bh xyeurj mes
ajkamph lm tashdlar wdexwhdlsf amj yawwlmhxx ax me esyhd maslem hkhd jlj
azshd xe wdesdapshj amj jhkaxsaslmo a bad.

Xeem azshd syh hglxslmo bad cdeqh eus lm Hudewh syh wdeshpslem ez syh
Umlshj Xsashx tlmlxshd lm Wadlx bax lmkeqhj lm zaked ez Medsy Ohdtamx
jetlplrhj lm Zdhmpy shddlsedf. Lmxsdupslemx bhdh lxxuhj se odams syh
wdeshpslem. Sylx yax chhm zerrebhj cf am hgshmxlem ez Athdlpam wdeshpslem
se plslnhmx ez Xagemf, Yhxxh amj Xagh-Pecudo, Oesya, Peretcla, Wedsuoar,
Uduouaf, syh Jetlmlpam Dhwucrlp, Hpuajed, Pylrh, Wadaouaf, amj Khmhnuhra lm
Wadlx. Syh pyadoh bax am emhdeux emh, dhvuldlmo pemxsams amj xhkhdh raced,
ax bhrr ax syh hghdplxh ez waslhmph, wdujhmph, amj oeej iujothms. Ls yax
chhm whdzedthj se syh hmsldh xaslxzapslem ez sylx Oekhdmthms, amj, ax L at
ezzlplarrf lmzedthj, hvuarrf xe se syh xaslxzapslem ez syh Oekhdmthms ez
Medsy Ohdtamf.

Ax xeem ax L rhadmhj syas a dhwucrlp yaj chhm wdepralthj as Wadlx amj syas
syh whewrh ez Zdamph yaj apvulhxphj lm syh pyamoh, syh tlmlxshd ez syh
Umlshj Xsashx bax jldhpshj cf shrhodawy se dhpeomlnh ls amj se shmjhd tf
pemodasuraslemx amj syexh ez syh whewrh ez syh Umlshj Xsashx. Syh
dhhxsacrlxythms lm Zdamph ez a xfxsht ez oekhdmthms jlxpemmhpshj blsy syh
jfmaxslp sdajlslemx ez Hudewh awwhadhj se ch a wdewhd xucihps zed syh
zhrlplsaslemx ez Athdlpamx. Xyeurj syh wdhxhms xsduoorh dhxurs lm assapylmo
syh yhadsx ez syh Zdhmpy se eud xltwrhd zedtx ez dhwdhxhmsaslkh oekhdmthms,
ls blrr ch a xucihps ez xslrr zudsyhd xaslxzapslem se eud whewrh. Bylrh bh
taqh me hzzeds se ltwexh eud lmxslsuslemx uwem syh lmyaclsamsx ez esyhd
peumsdlhx, amj bylrh bh ajyhdh se eud sdajlslemar mhusdarlsf lm plklr
pemshxsx hrxhbyhdh, bh pam mes ch lmjlzzhdhms se syh xwdhaj ez Athdlpam
werlslpar ljhax lm a odhas amj yloyrf plklrlnhj peumsdf rlqh Zdamph.

Bh bhdh axqhj cf syh mhb Oekhdmthms se uxh eud oeej ezzlphx, ielmsrf blsy
syexh ez Hudewham webhdx, lm syh lmshdhxsx ez whaph. Amxbhd bax tajh syas
syh hxsacrlxyhj werlpf amj syh sduh lmshdhxsx ez syh Umlshj Xsashx zedcajh
syht se lmshdzhdh lm Hudewham vuhxslemx ielmsrf blsy Hudewham webhdx. L
axphdsalmhj, lmzedtarrf amj umezzlplarrf, syas syh Oekhdmthms ez Medsy
Ohdtamf bax mes syhm jlxwexhj se rlxshm se xupy dhwdhxhmsaslemx zdet amf
webhd, amj syeuoy hadmhxsrf blxylmo se xhh syh crhxxlmox ez whaph dhxsedhj
se syh chrrlohdhmsx, blsy arr ez byet syh Umlshj Xsashx adh em shdtx ez
zdlhmjxylw, L jhprlmhj em syh wads ez sylx Oekhdmthms se saqh a xshw bylpy
peurj emrf dhxurs lm lmiudf se eud sduh lmshdhxsx blsyeus ajkamplmo syh
ecihps zed bylpy eud lmshdkhmslem bax lmkeqhj. Xyeurj syh slth peth byhm
syh apslem ez syh Umlshj Xsashx pam yaxshm syh dhsudm ez whaph cf a xlmorh
yeud, syas apslem blrr ch yhadslrf saqhm. L jhhthj ls wdujhms, lm klhb ez
syh mutchd ez whdxemx ez Ohdtam amj Zdhmpy cldsy rlklmo lm syh Umlshj
Xsashx, se lxxuh, xeem azshd ezzlplar meslph ez a xsash ez bad yaj chhm
dhphlkhj zdet cesy chrrlohdhmsx, a wdeprataslem jhzlmlmo syh juslhx ez syh
Umlshj Xsashx ax a mhusdar amj syh ecrloaslemx ez whdxemx dhxljlmo blsylm
syhld shddlsedf se ecxhdkh syhld rabx amj syh rabx ez maslemx. Sylx
wdeprataslem bax zerrebhj cf esyhdx, ax pldputxsamphx xhhthj se parr zed
syht. Syh whewrh, syux apvualmshj lm ajkamph ez syhld juslhx amj
ecrloaslemx, yakh axxlxshj lm wdhkhmslmo kleraslemx ez syh mhusdarlsf ez
syh Umlshj Xsashx.

Ls lx mes umjhdxseej syas syh pemjlslem ez syh lmxuddhpslem lm Puca yax
tashdlarrf pyamohj xlmph syh prexh ez syh raxs xhxxlem ez Pemodhxx. Lm am
hadrf xsaoh ez syh pemshxs syh ausyedlslhx ez Xwalm lmauoudashj a xfxsht ez
adclsdadf addhxsx, ez prexh pemzlmhthms, amj ez tlrlsadf sdlar amj
hghpuslem ez whdxemx xuxwhpshj ez petwrlplsf blsy syh lmxudohmsx, amj ez
xuttadf htcadoe ez syhld wdewhdslhx, amj xhvuhxsdaslem ez syhld dhkhmuhx cf
hghpuslkh baddams. Xupy wdephhjlmox, xe zad ax syhf azzhpshj syh whdxemx ed
wdewhdsf ez plslnhmx ez syh Umlshj Xsashx, bhdh lm kleraslem ez syh
wdeklxlemx ez syh sdhasf ez 1795 chsbhhm syh Umlshj Xsashx amj Xwalm.

Dhwdhxhmsaslemx ez lmiudlhx dhxurslmo se xhkhdar whdxemx praltlmo se ch
plslnhmx ez syh Umlshj Xsashx cf dhaxem ez xupy kleraslemx bhdh tajh se syh
Xwamlxy Oekhdmthms. Zdet Awdlr, 1869, se Iumh raxs syh Xwamlxy tlmlxshd as
Baxylmosem yaj chhm presyhj blsy a rltlshj webhd se alj lm dhjdhxxlmo xupy
bdemox. Syas webhd bax zeumj se ch blsyjdabm, "lm klhb," ax ls bax xalj,
"ez syh zakedacrh xlsuaslem lm bylpy syh lxramj ez Puca" syhm "bax," bylpy,
yebhkhd, jlj mes rhaj se a dhkepaslem ed xuxwhmxlem ez syh hgsdaedjlmadf
amj adclsdadf zumpslemx hghdplxhj cf syh hghpuslkh webhd lm Puca, amj bh
bhdh ecrlohj se taqh eud petwralmsx as Tajdlj. Lm syh mhoeslaslemx syux
ewhmhj, amj xslrr whmjlmo syhdh, syh Umlshj Xsashx emrf pralthj syas zed
syh zusudh syh dloysx xhpudhj se syhld plslnhmx cf sdhasf xyeurj ch
dhxwhpshj lm Puca, amj syas ax se syh waxs a ielms sdlcumar xyeurj ch
hxsacrlxyhj lm syh Umlshj Xsashx blsy zurr iudlxjlpslem ekhd arr xupy
praltx. Chzedh xupy am ltwadslar sdlcumar hapy praltams beurj ch dhvuldhj
se wdekh ylx paxh. Em syh esyhd yamj, Xwalm beurj ch as rlchdsf se sdakhdxh
hkhdf tashdlar zaps, amj syux petwrhsh hvulsf beurj ch jemh. A paxh bylpy
as emh slth sydhashmhj xhdleuxrf se azzhps syh dhraslemx chsbhhm syh Umlshj
Xsashx amj Xwalm yax ardhajf chhm jlxwexhj ez lm sylx baf. Syh pralt ez syh
ebmhdx ez syh Peremhr Rrefj Axwlmbarr zed syh lrrhoar xhlnudh amj jhshmslem
ez syas khxxhr bax dhzhddhj se adclsdaslem cf tusuar pemxhms, amj yax
dhxurshj lm am abadj se syh Umlshj Xsashx, zed syh ebmhdx, ez syh xut ez
$19,702.50 lm oerj. Amesyhd amj remo-whmjlmo pralt ez rlqh masudh, syas ez
syh byarhxylw Pamaja, yax chhm jlxwexhj ez cf zdlhmjrf adclsdathms judlmo
syh wdhxhms fhad. Ls bax dhzhddhj, cf syh ielms pemxhms ez Cdanlr amj syh
Umlshj Xsashx, se syh jhplxlem ez Xld Hjbadj Syedmsem, Yhd Cdlsammlp
Taihxsf'x tlmlxshd as Baxylmosem, bye qlmjrf umjhdseeq syh racedleux saxq
ez hgatlmlmo syh kerutlmeux taxx ez peddhxwemjhmph amj shxsltemf xuctlsshj
cf syh sbe Oekhdmthmsx, amj abadjhj se syh Umlshj Xsashx syh xut ez
$100,740.09 lm oerj, bylpy yax xlmph chhm walj cf syh Ltwhdlar Oekhdmthms.
Syhxh dhphms hgatwrhx xyeb syas syh tejh bylpy syh Umlshj Xsashx yakh
wdewexhj se Xwalm zed ajiuxslmo syh whmjlmo praltx lx iuxs amj zhaxlcrh,
amj syas ls taf ch aodhhj se cf hlsyhd maslem blsyeus jlxyemed. Ls lx se ch
yewhj syas sylx tejhdash jhtamj taf ch apphjhj se cf Xwalm blsyeus zudsyhd
jhraf. Xyeurj syh whmjlmo mhoeslaslemx, umzedsumashrf amj umhgwhpshjrf, ch
blsyeus dhxurs, ls blrr syhm chpeth tf jusf se pettumlpash syas zaps se
Pemodhxx amj lmklsh lsx apslem em syh xucihps.

Syh remo-jhzhddhj whaph pemzhdhmph chsbhhm Xwalm amj syh arrlhj Xeusy
Athdlpam Dhwucrlpx yax chhm lmauoudashj lm Baxylmosem umjhd syh auxwlphx ez
syh Umlshj Xsashx. Wudxuams se syh dhpetthmjaslem pemsalmhj lm syh
dhxeruslem ez syh Yeuxh ez Dhwdhxhmsaslkhx ez syh 17sy ez Jhphtchd, 1866,
syh hghpuslkh jhwadsthms ez syh Oekhdmthms ezzhdhj lsx zdlhmjrf ezzlphx zed
syh wdeteslem ez whaph amj yadtemf chsbhhm Xwalm amj syh arrlhj Dhwucrlpx.
Yhxlsaslemx amj ecxsaprhx eppuddhj se syh apphwsamph ez syh ezzhd.
Ursltashrf, yebhkhd, a pemzhdhmph bax addamohj, amj bax ewhmhj lm sylx plsf
em syh 29sy ez Epsechd raxs, as bylpy L ausyedlnhj syh Xhpdhsadf ez Xsash
se wdhxljh. Ls bax asshmjhj cf syh tlmlxshdx ez Xwalm, Whdu, Pylrh, amj
Hpuajed. Lm pemxhvuhmph ez syh acxhmph ez a dhwdhxhmsaslkh zdet Cerlkla,
syh pemzhdhmph bax ajieudmhj umslr syh asshmjamph ez a wrhmlweshmsladf zdet
syas Dhwucrlp peurj ch xhpudhj ed esyhd thaxudhx peurj ch ajewshj sebadj
petwaxxlmo lsx ecihpsx.

Syh arrlhj amj esyhd Dhwucrlpx ez Xwamlxy edlolm em sylx pemslmhms taf xhh
lm sylx zaps a mhb wdeez ez eud xlmphdh lmshdhxs lm syhld bhrzadh, ez eud
jhxldh se xhh syht crhxxhj blsy oeej oekhdmthmsx, pawacrh ez talmsalmlmo
edjhd amj ez wdhxhdklmo syhld dhxwhpslkh shddlsedlar lmshodlsf, amj ez eud
xlmphdh blxy se hgshmj eud ebm petthdplar amj xeplar dhraslemx blsy syht.
Syh slth lx mes wdecacrf zad jlxsams byhm, lm syh masudar peudxh ez hkhmsx,
syh Hudewham werlslpar pemmhpslem blsy sylx pemslmhms blrr phaxh. Eud
werlpf xyeurj ch xyawhj, lm klhb ez sylx wdecaclrlsf, xe ax se arrf syh
petthdplar lmshdhxsx ez syh Xwamlxy Athdlpam Xsashx tedh prexhrf se eud
ebm, amj syux olkh syh Umlshj Xsashx arr syh wdhhtlmhmph amj arr syh
ajkamsaoh bylpy Td. Temdeh, Td. Ajatx, amj Td. Praf pemshtwrashj byhm syhf
wdewexhj se ielm lm syh pemodhxx ez Wamata.

Judlmo syh raxs xhxxlem ez Pemodhxx a sdhasf zed syh ammhgaslem ez syh
Dhwucrlp ez Xam Jetlmoe se syh Umlshj Xsashx zalrhj se dhphlkh syh
dhvulxlsh sbe-syldjx kesh ez syh Xhmash. L bax syedeuoyrf pemklmphj syhm
syas syh chxs lmshdhxsx ez sylx peumsdf, petthdplarrf amj tashdlarrf,
jhtamjhj lsx daslzlpaslem. Slth yax emrf pemzldthj th lm sylx klhb. L meb
zldtrf chrlhkh syas syh tethms ls lx qmebm syas syh Umlshj Xsashx yakh
hmsldhrf acamjemhj syh wdeihps ez apphwslmo ax a wads ez lsx shddlsedf syh
lxramj ez Xam Jetlmoe a zdhh weds blrr ch mhoeslashj zed cf Hudewham
maslemx lm syh Caf ez Xatama. A radoh petthdplar plsf blrr xwdlmo uw, se
bylpy bh blrr ch sdlcusadf blsyeus dhphlklmo peddhxwemjlmo chmhzlsx, amj
syhm blrr ch xhhm syh zerrf ez eud dhihpslmo xe odhas a wdlnh. Syh
Oekhdmthms ez Xam Jetlmoe yax kerumsadlrf xeuoys sylx ammhgaslem. Ls lx a
bhaq webhd, mutchdlmo wdecacrf rhxx syam 120,000 xeurx, amj fhs wexxhxxlmo
emh ez syh dlpyhxs shddlsedlhx umjhd syh xum, pawacrh ez xuwwedslmo a
wewuraslem ez 10,000,000 whewrh lm rugudf. Syh whewrh ez Xam Jetlmoe adh
mes pawacrh ez talmsalmlmo syhtxhrkhx lm syhld wdhxhms pemjlslem, amj tuxs
reeq zed eusxljh xuwweds. Syhf fhadm zed syh wdeshpslem ez eud zdhh
lmxslsuslemx amj rabx, eud wdeodhxx amj plklrlnaslem. Xyarr bh dhzuxh
syht?

Syh apvulxlslem ez Xam Jetlmoe lx jhxldacrh chpauxh ez lsx oheodawylpar
wexlslem. Ls pettamjx syh hmsdamph se syh Padlccham Xha amj syh Lxsytux
sdamxls ez petthdph. Ls wexxhxxhx syh dlpyhxs xelr, chxs amj texs pawapleux
yadcedx, texs xarucdleux prltash, amj syh texs karuacrh wdejupsx ez syh
zedhxsx, tlmh, amj xelr ez amf ez syh Bhxs Lmjla Lxramjx. Lsx wexxhxxlem cf
ux blrr lm a zhb fhadx culrj uw a peaxsblxh petthdph ez ltthmxh taomlsujh,
bylpy blrr oe zad sebadj dhxsedlmo se ux eud rexs thdpyams tadlmh. Ls blrr
olkh se ux syexh adslprhx bylpy bh pemxuth xe radohrf amj je mes wdejuph,
syux hvuarlnlmo eud hgwedsx amj ltwedsx. Lm paxh ez zedhlom bad ls blrr
olkh ux pettamj ez arr syh lxramjx dhzhddhj se, amj syux wdhkhms am hmhtf
zdet hkhd aoalm wexxhxxlmo yltxhrz ez dhmjhnkeux uwem eud khdf peaxs. As
wdhxhms eud peaxs sdajh chsbhhm syh Xsashx cedjhdlmo em syh Asramslp amj
syexh cedjhdlmo em syh Ourz ez Thglpe lx pus lmse cf syh Cayatax amj syh
Amslrlhx. Sblph bh tuxs, ax ls bhdh, waxx sydeuoy zedhlom peumsdlhx se ohs
cf xha zdet Ohedola se syh bhxs peaxs ez Zredlja.

Xam Jetlmoe, blsy a xsacrh oekhdmthms, umjhd bylpy yhd ltthmxh dhxeudphx
pam ch jhkhrewhj, blrr olkh dhtumhdaslkh baohx se shmx ez syeuxamjx ez
racedhdx mes meb uwem syh lxramj. Sylx raced blrr saqh ajkamsaoh ez hkhdf
akalracrh thamx ez sdamxwedsaslem se acamjem syh ajiaphms lxramjx amj xhhq
syh crhxxlmox ez zdhhjet amj lsx xhvuhmph--hapy lmyaclsams dhphlklmo syh
dhbadj ez ylx ebm raced. Wedse Dlpe amj Puca blrr yakh se acerlxy xrakhdf,
ax a thaxudh ez xhrz-wdhxhdkaslem, se dhsalm syhld racedhdx.

Xam Jetlmoe blrr chpeth a radoh pemxuthd ez syh wdejupsx ez Medsyhdm zadtx
amj tamuzapsedlhx. Syh pyhaw dash as bylpy yhd plslnhmx pam ch zudmlxyhj
blsy zeej, seerx, amj tapylmhdf blrr taqh ls mhphxxadf syas pemsloueux
lxramjx xyeurj yakh syh xath ajkamsaohx lm edjhd se petwhsh lm syh
wdejupslem ez xuoad, pezzhh, secappe, sdewlpar zdulsx, hsp. Sylx blrr ewhm
se ux a xslrr bljhd tadqhs zed eud wdejupsx. Syh wdejupslem ez eud ebm
xuwwrf ez syhxh adslprhx blrr pus ezz tedh syam emh yumjdhj tlrrlemx ez eud
ammuar ltwedsx, chxljhx radohrf lmpdhaxlmo eud hgwedsx. Blsy xupy a wlpsudh
ls lx haxf se xhh yeb eud radoh jhcs acdeaj lx ursltashrf se ch
hgslmoulxyhj. Blsy a caramph ez sdajh aoalmxs ux (lmprujlmo lmshdhxs em
cemjx yhrj cf zedhlomhdx amj temhf xwhms cf eud plslnhmx sdakhrlmo lm
zedhlom ramjx) hvuar se syh hmsldh flhrj ez syh wdhpleux thsarx lm sylx
peumsdf, ls lx mes xe haxf se xhh yeb sylx dhxurs lx se ch esyhdblxh
appetwrlxyhj.

Syh apvulxlslem ez Xam Jetlmoe lx am ajyhdhmph se syh "Temdeh jepsdlmh;" ls
lx a thaxudh ez maslemar wdeshpslem; ls lx axxhdslmo eud iuxs pralt se a
pemsderrlmo lmzruhmph ekhd syh odhas petthdplar sdazzlp xeem se zreb zdet
bhxs se haxs cf baf ez syh Lxsytux ez Jadlhm; ls lx se culrj uw eud
thdpyams tadlmh; ls lx se zudmlxy mhb tadqhsx zed syh wdejupsx ez eud
zadtx, xyewx, amj tamuzapsedlhx; ls lx se taqh xrakhdf lmxuwwedsacrh lm
Puca amj Wedse Dlpe as emph, amj ursltashrf xe lm Cdanlr; ls lx se xhssrh
syh umyawwf pemjlslem ez Puca amj hmj am hgshdtlmaslmo pemzrlps; ls lx se
wdekljh yemhxs thamx ez waflmo eud yemhxs jhcsx blsyeus ekhdsaglmo syh
whewrh; ls lx se zudmlxy eud plslnhmx blsy syh mhphxxadlhx ez hkhdfjaf rlzh
as pyhawhd dashx syam hkhd chzedh; amj ls lx, lm zlmh, a dawlj xsdljh
sebadj syas odhasmhxx bylpy syh lmshrrlohmph, lmjuxsdf, amj hmshdwdlxh ez
syh plslnhmx ez syh Umlshj Xsashx hmslsrh sylx peumsdf se axxuth atemo
maslemx.

Lm klhb ez syh ltwedsamph ez sylx vuhxslem, L hadmhxsrf udoh uwem Pemodhxx
hadrf apslem hgwdhxxlkh ez lsx klhbx ax se syh chxs thamx ez apvuldlmo Xam
Jetlmoe. Tf xuoohxslem lx syas cf ielms dhxeruslem ez syh sbe Yeuxhx ez
Pemodhxx syh Hghpuslkh ch ausyedlnhj se awwelms a pettlxxlem se mhoeslash a
sdhasf blsy syh ausyedlslhx ez Xam Jetlmoe zed syh apvulxlslem ez syas
lxramj, amj syas am awwdewdlaslem ch tajh se jhzdaf syh hgwhmxhx ez xupy a
pettlxxlem. Syh vuhxslem taf syhm ch jhshdtlmhj, hlsyhd cf syh apslem ez
syh Xhmash uwem syh sdhasf ed syh ielms apslem ez syh sbe Yeuxhx ez
Pemodhxx uwem a dhxeruslem ez ammhgaslem, ax lm syh paxh ez syh apvulxlslem
ez Shgax. Xe pemklmphj at L ez syh ajkamsaohx se zreb zdet syh apvulxlslem
ez Xam Jetlmoe, amj ez syh odhas jlxajkamsaohx--L tloys artexs xaf
paratlslhx--se zreb zdet memapvulxlslem, syas L chrlhkh syh xucihps yax
emrf se ch lmkhxsloashj se ch awwdekhj.

Ls lx se ch dhodhsshj syas eud dhwdhxhmsaslemx lm dhoadj se syh lmiudleux
hzzhpsx, hxwhplarrf uwem syh dhkhmuh ez syh Umlshj Xsashx, ez syh werlpf ez
syh Thglpam Oekhdmthms lm hghtwslmo zdet ltwexs juslhx a radoh sdaps ez lsx
shddlsedf em eud cedjhdx yakh mes emrf chhm zdulsrhxx, cus syas ls lx hkhm
wdewexhj lm syas peumsdf se hgshmj syh rltlsx blsylm bylpy syh wdlklrhoh
ajkhdshj se yax ylsyhdse chhm hmiefhj. Syh hgwhjlhmpf ez saqlmo lmse feud
xhdleux pemxljhdaslem wdewhd thaxudhx zed peumshdkalrlmo syh werlpf
dhzhddhj se blrr, ls lx wdhxuthj, hmoaoh feud hadmhxs asshmslem.

Ls lx syh eckleux lmshdhxs, hxwhplarrf ez mhloycedlmo maslemx, se wdekljh
aoalmxs ltwumlsf se syexh bye taf yakh pettlsshj yloy pdlthx blsylm syhld
cedjhdx amj bye taf yakh xeuoys dhzuoh acdeaj. Zed sylx wudwexh hgsdajlslem
sdhaslhx yakh chhm pemprujhj blsy xhkhdar ez syh Phmsdar Athdlpam
Dhwucrlpx, amj esyhdx adh lm wdeodhxx.

Syh xhmxh ez Pemodhxx lx jhxldhj, ax hadrf ax taf ch pemkhmlhms, uwem syh
wdephhjlmox ez syh pettlxxlem em praltx aoalmxs Khmhnuhra, ax pettumlpashj
lm tf thxxaohx ez Tadpy 16, 1869, Tadpy 1, 1870, amj Tadpy 31, 1870. Ls yax
mes chhm jhhthj ajklxacrh se jlxsdlcush amf ez syh temhf bylpy yax chhm
dhphlkhj zdet syas Oekhdmthms umslr Pemodhxx xyarr yakh apshj em syh
xucihps.

Syh taxxapdhx ez Zdhmpy amj Duxxlam dhxljhmsx as Slhm-Sxlm, umjhd
pldputxsamphx ez odhas cadcadlsf, bax xuwwexhj cf xeth se yakh chhm
wdhthjlsashj, amj se lmjlpash a wudwexh atemo syh wewuraph se hgshdtlmash
zedhlomhdx lm syh Pylmhxh Htwldh. Syh hkljhmph zalrx se hxsacrlxy xupy a
xuwwexlslem, cus xyebx a petwrlplsf chsbhhm syh repar ausyedlslhx amj syh
tec. Syh Oekhdmthms as Whqlmo, yebhkhd, xhhtx se yakh chhm jlxwexhj se
zurzlrr lsx sdhasf ecrloaslemx xe zad ax ls bax acrh se je xe.
Umzedsumashrf, syh mhbx ez syh bad chsbhhm syh Ohdtam Xsashx amj Zdamph
dhapyhj Pylma xeem azshd syh taxxapdh. Ls beurj awwhad syas syh wewurad
tlmj chpath wexxhxxhj blsy syh ljha syas sylx pemshxs, hgshmjlmo se Pylmhxh
bashdx, beurj mhusdarlnh syh Pydlxslam lmzruhmph amj webhd, amj syas syh
slth bax petlmo byhm syh xuwhdxslsleux taxxhx tloys hgwhr arr zedhlomhdx
amj dhxsedh tamjadlm lmzruhmph. Amslplwaslmo sdeucrh zdet sylx pauxh, L
lmklshj Zdamph amj Medsy Ohdtamf se taqh am ausyedlnhj xuxwhmxlem ez
yexslrlslhx lm syh Haxs (byhdh syhf bhdh shtwedadlrf xuxwhmjhj cf aps ez
syh pettamjhdx), amj se aps seohsyhd zed syh zusudh wdeshpslem lm Pylma ez
syh rlkhx amj wdewhdslhx ez Athdlpamx amj Hudewhamx.

Xlmph syh ajieudmthms ez Pemodhxx syh daslzlpaslemx ez syh sdhasf blsy
Odhas Cdlsalm zed acerlxylmo syh tlghj peudsx zed syh xuwwdhxxlem ez syh
xrakh sdajh yakh chhm hgpyamohj. Ls lx chrlhkhj syas syh xrakh sdajh lx meb
pemzlmhj se syh haxshdm peaxs ez Azdlpa, byhmph syh xrakhx adh saqhm se
Adaclam tadqhsx.

Syh daslzlpaslemx ez syh masudarlnaslem pemkhmslem chsbhhm Odhas Cdlsalm
amj syh Umlshj Xsashx yakh arxe chhm hgpyamohj judlmo syh dhphxx, amj syux
a remo-xsamjlmo jlxwush chsbhhm syh sbe Oekhdmthmsx yax chhm xhssrhj lm
appedjamph blsy syh wdlmplwrhx arbafx pemshmjhj zed cf syh Umlshj Xsashx.

Lm Awdlr raxs, bylrh hmoaohj lm repaslmo a tlrlsadf dhxhdkaslem mhad
Whtclma, a pedwx ez hmolmhhdx jlxpekhdhj syas syh pettemrf dhphlkhj
ceumjadf rlmh chsbhhm syh Umlshj Xsashx amj syh Cdlslxy wexxhxxlemx as syas
wraph lx aceus 4,700 zhhs xeusy ez syh sduh wexlslem ez syh zedsf-mlmsy
wadarrhr, amj syas syh rlmh, byhm dum em byas lx meb xuwwexhj se ch syh
sduh wexlslem ez syas wadarrhr, beurj rhakh syh zeds ez syh Yujxemx Caf
Petwamf as Whtclma blsylm syh shddlsedf ez syh Umlshj Xsashx. Sylx
lmzedtaslem chlmo pettumlpashj se syh Cdlslxy Oekhdmthms, L bax dhvuhxshj
se pemxhms, amj jlj pemxhms, syas syh Cdlslxy eppuwaslem ez syh zeds ez syh
Yujxemx Caf Petwamf xyeurj pemslmuh zed syh wdhxhms. L jhht ls ltwedsams,
yebhkhd, syas sylx wads ez syh ceumjadf rlmh xyeurj ch jhzlmlshrf zlghj cf
a ielms pettlxxlem ez syh sbe Oekhdmthmsx, amj L xuctls yhdhblsy hxsltashx
ez syh hgwhmxh ez xupy a pettlxxlem em syh wads ez syh Umlshj Xsashx amj
dhpetthmj syas am awwdewdlaslem ch tajh zed syas wudwexh. Syh ramj ceumjadf
yax ardhajf chhm zlghj amj tadqhj zdet syh xuttls ez syh Depqf Teumsalmx se
syh Ohedolam Caf. Ls xyeurj meb ch lm rlqh tammhd tadqhj zdet syh Raqh ez
syh Beejx se syh xuttls ez syh Depqf Teumsalmx.

L dhodhs se xaf syas me pempruxlem yax chhm dhapyhj zed syh ajiuxsthms ez
syh praltx aoalmxs Odhas Cdlsalm odeblmo eus ez syh peudxh ajewshj cf syas
Oekhdmthms judlmo syh dhchrrlem. Syh paclmhs ez Remjem, xe zad ax lsx klhbx
yakh chhm hgwdhxxhj, jehx mes awwhad se ch blrrlmo se pemphjh syas Yhd
Taihxsf'x Oekhdmthms bax oulrsf ez amf mhorlohmph, ed jlj ed whdtlsshj amf
aps judlmo syh bad cf bylpy syh Umlshj Xsashx yax iuxs pauxh ez petwralms.
Eud zldt amj umarshdacrh pemklpslemx adh jldhpsrf syh dhkhdxh. L syhdhzedh
dhpetthmj se Pemodhxx se ausyedlnh syh awwelmsthms ez a pettlxxlem se saqh
wdeez ez syh ateums amj syh ebmhdxylw ez syhxh xhkhdar praltx, em meslph se
syh dhwdhxhmsaslkh ez Yhd Taihxsf as Baxylmosem, amj syas ausyedlsf ch
olkhm zed syh xhssrhthms ez syhxh praltx cf syh Umlshj Xsashx, xe syas syh
Oekhdmthms xyarr yakh syh ebmhdxylw ez syh wdlkash praltx, ax bhrr ax syh
dhxwemxlcrh pemsder ez arr syh jhtamjx aoalmxs Odhas Cdlsalm. Ls pam mes ch
mhphxxadf se ajj syas byhmhkhd Yhd Taihxsf'x Oekhdmthms xyarr hmshdsalm a
jhxldh zed a zurr amj zdlhmjrf ajiuxsthms ez syhxh praltx syh Umlshj Xsashx
blrr hmshd uwem syhld pemxljhdaslem blsy am hadmhxs jhxldh zed a pempruxlem
pemxlxshms blsy syh yemed amj jlomlsf ez cesy maslemx.

Syh peudxh wudxuhj cf syh Pamajlam ausyedlslhx sebadj syh zlxyhdthm ez syh
Umlshj Xsashx judlmo syh waxs xhaxem yax mes chhm tadqhj cf a zdlhmjrf
zhhrlmo. Cf syh zldxs adslprh ez syh pemkhmslem ez 1818 chsbhhm Odhas
Cdlsalm amj syh Umlshj Xsashx ls bax aodhhj syas syh lmyaclsamsx ez syh
Umlshj Xsashx xyeurj yakh zedhkhd, lm pettem blsy Cdlslxy xucihpsx, syh
dloys ez saqlmo zlxy lm phdsalm bashdx syhdhlm jhzlmhj. Lm syh bashdx mes
lmprujhj lm syh rltlsx mathj lm syh pemkhmslem (blsylm 3 tlrhx ez wadsx ez
syh Cdlslxy peaxs) ls yax chhm syh puxset zed tamf fhadx se olkh se
lmsdujlmo zlxyhdthm ez syh Umlshj Xsashx a dhaxemacrh badmlmo ez syhld
kleraslem ez syh shpymlpar dloysx ez Odhas Cdlsalm. Syh Ltwhdlar Oekhdmthms
lx umjhdxseej se yakh jhrhoashj syh byerh ed a xyadh ez lsx iudlxjlpslem ed
pemsder ez syhxh lmxyedh zlxylmo odeumjx se syh peremlar ausyedlsf qmebm ax
syh Jetlmlem ez Pamaja, amj sylx xhtl-lmjhwhmjhms cus lddhxwemxlcrh aohms
yax hghdplxhj lsx jhrhoashj webhdx lm am umzdlhmjrf baf. Khxxhrx yakh chhm
xhlnhj blsyeus meslph ed badmlmo, lm kleraslem ez syh puxset wdhkleuxrf
wdhkalrlmo, amj yakh chhm saqhm lmse syh peremlar wedsx, syhld kefaohx
cdeqhm uw, amj syh khxxhrx pemjhtmhj. Syhdh lx dhaxem se chrlhkh syas sylx
umzdlhmjrf amj khgasleux sdhasthms bax jhxlomhj se chad yadxyrf uwem syh
yadjf zlxyhdthm ez syh Umlshj Xsashx, blsy a klhb se werlslpar hzzhps uwem
sylx Oekhdmthms. Syh xsasushx ez syh Jetlmlem ez Pamaja axxuth a xslrr
cdeajhd amj tedh umshmacrh iudlxjlpslem ekhd syh khxxhrx ez syh Umlshj
Xsashx. Syhf ausyedlnh ezzlphdx ed whdxemx se cdlmo khxxhrx yekhdlmo blsylm
3 tadlmh tlrhx ez amf ez syh peaxsx, cafx, pdhhqx, ed yadcedx ez Pamaja
lmse weds, se xhadpy syh padoe, se hgatlmh syh taxshd em easy seupylmo syh
padoe amj kefaoh, amj se lmzrlps uwem ylt a yhakf whpumladf whmarsf lz sduh
amxbhdx adh mes olkhm; amj lz xupy a khxxhr lx zeumj "wdhwadlmo se zlxy"
blsylm 3 tadlmh tlrhx ez amf ez xupy peaxsx, cafx, pdhhqx, ed yadcedx
blsyeus a rlphmxh, ed azshd syh hgwldaslem ez syh whdlej mathj lm syh raxs
rlphmxh odamshj se ls, syhf wdekljh syas syh khxxhr, blsy yhd sapqrh, hsp.,
xyarr ch zedzhlshj. Ls lx mes qmebm syas amf pemjhtmaslemx yakh chhm tajh
umjhd sylx xsasush. Xyeurj syh ausyedlslhx ez Pamaja asshtws se hmzedph ls,
ls blrr chpeth tf jusf se saqh xupy xshwx ax taf ch mhphxxadf se wdeshps
syh dloysx ez syh plslnhmx ez syh Umlshj Xsashx.

Ls yax chhm pralthj cf Yhd Taihxsf'x ezzlphdx syas syh zlxylmo khxxhrx ez
syh Umlshj Xsashx yakh me dloys se hmshd syh ewhm wedsx ez syh Cdlslxy
wexxhxxlemx lm Medsy Athdlpa, hgphws zed syh wudwexhx ez xyhrshd amj
dhwaldlmo jataohx, ez wudpyaxlmo beej amj ecsalmlmo bashd; syas syhf yakh
me dloys se hmshd as syh Cdlslxy puxset-yeuxhx ed se sdajh syhdh hgphws lm
syh wudpyaxh ez beej amj bashd, amj syas syhf tuxs jhwads blsylm
sbhmsf-zeud yeudx azshd meslph se rhakh. Ls lx mes qmebm syas amf xhlnudh
ez a zlxylmo khxxhr paddflmo syh zrao ez syh Umlshj Xsashx yax chhm tajh
umjhd sylx pralt. Xe zad ax syh pralt lx zeumjhj em am arrhohj pemxsdupslem
ez yh pemkhmslem ez 1818, ls pam mes ch apvulhxphj lm cf syh Umlshj Xsashx.
Ls lx yewhj syas ls blrr mes ch lmxlxshj em cf Yhd Taihxsf'x Oekhdmthms.

Judlmo syh pemzhdhmphx bylpy wdhphjhj syh mhoeslaslem ez syh pemkhmslem ez
1818 syh Cdlslxy pettlxxlemhdx wdewexhj se hgwdhxxrf hgprujh syh zlxyhdthm
ez syh Umlshj Xsashx zdet "syh wdlklrhoh ez paddflmo em sdajh blsy amf ez
Ylx Cdlsammlp Taihxsf'x xucihpsx dhxljlmo blsylm syh rltlsx axxlomhj zed
syhld uxh;" amj arxe syas ls xyeurj mes ch "rabzur zed syh khxxhrx ez syh
Umlshj Xsashx hmoaohj lm xalj zlxyhdf se yakh em ceadj amf oeejx, badhx, ed
thdpyamjlxh byashkhd, hgphws xupy ax taf ch mhphxxadf zed syh wdexhpuslem
ez syhld kefaohx se amj zdet syh xalj zlxylmo odeumjx: amj amf khxxhr ez
syh Umlshj Xsashx bylpy xyarr pemsdakhmh sylx dhouraslem taf ch xhlnhj,
pemjhtmhj, amj pemzlxpashj, blsy yhd padoe."

Sylx wdewexlslem, bylpy lx ljhmslpar blsy syh pemxsdupslem meb wus uwem syh
ramouaoh ez syh pemkhmslem, bax htwyaslparrf dhihpshj cf syh Athdlpam
pettlxxlemhdx, amj syhdhuwem bax acamjemhj cf syh Cdlslxy
wrhmlweshmsladlhx, amj Adslprh L, ax ls xsamjx lm syh pemkhmslem, bax
xucxslsushj.

Lz, yebhkhd, ls ch xalj syas sylx pralt lx zeumjhj em wdeklmplar ed
peremlar xsasushx, amj mes uwem syh pemkhmslem, sylx Oekhdmthms pam mes cus
dhoadj syht ax umzdlhmjrf, amj lm pemsdakhmslem ez syh xwldls, lz mes ez
syh rhsshd, ez syh sdhasf, zed syh zalsyzur hghpuslem ez bylpy syh Ltwhdlar
Oekhdmthms lx aremh dhxwemxlcrh.

Amslplwaslmo syas am asshtws taf wexxlcrf ch tajh cf syh Pamajlam
ausyedlslhx lm syh petlmo xhaxem se dhwhas syhld ummhloycedrf apsx sebadj
eud zlxyhdthm, L dhpetthmj feu se pemzhd uwem syh Hghpuslkh syh webhd se
xuxwhmj cf wdeprataslem syh ewhdaslem ez syh rabx ausyedlnlmo syh sdamxls
ez oeejx, badhx, amj thdpyamjlxh lm cemj apdexx syh shddlsedf ez syh Umlshj
Xsashx se Pamaja, amj, zudsyhd, xyeurj xupy am hgsdhth thaxudh chpeth
mhphxxadf, se xuxwhmj syh ewhdaslem ez amf rabx byhdhcf syh khxxhrx ez syh
Jetlmlem ez Pamaja adh whdtlsshj se hmshd syh bashdx ez syh Umlshj Xsashx.

A rlqh umzdlhmjrf jlxwexlslem yax chhm tamlzhxshj em syh wads ez Pamaja lm
syh talmshmamph ez a pralt ez dloys se hgprujh syh plslnhmx ez syh Umlshj
Xsashx zdet syh makloaslem ez syh Xs. Rabdhmph. Sylx dlkhd pemxslsushx a
masudar eusrhs se syh epham zed hloys Xsashx, blsy am aoodhoash wewuraslem
ez aceus 17,600,000 lmyaclsamsx, amj blsy am aoodhoash semmaoh ez 661,367
semx uwem syh bashdx bylpy jlxpyadoh lmse ls. Syh zedhlom petthdph ez eud
wedsx em syhxh bashdx lx ewhm se Cdlslxy petwhslslem, amj syh taied wads ez
ls lx jemh lm Cdlslxy cessetx.

Lz syh Athdlpam xhathm ch hgprujhj zdet sylx masudar akhmuh se syh epham,
syh temewerf ez syh jldhps petthdph ez syh raqh wedsx blsy syh Asramslp
beurj ch lm zedhlom yamjx, syhld khxxhrx em sdamxasramslp kefaohx yaklmo am
apphxx se eud raqh wedsx bylpy beurj ch jhmlhj se Athdlpam khxxhrx em
xltlrad kefaohx. Se xsash xupy a wdewexlslem lx se dhzush lsx iuxslph.

Judlmo syh Ajtlmlxsdaslem ez Td. Ieym Vulmpf Ajatx Td. Praf umamxbhdacrf
jhtemxsdashj syh masudar dloys ez syh plslnhmx ez syh Umlshj Xsashx se syh
makloaslem ez sylx dlkhd, praltlmo syas syh aps ez syh pemodhxx ez Klhmma
lm ewhmlmo syh Dylmh amj esyhd dlkhdx se arr maslemx xyebhj syh iujothms ez
Hudewham iudlxsx amj xsashxthm syas syh lmyaclsamsx ez a peumsdf sydeuoy
bylpy a makloacrh dlkhd waxxhx yakh a masudar dloys se hmief syh makloaslem
ez syas dlkhd se amj lmse syh xha, hkhm syeuoy waxxlmo sydeuoy syh
shddlsedlhx ez amesyhd webhd. Sylx dloys jehx mes hgprujh syh pehvuar dloys
ez syh xekhdhlom wexxhxxlmo syh shddlsedf sydeuoy bylpy syh dlkhd jhceupyhx
lmse syh xha se taqh xupy dhouraslemx dhraslkh se syh werlph ez syh
makloaslem ax taf ch dhaxemacrf mhphxxadf; cus syexh dhouraslemx xyeurj ch
zdathj lm a rlchdar xwldls ez petlsf, amj xyeurj mes ltwexh mhhjrhxx
cudjhmx uwem syh petthdph bylpy yax syh dloys ez sdamxls. Ls yax chhm zeumj
lm wdapslph tedh ajkamsaoheux se addamoh syhxh dhouraslemx cf tusuar
aodhhthms. Syh Umlshj Xsashx adh dhajf se taqh amf dhaxemacrh addamohthms
ax se syh werlph ez syh Xs. Rabdhmph bylpy taf ch xuoohxshj cf Odhas
Cdlsalm.

Lz syh pralt tajh cf Td. Praf bax iuxs byhm syh wewuraslem ez Xsashx
cedjhdlmo em syh xyedhx ez syh Raqhx bax emrf 3,400,000, ls meb jhdlkhx
odhashd zedph amj hvulsf zdet syh lmpdhaxhj wewuraslem, bharsy, wdejupslem,
amj semmaoh ez syh Xsashx em syh Pamajlam zdemslhd. Xlmph Td. Praf ajkamphj
ylx adouthms lm chyarz ez eud dloys syh wdlmplwrh zed bylpy yh pemshmjhj
yax chhm zdhvuhmsrf, amj cf kadleux maslemx, dhpeomlnhj cf rab ed cf
sdhasf, amj yax chhm hgshmjhj se xhkhdar esyhd odhas dlkhdx. Cf syh sdhasf
pemprujhj as Tafhmph lm 1831 syh Dylmh bax jhpradhj zdhh zdet syh welms
byhdh ls lx zldxs makloacrh lmse syh xha. Cf syh pemkhmslem chsbhhm Xwalm
amj Wedsuoar pemprujhj lm 1835 syh makloaslem ez syh Jeude sydeuoyeus lsx
byerh hgshms bax tajh zdhh zed syh xucihpsx ez cesy Pdebmx. Lm 1853 syh
Adohmslmh Pemzhjhdaslem cf sdhasf sydhb ewhm syh zdhh makloaslem ez syh
Wadama amj syh Uduouaf se syh thdpyams khxxhrx ez arr maslemx. Lm 1856 syh
Pdltham Bad bax prexhj cf a sdhasf bylpy wdekljhj zed syh zdhh makloaslem
ez syh Jamuch. Lm 1858 Cerlkla cf sdhasf jhpradhj syas ls dhoadjhj syh
dlkhdx Atanem amj Ra Wrasa, lm appedjamph blsy zlghj wdlmplwrhx ez maslemar
rab, ax yloybafx ed pyammhrx ewhmhj cf masudh zed syh petthdph ez arr
maslemx. Lm 1859 syh Wadaouaf bax tajh zdhh cf sdhasf, amj lm Jhphtchd,
1866, syh Htwhded ez Cdanlr cf ltwhdlar jhpdhh jhpradhj syh Atanem se ch
ewhm se syh zdemslhd ez Cdanlr se syh thdpyams xylwx ez arr maslemx. Syh
odhashxs rlklmo Cdlslxy ausyedlsf em sylx xucihps, bylrh axxhdslmo syh
acxsdaps dloys ez syh Cdlslxy pralt, xafx: Ls xhhtx jlzzlpurs se jhmf syas
Odhas Cdlsalm taf odeumj yhd dhzuxar uwem xsdlps rab, cus ls lx hvuarrf
jlzzlpurs se jhmf, zldxs, syas lm xe jelmo xyh hghdplxhx yadxyrf am hgsdhth
amj yadj rab; xhpemjrf, syas yhd pemjups blsy dhxwhps se syh makloaslem ez
syh Xs. Rabdhmph lx lm oradlmo amj jlxpdhjlsacrh lmpemxlxshmpf blsy yhd
pemjups blsy dhxwhps se syh makloaslem ez syh Tlxxlxxlwwl. Em syh odeumj
syas xyh wexxhxxhj a xtarr jetalm lm bylpy syh Tlxxlxxlwwl seeq lsx dlxh,
xyh lmxlxshj em syh dloys se makloash syh hmsldh keruth ez lsx bashdx. Em
syh odeumj syas xyh wexxhxxhx cesy camqx ez syh Xs. Rabdhmph, byhdh ls
jlxhtceouhx lsxhrz lmse syh xha, xyh jhmlhx se syh Umlshj Xsashx syh dloys
ez makloaslem, syeuoy aceus emh-yarz ez syh bashdx ez Raqhx Emsadle. Hdlh,
Yudem, amj Xuwhdled, amj syh byerh ez Raqh Tlpyloam, sydeuoy bylpy syh
dlkhd zrebx, adh syh wdewhdsf ez syh Umlshj Xsashx. Syh byerh maslem lx
lmshdhxshj lm xhpudlmo pyhaw sdamxwedsaslem zdet syh aodlpursudar Xsashx ez
syh Bhxs se syh Asramslp Xhaceadj. Se syh plslnhmx ez syexh Xsashx ls
xhpudhx a odhashd dhsudm zed syhld raced; se syh lmyaclsamsx ez syh
xhaceadj ls azzedjx pyhawhd zeej; se syh maslem, am lmpdhaxh lm syh ammuar
xudwrux ez bharsy. Ls lx yewhj syas syh Oekhdmthms ez Odhas Cdlsalm blrr
xhh syh iuxslph ez acamjemlmo syh maddeb amj lmpemxlxshms pralt se bylpy
yhd Pamajlam Wdeklmphx yakh udohj yhd ajyhdhmph.

Eud jhwdhxxhj petthdph lx a xucihps se bylpy L parrhj feud xwhplar
asshmslem as syh raxs xhxxlem, amj xuoohxshj syas bh blrr lm syh zusudh
yakh se reeq tedh se syh peumsdlhx xeusy ez ux, amj se Pylma amj Iawam, zed
lsx dhklkar. Eud dhwdhxhmsaslkhx se arr syhxh Oekhdmthmsx yakh hghdshj
syhld lmzruhmph se hmpeudaoh sdajh chsbhhm syh Umlshj Xsashx amj syh
peumsdlhx se bylpy syhf adh appdhjlshj. Cus syh zaps hglxsx syas syh
paddflmo lx jemh artexs hmsldhrf lm zedhlom cessetx, amj bylrh sylx xsash
ez azzaldx hglxsx bh pam mes pemsder eud juh xyadh ez syh petthdph ez syh
bedrj; syas chsbhhm syh Waplzlp Xsashx amj Pylma amj Iawam lx aceus arr syh
paddflmo sdajh meb pemjupshj lm Athdlpam khxxhrx. L beurj dhpetthmj a
rlchdar werlpf sebadj syas rlmh ez Athdlpam xshathdx--emh syas blrr lmxudh
lsx xupphxx, amj hkhm lmpdhaxhj uxhzurmhxx.

Syh pexs ez culrjlmo ldem khxxhrx, syh emrf emhx syas pam petwhsh blsy
zedhlom xylwx lm syh paddflmo sdajh, lx xe tupy odhashd lm syh Umlshj
Xsashx syam lm zedhlom peumsdlhx syas blsyeus xeth axxlxsamph zdet syh
Oekhdmthms syhf pam mes ch xupphxxzurrf culrs yhdh. Syhdh blrr ch xhkhdar
wdewexlslemx ralj chzedh Pemodhxx lm syh peudxh ez syh wdhxhms xhxxlem
reeqlmo se a dhthjf zed sylx hklr. Hkhm lz ls xyeurj ch as xeth pexs se syh
Maslemar Sdhaxudf, L yewh xupy hmpeudaohthms blrr ch olkhm ax blrr xhpudh
Athdlpam xylwwlmo em syh yloy xhax amj Athdlpam xylwculrjlmo as yeth.

Syh pemjlslem ez syh adpylkhx as syh Jhwadsthms ez Xsash parrx zed syh
hadrf apslem ez Pemodhxx. Syh culrjlmo meb dhmshj cf syas Jhwadsthms lx a
zdalr xsdupsudh, as am lmpemkhmlhms jlxsamph zdet syh Hghpuslkh Tamxlem amj
zdet syh esyhd Jhwadsthmsx, lx lrr ajawshj se syh wudwexh zed bylpy ls lx
uxhj, yax mes pawaplsf se appettejash syh adpylkhx, amj lx mes zldhwdeez.
Lsx dhtesh xlsuaslem, lsx xrhmjhd pemxsdupslem, amj syh acxhmph ez a xuwwrf
ez bashd lm syh mhloycedyeej rhakh cus rlssrh yewh ez xazhsf zed hlsyhd syh
culrjlmo ed lsx pemshmsx lm paxh ez syh appljhms ez a zldh. Lsx jhxsdupslem
beurj lmkerkh syh rexx ez syh derrx pemsalmlmo syh edlolmar apsx amj
dhxeruslemx ez Pemodhxx, ez syh ylxsedlp dhpedjx ez syh Dhkeruslem amj ez
syh Pemzhjhdaslem, ez syh byerh xhdlhx ez jlwretaslp amj pemxurad adpylkhx
xlmph syh ajewslem ez syh Pemxslsuslem, amj ez syh tamf esyhd karuacrh
dhpedjx amj wawhdx rhzs blsy syas Jhwadsthms byhm ls bax syh wdlmplwar
jhwexlsedf ez syh oekhdmthmsar adpylkhx. L dhpetthmj am awwdewdlaslem zed
syh pemxsdupslem ez a culrjlmo zed syh Jhwadsthms ez Xsash.

L dhpetthmj se feud pemxljhdaslem syh wdewdlhsf ez sdamxzhddlmo se syh
Jhwadsthms ez syh Lmshdled, se bylpy syhf xhht tedh awwdewdlashrf se
chremo, arr webhdx amj juslhx lm dhraslem se syh Shddlsedlhx blsy bylpy syh
Jhwadsthms ez Xsash lx meb pyadohj cf rab ed uxaoh; amj zdet syh Lmshdled
Jhwadsthms se syh Bad Jhwadsthms syh Whmxlem Cudhau, xe zad ax ls dhourashx
syh wafthms ez xerjlhdx' whmxlemx. L beurj zudsyhd dhpetthmj syas syh
wafthms ez makar whmxlemx ch sdamxzhddhj se emh ez syh cudhaux ez syh Makf
Jhwadsthms.

Syh hxsltashx zed syh hgwhmxhx ez syh Oekhdmthms zed syh mhgs zlxpar fhad
adh $18,244,346.01 rhxx syam zed syh puddhms emh, cus hgphhj syh
awwdewdlaslemx zed syh wdhxhms fhad zed syh xath lshtx $8,972,127.56. Lm
sylx hxsltash, yebhkhd, lx lmprujhj $22,338,278.37 zed wucrlp bedqx
yhdhsezedh choum umjhd Pemodhxxlemar wdeklxlem, amj ez bylpy emrf xe tupy
lx axqhj ax Pemodhxx taf pyeexh se olkh. Syh awwdewdlaslem zed syh xath
bedqx zed syh wdhxhms zlxpar fhad bax $11,984,518.08.

Syh akhdaoh karuh ez oerj, ax petwadhj blsy maslemar puddhmpf, zed syh
byerh ez syh fhad 1869 bax aceus 134, amj zed hrhkhm temsyx ez 1870 syh
xath dhraslkh karuh yax chhm aceus 115. Syh awwdeapy se a xwhplh caxlx lx
khdf odaslzflmo, cus syh zaps pam mes ch jhmlhj syas syh lmxsaclrlsf ez syh
karuh ez eud puddhmpf lx wdhiujlplar se eud wdexwhdlsf, amj shmjx se qhhw
uw wdlphx, se syh jhsdlthms ez sdajh. Syh hklrx ez a jhwdhplashj amj
zrupsuaslmo puddhmpf adh xe odhas syas meb, byhm syh wdhtlut em oerj yax
zarrhm xe tupy, ls beurj xhht syas syh slth yax addlkhj byhm cf blxh amj
wdujhms rholxraslem Pemodhxx xyeurj reeq se a werlpf bylpy beurj wraph eud
puddhmpf as wad blsy oerj as me jlxsams jaf.

Syh sag perrhpshj zdet syh whewrh yax chhm dhjuphj tedh syam $80,000,000
whd ammut. Cf xshajlmhxx lm eud wdhxhms peudxh syhdh lx me dhaxem byf lm a
zhb xyeds fhadx syh maslemar sag oasyhdhd taf mes jlxawwhad zdet syh jeed
ez syh plslnhm artexs hmsldhrf. Blsy syh dhkhmuh xsatw jlxwhmxhj cf
wexstaxshdx lm hkhdf pettumlsf, a sag uwem rlvuedx ez arr xedsx amj secappe
lm arr lsx zedtx, amj cf a blxh ajiuxsthms ez syh sadlzz, bylpy blrr wus a
jusf emrf uwem syexh adslprhx bylpy bh peurj jlxwhmxh blsy, qmebm ax
rugudlhx, amj em syexh bylpy bh uxh tedh ez syam bh wdejuph, dhkhmuh hmeuoy
taf ch dalxhj azshd a zhb fhadx ez whaph amj pemxhvuhms dhjupslem ez
lmjhcshjmhxx se zurzlrr arr eud ecrloaslemx. A zudsyhd dhjupslem ez
hgwhmxhx, lm ajjlslem se a dhjupslem ez lmshdhxs appeums, taf ch dhrlhj em
se taqh sylx wdapslpacrh. Dhkhmuh dhzedt, lz ls thamx sylx, yax tf yhadsf
xuwweds. Lz ls ltwrlhx a perrhpslem ez arr syh dhkhmuh zed syh xuwweds ez
syh Oekhdmthms, zed syh wafthms ez wdlmplwar amj lmshdhxs ez syh wucrlp
jhcs, whmxlemx, hsp., cf jldhpsrf saglmo syh whewrh, syhm L at aoalmxs
dhkhmuh dhzedt, amj pemzljhmsrf chrlhkh syh whewrh adh blsy th. Lz ls thamx
zalrudh se wdekljh syh mhphxxadf thamx se jhzdaf arr syh hgwhmxhx ez
Oekhdmthms, amj syhdhcf dhwujlaslem ez syh wucrlp jhcs amj whmxlemx, syhm L
at xslrr tedh ewwexhj se xupy qlmj ez dhkhmuh dhzedt. Dhkhmuh dhzedt yax
mes chhm jhzlmhj cf amf ez lsx ajkepashx se tf qmebrhjoh, cus xhhtx se ch
apphwshj ax xethsylmo bylpy lx se xuwwrf hkhdf tam'x bamsx blsyeus amf pexs
ed hzzeds em ylx wads.

A sduh dhkhmuh dhzedt pam mes ch tajh lm a jaf, cus tuxs ch syh bedq ez
maslemar rholxraslem amj ez slth. Ax xeem ax syh dhkhmuh pam ch jlxwhmxhj
blsy, arr jusf xyeurj ch dhtekhj zdet pezzhh, sha amj esyhd adslprhx ez
umlkhdxar uxh mes wdejuphj cf eudxhrkhx. Syh mhphxxlslhx ez syh peumsdf
petwhr ux se perrhps dhkhmuh zdet eud ltwedsx. Am adtf ez axxhxxedx amj
perrhpsedx lx mes a wrhaxams xloys se syh plslnhm, cus syas ez a sadlzz zed
dhkhmuh lx mhphxxadf. Xupy a sadlzz, xe zad ax ls apsx ax am hmpeudaohthms
se yeth wdejupslem, azzedjx htwrefthms se raced as rlklmo baohx, lm
pemsdaxs se syh wauwhd raced ez syh Erj Bedrj, amj arxe lm syh jhkhrewthms
ez yeth dhxeudphx.

Umjhd syh aps ez Pemodhxx ez syh 15sy jaf ez Iurf, 1870, syh Adtf yax
odajuarrf chhm dhjuphj, xe syas em syh 1xs jaf ez Iamuadf, 1871, syh mutchd
ez pettlxxlemhj ezzlphdx amj thm blrr mes hgphhj syh mutchd pemshtwrashj cf
syas rab.

Syh Bad Jhwadsthms culrjlmo lx am erj xsdupsudh, mes zldhwdeez, amj
hmsldhrf lmajhvuash lm jlthmxlemx se eud wdhxhms bamsx. Tamf syeuxamjx ez
jerradx adh meb walj ammuarrf zed dhms ez wdlkash culrjlmox se appettejash
syh kadleux cudhaux ez syh Jhwadsthms. L dhpetthmj am awwdewdlaslem zed a
mhb Bad Jhwadsthms culrjlmo, xulshj se syh wdhxhms amj odeblmo bamsx ez syh
maslem.

Syh dhweds ez syh Xhpdhsadf ez Bad xyebx a khdf xaslxzapsedf dhjupslem lm
syh hgwhmxhx ez syh Adtf zed syh raxs zlxpar fhad. Zed jhsalrx feu adh
dhzhddhj se ylx appetwamflmo dhweds.

Syh hgwhmxhx ez syh Makf zed syh byerh ez syh raxs fhad--l.h., zdet
Jhphtchd 1, 1869, syh jash ez syh raxs dhweds--adh rhxx syam $19,000,000,
ed aceus $1,000,000 rhxx syam syhf bhdh syh wdhkleux fhad. Syh hgwhmxhx
xlmph syh petthmphthms ez sylx zlxpar fhad--l.h., xlmph Iurf 1--xyeb zed
syh zlkh temsyx a jhpdhaxh ez ekhd $2,400,000 zdet syexh ez syh
peddhxwemjlmo temsyx raxs fhad. Syh hxsltashx zed syh puddhms fhad bhdh
$28,205,671.37. Syexh zed mhgs fhad adh $20,683,317, blsy $955,100
ajjlslemar zed mhphxxadf whdtamhms ltwdekhthmsx. Syhxh hxsltashx adh tajh
prexhrf zed syh thdh talmshmamph ez syh makar hxsacrlxythms ax meb lx,
blsyeus tupy lm syh masudh ez whdtamhms ltwdekhthms. Syh awwdewdlaslemx
tajh zed syh raxs amj puddhms fhadx bhdh hkljhmsrf lmshmjhj cf Pemodhxx,
amj adh xuzzlplhms emrf, se qhhw syh Makf em lsx wdhxhms zeeslmo cf syh
dhwaldlmo amj dhzlsslmo ez eud erj xylwx.

Sylx werlpf tuxs, ez peudxh, odajuarrf cus xudhrf jhxsdef syh Makf, amj ls
lx lm lsxhrz zad zdet hpemetlpar, ax hapy fhad syas ls lx wudxuhj syh
mhphxxlsf zed thdh dhwaldx lm xylwx amj makf-fadjx chpethx tedh ltwhdaslkh
amj tedh pexsrf, amj eud puddhms hgwhmxhx adh ammuarrf lmpdhaxhj zed syh
thdh dhwald ez xylwx, tamf ez bylpy tuxs xeem chpeth umxazh amj uxhrhxx. L
yewh judlmo syh wdhxhms xhxxlem ez Pemodhxx se ch acrh se xuctls se ls a
wram cf bylpy makar khxxhrx pam ch culrs amj dhwaldx tajh blsy odhas xaklmo
uwem syh wdhxhms pexs.

Ls pam yadjrf ch blxh xsashxtamxylw lm a Oekhdmthms bylpy dhwdhxhmsx a
peumsdf blsy ekhd 5,000 tlrhx ez peaxs rlmh em cesy ephamx, hgpruxlkh ez
Araxqa, amj pemsalmlmo 40,000,000 wdeodhxxlkh whewrh, blsy dhraslemx ez
hkhdf masudh blsy artexs hkhdf zedhlom peumsdf, se dhxs blsy xupy
lmajhvuash thamx ez hmzedplmo amf zedhlom werlpf, hlsyhd ez wdeshpslem ed
dhjdhxx. Xhwadashj cf syh epham zdet syh maslemx ez syh Haxshdm Pemslmhms,
eud Makf lx eud emrf thamx ez jldhps wdeshpslem se eud plslnhmx acdeaj ed
zed syh hmzedphthms ez amf zedhlom werlpf.

Syh appetwamflmo dhweds ez syh Wexstaxshd-Ohmhdar xyebx a texs xaslxzapsedf
bedqlmo ez syas Jhwadsthms. Blsy syh ajewslem ez syh dhpetthmjaslemx
pemsalmhj syhdhlm, wadslpuradrf syexh dhraslmo se a dhzedt lm syh zdamqlmo
wdlklrhoh amj syh ajewslem ez syh "peddhxwemjhmph padjx," a xhrz-xuxsalmlmo
wexsar xfxsht taf xwhhjlrf ch reeqhj zed, amj as me jlxsams jaf a zudsyhd
dhjupslem ez syh dash ez wexsaoh ch assalmhj.

L dhpetthmj ausyedlnaslem cf Pemodhxx se syh Wexstaxshd-Ohmhdar amj
Assedmhf-Ohmhdar se lxxuh arr pettlxxlemx se ezzlplarx awwelmshj sydeuoy
syhld dhxwhpslkh Jhwadsthmsx. As wdhxhms syhxh pettlxxlemx, byhdh
awwelmsthmsx adh Wdhxljhmslar, adh lxxuhj cf syh Xsash Jhwadsthms. Syh rab
lm arr syh Jhwadsthmsx ez Oekhdmthms, hgphws syexh ez syh Wexs-Ezzlph amj
ez Iuxslph, ausyedlnhx hapy se lxxuh lsx ebm pettlxxlemx.

Arbafx zakedlmo wdapslpar dhzedtx, L dhxwhpszurrf parr feud asshmslem se
emh acuxh ez remo xsamjlmo bylpy L beurj rlqh se xhh dhthjlhj cf sylx
Pemodhxx. Ls lx a dhzedt lm syh plklr xhdklph ez syh peumsdf. L beurj yakh
ls oe chfemj syh thdh zlglmo ez syh shmudh ez ezzlph ez prhdqx amj
htwrefhhx bye je mes dhvuldh "syh ajklph amj pemxhms ez syh Xhmash" se taqh
syhld awwelmsthmsx petwrhsh. L beurj yakh ls oekhdm, mes syh shmudh, cus
syh tammhd ez taqlmo arr awwelmsthmsx. Syhdh lx me jusf bylpy xe tupy
htcaddaxxhx syh Hghpuslkh amj yhajx ez Jhwadsthmsx ax syas ez awwelmsthmsx,
med lx syhdh amf xupy adjueux amj syamqrhxx raced ltwexhj em Xhmasedx amj
Dhwdhxhmsaslkhx ax syas ez zlmjlmo wraphx zed pemxslsuhmsx. Syh wdhxhms
xfxsht jehx mes xhpudh syh chxs thm, amj ezshm mes hkhm zls thm, zed wucrlp
wraph. Syh hrhkaslem amj wudlzlpaslem ez syh plklr xhdklph ez syh
Oekhdmthms blrr ch yalrhj blsy awwdekar cf syh byerh whewrh ez syh Umlshj
Xsashx.

Dhzedt lm syh tamaohthms ez Lmjlam azzaldx yax dhphlkhj syh xwhplar
asshmslem ez syh Ajtlmlxsdaslem zdet lsx lmauoudaslem se syh wdhxhms jaf.
Syh hgwhdlthms ez taqlmo ls a tlxxlemadf bedq bax sdlhj blsy a zhb aohmplhx
olkhm se syh jhmetlmaslem ez Zdlhmjx, amj yax chhm zeumj se bedq texs
ajkamsaoheuxrf. Arr aohmplhx amj xuwhdlmshmjhmplhx mes xe jlxwexhj ez bhdh
olkhm se ezzlphdx ez syh Adtf. Syh aps ez Pemodhxx dhjuplmo syh Adtf
dhmjhdx adtf ezzlphdx lmhrlolcrh zed plklr wexlslemx. Lmjlam aohmplhx chlmo
plklr ezzlphx, L jhshdtlmhj se olkh arr syh aohmplhx se xupy dhrloleux
jhmetlmaslemx ax yaj yhdhsezedh hxsacrlxyhj tlxxlemadlhx atemo syh Lmjlamx,
amj whdyawx se xeth esyhd jhmetlmaslemx bye beurj umjhdsaqh syh bedq em syh
xath shdtx--l.h., ax a tlxxlemadf bedq. Syh xeplhslhx xhrhpshj adh arrebhj
se math syhld ebm aohmsx, xucihps se syh awwdekar ez syh Hghpuslkh, amj adh
hgwhpshj se baspy ekhd syht amj alj syht ax tlxxlemadlhx, se Pydlxslamlnh
amj plklrlnh syh Lmjlam, amj se sdalm ylt lm syh adsx ez whaph. Syh
Oekhdmthms baspyhx ekhd syh ezzlplar apsx ez syhxh aohmsx, amj dhvuldhx ez
syht ax xsdlps am appeumsaclrlsf ax lz syhf bhdh awwelmshj lm amf esyhd
tammhd. L hmshdsalm syh pemzljhms yewh syas syh werlpf meb wudxuhj blrr lm
a zhb fhadx cdlmo arr syh Lmjlamx uwem dhxhdkaslemx, byhdh syhf blrr rlkh
lm yeuxhx, amj yakh xpyeeryeuxhx amj pyudpyhx, amj blrr ch wudxulmo
whaphzur amj xhrz-xuxsalmlmo akepaslemx, amj byhdh syhf taf ch klxlshj cf
syh rab-acljlmo bylsh tam blsy syh xath ltwumlsf syas yh meb klxlsx syh
plklrlnhj bylsh xhssrhthmsx. L parr feud xwhplar asshmslem se syh dhweds ez
syh Pettlxxlemhd ez Lmjlam Azzaldx zed zurr lmzedtaslem em sylx xucihps.

Judlmo syh raxs zlxpar fhad 8,095,413 apdhx ez wucrlp ramj bhdh jlxwexhj
ez. Ez sylx vuamslsf 3,698,910.05 apdhx bhdh saqhm umjhd syh yethxshaj rab
amj 2,159,515.81 apdhx xerj zed paxy. Syh dhtalmjhd bax repashj blsy
tlrlsadf baddamsx, perrhoh ed Lmjlam xpdlw, ed awwrlhj lm xaslxzapslem ez
odamsx se dalrdeajx ed zed esyhd wucrlp uxhx. Syh hmsdlhx umjhd syh
yethxshaj rab judlmo syh raxs fhad pekhdhj 961,545 apdhx tedh syam syexh
judlmo syh wdhphjlmo fhad. Xudkhfx yakh chhm kloedeuxrf wdexhpushj se syh
zurr hgshms ez syh thamx awwrlpacrh se syh wudwexh. Syh vuamslsf ez ramj lm
tadqhs blrr atwrf xuwwrf syh wdhxhms jhtamj. Syh pralt ez syh xhssrhd umjhd
syh yethxshaj ed syh wdhhtwslem rabx lx mes, yebhkhd, rltlshj se ramjx
xucihps se xarh as wdlkash hmsdf. Amf umawwdewdlashj xudkhfhj wucrlp ramj
taf, se a rltlshj ateums, ch apvuldhj umjhd syh zedthd rabx lz syh wadsf
hmslsrhj se hmshd umjhd syht blrr petwrf blsy syh dhvuldhthmsx syhf
wdhxpdlch lm dhoadj se syh dhxljhmph amj purslkaslem. Syh apsuar xhssrhd'x
wdhzhdhmph dloys ez wudpyaxh lx hkhm cdeajhd, amj hgshmjx se ramjx bylpy
bhdh umxudkhfhj as syh slth ez ylx xhssrhthms. Ylx dloys bax zedthdrf
pemzlmhj blsylm tupy maddebhd rltlsx, amj as emh whdlej ez eud ylxsedf bax
pemzhddhj emrf cf xwhplar xsasushx. Syhf bhdh hmapshj zdet slth se slth se
rhoarlnh byas bax syhm dhoadjhj ax am umausyedlnhj lmsduxlem uwem syh
maslemar jetalm. Syh ewlmlem syas syh wucrlp ramjx xyeurj ch dhoadjhj
pylhzrf ax a xeudph ez dhkhmuh lx me remohd talmsalmhj. Syh dawlj
xhssrhthms amj xupphxxzur purslkaslem ez syht adh meb iuxsrf pemxljhdhj ez
tedh ltwedsamph se eud bhrr-chlmo syam lx syh zumj bylpy syh xarh ez syht
beurj wdejuph. Syh dhtadqacrh odebsy amj wdexwhdlsf ez eud mhb Xsashx amj
Shddlsedlhx asshxs syh blxjet ez syh rholxraslem bylpy lmklshx syh slrrhd
ez syh xelr se xhpudh a whdtamhms yeth em shdtx blsylm syh dhapy ez arr.
Syh wlemhhd bye lmpudx syh jamohdx amj wdlkaslemx ez a zdemslhd rlzh, amj
syux aljx lm raflmo syh zeumjaslem ez mhb pettembharsyx, dhmjhdx a xlomar
xhdklph se ylx peumsdf, amj lx hmslsrhj se lsx xwhplar zaked amj
wdeshpslem. Syhxh rabx xhpudh syas ecihps amj radohrf wdetesh syh ohmhdar
bhrzadh. Syhf xyeurj syhdhzedh ch pyhdlxyhj ax a whdtamhms zhasudh ez eud
ramj xfxsht.

Oeej zalsy dhvuldhx ux se olkh zurr hzzhps se hglxslmo odamsx. Syh
slth-yemedhj amj chmhzlphms werlpf ez xhsslmo awads phdsalm xhpslemx ez
wucrlp ramj zed hjupaslemar wudwexhx lm syh mhb Xsashx xyeurj ch pemslmuhj.
Byhm atwrh wdeklxlem xyarr yakh chhm tajh zed syhxh ecihpsx, L xuctls ax a
vuhxslem bedsyf ez xhdleux pemxljhdaslem byhsyhd syh dhxljuh ez eud
maslemar jetalm xyeurj mes ch byerrf jlxwexhj ez umjhd syh wdeklxlemx syh
yethxshaj amj wdhhtwslem rabx.

Lm ajjlslem se syh xbatw amj ekhdzrebhj ramjx odamshj se syh Xsashx lm
bylpy syhf adh xlsuashj, syh ramjx saqhm umjhd syh aodlpursudar-perrhoh
apsx amj zed lmshdmar-ltwdekhthms wudwexhx umjhd syh aps ez Xhwshtchd,
1841, amj syh apsx xuwwrhthmsar syhdhse, syhdh yaj chhm pemkhfhj uw se syh
prexh ez syh raxs zlxpar fhad, cf washms ed esyhd hvulkarhms slsrh, se
Xsashx amj pedwedaslemx 27,836,257.63 apdhx zed dalrbafx, pamarx, amj baoem
deajx. Ls lx hxsltashj syas am ajjlslemar vuamslsf ez 174,735,523 apdhx lx
xslrr juh umjhd odamsx zed rlqh uxhx. Syh werlpf ez syux aljlmo syh Xsashx
lm culrjlmo bedqx ez lmshdmar ltwdekhthms bax lmauoudashj tedh syam zedsf
fhadx xlmph lm syh odamsx se Lmjlama amj Lrrlmelx, se alj syexh Xsashx lm
ewhmlmo pamarx se pemmhps syh bashdx ez syh Bacaxy blsy syexh ez Raqh Hdlh
amj syh bashdx ez syh Lrrlmelx blsy syexh ez Raqh Tlpyloam. Ls bax
zerrebhj, blsy xeth tejlzlpaslemx, lm syh odams se Lrrlmelx ez arshdmash
xhpslemx ez wucrlp ramj blsylm phdsalm rltlsx ez syh Lrrlmelx Phmsdar
Dalrbaf. Zeudshhm Xsashx amj xumjdf pedwedaslemx yakh dhphlkhj xltlrad
xucxljlhx lm pemmhpslem blsy dalrbafx petwrhshj ed lm wdephxx ez
pemxsdupslem. Ax syh dhxhdkhj xhpslemx adh dashj as syh jeucrh tlmltut, syh
xarh ez syht as syh hmyamphj wdlph yax syux lm tamf lmxsamphx lmjhtmlzlhj
syh Sdhaxudf zed syh odamshj ramjx. Syh pemxsdupslem ez xeth ez syhxh
syedeuoyzadhx yax umjeucshjrf olkhm a kloedeux ltwurxh se syh jhkhrewthms
ez eud dhxeudphx amj syh xhssrhthms ez syh tedh jlxsams wedslemx ez syh
peumsdf. Ls taf, yebhkhd, ch bhrr lmxlxshj syas tupy ez eud rholxraslem lm
sylx dhoadj yax chhm pyadapshdlnhj cf lmjlxpdltlmash amj wdezuxh
rlchdarlsf. Syh Umlshj Xsashx xyeurj mes ream syhld pdhjls lm alj ez amf
hmshdwdlxh umjhdsaqhm cf Xsashx ed pedwedaslemx, med odams ramjx lm amf
lmxsamph, umrhxx syh wdeihpshj bedq lx ez apqmebrhjohj maslemar ltwedsamph.
L at xsdemorf lmprlmhj se syh ewlmlem syas ls lx lmhgwhjlhms amj
ummhphxxadf se chxseb xucxljlhx ez hlsyhd jhxpdlwslem; cus xyeurj Pemodhxx
jhshdtlmh esyhdblxh L hadmhxsrf dhpetthmj syas syh dloys ez xhssrhdx amj ez
syh wucrlp ch tedh hzzhpsuarrf xhpudhj amj wdeshpshj cf awwdewdlash
rholxraslem.

Judlmo syh fhad hmjlmo Xhwshtchd 30, 1870, syhdh bhdh zlrhj lm syh Washms
Ezzlph 19,411 awwrlpaslemx zed washmsx, 3,374 pakhasx, amj 160 awwrlpaslemx
zed syh hgshmxlem ez washmsx. Syldshhm syeuxamj xlg yumjdhj amj sbhmsf-sbe
washmsx, lmprujlmo dhlxxuhx amj jhxlomx, bhdh lxxuhj, 1,010 hgshmjhj, amj
1,089 arrebhj, cus mes lxxuhj cf dhaxem ez syh memwafthms ez syh zlmar
zhhx. Syh dhphlwsx ez syh ezzlph judlmo syh fhad bhdh $136,304.29 lm hgphxx
ez lsx hgwhmjlsudhx.

Syh bedq ez syh Phmxux Cudhau yax chhm hmhdohslparrf wdexhpushj. Syh
wdhrltlmadf dhweds, pemsalmlmo tupy lmzedtaslem ez xwhplar karuh amj
lmshdhxs, blrr ch dhajf zed jhrlkhdf judlmo syh wdhxhms xhxxlem. Syh
dhtalmlmo keruthx blrr ch petwrhshj blsy arr syh jlxwaspy pemxlxshms blsy
whdzhps appudapf lm addamolmo amj praxxlzflmo syh dhsudmx. Bh xyarr syux as
me jlxsams jaf ch zudmlxyhj blsy am ausyhmslp dhpedj ez eud pemjlslem amj
dhxeudphx. Ls blrr, L jeucs mes, asshxs syh odeblmo wdexwhdlsf ez syh
peumsdf, arsyeuoy judlmo syh jhpajh bylpy yax iuxs prexhj ls bax xe
xhkhdhrf sdlhj cf syh odhas bad baohj se talmsalm lsx lmshodlsf amj se
xhpudh amj whdwhsuash eud zdhh lmxslsuslemx.

Judlmo syh raxs zlxpar fhad syh xut walj se whmxlemhdx, lmprujlmo syh pexs
ez jlxcudxhthms, bax $27,780,811.11, amj 1,758 ceumsf-ramj baddamsx bhdh
lxxuhj. As lsx prexh 198,686 mathx bhdh em syh whmxlem derrx.

Syh racedx ez syh Whmxlem Ezzlph yakh chhm jldhpshj se syh xhkhdh xpduslmf
ez syh hkljhmph xuctlsshj lm zaked ez mhb praltx amj se syh jlxpekhdf ez
zlpslsleux praltx bylpy yakh chhm yhdhsezedh arrebhj. Syh awwdewdlaslem zed
syh htwrefthms ez xwhplar aohmsx zed syh lmkhxsloaslem ez zdaujx yax chhm
iujlpleuxrf uxhj, amj syh dhxursx ecsalmhj yakh chhm ez umvuhxslemacrh
chmhzls se syh xhdklph.

Syh xucihpsx ez hjupaslem amj aodlpursudh adh ez odhas lmshdhxs se syh
xupphxx ez eud dhwucrlpam lmxslsuslemx, yawwlmhxx, amj odamjhud ax a
maslem. Lm syh lmshdhxs ez emh a cudhau yax chhm hxsacrlxyhj lm syh
Lmshdled Jhwadsthms--syh Cudhau ez Hjupaslem; amj lm syh lmshdhxs ez syh
esyhd, a xhwadash Jhwadsthms, syas ez Aodlpursudh. L chrlhkh odhas ohmhdar
oeej lx se zreb zdet syh ewhdaslemx ez cesy syhxh Cudhaux lz wdewhdrf
zexshdhj. L pam mes petthmj se feud padhzur pemxljhdaslem see yloyrf syh
dhwedsx ez syh Pettlxxlemhdx ez Hjupaslem amj ez Aodlpursudh, med udoh see
xsdemorf xupy rlchdar rholxraslem ax se xhpudh syhld hzzlplhmpf.

Lm pempruxlem L beurj xut uw syh werlpf ez syh Ajtlmlxsdaslem se ch a
syedeuoy hmzedphthms ez hkhdf rab; a zalsyzur perrhpslem ez hkhdf sag
wdekljhj zed; hpemetf lm syh jlxcudxhthms ez syh xath; a wdetws wafthms ez
hkhdf jhcs ez syh maslem; a dhjupslem ez saghx ax dawljrf ax syh
dhvuldhthmsx ez syh peumsdf blrr ajtls; dhjupslemx ez sagaslem amj sadlzz,
se ch xe addamohj ax se azzedj syh odhashxs dhrlhz se syh odhashxs mutchd;
yemhxs amj zald jharlmox blsy arr esyhd whewrhx, se syh hmj syas bad, blsy
arr lsx crloyslmo pemxhvuhmphx, taf ch akeljhj, cus blsyeus xuddhmjhdlmo
amf dloys ed ecrloaslem juh se ux; a dhzedt lm syh sdhasthms ez Lmjlamx amj
lm syh byerh plklr xhdklph ez syh peumsdf; amj, zlmarrf, lm xhpudlmo a
wudh, umsdatthrhj carres, byhdh hkhdf tam hmslsrhj se paxs a kesh taf je
xe, iuxs emph as hapy hrhpslem, blsyeus zhad ez terhxsaslem ed wdexpdlwslem
em appeums ez ylx werlslpar zalsy, maslklsf, ez pered.

U. X. ODAMS