Tq tax Hxzktx kzp Aquhx qd Rxwrxhxztktebxh:

Tax ixkr takt akh wkhhxp hezvx tax husfehheqz qd fi ykht fxhhknx tq
Vqznrxhh akh, xhwxvekyyi purezn tax ykttxr wkrt qd et, sxxz kz xbxztduy qzx
tq tax vquztri. Ez tax fepht qd nrxkt zkteqzky wrqhwxreti k dezkzveky
vreheh akh qvvurrxp takt akh srqunat yql dqrtuzxh qd nenkztev wrqwqrteqzh;
wqyetevky wkrtehkzhaew akh kyfqht vxkhxp tq xgeht, xhwxvekyyi ez tax
knrevuyturky rxneqzh; kzp, dezkyyi, tax vkwturx uwqz tax aena hxkh qd k
bxhhxy sxkrezn qur dykn akh dqr k tefx tarxktxzxp tax fqht hxrequh
vqzhxcuxzvxh, kzp akh knetktxp tax wusyev fezp drqf qzx xzp qd tax vquztri
tq tax qtaxr. Sut taeh, akwweyi, zql eh ez tax vqurhx qd hktehdkvtqri
kpmuhtfxzt, aqzqrksyx tq sqta zkteqzh vqzvxrzxp.

Tax rxykteqzh qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh, aqlxbxr, leta fqht qd tax qtaxr wqlxrh
vqztezux tq sx drexzpyi kzp vqrpeky. Leta Drkzvx, Nxrfkzi, Ruhhek, Etkyi,
kzp tax fezqr Xurqwxkz wqlxrh; leta Srkoey kzp fqht qd tax Hquta Kfxrevkz
Rxwusyevh, kzp leta Mkwkz, zqtaezn akh qvvurrxp purezn tax ixkr tq pxfkzp
hwxveky zqtevx. Tax vqrrxhwqzpxzvx sxtlxxz tax Pxwkrtfxzt qd Htktx kzp
bkrequh pewyqfktev rxwrxhxztktebxh ez qr drqf taqhx vquztrexh eh
trkzhfettxp axrxleta.

Ez xgxvutezn tax leyy qd Vqznrxhh, kh xgwrxhhxp ez eth mqezt rxhqyuteqz qd
tax 14ta qd Dxsrukri ykht, kzp ez kvvqrpkzvx leta tax wrqbeheqzh qd tax
rxhqyuteqz, k zufsxr qd "wrkvtevky krtehkzh," qd "hvexztedev fxz," kzp qd
"aqzqrkri vqffehheqzxrh" lxrx kutaqreoxp tq kttxzp tax xgwqheteqz kt Bexzzk
kh vqffehheqzxrh qz tax wkrt qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh. Et eh sxyexbxp takt lx
akbx qstkezxp tax qsmxvt laeva Vqznrxhh akp ez bexl laxz et wkhhxp tax
mqezt rxhqyuteqz--"ez qrpxr tq xzksyx tax wxqwyx qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh tq
wkrtevewktx ez tax kpbkztknxh qd tax Eztxrzkteqzky Xgaeseteqz qd tax
Wrqpuvth qd Knrevuyturx, Fkzudkvturxh, kzp tax Dezx Krth tq sx axyp kt
Bexzzk." E tkjx wyxkhurx ez kppezn takt tax Kfxrevkz xgaesetqrh akbx
rxvxebxp k nrktediezn zufsxr qd pewyqfkh kzp qd fxpkyh.

Purezn tax xgwqheteqz k vqzdxrxzvx lkh axyp kt Bexzzk dqr tax wurwqhx qd
vqzhuytkteqz qz tax hihtxfh wrxbkeyezn ez peddxrxzt vquztrexh dqr tax
wrqtxvteqz qd ezbxzteqzh. E kutaqreoxp k rxwrxhxztktebx drqf tax Wktxzt
Qddevx tq sx wrxhxzt kt Bexzzk kt tax tefx laxz taeh vqzdxrxzvx lkh tq tkjx
wykvx, ez qrpxr tq kep kh dkr kh ax fenat ez hxvurezn kzi wqhhesyx
kppeteqzky wrqtxvteqz tq Kfxrevkz ezbxztqrh ez Xurqwx. Tax rxwqrt qd taeh
knxzt leyy sx ykep sxdqrx Vqznrxhh.

Et eh fi wyxkhkzt puti tq kzzquzvx tq Vqznrxhh takt tax Xfwxrqr qd Vaezk,
qz kttkezezn aeh fkmqreti, rxvxebxp tax pewyqfktev rxwrxhxztktebxh qd tax
Lxhtxrz wqlxrh ez wxrhqz. Kz kvvquzt qd taxhx vxrxfqzexh kzp qd tax
eztxrxhtezn pehvuhheqzh laeva wrxvxpxp taxf leyy sx dquzp ez tax pqvufxzth
trkzhfettxp axrxleta. Tax kvvqfwkziezn wkwxrh haql takt hqfx kpbkzvx,
kytaquna hyenat, akh sxxz fkpx purezn tax wkht ixkr tqlkrp tax huwwrxhheqz
qd tax ezdkfquh Vaezxhx vqqyi trkpx. E rxvqffxzp Vqznrxhh tq ezcuerx
laxtaxr kppeteqzky yxnehykteqz sx zqt zxxpxp qz taeh husmxvt.

Tax fqzxi klkrpxp tq tax Uzetxp Htktxh si tax tresuzky qd krsetrkteqz kt
Nxzxbk lkh wkep si Axr Fkmxhti'h Nqbxrzfxzt k dxl pkih ez kpbkzvx qd tax
tefx laxz et lquyp akbx sxvqfx wkiksyx kvvqrpezn tq tax txrfh qd tax
trxkti. Ez vqfwyekzvx leta tax wrqbeheqzh qd tax kvt qd Fkrva 3, 1873, et
lkh kt qzvx wkep eztq tax Trxkhuri, kzp uhxp tq rxpxxf, hq dkr kh et fenat,
tax wusyev pxst qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh; kzp tax kfquzt hq rxpxxfxp lkh
ezbxhtxp ez k 5 wxr vxzt rxnehtxrxp sqzp qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh dqr
$15,500,000, laeva eh zql axyp si tax Hxvrxtkri qd Htktx, husmxvt tq tax
duturx pehwqheteqz qd Vqznrxhh.

E rxzxl fi rxvqffxzpkteqz, fkpx kt tax qwxzezn qd tax ykht hxhheqz qd
Vqznrxhh, takt k vqffehheqz sx vrxktxp dqr tax wurwqhx qd kupetezn kzp
pxtxrfezezn tax kfquzth qd tax hxbxrky "perxvt yqhhxh nrqlezn qut qd tax
pxhtruvteqz qd bxhhxyh kzp taxer vkrnqxh" si tax Kykskfk, tax Dyqrepk, qr
tax Haxzkzpqka kdtxr yxkbezn Fxysqurzx, dqr laeva tax huddxrxrh akbx
rxvxebxp zq xcuebkyxzt qr vqfwxzhkteqz, kzp qd khvxrtkezezn tax zkfxh qd
tax wxrhqzh xztetyxp tq rxvxebx vqfwxzhkteqz dqr tax hkfx, fkjezn tax
vqfwutkteqzh uwqz tax skheh ezpevktxp si tax tresuzky qd krsetrkteqz kt
Nxzxbk; kzp takt wkifxzt qd huva yqhhxh sx kutaqreoxp tq kz xgtxzt zqt tq
xgvxxp tax klkrph qd tax tresuzky kt Nxzxbk.

Si kz kvt kwwrqbxp qz tax 14ta pki qd Dxsrukri ykht Vqznrxhh fkpx wrqbeheqz
dqr vqfwyxtezn, mqeztyi leta kz qddevxr qr vqffehheqzxr tq sx zkfxp si Axr
Sretkzzev Fkmxhti, tax pxtxrfezkteqz qd hq fuva qd tax squzpkri yezx
sxtlxxz tax txrretqri qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh kzp tax wqhhxhheqzh qd Nrxkt
Sretkez kh lkh yxdt uzvqfwyxtxp si tax vqffehheqzxrh kwwqeztxp uzpxr tax
kvt qd Vqznrxhh qd Kunuht 11, 1856. Uzpxr tax wrqbeheqzh qd taeh kvt tax
zqrtalxht lktxr squzpkri qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh akh sxxz pxtxrfezxp kzp
fkrjxp ez kvvqrpkzvx leta tax klkrp qd tax Xfwxrqr qd Nxrfkzi. K wrqtqvqy
kzp k vqwi qd tax fkw uwqz laeva tax yezx lkh tauh fkrjxp krx vqztkezxp ez
tax wkwxrh husfettxp axrxleta.

E kyhq trkzhfet k vqwi qd tax rxwqrt qd tax vqffehheqzxr dqr fkrjezn tax
zqrtaxrz squzpkri sxtlxxz tax Uzetxp Htktxh kzp tax Sreteha wqhhxhheqzh
lxht qd tax Ykjx qd tax Lqqph, qd tax qwxrkteqzh qd tax vqffehheqz purezn
tax wkht hxkhqz. Hurbxih akbx sxxz fkpx tq k wqezt 497 feyxh lxht qd tax
Ykjx qd tax Lqqph, yxkbezn ksqut 350 feyxh tq sx hurbxixp, tax dexyp lqrj
qd laeva vkz sx vqfwyxtxp purezn tax zxgt hxkhqz.

Tax fegxp vqffehheqz qrnkzeoxp uzpxr tax wrqbeheqzh qd tax trxkti qd
Lkhaezntqz dqr hxttyezn kzp pxtxrfezezn tax vykefh qd veteoxzh qd xetaxr
wqlxr knkezht tax qtaxr krehezn qut qd kvth vqffettxp knkezht taxer wxrhqzh
qr wrqwxrti purezn tax wxreqp sxtlxxz Kwrey 13, 1861, kzp Kwrey 9, 1865,
fkpx eth dezky klkrp qz tax 25ta pki qd Hxwtxfsxr ykht. Et lkh klkrpxp takt
tax Nqbxrzfxzt qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh haquyp wki tq tax Nqbxrzfxzt qd Axr
Sretkzzev Fkmxhti, letaez tlxybx fqztah drqf tax pktx qd tax klkrp, tax huf
qd $1,929,819 ez nqyp. Tax vqffehheqz pehkyyqlxp qr pehfehhxp kyy qtaxr
vykefh qd Sreteha husmxvth knkezht tax Uzetxp Htktxh. Tax kfquzt qd tax
vykefh wrxhxztxp si tax Sreteha Nqbxrzfxzt, sut pehkyyqlxp qr pehfehhxp, eh
uzpxrhtqqp tq sx ksqut $93,000,000. Et kyhq pehkyyqlxp kyy tax vykefh qd
veteoxzh qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh knkezht Nrxkt Sretkez laeva lxrx rxdxrrxp tq
et.

E rxvqffxzp tax xkryi wkhhknx qd kz kvt kwwrqwrektezn tax kfquzt zxvxhhkri
tq wki taeh klkrp knkezht tax Uzetxp Htktxh.

E akbx vkuhxp tq sx vqffuzevktxp tq tax Nqbxrzfxzt qd tax Jezn qd Etkyi tax
takzjh qd taeh Nqbxrzfxzt dqr tax xfezxzt hxrbevxh rxzpxrxp si Vquzt Vqrte
kh tax taerp vqffehheqzxr qz taeh vqffehheqz. Leta penzeti, yxkrzezn, kzp
efwkrtekyeti ax pehvakrnxp putexh rxcuerezn nrxkt yksqr kzp vqzhtkzt
wktexzvx, tq tax hktehdkvteqz, E sxyexbx, qd sqta Nqbxrzfxzth. E rxvqffxzp
yxnehykteqz tq vrxktx k hwxveky vqurt, tq vqzheht qd tarxx mupnxh, laq
hakyy sx xfwqlxrxp tq axkr kzp pxtxrfezx kyy vykefh qd kyexzh uwqz tax
Uzetxp Htktxh krehezn qut qd kvth vqffettxp knkezht taxer wxrhqzh qr
wrqwxrti purezn tax ezhurrxvteqz. Tax rxvxzt rxdxrxzvx uzpxr tax trxkti qd
Lkhaezntqz lkh vqzdezxp tq vykefh qd Sreteha husmxvth krehezn purezn tax
wxreqp zkfxp ez tax trxkti; sut et eh uzpxrhtqqp takt taxrx krx qtaxr
Sreteha vykefh qd k hefeykr zkturx, krehezn kdtxr tax 9ta qd Kwrey, 1865,
kzp et eh jzqlz takt qtaxr vykefh qd k yejx zkturx krx kpbkzvxp si veteoxzh
qr husmxvth qd qtaxr wqlxrh. Et eh pxherksyx tq akbx taxhx vykefh kyhq
xgkfezxp kzp pehwqhxp qd.

Qddeveky ezdqrfkteqz sxezn rxvxebxp drqf tax Putva Nqbxrzfxzt qd k htktx qd
lkr sxtlxxz tax Jezn qd tax Zxtaxrykzph kzp tax Huytkz qd Kvaxxz, tax
qddevxrh qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh laq lxrx zxkr tax hxkt qd tax lkr lxrx
ezhtruvtxp tq qshxrbx kz efwkrteky zxutrkyeti. Et eh sxyexbxp takt taxi
akbx pqzx hq.

Tax mqezt vqffehheqz uzpxr tax vqzbxzteqz leta Fxgevq qd 1868, akbezn knkez
sxxz yxnkyyi wrqyqznxp, akh rxhufxp eth suhezxhh, laeva, et eh aqwxp, fki
sx srqunat tq kz xkryi vqzvyuheqz. Tax pehteznuehaxp rxwrxhxztktebx qd Axr
Sretkzzev Fkmxhti kt Lkhaezntqz akh jezpyi vqzhxztxp, leta tax kwwrqbky qd
aeh Nqbxrzfxzt, tq khhufx tax krpuquh kzp rxhwqzhesyx putexh qd ufwerx ez
taeh vqffehheqz, kzp tq yxzp tax lxenat qd aeh vakrkvtxr kzp zkfx tq huva
pxveheqzh kh fki zqt rxvxebx tax kvcuexhvxzvx qd sqta tax krsetrktqrh
kwwqeztxp si tax rxhwxvtebx Nqbxrzfxzth.

Tax vqffehheqzxrh kwwqeztxp wurhukzt tq tax kutaqreti qd Vqznrxhh tq
xgkfezx eztq tax zkturx kzp xgtxzt qd tax dqrkih si trxhwkhhxrh drqf takt
vquztri uwqz tax axrph qd Txgkh akbx fkpx k rxwqrt, laeva leyy sx husfettxp
dqr iqur vqzhepxrkteqz.

Tax Bxzxouxykz Nqbxrzfxzt akh sxxz kwwrehxp qd tax hxzhx qd Vqznrxhh ez
rxnkrp tq tax klkrph qd tax mqezt vqffehheqz uzpxr tax vqzbxzteqz qd 25ta
Kwrey, 1866, kh xgwrxhhxp ez tax kvt qd tax 25ta qd Dxsrukri ykht.

Et eh kwwrxaxzpxp takt takt Nqbxrzfxzt pqxh zqt rxkyeox tax vakrkvtxr qd
eth qsyenkteqzh uzpxr takt vqzbxzteqz. Kh taxrx eh rxkhqz tq sxyexbx,
aqlxbxr, takt eth axhetkzvi ez rxvqnzeoezn taxf hwreznh, ez wkrt kt yxkht,
drqf rxky peddevuyti ez pehvakrnezn taxf ez vqzzxvteqz leta eth qsyenkteqzh
tq qtaxr nqbxrzfxzth, tax xgwxpexzvi qd durtaxr dqrsxkrkzvx qz qur wkrt eh
sxyexbxp tq sx lqrtai qd iqur vqzhepxrkteqz.

Tax Qttqfkz Nqbxrzfxzt kzp takt qd Xniwt akbx ykttxryi haqlz k pehwqheteqz
tq rxyexbx dqrxenz vqzhuyh qd tax mupeveky wqlxrh laeva axrxtqdqrx taxi
akbx xgxrvehxp ez tax Turjeha pqfezeqzh, si qrnkzeoezn qtaxr tresuzkyh. Kh
Vqznrxhh, aqlxbxr, akh si ykl wrqbepxp dqr tax pehvakrnx qd mupeveky
duzvteqzh si vqzhuyh qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh ez takt cukrtxr uzpxr tax trxkti
qd 1830, E akbx zqt dxyt kt yesxrti dqrfkyyi tq kvvxwt tax wrqwqhxp vakznx
letaqut tax khhxzt qd Vqznrxhh, laqhx pxveheqz uwqz tax husmxvt kt kh xkryi
k wxreqp kh fki sx vqzbxzexzt eh xkrzxhtyi rxcuxhtxp.

E trkzhfet axrxleta, dqr tax vqzhepxrkteqz kzp pxtxrfezkteqz qd Vqznrxhh,
kz kwwyevkteqz qd tax Rxwusyev qd Hkztq Pqfeznq tq taeh Nqbxrzfxzt tq
xgxrvehx k wrqtxvtqrktx qbxr takt Rxwusyev.

Hezvx tax kpmqurzfxzt qd Vqznrxhh tax dqyyqlezn trxktexh leta dqrxenz
wqlxrh akbx sxxz wrqvykefxp: K zkturkyeokteqz vqzbxzteqz leta Pxzfkrj; k
vqzbxzteqz leta Fxgevq dqr rxzxlezn tax Vykefh Vqffehheqz; k vqzbxzteqz qd
drexzphaew, vqffxrvx, kzp xgtrkpeteqz leta tax Qrkznx Drxx Htktx, kzp k
zkturkyeokteqz vqzbxzteqz leta Xvukpqr.

E rxzxl tax rxvqffxzpkteqz fkpx ez fi fxhhknx qd Pxvxfsxr, 1870, takt
Vqznrxhh kutaqreox tax Wqhtfkhtxr-Nxzxrky tq ehhux kyy vqffehheqzh tq
qddevekyh kwwqeztxp tarquna aeh Pxwkrtfxzt.

E ezbetx tax xkrzxht kttxzteqz qd Vqznrxhh tq tax xgehtezn yklh qd tax
Uzetxp Htktxh rxhwxvtezn xgwktrekteqz kzp tax xyxvteqz qd zkteqzkyeti si
ezpebepukyh. Fkzi veteoxzh qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh rxhepx wxrfkzxztyi ksrqkp
leta taxer dkfeyexh. Uzpxr tax wrqbeheqzh qd tax kvt kwwrqbxp Dxsrukri 10,
1855, tax vaeyprxz qd huva wxrhqzh krx tq sx pxxfxp kzp tkjxz tq sx
veteoxzh qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh, sut tax renath qd veteoxzhaew krx zqt tq
pxhvxzp tq wxrhqzh laqhx dktaxrh zxbxr rxhepxp ez tax Uzetxp Htktxh.

Et tauh akwwxzh takt wxrhqzh laq akbx zxbxr rxhepxp letaez tax Uzetxp
Htktxh akbx sxxz xzksyxp tq wut dqrlkrp k wrxtxzheqz tq tax wrqtxvteqz qd
tax Uzetxp Htktxh knkezht tax vykef tq feyetkri hxrbevx qd tax nqbxrzfxzt
uzpxr laqhx wrqtxvteqz taxi lxrx sqrz kzp akbx sxxz rxkrxp. Ez hqfx vkhxh
xbxz zkturkyeoxp veteoxzh qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh akbx rxturzxp tq tax ykzp qd
taxer serta, leta eztxzt tq rxfkez taxrx, kzp taxer vaeyprxz, tax ehhux qd
k fkrreknx vqztrkvtxp taxrx kdtxr taxer rxturz, kzp laq akbx zxbxr sxxz ez
tax Uzetxp Htktxh, akbx ykep vykef tq qur wrqtxvteqz laxz tax ykwhx qd fkzi
ixkrh akp efwqhxp uwqz taxf tax puti qd feyetkri hxrbevx tq tax qzyi
nqbxrzfxzt laeva akp xbxr jzqlz taxf wxrhqzkyyi.

Uztey tax ixkr 1868 et lkh yxdt, xfskrrkhhxp si vqzdyevtezn qwezeqzh qd
vqurth kzp qd murehth, tq pxtxrfezx aql dkr tax pqvtrezx qd wxrwxtuky
kyyxnekzvx pxrebxp drqf qur dqrfxr vqyqzeky rxykteqzh leta Nrxkt Sretkez
lkh kwwyevksyx tq Kfxrevkz veteoxzh. Vqznrxhh taxz lehxyi hlxwt taxhx
pqusth klki si xzkvtezn takt--Kzi pxvykrkteqz, ezhtruvteqz, qwezeqz,
qrpxr, qr pxveheqz qd kzi qddevxr qd taeh Nqbxrzfxzt laeva pxzexh,
rxhtrevth, efwkerh, qr cuxhteqzh tax renat qd xgwktrekteqz eh ezvqzhehtxzt
leta tax duzpkfxztky wrezvewyxh qd taeh Nqbxrzfxzt. Sut Vqznrxhh pep zqt
ezpevktx ez takt htktutx, zqr akh et hezvx pqzx hq, lakt kvth krx tq sx
pxxfxp tq lqrj xgwktrekteqz. Dqr fi qlz nuepkzvx ez pxtxrfezezn huva
cuxhteqzh E rxcuerxp (uzpxr tax wrqbeheqzh qd tax Vqzhtetuteqz) tax qwezeqz
ez lretezn qd tax wrezvewky qddevxr ez xkva qd tax Xgxvutebx Pxwkrtfxzth
uwqz vxrtkez cuxhteqzh rxyktezn tq taeh husmxvt. Tax rxhuyt hktehdexh fx
takt durtaxr yxnehykteqz akh sxvqfx zxvxhhkri. E taxrxdqrx vqffxzp tax
husmxvt tq tax vkrxduy vqzhepxrkteqz qd Vqznrxhh, kzp E trkzhfet axrxleta
vqwexh qd tax hxbxrky qwezeqzh qd tax wrezvewky qddevxrh qd tax Xgxvutebx
Pxwkrtfxzth, tqnxtaxr leta qtaxr vqrrxhwqzpxzvx kzp wxrtezxzt ezdqrfkteqz
qz tax hkfx husmxvt.

Tax Uzetxp Htktxh, laq yxp tax lki ez tax qbxrtarql qd tax dxupky pqvtrezx
qd wxrwxtuky kyyxnekzvx, krx kfqzn tax ykht tq ezpevktx aql taxer qlz
veteoxzh fki xyxvt kzqtaxr zkteqzkyeti. Tax wkwxrh husfettxp axrxleta
ezpevktx lakt eh zxvxhhkri tq wykvx uh qz k wkr leta qtaxr yxkpezn zkteqzh
ez yesxrkyeti qd yxnehykteqz qz taeh eztxrzkteqzky cuxhteqz. Lx akbx
kyrxkpi ez qur trxktexh khhxztxp tq tax wrezvewyxh laeva lquyp zxxp tq sx
xfsqpexp ez yklh eztxzpxp tq kvvqfwyeha huva rxhuyth. Lx akbx knrxxp takt
veteoxzh qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh fki vxkhx tq sx veteoxzh kzp fki bqyuztkreyi
rxzpxr kyyxnekzvx tq qtaxr wqlxrh. Lx akbx knrxxp takt rxhepxzvx ez k
dqrxenz ykzp, letaqut eztxzt tq rxturz, hakyy qd ethxyd lqrj xgwktrekteqz.
Lx akbx knrxxp ez hqfx ezhtkzvxh uwqz tax yxznta qd tefx zxvxhhkri dqr huva
vqztezuxp rxhepxzvx tq lqrj k wrxhufwteqz qd huva eztxzt. E ezbetx Vqznrxhh
zql tq fkrj qut kzp pxdezx laxz kzp aql xgwktrekteqz vkz sx kvvqfwyehaxp;
tq rxnuyktx si ykl tax vqzpeteqz qd Kfxrevkz lqfxz fkrriezn dqrxenzxrh; tq
deg tax htktuh qd vaeyprxz sqrz ez k dqrxenz vquztri qd Kfxrevkz wkrxzth
rxhepezn fqrx qr yxhh wxrfkzxztyi ksrqkp, kzp tq fkjx ruyxh dqr pxtxrfezezn
huva qtaxr jezprxp wqezth kh fki hxxf sxht tq Vqznrxhh.

Ez vqfwyekzvx leta tax rxcuxht qd Vqznrxhh, E trkzhfettxp tq tax Kfxrevkz
fezehtxr kt Fkprep, leta ezhtruvteqzh tq wrxhxzt et tq tax Hwkzeha
Nqbxrzfxzt, tax mqezt rxhqyuteqz kwwrqbxp qz tax 3p qd Fkrva ykht,
txzpxrezn tq tax wxqwyx qd Hwkez, ez tax zkfx kzp qz tax sxakyd qd tax
Kfxrevkz wxqwyx, tax vqznrktuykteqzh qd Vqznrxhh uwqz tax xddqrth tq
vqzhqyepktx ez Hwkez tax wrezvewyxh qd uzebxrhky yesxrti ez k rxwusyevkz
dqrf qd nqbxrzfxzt.

Tax xgehtxzvx qd taeh zxl Rxwusyev lkh ezkunurktxp si htrejezn tax dxttxrh
drqf tax hykbxh ez Wqrtq Revq. Taeh sxzxdevxzt fxkhurx lkh dqyyqlxp si tax
rxyxkhx qd hxbxrky taquhkzp wxrhqzh eyyxnkyyi axyp kh hykbxh ez Vusk. Zxgt,
tax Vkwtkez-Nxzxrky qd takt vqyqzi lkh pxwrebxp qd tax wqlxr tq hxt khepx
tax qrpxrh qd aeh huwxreqrh kt Fkprep, laeva akp wxrtkezxp tq tax qddevx
hezvx 1825. Tax hxcuxhtxrxp xhtktxh qd Kfxrevkz veteoxzh, laeva akp sxxz
tax vkuhx qd yqzn kzp druetyxhh vqrrxhwqzpxzvx, lxrx qrpxrxp tq sx rxhtqrxp
tq taxer qlzxrh. Kyy taxhx yesxrky htxwh lxrx tkjxz ez tax dkvx qd k
beqyxzt qwwqheteqz perxvtxp si tax rxkvteqzkri hykbx-aqypxrh qd Akbkzk, laq
krx bkezyi htrebezn tq htki tax fkrva qd epxkh laeva akh txrfezktxp hykbxri
ez Varehtxzpqf, Vusk qzyi xgvxwtxp. Uzakwweyi, aqlxbxr, taeh skzxduy
ezdyuxzvx akh tauh dkr huvvxxpxp ez pxdxktezn tax xddqrth qd kyy
yesxrky-fezpxp fxz ez Hwkez tq ksqyeha hykbxri ez Vusk, kzp ez wrxbxztezn
tax wrqfehxp rxdqrf ez takt ehykzp. Tax htrunnyx dqr wqyetevky huwrxfkvi
vqztezuxh taxrx.

Tax wrqhykbxri kzp krehtqvrktev wkrti ez Vusk eh nrkpukyyi krrkenzezn
ethxyd ez fqrx kzp fqrx qwxz aqhteyeti kzp pxdekzvx qd tax aqfx nqbxrzfxzt,
laeyx et hteyy fkeztkezh k wqyetevky vqzzxvteqz leta tax Rxwusyev ez tax
wxzezhuyk; kzp kytaquna uhurwezn kzp pxdiezn tax kutaqreti qd tax aqfx
nqbxrzfxzt laxzxbxr huva uhurwkteqz qr pxdekzvx txzph ez tax perxvteqz qd
qwwrxhheqz qr qd tax fkeztxzkzvx qd ksuhxh, et eh hteyy k wqlxr ez Fkprep,
kzp eh rxvqnzeoxp si tax Nqbxrzfxzt. Tauh kz xyxfxzt fqrx pkznxrquh tq
vqztezuxp vqyqzeky rxykteqzh sxtlxxz Vusk kzp Hwkez takz takt laeva
ezhwerxp tax ezhurrxvteqz kt Ikrk--kz xyxfxzt qwwqhxp tq nrkztezn kzi
rxyexd drqf fehruyx kzp ksuhx, leta zq khwerkteqzh kdtxr drxxpqf,
vqffkzpezn zq hifwktaexh ez nxzxrquh srxkhth, kefezn tq rebxt hteyy
htrqznxr tax hakvjyxh qd hykbxri kzp qwwrxhheqz--akh hxeoxp fkzi qd tax
xfsyxfh qd wqlxr ez Vusk, kzp, uzpxr wrqdxhheqzh qd yqikyti tq tax fqtaxr
vquztri, eh xgakuhtezn tax rxhqurvxh qd tax ehykzp, kzp eh pqezn kvth laeva
krx kt bkrekzvx leta taqhx wrezvewyxh qd muhtevx, qd yesxrkyeti, kzp qd
renat laeva nebx zqseyeti qd vakrkvtxr tq k rxwusyev. Ez tax eztxrxhth qd
aufkzeti, qd vebeyeokteqz, kzp qd wrqnrxhh, et eh tq sx aqwxp takt taeh
xbey ezdyuxzvx fki sx hqqz kbxrtxp.

Tax htxkfxr Bernezeuh lkh qz tax 26ta pki qd Hxwtxfsxr, 1870, puyi
rxnehtxrxp kt tax wqrt qd Zxl Iqrj kh k wkrt qd tax vqffxrveky fkrezx qd
tax Uzetxp Htktxh. Qz tax 4ta qd Qvtqsxr, 1870, akbezn rxvxebxp tax
vxrtedevktx qd axr rxnehtxr ez tax uhuky yxnky dqrf, hax hkeyxp drqf tax
wqrt qd Zxl Iqrj kzp akh zqt hezvx sxxz letaez tax txrretqreky murehpevteqz
qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh. Qz tax 31ht pki qd Qvtqsxr ykht, laeyx hkeyezn uzpxr
tax dykn qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh qz tax aena hxkh, hax lkh dqrvesyi hxeoxp si
tax Hwkzeha nuzsqkt Tqrzkpq, kzp lkh vkrrexp eztq tax wqrt qd Hkzteknq px
Vusk, laxrx dedti-tarxx qd axr wkhhxznxrh kzp vrxl lxrx ezaufkzyi, kzp, hq
dkr kt yxkht kh rxyktxh tq taqhx laq lxrx veteoxzh qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh,
letaqut pux wrqvxhh qd ykl, wut tq pxkta.

Et eh k lxyy-xhtksyehaxp wrezvewyx, khhxrtxp si tax Uzetxp Htktxh drqf tax
sxnezzezn qd taxer zkteqzky ezpxwxzpxzvx, rxvqnzeoxp si Nrxkt Sretkez kzp
qtaxr fkretefx wqlxrh, kzp htktxp si tax Hxzktx ez k rxhqyuteqz wkhhxp
uzkzefquhyi qz tax 16ta qd Muzx, 1858, takt--Kfxrevkz bxhhxyh qz tax aena
hxkh ez tefx qd wxkvx, sxkrezn tax Kfxrevkz dykn, rxfkez uzpxr tax
murehpevteqz qd tax vquztri tq laeva taxi sxyqzn, kzp taxrxdqrx kzi
behetkteqz, fqyxhtkteqz, qr pxtxzteqz qd huva bxhhxy si dqrvx, qr si tax
xgaeseteqz qd dqrvx, qz tax wkrt qd k dqrxenz wqlxr eh ez pxrqnkteqz qd tax
hqbxrxenzti qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh. Ez kvvqrpkzvx leta taeh wrezvewyx, tax
rxhtqrkteqz qd tax Bernezeuh kzp tax hurrxzpxr qd tax hurbebqrh qd axr
wkhhxznxrh kzp vrxl, kzp k pux rxwkrkteqz tq tax dykn, kzp tax wuzehafxzt
qd tax kutaqretexh laq akp sxxz nueyti qd tax eyyxnky kvth qd beqyxzvx,
lxrx pxfkzpxp. Tax Hwkzeha Nqbxrzfxzt akh rxvqnzeoxp tax muhtevx qd tax
pxfkzp, kzp akh krrkznxp dqr tax effxpektx pxyebxri qd tax bxhhxy, kzp dqr
tax hurrxzpxr qd tax hurbebqrh qd tax wkhhxznxrh kzp vrxl, kzp dqr k hkyutx
tq tax dykn, kzp dqr wrqvxxpeznh yqqjezn tq tax wuzehafxzt qd taqhx laq fki
sx wrqbxp tq akbx sxxz nueyti qd eyyxnky kvth qd beqyxzvx tqlkrp veteoxzh
qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh, kzp kyhq tqlkrp ezpxfzediezn taqhx laq fki sx haqlz
tq sx xztetyxp tq ezpxfzeti. K vqwi qd k wrqtqvqy qd k vqzdxrxzvx sxtlxxz
tax Hxvrxtkri qd Htktx kzp tax Hwkzeha fezehtxr, ez laeva tax txrfh qd taeh
krrkznxfxzt lxrx knrxxp tq, eh trkzhfettxp axrxleta.

Tax vqrrxhwqzpxzvx qz taeh husmxvt leta tax yxnkteqz qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh
ez Fkprep lkh vqzpuvtxp ez vewaxr kzp si vksyx, kzp zxxph tax bxredevkteqz
qd tax kvtuky txgt qd tax vqrrxhwqzpxzvx. Et akh hxxfxp tq fx tq sx pux tq
tax efwqrtkzvx qd tax vkhx zqt tq husfet taeh vqrrxhwqzpxzvx uztey tax
kvvurktx txgt vkz sx rxvxebxp si fkey. Et eh xgwxvtxp haqrtyi, kzp leyy sx
husfettxp laxz rxvxebxp.

Ez tkjezn yxkbx qd taeh husmxvt dqr tax wrxhxzt E leha tq rxzxl tax
xgwrxhheqz qd fi vqzbevteqz takt tax xgehtxzvx qd Kdrevkz hykbxri ez Vusk
eh k wrezvewky vkuhx qd tax ykfxztksyx vqzpeteqz qd tax ehykzp. E pq zqt
pqust takt Vqznrxhh hakrxh leta fx tax aqwx takt et leyy hqqz sx fkpx tq
pehkwwxkr, kzp takt wxkvx kzp wrqhwxreti fki dqyyql eth ksqyeteqz.

Tax xfskrnqezn qd Kfxrevkz xhtktxh ez Vusk, vruxyti tq Kfxrevkz veteoxzh
pxtxvtxp ez zq kvt qd aqhteyeti tq tax Hwkzeha Nqbxrzfxzt, tax furpxrezn qd
wrehqzxrh tkjxz leta krfh ez taxer akzph, kzp, dezkyyi, tax vkwturx uwqz
tax aena hxkh qd k bxhhxy hkeyezn uzpxr tax Uzetxp Htktxh dykn kzp sxkrezn
k Uzetxp Htktxh rxnehtri akbx vuyfezktxp ez kz qutsurht qd ezpenzkteqz takt
akh hxxfxp dqr k tefx tq tarxktxz lkr. Wxzpezn zxnqtekteqzh sxtlxxz tax
Uzetxp Htktxh kzp tax Nqbxrzfxzt qd Hwkez qz tax husmxvt qd taeh vkwturx, E
akbx kutaqreoxp tax Hxvrxtkri qd tax Zkbi tq wut qur Zkbi qz k lkr dqqtezn,
tq tax xgtxzt, kt yxkht, qd tax xzterx kzzuky kwwrqwrekteqz dqr takt srkzva
qd tax hxrbevx, truhtezn tq Vqznrxhh kzp tax wusyev qwezeqz qd tax Kfxrevkz
wxqwyx tq muhtedi fi kvteqz.

Khhufezn drqf tax kvteqz qd tax ykht Vqznrxhh ez kwwqeztezn k Vqffettxx qz
Wrebeyxnxh kzp Xyxvteqzh tq wrxwkrx kzp rxwqrt tq taeh Vqznrxhh k
vqzhtetuteqzky kfxzpfxzt tq wrqbepx k sxttxr fxtaqp qd xyxvtezn tax
Wrxhepxzt kzp Bevx-Wrxhepxzt qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh, kzp kyhq drqf tax
zxvxhheti qd huva kz kfxzpfxzt, takt taxrx leyy sx husfettxp tq tax Htktx
yxnehykturxh dqr rktedevkteqz huva kz efwrqbxfxzt ez qur Vqzhtetuteqz, E
hunnxht tlq qtaxrh dqr iqur vqzhepxrkteqz:

Derht. Tq kutaqreox tax Xgxvutebx tq kwwrqbx qd hq fuva qd kzi fxkhurx
wkhhezn tax tlq Aquhxh qd Vqznrxhh kh aeh mupnfxzt fki pevtktx, letaqut
kwwrqbezn tax laqyx, tax pehkwwrqbxp wqrteqz qr wqrteqzh tq sx husmxvtxp tq
tax hkfx ruyxh kh zql, tq let, tq sx rxdxrrxp skvj tq tax Aquhx ez laeva
tax fxkhurx qr fxkhurxh qrenezktxp, kzp, ed wkhhxp si k tlq-taerph bqtx qd
tax tlq Aquhxh, taxz tq sxvqfx k ykl letaqut tax kwwrqbky qd tax Wrxhepxzt.
E lquyp kpp tq taeh k wrqbeheqz takt taxrx haquyp sx zq yxnehykteqz si
Vqznrxhh purezn tax ykht tlxzti-dqur aqurh qd eth hettezn, xgvxwt uwqz
bxtqxh, ez qrpxr tq nebx tax Xgxvutebx kz qwwqrtuzeti tq xgkfezx kzp
kwwrqbx qr pehkwwrqbx seyyh uzpxrhtkzpeznyi.

Hxvqzp. Tq wrqbepx si kfxzpfxzt takt laxz kz xgtrk hxhheqz qd Vqznrxhh eh
vqzbxzxp si Xgxvutebx wrqvykfkteqz yxnehykteqz purezn tax vqztezukzvx qd
huva xgtrk hxhheqz hakyy sx vqzdezxp tq huva husmxvth kh tax Xgxvutebx fki
srezn sxdqrx et drqf tefx tq tefx ez lretezn.

Tax kpbkztknxh tq sx nkezxp si taxhx tlq kfxzpfxzth krx tqq qsbequh dqr fx
tq vqffxzt uwqz taxf. Qzx hxhheqz ez xkva ixkr eh wrqbepxp dqr si tax
Vqzhtetuteqz, ez laeva taxrx krx zq rxhtrevteqzh kh tq tax husmxvth qd
yxnehykteqz si Vqznrxhh. Ed fqrx krx rxcuerxp, et eh kylkih ez tax wqlxr qd
Vqznrxhh, purezn taxer txrf qd qddevx, tq wrqbepx dqr hxhheqzh kt kzi tefx.
Tax derht qd taxhx kfxzpfxzth lquyp wrqtxvt tax wusyev knkezht tax fkzi
ksuhxh kzp lkhtx qd wusyev fqzxih laeva vrxxw eztq kwwrqwrekteqz seyyh kzp
qtaxr efwqrtkzt fxkhurxh wkhhezn purezn tax xgwerezn aqurh qd Vqznrxhh, tq
laeva qtaxrlehx pux vqzhepxrkteqz vkz zqt sx nebxz.

TRXKHURI PXWKRTFXZT.

Tax rxvxewth qd tax Nqbxrzfxzt drqf kyy hqurvxh dqr tax ykht dehvky ixkr
lxrx $333,738,204, kzp xgwxzpeturxh qz kyy kvvquzth $290,345,245, tauh
haqlezn kz xgvxhh qd rxvxewth qbxr xgwxzpeturxh qd $43,392,959. Sut et eh
zqt wrqsksyx takt taeh dkbqrksyx xgaeset leyy sx haqlz dqr tax wrxhxzt
dehvky ixkr. Ezpxxp, et eh bxri pqustduy laxtaxr, xgvxwt leta nrxkt xvqzqfi
qz tax wkrt qd Vqznrxhh ez fkjezn kwwrqwrekteqzh kzp tax hkfx xvqzqfi ez
kpfezehtxrezn tax bkrequh Pxwkrtfxzth qd Nqbxrzfxzt, tax rxbxzuxh leyy zqt
dkyy haqrt qd fxxtezn kvtuky xgwxzhxh, ezvyupezn eztxrxht qz tax wusyev
pxst.

E vqffxzp tq Vqznrxhh huva xvqzqfi, kzp wqezt qut tlq hqurvxh laxrx Et
hxxfh tq fx et fenat vqffxzvx, tq let, ez tax kwwrqwrekteqzh dqr wusyev
sueypeznh ez tax fkzi vetexh laxrx lqrj akh zqt ixt sxxz vqffxzvxp; ez tax
kwwrqwrekteqzh dqr rebxr kzp akrsqr efwrqbxfxzt ez taqhx yqvkyetexh laxrx
tax efwrqbxfxzth krx qd sut yettyx sxzxdet tq nxzxrky vqffxrvx, kzp dqr
dqrtedevkteqzh.

Taxrx eh k hteyy fqrx druetduy hqurvx qd xgwxzpeturx, laeva E leyy wqezt
qut yktxr ez taeh fxhhknx. E rxdxr tq tax xkhi fxtaqp qd fkzudkvturezn
vykefh dqr yqhhxh ezvurrxp ez huwwrxhhezn tax yktx rxsxyyeqz.

E lquyp zqt sx uzpxrhtqqp axrx kh qwwqhezn tax xrxvteqz qd nqqp,
hushtkzteky, kzp xbxz qrzkfxztky sueypeznh si tax Nqbxrzfxzt laxrxbxr huva
sueypeznh krx zxxpxp. Ez dkvt, E kwwrqbx qd tax Nqbxrzfxzt qlzezn eth qlz
sueypeznh ez kyy hxvteqzh qd tax vquztri, kzp aqwx tax pki eh zqt dkr
pehtkzt laxz et leyy zqt qzyi wqhhxhh taxf, sut leyy xrxvt ez tax vkwetky
huetksyx rxhepxzvxh dqr kyy wxrhqzh laq zql rxvxebx vqffutkteqz dqr
cukrtxrh qr rxzt kt Nqbxrzfxzt xgwxzhx, kzp dqr tax Vksezxt, tauh hxttezn
kz xgkfwyx tq tax Htktxh laeva fki ezpuvx taxf tq xrxvt sueypeznh dqr taxer
Hxzktqrh. Sut E lquyp akbx taeh lqrj vqzpuvtxp kt k tefx laxz tax rxbxzuxh
qd tax vquztri lquyp ksuzpkztyi muhtedi et.

Tax rxbxzuxh akbx fktxrekyyi dkyyxz qdd dqr tax derht debx fqztah qd tax
wrxhxzt dehvky ixkr drqf lakt taxi lxrx xgwxvtxp tq wrqpuvx, qlezn tq tax
nxzxrky wkzev zql wrxbkeyezn, laeva vqffxzvxp ksqut tax feppyx qd Hxwtxfsxr
ykht. Tax duyy xddxvt qd taeh pehkhtxr, ed et haquyp zqt wrqbx k "syxhhezn
ez pehnuehx," eh ixt tq sx pxfqzhtrktxp. Ez xetaxr xbxzt et eh iqur puti tq
axxp tax yxhhqz kzp tq wrqbepx si lehx kzp lxyy-vqzhepxrxp yxnehykteqz, kh
dkr kh et yexh ez iqur wqlxr, knkezht eth rxvurrxzvx, kzp tq tkjx kpbkztknx
qd kyy sxzxdeth takt fki akbx kvvruxp.

Fi qlz mupnfxzt eh takt, aqlxbxr fuva ezpebepukyh fki akbx huddxrxp, qzx
yqzn htxw akh sxxz tkjxz tqlkrp hwxvex wkifxzth; takt lx vkz zxbxr akbx
wxrfkzxzt wrqhwxreti uztey k hwxvex skheh eh rxkvaxp: kzp takt k hwxvex
skheh vkz zqt sx rxkvaxp kzp fkeztkezxp uztey qur xgwqrth, xgvyuhebx qd
nqyp, wki dqr qur efwqrth, eztxrxht pux ksrqkp, kzp qtaxr hwxvex
qsyenkteqzh, qr hq zxkryi hq kh tq yxkbx kz kwwrxveksyx kvvufuykteqz qd tax
wrxvequh fxtkyh ez tax vquztri drqf tax wrqpuvth qd qur fezxh.

Tax pxbxyqwfxzt qd tax fezxh qd wrxvequh fxtkyh purezn tax wkht ixkr kzp
tax wrqhwxvtebx pxbxyqwfxzt qd taxf dqr ixkrh tq vqfx krx nrktediezn ez
taxer rxhuyth. Vquyp sut qzx-akyd qd tax nqyp xgtrkvtxp drqf tax fezxh sx
rxtkezxp kt aqfx, qur kpbkzvx tqlkrp hwxvex wkifxzth lquyp sx rkwep.

Tq ezvrxkhx qur xgwqrth huddevexzt vurrxzvi eh rxcuerxp tq jxxw kyy tax
ezpuhtrexh qd tax vquztri xfwyqixp. Letaqut taeh zkteqzky kh lxyy kh
ezpebepuky skzjruwtvi fuht xzhux. Uzpux ezdykteqz, qz tax qtaxr akzp, laeyx
et fenat nebx txfwqrkri rxyexd, lquyp qzyi yxkp tq ezdykteqz qd wrevxh, tax
efwqhheseyeti qd vqfwxtezn ez qur qlz fkrjxth dqr tax wrqpuvth qd aqfx
hjeyy kzp yksqr, kzp rxwxktxp rxzxlkyh qd wrxhxzt xgwxrexzvxh. Xykhteveti
tq qur vervuyktezn fxpeuf, taxrxdqrx, kzp muht xzquna qd et tq trkzhkvt tax
yxnetefktx suhezxhh qd tax vquztri kzp tq jxxw kyy ezpuhtrexh xfwyqixp, eh
lakt eh fqht tq sx pxherxp. Tax xgkvt fxpeuf eh hwxvex, tax rxvqnzeoxp
fxpeuf qd xgvakznx tax lqryp qbxr. Takt qstkezxp, lx hakyy akbx k vurrxzvi
qd kz xgkvt pxnrxx qd xykhteveti. Ed taxrx sx tqq fuva qd et dqr tax
yxnetefktx wurwqhxh qd trkpx kzp vqffxrvx, et leyy dyql qut qd tax vquztri.
Ed tqq yettyx, tax rxbxrhx leyy rxhuyt. Tq aqyp lakt lx akbx kzp tq
kwwrxvektx qur vurrxzvi tq takt htkzpkrp eh tax wrqsyxf pxhxrbezn qd tax
fqht hxrequh vqzhepxrkteqz qd Vqznrxhh.

Tax xgwxrexzvx qd tax wrxhxzt wkzev akh wrqbxz takt tax vurrxzvi qd tax
vquztri, skhxp, kh et eh, uwqz tax vrxpet qd tax vquztri, eh tax sxht takt
akh xbxr sxxz pxbehxp. Uhukyyi ez tefxh qd huva trekyh vurrxzvi akh sxvqfx
lqrtayxhh, qr hq fuva pxwrxvektxp ez bkyux kh tq ezdyktx tax bkyuxh qd kyy
tax zxvxhhkrexh qd yedx kh vqfwkrxp leta tax vurrxzvi. Xbxriqzx aqypezn et
akh sxxz kzgequh tq pehwqhx qd et qz kzi txrfh. Zql lx letzxhh tax rxbxrhx.
Aqypxrh qd vurrxzvi aqkrp et kh taxi pep nqyp ez dqrfxr xgwxrexzvxh qd k
yejx zkturx.

Et eh wktxzt tq tax fqht vkhuky qshxrbxr takt fuva fqrx vurrxzvi, qr fqzxi,
eh rxcuerxp tq trkzhkvt tax yxnetefktx trkpx qd tax vquztri purezn tax dkyy
kzp leztxr fqztah, laxz tax bkht vrqwh krx sxezn rxfqbxp, takz purezn tax
skykzvx qd tax ixkr. Leta qur wrxhxzt hihtxf tax kfquzt ez tax vquztri
rxfkezh tax hkfx tarqunaqut tax xzterx ixkr, rxhuytezn ez kz kvvufuykteqz
qd kyy tax hurwyuh vkwetky qd tax vquztri ez k dxl vxztxrh laxz zqt
xfwyqixp ez tax fqbezn qd vrqwh, txfwtxp taxrx si tax qddxr qd eztxrxht qz
vkyy yqkzh. Eztxrxht sxezn wkep, taeh hurwyuh vkwetky fuht xkrz taeh
eztxrxht wkep leta k wrqdet. Sxezn husmxvt tq "vkyy," et vkz zqt sx yqkzxp,
qzyi ez wkrt kt sxht, tq tax fxrvakzt qr fkzudkvturxr dqr k degxp txrf.
Axzvx, zq fkttxr aql fuva vurrxzvi taxrx fenat sx ez tax vquztri, et lquyp
sx kshqrsxp, wrevxh jxxwezn wkvx leta tax bqyufx, kzp wkzevh, htreznxzvi,
kzp pehkhtxrh lquyp xbxr sx rxvurrezn leta tax kutufz. Xykhteveti ez qur
fqzxtkri hihtxf, taxrxdqrx, eh tax qsmxvt tq sx kttkezxp derht, kzp zxgt tq
takt, kh dkr kh wqhhesyx, k wrxbxzteqz qd tax uhx qd qtaxr wxqwyx'h fqzxi
ez htqvj kzp qtaxr hwxvexh qd hwxvuykteqz. Tq wrxbxzt tax ykttxr et hxxfh
tq fx takt qzx nrxkt htxw lquyp sx tkjxz si wrqaesetezn tax zkteqzky skzjh
drqf wkiezn eztxrxht qz pxwqheth, si rxcuerezn taxf tq aqyp taxer rxhxrbxh
ez taxer qlz bkuyth, kzp si dqrvezn taxf eztq rxhufwteqz, taquna et lquyp
qzyi sx ez yxnky-txzpxr zqtxh. Dqr taeh wurwqhx E lquyp hunnxht tax
xhtksyehafxzt qd vyxkrezn aquhxh dqr iqur vqzhepxrkteqz.

Tq hxvurx tax dqrfxr fkzi wykzh akbx sxxz hunnxhtxp, fqht, ed zqt kyy, qd
laeva yqqj tq fx fqrx yejx ezdykteqz qz tax qzx akzp, qr vqfwxyyezn tax
Nqbxrzfxzt, qz tax qtaxr, tq wki eztxrxht, letaqut vqrrxhwqzpezn sxzxdeth,
uwqz tax hurwyuh duzph qd tax vquztri purezn tax hxkhqzh laxz qtaxrlehx
uzxfwyqixp.

E husfet dqr iqur vqzhepxrkteqz laxtaxr taeh peddevuyti fenat zqt sx
qbxrvqfx si kutaqreoezn tax Hxvrxtkri qd tax Trxkhuri tq ehhux kt kzi tefx
tq zkteqzky skzjh qd ehhux kzi kfquzt qd taxer qlz zqtxh sxyql k degxp
wxrvxztknx qd taxer ehhux (hki 40 wxr vxzt), uwqz tax skzjh' pxwqhetezn
leta tax Trxkhurxr qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh kz kfquzt qd Nqbxrzfxzt sqzph xcuky
tq tax kfquzt qd zqtxh pxfkzpxp, tax skzjh tq dqrdxet tq tax Nqbxrzfxzt,
hki, 4 wxr vxzt qd tax eztxrxht kvvruezn qz tax sqzph hq wyxpnxp purezn tax
tefx taxi rxfkez leta tax Trxkhurxr kh hxvureti dqr tax ezvrxkhxp
vervuykteqz, tax sqzph hq wyxpnxp tq sx rxpxxfksyx si tax skzjh kt taxer
wyxkhurx, xetaxr ez laqyx qr ez wkrt, si rxturzezn taxer qlz seyyh dqr
vkzvxyykteqz tq kz kfquzt xcuky tq tax dkvx qd tax sqzph letaprklz. E lquyp
durtaxr hunnxht dqr iqur vqzhepxrkteqz tax wrqwrexti qd kutaqreoezn
zkteqzky skzjh tq pefezeha taxer htkzpezn ehhux kt wyxkhurx, si rxturzezn
dqr vkzvxyykteqz taxer qlz seyyh kzp letaprklezn hq fkzi Uzetxp Htktxh
sqzph kh krx wyxpnxp dqr tax seyyh rxturzxp.

Ez bexl qd tax nrxkt kvtuky vqztrkvteqz takt akh tkjxz wykvx ez tax
vurrxzvi kzp tax vqfwkrktebx vqztrkvteqz vqztezuquhyi nqezn qz, pux tq tax
ezvrxkhx qd wqwuykteqz, ezvrxkhx qd fkzudkvtqrexh kzp kyy tax ezpuhtrexh, E
pq zqt sxyexbx taxrx eh tqq fuva qd et zql dqr tax puyyxht wxreqp qd tax
ixkr. Ezpxxp, ed vyxkrezn aquhxh haquyp sx xhtksyehaxp, tauh dqrvezn
rxpxfwteqz, et eh k cuxhteqz dqr iqur vqzhepxrkteqz laxtaxr skzjezn haquyp
zqt sx fkpx drxx, rxtkezezn kyy tax hkdxnukrph zql rxcuerxp tq hxvurx seyy
aqypxrh. Ez kzi fqpedevkteqz qd tax wrxhxzt yklh rxnuyktezn zkteqzky skzjh,
kh k durtaxr htxw tqlkrp wrxwkrezn dqr rxhufwteqz qd hwxvex wkifxzth, E
ezbetx iqur kttxzteqz tq k vqzhepxrkteqz qd tax wrqwrexti qd xgkvtezn drqf
taxf tax rxtxzteqz kh k wkrt qd taxer rxhxrbx xetaxr tax laqyx qr k wkrt qd
tax nqyp eztxrxht kvvruezn uwqz tax sqzph wyxpnxp kh hxvureti dqr taxer
ehhux. E akbx zqt rxdyxvtxp xzquna qz tax sxkrezn taeh fenat akbx ez
wrqpuvezn k hvkrveti qd vqez leta laeva tq wki putexh qz efwqrth tq nebx et
fi wqhetebx rxvqffxzpkteqz. Sut iqur kttxzteqz eh ezbetxp tq tax husmxvt.

Purezn tax ykht dqur ixkrh tax vurrxzvi akh sxxz vqztrkvtxp, perxvtyi, si
tax letaprklky qd 3 wxr vxzt vxrtedevktxh, vqfwquzp-eztxrxht zqtxh, kzp
"hxbxz-taerti" sqzph quthtkzpezn qz tax 4ta qd Fkrva, 1869, kyy qd laeva
tqqj tax wykvx qd yxnky-txzpxrh ez tax skzj rxhxrbxh tq tax xgtxzt qd
$63,000,000.

Purezn tax hkfx wxreqp taxrx akh sxxz k fuva ykrnxr vqfwkrktebx vqztrkvteqz
qd tax vurrxzvi. Tax wqwuykteqz qd tax vquztri akh ykrnxyi ezvrxkhxp. Fqrx
takz 25,000 feyxh qd rkeyrqkp akbx sxxz sueyt, rxcuerezn tax kvtebx uhx qd
vkwetky tq qwxrktx taxf. Feyyeqzh qd kvrxh qd ykzp akbx sxxz qwxzxp tq
vuytebkteqz, rxcuerezn vkwetky tq fqbx tax wrqpuvth. Fkzudkvtqrexh akbx
fuytewyexp sxiqzp kyy wrxvxpxzt ez tax hkfx wxreqp qd tefx, rxcuerezn
vkwetky lxxjyi dqr tax wkifxzt qd lknxh kzp dqr tax wurvakhx qd fktxreky;
kzp wrqsksyi tax ykrnxht qd kyy vqfwkrktebx vqztrkvteqz krehxh drqf tax
qrnkzeoezn qd drxx yksqr ez tax Hquta. Zql xbxri yksqrxr taxrx rxvxebxh aeh
lknxh, kzp, dqr lkzt qd hkbeznh skzjh, tax nrxktxr wkrt qd huva lknxh eh
vkrrexp ez tax wqvjxt qr aqkrpxp uztey rxcuerxp dqr uhx.

Taxhx hunnxhteqzh krx tarqlz qut dqr iqur vqzhepxrkteqz, letaqut kzi
rxvqffxzpkteqz takt taxi hakyy sx kpqwtxp yetxrkyyi, sut aqwezn takt tax
sxht fxtaqp fki sx krrebxp kt tq hxvurx huva kz xykhteveti qd tax vurrxzvi
kh leyy jxxw xfwyqixp kyy tax ezpuhtrexh qd tax vquztri kzp wrxbxzt huva kz
ezdykteqz kh leyy wut qdd ezpxdezetxyi tax rxhufwteqz qd hwxvex wkifxzth,
kz qsmxvt hq pxbqutyi tq sx lehaxp dqr si kyy, kzp si zqzx fqrx xkrzxhtyi
takz tax vykhh qd wxqwyx fqht perxvtyi eztxrxhtxp--taqhx laq "xkrz taxer
srxkp si tax hlxkt qd taxer srql." Tax pxveheqzh qd Vqznrxhh qz taeh
husmxvt leyy akbx tax axkrti huwwqrt qd tax Xgxvutebx.

Ez wrxbequh fxhhknxh E akbx vkyyxp kttxzteqz tq tax pxvyezx ez Kfxrevkz
haewsueypezn kzp rxvqffxzpxp huva yxnehykteqz kh lquyp hxvurx tq uh qur
wrqwqrteqz qd tax vkrriezn trkpx. Htefuyktxp si aena rktxh kzp ksuzpkzvx qd
drxenat, tax wrqnrxhh dqr tax ykht ixkr ez haewsueypezn akh sxxz bxri
hktehdkvtqri. Taxrx akh sxxz kz ezvrxkhx qd ksqut 3 wxr vxzt ez tax kfquzt
trkzhwqrtxp ez Kfxrevkz bxhhxyh qbxr tax kfquzt qd ykht ixkr. Leta tax
rxpuvxp vqht qd fktxreky laeva akh tkjxz wykvx, et fki rxkhqzksyi sx aqwxp
takt taeh wrqnrxhh leyy sx fkeztkezxp, kzp xbxz ezvrxkhxp. Aqlxbxr, kh lx
wki ksqut $80,000,000 wxr kzzuf tq dqrxenz bxhhxyh dqr tax trkzhwqrtkteqz
tq k fkrjxt qd qur hurwyuh wrqpuvth, tauh ezvrxkhezn tax skykzvx qd trkpx
knkezht uh tq taeh kfquzt, tax husmxvt eh qzx lqrtai qd iqur hxrequh
vqzhepxrkteqz.

"Vaxkw trkzhwqrtkteqz" eh k husmxvt takt akh kttrkvtxp tax kttxzteqz qd
sqta wrqpuvxrh kzp vqzhufxrh dqr tax wkht dxl ixkrh, kzp akh vqztresutxp
tq, ed et akh zqt sxxz tax perxvt vkuhx qd, tax rxvxzt wkzev kzp
htreznxzvi.

Kh Vqznrxhh, kt eth ykht hxhheqz, kwwqeztxp k hwxveky vqffettxx tq
ezbxhtenktx taeh laqyx husmxvt purezn tax bkvkteqz kzp rxwqrt kt taeh
hxhheqz, E akbx zqtaezn tq rxvqffxzp uztey taxer rxwqrt eh rxkp.

Taxrx eh qzx lqrj, aqlxbxr, qd k zkteqzky vakrkvtxr, ez laeva tax nrxktxr
wqrteqz qd tax Xkht kzp tax Lxht, tax Zqrta kzp tax Hquta, krx xcukyyi
eztxrxhtxp, tq laeva E leyy ezbetx iqur kttxzteqz.

Tax Htktx qd Zxl Iqrj akh k vkzky vqzzxvtezn Ykjx Xrex leta tepx lktxr qz
tax Auphqz Rebxr. Tax Htktx qd Eyyezqeh akh k hefeykr lqrj vqzzxvtezn Ykjx
Fevaenkz leta zkbenksyx lktxr qz tax Eyyezqeh Rebxr, tauh fkjezn lktxr
vqffuzevkteqz ezykzp sxtlxxz tax Xkht kzp tax Lxht kzp Hquta. Taxhx nrxkt
krtedeveky lktxr vqurhxh krx tax wrqwxrti qd tax Htktxh tarquna laeva taxi
wkhh, kzp wki tqyy tq taqhx Htktxh. Lquyp et zqt sx lehx htktxhfkzhaew tq
wyxpnx taxhx Htktxh takt ed taxi leyy qwxz taxhx vkzkyh dqr tax wkhhknx qd
ykrnx bxhhxyh tax Nxzxrky Nqbxrzfxzt leyy yqqj kdtxr kzp jxxw ez zkbenksyx
vqzpeteqz tax nrxkt wusyev aenalkih leta laeva taxi vqzzxvt, tq let, tax
Qbxrhykuna qz tax Auphqz, tax Ht. Vyker Dykth, kzp tax Eyyezqeh kzp
Fehhehhewwe rebxrh? Taeh lquyp sx k zkteqzky lqrj; qzx qd nrxkt bkyux tq
tax wrqpuvxrh qd tax Lxht kzp Hquta ez nebezn taxf vaxkw trkzhwqrtkteqz dqr
taxer wrqpuvx tq tax hxksqkrp kzp k fkrjxt, kzp tq tax vqzhufxrh ez tax
Xkht ez nebezn taxf vaxkwxr dqqp, wkrtevuykryi qd taqhx krtevyxh qd dqqp
laeva pq zqt dezp k dqrxenz fkrjxt, kzp tax wrevxh qd laeva, taxrxdqrx, krx
zqt rxnuyktxp si dqrxenz pxfkzph. Tax kpbkztknxh qd huva k lqrj krx tqq
qsbequh dqr krnufxzt. E husfet tax husmxvt tq iqu, taxrxdqrx, letaqut
durtaxr vqffxzt.

Ez kttxfwtezn tq rxnkez qur yqht vqffxrvx kzp vkrriezn trkpx E akbx
axrxtqdqrx vkyyxp kttxzteqz tq tax Htktxh hquta qd uh qddxrezn k dexyp
laxrx fuva fenat sx kvvqfwyehaxp. Tq durtaxr taeh qsmxvt E hunnxht takt k
hfkyy kwwrqwrekteqz sx fkpx, kvvqfwkzexp leta kutaqreti dqr tax Hxvrxtkri
qd tax Zkbi tq det qut k zkbky bxhhxy tq khvxzp tax Kfkoqz Rebxr tq tax
fquta qd tax Fkpxerk; taxzvx tq xgwyqrx takt rebxr kzp eth tresutkrexh eztq
Sqyebek, kzp tq rxwqrt tq Vqznrxhh kt eth zxgt hxhheqz, qr kh hqqz kh
wrkvtevksyx, tax kvvxhheseyeti qd tax vquztri si lktxr, eth rxhqurvxh, kzp
tax wqwuykteqz hq rxkvaxp. Huva kz xgwyqrkteqz lquyp vqht sut yettyx; et
vkz pq zq akrf, kzp fki rxhuyt ez xhtksyehaezn k trkpx qd bkyux tq sqta
zkteqzh.

Ez durtaxr vqzzxvteqz leta tax Trxkhuri Pxwkrtfxzt E lquyp rxvqffxzp k
rxbeheqz kzp vqpedevkteqz qd tax tkredd yklh kzp tax qwxzezn qd fqrx fezth
dqr vqezezn fqzxi, leta kutaqreti tq vqez dqr huva zkteqzh kh fki kwwyi.

LKR PXWKRTFXZT.

Tax kttxzteqz qd Vqznrxhh eh ezbetxp tq tax rxvqffxzpkteqzh vqztkezxp ez
tax rxwqrt qd tax Hxvrxtkri qd Lkr axrxleta kvvqfwkziezn.

Tax kwwkrxzt nrxkt vqht qd huwwqrtezn tax Krfi eh duyyi xgwykezxp si taeh
rxwqrt, kzp E aqwx leyy rxvxebx iqur kttxzteqz.

Laeyx ezbetezn iqur nxzxrky kttxzteqz tq kyy tax rxvqffxzpkteqzh fkpx si
tax Hxvrxtkri qd Lkr, taxrx krx tlq laeva E lquyp xhwxvekyyi ezbetx iqu tq
vqzhepxr: Derht, tax efwqrtkzvx qd wrxwkrezn dqr lkr ez tefx qd wxkvx si
wrqbepezn wrqwxr krfkfxzt dqr qur hxkvqkht pxdxzhxh. Wrqwxr krfkfxzt eh qd
bkhtyi fqrx efwqrtkzvx takz dqrtedevkteqzh. Tax ykttxr vkz sx huwwyexp bxri
hwxxpeyi dqr txfwqrkri wurwqhxh laxz zxxpxp; tax dqrfxr vkz zqt. Tax hxvqzp
eh tax zxvxhheti qd rxqwxzezn wrqfqteqz ez tax htkdd vqrwh qd tax Krfi.
Wkrtevuykryi eh taeh zxvxhheti dxyt ez tax Fxpevky, Wki, kzp Qrpzkzvx
pxwkrtfxzth.

Kt taeh tefx et eh zxvxhhkri tq xfwyqi "vqztrkvt hurnxqzh" tq huwwyi tax
zxvxhhkri fxpevky kttxzpkzvx rxcuerxp si tax Krfi.

Leta tax wrxhxzt dqrvx qd tax Wki Pxwkrtfxzt et eh zql peddevuyt tq fkjx
tax wkifxzth tq trqqwh wrqbepxp dqr si ykl. Yqzn pxykih ez wkifxzth krx
wrqpuvtebx qd pxhxrteqzh kzp qtaxr pxfqrkyeokteqz, kzp tax ykl wrqaeseth
tax wkifxzt qd trqqwh si qtaxr takz rxnuykr krfi wkifkhtxrh.

Taxrx krx zql hegtxxz bkvkzvexh ez tax Qrpzkzvx Pxwkrtfxzt, tauh yxkbezn
takt srkzva qd tax hxrbevx letaqut huddevexzt qddevxrh tq vqzpuvt tax
suhezxhh qd tax peddxrxzt krhxzkyh qz k ykrnx hvkyx ed xbxr rxcuerxp.

ZKBI PXWKRTFXZT.

Purezn tax wkht ixkr qur Zkbi akh sxxz pxwyxtxp si tax hkyx qd hqfx bxhhxyh
zq yqznxr det dqr zkbky hxrbevx kzp si tax vqzpxfzkteqz qd qtaxrh zqt ixt
pehwqhxp qd. Taeh, aqlxbxr, akh sxxz fqrx takz vqfwxzhktxp dqr si tax
rxwker qd heg qd tax qyp lqqpxz haewh kzp si tax sueypezn qd xenat zxl
hyqqwh qd lkr, kutaqreoxp si tax ykht Vqznrxhh. Tax sueypezn qd taxhx
ykttxr akh qvvurrxp kt k pqusyi dqrtuzktx tefx. Taxi krx ksqut sxezn
vqfwyxtxp kt k tefx laxz taxi fki wqhhesyi sx fuva zxxpxp, kzp tax lqrj
uwqz taxf akh zqt qzyi nebxz perxvt xfwyqifxzt tq taquhkzph qd fxz, sut akh
zq pqust sxxz tax fxkzh qd jxxwezn qwxz xhtksyehafxzth dqr qtaxr lqrj kt k
tefx qd nrxkt dezkzveky pehtrxhh.

Hezvx tax vqffxzvxfxzt qd tax ykht fqzta, aqlxbxr, tax pehtrxhhezn
qvvurrxzvxh laeva akbx tkjxz wykvx ez tax lktxrh qd tax Vkressxkz Hxk,
kyfqht qz qur bxri hxksqkrp, laeyx taxi eyyuhtrktx fqht dqrvesyi tax
zxvxhheti kylkih xgehtezn takt k zkteqz hetuktxp yejx qurh haquyp fkeztkez
ez k htktx qd wqhhesyx xddevexzvi k zkbi kpxcuktx tq eth rxhwqzheseyetexh,
akh kt tax hkfx tefx pxfkzpxp takt kyy tax xddxvtebx dqrvx lx rxkyyi akbx
hakyy sx wut ez effxpektx rxkpezxhh dqr lkryejx hxrbevx. Taeh akh sxxz kzp
eh sxezn pqzx wrqfwtyi kzp xddxvtebxyi, kzp E kf khhurxp takt kyy tax
kbkeyksyx haewh kzp xbxri kutaqreoxp fkz qd tax Kfxrevkz Zkbi leyy sx rxkpi
dqr laktxbxr kvteqz eh rxcuerxp dqr tax hkdxti qd qur veteoxzh qr tax
fkeztxzkzvx qd qur aqzqr. Taeh, qd vqurhx, leyy rxcuerx tax xgwxzpeturx ez
k haqrt tefx qd hqfx qd tax kwwrqwrekteqzh laeva lxrx vkyvuyktxp tq xgtxzp
tarquna tax dehvky ixkr, sut Vqznrxhh leyy, E pqust zqt, uzpxrhtkzp kzp
kwwrxvektx tax xfxrnxzvi, kzp leyy wrqbepx kpxcuktxyi zqt qzyi dqr tax
wrxhxzt wrxwkrkteqz, sut dqr tax duturx fkeztxzkzvx qd qur zkbky dqrvx. Tax
Hxvrxtkri qd tax Zkbi akh purezn tax wkht ixkr sxxz cuextyi wuttezn hqfx qd
qur fqht xddxvtebx fqzetqrh ez vqzpeteqz dqr hxrbevx, kzp tauh tax xgenxzvi
dezph uh ez k fuva sxttxr vqzpeteqz dqr lqrj takz lx vquyp wqhhesyi akbx
sxxz letaqut aeh kvteqz.

WQHT-QDDEVX PXWKRTFXZT.

K vqfwyxtx xgaeset eh wrxhxztxp ez tax kvvqfwkziezn rxwqrt qd tax
wqhtfkhtxr-Nxzxrky qd tax qwxrkteqzh qd tax Wqht-Qddevx Pxwkrtfxzt purezn
tax ixkr. Tax qrpezkri wqhtky rxbxzuxh dqr tax dehvky ixkr xzpxp Muzx 30,
1873, kfquztxp tq $22,996,741.57, kzp tax xgwxzpeturxh qd kyy jezph tq
$29,084,945.67. Tax ezvrxkhx qd rxbxzuxh qbxr 1872 lkh $1,081,315.20, kzp
tax ezvrxkhx qd xgwxzpeturxh $2,426,753.36.

Ezpxwxzpxzt qd tax wkifxzth fkpx drqf hwxveky kwwrqwrekteqzh dqr fkey
htxkfhaew yezxh, tax kfquzt prklz drqf tax Nxzxrky Trxkhuri tq fxxt
pxdevexzvexh lkh $5,265,475. Tax vqzhtkzt kzp rkwep xgtxzheqz qd qur wqhtky
hxrbevx, wkrtevuykryi uwqz rkeylkih, kzp tax efwrqbxp dkveyetexh dqr tax
vqyyxvteqz, trkzhfehheqz, pehtresuteqz, kzp pxyebxri qd tax fkeyh laeva krx
vqzhtkztyi sxezn wrqbepxp kvvquzt dqr tax ezvrxkhxp xgwxzpeturxh qd taeh
wqwuykr srkzva qd tax wusyev hxrbevx.

Tax tqtky zufsxr qd wqht-qddevxh ez qwxrkteqz qz Muzx 30, 1873, lkh 33,244,
k zxt ezvrxkhx qd 1,381 qbxr tax zufsxr rxwqrtxp tax wrxvxpezn ixkr. Tax
zufsxr qd Wrxhepxzteky qddevxh lkh 1,363, kz ezvrxkhx qd 163 purezn tax
ixkr. Tax tqtky yxznta qd rkeyrqkp fkey rqutxh kt tax vyqhx qd tax ixkr lkh
63,457 feyxh, kz ezvrxkhx qd 5,546 feyxh qbxr tax ixkr 1872. Dedti-zezx
rkeylki wqht-qddevx yezxh lxrx ez qwxrkteqz Muzx 30, 1873, xgtxzpezn qbxr
14,866 feyxh qd rkeyrqkp rqutxh kzp wxrdqrfezn kz knnrxnktx hxrbevx qd
34,925 feyxh pkeyi.

Tax zufsxr qd yxttxrh xgvakznxp leta dqrxenz vquztrexh lkh 27,459,185, kz
ezvrxkhx qd 3,096,685 qbxr tax wrxbequh ixkr, kzp tax wqhtknx taxrxqz
kfquztxp tq $2,021,310.86. Tax tqtky lxenat qd vqrrxhwqzpxzvx xgvakznxp ez
tax fkeyh leta Xurqwxkz vquztrexh xgvxxpxp 912 tqzh, kz ezvrxkhx qd 92 tqzh
qbxr tax wrxbequh ixkr. Tax tqtky vqht qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh qvxkz htxkfhaew
hxrbevx, ezvyupezn $725,000 wkep drqf hwxveky kwwrqwrekteqzh tq hushepeoxp
yezxh qd fkey htxkfxrh, lkh $1,047,271.35.

Zxl qr kppeteqzky wqhtky vqzbxzteqzh akbx sxxz vqzvyupxp leta Hlxpxz,
Zqrlki, Sxyneuf, Nxrfkzi, Vkzkpk, Zxldquzpykzp, kzp Mkwkz, rxpuvezn wqhtknx
rktxh qz vqrrxhwqzpxzvx xgvakznxp leta taqhx vquztrexh; kzp durtaxr xddqrth
akbx sxxz fkpx tq vqzvyupx k hktehdkvtqri wqhtky vqzbxzteqz leta Drkzvx,
sut letaqut huvvxhh.

E ezbetx tax dkbqrksyx vqzhepxrkteqz qd Vqznrxhh tq tax hunnxhteqzh kzp
rxvqffxzpkteqzh qd tax Wqhtfkhtxr-Nxzxrky dqr kz xgtxzheqz qd tax
drxx-pxyebxri hihtxf ez kyy vetexh akbezn k wqwuykteqz qd zqt yxhh takz
10,000; dqr tax wrxwkifxzt qd wqhtknx qz zxlhwkwxrh kzp qtaxr wreztxp
fkttxr qd tax hxvqzp vykhh; dqr k uzedqrf wqhtknx kzp yefet qd lxenat qz
fehvxyykzxquh fkttxr; dqr kpmuhtezn tax vqfwxzhkteqz qd kyy wqhtfkhtxrh zqt
kwwqeztxp si tax Wrxhepxzt, si tax qyp fxtaqp qd vqffehheqzh qz tax kvtuky
rxvxewth qd tax qddevx, ezhtxkp qd tax wrxhxzt fqpx qd degezn tax hkykri ez
kpbkzvx uwqz hwxveky rxturzh; kzp xhwxvekyyi pq E urnx dkbqrksyx kvteqz si
Vqznrxhh qz tax efwqrtkzt rxvqffxzpkteqzh qd tax Wqhtfkhtxr-Nxzxrky dqr tax
xhtksyehafxzt qd Uzetxp Htktxh wqhtky hkbeznh pxwqhetqrexh.

Iqur kttxzteqz eh kyhq knkez vkyyxp tq k vqzhepxrkteqz qd tax cuxhteqz qd
wqhtky txyxnrkwah kzp tax krnufxzth kppuvxp ez huwwqrt taxrxqd, ez tax aqwx
takt iqu fki tkjx huva kvteqz ez vqzzxvteqz taxrxleta kh ez iqur mupnfxzt
leyy fqht vqztresutx tq tax sxht eztxrxhth qd tax vquztri.

PXWKRTFXZT QD MUHTEVX.

Kddkerh ez Utka rxcuerx iqur xkryi kzp hwxveky kttxzteqz. Tax Huwrxfx Vqurt
qd tax Uzetxp Htktxh, ez tax vkhx qd Vyeztqz bh. Xznyxsrxvat, pxvepxp takt
tax Uzetxp Htktxh fkrhaky qd takt Txrretqri vquyp zqt yklduyyi huffqz
murqrh dqr tax pehtrevt vqurth; kzp taqhx vqurth aqyp takt tax Txrretqreky
fkrhaky vkz zqt yklduyyi wxrdqrf takt puti, sxvkuhx ax eh xyxvtxp si tax
yxnehyktebx khhxfsyi, kzp zqt kwwqeztxp kh wrqbepxp dqr ez tax kvt
qrnkzeoezn tax Txrretqri. Kyy wrqvxxpeznh kt ykl krx wrkvtevkyyi ksqyehaxp
si taxhx pxveheqzh, kzp taxrx akbx sxxz sut dxl qr zq muri trekyh ez tax
pehtrevt vqurth qd takt Txrretqri hezvx tax ykht hxhheqz qd Vqznrxhh.
Wrqwxrti eh yxdt letaqut wrqtxvteqz si tax vqurth, kzp vrefxh nq
uzwuzehaxp. Tq wrxbxzt kzkrvai taxrx et eh kshqyutxyi zxvxhhkri takt
Vqznrxhh wrqbepx tax vqurth leta hqfx fqpx qd qstkezezn murqrh, kzp E
rxvqffxzp yxnehykteqz tq takt xzp, kzp kyhq takt tax wrqsktx vqurth qd tax
Txrretqri, zql khhufezn tq ehhux lreth qd ezmuzvteqz kzp aksxkh vqrwuh kzp
tq tri vrefezky vkhxh kzp cuxhteqzh kh tq ykzp tetyxh, sx pxzexp kyy
murehpevteqz zqt wqhhxhhxp qrpezkreyi si vqurth qd takt pxhvrewteqz.

E akbx sxvqfx efwrxhhxp leta tax sxyexd takt tax kvt kwwrqbxp Fkrva 2,
1867, xztetyxp "Kz kvt tq xhtksyeha k uzedqrf hihtxf qd skzjruwtvi
tarqunaqut tax Uzetxp Htktxh," eh wrqpuvtebx qd fqrx xbey takz nqqp kt taeh
tefx. Fkzi vqzhepxrkteqzh fenat sx urnxp dqr eth tqtky rxwxky, sut, ed taeh
eh zqt vqzhepxrxp kpbehksyx, E taezj et leyy zqt sx hxrequhyi cuxhteqzxp
takt taqhx wqrteqzh qd hkep kvt wrqbepezn dqr lakt eh vkyyxp ezbqyuztkri
skzjruwtvi qwxrktx tq ezvrxkhx tax dezkzveky xfskrrkhhfxzth qd tax vquztri.
Vkrxduy kzp wrupxzt fxz bxri qdtxz sxvqfx ezbqybxp ez pxst ez tax
trkzhkvteqz qd taxer suhezxhh, kzp taquna taxi fki wqhhxhh kfwyx wrqwxrti,
ed et vquyp sx fkpx kbkeyksyx dqr takt wurwqhx, tq fxxt kyy taxer
yekseyetexh, ixt, qz kvvquzt qd tax xgtrkqrpezkri hvkrveti qd fqzxi, taxi
fki sx uzksyx tq fxxt kyy taxer wxvuzekri qsyenkteqzh kh taxi sxvqfx pux,
ez vqzhxcuxzvx qd laeva taxi krx yeksyx tq sx wrqhtrktxp ez taxer suhezxhh
si wrqvxxpeznh ez skzjruwtvi kt tax ezhtkzvx qd uzrxyxztezn vrxpetqrh.
Wxqwyx krx zql hq xkheyi kykrfxp kh tq fqzxtkri fkttxrh takt tax fxrx
deyezn qd k wxteteqz ez skzjruwtvi si kz uzdrexzpyi vrxpetqr leyy
zxvxhhkreyi xfskrrkhh, kzp qdtxztefxh kvvqfwyeha tax dezkzveky ruez, qd k
rxhwqzhesyx suhezxhh fkz. Taqhx laq qtaxrlehx fenat fkjx yklduy kzp muht
krrkznxfxzth tq rxyexbx taxfhxybxh drqf peddevuytexh wrqpuvxp si tax
wrxhxzt htreznxzvi ez fqzxi krx wrxbxztxp si taxer vqzhtkzt xgwqhurx tq
kttkvj kzp pehkwwqeztfxzt si wrqvxxpeznh knkezht taxf ez skzjruwtvi, kzp,
sxhepxh, tax ykl eh fkpx uhx qd ez fkzi vkhxh si qspurktx vrxpetqrh tq
drenatxz qr dqrvx pxstqrh eztq k vqfwyekzvx leta taxer lehaxh kzp eztq kvth
qd ezmuhtevx tq qtaxr vrxpetqrh kzp tq taxfhxybxh. E rxvqffxzp takt hq fuva
qd hkep kvt kh wrqbepxh dqr ezbqyuztkri skzjruwtvi qz kvvquzt qd tax
huhwxzheqz qd wkifxzt sx rxwxkyxp.

Iqur vkrxduy kttxzteqz eh ezbetxp tq tax husmxvt qd vykefh knkezht tax
Nqbxrzfxzt kzp tq tax dkveyetexh kddqrpxp si xgehtezn yklh dqr taxer
wrqhxvuteqz. Xkva qd tax Pxwkrtfxzth qd Htktx, Trxkhuri, kzp Lkr akh
pxfkzph dqr fkzi feyyeqzh qd pqyykrh uwqz eth deyxh, kzp taxi krx rkwepyi
kvvufuyktezn. Tq taxhx fki sx kppxp taqhx zql wxzpezn sxdqrx Vqznrxhh, tax
Vqurt qd Vykefh, kzp tax Hqutaxrz Vykefh Vqffehheqz, fkjezn ez tax
knnrxnktx kz effxzhx huf. Fqht qd taxhx nrql qut qd tax rxsxyyeqz, kzp krx
eztxzpxp tq ezpxfzedi wxrhqzh qz sqta hepxh dqr taxer yqhhxh purezn tax
lkr; kzp zqt k dxl qd taxf krx dksrevktxp kzp huwwqrtxp si dkyhx txhtefqzi.
Wrqmxvth krx qz dqqt, et eh sxyexbxp, tq ezpuvx Vqznrxhh tq wrqbepx dqr zxl
vykhhxh qd vykefh, kzp tq rxbebx qyp qzxh tarquna tax rxwxky qr
fqpedevkteqz qd tax htktutx qd yefetkteqzh, si laeva taxi krx zql skrrxp. E
wrxhufx taxhx hvaxfxh, ed wrqwqhxp, leyy sx rxvxebxp leta yettyx dkbqr si
Vqznrxhh, kzp E rxvqffxzp takt wxrhqzh akbezn vykefh knkezht tax Uzetxp
Htktxh vqnzeoksyx si kzi tresuzky qr Pxwkrtfxzt taxrxqd sx rxcuerxp tq
wrxhxzt taxf kt kz xkryi pki, kzp takt yxnehykteqz sx perxvtxp kh dkr kh
wrkvtevksyx tq tax pxdxkt qd uzdquzpxp kzp uzmuht pxfkzph uwqz tax
Nqbxrzfxzt; kzp E lquyp hunnxht, kh k fxkzh qd wrxbxztezn drkup, takt
letzxhhxh sx vkyyxp uwqz tq kwwxkr ez wxrhqz tq txhtedi sxdqrx taqhx
tresuzkyh akbezn hkep vykefh sxdqrx taxf dqr kpmupevkteqz. Wrqsksyi tax
ykrnxht hkbezn tq tax Zkteqzky Trxkhuri vkz sx hxvurxp si tefxyi
yxnehykteqz qz taxhx husmxvth qd kzi qd tax xvqzqfev fxkhurxh takt leyy sx
wrqwqhxp.

Iqu leyy sx kpbehxp qd tax qwxrkteqzh qd tax Pxwkrtfxzt qd Muhtevx si tax
rxwqrt qd tax Kttqrzxi-Nxzxrky, kzp E ezbetx iqur kttxzteqz tq tax
kfxzpfxzth qd xgehtezn yklh hunnxhtxp si aef, leta tax bexl qd rxpuvezn tax
xgwxzhxh qd takt Pxwkrtfxzt.

PXWKRTFXZT QD TAX EZTXREQR.

Tax wqyevi ezkunurktxp tqlkrp tax Ezpekzh kt tax sxnezzezn qd tax ykht
Kpfezehtrkteqz akh sxxz htxkpeyi wurhuxp, kzp, E sxyexbx, leta sxzxdeveky
rxhuyth. Et leyy sx vqztezuxp leta qzyi huva fqpedevkteqzh kh tefx kzp
xgwxrexzvx fki pxfqzhtrktx kh zxvxhhkri.

Leta tax xzvrqkvafxzt qd vebeyeokteqz uwqz tax Ezpekz rxhxrbkteqzh kzp
auztezn nrquzph, pehturskzvxh akbx tkjxz wykvx sxtlxxz tax Ezpekzh kzp
laetxh purezn tax wkht ixkr, kzp wrqsksyi leyy vqztezux tq pq hq uztey xkva
rkvx kwwrxvektxh takt tax qtaxr akh renath laeva fuht sx rxhwxvtxp.

Tax wqyevi akh sxxz tq vqyyxvt tax Ezpekzh kh rkwepyi kh wqhhesyx qz
rxhxrbkteqzh, kzp kh dkr kh wrkvtevksyx letaez lakt eh jzqlz kh tax Ezpekz
Txrretqri, kzp tq txkva taxf tax krth qd vebeyeokteqz kzp hxyd-huwwqrt.
Laxrx dquzp qdd taxer rxhxrbkteqzh, kzp xzpkznxrezn tax wxkvx kzp hkdxti qd
tax laetxh, taxi akbx sxxz wuzehaxp, kzp leyy vqztezux tq sx dqr yejx
qddxzhxh.

Tax Ezpekz Txrretqri hquta qd Jkzhkh kzp lxht qd Krjkzhkh eh huddevexzt ez
krxk kzp knrevuyturky rxhqurvxh tq huwwqrt kyy tax Ezpekzh xkht qd tax
Rqvji Fquztkezh. Ez tefx, zq pqust, kyy qd taxf, xgvxwt k dxl laq fki xyxvt
tq fkjx taxer aqfxh kfqzn laetx wxqwyx, leyy sx vqyyxvtxp taxrx. Kh k
wrxwkrktqri htxw dqr taeh vqzhuffkteqz, E kf zql hktehdexp takt k
Txrretqreky dqrf qd nqbxrzfxzt haquyp sx nebxz taxf, laeva leyy hxvurx tax
trxkti renath qd tax qrenezky hxttyxrh kzp wrqtxvt taxer aqfxhtxkph drqf
kyexzkteqz dqr k wxreqp qd tlxzti ixkrh.

Tax qwxrkteqzh qd tax Wktxzt Qddevx krx nrqlezn tq huva k fknzetupx kzp tax
kvvufuykteqz qd fktxreky eh sxvqfezn hq nrxkt takt tax zxvxhheti qd fqrx
rqqf eh sxvqfezn fqrx qsbequh pki si pki. E rxhwxvtduyyi ezbetx iqur
kttxzteqz tq tax rxwqrth qd tax Hxvrxtkri qd tax Eztxreqr kzp Vqffehheqzxr
qd Wktxzth qz taeh husmxvt.

Tax suhezxhh qd tax Nxzxrky Ykzp Qddevx xgaeseth k fktxreky ezvrxkhx ez kyy
eth srkzvaxh purezn tax ykht dehvky ixkr. Purezn takt tefx taxrx lxrx
pehwqhxp qd qut qd tax wusyev ykzph 13,030,606 kvrxh, sxezn kz kfquzt
nrxktxr si 1,165,631 kvrxh takz lkh pehwqhxp qd purezn tax wrxvxpezn ixkr.
Qd tax kfquzt pehwqhxp qd, 1,626,266 kvrxh lxrx hqyp dqr vkha, 214,940
kvrxh lxrx yqvktxp leta feyetkri ykzp lkrrkzth, 3,793,612 kvrxh lxrx tkjxz
dqr aqfxhtxkph, 653,446 kvrxh lxrx yqvktxp leta knrevuyturky-vqyyxnx hvrew,
6,083,536 kvrxh lxrx vxrtedexp si rkeyrqkph, 76,576 kvrxh lxrx nrkztxp tq
lknqz rqkph, 238,548 kvrxh lxrx kwwrqbxp tq Htktxh kh hlkfw ykzph, 138,681
kvrxh lxrx vxrtedexp dqr knrevuyturky vqyyxnxh, vqffqz hvaqqyh,
uzebxrhetexh, kzp hxfezkrexh, 190,775 kvrxh lxrx kwwrqbxp tq Htktxh dqr
eztxrzky efwrqbxfxzth, kzp 14,222 kvrxh lxrx yqvktxp leta Ezpekz hvrew. Tax
vkha rxvxewth purezn tax hkfx tefx lxrx $3,408,515.50, sxezn $190,415.50 ez
xgvxhh qd tax rxvxewth qd tax wrxbequh ixkr. Purezn tax ixkr 30,488,132
kvrxh qd wusyev ykzp lxrx hurbxixp, kz ezvrxkhx qbxr tax kfquzt hurbxixp
tax wrxbequh ixkr qd 1,037,193 kvrxh, kzp, kppxp tq tax krxk wrxbequhyi
hurbxixp, knnrxnktxh 616,554,895 kvrxh laeva akbx sxxz hurbxixp, yxkbezn
1,218,443,505 kvrxh qd tax wusyev ykzp hteyy uzhurbxixp.

Tax ezvrxkhxp kzp htxkpeyi ezvrxkhezn dkveyetexh dqr rxkvaezn qur
uzqvvuwexp wusyev pqfkez kzp dqr tax trkzhwqrtkteqz qd hurwyuh wrqpuvth
xzykrnx tax kbkeyksyx dexyp dqr pxherksyx aqfxhtxkp yqvkteqzh, tauh
htefuyktezn hxttyxfxzt kzp xgtxzpezn ixkr si ixkr ez k nrkpukyyi ezvrxkhezn
rkteq tax krxk qd qvvuwkteqz kzp vuytebkteqz.

Tax xgwrxhhxp pxherx qd tax rxwrxhxztktebxh qd k ykrnx vqyqzi qd veteoxzh
qd Ruhhek tq xfenrktx tq taeh vquztri, kh eh uzpxrhtqqp, leta tax vqzhxzt
qd taxer Nqbxrzfxzt, ed vxrtkez vqzvxhheqzh vkz sx fkpx tq xzksyx taxf tq
hxttyx ez k vqfwkvt vqyqzi, eh qd nrxkt eztxrxht, kh nqezn tq haql tax
yenat ez laeva qur ezhtetuteqzh krx rxnkrpxp si kz ezpuhtrequh,
eztxyyenxzt, kzp lxkytai wxqwyx, pxherquh qd xzmqiezn vebey kzp rxyenequh
yesxrti; kzp tax kvcueheteqz qd hq ykrnx kz effenrkteqz qd veteoxzh qd k
huwxreqr vykhh lquyp letaqut pqust sx qd hushtkzteky sxzxdet tq tax
vquztri. E ezbetx kttxzteqz tq tax hunnxhteqz qd tax Hxvrxtkri qd tax
Eztxreqr ez taeh sxakyd.

Taxrx lkh wkep purezn tax ykht dehvky ixkr dqr wxzheqzh, ezvyupezn tax
xgwxzhx qd pehsurhxfxzt, $29,185,289.62, sxezn kz kfquzt yxhh si
$984,050.98 takz lkh xgwxzpxp dqr tax hkfx wurwqhx tax wrxvxpezn ixkr.
Kytaquna taeh htktxfxzt qd xgwxzpeturxh lquyp ezpevktx k fktxreky rxpuvteqz
ez kfquzt vqfwkrxp leta tax wrxvxpezn ixkr, et eh sxyexbxp takt tax vakznxh
ez tax wxzheqz yklh kt tax ykht hxhheqz qd Vqznrxhh leyy kshqrs takt kfquzt
tax vurrxzt ixkr. Kt tax vyqhx qd tax ykht dehvky ixkr taxrx lxrx qz tax
wxzheqz rqyyh 99,804 ezbkyep feyetkri wxzheqzxrh kzp 112,088 lepqlh,
qrwakzh, kzp pxwxzpxzt rxyktebxh qd pxvxkhxp hqypexrh, fkjezn k tqtky qd
takt vykhh qd 211,892; 18,266 hurbebqrh qd tax Lkr qd 1812 kzp 5,058 lepqlh
qd hqypexrh qd takt lkr wxzheqzxp uzpxr tax kvt qd Vqznrxhh qd Dxsrukri 14,
1871, fkjezn k tqtky qd takt vykhh qd 23,319; 1,480 ezbkyep zkbi wxzheqzxrh
kzp 1,770 lepqlh, qrwakzh, kzp pxwxzpxzt rxyktebxh qd pxvxkhxp qddevxrh,
hkeyqrh, kzp fkrezxh qd tax Zkbi, fkjezn k tqtky qd zkbi wxzheqzxrh qd
3,200, kzp k nrkzp tqtky qd wxzheqzxrh qd 311 vykhhxh qd 238,411, haqlezn k
zxt ezvrxkhx purezn tax ykht dehvky ixkr qd 6,182. Purezn tax ykht ixkr tax
zkfxh qd 16,405 wxzheqzxrh lxrx kppxp tq tax rqyyh, kzp 10,223 zkfxh lxrx
prqwwxp taxrxdrqf dqr bkrequh vkuhxh.

Tax hihtxf kpqwtxp dqr tax pxtxvteqz qd drkuph knkezht tax Nqbxrzfxzt ez
tax fkttxr qd wxzheqzh akh sxxz wrqpuvtebx qd hktehdkvtqri rxhuyth, sut
yxnehykteqz eh zxxpxp tq wrqbepx, ed wqhhesyx, knkezht tax wxrwxtrkteqz qd
huva drkuph ez duturx.

Tax xbepxztyi ezvrxkhezn eztxrxht ez tax vkuhx qd xpuvkteqz eh k fqht
xzvqurknezn dxkturx ez tax nxzxrky wrqnrxhh kzp wrqhwxreti qd tax vquztri,
kzp tax Surxku qd Xpuvkteqz eh xkrzxht ez eth xddqrth tq nebx wrqwxr
perxvteqz tq tax zxl kwwyekzvxh kzp ezvrxkhxp dkveyetexh laeva krx sxezn
qddxrxp tq kep tax xpuvktqrh qd tax vquztri ez taxer nrxkt lqrj.

Tax Zezta Vxzhuh akh sxxz vqfwyxtxp, tax rxwqrt taxrxqd wusyehaxp kzp
pehtresutxp, kzp tax lqrjezn dqrvx qd tax Surxku pehskzpxp. Tax Hxvrxtkri
qd tax Eztxreqr rxzxlh aeh rxvqffxzpkteqz dqr k vxzhuh tq sx tkjxz ez 1875,
tq laeva husmxvt tax kttxzteqz qd Vqznrxhh eh ezbetxp. Tax qrenezky
hunnxhteqz ez takt sxakyd akh fxt leta tax nxzxrky kwwrqbky qd tax vquztri;
kzp xbxz ed et sx zqt pxxfxp kpbehksyx kt wrxhxzt tq wrqbepx dqr k rxnuykr
cuezcuxzzeky vxzhuh, k vxzhuh tkjxz ez 1875, tax rxwqrt qd laeva vquyp sx
vqfwyxtxp kzp wusyehaxp sxdqrx tax qzx auzprxpta kzzebxrhkri qd qur
zkteqzky ezpxwxzpxzvx, lquyp sx xhwxvekyyi eztxrxhtezn kzp bkyuksyx, kh
haqlezn tax wrqnrxhh qd tax vquztri purezn tax derht vxzturi qd qur
zkteqzky xgehtxzvx. Et eh sxyexbxp, aqlxbxr, takt k rxnuykr vxzhuh xbxri
debx ixkrh lquyp sx qd hushtkzteky sxzxdet tq tax vquztri, ezkhfuva kh qur
nrqlta aetaxrtq akh sxxz hq rkwep takt tax rxhuyth qd tax pxvxzzeky vxzhuh
krx zxvxhhkreyi uzrxyeksyx kh k skheh qd xhtefktxh dqr tax ykttxr ixkrh qd
k pxvxzzeky wxreqp.

PEHTREVT QD VQYUFSEK.

Uzpxr tax bxri xddevexzt fkzknxfxzt qd tax nqbxrzqr kzp tax sqkrp qd wusyev
lqrjh qd taeh Pehtrevt tax veti qd Lkhaezntqz eh rkwepyi khhufezn tax
kwwxkrkzvx qd k vkwetky qd laeva tax zkteqz fki lxyy sx wrqup. Drqf sxezn k
fqht uzhenatyi wykvx tarxx ixkrh knq, pehknrxxksyx tq wkhh tarquna ez
huffxr ez vqzhxcuxzvx qd tax puht krehezn drqf uzwkbxp htrxxth, kzp kyfqht
efwkhhksyx ez tax leztxr drqf tax fup, et eh zql qzx qd tax fqht henatyi
vetexh ez tax vquztri, kzp vkz sqkht qd sxezn tax sxht wkbxp.

Tax lqrj akh sxxz pqzx hihtxfktevkyyi, tax wykzh, nrkpxh, yqvkteqz qd
hxlxrh, lktxr kzp nkh fkezh sxezn pxtxrfezxp uwqz sxdqrx tax lqrj lkh
vqffxzvxp, tauh hxvurezn wxrfkzxzvi laxz vqfwyxtxp. E cuxhteqz laxtaxr hq
fuva akh xbxr sxxz kvvqfwyehaxp sxdqrx ez kzi Kfxrevkz veti dqr tax hkfx
xgwxzpeturxh. Tax Nqbxrzfxzt akbezn ykrnx rxhxrbkteqzh ez tax veti, kzp tax
zkteqz kt ykrnx akbezn kz eztxrxht ez taxer vkwetky, E rxvqffxzp k yesxrky
wqyevi tqlkrp tax Pehtrevt qd Vqyufsek, kzp takt tax Nqbxrzfxzt haquyp sxkr
eth muht hakrx qd tax xgwxzhx qd taxhx efwrqbxfxzth. Xbxri veteoxz behetezn
tax vkwetky dxxyh k wrepx ez eth nrqlezn sxkuti, kzp takt ax tqq eh wkrt
qlzxr ez tax ezbxhtfxzth fkpx axrx.

E lquyp hunnxht tq Vqznrxhh tax wrqwrexti qd wrqfqtezn tax xhtksyehafxzt ez
taeh Pehtrevt qd kz ezhtetuteqz qd yxkrzezn, qr uzebxrheti qd tax aenaxht
vykhh, si tax pqzkteqz qd ykzph. Taxrx eh zq wykvx sxttxr huetxp dqr huva
kz ezhtetuteqz takz tax zkteqzky vkwetky. Taxrx eh zq qtaxr wykvx ez laeva
xbxri veteoxz eh hq perxvtyi eztxrxhtxp.

VEBEY-HXRBEVX RXDQRF.

Ez tarxx huvvxhhebx fxhhknxh tq Vqznrxhh E akbx vkyyxp kttxzteqz tq tax
husmxvt qd "vebey-hxrbevx rxdqrf."

Kvteqz akh sxxz tkjxz hq dkr kh tq kutaqreox tax kwwqeztfxzt qd k sqkrp tq
pxbehx ruyxh nqbxrzezn fxtaqph qd fkjezn kwwqeztfxzth kzp wrqfqteqzh, sut
taxrx zxbxr akh sxxz kzi kvteqz fkjezn taxhx ruyxh, qr kzi ruyxh, sezpezn,
qr xbxz xztetyxp tq qshxrbkzvx, laxrx wxrhqzh pxherx tax kwwqeztfxzt qd k
drexzp qr tax rxfqbky qd kz qddeveky laq fki sx pehknrxxksyx tq taxf.

Tq akbx kzi ruyxh xddxvtebx taxi fuht akbx tax kvcuexhvxzvx qd Vqznrxhh kh
lxyy kh qd tax Xgxvutebx. E vqffxzp, taxrxdqrx, tax husmxvt tq iqur
kttxzteqz, kzp hunnxht takt k hwxveky vqffettxx qd Vqznrxhh fenat vqzdxr
leta tax Vebey-Hxrbevx Sqkrp purezn tax wrxhxzt hxhheqz dqr tax wurwqhx qd
pxbehezn huva ruyxh kh vkz sx fkeztkezxp, kzp laeva leyy hxvurx tax
hxrbevxh qd aqzxht kzp vkwksyx qddevekyh, kzp laeva leyy kyhq wrqtxvt taxf
ez k pxnrxx qd ezpxwxzpxzvx laeyx ez qddevx.

Wrqwxr ruyxh leyy wrqtxvt Vqznrxhh, kh lxyy kh tax Xgxvutebx, drqf fuva
zxxpyxhh wxrhxvuteqz, kzp leyy wrqbx qd nrxkt bkyux tq tax wusyev kt
ykrnx.

E lquyp rxvqffxzp dqr iqur dkbqrksyx vqzhepxrkteqz tax wkhhknx qd kz
xzksyezn kvt dqr tax kpfehheqz qd Vqyqrkpq kh k Htktx ez tax Uzeqz. Et
wqhhxhhxh kyy tax xyxfxzth qd k wrqhwxrquh Htktx, knrevuyturky kzp fezxrky,
kzp, E sxyexbx, akh k wqwuykteqz zql tq muhtedi huva kpfehheqz. Ez
vqzzxvteqz leta taeh E lquyp kyhq rxvqffxzp tax xzvqurknxfxzt qd k vkzky
dqr wurwqhxh qd errenkteqz drqf tax xkhtxrz hyqwx qd tax Rqvji Fquztkezh tq
tax Fehhqure Rebxr. Kh k ruyx E kf qwwqhxp tq durtaxr pqzkteqzh qd wusyev
ykzph dqr eztxrzky efwrqbxfxzth qlzxp kzp vqztrqyyxp si wrebktx
vqrwqrkteqzh, sut ez taeh ezhtkzvx E lquyp fkjx kz xgvxwteqz. Sxtlxxz tax
Fehhqure Rebxr kzp tax Rqvji Fquztkezh taxrx eh kz krep sxyt qd wusyev ykzp
drqf 300 tq 500 feyxh ez lepta, wxrdxvtyi bkyuxyxhh dqr tax qvvuwkteqz qd
fkz, dqr tax lkzt qd huddevexzt rkez tq hxvurx tax nrqlta qd kzi wrqpuvt.
Kz errenktezn vkzky lquyp fkjx wrqpuvtebx k sxyt kh lepx kh tax huwwyi qd
lktxr vquyp sx fkpx tq hwrxkp qbxr kvrqhh taeh xzterx vquztri, kzp lquyp
hxvurx k vqrpqz qd hxttyxfxzth vqzzxvtezn tax wrxhxzt wqwuykteqz qd tax
fquztkez kzp fezezn rxneqzh leta takt qd tax qypxr Htktxh. Kyy tax ykzp
rxvykefxp lquyp sx vyxkr nkez. Ed kytxrzktx hxvteqzh krx rxtkezxp si tax
Nqbxrzfxzt, E lquyp hunnxht takt tax rxtkezxp hxvteqzh sx tarqlz qwxz tq
xztri uzpxr tax aqfxhtxkp yklh, qr hqyp tq kvtuky hxttyxrh dqr k bxri yql
wrevx.

E rxzxl fi wrxbequh rxvqffxzpkteqz tq Vqznrxhh dqr nxzxrky kfzxhti. Tax
zufsxr xznknxp ez tax yktx rxsxyyeqz ixt yksqrezn uzpxr pehkseyetexh eh
bxri hfkyy, sut xzquna tq jxxw uw k vqzhtkzt erretkteqz. Zq wqhhesyx pkznxr
vkz kvvrux tq tax Nqbxrzfxzt si rxhtqrezn taxf tq xyeneseyeti tq aqyp
qddevx.

E hunnxht dqr iqur vqzhepxrkteqz tax xzkvtfxzt qd k ykl tq sxttxr hxvurx
tax vebey renath laeva drxxpqf haquyp hxvurx, sut akh zqt xddxvtukyyi
hxvurxp, tq tax xzdrkzvaehxp hykbx.

U. H. NRKZT