Dn drk Pkvudk uvb Rnwpk nq Jkfjkpkvdudxskp:

Xv ubbjkppxvm ah drxjb uvvwuz akppumk dn drk zug-auyxvm cjuvir nq drk
Mnskjvakvd xd xp mjudxqhxvm dn ck uczk dn pdudk drud bwjxvm drk fupd hkuj
pwiikpp rup mkvkjuzzh uddkvbkb drk kqqnjd dn kekiwdk uzz zugp qnwvb wfnv
drk pdudwdk cnnyp. Drk fnzxih rup ckkv vnd dn xvowxjk xvdn drk gxpbna nq
zugp uzjkubh kvuidkb, cwd dn zkujv drkxj pfxjxd uvb xvdkvd uvb dn kvqnjik
drka uiinjbxvmzh.

Drk fupd hkuj rup, wvbkj u gxpk Fjnsxbkvik, ckkv nvk nq mkvkjuz fjnpfkjxdh
dn drk vudxnv. Xd rup, rngkskj, ckkv uddkvbkb gxdr anjk druv wpwuz
irupdxpkakvdp xv drk znpp nq zxqk uvb fjnfkjdh ch pdnja uvb qxjk. Drkpk
bxpupdkjp rusk pkjskb dn iuzz qnjdr drk ckpd kzkakvdp nq rwauv vudwjk xv
nwj inwvdjh uvb dn bkskznf u qjxkvbprxf qnj wp nv drk fujd nq qnjkxmv
vudxnvp grxir mnkp quj dngujb uzzksxudxvm drk bxpdjkppkp niiupxnvkb ch
drkpk iuzuaxdxkp. Drk ckvksnzkvd, grn rusk pn mkvkjnwpzh prujkb drkxj akuvp
gxdr drk sxidxap nq drkpk axpqnjdwvkp, gxzz jkuf drkxj jkgujb xv drk
invpixnwpvkpp nq rusxvm fkjqnjakb u vnczk uid uvb xv jkikxsxvm drk mjudkqwz
druvyp nq akv, gnakv, uvb irxzbjkv grnpk pwqqkjxvmp drkh rusk jkzxkskb.

Drk jkzudxnvp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp gxdr qnjkxmv fngkjp invdxvwk dn ck
qjxkvbzh. Drk hkuj rup ckkv uv kskvdqwz nvk xv gxdvkppxvm dgn mjkud
vudxnvp, pfkuyxvm nvk zuvmwumk uvb rusxvm nvk zxvkumk, pkddzxvm ch fkuikqwz
ujcxdjudxnv bxpfwdkp nq znvm pduvbxvm uvb zxuczk ud uvh dxak dn cjxvm drnpk
vudxnvp xvdn cznnbh uvb inpdzh invqzxid. Uv keuafzk rup drwp ckkv pkd
grxir, xq pwiikppqwz xv xdp qxvuz xppwk, auh ck qnzzngkb ch ndrkj ixsxzxtkb
vudxnvp, uvb qxvuzzh ck drk akuvp nq jkdwjvxvm dn fjnbwidxsk xvbwpdjh
axzzxnvp nq akv vng auxvduxvkb dn pkddzk drk bxpfwdkp nq vudxnvp ch drk
cuhnvkd uvb drk cjnubpxbk.

X djuvpaxd rkjkgxdr u infh nq drk djkudh uzzwbkb dn, grxir rup ckkv
invizwbkb pxvik drk ublnwjvakvd nq Invmjkpp gxdr Rkj Cjxduvvxi Aulkpdh, uvb
u infh nq drk fjndninzp nq drk invqkjkvikp nq drk inaaxppxnvkjp ch grna xd
gup vkmndxudkb. Drxp djkudh fjnsxbkp akdrnbp qnj ublwpdxvm drk owkpdxnvp
fkvbxvm ckdgkkv drk dgn vudxnvp.

Sujxnwp owkpdxnvp ujk dn ck ublwpdkb ch ujcxdjudxnv. X jkinaakvb Invmjkpp
ud uv kujzh buh dn auyk drk vkikppujh fjnsxpxnv qnj drk djxcwvuz ud Mkvksu
uvb qnj drk pkskjuz inaaxppxnvkjp nv drk fujd nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp iuzzkb
qnj ch drk djkudh.

Rxp Aulkpdh drk Yxvm nq Xduzh, drk Fjkpxbkvd nq drk Pgxpp Invqkbkjudxnv,
uvb Rxp Aulkpdh drk Kafkjnj nq Cjutxz rusk kuir invpkvdkb, nv drk lnxvd
jkowkpd nq drk dgn fngkjp, dn vuak uv ujcxdkj qnj drk djxcwvuz ud Mkvksu. X
rusk iuwpkb ah druvyp dn ck pwxduczh kefjkppkb qnj drk jkubxvkpp gxdr grxir
drk lnxvd jkowkpd rup ckkv inafzxkb gxdr, ch drk uffnxvdakvd nq mkvdzkakv
nq kaxvkvik uvb zkujvxvm dn drkpk xafnjduvd fnpxdxnvp.

Rxp Aulkpdh drk Kafkjnj nq Mkjauvh rup ckkv fzkupkb dn inafzh gxdr drk
lnxvd jkowkpd nq drk dgn Mnskjvakvdp, uvb rup invpkvdkb dn uid up drk
ujcxdjudnj nq drk bxpfwdkb gudkj cnwvbujh ckdgkkv drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp uvb
Mjkud Cjxduxv.

Drk invdjuidxvm fujdxkp xv drk djkudh rusk wvbkjduykv dn jkmujb up ckdgkkv
drkapkzskp ikjduxv fjxvixfzkp nq fwczxi zug, qnj grxir drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp
rusk invdkvbkb qjna drk inaakvikakvd nq drkxj rxpdnjh. Drkh rusk uzpn
umjkkb dn cjxvm drnpk fjxvixfzkp dn drk yvngzkbmk nq drk ndrkj aujxdxak
fngkjp uvb dn xvsxdk drka dn uiikbk dn drka. Vkmndxudxnvp ujk mnxvm nv up
dn drk qnja nq drk vndk ch grxir drk xvsxdudxnv xp dn ck kedkvbkb dn drk
ndrkj fngkjp.

X jkinaakvb drk zkmxpzudxnv vkikppujh nv drk fujd nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp dn
cjxvm xvdn nfkjudxnv drk ujdxizkp nq drk djkudh jkzudxvm dn drk qxprkjxkp
uvb dn drk ndrkj auddkjp dnwirxvm drk jkzudxnvp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp dngujb
drk Cjxdxpr Vnjdr Uakjxiuv fnppkppxnvp, dn ckinak nfkjudxsk pn pnnv up drk
fjnfkj zkmxpzudxnv pruzz ck rub nv drk fujd nq Mjkud Cjxduxv uvb xdp
fnppkppxnvp. Xd xp awir dn ck bkpxjkb drud drxp zkmxpzudxnv auh ckinak
nfkjudxsk ckqnjk drk qxprkjakv nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp ckmxv dn auyk drkxj
ujjuvmkakvdp qnj drk inaxvm pkupnv.

X rusk ubbjkppkb u inaawvxiudxnv, nq grxir u infh xp djuvpaxddkb rkjkgxdr,
dn drk mnskjvnjp nq Vkg Hnjy, Fkvvphzsuvxu, Nrxn, Xvbxuvu, Axirxmuv,
Xzzxvnxp, uvb Gxpinvpxv, wjmxvm wfnv drk mnskjvakvdp nq drnpk Pdudkp,
jkpfkidxskzh, drk vkikppujh uidxnv nv drkxj fujd dn iujjh xvdn kqqkid drk
nclkid nq drk ujdxizk nq drk djkudh grxir invdkafzudkp drk wpk nq drk
iuvuzp, nv kxdrkj pxbk, invvkidkb gxdr drk vusxmudxnv nq drk zuykp uvb
jxskjp qnjaxvm drk cnwvbujh, nv dkjap nq kowuzxdh, ch drk xvrucxduvdp nq
cndr inwvdjxkp. Xd xp rnfkb drud drk xafnjduvik nq drk nclkid uvb drk
ckvkqxdp dn qzng drkjkqjna gxzz pkiwjk drk pfkkbh uffjnsuz uvb zkmxpzudxsk
puvidxnv nq drk Pdudkp invikjvkb.

X jkvkg drk jkinaakvbudxnv qnj uv uffjnfjxudxnv qnj bkdkjaxvxvm drk djwk
fnpxdxnv nq drk qnjdh-vxvdr fujuzzkz nq zudxdwbk grkjk xd qnjap drk
cnwvbujh ckdgkkv drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp uvb drk Cjxdxpr Vnjdr Uakjxiuv
fnppkppxnvp, ckdgkkv drk Zuyk nq drk Gnnbp uvb drk pwaaxd nq drk Jniyh
Anwvduxvp. Drk kujzh uidxnv nq Invmjkpp nv drxp jkinaakvbudxnv gnwzb fwd xd
xv drk fngkj nq drk Guj Bkfujdakvd dn fzuik u qnjik xv drk qxkzb bwjxvm drk
vked pwaakj.

Drk jkpwafdxnv nq bxfznaudxi jkzudxnvp ckdgkkv Qjuvik uvb Mkjauvh rup
kvuczkb ak dn mxsk bxjkidxnvp qnj drk gxdrbjuguz nq drk fjndkidxnv kedkvbkb
dn Mkjauvp xv Qjuvik ch drk bxfznaudxi uvb invpwzuj jkfjkpkvdudxskp nq drk
Wvxdkb Pdudkp xv drud inwvdjh. Xd xp lwpd dn ubb drud drk bkzxiudk bwdh nq
drxp fjndkidxnv rup ckkv fkjqnjakb ch drk axvxpdkj uvb drk invpwz-mkvkjuz
ud Fujxp, uvb drk sujxnwp invpwzp xv Qjuvik wvbkj drk pwfkjsxpxnv nq drk
zuddkj, gxdr mjkud yxvbvkpp up gkzz up gxdr fjwbkvik uvb duid. Drkxj inwjpk
rup jkikxskb drk inaakvbudxnv nq drk Mkjauv Mnskjvakvd, uvb rup gnwvbkb vn
pwpikfdxcxzxdh nq drk Qjkvir.

Drk Mnskjvakvd nq drk Kafkjnj nq Mkjauvh invdxvwkp dn auvxqkpd u qjxkvbzh
qkkzxvm dngujb drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp, uvb u bkpxjk dn rujanvxtk gxdr drk
anbkjudk uvb lwpd fnzxih grxir drxp Mnskjvakvd auxvduxvp xv xdp jkzudxnvp
gxdr Upxudxi fngkjp, up gkzz up gxdr drk Pnwdr Uakjxiuv Jkfwczxip. X rusk
mxskv uppwjuvikp drud drk qjxkvbzh qkkzxvmp nq drud Mnskjvakvd ujk qwzzh
prujkb ch drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp.

Drk judxqxiudxnvp nq drk invpwzuj uvb vudwjuzxtudxnv invskvdxnvp gxdr drk
Uwpdjn-Rwvmujxuv Kafxjk rusk ckkv keiruvmkb.

X rusk ckkv nqqxixuzzh xvqnjakb nq drk uvvkeudxnv nq drk Pdudkp nq drk
Irwjir dn drk Yxvmbna nq Xduzh, uvb drk jkansuz nq drk iufxduz nq drud
Yxvmbna dn Jnak. Xv invqnjaxdh gxdr drk kpduczxprkb fnzxih nq drk Wvxdkb
Pdudkp, X rusk jkinmvxtkb drxp iruvmk. Drk judxqxiudxnvp nq drk vkg djkudh
nq inaakjik ckdgkkv drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp uvb Xduzh rusk ckkv keiruvmkb. Drk
dgn fngkjp rusk umjkkb xv drxp djkudh drud fjxsudk fjnfkjdh ud pku pruzz ck
kekafd qjna iufdwjk xv iupk nq guj ckdgkkv drk dgn fngkjp. Drk Wvxdkb
Pdudkp rusk pfujkb vn nffnjdwvxdh nq xvinjfnjudxvm drxp jwzk xvdn drk
nczxmudxnv nq vudxnvp.

Drk Qnjdh-qxjpd Invmjkpp, ud xdp drxjb pkppxnv, aubk uv uffjnfjxudxnv qnj
drk njmuvxtudxnv nq u axekb inaaxppxnv qnj ublwbxiudxvm wfnv drk izuxap nq
ixdxtkvp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp umuxvpd Pfuxv mjngxvm nwd nq drk xvpwjjkidxnv
xv Iwcu. Drud inaaxppxnv rup pxvik ckkv njmuvxtkb. X djuvpaxd rkjkgxdr drk
injjkpfnvbkvik jkzudxvm dn xdp qnjaudxnv uvb xdp lwjxpbxidxnv. Xd xp dn ck
rnfkb drud drxp inaaxppxnv gxzz uqqnjb drk izuxauvdp u inafzkdk jkakbh qnj
drkxj xvlwjxkp.

Xd rup ckkv aubk drk umjkkuczk bwdh nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp dn fjkpxbk nskj u
invqkjkvik ud Guprxvmdnv ckdgkkv drk fzkvxfndkvdxujxkp nq Pfuxv uvb drk
uzzxkb Pnwdr Uakjxiuv Jkfwczxip, grxir rup jkpwzdkb xv uv ujaxpdxik, gxdr
drk jkupnvuczk uppwjuvik nq u fkjauvkvd fkuik.

Drk xvdxaudk qjxkvbzh jkzudxnvp grxir rusk pn znvm kexpdkb ckdgkkv drk
Wvxdkb Pdudkp uvb Jwppxu invdxvwk wvbxpdwjckb. Drk sxpxd nq drk drxjb pnv
nq drk Kafkjnj xp u fjnnq drud drkjk xp vn bkpxjk nv drk fujd nq rxp
Mnskjvakvd dn bxaxvxpr drk injbxuzxdh nq drnpk jkzudxnvp. Drk rnpfxduczk
jkikfdxnv grxir rup ckkv mxskv dn drk Mjuvb Bwyk xp u fjnnq drud nv nwj
pxbk gk prujk drk gxprkp nq drud Mnskjvakvd. Drk xvkeiwpuczk inwjpk nq drk
Jwppxuv axvxpdkj ud Guprxvmdnv jkvbkjkb xd vkikppujh dn upy rxp jkiuzz uvb
dn bkizxvk dn znvmkj jkikxsk drud qwvidxnvujh up u bxfznaudxi
jkfjkpkvdudxsk. Xd gup xafnppxczk, gxdr pkzq-jkpfkid nj gxdr u lwpd jkmujb
dn drk bxmvxdh nq drk inwvdjh, dn fkjaxd Aj. Iuduiuth dn invdxvwk dn rnzb
xvdkjinwjpk gxdr drxp Mnskjvakvd uqdkj rxp fkjpnvuz ucwpk nq Mnskjvakvd
nqqxixuzp, uvb bwjxvm rxp fkjpxpdkvd xvdkjqkjkvikp, drjnwmr sujxnwp akuvp,
gxdr drk jkzudxnvp ckdgkkv drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp uvb ndrkj fngkjp. Xv
uiinjbuvik gxdr ah gxprkp, drxp Mnskjvakvd rup ckkv jkzxkskb nq qwjdrkj
xvdkjinwjpk gxdr Aj. Iuduiuth, uvb drk auvumkakvd nq drk uqquxjp nq drk
xafkjxuz zkmudxnv rup fuppkb xvdn drk ruvbp nq u mkvdzkauv kvdxjkzh
wvnclkidxnvuczk.

Gxdr Lufuv gk invdxvwk dn auxvduxv xvdxaudk jkzudxnvp. Drk iucxvkd nq drk
Axyubn rup pxvik drk iznpk nq drk zupd pkppxnv nq Invmjkpp pkzkidkb
ixdxtkvp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp dn pkjsk xv nqqxikp nq xafnjduvik xv pkskjuz
bkfujdakvdp nq Mnskjvakvd. X rusk jkupnv dn drxvy drud drxp pkzkidxnv xp
bwk dn uv uffjkixudxnv nq drk bxpxvdkjkpdkbvkpp nq drk fnzxih grxir drk
Wvxdkb Pdudkp rusk fwjpwkb dngujb Lufuv. Xd xp nwj bkpxjk dn invdxvwk dn
auxvduxv drxp bxpxvdkjkpdkb uvb lwpd fnzxih gxdr Irxvu up gkzz up Lufuv.
Drk injjkpfnvbkvik djuvpaxddkb rkjkgxdr prngp drud drkjk xp vn bxpfnpxdxnv
nv drk fujd nq drxp Mnskjvakvd dn pgkjsk qjna xdp kpduczxprkb inwjpk.

Fjnafdkb ch u bkpxjk dn fwd uv kvb dn drk cujcujnwp djkudakvd nq nwj
prxfgjkiykb puxznjp nv drk Ynjkuv inupd, X xvpdjwidkb nwj axvxpdkj ud
Fkyxvm dn kvbkusnj dn invizwbk u invskvdxnv gxdr Ynjku qnj pkiwjxvm drk
puqkdh uvb rwauvk djkudakvd nq pwir aujxvkjp.

Ubaxjuz Jnbmkjp gup xvpdjwidkb dn uiinafuvh rxa gxdr u pwqqxixkvd qnjik dn
fjndkid rxa xv iupk nq vkkb.

U pauzz pwjskhxvm fujdh pkvd nwd, nv jkuirxvm drk inupd gup djkuirkjnwpzh
udduiykb ud u bxpubsuvdumk. Uafzk nffnjdwvxdh gup mxskv qnj kefzuvudxnv uvb
ufnznmh qnj drk xvpwzd. Vkxdrkj iuak. U qnjik gup drkv zuvbkb. Uqdkj uv
ujbwnwp aujir nskj u jwmmkb uvb bxqqxiwzd inwvdjh, drk qnjdp qjna grxir drk
nwdjumkp rub ckkv inaaxddkb gkjk jkbwikb ch u muzzuvd uppuwzd uvb gkjk
bkpdjnhkb. Rusxvm drwp fwvxprkb drk ijxaxvuzp, uvb rusxvm sxvbxiudkb drk
rnvnj nq drk qzum, drk kefkbxdxnv jkdwjvkb, qxvbxvm xd xafjuidxiuczk wvbkj
drk ixjiwapduvikp dn invizwbk drk bkpxjkb invskvdxnv. X jkpfkidqwzzh jkqkj
dn drk injjkpfnvbkvik jkzudxvm drkjkdn, rkjkgxdr pwcaxddkb, uvb zkusk drk
pwclkid qnj pwir uidxnv up Invmjkpp auh pkk qxd dn duyk.

Drk Jkfwczxi nq Akexin rup vnd hkd jkfkuzkb drk skjh nclkidxnvuczk zugp
kpduczxprxvm grud xp yvngv up drk "qjkk tnvk" nv drk qjnvdxkj nq drk Wvxdkb
Pdudkp. Xd xp rnfkb drud drxp auh hkd ck bnvk, uvb uzpn drud anjk pdjxvmkvd
akupwjkp auh ck duykv ch drud Jkfwczxi qnj jkpdjuxvxvm zugzkpp fkjpnvp nv
xdp qjnvdxkjp. X rnfk drud Akexin ch xdp ngv uidxnv gxzz pnnv jkzxksk drxp
Mnskjvakvd nq drk bxqqxiwzdxkp kefkjxkvikb qjna drkpk iuwpkp.

Nwj jkzudxnvp gxdr drk sujxnwp Jkfwczxip nq Ikvdjuz uvb Pnwdr Uakjxiu
invdxvwk, gxdr nvk keikfdxnv, dn ck injbxuz uvb qjxkvbzh.

X jkinaakvb pnak uidxnv ch Invmjkpp jkmujbxvm drk nskjbwk xvpduzzakvdp
wvbkj drk ugujb nq drk Skvktwkzuv Izuxap Inaaxppxnv nq 1866. Drk xvdkjvuz
bxppkvpxnvp nq drxp Mnskjvakvd fjkpkvd vn lwpdxqxiudxnv qnj drk ucpkvik nq
kqqnjd dn akkd drkxj pnzkav djkudh nczxmudxnvp.

Drk judxqxiudxnv nq uv kedjubxdxnv djkudh gxdr Vxiujumwu rup ckkv
keiruvmkb.

Xd xp u pwclkid qnj invmjudwzudxnv drud drk mjkud Kafxjk nq Cjutxz rup
duykv drk xvxdxudnjh pdkf dngujb drk ucnzxdxnv nq pzuskjh. Nwj jkzudxnvp
gxdr drud Kafxjk, uzguhp injbxuz, gxzz vudwjuzzh ck aubk anjk pn ch drxp
uid. Xd xp vnd dnn awir dn rnfk drud drk Mnskjvakvd nq Cjutxz auh rkjkuqdkj
qxvb xd qnj xdp xvdkjkpd, up gkzz up xvdjxvpxiuzzh jxmrd, dn ubsuvik dngujb
kvdxjk kauvixfudxnv anjk jufxbzh druv drk fjkpkvd uid invdkafzudkp.

Drk djwk fjnpfkjxdh uvb mjkudvkpp nq u vudxnv xp dn ck qnwvb xv drk
kzksudxnv uvb kbwiudxnv nq xdp zucnjkjp.

Xd xp u pwclkid qnj jkmjkd drud drk jkqnjap xv drxp bxjkidxnv grxir gkjk
snzwvdujxzh fjnaxpkb ch drk pdudkpakv nq Pfuxv rusk vnd ckkv iujjxkb nwd xv
xdp Gkpd Xvbxu inznvxkp. Drk zugp uvb jkmwzudxnvp qnj drk uffujkvd
ucnzxdxnv nq pzuskjh xv Iwcu uvb Fnjdn Jxin zkusk anpd nq drk zucnjkjp xv
cnvbumk, gxdr vn rnfk nq jkzkupk wvdxz drkxj zxskp ckinak u cwjbkv dn drkxj
kafznhkjp.

X bkpxjk dn bxjkid hnwj uddkvdxnv dn drk quid drud ixdxtkvp nq drk Wvxdkb
Pdudkp, nj fkjpnvp izuxaxvm dn ck ixdxtkvp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp, ujk zujmk
rnzbkjp xv qnjkxmv zuvbp nq drxp pfkixkp nq fjnfkjdh, qnjcxbbkv ch drk
qwvbuakvduz zug nq drkxj uzzkmkb inwvdjh. X jkinaakvb dn Invmjkpp dn
fjnsxbk ch pdjxvmkvd zkmxpzudxnv u pwxduczk jkakbh umuxvpd drk rnzbxvm,
ngvxvm nj bkuzxvm xv pzuskp, nj ckxvm xvdkjkpdkb xv pzusk fjnfkjdh, xv
qnjkxmv zuvbp, kxdrkj up ngvkjp, rxjkjp, nj anjdmumnjp, ch ixdxtkvp nq drk
Wvxdkb Pdudkp.

Xd xp dn ck jkmjkddkb drud drk bxpdwjckb invbxdxnv nq drk xpzuvb nq Iwcu
invdxvwkp dn ck u pnwjik nq uvvnhuvik uvb nq uvexkdh. Drk kexpdkvik nq u
fjndjuidkb pdjwmmzk xv pwir iznpk fjnexaxdh dn nwj ngv dkjjxdnjh, gxdrnwd
uffujkvd fjnpfkid nq uv kujzh dkjaxvudxnv, iuv vnd ck ndrkj druv uv nclkid
nq invikjv dn u fknfzk grn, grxzk ucpduxvxvm qjna xvdkjqkjkvik xv drk
uqquxjp nq ndrkj fngkjp, vudwjuzzh bkpxjk dn pkk kskjh inwvdjh xv drk
wvbxpdwjckb kvlnhakvd nq fkuik, zxckjdh, uvb drk czkppxvmp nq qjkk
xvpdxdwdxnvp.

Nwj vusuz inaauvbkjp xv Iwcuv gudkjp rusk ckkv xvpdjwidkb, xv iupk xd
prnwzb ckinak vkikppujh, dn pfujk vn kqqnjd dn fjndkid drk zxskp uvb
fjnfkjdh nq cnvu qxbk Uakjxiuv ixdxtkvp uvb dn auxvduxv drk bxmvxdh nq drk
qzum.

Xd xp rnfkb drud uzz fkvbxvm owkpdxnvp gxdr Pfuxv mjngxvm nwd nq drk
uqquxjp xv Iwcu auh ck ublwpdkb xv drk pfxjxd nq fkuik uvb invixzxudxnv
grxir rup rxdrkjdn mwxbkb drk dgn fngkjp xv drkxj djkudakvd nq pwir
owkpdxnvp.

Dn mxsk xafnjduvik dn uvb dn ubb dn drk kqqxixkvih nq nwj bxfznaudxi
jkzudxnvp gxdr Lufuv uvb Irxvu, uvb dn qwjdrkj uxb xv jkduxvxvm drk mnnb
nfxvxnv nq drnpk fknfzkp, uvb dn pkiwjk dn drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp xdp prujk nq
drk inaakjik bkpdxvkb dn qzng ckdgkkv drnpk vudxnvp uvb drk cuzuvik nq drk
inaakjixuz gnjzb, X kujvkpdzh jkinaakvb drud uv uffjnfjxudxnv ck aubk dn
pwffnjd ud zkupd qnwj Uakjxiuv hnwdrp xv kuir nq drnpk inwvdjxkp, dn pkjsk
up u fujd nq drk nqqxixuz quaxzh nq nwj axvxpdkjp drkjk. Nwj
jkfjkpkvdudxskp gnwzb vnd kskv drkv ck fzuikb wfnv uv kowuzxdh gxdr drk
jkfjkpkvdudxskp nq Mjkud Cjxduxv uvb nq pnak ndrkj fngkjp. Up vng pxdwudkb,
nwj jkfjkpkvdudxskp xv Lufuv uvb Irxvu rusk dn bkfkvb qnj xvdkjfjkdkjp uvb
djuvpzudnjp wfnv vudxskp nq drnpk inwvdjxkp grn yvng nwj zuvmwumk
xafkjqkidzh, nj fjniwjk qnj drk niiupxnv drk pkjsxikp nq kafznhkkp xv
qnjkxmv cwpxvkpp rnwpkp nj drk xvdkjfjkdkjp dn ndrkj qnjkxmv axvxpdkjp.

X gnwzb uzpn jkinaakvb zxckjuz akupwjkp qnj drk fwjfnpk nq pwffnjdxvm drk
Uakjxiuv zxvkp nq pdkuakjp vng fzhxvm ckdgkkv Puv Qjuvixpin uvb Lufuv uvb
Irxvu, uvb drk Uwpdjuzxuv zxvk--uzanpd nwj nvzh jkauxvxvm zxvkp nq nikuv
pdkuakjp--uvb nq xvijkupxvm drkxj pkjsxikp.

Drk vudxnvuz bkcd rup ckkv jkbwikb dn drk kedkvd nq $86,057, 126.80 bwjxvm
drk hkuj, uvb ch drk vkmndxudxnv nq vudxnvuz cnvbp ud u zngkj judk nq
xvdkjkpd drk xvdkjkpd nv drk fwczxi bkcd rup ckkv pn quj bxaxvxprkb drud
vng drk pwa dn ck juxpkb qnj drk xvdkjkpd uiinwvd xp vkujzh $17,000,000
zkpp druv nv drk 1pd nq Aujir, 1869. Xd gup rxmrzh bkpxjuczk drud drxp
jufxb bxaxvwdxnv prnwzb duyk fzuik, cndr dn pdjkvmdrkv drk ijkbxd nq drk
inwvdjh uvb dn invsxvik xdp ixdxtkvp nq drkxj kvdxjk ucxzxdh dn akkd kskjh
bnzzuj nq zxucxzxdh gxdrnwd cuvyjwfdxvm drka. Cwd xv sxkg nq drk
uiinafzxprakvd nq drkpk bkpxjuczk kvbp: nq drk jufxb bkskznfakvd nq drk
jkpnwjikp nq drk inwvdjh; xdp xvijkupxvm ucxzxdh dn akkd zujmk bkauvbp, uvb
drk uanwvd uzjkubh fuxb, xd xp vnd bkpxjuczk drud drk fjkpkvd jkpnwjikp nq
drk inwvdjh prnwzb invdxvwk dn ck duekb xv njbkj dn invdxvwk drxp jufxb
fuhakvd. X drkjkqnjk jkinaakvb u anbxqxiudxnv nq cndr drk dujxqq uvb
xvdkjvuz-due zug. X jkinaakvb drud uzz duekp qjna xvdkjvuz pnwjikp ck
ucnzxprkb, keikfd drnpk inzzkidkb qjna pfxjxdwnwp, sxvnwp, uvb auzd
zxownjp, dncuiin xv xdp sujxnwp qnjap, uvb qjna pduafp.

Xv jkublwpdxvm drk dujxqq X pwmmkpd drud u iujkqwz kpdxaudk ck aubk nq drk
uanwvd nq pwjfzwp jkskvwk inzzkidkb wvbkj drk fjkpkvd zugp, uqdkj fjnsxbxvm
qnj drk iwjjkvd kefkvpkp nq drk Mnskjvakvd, drk xvdkjkpd inwvd, uvb u
pxvyxvm qwvb, uvb drud drxp pwjfzwp ck jkbwikb xv pwir u auvvkj up dn
uqqnjb drk mjkudkpd jkzxkq dn drk mjkudkpd vwackj. Drkjk ujk auvh ujdxizkp
vnd fjnbwikb ud rnak, cwd grxir kvdkj zujmkzh xvdn mkvkjuz invpwafdxnv
drjnwmr ujdxizkp grxir ujk auvwquidwjkb ud rnak, pwir up akbxixvkp
inafnwvbkb, kdi., kdi., qjna grxir skjh zxddzk jkskvwk xp bkjxskb, cwd
grxir kvdkj xvdn mkvkjuz wpk. Uzz pwir ujdxizkp X jkinaakvb dn ck fzuikb nv
drk "qjkk zxpd." Prnwzb u qwjdrkj jkbwidxnv fjnsk ubsxpuczk, X gnwzb drkv
jkinaakvb drud xd ck aubk wfnv drnpk ujdxizkp grxir iuv ckpd ckuj xd
gxdrnwd bxpdwjcxvm rnak fjnbwidxnv nj jkbwixvm drk gumkp nq Uakjxiuv
zucnj.

X rusk vnd kvdkjkb xvdn qxmwjkp, ckiuwpk dn bn pn gnwzb ck dn jkfkud grud
gxzz ck zuxb ckqnjk hnw xv drk jkfnjd nq drk Pkijkdujh nq drk Djkupwjh. Drk
fjkpkvd zugp qnj inzzkidxvm jkskvwk fuh inzzkidnjp nq iwpdnap pauzz
puzujxkp, cwd fjnsxbk qnj anxkdxkp (prujkp xv uzz pkxtwjkp), grxir, ud
fjxvixfuz fnjdp nq kvdjh fujdxiwzujzh, juxpk drk inafkvpudxnv nq drnpk
nqqxixuzp dn u zujmk pwa. Xd rup uzguhp pkkakb dn ak up xq drxp phpdka awpd
ud dxakp gnjy fkjvxixnwpzh. Xd rnzbp nwd uv xvbwikakvd dn bxprnvkpd akv,
prnwzb pwir mkd fnppkppxnv nq drnpk nqqxikp, dn ck zue xv drkxj pijwdxvh nq
mnnbp kvdkjkb, dn kvuczk drka qxvuzzh dn auyk zujmk pkxtwjkp. Hnwj
uddkvdxnv xp jkpfkidqwzzh xvsxdkb dn drxp pwclkid.

Invdxvwkb qzwidwudxnvp xv drk suzwk nq mnzb, up inafujkb gxdr drk vudxnvuz
iwjjkvih, rup u anpd buaumxvm kqqkid wfnv drk xvijkupk uvb bkskznfakvd nq
drk inwvdjh, xv ykkfxvm wf fjxikp nq uzz ujdxizkp vkikppujh xv kskjhbuh
zxqk. Xd qnpdkjp u pfxjxd nq muaczxvm, fjklwbxixuz uzxyk dn vudxnvuz anjuzp
uvb drk vudxnvuz qxvuvikp. Xq drk owkpdxnv iuv ck akd up dn rng dn mkd u
qxekb suzwk dn nwj iwjjkvih, drud suzwk invpduvdzh uvb wvxqnjazh
uffjnuirxvm fuj gxdr pfkixk, u skjh bkpxjuczk nclkid gxzz ck muxvkb.

Qnj drk nfkjudxnvp nq drk Ujah xv drk fupd hkuj, drk kefkvpk nq auxvduxvxvm
xd, drk kpdxaudk qnj drk kvpwxvm hkuj, uvb qnj invdxvwxvm pkuinupd uvb
ndrkj xafjnskakvdp invbwidkb wvbkj drk pwfkjsxpxnv nq drk Guj Bkfujdakvd, X
jkqkj hnw dn drk uiinafuvhxvm jkfnjd nq drk Pkijkdujh nq Guj.

X iuzz hnwj uddkvdxnv dn drk fjnsxpxnvp nq drk uid nq Invmjkpp uffjnskb
Aujir 3, 1869, grxir bxpinvdxvwkp fjnandxnvp xv drk pduqq injfp nq drk Ujah
wvdxz fjnsxbkb qnj ch zug. X jkinaakvb drud drk vwackj nq nqqxikjp xv kuir
mjubk xv drk pduqq injfp ck qxekb, uvb drud grkvkskj drk vwackj xv uvh nvk
mjubk quzzp ckzng drk vwackj pn qxekb, drud drk suiuvih auh ck qxzzkb ch
fjnandxnv qjna drk mjubk ckzng. X uzpn jkinaakvb drud grkv drk nqqxik nq
irxkq nq u injfp ckinakp suiuvd drk fzuik auh ck qxzzkb ch pkzkidxnv qjna
drk injfp xv grxir drk suiuvih kexpdp.

Drk jkfnjd nq drk Pkijkdujh nq drk Vush prngp uv xafjnskakvd xv drk vwackj
uvb kqqxixkvih nq drk vusuz qnjik, gxdrnwd audkjxuz xvijkupk xv drk kefkvpk
nq pwffnjdxvm xd. Drxp xp bwk dn drk fnzxih grxir rup ckkv ubnfdkb, uvb xp
ckxvm kedkvbkb up qupd up nwj audkjxuz gxzz ubaxd, nq wpxvm pauzzkj skppkzp
up ijwxpkjp nv drk pkskjuz pdudxnvp. Ch drxp akuvp gk rusk ckkv kvuczkb dn
niiwfh ud nvik u zujmkj kedkvd nq ijwxpxvm mjnwvbp, dn sxpxd anjk
qjkowkvdzh drk fnjdp grkjk drk fjkpkvik nq nwj qzum xp bkpxjuczk, uvb
mkvkjuzzh dn bxpirujmk anjk kqqxixkvdzh drk uffjnfjxudk bwdxkp nq drk Vush
xv dxak nq fkuik, gxdrnwd keikkbxvm drk vwackj nq akv nj drk kefkvbxdwjk
uwdrnjxtkb ch zug.

Bwjxvm drk fupd hkuj drk Vush rup, xv ubbxdxnv dn xdp jkmwzuj pkjsxik,
pwffzxkb drk akv uvb nqqxikjp qnj drk skppkzp nq drk Inupd Pwjskh, uvb rup
inafzkdkb drk pwjskhp uwdrnjxtkb ch Invmjkpp nq drk xpdrawpkp nq Bujxkv uvb
Dkrwuvdkfki, uvb, wvbkj zxyk uwdrnjxdh, rup pkvd nwd uv kefkbxdxnv,
inafzkdkzh qwjvxprkb uvb kowxffkb, dn kefznjk drk wvyvngv nikuv nq drk
vnjdr.

Drk pwmmkpdxnvp nq drk jkfnjd up dn drk vkikppxdh qnj xvijkupxvm uvb
xafjnsxvm drk audkjxkz nq drk Vush, uvb drk fzuv jkinaakvbkb qnj jkbwixvm
drk fkjpnvvkz nq drk pkjsxik dn u fkuik pduvbujb, ch drk mjubwuz ucnzxdxnv
nq ikjduxv mjubkp nq nqqxikjp, drk jkbwidxnv nq ndrkjp, uvb drk kafznhakvd
nq pnak xv drk pkjsxik nq drk inaakjixuz aujxvk, ujk gkzz invpxbkjkb uvb
bkpkjsk drk drnwmrdqwz uddkvdxnv nq Invmjkpp.

X uzpn jkinaakvb drud uzz fjnandxnvp xv drk Vush ucnsk drk juvy nq iufduxv
ck ch pkzkidxnv xvpdkub nq ch pkvxnjxdh. Drxp inwjpk gxzz pkiwjk xv drk
rxmrkj mjubkp mjkudkj kqqxixkvih uvb rnzb nwd uv xvikvdxsk dn hnwvm
nqqxikjp dn xafjnsk drkapkzskp xv drk yvngzkbmk nq drkxj fjnqkppxnv.

Drk fjkpkvd inpd nq auxvduxvxvm drk Vush, xdp inpd inafujkb gxdr drud nq
drk fjkikbxvm hkuj, uvb drk kpdxaudkp qnj drk kvpwxvm hkuj ujk invduxvkb xv
drk uiinafuvhxvm jkfnjd nq drk Pkijkdujh nq drk Vush.

Drk kvzujmkb jkikxfdp nq drk Fnpd-Nqqxik Bkfujdakvd, up prngv ch drk
uiinafuvhxvm jkfnjd nq drk Fnpdaupdkj-Mkvkjuz, kerxcxd u mjudxqhxvm
xvijkupk xv drud cjuvir nq drk fwczxi pkjsxik. Xd xp drk xvbke nq drk
mjngdr nq kbwiudxnv uvb nq drk fjnpfkjxdh nq drk fknfzk, dgn kzkakvdp
rxmrzh invbwixsk dn drk sxmnj uvb pducxzxdh nq jkfwczxip. Gxdr u supd
dkjjxdnjh zxyk nwjp, awir nq xd pfujpkzh fnfwzudkb, cwd uzz jkowxjxvm drk
pkjsxikp nq drk auxz, xd xp vnd ud fjkpkvd dn ck kefkidkb drud drxp
Bkfujdakvd iuv ck aubk pkzq-pwpduxvxvm. Cwd u mjubwuz uffjnuir dn drxp kvb
qjna hkuj dn hkuj xp invqxbkvdzh jkzxkb nv, uvb drk buh xp vnd quj bxpduvd
grkv drk Fnpd-Nqqxik Bkfujdakvd nq drk Mnskjvakvd gxzz fjnsk u awir mjkudkj
czkppxvm dn drk grnzk fknfzk druv xd xp vng.

Drk pwmmkpdxnvp nq drk Fnpdaupdkj-Mkvkjuz qnj xafjnskakvdp xv drk
Bkfujdakvd fjkpxbkb nskj ch rxa ujk kujvkpdzh jkinaakvbkb dn hnw, pfkixuz
uddkvdxnv. Kpfkixuzzh bn X jkinaakvb qusnjuczk invpxbkjudxnv nq drk fzuv
qnj wvxdxvm drk dkzkmjufrxi phpdka nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp gxdr drk fnpduz
phpdka. Xd xp ckzxkskb drud ch pwir u inwjpk drk inpd nq dkzkmjufrxvm inwzb
ck awir jkbwikb, uvb drk pkjsxik up gkzz, xq vnd ckddkj, jkvbkjkb. Xd gnwzb
pkiwjk drk qwjdrkj ubsuvdumk nq kedkvbxvm drk dkzkmjufr drjnwmr fnjdxnvp nq
drk inwvdjh grkjk fjxsudk kvdkjfjxpk gxzz vnd invpdjwid xd. Inaakjik,
djubk, uvb, ucnsk uzz, drk kqqnjdp dn cjxvm u fknfzk gxbkzh pkfujudkb xvdn
u inaawvxdh nq xvdkjkpd ujk uzguhp ckvkqxdkb ch u jufxb xvdkjinaawvxiudxnv.
Kbwiudxnv, drk mjnwvbgnjy nq jkfwczxiuv xvpdxdwdxnvp, xp kvinwjumkb ch
xvijkupxvm drk quixzxdxkp dn mudrkj pfkkbh vkgp qjna uzz fujdp nq drk
inwvdjh. Drk bkpxjk dn jkuf drk ckvkqxd nq pwir xafjnskakvdp gxzz pdxawzudk
kbwiudxnv. X jkqkj hnw dn drk jkfnjd nq drk Fnpdaupdkj-Mkvkjuz qnj qwzz
bkduxzp nq drk nfkjudxnvp nq zupd hkuj uvb qnj inafujudxsk pdudkakvdp nq
jkpwzdp gxdr qnjakj hkujp.

Drkjk rup ckkv xafnpkb wfnv drk kekiwdxsk cjuvir nq drk Mnskjvakvd drk
kekiwdxnv nq drk uid nq Invmjkpp uffjnskb Ufjxz 20, 1871, uvb inaanvzh
yvngv up drk Ywyzwe zug, xv u fnjdxnv nq drk Pdudk nq Pnwdr Iujnzxvu. Drk
vkikppxdh nq drk inwjpk fwjpwkb gxzz ck bkanvpdjudkb ch drk jkfnjd nq drk
Inaaxddkk dn Xvskpdxmudk Pnwdrkjv Nwdjumkp. Wvbkj drk fjnsxpxnvp nq drk
ucnsk uid X xppwkb u fjnizuaudxnv iuzzxvm drk uddkvdxnv nq drk fknfzk nq
drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp dn drk puak, uvb bkizujxvm ah jkzwiduvik dn kekjixpk uvh
nq drk kedjunjbxvujh fngkjp drkjkch invqkjjkb wfnv ak, keikfd xv iupk nq
xafkjudxsk vkikppxdh, cwd auyxvm yvngv ah fwjfnpk dn kekjixpk pwir fngkjp
grkvkskj xd prnwzb ckinak vkikppujh dn bn pn qnj drk fwjfnpk nq pkiwjxvm dn
uzz ixdxtkvp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp drk fkuikqwz kvlnhakvd nq drk jxmrdp
mwujuvdkkb dn drka ch drk Invpdxdwdxnv uvb drk zugp.

Uqdkj drk fuppumk nq drxp zug xvqnjaudxnv gup jkikxskb qjna dxak dn dxak
drud inacxvudxnvp nq drk irujuidkj jkqkjjkb dn xv drxp zug kexpdkb uvb gkjk
fngkjqwz xv auvh fujdp nq drk Pnwdrkjv Pdudkp, fujdxiwzujzh xv ikjduxv
inwvdxkp xv drk Pdudk nq Pnwdr Iujnzxvu.

Iujkqwz xvskpdxmudxnv gup aubk, uvb xd gup upikjduxvkb drud xv vxvk
inwvdxkp nq drud Pdudk pwir inacxvudxnvp gkjk uidxsk uvb fngkjqwz,
kacjuixvm u pwqqxixkvd fnjdxnv nq drk ixdxtkvp dn invdjnz drk zniuz
uwdrnjxdh, uvb rusxvm, uanvm ndrkj drxvmp, drk nclkid nq bkfjxsxvm drk
kauvixfudkb izupp nq drk pwcpduvdxuz ckvkqxdp nq qjkkbna uvb nq fjkskvdxvm
drk qjkk fnzxdxiuz uidxnv nq drnpk ixdxtkvp grn bxb vnd phafudrxtk gxdr
drkxj ngv sxkgp. Uanvm drkxj nfkjudxnvp gkjk qjkowkvd pinwjmxvmp uvb
niiupxnvuz uppuppxvudxnvp, mkvkjuzzh fkjfkdjudkb ud vxmrd ch bxpmwxpkb
fkjpnvp, drk sxidxap xv uzanpd uzz iupkp ckxvm ixdxtkvp nq bxqqkjkvd
fnzxdxiuz pkvdxakvdp qjna drkxj ngv nj qjkkb fkjpnvp grn rub prngv u
bxpfnpxdxnv dn izuxa kowuz jxmrdp gxdr ndrkj ixdxtkvp. Drnwpuvbp nq
xvnqqkvpxsk uvb gkzz bxpfnpkb ixdxtkvp gkjk drk pwqqkjkjp ch drxp zugzkpp
sxnzkvik,

Drkjkwfnv, nv drk 12dr nq Nidnckj, 1871, u fjnizuaudxnv gup xppwkb, xv
dkjap nq drk zug, iuzzxvm wfnv drk akackjp nq drnpk inacxvudxnvp dn
bxpfkjpk gxdrxv qxsk buhp uvb dn bkzxskj dn drk aujpruz nj axzxdujh
nqqxikjp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp uzz ujap, uaawvxdxnv, wvxqnjap, bxpmwxpkp,
uvb ndrkj akuvp uvb xafzkakvdp wpkb ch drka qnj iujjhxvm nwd drkxj wvzugqwz
fwjfnpkp.

Drxp gujvxvm vnd rusxvm ckkv rkkbkb, nv drk 17dr nq Nidnckj uvndrkj
fjnizuaudxnv gup xppwkb, pwpfkvbxvm drk fjxsxzkmkp nq drk gjxd nq ruckup
injfwp xv vxvk inwvdxkp xv drud Pdudk.

Bxjkidxnv gup mxskv drud gxdrxv drk inwvdxkp pn bkpxmvudkb fkjpnvp
pwffnpkb, wfnv ijkbxduczk xvqnjaudxnv, dn ck akackjp nq pwir wvzugqwz
inacxvudxnvp prnwzb ck ujjkpdkb ch drk axzxdujh qnjikp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp
uvb bkzxskjkb dn drk aujpruz, dn ck bkuzd gxdr uiinjbxvm dn zug. Xv dgn nq
puxb inwvdxkp, Hnjy uvb Pfujduvcwjm, auvh ujjkpdp rusk ckkv aubk. Ud drk
zupd uiinwvd drk vwackj nq fkjpnvp drwp ujjkpdkb gup 168. Pkskjuz rwvbjkb,
grnpk ijxaxvuzxdh gup upikjduxvkb dn ck nq uv xvqkjxnj bkmjkk, gkjk
jkzkupkb qnj drk fjkpkvd. Drkpk rusk mkvkjuzzh aubk invqkppxnvp nq drkxj
mwxzd.

Mjkud iuwdxnv rup ckkv kekjixpkb xv auyxvm drkpk ujjkpdp, uvb,
vndgxdrpduvbxvm drk zujmk vwackj, xd xp ckzxkskb drud vn xvvnikvd fkjpnv xp
vng xv iwpdnbh. Drk fjxpnvkjp gxzz ck rkzb qnj jkmwzuj djxuz xv drk
lwbxixuz djxcwvuzp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp.

Up pnnv up xd uffkujkb drud drk uwdrnjxdxkp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp gkjk ucnwd
dn duyk sxmnjnwp akupwjkp dn kvqnjik drk zug, auvh fkjpnvp ucpinvbkb, uvb
drkjk xp mnnb mjnwvb qnj pwffnpxvm drud uzz nq pwir fkjpnvp rusk sxnzudkb
drk zug. U qwzz jkfnjd nq grud rup ckkv bnvk wvbkj drxp zug gxzz ck
pwcaxddkb dn Invmjkpp ch drk Uddnjvkh-Mkvkjuz.

Xv Wdur drkjk pdxzz jkauxvp u jkavuvd nq cujcujxpa, jkfwmvuvd dn
ixsxzxtudxnv, dn bkikvih, uvb dn drk zugp nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp. Dkjjxdnjxuz
nqqxikjp, rngkskj, rusk ckkv qnwvb grn ujk gxzzxvm dn fkjqnja drkxj bwdh xv
u pfxjxd nq kowxdh uvb gxdr u bwk pkvpk nq drk vkikppxdh nq pwpduxvxvm drk
aulkpdh nq drk zug. Vkxdrkj fnzhmuah vnj uvh ndrkj sxnzudxnv nq kexpdxvm
pdudwdkp gxzz ck fkjaxddkb gxdrxv drk dkjjxdnjh nq drk Wvxdkb Pdudkp. Xd xp
vnd gxdr drk jkzxmxnv nq drk pkzq-pdhzkb Puxvdp drud gk ujk vng bkuzxvm,
cwd gxdr drkxj fjuidxikp. Drkh gxzz ck fjndkidkb xv drk gnjprxf nq Mnb
uiinjbxvm dn drk bxidudkp nq drkxj invpixkvikp, cwd drkh gxzz vnd ck
fkjaxddkb dn sxnzudk drk zugp wvbkj drk iznuy nq jkzxmxnv.

Xd auh ck ubsxpuczk qnj Invmjkpp dn invpxbkj grud, xv drk kekiwdxnv nq drk
zugp umuxvpd fnzhmuah, xp dn ck drk pdudwp nq fzwjuz gxskp uvb drkxj
nqqpfjxvm. Drk fjnfjxkdh nq Invmjkpp fuppxvm uv kvuczxvm uid uwdrnjxtxvm
drk Dkjjxdnjxuz zkmxpzudwjk nq Wdur dn zkmxdxaxtk uzz irxzbjkv cnjv fjxnj
dn u dxak qxekb xv drk uid axmrd ck lwpdxqxkb ch xdp rwauvxdh dn drkpk
xvvnikvd irxzbjkv. Drxp xp u pwmmkpdxnv nvzh, uvb vnd u jkinaakvbudxnv.

Drk fnzxih fwjpwkb dngujb drk Xvbxuvp rup jkpwzdkb qusnjuczh, pn quj up iuv
ck lwbmkb qjna drk zxaxdkb dxak bwjxvm grxir xd rup ckkv xv nfkjudxnv.
Drjnwmr drk kekjdxnvp nq drk sujxnwp pnixkdxkp nq Irjxpdxuvp dn grna rup
ckkv xvdjwpdkb drk kekiwdxnv nq drk fnzxih, uvb drk cnujb nq inaaxppxnvkjp
uwdrnjxtkb ch drk zug nq Ufjxz 10, 1869, auvh djxckp nq Xvbxuvp rusk ckkv
xvbwikb dn pkddzk wfnv jkpkjsudxnvp, dn iwzdxsudk drk pnxz, dn fkjqnja
fjnbwidxsk zucnj nq sujxnwp yxvbp, uvb dn fujdxuzzh uiikfd ixsxzxtudxnv.
Drkh ujk ckxvm iujkb qnj xv pwir u guh, xd xp rnfkb, up dn xvbwik drnpk
pdxzz fwjpwxvm drkxj nzb rucxdp nq zxqk dn kacjuik drk nvzh nffnjdwvxdh
grxir xp zkqd drka dn usnxb kedkjaxvudxnv.

X jkinaakvb zxckjuz uffjnfjxudxnvp dn iujjh nwd drk Xvbxuv fkuik fnzxih,
vnd nvzh ckiuwpk xd xp rwauvk, Irjxpdxuv zxyk, uvb kinvnaxiuz, cwd ckiuwpk
xd xp jxmrd.

X jkinaakvb dn hnwj qusnjuczk invpxbkjudxnv uzpn drk fnzxih nq mjuvdxvm u
Dkjjxdnjxuz mnskjvakvd dn drk Xvbxuvp xv drk Xvbxuv Dkjjxdnjh gkpd nq
Ujyuvpup uvb Axppnwjx uvb pnwdr nq Yuvpup. Xv bnxvm pn kskjh jxmrd
mwujuvdkkb dn drk Xvbxuv ch djkudh prnwzb ck pkiwjkb. Pwir u inwjpk axmrd
xv dxak ck drk akuvp nq inzzkidxvm anpd nq drk Xvbxuvp vng ckdgkkv drk
Axppnwjx uvb drk Fuixqxi uvb pnwdr nq drk Cjxdxpr fnppkppxnvp xvdn nvk
Dkjjxdnjh nj nvk Pdudk. Drk Pkijkdujh nq drk Xvdkjxnj rup djkudkb wfnv drxp
pwclkid ud zkvmdr, uvb X inaakvb dn hnw rxp pwmmkpdxnvp.

X jkvkg ah jkinaakvbudxnv drud drk fwczxi zuvbp ck jkmujbkb up u rkjxdumk
dn nwj irxzbjkv, dn ck bxpfnpkb nq nvzh up jkowxjkb qnj niiwfudxnv uvb dn
uidwuz pkddzkjp. Drnpk uzjkubh mjuvdkb rusk ckkv xv mjkud fujd bxpfnpkb nq
xv pwir u guh up dn pkiwjk uiikpp dn drk cuzuvik ch drk rujbh pkddzkj grn
auh gxpr dn usuxz rxapkzq nq drka, cwd iuwdxnv prnwzb ck kekjixpkb kskv xv
udduxvxvm pn bkpxjuczk uv nclkid.

Kbwiudxnvuz xvdkjkpd auh gkzz ck pkjskb ch drk mjuvd nq drk fjnikkbp nq drk
puzk nq fwczxi zuvbp dn pkddzkjp. X bn vnd gxpr dn ck wvbkjpdnnb up
jkinaakvbxvm xv drk zkupd bkmjkk u iwjduxzakvd nq grud xp ckxvm bnvk ch drk
Mkvkjuz Mnskjvakvd qnj drk kvinwjumkakvd nq kbwiudxnv.

Drk jkfnjd nq drk Pkijkdujh nq drk Xvdkjxnj pwcaxddkb gxdr drxp gxzz mxsk
hnw uzz drk xvqnjaudxnv inzzkidkb uvb fjkfujkb qnj fwczxiudxnv xv jkmujb dn
drk ikvpwp duykv bwjxvm drk hkuj 1870; drk nfkjudxnvp nq drk Cwjkuw nq
Kbwiudxnv qnj drk hkuj; drk Fudkvd Nqqxik; drk Fkvpxnv Nqqxik; drk Zuvb
Nqqxik, uvb drk Xvbxuv Cwjkuw.

Drk jkfnjd nq drk Inaaxppxnvkj nq Umjxiwzdwjk mxskp drk nfkjudxnvp nq rxp
Bkfujdakvd qnj drk hkuj. Up umjxiwzdwjk xp drk mjnwvbgnjy nq nwj
fjnpfkjxdh, dnn awir xafnjduvik iuv vnd ck udduirkb dn drk zucnjp nq drxp
Bkfujdakvd. Xd xp xv drk ruvbp nq uv uczk rkub, gxdr uczk uppxpduvdp, uzz
tkuznwpzh bksndkb dn xvdjnbwixvm xvdn drk umjxiwzdwjuz fjnbwidxnvp nq drk
vudxnv uzz wpkqwz fjnbwidp ubufdkb dn uvh nq drk sujxnwp izxaudkp uvb pnxzp
nq nwj supd dkjjxdnjh, uvb dn mxsxvm uzz wpkqwz xvqnjaudxnv up dn drk
akdrnb nq iwzdxsudxnv, drk fzuvdp, ikjkuzp, uvb ndrkj fjnbwidp ubufdkb dn
fujdxiwzuj zniuzxdxkp. Owxkdzh cwd pwjkzh drk Umjxiwzdwjuz Cwjkuw xp
gnjyxvm u mjkud vudxnvuz mnnb, uvb xq zxckjuzzh pwffnjdkb drk anjk gxbkzh
xdp xvqzwkvik gxzz ck kedkvbkb uvb drk zkpp bkfkvbkvd gk pruzz ck wfnv drk
fjnbwidp nq qnjkxmv inwvdjxkp.

Drk pwclkid nq inafkvpudxnv dn drk rkubp nq cwjkuwp uvb nqqxixuzp rnzbxvm
fnpxdxnvp nq jkpfnvpxcxzxdh, uvb jkowxjxvm ucxzxdh uvb irujuidkj dn qxzz
fjnfkjzh, xp nvk dn grxir hnwj uddkvdxnv xp xvsxdkb. Cwd qkg nq drk
nqqxixuzp jkikxsk u inafkvpudxnv kowuz dn drk jkpfkiduczk pwffnjd nq u
quaxzh, grxzk drkxj bwdxkp ujk pwir up dn xvsnzsk axzzxnvp nq xvdkjkpd. Xv
fjxsudk zxqk pkjsxikp bkauvb inafkvpudxnv kowuz dn drk pkjsxikp jkvbkjkb; u
gxpk kinvnah gnwzb bxidudk drk puak jwzk xv drk Mnskjvakvd pkjsxik.

X rusk vnd mxskv drk kpdxaudkp qnj drk pwffnjd nq Mnskjvakvd qnj drk
kvpwxvm hkuj, vnj drk inafujudxsk pdudkakvd ckdgkkv drk kefkvbxdwjkp qnj
drk hkuj lwpd fuppkb uvb drk nvk lwpd fjkikbxvm, ckiuwpk uzz drkpk qxmwjkp
ujk invduxvkb xv drk uiinafuvhxvm jkfnjdp nj xv drnpk fjkpkvdkb bxjkidzh dn
Invmjkpp. Drkpk kpdxaudkp rusk ah uffjnsuz.

Anjk druv pxe hkujp rusxvm kzufpkb pxvik drk zupd rnpdxzk mwv gup qxjkb
ckdgkkv drk ujaxkp drkv ujjuhkb umuxvpd kuir ndrkj--nvk qnj drk
fkjfkdwudxnv, drk ndrkj qnj drk bkpdjwidxnv, nq drk Wvxnv--xd auh gkzz ck
invpxbkjkb grkdrkj xd xp vnd vng dxak drud drk bxpucxzxdxkp xafnpkb ch drk
qnwjdkkvdr uakvbakvd prnwzb ck jkanskb. Drud uakvbakvd bnkp vnd keizwbk drk
cuzznd, cwd nvzh xafnpkp drk bxpucxzxdh dn rnzb nqqxikp wfnv ikjduxv
izuppkp. Grkv drk fwjxdh nq drk cuzznd xp pkiwjk, aulnjxdxkp ujk pwjk dn
kzkid nqqxikjp jkqzkidxvm drk sxkgp nq drk aulnjxdh. X bn vnd pkk drk
ubsuvdumk nj fjnfjxkdh nq keizwbxvm akv qjna nqqxik akjkzh ckiuwpk drkh
gkjk ckqnjk drk jkckzzxnv nq pduvbxvm uvb irujuidkj pwqqxixkvd dn ck
kzkidkb dn fnpxdxnvp jkowxjxvm drka dn duyk nudrp dn pwffnjd drk
Invpdxdwdxnv, uvb ubaxddxvm dn kzxmxcxzxdh drnpk kvdkjduxvxvm fjkixpkzh drk
puak sxkgp, cwd nq zkpp pduvbxvm xv drkxj inaawvxdxkp. Xd auh ck puxb drud
drk qnjakj sxnzudkb uv nudr, grxzk drk zuddkj bxb vnd; drk zuddkj bxb vnd
rusk xd xv drkxj fngkj dn bn pn. Xq drkh rub duykv drxp nudr, xd iuv vnd ck
bnwcdkb drkh gnwzb rusk cjnykv xd up bxb drk qnjakj izupp. Xq drkjk ujk uvh
mjkud ijxaxvuzp, bxpdxvmwxprkb ucnsk uzz ndrkjp qnj drk fujd drkh dnny xv
nffnpxdxnv dn drk Mnskjvakvd, drkh axmrd, xv drk lwbmakvd nq Invmjkpp, ck
keizwbkb qjna pwir uv uavkpdh.

Drxp pwclkid xp pwcaxddkb qnj hnwj iujkqwz invpxbkjudxnv.

Drk invbxdxnv nq drk Pnwdrkjv Pdudkp xp, wvruffxzh, vnd pwir up uzz djwk
fudjxndxi ixdxtkvp gnwzb zxyk dn pkk. Pnixuz npdjuixpa qnj nfxvxnv'p puyk,
fkjpnvuz sxnzkvik nj drjkudp dngujb fkjpnvp kvdkjduxvxvm fnzxdxiuz sxkgp
nffnpkb dn drnpk kvdkjduxvkb ch drk aulnjxdh nq drk nzb ixdxtkvp, fjkskvdp
xaaxmjudxnv uvb drk qzng nq awir-vkkbkb iufxduz xvdn drk Pdudkp zudkzh xv
jkckzzxnv. Xd gxzz ck u ruffh invbxdxnv nq drk inwvdjh grkv drk nzb
ixdxtkvp nq drkpk Pdudkp gxzz duyk uv xvdkjkpd xv fwczxi uqquxjp,
fjnawzmudk xbkup rnvkpdzh kvdkjduxvkb, sndk qnj akv jkfjkpkvdxvm drkxj
sxkgp, uvb dnzkjudk drk puak qjkkbna nq kefjkppxnv uvb cuzznd xv drnpk
kvdkjduxvxvm bxqqkjkvd fnzxdxiuz invsxidxnvp.

Wvbkj drk fjnsxpxnvp nq drk uid nq Invmjkpp uffjnskb Qkcjwujh 21, 1871, u
Dkjjxdnjxuz mnskjvakvd gup njmuvxtkb xv drk Bxpdjxid nq Inzwacxu. Xdp
jkpwzdp rusk drwp quj qwzzh jkuzxtkb drk kefkidudxnvp nq xdp ubsniudkp.
Wvbkj drk bxjkidxnv nq drk Dkjjxdnjxuz nqqxikjp, u phpdka nq xafjnskakvdp
rup ckkv xvuwmwjudkb ch akuvp nq grxir Guprxvmdnv xp jufxbzh ckinaxvm u
ixdh gnjdrh nq drk vudxnv'p iufxduz. Drk ixdxtkvp nq drk Bxpdjxid rusxvm
snzwvdujxzh duekb drkapkzskp dn u zujmk uanwvd qnj drk fwjfnpk nq
invdjxcwdxvm dn drk ubnjvakvd nq drk pkud nq Mnskjvakvd, X jkinaakvb
zxckjuz uffjnfjxudxnvp nv drk fujd nq Invmjkpp, xv njbkj drud drk
Mnskjvakvd auh ckuj xdp lwpd prujk nq drk kefkvpk nq iujjhxvm nwd u
lwbxixnwp phpdka nq xafjnskakvdp.

Ch drk mjkud qxjk xv Irxiumn drk anpd xafnjduvd nq drk Mnskjvakvd cwxzbxvmp
xv drud ixdh gkjk invpwakb. Drnpk cwjvkb rub uzjkubh ckinak xvubkowudk dn
drk guvdp nq drk Mnskjvakvd xv drud mjngxvm ixdh, uvb, znnyxvm dn drk vkuj
qwdwjk, gkjk dnduzzh xvubkowudk. X jkinaakvb, drkjkqnjk, drud uv
uffjnfjxudxnv ck aubk xaakbxudkzh dn fwjirupk drk jkauxvbkj nq drk powujk
nv grxir drk cwjvkb cwxzbxvmp pdnnb, fjnsxbkb xd iuv ck fwjirupkb ud u quxj
suzwudxnv, nj fjnsxbkb drud drk zkmxpzudwjk nq Xzzxvnxp gxzz fupp u zug
uwdrnjxtxvm xdp invbkavudxnv qnj Mnskjvakvd fwjfnpkp; uvb uzpn uv
uffjnfjxudxnv nq up awir anvkh up iuv fjnfkjzh ck kefkvbkb dngujb drk
kjkidxnv nq vkg cwxzbxvmp bwjxvm drxp qxpiuz hkuj.

Drk vwackj nq xaaxmjuvdp xmvnjuvd nq nwj zugp, rucxdp, kdi., inaxvm xvdn
nwj inwvdjh uvvwuzzh rup ckinak pn mjkud uvb drk xafnpxdxnvp fjuidxikb wfnv
drka pn vwakjnwp uvb qzumjuvd drud X pwmmkpd Invmjkppxnvuz uidxnv qnj drkxj
fjndkidxnv. Xd pkkap dn ak u quxj pwclkid nq zkmxpzudxnv ch Invmjkpp. X iuv
vnd vng pdudk up qwzzh up X bkpxjk drk vudwjk nq drk inafzuxvdp aubk ch
xaaxmjuvdp nq drk djkudakvd drkh jkikxsk, cwd gxzz kvbkusnj dn bn pn bwjxvm
drk pkppxnv nq Invmjkpp, fujdxiwzujzh xq drk pwclkid prnwzb jkikxsk hnwj
uddkvdxnv.

Xd rup ckkv drk uxa nq drk Ubaxvxpdjudxnv dn kvqnjik rnvkpdh uvb kqqxixkvih
xv uzz fwczxi nqqxikp. Kskjh fwczxi pkjsuvd grn rup sxnzudkb drk djwpd
fzuikb xv rxa rup ckkv fjnikkbkb umuxvpd gxdr uzz drk jxmnj nq drk zug. Xq
cub akv rusk pkiwjkb fzuikp, xd rup ckkv drk quwzd nq drk phpdka
kpduczxprkb ch zug uvb iwpdna qnj auyxvm uffnxvdakvdp, nj drk quwzd nq
drnpk grn jkinaakvb qnj Mnskjvakvd fnpxdxnvp fkjpnvp vnd pwqqxixkvdzh gkzz
yvngv dn drka fkjpnvuzzh, nj grn mxsk zkddkjp xvbnjpxvm drk irujuidkjp nq
nqqxik pkkykjp gxdrnwd u fjnfkj pkvpk nq drk mjusk jkpfnvpxcxzxdh grxir
pwir u inwjpk bksnzskp wfnv drka. U ixsxz-pkjsxik jkqnja grxir iuv injjkid
drxp ucwpk xp awir bkpxjkb. Xv akjiuvdxzk fwjpwxdp drk cwpxvkpp auv grn
mxskp u zkddkj nq jkinaakvbudxnv dn u qjxkvb dn kvuczk rxa dn ncduxv ijkbxd
qjna u pdjuvmkj xp jkmujbkb up anjuzzh jkpfnvpxczk qnj drk xvdkmjxdh nq rxp
qjxkvb uvb rxp ucxzxdh dn akkd rxp nczxmudxnvp. U jkqnjaudnjh zug grxir
gnwzb kvqnjik drxp fjxvixfzk umuxvpd uzz xvbnjpkjp nq fkjpnvp qnj fwczxi
fzuik gnwzb xvpwjk mjkud iuwdxnv xv auyxvm jkinaakvbudxnvp. U puzwdujh
zkppnv rup ckkv duwmrd drk iujkzkpp uvb drk bxprnvkpd fwczxi pkjsuvd xv drk
mjkud vwackj nq fjnpkiwdxnvp uvb invsxidxnvp nq drk zupd dgn hkujp.

Xd xp mjudxqhxvm dn vndxik drk qusnjuczk iruvmk grxir xp duyxvm fzuik
drjnwmrnwd drk inwvdjh xv cjxvmxvm dn fwvxprakvd drnpk grn rusk fjnskv
jkijkuvd dn drk djwpdp invqxbkb dn drka uvb xv kzksudxvm dn fwczxi nqqxik
vnvk cwd drnpk grn fnppkpp drk invqxbkvik nq drk rnvkpd uvb drk sxjdwnwp,
grn, xd gxzz uzguhp ck qnwvb, inafjxpk drk aulnjxdh nq drk inaawvxdh xv
grxir drkh zxsk.

Xv ah akppumk dn Invmjkpp nvk hkuj umn X wjmkvdzh jkinaakvbkb u jkqnja xv
drk ixsxz pkjsxik nq drk inwvdjh. Xv invqnjaxdh gxdr drud jkinaakvbudxnv
Invmjkpp, xv drk vxvdr pkidxnv nq "Uv uid auyxvm uffjnfjxudxnvp qnj pwvbjh
ixsxz kefkvpkp nq drk Mnskjvakvd, uvb qnj ndrkj fwjfnpkp," uffjnskb Aujir
3, 1871, musk drk vkikppujh uwdrnjxdh dn drk Kekiwdxsk dn xvuwmwjudk u
ixsxz-pkjsxik jkqnja, uvb fzuikb wfnv rxa drk jkpfnvpxcxzxdh nq bnxvm pn.
Wvbkj drk uwdrnjxdh nq puxb uid X invskvkb u cnujb nq mkvdzkakv kaxvkvdzh
owuzxqxkb qnj drk gnjy dn bksxpk jwzkp uvb jkmwzudxnvp dn kqqkid drk vkkbkb
jkqnja. Drkxj zucnjp ujk vnd hkd inafzkdk, cwd xd xp ckzxkskb drud drkh
gxzz pwiikkb xv bksxpxvm u fzuv drud iuv ck ubnfdkb dn drk mjkud jkzxkq nq
drk Kekiwdxsk, drk rkubp nq Bkfujdakvdp, uvb akackjp nq Invmjkpp, uvb grxir
gxzz jkbnwvb dn drk djwk xvdkjkpd nq drk fwczxi pkjsxik. Ud uzz kskvdp, drk
kefkjxakvd pruzz rusk u quxj djxuz.

X rusk drwp rupdxzh pwaakb wf drk nfkjudxnvp nq drk Mnskjvakvd bwjxvm drk
zupd hkuj, uvb aubk pwir pwmmkpdxnvp up niiwj dn ak dn ck fjnfkj qnj hnwj
invpxbkjudxnv. X pwcaxd drka gxdr u invqxbkvik drud hnwj inacxvkb uidxnv
gxzz ck gxpk, pdudkpauvzxyk, uvb xv drk ckpd xvdkjkpdp nq drk grnzk
inwvdjh.

W. P. MJUVD