Zp zis Gskjzs jko Ipags pn Lswlsgskzjzvmsg:

Vk garqvzzvkx qf svxizi jko cjgz jkkajc qsggjxs zp Bpkxlsgg vz gssqg wlpwsl
zijz V gipaco lsnsl zp jko vk gpqs osxlss lsbjwvzacjzs zis smskzg jko
pnnvbvjc jbzg pn zis wjgz svxiz fsjlg.

Vz djg qf nplzaks, pl qvgnplzaks, zp rs bjccso zp zis pnnvbs pn Bivsn
Shsbazvms dvzipaz jkf wlsmvpag wpcvzvbjc zljvkvkx. Nlpq zis jxs pn 17 V ijo
ksmsl smsk dvzksggso zis shbvzsqskz jzzskovkx j Wlsgvoskzvjc bjqwjvxk raz
zdvbs jkzsbsoskz zp qf pdk bjkovojbf, jko jz raz pks pn zisq djg V scvxvrcs
jg j mpzsl.

Akosl gabi bvlbaqgzjkbsg vz vg raz lsjgpkjrcs zp gawwpgs zijz sllplg pn
yaoxqskz qagz ijms pbballso. Smsk ijo zisf kpz, ovnnslskbsg pn pwvkvpk
rszdssk zis Shsbazvms, rpako rf jk pjzi zp zis gzlvbz wslnplqjkbs pn ivg
oazvsg, jko dlvzslg jko osrjzslg qagz ijms jlvgsk. Vz vg kpz ksbsggjlvcf
smvoskbs pn rcakosl pk zis wjlz pn zis Shsbazvms rsbjags zisls jls zisgs
ovnnslskbsg pn mvsdg. Qvgzjtsg ijms rssk qjos, jg jcc bjk gss jko V joqvz,
raz vz gssqg zp qs pnzsksl vk zis gscsbzvpkg qjos pn zis jggvgzjkzg
jwwpvkzso zp jvo vk bjllfvkx paz zis mjlvpag oazvsg pn joqvkvgzslvkx zis
Xpmslkqskz--vk ksjlcf smslf bjgs gscsbzso dvzipaz j wslgpkjc jbeajvkzjkbs
dvzi zis jwwpvkzss, raz awpk lsbpqqskojzvpkg pn zis lswlsgskzjzvmsg bipgsk
ovlsbzcf rf zis wspwcs. Vz vg vqwpggvrcs, disls gp qjkf zlagzg jls zp rs
jccpzzso, zijz zis lvxiz wjlzvsg gipaco rs bipgsk vk smslf vkgzjkbs.
Ivgzplf gipdg zijz kp Joqvkvgzljzvpk nlpq zis zvqs pn Djgivkxzpk zp zis
wlsgskz ijg rssk nlss nlpq zisgs qvgzjtsg. Raz V csjms bpqwjlvgpkg zp
ivgzplf, bcjvqvkx pkcf zijz V ijms jbzso vk smslf vkgzjkbs nlpq j
bpkgbvskzvpag osgvls zp op dijz djg lvxiz, bpkgzvzazvpkjc, dvzivk zis cjd,
jko npl zis mslf rsgz vkzslsgzg pn zis dipcs wspwcs. Njvcalsg ijms rssk
sllplg pn yaoxqskz, kpz pn vkzskz.

Qf bvmvc bjlssl bpqqskbso, zpp, jz j qpgz blvzvbjc jko ovnnvbacz zvqs. Csgg
zijk npal fsjlg rsnpls, zis bpakzlf ijo sqslxso nlpq j bpkncvbz gabi jg kp
pzisl kjzvpk ijo smsl galmvmso. Ksjlcf pks-ijcn pn zis Gzjzsg ijo lsmpczso
jxjvkgz zis Xpmslkqskz, jko pn zipgs lsqjvkvkx njvzinac zp zis Akvpk j
cjlxs wslbskzjxs pn zis wpwacjzvpk gfqwjzivuso dvzi zis lsrsccvpk jko qjos
jk "sksqf vk zis lsjl" jcqpgz jg ojkxslpag jg zis qpls ipkpljrcs sksqf vk
zis nlpkz. Zis cjzzsl bpqqvzzso sllplg pn yaoxqskz, raz zisf qjvkzjvkso
zisq pwskcf jko bpaljxspagcf; zis nplqsl lsbsvmso zis wlpzsbzvpk pn zis
Xpmslkqskz zisf dpaco gss osgzlpfso, jko lsjwso jcc zis wsbakvjlf jomjkzjxs
zp rs xjvkso paz pn zis zisk shvgzvkx gzjzs pn jnnjvlg, qjkf pn zisq rf
przjvkvkx bpkzljbzg jko rf gdvkocvkx zis Xpmslkqskz vk zis oscvmslf pn
zisvl xppog.

Vqqsovjzscf pk zis bsggjzvpk pn ipgzvcvzvsg zis zisk kprcs Wlsgvoskz, dip
ijo bjllvso zis bpakzlf gp njl zilpaxi vzg wslvcg, nscc j qjlzfl zp ivg
wjzlvpzvgq jz zis ijkog pn jk jggjggvk.

Zis vkzslmskvkx zvqs zp qf nvlgz vkjaxaljzvpk djg nvccso aw dvzi dljkxcvkxg
rszdssk Bpkxlsgg jko zis ksd Shsbazvms jg zp zis rsgz qpos pn
"lsbpkgzlabzvpk," pl, zp gwsjt wcjvkcf, jg zp diszisl zis bpkzlpc pn zis
Xpmslkqskz gipaco rs zilpdk vqqsovjzscf vkzp zis ijkog pn zipgs dip ijo gp
lsbskzcf jko wslgvgzskzcf zlvso zp osgzlpf vz, pl diszisl zis mvbzplg
gipaco bpkzvkas zp ijms jk seajc mpvbs dvzi zisq vk zivg bpkzlpc.
Lsbpkgzlabzvpk, jg nvkjccf jxlsso awpk, qsjkg zivg jko pkcf zivg, shbswz
zijz zis cjzs gcjms djg sknljkbivgso, xvmvkx jk vkblsjgs, jg djg gawwpgso,
zp zis Akvpk-cpmvkx jko Akvpk-gawwplzvkx mpzsg. Vn nlss vk zis nacc gskgs
pn zis dplo, zisf dpaco kpz ovgjwwpvkz zivg shwsbzjzvpk. Iskbs jz zis
rsxvkkvkx pn qf nvlgz Joqvkvgzljzvpk zis dplt pn lsbpkgzlabzvpk, qabi
sqrjlljggso rf zis cpkx oscjf, mvlzajccf bpqqskbso. Vz djg zis dplt pn zis
csxvgcjzvms rljkbi pn zis Xpmslkqskz. Qf wlpmvkbs djg dipccf vk jwwlpmvkx
zisvl jbzg, divbi V ovo qpgz isjlzvcf, alxvkx zis csxvgcjzalsg pn Gzjzsg
zijz ijo kpz fsz opks gp zp ljzvnf zis nvnzsskzi jqskoqskz zp zis
Bpkgzvzazvpk. Zis bpakzlf djg cjrplvkx akosl jk skplqpag osrz, bpkzljbzso
vk zis gawwlsggvpk pn lsrsccvpk, jko zjhjzvpk djg gp pwwlsggvms jg zp
ovgbpaljxs wlpoabzvpk. Jkpzisl ojkxsl jcgp zilsjzskso ag--j nplsvxk djl.
Zis cjgz ovnnvbaczf ijo zp rs joyagzso jko djg joyagzso dvzipaz j djl jko
vk j qjkksl ivxicf ipkpljrcs zp jcc wjlzvsg bpkbslkso. Zjhsg ijms rssk
lsoabso dvzivk zis cjgz gsmsk fsjlg ksjlcf $300,000,000, jko zis kjzvpkjc
osrz ijg rssk lsoabso vk zis gjqs zvqs pmsl $435,000,000. Rf lsnakovkx zis
6 wsl bskz rpkoso osrz npl rpkog rsjlvkx 5 jko 4 1/2 wsl bskz vkzslsgz,
lsgwsbzvmscf, zis jkkajc vkzslsgz ijg rssk lsoabso nlpq pmsl $130,000,000
vk 1869 zp raz cvzzcs pmsl $100,000,000 vk 1876. Zis rjcjkbs pn zljos ijg
rssk bijkxso nlpq pmsl $130,000,000 jxjvkgz zis Akvzso Gzjzsg vk 1869 zp
qpls zijk $120,000,000 vk pal njmpl vk 1876.

Vz vg bpknvoskzcf rscvsmso zijz zis rjcjkbs pn zljos vk njmpl pn zis Akvzso
Gzjzsg dvcc vkblsjgs, kpz ovqvkvgi, jko zijz zis wcsoxs pn Bpkxlsgg zp
lsgaqs gwsbvs wjfqskzg vk 1879 dvcc rs sjgvcf jbbpqwcvgiso, smsk vk zis
jrgskbs pn qabi-osgvlso nalzisl csxvgcjzvpk pk zis garysbz.

J wpcvbf ijg rssk jopwzso zpdjlo zis Vkovjk zlvrsg vkijrvzvkx j cjlxs
wplzvpk pn zis zsllvzplf pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg divbi ijg rssk iaqjks jko ijg
gargzjkzvjccf skoso Vkovjk ipgzvcvzvsg vk zis dipcs cjko shbswz vk j
wplzvpk pn Ksrljgtj, jko Ojtpzj, Dfpqvkx, jko Qpkzjkj Zsllvzplvsg--zis
Rcjbt Ivccg lsxvpk jko jwwlpjbisg zislszp. Ipgzvcvzvsg zisls ijms xlpdk paz
pn zis jmjlvbs pn zis divzs qjk, dip ijg mvpcjzso pal zlsjzf gzvwacjzvpkg
vk ivg gsjlbi npl xpco. Zis easgzvpk qvxiz rs jgtso dif zis Xpmslkqskz ijg
kpz sknplbso prsovskbs zp zis zslqg pn zis zlsjzf wlpivrvzvkx zis
pbbawjzvpk pn zis Rcjbt Ivccg lsxvpk rf divzsg. Zis jkgdsl vg gvqwcs: Zis
nvlgz vqqvxljkzg zp zis Rcjbt Ivccg dsls lsqpmso rf zlppwg, raz laqplg pn
lvbi ovgbpmslvsg pn xpco zppt vkzp zijz lsxvpk vkblsjgso kaqrslg. Xpco ijg
jbzajccf rssk npako vk wjfvkx eajkzvzf, jko jk snnplz zp lsqpms zis qvkslg
dpaco pkcf lsgacz vk zis osgslzvpk pn zis ract pn zis zlppwg zijz qvxiz rs
gskz zisls zp lsqpms zisq. Jcc ovnnvbaczf vk zivg qjzzsl ijg, ipdsmsl, rssk
lsqpmso--garysbz zp zis jwwlpmjc pn Bpkxlsgg--rf j zlsjzf bsovkx zis Rcjbt
Ivccg jko jwwlpjbisg zp gszzcsqskz rf bvzvuskg.

Zis garysbz pn Vkovjk wpcvbf jko zlsjzqskz vg gp naccf gsz nplzi rf zis
Gsblszjlf pn zis Vkzslvpl jko zis Bpqqvggvpksl pn Vkovjk Jnnjvlg, jko qf
mvsdg gp naccf shwlsggso zislsvk, zijz V lsnsl zp zisvl lswplzg jko
lsbpqqskojzvpkg jg qf pdk.

Zis lscjzvpkg pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg dvzi nplsvxk wpdslg bpkzvkas pk j
nlvskocf nppzvkx.

Easgzvpkg ijms jlvgsk nlpq zvqs zp zvqs vk zis nplsvxk lscjzvpkg pn zis
Xpmslkqskz, raz zis Akvzso Gzjzsg ijms rssk ijwwvcf nlss oalvkx zis wjgz
fsjl nlpq zis bpqwcvbjzvpkg jko sqrjlljggqskzg divbi ijms gallpakoso gpqs
pn zis nplsvxk wpdslg.

Zis ovwcpqjzvb bpllsgwpkoskbs garqvzzso islsdvzi bpkzjvkg vknplqjzvpk jg zp
bslzjvk pn zis qjzzslg divbi ijms pbbawvso zis Xpmslkqskz.

Zis bplovjcvzf divbi jzzskog pal lscjzvpkg dvzi zis wpdslg pn zis sjlzi ijg
rssk wcjvkcf gipdk rf zis xsksljc wjlzvbvwjzvpk pn nplsvxk kjzvpkg vk zis
shivrvzvpk divbi ijg yagz bcpgso jko rf zis shslzvpkg qjos rf ovgzjkz
wpdslg zp gipd zisvl vkzslsgz vk jko nlvskocf nsscvkxg zpdjlo zis Akvzso
Gzjzsg vk zis bpqqsqpljzvpk pn zis bskzskkvjc pn zis kjzvpk. Zis Xpmslkqskz
jko wspwcs pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg ijms kpz pkcf naccf jwwlsbvjzso zivg
shivrvzvpk pn tvkocf nsscvkx, raz vz qjf rs yagzcf jko njvlcf shwsbzso zijz
kp gqjcc rsksnvzg dvcc lsgacz rpzi zp palgscmsg jko pzisl kjzvpkg nlpq j
rszzsl jbeajvkzjkbs, jko j rszzsl jwwlsbvjzvpk pn pal qazajc jomjkzjxsg jko
qazajc djkzg.

Bpkxlsgg jz vzg cjgz gsggvpk gjd nvz zp lsoabs zis jqpakz agajccf
jwwlpwlvjzso npl nplsvxk vkzslbpalgs rf dvziipcovkx jwwlpwlvjzvpkg npl
lswlsgskzjzvmsg pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg vk bslzjvk nplsvxk bpakzlvsg jko npl
bslzjvk bpkgacjl pnnvbslg, jko rf lsoabvkx zis jqpakzg agajccf jwwlpwlvjzso
npl bslzjvk pzisl ovwcpqjzvb wpgzg, jko ziag ksbsggvzjzvkx j bijkxs vk zis
xljos pn zis lswlsgskzjzvmsg. Npl zisgs lsjgpkg, vqqsovjzscf awpk zis
wjggjxs pn zis rvcc qjtvkx jwwlpwlvjzvpkg npl zis ovwcpqjzvb jko bpkgacjl
gslmvbs npl zis wlsgskz nvgbjc fsjl, vkgzlabzvpkg dsls vggaso zp zis
lswlsgskzjzvmsg pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg jz Rpcvmvj, Sbajopl, jko Bpcpqrvj, jko
zp zis bpkgacjl pnnvbslg npl dipq kp jwwlpwlvjzvpk ijo rssk qjos, zp bcpgs
zisvl lsgwsbzvms csxjzvpkg jko bpkgacjzsg jko bsjgs nlpq zis wslnplqjkbs pn
zisvl oazvsg; jko vk cvts qjkksl gzswg dsls vqqsovjzscf zjtsk zp gargzvzazs
bijlxs'g o'jnnjvlsg npl qvkvgzslg lsgvoskz vk Wplzaxjc, Oskqjlt, Xlssbs,
Gdvzuslcjko, jko Wjljxajf.

Divcs ziplpaxicf vqwlsggso dvzi zis dvgopq pn gpako sbpkpqf vk zis nplsvxk
gslmvbs, jg vk pzisl rljkbisg pn zis Xpmslkqskz, V bjk kpz sgbjws zis
bpkbcagvpk zijz vk gpqs vkgzjkbsg zis dvziipcovkx pn jwwlpwlvjzvpkg dvcc
wlpms jk shwskgvms sbpkpqf, jko zijz zis gqjcc lszlskbiqskz gsbalso rf j
bijkxs pn xljos vk bslzjvk ovwcpqjzvb wpgzg vg kpz jk joseajzs
bpkgvosljzvpk npl zis cpgg pn vkncaskbs jko vqwplzjkbs divbi dvcc jzzsko
pal nplsvxk lswlsgskzjzvmsg akosl zivg lsoabzvpk. V jq pn zis pwvkvpk zijz
j lsshjqvkjzvpk pn zis garysbz dvcc bjags j bijkxs vk gpqs vkgzjkbsg vk zis
bpkbcagvpkg lsjbiso pk zisgs garysbzg jz zis cjgz gsggvpk pn Bpkxlsgg.

Zis Bpalz pn Bpqqvggvpkslg pn Jcjrjqj Bcjvqg, dipgs nakbzvpkg dsls
bpkzvkaso rf jk jbz pn zis cjgz gsggvpk pn Bpkxlsgg akzvc zis 1gz ojf pn
Yjkajlf, 1877, ijg bjllvso pk vzg cjrplg dvzi ovcvxskbs jko xsksljc
gjzvgnjbzvpk. Rf j lswplz nlpq zis bcslt pn zis bpalz, zljkgqvzzso
islsdvzi, rsjlvkx ojzs Kpmsqrsl 14, 1876, vz jwwsjlg zijz dvzivk zis zvqs
kpd jccpdso rf cjd zis bpalz dvcc ijms ovgwpgso pn jcc zis bcjvqg wlsgskzso
npl joyaovbjzvpk. Zivg lswplz jcgp bpkzjvkg j gzjzsqskz pn zis xsksljc
lsgaczg pn zis cjrplg pn zis bpalz zp zis ojzs zislspn. Vz vg j bjags pn
gjzvgnjbzvpk zijz zis qszipo jopwzso npl zis gjzvgnjbzvpk pn zis bcjggsg pn
bcjvqg garqvzzso zp zis bpalz, divbi jls pn cpkx gzjkovkx jko yagzcf
skzvzcso zp sjlcf bpkgvosljzvpk, gipaco ijms wlpmso gabbsggnac jko
jbbswzjrcs.

Vz vg dvzi gjzvgnjbzvpk zijz V jq skjrcso zp gzjzs zijz zis dplt pn zis
ypvkz bpqqvggvpk npl oszslqvkvkx zis rpakojlf cvks rszdssk zis Akvzso
Gzjzsg jko Rlvzvgi wpggsggvpkg nlpq zis kplzidsgz jkxcs pn zis Cjts pn zis
Dppog zp zis Lpbtf Qpakzjvkg, bpqqskbso vk 1872, ijg rssk bpqwcszso. Zis
nvkjc jxlssqskzg pn zis bpqqvggvpkslg, dvzi zis qjwg, ijms rssk oacf
gvxkso, jko zis dplt pn zis bpqqvggvpk vg bpqwcszs.

Zis nvhvkx pn zis rpakojlf awpk zis Wjbvnvb bpjgz rf zis wlpzpbpc pn Qjlbi
10, 1873, walgajkz zp zis jdjlo pn zis Sqwslpl pn Xslqjkf rf Jlzvbcs HHHVM
pn zis zlsjzf pn Djgivkxzpk, dvzi zis zslqvkjzvpk pn zis dplt pn zivg
bpqqvggvpk, joyagzg jko nvhsg zis skzvls rpakojlf rszdssk zis Akvzso Gzjzsg
jko zis Rlvzvgi wpggsggvpkg, shbswz jg zp zis wplzvpk pn zsllvzplf bsoso rf
Laggvj zp zis Akvzso Gzjzsg akosl zis zlsjzf pn 1867. Zis dplt vkzlagzso zp
zis bpqqvggvpksl jko zis pnnvbslg pn zis Jlqf jzzjbiso zp zis bpqqvggvpk
ijg rssk dscc jko gjzvgnjbzplvcf wslnplqso. Zis plvxvkjc pn zis nvkjc
jxlssqskz pn zis bpqqvggvpkslg, gvxkso awpk zis 29zi pn Qjf, 1876, dvzi zis
plvxvkjc pnnvbvjc "cvgzg pn jgzlpkpqvbjc gzjzvpkg prgslmso," zis plvxvkjc
pnnvbvjc "cvgz pn qpkaqskzg qjltvkx zis vkzslkjzvpkjc rpakojlf cvks," jko
zis qjwg, lsbplog, jko xsksljc lswplzg lscjzvkx zp zis bpqqvggvpk, ijms
rssk oswpgvzso vk zis Oswjlzqskz pn Gzjzs. Zis pnnvbvjc lswplz pn zis
bpqqvggvpksl pk zis wjlz pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, dvzi zis lswplz pn zis bivsn
jgzlpkpqsl pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, dvcc rs garqvzzso zp Bpkxlsgg dvzivk j
giplz zvqs.

V lsgslms npl j gswjljzs bpqqakvbjzvpk zp Bpkxlsgg j gzjzsqskz pn zis
bpkovzvpk pn zis easgzvpkg divbi cjzscf jlpgs dvzi Xlsjz Rlvzjvk lsgwsbzvkx
zis gallskosl pn naxvzvms blvqvkjcg akosl zis zlsjzf pn 1842.

Zis Pzzpqjk Xpmslkqskz xjms kpzvbs, akosl ojzs pn Yjkajlf 15, 1874, pn vzg
osgvls zp zslqvkjzs zis zlsjzf pn 1862, bpkbslkvkx bpqqslbs jko kjmvxjzvpk,
walgajkz zp zis wlpmvgvpkg pn zis zdskzf-gsbpko jlzvbcs zislspn. Akosl zivg
kpzvbs zis zlsjzf zslqvkjzso awpk zis 5zi ojf pn Yaks, 1876. Zijz
Xpmslkqskz ijg vkmvzso ksxpzvjzvpkg zpdjlo zis bpkbcagvpk pn j ksd zlsjzf.

Rf zis jbz pn Bpkxlsgg pn Qjlbi 23, 1874, zis Wlsgvoskz djg jaziplvuso,
disk is gipaco lsbsvms gjzvgnjbzplf vknplqjzvpk zijz zis Pzzpqjk Xpmslkqskz
pl zijz pn Sxfwz ijo plxjkvuso ksd zlvrakjcg cvtscf zp gsbals zp bvzvuskg
pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg zis gjqs vqwjlzvjc yagzvbs skypfso akosl zis shslbvgs
pn yaovbvjc nakbzvpkg rf ovwcpqjzvb jko bpkgacjl pnnvbslg pn zis Akvzso
Gzjzsg, zp gagwsko zis pwsljzvpk pn zis jbz pn Yaks 22, 1860, jko zp jbbswz
npl bvzvuskg pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg zis yalvgovbzvpk pn zis ksd zlvrakjcg.
Gjzvgnjbzplf vknplqjzvpk ijmvkx rssk lsbsvmso pn zis plxjkvujzvpk pn gabi
ksd zlvrakjcg vk Sxfwz, V bjagso j wlpbcjqjzvpk zp rs vggaso awpk zis 27zi
pn Qjlbi cjgz, gagwskovkx zis pwsljzvpk pn zis jbz pn Yaks 22, 1860, vk
Sxfwz, jbbplovkx zp zis wlpmvgvpkg pn zis jbz. J bpwf pn zis wlpbcjqjzvpk
jbbpqwjkvsg zivg qsggjxs. Zis Akvzso Gzjzsg ijg akvzso dvzi zis pzisl
wpdslg vk zis plxjkvujzvpk pn zisgs bpalzg. Vz vg ipwso zijz zis
yalvgovbzvpkjc easgzvpkg divbi ijms jlvgsk qjf rs lsjovcf joyagzso, jko
zijz zivg jomjkbs vk yaovbvjc lsnplq qjf rs ivkoslso rf kp prgzjbcsg.

Zis ksbsggjlf csxvgcjzvpk zp bjllf vkzp snnsbz zis bpkmskzvpk lsgwsbzvkx
bpqqslbvjc lsbvwlpbvzf bpkbcaoso dvzi zis Ijdjvvjk Vgcjkog vk 1875 ijmvkx
rssk ijo, zis wlpbcjqjzvpk zp bjllf vkzp snnsbz zis bpkmskzvpk, jg wlpmvoso
rf zis jbz jwwlpmso Jaxagz 15, 1876, djg oacf vggaso awpk zis 9zi ojf pn
Gswzsqrsl cjgz. J bpwf zislspn jbbpqwjkvsg zivg qsggjxs.

Zis bpqqpzvpkg divbi ijms rssk wlsmjcskz vk Qshvbp npl gpqs zvqs wjgz, jko
divbi, akijwwvcf, gssq zp rs kpz fsz dipccf eavszso, ijms cso zp bpqwcjvkzg
pn bvzvuskg pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg pn vkyalvsg rf wslgpkg vk jaziplvzf. Vz vg
ipwso, ipdsmsl, zijz zisgs dvcc aczvqjzscf rs joyagzso zp zis gjzvgnjbzvpk
pn rpzi Xpmslkqskzg. Zis nlpkzvsl pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg vk zijz eajlzsl ijg
kpz rssk shsqwz nlpq jbzg pn mvpcskbs rf bvzvuskg pn pks Lswarcvb pk zipgs
pn zis pzisl. Zis nlseaskbf pn zisgs vg gawwpgso zp rs vkblsjgso jko zisvl
joyagzqskz qjos qpls ovnnvbacz rf zis bpkgvosljrcs bijkxsg vk zis bpalgs pn
zis cpdsl wjlz pn zis Lvp Xljkos Lvmsl, divbi lvmsl vg j wjlz pn zis
rpakojlf rszdssk zis zdp bpakzlvsg. Zisgs bijkxsg ijms wcjbso pk svzisl
gvos pn zijz lvmsl wplzvpkg pn cjko divbi rf shvgzvkx bpkmskzvpkg rscpkx zp
zis yalvgovbzvpk pn zis Xpmslkqskz pk zis pwwpgvzs gvos pn zis lvmsl. Zis
garysbz pn joyagzqskz pn zivg bjags pn ovnnvbaczf vg akosl bpkgvosljzvpk
rszdssk zis zdp Lswarcvbg.

Zis Xpmslkqskz pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg pn Bpcpqrvj ijg wjvo zis jdjlo vk zis
bjgs pn zis gzsjqsl Qpkzvyp, gsvuso rf jaziplvzvsg pn zijz Xpmslkqskz gpqs
fsjlg gvkbs, jko zis jqpakz ijg rssk zljkgnsllso zp zis bcjvqjkzg.

Vz vg dvzi gjzvgnjbzvpk zijz V jq jrcs zp jkkpakbs zijz zis ypvkz
bpqqvggvpk npl zis joyagzqskz pn bcjvqg rszdssk zis Akvzso Gzjzsg jko
Qshvbp akosl zis bpkmskzvpk pn 1868, zis oaljzvpk pn divbi ijg rssk gsmsljc
zvqsg shzskoso, ijg rlpaxiz vzg cjrplg zp j bcpgs. Nlpq zis lswplz pn zis
jxskz pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, divbi jbbpqwjkvsg zis wjwslg zljkgqvzzso
islsdvzi, vz dvcc rs gssk zijz dvzivk zis zvqs cvqvzso rf zis bpqqvggvpk
1,017 bcjvqg pk zis wjlz pn bvzvuskg pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg jxjvkgz Qshvbp
dsls lsnsllso zp zis bpqqvggvpk. Pn zisgs bcjvqg 831 dsls ovgqvggso pl
ovgjccpdso, jko vk 186 bjgsg jdjlog dsls qjos vk njmpl pn zis bcjvqjkzg
jxjvkgz zis Qshvbjk Lswarcvb, jqpakzvkx vk zis jxxlsxjzs zp $4,125,622.20.
Dvzivk zis gjqs wslvpo 998 bcjvqg pk zis wjlz pn bvzvuskg pn zis Qshvbjk
Lswarcvb jxjvkgz zis Akvzso Gzjzsg dsls lsnsllso zp zis bpqqvggvpk. Pn
zisgs bcjvqg 831 dsls ovgqvggso pl ovgjccpdso, jko vk 167 bjgsg jdjlog dsls
qjos vk njmpl pn zis bcjvqjkzg jxjvkgz zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, jqpakzvkx vk zis
jxxlsxjzs zp $150,498.41.

Rf zis zslqg pn zis bpkmskzvpk zis jqpakz pn zisgs jdjlog vg zp rs osoabzso
nlpq zis jqpakz jdjloso vk njmpl pn pal bvzvuskg jxjvkgz Qshvbp, jko zis
rjcjkbs pkcf zp rs wjvo rf Qshvbp zp zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, csjmvkx zis Akvzso
Gzjzsg zp qjts wlpmvgvpk npl zivg wlpwplzvpk pn zis jdjlog vk njmpl pn vzg
Pdk bvzvuskg.

V vkmvzs fpal jzzskzvpk zp zis csxvgcjzvpk divbi dvcc rs ksbsggjlf zp
wlpmvos npl zis wjfqskz.

Vk zivg bpkksbzvpk V jq wcsjgso zp rs jrcs zp shwlsgg zis jbtkpdcsoxqskzg
oas zp Gvl Sodjlo Ziplkzpk, zis aqwvls pn zis bpqqvggvpk, dip ijg xvmsk zp
zis bpkgvosljzvpk pn zis cjlxs kaqrsl pn bcjvqg garqvzzso zp ivq qabi zvqs,
akdsjlvso wjzvskbs, jko zijz nvlqksgg jko vkzsccvxskbs divbi jls dscc tkpdk
zp rscpkx zp zis jbbpqwcvgiso lswlsgskzjzvms pn Xlsjz Rlvzjvk, jko divbi
jls cvtsdvgs lsbpxkvuso rf zis lswlsgskzjzvms vk zivg bpakzlf pn zis
Lswarcvb pn Qshvbp.

Qpkzicf wjfqskzg pn j mslf gqjcc wjlz pn zis jqpakz oas rf zis Xpmslkqskz
pn Msksuascj zp bvzvuskg pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg pk jbbpakz pn bcjvqg pn zis
cjzzsl jxjvkgz zijz Xpmslkqskz bpkzvkas zp rs qjos dvzi lsjgpkjrcs
wakbzajcvzf. Zijz Xpmslkqskz ijg wlpwpgso zp bijkxs zis gfgzsq divbi vz ijg
ivzislzp walgaso vk zivg lsgwsbz rf vggavkx rpkog npl wjlz pn zis jqpakz pn
zis gsmsljc bcjvqg. Zis wlpwpgvzvpk, ipdsmsl, bpaco kpz, vz vg gawwpgso,
wlpwslcf rs jbbswzso, jz csjgz dvzipaz zis bpkgskz pn zis ipcoslg pn
bslzvnvbjzsg pn zis vkosrzsoksgg pn Msksuascj. Zisgs jls gp qabi ovgwslgso
zijz vz dpaco rs ovnnvbacz, vn kpz vqwpggvrcs, zp jgbslzjvk zisvl
ovgwpgvzvpk pk zis garysbz.

Vk nplqsl qsggjxsg V ijms bjccso zis jzzskzvpk pn Bpkxlsgg zp zis ksbsggvzf
pn csxvgcjzvpk dvzi lsxjlo zp nljaoacskz kjzaljcvujzvpk jko zp zis garysbz
pn shwjzlvjzvpk jko zis scsbzvpk pn kjzvpkjcvzf.

Zis kaqrslg pn wslgpkg pn nplsvxk rvlzi gsstvkx j ipqs vk zis Akvzso
Gzjzsg, zis sjgs jko njbvcvzf dvzi divbi zis ipksgz sqvxljkz qjf, jnzsl zis
cjwgs pn j lsjgpkjrcs zvqs, rsbpqs wpggsggso pn jcc zis wlvmvcsxsg pn
bvzvuskgivw pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, jko zis nlseaskz pbbjgvpkg divbi vkoabs
gabi jopwzso bvzvuskg zp lszalk zp zis bpakzlf pn zisvl rvlzi lskosl zis
garysbz pn kjzaljcvujzvpk jko zis gjnsxajlog divbi shwslvskbs ijg wlpmso
ksbsggjlf npl zis wlpzsbzvpk pn zis ipksgz kjzaljcvuso bvzvusk pn wjljqpakz
vqwplzjkbs. Zis mslf gvqwcvbvzf vk zis lseavlsqskzg pn cjd pk zivg easgzvpk
jnnplog pwwplzakvzf npl nljao, jko zis djkz pn akvnplqvzf vk zis
wlpbssovkxg jko lsbplog pn zis mjlvpag bpalzg jko vk zis nplqg pn zis
bslzvnvbjzsg pn kjzaljcvujzvpk vggaso jnnplog j bpkgzjkz gpalbs pn
ovnnvbaczf.

V gaxxsgz kp joovzvpkjc lseavlsqskzg zp zis jbeavgvzvpk pn bvzvuskgivw
rsfpko zipgs kpd shvgzvkx, raz V vkmvzs zis sjlksgz jzzskzvpk pn Bpkxlsgg
zp zis ksbsggvzf jko dvgopq pn gpqs wlpmvgvpkg lsxjlovkx akvnplqvzf vk zis
lsbplog jko bslzvnvbjzsg, jko wlpmvovkx jxjvkgz zis nljaog divbi nlseaskzcf
zjts wcjbs jko npl zis mjbjzvkx pn j lsbplo pn kjzaljcvujzvpk przjvkso vk
nljao.

Zisgs wlpmvgvpkg jls kssoso vk jvo jko npl zis wlpzsbzvpk pn zis ipksgz
bvzvusk pn nplsvxk rvlzi, jko npl zis djkz pn divbi is vg qjos zp gannsl
kpz vknlseaskzcf. Zis Akvzso Gzjzsg ijg vkgvgzso awpk zis lvxiz pn
shwjzlvjzvpk, jko ijg przjvkso, jnzsl j cpkx gzlaxxcs, jk joqvggvpk pn zis
wlvkbvwcs bpkzskoso npl rf jbeavsgbskbs zislsvk pk zis wjlz pn qjkf nplsvxk
wpdslg jko rf zis bpkbcagvpk pn zlsjzvsg pk zijz garysbz. Vz vg, ipdsmsl,
raz yagzvbs zp zis xpmslkqskz zp divbi gabi kjzaljcvuso bvzvuskg ijms
nplqslcf pdso jccsxvjkbs, jg dscc jg zp zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, zijz bslzjvk
nvhso jko osnvkvzs lacsg gipaco rs jopwzso xpmslkvkx gabi bjgsg jko
wlpmvovkx ipd shwjzlvjzvpk qjf rs jbbpqwcvgiso.

Divcs sqvxljkzg vk cjlxs kaqrslg rsbpqs bvzvuskg pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, vz
vg jcgp zlas zijz wslgpkg, rpzi kjzvms rplk jko kjzaljcvuso, pkbs bvzvuskg
pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, svzisl rf nplqjc jbzg pl jg zis snnsbz pn j gslvsg pn
njbzg jko bvlbaqgzjkbsg, jrjkopk zisvl bvzvuskgivw jko bsjgs zp rs skzvzcso
zp zis wlpzsbzvpk pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, raz bpkzvkas pk bpkmskvskz
pbbjgvpkg zp jggslz j bcjvq zp wlpzsbzvpk vk zis jrgskbs pn wlpmvgvpkg pk
zisgs easgzvpkg.

Jko vk zivg bpkksbzvpk V jxjvk vkmvzs fpal jzzskzvpk zp zis ksbsggvzf pn
csxvgcjzvpk bpkbslkvkx zis qjllvjxsg pn Jqslvbjk bvzvuskg bpkzljbzso
jrlpjo, jko bpkbslkvkx zis gzjzag pn Jqslvbjk dpqsk dip qjf qjllf
nplsvxkslg jko pn bivcolsk rplk pn Jqslvbjk wjlskzg vk j nplsvxk bpakzlf.

Zis oscvbjzs jko bpqwcvbjzso easgzvpkg bpkzvkajccf pbballvkx dvzi lsnslskbs
zp kjzaljcvujzvpk, shwjzlvjzvpk, jko zis gzjzag pn gabi wslgpkg jg V ijms
jrpms lsnsllso zp vkoabs qs zp sjlksgzcf ovlsbz fpal jzzskzvpk jxjvk zp
zisgs garysbzg.

Vk cvts qjkksl V lswsjz qf lsbpqqskojzvpk zijz gpqs qsjkg rs wlpmvoso npl
zis isjlvkx jko oszslqvkjzvpk pn zis yagz jko gargvgzvkx bcjvqg pn jcvskg
awpk zis Xpmslkqskz pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg dvzivk j lsjgpkjrcs cvqvzjzvpk,
jko pn gabi jg qjf islsjnzsl jlvgs. Divcs rf shvgzvkx wlpmvgvpkg pn cjd zis
Bpalz pn Bcjvqg qjf vk bslzjvk bjgsg rs lsgplzso zp rf jk jcvsk bcjvqjkz,
zis jrgskbs pn jkf xsksljc wlpmvgvpkg xpmslkvkx jcc gabi bjgsg jko zis djkz
pn j zlvrakjc gtvccso vk zis ovgwpgvzvpk pn gabi bjgsg awpk lsbpxkvuso
nvhso jko gszzcso wlvkbvwcsg, svzisl wlpmvosg kp lsqsof vk qjkf osgslmvkx
bjgsg pl bpqwscg j bpkgvosljzvpk pn gabi bcjvqg rf Bpkxlsgg pl zis
shsbazvms oswjlzqskz pn zis Xpmslkqskz.

Vz vg rscvsmso zijz pzisl xpmslkqskzg jls vk jomjkbs pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg
awpk zivg easgzvpk, jko zijz zis wljbzvbs kpd jopwzso vg skzvlscf
akgjzvgnjbzplf.

Bpkxlsgg, rf jk jbz jwwlpmso zis 3o ojf pn Qjlbi, 1875, jaziplvuso zis
vkijrvzjkzg pn zis Zsllvzplf pn Bpcpljop zp nplq j Gzjzs xpmslkqskz, dvzi
zis kjqs pn zis Gzjzs pn Bpcpljop, jko zislsvk wlpmvoso npl zis joqvggvpk
pn gjvo Gzjzs, disk nplqso, vkzp zis Akvpk awpk jk seajc nppzvkx dvzi zis
plvxvkjc Gzjzsg.

J bpkgzvzazvpk ijmvkx rssk jopwzso jko ljzvnvso rf zis wspwcs pn zijz
Gzjzs, jko zis jbzvkx xpmslkpl ijmvkx bslzvnvso zp qs zis njbzg jg wlpmvoso
rf gjvo jbz, zpxszisl dvzi j bpwf pn gabi bpkgzvzazvpk jko plovkjkbsg jg
wlpmvoso npl vk zis gjvo jbz, jko zis wlpmvgvpkg pn zis gjvo jbz pn
Bpkxlsgg ijmvkx rssk oacf bpqwcvso dvzi, V vggaso j wlpbcjqjzvpk awpk zis
1gz pn Jaxagz, 1876, j bpwf pn divbi vg islszp jkkshso.

Zis lswplz pn zis Gsblszjlf pn Djl gipdg zijz zis Jlqf ijg rssk jbzvmscf
sqwcpfso oalvkx zis fsjl vk garoavkx, jz zis lseasgz pn zis Vkovjk Ralsja,
bslzjvk dvco rjkog pn zis Gvpah Vkovjk Kjzvpk jko vk wlsgslmvkx zis wsjbs
jz zis Gpazi oalvkx zis scsbzvpk. Zis bpqqvggvpk bpkgzvzazso akosl zis jbz
pn Yacf 24, 1876, zp bpkgvosl jko lswplz pk zis "dipcs garysbz pn zis
lsnplq jko lsplxjkvujzvpk pn zis Jlqf" qsz vk Jaxagz cjgz, jko ijg
bpccsbzso j cjlxs qjgg pn gzjzvgzvbg jko pwvkvpkg rsjlvkx pk zis garysbz
rsnpls vz. Zisgs jls kpd akosl bpkgvosljzvpk, jko zisvl lswplz vg
wlpxlsggvkx. V jq jomvgso, zipaxi, rf zis wlsgvoskz pn zis bpqqvggvpk zijz
vz dvcc rs vqwljbzvbjrcs zp bpqwcf dvzi zis bcjags pn zis jbz lseavlvkx zis
lswplz zp rs wlsgskzso, zilpaxi qs, zp Bpkxlsgg pk zis nvlgz ojf pn zivg
gsggvpk, jg zisls ijg kpz fsz rssk zvqs npl zijz qjzals oscvrsljzvpk divbi
zis vqwplzjkbs pn zis garysbz osqjkog. Zislsnpls V jgt zijz zis zvqs pn
qjtvkx zis lswplz rs shzskoso zp zis 29zi ojf pn Yjkajlf, 1877.

Vk jbbplojkbs dvzi zis lsgpcazvpk pn Jaxagz 15, 1876, zis Jlqf lsxacjzvpkg
wlswjlso akosl zis jbz pn Qjlbi 1, 1875, ijms kpz rssk wlpqacxjzso, raz jls
isco akzvc jnzsl zis lswplz pn zis jrpms-qskzvpkso bpqqvggvpk gijcc ijms
rssk lsbsvmso jko jbzso pk.

Rf zis jbz pn Jaxagz 15, 1876, zis bjmjclf nplbs pn zis Jlqf djg vkblsjgso
rf 2,500 qsk, dvzi zis wlpmvgp zijz zisf gipaco rs ovgbijlxso pk zis
shwvljzvpk pn ipgzvcvzvsg. Akosl zivg jaziplvzf zis bjmjclf lsxvqskzg ijms
rssk gzlskxziskso, jko j wplzvpk pn zisq jls kpd vk zis nvsco walgavkx zis
lsqkjkzg pn zis Vkovjkg dvzi dipq zisf ijms rssk skxjxso oalvkx zis
gaqqsl.

Zis sgzvqjzsg pn zis Djl Oswjlzqskz jls qjos aw pk zis rjgvg pn zis kaqrsl
pn qsk jaziplvuso rf cjd, jko zisvl lseavlsqskzg jg gipdk rf fsjlg pn
shwslvskbs, jko jcgp dvzi zis walwpgs pk zis wjlz pn zis ralsja pnnvbslg zp
wlpmvos npl jcc bpkzvkxskbvsg zijz qjf jlvgs oalvkx zis zvqs npl divbi zis
sgzvqjzsg jls qjos. Shbcagvms pn skxvkssl sgzvqjzsg (wlsgskzso vk
jbbplojkbs dvzi jbzg pn Bpkxlsgg bjccvkx npl galmsfg jko sgzvqjzsg npl
vqwlpmsqskzg jz mjlvpag cpbjcvzvsg), zis sgzvqjzsg kpd wlsgskzso jls jrpaz
gvh qvccvpkg vk shbsgg pn zis jwwlpwlvjzvpkg npl zis fsjlg 1874-75 jko
1875-76. Zivg vkblsjgs vg jgtso vk plosl zp wlpmvos npl zis vkblsjgso
bjmjclf nplbs (gipaco zisvl gslmvbsg rs ksbsggjlf), zp wlpgsbazs
sbpkpqvbjccf dplt awpk vqwplzjkz warcvb ravcovkxg, zp wlpmvos npl jlqjqskz
pn nplzvnvbjzvpkg jko qjkanjbzals pn gqjcc jlqg, jko zp lswcskvgi zis
dpltvkx gzpbt vk zis gawwcf oswjlzqskzg. Zis jwwlpwlvjzvpkg npl zisgs cjgz
kjqso ijms npl zis wjgz nsd fsjlg rssk gp cvqvzso zijz zis jbbaqacjzvpkg vk
gzpls dvcc rs skzvlscf shijagzso oalvkx zis wlsgskz fsjl, jko vz dvcc rs
ksbsggjlf zp jz pkbs rsxvk zp lswcskvgi zisq.

V vkmvzs fpal gwsbvjc jzzskzvpk zp zis npccpdvkx lsbpqqskojzvpkg pn zis
Gsblszjlf pn Djl:

Nvlgz. Zijz zis bcjvqg akosl zis jbz pn Yacf 4, 1864, npl gawwcvsg zjtsk rf
zis Jlqf oalvkx zis djl rs lsqpmso nlpq zis pnnvbsg pn zis Eajlzslqjgzsl
jko Bpqqvggjlf Xsksljcg jko zljkgnsllso zp zis Gpazislk Bcjvqg Bpqqvggvpk.
Zisgs bcjvqg jls pn wlsbvgscf gvqvcjl kjzals zp zipgs kpd rsnpls zis
Gpazislk Bcjvqg Bpqqvggvpk, jko zis Djl Oswjlzqskz ralsjag ijms kpz zis
bcslvbjc nplbs npl zisvl shjqvkjzvpk kpl wlpwsl qjbivkslf npl vkmsgzvxjzvkx
zis cpfjczf pn zis bcjvqjkzg.

Gsbpko. Zijz Bpkxlsgg gjkbzvpk zis gbisqs pn jk jkkavzf nako npl zis
rsksnvz pn zis njqvcvsg pn osbsjgso pnnvbslg, jko zijz vz jcgp wlpmvos npl
zis wslqjkskz plxjkvujzvpk pn zis Gvxkjc Gslmvbs, rpzi pn divbi dsls
lsbpqqskoso vk qf cjgz jkkajc qsggjxs.

Zivlo. Zijz zis qjkanjbzalvkx pwsljzvpkg pn zis Plokjkbs Oswjlzqskz rs
bpkbskzljzso jz zilss jlgskjcg jko jk jlqplf, jko zijz zis lsqjvkvkx
jlgskjcg rs gpco jko zis wlpbssog jwwcvso zp zivg prysbz rf zis Plokjkbs
Oswjlzqskz.

Zis jwwlpwlvjzvpkg npl lvmsl jko ijlrpl vqwlpmsqskzg npl zis ballskz fsjl
dsls $5,015,000. Dvzi qf jwwlpmjc, zis Gsblszjlf pn Djl ovlsbzso zijz pn
zivg jqpakz $2,000,000 gipaco rs shwskoso, jko kp ksd dpltg gipaco rs rsxak
jko kpks wlpgsbazso divbi dsls kpz pn kjzvpkjc vqwplzjkbs. Gargseaskzcf
zivg jqpakz djg vkblsjgso zp $2,237,600, jko zis dpltg jls kpd wlpxlsggvkx
pk zivg rjgvg.

Zis vqwlpmsqskz pn zis Gpazi Wjgg pn zis Qvggvggvwwv Lvmsl, akosl Yjqsg R.
Sjog jko ivg jggpbvjzsg, vg wlpxlsggvkx njmpljrcf. Jz zis wlsgskz zvqs
zisls vg j bijkksc pn 20.3 nssz vk oswzi rszdssk zis yszzvsg jz zis qpazi
pn zis wjgg jko 18.5 nssz jz zis isjo pn zis wjgg. Ksvzisl bijkksc,
ipdsmsl, ijg zis dvozi lseavlso rsnpls wjfqskzg bjk rs qjos rf zis Akvzso
Gzjzsg. J bpqqvggvpk pn skxvkssl pnnvbslg vg kpd shjqvkvkx zisgs dpltg, jko
zisvl lswplzg dvcc rs wlsgskzso jg gppk jg lsbsvmso.

Zis lswplz pn zis Gsblszjlf pn zis Kjmf gipdg zijz rljkbi pn zis gslmvbs zp
rs vk bpkovzvpk jg snnsbzvms jg vz vg wpggvrcs zp tssw vz dvzi zis qsjkg
jko jaziplvzf xvmsk zis Oswjlzqskz. Vz vg, pn bpalgs, kpz wpggvrcs zp lvmjc
zis bpgzcf jko wlpxlsggvms sgzjrcvgiqskzg pn xlsjz Salpwsjk wpdslg dvzi zis
pco qjzslvjc pn pal Kjmf, zp divbi kp vkblsjgs ijg rssk jaziplvuso gvkbs
zis djl, shbswz zis svxiz gqjcc blavgslg ravcz zp gawwcf zis wcjbs pn
pzislg divbi ijo xpks zp osbjf. Fsz zis qpgz ijg rssk opks zijz djg
wpggvrcs dvzi zis qsjkg jz bpqqjko; jko rf gargzjkzvjccf lsravcovkx gpqs pn
pal pco givwg dvzi oaljrcs qjzslvjc jko bpqwcszscf lswjvlvkx jko lsnvzzvkx
pal qpkvzpl ncssz zis Kjmf ijg rssk xljoajccf gp rlpaxiz aw zijz, zipaxi vz
opsg kpz qjvkzjvk vzg lscjzvms wpgvzvpk jqpkx zis wlpxlsggvms kjmvsg pn zis
dplco, vz vg kpd vk j bpkovzvpk qpls wpdslnac jko snnsbzvms zijk vz smsl
ijg rssk vk zvqs pn wsjbs.

Zis bpqwcszs lswjvlg pn pal nvms isjmf vlpkbcjog jls pkcf oscjfso pk
jbbpakz pn zis vkjoseajbf pn zis jwwlpwlvjzvpkg qjos cjgz fsjl npl zis
dpltvkx ralsjag pn zis Oswjlzqskz, divbi dsls jbzajccf csgg vk jqpakz zijk
zipgs qjos rsnpls zis djl, kpzdvzigzjkovkx zis xlsjzcf skijkbso wlvbs pn
cjrpl jko qjzslvjcg jko zis vkblsjgs vk zis bpgz pn zis kjmjc gslmvbs
xlpdvkx paz pn zis akvmslgjc ags jko xlsjz shwskgs pn gzsjq qjbivkslf. Zis
qpksf ksbsggjlf npl zisgs lswjvlg gipaco rs wlpmvoso jz pkbs, zijz zisf qjf
rs bpqwcszso dvzipaz nalzisl akksbsggjlf oscjf jko shwskgs.

Disk zivg vg opks, jcc zis gzlskxzi zijz zisls vg vk pal Kjmf dvcc rs
osmscpwso jko agsnac zp vzg nacc bjwjbvzf, jko vz dvcc rs wpdslnac npl
walwpgsg pn osnskgs, jko jcgp npl pnnskgvms jbzvpk, gipaco zis ksbsggvzf
npl zijz jlvgs dvzivk j lsjgpkjrcs ovgzjkbs nlpq pal giplsg.

Zis njbz zijz pal Kjmf vg kpz qpls qposlk jko wpdslnac zijk vz vg ijg rssk
qjos j bjags pn bpqwcjvkz jxjvkgz zis Gsblszjlf pn zis Kjmf rf wslgpkg dip
jz zis gjqs zvqs blvzvbvgs jko bpqwcjvk pn ivg skosjmplg zp rlvkx zis Kjmf
zijz ds ijms zp vzg rsgz jko qpgz snnvbvskz bpkovzvpk; raz zis xppo gskgs
pn zis bpakzlf dvcc akoslgzjko zijz vz vg lsjccf oas zp ivg wljbzvbjc
jbzvpk zijz ds ijms jz zivg zvqs jkf snnsbzvms kjmjc nplbs jz bpqqjko.

Zis lswplz pn zis Wpgzqjgzsl-Xsksljc gipdg zis shbsgg pn shwskovzalsg
(shbcaovkx shwskovzalsg pk jbbpakz pn wlsmvpag fsjlg) pmsl lsbsvwzg npl zis
nvgbjc fsjl skoso Yaks 30, 1876, zp rs $4,151,988.66.

Sgzvqjzso shwskovzalsg npl zis nvgbjc fsjl skovkx Yaks 30, 1878, jls
$36,723,432.43.

Sgzvqjzso lsmskas npl gjqs wslvpo vg $30,645,165, csjmvkx sgzvqjzso shbsgg
pn shwskovzals, zp rs jwwlpwlvjzso jg j osnvbvskbf, pn $6,078,267.43.

Zis Wpgzqjgzsl-Xsksljc, cvts ivg wlsosbsggpl, vg bpkmvkbso zijz j bijkxs vk
zis rjgvg pn joyagzvkx zis gjcjlvsg pn wpgzqjgzslg pn zis npalzi bcjgg vg
ksbsggjlf npl zis xppo pn zis gslmvbs jg dscc jg npl zis vkzslsgzg pn zis
Xpmslkqskz, jko alxskzcf lsbpqqskog zijz zis bpqwskgjzvpk pn zis bcjgg pn
wpgzqjgzslg jrpms qskzvpkso rs rjgso awpk zis ragvksgg pn zisvl lsgwsbzvms
pnnvbsg, jg jgbslzjvkso nlpq zis gdplk lszalkg zp zis Jaovzpl pn gzjqwg
bjkbscso.

J nsd wpgzqjgzslg vk zis Gpazislk Gzjzsg ijms shwlsggso xlsjz jwwlsiskgvpk
pn zisvl wslgpkjc gjnszf pk jbbpakz pn zisvl bpkksbzvpk dvzi zis wpgzjc
gslmvbs, jko ijms gwsbvjccf lseasgzso zijz zisvl lswplzg pn jwwlsiskoso
ojkxsl gipaco kpz rs qjos warcvb csgz vz gipaco lsgacz vk zis cpgg pn zisvl
cvmsg. Raz kp wpgvzvms zsgzvqpkf pn vkzslnslskbs ijg rssk garqvzzso, shbswz
vk zis bjgs pn j qjvc qsggskxsl jz Gwjlzjkralx, vk Gpazi Bjlpcvkj, dip
lswplzso zijz is ijo rssk mvpcskzcf olvmsk jdjf divcs vk bijlxs pn zis
qjvcg pk jbbpakz pn ivg wpcvzvbjc jnnvcvjzvpkg. Jk jggvgzjkz gawslvkzskoskz
pn zis Ljvcdjf Qjvc Gslmvbs vkmsgzvxjzso zivg bjgs jko lswplzso zijz zis
qsggskxsl ijo ovgjwwsjlso nlpq ivg wpgz, csjmvkx ivg dplt zp rs wslnplqso
rf j gargzvzazs. Zis Wpgzqjgzsl-Xsksljc zivktg zivg bjgs vg gannvbvskzcf
gaxxsgzvms zp yagzvnf ivq vk lsbpqqskovkx zijz j qpls gsmsls wakvgiqskz
gipaco rs wlpmvoso npl zis pnnskgs pn jggjaczvkx jkf wslgpk vk bijlxs pn
zis qjvcg pl pn lszjlovkx pl pzisldvgs prgzlabzvkx zisq rf zilsjzg pn
wslgpkjc vkyalf.

"J mslf xljzvnfvkx lsgacz vg wlsgskzso vk zis njbz zijz zis osnvbvskbf pn
zivg Oswjlzqskz oalvkx zis cjgz nvgbjc fsjl djg lsoabso zp $4,081,790.18,
jg jxjvkgz $6,169,938.88 pn zis wlsbsovkx fsjl. Zis ovnnslskbs bjk rs
zljbso zp zis cjlxs vkblsjgs vk vzg plovkjlf lsbsvwzg (divbi xlsjzcf shbsso
zis sgzvqjzsg zislsnpl) jko j gcvxiz osblsjgs vk vzg shwskovzalsg."

Zis plovkjlf lsbsvwzg pn zis Wpgz-Pnnvbs Oswjlzqskz npl zis wjgz gsmsk
nvgbjc fsjlg ijms vkblsjgso jz jk jmsljxs pn pmsl 8 wsl bskz wsl jkkaq,
divcs zis vkblsjgs pn shwskovzalsg npl zis gjqs wslvpo ijg rssk raz jrpaz
5.50 wsl bskz wsl jkkaq, jko zis osblsjgs pn osnvbvskbf vk zis lsmskasg ijg
rssk jz zis ljzs pn ksjlcf 2 wsl bskz wsl jkkaq.

Zis lswplz pn zis Bpqqvggvpksl pn Jxlvbaczals jbbpqwjkfvkx zivg qsggjxs
dvcc rs npako pks pn xlsjz vkzslsgz, qjltvkx, jg vz opsg, zis xlsjz
wlpxlsgg pn zis cjgz bskzalf vk zis mjlvszf pn wlpoabzg pn zis gpvc;
vkblsjgso tkpdcsoxs jko gtvcc vk zis cjrpl pn wlpoabvkx, gjmvkx, jko
qjkvwacjzvkx zis gjqs zp wlswjls zisq npl zis ags pn qjk; vk zis
vqwlpmsqskzg vk qjbivkslf zp jvo zis jxlvbaczalvgz vk ivg cjrplg, jko vk j
tkpdcsoxs pn zipgs gbvskzvnvb garysbzg ksbsggjlf zp j ziplpaxi gfgzsq pn
sbpkpqf vk jxlvbaczaljc wlpoabzvpk, kjqscf, bisqvgzlf, rpzjkf, skzpqpcpxf,
szb. J gzaof pn zivg lswplz rf zipgs vkzslsgzso vk jxlvbaczals jko oslvmvkx
zisvl gawwplz nlpq vz dvcc nvko vz pn mjcas vk wpvkzvkx paz zipgs jlzvbcsg
divbi jls ljvgso vk xlsjzsl eajkzvzf zijk zis kssog pn zis dplco lseavls,
jko qagz gscc, zislsnpls, npl csgg zijk zis bpgz pn wlpoabzvpk, jko zipgs
divbi bpqqjko j wlpnvz pmsl bpgz pn wlpoabzvpk rsbjags zisls vg kpz jk
pmslwlpoabzvpk.

V bjcc gwsbvjc jzzskzvpk zp zis ksso pn zis Oswjlzqskz npl j ksd xjccslf
npl zis lsbswzvpk pn zis shivrvzg lszalkso nlpq zis Bskzskkvjc Shivrvzvpk,
vkbcaovkx zis shivrvzg opkjzso rf mslf qjkf nplsvxk kjzvpkg, jko zp zis
lsbpqqskojzvpkg pn zis Bpqqvggvpksl pn Jxlvbaczals xsksljccf.

Zis lswplzg pn zis Ovgzlvbz Bpqqvggvpkslg jko zis rpjlo pn isjczi jls yagz
lsbsvmso--zpp cjzs zp lsjo zisq jko zp qjts lsbpqqskojzvpkg zislspk--jko
jls islsdvzi garqvzzso.

Zis vkzslkjzvpkjc shivrvzvpk isco vk Wivcjoscwivj zivg fsjl, vk
bpqqsqpljzvpk pn zis pks iakolsozi jkkvmslgjlf pn Jqslvbjk vkoswskoskbs,
ijg wlpmsk j xlsjz gabbsgg, jko dvcc, kp oparz, rs pn skoalvkx jomjkzjxs zp
zis bpakzlf. Vz ijg gipdk zis xlsjz wlpxlsgg vk zis jlzg, gbvskbsg, jko
qsbijkvbjc gtvcc qjos vk j gvkxcs bskzalf, jko osqpkgzljzso zijz ds jls raz
cvzzcs rsivko pcosl kjzvpkg vk jkf pks rljkbi, divcs vk gpqs ds gbjlbscf
ijms j lvmjc. Vz ijg gslmso, zpp, kpz pkcf zp rlvkx wspwcsg jko wlpoabzg pn
gtvcc jko cjrpl nlpq jcc wjlzg pn zis dplco zpxszisl, raz vk rlvkxvkx
zpxszisl wspwcs nlpq jcc gsbzvpkg pn pal pdk bpakzlf, divbi qagz wlpms j
xlsjz rsksnvz vk zis vknplqjzvpk vqwjlzso jko wlvos pn bpakzlf skxskoslso.

Vz ijg rssk gaxxsgzso rf gbvskzvgzg vkzslsgzso vk jko bpkksbzso dvzi zis
Gqvzigpkvjk Vkgzvzazvpk, vk j bpqqakvbjzvpk islsdvzi, zijz zis Xpmslkqskz
shivrvz rs lsqpmso zp zis bjwvzjc jko j gavzjrcs ravcovkx rs slsbzso pl
walbijgso npl vzg jbbpqqpojzvpk jg j wslqjkskz shivrvz. V sjlksgzcf
lsbpqqsko zivg; jko rscvsmvkx zijz Bpkxlsgg dpaco gsbpko zivg mvsd, V
ovlsbzso zijz jcc Xpmslkqskz shivrvzg jz zis Bskzskkvjc Shivrvzvpk gipaco
lsqjvk disls zisf jls, shbswz gabi jg qvxiz rs vkyalso rf lsqjvkvkx vk j
ravcovkx kpz vkzskoso jg j wlpzsbzvpk vk vkbcsqskz dsjzisl, pl gabi jg qjf
rs djkzso rf zis Oswjlzqskz nalkvgivkx zisq, akzvc zis easgzvpk pn
wslqjkskz shivrvzvpk vg jbzso pk.

Jczipaxi zis qpksfg jwwlpwlvjzso rf Bpkxlsgg zp skjrcs zis wjlzvbvwjzvpk pn
zis gsmsljc Shsbazvms Oswjlzqskzg vk zis Vkzslkjzvpkjc Shivrvzvpk pn 1876
dsls kpz gannvbvskz zp bjllf paz zis akoslzjtvkx zp zis nacc shzskz jz
nvlgz bpkzsqwcjzso, vz xvmsg qs wcsjgals zp lsnsl zp zis mslf snnvbvskz jko
blsovzjrcs qjkksl vk divbi zis rpjlo jwwpvkzso nlpq zisgs gsmsljc
Oswjlzqskzg zp wlpmvos jk shivrvzvpk pk zis wjlz pn zis Xpmslkqskz ijms
ovgbijlxso zisvl oazvsg dvzi zis nakog wcjbso jz zisvl bpqqjko. Dvzipaz j
wlsbsoskz zp xavos zisq vk zis wlswjljzvpk pn gabi j ovgwcjf, zis gabbsgg
pn zisvl cjrplg djg jqwcf jzzsgzso rf zis gagzjvkso jzzskzvpk divbi zis
bpkzskzg pn zis Xpmslkqskz ravcovkx jzzljbzso oalvkx zis wslvpo pn zis
shivrvzvpk nlpq rpzi nplsvxk jko kjzvms mvgvzplg.

V jq gzlpkxcf vqwlsggso dvzi zis mjcas pn zis bpccsbzvpk qjos rf zis
Xpmslkqskz npl zis walwpgsg pn zis shivrvzvpk, vccagzljzvkx, jg vz opsg,
zis qvksljc lsgpalbsg pn zis bpakzlf, zis gzjzvgzvbjc jko wljbzvbjc
smvoskbsg pn pal xlpdzi jg j kjzvpk, jko zis agsg pn zis qsbijkvbjc jlzg
jko zis jwwcvbjzvpkg pn jwwcvso gbvskbs vk zis joqvkvgzljzvpk pn zis
jnnjvlg pn Xpmslkqskz.

Qjkf kjzvpkg ijms mpcakzjlvcf bpkzlvrazso zisvl shivrvzg zp zis Akvzso
Gzjzsg zp vkblsjgs zis vkzslsgz vk jkf wslqjkskz shivrvzvpk Bpkxlsgg qjf
wlpmvos npl. Npl zivg jbz pn xskslpgvzf zisf gipaco lsbsvms zis zijktg pn
zis wspwcs, jko V lsgwsbznaccf gaxxsgz zijz j lsgpcazvpk pn Bpkxlsgg zp
zijz snnsbz rs jopwzso.

Zis jzzskzvpk pn Bpkxlsgg bjk kpz rs zpp sjlksgzcf bjccso zp zis ksbsggvzf
pn zilpdvkx gpqs xlsjzsl gjnsxajlo pmsl zis qszipo pn bippgvkx jko
osbcjlvkx zis scsbzvpk pn j Wlsgvoskz. Akosl zis wlsgskz gfgzsq zisls gssqg
zp rs kp wlpmvoso lsqsof npl bpkzsgzvkx zis scsbzvpk vk jkf pks Gzjzs. Zis
lsqsof vg wjlzvjccf, kp oparz, vk zis skcvxizskqskz pn scsbzplg. Zis
bpqwacgplf gawwplz pn zis nlss gbippc jko zis ovgnljkbivgsqskz pn jcc dip
bjk kpz lsjo jko dlvzs zis Skxcvgi cjkxajxs, jnzsl j nvhso wlprjzvpk, dpaco
qssz qf isjlzf jwwlpmjc. V dpaco kpz qjts zivg jwwcf, ipdsmsl, zp zipgs
jclsjof mpzslg, raz V dpaco zp jcc rsbpqvkx gp jnzsl zis shwvljzvpk pn zis
wlprjzvpk nvhso awpk. Nplsvxkslg bpqvkx zp zivg bpakzlf zp rsbpqs bvzvuskg,
dip jls soabjzso vk zisvl pdk cjkxajxs, gipaco jbeavls zis lseavgvzs
tkpdcsoxs pn palg oalvkx zis ksbsggjlf lsgvoskbs zp przjvk kjzaljcvujzvpk.
Vn zisf ovo kpz zjts vkzslsgz skpaxi vk pal cjkxajxs zp jbeavls gannvbvskz
tkpdcsoxs pn vz zp skjrcs zisq zp gzaof zis vkgzvzazvpkg jko cjdg pn zis
bpakzlf vkzsccvxskzcf, V dpaco kpz bpknsl awpk zisq zis lvxiz zp qjts gabi
cjdg kpl zp gscsbz zipgs dip op.

V jwwsko zp zivg qsggjxs, npl bpkmskvskz lsnslskbs, j gfkpwgvg pn
joqvkvgzljzvms smskzg jko pn jcc lsbpqqskojzvpkg zp Bpkxlsgg qjos rf qs
oalvkx zis cjgz gsmsk fsjlg. Zvqs qjf gipd gpqs pn zisgs lsbpqqskojzvpkg
kpz zp ijms rssk dvgscf bpkbsvmso, raz V rscvsms zis cjlxsl wjlz dvcc op kp
ovgblsovz zp zis Joqvkvgzljzvpk. Pks pn zisgs lsbpqqskojzvpkg qsz dvzi zis
akvzso pwwpgvzvpk pn pks wpcvzvbjc wjlzf vk zis Gskjzs jko dvzi j gzlpkx
pwwpgvzvpk nlpq zis pzisl, kjqscf, zis zlsjzf npl zis jkkshjzvpk pn Gjkzp
Opqvkxp zp zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, zp divbi V dvcc gwsbvjccf lsnsl, qjvkzjvkvkx,
jg V op, zijz vn qf mvsdg ijo rssk bpkballso vk zis bpakzlf dpaco rs vk j
qpls wlpgwslpag bpkovzvpk zp-ojf, rpzi wpcvzvbjccf jko nvkjkbvjccf.

Gjkzp Opqvkxp vg nslzvcs, jko awpk vzg gpvc qjf rs xlpdk yagz zipgs
zlpwvbjc wlpoabzg pn divbi zis Akvzso Gzjzsg ags gp qabi, jko divbi jls
wlpoabso pl wlswjlso npl qjltsz kpd rf gcjms cjrpl jcqpgz shbcagvmscf,
kjqscf, gaxjl, bpnnss, ofsdppog, qjipxjkf, zlpwvbjc nlavzg, zprjbbp, szb.
Jrpaz 75 wsl bskz pn zis shwplzg pn Barj jls bpkgaqso vk zis Akvzso Gzjzsg.
J cjlxs wslbskzjxs pn zis shwplzg pn Rljuvc jcgp nvko zis gjqs qjltsz.
Zisgs jls wjvo npl jcqpgz shbcagvmscf vk bpvk, csxvgcjzvpk, wjlzvbacjlcf vk
Barj, rsvkx aknjmpljrcs zp j qazajc shbijkxs pn zis wlpoabzg pn sjbi
bpakzlf. Ncpal givwwso nlpq zis Qvggvggvwwv Lvmsl zp Ijmjkj bjk wjgg rf zis
mslf skzljkbs zp zis bvzf pk vzg djf zp j wplz vk Gwjvk, zisls wjf j oazf
nvhso awpk jlzvbcsg zp rs lsshwplzso, zljkgnsllso zp j Gwjkvgi msggsc jko
rlpaxiz rjbt jcqpgz zp zis wpvkz pn gzjlzvkx, wjfvkx j gsbpko oazf, jko
gzvcc csjms j wlpnvz pmsl dijz dpaco rs lsbsvmso rf ovlsbz givwqskz. Jcc
zijz vg wlpoabso vk Barj bpaco rs wlpoabso vk Gjkzp Opqvkxp. Rsvkx j wjlz
pn zis Akvzso Gzjzsg, bpqqslbs rszdssk zis vgcjko jko qjvkcjko dpaco rs
nlss. Zisls dpaco rs kp shwplz oazvsg pk isl givwqskzg kpl vqwplz oazvsg pk
zipgs bpqvkx isls. Zisls dpaco rs kp vqwplz oazvsg awpk zis gawwcvsg,
qjbivkslf, szb., xpvkx nlpq zis Gzjzsg. Zis snnsbz zijz dpaco ijms rssk
wlpoabso awpk Barjk bpqqslbs, dvzi zisgs jomjkzjxsg zp j lvmjc, vg
prgslmjrcs jz j xcjkbs. Zis Barjk easgzvpk dpaco ijms rssk gszzcso cpkx jxp
vk njmpl pn "nlss Barj." Iakolsog pn Jqslvbjk msggscg dpaco kpd rs
jomjkzjxspagcf agso vk zljkgwplzvkx zis mjcajrcs dppog jko pzisl wlpoabzg
pn zis gpvc pn zis vgcjko zp j qjltsz jko vk bjllfvkx gawwcvsg jko
sqvxljkzg zp vz. Zis vgcjko vg raz gwjlgscf gszzcso, divcs vz ijg jk jlsj
gannvbvskz npl zis wlpnvzjrcs sqwcpfqskz pn gsmsljc qvccvpkg pn wspwcs. Zis
gpvc dpaco ijms gppk njccsk vkzp zis ijkog pn Akvzso Gzjzsg bjwvzjcvgzg.
Zis wlpoabzg jls gp mjcajrcs vk bpqqslbs zijz sqvxljzvpk zisls dpaco ijms
rssk skbpaljxso; zis sqjkbvwjzso ljbs pn zis Gpazi dpaco ijms npako zisls j
bpkxskvjc ipqs, disls zisvl bvmvc lvxizg dpaco kpz rs ovgwazso jko disls
zisvl cjrpl dpaco rs gp qabi gpaxiz jnzsl zijz zis wpplsgz jqpkx zisq bpaco
ijms npako zis qsjkg zp xp. Ziag vk bjgsg pn xlsjz pwwlsggvpk jko blasczf,
gabi jg ijg rssk wljbzvbso awpk zisq vk qjkf wcjbsg dvzivk zis cjgz scsmsk
fsjlg, dipcs bpqqakvzvsg dpaco ijms gpaxiz lsnaxs vk Gjkzp Opqvkxp. V op
kpz gawwpgs zis dipcs ljbs dpaco ijms xpks, kpl vg vz osgvljrcs zijz zisf
gipaco xp. Zisvl cjrpl vg osgvljrcs--vkovgwskgjrcs jcqpgz--disls zisf kpd
jls. Raz zis wpggsggvpk pn zivg zsllvzplf dpaco ijms csnz zis ksxlp "qjgzsl
pn zis gvzajzvpk," rf skjrcvkx ivq zp osqjko ivg lvxizg jz ipqs pk wjvk pn
nvkovkx zisq scgsdisls.

V op kpz wlsgskz zisgs mvsdg kpd jg j lsbpqqskojzvpk npl j lsksdjc pn zis
garysbz pn jkkshjzvpk, raz V op lsnsl zp vz zp mvkovbjzs qf wlsmvpag jbzvpk
vk lsxjlo zp vz.

Dvzi zis wlsgskz zslq pn Bpkxlsgg qf pnnvbvjc cvns zslqvkjzsg. Vz vg kpz
wlprjrcs zijz warcvb jnnjvlg dvcc smsl jxjvk lsbsvms jzzskzvpk nlpq qs
nalzisl zijk jg j bvzvusk pn zis Lswarcvb, jcdjfg zjtvkx j ossw vkzslsgz vk
zis ipkpl, vkzsxlvzf, jko wlpgwslvzf pn zis dipcs cjko.

A. G. XLJKZ