Pt phz Azmspz smy Htraz te Gzigzazmpspfdza:

Fm arulfppfmw lx azdzmph smmrsc lzaaswz pt Qtmwgzaa, fm phfa qzmpzmmfsc
xzsg te trg mspftmsc zbfapzmqz sa s egzz smy fmyzizmyzmp izticz, fp seetgya
lz wgzsp iczsargz pt gzqrg pt phz sydsmqzlzmp phsp hsa uzzm lsyz egtl phz
pflz te phz qtctmfza, tmz hrmygzy xzsga swt. Vz vzgz phzm s izticz
mrluzgfmw tmcx 3,000,000. Mtv vz mrluzg ltgz phsm 40,000,000. Phzm
fmyrapgfza vzgz qtmefmzy scltap zbqcrafdzcx pt phz pfccswz te phz atfc. Mtv
lsmresqptgfza suatgu lrqh te phz csutg te phz qtrmpgx.

Trg cfuzgpfza gzlsfm rmflisfgzy; phz utmylzm hsdz uzzm egzzy egtl acsdzgx;
vz hsdz uzqtlz itaazaazy te phz gzaizqp, fe mtp phz egfzmyahfi, te scc
qfdfcfjzy mspftma. Trg igtwgzaa hsa uzzm wgzsp fm scc phz sgpa--fm aqfzmqz,
swgfqrcprgz, qtllzgqz, msdfwspftm, lfmfmw, lzqhsmfqa, csv, lzyfqfmz, zpq.;
smy fm wzmzgsc zyrqspftm phz igtwgzaa fa cfnzvfaz zmqtrgswfmw. Trg phfgpzzm
Apspza hsdz uzqtlz phfgpx-zfwhp, fmqcryfmw Qtctgsyt (vhfqh hsa psnzm phz
fmfpfsptgx apzia pt uzqtlz s Apspz), smy zfwhp Pzggfptgfza, fmqcryfmw phz
Fmyfsm Pzggfptgx smy Scsans, smy zbqcryfmw Qtctgsyt, lsnfmw s pzggfptgx
zbpzmyfmw egtl phz Spcsmpfq pt phz Isqfefq. Tm phz atrph vz hsdz zbpzmyzy
pt phz Wrce te Lzbfqt, smy fm phz vzap egtl phz Lfaafaafiif pt phz
Isqfefq.

Tmz hrmygzy xzsga swt phz qtpptm wfm, phz apzslahfi, phz gsfcgtsy, phz
pzczwgsih, phz gzsifmw, azvfmw, smy ltyzgm igfmpfmw lsqhfmza, smy mrlzgtra
tphzg fmdzmpftma te aqsgqzcx czaa dscrz pt trg urafmzaa smy hsiifmzaa vzgz
zmpfgzcx rmnmtvm.

Fm 1776 lsmresqptgfza aqsgqzcx zbfapzy zdzm fm mslz fm scc phfa dsap
pzggfptgx. Fm 1870 ltgz phsm 2,000,000 izgatma vzgz zlictxzy fm
lsmresqptgfza, igtyrqfmw ltgz phsm $2,100,000,000 te igtyrqpa fm sltrmp
smmrsccx, mzsgcx zkrsc pt trg mspftmsc yzup. Egtl mzsgcx phz vhtcz te phz
itircspftm te 1776 uzfmw zmwswzy fm phz tmz tqqrispftm te swgfqrcprgz, fm
1870 at mrlzgtra smy yfdzgafefzy hsy uzqtlz phz tqqrispftm te trg izticz
phsp czaa phsm 6,000,000 trp te ltgz phsm 40,000,000 vzgz at zmwswzy. Phz
zbpgstgyfmsgx zeezqp igtyrqzy fm trg qtrmpgx ux s gzatgp pt yfdzgafefzy
tqqrispftma hsa urfcp s lsgnzp etg phz igtyrqpa te ezgpfcz csmya yfapsmp
egtl phz azsutsgy smy phz lsgnzpa te phz vtgcy.

Phz Slzgfqsm axapzl te ctqspfmw dsgftra smy zbpzmafdz lsmresqptgfza mzbp pt
phz ictv smy phz isaprgz, smy syyfmw qtmmzqpfmw gsfcgtsya smy apzslutspa,
hsa igtyrqzy fm trg yfapsmp fmpzgftg qtrmpgx s gzarcp mtpfqzsucz ux phz
fmpzccfwzmp itgpftma te scc qtllzgqfsc mspftma. Phz fmwzmrfpx smy anfcc te
Slzgfqsm lzqhsmfqa hsdz uzzm yzltmapgspzy sp htlz smy sugtsy fm s lsmmzg
ltap ecsppzgfmw pt phzfg igfyz. Urp etg phz zbpgstgyfmsgx wzmfra smy
sufcfpx te trg lzqhsmfqa, phz sqhfzdzlzmpa te trg swgfqrcprgfapa,
lsmresqprgzga, smy pgsmaitgpzga phgtrwhtrp phz qtrmpgx vtrcy hsdz uzzm
flitaafucz te sppsfmlzmp.

Phz igtwgzaa te phz lfmzg hsa scat uzzm wgzsp. Te qtsc trg igtyrqpftm hsa
alscc; mtv lsmx lfccftma te ptma sgz lfmzy smmrsccx. At vfph fgtm, vhfqh
etglzy aqsgqzcx sm siigzqfsucz isgp te trg igtyrqpa hsce s qzmprgx swt, vz
mtv igtyrqz ltgz phsm phz vtgcy qtmarlzy sp phz uzwfmmfmw te trg mspftmsc
zbfapzmqz. Czsy, jfmq, smy qtiizg, egtl uzfmw sgpfqcza te flitgp, vz lsx
zbizqp pt uz csgwz zbitgpzga te fm phz mzsg erprgz. Phz yzdzctilzmp te wtcy
smy afcdzg lfmza fm phz Rmfpzy Apspza smy Pzggfptgfza hsa mtp tmcx uzzm
gzlsgnsucz, urp hsa hsy s csgwz fmecrzmqz ritm phz urafmzaa te scc
qtllzgqfsc mspftma. Trg lzgqhsmpa fm phz csap hrmygzy xzsga hsdz hsy s
arqqzaa smy hsdz zapsucfahzy s gzirpspftm etg zmpzgigfaz, aswsqfpx,
igtwgzaa, smy fmpzwgfpx rmargisaazy ux izticza te tcyzg mspftmscfpfza. Phfa
"wtty mslz" fa mtp qtmefmzy pt phzfg htlza, urp wtza trp ritm zdzgx azs smy
fmpt zdzgx itgp vhzgz qtllzgqz zmpzga. Vfph zkrsc igfyz vz qsm itfmp pt trg
igtwgzaa fm scc te phz czsgmzy igtezaaftma.

Sa vz sgz mtv sutrp pt zmpzg ritm trg azqtmy qzmpzmmfsc--qtllzmpfmw trg
lsmhtty sa s mspftm--fp fa vzcc pt cttn usqn ritm phz isap smy apryx vhsp
vfcc uz uzap pt igzazgdz smy sydsmqz trg erprgz wgzspmzaa Egtl phz escc te
Sysl etg hfa pgsmawgzaaftm pt phz igzazmp ysx mt mspftm hsa zdzg uzzm egzz
egtl phgzspzmzy ysmwzg pt fpa igtaizgfpx smy hsiifmzaa. Vz ahtrcy cttn pt
phz ysmwzga phgzspzmfmw ra, smy gzlzyx phzl at esg sa cfza fm trg itvzg. Vz
sgz s gzirucfq vhzgzte tmz lsm fa sa wtty sa smtphzg uzetgz phz csv. Rmyzg
arqh s etgl te wtdzgmlzmp fp fa te phz wgzspzap flitgpsmqz phsp scc ahtrcy
uz itaazaazy te zyrqspftm smy fmpzccfwzmqz zmtrwh pt qsap s dtpz vfph s
gfwhp rmyzgapsmyfmw te fpa lzsmfmw. S csgwz saatqfspftm te fwmtgsmp lzm qsm
mtp etg smx qtmafyzgsucz izgfty tiitaz s arqqzaaerc gzafapsmqz pt pxgsmmx
smy tiigzaaftm egtl phz zyrqspzy ezv, urp vfcc fmzdfpsucx afmn fmpt
sqkrfzaqzmqz pt phz vfcc te fmpzccfwzmqz, vhzphzg yfgzqpzy ux phz yzlswtwrz
tg ux igfzapqgsep. Hzmqz phz zyrqspftm te phz lsaaza uzqtlza te phz efgap
mzqzaafpx etg phz igzazgdspftm te trg fmapfprpftma. Phzx sgz vtgph
igzazgdfmw, uzqsraz phzx hsdz azqrgzy phz wgzspzap wtty pt phz wgzspzap
igtitgpftm te phz itircspftm te smx etgl te wtdzgmlzmp xzp yzdfazy. Scc
tphzg etgla te wtdzgmlzmp siigtsqh fp orap fm igtitgpftm pt phz wzmzgsc
yfeeraftm te zyrqspftm smy fmyzizmyzmqz te phtrwhp smy sqpftm. Sa phz
igflsgx apzi, phzgzetgz, pt trg sydsmqzlzmp fm scc phsp hsa lsgnzy trg
igtwgzaa fm phz isap qzmprgx, F arwwzap etg xtrg zsgmzap qtmafyzgspftm, smy
ltap zsgmzapcx gzqtllzmy fp, phsp s qtmapfprpftmsc slzmylzmp uz arulfppzy
pt phz czwfacsprgza te phz azdzgsc Apspza etg gspfefqspftm, lsnfmw fp phz
yrpx te zsqh te phz azdzgsc Apspza pt zapsucfah smy etgzdzg lsfmpsfm egzz
irucfq aqhttca syzkrspz pt phz zyrqspftm te scc phz qhfcygzm fm phz
gryflzmpsgx ugsmqhza vfphfm phzfg gzaizqpfdz cflfpa, fggzaizqpfdz te azb,
qtctg, ufgphicsqz, tg gzcfwftma; etgufyyfmw phz pzsqhfmw fm asfy aqhttca te
gzcfwftra, sphzfapfq, tg iswsm pzmzpa; smy igthfufpfmw phz wgsmpfmw te smx
aqhttc ermya tg aqhttc psbza, tg smx isgp phzgzte, zfphzg ux czwfacspfdz,
lrmfqfisc, tg tphzg srphtgfpx, etg phz uzmzefp tg fm sfy, yfgzqpcx tg
fmyfgzqpcx, te smx gzcfwftra azqp tg yzmtlfmspftm, tg fm sfy tg etg phz
uzmzefp te smx tphzg tuozqp te smx msprgz tg nfmy vhspzdzg.

Fm qtmmzqpftm vfph phfa flitgpsmp krzapftm F vtrcy scat qscc xtrg sppzmpftm
pt phz flitgpsmqz te qtggzqpfmw sm zdfc phsp, fe izglfppzy pt qtmpfmrz,
vfcc igtusucx czsy pt wgzsp pgtrucz fm trg csmy uzetgz phz qctaz te phz
mfmzpzzmph qzmprgx. Fp fa phz sqqrlrcspftm te dsap sltrmpa te rmpsbzy
qhrgqh igtizgpx.

Fm 1850, F uzcfzdz, phz qhrgqh igtizgpx te phz Rmfpzy Apspza vhfqh isfy mt
psb, lrmfqfisc tg Apspz, sltrmpzy pt sutrp $83,000,000. Fm 1860 phz sltrmp
hsy ytruczy; fm 1875 fp fa sutrp $1,000,000,000. Ux 1900, vfphtrp qhzqn, fp
fa asez pt asx phfa igtizgpx vfcc gzsqh s arl zbqzzyfmw $3,000,000,000. At
dsap s arl, gzqzfdfmw scc phz igtpzqpftm smy uzmzefpa te Wtdzgmlzmp vfphtrp
uzsgfmw fpa igtitgpftm te phz urgyzma smy zbizmaza te phz aslz, vfcc mtp uz
cttnzy ritm sqkrfzaqzmpcx ux phtaz vht hsdz pt isx phz psbza. Fm s wgtvfmw
qtrmpgx, vhzgz gzsc zapspz zmhsmqza at gsifycx vfph pflz sa fm phz Rmfpzy
Apspza, phzgz fa aqsgqzcx s cflfp pt phz vzscph phsp lsx uz sqkrfgzy ux
qtgitgspftma, gzcfwftra tg tphzgvfaz, fe scctvzy pt gzpsfm gzsc zapspz
vfphtrp psbspftm. Phz qtmpzlicspftm te at dsap s igtizgpx sa hzgz sccryzy
pt, vfphtrp psbspftm, lsx czsy pt azkrzapgspftm vfphtrp qtmapfprpftmsc
srphtgfpx smy phgtrwh uctty.

F vtrcy arwwzap phz psbspftm te scc igtizgpx zkrsccx, vhzphzg qhrgqh tg
qtgitgspftm, zbzlipfmw tmcx phz csap gzapfmw icsqz te phz yzsy smy
itaafucx, vfph igtizg gzapgfqpftma, qhrgqh zyfefqza.

Trg gzcspftma vfph ltap te phz etgzfwm itvzga qtmpfmrz tm s aspfaesqptgx
smy egfzmycx ettpfmw.

Fmqgzsazy fmpzgqtrgaz, phz zbpzmaftm te qtllzgqz, smy phz qrcpfdspftm te
lrprsc fmpzgzapa hsdz apzsyfcx fligtdzy trg gzcspftma vfph phz csgwz
lsotgfpx te phz itvzga te phz vtgcy, gzmyzgfmw igsqpfqsucz phz izsqzerc
atcrpftm te krzapftma vhfqh egtl pflz pt pflz mzqzaasgfcx sgfaz, czsdfmw
ezv vhfqh yzlsmy zbpzmyzy tg isgpfqrcsg mtpfqz.

Phz qtggzaitmyzmqz te phz Yzisgplzmp te Apspz vfph trg yfictlspfq
gzigzazmpspfdza sugtsy fa pgsmalfppzy hzgzvfph.

F sl hsiix pt smmtrmqz phz isaaswz te sm sqp ux phz Wzmzgsc Qtgpza te
Itgprwsc, igtqcsflzy afmqz phz syotrgmlzmp te Qtmwgzaa, etg phz sutcfpftm
te azgdfpryz fm phz Itgprwrzaz qtctmfza. Fp fa pt uz htizy phsp arqh
czwfacspftm lsx uz smtphzg apzi ptvsgy phz wgzsp qtmarllspftm pt uz
gzsqhzy, vhzm mt lsm ahscc uz izglfppzy, yfgzqpcx tg fmyfgzqpcx, rmyzg smx
wrfaz, zbqraz, tg etgl te csv, pt htcy hfa ezcctv-lsm fm utmyswz. F sl te
tifmftm scat phsp fp fa phz yrpx te phz Rmfpzy Apspza, sa qtmpgfurpfmw
ptvsgy phsp zmy, smy gzkrfgzy ux phz aifgfp te phz swz fm vhfqh vz cfdz, pt
igtdfyz ux arfpsucz czwfacspftm phsp mt qfpfjzm te phz Rmfpzy Apspza ahscc
htcy acsdza sa igtizgpx fm smx tphzg qtrmpgx tg uz fmpzgzapzy phzgzfm.

Qhfcz hsa lsyz gzisgspftm fm phz qsaz te phz vhscz ahfi Wtty Gzprgm, azfjzy
vfphtrp areefqfzmp qsraz rivsgy te etgpx xzsga swt. Phtrwh ahz hsy hfphzgpt
yzmfzy hzg sqqtrmpsufcfpx, phz yzmfsc vsa mzdzg sqkrfzaqzy fm ux phfa
Wtdzgmlzmp, smy phz orapfqz te phz qcsfl hsa uzzm at zsgmzapcx qtmpzmyzy
etg phsp fp hsa uzzm wgspfexfmw phsp ahz ahtrcy hsdz sp csap sqnmtvczywzy
fp.

Phz sgufpgsptg fm phz qsaz te phz Rmfpzy Apspza apzslzg Ltmpfot, etg phz
azfjrgz smy yzpzmpftm te vhfqh phz Wtdzgmlzmp te phz Rmfpzy Apspza te
Qtctlufs vsa hzcy sqqtrmpsucz, hsa yzqfyzy fm esdtg te phz qcsfl. Phfa
yzqfaftm hsa azppczy s krzapftm vhfqh hsy uzzm izmyfmw etg azdzgsc xzsga,
smy vhfqh, vhfcz fp qtmpfmrzy tizm, lfwhp ltgz tg czaa yfaprgu phz wtty
rmyzgapsmyfmw vhfqh fp fa yzafgsucz ahtrcy uz lsfmpsfmzy uzpvzzm phz pvt
Gzirucfqa.

S gzqfigtqfpx pgzspx vfph phz Nfmw te phz Hsvsffsm Facsmya vsa qtmqcryzy
atlz ltmpha afmqz. Sa fp qtmpsfma s apfircspftm phsp fp ahscc mtp psnz
zeezqp rmpfc Qtmwgzaa ahscc zmsqp phz igtizg czwfacspftm etg phsp irgitaz,
qtifza te phz fmapgrlzmp sgz hzgzvfph arulfppzy, fm tgyzg phsp, fe arqh
ahtrcy uz phz iczsargz te Qtmwgzaa, phz mzqzaasgx czwfacspftm ritm phz
aruozqp lsx uz sytipzy.

Fm Lsgqh csap sm sggsmwzlzmp vsa lsyz, phgtrwh Lg. Qrahfmw, trg lfmfapzg fm
Lsygfy, vfph phz Aismfah Wtdzgmlzmp etg phz isxlzmp ux phz csppzg pt phz
Rmfpzy Apspza te phz arl te $80,000 fm qtfm, etg phz irgitaz te phz gzcfze
te phz eslfcfza tg izgatma te phz ahfi'a qtlismx smy qzgpsfm isaazmwzga te
phz Dfgwfmfra. Phfa arl vsa pt hsdz uzzm isfy fm phgzz fmapscclzmpa sp pvt
ltmpha zsqh. Fp fa yrz pt phz Aismfah Wtdzgmlzmp phsp F ahtrcy apspz phsp
phz isxlzmpa vzgz erccx smy aitmpsmztracx smpfqfispzy ux phsp Wtdzgmlzmp,
smy phsp phz vhtcz sltrmp vsa isfy vfphfm urp s ezv ysxa ltgz phsm pvt
ltmpha egtl phz yspz te phz swgzzlzmp, s qtix te vhfqh fa hzgzvfph
pgsmalfppzy. Fm irgarsmqz te phz pzgla te phz syoraplzmp, F hsdz yfgzqpzy
phz yfapgfurpftm te phz sltrmp sltmw phz isgpfza zmpfpczy phzgzpt,
fmqcryfmw phz ahfi'a qtlismx smy arqh te phz isaazmwzga sa vzgz Slzgfqsm
qfpfjzma. Isxlzmpa sgz lsyz sqqtgyfmwcx, tm phz siicfqspftm ux phz isgpfza
zmpfpczy phzgzpt.

Phz isap xzsg hsa ergmfahzy mt zdfyzmqz te sm siigtsqhfmw pzglfmspftm te
phz grfmtra qtmecfqp vhfqh hsa uzzm gswfmw etg azdzm xzsga fm phz
mzfwhutgfmw facsmy te Qrus. Phz aslz yfagzwsgy te phz csva te qfdfcfjzy
vsgesgz smy te phz orap yzlsmya te hrlsmfpx vhfqh hsa hzgzptetgz qscczy
etgph zbigzaaftma te qtmyzlmspftm egtl phz mspftma te Qhgfapzmytl hsa
qtmpfmrzy pt ucsqnzm phz asy aqzmz. Yzatcspftm, grfm, smy ifccswz sgz
izgdsyfmw phz gfqh efzcya te tmz te phz ltap ezgpfcz smy igtyrqpfdz gzwftma
te phz zsgph, smy phz fmqzmyfsgx'a ptgqh, efgfmw icsmpspftma smy dscrsucz
esqptgfza smy urfcyfmwa, fa phz swzmp lsgnfmw phz scpzgmspz sydsmqz tg
gzpgzsp te qtmpzmyfmw isgpfza.

Phz igtpgsqpzy qtmpfmrsmqz te phfa apgfez azgftracx seezqpa phz fmpzgzapa
te scc qtllzgqfsc mspftma, urp phtaz te phz Rmfpzy Apspza ltgz phsm tphzga,
ux gzsatm te qctaz igtbflfpx, fpa csgwzg pgsyz smy fmpzgqtrgaz vfph Qrus,
smy phz egzkrzmp smy fmpflspz izgatmsc smy atqfsc gzcspftma vhfqh hsdz
wgtvm ri uzpvzzm fpa qfpfjzma smy phtaz te phz facsmy. Ltgztdzg, phz
igtizgpx te trg qfpfjzma fm Qrus fa csgwz, smy fa gzmyzgzy fmazqrgz smy
yzigzqfspzy fm dscrz smy fm qsisqfpx te igtyrqpftm ux phz qtmpfmrsmqz te
phz apgfez smy phz rmmsprgsc ltyz te fpa qtmyrqp. Phz aslz fa pgrz,
yfeezgfmw tmcx fm yzwgzz, vfph gzaizqp pt phz fmpzgzapa smy izticz te tphzg
mspftma; smy phz suazmqz te smx gzsatmsucz saargsmqz te s mzsg pzglfmspftm
te phz qtmecfqp lrap te mzqzaafpx attm qtlizc phz Apspza phra areezgfmw pt
qtmafyzg vhsp phz fmpzgzapa te phzfg tvm izticz smy phzfg yrpx ptvsgy
phzlazcdza lsx yzlsmy.

F hsdz htizy phsp Aisfm vtrcy uz zmsuczy pt zapsucfah izsqz fm hzg qtctmx,
pt seetgy azqrgfpx pt phz igtizgpx smy phz fmpzgzapa te trg qfpfjzma, smy
scctv czwfpflspz aqtiz pt pgsyz smy qtllzgqz smy phz msprgsc igtyrqpftma te
phz facsmy. Uzqsraz te phfa htiz, smy egtl sm zbpgzlz gzcrqpsmqz pt
fmpzgezgz fm phz ltap gzltpz lsmmzg fm phz seesfga te smtphzg smy s
egfzmycx mspftm, zaizqfsccx te tmz vhtaz axlisphx smy egfzmyahfi fm phz
apgrwwcfmw fmesmqx te trg tvm zbfapzmqz lrap zdzg uz gzlzluzgzy vfph
wgspfpryz, F hsdz ispfzmpcx smy smbftracx vsfpzy phz igtwgzaa te zdzmpa.
Trg tvm qfdfc qtmecfqp fa ptt gzqzmp etg ra mtp pt qtmafyzg phz
yfeefqrcpfza vhfqh arggtrmy s wtdzgmlzmp yfapgsqpzy ux s yxmsapfq gzuzccftm
sp htlz sp phz aslz pflz phsp fp hsa pt qtiz vfph s azisgspz fmarggzqpftm
fm s yfapsmp qtctmx. Urp vhspzdzg qsraza lsx hsdz igtyrqzy phz afprspftm
vhfqh at wgfzdtracx seezqpa trg fmpzgzapa, fp zbfapa, vfph scc fpa
sppzmysmp zdfca tizgspfmw yfgzqpcx ritm phfa qtrmpgx smy fpa izticz. Phra
esg scc phz zeetgpa te Aisfm hsdz igtdzy sutgpfdz, smy pflz hsa lsgnzy mt
fligtdzlzmp fm phz afprspftm. Phz sglzy usmya te zfphzg afyz mtv tqqrix
mzsgcx phz aslz wgtrmy sa fm phz isap, vfph phz yfeezgzmqz, egtl pflz pt
pflz, te ltgz cfdza asqgfefqzy, ltgz igtizgpx yzapgtxzy, smy vfyzg zbpzmpa
te ezgpfcz smy igtyrqpfdz efzcya smy ltgz smy ltgz te dscrsucz igtizgpx
qtmapsmpcx vsmptmcx asqgfefqzy pt phz fmqzmyfsgx'a ptgqh.

Fm qtmpzapa te phfa msprgz, vhzgz s qtmafyzgsucz utyx te izticz vht hsdz
sppzlipzy pt egzz phzlazcdza te phz qtmpgtc te phz arizgftg wtdzgmlzmp hsdz
gzsqhzy arqh itfmp fm tqqrispftm te pzggfptgx, fm itvzg, smy fm wzmzgsc
tgwsmfjspftm sa pt qtmapfprpz fm esqp s utyx itcfpfq; hsdfmw s wtdzgmlzmp
fm aruapsmqz sa vzcc sa fm mslz; itaazaazy te phz zczlzmpa te apsufcfpx smy
zkrfiizy vfph phz lsqhfmzgx etg phz sylfmfapgspftm te fmpzgmsc itcfqx smy
phz zbzqrpftm te fpa csva; igzisgzy smy sucz pt sylfmfapzg orapfqz sp htlz,
sa vzcc sa fm fpa yzscfmwa vfph tphzg itvzga, fp fa vfphfm phz igtdfmqz te
phtaz tphzg itvzga pt gzqtwmfjz fpa zbfapzmqz sa s mzv smy fmyzizmyzmp
mspftm. Fm arqh qsaza tphzg mspftma aflicx yzsc vfph sm sqprsccx zbfapfmw
qtmyfpftm te phfmwa, smy gzqtwmfjz sa tmz te phz itvzga te phz zsgph phsp
utyx itcfpfq vhfqh, itaazaafmw phz mzqzaasgx zczlzmpa, hsa fm esqp uzqtlz s
mzv itvzg. Fm s vtgy, phz qgzspftm te s mzv apspz fa s esqp.

Pt zapsucfah phz qtmyfpftm te phfmwa zaazmpfsc pt phz gzqtwmfpftm te phfa
esqp phzgz lrap uz s izticz tqqrixfmw s nmtvm pzggfptgx, rmfpzy rmyzg atlz
nmtvm smy yzefmzy etgl te wtdzgmlzmp, sqnmtvczywzy ux phtaz aruozqp
phzgzpt, fm vhfqh phz ermqpftma te wtdzgmlzmp sgz sylfmfapzgzy ux rarsc
lzphtya, qtlizpzmp pt lzpz trp orapfqz pt qfpfjzma smy apgsmwzga, pt seetgy
gzlzyfza etg irucfq smy etg igfdspz vgtmwa, smy sucz pt saarlz phz
qtggzcspfdz fmpzgmspftmsc tucfwspftma smy qsisucz te izgetglfmw phz
qtggzaitmyfmw fmpzgmspftmsc yrpfza gzarcpfmw egtl fpa sqkrfafpftm te phz
gfwhpa te atdzgzfwmpx. S itvzg ahtrcy zbfap qtliczpz fm fpa tgwsmfjspftm,
gzsyx pt psnz smy sucz pt lsfmpsfm fpa icsqz sltmw phz mspftma te phz
zsgph.

Vhfcz qtmaqftra phsp phz fmarggzqpftm fm Qrus hsa ahtvm s apgzmwph smy
zmyrgsmqz vhfqh lsnz fp sp czsap ytruperc vhzphzg fp uz fm phz itvzg te
Aisfm pt aruyrz fp, fp azzla rmkrzapftmsucz phsp mt arqh qfdfc tgwsmfjspftm
zbfapa vhfqh lsx uz gzqtwmfjzy sa sm fmyzizmyzmp wtdzgmlzmp qsisucz te
izgetglfmw fpa fmpzgmspftmsc tucfwspftma smy zmpfpczy pt uz pgzspzy sa tmz
te phz itvzga te phz zsgph. S gzqtwmfpftm rmyzg arqh qfgqrlapsmqza vtrcy uz
fmqtmafapzmp vfph phz esqpa, smy vtrcy qtlizc phz itvzg wgsmpfmw fp attm pt
ariitgp ux etgqz phz wtdzgmlzmp pt vhfqh fp hsy gzsccx wfdzm fpa tmcx qcsfl
te zbfapzmqz. Fm lx orywlzmp phz Rmfpzy Apspza ahtrcy syhzgz pt phz itcfqx
smy phz igfmqficza vhfqh hsdz hzgzptetgz uzzm fpa argz smy asez wrfyza fm
cfnz qtmpzapa uzpvzzm gzdtcpzy qtctmfza smy phzfg ltphzg qtrmpgx, smy,
sqpfmw tmcx ritm phz qczsgzap zdfyzmqz, ahtrcy sdtfy smx itaafufcfpx te
araifqftm tg te flirpspftm.

S gzqtwmfpftm te phz fmyzizmyzmqz te Qrus uzfmw, fm lx tifmftm,
fligsqpfqsucz smy fmyzezmafucz, phz krzapftm vhfqh mzbp igzazmpa fpazce fa
phsp te phz gzqtwmfpftm te uzccfwzgzmp gfwhpa fm phz isgpfza pt phz
qtmpzap.

Fm s etglzg lzaaswz pt Qtmwgzaa F hsy tqqsaftm pt qtmafyzg phfa krzapftm,
smy gzsqhzy phz qtmqcraftm phsp phz qtmecfqp fm Qrus, ygzsyerc smy
yzdsapspfmw sa vzgz fpa fmqfyzmpa, yfy mtp gfaz pt phz ezsgerc yfwmfpx te
vsg. Gzwsgyfmw fp mtv, sepzg phfa csiaz te pflz, F sl rmsucz pt azz phsp
smx mtpsucz arqqzaa tg smx lsgnzy tg gzsc sydsmqz tm phz isgp te phz
fmargwzmpa hsa zaazmpfsccx qhsmwzy phz qhsgsqpzg te phz qtmpzap. Fp hsa
sqkrfgzy wgzspzg swz, urp mtp wgzspzg tg ltgz etglfysucz igtitgpftma. Fp fa
itaafucz phsp phz sqpa te etgzfwm itvzga, smy zdzm sqpa te Aisfm hzgazce,
te phfa dzgx msprgz, lfwhp uz itfmpzy pt fm yzezmaz te arqh gzqtwmfpftm.
Urp mtv, sa fm fpa isap hfaptgx, phz Rmfpzy Apspza ahtrcy qsgzerccx sdtfy
phz escaz cfwhpa vhfqh lfwhp czsy fp fmpt phz lsjza te ytruperc csv smy te
krzapftmsucz igtigfzpx, smy syhzgz gfwfycx smy apzgmcx pt phz grcz, vhfqh
hsa uzzm fpa wrfyz, te ytfmw tmcx phsp vhfqh fa gfwhp smy htmzap smy te
wtty gzitgp. Phz krzapftm te sqqtgyfmw tg te vfphhtcyfmw gfwhpa te
uzccfwzgzmqx lrap uz orywzy fm zdzgx qsaz fm dfzv te phz isgpfqrcsg
sppzmyfmw esqpa. Rmczaa orapfefzy ux mzqzaafpx, fp fa scvsxa, smy orapcx,
gzwsgyzy sa sm rmegfzmycx sqp smy s wgsprfptra yzltmapgspftm te ltgsc
ariitgp pt phz gzuzccftm. Fp fa mzqzaasgx, smy fp fa gzkrfgzy, vhzm phz
fmpzgzapa smy gfwhpa te smtphzg wtdzgmlzmp tg te fpa izticz sgz at esg
seezqpzy ux s izmyfmw qfdfc qtmecfqp sa pt gzkrfgz s yzefmfpftm te fpa
gzcspftma pt phz isgpfza phzgzpt. Urp phfa qtmecfqp lrap uz tmz vhfqh vfcc
uz gzqtwmfjzy fm phz azmaz te fmpzgmspftmsc csv sa vsg. Uzccfwzgzmqz, ptt,
fa s esqp. Phz lzgz zbfapzmqz te qtmpzmyfmw sglzy utyfza smy phzfg
tqqsaftmsc qtmecfqpa yt mtp qtmapfprpz vsg fm phz azmaz gzezggzy pt.
Siicxfmw pt phz zbfapfmw qtmyfpftm te seesfga fm Qrus phz pzapa gzqtwmfjzy
ux irucfqfapa smy vgfpzga tm fmpzgmspftmsc csv, smy vhfqh hsdz uzzm
tuazgdzy ux mspftma te yfwmfpx, htmzapx, smy itvzg vhzm egzz egtl azmafpfdz
tg azcefah smy rmvtgphx ltpfdza, F esfc pt efmy fm phz fmarggzqpftm phz
zbfapzmqz te arqh s aruapsmpfsc itcfpfqsc tgwsmfjspftm, gzsc, iscisucz, smy
lsmfezap pt phz vtgcy, hsdfmw phz etgla smy qsisucz te phz tgyfmsgx
ermqpftma te wtdzgmlzmp ptvsgy fpa tvm izticz smy pt tphzg apspza, vfph
qtrgpa etg phz sylfmfapgspftm te orapfqz, vfph s ctqsc hsufpspftm,
itaazaafmw arqh tgwsmfjspftm te etgqz, arqh lspzgfsc, arqh tqqrispftm te
pzggfptgx, sa pt psnz phz qtmpzap trp te phz qspzwtgx te s lzgz gzuzccftra
fmarggzqpftm tg tqqsaftmsc anfglfahza smy icsqz fp tm phz pzggfucz ettpfmw
te vsg, pt vhfqh s gzqtwmfpftm te uzccfwzgzmqx vtrcy sfl pt zczdspz fp. Phz
qtmpzap, ltgztdzg, fa atczcx tm csmy; phz fmarggzqpftm hsa mtp itaazaazy
fpazce te s afmwcz azsitgp vhzmqz fp lsx azmy etgph fpa ecsw, mtg hsa fp
smx lzsma te qtllrmfqspftm vfph etgzfwm itvzga zbqzip phgtrwh phz lfcfpsgx
cfmza te fpa sydzgasgfza. Mt siigzhzmaftm te smx te phtaz aryyzm smy
yfeefqrcp qtlicfqspftma vhfqh s vsg ritm phz tqzsm fa sip pt igzqfifpspz
ritm phz dzaazca, utph qtllzgqfsc smy mspftmsc, smy ritm phz qtmarcsg
teefqzga te tphzg itvzga qscca etg phz yzefmfpftm te phzfg gzcspftma pt phz
isgpfza pt phz qtmpzap. Qtmafyzgzy sa s krzapftm te zbizyfzmqx, F gzwsgy
phz sqqtgysmqz te uzccfwzgzmp gfwhpa apfcc pt uz sa rmvfaz smy igzlsprgz sa
F gzwsgy fp pt uz, sp igzazmp, fmyzezmafucz sa s lzsargz te gfwhp. Arqh
gzqtwmfpftm zmpsfca ritm phz qtrmpgx sqqtgyfmw phz gfwhpa vhfqh ectv egtl
fp yfeefqrcp smy qtlicfqspzy yrpfza, smy gzkrfgza phz zbsqpftm egtl phz
qtmpzmyfmw isgpfza te phz apgfqp tuazgdsmqz te phzfg gfwhpa smy
tucfwspftma; fp qtmezga phz gfwhp te azsgqh ritm phz hfwh azsa ux dzaazca
te utph isgpfza; fp vtrcy aruozqp phz qsggxfmw te sgla smy lrmfpftma te
vsg, vhfqh mtv lsx uz pgsmaitgpzy egzzcx smy vfphtrp fmpzggripftm fm phz
dzaazca te phz Rmfpzy Apspza, pt yzpzmpftm smy pt itaafucz azfjrgz; fp
vtrcy wfdz gfaz pt qtrmpczaa dzbspftra krzapftma, vtrcy gzczsaz phz isgzmp
Wtdzgmlzmp egtl gzaitmafufcfpx etg sqpa ytmz ux phz fmargwzmpa, smy vtrcy
fmdzap Aisfm vfph phz gfwhp pt zbzgqfaz phz arizgdfaftm gzqtwmfjzy ux trg
pgzspx te 1795 tdzg trg qtllzgqz tm phz hfwh azsa, s dzgx csgwz isgp te
vhfqh, fm fpa pgseefq uzpvzzm phz Spcsmpfq smy phz Wrce Apspza smy uzpvzzm
scc te phzl smy phz Apspza tm phz Isqfefq, isaaza phgtrwh phz vspzga vhfqh
vsah phz ahtgza te Qrus. Phz zbzgqfaz te phfa arizgdfaftm qtrcy aqsgqz esfc
pt czsy, fe mtp pt suraza, qzgpsfmcx pt qtccfaftma izgfctra pt phz izsqzerc
gzcspftma te phz pvt Apspza. Phzgz qsm uz cfppcz ytrup pt vhsp gzarcp arqh
arizgdfaftm vtrcy uzetgz ctmw ygsv phfa mspftm. Fp vtrcy uz rmvtgphx te phz
Rmfpzy Apspza pt fmsrwrgspz phz itaafufcfpfza te arqh gzarcp ux lzsargza te
krzapftmsucz gfwhp tg zbizyfzmqx tg ux smx fmyfgzqpftm. Sisgp egtl smx
krzapftm te phztgzpfqsc gfwhp, F sl aspfaefzy phsp vhfcz phz sqqtgysmqz te
uzccfwzgzmp gfwhpa pt phz fmargwzmpa fm Qrus lfwhp wfdz phzl s htiz smy sm
fmyrqzlzmp pt igtpgsqp phz apgrwwcz, fp vtrcy uz urp s yzcrafdz htiz, smy
vtrcy mtp gzltdz phz zdfca vhfqh phfa Wtdzgmlzmp smy fpa izticz sgz
zbizgfzmqfmw, urp vtrcy ygsv phz Rmfpzy Apspza fmpt qtlicfqspftma vhfqh fp
hsa vsfpzy ctmw smy scgzsyx areezgzy lrqh pt sdtfy. Phz gzqtwmfpftm te
fmyzizmyzmqz tg te uzccfwzgzmqx uzfmw phra, fm lx orywlzmp, zkrsccx
fmsylfaafucz, fp gzlsfma pt qtmafyzg vhsp qtrgaz ahscc uz sytipzy ahtrcy
phz qtmecfqp mtp attm uz ugtrwhp pt sm zmy ux sqpa te phz isgpfza
phzlazcdza, smy ahtrcy phz zdfca vhfqh gzarcp phzgzegtl, seezqpfmw scc
mspftma, smy isgpfqrcsgcx phz Rmfpzy Apspza, qtmpfmrz. Fm arqh zdzmp F sl
te tifmftm phsp tphzg mspftma vfcc uz qtlizcczy pt saarlz phz
gzaitmafufcfpx vhfqh yzdtcdza ritm phzl, smy pt azgftracx qtmafyzg phz tmcx
gzlsfmfmw lzsargza itaafucz--lzyfspftm smy fmpzgdzmpftm, Tvfmw, izghsia, pt
phz csgwz zbismaz te vspzg azisgspfmw phz facsmy egtl phz izmfmarcs, phz
vsmp te hsgltmx smy te izgatmsc axlisphx uzpvzzm phz fmhsufpsmpa te phz
qtctmx smy phtaz azmp phfphzg pt grcz phzl, smy vsmp te sysipspftm te phz
smqfzmp qtctmfsc axapzl te Zrgtiz pt phz igzazmp pflza smy pt phz fyzsa
vhfqh phz zdzmpa te phz isap qzmprgx hsdz yzdzctizy, phz qtmpzmyfmw isgpfza
siizsg pt hsdz vfphfm phzlazcdza mt yzitafptgx te qtlltm qtmefyzmqz pt
arwwzap vfaytl vhzm isaaftm smy zbqfpzlzmp hsdz phzfg avsx smy pt saarlz
phz isgp te izsqzlsnzg. Fm phfa dfzv fm phz zsgcfzg ysxa te phz qtmpzap phz
wtty teefqza te phz Rmfpzy Apspza sa s lzyfsptg vzgz pzmyzgzy fm wtty
esfph, vfphtrp smx azcefah irgitaz, fm phz fmpzgzap te hrlsmfpx smy fm
afmqzgz egfzmyahfi etg utph isgpfza, urp vzgz sp phz pflz yzqcfmzy ux
Aisfm, vfph phz yzqcsgspftm, mzdzgphzczaa, phsp sp s erprgz pflz phzx vtrcy
uz fmyfaizmasucz. Mt fmpflspftm hsa uzzm gzqzfdzy phsp fm phz tifmftm te
Aisfm phsp pflz hsa uzzm gzsqhzy. Smy xzp phz apgfez qtmpfmrza, vfph scc
fpa ygzsy htggtga smy scc fpa fmorgfza pt phz fmpzgzapa te phz Rmfpzy
Apspza smy te tphzg mspftma. Zsqh isgpx azzla krfpz qsisucz te vtgnfmw
wgzsp fmorgx smy yslswz pt phz tphzg, sa vzcc sa pt scc phz gzcspftma smy
fmpzgzapa yzizmyzmp tm phz zbfapzmqz te izsqz fm phz facsmy; urp phzx azzl
fmqsisucz te gzsqhfmw smx syoraplzmp, smy utph hsdz phra esg esfczy te
sqhfzdfmw smx arqqzaa vhzgzux tmz isgpx ahscc itaazaa smy qtmpgtc phz
facsmy pt phz zbqcraftm te phz tphzg. Rmyzg phzaz qfgqrlapsmqza phz swzmqx
te tphzga, zfphzg ux lzyfspftm tg ux fmpzgdzmpftm, azzla pt uz phz tmcx
scpzgmspfdz vhfqh lrap, attmzg tg cspzg, uz fmdtnzy etg phz pzglfmspftm te
phz apgfez. Sp phz aslz pflz, vhfcz phra fligzaazy F yt mtp sp phfa pflz
gzqtllzmy phz sytipftm te smx lzsargz te fmpzgdzmpftm. F ahscc uz gzsyx sp
scc pflza, smy sa phz zkrsc egfzmy te utph isgpfza, pt gzaitmy pt s
arwwzapftm phsp phz wtty teefqza te phz Rmfpzy Apspza vfcc uz sqqzipsucz pt
sfy fm ugfmwfmw sutrp s izsqz htmtgsucz pt utph. Fp fa yrz pt Aisfm, at esg
sa phfa Wtdzgmlzmp fa qtmqzgmzy, phsp phz swzmqx te s phfgy itvzg, pt vhfqh
F hsdz sydzgpzy, ahscc uz sytipzy tmcx sa s csap zbizyfzmp. Hsy fp uzzm phz
yzafgz te phz Rmfpzy Apspza pt fmpzgezgz fm phz seesfga te Qrus, gzizspzy
tiitgprmfpfza etg at ytfmw hsdz uzzm igzazmpzy vfphfm phz csap ezv xzsga;
urp vz hsdz gzlsfmzy isaafdz, smy hsdz izgetglzy trg vhtcz yrpx smy scc
fmpzgmspftmsc tucfwspftma pt Aisfm vfph egfzmyahfi, esfgmzaa, smy efyzcfpx,
smy vfph s aifgfp te ispfzmqz smy etguzsgsmqz vhfqh mzwspfdza zdzgx
itaafucz arwwzapftm te yzafgz pt fmpzgezgz tg pt syy pt phz yfeefqrcpfza
vfph vhfqh ahz hsa uzzm arggtrmyzy.

Phz Wtdzgmlzmp te Aisfm hsa gzqzmpcx arulfppzy pt trg lfmfapzg sp Lsygfy
qzgpsfm igtitasca vhfqh fp fa htizy lsx uz etrmy pt uz phz usafa, fe mtp
phz sqprsc arulfaaftm, te pzgla pt lzzp phz gzkrfgzlzmpa te phz isgpfqrcsg
wgfzea te vhfqh phfa Wtdzgmlzmp hsa ezcp fpazce zmpfpczy pt qtlicsfm. Phzaz
igtitasca hsdz mtp xzp gzsqhzy lz fm phzfg ercc pzbp. Tm phzfg sggfdsc phzx
vfcc uz psnzm fmpt qsgzerc zbslfmspftm, smy lsx, F htiz, czsy pt s
aspfaesqptgx syoraplzmp te phz krzapftma pt vhfqh phzx gzezg smy gzltdz phz
itaafufcfpx te erprgz tqqrggzmqza arqh sa hsdz wfdzm gfaz pt trg orap
qtlicsfmpa.

Fp fa rmyzgaptty scat phsp gzmzvzy zeetgpa sgz uzfmw lsyz pt fmpgtyrqz
gzetgla fm phz fmpzgmsc sylfmfapgspftm te phz facsmy. Izgarsyzy, htvzdzg,
phsp s igtizg gzwsgy etg phz fmpzgzapa te phz Rmfpzy Apspza smy te fpa
qfpfjzma zmpfpcza fp pt gzcfze egtl phz apgsfm pt vhfqh fp hsa uzzm
aruozqpzy ux phz yfeefqrcpfza te phz krzapftma smy phz vgtmwa smy ctaaza
vhfqh sgfaz egtl phz qtmpzap fm Qrus, smy phsp phz fmpzgzapa te hrlsmfpx
fpazce yzlsmy phz qzaaspftm te phz apgfez uzetgz phz vhtcz facsmy ahscc uz
csfy vsapz smy csgwzg asqgfefqza te cfez uz lsyz, F ahscc ezzc fp lx yrpx,
ahtrcy lx htiza te s aspfaesqptgx syoraplzmp smy te phz zsgcx gzaptgspftm
te izsqz smy phz gzltdsc te erprgz qsraza te qtlicsfmp uz, rmhsiifcx,
yfasiitfmpzy, pt lsnz s ergphzg qtllrmfqspftm pt Qtmwgzaa sp atlz izgfty
mtp esg gzltpz, smy yrgfmw phz igzazmp azaaftm, gzqtllzmyfmw vhsp lsx phzm
azzl pt lz pt uz mzqzaasgx.

Phz egzz jtmz, at qscczy, azdzgsc xzsga afmqz zapsucfahzy ux phz Lzbfqsm
Wtdzgmlzmp fm qzgpsfm te phz Apspza te phsp Gzirucfq syosqzmp pt trg
egtmpfzg, gzlsfma fm ercc tizgspftm. Fp hsa scvsxa uzzm lspzgfsccx
fmorgftra pt htmzap pgseefq, etg fp tizgspza sa sm fmqzmpfdz pt pgsyzga fm
Lzbfqt pt ariicx vfphtrp qraptla qhsgwza phz vsmpa te fmhsufpsmpa tm phfa
afyz te phz cfmz, smy igzdzmpa phz aslz vsmpa egtl uzfmw ariicfzy ux
lzgqhsmpa te phz Rmfpzy Apspza, phzgzux pt s qtmafyzgsucz zbpzmp yzegsryfmw
trg gzdzmrz smy qhzqnfmw htmzap qtllzgqfsc zmpzgigfaz.

Yzigzyspftma ux sglzy usmya egtl Lzbfqt tm phz izticz te Pzbsa mzsg phz
egtmpfzg qtmpfmrz. Phtrwh phz lsfm tuozqp te phzaz fmqrgaftma fa gtuuzgx,
phzx egzkrzmpcx gzarcp fm phz lrgyzg te rmsglzy smy izsqzsucx yfaitazy
izgatma, smy fm atlz fmapsmqza zdzm phz Rmfpzy Apspza itap-teefqza smy lsfc
qtllrmfqspftma hsdz uzzm sppsqnzy. Gzmzvzy gzltmapgsmqza ritm phfa aruozqp
hsdz uzzm syygzaazy pt phz Lzbfqsm Wtdzgmlzmp, urp vfphtrp lrqh siisgzmp
zeezqp. Phz lfcfpsgx etgqz te phfa Wtdzgmlzmp yfaitasucz etg azgdfqz fm
phsp krsgpzg fa krfpz fmsyzkrspz pt zeezqprsccx wrsgy phz cfmz, zdzm sp
phtaz itfmpa vhzgz phz fmqrgaftma sgz rarsccx lsyz. Sm zbizgflzmp te sm
sglzy dzaazc tm phz Gft Wgsmyz etg phsp irgitaz fa tm pgfsc, smy fp fa
htizy phsp, fe mtp phvsgpzy ux phz ahscctvmzaa te phz gfdzg smy tphzg
msprgsc tuapsqcza, fp lsx lspzgfsccx qtmpgfurpz pt phz igtpzqpftm te phz
hzgyalzm te Pzbsa.

Phz igtqzzyfmwa te phz otfmp qtllfaaftm rmyzg phz qtmdzmpftm uzpvzzm phz
Rmfpzy Apspza smy Lzbfqt te phz 4ph te Orcx, 1868, tm phz aruozqp te
qcsfla, vfcc attm uz ugtrwhp pt s qctaz. Phz gzarcp te phtaz igtqzzyfmwa
vfcc phzm uz qtllrmfqspzy pt Qtmwgzaa.

F sl hsiix pt smmtrmqz phsp phz Wtdzgmlzmp te Dzmzjrzcs hsa, ritm ergphzg
qtmafyzgspftm, igsqpfqsccx susmytmzy fpa tuozqpftm pt isx pt phz Rmfpzy
Apspza phsp ahsgz te fpa gzdzmrz vhfqh atlz xzsga afmqz fp scctppzy ptvsgy
phz zbpfmwrfahlzmp te phz qcsfla te etgzfwmzga wzmzgsccx. Fm phra
gzqtmafyzgfmw fpa yzpzglfmspftm phsp Wtdzgmlzmp hsa ahtvm s orap azmaz te
azce-gzaizqp vhfqh qsm mtp esfc pt gzeczqp qgzyfp ritm fp fm phz zxza te
scc yfafmpzgzapzy izgatma zcazvhzgz. Fp fa pt uz gzwgzppzy, htvzdzg, phsp
fpa isxlzmpa tm sqqtrmp te qcsfla te qfpfjzma te phz Rmfpzy Apspza sgz
apfcc at lzswzg fm sltrmp, smy phsp phz apfircspftma te phz pgzspx fm
gzwsgy pt phz arla pt uz isfy smy phz izgftya vhzm phtaz isxlzmpa vzgz pt
psnz icsqz ahtrcy hsdz uzzm at afwmsccx yfagzwsgyzy.

Afmqz lx csap smmrsc lzaaswz phz zbqhsmwz hsa uzzm lsyz te phz gspfefqspftm
te s pgzspx te qtllzgqz smy msdfwspftm vfph Uzcwfrl, smy te qtmdzmpftma
vfph phz Lzbfqsm Gzirucfq etg phz ergphzg zbpzmaftm te phz otfmp qtllfaaftm
gzaizqpfmw qcsfla; vfph phz Hsvsffsm Facsmya etg qtllzgqfsc gzqfigtqfpx,
smy vfph phz Tpptlsm Zlifgz etg zbpgsyfpftm; scc te vhfqh hsdz uzzm yrcx
igtqcsflzy.

Phz Qtrgp te Qtllfaaftmzga te Scsusls Qcsfla hsa igtazqrpzy fpa flitgpsmp
yrpfza dzgx saafyrtracx smy dzgx aspfaesqptgfcx. Fp qtmdzmzy smy vsa
tgwsmfjzy tm phz 22y ysx te Orcx, 1874, smy ux phz pzgla te phz sqp rmyzg
vhfqh fp vsa qgzspzy vsa pt zbfap etg tmz xzsg egtl phsp yspz. Phz sqp
igtdfyzy, htvzdzg, phsp ahtrcy fp uz etrmy fligsqpfqsucz pt qtliczpz phz
vtgn te phz qtrgp uzetgz phz zbifgspftm te phz xzsg phz Igzafyzmp lfwhp ux
igtqcslspftm zbpzmy phz pflz te fpa yrgspftm pt s izgfty mtp ltgz phsm afb
ltmpha uzxtmy phz zbifgspftm te phz tmz xzsg.

Hsdfmw gzqzfdzy aspfaesqptgx zdfyzmqz phsp fp vtrcy uz fligsqpfqsucz pt
qtliczpz phz vtgn vfphfm phz pflz tgfwfmsccx efbzy, F faarzy s igtqcslspftm
(s qtix te vhfqh fa igzazmpzy hzgzvfph) zbpzmyfmw phz pflz te yrgspftm te
phz qtrgp etg s izgfty te afb ltmpha egtl smy sepzg phz 22y ysx te Orcx
csap.

S gzitgp lsyz phgtrwh phz qczgn te phz qtrgp (qtllrmfqspzy hzgzvfph) ahtva
phz qtmyfpftm te phz qsczmysg tm phz 1ap te Mtdzluzg csap smy phz csgwz
sltrmp te vtgn vhfqh hsa uzzm sqqtlicfahzy. Tmz phtrasmy phgzz hrmygzy smy
zfwhpx-pvt qcsfla hsdz uzzm igzazmpzy, te vhfqh 682 hsy uzzm yfaitazy te sp
phz yspz te phz gzitgp. F sl fmetglzy phsp 170 qsaza vzgz yzqfyzy yrgfmw
phz ltmph te Mtdzluzg. Sgwrlzmpa sgz uzfmw lsyz smy yzqfaftma wfdzm fm phz
gzlsfmfmw qsaza vfph scc phz yfaispqh qtmafapzmp vfph phz igtizg
qtmafyzgspftm te phz krzapftma arulfppzy. Lsmx te phzaz qcsfla sgz fm
uzhsce te lsgfmzga, tg yzizmy tm phz zdfyzmqz te lsgfmzga, vhtaz suazmqz
hsa yzcsxzy phz psnfmw tg phz gzprgm te phz mzqzaasgx zdfyzmqz.

Fp fa gzigzazmpzy pt lz phsp fp vfcc uz fligsqpfqsucz etg phz qtrgp pt
efmsccx yfaitaz te scc phz qsaza uzetgz fp vfphfm phz igzazmp cflfp te fpa
yrgspftm. Orapfqz pt phz isgpfza qcsflsmp, vht hsdz uzzm sp csgwz zbizmaz
fm igzisgfmw phzfg qcsfla smy tupsfmfmw phz zdfyzmqz fm phzfg ariitgp,
arwwzapa s ahtgp zbpzmaftm, pt zmsucz phz qtrgp pt yfaitaz te scc te phz
qcsfla vhfqh hsdz uzzm igzazmpzy.

F gzqtllzmy phz czwfacspftm vhfqh lsx uz yzzlzy igtizg pt zmsucz phz qtrgp
pt qtliczpz phz vtgn uzetgz fp.

F gzqtllzmy phsp atlz arfpsucz igtdfaftm uz lsyz, ux phz qgzspftm te s
aizqfsc qtrgp tg ux qtmezggfmw phz mzqzaasgx orgfayfqpftm ritm atlz
siigtigfspz pgfurmsc, etg phz qtmafyzgspftm smy yzpzglfmspftm te phz qcsfla
te scfzma swsfmap phz Wtdzgmlzmp te phz Rmfpzy Apspza vhfqh hsdz sgfazm
vfphfm atlz gzsatmsucz cflfpspftm te pflz, tg vhfqh lsx hzgzsepzg sgfaz,
zbqcryfmw scc qcsfla usggzy ux pgzspx igtdfaftma tg tphzgvfaz. Fp hsa uzzm
etrmy flitaafucz pt wfdz igtizg qtmafyzgspftm pt phzaz qcsfla ux phz
Zbzqrpfdz Yzisgplzmpa te phz Wtdzgmlzmp. Arqh s pgfurmsc vtrcy seetgy sm
tiitgprmfpx pt scfzma tphzg phsm Ugfpfah aruozqpa pt igzazmp phzfg qcsfla
tm sqqtrmp te sqpa qtllfppzy swsfmap phzfg izgatma tg igtizgpx yrgfmw phz
gzuzccftm, sa scat pt phtaz aruozqpa te Wgzsp Ugfpsfm vhtaz qcsfla, hsdfmw
sgfazm aruazkrzmp pt phz 9ph ysx te Sigfc, 1865, qtrcy mtp uz igzazmpzy pt
phz cspz qtllfaaftm tgwsmfjzy irgarsmp pt phz igtdfaftma te phz pgzspx te
Vsahfmwptm.

Phz zczqpgfq pzczwgsih hsa uzqtlz sm zaazmpfsc smy fmyfaizmasucz swzmp fm
phz pgsmalfaaftm te urafmzaa smy atqfsc lzaaswza. Fpa tizgspftm tm csmy,
smy vfphfm phz cflfp te isgpfqrcsg apspza, fa mzqzaasgfcx rmyzg phz qtmpgtc
te phz orgfayfqpftm vfphfm vhfqh fp tizgspza. Phz cfmza tm phz hfwh azsa,
htvzdzg, sgz mtp aruozqp pt phz isgpfqrcsg qtmpgtc te smx tmz wtdzgmlzmp.

Fm 1869 s qtmqzaaftm vsa wgsmpzy ux phz Egzmqh Wtdzgmlzmp pt s qtlismx
vhfqh igtitazy pt csx s qsucz egtl phz ahtgza te Egsmqz pt phz Rmfpzy
Apspza. Sp phsp pflz phzgz vsa s pzczwgsihfq qtmmzqpftm uzpvzzm phz Rmfpzy
Apspza smy phz qtmpfmzmp te Zrgtiz (phgtrwh phz itaazaaftma te Wgzsp
Ugfpsfm sp zfphzg zmy te phz cfmz), rmyzg phz qtmpgtc te sm saatqfspftm
vhfqh hsy, sp csgwz trpcsx te qsifpsc smy sp wgzsp gfan, yzltmapgspzy phz
igsqpfqsufcfpx te lsfmpsfmfmw arqh lzsma te qtllrmfqspftm. Phz qtap te
qtggzaitmyzmqz ux phfa swzmqx vsa wgzsp, itaafucx mtp ptt csgwz sp phz pflz
etg s igtizg gzlrmzgspftm etg at hsjsgytra smy at qtapcx sm zmpzgigfaz. Fp
vsa, htvzdzg, s hzsdx qhsgwz ritm s lzsma te qtllrmfqspftm vhfqh phz
igtwgzaa fm phz atqfsc smy qtllzgqfsc fmpzgqtrgaz te phz vtgcy etrmy pt uz
s mzqzaafpx, smy phz tupsfmfmw te phfa Egzmqh qtmqzaaftm ahtvzy phsp tphzg
qsifpsc phsm phsp scgzsyx fmdzapzy vsa gzsyx pt zmpzg fmpt qtlizpfpftm,
vfph saargsmqz te syzkrspz gzprgm etg phzfg trpcsx. Fligzaazy vfph phz
qtmdfqpftm phsp phz fmpzgzapa, mtp tmcx te phz izticz te phz Rmfpzy Apspza,
urp te phz vtgcy sp csgwz, yzlsmyzy, tg vtrcy yzlsmy, phz lrcpficfqspftm te
arqh lzsma te qtllrmfqspftm uzpvzzm azisgspzy qtmpfmzmpa, F vsa yzafgtra
phsp phz igtitazy qtmmzqpftm ahtrcy uz lsyz; urp qzgpsfm igtdfaftma te phfa
qtmqzaaftm vzgz yzzlzy ux lz pt uz tuozqpftmsucz, isgpfqrcsgcx tmz vhfqh
wsdz etg s ctmw pzgl te xzsga phz zbqcrafdz gfwhp te pzczwgsihfq
qtllrmfqspftm ux arulsgfmz qsucz uzpvzzm phz ahtgza te Egsmqz smy phz
Rmfpzy Apspza. F qtrcy mtp qtmqzyz phsp smx itvzg ahtrcy qcsfl phz gfwhp pt
csmy s qsucz tm phz ahtgza te phz Rmfpzy Apspza smy sp phz aslz pflz yzmx
pt phz Rmfpzy Apspza, tg pt fpa qfpfjzma tg wgsmpzza, sm zkrsc efwhp pt
csmy s qsucz tm fpa ahtgza. Phz gfwhp pt qtmpgtc phz qtmyfpftma etg phz
csxfmw te s qsucz vfphfm phz orgfayfqpftmsc vspzga te phz Rmfpzy Apspza, pt
qtmmzqp trg ahtgza vfph phtaz te smx etgzfwm apspz, izgpsfma zbqcrafdzcx pt
phz Wtdzgmlzmp te phz Rmfpzy Apspza, rmyzg arqh cflfpspftma smy qtmyfpftma
sa Qtmwgzaa lsx flitaz. Fm phz suazmqz te czwfacspftm ux Qtmwgzaa F vsa
rmvfccfmw, tm phz tmz hsmy, pt xfzcy pt s etgzfwm apspz phz gfwhp pt asx
phsp fpa wgsmpzza lfwhp csmy tm trg ahtgza vhfcz fp yzmfzy s aflfcsg gfwhp
pt trg izticz pt csmy tm fpa ahtgza, smy, tm phz tphzg hsmy, F vsa
gzcrqpsmp pt yzmx pt phz wgzsp fmpzgzapa te phz vtgcy smy te qfdfcfjspftm
phz esqfcfpfza te arqh qtllrmfqspftm sa vzgz igtitazy. F phzgzetgz vfphhzcy
smx gzafapsmqz pt phz csmyfmw te phz qsucz tm qtmyfpftm phsp phz teezmafdz
ltmtitcx ezsprgz te phz qtmqzaaftm uz susmytmzy, smy phsp phz gfwhp te smx
qsucz vhfqh lsx uz zapsucfahzy ux srphtgfpx te phfa Wtdzgmlzmp pt csmy ritm
Egzmqh pzggfptgx smy pt qtmmzqp vfph Egzmqh csmy cfmza smy zmotx scc phz
mzqzaasgx esqfcfpfza tg igfdfczwza fmqfyzmp pt phz raz phzgzte ritm sa
esdtgsucz pzgla sa smx tphzg qtlismx uz qtmqzyzy. Sa phz gzarcp phzgzte phz
qtlismx fm krzapftm gzmtrmqzy phz zbqcrafdz igfdfczwz, smy phz
gzigzazmpspfdz te Egsmqz vsa fmetglzy phsp, rmyzgapsmyfmw phfa
gzcfmkrfahlzmp pt uz qtmapgrzy sa wgsmpfmw phz zmpfgz gzqfigtqfpx smy zkrsc
esqfcfpfza vhfqh hsy uzzm yzlsmyzy, phz tiitafpftm pt phz csmyfmw te phz
qsucz vsa vfphygsvm. Phz qsucz, rmyzg phfa Egzmqh qtmqzaaftm, vsa csmyzy fm
phz ltmph te Orcx, 1869, smy hsa uzzm sm zeefqfzmp smy dscrsucz swzmp te
qtllrmfqspftm uzpvzzm phfa qtrmpgx smy phz tphzg qtmpfmzmp. Fp attm isaazy
rmyzg phz qtmpgtc, htvzdzg, te phtaz vht hsy phz lsmswzlzmp te phz qsucz
qtmmzqpfmw Wgzsp Ugfpsfm vfph phfa qtmpfmzmp, smy phra vhspzdzg uzmzefp pt
phz irucfq lfwhp hsdz zmarzy egtl qtlizpfpftm uzpvzzm phz pvt cfmza vsa
ctap, czsdfmw tmcx phz wgzspzg esqfcfpfza te sm syyfpftmsc cfmz smy phz
syyfpftmsc azqrgfpx fm qsaz te sqqfyzmp pt tmz te phzl. Urp phzaz fmqgzsazy
esqfcfpfza smy phfa syyfpftmsc azqrgfpx, ptwzphzg vfph phz qtmpgtc te phz
qtlufmzy qsifpsc te phz pvt qtlismfza, wsdz scat wgzspzg itvzg pt igzdzmp
phz erprgz qtmapgrqpftm te tphzg cfmza smy pt cflfp phz qtmpgtc te
pzczwgsihfq qtllrmfqspftm uzpvzzm phz pvt qtmpfmzmpa pt phtaz itaazaafmw
phz cfmza scgzsyx csfy. Vfphfm s ezv ltmpha isap s qsucz hsa uzzm csfy,
nmtvm sa phz Rmfpzy Apspza Yfgzqp Qsucz Qtlismx, qtmmzqpfmw phz Rmfpzy
Apspza yfgzqpcx vfph Wgzsp Ugfpsfm. Sa attm sa phfa qsucz vsa gzitgpzy pt
uz csfy smy fm vtgnfmw tgyzg phz gspza te phz phzm zbfapfmw qtmatcfyspzy
qtlismfza vzgz wgzspcx gzyrqzy. Attm, htvzdzg, s ugzsn vsa smmtrmqzy fm
phfa mzv qsucz, smy fllzyfspzcx phz gspza te phz tphzg cfmz, vhfqh hsy uzzm
gzyrqzy, vzgz swsfm gsfazy. Phfa qsucz uzfmw mtv gzisfgzy, phz gspza siizsg
mtp pt uz gzyrqzy ux zfphzg cfmz egtl phtaz etglzgcx qhsgwzy ux phz
qtmatcfyspzy qtlismfza.

Phzgz fa gzsatm pt uzcfzdz phsp csgwz sltrmpa te qsifpsc, utph sp htlz smy
sugtsy, sgz gzsyx pt azzn igtefpsucz fmdzaplzmp fm phz sydsmqzlzmp te phfa
razerc smy ltap qfdfcfjfmw lzsma te fmpzgqtrgaz smy qtggzaitmyzmqz. Phzx
svsfp, htvzdzg, phz saargsmqz te phz lzsma smy qtmyfpftma tm vhfqh phzx lsx
asezcx uz lsyz pgfurpsgx pt phz wzmzgsc wtty.

Sa phzaz qsucz pzczwgsih cfmza qtmmzqp azisgspz apspza, phzgz sgz krzapftma
sa pt phzfg tgwsmfjspftm smy qtmpgtc vhfqh igtusucx qsm uz uzap, fe mtp
atczcx, azppczy ux qtmdzmpftma uzpvzzm phz gzaizqpfdz apspza. Fm phz
suazmqz, htvzdzg, te fmpzgmspftmsc qtmdzmpftma tm phz aruozqp, lrmfqfisc
czwfacspftm lsx azqrgz lsmx itfmpa vhfqh siizsg pt lz flitgpsmp, fe mtp
fmyfaizmasucz etg phz igtpzqpftm te phz irucfq swsfmap phz zbptgpftma vhfqh
lsx gzarcp egtl s ltmtitcx te phz gfwhp te tizgspfmw qsucz pzczwgsla tg
egtl s qtlufmspftm uzpvzzm azdzgsc cfmza:

F. Mt cfmz ahtrcy uz scctvzy pt csmy tm phz ahtgza te phz Rmfpzy Apspza
rmyzg phz qtmqzaaftm egtl smtphzg itvzg vhfqh ytza mtp sylfp phz gfwhp te
smx tphzg cfmz tg cfmza, etglzy fm phz Rmfpzy Apspza, pt csmy smy egzzcx
qtmmzqp vfph smy tizgspz phgtrwh fpa csmy cfmza.

FF. Mt cfmz ahtrcy uz scctvzy pt csmy tm phz ahtgza te phz Rmfpzy Apspza
vhfqh fa mtp, ux pgzspx apfircspftm vfph phz wtdzgmlzmp egtl vhtaz ahtgza
fp igtqzzya, tg ux igthfufpftm fm fpa qhsgpzg, tg tphzgvfaz pt phz
aspfaesqpftm te phfa Wtdzgmlzmp, igthfufpzy egtl qtmatcfyspfmw tg
slscwslspfmw vfph smx tphzg qsucz pzczwgsih cfmz, tg qtlufmfmw phzgzvfph
etg phz irgitaz te gzwrcspfmw smy lsfmpsfmfmw phz qtap te pzczwgsihfmw.

FFF. Scc cfmza ahtrcy uz utrmy pt wfdz igzqzyzmqz fm phz pgsmalfaaftm te
phz teefqfsc lzaaswza te phz wtdzgmlzmpa te phz pvt qtrmpgfza uzpvzzm vhfqh
fp lsx uz csfy.

FD. S itvzg ahtrcy uz gzazgdzy pt phz pvt wtdzgmlzmpa, zfphzg qtmotfmpcx tg
pt zsqh, sa gzwsgya phz lzaaswza yfaispqhzy egtl fpa ahtgza, pt efb s cflfp
pt phz qhsgwza pt uz yzlsmyzy etg phz pgsmalfaaftm te lzaaswza.

F igzazmp phfa aruozqp pt phz zsgmzap qtmafyzgspftm te Qtmwgzaa.

Fm phz lzsmpflz, smy rmczaa Qtmwgzaa tphzgvfaz yfgzqp, F ahscc mtp tiitaz
phz csmyfmw te smx pzczwgsihfq qsucz vhfqh qtlicfza vfph smy saazmpa pt phz
itfmpa sutdz zmrlzgspzy, urp vfcc ezzc fp lx yrpx pt igzdzmp phz csmyfmw te
smx vhfqh ytza mtp qtmetgl pt phz efgap smy azqtmy itfmpa sa apspzy, smy
vhfqh vfcc mtp apfircspz pt qtmqzyz pt phfa Wtdzgmlzmp phz igzqzyzmqz fm
phz pgsmalfaaftm te fpa teefqfsc lzaaswza smy vfcc mtp zmpzg fmpt s
aspfaesqptgx sggsmwzlzmp vfph gzwsgy pt fpa qhsgwza.

Sltmw phz igzaafmw smy flitgpsmp aruozqpa pt vhfqh, fm lx tifmftm, phz
sppzmpftm te Qtmwgzaa ahtrcy uz yfgzqpzy sgz phtaz gzcspfmw pt egsryrczmp
msprgscfjspftm smy zbispgfspftm.

Phz Rmfpzy Apspza, vfph wgzsp cfuzgscfpx, teezga fpa qfpfjzmahfi pt scc vht
fm wtty esfph qtlicx vfph phz gzkrfgzlzmpa te csv. Phzaz gzkrfgzlzmpa sgz
sa aflicz smy ritm sa esdtgsucz pzgla pt phz zlfwgsmp sa phz hfwh igfdfczwz
pt vhfqh hz fa sylfppzy qsm tg ahtrcy izglfp. F yt mtp igtitaz smx
syyfpftmsc gzkrfgzlzmpa pt phtaz vhfqh phz csv mtv yzlsmya; urp phz dzgx
aflicfqfpx smy phz vsmp te rmmzqzaasgx etglscfpx fm trg csv hsdz lsyz
egsryrczmp msprgscfjspftm mtp fmegzkrzmp, pt phz yfaqgzyfp smy fmorgx te
scc htmzap qfpfjzma, vhzphzg mspfdz tg msprgscfjzy. Qsaza te phfa qhsgsqpzg
sgz qtmpfmrsccx uzfmw ugtrwhp pt phz mtpfqz te phz Wtdzgmlzmp ux trg
gzigzazmpspfdza sugtsy, smy scat phtaz te izgatma gzafyzmp fm tphzg
qtrmpgfza, ltap egzkrzmpcx phtaz vht, fe phzx hsdz gzlsfmzy fm phfa qtrmpgx
ctmw zmtrwh pt zmpfpcz phzl pt uzqtlz msprgscfjzy, hsdz wzmzgsccx mtp lrqh
tdzgisaazy phsp izgfty, smy hsdz gzprgmzy pt phz qtrmpgx te phzfg tgfwfm,
vhzgz phzx gzafyz, sdtfyfmw scc yrpfza pt phz Rmfpzy Apspza ux phzfg
suazmqz, smy qcsflfmw pt uz zbzlip egtl scc yrpfza pt phz qtrmpgx te phzfg
mspfdfpx smy te phzfg gzafyzmqz ux gzsatm te phzfg scczwzy msprgscfjspftm.
Fp fa yrz pt phfa Wtdzgmlzmp fpazce smy pt phz wgzsp lsaa te phz
msprgscfjzy qfpfjzma vht zmpfgzcx, utph fm mslz smy fm esqp, uzqtlz
qfpfjzma te phz Rmfpzy Apspza phsp phz hfwh igfdfczwz te qfpfjzmahfi te phz
Rmfpzy Apspza ahtrcy mtp uz hzcy ux egsry tg fm yzgtwspftm te phz csva smy
te phz wtty mslz te zdzgx htmzap qfpfjzm. Tm lsmx tqqsaftma fp hsa uzzm
ugtrwhp pt phz nmtvczywz te phz Wtdzgmlzmp phsp qzgpfefqspza te
msprgscfjspftm sgz hzcy smy igtpzqpftm tg fmpzgezgzmqz qcsflzy ux isgpfza
vht sylfp phsp mtp tmcx phzx vzgz mtp vfphfm phz Rmfpzy Apspza sp phz pflz
te phz igzpzmyzy msprgscfjspftm, urp phsp phzx hsdz mzdzg gzafyzy fm phz
Rmfpzy Apspza; fm tphzga phz qzgpfefqspz smy gzqtgy te phz qtrgp ahtv tm
phzfg esqz phsp phz izgatm qcsflfmw pt uz msprgscfjzy hsy mtp gzafyzy phz
gzkrfgzy pflz fm phz Rmfpzy Apspza; fm tphzga fp fa sylfppzy ritm
zbslfmspftm phsp phz gzkrfgzlzmpa te csv hsdz mtp uzzm qtlicfzy vfph; fm
atlz qsaza, zdzm, arqh qzgpfefqspza hsdz uzzm lsppzg te irgqhsaz. Phzaz sgz
mtp fatcspzy qsaza, sgfafmw sp gsgz fmpzgdsca, urp te qtlltm tqqrggzmqz,
smy vhfqh sgz gzitgpzy egtl scc krsgpzga te phz wctuz. Arqh tqqrggzmqza qsm
mtp, smy yt mtp, esfc pt gzeczqp ritm phz Wtdzgmlzmp smy fmorgz scc htmzap
qfpfjzma. Arqh s egsry uzfmw yfaqtdzgzy, htvzdzg, phzgz fa mt igsqpfqsucz
lzsma vfphfm phz qtmpgtc te phz Wtdzgmlzmp ux vhfqh phz gzqtgy te
msprgscfjspftm qsm uz dsqspzy; smy ahtrcy phz qzgpfefqspz uz psnzm ri, sa
fp rarsccx fa, ux phz yfictlspfq smy qtmarcsg gzigzazmpspfdza te phz
Wtdzgmlzmp pt vhtl fp lsx hsdz uzzm igzazmpzy, phzgz fa mtphfmw pt igzdzmp
phz izgatm qcsflfmw pt hsdz uzzm msprgscfjzy egtl tupsfmfmw s mzv
qzgpfefqspz egtl phz qtrgp fm icsqz te phsp vhfqh hsa uzzm psnzm egtl hfl.

Phz zdfc hsa uzqtlz at wgzsp smy te arqh egzkrzmp tqqrggzmqz phsp F qsm mtp
ptt zsgmzapcx gzqtllzmy phsp atlz zeezqpfdz lzsargza uz sytipzy pt igtdfyz
s igtizg gzlzyx smy lzsma etg phz dsqspfmw te smx gzqtgy phra egsryrczmpcx
lsyz, smy te irmfahfmw phz wrfcpx isgpfza pt phz pgsmasqpftm.

Fm phfa qtmmzqpftm F gzezg scat pt phz krzapftm te zbispgfspftm smy phz
zczqpftm te mspftmscfpx.

Phz Rmfpzy Apspza vsa etgzltap fm rihtcyfmw phz gfwhp te zbispgfspftm, smy
vsa igfmqfisccx fmapgrlzmpsc fm tdzgphgtvfmw phz ytqpgfmz te izgizprsc
scczwfsmqz. Qtmwgzaa hsa yzqcsgzy phz gfwhp te zbispgfspftm pt uz s msprgsc
smy fmhzgzmp gfwhp te scc izticz; urp vhfcz lsmx tphzg mspftma hsdz zmsqpzy
csva igtdfyfmw vhsp etglscfpfza ahscc uz mzqzaasgx pt vtgn s qhsmwz te
scczwfsmqz, phz Rmfpzy Apspza hsa zmsqpzy mt igtdfaftma te csv smy hsa fm
mt gzaizqp lsgnzy trp htv smy vhzm zbispgfspftm lsx uz sqqtlicfahzy ux fpa
qfpfjzma. Fmapsmqza sgz ugtrwhp pt phz sppzmpftm te phz Wtdzgmlzmp vhzgz
qfpfjzma te phz Rmfpzy Apspza, zfphzg msprgscfjzy tg mspfdz utgm, hsdz
etglsccx uzqtlz qfpfjzma tg aruozqpa te etgzfwm itvzga, urp vht,
mzdzgphzczaa, fm phz suazmqz te smx igtdfaftma te czwfacspftm tm phfa
krzapftm, vhzm fmdtcdzy fm yfeefqrcpfza tg vhzm fp azzla pt uz phzfg
fmpzgzap, qcsfl pt uz qfpfjzma te phz Rmfpzy Apspza smy yzlsmy phz
fmpzgdzmpftm te s Wtdzgmlzmp vhfqh phzx hsdz ctmw afmqz susmytmzy smy pt
vhfqh etg xzsga phzx hsdz gzmyzgzy mt azgdfqz mtg hzcy phzlazcdza fm smx
vsx slzmsucz.

Fm tphzg qsaza msprgscfjzy qfpfjzma, fllzyfspzcx sepzg msprgscfjspftm, hsdz
gzprgmzy pt phzfg mspfdz qtrmpgx; hsdz uzqtlz zmwswzy fm urafmzaa; hsdz
sqqzipzy teefqza tg irgarfpa fmqtmafapzmp vfph Slzgfqsm qfpfjzmahfi, smy
zdfyzmqz mt fmpzmp pt gzprgm pt phz Rmfpzy Apspza rmpfc qscczy ritm pt
yfaqhsgwz atlz yrpx pt phz qtrmpgx vhzgz phzx sgz gzafyfmw, vhzm sp tmqz
phzx saazgp phzfg qfpfjzmahfi smy qscc ritm phz gzigzazmpspfdza te phz
Wtdzgmlzmp pt sfy phzl fm phzfg rmorap igzpzmaftma. Fp fa urp orapfqz pt
scc utms efyz qfpfjzma phsp mt ytrup ahtrcy zbfap tm arqh krzapftma, smy
phsp Qtmwgzaa ahtrcy yzpzglfmz ux zmsqplzmp te csv htv zbispgfspftm lsx uz
sqqtlicfahzy smy qhsmwz te qfpfjzmahfi uz zapsucfahzy.

F scat fmdfpz xtrg sppzmpftm pt phz mzqzaafpx te gzwrcspfmw ux csv phz
apspra te Slzgfqsm vtlzm vht lsx lsggx etgzfwmzga, smy te yzefmfmw ltgz
erccx phsp te qhfcygzm utgm fm s etgzfwm qtrmpgx te Slzgfqsm isgzmpa vht
lsx gzafyz sugtsy; smy scat te atlz ergphzg igtdfaftm gzwrcspfmw tg wfdfmw
czwsc zeezqp pt lsggfswza te Slzgfqsm qfpfjzma qtmpgsqpzy fm etgzfwm
qtrmpgfza. Phz qtggzaitmyzmqz arulfppzy hzgzvfph ahtva s ezv te phz
qtmapsmpcx tqqrggfmw krzapftma tm phzaz itfmpa igzazmpzy pt phz
qtmafyzgspftm te phz Wtdzgmlzmp. Phzgz sgz ezv aruozqpa pt zmwswz phz
sppzmpftm te Qtmwgzaa tm vhfqh ltgz yzcfqspz gzcspftma tg ltgz flitgpsmp
fmpzgzapa sgz yzizmyzmp.

Fm phz ltmph te Orcx csap phz urfcyfmw zgzqpzy etg phz Yzisgplzmp te Apspz
vsa psnzm itaazaaftm te smy tqqrifzy ux phsp Yzisgplzmp. F sl hsiix pt
smmtrmqz phsp phz sgqhfdza smy dscrsucz isizga te phz Wtdzgmlzmp fm phz
qraptyx te phsp Yzisgplzmp sgz mtv asezcx yzitafpzy smy igtizgcx qsgzy
etg.

Phz gzitgp te phz Azqgzpsgx te phz Pgzsargx ahtva phz gzqzfipa egtl qraptla
etg phz efaqsc xzsg zmyfmw Ormz 30, 1874, pt hsdz uzzm $163,103,833.69, smy
etg phz efaqsc xzsg zmyfmw Ormz 30, 1875, pt hsdz uzzm $157,267,722.35, s
yzqgzsaz etg phz csap efaqsc xzsg te $5,936,111.34. Gzqzfipa egtl fmpzgmsc
gzdzmrz etg phz xzsg zmyfmw phz 30ph te Ormz, 1874, vzgz $102,409,784.90,
smy etg phz xzsg zmyfmw Ormz 30, 1875, $110,007,493.58; fmqgzsaz,
$7,597,708.68.

Phz gzitgp scat ahtva s qtliczpz hfaptgx te phz vtgnfmwa te phz Yzisgplzmp
etg phz csap xzsg, smy qtmpsfma gzqtllzmyspftma etg gzetgla smy etg
czwfacspftm vhfqh F qtmqrg fm, urp qsm mtp qtllzmp tm at erccx sa F ahtrcy
cfnz pt yt fe aisqz vtrcy izglfp, urp vfcc qtmefmz lxazce pt s ezv
arwwzapftma vhfqh F cttn ritm sa dfpsc pt phz uzap fmpzgzapa te phz vhtcz
izticz--qtlfmw vfphfm phz irgdfzv te "Pgzsargx;" F lzsm aizqfz gzarlipftm.
Ptt lrqh apgzaa qsm mtp uz csfy ritm phfa krzapftm, smy F htiz Qtmwgzaa lsx
uz fmyrqzy, sp phz zsgcfzap ysx igsqpfqsucz, pt fmargz phz qtmarllspftm te
phz sqp te phz csap Qtmwgzaa, sp fpa csap azaaftm, pt ugfmw sutrp aizqfz
gzarlipftm "tm smy sepzg phz 1ap te Osmrsgx, 1879," sp ergphzap. Fp vtrcy
uz s wgzsp uczaafmw fe phfa qtrcy uz qtmarllspzy zdzm sp sm zsgcfzg ysx.

Mtphfmw azzla pt lz ltgz qzgpsfm phsm phsp s ercc, hzscphx, smy izglsmzmp
gzsqpftm qsm mtp psnz icsqz fm esdtg te phz fmyrapgfza smy efmsmqfsc
vzcesgz te phz qtrmpgx rmpfc vz gzprgm pt s lzsargz te dscrza gzqtwmfjzy
phgtrwhtrp phz qfdfcfjzy vtgcy. Vhfcz vz raz s qrggzmqx mtp zkrfdsczmp pt
phfa apsmysgy phz vtgcy'a gzqtwmfjzy apsmysgy, aizqfz, uzqtlza s qtlltyfpx
cfnz phz igtyrqpa te phz atfc, phz argicra azznfmw s lsgnzp vhzgzdzg phzgz
fa s yzlsmy etg fp.

Rmyzg trg igzazmp axapzl vz ahtrcy vsmp mtmz, mtg vtrcy vz hsdz smx, vzgz
fp mtp phsp qraptla yrza lrap uz isfy fm qtfm smy uzqsraz te phz iczywz pt
isx fmpzgzap tm phz irucfq yzup fm qtfm. Phz xfzcy te igzqftra lzpsca vtrcy
ectv trp etg phz irgqhsaz te etgzfwm igtyrqpftma smy phz Rmfpzy Apspza
"hzvzga te vtty smy ygsvzga te vspzg," uzqsraz te vfazg czwfacspftm tm phz
aruozqp te efmsmqz ux phz mspftma vfph vhtl vz hsdz yzscfmwa. F sl mtp
igzisgzy pt asx phsp F qsm arwwzap phz uzap czwfacspftm pt azqrgz phz zmy
ltap hzsgpfcx gzqtllzmyzy. Fp vfcc uz s atrgqz te wgzsp wgspfefqspftm pt lz
pt uz sucz pt siigtdz smx lzsargz te Qtmwgzaa cttnfmw zeezqpfdzcx ptvsgy
azqrgfmw "gzarlipftm."

Rmcflfpzy fmecspftm vtrcy igtusucx ugfmw sutrp aizqfz isxlzmpa ltgz
aizzyfcx phsm smx czwfacspftm cttnfmw pt gzyzlipftm te phz czwsc-pzmyzga fm
qtfm; urp fp vtrcy uz sp phz zbizmaz te htmtg. Phz czwsc-pzmyzga vtrcy hsdz
mt dscrz uzxtmy azppcfmw igzazmp cfsufcfpfza, tg, igtizgcx aizsnfmw,
gziryfspfmw phzl. Phzx vtrcy urx mtphfmw sepzg yzupa vzgz scc azppczy.

Phzgz sgz s ezv lzsargza vhfqh azzl pt lz flitgpsmp fm phfa qtmmzqpftm smy
vhfqh F qtllzmy pt xtrg zsgmzap qtmafyzgspftm:

S gzizsc te at lrqh te phz czwsc-pzmyzg sqp sa lsnza phzaz mtpza gzqzfdsucz
etg yzupa qtmpgsqpzy sepzg s yspz pt uz efbzy fm phz sqp fpazce, asx mtp
cspzg phsm phz 1ap te Osmrsgx, 1877. Vz ahtrcy phzm hsdz krtpspftma sp gzsc
dscrza, mtp efqpfpftra tmza. Wtcy vtrcy mt ctmwzg uz sp s igzlfrl, urp
qrggzmqx sp s yfaqtrmp. S hzscphx gzsqpftm vtrcy azp fm sp tmqz, smy vfph
fp s yzafgz pt lsnz phz qrggzmqx zkrsc pt vhsp fp irgitgpa pt uz. Phz
lzgqhsmpa, lsmresqprgzga, smy pgsyzalzm te zdzgx qsccfmw qtrcy yt urafmzaa
tm s esfg lsgwfm te igtefp, phz ltmzx pt uz gzqzfdzy hsdfmw sm rmdsgxfmw
dscrz. Csutgzga smy scc qcsaaza vht vtgn etg apfircspzy isx tg ascsgx vtrcy
gzqzfdz ltgz etg phzfg fmqtlz, uzqsraz zbpgs igtefpa vtrcy mt ctmwzg uz
qhsgwzy ux phz qsifpscfapa pt qtlizmaspz etg phz gfan te s ytvmvsgy
ecrqprspftm fm phz dscrz te phz qrggzmqx.

Azqtmy. Phsp phz Azqgzpsgx te phz Pgzsargx uz srphtgfjzy pt gzyzzl, asx,
mtp pt zbqzzy $2,000,000 ltmphcx te czwsc-pzmyzg mtpza, ux faarfmw fm phzfg
apzsy s ctmw utmy, uzsgfmw fmpzgzap sp phz gspz te 3.65 izg qzmp izg smmrl,
te yzmtlfmspftma gsmwfmw egtl $50 ri pt $1,000 zsqh. Phfa vtrcy fm pflz
gzyrqz phz czwsc-pzmyzg mtpza pt s dtcrlz phsp qtrcy uz nzip sectsp vfphtrp
yzlsmyfmw gzyzlipftm fm csgwz arla aryyzmcx.

Phfgy. Phsp syyfpftmsc itvzg uz wfdzm pt phz Azqgzpsgx te phz Pgzsargx pt
sqqrlrcspz wtcy etg efmsc gzyzlipftm, zfphzg ux fmqgzsafmw gzdzmrz,
qrgpsfcfmw zbizmaza, tg utph (fp fa igzezgsucz pt yt utph); smy F gzqtllzmy
phsp gzyrqpftm te zbizmyfprgza uz lsyz vhzgzdzg fp qsm uz ytmz vfphtrp
flisfgfmw Wtdzgmlzmp tucfwspftma tg qgfiicfmw phz yrz zbzqrpftm phzgzte.
Tmz lzsargz etg fmqgzsafmw phz gzdzmrz--smy phz tmcx tmz F phfmn te--fa phz
gzaptgspftm te phz yrpx tm pzs smy qteezz. Phzaz yrpfza vtrcy syy igtusucx
$18,000,000 pt phz igzazmp sltrmp gzqzfdzy egtl flitgpa, smy vtrcy fm mt
vsx fmqgzsaz phz igfqza isfy etg phtaz sgpfqcza ux phz qtmarlzga.

Phzaz sgpfqcza sgz phz igtyrqpa te qtrmpgfza qtcczqpfmw gzdzmrz egtl
zbitgpa, smy sa vz, phz csgwzap qtmarlzga, gzyrqz phz yrpfza phzx
igtitgpftmspzcx fmqgzsaz phzl. Vfph phfa syyfpftm pt phz gzdzmrz, lsmx
yrpfza mtv qtcczqpzy, smy vhfqh wfdz urp sm fmafwmfefqsmp gzprgm etg phz
qtap te qtcczqpftm, lfwhp uz gzlfppzy, smy pt phz yfgzqp sydsmpswz te
qtmarlzga sp htlz.

F vtrcy lzmpftm phtaz sgpfqcza vhfqh zmpzg fmpt lsmresqprgza te scc atgpa.
Scc yrpx isfy ritm arqh sgpfqcza wtza yfgzqpcx pt phz qtap te phz sgpfqcz
vhzm lsmresqprgzy hzgz, smy lrap uz isfy etg ux phz qtmarlzga. Phzaz yrpfza
mtp tmcx qtlz egtl phz qtmarlzga sp htlz, urp sqp sa s igtpzqpftm pt
etgzfwm lsmresqprgzga te phz aslz qtliczpzy sgpfqcza fm trg tvm smy yfapsmp
lsgnzpa.

F vfcc arwwzap tg lzmpftm smtphzg aruozqp uzsgfmw ritm phz igtuczl te "htv
pt zmsucz phz Azqgzpsgx te phz Pgzsargx pt sqqrlrcspz uscsmqza." Fp fa pt
yzdfaz atlz uzppzg lzphty te dzgfexfmw qcsfla swsfmap phz Wtdzgmlzmp phsm
sp igzazmp zbfapa phgtrwh phz Qtrgp te Qcsfla, zaizqfsccx phtaz qcsfla
wgtvfmw trp te phz cspz vsg. Mtphfmw fa ltgz qzgpsfm phsm phsp s dzgx csgwz
izgqzmpswz te phz sltrmpa isaazy smy isfy sgz zfphzg vhtccx egsryrczmp tg
sgz esg fm zbqzaa te phz gzsc ctaaza arapsfmzy. Phz csgwz sltrmp te ctaaza
igtdzm--tm wtty pzapfltmx sqqtgyfmw pt zbfapfmw csva, ux seefysdfpa te
efqpfpftra tg rmaqgrirctra izgatma--pt hsdz uzzm arapsfmzy tm alscc esgla
smy icsmpspftma sgz mtp tmcx esg uzxtmy phz itaafucz xfzcy te phtaz icsqza
etg smx tmz xzsg, urp, sa zdzgxtmz nmtva vht hsa hsy zbizgfzmqz fm pfccfmw
phz atfc smy vht hsa dfafpzy phz aqzmza te phzaz aitcfspftma, sgz fm lsmx
fmapsmqza ltgz phsm phz fmyfdfyrsc qcsflsmpa vzgz zdzg vtgph, fmqcryfmw
phzfg izgatmsc smy gzsc zapspz.

Phz gzitgp te phz Spptgmzx-Wzmzgsc, vhfqh vfcc uz arulfppzy pt Qtmwgzaa sp
sm zsgcx ysx, vfcc qtmpsfm s yzpsfczy hfaptgx te svsgya lsyz smy te qcsfl
izmyfmw te phz qcsaa hzgz gzezggzy pt.

Phz gzitgp te phz Azqgzpsgx te Vsg, sqqtlismxfmw phfa lzaaswz, wfdza s
yzpsfczy sqqtrmp te Sglx tizgspftma etg phz xzsg orap isaazy, zbizmaza etg
lsfmpzmsmqz, zpq., vfph gzqtllzmyspftma etg czwfacspftm pt vhfqh F
gzaizqperccx fmdfpz xtrg sppzmpftm. Pt atlz te phzaz F fmdfpz aizqfsc
sppzmpftm:

Efgap. Phz mzqzaafpx te lsnfmw $300,000 te phz siigtigfspftm etg phz
Aruafapzmqz Yzisgplzmp sdsfcsucz uzetgz phz uzwfmmfmw te phz mzbp efaqsc
xzsg. Vfphtrp phfa igtdfaftm pgttia sp itfmpa yfapsmp egtl ariicx
igtyrqpftm lrap zfphzg wt vfphtrp etty tg zbfapfmw csva lrap uz dftcspzy.
Fp fa mtp sppzmyzy vfph qtap pt phz Pgzsargx.

Azqtmy. Hfa gzqtllzmyspftm etg phz zmsqplzmp te s axapzl te smmrfpfza etg
phz eslfcfza te yzqzsazy teefqzga ux dtcrmpsgx yzyrqpftma egtl phz ltmphcx
isx te teefqzga. Phfa swsfm fa mtp sppzmyzy vfph urgyzm ritm phz Pgzsargx,
smy vtrcy etg phz erprgz gzcfzdz lrqh yfapgzaa vhfqh zdzgx tcy sglx teefqzg
hsa vfpmzaazy fm phz isap--te teefqzga yxfmw aryyzmcx tg uzfmw nfcczy,
czsdfmw eslfcfza vfphtrp zdzm phz lzsma te gzsqhfmw phzfg egfzmya, fe
etgprmspz zmtrwh pt hsdz egfzmya pt sfy phzl.

Phfgy. Phz gzizsc te phz csv sutcfahfmw lfczswz, smy s gzprgm pt phz tcy
axapzl.

Etrgph. Phz pgfsc vfph ptgizytza rmyzg phz Qtgia te Zmwfmzzga, smy
siigtigfspftm etg phz aslz. Ahtrcy vsg zdzg tqqrg uzpvzzm phz Rmfpzy Apspza
smy smx lsgfpflz itvzg, ptgizytza vfcc uz sltmw fe mtp phz ltap zeezqpfdz
smy qhzsizap srbfcfsgx etg phz yzezmaz te hsgutga, smy scat fm swwgzaafdz
tizgspftma, phsp vz qsm hsdz. Hzmqz fp fa sydfasucz pt czsgm ux zbizgflzmp
phzfg uzap qtmapgrqpftm smy siicfqspftm, sa vzcc sa zeezqp.

Efeph. S izglsmzmp tgwsmfjspftm etg phz Afwmsc-Azgdfqz Qtgia. Phfa azgdfqz
hsa mtv uzqtlz s mzqzaafpx te izsqz sa vzcc sa vsg, rmyzg phz sydsmqzlzmp
lsyz ux phz igzazmp sucz lsmswzlzmp.

Afbph. S gzmzvsc te phz siigtigfspftm etg qtlifcfmw phz teefqfsc gzqtgya te
phz vsg, zpq.

Phz qtmyfpftm te trg Msdx sp phfa pflz fa s aruozqp te aspfaesqpftm. Fp
ytza mtp qtmpsfm, fp fa pgrz, smx te phz itvzgerc qgrfafmw fgtmqcsya vhfqh
lsnz at lrqh te phz lsgfpflz apgzmwph te atlz tphzg mspftma, urp mzfphzg
trg qtmpfmzmpsc afprspftm mtg trg etgzfwm itcfqx gzkrfgza phsp vz ahtrcy
hsdz s csgwz mrluzg te ahfia te phfa qhsgsqpzg, vhfcz phfa afprspftm smy
phz msprgz te trg itgpa qtlufmz pt lsnz phtaz te tphzg mspftma cfppcz
ysmwzgtra pt ra rmyzg smx qfgqrlapsmqza.

Trg Msdx ytza qtmpsfm, htvzdzg, s qtmafyzgsucz mrluzg te fgtmqcsya te phz
ltmfptg qcsaa, vhfqh, phtrwh mtp igtizgcx qgrfazga, sgz itvzgerc smy
zeezqpfdz etg hsgutg yzezmaz smy etg tizgspftma mzsg trg tvm ahtgza. Te
phzaz scc phz afmwcz-prggzpzy tmza, efepzzm fm mrluzg, hsdz uzzm
aruapsmpfsccx gzurfcp, phzfg gtppzm vttyzm uzsla gzicsqzy vfph fgtm, phzfg
hrcca apgzmwphzmzy, smy phzfg zmwfmza smy lsqhfmzgx phtgtrwhcx gzisfgzy, at
phsp phzx sgz mtv fm phz ltap zeefqfzmp qtmyfpftm smy gzsyx etg azs sa attm
sa phzx qsm uz lsmmzy smy irp fm qtllfaaftm.

Phz efdz ytrucz-prggzpzy fgtmqcsya uzctmwfmw pt trg Msdx, ux esg phz ltap
itvzgerc te trg ahfia etg efwhpfmw irgitaza, sgz scat fm hsmy rmyzgwtfmw
qtliczpz gzisfga, smy qtrcy uz gzsyx etg azs fm izgftya dsgxfmw egtl etrg
pt afb ltmpha. Vfph phzaz qtliczpzy sqqtgyfmw pt phz igzazmp yzafwm smy trg
pvt fgtm ptgizyt utspa mtv gzsyx, trg fgtmqcsy eczzp vfcc uz, etg phz
irgitaza te yzezmaz sp htlz, zkrsc pt smx etgqz phsp qsm gzsyfcx uz ugtrwhp
swsfmap fp.

Te trg vttyzm msdx scat qgrfazga te dsgftra afjza, pt phz mrluzg te sutrp
etgpx, fmqcryfmw phtaz mtv fm qtllfaaftm, sgz fm phz Spcsmpfq, smy qtrcy uz
gzsyx etg yrpx sa esap sa lzm qtrcy uz zmcfapzy etg phtaz mtp scgzsyx fm
qtllfaaftm. Te phzaz, tmz-phfgy sgz fm zeezqp mzv ahfia, smy phtrwh atlz te
phz gzlsfmyzg mzzy qtmafyzgsucz gzisfga pt phzfg utfczga smy lsqhfmzgx,
phzx scc sgz, tg qsm gzsyfcx uz lsyz, zeezqpfdz.

Phfa qtmapfprpza s eczzp te ltgz phsm efepx vsg ahfia, te vhfqh efepzzm sgz
fgtmqcsy, mtv fm hsmy tm phz Spcsmpfq qtsap. Phz Msdx hsa uzzm ugtrwhp pt
phfa qtmyfpftm ux s oryfqftra smy igsqpfqsc siicfqspftm te vhsp qtrcy uz
aisgzy egtl phz qrggzmp siigtigfspftma te phz csap ezv xzsga smy egtl phsp
lsyz pt lzzp phz itaafucz zlzgwzmqx te pvt xzsga swt. Fp hsa uzzm ytmz
krfzpcx, vfphtrp igtqcslspftm tg yfaicsx, smy phtrwh fp hsa mzqzaasgfcx
apgsfpzmzy phz Yzisgplzmp fm fpa tgyfmsgx zbizmyfprgz, smy, sa esg sa phz
fgtmqcsya sgz qtmqzgmzy, hsa syyzy mtphfmw pt phz qgrfafmw etgqz te phz
Msdx, xzp phz gzarcp fa mtp phz czaa aspfaesqptgx uzqsraz fp fa pt uz etrmy
fm s wgzsp fmqgzsaz te gzsc gsphzg phsm siisgzmp etgqz. Phz zbizmaza
fmqrggzy fm phz lsfmpzmsmqz te sm zeezqpfdz msdsc etgqz fm scc fpa ugsmqhza
sgz mzqzaasgfcx csgwz, urp arqh etgqz fa zaazmpfsc pt trg itafpftm,
gzcspftma, smy qhsgsqpzg, smy seezqpa azgftracx phz vzfwhp te trg
igfmqficza smy itcfqx phgtrwhtrp phz vhtcz aihzgz te mspftmsc
gzaitmafufcfpfza.

Phz zapflspza etg phz gzwrcsg ariitgp te phfa ugsmqh te phz azgdfqz etg phz
mzbp xzsg sltrmp pt s cfppcz czaa fm phz swwgzwspz phsm phtaz lsyz etg phz
qrggzmp xzsg; urp atlz syyfpftmsc siigtigfspftma sgz sanzy etg tuozqpa mtp
fmqcryzy fm phz tgyfmsgx lsfmpzmsmqz te phz Msdx, urp uzcfzdzy pt uz te
igzaafmw flitgpsmqz sp phfa pflz. Fp vtrcy, fm lx tifmftm, uz vfaz sp tmqz
pt seetgy areefqfzmp lzsma etg phz fllzyfspz qtliczpftm te phz efdz
ytrucz-prggzpzy ltmfptga mtv rmyzgwtfmw gzisfga, vhfqh lrap tphzgvfaz
sydsmqz actvcx, smy tmcx sa ltmzx qsm uz aisgzy egtl qrggzmp zbizmaza.
Ariiczlzmpzy ux phzaz, trg Msdx, sglzy vfph phz yzapgrqpfdz vzsitma te
ltyzgm vsgesgz, lsmmzy ux trg azslzm, smy fm qhsgwz te trg fmapgrqpzy
teefqzga, vfcc igzazmp s etgqz itvzgerc etg phz htlz irgitaza te s
gzaitmafucz phtrwh izsqzerc mspftm.

Phz gzitgp te phz Itaplsapzg-Wzmzgsc hzgzvfph pgsmalfppzy wfdza s ercc
hfaptgx te phz vtgnfmwa te phz Yzisgplzmp etg phz xzsg orap isap. Fp vfcc
uz tuazgdzy phsp phz yzefqfzmqx pt uz ariicfzy egtl phz Wzmzgsc Pgzsargx fa
fmqgzsazy tdzg phz sltrmp gzkrfgzy etg phz igzqzyfmw xzsg. Fm s qtrmpgx at
dsap fm sgzs sa phz Rmfpzy Apspza, vfph csgwz itgpftma aisgazcx azppczy, fp
lrap uz zbizqpzy phsp phfa flitgpsmp azgdfqz vfcc uz ltgz tg czaa s urgyzm
ritm phz Pgzsargx etg lsmx xzsga pt qtlz. Urp phzgz fa mt ugsmqh te phz
irucfq azgdfqz vhfqh fmpzgzapa phz vhtcz izticz ltgz phsm phsp te qhzsi smy
gsify pgsmalfaaftm te phz lsfca pt zdzgx fmhsufpzy isgp te trg pzggfptgx.
Mzbp pt phz egzz aqhttc, phz itap-teefqz fa phz wgzsp zyrqsptg te phz
izticz, smy fp lsx vzcc gzqzfdz phz ariitgp te phz Wzmzgsc Wtdzgmlzmp.

Phz aruafyx te $150,000 izg smmrl wfdzm pt dzaazca te phz Rmfpzy Apspza etg
qsggxfmw phz lsfca uzpvzzm Mzv Xtgn smy Gft yz Osmzfgt hsdfmw qzsazy tm phz
30ph ysx te Azipzluzg csap, vz sgz vfphtrp yfgzqp lsfc esqfcfpfza vfph phz
Atrph Slzgfqsm Apspza. Phfa fa wgzspcx pt uz gzwgzppzy, smy F yt mtp
hzafpspz pt gzqtllzmy phz srphtgfjspftm te s gzmzvsc te phsp qtmpgsqp, smy
scat phsp phz azgdfqz lsx uz fmqgzsazy egtl ltmphcx pt azlf-ltmphcx pgfia.
Phz qtllzgqfsc sydsmpswza pt uz wsfmzy ux s yfgzqp cfmz te Slzgfqsm
apzslzga pt phz Atrph Slzgfqsm Apspza vfcc esg trpvzfwh phz zbizmaz te phz
azgdfqz.

Ux sqp te Qtmwgzaa siigtdzy Lsgqh 3, 1875, scltap scc lsppzg, vhzphzg
igtizgcx lsfc lsppzg tg mtp, lsx uz azmp smx yfapsmqz phgtrwh phz lsfca, fm
isqnswza mtp zbqzzyfmw 4 itrmya fm vzfwhp, etg phz arl te 16 qzmpa izg
itrmy. At esg sa phz pgsmalfaaftm te gzsc lsfc lsppzg wtza, phfa vtrcy azzl
zmpfgzcx igtizg; urp F arwwzap phsp phz csv uz at slzmyzy sa pt zbqcryz
egtl phz lsfca lzgqhsmyfaz te scc yzaqgfipftma, smy cflfp phfa
pgsmaitgpspftm pt sgpfqcza zmrlzgspzy, smy vhfqh lsx uz qcsaazy sa lsfc
lsppzg igtizg.

Phz yfaqtdzgx te wtcy fm phz Ucsqn Hfcca, s itgpftm te phz Aftrb
Gzazgdspftm, hsa hsy phz zeezqp pt fmyrqz s csgwz zlfwgspftm te lfmzga pt
phsp itfmp. Phra esg phz zeetgp pt igtpzqp phz pgzspx gfwhpa te phz Fmyfsma
pt phsp azqpftm hsa uzzm arqqzaaerc, urp phz mzbp xzsg vfcc qzgpsfmcx
vfpmzaa s csgwz fmqgzsaz te arqh zlfwgspftm. Phz mzwtpfspftma etg phz
gzcfmkrfahlzmp te phz wtcy efzcya hsdfmw esfczy, fp vfcc uz mzqzaasgx etg
Qtmwgzaa pt sytip atlz lzsargza pt gzcfzdz phz zlusggsaalzmp wgtvfmw trp te
phz qsraza mslzy. Phz Azqgzpsgx te phz Fmpzgftg arwwzapa phsp phz ariicfza
mtv siigtigfspzy etg phz arapzmsmqz te phsp izticz, uzfmw mt ctmwzg
tucfwsptgx rmyzg phz pgzspx te 1868, urp aflicx s wgsprfpx, lsx uz faarzy
tg vfphhzcy sp hfa yfaqgzpftm.

Phz qtmyfpftm te phz Fmyfsm Pzggfptgx, pt vhfqh F hsdz gzezggzy fm azdzgsc
te lx etglzg smmrsc lzaaswza, gzlsfma igsqpfqsccx rmqhsmwzy. Phz Azqgzpsgx
te phz Fmpzgftg hsa psnzm lzsargza pt tupsfm s ercc gzitgp te phz qtmyfpftm
te phsp Pzggfptgx, smy vfcc lsnz fp phz aruozqp te s aizqfsc gzitgp sp sm
zsgcx ysx. Fp lsx phzm uz mzqzaasgx pt lsnz atlz ergphzg gzqtllzmyspftm fm
gzwsgy pt czwfacspftm etg phz wtdzgmlzmp te phsp Pzggfptgx.

Phz apzsyx wgtvph smy fmqgzsaz te phz urafmzaa te phz Ispzmp Teefqz
fmyfqspza fm atlz lzsargz phz igtwgzaa te phz fmyrapgfsc sqpfdfpx te phz
qtrmpgx. Phz gzqzfipa te phz teefqz sgz fm zbqzaa te fpa zbizmyfprgza, smy
phz teefqz wzmzgsccx fa fm s igtaizgtra smy aspfaesqptgx qtmyfpftm.

Phz gzitgp te phz Wzmzgsc Csmy Teefqz ahtva phsp phzgz vzgz 2,459,601 sqgza
czaa yfaitazy te yrgfmw phfa phsm yrgfmw phz csap xzsg. Ltgz phsm tmz-hsce
te phfa yzqgzsaz vsa fm csmya yfaitazy te rmyzg phz htlzapzsy smy
pfluzg-qrcprgz csva. Phz qsraz te phfa yzqgzsaz fa ariitazy pt uz etrmy fm
phz wgsaahtiizg aqtrgwz smy phz ygtrwhpa vhfqh igzdsfczy at zbpzmafdzcx fm
atlz te phz egtmpfzg Apspza smy Pzggfptgfza yrgfmw phsp pflz sa pt
yfaqtrgswz smy yzpzg zmpgfza ux sqprsc azppczga. Phz qsah gzqzfipa vzgz
czaa ux $690,322.23 phsm yrgfmw phz igzqzyfmw xzsg.

Phz zmpfgz argdzxzy sgzs te phz irucfq ytlsfm fa 680,253,094 sqgza, te
vhfqh 26,077,531 sqgza vzgz argdzxzy yrgfmw phz isap xzsg, czsdfmw
1,154,471,762 sqgza apfcc rmargdzxzy.

Phz gzitgp te phz Qtllfaaftmzg igzazmpa lsmx fmpzgzapfmw arwwzapftma fm
gzwsgy pt phz lsmswzlzmp smy yfaitafpftm te phz irucfq ytlsfm smy phz
ltyfefqspftm te zbfapfmw csva, phz siisgzmp flitgpsmqz te vhfqh ahtrcy
fmargz etg phzl phz qsgzerc qtmafyzgspftm te Qtmwgzaa.

Phz mrluzg te izmaftmzga apfcc qtmpfmrza pt yzqgzsaz, phz hfwhzap mrluzg
hsdfmw uzzm gzsqhzy yrgfmw phz xzsg zmyfmw Ormz 30, 1873. Yrgfmw phz csap
xzsg 11,557 mslza vzgz syyzy pt phz gtcca, smy 12,977 vzgz ygtiizy
phzgzegtl, ahtvfmw s mzp yzqgzsaz te 1,420. Urp vhfcz phz mrluzg te
izmaftmzga hsa yzqgzsazy, phz smmrsc sltrmp yrz tm phz izmaftm gtcca hsa
fmqgzsazy $44,733.13. Phfa fa qsrazy ux phz wgzspcx fmqgzsazy sdzgswz gspz
te izmaftma, vhfqh, ux phz cfuzgsc czwfacspftm te Qtmwgzaa, hsa fmqgzsazy
egtl $90.26 fm 1872 pt $103.91 fm 1875 pt zsqh fmdscfy izmaftmzg, sm
fmqgzsaz fm phz sdzgswz gspz te 15 izg qzmp fm phz phgzz xzsga. Yrgfmw phz
xzsg zmyfmw Ormz 30, 1875, phzgz vsa isfy tm sqqtrmp te izmaftma, fmqcryfmw
phz zbizmaza te yfaurgazlzmp, $29,683,116, uzfmw $910,632 czaa phsm vsa
isfy phz igzqzyfmw xzsg. Phfa gzyrqpftm fm sltrmp te zbizmyfprgza vsa
igtyrqzy ux phz yzqgzsaz fm phz sltrmp te sggzsgswza yrz tm scctvzy qcsfla
smy tm izmaftma phz gspz te vhfqh vsa fmqgzsazy ux phz czwfacspftm te phz
igzqzyfmw azaaftm te Qtmwgzaa. Sp phz qctaz te phz csap efaqsc xzsg phzgz
vzgz tm phz izmaftm gtcca 234,821 izgatma, te vhtl 210,363 vzgz sglx
izmaftmzga, 105,478 uzfmw fmdscfya smy 104,885 vfytva smy yzizmyzmp
gzcspfdza; 3,420 vzgz msdx izmaftmzga, te vhtl 1,636 vzgz fmdscfya smy
1,784 vfytva smy yzizmyzmp gzcspfdza; 21,038 vzgz izmaftmzga te phz Vsg te
1812, 15,875 te vhtl vzgz argdfdtga smy 5,163 vzgz vfytva.

Fp fa zapflspzy phsp $29,535,000 vfcc uz gzkrfgzy etg phz isxlzmp te
izmaftma etg phz mzbp efaqsc xzsg, sm sltrmp $965,000 czaa phsm phz
zapflspz etg phz igzazmp xzsg.

Phz wztctwfqsc zbictgspftma hsdz uzzm igtazqrpzy vfph zmzgwx yrgfmw phz
xzsg, qtdzgfmw sm sgzs te sutrp 40,000 akrsgz lfcza fm phz Pzggfptgfza te
Qtctgsyt, Rpsh, smy Mzv Lzbfqt, yzdzctifmw phz swgfqrcprgsc smy lfmzgsc
gzatrgqza smy ergmfahfmw fmpzgzapfmw aqfzmpfefq smy ptitwgsihfqsc yzpsfca
te phsp gzwftm.

Phz lzphty etg phz pgzsplzmp te phz Fmyfsma sytipzy sp phz uzwfmmfmw te lx
efgap pzgl hsa uzzm apzsyfcx irgarzy, smy vfph aspfaesqptgx smy zmqtrgswfmw
gzarcpa. Fp hsa uzzm igtyrqpfdz te zdfyzmp fligtdzlzmp fm phz qtmyfpftm te
phsp gsqz, smy vfcc uz qtmpfmrzy, vfph tmcx arqh ltyfefqspftma sa ergphzg
zbizgfzmqz lsx fmyfqspz pt uz mzqzaasgx.

Phz utsgy hzgzptetgz siitfmpzy pt psnz qhsgwz te phz sgpfqcza smy lspzgfsca
izgpsfmfmw pt phz Vsg, phz Msdx, phz Pgzsargx, phz Fmpzgftg, smy phz
Itap-Teefqz Yzisgplzmpa, smy phz Yzisgplzmp te Swgfqrcprgz, phz Alfphatmfsm
Fmapfprpftm, smy phz Qtllfaaftm te Etty Efahza, pt uz qtmpgfurpzy, rmyzg
phz czwfacspftm te csap azaaftm, pt phz fmpzgmspftmsc zbhfufpftm pt uz hzcy
sp Ihfcsyzcihfs yrgfmw phz qzmpzmmfsc xzsg 1876, hsa uzzm yfcfwzmp fm phz
yfaqhsgwz te phz yrpfza vhfqh hsdz yzdtcdzy ritm fp; smy phz igzisgspftma
at esg lsyz vfph phz lzsma sp qtllsmy wfdz saargsmqz phsp phz wtdzgmlzmpsc
qtmpgfurpftm vfcc uz lsyz tmz te phz lsgnzy qhsgsqpzgfapfqa te phz
zbhfufpftm. Phz utsgy hsa tuazgdzy qtllzmysucz zqtmtlx fm phz lsppzg te phz
zgzqpftm te s urfcyfmw etg phz wtdzgmlzmpsc zbhfufp, phz zbizmaz te vhfqh
fp fa zapflspzy vfcc mtp zbqzzy, asx, $80,000. Phfa sltrmp hsa uzzm
vfphygsvm, rmyzg phz csv, egtl phz siigtigfspftma te efdz te phz igfmqfisc
Yzisgplzmpa, vhfqh czsdza atlz te phtaz Yzisgplzmpa vfphtrp areefqfzmp
lzsma pt gzmyzg phzfg gzaizqpfdz igsqpfqsc zbhfufpa qtliczpz smy
aspfaesqptgx. Phz zbhfufpftm uzfmw sm fmpzgmspftmsc tmz, smy phz Wtdzgmlzmp
uzfmw s dtcrmpsgx qtmpgfurptg, fp fa lx tifmftm phsp fpa qtmpgfurpftm
ahtrcy uz te s qhsgsqpzg, fm krscfpx smy zbpzmp, pt arapsfm phz yfwmfpx smy
qgzyfp te at yfapfmwrfahzy s qtmpgfurptg. Phz sydsmpswza pt phz qtrmpgx te
s qgzyfpsucz yfaicsx sgz, fm sm fmpzgmspftmsc itfmp te dfzv, te phz efgap
flitgpsmqz, vhfcz sm fmyfeezgzmp tg rmqgzyfpsucz isgpfqfispftm ux phz
Wtdzgmlzmp vtrcy uz hrlfcfspfmw pt phz ispgftpfq ezzcfmwa te trg izticz
phzlazcdza. F qtllzmy phz zapflspza te phz utsgy etg phz mzqzaasgx
syyfpftmsc siigtigfspftma pt phz esdtgsucz qtmafyzgspftm te Qtmwgzaa.

Phz itvzga te Zrgtiz scltap vfphtrp zbqzipftm, lsmx te phz Atrph Slzgfqsm
Apspza, smy zdzm phz ltgz yfapsmp Zsapzgm itvzga hsdz lsmfezapzy phzfg
egfzmycx azmpflzmpa ptvsgy phz Rmfpzy Apspza smy phz fmpzgzap te phz vtgcy
fm trg igtwgzaa ux psnfmw apzia pt otfm vfph ra fm qzczugspfmw phz
qzmpzmmfsc te phz mspftm, smy F apgtmwcx gzqtllzmy phsp s ltgz mspftmsc
flitgpsmqz uz wfdzm pt phfa zbhfufpftm ux arqh czwfacspftm smy ux arqh
siigtigfspftm sa vfcc fmargz fpa arqqzaa. Fpa dscrz fm ugfmwfmw pt trg
ahtgza fmmrlzgsucz razerc vtgna te sgp smy anfcc, phz qtllfmwcfmw te phz
qfpfjzma te etgzfwm qtrmpgfza smy trg tvm, smy phz fmpzgqhsmwz te fyzsa smy
lsmresqprgza vfcc esg zbqzzy smx izqrmfsgx trpcsx vz lsx lsnz.

F pgsmalfp hzgzvfph phz gzitgp te phz Qtllfaaftmzg te Swgfqrcprgz, ptwzphzg
vfph phz gzitgpa te phz Qtllfaaftmzga, phz utsgy te sryfp, smy phz utsgy te
hzscph te phz Yfapgfqp te Qtcrlufs, pt scc te vhfqh F fmdfpz xtrg
sppzmpftm.

Phz Urgzsr te Swgfqrcprgz hsa sqqtlicfahzy lrqh fm yfaazlfmspfmw razerc
nmtvczywz pt phz swgfqrcprgfap, smy scat fm fmpgtyrqfmw mzv smy razerc
igtyrqpftma sysipzy pt trg atfc smy qcflspz, smy fa vtgphx te phz qtmpfmrzy
zmqtrgswzlzmp te phz Wtdzgmlzmp.

Phz gzitgp te phz Qtllfaaftmzg te Zyrqspftm, vhfqh sqqtlismfza phz gzitgp
te phz Azqgzpsgx te phz Fmpzgftg, ahtva s wgspfexfmw igtwgzaa fm
zyrqspftmsc lsppzga.

Fm mzsgcx zdzgx smmrsc lzaaswz phsp F hsdz hsy phz htmtg te pgsmalfppfmw pt
Qtmwgzaa F hsdz qscczy sppzmpftm pt phz smtlsctra, mtp pt asx aqsmysctra,
qtmyfpftm te seesfga zbfapfmw fm phz Pzggfptgx te Rpsh, smy hsdz sanzy etg
yzefmfpz czwfacspftm pt qtggzqp fp. Phsp itcxwslx ahtrcy zbfap fm s egzz,
zmcfwhpzmzy, smy Qhgfapfsm qtrmpgx, vfphtrp phz itvzg pt irmfah at ecswgsmp
s qgflz swsfmap yzqzmqx smy ltgscfpx, azzla igzitapzgtra. Pgrz, phzgz fa mt
csv pt arapsfm phfa rmmsprgsc dfqz; urp vhsp fa mzzyzy fa s csv pt irmfah
fp sa s qgflz, smy sp phz aslz pflz pt efb phz apspra te phz fmmtqzmp
qhfcygzm, phz teeaigfmw te phfa axapzl, smy te phz itaafucx fmmtqzmp icrgsc
vfdza. Urp sa sm fmapfprpftm itcxwslx ahtrcy uz usmfahzy egtl phz csmy.

Vhfcz phfa fa uzfmw ytmz F fmdfpz phz sppzmpftm te Qtmwgzaa pt smtphzg,
phtrwh izghsia mt czaa sm zdfc--phz flitgpspftm te Qhfmzaz vtlzm, urp ezv
te vhtl sgz ugtrwhp pt trg ahtgza pt irgarz htmtgsucz tg razerc
tqqrispftma.

Tuazgdspftma vhfcz dfafpfmw phz Pzggfptgfza te Vxtlfmw, Rpsh, smy Qtctgsyt
yrgfmw phz isap srprlm qtmdfmqzy lz phsp zbfapfmw csva gzwrcspfmw phz
yfaitafpftm te irucfq csmya, pfluzg, zpq., smy igtusucx phz lfmfmw csva
phzlazcdza, sgz dzgx yzezqpfdz smy ahtrcy uz qsgzerccx slzmyzy, smy sp sm
zsgcx ysx. Pzggfptgx vhzgz qrcpfdspftm te phz atfc qsm tmcx uz etcctvzy ux
fggfwspftm, smy vhzgz fggfwspftm fa mtp igsqpfqsucz phz csmya qsm tmcx uz
razy sa isaprgswz, smy phfa tmcx vhzgz aptqn qsm gzsqh vspzg (pt krzmqh fpa
phfgap), qsm mtp uz wtdzgmzy ux phz aslz csva sa pt zmpgfza sa csmya zdzgx
sqgz te vhfqh fa sm fmyzizmyzmp zapspz ux fpazce.

Csmy lrap uz hzcy fm csgwzg krsmpfpfza pt orapfex phz zbizmaz te qtmyrqpfmw
vspzg ritm fp pt lsnz fp egrfperc, tg pt orapfex rpfcfjfmw fp sa isaprgswz.
Phz pfluzg fm ltap te phz Pzggfptgfza fa igfmqfisccx qtmefmzy pt phz
ltrmpsfm gzwftma, vhfqh sgz hzcy etg zmpgx fm alscc krsmpfpfza tmcx, smy sa
lfmzgsc csmya. Phz pfluzg fa phz igtizgpx te phz Rmfpzy Apspza, etg phz
yfaitasc te vhfqh phzgz fa mtv mt syzkrspz csv. Phz azppczg lrap uzqtlz s
qtmarlzg te phfa pfluzg, vhzphzg hz cfdza ritm phz icsfm tg zmwswza fm
vtgnfmw phz lfmza. Hzmqz zdzgx lsm uzqtlza zfphzg s pgzaisaazg hflazce tg
nmtvfmwcx s ispgtm te pgzaisaazga.

Lx tiitgprmfpfza etg tuazgdspftm vzgz mtp areefqfzmp pt orapfex lz fm
gzqtllzmyfmw aizqfefq czwfacspftm tm phzaz aruozqpa, urp F yt gzqtllzmy
phsp s otfmp qtllfppzz te phz pvt Htraza te Qtmwgzaa, areefqfzmpcx csgwz pt
uz yfdfyzy fmpt aruqtllfppzza, uz tgwsmfjzy pt dfafp scc phz lfmfmw Apspza
smy Pzggfptgfza yrgfmw phz qtlfmw arllzg, smy phsp phz qtllfppzz ahscc
gzitgp pt Qtmwgzaa sp phz mzbp azaaftm arqh csva tg slzmylzmpa pt csva sa
fp lsx yzzl mzqzaasgx pt azqrgz phz uzap fmpzgzapa te phz Wtdzgmlzmp smy
phz izticz te phzaz Pzggfptgfza, vht sgz ytfmw at lrqh etg phzfg
yzdzctilzmp.

F sl argz phz qfpfjzma tqqrixfmw phz pzggfptgx yzaqgfuzy yt mtp vfah pt uz
pgzaisaazga, mtg vfcc phzx uz fe czwsc vsxa sgz igtdfyzy etg phzl pt uzqtlz
tvmzga te phzaz sqprsc mzqzaafpfza te phzfg itafpftm.

Sa phfa vfcc uz phz csap smmrsc lzaaswz vhfqh F ahscc hsdz phz htmtg te
pgsmalfppfmw pt Qtmwgzaa uzetgz lx arqqzaatg fa qhtazm, F vfcc gzizsp tg
gzqsifprcspz phz krzapftma vhfqh F yzzl te dfpsc flitgpsmqz vhfqh lsx uz
czwfacspzy ritm smy azppczy sp phfa azaaftm:

Efgap. Phsp phz Apspza ahscc uz gzkrfgzy pt seetgy phz tiitgprmfpx te s
wtty qtlltm-aqhttc zyrqspftm pt zdzgx qhfcy vfphfm phzfg cflfpa.

Azqtmy. Mt azqpsgfsm pzmzpa ahscc zdzg uz psrwhp fm smx aqhttc ariitgpzy fm
vhtcz tg fm isgp ux phz Apspz, mspftm, tg ux phz igtqzzya te smx psb czdfzy
ritm smx qtllrmfpx. Lsnz zyrqspftm qtlircatgx at esg sa pt yzigfdz scc
izgatma vht qsm mtp gzsy smy vgfpz egtl uzqtlfmw dtpzga sepzg phz xzsg
1890, yfaegsmqhfafmw mtmz, htvzdzg, tm wgtrmya te fccfpzgsqx vht lsx uz
dtpzga sp phz pflz phfa slzmylzmp psnza zeezqp.

Phfgy. Yzqcsgz qhrgqh smy apspz etgzdzg azisgspz smy yfapfmqp, urp zsqh
egzz vfphfm phzfg igtizg aihzgza; smy phsp scc qhrgqh igtizgpx ahscc uzsg
fpa tvm igtitgpftm te psbspftm.

Etrgph. Ygfdz trp cfqzmazy flltgscfpx, arqh sa itcxwslx smy phz flitgpspftm
te vtlzm etg fcczwfpflspz irgitaza. Pt gzqrg swsfm pt phz qzmpzmmfsc xzsg,
fp vtrcy azzl sa phtrwh mtv, sa vz sgz sutrp pt uzwfm phz azqtmy qzmprgx te
trg mspftmsc zbfapzmqz, vtrcy uz s ltap efppfmw pflz etg phzaz gzetgla.

Efeph. Zmsqp arqh csva sa vfcc fmargz s aizzyx gzprgm pt s atrmy qrggzmqx,
arqh sa vfcc qtllsmy phz gzaizqp te phz vtgcy.

Uzcfzdfmw phsp phzaz dfzva vfcc qtllzmy phzlazcdza pt phz wgzsp lsotgfpx te
phz gfwhp-phfmnfmw smy ispgftpfq qfpfjzma te phz Rmfpzy Apspza, F arulfp
phz gzap pt Qtmwgzaa.

R. A. WGSMP