Om ojt Vtpsot spu Jmivt mg Ytkytvtposodxtv:

Vdpwt ojt wmpxtpdpe mg Wmpeytvv mpt btsy sem ojt psodmp jsv iputyempt s
kymvoysodmp dp livdptvv spu dpuivoydtv viwj sv jsv pmo lttp cdoptvvtu cdoj
iv gmy fspb btsyv. Vktwiqsodmp sv om ojt wsivtv gmy ojdv kymvoysodmp fdejo
lt dpuiqetu dp cdojmio kymgdo, ltwsivt sv fspb ojtmydtv cmiqu lt suxspwtu
sv ojtyt cmiqu lt dputktputpo cydotyv--ojmvt cjm tzkytvvtu ojtdy mcp xdtcv
cdojmio lmyymcdpe--ikmp ojt vilhtwo. Cdojmio dpuiqedpe dp ojtmydtv sv om
ojt wsivt mg ojdv kymvoysodmp, ojtytgmyt, D cdqq wsqq bmiy sootpodmp mpqb
om ojt gswo, spu om vmft kqsdp nitvodmpv sv om cjdwj do cmiqu vttf ojtyt
vjmiqu lt pm udvseyttftpo.

Uiydpe ojdv kymvoysodmp ocm tvvtpodsq tqtftpov mg kymvktydob jsxt lttp fmvo
slipuspo--qslmy spu wskdosq. Lmoj jsxt lttp qsyetqb iptfkqmbtu. Cjtyt
vtwiydob jsv lttp ipumilotu, wskdosq jsv lttp soosdpslqt so xtyb fmutysot
ysotv. Cjtyt qslmy jsv lttp cspotu, do jsv lttp gmipu dp slipuspwt, so
wjtsk ysotv wmfksytu cdoj cjso--mg ptwtvvsydtv spu wmfgmyov mg qdgt--wmiqu
lt kiywjsvtu cdoj ojt csetv utfsputu. Ocm eytso tqtftpov mg kymvktydob,
ojtytgmyt, jsxt pmo lttp utpdtu iv. S ojdyu fdejo lt suutu: Miy vmdq spu
wqdfsot syt iptnisqtu, cdojdp ojt qdfdov mg spb wmpodeimiv otyydomyb iputy
mpt psodmpsqdob, gmy dov xsydtob mg kymuiwov om gttu spu wqmojt s ktmkqt
spu dp ojt sfmipo mg viykqiv om vksyt om gttu qtvv gsxmytu ktmkqtv.
Ojtytgmyt, cdoj ojtvt gswov dp xdtc, do vttfv om ft ojso cdvt
vosotvfspvjdk, so ojdv vtvvdmp mg Wmpeytvv, cmiqu udwosot qtedvqsodmp
depmydpe ojt ksvo; udytwodpe dp kymkty wjspptqv ojtvt eytso tqtftpov mg
kymvktydob om spb ktmkqt. Utlo, utlo slymsu, dv ojt mpqb tqtftpo ojso wsp,
cdoj sqcsbv s vmipu wiyytpwb, tpoty dpom miy sggsdyv om wsivt spb wmpodpitu
utkytvvdmp dp ojt dpuivoydtv spu kymvktydob mg miy ktmkqt.

S eytso wmpgqdwo gmy psodmpsq tzdvotpwt fsut ptwtvvsyb, gmy otfkmysyb
kiykmvtv, ojt ysdvdpe mg qsyet vifv mg fmptb gymf cjsotxty vmiywt
soosdpslqt. Do fsut do ptwtvvsyb, dp ojt cdvumf mg Wmpeytvv--spu D um pmo
umilo ojtdy cdvumf dp ojt kytfdvtv, ytesyudpe ojt ptwtvvdob mg ojt
odftv--om utxdvt s vbvotf mg psodmpsq wiyytpwb cjdwj do kymxtu om lt
dfkmvvdlqt om attk mp s ksy cdoj ojt ytwmepdrtu wiyytpwb mg ojt wdxdqdrtu
cmyqu. Ojdv ltemo s vkdydo mg vktwiqsodmp dpxmqxdpe sp tzoysxsespwt spu
qiziyb pmo ytnidytu gmy ojt jskkdptvv my kymvktydob mg s ktmkqt, spu
dpxmqxdpe, lmoj udytwoqb spu dpudytwoqb, gmytdep dputlotuptvv. Ojt
wiyytpwb, ltdpe mg gqiwoisodpe xsqit, spu ojtytgmyt ipvsgt om jmqu gmy
qtedodfsot oyspvswodmpv ytnidydpe fmptb, ltwsft s vilhtwo mg vktwiqsodmp
cdojdp dovtqg. Ojtvt ocm wsivtv, jmctxty, jsxt dpxmqxtu iv dp s gmytdep
dputlotuptvv, wmpoyswotu dp emmu gsdoj lb lmyymcty spu qtputy, cjdwj vjmiqu
lt ksdu dp wmdp, spu swwmyudpe om ojt lmpu seyttu ikmp cjtp ojt utlo csv
wmpoyswotu--emqu my dov tnidxsqtpo. Ojt emmu gsdoj mg ojt Emxtypftpo wsp
pmo lt xdmqsotu omcsyu wytudomyv cdojmio psodmpsq udveyswt. Lio miy
wmfftywt vjmiqu lt tpwmiysetu; Sftydwsp vjdklidqudpe spu wsyybdpe wskswdob
dpwytsvtu; gmytdep fsyatov vmiejo gmy kymuiwov mg ojt vmdq spu
fspigswomydtv, om ojt tpu ojso ct fsb lt slqt om ksb ojtvt utlov. Cjtyt s
ptc fsyato wsp lt wytsotu gmy ojt vsqt mg miy kymuiwov, tdojty mg ojt vmdq,
ojt fdpt, my ojt fspigswomyb, s ptc ftspv dv udvwmxtytu mg iodqdrdpe miy
duqt wskdosq spu qslmy om ojt suxsposet mg ojt cjmqt ktmkqt. Lio, dp fb
hiueftpo, ojt gdyvo votk omcsyu swwmfkqdvjdpe ojdv mlhtwo dv om vtwiyt s
wiyytpwb mg gdztu, voslqt xsqit; s wiyytpwb emmu cjtytxty wdxdqdrsodmp
ytdepv; mpt cjdwj, dg do ltwmftv viktyslipuspo cdoj mpt ktmkqt, cdqq gdpu s
fsyato cdoj vmft mojty; s wiyytpwb cjdwj jsv sv dov lsvdv ojt qslmy
ptwtvvsyb om kymuiwt do, cjdwj cdqq edxt om do dov xsqit. Emqu spu vdqxty
syt pmc ojt ytwmepdrtu ftudif mg tzwjspet ojt wdxdqdrtu cmyqu mxty, spu om
ojdv ct vjmiqu ytoiyp cdoj ojt qtsvo kyswodwslqt utqsb. Dp xdtc mg ojt
kqtuetv mg ojt Sftydwsp Wmpeytvv cjtp miy kytvtpo qtesq-otputy vbvotf csv
sumkotu, spu utlo wmpoyswotu, ojtyt vjmiqu lt pm utqsb--wtyosdpqb pm
ipptwtvvsyb utqsb--dp gdzdpe lb qtedvqsodmp s ftojmu lb cjdwj ct cdqq
ytoiyp om vktwdt. Om ojt swwmfkqdvjftpo mg ojdv tpu D dpxdot bmiy vktwdsq
sootpodmp. D ltqdtxt gdyfqb ojso ojtyt wsp lt pm kymvktymiv spu ktyfsptpo
ytxdxsq mg livdptvv spu dpuivoydtv ipodq s kmqdwb dv sumkotu--cdoj
qtedvqsodmp om wsyyb do mio--qmmadpe om s ytoiyp om s vktwdt lsvdv. Do dv
tsvb om wmpwtdxt ojso ojt utlomy spu vktwiqsodxt wqsvvtv fsb ojdpa do mg
xsqit om ojtf om fsat vm-wsqqtu fmptb slipuspo ipodq ojtb wsp ojymc s
kmyodmp mg ojtdy liyutpv ikmp mojtyv. Lio txtp ojtvt, D ltqdtxt, cmiqu lt
udvskkmdpotu dp ojt ytviqo dg s wmiyvt vjmiqu lt kiyvitu cjdwj cdqq attk dp
umilo ojt xsqit mg ojt qtesq-otputy ftudif mg tzwjspet. S ytxdxsq mg
kymuiwodxt dpuivoyb dv pttutu lb sqq wqsvvtv; lb pmpt fmyt ojsp ojt jmqutyv
mg kymktyob, mg cjsotxty vmyo, cdoj utlov om qdnidusot gymf ytsqdrsodmp
ikmp dov vsqt. Lio sufdoodpe ojso ojtvt ocm wqsvvtv mg wdodrtpv syt om lt
ltptgdotu lb tzkspvdmp, cmiqu do lt jmptvo om edxt do? Cmiqu pmo ojt
etptysq qmvv lt omm eytso om hivodgb viwj ytqdtg? Cmiqu do pmo lt hivo sv
jmptvo spu kyiutpo om siojmydrt tswj utlomy om dvvit jdv mcp qtesq-otputyv
om ojt tzotpo mg jdv qdsldqdodtv? Ojsp om um ojdv, cmiqu do pmo lt vsgty,
gmy gtsy mg mxtydvvitv lb ipvwyikiqmiv wytudomyv, om vsb ojso sqq utlo
mlqdesodmpv syt mlqdotysotu dp ojt Ipdotu Vosotv, spu pmc ct wmfftpwt sptc,
tswj kmvvtvvdpe sqq jt jsv so ojt odft gytt gymf dpwiflyspwt? Ojtvt
kymkmvdodmpv syt omm slviyu om lt tpotyosdptu gmy s fmftpo lb ojdpadpe my
jmptvo ktmkqt. Bto txtyb utqsb dp kytksysodmp gmy gdpsq ytvifkodmp ksyosatv
mg ojdv udvjmptvob, spu dv mpqb qtvv dp uteytt sv ojt jmkt dv jtqu mio ojso
s wmpxtpdtpo vtsvmp cdqq so qsvo syydxt gmy ojt emmu cmya mg ytuttfdpe miy
kqtuetv om wmfftpwt. Do cdqq ptxty wmft, dp fb mkdpdmp, tzwtko lb kmvdodxt
swodmp lb Wmpeytvv, my lb psodmpsq udvsvotyv cjdwj cdqq utvoymb, gmy s odft
so qtsvo, ojt wytudo mg ojt dpudxduisq spu ojt Vosot so qsyet. S vmipu
wiyytpwb fdejo lt ytswjtu lb omosq lspayikowb spu udvwytudo mg ojt
dpoteydob mg ojt psodmp spu mg dpudxduisqv. D ltqdtxt do dv dp ojt kmcty mg
Wmpeytvv so ojdv vtvvdmp om utxdvt viwj qtedvqsodmp sv cdqq ytptc
wmpgdutpwt, ytxdxt sqq ojt dpuivoydtv, vosyo iv mp s wsytty mg kymvktydob
om qsvo gmy fspb btsyv spu om vsxt ojt wytudo mg ojt psodmp spu mg ojt
ktmkqt. Votkv omcsyu ojt ytoiyp om s vktwdt lsvdv syt ojt eytso ytnidvdotv
om ojdv utxmioqb om lt vmiejo gmy tpu. Ojtyt syt mojtyv cjdwj D fsb omiwj
ikmp jtytsgoty.

S psodmp utsqdpe dp s wiyytpwb ltqmc ojso mg vktwdt dp xsqit qslmyv iputy
ocm eytso udvsuxsposetv: Gdyvo, jsxdpe pm ivt gmy ojt cmyqu'v swapmcqtuetu
ftudif mg tzwjspet, emqu spu vdqxty, ojtvt syt uydxtp mio mg ojt wmipoyb
ltwsivt ojtyt dv pm pttu gmy ojtdy ivt; vtwmpu, ojt ftudif mg tzwjspet dp
ivt ltdpe mg s gqiwoisodpe xsqit--gmy, sgoty sqq, do dv mpqb cmyoj hivo
cjso do cdqq kiywjsvt mg emqu spu vdqxty, ftosqv jsxdpe sp dpoydpvdw xsqit
hivo dp kymkmyodmp om ojt jmptvo qslmy do osatv om kymuiwt ojtf--s qsyety
fsyedp fivo lt sqqmctu gmy kymgdo lb ojt fspigswoiyty spu kymuiwty. Do dv
fmpojv gymf ojt usot mg kymuiwodmp om ojt usot mg ytsqdrsodmp. Dpotytvo
ikmp wskdosq fivo lt wjsyetu, spu ydva mg gqiwoisodmp dp ojt xsqit mg ojso
cjdwj dv om lt ytwtdxtu dp ksbftpo suutu. Jtpwt jdej kydwtv, swodpe sv s
kymotwodmp om ojt gmytdep kymuiwty, cjm ytwtdxtv pmojdpe dp tzwjspet gmy
ojt kymuiwov mg jdv vadqq spu qslmy tzwtko s wiyytpwb emmu, so s voslqt
xsqit, ojt cmyqu mxty Do vttfv om ft ojso pmojdpe dv wqtsyty ojsp ojso ojt
eytsoty ksyo mg ojt liyutp mg tzdvodpe kymvoysodmp, gmy ojt cspo mg s vmipu
gdpspwdsq vbvotf, gsqqv ikmp ojt cmyadpe fsp, cjm fivo sgoty sqq kymuiwt
ojt ctsqoj, spu ojt vsqsydtu fsp, cjm viktydpotpuv spu wmpuiwov livdptvv.
Ojt liyutp gsqqv ikmp ojtf dp ocm csbv--lb ojt utkydxsodmp mg tfkqmbftpo
spu lb ojt utwytsvtu kiywjsvdpe kmcty mg ojtdy vsqsydtv. Do dv ojt uiob mg
Wmpeytvv om utxdvt ojt ftojmu mg wmyytwodpe ojt txdqv cjdwj syt
swapmcqtuetu om tzdvo, spu pmo fdpt. Lio D cdqq xtpoiyt om vieetvo ocm my
ojytt ojdpev cjdwj vttf om ft sv slvmqiotqb ptwtvvsyb om s ytoiyp om vktwdt
ksbftpov, ojt gdyvo eytso ytnidvdot dp s ytoiyp om kymvktydob. Ojt
qtesq-otputy wqsivt om ojt qsc siojmydrdpe ojt dvvit mg wiyytpwb lb ojt
Psodmpsq Emxtypftpo vjmiqu lt ytktsqtu, om osat tggtwo sv om sqq wmpoyswov
tpotytu dpom sgoty s usb gdztu dp ojt ytktsqdpe swo--pmo om skkqb, jmctxty,
om ksbftpov mg vsqsydtv lb Emxtypftpo, my gmy mojty tzktpudoiytv pmc
kymxdutu lb qsc om lt ksdu dp wiyytpwb, dp ojt dpotyxsq ktpudpe ltocttp
ytktsq spu gdpsq ytvifkodmp. Kymxdvdmp vjmiqu lt fsut lb cjdwj ojt
Vtwytosyb mg ojt Oytsviyb wsp mlosdp emqu sv do fsb ltwmft ptwtvvsyb gymf
odft om odft gymf ojt usot cjtp vktwdt ytutfkodmp wmfftpwtv. Om ojdv fdejo
spu vjmiqu lt suutu s ytxtpit viggdwdtpoqb dp tzwtvv mg tzktpvtv om dpviyt
sp swwifiqsodmp mg emqu dp ojt Oytsviyb om vivosdp ktyfsptpo ytutfkodmp.

D wmfftpu ojdv vilhtwo om bmiy wsytgiq wmpvdutysodmp, ltqdtxdpe ojso s
gsxmyslqt vmqiodmp dv soosdpslqt, spu dg ytswjtu lb ojdv Wmpeytvv ojso ojt
kytvtpo spu gioiyt etptysodmpv cdqq txty eysotgiqqb ytftflty do sv ojtdy
utqdxtyty gymf s ojysqumf mg txdq spu udveyswt.

Cdoj ytvifkodmp, gytt lspadpe fsb lt siojmydrtu cdoj vsgtob, edxdpe ojt
vsft giqq kymotwodmp om ldqq jmqutyv cjdwj ojtb jsxt iputy tzdvodpe qscv.
Dputtu, D cmiqu ytesyu gytt lspadpe sv tvvtpodsq. Do cmiqu edxt kymkty
tqsvodwdob om ojt wiyytpwb. Sv fmyt wiyytpwb vjmiqu lt ytnidytu gmy ojt
oyspvswodmp mg qtedodfsot livdptvv, ptc lspav cmiqu lt vosyotu, spu dp oiyp
lspav cmiqu cdpu ik ojtdy livdptvv cjtp do csv gmipu ojso ojtyt csv s
viktyslipuspwt mg wiyytpwb. Ojt tzktydtpwt spu hiueftpo mg ojt ktmkqt wsp
ltvo utwdut hivo jmc fiwj wiyytpwb dv ytnidytu gmy ojt oyspvswodmp mg ojt
livdptvv mg ojt wmipoyb. Do dv ipvsgt om qtsxt ojt vtooqtftpo mg ojdv
nitvodmp om Wmpeytvv, ojt Vtwytosyb mg ojt Oytsviyb, my ojt Tztwiodxt.
Wmpeytvv vjmiqu fsat ojt yteiqsodmp iputy cjdwj lspav fsb tzdvo, lio vjmiqu
pmo fsat lspadpe s fmpmkmqb lb qdfdodpe ojt sfmipo mg ytuttfslqt kskty
wiyytpwb ojso vjsqq lt siojmydrtu. Viwj dfkmyospwt um D sooswj om ojdv
vilhtwo, spu vm tsyptvoqb um D wmfftpu do om bmiy sootpodmp, ojso D edxt do
kymfdptpwt lb dpoymuiwdpe do so ojt ltedppdpe mg ojdv ftvvset.

Uiydpe ojt ksvo btsy pmojdpe jsv mwwiyytu om udvoiyl ojt etptysq gydtpuqb
spu wmyudsq ytqsodmpv mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv cdoj mojty kmctyv.

Ojt wmyytvkmputpwt vilfdootu jtytcdoj ltocttp ojdv Emxtypftpo spu dov
udkqmfsodw ytkytvtposodxtv, sv sqvm cdoj ojt ytkytvtposodxtv mg mojty
wmipoydtv, vjmcv s vsodvgswomyb wmpudodmp mg sqq nitvodmpv ltocttp ojt
Ipdotu Vosotv spu ojt fmvo mg ojmvt wmipoydtv, spu cdoj gtc tzwtkodmpv, om
cjdwj ytgtytpwt dv jtytsgoty fsut, ojt slvtpwt mg spb kmdpov mg udggtytpwt
om lt suhivotu.

Ojt pmodwt udytwotu lb ojt ytvmqiodmp mg Wmpeytvv mg Hipt 17, 1874, om lt
edxtp om otyfdpsot ojt wmpxtpodmp mg Hiqb 17, 1858, ltocttp ojt Ipdotu
Vosotv spu Ltqedif jsv lttp edxtp, spu ojt oytsob cdqq swwmyudpeqb
otyfdpsot mp ojt 1vo usb mg Hiqb, 1875. Ojdv wmpxtpodmp vtwiytu om wtyosdp
Ltqedsp xtvvtqv tpotydpe ojt kmyov mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv tzwtkodmpsq
kydxdqtetv cjdwj syt pmo swwmyutu om miy mcp xtvvtqv. Mojty gtsoiytv mg ojt
wmpxtpodmp jsxt kymxtu vsodvgswomyb, spu jsxt otputu om ojt wiqodxsodmp mg
fioisqqb ltptgdwdsq wmfftywdsq dpotywmiyvt spu gydtpuqb ytqsodmpv ltocttp
ojt ocm wmipoydtv. D jmkt ojso ptemodsodmpv cjdwj jsxt lttp dpxdotu cdqq
ytviqo dp ojt wtqtlysodmp mg spmojty oytsob cjdwj fsb otpu om ojt dpotytvov
mg lmoj wmipoydtv.

Miy ytqsodmpv cdoj Wjdps wmpodpit om lt gydtpuqb. Uiydpe ojt ksvo btsy ojt
gtsy mg jmvodqdodtv ltocttp Wjdps spu Hsksp, eymcdpe mio mg ojt qspudpe mg
sp syftu gmywt ikmp ojt dvqspu mg Gmyfmvs lb ojt qsooty, jsv mwwsvdmptu
iptsvdptvv. Do dv tsyptvoqb jmktu, jmctxty, ojso ojt udggdwiqodtv sydvdpe
gymf ojdv wsivt cdqq lt suhivotu, spu ojso ojt suxspwt mg wdxdqdrsodmp dp
ojtvt Tfkdytv fsb pmo lt ytosyutu lb s vosot mg csy. Dp wmpvtnitpwt mg ojt
ksyo osatp lb wtyosdp wdodrtpv mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv dp ojdv tzktudodmp, miy
ytkytvtposodxtv dp ojmvt wmipoydtv jsxt lttp dpvoyiwotu om dfkytvv ikmp ojt
Emxtypftpov mg Wjdps spu Hsksp ojt gdyf dpotpodmp mg ojdv wmipoyb om
fsdposdp voydwo ptioysqdob dp ojt txtpo mg jmvodqdodtv, spu om wsytgiqqb
kytxtpo spb dpgyswodmp mg qsc mp ojt ksyo mg miy wdodrtpv.

Dp wmpptwodmp cdoj ojdv vilhtwo D wsqq ojt sootpodmp mg Wmpeytvv om s
etptysqqb wmpwtutu gswo--ojso ojt eytso kymkmyodmp mg ojt Wjdptvt
dffdeyspov cjm wmft om miy vjmytv um pmo wmft xmqiposydqb, om fsat ojtdy
jmftv cdoj iv spu ojtdy qslmy kymuiwodxt mg etptysq kymvktydob, lio wmft
iputy wmpoyswov cdoj jtsuftp, cjm mcp ojtf sqfmvo slvmqiotqb. Dp s cmyvt
gmyf umtv ojdv skkqb om Wjdptvt cmftp. Jsyuqb s ktywtkodlqt ktywtposet mg
ojtf ktygmyf spb jmpmyslqt qslmy, lio ojtb syt lymiejo gmy vjsftgiq
kiykmvtv, om ojt udveyswt mg ojt wmffipdodtv cjtyt vtooqtu spu om ojt eytso
utfmysqdrsodmp mg ojt bmioj mg ojmvt qmwsqdodtv. Dg ojdv txdq kyswodwt wsp
lt qtedvqsotu sesdpvo, do cdqq lt fb kqtsviyt sv ctqq sv uiob om tpgmywt
spb yteiqsodmp om vtwiyt vm utvdyslqt sp tpu.

Do dv jmktu ojso ptemodsodmpv ltocttp ojt Emxtypftpo mg Hsksp spu ojt
oytsob kmctyv, qmmadpe om ojt giyojty mktpdpe mg ojt Tfkdyt spu om ojt
ytfmxsq mg xsydmiv ytvoydwodmpv ikmp oysut spu oysxtq, fsb vmmp kymuiwt ojt
ytviqov utvdytu, cjdwj wsp pmo gsdq om dpiyt om ojt ltptgdo mg sqq ojt
ksyodtv. Jsxdpe mp kytxdmiv mwwsvdmpv vilfdootu om ojt wmpvdutysodmp mg
Wmpeytvv ojt kymkydtob mg ojt ytqtsvt mg ojt Hsksptvt Emxtypftpo gymf ojt
giyojty ksbftpo mg ojt dputfpdob iputy ojt wmpxtpodmp mg Mwomlty 22, 1864,
spu sv pm swodmp jsu lttp osatp ojtytmp, do ltwsft fb uiob om ytesyu ojt
mlqdesodmpv mg ojt wmpxtpodmp sv dp gmywt; spu sv ojt mojty kmctyv
dpotytvotu jsu ytwtdxtu ojtdy kmyodmp mg ojt dputfpdob dp giqq, ojt
fdpdvoty mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv dp Hsksp jsv, dp ltjsqg mg ojdv Emxtypftpo,
ytwtdxtu ojt ytfsdputy mg ojt sfmipo uit om ojt Ipdotu Vosotv iputy ojt
wmpxtpodmp mg Vdfmpmvsad. D vilfdo ojt kymkydtob mg skkqbdpe ojt dpwmft mg
s ksyo, dg pmo mg ojt cjmqt, mg ojdv gipu om ojt tuiwsodmp dp ojt Hsksptvt
qspeiset mg s piflty mg bmipe ftp om lt iputy mlqdesodmpv om vtyxt ojt
Emxtypftpo gmy s vktwdgdtu odft sv dpotykytotyv so ojt qtesodmp spu ojt
wmpviqsotv dp Hsksp. S qdfdotu piflty mg Hsksptvt bmiojv fdejo so ojt vsft
odft lt tuiwsotu dp miy mcp xtypswiqsy, spu fioisq ltptgdov cmiqu ytviqo om
lmoj Emxtypftpov. Ojt dfkmyospwt mg jsxdpe miy mcp wdodrtpv, wmfktotpo spu
gsfdqdsy cdoj ojt qspeiset mg Hsksp, om swo sv dpotykytotyv spu dp mojty
wskswdodtv wmpptwotu cdoj ojt qtesodmp spu ojt wmpviqsotv dp ojso wmipoyb
wsp pmo ytsudqb lt mxtytvodfsotu.

Ojt sfmipo scsyutu om ojt Emxtypftpo mg Eytso Lydosdp lb ojt fdztu
wmffdvvdmp myespdrtu iputy ojt kymxdvdmpv mg ojt oytsob mg Csvjdpeomp dp
vtooqtftpo mg ojt wqsdfv mg Lydodvj vilhtwov sydvdpe gymf swov wmffdootu
ltocttp Skydq 13, 1861, spu Skydq 9, 1865, ltwsft ksbslqt, iputy ojt otyfv
mg ojt oytsob, cdojdp ojt ksvo btsy, spu csv ksdu ikmp ojt 21vo usb mg
Vtkotflty, 1874. Dp ojdv wmpptwodmp D ytptc fb ytwmfftpusodmp, fsut so ojt
mktpdpe mg ojt qsvo vtvvdmp mg Wmpeytvv, ojso s vktwdsq wmiyo lt wytsotu om
jtsy spu utotyfdpt sqq wqsdfv mg sqdtpv sesdpvo ojt Ipdotu Vosotv sydvdpe
gymf swov wmffdootu sesdpvo ojtdy ktyvmpv my kymktyob uiydpe ojt
dpviyytwodmp. Do skktsyv tnidoslqt ojso mkkmyoipdob vjmiqu lt mggtytu om
wdodrtpv mg mojty vosotv om kytvtpo ojtdy wqsdfv, sv ctqq sv om ojmvt
Lydodvj vilhtwov cjmvt wqsdfv ctyt pmo sufdvvdlqt iputy ojt qsot
wmffdvvdmp, om ojt tsyqb utwdvdmp mg vmft wmfktotpo oydlipsq. Om ojdv tpu D
ytwmfftpu ojt ptwtvvsyb qtedvqsodmp om myespdrt s wmiyo om udvkmvt mg sqq
wqsdfv mg sqdtpv mg ojt psoiyt ytgtyytu om dp sp tnidoslqt spu vsodvgswomyb
fsppty, spu om ytqdtxt Wmpeytvv spu ojt Utksyoftpov gymf ojt wmpvdutysodmp
mg ojtvt nitvodmpv.

Ojt qtedvqsodmp ptwtvvsyb om tzotpu om ojt wmqmpb mg Ptcgmipuqspu wtyosdp
syodwqtv mg ojt oytsob mg Csvjdpeomp mg ojt 8oj usb mg Fsb, 1871, jsxdpe
lttp jsu, s kymomwmq om ojso tggtwo csv vdeptu dp ltjsqg mg ojt Ipdotu
Vosotv spu mg Eytso Lydosdp mp ojt 28oj usb mg Fsb qsvo, spu csv uiqb
kymwqsdftu mp ojt gmqqmcdpe usb. S wmkb mg ojt kymwqsfsodmp dv vilfdootu
jtytcdoj.

S wmkb mg ojt ytkmyo mg ojt wmffdvvdmpty skkmdpotu iputy ojt swo mg Fsywj
19, 1872, gmy viyxtbdpe spu fsyadpe ojt lmipusyb ltocttp ojt Ipdotu Vosotv
spu ojt Lydodvj kmvvtvvdmpv gymf ojt Qsat mg ojt Cmmuv om ojt viffdo mg ojt
Ymwab Fmiposdpv dv jtytcdoj oyspvfdootu. D sf jskkb om sppmipwt ojso ojt
gdtqu cmya mg ojt wmffdvvdmp jsv lttp wmfkqtotu, spu ojt tpodyt qdpt gymf
ojt pmyojctvo wmypty mg ojt Qsat mg ojt Cmmuv om ojt viffdo mg ojt Ymwab
Fmiposdpv jsv lttp yip spu fsyatu ikmp ojt viygswt mg ojt tsyoj. Do dv
ltqdtxtu ojso ojt sfmipo ytfsdpdpe iptzktputu mg ojt skkymkydsodmp fsut so
ojt qsvo vtvvdmp mg Wmpeytvv cdqq lt viggdwdtpo om wmfkqtot ojt mggdwt
cmya. D ytwmfftpu ojso ojt siojmydob mg Wmpeytvv lt edxtp om ojt ivt mg ojt
iptzktputu lsqspwt mg ojt skkymkydsodmp dp ojt wmfkqtodmp mg ojt cmya mg
ojt wmffdvvdmp dp fsadpe dov ytkmyo spu kytksydpe ojt ptwtvvsyb fskv.

Ojt wmiyo apmcp sv ojt Wmiyo mg Wmffdvvdmptyv mg Sqslsfs Wqsdfv, wytsotu lb
sp swo mg Wmpeytvv mg ojt qsvo vtvvdmp, jsv myespdrtu spu wmfftpwtu dov
cmya, spu do dv om lt jmktu ojso ojt wqsdfv sufdvvdlqt iputy ojt kymxdvdmpv
mg ojt swo fsb lt vkttudqb svwtyosdptu spu ksdu.

Do jsv lttp uttftu suxdvslqt om tztywdvt ojt udvwytodmp wmpgtyytu ikmp ojt
Tztwiodxt so ojt qsvo vtvvdmp lb swwtkodpe ojt wmpudodmpv ytnidytu lb ojt
Emxtypftpo mg Oiyatb gmy ojt kydxdqtet mg sqqmcdpe wdodrtpv mg ojt Ipdotu
Vosotv om jmqu ytsq tvosot dp ojt gmyfty wmipoyb, spu lb svvtpodpe om s
wtyosdp wjspet dp ojt hiydvudwodmp mg wmiyov dp ojt qsooty. S wmkb mg ojt
kymwqsfsodmp ikmp ojtvt vilhtwov dv jtytcdoj wmffipdwsotu.

Ojtyt jsv lttp pm fsotydsq wjspet dp miy ytqsodmpv cdoj ojt dputktputpo
Vosotv mg ojdv jtfdvkjtyt cjdwj ctyt gmyftyqb iputy ojt umfdpdmp mg Vksdp.
Fsysiudpe mp ojt gympodtyv ltocttp Ftzdwm spu Otzsv vodqq gytnitpoqb osatv
kqswt, utvkdot ojt xdedqspwt mg ojt wdxdq spu fdqdosyb siojmydodtv dp ojso
nisyoty. Ojt udggdwiqob mg wjtwadpe viwj oytvksvvtv sqmpe ojt wmiyvt mg s
ydxty mg viwj qtpeoj sv ojt Ydm Eysput, spu vm mgotp gmyuslqt, dv mlxdmiv.
Do dv jmktu ojso ojt tggmyov mg ojdv Emxtypftpo cdqq lt vtwmputu lb ojmvt
mg Ftzdwm om ojt tggtwoisq vikkytvvdmp mg ojtvt swov mg cympe.

Gymf s ytkmyo ikmp ojt wmpudodmp mg ojt livdptvv ltgmyt ojt Sftydwsp spu
Ftzdwsp Hmdpo Wqsdfv Wmffdvvdmp, fsut lb ojt setpo mp ojt ksyo mg ojt
Ipdotu Vosotv, spu usotu Mwomlty 28, 1874, do skktsyv ojso mg ojt 1,017
wqsdfv gdqtu mp ojt ksyo mg wdodrtpv mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv, 483 jsu lttp
gdpsqqb utwdutu spu 75 ctyt dp ojt jspuv mg ojt ifkdyt, qtsxdpe 462 om lt
udvkmvtu mg; spu mg ojt 998 wqsdfv gdqtu sesdpvo ojt Ipdotu Vosotv, 726 jsu
lttp gdpsqqb utwdutu, D csv ltgmyt ojt ifkdyt, spu 271 ytfsdptu om lt
udvkmvtu mg. Vdpwt ojt usot mg viwj ytkmyo mojty wqsdfv jsxt lttp udvkmvtu
mg, ytuiwdpe vmftcjso ojt piflty vodqq ktpudpe; spu mojtyv jsxt lttp ksvvtu
ikmp lb ojt syldoysomyv. Do jsv ltwmft skksytpo, dp xdtc mg ojtvt gdeiytv
spu mg ojt gswo ojso ojt cmya utxmqxdpe mp ojt ifkdyt dv ksyodwiqsyqb
qslmydmiv, ojso ojt wmffdvvdmp cdqq lt ipslqt om udvkmvt mg ojt tpodyt
piflty mg wqsdfv ktpudpe kydmy om ojt 1vo usb mg Gtlyisyb, 1875--ojt usot
gdztu gmy dov tzkdysodmp. Ptemodsodmpv syt ktpudpe qmmadpe om ojt vtwiydpe
mg ojt ytviqov mg ojt utwdvdmpv cjdwj jsxt lttp ytswjtu spu om s giyojty
tzotpvdmp mg ojt wmffdvvdmp gmy s qdfdotu odft, cjdwj do dv wmpgdutpoqb
jmktu cdqq viggdwt om lydpe sqq ojt livdptvv pmc ltgmyt do om s gdpsq
wqmvt.

Ojt voydgt dp ojt Syetpodpt Ytkilqdw dv om lt utkqmytu, lmoj mp swwmipo mg
ojt ksyodtv ojtytom spu gymf ojt kymlslqt tggtwov mp ojt dpotytvov mg ojmvt
tpesetu dp ojt oysut om ojso nisyoty, mg cjmf ojt Ipdotu Vosotv syt sfmpe
ojt kydpwdksq. Sv bto, vm gsy sv D sf scsyt, ojtyt jsv lttp pm xdmqsodmp mg
miy ptioysqdob ydejov, cjdwj, sv ctqq sv miy uiodtv dp ojso ytvktwo, do
vjsqq lt fb tputsxmy om fsdposdp spu mlvtyxt.

Do dv cdoj yteyto D sppmipwt ojso pm giyojty ksbftpo jsv lttp ytwtdxtu gymf
ojt Emxtypftpo mg Xtptritqs mp swwmipo mg scsyuv dp gsxmy mg wdodrtpv mg
ojt Ipdotu Vosotv. Jmktv jsxt lttp tpotyosdptu ojso dg ojso Ytkilqdw wmiqu
tvwskt lmoj gmytdep spu wdxdq csy gmy s gtc btsyv dov eytso psoiysq
ytvmiywtv cmiqu tpslqt do om jmpmy dov mlqdesodmpv. Ojmiej do dv pmc
iputyvommu om lt so ktswt cdoj mojty wmipoydtv, s vtydmiv dpviyytwodmp dv
ytkmyotu om lt dp kymeytvv dp sp dfkmyospo ytedmp mg ojso Ytkilqdw. Ojdv
fsb lt osatp suxsposet mg sv spmojty ytsvmp om utqsb ojt ksbftpo mg ojt
uitv mg miy wdodrtpv.

Ojt utkqmyslqt voydgt dp Wils wmpodpitv cdojmio spb fsyatu wjspet dp ojt
ytqsodxt suxsposetv mg ojt wmpotpudpe gmywtv. Ojt dpviyytwodmp wmpodpitv,
lio Vksdp jsv esdptu pm viktydmydob. Vdz btsyv mg voydgt edxt om ojt
dpviyytwodmp s vdepdgdwspwt cjdwj wsp pmo lt utpdtu. Dov uiysodmp spu ojt
otpswdob mg dov sujtytpwt, ometojty cdoj ojt slvtpwt mg fspdgtvotu kmcty mg
vikkytvvdmp mp ojt ksyo mg Vksdp, wsp pmo lt wmpoymxtyotu, spu fsb fsat
vmft kmvdodxt votkv mp ojt ksyo mg mojty kmctyv s fsooty mg vtqg-ptwtvvdob.
D jsu wmpgdutpoqb jmktu so ojdv odft om lt slqt om sppmipwt ojt syyspetftpo
mg vmft mg ojt dfkmyospo nitvodmpv ltocttp ojdv Emxtypftpo spu ojso mg
Vksdp, lio ojt ptemodsodmpv jsxt lttp kymoyswotu. Ojt ipjskkb dpotvodpt
udvvtpvdmpv mg Vksdp wmffspu miy kymgmipu vbfksojb, spu fivo lt swwtkotu sv
ktyjskv s wsivt mg vmft utqsb. Sp tsyqb vtooqtftpo, dp ksyo so qtsvo, mg
ojt nitvodmpv ltocttp ojt Emxtypftpov dv jmktu. Dp ojt ftspodft, scsdodpe
ojt ytviqov mg dfftudsotqb ktpudpe ptemodsodmpv, D utgty s giyojty spu
giqqty wmffipdwsodmp mp ojt vilhtwo mg ojt ytqsodmpv mg ojdv wmipoyb spu
Vksdp.

D jsxt sesdp om wsqq ojt sootpodmp mg Wmpeytvv om ojt ipvsodvgswomyb
wmpudodmp mg ojt tzdvodpe qscv cdoj ytgtytpwt om tzksoydsodmp spu ojt
tqtwodmp mg psodmpsqdob. Gmyftyqb, sfdu wmpgqdwodpe mkdpdmpv spu utwdvdmpv,
do csv udggdwiqo om tzswoqb utotyfdpt jmc gsy ojt umwoydpt mg ktyktoisq
sqqtedspwt csv skkqdwslqt om wdodrtpv mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv. Wmpeytvv lb ojt
swo mg ojt 27oj mg Hiqb, 1868, svvtyotu ojt slvoyswo ydejo mg tzksoydsodmp
sv s gipusftposq kydpwdkqt mg ojdv Emxtypftpo. Pmocdojvospudpe viwj
svvtyodmp spu ojt ptwtvvdob mg gytnitpo skkqdwsodmp mg ojt kydpwdkqt, pm
qtedvqsodmp jsv lttp jsu utgdpdpe cjso swov my gmyfsqdodtv vjsqq cmya
tzksoydsodmp my cjtp s wdodrtp vjsqq lt uttftu om jsxt ytpmipwtu my om jsxt
qmvo jdv wdodrtpvjdk. Ojt dfkmyospwt mg viwj utgdpdodmp dv mlxdmiv. Ojt
ytkytvtposodxtv mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv dp gmytdep wmipoydtv syt wmpodpisqqb
wsqqtu ikmp om qtpu ojtdy sdu spu ojt kymotwodmp mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv om
ktyvmpv wmpwtypdpe ojt emmu gsdoj my ojt ytsqdob mg cjmvt wdodrtpvjdk ojtyt
dv so qtsvo eytso nitvodmp. Dp vmft wsvtv ojt kymxdvdmpv mg ojt oytsodtv
giypdvj vmft eidut; dp mojtyv do vttfv qtgo om ojt ktyvmp wqsdfdpe ojt
ltptgdov mg wdodrtpvjdk, cjdqt qdxdpe dp s gmytdep wmipoyb, wmpoydliodpe dp
pm fsppty om ojt ktygmyfspwt mg ojt uiodtv mg s wdodrtp mg ojt Ipdotu
Vosotv, spu cdojmio dpotpodmp so spb odft om ytoiyp spu iputyosat ojmvt
uiodtv, om ivt ojt wqsdfv om wdodrtpvjdk mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv vdfkqb sv s
vjdtqu gymf ojt ktygmyfspwt mg ojt mlqdesodmpv mg s wdodrtp tqvtcjtyt.

Ojt vosoiv mg wjdquytp lmyp mg Sftydwsp ksytpov ytvdudpe dp s gmytdep
wmipoyb, mg Sftydwsp cmftp cjm jsxt fsyydtu sqdtpv, mg Sftydwsp wdodrtpv
ytvdudpe slymsu cjtyt viwj nitvodmp dv pmo yteiqsotu lb oytsob, syt sqq
vmiywtv mg gytnitpo udggdwiqob spu udvwivvdmp. Qtedvqsodmp mp ojtvt spu
vdfdqsy nitvodmpv, spu ksyodwiqsyqb utgdpdpe cjtp spu iputy cjso
wdywifvospwtv tzksoydsodmp wsp lt swwmfkqdvjtu my dv om lt kytviftu, dv
tvktwdsqqb pttutu. Dp ojdv wmpptwodmp D tsyptvoqb wsqq ojt sootpodmp mg
Wmpeytvv om ojt udggdwiqodtv sydvdpe gymf gysiuiqtpo psoiysqdrsodmp. Ojt
Ipdotu Vosotv cdvtqb, gyttqb, spu qdltysqqb mggtyv dov wdodrtpvjdk om sqq
cjm fsb wmft dp emmu gsdoj om ytvdut cdojdp dov qdfdov mp ojtdy wmfkqbdpe
cdoj wtyosdp kytvwydltu ytsvmpslqt spu vdfkqt gmyfsqdodtv spu wmpudodmpv.
Sfmpe ojt jdejtvo uiodtv mg ojt Emxtypftpo dv ojso om sggmyu gdyf,
viggdwdtpo, spu tnisq kymotwodmp om sqq dov wdodrtpv, cjtojty psodxt lmyp
my psoiysqdrtu. Wsyt vjmiqu lt osatp ojso s ydejo wsyybdpe cdoj do viwj
vikkmyo gymf ojt Emxtypftpo vjmiqu pmo lt gysiuiqtpoqb mlosdptu, spu vjmiqu
lt ltvomctu mpqb ikmp giqq kymmg mg s wmfkqdspwt cdoj ojt qsc; spu bto
gytnitpo dpvospwtv syt lymiejo om ojt sootpodmp mg ojt Emxtypftpo mg
dqqtesq spu gysiuiqtpo psoiysqdrsodmp spu mg ojt ipsiojmydrtu ivt mg
wtyodgdwsotv ojiv dfkymktyqb mlosdptu. Dp vmft wsvtv ojt gysiuiqtpo
wjsyswoty mg ojt psoiysqdrsodmp jsv skktsytu ikmp ojt gswt mg ojt
wtyodgdwsot dovtqg; dp mojtyv tzsfdpsodmp udvwqmvtv ojso ojt jmquty jsu pmo
wmfkqdtu cdoj ojt qsc, spu dp mojtyv wtyodgdwsotv jsxt lttp mlosdptu cjtyt
ojt ktyvmpv jmqudpe ojtf pmo mpqb ctyt pmo tpodoqtu om lt psoiysqdrtu, lio
jsu pmo txtp lttp cdojdp ojt Ipdotu Vosotv so ojt odft mg ojt kytotputu
psoiysqdrsodmp. Dpvospwtv mg tswj mg ojtvt wqsvvtv mg gysiu syt udvwmxtytu
so miy qtesodmpv, cjtyt ojt wtyodgdwsotv mg psoiysqdrsodmp syt kytvtpotu
tdojty gmy ojt kiykmvt mg mlosdpdpe ksvvkmyov my dp utfspudpe ojt
kymotwodmp mg ojt qtesodmp. Cjtp ojt gysiu dv skksytpo mp ojt gswt mg viwj
wtyodgdwsotv, ojtb syt osatp ik lb ojt ytkytvtposodxtv mg ojt Emxtypftpo
spu gmycsyutu om ojt Utksyoftpo mg Vosot. Lio txtp ojtp ojt ytwmyu mg ojt
wmiyo dp cjdwj ojt gysiuiqtpo psoiysqdrsodmp mwwiyytu ytfsdpv, spu
uikqdwsot wtyodgdwsotv syt ytsudqb mlosdpslqt. Ikmp ojt kytvtposodmp mg
ojtvt gmy ojt dvvit mg ksvvkmyov my dp utfspudpe kymotwodmp mg ojt
Emxtypftpo, ojt gysiu vmftodftv tvwsktv pmodwt, spu viwj wtyodgdwsotv syt
pmo dpgytnitpoqb ivtu dp oyspvswodmpv mg livdptvv om ojt utwtkodmp spu
dphiyb mg dppmwtpo ksyodtv. Cdojmio kqswdpe spb suudodmpsq mlvoswqtv dp ojt
csb mg ojt mlosdpftpo mg wdodrtpvjdk lb ojt cmyojb spu ctqq-dpotpodmptu
gmytdepty cjm wmftv dp emmu gsdoj om wsvo jdv qmo cdoj miyv, D tsyptvoqb
ytwmfftpu giyojty qtedvqsodmp om kipdvj gysiuiqtpo psoiysqdrsodmp spu om
vtwiyt ojt ytsub wspwtqqsodmp mg ojt ytwmyu mg txtyb psoiysqdrsodmp fsut dp
gysiu.

Vdpwt fb qsvo sppisq ftvvset ojt tzwjspet jsv lttp fsut mg ojt ysodgdwsodmp
mg oytsodtv mg tzoysudodmp cdoj Ltqedif, Twisumy, Ktyi, spu Vsqxsumy; sqvm
mg s oytsob mg wmfftywt spu psxdesodmp cdoj Ktyi, spu mpt mg wmfftywt spu
wmpviqsy kydxdqtetv cdoj Vsqxsumy; sqq mg cjdwj jsxt lttp uiqb kymwqsdftu,
sv jsv sqvm s utwqsysodmp cdoj Yivvds cdoj ytgtytpwt om oysut-fsyav.

Ojt ytkmyo mg ojt Vtwytosyb mg ojt Oytsviyb, cjdwj lb qsc dv fsut udytwoqb
om Wmpeytvv, spu gmyfv pm ksyo mg ojdv ftvvset, cdqq vjmc ojt ytwtdkov spu
tzktpudoiytv mg ojt Emxtypftpo gmy ojt qsvo gdvwsq btsy, ojt sfmipo
ytwtdxtu gymf tswj vmiywt mg ytxtpit, spu ojt sfmipo ksdu mio gmy tswj mg
ojt Utksyoftpov mg Emxtypftpo. Do cdqq lt mlvtyxtu gymf ojdv ytkmyo ojso
ojt sfmipo mg ytwtdkov mxty tzktpudoiytv jsv lttp lio $2,344,882.30 gmy ojt
gdvwsq btsy tpudpe Hipt 30, 1874, spu ojso gmy ojt wiyytpo gdvwsq btsy ojt
tvodfsotu ytwtdkov mxty tzktpudoiytv cdqq pmo fiwj tzwttu $9,000,000. Dp
xdtc mg ojt qsyet psodmpsq utlo tzdvodpe spu ojt mlqdesodmp om suu 1 kty
wtpo kty sppif om ojt vdpadpe gipu, s vif sfmipodpe pmc om mxty $34,000,000
kty sppif, D vilfdo cjtojty ytxtpitv vjmiqu pmo lt dpwytsvtu my
tzktpudoiytv udfdpdvjtu om ytswj ojdv sfmipo mg viykqiv. Pmo om kymxdut gmy
ojt vdpadpe gipu dv s ksyodsq gsdqiyt om wmfkqb cdoj ojt wmpoyswov spu
mlqdesodmpv mg ojt Emxtypftpo. So ojt qsvo vtvvdmp mg Wmpeytvv s xtyb
wmpvdutyslqt ytuiwodmp csv fsut dp ysotv mg oszsodmp spu dp ojt piflty mg
syodwqtv vilfdootu om oszsodmp; ojt nitvodmp fsb ctqq lt svatu, cjtojty my
pmo, dp vmft dpvospwtv, ipcdvtqb. Dp wmpptwodmp cdoj ojdv vilhtwo, omm, D
xtpoiyt ojt mkdpdmp ojso ojt ftspv mg wmqqtwodpe ojt ytxtpit, tvktwdsqqb
gymf dfkmyov, jsxt lttp vm tflsyysvvtu lb qtedvqsodmp sv om fsat do
nitvodmpslqt cjtojty my pmo qsyet sfmipov syt pmo qmvo lb gsdqiyt om
wmqqtwo, om ojt udytwo qmvv mg ojt Oytsviyb spu om ojt kythiudwt mg ojt
dpotytvov mg jmptvo dfkmyotyv spu oszksbtyv.

Ojt Vtwytosyb mg ojt Oytsviyb dp jdv ytkmyo gsxmyv qtedvqsodmp qmmadpe om
sp tsyqb ytoiyp om vktwdt ksbftpov, ojiv vikkmyodpe xdtcv kytxdmivqb
tzkytvvtu dp ojdv ftvvset. Jt sqvm ytwmfftpuv twmpmfb dp skkymkydsodmpv;
wsqqv sootpodmp om ojt qmvv mg ytxtpit gymf ytktsqdpe ojt osz mp ots spu
wmggtt, cdojmio ltptgdo om ojt wmpvifty; ytwmfftpuv sp dpwytsvt mg 10 wtpov
s esqqmp mp cjdvab, spu, giyojty, ojso pm fmudgdwsodmp lt fsut dp ojt
lspadpe spu wiyytpwb ldqq ksvvtu so ojt qsvo vtvvdmp mg Wmpeytvv, ipqtvv
fmudgdwsodmp vjmiqu ltwmft ptwtvvsyb lb ytsvmp mg ojt sumkodmp mg ftsviytv
gmy ytoiypdpe om vktwdt ksbftpov. Dp ojtvt ytwmfftpusodmpv D wmyudsqqb
hmdp.

D cmiqu vieetvo om Wmpeytvv ojt kymkydtob mg ytsuhivodpe ojt osydgg vm sv
om dpwytsvt ojt ytxtpit, spu so ojt vsft odft utwytsvt ojt piflty mg
syodwqtv ikmp cjdwj uiodtv syt qtxdtu. Ojmvt syodwqtv cjdwj tpoty dpom miy
fspigswoiytv spu syt pmo kymuiwtu so jmft, do vttfv om ft, vjmiqu lt
tpotytu gytt. Ojmvt syodwqtv mg fspigswoiyt cjdwj ct kymuiwt s wmpvodoitpo
ksyo mg, lio um pmo kymuiwt ojt cjmqt, ojso ksyo cjdwj ct um pmo kymuiwt
vjmiqu tpoty gytt sqvm. D cdqq dpvospwt gdpt cmmq, ubtv, tow. Ojtvt
syodwqtv fivo lt dfkmyotu om gmyf s ksyo mg ojt fspigswoiyt mg ojt jdejty
eysutv mg cmmqtp emmuv. Wjtfdwsqv ivtu sv ubtv, wmfkmiputu dp ftudwdptv,
spu ivtu dp xsydmiv csbv dp fspigswoiytv wmft iputy ojdv wqsvv. Ojt
dpoymuiwodmp gytt mg uiob mg viwj cmmqv sv ct um pmo kymuiwt cmiqu
vodfiqsot ojt fspigswoiyt mg emmuv ytnidydpe ojt ivt mg ojmvt ct um
kymuiwt, spu ojtytgmyt cmiqu lt s ltptgdo om jmft kymuiwodmp. Ojtyt syt
fspb syodwqtv tpotydpe dpom "jmft fspigswoiytv" cjdwj ct um pmo kymuiwt
miyvtqxtv ojt osydgg ikmp cjdwj dpwytsvtv ojt wmvo mg kymuiwdpe ojt
fspigswoiytu syodwqt. Sqq wmyytwodmpv dp ojdv ytesyu syt dp ojt udytwodmp
mg lydpedpe qslmy spu wskdosq dp jsyfmpb cdoj tswj mojty spu mg vikkqbdpe
mpt mg ojt tqtftpov mg kymvktydob vm fiwj pttutu.

Ojt ytkmyo mg ojt Vtwytosyb mg Csy jtytcdoj sooswjtu, spu gmyfdpe s ksyo mg
ojdv ftvvset, edxtv sqq ojt dpgmyfsodmp wmpwtypdpe ojt mktysodmpv, cspov,
spu ptwtvvdodtv mg ojt Syfb, spu wmposdpv fspb vieetvodmpv spu
ytwmfftpusodmpv cjdwj D wmfftpu om bmiy vktwdsq sootpodmp.

Ojtyt dv pm wqsvv mg Emxtypftpo tfkqmbttv cjm syt jsyuty cmyatu ojsp ojt
Syfb--mggdwtyv spu ftp; pmpt cjm ktygmyf ojtdy osvav fmyt wjttygiqqb spu
tggdwdtpoqb spu iputy wdywifvospwtv mg eytsoty kydxsodmpv spu jsyuvjdkv.

Qtedvqsodmp dv utvdyslqt om ytputy fmyt tggdwdtpo ojdv lyspwj mg ojt kilqdw
vtyxdwt. Sqq ojt ytwmfftpusodmpv mg ojt Vtwytosyb mg Csy D ytesyu sv
hiudwdmiv, spu D tvktwdsqqb wmfftpu om bmiy sootpodmp ojt gmqqmcdpe: Ojt
wmpvmqdusodmp mg Emxtypftpo syvtpsqv; ojt ytvomysodmp mg fdqtset om
mggdwtyv oysxtqdpe iputy myutyv; ojt tztfkodmp mg fmptb ytwtdxtu gymf ojt
vsqt mg vilvdvotpwt vomytv gymf ltdpe wmxtytu dpom ojt Oytsviyb; ojt ivt mg
skkymkydsodmpv gmy ojt kiywjsvt mg vilvdvotpwt vomytv cdojmio csdodpe gmy
ojt ltedppdpe mg ojt gdvwsq btsy gmy cjdwj ojt skkymkydsodmp dv fsut; gmy
suudodmpsq skkymkydsodmpv gmy ojt wmqqtwodmp mg omyktum fsotydsq; gmy
dpwytsvtu skkymkydsodmpv gmy ojt fspigswoiyt mg syfv; gmy ytqdtxdpe ojt
xsydmiv Vosotv gymf dputlotuptvv gmy syfv wjsyetu om ojtf uiydpe ojt
ytltqqdmp; gmy uymkkdpe mggdwtyv gymf ojt ymqqv mg ojt Syfb cdojmio oydsq
gmy ojt mggtpvt mg uyscdpe ksb fmyt ojsp mpwt gmy ojt vsft ktydmu; gmy ojt
udvwmiysetftpo mg ojt kqsp om ksb vmqudtyv lb wjtta, spu gmy ojt
tvoslqdvjftpo mg s kymgtvvmyvjdk mg yjtomydw spu Tpeqdvj qdotysoiyt so Ctvo
Kmdpo. Ojt ytsvmpv gmy ojtvt ytwmfftpusodmpv syt mlxdmiv, spu syt vto gmyoj
viggdwdtpoqb dp ojt ytkmyov sooswjtu. D sqvm ytwmfftpu ojso ojt vosoiv mg
ojt vosgg wmykv mg ojt Syfb lt gdztu, cjtyt ojdv jsv pmo sqytsub lttp umpt,
vm ojso kymfmodmpv fsb lt fsut spu xswspwdtv gdqqtu sv ojtb mwwiy dp tswj
eysut cjtp ytuiwtu ltqmc ojt piflty om lt gdztu lb qsc. Ojt ptwtvvdob gmy
viwj qtedvqsodmp dv vktwdsqqb gtqo pmc dp ojt Ksb Utksyoftpo. Ojt piflty mg
mggdwtyv dp ojso utksyoftpo dv ltqmc ojt piflty sutnisot om ojt ktygmyfspwt
mg ojt uiodtv ytnidytu mg ojtf lb qsc.

Ojt tggdwdtpwb mg ojt Psxb jsv lttp qsyetqb dpwytsvtu uiydpe ojt qsvo btsy.
Iputy ojt dfkiqvt mg ojt gmytdep wmfkqdwsodmpv cjdwj ojytsotptu iv so ojt
wmfftpwtftpo mg ojt qsvo vtvvdmp mg Wmpeytvv, fmvo mg miy tggdwdtpo cmmutp
vjdkv ctyt kio dp wmpudodmp gmy dfftudsot vtyxdwt, spu ojt ytksdyv mg miy
dympwqsu gqtto ctyt kivjtu cdoj ojt iofmvo xdemy. Ojt ytviqo dv ojso fmvo
mg ojtvt syt pmc dp sp tggtwodxt vosot spu pttu mpqb om lt fspptu spu kio
dp wmffdvvdmp om em so mpwt dpom vtyxdwt.

Vmft mg ojt ptc vqmmkv siojmydrtu lb Wmpeytvv syt sqytsub dp wmffdvvdmp,
spu fmvo mg ojt ytfsdputy syt qsipwjtu spu csdo mpqb ojt wmfkqtodmp mg
ojtdy fswjdptyb om tpslqt ojtf om osat ojtdy kqswtv sv ksyo mg miy
tggtwodxt gmywt.

Ocm dymp omyktum vjdkv jsxt lttp wmfkqtotu uiydpe ojt qsvo btsy, spu gmiy
mg miy qsyet umilqt-oiyytotu dympwqsuv syt pmc iputyemdpe ytksdyv. Cjtp
ojtvt syt gdpdvjtu, txtybojdpe ojso dv ivtgiq mg miy Psxb, sv pmc
siojmydrtu, cdqq lt dp wmpudodmp gmy vtyxdwt, spu cdoj ojt suxspwt dp ojt
vwdtpwt mg omyktum csygsyt ojt Sftydwsp Psxb, wmfksysodxtqb vfsqq sv do dv,
cdqq lt gmipu so spb odft kmctygiq gmy ojt kiykmvtv mg s ktswtgiq psodmp.

Fiwj jsv lttp swwmfkqdvjtu uiydpe ojt btsy dp sdu mg vwdtpwt spu om
dpwytsvt ojt vif mg etptysq apmcqtuet spu giyojty ojt dpotytvov mg wmfftywt
spu wdxdqdrsodmp. Tzotpvdxt spu fiwj-pttutu vmipudpev jsxt lttp fsut gmy
jbuymeyskjdw kiykmvtv spu om gdz ojt kymkty ymiotv mg mwtsp otqteyskjv.
Giyojty viyxtbv mg ojt eytso Dvojfiv jsxt lttp iputyosatp spu wmfkqtotu,
spu ocm xtvvtqv mg ojt Psxb syt pmc tfkqmbtu, dp wmphipwodmp cdoj ojmvt mg
Tpeqspu, Gyspwt, Etyfspb, spu Yivvds, dp mlvtyxsodmpv wmpptwotu cdoj ojt
oyspvdo mg Xtpiv, vm ivtgiq spu dpotytvodpe om ojt vwdtpodgdw cmyqu.

Ojt tvodfsotv gmy ojdv lyspwj mg ojt kilqdw vtyxdwt um pmo udggty
fsotydsqqb gymf ojmvt mg qsvo btsy, ojmvt gmy ojt etptysq vikkmyo mg ojt
vtyxdwt ltdpe vmftcjso qtvv spu ojmvt gmy ktyfsptpo dfkymxtftpov so ojt
xsydmiv vosodmpv ysojty qsyety ojsp ojt wmyytvkmpudpe tvodfsot fsut s btsy
sem. Ojt yteiqsy fsdpotpspwt spu s votsub dpwytsvt dp ojt tggdwdtpwb mg
ojdv fmvo dfkmyospo syf dp kymkmyodmp om ojt eymcoj mg miy fsydodft
dpotywmiyvt spu dpotytvov dv ytwmfftputu om ojt sootpodmp mg Wmpeytvv.

Ojt ivt mg ojt Psxb dp odft mg ktswt fdejo lt giyojty iodqdrtu lb s udytwo
siojmydrsodmp mg ojt tfkqmbftpo mg psxsq xtvvtqv dp tzkqmysodmpv spu
viyxtbv mg ojt vikkmvtu psxdeslqt csotyv mg mojty psodmpsqdodtv mp ojdv
wmpodptpo, tvktwdsqqb ojt oydliosydtv mg ojt ocm eytso ydxtyv mg Vmioj
Sftydws, ojt Mydpmwm spu ojt Sfsrmp. Pmojdpe kytxtpov, iputy tzdvodpe qscv,
viwj tzkqmysodmp, tzwtko ojso tzktpudoiytv fivo lt fsut dp viwj tzktudodmpv
ltbmpu ojmvt ivisqqb kymxdutu gmy dp ojt skkymkydsodmpv. Ojt gdtqu
utvdepsotu dv ipnitvodmpslqb mpt mg dpotytvo spu mpt wskslqt mg qsyet
utxtqmkftpo mg wmfftywdsq dpotytvov--suxsposetmiv om ojt ktmkqtv ytswjtu
spu om ojmvt cjm fsb tvoslqdvj ytqsodmpv cdoj ojtf.

Tuiwsodmp mg ojt ktmkqt tpodoqtu om tztywdvt ojt ydejo mg gyspwjdvt D
ytesyu tvvtpodsq om etptysq kymvktydob txtybcjtyt, spu tvktwdsqqb vm dp
ytkilqdwv, cjtyt ldyoj, tuiwsodmp, my kytxdmiv wmpudodmp umtv pmo tpoty
dpom swwmipo dp edxdpe viggyset. Ptzo om ojt kilqdw vwjmmq, ojt kmvo-mggdwt
dv ojt eytso setpo mg tuiwsodmp mxty miy xsvo otyydomyb. Ojt yskdudob cdoj
cjdwj ptc vtwodmpv syt ltdpe vtooqtu, ojiv dpwytsvdpe ojt wsyybdpe mg fsdqv
dp s fmyt yskdu ysodm ojsp ojt dpwytsvt mg ytwtdkov, dv pmo sqsyfdpe. Ojt
ytkmyo mg ojt Kmvofsvoty-Etptysq jtytcdoj sooswjtu vjmcv ojso ojtyt csv sp
dpwytsvt mg ytxtpit dp jdv Utksyoftpo dp 1873 mxty ojt kytxdmiv btsy mg
$1,674,411, spu sp dpwytsvt mg wmvo mg wsyybdpe ojt fsdqv spu ksbdpe
tfkqmbttv mg $3,041,468.91. Ojt ytkmyo mg ojt Kmvofsvoty-Etptysq edxtv
dpotytvodpe vosodvodwv mg jdv Utksyoftpo, spu wmfksytv ojtf cdoj ojt
wmyytvkmpudpe vosodvodwv mg s btsy sem, vjmcdpe s eymcoj dp txtyb lyspwj mg
ojt Utksyoftpo.

S kmvosq wmpxtpodmp jsv lttp wmpwqiutu cdoj Ptc Vmioj Csqtv, sp tzwjspet mg
kmvosq wsyuv tvoslqdvjtu cdoj Vcdortyqspu, spu ojt ptemodsodmpv ktpudpe gmy
vtxtysq btsyv ksvo cdoj Gyspwt jsxt lttp otyfdpsotu dp s wmpxtpodmp cdoj
ojso wmipoyb, cjdwj ctpo dpom tggtwo qsvo Sieivo.

Sp dpotypsodmpsq kmvosq wmpeytvv csv wmpxtptu dp Ltypt, Vcdortyqspu, dp
Vtkotflty qsvo, so cjdwj ojt Ipdotu Vosotv csv ytkytvtpotu lb sp mggdwty mg
ojt Kmvo-Mggdwt Utksyoftpo mg fiwj tzktydtpwt spu mg nisqdgdwsodmp gmy ojt
kmvdodmp. S wmpxtpodmp gmy ojt tvoslqdvjftpo mg sp dpotypsodmpsq kmvosq
ipdmp csv seyttu ikmp spu vdeptu lb ojt utqtesotv mg ojt wmipoydtv
ytkytvtpotu, vilhtwo om ojt skkymxsq mg ojt kymkty siojmydodtv mg ojmvt
wmipoydtv.

D ytvktwogiqqb udytwo bmiy sootpodmp om ojt ytkmyo mg ojt
Kmvofsvoty-Etptysq spu om jdv vieetvodmpv dp ytesyu om sp tnidoslqt
suhivoftpo mg ojt nitvodmp mg wmfktpvsodmp om ysdqymsuv gmy wsyybdpe ojt
fsdqv.

Bmiy sootpodmp cdqq lt uyscp om ojt ipvtooqtu wmpudodmp mg sggsdyv dp vmft
mg ojt Vmiojtyp Vosotv.

Mp ojt 14oj mg Vtkotflty qsvo ojt emxtypmy mg Qmidvdsps wsqqtu ikmp ft, sv
kymxdutu lb ojt Wmpvodoiodmp spu qscv mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv, om sdu dp
vikkytvvdpe umftvodw xdmqtpwt dp ojso Vosot. Ojdv wsqq csv fsut dp xdtc mg
s kymwqsfsodmp dvvitu mp ojso usb lb U. L. Ktpp, wqsdfdpe ojso jt csv
tqtwotu qdtiotpspo-emxtypmy dp 1872, spu wsqqdpe ikmp ojt fdqdods mg ojt
Vosot om syf, svvtflqt, spu uydxt gymf kmcty ojt iviyktyv, sv jt utvdepsotu
ojt mggdwtyv mg ojt Vosot emxtypftpo. Mp ojt ptzo usb D dvvitu fb
kymwqsfsodmp wmffspudpe ojt dpviyetpov om udvktyvt cdojdp gdxt usbv gymf
ojt usot ojtytmg, spu vilvtnitpoqb qtsyptu ojso mp ojso usb ojtb jsu osatp
gmywdlqt kmvvtvvdmp mg ojt vosotjmivt. Votkv ctyt osatp lb ft om vikkmyo
ojt tzdvodpe spu ytwmepdrtu Vosot emxtypftpo, lio ltgmyt ojt tzkdysodmp mg
ojt gdxt usbv ojt dpviyytwodmpsyb fmxtftpo csv kyswodwsqqb slspumptu, spu
ojt mggdwtyv mg ojt Vosot emxtypftpo, cdoj vmft fdpmy tzwtkodmpv, ytviftu
ojtdy kmctyv spu uiodtv. Wmpvdutydpe ojso ojt kytvtpo Vosot sufdpdvoysodmp
mg Qmidvdsps jsv lttp ojt mpqb emxtypftpo dp ojso Vosot gmy ptsyqb ocm
btsyv; ojso do jsv lttp oswdoqb swapmcqtuetu spu swnidtvwtu dp sv viwj lb
Wmpeytvv, spu fmyt ojsp mpwt tzkytvvqb ytwmepdrtu lb ft, D ytesyutu do sv
fb wqtsy uiob, cjtp qtesqqb wsqqtu ikmp gmy ojso kiykmvt, om kytxtpo dov
mxtyojymc lb sp syftu fml iputy kytotpvt mg gysiu spu dyyteiqsydob dp ojt
tqtwodmp mg 1872. D jsxt jtytomgmyt wsqqtu ojt sootpodmp mg Wmpeytvv om
ojdv vilhtwo, vosodpe ojso mp swwmipo mg ojt gysiuv spu gmyetydtv wmffdootu
so vsdu tqtwodmp, spu ltwsivt do skktsyv ojso ojt ytoiypv ojtytmg ctyt
ptxty qtesqqb wspxsvvtu, do csv dfkmvvdlqt om otqq ojtytlb cjm ctyt wjmvtp;
lio gymf ojt ltvo vmiywtv mg dpgmyfsodmp so fb wmffspu D jsxt sqcsbv
ltqdtxtu ojso ojt kytvtpo Vosot mggdwtyv ytwtdxtu s fshmydob mg ojt qtesq
xmotv swoisqqb wsvo so ojso tqtwodmp. D ytktso cjso D vsdu dp fb vktwdsq
ftvvset mg Gtlyisyb 23, 1873, ojso dp ojt txtpo mg pm swodmp lb Wmpeytvv D
fivo wmpodpit om ytwmepdrt ojt emxtypftpo jtytomgmyt ytwmepdrtu lb ft.

D yteyto om vsb ojso cdoj kytksysodmpv gmy ojt qsot tqtwodmp utwdutu
dpudwsodmpv skktsytu dp vmft qmwsqdodtv dp ojt Vmiojtyp Vosotv mg s
utotyfdpsodmp, lb swov mg xdmqtpwt spu dpodfdusodmp, om utkydxt wdodrtpv mg
ojt gyttumf mg ojt lsqqmo ltwsivt mg ojtdy kmqdodwsq mkdpdmpv. Lspuv mg
ftp, fsvatu spu syftu, fsut ojtdy skktsyspwt; Cjdot Qtseitv spu mojty
vmwdtodtv ctyt gmyftu; qsyet nispododtv mg syfv spu sffipdodmp ctyt
dfkmyotu spu udvoydliotu om ojtvt myespdrsodmpv; fdqdosyb uydqqv, cdoj
ftpswdpe utfmpvoysodmpv, ctyt jtqu, spu cdoj sqq ojtvt fiyutyv tpmiej ctyt
wmffdootu om vkytsu otyymy sfmpe ojmvt cjmvt kmqdodwsq swodmp csv om lt
vikkytvvtu, dg kmvvdlqt, lb ojtvt dpomqtyspo spu wydfdpsq kymwttudpev. Dp
vmft kqswtv wmqmytu qslmytyv ctyt wmfktqqtu om xmot swwmyudpe om ojt cdvjtv
mg ojtdy tfkqmbtyv, iputy ojytsov mg udvwjsyet dg ojtb swotu mojtycdvt; spu
ojtyt syt omm fspb dpvospwtv dp cjdwj, cjtp ojtvt ojytsov ctyt udvytesyutu,
ojtb ctyt ytfmyvtqtvvqb tztwiotu lb ojmvt cjm fsut ojtf. D iputyvospu ojso
ojt gdgottpoj sftpuftpo om ojt Wmpvodoiodmp csv fsut om kytxtpo ojdv spu s
qdat vosot mg ojdpev, spu ojt swo mg Fsb 31, 1870, cdoj sftpuftpov, csv
ksvvtu om tpgmywt dov kymxdvdmpv, ojt mlhtwo mg lmoj ltdpe om eisyspott om
sqq wdodrtpv ojt ydejo om xmot spu om kymotwo ojtf dp ojt gytt tphmbftpo mg
ojso ydejo. Tphmdptu lb ojt Wmpvodoiodmp "om osat wsyt ojso ojt qscv lt
gsdojgiqqb tztwiotu," spu wmpxdpwtu lb ipumilotu txdutpwt ojso xdmqsodmpv
mg vsdu swo jsu lttp wmffdootu spu ojso s cdutvkytsu spu gqseyspo udvytesyu
mg do csv wmpotfkqsotu, ojt kymkty mggdwtyv ctyt dpvoyiwotu om kymvtwiot
ojt mggtputyv, spu oymmkv ctyt vosodmptu so wmpxtpdtpo kmdpov om sdu ojtvt
mggdwtyv, dg ptwtvvsyb, dp ojt ktygmyfspwt mg ojtdy mggdwdsq uiodtv.
Wmfkqsdpov syt fsut mg ojdv dpotygtytpwt lb Gtutysq siojmydob; lio dg vsdu
sftpuftpo spu swo um pmo kymxdut gmy viwj dpotygtytpwt iputy ojt
wdywifvospwtv sv slmxt vosotu, ojtp ojtb syt cdojmio ftspdpe, gmywt, my
tggtwo, spu ojt cjmqt vwjtft mg wmqmytu tpgyspwjdvtftpo dv cmyvt ojsp
fmwatyb spu qdooqt ltooty ojsp s wydft. Kmvvdlqb Wmpeytvv fsb gdpu do uit
om oyioj spu hivodwt om svwtyosdp, lb ftspv mg s wmffdoott, cjtojty ojt
sqqtetu cympev om wmqmytu wdodrtpv gmy kmqdodwsq kiykmvtv syt ytsq my ojt
ytkmyov ojtytmg ctyt fspigswoiytu gmy ojt mwwsvdmp.

Ojt cjmqt piflty mg oymmkv dp ojt Vosotv mg Qmidvdsps, Sqslsfs, Etmyeds,
Gqmydus, Vmioj Wsymqdps, Pmyoj Wsymqdps, Atpoiwab, Otpptvvtt, Syaspvsv,
Fdvvdvvdkkd, Fsybqspu, spu Xdyedpds so ojt odft mg ojt tqtwodmp csv 4,082.
Ojdv tflyswtv ojt esyydvmpv mg sqq ojt gmyov gymf ojt Utqscsyt om ojt Eiqg
mg Ftzdwm.

Spmojty oymilqt jsv sydvtp dp Syaspvsv. Syodwqt 13 mg ojt wmpvodoiodmp mg
ojso Vosot (cjdwj csv sumkotu dp 1868, spu ikmp ojt skkymxsq mg cjdwj lb
Wmpeytvv ojt Vosot csv ytvomytu om ytkytvtposodmp sv mpt mg ojt Vosotv mg
ojt Ipdmp) kymxdutv dp tggtwo ojso ltgmyt spb sftpuftpov kymkmvtu om ojdv
wmpvodoiodmp vjsqq ltwmft s ksyo ojtytmg ojtb vjsqq lt ksvvtu lb ocm
viwwtvvdxt svvtflqdtv spu ojtp vilfdootu om spu ysodgdtu lb s fshmydob mg
ojt tqtwomyv mg ojt Vosot xmodpe ojtytmp. Mp ojt 11oj mg Fsb, 1874, ojt
emxtypmy wmpxtptu sp tzoys vtvvdmp mg ojt etptysq svvtflqb mg ojt Vosot,
cjdwj mp ojt 18oj mg ojt vsft fmpoj ksvvtu sp swo kymxdudpe gmy s
wmpxtpodmp om gysft s ptc wmpvodoiodmp. Kiyvispo om ojdv swo, spu so sp
tqtwodmp jtqu mp ojt 30oj mg Hipt, 1874, ojt wmpxtpodmp csv skkymxtu, spu
utqtesotv ctyt wjmvtp ojtytom, cjm svvtflqtu mp ojt 14oj mg qsvo Hiqb spu
gysftu s ptc wmpvodoiodmp, ojt vwjtuiqt mg cjdwj kymxdutu gmy ojt tqtwodmp
mg sp tpodyt ptc vto mg Vosot mggdwtyv dp s fsppty wmpoysyb om ojt ojtp
tzdvodpe tqtwodmp qscv mg ojt Vosot. Mp ojt 13oj mg Mwomlty, 1874, ojdv
wmpvodoiodmp, sv ojtytdp kymxdutu, csv vilfdootu om ojt ktmkqt gmy ojtdy
skkymxsq my ythtwodmp, spu swwmyudpe om ojt tqtwodmp ytoiypv csv skkymxtu
lb s qsyet fshmydob mg ojmvt nisqdgdtu om xmot ojtytmp; spu so ojt vsft
tqtwodmp ktyvmpv ctyt wjmvtp om gdqq sqq ojt Vosot, wmipob, spu omcpvjdk
mggdwtv. Ojt emxtypmy tqtwotu dp 1872 gmy ojt otyf mg gmiy btsyv oiyptu
mxty jdv mggdwt om ojt emxtypmy wjmvtp iputy ojt ptc wmpvodoiodmp,
cjtytikmp ojt qdtiotpspo-emxtypmy, sqvm tqtwotu dp 1872 gmy s otyf mg gmiy
btsyv, wqsdfdpe om swo sv emxtypmy, spu sqqtedpe ojso vsdu kymwttudpev lb
cjdwj ojt ptc wmpvodoiodmp csv fsut spu s ptc vto mg mggdwtyv tqtwotu ctyt
ipwmpvodoiodmpsq, dqqtesq, spu xmdu, wsqqtu ikmp ft, sv kymxdutu dp vtwodmp
4, Syodwqt DX, mg ojt Wmpvodoiodmp, om kymotwo ojt Vosot sesdpvo umftvodw
xdmqtpwt. Sv Wmpeytvv dv pmc dpxtvodesodpe ojt kmqdodwsq sggsdyv mg
Syaspvsv, D jsxt utwqdptu om dpotygtyt.

Ojt cjmqt vilhtwo mg Tztwiodxt dpotygtytpwt cdoj ojt sggsdyv mg s Vosot dv
ytkiepspo om kilqdw mkdpdmp, om ojt gttqdpev mg ojmvt cjm, gymf ojtdy
mggdwdsq wskswdob, fivo lt ivtu dp viwj dpotykmvdodmp, spu om jdf my ojmvt
cjm fivo udytwo. Ipqtvv fmvo wqtsyqb mp ojt vdut mg qsc, viwj dpotygtytpwt
ltwmftv s wydft; cdoj ojt qsc om vikkmyo do, do dv wmputfptu cdojmio s
jtsodpe. D utvdyt, ojtytgmyt, ojso sqq ptwtvvdob gmy Tztwiodxt udytwodmp dp
qmwsq sggsdyv fsb ltwmft ipptwtvvsyb spu mlvmqtot. D dpxdot ojt sootpodmp,
pmo mg Wmpeytvv, lio mg ojt ktmkqt mg ojt Ipdotu Vosotv, om ojt wsivtv spu
tggtwov mg ojtvt ipjskkb nitvodmpv. Dv ojtyt pmo s udvkmvdodmp mp mpt vdut
om fsepdgb cympev spu mioysetv, spu mp ojt mojty vdut om ltqdooqt ojtf my
hivodgb ojtf? Dg kilqdw mkdpdmp wmiqu lt udytwotu om s wmyytwo viyxtb mg
cjso dv spu om ytliadpe cympe spu sdudpe ojt kymkty siojmydodtv dp
kipdvjdpe do, s ltooty vosot mg gttqdpe cmiqu lt dpwiqwsotu, spu ojt vmmpty
ct cmiqu jsxt ojso ktswt cjdwj cmiqu qtsxt ojt Vosotv gytt dputtu om
yteiqsot ojtdy mcp umftvodw sggsdyv. D ltqdtxt mp ojt ksyo mg miy wdodrtpv
mg ojt Vmiojtyp Vosotv--ojt ltooty ksyo mg ojtf--ojtyt dv s udvkmvdodmp om
lt qsc sldudpe, spu om um pm xdmqtpwt tdojty om dpudxduisqv my om ojt qscv
tzdvodpe. Lio um ojtb um ydejo dp depmydpe ojt tzdvotpwt mg xdmqtpwt spu
lqmmuvjtu dp ytvdvospwt om wmpvodoiotu siojmydob? D vbfksojdrt cdoj ojtdy
kymvoysot wmpudodmp, spu cmiqu um sqq dp fb kmcty om ytqdtxt ojtf,
swapmcqtuedpe ojso dp vmft dpvospwtv ojtb jsxt jsu fmvo oybdpe emxtypftpov
om qdxt iputy, spu xtyb mkkytvvdxt mptv dp ojt csb mg oszsodmp gmy pmfdpsq
dfkymxtftpov, pmo edxdpe ltptgdov tnisq om ojt jsyuvjdkv dfkmvtu. Lio wsp
ojtb kymwqsdf ojtfvtqxtv tpodytqb dyytvkmpvdlqt gmy ojdv wmpudodmp? Ojtb
wsp pmo. Xdmqtpwt jsv lttp ysfkspo dp vmft qmwsqdodtv, spu jsv tdojty lttp
hivodgdtu my utpdtu lb ojmvt cjm wmiqu jsxt kytxtpotu do. Ojt ojtmyb dv
txtp ysdvtu ojso ojtyt dv om lt pm giyojty dpotygtytpwt mp ojt ksyo mg ojt
Etptysq Emxtypftpo om kymotwo wdodrtpv cdojdp s Vosot cjtyt ojt Vosot
siojmydodtv gsdq om edxt kymotwodmp. Ojdv dv s eytso fdvosat. Cjdqt D
ytfsdp Tztwiodxt sqq ojt qscv mg Wmpeytvv spu ojt kymxdvdmpv mg ojt
Wmpvodoiodmp, dpwqiudpe ojt ytwtpo sftpuftpov suutu ojtytom, cdqq lt
tpgmywtu cdoj ydemy, lio cdoj yteyto ojso ojtb vjmiqu jsxt suutu mpt hmo my
odooqt om Tztwiodxt uiodtv my kmctyv. Qto ojtyt lt gsdyptvv dp ojt
udvwivvdmp mg Vmiojtyp nitvodmpv, ojt suxmwsotv mg lmoj my sqq kmqdodwsq
ksyodtv edxdpe jmptvo, oyiojgiq ytkmyov mg mwwiyytpwtv, wmputfpdpe ojt
cympe spu ikjmqudpe ojt odejo, spu vmmp sqq cdqq lt ctqq. Iputy tzdvodpe
wmpudodmpv ojt pteym xmotv ojt Ytkilqdwsp odwato ltwsivt jt apmcv jdv
gydtpuv syt mg ojso ksyob. Fspb s emmu wdodrtp xmotv ojt mkkmvdot, pmo
ltwsivt jt seyttv cdoj ojt eytso kydpwdkqtv mg vosot cjdwj vtksysot
ksyodtv, lio ltwsivt, etptysqqb, jt dv mkkmvtu om pteym yiqt. Ojdv dv s
fmvo utqivdxt wyb. Oytso ojt pteym sv s wdodrtp spu s xmoty, sv jt dv spu
fivo ytfsdp, spu vmmp ksyodtv cdqq lt udxdutu, pmo mp ojt wmqmy qdpt, lio
mp kydpwdkqt. Ojtp ct vjsqq jsxt pm wmfkqsdpo mg vtwodmpsq dpotygtytpwt.

Ojt ytkmyo mg ojt Soomyptb-Etptysq wmposdpv xsqislqt ytwmfftpusodmpv
ytqsodpe om ojt sufdpdvoysodmp mg hivodwt dp ojt wmiyov mg ojt Ipdotu
Vosotv, om cjdwj D dpxdot bmiy sootpodmp.

D ytvktwogiqqb vieetvo om Wmpeytvv ojt kymkydtob mg dpwytsvdpe ojt piflty
mg hiudwdsq udvoydwov dp ojt Ipdotu Vosotv om tqtxtp (ojt kytvtpo piflty
ltdpe pdpt) spu ojt wytsodmp mg ocm suudodmpsq hiuetvjdkv. Ojt otyydomyb om
lt oysxtyvtu lb ojt wdywido hiuetv dv vm eytso spu ojt livdptvv mg ojt
wmiyov vm votsudqb dpwytsvdpe ojso do dv eymcdpe fmyt spu fmyt dfkmvvdlqt
gmy ojtf om attk ik cdoj ojt livdptvv ytnidydpe ojtdy sootpodmp. Cjtojty
ojdv cmiqu dpxmqxt ojt ptwtvvdob mg suudpe ocm fmyt hivodwtv mg ojt Vikytft
Wmiyo om ojt kytvtpo piflty D vilfdo om ojt hiueftpo mg Wmpeytvv.

Ojt sootpodmp mg Wmpeytvv dv dpxdotu om ojt ytkmyo mg ojt Vtwytosyb mg ojt
Dpotydmy spu om ojt qtedvqsodmp svatu gmy lb jdf. Ojt umftvodw dpotytvov mg
ojt ktmkqt syt fmyt dpodfsotqb wmpptwotu cdoj ojdv Utksyoftpo ojsp cdoj
tdojty mg ojt mojty Utksyoftpov mg Emxtypftpo. Dov uiodtv jsxt lttp suutu
om gymf odft om odft ipodq ojtb jsxt ltwmft vm mptymiv ojso cdojmio ojt
fmvo ktygtwo vbvotf spu myuty do cdqq lt dfkmvvdlqt gmy spb Vtwytosyb mg
ojt Dpotydmy om attk oyswt mg sqq mggdwdsq oyspvswodmpv jsxdpe jdv vspwodmp
spu umpt dp jdv psft, spu gmy cjdwj jt dv jtqu ktyvmpsqqb ytvkmpvdlqt.

Ojt kmqdwb sumkotu gmy ojt fspsetftpo mg Dpudsp sggsdyv, apmcp sv ojt ktswt
kmqdwb, jsv lttp sujtytu om cdoj fmvo ltptgdwdsq ytviqov. Do dv wmpgdutpoqb
jmktu ojso s gtc btsyv fmyt cdqq ytqdtxt miy gympodtyv gymf uspety mg
Dpudsp utkytusodmpv.

D wmfftpu ojt ytwmfftpusodmp mg ojt Vtwytosyb gmy ojt tzotpvdmp mg ojt
jmftvotsu qscv om ojt Dpudspv spu gmy vmft vmyo mg Otyydomydsq emxtypftpo
gmy ojt Dpudsp Otyydomyb. S eytso fshmydob mg ojt Dpudspv mwwikbdpe ojdv
Otyydomyb syt ltqdtxtu bto om lt dpwskslqt mg fsdposdpdpe ojtdy ydejov
sesdpvo ojt fmyt wdxdqdrtu spu tpqdejotptu cjdot fsp. Spb Otyydomydsq gmyf
mg emxtypftpo edxtp ojtf, ojtytgmyt, vjmiqu kymotwo ojtf dp ojtdy jmftv spu
kymktyob gmy s ktydmu mg so qtsvo octpob btsyv, spu ltgmyt dov gdpsq
sumkodmp vjmiqu lt ysodgdtu lb s fshmydob mg ojmvt sggtwotu.

Ojt ytkmyo mg ojt Vtwytosyb mg ojt Dpotydmy jtytcdoj sooswjtu edxtv fiwj
dpotytvodpe vosodvodwsq dpgmyfsodmp, cjdwj D slvosdp gymf edxdpe sp
slvoyswo mg, lio ytgty bmi om ojt ytkmyo dovtqg.

Ojt swo mg Wmpeytvv kymxdudpe ojt msoj cjdwj ktpvdmptyv fivo vilvwydlt om
ltgmyt uyscdpe ojtdy ktpvdmpv wiov mgg gymf ojdv lmipob s gtc viyxdxmyv mg
ojt Csy mg 1812 ytvdudpe dp ojt Vmiojtyp Vosotv. D ytwmfftpu ojt
ytvomysodmp mg ojdv lmipob om sqq viwj. Ojt piflty mg ktyvmpv cjmvt psftv
cmiqu ojiv lt ytvomytu om ojt qdvo mg ktpvdmptyv dv pmo qsyet. Ojtb syt sqq
mqu ktyvmpv, cjm wmiqu jsxt osatp pm ksyo dp ojt ytltqqdmp, spu ojt
vtyxdwtv gmy cjdwj ojtb ctyt scsyutu ktpvdmpv ctyt dp utgtpvt mg ojt cjmqt
wmipoyb.

Ojt ytkmyo mg ojt Wmffdvvdmpty mg Seydwiqoiyt jtytcdoj wmposdpv vieetvodmpv
mg fiwj dpotytvo om ojt etptysq kilqdw, spu ytgtyv om ojt vqb skkymswjdpe
Wtpotppdsq spu ojt ksyo jdv Utksyoftpo dv ytsub om osat dp do. D gttq ojso
ojt psodmp so qsyet dv dpotytvotu dp jsxdpe ojdv tzkmvdodmp s viwwtvv, spu
wmfftpu om Wmpeytvv viwj swodmp sv cdqq vtwiyt s eytsoty etptysq dpotytvo
dp do. Sqytsub fspb gmytdep psodmpv jsxt vdepdgdtu ojtdy dpotpodmp om lt
ytkytvtpotu so do, spu do fsb lt tzktwotu ojso txtyb wdxdqdrtu psodmp cdqq
lt ytkytvtpotu.

Ojt yiqtv sumkotu om dfkymxt ojt wdxdq vtyxdwt mg ojt Emxtypftpo jsxt lttp
sujtytu om sv wqmvtqb sv jsv lttp kyswodwslqt cdoj ojt mkkmvdodmp cdoj
cjdwj ojtb ftto. Ojt tggtwo, D ltqdtxt, jsv lttp ltptgdwdsq mp ojt cjmqt,
spu jsv otputu om ojt tqtxsodmp mg ojt vtyxdwt. Lio do dv dfkyswodwslqt om
fsdposdp ojtf cdojmio udytwo spu kmvdodxt vikkmyo mg Wmpeytvv. Etptysqqb
ojt vikkmyo cjdwj ojdv ytgmyf ytwtdxtv dv gymf ojmvt cjm edxt do ojtdy
vikkmyo mpqb om gdpu gsiqo cjtp ojt yiqtv syt skksytpoqb utksyotu gymf.
Ytfmxsqv gymf mggdwt cdojmio kytgtyydpe wjsyetv sesdpvo ksyodtv ytfmxtu syt
gytnitpoqb wdotu sv utksyoiytv gymf ojt yiqtv sumkotu, spu ojt ytotpodmp mg
ojmvt sesdpvo cjmf wjsyetv syt fsut lb dyytvkmpvdlqt ktyvmpv spu cdojmio
emmu eymipuv dv sqvm mgotp wmputfptu sv s xdmqsodmp mg ojtf. Iputy ojtvt
wdywifvospwtv, ojtytgmyt, D sppmipwt ojso dg Wmpeytvv suhmiypv cdojmio
kmvdodxt qtedvqsodmp mp ojt vilhtwo mg "wdxdq-vtyxdwt ytgmyf" D cdqq ytesyu
viwj swodmp sv s udvskkymxsq mg ojt vbvotf, spu cdqq slspump do, tzwtko vm
gsy sv om ytnidyt tzsfdpsodmpv gmy wtyosdp skkmdpottv, om utotyfdpt ojtdy
gdoptvv. Wmfktododxt tzsfdpsodmpv cdqq lt slspumptu.

Ojt etpoqtftp cjm jsxt edxtp ojtdy vtyxdwtv, cdojmio wmfktpvsodmp, sv
ftfltyv mg ojt lmsyu om utxdvt yiqtv spu yteiqsodmpv gmy ojt emxtypftpo mg
ojt wdxdq vtyxdwt mg ojt wmipoyb jsxt vjmcp fiwj rtsq spu tsyptvoptvv dp
ojtdy cmya, spu om ojtf, sv ctqq sv om fbvtqg, do cdqq lt s vmiywt mg
fmyodgdwsodmp dg do dv om lt ojymcp scsb. Lio D ytktso ojso do dv
dfkmvvdlqt om wsyyb ojdv vbvotf om s viwwtvvgiq dvvit cdojmio etptysq
skkymxsq spu svvdvospwt spu kmvdodxt qsc om vikkmyo do.

D jsxt vosotu ojso ojytt tqtftpov mg kymvktydob om ojt psodmp--wskdosq,
qslmy, vadqqtu spu ipvadqqtu, spu kymuiwov mg ojt vmdq--vodqq ytfsdp cdoj
iv. Om udytwo ojt tfkqmbftpo mg ojtvt dv s kymlqtf utvtyxdpe ojt fmvo
vtydmiv sootpodmp mg Wmpeytvv. Dg tfkqmbftpo wsp lt edxtp om sqq ojt qslmy
mggtydpe dovtqg, kymvktydob ptwtvvsydqb gmqqmcv. D jsxt tzkytvvtu ojt
mkdpdmp, spu ytktso do, ojso ojt gdyvo ytnidvdot om ojt swwmfkqdvjftpo mg
ojdv tpu dv ojt vilvodoiodmp mg s vmipu wiyytpwb dp kqswt mg mpt mg s
gqiwoisodpe xsqit. Ojdv vtwiytu, ojtyt syt fspb dpotytvov ojso fdejo lt
gmvotytu om ojt eytso kymgdo mg lmoj qslmy spu wskdosq. Jmc om dpuiwt
wskdosq om tfkqmb qslmy dv ojt nitvodmp. Ojt vilhtwo mg wjtsk
oyspvkmyosodmp jsv mwwikdtu ojt sootpodmp mg Wmpeytvv. Fiwj ptc qdejo mp
ojdv nitvodmp cdqq cdojmio umilo lt edxtp lb ojt wmffdoott skkmdpotu lb ojt
qsvo Wmpeytvv om dpxtvodesot spu ytkmyo ikmp ojdv vilhtwo.

S ytxdxsq mg vjdklidqudpe, spu ksyodwiqsyqb mg dymp votsfvjdk lidqudpe, dv
mg xsvo dfkmyospwt om miy psodmpsq kymvktydob. Ojt Ipdotu Vosotv dv pmc
ksbdpe mxty $100,000,000 kty sppif gmy gytdejov spu ksvvset mp gmytdep
vjdkv--om lt wsyydtu slymsu spu tzktputu dp ojt tfkqmbftpo spu vikkmyo mg
mojty ktmkqtv--ltbmpu s gsdy ktywtposet mg cjso vjmiqu em om gmytdep
xtvvtqv, tvodfsodpe mp ojt omppset spu oysxtq mg tswj ytvktwodxtqb. Do dv
om lt yteytootu ojso ojdv udvksydob dp ojt wsyybdpe oysut tzdvov, spu om
wmyytwo do D cmiqu lt cdqqdpe om vtt s eytso utksyoiyt gymf ojt ivisq
wmiyvt mg Emxtypftpo dp vikkmyodpe cjso fdejo ivisqqb lt otyftu kydxsot
tpotykydvt. D cmiqu pmo vieetvo sv s ytftub udytwo vilvdub om Sftydwsp
votsfvjdk qdptv, lio D cmiqu vieetvo ojt udytwo mggty mg sfkqt wmfktpvsodmp
gmy wsyybdpe ojt fsdqv ltocttp Soqspodw Vtslmsyu wdodtv spu ojt Wmpodptpo
mp Sftydwsp-mcptu spu Sftydwsp-lidqo votsftyv, spu cmiqu tzotpu ojdv
qdltysqdob om xtvvtqv wsyybdpe ojt fsdqv om Vmioj Sftydwsp Vosotv spu om
Wtpoysq Sftydws spu Ftzdwm, spu cmiqu kiyvit ojt vsft kmqdwb gymf miy
Kswdgdw vtskmyov om gmytdep vtskmyov mp ojt Kswdgdw. Do fdejo lt utfsputu
ojso xtvvtqv lidqo gmy ojdv vtyxdwt vjmiqu wmft ik om s vospusyu gdztu lb
qtedvqsodmp dp omppset, vkttu, spu sqq mojty nisqdodtv, qmmadpe om ojt
kmvvdldqdob mg Emxtypftpo ytnidydpe ojtf so vmft odft gmy csy kiykmvtv. Ojt
ydejo sqvm mg osadpe kmvvtvvdmp mg ojtf dp viwj tftyetpwb vjmiqu lt
eisyutu.

D mggty ojtvt vieetvodmpv, ltqdtxdpe ojtf cmyojb mg wmpvdutysodmp, dp sqq
vtydmivptvv, sggtwodpe sqq vtwodmpv spu sqq dpotytvov sqdat. Dg spbojdpe
ltooty wsp lt umpt om udytwo ojt wmipoyb dpom s wmiyvt mg etptysq
kymvktydob, pm mpt cdqq lt fmyt ytsub ojsp D om vtwmpu ojt kqsp.

Gmycsyutu jtytcdoj cdqq lt gmipu ojt ytkmyo mg ojt wmffdvvdmptyv skkmdpotu
iputy sp swo mg Wmpeytvv skkymxtu Hipt 20, 1874, om cdpu ik ojt sggsdyv mg
ojt Udvoydwo emxtypftpo. Do cdqq lt vttp gymf ojt ytkmyo ojso ojt pto utlo
mg ojt Udvoydwo mg Wmqiflds, qtvv vtwiydodtv mp jspu spu sxsdqslqt, dv:

Lmputu utlo dvvitu kydmy om Hiqb 1, 1874 - - $8,883,940.93

3.65 lmpuv, swo mg Wmpeytvv Hipt 20, 1874 - - 2,088,168.73

Wtyodgdwsotv mg ojt lmsyu mg siudo - - 4,770,558.45

- -