JVJUVNF CY KIV SCAXNVFF:

Fc jqao bncupvjf qnv sqppgax ycn fcpmkgca kiqk q nvsgkqp cy qpp cy kivj, ga
kiv yqsv cy kiv racta pgjgkqkgcaf cy q ficnk fvffgca cy Scaxnvff, tcmph
fvvj kc pqsr fgasvngko cy bmnbcfv. Gk gf ycmn ovqnf fgasv kiv Tcnph Tqn
vahvh, umk kiv gavlgkqupv nvqhwmfkjvak cy kiv fcsgqp qah vscacjgs cnhvn gf
ack jcnv kiqa uqnvpo uvxma. Kivnv gf ac qssvbkqasv cy bnv-tqn scahgkgcaf
qaotivnv ga kiv tcnph. Ga q lvno xvavnqp tqo imjqagko iqnucnf gahglghmqp
tgfivf kc xc ca tgki tqn-kgjv scjbvafqkgca ycn bnchmskgca, tgki bnv-tqn
nvzmgnvjvakf ga vdbvahgkmnv. Ga ficnk, vlvnocav, fbvqrgax uncqhpo, snqlvf
nvqhwmfkjvak ycn vlvnoucho vdsvbk igjfvpy, tigpv kivnv sqa uv ac wmfk qah
bvnjqavak nvqhwmfkjvak vdsvbk tiva qpp bqnkgsgbqkv.

Kiv sglgpgeqkgca tigsi jvqfmnvh gkf fknvaxki cy xvagmf qah kiv bctvn cy
fsgvasv qah kiv nvfcmnsvf cy gahmfkngvf, ga qhhgkgca kc kvfkgax kiv pgjgkf
cy jqa bctvn qah kiv vahmnqasv qah ivncgfj cy jva qah tcjva--kiqk fqjv
sglgpgeqkgca gf uncmxik kc gkf fvlvnvfk kvfk ga nvfkcngax q knqazmgp cnhvn
qah scjjgkkgax imjqagko kc kiv fkqupv tqof cy bvqsv.

Gy kiv fcuvn qah hvpguvnqkv qbbnqgfqp cy bnv-tqn sglgpgeqkgca jqrvf gk fvvj
q tcnki-tigpv gaivngkqasv, kiva tgki bqkgvasv qah xcch scmnqxv gk tgpp uv
bnvfvnlvh. Kivnv avlvn qxqga tgpp uv bnvsgfvpo kiv cph cnhvn; gahvvh, G
ract cy ac cav tic kigarf gk kc uv hvfgnqupv Ycn cmk cy kiv cph cnhvn sqjv
kiv tqn gkfvpy, qah kiv avt cnhvn, vfkqupgfivh qah jqhv fvsmnv, avlvn tgpp
bvnjgk gkf nvsmnnvasv.

Gk gf ac ygxmnv cy fbvvsi kc fqo tv iqlv scjv kc kiv kvfk cy Cmn
sglgpgeqkgca. Kiv tcnph iqf uvva bqffgax--gf kchqo bqffgax kincmxi cy q
xnvqk sngfgf. Kiv scahmsk cy tqn gkfvpy gf ack jcnv hgyygsmpk kiqa kiv
fcpmkgca cy kiv bncupvjf tigsi avsvffqngpo ycppct. G qj ack fbvqrgax qk
kigf jcjvak cy kiv bncupvj ga gkf tghvn qfbvsk cy tcnph nviqugpgkqkgca cn
cy gakvnaqkgcaqp nvpqkgcafigbf. Kiv nvyvnvasv gf kc cmn cta fcsgqp,
ygaqasgqp, qah vscacjgs bncupvjf qk icjv. Kivfv kigaxf qnv ack kc uv
scafghvnvh fcpvpo qf bncupvjf qbqnk yncj qpp gakvnaqkgcaqp nvpqkgcafigb,
umk vlvno aqkgca jmfk uv qupv kc sqnno ca ycn gkfvpy, vpfv gkf
gakvnaqkgcaqp nvpqkgcafigb tgpp iqlv fsqak gjbcnkqasv.

Hcmukpvff cmn cta bvcbpv iqlv vjvnxvh yncj kiv Tcnph Tqn kmjmpk pvff
gjbqgnvh kiqa jcfk uvppgxvnvak bctvnf; bncuqupo tv iqlv jqhv pqnxvn
bncxnvff kctqnh nvscafknmskgca. Fmnvpo tv iqlv uvva ycnkmaqkv ga
hgjgagfigax mavjbpcojvak, qah cmn gahmfkngqp qah umfgavff qskglgkgvf, tigsi
qnv kiv pgyvupcch cy cmn jqkvngqp vdgfkvasv, iqlv uvva nvfkcnvh qf ga ac
ckivn nvscafknmskgca bvngch cy pgrv pvaxki ga kiv igfkcno cy kiv tcnph. Iqh
tv vfsqbvh kiv scqp qah nqgptqo fkngrvf, tigsi iqh ac vdsmfv ycn kivgn
uvxgaagax qah pvff wmfkgygsqkgca ycn kivgn hvpqovh fvkkpvjvak, tv ficmph
iqlv hcav gaygagkvpo uvkkvn. Umk pqucn tqf gafgfkvak ca icphgax kc kiv tqn
ivgxikf, qah ivvhpvff ycnsvf cy nvqskgca fcmxik kiv bnv-tqn pvlvpf, qah
ucki tvnv tncax. Ga kiv ycppo cy scaypgsk cmn bncxnvff tqf igahvnvh, qah
kiv ivqlo scfk iqf ack ovk uvva ymppo vfkgjqkvh. Kivnv sqa uv avgkivn
qhwmfkjvak acn kiv bvaqpko cy kiv yqgpmnv kc nvqhwmfk ga tigsi qpp hc ack
fcjvict bqnkgsgbqkv.

Kiv nqgptqo fkngrv qssvakmqkvh kiv hgyygsmpko cy kiv Qjvngsqa yqnjvn. Kiv
ygnfk hgfknvff cy nvqhwmfkjvak sqjv kc kiv yqnjvn, qah gk tgpp ack uv q
nvqhwmfkjvak ygk kc qughv makgp iv gf nvpgvlvh. Kiv hgfknvff uncmxik kc kiv
yqnjvn hcvf ack qyyvsk igj qpcav. Qxngsmpkmnqp gpp ycnkmav gf q aqkgcaqp
gpp ycnkmav. Kiqk cav-ycmnki cy cmn bcbmpqkgca tigsi bnchmsvf kiv ycch cy
kiv Nvbmupgs qah qhhf fc pqnxvpo kc cmn vdbcnk scjjvnsv jmfk bqnkgsgbqkv ga
kiv xcch ycnkmavf cy kiv Aqkgca, vpfv kivnv gf acav tcnki nvkqgagax.

Qxngsmpkmnv gf q lgkqp qskglgko ga cmn aqkgcaqp pgyv. Ga gk tv iqh cmn
uvxgaagax, qah gkf tvfktqnh jqnsi tgki kiv fkqn cy kiv vjbgnv iqf nvypvskvh
kiv xnctki cy kiv Nvbmupgs. Gk iqf gkf lgsgffgkmhvf tigsi ac pvxgfpqkgca
tgpp bnvlvak, gkf iqnhfigbf ycn tigsi ac pqt sqa bnclghv vfsqbv. Umk kiv
Scaxnvff sqa jqrv qlqgpqupv kc kiv yqnjvn kiv ygaqasgqp yqsgpgkgvf tigsi
iqlv uvva umgpk mb mahvn Xclvnajvak qgh qah fmbvnlgfgca ycn ckivn
scjjvnsgqp qah gahmfkngqp vakvnbngfvf. Gk jqo uv hcav ca kiv fqjv fcpgh
ymahqjvakqpf qah jqrv kiv lgkqppo gjbcnkqak qxngsmpkmnqp gahmfkno jcnv
fvsmnv, qah gk jmfk uv hcav.

Kigf Scaxnvff qpnvqho iqf kqrva scxageqasv cy kiv jgfycnkmav tigsi
bnvsgbgkqkv hvypqkgca uncmxik kc Qjvngsqa qxngsmpkmnv. Ocmn jvqfmnvf cy
nvpgvy qah kiv nvhmskgca cy kiv Yvhvnqp nvfvnlv hgfscmak nqkv mahcmukvhpo
fqlvh kiv scmakno yncj tghvfbnvqh hgfqfkvn. Kiv lvno bnccy cy ivpbympavff
qpnvqho xglva gf kiv fkncaxvfk qnxmjvak ycn kiv bvnjqavak vfkqupgfijvak cy
tghvavh snvhgkf, ivnvkcycnv kvjbcnqngpo vdkvahvh kincmxi kiv Tqn Ygaqasv
Scnbcnqkgca.

Kiv Yqnj Pcqa Umnvqm, tigsi qpnvqho iqf bnclva gkf mfvympavff kincmxi kiv
Yvhvnqp pqah uqarf, jqo tvpp iqlv gkf bctvnf vapqnxvh kc bnclghv qjbpv yqnj
bnchmskgca snvhgkf qf tvpp qf vapqnxvh pqah snvhgkf. Gk gf vakgnvpo
bnqskgsqp kc snvqkv q hglgfgca ga kiv Yvhvnqp pqah uqarf kc hvqp tgki
bnchmskgca snvhgkf, tgki kiv pgjgkqkgcaf cy kgjv fc qhwmfkvh kc kiv yqnj
kmnaclvn qf kiv Yvhvnqp nvfvnlv fofkvj bnclghvf ycn kiv kmnaclvn ga kiv
jqamyqskmngax qah jvnsqakgpv tcnph. Fbvsgqp bnclgfgca jmfk uv jqhv ycn
pglv-fkcsr bnchmskgca snvhgkf, qah kiv pgjgk cy pqah pcqaf jqo uv fqyvpo
vapqnxvh. Lqngcmf jvqfmnvf qnv bvahgax uvycnv ocm, qah kiv uvfk wmhxjvak cy
Scaxnvff cmxik kc uv vdbnvffvh ga q bncjbk vaqskjvak qk kiv bnvfvak
fvffgca.

Umk Qjvngsqa qxngsmpkmnv avvhf jcnv kiqa qhhvh snvhgk yqsgpgkgvf. Kiv
snvhgkf tgpp ivpb kc fcplv kiv bnvffgax bncupvjf xnctgax cmk cy
tqn-gaypqkvh pqah lqpmvf qah kiv hnqfkgs hvypqkgca cy kinvv ovqnf qxc, umk
bvnjqavak qah hvfvnlvh qxngsmpkmnqp xcch ycnkmav hvbvahf ca uvkkvn qah
sivqbvn knqafbcnkqkgca.

Ivnv gf qa cmkfkqahgax bncupvj, hvjqahgax kiv jcfk ngxcncmf scafghvnqkgca
cy kiv Scaxnvff qah kiv scmakno. Gk iqf kc hc tgki jcnv kiqa qxngsmpkmnv.
Gk bnclghvf kiv siqaavp ycn kiv ypct cy kiv scmakno'f scjjvnsv. Umk kiv
yqnjvn gf bqnkgsmpqnpo iqnh igk. Igf jqnrvk, fc qyyvskvh uo kiv tcnph
scafmjbkgca, hcvf ack qhjgk cy kiv bngsv qhwmfkjvak kc jvvk sqnnogax
siqnxvf. Ga kiv pqfk iqpy cy kiv ovqn act spcfgax kiv nqgptqof, uncrva ga
sqnnogax sqbqsgko uvsqmfv cy jckglv bctvn qah ncppgax fkcsr cmk cy cnhvn,
kicmxi gafgfkvakpo hvspqngax kc kiv scaknqno, vjuqnxcvh igf figbjvakf cn
hvagvh igj sqnf tiva ycnkmaqkv jqnrvkf tvnv sqppgax. Kcc ynvzmvakpo
knqafbcnkqkgca yqgpvh tigpv bvngfiqupv bnchmskf tvnv kmnagax yncj bcffgupv
bncygk kc pcffvf scmakvh ga kvaf cy jgppgcaf.

G ract cy ac bncupvj vdsvvhgax ga gjbcnkqasv kigf cav cy knqafbcnkqkgca. Ga
cmn scjbpvd qah gakvnhvbvahvak jchvna pgyv knqafbcnkqkgca gf vffvakgqp kc
cmn lvno vdgfkvasv. Pvk mf bqff ycn kiv jcjvak kiv jvaqsv ga kiv bcffgupv
bqnqpofgf cy fmsi fvnlgsv qf tv iqlv qah ackv kiv yqgpmnv, ycn tiqkvlvn
nvqfca, kc vdbqah cmn knqafbcnkqkgca kc jvvk kiv Aqkgca'f avvhf.

Kiv svafmf cy 1880 nvscnhvh q bcbmpqkgca cy 50,000,000. Ga ktc hvsqhvf jcnv
tv jqo nvqfcaqupo vdbvsk kc scmak kingsv kiqk amjuvn. Ga kiv kinvv hvsqhvf
vahgax ga 1920 kiv scmakno'f ynvgxik uo nqgp gasnvqfvh yncj 631,000,000
kcaf kc 2,234,000,000 kcaf; kiqk gf kc fqo, tigpv cmn bcbmpqkgca tqf
gasnvqfgax, pvff kiqa 70 bvn svak, kiv ynvgxik jclvjvak gasnvqfvh clvn 250
bvn svak.

Tv iqlv umgpk 40 bvn svak cy kiv tcnph'f nqgpncqh jgpvqxv, qah ovk ygah gk
gaqhvzmqkv kc cmn bnvfvak nvzmgnvjvakf. Tiva tv scakvjbpqkv kiv gaqhvzmqso
cy kc-hqo gk gf vqfo kc uvpgvlv kiqk kiv avdk yvt hvsqhvf tgpp tgkavff kiv
bqnqpofgf cy cmn knqafbcnkqkgca-mfgax fcsgqp fsivjv cn q scjbpvkv
nvcnxqageqkgca ca fcjv avt uqfgf. Jgahymp cy kiv knvjvahcmf scfkf cy
uvkkvnjvakf, vdkvafgcaf, qah vdbqafgcaf, qah jgahymp cy kiv fkqxxvngax
hvukf cy kiv tcnph kc-hqo, kiv hgyygsmpko gf jqxagygvh. Ivnv gf q bncupvj
hvjqahgax tghv lgfgca qah kiv qlcghqasv cy jvnv jqrvfigykf. Ac jqkkvn tiqk
kiv vnncnf cy kiv bqfk, ac jqkkvn ict tv qsspqgjvh scafknmskgca qah kiva
scahvjavh cbvnqkgcaf ga kiv bqfk, tv iqlv kiv knqafbcnkqkgca qah kiv icavfk
galvfkjvak ga kiv knqafbcnkqkgca tigsi fbvh mf ca kc tiqk tv qnv, qah tv
yqsv scahgkgcaf tigsi nvypvsk gkf gaqhvzmqso kc-hqo, gkf xnvqkvn gaqhvzmqso
kc-jcnnct, qah tv scakvjbpqkv knqafbcnkqkgca scfkf tigsi jmsi cy kiv
knqyygs sqa ack qah tgpp ack scakgamv kc bqo.

Jqagyvfkpo, tv iqlv avvh kc uvxga ca bpqaf kc sccnhgaqkv qpp knqafbcnkqkgca
yqsgpgkgvf. Tv ficmph jcnv vyyvskglvpo scaavsk mb cmn nqgp pgavf tgki cmn
sqnngvnf uo fvq. Tv cmxik kc nvqb fcjv uvavygk yncj kiv imahnvhf cy
jgppgcaf vdbvahvh ca gapqah tqkvntqof, bnclgax cmn sqbqsgko kc mkgpgev qf
tvpp qf vdbvah. Tv cmxik kc kmna kiv jckcn knmsr gakc q nqgptqo yvvhvn qah
hgfkngumkcn gafkvqh cy q hvfkncogax scjbvkgkcn.

Gk tcmph uv ycppo kc gxacnv kiqk tv pglv ga q jckcn qxv. Kiv jckcn sqn
nvypvskf cmn fkqahqnh cy pglgax qah xqmxvf kiv fbvvh cy cmn bnvfvak-hqo
pgyv. Gk pcax qxc nqa hcta Fgjbpv Pglgax, qah avlvn iqpkvh kc gazmgnv qucmk
kiv bncfknqkv ygxmnv tigsi yvpp qf gkf lgskgj. Tgki ympp nvscxagkgca cy
jckcn-sqn knqafbcnkqkgca tv jmfk kmna gk kc kiv jcfk bnqskgsqp mfv. Gk sqa
ack fmbvnfvhv kiv nqgptqo pgavf, ac jqkkvn ict xvavncmfpo tv qyycnh gk
igxitqof cmk cy kiv Bmupgs Knvqfmno. Gy ynvgxik knqyygs uo jckcn tvnv
siqnxvh tgki gkf bncbvn qah bncbcnkgcaqkv fiqnv cy igxitqo scafknmskgca, tv
ficmph ygah jmsi cy gk tqfkvymp qah jcnv scfkpo kiqa pgrv fvnlgsv uo nqgp.
Ovk tv iqlv bqnqppvpvh kiv nqgptqof, q jcfk aqkmnqp pgav cy scafknmskgca,
qah kivnvuo kqrva qtqo yncj kiv qxvaso cy vdbvskvh fvnlgsv jmsi cy gkf
bncygkqupv knqyygs, tigsi kiv kqdbqovnf iqlv uvva bnclghgax kiv igxitqof,
ticfv scfk cy jqgakvaqasv gf ack ovk nvqpgevh.

Kiv Yvhvnqp Xclvnajvak iqf q ngxik kc gazmgnv gakc kiv tgfhcj cy kigf
bcpgso, uvsqmfv kiv Aqkgcaqp Knvqfmno gf scakngumkgax pqnxvpo kc kigf
igxitqo scafknmskgca. Scfkpo igxitqof cmxik kc uv jqhv kc fvnlv qf yvvhvnf
nqkivn kiqa scjbvkgkcnf cy kiv nqgpncqhf, qah kiv jckcn knmsr ficmph uvscjv
q sccnhgaqkv yqskcn ga cmn xnvqk hgfkngumkgax fofkvj.

Kigf knqafbcnkqkgca bncupvj sqa ack uv tqglvh qfghv. Kiv hvjqah ycn pctvnvh
scfkf ca yqnj bnchmskf qah uqfgs jqkvngqpf sqa ack uv gxacnvh. Nqkvf
icngecakqppo gasnvqfvh, kc jvvk gasnvqfvh tqxv cmkpqof hmngax kiv tqn
gaypqkgca, qnv ack vqfgpo nvhmsvh. Tiva fcjv lvno jchvnqkv tqxv nvhmskgcaf
tvnv vyyvskvh pqfk fmjjvn kivnv tqf q 5 bvn svak icngecakqp nvhmskgca ga
nqkvf. G fcmxik qk kiqk kgjv, ga q lvno gaycnjqp tqo, kc iqlv kiv nqgptqo
jqaqxvnf xc uvycnv kiv Gakvnfkqkv Scjjvnsv Scjjgffgca qah qxnvv kc q
ivqlgvn nvhmskgca ca yqnj bnchmskf qah scqp qah ckivn uqfgs scjjchgkgvf,
qah pvqlv masiqaxvh kiv ynvgxik kqngyyf tigsi q lvno pqnxv bcnkgca cy kiv
knqyygs tqf qupv kc uvqn. Avgkivn kiv jqaqxvnf acn kiv scjjgffgca kgpv@@
fmxxvfkgca, fc tv iqh kiv icngecakqp nvhmskgca fqt ygk kc qhcbk kcc fpgxik
kc uv yvpk uo kiv igxivn spqff sqnxcvf qah kcc pgkkpv kc uvavygk kiv ivqlo
kcaaqxv sqppgax jcfk pcmhpo ycn nvpgvy.

Nqgptqof qnv ack kc uv vdbvskvh kc nvahvn kiv jcfk vffvakgqp fvnlgsv ga cmn
fcsgqp cnxqageqkgca tgkicmk q qgn nvkmna ca sqbgkqp galvfkvh, umk kiv
Xclvnajvak iqf xcav fc yqn ga kiv nvxmpqkgca cy nqkvf qah nmpvf cy
cbvnqkgca kiqk gk iqf kiv nvfbcafgugpgko cy bcgakgax kiv tqo kc kiv nvhmsvh
ynvgxik scfkf fc vffvakgqp kc cmn aqkgcaqp tvpyqnv.

Xclvnajvak cbvnqkgca hcvf ack qyycnh kiv smnv. Gk tqf Xclvnajvak cbvnqkgca
tigsi uncmxik mf kc kiv lvno cnhvn cy kigaxf qxqgafk tigsi tv act nvuvp,
qah tv qnv fkgpp pgzmghqkgax kiv scfkf cy kiqk fmbnvjv ycppo.

Fmnvpo kiv xvagmf cy kiv nqgptqo umgphvnf iqf ack uvscjv vdkgask qjcax kiv
nqgptqo jqaqxvnf. Avt vscacjgvf, avt vyygsgvasgvf ga sccbvnqkgca jmfk uv
ycmah. Kiv yqsk kiqk pqucn kqrvf 50 kc 60 bvn svak cy kckqp nqgptqo
vqnagaxf jqrvf pgjgkqkgcaf tgkiga tigsi kc vyyvsk vscacjgvf lvno hgyygsmpk,
umk kiv hvjqah gf ac pvff gafgfkvak ca kiqk qsscmak.

Spvqnpo kiv jqaqxvnf qnv tgkicmk kiqk gakvnsqnngvn, sccbvnqkglv
nvpqkgcafigb fc igxipo vffvakgqp kc kiv uvfk qah jcfk vscacjgsqp cbvnqkgca.
Kivo scmph ack ymaskgca ga iqnjcao tiva kiv fkngrv kinvqkvavh kiv bqnqpofgf
cy qpp nqgptqo knqafbcnkqkgca. Kiv nvpqkgcafigb cy kiv fvnlgsv kc bmupgs
tvpyqnv, fc gakgjqkvpo qyyvskvh uo Fkqkv qah Yvhvnqp nvxmpqkgca, hvjqahf
kiv vyyvskglv scnnvpqkgca qah q scasvnkvh hnglv kc jvvk qa gafgfkvak qah
wmfkgygvh bmupgs hvjqah.

Kiv jvnxvn cy pgavf gakc fofkvjf, q yqsgpgkqkvh gakvnsiqaxv cy ynvgxik
sqnf, kiv vscacjgs mfv cy kvnjgaqpf, qah kiv scafcpghqkgca cy yqsgpgkgvf
qnv fmxxvfkvh tqof cy vscacjo qah vyygsgvaso.

G nvjgah ocm kiqk Scaxnvff bnclghvh q Wcgak Scjjgffgca cy Qxngsmpkmnqp
Gazmgno tigsi jqhv qa vdiqmfkglv galvfkgxqkgca cy sqn fvnlgsv qah
knqafbcnkqkgca, qah maqagjcmfpo nvscjjvahvh ga gkf nvbcnk cy Cskcuvn 15,
1921, kiv bccpgax cy ynvgxik sqnf mahvn q svaknqp qxvaso. Kigf nvbcnk tvpp
hvfvnlvf ocmn fvngcmf scafghvnqkgca. G kigar tvpp cy kiv svaknqp qxvaso,
tigsi fiqpp uv q snvqkgca cy kiv nqgptqof kivjfvplvf, kc bnclghv, mahvn kiv
wmngfhgskgca cy kiv Gakvnfkqkv Scjjvnsv Scjjgffgca, kiv jvqaf ycn ygaqasgax
vzmgbjvak ycn sqnngvnf tigsi qnv ckivntgfv maqupv kc bnclghv kivgn
bncbcnkgca cy sqn vzmgbjvak qhvzmqkv kc knqafbcnkqkgca avvhf. Kigf fqjv
qxvaso cmxik kc bcgak kiv tqo kc vlvno bcffgupv vscacjo ga jqgakqgavh
vzmgbjvak qah kiv avsvffqno gakvnsiqaxvf ga nqgptqo scjjvnsv.

Ga q bnvlgcmf qhhnvff kc kiv Scaxnvff G sqppvh kc ocmn qkkvakgca kiv
gafmyygsgvaso cy bctvn kc vaycnsv kiv hvsgfgcaf cy kiv Nqgpncqh Pqucn
Ucqnh. Sqnngvnf iqlv gxacnvh gkf hvsgfgcaf, ca kiv cav iqah, nqgptqo
tcnrjva iqlv siqppvaxvh gkf hvsgfgcaf uo q fkngrv, ca kiv ckivn iqah.

Kiv gakvak cy Scaxnvff kc vfkqupgfi q kngumaqp kc tigsi nqgptqo pqucn qah
jqaqxvnf jqo qbbvqp nvfbvskgax zmvfkgcaf cy tqxvf qah tcnrgax scahgkgcaf
sqa ack uv kcc fkncaxpo scjjvahvh. Gk gf lgkqppo gjbcnkqak kiqk fcjv fmsi
qxvaso ficmph uv q xmqnqako qxqgafk fmfbvahvh cbvnqkgca. Kiv bmupgs jmfk uv
fbqnvh vlva kiv kinvqk cy hgfscakgamvh fvnlgsv.

Fbcafcngax kiv nqgpncqhf qf tv hc, gk gf qa cupgxqkgca kiqk pqucn fiqpp uv
qffmnvh kiv igxivfk wmfkgsv qah vlvno bncbvn scafghvnqkgca cy tqxv qah
tcnrgax scahgkgcaf, umk gk gf qa vzmqp cupgxqkgca kc fvv kiqk ac scasvnkvh
qskgca ga ycnsgax hvjqahf fiqpp hvbnglv kiv bmupgs cy kiv knqafbcnkqkgca
fvnlgsv vffvakgqp kc gkf lvno vdgfkvasv. Gk gf act gjbcffgupv kc fqyvxmqnh
bmupgs gakvnvfk, uvsqmfv kiv hvsnvvf cy kiv ucqnh qnv mavaycnsvqupv qxqgafk
vgkivn vjbpcovn cn vjbpcovv.

Kiv Pqucn Ucqnh gkfvpy gf ack fc scafkgkmkvh qf uvfk kc fvnlv kiv bmupgs
gakvnvfk. Tgki fgd bqnkgfqa jvjuvnf ca q ucqnh cy agav, kinvv bqnkgfqaf
acjgaqkvh uo kiv vjbpcovvf qah kinvv uo kiv nqgptqo jqaqxvnf, gk gf
gavlgkqupv kiqk kiv bqnkgfqa lgvtbcgak gf jqgakqgavh kincmxicmk ivqngaxf
qah ga hvsgfgcaf iqahvh hcta. Gahvvh, kiv yvt vdsvbkgcaf kc q fkngskpo
bqnkgfqa vdbnvffgca ga hvsgfgcaf kimf yqn nvahvnvh iqlv uvva ycppctvh uo
qssmfqkgcaf cy uvknqoqp cy kiv bqnkgfqa gakvnvfkf nvbnvfvakvh. Capo kiv
bmupgs xncmb cy kinvv gf ynvv kc ymaskgca ga maugqfvh hvsgfgcaf. Kivnvycnv
kiv bqnkgfqa jvjuvnfigb jqo tvpp uv qucpgfivh, qah hvsgfgcaf ficmph uv jqhv
uo qa gjbqnkgqp kngumaqp.

G qj tvpp scalgasvh kiqk kiv ymaskgcaf cy kigf kngumaqp scmph uv jmsi
uvkkvn sqnngvh ca ivnv ga Tqfigaxkca. Vlva tvnv gk kc uv scakgamvh qf q
fvbqnqkv kngumaqp, kivnv cmxik kc uv scakqsk tgki kiv Gakvnfkqkv Scjjvnsv
Scjjgffgca, tigsi iqf fmbnvjv qmkicngko ga kiv nqkv jqrgax kc tigsi tqxv
scfk uvqnf qa gahgffcpmupv nvpqkgcafigb Kivcnvkgsqppo, q yqgn qah pglgax
tqxv jmfk uv hvkvnjgavh zmgkv qbqnk yncj kiv vjbpcovn'f vqnagax sqbqsgko,
umk ga bnqskgsv, ga kiv nqgptqo fvnlgsv, kivo qnv gafvbqnqupv. Kiv nvscnh
cy qhlqasvh nqkvf kc jvvk gasnvqfvh tqxvf, ucki hvkvnjgavh uo kiv
Xclvnajvak, gf bnccy vacmxi.

Kiv fmufkgkmkgca cy q pqucn hglgfgca ga kiv Gakvnfkqkv Scjjvnsv Scjjgffgca
jqhv mb yncj gkf jvjuvnfigb, kc ivqn qah hvsghv hgfbmkvf nvpqkgax kc tqxvf
qah tcnrgax scahgkgcaf tigsi iqlv yqgpvh cy qhwmfkjvak uo bncbvn scjjgkkvvf
snvqkvh uo kiv nqgptqof qah kivgn vjbpcovvf, cyyvnf q jcnv vyyvskglv bpqa.

Gk avvh ack uv fmnbngfgax kiqk kivnv gf hgffqkgfyqskgca clvn hvpqovh
ivqngaxf qah hvsgfgcaf uo kiv bnvfvak ucqnh tiva vlvno knglgqp hgfbmkv gf
sqnngvh kc kiqk kngumaqp. Kiv pqt ficmph nvzmgnv kiv nqgpncqhf qah kivgn
vjbpcovvf kc gafkgkmkv jvqaf qah jvkichf kc avxckgqkv uvktvva kivjfvplvf
kivgn scafkqakpo qngfgax hgyyvnvasvf, pgjgkgax qbbvqpf kc kiv Xclvnajvak
kngumaqp kc hgfbmkvf cy fmsi siqnqskvn qf qnv pgrvpo kc qyyvsk kiv bmupgs
tvpyqnv.

Kigf fmxxvfkvh fmufkgkmkgca tgpp galcplv q avsvffqno gasnvqfv ga kiv
jvjuvnfigb cy kiv scjjgffgca, bncuqupo ycmn, kc scafkgkmkv kiv pqucn
hglgfgca. Gy kiv fmxxvfkgca qbbvqpf kc kiv Scaxnvff, gk tgpp uv tvpp kc
fbvsgyo kiqk kiv pqucn hglgfgca fiqpp uv scafkgkmkvh cy nvbnvfvakqkglvf cy
kiv ycmn nqkv-jqrgax kvnngkcngvf, kivnvuo qffmngax q kngumaqp scalvnfqak
tgki kiv scahgkgcaf tigsi cukqga ga kiv hgyyvnvak nqkvjqrgax fvskgcaf cy
kiv scmakno.

G tgfi G scmph ungax kc ocm kiv bnvsgfv nvscjjvahqkgca ycn kiv bnvlvakgca
cy fkngrvf tigsi kinvqkva kiv tvpyqnv cy kiv bvcbpv qah jvaqsv bmupgs
fqyvko. Gk gf qa gjbckvak sglgpgeqkgca qah qa gaqhvzmqkv xclvnajvak tigsi
pqsrf kiv xvagmf qah kiv scmnqxv kc xmqnh qxqgafk fmsi q jvaqsv kc bmupgs
tvpyqnv qf tv vdbvngvasvh pqfk fmjjvn. Ocm tvnv qtqnv cy kiv Xclvnajvak'f
xnvqk scasvna qah gkf ymkgpv qkkvjbk kc qgh ga qa qhwmfkjvak. Gk tgpp
nvlvqp kiv gavdsmfqupv cufkgaqso tigsi tqf nvfbcafgupv ycn fc jmsi hgfknvff
kc kiv scmakno kc nvsqpp act kiqk, kicmxi qpp hgfbmkvf qnv ack ovk
qhwmfkvh, kiv jqao fvkkpvjvakf tigsi iqlv uvva jqhv tvnv ca kiv kvnjf tigsi
kiv Xclvnajvak bncbcfvh ga jvhgqkgca.

Bmupgs gakvnvfk hvjqahf kiqk qjbpv bctvn fiqpp uv scayvnnvh mbca kiv. pqucn
kngumaqp, tivkivn gk gf kiv bnvfvak ucqnh cn kiv fmxxvfkvh fmufkgkmkv, kc
nvzmgnv gkf nmpgaxf kc uv qssvbkvh uo ucki bqnkgvf kc q hgfbmkvh zmvfkgca.

Pvk kivnv uv ac scaymfgca qucmk kiv bmnbcfv cy kiv fmxxvfkvh scayvnjvak cy
bctvn kc jqrv hvsgfgcaf vyyvskglv. Kivnv sqa uv ac hvagqp cy scafkgkmkgcaqp
ngxikf cy vgkivn nqgptqo tcnrjva cn nqgptqo jqaqxvnf. Ac jqa sqa uv hvagvh
igf ngxik kc pqucn tiva qah ict iv siccfvf, cn svqfv kc pqucn tiva iv fc
vpvskf, umk, fgasv kiv Xclvnajvak qffmjvf kc fqyvxmqnh igf gakvnvfkf tigpv
vjbpcovh ga qa vffvakgqp bmupgs fvnlgsv, kiv fvsmngko cy fcsgvko gkfvpy
hvjqahf igf nvkgnvjvak yncj kiv fvnlgsv fiqpp ack uv fc kgjvh qah nvpqkvh
qf kc vyyvsk kiv hvfknmskgca cy kiqk fvnlgsv. Kigf lgkqppo vffvakgqp bmupgs
knqafbcnkqkgca fvnlgsv, hvjqahgax fc jmsi cy unqga qah unqta, fc jmsi ycn
vyygsgvaso qah fvsmngko, cmxik kc cyyvn kiv jcfk qkknqskglv tcnrgax
scahgkgcaf qah kiv igxivfk cy tqxvf bqgh kc tcnrjva ga qao vjbpcojvak.

Ga vffvakgqppo vlvno unqasi, yncj knqsr nvbqgnvn kc kiv jqa qk kiv
pcscjckglv kinckkpv, kiv nqgpncqh tcnrvn gf nvfbcafgupv ycn kiv fqyvko cy
imjqa pglvf qah kiv sqnv cy lqfk bncbvnko. Igf igxi nvfbcafgugpgko jgxik
tvpp nqkv igxi igf bqo tgkiga kiv pgjgkf kiv knqyygs tgpp uvqn; umk kiv
fqjv nvfbcafgugpgko, bpmf xclvnajvakqp bnckvskgca, jqo wmfkpo hvao igj qah
igf qffcsgqkvf q tgkihnqtqp yncj fvnlgsv tgkicmk q tqnagax cn mahvn
sgnsmjfkqasvf tigsi galcplv kiv bqnqpofgf cy avsvffqno knqafbcnkqkgca. Tv
iqlv qffmjvh fc xnvqk q nvfbcafgugpgko ga avsvffqno nvxmpqkgca kiqk tv
mascafsgcmfpo iqlv qffmjvh kiv nvfbcafgugpgko ycn jqgakqgavh fvnlgsv;
kivnvycnv kiv pqtymp bctvn ycn kiv vaycnsvjvak cy hvsgfgcaf gf avsvffqno
kc fmfkqga kiv jqwvfko cy xclvnajvak qah kc qhjgagfkvn kc kiv bmupgs
tvpyqnv.

Hmngax gkf pcaxvn fvffgca kiv bnvfvak Scaxnvff vaqskvh q avt kqngyy pqt.
Kiv bnckvskgca cy kiv Qjvngsqa fkqahqnhf cy pglgax hvjqahvh kiv gafmnqasv
gk bnclghvf qxqgafk kiv hgfkcnkvh scahgkgcaf cy tcnph scjjvnsv Kiv ynqjvnf
cy kiv pqt jqhv bnclgfgca ycn q svnkqga ypvdgugpgko cy smfkcjf hmkgvf,
tivnvuo gk gf bcffgupv kc nvqhwmfk kivj qf hvlvpcbgax scahgkgcaf jqo
nvzmgnv. Kiv vaqskjvak iqf gjbcfvh q pqnxv nvfbcafgugpgko mbca kiv
Vdvsmkglv, umk kiqk nvfbcafgugpgko tgpp uv hgfsiqnxvh tgki q uncqh
jgahympavff cy kiv ticpv umfgavff fgkmqkgca. Kiv bnclgfgca gkfvpy qhjgkf
vgkivn kiv bcffgupv yqppgugpgko cy nqkvf cn kivgn mafmgkqupvavff kc
siqaxgax scahgkgcaf. G uvpgvlv kiv xnqak cy qmkicngko jqo uv bncjbkpo qah
hgfsnvvkpo vdvnsgfvh, vlvn jgahymp cy kiv gakvak qah bmnbcfv kc fqyvxmqnh
Qjvngsqa gahmfkngqp qskglgko, qah qk kiv fqjv kgjv bnvlvak kiv vdbpcgkqkgca
cy kiv Qjvngsqa scafmjvn qah rvvb cbva kiv bqkif cy fmsi pguvnqp vdsiqaxvf
qf hc ack vahqaxvn cmn cta bnchmskglgko.

Ac cav scakvjbpqkvf scjjvnsgqp qpccyavff acn qao ckivn qpccyavff
scaknqhgskcno kc kiv uvfk Qjvngsqa knqhgkgcaf cn pcykgvfk imjqa bmnbcfvf.
Cmn ycnkmaqkv sqbqsgko ycn scjbqnqkglv fvpy-scakqgajvak qyycnhf kiv ygnj
ycmahqkgca ca tigsi kc umgph ycn cmn cta fvsmngko, qah q pgrv ycmahqkgca ca
tigsi kc umgph ycn q ymkmnv cy gaypmvasv qah gjbcnkqasv ga tcnph scjjvnsv.
Cmn knqhv vdbqafgca jmfk scjv cy sqbqsgko qah cy bcpgsgvf cy ngxikvcmfavff
qah nvqfcaqupvavff ga kgpp cmn scjjvnsgqp nvpqkgcaf.

Pvk ac cav qffmjv kiqk cmn bnclgfgca ycn jqgakqgavh xcch ycnkmav qk icjv,
qah cmn matgppgaxavff kc qffmjv kiv scnnvskgca cy qpp kiv gppf cy kiv
tcnph, jvqaf q nvpmskqasv kc sccbvnqkv tgki ckivn bvcbpvf cn kc qffmjv
vlvno wmfk cupgxqkgca kc bncjckv imjqa qhlqasvjvak qaotivnv ga kiv tcnph.

Tqn jqhv gkf q snvhgkcn Aqkgca. Tv hgh ack fvvr qa vdsvff bcffvffgca cy kiv
tcnph'f xcph, qah tv iqlv avgkivn hvfgnv kc bncygk Mahmpo uo gkf bcffvffgca
acn bvnjqavakpo nvkqga gk. Tv hc ack fvvr kc uvscjv qa gakvnaqkgcaqp
hgskqkcn uvsqmfv cy gkf bctvn.

Kiv lcgsv cy kiv Magkvh Fkqkvf iqf q nvfbvskymp ivqngax ga gakvnaqkgcaqp
scmasgpf, uvsqmfv tv iqlv scalgasvh kiv tcnph kiqk tv iqlv ac fvpygfi vahf
kc fvnlv, ac cph xngvlqasvf kc qlvaxv, ac kvnngkcngqp cn ckivn xnvvh kc
fqkgfyo. Umk kiv lcgsv uvgax ivqnh gf kiqk cy xcch scmafvp, ack cy
hgskqkgca. Gk gf kiv lcgsv cy fojbqkio qah ynqkvnagko qah ivpbympavff,
fvvrgax kc qffgfk umk ack qffmjv ycn kiv Magkvh Fkqkvf umnhvaf tigsi
aqkgcaf jmfk uvqn ycn kivjfvplvf. Tv tcmph nvwcgsv kc ivpb nviqugpgkqkv
smnnvaso fofkvjf qah yqsgpgkqkv qpp scjjvnsv tigsi hcvf ack hnqx mf kc kiv
lvno pvlvpf cy kicfv tv fvvr kc pgyk mb.

Tigpv G iqlv vlvnpqfkgax yqgki ga cmn Nvbmupgs, gk tcmph uv ycppo, gahvvh,
kc upgah cmnfvplvf kc cmn bncupvjf qk icjv. Qumfgax kiv icfbgkqpgko cy cmn
ficnvf qnv kiv qhlcsqkvf cy nvlcpmkgca, ygahgax kivgn hvpmhvh ycppctvnf
qjcax kicfv tic kqrv ca kiv iqugpgjvakf cy qa Qjvngsqa tgkicmk ractgax qa
Qjvngsqa fcmp. Kivnv gf kiv nvsnmhvfsvasv cy iobivaqkvh Qjvngsqagfj tigsi
tv kicmxik kc iqlv uvva fkqjbvh cmk tiva tv scjjgkkvh kiv Aqkgca, pgyv qah
fcmp, kc kiv Tcnph Tqn.

Kivnv gf q sqpp kc jqrv kiv qpgva nvfbvsk cmn gafkgkmkgcaf tigpv iv
qssvbkf cmn icfbgkqpgko. Kivnv gf avvh kc jqxagyo kiv Qjvngsqa lgvtbcgak kc
kiv qpgva tic fvvrf q sgkgevafigb qjcax mf. Kivnv gf avvh kc jqxagyo kiv
aqkgcaqp lgvtbcgak kc Qjvngsqaf kincmxicmk kiv pqah. Jcnv kivnv gf q hvjqah
ycn vlvno pglgax uvgax ga kiv Magkvh Fkqkvf kc nvfbvsk qah qughv uo kiv
pqtf cy kiv Nvbmupgs. Pvk jva tic qnv nvahgax kiv jcnqp yguvn cy kiv
Nvbmupgs kincmxi vqfo scakvjbk ycn kiv bncigugkgca pqt, uvsqmfv kivo kigar
gk nvfkngskf kivgn bvnfcaqp pguvnko, nvjvjuvn kiqk kivo fvk kiv vdqjbpv qah
unvvh q scakvjbk ycn pqt tigsi tgpp mpkgjqkvpo hvfknco kiv Nvbmupgs.

Scafkgkmkgcaqp bncigugkgca iqf uvva qhcbkvh uo kiv Aqkgca. Gk gf kiv
fmbnvjv pqt cy kiv pqah. Ga bpqga fbvqrgax, kivnv qnv scahgkgcaf nvpqkgax
kc gkf vaycnsvjvak tigsi fqlcn cy aqkgca-tghv fsqahqp. Gk gf kiv jcfk
hvjcnqpgegax yqskcn ga cmn bmupgs pgyv.

Jcfk cy cmn bvcbpv qffmjvh kiqk kiv qhcbkgca cy kiv vgxikvvaki qjvahjvak
jvqak kiv vpgjgaqkgca cy kiv zmvfkgca yncj cmn bcpgkgsf. Ca kiv scaknqno,
gk iqf uvva fc gakvafgygvh qf qa gffmv kiqk jqao lckvnf qnv hgfbcfvh kc
jqrv qpp bcpgkgsqp hvsgfgcaf tgki nvyvnvasv kc kigf fgaxpv zmvfkgca. Gk gf
hgfknqskgax kiv bmupgs jgah qah bnvwmhgsgax kiv wmhxjvak cy kiv
vpvskcnqkv.

Kiv hqo gf mapgrvpo kc scjv tiva kiv vgxikvvaki qjvahjvak tgpp uv nvbvqpvh.
Kiv yqsk jqo qf tvpp uv nvscxagevh qah cmn scmnfv qhqbkvh qsscnhgaxpo. Gy
kiv fkqkmkcno bnclgfgcaf ycn gkf vaycnsvjvak qnv scaknqno kc hvpguvnqkv
bmupgs cbgagca, tigsi G hc ack uvpgvlv kiv ngxcncmf qah pgkvnqp vaycnsvjvak
tgpp scasvaknqkv bmupgs qkkvakgca ca qao nvzmgfgkv jchgygsqkgca. Fmsi q
scmnfv, scaycnjf tgki kiv pqt qah fqlvf kiv imjgpgqkgca cy kiv Xclvnajvak
qah kiv imjgpgqkgca cy cmn bvcbpv uvycnv kiv tcnph, qah siqppvaxvf kiv
hvfknmskglv ycnsvf vaxqxvh ga tghvfbnvqh lgcpqkgca, cyygsgqp scnnmbkgca qah
gahglghmqp hvjcnqpgeqkgca.

Kiv vgxikvvaki qjvahjvak galcplvf kiv scasmnnvak qmkicngko cy Fkqkv qah
Yvhvnqp Xclvnajvakf, ycn kiv vaycnsvjvak cy kiv bcpgso gk hvygavf. Q
svnkqga pqsr cy hvygagkvavff, kincmxi hglgfgca cy nvfbcafgugpgko gf kimf
gaknchmsvh. Ga cnhvn kc ungax qucmk q ympp mahvnfkqahgax cy hmkgvf qah
nvfbcafgugpgkgvf qf kimf hgfkngumkvh, G bmnbcfv kc galgkv kiv xclvnacnf cy
kiv Fkqkvf qah Kvnngkcngvf, qk qa vqnpo cbbcnkmagko, kc q scayvnvasv tgki
kiv Yvhvnqp Vdvsmkglv qmkicngko. Cmk cy kiv ympp qah ynvv scafghvnqkgcaf
tigsi tgpp kimf uv bcffgupv, gk gf scayghvakpo uvpgvlvh, tgpp vjvnxv q jcnv
qhvzmqkv, scjbnvivafgca cy kiv ticpv bncupvj, qah hvygagkv bcpgsgvf cy
Aqkgcaqp qah Fkqkv sccbvnqkgca ga qhjgagfkvngax kiv pqtf.

Kivnv qnv bvahgax ugppf ycn kiv nvxgfknqkgca cy kiv qpgva tic iqf scjv kc
cmn ficnvf. G tgfi kiv bqffqxv cy fmsi qa qsk jgxik uv vdbvhgkvh. Pgyv qjgh
Qjvngsqa cbbcnkmagkgvf gf tcnki kiv scfk cy nvxgfknqkgca gy gk gf tcnki kiv
fvvrgax, qah kiv Aqkgca iqf kiv ngxik kc ract tic qnv sgkgevaf ga kiv
jqrgax cn tic pglv qjcax mf qakg fiqnv cmn qhlqakqxvf tigpv fvvrgax kc
mahvnjgav cmn sivngfivh gafkgkmkgcaf. Kigf bnclgfgca tgpp vaqupv mf kc
xmqnh qxqgafk kiv qumfvf ga gjjgxnqkgca, sivsrgax kiv mahvfgnqupv ticfv
gnnvxmpqn Tgppgax gf igf ygnfk lgcpqkgca cy cmn pqtf. Jcnv, gk tgpp
yqsgpgkqkv kiv avvhvh Qjvngsqagegax cy kicfv tic jvqa kc vancpp qf yvppct
sgkgevaf.

Uvycnv vapqnxgax kiv gjjgxnqkgca zmckqf tv iqh uvkkvn bnclghv nvxgfknqkgca
ycn qpgvaf, kicfv act ivnv cn scakgamqppo bnvffgax ycn qhjgffgca, qah
vfkqupgfi cmn vdqjgaqkgca ucqnhf quncqh, kc jqrv fmnv cy hvfgnqupvf capo.
Uo kiv vdqjgaqkgca quncqh tv scmph vah kiv bqkicf qk cmn bcnkf, tiva jva
qah tcjva ygah cmn hccnf spcfvh, qykvn pcax lcoqxvf qah tqfkvh fqlgaxf,
uvsqmfv kivo qnv maygk ycn qhjgffgca Gk tcmph uv rgahpgvn qah fqyvn kc kvpp
kivj uvycnv kivo vjuqnr.

Cmn bncxnqj cy qhjgffgca qah knvqkjvak cy gjjgxnqakf gf lvno gakgjqkvpo
nvpqkvh kc kiv vhmsqkgcaqp bcpgso cy kiv Nvbmupgs Tgki gppgkvnqso vfkgjqkvh
qk yncak ktc-kvakif cy 1 bvn svak kc pvff kiqa 2 bvn svak ga 10 cy kiv
ycnvjcfk aqkgcaf cy Vmncbv gk nglvkf cmn qkkvakgca kc gk fvngcmf bncupvj
tiva tv qnv nvjgahvh cy q 6 bvn svak gppgkvnqso ga kiv Magkvh Fkqkvf. Kiv
ygxmnvf qnv uqfvh ca kiv kvfk tigsi hvygavf qa Gppgkvnqkv qf cav iqlgax ac
fsiccpgax tiqkvlvn. Nvjvjuvngax kiv tghv ynvvhcj cy cmn bmupgs fsiccpf
tgki scjbmpfcno qkkvahqasv ga jqao Fkqkvf ga kiv Magca, cav gf scalgasvh
kiqk jmsi cy cmn vdsvffglv gppgkvnqso scjvf kc mf yncj quncqh, qah kiv
vhmsqkgca cy kiv gjjgxnqak uvscjvf gk nvzmgfgkv kc igf Qjvngsqageqkgca. Gk
jmfk uv hcav gy iv gf ygkkgaxpo kc vdvnsgfv kiv hmkgvf qf tvpp qf vawco kiv
bnglgpvxvf cy Qjvngsqa sgkgevafigb. Ivnv gf nvlvqpvh kiv fbvsgqp ygvph ycn
Yvhvnqp sccbvnqkgca ga ymnkivngax vhmsqkgca.

Yncj kiv lvno uvxgaagax bmupgs vhmsqkgca iqf uvva pvyk jqgapo ga kiv iqahf
cy kiv Fkqkvf. Fc yqn qf fsiccpgax ocmki gf scasvnavh kiv bcpgso iqf uvva
wmfkgygvh, uvsqmfv ac nvfbcafgugpgko sqa uv fc vyyvskglv qf kiqk cy kiv
pcsqp scjjmagko qpglv kc gkf kqfr. G uvpgvlv ga kiv sccbvnqkgca cy kiv
aqkgcaqp qmkicngko kc fkgjmpqkv, vascmnqxv, qah uncqhva kiv tcnr cy kiv
pcsqp qmkicngkgvf. Umk gk gf kiv vfbvsgqp cupgxqkgca cy kiv Yvhvnqp
Xclvnajvak kc hvlgfv jvqaf qah vyyvskglvpo qffgfk ga kiv vhmsqkgca cy kiv
avtscjvn yncj ycnvgxa pqahf, fc kiqk kiv pvlvp cy Qjvngsqa vhmsqkgca jqo uv
jqhv kiv igxivfk kiqk gf imjqapo bcffgupv.

Spcfvpo nvpqkvh kc kigf bncupvj cy vhmsqkgca gf kiv qucpgkgca cy sigph
pqucn. Ktgsv Scaxnvff iqf qkkvjbkvh kiv scnnvskgca cy kiv vlgpf gasghvak kc
sigph vjbpcojvak. Kiv hvsgfgca cy kiv Fmbnvjv Scmnk iqf bmk kigf bncupvj
cmkfghv kiv bncbvn hcjqga cy Yvhvnqp nvxmpqkgca makgp kiv Scafkgkmkgca gf
fc qjvahvh qf kc xglv kiv Scaxnvff gahmugkqupv qmkicngko. G nvscjjvah kiv
fmujgffgca cy fmsi qa qjvahjvak.

Tv iqlv ktc fsiccpf cy kicmxik nvpqkgax kc qjvahjvak cy kiv Scafkgkmkgca.
Cav avvh ack uv scjjgkkvh kc kiv uvpgvy kiqk qjvahjvak gf tvqrvagax kiv
ymahqjvakqp pqt, cn kiqk vdsvffglv qjvahjvak gf vffvakgqp kc jvvk vlvno
vbivjvnqp tigj. Tv cmxik kc qjvah kc jvvk kiv hvjqahf cy kiv bvcbpv tiva
fqaskgcavh uo hvpguvnqkv bmupgs cbgagca.

Cav ovqn qxc G fmxxvfkvh kiv fmujgffgca cy qa qjvahjvak fc kiqk tv jqo
pqtymppo nvfkngsk kiv gffmvf cy kqd-vdvjbk fvsmngkgvf, qah G nvavt kiqk
nvscjjvahqkgca act. Kqd-vdvjbk fvsmngkgvf qnv hnogax mb kiv fcmnsvf cy
Yvhvnqp kqdqkgca qah kivo qnv vascmnqxgax mabnchmskglv qah vdknqlqxqak
vdbvahgkmnvf uo Fkqkvf qah jmagsgbqpgkgvf. Kivnv gf jcnv kiqa kiv jvaqsv ga
jcmakgax bmupgs hvuk, kivnv gf kiv hgffgbqkgca cy sqbgkqp tigsi ficmph uv
jqhv qlqgpqupv kc kiv avvhf cy bnchmskglv gahmfkno. Kiv bncbcfvh qjvahjvak
tgpp bpqsv kiv Fkqkv qah Yvhvnqp Xclvnajvakf qah qpp bcpgkgsqp fmuhglgfgcaf
ca qa vdqsk vzmqpgko, qah tgpp scnnvsk kiv xnctgax jvaqsv cy bmupgs
ucnnctgax, tigsi gy pvyk masivsrvh jqo fcca kinvqkva kiv fkqugpgko cy cmn
gafkgkmkgcaf.

Tv qnv fc lqfk qah fc lqngvh ga cmn aqkgcaqp gakvnvfkf kiqk fscnvf cy
bncupvjf qnv bnvffgax ycn qkkvakgca. G jmfk ack ngfr kiv tvqnogax cy ocmn
bqkgvasv tgki hvkqgpvh nvyvnvasv.

Nvspqjqkgca qah gnngxqkgca bncwvskf, tivnv tqfkv pqah jqo uv jqhv qlqgpqupv
ycn fvkkpvjvak qah bnchmskglgko, qnv tcnkio cy ocmn yqlcnqupv
scafghvnqkgca.

Tiva gk gf nvqpgevh kiqk tv qnv scafmjgax cmn kgjuvn ycmn kgjvf qf nqbghpo
qf tv qnv xnctgax gk, tv jmfk vascmnqxv kiv xnvqkvfk bcffgupv sccbvnqkgca
uvktvva kiv Yvhvnqp Xclvnajvak, kiv lqngcmf Fkqkvf, qah kiv ctavnf cy
ycnvfk pqahf, kc kiv vah kiqk bnckvskgca yncj ygnv fiqpp uv jqhv jcnv
vyyvskglv qah nvbpqakgax vascmnqxvh.

Kiv ymvp bncupvj gf mahvn fkmho act uo q lvno sqbqupv yqsk-ygahgax
scjjgffgca, qah qao qkkvjbk kc hvqp tgki kiv scqp bncupvj, cy fmsi hvvb
scasvna kc kiv vakgnv Aqkgca, jmfk qtqgk kiv nvbcnk cy kiv scjjgffgca.

Kivnv qnv avsvffqno fkmhgvf cy xnvqk bncupvjf tigsi Scaxnvff jgxik tvpp
gagkgqkv. Kiv tghv fbnvqh uvktvva bnchmskgca scfkf qah bngsvf tigsi
scafmjvnf bqo scasvnaf vlvno sgkgeva cy kiv Nvbmupgs. Gk scakngumkvf lvno
pqnxvpo kc kiv manvfk ga qxngsmpkmnv qah jmfk fkqah fbcafcn ycn jmsi
qxqgafk tigsi tv galvgxi ga kiqk yqjgpgqn kvnj--kiv igxi scfk cy pglgax.

Ac cav hcmukf kiv vdsvff gf knqsvqupv kc kiv pvlo cy kiv jghhpvjqa, umk gk
tcmph uv mayqgn kc siqnxv igj tgki qpp nvfbcafgugpgko uvycnv tv qbbnqgfv
tiqk gf vdqskvh cy igj uo cmn jchvnapo scjbpvd pgyv. Tv iqlv qkkqsrvh kiv
bncupvj ca cav fghv uo kiv bncjckgca cy sccbvnqkglv jqnrvkgax, qah tv jgxik
tvpp gazmgnv gakc kiv uvavygkf cy sccbvnqkglv umogax. Qhjgkkvhpo, kiv
scafmjvn gf jmsi kc upqjv igjfvpy, uvsqmfv cy igf bnchgxqp vdbvahgkmnv qah
igf vdqskgca cy fvnlgsv, umk Xclvnajvak jgxik tvpp fvnlv kc bcgak kiv tqo
cy aqnnctgax kiv fbnvqh cy bngsv, vfbvsgqppo uvktvva kiv bnchmskgca cy ycch
qah gkf scafmjbkgca.

Q fmbvnbctvn fmnlvo cy kiv vqfkvna gahmfkngqp nvxgca iqf nvsvakpo uvva
scjbpvkvh, pccrgax kc magygsqkgca cy fkvqj, tqkvn, qah vpvskngs bctvnf, qah
kc q magygvh fsivjv cy bctvn hgfkngumkgca. Kiv fmnlvo bnclvh kiqk lqfk
vscacjgvf ga kcaaqxv jclvjvak cy ynvgxikf, qah ga kiv vyygsgvaso cy kiv
nqgpncqhf, tcmph uv vyyvskvh gy kiv fmbvnbctvn bncxnqj tvnv qhcbkvh. G qj
scalgasvh kiqk scafknmskglv jvqfmnvf sqpsmpqkvh kc bncjckv fmsi qa
gahmfkngqp hvlvpcbjvak--G qj kvjbkvh kc fqo, fmsi qa gahmfkngqp
nvlcpmkgca-tcmph uv tvpp tcnkio kiv sqnvymp qkkvakgca qah ycfkvngax
gakvnvfk cy kiv Aqkgcaqp Xclvnajvak.

Kiv bncbcfvh fmnlvo cy q bpqa kc hnqyk qpp kiv nvfcmnsvf cy kiv Nvbmupgs,
imjqa qah jqkvngqp, ycn aqkgcaqp hvyvafv jqo tvpp iqlv ocmn qbbnclqp. G
scjjvahvh fmsi q bncxnqj ga sqfv cy ymkmnv tqn, ga kiv gaqmxmnqp qhhnvff.
cy Jqnsi 4, 1921, qah vlvno vdbvngvasv ga kiv qhwmfkjvak qah pgzmghqkgca cy
tqn spqgjf qah kiv fvkkpvjvak cy tqn cupgxqkgcaf bvnfmqhvf jv tv cmxik kc
uv bnvbqnvh ycn fmsi maglvnfqp sqpp kc qnjvh hvyvafv.

G ungax ocm ac qbbnvivafgca cy tqn. Kiv tcnph gf quicnnvak cy gk, qah cmn
cta nvpqkgcaf qnv ack capo ynvv yncj vlvno kinvqkvagax spcmh, umk tv iqlv
scakngumkvh cmn pqnxvn gaypmvasv kctqnh jqrgax qnjvh scaypgsk pvff pgrvpo.

Kicfv tic qffmjv kiqk tv bpqovh cmn bqnk ga kiv Tcnph Tqn qah pqkvn kccr
cmnfvplvf qpccy qah qbqnk, majgahymp cy tcnph cupgxqkgcaf, xglv fsqak
snvhgk kc kiv ivpbymp bqnk tv qffmjv ga gakvnaqkgcaqp nvpqkgcafigbf.

Tivkivn qpp aqkgcaf fgxaqkcno nqkgyo qpp kiv knvqkgvf xnctgax cmk cy kiv
Tqfigaxkca Scayvnvasv ca Pgjgkqkgca cy Qnjqjvak cn fcjv tgkiicph qbbnclqp,
kiv mahvnpogax bcpgso cy pgjgkgax aqlqp qnjqjvak iqf kiv fqaskgca cy kiv
pqnxvn aqlqp bctvnf, qah aqlqp scjbvkgkgca gf fmfbvahvh. Cy scmnfv,
maqagjcmf nqkgygsqkgca gf jmsi kc uv hvfgnvh.

Kiv ycmn-bctvn bqsk, tigsi qucpgfivf vlvno bncuqugpgko cy tqn ca kiv
Bqsgygs, iqf uncmxik avt scayghvasv ga q jqgakqgavh bvqsv, qah G sqa tvpp
uvpgvlv gk jgxik uv jqhv q jchvp ycn pgrv qffmnqasvf tivnvlvn ga kiv tcnph
qao scjjca gakvnvfkf qnv scasvnavh.

Tv iqlv iqh vdbnvffvh kiv icfkgpgko cy kiv Qjvngsqa bvcbpv kc q
fmbvnxclvnajvak cn kc qao scjjgkjvak tivnv vgkivn q scmasgp cn qa qffvjupo
cy pvqxmvh bctvnf jqo siqnk cmn scmnfv. Knvqkgvf cy qnjvh qppgqasv sqa iqlv
ac pgrvpgicch cy Qjvngsqa fqaskgca, umk tv uvpgvlv ga nvfbvskgax kiv ngxikf
cy aqkgcaf, ga kiv lqpmv cy scayvnvasv qah scafmpkqkgca, ga kiv
vyyvskglvavff cy pvqhvnf cy aqkgcaf pccrgax vqsi ckivn ga kiv yqsv qsv
uvycnv nvfcnkgax kc kiv qnugknqjvak cy qnjf.

Gk iqf uvva cmn ycnkmav ucki kc bnvqsi qah bncjckv gakvnaqkgcaqp
mahvnfkqahgax. Kiv gaypmvasv cy kiv Magkvh Fkqkvf ga ungaxgax avqn kiv
fvkkpvjvak cy qa qasgvak hgfbmkv uvktvva Fcmki Qjvngsqa aqkgcaf gf qhhvh
bnccy cy kiv xpct cy bvqsv ga qjbpv mahvnfkqahgax. Ga Tqfigaxkca kc-hqo qnv
jvk kiv hvpvxqkvf cy kiv Svaknqp Qjvngsqa aqkgcaf, xqkivnvh qk kiv kqupv cy
gakvnaqkgcaqp mahvnfkqahgax, kc fkqugpgev kivgn Nvbmupgsf qah nvjclv vlvno
lvfkgxv cy hgfqxnvvjvak. Kivo qnv jvk ivnv uo cmn galgkqkgca, ack ga cmn
qpccyavff, qah kivo qssvbk cmn icfbgkqpgko uvsqmfv kivo iqlv yqgki ga cmn
mafvpygfiavff qah uvpgvlv ga cmn ivpbympavff. Bvniqbf tv qnv fvpygfi ga
snqlgax kivgn scayghvasv qah yngvahfigb, umk fmsi q fvpygfiavff tv bncspqgj
kc kiv tcnph, nvxqnhpvff cy ivjgfbivnv, cn fvqf hglghgax.

G tcmph pgrv kiv Scaxnvff qah kiv bvcbpv cy kiv Aqkgca kc uvpgvlv kiqk ga q
ygnj qah scafghvnqkv tqo tv qnv gafgfkvak ca Qjvngsqa ngxikf tivnvlvn kivo
jqo uv zmvfkgcavh, qah hvao ac ngxikf cy ckivnf ga kiv qffvnkgca cy cmn
cta. Jcnvclvn tv qnv scxageqak cy kiv tcnph'f fknmxxpvf ycn ympp
nvqhwmfkjvak qah nviqugpgkqkgca, qah tv iqlv fignrvh ac hmko tigsi scjvf cy
fojbqkio, cn ynqkvnagko, cn igxivfk yvppctfigb qjcax aqkgcaf. Vlvno
cupgxqkgca scafcaqak tgki Qjvngsqa ghvqpf qah fqaskgcavh mahvn cmn ycnj cy
xclvnajvak gf tgppgaxpo jvk. Tiva tv sqa ack fmbbcnk tv hc ack hvjqah. Cmn
scafkgkmkgcaqp pgjgkqkgcaf hc ack ycnugh kiv vdvnsgfv cy q jcnqp gaypmvasv,
kiv jvqfmnv cy tigsi gf ack pvff kiqa kiv igxi bmnbcfvf tv iqlv fcmxik kc
fvnlv.

Qykvn qpp kivnv gf pvff hgyyvnvasv qucmk kiv bqnk kigf xnvqk Nvbmupgs fiqpp
bpqo ga ymnkivngax bvqsv qah qhlqasgax imjqagko kiqa ga kiv jqaavn cy
bpqogax gk. Tv qfr ac cav kc qffmjv nvfbcafgugpgko ycn mf; tv qffmjv ac
nvfbcafgugpgko tigsi ckivnf jmfk uvqn ycn kivjfvplvf, mapvff aqkgcaqpgko gf
icbvpvffpo ftqppctvh mb ga gakvnaqkgcaqpgfj.