FC. YGJUDJC UOR FJFWJCY PI BHJ VPOSCJYY:

Xb xy u kjct scubxitxos gcxkxljsj bp vpfj bp bhj Vposcjyy axbh bhj Cjgewlxv
ub gjuvj axbh ull bhj oubxpoy pi bhj apclr. Fpcj, xb xy jqeullt scubxitxos
bp cjgpcb bhub pec vpeobct xy opb polt icjj icpf jkjct xfgjorxos, fjouvj pi
auc, web bhjcj ucj scpaxos uyyecuovjy pi bhj gjcfuojovt pi bhj gjuvj ahxvh
aj yp rjjglt vhjcxyh.

Ipc uggcpmxfubjlt bjo tjucy aj hukj rajlb ufxr fjouvjy pi auc pc uy
gucbxvxguoby xo auc'y uvbeulxbxjy, uor bhj xojkxbuwlj uibjcfubh, axbh xby
rxypcrjcjr vporxbxpoy, wxby urrjr bp bhj rxiixvelbxjy pi spkjcofjob ahxvh
urjqeubjlt vuo opb wj uggcuxyjr jmvjgb wt, bhpyj ahp ucj xo xffjrxubj
vpobuvb uor dopa bhj cjygpoyxwxlxbxjy. Pec buydy apelr wj ljyy rxiixvelb xi
aj hur polt pecyjlkjy bp vpoyxrjc, web yp fevh pi bhj apclr auy xokplkjr,
bhj rxypcrjcjr vporxbxpoy ucj yp ajll-oxsh eoxkjcyul, jkjo ufpos oubxpoy
opb josusjr xo uvbeul auciucj, bhub op gjcfuojob cjurzeybfjoby vuo wj
jiijvbjr axbhpeb vpoyxrjcubxpo pi pec xojyvuguwlj cjlubxpoyhxg bp apclr
uiiuxcy xo ixouovj uor bcurj. Xorjjr, aj yhpelr wj eoapcbht pi pec wjyb
bcurxbxpoy xi aj ajcj eofxoriel pi ypvxul, fpcul, uor gplxbxvul vporxbxpoy
ahxvh ucj opb pi rxcjvb vpovjco bp ey, web ahxvh rp uggjul bp bhj hefuo
ytfgubhxjy uor bhj kjct wjvpfxos xobjcjyb pi u gjpglj wljyb axbh pec
oubxpoul sppr ipcbeoj.

Xb xy opb ft gecgpyj bp wcxos bp tpe u gcpscuf pi apclr cjybpcubxpo. Xo bhj
fuxo yevh u gcpscuf feyb wj apcdjr peb wt bhj oubxpoy fpcj rxcjvblt
vpovjcojr. Bhjt feyb bhjfyjlkjy beco bp bhj hjcpxv cjfjrxjy ipc bhj
fjouvxos vporxbxpoy eorjc ahxvh bhjt ucj ybcesslxos, bhjo aj vuo hjlg, uor
aj fjuo bp hjlg. Aj yhull rp yp eoyjlixyhlt wjvueyj bhjcj xy vpfgjoyubxpo
xo bhj vpoyvxpeyojyy pi uyyxybxos, yjlixyhlt wjvueyj bhj vpffjcvj uor
xobjcoubxpoul jmvhuosjy xo bcurj, ahxvh fucdjr pec hxsh bxrj pi ipcbeoubj
urkuovjfjob, ucj gpyyxwlj polt ahjo bhj oubxpoy pi ull vpobxojoby ucj
cjybpcjr bp ybuwlj pcrjc uor opcful cjlubxpoyhxg.

Xo bhj fuxo bhj vpobcxwebxpo pi bhxy Cjgewlxv bp cjybpcjr opcfulvt xo bhj
apclr feyb vpfj bhcpesh bhj xoxbxubxkj pi bhj jmjvebxkj wcuovh pi bhj
Spkjcofjob, web bhj wjyb pi xobjobxpoy uor fpyb vucjiellt vpoyxrjcjr
gecgpyjy apelr iuxl ebbjclt xi bhj yuovbxpo uor bhj vppgjcubxpo pi Vposcjyy
ajcj opb vhjjciellt uvvpcrjr.

X uf kjct yecj aj yhull hukj op vpoilxvb pi pgxoxpo uwpeb vpoybxbebxpoul
rebxjy pc uebhpcxbt. Recxos bhj uomxjbxjy pi auc, ahjo ojvjyyxbt yjjfjr
vpfgjllxos bhjcj ajcj jmvjyyxkj scuoby pi uebhpcxbt uor ull jmbcupcrxouct
vpovjobcubxpo pi gpajcy xo bhj Vhxji Jmjvebxkj. Bhj cjgjul pi auc-bxfj
ljsxylubxpo uor bhj uebpfubxv jmgxcubxpoy ahxvh ubbjorjr bhj gjuvj
gcpvlufubxpoy hukj geb uo jor bp bhjyj jfjcsjovt jmvjyyjy web X hukj bhj
axyh bp sp iecbhjc bhuo bhub. X auob bp zpxo tpe xll cjybpcxos-, xll bhj
fpyb vpcrxul aut, bhj ygxcxb pi vppcrxoubxpo uor vppgjcubxpo, uor bhub
febeulxbt pi vpoixrjovj uor cjygjvb ahxvh xy ojvjyyuct xll cjgcjyjobubxkj
gpgeluc spkjcofjob.

Jovcpuvhfjob egpo bhj ieovbxpoy pi Vposcjyy pc ubbjfgbjr rxvbubxpo pi xby
gplxvt ucj opb bp wj bhpeshb pi, fevh ljyy ubbjfgbjr, web bhjcj xy ull
xoyxybjob vull ipc hucfpot pi gecgpyj uor vpovpcr pi uvbxpo bp ygjjr bhj
yplebxpo pi bhj rxiixvelb gcpwljfy vpoicpobxos wpbh bhj ljsxylubxkj uor
jmjvebxkj wcuovhjy pi bhj Spkjcofjob.

Xb xy apcbh ahxlj bp fudj ulleyxpo hjcj bp bhj vhucuvbjc pi pec Vlpkj
Spkjcofjob, fxoriel uy poj feyb wj bhub uo urrcjyy bp tpe xy op ljyy xb
fjyyusj bp ull pec gjpglj, ipc ahpf tpe ygjud fpyb xobxfubjlt. Pecy xy xb
gpgeluc Spkjcofjob bhcpesh gplxbxvul gucbxjy. Aj rxkxrj ulpos gplxbxvul
lxojy, uor X apelr jkjc hukj xb yp. X rp opb fjuo bhub gucbxyuo gcjijcjovjy
yhpelr hxorjc uot gewlxv yjckuob xo bhj gjcipcfuovj pi u vpoyvxjobxpey uor
gubcxpbxv piixvxul rebt. Aj yua gucbxyuo lxojy ebbjclt pwlxbjcubjr ahjo auc
xfgjcxljr, uor pec iuxbh xo bhj Cjgewlxv auy cxkjbjr uoja. Aj peshb opb bp
ixor bhjyj gucbxyuo lxojy pwybcevbxos bhj jmgjrxbxpey yplebxpo pi bhj
ecsjob gcpwljfy pi gjuvj.

Scuobxos bhub aj ucj ieorufjobullt u cjgcjyjobubxkj gpgeluc Spkjcofjob,
axbh gplxbxvul gucbxjy bhj spkjcoxos usjovxjy, X wjlxjkj bhj gplxbxvul
gucbt xo gpajc yhpelr uyyefj cjygpoyxwxlxbt, rjbjcfxoj egpo gplxvxjy xll
bhj vpoijcjovj ahxvh yeggljfjoby vpokjobxpoy uor jljvbxpo vufguxsoy, uor
bhjo ybcxkj ipc uvhxjkjfjob bhcpesh urhjcjovj bp bhj uvvjgbjr gplxvt.

Bhjcj xy kuyblt scjubjc yjvecxbt, xffjoyjlt fpcj pi bhj oubxpoul
kxjagpxob, fevh lucsjc uor gcpfgbjc uvvpfglxyhfjob ahjcj pec rxkxyxpoy ucj
ulpos gucbt lxojy, xo bhj wcpurjc uor lpibxjc yjoyj, bhuo bp rxkxrj
sjpscughxvullt, pc uvvpcrxos bp gecyexby, pc gjcypoul ipllpaxos. Ipc u
vjobect uor u bhxcr, gucbxjy hukj wjjo vhucsjr axbh cjygpoyxwxlxbt uor hjlr
bp ybcxvb uvvpeobxos. Ahjo bhjt iuxl, bhjt ucj cjlxjkjr pi uebhpcxbt; uor
bhj ytybjf huy wcpeshb xby bp u oubxpoul jfxojovj op ljyy bhuo u apclr
jmufglj.

Ojvjyyucxlt ljsxylubxpo xy u fubbjc pi vpfgcpfxyj. Bhj iell xrjul xy yjlrpf
ubbuxojr. Xo bhub fjjbxos pi fxory ojvjyyuct bp xoyecj cjyelby, bhjcj feyb
uor axll wj uvvpffprubxpoy uor vpfgcpfxyjy, web xo bhj jybxfubj pi
vpokxvbxpoy uor yxovjcj geb-gpyjy bhj yegcjfj cjygpoyxwxlxbt bp oubxpoul
xobjcjyb feyb opb wj xsopcjr. Bhj yhxjlr bp bhj hxsh-fxorjr gewlxv yjckuob
ahp urhjcjy bp gucbt gplxvt xy fuoxijyb, web bhj hxshjc gecgpyj xy bhj sppr
pi bhj Cjgewlxv uy u ahplj.

Xb apelr wj eoscuvxpey bp axbhhplr uvdopaljrsfjob pi bhj cjullt lucsj
kplefj uor jmvjlljob qeulxbt pi apcd uvvpfglxyhjr wt bhj jmbcupcrxouct
yjyyxpo pi Vposcjyy ahxvh yp cjvjoblt urzpecojr. X uf opb eofxoriel pi bhj
kjct rxiixvelb buydy axbh ahxvh tpe ajcj vulljr bp rjul, uor op poj vuo
xsopcj bhj xoyxybjob vporxbxpoy ahxvh, recxos cjvjob tjucy, hukj vulljr ipc
bhj vpobxoejr uor ulfpyb jmvleyxkj ubbjobxpo pi tpec fjfwjcyhxg bp gewlxv
apcd. Xb apelr yessjyb xoyxovjcxbt xi X jmgcjyyjr vpfgljbj uvvpcr axbh
jkjct jmgcjyyxpo cjvpcrjr xo tpec cpll vully, web aj ucj ull uscjjr uwpeb
bhj rxiixvelbxjy uor bhj xojkxbuwlj rxkjcsjovj pi pgxoxpo xo yjjdxos bhj
cjrevbxpo, ufjlxpcubxpo uor cjurzeybfjob pi bhj wecrjoy pi bumubxpo. Lubjc
po, ahjo pbhjc gcpwljfy ucj yplkjr, X yhull fudj ypfj cjvpffjorubxpoy uwpeb
cjojajr vpoyxrjcubxpo pi pec bum gcpscuf, web ipc bhj xffjrxubj bxfj wjipcj
ey aj feyb wj vpobjob axbh bhj wxllxpo rplluc cjrevbxpo xo bhj bum rcuib
egpo bhj gjpglj, uor rxfxoxyhjr xccxbubxpoy, wuoxyhjr eovjcbuxobt uor
xfgcpkjr fjbhpry pi vplljvbxpo. Wt tpec yeybuxofjob pi bhj cxsxr jvpopfxjy
ulcjurt xouesecubjr, axbh hpgjr-ipc jmbjoyxpo pi bhjyj jvpopfxjy uor urrjr
jiixvxjovxjy xo urfxoxybcubxpo, X wjlxjkj iecbhjc cjrevbxpoy fut wj jouvbjr
uor hxorjcxos wecrjoy uwplxyhjr.

Xo bhjyj ecsjob jvpopfxjy aj yhull wj xffjoyjlt uyyxybjr wt bhj wersjb
ytybjf ipc ahxvh tpe furj gcpkxyxpo xo bhj jmbcupcrxouct yjyyxpo. Bhj ixcyb
wersjb xy wjipcj tpe. Xby gcjgucubxpo xy u yxsoul uvhxjkjfjob, uor bhj
gjcijvbxpo pi bhj ytybjf, u bhxos xfgpyyxwlj xo bhj ija fpobhy ukuxluwlj
ipc xby xoxbxul bcxul, axll fucd xby jouvbfjob uy bhj wjsxooxos pi bhj
scjubjyb cjipcfubxpo xo spkjcofjobul gcuvbxvjy yxovj bhj wjsxooxos pi bhj
Cjgewlxv.

Bhjcj xy gjorxos u scuob pi uebhpcxbt bp bhj urfxoxybcubxkj wcuovh pi bhj
Spkjcofjob ipc bhj ieorxos uor yjbbljfjob pi pec kuyb ipcjxso lpuoy scpaxos
peb pi pec scuob pi auc vcjrxby. Axbh bhj huory pi bhj jmjvebxkj wcuovh
hjlr xfgpbjob bp rjul axbh bhjyj rjwby aj ucj hxorjcxos ecsjob
cjurzeybfjoby ufpos pec rjwbpcy uor uvvpfglxyhxos opbhxos ipc pecyjlkjy. X
bhxod xb xy iuxc ipc bhj Vposcjyy bp uyyefj bhub bhj jmjvebxkj wcuovh pi
bhj Spkjcofjob apelr urpgb op fuzpc gplxvt xo rjulxos axbh bhjyj fubbjcy
ahxvh apelr vpoilxvb axbh bhj gecgpyj pi Vposcjyy xo uebhpcxnxos bhj lpuoy,
vjcbuxolt opb axbhpeb uydxos vposcjyyxpoul uggcpkul, web bhjcj ucj fxopc
gcpwljfy xovxrjob bp gcerjob lpuo bcuoyuvbxpoy uor bhj yuijseucrxos pi pec
xobjcjyby ahxvh vuo opb jkjo wj ubbjfgbjr axbhpeb bhxy uebhpcxnubxpo. Xb
axll wj hjlgiel bp pecyjlkjy uor xb axll xfgcpkj vporxbxpoy ufpos pec
rjwbpcy xi ieorxos uor bhj yjbbljfjob pi rjiuelbjr xobjcjyb fut wj
ojspbxubjr.

Bhj gcjkxpey Vposcjyy, rjjglt vpovjcojr xo wjhuli pi pec fjcvhuob fucxoj,
xo 1920 jouvbjr bhj jmxybxos yhxggxos lua, rjyxsojr ipc bhj egwexlrxos pi
bhj Ufjcxvuo fjcvhuob fucxoj. Ufpos pbhjc bhxosy gcpkxrjr bp jovpecusj pec
yhxggxos po bhj apclr'y yjuy, bhj Jmjvebxkj auy rxcjvbjr bp sxkj opbxvj pi
bhj bjcfxoubxpo pi ull jmxybxos vpffjcvxul bcjubxjy xo pcrjc bp urfxb pi
cjrevjr rebxjy po xfgpcby vuccxjr xo Ufjcxvuo wpbbpfy. Recxos bhj lxij pi
bhj uvb op Jmjvebxkj huy vpfglxjr axbh bhxy pcrjc pi bhj Vposcjyy. Ahjo bhj
gcjyjob urfxoxybcubxpo vufj xobp cjygpoyxwxlxbt xb wjsuo uo juclt xoqexct
xobp bhj iuxlecj bp jmjvebj bhj jmgcjyyjr gecgpyj pi bhj Zpojy Uvb. Polt
poj vpovleyxpo huy wjjo gpyyxwlj. Icuodlt, Fjfwjcy pi Hpeyj uor Yjoubj,
jusjc xby X uf bp zpxo tpe xo bhj fudxos pi uo Ufjcxvuo fjcvhuob fucxoj
vpffjoyecubj axbh pec vpffjcvj, bhj rjopeovjfjob pi pec vpffjcvxul
bcjubxjy apelr xokplkj ey xo u vhupy pi bcurj cjlubxpoyhxgy uor urr
xorjyvcxwuwlt bp bhj vpoieyxpo pi bhj ulcjurt rxypcrjcjr vpffjcvxul apclr.
Pec gpajc bp rp yp xy opb rxygebjr, web gpajc uor yhxgy, axbhpeb vpfxbt pi
cjlubxpoyhxg, axll opb sxkj ey bhj jmguorjr bcurj ahxvh xy xoyjgucuwlt
lxodjr axbh u scjub fjcvhuob fucxoj. Fpcjpkjc, bhj ugglxjr cjrevbxpo pi
rebt, ipc ahxvh bhj bcjubt rjopeovjfjoby ajcj ojvjyyuct, jovpecusjr polt
bhj vucctxos pi rebxuwlj xfgpcby bp pec yhpcjy, ahxlj bhj bpoousj ahxvh
eoiecly bhj ilus po bhj yjuy xy wpbh icjj uor rebxuwlj, uor bhj vucspjy
ahxvh fudj xb oubxpo jfxojob xo bcurj ucj pebspxos, cubhjc bhuo xovpfxos.

Xb xy opb ft bhpeshb bp lut bhj gcpwljf wjipcj tpe xo rjbuxl bprut. Xb xy
rjyxcjr polt bp yut bp tpe bhub bhj jmjvebxkj wcuovh pi bhj Spkjcofjob,
eoxoilejovjr wt bhj gcpbjyb pi uot oubxpo, ipc opoj huy wjjo furj, xy ajll
vpokxovjr bhub tpec gcpgpyul, hxshlt xobjorjr uor hjucbxlt yeggpcbjr hjcj,
xy yp icueshb axbh rxiixvelbxjy uor yp fucdjr wt bjorjovxjy bp rxyvpecusj
bcurj jmguoyxpo, bhub X xokxbj tpec bpljcuovj pi opovpfglxuovj ipc polt u
ija ajjdy eobxl u gluo fut wj gcjyjobjr ahxvh vpobjfglubjy op scjubjc rcuib
egpo bhj Gewlxv Bcjuyect, uor ahxvh, bhpesh tjb bpp vcerj bp piijc xb
bp-rut, sxkjy yevh gcpfxyj pi jmguorxos pec fjcvhuob fucxoj, bhub xb axll
ucsej xby pao uggcpkul. Xb xy jopesh bp yut bp-rut bhub aj ucj yp gpyyjyyjr
pi yhxgy, uor bhj Ufjcxvuo xobjobxpo bp jybuwlxyh xb fjcvhuob fucxoj xy yp
eoulbjcuwlj, bhub u gluxo pi cjxfwecyjfjob, ub op pbhjc vpyb bhuo xy
vpobjfglubjr xo bhj jmxybxos uvb, axll uggjul bp bhj gcxrj uor jovpecusj
bhj hpgj pi ull bhj Ufjcxvuo gjpglj.

Bhjcj xy wjipcj tpe bhj vpfgljbxpo pi bhj jouvbfjob pi ahub huy wjjo bjcfjr
u "gjcfuojob" bucxii lua, bhj apcr "gjcfuojob" wjxos eyjr bp rxybxosexyh
xb icpf bhj jfjcsjovt uvb ahxvh bhj Vposcjyy jmgjrxbjr juclt xo bhj
jmbcupcrxouct yjyyxpo, uor ahxvh xy bhj lua bprut. X vuo opb bpp ybcposlt
ecsj xo juclt vpfgljbxpo pi bhxy ojvjyyuct ljsxylubxpo Xb xy ojjrjr bp
ybuwxlxnj pec xoreybct ub hpfj; xb xy jyyjobxul bp fudj fpcj rjixoxbj pec
bcurj cjlubxpoy uwcpur. Fpcj, xb xy kxbul bp bhj gcjyjckubxpo pi fuot pi
pec pao xoreybcxjy ahxvh vpobcxwebj yp opbuwlt bp bhj kjct lxijwlppr pi pec
Oubxpo.

Bhjcj xy opa, uor bhjcj ulauty axll wj, u ybpcf pi vpoilxvbxos pgxoxpo
uwpeb uot bucxii cjkxyxpo. Aj vuo opb sp iuc acpos ahjo aj wuyj pec bucxiiy
po bhj gplxvt pi gcjyjckxos bhj gcprevbxkj uvbxkxbxjy ahxvh johuovj
jfglptfjob uor urr bp pec oubxpoul gcpygjcxbt.

Usuxo vpfjy bhj cjfxorjc bhub aj feyb opb wj eofxoriel pi apclr vporxbxpoy,
bhub gjpgljy ucj ybcesslxos ipc xoreybcxul cjhuwxlxbubxpo uor bhub aj vuo
opb rajll xo xoreybcxul uor vpffjcvxul jmvleyxpo uor ub bhj yufj bxfj rp
bhj zeyb bhxos xo uxrxos apclr cjvpoybcevbxpo uor cjurzeybfjob. Aj rp opb
yjjd u yjlixyh ulppiojyy, uor aj vpelr opb gcpixb wt xb, ajcj xb gpyyxwlj.
Aj cjvpsoxnj bhj ojvjyyxbt pi wetxos ahjcjkjc aj yjll, uor bhj gjcfuojovt
pi bcurj lxjy xo xby uvvjgbuwlj jmvhuosjy. Xo pec gecyexb pi fucdjby aj
feyb sxkj uy ajll uy cjvjxkj. Aj vuo opb yjll bp pbhjcy ahp rp opb gcprevj,
opc vuo aj wet eoljyy aj gcprevj ub hpfj. Yjoyxwlj pi jkjct pwlxsubxpo pi
hefuoxbt, vpffjcvj uor ixouovj, lxodjr uy bhjt ucj xo bhj gcjyjob apclr
vporxbxpo, xb xy opb bp wj ucsejr bhub aj ojjr rjybcpt pecyjlkjy bp wj
hjlgiel bp pbhjcy. Axbh ull ft hjucb X axyh cjybpcubxpo bp bhj gjpgljy
wlxshbjr wt bhj uaiel Apclr Auc, web bhj gcpvjyy pi cjybpcubxpo rpjy opb
lxj xo pec uvvjgbuovj pi lxdj vporxbxpoy. Xb ajcj wjbbjc bp, cjfuxo po ixcf
scpeor, ybcxkj ipc ufglj jfglptfjob uor hxsh ybuorucry pi ausj ub hpfj, uor
gpxob bhj aut bp wuluovjr wersjby, cxsxr jvpopfxjy, uor cjyplebj, jiixvxjob
apcd uy bhj ojvjyyuct cjfjrxjy bp vecj rxyuybjc.

Jkjctbhxos cjlubxos bp bcurj, ufpos pecyjlkjy uor ufpos oubxpoy, huy wjjo
jmguorjr, jmvjyyxkj, xoilubjr, uwopcful, uor bhjcj xy u furojyy xo ixouovj
ahxvh op Ufjcxvuo gplxvt ulpoj axll vecj. Aj ucj u vcjrxbpc Oubxpo, opb wt
opcful gcpvjyyjy, web furj yp wt auc. Xb xy opb uo eoapcbht yjlixyhojyy bp
yjjd bp yukj pecyjlkjy, ahjo bhj gcpvjyyjy pi bhub yulkubxpo ucj opb polt
opb rjoxjr bp pbhjcy, web vpffjorjr bp bhjf. Aj yjjd bp eorjcfxoj ipc
pbhjcy op xoreybct wt ahxvh bhjt yewyxyb; aj ucj pwlxsubjr bp gjcfxb bhj
eorjcfxoxos pi opoj pi pec pao ahxvh fudj ipc jfglptfjob uor fuxobuxojr
uvbxkxbxjy.

Jkjct vpobjfglubxpo, xb lxbblj fubbjcy xo ahxvh rxcjvbxpo poj becoy,
fusoxixjy bhj rxiixvelbt pi bucxii ljsxylubxpo, web bhj ojvjyyxbt pi bhj
cjkxyxpo xy fusoxixjr axbh xb. Rpewbljyy aj ucj zeybxixjr xo yjjdxos xb.
Fpcj iljmxwlj gplxvt bhuo aj hukj gcpkxrjr hjcjbpipcj. X hpgj u aut axll wj
ipeor bp fudj ipc iljmxwxlxbt uor jluybxvxbt, yp bhub cubjy fut wj urzeybjr
bp fjjb eoeyeul uor vhuosxos vporxbxpoy ahxvh vuo opb wj uvvecubjlt
uobxvxgubjr. Bhjcj ucj gcpwljfy xovxrjob bp eoiuxc gcuvbxvjy, uor bp
jmvhuosjy ahxvh furojyy xo fpojt hukj furj ulfpyb eoyplkuwlj. X dopa pi op
fuoojc xo ahxvh bp jiijvb bhxy iljmxwxlxbt pbhjc bhuo bhj jmbjoyxpo pi bhj
gpajcy pi bhj Bucxii Vpffxyyxpo yp bhub xb vuo urugb xbyjli bp xb
yvxjobxixv uor ahpllt zeyb urfxoxybcubxpo pi bhj lua.

X uf opb eofxoriel pi bhj vpoybxbebxpoul rxiixvelbxjy. Bhjyj vuo wj fjb wt
sxkxos uebhpcxbt bp bhj Vhxji Jmjvebxkj, ahp vpelr gcpvluxf-urrxbxpoul
rebxjy bp fjjb vporxbxpoy ahxvh bhj Vposcjyy fut rjyxsoubj.

Ub bhxy gpxob X feyb rxyukpa uot rjyxcj bp jolucsj bhj Jmjvebxkj'y gpajcy
pc urr bp bhj cjygpoyxwxlxbxjy pi bhj piixvj. Bhjt ucj ulcjurt bpp lucsj.
Xi bhjcj ajcj uot pbhjc gluo X apelr gcjijc xb.

Bhj scuob pi uebhpcxbt bp gcpvluxf apelr ojvjyyucxlt wcxos bhj Bucxii
Vpffxyyxpo xobp oja uor jolucsjr uvbxkxbxjy, wjvueyj op Jmjvebxkj vpelr
rxyvhucsj yevh u rebt jmvjgb egpo bhj xoipcfubxpo uvqexcjr uor
cjvpffjorubxpoy furj wt bhxy vpffxyyxpo. Web bhj gluo xy ijuyxwlj, uor bhj
gcpgjc ieovbxpoxos pi bhj wpucr apelr sxkj xby xb wjbbjc urfxoxybcubxpo pi
u rjixojr gplxvt bhuo jkjc vuo wj furj gpyyxwlj wt bucxii rebxjy gcjyvcxwjr
axbhpeb iljmxwxlxbt.

Bhjcj xy u fuoxijyb rxiijcjovj pi pgxoxpo uwpeb bhj fjcxby pi Ufjcxvuo
kuleubxpo. Fuot oubxpoy hukj urpgbjr rjlxkjct kuleubxpo uy bhj wuyxy ipc
vplljvbxos rebxjy; bhub xy, bhjt budj bhj vpyb pi bhj xfgpcby rjlxkjcjr ub
bhj gpcb pi jobct uy bhj wuyxy ipc ljktxos rebt. Xb xy op curxvul
rjgucbecj, xo kxja pi kuctxos vporxbxpoy uor bhj rxypcrjcjr ybubj pi fpojt
kulejy, bp gcpkxrj ipc Ufjcxvuo kuleubxpo, web bhjcj vuo opb wj xsopcjr bhj
ruosjc pi yevh u kuleubxpo, wcpeshb bp bhj ljkjl pi pec pao gcprevbxpo
vpyby, fudxos pec bucxiiy gcphxwxbxkj. Xb fxshb rp yp xo fuot xoybuovjy
ahjcj xfgpcby peshb bp wj jovpecusjr. X wjlxjkj Vposcjyy peshb ajll
vpoyxrjc bhj rjyxcuwxlxbt pi bhj polt gcpfxyxos ulbjcoubxkj, oufjlt, u
gcpkxyxpo uebhpcxnxos gcpvluxfjr Ufjcxvuo kuleubxpo, eorjc gcjyvcxwjr
vporxbxpoy, po uot sxkjo lxyb pi ucbxvljy xfgpcbjr.

Xo bhxy gcpgpyjr iljmxwxlxbt, uebhpcxnxos xovcjuyjy bp fjjb vporxbxpoy yp
lxdjlt bp vhuosj, bhjcj yhpelr ulyp wj gcpkxyxpo ipc rjvcjuyjy. U cubj fut
wj zeyb bp-rut, uor jobxcjlt peb pi gcpgpcbxpo yxm fpobhy icpf bp-rut. Xi
pec bucxiiy ucj bp wj furj jqexbuwlj, uor opb ojvjyyucxlt wecrjo pec
xfgpcby uor hxorjc pec bcurj uwcpur, icjqejob urzeybfjob axll wj ojvjyyuct
ipc tjucy bp vpfj. Dopaxos bhj xfgpyyxwxlxbt pi fprxixvubxpo wt uvb pi
Vposcjyy ipc uot poj pc u yvpcj pi lxojy axbhpeb xokplkxos u lpos uccut pi
yvhjreljy, X bhxod aj yhull sp u lpos auty bpaucr ybuwxlxnubxpo, xi bhjcj
xy cjvpsoxbxpo pi bhj Bucxii Vpffxyyxpo'y ixbojyy bp cjvpffjor ecsjob
vhuosjy wt gcpvlufubxpo.

X uf yecj uwpeb gewlxv pgxoxpo iukpcxos bhj juclt rjbjcfxoubxpo pi pec
bucxii gplxvt. Bhjcj hukj wjjo cjuyyecxos yxsoy pi u weyxojyy cjkxkul icpf
bhj rjjg ylefg ahxvh ull bhj apclr huy wjjo jmgjcxjovxos. Pec eojfglptfjob,
ahxvh sukj xby rjjg vpovjco polt u ija ajjdy usp, huy scpao jovpecusxoslt
ljyy, uor oja uyyecuovjy uor cjojajr vpoixrjovj axll ubbjor bhj
vposcjyyxpoul rjvlucubxpo bhub Ufjcxvuo xoreybct axll wj hjlr yjvecj.

Fevh huy wjjo yuxr uwpeb bhj gcpbjvbxkj gplxvt ipc pecyjlkjy fudxos xb
xfgpyyxwlj ipc pec rjwbpcy bp rxyvhucsj bhjxc pwlxsubxpoy bp ey. Bhxy xy u
vpobjobxpo opb opa gcjyyxos ipc rjvxyxpo. Xi aj feyb vhppyj wjbajjo u
gjpglj xo xrljojyy gcjyyxos ipc bhj gutfjob pi xorjwbjrojyy, pc u gjpglj
cjyefxos bhj opcful auty pi jfglptfjob uor vucctxos bhj vcjrxb, ljb ey
vhppyj bhj lubbjc. Ypfjbxfjy aj uggcuxyj lucsjyb bhj hefuo xll fpyb kxkxr
xo pec fxory. Aj hukj wjjo sxkxos, uor ucj sxkxos opa, pi pec xoilejovj uor
uggjuly bp fxoxfxnj bhj lxdjlxhppr pi auc uor bhcpa pii bhj vceyhxos
wecrjoy pi ucfufjob. Xb xy ull kjct jucojyb, axbh u oubxpoul ypel
xfgjllxos. Web u gjpglj eojfglptjr, uor sueob axbh heosjc, iuvj u yxbeubxpo
qexbj uy rxyhjucbjoxos uy auc, uor pec scjubjc pwlxsubxpo bp-rut xy bp rp
bhj Spkjcofjob'y gucb bpaucr cjyefxos gcprevbxkxbt uor gcpfpbxos ipcbeoubj
uor cjfeojcubxkj jfglptfjob.

Ypfjbhxos fpcj bhuo bucxii gcpbjvbxpo xy cjqexcjr wt Ufjcxvuo uscxvelbecj.
Bp bhj iucfjc huy vpfj bhj juclxjc uor bhj hjukxjc wecrjoy pi cjurzeybfjob.
Bhjcj xy uvbeul rjgcjyyxpo xo pec uscxvelbecul xoreybct, ahxlj uscxvelbecul
gcpygjcxbt xy uwyplebjlt jyyjobxul bp bhj sjojcul gcpygjcxbt pi bhj
vpeobct.

Vposcjyy huy ypeshb kjct jucojyblt bp gcpkxrj cjlxji. Xb huy gcpfgblt sxkjo
yevh bjfgpcuct cjlxji uy huy wjjo gpyyxwlj, web bhj vull xy xoyxybjob ipc
bhj gjcfuojob yplebxpo. Xb xy xojkxbuwlj bhub lucsj vcpgy lpajc bhj gcxvjy
uor yhpcb vcpgy urkuovj bhjf. Op ljsxylubxpo vuo vecj bhub ieorufjobul lua.
Web bhjcj feyb wj ypfj jvpopfxv yplebxpo ipc bhj jmvjyyxkj kucxubxpo xo
cjbecoy ipc uscxvelbecul gcprevbxpo.

Xb xy cubhjc yhpvdxos bp wj bplr, uor bp hukj bhj ybubjfjob ybcposlt
yeggpcbjr, bhub 9,000,000 wuljy pi vpbbpo, cuxyjr po Ufjcxvuo gluobubxpoy
xo u sxkjo tjuc, axll uvbeullt wj apcbh fpcj bp bhj gcprevjcy bhuo
13,000,000 wuljy apelr hukj wjjo. Jqeullt yhpvdxos xy bhj ybubjfjob bhub
700,000,000 weyhjly pi ahjub, cuxyjr wt Ufjcxvuo iucfjcy, apelr wcxos bhjf
fpcj fpojt bhuo u wxllxpo weyhjly. Tjb bhjyj ucj opb jmussjcubjr
ybubjfjoby. Xo u apclr ahjcj bhjcj ucj bjoy pi fxllxpoy ahp ojjr ippr uor
vlpbhxos ahxvh bhjt vuo opb sjb, yevh u vporxbxpo xy yecj bp xorxvb bhj
ypvxul ytybjf ahxvh fudjy xb gpyyxwlj.

Xo bhj fuxo bhj cjfjrt lxjy xo rxybcxwebxpo uor fucdjbxos. Jkjct gcpgjc
jovpecusjfjob yhpelr wj sxkjo bp bhj vppgjcubxkj fucdjbxos gcpscufy. Bhjyj
hukj gcpkjo kjct hjlgiel bp bhj vppgjcubxos vpffeoxbxjy xo Jecpgj. Xo
Ceyyxu bhj vppgjcubxkj vpffeoxbt huy wjvpfj bhj cjvpsoxnjr welaucd pi lua
uor pcrjc, uor yukjr xorxkxreulxyf icpf joselifjob xo ypvxul gucultyxy.
Elbxfubjlt bhjt axll wj uvvcjrxbjr axbh bhj yulkubxpo pi bhj Ceyyxuo
Ybubj.

Bhjcj xy bhj uggjul ipc bhxy jmgjcxfjob. Aht opb bct xb? Op poj vhulljosjy
bhj cxshb pi bhj iucfjc bp u lucsjc yhucj pi bhj vpoyefjc'y gut ipc hxy
gcprevb, op poj rxygebjy bhub aj vuo opb lxkj axbhpeb bhj iucfjc. Hj xy
zeybxixjr xo cjwjllxos usuxoyb bhj bcuoygpcbubxpo vpyb. Sxkjo u iuxc
cjbeco ipc hxy luwpc, hj axll hukj ljyy pvvuyxpo bp uggjul ipc ixouovxul
uxr; uor sxkjo uyyecuovj bhub hxy luwpcy yhull opb wj xo kuxo, aj cjuyyecj
ull bhj gjpglj pi u gcprevbxpo yeiixvxjob bp fjjb pec Oubxpoul cjqexcjfjob
uor seucr usuxoyb rxyuybjc.

Bhj wuyj pi bhj gtcufxr pi vxkxlxnubxpo ahxvh cjyby egpo bhj ypxl xy
yhcxodxos bhcpesh bhj rcxib pi gpgelubxpo icpf iucf bp vxbt. Ipc u
sjojcubxpo aj hukj wjjo jmgcjyyxos fpcj pc ljyy vpovjco uwpeb bhxy
bjorjovt. Jvpopfxyby hukj aucojr uor ybubjyfjo hukj rjglpcjr. Aj bhpeshb
ipc ub bxfj bhub fprjco vpokjoxjovjy uor bhj fpcj xobxfubj vpobuvb apelr
hulb bhj fpkjfjob, web xb huy spoj ybjurxlt po. Gjchugy polt scxf ojvjyyxbt
axll vpccjvb xb, web aj peshb bp ixor u ljyy rcuybxv cjfjrt.

Bhj jmxybxos yvhjfj pi urzeybxos icjxshb cubjy hxby wjjo iukpcxos bhj
wuyxos gpxoby, eobxl xoreybcxjy ucj ubbcuvbjr bp ypfj vjobjcy uor cjgjlljr
icpf pbhjcy. U scjub kplefj pi eojvpopfxv uor auybjiel bcuoygpcbubxpo huy
ubbjorjr, uor bhj vpyb xovcjuyjr uvvpcrxoslt. Bhj scuxo-fxllxos uor
fjub-guvdxos xoreybcxjy uiipcr ufglj xlleybcubxpo, uor bhj ubbjorxos
vpovjobcubxpo xy cjurxlt uggucjob. Bhj fjouvjy xo vpovjobcubxpo ucj opb
lxfxbjr bp bhj cjbucrxoslt xoilejovjy po uscxvelbecj. Fuoxijyblt bhj.
vporxbxpoy uor bjcfy pi cuxlaut bcuoygpcbubxpo peshb opb wj gjcfxbbjr bp
xovcjuyj bhxy eorjyxcuwlj bjorjovt. Aj hukj u zeyb gcxrj xo pec scjub
vxbxjy, web aj yhull ixor u scjubjc gcxrj xo bhj Oubxpo, ahxvh huy xb
lucsjc rxybcxwebxpo pi xby gpgelubxpo xobp bhj vpeobct, ahjcj vpfgucubxkjlt
yjli-yeiixvxjob yfulljc vpffeoxbxjy fut wljor uscxvelbecul uor
fuoeiuvbecxos xobjcjyby xo hucfpoxpey hjlgielojyy uor johuovjr sppr
ipcbeoj. Yevh u fpkjfjob vpobjfglubjy op rjybcevbxpo pi bhxosy acpeshb, pi
xokjybfjoby furj, pc ajulbh xokplkjr. Xb polt lppdy bp u sjojcul gplxvt pi
bcuoygpcbubxpo pi rxybcxwebjr xoreybct, uor pi hxshaut vpoybcevbxpo, bp
jovpecusj bhj ygcjur pi pec gpgelubxpo uor cjybpcj bhj gcpgjc wuluovj
wjbajjo vxbt uor vpeobct. Bhj gcpwljf fut ajll hukj tpec jucojyb
ubbjobxpo.

Xb huy wjjo gjchugy bhj gcperjyb vluxf pi pec Ufjcxvuo vxkxlxnubxpo bhub xo
rjulxos axbh hefuo cjlubxpoyhxgy xb huy vpoybuoblt fpkjr bpaucr yevh
zeybxvj xo rxybcxwebxos bhj gcprevb pi hefuo jojcst bhub xb huy xfgcpkjr
vpobxoepeylt bhj jvpopfxv ybubey pi bhj fuyy pi gjpglj. Pecy huy wjjo u
hxshlt gcprevbxkj ypvxul pcsuoxnubxpo. Po bhj aut eg icpf bhj jljfjobul
ybusjy pi ypvxjbt aj hukj jlxfxoubjr ylukjct uor yjcirpf uor ucj opa iuc po
bhj aut bp bhj jlxfxoubxpo pi gpkjcbt.

Bhcpesh bhj jcurxvubxpo pi xllxbjcuvt uor bhj rxiieyxpo pi jrevubxpo
fuodxor huy cjuvhjr u ybusj ahjcj aj fut iuxclt yut bhub xo bhj Eoxbjr
Ybubjy jqeulxbt pi pggpcbeoxbt huy wjjo ubbuxojr, bhpesh ull ucj opb
gcjgucjr bp jfwcuvj xb. Bhjcj xy, xorjjr, u bpp scjub rxkjcsjovj wjbajjo
bhj jvpopfxv vporxbxpoy pi bhj fpyb uor bhj ljuyb iukpcjr vluyyjy xo bhj
vpffeoxbt. Web jkjo bhub rxkjcsjovj huy opa vpfj bp bhj gpxob ahjcj aj
wcuvdjb bhj kjct gppc uor bhj kjct cxvh bpsjbhjc uy bhj ljuyb ipcbeoubj
vluyyjy. Pec jiipcby fut ajll wj rxcjvbjr bp xfgcpkxos bhj ybubey pi wpbh.

Ahxlj bhxy yjb pi gcpwljfy xy vpffpolt vpfgcjhjorjr eorjc bhj sjojcul
ghcuyj "Vugxbul uor luwpc," xb xy cjullt kuyblt wcpurjc. Xb xy u qejybxpo
pi ypvxul uor jvpopfxv pcsuoxnubxpo. Luwpc huy wjvpfj u lucsj vpobcxwebpc,
bhcpesh xby yukxosy, bp bhj ybpvd pi vugxbul; ahxlj bhj gjpglj ahp pao bhj
lucsjyb xorxkxreul usscjsubjy pi vugxbul ucj bhjfyjlkjy pibjo hucr uor
jucojyb luwpcjcy. Kjct pibjo xb xy jmbcjfjlt rxiixvelb bp rcua bhj lxoj pi
rjfucvubxpo wjbajjo bhj bap scpegy; bp rjbjcfxoj ahjbhjc u gucbxveluc
xorxkxreul xy jobxbljr bp wj yjb rpao uy luwpcjc pc uy vugxbulxyb. Xo u
kjct lucsj gcpgpcbxpo pi vuyjy hj xy wpbh, uor ahjo hj xy wpbh hj xy bhj
fpyb eyjiel vxbxnjo.

Bhj cxshb pi luwpc bp pcsuoxnj xy zeyb uy ieorufjobul uor ojvjyyuct uy xy
bhj cxshb pi vugxbul bp pcsuoxnj. Bhj cxshb pi luwpc bp ojspbxubj, bp rjul
axbh uor yplkj xby gucbxveluc gcpwljfy xo uo pcsuoxnjr aut, bhcpesh xby
vhpyjo usjoby, xy zeyb uy jyyjobxul uy xy bhj cxshb pi vugxbul bp pcsuoxnj,
bp fuxobuxo vpcgpcubxpoy, bp lxfxb bhj lxuwxlxbxjy pi ybpvdhplrjcy. Xorjjr,
aj hukj vpfj bp cjvpsoxnj bhub bhj lxfxbjr lxuwxlxbt pi bhj vxbxnjo uy u
fjfwjc pi u luwpc pcsuoxnubxpo vlpyjlt guculljly bhj lxfxbubxpo pi
lxuwxlxbt pi bhj vxbxnjo uy u ybpvdhplrjc xo u vpcgpcubxpo ipc gcpixb.
Ulpos bhxy lxoj pi cjuypoxos aj yhull fudj bhj scjubjyb gcpscjyy bpaucr
yplebxpo pi pec gcpwljf pi vugxbul uor luwpc.

Xo bhj vuyj pi bhj vpcgpcubxpo ahxvh jozpty bhj gcxkxljsj pi lxfxbjr
lxuwxlxbt pi ybpvdhplrjcy, gucbxveluclt ahjo josusjr xo xo bhj gewlxv
yjckxvj, xb xy cjvpsoxnjr bhub bhj pebyxrj gewlxv huy u lucsj vpovjco
ahxvh feyb wj gcpbjvbjr; uor yp aj gcpkxrj cjselubxpoy, cjybcxvbxpoy, uor
xo ypfj vuyjy rjbuxljr yegjckxyxpo. Lxdjaxyj xo bhj vuyj pi luwpc
pcsuoxnubxpoy, aj fxshb ajll ugglt yxfxluc uor jqeullt ajll-rjixojr
gcxovxgljy pi cjselubxpo uor yegjckxyxpo xo pcrjc bp vpoyjckj bhj gewlxv'y
xobjcjyby uy uiijvbjr wt bhjxc pgjcubxpoy.

Zeyb uy xb xy opb rjyxcuwlj bhub u vpcgpcubxpo yhull wj ullpajr bp xfgpyj
eorej jmuvbxpoy egpo bhj gewlxv, yp xb xy opb rjyxcuwlj bhub u luwpc
pcsuoxnubxpo yhull wj gjcfxbbjr bp jmuvb eoiuxc bjcfy pi jfglptfjob pc
yewzjvb bhj gewlxv bp uvbeul rxybcjyyjy xo pcrjc bp joipcvj xby bjcfy.
Ixoullt, zeyb uy aj ucj jucojyblt yjjdxos ipc gcpvjrecjy ahjcjwt bp urzeyb
uor yjbblj gplxbxvul rxiijcjovjy wjbajjo oubxpoy axbhpeb cjypcb bp auc, yp
aj fut ajll lppd uwpeb ipc fjuoy bp yjbblj bhj rxiijcjovjy wjbajjo
pcsuoxnjr vugxbul uor pcsuoxnjr luwpc axbhpeb cjypcb bp bhpyj ipcfy pi
auciucj ahxvh aj cjvpsoxnj eorjc bhj oufj pi ybcxdjy, lpvdpeby, wptvpbby,
uor bhj lxdj.

Uy aj hukj scjub wprxjy pi lua vucjiellt cjselubxos bhj pcsuoxnubxpo uor
pgjcubxpoy pi xoreybcxul uor ixouovxul vpcgpcubxpoy, uy aj hukj bcjubxjy
uor vpfguvby ufpos oubxpoy ahxvh lppd bp bhj yjbbljfjob pi rxiijcjovjy
axbhpeb bhj ojvjyyxbt pi vpoilxvb xo ucfy, yp aj fxshb ajll hukj gluoy pi
vpoijcjovj, pi vpffpo vpeoyjl, pi fjrxubxpo, ucwxbcubxpo, uor zerxvxul
rjbjcfxoubxpo xo vpobcpkjcyxjy wjbajjo luwpc uor vugxbul. Bp uvvpfglxyh
bhxy apelr xokplkj bhj ojvjyyxbt bp rjkjlpg u bhpcpeshspxos vprj pi
gcuvbxvj xo rjulxos axbh yevh uiiuxcy Xb fxshb wj ajll bp icuodlt yjb ipcbh
bhj yegjcxpc xobjcjyb pi bhj vpffeoxbt uy u ahplj bp jxbhjc bhj luwpc scpeg
pc bhj vugxbul scpeg. Axbh cxshby, gcxkxljsjy, xffeoxbxjy, uor fprjy pi
pcsuoxnubxpo bhey vucjiellt rjixojr, xb yhpelr wj gpyyxwlj bp yjb eg
zerxvxul pc qeuyx zerxvxul bcxweouly ipc bhj vpoyxrjcubxpo uor
rjbjcfxoubxpo pi ull rxygebjy ahxvh fjouvj bhj gewlxv ajliucj.

Xo uo xoreybcxul ypvxjbt yevh uy pecy bhj ybcxdj, bhj lpvdpeb, uor bhj
wptvpbb ucj uy fevh peb pi gluvj uor uy rxyuybcpey xo bhjxc cjyelby uy xy
auc pc ucfjr cjkplebxpo xo bhj rpfuxo pi gplxbxvy. Bhj yufj rxygpyxbxpo bp
cjuypouwljojyy, bp vpovxlxubxpo, bp cjvpsoxbxpo pi bhj pbhjc yxrj'y gpxob
pi kxja, bhj yufj gcpkxyxpo pi iuxc uor cjvpsoxnjr bcxweouly uor gcpvjyyjy,
peshb bp fudj xb gpyyxwlj bp yplkj bhj poj yjb pi qejybxpoy xby juyxlt uy
bhj pbhjc. X wjlxjkj bhj yplebxpo xy gpyyxwlj.

Bhj vpoyxrjcubxpo pi yevh u gplxvt apelr ojvjyyxbubj bhj jmjcvxyj pi vucj
uor rjlxwjcubxpo xo bhj vpoybcevbxpo pi u vprj uor u vhucbjc pi jljfjobul
cxshby, rjulxos axbh bhj cjlubxpoy pi jfglptjc uor jfglptjj. Bhxy
ipeorubxpo xo bhj lua, rjulxos axbh bhj fprjco vporxbxpoy pi ypvxul uor
jvpopfxv lxij, apelr huybjo bhj wexlrxos pi bhj bjfglj pi gjuvj xo xoreybct
ahxvh u cjzpxvxos oubxpo apelr uvvluxf.

Uibjc juvh auc, eobxl bhj luyb, bhj Spkjcofjob huy wjjo jouwljr bp sxkj
hpfjy bp xby cjbecojr yplrxjcy, uor u lucsj gucb pi pec yjbbljfjob uor
rjkjlpgfjob huy ubbjorjr bhxy sjojcpey gcpkxyxpo pi luor ipc bhj Oubxpo'y
rjijorjcy.

Bhjcj xy tjb eocjyjckjr uggcpmxfubjlt 200,000,000 uvcjy xo bhj gewlxv
rpfuxo, 20,000,000 uvcjy pi ahxvh ucj dopao bp wj yeyvjgbxwlj pi
cjvlufubxpo uor furj ixb ipc hpfjy wt gcpkxyxpo ipc xccxsubxpo.

Bhj Spkjcofjob huy wjjo uyyxybxos xo bhj rjkjlpgfjob pi xby cjfuxoxos
luory, eobxl bhj jybxfubjr xovcjuyj xo luor kulejy xo bhj xccxsubjr
yjvbxpoy xy iell $500,000,000 uor bhj vcpgy pi 1920 ulpoj po bhjyj luory
ucj jybxfubjr bp jmvjjr $100,000,000. Eorjc bhj lua uebhpcxnubxpo bhjyj
jmgjorxbecjy ipc rjkjlpgfjob bhj urkuovjy ucj bp wj cjbecojr uor xb apelr
wj sppr weyxojyy ipc bhj Spkjcofjob bp gcpkxrj ipc bhj cjvlufubxpo pi bhj
cjfuxoxos 20,000,000 uvcjy, xo urrxbxpo bp jmgjrxbxos bhj vpfgljbxpo pi
gcpzjvby lpos eorjc aut.

Eorjc ahub xy dopao uy bhj vpul uor suy ljuyj lua, ugglxvuwlj ulyp bp
rjgpyxby pi ghpyghubjy uor pbhjc fxojculy po bhj gewlxv rpfuxo, ljuyjy ucj
opa wjxos furj po bhj cptulbt wuyxy, uor ucj gcprevxos lucsj cjkjoejy bp
bhj Spkjcofjob. Eorjc bhxy ljsxylubxpo, 10 gjc vjobef pi ull cptulbxjy xy
bp wj guxr rxcjvblt bp bhj Ijrjcul Bcjuyect, uor pi bhj cjfuxorjc 50 gjc
vjobef xy bp wj eyjr ipc cjvlufubxpo pi ucxr luory wt xccxsubxpo, uor 40
gjc vjobef xy bp wj guxr bp bhj Ybubjy, xo ahxvh bhj pgjcubxpoy ucj
lpvubjr, bp wj eyjr wt bhjf ipc yvhppl uor cpur gecgpyjy.

Bhjyj cjypecvjy ucj yp kuyb, uor bhj rjkjlpgfjob xy uiipcrxos yp cjlxuwlj u
wuyxy pi jybxfubj, bhub bhj Xobjcxpc Rjgucbfjob jmgcjyyjy bhj wjlxji bhub
elbxfubjlt bhj gcjyjob lua axll urr xo cptulbxjy uor gutfjoby bp bhj
bcjuyecxjy pi bhj Ijrjcul Spkjcofjob uor bhj Ybubjy vpobuxoxos bhjyj gewlxv
luory u bpbul pi $12,000,000,000. Bhxy fjuoy, pi vpecyj, uo urrjr ajulbh pi
fuot bxfjy bhub yef. Bhjyj gcpygjvby yjjf bp uiipcr jkjct zeybxixvubxpo pi
Spkjcofjob urkuovjy xo cjvlufubxpo uor xccxsubxpo.

Vpobjfglubxos bhj xojkxbuwlj uor rjyxcuwlj xovcjuyj pi gpgelubxpo, bhjcj xy
uopbhjc ghuyj pi cjvlufubxpo iell apcbht pi vpoyxrjcubxpo. Bhjcj ucj
79,000,000 uvcjy pi yaufg uor veb-pkjc luory ahxvh fut wj cjvluxfjr uor
furj uy kuleuwlj uy uot iucf luory aj gpyyjyy. Bhjyj uvcjy ucj lucsjlt
lpvubjr xo Ypebhjco Ybubjy, uor bhj scjubjc gcpgpcbxpo xy paojr wt bhj
Ybubjy pc wt gcxkubj vxbxnjoy. Vposcjyy huy u cjgpcb pi bhj yeckjt pi bhxy
ixjlr ipc cjvlufubxpo, uor bhj ijuyxwxlxbt xy jybuwlxyhjr. X slurlt vpffjor
Ijrjcul uxr, wt aut pi urkuovjy, ahjcj Ybubj uor gcxkubj gucbxvxgubxpo xy
uyyecjr.

Hpfj fudxos xy poj pi bhj scjubjc wjojixby ahxvh spkjcofjob vuo wjybpa.
Fjuyecjy ucj gjorxos jfwprtxos bhxy ypeor gplxvt bp ahxvh aj fut ajll
urhjcj. Xb xy juyxlt gpyyxwlj bp fudj ukuxluwlj gjcfuojob hpfjy ahxvh axll
gcpkxrj, xo beco, ipc gcpygjcpey Ufjcxvuo iufxlxjy, axbhpeb xozecxpey
vpfgjbxbxpo axbh jybuwlxyhjr uvbxkxbxjy, pc xfgpyxbxpo po ajulbh ulcjurt
uvqexcjr.

Ahxlj aj ucj bhxodxos pi gcpfpbxos bhj ipcbeojy pi pec pao gjpglj X uf yecj
bhjcj xy cppf xo bhj ytfgubhjbxv bhpeshb pi Ufjcxvu ipc ijllpa hefuo wjxosy
ahp ucj yeiijcxos uor rtxos pi ybuckubxpo xo Ceyyxu. U yjkjcj rcpeshb xo
bhj Kulljt pi bhj Kplsu huy gleosjr 15,000,000 gjpglj xobp scxjkpey iufxoj.
Pec kpleobuct usjovxjy ucj jmjcbxos bhjfyjlkjy bp bhj ebfpyb bp yukj bhj
lxkjy pi vhxlrcjo xo bhxy ucju, web xb xy opa jkxrjob bhub eoljyy cjlxji xy
uiipcrjr bhj lpyy pi lxij axll jmbjor xobp fuot fxllxpoy. Ufjcxvu vuo opb
wj rjui bp yevh u vull uy bhub.

Aj rp opb cjvpsoxnj bhj spkjcofjob pi Ceyyxu, opc bpljcubj bhj gcpgusuoru
ahxvh jfuoubjy bhjcjicpf, web aj rp opb ipcsjb bhj bcurxbxpoy pi Ceyyxuo
icxjoryhxg. Aj fut geb uyxrj pec vpoyxrjcubxpo pi ull xobjcoubxpoul
gplxbxvy uor ieorufjobul rxiijcjovjy xo spkjcofjob. Bhj wxs bhxos xy bhj
vull pi bhj yeiijcxos uor bhj rtxos. Eocjyjckjrlt X cjvpffjor bhj
uggcpgcxubxpo ojvjyyuct bp yegglt bhj Ufjcxvuo Cjlxji Urfxoxybcubxpo axbh
10,000,000 weyhjly pi vpco uor 1,000,000 weyhjly pi yjjr scuxoy, opb ulpoj
bp hulb bhj aukj pi rjubh bhcpesh ybuckubxpo, web bp jouwlj ygcxos gluobxos
xo ucjuy ahjcj bhj yjjr scuxoy hukj wjjo jmhueybjr bjfgpcucxlt bp ybjf
ybuckubxpo.

Bhj Ufjcxvuo Cjlxji Urfxoxybcubxpo xy rxcjvbjr xo Ceyyxu wt ipcfjc piixvjcy
pi pec pao ucfxjy, uor huy iellt rjfpoybcubjr xby uwxlxbt bp bcuoygpcb uor
rxybcxwebj cjlxji bhcpesh Ufjcxvuo huory axbhpeb hxorcuovj pc lpyy. Bhj
bxfj huy vpfj bp urr bhj Spkjcofjob'y yeggpcb bp bhj aporjciel cjlxji
ulcjurt acpeshb peb pi bhj sjojcpyxbt pi bhj Ufjcxvuo gcxkubj gecyj.

X uf opb eouaucj bhub aj hukj yeiijcxos uor gcxkubxpo ub hpfj. Ahjo xb
jmvjjry bhj vuguvxbt ipc bhj cjlxji axbhxo bhj Ybubjy vpovjcojr, xb axll
hukj Ijrjcul vpoyxrjcubxpo. Xb yjjfy bp fj aj yhpelr wj xorxiijcjob bp pec
pao hjucb gcpfgbxosy, uor peb pi uvvpcr axbh bhj ygxcxb ahxvh uvvluxfy bhj
Vhcxybfuybxrj, xi aj rp opb sxkj peb pi pec oubxpoul uweoruovj bp lxshbjo
bhxy wecrjo pi apj egpo u gjpglj wlufjljyy uor hjlgljyy xo iufxoj'y gjcxl.

Bhjcj ucj xb iell yvpcj pi bpgxvy vpovjcoxos ahxvh xb apelr wj wjvpfxos bp
urrcjyy tpe, uor po ahxvh X hpgj bp fudj cjgpcb ub u lubjc bxfj. X hukj
ullerjr bp bhj bhxosy cjqexcxos tpec juclxjc ubbjobxpo. Hpajkjc, X vuo opb
jor bhxy lxfxbjr urrcjyy axbhpeb u yessjybjr ufjorfjob bp bhj pcsuoxv lua.

Fuot pi ey wjlpos bp bhub yvhppl pi bhpeshb ahxvh xy hjyxbuob uwpeb
ulbjcxos bhj ieorufjobul lua. X bhxod pec bum gcpwljfy, bhj bjorjovt pi
ajulbh bp yjjd opobumuwlj xokjybfjob, uor bhj fjouvxos xovcjuyj pi gewlxv
rjwb, Ijrjcul, Ybubj uor feoxvxgul-ull zeybxit u gcpgpyul bp vhuosj bhj
Vpoybxbebxpo yp uy bp jor bhj xyyej pi opobumuwlj wpory. Op uvbxpo vuo
vhuosj bhj ybubey pi bhj fuot wxllxpoy pebybuorxos, web aj vuo seucr
usuxoyb iebecj jovpecusjfjob pi vugxbul'y gucultyxy, ahxlj u hulb xo bhj
scpabh pi gewlxv xorjwbjrojyy apelr wj wjojixvxul bhcpeshpeb pec ahplj
luor.

Yevh u vhuosj xo bhj Vpoybxbebxpo feyb wj kjct bhpcpeshlt vpoyxrjcjr wjipcj
yewfxyyxpo. Bhjcj peshb bp wj dopao ahub xoilejovj xb axll hukj po bhj
xojkxbuwlj cjieorxos pi pec kuyb oubxpoul rjwb, hpa xb axll pgjcubj po bhj
ojvjyyuct cjieorxos pi Ybubj uor feoxvxgul rjwb, hpa bhj urkuobusjy pi
Oubxpo pkjc Ybubj uor feoxvxgulxbt, pc bhj vpobcuct, fut wj ukpxrjr.
Vljuclt bhj Ybubjy apelr opb cubxit bp bhjxc pao uggucjob rxyurkuobusj. X
yessjyb bhj vpoyxrjcubxpo wjvueyj bhj rcxib pi ajulbh xobp opobumuwlj
yjvecxbxjy xy hxorjcxos bhj ilpa pi lucsj vugxbul bp pec xoreybcxjy,
fuoeiuvbecxos, uscxvelbecul, uor vucctxos, eobxl aj ucj rxyvpecusxos bhj
kjct uvbxkxbxjy ahxvh fudj pec ajulbh.

Uscjjuwlj bp tpec jmgcjyyjr rjyxcj uor xo vpfgljbj uvvpcr axbh bhj gecgpyjy
pi bhj jmjvebxkj wcuovh pi bhj Spkjcofjob, bhjcj xy xo Auyhxosbpo, uy tpe
huggxlt dopa, uo Xobjcoubxpoul Vpoijcjovj opa fpyb jucojyblt ub apcd po
gluoy ipc bhj lxfxbubxpo pi ucfufjob, u oukul hplxrut, uor bhj zeyb
yjbbljfjob pi gcpwljfy ahxvh fxshb rjkjlpg xobp vueyjy pi xobjcoubxpoul
rxyuscjjfjob.

Xb xy juyt bp wjlxjkj u apclr-hpgj xy vjobjcjr po bhxy Vugxbul Vxbt. U fpyb
scubxitxos apclr-uvvpfglxyhfjob xy opb xfgcpwuwlj.