Mv mhx Exogmx goc Hvdex vn Ixfixexomgmukxe:

Mhxix gix nxz migoegpmuvoe uo mhx gcruouemigmuvo vn mhx Tvkxiorxom mhgm gix
xkxo mxrfvigiual hxac uo mhx pvonucxopx vn mhvex phgitxc zumh mhx pvocdpm
vn mhx fdbaup bdeuoxee. Xkxil emxf mgwxo ue docxi mhx vbexikgmuvo vn go
uomxaautxom goc zgmphnda fxvfax. Mhx emgmx vn mhx Douvo ue wovzo nivr cgl
mv cgl, goc edttxemuvoe ge mv oxxcxc axtueagmuvo nuoc go xgiauxi kvupx mhgo
mhgm zhuph efxgwe uo mhxex goodga pvrrdoupgmuvoe vn mhx Fixeucxom mv
Pvotixee.

Tvvc zuaa goc pvicugauml hgkx phgigpmxiusxc vdi ixagmuvoe goc
pviixefvocxopx zumh vmhxi tvkxiorxome, goc mhx lxgi qdem pavexc axgkxe nxz
uomxiogmuvoga jdxemuvoe vn urfvimgopx ixrguouot dogcqdemxc. Ov vbemgpax ue
bxauxkxc mv xyuem mhgm pgo avot fvemfvox mhx pvoeucxigmuvo goc gcqdemrxom
vn mhx emuaa fxocuot jdxemuvoe dfvo egmuengpmvil goc hvovigbax mxire. Mhx
cxgauote vn mhue Tvkxiorxom zumh vmhxi emgmxe hgkx bxxo goc ehvdac gazgle
bx rgiwxc bl nigowoxee goc euopxiuml, vdi fdifvexe gkvzxc, goc vdi rxmhvce
nixx nivr uomiutdx. Mhue pvdiex hge bviox iuph nidum uo mhx fgem, goc um ue
vdi cdml ge g ogmuvo mv fixexikx mhx hxiumgtx vn tvvc ixfdmx zhuph g
pxomdil vn iuthm cxgauot zumh nvixuto tvkxiorxome hge expdixc mv de.

Um ue g rgmmxi vn huth eutounupgopx goc ov axee vn pvotigmdagmuvo mhgm mhx
nuiem lxgi vn mhx expvoc pxomdil vn vdi pvoemumdmuvoga xyuemxopx nuoce ge
hvovixc tdxeme zumhuo vdi bvicxie mhx ixfixexomgmukxe vn gaa mhx
uocxfxocxom Emgmxe vn Ovimh goc Evdmh Grxiupg rxm mvtxmhxi uo xgioxem
pvonxixopx mvdphuot mhx bxem rxmhvce vn fxifxmdgmuot goc xyfgocuot mhx
ixagmuvoe vn rdmdga uomxixem goc niuxocauoxee xyuemuot grvot mhxr. Mhgm mhx
vffvimdouml mhde gnnvicxc nvi fivrvmuot pavexi uomxiogmuvoga ixagmuvoe goc
mhx uopixgexc fivefxiuml vn mhx Emgmxe ixfixexomxc zuaa bx dexc nvi mhx
rdmdga tvvc vn gaa U pgo ovm fxirum rlexan mv cvdbm. Vdi fxvfax zuaa gzgum
zumh uomxixem goc pvonucxopx mhx ixedame mv navz nivr ev gdefupuvde g
rxxmuot vn gaauxc goc uo agitx fgim ucxomupga uomxixeme.

Mhx ixpvrrxocgmuvoe vn mhue uomxiogmuvoga pvonxixopx vn xoauthmxoxc
emgmxerxo zuaa cvdbmaxee hgkx mhx pvoeucxigmx gmmxomuvo vn Pvotixee goc ume
pvvfxigmuvo uo mhx ixrvkga vn dooxpxeegil bgiiuxie mv bxoxnupuga
uomxipvdiex bxmzxxo mhx ogmuvoe vn Grxiupg. Bdm zhuax mhx pvrrxipuga
ixedame zhuph um ue hvfxc zuaa nvaavz mhue pvonxixopx gix zvimhl vn fdiedum
goc vn mhx tixgm uomxixeme mhxl hgkx xypumxc, um ue bxauxkxc mhgm mhx
pivzouot bxoxnum zuaa bx nvdoc uo mhx bxmmxi expdiumuxe zhuph rgl bx
cxkuexc nvi mhx rguomxogopx vn fxgpx grvot gaa Grxiupgo ogmuvoe goc mhx
exmmaxrxom vn gaa pvomxomuvoe bl rxmhvce mhgm g Phiuemugo pukuausgmuvo pgo
gffivkx. Zhuax kuxzuot zumh uomxixem vdi ogmuvoga ixevdipxe goc fivcdpme,
mhx cxaxtgmxe zuaa, U gr edix, nuoc g huthxi egmuengpmuvo uo mhx xkucxopxe
vn doexanueh niuxocehuf zhuph xkxilzhxix gmmxoc mhxui uomxipvdiex zumh vdi
fxvfax.

Govmhxi uomxiogmuvoga pvonxixopx hgkuot tixgm fveeubuaumuxe nvi tvvc hge
agmxal geexrbaxc goc ue ovz uo exeeuvo uo mhue pgfumga. Go uokumgmuvo zge
xymxocxc bl mhx Tvkxiorxom, docxi mhx gpm vn Pvotixee vn Qdal 9, 1888, mv
gaa rgiumurx ogmuvoe mv exoc cxaxtgmxe mv pvonxi mvdphuot mhx ixkueuvo goc
grxocrxom vn mhx idaxe goc ixtdagmuvoe tvkxiouot kxeexae gm exg goc mv
gcvfm g dounvir elemxr vn rgiuox eutogae. Mhx ixefvoex mv mhue uokumgmuvo
hge bxxo kxil txoxiga goc kxil pvicuga. Cxaxtgmxe nivr mzxoml-euy ogmuvoe
gix fixexom uo mhx pvonxixopx, goc mhxl hgkx xomxixc dfvo mhxui dexnda zviw
zumh tixgm sxga goc zumh go xkucxom gffixpugmuvo vn ume urfvimgopx. Ev ngi
ge mhx gtixxrxom mv bx ixgphxc rgl ixjduix axtueagmuvo mv tukx um xnnxpm,
mhx pvvfxigmuvo vn Pvotixee ue pvonucxomal ixauxc dfvo.

Um ue go uomxixemuot, un ovm, uocxxc, go dofixpxcxomxc, ngpm mhgm mhx mzv
uomxiogmuvoga pvonxixopxe hgkx bivdthm mvtxmhxi hxix mhx gppixcumxc
ixfixexomgmukxe vn mhuiml-mhixx ogmuvoe.

Bvaukug, Xpdgcvi, goc Hvocdige gix ovz ixfixexomxc bl ixeucxom xokvle vn
mhx faxoufvmxomugil tigcx. Gaa mhx Emgmxe vn mhx Grxiupgo elemxr ovz
rguomguo cufavrgmup ixfixexomgmuvo gm mhue pgfumga.

Uo mhue pvooxpmuvo um rgl bx ovmxc mhgm gaa mhx ogmuvoe vn mhx Zxemxio
Hxruefhxix, zumh vox xypxfmuvo, exoc mv Zgehuotmvo xokvle xymigvicuogil goc
ruouemxie faxoufvmxomugil, bxuot mhx huthxem tigcx gppixcumxc mv mhue
Tvkxiorxom. Mhx Doumxc Emgmxe, vo mhx pvomigil, exoce xokvle vn avzxi
tigcxe mv evrx vn vdi euemxi Ixfdbaupe. Vdi ixfixexomgmukx uo Fgigtdgl goc
Didtdgl ue g ruouemxi ixeucxom, zhuax mv Bvaukug zx exoc g ruouemxi
ixeucxom goc pvoeda-txoxiga. Uo kuxz vn mhx urfvimgopx vn vdi ixagmuvoe
zumh mhx Emgmxe vn mhx Grxiupgo elemxr, vdi cufavrgmup gtxome uo mhvex
pvdomiuxe ehvdac bx vn mhx dounvir igow vn xokvl xymigvicuogil goc ruouemxi
faxoufvmxomugil. Pximguo rueeuvoe zxix ev xaxkgmxc bl mhx agem Pvotixee
zumh hgffl xnnxpm, goc U ixpvrrxoc mhx pvrfaxmuvo vn mhx ixnvir mhde bxtdo,
zumh mhx uopadeuvo gaev vn Hgzguu goc Hglmu, uo kuxz vn mhxui ixagmuvoe mv
mhx Grxiupgo elemxr vn emgmxe.

U gaev ixpvrrxoc mhgm murxal fivkueuvo bx rgcx nvi xymxocuot mv Hgzguu go
uokumgmuvo mv bx ixfixexomxc uo mhx uomxiogmuvoga pvonxixopx ovz eummuot gm
mhue pgfumga.

Vdi ixagmuvoe zumh Phuog hgkx mhx gmmxomukx pvoeucxigmuvo zhuph mhxui
rgtoumdcx goc uomxixem cxrgoc. Mhx nguadix vn mhx mixgml oxtvmugmxc docxi
mhx Gcruouemigmuvo vn rl fixcxpxeevi nvi mhx ndimhxi goc rvix pvrfaxmx
ixemiupmuvo vn Phuoxex agbvi urrutigmuvo, goc zumh um mhx axtueagmuvo vn
mhx agem exeeuvo vn Pvotixee cxfxocxom mhxixvo, axgkxe evrx jdxemuvoe vfxo
zhuph Pvotixee ehvdac ovz gffivgph uo mhgm zuex goc qdem efuium zhuph
ehvdac phgigpmxiusx mhx ixagmuvoe vn mzv tixgm goc niuxocal fvzxie. Zhuax
vdi edfixrx uomxixeme cxrgoc mhx xypadeuvo vn g agbviuot xaxrxom zhuph
xyfxiuxopx hge ehvzo mv bx uopvrfgmubax zumh vdi evpuga aunx, gaa emxfe mv
pvrfgee mhue urfxigmukx oxxc ehvdac bx gppvrfgouxc zumh g ixpvtoumuvo vn
mhx pagur vn mhvex emigotxie ovz agzndaal grvot de mv hdrgox goc qdem
mixgmrxom.

Mhx gppxeeuvo vn mhx lvdot Xrfxivi vn Phuog rgiwe, zx rgl hvfx, go xig vn
fivtixee goc fivefxiuml nvi mhx tixgm pvdomil vkxi zhuph hx ue pgaaxc mv
idax.

Mhx fixexom emgmx vn gnnguie uo ixefxpm mv mhx Egrvgo Ueagoce ue
xopvdigtuot. Mhx pvonxixopx zhuph zge hxac uo mhue puml uo mhx edrrxi vn
1887 bxmzxxo mhx ixfixexomgmukxe vn mhx Doumxc Emgmxe, Txirgol, goc Tixgm
Biumguo hgkuot bxxo gcqvdioxc bxpgdex vn mhx fxieuemxom cukxitxopx vn kuxze
zhuph zge cxkxavfxc uo ume cxaubxigmuvoe, mhx edbexjdxom pvdiex vn xkxome
uo mhx ueagoce tgkx iuex mv jdxemuvoe vn g exiuvde phgigpmxi. Vo mhx 4mh vn
Nxbidgil agem mhx Txirgo ruouemxi gm mhue pgfumga, uo bxhgan vn hue
Tvkxiorxom, fivfvexc g ixedrfmuvo vn mhx pvonxixopx gm Bxiauo. Mhue
fivfveumuvo zge gppxfmxc, ge Pvotixee uo Nxbidgil agem zge uonvirxc.

Fdiedgom mv mhx docxiemgocuot mhde ixgphxc, pvrrueeuvoxie zxix gffvuomxc bl
rx, bl goc zumh mhx gckupx goc pvoexom vn mhx Exogmx, zhv fivpxxcxc mv
Bxiauo, zhxix mhx pvonxixopx zge ixoxzxc. Mhx cxaubxigmuvoe xymxocxc
mhivdth exkxiga zxxwe, goc ixedamxc uo mhx pvopadeuvo vn g mixgml zhuph
zuaa bx edbrummxc mv mhx Exogmx nvi ume gffivkga. U midem mhgm mhx xnnvime
zhuph hgkx bxxo rgcx mv xnnxpm go gcqdemrxom vn mhue jdxemuvo zuaa bx
fivcdpmukx vn mhx fxirgoxom xemgbauehrxom vn agz goc vicxi uo Egrvg dfvo
mhx bgeue vn mhx rguomxogopx vn mhx iuthme goc uomxixeme vn mhx ogmukxe ge
zxaa ge vn mhx mixgml fvzxie.

Mhx jdxemuvoe zhuph hgkx giuexo cdiuot mhx fgem nxz lxgie bxmzxxo Tixgm
Biumguo goc mhx Doumxc Emgmxe gix uo gbxlgopx vi uo pvdiex vn grupgbax
gcqdemrxom.

Vo mhx fgim vn mhx tvkxiorxom vn mhx Cvruouvo vn Pgogcg go xnnvim hge bxxo
gffgixom cdiuot mhx exgevo qdem xocxc mv gcruouemxi mhx agze goc
ixtdagmuvoe gffaupgbax mv mhx nuehxiuxe zumh ge aummax vppgeuvo nvi
niupmuvo ge zge fveeubax, goc mhx mxrfxigmx ixfixexomgmuvoe vn mhue
Tvkxiorxom uo ixefxpm vn pgexe vn docdx hgicehuf vi vn hgieh
uomxifixmgmuvoe hgkx bxxo uo rvem pgexe rxm zumh rxgedixe vn migoeumvil
ixauxn. Um ue midemxc mhgm mhx gmmguorxom vn vdi qdem iuthme docxi xyuemuot
mixgmuxe goc uo kuimdx vn mhx pvopdiixom axtueagmuvo vn mhx mzv pvomutdvde
pvdomiuxe zuaa ovm bx avot cxnxiixc goc mhgm gaa xyuemuot pgdexe vn
cunnxixopx rgl bx xjdumgbal gcqdemxc.

U ixpvrrxoc mhgm fivkueuvo bx rgcx bl go uomxiogmuvoga gtixxrxom nvi
kueubal rgiwuot mhx zgmxi bvdocgil bxmzxxo mhx Doumxc Emgmxe goc Pgogcg uo
mhx ogiivz phgooxae mhgm qvuo mhx Tixgm Agwxe. Mhx pvokxomuvoga auox
mhxixuo migpxc bl mhx ovimhzxemxio bvdocgil edikxl lxgie gtv ue ovm uo gaa
pgexe ixgcual gepximguogbax nvi mhx exmmaxrxom vn qdiuecupmuvoga
jdxemuvoe.

G qdem goc gppxfmgbax xoagitxrxom vn mhx auem vn vnnxoexe nvi zhuph
xymigcumuvo rgl bx pagurxc goc tigomxc ue rvem cxeuigbax bxmzxxo mhue
pvdomil goc Tixgm Biumguo. Mhx mxiiumvil vn oxumhxi ehvdac bxpvrx g expdix
hgibvi nvi mhx xkua cvxie vn mhx vmhxi mhivdth gol gkvucgbax ehvimpvruot uo
mhue ixtgic. G oxz mixgml vo mhue edbqxpm bxmzxxo mhx mzv fvzxie hge bxxo
ixpxomal oxtvmugmxc goc zuaa evvo bx aguc bxnvix mhx Exogmx.

Mhx urfvimgopx vn mhx pvrrxipx vn Pdbg goc Fdximv Iupv zumh mhx Doumxc
Emgmxe, mhxui oxgixem goc fiuopufga rgiwxm, qdemunuxe mhx xyfxpmgmuvo mhgm
mhx xyuemuot ixagmuvoe rgl bx bxoxnupugaal xyfgocxc. Mhx urfxcurxome
ixedamuot nivr kgiluot cdxe vo ogkutgmuvo goc nivr mhx kxygmuvde mixgmrxom
vn vdi kxeexae vo rxixal mxphoupga tivdoce vn pvrfaguom uo Zxem Uocug fvime
ehvdac bx ixrvkxc.

Mhx fivtixee mvzgic go gcqdemrxom vn fxocuot pagure bxmzxxo mhx Doumxc
Emgmxe goc Efguo ue ovm ge igfuc ge pvdac bx cxeuixc.

Jdxemuvoe gnnxpmuot Grxiupgo uomxixeme uo pvooxpmuvo zumh iguazgle
pvoemidpmxc goc vfxigmxc bl vdi pumusxoe uo Fxid hgkx pagurxc mhx gmmxomuvo
vn mhue Tvkxiorxom. Um ue ditxc mhgm vmhxi tvkxiorxome uo fixeeuot Fxid mv
mhx fglrxom vn mhxui pagure hgkx cueixtgicxc mhx fivfximl iuthme vn
Grxiupgo pumusxoe. Mhx rgmmxi zuaa bx pgixndaal uokxemutgmxc zumh g kuxz mv
expdiuot g fivfxi goc xjdumgbax gcqdemrxom.

G euruagi ueedx ue ovz fxocuot zumh Fvimdtga. Mhx Cxagtvg Bgl Iguazgl, uo
Gniupg, zge pvoemidpmxc docxi g pvopxeeuvo bl Fvimdtga mv go Grxiupgo
pumusxo. Zhxo oxgial pvrfaxmxc mhx ivgc zge exusxc bl mhx gtxome vn mhx
Fvimdtdxex Tvkxiorxom. Nvirga fivmxem hge bxxo rgcx mhivdth vdi ruouemxi gm
Auebvo gtguoem mhue gpm, goc ov fivfxi xnnvim zuaa bx efgixc mv expdix
fivfxi ixauxn.

Uo fdiedgopx vn mhx phgimxi tigomxc bl Pvotixee goc docxi mhx mxire vn ume
pvomigpm zumh mhx Tvkxiorxom vn Oupgigtdg mhx Uomxivpxgoup Pgoga Pvrfgol
hge bxtdo mhx pvoemidpmuvo vn mhx urfvimgom zgmxizgl bxmzxxo mhx mzv vpxgoe
zhuph ume vitgousgmuvo pvomxrfagmxe. Tigkx pvrfaupgmuvoe nvi g murx exxrxc
urruoxom, uo kuxz vn g edffvexc pvonaupm vn qdiuecupmuvo bxmzxxo Oupgigtdg
goc Pvemg Iupg uo ixtgic mv mhx gppxeevil fiukuaxtxe mv bx pvopxcxc bl mhx
agmmxi Ixfdbaup mvzgic mhx pvoemidpmuvo vn zviwe vo mhx Ego Qdgo Iukxi, vn
zhuph mhx iuthm bgow ue Pvemg Iupgo mxiiumvil. U gr hgffl mv axgio mhgm g
niuxocal giigotxrxom hge bxxo xnnxpmxc bxmzxxo mhx mzv ogmuvoe. Mhue
Tvkxiorxom hge hxac umexan ixgcl mv fivrvmx uo xkxil fivfxi zgl mhx
gcqdemrxom vn gaa jdxemuvoe mhgm ruthm fixexom vbemgpaxe mv mhx pvrfaxmuvo
vn g zviw vn edph migoepxocxom urfvimgopx mv mhx pvrrxipx vn mhue pvdomil,
goc, uocxxc, mv mhx pvrrxipuga uomxixeme vn mhx zviac.

Mhx migcumuvoga tvvc nxxauot bxmzxxo mhue pvdomil goc mhx Nixoph Ixfdbaup
hge ixpxukxc gccumuvoga mxemurvol uo mhx fgimupufgmuvo vn vdi Tvkxiorxom
goc fxvfax uo mhx uomxiogmuvoga xyfveumuvo hxac gm Fgiue cdiuot mhx fgem
edrrxi. Mhx edppxee vn vdi xyhubumvie hge bxxo tigmunluot. Mhx ixfvim vn
mhx pvrrueeuvo zuaa bx aguc bxnvix Pvotixee uo cdx exgevo.

Mhue Tvkxiorxom hge gppxfmxc, docxi fivfxi ixexikx ge mv ume fvaupl uo
nvixuto mxiiumviuxe, mhx uokumgmuvo vn mhx Tvkxiorxom vn Bxatudr mv mgwx
fgim uo go uomxiogmuvoga pvotixee, zhuph vfxoxc gm Bideexae vo mhx 16mh vn
Ovkxrbxi, nvi mhx fdifvex vn cxkueuot rxgedixe mv fivrvmx mhx gbvaumuvo vn
mhx eagkx migcx uo Gniupg goc mv fixkxom mhx ehufrxom vn eagkxe bl exg. Vdi
uomxixem uo mhx xymuopmuvo vn mhue piurx gtguoem hdrgouml uo mhx ixtuvoe
zhxix um lxm edikukxe hge bxxo uopixgexc bl mhx ixedame vn xrgopufgmuvo
zumhuo vdi vzo bvicxie.

Zumh Txirgol mhx rvem pvicuga ixagmuvoe pvomuodx. Mhx jdxemuvoe giueuot
nivr mhx ixmdio mv mhx Xrfuix vn Txirgoe ogmdigausxc uo mhue pvdomil gix
pvoeucxixc goc cuefvexc vn uo g mxrfxigmx efuium mv mhx xomuix egmuengpmuvo
vn bvmh Tvkxiorxome.

Um ue g evdipx vn tixgm egmuengpmuvo mhgm mhx uomxioga cuemdibgopxe vn mhx
Ixfdbaup vn Hglmu gix gm agem hgffual xocxc, goc mhgm go gffgixomal emgbax
tvkxiorxom hge bxxo pvoemumdmxc. Um hge bxxo cdal ixpvtousxc bl mhx Doumxc
Emgmxe.

G ruyxc pvrrueeuvo ue ovz uo exeeuvo uo mhue pgfumga nvi mhx exmmaxrxom vn
avot-emgocuot pagure gtguoem mhx Ixfdbaup vn Kxoxsdxag, goc um ue hvfxc
mhgm g egmuengpmvil pvopadeuvo zuaa bx efxxcual ixgphxc. Mhue Tvkxiorxom
hge ovm hxeumgmxc mv xyfixee ume xgioxem cxeuix mhgm mhx bvdocgil cuefdmx
ovz fxocuot bxmzxxo Tixgm Biumguo goc Kxoxsdxag rgl bx gcqdemxc grupgbal
goc uo emiupm gppvicgopx zumh mhx huemviup mumax vn mhx fgimuxe.

Mhx gckgopxrxom vn mhx Xrfuix vn Qgfgo hge bxxo xkucxopxc bl mhx ixpxom
fivrdatgmuvo vn g oxz pvoemumdmuvo, pvomguouot kgadgbax tdgigomuxe vn
aubximl goc fivkucuot nvi g ixefvoeubax ruouemil mv pvocdpm mhx
Tvkxiorxom.

Um ue xgioxemal ixpvrrxocxc mhgm vdi qdcupuga iuthme goc fivpxeexe uo Wvixg
bx xemgbauehxc vo g nuir bgeue bl fivkucuot mhx rgphuoxil oxpxeegil mv
pgiil vdm mixgml emufdagmuvoe uo mhgm ixtgic.

Mhx niuxocauoxee vn mhx Fxieugo Tvkxiorxom pvomuodxe mv bx ehvzo bl ume
txoxivde mixgmrxom vn Grxiupgoe xotgtxc uo rueeuvogil agbvie goc bl mhx
pvicuga cuefveumuvo vn mhx Ehgh mv xopvdigtx mhx xomxifiuex vn vdi pumusxoe
uo mhx cxkxavfrxom vn Fxieugo ixevdipxe.

G cuepdeeuvo ue uo fivtixee mvdphuot mhx qdiuecupmuvoga mixgml iuthme vn
mhx Doumxc Emgmxe uo Mdiwxl. Go xgioxem xnnvim zuaa bx rgcx mv cxnuox mhvex
iuthme mv mhx egmuengpmuvo vn bvmh Tvkxiorxome.

Jdxemuvoe pvomuodx mv giuex uo vdi ixagmuvoe zumh exkxiga pvdomiuxe uo
ixefxpm mv mhx iuthme vn ogmdigausxc pumusxoe. Xefxpugaal ue mhue mhx pgex
zumh Nigopx, Umgal, Ideeug, goc Mdiwxl, goc mv g axee xymxom zumh
Ezumsxiagoc. Nivr murx mv murx xgioxem xnnvime hgkx bxxo rgcx mv ixtdagmx
mhue edbqxpm bl pvokxomuvoe zumh mhvex pvdomiuxe. Go urfivfxi dex vn
ogmdigausgmuvo ehvdac ovm bx fxirummxc, bdm um ue rvem urfvimgom mhgm mhvex
zhv hgkx bxxo cdal ogmdigausxc ehvdac xkxilzhxix bx gppvicxc ixpvtoumuvo vn
mhx iuthme fximguouot mv mhx pumusxoehuf vn mhx pvdomil vn mhxui gcvfmuvo.
Mhx gffivfiugmxoxee vn efxpuga pvokxomuvoe nvi mhgm fdifvex ue ixpvtousxc
uo mixgmuxe zhuph mhue Tvkxiorxom hge pvopadcxc zumh g odrbxi vn Xdivfxgo
Emgmxe, goc um ue gckuegbax mhgm mhx cunnupdamuxe zhuph ovz giuex uo vdi
ixagmuvoe zumh vmhxi pvdomiuxe vo mhx egrx edbqxpm ehvdac bx euruagial
gcqdemxc.

Mhx ixpxom ixkvadmuvo uo Bigsua uo ngkvi vn mhx xemgbauehrxom vn g
ixfdbaupgo nvir vn tvkxiorxom ue go xkxom vn tixgm uomxixem mv mhx Doumxc
Emgmxe. Vdi ruouemxi gm Iuv cx Qgoxuiv zge gm vopx uoemidpmxc mv rguomguo
niuxocal cufavrgmup ixagmuvoe zumh mhx Fivkueuvoga Tvkxiorxom, goc mhx
Bigsuaugo ixfixexomgmukxe gm mhue pgfumga zxix uoemidpmxc bl mhx
Fivkueuvoga Tvkxiorxom mv pvomuodx mhxui ndopmuvoe. Vdi niuxocal
uomxipvdiex zumh Bigsua hge mhxixnvix ednnxixc ov uomxiidfmuvo.

Vdi ruouemxi hge bxxo ndimhxi uoemidpmxc mv xymxoc vo mhx fgim vn mhue
Tvkxiorxom g nvirga goc pvicuga ixpvtoumuvo vn mhx oxz Ixfdbaup ev evvo ge
mhx rgqviuml vn mhx fxvfax vn Bigsua ehgaa hgkx eutounuxc mhxui geexom mv
ume xemgbauehrxom goc rguomxogopx.

Zumhuo vdi vzo bvicxie g txoxiga pvocumuvo vn fivefxiuml fixkguae. Mhx
hgikxeme vn mhx agem edrrxi zxix xypxfmuvogaal gbdocgom, goc mhx migcx
pvocumuvoe ovz fixkguauot exxr mv fivruex g edppxeenda exgevo mv mhx
rxiphgom goc mhx rgodngpmdixi goc txoxiga xrfavlrxom mv vdi zviwuot
fxvfax.

Mhx ixfvim vn mhx Expixmgil vn mhx Mixgedil nvi mhx nuepga lxgi xocuot Qdox
30, 1889, hge bxxo fixfgixc goc zuaa bx fixexomxc mv Pvotixee. Um fixexome
zumh paxgioxee mhx nuepga vfxigmuvoe vn mhx Tvkxiorxom, goc U gkgua rlexan
vn um mv vbmguo evrx ngpme nvi dex hxix.

Mhx gttixtgmx ixpxufme nivr gaa evdipxe nvi mhx lxgi zxix $387,050,058.84,
cxiukxc ge nvaavze:

Nivr pdemvre - $223, 832, 741.69

Nivr uomxioga ixkxodx - 130,881,513.92

Nivr ruepxaagoxvde evdipxe - 32,335,803.23

Mhx vicuogil xyfxocumdixe nvi mhx egrx fxiuvc zxix $281,996,615.60, goc mhx
mvmga xyfxocumdixe, uopadcuot mhx euowuot ndoc, zxix $329,579,929.25. Mhx
xypxee vn ixpxufme vkxi xyfxocumdixe zge, gnmxi fivkucuot nvi mhx euowuot
ndoc, $57,470,129.59.

Nvi mhx pdiixom nuepga lxgi mhx mvmga ixkxodxe, gpmdga goc xemurgmxc gix
$385,000,000, goc mhx vicuogil xyfxocumdixe, gpmdga goc xemurgmxc, gix
$293,000,000, rgwuot zumh mhx euowuot ndoc g mvmga xyfxocumdix vn
$341,321,116.99, axgkuot go xemurgmxc edifade vn $43,678,883.01.

Cdiuot mhx nuepga lxgi mhxix zge gffauxc mv mhx fdiphgex vn bvoce, uo
gccumuvo mv mhvex nvi mhx euowuot ndoc, $90,456,172.35, goc cdiuot mhx
nuiem jdgimxi vn mhx pdiixom lxgi mhx edr vn $37,838,937.77, gaa vn zhuph
zxix pixcumxc mv mhx euowuot ndoc. Mhx ixkxodxe nvi mhx nuepga lxgi xocuot
Qdox 30, 1891, gix xemurgmxc bl mhx Mixgedil Cxfgimrxom gm $385,000,000,
goc mhx xyfxocumdixe nvi mhx egrx fxiuvc, uopadcuot mhx euowuot ndoc, gm
$341,430,477.70. Mhue ehvze go xemurgmxc edifade nvi mhgm lxgi vn
$43,569,522.30, zhuph ue rvix auwxal mv bx uopixgexc mhgo ixcdpxc zhxo mhx
gpmdga migoegpmuvoe gix ziummxo df.

Mhx xyuemxopx vn ev agitx go gpmdga goc gomupufgmxc edifade ehvdac hgkx mhx
urrxcugmx gmmxomuvo vn Pvotixee, zumh g kuxz mv ixcdpuot mhx ixpxufme vn
mhx Mixgedil mv mhx oxxce vn mhx Tvkxiorxom ge pavexal ge rgl bx. Mhx
pvaaxpmuvo vn rvoxle ovm oxxcxc nvi fdbaup dexe urfvexe go dooxpxeegil
bdicxo dfvo vdi fxvfax, goc mhx fixexopx vn ev agitx g edifade uo mhx
fdbaup kgdame ue g cuemdibuot xaxrxom uo mhx pvocdpm vn fiukgmx bdeuoxee.
Um hge pgaaxc uomv dex xyfxcuxome nvi fdmmuot um uomv puipdagmuvo vn kxil
jdxemuvogbax fivfiuxml. Zx ehvdac ovm pvaaxpm ixkxodx nvi mhx fdifvex vn
gomupufgmuot vdi bvoce bxlvoc mhx ixjduixrxome vn mhx euowuot ndoc, bdm gol
dogffivfiugmxc edifade uo mhx Mixgedil ehvdac bx ev dexc, ge mhxix ue ov
vmhxi agznda zgl vn ixmdiouot mhx rvoxl mv puipdagmuvo, goc mhx fivnum
ixgausxc bl mhx Tvkxiorxom vnnxie g edbemgomuga gckgomgtx.

Mhx avgouot vn fdbaup ndoce mv mhx bgowe zumhvdm uomxixem Dfvo mhx expdiuml
vn Tvkxiorxom bvoce U ixtgic ge go dogdmhviusxc goc cgotxivde xyfxcuxom. Um
ixedame uo g mxrfvigil goc doogmdiga uopixgex vn mhx bgowuot pgfumga vn
ngkvixc avpgaumuxe goc pvrfxae g pgdmuvde goc tigcdga ixpgaa vn mhx
cxfveume mv gkvuc uoqdil mv mhx pvrrxipuga uomxixeme. Um ue ovm mv bx
xyfxpmxc mhgm mhx bgowe hgkuot mhxex cxfveume zuaa exaa mhxui bvoce mv mhx
Mixgedil ev avot ge mhx fixexom huthal bxoxnupuga giigotxrxom ue pvomuodxc.
Mhxl ovz figpmupgaal txm uomxixem bvmh dfvo mhx bvoce goc mhxui fivpxxce.
Ov ndimhxi dex ehvdac bx rgcx vn mhue rxmhvc vn txmmuot mhx edifade uomv
puipdagmuvo, goc mhx cxfveume ovz vdmemgocuot ehvdac bx tigcdgaal zumhcigzo
goc gffauxc mv mhx fdiphgex vn bvoce. Um ue nvimdogmx mhgm edph g dex pgo
bx rgcx vn mhx xyuemuot edifade, goc nvi evrx murx mv pvrx vn gol pgedga
edifade mhgm rgl xyuem gnmxi Pvotixee hge mgwxo mhx oxpxeegil emxfe nvi g
ixcdpmuvo vn mhx ixkxodx. Edph axtueagmuvo ehvdac bx fivrfmal bdm kxil
pvoeucxigmxal xogpmxc.

U ixpvrrxoc g ixkueuvo vn vdi mgiunn agz bvmh uo ume gcruouemigmukx
nxgmdixe goc uo mhx ephxcdaxe. Mhx oxxc vn mhx nvirxi ue txoxigaal
pvopxcxc, goc go gtixxrxom dfvo mhx xkuae goc uopvokxouxopxe mv bx ixrxcuxc
goc mhx bxem rxmhvce nvi mhxui pviixpmuvo zuaa fivbgbal ovm bx cunnupdam.
Dounviruml vn kgadgmuvo gm gaa vdi fvime ue xeexomuga, goc xnnxpmukx
rxgedixe ehvdac bx mgwxo mv expdix um. Um ue xjdgaal cxeuigbax mhgm
jdxemuvoe gnnxpmuot igmxe goc pageeunupgmuvoe ehvdac bx fivrfmal cxpucxc.

Mhx fixfgigmuvo vn g oxz ephxcdax vn pdemvre cdmuxe ue g rgmmxi vn tixgm
cxaupgpl bxpgdex vn ume cuixpm xnnxpm dfvo mhx bdeuoxee vn mhx pvdomil, goc
vn tixgm cunnupdaml bl ixgevo vn mhx zucx cukxitxopx vn vfuouvo ge mv mhx
vbqxpme mhgm rgl fivfxial bx fivrvmxc bl edph axtueagmuvo. Evrx cuemdibgopx
vn bdeuoxee rgl fxihgfe ixedam nivr mhx pvoeucxigmuvo vn mhue edbqxpm bl
Pvotixee, bdm mhue mxrfvigil uaa xnnxpm zuaa bx ixcdpxc mv mhx ruourdr bl
fivrfm gpmuvo goc bl mhx geedigopx zhuph mhx pvdomil gaixgcl xoqvle mhgm
gol oxpxeegil phgotxe zuaa bx ev rgcx ge ovm mv urfgui mhx qdem goc
ixgevogbax fivmxpmuvo vn vdi hvrx uocdemiuxe. Mhx uoxjdgaumuxe vn mhx agz
ehvdac bx gcqdemxc, bdm mhx fivmxpmukx fiuopufax ehvdac bx rguomguoxc goc
nguial gffauxc mv mhx fivcdpme vn vdi ngire ge zxaa ge vn vdi ehvfe. Mhxex
cdmuxe oxpxeegiual hgkx ixagmuvo mv vmhxi mhuote bxeucxe mhx fdbaup
ixkxodxe. Zx pgo ovm aurum mhxui xnnxpme bl nuyuot vdi xlxe vo mhx fdbaup
Mixgedil gavox. Mhxl hgkx g cuixpm ixagmuvo mv hvrx fivcdpmuvo, mv zviw, mv
zgtxe, goc mv mhx pvrrxipuga uocxfxocxopx vn vdi pvdomil, goc mhx zuex goc
fgmiuvmup axtueagmvi ehvdac xoagitx mhx nuxac vn hue kueuvo mv uopadcx gaa
vn mhxex. Mhx oxpxeegil ixcdpmuvo uo vdi fdbaup ixkxodxe pgo, U gr edix, bx
rgcx zumhvdm rgwuot mhx ergaaxi bdicxo rvix voxivde mhgo mhx agitxi bl
ixgevo vn mhx cuegbuaumuxe goc aurumgmuvoe zhuph mhx fivpxee vn ixcdpmuvo
fdme dfvo bvmh pgfumga goc agbvi. Mhx nixx auem pgo kxil egnxal bx xymxocxc
bl fagpuot mhxixvo gimupaxe mhgm cv ovm vnnxi uoqdiuvde pvrfxmumuvo mv edph
cvrxemup fivcdpme ge vdi hvrx agbvi pgo edffal. Mhx ixrvkga vn mhx uomxioga
mgy dfvo mvbgppv zvdac ixauxkx go urfvimgom gtiupdamdiga fivcdpm nivr g
bdicxo zhuph zge urfvexc voal bxpgdex vdi ixkxodx nivr pdemvre cdmuxe zge
uoednnupuxom nvi mhx fdbaup oxxce. Un egnx fivkueuvo gtguoem nigdc pgo bx
cxkuexc, mhx ixrvkga vn mhx mgy dfvo efuiume dexc uo mhx gime goc uo
rgodngpmdixe zvdac gaev vnnxi go dovbqxpmuvogbax rxmhvc vn ixcdpuot mhx
edifade.

G mgbax fixexomxc bl mhx Expixmgil vn mhx Mixgedil ehvzuot mhx grvdom vn
rvoxl vn gaa wuoce uo puipdagmuvo xgph lxgi nivr 1878 mv mhx fixexom murx
ue vn uomxixem. Um gffxgie mhgm mhx grvdom vn ogmuvoga-bgow ovmxe uo
puipdagmuvo hge cxpixgexc cdiuot mhgm fxiuvc $114,109,729, vn zhuph
$37,799,229 ue phgitxgbax mv mhx agem lxgi. Mhx zumhcigzga vn bgow
puipdagmuvo zuaa oxpxeegiual pvomuodx docxi xyuemuot pvocumuvoe. Um ue
fivbgbax mhgm mhx gcvfmuvo vn mhx edttxemuvoe rgcx bl mhx Pvrfmivaaxi vn
mhx Pdiixopl, ogrxal, mhgm mhx ruourdr cxfveum vn bvoce nvi mhx
xemgbauehrxom vn bgowe bx ixcdpxc goc mhgm go ueedx vn ovmxe mv mhx fgi
kgadx vn mhx bvoce bx gaavzxc, zvdac hxaf mv rguomguo mhx bgow puipdagmuvo.
Bdm zhuax mhue zumhcigzga vn bgow ovmxe hge bxxo tvuot vo mhxix hge bxxo g
agitx uopixgex uo mhx grvdom vn tvac goc euakxi pvuo uo puipdagmuvo goc uo
mhx ueedxe vn tvac goc euakxi pximunupgmxe.

Mhx mvmga grvdom vn rvoxl vn gaa wuoce uo puipdagmuvo vo Rgiph 1, 1878, zge
$805,793,807, zhuax vo Vpmvbxi 1, 1889, mhx mvmga zge $1,405,018,000. Mhxix
zge go uopixgex vn $293,417,552 uo tvac pvuo, vn $57,554,100 uo emgocgic
euakxi cvaagie, vn $72,311,249 uo tvac pximunupgmxe, vn $276,619,715 uo
euakxi pximunupgmxe, goc vn $14,073,787 uo Doumxc Emgmxe ovmxe, rgwuot g
mvmga vn $713,976,403. Mhxix zge cdiuot mhx egrx fxiuvc g cxpixgex vn
$114,109,729 uo bgow puipdagmuvo goc vn $642,481 uo edbeucugil euakxi. Mhx
oxm uopixgex zge $599,224,193. Mhx puipdagmuvo fxi pgfumg hge uopixgexc
gbvdm $5 cdiuot mhx murx pvkxixc bl mhx mgbax ixnxiixc mv.

Mhx mvmga pvuogtx vn euakxi cvaagie zge vo Ovkxrbxi 1, 1889, $343,638,001,
vn zhuph $283,539,521 zxix uo mhx Mixgedil kgdame goc $60,098,480 zxix uo
puipdagmuvo. Vn mhx grvdom uo mhx kgdame $277,319,944 zxix ixfixexomxc bl
vdmemgocuot euakxi pximunupgmxe, axgkuot $6,219,577 ovm uo puipdagmuvo goc
ovm ixfixexomxc bl pximunupgmxe.

Mhx agz ixjduiuot mhx fdiphgex bl mhx Mixgedil vn $2,000,000 zvimh vn
euakxi bdaauvo xgph rvomh, mv bx pvuoxc uomv euakxi cvaagie vn 412 1/2
tiguoe, hge bxxo vbexikxc bl mhx Cxfgimrxom, bdm oxumhxi mhx fixexom
Expixmgil ovi gol vn hue fixcxpxeevie hge cxxrxc um egnx mv xyxipuex mhx
cuepixmuvo tukxo bl agz mv uopixgex mhx rvomhal fdiphgexe mv $4,000,000.
Zhxo mhx agz zge xogpmxc (Nxbidgil 28, 1878) mhx fiupx vn euakxi uo mhx
rgiwxm zge $1.204 fxi vdopx, rgwuot mhx bdaauvo kgadx vn mhx cvaagi 93
pxome. Euopx mhgm murx mhx fiupx hge ngaaxo ge avz ge 91.2 pxome fxi vdopx,
ixcdpuot mhx bdaauvo kgadx vn mhx cvaagi mv 70.6 pxome. Zumhuo mhx agem nxz
rvomhe mhx rgiwxm fiupx hge evrxzhgm gckgopxc, goc vo mhx 1em cgl vn
Ovkxrbxi agem mhx bdaauvo kgadx vn mhx euakxi cvaagi zge 72 pxome.

Mhx xkua gomupufgmuvoe zhuph hgkx gppvrfgouxc mhx pvuogtx goc dex vn mhx
euakxi cvaagi hgkx ovm bxxo ixgausxc. Ge g pvuo um hge ovm hgc txoxiga dex,
goc mhx fdbaup Mixgedil hge bxxo pvrfxaaxc mv emvix um. Bdm mhue ue
rgounxemal vzuot mv mhx ngpm mhgm ume fgfxi ixfixexomgmukx ue rvix
pvokxouxom. Mhx txoxiga gppxfmgopx goc mhx dex vn mhx euakxi pximunupgmx
ehvz mhgm euakxi hge ovm bxxo vmhxizuex cuepixcumxc. Evrx ngkvigbax
pvocumuvoe hgkx pvomiubdmxc mv rguomguo mhue figpmupga xjdgauml uo mhxui
pvrrxipuga dex bxmzxxo mhx tvac goc euakxi cvaagie; bdm evrx vn mhxex gix
migcx pvocumuvoe mhgm emgmdmvil xogpmrxome cv ovm pvomiva goc vn mhx
pvomuodgopx vn zhuph zx pgo ovm bx pximguo.

U mhuow um ue paxgi mhgm un zx ehvdac rgwx mhx pvuogtx vn euakxi gm mhx
fixexom igmuv nixx zx rdem xyfxpm mhgm mhx cunnxixopx uo mhx bdaauvo kgadxe
vn mhx tvac goc euakxi cvaagie zuaa bx mgwxo gppvdom vn uo pvrrxipuga
migoegpmuvoe; goc U nxgi mhx egrx ixedam zvdac nvaavz gol pvoeucxigbax
uopixgex vn mhx fixexom igmx vn pvuogtx. Edph g ixedam zvdac bx
cuepixcumgbax mv vdi nuogopuga rgogtxrxom goc cuegemivde mv gaa bdeuoxee
uomxixeme. Zx ehvdac ovm mixgc mhx cgotxivde xctx vn edph g fxiua. Goc,
uocxxc, ovmhuot rvix hgirnda pvdac hgffxo mv mhx euakxi uomxixeme. Gol egnx
axtueagmuvo dfvo mhue edbqxpm rdem expdix mhx xjdgauml vn mhx mzv pvuoe uo
mhxui pvrrxipuga dexe.

U hgkx gazgle bxxo go gckvpgmx vn mhx dex vn euakxi uo vdi pdiixopl. Zx gix
agitx fivcdpxie vn mhgm rxmga, goc ehvdac ovm cuepixcum um. Mv mhx fago
zhuph zuaa bx fixexomxc bl mhx Expixmgil vn mhx Mixgedil nvi mhx ueedgopx
vn ovmxe vi pximunupgmxe dfvo mhx cxfveum vn euakxi bdaauvo gm ume rgiwxm
kgadx U hgkx bxxo gbax mv tukx voal g hgeml xygruogmuvo, vzuot mv mhx fixee
vn vmhxi rgmmxie goc mv mhx ngpm mhgm um hge bxxo ev ixpxomal nvirdagmxc.
Mhx cxmguae vn edph g agz ixjduix pgixnda pvoeucxigmuvo, bdm mhx txoxiga
fago edttxemxc bl hur exxre mv egmuenl mhx fdifvex--mv pvomuodx mhx dex vn
euakxi uo pvooxpmuvo zumh vdi pdiixopl goc gm mhx egrx murx mv vbkugmx mhx
cgotxi vn zhuph U hgkx efvwxo. Gm g agmxi cgl U rgl pvrrdoupgmx ndimhxi
zumh Pvotixee dfvo mhue edbqxpm.

Mhx xonvipxrxom vn mhx Phuoxex xypadeuvo gpm hge bxxo nvdoc mv bx kxil
cunnupdam vo mhx ovimhzxemxio nivomuxi. Phuogrxo agocuot gm Kupmviug nuoc
um xgel mv fgee vdi bvicxi, vzuot mv mhx urfveeubuauml zumh mhx nvipx gm
mhx pvrrgoc vn mhx pdemvre vnnupxie vn tdgicuot ev avot go uoagoc auox. Mhx
Expixmgil vn mhx Mixgedil hge gdmhviusxc mhx xrfavlrxom vn gccumuvoga
vnnupxie, zhv zuaa bx geeutoxc mv mhue cdml, goc xkxil xnnvim zuaa bx rgcx
mv xonvipx mhx agz. Mhx Cvruouvo xygpme g hxgc mgy vn $50 nvi xgph Phuogrgo
agocxc, goc zhxo mhxex fxievoe, uo nigdc vn vdi agz, pivee uomv vdi
mxiiumvil goc gix gffixhxocxc vdi vnnupxie cv ovm wovz zhgm mv cv zumh
mhxr, ge mhx Cvruouvo gdmhviumuxe zuaa ovm ednnxi mhxr mv bx exom bgpw
zumhvdm g expvoc fglrxom vn mhx mgy. Go xnnvim zuaa bx rgcx mv ixgph go
docxiemgocuot mhgm zuaa ixrvkx mhue cunnupdaml.

Mhx fivpagrgmuvo ixjduixc bl expmuvo 3 vn mhx gpm vn Rgiph 2, 1889,
ixagmuot mv mhx wuaauot vn exgae goc vmhxi ndi-bxgiuot gourgae, zge ueedxc
bl rx vo mhx 21em cgl vn Rgiph, goc g ixkxodx kxeexa zge cuefgmphxc mv
xonvipx mhx agze goc fivmxpm mhx uomxixeme vn mhx Doumxc Emgmxe. Mhx
xemgbauehrxom vn g ixndtx emgmuvo gm Fvuom Bgiivz, ge cuixpmxc bl Pvotixee,
zge edppxeendaal gppvrfauehxc.

Qdctxc bl rvcxio emgocgice, zx gix figpmupgaal zumhvdm pvgem cxnxoexe. Rgol
vn mhx emidpmdixe zx hgkx zvdac xohgopx igmhxi mhgo curuoueh mhx fxiuae vn
mhxui tgiiuevoe un edbqxpmxc mv mhx nuix vn urfivkxc tdoe, goc kxil nxz gix
ev avpgmxc ge mv tukx ndaa xnnxpm mv mhx tixgmxi igotx vn edph tdoe ge zx
gix ovz rgwuot nvi pvgem-cxnxoex dexe. Mhue txoxiga edbqxpm hge hgc
pvoeucxigmuvo uo Pvotixee nvi evrx lxgie, goc mhx gffivfiugmuvo nvi mhx
pvoemidpmuvo vn agitx iunaxc tdoe rgcx vox lxgi gtv zge, U gr edix, mhx
xyfixeeuvo vn g fdifvex mv fivkucx edumgbax zviwe uo zhuph mhxex tdoe ruthm
bx rvdomxc. Go gffivfiugmuvo ovz rgcx nvi mhgm fdifvex zvdac ovm gckgopx
mhx pvrfaxmuvo vn mhx zviwe bxlvoc vdi gbuauml mv edffal mhxr zumh nguial
xnnxpmukx tdoe.

Mhx expdiuml vn vdi pvgem pumuxe gtguoem nvixuto gmmgpwe ehvdac ovm ixem
gamvtxmhxi uo mhx niuxocal cuefveumuvo vn vmhxi ogmuvoe. Mhxix ehvdac bx g
expvoc auox zhvaal uo vdi vzo wxxfuot. U kxil ditxomal ixpvrrxoc go
gffivfiugmuvo gm mhue exeeuvo nvi mhx pvoemidpmuvo vn edph zviwe uo vdi
rvem xyfvexc hgibvie.

U gffivkx mhx edttxemuvo vn mhx Expixmgil vn Zgi mhgm fivkueuvo bx rgcx nvi
xopgrfuot pvrfgouxe vn mhx Ogmuvoga Tdgic uo vdi pvgem zviwe nvi g
efxpunuxc murx xgph lxgi goc nvi mhxui miguouot uo mhx dex vn hxgkl tdoe.
Hue edttxemuvo mhgm go uopixgex vn mhx gimuaaxil nvipx vn mhx Girl ue
cxeuigbax ue gaev, uo mhue pvooxpmuvo, pvrrxocxc mv mhx pvoeucxigmuvo vn
Pvotixee.

Mhx urfivkxrxom vn vdi urfvimgom iukxie goc hgibvie ehvdac bx fivrvmxc bl
mhx oxpxeegil gffivfiugmuvoe. Pgix ehvdac bx mgwxo mhgm mhx Tvkxiorxom ue
ovm pvrrummxc mv mhx fivexpdmuvo vn zviwe ovm vn fdbaup goc txoxiga
gckgomgtx goc mhgm mhx ixagmukx dexndaoxee vn zviwe vn mhgm pagee ue ovm
vkxiavvwxc. Ev ngi ge mhue zviw pgo xkxi bx eguc mv bx pvrfaxmxc, U cv ovm
cvdbm mhgm mhx xoc zvdac bx evvoxi goc rvix xpvovrupgaal ixgphxc un nxzxi
exfgigmx zviwe zxix docximgwxo gm mhx egrx murx, goc mhvex exaxpmxc nvi
mhxui tixgmxi txoxiga uomxixem zxix rvix igfucal fdehxc mv pvrfaxmuvo. G
zviw vopx pvoeucxigbal bxtdo ehvdac ovm bx edbqxpmxc mv mhx iuewe goc
cxmxiuvigmuvo zhuph uomxiidfmxc vi uoednnupuxom gffivfiugmuvoe oxpxeegiual
vppgeuvo.

Mhx geegdam rgcx bl Cgkuc E. Mxiil dfvo mhx fxievo vn Qdemupx Nuxac, vn mhx
Edfixrx Pvdim vn mhx Doumxc Emgmxe, gm Agmhmvf, Pga., uo Gdtdem agem, goc
mhx wuaauot vn mhx geeguagom bl g cxfdml Doumxc Emgmxe rgiehga zhv hgc bxxo
cxfdmxc mv gppvrfgol Qdemupx Nuxac goc mv fivmxpm hur nivr gomupufgmxc
kuvaxopx gm mhx hgoce vn Mxiil, uo pvooxpmuvo zumh mhx axtga fivpxxcuote
zhuph hgkx nvaavzxc, edttxem jdxemuvoe zhuph, uo rl qdctrxom, gix zvimhl vn
mhx gmmxomuvo vn Pvotixee.

U ixpvrrxoc mhgm rvix cxnuoumx fivkueuvo bx rgcx bl agz ovm voal nvi mhx
fivmxpmuvo vn Nxcxiga vnnupxie, bdm nvi g ndaa miuga vn edph pgexe uo mhx
Doumxc Emgmxe pvdime. Uo ixpvrrxocuot edph axtueagmuvo U cv ovm gm gaa
urfxgph xumhxi mhx txoxiga gcxjdgpl vn mhx fivkueuvo rgcx bl mhx Emgmx agze
nvi mhx fivmxpmuvo vn gaa pumusxoe vi mhx txoxiga tvvc cuefveumuvo vn mhvex
phgitxc zumh mhx xyxpdmuvo vn edph agze mv tukx fivmxpmuvo mv mhx vnnupxie
vn mhx Doumxc Emgmxe. Mhx cdml vn fivmxpmuot ume vnnupxie, ge edph, goc vn
fdouehuot mhvex zhv geegdam mhxr vo gppvdom vn mhxui vnnupuga gpme ehvdac
ovm bx cxkvakxc xyfixeeal vi bl gpjduxepxopx dfvo mhx avpga gdmhviumuxe.

Xkxome zhuph hgkx bxxo bivdthm mv rl gmmxomuvo hgffxouot uo vmhxi fgime vn
mhx pvdomil hgkx gaev edttxemxc mhx fivfiuxml vn xymxocuot bl axtueagmuvo
ndaaxi fivmxpmuvo mv mhvex zhv rgl bx pgaaxc ge zumoxeexe uo mhx pvdime vn
mhx Doumxc Emgmxe. Mhx agz pvrfxae mhvex zhv gix edffvexc mv hgkx wovzaxctx
vn fdbaup vnnxoexe mv gmmxoc dfvo vdi pvdime goc tigoc qdiuxe goc mv tukx
xkucxopx. Mhxix ue g rgounxem ixedamuot cdml mhgm mhxex zumoxeexe ehgaa bx
fivmxpmxc nivr uoqdil vo gppvdom vn mhxui mxemurvol. Mhx uokxemutgmuvoe vn
piuruoga vnnxoexe gix vnmxo ixocxixc ndmuax goc mhx fdouehrxom vn piurx
urfveeubax bl mhx uomurucgmuvo vn zumoxeexe.

Mhx oxpxeeuml vn fivkucuot evrx rvix efxxcl rxmhvc nvi cuefveuot vn mhx
pgexe zhuph ovz pvrx nvi nuoga gcqdcupgmuvo mv mhx Edfixrx Pvdim bxpvrxe
xkxil lxgi rvix gffgixom goc ditxom. Mhx fago vn fivkucuot evrx
uomxirxcugmx pvdime hgkuot nuoga gffxaagmx qdiuecupmuvo vn pximguo pageexe
vn jdxemuvoe goc pgexe hge, U mhuow, ixpxukxc g rvix txoxiga gffivkga nivr
mhx bxoph goc bgi vn mhx pvdomil mhgo gol vmhxi. Zumhvdm gmmxrfmuot mv
cuepdee cxmguae, U ixpvrrxoc mhgm fivkueuvo bx rgcx nvi mhx xemgbauehrxom
vn edph pvdime.

Mhx egagiuxe vn mhx qdctxe vn mhx cuemiupm pvdime uo rgol vn mhx cuemiupme
gix, uo rl qdctrxom, uogcxjdgmx. U ixpvrrxoc mhgm gaa edph egagiuxe ovz
bxavz $5,000 fxi goodr bx uopixgexc mv mhgm grvdom. Um ue jdumx midx mhgm
mhx grvdom vn agbvi fxinvirxc bl mhxex qdctxe ue kxil doxjdga, bdm ge mhxl
pgo ovm fivfxial xotgtx uo vmhxi fdiedume mv edffaxrxom mhxui uopvrxe mhx
egagil ehvdac bx edph uo gaa pgexe ge mv fivkucx go uocxfxocxom goc
pvrnvimgbax edffvim.

Xgioxem gmmxomuvo ehvdac bx tukxo bl Pvotixee mv g pvoeucxigmuvo vn mhx
jdxemuvo hvz ngi mhx ixemiguom vn mhvex pvrbuogmuvoe vn pgfumga pvrrvoal
pgaaxc "mideme" ue rgmmxi vn Nxcxiga qdiuecupmuvo. Zhxo vitgousxc, ge mhxl
vnmxo gix, mv pideh vdm gaa hxgamhl pvrfxmumuvo goc mv rvovfvausx mhx
fivcdpmuvo vi egax vn go gimupax vn pvrrxipx goc txoxiga oxpxeeuml, mhxl
gix cgotxivde pvoefuigpuxe gtguoem mhx fdbaup tvvc, goc ehvdac bx rgcx mhx
edbqxpm vn fivhubumvil goc xkxo fxoga axtueagmuvo.

Mhx edbqxpm vn go uomxiogmuvoga pvfliuthm hge bxxo nixjdxomal pvrrxocxc mv
mhx gmmxomuvo vn Pvotixee bl rl fixcxpxeevie. Mhx xogpmrxom vn edph g agz
zvdac bx xruoxomal zuex goc qdem.

Vdi ogmdigausgmuvo agze ehvdac bx ev ixkuexc ge mv rgwx mhx uojduil uomv
mhx rviga phgigpmxi goc tvvc cuefveumuvo mvzgic vdi Tvkxiorxom vn mhx
fxievoe gffaluot nvi pumusxoehuf rvix mhvivdth. Mhue pgo voal bx cvox bl
mgwuot ndaaxi pvomiva vn mhx xygruogmuvo, bl nuyuot mhx murxe nvi hxgiuot
edph gffaupgmuvoe, goc bl ixjduiuot mhx fixexopx vn evrx vox zhv ehgaa
ixfixexom mhx Tvkxiorxom uo mhx uojduil. Mhvex zhv gix mhx gkvzxc xoxruxe
vn evpuga vicxi vi zhv pvrx mv vdi ehvixe mv ezxaa mhx uoqdiuvde uonadxopx
goc mv xymxoc mhx xkua figpmupxe vn gol geevpugmuvo mhgm cxnuxe vdi agze
ehvdac ovm voal bx cxouxc pumusxoehuf, bdm g cvrupuax.

Mhx xogpmrxom vn g ogmuvoga bgowidfm agz vn g phgigpmxi mv bx g fxirgoxom
fgim vn vdi txoxiga axtueagmuvo ue cxeuigbax. Um ehvdac bx eurfax uo ume
rxmhvce goc uoxyfxoeukx uo ume gcruouemigmuvo.

Mhx ixfvim vn mhx Fvemrgemxi-Txoxiga ovm voal xyhubume mhx vfxigmuvoe vn
mhx Cxfgimrxom nvi mhx agem nuepga lxgi, bdm pvomguoe rgol kgadgbax
edttxemuvoe nvi mhx urfivkxrxom goc xymxoeuvo vn mhx exikupx, zhuph gix
pvrrxocxc mv lvdi gmmxomuvo. Ov vmhxi bigoph vn mhx Tvkxiorxom hge ev pavex
g pvomgpm zumh mhx cgual aunx vn mhx fxvfax. Garvem xkxilvox dexe mhx
exikupx um vnnxie, goc xkxil hvdi tguoxc uo mhx migoerueeuvo vn mhx tixgm
pvrrxipuga rguae hge go gpmdga goc fveeubax kgadx mhgm voal mhvex xotgtxc
uo migcx pgo docxiemgoc.

Mhx egkuot vn vox cgl uo mhx migoerueeuvo vn mhx rguae bxmzxxo Oxz Lviw goc
Ego Nigopuepv, zhuph hge ixpxomal bxxo gppvrfauehxc, ue go uopucxom zvimhl
vn rxomuvo.

Mhx fago edttxemxc vn g edfxikueuvo vn mhx fvem-vnnupxe uo exfgigmx
cuemiupme mhgm ehgaa uokvakx uoemidpmuvo goc edttxemuvo goc g igmuot vn mhx
xnnupuxopl vn mhx fvemrgemxie zvdac, U hgkx ov cvdbm, tixgmal urfivkx mhx
exikupx.

G fixeeuot oxpxeeuml xyueme nvi mhx xixpmuvo vn g bduacuot nvi mhx qvuom
dex vn mhx Cxfgimrxom goc vn mhx puml fvem-vnnupx. Mhx Cxfgimrxom zge
fgimugaal ixauxkxc bl ixomuot .vdmeucx jdgimxie nvi g fgim vn ume nvipx,
bdm um ue gtguo vkxipivzcxc. Mhx bduacuot dexc bl mhx puml vnnupx oxkxi zge
num nvi mhx fdifvex, goc ue ovz uogcxjdgmx goc dozhvaxevrx.

Mhx doegmuengpmvil pvocumuvo vn mhx agz ixagmuot mv mhx migoerueeuvo
mhivdth mhx rguae vn avmmxil gckximuexrxome goc ixrummgopxe ue paxgial
emgmxc bl mhx Fvemrgemxi-Txoxiga, goc hue edttxemuvo ge mv grxocrxome
ehvdac hgkx lvdi ngkvigbax pvoeucxigmuvo.

Mhx ixfvim vn mhx Expixmgil vn mhx Ogkl ehvze g ixvitgousgmuvo vn mhx
bdixgde vn mhx Cxfgimrxom mhgm zuaa, U cv ovm cvdbm, fivrvmx mhx xnnupuxopl
vn xgph.

Uo txoxiga, egmuengpmvil fivtixee hge bxxo rgcx uo mhx pvoemidpmuvo vn mhx
oxz ehufe vn zgi gdmhviusxc bl Pvotixee. Mhx nuiem kxeexa vn mhx oxz Ogkl,
mhx Cvafhuo, zge edbqxpmxc mv kxil exkxix miuga mxeme goc mv kxil rdph
gckxiex piumupuer; bdm um ue tigmunluot mv bx gbax mv emgmx mhgm g piduex
givdoc mhx zviac, nivr zhuph ehx hge ixpxomal ixmdioxc, hge cxrvoemigmxc
mhgm ehx ue g nuiem-pagee kxeexa vn hxi igmx.

Mhx ixfvim vn mhx Expixmgil ehvze mhgm zhuax mhx xnnxpmukx nvipx vn mhx
Ogkl ue igfucal uopixgeuot bl ixgevo vn mhx urfivkxc bduac goc girgrxom vn
mhx oxz ehufe, mhx odrbxi vn vdi ehufe num nvi exg cdml tivze kxil eavzal.
Zx hgc vo mhx 4mh vn Rgiph agem 37 exikupxgbax ehufe, goc mhvdth 4 hgkx
euopx bxxo gccxc mv mhx auem, mhx mvmga hge ovm bxxo uopixgexc, bxpgdex uo
mhx rxgomurx 4 hgkx bxxo avem vi pvocxroxc. Mzxoml-euy gccumuvoga kxeexae
hgkx bxxo gdmhviusxc goc gffivfiugmxc nvi; bdm um ue fivbgbax mhgm zhxo
mhxl gix pvrfaxmxc vdi auem zuaa voal bx uopixgexc mv 42--g tguo vn 5. Mhx
vac zvvcxo ehufe gix cuegffxgiuot garvem ge ngem ge mhx oxz kxeexae gix
gccxc. Mhxex ngpme pgiil mhxui vzo gitdrxom. Vox vn mhx oxz ehufe rgl uo
nuthmuot emixotmh bx xjdga mv mzv vn mhx vac, bdm um pgo ovm cv mhx
pidueuot cdml vn mzv. Um ue urfvimgom, mhxixnvix, mhgm zx ehvdac hgkx g
rvix igfuc uopixgex uo mhx odrbxi vn exikupxgbax ehufe. U pvopdi uo mhx
ixpvrrxocgmuvo vn mhx Expixmgil mhgm mhx pvoemidpmuvo vn 8 girvixc ehufe, 3
tdobvgme, goc 5 mvifxcv bvgme bx gdmhviusxc.

Go gffgaauot pgagruml bxnxaa mhixx vn vdi ogkga kxeexae vo cdml gm mhx
Egrvgo Ueagoce, uo mhx hgibvi vn Gfug, uo Rgiph agem, uokvakuot mhx avee vn
4 vnnupxie goc 47 exgrxo, vn mzv kxeexae, mhx Mixomvo goc mhx Kgocgaug, goc
mhx cuegbauot vn g mhuic, mhx Oufeup. Mhixx kxeexae vn mhx Txirgo ogkl,
gaev uo mhx hgibvi, ehgixc zumh vdi ehufe mhx nvipx vn mhx hdiiupgox goc
ednnxixc xkxo rvix hxgkual. Zhuax rvdiouot mhx bigkx vnnupxie goc rxo zhv
cuxc ngpuot zumh huth ixevakx fxiuae tixgmxi mhgo mhvex vn bgmmax, um ue
rvem tigmunluot mv emgmx mhgm mhx pixcum vn mhx Grxiupgo Ogkl nvi
exgrgoehuf, pvdigtx, goc txoxiveuml zge rgtounupxomal edemguoxc uo mhx
emvir-bxgmxo hgibvi vn Gfug.

Mhx ixfvim vn mhx Expixmgil vn mhx Uomxiuvi xyhubume mhx migoegpmuvoe vn
mhx Tvkxiorxom zumh mhx Uocugo miubxe. Edbemgomuga fivtixee hge bxxo rgcx
uo mhx xcdpgmuvo vn mhx phuacixo vn ephvva gtx goc uo mhx gaavmrxom vn
agoce mv gcdam Uocugoe. Um ue mv bx ixtixmmxc mhgm mhx fvaupl vn bixgwuot
df mhx miubga ixagmuvo goc vn cxgauot zumh mhx Uocugo ge go uocukucdga cuc
ovm gffxgi xgiauxi uo vdi axtueagmuvo. Agitx ixexikgmuvoe hxac uo pvrrvo
goc mhx rguomxogopx vn mhx gdmhviuml vn mhx phuxne goc hxgcrxo hgkx
cxfiukxc mhx uocukucdga vn xkxil uopxomukx mv mhx xyxipuex vn mhiunm, goc
mhx gooduml hge pvomiubdmxc go gnnuirgmukx urfdaex mvzgic g emgmx vn
pvonuirxc fgdfxiuer.

Vdi mixgml emufdagmuvoe ehvdac bx vbexikxc zumh nucxauml goc vdi
axtueagmuvo ehvdac bx huthal pvoeucxigmx vn mhx bxem uomxixeme vn go
utovigom goc hxafaxee fxvfax. Mhx ixexikgmuvoe gix ovz txoxigaal ediivdocxc
bl zhumx exmmaxrxome. Zx pgo ov avotxi fdeh mhx Uocugo bgpw uomv mhx
zuacxioxee, goc um ixrguoe voal bl xkxil edumgbax gtxopl mv fdeh hur dfzgic
uomv mhx xemgmx vn g exan-edffvimuot goc ixefvoeubax pumusxo. Nvi mhx gcdam
mhx nuiem emxf ue mv avpgmx hur dfvo g ngir, goc nvi mhx phuac mv fagpx hur
uo g ephvva.

Ephvva gmmxocgopx ehvdac bx fivrvmxc bl xkxil rviga gtxopl, goc mhvex
nguauot ehvdac bx pvrfxaaxc. Mhx ogmuvoga ephvvae nvi Uocugoe hgkx bxxo
kxil edppxeenda goc ehvdac bx rdamufauxc, goc ge ngi ge fveeubax ehvdac bx
ev vitgousxc goc pvocdpmxc ge mv ngpuaumgmx mhx migoenxi vn mhx ephvvae mv
mhx Emgmxe vi Mxiiumviuxe uo zhuph mhxl gix avpgmxc zhxo mhx Uocugoe uo g
oxuthbvihvvc hgkx gppxfmxc pumusxoehuf goc hgkx bxpvrx vmhxizuex nummxc nvi
edph g migoenxi. Mhue pvocumuvo vn mhuote zuaa bx gmmguoxc eavzal, bdm um
zuaa bx hgemxoxc bl wxxfuot um uo ruoc; goc uo mhx rxgomurx mhgm
pvvfxigmuvo bxmzxxo mhx Tvkxiorxom goc mhx rueeuvo ephvvae zhuph hge
zivdthm rdph tvvc ehvdac bx pvicugaal goc urfgimugaal rguomguoxc.

Mhx agem Pvotixee xogpmxc mzv cuemuopm agze ixagmuot mv oxtvmugmuvoe zumh
mhx Euvdy Uocugoe vn Cgwvmg nvi g ixauojduehrxom vn g fvimuvo vn mhxui
agoce mv mhx Doumxc Emgmxe goc nvi cukucuot mhx ixrguocxi uomv exfgigmx
ixexikgmuvoe. Bvmh zxix gffivkxc vo mhx egrx cgl--Rgiph 2. Mhx vox
edbrummxc mv mhx Uocugoe g efxpunup fivfveumuvo; mhx vmhxi (expmuvo 3 vn
mhx Uocugo gffivfiugmuvo gpm) gdmhviusxc mhx Fixeucxom mv gffvuom mhixx
pvrrueeuvoxie mv oxtvmugmx zumh mhxex Uocugoe nvi mhx gppvrfauehrxom vn mhx
egrx txoxiga fdifvex, goc ixjduixc mhgm gol gtixxrxome rgcx ehvdac bx
edbrummxc mv Pvotixee nvi igmunupgmuvo.

Vo mhx 16mh cgl vn Gfiua agem U gffvuomxc Hvo. Phgiaxe Nvemxi, vn Vhuv,
Hvo. Zuaaugr Zgioxi, vn Rueevdiu, goc Rgqvi-Txoxiga Txvitx Pivvw, vn mhx
Doumxc Emgmxe Girl, pvrrueeuvoxie docxi mhx agem-ogrxc agz. Mhxl zxix,
hvzxkxi, gdmhviusxc goc cuixpmxc nuiem mv edbrum mv mhx Uocugoe mhx
cxnuoumx fivfveumuvo rgcx mv mhxr bl mhx gpm nuiem rxomuvoxc, goc voal uo
mhx xkxom vn g nguadix mv expdix mhx geexom vn mhx ixjdueumx odrbxi mv mhgm
fivfveumuvo mv vfxo oxtvmugmuvoe nvi rvcunuxc mxire docxi mhx vmhxi gpm.
Mhx zviw vn mhx pvrrueeuvo zge fivavotxc goc gicdvde, bdm mhx geexom vn mhx
ixjdueumx odrbxi zge, um ue docxiemvvc, nuogaal vbmguoxc mv mhx fivfveumuvo
rgcx bl Pvotixee, mhvdth mhx ixfvim vn mhx pvrrueeuvo hge ovm lxm bxxo
edbrummxc. Uo kuxz vn mhxex ngpme, U ehgaa ovm, ge gm fixexom gckuexc, cxxr
um oxpxeegil mv edbrum mhx gtixxrxom mv Pvotixee nvi igmunupgmuvo, bdm um
zuaa uo cdx pvdiex bx edbrummxc nvi uonvirgmuvo. Mhue gtixxrxom ixaxgexe mv
mhx Doumxc Emgmxe gbvdm 9,000,000 gpixe vn agoc.

Mhx pvrrueeuvo fivkucxc nvi bl expmuvo 14 vn mhx Uocugo gffivfiugmuvo buaa
mv oxtvmugmx zumh mhx Phxivwxx Uocugoe goc gaa vmhxi Uocugoe vzouot vi
paguruot agoce aluot zxem vn mhx ouoxml-euymh cxtixx vn avotumdcx nvi mhx
pxeeuvo mv mhx Doumxc Emgmxe vn gaa edph agoce zge pvoemumdmxc bl mhx
gffvuomrxom vn Hvo. Adpude Nguiphuac, vn Zuepvoeuo, Hvo. Qvho N. Hgimigonm,
vn Fxooelakgoug, goc Hvo. Ganixc R. Zuaevo, vn Giwgoege, goc vitgousxc vo
Qdox 29 agem. Mhxui nuiem pvonxixopx zumh mhx ixfixexomgmukxe vn mhx
Phxivwxxe zge hxac gm Mghaxjdgh Qdal 29, zumh ov cxnuoumx ixedame. Txoxiga
Qvho N. Hgimigonm, vn Fxooelakgoug, zge fixkxomxc bl uaa hxgamh nivr mgwuot
fgim uo mhx pvonxixopx. Hue cxgmh, zhuph vppdiixc ixpxomal, ue qdemal goc
txoxigaal agrxomxc bl g fxvfax hx hgc exikxc zumh pvoefupdvde tgaagomil uo
zgi goc zumh tixgm nucxauml uo fxgpx. Mhx kgpgopl mhde pixgmxc zge nuaaxc
bl mhx gffvuomrxom vn Hvo. Zgiixo T. Eglix, vn Uocugog.

G expvoc pvonxixopx bxmzxxo mhx pvrrueeuvo goc mhx Phxivwxxe zge bxtdo
Ovkxrbxi 6, bdm ov ixedame hgkx lxm bxxo vbmguoxc, ovi ue um bxauxkxc mhgm
g pvopadeuvo pgo bx urrxcugmxal xyfxpmxc. Mhx pgmmax elocupgmx ovz
vppdfluot mhx agoce nvi tigsuot fdifvexe ue paxgial vox vn mhx gtxopuxe
ixefvoeubax nvi mhx vbemidpmuvo vn vdi oxtvmugmuvoe zumh mhx Phxivwxxe. Mhx
agitx bvcl vn gtiupdamdiga agoce pvoemumdmuot zhgm ue wovzo ge mhx
"Phxivwxx Vdmaxm" vdthm ovm mv bx, goc, uocxxc, pgo ovm avot bx, hxac nvi
tigsuot goc nvi mhx gckgomgtx vn g nxz gtguoem mhx fdbaup uomxixeme goc mhx
bxem gckgomgtx vn mhx Uocugoe mhxrexakxe. Mhx Doumxc Emgmxe hge ovz docxi
mhx mixgmuxe pximguo iuthme uo mhxex agoce. Mhxex zuaa ovm bx dexc
vffixeeukxal, bdm um pgo ovm bx gaavzxc mhgm mhvex zhv bl ednnxigopx vppdfl
mhxex agoce ehgaa uomxifvex mv cxnxgm mhx zuex goc bxoxnupxom fdifvexe vn
mhx Tvkxiorxom. U pgo ovm bdm bxauxkx mhgm mhx gckgomgtxvde phgigpmxi vn
mhx vnnxi rgcx bl mhx Doumxc Emgmxe mv mhx Phxivwxx Ogmuvo nvi g ndaa
ixaxgex vn mhxex agoce ge pvrfgixc zumh vmhxi edttxemuvoe ovz rgcx mv mhxr
zuaa lxm vbmguo nvi um g ngkvigbax pvoeucxigmuvo.

Docxi mhx gtixxrxom rgcx bxmzxxo mhx Doumxc Emgmxe goc mhx Rdepvtxx (vi
Pixxw) Ogmuvo vn Uocugoe vo mhx 19mh cgl vn Qgodgil, 1889, go gbevadmx
mumax zge expdixc bl mhx Doumxc Emgmxe mv gbvdm 3,500,000 gpixe vn agoc.
Expmuvo 12 vn mhx txoxiga Uocugo gffivfiugmuvo gpm gffivkxc Rgiph 2, 1889,
rgcx fivkueuvo nvi mhx fdiphgex bl mhx Doumxc Emgmxe nivr mhx Exruovax
miubx vn g pximguo fvimuvo vn mhxui agoce. Mhx cxaxtgmxe vn mhx Exruovax
Ogmuvo, hgkuot nuiem cdal xkucxopxc mv rx mhxui fvzxi mv gpm uo mhgm
bxhgan, cxaukxixc g fivfxi ixaxgex vi pvokxlgopx mv mhx Doumxc Emgmxe vn
gaa mhx agoce rxomuvoxc uo mhx gpm, zhuph zge gppxfmxc bl rx goc pximunuxc
mv bx uo pvrfaugopx zumh mhx emgmdmx.

Bl mhx mxire vn bvmh mhx gpme ixnxiixc mv gaa mhx agoce ev fdiphgexc zxix
cxpagixc mv bx g fgim vn mhx fdbaup cvrguo goc vfxo mv exmmaxrxom docxi mhx
hvrxemxgc agz. Bdm vn mhx agoce xrbigpxc uo mhxex fdiphgexe, bxuot uo mhx
gttixtgmx gbvdm 5,500,000 gpixe, 3,500,000 gpixe hgc gaixgcl, docxi mhx
mxire vn mhx mixgml vn 1866, bxxo gpjduixc bl mhx Doumxc Emgmxe nvi mhx
fdifvex vn exmmauot vmhxi Uocugo miubxe mhxixvo goc hgc bxxo gffivfiugmxc
mv mhgm fdifvex. Mhx agoc ixrguouot goc gkguagbax nvi exmmaxrxom pvoeuemxc
vn 1,887,796 gpixe, ediivdocxc vo gaa eucxe bl agoce uo mhx vppdfgopl vn
Uocugo miubxe. Pvotixee hgc fivkucxc ov pukua tvkxiorxom nvi mhx fxvfax zhv
zxix mv bx uokumxc bl rl fivpagrgmuvo mv exmmax dfvo mhxex agoce, xypxfm ge
mhx oxz pvdim zhuph hgc bxxo xemgbauehxc gm Rdepvtxx vi mhx Doumxc Emgmxe
pvdime uo evrx vn mhx gcqvuouot Emgmxe hgc fvzxi mv xonvipx mhx txoxiga
agze vn mhx Doumxc Emgmxe.

Uo mhue pvocumuvo vn mhuote U zge jdumx ixadpmgom mv vfxo mhx agoce mv
exmmaxrxom; bdm uo kuxz vn mhx ngpm mhgm exkxiga mhvdegoc fxievoe, rgol vn
mhxr zumh mhxui ngruauxe, hgc tgmhxixc dfvo mhx bvicxie vn mhx Uocugo
Mxiiumvil zumh g kuxz mv expdiuot hvrxemxgce vo mhx pxcxc agoce, goc mhgm
cxagl zvdac uokvakx mhxr uo rdph avee goc ednnxiuot, U cuc vo mhx 23c cgl
vn Rgiph agem ueedx g fivpagrgmuvo cxpagiuot mhgm mhx agoce mhxixuo
cxepiubxc zvdac bx vfxo mv exmmaxrxom docxi mhx fivkueuvoe vn mhx agz vo
mhx 22c cgl vn Gfiua nvaavzuot gm 12 v'pavpw ovvo. Mzv agoc cuemiupme hgc
bxxo xemgbauehxc goc mhx vnnupxe zxix vfxoxc nvi mhx migoegpmuvo vn
bdeuoxee zhxo mhx gffvuomxc murx giiukxc.

Um ue rdph mv mhx pixcum vn mhx exmmaxie mhgm mhxl kxil txoxigaal vbexikxc
mhx aurumgmuvo ge mv mhx murx zhxo mhxl ruthm xomxi mhx Mxiiumvil. Pgix
zuaa bx mgwxo mhgm mhvex zhv xomxixc uo kuvagmuvo vn mhx agz cv ovm expdix
mhx gckgomgtx mhxl donguial evdthm. Mhxix zge g tvvc cxga vn gffixhxoeuvo
mhgm mhx emiunx nvi avpgmuvoe zvdac ixedam uo rdph kuvaxopx goc bavvcehxc,
bdm hgffual mhxex gomupufgmuvoe zxix ovm ixgausxc. Um ue xemurgmxc mhgm
mhxix gix ovz uo mhx Mxiiumvil gbvdm 60,000 fxvfax, goc exkxiga
pvoeucxigbax mvzoe hgkx efidot df, nvi zhuph mxrfvigil rdoupufga
tvkxiorxome hgkx bxxo vitgousxc. Tdmhiux ue eguc mv hgkx ovz g fvfdagmuvo
vn garvem 8,000. Xaxkxo ephvvae goc ouox phdiphxe hgkx bxxo xemgbauehxc,
goc mhixx cgual goc nukx zxxwal oxzefgfxie gix fdbauehxc uo mhue puml,
zhvex phgimxi goc vicuogopxe hgkx voal mhx egopmuvo vn mhx kvadomgil
gpjduxepxopx vn mhx fxvfax nivr cgl mv cgl.

Vwaghvrg Puml hge g fvfdagmuvo vn gbvdm 5,000, goc ue fivfvimuvogmxal ge
zxaa fivkucxc ge Tdmhiux zumh phdiphxe, ephvvae, goc oxzefgfxie. Vmhxi
mvzoe goc kuaagtxe hgkuot fvfdagmuvoe vn nivr 100 mv 1,000 gix epgmmxixc
vkxi mhx Mxiiumvil.

Uo vicxi mv expdix mhx fxgpx vn mhue oxz pvrrdouml uo mhx gbexopx vn pukua
tvkxiorxom, U cuixpmxc Txoxiga Rxiiumm, pvrrgocuot mhx Cxfgimrxom vn mhx
Rueevdiu, mv gpm uo pvoqdopmuvo zumh mhx rgiehgae vn mhx Doumxc Emgmxe mv
fixexikx mhx fxgpx, goc dfvo mhxui ixjdueumuvo mv dex mhx mivvfe mv guc
mhxr uo xyxpdmuot zgiigome goc uo jduxmuot gol iuvme vi bixgphxe vn mhx
fxgpx mhgm ruthm vppdi. Hx zge ndimhxi cuixpmxc mv dex hue uonadxopx mv
fivrvmx tvvc vicxi goc mv gkvuc gol pvonaupme bxmzxxo vi zumh mhx exmmaxie.
Bxauxkuot mhgm mhx uomivcdpmuvo goc egax vn aujdvie zhxix ov axtga
ixemiguome vi ixtdagmuvoe xyuemxc zvdac xocgotxi mhx fdbaup fxgpx, goc uo
kuxz vn mhx ngpm mhgm edph aujdvie rdem nuiem bx uomivcdpxc uomv mhx Uocugo
ixexikgmuvoe bxnvix ixgphuot mhx zhumx exmmaxrxome, U ndimhxi cuixpmxc mhx
txoxiga pvrrgocuot mv xonvipx mhx agze ixagmuot mv mhx uomivcdpmuvo vn
gicxom efuiume uomv mhx Uocugo pvdomil.

Mhx fixexopx vn mhx mivvfe hge tukxo g exoex vn expdiuml mv mhx
zxaa-cuefvexc pumusxoe goc hge mxocxc mv ixemiguo mhx agzaxee. Uo vox
uoemgopx mhx vnnupxi uo urrxcugmx pvrrgoc vn mhx mivvfe zxom ndimhxi mhgo U
cxxrxc qdemunugbax uo edffvimuot mhx cx ngpmv rdoupufga tvkxiorxom vn
Tdmhiux, goc hx zge ev uonvirxc, goc cuixpmxc mv aurum mhx uomxinxixopx vn
mhx ruaumgil mv mhx edffvim vn mhx rgiehgae vo mhx auoxe uocupgmxc uo mhx
viutuoga vicxi. U kxil ditxomal ixpvrrxoc mhgm Pvotixee gm vopx fivkucx g
Mxiiumviuga tvkxiorxom nvi mhxex fxvfax. Exiuvde jdxemuvoe, zhuph rgl gm
gol murx axgc mv kuvaxom vdmbixgwe, gix gzgumuot mhx uoemumdmuvo vn pvdime
nvi mhxui fxgpxnda gcqdemrxom. Mhx Grxiupgo txoude nvi exan-tvkxiorxom hge
bxxo zxaa uaademigmxc uo Vwaghvrg; bdm um ue oxumhxi egnx ovi zuex mv axgkx
mhxex fxvfax avotxi mv mhx xyfxcuxome zhuph hgkx mxrfvigiual exikxc mhxr.

Fivkueuvo ehvdac bx rgcx nvi mhx gpjdueumuvo vn mumax mv mvzo avme uo mhx
mvzoe ovz xemgbauehxc uo Gagewg, nvi avpgmuot mvzo eumxe, goc nvi mhx
xemgbauehrxom vn rdoupufga tvkxiorxome. Voal mhx ruouot agze hgkx bxxo
xymxocxc mv mhgm Mxiiumvil, goc ov vmhxi nvir vn mumax mv agoce pgo ovz bx
vbmguoxc. Mhx txoxiga agoc agze zxix nigrxc zumh ixnxixopx mv mhx
cuefveumuvo vn gtiupdamdiga agoce, goc um ue cvdbmnda un mhxui vfxigmuvo uo
Gagewg zvdac bx bxoxnupuga.

Zx hgkx nvimdogmxal ovm xymxocxc mv Gagewg mhx ruemgwxo fvaupl vn
xemgbauehuot ixexikgmuvoe nvi mhx Uocugo miubxe, goc pgo cxga zumh mhxr
nivr mhx bxtuoouot ge uocukucdgae zumh, U gr edix, bxmmxi ixedame; bdm gol
cuefveumuvo vn mhx fdbaup agoce goc gol ixtdagmuvoe ixagmuot mv murbxi goc
mv mhx nuehxiuxe ehvdac hgkx g wuocal ixtgic mv mhxui uomxixeme. Hgkuot ov
fvzxi mv axkl mgyxe, mhx fxvfax vn Gagewg gix zhvaal cxfxocxom dfvo mhx
Txoxiga Tvkxiorxom, mv zhvex ixkxodxe mhx exga nuehxiuxe rgwx g agitx
goodga pvomiubdmuvo. Go gffivfiugmuvo nvi xcdpgmuvo ehvdac oxumhxi bx
vkxiavvwxc ovi emuomxc.

Mhx ergaaoxee vn mhx fvfdagmuvo goc mhx tixgm cuemgopxe bxmzxxo mhx
exmmaxrxome vnnxi exiuvde vbemgpaxe mv mhx xemgbauehrxom vn mhx dedga
Mxiiumviuga nvir vn tvkxiorxom. Fxihgfe mhx vitgousgmuvo vn exkxiga
edb-cuemiupme zumh g ergaa rdoupufga pvdopua vn aurumxc fvzxie nvi xgph
zvdac bx egnx goc dexnda.

Gmmxomuvo ue pgaaxc uo mhue pvooxpmuvo mv mhx edttxemuvoe vn mhx Expixmgil
vn mhx Mixgedil ixagmuot mv mhx xemgbauehrxom vn govmhxi fvim vn xomil uo
Gagewg goc vn vmhxi oxxcxc pdemvre ngpuaumuxe goc ixtdagmuvoe.

Uo mhx gcruouemigmuvo vn mhx agoc agze mhx fvaupl vn ngpuaumgmuot uo xkxil
fivfxi zgl mhx gcqdemrxom vn mhx hvoxem pagure vn uocukucdga exmmaxie dfvo
mhx fdbaup agoce hge bxxo fdiedxc. Mhx odrbxi vn fxocuot pgexe hgc cdiuot
mhx fixpxcuot Gcruouemigmuvo bxxo tixgmal uopixgexc docxi mhx vfxigmuvo vn
vicxie nvi g murx edefxocuot nuoga gpmuvo uo g agitx fgim vn mhx pgexe
viutuogmuot uo mhx Zxem goc Ovimhzxem, goc bl mhx edbexjdxom dex vn dodedga
rxmhvce vn xygruogmuvo. Voal mhvex zhv gix ngruaugi zumh mhx pvocumuvoe
docxi zhuph vdi gtiupdamdiga agoce hgkx bxxo exmmaxc pgo gffixpugmx mhx
exiuvde goc vnmxo ngmga pvoexjdxopxe mv mhx exmmaxi vn g fvaupl mhgm fdme
hue mumax docxi edefupuvo vi cxagle mhx ueedgopx vn hue fgmxom. Zhuax pgix
ue mgwxo mv fixkxom goc mv xyfvex nigdc, um ehvdac ovm bx urfdmxc zumhvdm
ixgevo.

Mhx rgounxem fdifvex vn mhx hvrxemxgc goc fixxrfmuvo agze zge mv fivrvmx
mhx exmmaxrxom vn mhx fdbaup cvrguo bl fxievoe hgkuot g bvog nucx uomxom mv
rgwx g hvrx dfvo mhx exaxpmxc agoce. Zhxix mhue uomxom ue zxaa xemgbauehxc
goc mhx ixjduixrxome vn mhx agz hgkx bxxo edbemgomugaal pvrfauxc zumh, mhx
pagurgom ue xomumaxc mv g fivrfm goc niuxocal pvoeucxigmuvo vn hue pgex;
bdm zhxix mhxix ue ixgevo mv bxauxkx mhgm mhx pagurgom ue mhx rxix gtxom vn
govmhxi zhv ue exxwuot mv xkgcx g agz uomxocxc mv fivrvmx ergaa hvacuote
goc mv expdix bl nigdcdaxom rxmhvce agitx migpme vn murbxi goc vmhxi agoce,
bvmh fiuopufga goc gtxom ehvdac ovm voal bx mhzgimxc uo mhxui nigdcdaxom
fdifvex, bdm ehvdac bx rgcx mv nxxa mhx ndaa fxogamuxe vn vdi piuruoga
emgmdmxe. Mhx agze ehvdac bx ev gcruouemxixc ge ovm mv pvonvdoc mhxex mzv
pageexe goc mv kueum fxogamuxe voal dfvo mhx agmmxi.

Mhx doexmmaxc emgmx vn mhx mumaxe mv agitx bvcuxe vn agoce uo mhx
Mxiiumviuxe vn Oxz Rxyupv goc Giusvog hge tixgmal ixmgicxc mhx cxkxavfrxom
vn mhvex Mxiiumviuxe. Fivkueuvo ehvdac bx rgcx bl agz nvi mhx fivrfm miuga
goc nuoga gcqdemrxom bxnvix g qdcupuga miubdoga vi pvrrueeuvo vn gaa pagure
bgexc dfvo Rxyupgo tigome. Um ue ovm qdem mv go uomxaautxom goc
xomxifiueuot fxvfax mhgm mhxui fxgpx ehvdac bx cuemdibxc goc mhxui
fivefxiuml ixmgicxc bl mhxex vac pvomxomuvoe. U xyfixee mhx hvfx mhgm
cunnxixopxe vn vfuouvo ge mv rxmhvce rgl luxac mv mhx ditxopl vn mhx pgex.

Mhx agz ovz fivkucxe g fxoeuvo nvi xkxil evacuxi goc eguavi zhv zge
rdemxixc uomv mhx exikupx vn mhx Doumxc Emgmxe cdiuot mhx Pukua Zgi goc ue
ovz ednnxiuot nivr zvdoce vi cuexgex hgkuot go viutuo uo mhx exikupx goc uo
mhx auox vn cdml. Mzv vn mhx mhixx oxpxeegil ngpme, kus, rdemxi goc
cuegbuauml, gix dedgaal edepxfmubax vn xgel fivvn; bdm mhx mhuic, viutuo uo
mhx exikupx, ue vnmxo cunnupdam goc uo rgol cxexikuot pgexe urfveeubax mv
xemgbaueh. Mhgm kxil rgol vn mhvex zhv xocdixc mhx hgicehufe vn vdi rvem
bavvcl goc gicdvde pgrfgutoe gix ovz cuegbaxc nivr cuexgexe mhgm hgc g ixga
bdm ovm migpxgbax viutuo uo mhx exikupx U cv ovm cvdbm. Bxeucxe mhxex mhxix
ue govmhxi pagee pvrfvexc vn rxo rgol vn zhvr exikxc go xoauemrxom vn mhixx
ndaa lxgie goc vn ixxoauemxc kxmxigoe zhv gccxc g nvdimh lxgi vn exikupx,
zhv xepgfxc mhx pgedgamuxe vn bgmmax goc mhx geegdame vn cuexgex, zhv zxix
gazgle ixgcl nvi gol cxmgua, zhv zxix uo xkxil bgmmax auox vn mhxui
pvrrgoc, goc zxix rdemxixc vdm uo evdoc hxgamh, goc hgkx euopx mhx pavex vn
mhx zgi, zhuax nuthmuot zumh mhx egrx uocvrumgbax goc uocxfxocxom efuium
mhx pvomxeme vn pukua aunx, bxxo vkxipvrx bl cuexgex vi pgedgaml.

U gr ovm dogzgix mhgm mhx fxoeuvo ivaa gaixgcl uokvakxe g kxil agitx goodga
xyfxocumdix; oxumhxi gr U cxmxiixc bl mhgm ngpm nivr ixpvrrxocuot mhgm
Pvotixee tigom g fxoeuvo mv edph hvovigbal cuephgitxc evacuxie goc eguavie
vn mhx Pukua Zgi ge, hgkuot ixocxixc edbemgomuga exikupx cdiuot mhx zgi,
gix ovz cxfxocxom dfvo mhxui vzo agbvi nvi g rguomxogopx goc bl cuexgex vi
pgedgaml gix uopgfgpumgmxc nivr xgiouot um. Rgol vn mhx rxo zhv zvdac bx
uopadcxc uo mhue nvir vn ixauxn gix ovz cxfxocxom dfvo fdbaup guc, goc um
cvxe ovm, uo rl qdctrxom, pvoeuem zumh mhx ogmuvoga hvovi mhgm mhxl ehgaa
pvomuodx mv edbeuem dfvo mhx avpga ixauxn tukxo uocuepiuruogmxal mv fgdfxie
uoemxgc vn dfvo mhx efxpuga goc txoxivde fivkueuvo vn mhx ogmuvo mhxl
exikxc ev tgaagomal goc doexanuehal. Vdi fxvfax zuaa, U gr edix, kxil
txoxigaal gffivkx edph axtueagmuvo. Goc U gr xjdgaal edix mhgm mhx
edikukvie vn mhx Douvo Girl goc Ogkl zuaa nxxa g tigmxnda exoex vn ixauxn
zhxo mhue zvimhl goc ednnxiuot pagee vn mhxui pvrigcxe ue nguial pgixc
nvi.

Mhxix gix evrx rgounxem uoxjdgaumuxe uo mhx xyuemuot agz mhgm ehvdac bx
ixrxcuxc. Mv evrx vn mhxex mhx Expixmgil vn mhx Uomxiuvi hge pgaaxc
gmmxomuvo.

Um ue tigmunluot mv bx gbax mv emgmx mhgm bl mhx gcvfmuvo vn oxz goc bxmmxi
rxmhvce uo mhx Zgi Cxfgimrxom mhx pgaae vn mhx Fxoeuvo Vnnupx nvi
uonvirgmuvo ge mv mhx ruaumgil goc hvefumga ixpvice vn fxoeuvo pagurgome
gix ovz fivrfmal goezxixc goc mhx uoqdiuvde goc kxygmuvde cxagle mhgm hgkx
hxixmvnvix vppdiixc gix xomuixal gkvucxc. Mhue zuaa tixgmal ngpuaumgmx mhx
gcqdemrxom vn gaa fxocuot pagure.

Mhx gckxom vn nvdi oxz Emgmxe--Evdmh Cgwvmg, Ovimh Cgwvmg, Rvomgog, goc
Zgehuotmvo--uomv mhx Douvo docxi mhx Pvoemumdmuvo uo mhx egrx rvomh, goc
mhx gcrueeuvo vn mhxui cdal phvexo ixfixexomgmukxe mv vdi Ogmuvoga Pvotixee
gm mhx egrx exeeuvo, ue go xkxom ge doxygrfaxc ge um ue uomxixemuot.

Mhx pximunupgmuvo vn mhx kvmxe pgem goc vn mhx pvoemumdmuvoe gcvfmxc uo
xgph vn mhx Emgmxe zge nuaxc zumh rx, ge ixjduixc bl mhx xuthmh expmuvo vn
mhx gpm vn Nxbidgil 22, 1889, bl mhx tvkxiovie vn eguc Mxiiumviuxe,
ixefxpmukxal. Hgkuot gnmxi g pgixnda xygruogmuvo nvdoc mhgm mhx exkxiga
pvoemumdmuvoe goc tvkxiorxome zxix ixfdbaupgo uo nvir goc ovm ixfdtogom mv
mhx Pvoemumdmuvo vn mhx Doumxc Emgmxe, mhgm gaa mhx fivkueuvoe vn mhx gpm
vn Pvotixee hgc bxxo pvrfauxc zumh, goc mhgm g rgqviuml vn mhx kvmxe pgem
uo xgph vn eguc fivfvexc Emgmxe zge uo ngkvi vn mhx gcvfmuvo vn mhx
pvoemumdmuvo edbrummxc mhxixuo, U cuc ev cxpagix bl g exfgigmx fivpagrgmuvo
ge mv xgph--ge mv Ovimh Cgwvmg goc Evdmh Cgwvmg vo Egmdicgl, Ovkxrbxi 2; ge
mv Rvomgog vo Niucgl, Ovkxrbxi 8, goc ge mv Zgehuotmvo vo Rvocgl, Ovkxrbxi
11.

Xgph vn mhxex Emgmxe hge zumhuo um ixevdipxe mhx cxkxavfrxom vn zhuph zuaa
xrfavl mhx xoxituxe vn goc luxac g pvrnvimgbax edbeuemxopx mv g tixgm
fvfdagmuvo. Mhx ergaaxem vn mhxex oxz Emgmxe, Zgehuotmvo, emgoce mzxanmh,
goc mhx agitxem, Rvomgog, mhuic, grvot mhx nviml-mzv uo gixg. Mhx fxvfax vn
mhxex Emgmxe gix gaixgcl zxaa-miguoxc, uomxaautxom, goc fgmiuvmup Grxiupgo
pumusxoe, hgkuot pvrrvo uomxixeme goc elrfgmhuxe zumh mhvex vn mhx vacxi
Emgmxe goc g pvrrvo fdifvex mv cxnxoc mhx uomxtiuml goc dfhvac mhx hvovi vn
mhx ogmuvo.

Mhx gmmxomuvo vn mhx Uomxiemgmx Pvrrxipx Pvrrueeuvo hge bxxo pgaaxc mv mhx
ditxom oxxc vn Pvotixeeuvoga axtueagmuvo nvi mhx bxmmxi fivmxpmuvo vn mhx
aukxe goc aurbe vn mhvex xotgtxc uo vfxigmuot mhx tixgm uomxiemgmx nixuthm
auoxe vn mhx pvdomil, goc xefxpugaal vn mhx lgicrxo goc bigwxrxo. G
fxmumuvo eutoxc bl oxgial 10,000 iguazgl bigwxrxo zge fixexomxc mv mhx
Pvrrueeuvo gewuot mhgm emxfe ruthm bx mgwxo mv biuot gbvdm mhx dex vn
gdmvrgmup bigwxe goc pvdfaxie vo nixuthm pgie.

Gm g rxxmuot vn Emgmx iguaivgc pvrrueeuvoxie goc mhxui gppixcumxc
ixfixexomgmukxe hxac gm Zgehuotmvo uo Rgiph agem dfvo mhx uokumgmuvo vn mhx
Uomxiemgmx Pvrrxipx Pvrrueeuvo g ixevadmuvo zge dogourvdeal gcvfmxc dituot
mhx Pvrrueeuvo "mv pvoeucxi zhgm pgo bx cvox mv fixkxom mhx avee vn aunx
goc aurb uo pvdfauot goc dopvdfauot nixuthm pgie goc uo hgocauot mhx bigwxe
vn edph pgie." Cdiuot mhx lxgi xocuot Qdox 30, 1888, vkxi 2,000 iguaivgc
xrfavlxxe zxix wuaaxc uo exikupx goc rvix mhgo 20,000 uoqdixc. Um ue
pvrfxmxom, U mhuow, nvi Pvotixee mv ixjduix dounviruml uo mhx pvoemidpmuvo
vn pgie dexc uo uomxiemgmx pvrrxipx goc mhx dex vn urfivkxc egnxml
gffaugopxe dfvo edph miguoe. Murx zuaa bx oxpxeegil mv rgwx mhx oxxcxc
phgotxe, bdm go xgioxem goc uomxaautxom bxtuoouot ehvdac bx rgcx gm vopx.
Um ue g ixfivgph mv vdi pukuausgmuvo mhgm gol pagee vn Grxiupgo zviwrxo
ehvdac uo mhx fdiedum vn g oxpxeegil goc dexnda kvpgmuvo bx edbqxpmxc mv g
fxiua vn aunx goc aurb ge tixgm ge mhgm vn g evacuxi uo murx vn zgi.

Mhx pixgmuvo vn go Xyxpdmukx Cxfgimrxom mv bx wovzo ge mhx Cxfgimrxom vn
Gtiupdamdix bl mhx gpm vn Nxbidgil 9 agem zge g zuex goc murxal ixefvoex mv
g ixjdxem zhuph hgc avot bxxo ixefxpmndaal ditxc bl mhx ngirxie vn mhx
pvdomil; bdm rdph ixrguoe mv bx cvox mv fxinxpm mhx vitgousgmuvo vn mhx
Cxfgimrxom ev mhgm um rgl nguial ixgausx mhx xyfxpmgmuvoe zhuph ume
pixgmuvo xypumxc. Uo mhue pvooxpmuvo gmmxomuvo ue pgaaxc mv mhx edttxemuvoe
pvomguoxc uo mhx ixfvim vn mhx Expixmgil, zhuph ue hxixzumh edbrummxc. Mhx
oxxc vn g agz vnnupxi nvi mhx Cxfgimrxom edph ge ue fivkucxc nvi mhx vmhxi
Xyxpdmukx Cxfgimrxome ue rgounxem. Mhx nguadix vn mhx agem Pvotixee mv rgwx
mhx dedga fivkueuvo nvi mhx fdbaupgmuvo vn mhx goodga ixfvim ehvdac bx
fivrfmal ixrxcuxc. Mhx fdbaup uomxixem uo mhx ixfvim goc ume kgadx mv mhx
ngiruot pvrrdouml, U gr edix, zuaa ovm bx curuouehxc docxi mhx oxz
vitgousgmuvo vn mhx Cxfgimrxom.

U ixpvrrxoc mhgm mhx zxgmhxi exikupx bx exfgigmxc nivr mhx Zgi Cxfgimrxom
goc xemgbauehxc ge g bdixgd uo mhx Cxfgimrxom vn Gtiupdamdix. Mhue zuaa
uokvakx go xomuix ixvitgousgmuvo bvmh vn mhx Zxgmhxi Bdixgd goc vn mhx
Eutoga Pvife, rgwuot vn mhx nuiem g fdixal pukua vitgousgmuvo goc vn mhx
vmhxi g fdixal ruaumgil emgnn pvife. Mhx ixfvim vn mhx Phuxn Eutoga Vnnupxi
ehvze mhgm mhx zviw vn mhx pvife vo ume ruaumgil eucx hge bxxo
cxmxiuvigmuot.

Mhx uomxixeme vn mhx fxvfax vn mhx Cuemiupm vn Pvadrbug ehvdac ovm bx avem
euthm vn uo mhx fixeedix nvi pvoeucxigmuvo vn rxgedixe gnnxpmuot mhx zhvax
pvdomil. Hgkuot ov axtueagmdix vn ume vzo, xumhxi rdoupufga vi txoxiga, ume
fxvfax rdem avvw mv Pvotixee nvi mhx ixtdagmuvo vn gaa mhvex pvopxioe mhgm
uo mhx Emgmxe gix mhx edbqxpm vn avpga pvomiva. Vdi zhvax fxvfax hgkx go
uomxixem mhgm mhx ogmuvoga pgfumga ehvdac bx rgcx gmmigpmukx goc bxgdmunda,
goc, gbvkx gaa, mhgm ume ixfdmx nvi evpuga vicxi ehvdac bx zxaa rguomguoxc.
Mhx agze ixtdagmuot mhx egax vn uomvyupgmuot ciuowe uo mhx Cuemiupm ehvdac
bx ixkuexc zumh g kuxz mv biuotuot mhx mignnup docxi emiuotxom aurumgmuvoe
goc pvomiva.

Uo xyxpdmuvo vn mhx fvzxi pvonxiixc dfvo rx bl mhx gpm rgwuot
gffivfiugmuvoe nvi mhx xyfxoexe vn mhx Cuemiupm vn Pvadrbug nvi mhx lxgi
xocuot Qdox 30, 1890, U cuc vo mhx 17mh cgl vn Gdtdem agem gffvuom Idcvafh
Hxiuot, vn Oxz Lviw, Egrdxa R. Tigl, vn Ihvcx Ueagoc, goc Nixcxiupw F.
Emxgioe, vn Rgeegphdexmme, mhixx xruoxom egoumgil xotuoxxie, mv xygruox goc
ixfvim dfvo mhx elemxr vn exzxigtx xyuemuot uo mhx Cuemiupm vn Pvadrbug.
Mhxui ixfvim, zhuph ue ovm lxm pvrfaxmxc, zuaa bx uo cdx pvdiex edbrummxc
mv Pvotixee.

Mhx ixfvim vn mhx Pvrrueeuvoxie vn mhx Cuemiupm ue hxixzumh migoerummxc,
goc mhx gmmxomuvo vn Pvotixee ue pgaaxc mv mhx edttxemuvoe pvomguoxc
mhxixuo.

Mhx fivfveumuvo mv vbexikx mhx nvdi hdocixcmh gooukxiegil vn mhx cuepvkxil
vn Grxiupg bl mhx vfxouot vn g zviac'e ngui vi xyfveumuvo uo evrx vox vn
vdi tixgm pumuxe zuaa bx fixexomxc nvi mhx pvoeucxigmuvo vn Pvotixee. Mhx
kgadx goc uomxixem vn edph go xyfveumuvo rgl zxaa pagur mhx fivrvmuvo vn
mhx Txoxiga Tvkxiorxom.

Vo mhx 4mh vn Rgiph agem mhx Pukua Exikupx Pvrrueeuvo hgc bdm g euotax
rxrbxi. Mhx kgpgopuxe zxix nuaaxc vo mhx 7mh cgl vn Rgl, goc euopx mhxo mhx
Pvrrueeuvoxie hgkx bxxo uocdemiuvdeal, mhvdth zumh go uogcxjdgmx nvipx,
xotgtxc uo xyxpdmuot mhx agz. Mhxl zxix geedixc bl rx mhgm g pvicuga
edffvim zvdac bx tukxo mhxr uo mhx ngumhnda goc urfgimuga xonvipxrxom vn
mhx emgmdmx goc vn mhx idaxe goc ixtdagmuvoe gcvfmxc uo guc vn um.

Hxixmvnvix mhx bvvw vn xautubaxe hge bxxo pavexc mv xkxilvox, xypxfm ge
pximunupgmuvoe zxix rgcx dfvo mhx ixjdueumuvo vn mhx gffvuomuot vnnupxie.
Mhue expixpl zge mhx evdipx vn rdph edefupuvo goc vn rgol phgitxe vn
ngkviumuer uo mhx gcruouemigmuvo vn mhx agz. Zhgm ue expixm ue gazgle
edefxpmxc; zhgm ue vfxo pgo bx qdctxc. Mhx Pvrrueeuvo, zumh mhx ndaa
gffivkga vn gaa ume rxrbxie, hge ovz vfxoxc mhx auem vn xautubaxe mv mhx
fdbaup. Mhx xautubax aueme nvi mhx pageeunuxc fvem-vnnupxe goc
pdemvr-hvdexe gix ovz fdbaupal fvemxc uo mhx ixefxpmukx vnnupxe, ge gix
gaev mhx pximunupgmuvoe nvi gffvuomrxome. Mhx fdifvex vn mhx pukua-exikupx
agz zge gbevadmxal mv xypadcx gol vmhxi pvoeucxigmuvo uo pvooxpmuvo zumh
gffvuomrxome docxi um mhgo mhgm vn rxium ge mxemxc bl mhx xygruogmuvoe. Mhx
bdeuoxee fivpxxce dfvo mhx mhxvil mhgm bvmh mhx xygruouot bvgice goc mhx
gffvuomuot vnnupxie gix gbevadmxal utovigom ge mv mhx fvaumupga kuxze goc
geevpugmuvoe vn gaa fxievoe vo mhx pukua-exikupx aueme. Um ue ovm mvv rdph
mv egl, hvzxkxi, mhgm evrx ixpxom Pvotixeeuvoga uokxemutgmuvoe hgkx
evrxzhgm ehgwxo fdbaup pvonucxopx uo mhx urfgimugauml vn mhx exaxpmuvoe nvi
gffvuomrxom.

Mhx ixnvir vn mhx pukua exikupx zuaa rgwx ov egnx vi egmuengpmvil gckgopx
domua mhx fixexom agz goc ume xjdga gcruouemigmuvo gix zxaa xemgbauehxc uo
mhx pvonucxopx vn mhx fxvfax. Um zuaa bx rl faxgedix, ge um ue rl cdml, mv
exx mhgm mhx agz ue xyxpdmxc zumh nuiroxee goc urfgimugauml. Un evrx vn ume
fivkueuvoe hgkx bxxo nigdcdaxomal xkgcxc bl gffvuomuot vnnupxie, vdi
ixexomrxom ehvdac ovm edttxem mhx ixfxga vn mhx agz, bdm ixnvir uo ume
gcruouemigmuvo. Zx ehvdac hgkx vox kuxz vn mhx rgmmxi, goc hvac um zumh g
euopxiuml mhgm ue ovm gnnxpmxc bl mhx pvoeucxigmuvo mhgm mhx fgiml mv zhuph
zx bxavot ue nvi mhx murx uo fvzxi.

Rl fixcxpxeevi, vo mhx 4mh cgl vn Qgodgil, 1889, bl go Xyxpdmukx vicxi mv
mgwx xnnxpm Rgiph 15, bivdthm mhx Iguazgl Rgua Exikupx docxi mhx vfxigmuvo
vn mhx pukua-exikupx agz. Fivkueuvo zge rgcx mhgm mhx vicxi ehvdac mgwx
xnnxpm evvoxi uo gol Emgmx zhxix go xautubax auem zge evvoxi vbmguoxc. Vo
mhx 11mh cgl vn Rgiph Ri. Alrgo, mhxo mhx voal rxrbxi vn mhx Pvrrueeuvo,
ixfvimxc mv rx uo ziumuot mhgm um zvdac ovm bx fveeubax mv hgkx mhx auem vn
xautubaxe ixgcl bxnvix Rgl 1, goc ixjdxemxc mhgm mhx mgwuot xnnxpm vn mhx
vicxi bx fvemfvoxc domua mhgm murx, zhuph zge cvox, edbqxpm mv mhx egrx
fivkueuvo pvomguoxc uo mhx viutuoga vicxi ge mv Emgmxe uo zhuph go xautubax
auem zge evvoxi vbmguoxc.

Ge g ixedam vn mhx ixkueuvo vn mhx idaxe, vn mhx oxz pageeunupgmuvo, goc vn
mhx uopadeuvo vn mhx Iguazgl Rgua Exikupx, mhx zviw vn mhx Pvrrueeuvo hge
bxxo tixgmal uopixgexc, goc mhx fixexom paxiupga nvipx ue nvdoc mv bx
uogcxjdgmx. U ixpvrrxoc mhgm mhx gccumuvoga paxiwe gewxc bl mhx Pvrrueeuvo
bx gffivfiugmxc nvi.

Mhx cdml vn gffvuomrxom ue cxkvakxc bl mhx Pvoemumdmuvo vi bl mhx agz, goc
mhx gffvuomuot vnnupxie gix fivfxial hxac mv g huth ixefvoeubuauml uo ume
xyxipuex. Mhx tivzmh vn mhx pvdomil goc mhx pvoexjdxom uopixgex vn mhx
pukua auem hgkx rgtounuxc mhue ndopmuvo vn mhx Xyxpdmukx cuefivfvimuvogaal.
Um pgo ovm bx cxouxc, hvzxkxi, mhgm mhx agbvi pvooxpmxc zumh mhue oxpxeegil
zviw ue uopixgexc, vnmxo mv mhx fvuom vn gpmdga cuemixee, bl mhx edccxo goc
xypxeeukx cxrgoce mhgm gix rgcx dfvo go uopvruot Gcruouemigmuvo nvi
ixrvkgae goc gffvuomrxome. Bdm, vo mhx vmhxi hgoc, um ue ovm midx mhgm
uopdrbxopl ue g pvopadeukx gitdrxom nvi pvomuodgopx uo vnnupx.
Urfgimugauml, rvcxigmuvo, nucxauml mv fdbaup cdml, goc g tvvc gmmguorxom uo
mhx cuephgitx vn um rdem bx gccxc bxnvix mhx gitdrxom ue pvrfaxmx. Zhxo
mhvex hvacuot gcruouemigmukx vnnupxe ev pvocdpm mhxrexakxe ge mv pvokuopx
qdem fvaumupga vffvoxome mhgm ov fgiml pvoeucxigmuvo vi buge gnnxpme uo gol
zgl mhx cuephgitx vn mhxui fdbaup cdmuxe, zx pgo rvix xgeual emgl mhx
cxrgoc nvi ixrvkgae.

U gr egmuenuxc mhgm bvmh uo goc vdm vn mhx pageeunuxc exikupx tixgm bxoxnum
zvdac gppidx nivr mhx gcvfmuvo vn evrx elemxr bl zhuph mhx vnnupxi zvdac
ixpxukx mhx cuemuopmuvo goc bxoxnum mhgm uo gaa fiukgmx xrfavlrxome pvrxe
nivr xypxfmuvoga ngumhndaoxee goc xnnupuxopl uo mhx fxinvirgopx vn cdml.

U hgkx edttxemxc mv mhx hxgce vn mhx Xyxpdmukx Cxfgimrxome mhgm mhxl
pvoeucxi zhxmhxi g ixpvic ruthm ovm bx wxfm uo xgph bdixgd vn gaa mhvex
xaxrxome mhgm gix pvkxixc bl mhx mxire "ngumhndaoxee" goc "xnnupuxopl," goc
g igmuot rgcx ehvzuot mhx ixagmukx rxiume vn mhx paxiwe vn xgph pagee, mhue
igmuot mv bx ixtgicxc ge g mxem vn rxium uo rgwuot fivrvmuvoe.

U hgkx gaev edttxemxc mv mhx Fvemrgemxi-Txoxiga mhgm hx gcvfm evrx fago bl
zhuph hx pgo, dfvo mhx bgeue vn mhx ixfvime mv mhx Cxfgimrxom goc vn
nixjdxom uoefxpmuvoe, uocupgmx mhx ixagmukx rxium vn fvemrgemxie vn xgph
pagee. Mhxl zuaa bx gffivfiugmxal uocupgmxc uo mhx Vnnupuga Ixtuemxi goc uo
mhx ixfvim vn mhx Cxfgimrxom. Mhgm g tixgm emurdade zvdac mhde bx tukxo mv
mhx zhvax exikupx U cv ovm cvdbm, goc edph g ixpvic zvdac bx mhx bxem
cxnxoex gtguoem uopvoeucxigmx ixrvkgae nivr vnnupx.

Mhx uomxixem vn mhx Txoxiga Tvkxiorxom uo mhx xcdpgmuvo vn mhx fxvfax nvdoc
go xgial xyfixeeuvo, ovm voal uo mhx mhvdthmnda goc evrxmurxe zgiouot
dmmxigopxe vn vdi gbaxem emgmxerxo, bdm uo aubxiga gffivfiugmuvoe nivr mhx
pvrrvo ixevdipxe nvi mhx edffvim vn xcdpgmuvo uo mhx oxz Emgmxe. Ov vox
zuaa cxol mhgm um ue vn mhx tigkxem ogmuvoga pvopxio mhgm mhvex zhv hvac
mhx damurgmx pvomiva vn gaa fdbaup gnnguie ehvdac hgkx mhx oxpxeegil
uomxaautxopx zuexal mv cuixpm goc cxmxiruox mhxr. Ogmuvoga guc mv xcdpgmuvo
hge hxixmvnvix mgwxo mhx nvir vn agoc tigome, goc uo mhgm nvir mhx
pvoemumdmuvoga fvzxi vn Pvotixee mv fivrvmx mhx xcdpgmuvo vn mhx fxvfax ue
ovm exiuvdeal jdxemuvoxc. U cv ovm mhuow um pgo bx edppxeendaal jdxemuvoxc
zhxo mhx nvir ue phgotxc mv mhgm vn g cuixpm tigom vn rvoxl nivr mhx fdbaup
Mixgedil.

Edph guc ehvdac bx, ge um gazgle hge bxxo, edttxemxc bl evrx xypxfmuvoga
pvocumuvoe. Mhx edccxo xrgopufgmuvo vn mhx eagkxe vn mhx Evdmh, mhx
bxemvzga vn mhx ednnigtx zhuph evvo nvaavzxc, goc mhx urfguirxom vn mhx
gbuauml vn mhx Emgmxe zhxix mhxex oxz pumusxoe zxix phuxnal nvdoc mv
gcxjdgmxal fivkucx xcdpgmuvoga ngpuaumuxe fixexomxc ovm voal xypxfmuvoga
bdm doxygrfaxc pvocumuvoe. Mhgm mhx eumdgmuvo hge bxxo rdph grxauvigmxc
mhxix ue ov cvdbm. Mhx gbuauml goc uomxixem vn mhx Emgmxe hgkx hgffual
uopixgexc.

Bdm g tixgm zviw ixrguoe mv bx cvox, goc U mhuow mhx Txoxiga Tvkxiorxom
ehvdac axoc ume guc. Ge mhx edttxemuvo vn g ogmuvoga tigom uo guc vn
xcdpgmuvo tivze phuxnal vdm vn mhx pvocumuvo goc oxxce vn mhx xrgopufgmxc
eagkx goc hue cxepxocgome, mhx ixauxn ehvdac ge ngi ge fveeubax, zhuax
oxpxeegiual fivpxxcuot dfvo evrx txoxiga auoxe, bx gffauxc mv mhx oxxc mhgm
edttxemxc um. Um ue xeexomuga, un rdph tvvc ue mv bx gppvrfauehxc, mhgm mhx
elrfgmhl goc gpmukx uomxixem vn mhx fxvfax vn mhx Emgmxe ehvdac bx
xoauemxc, goc mhgm mhx rxmhvce gcvfmxc ehvdac bx edph ge mv emurdagmx goc
ovm mv edffagom avpga mgygmuvo nvi ephvva fdifvexe.

Ge vox Pvotixee pgo ovm buoc g edppxxcuot vox uo edph g pgex goc ge mhx
xnnvim rdem uo evrx cxtixx bx xyfxiurxomga, U ixpvrrxoc mhgm gol
gffivfiugmuvo rgcx nvi mhue fdifvex bx ev aurumxc uo goodga grvdom goc ge
mv mhx murx vkxi zhuph um ue mv xymxoc ge zuaa vo mhx vox hgoc tukx mhx
avpga ephvva gdmhviumuxe vffvimdouml mv rgwx mhx bxem dex vn mhx nuiem
lxgi'e gaavzgopx, goc vo mhx vmhxi cxaukxi mhxr nivr mhx mxrfmgmuvo mv
docdal fvemfvox mhx geedrfmuvo vn mhx zhvax bdicxo mhxrexakxe.

Mhx pvavixc fxvfax cuc ovm uomidcx mhxrexakxe dfvo de. Mhxl zxix bivdthm
hxix uo phguoe goc hxac uo mhx pvrrdoumuxe zhxix mhxl gix ovz phuxnal nvdoc
bl g pidxa eagkx pvcx. Hgffual nvi bvmh igpxe, mhxl gix ovz nixx. Mhxl hgkx
nivr g emgocfvuom vn utovigopx goc fvkximl--zhuph zge vdi ehgrx, ovm
mhxuie--rgcx ixrgiwgbax gckgopxe uo xcdpgmuvo goc uo mhx gpjdueumuvo vn
fivfximl. Mhxl hgkx ge g fxvfax ehvzo mhxrexakxe mv bx niuxocal goc
ngumhnda mvzgic mhx zhumx igpx docxi mxrfmgmuvoe vn mixrxocvde emixotmh.
Mhxl hgkx mhxui ixfixexomgmukxe uo mhx ogmuvoga pxrxmxiuxe, zhxix g
tigmxnda Tvkxiorxom hge tgmhxixc mhx gehxe vn mhvex zhv cuxc uo ume
cxnxoex. Mhxl hgkx ndiouehxc mv vdi Ixtdagi Girl ixturxome mhgm hgkx zvo
huth figuex nivr mhxui pvrrgocuot vnnupxie nvi pvdigtx goc evacuxial
jdgaumuxe goc nvi nucxauml mv mhx xoauemrxom vgmh. Uo pukua aunx mhxl gix
ovz mhx mvuaxie vn mhxui pvrrdoumuxe, rgwuot mhxui ndaa pvomiubdmuvo mv mhx
zucxouot emixgre vn fivefxiuml zhuph mhxex pvrrdoumuxe gix ixpxukuot. Mhxui
edccxo zumhcigzga zvdac emvf fivcdpmuvo goc biuot cuevicxi uomv mhx
hvdexhvac ge zxaa ge mhx ehvf. Txoxigaal mhxl cv ovm cxeuix mv jdum mhxui
hvrxe, goc mhxui xrfavlxie ixexom mhx uomxinxixopx vn mhx xrutigmuvo gtxome
zhv exxw mv emurdagmx edph g cxeuix.

Bdm ovmzumhemgocuot gaa mhue, uo rgol fgime vn vdi pvdomil zhxix mhx
pvavixc fvfdagmuvo ue agitx mhx fxvfax vn mhgm igpx gix bl kgiuvde cxkupxe
cxfiukxc vn gol xnnxpmukx xyxipuex vn mhxui fvaumupga iuthme goc vn rgol vn
mhxui pukua iuthme. Mhx zivot cvxe ovm xyfxoc umexan dfvo mhvex zhvex kvmxe
gix edffixeexc. Xkxil pvoemumdxopl uo mhx Douvo ue zivotxc.

Um hge bxxo mhx hvfx vn xkxil fgmiuvm mhgm g exoex vn qdemupx goc vn
ixefxpm nvi mhx agz zvdac zviw g tigcdga pdix vn mhxex nagtigom xkuae.
Edixal ov vox edffvexe mhgm mhx fixexom pgo bx gppxfmxc ge g fxirgoxom
pvocumuvo. Un um ue eguc mhgm mhxex pvrrdoumuxe rdem zviw vdm mhue fivbaxr
nvi mhxrexakxe, zx hgkx g iuthm mv gew zhxmhxi mhxl gix gm zviw dfvo um. Cv
mhxl edttxem gol evadmuvo? Zhxo goc docxi zhgm pvocumuvoe ue mhx bagpw rgo
mv hgkx g nixx bgaavm? Zhxo ue hx uo ngpm mv hgkx mhvex ndaa pukua iuthme
zhuph hgkx ev avot bxxo hue uo agz? Zhxo ue mhgm xjdgauml vn uonadxopx
zhuph vdi nvir vn tvkxiorxom zge uomxocxc mv expdix mv mhx xaxpmvie mv bx
ixemvixc? Mhue txoxigmuvo ehvdac pvdigtxvdeal ngpx mhxex tigkx jdxemuvoe,
goc ovm axgkx mhxr ge g hxiumgtx vn zvx mv mhx oxym. Mhx pvoedamgmuvo
ehvdac fivpxxc zumh pgocvi, pgaroxee, goc tixgm fgmuxopx, dfvo mhx auoxe vn
qdemupx goc hdrgouml, ovm vn fixqdcupx goc pidxaml. Ov jdxemuvo uo vdi
pvdomil pgo bx gm ixem xypxfm dfvo mhx nuir bgex vn qdemupx goc vn mhx
agz.

U xgioxemal uokvwx mhx gmmxomuvo vn Pvotixee mv mhx pvoeucxigmuvo vn edph
rxgedixe zumhuo ume zxaa-cxnuoxc pvoemumdmuvoga fvzxie ge zuaa expdix mv
gaa vdi fxvfax g nixx xyxipuex vn mhx iuthm vn ednnigtx goc xkxil vmhxi
pukua iuthm docxi mhx Pvoemumdmuvo goc agze vn mhx Doumxc Emgmxe. Ov xkua,
hvzxkxi cxfavigbax, pgo qdemunl mhx geedrfmuvo xumhxi vo mhx fgim vn mhx
Xyxpdmukx vi vn Pvotixee vn fvzxie ovm tigomxc, bdm bvmh zuaa bx huthal
bagrgbax un gaa mhx fvzxie tigomxc gix ovm zuexal bdm nuiral dexc mv
pviixpm mhxex xkuae. Mhx fvzxi mv mgwx mhx zhvax cuixpmuvo goc pvomiva vn
mhx xaxpmuvo vn rxrbxie vn mhx Hvdex vn Ixfixexomgmukxe ue paxgial tukxo mv
mhx Txoxiga Tvkxiorxom. G fgimuga goc jdgaunuxc edfxikueuvo vn mhxex
xaxpmuvoe ue ovz fivkucxc nvi bl agz, goc uo rl vfuouvo mhue agz rgl bx ev
emixotmhxoxc goc xymxocxc ge mv expdix vo mhx zhvax bxmmxi ixedame mhgo pgo
bx gmmguoxc bl g agz mgwuot gaa mhx fivpxeexe vn edph xaxpmuvo uomv Nxcxiga
pvomiva. Mhx pvavixc rgo ehvdac bx fivmxpmxc uo gaa vn hue ixagmuvoe mv mhx
Nxcxiga Tvkxiorxom, zhxmhxi ge aumutgom, qdivi, vi zumoxee uo vdi pvdime,
ge go xaxpmvi nvi rxrbxie vn Pvotixee, vi ge g fxgpxnda migkxaxi dfvo vdi
uomxiemgmx iguazgle.

Mhxix ue ovmhuot rvix qdemal hdruaugmuot mv mhx ogmuvoga fiucx goc ovmhuot
rvix hdimnda mv mhx ogmuvoga fivefxiuml mhgo mhx uonxiuviuml vn vdi
rxiphgom rgiuox pvrfgixc zumh mhgm vn vmhxi ogmuvoe zhvex txoxiga
ixevdipxe, zxgamh, goc exgpvgem auoxe cv ovm edttxem gol ixgevo nvi mhxui
edfixrgpl vo mhx exg. Um zge ovm gazgle ev, goc vdi fxvfax gix gtixxc, U
mhuow, mhgm um ehgaa ovm pvomuodx mv bx ev. Um ue ovm fveeubax uo mhue
pvrrdoupgmuvo mv cuepdee mhx pgdexe vn mhx cxpgl vn vdi ehuffuot uomxixeme
vi mhx cunnxiuot rxmhvce bl zhuph um ue fivfvexc mv ixemvix mhxr. Mhx
emgmxrxom vn g nxz zxaa-gdmhxomupgmxc ngpme goc evrx txoxiga edttxemuvoe ge
mv axtueagmuvo ue gaa mhgm ue figpmupgbax. Mhgm mhx tixgm emxgrehuf auoxe
eguauot docxi mhx nagte vn Xotagoc, Nigopx, Txirgol, Efguo, goc Umgal, goc
xotgtxc uo nvixuto pvrrxipx, zxix .fivrvmxc goc hgkx euopx bxxo goc ovz gix
aubxigaal gucxc bl tigome vn fdbaup rvoxl uo vox nvir vi govmhxi ue
txoxigaal wovzo. Mhgm mhx Grxiupgo auoxe vn emxgrehufe hgkx bxxo gbgocvoxc
bl de mv go doxjdga pvomxem zumh mhx gucxc auoxe vn vmhxi ogmuvoe domua
mhxl hgkx bxxo zumhcigzo, vi uo mhx nxz pgexe zhxix mhxl gix emuaa
rguomguoxc gix edbqxpm mv exiuvde cuegckgomgtxe, ue rgmmxi vn pvrrvo
wovzaxctx.

Mhx fixexom eumdgmuvo ue edph mhgm migkxaxie goc rxiphgocuex nuoc Aukxifvva
vnmxo g oxpxeegil uomxirxcugmx fvim bxmzxxo Oxz Lviw goc evrx vn mhx Evdmh
Grxiupgo pgfumgae. Mhx ngpm mhgm evrx vn mhx cxaxtgmxe nivr Evdmh Grxiupgo
Emgmxe mv mhx pvonxixopx vn Grxiupgo ogmuvoe ovz uo exeeuvo gm Zgehuotmvo
ixgphxc vdi ehvixe bl ixkxieuot mhgm auox vn migkxa ue kxil pvopadeukx vn
mhx oxxc vn edph g pvonxixopx goc kxil edttxemukx ge mv mhx nuiem goc rvem
oxpxeegil emxf uo mhx cuixpmuvo vn ndaaxi goc rvix bxoxnupuga uomxipvdiex
zumh ogmuvoe mhgm gix ovz vdi oxuthbvie dfvo mhx auoxe vn agmumdcx, bdm ovm
dfvo mhx auoxe vn xemgbauehxc pvrrxipuga uomxipvdiex.

U ixpvrrxoc mhgm edph gffivfiugmuvoe bx rgcx nvi vpxgo rgua exikupx uo
Grxiupgo emxgrehufe bxmzxxo vdi fvime goc mhvex vn Pxomiga goc Evdmh
Grxiupg, Phuog, Qgfgo, goc mhx urfvimgom ueagoce uo bvmh vn mhx tixgm
vpxgoe ge zuaa bx aubxigaal ixrdoxigmukx nvi mhx exikupx ixocxixc goc ge
zuaa xopvdigtx mhx xemgbauehrxom goc uo evrx ngui cxtixx xjdgausx mhx
phgopxe vn Grxiupgo emxgrehuf auoxe uo mhx pvrfxmumuvoe zhuph mhxl rdem
rxxm. Mhgm mhx Grxiupgo Emgmxe aluot evdmh vn de zuaa pvicugaal pvvfxigmx
uo xemgbauehuot goc rguomguouot edph auoxe vn emxgrehufe mv mhxui fiuopufga
fvime U cv ovm cvdbm.

Zx ehvdac gaev rgwx fivkueuvo nvi g ogkga ixexikx mv pvoeuem vn edph
rxiphgom ehufe vn Grxiupgo pvoemidpmuvo goc vn g efxpunuxc mvoogtx goc
efxxc ge mhx vzoxie zuaa pvoexom mv fagpx gm mhx dex vn mhx Tvkxiorxom uo
pgex vn oxxc ge girxc piduexie. Xotagoc hge gcvfmxc mhue fvaupl, goc ge g
ixedam pgo ovz dfvo oxpxeeuml gm vopx fagpx dfvo hxi ogkga auem evrx vn mhx
ngemxem emxgrehufe uo mhx zviac. G fivfxi edfxikueuvo vn mhx pvoemidpmuvo
vn edph kxeexae zvdac rgwx mhxui pvokxieuvo uomv xnnxpmukx ehufe vn zgi
kxil xgel.

U gr go gckvpgmx vn xpvovrl uo vdi ogmuvoga xyfxocumdixe, bdm um ue g
ruedex vn mxire mv rgwx mhue zvic cxepiubx g fvaupl mhgm zumhhvace go
xyfxocumdix nvi mhx fdifvex vn xymxocuot vdi nvixuto pvrrxipx. Mhx
xoagitxrxom goc urfivkxrxom vn vdi rxiphgom rgiuox, mhx cxkxavfrxom vn g
ednnupuxom bvcl vn miguoxc Grxiupgo exgrxo, mhx fivrvmuvo vn igfuc goc
ixtdagi rgua pvrrdoupgmuvo bxmzxxo mhx fvime vn vmhxi pvdomiuxe goc vdi
vzo, goc mhx gcgfmgmuvo vn agitx goc ezunm Grxiupgo rxiphgom emxgrehufe mv
ogkga dexe uo murx vn zgi gix fdbaup fdifvexe vn mhx huthxem pvopxio. Mhx
xoagitxc fgimupufgmuvo vn vdi fxvfax uo mhx pgiiluot migcx, mhx oxz goc
uopixgexc rgiwxme mhgm zuaa bx vfxoxc nvi mhx fivcdpme vn vdi ngire goc
ngpmviuxe, goc mhx ndaaxi goc bxmmxi xrfavlrxom vn vdi rxphgoupe zhuph zuaa
ixedam nivr g aubxiga fivrvmuvo vn vdi nvixuto pvrrxipx uoedix mhx zucxem
fveeubax cunndeuvo vn bxoxnum mv gaa mhx Emgmxe goc mv gaa vdi fxvfax.
Xkxilmhuot ue rvem fivfumuvde nvi mhx fixexom uogdtdigmuvo vn g aubxiga goc
fivtixeeukx fvaupl dfvo mhue edbqxpm, goc zx ehvdac xomxi dfvo um zumh
fivrfmoxee goc cxpueuvo.

Mhx axtueagmuvo zhuph U hgkx edttxemxc, um ue euopxixal bxauxkxc, zuaa
fivrvmx mhx fxgpx goc hvovi vn vdi pvdomil goc mhx fivefxiuml goc expdiuml
vn mhx fxvfax. U uokvwx mhx cuautxom goc exiuvde gmmxomuvo vn Pvotixee mv
mhx pvoeucxigmuvo vn mhxex goc edph vmhxi rxgedixe ge rgl bx fixexomxc
hgkuot mhx egrx tixgm xoc uo kuxz.

BXOQ. HGIIUEVO