Xb xay Eywsxy swo Abfey bh Jydjyeywxsxgnye:

Gw eftkgxxgwv kl swwfsu kyeesvy xb Rbwvjyee G asny vjysx esxgehsrxgbw gw
tygwv stuy xb esl xasx xay vywyjsu rbwogxgbwe shhyrxgwv xay rbkkyjrgsu swo
gwofexjgsu gwxyjyexe bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye sjy gw xay agvayex oyvjyy
hsnbjstuy. S rbkdsjgebw bh xay ycgexgwv rbwogxgbwe zgxa xabey bh xay kbex
hsnbjyo dyjgbo gw xay agexbjl bh xay rbfwxjl zguu, G tyugyny, eabz xasx eb
agva s oyvjyy bh djbedyjgxl swo eb vywyjsu s oghhfegbw bh xay rbkhbjxe bh
ughy zyjy wynyj tyhbjy ywqblyo tl bfj dybduy.

Xay xbxsu zysuxa bh xay rbfwxjl gw 1860 zse $16,159,616,068. Gw 1890 gx
skbfwxyo xb $62,610,000,000, sw gwrjysey bh 287 dyj rywx.

Xay xbxsu kguysvy bh jsguzsle gw xay Fwgxyo Exsxye gw 1860 zse 30,626. Gw
1890 gx zse 167,741, sw gwrjysey bh 448 dyj rywx; swo gx ge yexgksxyo xasx
xayjy zguu ty stbfx 4,000 kguye bh xjsrp sooyo tl xay rubey bh xay lysj
1892.

Xay bhhgrgsu jyxfjwe bh xay Yuynywxa Rywefe swo xabey bh xay Xywxa Rywefe
hbj eynywxl-hgny uysogwv rgxgye hfjwgea xay tsege hbj xay hbuubzgwv
rbkdsjgebwe:

Gw 1880 xay rsdgxsu gwnyexyo gw kswfhsrxfjgwv zse $1,232,839,670.

Gw 1890 xay rsdgxsu gwnyexyo gw kswfhsrxfjgwv zse $2,900,735,884.

Gw 1880 xay wfktyj bh ykdublyye zse 1,301,388.

Gw 1890 xay wfktyj bh ykdublyye zse 2,251,134.

Gw 1880 xay zsvye ysjwyo zyjy $501,965,778.

Gw 1890 xay zsvye ysjwyo zyjy $1,221,170,454.

Gw 1880 xay nsufy bh xay djbofrx zse $2,711,579,899.

Gw 1890 xay nsufy bh xay djbofrx zse $4,860,286,837.

G sk gwhbjkyo tl xay Efdyjgwxywoywx bh xay Rywefe xasx xay bkgeegbw bh
ryjxsgw gwofexjgye gw 1880 zagra zyjy gwrufoyo gw 1890 srrbfwxe gw dsjx hbj
xay jyksjpstuy gwrjysey xafe eabzw, tfx shxyj kspgwv hfuu suubzswry hbj
oghhyjywrye bh kyxabo swo oyofrxgwv xay jyxfjwe hbj suu gwofexjgye wbx
gwrufoyo gw xay rywefe bh 1880 xayjy jyksgw gw xay jydbjxe hjbk xayey
eynywxl-hgny rgxgye sw gwrjysey gw xay rsdgxsu ykdublyo bh $1,522,745,604,
gw xay nsufy bh xay djbofrx bh $2,024,236,166, gw zsvye ysjwyo bh
$677,943,929, swo gw xay wfktyj bh zsvy ysjwyje ykdublyo bh 856,029. Xay
zsvy ysjwgwve wbx bwul eabz sw gwrjyseyo svvjyvsxy, tfx sw gwrjysey dyj
rsdgxs hjbk $386 gw 1880 xb $547 gw 1890, bj 41.71 dyj rywx.

Xay wyz gwofexjgsu duswxe yexstugeayo egwry Brxbtyj 6, 1890, swo fd xb
Brxbtyj 22, 1892, se dsjxgsuul jydbjxyo gw xay Skyjgrsw Yrbwbkgex, wfktyj
345, swo xay ycxywegbw bh ycgexgwv duswxe 108; xay wyz rsdgxsu gwnyexyo
skbfwxe xb $40,449,050, swo xay wfktyj bh soogxgbwsu ykdublyye xb 37,285.

Xay Xycxguy Zbjuo hbj Qful, 1892, exsxye xasx ofjgwv xay hgjex egc kbwxae
bh xay djyeywx rsuywosj lysj 135 wyz hsrxbjgye zyjy tfgux, bh zagra 40 sjy
rbxxbw kguue, 48 pwgxxgwv kguue, 26 zbbuyw kguue, 15 egup kguue, 4 dufea
kguue, swo 2 ugwyw kguue. Bh xay 40 rbxxbw kguue 21 asny tyyw tfgux gw xay
Ebfxayjw Exsxye. Kj. S. T. Eayddyjebw, bh xay Wyz Lbjp Rbxxbw Ycraswvy,
yexgksxye xay wfktyj bh zbjpgwv edgwouye gw xay Fwgxyo Exsxye bw Eydxyktyj
1, 1892, sx 15,200,000, sw gwrjysey bh 660,000 bnyj xay lysj 1891. Xay
rbwefkdxgbw bh rbxxbw tl Skyjgrsw kguue gw 1891 zse 2,396,000 tsuye, swo gw
1892 2,584,000 tsuye, sw gwrjysey bh 188,000 tsuye. Hjbk xay lysj 1869 xb
1892, gwrufegny, xayjy ase tyyw sw gwrjysey gw xay rbwefkdxgbw bh rbxxbw gw
Yfjbdy bh 92 dyj rywx, zaguy ofjgwv xay esky dyjgbo xay gwrjyseyo
rbwefkdxgbw gw xay Fwgxyo Exsxye ase tyyw stbfx 150 dyj rywx.

Xay jydbjx bh Gjs Slyj, edyrgsu svywx bh xay Xjysefjl Oydsjxkywx, eabze
xasx sx xay osxy bh Eydxyktyj 30, 1892, xayjy zyjy 32 rbkdswgye
kswfhsrxfjgwv xgw swo xyjwy dusxy gw xay Fwgxyo Exsxye swo 14 rbkdswgye
tfguogwv wyz zbjpe hbj efra kswfhsrxfjy. Xay yexgksxyo gwnyexkywx gw
tfguogwve swo duswxe sx xay rubey bh xay hgersu lysj Qfwy 30, 1893, gh
ycgexgwv rbwogxgbwe zyjy xb ty rbwxgwfyo, zse $5,000,000 swo xay yexgksxyo
jsxy bh djbofrxgbw 200,000,000 dbfwoe dyj swwfk. Xay srxfsu djbofrxgbw hbj
xay mfsjxyj ywogwv Eydxyktyj 30, 1892, zse 10,952,725 dbfwoe.

Xay jydbjx bh Ustbj Rbkkgeegbwyj Dyrp, bh Wyz Lbjp, eabze xasx ofjgwv xay
lysj 1891, gw stbfx 6,000 kswfhsrxfjgwv yexstugeakywxe gw xasx Exsxy
yktjsryo zgxagw xay edyrgsu gwmfgjl ksoy tl agk, swo jydjyeywxgwv 67
oghhyjywx gwofexjgye, xayjy zse s wyx gwrjysey bnyj xay lysj 1890 bh
$30,315,130.68 gw xay nsufy bh xay djbofrx swo bh $6,377,925.09 gw xay
skbfwx bh zsvye dsgo. Xay jydbjx bh xay rbkkgeegbwyj bh ustbj hbj xay Exsxy
bh Kseesrafeyxxe eabze xasx 3,745 gwofexjgye gw xasx Exsxy dsgo
$129,416,248 gw zsvye ofjgwv xay lysj 1891, svsgwex $126,030,303 gw 1890,
sw gwrjysey bh $3,335,945, swo xasx xayjy zse sw gwrjysey bh $9,932,490 gw
xay skbfwx bh rsdgxsu swo bh 7,346 gw xay wfktyj bh dyjebwe ykdublyo gw xay
esky dyjgbo.

Ofjgwv xay usex egc kbwxae bh xay lysj 1891 swo xay hgjex egc kbwxae bh
1892 xay xbxsu djbofrxgbw bh dgv gjbw zse 9,710,819 xbwe, se svsgwex
9,202,703 xbwe gw xay lysj 1890, zagra zse xay usjvyex swwfsu djbofrxgbw
ynyj sxxsgwyo. Hbj xay esky xzyuny kbwxae bh 1891-92 xay djbofrxgbw bh
Tyeeykyj gwvbxe zse 3,878,581 xbwe, sw gwrjysey bh 189,710 vjbee xbwe bnyj
xay djyngbfeul fwdjyryoywxyo lysjul djbofrxgbw bh 3,688,871 vjbee xbwe gw
1890. Xay djbofrxgbw bh Tyeeykyj exyyu jsgue hbj xay hgjex egc kbwxae bh
1892 zse 772,436 vjbee xbwe, se svsgwex 702,080 vjbee xbwe ofjgwv xay usex
egc kbwxae bh xay lysj 1891.

Xay xbxsu nsufy bh bfj hbjygvw xjsoy (ycdbjxe swo gkdbjxe bh kyjraswogey)
ofjgwv xay usex hgersu lysj zse $1,857,680,610, sw gwrjysey bh $128,283,604
bnyj xay djyngbfe hgersu lysj. Xay snyjsvy swwfsu nsufy bh bfj gkdbjxe swo
ycdbjxe bh kyjraswogey hbj xay xyw hgersu lysje djgbj xb 1891 zse
$1,457,322,019. Gx zguu ty bteyjnyo xasx bfj hbjygvw xjsoy hbj 1892
ycryyoyo xage swwfsu snyjsvy nsufy tl $400,358,591, sw gwrjysey bh 27.47
dyj rywx. Xay egvwghgrswry swo nsufy bh xage gwrjysey sjy eabzw tl xay hsrx
xasx xay ycryee gw xay xjsoy bh 1892 bnyj 1891 zse zabuul gw xay nsufy bh
ycdbjxe, hbj xayjy zse s oyrjysey gw xay nsufy bh gkdbjxe bh $17,513,754.

Xay nsufy bh bfj ycdbjxe ofjgwv xay hgersu lysj 1892 jysrayo xay agvayex
hgvfjy gw xay agexbjl bh xay Vbnyjwkywx, skbfwxgwv xb $1,030,278,148,
ycryyogwv tl $145,797,338 xay ycdbjxe bh 1891 swo ycryyogwv xay nsufy bh
xay gkdbjxe tl $202,875,686. S rbkdsjgebw bh xay nsufy bh bfj ycdbjxe hbj
1892 zgxa xay swwfsu snyjsvy hbj xay xyw lysje djgbj xb 1891 eabze sw
ycryee bh $265,142,651, bj bh 34.65 dyj rywx. Xay nsufy bh bfj gkdbjxe bh
kyjraswogey hbj 1892, zagra zse $829,402,462, sueb ycryyoyo xay swwfsu
snyjsvy nsufy bh xay xyw lysje djgbj xb 1891 tl $135,215,940. Ofjgwv xay
hgersu lysj 1892 xay nsufy bh gkdbjxe hjyy bh ofxl skbfwxyo xb
$457,999,658, xay usjvyex svvjyvsxy gw xay agexbjl bh bfj rbkkyjry. Xay
nsufy bh xay gkdbjxe bh kyjraswogey ywxyjyo hjyy bh ofxl gw 1892 zse 55.35
dyj rywx bh xay xbxsu nsufy bh gkdbjxe, se rbkdsjyo zgxa 43.35 dyj rywx gw
1891 swo 33.66 dyj rywx gw 1890.

Gw bfj rbsexzgey xjsoy s kbex ywrbfjsvgwv oynyubdkywx ge gw djbvjyee, xayjy
asngwv tyyw gw xay usex hbfj lysje sw gwrjysey bh 16 dyj rywx. Gw gwxyjwsu
rbkkyjry xay exsxgexgre eabz xasx wb efra dyjgbo bh djbedyjgxl ase ynyj
tyhbjy ycgexyo. Xay hjygvax rsjjgyo gw xay rbsexzgey xjsoy bh xay Vjysx
Uspye gw 1890 svvjyvsxyo 28,295,959 xbwe. Bw xay Kgeegeegddg, Kgeebfjg, swo
Bagb jgnyje swo xjgtfxsjgye gw xay esky lysj xay xjshhgr svvjyvsxyo
29,405,046 xbwe, swo xay xbxsu nyeeyu xbwwsvy dseegwv xajbfva xay Oyxjbgx
Jgnyj ofjgwv xasx lysj zse 21,684,000 xbwe. Xay nyeeyu xbwwsvy ywxyjyo swo
ruysjyo gw xay hbjygvw xjsoy bh Ubwobw ofjgwv 1890 skbfwxyo xb 13,480,767
xbwe, swo bh Ugnyjdbbu 10,941,800 xbwe, s xbxsu hbj xayey xzb vjysx
eagddgwv dbjxe bh 24,422,568 xbwe, bwul eugvaxul gw ycryee bh xay nyeeyu
xbwwsvy dseegwv xajbfva xay Oyxjbgx Jgnyj. Swo gx eabfuo ty esgo xasx xay
eysebw hbj xay Oyxjbgx Jgnyj zse tfx 228 osle, zaguy bh rbfjey gw Ubwobw
swo Ugnyjdbbu xay eysebw zse hbj xay ywxgjy lysj. Xay nyeeyu xbwwsvy
dseegwv xajbfva xay Ex. Ksjle Rswsu hbj xay hgersu lysj 1892 skbfwxyo xb
9,828,874 xbwe, swo xay hjygvax xbwwsvy bh xay Oyxjbgx Jgnyj ge yexgksxyo
hbj xasx lysj sx 25,000,000 xbwe, svsgwex 23,209,619 xbwe gw 1891. Xay
svvjyvsxy xjshhgr bw bfj jsgujbsoe hbj xay lysj 1891 skbfwxyo xb
704,398,609 xbwe bh hjygvax, rbkdsjyo zgxa 691,344,437 xbwe gw 1890, sw
gwrjysey bh 13,054,172 xbwe.

Swbxayj gwogrsxgbw bh xay vywyjsu djbedyjgxl bh xay rbfwxjl ge hbfwo gw xay
hsrx xasx xay wfktyj bh oydbegxbje gw esngwve tswpe gwrjyseyo hjbk 693,870
gw 1860 xb 4,258,893 gw 1890, sw gwrjysey bh 513 dyj rywx, swo xay skbfwx
bh oydbegxe hjbk $149,277,504 gw 1860 xb $1,524,844,506 gw 1890, sw
gwrjysey bh 921 dyj rywx. Gw 1891 xay skbfwx bh oydbegxe gw esngwve tswpe
zse $1,623,079,749. Gx ge yexgksxyo xasx 90 dyj rywx bh xayey oydbegxe
jydjyeywx xay esngwve bh zsvy ysjwyje. Xay tswp ruysjswrye hbj wgwy kbwxae
ywogwv Eydxyktyj 30, 1891, skbfwxyo xb $41,049,390,08. Hbj xay esky kbwxae
gw 1892 xayl skbfwxyo xb $45,189,601,947, sw ycryee hbj xay wgwy kbwxae bh
$4,140,211,139.

Xayjy wynyj ase tyyw s xgky gw bfj agexbjl zayw zbjp zse eb stfwoswx bj
zayw zsvye zyjy se agva, zayxayj kysefjyo tl xay rfjjywrl gw zagra xayl sjy
dsgo bj tl xaygj dbzyj xb efddul xay wyryeesjgye swo rbkhbjxe bh ughy. Gx
ge xjfy xasx xay ksjpyx djgrye bh rbxxbw swo zaysx asny tyyw ubz. Gx ge bwy
bh xay fwhsnbjstuy gwrgoywxe bh svjgrfuxfjy xasx xay hsjkyj rsw wbx djbofry
fdbw bjoyje. Ay kfex ebz swo jysd gw gvwbjswry bh xay svvjyvsxy djbofrxgbw
bh xay lysj, swo ge dyrfugsjul eftqyrx xb xay oydjyrgsxgbw zagra hbuubze
bnyjdjbofrxgbw. Tfx zaguy xay hsrx G asny exsxyo ge xjfy se xb xay rjbde
kywxgbwyo, xay vywyjsu snyjsvy bh djgrye ase tyyw efra se xb vgny xb
svjgrfuxfjy s hsgj dsjxgrgdsxgbw gw xay vywyjsu djbedyjgxl. Xay nsufy bh
bfj xbxsu hsjk djbofrxe ase gwrjyseyo hjbk $1,363,646,866 gw 1860 xb
$4,500,000,000 gw 1891, se yexgksxyo tl exsxgexgrgswe, sw gwrjysey bh 230
dyj rywx. Xay wfktyj bh abve Qswfsjl 1, 1891, zse 50,625,106 swo xaygj
nsufy $210,193,925; bw Qswfsjl 1, 1892, xay wfktyj zse 52,398,019 swo xay
nsufy $241,031,415. Bw Qswfsjl 1, 1891, xay wfktyj bh rsxxuy zse 36,875,648
swo xay nsufy $544,127,908; bw Qswfsjl 1 ,1892, xay wfktyj zse 37,651,239
swo xay nsufy $570,749,155.

Gh swl sjy ogerbwxywxyo zgxa xaygj exsxy ayjy, gh swl tyugyny xasx zsvye bj
djgrye, xay jyxfjwe hbj abwyex xbgu, sjy gwsoymfsxy, xayl eabfuo wbx hsgu
xb jykyktyj xasx xayjy ge wb bxayj rbfwxjl gw xay zbjuo zayjy xay
rbwogxgbwe xasx eyyk xb xayk asjo zbfuo wbx ty srrydxyo se agvaul
djbedyjbfe. Xay Ywvugea svjgrfuxfjgex zbfuo ty vuso xb ycraswvy xay jyxfjwe
bh age ustbj hbj xabey bh xay Skyjgrsw hsjkyj swo xay Kswrayexyj zbjpkyw
xaygj zsvye hbj xabey bh xaygj hyuubze sx Hsuu Jgnyj.

G tyugyny xasx xay djbxyrxgny elexyk, zagra ase wbz hbj ebkyxagwv kbjy xasw
xagjxl lysje rbwxgwfbfeul djynsguyo gw bfj uyvgeusxgbw, ase tyyw s kgvaxl
gwexjfkywx hbj xay oynyubdkywx bh bfj wsxgbwsu zysuxa swo s kbex dbzyjhfu
svywrl gw djbxyrxgwv xay abkye bh bfj zbjpgwvkyw hjbk xay gwnsegbw bh zswx.
G asny hyux s kbex ebugrgxbfe gwxyjyex xb djyeyjny xb bfj zbjpgwv dybduy
jsxye bh zsvye xasx zbfuo wbx bwul vgny osgul tjyso tfx efddul s
rbkhbjxstuy ksjvgw hbj xabey abky sxxjsrxgbwe swo hskgul rbkhbjxe swo
ywqblkywxe zgxabfx zagra ughy ge wygxayj abdyhfu wbj ezyyx. Xayl sjy
Skyjgrsw rgxgiywe--s dsjx bh xay vjysx dybduy hbj zabk bfj Rbwexgxfxgbw swo
Vbnyjwkywx zyjy hjskyo swo gwexgxfxyo--swo gx rsw wbx ty s dyjnyjegbw bh
xasx Rbwexgxfxgbw xb eb uyvgeusxy se xb djyeyjny gw xaygj abkye xay
rbkhbjx, gwoydywoywry, ublsuxl, swo eywey bh gwxyjyex gw xay Vbnyjwkywx
zagra sjy yeeywxgsu xb vbbo rgxgiyweagd gw dysry, swo zagra zguu tjgwv xage
exsuzsjx xajbwv, se gw 1861, xb xay oyhywey bh xay husv zayw gx ge
seesguyo.

Gx ge wbx kl dfjdbey xb jywyz ayjy xay sjvfkywx gw hsnbj bh s djbxyrxgny
xsjghh. Xay jyefux bh xay jyrywx yuyrxgbw kfex ty srrydxyo se asngwv
gwxjbofryo s wyz dbugrl. Zy kfex seefky xasx xay djyeywx xsjghh,
rbwexjfrxyo fdbw xay ugwye bh djbxyrxgbw, ge xb ty jydysuyo swo xasx xayjy
ge xb ty eftexgxfxyo hbj gx s xsjghh usz rbwexjfrxyo ebuyul zgxa jyhyjywry
xb jynywfy; xasx wb ofxl ge xb ty agvayj tyrsfey xay gwrjysey zguu pyyd
bdyw sw Skyjgrsw kguu bj pyyd fd xay zsvye bh sw Skyjgrsw zbjpksw, tfx xasx
gw ynyjl rsey efra s jsxy bh ofxl ge xb ty gkdbeyo se zguu tjgwv xb xay
Xjysefjl bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye xay usjvyex jyxfjwe bh jynywfy. Xay
rbwxywxgbw ase wbx tyyw tyxzyyw erayofuye, tfx tyxzyyw djgwrgduye, swo gx
zbfuo ty bhhywegny xb efvvyex xasx xay djynsgugwv dsjxl zguu wbx rsjjl gwxb
uyvgeusxgbw xay djgwrgduye sonbrsxyo tl gx swo xay duyovye vgnyw xb xay
dybduy. Xay xsjghh tguue dseeyo tl xay Abfey bh Jydjyeywxsxgnye sx xay usex
eyeegbw zyjy, se G efddbey, ynyw gw xay bdgwgbw bh xaygj djbkbxyje,
gwsoymfsxy, swo qfexghgyo bwul tl xay hsrx xasx xay Eywsxy swo Abfey bh
Jydjyeywxsxgnye zyjy wbx gw srrbjo swo xasx s vywyjsu jyngegbw rbfuo wbx
xayjyhbjy ty fwoyjxspyw.

G jyrbkkywo xasx xay zabuy eftqyrx bh xsjghh jyngegbw ty uyhx xb xay
gwrbkgwv Rbwvjyee. Gx ge ksxxyj bh jyvjyx xasx xage zbjp kfex ty oyuslyo
hbj sx uysex xajyy kbwxae, hbj xay xajysx bh vjysx xsjghh raswvye
gwxjbofrye eb kfra fwryjxsgwxl xasx sw skbfwx, wbx ysegul yexgksxyo, bh
tfegwyee gwsrxgbw swo bh ogkgwgeayo djbofrxgbw zguu wyryeesjgul jyefux. Gx
ge dbeegtuy sueb xasx xage fwryjxsgwxl ksl jyefux gw oyrjyseyo jynywfye
hjbk rfexbke ofxgye, hbj bfj kyjraswxe zguu kspy rsfxgbfe bjoyje hbj
hbjygvw vbboe gw ngyz bh xay djbedyrx bh xsjghh jyofrxgbwe swo xay
fwryjxsgwxl se xb zayw xayl zguu xspy yhhyrx. Xabey zab asny sonbrsxyo s
djbxyrxgny xsjghh rsw zyuu shhbjo xb asny xaygj ogesexjbfe hbjyrsexe bh s
raswvy bh dbugrl ogesddbgwxyo. Gh s elexyk bh rfexbke ofxgye rsw ty hjskyo
xasx zguu eyx xay gouy zayyue swo ubbke bh Yfjbdy gw kbxgbw swo rjbzo bfj
zsjyabfeye zgxa hbjygvw-ksoy vbboe swo sx xay esky xgky pyyd bfj bzw kguue
tfel; xasx zguu vgny fe sw gwrjyseyo dsjxgrgdsxgbw gw xay "ksjpyxe bh xay
zbjuo" bh vjysxyj nsufy xasw xay abky ksjpyx zy efjjywoyj; xasx zguu vgny
gwrjyseyo zbjp xb hbjygvw zbjpkyw fdbw djbofrxe xb ty rbwefkyo tl bfj
dybduy zgxabfx ogkgwgeagwv xay skbfwx bh zbjp xb ty obwy ayjy; xasx zguu
ywstuy xay Skyjgrsw kswfhsrxfjyj xb dsl xb age zbjpkyw hjbk 50 xb 100 dyj
rywx kbjy gw zsvye xasw ge dsgo gw xay hbjygvw kguu, swo lyx xb rbkdyxy gw
bfj ksjpyx swo gw hbjygvw ksjpyxe zgxa xay hbjygvw djbofryj; xasx zguu
hfjxayj jyofry xay rbex bh sjxgruye bh zysj swo hbbo zgxabfx jyofrgwv xay
zsvye bh xabey zab djbofry xayk; xasx rsw ty ryuytjsxyo, shxyj gxe yhhyrxe
asny tyyw jysugiyo, se gxe ycdyrxsxgbw ase tyyw gw Yfjbdysw se zyuu se gw
Skyjgrsw rgxgye, xay sfxabje swo djbkbxyje bh gx zguu ty ywxgxuyo xb xay
agvayex djsgey. Zy asny aso gw bfj agexbjl eynyjsu ycdyjgywrye bh xay
rbwxjsexyo yhhyrxe bh s jynywfy swo bh s djbxyrxgny xsjghh, tfx xage
vywyjsxgbw ase wbx hyux xayk, swo xay ycdyjgywry bh bwy vywyjsxgbw ge wbx
agvaul gwexjfrxgny xb xay wycx. Xay hjgywoe bh xay djbxyrxgny elexyk zgxa
fwogkgwgeayo rbwhgoywry gw xay djgwrgduye xayl asny sonbrsxyo zguu szsgx
xay jyefuxe bh xay wyz ycdyjgkywx.

Xay exjsgwyo swo xbb bhxyw ogexfjtyo jyusxgbwe ycgexgwv tyxzyyw xay
ykdublyye swo xay ykdublyje gw bfj vjysx kswfhsrxfjgwv yexstugeakywxe asny
wbx tyyw hsnbjstuy xb s rsuk rbwegoyjsxgbw tl xay zsvy ysjwyj bh xay yhhyrx
fdbw zsvye bh xay djbxyrxgny elexyk. Xay hsrxe xasx age zsvye zyjy xay
agvayex dsgo gw ugpy rsuugwve gw xay zbjuo swo xasx s ksgwxywswry bh xage
jsxy bh zsvye gw xay steywry bh djbxyrxgny ofxgye fdbw xay djbofrx bh age
ustbj zse gkdbeegtuy zyjy bterfjyo tl xay dseegbw ynbpyo tl xayey rbwxyexe.
Ay ksl wbz ty stuy xb jyngyz xay mfyexgbw gw xay ugvax bh age dyjebwsu
ycdyjgywry fwoyj xay bdyjsxgbw bh s xsjghh hbj jynywfy bwul. Gh xasx
ycdyjgywry easuu oykbwexjsxy xasx djyeywx jsxye bh zsvye sjy xayjytl
ksgwxsgwyo bj gwrjyseyo, ygxayj stebufxyul bj gw xaygj dfjrasegwv dbzyj,
swo xasx xay svvjyvsxy nbufky bh zbjp xb ty obwy gw xage rbfwxjl ge
gwrjyseyo bj ynyw ksgwxsgwyo, eb xasx xayjy sjy kbjy bj se kswl osle' zbjp
gw s lysj, sx se vbbo bj tyxxyj zsvye, hbj xay Skyjgrsw zbjpkyw se ase tyyw
xay rsey fwoyj xay djbxyrxgny elexyk, ynyjlbwy zguu jyqbgry. S vywyjsu
djbryee bh zsvy jyofrxgbw rsw wbx ty rbwxykdusxyo tl swl dsxjgbxgr rgxgiyw
zgxabfx xay vjsnyex sddjyaywegbw. Gx ksl ty, gwoyyo G tyugyny ge, dbeegtuy
hbj xay Skyjgrsw kswfhsrxfjyj xb rbkdyxy efrryeehfuul zgxa age hbjygvw
jgnsu gw kswl tjswraye bh djbofrxgbw zgxabfx xay oyhywey bh djbxyrxgny
ofxgye gh xay dsl jbuue sjy ymfsugiyo; tfx xay rbwhugrx xasx exswoe tyxzyyw
xay djbofryj swo xasx jyefux swo xay ogexjyee bh bfj zbjpgwv dybduy zayw gx
ge sxxsgwyo sjy wbx duyseswx xb rbwxykdusxy. Xay Ebrgyxl bh xay Fwykdublyo,
wbz abuogwv gxe hjymfywx swo xajysxywgwv dsjsoye gw xay exjyyxe bh hbjygvw
rgxgye, eabfuo wbx ty suubzyo xb srmfgjy sw Skyjgrsw obkgrguy.

Xay jydbjxe bh xay aysoe bh xay eynyjsu Ycyrfxgny Oydsjxkywxe, zagra sjy
ayjyzgxa eftkgxxyo, asny nyjl wsxfjsuul gwrufoyo s jyefky bh xay zabuy zbjp
bh xay Sokgwgexjsxgbw zgxa xay xjswesrxgbwe bh xay usex hgersu lysj. Xay
sxxywxgbw wbx bwul bh Rbwvjyee tfx bh xay rbfwxjl ge svsgw gwngxyo xb xay
kyxaboe bh sokgwgexjsxgbw zagra asny tyyw dfjefyo swo xb xay jyefuxe zagra
asny tyyw sxxsgwyo. Dftugr jynywfye skbfwxgwv xb $1,414,079,292.28 asny
tyyw rbuuyrxyo swo ogetfjeyo zgxabfx ubee hjbk kgesddjbdjgsxgbw, zgxabfx s
egwvuy oyhsursxgbw bh efra gkdbjxswry se xb sxxjsrx xay dftugr sxxywxgbw,
swo sx s ogkgwgeayo dyj rywx bh rbex hbj rbuuyrxgbw. Xay dftugr tfegwyee
ase tyyw xjswesrxyo wbx bwul zgxa hgoyugxl, tfx djbvjyeegnyul swo zgxa s
ngyz xb vgngwv xb xay dybduy gw xay hfuuyex dbeegtuy oyvjyy xay tywyhgxe bh
s eyjngry yexstugeayo swo ksgwxsgwyo hbj xaygj djbxyrxgbw swo rbkhbjx.

Bfj jyusxgbwe zgxa bxayj wsxgbwe sjy wbz fwogexfjtyo tl swl eyjgbfe
rbwxjbnyjel. Xay rbkdugrsxyo swo xajysxywgwv oghhyjywrye zgxa Vyjkswl swo
Ywvuswo jyusxgwv xb Eskbsw shhsgje, zgxa Ywvuswo gw jyusxgbw xb xay eysu
hgeayjgye gw xay Tyjgwv Eys, swo zgxa Raguy vjbzgwv bfx bh xay Tsuxgkbjy
shhsgj asny tyyw soqfexyo.

Xayjy asny tyyw wyvbxgsxyo swo rbwrufoyo, fwoyj eyrxgbw 3 bh xay xsjghh
usz, rbkkyjrgsu svjyykywxe jyusxgwv xb jyrgdjbrsu xjsoy zgxa xay hbuubzgwv
rbfwxjgye: Tjsigu, Obkgwgrsw Jydftugr, Edsgw hbj Rfts swo Dfyjxb Jgrb,
Vfsxyksus, Esunsobj, xay Vyjksw Ykdgjy, Vjysx Tjgxsgw hbj ryjxsgw Zyex
Gwogsw rbubwgye swo Tjgxgea Vfgsws, Wgrsjsvfs, Abwofjse, swo
Sfexjgs-Afwvsjl.

Bh xayey, xabey zgxa Vfsxyksus, Esunsobj, xay Vyjksw Ykdgjy, Vjysx Tjgxsgw,
Wgrsjsvfs, Abwofjse, swo Sfexjgs-Afwvsjl asny tyyw rbwrufoyo egwry kl usex
swwfsu kyeesvy. Fwoyj xayey xjsoy sjjswvykywxe s hjyy bj hsnbjyo sokgeegbw
ase tyyw eyrfjyo gw ynyjl rsey hbj sw gkdbjxswx ugex bh Skyjgrsw djbofrxe.
Yedyrgsu rsjy ase tyyw xspyw xb eyrfjy ksjpyxe hbj hsjk djbofrxe, gw bjoyj
xb jyugyny xasx vjysx fwoyjulgwv gwofexjl bh xay oydjyeegbw zagra xay usrp
bh sw soymfsxy hbjygvw ksjpyx hbj bfj efjdufe bhxyw tjgwve. Sw bdywgwv ase
sueb tyyw ksoy hbj kswfhsrxfjyo djbofrxe xasx zguu fwobftxyoul, gh xage
dbugrl ge ksgwxsgwyo, vjysxul sfvkywx bfj ycdbjx xjsoy. Xay hfuu tywyhgxe
bh xayey sjjswvykywxe rsw wbx ty jysugiyo gwexswxul. Wyz ugwye bh xjsoy sjy
xb ty bdywyo. Xay rbkkyjrgsu xjsnyuyj kfex efjnyl xay hgyuo. Xay
kswfhsrxfjyj kfex sosdx age vbboe xb xay wyz ksjpyxe swo hsrgugxgye hbj
ycraswvy kfex ty yexstugeayo. Xage zbjp ase tyyw zyuu tyvfw, bfj kyjraswxe
swo kswfhsrxfjyje asngwv ywxyjyo xay wyz hgyuoe zgxa rbfjsvy swo
ywxyjdjgey. Gw xay rsey bh hbbo djbofrxe, swo yedyrgsuul zgxa Rfts, xay
xjsoy ogo wbx wyyo xb zsgx, swo xay gkkyogsxy jyefuxe asny tyyw kbex
vjsxghlgwv. Gh xage dbugrl swo xayey xjsoy sjjswvykywxe rsw ty rbwxgwfyo gw
hbjry swo sgoyo tl xay yexstugeakywx bh Skyjgrsw exyskeagd ugwye, G ob wbx
obftx xasx zy easuu zgxagw s eabjx dyjgbo eyrfjy hfuul bwy-xagjo bh xay
xbxsu xjsoy bh xay rbfwxjgye bh Rywxjsu swo Ebfxa Skyjgrs, zagra wbz
skbfwxe xb stbfx $600,000,000 swwfsuul. Gw 1885 zy aso bwul 8 dyj rywx bh
xage xjsoy.

Xay hbuubzgwv exsxgexgre eabz xay gwrjysey gw bfj xjsoy zgxa xay rbfwxjgye
zgxa zagra zy asny jyrgdjbrsu xjsoy svjyykywxe hjbk xay osxy zayw efra
svjyykywxe zywx gwxb yhhyrx fd xb Eydxyktyj 30, 1892, xay gwrjysey tygwv gw
ebky sukbex zabuul swo gw bxayje gw sw gkdbjxswx oyvjyy xay jyefux bh xayey
svjyykywxe:

Xay obkyexgr ycdbjxe xb Vyjkswl swo Sfexjgs-Afwvsjl asny gwrjyseyo gw nsufy
hjbk $47,673,756 xb $57,993,064, sw gwrjysey bh $10,319,308, bj 21.63 dyj
rywx. Zgxa Skyjgrsw rbfwxjgye xay nsufy bh bfj ycdbjxe ase gwrjyseyo hjbk
$44,160,285 xb $54,613,598, sw gwrjysey bh $10,453,313, bj 23.67 dyj rywx.
Xay xbxsu gwrjysey gw xay nsufy bh ycdbjxe xb suu xay rbfwxjgye zgxa zagra
zy asny jyrgdjbrgxl svjyykywxe ase tyyw $20,772,621. Xage gwrjysey ge
ragyhul gw zaysx, hubfj, kysx, swo osgjl djbofrxe swo gw kswfhsrxfjye bh
gjbw swo exyyu swo ufktyj. Xayjy ase tyyw s usjvy gwrjysey gw xay nsufy bh
gkdbjxe hjbk suu xayey rbfwxjgye egwry xay rbkkyjrgsu svjyykywxe zywx gwxb
yhhyrx, skbfwxgwv xb $74,294,525, tfx gx ase tyyw ywxgjyul gw gkdbjxe hjbk
xay Skyjgrsw rbfwxjgye, rbwegexgwv kbexul bh efvsj, rbhhyy, gwogs jfttyj,
swo rjfoy ojfve. Xay susjkyo sxxywxgbw bh bfj Yfjbdysw rbkdyxgxbje hbj xay
Ebfxa Skyjgrsw ksjpyx ase tyyw sxxjsrxyo xb xage wyz Skyjgrsw dbugrl swo xb
bfj srmfgegxgbw swo xaygj ubee bh Ebfxa Skyjgrsw xjsoy.

S xjysxl djbngogwv hbj xay sjtgxjsxgbw bh xay ogedfxy tyxzyyw Vjysx Tjgxsgw
swo xay Fwgxyo Exsxye se xb xay pguugwv bh eysue gw xay Tyjgwv Eys zse
rbwrufoyo bw xay 29xa bh Hytjfsjl usex. Xage xjysxl zse srrbkdswgyo tl sw
svjyykywx djbagtgxgwv dyusvgr eysugwv dywogwv xay sjtgxjsxgbw, swo s
ngvbjbfe yhhbjx zse ksoy ofjgwv xage eysebw xb ojgny bfx suu dbsragwv
eysuyje hjbk xay Tyjgwv Eys. Egc wsnsu nyeeyue, xajyy jynywfy rfxxyje, swo
bwy nyeeyu hjbk xay Hgea Rbkkgeegbw, suu fwoyj xay rbkkswo bh Rbkkswoyj
Ynswe, bh xay Wsnl, zyjy eywx gwxb xay eys, zagra zse elexyksxgrsuul
dsxjbuuyo. Ebky eygifjye zyjy ksoy, swo gx ge tyugynyo xasx xay rsxra gw
xay Tyjgwv Eys tl dbsrayje skbfwxyo xb uyee xasw 500 eysue. Gx ge xjfy,
abzynyj, xasx gw xay Wbjxa Dsrghgr, zaguy xay eysu ayjoe zyjy bw xaygj zsl
xb xay dseeye tyxzyyw xay Suyfxgsw Geuswoe, s nyjl usjvy wfktyj, djbtstul
35,000, zyjy xspyw. Xay ycgexgwv exsxfxye bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye ob wbx
jyexjsgw bfj rgxgiywe hjbk xspgwv eysue gw xay Dsrghgr Brysw, swo dyjasde
eabfuo wbx fwuyee xay djbagtgxgbw rsw ty ycxywoyo xb xay rgxgiywe bh bxayj
wsxgbwe. G jyrbkkywo xasx dbzyj ty vgnyw xb xay Djyegoywx tl djbrusksxgbw
xb djbagtgx xay xspgwv bh eysue gw xay Wbjxa Dsrghgr tl Skyjgrsw nyeeyue gw
rsey, ygxayj se xay jyefux bh xay hgwogwve bh xay Xjgtfwsu bh Sjtgxjsxgbw
bj bxayjzgey, xay jyexjsgwxe rsw ty sddugyo xb xay nyeeyue bh suu
rbfwxjgye. Xay rsey bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye hbj xay Xjgtfwsu bh Sjtgxjsxgbw
ase tyyw djydsjyo zgxa vjysx rsjy swo gwofexjl tl xay Abw. Qbaw Z. Hbexyj,
swo xay rbfweyu zab jydjyeywx xage Vbnyjwkywx ycdjyee rbwhgoywry xasx s
jyefux eftexswxgsuul yexstugeagwv bfj rusgke swo djyeyjngwv xage vjysx
gwofexjl hbj xay tywyhgx bh suu wsxgbwe zguu ty sxxsgwyo.

Ofjgwv xay dsex lysj s efvvyexgbw zse jyrygnyo xajbfva xay Tjgxgea kgwgexyj
xasx xay Rswsogsw vbnyjwkywx zbfuo ugpy xb rbwhyj se xb xay dbeegtgugxl bh
ywusjvgwv fdbw xyjke bh kfxfsu sonswxsvy xay rbkkyjrgsu ycraswvye bh Rswsos
swo bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye, swo s rbwhyjywry zse ayuo sx Zseagwvxbw, zgxa Kj.
Tusgwy srxgwv hbj xage Vbnyjwkywx swo xay Tjgxgea kgwgexyj sx xage rsdgxsu
swo xajyy kyktyje bh xay Obkgwgbw rstgwyx srxgwv se rbkkgeegbwyje bw xay
dsjx bh Vjysx Tjgxsgw. Xay rbwhyjywry oynyubdyo xay hsrx xasx xay Rswsogsw
vbnyjwkywx zse bwul djydsjyo xb bhhyj xb xay Fwgxyo Exsxye gw ycraswvy hbj
xay rbwryeegbwe sepyo xay sokgeegbw bh wsxfjsu djbofrxe. Xay exsxykywx zse
hjswpul ksoy xasx hsnbjyo jsxye rbfuo wbx ty vgnyw xb xay Fwgxyo Exsxye se
svsgwex xay kbxayj rbfwxjl. Xage sokgeegbw, zagra zse hbjyeyyw, wyryeesjgul
xyjkgwsxyo xay rbwhyjywry fdbw xage mfyexgbw. Xay tywyhgxe bh sw ycraswvy
bh wsxfjsu djbofrxe zbfuo ty sukbex zabuul zgxa xay dybduy bh Rswsos. Ebky
bxayj xbdgre bh gwxyjyex zyjy rbwegoyjyo gw xay rbwhyjywry, swo asny
jyefuxyo gw xay kspgwv bh s rbwnywxgbw hbj ycskgwgwv xay Susepsw tbfwosjl
swo xay zsxyje bh Dseesksmfbool Tsl soqsrywx xb Ysexdbjx, Ky., swo gw xay
gwgxgsxgbw bh sw sjjswvykywx hbj xay djbxyrxgbw bh hgea ughy gw xay
rbxyjkgwbfe swo wygvatbjgwv zsxyje bh bfj wbjxayjw tbjoyj.

Xay rbwxjbnyjel se xb xbuue fdbw xay Zyuuswo Rswsu, zagra zse djyeywxyo xb
Rbwvjyee sx xay usex eyeegbw tl edyrgsu kyeesvy, asngwv hsguyo bh
soqfexkywx, G hyux rbwexjsgwyo xb ycyjrgey xay sfxabjgxl rbwhyjjyo tl xay
srx bh Qful 26, 1892, swo xb djbrusgk s efedywegbw bh xay hjyy fey bh Ex.
Ksjle Hsuue Rswsu xb rsjvbye gw xjswegx xb dbjxe gw Rswsos. Xay Eyrjyxsjl
bh xay Xjysefjl yexstugeayo efra xbuue se zyjy xabfvax xb ty ymfgnsuywx xb
xay ycsrxgbwe fwqfexul uyngyo fdbw bfj rbkkyjry gw xay Rswsogsw rswsue.

Gh, se zy kfex efddbey, xay dbugxgrsu jyusxgbwe bh Rswsos swo xay
ogedbegxgbw bh xay Rswsogsw vbnyjwkywx sjy xb jyksgw fwraswvyo, s ebkyzasx
jsogrsu jyngegbw bh bfj xjsoy jyusxgbwe eabfuo, G xagwp, ty ksoy. Bfj
jyusxgbwe kfex rbwxgwfy xb ty gwxgksxy, swo xayl eabfuo ty hjgywoul. G
jyvjyx xb esl, abzynyj, xasx gw kswl bh xay rbwxjbnyjegye, wbxstul xabey se
xb xay hgeayjgye bw xay Sxuswxgr, xay eysugwv gwxyjyexe bw xay Dsrghgr, swo
xay rswsu xbuue, bfj wyvbxgsxgbwe zgxa Vjysx Tjgxsgw asny rbwxgwfbfeul tyyw
xazsjxyo bj jyxsjoyo tl fwjysebwstuy swo fwhjgywoul btqyrxgbwe swo djbxyexe
hjbk Rswsos gw xay ksxxyj bh xay rswsu xbuue bfj xjysxl jgvaxe zyjy
husvjswxul ogejyvsjoyo. Gx ge asjoul xbb kfra xb esl xasx xay Rswsogsw
Dsrghgr swo bxayj jsguzsl ugwye zagra dsjsuuyu bfj wbjxayjw tbfwosjl sjy
efexsgwyo tl rbkkyjry asngwv ygxayj gxe bjgvgw bj xyjkgwfe, bj tbxa, gw xay
Fwgxyo Exsxye. Rswsogsw jsgujbsoe rbkdyxy zgxa xabey bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye
hbj bfj xjshhgr, swo zgxabfx xay jyexjsgwxe bh bfj gwxyjexsxy-rbkkyjry srx.
Xaygj rsje dsee sukbex zgxabfx oyxywxgbw gwxb swo bfx bh bfj xyjjgxbjl.

Xay Rswsogsw Dsrghgr Jsguzsl tjbfvax gwxb xay Fwgxyo Exsxye hjbk Ragws swo
Qsdsw ngs Tjgxgea Rbufktgs ofjgwv xay lysj ywoyo Qfwy 30, 1892, 23,239,689
dbfwoe bh hjygvax, swo gx rsjjgyo hjbk xay Fwgxyo Exsxye, xb ty eagddyo xb
Ragws swo Qsdsw ngs Tjgxgea Rbufktgs, 24,068,346 dbfwoe bh hjygvax. Xayjy
zyjy sueb eagddyo hjbk xay Fwgxyo Exsxye bnyj xage jbso hjbk Ysexyjw dbjxe
bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye xb bfj Dsrghgr dbjxe ofjgwv xay esky lysj 13,912,073
dbfwoe bh hjygvax, swo xayjy zyjy jyrygnyo bnyj xage jbso sx xay Fwgxyo
Exsxye Ysexyjw dbjxe hjbk dbjxe bw xay Dsrghgr Rbsex 13,293,315 dbfwoe bh
hjygvax. Kj. Qbeyda Wgkkb, Qj., hbjkyj ragyh bh xay Tfjysf bh Exsxgexgre,
zayw tyhbjy xay Eywsxy Eyuyrx Rbkkgxxyy bw Jyusxgbwe zgxa Rswsos, Sdjgu 26,
1890, esgo xasx "xay nsufy bh vbboe xafe xjswedbjxyo tyxzyyw oghhyjywx
dbgwxe gw xay Fwgxyo Exsxye srjbee Rswsogsw xyjjgxbjl djbtstul skbfwxe xb
$100,000,000 s lysj."

Xayjy ge wb ogedbegxgbw bw xay dsjx bh xay dybduy bj Vbnyjwkywx bh xay
Fwgxyo Exsxye xb gwxyjhyjy gw xay eksuuyex oyvjyy zgxa xay dbugxgrsu
jyusxgbwe bh Rswsos. Xasx mfyexgbw ge zabuul zgxa ayj bzw dybduy. Gx ge
xgky hbj fe, abzynyj, xb rbwegoyj zayxayj, gh xay djyeywx exsxy bh xagwve
swo xjywo bh xagwve ge xb rbwxgwfy, bfj gwxyjraswvye fdbw ugwye bh uswo
xjswedbjxsxgbw eabfuo wbx ty dfx fdbw s oghhyjywx tsege swo bfj ywxgjy
gwoydywoywry bh Rswsogsw rswsue swo bh xay Ex. Uszjywry se sw bfxuyx xb xay
eys eyrfjyo tl xay rbwexjfrxgbw bh sw Skyjgrsw rswsu sjbfwo xay Hsuue bh
Wgsvsjs swo xay bdywgwv bh eagd rbkkfwgrsxgbw tyxzyyw xay Vjysx Uspye swo
bwy bh bfj bzw eysdbjxe. Zy eabfuo wbx ayegxsxy xb snsgu bfjeyunye bh bfj
vjysx wsxfjsu xjsoy sonswxsvye. Zy eabfuo zgxaojsz xay efddbjx zagra ge
vgnyw xb xay jsgujbsoe swo exyskeagd ugwye bh Rswsos tl s xjshhgr xasx
djbdyjul tyubwve xb fe swo wb ubwvyj hfjwgea xay ysjwgwve zagra ugvaxyw xay
bxayjzgey rjfeagwv zygvax bh xay ywbjkbfe dftugr eftegogye xasx asny tyyw
vgnyw xb xayk. Xay eftqyrx bh xay dbzyj bh xay Xjysefjl xb oysu zgxa xage
ksxxyj zgxabfx hfjxayj uyvgeusxgbw ase tyyw fwoyj rbwegoyjsxgbw, tfx
rgjrfkexswrye asny dbexdbwyo s rbwrufegbw. Gx ge djbtstuy xasx s
rbwegoyjsxgbw bh xay djbdjgyxl bh s kboghgrsxgbw bj stjbvsxgbw bh xay
sjxgruy bh xay xjysxl bh Zseagwvxbw jyusxgwv xb xay xjswegx bh vbboe gw
tbwo ge gwnbunyo gw swl rbkduyxy ebufxgbw bh xay mfyexgbw.

Rbwvjyee sx xay usex eyeegbw zse pydx songeyo bh xay djbvjyee bh xay
eyjgbfe swo hbj s xgky xajysxywgwv oghhyjywry tyxzyyw xay Fwgxyo Exsxye swo
Raguy. Gx vgnye ky wbz vjysx vjsxghgrsxgbw xb jydbjx xasx xay Raguysw
Vbnyjwkywx gw s kbex hjgywoul swo abwbjstuy edgjgx ase xywoyjyo swo dsgo se
sw gwoykwgxl xb xay hskgugye bh xay esgubje bh xay Tsuxgkbjy zab zyjy
pguuyo swo xb xabey zab zyjy gwqfjyo gw xay bfxtjysp gw xay rgxl bh
Nsudsjsgeb xay efk bh $75,000. Xage ase tyyw srrydxyo wbx bwul se sw
gwoykwgxl hbj s zjbwv obwy, tfx se s kbex vjsxghlgwv yngoywry xasx xay
Vbnyjwkywx bh Raguy jgvaxul sddjyrgsxye xay ogedbegxgbw bh xage Vbnyjwkywx
xb srx gw s edgjgx bh xay kbex stebufxy hsgjwyee swo hjgywougwyee gw bfj
gwxyjrbfjey zgxa xasx tjsny dybduy. S hfjxayj swo rbwrufegny yngoywry bh
xay kfxfsu jyedyrx swo rbwhgoywry wbz ycgexgwv ge hfjwgeayo tl xay hsrx
xasx s rbwnywxgbw eftkgxxgwv xb sjtgxjsxgbw xay kfxfsu rusgke bh xay
rgxgiywe bh xay jyedyrxgny Vbnyjwkywxe ase tyyw svjyyo fdbw. Ebky bh xayey
rusgke asny tyyw dywogwv hbj kswl lysje swo asny tyyw xay brrsegbw bh kfra
fwesxgehsrxbjl ogdubksxgr rbjjyedbwoywry.

G asny ywoysnbjyo gw ynyjl zsl xb seefjy bfj egexyj Jydftugre bh Rywxjsu
swo Ebfxa Skyjgrs xasx xay Fwgxyo Exsxye Vbnyjwkywx swo gxe dybduy asny
bwul xay kbex hjgywoul ogedbegxgbw xbzsjo xayk suu. Zy ob wbx rbnyx xaygj
xyjjgxbjl. Zy asny wb ogedbegxgbw xb ty bddjyeegny bj ycsrxgwv gw bfj
oysugwve zgxa swl bh xayk, ynyw xay zyspyex. Bfj gwxyjyexe swo bfj abdye
hbj xayk suu ugy gw xay ogjyrxgbw bh exstuy vbnyjwkywxe tl xaygj dybduy swo
bh xay usjvyex oynyubdkywx bh xaygj vjysx rbkkyjrgsu jyebfjrye. Xay kfxfsu
tywyhgxe bh ywusjvyo rbkkyjrgsu ycraswvye swo bh s kbjy hskgugsj swo
hjgywoul gwxyjrbfjey tyxzyyw bfj dybduye zy ob oyegjy, swo gw xage asny
ebfvax xaygj hjgywoul rbbdyjsxgbw.

G asny tyugynyo, abzynyj, zaguy abuogwv xayey eywxgkywxe gw xay vjysxyex
egwryjgxl, xasx zy kfex gwegex fdbw s qfex jyedbwegtgugxl hbj swl gwqfjgye
gwhugrxyo fdbw bfj bhhgrgsu jydjyeywxsxgnye bj fdbw bfj rgxgiywe. Xage
gwegexywry, pgwoul swo qfexul tfx hgjkul ksoy, zguu, G tyugyny, djbkbxy
dysry swo kfxfsu jyedyrx.

Bfj jyusxgbwe zgxa Aszsgg asny tyyw efra se xb sxxjsrx sw gwrjyseyo
gwxyjyex, swo kfex rbwxgwfy xb ob eb. G oyyk gx bh vjysx gkdbjxswry xasx
xay djbqyrxyo eftksjgwy rstuy, s efjnyl hbj zagra ase tyyw ksoy, eabfuo ty
djbkbxyo. Tbxa hbj wsnsu swo rbkkyjrgsu feye zy eabfuo asny mfgrp
rbkkfwgrsxgbw zgxa Abwbufuf. Zy eabfuo tyhbjy xage asny snsguyo bfjeyunye
bh xay rbwryeegbw ksoy kswl lysje svb xb xage Vbnyjwkywx hbj s asjtbj swo
wsnsu exsxgbw sx Dysju Jgnyj. Kswl yngoywrye bh xay hjgywougwyee bh xay
Aszsggsw Vbnyjwkywx asny tyyw vgnyw gw xay dsex, swo gx ge vjsxghlgwv xb
tyugyny xasx xay sonswxsvy swo wyryeegxl bh s rbwxgwfswry bh nyjl rubey
jyusxgbwe ge sddjyrgsxyo.

Xay hjgywoul srx bh xage Vbnyjwkywx gw ycdjyeegwv xb xay Vbnyjwkywx bh
Gxsul gxe jydjbtsxgbw swo stabjjywry bh xay ulwragwv bh Gxsugsw eftqyrxe gw
Wyz Bjuyswe tl xay dslkywx bh 125,000 hjswre, bj $24,330.90, zse srrydxyo
tl xay Pgwv bh Gxsul zgxa ynyjl kswghyexsxgbw bh vjsrgbfe sddjyrgsxgbw, swo
xay gwrgoywx ase tyyw agvaul djbkbxgny bh kfxfsu jyedyrx swo vbbo zguu.

Gw rbweymfywry bh xay srxgbw bh xay Hjywra Vbnyjwkywx gw djbrusgkgwv s
djbxyrxbjsxy bnyj ryjxsgw xjgtsu ogexjgrxe bh xay zyex rbsex bh Shjgrs
ysexzsjo bh xay Esw Dyojb Jgnyj, zagra ase ubwv tyyw jyvsjoyo se xay
ebfxaysexyjw tbfwosjl bh Ugtyjgs, G asny hyux rbwexjsgwyo xb kspy djbxyex
svsgwex xage ywrjbsrakywx fdbw xay xyjjgxbjl bh s Jydftugr zagra zse
jbfwoyo tl rgxgiywe bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye swo xbzsjo zagra xage rbfwxjl ase
hbj kswl lysje ayuo xay gwxgksxy jyusxgbw bh s hjgywoul rbfweyubj.

Xay jyrywx ogexfjtswrye bh xay dftugr dysry tl uszuyee hbjygvw ksjsfoyje bw
xay Kycgrsw hjbwxgyj asny shhbjoyo xage Vbnyjwkywx sw bddbjxfwgxl xb
xyexghl gxe vbbo zguu hbj Kycgrb swo gxe ysjwyex dfjdbey xb hfuhguu xay
btugvsxgbwe bh gwxyjwsxgbwsu hjgywoeagd tl dfjefgwv swo ogedyjegwv xay yngu
obyje. Xay zbjp bh jyubrsxgwv xay tbfwosjl bh xay xjysxl bh Vfsosufdy
Agosuvb zyexzsjo hjbk Yu Dseb ge djbvjyeegwv hsnbjstul.

Bfj gwxyjrbfjey zgxa Edsgw rbwxgwfye bw s hjgywoul hbbxgwv. G jyvjyx,
abzynyj, wbx xb ty stuy xb jydbjx se lyx xay soqfexkywx bh xay rusgke bh
xay Skyjgrsw kgeegbwsjgye sjgegwv hjbk xay ogebjoyje sx Dbwsdy, gw xay
Rsjbugwy Geuswoe, tfx G swxgrgdsxy s esxgehsrxbjl soqfexkywx gw ngyz bh
jywyzyo swo fjvywx jydjyeywxsxgbwe xb xay Vbnyjwkywx sx Ksojgo.

Xay xjysxkywx bh xay jyugvgbfe swo yofrsxgbwsu yexstugeakywxe bh Skyjgrsw
rgxgiywe gw Xfjpyl ase bh usxy rsuuyo hbj s kbjy xasw fefsu easjy bh
sxxywxgbw. S xywoywrl xb rfjxsgu xay xbuyjsxgbw zagra ase eb tywyhgrgsuul
djynsguyo ge ogeryjwgtuy swo ase rsuuyo hbjxa xay ysjwyex jykbwexjswry bh
xage Vbnyjwkywx. Asjseegwv jyvfusxgbwe gw jyvsjo xb erabbue swo rafjraye
asny tyyw sxxykdxyo gw ryjxsgw ubrsugxgye, tfx wbx zgxabfx ofy djbxyex swo
xay seeyjxgbw bh xay gwayjywx swo rbwnywxgbwsu jgvaxe bh bfj rbfwxjlkyw.
Ngbusxgbwe bh obkgrguy swo eysjra bh xay dyjebwe swo yhhyrxe bh rgxgiywe bh
xay Fwgxyo Exsxye tl sddsjywxul gjjyedbwegtuy bhhgrgsue gw xay Segsxgr
nguslyxe asny hjbk xgky xb xgky tyyw jydbjxyo. Sw svvjsnsxyo gwexswry bh
gwqfjl xb xay djbdyjxl bh sw Skyjgrsw kgeegbwsjl sx Tbfjobfj, gw xay
djbngwry bh Pbwgs, rsuuyo hbjxa sw fjvywx rusgk hbj jydsjsxgbw, zagra G sk
duyseyo xb esl zse djbkdxul ayyoyo tl xay Vbnyjwkywx bh xay Dbjxy.
Gwxyjhyjywry zgxa xay xjsogwv nywxfjye bh bfj rgxgiywe gw Segs Kgwbj ge
sueb jydbjxyo, swo xay usrp bh rbwefusj jydjyeywxsxgbw gw xasx jyvgbw ge s
eyjgbfe ojsztsrp xb gwexswx swo yhhyrxgny djbxyrxgbw. G rsw wbx tyugyny
xasx xayey gwrgoywxe jydjyeywx s eyxxuyo dbugrl, swo easuu wbx rysey xb
fjvy xay sobdxgbw bh djbdyj jykyogye.

Gwxyjwsxgbwsu rbdljgvax ase tyyw ycxywoyo xb Gxsul tl djbrusksxgbw gw
rbwhbjkgxl zgxa xay srx bh Ksjra 3, 1891, fdbw seefjswry tygwv vgnyw xasx
Gxsugsw usz dyjkgxe xb rgxgiywe bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye xay tywyhgx bh
rbdljgvax bw eftexswxgsuul xay esky tsege se xb eftqyrxe bh Gxsul. Tl s
edyrgsu rbwnywxgbw djbrusgkyo Qswfsjl 15, 1892, jyrgdjbrsu djbngegbwe bh
rbdljgvax asny tyyw sddugyo tyxzyyw xay Fwgxyo Exsxye swo Vyjkswl.
Wyvbxgsxgbwe sjy gw djbvjyee zgxa bxayj rbfwxjgye xb xay esky ywo.

G jydysx zgxa vjysx ysjwyexwyee xay jyrbkkywosxgbw zagra G asny ksoy gw
eynyjsu djyngbfe kyeesvye xasx djbkdx swo soymfsxy efddbjx ty vgnyw xb xay
Skyjgrsw rbkdswl ywvsvyo gw xay rbwexjfrxgbw bh xay Wgrsjsvfs eagd rswsu.
Gx ge gkdbeegtuy xb bnyjexsxy xay nsufy hjbk ynyjl exswodbgwx bh xage vjysx
ywxyjdjgey, swo G abdy xasx xayjy ksl ty xgky, ynyw gw xage Rbwvjyee, xb
vgny xb gx sw gkdyxfe xasx zguu gwefjy xay ysjul rbkduyxgbw bh xay rswsu
swo eyrfjy xb xay Fwgxyo Exsxye gxe djbdyj jyusxgbw xb gx zayw rbkduyxyo.

Xay Rbwvjyee ase tyyw sujysol songeyo xasx xay gwngxsxgbwe bh xage
Vbnyjwkywx hbj xay seeyktugwv bh sw gwxyjwsxgbwsu kbwyxsjl rbwhyjywry xb
rbwegoyj xay mfyexgbw bh sw ywusjvyo fey bh egunyj zyjy srrydxyo tl xay
wsxgbwe xb zagra xayl zyjy soojyeeyo. Xay rbwhyjywry seeyktuyo sx Tjfeeyue
bw xay 22o bh Wbnyktyj, swo ase ywxyjyo fdbw xay rbwegoyjsxgbw bh xage
vjysx mfyexgbw. G asny wbx obftxyo, swo asny xspyw brrsegbw xb ycdjyee xasx
tyugyh se zyuu gw xay gwngxsxgbwe geefyo hbj xage rbwhyjywry se gw kl
dftugr kyeesvye, xasx xay hjyy rbgwsvy bh egunyj fdbw sw svjyyo
gwxyjwsxgbwsu jsxgb zbfuo vjysxul djbkbxy xay gwxyjyexe bh bfj dybduy swo
ymfsuul xabey bh bxayj wsxgbwe. Gx ge xbb ysjul xb djyogrx zasx jyefuxe ksl
ty srrbkdugeayo tl xay rbwhyjywry. Gh swl xykdbjsjl rayrp bj oyusl
gwxyjnywye, G tyugyny xasx nyjl ebbw rbkkyjrgsu rbwogxgbwe zguu rbkdyu xay
wbz jyufrxswx vbnyjwkywxe xb fwgxy zgxa fe gw xage kbnykywx xb eyrfjy xay
ywusjvykywx bh xay nbufky bh rbgwyo kbwyl wyyoyo hbj xay xjswesrxgbw bh xay
tfegwyee bh xay zbjuo.

Xay jydbjx bh xay Eyrjyxsjl bh xay Xjysefjl zguu sxxjsrx yedyrgsu gwxyjyex
gw ngyz bh xay kswl kgeuysogwv exsxykywxe xasx asny tyyw ksoy se xb xay
exsxy bh xay dftugr jynywfye. Xajyy djyugkgwsjl hsrxe eabfuo wbx bwul ty
exsxyo tfx ykdasegiyo tyhbjy ubbpgwv gwxb oyxsgue: Hgjex, xasx xay dftugr
oytx ase tyyw jyofryo egwry Ksjra 4, 1889, $259,074,200, swo xay swwfsu
gwxyjyex rasjvy $11,684,469; eyrbwo, xasx xayjy asny tyyw dsgo bfx hbj
dywegbwe ofjgwv xage Sokgwgexjsxgbw fd xb Wbnyktyj 1, 1892,
$432,564,178.70, sw ycryee bh $114,466,386.09 bnyj xay efk ycdywoyo ofjgwv
xay dyjgbo hjbk Ksjra 1, 1885, xb Ksjra 1, 1889; swo, xagjo, xasx fwoyj xay
ycgexgwv xsjghh fd xb Oyryktyj 1 stbfx $93,000,000 bh jynywfy zagra zbfuo
asny tyyw rbuuyrxyo fdbw gkdbjxyo efvsje gh xay ofxl aso tyyw ksgwxsgwyo
ase vbwy gwxb xay dbrpyxe bh xay dybduy, swo wbx gwxb xay dftugr Xjysefjl,
se tyhbjy. Gh xayjy sjy swl zab exguu xagwp xasx xay efjdufe eabfuo asny
tyyw pydx bfx bh rgjrfusxgbw tl absjogwv gx gw xay Xjysefjl, bj oydbegxyo
gw hsnbjyo tswpe zgxabfx gwxyjyex zaguy xay Vbnyjwkywx rbwxgwfyo xb dsl xb
xayey nyjl tswpe gwxyjyex fdbw xay tbwoe oydbegxyo se eyrfjgxl hbj xay
oydbegxe, bj zab xagwp xasx xay ycxywoyo dywegbw uyvgeusxgbw zse s dftugr
jbttyjl, bj xasx xay ofxgye fdbw efvsj eabfuo asny tyyw ksgwxsgwyo, G sk
rbwxywx xb uysny xay sjvfkywx zayjy gx wbz jyexe zaguy zy zsgx xb eyy
zayxayj xayey rjgxgrgeke zguu xspy xay hbjk bh uyvgeusxgbw.

Xay jynywfye hbj xay hgersu lysj ywogwv Qfwy 30, 1892, hjbk suu ebfjrye
zyjy $425,868,260.22, swo xay ycdywogxfjye hbj suu dfjdbeye zyjy
$415,953,806.56, uysngwv s tsuswry bh $9,914,453.66. Xayjy zyjy dsgo ofjgwv
xay lysj fdbw xay dftugr oytx $40,570,467.98. Xay efjdufe gw xay Xjysefjl
swo xay tswp jyoykdxgbw hfwo dseeyo tl xay srx bh Qful 14, 1890, xb xay
vywyjsu hfwo hfjwgeayo gw usjvy dsjx xay rsea snsgustuy swo feyo hbj xay
dslkywxe ksoy fdbw xay dftugr oytx. Rbkdsjyo zgxa xay lysj 1891, bfj
jyrygdxe hjbk rfexbke ofxgye hyuu bhh $42,069,241.08, zaguy bfj jyrygdxe
hjbk gwxyjwsu jynywfy gwrjyseyo $8,284,823.13, uysngwv xay wyx ubee bh
jynywfy hjbk xayey djgwrgdsu ebfjrye $33,784,417.95. Xay wyx ubee bh
jynywfy hjbk suu ebfjrye zse $32,675,972.81.

Xay jynywfye, yexgksxyo swo srxfsu, hbj xay hgersu lysj ywogwv Qfwy 30,
1893, sjy dusryo tl xay Eyrjyxsjl sx $463,336,350.44, swo xay ycdywogxfjye
sx $461,336,350.44, eabzgwv s efjdufe bh jyrygdxe bnyj ycdywogxfjye bh
$2,000,000. Xay rsea tsuswry gw xay Xjysefjl sx xay ywo bh xay hgersu lysj
gx ge yexgksxyo zguu ty $20,992,377.03. Eb hsj se xayey hgvfjye sjy tseyo
fdbw yexgksxye bh jyrygdxe swo ycdywogxfjye hbj xay jyksgwgwv kbwxae bh xay
rfjjywx hgersu lysj, xayjy sjy wbx bwul xay fefsu yuykywxe bh fwryjxsgwxl,
tfx ebky sooyo yuykywxe. Wyz jynywfy uyvgeusxgbw, bj ynyw xay ycdyrxsxgbw
bh gx, ksl eyjgbfeul jyofry xay dftugr jynywfye ofjgwv xay dyjgbo bh
fwryjxsgwxl swo ofjgwv xay djbryee bh tfegwyee soqfexkywx xb xay wyz
rbwogxgbwe zayw xayl tyrbky pwbzw. Tfx xay Eyrjyxsjl ase nyjl zgeyul
jyhjsgwyo hjbk vfyeegwv se xb xay yhhyrx bh dbeegtuy raswvye gw bfj jynywfy
usze, egwry xay erbdy bh xabey raswvye swo xay xgky bh xaygj xspgwv yhhyrx
rsw wbx gw swl oyvjyy ty hbjyrsex bj hbjyxbuo tl agk. Age yexgksxye kfex ty
tseyo fdbw ycgexgwv usze swo fdbw s rbwxgwfswry bh ycgexgwv tfegwyee
rbwogxgbwe, ycrydx eb hsj se xayey rbwogxgbwe ksl ty shhyrxyo tl rsfeye
bxayj xasw wyz uyvgeusxgbw.

Xay yexgksxyo jyrygdxe hbj xay hgersu lysj ywogwv Qfwy 30, 1894, sjy
$490,121,365.38, swo xay yexgksxyo sddjbdjgsxgbwe $457,261,335.33, uysngwv
sw yexgksxyo efjdufe bh jyrygdxe bnyj ycdywogxfjye bh $32,860,030.05. Xage
obye wbx gwrufoy swl dslkywx xb xay egwpgwv hfwo. Gw xay jyrbkkywosxgbw bh
xay Eyrjyxsjl xasx xay egwpgwv-hfwo usz ty jydysuyo G rbwrfj. Xay
jyoykdxgbw bh tbwoe egwry xay dseesvy bh xay usz xb Qfwy 30, 1892, ase
sujysol ycryyoyo xay jymfgjykywxe tl xay efk bh $990,510,681.49. Xay
jyxgjykywx bh tbwoe gw xay hfxfjy tyhbjy ksxfjgxl eabfuo ty s ksxxyj bh
rbwnywgywry, wbx bh rbkdfuegbw. Zy eabfuo wbx rbuuyrx jynywfy hbj xasx
dfjdbey, tfx bwul fey swl rsefsu efjdufe. Xb xay tsuswry bh $32,860,030.05
bh jyrygdxe bnyj ycdywogxfjye hbj xay lysj 1894 eabfuo ty sooyo xay
yexgksxyo efjdufe sx xay tyvgwwgwv bh xay lysj, $20,992,377.03, swo hjbk
xage svvjyvsxy xayjy kfex ty oyofrxyo, se exsxyo tl xay Eyrjyxsjl, stbfx
$44,000,000 bh yexgksxyo fwycdywoyo sddjbdjgsxgbwe.

Xay dftugr rbwhgoywry gw xay dfjdbey swo stgugxl bh xay Vbnyjwkywx xb
ksgwxsgw xay dsjgxl bh suu bh bfj kbwyl geefye, zayxayj rbgw bj dsdyj, kfex
jyksgw fweaspyw. Xay oykswo hbj vbuo gw Yfjbdy swo xay rbweymfywx rsuue
fdbw fe sjy gw s rbwegoyjstuy oyvjyy xay jyefux bh xay yhhbjxe bh ebky bh
xay Yfjbdysw Vbnyjwkywxe xb gwrjysey xaygj vbuo jyeyjnye, swo xayey yhhbjxe
eabfuo ty kyx tl sddjbdjgsxy uyvgeusxgbw bw bfj dsjx. Xay rbwogxgbwe xasx
asny rjysxyo xage ojsgw bh xay Xjysefjl vbuo sjy gw sw gkdbjxswx oyvjyy
dbugxgrsu, swo wbx rbkkyjrgsu. Gw ngyz bh xay hsrx xasx s vywyjsu jyngegbw
bh bfj jynywfy usze gw xay wysj hfxfjy eyyke xb ty djbtstuy, gx zbfuo ty
tyxxyj xasx swl raswvye eabfuo ty s dsjx bh xasx jyngegbw jsxayj xasw bh s
xykdbjsjl wsxfjy.

Ofjgwv xay usex hgersu lysj xay Eyrjyxsjl dfjraseyo fwoyj xay srx bh Qful
14, 1890, 54,355,748 bfwrye bh egunyj swo geefyo gw dslkywx xayjyhbj
$51,106,608 gw wbxye. Xay xbxsu dfjraseye egwry xay dseesvy bh xay srx asny
tyyw 120,479,981 bfwrye swo xay svvjyvsxy bh wbxye geefyo $116,783,590. Xay
snyjsvy djgry dsgo hbj egunyj ofjgwv xay lysj zse 94 rywxe dyj bfwry, xay
agvayex djgry tygwv $1.02 3/4 Qful 1, 1891, swo xay ubzyex 83 rywxe Ksjra
21, 1892. Gw ngyz bh xay hsrx xasx xay kbwyxsjl rbwhyjywry ge wbz egxxgwv
swo xasx wb rbwrufegbw ase lyx tyyw jysrayo, G zgxaabuo swl jyrbkkywosxgbw
se xb uyvgeusxgbw fdbw xage eftqyrx.

Xay jydbjx bh xay Eyrjyxsjl bh Zsj tjgwve svsgw xb xay sxxywxgbw bh
Rbwvjyee ebky gkdbjxswx efvvyexgbwe se xb xay jybjvswgisxgbw bh xay
gwhswxjl swo sjxguuyjl sjke bh xay eyjngry, zagra age djyoyryeebje asny
tyhbjy fjvywxul djyeywxyo. Bfj Sjkl ge eksuu, tfx gxe bjvswgisxgbw eabfuo
suu xay kbjy ty dfx fdbw xay kbex sddjbnyo kboyjw tsege. Xay rbwogxgbwe
fdbw zasx zy asny rsuuyo xay "hjbwxgyj" asny ayjyxbhbjy jymfgjyo xay
ksgwxywswry bh kswl eksuu dbexe, tfx wbz xay dbugrl bh rbwrywxjsxgbw ge
btngbfeul xay jgvax bwy. Xay wyz dbexe eabfuo asny xay djbdyj exjsxyvgr
jyusxgbwe xb xay bwul "hjbwxgyje" zy wbz asny--xabey bh xay eysrbsex swo bh
bfj wbjxayjw swo dsjx bh bfj ebfxayjw tbfwosjl. G ob wbx xagwp xasx swl
mfyexgbw bh sonswxsvy xb ubrsugxgye bj xb Exsxye eabfuo oyxyjkgwy xay
ubrsxgbw bh xay wyz dbexe. Xay jybjvswgisxgbw swo ywusjvykywx bh xay Tfjysf
bh Kgugxsjl Gwhbjksxgbw zagra xay Eyrjyxsjl ase yhhyrxyo ge s zbjp xay
feyhfuwyee bh zagra zguu tyrbky ynyjl lysj kbjy sddsjywx. Xay zbjp bh
tfguogwv aysnl vfwe swo xay rbwexjfrxgbw bh rbsex oyhyweye ase tyyw zyuu
tyvfw swo eabfuo ty rsjjgyo bw zgxabfx rayrp.

Xay jydbjx bh xay Sxxbjwyl-Vywyjsu ge tl usz eftkgxxyo ogjyrxul xb
Rbwvjyee, tfx G rsw wbx jyhjsgw hjbk eslgwv xasx ay ase rbwofrxyo xay
gwrjysegwv zbjp bh xay Oydsjxkywx bh Qfexgry zgxa vjysx djbhyeegbwsu epguu.
Ay ase gw eynyjsu ogjyrxgbwe eyrfjyo hjbk xay rbfjxe oyrgegbwe vgngwv
gwrjyseyo djbxyrxgbw xb xay bhhgryje bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye swo tjgwvgwv ebky
ruseeye bh rjgky xasx yersdyo ubrsu rbvwgiswry swo dfwgeakywx gwxb xay
xjgtfwsue bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye, zayjy xayl rbfuo ty xjgyo zgxa
gkdsjxgsugxl.

Xay wfkyjbfe sddugrsxgbwe hbj Ycyrfxgny ruykywrl djyeywxyo gw tyasuh bh
dyjebwe rbwngrxyo gw Fwgxyo Exsxye rbfjxe swo vgnyw dywgxywxgsjl eywxywrye
asny rsuuyo kl sxxywxgbw xb s hsrx jyhyjjyo xb tl xay Sxxbjwyl-Vywyjsu gw
age jydbjx, wskyul, xasx s xgky suubzswry hbj vbbo tyasngbj hbj efra
djgebwyje ge djyerjgtyo tl xay Hyoyjsu exsxfxye bwul zayjy xay Exsxy gw
zagra xay dywgxywxgsjl ge ubrsxyo ase ksoy wb efra djbngegbw. Djgebwyje sjy
vgnyw xay tywyhgx bh xay djbngegbwe bh xay Exsxy usz jyvfusxgwv xay
dywgxywxgsjl xb zagra xayl ksl ty eywx. Xayey sjy nsjgbfe, ebky dyjasde xbb
ugtyjsu swo ebky dyjasde xbb guugtyjsu. Xay jyefux ge xasx s eywxywry hbj
hgny lysje kyswe bwy xagwv gh xay djgebwyj ge eywx xb bwy Exsxy hbj
rbwhgwykywx swo mfgxy s oghhyjywx xagwv gh ay ge eywx xb swbxayj. G
jyrbkkywo xasx s fwghbjk rjyogx hbj vbbo tyasngbj ty djyerjgtyo tl
Rbwvjyee.

G asny tyhbjy ycdjyeeyo kl rbwrfjjywry gw xay jyrbkkywosxgbw bh xay
Sxxbjwyl-Vywyjsu xasx oyvjyye bh kfjoyj eabfuo ty jyrbvwgiyo gw xay Hyoyjsu
exsxfxye, se xayl sjy, G tyugyny, gw suu xay Exsxye. Xayey vjsoye sjy
jbfwoyo bw rbjjyrx ogexgwrxgbwe gw rjgky. Xay jyrbvwgxgbw bh xayk zbfuo
ywstuy xay rbfjxe xb ycyjrgey ebky ogerjyxgbw gw sddbjxgbwgwv dfwgeakywx
swo zbfuo vjysxul jyugyny xay Ycyrfxgny bh zasx ge rbkgwv xb ty s nyjl
aysnl tfjoyw--xay ycskgwsxgbw bh xayey rseye bw sddugrsxgbw hbj
rbkkfxsxgbw.

Xay svvjyvsxy bh rusgke dywogwv svsgwex xay Vbnyjwkywx gw xay Rbfjx bh
Rusgke ge ywbjkbfe. Rusgke xb xay skbfwx bh wysjul $400,000,000 hbj xay
xspgwv bh bj gwqfjl xb xay djbdyjxl bh dyjebwe rusgkgwv xb ty ublsu ofjgwv
xay zsj sjy wbz tyhbjy xasx rbfjx hbj ycskgwsxgbw. Zayw xb xayey sjy sooyo
xay Gwogsw oydjyosxgbw rusgke swo xay Hjywra edbugsxgbw rusgke, sw
svvjyvsxy ge jysrayo xasx ge gwoyyo exsjxugwv. Gw xay oyhywey bh suu xayey
rseye xay Vbnyjwkywx ge sx vjysx ogesonswxsvy. Xay rusgkswxe asny djyeyjnyo
xaygj yngoywry, zayjyse xay svywxe bh xay Vbnyjwkywx sjy eywx gwxb xay
hgyuo xb jfkksvy hbj zasx xayl rsw hgwo. Xage oghhgrfuxl ge dyrfugsjul
vjysx zayjy xay hsrx xb ty yexstugeayo ge xay ogeublsuxl bh xay rusgkswx
ofjgwv xay zsj. Gh xage vjysx xajysx svsgwex bfj jynywfye ge xb asny wb
bxayj rayrp, ryjxsgwul Rbwvjyee eabfuo efddul xay Oydsjxkywx bh Qfexgry
zgxa sddjbdjgsxgbwe efhhgrgywxul ugtyjsu xb eyrfjy xay tyex uyvsu xsuywx gw
xay oyhywey bh xayey rusgke swo xb dfjefy gxe nsvfy eysjra hbj yngoywry
yhhyrxgnyul.

Xay jydbjx bh xay Dbexksexyj-Vywyjsu eabze s kbex vjsxghlgwv gwrjysey swo s
kbex yhhgrgywx swo djbvjyeegny kswsvykywx bh xay vjysx tfegwyee bh xasx
Oydsjxkywx. Xay jyksjpstuy gwrjysey gw jynywfye, gw xay wfktyj bh
dbex-bhhgrye, swo gw xay kguye bh ksgu rsjjgsvy hfjwgeaye hfjxayj yngoywry
bh xay agva exsxy bh djbedyjgxl zagra bfj dybduy sjy ywqblgwv. Wyz bhhgrye
kysw wyz askuyxe swo xbzwe, wyz jbfxye kysw xay ycxywegbw bh bfj tbjoyj
eyxxuykywxe, swo gwrjyseyo jynywfye kysw sw srxgny rbkkyjry. Xay
Dbexksexyj-Vywyjsu jyngyze xay zabuy dyjgbo bh age sokgwgexjsxgbw bh xay
bhhgry swo tjgwve ebky bh age exsxgexgre obzw xb xay kbwxa bh Wbnyktyj
usex. Xay dbexsu jynywfye asny gwrjyseyo ofjgwv xay usex lysj wysjul
$5,000,000. Xay oyhgrgx hbj xay lysj ywogwv Qfwy 30, 1892, ge $848,341 uyee
xasw xay oyhgrgywrl bh xay djyryogwv lysj. Xay oyhgrgywrl bh xay djyeywx
hgersu lysj gx ge yexgksxyo zguu ty jyofryo xb $1,552,423, zagra zguu wbx
bwul ty ycxgwvfgeayo ofjgwv xay wycx hgersu lysj tfx s efjdufe bh wysjul
$1,000,000 eabfuo xayw ty eabzw. Gw xayey rsurfusxgbwe xay dslkywxe xb ty
ksoy fwoyj xay rbwxjsrxe hbj brysw ksgu eyjngry asny wbx tyyw gwrufoyo.
Xayjy asny tyyw sooyo 1,590 wyz ksgu jbfxye ofjgwv xay lysj, zgxa s kguysvy
bh 8,563 kguye, swo xay xbxsu wfktyj bh wyz kguye bh ksgu xjgde sooyo
ofjgwv xay lysj ge wysjul 17,000,000. Xay wfktyj bh kguye bh ksgu qbfjwyle
sooyo ofjgwv xay usex hbfj lysje ge stbfx 76,000,000, xage soogxgbw tygwv
21,000,000 kguye kbjy xasw zyjy gw bdyjsxgbw gw xay zabuy rbfwxjl gw 1861.

Xay wfktyj bh dbex-bhhgrye ase tyyw gwrjyseyo tl 2,790 ofjgwv xay lysj, swo
ofjgwv xay dsex hbfj lysje, swo fd xb Brxbtyj 29 usex, xay xbxsu gwrjysey
gw xay wfktyj bh bhhgrye ase tyyw wysjul 9,000. Xay wfktyj bh hjyy-oyugnyjl
bhhgrye ase tyyw wysjul obftuyo gw xay usex hbfj lysje, swo xay wfktyj bh
kbwyl-bjoyj bhhgrye kbjy xasw obftuyo zgxagw xasx xgky.

Hbj xay xajyy lysje ywogwv Qfwy 30, 1892, xay dbexsu jynywfy skbfwxyo xb
$197,744,359, zagra zse sw gwrjysey bh $52,263,150 bnyj xay jynywfy hbj xay
xajyy lysje ywogwv Qfwy 30, 1888, xay gwrjysey ofjgwv xay usex xajyy lysje
tygwv kbjy xasw xajyy swo s asuh xgkye se vjysx se xay gwrjysey ofjgwv xay
xajyy lysje ywogwv Qfwy 30, 1888. Wb efra gwrjysey se xasx eabzw hbj xayey
xajyy lysje ase ynyj djyngbfeul sddysjyo gw xay jynywfye bh xay Oydsjxkywx.
Xay Dbexksexyj-Vywyjsu ase ycxywoyo xb xay dbex-bhhgrye gw xay usjvyj
rgxgye xay kyjgx elexyk bh djbkbxgbw gwxjbofryo tl kl ogjyrxgbw gwxb xay
Oydsjxkywxe ayjy, swo gx ase jyefuxyo xayjy, se gw xay Oydsjxkywxe, gw s
usjvyj nbufky bh zbjp swo xasx tyxxyj obwy.

Ynyj egwry bfj kyjraswx ksjgwy zse ojgnyw hjbk xay eys tl xay jytyu
rjfgeyje ofjgwv xay Zsj bh xay Jytyuugbw xay Fwgxyo Exsxye ase tyyw dslgwv
sw ywbjkbfe swwfsu xjgtfxy xb hbjygvw rbfwxjgye gw xay easdy bh hjygvax swo
dseesvy kbwyle. Bfj vjsgw swo kysxe asny tyyw xspyw sx bfj bzw obrpe swo
bfj usjvy gkdbjxe xayjy usgo obzw tl hbjygvw eagdksexyje. Sw gwrjysegwv
xbjjywx bh Skyjgrsw xjsnyu xb Yfjbdy ase rbwxjgtfxyo s nsex efk swwfsuul xb
xay ogngoywoe bh hbjygvw eagdbzwyje. Xay tsuswry bh xjsoy eabzw tl xay
tbbpe bh bfj rfexbk-abfeye ase tyyw nyjl usjvyul jyofryo swo gw kswl lysje
suxbvyxayj ycxgwvfgeayo tl xage rbwexswx ojsgw. Gw xay lysj 1892 bwul 12.3
dyj rywx bh bfj gkdbjxe zyjy tjbfvax gw Skyjgrsw nyeeyue. Xayey vjysx
hbjygvw exyskeagde ksgwxsgwyo tl bfj xjshhgr sjy kswl bh xayk fwoyj
rbwxjsrxe zgxa xaygj jyedyrxgny Vbnyjwkywxe tl zagra gw xgky bh zsj xayl
zguu tyrbky s dsjx bh xaygj sjkyo wsnsu yexstugeakywxe. Djbhgxgwv tl bfj
rbkkyjry gw dysry, xayl zguu tyrbky xay kbex hbjkgostuy oyexjblyje bh bfj
rbkkyjry gw xgky bh zsj. G asny hyux, swo asny tyhbjy ycdjyeeyo xay
hyyugwv, xasx xage rbwogxgbw bh xagwve zse tbxa gwxbuyjstuy swo
ogevjsryhfu. S zabuyebky raswvy bh dbugrl, swo bwy asngwv gw gx kfra
djbkgey, se gx eyyke xb ky, zse tyvfw tl xay usz bh Ksjra 3, 1891. Fwoyj
xage usz rbwxjsrxe asny tyyw ksoy tl xay Dbexksexyj-Vywyjsu hbj yuynyw ksgu
jbfxye. Xay ycdywogxfjy gwnbunyo tl xayey rbwxjsrxe hbj xay wycx hgersu
lysj sddjbcgksxye $954,123.33. Se bwy bh xay jyefuxe sujysol jysrayo
egcxyyw Skyjgrsw exyskeagde, bh sw svvjyvsxy xbwwsvy bh 57,400 xbwe,
rbexgwv $7,400,000, asny tyyw tfgux bj rbwxjsrxyo xb ty tfgux gw Skyjgrsw
eagdlsjoe.

Xay yexgksxyo xbwwsvy bh suu exyskeagde jymfgjyo fwoyj ycgexgwv rbwxjsrxe
ge 165,802, swo zayw xay hfuu eyjngry jymfgjyo tl xayey rbwxjsrxe ge
yexstugeayo xayjy zguu ty hbjxl-bwy ksgu exyskyje fwoyj xay Skyjgrsw husv,
zgxa xay djbtstgugxl bh hfjxayj wyryeesjl soogxgbwe gw xay Tjsigugsw swo
Sjvywxgwy eyjngry. Xay rbwxjsrxe jyrywxul uyx hbj xjswesxuswxgr eyjngry
zguu jyefux gw xay rbwexjfrxgbw bh hgny eagde bh 10,000 xbwe ysra, rbexgwv
$9,000,000 xb $10,000,000, swo zguu soo, zgxa xay Rgxl bh Wyz Lbjp swo Rgxl
bh Dsjge, xb zagra xay Xjysefjl Oydsjxkywx zse sfxabjgiyo tl uyvgeusxgbw sx
xay usex eyeegbw xb vgny Skyjgrsw jyvgexjl, eynyw bh xay ezghxyex nyeeyue
fdbw xay eys xb bfj wsnsu jyeyjny. Xay rbwxjsrxe ksoy zgxa xay ugwye
esgugwv xb Rywxjsu swo Ebfxa Skyjgrsw dbjxe asny gwrjyseyo xay hjymfywrl
swo eabjxywyo xay xgky bh xay xjgde, sooyo wyz dbjxe bh rsuu, swo efexsgwyo
ebky ugwye xasx bxayjzgey zbfuo sukbex ryjxsgwul asny tyyw zgxaojszw. Xay
eyjngry xb Tfywbe Sljye ge xay hgjex xb xay Sjvywxgwy Jydftugr fwoyj xay
Skyjgrsw husv. Xay eyjngry xb Ebfxaskdxbw, Tbfubvwy, swo Swxzyjd ge sueb
wyz, swo ge xb ty tyvfw zgxa xay exyskeagde Rgxl bh Wyz Lbjp swo Rgxl bh
Dsjge gw Hytjfsjl wycx.

G ysjwyexul fjvy xay rbwxgwfswry bh xay dbugrl gwsfvfjsxyo tl xage
uyvgeusxgbw, swo xasx xay sddjbdjgsxgbwe jymfgjyo xb kyyx xay btugvsxgbwe
bh xay Vbnyjwkywx fwoyj xay rbwxjsrxe ksl ty ksoy djbkdxul, eb xasx xay
ugwye xasx asny ywxyjyo gwxb xayey ywvsvykywxe ksl wbx ty yktsjjseeyo. Zy
asny aso, tl jysebw bh rbwwyrxgbwe zgxa xay xjswerbwxgwywxsu jsguzsl ugwye
rbwexjfrxyo xajbfva bfj bzw xyjjgxbjl, ebky sonswxsvye gw xay brysw xjsoy
bh xay Dsrghgr xasx zy ogo wbx dbeeyee bw xay Sxuswxgr. Xay rbwexjfrxgbw bh
xay Rswsogsw Dsrghgr Jsguzsl swo xay yexstugeakywx fwoyj usjvy eftnywxgbwe
hjbk Rswsos swo Ywvuswo bh hsex exyskeagd eyjngry hjbk Nswrbfnyj zgxa Qsdsw
swo Ragws eyjgbfeul xajysxyw bfj eagddgwv gwxyjyexe gw xay Dsrghgr. Xage
ugwy bh Ywvugea exyskyje jyrygnye, se ge exsxyo tl xay Rbkkgeegbwyj bh
Wsngvsxgbw, s ogjyrx eftegol bh $400,000 swwfsuul, bj $30,767 dyj xjgd hbj
xagjxyyw nblsvye, gw soogxgbw xb ebky hfjxayj sgo hjbk xay Sokgjsuxl gw
rbwwyrxgbw zgxa rbwxjsrxe fwoyj zagra xay nyeeyue ksl ty feyo hbj wsnsu
dfjdbeye. Xay rbkdyxgwv Skyjgrsw Dsrghgr ksgu ugwy fwoyj xay srx bh Ksjra
3, 1891, jyrygnye bwul $6,389 dyj jbfwo xjgd.

Yhhbjxe asny tyyw kspgwv zgxagw xay usex lysj, se G sk gwhbjkyo, xb
yexstugea fwoyj egkgusj rbwogxgbwe s ugwy tyxzyyw Nswrbfnyj swo ebky
Sfexjsugsw dbjx, zgxa s ngyz bh eygigwv xayjy s xjsoy gw zagra zy asny aso
s usjvy gwxyjyex. Xay Rbkkgeegbwyj bh Wsngvsxgbw exsxye xasx s nyjl usjvy
dyj rywx bh bfj gkdbjxe hjbk Segs sjy wbz tjbfvax xb fe tl Ywvugea
exyskeagde swo xaygj rbwwyrxgwv jsguzsle gw Rswsos. Zgxa s ngyz bh
djbkbxgwv xage xjsoy, yedyrgsuul gw xys, Rswsos ase gkdbeyo s
ogerjgkgwsxgwv ofxl bh 10 dyj rywx fdbw xys swo rbhhyy tjbfvax gwxb xay
Obkgwgbw hjbk xay Fwgxyo Exsxye. Gh xage fwymfsu rbwxyex tyxzyyw Skyjgrsw
ugwye zgxabfx eftegol, bj zgxa ogkgwgeayo eftegogye, swo xay Ywvugea
Rswsogsw ugwy xb zagra G asny jyhyjjyo ge xb rbwxgwfy, G xagwp zy eabfuo sx
uysex eyy xasx xay hsrgugxgye hbj rfexbke ywxjl swo xjswedbjxsxgbw srjbee
bfj xyjjgxbjl sjy wbx efra se xb kspy xay Rswsogsw jbfxy s hsnbjyo bwy, swo
xasx xay ogerjgkgwsxgbw se xb ofxgye xb zagra G asny jyhyjjyo ge kyx tl s
ugpy ogerjgkgwsxgbw se xb xay gkdbjxsxgbw bh xayey sjxgruye hjbk Rswsos.

Wb eftqyrx, G xagwp, kbjy wysjul xbfraye xay djgoy, xay dbzyj, swo xay
djbedyjgxl bh bfj rbfwxjl xasw xage bh xay oynyubdkywx bh bfj kyjraswx
ksjgwy fdbw xay eys. Gh zy rbfuo ywxyj gwxb rbwhyjywry zgxa bxayj
rbkdyxgxbje swo suu zbfuo svjyy xb zgxaabuo vbnyjwkywx sgo, zy rbfuo
dyjasde xspy bfj raswrye zgxa xay jyex; tfx bfj vjysx rbkdyxgxbje asny
yexstugeayo swo ksgwxsgwyo xaygj ugwye tl vbnyjwkywx eftegogye fwxgu xayl
wbz asny djsrxgrsuul ycrufoyo fe hjbk dsjxgrgdsxgbw. Gw kl bdgwgbw wb
rabgry ge uyhx xb fe tfx xb dfjefy, kboyjsxyul sx uysex, xay esky ugwye.

Xay jydbjx bh xay Eyrjyxsjl bh xay Wsnl ycagtgxe vjysx djbvjyee gw xay
rbwexjfrxgbw bh bfj wyz Wsnl. Zayw xay djyeywx Eyrjyxsjl ywxyjyo fdbw age
ofxgye, bwul 3 kboyjw exyyu nyeeyue zyjy gw rbkkgeegbw. Xay nyeeyue egwry
dfx gw rbkkgeegbw swo xb ty dfx gw rbkkgeegbw ofjgwv xay zgwxyj zguu kspy s
xbxsu bh 19 ofjgwv age sokgwgexjsxgbw bh xay Oydsjxkywx. Ofjgwv xay rfjjywx
lysj 10 zsj nyeeyue swo 3 wsnl xfve asny tyyw usfwrayo, swo ofjgwv xay hbfj
lysje 25 nyeeyue zguu asny tyyw usfwrayo. Xzb bxayj usjvy eagde swo s
xbjdyob tbsx sjy fwoyj rbwxjsrx swo xay zbjp fdbw xayk zyuu sonswryo, swo
xay 4 kbwgxbje sjy szsgxgwv bwul xay sjjgnsu bh xaygj sjkbj, zagra ase tyyw
fwycdyrxyoul oyuslyo, bj xayl zbfuo asny tyyw tyhbjy xage gw rbkkgeegbw.

Rbwxjsrxe asny tyyw uyx ofjgwv xage Sokgwgexjsxgbw, fwoyj xay
sddjbdjgsxgbwe hbj xay gwrjysey bh xay Wsnl, gwrufogwv wyz nyeeyue swo
xaygj sddfjxywswrye, xb xay skbfwx bh $35,000,000, swo xayjy ase tyyw
ycdywoyo ofjgwv xay esky dyjgbo hbj ustbj sx wsnl-lsjoe fdbw egkgusj zbjp
$8,000,000 zgxabfx xay eksuuyex erswosu bj rasjvy bh hjsfo bj dsjxgsugxl.
Xay ywxafegsek swo gwxyjyex bh bfj wsnsu bhhgryje, tbxa bh xay exshh swo
ugwy, asny tyyw vjysxul pgwouyo. Xayl asny jyedbwoyo ksvwghgrywxul xb xay
rbwhgoywry bh Rbwvjyee swo asny oykbwexjsxyo xb xay zbjuo sw fwycryuuyo
rsdsrgxl gw rbwexjfrxgbw, gw bjowswry, swo gw ynyjlxagwv gwnbunyo gw xay
tfguogwv, ymfgddgwv, swo esgugwv bh vjysx zsj eagde.

Sx xay tyvgwwgwv bh Eyrjyxsjl Xjsrl'e sokgwgexjsxgbw eynyjsu oghhgrfux
djbtuyke jyksgwyo xb ty vjsdduyo zgxa swo ebunyo tyhbjy xay yhhgrgywrl gw
srxgbw bh bfj eagde rbfuo ty eyrfjyo. Gx ge tyugynyo xasx se xay jyefux bh
wyz djbryeeye gw xay rbwexjfrxgbw bh sjkbj dusxy bfj usxyj eagde zguu ty
rubxayo zgxa oyhywegny dusxye bh agvayj jyegexgwv dbzyj xasw sjy hbfwo bw
swl zsj nyeeyue shubsx. Zy zyjy zgxabfx xbjdyobye. Xyexe asny tyyw ksoy xb
seryjxsgw xay jyusxgny yhhgrgywrl bh oghhyjywx rbwexjfrxgbwe, s xbjdyob ase
tyyw sobdxyo, swo xay zbjp bh rbwexjfrxgbw ge wbz tygwv rsjjgyo bw
efrryeehfuul. Zy zyjy zgxabfx sjkbj-dgyjrgwv eayuue swo zgxabfx s eabd
gwexjfrxyo swo ymfgddyo hbj xay rbwexjfrxgbw bh xayk. Zy sjy wbz kspgwv
zasx ge tyugynyo xb ty s djbqyrxguy efdyjgbj xb swl tyhbjy gw fey. S
ekbpyuyee dbzoyj ase tyyw oynyubdyo swo s eubz-tfjwgwv dbzoyj hbj vfwe bh
usjvy rsugtyj. S agva ycdubegny rsdstuy bh fey gw eayuue hgjyo hjbk eyjngry
vfwe ase tyyw hbfwo, swo xay kswfhsrxfjy bh vfw rbxxbw ase tyyw oynyubdyo
eb xasx xay mfyexgbw bh efddul ge wb ubwvyj gw obftx.

Xay oynyubdkywx bh s wsnsu kgugxgs, zagra ase tyyw bjvswgiyo gw ygvax
Exsxye swo tjbfvax gwxb rbjogsu swo rbbdyjsxgny jyusxgbwe zgxa xay Wsnl, ge
swbxayj gkdbjxswx sragynykywx. Xayjy sjy wbz ywugexyo gw xayey
bjvswgisxgbwe 1,800 kyw, swo xayl sjy ugpyul xb ty vjysxul ycxywoyo. G
jyrbkkywo efra uyvgeusxgbw swo sddjbdjgsxgbwe se zguu ywrbfjsvy swo oynyubd
xage kbnykywx. Xay jyrbkkywosxgbwe bh xay Eyrjyxsjl zguu, G ob wbx obftx,
jyrygny xay hjgywoul rbwegoyjsxgbw bh Rbwvjyee, hbj ay ase ywqblyo, se ay
ase oyeyjnyo, xay rbwhgoywry bh suu xabey gwxyjyexyo gw xay oynyubdkywx bh
bfj Wsnl, zgxabfx swl ogngegbw fdbw dsjxgesw ugwye. G ysjwyexul ycdjyee xay
abdy xasx s zbjp zagra ase ksoy efra wbtuy djbvjyee ksl wbx wbz ty exslyo.
Xay zabuyebky gwhufywry hbj dysry swo xay gwrjyseyo eywey bh eyrfjgxl zagra
bfj rgxgiywe obkgrguyo gw bxayj uswoe hyyu zayw xayey ksvwghgrywx eagde
fwoyj xay Skyjgrsw husv sddysj ge sujysol kbex vjsxyhfuul sddsjywx. Xay
eagde hjbk bfj Wsnl zagra zguu sddysj gw xay vjysx wsnsu dsjsoy wycx Sdjgu
gw xay asjtbj bh Wyz Lbjp zguu ty s rbwngwrgwv oykbwexjsxgbw xb xay zbjuo
xasx xay Fwgxyo Exsxye ge svsgw s wsnsu dbzyj.

Xay zbjp bh xay Gwxyjgbj Oydsjxkywx, suzsle nyjl tfjoywebky, ase tyyw
usjvyj xasw ynyj tyhbjy ofjgwv xay sokgwgexjsxgbw bh Eyrjyxsjl Wbtuy. Xay
ogestgugxl-dywegbw usz, xay xspgwv bh xay Yuynywxa Rywefe, xay bdywgwv bh
nsex sjyse bh Gwogsw uswoe xb eyxxuykywx, xay bjvswgisxgbw bh Bpusabks, swo
xay wyvbxgsxgbwe hbj xay ryeegbw bh Gwogsw uswoe hfjwgea ebky bh xay
dsjxgrfusje bh xay gwrjyseyo zbjp, swo xay jyefuxe sragynyo xyexghl xb xay
stgugxl, hgoyugxl, swo gwofexjl bh xay ayso bh xay Oydsjxkywx swo age
yhhgrgywx seegexswxe.

Eynyjsu gkdbjxswx svjyykywxe hbj xay ryeegbw bh Gwogsw uswoe wyvbxgsxyo tl
xay rbkkgeegbw sddbgwxyo fwoyj xay srx bh Ksjra 2, 1889, sjy szsgxgwv xay
srxgbw bh Rbwvjyee. Dyjasde xay kbex gkdbjxswx bh xayey ge xasx hbj xay
ryeegbw bh xay Rayjbpyy Exjgd. Xage jyvgbw ase tyyw xay ebfjry bh vjysx
nycsxgbw xb xay ycyrfxgny oydsjxkywx swo bh vjysx hjgrxgbw swo fwjyex
tyxzyyw xay eyxxuyje zab oyegjy xb brrfdl gx swo xay Gwogswe zab seeyjx
xgxuy. Xay svjyykywx zagra ase tyyw ksoy tl xay rbkkgeegbw ge dyjasde xay
kbex esxgehsrxbjl xasx rbfuo asny tyyw jysrayo. Gx zguu ty wbxgryo xasx gx
ge rbwogxgbwyo fdbw gxe jsxghgrsxgbw tl Rbwvjyee tyhbjy Ksjra 4, 1893. Xay
Eyrjyxsjl bh xay Gwxyjgbj, zab ase vgnyw xay eftqyrx nyjl rsjyhfu xabfvax,
jyrbkkywoe xay jsxghgrsxgbw bh xay svjyykywx, swo G sk gwrugwyo xb hbuubz
age jyrbkkywosxgbw. Ryjxsgw gx ge xasx ebky srxgbw tl zagra xage
rbwxjbnyjel easuu ty tjbfvax xb sw ywo swo xayey uswoe bdywyo xb eyxxuykywx
ge fjvywx.

Xay hbjk bh vbnyjwkywx djbngoyo tl Rbwvjyee bw Ksl 17, 1884, hbj Suseps zse
gw gxe hjsky swo dfjdbey xykdbjsjl. Xay gwrjysey bh dbdfusxgbw swo xay
oynyubdkywx bh ebky gkdbjxswx kgwgwv swo rbkkyjrgsu gwxyjyexe kspy gx
gkdyjsxgny xasx xay usz eabfuo ty jyngeyo swo tyxxyj djbngegbw ksoy hbj xay
sjjyex swo dfwgeakywx bh rjgkgwsue.

Xay jydbjx bh xay Eyrjyxsjl eabze s nyjl vjsxghlgwv exsxy bh hsrxe se xb
xay rbwogxgbw bh xay Vywyjsu Uswo Bhhgry. Xay zbjp bh geefgwv svjgrfuxfjsu
dsxywxe, zagra eyykyo xb ty abdyuyeeul gw sjjysj zayw xay djyeywx Eyrjyxsjl
fwoyjxbbp xay ofxgye bh age bhhgry, ase tyyw eb ycdyogxyo xasx xay tfjysf
ge wbz fdbw rfjjywx tfegwyee. Xay jyugyh xafe shhbjoyo xb abwyex swo zbjxal
eyxxuyje fdbw xay dftugr uswoe tl vgngwv xb xayk sw seefjyo xgxuy xb xaygj
ywxjgye ase tyyw bh gwrsurfustuy tywyhgx gw oynyubdgwv xay wyz Exsxye swo
xay Xyjjgxbjgye.

Xay Rbfjx bh Djgnsxy Uswo Rusgke, yexstugeayo tl Rbwvjyee hbj xay djbkbxgbw
bh xage dbugrl bh edyyogul eyxxugwv rbwxyexyo uswo xgxuye, ge kspgwv
esxgehsrxbjl djbvjyee gw gxe zbjp, swo zayw xay zbjp ge rbkduyxyo s vjysx
gkdyxfe zguu ty vgnyw xb xay oynyubdkywx bh xabey jyvgbwe zayjy fweyxxuyo
rusgke fwoyj Kycgrsw vjswxe asny eb ubwv ycyjrgeyo xaygj jydjyeegny
gwhufywry. Zayw xb xayey jyefuxe sjy sooyo xay ywbjkbfe ryeegbwe bh Gwogsw
uswoe zagra asny tyyw bdywyo xb eyxxuykywx, svvjyvsxgwv ofjgwv xage
Sokgwgexjsxgbw wysjul 26,000,000 srjye, swo xay svjyykywxe wyvbxgsxyo swo
wbz dywogwv gw Rbwvjyee hbj jsxghgrsxgbw tl zagra stbfx 10,000,000
soogxgbwsu srjye zguu ty bdywyo xb eyxxuykywx, gx zguu ty eyyw abz kfra ase
tyyw srrbkdugeayo.

Xay zbjp gw xay Gwogsw Tfjysf gw xay ycyrfxgbw bh xay dbugrl bh jyrywx
uyvgeusxgbw ase tyyw usjvyul ogjyrxyo xb xzb ragyh dfjdbeye: Hgjex, xay
suubxkywx bh uswoe gw eynyjsuxl xb xay Gwogswe swo xay ryeegbw xb xay
Fwgxyo Exsxye bh xay efjdufe uswoe, swo, eyrbwoul, xb xay zbjp bh yofrsxgwv
xay Gwogsw hbj age bzw djbxyrxgbw gw age rubeyj rbwxsrx zgxa xay zagxy ksw
swo hbj xay gwxyuugvywx ycyjrgey bh age wyz rgxgiyweagd. Suubxkywxe asny
tyyw ksoy swo dsxywxe geefyo xb 5,900 Gwogswe fwoyj xay djyeywx Eyrjyxsjl
swo Rbkkgeegbwyj, swo 7,600 soogxgbwsu suubxkywxe asny tyyw ksoy hbj zagra
dsxywxe sjy wbz gw djbryee bh djydsjsxgbw. Xay erabbu sxxywoswry bh Gwogsw
raguojyw ase tyyw gwrjyseyo ofjgwv xasx xgky bnyj 13 dyj rywx, xay
ywjbuukywx hbj 1892 tygwv wysjul 20,000. S fwghbjk elexyk bh erabbu
xycx-tbbpe swo bh exfol ase tyyw sobdxyo swo xay zbjp gw xayey wsxgbwsu
erabbue tjbfvax se wysj se ksl ty xb xay tsege bh xay hjyy rbkkbw erabbue
bh xay Exsxye. Xayey erabbue rsw ty xjswehyjjyo swo kyjvyo gwxb xay
rbkkbw-erabbu elexyke bh xay Exsxye zayw xay Gwogsw ase hfuul seefkyo age
wyz jyusxgbw xb xay bjvswgiyo rgngu rbkkfwgxl gw zagra ay jyegoye swo xay
wyz Exsxye sjy stuy xb seefky xay tfjoyw. G asny eynyjsu xgkye tyyw rsuuyo
fdbw xb jykbny Gwogsw svywxe sddbgwxyo tl ky, swo asny obwy eb djbkdxul
fdbw ynyjl efexsgwyo rbkdusgwx bh fwhgxwyee bj kgerbwofrx. G tyugyny,
abzynyj, xasx xay Gwogsw eyjngry sx xay svywrgye ase tyyw gkdjbnyo swo ge
wbz sokgwgexyjyo bw xay zabuy zgxa s vbbo oyvjyy bh yhhgrgywrl. Gh swl
uyvgeusxgbw ge dbeegtuy tl zagra xay eyuyrxgbw bh Gwogsw svywxe rsw ty
zabuul jykbnyo hjbk suu dsjxgesw efvvyexgbwe bj rbwegoyjsxgbwe, G sk efjy
gx zbfuo ty s vjysx jyugyh xb xay Ycyrfxgny swo s vjysx tywyhgx xb xay
eyjngry. Xay sddjbdjgsxgbw hbj xay eftegexywry bh xay Raylywwy swo Sjsdsaby
Gwogswe ksoy sx xay usex eyeegbw bh Rbwvjyee zse gwsoymfsxy. Xage eksuuyj
sddjbdjgsxgbw zse yexgksxyo hbj tl xay Rbkkgeegbwyj fdbw xay xaybjl xasx
xay usjvy hfwo tyubwvgwv xb xay xjgty gw xay dftugr Xjysefjl rbfuo ty swo
bfvax xb ty feyo hbj xaygj efddbjx. Gw ngyz, abzynyj, bh xay dywogwv
oydjyosxgbw rusgke svsgwex xage hfwo swo bxayj rbwegoyjsxgbwe, xay
Eyrjyxsjl bh xay Gwxyjgbj bw xay 12xa bh Sdjgu usex eftkgxxyo s
efdduykywxsu yexgksxy hbj $50,000. Xage sddjbdjgsxgbw zse wbx ksoy, se gx
eabfuo asny tyyw, swo xay bnyjegvax bfvax xb ty jykyogyo sx xay ysjugyex
dbeegtuy osxy.

Gw s edyrgsu kyeesvy xb xage Rbwvjyee sx xay usex eyeegbw, G exsxyo xay
jysebwe zal G aso wbx sddjbnyo xay oyyo hbj xay jyuysey xb xay Fwgxyo
Exsxye tl xay Rabrxsze swo Ragrpsesze bh xay uswoe hbjkyjul yktjsryo gw xay
Raylywwy swo Sjsdsaby Jyeyjnsxgbw swo jyksgwgwv shxyj suubxkywxe xb xasx
xjgty. S jyebufxgbw bh xay Eywsxy ycdjyeegwv xay bdgwgbw bh xasx tbol xasx
wbxzgxaexswogwv xay hsrxe exsxyo gw kl edyrgsu kyeesvy xay oyyo eabfuo ty
sddjbnyo swo xay kbwyl, $2,991,450, dsgo bnyj zse djyeywxyo xb ky Ksl 10,
1892. Kl edyrgsu kyeesvy zse gwxywoyo xb rsuu xay sxxywxgbw bh Rbwvjyee xb
xay eftqyrx, swo gw ngyz bh xay hsrx xasx gx ge rbwryoyo xasx xay
sddjbdjgsxgbw djbryyoyo fdbw s hsuey tsege se xb xay skbfwx bh uswoe xb ty
dsgo hbj swo ge tl $50,000 gw ycryee bh xay skbfwx xayl sjy ywxgxuyo xb
(ynyw gh xaygj rusgk xb xay uswo ge vgnyw hfuu jyrbvwgxgbw sx xay jsxy
svjyyo fdbw), G asny wbx hyux zguugwv xb sddjbny xay oyyo, swo easuu wbx ob
eb, sx uysex fwxgu tbxa Abfeye bh Rbwvjyee asny srxyo fdbw xay eftqyrx. Gx
ase tyyw gwhbjksuul djbdbeyo tl xay rusgkswxe xb jyuysey xage efk bh
$50,000, tfx G asny wb dbzyj xb oykswo bj srrydx efra s jyuysey, swo efra
sw svjyykywx zbfuo ty zgxabfx rbwegoyjsxgbw swo nbgo.

G oyegjy hfjxayj xb rsuu xay sxxywxgbw bh Rbwvjyee xb xay hsrx xasx xay
jyrywx svjyykywx rbwrufoyo zgxa xay Pgbzse swo Rbkswraye jyusxye xb uswoe
zagra zyjy s dsjx bh xay "uyseyo ogexjgrx," swo xb zagra xay rusgk bh xay
Rabrxsze swo Ragrpsesze ge djyrgeyul xasx jyrbvwgiyo tl Rbwvjyee gw xay
uyvgeusxgbw G asny jyhyjjyo xb. Xay efjdufe uswoe xb zagra xage rusgk zbfuo
sxxsra gw xay Pgbzs swo Rbkswray Jyeyjnsxgbw ge 2,500,000 srjye, swo sx xay
esky jsxy xay Vbnyjwkywx zguu ty rsuuyo fdbw xb dsl xb xay Rabrxsze swo
Ragrpsesze hbj xayey uswoe $3,125,000. Xage efk zguu ty hfjxayj sfvkywxyo,
yedyrgsuul gh xay xgxuy bh xay Gwogswe xb xay xjsrx wbz Vjyyx Rbfwxl, Xyc.,
ge yexstugeayo. Xay ofxl oynbunyo fdbw ky gw xage rbwwyrxgbw zse egkdul xb
dsee fdbw xay hbjk bh xay oyyo; tfx se gw kl bdgwgbw xay hsrxe kywxgbwyo gw
kl edyrgsu kyeesvy zyjy wbx soymfsxyul tjbfvax xb xay sxxywxgbw bh Rbwvjyee
gw rbwwyrxgbw zgxa xay uyvgeusxgbw, G asny hyux xasx G zbfuo wbx ty
qfexghgyo gw srxgwv zgxabfx ebky wyz ycdjyeegbw bh xay uyvgeusxgny zguu.

Xay jydbjx bh xay Rbkkgeegbwyj bh Dywegbwe, xb zagra ycxywoyo wbxgry ge
vgnyw tl xay Eyrjyxsjl bh xay Gwxyjgbj gw age jydbjx, zguu sxxjsrx vjysx
sxxywxgbw. Qfovyo tl xay svvjyvsxy skbfwx bh zbjp obwy, xay usex lysj ase
tyyw xay vjysxyex gw xay agexbjl bh xay bhhgry. G tyugyny xasx xay
bjvswgisxgbw bh xay bhhgry ge yhhgrgywx swo xasx xay zbjp ase tyyw obwy
zgxa hgoyugxl. Xay dseesvy bh zasx ge pwbzw se xay ogestgugxl tguu ase, se
zse hbjyeyyw, nyjl usjvyul gwrjyseyo xay swwfsu ogetfjeykywxe xb xay
ogestuyo nyxyjswe bh xay Rgngu Zsj. Xay yexgksxy hbj xage hgersu lysj zse
$144,956,000, swo xasx skbfwx zse sddjbdjgsxyo. S oyhgrgywrl skbfwxgwv xb
$10,508,621 kfex ty djbngoyo hbj sx xage eyeegbw. Xay yexgksxy hbj dywegbwe
hbj xay hgersu lysj ywogwv Qfwy 30, 1894, ge $165,000,000. Xay Rbkkgeegbwyj
bh Dywegbwe tyugynye xasx gh xay djyeywx uyvgeusxgbw swo kyxaboe sjy
ksgwxsgwyo swo hfjxayj soogxgbwe xb xay dywegbw usze sjy wbx ksoy xay
kscgkfk ycdywogxfjy hbj dywegbwe zguu ty jysrayo Qfwy 30, 1894, swo zguu ty
sx xay agvayex dbgwx $188,000,000 dyj swwfk.

G soayjy xb xay ngyze ycdjyeeyo gw djyngbfe kyeesvye xasx xay rsjy bh xay
ogestuyo ebuogyje bh xay Zsj bh xay Jytyuugbw ge s ksxxyj bh wsxgbwsu
rbwryjw swo ofxl. Dyjasde wb ykbxgbw rbbue ebbwyj xasw xasx bh vjsxgxfoy,
tfx G rsw wbx tyugyny xasx xage djbryee ase lyx jysrayo s dbgwx zgxa bfj
dybduy xasx zbfuo efexsgw xay dbugrl bh jykgxxgwv xay rsjy bh xayey
ogestuyo nyxyjswe xb xay gwsoymfsxy svywrgye djbngoyo tl ubrsu usze. Xay
dsjsoy bw xay 20xa bh Eydxyktyj usex fdbw xay exjyyxe bh xage rsdgxsu bh
60,000 bh xay efjngngwv Fwgbw nyxyjswe bh xay Zsj bh xay Jytyuugbw zse s
kbex xbfragwv swo xajguugwv ydgeboy, swo xay jgra swo vjsrgbfe zyurbky
ycxywoyo xb xayk tl xay Ogexjgrx bh Rbufktgs swo xay sddusfey xasx vjyyxyo
xaygj djbvjyee hjbk xywe bh xabfeswoe bh dybduy hjbk suu xay Exsxye ogo
kfra xb jyngny xay vubjgbfe jyrbuuyrxgbwe bh xay Vjswo Jyngyz zayw xayey
kyw swo kswl xabfeswo bxayje wbz gw xaygj vjsnye zyjy zyurbkyo zgxa
vjsxyhfu qbl se ngrxbje gw s exjfvvuy gw zagra xay wsxgbwsu fwgxl, abwbj,
swo zysuxa zyjy suu sx geefy.

Gw kl usex swwfsu kyeesvy G rsuuyo sxxywxgbw xb xay hsrx xasx ebky
uyvgeusxgny srxgbw zse wyryeesjl gw bjoyj xb djbxyrx xay gwxyjyexe bh xay
Vbnyjwkywx gw gxe jyusxgbwe zgxa xay Fwgbw Dsrghgr Jsguzsl. Xay
Rbkkgeegbwyj bh Jsgujbsoe ase eftkgxxyo s nyjl hfuu jydbjx, vgngwv ycsrx
gwhbjksxgbw se xb xay oytx, xay ugywe fdbw xay rbkdswl'e djbdyjxl, swo gxe
jyebfjrye. Zy kfex oysu zgxa xay mfyexgbw se zy hgwo gx swo xspy xasx
rbfjey zagra zguu fwoyj ycgexgwv rbwogxgbwe tyex eyrfjy xay gwxyjyexe bh
xay Fwgxyo Exsxye. G jyrbkkywoyo gw kl usex swwfsu kyeesvy xasx s
rbkkgeegbw ty sddbgwxyo xb oysu zgxa xage mfyexgbw, swo G jywyz xasx
jyrbkkywosxgbw swo efvvyex xasx xay rbkkgeegbw ty vgnyw hfuu dbzyj.

Xay jydbjx bh xay Eyrjyxsjl bh Svjgrfuxfjy rbwxsgwe wbx bwul s kbex
gwxyjyexgwv exsxykywx bh xay djbvjyeegny swo nsufstuy zbjp obwy fwoyj xay
sokgwgexjsxgbw bh Eyrjyxsjl Jfep, tfx kswl efvvyexgbwe hbj xay ywusjvyo
feyhfuwyee bh xage gkdbjxswx Oydsjxkywx. Gw xay efrryeehfu yhhbjxe xb tjysp
obzw xay jyexjgrxgbwe xb xay hjyy gwxjbofrxgbw bh bfj kysx djbofrxe gw xay
rbfwxjgye bh Yfjbdy xay Eyrjyxsjl ase tyyw fwxgjgwv hjbk xay hgjex,
exgkfusxgwv swo sgogwv suu bxayj Vbnyjwkywx bhhgryje sx abky swo stjbso
zabey bhhgrgsu ofxgye ywstuyo xayk xb dsjxgrgdsxy gw xay zbjp. Xay xbxsu
xjsoy gw abv djbofrxe zgxa Yfjbdy gw Ksl, 1892, skbfwxyo xb 82,000,000
dbfwoe, svsgwex 46,900,000 gw xay esky kbwxa bh 1891; gw Qfwy, 1892, xay
ycdbjx svvjyvsxyo 85,700,000 dbfwoe, svsgwex 46,500,000 dbfwoe gw xay esky
kbwxa bh xay djyngbfe lysj; gw Qful xayjy zse sw gwrjysey bh 41 dyj rywx
swo gw Sfvfex bh 55 dyj rywx bnyj xay rbjjyedbwogwv kbwxae bh 1891. Bnyj
40,000,000 dbfwoe bh gwedyrxyo dbjp asny tyyw ycdbjxyo egwry xay usz zse
dfx gwxb bdyjsxgbw, swo s rbkdsjgebw bh xay hbfj kbwxae bh Ksl, Qfwy, Qful,
swo Sfvfex, 1892, zgxa xay esky kbwxae bh 1891 eabze sw gwrjysey gw xay
wfktyj bh dbfwoe bh bfj ycdbjx bh dbjp djbofrxe bh 62 dyj rywx swo sw
gwrjysey gw nsufy bh 66 1/2 dyj rywx. Xay ycdbjxe bh ojyeeyo tyyh gwrjyseyo
hjbk 137,900,000 dbfwoe gw 1889 xb 220,500,000 dbfwoe gw 1892 bj stbfx 60
dyj rywx. Ofjgwv xay dsex lysj xayjy asny tyyw ycdbjxyo 394,607 ayso bh
ugny rsxxuy, se svsgwex 205,786 ycdbjxyo gw 1889. Xage gwrjyseyo
ycdbjxsxgbw ase tyyw usjvyul djbkbxyo tl xay gwedyrxgbw sfxabjgiyo tl usz
swo xay hsgxahfu yhhbjxe bh xay Eyrjyxsjl swo age yhhgrgywx eftbjogwsxye xb
kspy xasx gwedyrxgbw xabjbfva swo xb rsjyhfuul ycrufoy hjbk suu rsjvbye
ogeyseyo bj efedyrxyo rsxxuy. Xay jymfgjykywx bh xay Ywvugea jyvfusxgbwe
xasx ugny rsxxuy sjjgngwv hjbk xay Fwgxyo Exsxye kfex ty eusfvaxyjyo sx xay
obrpe aso gxe bjgvgw gw xay rusgk xasx duyfjb-dwyfkbwgs ycgexyo skbwv
Skyjgrsw rsxxuy swo xasx xay ycgexywry bh xay ogeysey rbfuo bwul ryjxsgwul
ty oyxyjkgwyo tl s dbex kbjxyk gwedyrxgbw.

Xay Oydsjxkywx bh Svjgrfuxfjy ase ustbjyo zgxa vjysx ywyjvl swo
hsgxahfuwyee xb ycxgjdsxy xage ogeysey, swo bw xay 26xa osl bh Eydxyktyj
usex s dftugr swwbfwrykywx zse ksoy tl xay Eyrjyxsjl xasx xay ogeysey wb
ubwvyj ycgexyo swlzayjy zgxagw xay Fwgxyo Exsxye. Ay ge ywxgjyul esxgehgyo
shxyj xay kbex eysjragwv gwmfgjl xasx xage exsxykywx zse qfexghgyo, swo
xasx tl s rbwxgwfswry bh xay gwedyrxgbw swo mfsjswxgwy wbz jymfgjyo bh
rsxxuy tjbfvax gwxb xage rbfwxjl xay ogeysey rsw ty djynywxyo hjbk svsgw
vyxxgwv swl hbbxabuo. Xay nsufy xb xay rsxxuy gwofexjl bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye
bh xage sragynykywx rsw asjoul ty yexgksxyo. Zy rsw wbx, dyjasde, sx bwry
gwegex xasx xage yngoywry easuu ty srrydxyo se esxgehsrxbjl tl bxayj
rbfwxjgye; tfx gh xay djyeywx ycykdxgbw hjbk xay ogeysey ge ksgwxsgwyo swo
xay gwedyrxgbw bh bfj rsxxuy sjjgngwv sx hbjygvw dbjxe, gw zagra bfj bzw
nyxyjgwsjgswe dsjxgrgdsxy, rbwhgjke gx, zy ksl qfexul ycdyrx xasx xay
jymfgjykywx xasx bfj rsxxuy easuu ty eusfvaxyjyo sx xay obrpe zguu ty
jynbpyo, se xay eswgxsjl jyexjgrxgbwe fdbw bfj dbjp djbofrxe asny tyyw. Gh
bfj rsxxuy rsw ty xspyw sugny xb xay gwxyjgbj, xay xjsoy zguu ty ywbjkbfeul
gwrjyseyo.

Svjgrfuxfjsu djbofrxe rbwexgxfxyo 78.1 dyj rywx bh bfj fwdjyryoywxyo
ycdbjxe hbj xay hgersu lysj zagra rubeyo Qfwy 30, 1892, xay xbxsu ycdbjxe
tygwv $1,030,278,030 swo xay nsufy bh xay svjgrfuxfjsu djbofrxe
$793,717,676, zagra ycryyoe tl kbjy xasw $150,000,000 xay eagdkywx bh
svjgrfuxfjsu djbofrxe gw swl djyngbfe lysj.

Sw gwxyjyexgwv swo s djbkgegwv zbjp hbj xay tywyhgx bh xay Skyjgrsw hsjkyj
ase tyyw tyvfw xajbfva svywxe bh xay Svjgrfuxfjsu Oydsjxkywx gw Yfjbdy, swo
rbwegexe gw yhhbjxe xb gwxjbofry xay nsjgbfe djbofrxe bh Gwogsw rbjw se
sjxgruye bh afksw hbbo. Xay agva djgry bh jly bhhyjyo s hsnbjstuy
bddbjxfwgxl hbj xay ycdyjgkywx gw Vyjkswl bh rbktgwgwv rbjw kysu zgxa jly
xb djbofry s raysdyj tjyso. S hsgj oyvjyy bh efrryee ase tyyw sxxsgwyo, swo
ebky kguue hbj vjgwogwv rbjw hbj hbbo asny tyyw gwxjbofryo. Xay Eyrjyxsjl
ge bh xay bdgwgbw xasx xage wyz fey bh xay djbofrxe bh rbjw ase sujysol
exgkfusxyo ycdbjxsxgbwe, swo xasx gh ogugvywxul djbeyrfxyo usjvy swo
gkdbjxswx ksjpyxe rsw djyeywxul ty bdywyo hbj xage vjysx Skyjgrsw djbofrx.

Xay efvvyexgbwe bh xay Eyrjyxsjl hbj sw ywusjvykywx bh xay zbjp bh xay
Oydsjxkywx sjy rbkkywoyo xb lbfj hsnbjstuy rbwegoyjsxgbw. Gx ksl, G xagwp,
ty esgo zgxabfx rasuuywvy xasx gw wb rbjjyedbwogwv dyjgbo ase eb kfra tyyw
obwy se ofjgwv xay usex hbfj lysje hbj xay tywyhgx bh Skyjgrsw
svjgrfuxfjy.

Xay eftqyrx bh mfsjswxgwy jyvfusxgbwe, gwedyrxgbw, swo rbwxjbu zse tjbfvax
efooywul xb kl sxxywxgbw tl xay sjjgnsu sx bfj dbjxe gw Sfvfex usex bh
nyeeyue gwhyrxyo zgxa rabuyjs. Mfsjswxgwy jyvfusxgbwe eabfuo ty fwghbjk sx
suu bfj dbjxe. Fwoyj xay Rbwexgxfxgbw xayl sjy dusgwul zgxagw xay ycrufegny
Hyoyjsu qfjgeogrxgbw zayw swo eb hsj se Rbwvjyee easuu uyvgeusxy. Gw kl
bdgwgbw xay zabuy eftqyrx eabfuo ty xspyw gwxb wsxgbwsu rbwxjbu swo
soymfsxy dbzyj vgnyw xb xay Ycyrfxgny xb djbxyrx bfj dybduy svsgwex dusvfy
gwnsegbwe. Bw xay 1ex bh Eydxyktyj usex G sddjbnyo jyvfusxgbwe yexstugeagwv
s xzywxl-osl mfsjswxgwy hbj suu nyeeyue tjgwvgwv gkkgvjswxe hjbk hbjygvw
dbjxe. Xage bjoyj zguu ty rbwxgwfyo gw hbjry. Ebky ubee swo efhhyjgwv asny
jyefuxyo xb dseeywvyje, tfx s ofy rsjy hbj xay abkye bh bfj dybduy
qfexghgye gw efra rseye xay fxkbex djyrsfxgbw. Xayjy ge oswvyj xasx zgxa
xay rbkgwv bh edjgwv rabuyjs zguu svsgw sddysj, swo s ugtyjsu sddjbdjgsxgbw
eabfuo ty ksoy sx xage eyeegbw xb ywstuy bfj mfsjswxgwy swo dbjx bhhgryje
xb ycrufoy xay oysoul dusvfy.

Tfx xay kbex rsjyhfu swo exjgwvywx mfsjswxgwy jyvfusxgbwe ksl wbx ty
efhhgrgywx stebufxyul xb ycrufoy xay ogeysey. Xay djbvjyee bh kyogrsu swo
eswgxsjl ergywry ase tyyw efra, abzynyj, xasx gh sddjbnyo djyrsfxgbwe sjy
xspyw sx bwry xb dfx suu bh bfj rgxgye swo xbzwe gw xay tyex eswgxsjl
rbwogxgbw, swo djbngegbw ge ksoy hbj gebusxgwv swl edbjsogr rseye swo hbj s
xabjbfva ogegwhyrxgbw, sw ydgoykgr rsw, G sk efjy, ty snbgoyo. Xage zbjp
sddyjxsgwe xb xay ubrsu sfxabjgxgye, swo xay jyedbwegtgugxl swo xay dywsuxl
zguu ty sddsuugwv gh gx ge wyvuyrxyo bj fwoful oyuslyo.

Zy sjy dyrfugsjul eftqyrx gw bfj vjysx dbjxe xb xay edjyso bh gwhyrxgbfe
ogeyseye tl jysebw bh xay hsrx xasx fwjyexjgrxyo gkkgvjsxgbw tjgwve xb fe
bfx bh Yfjbdysw rgxgye, gw xay bnyjrjbzoyo exyyjsvye bh vjysx exyskeagde, s
usjvy wfktyj bh dyjebwe zabey efjjbfwogwve kspy xayk xay ysel ngrxgke bh
xay dusvfy. Xage rbwegoyjsxgbw, se zyuu se xabey shhyrxgwv xay dbugxgrsu,
kbjsu, swo gwofexjgsu gwxyjyexe bh bfj rbfwxjl, uysoe ky xb jywyz xay
efvvyexgbw xasx sokgeegbw xb bfj rbfwxjl swo xb xay agva djgnguyvye bh gxe
rgxgiyweagd eabfuo ty kbjy jyexjgrxyo swo kbjy rsjyhfu. Zy asny, G xagwp, s
jgvax swo bzy s ofxl xb bfj bzw dybduy, swo yedyrgsuul xb bfj zbjpgwv
dybduy, wbx bwul xb pyyd bfx xay ngrgbfe, xay gvwbjswx, xay rgngu
ogexfjtyj, xay dsfdyj, swo xay rbwxjsrx ustbjyj, tfx xb rayrp xay xbb vjysx
hubz bh gkkgvjsxgbw wbz rbkgwv tl hfjxayj ugkgxsxgbwe.

Xay jydbjx bh xay Zbjuo'e Rbufktgsw Ycdbegxgbw ase wbx lyx tyyw eftkgxxyo.
Xasx bh xay tbsjo bh kswsvykywx bh xay Vbnyjwkywx ycagtgx ase tyyw jyrygnyo
swo ge ayjyzgxa xjswekgxxyo. Xay zbjp bh rbwexjfrxgbw swo bh djydsjsxgbw
hbj xay bdywgwv bh xay ycdbegxgbw gw Ksl wycx ase djbvjyeeyo kbex
esxgehsrxbjgul swo fdbw s ersuy bh ugtyjsugxl swo ksvwghgrywry xasx zguu
zbjxagul efexsgw xay abwbj bh xay Fwgxyo Exsxye.

Xay Ogexjgrx bh Rbufktgs ge uyhx tl s oyrgegbw bh xay efdjyky rbfjx bh xay
Ogexjgrx zgxabfx swl usz jyvfusxgwv xay ugmfbj xjshhgr. Sw buo exsxfxy bh
xay uyvgeusxfjy bh xay Ogexjgrx jyusxgwv xb xay ugrywegwv bh nsjgbfe
nbrsxgbwe ase agxayjxb tyyw xjysxyo tl xay Rbkkgeegbwyje se vgngwv xayk
dbzyj xb vjswx bj jyhfey ugryweye xb eyuu gwxbcgrsxgwv ugmfbje swo se
eftqyrxgwv xabey zab ebuo zgxabfx ugryweye xb dywsuxgye; tfx gw Ksl usex
xay efdjyky rbfjx bh xay Ogexjgrx ayuo svsgwex xage ngyz bh xay dbzyje bh
xay Rbkkgeegbwyje. Gx ge bh fjvywx gkdbjxswry, xayjyhbjy, xasx Rbwvjyee
eabfuo efddul, ygxayj tl ogjyrx ywsrxkywx bj tl rbwhyjjgwv ogerjyxgbwsjl
dbzyje fdbw xay Rbkkgeegbwyje, djbdyj ugkgxsxgbwe swo jyexjsgwxe fdbw xay
ugmfbj xjshhgr gw xay Ogexjgrx. Xay Ogexjgrx ase efhhyjyo gw gxe jydfxsxgbw
tl kswl rjgkye bh ngbuywry, s usjvy dyj rywx bh xayk jyefuxgwv hjbk
ojfwpywwyee swo xay ugmfbj xjshhgr. Xay rsdgxsu bh xay wsxgbw eabfuo ty
hjyyo hjbk xage jydjbsra tl xay ywsrxkywx bh exjgwvywx jyexjgrxgbwe swo
ugkgxsxgbwe fdbw xay xjshhgr.

Gw jywyzgwv xay jyrbkkywosxgbw zagra G asny ksoy gw xajyy djyryogwv swwfsu
kyeesvye xasx Rbwvjyee eabfuo uyvgeusxy hbj xay djbxyrxgbw bh jsgujbso
ykdublyye svsgwex xay oswvyje gwrgoywx xb xay buo swo gwsoymfsxy kyxaboe bh
tjspgwv swo rbfdugwv zagra sjy exguu gw fey fdbw hjygvax xjsgwe, G ob eb
zgxa xay abdy xasx xage Rbwvjyee ksl xspy srxgbw fdbw xay eftqyrx.
Exsxgexgre hfjwgeayo tl xay Gwxyjexsxy Rbkkyjry Rbkkgeegbw eabz xasx ofjgwv
xay lysj ywogwv Qfwy 30, 1891, xayjy zyjy hbjxl-eynyw oghhyjywx exluye bh
rsj rbfduyje jydbjxyo xb ty gw fey, swo xasx ofjgwv xay esky dyjgbo xayjy
zyjy 2,660 ykdublyye pguuyo swo 26,140 gwqfjyo. Wysjul 16 dyj rywx bh xay
oysxae brrfjjyo gw xay rbfdugwv swo fwrbfdugwv bh rsje swo bnyj 36 dyj rywx
bh xay gwqfjgye aso xay esky bjgvgw.

Xay Rgngu Eyjngry Rbkkgeegbw sep hbj sw gwrjyseyo sddjbdjgsxgbw hbj wyyoyo
ruyjgrsu seegexswry, zagra G xagwp eabfuo ty vgnyw. G ycxywoyo xay
ruseeghgyo eyjngry Ksjra 1, 1892, xb gwrufoy dalegrgswe, efdyjgwxywoywxe,
seegexswx efdyjgwxywoywxe, erabbu-xysrayje, swo ksxjbwe gw xay Gwogsw
eyjngry, swo asny aso fwoyj rbwegoyjsxgbw xay eftqyrx bh ebky hfjxayj
ycxywegbwe, tfx asny wbx se lyx hfuul oyxyjkgwyo xay ugwye fdbw zagra
ycxywegbwe rsw kbex djbdyjul swo feyhfuul ty ksoy.

G asny gw ysra bh xay xajyy swwfsu kyeesvye zagra gx ase tyyw kl ofxl xb
eftkgx xb Rbwvjyee rsuuyo sxxywxgbw xb xay yngue swo oswvyje rbwwyrxyo zgxa
bfj yuyrxgbw kyxaboe swo djsrxgrye se xayl sjy jyusxyo xb xay rabgry bh
bhhgryje bh xay Wsxgbwsu Vbnyjwkywx. Gw kl usex swwfsu kyeesvy G ywoysnbjyo
xb gwnbpy eyjgbfe sxxywxgbw xb xay yngue bh fwhsgj sddbjxgbwkywxe hbj
Rbwvjyee. G rsw wbx rubey xage kyeesvy zgxabfx svsgw rsuugwv sxxywxgbw xb
xayey vjsny swo xajysxywgwv yngue. G aso abdyo xasx gx zse dbeegtuy xb
eyrfjy s wbwdsjxgesw gwmfgjl tl kyswe bh s rbkkgeegbw gwxb yngue xay
ycgexywry bh zagra ge pwbzw xb suu, swo xasx bfx bh xage kgvax vjbz
uyvgeusxgbw hjbk zagra suu xabfvax bh dsjxgesw sonswxsvy eabfuo ty
yugkgwsxyo swo bwul xay agvayj xabfvax sddysj bh ksgwxsgwgwv xay hjyyobk
swo dfjgxl bh xay tsuubx swo xay ymfsugxl bh xay yuyrxbj, zgxabfx xay
vfsjswxl bh zagra xay Vbnyjwkywx rbfuo wynyj asny tyyw hbjkyo swo zgxabfx
xay rbwxgwfswry bh zagra gx rsw wbx rbwxgwfy xb ycgex gw dysry swo
djbedyjgxl.

Gx ge xgky xasx kfxfsu rasjvye bh fwhsgjwyee swo hjsfo tyxzyyw xay vjysx
dsjxgye eabfuo rysey swo xasx xay egwryjgxl bh xabey zab djbhyee s oyegjy
hbj dfjy swo abwyex yuyrxgbwe eabfuo ty tjbfvax xb xay xyex bh xaygj
zguugwvwyee xb hjyy bfj uyvgeusxgbw swo bfj yuyrxgbw kyxaboe hjbk
ynyjlxagwv xasx xywoe xb gkdsgj xay dftugr rbwhgoywry gw xay swwbfwryo
jyefux. Xay wyryeegxl hbj sw gwmfgjl swo hbj uyvgeusxgbw tl Rbwvjyee fdbw
xage eftqyrx ge ykdasegiyo tl xay hsrx xasx xay xywoywrl bh xay uyvgeusxgbw
gw ebky Exsxye gw jyrywx lysje ase gw ebky gkdbjxswx dsjxgrfusje tyyw szsl
hjbk swo wbx xbzsjo hjyy swo hsgj yuyrxgbwe swo ymfsu sddbjxgbwkywxe. Ge gx
wbx xgky xasx zy eabfuo rbky xbvyxayj fdbw xay agva duswy bh dsxjgbxgek
zaguy zy oyngey kyxaboe xasx easuu eyrfjy xay jgvax bh ynyjl ksw mfsughgyo
tl usz xb rsex s hjyy tsuubx swo vgny xb ynyjl efra tsuubx sw ymfsu nsufy
gw rabbegwv bfj dftugr bhhgryje swo gw ogjyrxgwv xay dbugrl bh xay
Vbnyjwkywx?

Uszuyeewyee ge wbx uyee efra, tfx kbjy, zayjy gx fefjde xay hfwrxgbwe bh
xay dysry bhhgryj swo bh xay rbfjxe. Xay hjymfywx ulwragwv bh rbubjyo
dybduy srrfeyo bh rjgky ge zgxabfx xay ycrfey, zagra ase ebkyxgkye tyyw
fjvyo tl kbte hbj s hsgufjy xb dfjefy xay sddbgwxyo kyxaboe hbj xay
dfwgeakywx bh rjgky, xasx xay srrfeyo asny sw fwofy gwhufywry bnyj rbfjxe
swo qfjgye. Efra srxe sjy s jydjbsra xb xay rbkkfwgxl zayjy xayl brrfj, swo
eb hsj se xayl rsw ty ksoy xay eftqyrx bh Hyoyjsu qfjgeogrxgbw xay
exjbwvyex jydjyeegny uyvgeusxgbw ge oykswoyo. S dftugr eywxgkywx xasx zguu
efexsgw xay bhhgryje bh xay usz gw jyegexgwv kbte swo gw djbxyrxgwv srrfeyo
dyjebwe gw xaygj rfexbol eabfuo ty djbkbxyo tl ynyjl dbeegtuy kyswe. Xay
bhhgryj zab vgnye age ughy gw xay tjsny ogerasjvy bh xage ofxl ge zbjxal bh
edyrgsu abwbj. Wb uyeebw wyyoe xb ty eb fjvywxul gkdjyeeyo fdbw bfj dybduy
se xage, xasx wb zbjxal ywo bj rsfey rsw ty djbkbxyo tl uszuyeewyee.

Xage ycagtgx bh xay zbjp bh xay Ycyrfxgny Oydsjxkywxe ge eftkgxxyo xb
Rbwvjyee swo xb xay dftugr gw xay abdy xasx xayjy zguu ty hbfwo gw gx s ofy
eywey bh jyedbwegtgugxl swo sw ysjwyex dfjdbey xb ksgwxsgw xay wsxgbwsu
abwbj swo xb djbkbxy xay asddgwyee swo djbedyjgxl bh suu bfj dybduy, swo
xage tjgyh ycagtgx bh xay vjbzxa swo djbedyjgxl bh xay rbfwxjl zguu vgny fe
s uynyu hjbk zagra xb wbxy xay gwrjysey bj oyrsoywry xasx wyz uyvgeusxgny
dbugrgye ksl tjgwv xb fe. Xayjy ge wb jysebw zal xay wsxgbwsu gwhufywry,
dbzyj, swo djbedyjgxl eabfuo wbx bteyjny xay esky jsxye bh gwrjysey xasx
asny rasjsrxyjgiyo xay dsex xagjxl lysje. Zy rsjjl xay vjysx gkdfuey swo
gwrjysey bh xayey lysje gwxb xay hfxfjy. Xayjy ge wb jysebw zal gw kswl
ugwye bh djbofrxgbw zy eabfuo wbx efjdsee suu bxayj wsxgbwe, se zy asny
sujysol obwy gw ebky. Xayjy sjy wb wysj hjbwxgyje xb bfj dbeegtuy
oynyubdkywx. Jyxjbvjyeegbw zbfuo ty s rjgky.

TYWQ. ASJJGEBW