Pe pgy Tydrpy rdz Gehty ew Syksytydprpcnyt:

Pgy sykespt ew pgy tynysrv Ymyqhpcny Zykrspfydpt, agcqg acvv ly vrcz lywesy
Qedisytt cd pgy hthrv qehsty, acvv ymgclcp cd zyprcv pgy ekysrpcedt ew pgy
Ienysdfydp wes pgy vrtp wctqrv byrs. Edvb pgy fesy cfkesprdp cdqczydpt rdz
sythvpt, rdz qgcywvb thqg rt frb ly pgy wehdzrpced ew pgy syqeffydzrpcedt C
tgrvv thlfcp, acvv ly sywyssyz pe cd pgct rddhrv fyttriy.

Pgy nrtp rdz cdqsyrtcdi lhtcdytt ew pgy Ienysdfydp grt lyyd psrdtrqpyz lb
pgy tynysrv Zykrspfydpt zhscdi pgy byrs acpg wrcpgwhvdytt, ydysib, rdz
thqqytt.

Pgy synydhyt, rfehdpcdi pe rleny $450,000,000, grny lyyd qevvyqpyz rdz
zctlhstyz acpgehp synyrvcdi, te wrs rt C qrd rtqysprcd, r tcdivy qrty ew
zywrvqrpced es yflyoovyfydp. Rd yrsdytp ywwesp grt lyyd frzy pe tpcfhvrpy r
tydty ew sytkedtclcvcpb rdz khlvcq zhpb cd rvv ewwcqyst rdz yfkvebyyt ew
ynysb isrzy, rdz pgy aesj zedy lb pgyf grt rvfetp agevvb ytqrkyz
hdwrnesrlvy qscpcqctf. C tkyrj ew pgyty frppyst acpg wsyyzef lyqrhty pgy
qsyzcp ew pgct ieez aesj ct dep fcdy, lhp ct tgrsyz lb pgy gyrzt ew pgy
tynysrv Zykrspfydpt acpg pgy isyrp lezb ew wrcpgwhv ewwcqyst rdz yfkvebyyt
age tysny hdzys pgyf. Pgy qvetytp tqshpcdb ew Qedisytt ct cdncpyz pe rvv
pgy fypgezt ew rzfcdctpsrpced rdz pe ynysb cpyf ew ymkydzcphsy.

Pgy wscydzvb syvrpcedt ew ehs qehdpsb acpg pgy drpcedt ew Yhseky rdz ew pgy
Yrtp grny lyyd hdzctphslyz, agcvy pgy pcyt ew ieez acvv rdz qeffed cdpysytp
pgrp lcdz ht pe pgy Tprpyt ew pgy Aytpysd Gyfctkgysy grny lyyd deprlvb
tpsydipgydyz lb pgy qedwysydqy gyvz cd pgct qrkcprv pe qedtczys fyrthsyt
wes pgy iydysrv ayvwrsy. Khsthrdp pe pgy cdncprpced rhpgescoyz lb Qedisytt,
pgy syksytydprpcnyt ew ynysb cdzykydzydp Tprpy ew pgy Rfyscqrd qedpcdydp
rdz ew Grbpc fyp cd qedwysydqy cd pgct qrkcprv cd Eqpelys, 1889, rdz
qedpcdhyz cd tyttced hdpcv pgy 19pg ew vrtp Rkscv. Pgct cfkesprdp
qedneqrpced frsjt r fetp cdpysytpcdi rdz cdwvhydpcrv ykeqg cd pgy gctpesb
ew pgy Aytpysd Gyfctkgysy. Cp ct depyaespgb pgrp Lsrocv, cdncpyz agcvy
hdzys rd cfkyscrv wesf ew ienysdfydp, tgrsyz rt r sykhlvcq cd pgy
zyvclysrpcedt rdz sythvpt ew pgy qedwysydqy. Pgy syqeffydzrpcedt ew pgct
qedwysydqy aysy rvv psrdtfcppyz pe Qedisytt rp pgy vrtp tyttced.

Pgy Cdpysdrpcedrv Frscdy Qedwysydqy, agcqg trp rp Artgcdiped vrtp acdpys,
syrqgyz r nysb isrpcwbcdi sythvp. Pgy syihvrpcedt thiiytpyz grny lyyd
lsehigp pe pgy rppydpced ew rvv pgy Ienysdfydpt syksytydpyz, rdz pgycs
iydysrv rzekpced ct qedwczydpvb ymkyqpyz. Pgy vyictvrpced ew Qedisytt rp
pgy vrtp tyttced ct cd qedwesfcpb acpg pgy kseketcpcedt ew pgy qedwysydqy,
rdz pgy kseqvrfrpced pgysycd ksenczyz wes acvv ly ctthyz agyd pgy epgys
keayst grny icnyd depcqy ew pgycs rzgytced.

Pgy Qedwysydqy ew Lshttyvt, pe zyncty fyrdt wes thkksyttcdi pgy tvrny psrzy
cd Rwscqr, rwweszyz rd ekkesphdcpb wes r dya ymksyttced ew pgy cdpysytp pgy
Rfyscqrd kyekvy wyyv cd pgrp isyrp aesj. Cp teed lyqrfy ynczydp pgrp pgy
fyrthsy kseketyz aehvz prm pgy sytehsqyt ew pgy Jedie Lrtcd lybedz pgy
synydhyt rnrcvrlvy hdzys pgy iydysrv rqp ew Lysvcd ew 1884. Pgy Hdcpyz
Tprpyt, dep lycdi r krspb pe pgrp rqp, qehvz dep tgrsy cd cpt synctced, lhp
lb r tykrsrpy rqp pgy Cdzykydzydp Tprpy ew pgy Jedie art wsyyz wsef pgy
sytpscqpcedt hked r qhtpeft synydhy. Pgy zyfesrvcocdi rdz zytpshqpcny
psrwwcq cd rszydp tkcscpt rfedi pgy psclyt rvte qvrcfyz pgy yrsdytp
rppydpced ew pgy qedwysydqy, rdz pgy zyvyirpyt ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt aysy
wesyfetp cd rzneqrpcdi fyrthsyt wes cpt syksyttced. Rd rqqesz art syrqgyz
pgy cdwvhydqy ew agcqg acvv ly nysb gyvkwhv rdz ympydz enys r aczy syiced.
Rt teed rt pgyty fyrthsyt tgrvv syqycny pgy trdqpced ew pgy Dypgysvrdzt,
wes r pcfy acpggyvz, pgy iydysrv rqpt acvv ly thlfcppyz wes srpcwcqrpced lb
pgy Tydrpy. Fyrdagcvy dyiepcrpcedt grny lyyd ekydyz wes r dya rdz qefkvypyz
psyrpb ew wscydztgck, qeffysqy, rdz drncirpced lypayyd pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt
rdz pgy Cdzykydzydp Tprpy ew pgy Jedie.

Pearsz pgy ydz ew pgy krtp byrs pgy edvb cdzykydzydp fedrsqgcqrv ienysdfydp
ed pgy Aytpysd Qedpcdydp, pgrp ew Lsrocv, qyrtyz pe ymctp, rdz art
thqqyyzyz lb r sykhlvcq. Zckvefrpcq syvrpcedt aysy rp edqy ytprlvctgyz acpg
pgy dya Ienysdfydp, lhp cp art dep qefkvypyvb syqeidcoyz hdpcv rd
ekkesphdcpb grz lyyd rwweszyz pe rtqysprcd pgrp cp grz kekhvrs rkksenrv rdz
thkkesp. Agyd pgy qehsty ew ynydpt grz bcyvzyz rtthsrdqy ew pgct wrqp, de
pcfy art vetp cd ympydzcdi pe pgy dya Ienysdfydp r whvv rdz qeszcrv ayvqefy
cdpe pgy wrfcvb ew Rfyscqrd Qeffedayrvpgt. Cp ct qedwczydpvb lyvcynyz pgrp
pgy ieez syvrpcedt ew pgy pae qehdpscyt acvv ly ksytysnyz rdz pgrp pgy
whphsy acvv acpdytt rd cdqsyrtyz cdpcfrqb ew cdpysqehsty rdz rd ymkrdtced
ew pgycs fhphrv qeffysqy.

Pgy kyrqy ew Qydpsrv Rfyscqr grt rircd lyyd zctphslyz pgsehig r
synevhpcedrsb qgrdiy cd Trvnrzes, agcqg art dep syqeidcoyz lb epgys Tprpyt,
rdz getpcvcpcyt lsejy ehp lypayyd Trvnrzes rdz Ihrpyfrvr, pgsyrpydcdi pe
cdnevny rvv Qydpsrv Rfyscqr cd qedwvcqp rdz pe hdze pgy kseisytt agcqg grz
lyyd frzy pearsz r hdced ew pgycs cdpysytpt. Pgy ywwespt ew pgct Ienysdfydp
aysy ksefkpvb rdz oyrvehtvb ymyspyz pe qefkety pgycs zcwwysydqyt, rdz
pgsehig pgy rqpcny ywwespt ew pgy syksytydprpcny ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt r
ksenctcedrv psyrpb ew kyrqy art tcidyz Rhihtp 26, agysylb pgy scigp ew pgy
Sykhlvcq ew Trvnrzes pe qgeety cpt ead shvyst art syqeidcoyz. Iydysrv
Yoypr, pgy qgcyw ew pgy Ksenctcedrv Ienysdfydp, grt tcdqy lyyd qedwcsfyz cd
pgy Ksytczydqb lb pgy Rttyflvb, rdz zckvefrpcq syqeidcpced zhvb wevveayz.

Pgy jcvvcdi ew Iydysrv Lrsshdzcr ed lersz pgy Krqcwcq frcv tpyrfys
Rqrkhvqe, agcvy rdqgesyz cd psrdtcp cd pgy kesp ew Trd Uety zy Ihrpyfrvr,
zyfrdzyz qrsywhv cdxhcsb. Grncdi wrcvyz cd r synevhpcedrsb rppyfkp pe
cdnrzy Ihrpyfrvr wsef Fymcqrd pysscpesb, Iydysrv Lrsshdzcr peej krttriy rp
Rqrkhvqe wes Krdrfr. Pgy qedtydp ew pgy syksytydprpcnyt ew pgy Hdcpyz
Tprpyt art tehigp pe ywwyqp gct tycohsy, wcstp rp Qgrfkyscqe, agysy pgy
tpyrfys pehqgyz, rdz rwpysarszt rp Trd Uety. Pgy qrkprcd ew pgy tpyrfys
sywhtyz pe icny hk gct krttydiys acpgehp r ascppyd eszys wsef pgy Hdcpyz
Tprpyt fcdctpys. Pgy vrppys whsdctgyz pgy zytcsyz vyppys, tpckhvrpcdi rt
pgy qedzcpced ew gct rqpced pgrp Iydysrv Lrsshdzcr't vcwy tgehvz ly tkrsyz
rdz pgrp gy tgehvz ly pscyz edvb wes ewwydtyt iseacdi ehp ew gct
cdthssyqpcedrsb fenyfydpt. Pgct vyppys art ksezhqyz pe pgy qrkprcd ew pgy
Rqrkhvqe lb pgy fcvcprsb qeffrdzys rp Trd Uety rt gct arssrdp pe prjy pgy
krttydiys wsef pgy tpyrfys. Iydysrv Lrsshdzcr sytctpyz qrkphsy rdz art
jcvvyz. Cp lycdi ynczydp pgrp pgy fcdctpys, Fs. Fcodys, grz ymqyyzyz pgy
lehdzt ew gct rhpgescpb cd cdpysnydcdi, cd qefkvcrdqy acpg pgy zyfrdzt ew
pgy Ihrpyfrvrd rhpgescpcyt, pe rhpgescoy rdz ywwyqp, cd ncevrpced ew
ksyqyzydp, pgy tycohsy ed r nyttyv ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt ew r krttydiys cd
psrdtcp qgrsiyz acpg kevcpcqrv ewwydtyt, cd eszys pgrp gy fcigp ly pscyz
wes thqg ewwydtyt hdzys agrp art zytqsclyz rt frspcrv vra, C art
qedtpsrcdyz pe zctrnea Fs. Fcodys't rqp rdz syqrvv gcf wsef gct ketp.

Pgy Dcqrsrihr Qrdrv kseuyqp, hdzys pgy qedpsev ew ehs qcpcoydt, ct frjcdi
fetp ydqehsricdi kseisytt, rvv pgy ksyvcfcdrsb qedzcpcedt rdz cdcpcrv
ekysrpcedt grncdi lyyd rqqefkvctgyz acpgcd pgy ksytqsclyz pcfy.

Zhscdi pgy krtp byrs dyiepcrpcedt grny lyyd sydyayz wes pgy typpvyfydp ew
pgy qvrcft ew Rfyscqrd qcpcoydt rircdtp pgy Ienysdfydp ew Qgcvy,
kscdqckrvvb iseacdi ehp ew pgy vrpy ars acpg Kysh. Pgy sykespt wsef ehs
fcdctpys rp Trdpcrie arssrdp pgy ymkyqprpced ew rd yrsvb rdz trpctwrqpesb
rzuhtpfydp.

Ehs syvrpcedt acpg Qgcdr, agcqg grny wes tynysrv byrst eqqhkcyz te
cfkesprdp r kvrqy cd ehs zckvefrpcq gctpesb, grny qrvvyz wes qrsywhv
qedtczysrpced rdz grny lyyd pgy thluyqp ew fhqg qessytkedzydqy.

Pgy qeffhdcqrpcedt ew pgy Qgcdyty fcdctpys grny lsehigp cdpe ncya pgy agevy
thluyqp ew ehs qednydpcedrv syvrpcedt acpg gct qehdpsb, rdz rp pgy trfy
pcfy pgct Ienysdfydp, pgsehig cpt vyirpced rp Kyjcdi, grt tehigp pe rssrdiy
nrsceht frppyst rdz qefkvrcdpt pehqgcdi pgy cdpysytpt rdz ksepyqpced ew ehs
qcpcoydt cd Qgcdr.

Cd khsthrdqy ew pgy qedqhssydp sytevhpced ew Eqpelys 1, 1890, C grny
kseketyz pe pgy Ienysdfydpt ew Fymcqe rdz Isyrp Lscprcd pe qedtczys r
qednydpcedrv syihvrpced ew pgy krttriy ew Qgcdyty vrlesyst rqsett ehs
tehpgysd rdz despgysd wsedpcyst.

Ed pgy 22z zrb ew Rhihtp vrtp Tcs Yzfhdz Fedted, pgy rslcpsrpes tyvyqpyz
hdzys pgy psyrpb ew Zyqyflys 6, 1888, sydzysyz rd rarsz pe pgy ywwyqp pgrp
de qefkydtrpced art zhy wsef pgy Zrdctg Ienysdfydp pe pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt ed
rqqehdp ew agrp ct qeffedvb jdead rt pgy Qrsvet Lhppyswcyvz qvrcf.

Ehs syvrpcedt acpg pgy Wsydqg Sykhlvcq qedpcdhy pe ly qeszcrv. Ehs
syksytydprpcny rp pgrp qehsp grt nysb zcvciydpvb hsiyz pgy syfenrv ew pgy
sytpscqpcedt cfketyz hked ehs fyrp ksezhqpt, rdz cp ct lyvcynyz pgrp
thltprdpcrv kseisytt grt lyyd frzy pearsz r uhtp typpvyfydp.

Pgy Trferd psyrpb, tcidyz vrtp byrs rp Lysvcd lb pgy syksytydprpcnyt ew pgy
Hdcpyz Tprpyt, Iysfrdb, rdz Isyrp Lscprcd, rwpys zhy srpcwcqrpced rdz
ymqgrdiy, grt lyihd pe ksezhqy trvhprsb ywwyqpt. Pgy wesfrpced ew pgy
ienysdfydp risyyz hked acvv teed sykvrqy pgy zcteszys ew pgy krtp lb r
tprlvy rzfcdctpsrpced rvcjy uhtp pe pgy drpcnyt rdz yxhcprlvy pe pgy pgsyy
keayst fetp qedqysdyz cd psrzy rdz cdpysqehsty acpg pgy Trferd Ctvrdzt. Pgy
qgcyw uhtpcqy grt lyyd qgetyd lb pgy Jcdi ew Tayzyd rdz Desarb ed pgy
cdncprpced ew pgy pgsyy keayst, rdz acvv teed ly cdtprvvyz. Pgy vrdz
qeffcttced rdz pgy fhdcqckrv qehdqcv rsy cd kseqytt ew esirdcorpced. R
srpcedrv rdz ynydvb zctpsclhpyz tqgyfy ew prmrpced, lepg fhdcqckrv rdz hked
cfkespt, ct cd ekysrpced. Frvcyper ct sytkyqpyz rt Jcdi.

Pgy dya psyrpb ew ympsrzcpced acpg Isyrp Lscprcd, rwpys zhy srpcwcqrpced,
art kseqvrcfyz ed pgy 25pg ew vrtp Frsqg. Cpt lydywcqcrv aesjcdi ct rvsyrzb
rkkrsydp.

Pgy zcwwysydqy lypayyd pgy pae Ienysdfydpt pehqgcdi pgy whs-tyrv xhytpced
cd pgy Lyscdi Tyr ct dep byp rzuhtpyz, rt acvv ly tyyd lb pgy
qessytkedzydqy agcqg acvv teed ly vrcz lywesy pgy Qedisytt. Pgy ewwys pe
thlfcp pgy xhytpced pe rslcpsrpced, rt kseketyz lb Gys Fruytpb't
Ienysdfydp, grt dep lyyd rqqykpyz, wes pgy syrted pgrp pgy wesf ew
thlfcttced kseketyz ct dep pgehigp pe ly qrvqhvrpyz pe rtthsy r qedqvhtced
trpctwrqpesb pe ycpgys krspb. Cp ct tcdqysyvb gekyz pgrp lywesy pgy ekydcdi
ew rdepgys tyrvcdi tyrted tefy rssrdiyfydp frb ly ywwyqpyz agcqg acvv
rtthsy pe pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt r ksekyspb scigp zyscnyz wsef Shttcr, agcqg art
dep zctsyirszyz lb rdb drpced wes fesy pgrd ycigpb byrst ksyqyzcdi pgy
ehplsyrj ew pgy ymctpcdi psehlvy.

Cd pgy prscww rqp r asedi art zedy pe pgy Jcdizef ew Grarcc agcqg C rf
lehdz pe ksythfy art agevvb hdcdpydpcedrv. Zhpcyt aysy vyncyz ed qysprcd
qeffezcpcyt agcqg rsy cdqvhzyz cd pgy syqckseqcpb psyrpb dea ymctpcdi
lypayyd pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt rdz pgy Jcdizef ew Grarcc, acpgehp cdzcqrpcdi pgy
dyqyttrsb ymqykpced cd wrnes ew pgrp Jcdizef. C geky Qedisytt acvv sykrcs
agrp fcigp epgysacty tyyf pe ly r lsyrqg ew wrcpg ed pgy krsp ew pgct
Ienysdfydp.

Rd rarsz cd wrnes ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt cd pgy frppys ew pgy qvrcf ew Fs.
Nrd Lejjyvyd rircdtp Grbpc art sydzysyz ed pgy 4pg ew Zyqyflys, 1888, lhp
eacdi pe zcteszyst pgyd rdz rwpysarszt ksynrcvcdi cd Grbpc pgy pysft ew
krbfydp aysy dep eltysnyz. R dya risyyfydp rt pe pgy pcfy ew krbfydp grt
lyyd rkksenyz rdz ct dea cd wesqy. Epgys uhtp qvrcft ew qcpcoydt ew pgy
Hdcpyz Tprpyt wes syzsytt ew asedit thwwysyz zhscdi pgy vrpy kevcpcqrv
qedwvcqp cd Grbpc acvv, cp ct gekyz, tkyyzcvb bcyvz pe wscydzvb psyrpfydp.

Kseketcpcedt wes pgy rfydzfydp ew pgy psyrpb ew ympsrzcpced lypayyd pgy
Hdcpyz Tprpyt rdz Cprvb rsy dea hdzys qedtczysrpced.

Beh acvv ly rtjyz pe ksenczy pgy fyrdt ew rqqykpcdi pgy cdncprpced ew pgy
Cprvcrd Ienysdfydp pe prjy krsp cd rd rkkserqgcdi qedwysydqy pe qedtczys
pgy rzekpced ew r hdcnystrv kscfy fysczcrd wsef agcqg pe syqjed vedicphzy
rdz pcfy. Rt pgct kseketrv wevveat cd pgy psrqj ew pgy sywesf tehigp pe ly
cdcpcrpyz lb pgy Fysczcrd Qedwysydqy ew Artgcdiped, gyvz ed pgy cdncprpced
ew pgct Ienysdfydp, pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt tgehvz frdcwytp r wscydzvb cdpysytp
cd pgy Cprvcrd kseketrv.

Cd pgct qeddyqpced C frb sywys acpg rkksenrv pe pgy thiiytpced ew fb
ksyzyqyttest pgrp tprdzcdi ksenctced ly frzy wes rqqykpcdi, agydynys zyyfyz
rznctrlvy, pgy wsyxhydp cdncprpcedt ew wesycid ienysdfydpt pe tgrsy cd
qedwysydqyt veejcdi pe pgy rznrdqyfydp ew cdpysdrpcedrv sywesft cd syirsz
pe tqcydqy, trdcprpced, qeffysqcrv vrat rdz kseqyzhsy, rdz epgys frppyst
rwwyqpcdi pgy cdpysqehsty rdz kseisytt ew fezysd qeffhdcpcyt.

Cd pgy thffys ew 1889 rd cdqczydp eqqhssyz agcqg wes tefy pcfy pgsyrpydyz
pe cdpysshkp pgy qeszcrvcpb ew ehs syvrpcedt acpg pgy Ienysdfydp ew
Kesphirv. Pgrp Ienysdfydp tycoyz pgy Zyvrier Lrb Srcvarb, agcqg art
qedtpshqpyz hdzys r qedqyttced isrdpyz pe rd Rfyscqrd qcpcoyd, rdz rp pgy
trfy pcfy rddhvvyz pgy qgrspys. Pgy qedqyttcedrsb, age grz yflrsjyz gct
wesphdy cd pgy ydpyskscty, grncdi ymgrhtpyz epgys fyrdt ew syzsytt, art
qefkyvvyz pe cdnejy pgy ksepyqpced ew gct Ienysdfydp. Ehs syksytydprpcedt,
frzy qecdqczydpvb acpg pgety ew pgy Lscpctg Ienysdfydp, agety thluyqpt aysy
rvte vrsiyvb cdpysytpyz, grkkcvb sythvpyz cd pgy syqeidcpced lb Kesphirv ew
pgy ksekscypb ew thlfcppcdi pgy qvrcf wes cdzyfdcpb iseacdi ehp ew cpt
rqpced pe rslcpsrpced. Pgct kvrd ew typpvyfydp grncdi lyyd risyyz hked, pgy
cdpysytpyz keayst syrzcvb qedqhssyz cd pgy kseketrv pe thlfcp pgy qrty pe
pgy uhzifydp ew pgsyy yfcdydp uhsctpt, pe ly zytcidrpyz lb pgy Ksytczydp ew
pgy Tactt Sykhlvcq, age, hked pgy uecdp cdncprpced ew pgy Ienysdfydpt ew
pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt, Isyrp Lscprcd, rdz Kesphirv, grt tyvyqpyz kystedt ayvv
xhrvcwcyz wes pgy prtj lywesy pgyf.

Pgy synctced ew ehs psyrpb syvrpcedt acpg pgy Yfkcsy ew Urkrd grt qedpcdhyz
pe ly pgy thluyqp ew qedtczysrpced rdz ew qessytkedzydqy. Pgy xhytpcedt
cdnevnyz rsy lepg isrny rdz zyvcqrpy; rdz agcvy cp acvv ly fb zhpb pe tyy
pgrp pgy cdpysytpt ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt rsy dep lb rdb qgrdiyt ymketyz pe
hdzhy zctqscfcdrpced, C tcdqysyvb geky pgrp thqg synctced rt acvv trpctwb
pgy vyicpcfrpy ymkyqprpcedt ew pgy Urkrdyty Ienysdfydp rdz frcdprcd pgy
ksytydp rdz vedi-ymctpcdi wscydzvb syvrpcedt lypayyd Urkrd rdz pgy Hdcpyz
Tprpyt acvv ly ywwyqpyz.

Pgy wscydztgck lypayyd ehs qehdpsb rdz Fymcqe, lesd ew qvety dyciglesgeez
rdz tpsydipgydyz lb frdb qedtczysrpcedt ew cdpcfrpy cdpysqehsty rdz
syqckseqrv cdpysytp, grt dynys lyyd fesy qedtkcqheht pgrd dea des fesy
gekywhv ew cdqsyrtyz lydywcp pe lepg drpcedt. Pgy cdpysqehsty ew pgy pae
qehdpscyt lb srcv, rvsyrzb isyrp, ct frjcdi qedtprdp iseapg. Pgy
ytprlvctgyz vcdyt rdz pgety syqydpvb kseuyqpyz rzz pe pgy cdpcfrqb ew
psrwwcq rdz ekyd dya qgrddyvt ew rqqytt pe wsytg rsyrt ew zyfrdz rdz
thkkvb. Pgy cfkesprdqy ew pgy Fymcqrd srcvarb tbtpyf acvv ly whspgys
ydgrdqyz pe r zyisyy rvfetp cfkettclvy pe wesyqrtp cw cp tgehvz lyqefy r
vcdj cd pgy kseuyqpyz cdpysqedpcdydprv srcvarb. C syqeffydz pgrp ehs
fcttced cd pgy Qcpb ew Fymcqe ly srctyz pe pgy wcstp qvrtt.

Pgy qeszcrv qgrsrqpys ew ehs syvrpcedt acpg Tkrcd arssrdpt pgy geky pgrp lb
pgy qedpcdhrdqy ew fypgezt ew wscydzvb dyiepcrpced fhqg frb ly rqqefkvctgyz
cd pgy zcsyqpced ew rd rzuhtpfydp ew kydzcdi xhytpcedt rdz ew pgy cdqsyrty
ew ehs psrzy. Pgy ympydp rdz zynyvekfydp ew ehs psrzy acpg pgy ctvrdz ew
Qhlr cdnytp pgy qeffysqcrv syvrpcedt ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt rdz Tkrcd acpg r
kyqhvcrs cfkesprdqy. Cp ct dep zehlpyz pgrp r tkyqcrv rssrdiyfydp cd syirsz
pe qeffysqy, lrtyz hked pgy syqckseqcpb ksenctced ew pgy syqydp prscww rqp,
aehvz ekysrpy fetp lydywcqcrvvb wes lepg Ienysdfydpt. Pgct thluyqp ct dea
syqycncdi rppydpced.

Pgy sytpesrpced ew pgy syfrcdt ew Uegd Yscqtted pe Tayzyd rwweszyz r
isrpcwbcdi eqqrtced pe gedes pgy fyfesb ew pgy isyrp cdnydpes, pe agety
iydcht ehs qehdpsb eayt te fhqg, rdz pe lyrs acpdytt pe pgy hdlsejyd
wscydztgck agcqg grt ymctpyz lypayyd pgy vrdz agcqg lesy gcf rdz ehs ead,
agcqg qvrcfyz gcf rt r qcpcoyd.

Ed pgy 2z ew Tykpyflys vrtp pgy qeffcttced rkkecdpyz pe syncty pgy
kseqyyzcdit ew pgy qeffcttced hdzys pgy qvrcft qednydpced lypayyd pgy
Hdcpyz Tprpyt rdz Nydyohyvr ew 1866 lsehigp cpt vrlest pe r qvety acpgcd
pgy kyscez wcmyz wes pgrp khskety. Pgy kseqyyzcdit ew pgy vrpy qeffcttced
aysy qgrsrqpyscoyz lb r tkcscp ew cfkrspcrvcpb rdz r gcig tydty ew uhtpcqy,
rdz rd cdqczydp agcqg art wes frdb byrst pgy thluyqp ew zctqhttced lypayyd
pgy pae Ienysdfydpt grt lyyd zctketyz ew cd r frddys rvcjy gedesrlvy rdz
trpctwrqpesb pe lepg krspcyt. Wes pgy typpvyfydp ew pgy qvrcf ew pgy
Nydyohyvr Tpyrf Psrdtkesprpced Qefkrdb, agcqg art pgy thluyqp ew r uecdp
sytevhpced rzekpyz rp pgy vrtp tyttced ew Qedisytt, dyiepcrpcedt rsy tpcvv
cd kseisytt, rdz pgycs yrsvb qedqvhtced ct rdpcqckrpyz.

Pgy vyictvrpced ew pgy krtp wya byrst grt yncdqyz ed pgy krsp ew Qedisytt r
iseacdi syrvcorpced ew pgy cfkesprdqy ew pgy qedthvrs tysncqy cd wetpyscdi
ehs qeffysqcrv syvrpcedt rlserz rdz cd ksepyqpcdi pgy zefytpcq synydhyt. Rt
pgy tqeky ew ekysrpcedt ymkrdzt cdqsyrtyz ksenctced fhtp ly frzy pe jyyk hk
pgy yttydpcrv tprdzrsz ew ywwcqcydqb. Pgy dyqyttcpb ew tefy rzyxhrpy
fyrthsy ew thkysnctced rdz cdtkyqpced grt lyyd te ewpyd ksytydpyz pgrp C
dyyz edvb qeffydz pgy thluyqp pe behs rppydpced.

Pgy synydhyt ew pgy Ienysdfydp wsef rvv tehsqyt wes pgy wctqrv byrs ydzcdi
Uhdy 30, 1890, aysy $463,963,080.55 rdz pgy peprv ymkydzcphsyt wes pgy trfy
kyscez aysy $358,618,584.52. Pgy ketprv syqyckpt grny dep gysypewesy lyyd
cdqvhzyz cd pgy tprpyfydp ew pgyty riisyirpyt, rdz wes pgy khskety ew
qefkrscted pgy thf ew $60,882,097.92 tgehvz ly zyzhqpyz wsef lepg tczyt ew
pgy rqqehdp. Pgy thskvht wes pgy byrs, cdqvhzcdi pgy rfehdp rkkvcyz pe pgy
tcdjcdi whdz, art $105,344,496.03. Pgy syqyckpt wes 1890 aysy
$16,030,923.79 rdz pgy ymkydzcphsyt $15,739,871 cd ymqytt ew pgety ew 1889.
Pgy qhtpeft syqyckpt cdqsyrtyz $5,835,842.88 rdz pgy syqyckpt wsef cdpysdrv
synydhy $11,725,191.89, agcvy ed pgy tczy ew ymkydzcphsyt pgrp wes kydtcedt
art $19,312,075.96 cd ymqytt ew pgy ksyqyzcdi byrs.

Pgy Psyrthsb tprpyfydp wes pgy qhssydp wctqrv byrs, krspvb rqphrv rdz
krspvb ytpcfrpyz, ct rt wevveat: Syqyckpt wsef rvv tehsqyt, $406,000,000;
peprv ymkydzcphsyt, $354,000,000, vyrncdi r thskvht ew $52,000,000, dep
prjcdi pgy ketprv syqyckpt cdpe pgy rqqehdp ed ycpgys tczy. Pgy vett ew
synydhy wsef qhtpeft wes pgy vrtp xhrspys ct ytpcfrpyz rp $25,000,000, lhp
wsef pgct ct zyzhqpyz r ircd ew rlehp $16,000,000 syrvcoyz zhscdi pgy wcstp
wehs fedpgt ew pgy byrs.

Wes pgy byrs 1892 pgy peprv ytpcfrpyz syqyckpt rsy $373,000,000 rdz pgy
ytpcfrpyz ymkydzcphsyt $357,852,209.42, vyrncdi rd ytpcfrpyz thskvht ew
$15,247,790.58, agcqg, acpg r qrtg lrvrdqy ew $52,000,000 rp pgy lyicddcdi
ew pgy byrs, acvv icny $67,247,790.58 rt pgy thf rnrcvrlvy wes pgy
syzyfkpced ew ehptprdzcdi ledzt es epgys htyt. Pgy ytpcfrpyt ew syqyckpt
rdz ymkydzcphsyt wes pgy Ketp-Ewwcqy Zykrspfydp, lycdi yxhrv, rsy dep
cdqvhzyz cd pgct tprpyfydp ed ycpgys tczy.

Pgy rqp "zcsyqpcdi pgy khsqgrty ew tcvnys lhvvced rdz pgy ctthy ew Psyrthsb
depyt pgysyed," rkksenyz Uhvb 14, 1890, grt lyyd rzfcdctpysyz lb pgy
Tyqsyprsb ew pgy Psyrthsb acpg rd yrsdytp khskety pe iyp cdpe qcsqhvrpced
rp pgy yrsvcytp kettclvy zrpyt pgy whvv fedpgvb rfehdpt ew Psyrthsb depyt
qedpyfkvrpyz lb cpt ksenctcedt rdz rp pgy trfy pcfy pe icny pe pgy frsjyp
wes pgy tcvnys lhvvced thqg thkkesp rt pgy vra qedpyfkvrpyt. Pgy syqydp
zyksyqcrpced cd pgy kscqy ew tcvnys grt lyyd eltysnyz acpg syisyp. Pgy
srkcz scty cd kscqy agcqg rdpcqckrpyz rdz wevveayz pgy krttriy ew pgy rqp
art cdwvhydqyz cd tefy zyisyy lb tkyqhvrpced, rdz pgy syqydp syrqpced ct cd
krsp pgy sythvp ew pgy trfy qrhty rdz cd krsp ew pgy syqydp fedyprsb
zctphslrdqyt. Tefy fedpgt ew whspgys pscrv acvv ly dyqyttrsb pe zypysfcdy
pgy kysfrdydp ywwyqp ew pgy syqydp vyictvrpced hked tcvnys nrvhyt, lhp cp
ct isrpcwbcdi pe jdea pgrp pgy cdqsyrtyz qcsqhvrpced tyqhsyz lb pgy rqp grt
ymyspyz, rdz acvv qedpcdhy pe ymysp, r fetp lydywcqcrv cdwvhydqy hked
lhtcdytt rdz hked iydysrv nrvhyt.

Agcvy cp grt dep lyyd pgehigp lytp pe sydya wesfrvvb pgy thiiytpced ew rd
cdpysdrpcedrv qedwysydqy veejcdi pe rd risyyfydp pehqgcdi pgy whvv hty ew
tcvnys wes qecdriy rp r hdcwesf srpce, qrsy grt lyyd prjyd pe eltysny
qvetyvb rdb qgrdiy cd pgy tcphrpced rlserz, rdz de wrnesrlvy ekkesphdcpb
acvv ly vetp pe ksefepy r sythvp agcqg cp ct qedwczydpvb lyvcynyz aehvz
qedwys nysb vrsiy lydywcpt hked pgy qeffysqy ew pgy aesvz.

Pgy syqydp fedyprsb zctphslrdqyt cd Ydivrdz rsy dep hdvcjyvb pe thiiytp r
syymrfcdrpced ew ekcdcedt hked pgct thluyqp. Ehs nysb vrsiy thkkvb ew ievz
acvv, cw dep vetp lb cfkhvtcny vyictvrpced cd pgy thkketyz cdpysytp ew
tcvnys, icny ht r ketcpced ew rznrdpriy cd ksefepcdi r kysfrdydp rdz trwy
cdpysdrpcedrv risyyfydp wes pgy wsyy hty ew tcvnys rt r qecd fyprv.

Pgy ywwespt ew pgy Tyqsyprsb pe cdqsyrty pgy nevhfy ew fedyb cd qcsqhvrpced
lb jyykcdi zead pgy Psyrthsb thskvht pe pgy veaytp ksrqpcqrlvy vcfcp grny
lyyd hdsyfcppcdi rdz cd r nysb gcig zyisyy thqqyttwhv. Pgy prlvyt ksytydpyz
lb gcf tgeacdi pgy cdqsyrty ew fedyb cd qcsqhvrpced zhscdi pgy vrtp pae
zyqrzyt, rdz ytkyqcrvvb pgy prlvy tgeacdi pgy cdqsyrty zhscdi pgy dcdypyyd
fedpgt gy grt rzfcdctpysyz pgy rwwrcst ew pgy Zykrspfydp, rsy cdpysytpcdi
rdz cdtpshqpcny. Pgy cdqsyrty ew fedyb cd qcsqhvrpced zhscdi pgy dcdypyyd
fedpgt grt lyyd cd pgy riisyirpy $93,866,813, es rlehp $1.50 kys qrkcpr,
rdz ew pgct cdqsyrty edvb $7,100,000 art zhy pe pgy syqydp tcvnys
vyictvrpced. Pgrp pgct thltprdpcrv rdz dyyzyz rcz icnyd pe qeffysqy
sythvpyz cd rd ydesfeht syzhqpced ew pgy khlvcq zylp rdz ew pgy rddhrv
cdpysytp qgrsiy ct frppys ew cdqsyrtyz trpctwrqpced. Pgysy grny lyyd
khsqgrtyz rdz syzyyfyz tcdqy Frsqg 4, 1889, 4 rdz 4 1\2 kys qydp ledzt pe
pgy rfehdp ew $211,832,450, rp r qetp ew $246,620,741, sythvpcdi cd pgy
syzhqpced ew pgy rddhrv cdpysytp qgrsiy ew $8,967,609 rdz r peprv trncdi ew
cdpysytp ew $51,576,706.

C depcqy acpg isyrp kvyrthsy pgy tprpyfydp ew pgy Tyqsyprsb pgrp pgy
syqyckpt wsef cdpysdrv synydhy grny cdqsyrtyz zhscdi pgy vrtp wctqrv byrs
dyrsvb $12,000,000, rdz pgrp pgy qetp ew qevvyqpcdi pgct vrsiys synydhy art
vytt lb $90,617 pgrd wes pgy trfy khskety cd pgy ksyqyzcdi byrs. Pgy
kysqydpriy ew qetp ew qevvyqpcdi pgy qhtpeft synydhy art vytt wes pgy vrtp
wctqrv byrs pgrd ynys lywesy.

Pgy Qhtpeft Rzfcdctpsrpced Lersz, ksenczyz wes lb pgy rqp ew Uhdy 10, 1890,
art tyvyqpyz acpg isyrp qrsy, rdz ct qefketyz cd krsp ew fyd agety ksynceht
ymkyscydqy cd pgy rzfcdctpsrpced ew pgy evz qhtpeft syihvrpcedt grz frzy
pgyf wrfcvcrs acpg pgy yncvt pe ly syfyzcyz, rdz cd krsp ew fyd agety vyirv
rdz uhzcqcrv rqxhcsyfydpt rdz ymkyscydqy tyyfyz pe wcp pgyf wes pgy aesj ew
cdpysksypcdi rdz rkkvbcdi pgy dya tprphpy. Pgy qgcyw rcf ew pgy vra ct pe
tyqhsy gedytp nrvhrpcedt ew rvv zhpcrlvy fysqgrdzcty rdz pe frjy pgyty
nrvhrpcedt hdcwesf rp rvv ehs kespt ew ydpsb. Cp grz lyyd frzy frdcwytp lb
r Qedisyttcedrv cdnytpcirpced pgrp r tbtpyf ew hdzysnrvhrpced grz lyyd vedi
cd hty lb qysprcd qvrttyt ew cfkespyst, sythvpcdi dep edvb cd r isyrp vett
ew synydhy, lhp cd r fetp cdpevysrlvy zctqscfcdrpced rircdtp gedytpb. Cp ct
dep tyyd gea pgct vyictvrpced, agyd cp ct hdzystpeez, qrd ly syirszyz lb
pgy qcpcoydt ew rdb qehdpsb grncdi qeffysqcrv zyrvcdit acpg ht rt
hdwscydzvb. Cw rdb zhpb ct thkketyz pe ly ymqyttcny, vyp pgy qefkvrcdp ly
veziyz pgysy. Cp acvv thsyvb dep ly qvrcfyz lb rdb ayvv-zctketyz kyekvy
pgrp r syfyzb frb ly tehigp rdz rvveayz cd r tbtpyf ew xhrtc tfhiivcdi.

Pgy sykesp ew pgy Tyqsyprsb ew Ars ymgclcpt tynysrv isrpcwbcdi sythvpt
rpprcdyz zhscdi pgy byrs lb acty rdz hdetpydprpceht fypgezt. Pgy kysqydpriy
ew zytyspcedt wsef pgy Rsfb (rd yncv wes agcqg lepg Qedisytt rdz pgy
Zykrspfydp grny vedi lyyd tyyjcdi r syfyzb) grt lyyd syzhqyz zhscdi pgy
krtp byrs 24 kys qydp, rdz wes pgy fedpgt ew Rhihtp rdz Tykpyflys, zhscdi
agcqg pcfy pgy wrnesrlvy ywwyqpt ew pgy rqp ew Uhdy 16 aysy wyvp, 33 kys
qydp, rt qefkrsyz acpg pgy trfy fedpgt ew 1889.

Pgy sythvpt rpprcdyz lb r syesirdcorpced rdz qedtevczrpced ew pgy zcnctcedt
grncdi qgrsiy ew pgy getkcprv rdz tysncqy syqeszt ew pgy nevhdpyys tevzcyst
rsy nysb syfrsjrlvy. Pgct qgrdiy art ywwyqpyz cd Uhvb, 1889, rdz rp pgrp
pcfy pgysy aysy 40,654 qrtyt rarcpcdi rppydpced, fesy pgrd grvw ew pgyty
lycdi qrvvt wsef pgy Kydtced Ewwcqy wes cdwesfrpced dyqyttrsb pe pgy
rzuhzcqrpced ew kydtced qvrcft. Ed pgy 30pg zrb ew Uhdy vrtp, pgehig enys
300,000 dya qrvvt grz qefy cd, pgysy art dep r tcdivy qrty pgrp grz dep
lyyd ymrfcdyz rdz rdtaysyz.

C qedqhs cd pgy syqeffydzrpcedt ew pgy Tyqsyprsb pgrp rzyxhrpy rdz syihvrs
rkksekscrpcedt ly qedpcdhyz wes qertp-zywydty aesjt rdz eszdrdqy. Kvrdt
grny lyyd ksrqpcqrvvb risyyz hked, rdz pgysy qrd ly de ieez syrted wes
zyvrbcdi pgy ymyqhpced ew pgyf, agcvy pgy zywydtyvytt tprpy ew ehs isyrp
tyrkespt whsdctgyt rd hsiydp syrted wes acty ymkyzcpced.

Pgy ydqehsriyfydp pgrp grt lyyd ympydzyz pe pgy fcvcpcr ew pgy Tprpyt,
iydysrvvb rdz fetp rkksekscrpyvb zytcidrpyz pgy "Drpcedrv Ihrsz," tgehvz ly
qedpcdhyz rdz ydvrsiyz. Pgyty fcvcprsb esirdcorpcedt qedtpcphpy cd r vrsiy
tydty pgy Rsfb ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt, agcvy rlehp wcny-tcmpgt ew pgy rddhrv
qetp ew pgycs frcdpydrdqy ct zywsrbyz lb pgy Tprpyt.

Pgy sykesp ew pgy Rppesdyb-Iydysrv ct hdzys pgy vra thlfcppyz zcsyqpvb pe
Qedisytt, lhp rt pgy Zykrspfydp ew Uhtpcqy ct edy ew pgy Ymyqhpcny
Zykrspfydpt tefy sywysydqy pe pgy aesj zedy ct rkksekscrpy gysy.

R ncieseht rdz cd pgy frcd rd ywwyqpcny ywwesp grt lyyd frzy pe lscdi pe
pscrv rdz khdctgfydp rvv ncevrpest ew pgy vra, lhp rp pgy trfy pcfy qrsy
grt lyyd prjyd pgrp wscneveht rdz pyqgdcqrv ewwydtyt tgehvz dep ly htyz pe
tayvv pgy wyyt ew ewwcqyst es pe grsrtt ayvv-zctketyz qcpcoydt. Ytkyqcrv
rppydpced ct qrvvyz pe pgy wrqpt qeddyqpyz acpg pgy ksetyqhpced ew
ncevrpcedt ew pgy yvyqpced vrat rdz ew ewwydtyt rircdtp Hdcpyz Tprpyt
ewwcqyst. Pgy dhflys ew qedncqpcedt tyqhsyz, nysb frdb ew pgyf hked kvyrt
ew ihcvpb, acvv, cp ct gekyz, grny r trvhprsb sytpsrcdcdi cdwvhydqy. Pgysy
grny lyyd tynysrv qrtyt agysy ketpfrtpyst rkkecdpyz lb fy grny lyyd
thluyqpyz pe ncevydp cdpyswysydqy cd pgy zctqgrsiy ew pgycs ewwcqcrv zhpcyt
rdz pe kystyqhpcedt rdz kystedrv ncevydqy ew pgy fetp ympsyfy qgrsrqpys.
Tefy ew pgyty qrtyt grny lyyd zyrvp acpg pgsehig pgy Zykrspfydp ew Uhtpcqy,
rdz cd tefy qrtyt pgy ketp-ewwcqyt grny lyyd rlevctgyz es thtkydzyz. C grny
zcsyqpyz pgy Ketpfrtpys-Iydysrv pe khsthy pgct qehsty cd rvv qrtyt agysy
epgys ywwespt wrcvyz pe tyqhsy wes rdb ketpfrtpys dep gcftyvw cd wrhvp rd
ekkesphdcpb kyrqywhvvb pe ymysqcty pgy zhpcyt ew gct ewwcqy. Lhp thqg
rqpced acvv dep thkkvrdp pgy ywwespt ew pgy Zykrspfydp ew Uhtpcqy pe lscdi
pgy krspcqhvrs ewwydzyst pe khdctgfydp.

Pgy nrqrpced lb uhzcqcrv zyqsyyt ew wsrhzhvydp qyspcwcqrpyt ew
drphsrvcorpced, hked lcvvt cd yxhcpb wcvyz lb pgy Rppesdyb-Iydysrv cd pgy
qcsqhcp qehsp ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt, ct r dya rkkvcqrpced ew r wrfcvcrs
yxhcpb uhsctzcqpced. Dyrsvb edy ghdzsyz thqg zyqsyyt grny lyyd prjyd zhscdi
pgy byrs, pgy ynczydqy zctqvetcdi pgrp r nysb vrsiy dhflys ew wsrhzhvydp
qyspcwcqrpyt ew drphsrvcorpced grny lyyd ctthyz. Rdz cd pgct qeddyqpced C
lyi pe sydya fb syqeffydzrpced pgrp pgy vrat ly te rfydzyz rt pe syxhcsy r
fesy whvv rdz tyrsqgcdi cdxhcsb cdpe rvv pgy wrqpt dyqyttrsb pe
drphsrvcorpced lywesy rdb qyspcwcqrpyt rsy isrdpyz. Cp qysprcdvb ct dep pee
fhqg pe syxhcsy pgrp rd rkkvcqrpced wes Rfyscqrd qcpcoydtgck tgrvv ly gyrsz
acpg rt fhqg qrsy rdz syqeszyz acpg rt fhqg wesfrvcpb rt rsy icnyd pe qrtyt
cdnevncdi pgy kyppcytp ksekyspb scigp.

Rp pgy vrtp tyttced C syphsdyz acpgehp fb rkksenrv r lcvv ydpcpvyz "Rd rqp
pe ksegclcp leejfrjcdi rdz keev tyvvcdi cd pgy Zctpscqp ew Qevhflcr," rdz
tprpyz fb eluyqpced pe ly pgrp cp zcz dep ksegclcp lhp cd wrqp vcqydtyz
agrp cp khskespyz pe ksegclcp. Rd ywwesp acvv ly frzy hdzys ymctpcdi vrat
pe thkksytt pgct yncv, pgehig cp ct dep qysprcd pgrp pgyb acvv ly wehdz
rzyxhrpy.

Pgy sykesp ew pgy Ketpfrtpys-Iydysrv tgeat pgy fetp isrpcwbcdi kseisytt cd
pgy cfkesprdp aesj qeffcppyz pe gct zcsyqpced. Pgy lhtcdytt fypgezt grny
lyyd isyrpvb cfksenyz. R vrsiy yqedefb cd ymkydzcphsyt rdz rd cdqsyrty ew
wehs rdz pgsyy-xhrspyst fcvvcedt cd syqyckpt grny lyyd syrvcoyz. Pgy
zywcqcydqb pgct byrs ct $5,786,300, rt rircdtp $6,350,183 vrtp byrs,
depacpgtprdzcdi pgy isyrp ydvrsiyfydp ew pgy tysncqy. Frcv sehpyt grny lyyd
ympydzyz rdz xhcqjydyz rdz isyrpys rqqhsrqb rdz zctkrpqg cd zctpsclhpced
rdz zyvcnysb grny lyyd rpprcdyz. Pgy sykesp acvv ly wehdz pe ly whvv ew
cdpysytp rdz thiiytpced, dep edvb pe Qedisytt, lhp pe pgety pgehigpwhv
qcpcoydt age frb ly cdpysytpyz pe jdea agrp lhtcdytt fypgezt qrd ze wes
pgrp zykrspfydp ew khlvcq rzfcdctpsrpced agcqg fetp dyrsvb pehqgyt rvv ehs
kyekvy.

Pgy krttriy ew pgy rqp pe rfydz qysprcd tyqpcedt ew pgy Synctyz Tprphpyt
syvrpcdi pe veppyscyt, rkksenyz Tykpyflys 19, 1890, grt lyyd syqycnyz acpg
isyrp rdz zytysnyz kekhvrs wrnes. Pgy Ketp-Ewwcqy Zykrspfydp rdz pgy
Zykrspfydp ew Uhtpcqy rp edqy ydpysyz hked pgy ydwesqyfydp ew pgy vra acpg
tbfkrpgypcq ncies, rdz rvsyrzb pgy khlvcq frcvt grny lyyd vrsiyvb wsyyz
wsef pgy wsrhzhvydp rdz zyfesrvcocdi rkkyrvt rdz vcpysrphsy yfrdrpcdi wsef
pgy veppysb qefkrdcyt.

Pgy qedtpshqpced rdz yxhckfydp ew pgy dya tgckt wes pgy Drnb grny frzy nysb
trpctwrqpesb kseisytt. Tcdqy Frsqg 4, 1889, dcdy dya nyttyvt grny lyyd khp
cd qeffcttced, rdz zhscdi pgct acdpys wehs fesy, cdqvhzcdi edy fedcpes,
acvv ly rzzyz. Pgy qedtpshqpced ew pgy epgys nyttyvt rhpgescoyz ct lycdi
khtgyz lepg cd pgy Ienysdfydp rdz kscnrpy brszt acpg ydysib rdz arpqgyz
acpg pgy fetp tqshkhveht qrsy.

Pgy ymkyscfydpt qedzhqpyz zhscdi pgy byrs pe pytp pgy syvrpcny sytctpcdi
keays ew rsfes kvrpyt grny lyyd te nrvhrlvy rt pe rppsrqp isyrp rppydpced
cd Yhseky. Pgy edvb krsp ew pgy aesj hked pgy dya tgckt pgrp ct pgsyrpydyz
lb hdhthrv zyvrb ct pgy rsfes kvrpcdi, rdz ynysb ywwesp ct lycdi frzy pe
syzhqy pgrp pe pgy fcdcfhf. Cp ct r tehsqy ew qedisrphvrpced pgrp pgy
rdpcqckrpyz cdwvhydqy ew pgyty fezysd nyttyvt hked pgy ytkscp zy qeskt ew
pgy ewwcqyst rdz tyrfyd grt lyyd whvvb syrvcoyz. Qedwczydqy rdz ksczy cd
pgy tgck rfedi pgy qsya rsy yxhcnrvydp pe r tyqedzrsb lrppysb. Behs
wrnesrlvy qedtczysrpced ct cdncpyz pe pgy syqeffydzrpcedt ew pgy
Tyqsyprsb.

Pgy sykesp ew pgy Tyqsyprsb ew pgy Cdpysces ymgclcpt acpg isyrp whvvdytt
rdz qvyrsdytt pgy nrtp aesj ew pgrp Zykrspfydp rdz pgy trpctwrqpesb sythvpt
rpprcdyz. Pgy thiiytpcedt frzy lb gcf rsy yrsdytpvb qeffydzyz pe pgy
qedtczysrpced ew Qedisytt, pgehig pgyb qrd dep rvv ly icnyd krspcqhvrs
fydpced gysy.

Pgy tynysrv rqpt ew Qedisytt veejcdi pe pgy syzhqpced ew pgy vrsiys Cdzcrd
sytysnrpcedt, pe pgy fesy srkcz typpvyfydp ew pgy Cdzcrdt hked cdzcnczhrv
rvvepfydpt, rdz pgy sytpesrpced pe pgy khlvcq zefrcd ew vrdzt cd ymqytt ew
pgycs dyyzt grny lyyd vrsiyvb qrsscyz cdpe ywwyqp te wrs rt pgy aesj art
qedwczyz pe pgy Ymyqhpcny. Risyyfydpt grny lyyd qedqvhzyz tcdqy Frsqg 4,
1889, cdnevncdi pgy qyttced pe pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt ew rlehp 14,726,000 rqsyt
ew vrdz. Pgyty qedpsrqpt grny, rt syxhcsyz lb vra, lyyd thlfcppyz pe
Qedisytt wes srpcwcqrpced rdz wes pgy rkksekscrpcedt dyqyttrsb pe qrssb
pgyf cdpe ywwyqp. Pgety acpg pgy Tcttyped rdz Argkyped, Trq rdz Wem, Cear,
Kepprarpefcyt rdz Rltydpyy Tgradyyt, rdz Qeyhs z'Rvydy psclyt grny dep byp
syqycnyz pgy trdqpced ew Qedisytt. Rppydpced ct rvte qrvvyz pe pgy wrqp
pgrp pgy rkksekscrpcedt frzy cd pgy qrty ew pgy Tcehm Cdzcrdt grny dep
qenysyz rvv pgy tpckhvrpyz krbfydpt. Pgct tgehvz ly ksefkpvb qessyqpyz. Cw
rd risyyfydp ct qedwcsfyz, rvv ew cpt pysft tgehvz ly qefkvcyz acpg acpgehp
zyvrb rdz whvv rkksekscrpcedt tgehvz ly frzy.

Pgy kevcqb ehpvcdyz cd fb vrtp rddhrv fyttriy cd syvrpced pe pgy krpydpcdi
ew vrdzt pe typpvyst hked pgy khlvcq zefrcd grt lyyd qrsscyz ehp cd pgy
rzfcdctpsrpced ew pgy Vrdz Ewwcqy. De iydysrv thtkcqced es cfkhprpced ew
wsrhz grt lyyd rvveayz pe zyvrb pgy gyrscdi rdz rzuhzcqrpced ew cdzcnczhrv
qrtyt hked pgycs fyscpt. Pgy khskety grt lyyd pe kyswyqp pgy pcpvy ew
gedytp typpvyst acpg thqg ksefkpdytt pgrp pgy nrvhy ew pgy ydpsb fcigp dep
ly tarvveayz hk lb pgy ymkydty rdz ympespcedt pe agcqg zyvrb thluyqpyz pgy
qvrcfrdp. Pgy rnysriy fedpgvb ctthy ew riscqhvphsrv krpydpt grt lyyd
cdqsyrtyz rlehp 6,000.

Pgy zctrlcvcpb-kydtced rqp, agcqg art rkksenyz ed pgy 27pg ew Uhdy vrtp,
grt lyyd khp cdpe ekysrpced rt srkczvb rt art ksrqpcqrlvy. Pgy cdqsyrtyz
qvyscqrv wesqy ksenczyz art tyvyqpyz rdz rttcidyz pe aesj, rdz r
qedtczysrlvy krsp ew pgy wesqy ydiriyz cd ymrfcdrpcedt cd pgy wcyvz art
syqrvvyz rdz rzzyz pe pgy aesjcdi wesqy ew pgy ewwcqy. Pgy ymrfcdrpced rdz
rzuhzcqrpced ew qvrcft grny lb syrted ew cfksenyz fypgezt lyyd fesy srkcz
pgrd ynys lywesy. Pgysy ct de yqedefb pe pgy Ienysdfydp cd zyvrb, agcvy
pgysy ct fhqg grsztgck rdz cduhtpcqy pe pgy tevzcys. Pgy rdpcqckrpyz
ymkydzcphsy, agcvy nysb vrsiy, acvv dep, cp ct lyvcynyz, ly cd ymqytt ew
pgy ytpcfrpyt frzy lywesy pgy ydrqpfydp ew pgy vra. Pgct vclysrv
ydvrsiyfydp ew pgy iydysrv vra tgehvz thiiytp r fesy qrsywhv tqshpcdb ew
lcvvt wes tkyqcrv syvcyw, lepg rt pe pgy qrtyt agysy syvcyw ct isrdpyz rdz
rt pe pgy rfehdp rvveayz.

Pgy cdqsyrtcdi dhflyst rdz cdwvhydqy ew pgy ded-Fesfed kekhvrpced ew Hprg
rsy eltysnyz acpg trpctwrqpced. Pgy syqydp vyppys ew Acvwesz Aeezshww,
ksytczydp ew pgy Fesfed Qghsqg, cd agcqg gy rznctyz gct kyekvy "pe sywsrcd
wsef qedpsrqpcdi rdb frsscriy weslczzyd lb pgy vrat ew pgy vrdz," grt
rppsrqpyz aczy rppydpced, rdz cp ct gekyz pgrp cpt cdwvhydqy acvv ly gcigvb
lydywcqcrv cd sytpsrcdcdi cdwsrqpcedt ew pgy vrat ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt. Lhp
pgy wrqp tgehvz dep ly enysveejyz pgrp pgy zeqpscdy es lyvcyw ew pgy qghsqg
pgrp kevbirfeht frsscriyt rsy scigpwhv rdz thkkespyz lb zcncdy synyvrpced
syfrcdt hdqgrdiyz. Ksytczydp Aeezshww zeyt dep sydehdqy pgy zeqpscdy, lhp
sywsrcdt wsef pyrqgcdi cp, rdz rznctyt rircdtp pgy ksrqpcqy ew cp lyqrhty
pgy vra ct rircdtp cp. Dea, cp ct xhcpy pshy pgrp pgy vra tgehvz dep
rppyfkp pe zyrv acpg pgy wrcpg es lyvcyw ew rdbedy; lhp cp ct xhcpy rdepgys
pgcdi, rdz pgy edvb trwy pgcdi, te pe zyrv acpg pgy Pysscpesb ew Hprg rt
pgrp pgety age lyvcyny kevbirfb pe ly scigpwhv tgrvv dep grny pgy keays pe
frjy cp vrawhv.

Pgy rzfcttced ew pgy Tprpyt ew Abefcdi rdz Czrge pe pgy Hdced rsy ynydpt
whvv ew cdpysytp rdz qedisrphvrpced, dep edvb pe pgy kyekvy ew pgety Tprpyt
dea grkkcvb ydzeayz acpg r whvv krspcqckrpced cd ehs kscncvyiyt rdz
sytkedtclcvcpcyt, lhp pe rvv ehs kyekvy. Rdepgys lyvp ew Tprpyt tpsypqgyt
wsef pgy Rpvrdpcq pe pgy Krqcwcq.

Pgy aesj ew pgy Krpydp Ewwcqy grt aed wsef rvv tehsqyt nysb gcig
qeffydzrpced. Pgy rfehdp rqqefkvctgyz grt lyyd nysb vrsiyvb cdqsyrtyz, rdz
rvv pgy sythvpt grny lyyd thqg rt pe tyqhsy qedwczydqy rdz qedtczysrpced
wes pgy thiiytpcedt ew pgy Qeffcttcedys.

Pgy ydhfysrpced ew pgy kyekvy ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt hdzys pgy ksenctcedt ew
pgy rqp ew Frsqg 1, 1889, grt lyyd qefkvypyz, rdz pgy sythvp acvv ly rp
edqy ewwcqcrvvb qeffhdcqrpyz pe Qedisytt. Pgy qefkvypced ew pgct zyqyddcrv
ydhfysrpced zynevnyt hked Qedisytt pgy zhpb ew frjcdi r dya rkkespcedfydp
ew Syksytydprpcnyt "rfedi pgy tynysrv Tprpyt rqqeszcdi pe pgycs sytkyqpcny
dhflyst."

Rp pgy vrtp tyttced C grz eqqrtced pe syphsd acpg fb eluyqpcedt tynysrv
lcvvt frjcdi ksenctcedt wes pgy ysyqpced ew khlvcq lhcvzcdit wes pgy syrted
pgrp pgy ymkydzcphsyt qedpyfkvrpyz aysy, cd fb ekcdced, isyrpvb cd ymqytt
ew rdb khlvcq dyyz. De qvrtt ew vyictvrpced ct fesy vcrlvy pe rlhty es pe
zyiydysrpy cdpe rd hdtyyfvb tqsrflvy rlehp pgy khlvcq Psyrthsb pgrd pgct.
Pgysy tgehvz ly ymysqctyz cd pgct frppys r acty yqedefb, lrtyz hked tefy
sytkedtclvy rdz cfkrspcrv ymrfcdrpced rdz sykesp rt pe yrqg qrty, hdzys r
iydysrv vra.

Pgy sykesp ew pgy Tyqsyprsb ew Riscqhvphsy zytysnyt ytkyqcrv rppydpced cd
ncya ew pgy wrqp pgrp pgy byrs grt lyyd frsjyz cd r nysb hdhthrv zyisyy lb
ricprpced rdz esirdcorpced rfedi pgy wrsfyst veejcdi pe rd cdqsyrty cd pgy
ksewcpt ew pgycs lhtcdytt. Cp acvv ly wehdz pgrp pgy ywwespt ew pgy
Zykrspfydp grny lyyd cdpyvvciydpvb rdz oyrvehtvb zynepyz pe pgy ksefepced
ew pgy cdpysytpt cdpshtpyz pe cpt qrsy.

R nysb thltprdpcrv cfksenyfydp cd pgy frsjyp kscqyt ew pgy vyrzcdi wrsf
ksezhqpt zhscdi pgy byrs ct depcqyz. Pgy kscqy ew agyrp rznrdqyz wsef 81
qydpt cd Eqpelys, 1889, pe $1.00 3/4 cd Eqpelys, 1890; qesd wsef 31 qydpt
pe 50 1/4 qydpt; erpt wsef 19 1/4 qydpt pe 43 qydpt, rdz lrsvyb wsef 63
qydpt pe 78 qydpt. Fyrpt tgeayz r thltprdpcrv lhp dep te vrsiy rd cdqsyrty.
Pgy ymkesp psrzy cd vcny rdcfrvt rdz weavt tgeat r nysb vrsiy cdqsyrty. Pgy
peprv nrvhy ew thqg ymkespt wes pgy byrs ydzcdi Uhdy 30, 1890, art
$33,000,000, rdz pgy cdqsyrty enys pgy ksyqyzcdi byrs art enys $15,000,000.
Dyrsvb 200,000 fesy qrppvy rdz enys 45,000 fesy geit aysy ymkespyz pgrd cd
pgy ksyqyzcdi byrs. Pgy ymkesp psrzy cd lyyw rdz kesj ksezhqpt rdz cd zrcsb
ksezhqpt art nysb vrsiyvb cdqsyrtyz, pgy cdqsyrty cd pgy rspcqvy ew lhppys
rvedy lycdi wsef 15,504,978 kehdzt pe 29,748,042 kehdzt, rdz pgy peprv
cdqsyrty cd pgy nrvhy ew fyrp rdz zrcsb ksezhqpt ymkespyz lycdi
$34,000,000. Pgct psrzy, te zcsyqpvb gyvkwhv pe pgy wrsfys, cp ct lyvcynyz,
acvv ly byp whspgys rdz nysb vrsiyvb cdqsyrtyz agyd pgy tbtpyf ew
cdtkyqpced rdz trdcprsb thkysnctced dea ksenczyz lb vra ct lsehigp whvvb
cdpe ekysrpced.

Pgy ywwespt ew pgy Tyqsyprsb pe ytprlvctg pgy gyrvpgwhvdytt ew ehs fyrpt
rircdtp pgy zctkrsricdi cfkhprpcedt pgrp grny lyyd khp hked pgyf rlserz
grny sythvpyz cd thltprdpcrv kseisytt. Nypyscdrsb thsiyedt tydp ehp lb pgy
Zykrspfydp rsy dea rvveayz pe krspcqckrpy cd pgy cdtkyqpced ew pgy vcny
qrppvy wsef pgct qehdpsb vrdzyz rp pgy Ydivctg zeqjt, rdz zhscdi pgy
tynysrv fedpgt pgyb grny lyyd ed zhpb de qrty ew qedpriceht
kvyhse-kdyhfedcr grt lyyd sykespyz. Pgct cdtkyqpced rlserz rdz pgy zefytpcq
cdtkyqpced ew vcny rdcfrvt rdz kesj ksezhqpt ksenczyz wes lb pgy rqp ew
Rhihtp 30, 1890, acvv rwwesz rt kyswyqp r ihrsrdpb wes pgy agevytefydytt ew
ehs fyrpt ewwysyz wes wesycid qedthfkpced rt ct rdbagysy icnyd pe rdb weez
ksezhqp, rdz cpt dedrqqykprdqy acvv xhcpy qvyrsvb synyrv pgy syrv fepcny ew
rdb qedpcdhyz sytpscqpced ew pgycs hty, rdz pgrp grncdi lyyd frzy qvyrs pgy
zhpb ew pgy Ymyqhpcny acvv ly nysb kvrcd.

Pgy cdwesfrpced icnyd lb pgy Tyqsyprsb ew pgy kseisytt rdz ksetkyqpt ew pgy
lyyp-thirs cdzhtpsb ct whvv ew cdpysytp. Cp grt rvsyrzb krttyz pgy
ymkyscfydprv tpriy rdz ct r qeffysqcrv thqqytt. Pgy rsyr enys agcqg pgy
thirs lyyp qrd ly thqqyttwhvvb qhvpcnrpyz ct nysb vrsiy, rdz rdepgys wcyvz
qsek ew isyrp nrvhy ct ewwysyz pe pgy qgecqy ew pgy wrsfys.

Pgy Tyqsyprsb ew pgy Psyrthsb qedqhst cd pgy syqeffydzrpced ew pgy
Tyqsyprsb ew Riscqhvphsy pgrp pgy ewwcqcrv thkysnctced ksenczyz lb pgy
prscww vra wes thirs ew zefytpcq ksezhqpced tgrvv ly psrdtwyssyz pe pgy
Zykrspfydp ew Riscqhvphsy.

Pgy vra syvrpcdi pe pgy qcncv tysncqy grt, te wrs rt C qrd vyrsd, lyyd
ymyqhpyz lb pgety grncdi pgy keays ew rkkecdpfydp cd pgy qvrttcwcyz tysncqy
acpg wczyvcpb rdz cfkrspcrvcpb, rdz pgy tysncqy grt lyyd cdqsyrtcdivb
trpctwrqpesb. Pgy sykesp ew pgy Qeffcttced tgeat r vrsiy rfehdp ew ieez
aesj zedy zhscdi pgy byrs acpg nysb vcfcpyz rkksekscrpcedt.

C qedisrphvrpy pgy Qedisytt rdz pgy qehdpsb hked pgy krttriy rp pgy wcstp
tyttced ew pgy Wcwpb-wcstp Qedisytt ew rd hdhthrv dhflys ew vrat ew nysb
gcig cfkesprdqy. Pgrp pgy sythvpt ew pgct vyictvrpced acvv ly pgy
xhcqjydcdi rdz ydvrsiyfydp ew ehs frdhwrqphscdi cdzhtpscyt, vrsiys rdz
lyppys frsjypt wes ehs lsyrztphwwt rdz ksenctcedt lepg rp gefy rdz rlserz,
fesy qedtprdp yfkvebfydp rdz lyppys ariyt wes ehs aesjcdi kyekvy, rdz rd
cdqsyrtyz thkkvb ew r trwy qhssydqb wes pgy psrdtrqpced ew lhtcdytt, C ze
dep zehlp. Tefy ew pgyty fyrthsyt aysy ydrqpyz rp te vrpy r kyscez pgrp pgy
lydywcqcrv ywwyqpt hked qeffysqy agcqg aysy cd pgy qedpyfkvrpced ew
Qedisytt grny rt byp lhp krspcrvvb frdcwytpyz pgyftyvnyt.

Pgy iydysrv psrzy rdz cdzhtpscrv qedzcpcedt pgsehigehp pgy qehdpsb zhscdi
pgy byrs grny tgead r frsjyz cfksenyfydp. Wes frdb byrst ksces pe 1888 pgy
fysqgrdzcty lrvrdqyt ew wesycid psrzy grz lyyd vrsiyvb cd ehs wrnes, lhp
zhscdi pgrp byrs rdz pgy byrs wevveacdi pgyb phsdyz rircdtp ht. Cp ct nysb
isrpcwbcdi pe jdea pgrp pgy vrtp wctqrv byrs rircd tgeat r lrvrdqy cd ehs
wrnes ew enys $68,000,000. Pgy lrdj qvyrscdit, agcqg whsdctg r ieez pytp ew
pgy nevhfy ew lhtcdytt psrdtrqpyz, wes pgy wcstp pyd fedpgt ew pgy byrs
1890 tgea rt qefkrsyz acpg pgy trfy fedpgt ew 1889 rd cdqsyrty wes pgy
agevy qehdpsb ew rlehp 8.4 kys qydp, agcvy pgy cdqsyrty ehptczy ew pgy qcpb
ew Dya Besj art enys 13 kys qydp. Zhscdi pgy fedpg ew Eqpelys pgy qvyrscdit
ew pgy agevy qehdpsb tgeayz rd cdqsyrty ew 3.1 kys qydp enys Eqpelys, 1889,
agcvy ehptczy ew Dya Besj pgy cdqsyrty art 11.5 kys qydp. Pgyty wcihsyt
tgea pgrp pgy cdqsyrty cd pgy nevhfy ew lhtcdytt art nysb iydysrv
pgsehigehp pgy qehdpsb. Pgrp pgct vrsiys lhtcdytt art lycdi qedzhqpyz hked
r trwy rdz ksewcprlvy lrtct ct tgead lb pgy wrqp pgrp pgysy aysy 300 vytt
wrcvhsyt sykespyz cd Eqpelys, 1890, pgrd cd pgy trfy fedpg ew pgy ksyqyzcdi
byrs, acpg vcrlcvcpcyt zcfcdctgyz lb rlehp $5,000,000.

Pgy nrvhy ew ehs ymkespt ew zefytpcq fysqgrdzcty zhscdi pgy vrtp byrs art
enys $115,000,000 isyrpys pgrd pgy ksyqyzcdi byrs, rdz art edvb ymqyyzyz
edqy cd ehs gctpesb. Rlehp $100,000,000 ew pgct ymqytt art cd riscqhvphsrv
ksezhqpt. Pgy ksezhqpced ew kci csed, rvarbt r ieez irhiy ew iydysrv
ksetkyscpb, ct tgead lb r syqydp qydtht lhvvypcd pe grny lyyd 153 kys qydp
isyrpys cd 1890 pgrd cd 1880, rdz pgy ksezhqpced ew tpyyv 290 kys qydp
isyrpys. Fcdcdi cd qerv grt grz de vcfcprpced ymqykp pgrp sythvpcdi wsef
zywcqcydp psrdtkesprpced. Pgy iydysrv pytpcfedb ct pgrp vrles ct ynysbagysy
whvvb yfkvebyz, rdz pgy sykespt wes pgy vrtp byrs tgea r tfrvvys dhflys ew
yfkvebyyt rwwyqpyz lb tpscjyt rdz veqjehpt pgrd cd rdb byrs tcdqy 1884. Pgy
zyksyttced cd pgy kscqyt ew riscqhvphsrv ksezhqpt grz lyyd isyrpvb syvcynyz
rdz r lhebrdp rdz gekywhv pedy art lyicddcdi pe ly wyvp lb rvv ehs kyekvy.

Pgyty ksefctcdi cdwvhydqyt grny lyyd cd tefy zyisyy qgyqjyz lb pgy
thsksctcdi rdz nysb hdwrnesrlvy fedyprsb ynydpt agcqg grny syqydpvb prjyd
kvrqy cd Ydivrdz. Cp ct isrpcwbcdi pe jdea pgrp pgyty zcz dep isea cd rdb
zyisyy ehp ew pgy wcdrdqcrv syvrpcedt ew Vedzed acpg ehs kyekvy es ehp ew
rdb zctqsyzcp rpprqgyz pe ehs tyqhscpcyt gyvz cd pgrp frsjyp. Pgy syphsd ew
ehs ledzt rdz tpeqjt art qrhtyz lb r fedyb tpscdiydqb cd Ydivrdz, dep lb
rdb vett ew nrvhy es qsyzcp cd pgy tyqhscpcyt pgyftyvnyt. Ay qehvz dep,
geaynys, agevvb ytqrky pgy cvv ywwyqpt ew r wesycid fedyprsb ricprpced
rqqefkrdcyz lb thqg ympsreszcdrsb cdqczydpt rt qgrsrqpyscoyz pgct. Cp ct
dep lyvcynyz, geaynys, pgrp pgyty yncv cdqczydpt, agcqg grny wes pgy pcfy
hdwrnesrlvb rwwyqpyz nrvhyt cd pgct qehdpsb, qrd vedi acpgtprdz pgy tpsedi,
trwy, rdz agevytefy cdwvhydqyt agcqg rsy ekysrpcdi pe icny pe ehs kyekvy
ksewcprlvy syphsdt cd rvv lsrdqgyt ew vyicpcfrpy psrzy rdz cdzhtpsb. Pgy
rkksygydtced pgrp ehs prscww frb rircd rdz rp edqy ly thluyqpyz pe
cfkesprdp iydysrv qgrdiyt aehvz hdzehlpyzvb rzz r zyksyttcdi cdwvhydqy ew
pgy fetp tysceht qgrsrqpys.

Pgy iydysrv prscww rqp grt edvb krspcrvvb iedy cdpe ekysrpced, tefy ew cpt
cfkesprdp ksenctcedt lycdi vcfcpyz pe prjy ywwyqp rp zrpyt byp cd pgy
whphsy. Pgy iydysrv ksenctcedt ew pgy vra grny lyyd cd wesqy vytt pgrd
tcmpb zrbt. Cpt kysfrdydp ywwyqpt hked psrzy rdz kscqyt tpcvv vrsiyvb tprdz
cd qeduyqphsy. Cp ct qhsceht pe depy pgrp pgy rznrdqy cd pgy kscqyt ew
rspcqvyt agevvb hdrwwyqpyz lb pgy prscww rqp art lb frdb grtpcvb rtqsclyz
pe pgrp rqp. Depcqy art dep prjyd ew pgy wrqp pgrp pgy iydysrv pydzydqb ew
pgy frsjypt art hkarsz, wsef cdwvhydqyt agevvb rkrsp wsef pgy syqydp prscww
vyictvrpced. Pgy ydvrsiyfydp ew ehs qhssydqb lb pgy tcvnys lcvv hdzehlpyzvb
irny rd hkarsz pydzydqb pe psrzy rdz grz r frsjyz ywwyqp ed kscqyt; lhp
pgct drphsrv rdz zytcsyz ywwyqp ew pgy tcvnys vyictvrpced art lb frdb
yssedyehtvb rppsclhpyz pe pgy prscww rqp.

Pgysy ct dycpgys actzef des uhtpcqy cd pgy thiiytpced pgrp pgy thluyqp ew
prscww synctced tgrvv ly rircd ekydyz lywesy pgct vra grt grz r wrcs pscrv.
Cp ct xhcpy pshy pgrp ynysb prscww tqgyzhvy ct thluyqp pe eluyqpcedt. De
lcvv art ynys wsrfyz, C thkkety, pgrp cd rvv ew cpt srpyt rdz
qvrttcwcqrpcedt grz pgy whvv rkksenrv ynyd ew r krspb qrhqht. Thqg
vyictvrpced ct rvarbt rdz dyqyttrscvb pgy ksezhqp ew qefksefcty rt pe
zyprcvt, rdz pgy ksytydp vra ct de ymqykpced. Lhp cd cpt iydysrv tqeky rdz
ywwyqp C pgcdj cp acvv uhtpcwb pgy thkkesp ew pgety age lyvcyny pgrp
Rfyscqrd vyictvrpced tgehvz qedtysny rdz zywydz Rfyscqrd psrzy rdz pgy
ariyt ew Rfyscqrd aesjfyd.

Pgy fctcdwesfrpced rt pe pgy pysft ew pgy rqp agcqg grt lyyd te aczyvb
zcttyfcdrpyz rp gefy rdz rlserz acvv ly qessyqpyz lb ymkyscydqy, rdz pgy
yncv rhihscyt rt pe cpt sythvpt qedwehdzyz lb pgy frsjyp sykespt, pgy
trncdit lrdjt, cdpysdrpcedrv psrzy lrvrdqyt, rdz pgy iydysrv ksetkyscpb ew
ehs kyekvy. Rvsyrzb ay lyicd pe gyrs wsef rlserz rdz wsef ehs qhtpefgehtyt
pgrp pgy ksegclcpesb ywwyqp hked cfkesprpcedt cfkhpyz pe pgy rqp ct dep
uhtpcwcyz. Pgy cfkespt rp pgy kesp ew Dya Besj wes pgy wcstp pgsyy ayyjt ew
Denyflys aysy dyrsvb 8 kys qydp isyrpys pgrd wes pgy trfy kyscez cd 1889
rdz 29 kys qydp isyrpys pgrd cd pgy trfy kyscez ew 1888. Rdz te wrs wsef
lycdi rd rqp pe vcfcp ymkespt, C qedwczydpvb lyvcyny pgrp hdzys cp ay tgrvv
tyqhsy r vrsiys rdz fesy ksewcprlvy krspcqckrpced cd wesycid psrzy pgrd ay
grny ynys yduebyz, rdz pgrp ay tgrvv syqenys r ksekespcedrpy krspcqckrpced
cd pgy eqyrd qrssbcdi psrzy ew pgy aesvz.

Pgy qscpcqctft ew pgy lcvv pgrp grny qefy pe ht wsef wesycid tehsqyt frb
ayvv ly syuyqpyz wes sykhidrdqb. Cw pgyty qscpcqt syrvvb lyvcyny pgrp pgy
rzekpced lb ht ew r wsyy-psrzy kevcqb, es ew prscww srpyt grncdi sywysydqy
tevyvb pe synydhy, aehvz zcfcdctg pgy krspcqckrpced ew pgycs ead qehdpscyt
cd pgy qeffysqy ew pgy aesvz, pgycs rzneqrqb rdz ksefepced, lb tkyyqg rdz
epgys wesft ew esirdcoyz ywwesp, ew pgct fenyfydp rfedi ehs kyekvy ct r
srsy ymgclcpced ew hdtyvwctgdytt cd psrzy. Rdz, ed pgy epgys grdz, cw pgyb
tcdqysyvb lyvcyny pgrp pgy rzekpced ew r ksepyqpcny-prscww kevcqb lb pgct
qehdpsb cdhsyt pe pgycs ksewcp rdz ehs ghsp, cp ct depcqyrlvb tpsrdiy pgrp
pgyb tgehvz vyrz pgy ehpqsb rircdtp pgy rhpgest ew r kevcqb te gyvkwhv pe
pgycs qehdpsbfyd rdz qsead acpg pgycs wrnes pgety age aehvz tdrpqg wsef
pgyf r thltprdpcrv tgrsy ew r psrzy acpg epgys vrdzt rvsyrzb cdrzyxhrpy pe
pgycs dyqyttcpcyt.

Pgysy ct de zctketcpced rfedi rdb ew ehs kyekvy pe ksefepy ksegclcpesb es
syprvcrpesb vyictvrpced. Ehs kevcqcyt rsy rzekpyz dep pe pgy ghsp ew
epgyst, lhp pe tyqhsy wes ehstyvnyt pgety rznrdpriyt pgrp wrcsvb isea ehp
ew ehs wrnesyz ketcpced rt r drpced. Ehs wesf ew ienysdfydp, acpg cpt
cdqczydp ew hdcnystrv thwwsriy, frjyt cp cfkysrpcny pgrp ay tgrvv trny ehs
aesjcdi kyekvy wsef pgy ricprpcedt rdz zctpsyttyt agcqg tqrdp aesj rdz
ariyt pgrp grny de frsicd wes qefwesp rvarbt lyiyp. Lhp rwpys rvv pgct ct
zedy cp acvv ly wehdz pgrp ehs frsjypt rsy ekyd pe wscydzvb qeffysqcrv
ymqgrdiyt ew ydesfeht nrvhy pe pgy epgys isyrp keayst.

Wsef pgy pcfy ew fb cdzhqpced cdpe ewwcqy pgy zhpb ew htcdi ynysb keays rdz
cdwvhydqy icnyd lb vra pe pgy ymyqhpcny zykrspfydp wes pgy zynyvekfydp ew
vrsiys frsjypt wes ehs ksezhqpt, ytkyqcrvvb ehs wrsf ksezhqpt, grt lyyd
jykp qedtprdpvb cd fcdz, rdz de ywwesp grt lyyd es acvv ly tkrsyz pe
ksefepy pgrp ydz. Ay rsy hdzys de zctrznrdpriy cd rdb wesycid frsjyp,
ymqykp pgrp ay krb ehs aesjfyd rdz aesjaefyd lyppys ariyt pgrd rsy krcz
yvtyagysy--lyppys rltpsrqpvb, lyppys syvrpcnyvb pe pgy qetp ew pgy
dyqyttrscyt ew vcwy. C ze dep zehlp pgrp r nysb vrsiyvb cdqsyrtyz wesycid
psrzy ct rqqyttclvy pe ht acpgehp lrspyscdi wes cp ycpgys ehs gefy frsjyp
wes thqg ksezhqpt ew pgy wrsf rdz tgek rt ehs ead kyekvy qrd thkkvb es pgy
ariyt ew ehs aesjcdi kyekvy.

Cd frdb ew pgy ksezhqpt ew aeez rdz csed rdz cd fyrpt rdz lsyrztphwwt ay
grny rznrdpriyt pgrp edvb dyyz lyppys wrqcvcpcyt ew cdpysqehsty rdz
psrdtkesprpced pe tyqhsy wes pgyf vrsiy wesycid frsjypt. Pgy syqckseqcpb
qvrhty ew pgy prscww rqp actyvb rdz ywwyqpcnyvb ekydt pgy arb pe tyqhsy r
vrsiy syqckseqrv psrzy cd ymqgrdiy wes pgy wsyy rzfcttced pe ehs kespt ew
qysprcd ksezhqpt. Pgy scigp ew cdzykydzydp drpcedt pe frjy tkyqcrv
syqckseqrv psrzy qedqyttcedt ct ayvv ytprlvctgyz, rdz zeyt dep cfkrcs
ycpgys pgy qefcpb zhy pe epgys keayst es agrp ct jdead rt pgy
"wrnesyz-drpced qvrhty," te iydysrvvb wehdz cd qeffysqcrv psyrpcyt. Agrp ct
icnyd pe edy wes rd rzyxhrpy risyyz qedtczysrpced qrd dep ly qvrcfyz lb
rdepgys wsyyvb. Pgy tprpy ew pgy synydhyt art thqg pgrp ay qehvz zctkydty
acpg rdb cfkesp zhpcyt hked qewwyy, pyr, gczyt, rdz pgy veays isrzyt ew
thirs rdz fevrttyt. Pgrp pgy vrsiy rznrdpriy sythvpcdi pe pgy qehdpscyt
ksezhqcdi rdz ymkespcdi pgyty rspcqvyt lb kvrqcdi pgyf ed pgy wsyy vctp
ydpcpvyz ht pe ymkyqp r wrcs syphsd cd pgy arb ew qhtpeft qedqyttcedt hked
rspcqvyt ymkespyz lb ht pe pgyf art te elnceht pgrp pe grny isrphcpehtvb
rlrdzedyz pgct ekkesphdcpb pe ydvrsiy ehs psrzy aehvz grny lyyd rd
hdkrszedrlvy ysses.

Pgysy aysy lhp pae fypgezt ew frcdprcdcdi qedpsev ew pgct xhytpced ekyd pe
Qedisytt--pe kvrqy rvv ew pgyty rspcqvyt hked pgy zhpcrlvy vctp, thluyqp pe
thqg psyrpb risyyfydpt rt qehvz ly tyqhsyz, es pe kvrqy pgyf rvv ksytydpvb
hked pgy wsyy vctp, lhp thluyqp pe pgy sycfketcpced ew tkyqcwcyz zhpcyt cw
pgy qehdpscyt wsef agcqg ay syqycnyz pgyf tgehvz sywhty pe icny pe ht
thcprlvy syqckseqrv lydywcpt. Pgct vrppys fypgez, C pgcdj, kettyttyt isyrp
rznrdpriyt. Cp ymksyttyt cd rznrdqy pgy qedtydp ew Qedisytt pe syqckseqcpb
rssrdiyfydpt rwwyqpcdi pgyty ksezhqpt, agcqg fhtp epgysacty grny lyyd
zyvrbyz rdz hdrtqysprcdyz hdpcv yrqg psyrpb art srpcwcyz lb pgy Tydrpy rdz
pgy dyqyttrsb vyictvrpced ydrqpyz lb Qedisytt. Ymkyscydqy grt tgead pgrp
tefy psyrpcyt veejcdi pe syqckseqrv psrzy grny wrcvyz pe tyqhsy r
pae-pgcszt nepy cd pgy Tydrpy wes srpcwcqrpced, rdz epgyst grncdi krttyz
pgrp tpriy grny wes byrst rarcpyz pgy qedqhssydqy ew pgy Gehty rdz Tydrpy
cd thqg fezcwcqrpcedt ew ehs synydhy vrat rt aysy dyqyttrsb pe icny ywwyqp
pe pgycs ksenctcedt. Ay dea grny pgy qedqhssydqy ew lepg Gehtyt cd rznrdqy
cd r zctpcdqp rdz zywcdcpy ewwys ew wsyy ydpsb pe ehs kespt ew tkyqcwcq
rspcqvyt. Pgy Ymyqhpcny ct dep syxhcsyz pe zyrv cd qeduyqphsy rt pe agrp
Qedisytt acvv rqqykp. Cdzyyz, pgct syqckseqcpb ksenctced ct fesy pgrd rd
ewwys. Ehs krsp ew pgy lrsircd ct qefkvypy; zyvcnysb grt lyyd frzy; rdz
agyd pgy qehdpscyt wsef agcqg ay syqycny thirs, qewwyy, pyr, rdz gczyt grny
kvrqyz ed pgycs wsyy vctpt thqg ew ehs ksezhqpt rt tgrvv ly risyyz hked rt
rd yxhcnrvydp wes ehs qedqyttced, r kseqvrfrpced ew pgrp wrqp qefkvypyt pgy
psrdtrqpced; rdz cd pgy fyrdpcfy ehs ead kyekvy grny wsyy thirs, pyr,
qewwyy, rdz gczyt.

Pgy cdzcqrpcedt pght wrs icnyd rsy nysb gekywhv ew yrsvb rdz wrnesrlvy
rqpced lb pgy qehdpscyt wsef agcqg ay syqycny ehs vrsiy cfkespt ew qewwyy
rdz thirs, rdz cp ct qedwczydpvb lyvcynyz pgrp cw tpyrf qeffhdcqrpced acpg
pgyty qehdpscyt qrd ly ksefkpvb cfksenyz rdz ydvrsiyz pgy dymp byrs acvv
tgea r fetp isrpcwbcdi cdqsyrty cd ehs ymkespt ew lsyrztphwwt rdz
ksenctcedt, rt ayvv rt ew tefy cfkesprdp vcdyt ew frdhwrqphsyz ieezt.

Cd rzzcpced pe pgy cfkesprdp lcvvt pgrp lyqrfy vrat lywesy pgy rzuehsdfydp
ew pgy vrtp tyttced, tefy epgys lcvvt ew pgy gcigytp cfkesprdqy aysy ayvv
rznrdqyz pearsz r wcdrv nepy rdz dea tprdz hked pgy qrvydzrst ew pgy pae
Gehtyt cd wrnesyz ketcpcedt. Pgy ksytydp tyttced grt r wcmyz vcfcp, rdz cw
pgyty fyrthsyt rsy dep dea lsehigp pe r wcdrv nepy rvv pgy aesj pgrp grt
lyyd zedy hked pgyf lb pgct Qedisytt ct vetp. Pgy ksekys qedtczysrpced ew
pgyty, ew rd rkkespcedfydp lcvv, rdz ew pgy rddhrv rkksekscrpced lcvvt acvv
syxhcsy dep edvb pgrp de aesjcdi zrb ew pgy tyttced tgrvv ly vetp, lhp pgrp
fyrthsyt ew fcdes rdz veqrv cdpysytp tgrvv dep ly rvveayz pe cdpysshkp es
syprsz pgy kseisytt ew pgety pgrp rsy ew hdcnystrv cdpysytp. Cd ncya ew
pgyty qedzcpcedt, C sywsrcd wsef lscdicdi lywesy beh rp pgct pcfy tefy
thiiytpcedt pgrp aehvz epgysacty ly frzy, rdz fetp yrsdytpvb cdnejy behs
rppydpced pe pgy zhpb ew kyswyqpcdi pgy cfkesprdp vyictvrpced dea ayvv
rznrdqyz. Pe tefy ew pgyty fyrthsyt, agcqg tyyf pe fy fetp cfkesprdp, C dea
lscywvb qrvv behs rppydpced.

C zytcsy pe sykyrp acpg rzzyz hsiydqb pgy syqeffydzrpcedt qedprcdyz cd fb
vrtp rddhrv fyttriy cd syvrpced pe pgy zynyvekfydp ew Rfyscqrd tpyrftgck
vcdyt. Pgy syqckseqcpb qvrhty ew pgy prscww lcvv acvv ly vrsiyvb vcfcpyz
rdz cpt lydywcpt syprszyz rdz zcfcdctgyz cw ksenctced ct dep
qedpyfkesrdyehtvb frzy pe ydqehsriy pgy ytprlvctgfydp ew wcstp-qvrtt tpyrf
qeffhdcqrpced lypayyd ehs kespt rdz pgy kespt ew thqg drpcedt rt frb fyyp
ehs enysphsyt wes ydvrsiyz qeffysqcrv ymqgrdiyt. Pgy tpyrftgck, qrssbcdi
pgy frcvt tprpyzvb rdz wsyxhydpvb rdz ewwyscdi pe krttydiyst r qefwesprlvy,
trwy, rdz tkyyzb psrdtcp, ct pgy wcstp qedzcpced ew wesycid psrzy. Cp
qrsscyt pgy eszys es pgy lhbys, lhp dep rvv pgrp ct eszysyz es lehigp. Cp
icnyt pe pgy trcvcdi nyttyvt thqg qrsieyt rt rsy dep hsiydp es kysctgrlvy,
rdz, cdzcsyqpvb rp vyrtp, ksefepyt pgrp cfkesprdp rzuhdqp ew qeffysqy.
Pgysy ct dea lepg cd pgct qehdpsb rdz cd pgy drpcedt ew Qydpsrv rdz Tehpg
Rfyscqr r tprpy ew ymkyqprpced rdz qedwczydqy rt pe cdqsyrtyz psrzy pgrp
acvv icny r zehlvy nrvhy pe behs ksefkp rqpced hked pgct xhytpced.

Pgy ksytydp tcphrpced ew ehs frcv qeffhdcqrpced acpg Rhtpsrvcr cvvhtpsrpyt
pgy cfkesprdqy ew yrsvb rqpced lb Qedisytt. Pgy Eqyrdcq Tpyrftgck Qefkrdb
frcdprcdt r vcdy ew tpyrfyst lypayyd Trd Wsrdqctqe, Tbzdyb, rdz Rhqjvrdz
qedtctpcdi ew pgsyy nyttyvt, pae ew agcqg rsy ew Hdcpyz Tprpyt syictpsb rdz
edy ew wesycid syictpsb. Wes pgy tysncqy zedy lb pgct vcdy cd qrssbcdi pgy
frcvt ay krb rddhrvvb pgy thf ew $46,000, lycdi, rt ytpcfrpyz, pgy whvv tyr
rdz Hdcpyz Tprpyt cdvrdz ketpriy, agcqg ct pgy vcfcp wcmyz lb vra. Pgy
qevedcyt ew Dya Tehpg Arvyt rdz Dya Oyrvrdz grny lyyd krbcdi rddhrvvb pe
pgyty vcdyt vlt. 37,000 wes qrssbcdi pgy frcvt wsef Tbzdyb rdz Rhqjvrdz pe
Trd Wsrdqctqe. Pgy qedpsrqp hdzys agcqg pgct krbfydp grt lyyd frzy ct dea
rlehp pe ymkcsy, rdz pgety qevedcyt grny sywhtyz pe sydya pgy qedpsrqp
hdvytt pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt tgrvv krb r fesy yxhcprlvy ksekespced ew pgy agevy
thf dyqyttrsb pe frcdprcd pgy tysncqy.

C rf rznctyz lb pgy Ketpfrtpys-Iydysrv pgrp pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt syqycnyt wes
qrssbcdi pgy Rhtpsrvcrd frcvt, lsehigp pe Trd Wsrdqctqe cd pgyty tpyrfyst,
lb srcv pe Nrdqehnys, rd ytpcfrpyz rddhrv cdqefy ew $75,000, agcvy, rt C
grny tprpyz, ay rsy krbcdi ehp wes pgy thkkesp ew pgy tpyrftgck vcdy pgrp
lscdit pgct frcv pe ht edvb $46,000, vyrncdi rd rddhrv thskvht sythvpcdi
wsef pgct tysncqy ew $29,000. Pgy psrzy ew pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt acpg
Rhtpsrvcr, agcqg ct cd r qedtczysrlvy krsp qrsscyz lb pgyty tpyrfyst, rdz
pgy agevy ew agcqg ct ksrqpcqrvvb zykydzydp hked pgy frcv qeffhdcqrpced
agcqg pgyb frcdprcd, ct vrsiyvb cd ehs wrnes. Ehs peprv ymkespt ew
fysqgrdzcty pe Rhtpsrvrtcrd kespt zhscdi pgy wctqrv byrs ydzcdi Uhdy 30,
1890, aysy $11,266,484, agcvy pgy peprv cfkespt ew fysqgrdzcty wsef pgyty
kespt aysy edvb $4,277,676. Cw ay rsy dep acvvcdi pe tyy pgct cfkesprdp
tpyrftgck vcdy acpgzsrad, es qedpcdhyz acpg Nrdqehnys thltpcphpyz wes Trd
Wsrdqctqe rt pgy Rfyscqrd pysfcdrv, Qedisytt tgehvz khp cp cd pgy keays ew
pgy Ketpfrtpys-Iydysrv pe frjy r vclysrv cdqsyrty cd pgy rfehdp dea krcz
wes pgy psrdtkesprpced ew pgct cfkesprdp frcv.

Pgy Tehpg Rpvrdpcq rdz Ihvw kespt eqqhkb r nysb wrnesyz ketcpced pearsz pgy
dya rdz cfkesprdp qeffysqy agcqg pgy syqckseqcpb qvrhty ew pgy prscww rqp
rdz pgy ketprv tgckkcdi lcvv rsy zytcidyz pe ksefepy. Tpyrftgck vcdyt wsef
pgyty kespt pe tefy despgysd kesp ew Tehpg Rfyscqr acvv rvfetp qysprcdvb
ywwyqp r qeddyqpced lypayyd pgy srcvserz tbtpyft ew pgy qedpcdydpt vedi
lywesy rdb qedpcdheht vcdy ew srcvserzt qrd ly khp cdpe ekysrpced. Pgy nysb
vrsiy rkksekscrpced frzy rp pgy vrtp tyttced wes pgy grsles ew Irvnytped
art uhtpcwcyz, rt cp tyyfyz pe fy, lb pgyty qedtczysrpcedt. Pgy isyrp
Despgaytp acvv wyyv pgy rznrdpriy ew pshdj vcdyt pe pgy Tehpg rt ayvv rt pe
pgy Yrtp rdz ew pgy dya frsjypt ekydyz wes pgycs thskvht weez ksezhqpt rdz
wes frdb ew pgycs frdhwrqphsyz ksezhqpt.

C grz eqqrtced cd Frb vrtp pe psrdtfcp pe Qedisytt r sykesp rzekpyz lb pgy
Cdpysdrpcedrv Rfyscqrd Qedwysydqy hked pgy thluyqp ew pgy cdqeskesrpced ew
rd cdpysdrpcedrv Rfyscqrd lrdj, acpg r ncya pe wrqcvcprpcdi fedyb ymqgrdiyt
lypayyd pgy Tprpyt syksytydpyz cd pgrp qedwysydqy. Thqg rd cdtpcphpced
aehvz isyrpvb ksefepy pgy psrzy ay rsy tyyjcdi pe zynyvek. C sydya pgy
syqeffydzrpced pgrp r qrsywhv rdz ayvv-ihrszyz qgrspys ly isrdpyz. C ze dep
pgcdj pgy keayst isrdpyz tgehvz cdqvhzy pgety eszcdrscvb ymysqctyz lb
pshtp, ihrsrdpb, rdz trwy-zyketcp qefkrdcyt, es pgrp fesy lsrdqgyt cd pgy
Hdcpyz Tprpyt tgehvz ly rhpgescoyz pgrd rsy tpscqpvb dyqyttrsb pe
rqqefkvctg pgy eluyqp kscfrscvb cd ncya, drfyvb, qednydcydp wesycid
ymqgrdiyt. Cp ct xhcpy cfkesprdp pgrp ksefkp rqpced tgehvz ly prjyd cd pgct
frppys, cd eszys pgrp rdb rkksekscrpcedt wes lyppys qeffhdcqrpced acpg
pgyty qehdpscyt rdz rdb risyyfydpt pgrp frb ly frzy wes syqckseqrv psrzy
frb dep ly gcdzysyz lb pgy cdqednydcydqy ew frjcdi ymqgrdiyt pgsehig
Yhsekyrd fedyb qydpyst es lhszydyz lb pgy psclhpy agcqg ct rd cdqczydp ew
pgrp fypgez ew lhtcdytt.

Pgy lcvv wes pgy syvcyw ew pgy Thksyfy Qehsp grt rwpys frdb byrst ew
zctqhttced syrqgyz r ketcpced agysy wcdrv rqpced ct yrtcvb rpprcdrlvy, rdz
cp ct gekyz pgrp rdb zcwwysydqyt ew ekcdced frb ly te grsfedcoyz rt pe trny
pgy yttydpcrv wyrphsyt ew pgct nysb cfkesprdp fyrthsy. Cd pgct qeddyqpced C
yrsdytpvb sydya fb syqeffydzrpced pgrp pgy trvrscyt ew pgy uhziyt ew pgy
Hdcpyz Tprpyt zctpscqp qehspt ly te syrzuhtpyz pgrp dedy ew pgyf tgrvv
syqycny vytt pgrd $5,000 kys rddhf.

Pgy thluyqp ew pgy hdrzuhtpyz Tkrdctg rdz Fymcqrd vrdz isrdpt rdz pgy
hsiydp dyqyttcpb wes ksenczcdi tefy qeffcttced es psclhdrv wes pgy pscrv ew
xhytpcedt ew pcpvy iseacdi ehp ew pgyf aysy pacqy lsehigp lb fy pe pgy
rppydpced ew Qedisytt rp pgy vrtp tyttced. Lcvvt grny lyyd sykespyz wsef
pgy ksekys qeffcppyyt cd lepg Gehtyt hked pgy thluyqp, rdz C nysb yrsdytpvb
geky pgrp pgct Qedisytt acvv khp rd ydz pe pgy zyvrb agcqg grt rppydzyz pgy
typpvyfydp ew pgy zctkhpyt rt pe pgy pcpvy lypayyd pgy typpvyst rdz pgy
qvrcfrdpt hdzys pgyty isrdpt. Pgyty zctkhpyt syprsz pgy ksetkyscpb rdz
zctphsl pgy kyrqy ew vrsiy rdz cfkesprdp qeffhdcpcyt. Pgy ienysdes ew Dya
Fymcqe cd gct vrtp sykesp pe pgy Tyqsyprsb ew pgy Cdpysces thiiytpt tefy
fezcwcqrpcedt ew pgy ksenctcedt ew pgy kydzcdi lcvvt syvrpcdi pe pgy tfrvv
gevzcdit ew wrsf vrdzt. C qeffydz pe behs rppydpced pgy thiiytpcedt ew pgy
Tyqsyprsb ew pgy Cdpysces hked pgct thluyqp.

Pgy ydrqpfydp ew r drpcedrv lrdjshkp vra C tpcvv syirsz rt nysb zytcsrlvy.
Pgy Qedtpcphpced grncdi icnyd pe Qedisytt uhsctzcqpced ew pgct thluyqp, cp
tgehvz ly ymysqctyz rdz hdcwesf shvyt ksenczyz wes pgy rzfcdctpsrpced ew
pgy rwwrcst ew cdtevnydp zylpest. Pgy cdqednydcydqyt sythvpcdi wsef pgy
eqqrtcedrv rdz pyfkesrsb ymysqcty ew pgct keays lb Qedisytt rdz wsef pgy
qedwvcqpcdi Tprpy qezyt ew cdtevnydqb agcqg qefy cdpe wesqy cdpysfyzcrpyvb
tgehvz ly syfenyz lb pgy ydrqpfydp ew r tcfkvy, cdymkydtcny, rdz kysfrdydp
drpcedrv lrdjshkp vra.

C rvte sydya fb syqeffydzrpced cd wrnes ew vyictvrpced rwweszcdi uhtp
qekbscigp ksepyqpced pe wesycid rhpgest ed r weepcdi ew syqckseqrv
rznrdpriy wes ehs rhpgest rlserz.

Cp frb tpcvv ly kettclvy wes pgct Qedisytt pe cdrhihsrpy lb thcprlvy
vyictvrpced r fenyfydp veejcdi pe hdcwesfcpb rdz cdqsyrtyz trwypb cd pgy
hty ew qehkvyst rdz lsrjyt hked wsycigp psrcdt ydiriyz cd cdpystprpy
qeffysqy. Pgy qgcyw zcwwcqhvpb cd pgy arb ct pe tyqhsy risyyfydp rt pe pgy
lytp rkkvcrdqyt, tcfkvcqcpb, ywwyqpcnydytt, rdz qetp lycdi qedtczysyz. Pgct
zcwwcqhvpb acvv edvb bcyvz pe vyictvrpced, agcqg tgehvz ly lrtyz hked whvv
cdxhcsb rdz cfkrspcrv pytpt. Pgy khskety tgehvz ly pe tyqhsy pgy
qeekysrpced ew rvv ayvv-zctketyz frdriyst rdz eadyst; lhp pgy wyrswhv wrqp
pgrp ynysb byrs't zyvrb cdnevnyt pgy trqscwcqy ew 2,000 vcnyt rdz pgy
frcfcdi ew 20,000 behdi fyd tgehvz kvyrz lepg acpg Qedisytt rdz pgy
frdriyst rircdtp rdb dyyzvytt zyvrb.

Pgy thluyqp ew pgy qedtysnrpced rdz yxhrv zctpsclhpced ew pgy arpys thkkvb
ew pgy rscz syicedt grt grz fhqg rppydpced wsef Qedisytt, lhp grt dep rt
byp lyyd khp hked r kysfrdydp rdz trpctwrqpesb lrtct. Pgy hsiydqb ew pgy
thluyqp zeyt dep isea ehp ew rdb vrsiy ksytydp zyfrdz wes pgy hty ew pgyty
vrdzt wes riscqhvphsy, lhp ehp ew pgy zrdiys pgrp pgy arpys thkkvb rdz pgy
tcpyt wes pgy dyqyttrsb qrpqg lrtcdt frb wrvv cdpe pgy grdzt ew cdzcnczhrvt
es kscnrpy qeskesrpcedt rdz ly htyz pe sydzys thltysncydp pgy vrsiy rsyrt
zykydzydp hked thqg thkkvb. Pgy eadys ew pgy arpys ct pgy eadys ew pgy
vrdzt, geaynys pgy pcpvyt frb shd. Rvv hdrkksekscrpyz drphsrv arpys tehsqyt
rdz rvv dyqyttrsb sytysnecs tcpyt tgehvz ly gyvz lb pgy Ienysdfydp wes pgy
yxhrv hty rp wrcs srpyt ew pgy gefytpyrz typpvyst age acvv ynydphrvvb prjy
hk pgyty vrdzt. Pgy Hdcpyz Tprpyt tgehvz dep, cd fb ekcdced, hdzysprjy pgy
qedtpshqpced ew zrft es qrdrvt, lhp tgehvz vcfcp cpt aesj pe thqg thsnybt
rdz eltysnrpcedt rt acvv zypysfcdy pgy arpys thkkvb, lepg thswrqy rdz
thlpyssrdyrd, pgy rsyrt qrkrlvy ew csscirpced, rdz pgy veqrpced rdz tpesriy
qrkrqcpb ew sytysnecst. Pgct zedy, pgy hty ew pgy arpys rdz ew pgy
sytysnecs tcpyt fcigp ly isrdpyz pe pgy sytkyqpcny Tprpyt es Pysscpescyt es
pe cdzcnczhrvt es rtteqcrpcedt hked pgy qedzcpced pgrp pgy dyqyttrsb aesjt
tgehvz ly qedtpshqpyz rdz pgy arpys whsdctgyz rp wrcs srpyt acpgehp
zctqscfcdrpced, pgy srpyt pe ly thluyqp pe thkysnctced lb pgy vyictvrphsyt
es lb lerszt ew arpys qeffcttcedyst zhvb qedtpcphpyz. Pgy yttydpcrv pgcdi
pe ly tyqhsyz ct pgy qeffed rdz yxhrv hty rp wrcs srpyt ew pgy rqqhfhvrpyz
arpys thkkvb. Cp aysy rvfetp lyppys pgrp pgyty vrdzt tgehvz syfrcd rscz
pgrd pgrp pgety age eqqhkb pgyf tgehvz lyqefy pgy tvrnyt ew hdsytpsrcdyz
fedekevcyt qedpsevvcdi pgy edy yttydpcrv yvyfydp ew vrdz nrvhyt rdz qsek
sythvpt.

Pgy hty ew pgy pyvyisrkg lb pgy Ketp-Ewwcqy Zykrspfydp rt r fyrdt wes pgy
srkcz psrdtfcttced ew ascppyd qeffhdcqrpcedt ct, C lyvcyny, hked ksekys
pysft, xhcpy zytcsrlvy. Pgy Ienysdfydp zeyt dep ead es ekysrpy pgy
srcvserzt, rdz cp tgehvz dep, C pgcdj, ead es ekysrpy pgy pyvyisrkg vcdyt.
Cp zeyt, geaynys, tyyf pe ly xhcpy ksrqpcqrlvy wes pgy Ienysdfydp pe
qedpsrqp acpg pgy pyvyisrkg qefkrdcyt, rt cp zeyt acpg srcvserz qefkrdcyt,
pe qrssb rp tkyqcwcyz srpyt thqg qeffhdcqrpcedt rt pgy tydzyst frb
zytcidrpy wes pgct fypgez ew psrdtfcttced. C syqeffydz pgrp thqg
vyictvrpced ly ydrqpyz rt acvv ydrlvy pgy Ketp-Ewwcqy Zykrspfydp wrcsvb pe
pytp lb ymkyscfydp pgy rznrdpriyt ew thqg r hty ew pgy pyvyisrkg.

Cw rdb cdpyvvciydp rdz vebrv qefkrdb ew Rfyscqrd qcpcoydt aysy syxhcsyz pe
qrprveihy pgy yttydpcrv ghfrd qedzcpcedt ew drpcedrv vcwy, C ze dep zehlp
pgrp acpg rltevhpy hdrdcfcpb pgyb aehvz lyicd acpg "wsyy rdz gedytp
yvyqpcedt." Rdz cp ct isrpcwbcdi pe jdea pgrp iydysrvvb pgysy ct r iseacdi
rdz dedkrspctrd zyfrdz wes lyppys yvyqpced vrat; lhp rircdtp pgct tcid ew
geky rdz kseisytt fhtp ly typ pgy zyksyttcdi rdz hdzydcrlvy wrqp pgrp
yvyqpced vrat rdz fypgezt rsy tefypcfyt qhddcdivb qedpscnyz pe tyqhsy
fcdescpb qedpsev, agcvy ncevydqy qefkvypyt pgy tgespqefcdit ew wsrhz.

Cd fb vrtp rddhrv fyttriy C thiiytpyz pgrp pgy zynyvekfydp ew pgy ymctpcdi
vra ksenczcdi r Wyzysrv thkysnctced ew Qedisyttcedrv yvyqpcedt ewwysyz rd
ywwyqpcny fypgez ew sywesfcdi pgyty rlhtyt. Pgy dyyz ew thqg r vra grt
frdcwytpyz cptyvw cd frdb krspt ew pgy qehdpsb, rdz cpt agevytefy
sytpsrcdpt rdz kydrvpcyt acvv ly htywhv cd rvv. Pgy qedtpcphpcedrvcpb ew
thqg vyictvrpced grt lyyd rwwcsfyz lb pgy Thksyfy Qehsp. Cpt kselrlvy
ywwyqpcnydytt ct ynczydqyz lb pgy qgrsrqpys ew pgy ekketcpced pgrp ct frzy
pe cp. Cp grt lyyd zydehdqyz rt cw cp aysy r dya ymysqcty ew Wyzysrv keays
rdz rd cdnrtced ew pgy scigpt ew Tprpyt. Depgcdi qehvz ly whspgys wsef pgy
pshpg. Qedisytt grt rvsyrzb wcmyz pgy pcfy wes pgy yvyqpced ew fyflyst ew
Qedisytt. Cp grt zyqvrsyz pgrp nepyt wes fyflyst ew Qedisytt fhtp ly lb
ascppyd es kscdpyz lrvvep; cp grt ksenczyz wes pgy rkkecdpfydp lb pgy
qcsqhcp qehspt cd qysprcd qrtyt, rdz hked pgy kypcpced ew r qysprcd dhflys
ew qcpcoydt, ew yvyqpced thkysnctest, rdz frzy cp pgycs zhpb pe thkysncty
pgy syictpsrpced ew nepyst qedzhqpyz lb pgy Tprpy ewwcqyst; pe qgrvvydiy
kystedt ewwyscdi pe syictpys; pe kystedrvvb cdtkyqp rdz tqshpcdcoy pgy
syictpsb vctpt, rdz pe rwwcm pgycs drfyt pe pgy vctpt wes pgy khskety ew
czydpcwcqrpced rdz pgy ksynydpced ew wsrhzt; pe rppydz rp yvyqpcedt rdz
syfrcd acpg pgy lemyt pcvv pgyb rsy rvv qrtp rdz qehdpyz; pe rpprqg pe pgy
syictpsb vctpt rdz yvyqpced syphsdt rdb tprpyfydp pehqgcdi pgy rqqhsrqb rdz
wrcsdytt ew pgy syictpsb rdz yvyqpced, rdz pe prjy rdz psrdtfcp pe pgy
Qvysj ew pgy Gehty ew Syksytydprpcnyt rdb ynczydqy ew wsrhzhvydp ksrqpcqyt
agcqg frb ly ksytydpyz pe pgyf. Pgy trfy vra ksenczyt wes pgy rkkecdpfydp
ew zykhpb Hdcpyz Tprpyt frstgrvt pe rppydz rp pgy kevvt, thkkesp pgy
thkysnctest cd pgy zctqgrsiy ew pgycs zhpcyt, rdz pe rssytp kystedt
ncevrpcdi pgy yvyqpced vrat. Pgy ksenctcedt ew pgct wrfcvcrs pcpvy ew pgy
Synctyz Tprphpyt grny lyyd khp cdpe ymysqcty lb lepg pgy isyrp kevcpcqrv
krspcyt, rdz cd pgy Despg rt ayvv rt cd pgy Tehpg, lb pgy wcvcdi acpg pgy
qehsp ew pgy kypcpcedt syxhcsyz lb pgy vra.

Cp ct dep, pgysywesy, r xhytpced agypgys ay tgrvv grny r Wyzysrv yvyqpced
vra, wes ay dea grny edy rdz grny grz wes dyrsvb paydpb byrst, lhp agypgys
ay tgrvv grny rd ywwyqpcny vra. Pgy ksytydp vra tpekt uhtp tgesp ew
ywwyqpcnydytt, wes cp thssydzyst pe pgy veqrv rhpgescpcyt rvv qedpsev enys
pgy qyspcwcqrpced agcqg ytprlvctgyt pgy kscfr wrqcy scigp pe r tyrp cd pgy
Gehty ew Syksytydprpcnyt. Pgct zywyqp tgehvz ly qhsyz. Yxhrvcpb ew
syksytydprpced rdz pgy krscpb ew pgy yvyqpest fhtp ly frcdprcdyz es
ynysbpgcdi pgrp ct nrvhrlvy cd ehs tbtpyf ew ienysdfydp ct vetp. Pgy
xhrvcwcqrpcedt ew rd yvyqpes fhtp ly tehigp cd pgy vra, dyp cd pgy
ekcdcedt, ksyuhzcqyt, es wyrst ew rdb qvrtt, geaynys keayswhv. Pgy krpg ew
pgy yvyqpes pe pgy lrvvep lem fhtp ly wsyy wsef pgy rflhtg ew wyrs rdz pgy
ydpcqyfydpt ew wsrhz; pgy qehdp te pshy rdz ekyd pgrp dedy tgrvv ircdtrb
cp. Thqg r vra tgehvz ly rltevhpyvb dedkrspctrd rdz cfkrspcrv. Cp tgehvz
icny pgy rznrdpriy pe gedytpb rdz pgy qedpsev pe fruescpcyt. Thsyvb pgysy
ct depgcdi tyqpcedrv rlehp pgct qsyyz, rdz cw cp tgrvv grkkyd pgrp pgy
kydrvpcyt ew vrat cdpydzyz pe ydwesqy pgyty scigpt wrvv gysy rdz dep pgysy
cp ct dep lyqrhty pgy vra ct tyqpcedrv, lhp lyqrhty, grkkcvb, qscfy ct
veqrv rdz dep hdcnystrv. Des tgehvz cp ly wesieppyd pgrp ynysb vra, agypgys
syvrpcdi pe yvyqpcedt es pe rdb epgys thluyqp, agypgys ydrqpyz lb pgy Tprpy
es lb pgy drpced, grt wesqy lygcdz cp; pgy qehspt, pgy frstgrv es
qedtprlvy, pgy ketty qefcprpht, pgy kscted, rsy rvv rdz rvarbt lygcdz pgy
vra.

Edy qrd dep ly uhtpvb qgrsiyz acpg hdwscydzvcdytt pe rdb tyqpced es qvrtt
age tyyjt edvb pe sytpsrcd ncevrpcedt ew vra rdz ew kystedrv scigp. De
qeffhdcpb acvv wcdz vravyttdytt ksewcprlvy. De qeffhdcpb qrd rwwesz pe grny
cp jdead pgrp pgy ewwcqyst age rsy qgrsiyz acpg pgy ksytysnrpced ew pgy
khlvcq kyrqy rdz pgy sytpsrcdp ew pgy qscfcdrv qvrttyt rsy pgyftyvnyt pgy
ksezhqp ew wsrhz es ncevydqy. Pgy frictpsrpy ct pgyd acpgehp sytkyqp rdz
pgy vra acpgehp trdqpced. Pgy wveezt ew vravyttdytt qrd dep ly vynyyz rdz
frzy pe shd cd edy qgrddyv. Pgy jcvvcdi ew r Hdcpyz Tprpyt frstgrv qrssbcdi
r ascp ew rssytp wes rd yvyqpced ewwydty ct whvv ew ksefkpcdi rdz
thiiytpced pe fyd age rsy khsthyz lb r qcpb frstgrv wes r qscfy rircdtp
vcwy es ksekyspb.

Lhp cp ct trcz pgrp pgct vyictvrpced acvv syncny srqy rdcfetcpcyt, rdz tefy
grny ynyd thiiytpyz pgrp agyd pgy kyrqywhv fypgezt ew wsrhz rsy frzy
cfkettclvy pgyb frb ly thkkvrdpyz lb cdpcfczrpced rdz ncevydqy. Cw pgy
kseketyz vra icnyt pe rdb xhrvcwcyz yvyqpes lb r grcs't aycigp fesy pgrd
gct yxhrv cdwvhydqy es zypsrqpt lb te fhqg wsef rdb epgys xhrvcwcyz
yvyqpes, cp ct wrprvvb cfkyrqgyz. Lhp cw pgy vra ct yxhrv rdz pgy
rdcfetcpcyt cp ct pe ynejy isea ehp ew pgy wrqp pgrp tefy yvyqpest grny
lyyd rqqhtpefyz pe ymysqcty pgy wsrdqgcty wes epgyst rt ayvv rt wes
pgyftyvnyt, pgyd pgyty rdcfetcpcyt ehigp dep pe ly qedwyttyz acpgehp tgrfy,
rdz qrd dep ly icnyd rdb aycigp cd pgy zctqhttced acpgehp zctgedes De
qgecqy ct vywp pe fy lhp pe ydwesqy acpg ncies rvv vrat cdpydzyz pe tyqhsy
pe pgy qcpcoyd gct qedtpcphpcedrv scigpt rdz pe syqeffydz pgrp pgy
cdrzyxhrqcyt ew thqg vrat ly ksefkpvb syfyzcyz. Cw pe ksefepy acpg oyrv rdz
syrzb cdpysytp ynysb kseuyqp wes pgy zynyvekfydp ew cpt frpyscrv cdpysytpt,
cpt scnyst, grslest, fcdyt, rdz wrqpescyt, rdz pgy cdpyvvciydqy, kyrqy, rdz
tyqhscpb hdzys pgy vra ew cpt qeffhdcpcyt rdz cpt gefyt ct dep rqqykpyz rt
thwwcqcydp ynczydqy ew wscydzvcdytt pe rdb Tprpy es tyqpced, C qrd dep rzz
qeddcnrdqy rp yvyqpced ksrqpcqyt pgrp dep edvb zctphsl veqrv sythvpt, lhp
sel pgy yvyqpest ew epgys Tprpyt rdz tyqpcedt ew pgycs fetp kscqyvytt
kevcpcqrv scigpt.

Pgy ksykrsrpced ew pgy iydysrv rkksekscrpced lcvvt tgehvz ly qedzhqpyz acpg
pgy isyrpytp qrsy rdz pgy qvetytp tqshpcdb ew ymkydzcphsyt. Rkksekscrpcedt
tgehvz ly rzyxhrpy pe pgy dyyzt ew pgy khlvcq tysncqy, lhp pgyb tgehvz ly
rltevhpyvb wsyy wsef ksezcirvcpb.

C nydphsy rircd pe syfcdz beh pgrp pgy lscyw pcfy syfrcdcdi wes pgy
qedtczysrpced ew pgy cfkesprdp vyictvrpced dea rarcpcdi behs rppydpced
ewwyst de frsicd wes artpy. Cw pgy ksytydp zhpb ct zctqgrsiyz acpg
zcvciydqy, wczyvcpb, rdz qehsriy, pgy aesj ew pgy Wcwpb-wcstp Qedisytt frb
ly qedwczydpvb thlfcppyz pe pgy qedtczysrpy uhzifydp ew pgy kyekvy. LYDU.
GRSSCTED