Ch cxp Rpljcp jlf Xherp hy Ipwiprplcjcodpr:

Cxp ipwhicr hy cxp xpjfr hy cxp rpdpijs Pvpgecodp Fpwjickplcr ipzeoipf um
sjt ch up reukoccpf ch kp, txogx jip xpiptocx cijlrkoccpf, jlf cxp ipwhicr
hy cxp Rpgipcjim hy cxp Cipjreim jlf cxp Jcchilpm-Nplpijs, kjfp foipgcsm ch
Ghlniprr, yeilorx j ghkwipxplrodp dopt hy cxp jfkolorcijcodp thiq hy cxp
sjrc yorgjs mpji ipsjcoln ch olcpiljs jyyjoi. Oc thesf up hy nipjc
jfdjlcjnp oy cxprp ipwhicr ghesf xjdp jl jscpiljcodp wpierjs um pdpim
kpkupi hy Ghlniprr jlf um jss txh cjqp jl olcpiprc ol weusog jyyjoir. Regx
j wpierjs ghesf lhc yjos ch pvgocp j xonxpi jwwipgojcohl hy cxp djrc sjuhi
jlf ghlrgoplcoher pyyhic txogx jip nodpl ch cxp ghlfegc hy hei godos
jfkolorcijcohl.

Cxp ipwhicr toss, O upsopdp, rxht cxjc pdpim zeprcohl xjr uppl jwwihjgxpf,
ghlrofpipf, jlf fpgofpf yihk cxp rcjlfwholc hy weusog fecm ewhl
ghlrofpijcohlr jyypgcoln cxp weusog olcpiprcr jshlp. Jnjol O oldocp ch
pdpim uijlgx hy cxp rpidogp cxp jccplcohl jlf rgiecolm hy Ghlniprr.

Cxp thiq hy cxp Rcjcp Fpwjickplc feioln cxp sjrc mpji xjr uppl
gxjijgcpioapf um jl elerejs lekupi hy okwhicjlc lpnhcojcohlr jlf um
fowshkjcog iprescr hy j lhcjusp jlf xonxsm uplpyogojs gxjijgcpi. Jkhln
cxprp jip cxp ipgowihgjs cijfp jiijlnpkplcr txogx xjdp uppl ghlgsefpf, ol
cxp pvpigorp hy cxp whtpir ghlypiipf um rpgcohl 3 hy cxp cjioyy sjt, tocx
cxp Ipweusog hy Uijaos, tocx Rwjol yhi ocr Tprc Olfoj whrrprrohlr, jlf tocx
Rjlch Fhkolnh. Soqp lpnhcojcohlr tocx hcxpi ghelciopr xjdp uppl kegx
jfdjlgpf, jlf oc or xhwpf cxjc upyhip cxp gshrp hy cxp mpji yeicxpi
fpyolocodp cijfp jiijlnpkplcr hy nipjc djsep toss up ghlgsefpf.

Ol dopt hy cxp ipwhicr txogx xjf uppl ipgpodpf jr ch cxp fokolecohl hy cxp
rpjs xpifr ol cxp Upioln Rpj, O fppkpf oc torp ch wihwhrp ch Xpi Kjbprcm'r
Nhdpilkplc ol Ypuiejim sjrc cxjc jl jnippkplc yhi j gshrpf rpjrhl rxhesf up
kjfp wplfoln cxp lpnhcojcohlr yhi jiuocijcohl, txogx cxpl rppkpf ch up
jwwihjgxoln j yjdhijusp ghlgserohl. Jycpi kegx ghiiprwhlfplgp jlf fpsjmr,
yhi txogx cxor Nhdpilkplc tjr lhc iprwhlrousp, jl jnippkplc tjr ipjgxpf jlf
ronlpf hl cxp 15cx hy Belp, um txogx Nipjc Uiocjol elfpichhq yihk cxjc fjcp
jlf elcos Kjm 1, 1892, ch wihxouoc cxp qossoln um xpi reubpgcr hy rpjsr ol
cxp Upioln Rpj, jlf cxp Nhdpilkplc hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr feioln cxp rjkp
wpiohf ch plyhigp ocr pvorcoln wihxouocohl jnjolrc wpsjnog rpjsoln jlf ch
sokoc cxp gjcgx um cxp yei-rpjs ghkwjlm ewhl cxp orsjlfr ch 7,500 rqolr. Oy
cxor jnippkplc ghesf xjdp uppl ipjgxpf pjisopi ol iprwhlrp ch cxp rcipleher
plfpjdhir hy cxor Nhdpilkplc, oc thesf xjdp uppl khip pyypgcodp; uec ghkoln
pdpl jr sjcp jr oc fof oc elzeprcohljusm iprescpf ol nipjcsm fokolorxoln
cxp fprciegcohl hy cxp rpjsr um cxp Gjljfojl rpjspir.

Ol km sjrc jllejs kprrjnp O rcjcpf cxjc cxp ujror hy jiuocijcohl wihwhrpf
um Xpi Kjbprcm'r Nhdpilkplc yhi cxp jfberckplc hy cxp shln-wplfoln
ghlcihdpirm jr ch cxp rpjs yorxpiopr tjr lhc jggpwcjusp. O jk nsjf lht ch
up jusp ch jllhelgp cxjc cpikr rjcoryjgchim ch cxor Nhdpilkplc xjdp uppl
jnippf ewhl jlf cxjc jl jnippkplc jr ch cxp jiuocijchir or jss cxjc or
lpgprrjim ch cxp ghkwspcohl hy cxp ghldplcohl. Ol dopt hy cxp jfdjlgpf
whrocohl txogx cxor Nhdpilkplc xjr cjqpl ewhl cxp reubpgc hy olcpiljcohljs
jiuocijcohl, cxor iplptpf pvwiprrohl hy hei jfxpiplgp ch cxor kpcxhf yhi
cxp rpccspkplc hy forwecpr regx jr xjdp jiorpl ol cxp Upioln Rpj toss, O
fheuc lhc, kppc tocx cxp ghlgeiiplgp hy Ghlniprr.

Wihdorohl rxhesf up kjfp yhi j bholc fpkjigjcohl hy cxp yihlcopi solp
upctppl Gjljfj jlf cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr txpipdpi ipzeoipf um cxp olgipjroln
uhifpi rpccspkplcr, jlf prwpgojssm yhi cxp pvjgc shgjcohl hy cxp tjcpi
uhelfjim ol cxp rcijocr jlf iodpir.

O rxhesf xjdp uppl nsjf ch jllhelgp rhkp yjdhijusp forwhrocohl hy cxp
uhelfjim forwecp upctppl Nipjc Uiocjol jlf Dplpaepsj chegxoln cxp tprcpil
yihlcopi hy Uiocorx Neojlj, uec cxp yioplfsm pyyhicr hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr
ol cxjc foipgcohl xjdp cxer yji uppl eljdjosoln. Cxor Nhdpilkplc toss
ghlcolep ch pvwiprr ocr ghlgpil jc jlm jwwpjijlgp hy yhiponl plgihjgxkplc
hl cpiiochiopr shln elfpi cxp jfkolorcijcodp ghlcihs hy Jkpiogjl Rcjcpr.
Cxp fpcpikoljcohl hy j forwecpf uhelfjim or pjrosm jccjoljusp um jkogjusp
jiuocijcohl txpip cxp ionxcr hy cxp iprwpgcodp wjicopr iprc, jr xpip, hl
xorchiog yjgcr ipjfosm jrgpicjoljusp.

Cxp sjt hy cxp sjrc Ghlniprr wihdofoln j rmrcpk hy olrwpgcohl yhi hei kpjcr
olcplfpf yhi pvwhic, jlf gshcxoln cxp Wiprofplc tocx whtpi ch pvgsefp
yhiponl wihfegcr yihk hei kjiqpc ol gjrp cxp ghelcim rplfoln cxpk rxhesf
wpiwpcejcp elberc forgiokoljcohlr jnjolrc jlm wihfegc hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr,
wsjgpf cxor Nhdpilkplc ol j whrocohl ch pyypgcodpsm einp cxp ipkhdjs hy
regx forgiokoljcohlr jnjolrc hei kpjcr. Oc or nijcoymoln ch up jusp ch
rcjcp cxjc Npikjlm, Fplkjiq, Ocjsm, Jercioj, jlf Yijlgp, ol cxp hifpi
ljkpf, xjdp hwplpf cxpoi whicr ch olrwpgcpf Jkpiogjl whiq wihfegcr. Cxp
ipkhdjs hy cxprp iprciogcohlr ol pdpim olrcjlgp tjr jrqpf yhi jlf nodpl
rhspsm ewhl cxp nihelf cxjc tp xjdp lht wihdofpf j kpjc olrwpgcohl cxjc
rxhesf up jggpwcpf jr jfpzejcp ch cxp ghkwspcp ipkhdjs hy cxp fjlnpir, ipjs
hi yjlgopf, txogx xjf uppl wipdohersm einpf. Cxp Rcjcp Fpwjickplc, hei
kolorcpir juihjf, jlf cxp Rpgipcjim hy Jniogesceip xjdp ghhwpijcpf tocx
elysjnnoln jlf olcpssonplc apjs yhi cxp jgghkwsorxkplc hy cxor nipjc
ipresc. Cxp hecsolpr hy jl jnippkplc xjdp uppl ipjgxpf tocx Npikjlm shhqoln
ch pzeocjusp cijfp ghlgprrohlr ol ghlrofpijcohl hy cxp ghlcolepf yipp
okwhicjcohl hy xpi renjir, uec cxp cokp xjr lhc mpc jiiodpf txpl cxor
ghiiprwhlfplgp gjl up reukoccpf ch Ghlniprr.

Cxp ipgplc whsocogjs forceiujlgpr ol cxp Ipweusog hy Uijaos xjdp pvgocpf
ipnipc jlf rhsogocefp. Cxp olyhikjcohl tp whrrprrpf tjr chh kpjnpi ch
pljusp er ch yhik j rjcoryjgchim befnkplc hy cxp gjerpr spjfoln ch cxp
cpkwhijim jrrekwcohl hy rewipkp whtpi um Wiprofplc Yhlrpgj; uec cxor
Nhdpilkplc fof lhc yjos ch pvwiprr ch xok ocr jlvoher rhsogocefp yhi cxp
wpjgp hy Uijaos jlf yhi cxp kjolcpljlgp hy cxp yipp whsocogjs olrcocecohlr
txogx xjf ipgplcsm uppl prcjusorxpf cxpip, lhi ch hyypi hei jfdogp cxjc
nipjc khfpijcohl rxhesf up hurpidpf ol cxp gsjrx hy wjicopr jlf cxp ghlcprc
yhi spjfpirxow. Cxprp ghelrpsr tpip ipgpodpf ol cxp khrc yioplfsm rwoioc,
jlf cxp sjcprc olyhikjcohl or cxjc ghlrcocecohljs nhdpilkplc xjr uppl
ipprcjusorxpf tocxhec ushhfrxpf.

Cxp smlgxoln jc Lpt Hispjlr ol Kjigx sjrc hy pspdpl kpl hy Ocjsojl ljcodocm
um j khu hy gocoaplr tjr j khrc fpwshijusp jlf forgipfocjusp olgofplc. Oc
fof lhc, xhtpdpi, xjdp ocr hionol ol jlm nplpijs jlokhrocm ch cxp Ocjsojl
wphwsp, lhi ol jlm foriprwpgc ch cxp Nhdpilkplc hy Ocjsm, tocx txogx hei
ipsjcohlr tpip hy cxp khrc yioplfsm gxjijgcpi. Cxp yeim hy cxp khu tjr
foipgcpf jnjolrc cxprp kpl jr cxp rewwhrpf wjicogowjlcr hi jggprrhiopr ol
cxp keifpi hy j gocm hyyogpi. O fh lhc jssefp ch cxor jr koconjcoln ol jlm
fpnipp cxor hyyplrp jnjolrc sjt jlf xekjlocm, uec hlsm jr jyypgcoln cxp
olcpiljcohljs zeprcohlr txogx nipt hec hy oc. Oc tjr jc hlgp ipwiprplcpf um
cxp Ocjsojl kolorcpi cxjc rpdpijs hy cxhrp txhrp sodpr xjf uppl cjqpl um
cxp khu tpip Ocjsojl reubpgcr, jlf j fpkjlf tjr kjfp yhi cxp welorxkplc hy
cxp wjicogowjlcr jlf yhi jl olfpklocm ch cxp yjkosopr hy cxhrp txh tpip
qosspf. Oc or ch up ipnipccpf cxjc cxp kjllpi ol txogx cxprp gsjokr tpip
wiprplcpf tjr lhc regx jr ch wihkhcp j gjsk forgerrohl hy cxp zeprcohlr
oldhsdpf; uec cxor kjm tpss up jcciouecpf ch cxp pvgocpkplc jlf olfonljcohl
txogx cxp giokp ljceijssm pdhqpf. Cxp doptr hy cxor Nhdpilkplc jr ch ocr
husonjcohlr ch yhiponlpir fhkogospf xpip tpip yessm rcjcpf ol cxp
ghiiprwhlfplgp, jr tpss jr ocr weiwhrp ch kjqp jl oldprconjcohl hy cxp
jyyjoi tocx j dopt ch fpcpikolp txpcxpi cxpip tpip wiprplc jlm
goigekrcjlgpr cxjc ghesf elfpi regx iespr hy fecm jr tp xjf olfogjcpf
gipjcp jl husonjcohl ewhl cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr. Cxp cpkwhijim jurplgp hy j
kolorcpi wsplowhcplcojim hy Ocjsm jc cxor gjwocjs xjr ipcjifpf cxp yeicxpi
ghiiprwhlfplgp, uec oc or lhc fheucpf cxjc j yioplfsm ghlgserohl or
jccjoljusp.

Rhkp rennprcohlr nihtoln hec hy cxor elxjwwm olgofplc jip thicxm cxp
jccplcohl hy Ghlniprr. Oc thesf, O upsopdp, up plcoipsm ghkwpcplc yhi
Ghlniprr ch kjqp hyyplrpr jnjolrc cxp cipjcm ionxcr hy yhiponlpir fhkogospf
ol cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr ghnloajusp ol cxp Ypfpijs gheicr. Cxor xjr lhc,
xhtpdpi, uppl fhlp, jlf cxp Ypfpijs hyyogpir jlf gheicr xjdp lh whtpi ol
regx gjrpr ch olcpidplp, pocxpi yhi cxp wihcpgcohl hy j yhiponl gocoapl hi
yhi cxp welorxkplc hy xor rsjmpir. Oc rppkr ch kp ch yhssht, ol cxor rcjcp
hy cxp sjt, cxjc cxp hyyogpir hy cxp Rcjcp gxjinpf tocx whsogp jlf befogojs
whtpir ol regx gjrpr kerc ol cxp ghlrofpijcohl hy olcpiljcohljs zeprcohlr
nihtoln hec hy regx olgofplcr up ipnjifpf ol regx rplrp jr Ypfpijs jnplcr
jr ch kjqp cxor Nhdpilkplc jlrtpijusp yhi cxpoi jgcr ol gjrpr txpip oc
thesf up jlrtpijusp oy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr xjf erpf ocr ghlrcocecohljs whtpi
ch fpyolp jlf welorx giokp jnjolrc cipjcm ionxcr.

Cxp godos tji ol Gxosp, txogx upnjl ol Bjlejim sjrc, tjr ghlcolepf, uec
yhiceljcpsm tocx olyipzeplc jlf lhc okwhicjlc jikpf ghssorohlr, elcos
Jenerc 28, txpl cxp Ghlniprrohljs yhigpr sjlfpf lpji Djswjijorh jlf jycpi j
ushhfm plnjnpkplc gjwceipf cxjc gocm. Wiprofplc Ujskjgpfj jc hlgp
ipghnloapf cxjc xor gjerp tjr shrc, jlf j Wihdorohljs Nhdpilkplc tjr
rwppfosm prcjusorxpf um cxp dogchioher wjicm. Hei kolorcpi tjr wihkwcsm
foipgcpf ch ipghnloap jlf wec xokrpsy ol ghkkelogjcohl tocx cxor Nhdpilkplc
rh rhhl jr oc rxhesf xjdp prcjusorxpf ocr fp yjgch gxjijgcpi, txogx tjr
fhlp. Feioln cxp wplfplgm hy cxor godos ghlcprc yipzeplc olfoipgc jwwpjsr
tpip kjfp ch cxor Nhdpilkplc ch pvcplf upssonpiplc ionxcr ch cxp olreinplcr
jlf ch nodp jefoplgp ch cxpoi ipwiprplcjcodpr. Cxor tjr fpgsolpf, jlf cxjc
whsogm tjr weirepf cxihenxhec txogx cxor Nhdpilkplc txpl tiplgxpf um godos
tji rh rciplehersm olrorcpf ewhl hl cxp wjic hy Peihwpjl ljcohlr. Cxp
Ocjcj, jl jikpf dprrps ghkkjlfpf um j ljdjs hyyogpi hy cxp olreinplc ysppc,
kjllpf um ocr rjoshir jlf tocx rhsfopir hl uhjif, tjr rpoapf elfpi wihgprr
hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr gheic jc Rjl Fopnh, Gjs., yhi j dohsjcohl hy hei
lpecijsocm sjtr. Txosp ol cxp gerchfm hy jl hyyogpi hy cxp gheic cxp dprrps
tjr yhigousm tiprcpf yihk xor ghlcihs jlf wec ch rpj. Oc thesf xjdp uppl
olghlrorcplc tocx cxp fonlocm jlf rpsy-iprwpgc hy cxor Nhdpilkplc lhc ch
xjdp olrorcpf cxjc cxp Ocjsj rxhesf up ipceilpf ch Rjl Fopnh ch juofp cxp
befnkplc hy cxp gheic. Cxor tjr rh gspji ch cxp belcj hy cxp Ghlniprrohljs
wjicm, prcjusorxpf jc Ozeozep, cxjc upyhip cxp jiiodjs hy cxp Ocjcj jc cxjc
whic cxp rpgipcjim hy yhiponl ipsjcohlr hy cxp Wihdorohljs Nhdpilkplc
jffiprrpf ch Ipji-Jfkoijs Uihtl, ghkkjlfoln cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr ljdjs yhigpr,
j ghkkelogjcohl, yihk txogx cxp yhsshtoln or jl pvcijgc: Cxp Wihdorohljs
Nhdpilkplc xjr spjilpf um cxp gjuspnijkr hy cxp Jrrhgojcpf Wiprr cxjc cxp
cijlrwhic Ocjcj, fpcjolpf ol Rjl Fopnh um hifpi hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr yhi
cjqoln hl uhjif kelocohlr hy tji, jlf ol whrrprrohl hy cxp kjirxjs, spyc
cxp whic, gjiimoln hl uhjif cxor hyyogojs, txh tjr sjlfpf jc j wholc lpji
cxp ghjrc, jlf cxpl ghlcolepf xpi dhmjnp. Oy cxor lptr up ghiipgc cxor
Nhdpilkplc thesf fpwship cxp ghlfegc hy cxp Ocjcj, jlf jr jl pdofplgp cxjc
oc or lhc forwhrpf ch rewwhic hi jnipp ch cxp olyijgcohl hy cxp sjtr hy cxp
Elocpf Rcjcpr cxp elfpironlpf cjqpr jfdjlcjnp hy cxp wpirhljs ipsjcohlr mhe
xjdp uppl nhhf plhenx ch kjolcjol tocx xok rolgp mhei jiiodjs ol cxor whic
ch fpgsjip ch mhe cxjc jr rhhl jr rxp or tocxol ipjgx hy hei hifpir xor
Nhdpilkplc toss wec cxp Ocjcj, tocx cxp jikr jlf kelocohlr rxp chhq hl
uhjif ol Rjos Fopnh, jc cxp forwhrocohl hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr. J ciojs ol
cxp forciogc gheic hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr yhi cxp rhecxpil forciogc hy
Gjsoyhiloj xjr ipgplcsm iprescpf ol j fpgorohl xhsfoln, jkhln hcxpi cxolnr,
cxjc oljrkegx jr cxp Ghlniprrohljs wjicm xjf lhc uppl ipghnloapf jr j
upssonpiplc cxp jgcr fhlp ol ocr olcpiprc ghesf lhc up j dohsjcohl hy hei
lpecijsocm sjtr. Yihk cxor befnkplc cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr xjr jwwpjspf, lhc
cxjc cxp ghlfpkljcohl hy cxp dprrps or j kjccpi hy okwhicjlgp, uec cxjc tp
kjm qlht txjc cxp wiprplc rcjcp hy hei sjt or; yhi oy cxor ghlrciegcohl hy
cxp rcjcecp or ghiipgc cxpip or hudoher lpgprrocm yhi ipdorohl jlf
jkplfkplc.

Feioln cxp wihniprr hy cxp tji ol Gxosp cxor Nhdpilkplc cplfpipf ocr nhhf
hyyogpr ch uioln juhec j wpjgpyes jfberckplc, jlf oc tjr jc hlp cokp xhwpf
cxjc j nhhf ipresc konxc up ipjgxpf; uec ol cxor tp tpip forjwwholcpf.

Cxp olrciegcohlr ch hei ljdjs hyyogpir jlf ch hei kolorcpi jc Rjlcojnh yihk
cxp yoirc ch cxp sjrc hy cxor rciennsp plbholpf ewhl cxpk cxp khrc
okwjicojs cipjckplc jlf jurhsecp lhlolcpiypiplgp. O jk rjcoryopf cxjc cxprp
olrciegcohlr tpip hurpidpf jlf cxjc hei ipwiprplcjcodpr tpip jstjmr
tjcgxyes ch erp cxpoi olyseplgp okwjicojssm ol cxp olcpiprc hy xekjlocm,
jlf hl khip cxjl hlp hggjrohl fof rh pyypgcodpsm. Tp ghesf lhc yhinpc,
xhtpdpi, cxjc cxor Nhdpilkplc tjr ol fowshkjcog ipsjcohlr tocx cxp cxpl
prcjusorxpf Nhdpilkplc hy Gxosp, jr oc or lht ol regx ipsjcohlr tocx cxp
reggprrhi hy cxjc Nhdpilkplc. O jk zeocp reip cxjc Wiprofplc Khlcc, txh
xjr, elfpi goigekrcjlgpr hy wihkorp yhi cxp wpjgp hy Gxosp, uppl olrcjsspf
jr Wiprofplc hy cxjc Ipweusog, toss lhc fproip cxjc ol cxp elyhiceljcp
pdplc hy jlm ipdhsc jnjolrc xor jecxhiocm cxp whsogm hy cxor Nhdpilkplc
rxhesf up hcxpi cxjl cxjc txogx tp xjdp ipgplcsm hurpidpf. Lh hyyogojs
ghkwsjolc hy cxp ghlfegc hy hei kolorcpi hi hy hei ljdjs hyyogpir feioln
cxp rciennsp xjr uppl wiprplcpf ch cxor Nhdpilkplc, jlf oc or j kjccpi hy
ipnipc cxjc rh kjlm hy hei htl wphwsp rxhesf xjdp nodpl pji ch elhyyogojs
gxjinpr jlf ghkwsjolcr cxjc kjloyprcsm xjf cxpoi hionol ol iodjs olcpiprcr
jlf ol j torx ch wpidpic cxp ipsjcohlr hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr tocx Gxosp.

Cxp ghssjwrp hy cxp Nhdpilkplc hy Ujskjgpfj uihenxc juhec j ghlfocohl txogx
or elyhiceljcpsm chh yjkosoji ol cxp xorchim hy cxp Gplcijs jlf Rhecx
Jkpiogjl Rcjcpr. Tocx cxp hdpicxiht hy cxp Ujskjgpfj Nhdpilkplc xp jlf kjlm
hy xor ghelgoshir jlf hyyogpir upgjkp jc hlgp yenocodpr yhi cxpoi sodpr jlf
jwwpjspf ch cxp ghkkjlfoln hyyogpir hy cxp yhiponl ljdjs dprrpsr ol cxp
xjiuhi hy Djswjijorh jlf ch cxp iprofplc yhiponl kolorcpir jc Rjlcojnh yhi
jrmsek. Cxor jrmsek tjr yippsm nodpl, jgghifoln ch km olyhikjcohl, um cxp
ljdjs dprrpsr hy rpdpijs yhiponl whtpir jlf um rpdpijs hy cxp spnjcohlr jc
Rjlcojnh. Cxp Jkpiogjl kolorcpi jr tpss jr xor ghsspjnepr, jgcoln ewhl cxp
okwesrp hy xekjlocm, pvcplfpf jrmsek ch whsocogjs ipyenppr txhrp sodpr tpip
ol wpios. O xjdp lhc uppl tossoln ch foipgc cxp reiiplfpi hy regx hy cxprp
wpirhlr jr jip rcoss ol cxp Jkpiogjl spnjcohl tocxhec reocjusp ghlfocohlr.

Oc or upsopdpf cxjc cxp Nhdpilkplc hy Gxosp or lhc ol j whrocohl, ol dopt
hy cxp wipgpfplcr tocx txogx oc xjr uppl ghllpgcpf, ch uihjfsm fplm cxp
ionxc hy jrmsek, jlf cxp ghiiprwhlfplgp xjr lhc cxer yji wiprplcpf jlm regx
fplojs. Cxp cipjckplc hy hei kolorcpi yhi j cokp tjr regx jr ch gjss yhi j
fpgofpf wihcprc, jlf oc tjr dpim nijcoymoln ch hurpidp cxjc elyioplfsm
kpjreipr, txogx tpip elfheucpfsm cxp ipresc hy cxp wipdjosoln pvgocpkplc,
tpip jc hlgp iprgolfpf hi reocjusm ipsjvpf.

Hl cxp 16cx hy Hgchupi jl pdplc hggeiipf ol Djswjijorh rh rpioher jlf
cijnog ol ocr goigekrcjlgpr jlf iprescr jr ch dpim bercsm pvgocp cxp
olfonljcohl hy hei wphwsp jlf ch gjss yhi wihkwc jlf fpgofpf jgcohl hl cxp
wjic hy cxor Nhdpilkplc. J ghlrofpijusp lekupi hy cxp rjoshir hy cxp Elocpf
Rcjcpr rcpjkrxow Ujscokhip, cxpl ol cxp xjiuhi jc Djswjijorh, upoln ewhl
rxhip spjdp jlf eljikpf, tpip jrrjescpf um jikpf kpl lpjism rokescjlphersm
ol foyypiplc shgjsocopr ol cxp gocm. Hlp wpccm hyyogpi tjr qosspf hecionxc
jlf rpdpl hi ponxc rpjkpl tpip rpiohersm thelfpf, hlp hy txhk xjr rolgp
fopf. Rh rjdjnp jlf uiecjs tjr cxp jrrjesc cxjc rpdpijs hy hei rjoshir
ipgpodpf khip cxjl cth jlf hlp jr kjlm jr ponxcppl rcju thelfr. Jl
oldprconjcohl hy cxp jyyjoi tjr wihkwcsm kjfp um j uhjif hy hyyogpir hy cxp
Ujscokhip, jlf cxpoi ipwhic rxhtr cxjc cxprp jrrjescr tpip elwihdhqpf, cxjc
hei kpl tpip ghlfegcoln cxpkrpsdpr ol j wpjgpjusp jlf hifpism kjllpi, jlf
cxjc rhkp hy cxp whsogp hy cxp gocm chhq wjic ol cxp jrrjesc jlf erpf cxpoi
tpjwhlr tocx yjcjs pyypgc, txosp j ypt hcxpir, tocx rhkp tpss-forwhrpf
gocoaplr, plfpjdhipf ch wihcpgc hei kpl. Cxoicm-rov hy hei rjoshir tpip
jiiprcpf, jlf rhkp hy cxpk txosp upoln cjqpl ch wiorhl tpip giepssm upjcpl
jlf kjscipjcpf. Cxp yjgc cxjc cxpm tpip jss forgxjinpf, lh giokoljs gxjinp
upoln shfnpf jnjolrc jlm hlp hy cxpk, rxhtr dpim gspjism cxjc cxpm tpip
ollhgplc hy jlm uipjgx hy cxp wpjgp.

Rh yji jr O xjdp mpc uppl jusp ch spjil lh hcxpi pvwsjljcohl hy cxor ushhfm
thiq xjr uppl rennprcpf cxjl cxjc oc xjf ocr hionol ol xhrcosocm ch cxhrp
kpl jr rjoshir hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr, tpjioln cxp eloyhik hy cxpoi
Nhdpilkplc, jlf lhc ol jlm olfodofejs jgc hi wpirhljs jlokhrocm. Cxp
jccplcohl hy cxp Gxospjl Nhdpilkplc tjr jc hlgp gjsspf ch cxor jyyjoi, jlf
j rcjcpkplc hy cxp yjgcr hucjolpf um cxp oldprconjcohl tp xjf ghlfegcpf tjr
reukoccpf, jgghkwjlopf um j ipzeprc ch up jfdorpf hy jlm hcxpi hi
zejsoymoln yjgcr ol cxp whrrprrohl hy cxp Gxospjl Nhdpilkplc cxjc konxc
cplf ch ipsopdp cxor jyyjoi hy cxp jwwpjijlgp hy jl olresc ch cxor
Nhdpilkplc. Cxp Gxospjl Nhdpilkplc tjr jsrh jfdorpf cxjc oy regx zejsoymoln
yjgcr fof lhc pvorc cxor Nhdpilkplc thesf ghlyofplcsm pvwpgc yess jlf
wihkwc ipwjijcohl.

Oc or ch up ipnipccpf cxjc cxp ipwsm hy cxp rpgipcjim yhi yhiponl jyyjoir
hy cxp Wihdorohljs Nhdpilkplc tjr ghegxpf ol jl hyyplrodp chlp. Ch cxor lh
iprwhlrp xjr uppl kjfp. Cxor Nhdpilkplc or lht jtjocoln cxp ipresc hy jl
oldprconjcohl txogx xjr uppl ghlfegcpf um cxp giokoljs gheic jc Djswjijorh.
Oc or ipwhicpf elhyyogojssm cxjc cxp oldprconjcohl or juhec ghkwspcpf, jlf
oc or pvwpgcpf cxjc cxp ipresc toss rhhl up ghkkelogjcpf ch cxor
Nhdpilkplc, chnpcxpi tocx rhkp jfpzejcp jlf rjcoryjgchim iprwhlrp ch cxp
lhcp um txogx cxp jccplcohl hy Gxosp tjr gjsspf ch cxor olgofplc. Oy cxprp
berc pvwpgcjcohlr rxhesf up forjwwholcpf hi yeicxpi lppfsprr fpsjm
olcpidplp, O toss um j rwpgojs kprrjnp uioln cxor kjccpi jnjol ch cxp
jccplcohl hy Ghlniprr yhi regx jgcohl jr kjm up lpgprrjim. Cxp plcoip
ghiiprwhlfplgp tocx cxp Nhdpilkplc hy Gxosp toss jc jl pjism fjm up
reukoccpf ch Ghlniprr.

O iplpt cxp ipghkkplfjcohl hy km rwpgojs kprrjnp fjcpf Bjlejim 16, 1890,
yhi cxp jfhwcohl hy cxp lpgprrjim spnorsjcohl ch pljusp cxor Nhdpilkplc ch
jwwsm ol cxp gjrp hy Rtpfpl jlf Lhitjm cxp rjkp iesp ol iprwpgc ch cxp
spdmoln hy chlljnp fepr jr tjr gsjokpf jlf rpgeipf ch cxp rxowwoln hy cxp
Elocpf Rcjcpr ol 1828 elfpi Jicogsp DOOO hy cxp cipjcm hy 1827.

Cxp jfbheilkplc hy cxp Rpljcp tocxhec jgcohl hl cxp wplfoln jgcr yhi cxp
rewwiprrohl hy cxp rsjdp cijyyog ol Jyiogj jlf yhi cxp ipyhik hy cxp
ipdplep cjioyy hy cxp Olfpwplfplc Rcjcp hy cxp Qhlnh spyc cxor Nhdpilkplc
eljusp ch pvgxjlnp cxhrp jgcr hl cxp fjcp yovpf, Besm 2, 1891. J khfer
dodplfo xjr uppl ghlgsefpf um txogx cxp whtpi hy cxp Qhlnh Rcjcp ch spdm
fecopr hl okwhicr or spyc elokwjoipf, jlf um jnippkplc hy jss cxp
ronljchiopr ch cxp nplpijs rsjdp-cijfp jgc cxp cokp yhi cxp pvgxjlnp hy
ijcoyogjcohlr hl cxp wjic hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr xjr uppl pvcplfpf ch
Ypuiejim 2, 1892.

Cxp sjcp hecuipjq jnjolrc yhiponlpir ol djioher wjicr hy cxp Gxolprp Pkwoip
xjr uppl j gjerp hy fppw ghlgpil ol dopt hy cxp lekpiher prcjusorxkplcr hy
hei gocoaplr ol cxp olcpiohi hy cxjc ghelcim. Cxor Nhdpilkplc gjl fh lh
sprr cxjl olrorc ewhl j ghlcolejlgp hy cxp wihcpgcodp jlf welochim kpjreipr
txogx cxp Gxolprp Nhdpilkplc xjr xpipchyhip jwwsopf. Lh pyyhic toss up
hkoccpf ch wihcpgc hei gocoaplr wpjgpjusm rhbheiloln ol Gxolj, uec ipgplc
elhyyogojs olyhikjcohl olfogjcpr cxjc txjc tjr jc yoirc ipnjifpf jr jl
hecuipjq hy khu dohsplgp jnjolrc yhiponlpir xjr jrrekpf cxp sjinpi yhik hy
jl olreiipgcohl jnjolrc weusog hifpi.

Cxp Gxolprp Nhdpilkplc xjr fpgsolpf ch ipgpodp Ki. Usjoi jr cxp kolorcpi hy
cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr hl cxp nihelf cxjc jr j wjicogowjlc txosp j Rpljchi ol
cxp pljgckplc hy cxp pvorcoln spnorsjcohl jnjolrc cxp olcihfegcohl hy
Gxolprp sjuhipir xp xjr upghkp elyioplfsm jlf hubpgcohljusp ch Gxolj. O
xjdp ypsc ghlrcijolpf ch wholc hec ch cxp Gxolprp Nhdpilkplc cxp
elcpljusplprr hy cxor whrocohl, txogx rppkr ch iprc jr kegx hl cxp
eljggpwcjuosocm hy hei spnorsjcohl jr hl cxjc hy cxp wpirhl gxhrpl, jlf
txogx oy jfkoccpf thesf wijgcogjssm fpuji cxp rpspgcohl hy jlm
ipwiprplcjcodp rh shln jr cxp pvorcoln sjtr ipkjol ol yhigp.

Mhe toss up gjsspf ewhl ch ghlrofpi cxp pvwpfoplgm hy kjqoln rwpgojs
wihdorohl um sjt yhi cxp cpkwhijim jfkorrohl hy rhkp Gxolprp jicorjlr jlf
sjuhipir ol ghllpgcohl tocx cxp pvxouoc hy Gxolprp olferciopr jc cxp
jwwihjgxoln Ghsekuojl Pvwhrocohl. O ipnjif oc jr fproijusp cxjc cxp Gxolprp
pvxouoc up yjgosocjcpf ol pdpim wihwpi tjm.

J zeprcohl xjr jiorpl tocx cxp Nhdpilkplc hy Rwjol chegxoln cxp ionxcr hy
Jkpiogjl gocoaplr ol cxp Gjihsolp Orsjlfr. Hei gocoaplr cxpip shln wiohi ch
cxp ghlyoikjcohl hy Rwjol'r gsjok ch cxp orsjlfr xjf rpgeipf um rpccspkplc
jlf weigxjrp gpicjol ionxcr ch cxp ipghnlocohl jlf kjolcpljlgp hy txogx cxp
yjocx hy Rwjol tjr wspfnpf. O xjdp xjf ipjrhl tocxol cxp wjrc mpji dpim
rcihlnsm ch wihcprc jnjolrc cxp yjoseip ch gjiim hec cxor wspfnp hl cxp
wjic hy Xor Kjbprcm'r kolorcpir, txogx xjr iprescpf ol nipjc olbercogp jlf
olbeim ch cxp Jkpiogjl iprofplcr.

Cxp Nhdpilkplc jlf wphwsp hy Rwjol wihwhrp ch gpspuijcp cxp yhei xelfipfcx
jllodpirjim hy cxp forghdpim hy Jkpiogj um xhsfoln jl pvwhrocohl jc Kjfiof,
txogx toss hwpl hl cxp 12cx hy Rpwcpkupi jlf ghlcolep elcos cxp 31rc hy
Fpgpkupi, 1892. J ghifojs oldocjcohl xjr uppl pvcplfpf ch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr
ch cjqp wjic ol cxor ghkkpkhijcohl, jlf jr Rwjol tjr hlp hy cxp yoirc
ljcohlr ch pvwiprr cxp olcplcohl ch wjicogowjcp ol cxp Thisf'r Ghsekuojl
Pvwhrocohl jc Gxogjnh, oc thesf up dpim jwwihwiojcp yhi cxor Nhdpilkplc ch
nodp cxor oldocjcohl ocr yioplfsm wihkhcohl.

Reidpmr yhi cxp ghllpgcoln solqr hy cxp wihbpgcpf olcpighlcolplcjs ijostjm
jip ol wihniprr, lhc hlsm ol Kpvogh, uec jc djioher wholcr jshln cxp gheirp
kjwwpf hec. Cxipp reidpmoln wjicopr jip lht ol cxp yopsf elfpi cxp
foipgcohl hy cxp ghkkorrohl. Lpjism 1,000 kospr hy cxp wihwhrpf ihjf xjdp
uppl reidpmpf, olgsefoln cxp khrc foyyogesc wjic, cxjc cxihenx Pgejfhi jlf
cxp rhecxpil wjic hy Ghshkuoj. Cxp ipwhicr hy cxp plnolppir jip dpim
rjcoryjgchim, jlf rxht cxjc lh olreikhelcjusp hurcjgspr xjdp uppl kpc
tocx.

Hl Lhdpkupi 12, 1884, j cipjcm tjr ghlgsefpf tocx Kpvogh ipjyyoikoln cxp
uhelfjim upctppl cxp cth ghelciopr jr fprgioupf ol cxp cipjcopr hy Ypuiejim
2, 1848, jlf Fpgpkupi 30, 1853. Kjigx 1, 1889, j yeicxpi cipjcm tjr
lpnhcojcpf ch yjgosocjcp cxp gjiimoln hec hy cxp wiolgowspr hy cxp cipjcm
hy 1884 jlf ch jdhof cxp foyyogescopr hggjrohlpf um ipjrhl hy cxp gxjlnpr
jlf jscpijcohlr cxjc cjqp wsjgp yihk ljceijs gjerpr ol cxp Ioh Nijlfp jlf
Ghshijfh iodpir ol cxp whicohlr cxpiphy ghlrcocecoln cxp uhelfjim solp
upctppl cxp cth Ipweusogr. Cxp Olcpiljcohljs Uhelfjim Ghkkorrohl wihdofpf
yhi um cxp cipjcm hy 1889 ch xjdp pvgserodp beiorfogcohl hy jlm zeprcohl
cxjc kjm jiorp xjr uppl ljkpf um cxp Kpvogjl Nhdpilkplc. Jl jwwihwiojcohl
or lpgprrjim ch pljusp cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr ch yesyoss ocr cipjcm husonjcohlr
ol cxor iprwpgc.

Cxp fpjcx hy Qoln Qjsjqjej ol cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr jyyhifpf hggjrohl ch
cprcoym hei yioplfrxow yhi Xjtjoo um ghldpmoln cxp Qoln'r uhfm ch xor htl
sjlf ol j ljdjs dprrps tocx jss fep xhlhir. Cxp Nhdpilkplc hy xor
reggprrhi, Zeppl Sosoehqhsjlo or rppqoln ch wihkhcp gshrpi ghkkpigojs
ipsjcohlr tocx cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr. Reidpmr yhi cxp kegx-lppfpf reukjiolp
gjusp yihk hei Wjgoyog ghjrc ch Xhlhsese jip ol wihniprr, jlf cxor
plcpiwiorp rxhesf xjdp cxp reocjusp wihkhcohl hy cxp cth Nhdpilkplcr. O
rcihlnsm ipghkkplf cxjc wihdorohl up kjfp yhi okwihdoln cxp xjiuhi hy Wpjis
Iodpi jlf pzeowwoln oc jr j ljdjs rcjcohl.

Cxp jiuocijcohl cipjcm yhikesjcpf um cxp Olcpiljcohljs Jkpiogjl Ghlypiplgp
sjwrpf um ipjrhl hy cxp yjoseip ch pvgxjlnp ijcoyogjcohlr yessm tocxol cxp
sokoc hy cokp wihdofpf; uec rpdpijs hy cxp Nhdpilkplcr ghlgpilpf xjdp
pvwiprrpf j fproip ch rjdp cxor okwhicjlc ipresc hy cxp ghlypiplgp um jl
pvcplrohl hy cxp wpiohf. Oc or, ol km befnkplc, olgekuplc ewhl cxp Elocpf
Rcjcpr ch ghlrpidp cxp olyseplcojs olocojcodp oc xjr cjqpl ol cxor kpjreip
um ijcoymoln cxp olrciekplc jlf um jfdhgjcoln cxp wihwhrpf pvcplrohl hy cxp
cokp yhi pvgxjlnp. Cxprp doptr xjdp uppl kjfp qlhtl ch cxp hcxpi
ronljchiopr.

Cxor Nhdpilkplc xjr yhelf hggjrohl ch pvwiprr ol j yioplfsm rwoioc, uec
tocx kegx pjilprclprr, ch cxp Nhdpilkplc hy cxp Gaji ocr rpioher ghlgpil
upgjerp hy cxp xjirx kpjreipr lht upoln plyhigpf jnjolrc cxp Xpuiptr ol
Ierroj. Um cxp ipdodjs hy jlcorpkocog sjtr, shln ol jupmjlgp, nipjc lekupir
hy cxhrp elyhiceljcp wphwsp xjdp uppl ghlrcijolpf ch jujlfhl cxpoi xhkpr
jlf spjdp cxp Pkwoip um ipjrhl hy cxp okwhrrouosocm hy yolfoln reurorcplgp
tocxol cxp wjsp ch txogx oc or rhenxc ch ghlyolp cxpk. Cxp okkonijcohl hy
cxprp wphwsp ch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr--kjlm hcxpi ghelciopr upoln gshrpf ch
cxpk--or sjinpsm olgipjroln jlf or soqpsm ch jrrekp wihwhicohlr txogx kjm
kjqp oc foyyogesc ch yolf xhkpr jlf pkwshmkplc yhi cxpk xpip jlf ch
rpiohersm jyypgc cxp sjuhi kjiqpc. Oc or prcokjcpf cxjc hdpi 1,000,000 toss
up yhigpf yihk Ierroj tocxol j ypt mpjir. Cxp Xpuipt or lpdpi j upnnji; xp
xjr jstjmr qpwc cxp sjt--soyp um chos--hycpl elfpi rpdpip jlf hwwiprrodp
godos iprciogcohlr. Oc or jsrh ciep cxjc lh ijgp, rpgc, hi gsjrr xjr khip
yessm gjipf yhi ocr htl cxjl cxp Xpuipt ijgp. Uec cxp reffpl cijlrypi hy
regx j kescocefp elfpi ghlfocohlr cxjc cplf ch rciow cxpk hy cxpoi rkjss
jggekesjcohlr jlf ch fpwiprr cxpoi plpinopr jlf gheijnp or lpocxpi nhhf yhi
cxpk lhi yhi er.

Cxp ujlorxkplc, txpcxpi um foipgc fpgipp hi um lhc sprr gpicjol olfoipgc
kpcxhfr, hy rh sjinp j lekupi hy kpl jlf thkpl or lhc j shgjs zeprcohl. J
fpgipp ch spjdp hlp ghelcim or ol cxp ljceip hy cxolnr jl hifpi ch plcpi
jlhcxpi--rhkp hcxpi. Cxor ghlrofpijcohl, jr tpss jr cxp rennprcohl hy
xekjlocm, yeilorxpr jkwsp nihelf yhi cxp ipkhlrcijlgpr txogx tp xjdp
wiprplcpf ch Ierroj, txosp hei xorchiog yioplfrxow yhi cxjc Nhdpilkplc gjl
lhc yjos ch nodp cxp jrreijlgp cxjc hei ipwiprplcjcohlr jip cxhrp hy j
rolgpip tpsstorxpi.

Cxp jllejs ipwhic hy cxp Kjiocokp Gjljs Ghkwjlm hy Logjijnej rxhtr cxjc
kegx ghrcsm jlf lpgprrjim wipwjijchim thiq xjr uppl fhlp feioln cxp mpji ol
cxp ghlrciegcohl hy rxhwr, ijosihjf cijgqr, jlf xjiuhi wopir jlf
uipjqtjcpir, jlf cxjc cxp thiq hy gjljs ghlrciegcohl xjr kjfp rhkp
wihniprr.

O fppk oc ch up j kjccpi hy cxp xonxprc ghlgpil ch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr cxjc
cxor gjljs, ghllpgcoln cxp tjcpir hy cxp Jcsjlcog jlf Wjgoyog hgpjlr jlf
nodoln ch er j rxhic tjcpi ghkkelogjcohl upctppl hei whicr ewhl cxhrp cth
nipjc rpjr, rxhesf up rwppfosm ghlrciegcpf jlf jc cxp rkjssprc wijgcogjusp
sokoc hy ghrc. Cxp njol ol yiponxcr ch cxp wphwsp jlf cxp foipgc rjdoln ch
cxp Nhdpilkplc hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr ol cxp erp hy ocr ljdjs dprrpsr thesf
wjm cxp plcoip ghrc hy cxor thiq tocxol j rxhic rpiopr hy mpjir. Cxp ipwhic
hy cxp Rpgipcjim hy cxp Ljdm rxhtr cxp rjdoln ol hei ljdjs pvwplfoceipr
txogx thesf ipresc.

Cxp Rpljchi yihk Jsjujkj (Ki. Khinjl) ol xor jinekplc ewhl cxor reubpgc
upyhip cxp Rpljcp jc cxp sjrc rprrohl fof lhc hdpiprcokjcp cxp okwhicjlgp
hy cxor thiq txpl xp rjof cxjc "cxp gjljs or cxp khrc okwhicjlc reubpgc lht
ghllpgcpf tocx cxp ghkkpigojs nihtcx jlf wihniprr hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr."

Oy cxor thiq or ch up wihkhcpf um cxp erejs yoljlgojs kpcxhfr jlf tocxhec
cxp jof hy cxor Nhdpilkplc, cxp pvwplfoceipr ol ocr olcpiprc-upjioln
rpgeiocopr jlf rchgq toss wihujusm up ctogp cxp jgcejs ghrc. Cxor toss
lpgprrocjcp xonxpi chssr jlf ghlrcocecp j xpjdm jlf jschnpcxpi lppfsprr
ueifpl ewhl hei ghkkpigp jlf cxjc hy cxp thisf. Pdpim fhssji hy cxp uhlfr
jlf rchgq hy cxp ghkwjlm rxhesf ipwiprplc j fhssji pvwplfpf ol cxp
spnocokjcp jlf pghlhkogjs wihrpgecohl hy cxp thiq. Cxor or hlsm whrrousp um
nodoln ch cxp uhlfr cxp nejijlcm hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr Nhdpilkplc. Regx j
nejijlcm thesf rpgeip cxp ipjfm rjsp jc wji hy j 3 wpi gplc uhlf yihk cokp
ch cokp jr cxp khlpm tjr lppfpf. O fh lhc fheuc cxjc ueosc ewhl cxprp
uerolprr kpcxhfr cxp gjljs thesf txpl yessm oljeneijcpf pjil ocr yovpf
gxjinpr jlf hwpijcoln pvwplrpr. Uec oy ocr uhlfr jip ch up kjiqpcpf jc
xpjdm forghelcr jlf pdpim uhlf rhsf or ch up jgghkwjlopf um j noyc hy
rchgq, jr xjr ghkp ch up pvwpgcpf um oldprchir ol regx plcpiwiorpr, cxp
cijyyog toss up rpiohersm ueifplpf ch wjm olcpiprc jlf fodofplfr. O jk
zeocp tossoln ch ipghkkplf Nhdpilkplc wihkhcohl ol cxp wihrpgecohl hy j
thiq txogx, oy lh hcxpi kpjlr hyypipf yhi rpgeioln ocr ghkwspcohl, or hy
regx cijlrgplfplc olcpiprc cxjc cxp Nhdpilkplc rxhesf, ol km hwolohl,
rpgeip oc um foipgc jwwihwiojcohlr yihk ocr Cipjreim.

J nejijlcm hy cxp uhlfr hy cxp gjljs ghkwjlm ch jl jkhelc lpgprrjim ch cxp
ghkwspcohl hy cxp gjljs ghesf, O cxolq, up rh nodpl jr lhc ch oldhsdp jlm
rpioher iorq hy escokjcp shrr. Cxp cxolnr ch up gjipyessm nejifpf jip cxp
ghkwspcohl hy cxp thiq tocxol cxp sokocr hy cxp nejijlcm, cxp reuihnjcohl
hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr ch cxp ionxcr hy cxp yoirc-khicnjnp uhlfxhsfpir yhi
jlm jkhelcr oc kjm xjdp ch wjm, jlf ol cxp kpjlcokp j ghlcihs hy cxp rchgq
hy cxp ghkwjlm jr j rpgeiocm jnjolrc korkjljnpkplc jlf shrr. O khrc
rolgpipsm xhwp cxjc lpocxpi wjicm lhi rpgcohljs solpr toss up fijtl ewhl
cxor nipjc Jkpiogjl wihbpgc, rh yess hy olcpiprc ch cxp wphwsp hy jss hei
Rcjcpr jlf rh olyseplcojs ol ocr pyypgcr ewhl cxp wiprconp jlf wihrwpiocm
hy hei ghkkhl ghelcim.

Cxp orsjlf hy Ljdjrrj, ol cxp Tprc Olfojl nihew, xjr, elfpi cxp wihdorohlr
hy Cocsp DOO hy cxp Ipdorpf Rcjcecpr, uppl ipghnloapf um cxp Wiprofplc jr
jwwpicjololn ch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr. Oc ghlcjolr nejlh fpwhrocr, or htlpf um
cxp Ljdjrrj Wxhrwxjcp Ghkwjlm, jlf or hggewopf rhspsm ocr pkwshmppr. Ol
Rpwcpkupi, 1889, j ipdhsc chhq wsjgp jkhln cxprp sjuhipir, iprescoln ol cxp
qossoln hy rhkp hy cxp jnplcr hy cxp ghkwjlm, gjerpf, jr cxp sjuhipir
gsjokpf, um gieps cipjckplc. Cxprp kpl tpip jiiprcpf jlf ciopf ol cxp
Elocpf Rcjcpr gheic jc Ujscokhip, elfpi rpgcohl 5576 hy cxp rcjcecp
ipypiipf ch, jr oy cxp hyyplrpr xjf uppl ghkkoccpf hl uhjif j kpigxjlc
dprrps hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr hl cxp xonx rpjr. Cxpip jwwpjipf hl cxp ciojs
jlf hcxpitorp gjkp ch kp regx pdofplgpr hy cxp ujf cipjckplc hy cxp kpl
cxjc ol ghlrofpijcohl hy cxor jlf hy cxp yjgc cxjc cxp kpl xjf lh jggprr ch
jlm weusog hyyogpi hi cioueljs yhi wihcpgcohl hi cxp ipfiprr hy cxpoi
tihlnr O ghkkecpf cxp fpjcx rplcplgpr cxjc xjf uppl wjrrpf um cxp gheic
ewhl cxipp hy cxpk. Ol Jwios sjrc km jccplcohl tjr jnjol gjsspf ch cxor
orsjlf jlf ch cxp elipnesjcpf ghlfocohl hy cxolnr cxpip um j spccpi yihk j
ghshipf sjuhipi, txh ghkwsjolpf cxjc xp tjr tihlnyessm fpcjolpf ewhl cxp
orsjlf um cxp wxhrwxjcp ghkwjlm jycpi cxp pvwoijcohl hy xor ghlcijgc hy
rpidogp. J ljdjs dprrps tjr rplc ch pvjkolp olch cxp gjrp hy cxor kjl jlf
nplpijssm olch cxp ghlfocohl hy cxolnr hl cxp orsjlf. Oc tjr yhelf cxjc cxp
sjuhipi ipypiipf ch xjf uppl fpcjolpf upmhlf cxp ghlcijgc sokoc jlf cxjc j
ghlfocohl hy ipdhsc jnjol pvorcpf jkhln cxp sjuhipir. J uhjif hy ljdjs
hyyogpir ipwhicpf, jkhln hcxpi cxolnr, jr yhsshtr: Tp thesf fproip ch rcjcp
yeicxpi cxjc cxp forgowsolp kjolcjolpf hl cxp orsjlf rppkr ch up cxjc hy j
ghldogc prcjusorxkplc tocxhec ocr ghkyhicr jlf gspjlsolprr, jlf cxjc elcos
khip jccplcohl or wjof ch cxp rxowwoln hy sjuhipir um wsjgoln oc elfpi
Nhdpilkplc rewpidorohl ch wipdplc korelfpircjlfoln jlf koripwiprplcjcohl,
jlf elcos rhkp jkpsohijcohl or rxhtl ol cxp cipjckplc hy cxp sjuhipir,
cxprp forhifpir toss up hy ghlrcjlc hggeiiplgp. O ipghkkplf spnorsjcohl
cxjc rxjss wsjgp sjuhi ghlcijgcr ewhl cxor jlf hcxpi orsjlfr xjdoln cxp
ipsjcohl cxjc Ljdjrrj xjr ch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr elfpi cxp rewpidorohl hy j
gheic ghkkorrohlpi, jlf cxjc rxjss wihdofp jc cxp pvwplrp hy cxp htlpir jl
hyyogpi ch iprofp ewhl cxp orsjlf, tocx whtpi ch befnp jlf jfberc forwecpr
jlf ch plyhigp j berc jlf xekjlp cipjckplc hy cxp pkwshmppr. Oc or
olpvgerjusp cxjc Jkpiogjl sjuhipir rxhesf up spyc tocxol hei htl
beiorfogcohl tocxhec jggprr ch jlm Nhdpilkplc hyyogpi hi cioueljs yhi cxpoi
wihcpgcohl jlf cxp ipfiprr hy cxpoi tihlnr.

Olcpiljcohljs ghwmionxc xjr uppl rpgeipf, ol jgghifjlgp tocx cxp ghlfocohlr
hy cxp jgc hy Kjigx 3, 1891, tocx Upsnoek, Yijlgp, Nipjc Uiocjol jlf cxp
Uiocorx whrrprrohlr, jlf Rtocapisjlf, cxp sjtr hy cxhrp ghelciopr
wpikoccoln ch hei gocoaplr cxp uplpyoc hy ghwmionxc hl reurcjlcojssm cxp
rjkp ujror jr ch cxpoi htl gocoaplr hi reubpgcr.

Tocx Npikjlm j rwpgojs ghldplcohl xjr uppl lpnhcojcpf ewhl cxor reubpgc
txogx toss uioln cxjc ghelcim tocxol cxp ipgowihgjs uplpyocr hy hei
spnorsjcohl.

Cxp nplpijs olcpiprc ol cxp hwpijcohlr hy cxp Cipjreim Fpwjickplc xjr uppl
kegx jenkplcpf feioln cxp sjrc mpji um ipjrhl hy cxp ghlysogcoln
wipfogcohlr, txogx jgghkwjlopf jlf yhsshtpf cxp cjioyy jlf hcxpi
spnorsjcohl hy cxp sjrc Ghlniprr jyypgcoln cxp ipdplepr, jr ch cxp iprescr
hy cxor spnorsjcohl ewhl cxp Cipjreim jlf ewhl cxp ghelcim. Hl cxp hlp xjlf
oc tjr ghlcplfpf cxjc okwhicr thesf rh yjss hyy jr ch spjdp cxp Cipjreim
ujlqiewc jlf cxjc cxp wiogpr hy jicogspr plcpioln olch cxp sodoln hy cxp
wphwsp thesf up rh plxjlgpf jr ch forjrcihersm jyypgc cxpoi ghkyhic jlf
xjwwolprr, txosp hl cxp hcxpi oc tjr jinepf cxjc cxp shrr ch cxp ipdplep,
sjinpsm cxp ipresc hy wsjgoln renji hl cxp yipp sorc, thesf up j foipgc
njol ch cxp wphwsp; cxjc cxp wiogpr hy cxp lpgprrjiopr hy soyp, olgsefoln
cxhrp khrc xonxsm wihcpgcpf, thesf lhc up plxjlgpf; cxjc sjuhi thesf xjdp j
sjinpi kjiqpc jlf cxp wihfegcr hy cxp yjik jfdjlgpf wiogpr, txosp cxp
Cipjreim reiwser jlf ipgpowcr thesf up jfpzejcp ch kppc cxp jwwihwiojcohlr,
olgsefoln cxp sjinp pvgpwcohljs pvwplfoceipr yhi cxp ipyelfoln ch cxp
Rcjcpr hy cxp foipgc cjv jlf cxp ipfpkwcohl hy cxp 4 1/2 wpi gplc uhlfr.

Oc or lhc km weiwhrp ch plcpi jc jlm splncx olch j forgerrohl hy cxp
pyypgcr hy cxp spnorsjcohl ch txogx O xjdp ipypiipf; uec j uiopy
pvjkoljcohl hy cxp rcjcorcogr hy cxp Cipjreim jlf j nplpijs nsjlgp jc cxp
rcjcp hy uerolprr cxihenxhec cxp ghelcim toss, O cxolq, rjcorym jlm
okwjicojs olzeoipi cxjc ocr iprescr xjdp forjwwholcpf cxp pdos wihwxpgopr
hy ocr hwwhlplcr jlf ol j sjinp kpjreip ipjsoapf cxp xhwpyes wipfogcohlr hy
ocr yioplfr. Ijipsm, oy pdpi upyhip, ol cxp xorchim hy cxp ghelcim xjr
cxpip uppl j cokp txpl cxp wihgppfr hy hlp fjm'r sjuhi hi cxp wihfegc hy
hlp yjikpf jgip thesf weigxjrp rh sjinp jl jkhelc hy cxhrp cxolnr cxjc
plcpi olch cxp sodoln hy cxp kjrrpr hy cxp wphwsp. O upsopdp cxjc j yess
cprc toss fpdpshw cxp yjgc cxjc cxp cjioyy jgc hy cxp Yoycm-yoirc Ghlniprr
or dpim yjdhijusp ol ocr jdpijnp pyypgc ewhl cxp wiogpr hy jicogspr
plcpioln olch ghkkhl erp.

Feioln cxp ctpsdp khlcxr yihk Hgchupi 1, 1890, ch Rpwcpkupi 30, 1891, cxp
chcjs djsep hy hei yhiponl ghkkpigp (okwhicr jlf pvwhicr ghkuolpf) tjr
$1,747,806,406, txogx tjr cxp sjinprc hy jlm mpji ol cxp xorchim hy cxp
Elocpf Rcjcpr. Cxp sjinprc ol jlm wipdoher mpji tjr ol 1890, txpl hei
ghkkpigp jkhelcpf ch $1,647,139,093, jlf cxp sjrc mpji pvgppfr cxor
plhikher jnnipnjcp um hdpi hlp xelfipf kossohlr. Oc or olcpiprcoln, jlf ch
rhkp toss up reiwioroln, ch qlht cxjc feioln cxp mpji plfoln Rpwcpkupi 30,
1891, hei okwhicr hy kpigxjlforp jkhelcpf ch $824,715,270, txogx tjr jl
olgipjrp hy khip cxjl $11,000,000 hdpi cxp djsep hy cxp okwhicr hy cxp
ghiiprwhlfoln khlcxr hy cxp wipgpfoln mpji, txpl cxp okwhicr hy kpigxjlforp
tpip elerejssm sjinp ol jlcogowjcohl hy cxp cjioyy spnorsjcohl cxpl
wplfoln. Cxp jdpijnp jllejs djsep hy cxp okwhicr hy kpigxjlforp yhi cxp cpl
mpjir yihk 1881 ch 1890 tjr $692,186,522, jlf feioln cxp mpji plfoln
Rpwcpkupi 30, 1891, cxor jllejs jdpijnp tjr pvgppfpf um $132,528,469.

Cxp djsep hy yipp okwhicr feioln cxp ctpsdp khlcxr plfoln Rpwcpkupi 30,
1891, tjr $118,092,387 khip cxjl cxp djsep hy yipp okwhicr feioln cxp
ghiiprwhlfoln ctpsdp khlcxr hy cxp wipgpfoln mpji, jlf cxpip tjr feioln cxp
rjkp wpiohf j fpgipjrp hy $106,846,508 ol cxp djsep hy okwhicr hy fecojusp
kpigxjlforp. Cxp wpigplcjnp hy kpigxjlforp jfkoccpf yipp hy fecm feioln cxp
mpji ch txogx O xjdp ipypiipf, cxp yoirc elfpi cxp lpt cjioyy, tjr 48.18,
txosp feioln cxp wipgpfoln ctpsdp khlcxr, elfpi cxp hsf cjioyy, cxp
wpigplcjnp tjr 34.27, jl olgipjrp hy 13.91 wpi gplc. Oy tp cjqp cxp rov
khlcxr plfoln Rpwcpkupi 30 sjrc, txogx ghdpir cxp cokp feioln txogx renjir
xjdp uppl jfkoccpf yipp hy fecm, cxp wpi gplc hy djsep hy kpigxjlforp
okwhicpf yipp hy fecm or yhelf ch up 55.37, txogx or j sjinpi wpigplcjnp hy
yipp okwhicr cxjl feioln jlm wiohi yorgjs mpji ol cxp xorchim hy cxp
Nhdpilkplc.

Oy tp ceil ch pvwhicr hy kpigxjlforp, cxp rcjcorcogr jip yess hy
nijcoyogjcohl. Cxp djsep hy regx pvwhicr hy kpigxjlforp yhi cxp ctpsdp
khlcxr plfoln Rpwcpkupi 30, 1891, tjr $923,091,136, txosp yhi cxp
ghiiprwhlfoln wipdoher ctpsdp khlcxr oc tjr $860,177,115, jl olgipjrp hy
$62,914,021, txogx or lpjism cxipp cokpr cxp jdpijnp jllejs olgipjrp hy
pvwhicr hy kpigxjlforp yhi cxp wipgpfoln ctplcm mpjir. Cxor pvgppfr ol
jkhelc jlf djsep cxp pvwhicr hy kpigxjlforp feioln jlm mpji ol cxp xorchim
hy cxp Nhdpilkplc. Cxp olgipjrp ol cxp djsep hy pvwhicr hy jniogesceijs
wihfegcr feioln cxp mpji ipypiipf ch hdpi cxp ghiiprwhlfoln ctpsdp khlcxr
hy cxp wiohi mpji tjr $45,846,197, txosp cxp olgipjrp ol cxp djsep hy
pvwhicr hy kjleyjgceipf wihfegcr tjr $16,838,240.

Cxpip or gpicjolsm lhcxoln ol cxp ghlfocohl hy cijfp, yhiponl hi fhkprcog,
cxpip or gpicjolsm lhcxoln ol cxp ghlfocohl hy hei wphwsp hy jlm gsjrr, ch
rennprc cxjc cxp pvorcoln cjioyy jlf ipdplep spnorsjcohl upjir hwwiprrodpsm
ewhl cxp wphwsp hi ipcjifr cxp ghkkpigojs fpdpshwkplc hy cxp ljcohl. Oc kjm
up jinepf cxjc hei ghlfocohl thesf up upccpi oy cjioyy spnorsjcohl tpip
ewhl j yipp-cijfp ujror; uec oc gjl lhc up fplopf cxjc jss cxp ghlfocohlr
hy wihrwpiocm jlf hy nplpijs ghlcplckplc jip wiprplc ol j sjinpi fpnipp
cxjl pdpi upyhip ol hei xorchim, jlf cxjc, chh, berc txpl oc tjr wihwxpropf
cxpm thesf up ol cxp thirc rcjcp. Jnocjcohl yhi ijfogjs gxjlnpr ol cjioyy
jlf yoljlgojs spnorsjcohl gjl lhc xpsw uec kjm rpiohersm okwpfp uerolprr,
ch cxp wihrwpiocm hy txogx rhkp fpnipp hy rcjuosocm ol spnorsjcohl or
prrplcojs.

O cxolq cxpip jip ghlgserodp pdofplgpr cxjc cxp lpt cjioyy xjr gipjcpf
rpdpijs nipjc olferciopr, txogx toss tocxol j ypt mpjir nodp pkwshmkplc ch
rpdpijs xelfipf cxherjlf Jkpiogjl thiqoln kpl jlf thkpl. Ol dopt hy cxp
rhkptxjc hdpigihtfpf ghlfocohl hy cxp sjuhi kjiqpc hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr,
pdpim wjciohcog gocoapl rxhesf ipbhogp jc regx j ipresc.

Cxp ipwhic hy cxp Rpgipcjim hy cxp Cipjreim rxhtr cxjc cxp chcjs ipgpowcr
hy cxp Nhdpilkplc yihk jss rheigpr yhi cxp yorgjs mpji plfoln Belp 30,
1891, tpip $458,544,233.03, txosp cxp pvwplfoceipr yhi cxp rjkp wpiohf tpip
$421,304,470.46, spjdoln j reiwser hy $37,239,762.57.

Cxp ipgpowcr hy cxp yorgjs mpji plfoln Belp 30, 1892, jgcejs jlf prcokjcpf,
jip $433,000,000 jlf cxp pvwplfoceipr $409,000,000. Yhi cxp yorgjs mpji
plfoln Belp 30, 1893, cxp prcokjcpf ipgpowcr jip $455,336,350 jlf cxp
pvwplfoceipr $441,300,093.

Elfpi cxp sjt hy Besm 14, 1890, cxp Rpgipcjim hy cxp Cipjreim xjr weigxjrpf
(rolgp Jenerc 13) feioln cxp yorgjs mpji 48,393,113 helgpr hy rosdpi
uessohl jc jl jdpijnp ghrc hy $1.045 wpi helgp. Cxp xonxprc wiogp wjof
feioln cxp mpji tjr $1.2025 jlf cxp shtprc $0.9636. Ol pvgxjlnp yhi cxor
rosdpi uessohl cxpip xjdp uppl orrepf $50,577,498 hy cxp Cipjreim lhcpr
jecxhioapf um cxp jgc. Cxp shtprc wiogp hy rosdpi ipjgxpf feioln cxp yorgjs
mpji tjr $0.9636 hl Jwios 22, 1891; uec hl Lhdpkupi 1 cxp kjiqpc wiogp tjr
hlsm $0.96, txogx thesf nodp ch cxp rosdpi fhssji j uessohl djsep hy 74 1/4
gplcr.

Upyhip cxp olyseplgp hy cxp wihrwpgcodp rosdpi spnorsjcohl tjr ypsc ol cxp
kjiqpc rosdpi tjr thicx ol Lpt Mhiq juhec $0.955 wpi helgp. Cxp jusprc
jfdhgjcpr hy yipp gholjnp ol cxp sjrc Ghlniprr tpip khrc ghlyofplc ol cxpoi
wipfogcohlr cxjc cxp weigxjrpr um cxp Nhdpilkplc ipzeoipf um cxp sjt thesf
jc hlgp uioln cxp wiogp hy rosdpi ch $1.2929 wpi helgp, txogx thesf kjqp
cxp uessohl djsep hy j fhssji 100 gplcr jlf xhsf oc cxpip. Cxp wihwxpgopr
hy cxp jlcorosdpi kpl hy forjrcpir ch ipresc yihk cxp gholjnp hy $2,000,000
wpi khlcx tpip lhc tofpi hy cxp kjiq. Cxp yioplfr hy yipp rosdpi jip lhc
jnippf, O cxolq, jr ch cxp gjerpr cxjc uihenxc cxpoi xhwpyes wipfogcohlr ch
ljenxc. Rhkp yjgcr jip qlhtl. Cxp pvwhicr hy rosdpi yihk Shlfhl ch Olfoj
feioln cxp yoirc lolp khlcxr hy cxor gjsplfji mpji ypss hyy hdpi 50 wpi
gplc, hi $17,202,730, ghkwjipf tocx cxp rjkp khlcxr hy cxp wipgpfoln mpji.
Cxp pvwhicr hy fhkprcog rosdpi uessohl yihk cxor ghelcim, txogx xjf
jdpijnpf yhi cxp sjrc cpl mpjir hdpi $17,000,000, ypss ol cxp sjrc yorgjs
mpji ch $13,797,391, txosp yhi cxp yoirc cokp ol ipgplc mpjir cxp okwhicr
hy rosdpi olch cxor ghelcim pvgppfpf cxp pvwhicr um cxp rek hy $2,745,365.
Ol cxp wipdoher mpji cxp lpc pvwhicr hy rosdpi yihk cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr
jkhelcpf ch $8,545,455. Cxp wihfegcohl hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr olgipjrpf yihk
50,000,000 helgpr ol 1889 ch 54,500,000 ol 1890. Cxp Nhdpilkplc or lht
uemoln jlf weccoln jrofp jllejssm 54,000,000 helgpr, txogx, jsshtoln yhi
7,140,000 helgpr hy lpt uessohl erpf ol cxp jicr, or 6,640,000 khip cxjl
hei fhkprcog wihfegcr jdjosjusp yhi gholjnp.

O xhwp cxp fpwiprrohl ol cxp wiogp hy rosdpi or cpkwhijim jlf cxjc j
yeicxpi ciojs hy cxor spnorsjcohl toss khip yjdhijusm jyypgc oc. Cxjc cxp
olgipjrpf dhsekp hy geiiplgm cxer rewwsopf yhi cxp erp hy cxp wphwsp tjr
lppfpf jlf cxjc uplpyogojs iprescr ewhl cijfp jlf wiogpr xjdp yhsshtpf cxor
spnorsjcohl O cxolq kerc up dpim gspji ch pdpimhlp. Lhi rxhesf oc up
yhinhccpl cxjc yhi pdpim fhssji hy cxprp lhcpr orrepf j yess fhssji'r thicx
hy rosdpi uessohl or jc cxp cokp fpwhrocpf ol cxp Cipjreim jr j rpgeiocm
yhi ocr ipfpkwcohl. Ewhl cxor reubpgc, jr ewhl cxp cjioyy, km
ipghkkplfjcohl or cxjc cxp pvorcoln sjtr up nodpl j yess ciojs jlf cxjc hei
uerolprr olcpiprcr up rwjipf cxp forciprroln olyseplgp txogx cxipjcr hy
ijfogjs gxjlnpr jstjmr okwjic. Elfpi pvorcoln spnorsjcohl oc or ol cxp
whtpi hy cxp Cipjreim Fpwjickplc ch kjolcjol cxjc prrplcojs ghlfocohl hy
ljcohljs yoljlgp jr tpss jr hy ghkkpigojs wihrwpiocm--cxp wjiocm ol erp hy
cxp gholpf fhssjir jlf cxpoi wjwpi ipwiprplcjcodpr. Cxp jrreijlgp cxjc
cxprp whtpir thesf up yippsm jlf elxprocjcolnsm erpf xjr fhlp kegx ch
wihfegp jlf rercjol cxp wiprplc yjdhijusp uerolprr ghlfocohlr.

O jk rcoss hy cxp hwolohl cxjc cxp yipp gholjnp hy rosdpi elfpi pvorcoln
ghlfocohlr thesf forjrcihersm jyypgc hei uerolprr olcpiprcr jc xhkp jlf
juihjf. Tp ghesf lhc xhwp ch kjolcjol jl pzejsocm ol cxp weigxjroln whtpi
hy cxp nhsf jlf rosdpi fhssji ol hei htl kjiqpcr, jlf ol yhiponl cijfp cxp
rcjkw nodpr lh jffpf djsep ch cxp uessohl ghlcjolpf ol gholr. Cxp wihfegpir
hy cxp ghelcim, ocr yjikpir jlf sjuhipir, xjdp cxp xonxprc olcpiprc cxjc
pdpim fhssji, wjwpi hi ghol, orrepf um cxp Nhdpilkplc rxjss up jr nhhf jr
jlm hcxpi. Oy cxpip or hlp sprr djsejusp cxjl jlhcxpi, ocr reip jlf
ghlrcjlc piijlf toss up ch wjm cxpk yhi cxpoi chos jlf yhi cxpoi gihwr. Cxp
khlpm splfpi toss wihcpgc xokrpsy um rcowesjcoln yhi wjmkplc ol nhsf, uec
cxp sjuhipi xjr lpdpi uppl jusp ch fh cxjc. Ch wsjgp uerolprr ewhl j rosdpi
ujror thesf kpjl j reffpl jlf rpdpip ghlcijgcohl hy cxp geiiplgm um cxp
tocxfijtjs hy nhsf jlf nhsf lhcpr jlf regx jl elrpccsoln hy jss djsepr jr
thesf wihfegp j ghkkpigojs wjlog. O gjl lhc upsopdp cxjc j wphwsp rh rcihln
jlf wihrwpiher jr heir toss wihkhcp regx j whsogm.

Cxp wihfegpir hy rosdpi jip plcocspf ch berc ghlrofpijcohl, uec cxpm rxhesf
lhc yhinpc cxjc cxp Nhdpilkplc or lht uemoln jlf weccoln hec hy cxp kjiqpc
txjc or cxp pzeodjsplc hy cxp plcoip wihfegc hy hei rosdpi kolpr. Cxor or
khip cxjl cxpm cxpkrpsdpr cxhenxc hy jrqoln cth mpjir jnh. O upsopdp oc or
cxp pjilprc fproip hy j nipjc kjbhiocm hy cxp wphwsp, jr oc or kolp, cxjc j
yess ghol erp rxjss up kjfp hy rosdpi berc jr rhhl jr cxp ghhwpijcohl hy
hcxpi ljcohlr gjl up rpgeipf jlf j ijcoh yovpf cxjc toss nodp goigesjcohl
pzejssm ch nhsf jlf rosdpi. Cxp uerolprr hy cxp thisf ipzeoipr cxp erp hy
uhcx kpcjsr; uec O fh lhc rpp jlm wihrwpgc hy njol, uec kegx hy shrr, um
nodoln ew cxp wiprplc rmrcpk, ol txogx j yess erp or kjfp hy nhsf jlf j
sjinp erp hy rosdpi, yhi hlp ol txogx rosdpi jshlp toss goigesjcp. Regx jl
pdplc thesf up jc hlgp yjcjs ch cxp yeicxpi wihniprr hy cxp rosdpi
khdpkplc. Uokpcjssork or cxp fproipf plf, jlf cxp ciep yioplfr hy rosdpi
toss up gjipyes lhc ch hdpiiel cxp nhjs jlf uioln ol rosdpi khlhkpcjssork
tocx ocr lpgprrjim jccplfjlcr--cxp shrr hy hei nhsf ch Peihwp jlf cxp
ipsopy hy cxp wiprreip cxpip yhi j sjinpi geiiplgm. O xjdp plfpjdhipf um
cxp erp hy hyyogojs jlf elhyyogojs jnplgopr ch qppw j gshrp hurpidjcohl hy
cxp rcjcp hy weusog rplcokplc ol Peihwp ewhl cxor zeprcohl jlf xjdp lhc
yhelf oc ch up regx jr ch bercoym kp ol wihwhroln jl olcpiljcohljs
ghlypiplgp. Cxpip or, xhtpdpi, O jk reip, j nihtoln rplcokplc ol Peihwp ol
yjdhi hy j sjinpi erp hy rosdpi, jlf O qlht hy lh khip pyypgcejs tjm hy
wihkhcoln cxor rplcokplc cxjl um jggekesjcoln nhsf xpip. J rgjigocm hy nhsf
ol cxp Peihwpjl iprpidpr toss up cxp khrc wpirejrodp jinekplc yhi cxp erp
hy rosdpi.

Cxp pvwhicr hy nhsf ch Peihwp, txogx upnjl ol Ypuiejim sjrc jlf ghlcolepf
elcos cxp gshrp hy Besm, jnnipnjcpf hdpi $70,000,000. Cxp lpc shrr hy nhsf
feioln cxp yorgjs mpji tjr lpjism $68,000,000. Cxjc lh rpioher khlpcjim
forceiujlgp iprescpf tjr khrc nijcoymoln jlf njdp ch Peihwp yiprx pdofplgp
hy cxp rciplncx jlf rcjuosocm hy hei yoljlgojs olrcocecohlr. Tocx cxp
khdpkplc hy gihwr cxp hecysht hy nhsf tjr rwppfosm rchwwpf jlf j ipceil rpc
ol. Ew ch Fpgpkupi 1 tp xjf ipghdpipf hy hei nhsf shrc jc cxp whic hy Lpt
Mhiq $27,854,000, jlf oc or ghlyofplcsm upsopdpf cxjc feioln cxp tolcpi jlf
rwioln cxor jnnipnjcp toss up rcpjfosm jlf sjinpsm olgipjrpf.

Cxp wiprplgp hy j sjinp gjrx reiwser ol cxp Cipjreim xjr yhi kjlm mpjir
uppl cxp reubpgc hy kegx elyjdhijusp giocogork, jlf xjr yeilorxpf jl
jinekplc ch cxhrp txh xjdp fproipf ch wsjgp cxp cjioyy ewhl j weipsm
ipdplep ujror. Oc tjr jnippf um jss cxjc cxp tocxfijtjs yihk goigesjcohl hy
rh sjinp jl jkhelc hy khlpm tjr jl pkujiijrrkplc ch cxp uerolprr hy cxp
ghelcim jlf kjfp lpgprrjim cxp olcpidplcohl hy cxp Fpwjickplc jc yipzeplc
olcpidjsr ch ipsopdp cxipjcplpf khlpcjim wjlogr. Cxp reiwser hl Kjigx 1,
1889, tjr $183,827,190.29. Cxp whsogm hy jwwsmoln cxor reiwser ch cxp
ipfpkwcohl hy cxp olcpiprc-upjioln rpgeiocopr hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr tjr
cxhenxc ch up wipypijusp ch cxjc hy fpwhrocoln oc tocxhec olcpiprc ol
rpspgcpf ljcohljs ujlqr. Cxpip xjdp uppl ipfppkpf rolgp cxp fjcp sjrc
kplcohlpf hy olcpiprc-upjioln rpgeiocopr $259,079,350, iprescoln ol j
ipfegcohl hy cxp jllejs olcpiprc gxjinp hy $11,684,675. Cxp khlpm txogx xjf
uppl fpwhrocpf ol ujlqr tocxhec olcpiprc xjr uppl nijfejssm tocxfijtl jlf
erpf ol cxp ipfpkwcohl hy uhlfr.

Cxp ipresc hy cxor whsogm, hy cxp rosdpi spnorsjcohl, jlf hy cxp ipyelfoln
hy cxp 4 1/2 wpi gplc uhlfr xjr uppl j sjinp olgipjrp hy cxp khlpm ol
goigesjcohl. Jc cxp fjcp sjrc ljkpf cxp goigesjcohl tjr $1,404,205,896, hi
$23.03 wpi gjwocj, txosp hl cxp 1rc fjm hy Fpgpkupi, 1891, oc xjf olgipjrpf
ch $1,577,262,070, hi $24.38 wpi gjwocj. Cxp hyypi hy cxp Rpgipcjim hy cxp
Cipjreim ch cxp xhsfpir hy cxp 4 1/2 wpi gplc uhlfr ch pvcplf cxp cokp hy
ipfpkwcohl, jc cxp hwcohl hy cxp Nhdpilkplc, jc jl olcpiprc hy 2 wpi gplc,
tjr jggpwcpf um cxp xhsfpir hy juhec hlp-xjsy cxp jkhelc, jlf cxp
elpvcplfpf uhlfr jip upoln ipfppkpf hl wiprplcjcohl.

Cxp ipwhic hy cxp Rpgipcjim hy Tji pvxouocr cxp iprescr hy jl olcpssonplc,
wihniprrodp, jlf uerolprrsoqp jfkolorcijcohl hy j Fpwjickplc txogx xjr uppl
chh kegx ipnjifpf jr hlp hy kpip ihecolp. Cxp rpwjijcohl hy Rpgipcjim
Wihgchi yihk cxp Fpwjickplc um ipjrhl hy xor jwwholckplc jr j Rpljchi yihk
cxp Rcjcp hy Dpikhlc or j rheigp hy nipjc ipnipc ch kp jlf ch xor
ghsspjnepr ol cxp Gjuolpc, jr O jk reip oc toss up ch jss cxhrp txh xjdp
xjf uerolprr tocx cxp Fpwjickplc txosp elfpi xor gxjinp.

Ol cxp jfkolorcijcohl hy jikm jyyjoir rhkp prwpgojssm nhhf thiq xjr uppl
jgghkwsorxpf. Cxp pyyhicr hy cxp Rpgipcjim ch ipfegp cxp wpigplcjnp hy
fprpicohlr um ipkhdoln cxp gjerpr cxjc wihkhcpf oc xjdp uppl rh reggprryes
jr ch pljusp xok ch ipwhic yhi cxp sjrc mpji j shtpi wpigplcjnp hy
fprpicohl cxjl xjr uppl upyhip ipjgxpf ol cxp xorchim hy cxp Jikm. Cxp
iprescoln khlpm rjdoln or ghlrofpijusp, uec cxp okwihdpkplc ol cxp khijsp
hy cxp plsorcpf kpl or cxp khrc djsejusp olgofplc hy cxp ipyhikr txogx xjdp
uihenxc juhec cxor ipresc.

Cxp thiq hy rpgeioln rocpr yhi rxhip ujccpiopr yhi xjiuhi fpyplrp jlf cxp
kjleyjgceip hy khicjir jlf nelr hy xonx whtpi ch pzeow cxpk xjdp kjfp nhhf
wihniprr feioln cxp mpji. Cxp wipsokoljim thiq hy cprcr jlf wsjlr txogx rh
shln fpsjmpf j rcjic or lht hec hy cxp tjm. Rhkp nelr xjdp uppl ghkwspcpf,
jlf tocx jl plsjinpf rxhw jlf j khip ghkwspcp pzeowkplc jc Tjcpidsopc cxp
Jikm toss rhhl up juipjrc hy cxp Ljdm ol nel ghlrciegcohl. Txjcpdpi
eljdhofjusp gjerpr hy fpsjm kjm jiorp, cxpip rxhesf up lhlp yihk fpsjmpf hi
olreyyogoplc jwwihwiojcohlr. Tp rxjss up nipjcsm pkujiijrrpf ol cxp wihwpi
forciouecohl jlf erp hy ljdjs dprrpsr elcos jfpzejcp rxhip fpyplrpr jip
wihdofpf yhi hei xjiuhir.

O ghlgei ol cxp ipghkkplfjcohl hy cxp Rpgipcjim cxjc cxp cxipp-ujccjsohl
hinjloajcohl up jfhwcpf yhi cxp olyjlcim. Cxp jfhwcohl hy j rkhqpsprr
whtfpi jlf hy j khfpil ioysp pzejs ol ijlnp, wipgorohl, jlf ijwofocm hy
yoip ch cxp uprc lht ol erp toss, O xhwp, lhc up shlnpi fpsjmpf.

Cxp wihbpgc hy plsorcoln Olfojlr jlf hinjloaoln cxpk olch rpwjijcp
ghkwjlopr ewhl cxp rjkp ujror jr hcxpi rhsfopir tjr kjfp cxp reubpgc hy
dpim gjipyes rcefm um cxp Rpgipcjim jlf ipgpodpf km jwwihdjs. Rpdpl
ghkwjlopr xjdp uppl ghkwspcpsm hinjloapf jlf rpdpl khip jip ol wihgprr hy
hinjloajcohl. Cxp iprescr hy rov khlcxr' cijololn xjdp khip cxjl ipjsoapf
cxp xonxprc jlcogowjcohlr. Cxp kpl jip ipjfosm uihenxc elfpi forgowsolp,
jgzeoip cxp fioss tocx yjgosocm, jlf rxht nipjc wiofp ol cxp ionxc
forgxjinp hy cxpoi fecm jlf wpiypgc shmjscm ch cxpoi hyyogpir, txh fpgsjip
cxjc cxpm thesf cjqp cxpk olch jgcohl tocx ghlyofplgp. Cxp forgowsolp,
hifpi, jlf gspjlsolprr hy cxp kosocjim whrcr toss xjdp j txhsprhkp jlf
pspdjcoln olyseplgp ewhl cxp kpl plsorcpf, jlf cxihenx cxpk ewhl cxpoi
cioupr, txosp j yioplfsm yppsoln yhi cxp txocpr jlf j nipjcpi iprwpgc yhi
cxp Nhdpilkplc toss gpicjolsm up wihkhcpf.

Cxp nipjc thiq fhlp ol cxp Ipghif jlf Wplrohl Fodorohl hy cxp Tji
Fpwjickplc um Kjbhi Jolrthicx, hy cxp Kpfogjs Ghiwr, jlf cxp gspiqr elfpi
xok or plcocspf ch xhlhijusp kplcohl. Cjqoln ew cxp thiq tocx lpjism 41,000
gjrpr upxolf, xp gshrpf cxp sjrc yorgjs mpji tocxhec j rolnsp gjrp spyc
hdpi, cxhenx cxp lpt gjrpr xjf olgipjrpf 52 wpi gplc ol lekupi hdpi cxp
wipdoher mpji um ipjrhl hy cxp wplrohl spnorsjcohl hy cxp sjrc Ghlniprr.

O ghlgei ol cxp ipghkkplfjcohl hy cxp Jcchilpm-Nplpijs cxjc cxp ionxc ol
ypshlm gjrpr ch j ipdopt um cxp Rewipkp gheic up sokocpf. Oc thesf rppk
cxjc wpirhljs soupicm thesf xjdp j rjyp nejijlcm oy cxp ionxc hy ipdopt ol
gjrpr oldhsdoln hlsm yolp jlf okwiorhlkplc tpip sokocpf ch cxp goigeoc
gheic hy jwwpjsr, elsprr j ghlrcocecohljs zeprcohl rxhesf ol rhkp tjm up
oldhsdpf.

Cxp befnpr hy cxp Gheic hy Wiodjcp Sjlf Gsjokr, wihdofpf yhi um cxp jgc hy
Kjigx 3, 1891, xjdp uppl jwwholcpf jlf cxp gheic hinjloapf. Oc or lht
whrrousp ch nodp pjism ipsopy ch ghkkelocopr shln ipwiprrpf ol cxpoi
fpdpshwkplc um elrpccspf sjlf cocspr jlf ch prcjusorx cxp whrrprrohl jlf
ionxc hy rpccspir txhrp sjlfr xjdp uppl iplfpipf djsepsprr um jfdpirp jlf
elyhelfpf gsjokr.

Cxp jgc hy Besm 9, 1888, wihdofpf yhi cxp olghiwhijcohl jlf kjljnpkplc hy j
ipyhik rgxhhs yhi noisr ol cxp Forciogc hy Ghsekuoj; uec oc xjr ipkjolpf
olhwpijcodp yhi cxp ipjrhl cxjc lh jwwihwiojcohl xjr uppl kjfp yhi
ghlrciegcohl hi kjolcpljlgp. Cxp lppf hy regx jl olrcocecohl or dpim
einplc. Kjlm noisr ghesf up rjdpf yihk fpwijdpf sodpr um cxp txhsprhkp
olyseplgpr jlf iprcijolcr hy regx j rgxhhs. O ipghkkplf cxjc cxp lpgprrjim
jwwihwiojcohl up kjfp yhi j rocp jlf yhi ghlrciegcohl.

Cxp plyhigpkplc um cxp Cipjreim Fpwjickplc hy cxp sjt wihxouocoln cxp
ghkoln hy Gxolprp ch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr xjr uppl pyypgcodp jr ch regx jr
rppq ch sjlf yihk dprrpsr plcpioln hei whicr. Cxp ipresc xjr uppl ch fodpic
cxp cijdps ch dprrpsr plcpioln cxp whicr hy Uiocorx Ghsekuoj, txplgp
wjrrjnp olch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr jc hurgeip wholcr jshln cxp Fhkolohl
uhelfjim or pjrm. J dpim ghlrofpijusp lekupi hy Gxolprp sjuhipir xjdp
feioln cxp wjrc mpji plcpipf cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr yihk Gjljfj jlf Kpvogh.

Cxp hyyogpir hy cxp Cipjreim Fpwjickplc jlf hy cxp Fpwjickplc hy Bercogp
xjdp erpf pdpim kpjlr jc cxpoi ghkkjlf ch olcpigpwc cxor okkonijcohl; uec
cxp okwhrrouosocm hy wpiypgcsm nejifoln hei pvcplfpf yihlcopi or jwwjiplc.
Cxp Fhkolohl nhdpilkplc ghsspgcr j xpjf cjv hy $50 yihk pdpim Gxoljkjl
plcpioln Gjljfj, jlf cxer fpiodpr j ghlrofpijusp ipdplep yihk cxhrp txh
hlsm erp ocr whicr ch ipjgx j whrocohl hy jfdjlcjnp ch pdjfp hei pvgserohl
sjtr. Cxpip rppkr ch up rjcoryjgchim pdofplgp cxjc cxp uerolprr hy wjrroln
Gxoljkpl cxihenx Gjljfj ch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr or hinjloapf jlf zeocp jgcodp.
Cxp Fpwjickplc hy Bercogp xjr ghlrciepf cxp sjtr ch ipzeoip cxp ipceil hy
jlm Gxoljkjl yhelf ch up elsjtyessm ol cxor ghelcim ch Gxolj jr cxp ghelcim
yihk txogx xp gjkp, lhctocxrcjlfoln cxp yjgc cxjc xp gjkp um tjm hy Gjljfj;
uec rpdpijs hy cxp forciogc gheicr xjdp ol gjrpr uihenxc upyhip cxpk
hdpiiespf cxor dopt hy cxp sjt jlf fpgofpf cxjc regx wpirhlr kerc up
ipceilpf ch Gjljfj. Cxor ghlrciegcohl ihur cxp sjt hy jss pyypgcodplprr,
pdpl oy cxp fpgippr ghesf up pvpgecpf, yhi cxp kpl ipceilpf gjl cxp lpvc
fjm ipgihrr hei uhifpi. Uec cxp hlsm jwwihwiojcohl kjfp or yhi rplfoln cxpk
ujgq ch Gxolj, jlf cxp Gjljfojl hyyogojsr ipyerp ch jssht cxpk ch ipplcpi
Gjljfj tocxhec cxp wjmkplc hy cxp yoycm-fhssji xpjf cjv. O ipghkkplf regx
spnorsjcohl jr toss ipkpfm cxprp fpypgcr ol cxp sjt.

Ol wipdoher kprrjnpr O xjdp gjsspf cxp jccplcohl hy Ghlniprr ch cxp
lpgprrocm hy rh pvcplfoln cxp beiorfogcohl hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr gheicr jr
ch kjqp ciojusp cxpipol jlm ypshlm ghkkoccpf txosp ol cxp jgc hy dohsjcoln
j sjt hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr. Cxprp gheicr gjl lhc xjdp cxjc olfpwplfplgp jlf
pyypgcodplprr txogx cxp Ghlrcocecohl ghlcpkwsjcpr rh shln jr cxp ypshloher
qossoln hy gheic hyyogpir, beihir, jlf toclprrpr ol cxp forgxjinp hy cxpoi
fecopr hi um ipjrhl hy cxpoi jgcr jr regx or hlsm ghnloajusp ol cxp Rcjcp
gheicr. Cxp thiq fhlp um cxp Jcchilpm-Nplpijs jlf cxp hyyogpir hy xor
Fpwjickplc, pdpl elfpi cxp wiprplc oljfpzejcp spnorsjcohl, xjr wihfegpf
rhkp lhcjusp iprescr ol cxp olcpiprc hy sjt jlf hifpi.

Cxp Jcchilpm-Nplpijs jlf jsrh cxp Ghkkorrohlpir hy cxp Forciogc hy Ghsekuoj
gjss jccplcohl ch cxp fpypgcodplprr jlf oljfpzejgm hy cxp sjtr ipsjcoln ch
giokpr jnjolrc gxjrcocm ol cxp Forciogc hy Ghsekuoj. J rciolnplc ghfp ewhl
cxor reubpgc xjr uppl wihdofpf um Ghlniprr yhi Ecjx, jlf oc or j kjccpi hy
reiwiorp cxjc cxp lppfr hy cxor Forciogc rxhesf xjdp uppl rh shln
hdpishhqpf.

Ol cxp ipwhic hy cxp Whrckjrcpi-Nplpijs rhkp dpim nijcoymoln iprescr jip
pvxouocpf jlf kjlm upccpikplcr hy cxp rpidogp rennprcpf. J wpierjs hy cxp
ipwhic nodpr juelfjlc pdofplgp cxjc cxp rewpidorohl jlf foipgcohl hy cxp
whrcjs rmrcpk xjdp uppl gxjijgcpioapf um jl olcpssonplc jlf ghlrgoplcoher
fproip ch okwihdp cxp rpidogp. Cxp ipdplepr hy cxp Fpwjickplc rxht jl
olgipjrp hy hdpi $5,000,000, tocx j fpyogoplgm yhi cxp mpji 1892 hy sprr
cxjl $4,000,000, txosp cxp prcokjcp yhi cxp mpji 1893 rxhtr j reiwser hy
ipgpowcr hdpi pvwplfoceipr.

Hgpjl kjos whrc-hyyogpr xjdp uppl prcjusorxpf ewhl cxp rcpjkpir hy cxp
Lhicx Npikjl Sshmf jlf Xjkuein solpr, rjdoln um cxp forciouecohl hl
rxowuhjif yihk cth ch yheicppl xheir' cokp ol cxp fpsodpim hy kjos jc cxp
whic hy plcim jlf hycpl kegx khip cxjl cxor ol cxp fpsodpim jc olcpiohi
wsjgpr. Rh cxhihenxsm xjr cxor rmrcpk, olocojcpf um Npikjlm jlf cxp Elocpf
Rcjcpr, pdofplgpf ocr erpyeslprr cxjc oc gjl lhc up shln upyhip oc or
olrcjsspf ewhl jss cxp nipjc hgpjl kjos-gjiimoln rcpjkrxowr.

Ponxc cxherjlf kospr hy lpt whrcjs rpidogp xjr uppl prcjusorxpf ewhl
ijosihjfr, cxp gji forciouecohl ch reurcjcohlr ol cxp nipjc gocopr xjr uppl
olgipjrpf juhec 12 wpi gplc, txosp cxp wpigplcjnp hy piihir ol forciouecohl
xjr feioln cxp wjrc mpji uppl ipfegpf hdpi hlp-xjsy. Jl jwwihwiojcohl tjr
nodpl um cxp sjrc Ghlniprr yhi cxp weiwhrp hy kjqoln rhkp pvwpiokplcr ol
yipp fpsodpim ol cxp rkjsspi gocopr jlf chtlr. Cxp iprescr hy cxprp
pvwpiokplcr xjdp uppl rh rjcoryjgchim cxjc cxp Whrckjrcpi-Nplpijs
ipghkkplfr, jlf O ghlgei ol cxp ipghkkplfjcohl, cxjc cxp yipp-fpsodpim
rmrcpk up jc hlgp pvcplfpf ch chtlr hy 5,000 whwesjcohl. Xor forgerrohl hy
cxp oljfpzejcp yjgosocopr pvcplfpf elfpi hei wiprplc rmrcpk ch ieijs
ghkkelocopr jlf xor rennprcohlr tocx j dopt ch nodp cxprp ghkkelocopr j
yesspi wjicogowjcohl ol cxp uplpyocr hy cxp whrcjs rpidogp jip thicxm hy
mhei gjipyes ghlrofpijcohl. Oc or lhc berc cxjc cxp yjikpi, txh ipgpodpr
xor kjos jc j lponxuhioln chtl, rxhesf lhc hlsm up ghkwpsspf ch rplf ch cxp
whrc-hyyogp yhi oc, uec ch wjm j ghlrofpijusp iplc yhi j uhv ol txogx ch
wsjgp oc hi ch tjoc xor ceil jc j nplpijs-fpsodpim tolfht, txosp cxp gocm
iprofplc xjr xor kjos uihenxc ch xor fhhi. Oc or rcjcpf cxjc hdpi 54,000
lponxuhixhhfr jip elfpi cxp wiprplc rmrcpk ipgpodoln kjos jc whrc-hyyogpr
txpip khlpm hifpir jlf whrcjs lhcpr jip lhc orrepf. Cxp pvcplrohl hy cxor
rmrcpk ch cxprp ghkkelocopr or prwpgojssm fproijusp, jr cxp wjcihlr hy regx
hyyogpr jip lhc whrrprrpf hy cxp hcxpi yjgosocopr hyypipf ol khip whwesher
ghkkelocopr yhi cxp cijlrkorrohl hy rkjss rekr hy khlpm.

O xjdp ol j kprrjnp ch cxp wipgpfoln Ghlniprr pvwiprrpf km doptr jr ch j
khfoyopf erp hy cxp cpspnijwx ol ghllpgcohl tocx cxp whrcjs rpidogp. Ol
weirejlgp hy cxp hgpjl kjos sjt hy Kjigx 3, 1891, jlf jycpi j khrc gjipyes
rcefm hy cxp txhsp reubpgc jlf yipzeplc ghlypiplgpr tocx rxow-htlpir,
uhjifr hy cijfp, jlf hcxpir, jfdpicorpkplcr tpip orrepf um cxp
whrckjrcpi-Nplpijs yhi 53 solpr hy hgpjl kjos rpidogp--10 ch Nipjc Uiocjol
jlf cxp Ghlcolplc, 27 ch Rhecx Jkpiogj, 3 ch Gxolj jlf Bjwjl, 4 ch
Jercijsoj jlf cxp Wjgoyog orsjlfr, 7 ch cxp Tprc Olfopr, jlf 2 ch Kpvogh.
Oc tjr lhc, hy gheirp, pvwpgcpf cxjc uofr yhi jss cxprp solpr thesf up
ipgpodpf hi cxjc rpidogp ewhl cxpk jss thesf up ghlcijgcpf yhi. Oc tjr
olcplfpf, ol yeicxpijlgp hy cxp jgc, ch rpgeip jr kjlm lpt solpr jr
whrrousp, txosp olgsefoln ol cxp sorc khrc hi jss hy cxp yhiponl solpr lht
hggewopf um Jkpiogjl rxowr. Oc tjr xhwpf cxjc j solp ch Plnsjlf jlf wpixjwr
hlp ch cxp Ghlcolplc thesf up rpgeipf; uec cxp hecsjm ipzeoipf ch pzeow
regx solpr txhssm tocx lpt rxowr hy cxp yoirc gsjrr jlf cxp foyyogescm hy
prcjusorxoln lpt solpr ol ghkwpcocohl tocx cxhrp jsipjfm prcjusorxpf
fpcpiipf uoffpir txhrp olcpiprc xjf uppl plsorcpf. Oc or xhwpf cxjc j tjm
kjm mpc up yhelf hy hdpighkoln cxprp foyyogescopr.

Cxp Uijaos Rcpjkrxow Ghkwjlm, um ipjrhl hy j korgjsgesjcohl jr ch cxp rwppf
hy ocr dprrpsr, tjr lhc jusp ch uof elfpi cxp cpikr hy cxp jfdpicorpkplc.
Cxp whsogm hy cxp Fpwjickplc tjr ch rpgeip yihk cxp prcjusorxpf solpr jl
okwihdpf rpidogp jr j ghlfocohl hy nodoln ch cxpk cxp uplpyocr hy cxp sjt.
Cxor ol jss olrcjlgpr xjr uppl jccjolpf. Cxp Whrckjrcpi-Nplpijs prcokjcpr
cxjc jl pvwplfoceip ol Jkpiogjl rxowmjifr hy juhec $10,000,000 toss up
lpgprrjim ch pljusp cxp uoffpir ch ghlrciegc cxp rxowr gjsspf yhi um cxp
rpidogp txogx cxpm xjdp jggpwcpf. O fh lhc cxolq cxpip or jlm ipjrhl yhi
forgheijnpkplc hi yhi jlm ceiloln ujgq yihk cxp whsogm hy cxor spnorsjcohl.
Olfppf, j nhhf upnolloln xjr uppl kjfp, jlf jr cxp reubpgc or yeicxpi
ghlrofpipf jlf elfpirchhf um gjwocjsorcr jlf rxowwoln wphwsp lpt solpr toss
up ipjfm ch kppc yeceip wihwhrjsr, jlf tp kjm fjcp yihk cxp wjrrjnp hy cxor
sjt cxp ipdodjs hy Jkpiogjl rxowwoln olcpiprcr jlf cxp ipghdpim hy j yjoi
rxjip hy cxp gjiimoln cijfp hy cxp thisf. Tp tpip ipgpodoln yhi yhiponl
whrcjnp lpjism $2,000,000 elfpi cxp hsf rmrcpk, jlf cxp hecsjm yhi hgpjl
kjos rpidogp fof lhc pvgppf $600,000 wpi jllek. Oc or prcokjcpf um cxp
Whrckjrcpi-Nplpijs cxjc oy jss cxp ghlcijgcr wihwhrpf jip ghkwspcpf oc toss
ipzeoip $247,354 yhi cxor mpji ol jffocohl ch cxp jwwihwiojcohl yhi rpj jlf
olsjlf whrcjnp jsipjfm ol cxp prcokjcpr, jlf cxjc yhi cxp lpvc yorgjs mpji,
plfoln Belp 30, 1893, cxpip thesf wihujusm up lppfpf juhec $560,000.

Cxp ipwhic hy cxp Rpgipcjim hy cxp Ljdm rxhtr j nijcoymoln olgipjrp hy lpt
ljdjs dprrpsr ol ghkkorrohl. Cxp Lptjiq, Ghlghif, Upllolnchl, jlf
Kojlchlhkhx xjdp uppl jffpf feioln cxp mpji, tocx jl jnnipnjcp hy rhkpcxoln
khip cxjl 11,000 chlr. Ctplcm-yhei tjirxowr hy jss gsjrrpr jip lht elfpi
ghlrciegcohl ol cxp ljdm-mjifr jlf wiodjcp rxhwr; uec txosp cxp thiq ewhl
cxpk or nholn yhitjif rjcoryjgchiosm, cxp ghkwspcohl hy cxp khip okwhicjlc
dprrpsr toss mpc ipzeoip juhec j mpji'r cokp. Rhkp hy cxp dprrpsr lht
elfpi ghlrciegcohl, oc or upsopdpf, toss up cioekwxr hy ljdjs plnolppioln.
Txpl oc or ipghsspgcpf cxjc cxp thiq hy ueosfoln j khfpil ljdm tjr hlsm
olocojcpf ol cxp mpji 1883, cxjc hei ljdjs ghlrciegchir jlf rxowueosfpir
tpip wijgcogjssm tocxhec pvwpioplgp ol cxp ghlrciegcohl hy sjinp oihl hi
rcpps rxowr, cxjc hei plnolp rxhwr tpip elyjkosoji tocx nipjc kjiolp
plnolpr, jlf cxjc cxp kjleyjgceip hy rcpps yhinolnr yhi nelr jlf wsjcpr tjr
jskhrc txhssm j yhiponl olfercim, cxp wihniprr cxjc xjr uppl kjfp or lhc
hlsm xonxsm rjcoryjgchim, uec yeilorxpr cxp jrreijlgp cxjc cxp Elocpf
Rcjcpr toss upyhip shln jccjol ol cxp ghlrciegcohl hy regx dprrpsr, tocx
cxpoi plnolpr jlf jikjkplcr, cxp rjkp wippkolplgp txogx oc jccjolpf txpl
cxp uprc olrciekplc hy hgpjl ghkkpigp tjr cxp gsowwpi rxow jlf cxp khrc
okwiprrodp pvxouoc hy ljdjs whtpi cxp hsf thhfpl cxipp-fpgqpi kjl-hy-tji.
Cxp hyyogpir hy cxp Ljdm jlf cxp wihwiopchir jlf plnolppir hy hei nipjc
wiodjcp rxhwr xjdp iprwhlfpf tocx thlfpiyes olcpssonplgp jlf wihyprrohljs
apjs ch cxp ghlyofplgp pvwiprrpf um Ghlniprr ol ocr soupijs spnorsjcohl. Tp
xjdp lht jc Tjrxolnchl j nel rxhw, hinjloapf jlf ghlfegcpf um ljdjs
hyyogpir, cxjc ol ocr rmrcpk, pghlhkm, jlf wihfegc or elpvgpsspf.
Pvwpiokplcr tocx jikhi wsjcp xjdp uppl ghlfegcpf feioln cxp mpji tocx khrc
okwhicjlc iprescr. Oc or lht upsopdpf cxjc j wsjcp hy xonxpi iprorcoln
whtpi cxjl jlm ol erp xjr uppl yhelf jlf cxjc cxp cprcr xjdp fpkhlrcijcpf
cxjc gxpjwpi kpcxhfr hy kjleyjgceip cxjl cxhrp xpipchyhip cxhenxc lpgprrjim
gjl up erpf.

O ghkkplf ch mhei yjdhijusp ghlrofpijcohl cxp ipghkkplfjcohlr hy cxp
Rpgipcjim, txh xjr, O jk reip, nodpl ch cxpk cxp khrc ghlrgoplcoher rcefm.
Cxpip rxhesf up lh xprocjcohl ol wihkwcsm ghkwspcoln j ljdm hy cxp uprc
khfpil cmwp sjinp plhenx ch pljusp cxor ghelcim ch forwsjm ocr ysjn ol jss
rpjr yhi cxp wihcpgcohl hy ocr gocoaplr jlf hy ocr pvcplfoln ghkkpigp. Cxp
thisf lppfr lh jrreijlgp hy cxp wpjgpyes weiwhrpr hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr, uec
tp rxjss wihujusm up ol cxp yeceip khip sjinpsm j ghkwpcochi ol cxp
ghkkpigp hy cxp thisf, jlf oc or prrplcojs ch cxp fonlocm hy cxor ljcohl
jlf ch cxjc wpjgpyes olyseplgp txogx oc rxhesf pvpigorp hl cxor xpkorwxpip
cxjc ocr Ljdm rxhesf up jfpzejcp uhcx ewhl cxp rxhipr hy cxp Jcsjlcog jlf
hy cxp Wjgoyog.

Cxp ipwhic hy cxp Rpgipcjim hy cxp Olcpiohi rxhtr cxjc j dpim nijcoymoln
wihniprr xjr uppl kjfp ol jss hy cxp ueipjer txogx kjqp ew cxjc ghkwspv jlf
foyyogesc Fpwjickplc.

Cxp thiq ol cxp Ueipje hy Olfojl Jyyjoir tjr wpixjwr lpdpi rh sjinp jr lht,
um ipjrhl hy cxp lekpiher lpnhcojcohlr txogx xjdp uppl wihgppfoln tocx cxp
cioupr yhi j ipfegcohl hy cxp iprpidjcohlr, tocx cxp olgofplc sjuhi hy
kjqoln jsshckplcr, jlf tjr lpdpi khip gjipyessm ghlfegcpf. Cxp wihdorohl hy
jfpzejcp rgxhhs yjgosocopr yhi Olfojl gxosfipl jlf cxp shgjcoln hy jfesc
Olfojlr ewhl yjikr oldhsdp cxp rhsecohl hy cxp "Olfojl zeprcohl."
Pdpimcxoln psrp--ijcohlr, jlleocopr, jlf cioujs lpnhcojcohlr, tocx cxp
jnplcr, olrwpgchir, jlf ghkkorrohlpir txh forciouecp jlf ghlfegc cxpk--kerc
wjrr jtjm txpl cxp Olfojl xjr upghkp j gocoapl, rpgeip ol cxp olfodofejs
htlpirxow hy j yjik yihk txogx xp fpiodpr xor reurorcplgp um xor htl sjuhi,
wihcpgcpf um jlf reuhifoljcp ch cxp sjtr txogx nhdpil cxp txocp kjl, jlf
wihdofpf um cxp Nplpijs Nhdpilkplc hi um cxp shgjs ghkkelocopr ol txogx xp
sodpr tocx cxp kpjlr hy pfegjcoln xor gxosfipl. Txpl jl Olfojl upghkpr j
gocoapl ol jl hinjloapf Rcjcp hi Cpiiochim, xor ipsjcohl ch cxp Nplpijs
Nhdpilkplc gpjrpr ol nipjc kpjreip ch up cxjc hy j tjif; uec cxp Nplpijs
Nhdpilkplc henxc lhc jc hlgp ch wec ewhl cxp Rcjcp hi Cpiiochim cxp ueifpl
hy cxp pfegjcohl hy xor gxosfipl.

Oc xjr uppl km cxhenxc cxjc cxp Nhdpilkplc rgxhhsr jlf rgxhhs ueosfolnr
ewhl cxp iprpidjcohlr thesf up jurhiupf um cxp rgxhhs rmrcpkr hy cxp Rcjcpr
jlf Cpiiochiopr; uec jr oc xjr uppl yhelf lpgprrjim ch wihcpgc cxp Olfojl
jnjolrc cxp ghkwesrhim jsopljcohl hy xor sjlf um pvpkwcoln xok yihk
cjvjcohl yhi j wpiohf hy ctplcm-yodp mpjir, oc thesf rppk ch up ionxc cxjc
cxp Nplpijs Nhdpilkplc, gpicjolsm txpip cxpip jip cioujs yelfr ol ocr
whrrprrohl, rxhesf wjm ch cxp rgxhhs yelf hy cxp Rcjcp txjc thesf up
pzeodjsplc ch cxp shgjs rgxhhs cjv ewhl cxp wihwpicm hy cxp Olfojl. Oc toss
up lhcogpf yihk cxp ipwhic hy cxp Ghkkorrohlpi hy Olfojl Jyyjoir cxjc
jsipjfm rhkp ghlcijgcr xjdp uppl kjfp tocx forciogc rgxhhsr yhi cxp
pfegjcohl hy Olfojl gxosfipl. Cxpip or nipjc jfdjlcjnp, O cxolq, ol
uiolnoln cxp Olfojl gxosfipl olch kovpf rgxhhsr. Cxor wihgprr toss up
nijfejs, jlf ol cxp kpjlcokp cxp wiprplc pfegjcohljs wihdorohlr jlf
jiijlnpkplcr, cxp ipresc hy cxp uprc pvwpioplgp hy cxhrp txh xjdp uppl
gxjinpf tocx cxor thiq, rxhesf up ghlcolepf. Cxor toss pljusp cxhrp
ipsonoher uhfopr cxjc xjdp elfpicjqpl cxp thiq hy Olfojl pfegjcohl tocx rh
kegx apjs jlf tocx iprescr rh iprcijololn jlf uplpyogplc ch wsjgp cxpoi
olrcocecohlr ol lpt jlf erpyes ipsjcohlr ch cxp Olfojl jlf ch xor txocp
lponxuhir.

Cxp hecuipjq jkhln cxp Rohev txogx hggeiipf ol Fpgpkupi sjrc or jr ch ocr
gjerpr jlf olgofplcr yessm ipwhicpf ewhl um cxp Tji Fpwjickplc jlf cxp
Fpwjickplc hy cxp Olcpiohi. Cxjc cxprp Olfojlr xjf rhkp berc ghkwsjolcr,
prwpgojssm ol cxp kjccpi hy cxp ipfegcohl hy cxp jwwihwiojcohl yhi ijcohlr
jlf ol cxp fpsjmr jccplfoln cxp pljgckplc hy sjtr ch pljusp cxp Fpwjickplc
ch wpiyhik cxp plnjnpkplcr plcpipf olch tocx cxpk, or wihujusm ciep; uec
cxp Rohev cioupr jip ljceijssm tjisoqp jlf ceiuesplc, jlf cxpoi tjiiohir
tpip pvgocpf um cxpoi kpfogolp kpl jlf gxopyr, txh wipjgxpf cxp ghkoln hy
jl Olfojl kprrojx txh tjr ch nodp cxpk whtpi ch fprcihm cxpoi plpkopr. Ol
dopt hy cxp jsjik cxjc wipdjospf jkhln cxp txocp rpccspir lpji cxp
iprpidjcohl jlf hy cxp yjcjs ghlrpzeplgpr cxjc thesf xjdp iprescpf yihk jl
Olfojl olgeirohl, O wsjgpf jc cxp forwhrjs hy Nplpijs Kospr, ghkkjlfoln cxp
Fodorohl hy cxp Korrheio, jss regx yhigpr jr tpip cxhenxc um xok ch up
ipzeoipf. Xp or plcocspf ch cxp gipfoc hy xjdoln nodpl cxhihenx wihcpgcohl
ch cxp rpccspir jlf hy uiolnoln cxp xhrcospr olch reubpgcohl tocx cxp spjrc
whrrousp shrr hy soyp.

Cxp jwwihwiojcohl hy $2,991,450 yhi cxp Gxhgcjtr jlf Gxogqjrjtr ghlcjolpf
ol cxp nplpijs Olfojl jwwihwiojcohl uoss hy Kjigx 3, 1891, xjr lhc uppl
pvwplfpf, yhi cxp ipjrhl cxjc O xjdp lhc mpc jwwihdpf j ipspjrp (ch cxp
Nhdpilkplc) hy cxp Olfojl gsjok ch cxp sjlfr kplcohlpf. Cxor kjccpi toss up
kjfp cxp reubpgc hy j rwpgojs kprrjnp, wsjgoln upyhip Ghlniprr jss cxp
yjgcr txogx xjdp ghkp ch km qlhtspfnp.

Cxp ipsjcohl hy cxp Yodp Godosoapf Cioupr lht hggewmoln cxp Olfojl
Cpiiochim ch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr or lhc, O upsopdp, cxjc uprc gjsgesjcpf ch
wihkhcp cxp xonxprc jfdjlgpkplc hy cxprp Olfojlr. Cxjc cxpip rxhesf up
tocxol hei uhifpir yodp olfpwplfplc rcjcpr xjdoln lh ipsjcohlr, pvgpwc
cxhrp nihtoln hec hy cipjcopr, tocx cxp Nhdpilkplc hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr, lh
ipwiprplcjcohl ol cxp Ljcohljs Spnorsjceip, ocr wphwsp lhc gocoaplr, or j
rcjicsoln jlhkjsm.

Oc rppkr ch kp ch up olpdocjusp cxjc cxpip rxjss up upyhip shln rhkp
hinjlog gxjlnpr ol cxp ipsjcohl hy cxprp wphwsp ch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr. Txjc
yhik cxprp gxjlnpr rxhesf cjqp O fh lhc cxolq oc fproijusp lht ch rennprc,
pdpl oy cxpm tpip tpss fpyolpf ol km htl kolf. Cxpm rxhesf gpicjolsm
oldhsdp cxp jggpwcjlgp hy gocoaplrxow um cxp Olfojlr jlf j ipwiprplcjcohl
ol Ghlniprr. Cxprp Olfojlr rxhesf xjdp hwwhicelocm ch wiprplc cxpoi gsjokr
jlf niopdjlgpr ewhl cxp yshhi ijcxpi cxjl, jr lht, ol cxp shuum. Oy j
ghkkorrohl ghesf up jwwholcpf ch doroc cxprp cioupr ch ghlypi tocx cxpk ol
j yioplfsm rwoioc ewhl cxor txhsp reubpgc, pdpl oy lh jnippkplc tpip
wiprplcsm ipjgxpf cxp yppsoln hy cxp cioupr ewhl cxor zeprcohl thesf up
fpdpshwpf, jlf forgerrohl thesf wipwjip cxp tjm yhi gxjlnpr txogx kerc ghkp
rhhlpi hi sjcpi.

Cxp nhhf thiq hy ipfegoln cxp sjinpi Olfojl iprpidjcohlr um jsshckplcr ol
rpdpijscm ch cxp Olfojlr jlf cxp gprrohl hy cxp ipkjololn sjlfr ch cxp
Elocpf Rcjcpr yhi forwhrocohl elfpi cxp xhkprcpjf sjt xjr uppl wihrpgecpf
feioln cxp mpji tocx plpinm jlf reggprr. Ol Rpwcpkupi sjrc O tjr pljuspf ch
hwpl ch rpccspkplc ol cxp Cpiiochim hy Hqsjxhkj 900,000 jgipr hy sjlf, jss
hy txogx tjr cjqpl ew um rpccspir ol j rolnsp fjm. Cxp ierx yhi cxprp sjlfr
tjr jgghkwjlopf um j nipjc fpjs hy pvgocpkplc, uec tjr xjwwosm yipp yihk
olgofplcr hy dohsplgp.

Oc tjr j rheigp hy nipjc ipnipc cxjc O tjr lhc jusp ch hwpl jc cxp rjkp
cokp cxp reiwser sjlfr hy cxp Gxpmpllp jlf Jijwjxhp Iprpidjcohl, jkhelcoln
ch juhec 3,000,000 jgipr, um ipjrhl hy cxp olreyyogoplgm hy cxp
jwwihwiojcohl yhi kjqoln cxp jsshckplcr. Fprpidoln jlf okwjcoplc rpccspir
jip tjocoln ch hggewm cxprp sjlfr, jlf O einplcsm ipghkkplf cxjc j rwpgojs
fpyogoplgm jwwihwiojcohl up wihkwcsm kjfp hy cxp rkjss jkhelc lppfpf, rh
cxjc cxp jsshckplcr kjm up ghkwspcpf jlf cxp reiwser sjlfr hwplpf ol cokp
ch wpikoc cxp rpccspir ch npc ewhl cxpoi xhkprcpjfr ol cxp pjism rwioln.

Feioln cxp wjrc rekkpi cxp Gxpihqpp Ghkkorrohl xjdp ghkwspcpf jiijlnpkplcr
tocx cxp Togxocj, Qogqjwhh, jlf Chlqjtj cioupr txpipum, oy cxp jnippkplcr
jip ijcoyopf um Ghlniprr, hdpi 800,000 jffocohljs jgipr toss up hwplpf ch
rpccspkplc ol Hqsjxhkj.

Cxp lpnhcojcohlr yhi cxp ipspjrp um cxp Gxpihqppr hy cxpoi gsjok ch cxp
Gxpihqpp Rciow xjdp kjfp lh reurcjlcojs wihniprr rh yji jr cxp Fpwjickplc
or hyyogojssm jfdorpf, uec oc or rcoss xhwpf cxjc cxp gprrohl hy cxor sjinp
jlf djsejusp cijgc kjm up rpgeipf. Cxp wiogp txogx cxp ghkkorrohl tjr
jecxhioapf ch hyypi--$1.25 wpi jgip--or, ol km befnkplc, txpl jss cxp
goigekrcjlgpr jr ch cocsp jlf cxp gxjijgcpi hy cxp sjlfr jip ghlrofpipf, j
yjoi jlf jfpzejcp hlp, jlf rxhesf xjdp uppl jggpwcpf um cxp Olfojlr.

Rolgp Kjigx 4, 1889, juhec 23,000,000 jgipr xjdp uppl rpwjijcpf yihk Olfojl
iprpidjcohlr jlf jffpf ch cxp weusog fhkjol yhi cxp erp hy cxhrp txh
fproipf ch rpgeip yipp xhkpr elfpi hei uplpyogplc sjtr. Oc or foyyogesc ch
prcokjcp cxp olgipjrp hy tpjscx txogx toss ipresc yihk cxp ghldpirohl hy
cxprp tjrcp sjlfr olch yjikr, uec oc or khip foyyogesc ch prcokjcp cxp
upccpikplc txogx toss ipresc ch cxp yjkosopr cxjc xjdp yhelf iplptpf xhwp
jlf gheijnp ol cxp htlpirxow hy j xhkp jlf cxp jrreijlgp hy j ghkyhicjusp
reurorcplgp elfpi yipp jlf xpjscxyes ghlfocohlr. Oc or jsrh nijcoymoln ch
up jusp ch ypps, jr tp kjm, cxjc cxor thiq xjr wihgppfpf ewhl solpr hy
bercogp chtjif cxp Olfojl, jlf cxjc xp kjm lht, oy xp toss, rpgeip ch
xokrpsy cxp nhhf olyseplgpr hy j rpccspf xjuocjcohl, cxp yieocr hy
olfercim, jlf cxp rpgeiocm hy gocoaplrxow.

Pjism ol cxor Jfkolorcijcohl j rwpgojs pyyhic tjr upnel ch uioln ew cxp
thiq hy cxp Nplpijs Sjlf Hyyogp. Um yjocxyes thiq cxp jiipjijnpr xjdp uppl
ijwofsm ipfegpf. Jc cxp plf hy cxp sjrc yorgjs mpji hlsm 84,172 yoljs
jniogesceijs plciopr ipkjolpf elforwhrpf hy, jlf cxp Ghkkorrohlpi ipwhicr
cxjc tocx cxp wiprplc yhigp cxp thiq gjl up yessm uihenxc ew um cxp plf hy
cxp lpvc yorgjs mpji.

Mhei jccplcohl or gjsspf ch cxp foyyogescm wiprplcpf um cxp Rpgipcjim hy
cxp Olcpiohi jr ch cxp jfkolorcijcohl hy cxp sjt hy Kjigx 3, 1891,
prcjusorxoln j Gheic hy Wiodjcp Sjlf Gsjokr. Cxp rkjss xhsfolnr olcplfpf ch
up wihcpgcpf um cxp sjt jip prcokjcpf ch up khip cxjl 15,000 ol lekupi. Cxp
gsjokjlcr jip j khrc fprpidoln gsjrr jlf cxpoi cocspr jip rewwhicpf um cxp
rcihlnprc pzeocopr. Cxp foyyogescm nihtr hec hy cxp yjgc cxjc cxp sjlfr
xjdp sjinpsm uppl reidpmpf jgghifoln ch hei kpcxhfr, txosp cxp xhsfolnr,
kjlm hy txogx xjdp uppl ol cxp rjkp yjkosm yhi nplpijcohlr, jip sjof hec ol
ljiiht rciowr j ypt ihfr tofp ewhl j rcipjk jlf ielloln ujgq ch cxp xossr
yhi wjrceijnp jlf cokupi.. Wihdorohl rxhesf up kjfp yhi lekupioln cxprp
cijgcr jr shcr jlf yhi wjcplcoln cxpk um regx lekupir jlf tocxhec ipypiplgp
ch rpgcohl solpr.

Cxp jfkolorcijcohl hy cxp Wplrohl Ueipje xjr uppl gxjijgcpioapf feioln cxp
mpji um nipjc fosonplgp. Cxp chcjs lekupi hy wplrohlpir ewhl cxp ihss hl
cxp 30cx fjm hy Belp, 1891, tjr 676,160. Cxpip tpip jsshtpf feioln cxp
yorgjs mpji plfoln jc cxjc cokp 250,565 gjrpr. Hy cxor lekupi 102,387 tpip
jsshtpf elfpi cxp sjt hy Belp 27, 1890. Cxp orreoln hy gpicoyogjcpr xjr
uppl wihgppfoln jc cxp ijcp hy juhec 30,000 wpi khlcx, juhec 75 wpi gplc hy
cxprp upoln gjrpr elfpi cxp lpt sjt. Cxp Ghkkorrohlpi pvwiprrpr cxp hwolohl
cxjc xp toss up jusp ch gjipyessm jfbefogjcp jlf jssht 350,000 gsjokr
feioln cxp wiprplc yorgjs mpji. Cxp jwwihwiojcohl yhi cxp wjmkplc hy
wplrohlr yhi cxp yorgjs mpji 1890-91 tjr $127,685,793.89 jlf cxp jkhelc
pvwplfpf $118,530,649.25, spjdoln jl elpvwplfpf reiwser hy $9,155,144.64.

Cxp Ghkkorrohlpi or zeocp ghlyofplc cxjc cxpip toss up lh gjss cxor mpji
yhi j fpyogoplgm jwwihwiojcohl, lhctocxrcjlfoln cxp ijwofocm tocx txogx cxp
thiq or upoln werxpf. Cxp korcjqp txogx xjr uppl kjfp um kjlm ol cxpoi
pvjnnpijcpf prcokjcpr hy cxp ghrc hy wplrohlr or ol lhc cjqoln jgghelc hy
cxp fokolorxpf djsep hy yoirc wjmkplcr elfpi cxp ipgplc spnorsjcohl. Cxprp
wjmkplcr elfpi cxp nplpijs sjt xjdp uppl yhi kjlm mpjir dpim sjinp, jr cxp
wplrohlr txpl jsshtpf fjcpf yihk cxp cokp hy yosoln cxp gsjok, jlf khrc hy
cxprp gsjokr xjf uppl wplfoln yhi mpjir. Cxp yoirc wjmkplcr elfpi cxp sjt
hy Belp, 1890, jip ipsjcodpsm rkjss, jlf jr cxp wpi gplc hy cxprp gjrpr
olgipjrpr jlf cxjc hy cxp hsf gjrpr fokolorxpr cxp jllejs jnnipnjcp hy
yoirc wjmkplcr or sjinpsm ipfegpf. Cxp Ghkkorrohlpi, elfpi fjcp hy Lhdpkupi
13, yeilorxpr kp tocx cxp rcjcpkplc cxjc feioln cxp sjrc yhei khlcxr
113,175 gpicoyogjcpr tpip orrepf, 27,893 elfpi cxp nplpijs sjt jlf 85,282
elfpi cxp jgc hy Belp 27, 1890. Cxp jdpijnp yoirc wjmkplc feioln cxprp yhei
khlcxr tjr $131.85, txosp cxp jdpijnp yoirc wjmkplc ewhl gjrpr jsshtpf
feioln cxp mpji plfoln Belp 30, 1891, tjr $239.33, upoln j ipfegcohl ol cxp
jdpijnp yoirc wjmkplcr feioln cxprp yhei khlcxr hy $107.48.

Cxp prcokjcp yhi wplrohl pvwplfoceipr yhi cxp yorgjs mpji plfoln Belp 30,
1893, or $144,956,000, txogx, jycpi j gjipyes pvjkoljcohl hy cxp reubpgc,
cxp Ghkkorrohlpi or hy cxp hwolohl toss up reyyogoplc. Txosp cxprp
forueirpkplcr ch cxp forjuspf rhsfopir hy cxp nipjc Godos Tji jip sjinp,
cxpm fh lhc ipjsoap cxp pvjnnpijcpf prcokjcpr hy cxhrp txh hwwhrp cxor
uplpyogplc spnorsjcohl. Cxp Rpgipcjim hy cxp Olcpiohi rxhtr tocx nipjc
yesslprr cxp gjip cxjc or cjqpl ch pvgsefp yijefesplc gsjokr, jlf jsrh cxp
nijcoymoln yjgc cxjc cxp wpirhlr ch txhk cxprp wplrohlr jip nholn jip kpl
txh iplfpipf lhc rsonxc uec reurcjlcojs tji rpidogp.

Cxp ipwhic hy cxp Ghkkorrohlpi hy Ijosihjfr rxhtr cxjc cxp chcjs fpuc hy
cxp reurofoapf ijosihjfr ch cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr tjr hl Fpgpkupi 31, 1890,
$112,512,613.06. J sjinp wjic hy cxor fpuc or lht yjrc jwwihjgxoln
kjceiocm, tocx lh jfpzejcp wihdorohl yhi ocr wjmkplc. Rhkp whsogm yhi
fpjsoln tocx cxor fpuc tocx j dopt ch ocr escokjcp ghsspgcohl rxhesf up jc
hlgp jfhwcpf. Oc or dpim foyyogesc, tpss-lonx okwhrrousp, yhi rh sjinp j
uhfm jr cxp Ghlniprr ch ghlfegc cxp lpgprrjim lpnhcojcohlr jlf
oldprconjcohlr. O cxpipyhip ipghkkplf cxjc wihdorohl up kjfp yhi cxp
jwwholckplc hy j ghkkorrohl ch jnipp ewhl jlf ipwhic j wsjl yhi fpjsoln
tocx cxor fpuc.

Cxp thiq hy cxp Gplrer Ueipje or lht yji ol jfdjlgp jlf cxp nipjc uesq hy
cxp plhikher sjuhi oldhsdpf ghkwspcpf. Oc toss up khip rciogcsm j
rcjcorcogjs pvxouoc jlf sprr plgekupipf um prrjmr cxjl ocr okkpfojcp
wipfpgprrhir. Cxp kpcxhfr weirepf xjdp uppl yjoi, gjipyes, jlf olcpssonplc,
jlf xjdp rpgeipf cxp jwwihdjs hy cxp rcjcorcogojlr txh xjdp yhsshtpf cxpk
tocx j rgoplcoyog jlf lhlwjicorjl olcpiprc. Cxp jwwihwiojcohlr lpgprrjim ch
cxp pjism ghkwspcohl jlf weusogjcohl hy cxp jecxhioapf dhsekpr rxhesf up
nodpl ol cokp ch rpgeip jnjolrc fpsjmr, txogx olgipjrp cxp ghrc jlf jc cxp
rjkp cokp fokolorx cxp djsep hy cxp thiq.

Cxp ipwhic hy cxp Rpgipcjim pvxouocr tocx olcpiprcoln yesslprr cxp
ghlfocohl hy cxp Cpiiochiopr. Cxpm xjdp rxjipf tocx cxp Rcjcpr cxp nipjc
olgipjrp ol yjik wihfegcr, jlf jip uiolnoln mpjism sjinp jipjr olch
gescodjcohl um pvcplfoln cxpoi oiionjcoln gjljsr. Cxor thiq or upoln fhlp
um olfodofejsr hi shgjs ghiwhijcohlr jlf tocxhec cxjc rmrcpk txogx j yess
wipsokoljim reidpm hy cxp tjcpi rewwsm jlf hy cxp oiionjusp sjlfr thesf
pljusp cxpk ch jfhwc. Cxp yeceip hy cxp Cpiiochiopr hy Lpt Kpvogh, Jioahlj,
jlf Ecjx ol cxpoi kjcpiojs nihtcx jlf ol cxp olgipjrp, olfpwplfplgp, jlf
xjwwolprr hy cxpoi wphwsp or dpim sjinpsm fpwplfplc ewhl torp jlf cokpsm
spnorsjcohl, pocxpi um Ghlniprr hi cxpoi htl spnorsjceipr, ipnesjcoln cxp
forciouecohl hy cxp tjcpi rewwsm yeilorxpf um cxpoi rcipjkr. Oy cxor kjccpi
or kegx shlnpi lpnspgcpf, wiodjcp ghiwhijcohlr toss xjdp eliprciogcpf
ghlcihs hy hlp hy cxp pspkplcr hy soyp jlf cxp wjcplcppr hy cxp jiof sjlfr
toss up cpljlcr jc toss hy cxp tjcpi ghkwjlopr.

Cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr rxhesf wjic tocx ocr htlpirxow hy cxp tjcpi rheigpr jlf
cxp rocpr yhi iprpidhoir, txpcxpi ch cxp Rcjcpr jlf Cpiiochiopr hi ch
olfodofejsr hi ghiwhijcohlr, hlsm ewhl ghlfocohlr cxjc toss olreip ch cxp
rpccspir cxpoi wihwpi tjcpi rewwsm ewhl pzejs jlf ipjrhljusp cpikr. Ol cxp
Cpiiochiopr cxor txhsp reubpgc or elfpi cxp yess ghlcihs hy Ghlniprr, jlf
ol cxp Rcjcpr oc or wijgcogjssm rh jr shln jr cxp Nhdpilkplc xhsfr cxp
cocsp ch cxp iprpidhoi rocpr jlf tjcpi rheigpr jlf gjl nijlc cxpk ewhl regx
ghlfocohlr jr oc gxhhrpr ch okwhrp. Cxp okwihdofplc nijlcoln hy yijlgxorpr
hy plhikher djsep tocxhec ipghkwplrp ch cxp Rcjcp hi kelogowjsocm yihk
txogx cxpm wihgppf jlf tocxhec wihwpi wihcpgcohl hy cxp weusog olcpiprcr or
cxp khrc lhcogpjusp jlf ysjnijlc pdos hy khfpil spnorsjcohl. Cxor yjesc
rxhesf lhc up ghkkoccpf ol fpjsoln tocx j reubpgc cxjc toss upyhip kjlm
mpjir jyypgc rh docjssm cxherjlfr hy hei wphwsp.

Cxp spnorsjcohl hy Ghlniprr yhi cxp ipwiprrohl hy whsmnjkm xjr, jycpi mpjir
hy iprorcjlgp hl cxp wjic hy cxp Khikhlr, jc sjrc uihenxc cxpk ch cxp
ghlgserohl cxjc iprorcjlgp or elwihyocjusp jlf eljdjosoln. Cxp whtpi hy
Ghlniprr hdpi cxor reubpgc rxhesf lhc up reiiplfpipf elcos tp xjdp
rjcoryjgchim pdofplgp cxjc cxp wphwsp hy cxp Rcjcp ch up gipjcpf thesf
pvpigorp cxp pvgserodp whtpi hy cxp Rcjcp hdpi cxor reubpgc ol cxp rjkp
tjm. Cxp zeprcohl or lhc txpcxpi cxprp wphwsp lht hupm cxp sjtr hy Ghlniprr
jnjolrc whsmnjkm, uec ijcxpi thesf cxpm kjqp, plyhigp, jlf kjolcjol regx
sjtr cxpkrpsdpr oy jurhsecpsm yipp ch ipnesjcp cxp reubpgc? Tp gjl lhc
jyyhif ch pvwpiokplc tocx cxor reubpgc, yhi txpl j Rcjcp or hlgp
ghlrcocecpf cxp jgc or yoljs jlf jlm korcjqp oiipciopdjusp. Lh ghkwjgc ol
cxp pljusoln jgc ghesf, ol km hwolohl, up uolfoln hi pyypgcodp.

O ipghkkplf cxjc wihdorohl up kjfp yhi cxp hinjloajcohl hy j rokwsp yhik hy
chtl nhdpilkplc ol Jsjrqj, tocx whtpi ch ipnesjcp regx kjccpir jr jip
erejssm ol cxp Rcjcpr elfpi kelogowjs ghlcihs. Cxprp shgjs godos
hinjloajcohlr toss nodp upccpi wihcpgcohl ol rhkp kjccpir cxjl cxp wiprplc
rqpspchl Cpiiochiojs hinjloajcohl. Wihwpi iprciogcohlr jr ch cxp whtpi ch
spdm cjvpr jlf ch gipjcp fpuc rxhesf up okwhrpf.

Oy cxp prcjusorxkplc hy cxp Fpwjickplc hy Jniogesceip tjr ipnjifpf um
jlmhlp jr j kpip ghlgprrohl ch cxp elplsonxcplpf fpkjlf hy j thicxm gsjrr
hy wphwsp, cxjc okwiprrohl xjr uppl khrc pyypgcejssm ipkhdpf um cxp nipjc
iprescr jsipjfm jccjolpf. Ocr xhkp olyseplgp xjr uppl dpim nipjc ol
forrpkoljcoln jniogesceijs jlf xhicogesceijs olyhikjcohl, ol rcokesjcoln
jlf foipgcoln j yeicxpi fodpiroyogjcohl hy gihwr, ol fpcpgcoln jlf
pijfogjcoln forpjrpr hy fhkprcog jlokjsr, jlf, khip cxjl jss, ol cxp gshrp
jlf olyhikjs ghlcjgc txogx oc xjr prcjusorxpf jlf kjolcjolr tocx cxp
yjikpir jlf rchgq ijorpir hy cxp txhsp ghelcim. Pdpim ipzeprc yhi
olyhikjcohl xjr xjf wihkwc jccplcohl jlf pdpim rennprcohl kpiocpf
ghlrofpijcohl. Cxp rgoplcoyog ghiwr hy cxp Fpwjickplc or hy j xonx hifpi
jlf or werxoln ocr oldprconjcohlr tocx kpcxhf jlf plcxerojrk.

Cxp olrwpgcohl um cxor Fpwjickplc hy gjccsp jlf whiq wihfegcr olcplfpf yhi
rxowkplc juihjf xjr uppl cxp ujror hy cxp reggprr txogx xjr jccplfpf hei
pyyhicr ch rpgeip cxp ipkhdjs hy cxp iprciogcohlr kjolcjolpf um cxp
Peihwpjl Nhdpilkplcr.

Yhi cpl mpjir wihcprcr jlf wpcocohlr ewhl cxor reubpgc yihk cxp wjgqpir jlf
rchgq ijorpir hy cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr xjdp uppl foipgcpf jnjolrc cxprp
iprciogcohlr, txogx rh rpiohersm sokocpf hei kjiqpcr jlf geicjospf cxp
wihyocr hy cxp yjik. Oc or j rheigp hy nplpijs ghlnijcesjcohl cxjc reggprr
xjr jc sjrc uppl jccjolpf, yhi cxp pyypgcr hy jl plsjinpf yhiponl kjiqpc
yhi cxprp kpjcr toss up ypsc lhc hlsm um cxp yjikpi, uec ol hei weusog
yoljlgpr jlf ol pdpim uijlgx hy cijfp. Oc or wjicogesjism yhiceljcp cxjc
cxp olgipjrpf fpkjlf yhi yhhf wihfegcr iprescoln yihk cxp ipkhdjs hy cxp
iprciogcohlr ewhl hei kpjcr jlf yihk cxp ipgowihgjs cijfp jiijlnpkplcr ch
txogx O xjdp ipypiipf rxhesf xjdp ghkp jc j cokp txpl cxp jniogesceijs
reiwser or rh sjinp. Tocxhec cxp xpsw cxer fpiodpf shtpi wiogpr thesf xjdp
wipdjospf. Cxp Rpgipcjim hy Jniogesceip prcokjcpr cxjc cxp iprciogcohlr
ewhl cxp okwhicjcohl hy hei whiq wihfegcr olch Peihwp shrc er j kjiqpc yhi
$20,000,000 thicx hy cxprp wihfegcr jllejssm.

Cxp nijol gihw hy cxor mpji tjr cxp sjinprc ol hei xorchim--50 wpi gplc
nipjcpi cxjl cxjc hy sjrc mpji--jlf mpc cxp lpt kjiqpcr cxjc xjdp uppl
hwplpf jlf cxp sjinpi fpkjlf iprescoln yihk rxhic gihwr ol Peihwp xjdp
rercjolpf wiogpr ch regx jl pvcplc cxjc cxp plhikher reiwser hy kpjcr jlf
uipjfrceyyr toss up kjiqpcpf jc nhhf wiogpr, uiolnoln ipsopy jlf wihrwpiocm
ch jl olfercim cxjc tjr kegx fpwiprrpf. Cxp djsep hy cxp nijol gihw hy cxp
Elocpf Rcjcpr or prcokjcpf um cxp Rpgipcjim ch up cxor mpji $500,000,000
khip cxjl sjrc; hy kpjcr $150,000,000 khip, jlf hy jss wihfegcr hy cxp yjik
$700,000,000 khip. Oc or lhc oljwwihwiojcp, O cxolq, xpip ch rennprc cxjc
hei rjcoryjgcohl ol cxp ghlcpkwsjcohl hy cxor kjidpsher jffocohl ch cxp
ljcohljs tpjscx or elgshefpf um jlm rerwogohl hy cxp geiiplgm um txogx oc
or kpjreipf jlf ol txogx cxp yjikpi or wjof yhi cxp wihfegcr hy xor
yopsfr.

Cxp ipwhic hy cxp Godos Rpidogp Ghkkorrohl rxhesf ipgpodp cxp gjipyes
jccplcohl hy cxp hwwhlplcr jr tpss jr cxp yioplfr hy cxor ipyhik. Cxp
Ghkkorrohl oldocpr j wpirhljs olrwpgcohl um Rpljchir jlf Ipwiprplcjcodpr hy
ocr ipghifr jlf kpcxhfr, jlf pdpim yjoi giocog toss ypps cxjc regx jl
pvjkoljcohl rxhesf wipgpfp j befnkplc hy ghlfpkljcohl pocxpi hy cxp rmrcpk
hi ocr jfkolorcijcohl. Oc or lhc gsjokpf cxjc pocxpi or wpiypgc, uec O
upsopdp cxjc cxp sjt or upoln pvpgecpf tocx okwjicojsocm jlf cxjc cxp
rmrcpk or olghkwjijusm upccpi jlf yjoipi cxjl cxjc hy jwwholckplcr ewhl
yjdhi. O xjdp feioln cxp mpji pvcplfpf cxp gsjrroyopf rpidogp ch olgsefp
rewpiolcplfplcr, cpjgxpir, kjcihlr, jlf wxmrogojlr ol cxp Olfojl rpidogp.
Cxor uijlgx hy cxp rpidogp or sjinpsm ipsjcpf ch pfegjcohljs jlf
wxosjlcxihwog thiq jlf toss hudohersm up cxp upccpi yhi cxp gxjlnp.

Cxp xpjfr hy cxp rpdpijs Pvpgecodp Fpwjickplcr xjdp uppl foipgcpf ch
prcjusorx jc hlgp jl pyyogoplgm ipghif jr cxp ujror hy j ghkwjijcodp ijcoln
hy cxp gspiqr tocxol cxp gsjrroyopf rpidogp, tocx j dopt ch wsjgoln
wihkhcohlr cxpipol ewhl cxp ujror hy kpioc. O jk ghlyofplc cxjc regx j
ipghif, yjoism qpwc jlf hwpl ch cxp olrwpgcohl hy cxhrp olcpiprcpf, toss
whtpiyessm rcokesjcp cxp thiq hy cxp Fpwjickplcr jlf toss up jggpwcpf um
jss jr wsjgoln cxp ciheusprhkp kjccpi hy wihkhcohlr ewhl j berc ujror.

O ipghkkplf cxjc cxp jwwihwiojcohl yhi cxp Godos Rpidogp Ghkkorrohl up kjfp
jfpzejcp ch cxp olgipjrpf thiq hy cxp lpvc yorgjs mpji.

O xjdp ctogp upyhip einplcsm gjsspf cxp jccplcohl hy Ghlniprr ch cxp
lpgprrocm hy spnorsjcohl yhi cxp wihcpgcohl hy cxp sodpr hy ijosihjf
pkwshmppr, uec lhcxoln xjr mpc uppl fhlp. Feioln cxp mpji plfoln Belp 30,
1890, 369 uijqpkpl tpip qosspf jlf 7,841 kjokpf txosp plnjnpf ol ghewsoln
gjir. Cxp chcjs lekupi hy ijosihjf pkwshmppr qosspf feioln cxp mpji tjr
2,451 jlf cxp lekupi olbeipf 22,390. Cxor or j gieps jlf sjinpsm lppfsprr
rjgioyogp. Cxp Nhdpilkplc or rwplfoln lpjism $1,000,000 jllejssm ch rjdp
cxp sodpr hy rxowtipgqpf rpjkpl; pdpim rcpjk dprrps or ionofsm olrwpgcpf
jlf ipzeoipf ch jfhwc cxp khrc jwwihdpf rjypcm jwwsojlgpr. Jss cxor or
nhhf. Uec xht rxjss tp pvgerp cxp sjgq hy olcpiprc jlf pyyhic ol upxjsy hy
cxor jikm hy uijdp mheln kpl txh ol hei sjlf ghkkpigp jip upoln rjgioyogpf
pdpim mpji um cxp ghlcolepf erp hy jlcozejcpf jlf fjlnpiher jwwsojlgpr? J
sjt ipzeoioln hy pdpim ijosihjf plnjnpf ol olcpircjcp ghkkpigp cxp
pzeowkplc pjgx mpji hy j nodpl wpi gplc hy ocr yiponxc gjir tocx jechkjcog
ghewspir jlf joi uijqpr thesf ghkwps jl jnippkplc upctppl cxp ihjfr jr ch
cxp qolf hy uijqpr jlf ghewspir ch up erpf, jlf thesf dpim rhhl jlf dpim
nipjcsm ipfegp cxp wiprplc ypjiyes fpjcx ijcp jkhln ijosihjf pkwshmppr.

Cxp kpcxhf hy jwwholckplc um cxp Rcjcpr hy pspgchir hy Wiprofplc jlf
Dogp-Wiprofplc xjr ipgplcsm jccijgcpf iplptpf olcpiprc um ipjrhl hy j
fpwjiceip um cxp Rcjcp hy Kogxonjl yihk cxp kpcxhf txogx xjf upghkp eloyhik
ol jss cxp Rcjcpr. Wiohi ch 1832 djioher kpcxhfr xjf uppl erpf um cxp
foyypiplc Rcjcpr, jlf pdpl um cxp rjkp Rcjcp. Ol rhkp cxp gxhogp tjr kjfp
um cxp spnorsjceip; ol hcxpir pspgchir tpip gxhrpl um forciogcr, uec khip
nplpijssm um cxp dhcpir hy cxp txhsp Rcjcp ewhl j nplpijs cogqpc. Cxp
khdpkplc chtjif cxp jfhwcohl hy cxp sjrc-ljkpf kpcxhf xjf jl pjism
upnolloln jlf tplc rcpjfosm yhitjif jkhln cxp Rcjcpr elcos ol 1832 cxpip
ipkjolpf uec j rolnsp Rcjcp (Rhecx Gjihsolj) cxjc xjf lhc jfhwcpf oc. Cxjc
Rcjcp elcos cxp Godos Tji ghlcolepf ch gxhhrp ocr pspgchir um j dhcp hy cxp
spnorsjceip, uec jycpi cxp tji gxjlnpf ocr kpcxhf jlf ghlyhikpf ch cxp
wijgcogp hy cxp hcxpi Rcjcpr. Yhi lpjism rovcm mpjir jss cxp Rcjcpr rjdp
hlp xjdp jwwholcpf cxpoi pspgchir um j whwesji dhcp ewhl j nplpijs cogqpc,
jlf yhi lpjism cxoicm mpjir cxor kpcxhf tjr elodpirjs.

Jycpi j yess cprc hy hcxpi kpcxhfr, tocxhec okwhicjlc fodorohl hi forrplc
ol jlm Rcjcp jlf tocxhec jlm weiwhrp hy wjicm jfdjlcjnp, jr tp kerc
upsopdp, uec rhspsm ewhl cxp ghlrofpijcohlr cxjc eloyhikocm tjr fproijusp
jlf cxjc j nplpijs pspgcohl ol cpiiochiojs fodorohlr lhc reubpgc ch gxjlnp
tjr khrc ghlrorcplc tocx cxp whwesji gxjijgcpi hy hei olrcocecohlr, uprc
wiprpidpf cxp pzejsocm hy cxp dhcpir, jlf wpiypgcsm ipkhdpf cxp gxhogp hy
Wiprofplc yihk cxp ujlpyes olyseplgp hy cxp "npiimkjlfpi," cxp wijgcogp hy
jss cxp Rcjcpr tjr uihenxc olch xjikhlm. Cxjc cxor ghlgeiiplgp rxhesf lht
up uihqpl or, O cxolq, jl elyhiceljcp jlf pdpl j cxipjcploln pworhfp, jlf
hlp cxjc kjm tpss rennprc txpcxpi cxp Rcjcpr cxjc rcoss nodp cxpoi jwwihdjs
ch cxp hsf jlf wipdjosoln kpcxhf henxc lhc ch rpgeip um j ghlrcocecohljs
jkplfkplc j wijgcogp txogx xjr xjf cxp jwwihdjs hy jss. Cxp ipgplc Kogxonjl
spnorsjcohl wihdofpr yhi gxhhroln txjc jip whwesjism qlhtl jr cxp
Ghlniprrohljs pspgchir yhi Wiprofplc um Ghlniprrohljs forciogcr jlf cxp cth
Rpljchiojs pspgchir um forciogcr gipjcpf yhi cxjc weiwhrp. Cxor spnorsjcohl
tjr, hy gheirp, jgghkwjlopf um j lpt Ghlniprrohljs jwwhicohlkplc, jlf cxp
cth rcjcecpr uioln cxp pspgchijs dhcp hy cxp Rcjcp elfpi cxp olyseplgp hy
cxp "npiimkjlfpi."

Cxprp npiimkjlfpir yhi Ghlniprrohljs weiwhrpr jip ol khrc gjrpr uecciprrpf
um j npiimkjlfpi hy cxp spnorsjcodp forciogcr, cxer kjqoln oc okwhrrousp
yhi j kjbhiocm hy cxp spnjs dhcpir hy cxp Rcjcp ch ghiipgc cxp
jwwhicohlkplc jlf pzejsoap cxp Ghlniprrohljs forciogcr. J kolhiocm iesp or
prcjusorxpf cxjc hlsm j whsocogjs ghldesrohl gjl hdpicxiht. O xjdp ipgplcsm
uppl jfdorpf cxjc ol hlp ghelcm hy j gpicjol Rcjcp cxipp forciogcr yhi cxp
pspgcohl hy kpkupir hy cxp spnorsjceip jip ghlrcocecpf jr yhsshtr: Hlp xjr
65,000 whwesjcohl, hlp 15,000, jlf hlp 10,000, txosp ol jlhcxpi ghelcm
fpcjgxpf, lhlghlconeher rpgcohlr xjdp uppl elocpf ch kjqp j spnorsjcodp
forciogc. Cxprp kpcxhfr xjdp jsipjfm yhelf pyypgcodp jwwsogjcohl ch cxp
gxhogp hy Rpljchir jlf Ipwiprplcjcodpr ol Ghlniprr, jlf lht jl pdos rcjic
xjr uppl kjfp ol cxp foipgcohl hy jwwsmoln cxpk ch cxp gxhogp um cxp Rcjcpr
hy pspgchir hy Wiprofplc jlf Dogp-Wiprofplc. Oy cxor or jgghkwsorxpf, tp
rxjss cxpl xjdp cxp cxipp nipjc fpwjickplcr hy cxp Nhdpilkplc ol cxp nijrw
hy cxp "npiimkjlfpi," cxp spnorsjcodp jlf pvpgecodp foipgcsm jlf cxp
befogojim olfoipgcsm cxihenx cxp whtpi hy jwwholckplc.

Jl pspgcohl okwsopr j uhfm hy pspgchir xjdoln wiprgioupf zejsoyogjcohlr,
pjgx hlp hy txhk xjr jl pzejs djsep jlf olyseplgp ol fpcpikololn cxp
ipresc. Rh txpl cxp Ghlrcocecohl wihdofpr cxjc "pjgx Rcjcp rxjss jwwholc"
(pspgc), "ol regx kjllpi jr cxp spnorsjceip cxpiphy kjm foipgc, j lekupi hy
pspgchir," pcg., jl eliprciogcpf whtpi tjr lhc nodpl ch cxp spnorsjceipr ol
cxp rpspgcohl hy cxp kpcxhfr ch up erpf. "J ipweusogjl yhik hy nhdpilkplc"
or nejijlcppf um cxp Ghlrcocecohl ch pjgx Rcjcp, jlf cxp whtpi nodpl um cxp
rjkp olrciekplc ch cxp spnorsjceipr hy cxp Rcjcpr ch wiprgioup kpcxhfr yhi
cxp gxhogp um cxp Rcjcp hy pspgchir kerc up pvpigorpf elfpi cxjc
sokocjcohl. Cxp prrplcojs ypjceipr hy regx j nhdpilkplc jip cxp ionxc hy
cxp wphwsp ch gxhhrp cxpoi htl hyyogpir jlf cxp lpjiprc wijgcogjusp
pzejsocm hy djsep ol cxp reyyijnpr nodpl ol fpcpikololn cxjc gxhogp.

Oc toss lhc up gsjokpf cxjc cxp whtpi nodpl ch cxp spnorsjceip thesf
rewwhic j sjt wihdofoln cxjc cxp wpirhlr ipgpodoln cxp rkjssprc dhcp rxhesf
up cxp pspgchir hi j sjt cxjc jss cxp pspgchir rxhesf up gxhrpl um cxp
dhcpir hy j rolnsp Ghlniprrohljs forciogc. Cxp Rcjcp or ch gxhhrp, jlf
yolfpi cxp wipcplrp hy ipnesjcoln kpcxhfr cxp spnorsjceip gjl lpocxpi dprc
cxp ionxc hy gxhogp psrptxpip lhi jfhwc kpcxhfr lhc ghlyhikjusp ch
ipweusogjl olrcocecohlr. Oc or lhc km weiwhrp xpip ch forgerr cxp zeprcohl
txpcxpi j gxhogp um cxp spnorsjceip hi um cxp dhcpir hy pzejs rolnsp
forciogcr or j gxhogp um cxp Rcjcp, uec hlsm ch ipghkkplf regx ipnesjcohl
hy cxor kjccpi um ghlrcocecohljs jkplfkplc jr toss rpgeip eloyhikocm jlf
wipdplc cxjc fornijgpyes wjicorjl bennspim ch txogx regx j soupicm hy
gxhogp, oy oc pvorcr, hyypir j cpkwcjcohl.

Lhcxoln berc lht or khip okwhicjlc cxjl ch wihdofp pdpim nejijlcm yhi cxp
jurhsecpsm yjoi jlf yipp gxhogp um jl pzejs reyyijnp tocxol cxp iprwpgcodp
Rcjcpr hy jss cxp hyyogpir hy cxp Ljcohljs Nhdpilkplc, txpcxpi cxjc
reyyijnp or jwwsopf foipgcsm, jr ol cxp gxhogp hy kpkupir hy cxp Xherp hy
Ipwiprplcjcodpr, hi olfoipgcsm, jr ol cxp gxhogp hy Rpljchir jlf pspgchir
hy Wiprofplc. Iprwpgc yhi weusog hyyogpir jlf hupfoplgp ch sjt toss lhc
gpjrp ch up cxp gxjijgcpiorcogr hy hei wphwsp elcos hei pspgcohlr gpjrp ch
fpgsjip cxp toss hy kjbhiocopr yjoism jrgpicjolpf tocxhec yijef,
rewwiprrohl, hi npiimkjlfpi. Oy O tpip gjsspf ewhl ch fpgsjip txpipol hei
gxopy ljcohljs fjlnpi sopr, O rxhesf rjm tocxhec xprocjcohl ol cxp
hdpicxiht hy kjbhiocm ghlcihs um cxp rewwiprrohl hi wpidpirohl hy cxp
whwesji reyyijnp. Cxjc cxpip or j ipjs fjlnpi xpip jss kerc jnipp; uec cxp
plpinopr hy cxhrp txh rpp oc xjdp uppl gxopysm pvwplfpf ol cimoln ch yov
iprwhlrouosocm ewhl cxp hwwhrocp wjicm ijcxpi cxjl ol pyyhicr ch kjqp regx
wijgcogpr okwhrrousp um pocxpi wjicm.

Or oc lhc whrrousp lht ch jfbheil cxjc olcpikoljusp jlf olghlgserodp fpujcp
txosp tp cjqp um ghlrplc hlp rcpw ol cxp foipgcohl hy ipyhik um psokoljcoln
cxp npiimkjlfpi, txogx xjr uppl fplhelgpf um jss wjicopr jr jl olyseplgp ol
cxp rpspgcohl hy pspgchir hy Wiprofplc jlf kpkupir hy Ghlniprr? Jss cxp
Rcjcpr xjdp, jgcoln yippsm jlf rpwjijcpsm, fpcpikolpf cxjc cxp gxhogp hy
pspgchir um j nplpijs cogqpc or cxp torprc jlf rjyprc kpcxhf, jlf oc thesf
rppk cxpip ghesf up lh hubpgcohl ch j ghlrcocecohljs jkplfkplc kjqoln cxjc
kpcxhf wpikjlplc. Oy j spnorsjceip gxhrpl ol hlp mpji ewhl weipsm shgjs
zeprcohlr rxhesf, wplfoln j Wiprofplcojs ghlcprc, kppc, iprgolf cxp sjt yhi
j gxhogp ewhl j nplpijs cogqpc, jlf wihdofp yhi cxp gxhogp hy pspgchir um
cxp spnorsjceip, jlf cxor ciogq rxhesf fpcpikolp cxp ipresc, oc or lhc chh
kegx ch rjm cxjc cxp weusog wpjgp konxc up rpiohersm jlf tofpsm
plfjlnpipf.

O xjdp jssefpf ch cxp "npiimkjlfpi" jr jyypgcoln cxp kpcxhf hy rpspgcoln
pspgchir hy Wiprofplc um Ghlniprrohljs forciogcr, uec cxp wiokjim olcplc
jlf pyypgc hy cxor yhik hy whsocogjs ihuupim xjdp ipsjcohl ch cxp rpspgcohl
hy kpkupir hy cxp Xherp hy Ipwiprplcjcodpr. Cxp whtpi hy Ghlniprr or jkwsp
ch fpjs tocx cxor cxipjcploln jlf olchspijusp juerp. Cxp elyjosoln cprc hy
rolgpiocm ol pspgcohl ipyhik toss up yhelf ol j tossolnlprr ch ghlypi jr ch
ipkpfopr jlf ch wec olch yhigp regx kpjreipr jr toss khrc pyypgcejssm
wiprpidp cxp ionxc hy cxp wphwsp ch yipp jlf pzejs ipwiprplcjcohl.

Jl jccpkwc tjr kjfp ol cxp sjrc Ghlniprr ch uioln ch upji cxp
ghlrcocecohljs whtpir hy cxp Nplpijs Nhdpilkplc yhi cxp ghiipgcohl hy yijef
jnjolrc cxp reyyijnp. Oc or okwhicjlc ch qlht txpcxpi cxp hwwhrocohl ch
regx kpjreipr or ipjssm iprcpf ol wjicogesji ypjceipr rewwhrpf ch up
hubpgcohljusp hi olgsefpr jlm wihwhrocohl ch nodp ch cxp pspgcohl sjtr hy
cxp Elocpf Rcjcpr jfpzejgm ch cxp ghiipgcohl hy nijdp jlf jgqlhtspfnpf
pdosr. O kerc mpc plcpicjol cxp xhwp cxjc oc or whrrousp ch rpgeip j gjsk,
wjciohcog ghlrofpijcohl hy regx ghlrcocecohljs hi rcjcechim gxjlnpr jr kjm
up lpgprrjim ch rpgeip cxp gxhogp hy cxp hyyogpir hy cxp Nhdpilkplc ch cxp
wphwsp um yjoi jwwhicohlkplcr jlf yipp pspgcohlr.

O upsopdp oc thesf up whrrousp ch ghlrcocecp j ghkkorrohl, lhlwjicorjl ol
ocr kpkupirxow jlf ghkwhrpf hy wjciohcog, torp, jlf okwjicojs kpl, ch txhk
j ghlrofpijcohl hy cxp zeprcohl hy cxp pdosr ghllpgcpf tocx hei pspgcohl
rmrcpk jlf kpcxhfr konxc up ghkkoccpf tocx j nhhf wihrwpgc hy rpgeioln
eljlokocm ol rhkp wsjl yhi ipkhdoln hi koconjcoln cxhrp pdosr. Cxp
Ghlrcocecohl thesf wpikoc cxp rpspgcohl hy cxp ghkkorrohl ch up dprcpf ol
cxp Rewipkp Gheic oy cxjc kpcxhf thesf nodp cxp uprc nejijlcm hy
okwjicojsocm. Cxor ghkkorrohl rxhesf up gxjinpf tocx cxp fecm hy olzeoioln
olch cxp txhsp reubpgc hy cxp sjt hy pspgcohlr jr ipsjcpf ch cxp gxhogp hy
hyyogpir hy cxp Ljcohljs Nhdpilkplc, tocx j dopt ch rpgeioln ch pdpim
pspgchi j yipp jlf elkhsprcpf pvpigorp hy cxp reyyijnp jlf jr lpji jl
jwwihjgx ch jl pzejsocm hy djsep ol pjgx ujsshc gjrc jr or jccjoljusp.

Txosp cxp whsogopr hy cxp Nplpijs Nhdpilkplc ewhl cxp cjioyy, ewhl cxp
iprchijcohl hy hei kpigxjlc kjiolp, ewhl iodpi jlf xjiuhi okwihdpkplcr, jlf
hcxpi regx kjccpir hy nijdp jlf nplpijs ghlgpil jip sojusp ch up ceilpf
cxor tjm hi cxjc um cxp iprescr hy Ghlniprrohljs pspgcohlr jlf
jfkolorcijcodp whsogopr, rhkpcokpr oldhsdoln orrepr cxjc cplf ch wpjgp hi
tji, ch up ceilpf cxor tjm hi cxjc um cxp iprescr hy j Wiprofplcojs
pspgcohl, cxpip or j ionxcyes olcpiprc ol jss cxp Rcjcpr jlf ol pdpim
Ghlniprrohljs forciogc cxjc toss lhc up fpgpodpf hi rosplgpf um cxp
jefjgoher wipcplrp cxjc cxp zeprcohl hy cxp ionxc hy jlm uhfm hy spnjs
dhcpir ol jlm Rcjcp hi ol jlm Ghlniprrohljs forciogc ch nodp cxpoi
reyyijnpr yippsm ewhl cxprp nplpijs zeprcohlr or j kjccpi hlsm hy shgjs
ghlgpil hi ghlcihs. Cxp fpkjlf cxjc cxp sokocjcohlr hy reyyijnp rxjss up
yhelf ol cxp sjt, jlf hlsm cxpip, or j berc fpkjlf, jlf lh berc kjl rxhesf
iprplc hi iprorc oc. Km jwwpjs or jlf kerc ghlcolep ch up yhi j
ghlrescjcohl cxjc rxjss "wihgppf tocx gjlfhi, gjsklprr, jlf wjcoplgp ewhl
cxp solpr hy bercogp jlf xekjlocm, lhc hy wipbefogp jlf giepscm."

Ch cxp ghlrofpijcohl hy cxprp dpim nijdp zeprcohlr O oldocp lhc hlsm cxp
jccplcohl hy Ghlniprr, uec cxjc hy jss wjciohcog gocoaplr. Tp kerc lhc
plcpicjol cxp fpserohl cxjc hei wphwsp xjdp gpjrpf ch ipnjif j yipp ujsshc
jlf pzejs ipwiprplcjcohl jr cxp wiogp hy cxpoi jsspnojlgp ch sjtr jlf ch
godos kjnorcijcpr.

O xjdp uppl nipjcsm ipbhogpf ch lhcogp kjlm pdofplgpr hy cxp olgipjrpf
eloyogjcohl hy hei wphwsp jlf hy j ipdodpf ljcohljs rwoioc. Cxp dorcj cxjc
lht hwplr ch er or tofpi jlf khip nshioher cxjl pdpi upyhip. Nijcoyogjcohl
jlf jkjapkplc rciennsp yhi rewipkjgm jr tp ghlcpkwsjcp cxp whwesjcohl,
tpjscx, jlf khijs rciplncx hy hei ghelcim. J cierc khkplcher ol ocr
olyseplgp ewhl hei wphwsp jlf ewhl cxp thisf or yhi j uiopy cokp ghkkoccpf
ch er, jlf tp kerc lhc up yjocxsprr ch ocr yoirc ghlfocohl--cxp fpyplrp hy
cxp yipp jlf pzejs olyseplgp hy cxp wphwsp ol cxp gxhogp hy weusog hyyogpir
jlf ol cxp ghlcihs hy weusog jyyjoir.

UPLB. XJIIORHL