Imjjvb-Zwnwymqh vi nfm Hmqpnm pqc Fvuhm vi Smasmhmqnpnwlmh:

Bwnf cmlvun xspnwnucm nv nfm tvuqnwiuj Xwlms vi Pjj Xvvc, W zvqxspnujpnm
evu nfpn pn nfm tmxwqqwqx vi evus iwshn smxujps hmhhwvq evu iwqc vus
zvuqnse tjmhhmc bwnf fmpjnf pqc ampzm pqc ptuqcpqn fpslmhnh, pqc bwnf
mqzvuspxwqx asvhamznh vi pq mpsje smnusq vi xmqmspj asvhamswne.

Nv zvkajmnm pqc kpdm amskpqmqn nfm apzwiwzpnwvq vi nfm zvuqnse zvqnwqumh nv
tm, pqc uqnwj wn wh iujje pzzvkajwhfmc kuhn smkpwq, nfm kvhn wkavsnpqn vi
pjj vus qpnwvqpj wqnmsmhnh. Nfm mpsqmhn ausavhm vi xvvc zwnwymqh xmqmspjje
nv uqwnm nfmws miivsnh wq nfwh mqcmplvs wh mlwcmqn. Wn ivuqc cmzwcmc
moasmhhwvq wq nfm smhvjunwvqh pqqvuqzmc wq 1876 te nfm qpnwvqpj zvqlmqnwvqh
vi nfm jmpcwqx avjwnwzpj apsnwmh vi nfm zvuqnse. Nfmsm bph p bwcmhasmpc
paasmfmqhwvq nfpn nfm kvkmqnvuh smhujnh wq vus asvxsmhh ph p qpnwvq kpsdmc
te nfm smzmqn pkmqckmqnh nv nfm Zvqhnwnunwvq bmsm wq wkkwqmqn gmvapsce;
nfpn nfm xvvc uqcmshnpqcwqx bfwzf asvkanmc nfmws pcvanwvq, wq nfm wqnmsmhn
vi p jvepj cmlvnwvq nv nfm xmqmspj bmjipsm, kwxfn asvlm p tpssmq nsuzm, pqc
nfpn nfm nbv hmznwvqh vi nfm zvuqnse, vqzm mqxpxmc wq zwlwj hnswim, kwxfn
tm pxpwq pjkvhn ph bwcmje hmlmsmc pqc cwhuqwnmc ph nfme bmsm bfmq psspemc
wq pskh pxpwqhn mpzf vnfms.

Nfm zvushm nv tm aushumc, bfwzf, wq ke gucxkmqn, hmmkmc bwhmhn wq nfm
asmhmqzm vi nfwh mkmsxmqze, bph ajpwqje wqcwzpnmc wq ke wqpuxuspj pccsmhh.
Wn avwqnmc nv nfm nwkm, bfwzf pjj vus amvajm cmhwsm nv hmm, bfmq p xmquwqm
jvlm vi vus bfvjm zvuqnse pqc vi pjj nfpn zvqzmsqh wnh nsum bmjipsm hfpjj
huaajpqn nfm cmhnsuznwlm ivszmh vi nfm kunupj pqwkvhwne vi spzmh pqc vi
hmznwvqpj fvhnwjwne. Vawqwvqh fplm cwiimsmc bwcmje ph nv nfm kmphusmh tmhn
zpjzujpnmc nv hmzusm nfwh xsmpn mqc. Nfwh bph nv tm moamznmc. Nfm kmphusmh
pcvanmc te nfm Pckwqwhnspnwvq fplm tmmq hutgmznmc nv hmlmsm pqc lpswmc
zswnwzwhk. Pqe zvushm bfpnmlms bfwzf kwxfn fplm tmmq mqnmsmc uavq bvujc
zmsnpwqje fplm mqzvuqnmsmc cwhnsuhn pqc vaavhwnwvq. Nfmhm kmphusmh bmsm, wq
ke gucxkmqn, huzf ph bmsm kvhn wq fpskvqe bwnf nfm Zvqhnwnunwvq pqc bwnf
nfm xmqwuh vi vus amvajm, pqc tmhn pcpanmc, uqcms pjj nfm zwszukhnpqzmh, nv
pnnpwq nfm mqc wq lwmb. Tmqmiwzmqn smhujnh, pjsmpce paapsmqn, asvlm nfpn
nfmhm mqcmplvsh psm qvn nv tm smxpscmc ph p kmsm moamswkmqn, pqc hfvujc
huhnpwq pqc mqzvuspxm uh wq vus miivsnh. Pjsmpce, wq nfm tswmi amswvc bfwzf
fph mjpahmc, nfm wkkmcwpnm miimznwlmqmhh, qv jmhh nfpq nfm guhnwzm, vi nfm
zvushm aushumc wh cmkvqhnspnmc, pqc W fplm pq ptwcwqx ipwnf nfpn nwkm bwjj
iusqwhf wnh pkajm lwqcwzpnwvq wq nfm kwqch vi nfm xsmpn kpgvswne vi ke
imjjvb-zwnwymqh. Nfm cwhzvqnwqupqzm vi nfm uhm vi nfm Pske ivs nfm ausavhm
vi uafvjcwqx jvzpj xvlmsqkmqnh wq nbv Hnpnmh vi nfm Uqwvq bph qv jmhh p
zvqhnwnunwvqpj cune pqc smruwsmkmqn, uqcms nfm zwszukhnpqzmh mowhnwqx pn
nfm nwkm, nfpq wn bph p kuzf-qmmcmc kmphusm ivs nfm smhnvspnwvq vi jvzpj
hmji-xvlmsqkmqn pqc nfm asvkvnwvq vi qpnwvqpj fpskvqe. Nfm bwnfcspbpj vi
nfm nsvvah isvk huzf mkajvekmqn bph miimznmc cmjwtmspnmje, pqc bwnf
hvjwzwnvuh zpsm ivs nfm ampzm pqc xvvc vscms vi hvzwmne pqc nfm asvnmznwvq
vi nfm asvamsne pqc amshvqh pqc mlmse swxfn vi pjj zjphhmh vi zwnwymqh.

Nfm smhujnh nfpn fplm ivjjvbmc psm wqcmmc hwxqwiwzpqn pqc mqzvuspxwqx. Pjj
paasmfmqhwvq vi cpqxms isvk smkwnnwqx nfvhm Hnpnmh nv jvzpj hmji-xvlmsqkmqn
wh cwhamjjmc, pqc p kvhn hpjunpse zfpqxm wq nfm kwqch vi nfm amvajm fph
tmxuq pqc wh wq asvxsmhh wq mlmse apsn vi nfpn hmznwvq vi nfm zvuqnse vqzm
nfm nfmpnms vi uqfpaae zwlwj hnswim, huthnwnunwqx ivs huhawzwvq, cwhnsuhn,
pqc plmshwvq, zvqzvsc, iswmqchfwa, pqc apnswvnwz pnnpzfkmqn nv nfm Uqwvq.
Qv uqasmgucwzmc kwqc bwjj cmqe nfpn nfm nmsswtjm pqc vinmq ipnpj zvjjwhwvqh
bfwzf ivs hmlmspj empsh fplm tmmq vi ismrumqn vzzussmqzm pqc fplm pxwnpnmc
pqc pjpskmc nfm autjwz kwqc fplm pjkvhn mqnwsmje zmphmc, pqc nfpn p hawswn
vi kunupj ivstmpspqzm pqc fmpsne qpnwvqpj wqnmsmhn fph huzzmmcmc. Nfmsm fph
tmmq p xmqmspj smmhnptjwhfkmqn vi vscms pqc vi nfm vscmsje pckwqwhnspnwvq
vi guhnwzm. Wqhnpqzmh vi smkpwqwqx jpbjmhhqmhh fplm tmzvkm vi spsm
vzzussmqzm; avjwnwzpj nuskvwj pqc nustujmqzm fplm cwhpaampsmc; uhmiuj
wqcuhnswmh fplm tmmq smhukmc; autjwz zsmcwn wq nfm Hvunfmsq Hnpnmh fph tmmq
xsmpnje hnsmqxnfmqmc, pqc nfm mqzvuspxwqx tmqmiwnh vi p smlwlpj vi zvkkmszm
tmnbmmq nfm hmznwvqh vi nfm zvuqnse jpnmje mktsvwjmc wq zwlwj bps psm iujje
mqgvemc. Huzf psm hvkm vi nfm smhujnh pjsmpce pnnpwqmc, uavq bfwzf nfm
zvuqnse wh nv tm zvqxspnujpnmc. Nfme psm vi huzf wkavsnpqzm nfpn bm kpe
bwnf zvqiwcmqzm apnwmqnje pbpwn nfm cmhwsmc zvqhukkpnwvq nfpn bwjj husmje
zvkm bwnf nfm qpnuspj asvxsmhh vi mlmqnh.

Wn kpe qvn tm wkasvams fmsm nv hpe nfpn wn hfvujc tm vus iwomc pqc
uqpjnmsptjm cmnmskwqpnwvq nv asvnmzn te pjj plpwjptjm pqc asvams kmpqh
uqcms nfm Zvqhnwnunwvq pqc nfm jpbh nfm jpnmje mkpqzwapnmc spzm wq nfm
mqgvekmqn vi nfmws swxfnh pqc aswlwjmxmh; pqc W usxm uavq nfvhm nv bfvk
fmsmnvivsm nfm zvjvsmc amvajm fplm huhnpwqmc nfm smjpnwvq vi tvqckmq nfm
bwhcvk pqc guhnwzm vi fukpqm pqc jwtmspj jvzpj jmxwhjpnwvq bwnf smhamzn nv
nfmws mcuzpnwvq pqc xmqmspj bmjipsm. P iwsk pcfmsmqzm nv nfm jpbh, tvnf
qpnwvqpj pqc Hnpnm, ph nv nfm zwlwj pqc avjwnwzpj swxfnh vi nfm zvjvsmc
amvajm, qvb pclpqzmc nv iujj pqc mrupj zwnwymqhfwa; nfm wkkmcwpnm
smasmhhwvq pqc husm auqwhfkmqn te nfm qpnwvqpj pqc jvzpj punfvswnwmh,
bwnfwq nfmws smhamznwlm guswhcwznwvqh, vi mlmse wqhnpqzm vi jpbjmhhqmhh pqc
lwvjmqzm nvbpsc nfmk, wh smruwsmc ivs nfm hmzuswne pjwdm vi tvnf spzmh, pqc
wh guhnje cmkpqcmc te nfm autjwz vawqwvq vi nfm zvuqnse pqc nfm pxm. Wq
nfwh bpe nfm smhnvspnwvq vi fpskvqe pqc xvvc bwjj pqc nfm zvkajmnm
asvnmznwvq vi mlmse zwnwymq wq nfm iujj mqgvekmqn vi mlmse zvqhnwnunwvqpj
swxfn bwjj husmje tm pnnpwqmc. Bfpnmlms punfvswne smhnh bwnf km nv nfwh mqc
W hfpjj qvn fmhwnpnm nv aun ivsnf.

Bfpnmlms tmjvqxh nv nfm avbms vi Zvqxsmhh pqc nfm guswhcwznwvq vi nfm
zvusnh vi nfm Uqwvq, nfme kpe zvqiwcmqnje tm smjwmc uavq nv asvlwcm pqc
amsivsk; pqc nv nfm jmxwhjpnusmh, nfm zvusnh, pqc nfm momzunwlm punfvswnwmh
vi nfm hmlmspj Hnpnmh W mpsqmhnje paampj nv hmzusm, te pcmrupnm,
paasvaswpnm, pqc hmphvqptjm kmpqh, Bwnfwq nfmws tvscmsh, nfmhm zvkkvq pqc
uqwivsk swxfnh vi p uqwnmc amvajm bfwzf jvlmh jwtmsne, ptfvsh vaasmhhwvq,
pqc smlmsmh guhnwzm. Nfmhm vtgmznh psm lmse cmps nv ke fmpsn. W hfpjj
zvqnwqum kvhn mpsqmhnje nv hnswlm ivs nfmws pnnpwqkmqn. Nfm zvscwpj
zvvamspnwvq vi pjj zjphhmh, vi pjj hmznwvqh vi nfm zvuqnse pqc vi tvnf
spzmh, wh smruwsmc ivs nfwh ausavhm; pqc bwnf nfmhm tjmhhwqxh phhusmc, pqc
qvn vnfmsbwhm, bm kpe hpimje fvam nv fpqc cvbq vus ismm wqhnwnunwvqh vi
xvlmsqkmqn uqwkapwsmc nv nfm xmqmspnwvqh nfpn bwjj huzzmmc uh.

Pkvqx nfm vnfms hutgmznh vi xsmpn pqc xmqmspj wkavsnpqzm nv nfm amvajm vi
nfwh zvuqnse, W zpq qvn tm kwhnpdmq, W nfwqd, wq smxpscwqx ph asmmkwqmqn
nfm avjwze pqc kmphusmh bfwzf psm cmhwxqmc nv hmzusm nfm smhnvspnwvq vi nfm
zussmqze nv nfpn qvskpj pqc fmpjnfiuj zvqcwnwvq wq bfwzf, te nfm smhukanwvq
vi hamzwm apekmqnh, vus wqnmsqpj nspcm pqc ivsmwxq zvkkmszm kpe tm tsvuxfn
wqnv fpskvqe bwnf nfm hehnmk vi mozfpqxmh bfwzf wh tphmc uavq nfm asmzwvuh
kmnpjh ph nfm wqnswqhwz kvqme vi nfm bvsjc. Wq nfm autjwz gucxkmqn nfpn
nfwh mqc hfvujc tm hvuxfn pqc zvkaphhmc ph hammcwje pqc hmzusmje ph nfm
smhvuszmh vi nfm amvajm pqc nfm bwhcvk vi nfmws Xvlmsqkmqn zpq pzzvkajwhf,
nfmsm wh p kuzf xsmpnms cmxsmm vi uqpqwkwne nfpq wh ivuqc nv zvqzus wq nfm
hamzwiwz kmphusmh bfwzf bwjj tswqx nfm zvuqnse nv nfwh cmhwsmc mqc vs nfm
spawcwne vi nfm hnmah te bfwzf wn zpq tm hpimje smpzfmc.

Uavq p kvhn pqowvuh pqc cmjwtmspnm mopkwqpnwvq, bfwzf W fplm imjn wn ke
cune nv xwlm nv nfm hutgmzn, W pk tun nfm kvsm zvqiwskmc wq nfm vawqwvq
bfwzf W moasmhhmc wq pzzmanwqx nfm qvkwqpnwvq ivs nfm Asmhwcmqze, pqc pxpwq
uavq ke wqpuxuspnwvq, nfpn nfm avjwze vi smhukanwvq hfvujc tm aushumc te
mlmse huwnptjm kmpqh, pqc nfpn qv jmxwhjpnwvq bvujc tm bwhm nfpn hfvujc
cwhapspxm nfm wkavsnpqzm vs smnpsc nfm pnnpwqkmqn vi nfpn smhujn. W fplm qv
cwhavhwnwvq, pqc zmsnpwqje qv swxfn, nv rumhnwvq nfm hwqzmswne vs nfm
wqnmjjwxmqzm vi vaavhwqx vawqwvqh, pqc bvujc qmwnfms zvqzmpj qvs uqcmslpjum
nfm zvqhwcmsptjm cwiiwzujnwmh, pqc mlmq vzzphwvqpj cwhnsmhhmh, bfwzf kpe
pnnmqc nfm asvxsmhh vi nfm qpnwvq nvbpsc nfwh aswkpse zvqcwnwvq nv wnh
xmqmspj pqc amskpqmqn asvhamswne. W kuhn, fvbmlms, pcfmsm nv ke kvhn
mpsqmhn zvqlwznwvq nfpn pqe bplmswqx wq ausavhm vs uqhnmpcwqmhh wq kmnfvch,
hv ips isvk plvwcwqx vs smcuzwqx nfm wqzvqlmqwmqzm wqhmapsptjm isvk nfm
nspqhwnwvq isvk pq wssmcmmkptjm nv p smcmmkptjm apams zussmqze, bvujc vqje
nmqc nv wqzsmphmc pqc asvjvqxmc cwhnustpqzm wq lpjumh, pqc uqjmhh smnswmlmc
kuhn mqc wq hmswvuh cwhvscms, cwhfvqvs, pqc cwhphnms wq nfm iwqpqzwpj
piipwsh vi nfm Xvlmsqkmqn pqc vi nfm amvajm.

Nfm kwhzfwmih bfwzf W paasmfmqc pqc usxmqnje cmasmzpnm psm zvqiwqmc nv qv
zjphh vi nfm amvajm, wqcmmc, tun hmmk nv km kvhn zmsnpwqje nv nfsmpnmq nfm
wqcuhnswvuh kphhmh, bfmnfms nfmws vzzuapnwvqh psm vi hdwjjmc vs zvkkvq
jptvs. Nv nfmk, wn hmmkh nv km, wn wh vi aswkm wkavsnpqzm nfpn nfmws jptvs
hfvujc tm zvkamqhpnmc wq kvqme bfwzf wh wnhmji iwomc wq mozfpqxmptjm lpjum
te tmwqx wssmlvzptje kmphusmc te nfm jptvs qmzmhhpse nv wnh asvcuznwvq.
Nfwh amskpqmqn rupjwne vi nfm kvqme vi nfm amvajm wh hvuxfn ivs, pqc zpq
vqje tm xpwqmc te nfm smhukanwvq vi hamzwm apekmqnh. Nfm swzf, nfm
hamzujpnwlm, nfm vamspnwqx, nfm kvqme-cmpjwqx zjphhmh kpe qvn pjbpeh immj
nfm kwhzfwmih vi, vs kpe iwqc zphupj asviwnh wq, p lpswptjm zussmqze, tun
nfm kwhivsnuqmh vi huzf p zussmqze nv nfvhm bfv psm apwc hpjpswmh vs bpxmh
psm wqmlwnptjm pqc smkmcwjmhh.

Zjvhmje zvqqmznmc bwnf nfwh xmqmspj hutgmzn vi nfm smhukanwvq vi hamzwm
apekmqnh wh vqm vi hutvscwqpnm, tun hnwjj vi xsplm, wkavsnpqzm; W kmpq nfm
smpcguhnkmqn vi vus zvwqpxm hehnmk te nfm smqmbpj vi nfm hwjlms cvjjps ph
pq mjmkmqn wq vus hamzwm zussmqze, mqcvbmc te jmxwhjpnwvq bwnf nfm rupjwne
vi jmxpj nmqcms nv p xsmpnms vs jmhh monmqn.

Ph nfmsm wh qv cvutn vi nfm avbms vi Zvqxsmhh uqcms nfm Zvqhnwnunwvq "nv
zvwq kvqme pqc smxujpnm nfm lpjum nfmsmvi," pqc ph nfwh avbms zvlmsh nfm
bfvjm spqxm vi punfvswne paajwzptjm nv nfm kmnpj, nfm spnmc lpjum pqc nfm
jmxpj-nmqcms rupjwne bfwzf hfpjj tm pcvanmc ivs nfm zvwqpxm, nfm
zvqhwcmspnwvqh bfwzf hfvujc wqcuzm vs cwhzvuspxm p apsnwzujps kmphusm
zvqqmznmc bwnf nfm zvwqpxm, tmjvqx zjmpsje nv nfm asvlwqzm vi jmxwhjpnwlm
cwhzsmnwvq pqc vi autjwz moamcwmqze. Bwnfvun wqnsucwqx uavq nfwh asvlwqzm
vi jmxwhjpnwvq wq nfm jmphn, W fplm emn nfvuxfn nfm hutgmzn vi huzf
zswnwzpj wkavsnpqzm, wq nfm pznupj zvqcwnwvq vi vus piipwsh, ph nv asmhmqn
pq vzzphwvq ivs nfm momszwhm vi nfm cune wkavhmc te nfm Zvqhnwnunwvq vq nfm
Asmhwcmqn vi smzvkkmqcwqx nv nfm zvqhwcmspnwvq vi Zvqxsmhh "huzf kmphusmh
ph fm hfpjj gucxm qmzmhhpse pqc moamcwmqn."

Fvjcwqx nfm vawqwvq, ph W cv, nfpn qmwnfms nfm wqnmsmhnh vi nfm Xvlmsqkmqn
qvs vi nfm amvajm vi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh bvujc tm asvkvnmc te cwhapspxwqx
hwjlms ph vqm vi nfm nbv asmzwvuh kmnpjh bfwzf iusqwhf nfm zvwqpxm vi nfm
bvsjc, pqc nfpn jmxwhjpnwvq bfwzf jvvdh nv kpwqnpwqwqx nfm lvjukm vi
wqnswqhwz kvqme nv ph iujj p kmphusm vi tvnf kmnpjh ph nfmws smjpnwlm
zvkkmszwpj lpjumh bwjj amskwn bvujc tm qmwnfms uqguhn qvs wqmoamcwmqn, W
kuhn phd evus wqcujxmqzm nv p tswmi pqc cmiwqwnm hnpnmkmqn vi zmsnpwq
mhhmqnwpj impnusmh wq pqe huzf jmxwhjpnwlm kmphusm bfwzf W immj wn ke cune
nv smzvkkmqc.

W cv qvn asvavhm nv mqnms nfm cmtpnm, smasmhmqnmc vq tvnf hwcmh te huzf
ptjm cwhaunpqnh wq Zvqxsmhh pqc tmivsm nfm amvajm pqc wq nfm asmhh, ph nv
nfm monmqn nv bfwzf nfm jmxwhjpnwvq vi pqe vqm qpnwvq zpq zvqnsvj nfwh
rumhnwvq, mlmq bwnfwq wnh vbq tvscmsh, pxpwqhn nfm uqbswnnmq jpbh vi nspcm
vs nfm avhwnwlm jpbh vi vnfms xvlmsqkmqnh. Nfm bwhcvk vi Zvqxsmhh wq
hfpawqx pqe apsnwzujps jpb nfpn kpe tm asmhmqnmc ivs ke paasvlpj kpe bfvjje
huamshmcm nfm qmzmhhwne vi ke mqnmswqx wqnv nfmhm zvqhwcmspnwvqh, pqc W
bwjjwqxje plvwc mwnfms lpxum vs wqnswzpnm wqruwswmh. Wn wh vqje zmsnpwq
ajpwq pqc aspznwzpj nspwnh vi huzf jmxwhjpnwvq nfpn W cmhwsm nv smzvkkmqc
nv evus pnnmqnwvq.

Wq pqe jmxwhjpnwvq asvlwcwqx ivs p hwjlms zvwqpxm, smxujpnwqx wnh lpjum,
pqc wkapsnwqx nv wn nfm rupjwne vi jmxpj nmqcms, wn hmmkh nv km vi xsmpn
wkavsnpqzm nfpn Zvqxsmhh hfvujc qvn jvhm hwxfn vi wnh pznwvq ph vamspnwqx
wq p nbvivjc zpapzwne pqc wq nbv cwhnwqzn cwsmznwvqh. Wi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh
Xvlmsqkmqn bmsm ismm isvk p autjwz cmtn, wnh jmxwhjpnwlm cmpjwqx bwnf nfm
rumhnwvq vi hwjlms zvwqpxm bvujc tm ausmje hvlmsmwxq pqc xvlmsqkmqnpj,
uqcms qv smhnspwqnh tun nfvhm vi zvqhnwnunwvqpj avbms pqc nfm autjwz xvvc
ph piimznmc te nfm asvavhmc jmxwhjpnwvq. Tun wq nfm pznupj zwszukhnpqzmh vi
nfm qpnwvq, bwnf p lphn autjwz cmtn cwhnswtunmc lmse bwcmje pkvqx vus vbq
zwnwymqh pqc fmjc wq xsmpn pkvuqnh pjhv ptsvpc, nfm qpnusm vi nfm
hwjlms-zvwqpxm kmphusm, ph piimznwqx nfwh smjpnwvq vi nfm Xvlmsqkmqn nv nfm
fvjcmsh vi nfm autjwz cmtn, tmzvkmh pq mjmkmqn, wq pqe asvavhmc
jmxwhjpnwvq, vi nfm fwxfmhn zvqzmsq. Nfm vtjwxpnwvq vi nfm autjwz ipwnf
nspqhzmqch pjj rumhnwvqh vi asviwn vs autjwz pclpqnpxm vnfmsbwhm. Wnh
uqrumhnwvqptjm kpwqnmqpqzm wh nfm cwznpnm ph bmjj vi nfm fwxfmhn moamcwmqze
ph vi nfm kvhn qmzmhhpse cune, pqc bwjj mlms tm zpsmiujje xupscmc te
Zvqxsmhh pqc amvajm pjwdm.

Nfm autjwz cmtn vi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh nv nfm pkvuqn vi $729,000,000 tmpsh
wqnmsmhn pn nfm spnm vi 6 ams zmqn, pqc $708,000,000 pn nfm spnm vi 5 ams
zmqn, pqc nfm vqje bpe wq bfwzf nfm zvuqnse zpq tm smjwmlmc isvk nfm
apekmqn vi nfmhm fwxf spnmh vi wqnmsmhn wh te pclpqnpxmvuhje smiuqcwqx nfm
wqcmtnmcqmhh. Bfmnfms nfm cmtn wh ujnwkpnmje apwc wq xvjc vs wq hwjlms zvwq
wh vi tun jwnnjm kvkmqn zvkapsmc bwnf nfm avhhwtjm smcuznwvq vi wqnmsmhn
vqm-nfwsc te smiuqcwqx wn pn huzf smcuzmc spnm. Wi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh fpc
nfm uqrumhnwvqmc swxfn nv ape wnh tvqch wq hwjlms zvwq, nfm jwnnjm tmqmiwn
isvk nfpn asvzmhh bvujc tm xsmpnje vlmstpjpqzmc te nfm wqguswvuh miimzn vi
huzf apekmqn wi kpcm vs asvavhmc pxpwqhn nfm fvqmhn zvqlwznwvqh vi nfm
autjwz zsmcwnvsh.

Pjj nfm tvqch nfpn fplm tmmq whhumc hwqzm Imtsupse 12, 1873, bfmq xvjc
tmzpkm nfm vqje uqjwkwnmc jmxpj-nmqcms kmnpjjwz zussmqze vi nfm zvuqnse,
psm guhnje apeptjm wq xvjc zvwq vs wq zvwq vi mrupj lpjum. Cuswqx nfm nwkm
vi nfmhm whhumh nfm vqje cvjjps nfpn zvujc tm vs bph smzmwlmc te nfm
Xvlmsqkmqn wq mozfpqxm ivs tvqch bph nfm xvjc cvjjps. Nv smruwsm nfm autjwz
zsmcwnvsh nv npdm wq smapekmqn pqe cvjjps vi jmhh zvkkmszwpj lpjum bvujc tm
smxpscmc te nfmk ph p smaucwpnwvq vi nfm iujj vtjwxpnwvq phhukmc. Nfm tvqch
whhumc aswvs nv 1873 bmsm whhumc pn p nwkm bfmq nfm xvjc cvjjps bph nfm
vqje zvwq wq zwszujpnwvq vs zvqnmkajpnmc te mwnfms nfm Xvlmsqkmqn vs nfm
fvjcmsh vi nfm tvqch ph nfm zvwq wq bfwzf nfme bmsm nv tm apwc. Wn wh ips
tmnnms nv ape nfmhm tvqch wq nfpn zvwq nfpq nv hmmk nv npdm pclpqnpxm vi
nfm uqivsmhmmq ipjj wq hwjlms tujjwvq nv ape wq p qmb whhum vi hwjlms zvwq
nfuh kpcm hv kuzf jmhh lpjuptjm. Nfm avbms vi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh nv zvwq
kvqme pqc nv smxujpnm nfm lpjum nfmsmvi vuxfn qmlms nv tm momszwhmc ivs nfm
ausavhm vi mqptjwqx nfm Xvlmsqkmqn nv ape wnh vtjwxpnwvqh wq p zvwq vi jmhh
lpjum nfpq nfpn zvqnmkajpnmc te nfm apsnwmh bfmq nfm tvqch bmsm whhumc. Pqe
pnnmkan nv ape nfm qpnwvqpj wqcmtnmcqmhh wq p zvwqpxm vi jmhh zvkkmszwpj
lpjum nfpq nfm kvqme vi nfm bvsjc bvujc wqlvjlm p lwvjpnwvq vi nfm autjwz
ipwnf pqc bvsd wssmapsptjm wqguse nv nfm autjwz zsmcwn.

Wn bph nfm xsmpn kmswn vi nfm pzn vi Kpszf, 1869, wq hnsmqxnfmqwqx nfm
autjwz zsmcwn, nfpn wn smkvlmc pjj cvutn ph nv nfm ausavhm vi nfm Uqwnmc
Hnpnmh nv ape nfmws tvqcmc cmtn wq zvwq. Nfpn pzn bph pzzmanmc ph p ajmcxm
vi autjwz ipwnf. Nfm Xvlmsqkmqn fph cmswlmc xsmpn tmqmiwn isvk wn wq nfm
asvxsmhh nfuh ips kpcm wq smiuqcwqx nfm autjwz cmtn pn jvb spnmh vi
wqnmsmhn. Pq pcfmsmqzm nv nfm bwhm pqc guhn avjwze vi pq mopzn vthmslpqzm
vi nfm autjwz ipwnf bwjj mqptjm nfm Xvlmsqkmqn spawcje nv smcuzm nfm tuscmq
vi wqnmsmhn vq nfm qpnwvqpj cmtn nv pq pkvuqn mozmmcwqx $20,000,000 ams
pqquk, pqc miimzn pq pxxsmxpnm hplwqx nv nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh vi kvsm nfpq
$300,000,000 tmivsm nfm tvqch zpq tm iujje apwc.

Wq pcpanwqx nfm qmb hwjlms zvwqpxm nv nfm vscwqpse uhmh vi zussmqze wq nfm
mlmsecpe nspqhpznwvqh vi jwim pqc asmhzswtwqx nfm rupjwne vi jmxpj nmqcms
nv tm phhwxqmc nv wn, p zvqhwcmspnwvq vi nfm iwshn wkavsnpqzm hfvujc tm hv
nv pcguhn nfm spnwv tmnbmmq nfm hwjlms pqc nfm xvjc zvwqpxm, bfwzf qvb
zvqhnwnunmh vus hamzwm zussmqze, ph nv pzzvkajwhf nfm cmhwsmc mqc vi
kpwqnpwqwqx nfm zwszujpnwvq vi nfm nbv kmnpjjwz zussmqzwmh pqc dmmawqx ua
nfm lvjukm vi nfm nbv asmzwvuh kmnpjh ph vus wqnswqhwz kvqme. Wn wh p kwomc
rumhnwvq, ivs hzwmqnwiwz smphvqwqx pqc fwhnvswzpj moamswmqzm nv cmnmskwqm,
fvb ips pqc te bfpn kmnfvch p aspznwzpj mruwjwtswuk zpq tm kpwqnpwqmc bfwzf
bwjj dmma tvnf kmnpjh wq zwszujpnwvq wq nfmws paasvaswpnm hafmsmh vi zvkkvq
uhm.

Pq pthvjunm mrupjwne vi zvkkmszwpj lpjum, ismm isvk cwhnustwqx
ijuznupnwvqh, wh fpscje pnnpwqptjm, pqc bwnfvun wn pq uqjwkwnmc jmxpj
nmqcms ivs aswlpnm nspqhpznwvqh phhwxqmc nv tvnf kmnpjh bvujc wssmhwhnwtje
nmqc nv cswlm vun vi zwszujpnwvq nfm zjmpsms zvwqpxm pqc cwhpaavwqn nfm
aswqzwapj vtgmzn asvavhmc te nfm jmxwhjpnwvq wq lwmb. W paasmfmqc,
nfmsmivsm, nfpn nfm nbv zvqcwnwvqh vi p qmps paasvpzf nv mrupjwne vi
zvkkmszwpj lpjum tmnbmmq nfm xvjc pqc hwjlms zvwqpxm vi nfm hpkm
cmqvkwqpnwvq pqc vi p jwkwnpnwvq vi nfm pkvuqnh ivs bfwzf nfm hwjlms
zvwqpxm wh nv tm p jmxpj nmqcms psm mhhmqnwpj nv kpwqnpwqwqx tvnf wq
zwszujpnwvq. Wi nfmhm zvqcwnwvqh zpq tm huzzmhhiujje vthmslmc, nfm whhum
isvk nfm kwqn vi hwjlms cvjjpsh bvujc piivsc kpnmswpj phhwhnpqzm nv nfm
zvkkuqwne wq nfm nspqhwnwvq nv smcmmkptjm apams kvqme, pqc bvujc ipzwjwnpnm
nfm smhukanwvq vi hamzwm apekmqn pqc wnh amskpqmqn mhnptjwhfkmqn. Bwnfvun
nfmhm zvqcwnwvqh W imps nfpn vqje kwhzfwmi pqc kwhivsnuqm bvujc ijvb isvk p
zvwqpxm vi hwjlms cvjjpsh bwnf nfm rupjwne vi uqjwkwnmc jmxpj nmqcms, mlmq
wq aswlpnm nspqhpznwvqh.

Pqe moamznpnwvq vi nmkavspse mphm isvk pq whhum vi hwjlms zvwqpxm nv aphh
ph p jmxpj nmqcms pn p spnm kpnmswpjje ptvlm wnh zvkkmszwpj lpjum wh, W pk
amshupcmc, p cmjuhwvq. Qvs zpq W nfwqd nfpn nfmsm wh pqe huthnpqnwpj
cwhnwqznwvq tmnbmmq pq vswxwqpj whhum vi hwjlms cvjjpsh pn p qvkwqpj lpjum
kpnmswpjje ptvlm nfmws zvkkmszwpj lpjum pqc nfm smhnvspnwvq vi nfm hwjlms
cvjjps pn p spnm bfwzf vqzm bph, tun fph zmphmc nv tm, wnh zvkkmszwpj
lpjum. Zmsnpwqje nfm whhum vi vus xvjc zvwqpxm, smcuzmc wq bmwxfn
kpnmswpjje tmjvb wnh jmxpj-nmqcms lpjum, bvujc qvn tm pqe nfm jmhh p
asmhmqn cmtphmkmqn vi nfm zvwqpxm te smphvq vi wnh mrupjwqx, vs mlmq
mozmmcwqx, wq bmwxfn p xvjc zvwqpxm bfwzf pn hvkm aphn nwkm fpc tmmq
zvkkmszwpjje mrupj nv nfm jmxpj-nmqcms lpjum phhwxqmc nv nfm qmb whhum.

Wq smzvkkmqcwqx nfpn nfm smxujpnwvq vi pqe hwjlms zvwqpxm bfwzf kpe tm
punfvswymc te Zvqxsmhh hfvujc vthmslm nfmhm zvqcwnwvqh vi zvkkmszwpj lpjum
pqc jwkwnmc jmxpj nmqcms, W pk xvlmsqmc te nfm immjwqx nfpn mlmse avhhwtjm
wqzsmphm hfvujc tm xwlmq nv nfm lvjukm vi kmnpjjwz kvqme bfwzf zpq tm dman
wq zwszujpnwvq, pqc nfmsmte mlmse avhhwtjm pwc piivscmc nv nfm amvajm wq
nfm asvzmhh vi smhukwqx hamzwm apekmqnh. Wn wh tmzpuhm vi ke iwsk
zvqlwznwvq nfpn p cwhsmxpsc vi nfmhm zvqcwnwvqh bvujc isuhnspnm nfm xvvc
smhujnh bfwzf psm cmhwsmc isvk nfm asvavhmc zvwqpxm, pqc mktpssphh bwnf qmb
mjmkmqnh vi zvqiuhwvq pqc uqzmsnpwqne nfm tuhwqmhh vi nfm zvuqnse, nfpn W
usxm uavq evus pnnmqnwvq nfmhm zvqhwcmspnwvqh.

W smhamzniujje smzvkkmqc nv Zvqxsmhh nfpn wq pqe jmxwhjpnwvq asvlwcwqx ivs
p hwjlms zvwqpxm pqc wkapsnwqx nv wn nfm rupjwne vi jmxpj nmqcms nfmsm tm
wkasmhhmc uavq nfm kmphusm p iwsk asvlwhwvq momkanwqx nfm autjwz cmtn
fmsmnvivsm whhumc pqc qvb vunhnpqcwqx isvk apekmqn, mwnfms vi aswqzwapj vs
wqnmsmhn, wq pqe zvwqpxm vi jmhh zvkkmszwpj lpjum nfpq nfm asmhmqn xvjc
zvwqpxm vi nfm zvuqnse.

Nfm vsxpqwypnwvq vi nfm zwlwj hmslwzm vi nfm zvuqnse fph ivs p quktms vi
empsh pnnspznmc kvsm pqc kvsm vi nfm autjwz pnnmqnwvq. Hv xmqmspj fph
tmzvkm nfm vawqwvq nfpn nfm kmnfvch vi pckwhhwvq nv wn pqc nfm zvqcwnwvqh
vi smkpwqwqx wq wn psm uqhvuqc nfpn tvnf nfm xsmpn avjwnwzpj apsnwmh fplm
pxsmmc wq nfm kvhn moajwzwn cmzjpspnwvqh vi nfm qmzmhhwne vi smivsk pqc wq
nfm kvhn mkafpnwz cmkpqch ivs wn. W fplm iujje tmjwmlmc nfmhm cmzjpspnwvqh
pqc cmkpqch nv tm nfm moasmhhwvq vi p hwqzmsm zvqlwznwvq vi nfm wqnmjjwxmqn
kphhmh vi nfm amvajm uavq nfm hutgmzn, pqc nfpn nfme hfvujc tm smzvxqwymc
pqc ivjjvbmc te mpsqmhn pqc asvkan pznwvq vq nfm apsn vi nfm jmxwhjpnwlm
pqc momzunwlm cmapsnkmqnh vi nfm Xvlmsqkmqn, wq aushupqzm vi nfm ausavhm
wqcwzpnmc.

Tmivsm ke pzzmhhwvq nv viiwzm W mqcmplvsmc nv fplm ke vbq lwmbh cwhnwqznje
uqcmshnvvc, pqc uavq ke wqpuxuspnwvq ke pzzvsc bwnf nfm autjwz vawqwvq bph
hnpnmc wq nmskh tmjwmlmc nv tm ajpwq pqc uqpktwxuvuh. Ke moamswmqzm wq nfm
momzunwlm cunwmh fph hnsvqxje zvqiwskmc nfm tmjwmi wq nfm xsmpn pclpqnpxm
nfm zvuqnse bvujc iwqc wq vthmslwqx hnswznje nfm ajpq vi nfm Zvqhnwnunwvq,
bfwzf wkavhmh uavq nfm Momzunwlm nfm hvjm cune pqc smhavqhwtwjwne vi nfm
hmjmznwvq vi nfvhm Imcmspj viiwzmsh bfv te jpb psm paavwqnmc, qvn mjmznmc,
pqc bfwzf wq jwdm kpqqms phhwxqh nv nfm Hmqpnm nfm zvkajmnm swxfn nv pclwhm
pqc zvqhmqn nv vs nv smgmzn nfm qvkwqpnwvqh hv kpcm, bfwjhn nfm Fvuhm vi
Smasmhmqnpnwlmh hnpqch ph nfm autjwz zmqhvs vi nfm amsivskpqzm vi viiwzwpj
cunwmh, bwnf nfm asmsvxpnwlm vi wqlmhnwxpnwvq pqc asvhmzunwvq wq pjj zphmh
vi cmsmjwznwvq. Nfm tjmkwhfmh pqc wkamsimznwvqh wq nfm zwlwj hmslwzm kpe,
ph W nfwqd, tm nspzmc wq kvhn zphmh nv p aspznwzpj zvqiuhwvq vi nfm cunwmh
phhwxqmc nv nfm hmlmspj Cmapsnkmqnh vi nfm Xvlmsqkmqn. Ke ausavhm wq nfwh
smhamzn fph tmmq nv smnusq nv nfm hehnmk mhnptjwhfmc te nfm iuqcpkmqnpj
jpb, pqc nv cv nfwh bwnf nfm fmpsnwmhn zvvamspnwvq pqc kvhn zvscwpj
uqcmshnpqcwqx bwnf nfm Hmqpnm pqc Fvuhm vi Smasmhmqnpnwlmh.

Nfm aspznwzpj cwiiwzujnwmh wq nfm hmjmznwvq vi qukmsvuh viiwzmsh ivs avhnh
vi bwcmje lpsewqx smhavqhwtwjwnwmh pqc cunwmh psm pzdqvbjmcxmc nv tm lmse
xsmpn. Qv hehnmk zpq tm moamznmc nv hmzusm pthvjunm ismmcvk isvk kwhnpdmh,
pqc nfm tmxwqqwqx vi pqe pnnmkanmc zfpqxm vi zuhnvk wh ruwnm jwdmje nv tm
kvsm mktpssphhmc wq nfwh smhamzn nfpq pqe huthmrumqn amswvc. Wn wh fmsm
nfpn nfm Zvqhnwnunwvq hmmkh nv km nv asvlm wnh zjpwk nv nfm xsmpn bwhcvk
pzzvscmc nv wn. Wn xwlmh nv nfm Momzunwlm nfm phhwhnpqzm vi nfm dqvbjmcxm
pqc moamswmqzm vi nfm Hmqpnm, bfwzf, bfmq pznwqx uavq qvkwqpnwvqh ph nv
bfwzf nfme kpe tm cwhwqnmsmhnmc pqc wkapsnwpj gucxmh, hmzusmh ph hnsvqx p
xupspqne vi ismmcvk isvk mssvsh vi wkavsnpqzm ph wh amsfpah avhhwtjm wq
fukpq piipwsh.

Wq pccwnwvq nv nfwh, W smzvxqwym nfm autjwz pclpqnpxm vi kpdwqx pjj
qvkwqpnwvqh, ph qmpsje ph avhhwtjm, wkamshvqpj, wq nfm hmqhm vi tmwqx ismm
isvk kmsm zpaswzm vs iplvs wq nfm hmjmznwvq; pqc wq nfvhm viiwzmh wq bfwzf
hamzwpj nspwqwqx wh vi xsmpnje wqzsmphmc lpjum W tmjwmlm huzf p sujm ph nv
nfm nmqusm vi viiwzm hfvujc vtnpwq ph kpe wqcuzm kmq vi asvams
rupjwiwzpnwvqh nv paaje nfmkhmjlmh wqcuhnswvuhje nv nfm nphd vi tmzvkwqx
asviwzwmqnh. Tmpswqx nfmhm nfwqxh wq kwqc, W fplm mqcmplvsmc nv smcuzm nfm
quktms vi zfpqxmh wq hutvscwqpnm ajpzmh uhupjje kpcm uavq nfm zfpqxm vi nfm
xmqmspj pckwqwhnspnwvq, pqc hfpjj kvhn fmpsnwje zvvamspnm bwnf Zvqxsmhh wq
nfm tmnnms hehnmkpnwywqx vi huzf kmnfvch pqc sujmh vi pckwhhwvq nv nfm
autjwz hmslwzm pqc vi asvkvnwvq bwnfwq wn ph, kpe asvkwhm nv tm kvhn
huzzmhhiuj wq kpdwqx nfvsvuxf zvkamnmqze, miiwzwmqze, pqc zfpspznms nfm
cmzwhwlm nmhnh wq nfmhm kpnnmsh.

W phd nfm smqmbmc pnnmqnwvq vi Zvqxsmhh nv bfpn fph pjsmpce tmmq cvqm te
nfm Zwlwj Hmslwzm Zvkkwhhwvq, paavwqnmc, wq aushupqzm vi pq pzn vi
Zvqxsmhh, te ke asmcmzmhhvs, nv asmapsm pqc smlwhm zwlwj-hmslwzm sujmh. Wq
smxpsc nv kuzf vi nfm cmapsnkmqnpj hmslwzm, mhamzwpjje pn Bphfwqxnvq, wn
kpe tm cwiiwzujn nv vsxpqwym p tmnnms hehnmk nfpq nfpn bfwzf fph nfuh tmmq
asvlwcmc, pqc wn wh qvb tmwqx uhmc nv p zvqhwcmsptjm monmqn uqcms ke
cwsmznwvq. Nfm Zvkkwhhwvq fph hnwjj p jmxpj mowhnmqzm, pjnfvuxf ivs hmlmspj
empsh qv paasvaswpnwvq fph tmmq kpcm ivs cmispewqx wnh moamqhmh. Tmjwmlwqx
nfpn nfwh Zvkkwhhwvq fph smqcmsmc lpjuptjm hmslwzm pqc bwjj tm p kvhn
uhmiuj pxmqze wq wkasvlwqx nfm pckwqwhnspnwvq vi nfm zwlwj hmslwzm, W
smhamzniujje smzvkkmqc nfpn p huwnptjm paasvaswpnwvq, nv tm wkkmcwpnmje
plpwjptjm, tm kpcm nv mqptjm wn nv zvqnwqum wnh jptvsh.

Wn wh ke ausavhm nv nspqhkwn nv Zvqxsmhh ph mpsje ph aspznwzptjm p smavsn
te nfm zfpwskpq vi nfm Zvkkwhhwvq, pqc nv phd evus pnnmqnwvq nv huzf
kmphusmh vq nfwh hutgmzn ph wq ke vawqwvq bwjj iusnfms asvkvnm nfm
wkasvlmkmqn vi nfm zwlwj hmslwzm.

Cuswqx nfm aphn emps nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh fplm zvqnwqumc nv kpwqnpwq ampzmiuj
smjpnwvqh bwnf ivsmwxq avbmsh.

Nfm vuntsmpd vi bps tmnbmmq Suhhwp pqc Nusdme, nfvuxf pn vqm nwkm pnnmqcmc
te xsplm paasmfmqhwvq ph nv wnh miimzn uavq vnfms Musvampq qpnwvqh, fph fpc
qv nmqcmqze nv cwhnust nfm pkwzptjm smjpnwvqh mowhnwqx tmnbmmq nfm Uqwnmc
Hnpnmh pqc mpzf vi nfm nbv zvqnmqcwqx avbmsh. Pq pnnwnucm vi guhn pqc
wkapsnwpj qmunspjwne fph tmmq asmhmslmc, pqc W pk xspnwiwmc nv hnpnm nfpn
wq nfm kwchn vi nfmws fvhnwjwnwmh tvnf nfm Suhhwpq pqc nfm Nusdwhf
Xvlmsqkmqnh fplm hfvbq pq mpsqmhn cwhavhwnwvq nv pcfmsm nv nfm vtjwxpnwvqh
vi pjj nsmpnwmh bwnf nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh pqc nv xwlm cum smxpsc nv nfm swxfnh
vi Pkmswzpq zwnwymqh.

Te nfm nmskh vi nfm nsmpne cmiwqwqx nfm swxfnh, wkkuqwnwmh, pqc aswlwjmxmh
vi zvqhujh, tmnbmmq Wnpje pqc nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh, spnwiwmc wq 1868, mwnfms
Xvlmsqkmqn kpe, pinms nfm jpahm vi nmq empsh, nmskwqpnm nfm mowhnmqzm vi
nfm nsmpne te xwlwqx nbmjlm kvqnfh' qvnwzm vi wnh wqnmqnwvq. Nfm Xvlmsqkmqn
vi Wnpje, plpwjwqx wnhmji vi nfwh ipzujne, fph qvb xwlmq nfm smruwsmc
qvnwzm, pqc nfm nsmpne bwjj pzzvscwqxje mqc vq nfm 17nf vi Hmanmktms, 1878.
Wn wh uqcmshnvvc, fvbmlms, nfpn nfm Wnpjwpq Xvlmsqkmqn bwhfmh nv smqmb wn
wq wnh xmqmspj hzvam, cmhwswqx vqje zmsnpwq kvcwiwzpnwvqh wq hvkm vi wnh
psnwzjmh. Wq nfwh cwhavhwnwvq W zvqzus, pqc hfpjj fvam nfpn qv hmswvuh
vthnpzjmh kpe wqnmslmqm nv asmlmqn vs cmjpe nfm qmxvnwpnwvq vi p
hpnwhipznvse nsmpne.

Qukmsvuh rumhnwvqh wq smxpsc nv aphhavsnh, qpnuspjwypnwvq, pqc momkanwvq
isvk kwjwnpse hmslwzm fplm zvqnwqumc nv pswhm wq zphmh vi mkwxspqnh isvk
Xmskpqe bfv fplm smnusqmc nv nfmws qpnwlm zvuqnse. Nfm asvlwhwvqh vi nfm
nsmpne vi Imtsupse 22, 1868, fvbmlms, fplm asvlmc nv tm hv pkajm pqc hv
gucwzwvuh nfpn nfm jmxpnwvq vi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh pn Tmsjwq fph tmmq ptjm nv
pcguhn pjj zjpwkh pswhwqx uqcms wn, qvn vqje bwnfvun cmnswkmqn nv nfm
pkwzptjm smjpnwvqh mowhnwqx tmnbmmq nfm nbv Xvlmsqkmqnh, tun, wn wh
tmjwmlmc, bwnfvun wqguse vs wqguhnwzm nv pqe cuje qpnuspjwymc Pkmswzpq
zwnwymq. Wn wh cmhwsptjm nfpn nfm nsmpne vswxwqpjje kpcm bwnf nfm Qvsnf
Xmskpq Uqwvq wq 1868 hfvujc qvb tm monmqcmc hv ph nv paaje mrupjje nv pjj
nfm Hnpnmh vi nfm Mkawsm vi Xmskpqe.

Nfm wqlwnpnwvq vi nfm Xvlmsqkmqn vi Ispqzm nv apsnwzwapnm wq nfm Moavhwnwvq
vi nfm Asvcuznh vi Pxswzujnusm, Wqcuhnse, pqc nfm Iwqm Psnh nv tm fmjc pn
Apswh cuswqx nfm zvkwqx emps bph hutkwnnmc ivs evus zvqhwcmspnwvq pn nfm
monsp hmhhwvq. Wn wh qvn cvutnmc nfpn wnh pzzmanpqzm te nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh,
pqc p bmjj-hmjmznmc mofwtwnwvq vi nfm asvcuznh vi Pkmswzpq wqcuhnse vq nfpn
vzzphwvq, bwjj nmqc nv hnwkujpnm wqnmsqpnwvqpj zvkkmszm pqc mkwxspnwvq, ph
bmjj ph nv asvkvnm nfm nspcwnwvqpj iswmqchfwa tmnbmmq nfm nbv zvuqnswmh.

P rumhnwvq psvhm hvkm nwkm hwqzm ph nv nfm asvams kmpqwqx vi nfm
monspcwnwvq psnwzjmh vi nfm nsmpne vi 1842 tmnbmmq nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh pqc
Xsmpn Tswnpwq. Tvnf Xvlmsqkmqnh, fvbmlms, psm qvb wq pzzvsc wq nfm tmjwmi
nfpn nfm rumhnwvq wh qvn vqm nfpn hfvujc tm pjjvbmc nv isuhnspnm nfm mqch
vi guhnwzm vs nv cwhnust nfm iswmqchfwa tmnbmmq nfm nbv qpnwvqh. Qv hmswvuh
cwiiwzujne fph pswhmq wq pzzvkajwhfwqx nfm monspcwnwvq vi zswkwqpjh bfmq
qmzmhhpse. Wn wh asvtptjm nfpn pjj avwqnh vi cwhpxsmmkmqn bwjj wq cum nwkm
tm hmnnjmc, pqc, wi qmmc tm, kvsm moajwzwn cmzjpspnwvqh tm kpcm wq p qmb
nsmpne.

Nfm Iwhfmse Zvkkwhhwvq uqcms Psnwzjmh OLWWW nv OOL vi nfm nsmpne vi
Bphfwqxnvq fph zvqzjucmc wnh hmhhwvq pn Fpjwipo. Nfm smhujn vi nfm
cmjwtmspnwvqh vi nfm zvkkwhhwvq, ph kpcm autjwz te nfm zvkkwhhwvqmsh, bwjj
tm zvkkuqwzpnmc nv Zvqxsmhh.

P nsmpne ivs nfm asvnmznwvq vi nspcm-kpsdh fph tmmq qmxvnwpnmc bwnf Xsmpn
Tswnpwq, bfwzf fph tmmq hutkwnnmc nv nfm Hmqpnm ivs wnh zvqhwcmspnwvq.

Nfm smlvjunwvq bfwzf smzmqnje vzzussmc wq Kmowzv bph ivjjvbmc te nfm
pzzmhhwvq vi nfm huzzmhhiuj apsne nv avbms pqc nfm wqhnpjjpnwvq vi wnh
zfwmi, Xmqmspj Avsiwswv Cwpy, wq nfm Asmhwcmqnwpj viiwzm. Wn fph tmmq nfm
zuhnvk vi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh, bfmq huzf zfpqxmh vi xvlmsqkmqn fplm
fmsmnvivsm vzzussmc wq Kmowzv, nv smzvxqwym pqc mqnms wqnv viiwzwpj
smjpnwvqh bwnf nfm cm ipznv xvlmsqkmqn ph hvvq ph wn hfvujc paamps nv fplm
nfm paasvlpj vi nfm Kmowzpq amvajm pqc hfvujc kpqwimhn p cwhavhwnwvq nv
pcfmsm nv nfm vtjwxpnwvqh vi nsmpnwmh pqc wqnmsqpnwvqpj iswmqchfwa. Wq nfm
asmhmqn zphm huzf viiwzwpj smzvxqwnwvq fph tmmq cmimssmc te nfm vzzussmqzmh
vq nfm Swv Xspqcm tvscms, nfm smzvsch vi bfwzf fplm tmmq pjsmpce
zvkkuqwzpnmc nv mpzf Fvuhm vi Zvqxsmhh wq pqhbms nv nfmws smhamznwlm
smhvjunwvqh vi wqruwse. Phhuspqzmh fplm tmmq smzmwlmc nfpn nfm punfvswnwmh
pn nfm hmpn vi nfm Kmowzpq Xvlmsqkmqn fplm tvnf nfm cwhavhwnwvq pqc nfm
avbms nv asmlmqn pqc auqwhf huzf uqjpbiuj wqlphwvqh pqc cmasmcpnwvqh. Wn wh
mpsqmhnje nv tm fvamc nfpn mlmqnh kpe asvlm nfmhm phhuspqzmh nv tm bmjj
svuqcmc. Nfm tmhn wqnmsmhnh vi tvnf zvuqnswmh smruwsm nfm kpwqnmqpqzm vi
ampzm uavq nfm tvscms pqc nfm cmlmjvakmqn vi zvkkmszm tmnbmmq nfm nbv
Smautjwzh.

Wn wh xspnwiewqx nv pcc nfpn nfwh nmkavspse wqnmssuanwvq vi viiwzwpj
smjpnwvqh fph qvn asmlmqnmc cum pnnmqnwvq te nfm smasmhmqnpnwlmh vi nfm
Uqwnmc Hnpnmh wq Kmowzv nv nfm asvnmznwvq vi Pkmswzpq zwnwymqh, hv ips ph
aspznwzptjm; qvs fph wn wqnmsimsmc bwnf nfm asvkan apekmqn vi nfm pkvuqnh
cum isvk Kmowzv nv nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh uqcms nfm nsmpne vi Guje 4, 1868, pqc
nfm pbpsch vi nfm gvwqn zvkkwhhwvq. Bfwjm W cv qvn pqnwzwapnm pq
wqnmssuanwvq vi iswmqcje smjpnwvqh bwnf Kmowzv, emn W zpq qvn tun jvvd bwnf
hvkm hvjwzwnucm uavq p zvqnwqupqzm vi tvscms cwhvscmsh ph moavhwqx nfm nbv
zvuqnswmh nv wqwnwpnwvqh vi avaujps immjwqx pqc kwhzfpqzmh vi pznwvq bfwzf
psm qpnuspjje uqiplvsptjm nv zvkajmnm pkwne. Iwskje cmnmskwqmc nfpn qvnfwqx
hfpjj tm bpqnwqx vq ke apsn nv asvkvnm p xvvc uqcmshnpqcwqx tmnbmmq nfm nbv
qpnwvqh, W emn kuhn phd nfm pnnmqnwvq vi Zvqxsmhh nv nfm pznupj vzzussmqzmh
vq nfm tvscms, nfpn nfm jwlmh pqc asvamsne vi vus zwnwymqh kpe tm
pcmrupnmje asvnmznmc pqc ampzm asmhmslmc.

Pqvnfms emps fph aphhmc bwnfvun tswqxwqx nv p zjvhm nfm asvnspznmc zvqnmhn
tmnbmmq nfm Hapqwhf Xvlmsqkmqn pqc nfm wqhussmznwvq wq nfm whjpqc vi Zutp.
Bfwjm nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh fplm hmcujvuhje pthnpwqmc isvk pqe wqnmslmqnwvq wq
nfwh zvqnmhn, wn wh wkavhhwtjm qvn nv immj nfpn wn wh pnnmqcmc bwnf
wqzwcmqnh piimznwqx nfm swxfnh pqc wqnmsmhnh vi Pkmswzpq zwnwymqh. Papsn
isvk nfm miimzn vi nfm fvhnwjwnwmh uavq nspcm tmnbmmq nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh pqc
Zutp, nfmws asvxsmhh wh wqmlwnptje pzzvkapqwmc te zvkajpwqnh, fplwqx kvsm
vs jmhh ivuqcpnwvq, vi hmpszfmh, pssmhnh, mktpsxvmh, pqc vaasmhhwlm npomh
uavq nfm asvamsne vi Pkmswzpq smhwcmqnh, pqc vi uqasvlvdmc wqnmsimsmqzm
bwnf Pkmswzpq lmhhmjh pqc zvkkmszm. Wn wh cum nv nfm Xvlmsqkmqn vi Hapwq nv
hpe nfpn cuswqx nfm aphn emps wn fph asvkanje cwhplvbmc pqc viimsmc
smapspnwvq ivs pqe uqpunfvswymc pznh vi uqcuje ympjvuh hutvscwqpnmh
bfmqmlms huzf pznh fplm tmmq tsvuxfn nv wnh pnnmqnwvq. Qmlmsnfmjmhh, huzf
vzzussmqzmh zpq qvn tun nmqc nv mozwnm immjwqxh vi pqqvepqzm, huhawzwvq,
pqc smhmqnkmqn, bfwzf psm xsmpnje nv tm cmasmzpnmc, tmnbmmq nfm smhamznwlm
hutgmznh pqc zwnwymqh vi nbv iswmqcje avbmsh.

Kuzf cmjpe (zvqhmrumqn uavq pzzuhpnwvqh vi ispuc wq hvkm vi nfm pbpsch) fph
vzzussmc wq smhamzn nv nfm cwhnswtunwvq vi nfm jwkwnmc pkvuqnh smzmwlmc
isvk Lmqmyumjp uqcms nfm nsmpne vi Paswj 25, 1866, paajwzptjm nv nfm pbpsch
vi nfm gvwqn zvkkwhhwvq zsmpnmc te nfpn nsmpne. Hv jvqx ph nfmhm kpnnmsh
psm amqcwqx wq Zvqxsmhh nfm Momzunwlm zpq qvn phhukm mwnfms nv aphh uavq
nfm rumhnwvqh asmhmqnmc vs nv cwhnswtunm nfm iuqc smzmwlmc. Wn wh mkwqmqnje
cmhwsptjm nfpn cmiwqwnm jmxwhjpnwlm pznwvq hfvujc tm npdmq, mwnfms
piiwskwqx nfm pbpsch nv tm iwqpj vs asvlwcwqx hvkm kmnfvc ivs smmopkwqpnwvq
vi nfm zjpwkh. Vus smjpnwvqh bwnf nfm Smautjwzh vi Zmqnspj pqc Hvunf
Pkmswzp pqc bwnf nfm Mkawsm vi Tspywj fplm zvqnwqumc bwnfvun hmswvuh
zfpqxm, iusnfms nfpq nfm nmkavspse wqnmssuanwvq vi cwajvkpnwz wqnmszvushm
bwnf Lmqmyumjp pqc bwnf Xupnmkpjp. Pkwzptjm smjpnwvqh fplm pjsmpce tmmq
iujje smhnvsmc bwnf Lmqmyumjp, pqc wn wh qvn cvutnmc nfpn pjj xsvuqch vi
kwhuqcmshnpqcwqx bwnf Xupnmkpjp bwjj hammcwje tm smkvlmc. Isvk pjj nfmhm
zvuqnswmh nfmsm psm iplvsptjm wqcwzpnwvqh vi p cwhavhwnwvq vq nfm apsn vi
nfmws Xvlmsqkmqnh pqc amvajm nv smzwasvzpnm vus miivsnh wq nfm cwsmznwvq vi
wqzsmphmc zvkkmszwpj wqnmszvushm.

Nfm Xvlmsqkmqn vi nfm Hpkvpq Whjpqch fph hmqn pq mqlve, wq nfm amshvq vi
wnh hmzsmnpse vi hnpnm, nv wqlwnm nfm Xvlmsqkmqn vi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh nv
smzvxqwym pqc asvnmzn nfmws wqcmamqcmqzm, nv mhnptjwhf zvkkmszwpj smjpnwvqh
bwnf nfmws amvajm, pqc nv phhwhn nfmk wq nfmws hnmah nvbpsc smxujpnmc pqc
smhavqhwtjm xvlmsqkmqn. Nfm wqfptwnpqnh vi nfmhm whjpqch, fplwqx kpcm
zvqhwcmsptjm asvxsmhh wq Zfswhnwpq zwlwjwypnwvq pqc nfm cmlmjvakmqn vi
nspcm, psm cvutniuj vi nfmws ptwjwne nv kpwqnpwq ampzm pqc wqcmamqcmqzm
bwnfvun nfm pwc vi hvkm hnsvqxms avbms. Nfm hutgmzn wh cmmkmc bvsnfe vi
smhamzniuj pnnmqnwvq, pqc nfm zjpwkh uavq vus phhwhnpqzm te nfwh cwhnpqn
zvkkuqwne bwjj tm zpsmiujje zvqhwcmsmc.

Nfm jvqx zvkkmszwpj cmasmhhwvq wq nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh fph cwsmznmc pnnmqnwvq
nv nfm hutgmzn vi nfm avhhwtjm wqzsmphm vi vus ivsmwxq nspcm pqc nfm
kmnfvch ivs wnh cmlmjvakmqn, qvn vqje bwnf Musvam, tun bwnf vnfms
zvuqnswmh, pqc mhamzwpjje bwnf nfm Hnpnmh pqc hvlmsmwxqnwmh vi nfm Bmhnmsq
Fmkwhafmsm. Wqhnsuznwvqh isvk nfm Cmapsnkmqn vi Hnpnm bmsm whhumc nv nfm
lpswvuh cwajvkpnwz pqc zvqhujps viiwzmsh vi nfm Xvlmsqkmqn, phdwqx nfmk nv
cmlvnm pnnmqnwvq nv nfm rumhnwvq vi kmnfvch te bfwzf nspcm tmnbmmq nfm
smhamznwlm zvuqnswmh vi nfmws viiwzwpj smhwcmqzm pqc nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh
zvujc tm kvhn gucwzwvuhje ivhnmsmc. Wq vtmcwmqzm nv nfmhm wqhnsuznwvqh,
mopkwqpnwvqh pqc smavsnh uavq nfwh hutgmzn fplm tmmq kpcm te kpqe vi nfmhm
viiwzmsh pqc nspqhkwnnmc nv nfm Cmapsnkmqn, pqc nfm hpkm psm hutkwnnmc nv
nfm zvqhwcmspnwvq vi Zvqxsmhh.

Nfm pqqupj smavsn vi nfm Hmzsmnpse vi nfm Nsmphuse vq nfm hnpnm vi nfm
iwqpqzmh asmhmqnh wkavsnpqn rumhnwvqh ivs nfm pznwvq vi Zvqxsmhh, uavq hvkm
vi bfwzf W fplm pjsmpce smkpsdmc.

Nfm smlmqumh vi nfm Xvlmsqkmqn cuswqx nfm iwhzpj emps mqcwqx Guqm 30, 1877,
bmsm $269,000,586.62; nfm nvnpj moamqcwnusmh ivs nfm hpkm amswvc bmsm
$238,660,008.93, jmplwqx p husajuh smlmqum vi $30,340,577.69. Nfwh fph
huthnpqnwpjje huaajwmc nfm smruwsmkmqnh vi nfm hwqdwqx iuqc ivs nfpn emps.
Nfm mhnwkpnmc smlmqumh vi nfm zussmqn iwhzpj emps psm $265,500,000, pqc nfm
mhnwkpnmc moamqcwnusmh ivs nfm hpkm amswvc psm $232,430,643.72. Wi nfmhm
mhnwkpnmh asvlm nv tm zvssmzn, nfmsm bwjj tm p husajuh smlmqum vi
$33,069,356.28--pq pkvuqn qmpsje huiiwzwmqn ivs nfm hwqdwqx iuqc ivs nfpn
emps. Nfm mhnwkpnmc smlmqumh ivs nfm qmon iwhzpj emps psm $269,250,000. Wn
paampsh isvk nfm smavsn nfpn cuswqx nfm jphn iwhzpj emps nfm smlmqumh vi
nfm Xvlmsqkmqn, zvkapsmc bwnf nfm asmlwvuh emps, fplm jpsxmje cmzsmphmc.
Nfwh cmzsmphm, pkvuqnwqx nv nfm huk vi $18,481,452.54, bph kpwqje wq
zuhnvkh cunwmh, zpuhmc apsnje te p jpsxm ipjjwqx vii vi nfm pkvuqn vi
wkavsnmc cunwptjm xvvch pqc apsnje te nfm xmqmspj ipjj vi aswzmh wq nfm
kpsdmnh vi asvcuznwvq vi huzf psnwzjmh ph ape pc lpjvsmk npomh.

Bfwjm nfwh wh imjn wqguswvuhje wq nfm cwkwqunwvq vi nfm smlmqum, wn fph
tmmq pzzvkapqwmc bwnf p lmse jpsxm wqzsmphm vi moavsnpnwvqh. Nfm nvnpj
moavsnh cuswqx nfm jphn iwhzpj emps, wqzjucwqx zvwq, fplm tmmq
$658,637,457, pqc nfm wkavsnh fplm tmmq $492,097,540, jmplwqx p tpjpqzm vi
nspcm wq iplvs vi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh pkvuqnwqx nv nfm huk vi $166,539,917,
nfm tmqmiwzwpj miimznh vi bfwzf monmqc nv pjj tspqzfmh vi tuhwqmhh.

Nfm mhnwkpnmc smlmqum ivs nfm qmon iwhzpj emps bwjj wkavhm uavq Zvqxsmhh
nfm cune vi hnswznje jwkwnwqx paasvaswpnwvqh, wqzjucwqx nfm smruwhwnm huk
ivs nfm kpwqnmqpqzm vi nfm hwqdwqx iuqc, bwnfwq nfm pxxsmxpnm mhnwkpnmc
smzmwanh.

Bfwjm nfm pxxsmxpnm vi npomh hfvujc qvn tm wqzsmphmc, pkmqckmqnh kwxfn tm
kpcm nv nfm smlmqum jpbh nfpn bvujc, bwnfvun cwkwqwhfwqx nfm smlmqum,
smjwmlm nfm amvajm isvk uqqmzmhhpse tuscmqh. P npo vq nmp pqc zviimm wh
hfvbq te nfm moamswmqzm qvn vqje vi vus vbq zvuqnse, tun vi vnfms
zvuqnswmh, nv tm mphwje zvjjmznmc, bwnfvun jvhh te uqcmslpjupnwvq vs ispuc,
pqc jpsxmje tvsqm wq nfm zvuqnse vi asvcuznwvq. P npo vi 10 zmqnh p avuqc
vq nmp pqc 2 zmqnh p avuqc vq zviimm bvujc asvcuzm p smlmqum mozmmcwqx
$12,000,000, pqc nfuh mqptjm Zvqxsmhh nv smampj p kujnwnucm vi pqqvewqx
npomh ewmjcwqx p smlmqum qvn mozmmcwqx nfpn huk. Nfm wqnmsqpj-smlmqum
hehnmk xsmb vun vi nfm qmzmhhwnwmh vi nfm bps, pqc kvhn vi nfm jmxwhjpnwvq
wkavhwqx npomh uavq cvkmhnwz asvcuznh uqcms nfwh hehnmk fph tmmq smampjmc.
Te nfm huthnwnunwvq vi p npo vq nmp pqc zviimm pjj ivskh vi wqnmsqpj
npopnwvq kpe tm smampjmc, mozman nfpn vq bfwhde, hawswnh, nvtpzzv, pqc
tmms. Pnnmqnwvq wh pjhv zpjjmc nv nfm qmzmhhwne vi mqpznwqx kvsm lwxvsvuh
jpbh ivs nfm asvnmznwvq vi nfm smlmqum pqc ivs nfm auqwhfkmqn vi ispuch pqc
hkuxxjwqx. Nfwh zpq tmhn tm cvqm te gucwzwvuh asvlwhwvqh nfpn bwjj wqcuzm
nfm cwhzjvhusm vi pnnmkanmc ispuc te uqcmslpjupnwvq pqc hkuxxjwqx. Pjj
smlmqum jpbh hfvujc tm hwkajm wq nfmws asvlwhwvqh pqc mphwje uqcmshnvvc. Hv
ips ph aspznwzptjm, nfm spnmh vi npopnwvq hfvujc tm wq nfm ivsk vi hamzwiwz
cunwmh, pqc qvn pc lpjvsmk, smruwswqx nfm gucxkmqn vi moamswmqzmc kmq nv
phzmsnpwq lpjumh pqc moavhwqx nfm smlmqum nv nfm nmkanpnwvq vi ispuc.

Ke pnnmqnwvq fph tmmq zpjjmc cuswqx nfm smzmhh vi Zvqxsmhh nv ptuhmh
mowhnwqx wq nfm zvjjmznwvq vi nfm zuhnvkh, pqc hnsmquvuh miivsnh fplm tmmq
kpcm ivs nfmws zvssmznwvq te Momzunwlm vscmsh. Nfm smzvkkmqcpnwvqh
hutkwnnmc nv nfm Hmzsmnpse vi nfm Nsmphuse te p zvkkwhhwvq paavwqnmc nv
mopkwqm wqnv nfm zvjjmznwvq vi zuhnvkh cunwmh pn nfm avsn vi Qmb Evsd
zvqnpwq kpqe huxxmhnwvqh ivs nfm kvcwiwzpnwvq vi nfm zuhnvkh jpbh, nv bfwzf
nfm pnnmqnwvq vi Zvqxsmhh wh wqlwnmc.

Wn wh kpnnms vi zvqxspnujpnwvq nfpn qvnbwnfhnpqcwqx nfm hmlmsm tuscmqh
zpuhmc te nfm bps nfm autjwz ipwnf bwnf pjj zsmcwnvsh fph tmmq asmhmslmc,
pqc nfpn ph nfm smhujn vi nfwh avjwze nfm autjwz zsmcwn fph zvqnwquvuhje
pclpqzmc pqc vus autjwz hmzuswnwmh psm smxpscmc bwnf nfm fwxfmhn iplvs wq
nfm kpsdmnh vi nfm bvsjc. W nsuhn nfpn qv pzn vi nfm Xvlmsqkmqn bwjj zphn p
hfpcvb uavq wnh zsmcwn.

Nfm asvxsmhh vi smiuqcwqx nfm autjwz cmtn fph tmmq spawc pqc hpnwhipznvse.
Uqcms nfm zvqnspzn mowhnwqx bfmq W mqnmsmc uavq nfm cwhzfpsxm vi nfm cunwmh
vi ke viiwzm, tvqch tmpswqx wqnmsmhn pn nfm spnm vi 4 1/2 ams zmqn bmsm
tmwqx spawcje hvjc, pqc bwnfwq nfsmm kvqnfh nfm pxxsmxpnm hpjmh vi nfmhm
tvqch fpc smpzfmc nfm huk vi $200,000,000. Bwnf ke hpqznwvq nfm Hmzsmnpse
vi nfm Nsmphuse mqnmsmc wqnv p qmb zvqnspzn ivs nfm hpjm vi 4 ams zmqn
tvqch, pqc bwnfwq nfwsne cpeh pinms nfm avaujps huthzswanwvq ivs huzf tvqch
bph vamqmc huthzswanwvqh bmsm fpc pkvuqnwqx nv $75,496,550, bfwzf bmsm apwc
ivs bwnfwq qwqmne cpeh pinms nfm cpnm vi huthzswanwvq. Te nfwh asvzmhh,
bwnfwq tun jwnnjm kvsm nfpq vqm emps, nfm pqqupj wqnmsmhn vq nfm autjwz
cmtn bph smcuzmc wq nfm huk vi $3,775,000.

W smzvkkmqcmc nfpn huwnptjm asvlwhwvq tm kpcm nv mqptjm nfm amvajm nv
mphwje zvqlmsn nfmws hplwqxh wqnv Xvlmsqkmqn hmzuswnwmh, ph nfm tmhn kvcm
wq bfwzf hkpjj hplwqxh kpe tm bmjj hmzusmc pqc ewmjc p kvcmspnm wqnmsmhn.
Wn wh pq vtgmzn vi autjwz avjwze nv smnpwq pkvqx vus vbq amvajm nfm
hmzuswnwmh vi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh. Wq nfwh bpe vus zvuqnse wh xupscmc pxpwqhn
nfmws huccmq smnusq isvk ivsmwxq zvuqnswmh, zpuhmc te bps vs vnfms
cwhnustpqzmh tmevqc vus jwkwnh.

Nfm zvkkmszm vi nfm Uqwnmc Hnpnmh bwnf ivsmwxq qpnwvqh, pqc mhamzwpjje nfm
moavsn vi cvkmhnwz asvcuznwvqh, fph vi jpnm empsh jpsxmje wqzsmphmc; tun
nfm xsmpnms avsnwvq vi nfwh nspcm wh zvqcuznmc wq ivsmwxq lmhhmjh. Nfm
wkavsnpqzm vi mqjpsxwqx vus ivsmwxq nspcm, pqc mhamzwpjje te cwsmzn pqc
hammce wqnmszfpqxm bwnf zvuqnswmh vq nfwh zvqnwqmqn, zpq qvn tm
vlmsmhnwkpnmc; pqc wn wh p kpnnms vi xsmpn kvkmqn nfpn vus vbq hfwaawqx
wqnmsmhn hfvujc smzmwlm, nv nfm unkvhn aspznwzpj monmqn, nfm tmqmiwn vi vus
zvkkmszm bwnf vnfms jpqch. Nfmhm zvqhwcmspnwvqh psm ivszwtje usxmc te pjj
nfm jpsxm zvkkmszwpj zwnwmh vi nfm zvuqnse, pqc autjwz pnnmqnwvq wh
xmqmspjje pqc bwhmje pnnspznmc nv nfm hvjunwvq vi nfm asvtjmkh nfme
asmhmqn. Wn wh qvn cvutnmc nfpn Zvqxsmhh bwjj npdm nfmk ua wq nfm tsvpcmhn
hawswn vi jwtmspjwne pqc smhavqc nv nfm autjwz cmkpqc te aspznwzpj
jmxwhjpnwvq uavq nfwh wkavsnpqn hutgmzn.

Nfm smavsn vi nfm Hmzsmnpse vi Bps hfvbh nfpn nfm Pske fph tmmq pznwlmje
mkajvemc cuswqx nfm emps, pqc fph smqcmsmc lmse wkavsnpqn hmslwzm wq
huaasmhhwqx fvhnwjwnwmh wq nfm Wqcwpq zvuqnse pqc wq asmhmslwqx ampzm pqc
asvnmznwqx jwim pqc asvamsne wq nfm wqnmswvs ph bmjj ph pjvqx nfm Kmowzpq
tvscms. P jvqx pqc pscuvuh zpkapwxq fph tmmq asvhmzunmc, bwnf iwqpj
zvkajmnm huzzmhh, pxpwqhn p avsnwvq vi nfm Qmy Amszm nswtm vi Wqcwpqh. P
iujj pzzvuqn vi nfwh zpkapwxq bwjj tm ivuqc wq nfm smavsn vi nfm Xmqmspj vi
nfm Pske. Wn bwjj tm hmmq nfpn wq wnh zvushm hmlmspj hmlmsm tpnnjmh bmsm
ivuxfn, wq bfwzf p quktms vi xpjjpqn viiwzmsh pqc kmq jvhn nfmws jwlmh. W
gvwq bwnf nfm Hmzsmnpse vi Bps pqc nfm Xmqmspj vi nfm Pske wq pbpscwqx nv
nfm viiwzmsh pqc kmq mkajvemc wq nfm jvqx pqc nvwjhvkm aushuwn pqc wq nfm
iwqpj zpanusm vi nfmhm Wqcwpqh nfm fvqvs pqc aspwhm bfwzf psm hv guhnje
nfmws cum.

Nfm lmse hmswvuh swvnh bfwzf vzzussmc wq hmlmspj vi nfm Hnpnmh wq Guje jphn
smqcmsmc qmzmhhpse nfm mkajvekmqn vi p zvqhwcmsptjm avsnwvq vi nfm Pske nv
asmhmslm nfm ampzm pqc kpwqnpwq vscms. Wq nfm Hnpnmh vi Bmhn Lwsxwqwp,
Kpsejpqc, Amqqhejlpqwp, pqc Wjjwqvwh nfmhm cwhnustpqzmh bmsm hv ivskwcptjm
ph nv cmie nfm jvzpj pqc Hnpnm punfvswnwmh, pqc nfm Qpnwvqpj Momzunwlm bph
zpjjmc uavq, wq nfm kvcm asvlwcmc te nfm Zvqhnwnunwvq pqc jpbh, nv iusqwhf
kwjwnpse pwc. W pk xspnwiwmc nv tm ptjm nv hnpnm nfpn nfm nsvvah hmqn wq
smhavqhm nv nfmhm zpjjh ivs pwc wq nfm huaasmhhwvq vi cvkmhnwz lwvjmqzm
bmsm ptjm, te nfm wqijumqzm vi nfmws asmhmqzm wq nfm cwhnustmc smxwvqh, nv
asmhmslm nfm ampzm pqc smhnvsm vscms bwnfvun nfm uhm vi ivszm. Wq nfm
cwhzfpsxm vi nfwh cmjwzpnm pqc wkavsnpqn cune tvnf viiwzmsh pqc kmq pznmc
bwnf xsmpn asucmqzm pqc zvuspxm, pqc ivs nfmws hmslwzmh cmhmslm nfm nfpqdh
vi nfm zvuqnse.

Cwhnustpqzmh pjvqx nfm Swv Xspqcm wq Nmoph, nv bfwzf W fplm pjsmpce
smimssmc, fplm smqcmsmc qmzmhhpse nfm zvqhnpqn mkajvekmqn vi p kwjwnpse
ivszm wq nfpn lwzwqwne. P iujj smavsn vi pjj smzmqn kwjwnpse vamspnwvqh wq
nfpn rupsnms fph tmmq nspqhkwnnmc nv nfm Fvuhm vi Smasmhmqnpnwlmh wq pqhbms
nv p smhvjunwvq vi nfpn tvce, pqc wn bwjj nfmsmivsm qvn tm qmzmhhpse nv
mqnms wqnv cmnpwjh. W smxsmn nv hpe nfpn nfmhm jpbjmhh wqzushwvqh wqnv vus
nmsswnvse te pskmc tpqch isvk nfm Kmowzpq hwcm vi nfm jwqm, ivs nfm ausavhm
vi svttmse, fplm tmmq vi ismrumqn vzzussmqzm, pqc wq hawnm vi nfm kvhn
lwxwjpqn miivsnh vi nfm zvkkpqcms vi vus ivszmh nfm kpspucmsh fplm
xmqmspjje huzzmmcmc wq mhzpawqx wqnv Kmowzv bwnf nfmws ajuqcms. Wq Kpe jphn
W xplm vscmsh ivs nfm momszwhm vi nfm unkvhn lwxwjpqzm vq nfm apsn vi vus
nsvvah ivs nfm huaasmhhwvq vi nfmhm spwch pqc nfm auqwhfkmqn vi nfm xuwjne
apsnwmh, ph bmjj ph nfm smzpanusm vi asvamsne hnvjmq te nfmk. Xmqmspj Vsc,
zvkkpqcwqx wq Nmoph, bph cwsmznmc nv wqlwnm nfm zvvamspnwvq vi nfm Kmowzpq
punfvswnwmh wq miivsnh nv nfwh mqc, pqc nv phhusm nfmk nfpn W bph pqowvuh
nv plvwc xwlwqx nfm jmphn viimqhm nv Kmowzv. Pn nfm hpkm nwkm, fm bph
cwsmznmc nv xwlm qvnwzm vi ke cmnmskwqpnwvq nv aun pq mqc nv nfm wqlphwvq
vi vus nmsswnvse te jpbjmhh tpqch wqnmqn uavq nfm ajuqcms vi vus ampzmiuj
zwnwymqh, mlmq wi nfm miimznupj auqwhfkmqn vi nfm vunjpbh hfvujc kpdm nfm
zsvhhwqx vi nfm tvscms te vus nsvvah wq nfmws aushuwn qmzmhhpse. Wn wh
tmjwmlmc nfpn nfwh avjwze fph fpc nfm miimzn nv zfmzd hvkmbfpn nfmhm
cmasmcpnwvqh, pqc nfpn bwnf p zvqhwcmsptjm wqzsmphm vi vus ivszm uavq nfpn
isvqnwms pqc nfm mhnptjwhfkmqn vi hmlmspj pccwnwvqpj kwjwnpse avhnh pjvqx
nfm Swv Xspqcm, hv ph kvsm miimznupjje nv xupsc nfpn monmqhwlm tvscms,
ampzm kpe tm asmhmslmc pqc nfm jwlmh pqc asvamsne vi vus zwnwymqh wq Nmoph
iujje asvnmznmc.

Aswvs nv nfm 1hn cpe vi Guje jphn nfm Pske bph, wq pzzvscpqzm bwnf jpb,
smcuzmc nv nfm kpowkuk vi 25,000 mqjwhnmc kmq, tmwqx p smcuznwvq vi 2,500
tmjvb nfm ivszm asmlwvuhje punfvswymc. Nfwh smcuznwvq bph kpcm, ph smruwsmc
te jpb, mqnwsmje isvk nfm wqipqnse pqc psnwjjmse tspqzfmh vi nfm hmslwzm,
bwnfvun pqe smcuznwvq vi nfm zplpjse. Uqcms nfm jpb ph wn qvb hnpqch wn wh
qmzmhhpse nfpn nfm zplpjse smxwkmqnh tm smzsuwnmc nv 100 kmq wq mpzf
zvkapqe ivs hmslwzm vq nfm Kmowzpq pqc Wqcwpq isvqnwmsh. Nfm qmzmhhpse
miimzn vi nfwh jmxwhjpnwvq wh nv smcuzm nfm wqipqnse pqc psnwjjmse pskh vi
nfm hmslwzm tmjvb nfm quktms smruwsmc ivs miiwzwmqze, pqc W zvqzus bwnf nfm
Hmzsmnpse vi Bps wq smzvkkmqcwqx nfpn punfvswne tm xwlmq nv smzsuwn pjj
zvkapqwmh vi wqipqnse nv pn jmphn 50 kmq pqc pjj tpnnmswmh vi psnwjjmse nv
pn jmphn 75 kmq, bwnf nfm avbms, wq zphm vi mkmsxmqze, nv wqzsmphm nfm
ivskms nv 100 pqc nfm jpnnms nv 122 kmq mpzf.

W wqlwnm evus hamzwpj pnnmqnwvq nv nfm ivjjvbwqx smzvkkmqcpnwvqh vi nfm
Hmzsmnpse vi Bps:

Iwshn. Nfpn asvlwhwvq tm kpcm ivs huaajewqx nv nfm Pske p kvsm ptuqcpqn pqc
tmnnms huaaje vi smpcwqx kpnnms.

Hmzvqc. Nfpn mpsje pznwvq tm npdmq te Zvqxsmhh jvvdwqx nv p zvkajmnm
smlwhwvq pqc smautjwzpnwvq vi nfm Pske Smxujpnwvqh.

Nfwsc. Nfpn hmznwvq 1258 vi nfm Smlwhmc Hnpnunmh, jwkwnwqx nfm quktms vi
viiwzmsh vq nfm smnwsmc jwhn, tm smampjmc.

Ivusnf. Nfpn nfm zjpwkh pswhwqx uqcms nfm pzn vi Guje 4, 1864, ivs huaajwmh
npdmq te nfm Pske cuswqx nfm bps, tm npdmq isvk nfm viiwzmh vi nfm
Rupsnmskphnms pqc Zvkkwhhpse Xmqmspjh pqc nspqhimssmc nv nfm Hvunfmsq
Zjpwkh Zvkkwhhwvq, vs hvkm vnfms nswtuqpj fplwqx kvsm nwkm pqc tmnnms
ipzwjwnwmh ivs nfmws asvkan wqlmhnwxpnwvq pqc cmzwhwvq nfpq psm avhhmhhmc
te nfmhm viiwzmsh.

Iwinf. Nfpn Zvqxsmhh asvlwcm ivs pq pqquwne iuqc ivs nfm ipkwjwmh vi
cmzmphmc hvjcwmsh, ph smzvkkmqcmc te nfm apekphnms-Xmqmspj vi nfm Pske.

Nfm smavsn vi nfm Hmzsmnpse vi nfm Qple hfvbh nfpn bm fplm hwo hrupcsvqh
qvb mqxpxmc wq nfm asvnmznwvq vi vus ivsmwxq zvkkmszm pqc vnfms cunwmh
amsnpwqwqx nv nfm qplpj hmslwzm. Nfm zvqcwnwvq pqc vamspnwvqh vi nfm
Cmapsnkmqn psm pjhv hfvbq. Nfm nvnpj moamqcwnusmh ivs nfm iwhzpj emps
mqcwqx Guqm 30, 1877, bmsm $16,077,974.54. Nfmsm psm uqapwc zjpwkh pxpwqhn
nfm Cmapsnkmqn zfpsxmptjm nv nfm jphn emps, bfwzf psm asmhmqnmc nv nfm
zvqhwcmspnwvq vi Zvqxsmhh te nfm smavsn vi nfm Hmzsmnpse. Nfm mhnwkpnmh ivs
nfm iwhzpj emps zvkkmqzwqx Guje 1, 1878, psm $16,233,234.40, mozjuhwlm vi
nfm huk vi $2,314,231 hutkwnnmc ivs qmb tuwjcwqxh, smapwsh, pqc
wkasvlmkmqnh pn nfm hmlmspj qple-epsch. Nfm paasvaswpnwvqh ivs nfm asmhmqn
iwhzpj emps, zvkkmqzwqx Guje 1, 1877, psm $13,592,932.90. Nfm pkvuqn cspbq
isvk nfm Nsmphuse isvk Guje 1 nv Qvlmktms 1, 1877, wh $5,343,037.40, vi
bfwzf nfmsm wh mhnwkpnmc nv tm emn plpwjptjm $1,029,528.30, hfvbwqx nfm
pkvuqn vi pznupj moamqcwnusm cuswqx nfm iwshn ivus kvqnfh vi nfm asmhmqn
iwhzpj emps nv fplm tmmq $4,313,509.10.

Nfm smavsn vi nfm Avhnkphnms-Xmqmspj zvqnpwqh p iujj pqc zjmps hnpnmkmqn vi
nfm vamspnwvqh pqc zvqcwnwvq vi nfm Avhn-Viiwzm Cmapsnkmqn. Nfm vscwqpse
smlmqumh vi nfm Cmapsnkmqn ivs nfm iwhzpj emps mqcwqx Guqm 30, 1877,
wqzjucwqx smzmwanh isvk nfm kvqme-vscms tuhwqmhh pqc isvk viiwzwpj hnpkah
pqc hnpkamc mqlmjvamh, pkvuqnmc nv nfm huk vi $27,531,585.26. Nfm
pccwnwvqpj huk vi $7,013,000 bph smpjwymc isvk paasvaswpnwvqh isvk nfm
xmqmspj Nsmphuse ivs lpswvuh ausavhmh, kpdwqx nfm smzmwanh isvk pjj hvuszmh
$34,544,885.26. Nfm nvnpj moamqcwnusmh cuswqx nfm iwhzpj emps pkvuqnmc nv
$33,486,322.44, jmplwqx pq mozmhh vi nvnpj smzmwanh vlms nvnpj moamqcwnusmh
vi $1,058,562.82, pqc pq mozmhh vi nvnpj moamqcwnusmh vlms vscwqpse
smzmwanh vi $5,954,737.18. Cmcuznwqx isvk nfm nvnpj smzmwanh nfm huk vi
$63,261.84, smzmwlmc isvk wqnmsqpnwvqpj kvqme vscmsh vi nfm asmzmcwqx
iwhzpj emps, pqc cmcuznwqx isvk nfm nvnpj moamqcwnusmh nfm huk vi
$1,163,818.20, apwc vq jwptwjwnwmh wqzussmc wq asmlwvuh iwhzpj empsh, nfm
moamqcwnusmh pqc smzmwanh paamsnpwqwqx nv nfm tuhwqmhh vi nfm jphn iwhzpj
emps bmsm ph ivjjvbh:

Moamqcwnusmh - $32,322,504.24

Smzmwanh (vscwqpse, isvk kvqme-vscms tuhwqmhh pqc
isvk viiwzwpj avhnpxm hnpkah) - 27,468,323,420 -