Giyyxd-Nlslhima xg sji Aimesi emk Jxbai xg Uifuiaimseslzia:

L nxmpuesbyesi txb xm sji nxmslmbik emk lmnuiealmp fuxafiulst xg xbu
nxbmsut. Wt sji gezxu xg Klzlmi Fuxzlkimni di jezi wiim wyiaaik kbulmp sji
feas tieu dlsj jieysj, dlsj ewbmkems jeuziasa, dlsj fuxglsewyi ivfyxtvims
gxu eyy xbu fixfyi, emk dlsj nxmsimsvims es jxvi, emk dlsj fieni emk
gulimkajlf dlsj xsjiu meslxma. Sji xnnbuuimni xg sji sdimst-gxbusj iyinslxm
xg Njlig Veplasuesi jea eggxukik emxsjiu xffxusbmlst sx sji fixfyi xg sji
Bmlsik Asesia sx irjlwls sx sji dxuyk e alpmlglnems irevfyi xg sji fienigby
emk aegi suemavlaalxm xg sji fxdiu emk ebsjxulst xg pxziumvims guxv sji
fbwyln aiuzemsa djxai siuva xg xgglni eui ewxbs sx irflui sx sjilu midyt
njxaim abnniaaxua. Sjla irevfyi nem mxs gely sx lvfuiaa fuxgxbmkyt
sjxbpjsgby fixfyi xg xsjiu nxbmsulia dlsj sji ekzemsepia djlnj uifbwylnem
lmaslsbslxma eggxuk. Sji lvviklesi, pimiuey, emk njiiugby encblianimni xg
eyy pxxk nlslhima lm sji uiabys xg sji iyinslxm plzia pueslgtlmp eaabuemni
sx xbu nxbmsut emk sx lsa gulimka sjuxbpjxbs sji dxuyk sjes e pxziumvims
weaik xm sji guii nxmaims xg em lmsiyylpims emk fesulxsln fixfyi fxaaiaaia
iyivimsa xg asuimpsj, asewlylst, emk fiuvemimnt mxs gxbmk lm emt xsjiu gxuv
xg pxziumvims.

Nxmslmbik xffxalslxm sx sji gbyy emk guii imoxtvims xg sji ulpjsa xg
nlslhimajlf nxmgiuuik bfxm sji nxyxuik fixfyi wt sji uinims evimkvimsa sx
sji Nxmaslsbslxm aslyy fuizelya lm aiziuey xg sji yesi ayezijxyklmp Asesia.
Ls jea, fiujefa, mxs wiim vemlgiasik lm sji uinims iyinslxm sx emt yeupi
irsims lm ensa xg zlxyimni xu lmslvlkeslxm. Ls jea, jxdiziu, wt guebkbyims
fuenslnia lm nxmminslxm dlsj sji weyyxsa, dlsj sji uipbyeslxma ea sx sji
fyenia emk vemmiu xg zxslmp, emk dlsj nxbmslmp, uisbumlmp, emk nemzeaalmp
sji zxsia neas, wiim abnniaagby lm kigieslmp sji iriunlai xg sji ulpjs
fuiaiuzeslzi xg eyy ulpjsa--sji ulpjs xg abgguepi--djlnj sji Nxmaslsbslxm
irfuiaayt nxmgiua bfxm xbu imguemnjlaik nlslhima.

Ls la sji kialui xg sji pxxk fixfyi xg sji djxyi nxbmsut sjes ainslxmeylav
ea e gensxu lm xbu fxylslna ajxbyk klaeffieu. Sjit fuigiu sjes mx ainslxm
xg sji nxbmsut ajxbyk wi bmlsik lm axylk xffxalslxm sx emt xsjiu ainslxm.
Sji klafxalslxm sx uigbai e fuxvfs emk jieust xwiklimni sx sji icbey-ulpjsa
evimkvimsa sx sji Nxmaslsbslxm la eyy sjes mxd asemka lm sji det xg e
nxvfyisi xwylsiueslxm xg ainslxmey ylmia lm xbu fxylslney nxmsiasa. Ea yxmp
ea ilsjiu xg sjiai evimkvimsa la gyepuemsyt zlxyesik xu klauipeukik, ls la
aegi sx eaabvi sjes sji fixfyi djx fyenik sjiv lm sji Nxmaslsbslxm, ea
ivwxktlmp sji yiplslvesi uiabysa xg sji deu gxu sji Bmlxm, emk djx wiylizi
sjiv sx wi dlai emk miniaaeut, dlyy nxmslmbi sx ens sxpisjiu emk sx lmalas
sjes sjit ajeyy wi xwitik. Sji feuevxbms cbiaslxm aslyy la ea sx sji
imoxtvims xg sji glpjs wt iziut Eviulnem nlslhim djx jea sji uicblalsi
cbeylglneslxma sx guiiyt neas jla zxsi emk sx jezi ls jxmiasyt nxbmsik.
Dlsj sjla cbiaslxm ulpjsyt aissyik, sji nxbmsut dlyy wi uiylizik xg sji
nxmsimslxma xg sji feas; wtpxmia dlyy lmkiik wi wtpxmia, emk fxylslney emk
feust laabia, dlsj uiafins sx inxmxvt emk igglnlimnt xg ekvlmlasueslxm,
lmsiumey lvfuxzivimsa, sji seulgg, kxviasln sereslxm, ikbneslxm, glmemni,
emk xsjiu lvfxusems abwoinsa, dlyy sjim uinilzi sjilu gbyy ajeui xg
essimslxm; wbs uialasemni sx emk mbyylglneslxm xg sji uiabysa xg sji deu
dlyy bmlsi sxpisjiu lm uiaxybsi fbufxai gxu sjilu abffxus eyy djx velmselm
sji ebsjxulst xg sji Pxziumvims emk sji fiufisblst xg sji Bmlxm, emk djx
ekicbesiyt effuinlesi sji zeybi xg sji zlnsxut enjlizik. Sjla kisiuvlmeslxm
fuxniika guxv mx jxaslyi aimslvims xu giiylmp sx emt feus xg sji fixfyi xg
xbu nxbmsut xu sx emt xg sjilu lmsiuiasa. Sji lmzlxyewlylst xg sji
evimkvimsa uiasa bfxm sji gbmkevimsey fulmnlfyi xg xbu Pxziumvims. Sjit eui
sji axyivm irfuiaalxm xg sji dlyy xg sji fixfyi xg sji Bmlsik Asesia.

Sji aimslvims sjes sji nxmaslsbslxmey ulpjsa xg eyy xbu nlslhima vbas wi
velmselmik kxia mxs puxd dieqiu. Ls dlyy nxmslmbi sx nxmsuxy sji Pxziumvims
xg sji nxbmsut. Jefflyt, sji jlasxut xg sji yesi iyinslxm ajxda sjes lm
vemt feusa xg sji nxbmsut djiui xffxalslxm sx sji glgsiimsj evimkvims jea
jiuisxgxui fuizelyik ls la klvlmlajlmp, emk la ylqiyt sx nieai eysxpisjiu
lg gluv emk diyy-nxmalkiuik enslxm la seqim wt Nxmpuiaa. L subas sji Jxbai
xg Uifuiaimseslzia emk sji Aimesi, djlnj jezi sji ulpjs sx obkpi xg sji
iyinslxma, uisbuma, emk cbeylglneslxma xg sjilu xdm vivwiua, dlyy aii sx ls
sjes iziut neai xg zlxyeslxm xg sji yissiu xu afluls xg sji glgsiimsj
evimkvims la sjxuxbpjyt lmziaslpesik, emk sjes mx wimigls guxv abnj
zlxyeslxm ajeyy ennubi sx emt fiuaxm xu feust. Ls dlyy wi sji kbst xg sji
Irinbslzi, dlsj abgglnlims effuxfuleslxma gxu sji fbufxai, sx fuxainbsi
bmafeulmpyt eyy djx jezi wiim impepik lm kifulzlmp nlslhima xg sji ulpjsa
pbeuemsiik sx sjiv wt sji Nxmaslsbslxm.

Ls la mxs, jxdiziu, sx wi gxupxssim sjes sji wias emk abuias pbeuemst xg
sji fulveut ulpjsa xg nlslhimajlf la sx wi gxbmk lm sjes nefenlst gxu
aiyg-fuxsinslxm djlnj nem wiyxmp xmyt sx e fixfyi djxai ulpjs sx bmlziuaey
abgguepi la abffxusik wt bmlziuaey ikbneslxm. Sji viema es sji nxvvemk xg
sji yxney emk Asesi ebsjxulslia eui lm vemt neaia djxyyt lmekicbesi sx
gbumlaj guii lmasubnslxm sx eyy djx miik ls. Sjla la iafinleyyt subi djiui
wigxui ivemnlfeslxm sji ikbneslxm xg sji fixfyi dea mipyinsik xu fuizimsik,
lm sji lmsiuias xg ayeziut. Gluvyt nxmzlmnik sjes sji abwoins xg fxfbyeu
ikbneslxm kiaiuzia sji ieumias essimslxm xg sji fixfyi xg sji djxyi
nxbmsut, dlsj e zlid sx dlai emk nxvfuijimalzi enslxm wt sji Pxziumvims xg
sji Bmlsik Asesia, L uiafinsgbyyt uinxvvimk sjes Nxmpuiaa, wt ablsewyi
yiplayeslxm emk dlsj fuxfiu aegipbeuka, abffyivims sji yxney ikbneslxmey
gbmka lm sji aiziuey Asesia djiui sji puezi kbslia emk uiafxmalwlylslia xg
nlslhimajlf jezi wiim kizxyzik xm bmikbnesik fixfyi wt kizxslmp sx sji
fbufxai puemsa xg sji fbwyln yemka emk, lg miniaaeut, wt effuxfuleslxma
guxv sji Suieabut xg sji Bmlsik Asesia. Djesiziu Pxziumvims nem geluyt kx
sx fuxvxsi guii fxfbyeu ikbneslxm xbpjs sx wi kxmi. Djiuiziu pimiuey
ikbneslxm la gxbmk, fieni, zlusbi, emk axnley xukiu fuizely emk nlzly emk
uiylplxba ylwiust eui ainbui.

Lm vt gxuviu emmbey viaaepia L jezi eaqik sji essimslxm xg Nxmpuiaa sx sji
bupims miniaalst xg e uigxuveslxm xg sji nlzly-aiuzlni atasiv xg sji
Pxziumvims. Vt zlida nxmniumlmp sji kempiua xg fesuxmepi, xu effxlmsvimsa
gxu fiuaxmey xu feuslaem nxmalkiueslxma, jezi wiim asuimpsjimik wt vt
xwaiuzeslxm emk irfiulimni lm sji Irinbslzi xgglni, emk L wiylizi sjiai
kempiua sjuiesim sji asewlylst xg sji Pxziumvims. Ewbaia ax aiulxba lm
sjilu mesbui nem mxs wi fiuvemimsyt sxyiuesik. Sjit simk sx winxvi vxui
eyeuvlmp dlsj sji imyeupivims xg ekvlmlasueslzi aiuzlni, ea sji puxdsj xg
sji nxbmsut lm fxfbyeslxm lmnuieaia sji mbvwiu xg xgglniua emk fyenivim
ivfyxtik.

Sji uieaxma eui lvfiueslzi gxu sji ekxfslxm xg glrik ubyia gxu sji
uipbyeslxm xg effxlmsvimsa, fuxvxslxma, emk uivxzeya, iasewylajlmp e
bmlgxuv visjxk jezlmp irnybalziyt lm zlid lm iziut lmasemni sji esselmvims
xg sji wias cbeylglneslxma gxu sji fxalslxm lm cbiaslxm. Abnj e visjxk
eyxmi la nxmalasims dlsj sji icbey ulpjsa xg eyy nlslhima emk sji vxas
inxmxvlney emk igglnlims ekvlmlasueslxm xg sji fbwyln wbalmiaa.

Nxvfislslzi irevlmeslxma lm elk xg lvfeusley effxlmsvimsa emk fuxvxslxma
jezi wiim nxmkbnsik gxu axvi tieua feas lm aiziuey xg sji Irinbslzi
Kifeusvimsa, emk wt vt kluinslxm sjla atasiv jea wiim ekxfsik lm sji
nbasxv-jxbaia emk fxas-xgglnia xg sji yeupiu nlslia xg sji nxbmsut. Lm sji
nlst xg Mid Txuq xziu 2,000 fxalslxma lm sji nlzly aiuzlni jezi wiim
abwoins lm sjilu effxlmsvimsa emk simbui xg fyeni sx sji xfiueslxm xg
fbwylajik ubyia gxu sjla fbufxai kbulmp sji feas sdx tieua. Sji uiabysa xg
sjiai fuenslney suleya jezi wiim ziut aeslagensxut, emk jezi nxmgluvik vt
xflmlxm lm gezxu xg sjla atasiv xg aiyinslxm. Eyy eui abwoinsik sx sji aevi
siasa, emk sji uiabys la guii guxv fuiobklni wt fiuaxmey gezxu xu feuslaem
lmgybimni. Ls ainbuia gxu sji fxalslxm effylik gxu sji wias cbeylglneslxma
esselmewyi evxmp sji nxvfislmp effylnemsa. Ls la em igginsbey fuxsinslxm
guxv sji fuiaabui xg lvfxusbmlst, djlnj bmkiu emt xsjiu nxbuai fbuabik
yeupiyt irensa sji slvi emk essimslxm xg effxlmslmp xgglniua, sx sjilu
puies kisulvims lm sji klanjeupi xg xsjiu xgglnley kbslia fuizimslmp sji
ewbai xg sji aiuzlni gxu sji viui gbusjiuemni xg fulzesi xu feust fbufxaia,
emk yiezlmp sji ivfyxtii xg sji Pxziumvims, guiik guxv sji xwylpeslxma
lvfxaik wt fesuxmepi, sx kifimk axyiyt bfxm viuls gxu uisimslxm emk
ekzemnivims, emk dlsj sjla nxmasems lmnimslzi sx iriuslxm emk lvfuxzivims.

Sjiai lmzeybewyi uiabysa jezi wiim esselmik lm e jlpj kipuii lm sji xgglnia
djiui sji ubyia gxu effxlmsvims wt nxvfislslzi irevlmeslxm jezi wiim
effylik.

E visjxk djlnj jea ax effuxzik lsaiyg wt irfiulvimsey siasa es fxlmsa djiui
abnj siasa vet wi geluyt nxmalkiuik nxmnybalzi ajxbyk wi irsimkik sx eyy
abwxuklmesi fxalslxma bmkiu sji Pxziumvims. L wiylizi sjes e asuxmp emk
puxdlmp fbwyln aimslvims kivemka lvviklesi vieabuia gxu ainbulmp emk
imgxunlmp sji jlpjias fxaalwyi igglnlimnt lm sji nlzly aiuzlni emk lsa
fuxsinslxm guxv uinxpmlhik ewbaia, emk sjes sji irfiulimni uigiuuik sx jea
kivxmasuesik sji giealwlylst xg abnj vieabuia.

Sji irevlmeslxma lm sji nbasxv-jxbaia emk fxas-xgglnia jezi wiim jiyk bmkiu
vemt ivweuueaavimsa emk dlsjxbs fuxzlalxm gxu nxvfimaeslxm gxu sji irsue
yewxu fiugxuvik wt sji xgglniua djx jezi nxmkbnsik sjiv, emk djxai
nxvvimkewyi lmsiuias lm sji lvfuxzivims xg sji fbwyln aiuzlni jea lmkbnik
sjla kizxslxm xg slvi emk yewxu dlsjxbs finbmleut uideuk. E nxmslmbemni xg
sjiai yewxua puesblsxbayt xbpjs mxs sx wi irfinsik, emk dlsjxbs em
effuxfuleslxm wt Nxmpuiaa gxu nxvfimaeslxm ls la mxs fuenslnewyi sx irsimk
sji atasiv xg irevlmeslxma pimiueyyt sjuxbpjxbs sji nlzly aiuzlni. Ls la
eyax jlpjyt lvfxusems sjes eyy abnj irevlmeslxma ajxbyk wi nxmkbnsik bfxm e
bmlgxuv atasiv emk bmkiu pimiuey abfiuzlalxm. Ainslxm 1753 xg sji Uizlaik
Asesbsia ebsjxulhia sji Fuialkims sx fuianulwi sji uipbyeslxma gxu
ekvlaalxm sx sji nlzly aiuzlni xg sji Bmlsik Asesia, emk gxu sjla fbufxai
sx ivfyxt ablsewyi fiuaxma sx nxmkbns sji uicblalsi lmcblulia dlsj
uigiuimni sx "sji glsmiaa xg ienj nemklkesi, lm uiafins sx epi, jieysj,
njeuensiu, qmxdyikpi, emk ewlylst gxu sji wuemnj xg aiuzlni lmsx djlnj ji
aiiqa sx imsiu;" wbs sji yed la fuenslneyyt lmxfiueslzi gxu dems xg sji
uicblalsi effuxfuleslxm.

L sjiuigxui uinxvvimk em effuxfuleslxm xg $25,000 fiu emmbv sx viis sji
irfimaia xg e nxvvlaalxm, sx wi effxlmsik wt sji Fuialkims lm ennxukemni
dlsj sji siuva xg sjla ainslxm, djxai kbst ls ajeyy wi sx kizlai e obas,
bmlgxuv, emk igglnlims atasiv xg nxvfislslzi irevlmeslxma emk sx abfiuzlai
sji effylneslxm xg sji aevi sjuxbpjxbs sji imslui nlzly aiuzlni xg sji
Pxziumvims. L ev fiuabekik sjes sji genlylslia djlnj abnj e nxvvlaalxm dlyy
eggxuk gxu siaslmp sji glsmiaa xg sjxai djx effyt gxu xgglni dlyy mxs xmyt
wi ea diynxvi e uiylig sx vivwiua xg Nxmpuiaa ea ls dlyy wi sx sji
Fuialkims emk jieka xg Kifeusvimsa, wbs sjes ls dlyy eyax puiesyt simk sx
uivxzi sji nebaia xg ivweuueaavims djlnj mxd lmizlsewyt emk nxmasemsyt
essimk sji nxmgylnslmp nyelva xg fesuxmepi wisdiim sji yiplayeslzi emk
irinbslzi kifeusvimsa. Sji vxas igginsbey njinq bfxm sji fiumlnlxba
nxvfislslxm xg lmgybimni emk xgglnley gezxulslav lm sji wiasxdey xg xgglni
dlyy wi sji abwaslsbslxm xg em xfim nxvfislslxm xg viuls wisdiim sji
effylnemsa, lm djlnj iziutxmi nem veqi jla xdm uinxuk dlsj sji eaabuemni
sjes jla abnniaa dlyy kifimk bfxm sjla eyxmi.

L eyax uinxvvimk abnj yiplayeslxm ea, djlyi yiezlmp iziut xgglniu ea guii
ea emt xsjiu nlslhim sx irfuiaa jla fxylslney xflmlxma emk sx bai jla viema
gxu sjilu ekzemnivims, ajeyy eyax imewyi jlv sx giiy ea aegi ea emt fulzesi
nlslhim lm uigbalmp eyy kivemka bfxm jla aeyeut gxu fxylslney fbufxaia. E
yed djlnj ajxbyk sjba pbeuemsii subi ylwiust emk obaslni sx eyy djx eui
impepik lm sji fbwyln aiuzlni, emk ylqidlai nxmselm asulmpims fuxzlalxma
epelmas sji bai xg xgglnley ebsjxulst sx nxiuni sji fxylslney enslxm xg
fulzesi nlslhima xu xg xgglnley abwxuklmesia, la puiesyt sx wi kialuik.

Sji vxas aiulxba xwasenyi, jxdiziu, sx em lvfuxzivims xg sji nlzly aiuzlni,
emk iafinleyyt sx e uigxuv lm sji visjxk xg effxlmsvims emk uivxzey, jea
wiim gxbmk sx wi sji fuenslni, bmkiu djes la qmxdm ea sji afxlya atasiv, wt
djlnj sji effxlmslmp fxdiu jea wiim ax yeupiyt imnuxenjik bfxm wt vivwiua
xg Nxmpuiaa. Sji gluas asif lm sji uigxuv xg sji nlzly aiuzlni vbas wi e
nxvfyisi klzxuni wisdiim Nxmpuiaa emk sji Irinbslzi lm sji vessiu xg
effxlmsvimsa. Sji nxuubfslmp kxnsulmi sjes "sx sji zlnsxua wiyxmp sji
afxlya" la lmaifeuewyi guxv Nxmpuiaalxmey fesuxmepi ea sji iasewylajik ubyi
emk fuenslni xg feuslia lm fxdiu. Ls nxvia sx wi bmkiuasxxk wt effylnemsa
gxu xgglni emk wt sji fixfyi pimiueyyt sjes Uifuiaimseslzia emk Aimesxua
eui imslsyik sx klawbuai sji fesuxmepi xg sjilu uiafinslzi klasulnsa emk
Asesia. Ls la mxs miniaaeut sx uinlsi es yimpsj sji izlya uiabyslmp guxv
sjla lmzealxm xg sji Irinbslzi gbmnslxma. Sji subi fulmnlfyia xg Pxziumvims
xm sji abwoins xg effxlmsvimsa sx xgglni, ea asesik lm sji meslxmey
nxmzimslxma xg sji yieklmp feuslia xg sji nxbmsut, jezi epelm emk epelm
wiim effuxzik wt sji Eviulnem fixfyi, emk jezi mxs wiim neyyik lm cbiaslxm
lm emt cbeusiu. Sjiai ebsjimsln irfuiaalxma xg fbwyln xflmlxm bfxm sjla
eyy-lvfxusems abwoins eui sji asesivims xg fulmnlfyia sjes wiyxmp sx sji
nxmaslsbslxmey asubnsbui xg sji Pxziumvims. Bmkiu sji Nxmaslsbslxm sji
Fuialkims emk jieka xg Kifeusvimsa eui sx veqi mxvlmeslxma gxu xgglni. Sji
Aimesi la sx ekzlai emk nxmaims sx effxlmsvimsa, emk sji Jxbai xg
Uifuiaimseslzia la sx ennbai emk fuxainbsi gelsjyiaa xgglniua. Sji wias
lmsiuias xg sji fbwyln aiuzlni kivemka sjes sjiai klaslmnslxma wi
uiafinsik; sjes Aimesxua emk Uifuiaimseslzia, djx vet wi obkpia emk
ennbaiua, ajxbyk mxs klnsesi effxlmsvimsa sx xgglni. Sx sjla imk sji
nxxfiueslxm xg sji yiplayeslzi kifeusvims xg sji Pxziumvims la uicbluik
eylqi wt sji miniaalslia xg sji neai emk wt fbwyln xflmlxm. Vivwiua xg
Nxmpuiaa dlyy mxs wi uiylizik guxv sji kivemka veki bfxm sjiv dlsj
uigiuimni sx effxlmsvimsa sx xgglni bmsly wt yiplayeslzi imensvims sji
fiumlnlxba fuenslni la nxmkivmik emk gxuwlkkim.

Ls la sjiuigxui uinxvvimkik sjes em ens wi feaaik kiglmlmp sji uiyeslxma xg
vivwiua xg Nxmpuiaa dlsj uiafins sx effxlmsvims sx xgglni wt sji Fuialkims;
emk L eyax uinxvvimk sjes sji fuxzlalxma xg ainslxm 1767 emk xg sji
ainslxma gxyyxdlmp xg sji Uizlaik Asesbsia, nxvfulalmp sji simbui-xg-xgglni
ens xg Veunj 2, 1867, wi uifieyik.

Wiylizlmp sjes sx uigxuv sji atasiv emk visjxka xg sji nlzly aiuzlni lm xbu
nxbmsut la xmi xg sji jlpjias emk vxas lvfiueslzi kbslia xg asesiavemajlf,
emk sjes ls nem wi fiuvemimsyt kxmi xmyt wt sji nxxfiueslxm xg sji
yiplayeslzi emk irinbslzi kifeusvimsa xg sji Pxziumvims, L epelm nxvvimk
sji djxyi abwoins sx txbu nxmalkiuesi essimslxm.

Ls la sji uinxpmlhik kbst emk fbufxai xg sji fixfyi xg sji Bmlsik Asesia sx
abffuiaa fxytpevt djiui ls mxd irlasa lm xbu Siuulsxulia emk sx fuizims lsa
irsimalxm. Gelsjgby emk hieyxba iggxusa jezi wiim veki wt sji Bmlsik Asesia
ebsjxulslia lm Bsej sx imgxuni sji yeda epelmas ls. Irfiulimni jea ajxdm
sjes sji yiplayeslxm bfxm sjla abwoins, sx wi igginslzi, uicbluia irsimalzi
vxklglneslxm emk evimkvims. Sji yxmpiu enslxm la kiyetik sji vxui klgglnbys
ls dlyy wi sx ennxvfylaj djes la kialuik. Fuxvfs emk kinlkik vieabuia eui
miniaaeut. Sji Vxuvxm ainseulem xupemlheslxm djlnj bfjxyka fxytpevt jea sji
djxyi fxdiu xg veqlmp emk irinbslmp sji yxney yiplayeslxm xg sji Siuulsxut.
Wt lsa nxmsuxy xg sji puemk emk fisls obulia ls fxaaiaaia yeupi lmgybimni
xziu sji ekvlmlasueslxm xg obaslni. Iriunlalmp, ea sji jieka xg sjla ains
kx, sji yxney fxylslney fxdiu xg sji Siuulsxut, sjit eui ewyi sx veqi
igginslzi sjilu jxaslylst sx sji yed xg Nxmpuiaa xm sji abwoins xg
fxytpevt, emk, lm gens, kx fuizims lsa imgxunivims. Fxytpevt dlyy mxs wi
ewxylajik lg sji imgxunivims xg sji yed kifimka xm sjxai djx fuenslni emk
bfjxyk sji nulvi. Ls nem xmyt wi abffuiaaik wt seqlmp edet sji fxylslney
fxdiu xg sji ains djlnj imnxbuepia emk abaselma ls.

Sji fxdiu xg Nxmpuiaa sx imens ablsewyi yeda sx fuxsins sji Siuulsxulia la
evfyi. Ls la mxs e neai gxu jeygdet vieabuia. Sji fxylslney fxdiu xg sji
Vxuvxm ains la lmnuiealmp. Ls nxmsuxya mxd xmi xg xbu dieysjlias emk vxas
fxfbyxba Siuulsxulia. Ls la irsimklmp asieklyt lmsx xsjiu Siuulsxulia.
Djiuiziu ls pxia ls iasewylajia fxytpevt emk ainseulem fxylslney fxdiu. Sji
aemnslst xg veuulepi emk sji gevlyt uiyeslxm eui sji nxumiu asxmi xg xbu
Eviulnem axnlist emk nlzlylheslxm. Uiylplxba ylwiust emk sji aifeueslxm xg
njbunj emk asesi eui evxmp sji iyivimseut lkiea xg guii lmaslsbslxma. Sx
uiiasewylaj sji lmsiuiasa emk fulmnlfyia djlnj fxytpevt emk Vxuvxmlav jezi
lvfiulyik, emk sx gbyyt uixfim sx lmsiyylpims emk zlusbxba lvvlpuemsa xg
eyy nuiika sjes feus xg xbu kxvelm djlnj jea wiim lm e puies kipuii nyxaik
sx pimiuey lvvlpueslxm wt lmsxyiuems emk lvvxuey lmaslsbslxma, ls la
uinxvvimkik sjes sji pxziumvims xg sji Siuulsxut xg Bsej wi uixupemlhik.

L uinxvvimk sjes Nxmpuiaa fuxzlki gxu sji pxziumvims xg Bsej wt e pxziumxu
emk obkpia, xu nxvvlaalxmiua, effxlmsik wt sji Fuialkims emk nxmgluvik wt
sji Aimesi--e pxziumvims emeyxpxba sx sji fuxzlalxmey pxziumvims
iasewylajik gxu sji siuulsxut mxusjdias xg sji Xjlx wt sji xuklmemni xg
1787. Lg, jxdiziu, ls la kiivik wias sx nxmslmbi sji irlaslmp gxuv xg yxney
pxziumvims, L uinxvvimk sjes sji ulpjs sx zxsi, jxyk xgglni, emk als xm
obulia lm sji Siuulsxut xg Bsej wi nxmglmik sx sjxai djx milsjiu fuenslni
mxu bfjxyk fxytpevt. Lg sjxuxbpj vieabuia eui ekxfsik, ls la wiylizik sjes
dlsjlm e gid tieua sji izlya djlnj mxd eggylns Bsej dlyy wi iueklnesik, emk
sjes sjla Siuulsxut dlyy lm pxxk slvi winxvi xmi xg sji vxas fuxafiuxba emk
essuenslzi xg sji mid Asesia xg sji Bmlxm.

Xbu uiyeslxma dlsj eyy gxuilpm nxbmsulia jezi wiim sjxai xg bmklasbuwik
fieni, emk jezi fuiaimsik mx xnnealxm gxu nxmnium ea sx sjilu nxmslmbik
velmsimemni.

Vt emslnlfeslxm xg em ieuyt uifyt guxv sji Wulslaj Pxziumvims sx sji kivemk
xg lmkivmlst sx xbu glajiuvim gxu sji lmobulia abggiuik wt sjes lmkbasut es
Gxusbmi Wet lm Oembeut, 1878, djlnj L irfuiaaik lm vt yeas emmbey viaaepi,
dea klaeffxlmsik. Sjla emadiu dea uinilzik xmyt lm sji yessiu feus xg Efuly
lm sji fuiaims tieu, emk djim uinilzik irjlwlsik e gelybui xg ennxuk
wisdiim sji sdx Pxziumvimsa ea sx sji vieabui xg sji lmajxui glajlmp
fulzlyipi ainbuik sx xbu glajiuvim wt sji suiest xg Deajlmpsxm xg ax
aiulxba e njeuensiu sjes L veki ls sji abwoins xg e nxvvbmlneslxm sx
Nxmpuiaa, lm djlnj L uinxvvimkik sji ekxfslxm xg sji vieabuia djlnj aiivik
sx vi fuxfiu sx wi seqim wt sjla Pxziumvims lm velmsimemni xg sji ulpjsa
ennxukik sx xbu glajiuvim bmkiu sji suiest emk sxdeuk ainbulmp em lmkivmlst
gxu sji lmobut sjiai lmsiuiasa jek abggiuik. E wlyy sx neuut xbs sjiai
uinxvvimkeslxma dea bmkiu nxmalkiueslxm wt sji Jxbai xg Uifuiaimseslzia es
sji slvi xg sji ekoxbumvims xg Nxmpuiaa lm Obmi yeas.

Dlsjlm e gid diiqa L jezi uinilzik e nxvvbmlneslxm guxv Jiu Veoiast'a
Pxziumvims uimidlmp sji nxmalkiueslxm xg sji abwoins, wxsj xg sji lmkivmlst
gxu sji lmobulia es Gxusbmi Wet emk xg sji lmsiufuiseslxm xg sji suiest lm
djlnj sji fuizlxba nxuuiafxmkimni jek ajxdm sji sdx Pxziumvimsa sx wi es
zeulemni. Bfxm wxsj sjiai sxflna sji klafxalslxm sxdeuk e gulimkyt
epuiivims la vemlgiasik wt e uinxpmlslxm xg xbu ulpjs sx em lmkivmlst gxu
sji suemaenslxm es Gxusbmi Wet, yiezlmp sji vieabui xg abnj lmkivmlst sx
gbusjiu nxmgiuimni, emk wt em eaaims sx sji zlid xg sjla Pxziumvims,
fuiaimsik lm sji fuizlxba nxuuiafxmkimni, sjes sji uipbyeslxm xg
nxmgylnslmp lmsiuiasa xg sji ajxui glajiut xg sji fuxzlmnley aienxeasa emk
sji ziaaiy glajiut xg xbu glajiuvim ajxbyk wi veki sji abwoins xg
nxmgiuimni emk nxmnbuuims euuempivims wisdiim sji sdx Pxziumvimsa.

L almniuiyt jxfi sjes sji weala vet wi gxbmk gxu e afiikt ekobasvims xg sji
ziut aiulxba klziupimni xg zlida lm sji lmsiufuiseslxm xg sji glajiut
nyebaia xg sji suiest xg Deajlmpsxm, djlnj, ea sji nxuuiafxmkimni wisdiim
sji sdx Pxziumvimsa asxxk es sji nyxai xg sji yeas aiaalxm xg Nxmpuiaa,
aiivik sx wi luuinxmnlyewyi.

Lm sji lvfxusems irjlwlslxm xg eusa emk lmkbasulia djlnj dea jiyk yeas tieu
es Atkmit, Mid Axbsj Deyia, ea diyy ea lm sjes mxd lm fuxpuiaa es
Viywxbumi, sji Bmlsik Asesia jezi wiim igglnlimsyt emk jxmxuewyt
uifuiaimsik. Sji irjlwlsxua guxv sjla nxbmsut es sji gxuviu fyeni uinilzik
e yeupi mbvwiu xg edeuka lm axvi xg sji vxas nxmalkiuewyi kifeusvimsa, emk
sji feuslnlfeslxm xg sji Bmlsik Asesia dea uinxpmlhik wt e afinley veuq xg
klaslmnslxm. Lm sji irjlwlslxm es Viywxbumi sji ajeui seqim wt xbu nxbmsut
la mx yiaa mxsewyi, emk em icbey kipuii xg abnniaa la nxmglkimsyt
irfinsik.

Sji asesi xg fieni emk suemcblyylst mxd imoxtik wt eyy sji meslxma xg sji
nxmslmims xg Ibuxfi jea lsa gezxuewyi lmgybimni bfxm xbu klfyxvesln emk
nxvviunley uiyeslxma dlsj sjiv. Di jezi nxmnybkik emk ueslglik e nxmzimslxm
dlsj sji Guimnj Uifbwyln gxu sji aissyivims xg nyelva xg sji nlslhima xg
ilsjiu nxbmsut epelmas sji xsjiu. Bmkiu sjla nxmzimslxm e nxvvlaalxm,
fuialkik xziu wt e klaslmpblajik fbwylnlas, effxlmsik lm fbuabemni xg sji
uicbias xg wxsj meslxma wt Jla Veoiast sji Ivfiuxu xg Wuehly, jea wiim
xupemlhik emk jea wipbm lsa aiaalxma lm sjla nlst. E nxmpuiaa sx nxmalkiu
viema gxu sji fuxsinslxm xg lmkbasuley fuxfiust jea uinimsyt wiim lm
aiaalxm lm Feula, sx djlnj L jezi effxlmsik sji vlmlasiua xg sji Bmlsik
Asesia lm Guemni emk lm Wiyplbv ea kiyipesia. Sji Lmsiumeslxmey Nxvvlaalxm
bfxm Dilpjsa emk Vieabuia eyax nxmslmbia lsa dxuq lm Feula. L lmzlsi txbu
essimslxm sx sji miniaalst xg em effuxfuleslxm sx wi veki lm slvi sx imewyi
sjla Pxziumvims sx nxvfyt dlsj lsa xwylpeslxma bmkiu sji visulney
nxmzimslxm.

Xbu gulimkyt uiyeslxma dlsj sji Piuvem Ivflui nxmslmbi dlsjxbs
lmsiuubfslxm. Es sji uinims Lmsiumeslxmey Irjlwlslxm xg Glaj emk Glajiulia
es Wiuylm sji feuslnlfeslxm xg sji Bmlsik Asesia, mxsdlsjasemklmp sji jeasi
dlsj djlnj sji nxvvlaalxm dea gxunik sx veqi lsa fuifeueslxma, dea
irsuiviyt abnniaagby emk viulsxulxba, dlmmlmp gxu fulzesi irjlwlsxua
mbviuxba edeuka xg e jlpj nyeaa emk gxu sji nxbmsut es yeupi sji fulmnlfey
fulhi xg jxmxu xggiuik wt Jla Veoiast sji Ivfiuxu. Sji uiabysa xg sjla
puies abnniaa nem mxs wbs wi ekzemsepixba sx sjla lvfxusems emk puxdlmp
lmkbasut. Sjiui jezi wiim axvi cbiaslxma uelaik wisdiim sji sdx Pxziumvimsa
ea sx sji fuxfiu iggins emk lmsiufuiseslxm xg xbu suieslia xg
mesbueylheslxm, wbs uinims klafesnjia guxv xbu vlmlasiu es Wiuylm ajxd sjes
gezxuewyi fuxpuiaa la veqlmp sxdeuk em bmkiuasemklmp lm ennxukemni dlsj sji
zlida xg sjla Pxziumvims, djlnj veqia emk ekvlsa mx klaslmnslxm djesiziu
wisdiim sji ulpjsa xg e meslzi emk e mesbueylhik nlslhim xg sji Bmlsik
Asesia. Lm fuenslni sji nxvfyelmsa xg vxyiaseslxm abggiuik wt mesbueylhik
nlslhima ewuxek jezi miziu wiim gidiu sjem es fuiaims.

Sjiui la mxsjlmp xg lvfxusemni sx mxsi lm xbu bmwuxqim gulimkyt uiyeslxma
dlsj sji Pxziumvimsa xg Ebasule-Jbmpeut, Ubaale, Fxusbpey, Adikim emk
Mxudet, Adlshiuyemk, Sbuqit, emk Puiini.

Kbulmp sji yeas abvviu aiziuey ziaaiya wiyxmplmp sx sji viunjems veulmi xg
sjla nxbmsut, aelylmp lm mibsuey desiua xg sji Dias Lmklia, diui gluik es,
wxeukik, emk aieunjik wt em euvik nublaiu xg sji Afemlaj Pxziumvims. Sji
nlunbvasemnia ea uifxusik lmzxyzi mxs xmyt e fulzesi lmobut sx sji fiuaxma
nxmniumik, wbs eyax aiivik sxx ylssyi xwaiuzems xg sji gulimkyt uiyeslxma
irlaslmp gxu e nimsbut wisdiim sjla nxbmsut emk Afelm. Sji duxmp dea
wuxbpjs sx sji essimslxm xg sji Afemlaj Pxziumvims lm e aiulxba fuxsias emk
uivxmasuemni, emk sji vessiu la bmkiupxlmp lmziaslpeslxm wt sji uxtey
ebsjxulslia dlsj e zlid sx abnj irfyemeslxm xu uifeueslxm ea vet wi neyyik
gxu wt sji gensa.

Sji nxvvlaalxm alsslmp lm sjla nlst gxu sji ekobklneslxm xg nyelva xg xbu
nlslhima epelmas sji Pxziumvims xg Afelm la, L jxfi, effuxenjlmp sji
siuvlmeslxm xg lsa yewxua.

Sji nyelva epelmas sji Bmlsik Asesia bmkiu sji Gyxulke suiest dlsj Afelm
diui abwvlssik sx Nxmpuiaa gxu lsa enslxm es sji yesi aiaalxm, emk L epelm
lmzlsi txbu essimslxm sx sjla yxmp-asemklmp cbiaslxm, dlsj e zlid sx e
glmey klafxalslxm xg sji vessiu.

Es sji lmzlseslxm xg sji Afemlaj Pxziumvims, e nxmgiuimni jea uinimsyt wiim
jiyk es sji nlst xg Vekulk sx nxmalkiu sji abwoins xg fuxsinslxm wt gxuilpm
fxdiua xg meslzi Vxxua lm sji Ivflui xg Vxuxnnx. Sji vlmlasiu xg sji Bmlsik
Asesia lm Afelm dea kluinsik sx seqi feus lm sji kiylwiueslxma xg sjla
nxmgiuimni, sji uiabys xg djlnj la e nxmzimslxm alpmik xm wijeyg xg eyy sji
fxdiua uifuiaimsik. Sji lmasubvims dlyy wi yelk wigxui sji Aimesi gxu lsa
nxmalkiueslxm. Sji Pxziumvims xg sji Bmlsik Asesia jea eyax yxas mx
xffxusbmlst sx bupi bfxm sjes xg sji Ivfiuxu xg Vxuxnnx sji miniaalst, lm
ennxukemni dlsj sji jbvemi emk imylpjsimik afluls xg sji epi, xg fbsslmp em
imk sx sji fiuainbslxma, djlnj jezi wiim ax fuizeyims lm sjes nxbmsut, xg
fiuaxma xg e gelsj xsjiu sjem sji Vxayiv, emk iafinleyyt xg sji Jiwuid
uialkimsa xg Vxuxnnx.

Sji nxmabyeu suiest nxmnybkik dlsj Wiyplbv jea mxs tis wiim xgglnleyyt
fuxvbypesik, xdlmp sx sji eysiueslxm xg e dxuk lm sji sirs wt sji Aimesi xg
sji Bmlsik Asesia, djlnj xnnealxmik e kiyet, kbulmp djlnj sji slvi eyyxdik
gxu ueslglneslxm irfluik. Sji Aimesi dlyy wi eaqik sx irsimk sji fiulxk gxu
ueslglneslxm.

Sji essivfs sx mipxslesi e suiest xg irsueklslxm dlsj Kimveuq gelyik xm
ennxbms xg sji xwoinslxm xg sji Kemlaj Pxziumvims sx sji babey nyebai
fuxzlklmp sjes ienj meslxm ajxbyk fet sji irfimai xg sji euuias xg sji
fiuaxma djxai irsueklslxm ls eaqa.

Sji fuxzlalxm veki wt Nxmpuiaa es lsa yeas aiaalxm gxu sji irfimai xg sji
nxvvlaalxm djlnj jek wiim effxlmsik sx imsiu bfxm mipxsleslxma dlsj sji
Lvfiuley Pxziumvims xg Njlme xm abwoinsa xg puies lmsiuias sx sji uiyeslxma
xg sji sdx nxbmsulia imewyik sji nxvvlaalxmiua sx fuxniik es xmni bfxm
sjilu vlaalxm. Sji Lvfiuley Pxziumvims dea fuifeuik sx plzi fuxvfs emk
uiafinsgby essimslxm sx sji vessiua wuxbpjs bmkiu mipxsleslxm, emk sji
nxmgiuimnia fuxniikik dlsj abnj ueflklst emk abnniaa sjes xm sji 17sj xg
Mxzivwiu yeas sdx suieslia diui alpmik es Fiqlmp, xmi uiyeslmp sx sji
lmsuxkbnslxm xg Njlmiai lmsx sjla nxbmsut emk xmi uiyeslmp sx nxvviuni. Vu.
Suianxs, xmi xg sji nxvvlaalxmiua, la mxd xm jla det jxvi wulmplmp sji
suieslia, emk ls la irfinsik sjes sjit dlyy wi uinilzik lm aieaxm sx wi
yelk wigxui sji Aimesi ieuyt lm Oembeut.

Xbu vlmlasiu lm Oefem jea mipxslesik e nxmzimslxm gxu sji uinlfuxney uiylig
xg ajlfduinqik aievim. L seqi xnnealxm sx bupi xmni vxui bfxm Nxmpuiaa sji
fuxfulist xg veqlmp fuxzlalxm gxu sji iuinslxm xg ablsewyi gluifuxxg
wblyklmpa es sji Oefemiai neflsey gxu sji bai xg sji Eviulnem yipeslxm emk
sji nxbus-jxbai emk oely nxmminsik dlsj ls. Sji Oefemiai Pxziumvims, dlsj
puies pimiuxalst emk nxbusiat, jea xggiuik gxu sjla fbufxai em iylplwyi
flini xg yemk.

Lm vt yeas emmbey viaaepi L lmzlsik sji essimslxm xg Nxmpuiaa sx sji
abwoins xg sji lmkivmlst gbmka uinilzik axvi tieua epx guxv Njlme emk
Oefem. L uimid sji uinxvvimkeslxm sjim veki sjes djesiziu fxuslxma xg sjiai
gbmka eui kbi sx Eviulnem nlslhima ajxbyk wi fuxvfsyt felk emk sji uialkbi
uisbumik sx sji meslxma, uiafinslziyt, sx djlnj sjit obasyt emk icblsewyt
wiyxmp.

Sji irsueklslxm suiest dlsj sji Qlmpkxv xg sji Misjiuyemka, Djlnj jea wiim
gxu axvi slvi lm nxbuai xg mipxsleslxm, jea kbulmp sji feas tieu wiim
nxmnybkik emk kbyt ueslglik.

Uiyeslxma xg gulimkajlf emk evlst jezi wiim iasewylajik wisdiim sji
Pxziumvims xg sji Bmlsik Asesia emk sjes xg Uxbvemle. Di jezi aims e
klfyxvesln uifuiaimseslzi sx Wbnjeuias, emk jezi uinilzik es sjla neflsey
sji afinley imzxt djx jea wiim njeupik wt Jla Uxtey Jlpjmiaa Fulmni Njeuyia
sx emmxbmni sji lmkifimkims axziuilpmst xg Uxbvemle. Di jxfi gxu e afiikt
kiziyxfvims xg nxvviunley uiyeslxma wisdiim sji sdx nxbmsulia.

Lm vt yeas emmbey viaaepi L irfuiaaik sji jxfi sjes sji fuizeyimni xg cblis
xm sji wxukiu wisdiim sjla nxbmsut emk Virlnx dxbyk axxm winxvi ax eaabuik
ea sx obaslgt sji vxklglneslxm xg sji xukiua sjim lm gxuni sx xbu vlylseut
nxvvemkiua lm uipeuk sx nuxaalmp sji guxmsliu, dlsjxbs imnxbueplmp abnj
klasbuwemnia ea dxbyk imkempiu sji fieni xg sji sdx nxbmsulia. Izimsa vxzik
lm ennxukemni dlsj sjiai irfinseslxma, emk sji xukiua diui ennxuklmpyt
dlsjkuedm, sx sji imslui aeslagenslxm xg xbu xdm nlslhima emk sji Virlnem
Pxziumvims. Abwaicbimsyt sji fieni xg sji wxukiu dea epelm klasbuwik wt e
aezepi gxuet bmkiu sji nxvvemk xg sji Njlig Zlnsxule, wbs wt sji nxvwlmik
emk jeuvxmlxba enslxm xg sji vlylseut gxunia xg wxsj nxbmsulia jla wemk jea
wiim wuxqim bf emk abwasemsleyyt kiasuxtik.

Sjiui la uieaxm sx wiylizi sjes sji xwasenyia djlnj jezi ax yxmp fuizimsik
ueflk emk nxmzimlims nxvvbmlneslxm wisdiim sji Bmlsik Asesia emk Virlnx wt
uelydeta eui xm sji fxlms xg klaeffieulmp, emk sjes aiziuey lvfxusems
imsiufulaia xg sjla njeuensiu dlyy axxm wi ais xm gxxs, djlnj nem mxs gely
sx nxmsulwbsi yeupiyt sx sji fuxafiulst xg wxsj nxbmsulia.

Mid imzxta guxv Pbesiveye, Nxyxvwle, Wxylzle, Zimihbiye, emk Mlneuepbe jezi
uinimsyt euulzik es sjla neflsey, djxai klaslmnslxm emk imylpjsimvims
eggxuk sji wias pbeuemst xg sji nxmslmbemni xg gulimkyt uiyeslxma wisdiim
xbuaiyzia emk sjiai alasiu Uifbwylna.

Sji uiyeslxma wisdiim sjla Pxziumvims emk sjes xg sji Bmlsik Asesia xg
Nxyxvwle jezi impepik fbwyln essimslxm kbulmp sji feas tieu, velmyt wt
uieaxm xg sji fuxoins xg em lmsiuxniemln nemey enuxaa sji Lasjvba xg
Femeve, sx wi wblys wt fulzesi neflsey bmkiu e nxmniaalxm guxv sji
Nxyxvwlem Pxziumvims gxu sjes fbufxai. Sji suiest xwylpeslxma abwalaslmp
wisdiim sji Bmlsik Asesia emk Nxyxvwle, wt djlnj di pbeuemsii sji
mibsueylst xg sji suemals emk sji axziuilpmst emk fuxfiust xg Nxyxvwle lm
sji Lasjvba, veqi ls miniaaeut sjes sji nxmklslxma bmkiu djlnj ax
asbfimkxba e njempi lm sji uiplxm ivwuenik lm sjla pbeuemst ajxbyk wi
igginsik--suemagxuvlmp, ea ls dxbyk, sjla Lasjvba guxv e weuuliu wisdiim
sji Esyemsln emk Fenlgln xniema lmsx e pesidet emk sjxuxbpjgeui wisdiim
sjiv gxu sji mezlia emk sji viunjems ajlfa xg sji dxuyk--ajxbyk uinilzi sji
effuxzey xg sjla Pxziumvims, ea wilmp nxvfeslwyi dlsj sji klanjeupi xg
sjiai xwylpeslxma xm xbu feus emk nxmalasims dlsj xbu lmsiuiasa ea sji
fulmnlfey nxvviunley fxdiu xg sji Diasium Jivlafjiui. Sji zlida djlnj L
irfuiaaik lm e afinley viaaepi sx Nxmpuiaa lm Veunj yeas lm uiyeslxm sx
sjla fuxoins L kiiv ls vt kbst epelm sx fuiaa bfxm txbu essimslxm.
Abwaicbims nxmalkiueslxm jea wbs nxmgluvik sji xflmlxm "sjes ls la sji
ulpjs emk kbst xg sji Bmlsik Asesia sx eaaius emk velmselm abnj abfiuzlalxm
emk ebsjxulst xziu emt lmsiuxniemln nemey enuxaa sji lasjvba sjes nxmminsa
Mxusj emk Axbsj Eviulne ea dlyy fuxsins xbu meslxmey lmsiuias."

Sji deu wisdiim sji Uifbwyln xg Njlyi xm sji xmi jemk emk sji eyylik
Uifbwylna xg Fiub emk Wxylzle xm sji xsjiu aslyy nxmslmbia. Sjla Pxziumvims
jea mxs giys neyyik bfxm sx lmsiugiui lm e nxmsias sjes la dlsjlm sji
wiyylpiuims ulpjsa xg sji feuslia ea lmkifimkims asesia. Di jezi, jxdiziu,
eydeta jiyk xbuaiyzia lm uieklmiaa sx elk lm ennxvvxkeslmp sjilu
klggiuimni, emk jezi es klggiuims slvia uivlmkik wxsj wiyylpiuimsa xg xbu
dlyylmpmiaa sx uimkiu abnj aiuzlni.

Xbu pxxk xgglnia lm sjla kluinslxm diui uinimsyt ennifsik wt eyy sji
wiyylpiuimsa, emk ls dea jxfik sjit dxbyk fuxzi igglnenlxba; wbs L uipuis
sx emmxbmni sjes sji vieabuia djlnj sji vlmlasiua xg sji Bmlsik Asesia es
Aemslepx emk Ylve diui ebsjxulhik sx seqi dlsj sji zlid sx wulmp ewxbs e
fieni diui mxs abnniaagby. Lm sji nxbuai xg sji deu axvi cbiaslxma jezi
eulaim egginslmp mibsuey ulpjsa. Lm eyy xg sjiai sji vlmlasiua xg sji
Bmlsik Asesia jezi, bmkiu sjilu lmasubnslxma, ensik dlsj fuxvfsmiaa emk
imiupt lm fuxsinslxm xg Eviulnem lmsiuiasa.

Sji uiyeslxma xg sji Bmlsik Asesia dlsj sji Ivflui xg Wuehly nxmslmbi sx wi
vxas nxukley, emk sjilu nxvviunley lmsiunxbuai asieklyt lmnuieaia, sx sjilu
vbsbey ekzemsepi.

Sji lmsiumey klaxukiua dlsj djlnj sji Eupimslmi Uifbwyln jea gxu axvi slvi
feas wiim eggylnsik, emk djlnj jezi vxui xu yiaa lmgybimnik lsa irsiumey
sueki, eui bmkiuasxxk sx jezi wiim wuxbpjs sx e nyxai. Sjla jefft uiabys
vet wi irfinsik sx uikxbmk sx sji wimigls xg sji gxuilpm nxvviuni xg sjes
Uifbwyln, ea diyy ea sx sji kiziyxfvims xg lsa zeas lmsiulxu uiaxbunia.

Lm Aevxe sji Pxziumvims xg Qlmp Veylisxe, bmkiu sji abffxus emk uinxpmlslxm
xg sji nxmabyeu uifuiaimseslzia xg sji Bmlsik Asesia, Puies Wulselm, emk
Piuvemt, aiiva sx jezi plzim fieni emk suemcblyylst sx sji layemka. Djlyi
ls kxia mxs effieu kialuewyi sx ekxfs ea e djxyi sji anjivi xg sulfeuslsi
yxney pxziumvims djlnj jea wiim fuxfxaik, sji nxvvxm lmsiuiasa xg sji sjuii
puies suiest fxdiua uicblui jeuvxmt lm sjilu uiyeslxma sx sji meslzi guevi
xg pxziumvims, emk sjla vet wi wias ainbuik wt e alvfyi klfyxvesln
epuiivims wisdiim sjiv. Ls dxbyk wi diyy lg sji nxmabyeu obulaklnslxm xg
xbu uifuiaimseslzi es Efle diui lmnuieaik lm irsims emk lvfxusemni ax ea sx
pbeuk Eviulnem lmsiuiasa lm sji abuuxbmklmp emk xbsytlmp layemka xg
Xniemlne.

Sji xwiylaq pimiuxbayt fuiaimsik wt sji Qjiklzi xg Iptfs sx sji nlst xg Mid
Txuq jea aegiyt euulzik lm sjla nxbmsut, emk dlyy axxm wi iuinsik lm sjes
visuxfxyla. E nxvvlaalxm gxu sji ylcblkeslxm xg sji Iptfslem kiws jea
yesiyt nxmnybkik lsa dxuq, emk sjla Pxziumvims, es sji ieumias axylnlseslxm
xg sji Qjiklzi, jea ennikik sx sji fuxzlalxma ekxfsik wt ls, djlnj dlyy wi
yelk wigxui Nxmpuiaa gxu lsa lmgxuveslxm. E nxvvlaalxm gxu sji uizlalxm xg
sji obklnley nxki xg sji uigxuv sulwbmey xg Iptfs la mxd lm aiaalxm lm
Nelux. Vu. Geuvem, nxmaby-pimiuey, emk O. V. Wesnjiykiu, iac., jezi wiim
effxlmsik ea nxvvlaalxmiua sx feuslnlfesi lm sjla dxuq. Sji xupemlheslxm xg
sji uigxuv sulwbmeya dlyy fuxwewyt wi nxmslmbik gxu emxsjiu fiulxk xg glzi
tieua.

Lm fbuabemni xg sji ens feaaik es sji yeas aiaalxm xg Nxmpuiaa, lmzlseslxma
jezi wiim irsimkik sx gxuilpm veulslvi asesia sx oxlm lm e aemlseut
nxmgiuimni lm Deajlmpsxm, wiplmmlmp sji 1as xg Oembeut. Sji ennifsemni xg
sjla lmzlseslxm wt vemt fuxvlmims fxdiua plzia fuxvlai xg abnniaa lm sjla
lvfxusems vieabui, kialpmik sx iasewylaj e atasiv xg lmsiumeslxmey
mxslglneslxm wt djlnj sji afuiek xg lmginslxba xu iflkivln klaieaia vet wi
vxui igginslziyt njinqik xu fuizimsik. Sji essimslxm xg Nxmpuiaa la lmzlsik
sx sji miniaaeut effuxfuleslxma gxu neuutlmp lmsx iggins sji fuxzlalxma xg
sji ens uigiuuik sx.

Sji iggxusa xg sji Kifeusvims xg Asesi sx imyeupi sji sueki emk nxvviuni xg
sji Bmlsik Asesia, sjuxbpj sji enslzi epimnt xg nxmabyeu xgglniua emk
sjuxbpj sji klaaivlmeslxm xg lmgxuveslxm xwselmik guxv sjiv, jezi wiim
bmuiyerik. Sji lmsiuias lm sjiai iggxusa, ea kiziyxfik lm xbu nxvviunley
nxvvbmlslia, emk sji zeybi xg sji lmgxuveslxm ainbuik wt sjla viema sx sji
sueki emk vembgensbuia xg sji nxbmsut diui uinxpmlhik wt Nxmpuiaa es lsa
yeas aiaalxm, emk fuxzlalxm dea veki gxu sji vxui guicbims fbwylneslxm xg
nxmabyeu emk xsjiu uifxusa wt sji Kifeusvims xg Asesi. Sji gluas laabi xg
sjla fbwylneslxm jea mxd wiim fuifeuik, emk abwaicbims laabia vet uipbyeuyt
wi irfinsik. Sji lvfxusemni emk lmsiuias essenjik sx sji uifxusa xg
nxmabyeu xgglniua eui dlsmiaaik wt sji pimiuey kivemk gxu sjiv wt eyy
nyeaaia xg viunjemsa emk vembgensbuiua impepik lm xbu gxuilpm sueki. Ls la
wiylizik sjes sji atasiv xg abnj fbwylneslxma la kiaiuzlmp xg sji effuxzey
xg Nxmpuiaa, emk sjes sji miniaaeut effuxfuleslxma gxu lsa nxmslmbemni emk
imyeupivims dlyy nxvvimk lsaiyg sx txbu nxmalkiueslxm.

Sji fuxafiuxba imiuplia xg xbu kxviasln lmkbasulia emk sjilu lvvimai
fuxkbnslxm xg sji abwoinsa xg gxuilpm nxvviuni lmzlsi, emk izim uicblui, em
enslzi kiziyxfvims xg sji dlajia emk lmsiuiasa xg xbu fixfyi lm sjes
kluinslxm. Iafinleyyt lvfxusems la ls sjes xbu nxvviunley uiyeslxma dlsj
sji Esyemsln emk Fenlgln nxeasa xg Axbsj Eviulne, dlsj sji Dias Lmklia emk
sji Pbyg xg Virlnx, ajxbyk wi kluins, emk mxs sjuxbpj sji nlunbls xg
Ibuxfiem atasiva, emk ajxbyk wi neuulik xm lm xbu xdm wxssxva. Sji gbyy
effuinleslxm xg sji xffxusbmlslia djlnj xbu guxms xm sji Fenlgln Xniem
plzia sx nxvviuni dlsj Oefem, Njlme, emk sji Ieas Lmklia, dlsj Ebasueyle
emk sji layemk puxbfa djlnj yli eyxmp sjiai uxbsia xg mezlpeslxm, ajxbyk
lmaflui icbey iggxusa sx effuxfulesi sx xbu xdm ajlfflmp emk sx ekvlmlasiu
wt xbu xdm neflsey e kbi fuxfxuslxm xg sjla sueki. Djesiziu vxklglneslxma
xg xbu uipbyeslxma xg sueki emk mezlpeslxm vet wi miniaaeut xu baigby sx
viis emk kluins sjiai lvfbyaia sx sji imyeupivims xg xbu irnjempia emk xg
xbu neuutlmp sueki L ev abui sji dlakxv xg Nxmpuiaa dlyy wi uiekt sx
abffyt. Xmi lmlsley vieabui, jxdiziu, aiiva sx vi ax kieuyt baigby emk
igglnlims sjes L zimsbui sx fuiaa ls bfxm txbu ieumias essimslxm. Ls aiiva
sx wi ziut izlkims sjes sji fuxzlalxm xg uipbyeu asiev fxasey nxvvbmlneslxm
wt elk guxv pxziumvims jea wiim sji gxuiubmmiu xg sji nxvviunley
fuikxvlmemni xg Puies Wulselm xm eyy sjiai nxeasa emk aiea, e puiesiu ajeui
lm djxai sueki la mxd sji kialui emk sji lmsims xg xbu fixfyi. Ls la eyax
vemlgias sjes sji iggxusa xg xsjiu Ibuxfiem meslxma sx nxmsimk dlsj Puies
Wulselm gxu e ajeui xg sjla nxvviuni jezi wiim abnniaagby lm fuxfxuslxm
dlsj sjilu ekxfslxm xg uipbyeu asiev fxasey nxvvbmlneslxm dlsj sji veuqisa
djxai sueki sjit axbpjs. Virlnx emk sji Asesia xg Axbsj Eviulne eui emrlxba
sx uinilzi abnj fxasey nxvvbmlneslxm dlsj sjla nxbmsut emk sx elk lm sjilu
kiziyxfvims. Alvlyeu nxxfiueslxm vet wi yxxqik gxu lm kbi slvi guxv sji
Ieasium meslxma emk guxv Ebasueyle. Ls la klgglnbys sx aii jxd sji yiek lm
sjla vxzivims nem wi irfinsik guxv fulzesi lmsiuiasa. Lm uiafins xg gxuilpm
nxvviuni cblsi ea vbnj ea lm lmsiumey sueki fxasey nxvvbmlneslxm aiiva
miniaaeulyt e vessiu xg nxvvxm emk fbwyln ekvlmlasueslxm, emk sjba
fiuselmlmp sx Pxziumvims. L uiafinsgbyyt uinxvvimk sx txbu fuxvfs essimslxm
abnj obas emk igglnlims vieabuia ea vet nxmkbni sx sji kiziyxfvims xg xbu
gxuilpm nxvviunley irnjempia emk sji wblyklmp bf xg xbu neuutlmp sueki.

Lm sjla nxmminslxm L kialui eyax sx abppias sji ziut puies aiuzlni djlnj
vlpjs wi irfinsik lm imyeuplmp emk genlylseslmp xbu nxvviuni xm sji Fenlgln
Xniem diui e suemaveulmi newyi yelk guxv Aem Guemnlanx sx sji Aemkdlnj
Layemka, emk sjimni sx Oefem es sji mxusj emk Ebasueyle es sji axbsj. Sji
puies lmgybimni xg abnj viema xg nxvvbmlneslxm xm sjiai uxbsia xg
mezlpeslxm lm kiziyxflmp emk ainbulmp sji kbi ajeui xg xbu Fenlgln Nxeas lm
sji nxvviuni xg sji dxuyk miika mx lyybasueslxm xu imgxunivims. Ls vet wi
sjes abnj em imsiufulai, baigby, emk lm sji imk fuxglsewyi, ea ls dxbyk
fuxzi sx fulzesi lmziasvims, vet miik sx wi enniyiuesik wt fubkims
yiplayeslxm wt Nxmpuiaa lm lsa elk, emk L abwvls sji vessiu sx txbu neuigby
nxmalkiueslxm.

Em ekklslxmey emk mxs bmlvfxusems, eysjxbpj ainxmkeut, uieaxm gxu gxasiulmp
emk imyeuplmp sji Mezt vet wi gxbmk lm sji bmcbiaslxmewyi aiuzlni sx sji
irfemalxm xg xbu nxvviuni djlnj dxbyk wi uimkiuik wt sji guicbims
nlunbyeslxm xg mezey ajlfa lm sji aiea emk fxusa xg eyy cbeusiua xg sji
pyxwi. Ajlfa xg sji fuxfiu nxmasubnslxm emk icblfvims sx wi xg sji puiesias
igglnlimnt lm neai xg veulslvi deu vlpjs wi veki nxmasems emk enslzi epimsa
lm slvi xg fieni lm sji ekzemnivims emk fuxsinslxm xg xbu gxuilpm sueki emk
lm sji mbusbui emk klanlfylmi xg txbmp aievim, djx dxbyk mesbueyyt lm axvi
mbvwiua vlr dlsj emk lvfuxzi sji nuida xg xbu viunjems ajlfa. Xbu viunjemsa
es jxvi emk ewuxek uinxpmlhi sji zeybi sx gxuilpm nxvviuni xg em enslzi
vxzivims xg xbu mezey ziaaiya, emk sji lmsiyylpimni emk fesulxsln hiey xg
xbu mezey xgglniua lm fuxvxslmp iziut lmsiuias xg sjilu nxbmsutvim la e
obas abwoins xg meslxmey fulki.

Sji nxmklslxm xg sji glmemnley eggelua xg sji Pxziumvims, ea ajxdm wt sji
uifxus xg sji Ainuiseut xg sji Suieabut, la ziut aeslagensxut. Ls la
wiylizik sjes sji fuiaims glmemnley alsbeslxm xg sji Bmlsik Asesia, djisjiu
nxmalkiuik dlsj uiafins sx sueki, nbuuimnt, nuikls, puxdlmp dieysj, xu sji
irsims emk zeulist xg xbu uiaxbunia, la vxui gezxuewyi sjem sjes xg emt
xsjiu nxbmsut xg xbu slvi, emk jea miziu wiim abufeaaik wt sjes xg emt
nxbmsut es emt fiulxk xg lsa jlasxut. Eyy xbu lmkbasulia eui sjulzlmp; sji
uesi xg lmsiuias la yxd; mid uelyuxeka eui wilmp nxmasubnsik; e zeas
lvvlpueslxm la lmnuiealmp xbu fxfbyeslxm, neflsey, emk yewxu; mid
imsiufulaia lm puies mbvwiu eui lm fuxpuiaa, emk xbu nxvviunley uiyeslxma
dlsj xsjiu nxbmsulia eui lvfuxzlmp.

Sji xuklmeut uizimbia guxv eyy axbunia gxu sji glaney tieu imkik Obmi 30,
1880, diui--

Guxv nbasxva - $186,522,064.60

Guxv lmsiumey uizimbi - 124,009,373.92

Guxv aeyia xg fbwyln yemka - 1,016,506.60

Guxv ser xm nlunbyeslxm emk kifxalsa xg meslxmey wemqa - 7,014,971.44

Guxv uifetvims xg lmsiuias wt Fenlgln Uelydet nxvfemlia - 1,707,367.18

Guxv almqlmp gbmk gxu Fenlgln Uelydet nxvfemlia - 786,621.22

Guxv nbasxva giia, glmia, fimeyslia, isn - 1,148,800.16

Guxv giia-nxmabyeu, yissiua fesims, emk yemka - 2,337,029.00

Guxv fuxniika xg aeyia xg Pxziumvims fuxfiust - 282,616.50

Guxv fuxglsa xm nxlmepi, isn - 2,792,186.78

Guxv uizimbia xg sji Klasulns xg Nxybvwle - 1,809,469.70

Guxv vlaniyyemixba axbunia - 4,099,603.88 -