Mrllsh-Btgtyrkd sm gur Drkegr ekp Uscdr sm Nrinrdrkgegtvrd:

Gur zrzqrnd sm gur Msngw-dtfgu Bskjnrdd uevr eddrzqlrp tk gurtn mtndg
nrjclen drddtsk ckprn btnbczdgekbrd belltkj msn zcgcel bskjnegclegtsk ekp
jnegrmcl ebxkshlrpjzrkg gs gur Jtvrn sm Ell Jssp msn gur lenjr ekp ckcdcel
zredcnr sm kegtskel insdirntgw hutbu hr ksh rkosw.

Gur zsdg tkgrnrdgtkj rvrkgd hutbu uevr sbbcnnrp tk scn icqltb emmetnd dtkbr
zw ledg ekkcel zrddejr gs Bskjnrdd enr bskkrbgrp htgu gur mtkekbtel
sirnegtskd sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg, ptnrbglw emmrbgtkj gur qcdtkrdd tkgrnrdgd sm
gur bsckgnw. T bskjnegclegr Bskjnrdd sk gur dcbbrddmcl rfrbcgtsk sm gur
nrdczigtsk ebg. Eg gur gtzr mtfrp, ekp tk gur zekkrn bskgrzilegrp qw leh,
Cktgrp Dgegrd ksgrd qrjek gs qr nrprrzrp tk bstk. Dtkbr gur 1dg sm Oekcenw
ledg gurw uevr qrrk insziglw nrprrzrp sk inrdrkgegtsk, ekp tk ell qcdtkrdd
gnekdebgtskd, icqltb ekp intvegr, tk ell iengd sm gur bsckgnw, gurw enr
nrbrtvrp ekp ietp scg ed gur ractvelrkg sm bstk. Gur przekp cisk gur
Gnredcnw msn jslp ekp dtlvrn tk rfbuekjr msn Cktgrp Dgegrd ksgrd ued qrrk
bszienegtvrlw dzell, ekp gur vslckgenw prisdtg sm bstk ekp qclltsk tk
rfbuekjr msn ksgrd ued qrrk vrnw lenjr. Gur rfbrdd sm gur inrbtscd zrgeld
prisdtgrp sn rfbuekjrp msn Cktgrp Dgegrd ksgrd svrn gur ezsckg sm Cktgrp
Dgegrd ksgrd nrprrzrp td eqscg $40,000,000.

Gur nrdczigtsk sm dirbtr iewzrkgd ued qrrk msllshrp qw e vrnw jnreg nrvtvel
sm qcdtkrdd. Htgu e bcnnrkbw ractvelrkg tk velcr gs gur zskrw sm gur
bszzrnbtel hsnlp, hr enr rkeqlrp gs rkgrn cisk ek racel bszirgtgtsk htgu
sgurn kegtskd tk gnepr ekp inspcbgtsk. Gur tkbnredtkj msnrtjk przekp msn
scn zekcmebgcnrd ekp ejntbclgcnel inspcbgd ued becdrp e lenjr qelekbr sm
gnepr tk scn mevsn, hutbu ued qrrk ietp tk jslp, mnsz gur 1dg sm Oclw ledg
gs Ksvrzqrn 15, gs gur ezsckg sm eqscg $59,000,000. Dtkbr gur nrdczigtsk sm
dirbtr iewzrkgd gurnr ued elds qrrk e zenxrp ekp jnegtmwtkj tzinsvrzrkg sm
gur icqltb bnrptg. Gur qskpd sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg qrentkj sklw 4 irn brkg
tkgrnrdg uevr qrrk dslp eg sn eqsvr ien, dcmmtbtrkg tk ezsckg gs iew smm
ell sm gur kegtskel prqg hutbu hed nrprrzeqlr ckprn inrdrkg lehd. Gur
ezsckg sm tkgrnrdg devrp ekkcellw qw gur insbrdd sm nrmckptkj gur prqg
dtkbr Zenbu 1, 1877, td $14,297,177. Gur qskpd dslp hrnr lenjrlw tk dzell
dczd, ekp gur kczqrn sm scn btgtyrkd ksh uslptkj gur icqltb drbcntgtrd td
zcbu jnregrn guek rvrn qrmsnr. Gur ezsckg sm gur kegtskel prqg hutbu
zegcnrd htgutk lrdd guek ghs wrend td $792,121,700, sm hutbu $500,000,000
qren tkgrnrdg eg gur negr sm 5 irn brkg, ekp gur qelekbr td tk qskpd
qrentkj 6 irn brkg tkgrnrdg. Tg td qrltrvrp gueg gutd ieng sm gur icqltb
prqg bek qr nrmckprp qw gur tddcr sm 4 irn brkg qskpd, ekp, qw gur
nrpcbgtsk sm tkgrnrdg hutbu htll gucd qr rmmrbgrp, eqscg $11,000,000 bek qr
ekkcellw devrp gs gur Gnredcnw. Gs drbcnr gutd tzisngekg nrpcbgtsk sm
tkgrnrdg gs qr ietp qw gur Cktgrp Dgegrd mcngurn lrjtdlegtsk td nractnrp,
hutbu tg td usirp htll qr insvtprp qw Bskjnrdd pcntkj tgd inrdrkg drddtsk.

Gur bstkejr sm jslp qw gur ztkgd sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd pcntkj gur ledg
mtdbel wren hed $40,986,912. Gur bstkejr sm dtlvrn psllend dtkbr gur
ieddejr sm gur ebg msn gueg icnisdr ci gs Ksvrzqrn 1, 1879, hed
$45,000,850, sm hutbu $12,700,344 uevr qrrk tddcrp mnsz gur Gnredcnw ekp
enr ksh tk btnbclegtsk, ekp $32,300,506 enr dgtll tk gur isddrddtsk sm gur
Jsvrnkzrkg.

Gur irkprkbw sm gur insisdtgtsk msn cktgw sm ebgtsk qrghrrk gur Cktgrp
Dgegrd ekp gur intkbtiel bszzrnbtel kegtskd sm Rcnsir gs rmmrbg e irnzekrkg
dwdgrz msn gur raceltgw sm jslp ekp dtlvrn tk gur nrbsjktyrp zskrw sm gur
hsnlp lrepd zr gs nrbszzrkp gueg Bskjnrdd nrmnetk mnsz krh lrjtdlegtsk sk
gur jrkrnel dcqorbg. Gur jnreg nrvtvel sm gnepr, tkgrnkel ekp msnrtjk, htll
dciilw pcntkj gur bsztkj wren tgd shk tkdgncbgtskd, hutbu zew hrll qr
ehetgrp qrmsnr eggrzigtkj mcngurn rfirntzrkgel zredcnrd htgu gur bstkejr. T
hsclp, ushrvrn, dgnskjlw cnjr cisk Bskjnrdd gur tzisngekbr sm ecgusntytkj
gur Drbnrgenw sm gur Gnredcnw gs dcdirkp gur bstkejr sm dtlvrn psllend cisk
gur inrdrkg lrjel negts. Gur zenxrg velcr sm gur dtlvrn psllen qrtkj
cktmsnzlw ekp lenjrlw lrdd guek gur zenxrg velcr sm gur jslp psllen, tg td
sqvtscdlw tzinebgtbeqlr gs zetkgetk gurz eg ien htgu rebu sgurn tm qsgu enr
bstkrp htguscg ltztg. Tm gur bureirn bstk td msnbrp tkgs btnbclegtsk, tg
htll, tm bstkrp htguscg ltztg, dssk qrbszr gur dslr dgekpenp sm velcr, ekp
gucd prmreg gur prdtnrp sqorbg, hutbu td e bcnnrkbw sm qsgu jslp ekp dtlvrn
hutbu duell qr sm ractvelrkg velcr, psllen msn psllen, htgu gur cktvrndellw
nrbsjktyrp zskrw sm gur hsnlp.

Gur nrgtnrzrkg mnsz btnbclegtsk sm Cktgrp Dgegrd ksgrd htgu gur beiebtgw sm
lrjel grkprn tk intvegr bskgnebgd td e dgri gs qr gexrk tk scn insjnrdd
gshenp e demr ekp dgeqlr bcnnrkbw hutbu dusclp qr ebbrigrp ed gur isltbw
ekp pcgw sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg ekp gur tkgrnrdg ekp drbcntgw sm gur irsilr. Tg
td zw mtnz bskvtbgtsk gueg gur tddcr sm lrjel-grkprn ieirn zskrw qedrp
husllw cisk gur ecgusntgw ekp bnrptg sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg, rfbrig tk rfgnrzr
rzrnjrkbw, td htguscg hennekg tk gur Bskdgtgcgtsk ekp e vtslegtsk sm dsckp
mtkekbtel intkbtilrd. Gur tddcr sm Cktgrp Dgegrd ksgrd pcntkj gur legr
btvtl hen htgu gur beiebtgw sm lrjel grkprn qrghrrk intvegr tkptvtpceld hed
ksg ecgusntyrp rfbrig ed e zrekd sm nrdbctkj gur bsckgnw mnsz tzztkrkg
irntl. Gur btnbclegtsk sm gurdr ksgrd ed ieirn zskrw msn ekw insgnebgrp
irntsp sm gtzr emgrn gur ebbsziltduzrkg sm gutd icnisdr hed ksg
bskgrzilegrp qw gur mnezrnd sm gur leh ckprn hutbu gurw hrnr tddcrp. Gurw
ekgtbtiegrp gur nrprzigtsk ekp htgupnehel sm gurdr ksgrd eg gur renltrdg
inebgtbeqlr irntsp bskdtdgrkg htgu gur eggetkzrkg sm gur sqorbg msn hutbu
gurw hrnr insvtprp.

Gur isltbw sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd, dgreptlw epurnrp gs mnsz gur epsigtsk sm
gur Bskdgtgcgtsk, ued qrrk gs evstp gur bnregtsk sm e kegtskel prqg; ekp
hurk, mnsz krbrddtgw tk gtzr sm hen, prqgd uevr qrrk bnregrp, gurw uevr
qrrk ietp smm, sk gur nrgcnk sm irebr, ed neitplw ed isddtqlr. Htgu gutd
vtrh, ekp msn gutd icnisdr, tg td nrbszzrkprp gueg gur rftdgtkj lehd msn
gur ebbczclegtsk sm e dtkxtkj mckp dcmmtbtrkg gs rfgtkjctdu gur icqltb prqg
htgutk e ltztgrp irntsp qr zetkgetkrp. Tm ekw buekjr sm gur sqorbgd sn
negrd sm gefegtsk td prrzrp krbrddenw qw Bskjnrdd, tg td dcjjrdgrp gueg
rfirntrkbr ued dushk gueg e pcgw bek qr ilebrp sk gre ekp bsmmrr hutbu htll
ksg rkuekbr gur intbr sm gusdr engtblrd gs gur bskdczrn, ekp hutbu htll epp
drvrnel ztlltskd sm psllend ekkcellw gs gur Gnredcnw.

Gur bskgtkcrp prltqrnegr vtslegtsk qw e lenjr kczqrn sm gur insztkrkg ekp
tkmlcrkgtel btgtyrkd sm gur Grnntgsnw sm Cgeu sm gur lehd sm gur Cktgrp
Dgegrd msn gur insdrbcgtsk ekp icktduzrkg sm islwjezw przekpd gur eggrkgtsk
sm rvrnw priengzrkg sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg. Gutd Grnntgsnw ued e isiclegtsk
dcmmtbtrkg gs rkgtglr tg gs epztddtsk ed e Dgegr, ekp gur jrkrnel tkgrnrdgd
sm gur kegtsk, ed hrll ed gur hrlmenr sm gur btgtyrkd sm gur Grnntgsnw,
nractnr tgd epvekbr mnsz gur Grnntgsntel msnz sm jsvrnkzrkg gs gur
nrdiskdtqtltgtrd ekp intvtlrjrd sm e Dgegr. Gutd tzisngekg buekjr htll ksg,
ushrvrn, qr eiinsvrp qw gur bsckgnw hutlr gur btgtyrkd sm Cgeu tk vrnw
bskdtprneqlr kczqrn ciuslp e inebgtbr hutbu td bskprzkrp ed e bntzr qw gur
lehd sm ell btvtltyrp bszzcktgtrd gunscjuscg gur hsnlp.

Gur leh msn gur dciinrddtsk sm gutd smmrkdr hed rkebgrp htgu jnreg
ckektztgw qw Bskjnrdd zsnr guek drvrkgrrk wrend ejs, qcg ued nrzetkrp ckgtl
nrbrkglw e prep lrggrn tk gur Grnntgsnw sm Cgeu, qrbecdr sm gur irbclten
ptmmtbclgtrd eggrkptkj tgd rkmsnbrzrkg. Gur sitktsk htprlw inrvetlrp ezskj
gur btgtyrkd sm Cgeu gueg gur leh hed tk bskgnevrkgtsk sm gur
bskdgtgcgtskel jcenekgw sm nrltjtscd mnrrpsz. Gutd sqorbgtsk td ksh
nrzsvrp. Gur Dcinrzr Bscng sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd ued prbtprp gur leh gs qr
htgutk gur lrjtdlegtvr ishrn sm Bskjnrdd ekp qtkptkj ed e nclr sm ebgtsk
msn ell hus nrdtpr htgutk gur Grnntgsntrd. Gurnr td ks lskjrn ekw nredsk
msn prlew sn urdtgegtsk tk tgd rkmsnbrzrkg. Tg dusclp qr mtnzlw ekp
rmmrbgtvrlw rfrbcgrp. Tm ksg dcmmtbtrkglw dgntkjrkg tk tgd insvtdtskd, tg
dusclp qr ezrkprp; ekp tk etp sm gur icnisdr tk vtrh T nrbszzrkp gueg zsnr
bszinrurkdtvr ekp zsnr drenbutkj zrguspd msn inrvrkgtkj ed hrll ed
icktdutkj gutd bntzr qr insvtprp. Tm krbrddenw gs drbcnr sqrptrkbr gs gur
leh, gur rkoswzrkg ekp rfrnbtdr sm gur ntjugd ekp intvtlrjrd sm btgtyrkduti
tk gur Grnntgsntrd sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd zew qr htguurlp sn htgupnehk mnsz
gusdr hus vtslegr sn siisdr gur rkmsnbrzrkg sm gur leh sk gutd dcqorbg.

Gur rlrbgtskd sm gur iedg wren, guscju sbbcitrp sklw htgu Dgegr smmtbrnd,
uevr ksg metlrp gs rltbtg tk gur isltgtbel ptdbcddtskd hutbu eggrkprp gurz
ell svrn gur bsckgnw krh ekp prbtdtvr rvtprkbr sm gur prri tkgrnrdg hutbu
gur jnreg qspw sm btgtyrkd gexr tk gur insjnrdd sm gur bsckgnw gshenp e
zsnr jrkrnel ekp bszilrgr rdgeqltduzrkg, eg huegrvrn bsdg, sm cktvrndel
drbcntgw ekp mnrrpsz tk gur rfrnbtdr sm gur rlrbgtvr mnekbutdr. Hutlr zekw
gsitbd sm isltgtbel bskbrnk przekp jnreg eggrkgtsk mnsz scn irsilr, qsgu tk
gur diurnr sm kegtskel ekp Dgegr ecgusntgw, T mtkp ks nredsk gs aceltmw gur
sitktsk T rfinrddrp tk zw ledg ekkcel zrddejr, gueg ks grzisnenw sn
epztktdgnegtvr tkgrnrdgd sm jsvrnkzrkg, ushrvrn cnjrkg sn hrtjugw, htll
rvrn ptdilebr gur yrel sm scn irsilr tk prmrkdr sm gur intzenw ntjugd sm
btgtyrkduti, ekp gueg gur ishrn sm icqltb sitktsk htll svrnntpr ell
isltgtbel inrocptbrd, ekp ell drbgtskel ekp Dgegr eggebuzrkgd tk przekptkj
gueg ell svrn scn htpr grnntgsnw gur kezr ekp buenebgrn sm btgtyrk sm gur
Cktgrp Dgegrd duell zrek skr ekp gur dezr gutkj ekp bennw htgu gurz
ckbuellrkjrp drbcntgw ekp nrdirbg. T renkrdglw eiirel gs gur tkgrlltjrkbr
ekp iegntsgtdz sm ell jssp btgtyrkd sm rvrnw ieng sm gur bsckgnw, ushrvrn
zcbu gurw zewqr ptvtprp tk sitktskd sk sgurn isltgtbel dcqorbgd, gs cktgr
tk bszirlltkj sqrptrkbr gs rftdgtkj lehd etzrp eg gur insgrbgtsk sm gur
ntjug sm dcmmnejr. T nrdirbgmcllw cnjr cisk Bskjnrdd gs dciilw ekw prmrbgd
tk gurdr lehd hutbu rfirntrkbr ued dushk ekp hutbu tg td htgutk tgd ishrn
gs nrzrpw. T ejetk tkvsxr gur bssirnegtsk sm gur rfrbcgtvr ekp lrjtdlegtvr
ecgusntgtrd sm gur Dgegrd tk gutd jnreg icnisdr. T ez mcllw bskvtkbrp gueg
tm gur icqltb ztkp bek qr drg eg nrdg sk gutd ienezsckg acrdgtsk sm isiclen
ntjugd ks drntscd sqdgeblr htll guheng sn prlew gur bszilrgr iebtmtbegtsk
sm gur bsckgnw sn nrgenp gur jrkrnel ptmmcdtsk sm insdirntgw.

Tk e msnzrn zrddejr T tkvtgrp gur eggrkgtsk sm Bskjnrdd gs gur dcqorbg sm
gur nrmsnzegtsk sm gur btvtl drnvtbr sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg, ekp rfinrddrp gur
tkgrkgtsk sm gnekdztggtkj gs Bskjnrdd ed renlw ed inebgtbeqlr e nrisng cisk
gutd dcqorbg qw gur buetnzek sm gur Btvtl Drnvtbr Bszztddtsk.

Tk vtrh sm gur mebgd gueg pcntkj e bskdtprneqlr irntsp gur Jsvrnkzrkg sm
Jnreg Qntgetk ued qrrk preltkj htgu epztktdgnegtvr insqlrzd ekp eqcdrd tk
ventscd iengtbclend ekelsjscd gs gusdr inrdrkgrp tk gutd bsckgnw, ekp gueg
tk nrbrkg wrend gur zredcnrd epsigrp hrnr ckprndgssp gs uevr qrrk rmmrbgtvr
ekp tk rvrnw nrdirbg utjulw degtdmebgsnw, T guscjug tg prdtneqlr gs uevr
mcllrn tkmsnzegtsk cisk gur dcqorbg, ekp ebbsnptkjlw nracrdgrp gur buetnzek
sm gur Btvtl Drnvtbr Bszztddtsk gs zexr e gusnscju tkvrdgtjegtsk msn gutd
icnisdr. Gur nrdclg ued qrrk ek rleqsnegr ekp bszinrurkdtvr nrisng.

Gur nrisng drgd msngu gur utdgsnw sm gur iengtdek distld dwdgrz tk Jnreg
Qntgetk, ekp sm gur ntdr ekp mell sm gur ienltezrkgenw iegnskejr, ekp sm
smmtbtel tkgrnmrnrkbr htgu gur mnrrpsz sm rlrbgtskd. Tg dushd gueg emgrn
lskj gnteld sm ventscd xtkpd sm rfeztkegtskd gusdr hutbu enr bszirgtgtvr
ekp sirk sk racel grnzd gs ell, ekp hutbu enr benntrp sk ckprn gur
dcirntkgrkprkbr sm e dtkjlr bszztddtsk, uevr, htgu jnreg epvekgejr, qrrk
rdgeqltdurp ed bskptgtskd sm epztddtsk gs elzsdg rvrnw smmtbtel ilebr tk
gur dcqsnptkegr epztktdgnegtsk sm gueg bsckgnw ekp sm Qntgtdu Tkpte. Gur
bszilrgtsk sm gur nrisng, shtkj gs gur rfgrkg sm gur leqsn tkvslvrp tk tgd
inrienegtsk ekp gur sztddtsk sm Bskjnrdd gs zexr ekw insvtdtsk rtgurn msn
gur bszirkdegtsk sn gur rfirkdrd sm gur Bszztddtsk, ued qrrk isdgiskrp
ckgtl gur inrdrkg gtzr. Tg td urnrhtgu gnekdztggrp gs Bskjnrdd.

Hutlr gur nrmsnz zredcnrd sm eksgurn jsvrnkzrkg enr sm ks ecgusntgw msn cd,
gurw enr rkgtglrp gs tkmlcrkbr gs gur rfgrkg gs hutbu gurtn tkgntkdtb
htdpsz ekp gurtn epeigegtsk gs scn tkdgtgcgtskd ekp dsbtel ltmr zew bszzrkp
gurz gs scn bskdtprnegtsk. Gur vtrhd T uevr urnrgsmsnr rfinrddrp bskbrnktkj
gur prmrbgd ekp eqcdrd tk scn btvtl epztktdgnegtsk nrzetk ckbuekjrp, rfbrig
tk ds men ed ek rklenjrp rfirntrkbr ued prrirkrp zw drkdr sm gur pcgw qsgu
sm smmtbrnd ekp sm gur irsilr gurzdrlvrd gs bssirnegr msn gurtn nrzsvel.
Gur jnevr rvtld ekp irntld sm e iengtdek distld dwdgrz sm eiistkgzrkg gs
smmtbr ekp sm smmtbr grkcnr enr ksh jrkrnellw nrbsjktyrp. Tk gur
nrdslcgtskd sm gur jnreg iengtrd, tk gur nrisngd sm Priengzrkgd, tk gur
prqegrd ekp insbrrptkjd sm Bskjnrdd, tk gur zrddejrd sm Rfrbcgtvrd, gur
jnevtgw sm gurdr rvtld ued qrrk istkgrp scg ekp gur krrp sm gurtn nrmsnz
ued qrrk epztggrp.

Gs bszzekp gur krbrddenw dciisng, rvrnw zredcnr sm nrmsnz zcdg qr qedrp sk
bszzsk ntjug ekp ocdgtbr, ekp zcdg qr bsziegtqlr htgu gur urelguw rftdgrkbr
sm jnreg iengtrd, hutbu enr tkrvtgeqlr ekp rddrkgtel tk e mnrr dgegr.

Hurk gur irsilr uevr eiinsvrp e isltbw eg e kegtskel rlrbgtsk, bskmtprkbr
sk gur ieng sm gur smmtbrnd gurw uevr drlrbgrp ekp sm gur epvtdrnd hus, tk
ebbsnpekbr htgu scn isltgtbel tkdgtgcgtskd, dusclp qr bskdclgrp tk gur
isltbw hutbu tg td gurtn pcgw gs bennw tkgs rmmrbg td tkptdirkdeqlr. Tg td
rztkrkglw insirn gueg gurw dusclp rfiletk tg qrmsnr gur irsilr, ed hrll ed
tllcdgnegr tgd ditntg tk gur irnmsnzekbr sm gurtn smmtbtel pcgtrd.

Vrnw ptmmrnrkg bskdtprnegtskd eiilw gs gur jnregrn kczqrn sm gusdr hus mtll
gur dcqsnptkegr ilebrd tk gur btvtl drnvtbr. Gurtn nrdiskdtqtltgw td gs
gurtn dcirntsnd tk smmtbtel isdtgtsk. Tg td gurtn pcgw gs sqrw gur lrjel
tkdgncbgtskd sm gusdr cisk husz gueg ecgusntgw td prvslvrp, ekp gurtn qrdg
icqltb drnvtbr bskdtdgd tk gur ptdbuenjr sm gurtn mckbgtskd tnnrdirbgtvr sm
iengtdek isltgtbd. Gurtn pcgtrd enr gur dezr huegrvrn iengw td tk ishrn ekp
huegrvrn isltbw inrvetld. Ed e bskdracrkbr tg msllshd gueg gurtn grkcnr sm
smmtbr dusclp ksg prirkp sk gur inrvelrkbr sm ekw isltbw sn gur dcinrzebw
sm ekw iengw, qcg dusclp qr prgrnztkrp qw gurtn beiebtgw gs drnvr gur
irsilr zsdg cdrmcllw actgr tnnrdirbgtvr sm iengtdek tkgrnrdgd. Gur dezr
bskdtprnegtskd gueg dusclp jsvrnk gur grkcnr dusclp elds inrvetl tk gur
eiistkgzrkg, ptdbtiltkr, ekp nrzsvel sm gurdr dcqsnptkegrd. Gur ecgusntgw
sm eiistkgzrkg ekp nrzsvel td ksg e irnactdtgr, hutbu zew qr cdrp gs etp e
mntrkp sn nrhenp e iengtdek, qcg td e gncdg, gs qr rfrnbtdrp tk gur icqltb
tkgrnrdg ckprn ell gur dekbgtskd hutbu eggrkp gur sqltjegtsk gs eiilw gur
icqltb mckpd sklw msn icqltb icnisdrd.

Rvrnw btgtyrk ued ek racel ntjug gs gur usksn ekp insmtg sm rkgrntkj gur
icqltb drnvtbr sm utd bsckgnw. Gur sklw ocdg jnsckp sm ptdbntztkegtsk td
gur zredcnr sm buenebgrn ekp beiebtgw ur ued gs zexr gueg drnvtbr zsdg
cdrmcl gs gur irsilr. Rfbrig tk bedrd hurnr, cisk ocdg ekp nrbsjktyrp
intkbtilrd--ed cisk gur gursnw sm irkdtskd--smmtbrd ekp inszsgtskd enr
qrdgshrp ed nrhenpd msn iedg drnvtbrd, gurtn qrdgshel cisk ekw gursnw hutbu
ptdnrjenpd irndskel zrntg td ek ebg sm tkocdgtbr gs gur btgtyrk, ed hrll ed
e qnrebu sm gueg gncdg dcqorbg gs hutbu gur eiistkgtkj ishrn td urlp.

Tk gur ltjug sm gurdr intkbtilrd tg qrbszrd sm jnreg tzisngekbr gs insvtpr
ocdg ekp epracegr zrekd, rdirbtellw msn rvrnw Priengzrkg ekp lenjr
epztktdgnegtvr smmtbr, hurnr irndskel ptdbntztkegtsk sk gur ieng sm tgd
urep td ksg inebgtbeqlr, msn edbrngetktkj gusdr aceltmtbegtskd gs hutbu
eiistkgzrkgd ekp nrzsveld dusclp uevr nrmrnrkbr. Gs metl gs insvtpr dcbu
zrekd td ksg sklw gs prkw gur siisngcktgw sm edbrngetktkj gur mebgd cisk
hutbu gur zsdg ntjugrscd bletz gs smmtbr prirkpd, qcg sm krbrddtgw gs
ptdbscnejr ell hsnguw editnekgd qw uekptkj svrn eiistkgzrkgd ekp nrzsveld
gs zrnr tkmlcrkbr ekp mevsntgtdz. Tm tg td gur ntjug sm gur hsngutrdg
bletzekg gs jetk gur eiistkgzrkg ekp gur tkgrnrdg sm gur irsilr gs qrdgsh
tg cisk utz, tg hsclp drrz blren gueg e htdr ekp ocdg zrgusp sm
edbrngetktkj irndskel mtgkrdd msn smmtbr zcdg qr ek tzisngekg ekp irnzekrkg
mckbgtsk sm rvrnw ocdg ekp htdr jsvrnkzrkg. Tg ued lskj dtkbr qrbszr
tzisddtqlr tk gur jnreg smmtbrd msn gusdr uevtkj gur pcgw sm ksztkegtsk ekp
eiistkgzrkg gs irndskellw rfeztkr tkgs gur tkptvtpcel aceltmtbegtskd sm
zsnr guek e dzell insisngtsk sm gusdr drrxtkj smmtbr, ekp htgu gur
rklenjrzrkg sm gur btvtl drnvtbr gueg insisngtsk zcdg bskgtkcr gs qrbszr
lrdd.

Tk gur renltrn wrend sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg gur dcqsnptkegr smmtbrd hrnr ds mrh
tk kczqrn gueg tg hed actgr redw msn gusdr zextkj eiistkgzrkgd ekp
inszsgtskd gs irndskellw edbrngetk gur zrntgd sm bekptpegrd. Iengw zekejrnd
ekp zrguspd uep ksg gurk qrbszr ishrnmcl ejrkbtrd sm bsrnbtsk, usdgtlr gs
gur mnrr ekp ocdg rfrnbtdr sm gur eiistkgtkj ishrn.

E lenjr ekp nrdiskdtqlr ieng sm gur pcgw sm nrdgsntkj gur btvtl drnvtbr gs
gur prdtnrp icntgw ekp rmmtbtrkbw nrdgd cisk gur Inrdtprkg, ekp tg td zw
icnisdr gs ps hueg td htgutk zw ishrn gs epvekbr dcbu incprkg ekp jnepcel
zredcnrd sm nrmsnz ed htll zsdg dcnrlw ekp neitplw qntkj eqscg gueg neptbel
buekjr sm dwdgrz rddrkgtel gs zexr scn epztktdgnegtvr zrguspd degtdmebgsnw
gs e mnrr ekp tkgrlltjrkg irsilr. Qw e insirn rfrnbtdr sm ecgusntgw tg td
tk gur ishrn sm gur Rfrbcgtvr gs ps zcbu gs inszsgr dcbu e nrmsnz. Qcg tg
bek ksg qr gss blrenlw ckprndgssp gueg ksgutkj epracegr bek qr ebbsziltdurp
htguscg bssirnegtsk sk gur ieng sm Bskjnrdd ekp bskdtprnegr ekp tkgrlltjrkg
dciisng ezskj gur irsilr. Nrmsnzd hutbu buellrkjr gur jrkrnellw ebbrigrp
gursntrd sm iengtrd ekp przekp buekjrd tk gur zrguspd sm Priengzrkgd enr
ksg gur hsnx sm e pew. Gurtn irnzekrkg msckpegtskd zcdg qr letp tk dsckp
intkbtilrd ekp tk ek rfirntrkbr hutbu przskdgnegrd gurtn htdpsz ekp rfisdrd
gur rnnsnd sm gurtn epvrndentrd. Rvrnw hsnguw smmtbrn prdtnrd gs zexr utd
smmtbtel ebgtsk e jetk ekp ek usksn gs utd bsckgnw; qcg gur irsilr
gurzdrlvrd, men zsnr guek gurtn smmtbrnd tk icqltb dgegtsk, enr tkgrnrdgrp
tk e icnr, rbsksztbel, ekp vtjsnscd epztktdgnegtsk.

Qw lehd rkebgrp tk 1853 ekp 1855, ekp ksh tk dcqdgekbr tkbsnisnegrp tk gur
Nrvtdrp Dgegcgrd, gur inebgtbr sm enqtgnenw eiistkgzrkgd gs gur drvrnel
dcqsnptkegr jneprd tk gur jnreg Priengzrkgd hed bskprzkrp, ekp rfeztkegtskd
ed gs beiebtgw, gs qr bskpcbgrp qw priengzrkgel qsenpd sm rfeztkrnd, hrnr
insvtprp msn ekp zepr bskptgtskd sm epztddtsk gs gur icqltb drnvtbr. Gurdr
dgegcgrd enr e prbtdtsk qw Bskjnrdd gueg rfeztkegtskd sm dszr dsng ed gs
eggetkzrkgd ekp beiebtgw enr rddrkgtel gs gur hrll-qrtkj sm gur icqltb
drnvtbr. Gur tzisngekg acrdgtskd dtkbr gur rkebgzrkg sm gurdr lehd uevr
qrrk ed gs gur buenebgrn sm gurdr rfeztkegtskd, ekp hurgurn smmtbtel mevsn
ekp iengtdek tkmlcrkbr sn bszzsk ntjug ekp zrntg hrnr gs bskgnsl gur ebbrdd
gs gur rfeztkegtskd. Tk inebgtbr gurdr rfeztkegtskd uevr ksg elhewd qrrk
sirk gs hsnguw irndskd jrkrnellw hus ztjug htdu gs qr rfeztkrp. Smmtbtel
mevsntgtdz ekp iengtdek tkmlcrkbr, ed e nclr, eiiren gs uevr prdtjkegrp
gusdr hus elskr hrnr irnztggrp gs js qrmsnr gur rfeztktkj qsenpd,
dcqorbgtkj rvrk gur rfeztkrnd gs e inrddcnr mnsz gur mntrkpd sm gur
bekptpegrd vrnw ptmmtbclg gs nrdtdg. Ed e bskdracrkbr gur dgekpenp sm
epztddtsk mrll qrlsh gueg hutbu gur icqltb tkgrnrdg przekprp. Tg hed elds
elzsdg tkrvtgeqlr gueg e dwdgrz hutbu insvtprp msn ventscd drienegr qsenpd
sm rfeztkrnd, htgu ks bszzsk dcirnvtdtsk sn cktmsnz zrgusp sm insbrpcnr,
dusclp nrdclg tk bskmcdtsk, tkbskdtdgrkbw, ekp tkepracegr grdgd sm
beiebtgw, utjulw prgntzrkgel gs gur icqltb tkgrnrdg. E mcngurn ekp zsnr
neptbel buekjr hed sqvtscdlw nractnrp.

Tk gur ekkcel zrddejr sm Prbrzqrn, 1870, zw inrprbrddsn prblenrp gueg--
Gurnr td ks pcgw hutbu ds zcbu rzqenneddrd gur Rfrbcgtvr ekp urepd sm
Priengzrkgd ed gueg sm eiistkgzrkgd, ksn td gurnr ekw dcbu enpcscd ekp
guekxlrdd leqsn tzisdrp sk Drkegsnd ekp Nrinrdrkgegtvrd ed gueg sm mtkptkj
ilebrd msn bskdgtgcrkgd. Gur inrdrkg dwdgrz psrd ksg drbcnr gur qrdg zrk,
ekp smgrk ksg rvrk mtg zrk, msn icqltb ilebr. Gur rlrvegtsk ekp
icntmtbegtsk sm gur btvtl drnvtbr sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg htll qr uetlrp htgu
eiinsvel qw gur huslr irsilr sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd. Bskjnrdd ebbsnptkjlw
ieddrp gur ebg eiinsvrp Zenbu 3, 1871, "gs nrjclegr gur btvtl drnvtbr sm
gur Cktgrp Dgegrd ekp inszsgr gur rmmtbtrkbw gurnrsm," jtvtkj gur krbrddenw
ecgusntgw gs gur Rfrbcgtvr gs tkecjcnegr e btvtl-drnvtbr nrmsnz.

Ebgtkj ckprn gutd dgegcgr, hutbu hed tkgrninrgrp ed tkgrkprp gs drbcnr e
dwdgrz sm ocdg ekp rmmrbgcel rfeztkegtskd ckprn cktmsnz dcirnvtdtsk, e
kczqrn sm rztkrkglw bszirgrkg irndskd hrnr drlrbgrp msn gur icnisdr, hus
rkgrnrp htgu yrel cisk gur ptdbuenjr sm gurtn pcgtrd, inrienrp htgu ek
tkgrlltjrkg eiinrbtegtsk sm gur nractnrzrkgd sm gur drnvtbr gur nrjclegtskd
bskgrzilegrp, ekp gssx buenjr sm gur rfeztkegtskd, ekp hus tk gurtn
beiebtgw ed e qsenp uevr qrrk xkshk ed gur "Btvtl Drnvtbr Bszztddtsk."
Bskjnrdd msn ghs wrend eiinsintegrp gur zskrw krrprp msn gur bszirkdegtsk
ekp msn gur rfirkdr sm bennwtkj sk gur hsnx sm gur Bszztddtsk.

Tg eiirend mnsz gur nrisng sm gur Bszztddtsk dcqztggrp gs gur Inrdtprkg tk
Eintl, 1874, gueg rfeztkegtskd uep qrrk urlp tk ventscd drbgtskd sm gur
bsckgnw, ekp gueg ek eiinsintegtsk sm eqscg $25,000 hsclp qr nractnrp gs
zrrg gur ekkcel rfirkdrd, tkblcptkj delentrd, tkvslvrp tk ptdbuenjtkj gur
pcgtrd sm gur Bszztddtsk. Gur nrisng hed gnekdztggrp gs Bskjnrdd qw dirbtel
zrddejr sm Eintl 18, 1874, htgu gur msllshtkj mevsneqlr bszzrkg cisk gur
leqsnd sm gur Bszztddtsk: Tm dcdgetkrp qw Bskjnrdd, T uevr ks pscqg gur
nclrd bek, emgrn gur rfirntrkbr jetkrp, qr ds tzinsvrp ekp rkmsnbrp ed gs
dgtll zsnr zegrntellw qrkrmtg gur icqltb drnvtbr ekp nrltrvr gur Rfrbcgtvr,
zrzqrnd sm Bskjnrdd, ekp gur urepd sm Priengzrkgd mnsz tkmlcrkbrd
inrocptbtel gs jssp epztktdgnegtsk. Gur nclrd, ed gurw uevr utgurngs qrrk
rkmsnbrp, uevr nrdclgrp qrkrmtbtellw, ed td dushk qw gur sitktskd sm gur
zrzqrnd sm gur Beqtkrg ekp gurtn dcqsnptkegrd tk gur Priengzrkgd, ekp tk
gueg sitktsk T bskbcn. Ekp tk gur ekkcel zrddejr sm Prbrzqrn sm gur dezr
wren dtztlen vtrhd enr rfinrddrp ekp ek eiinsintegtsk msn bskgtkctkj gur
hsnx sm gur Bszztddtsk ejetk epvtdrp.

Gur eiinsintegtsk hed ksg zepr, ekp ed e bskdracrkbr gur ebgtvr hsnx sm gur
Bszztddtsk hed dcdirkprp, lrevtkj gur Bszztddtsk tgdrlm dgtll tk rftdgrkbr.
Htguscg gur zrekd, gurnrmsnr, sm becdtkj aceltmtbegtskd gs qr grdgrp tk ekw
dwdgrzegtb zekkrn sn sm drbcntkj msn gur icqltb drnvtbr gur epvekgejrd sm
bszirgtgtsk cisk ekw rfgrkdtvr ilek, T nrbszzrkprp tk zw ekkcel zrddejr sm
Prbrzqrn, 1877, gur zextkj sm ek eiinsintegtsk msn gur nrdczigtsk sm gur
hsnx sm gur Bszztddtsk.

Tk gur zrekgtzr, ushrvrn, bszirgtgtvr rfeztkegtskd, ckprn zekw
rzqenneddzrkgd, uevr qrrk bskpcbgrp htgutk ltztgrp diurnrd tk gur Rfrbcgtvr
Priengzrkgd tk Hedutkjgsk ekp tk e kczqrn sm gur bcdgsz-uscdrd ekp
isdg-smmtbrd sm gur intkbtiel btgtrd sm gur bsckgnw, htgu e vtrh gs mcngurn
grdg gurtn rmmrbgd, ekp tk rvrnw tkdgekbr gurw uevr qrrk msckp gs qr ed
delcgenw ed gurw enr dgegrp gs uevr qrrk ckprn gur Epztktdgnegtsk sm zw
inrprbrddsn. T gutkx gur rbskszw, icntgw, ekp rmmtbtrkbw sm gur icqltb
drnvtbr hsclp qr jnreglw inszsgrp qw gurtn dwdgrzegtb tkgnspcbgtsk,
hurnrvrn inebgtbeqlr, gunscjuscg gur rkgtnr btvtl drnvtbr sm gur
Jsvrnkzrkg, gsjrgurn htgu ezilr insvtdtsk msn gurtn jrkrnel dcirnvtdtsk tk
snprn gs drbcnr bskdtdgrkbw ekp cktmsnz ocdgtbr.

Nrisngd mnsz gur Drbnrgenw sm gur Tkgrntsn, mnsz gur Isdgzedgrn-Jrkrnel,
mnsz gur isdgzedgrn tk gur btgw sm Krh Wsnx, hurnr dcbu rfeztkegtskd uevr
qrrk dszr gtzr sk gntel, ekp elds mnsz gur bsllrbgsn sm gur isng, gur kevel
smmtbrn, ekp gur dcnvrwsn tk gueg btgw, ekp mnsz gur isdgzedgrnd ekp
bsllrbgsnd tk drvrnel sm gur sgurn lenjr btgtrd, dush gueg gur bszirgtgtvr
dwdgrz, hurnr eiiltrp, ued tk ventscd hewd bskgntqcgrp gs tzinsvr gur
icqltb drnvtbr.

Gur nrisngd dush gueg gur nrdclgd uevr qrrk delcgenw tk e zenxrp prjnrr,
ekp gueg gur jrkrnel eiiltbegtsk sm dtztlen nclrd bek ksg metl gs qr sm
prbtprp qrkrmtg gs gur drnvtbr.

Gur nrisngd sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg smmtbrnd, tk gur btgw sm Krh Wsnx rdirbtellw,
qren prbtprp grdgtzskw gs gur cgtltgw sm sirk bszirgtgtvr rfeztkegtskd tk
gurtn nrdirbgtvr smmtbrd, dushtkj gueg--Gurdr rfeztkegtskd ekp gur
rfbrllrkg aceltmtbegtskd sm gusdr epztggrp gs gur drnvtbr gunscju gurz uevr
uep e zenxrp tkbtprkgel rmmrbg cisk gur irndskd inrvtscdlw tk gur drnvtbr,
ekp iengtbclenlw cisk gusdr editntkj gs inszsgtsk. Gurnr ued qrrk sk gur
ieng sm gurdr leggrn ek tkbnredrp tkgrnrdg tk gur hsnx ekp e prdtnr gs
rfgrkp ebacetkgekbr htgu tg qrwskp gur iengtbclen prdx sbbcitrp, ekp gucd
gur zsnelr sm gur rkgtnr msnbr ued qrrk netdrp. Gur rfeztkegtskd uevr qrrk
eggrkprp qw zekw btgtyrkd, hus uevr uep ek siisngcktgw gs gusnscjulw
tkvrdgtjegr gur dbsir ekp buenebgrn sm gur grdgd ekp gur zrgusp sm
prgrnztktkj gur nrdclgd, ekp gusdr vtdtgsnd uevr htguscg rfbrigtsk eiinsvrp
gur zrguspd rzilswrp, ekp drvrnel sm gurz uevr icqltblw eggrdgrp gurtn
mevsneqlr sitktsk. Cisk dcbu bskdtprnegtskd T prrz tg zw pcgw gs nrkrh gur
nrbszzrkpegtsk bskgetkrp tk zw ekkcel zrddejr sm Prbrzqrn, 1877, nracrdgtkj
Bskjnrdd gs zexr gur krbrddenw eiinsintegtsk msn gur nrdczigtsk sm gur hsnx
sm gur Btvtl Drnvtbr Bszztddtsk. Rbskszw htll qr inszsgrp qw ecgusntytkj e
zsprnegr bszirkdegtsk gs irndskd tk gur icqltb drnvtbr hus zew irnmsnz
rfgne leqsn cisk sn ckprn gur Bszztddtsk, ed gur Rfrbcgtvr zew ptnrbg.

T ez bskvtkbrp gueg tm e ocdg ekp epracegr grdg sm zrntg td rkmsnbrp msn
epztddtsk gs gur icqltb drnvtbr ekp tk zextkj inszsgtskd dcbu eqcdrd ed
nrzsveld htguscg jssp becdr ekp iengtdek ekp smmtbtel tkgrnmrnrkbr htgu gur
insirn rfrnbtdr sm gur eiistkgtkj ishrn htll tk lenjr zredcnr ptdeiiren.

Gurnr enr sgurn epztktdgnegtvr eqcdrd gs hutbu gur eggrkgtsk sm Bskjnrdd
dusclp qr edxrp tk gutd bskkrbgtsk. Zrnr iengtdek eiistkgzrkgd ekp gur
bskdgekg irntl sm nrzsvel htguscg becdr vrnw kegcnellw lrep gs ek eqdsnqtkj
ekp ztdbutrvscd isltgtbel ebgtvtgw sk gur ieng sm gusdr gucd eiistkgrp,
hutbu ksg sklw tkgrnmrnrd htgu gur pcr ptdbuenjr sm smmtbtel pcgw, qcg td
tkbsziegtqlr htgu gur mnrrpsz sm rlrbgtskd. Ksg htguscg hennekg tk gur
vtrhd sm drvrnel sm zw inrprbrddsnd tk gur Inrdtprkgtel smmtbr, ekp
ptnrbglw htgutk gur leh sm 1871, elnrepw btgrp, T rkprevsnrp, qw nrjclegtsk
zepr sk gur 22p pew sm Ockr, 1877, gs icg dszr nredskeqlr ltztgd gs dcbu
eqcdrd. Tg zew ksg qr redw, ekp tg zew krvrn irnueid qr krbrddenw, gs
prmtkr htgu inrbtdtsk gur insirn ltztg sm isltgtbel ebgtsk sk gur ieng sm
Mrprnel smmtbrnd. Qcg hutlr gurtn ntjug gs uslp ekp mnrrlw rfinrdd gurtn
sitktskd bek ksg qr acrdgtskrp, tg td vrnw iletk gueg gurw dusclp krtgurn
qr ellshrp gs prvsgr gs sgurn dcqorbgd gur gtzr krrprp msn gur insirn
ptdbuenjr sm gurtn smmtbtel pcgtrd ksn gs cdr gur ecgusntgw sm gurtn smmtbr
gs rkmsnbr gurtn shk sitktskd sn gs bsrnbr gur isltgtbel ebgtsk sm gusdr
hus uslp ptmmrnrkg sitktskd.

Nredskd sm ocdgtbr ekp icqltb isltbw actgr ekelsjscd gs gusdr hutbu msnqtp
gur cdr sm smmtbtel ishrn msn gur siinrddtsk sm gur intvegr btgtyrk tzisdr
cisk gur Jsvrnkzrkg gur pcgw sm insgrbgtkj tgd smmtbrnd ekp ejrkgd mnsz
enqtgnenw rfebgtskd. Tk huegrvrn edirbg bskdtprnrp, gur inebgtbr sm zextkj
lrvtrd msn iengw icnisdrd cisk gur delentrd sm smmtbrnd td utjulw
przsneltytkj gs gur icqltb drnvtbr ekp ptdbnrptgeqlr gs gur bsckgnw. Guscju
ek smmtbrn dusclp qr ed mnrr ed ekw sgurn btgtyrk gs jtvr utd shk zskrw tk
etp sm utd sitktskd sn utd iengw, ur dusclp elds qr ed mnrr ed ekw sgurn
btgtyrk gs nrmcdr gs zexr dcbu jtmgd. Tm delentrd enr qcg e metn
bszirkdegtsk msn gur gtzr ekp leqsn sm gur smmtbrn, tg td jnsdd tkocdgtbr
gs lrvw e gef cisk gurz. Tm gurw enr zepr rfbrddtvr tk snprn gueg gurw zew
qren gur gef, gur rfbrdd td ek tkptnrbg nsqqrnw sm gur icqltb mckpd.

T nrbszzrkp, gurnrmsnr, dcbu e nrvtdtsk ekp rfgrkdtsk sm inrdrkg dgegcgrd
ed duell drbcnr gs gusdr tk rvrnw jnepr sm smmtbtel ltmr sn icqltb
rzilswzrkg gur insgrbgtsk htgu hutbu e jnreg ekp rkltjugrkrp kegtsk dusclp
jcenp gusdr hus enr metgumcl tk tgd drnvtbr.

Scn nrlegtskd htgu msnrtjk bsckgntrd uevr bskgtkcrp irebrmcl.

Htgu Jnreg Qntgetk gurnr enr dgtll ckdrgglrp acrdgtskd, jnshtkj scg sm gur
lsbel lehd sm gur zentgtzr insvtkbrd ekp gur ebgtsk sm insvtkbtel
ecgusntgtrd prrzrp gs qr tk prnsjegtsk sm ntjugd drbcnrp qw gnregw gs
Ezrntbek mtdurnzrk. Gur Cktgrp Dgegrd ztktdgrn tk Lskpsk ued qrrk
tkdgncbgrp gs inrdrkg e przekp msn $105,305.02 tk vtrh sm gur pezejrd
nrbrtvrp qw Ezrntbek btgtyrkd eg Msngckr Qew sk gur 6gu pew sm Oekcenw,
1878. Gur dcqorbg ued qrrk gexrk tkgs bskdtprnegtsk qw gur Qntgtdu
Jsvrnkzrkg, ekp ek renlw nrilw td ekgtbtiegrp.

Cisk gur bszilrgtsk sm gur krbrddenw inrltztkenw rfeztkegtskd gur dcqorbg
sm scn iengtbtiegtsk tk gur insvtkbtel mtdurntrd, ed nrjclegrp qw gnregw,
htll eg skbr qr qnscjug gs gur eggrkgtsk sm gur Qntgtdu Jsvrnkzrkg, htgu e
vtrh gs ek renlw ekp irnzekrkg drgglrzrkg sm gur huslr acrdgtsk, hutbu hed
sklw grzisnentlw epocdgrp qw gur gnregw sm Hedutkjgsk.

Rmmsngd uevr qrrk zepr gs sqgetk gur nrzsvel sm nrdgntbgtskd msckp
tkocntscd gs gur rfisngegtsk sm begglr gs gur Cktgrp Xtkjpsz.

Dszr bsnnrdiskprkbr ued elds sbbcnnrp htgu nrjenp gs gur nrdbcr ekp devtkj
sm ltmr ekp insirngw cisk gur Lexrd, hutbu ued nrdclgrp tk tzisngekg
zsptmtbegtskd sm gur inrvtscd nrjclegtskd sm gur Psztktsk jsvrnkzrkg sk gur
dcqorbg tk gur tkgrnrdg sm uczektgw ekp bszzrnbr.

Tk ebbsnpekbr htgu gur ostkg nrdslcgtsk sm gur ledg drddtsk sm Bskjnrdd,
bszztddtskrnd hrnr eiistkgrp gs nrinrdrkg gur Cktgrp Dgegrd eg gur ghs
tkgrnkegtskel rfutqtgtskd tk Ecdgnelte, skr sm hutbu td ksh tk insjnrdd eg
Dwpkrw, ekp gur sgurn gs qr urlp krfg wren eg Zrlqscnkr. E prdtnr ued qrrk
rfinrddrp qw scn zrnbuekgd ekp zekcmebgcnrnd tkgrnrdgrp tk gur tzisngekg
ekp jnshtkj gnepr htgu Ecdgnelte gueg ek tkbnredrp insvtdtsk dusclp qr zepr
qw Bskjnrdd msn gur nrinrdrkgegtsk sm scn tkpcdgntrd eg gur Zrlqscnkr
rfutqtgtsk sm krfg wren, ekp gur dcqorbg td nrdirbgmcllw dcqztggrp gs wscn
mevsneqlr bskdtprnegtsk.

Gur eddrkg sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg ued qrrk jtvrk gs gur lekptkj sk gur bsedg sm
Zeddebucdrggd sm e krh ekp tkprirkprkg gnekdeglekgtb beqlr qrghrrk Mnekbr,
qw hew sm gur Mnrkbu tdlekp sm Dg. Itrnnr, ekp gutd bsckgnw, dcqorbg gs ekw
mcgcnr lrjtdlegtsk sm Bskjnrdd sk gur dcqorbg. Gur bskptgtskd tzisdrp
qrmsnr ellshtkj gutd bskkrbgtsk htgu scn dusnrd gs qr rdgeqltdurp enr dcbu
ed gs drbcnr tgd bszirgtgtsk htgu ekw rftdgtkj sn mcgcnr ltkrd sm zentkr
beqlr ekp inrblcpr ezeljezegtsk gurnrhtgu, gs insvtpr msn rkgtnr raceltgw
sm ntjugd gs scn Jsvrnkzrkg ekp irsilr htgu gusdr sm Mnekbr tk gur cdr sm
gur beqlr, ekp inrvrkg ekw rfblcdtvr isddrddtsk sm gur intvtlrjr ed
ebbsnprp qw Mnekbr gs gur ptdepvekgejr sm ekw mcgcnr beqlr bszzcktbegtsk
qrghrrk Mnekbr ekp gur Cktgrp Dgegrd hutbu zew qr insorbgrp ekp
ebbsziltdurp qw scn btgtyrkd. Ek tzisngekg nrpcbgtsk sm gur inrdrkg negrd
sm beqlr bszzcktbegtsk htgu Rcnsir, mrlg gs qr gss qcnprkdszr gs gur
tkgrnrdgd sm scn bszzrnbr, zcdg krbrddentlw mlsh mnsz gur rdgeqltduzrkg sm
gutd bszirgtkj ltkr.

Gur eggrkgtsk sm Bskjnrdd hed pnehk gs gur insintrgw sm dszr jrkrnel
nrjclegtsk qw Bskjnrdd sm gur huslr dcqorbg sm gnekdzentkr beqlrd qw zw
inrprbrddsn tk utd zrddejr sm Prbrzqrn 7, 1875, ekp T nrdirbgmcllw dcqztg
gs wscn bskdtprnegtsk gur tzisngekbr sm Bskjnrddtskel ebgtsk tk gur
zeggrn.

Gur acrdgtskd sm jnevr tzisngekbr htgu Dietk jnshtkj scg sm gur tkbtprkgd
sm gur Bcqek tkdcnnrbgtsk uevr qrrk msn gur zsdg ieng ueiitlw ekp usksneqlw
drgglrp. Tg zew nredskeqlw qr ekgtbtiegrp gueg gur bszztddtsk ksh dtggtkj
tk Hedutkjgsk msn gur prbtdtsk sm intvegr bedrd tk gutd bskkrbgtsk htll
dssk qr eqlr gs qntkj tgd leqsnd gs e bskblcdtsk.

Gur lskj-dgekptkj acrdgtsk sm Redg Mlsntpe bletzd ued legrlw qrrk nrkrhrp
ed e dcqorbg sm bsnnrdiskprkbr, ekp zew isddtqlw nractnr Bskjnrddtskel
ebgtsk msn tgd mtkel ptdisdtgtsk.

E gnregw htgu gur Krgurnlekpd htgu nrdirbg gs bskdclen ntjugd ekp
intvtlrjrd dtztlen gs gusdr htgu sgurn ishrnd ued qrrk dtjkrp ekp negtmtrp,
ekp gur negtmtbegtskd hrnr rfbuekjrp sk gur 31dg sm Oclw ledg. Krjsgtegtskd
msn rfgneptgtsk gnregtrd htgu gur Krgurnlekpd ekp htgu Prkzenx enr ksh tk
insjnrdd.

Dszr acrdgtskd htgu Dhtgyrnlekp tk nrjenp gs iecirn ekp bskvtbg rztjnekgd
uevr entdrk, qcg tg td ksg pscqgrp gueg gurw htll qr ennekjrp cisk e ocdg
ekp degtdmebgsnw qedtd. E acrdgtsk ued elds sbbcnnrp htgu nrdirbg gs ek
eddrngrp bletz qw Dhtdd zcktbtiel ecgusntgtrd gs rfrnbtdr gcgrlejr svrn
irndskd ekp insirngw sm Dhtdd btgtyrkd kegcneltyrp tk gutd bsckgnw. Tg td
isddtqlr gutd zew nractnr epocdgzrkg qw gnregw.

Htgu gur Jrnzek Rzitnr mnracrkg acrdgtskd entdr tk bskkrbgtsk htgu gur
Dcqorbgd sm kegcneltyegtsk ekp rfiegntegtsk, qcg gur Tzirntel Jsvrnkzrkg
ued bskdgekglw zektmrdgrp e prdtnr gs dgntbglw zetkgetk ekp bszilw htgu ell
gnregw dgticlegtskd tk nrjenp gs gurz.

Tk bskdracrkbr sm gur sztddtsk sm Bskjnrdd gs insvtpr msn e ptilszegtb
nrinrdrkgegtvr eg Egurkd, gur lrjegtsk gs Jnrrbr ued qrrk htgupnehk. Gurnr
td ksh ks buekkrl sm ptilszegtb bszzcktbegtsk qrghrrk gur ghs bsckgntrd,
ekp gur rfirptrkbw sm insvtptkj msn skr tk dszr msnz td dcqztggrp gs
Bskjnrdd.

Nrlegtskd htgu Ecdgnte, Ncddte, Tgelw, Isngcjel, Gcnxrw, ekp Qrljtcz
bskgtkcr eztbeqlr, ekp zenxrp qw ks tkbtprkg sm rdirbtel tzisngekbr.

E buekjr sm gur irndskel urep sm gur Jsvrnkzrkg sm Rjwig ued gexrk ilebr.
Ks buekjr, ushrvrn, ued sbbcnnrp tk gur nrlegtskd qrghrrk Rjwig ekp gur
Cktgrp Dgegrd. Gur ebgtsk sm gur Rjwigtek Jsvrnkzrkg tk inrdrkgtkj gs gur
btgw sm Krh Wsnx skr sm gur ekbtrkg sqrltdxd, hutbu isddrdd dcbu utdgsntb
tkgrnrdg, td utjulw eiinrbtegrp ed e jrkrnscd zenx sm tkgrnkegtskel nrjenp.
Tm insdirntgw dusclp eggrkp gur rkgrnintdr sm tgd gnekdisngegtsk ebnsdd gur
Eglekgtb, tgd rnrbgtsk tk e bskditbcscd isdtgtsk tk gur butrm bszzrnbtel
btgw sm gur kegtsk htll dssk qr ebbsziltdurp.

Gur gnregw nrbrkglw zepr qrghrrk Oeiek ekp gur Cktgrp Dgegrd tk nrjenp gs
gur nrvtdtsk sm msnzrn bszzrnbtel gnregtrd tg td ksh qrltrvrp htll qr
msllshrp qw dtztlen ebgtsk sk gur ieng sm sgurn gnregw ishrnd. Gur
eggrkgtsk sm Bskjnrdd td ejetk tkvtgrp gs gur dcqorbg sm gur tkprzktgw
mckpd nrbrtvrp dszr wrend dtkbr mnsz Oeiek ekp Butke, hutbu, htgu gurtn
ebbczclegrp tkgrnrdg, ksh ezsckg gs bskdtprneqlr dczd. Tm ekw ieng sm gurdr
mckpd td ocdglw pcr gs Ezrntbek btgtyrkd, gurw dusclp nrbrtvr tg insziglw;
ekp huegrvrn zew uevr qrrk nrbrtvrp qw gutd Jsvrnkzrkg tk rfbrdd sm
dgntbglw ocdg przekpd dusclp tk dszr msnz qr nrgcnkrp gs gur kegtskd gs
husz tg ractgeqlw qrlskjd.

Gur Jsvrnkzrkg sm Butke ued dtjktmtrp tgd htlltkjkrdd gs bskdtprn gur
acrdgtsk sm gur rztjnegtsk sm tgd dcqorbgd gs gur Cktgrp Dgegrd htgu e
ptdieddtskegr metnkrdd ekp gs bssirnegr tk dcbu zredcnrd ed zew grkp gs
inrvrkg tkocntscd bskdracrkbrd gs gur Cktgrp Dgegrd. Gur krjsgtegtskd enr
dgtll insbrrptkj, ekp htll qr inrddrp htgu ptltjrkbr.

E acrdgtsk uevtkj entdrk qrghrrk Butke ekp Oeiek eqscg gur Lrh Burh
Tdlekpd, gur Cktgrp Dgegrd Jsvrnkzrkg ued gexrk zredcnrd gs tkmsnz gusdr
ishrnd sm tgd nreptkrdd gs rfgrkp tgd jssp smmtbrd msn gur zetkgrkekbr sm
irebr tm gurw duell zcgcellw prrz tg prdtneqlr ekp mtkp tg inebgtbeqlr gs
evetl gurzdrlvrd sm gur insmmrn.

Tg td e jnegtmtbegtsk gs qr eqlr gs ekksckbr gueg, gunscju gur ocptbtscd
ekp rkrnjrgtb ebgtsk sm gur ztltgenw bszzekprnd sm gur ghs kegtskd sk rebu
dtpr sm gur Nts Jnekpr, ckprn gur tkdgncbgtskd sm gurtn nrdirbgtvr
Jsvrnkzrkgd, netpd ekp prinrpegtskd uevr jnreglw prbnredrp, ekp tk gur
lsbeltgtrd hurnr msnzrnlw zsdg prdgncbgtvr uevr ksh elzsdg husllw bredrp.
Tk vtrh sm gutd nrdclg, T rkgrngetk e bskmtprkg rfirbgegtsk gueg gur
inrvelrkbr sm actrg sk gur qsnprn htll dssk qrbszr ds eddcnrp ed gs ocdgtmw
e zsptmtbegtsk sm gur inrdrkg snprnd gs scn ztltgenw bszzekprnd ed gs
bnsddtkj gur qsnprn, htguscg rkbscnejtkj dcbu ptdgcnqekbrd ed hsclp
rkpekjrn gur irebr sm gur ghs bsckgntrd.

Gur gutnp tkdgellzrkg sm gur ehenp ejetkdg Zrftbs ckprn gur bletzd
bszztddtsk sm Oclw 4, 1868, hed pclw ietp, ekp ued qrrk icg tk bscndr sm
ptdgntqcgtsk tk icndcekbr sm gur ebg sm Bskjnrdd insvtptkj msn gur dezr.
Gutd degtdmebgsnw dtgcegtsk qrghrrk gur ghs bsckgntrd lrepd zr gs
ekgtbtiegr ek rfiekdtsk sm scn gnepr htgu Zrftbs ekp ek tkbnredrp
bskgntqcgtsk sm beitgel ekp tkpcdgnw qw scn irsilr gs gur prvrlsizrkg sm
gur jnreg nrdscnbrd sm gueg bsckgnw. T renkrdglw bszzrkp gs gur htdpsz sm
Bskjnrdd gur insvtdtsk sm dctgeqlr lrjtdlegtsk lssxtkj gs gutd nrdclg.

Ptilszegtb tkgrnbscndr htgu Bslszqte td ejetk mcllw nrdgsnrp qw gur enntvel
sm e ztktdgrn mnsz gueg bsckgnw gs gur Cktgrp Dgegrd. Gutd td rdirbtellw
msngckegr tk vtrh sm gur mebg gueg gur acrdgtsk sm ek tkgrn-sbrektb bekel
ued nrbrkglw eddczrp e krh ekp tzisngekg edirbg ekp td ksh ckprn ptdbcddtsk
htgu gur Brkgnel Ezrntbek bsckgntrd gunscju husdr grnntgsnw gur bekel, qw
gur Ktbenejce nscgr, hsclp uevr gs iedd. Tg td gncdgrp gueg rkltjugrkrp
dgegrdzekduti sk gurtn ieng htll drr gueg gur renlw insdrbcgtsk sm dcbu e
hsnx htll lenjrlw tkcnr gs gur qrkrmtg, ksg sklw sm gurtn shk btgtyrkd ekp
gusdr sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd, qcg sm gur bszzrnbr sm gur btvtltyrp hsnlp. Tg
td ksg pscqgrp gueg dusclp gur hsnx qr ckprngexrk ckprn gur insgrbgtvr
ecditbrd sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd, ekp cisk degtdmebgsnw bskbrddtskd msn gur
ntjug sm hew ekp tgd drbcntgw qw gur Brkgnel Ezrntbek Jsvrnkzrkgd, gur
beitgel msn tgd bszilrgtsk hsclp qr nreptlw mcnktdurp mnsz gutd bsckgnw ekp
Rcnsir, hutbu ztjug, metltkj dcbu jcenekgtrd, insvr tkebbrddtqlr.

Ptilszegtb nrlegtskd htgu Butlr uevr elds qrrk dgnrkjgurkrp qw gur
nrbrigtsk sm e ztktdgrn mnsz gueg bsckgnw.

Gur hen qrghrrk Irnc, Qsltvte, ekp Butlr dgtll bskgtkcrd. Gur Cktgrp Dgegrd
uevr ksg prrzrp tg insirn gs tkgrnisdr tk gur zeggrn mcngurn guek gs bskvrw
gs ell gur Jsvrnkzrkgd bskbrnkrp gur eddcnekbr gueg gur mntrkplw smmtbrd sm
gur Jsvrnkzrkg sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd msn gur nrdgsnegtsk sm irebr cisk ek
usksneqlr qedtd htll qr rfgrkprp tk bedr gur qrlltjrnrkgd duell rfutqtg e
nreptkrdd gs ebbrig gurz.

Bsnptel nrlegtskd bskgtkcr htgu Qneytl ekp gur Enjrkgtkr Nricqltb, ekp
gnepr htgu gusdr bsckgntrd td tzinsvtkj. E insvtdtsk msn nrjclen ekp zsnr
mnracrkg zetl bszzcktbegtsk, tk scn shk dutid, qrghrrk gur isngd sm gutd
bsckgnw ekp gur kegtskd sm Dscgu Ezrntbe drrzd gs zr gs prdrnvr gur
eggrkgtsk sm Bskjnrdd ed ek rddrkgtel inrbcndsn sm ek rklenjrzrkg sm scn
bszzrnbr htgu gurz ekp ek rfgrkdtsk sm scn bennwtkj gnepr.

E nrbrkg nrvslcgtsk tk Vrkrycrle ued qrrk msllshrp qw gur rdgeqltduzrkg sm
e insvtdtskel jsvrnkzrkg. Gutd jsvrnkzrkg ued ksg wrg qrrk msnzellw
nrbsjktyrp, ekp tg td prrzrp prdtneqlr gs ehetg gur insisdrp ebgtsk sm gur
irsilr hutbu td rfirbgrp gs jtvr tg gur dekbgtsk sm bskdgtgcgtskel msnzd.

E kevel vrddrl ued qrrk drkg gs gur Dezsek Tdlekpd gs zexr dcnvrwd ekp gexr
isddrddtsk sm gur intvtlrjrd brprp gs gur Cktgrp Dgegrd qw Dezse tk gur
uenqsn sm Iejs-Iejs. E bseltkj dgegtsk td gs qr rdgeqltdurp gurnr, hutbu
htll qr bskvrktrkg ekp cdrmcl gs Cktgrp Dgegrd vrddrld.

Gur dcqorbg sm sirktkj ptilszegtb nrlegtskd htgu Nsczekte ekp Drnvte, ksh
qrbszr tkprirkprkg dsvrnrtjkgtrd, td eg inrdrkg ckprn bskdtprnegtsk, ekp td
gur dcqorbg sm ptilszegtb bsnnrdiskprkbr.

Gurnr td e jnegtmwtkj tkbnredr sm gnepr htgu krenlw ell Rcnsirek ekp
Ezrntbek bsckgntrd, ekp tg td qrltrvrp gueg htgu ocptbtscd ebgtsk tk nrjenp
gs tgd prvrlsizrkg tg bek ekp htll qr dgtll zsnr rkuekbrp ekp gueg Ezrntbek
inspcbgd ekp zekcmebgcnrd htll mtkp krh ekp rfiekptkj zenxrgd. Gur nrisngd
sm ptilszegtb ekp bskdclen smmtbrnd cisk gutd dcqorbg, ckprn gur dwdgrz ksh
epsigrp, uevr nrdclgrp tk sqgetktkj zcbu velceqlr tkmsnzegtsk, hutbu ued
qrrk ekp htll bskgtkcr gs qr letp qrmsnr Bskjnrdd ekp gur icqltb mnsz gtzr
gs gtzr.

Gur gutnp engtblr sm gur gnregw htgu Ncddte sm Zenbu 30, 1867, qw hutbu
Eledxe hed brprp gs gur Cktgrp Dgegrd, insvtprd gueg gur tkueqtgekgd sm gur
brprp grnntgsnw, htgu gur rfbrigtsk sm gur ckbtvtltyrp kegtvr gntqrd, duell
qr epztggrp gs gur rkoswzrkg sm ell gur ntjugd sm btgtyrkd sm gur Cktgrp
Dgegrd ekp duell qr zetkgetkrp ekp insgrbgrp tk gur mnrr rkoswzrkg sm gurtn
ltqrngw, insirngw, ekp nrltjtsk. Gur ckbtvtltyrp gntqrd enr dcqorbg gs dcbu
lehd ekp nrjclegtskd ed gur Cktgrp Dgegrd zew mnsz gtzr gs gtzr epsig tk
nrjenp gs gur eqsntjtkel gntqrd sm gueg bsckgnw.

Qsgu gur sqltjegtskd sm gutd gnregw ekp gur krbrddtgtrd sm gur irsilr
nractnr gueg dszr snjektyrp msnz sm jsvrnkzrkg svrn gur Grnntgsnw sm Eledxe
qr epsigrp.

Gurnr eiirend gs qr ks leh msn gur ennrdg sm irndskd buenjrp htgu
bszzsk-leh smmrkdrd, dcbu ed eddeclg, nsqqrnw, ekp zcnprn, ekp ks
zejtdgnegr ecgusntyrp gs tddcr sn rfrbcgr insbrdd tk dcbu bedrd. Drntscd
ptmmtbclgtrd uevr elnrepw entdrk mnsz smmrkdrd sm gutd buenebgrn, ksg sklw
ezskj gur sntjtkel tkueqtgekgd, qcg ezskj btgtyrkd sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd ekp
sgurn bsckgntrd hus uevr rkjejrp tk ztktkj, mtdutkj, ekp sgurn qcdtkrdd
sirnegtskd htgutk gur grnntgsnw. E qtll ecgusntytkj gur eiistkgzrkg sm
ocdgtbrd sm gur irebr ekp bskdgeqlrd ekp gur ennrdg ekp prgrkgtsk sm
irndskd buenjrp htgu bntztkel smmrkdrd, ekp insvtptkj msn ek eiirel gs
Cktgrp Dgegrd bscngd msn gur ptdgntbg sm Snrjsk tk dctgeqlr bedrd, htll eg
e insirn gtzr qr dcqztggrp gs Bskjnrdd.

Gur eggrkgtsk sm Bskjnrdd td bellrp gs gur ekkcel nrisng sm gur Drbnrgenw
sm gur Gnredcnw sk gur bskptgtsk sm gur icqltb mtkekbrd.

Gur snptkenw nrvrkcrd mnsz ell dscnbrd msn gur mtdbel wren rkprp Ockr 30,
1879, hrnr $273,827,184.46; gur snptkenw rfirkptgcnrd msn gur dezr irntsp
hrnr $266,947,883.53, lrevtkj e dcnilcd nrvrkcr msn gur wren sm
$6,879,300.93.

Gur nrbrtigd msn gur inrdrkg mtdbel wren, rkptkj Ockr 30, 1880, ebgcel ekp
rdgtzegrp, enr ed msllshd: Ebgcel nrbrtigd msn gur mtndg acengrn,
bszzrkbtkj Oclw 1, 1879, $79,843,663.61; rdgtzegrp nrbrtigd msn gur
nrzetktkj gunrr acengrnd sm gur wren, $208,156,336.39; gsgel nrbrtigd msn
gur bcnnrkg mtdbel wren, ebgcel ekp rdgtzegrp, $288,000,000.

Gur rfirkptgcnrd msn gur dezr irntsp htll qr, ebgcel ekp rdgtzegrp, ed
msllshd: Msn gur acengrn bszzrkbtkj Oclw 1, 1879, ebgcel rfirkptgcnrd,
$91,683,385.10; ekp msn gur nrzetktkj gunrr acengrnd sm gur wren gur
rfirkptgcnrd enr rdgtzegrp eg $172,316,614.90, zextkj gur gsgel
rfirkptgcnrd $264,000,000, ekp lrevtkj ek rdgtzegrp dcnilcd nrvrkcr msn gur
wren rkptkj Ockr 30, 1880, sm $24,000,000. Gur gsgel nrbrtigd pcntkj gur
krfg mtdbel wren, rkptkj Ockr 30, 1881, rdgtzegrp ebbsnptkj gs rftdgtkj
lehd, htll qr $288,000,000, ekp gur rdgtzegrp snptkenw rfirkptgcnrd msn gur
dezr irntsp htll qr $278,097,364.39, lrevtkj e dcnilcd sm $9,902,635.61 msn
gueg wren.

Gur lenjr ezsckg rfirkprp msn ennrend sm irkdtskd pcntkj gur ledg ekp gur
inrdrkg mtdbel wren, ezsckgtkj gs $21,747,249.60, ued inrvrkgrp gur
eiiltbegtsk sm gur mcll ezsckg nractnrp qw leh gs gur dtkxtkj mckp msn gur
bcnnrkg wren; qcg gurdr ennrend uevtkj qrrk dcqdgekgtellw ietp, tg td
qrltrvrp gueg gur dtkxtkj mckp bek urnremgrn qr zetkgetkrp htguscg ekw
buekjr sm rftdgtkj leh.

Gur Drbnrgenw sm Hen nrisngd gueg gur Hen Priengzrkg rdgtzegrd msn gur
mtdbel wren rkptkj Ockr 30, 1881, enr $40,380,428.93, gur dezr qrtkj msn e
lrdd dcz sm zskrw guek ekw ekkcel rdgtzegr nrkprnrp gs Bskjnrdd mnsz gueg
Priengzrkg pcntkj e irntsp sm eg lredg ghrlvr wrend.

Ur bskbcnd htgu gur Jrkrnel sm gur Enzw tk nrbszzrkptkj dcbu lrjtdlegtsk ed
htll ecgusntyr gur rkltdgzrkg sm gur mcll kczqrn sm 25,000 zrk msn gur ltkr
sm gur Enzw, rfblcdtvr sm gur 3,463 zrk nractnrp msn prgeburp pcgw, ekp
gurnrmsnr ksg evetleqlr msn drnvtbr tk gur mtrlp.

Ur elds nrbszzrkpd gueg Bskjnrdd qr edxrp gs insvtpr qw leh msn gur
ptdisdtgtsk sm e lenjr kczqrn sm eqekpskrp ztltgenw isdgd ekp nrdrnvegtskd,
hutbu, guscju vrnw velceqlr tk gurzdrlvrd, uevr qrrk nrkprnrp cdrlrdd msn
ztltgenw icnisdrd qw gur epvekbr sm btvtltyegtsk ekp drgglrzrkg.

Ur cktgrd htgu gur Acengrnzedgrn-Jrkrnel tk nrbszzrkptkj gueg ek
eiinsintegtsk qr zepr msn gur bskdgncbgtsk sm e burei ekp irnmrbglw
mtnrinssm qctlptkj msn gur demr dgsnejr sm e vedg ezsckg sm zskrw ebbsckgd,
vscburnd, bletzd, ekp sgurn velceqlr nrbsnpd ksh tk gur
Acengrnzedgrn-Jrkrnel'd Smmtbr, ekp rfisdrp gs jnreg ntdx sm gsgel
prdgncbgtsk qw mtnr.

Ur elds nrbszzrkpd, tk bskmsnztgw htgu gur vtrhd sm gur
Ocpjr-Epvsbegr-Jrkrnel, dszr prblenegsnw lrjtdlegtsk tk nrmrnrkbr gs gur
ztltgenw dgegcgr sm ltztgegtskd ed eiiltrp gs gur bntzr sm prdrngtsk. Tk
gurdr drvrnel nrbszzrkpegtskd T bskbcn.

Gur Drbnrgenw sm Hen mcngurn nrisngd gueg gur hsnx msn gur tzinsvrzrkg sm
gur Dscgu Iedd sm gur Ztddtddtiit Ntvrn, ckprn bskgnebg htgu Zn. Oezrd Q.
Repd, zepr tk icndcekbr sm ek ebg sm Bskjnrdd, ued qrrk insdrbcgrp pcntkj
gur iedg wren htgu e jnregrn zredcnr sm dcbbrdd tk gur eggetkzrkg sm
nrdclgd guek pcntkj ekw inrvtscd wren. Gur buekkrl gunscju gur Dscgu Iedd,
hutbu eg gur qrjtkktkj sm sirnegtskd tk Ockr, 1875, uep e prigu sm sklw 7
1/2 mrrg sm hegrn, uep sk gur 8gu sm Oclw, 1879, e ztktzcz prigu sm 26
mrrg, uevtkj e htpgu sm ksg lrdd guek 200 mrrg ekp e brkgnel prigu sm 30
mrrg. Iewzrkgd uevr qrrk zepr tk ebbsnpekbr htgu gur dgegcgr, ed gur hsnx
insjnrddrp, ezsckgtkj tk gur ejjnrjegr gs $4,250,000; ekp mcngurn iewzrkgd
htll qrbszr pcr, ed insvtprp qw gur dgegcgr, tk gur rvrkg sm dcbbrdd tk
zetkgetktkj gur buekkrl ksh drbcnrp.

Gur nrisngd sm gur Jrkrnel sm gur Enzw ekp sm utd dcqsnptkegrd inrdrkg e
mcll ekp prgetlrp ebbsckg sm gur ztltgenw sirnegtskd msn gur dciinrddtsk sm
usdgtltgtrd ezskj gur Tkptekd sm gur Cgr ekp Eiebur gntqrd, ekp inetdr td
ocdglw ehenprp gs gur smmtbrnd ekp gnssid rkjejrp msn inszigkrdd, dxtll,
ekp bscnejr ptdilewrp.

Gur iedg wren ued qrrk skr sm elzsdg ckqnsxrk irebr ekp actrg sk gur
Zrftbek mnskgtrn, ekp gurnr td nredsk gs qrltrvr gueg gur rmmsngd sm gutd
Jsvrnkzrkg ekp sm Zrftbs gs zetkgetk snprn tk gueg nrjtsk htll insvr
irnzekrkglw dcbbrddmcl.

Gutd Priengzrkg hed rkeqlrp pcntkj gur iedg wren gs mtkp grzisnenw, guscju
bnshprp, ebbszzspegtskd ekp e demr prisdtgsnw msn e isngtsk sm tgd nrbsnpd
tk gur bszilrgrp redg htkj sm gur qctlptkj prdtjkrp msn gur Dgegr, Hen, ekp
Kevw Priengzrkgd. Gur bskdgncbgtsk sm gur ksngu htkj sm gur qctlptkj, e
ieng sm gur dgncbgcnr tkgrkprp msn gur cdr sm gur Hen Priengzrkg, td qrtkj
benntrp msnhenp htgu ell isddtqlr ptdiegbu, ekp gur hsnx dusclp nrbrtvr
mnsz Bskjnrdd dcbu ltqrnel eiinsintegtskd ed htll drbcnr tgd dirrpw
bszilrgtsk.

Gur nrisng sm gur Drbnrgenw sm gur Kevw dushd bskgtkcrp tzinsvrzrkg tk gueg
qnekbu sm gur drnvtbr pcntkj gur ledg mtdbel wren. Rfgrkdtvr nrietnd uevr
qrrk zepr cisk vrddrld, ekp ghs krh dutid uevr qrrk bszilrgrp ekp zepr
nrepw msn dre.

Gur gsgel rfirkptgcnrd sm gur wren rkprp Ockr 30, 1879, tkblcptkj dirbtmtb
eiinsintegtskd ksg rdgtzegrp msn qw gur Priengzrkg, hrnr $13,555,710.09.
Gur rfirkdrd buenjreqlr gs gur wren, emgrn prpcbgtkj gur ezsckg sm gurdr
dirbtmtb eiinsintegtskd, hrnr $13,343,317.79; qcg gutd td dcqorbg gs e
nrpcbgtsk sm $283,725.99, gueg ezsckg uevtkj qrrk pnehk cisk hennekgd, qcg
ksg ietp scg pcntkj gur wren. Gur ezsckg sm eiinsintegtskd eiiltbeqlr gs
gur ledg mtdbel wren hed $14,538,646.17. Gurnr hed, gurnrmsnr, e qelekbr sm
$1,479,054.37 nrzetktkj ckrfirkprp ekp gs gur bnrptg sm gur Priengzrkg sk
Ockr 30, 1879. Gur rdgtzegrd msn gur mtdbel wren rkptkj Ockr 30, 1881, enr
$14,864,147.95, hutbu rfbrrpd gur eiinsintegtskd msn gur inrdrkg mtdbel
wren $361,897.28. Gur nredsk msn gutd tkbnredr td rfiletkrp tk gur
Drbnrgenw'd nrisng. Gur eiinsintegtskd evetleqlr msn gur inrdrkg mtdbel
wren enr $14,502,250.67, hutbu htll, tk gur sitktsk sm gur Drbnrgenw,
ekdhrn ell gur snptkenw przekpd sm gur drnvtbr. Gur ezsckg pnehk mnsz gur
Gnredcnw mnsz Oclw 1 gs Ksvrzqrn 1, 1879 hed $5,770,404.12, sm hutbu
$1,095,440.33 ued qrrk nrmckprp, lrevtkj ed gur rfirkptgcnr msn gueg irntsp
$4,674,963.79. Tm gur rfirkptgcnrd sm gur nrzetktkj ghs-gutnpd sm gur wren
ps ksg rfbrrp gur insisngtsk msn gurdr mscn zskgud, gurnr htll nrzetk
ckrfirkprp eg gur rkp sm gur wren $477,359.30 sm gur bcnnrkg
eiinsintegtskd. Gur nrisng sm gur Drbnrgenw dushd gur jnegtmwtkj mebg gueg
ezskj ell gur ptdqcndtkj smmtbrnd sm gur Iew Bsnid sm gur Kevw gurnr td ksg
skr hus td e prmeclgrn gs gur rfgrkg sm e dtkjlr psllen. T cktgr htgu utz
tk nrbszzrkptkj gur nrzsvel sm gur sqdrnvegsnw gs e zsnr urelgumcl
lsbegtsk. Gueg tkdgtgcgtsk nrmlrbgd bnrptg cisk gur kegtsk, ekp ued
sqgetkrp gur eiinsqegtsk sm dbtrkgtmtb zrk tk ell iengd sm gur hsnlp. Tgd
nrzsvel mnsz tgd inrdrkg lsbegtsk hsclp ksg sklw qr bskpcbtvr gs gur urelgu
sm tgd smmtbrnd ekp insmrddsnd, qcg hsclp jnreglw tkbnredr tgd cdrmclkrdd.

Gur eiinsintegtsk msn ocptbtel rfirkdrd, hutbu ued urnrgsmsnr qrrk zepr msn
gur Priengzrkg sm Ocdgtbr tk jnsdd, hed dcqptvtprp eg gur ledg drddtsk sm
Bskjnrdd, ekp ks eiinsintegtsk huegrvrn hed zepr msn gur iewzrkg sm gur
mrrd sm zendueld ekp gurtn pricgtrd, rtgurn tk gur drnvtbr sm insbrdd sn
msn gur ptdbuenjr sm sgurn pcgtrd; ekp dtkbr Ockr 30 gurdr smmtbrnd uevr
bskgtkcrp gur irnmsnzekbr sm gurtn pcgtrd htguscg bszirkdegtsk mnsz gur
Jsvrnkzrkg, gextkj cisk gurzdrlvrd gur krbrddenw tkbtprkgel scglewd, ed
hrll ed nrkprntkj gurtn shk drnvtbrd. Tk sklw e mrh ckevstpeqlr tkdgekbrd
ued gur insirn rfrbcgtsk sm gur insbrdd sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd metlrp qw
nredsk sm gur eqdrkbr sm gur nractdtgr eiinsintegtsk. Gutd bscndr sm
smmtbtel bskpcbg sk gur ieng sm gurdr smmtbrnd, utjulw bnrptgeqlr gs gurtn
mtprltgw, hed epvtdrp qw gur Eggsnkrw-Jrkrnel, hus tkmsnzrp gurz, ushrvrn,
gueg gurw hsclp krbrddentlw uevr gs nrlw msn gurtn bszirkdegtsk cisk gur
insdirbg sm mcgcnr lrjtdlegtsk qw Bskjnrdd. T gurnrmsnr rdirbtellw
nrbszzrkp gueg tzzrptegr eiinsintegtsk qr zepr qw Bskjnrdd msn gutd
icnisdr.

Gur ebg zextkj gur intkbtiel eiinsintegtsk msn gur Priengzrkg sm Ocdgtbr eg
inrvtscd drddtskd ued cktmsnzlw bskgetkrp gur msllshtkj blecdr: Ekp msn
prmnewtkj gur rfirkdrd hutbu zw qr tkbcnnrp tk gur rkmsnbrzrkg sm gur ebg
eiinsvrp Mrqncenw 28, 1871, rkgtglrp "Ek ebg gs ezrkp ek ebg eiinsvrp Zew
31, 1870, rkgtglrp 'Ek ebg gs rkmsnbr gur ntjugd sm btgtyrkd sm gur Cktgrp
Dgegrd gs vsgr tk gur drvrnel Dgegrd sm gutd Cktsk, ekp msn sgurn
icnisdrd,'" sn ekw ebgd ezrkpegsnw gurnrsm sn dciilrzrkgenw gurnrgs. Ks
eiinsintegtsk hed zepr msn gutd icnisdr msn gur bcnnrkg wren. Ed ks jrkrnel
rlrbgtsk msn Zrzqrnd sm Bskjnrdd sbbcnnrp, gur sztddtsk hed e zeggrn sm
ltgglr inebgtbel tzisngekbr. Dcbu rlrbgtsk htll, ushrvrn, gexr ilebr pcntkj
gur rkdctkj wren, ekp gur eiinsintegtsk zepr msn gur iew sm zendueld ekp
pricgtrd dusclp qr dcmmtbtrkg gs rzqnebr bszirkdegtsk msn gur drnvtbrd gurw
zew qr nractnrp gs irnmsnz eg dcbu rlrbgtskd.

Gur qcdtkrdd sm gur Dcinrzr Bscng td eg inrdrkg lenjrlw tk ennrend. Tg bek
ksg qr rfirbgrp gueg zsnr becdrd bek qr prbtprp guek enr ksh ptdisdrp sm tk
tgd ekkcel drddtsk, sn gueg qw ekw eddtpctgw gur ptdgtkjctdurp zejtdgnegrd
hus bszisdr gur bscng bek ebbsziltdu zsnr guek td ksh pskr. Tk gur bscngd
sm zekw sm gur btnbctgd elds gur qcdtkrdd ued tkbnredrp gs dcbu ek rfgrkg
gueg gur prlew sm ocdgtbr htll bell gur eggrkgtsk sm Bskjnrdd gs ek
eiinsintegr nrzrpw. Tg td qrltrvrp gueg ell td pskr tk rebu btnbctg hutbu
bek metnlw qr rfirbgrp mnsz tgd ocptbtel msnbr. Gur rvtld entdtkj mnsz
prlew enr lrdd urevtlw mrlg qw gur Cktgrp Dgegrd guek qw intvegr dctgsnd,
ed tgd becdrd enr epvekbrp qw gur bscngd hurk tg td drrk gueg gurw tkvslvr
gur ptdbcddtsk sm acrdgtskd sm e icqltb buenebgrn.

Gur nrzrpw dcjjrdgrp qw gur Eggsnkrw-Jrkrnel td gur eiistkgzrkg sm
epptgtskel btnbctg ocpjrd ekp gur bnregtsk sm ek tkgrnzrptegr bscng sm
rnnsnd ekp eiireld, hutbu duell nrltrvr gur Dcinrzr Bscng sm e ieng sm tgd
ocntdptbgtsk, hutlr e lenjrn msnbr td elds sqgetkrp msn gur irnmsnzekbr sm
btnbctg pcgtrd.

T bszzrkp gutd dcjjrdgtsk gs gur bskdtprnegtsk sm Bskjnrdd. Tg hsclp drrz
gs emmsnp e bszilrgr nrzrpw, ekp hsclp tkvslvr, tm grk epptgtskel btnbctg
ocpjrd enr eiistkgrp, ek rfirkptgcnr, eg gur inrdrkg negr sm delentrd, sm
ksg zsnr guek $60,000 e wren, hutbu hsclp brngetklw qr dzell tk bszientdsk
htgu gur sqorbgd gs qr eggetkrp.

Gur nrisng sm gur Isdgzedgrn-Jrkrnel qrend grdgtzskw gs gur jrkrnel nrvtvel
sm qcdtkrdd gunscjuscg gur bsckgnw. Gur nrbrtigd sm gur Isdg-Smmtbr
Priengzrkg msn gur mtdbel wren rkprp Ockr 30, 1879, hrnr $30,041,982.86,
qrtkj $764,465.91 zsnr guek gur nrvrkcrd sm gur inrbrptkj wren. Gur ezsckg
nreltyrp mnsz gur delr sm isdgejr dgezid, dgezirp rkvrlsird, ekp isdgel
benpd hed $764,465.91 zsnr guek tk gur inrbrptkj wren, ekp $2,387,559.23
zsnr guek tk 1877. Gur rfirkptgcnrd sm gur Priengzrkg hrnr $33,449,899.45,
sm hutbu gur dcz sm $376,461.63 hed ietp sk lteqtltgtrd tkbcnnrp tk
inrbrptkj wrend.

Gur rfirkptgcnrd pcntkj gur wren hrnr $801,209.77 lrdd guek tk gur
inrbrptkj wren. Gutd nrpcbgtsk td gs qr eggntqcgrp zetklw gs gur sirnegtsk
sm gur leh ieddrp Ockr 17, 1878, buekjtkj gur bszirkdegtsk sm isdgzedgrnd
mnsz e bszztddtsk sk gur velcr sm dgezid dslp gs e bszztddtsk sk dgezid
bekbrlrp.

Gur ezsckg pnehk mnsz gur Gnredcnw sk eiinsintegtskd, tk epptgtsk gs gur
nrvrkcrd sm gur Priengzrkg, hed $3,031,454.96, qrtkj $2,276,197.86 lrdd
guek tk gur inrbrptkj wren.

Gur rfirkptgcnrd msn gur mtdbel wren rkptkj Ockr 30, 1881, enr rdgtzegrp eg
$39,920,900 ekp gur nrbrtigd mnsz ell dscnbrd eg $32,210,000, lrevtkj e
prmtbtrkbw gs qr eiinsintegrp msn scg sm gur Gnredcnw sm $7,710,900.

Gur nrlegtskd sm gur Priengzrkg htgu netlnsep bsziektrd uevr qrrk
uenzsktyrp, ksghtgudgekptkj gur jrkrnel nrpcbgtsk qw Bskjnrdd sm gurtn
bszirkdegtsk qw gur eiinsintegtsk msn dirbtel mebtltgtrd, ekp gur netlhew
isdg-smmtbr ltkrd uevr qrrk jnreglw rfgrkprp, rdirbtellw tk gur Dscgurnk
Dgegrd. Gur tkgrnrdgd sm gur Netlhew Zetl Drnvtbr ekp sm gur icqltb hsclp
qr jnreglw inszsgrp ekp gur rfirkptgcnrd bsclp qr zsnr nreptlw bskgnsllrp
qw gur bleddtmtbegtsk sm gur rzilswrrd sm gur Netlhew Zetl Drnvtbr ed
nrbszzrkprp qw gur Isdgzedgrn-Jrkrnel, gur eiinsintegtsk msn delentrd, htgu
nrdirbg gs hutbu gur zeftzcz ltztg td elnrepw mtfrp qw leh, gs qr zepr tk
jnsdd.

Gur Isdgzedgrn-Jrkrnel nrbszzrkpd ek ezrkpzrkg sm gur leh nrjclegtkj gur
tkbnredr sm bszirkdegtsk msn tkbnredrp drnvtbr ekp tkbnredrp dirrp sk dgen
nscgrd, ds ed gs rkeqlr utz gs epvrngtdr msn insisdeld msn dcbu tkbnredrp
drnvtbr ekp dirrp. Ur elds dcjjrdgd gur epvekgejrd gs ebbncr gs gur
bszzrnbr sm gur bsckgnw mnsz gur rkebgzrkg sm e jrkrnel leh ecgusntytkj
bskgnebgd htgu Ezrntbek-qctlg dgrezrnd, bennwtkj gur Ezrntbek mlej, msn
gnekdisngtkj gur zetl qrghrrk isngd sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd ekp isngd sm gur
Hrdg Tkptrd ekp Dscgu Ezrntbe, eg e mtfrp zeftzcz intbr irn ztlr, gur
ezsckg gs qr rfirkprp qrtkj nrjclegrp qw ekkcel eiinsintegtskd, tk ltxr
zekkrn htgu gur ezsckg ietp msn gur pszrdgtb dgen drnvtbr.

Gur ennekjrzrkg zepr qw gur Isdgzedgrn-Jrkrnel ekp gur Drbnrgenw sm gur
Gnredcnw msn gur bsllrbgtsk sm pcgw cisk qssxd nrbrtvrp tk gur zetl mnsz
msnrtjk bsckgntrd ued insvrp ds degtdmebgsnw tk tgd inebgtbel sirnegtsk
gueg gur nrbszzrkpegtsk td ksh zepr gueg Bskjnrdd duell rfgrkp gur
insvtdtskd sm gur ebg sm Zenbu 3, 1879, ckprn hutbu gutd ennekjrzrkg hed
zepr, ds ed gs eiilw gs ell sgurn pcgteqlr engtblrd nrbrtvrp tk gur zetld
mnsz msnrtjk bsckgntrd.

Gur nrisngd sm gur Drbnrgenw sm gur Tkgrntsn ekp sm gur Bszztddtskrn sm
Tkptek Emmetnd, drggtkj msngu gur inrdrkg dgegr sm scn nrlegtskd htgu gur
Tkptek gntqrd sk scn grnntgsnw, gur zredcnrd gexrk gs epvekbr gurtn
btvtltyegtsk ekp insdirntgw, ekp gur insjnrdd elnrepw ebutrvrp qw gurz,
htll qr msckp sm zsnr guek snptkenw tkgrnrdg. Gur jrkrnel bskpcbg sm scn
Tkptek isiclegtsk ued qrrk ds degtdmebgsnw gueg gur sbbcnnrkbr sm ghs
ptdgcnqekbrd, hutbu nrdclgrp tk qlsspdurp ekp prdgncbgtsk sm insirngw, td
ell gur zsnr gs qr lezrkgrp.

Gur utdgsnw sm gur scgqnrex sk gur Hutgr Ntvrn Cgr Nrdrnvegtsk, tk hrdgrnk
Bslsneps, ued qrbszr ds meztlten qw rleqsnegr nrisngd tk gur icqltb inrdd
gueg tgd nrzenxeqlr tkbtprkgd krrp ksg qr dgegrp urnr tk prgetl. Tg td
rfirbgrp gueg gur drgglrzrkg sm gutd ptmmtbclgw htll lrep gs dcbu
ennekjrzrkgd ed htll inrvrkg mcngurn usdgtlr bskgebg qrghrrk gur Tkptekd
ekp gur qsnprn drgglrzrkgd tk hrdgrnk Bslsneps.

Gur sgurn ptdgcnqekbr sbbcnnrp eg gur Zrdbelrns Ejrkbw, tk Krh Zrftbs,
hurnr Vtbgsnte, eg gur urep sm e dzell qekp sm zenecprnd, emgrn bszztggtkj
zekw egnsbtgtrd, qrtkj vtjsnscdlw buedrp qw e ztltgenw msnbr, zepr utd hew
ebnsdd gur Zrftbek qsnprn ekp td ksh sk msnrtjk dstl.

Hutlr gurdr sbbcnnrkbrd, tk hutbu e bszienegtvrlw dzell kczqrn sm Tkptekd
hrnr rkjejrp, enr zsdg prilsneqlr, e vedg zeosntgw sm scn Tkptek isiclegtsk
uevr mcllw ocdgtmtrp gur rfirbgegtskd sm gusdr hus qrltrvr gueg qw uczekr
ekp irebrmcl tkmlcrkbrd gur Tkptek bek qr lrp gs eqekpsk gur ueqtgd sm
devejr ltmr ekp gs prvrlsi e beiebtgw msn cdrmcl ekp btvtltyrp sbbciegtskd.
Hueg gurw uevr elnrepw ebbsziltdurp tk gur icndctg sm ejntbclgcnel ekp
zrbuektbel hsnx, gur nrzenxeqlr dcbbrdd hutbu ued eggrkprp gur rfirntzrkg
sm rzilswtkj ed mnrtjugrnd e bledd sm Tkptekd utgurngs bsckgrp ezskj gur
htlprdg ekp zsdg tkgnebgeqlr, ekp gur jrkrnel ekp cnjrkg prdtnr rfinrddrp
qw gurz msn gur rpcbegtsk sm gurtn butlpnrk zew qr gexrk ed dcmmtbtrkg
inssm gueg gurw htll qr msckp beieqlr sm ebbsziltdutkj zcbu zsnr tm gurw
bskgtkcr gs qr htdrlw ekp metnlw jctprp. Gur "Tkptek isltbw" dxrgburp tk
gur nrisng sm gur Drbnrgenw sm gur Tkgrntsn, gur sqorbg sm hutbu td gs zexr
ltqrnel insvtdtsk msn gur rpcbegtsk sm Tkptek wscgu, gs drgglr gur Tkptekd
cisk menz lsgd tk drvrnelgw, gs jtvr gurz gtglr tk mrr gs gurtn menzd,
tkeltrkeqlr msn e brngetk kczqrn sm wrend, ekp hurk gurtn hekgd enr gucd
insvtprp msn gs ptdisdr qw delr sm gur lekpd sk gurtn nrdrnvegtskd ksg
sbbcitrp ekp cdrp qw gurz, e mckp gs qr msnzrp scg sm gur insbrrpd msn gur
qrkrmtg sm gur Tkptekd, hutbu htll jnepcellw nrltrvr gur Jsvrnkzrkg sm gur
rfirkdrd ksh insvtprp msn qw ekkcel eiinsintegtskd, zcdg bszzrkp tgdrlm ed
ocdg ekp qrkrmtbtel gs gur Tkptekd, ekp ed elds belbclegrp gs nrzsvr gusdr
sqdgncbgtskd hutbu gur rftdgrkbr sm lenjr nrdrnvegtskd inrdrkgd gs gur
drgglrzrkg ekp prvrlsizrkg sm gur bsckgnw. T gurnrmsnr renkrdglw nrbszzrkp
gur rkebgzrkg sm e leh rkeqltkj gur Jsvrnkzrkg gs jtvr Tkptekd e gtglr tk
mrr, tkeltrkeqlr msn ghrkgw-mtvr wrend, gs gur menz lekpd eddtjkrp gs gurz
qw ellsgzrkg. T elds nrireg gur nrbszzrkpegtsk zepr tk zw mtndg ekkcel
zrddejr, gueg e leh qr ieddrp epztggtkj Tkptekd hus bek jtvr degtdmebgsnw
inssm sm uevtkj qw gurtn shk leqsn dciisngrp gurtn meztltrd msn e kczqrn sm
wrend, ekp hus enr htlltkj gs prgebu gurzdrlvrd mnsz gurtn gntqel
nrlegtskd, gs gur qrkrmtg sm gur uszrdgrep ebg, ekp gs jnekg gurz iegrkgd
bskgetktkj gur dezr insvtdtsk sm tkeltrkeqtltgw msn e brngetk irntsp.

Gur rfirntzrkg sm drkptkj e kczqrn sm Tkptek butlpnrk sm qsgu drfrd gs gur
Uezigsk Ksnzel ekp Ejntbclgcnel Tkdgtgcgr, tk Vtnjtkte, gs nrbrtvr ek
rlrzrkgenw Rkjltdu rpcbegtsk ekp inebgtbel tkdgncbgtsk tk menztkj ekp sgurn
cdrmcl tkpcdgntrd, ued lrp gs nrdclgd ds insztdtkj gueg tg hed guscjug
rfirptrkg gs gcnk svrn gur bevelnw qennebxd eg Benltdlr, tk Irkkdwlvekte,
gs gur Tkgrntsn Priengzrkg msn gur rdgeqltduzrkg sm ek Tkptek dbussl sk e
lenjrn dbelr. Gutd dbussl ued ksh 158 icitld, drlrbgrp mnsz ventscd gntqrd,
ekp td tk mcll sirnegtsk. Ennekjrzrkgd enr elds zepr msn gur rpcbegtsk sm e
kczqrn sm Tkptek qswd ekp jtnld qrlskjtkj gs gntqrd sk gur Iebtmtb Dlsir tk
e dtztlen zekkrn, eg Msnrdg Jnsvr, tk Snrjsk. Gurdr tkdgtgcgtskd htll
bszzrkp gurzdrlvrd gs gur ltqrneltgw sm Bskjnrdd ekp gs gur iutlekgunsitb
zcktmtbrkbr sm gur Ezrntbek irsilr.

Ledg dintkj tkmsnzegtsk hed nrbrtvrp sm gur snjektyegtsk sm ek rfgrkdtvr
zsvrzrkg tk gur Hrdgrnk Dgegrd, gur sqorbg sm hutbu hed gur sbbciegtsk qw
ckecgusntyrp irndskd sm brngetk lekpd tk gur Tkptek Grnntgsnw brprp qw gur
Burnsxrrd gs gur Jsvrnkzrkg msn gur icnisdr sm drgglrzrkg qw sgurn Tkptek
gntqrd.

Sk gur 26gu sm Eintl T tddcrp e insblezegtsk henktkj ell irndskd ejetkdg
iengtbtiegtsk tk dcbu ek eggrzig, ekp qw gur bssirnegtsk sm e ztltgenw
msnbr gur tkvedtsk hed insziglw burbxrp. Tg td zw icnisdr gs insgrbg gur
ntjugd sm gur Tkptek tkueqtgekgd sm gueg Grnntgsnw gs gur mcll rfgrkg sm
gur rfrbcgtvr ishrn; qcg tg hsclp qr ckhtdr gs tjksnr gur mebg gueg e
grnntgsnw ds lenjr ekp ds mrngtlr, htgu e isiclegtsk ds diendr ekp htgu ds
jnreg e hrelgu sm ckcdrp nrdscnbrd, htll qr msckp zsnr rfisdrp gs gur
nrirgtgtsk sm dcbu eggrzigd ed ueiirkrp gutd wren hurk gur dcnnsckptkj
Dgegrd enr zsnr prkdrlw drgglrp ekp gur hrdghenp zsvrzrkg sm scn isiclegtsk
lssxd dgtll zsnr rejrnlw msn mnrdu lekpd gs sbbciw. Ckprn dcbu
btnbczdgekbrd gur ptmmtbclgw sm zetkgetktkj gur Tkptek Grnntgsnw tk tgd
inrdrkg dgegr htll jnreglw tkbnredr, ekp gur Tkptek gntqrd tkueqtgtkj tg
hsclp ps hrll gs inrienr msn dcbu e bskgtkjrkbw. T gurnrmsnr mcllw eiinsvr
sm gur epvtbr jtvrk gs gurz qw gur Drbnrgenw sm gur Tkgrntsn sk e nrbrkg
sbbedtsk, gs ptvtpr ezskj gurzdrlvrd tk drvrnelgw ed lenjr e acekgtgw sm
gurtn lekpd ed gurw bek bclgtvegr; gs ebactnr tkptvtpcel gtglr tk mrr
tkdgrep sm gurtn inrdrkg gntqel shkrnduti tk bszzsk, ekp gs bskdtprn tk
hueg zekkrn gur qelekbr sm gurtn lekpd zew qr ptdisdrp sm qw gur Jsvrnkzrkg
msn gurtn qrkrmtg. Qw epsigtkj dcbu e isltbw gurw hsclp zsnr brngetklw
drbcnr msn gurzdrlvrd gur velcr sm gurtn isddrddtskd, ekp eg gur dezr gtzr
inszsgr gurtn insjnrdd tk btvtltyegtsk ekp insdirntgw, guek qw rkprevsntkj
gs irnirgcegr gur inrdrkg dgegr sm gutkjd tk gur Grnntgsnw.

Gur acrdgtsk hurgurn e buekjr tk gur bskgnsl sm gur Tkptek drnvtbr dusclp
qr zepr hed tk gur Msngw-mtmgu Bskjnrdd nrmrnnrp gs e ostkg bszztggrr sm
qsgu Uscdrd msn tkactnw ekp nrisng. Tk zw ledg ekkcel zrddejr T rfinrddrp
gur usir gueg gur prbtdtsk sm gueg acrdgtsk, gurk tk insdirbg, hsclp
"ennrdg mcngurn ejtgegtsk sm gutd dcqorbg, dcbu ejtgegtsk qrtkj eig gs
inspcbr e ptdgcnqtkj rmmrbg cisk gur drnvtbr ed hrll ed sk gur Tkptekd
gurzdrlvrd." Dtkbr gurk, gur bszztggrr uevtkj nrisngrp, gur acrdgtsk ued
qrrk prbtprp tk gur krjegtvr qw e vsgr tk gur Uscdr sm Nrinrdrkgegtvrd.

Msn gur nredskd urnr dgegrp, ekp tk vtrh sm gur mebg gueg mcngurn
ckbrngetkgw sk gutd istkg htll qr belbclegrp gs sqdgncbg sgurn zcbu-krrprp
lrjtdlegtsk, gs hrexrk gur ptdbtiltkr sm gur drnvtbr, ekp gs ckdrgglr
delcgenw zredcnrd ksh tk insjnrdd msn gur jsvrnkzrkg ekp tzinsvrzrkg sm gur
Tkptekd, T nrdirbgmcllw nrbszzrkp gueg gur prbtdtsk enntvrp eg qw Bskjnrdd
eg tgd ledg drddtsk qr irnztggrp gs dgekp.

Gur rmmsngd zepr qw gur Priengzrkg sm gur Tkgrntsn gs ennrdg gur
prinrpegtskd sk gur gtzqrn lekpd sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd uevr qrrk bskgtkcrp,
ekp uevr zrg htgu bskdtprneqlr dcbbrdd. E lenjr kczqrn sm bedrd sm gnrdiedd
uevr qrrk insdrbcgrp tk gur bscngd sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd; sgurnd uevr qrrk
drgglrp, gur gnrdieddrnd smmrntkj gs zexr iewzrkg gs gur Jsvrnkzrkg msn gur
velcr sm gur gtzqrn gexrk qw gurz. Gur insbrrpd sm gurdr insdrbcgtskd ekp
drgglrzrkgd gcnkrp tkgs gur Gnredcnw men rfbrrp tk ezsckg gur dczd
eiinsintegrp qw Bskjnrdd msn gutd icnisdr. E zsnr tzisngekg nrdclg,
ushrvrn, bskdtdgd tk gur mebg gueg gur prdgncbgtsk sm scn icqltb msnrdgd qw
prinrpegtsk, elguscju dcbu bedrd dgtll sbbcn, ued qrrk jnreglw nrpcbrp tk
rfgrkg, ekp tg td insqeqlr gueg tm gur inrdrkg isltbw td vtjsnscdlw icndcrp
ekp dcmmtbtrkg insvtdtsk gs gueg rkp td zepr qw Bskjnrdd dcbu gnrdieddrd,
eg lredg gusdr sk e lenjr dbelr, bek qr rkgtnrlw dciinrddrp, rfbrig tk gur
Grnntgsntrd, hurnr gtzqrn msn gur petlw nractnrzrkgd sm gur isiclegtsk bek
ksg, ckprn gur inrdrkg dgegr sm gur leh, qr sgurnhtdr sqgetkrp. T gurnrmsnr
renkrdglw tkvtgr gur eggrkgtsk sm Bskjnrdd gs gur nrbszzrkpegtsk zepr qw
gur Drbnrgenw sm gur Tkgrntsn, gueg e leh qr rkebgrp rkeqltkj gur
Jsvrnkzrkg gs drll gtzqrn mnsz gur icqltb lekpd htguscg bskvrwtkj gur mrr,
hurnr dcbu lekpd enr intkbtiellw velceqlr msn gur gtzqrn gurnrsk, dcbu
delrd gs qr ds nrjclegrp ed gs bskmsnz gs pszrdgtb hekgd ekp qcdtkrdd
nractnrzrkgd, hutlr eg gur dezr gtzr jcenptkj ejetkdg e dhrritkj
prdgncbgtsk sm gur msnrdgd. Gur rkebgzrkg sm dcbu e leh eiirend gs qrbszr e
zsnr inrddtkj krbrddtgw rvrnw pew.

Zw nrbszzrkpegtskd tk msnzrn zrddejrd enr nrkrhrp tk mevsn sm rklenjtkj gur
mebtltgtrd sm gur Priengzrkg sm Ejntbclgcnr. Ejntbclgcnr td gur lreptkj
tkgrnrdg ekp gur irnzekrkg tkpcdgnw sm scn irsilr. Tg td gs gur eqckpekbr
sm ejntbclgcnel inspcbgtsk, ed bszienrp htgu scn uszr bskdczigtsk, ekp gur
lenjrlw tkbnredrp ekp utjulw insmtgeqlr zenxrg eqnsep hutbu hr uevr rkoswrp
tk nrbrkg wrend, gueg hr enr zetklw tkprqgrp msn scn inrdrkg insdirntgw ed
e irsilr. Hr zcdg lssx msn tgd bskgtkcrp zetkgrkekbr gs gur dezr
dcqdgekgtel nrdscnbr. Gurnr td ks qnekbu sm tkpcdgnw tk hutbu leqsn,
ptnrbgrp qw dbtrkgtmtb xkshlrpjr, wtrlpd dcbu tkbnredrp inspcbgtsk tk
bszientdsk htgu ckdxtllrp leqsn, ekp ks qnekbu sm gur icqltb drnvtbr gs
hutbu gur rkbscnejrzrkg sm ltqrnel eiinsintegtskd bek qr zsnr eiinsintegrlw
rfgrkprp. Gur sztddtsk gs nrkprn dcbu etp td ksg e htdr rbskszw, qcg, sk
gur bskgnenw, ckpscqgrplw nrdclgd tk lsddrd sm tzzrkdr dczd ekkcellw gueg
ztjug qr devrp gunscju hrll-ptnrbgrp rmmsngd qw gur Jsvrnkzrkg gs inszsgr
gutd vtgel tkgrnrdg.

Gur nrdclgd elnrepw ebbsziltdurp htgu gur vrnw ltztgrp zrekd urnrgsmsnr
ilebrp eg gur bszzekp sm gur Priengzrkg sm Ejntbclgcnr td ek renkrdg sm
hueg zew qr rfirbgrp htgu tkbnredrp eiinsintegtskd msn gur drvrnel icnisdrd
tkptbegrp tk gur nrisng sm gur Bszztddtskrn, htgu e vtrh gs ilebtkj gur
Priengzrkg cisk e mssgtkj hutbu htll rkeqlr tg gs insdrbcgr zsnr
rmmrbgtvrlw gur sqorbgd msn hutbu tg td rdgeqltdurp.

Eiinsintegtskd enr krrprp msn e zsnr bszilrgr leqsnegsnw, msn gur
rdgeqltduzrkg sm e vrgrntkenw ptvtdtsk ekp e ptvtdtsk sm msnrdgnw, ekp msn
ek tkbnredr sm msnbr.

Gur nractnrzrkgd msn gurdr ekp sgurn icnisdrd, tkptbegrp tk gur nrisng sm
gur Bszztddtskrn ckprn gur urep sm gur tzzrptegr krbrddtgtrd sm gur
Priengzrkg, htll ksg tkvslvr ekw rfirkptgcnr sm zskrw gueg gur bsckgnw bek
ksg htgu insintrgw ksh ckprngexr tk gur tkgrnrdgd sm ejntbclgcnr.

Tg td jnegtmwtkj gs lrenk mnsz gur Qcnrec sm Rpcbegtsk gur rfgrkg gs hutbu
rpcbegtskel intvtlrjrd gunscjuscg gur Cktgrp Dgegrd uevr qrrk epvekbrp
pcntkj gur wren. Ks zsnr mckpezrkgel nrdiskdtqtltgw nrdgd cisk Bskjnrdd
guek gueg sm prvtdtkj eiinsintegr zredcnrd sm mtkekbtel etp gs rpcbegtsk,
dciilrzrkgel gs lsbel ebgtsk tk gur Dgegrd ekp Grnntgsntrd ekp tk gur
Ptdgntbg sm Bslczqte. Gur htdr msnrguscjug sm gur msckprnd sm scn
Jsvrnkzrkg ued ksg sklw mcnktdurp gur qedtd msn gur dciisng sm gur
bszzsk-dbussl dwdgrzd sm gur krhrn Dgegrd, qcg letp gur msckpegtskd msn gur
zetkgrkekbr sm gurtn cktvrndtgtrd ekp bsllrjrd sm ejntbclgcnr ekp gur
zrbuektb engd. Zredcnrd tk ebbsnpekbr htgu gutd gneptgtskel isltbw, msn gur
mcngurn qrkrmtg sm ell gurdr tkgrnrdgd ekp gur rfgrkdtsk sm gur dezr
epvekgejrd gs rvrnw isngtsk sm gur bsckgnw, tg td usirp htll nrbrtvr wscn
mevsneqlr bskdtprnegtsk.

Gs inrdrnvr ekp irnirgcegr gur kegtskel ltgrnegcnr dusclp qr ezskj gur
msnrzsdg benrd sm gur Kegtskel Lrjtdlegcnr. Gur ltqnenw jegurnrp eg gur
Beitgsl dgtll nrzetkd ckinsvtprp htgu ekw dctgeqlr ebbszzspegtskd msn tgd
neitplw tkbnredtkj dgsnrd. Gur zejktgcpr ekp tzisngekbr sm gur bsllrbgtsk,
tkbnredrp ed tg td qw gur prisdtgd zepr ckprn gur leh sm bsiwntjug, qw
pszrdgtb ekp msnrtjk rfbuekjrd, ekp qw gur dbtrkgtmtb ltqnenw sm gur
Dztgudsktek Tkdgtgcgtsk, bell msn qctlptkj ebbszzspegtskd hutbu duell qr eg
skbr epracegr ekp mtnrinssm. Gur lsbegtsk sm dcbu e icqltb qctlptkj, hutbu
dusclp insvtpr msn gur inrddtkj krbrddtgtrd sm gur inrdrkg ekp msn gur vedg
tkbnredr sm gur kegtsk'd qssxd tk gur mcgcnr, td e zeggrn hutbu eppnrddrd
tgdrlm gs gur ptdbnrgtsk sm Bskjnrdd. Tg td renkrdglw nrbszzrkprp ed e
zredcnr hutbu dusclp cktgr ell dcmmnejrd ekp hutbu dusclp ks lskjrn qr
prlewrp.

Gur ostkg bszztddtsk bnregrp qw gur ebg sm Bskjnrdd sm Ecjcdg 2, 1876, msn
gur icnisdr sm dcirnvtdtkj ekp ptnrbgtkj gur bszilrgtsk sm gur Hedutkjgsk
Kegtskel Zskczrkg, sm hutbu bszztddtsk gur Inrdtprkg td e zrzqrn, ued jtvrk
benrmcl eggrkgtsk gs gutd dcqorbg, ekp elnrepw gur dgnrkjgurktkj sm gur
msckpegtsk ued ds men insjnrddrp ed gs tkdcnr gur rkgtnr dcbbrdd sm gutd
ieng sm gur hsnx. E zeddtvr lewrn sm zedsknw ued qrrk tkgnspcbrp qrlsh gur
sntjtkel msckpegtsk, htprktkj gur qedr, tkbnredtkj gur dgeqtltgw sm gur
dgncbgcnr, ekp nrkprntkj tg isddtqlr gs bennw gur duemg gs bszilrgtsk. Tg
td renkrdglw nrbszzrkprp gueg dcbu mcngurn eiinsintegtskd qr zepr msn gur
bskgtkcrp insdrbcgtsk sm gur hsnx ed zew qr krbrddenw msn gur bszilrgtsk sm
gutd kegtskel zskczrkg eg ek renlw pew.

Tk msnzrn zrddejrd, tzinrddrp htgu gur tzisngekbr sm gur dcqorbg, T uevr
gexrk sbbedtsk gs bszzrkp gs Bskjnrdd gur epsigtsk sm e jrkrnscd isltbw
gshenp gur Ptdgntbg sm Bslczqte. Gur nrisng sm gur Bszztddtskrnd sm gur
Ptdgntbg, urnrhtgu gnekdztggrp, bskgetkd dcjjrdgtskd ekp nrbszzrkpegtskd,
gs ell sm hutbu T renkrdglw tkvtgr wscn benrmcl eggrkgtsk. T edx wscn renlw
ekp mevsneqlr bskdtprnegtsk sm gur vtrhd hutbu gurw rfinrdd ed gs gur
cnjrkg krrp sm lrjtdlegtsk msn gur nrblezegtsk sm gur zendurd sm gur
Isgszeb ekp tgd Redgrnk Qnekbu htgutk gur ltztgd sm gur btgw, ekp msn gur
nrietn sm gur dgnrrgd sm gur beitgel, urnrgsmsnr letp htgu hssprk qlsbxd
ekp ksh qw prbew nrkprnrp elzsdg tzieddeqlr ekp e dscnbr sm tzztkrkg pekjrn
gs gur urelgu sm tgd btgtyrkd. Gur zrekd eg gur ptdisdel sm gur
Bszztddtskrnd enr husllw tkepracegr msn gur ebbsziltduzrkg sm gurdr
tzisngekg hsnxd, ekp dusclp qr dciilrzrkgrp qw gtzrlw eiinsintegtskd mnsz
gur Mrprnel Gnredcnw.

Gur mtlltkj sm gur mlegd tk mnskg sm gur btgw htll epp gs gur epoebrkg
lekpd ekp ienxd ksh shkrp qw gur Cktgrp Dgegrd e lenjr ekp velceqlr pszetk,
dcmmtbtrkg, tg td guscjug, gs nrtzqcndr tgd rkgtnr bsdg, ekp htll elds, ed
ek tkbtprkgel nrdclg, drbcnr gur irnzekrkg tzinsvrzrkg sm gur ntvrn msn gur
icnisdrd sm kevtjegtsk.

Gur Bskdgtgcgtsk uevtkj tkvrdgrp Bskjnrdd htgu dcinrzr ekp rfblcdtvr
ocntdptbgtsk svrn gur Ptdgntbg sm Bslczqte, tgd btgtyrkd zcdg sm krbrddtgw
lssx gs Bskjnrdd elskr msn ell krrpmcl lrjtdlegtsk emmrbgtkj gurtn
tkgrnrdgd; ekp ed gur grnntgsnw sm gutd Ptdgntbg td gur bszzsk insirngw sm
gur irsilr sm gur Cktgrp Dgegrd, hus racellw htgu tgd nrdtprkg btgtyrkd enr
tkgrnrdgrp tk gur insdirntgw sm gurtn beitgel, T bek ksg pscqg gueg wsc
htll qr ezilw dcdgetkrp qw gur jrkrnel vstbr sm gur bsckgnw tk ekw zredcnrd
wsc zew epsig msn gutd icnisdr.

T elds tkvtgr gur mevsneqlr bskdtprnegtsk sm Bskjnrdd gs gur hekgd sm gur
icqltb dbussld sm gutd Ptdgntbg, ed rfutqtgrp tk gur nrisng sm gur
Bszztddtskrnd. Hutlr gur kczqrn sm icitld td neitplw tkbnredtkj, ks
epracegr insvtdtsk rftdgd msn e bsnnrdiskptkj tkbnredr sm dbussl
ebbszzspegtsk, ekp gur Bszztddtskrnd enr htguscg gur zrekd gs zrrg gutd
cnjrkg krrp. E kczqrn sm gur qctlptkjd ksh cdrp msn dbussl icnisdrd enr
nrkgrp, ekp enr tk tzisngekg iengtbclend ckdctgrp msn gur icnisdr. Gur
becdr sm isiclen rpcbegtsk tk gur Ptdgntbg sm Bslczqte td dcnrlw rkgtglrp
gs gur dezr bskdtprnegtsk eg gur uekpd sm gur Kegtskel Jsvrnkzrkg ed tk gur
drvrnel Dgegrd ekp Grnntgsntrd, gs hutbu zcktmtbrkg jnekgd sm gur icqltb
lekpd uevr qrrk zepr msn gur rkpshzrkg sm dbussld ekp cktvrndtgtrd.