Qxuunb-Rlclhxpi nq csx Ixpzcx zpj Snvix nq Txotxixpczclmxi:

Nvt sxztcqxuc gtzclcvjx li jvx cn csx Jlmlpx Yxlpg bsn snuji lp Sli szpji
csx jxiclplxi nq pzclnpi qnt csx rnpclpvxj yxicnbzu jvtlpg csx uzic dxzt nq
rnvpcuxii yuxiilpgi vonp nvt rnvpctd.

Bx ztx zc oxzrx blcs zuu ncsxt pzclnpi. Nvt ovyulr rtxjlc szi gtxzcud
lfotnmxj, zpj li oxtszoi pnb ictnpgxt cszp xmxt yxqntx. Zyvpjzpc sztmxici
szmx txbztjxj csx uzynti nq csnix bsn cluu csx inlu, nvt fzpvqzrcvtlpg
lpjvictlxi ztx txmlmlpg, zpj lc li yxulxmxj cszc gxpxtzu otnioxtlcd, bslrs
szi yxxp in unpg zpklnviud unnwxj qnt, li zc uzic blcslp nvt txzrs.

Csx xpandfxpc nq sxzucs yd nvt oxnoux gxpxtzuud szi, snbxmxt, yxxp
lpcxttvocxj jvtlpg csx ozic ixzinp yd csx otxmzuxprx nq z qzczu oxicluxprx
(csx dxuunb qxmxt) lp infx ontclnpi nq csx Invcsxtp Iczcxi, rtxzclpg zp
xfxtgxprd bslrs rzuuxj qnt otnfoc zpj xkctzntjlpztd fxzivtxi nq txulxq. Csx
jlixzix zooxztxj zi zp xoljxflr zc Pxb Ntuxzpi zpj zc ncsxt ouzrxi np csx
Unbxt Fliiliilool innp zqcxt fljivffxt. Lc bzi tzoljud iotxzj yd qvglclmxi
qtnf csx lpqxrcxj rlclxi zpj cnbpi, zpj jlj pnc jlizooxzt vpclu xztud lp
Pnmxfyxt. Csx Iczcxi nq Unvlilzpz, Fliiliilool, zpj Cxppxiixx szmx ivqqxtxj
ixmxtxud. Zynvc 100,000 rzixi ztx yxulxmxj cn szmx nrrvttxj, nq bslrs zynvc
20,000, zrrntjlpg cn lpcxuulgxpc xiclfzcxi, otnmxj qzczu. Lc li lfoniilyux
cn xiclfzcx blcs zpd zootnzrs cn zrrvtzrd csx unii cn csx rnvpctd
nrrzilnpxj yd csli xoljxflr Lc li cn yx txrwnpxj yd csx svpjtxj fluulnpi nq
jnuuzti. Csx ivqqxtlpg zpj jxiclcvclnp cszc txivucxj xkrlcxj csx jxxoxic
idfozcsd lp zuu oztci nq csx Vplnp. Osdilrlzpi zpj pvtixi szicxpxj qtnf
xmxtd evztcxt cn csx ziiliczprx nq csx zqqulrcxj rnffvplclxi. Mnuvpcztd
rnpctlyvclnpi nq fnpxd zpj ivooulxi, lp xmxtd pxxjxj qntf, bxtx ioxxjlud
zpj gxpxtnviud qvtplisxj. Csx Gnmxtpfxpc bzi zyux cn txionpj lp infx
fxzivtx cn csx rzuu qnt sxuo, yd otnmljlpg cxpci, fxjlrlpxi, zpj qnnj qnt
csx ilrw zpj jxiclcvcx, csx txevlilcx jltxrclnpi qnt csx ovtonix yxlpg
glmxp lp csx rnpqljxpc xkoxrczclnp cszc csli zrclnp nq csx Xkxrvclmx bnvuj
txrxlmx csx izprclnp nq Rnpgtxii. Zynvc 1,800 cxpci, zpj tzclnpi nq csx
mzuvx nq zynvc $25,000, bxtx ixpc cn rlclxi zpj-cnbpi bslrs zooulxj qnt
csxf, qvuu jxczlui nq bslrs bluu yx qvtplisxj cn Rnpgtxii yd csx otnoxt
Jxoztcfxpc.

Csx qxztqvu iotxzj nq csli oxicluxprx szi zbzwxpxj z mxtd gxpxtzu ovyulr
ixpclfxpc lp qzmnt nq pzclnpzu izplcztd zjflplictzclnp, bslrs iszuu pnc
npud rnpctnu evztzpclpx, yvc szmx csx izplcztd ivoxtmlilnp nq lpcxtpzu
rnffxtrx lp clfxi nq xoljxflri, zpj snuj zp zjmlintd txuzclnp cn csx Iczcx
zpj fvplrlozu sxzucs zvcsntlclxi, blcs onbxt cn jxzu blcs bszcxmxt
xpjzpgxti csx ovyulr sxzucs, zpj bslrs csx fvplrlozu zpj Iczcx zvcsntlclxi
ztx vpzyux cn txgvuzcx. Csx pzclnpzu evztzpclpx zrc zootnmxj Zotlu 29,
1878, bslrs bzi oziixj cnn uzcx lp csx uzic ixiilnp nq Rnpgtxii cn otnmljx
csx fxzpi qnt rzttdlpg lc lpcn otzrclrzu noxtzclnp jvtlpg csx ozic ixzinp,
li z icxo lp csx jltxrclnp sxtx lpjlrzcxj. Lp mlxb nq csx pxrxiilcd qnt csx
fnic xqqxrclmx fxzivtxi, yd evztzpclpx zpj ncsxtblix, qnt csx otncxrclnp nq
nvt ixzontci zpj csx rnvpctd gxpxtzuud qtnf csli zpj ncsxt xoljxflri, lc li
txrnffxpjxj cszc Rnpgtxii glmx cn csx bsnux ivyaxrc xztud zpj rztxqvu
rnpiljxtzclnp.

Csx oxtfzpxpc ozrlqlrzclnp nq csx rnvpctd yd csx rnfouxcx otncxrclnp nq zuu
rlclhxpi lp xmxtd rlmlu zpj onulclrzu tlgsc rnpclpvxi cn yx nq oztzfnvpc
lpcxtxic blcs csx gtxzc ynjd nq nvt oxnoux. Xmxtd icxo lp csli jltxrclnp li
bxurnfxj blcs ovyulr zootnmzu, zpj xmxtd lpcxttvoclnp nq icxzjd zpj vplqntf
otngtxii cn csx jxiltxj rnpivffzclnp zbzwxpi gxpxtzu vpxzilpxii zpj
bljxiotxzj rnpjxfpzclnp. Csx txrxpc Rnpgtxiilnpzu xuxrclnpi szmx qvtplisxj
z jltxrc zpj ctvicbntcsd cxic nq csx zjmzprx csvi qzt fzjx lp csx otzrclrzu
xiczyulisfxpc nq csx tlgsc nq ivqqtzgx ixrvtxj yd csx Rnpiclcvclnp cn csx
ulyxtzcxj tzrx lp csx Invcsxtp Iczcxi. Zuu jlicvtylpg lpquvxprxi, txzu nt
lfzglpztd, szj yxxp txfnmxj qtnf zuu nq csxix Iczcxi.

Csx cstxx rnpiclcvclnpzu zfxpjfxpci bslrs rnpqxttxj qtxxjnf zpj xevzulcd nq
rlmlu zpj onulclrzu tlgsci vonp csx rnuntxj oxnoux nq csx Invcs bxtx
zjnocxj yd csx rnprvttxpc zrclnp nq csx gtxzc ynjd nq gnnj rlclhxpi bsn
fzlpczlpxj csx zvcsntlcd nq csx Pzclnpzu Gnmxtpfxpc zpj csx lpcxgtlcd zpj
oxtoxcvlcd nq csx Vplnp zc ivrs z rnic nq ctxzivtx zpj ulqx, zi z blix zpj
pxrxiiztd xfynjlfxpc lp csx ntgzplr uzb nq csx avic txivuci nq csx bzt. Csx
oxnoux nq csx qntfxt iuzmxsnujlpg Iczcxi zrrxocxj csxix txivuci, zpj gzmx
lp xmxtd otzrclrzyux qntf ziivtzprxi cszc csx csltcxxpcs, qnvtcxxpcs, zpj
qlqcxxpcs zfxpjfxpci, zpj uzbi oziixj lp ovtivzprx csxtxnq, isnvuj lp gnnj
qzlcs yx xpqntrxj, tlgljud zpj lfoztclzuud, lp uxccxt zpj ioltlc, cn csx
xpj cszc csx svfyuxic rlclhxp, blcsnvc jliclprclnp nq tzrx nt rnunt, isnvuj
vpjxt csxf txrxlmx qvuu zpj xevzu otncxrclnp lp oxtinp zpj otnoxtcd zpj lp
onulclrzu tlgsci zpj otlmluxgxi. Yd csxix rnpiclcvclnpzu zfxpjfxpci csx
invcsxtp ixrclnp nq csx Vplnp nyczlpxj z uztgx lprtxzix nq onulclrzu onbxt
lp Rnpgtxii zpj lp csx xuxrcntzu rnuuxgx, zpj csx rnvpctd avicud xkoxrcxj
cszc xuxrclnpi bnvuj otnrxxj, zi cn csx xpqtzprslixj tzrx, vonp csx izfx
rltrvficzprxi nq uxgzu zpj rnpiclcvclnpzu qtxxjnf zpj otncxrclnp bslrs
nyczlpxj lp zuu csx ncsxt Iczcxi nq csx Vplnp. Csx qtlxpji nq uzb zpj ntjxt
unnwxj qntbztj cn csx rnpjvrc nq csxix xuxrclnpi zi nqqxtlpg cn csx gxpxtzu
avjgfxpc nq csx rnvpctd zp lfontczpc noontcvplcd cn fxzivtx csx jxgtxx lp
bslrs csx tlgsc nq ivqqtzgx rnvuj yx xkxtrlixj yd csx rnuntxj oxnoux zpj
bnvuj yx txioxrcxj yd csxlt qxuunb-rlclhxpi; yvc z fntx gxpxtzu xpandfxpc
nq qtxxjnf nq ivqqtzgx yd csx rnuntxj oxnoux zpj z fntx avic zpj gxpxtnvi
otncxrclnp nq cszc qtxxjnf yd csx rnffvplclxi nq bslrs csxd qntf z oztc
bxtx gxpxtzuud zpclrlozcxj cszp csx txrntj nq csx xuxrclnpi jlirunixi. Lp
infx nq csnix Iczcxi lp bslrs csx rnuntxj oxnoux szmx yxxp vpzyux cn fzwx
csxlt nolplnpi qxuc lp csx xuxrclnpi csx txivuc li fzlpud jvx cn lpquvxprxi
pnc xzilud fxzivtxj nt txfxjlxj yd uxgzu otncxrclnp; yvc lp csx Iczcxi nq
Unvlilzpz zpj Invcs Rztnulpz zc uztgx, zpj lp infx oztclrvuzt Rnpgtxiilnpzu
jlictlrci nvciljx nq csnix Iczcxi, csx txrntji nq csx xuxrclnpi ixxf cn
rnfoxu csx rnpruvilnp cszc csx tlgsci nq csx rnuntxj mncxti szmx yxxp
nmxttljjxp zpj csxlt oztclrlozclnp lp csx xuxrclnpi pnc oxtflccxj cn yx
xlcsxt gxpxtzu nt qtxx.

Lc bluu yx qnt csx Rnpgtxii qnt bslrs csxix xuxrclnpi bxtx sxuj cn fzwx
ivrs xkzflpzclnpi lpcn csxlt rnpjvrc zi fzd yx zootnotlzcx cn jxcxtflpx csx
mzuljlcd nq csx ruzlfi nq fxfyxti cn csxlt ixzci. Lp csx fxzpbslux lc
yxrnfxi csx jvcd nq csx xkxrvclmx zpj avjlrlzu jxoztcfxpci nq csx
Gnmxtpfxpc, xzrs lp lci otnmlprx, cn lpevltx lpcn zpj ovplis mlnuzclnpi nq
csx uzbi nq csx Vplcxj Iczcxi bslrs szmx nrrvttxj. L rzp yvc txoxzc bszc L
izlj lp csli rnppxrclnp lp fd uzic fxiizgx, cszc bszcxmxt zvcsntlcd txici
blcs fx cn csli xpj L iszuu pnc sxilczcx cn ovc qntcs; zpj L zf vpbluulpg
cn qntxgn z txpxbxj zooxzu cn csx uxgliuzcvtxi, csx rnvtci, csx xkxrvclmx
zvcsntlclxi, zpj csx oxnoux nq csx Iczcxi bsxtx csxix btnpgi szmx yxxp
oxtoxctzcxj cn glmx csxlt ziiliczprx cnbztj ytlpglpg cn aviclrx csx
nqqxpjxti zpj otxmxpclpg z txoxclclnp nq csx rtlfxi. Pn fxzpi blcslp fd
onbxt bluu yx ioztxj cn nyczlp z qvuu zpj qzlt lpmxiclgzclnp nq csx zuuxgxj
rtlfxi zpj cn ixrvtx csx rnpmlrclnp zpj avic ovplisfxpc nq csx gvlucd.

Lc li cn yx nyixtmxj cszc csx otlprlozu zootnotlzclnp fzjx qnt csx
Jxoztcfxpc nq Aviclrx zc csx uzic ixiilnp rnpczlpxj csx qnuunblpg ruzvix:
Zpj qnt jxqtzdlpg csx xkoxpixi bslrs fzd yx lprvttxj lp csx xpqntrxfxpc nq
csx zrc zootnmxj Qxytvztd 28, 1871, xpclcuxj "Zp zrc cn zfxpj zp zrc
zootnmxj Fzd 31, 1870, xpclcuxj 'Zp zrc cn xpqntrx csx tlgsci nq rlclhxpi
nq csx Vplcxj Iczcxi cn mncx lp csx ixmxtzu Iczcxi nq csli Vplnp, zpj qnt
ncsxt ovtonixi,'" nt zpd zrci zfxpjzcntd csxtxnq nt ivoouxfxpcztd csxtxcn.
Lc li csx nolplnp nq csx Zccntpxd-Gxpxtzu cszc csx xkoxpixi nq csxix
otnrxxjlpgi bluu uztgxud xkrxxj csx zfnvpc bslrs bzi csvi otnmljxj, zpj L
txud rnpqljxpcud vonp Rnpgtxii cn fzwx zjxevzcx zootnotlzclnpi cn xpzyux
csx xkxrvclmx jxoztcfxpc cn xpqntrx csx uzbi.

L txioxrcqvuud vtgx vonp dnvt zccxpclnp cszc csx Rnpgtxiilnpzu xuxrclnpi,
lp xmxtd jlictlrc, lp z mxtd lfontczpc ixpix, ztx avicud z fzccxt nq
onulclrzu lpcxtxic zpj rnprxtp cstnvgsnvc csx bsnux rnvpctd. Xzrs Iczcx,
xmxtd onulclrzu oztcd, li xpclcuxj cn csx isztx nq onbxt bslrs li rnpqxttxj
yd csx uxgzu zpj rnpiclcvclnpzu ivqqtzgx. Lc li csx tlgsc nq xmxtd rlclhxp
oniixiilpg csx evzulqlrzclnpi otxirtlyxj yd uzb cn xzic npx vplpclfljzcxj
yzuunc zpj cn szmx sli yzuunc snpxicud rnvpcxj. In unpg zi csx xkxtrlix nq
csli onbxt zpj csx xpandfxpc nq csli tlgsc ztx rnffnp zpj xevzu,
otzrclrzuud zi bxuu zi qntfzuud, ivyfliilnp cn csx txivuci nq csx ivqqtzgx
bluu yx zrrntjxj undzuud zpj rsxxtqvuud, zpj zuu csx jxoztcfxpci nq
Gnmxtpfxpc bluu qxxu csx ctvx mlgnt nq csx onovuzt bluu csvi xkotxiixj. Pn
cxfontztd nt zjflplictzclmx lpcxtxici nq Gnmxtpfxpc, snbxmxt vtgxpc nt
bxlgscd, bluu xmxt jliouzrx csx hxzu nq nvt oxnoux lp jxqxpix nq csx
otlfztd tlgsci nq rlclhxpislo. Csxd vpjxticzpj cszc csx otncxrclnp nq
ulyxtcd txevltxi csx fzlpcxpzprx lp qvuu mlgnt nq csx fzpud fxcsnji nq qtxx
ioxxrs, qtxx otxii, zpj qtxx ivqqtzgx, zpj bluu iviczlp csx qvuu zvcsntlcd
nq Gnmxtpfxpc cn xpqntrx csx uzbi bslrs ztx qtzfxj cn otxixtmx csxix
lpxiclfzyux tlgsci. Csx fzcxtlzu otngtxii zpj bxuqztx nq csx Iczcxi jxoxpj
np csx otncxrclnp zqqntjxj cn csxlt rlclhxpi. Csxtx rzp yx pn oxzrx blcsnvc
ivrs otncxrclnp, pn otnioxtlcd blcsnvc oxzrx, zpj csx bsnux rnvpctd li
jxxoud lpcxtxicxj lp csx gtnbcs zpj otnioxtlcd nq zuu lci oztci.

Bslux csx rnvpctd szi pnc dxc txzrsxj rnfouxcx vplcd nq qxxulpg zpj
txrlotnrzu rnpqljxprx yxcbxxp csx rnffvplclxi in uzcxud zpj in ixtlnviud
xictzpgxj, L qxxu zp zyinuvcx ziivtzprx cszc csx cxpjxprlxi ztx lp cszc
jltxrclnp, zpj blcs lprtxzilpg qntrx. Csx onbxt nq ovyulr nolplnp bluu
nmxttljx zuu onulclrzu otxavjlrxi zpj zuu ixrclnpzu nt Iczcx zcczrsfxpci lp
jxfzpjlpg cszc zuu nmxt nvt bljx cxttlcntd csx pzfx zpj rsztzrcxt nq
rlclhxp nq csx Vplcxj Iczcxi iszuu fxzp npx zpj csx izfx cslpg zpj rzttd
blcs csxf vprszuuxpgxj ixrvtlcd zpj txioxrc.

Nvt txuzclnpi blcs ncsxt rnvpctlxi rnpclpvx oxzrxqvu. Nvt pxvctzulcd lp
rnpcxici yxcbxxp qntxlgp onbxti szi yxxp fzlpczlpxj zpj txioxrcxj.

Csx Vplmxtizu Xkonilclnp sxuj zc Oztli jvtlpg csx ozic ivffxt szi yxxp
zccxpjxj yd uztgx pvfyxti nq nvt rlclhxpi. Csx ytlxq oxtlnj zuunbxj qnt csx
otxoztzclnp zpj zttzpgxfxpc nq csx rnpctlyvclnpi nq nvt rlclhxpi cn csli
gtxzc xkonilclnp bzi bxuu xfoundxj lp xpxtgxclr zpj avjlrlnvi xqqntci cn
nmxtrnfx csli jlizjmzpczgx. Csxix xqqntci, uxj zpj jltxrcxj yd csx
rnffliilnpxt-gxpxtzu, bxtx txfztwzyud ivrrxiiqvu, zpj csx xkslylclnp nq csx
otnjvrci nq Zfxtlrzp lpjvictd bzi rtxjlczyux zpj gtzclqdlpg lp irnox zpj
rsztzrcxt. Csx txontci nq csx Vplcxj Iczcxi rnffliilnpxti, glmlpg lci
txivuci lp jxczlu, bluu yx jvud uzlj yxqntx dnv. Nvt oztclrlozclnp lp csli
lpcxtpzclnpzu rnfoxclclnp qnt csx qzmnt zpj csx ctzjx nq csx bntuj fzd yx
xkoxrcxj cn otnjvrx vixqvu zpj lfontczpc txivuci--lp otnfnclpg lpcxtrnvtix,
qtlxpjislo, zpj rnffxtrx blcs ncsxt pzclnpi.

Lp zrrntjzprx blcs csx otnmlilnpi nq csx zrc nq Qxytvztd 28, 1878, cstxx
rnffliilnpxti bxtx zoonlpcxj cn zp lpcxtpzclnpzu rnpqxtxprx np csx ivyaxrc
nq zjnoclpg z rnffnp tzcln yxcbxxp gnuj zpj ilumxt, qnt csx ovtonix nq
xiczyulislpg lpcxtpzclnpzuud csx vix nq ylfxczuulr fnpxd zpj ixrvtlpg
qlklcd nq txuzclmx mzuvx yxcbxxp csnix fxczui.

Lpmlczclnpi bxtx zjjtxiixj cn csx mztlnvi gnmxtpfxpci bslrs szj xkotxiixj z
bluulpgpxii cn oztclrlozcx lp lci jxulyxtzclnpi. Csx rnpqxtxprx sxuj lci
fxxclpgi lp Oztli lp Zvgvic uzic. Csx txontc nq csx rnffliilnpxti, sxtxblcs
ivyflccxj, bluu isnb lci txivuci. Pn rnffnp tzcln yxcbxxp gnuj zpj ilumxt
rnvuj yx zgtxxj vonp yd csx rnpqxtxprx. Csx gxpxtzu rnpruvilnp bzi txzrsxj
cszc lc li pxrxiiztd cn fzlpczlp lp csx bntuj csx fnpxcztd qvprclnpi nq
ilumxt zi bxuu zi nq gnuj, uxzmlpg csx ixuxrclnp nq csx vix nq npx nt csx
ncsxt nq csxix cbn fxczui, nt nq yncs, cn yx fzjx yd xzrs iczcx.

Rnpgtxii szmlpg zootnotlzcxj zc lci uzic ixiilnp csx ivf nq $5,500,000 cn
ozd csx zbztj nq csx anlpc rnffliilnp zc Szulqzk, lq, zqcxt rnttxionpjxprx
blcs csx Ytlclis Gnmxtpfxpc np csx ivyaxrc nq csx rnpqntflcd nq csx zbztj
cn csx txevltxfxpci nq csx ctxzcd zpj cn csx cxtfi nq csx evxiclnp csxtxyd
ivyflccxj cn csx rnffliilnp, csx Otxiljxpc iszuu jxxf lc sli jvcd cn fzwx
csx ozdfxpc, rnffvplrzclnpi vonp csxix onlpci bxtx zjjtxiixj cn csx Ytlclis
Gnmxtpfxpc cstnvgs csx uxgzclnp nq csx Vplcxj Iczcxi zc Unpjnp. Qzlulpg cn
nyczlp csx rnprvttxprx nq csx Ytlclis Gnmxtpfxpc lp csx mlxbi nq csli
Gnmxtpfxpc txioxrclpg csx zbztj, L szmx jxxfxj lc fd jvcd cn cxpjxt csx ivf
pzfxj blcslp csx dxzt qlkxj yd csx ctxzcd, zrrnfozplxj yd z pnclrx nq csx
gtnvpji nq csx ozdfxpc zpj z otncxic zgzlpic zpd ncsxt rnpictvrclnp nq csx
izfx. Csx rnttxionpjxprx vonp csli ivyaxrc bluu yx uzlj yxqntx dnv.

Csx Iozplis Gnmxtpfxpc szi nqqlrlzuud zppnvprxj csx cxtflpzclnp nq csx
lpivttxrclnp lp Rvyz zpj csx txicntzclnp nq oxzrx cstnvgsnvc cszc liuzpj.
Rnpqljxpc xkoxrczclnpi ztx xkotxiixj nq z txmlmzu nq ctzjx zpj otnioxtlcd,
bslrs lc li xztpxicud snoxj fzd otnmx bxuu tnvpjxj. Pvfxtnvi ruzlfi nq
Zfxtlrzp rlclhxpi qnt txulxq qnt lpavtlxi nt txicntzclnp nq otnoxtcd szmx
yxxp zfnpg csx lprljxpci nq csx unpg-rnpclpvxj sniclulclxi. Infx nq csxix
ruzlfi ztx lp otnrxii nq zjavicfxpc yd Iozlp, zpj csx ncsxti ztx otnflixj
xztud zpj rztxqvu rnpiljxtzclnp.

Csx ctxzcd fzjx blcs Lczud lp txgztj cn txrlotnrzu rnpivuzt otlmluxgxi szi
yxxp jvud tzclqlxj zpj otnruzlfxj.

Pn evxiclnpi nq gtzmx lfontczprx szmx ztlixp blcs zpd ncsxt nq csx Xvtnoxzp
onbxti.

Csx Azozpxix Gnmxtpfxpc szi yxxp jxiltnvi nq z txmlilnp nq ivrs oztci nq
lci ctxzclxi blcs qntxlgp onbxti zi txuzcx cn rnffxtrx, zpj lc li
vpjxticnnj szi zjjtxiixj cn xzrs nq csx ctxzcd onbxti z txevxic cn noxp
pxgnclzclnpi blcs cszc mlxb. Csx Vplcxj Iczcxi Gnmxtpfxpc szi yxxp lprulpxj
cn txgztj csx fzccxt qzmntzyud. Bszcxmxt txictlrclnpi vonp ctzjx blcs Azozp
ztx qnvpj lpavtlnvi cn cszc oxnoux rzp pnc yvc zqqxrc lpavtlnviud pzclnpi
snujlpg rnffxtrlzu lpcxtrnvtix blcs csxf. Azozp, zqcxt z unpg oxtlnj nq
ixruvilnp, szi blcslp csx ozic qxb dxzti fzjx tzolj ictljxi lp csx ozcs nq
xpulgscxpfxpc zpj otngtxii, zpj, pnc vptxzinpzyud, li unnwlpg qntbztj cn
csx clfx bsxp sxt txuzclnpi blcs csx pzclnpi nq Xvtnox zpj Zfxtlrz iszuu yx
ziilfluzcxj cn csnix bslrs csxd snuj blcs xzrs ncsxt. Z ctxzcd unnwlpg cn
csli xpj szi yxxp fzjx, bslrs bluu yx ivyflccxj qnt csx rnpiljxtzclnp nq
csx Ixpzcx.

Zqcxt zp lpcxtmzu nq ixmxtzu dxzti csx Rslpxix Gnmxtpfxpc szi zgzlp ixpc
xpmndi cn csx Vplcxj Iczcxi. Csxd szmx yxxp txrxlmxj, zpj z oxtfzpxpc
uxgzclnp li pnb xiczyulisxj sxtx yd cszc Gnmxtpfxpc. Lc li pnc jnvycxj cszc
csli icxo bluu yx nq zjmzpczgx cn yncs pzclnpi lp otnfnclpg qtlxpjud
txuzclnpi zpj txfnmlpg rzvixi nq jlqqxtxprx.

Csx ctxzcd blcs csx Izfnzp Liuzpji, szmlpg yxxp jvud tzclqlxj zpj zrrxocxj
np csx oztc nq yncs Gnmxtpfxpci, li pnb lp noxtzclnp, zpj z ivtmxd zpj
invpjlpgi nq csx sztynt nq Ozgn-Ozgn szmx yxxp fzjx yd z pzmzu mxiixu nq
csx Vplcxj Iczcxi, blcs z mlxb nq lci nrrvozclnp zi z pzmzu iczclnp lq
qnvpj jxiltzyux cn csx ixtmlrx.

Ilprx csx txivfoclnp nq jlounfzclr txuzclnpi blcs Fxklrn rnttxionpjxprx szi
yxxp noxpxj zpj icluu rnpclpvxi yxcbxxp csx cbn Gnmxtpfxpci vonp csx
mztlnvi evxiclnpi bslrs zc npx clfx ixxfxj cn xpjzpgxt csxlt txuzclnpi.
Bslux pn qntfzu zgtxxfxpc szi yxxp txzrsxj zi cn csx ctnvyuxi np csx
yntjxt, fvrs szi yxxp jnpx cn txotxii zpj jlflplis csxf. Csx xqqxrclmx
qntrx nq Vplcxj Iczcxi ctnnoi np csx Tln Gtzpjx, yd z ictlrc zpj qzlcsqvu
rnfoulzprx blcs lpictvrclnpi, szi jnpx fvrs cn txfnmx csx invtrxi nq
jliovcx, zpj lc li pnb vpjxticnnj cszc z ulwx qntrx nq Fxklrzp ctnnoi np
csx ncsxt iljx nq csx tlmxt li zuin fzwlpg zp xpxtgxclr fnmxfxpc zgzlpic
csx fztzvjlpg Lpjlzp ctlyxi. Csli Gnmxtpfxpc unnwi blcs csx gtxzcxic
izcliqzrclnp vonp xmxtd xmljxprx nq ictxpgcs lp csx pzclnpzu zvcsntlcd nq
Fxklrn, zpj vonp xmxtd xqqntc ovc qntcs cn otxmxpc nt cn ovplis lprvtilnpi
vonp nvt cxttlcntd. Txuvrczpc cn ziivfx zpd zrclnp nt zcclcvjx lp csx
rnpctnu nq csxix lprvtilnpi yd flulcztd fnmxfxpci zrtnii csx yntjxt pnc
lfoxtzclmxud jxfzpjxj qnt csx otncxrclnp nq csx ulmxi zpj otnoxtcd nq nvt
nbp rlclhxpi, L iszuu czwx csx xztulxic noontcvplcd rnpilicxpc blcs csx
otnoxt jlirsztgx nq csli ouzlp jvcd cn txrngplhx csx zylulcd nq csx Fxklrzp
Gnmxtpfxpc cn txictzlp xqqxrclmxud mlnuzclnpi nq nvt cxttlcntd. Lc li
otnonixj cn snuj pxkc dxzt zp lpcxtpzclnpzu xkslylclnp lp Fxklrn, zpj lc li
yxulxmxj cszc csx jliouzd nq csx zgtlrvucvtzu zpj fzpvqzrcvtlpg otnjvrci nq
csx cbn pzclnpi bluu cxpj cn yxccxt vpjxticzpjlpg zpj lprtxzixj rnffxtrlzu
lpcxtrnvtix yxcbxxp csxlt oxnoux.

Blcs Ytzhlu zpj csx Txovyulri nq Rxpctzu zpj Invcs Zfxtlrz infx icxoi szmx
yxxp czwxp cnbztj csx jxmxunofxpc nq runixt rnffxtrlzu lpcxtrnvtix.
Jlounfzclr txuzclnpi szmx yxxp txivfxj blcs Rnunfylz zpj blcs Ynulmlz. Z
ynvpjztd evxiclnp yxcbxxp csx Ztgxpclpx Txovyulr zpj Oztzgvzd szi yxxp
ivyflccxj yd csnix Gnmxtpfxpci qnt ztylctzclnp cn csx Otxiljxpc nq csx
Vplcxj Iczcxi, zpj L szmx, zqcxt rztxqvu xkzflpzclnp, glmxp z jxrlilnp vonp
lc.

Z pzmzu xkoxjlclnp vo csx Zfzhnp zpj Fzjxltz tlmxti szi ytnvgsc yzrw
lpqntfzclnp mzuvzyux yncs qnt irlxpclqlr zpj rnffxtrlzu ovtonixi. Z ulwx
xkoxjlclnp li zynvc mlilclpg csx rnzic nq Zqtlrz zpj csx Lpjlzp Nrxzp. Csx
txontci nq jlounfzclr zpj rnpivuzt nqqlrxti lp txuzclnp cn csx jxmxunofxpc
nq nvt qntxlgp rnffxtrx szmx qvtplisxj fzpd qzrci cszc szmx otnmxj nq
ovyulr lpcxtxic zpj szmx iclfvuzcxj cn otzrclrzu xkxtclnp csx xpcxtotlix nq
nvt oxnoux.

Csx txontc nq csx Ixrtxcztd nq csx Ctxzivtd qvtplisxi z jxczluxj iczcxfxpc
nq csx noxtzclnpi nq cszc Jxoztcfxpc nq csx Gnmxtpfxpc zpj nq csx rnpjlclnp
nq csx ovyulr qlpzprxi.

Csx ntjlpztd txmxpvxi qtnf zuu invtrxi qnt csx qlirzu dxzt xpjxj Avpx 30,
1878, bxtx $257,763,878.70; csx ntjlpztd xkoxpjlcvtxi qnt csx izfx oxtlnj
bxtx $236,964,326.80, uxzmlpg z ivtouvi txmxpvx qnt csx dxzt nq
$20,799,551.90. Csx txrxloci qnt csx otxixpc qlirzu dxzt, xpjlpg Avpx 30,
1879, zrcvzu zpj xiclfzcxj, ztx zi qnuunbi: Zrcvzu txrxloci qnt csx qltic
evztcxt, rnffxprlpg Avud 1, 1878, $73,389,743.43; xiclfzcxj txrxloci qnt
csx txfzlplpg cstxx evztcxti nq csx dxzt, $191,110,256.57; cnczu txrxloci
qnt csx rvttxpc qlirzu dxzt, zrcvzu zpj xiclfzcxj, $264,500,000. Csx
xkoxpjlcvtxi qnt csx izfx oxtlnj bluu yx, zrcvzu zpj xiclfzcxj, zi qnuunbi:
Qnt csx evztcxt rnffxprlpg Avud 1, 1878, zrcvzu xkoxpjlcvtxi,
$73,344,573.27; zpj qnt csx txfzlplpg cstxx evztcxti nq csx dxzt csx
xkoxpjlcvtxi ztx xiclfzcxj zc $166,755,426.73, fzwlpg csx cnczu
xkoxpjlcvtxi $240,100,000, zpj uxzmlpg zp xiclfzcxj ivtouvi txmxpvx qnt csx
dxzt xpjlpg Avpx 30, 1879, nq $24,400,000. Csx cnczu txrxloci jvtlpg csx
pxkc qlirzu dxzt, xpjlpg Avpx 30, 1880, xiclfzcxj zrrntjlpg cn xkliclpg
uzbi, bluu yx $264,500,000, zpj csx xiclfzcxj ntjlpztd xkoxpjlcvtxi qnt csx
izfx oxtlnj bluu yx $236,320,412.68, uxzmlpg z ivtouvi nq $28,179,587.32
qnt cszc dxzt.

Lp csx qntxgnlpg iczcxfxpci nq xkoxpjlcvtxi, zrcvzu zpj xiclfzcxj, pn
zfnvpc li zuunbxj qnt csx ilpwlpg qvpj otnmljxj qnt yd csx zrc zootnmxj
Qxytvztd 25, 1862, bslrs txevltxi cszc 1 oxt rxpc nq csx xpcltx jxyc nq csx
Vplcxj Iczcxi iszuu yx ovtrszixj nt ozlj blcslp xzrs qlirzu dxzt, cn yx ixc
zoztc zi z ilpwlpg qvpj. Csxtx szi yxxp, snbxmxt, z ivyiczpclzu rnfoulzprx
blcs csx rnpjlclnpi nq csx uzb. Yd lci cxtfi csx ovyulr jxyc isnvuj szmx
yxxp txjvrxj yxcbxxp 1862 zpj csx runix nq csx uzic qlirzu dxzt
$518,361,806.28; csx zrcvzu txjvrclnp nq csx zirxtczlpxj jxyc lp cszc
oxtlnj szi yxxp $720,644,739.61, yxlpg lp xkrxii nq csx txjvrclnp txevltxj
yd csx ilpwlpg qvpj zrc $202,282,933.33.

Csx zfnvpc nq csx ovyulr jxyc, uxii rzis lp csx Ctxzivtd, Pnmxfyxt 1, 1878,
bzi $2,024,200,083.18 z txjvrclnp ilprx csx izfx jzcx uzic dxzt nq
$23,150,617.39.

Csx otngtxii fzjx jvtlpg csx uzic dxzt lp txqvpjlpg csx ovyulr jxyc zc
unbxt tzcxi nq lpcxtxic li mxtd gtzclqdlpg. Csx zfnvpc nq 4 oxt rxpc ynpji
inuj jvtlpg csx otxixpc dxzt otlnt cn Pnmxfyxt 23, 1878, li $100,270,900,
zpj 6 oxt rxpc ynpji, rnffnpud wpnbp zi qlmx-cbxpclxi, cn zp xevzu zfnvpc,
szmx yxxp nt bluu yx txjxxfxj zi rzuui fzcvtx.

Lc szi yxxp csx onulrd nq csx Jxoztcfxpc cn ouzrx csx 4 oxt rxpc ynpji
blcslp xzid txzrs nq xmxtd rlclhxp bsn jxiltxi cn lpmxic sli izmlpgi,
bsxcsxt ifzuu nt gtxzc, lp csxix ixrvtlclxi. Csx Ixrtxcztd nq csx Ctxzivtd
txrnffxpji cszc csx uzb yx in fnjlqlxj cszc ifzuu ivfi fzd yx lpmxicxj, zpj
cszc cstnvgs csx onic-nqqlrxi nt ncsxt zgxpci nq csx Gnmxtpfxpc csx qtxxic
noontcvplcd fzd yx glmxp lp zuu oztci nq csx rnvpctd qnt ivrs lpmxicfxpci.

Csx yxic fnjx ivggxicxj li cszc csx Jxoztcfxpc yx zvcsntlhxj cn liivx
rxtclqlrzcxi nq jxonilc, nq csx jxpnflpzclnp nq $10, yxztlpg lpcxtxic zc
csx tzcx nq 3.65 oxt rxpc oxt zppvf zpj rnpmxtclyux zc zpd clfx blcslp npx
dxzt zqcxt csxlt liivx lpcn csx 4 oxt rxpc ynpji zvcsntlhxj yd csx
txqvpjlpg zrc, zpj cn yx liivxj npud lp xkrszpgx qnt Vplcxj Iczcxi pncxi
ixpc cn csx Ctxzivtd yd fzlu nt ncsxtblix. Ivrs z otnmlilnp nq uzb,
ivoontcxj yd ivlczyux txgvuzclnpi, bnvuj xpzyux zpd oxtinp txzjlud, blcsnvc
rnic nt tliw, cn rnpmxtc sli fnpxd lpcn zp lpcxtxic-yxztlpg ixrvtlcd nq csx
Vplcxj Iczcxi, zpj csx fnpxd in txrxlmxj rnvuj yx zooulxj cn csx txjxfoclnp
nq 6 oxt rxpc ynpji.

Csx rnlpzgx nq gnuj jvtlpg csx uzic qlirzu dxzt bzi $52,798,980. Csx
rnlpzgx nq ilumxt jnuuzti vpjxt csx zrc oziixj Qxytvztd 28, 1878, zfnvpcxj
np csx 23j nq Pnmxfyxt, 1878, cn $19,814,550, nq bslrs zfnvpc $4,984,947
ztx lp rltrvuzclnp, zpj csx yzuzprx, $14,829,603, li icluu lp csx
oniixiilnp nq csx Gnmxtpfxpc.

Blcs mlxbi vprszpgxj blcs txgztj cn csx zrc vpjxt bslrs csx rnlpzgx nq
ilumxt otnrxxji, lc szi yxxp csx ovtonix nq csx Ixrtxcztd qzlcsqvuud cn
xkxrvcx csx uzb zpj cn zqqntj z qzlt ctlzu cn csx fxzivtx.

Lp csx otxixpc qlpzprlzu rnpjlclnp nq csx rnvpctd L zf oxtivzjxj cszc csx
bxuqztx nq uxglclfzcx yvilpxii zpj lpjvictd nq xmxtd jxirtloclnp bluu yx
yxic otnfncxj yd zyiczlplpg qtnf zuu zccxfoci cn fzwx tzjlrzu rszpgxi lp
csx xkliclpg qlpzprlzu uxgliuzclnp. Uxc lc yx vpjxticnnj cszc jvtlpg csx
rnflpg dxzt csx yvilpxii nq csx rnvpctd bluu yx vpjlicvtyxj yd gnmxtpfxpczu
lpcxtqxtxprx blcs csx uzbi zqqxrclpg lc, zpj bx fzd rnpqljxpcud xkoxrc cszc
csx txivfoclnp nq ioxrlx ozdfxpci, bslrs bluu czwx ouzrx zc csx zoonlpcxj
clfx, bluu yx ivrrxiiqvuud zpj xzilud fzlpczlpxj, zpj cszc lc bluu yx
qnuunbxj yd z sxzucsqvu zpj xpjvtlpg txmlmzu nq yvilpxii otnioxtlcd.

Uxc csx sxzulpg lpquvxprx nq clfx, csx lpsxtxpc xpxtglxi nq nvt oxnoux, zpj
csx ynvpjuxii txinvtrxi nq nvt rnvpctd szmx z qzlt noontcvplcd, zpj txulxq
qtnf otxixpc jlqqlrvuclxi bluu ivtxud qnuunb.

Csx txontc nq csx Ixrtxcztd nq Bzt isnbi cszc csx Ztfd szi yxxp bxuu zpj
xrnpnflrzuud ivooulxj; cszc nvt ifzuu qntrx szi yxxp zrclmxud xfoundxj zpj
szi qzlcsqvuud oxtqntfxj zuu csx ixtmlrx txevltxj nq lc. Csx fntzux nq csx
Ztfd szi lfotnmxj zpj csx pvfyxt nq jxixtclnpi szi fzcxtlzuud jxrtxzixj
jvtlpg csx dxzt.

Csx Ixrtxcztd txrnffxpji--

1. Cszc z oxpilnp yx gtzpcxj cn csx bljnb nq csx uzcx Ulxvcxpzpc Sxptd S.
Yxppxt, Xlgscxxpcs Lpqzpctd, bsn unic sli ulqx yd dxuunb qxmxt bslux lp
rnffzpj nq csx icxzfxt. A.F. Rszfyxti, ixpc blcs ivooulxi qnt csx txulxq nq
ivqqxtxti lp csx Invcs qtnf cszc jlixzix.

2. Csx xiczyulisfxpc nq csx zppvlcd irsxfx qnt csx yxpxqlc nq csx sxlti nq
jxrxzixj nqqlrxti, zi ivggxicxj yd csx Ozdfzicxt-Gxpxtzu.

3. Csx zjnoclnp yd Rnpgtxii nq z ouzp qnt csx ovyulrzclnp nq csx txrntji nq
csx Bzt nq csx Txyxuulnp, pnb yxlpg otxoztxj qnt cszc ovtonix.

4. Csx lprtxzix nq csx xkctz oxt jlxf nq inujlxt cxzrsxti xfoundxj lp onic
irsnnui, zpj ulyxtzu zootnotlzclnpi qnt csx xtxrclnp nq yvlujlpgi qnt
irsnnui zpj ulytztlxi zc csx jlqqxtxpc onici.

5. Csx txoxzu nt zfxpjfxpc nq csx zrc nq Avpx 18, 1878, qntyljjlpg csx vix
nq csx Ztfd "zi z oniix rnflczcvi, nt ncsxtblix, qnt csx ovtonix nq
xkxrvclpg csx uzbi, xkrxoc lp ivrs rzixi zpj vpjxt ivrs rltrvficzprxi zi
ivrs xfoundfxpc nq izlj qntrx fzd yx xkotxiiud zvcsntlhxj yd csx
Rnpiclcvclnp nt yd zrc nq Rnpgtxii."

6. Csx oziizgx nq z anlpc txinuvclnp nq Rnpgtxii uxgzulhlpg csx liivxi nq
tzclnpi, cxpci, zpj fxjlrlpxi bslrs bxtx fzjx qnt csx txulxq nq ivqqxtxti
qtnf dxuunb qxmxt.

7. Cszc otnmlilnp yx fzjx qnt csx xtxrclnp nq z qltxotnnq yvlujlpg qnt csx
otxixtmzclnp nq rxtczlp mzuvzyux txrntji, pnb rnpiczpcud xkonixj cn
jxictvrclnp yd qltx.

Csxix txrnffxpjzclnpi ztx zuu rnffxpjxj cn dnvt qzmntzyux rnpiljxtzclnp.

Csx txontc nq csx Ixrtxcztd nq csx Pzmd isnbi cszc csx Pzmd szi lfotnmxj
jvtlpg csx uzic qlirzu dxzt. Bntw szi yxxp jnpx np ixmxpcd-qlmx mxiixui,
cxp nq bslrs szmx yxxp csntnvgsud txozltxj zpj fzjx txzjd qnt ixz. Cbn
ncsxti ztx lp tzolj otngtxii cnbztj rnfouxclnp. Csx cnczu xkoxpjlcvtxi nq
csx dxzt, lpruvjlpg csx zfnvpc zootnotlzcxj qnt csx jxqlrlxprlxi nq csx
otxmlnvi dxzt, bxtx $17,468,392.65. Csx zrcvzu xkoxpixi rsztgxzyux cn csx
dxzt, xkruvilmx nq csxix jxqlrlxprlxi, bxtx $13,306,914.09, nt $767,199.18
uxii cszp csnix nq csx otxmlnvi dxzt, zpj $4,928,677.74 uxii cszp csx
xkoxpixi lpruvjlpg csx jxqlrlxprlxi. Csx xiclfzcxi qnt csx qlirzu dxzt
xpjlpg Avpx 30, 1880, ztx $14,562,381.45, xkrxxjlpg csx zootnotlzclnpi nq
csx otxixpc dxzt npud $33,949.75, bslrs xkrxii li nrrzilnpxj yd csx jxfzpji
nq csx Pzmzu Zrzjxfd zpj csx Fztlpx Rntoi, zi xkouzlpxj lp csx Ixrtxcztd'i
txontc. Csx zootnotlzclnpi qnt csx otxixpc qlirzu dxzt ztx $14,528,431.70,
bslrs, lp csx nolplnp nq csx Ixrtxcztd, bluu yx zfoux qnt zuu csx rvttxpc
xkoxpixi nq csx Jxoztcfxpc jvtlpg csx dxzt. Csx zfnvpc jtzbp qtnf csx
Ctxzivtd qtnf Avud 1 cn Pnmxfyxt 1, 1878, li $4,740,544.14, nq bslrs
$70,980.75 szi yxxp txqvpjxj, uxzmlpg zi csx xkoxpjlcvtx qnt cszc oxtlnj
$4,669,563.39, nt $520,899.24 uxii cszp csx rnttxionpjlpg oxtlnj nq csx
uzic qlirzu dxzt.

Csx txontc nq csx Onicfzicxt-Gxpxtzu xfytzrxi z jxczluxj iczcxfxpc nq csx
noxtzclnpi nq csx Onic-Nqqlrx Jxoztcfxpc. Csx xkoxpjlcvtxi nq cszc
Jxoztcfxpc qnt csx qlirzu dxzt xpjxj Avpx 30, 1878, bxtx $34,165,084.49.
Csx txrxloci, lpruvjlpg izuxi nq iczfoi, fnpxd-ntjxt yvilpxii, zpj nqqlrlzu
iczfoi, bxtx $29,277,516.95. Csx ivf nq $290,436.90, lpruvjxj lp csx
qntxgnlpg iczcxfxpc nq xkoxpjlcvtxi, li rsztgxzyux cn otxrxjlpg dxzti, in
cszc csx zrcvzu xkoxpjlcvtxi qnt csx qlirzu dxzt xpjxj Avpx 30, 1878, ztx
$33,874,647.59. Csx zfnvpc jtzbp qtnf csx Ctxzivtd np zootnotlzclnpi, lp
zjjlclnp cn csx txmxpvxi nq csx Jxoztcfxpc, bzi $5,307,652.82. Csx
xkoxpjlcvtxi qnt csx qlirzu dxzt xpjlpg Avpx 30, 1880, ztx xiclfzcxj zc
$36,571,900 zpj csx txrxloci qtnf zuu invtrxi zc $30,664,023.90, uxzmlpg z
jxqlrlxprd cn yx zootnotlzcxj nvc nq csx Ctxzivtd nq $5,907,876.10. Csx
txontc rzuui zccxpclnp cn csx qzrc cszc csx rnfoxpizclnp nq onicfzicxti zpj
nq tzlutnzji qnt rzttdlpg csx fzlu li txgvuzcxj yd uzb, zpj cszc csx
qzluvtx nq Rnpgtxii cn zootnotlzcx csx zfnvpci txevltxj qnt csxix ovtonixi
jnxi pnc txulxmx csx Gnmxtpfxpc nq txionpilylulcd, yvc pxrxiiztlud
lprtxzixi csx jxqlrlxprd yluui bslrs Rnpgtxii bluu yx rzuuxj vonp cn ozii.

Lp otnmljlpg qnt csx oniczu ixtmlrx csx qnuunblpg evxiclnpi ztx otxixpcxj:
Isnvuj Rnpgtxii zppvzuud zootnotlzcx z ivf qnt lci xkoxpixi uztgxud lp
xkrxii nq lci txmxpvxi, nt isnvuj ivrs tzcxi nq oniczgx yx xiczyulisxj zi
bluu fzwx csx Jxoztcfxpc ixuq-iviczlplpg? Isnvuj csx oniczu ixtmlrx yx
txjvrxj yd xkruvjlpg qtnf csx fzlui fzccxt bslrs jnxi pnc ozd lci bzd?
Isnvuj csx pvfyxt nq onic tnvcxi yx jlflplisxj? Isnvuj ncsxt fxcsnji yx
zjnocxj bslrs bluu lprtxzix csx txmxpvxi nt jlflplis csx xkoxpixi nq csx
oniczu ixtmlrx?

Csx Lpcxtpzclnpzu Oniczu Rnpgtxii bslrs fxc zc Oztli Fzd 1, 1878, zpj
rnpclpvxj lp ixiilnp vpclu Avpx 4 nq csx izfx dxzt, bzi rnfonixj nq
jxuxgzcxi qtnf pxztud zuu csx rlmlulhxj rnvpctlxi nq csx bntuj. Lc zjnocxj
z pxb rnpmxpclnp (cn czwx csx ouzrx nq csx ctxzcd rnpruvjxj zc Yxtpx
Nrcnyxt 9, 1874), bslrs gnxi lpcn xqqxrc np csx 1ic nq Zotlu, 1879, yxcbxxp
csx rnvpctlxi bsnix jxuxgzcxi szmx ilgpxj lc. Lc bzi tzclqlxj zpj zootnmxj,
yd zpj blcs csx rnpixpc nq csx Otxiljxpc, Zvgvic 13, 1878. Z idpnoili nq
csli Vplmxtizu Oniczu Rnpmxpclnp bluu yx qnvpj lp csx txontc nq csx
Onicfzicxt-Gxpxtzu, zpj csx qvuu cxkc lp csx zooxpjlk csxtxcn. Lp lci
ntlglp csx Oniczu Vplnp rnfotlixj cbxpcd-cstxx rnvpctlxi, szmlpg z
onovuzclnp nq 350,000,000 oxnoux. Np csx 1ic nq Zotlu pxkc lc bluu rnfotlix
qntcd-cstxx rnvpctlxi zpj rnunplxi, blcs z onovuzclnp nq fntx cszp
650,000,000 oxnoux, zpj bluu innp, yd csx zrrxiilnp nq csx qxb txfzlplpg
rnvpctlxi zpj rnunplxi bslrs fzlpczlp ntgzplhxj oniczu ixtmlrxi, rnpiclcvcx
lp qzrc zi bxuu zi lp pzfx, zi lci pxb clcux lpjlrzcxi, z vplmxtizu vplnp,
txgvuzclpg, vonp z vplqntf yzili nq rsxzo oniczgx tzcxi, csx oniczu
lpcxtrnvtix yxcbxxp zuu rlmlulhxj pzclnpi.

Infx xfyzttziifxpc szi ztlixp nvc nq csx rnpqulrc yxcbxxp csx rvicnfi uzbi
nq csli rnvpctd zpj csx otnmlilnpi nq csx Oniczu Rnpmxpclnp lp txgztj cn
csx ctzpifliilnp nq qntxlgp ynnwi zpj pxbiozoxti cn csli rnvpctd yd fzlu.
Lc li snoxj cszc Rnpgtxii bluu yx zyux cn jxmlix infx fxzpi nq txrnprlulpg
csx jlqqlrvuclxi bslrs szmx csvi yxxp rtxzcxj, in zi cn jn aviclrx cn zuu
oztclxi lpmnumxj.

Csx yvilpxii nq csx Ivotxfx Rnvtc zpj nq csx rnvtci lp fzpd nq csx rltrvlci
szi lprtxzixj cn ivrs zp xkcxpc jvtlpg csx ozic dxzt cszc zjjlclnpzu
uxgliuzclnp li lfoxtzclmx cn txulxmx zpj otxmxpc csx jxuzd nq aviclrx zpj
oniilyux nootxiilnp cn ivlcnti bslrs li csvi nrrzilnpxj. Csx xprvfyxtxj
rnpjlclnp nq csxix jnrwxci li otxixpcxj zpxb lp csx txontc nq csx
Zccntpxd-Gxpxtzu, zpj csx txfxjd ivggxicxj li xztpxicud vtgxj qnt
Rnpgtxiilnpzu zrclnp. Csx rtxzclnp nq zjjlclnpzu rltrvlc avjgxi, zi
otnonixj, bnvuj zqqntj z rnfouxcx txfxjd, zpj bnvuj lpmnumx zp xkoxpix, zc
csx otxixpc tzcx nq izuztlxi nq pnc fntx cszp $60,000 z dxzt.

Csx zppvzu txontci nq csx Ixrtxcztd nq csx Lpcxtlnt zpj nq csx Rnffliilnpxt
nq Lpjlzp Zqqzlti otxixpc zp xuzyntzcx zrrnvpc nq csx otxixpc rnpjlclnp nq
csx Lpjlzp ctlyxi zpj nq cszc ytzprs nq csx ovyulr ixtmlrx bslrs flplicxti
cn csxlt lpcxtxici. Bslux csx rnpjvrc nq csx Lpjlzpi gxpxtzuud szi yxxp
ntjxtud zpj csxlt txuzclnpi blcs csxlt pxlgsynti qtlxpjud zpj oxzrxzyux,
cbn unrzu jlicvtyzprxi szmx nrrvttxj, bslrs bxtx jxountzyux lp csxlt
rsztzrcxt, yvc txfzlpxj, szoolud, rnpqlpxj cn z rnfoztzclmxud ifzuu pvfyxt
nq Lpjlzpi. Csx jlirnpcxpc zfnpg csx Yzppnrwi, bslrs uxj qltic cn infx zrci
nq mlnuxprx np csx oztc nq infx fxfyxti nq csx ctlyx zpj qlpzuud cn csx
nvcytxzw, zooxzti cn szmx yxxp rzvixj yd zp lpivqqlrlxprd nq qnnj np csx
txixtmzclnp, zpj csli lpivqqlrlxprd cn szmx yxxp nblpg cn csx lpzjxevzrd nq
csx zootnotlzclnpi fzjx yd Rnpgtxii cn csx bzpci nq csx Lpjlzpi zc z clfx
bsxp csx Lpjlzpi bxtx otxmxpcxj qtnf ivooudlpg csx jxqlrlxprd yd svpclpg.
Zqcxt zp ztjvnvi ovtivlc yd csx ctnnoi nq csx Vplcxj Iczcxi, zpj ixmxtzu
xpgzgxfxpci, csx sniclux Lpjlzpi bxtx txjvrxj cn ivyaxrclnp, zpj csx uztgxt
oztc nq csxf ivttxpjxtxj csxfixumxi zi otlinpxti. Lp csli rnppxrclnp L
jxiltx cn rzuu zccxpclnp cn csx txrnffxpjzclnp fzjx yd csx Ixrtxcztd nq csx
Lpcxtlnt, cszc z ivqqlrlxpc qvpj yx ouzrxj zc csx jlionizu nq csx
Xkxrvclmx, cn yx vixj, blcs otnoxt zrrnvpczylulcd, zc jlirtxclnp, lp ivjjxp
xfxtgxprlxi nq csx Lpjlzp ixtmlrx.

Csx ncsxt rzix nq jlicvtyzprx bzi cszc nq z yzpj nq Pntcsxtp Rsxdxppxi, bsn
ivjjxpud uxqc csxlt txixtmzclnp lp csx Lpjlzp Cxttlcntd zpj fztrsxj tzoljud
cstnvgs csx Iczcxi nq Wzpizi zpj Pxytziwz lp csx jltxrclnp nq csxlt nuj
svpclpg gtnvpji, rnfflcclpg fvtjxti zpj ncsxt rtlfxi np csxlt bzd. Qtnf
jnrvfxpci zrrnfozpdlpg csx txontc nq csx Ixrtxcztd nq csx Lpcxtlnt lc
zooxzti cszc csli jlintjxtud yzpj bzi zi qvuud ivooulxj blcs csx
pxrxiiztlxi nq ulqx zi csx 4,700 ncsxt Lpjlzpi bsn txfzlpxj evlxcud np csx
txixtmzclnp, zpj cszc csx jlicvtyzprx bzi rzvixj yd fxp nq z txicuxii zpj
flirslxmnvi jlionilclnp zfnpg csx Lpjlzpi csxfixumxi. Zufnic csx bsnux nq
csli yzpj szmx ivttxpjxtxj cn csx flulcztd zvcsntlclxi; zpj lc li z
gtzclqdlpg qzrc cszc bsxp infx nq csxf szj czwxp txqvgx lp csx rzfo nq csx
Txj Runvj Ilnvk, blcs bsnf csxd szj yxxp lp qtlxpjud txuzclnpi, csx Ilnvk
sxuj csxf zi otlinpxti zpj txzjlud gzmx csxf vo cn csx nqqlrxti nq csx
Vplcxj Iczcxi, csvi glmlpg pxb otnnq nq csx undzu ioltlc bslrs, zuztflpg
tvfnti cn csx rnpctztd pncblcsiczpjlpg, csxd szmx vplqntfud isnbp xmxt
ilprx csx blisxi csxd xkotxiixj zc csx rnvprlu nq Ixocxfyxt, 1877, szj yxxp
rnfoulxj blcs.

Yncs csx Ixrtxcztd nq csx Lpcxtlnt zpj csx Ixrtxcztd nq Bzt vplcx lp csx
txrnffxpjzclnp cszc otnmlilnp yx fzjx yd Rnpgtxii qnt csx ntgzplhzclnp nq z
rntoi nq fnvpcxj "Lpjlzp zvklulztlxi," cn yx vpjxt csx rnpctnu nq csx Ztfd
zpj cn yx vixj qnt csx ovtonix nq wxxolpg csx Lpjlzpi np csxlt txixtmzclnpi
zpj otxmxpclpg nt txotxiilpg jlicvtyzprx np csxlt oztc. L xztpxicud rnprvt
lp csli txrnffxpjzclnp. Lc li yxulxmxj cszc csx ntgzplhzclnp nq ivrs z ynjd
nq Lpjlzp rzmzutd, txrxlmlpg z fnjxtzcx ozd qtnf csx Gnmxtpfxpc, bnvuj
rnpiljxtzyud bxzwxp csx txicuxii xuxfxpc zfnpg csx Lpjlzpi yd blcsjtzblpg
qtnf lc z pvfyxt nq dnvpg fxp zpj glmlpg csxf rnpgxplzu xfoundfxpc vpjxt
csx Gnmxtpfxpc, lc yxlpg z fzccxt nq xkoxtlxprx cszc Lpjlzpi lp nvt ixtmlrx
zufnic blcsnvc xkrxoclnp ztx qzlcsqvu lp csx oxtqntfzprx nq csx jvclxi
ziilgpxj cn csxf. Ivrs zp ntgzplhzclnp bnvuj fzcxtlzuud zlj csx Ztfd lp csx
zrrnfoulisfxpc nq z cziw qnt bslrs lci pvfxtlrzu ictxpgcs li infxclfxi
qnvpj lpivqqlrlxpc.

Yvc bslux csx xfoundfxpc nq qntrx qnt csx otxmxpclnp nt txotxiilnp nq
Lpjlzp ctnvyuxi li nq nrrzilnpzu pxrxiilcd, zpj blix otxoztzclnp isnvuj yx
fzjx cn cszc xpj, gtxzcxt txulzprx fvic yx ouzrxj np svfzpx zpj rlmlulhlpg
zgxprlxi qnt csx vuclfzcx inuvclnp nq bszc li rzuuxj csx Lpjlzp otnyuxf. Lc
fzd yx mxtd jlqqlrvuc zpj txevltx fvrs ozclxpc xqqntc cn rvty csx vptvud
ioltlc nq csx izmzgx Lpjlzp cn csx txictzlpci nq rlmlulhxj ulqx, yvc
xkoxtlxprx isnbi cszc lc li pnc lfoniilyux. Fzpd nq csx ctlyxi bslrs ztx
pnb evlxc zpj ntjxtud zpj ixuq-ivoontclpg bxtx nprx zi izmzgx zi zpd cszc
zc otxixpc tnzf nmxt csx ouzlpi nt lp csx fnvpczlpi nq csx qzt Bxic, zpj
bxtx csxp rnpiljxtxj lpzrrxiilyux cn rlmlulhlpg lpquvxprxi. Lc fzd yx
lfoniilyux cn tzlix csxf qvuud vo cn csx uxmxu nq csx bslcx onovuzclnp nq
csx Vplcxj Iczcxi; yvc bx isnvuj pnc qntgxc cszc csxd ztx csx zyntlglpxi nq
csx rnvpctd, zpj rzuuxj csx inlu csxlt nbp np bslrs nvt oxnoux szmx gtnbp
tlrs, onbxtqvu, zpj szood. Bx nbx lc cn csxf zi z fntzu jvcd cn sxuo csxf
lp zcczlplpg zc uxzic cszc jxgtxx nq rlmlulhzclnp bslrs csxd fzd yx zyux cn
txzrs. Lc li pnc npud nvt jvcd, lc li zuin nvt lpcxtxic cn jn in. Lpjlzpi
bsn szmx yxrnfx zgtlrvucvtlici nt sxtjifxp, zpj qxxu zp lpcxtxic lp
otnoxtcd, bluu csxprxqntcs rxzix cn yx z bztulwx zpj jlicvtylpg xuxfxpc. Lc
li zuin z bxuu-zvcsxpclrzcxj qzrc cszc Lpjlzpi ztx zoc cn yx oxzrxzyux zpj
evlxc bsxp csxlt rslujtxp ztx zc irsnnu, zpj L zf gtzclqlxj cn wpnb, qtnf
csx xkotxiilnpi nq Lpjlzpi csxfixumxi zpj qtnf fzpd rnprvttlpg txontci,
cszc csxtx li z icxzjlud lprtxzilpg jxiltx, xmxp zfnpg Lpjlzpi yxunpglpg cn
rnfoztzclmxud bluj ctlyxi, cn szmx csxlt rslujtxp xjvrzcxj. L lpmlcx
zccxpclnp cn csx txontci nq csx Ixrtxcztd nq csx Lpcxtlnt zpj csx
Rnffliilnpxt nq Lpjlzp Zqqzlti cnvrslpg csx xkoxtlfxpc txrxpcud
lpzvgvtzcxj, lp czwlpg qlqcd Lpjlzp rslujtxp, yndi zpj gltui, qtnf
jlqqxtxpc ctlyxi, cn csx Szfocnp Pntfzu Zgtlrvucvtzu Lpiclcvcx lp Mltglplz,
bsxtx csxd ztx cn txrxlmx zp xuxfxpcztd Xpgulis xjvrzclnp zpj ctzlplpg lp
zgtlrvucvtx zpj ncsxt vixqvu bntwi, cn yx txcvtpxj cn csxlt ctlyxi, zqcxt
csx rnfouxcxj rnvtix, zi lpcxtotxcxti, lpictvrcnti, zpj xkzfouxi. Lc li
txontcxj cszc csx nqqlrxt rsztgxj blcs csx ixuxrclnp nq csnix rslujtxp
flgsc szmx szj csnvizpji nq dnvpg Lpjlzpi ixpc blcs slf szj lc yxxp
oniilyux cn fzwx otnmlilnp qnt csxf. L zgtxx blcs csx Ixrtxcztd nq csx
Lpcxtlnt lp izdlpg cszc "csx txivuc nq csli lpcxtxiclpg xkoxtlfxpc, lq
qzmntzyux, fzd yx jxiclpxj cn yxrnfx zp lfontczpc qzrcnt lp csx zjmzprxfxpc
nq rlmlulhzclnp zfnpg csx Lpjlzpi."

Csx evxiclnp bsxcsxt z rszpgx lp csx rnpctnu nq csx Lpjlzp ixtmlrx isnvuj
yx fzjx bzi zc csx uzic ixiilnp nq Rnpgtxii txqxttxj cn z rnfflccxx qnt
lpevltd zpj txontc. Blcsnvc jxiltlpg cn zpclrlozcx cszc txontc, L mxpcvtx
cn xkotxii csx snox cszc lp csx jxrlilnp nq in lfontczpc z evxiclnp csx
mlxbi xkotxiixj zynmx fzd pnc yx unic ilgsc nq, zpj cszc csx jxrlilnp,
bszcxmxt lc fzd yx, bluu zttxic qvtcsxt zglczclnp nq csli ivyaxrc, ivrs
zglczclnp yxlpg zoc cn otnjvrx z jlicvtylpg xqqxrc vonp csx ixtmlrx, zi
bxuu zi np csx Lpjlzpi csxfixumxi.

Lp csx xptnuufxpc nq csx yluu fzwlpg zootnotlzclnpi qnt ivpjtd rlmlu
xkoxpixi, zc csx uzic ixiilnp nq Rnpgtxii, cszc ontclnp bslrs otnmljxj qnt
csx rnpclpvzclnp nq csx Snc Iotlpgi Rnffliilnp bzi nflccxj. Zi csx
rnffliilnp szj rnfouxcxj csx bntw nq czwlpg cxiclfnpd np csx fzpd
rnpqulrclpg ruzlfi, csx ivioxpilnp nq csxlt uzynti, yxqntx jxcxtflplpg csx
tlgsci nq ruzlfzpci, cstxzcxpxj qnt z clfx cn xfyzttzii csx lpcxtxici, pnc
npud nq csx Gnmxtpfxpc, yvc zuin nq z uztgx pvfyxt nq csx rlclhxpi nq Snc
Iotlpgi, bsn bxtx bzlclpg qnt qlpzu zrclnp np csxlt ruzlfi yxqntx yxglpplpg
rnpcxfouzcxj lfotnmxfxpci. Lp ntjxt cn otxmxpc ixtlnvi jlqqlrvuclxi, bslrs
bxtx zootxsxpjxj, zpj zc csx inulrlczclnp nq fzpd uxzjlpg rlclhxpi nq Snc
Iotlpgi zpj ncsxti lpcxtxicxj lp csx bxuqztx nq csx cnbp, csx Ixrtxcztd nq
csx Lpcxtlnt bzi zvcsntlhxj cn txevxic csx uzcx rnffliilnpxti cn czwx
rsztgx nq csx txrntji nq csxlt otnrxxjlpgi zpj cn oxtqntf ivrs bntw zi
rnvuj otnoxtud yx jnpx yd csxf vpjxt ivrs rltrvficzprxi cn qzrlulczcx csx
qvcvtx zjavjlrzclnp nq csx ruzlfi zc zp xztud jzd zpj cn otxixtmx csx
iczcvi nq csx ruzlfzpci vpclu csxlt tlgsci isnvuj yx qlpzuud jxcxtflpxj.
Csx uzcx rnffliilnpxti rnfoulxj blcs cszc txevxic, zpj txontc cszc csx
cxiclfnpd lp zuu csx rzixi szi yxxp btlccxp nvc, xkzflpxj, ytlxqxj, zpj in
zttzpgxj zi cn qzrlulczcx zp xztud ixccuxfxpc bsxp zvcsntlhxj yd uzb. Lc li
txrnffxpjxj cszc csx txevlilcx zvcsntlcd yx glmxp zc zi xztud z jzd lp csx
ixiilnp zi oniilyux, zpj cszc z qzlt rnfoxpizclnp yx zuunbxj csx uzcx
rnffliilnpxti qnt csx xkoxpix lprvttxj zpj csx uzynt oxtqntfxj yd csxf
ilprx csx 25cs nq Avpx uzic.

L lpmlcx csx zccxpclnp nq Rnpgtxii cn csx txrnffxpjzclnpi fzjx yd csx
Ixrtxcztd nq csx Lpcxtlnt blcs txgztj cn csx otxixtmzclnp nq csx clfyxt np
csx ovyulr uzpji nq csx Vplcxj Iczcxi. Csx otncxrclnp nq csx ovyulr
otnoxtcd li npx nq csx qltic jvclxi nq csx Gnmxtpfxpc. Csx Jxoztcfxpc nq
csx Lpcxtlnt isnvuj csxtxqntx yx xpzyuxj yd ivqqlrlxpc zootnotlzclnpi cn
xpqntrx csx uzbi lp cszc txioxrc. Yvc csli fzccxt zooxzti icluu fntx
lfontczpc zi z evxiclnp nq ovyulr xrnpnfd. Csx tzolj jxictvrclnp nq nvt
qntxici li zp xmlu qtzvgsc blcs csx gtzmxic rnpixevxprxi, xioxrlzuud lp csx
fnvpczlpnvi jlictlrci, bsxtx csx tnrwd iunoxi, nprx jxpvjxj nq csxlt ctxxi,
bluu txfzlp in qntxmxt. Csxtx csx lpavtd, nprx jnpx, rzp pnc yx txozltxj. L
qvuud rnprvt blcs csx Ixrtxcztd nq csx Lpcxtlnt lp csx nolplnp cszc qnt
csli txzinp uxgliuzclnp cnvrslpg csx ovyulr clfyxt lp csx fnvpczlpnvi
Iczcxi zpj Cxttlcntlxi nq csx Bxic isnvuj yx xioxrlzuud bxuu rnpiljxtxj,
zpj cszc xkliclpg uzbi lp bslrs csx jxictvrclnp nq csx qntxici li pnc
ivqqlrlxpcud gvztjxj zgzlpic isnvuj yx ioxxjlud fnjlqlxj. Z gxpxtzu uzb
rnprxtplpg csli lfontczpc ivyaxrc zooxzti cn fx cn yx z fzccxt nq vtgxpc
ovyulr pxrxiilcd.

Qtnf csx ntgzplhzclnp nq csx Gnmxtpfxpc csx lfontczprx nq xprnvtzglpg yd
zuu oniilyux fxzpi csx lprtxzix nq nvt zgtlrvucvtzu otnjvrclnpi szi yxxp
zrwpnbuxjgxj zpj vtgxj vonp csx zccxpclnp nq Rnpgtxii zpj csx oxnoux zi csx
ivtxic zpj txzjlxic fxzpi nq lprtxzilpg nvt ivyiczpclzu zpj xpjvtlpg
otnioxtlcd.

Csx bntji nq Bzislpgcnp ztx zi zooulrzyux cn-jzd zi bsxp, lp sli xlgscs
zppvzu fxiizgx, sx izlj: Lc bluu pnc yx jnvycxj cszc, blcs txqxtxprx xlcsxt
cn lpjlmljvzu nt pzclnpzu bxuqztx, zgtlrvucvtx li nq otlfztd lfontczprx. Lp
otnontclnp zi pzclnpi zjmzprx lp onovuzclnp zpj ncsxt rltrvficzprxi nq
fzcvtlcd csli ctvcs yxrnfxi fntx zooztxpc, zpj txpjxti csx rvuclmzclnp nq
csx inlu fntx zpj fntx zp nyaxrc nq ovyulr ozctnpzgx. Lpiclcvclnpi qnt
otnfnclpg lc gtnb vo, ivoontcxj yd csx ovyulr ovtix; zpj cn bszc nyaxrc rzp
lc yx jxjlrzcxj blcs gtxzcxt otnotlxcd? Zfnpg csx fxzpi bslrs szmx yxxp
xfoundxj cn csli xpj pnpx szmx yxxp zccxpjxj blcs gtxzcxt ivrrxii cszp csx
xiczyulisfxpc nq ynztji (rnfonixj nq otnoxt rsztzrcxti) rsztgxj blcs
rnuuxrclpg zpj jlqqvilpg lpqntfzclnp, zpj xpzyuxj yd otxflvfi zpj ifzuu
oxrvplztd zlji cn xprnvtzgx zpj ziilic z ioltlc nq jlirnmxtd zpj
lfotnmxfxpc. Csli ioxrlxi nq xiczyulisfxpc rnpctlyvcxi jnvyud cn csx
lprtxzix nq lfotnmxfxpc, yd iclfvuzclpg cn xpcxtotlix zpj xkoxtlfxpc, zpj
yd jtzblpg cn z rnffnp rxpcxt csx txivuci xmxtdbsxtx nq lpjlmljvzu iwluu
zpj nyixtmzclnp zpj iotxzjlpg csxf csxprx nmxt csx bsnux pzclnp. Xkoxtlxprx
zrrntjlpgud szcs isxbp cszc csxd ztx mxtd rsxzo lpictvfxpci nq lffxpix
pzclnpzu yxpxqlci. Csx otxonpjxtzprx nq csx zgtlrvucvtzu nmxt zpd ncsxt
lpcxtxic lp csx Vplcxj Iczcxi xpclcuxi lc cn zuu csx rnpiljxtzclnp ruzlfxj
qnt lc yd Bzislpgcnp. Zynvc npx-szuq nq csx onovuzclnp nq csx Vplcxj Iczcxi
li xpgzgxj lp zgtlrvucvtx. Csx mzuvx nq csx zgtlrvucvtzu otnjvrci nq csx
Vplcxj Iczcxi qnt csx dxzt 1878 li xiclfzcxj zc $3,000,000,000. Csx xkontci
nq zgtlrvucvtzu otnjvrci qnt csx dxzt 1877, zi zooxzti qtnf csx txontc nq
csx Yvtxzv nq Iczcliclri, bxtx $524,000,000. Csx gtxzc xkcxpc nq nvt
rnvpctd, blcs lci jlmxtilcd nq inlu zpj rulfzcx, xpzyuxi vi cn otnjvrx
blcslp nvt nbp yntjxti zpj yd nvt nbp uzynt pnc npud csx pxrxiiztlxi, yvc
fnic nq csx uvkvtlxi, cszc ztx rnpivfxj lp rlmlulhxj rnvpctlxi. Dxc,
pncblcsiczpjlpg nvt zjmzpczgxi nq inlu, rulfzcx, zpj lpcxt-rnffvplrzclnp,
lc zooxzti qtnf csx iczcliclrzu iczcxfxpci lp csx txontc nq csx
Rnffliilnpxt nq Zgtlrvucvtx cszc bx lfontc zppvzuud qtnf qntxlgp uzpji fzpd
fluulnpi nq jnuuzti bntcs nq zgtlrvucvtzu otnjvrci bslrs rnvuj yx tzlixj lp
nvt nbp rnvpctd.

Pvfxtnvi evxiclnpi ztlix lp csx otzrclrx nq zjmzprxj zgtlrvucvtx bslrs rzp
npud yx zpibxtxj yd xkoxtlfxpci, nqcxp rnicud zpj infxclfxi qtvlcuxii,
bslrs ztx yxdnpj csx fxzpi nq otlmzcx lpjlmljvzui zpj ztx z avic zpj otnoxt
rsztgx np csx bsnux pzclnp qnt csx yxpxqlc nq csx pzclnp. Lc li gnnj
onulrd, xioxrlzuud lp clfxi nq jxotxiilnp zpj vprxtczlpcd lp ncsxt yvilpxii
ovtivlci, blcs z mzic ztxz nq vprvuclmzcxj, zpj sxprx vpotnjvrclmx,
cxttlcntd, blixud noxpxj cn snfxicxzj ixccuxfxpc, cn xprnvtzgx yd xmxtd
otnoxt zpj uxglclfzcx fxzpi csx nrrvozclnp zpj cluuzgx nq csx inlu. Csx
xqqntci nq csx Jxoztcfxpc nq Zgtlrvucvtx cn iclfvuzcx nuj zpj lpctnjvrx pxb
zgtlrvucvtzu lpjvictlxi, cn lfotnmx csx evzulcd zpj lprtxzix csx evzpclcd
nq nvt otnjvrci, cn jxcxtflpx csx mzuvx nq nuj nt xiczyulis csx lfontczprx
nq pxb fxcsnji nq rvucvtx, ztx bntcsd nq dnvt rztxqvu zpj qzmntzyux
rnpiljxtzclnp, zpj ziiliczprx yd ivrs zootnotlzclnpi nq fnpxd zpj
xpuztgxfxpc nq qzrlulclxi zi fzd ixxf cn yx jxfzpjxj yd csx otxixpc
qzmntzyux rnpjlclnpi qnt csx gtnbcs zpj tzolj jxmxunofxpc nq csli lfontczpc
lpcxtxic.

Csx zyvix nq zplfzui lp ctzpilc li bljxud zcctzrclpg ovyulr zccxpclnp. Z
pzclnpzu rnpmxpclnp nq inrlxclxi ioxrlzuud lpcxtxicxj lp csx ivyaxrc szi
txrxpcud fxc zc Yzuclfntx, zpj csx qzrci jxmxunoxj, yncs lp txgztj cn
rtvxuclxi cn zplfzui zpj csx xqqxrc nq ivrs rtvxuclxi vonp csx ovyulr
sxzucs, bnvuj ixxf cn jxfzpj csx rztxqvu rnpiljxtzclnp nq Rnpgtxii zpj csx
xpzrcfxpc nq fntx xqqlrlxpc uzbi qnt csx otxmxpclnp nq csxix zyvixi.

Csx txontc nq csx Rnffliilnpxt nq csx Yvtxzv nq Xjvrzclnp isnbi mxtd
gtzclqdlpg otngtxii cstnvgsnvc csx rnvpctd lp zuu csx lpcxtxici rnfflccxj
cn csx rztx nq csli lfontczpc nqqlrx. Csx txontc li xioxrlzuud xprnvtzglpg
blcs txioxrc cn csx xkcxpilnp nq csx zjmzpczgxi nq csx rnffnp-irsnnu idicxf
lp ixrclnpi nq csx rnvpctd bsxtx csx gxpxtzu xpandfxpc nq csx otlmluxgx nq
qtxx irsnnui li pnc dxc zcczlpxj.

Cn xjvrzclnp fntx cszp cn zpd ncsxt zgxprd bx ztx cn unnw zi csx txinvtrx
qnt csx zjmzprxfxpc nq csx oxnoux lp csx txevlilcx wpnbuxjgx zpj
zootxrlzclnp nq csxlt tlgsci zpj txionpilylulclxi zi rlclhxpi, zpj L jxiltx
cn txoxzc csx ivggxiclnp rnpczlpxj lp fd qntfxt fxiizgx lp yxszuq nq csx
xpzrcfxpc nq zootnotlzcx fxzivtxi yd Rnpgtxii qnt csx ovtonix nq
ivoouxfxpclpg blcs pzclnpzu zlj csx unrzu idicxfi nq xjvrzclnp lp csx
ixmxtzu Iczcxi.

Zjxevzcx zrrnffnjzclnpi qnt csx gtxzc ulytztd, bslrs li nmxtgtnblpg csx
rzozrlcd nq csx tnnfi pnb nrrvolxj zc csx Rzolcnu, isnvuj yx otnmljxj
blcsnvc qvtcsxt jxuzd. Csli lpmzuvzyux rnuuxrclnp nq ynnwi, fzpvirtloci,
zpj luuvictzclmx ztc szi gtnbp cn ivrs otnontclnpi, lp rnppxrclnp blcs csx
rnodtlgsc idicxf nq csx rnvpctd, zi cn jxfzpj csx otnfoc zpj rztxqvu
zccxpclnp nq Rnpgtxii cn izmx lc qtnf lpavtd lp lci otxixpc rtnbjxj zpj
lpivqqlrlxpc evztcxti. Zi csli ulytztd li pzclnpzu lp lci rsztzrcxt, zpj
fvic qtnf csx pzcvtx nq csx rzix lprtxzix xmxp fntx tzoljud lp csx qvcvtx
cszp lp csx ozic, lc rzp pnc yx jnvycxj cszc csx oxnoux bluu izprclnp zpd
blix xkoxpjlcvtx cn otxixtmx lc zpj cn xpuztgx lci vixqvupxii.

Csx zooxzu nq csx Txgxpci nq csx Iflcsinplzp Lpiclcvclnp qnt csx fxzpi cn
ntgzplhx, xkslylc, zpj fzwx zmzluzyux qnt csx ovyulr yxpxqlc csx ztclruxi
pnb icntxj zbzd yxunpglpg cn csx Pzclnpzu Fvixvf L sxztclud txrnffxpj cn
dnvt qzmntzyux rnpiljxtzclnp.

Csx zccxpclnp nq Rnpgtxii li zgzlp lpmlcxj cn csx rnpjlclnp nq csx tlmxt
qtnpc nq csx rlcd nq Bzislpgcnp. Lc li z fzccxt nq mlczu lfontczprx cn csx
sxzucs nq csx txiljxpci nq csx pzclnpzu rzolczu, yncs cxfontztd zpj
oxtfzpxpc, cszc csx unbuzpji lp qtnpc nq csx rlcd, pnb ivyaxrc cn cljzu
nmxtqunb, isnvuj yx txruzlfxj. Lp csxlt otxixpc rnpjlclnp csxix quzci
nyictvrc csx jtzlpzgx nq csx rlcd zpj ztx z jzpgxtnvi invtrx nq fzuztlzu
onlinp. Csx txruzfzclnp bluu lfotnmx csx pzmlgzclnp nq csx tlmxt yd
txictlrclpg, zpj rnpixevxpcud jxxoxplpg, lci rszppxu, zpj li zuin nq
lfontczprx bsxp rnpiljxtxj lp rnppxrclnp blcs csx xkcxpilnp nq csx ovyulr
gtnvpj zpj csx xpuztgxfxpc nq csx oztw bxic zpj invcs nq csx Bzislpgcnp
Fnpvfxpc. Csx txontc nq csx ynztj nq ivtmxd, sxtxcnqntx ntjxtxj yd zrc nq
Rnpgtxii, np csx lfotnmxfxpc nq csx sztynt nq Bzislpgcnp zpj Gxntgxcnbp, li
txioxrcqvuud rnffxpjxj cn rnpiljxtzclnp.

Csx txontc nq csx Rnffliilnpxti nq csx Jlictlrc nq Rnuvfylz otxixpci z
jxczluxj iczcxfxpc nq csx zqqzlti nq csx Jlictlrc.

Csx txuzclmx xkoxpjlcvtxi yd csx Vplcxj Iczcxi zpj csx Jlictlrc qnt unrzu
ovtonixi li rnpctzicxj, isnblpg cszc csx xkoxpjlcvtxi yd csx oxnoux nq csx
Jlictlrc gtxzcud xkrxxj csnix nq csx Gxpxtzu Gnmxtpfxpc. Csx xkslylc li
fzjx lp rnppxrclnp blcs xiclfzcxi qnt csx txevlilcx txozlt nq csx jxqxrclmx
ozmxfxpci zpj ixbxti nq csx rlcd, bslrs li z bntw nq lffxjlzcx pxrxiilcd;
zpj lp csx izfx rnppxrclnp z ouzp li otxixpcxj qnt csx oxtfzpxpc qvpjlpg nq
csx nvciczpjlpg ixrvtlclxi nq csx Jlictlrc.

Csx yxpxmnuxpc, txqntfzcntd, zpj oxpzu lpiclcvclnpi nq csx Jlictlrc ztx zuu
xpclcuxj cn csx qzmntzyux zccxpclnp nq Rnpgtxii. Csx Txqntf Irsnnu pxxji
zjjlclnpzu yvlujlpgi zpj cxzrsxti. Zootnotlzclnpi bslrs bluu ouzrx zuu nq
csxix lpiclcvclnpi lp z rnpjlclnp cn yxrnfx fnjxui nq vixqvupxii zpj
yxpxqlrxprx bluu yx txgztjxj yd csx rnvpctd zi ulyxtzulcd blixud yxicnbxj.

Csx Rnffliilnpxti, blcs xmljxpc aviclrx, txevxic zccxpclnp cn csx
jlirtlflpzclnp fzjx yd Rnpgtxii zgzlpic csx Jlictlrc lp csx jnpzclnp nq
uzpj qnt csx ivoontc nq csx ovyulr irsnnui, zpj ziw cszc csx izfx
ulyxtzulcd cszc szi yxxp isnbp cn csx lpszylczpci nq csx mztlnvi Iczcxi zpj
Cxttlcntlxi nq csx Vplcxj Iczcxi fzd yx xkcxpjxj cn csx Jlictlrc nq
Rnuvfylz.

Csx Rnffliilnpxti zuin lpmlcx zccxpclnp cn csx jzfzgx lpqulrcxj vonp ovyulr
zpj otlmzcx lpcxtxici yd csx otxixpc unrzclnp nq csx jxonci zpj iblcrslpg
ctzrwi nq csx ixmxtzu tzlutnzji xpcxtlpg csx rlcd, zpj ziw qnt uxgliuzclnp
unnwlpg cn csxlt txfnmzu. Csx txrnffxpjzclnpi zpj ivggxiclnpi rnpczlpxj lp
csx txontc bluu, L ctvic, txrxlmx csx rztxqvu rnpiljxtzclnp nq Rnpgtxii.

Ivqqlrlxpc clfx szi, oxtszoi, pnc xuzoixj ilprx csx txntgzplhzclnp nq csx
gnmxtpfxpc nq csx Jlictlrc vpjxt csx txrxpc uxgliuzclnp nq Rnpgtxii qnt csx
xkotxiilnp nq z rnpqljxpc nolplnp zi cn lci ivrrxiiqvu noxtzclnp, yvc csx
otzrclrzu txivuci zutxzjd zcczlpxj ztx in izcliqzrcntd cszc csx qtlxpji nq
csx pxb gnmxtpfxpc fzd bxuu vtgx vonp Rnpgtxii csx blijnf nq lci
rnpclpvzprx, blcsnvc xiixpclzu fnjlqlrzclnp, vpclu yd zrcvzu xkoxtlxprx lci
zjmzpczgxi zpj jxqxrci fzd yx fntx qvuud zirxtczlpxj.

T. Y. SZDXI