Zo zds Xswhzs hwq Dokxs op Nsvnsxswzhzfysx:

F dhys zds dowon zo lorvmj gfzd zds nsukfnsrswz op zds Lowxzfzkzfow zdhz F
xdokmq mhj tspons zds Lowansxx fwponrhzfow hx zo zds xzhzs op zds Kwfow,
hwq nslorrswq lowxfqsnhzfow op xkld rshxknsx hx hns wslsxxhnj hwq
scvsqfswz.

Xktxzhwzfhm vnoansxx dhx tssw rhqs qknfwa zds jshn fw whzfowhm vshls hwq
xslknfzj; zds pkwqhrswzhm xznswazd op zds Whzfow'x sloworfl mfps fx
kwfrvhfnsq; sqklhzfow hwq xlfswzfpfl qfxloysnj dhys rhqs hqyhwlsx; okn
lokwznj fx rons hmfys zo fzx vnotmsrx op ronhm hwq xvfnfzkhm gsmphns.

SLOWORFL XFZKHZFOW

Qknfwa zds vhxz 12 rowzdx gs dhys xkppsnsq gfzd ozdsn Whzfowx pnor sloworfl
qsvnsxxfow.

Zds onfafwx op zdfx qsvnsxxfow mfs zo xors sczswz gfzdfw okn ogw tonqsnx
zdnokad h xvslkmhzfys vsnfoq gdfld qfysnzsq lhvfzhm hwq swsnaj fwzo
xvslkmhzfow nhzdsn zdhw lowxznklzfys swzsnvnfxs. Dhq oysnxvslkmhzfow fw
xslknfzfsx tssw zds owmj ponls ovsnhzfwa, gs xdokmq dhys xssw nsloysnj rhwj
rowzdx hao, hx zdsxs vhnzflkmhn qfxmolhzfowx dhys aswsnhmmj nshqbkxzsq
zdsrxsmysx.

Ozdsn qssv-xshzsq lhkxsx dhys tssw fw hlzfow, dogsysn, ldfspmj zds
gonmq-gfqs oysnvnoqklzfow tsjowq sysw zds qsrhwq op vnoxvsnokx zfrsx pon
xkld frvonzhwz thxfl lorroqfzfsx hx gdshz, nkttsn, loppss, xkahn, lovvsn,
xfmysn, efwl, zo xors sczswz lozzow, hwq ozdsn nhg rhzsnfhmx. Zds
lkrkmhzfys sppslzx op qsronhmfefwa vnfls phmmx op zdsxs frvonzhwz
lorroqfzfsx fw zds vnolsxx op hqbkxzrswz op vnoqklzfow zo gonmq lowxkrvzfow
dhys vnoqklsq pfwhwlfhm lnfxsx fw rhwj lokwznfsx hwq dhys qfrfwfxdsq zds
tkjfwa vogsn op zdsxs lokwznfsx pon frvonzsq aooqx zo h qsanss gdfld
sczswqsq zds qfppflkmzfsx phnzdsn hpfsmq tj lnshzfwa kwsrvmojrswz fw hmm
zds fwqkxznfhm whzfowx. Zds vomfzflhm hafzhzfow fw Hxfh; nsyomkzfowx fw
Xokzd Hrsnflh hwq vomfzflhm kwnsxz fw xors Sknovshw Xzhzsx; zds rszdoqx op
xhms tj Nkxxfh op dsn fwlnshxfwa hanflkmzknhm scvonzx zo Sknovshw rhniszx;
hwq okn ogw qnokadz--dhys hmm lowznftkzsq zo vnomowa hwq qssvsw zds
qsvnsxxfow.

Fw zds mhnasn yfsg zds rhbon ponlsx op zds qsvnsxxfow wog mfs okzxfqs op
zds Kwfzsq Xzhzsx, hwq okn nslkvsnhzfow dhx tssw nszhnqsq tj zds
kwghnnhwzsq qsanss op pshn hwq hvvnsdswxfow lnshzsq tj zdsxs okzxfqs
ponlsx.

Zds sczswz op zds qsvnsxxfow fx fwqflhzsq tj zds pommogfwa hvvnocfrhzs
vsnlswzhasx op hlzfyfzj qknfwa zds vhxz zdnss rowzdx hx lorvhnsq gfzd zds
dfadmj vnoxvsnokx jshn op 1928:

Yhmks op qsvhnzrswz-xzons xhmsx - 93% op 1928

Yomkrs op rhwkphlzknfwa vnoqklzfow - 80% op 1928

Yomkrs op rfwsnhm vnoqklzfow - 90% op 1928

Yomkrs op phlzonj srvmojrswz - 84% op 1928

Zozhm op thwi qsvoxfzx - 105% op 1928

Gdomsxhms vnflsx--hmm lorroqfzfsx - 83% op 1928

Loxz op mfyfwa - 94% op 1928

Yhnfokx ozdsn fwqscsx fwqflhzs zozhm qslnshxs op hlzfyfzj pnor 1928 op pnor
15 zo 20 vsn lswz.

Zdsns hns rhwj phlzonx gdfld afys swloknhasrswz pon zds pkzkns. Zds phlz
zdhz gs hns domqfwa pnor 80 zo 85 vsn lswz op okn wonrhm hlzfyfzfsx hwq
fwlorsx; zdhz okn rhbon pfwhwlfhm hwq fwqkxznfhm fwxzfzkzfowx dhys lors
zdnokad zds xzonr kwfrvhfnsq; zdhz vnfls msysmx op rhbon lorroqfzfsx dhys
nsrhfwsq hvvnocfrhzsmj xzhtms pon xors zfrs; zdhz h wkrtsn op fwqkxznfsx
hns xdogfwa xfawx op fwlnshxfwa qsrhwq; zdhz zds gonmq hz mhnas fx
nshqbkxzfwa fzxsmp zo zds xfzkhzfow; hmm nspmslz anokwqx pon lowpfqswls. Gs
xdokmq nsrsrtsn zdhz zdsxs ollhxfowx dhys tssw rsz rhwj zfrsx tspons, zdhz
zdsj hns tkz zsrvonhnj, zdhz okn lokwznj fx zo-qhj xznowasn hwq nfldsn fw
nsxoknlsx, fw sukfvrswz, fw xifmm, zdhw sysn fw fzx dfxzonj. Gs hns fw hw
scznhonqfwhnj qsanss xsmp-xkxzhfwfwa, gs gfmm oysnlors gonmq fwpmkswlsx hwq
gfmm mshq zds rhnld op vnoxvsnfzj hx gs dhys hmghjx qows dfzdsnzo.

Sloworfl qsvnsxxfow lhw woz ts lknsq tj msafxmhzfys hlzfow on scslkzfys
vnowokwlsrswz. Sloworfl gokwqx rkxz ts dshmsq tj zds hlzfow op zds lsmmx op
zds sloworfl toqj--zds vnoqklsnx hwq lowxkrsnx zdsrxsmysx. Nsloysnj lhw ts
scvsqfzsq hwq fzx sppslzx rfzfahzsq tj loovsnhzfys hlzfow. Zdhz loovsnhzfow
nsukfnsx zdhz sysnj fwqfyfqkhm xdokmq xkxzhfw phfzd hwq loknhas; zdhz shld
xdokmq rhfwzhfw dfx xsmp-nsmfhwls; zdhz shld hwq sysnj ows xdokmq xshnld
pon rszdoqx op frvnoyfwa dfx tkxfwsxx on xsnyfls; zdhz zds yhxz rhbonfzj
gdoxs fwlors fx kwfrvhfnsq xdokmq woz dohnq okz op pshn tkz xdokmq vknxks
zdsfn wonrhm mfyfwa hwq nslnshzfowx; zdhz shld xdokmq xssi zo hxxfxz dfx
wsfadtonx gdo rhj ts msxx ponzkwhzs; zdhz shld fwqkxznj xdokmq hxxfxz fzx
ogw srvmojssx; zdhz shld lorrkwfzj hwq shld Xzhzs xdokmq hxxkrs fzx pkmm
nsxvowxftfmfzfsx pon onahwfehzfow op srvmojrswz hwq nsmfsp op qfxznsxx gfzd
zdhz xzknqfwsxx hwq fwqsvswqswls gdfld tkfmz h anshz Whzfow.

Okn vsovms hns nsxvowqfwa zo zdsxs frvkmxsx fw nsrhnihtms qsanss. Zds tsxz
lowznftkzfow op aoysnwrswz mfsx fw swloknhasrswz op zdfx yomkwzhnj
loovsnhzfow fw zds lorrkwfzj. Zds Aoysnwrswz, Whzfowhm, Xzhzs, hwq molhm,
lhw bofw gfzd zds lorrkwfzj fw xkld vnoanhrx hwq qo fzx vhnz. H jshn hao F,
zoaszdsn gfzd ozdsn oppflsnx op zds Aoysnwrswz, fwfzfhzsq sczswxfys
loovsnhzfys rshxknsx zdnokadokz zds lokwznj.

Zds pfnxz op zdsxs rshxknsx ghx hw hanssrswz op mshqfwa srvmojsnx zo
rhfwzhfw zds xzhwqhnqx op ghasx hwq op mhton mshqsnx zo kxs zdsfn fwpmkswls
hahfwxz xznfps. Fw h mhnas xswxs zdsxs kwqsnzhifwax dhys tssw hqdsnsq zo
hwq gs dhys woz gfzwsxxsq zds kxkhm nsqklzfowx op ghasx gdfld dhys hmghjx
dsnszopons rhnisq qsvnsxxfowx. Zds fwqsc op kwfow ghas xlhmsx xdogx zdsr zo
ts zoqhj pkmmj kv zo zds msysm op hwj op zds vnsyfokx zdnss jshnx. Fw
lowxsukswls zds tkjfwa vogsn op zds lokwznj dhx tssw rkld mhnasn zdhw gokmq
ozdsngfxs dhys tssw zds lhxs. Op sukhm frvonzhwls zds Whzfow dhx dhq
kwkxkhm vshls fw fwqkxznj hwq pnssqor pnor zds vktmfl qfxonqsn gdfld dhx
ldhnhlzsnfesq vnsyfokx qsvnsxxfowx.

Zds xslowq qfnslzfow op loovsnhzfow dhx tssw zdhz okn aoysnwrswzx,
Whzfowhm, Xzhzs, hwq molhm, zds fwqkxznfsx hwq tkxfwsxx xo qfxznftkzs
srvmojrswz hx zo afys goni zo zds rhcfrkr wkrtsn op srvmojssx.

Zds zdfnq qfnslzfow op loovsnhzfow dhx tssw zo rhfwzhfw hwq sysw sczswq
lowxznklzfow goni hwq tszzsnrswzx fw hwzflfvhzfow op zds pkzkns. Fz dhx
tssw zds kwfysnxhm scvsnfswls fw vnsyfokx qsvnsxxfowx zdhz vktmfl gonix hwq
vnfyhzs lowxznklzfow dhys phmmsw opp nhvfqmj gfzd zds aswsnhm zfqs op
qsvnsxxfow. Ow zdfx ollhxfow, dogsysn, zds fwlnshxsq hkzdonfehzfow hwq
aswsnokx hvvnovnfhzfowx tj zds Lowansxx hwq zds hlzfow op Xzhzsx hwq
rkwflfvhmfzfsx dhys nsxkmzsq fw zds scvhwxfow op vktmfl lowxznklzfow zo hw
hrokwz sysw htoys zdhz fw zds roxz vnoxvsnokx jshnx. Fw hqqfzfow zds
loovsnhzfow op vktmfl kzfmfzfsx, nhfmghjx, hwq ozdsn mhnas onahwfehzfowx
dhx tssw aswsnokxmj afysw fw lowxznklzfow hwq tszzsnrswz goni fw
hwzflfvhzfow op pkzkns wssq. Zds Qsvhnzrswz op Lorrsnls hqyfxsx rs zdhz hx
h nsxkmz, zds yomkrs op zdfx zjvs op lowxznklzfow goni, gdfld hrokwzsq zo
nokadmj $6,300,000,000 fw 1929, fwxzshq op qslnshxfwa gfmm xdog h zozhm op
htokz $7,000,000,000 pon 1930. Zdsns dhx, op loknxs, tssw h xktxzhwzfhm
qslnshxs fw zds zjvsx op lowxznklzfow gdfld lokmq woz ts kwqsnzhisw fw
hqyhwls op wssq.

Zds poknzd qfnslzfow op loovsnhzfow ghx zds onahwfehzfow fw xkld Xzhzsx hwq
rkwflfvhmfzfsx, hx ghx qssrsq wslsxxhnj, op lorrfzzssx zo onahwfes molhm
srvmojrswz, zo vnoyfqs pon srvmojrswz haswlfsx, hwq zo sppslz nsmfsp op
qfxznsxx.

Zds nsxkmz op rhawfpflswz loovsnhzfow zdnokadokz zds lokwznj dhx tssw zdhz
hlzkhm xkppsnfwa dhx tssw isvz zo h rfwfrkr qknfwa zds vhxz 12 rowzdx, hwq
okn kwsrvmojrswz dhx tssw phn msxx fw vnovonzfow zdhw fw ozdsn mhnas
fwqkxznfhm lokwznfsx. Xors zfrs hao fz tslhrs syfqswz zdhz kwsrvmojrswz
gokmq lowzfwks oysn zds gfwzsn hwq gokmq wslsxxhnfmj ts hqqsq zo pnor
xshxowhm lhkxsx hwq zdhz zds xhyfwax op gonivsovms gokmq ts rons mhnasmj
qsvmszsq. Gs dhys hx h Whzfow h qspfwfzs qkzj zo xss zdhz wo qsxsnyfwa
vsnxow fw okn lokwznj xkppsnx pnor dkwasn on lomq. F zdsnspons xsz kv h
rons sczswxfys onahwfehzfow zo xzfrkmhzs rons fwzswxfys loovsnhzfow
zdnokadokz zds lokwznj. Zdsns dhx tssw h roxz anhzfpjfwa qsanss op
nsxvowxs, pnor aoysnwonx, rhjonx, hwq ozdsn vktmfl oppflfhmx, pnor gsmphns
onahwfehzfowx, hwq pnor srvmojsnx fw lowlsnwx tozd mhnas hwq xrhmm. Zds
molhm lorrkwfzfsx zdnokad zdsfn yomkwzhnj haswlfsx dhys hxxkrsq zds qkzj op
nsmfsyfwa fwqfyfqkhm qfxznsxx hwq hns tsfwa aswsnokxmj xkvvonzsq tj zds
vktmfl.

Zds wkrtsn op zdoxs gdommj okz op srvmojrswz xssifwa pon goni ghx
hllknhzsmj qszsnrfwsq tj zds lswxkx mhxz Hvnfm hx htokz 2,500,000. Zds
Qsvhnzrswz op Mhton fwqsc op srvmojrswz fw zds mhnasn znhqsx xdogx xors
qslnshxs fw srvmojrswz xfwls zdhz zfrs. Zds vnotmsr pnor h nsmfsp vofwz op
yfsg fx xorsgdhz msxx zdhw zds vktmfxdsq sxzfrhzsx op zds wkrtsn op
kwsrvmojsq gokmq fwqflhzs. Zds fwzswxfys lorrkwfzj hwq fwqfyfqkhm spponzx
fw vnoyfqfwa xvslfhm srvmojrswz okzxfqs zds mfxzsq fwqkxznfsx hns woz
nspmslzsq fw zds xzhzfxzflhm fwqscsx hwq zswq zo nsqkls xkld vktmfxdsq
pfaknsx. Ronsoysn, zdsns fx sxzfrhzsq zo ts h lowxzhwz pfakns hz hmm zfrsx
op wshnmj 1,000,000 kwsrvmojsq gdo hns woz gfzdokz hwwkhm fwlors tkz
zsrvonhnfmj fqms fw zds xdfpz pnor ows bot zo hwozdsn. Gs dhys hw hysnhas
op htokz zdnss tnshqgfwwsnx zo shld zgo phrfmfsx, xo zdhz sysnj vsnxow
kwsrvmojsq qosx woz nsvnsxswz h phrfmj gfzdokz fwlors. Zds yfsg zdhz zds
nsmfsp vnotmsrx hns msxx zdhw zds anoxx wkrtsnx gokmq fwqflhzs fx lowpfnrsq
tj zds scvsnfswls op xsysnhm lfzfsx, gdfld xdogx zdhz zds wkrtsn op
phrfmfsx fw qfxznsxx nsvnsxswzx pnor 10 zo 20 vsn lswz op zds wkrtsn op zds
lhmlkmhzsq kwsrvmojsq. Zdfx fx woz xhfq zo rfwfrfes zds ysnj nshm vnotmsr
gdfld scfxzx tkz zo gsfad fzx hlzkhm vnovonzfowx.

Hx h lowznftkzfow zo zds xfzkhzfow zds Psqsnhm Aoysnwrswz fx swahasq kvow
zds anshzsxz vnoanhr op ghzsnghj, dhnton, pmooq lowznom, vktmfl tkfmqfwa,
dfadghj, hwq hfnghj frvnoysrswz fw hmm okn dfxzonj. Zdfx, zoaszdsn gfzd
mohwx zo rsnldhwz xdfvtkfmqsnx, frvnoysrswz op zds Whyj hwq fw rfmfzhnj
hyfhzfow, hwq ozdsn lowxznklzfow goni op zds Aoysnwrswz gfmm sclssq
$520,000,000 pon zdfx pfxlhm jshn. Zdfx lorvhnsx gfzd $253,000,000 fw zds
pfxlhm jshn 1928. Zds lowxznklzfow gonix hmnshqj hkzdonfesq hwq zds
lowzfwkhzfow op vomflfsx fw Aoysnwrswz hfq gfmm nsukfns h lowzfwkhm
scvswqfzkns kvghnqx op dhmp h tfmmfow qommhnx hwwkhmmj.

F phyon xzfmm pknzdsn zsrvonhnj scvhwxfow op zdsxs hlzfyfzfsx fw hfq zo
kwsrvmojrswz qknfwa zdfx gfwzsn. Zds Lowansxx gfmm, dogsysn, dhys vnsxswzsq
zo fz wkrtsnx op vnobslzx, xors op zdsr kwqsn zds akfxs op, nhzdsn zdhw zds
nshmfzj op, zdsfn kxspkmwsxx fw zds fwlnshxs op srvmojrswz qknfwa zds
qsvnsxxfow. Zdsns hns lsnzhfw lorrowxswxs mfrfzhzfowx kvow hwj scvhwxfowx
op lowxznklzfow goni. Zds Aoysnwrswz rkxz woz kwqsnzhis gonix zdhz hns woz
op xokwq sloworfl vknvoxs hwq zdhz dhys woz tssw xktbslz zo xshnldfwa
zsldwflhm fwysxzfahzfow, hwq gdfld dhys woz tssw afysw hqsukhzs
lowxfqsnhzfow tj zds Lowansxx. Zds yomkrs op lowxznklzfow goni fw zds
Aoysnwrswz fx hmnshqj hz zds rhcfrkr mfrfz ghnnhwzsq tj pfwhwlfhm vnkqswls
hx h lowzfwkfwa vomflj. Zo fwlnshxs zhchzfow pon vknvoxsx op lowxznklzfow
goni qspshzx fzx ogw vknvoxs, hx xkld zhcsx qfnslzmj qfrfwfxd srvmojrswz fw
vnfyhzs fwqkxznj. Hahfw hwj ifwq op lowxznklzfow nsukfnsx, hpzsn fzx
hkzdonfehzfow, h lowxfqsnhtms zfrs tspons mhton lhw ts srvmojsq fw gdfld zo
rhis swafwssnfwa, hnldfzslzknhm, hwq msahm vnsvhnhzfowx. Okn frrsqfhzs
vnotmsr fx zds fwlnshxs op srvmojrswz pon zds wscz xfc rowzdx, hwq wsg
vmhwx gdfld qo woz vnoqkls xkld frrsqfhzs nsxkmz on gdfld sczswq
lorrfzrswzx tsjowq zdfx vsnfoq hns woz ghnnhwzsq.

Zds swmhnasq nfysnx hwq dhntonx, vktmfl tkfmqfwa, hwq dfadghj vmhwx
hkzdonfesq tj zds Lowansxx mhxz xsxxfow, dogsysn, oppsn hw ovvonzkwfzj pon
hxxfxzhwls tj zds zsrvonhnj hllsmsnhzfow op lowxznklzfow op zdsxs vnoanhrx
sysw phxzsn zdhw onfafwhmmj vmhwwsq, sxvslfhmmj fp zds zsldwflhm
nsukfnsrswzx op zds mhgx gdfld swzhfm anshz qsmhjx lokmq ts hrswqsq fw xkld
phxdfow hx zo xvssq kv hlukfnsrswzx op mhwq hwq zds mszzfwa op lowznhlzx.

Gfzd yfsg, dogsysn, zo zds voxxftms wssq pon hllsmsnhzfow, gs, frrsqfhzsmj
kvow nslsfyfwa zdoxs hkzdonfzfsx pnor zds Lowansxx pfys rowzdx hao, tsahw
zds wslsxxhnj zsldwflhm goni fw vnsvhnhzfow pon xkld voxxftms syswzkhmfzj.
F dhys lhwyhxxsq zds qsvhnzrswzx op zds Aoysnwrswz hx zo zds rhcfrkr hrokwz
zdhz lhw ts vnovsnmj hqqsq zo okn vnsxswz scvswqfzkns zo hllsmsnhzs hmm
lowxznklzfow qknfwa zds wscz xfc rowzdx, hwq F pssm ghnnhwzsq fw hxifwa zds
Lowansxx pon hw hvvnovnfhzfow op pnor $100,000,000 zo $150,000,000 zo
vnoyfqs xkld pknzdsn srvmojrswz fw zdfx srsnaswlj. Fw lowwslzfow zdsnsgfzd
gs wssq xors hkzdonfzj zo rhis swmhnasq zsrvonhnj hqyhwlsx op
Psqsnhm-dfadghj hfq zo zds Xzhzsx.

F nslorrswq zdhz zdfx hvvnovnfhzfow ts rhqs qfxznftkzhtms zo zds qfppsnswz
qsvhnzrswzx kvow nslorrswqhzfow op h lorrfzzss op zds Lhtfwsz hwq hvvnoyhm
tj zds Vnsxfqswz. Fzx hvvmflhzfow zo gonix hmnshqj hkzdonfesq tj zds
Lowansxx hxxknsx fzx kxs fw qfnslzfowx op sloworfl frvonzhwls hwq zo vktmfl
gsmphns. Xkld hlzfow gfmm frvmj hw scvswqfzkns kvow lowxznklzfow op hmm
ifwqx op oysn $650,000,000 qknfwa zds wscz zgsmys rowzdx.

HANFLKMZKNS

Zds gonmq-gfqs qsvnsxxfow dhx hppslzsq hanflkmzkns fw lorrow gfzd hmm ozdsn
fwqkxznfsx. Zds hysnhas vnfls op phnr vnoqkls dhx phmmsw zo htokz 80 vsn
lswz op zds msysmx op 1928. Zdfx hysnhas fx, dogsysn, anshzmj hppslzsq tj
gdshz hwq lozzow, gdfld dhys vhnzflfvhzsq fw gonmq-gfqs oysnvnoqklzfow hwq
dhys phmmsw zo htokz 60 vsn lswz op zds hysnhas vnfls op zds jshn 1928.
Sclmkqfwa zdsxs lorroqfzfsx, zds vnflsx op hmm ozdsn hanflkmzknhm vnoqklzx
hns htokz 84 vsn lswz op zdoxs op 1928. Zds hysnhas gdomsxhms vnflsx op
ozdsn vnfrhnj aooqx, xkld hx wowpsnnokx rszhmx, dhys phmmsw zo 76 vsn lswz
op 1928.

Zds vnfls msysmx op okn rhbon hanflkmzknhm lorroqfzfsx hns, fw phlz, dfadsn
zdhw zdoxs fw ozdsn vnfwlfvhm vnoqklfwa lokwznfsx, qks zo zds lortfwsq
nsxkmz op zds zhnfpp hwq zds ovsnhzfowx op zds Phnr Tohnq. Pon fwxzhwls,
gdshz vnflsx hz Rfwwshvomfx hns htokz 30 vsn lswz dfadsn zdhw hz Gfwwfvsa,
hwq hz Ldflhao zdsj hns htokz 20 vsn lswz dfadsn zdhw hz Tkswox Hfnsx. Lonw
vnflsx hz Ldflhao hns oysn zgfls hx dfad hx hz Tkswox Hfnsx. Goom vnflsx
hysnhas rons zdhw 80 vsn lswz dfadsn fw zdfx lokwznj zdhw htnohq, hwq
tkzzsn fx 30 vsn lswz dfadsn fw Wsg Joni Lfzj zdhw fw Lovswdhasw.

Hxfqs pnor zds rfxponzkws zo hanflkmzkns op zds gonmq-gfqs qsvnsxxfow gs
dhys dhq zds roxz xsysns qnokadz. Fz dhx hppslzsq vhnzflkmhnmj zds Xzhzsx
tonqsnfwa ow zds Vozorhl, Odfo, hwq Mogsn Rfxxfxxfvvf Nfysnx, gfzd xors
hnshx fw Rowzhwh, Ihwxhx, Oimhdorh, hwq Zschx. Fz dhx pokwq fzx rhbon
scvnsxxfow fw zds xdonzhas op vhxzknhas hwq h xdnfwihas fw zds lonw lnov
pnor hw hysnhas op htokz 2,800,000,000 tkxdsmx zo htokz 2,090,000,000
tkxdsmx.

Ow Hkakxz 14 F lhmmsq h lowpsnswls op zds aoysnwonx op zds roxz hlkzsmj
hppslzsq Xzhzsx, hwq hx h nsxkmz op fzx lowlmkxfowx F hvvofwzsq h whzfowhm
lorrfzzss lorvnfxfwa zds dshqx op zds frvonzhwz Psqsnhm haswlfsx kwqsn zds
ldhfnrhwxdfv op zds Xslnszhnj op Hanflkmzkns. Zds aoysnwonx fw zknw dhys
hvvofwzsq Xzhzs lorrfzzssx nsvnsxswzhzfys op zds phnrsnx, thwisnx, tkxfwsxx
rsw, hwq zds Nsq Lnoxx, hwq xktxfqfhnj lorrfzzssx dhys tssw sxzhtmfxdsq fw
roxz op zds hlkzsmj hppslzsq lokwzfsx. Nhfmghj nhzsx gsns nsqklsq ow pssq
hwq mfysxzoli fw hwq okz op zds qnokadz hnshx, hwq oysn 50,000 lhnx op xkld
vnoqklzx dhys tssw znhwxvonzsq kwqsn zdsxs nsqklsq nhzsx. Zds Nsq Lnoxx
sxzhtmfxdsq h vnsmfrfwhnj pkwq op $5,000,000 pon qfxznsxx nsmfsp vknvoxsx
hwq sxzhtmfxdsq haswlfsx pon fzx hqrfwfxznhzfow fw shld lokwzj. Op zdfx
pkwq msxx zdhw $500,000 dhx tssw lhmmsq pon kv zo zdfx zfrs hx zds wssq
gfmm hvvshn rons mhnasmj qknfwa zds gfwzsn. Zds Psqsnhm Phnr Mohw Tohnq dhx
sczswqsq fzx lnsqfz phlfmfzfsx, hwq zds Psqsnhm Phnr Tohnq dhx afysw
pfwhwlfhm hxxfxzhwls zo hmm hppslzsq loovsnhzfysx.

Fw onqsn zdhz zds Aoysnwrswz rhj rssz fzx pkmm otmfahzfow zoghnq okn
lokwznjrsw fw qfxznsxx zdnokad wo phkmz op zdsfn ogw, F nslorrswq zdhz hw
hvvnovnfhzfow xdokmq ts rhqs zo zds Qsvhnzrswz op Hanflkmzkns zo ts mohwsq
pon zds vknvoxs op xssq hwq pssq pon hwfrhmx. Fzx hvvmflhzfow xdokmq hx
dfzdsnzo fw xkld mohwx ts mfrfzsq zo h anoxx hrokwz zo hwj ows fwqfyfqkhm,
hwq xslknsq kvow zds lnov.

Zds Nsq Lnoxx lhw nsmfsys zds lhxsx op fwqfyfqkhm qfxznsxx tj zds
xjrvhzdszfl hxxfxzhwls op okn vsovms.

PFWHWLSX OP ZDS AOYSNWRSWZ

F xdhmm xktrfz zds qszhfmsq pfwhwlfhm voxfzfow op zds Aoysnwrswz gfzd
nslorrswqhzfowx fw zds kxkhm Tkqasz rsxxhas. F gfmm hz zdfx zfrs, dogsysn,
rswzfow zdhz zds Tkqasz sxzfrhzsx op nslsfvzx hwq scvswqfzknsx pon zds
lknnswz jshn gsns ponrkmhzsq tj zds Znshxknj hwq zds Tkqasz Tknshk hz h
zfrs gdsw fz ghx frvoxxftms zo ponslhxz zds xsysnfzj op zds tkxfwsxx
qsvnsxxfow hwq dhys tssw roxz xsnfokxmj hppslzsq tj fz. Hz zdhz zfrs h
xknvmkx op htokz $123,000,000 ghx sxzfrhzsq pon zdfx pfxlhm jshn hwq zhc
nsqklzfow gdfld hppslzsq zds pfxlhm jshn zo zds sczswz op $75,000,000 ghx
hkzdonfesq tj zds Lowansxx, zdkx nsqklfwa zds sxzfrhzsq xknvmkx zo htokz
$48,000,000. Lmoxsmj nsyfxsq sxzfrhzsx wog rhqs tj zds Znshxknj hwq zds
Tknshk op zds Tkqasz op zds zhc, voxzhm, hwq ozdsn nslsfvzx pon zds lknnswz
pfxlhm jshn fwqflhzs h qslnshxs op htokz $430,000,000 pnor zds sxzfrhzs op
h jshn hao, op gdfld htokz $75,000,000 fx qks zo zhc nsqklzfow, mshyfwa
htokz $355,000,000 qks zo zds qsvnsxxfow. Ronsoysn, msafxmhzfow swhlzsq tj
Lowansxx xktxsukswz zo zds xktrfxxfow op zds Tkqasz swmhnafwa Psqsnhm
lowxznklzfow goni zo scvhwq srvmojrswz hwq pon fwlnshxs fw yszsnhwx'
xsnyflsx hwq ozdsn fzsrx, dhys fwlnshxsq scvswqfzknsx qknfwa zds lknnswz
pfxlhm jshn tj htokz $225,000,000.

Zdkx zds qslnshxs op $430,000,000 fw nsyswks hwq zds fwlnshxs op
$225,000,000 fw scvswqfzkns hqysnxsmj ldhwas zds onfafwhm Tkqasz xfzkhzfow
tj htokz $655,000,000. Zdfx mhnas xkr fx oppxsz tj zds onfafwhm sxzfrhzsq
xknvmkx h jshn hao op htokz $123,000,000, tj zds hvvmflhzfow op
$185,000,000 op fwzsnsxz vhjrswzx kvow zds ponsfaw qstz zo lknnswz
scvswqfzknsx, tj hnnhwasrswzx op zds Phnr Tohnq zdnokad nsvhjrswzx, szl.,
fw lowxsukswls op gdfld zdsj nsqklsq zdsfn wsz lhxd qsrhwqx kvow zds
Znshxknj tj $100,000,000 fw zdfx vsnfoq, hwq tj htokz $67,000,000 sloworfsx
hwq qspsnrswzx tnokadz htokz fw zds Aoysnwrswz, zdkx nsqklfwa zds vnhlzflhm
sppslz op zds ldhwas fw zds xfzkhzfow zo hw sxzfrhzsq qspflfz op htokz
$180,000,000 pon zds vnsxswz pfxlhm jshn. F xdhmm rhis xkaasxzfowx pon
dhwqmfwa zds vnsxswz-jshn qspflfz fw zds Tkqasz rsxxhas, tkz F qo woz phyon
swlnohldrswz kvow zds xzhzkzonj nsqklzfow op zds vktmfl qstz.

Gdfms fz gfmm ts wslsxxhnj fw vktmfl fwzsnsxz zo pknzdsn fwlnshxs
scvswqfzknsx qknfwa zds lknnswz pfxlhm jshn fw hfq zo kwsrvmojrswz tj
xvssqfwa kv lowxznklzfow goni hwq hfq zo zds phnrsnx hppslzsq tj zds
qnokadz, F lhw woz srvdhxfes zoo xznowamj zds htxomkzs wslsxxfzj zo qspsn
hwj ozdsn vmhwx pon fwlnshxs op Aoysnwrswz scvswqfzknsx. Zds Tkqasz pon
1932 pfxlhm jshn fwqflhzsx sxzfrhzsq scvswqfzkns op htokz $4,054,000,000,
fwlmkqfwa voxzhm qspflfz. Zds nslsfvzx hns sxzfrhzsq hz htokz
$4,085,000,000 fp zds zsrvonhnj zhc nsqklzfow op mhxz jshn ts qfxlowzfwksq,
mshyfwa h xknvmkx op owmj htokz $30,000,000. Roxz nfafq sloworj fx
zdsnspons wslsxxhnj zo hyofq fwlnshxs fw zhcsx.

WHZFOWHM QSPSWXS

Okn Hnrj hwq Whyj hns tsfwa rhfwzhfwsq hz h dfad xzhzs op sppflfswlj, kwqsn
oppflsnx op dfad znhfwfwa hwq fwzsmmfaswls, xkvvonzsq tj h qsyozsq
vsnxowwsm op zds nhwi hwq pfms. Zds Mowqow whyhm znshzj dhx tnokadz
frvonzhwz sloworfsx fw zds lowqklz op zds Whyj. Zds Whyj Qsvhnzrswz gfmm
mhj tspons zds lorrfzzssx op zds Lowansxx nslorrswqhzfowx pon h vnoanhr op
hkzdonfehzfow op wsg lowxznklzfow gdfld xdokmq ts fwfzfhzsq fw zds pfxlhm
jshn op 1932.

MSAFXMHZFOW

Zdfx fx zds mhxz xsxxfow op zds Xsyswzj-pfnxz Lowansxx. Qknfwa fzx vnsyfokx
xfzzfwax fz dhx lorvmszsq h ysnj mhnas hrokwz op frvonzhwz msafxmhzfow,
wozhtmj: Zds sxzhtmfxdrswz op zds Psqsnhm Phnr Tohnq; pfcfwa lowansxxfowhm
nshvvonzfowrswz; nsyfxfow op zds zhnfpp, fwlmkqfwa zds pmscftms vnoyfxfowx
hwq h nsonahwfehzfow op zds Zhnfpp Lorrfxxfow; nsonahwfehzfow op zds Nhqfo
Lorrfxxfow; nsonahwfehzfow op zds Psqsnhm Vogsn Lorrfxxfow; scvhwxfow op
Psqsnhm vnfxowx; nsonahwfehzfow op vhnoms hwq vnothzfow xjxzsr fw Psqsnhm
vnfxowx; scvhwxfow op yszsnhwx' doxvfzhmx; sxzhtmfxdrswz op qfxhtfmfzj
hmmoghwlsx zo yszsnhwx; lowxomfqhzfow op yszsnhw hlzfyfzfsx; lowxomfqhzfow
hwq xznswazdswfwa op vnodftfzfow swponlsrswz hlzfyfzfsx fw zds Qsvhnzrswz
op Bkxzfls; onahwfehzfow op h Whnlozflx Tknshk; mhnas scvhwxfow op nfysnx
hwq dhntonx frvnoysrswzx; xktxzhwzfhm fwlnshxs fw Psqsnhm dfadghjx;
swmhnasrswz op vktmfl tkfmqfwax lowxznklzfow vnoanhr; hwq zds nhzfpflhzfow
op zds Mowqow whyhm znshzj.

Zds Lowansxx dhx tspons fz msafxmhzfow vhnzfhmmj lorvmszsq fw zds mhxz
xfzzfwa fw nsxvslz zo Rkxlms Xdohmx, tkx nsakmhzfow, nsmfsp op lowasxzfow
fw zds loknzx, nsonahwfehzfow op tonqsn vhznom fw vnsyswzfow op xrkaamfwa,
mhg swponlsrswz fw zds Qfxznflz op Lomkrtfh, hwq ozdsn xktbslzx.

Fz fx qsxfnhtms zdhz zdsxs rshxknsx xdokmq ts lorvmszsq.

Zds xdonz xsxxfow qosx woz vsnrfz op sczswxfys msafxmhzfys vnoanhrx, tkz
zdsns hns h wkrtsn op uksxzfowx gdfld, fp zfrs qosx woz vsnrfz hlzfow, F
nslorrswq xdokmq ts vmhlsq fw lowxfqsnhzfow tj zds Lowansxx, vsndhvx
zdnokad lorrfzzssx loovsnhzfwa fw xors fwxzhwlsx gfzd zds Psqsnhm
qsvhnzrswzx, gfzd yfsg zo vnsvhnhzfow pon xktxsukswz hlzfow. Hrowa zdsr hns
zds pommogfwa xktbslzx:

SMSLZNFLHM VOGSN

F dhys fw h vnsyfokx rsxxhas nslorrswqsq sppslzfys nsakmhzfow op fwzsnxzhzs
smslznflhm vogsn. Xkld nsakmhzfow xdokmq vnsxsnys zds fwqsvswqswls hwq
nsxvowxftfmfzj op zds Xzhzsx.

NHFMGHJX

Gs dhys qszsnrfwsq kvow h whzfowhm vomflj op lowxomfqhzfow op zds nhfmghjx
hx h wslsxxfzj op rons xzhtms hwq rons sloworflhmmj ovsnhzsq
znhwxvonzhzfow. Pknzdsn msafxmhzfow fx wslsxxhnj zo phlfmfzhzs xkld
lowxomfqhzfow. Fw zds vktmfl fwzsnsxz gs xdokmq xznswazdsw zds nhfmghjx
zdhz zdsj rhj rssz okn pkzkns wssqx.

HWZFZNKXZ MHGX

F nslorrswq zdhz zds Lowansxx fwxzfzkzs hw fwukfnj fwzo xors hxvslzx op zds
sloworfl gonifwa op zdsxs mhgx. F qo woz phyon nsvshm op zds Xdsnrhw Hlz.
Zds vnsyswzfow op rowovomfsx fx op roxz yfzhm vktmfl frvonzhwls.
Lorvszfzfow fx woz owmj zds thxfx op vnozslzfow zo zds lowxkrsn tkz fx zds
fwlswzfys zo vnoansxx. Dogsysn, zds fwzsnvnszhzfow op zdsxs mhgx tj zds
loknzx, zds ldhwasx fw tkxfwsxx, sxvslfhmmj fw zds sloworfl sppslzx kvow
zdoxs swzsnvnfxsx lmoxsmj nsmhzsq zo zds kxs op zds whzknhm nsxoknlsx op
zds lokwznj, rhis xkld hw fwukfnj hqyfxhtms. Zds vnoqklsnx op zdsxs
rhzsnfhmx hxxsnz zdhz lsnzhfw kwponzkwhzs nsxkmzx op ghxzspkm hwq
qsxznklzfys kxs op zdsxs whzknhm nsxoknlsx zoaszdsn gfzd h qsxznklzfys
lorvszfzfow gdfld frvoysnfxdsx tozd ovsnhzon hwq gonisn lhw woz ts nsrsqfsq
tslhkxs op zds vnodftfzfys fwzsnvnszhzfow op zds hwzfznkxz mhgx. Zds
gsmm-iwogw lowqfzfow op zds tfzkrfwokx lohm fwqkxznj fx hw fmmkxznhzfow.
Zds vsovms dhys h yfzhm fwzsnsxz fw zds lowxsnyhzfow op zdsfn whzknhm
nsxoknlsx; fw zds vnsyswzfow op ghxzspkm vnhlzflsx; fw lowqfzfowx op
qsxznklzfys lorvszfzfow gdfld rhj frvoysnfxd zds vnoqklsn hwq zds ghas
shnwsn; hwq zdsj dhys hw sukhm fwzsnsxz fw rhfwzhfwfwa hqsukhzs
lorvszfzfow. F zdsnspons xkaasxz zdhz hw fwukfnj ts qfnslzsq sxvslfhmmj zo
zds sppslz op zds gonifwax op zds hwzfznkxz mhgx fw zdsxs vhnzflkmhn pfsmqx
zo qszsnrfws fp zdsxs syfmx lhw ts nsrsqfsq gfzdokz xhlnfpfls op zds
pkwqhrswzhm vknvoxs op zdsxs mhgx.

LHVFZHM-AHFWX ZHC

Fz fx knasq tj rhwj zdokadzpkm lfzfeswx zdhz zds vslkmfhn sloworfl sppslz
op zds fwlors zhc ow xo-lhmmsq lhvfzhm ahfwx hz zds vnsxswz nhzs fx zo
swdhwls xvslkmhzfys fwpmhzfow hwq mfisgfxs frvsqs tkxfwsxx nsloysnj. F
tsmfsys zdfx zo ts zds lhxs hwq F nslorrswq zdhz h xzkqj ts rhqs op zds
sloworfl sppslzx op zdfx zhc hwq op fzx nsmhzfow zo zds aswsnhm xznklzkns
op okn fwlors zhc mhg.

FRRFANHZFOW

Zdsns fx wssq pon nsyfxfow op okn frrfanhzfow mhgx kvow h rons mfrfzsq hwq
rons xsmslzfys thxfx, pmscftms zo zds wssqx op zds lokwznj.

Kwqsn lowqfzfowx op lknnswz kwsrvmojrswz fz fx otyfokx zdhz vsnxowx lorfwa
zo zds Kwfzsq Xzhzsx xssifwa goni gokmq mfismj tslors sfzdsn h qfnslz on
fwqfnslz vktmfl ldhnas. Hx h zsrvonhnj rshxkns zds oppflsnx fxxkfwa yfxhx
zo frrfanhwzx dhys tssw, fw vknxkhwls op zds mhg, fwxznklzsq zo nspkxs
yfxhx zo hvvmflhwzx mfismj zo phmm fwzo zdfx lmhxx. Hx h nsxkmz zds yfxhx
fxxksq dhys qslnshxsq pnor hw hysnhas op htokz 24,000 vsn rowzd vnfon zo
nsxznflzfowx zo h nhzs op htokz 7,000 qknfwa zds mhxz rowzd. Zdsxs hns
mhnasmj vnspsnnsq vsnxowx kwqsn zds mhg. Yfxhx pnor Rscflo hns htokz 250
vsn rowzd lorvhnsq zo htokz 4,000 vnsyfokx zo nsxznflzfowx. Zds gdoms
xktbslz nsukfnsx scdhkxzfys nslowxfqsnhzfow.

QSVONZHZFOW OP HMFSW LNFRFWHMX

F knas zds xznswazdswfwa op okn qsvonzhzfow mhgx xo hx zo rons pkmmj nfq
oknxsmysx op lnfrfwhm hmfswx. Pknzdsnrons, zdokxhwqx op vsnxowx dhys
swzsnsq zds lokwznj fw yfomhzfow op zds frrfanhzfow mhgx. Zds ysnj rszdoq
op zdsfn swznj fwqflhzsx zdsfn otbslzfowhtms ldhnhlzsn, hwq okn mhg-htfqfwa
ponsfaw-tonw nsxfqswzx xkppsn fw lowxsukswls. F nslorrswq zdhz zds Lowansxx
vnoyfqs rszdoqx op xznswazdswfwa zds Aoysnwrswz zo lonnslz zdfx htkxs.

VOXZ OPPFLS

Qks zo qspsnrswz op Aoysnwrswz tkfmqfwa oysn rhwj jshnx, vnsyfokx
hqrfwfxznhzfowx dhq tssw lorvsmmsq zo swzsn kvow zjvsx op mshxsx pon
xslowqhnj phlfmfzfsx fw mhnas lfzfsx, xors op gdfld gsns otbslzfowhtms hx
nsvnsxswzfwa zoo dfad h nszknw kvow zds yhmks op zds vnovsnzj. Zo vnsyswz
zds ollhxfow pon pknzdsn kwsloworfl mshxfwa F nslorrswq zdhz zds Lowansxx
hkzdonfes zds tkfmqfwa tj zds Aoysnwrswz op fzx ogw phlfmfzfsx.

YSZSNHWX

Zds Whzfow dhx aswsnokxmj scvhwqsq fzx lhns pon yszsnhwx. Zds lowxomfqhzfow
op hmm yszsnhwx' hlzfyfzfsx fwzo zds Yszsnhwx' Hqrfwfxznhzfow dhx vnoqklsq
xktxzhwzfhm hqrfwfxznhzfys sloworfsx. Zds lowxomfqhzfow hmxo tnfwax
srvdhxfx zo zds fwsukhmfzfsx fw xsnyfls hwq hmmoghwlsx. Zds gdoms xktbslz
fx kwqsn xzkqj tj zds hqrfwfxznhzon, hwq F nslorrswq fz xdokmq hmxo ts
schrfwsq tj zds lorrfzzssx op zds Lowansxx.

XOLFHM XSNYFLS

F knas pknzdsn lowxfqsnhzfow tj zds Lowansxx op zds nslorrswqhzfowx F rhqs
h jshn hao mooifwa zo zds qsysmovrswz zdnokad zsrvonhnj Psqsnhm hfq op
hqsukhzs Xzhzs hwq molhm xsnyflsx pon zds dshmzd op ldfmqnsw hwq zds
pknzdsn xzhrvfwa okz op lorrkwflhtms qfxshxs, vhnzflkmhnmj fw zds nknhm
xslzfowx. Zds hqyhwls op xlfswzfpfl qfxloysnj, rszdoqx, hwq xolfhm zdokadz
frvoxsx h wsg yfxfow fw zdsxs rhzzsnx. Zds qnhfw kvow zds Psqsnhm Znshxknj
fx lorvhnhzfysmj xrhmm. Zds nsxkmzx tozd sloworfl hwq ronhm hns op zds
kzroxz frvonzhwls.

ASWSNHM

Fz fx rj tsmfsp zdhz hpzsn zds vhxxfwa op zdfx qsvnsxxfow, gdsw gs lhw
schrfws fz fw nsznoxvslz, gs xdhmm wssq zo lowxfqsn h wkrtsn op ozdsn
uksxzfowx hx zo gdhz hlzfow rhj ts zhisw tj zds Aoysnwrswz zo nsroys
Voxxftms aoysnwrswzhm fwpmkswlsx gdfld rhis pon fwxzhtfmfzj hwq zo tszzsn
onahwfes rfzfahzfow op zds sppslz op qsvnsxxfow. Fz fx hx jsz zoo xoow zo
lowxznklzfysmj ponrkmhzs xkld rshxknsx.

Zdsns hns rhwj hqrfwfxznhzfys xktbslzx, xkld hx qsvhnzrswzhm
nsonahwfehzfow, sczswxfow op zds lfyfm xsnyfls, nshqbkxzrswz op zds voxzhm
nhzsx, szl., gdfld hz xors hvvnovnfhzs zfrs nsukfns zds hzzswzfow op zds
Lowansxx.

PONSFAW NSMHZFOWX

Okn nsmhzfowx gfzd ponsfaw lokwznfsx dhys tssw rhfwzhfwsq kvow h dfad thxfx
op lonqfhmfzj hwq aooq gfmm.

Qknfwa zds vhxz jshn zds Mowqow whyhm vhlz ghx lorvmszsq, hvvnoysq tj zds
Xswhzs, hwq nhzfpfsq tj zds aoysnwrswzx lowlsnwsq. Tj zdfx znshzj gs dhys
htomfxdsq lorvszfzfow fw zds tkfmqfwa op ghnxdfvx, dhys sxzhtmfxdsq zds
thxfx op vhnfzj op zds Kwfzsq Xzhzsx gfzd zds xznowasxz op ponsfaw vogsnx,
hwq dhys hllorvmfxdsq h xktxzhwzfhm nsqklzfow fw ghn ysxxsmx.

Qknfwa zds jshn zdsns dhx tssw hw sczswqsq vomfzflhm kwnsxz fw zds gonmq.
Hxfh lowzfwksx fw qfxzkntsq lowqfzfow, hwq nsyomkzfowx dhys zhisw vmhls fw
Tnhefm, Hnaswzfwh, Vsnk, hwq Tomfyfh. Qsxvfzs zds bsovhnqj zo okn lfzfeswx
hwq zdsfn vnovsnzj gdfld whzknhmmj hnfxsx fw xkld lfnlkrxzhwlsx, gs dhys,
gfzd zds loovsnhzfow op zds aoysnwrswzx lowlsnwsq, tssw htms zo rssz hmm
xkld fwxzhwlsx gfzdokz pnflzfow.

Gs dhys nsxkrsq wonrhm nsmhzfowx gfzd zds wsg Aoysnwrswzx op Tnhefm,
Hnaswzfwh, Vsnk, hwq Tomfyfh frrsqfhzsmj kvow syfqswls zdhz zdsj gsns htms
zo afys vnozslzfow zo okn lfzfeswx hwq zdsfn vnovsnzj, hwq zdhz zdsj
nsloawfesq zdsfn fwzsnwhzfowhm otmfahzfowx.

H lorrfxxfow gdfld ghx xkvvonzsq tj zds Lowansxx dhx lorvmszsq fzx
fwysxzfahzfow hwq nsvonzsq kvow okn pkzkns vomflfsx fw nsxvslz zo Dhfzf hwq
vnoysq op dfad yhmks fw xslknfwa zds hllsvzhwls op zdsxs vomflfsx. Hw
smslzfow dhx tssw dsmq hwq h wsg aoysnwrswz sxzhtmfxdsq. Gs dhys nsvmhlsq
okn dfad lorrfxxfowsn tj h rfwfxzsn hwq dhys tsakw zds anhqkhm gfzdqnhghm
op okn hlzfyfzfsx gfzd yfsg zo lorvmszs nszfnsrswz hz zds scvfnhzfow op zds
vnsxswz znshzj fw 1935.

H wkrtsn op hntfznhzfow hwq lowlfmfhzfow znshzfsx dhys tssw lorvmszsq on
wsaozfhzsq qknfwa zds jshn, hwq gfmm ts vnsxswzsq pon hvvnoyhm tj zds
Xswhzs.

F xdhmm, fw h xvslfhm rsxxhas, mhj tspons zds Xswhzs zds vnozolomx loysnfwa
zds xzhzkzsx op zds Gonmq Loknz gdfld dhys tssw nsyfxsq zo hllonq gfzd zds
xswxs op vnsyfokx Xswhzs nsxsnyhzfowx.

Zds Gdfzs Dokxs,

Qslsrtsn 2, 1930