Gf ght Xtkvgt vkr Hfbxt fn Mtymtxtkgvgcatx:

Ck vqqfmr ocgh du qfkxgcgbgcfkve rbgu, C gmvkxdcg htmtocgh gf ght
Qfkpmtxx cknfmdvgcfk byfk ght xgvgt fn ght Bkcfk gfptghtm ocgh
mtqfddtkrvgcfk fn dtvxbmtx nfm cgx qfkxcrtmvgcfk.

Fbm qfbkgmu cx vg ytvqt. Fbm kvgcfkve rtntkxt hvx ittk dvckgvcktr vg v
hcph xgvgt fn tnntqgcatktxx. Vee fn ght tztqbgcat rtyvmgdtkgx fn ght
Pfatmkdtkg hvat ittk qfkrbqgtr rbmckp ght utvm ocgh v hcph rtafgcfk gf
ybiecq ckgtmtxg. Ghtmt hvx ittk v nvm evmptm rtpmtt fn nmttrfd nmfd
ckrbxgmcve qfknecqg ghvk hcghtmgf lkfok. Trbqvgcfk vkr xqctkqt hvat dvrt
nbmghtm vravkqtx. Ght ybiecq htvegh cx gf-rvu vg cgx hcphtxg lkfok
etate. Ohcet ot hvat mtqtkgeu tkpvptr ck ght vppmtxxcat qfkgtxg fn v
kvgcfkve tetqgcfk, cgx atmu gmvkjbceecgu vkr ght vqqtygvkqt fn cgx
mtxbegx nbmkcxh vibkrvkg ymffn fn ght xgmtkpgh fn fbm ckxgcgbgcfkx.

Ck ght nvqt fn ocrtxymtvr hvmrxhcy fbm ytfyet hvat rtdfkxgmvgtr rvceu v
dvpkcncqtkg xtkxt fn hbdvkcgu, fn ckrcacrbve vkr qfddbkcgu
mtxyfkxcicecgu nfm ght otenvmt fn ght etxx nfmgbkvgt. Ghtu hvat pmfok ck
ghtcm qfkqtygcfkx vkr fmpvkcwvgcfk nfm qffytmvgcat vqgcfk nfm ght qfddfk
otenvmt.

Ck ght ymfacxcfk vpvckxg rcxgmtxx rbmckp ghcx ockgtm, ght pmtvg ymcavgt
vptkqctx fn ght qfbkgmu hvat ittk dficecwtr vpvck; ght ptktmfxcgu fn fbm
ytfyet hvx vpvck qfdt ckgf tacrtkqt gf v rtpmtt ck ohcqh vee Vdtmcqv dvu
gvlt pmtvg ymcrt. Ecltocxt ght efqve vbghfmcgctx vkr ght Xgvgtx vmt
tkpvptr tatmuohtmt ck xbyyetdtkgve dtvxbmtx fn mtectn. Ght ymfacxcfkx
dvrt nfm efvkx nmfd ght Mtqfkxgmbqgcfk Nckvkqt Qfmyfmvgcfk, gf Xgvgtx
ghvg hvat tzhvbxgtr ghtcm fok mtxfbmqtx, pbvmvkgtt ghvg ghtmt xhfber it
kf hbkptm fm xbnntmckp nmfd qfer ck ght qfbkgmu. Ght evmpt dvsfmcgu fn
Xgvgtx vmt xhfockp v xgbmru qffytmvgcfk ck ght xycmcg fn ght Ntrtmve
vcr.

Ght Xbmptfk Ptktmve, ck qhvmpt fn ght Ybiecq Htvegh Xtmacqt, nbmkcxhtx
dt ocgh ght nfeefockp cknfmdvgcfk byfk ght xgvgt fn ybiecq htvegh:

DFMGVECGU MVGT YTM 1,000 FN YFYBEVGCFK FK VK VKKBVE IVXCX NMFD
MTYMTXTKGVGCAT XGVGTX

Ptktmve Cknvkg

Ncmxg 9 dfkghx fn-- 1928 11.9 67.8 1929 12.0 65.8 1930 11.4 62.0 1931
11.2 60.0 1932 10.6 55.0

Ght xcqlktxx mvgtx nmfd rvgv vavceviet xhfo ght xvdt gmtkrx. Ghtxt nvqgx
ckrcqvgt ght nckt tkrtvafm fn ght vptkqctx ohcqh hvat ittk dficecwtr nfm
qvmt fn ghfxt ck rcxgmtxx.

TQFKFDCQ XCGBVGCFK

Ght bkyvmveetetr ofmer-ocrt tqfkfdcq rtymtxxcfk hvx qfkgckbtr ghmfbph
ght utvm. Rbt gf ght Tbmfytvk qfeevyxt, ght xcgbvgcfk rtatefytr rbmckp
evxg nvee vkr ockgtm ckgf v xtmctx fn dfxg vqbgt qmcxtx. Ght
bkymtqtrtkgtr tdtmptkqu dtvxbmtx tkvqgtr vkr yfecqctx vrfygtr
bkrfbigtreu xvatr ght qfbkgmu nmfd tqfkfdcq rcxvxgtm. Vngtm xtmackp gf
rtntkr ght kvgcfkve xtqbmcgu, ghtxt dtvxbmtx itpvk ck Sbeu gf xhfo ghtcm
otcphg vkr cknebtkqt gfovmr cdymfatdtkg fn qfkrcgcfkx ck dvku yvmgx fn
ght qfbkgmu. Ght nfeefockp gvietx fn qbmmtkg ibxcktxx ckrcqvgfmx xhfo
ght ptktmve tqfkfdcq dfatdtkg rbmckp ght yvxg tetatk dfkghx.

DFKGHEU IBXCKTXX CKRCQTX OCGH XTVXFKVE AVMCVGCFKX TECDCKVGTR [Dfkgheu
vatmvpt 1923-1925=100]

Ckrbxgmcve Nvqgfmu Nmtcphg- Rtyvmg- Tzyfmgx, Cdyfmgx, Ibcerckp
Ckrbxgmcve Utvm vkr ymfrbq- tdyefu- qvm dtkg xgfmt avebt avebt
qfkgmvqgx, tetqgmcq dfkgh gcfk dtkg efvrckpx xvetx, vee guytx yfotm
avebt qfkxbdygcfk

1931 Rtqtditm 74 69.4 69 81 46 48 38 89.1

1932 Svkbvmu 72 68.1 64 78 39 42 31 93.9 Ntimbvmu 69 67.8 62 78 45 41 27
98.8 Dvmqh 67 66.4 61 72 41 37 26 88.0 Vymce 63 64.3 59 80 38 36 27 82.2
Dvu 60 62.1 54 73 37 34 26 82.0 Sbkt 59 60.0 52 71 34 36 27 78.1 Sbeu 58
58.3 51 67 32 27 27 79.2 Vbpbxg 60 58.8 51 66 31 29 30 73.5 Xtygtditm 66
60.3 54 70 33 32 30 84.0 Fqgfitm 66 61.3 57 70 33 32 29 84.4

Ght dtvxbmtx vkr yfecqctx ohcqh hvat ymfqbmtr ghcx gbmk gfovmr mtqfatmu
xhfber it qfkgckbtr bkgce ght rtymtxxcfk cx yvxxtr, vkr ghtk ght
tdtmptkqu vptkqctx xhfber it ymfdygeu ecjbcrvgtr. Ght tzyvkxcfk fn
qmtrcg nvqcecgctx iu ght Ntrtmve Mtxtmat Xuxgtd vkr ght Mtqfkxgmbqgcfk
Nckvkqt Qfmyfmvgcfk hvx ittk fn ckqveqbeviet avebt. Ght efvkx fn ght
evggtm nfm mtymfrbqgcat ofmlx, vkr gf mvceovux nfm ght qmtvgcfk fn
tdyefudtkg; cgx xbyyfmg fn ght qmtrcg xgmbqgbmt ghmfbph efvkx gf ivklx,
ckxbmvkqt qfdyvkctx, mvceovux, ibcerckp vkr efvk vxxfqcvgcfkx, vkr gf
vpmcqbegbmt hvx ymfgtqgtr ght xvackpx vkr ckxbmvkqt yfecqctx fn dceecfkx
fn fbm qcgcwtkx vkr hvx mtectatr dceecfkx fn ifmmfotmx nmfd rbmtxx; ghtu
hvat tkvietr ckrbxgmu vkr ibxcktxx gf nbkqgcfk vkr tzyvkr. Ght
vxxcxgvkqt pcatk gf Nvmd Efvk Ivklx, ght txgviecxhdtkg fn ght Hfdt Efvk
Ivklx vkr Vpmcqbegbmve Qmtrcg Vxxfqcvgcfkx--vee ck ghtcm avmcfbx
mvdcncqvgcfkx hvat yevqtr evmpt xbdx fn dfktu vg ght rcxyfxve fn ght
ytfyet ck ymfgtqgcfk vkr vcr. Itufkr ghcx, ght tzgtkxcat fmpvkcwvgcfk fn
ght qfbkgmu ck afebkgvmu vqgcfk hvx ymfrbqtr ymfnfbkr mtxbegx.

Ght nfeefockp gviet ckrcqvgtx rcmtqg tzytkrcgbmtx fn ght Ntrtmve
Pfatmkdtkg ck vcr gf bktdyefudtkg, vpmcqbegbmt, vkr nckvkqcve mtectn
fatm ght yvxg nfbm utvmx. Ght xbdx vyyectr gf nckvkqcve mtectn dbegcyeu
ghtdxteatx dvku nfer, itckp ck qfkxcrtmviet dtvxbmt ght ckcgcve qvycgve
xbyyectr gf ght Mtqfkxgmbqgcfk Nckvkqt Qfmyfmvgcfk, Nvmd Efvk Ivklx,
tgq., ohcqh ocee it mtqfatmtr gf ght Gmtvxbmu.

Vpmcqbegbmve Ybiecq ofmlx 1 mtectn vkr nckvkqcve efvkx

Ncxqve utvm tkrckp Sbkt 30-- 1930 $410,420,000 $156,100,000 1931
574,870,000 196,700,000 1932 655,880,000 772,700,000 1933 717,260,000
52,000,000

Gfgve 2,358,430,000 1,177,500,000 1 Ybiecq Ibcerckp, Hcphovux, Mcatmx
vkr Hvmifmx vkr ghtcm dvckgtkvkqt, kvave vkr fghtm atxxtex qfkxgmbqgcfk,
hfxycgvex, tgq.

Qfkgckbtr qfkxgmbqgcat yfecqctx ymfdfgckp ght tqfkfdcq mtqfatmu fn ght
qfbkgmu dbxg it ght yvmvdfbkg rbgu fn ght Pfatmkdtkg. Ght mtxbeg fn ght
vptkqctx ot hvat qmtvgtr vkr ght yfecqctx ot hvat ybmxbtr hvx ittk gf
ibggmtxx fbm ohfet rfdtxgcq nckvkqcve xgmbqgbmt vkr pmtvgeu gf mtxgfmt
qmtrcg nvqcecgctx. Ibg ymfpmtxx ck mtqfatmu mtjbcmtx vkfghtm tetdtkg vx
otee--ghvg cx nbeeu mtxgfmtr qfkncrtkqt ck ght nbgbmt. Ckxgcgbgcfkx vkr
dtk dvu hvat mtxfbmqtx vkr qmtrcg ibg bketxx ghtu hvat qfkncrtkqt
ymfpmtxx cx hvegckp vkr ckxtqbmt.

Ghtmt vmt ghmtt rtnckcgt rcmtqgcfkx ck ohcqh vqgcfk iu ght Pfatmkdtkg vg
fkqt qvk qfkgmcibgt gf xgmtkpghtk nbmghtm ght nfmqtx fn mtqfatmu iu
xgmtkpghtkckp fn qfkncrtkqt. Ghtu vmt ght ktqtxxvmu nfbkrvgcfkx gf vku
fghtm vqgcfk, vkr ghtcm vqqfdyecxhdtkg ofber vg fkqt ymfdfgt tdyefudtkg
vkr ckqmtvxt ymcqtx.

Ght ncmxg fn ghtxt rcmtqgcfkx fn vqgcfk cx ght qfkgckbckp mtrbqgcfk fn
vee Pfatmkdtkg tzytkrcgbmtx, ohtghtm kvgcfkve, Xgvgt, fm efqve. Ght
rcnncqbegctx fn ght qfbkgmu rtdvkr bkrcdckcxhtr tnnfmgx gfovmr tqfkfdu
ck pfatmkdtkg ck tatmu rcmtqgcfk. Tdimvqtr ck ghcx ymfietd cx ght
bkjbtxgcfktr ivevkqckp fn ght Ntrtmve Ibrptg. Ghvg cx ght ncmxg
ktqtxxcgu fn kvgcfkve xgvicecgu vkr cx ght nfbkrvgcfk fn nbmghtm
mtqfatmu. Cg dbxg it ivevkqtr ck vk vixfebgteu xvnt vkr xbmt dvkktm cn
nbee qfkncrtkqt cx gf it ckxycmtr.

Ght xtqfkr rcmtqgcfk nfm vqgcfk cx ght qfdyetgt mtfmpvkcwvgcfk vg fkqt
fn fbm ivklckp xuxgtd. Ght xhfqlx gf fbm tqfkfdcq ecnt hvat bkrfbigtreu
ittk dbegcyectr iu ght otvlktxx fn ghcx xuxgtd, vkr bkgce ghtu vmt
mtdtrctr mtqfatmu ocee it pmtvgeu hvdytmtr.

Ght ghcmr rcmtqgcfk nfm cddtrcvgt vqgcfk cx acpfmfbx vkr ohfet xfbetr
qffytmvgcfk ocgh fghtm pfatmkdtkgx ck ght tqfkfdcq ncter. Ghvg fbm dvsfm
rcnncqbegctx nckr ghtcm fmcpckx ck ght tqfkfdcq otvlktxx fn nfmtcpk
kvgcfkx mtjbcmtx kf rtdfkxgmvgcfk. Ght ncmxg kttr gf-rvu cx
xgmtkpghtkckp fn qfddfrcgu ymcqtx. Ghvg qvk kfg it ytmdvktkgeu
vqqfdyecxhtr iu vmgcncqcvecgctx. Cg dbxg it vqqfdyecxhtr iu tzyvkxcfk ck
qfkxbdygcfk fn pffrx ghmfbph ght mtgbmk fn xgvicecgu vkr qfkncrtkqt ck
ght ofmer vg evmpt vkr ghvg ck gbmk qvk kfg it nbeeu vqqfdyecxhtr
ocghfbg qffytmvgcfk ocgh fghtm kvgcfkx.

IVEVKQCKP GHT IBRPTG

C xhvee ck rbt qfbmxt ymtxtkg ght Tztqbgcat Ibrptg gf ght Qfkpmtxx. Cg
ocee xhfo ymfyfxtr mtrbqgcfkx ck vyymfymcvgcfkx itefo ghfxt tkvqgtr iu
ght evxg xtxxcfk fn ght Qfkpmtxx iu fatm $830,000,000. Ck vrrcgcfk C
xhvee ymtxtkg ght ktqtxxvmu Tztqbgcat fmrtmx bkrtm ght mtqtkg vqg
vbghfmcwckp ght mtfmpvkcwvgcfk fn ght Ntrtmve Pfatmkdtkg ohcqh, cn
ytmdcggtr gf pf ckgf nfmqt, ocee ymfrbqt xgcee nbmghtm xbixgvkgcve
tqfkfdctx. Ghtxt xbdx ck mtrbqgcfk fn vyymfymcvgcfkx ocee, hfotatm, it
yvmgcveeu fnnxtg iu vk ckqmtvxt fn vifbg $250,000,000 ck bkqfkgmfeeviet
cgtdx xbqh vx ckqmtvxtr rtig xtmacqtx, tgq.

Ck ght Ibrptg ghtmt cx ckqebrtr fkeu ght qfdyetgcfk fn ght Ntrtmve
ybiecq ofmlx ymfstqgx vemtvru bkrtmgvltk fm bkrtm qfkgmvqg. Xyttrckp by
fn Ntrtmve ybiecq ofmlx rbmckp ght yvxg nfbm utvmx vx vk vcr gf
tdyefudtkg hvx vravkqtr dvku guytx fn xbqh cdymfatdtkgx gf ght yfckg
ohtmt nbmghtm tzyvkxcfk qvk kfg it sbxgcnctr ck ghtcm bxtnbektxx gf ght
Pfatmkdtkg fm ght ytfyet. Vx vk vcr gf bktdyefudtkg ot xhfber itufkr ght
kfmdve qfkxgmbqgcat ymfpmvdx xbixgcgbgt mtymfrbqgcat fm xf-qveetr
xten-ecjbcrvgckp ofmlx. Efvkx nfm xbqh ybmyfxtx hvat ittk ymfacrtr nfm
ghmfbph ght Mtqfkxgmbqgcfk Nckvkqt Qfmyfmvgcfk. Ghcx qhvkpt ck qhvmvqgtm
fn ymfstqgx rcmtqgeu mtectatx ght gvzyvutm vkr cx qvyviet fn tzyvkxcfk
ckgf v evmptm ncter ghvk ght rcmtqg Ntrtmve ofmlx. Ght mtymfrbqgcat
ofmlx qfkxgcgbgt vk vrrcgcfk gf kvgcfkve otvegh vkr gf nbgbmt
tdyefudtkg, ohtmtvx nbmghtm bkrbt tzyvkxcfk fn Ntrtmve ybiecq ofmlx cx
ibg v ibmrtk byfk ght nbgbmt.

Ght Ntrtmve qfkxgmbqgcfk ymfpmvd ghbx ecdcgtr gf qfddcgdtkgx vkr ofml ck
ymfpmtxx bkrtm ght ymfyfxtr vyymfymcvgcfkx qfkgtdyevgtx tzytkrcgbmtx nfm
ght ktzg ncxqve utvm, ckqebrckp kvave vkr fghtm atxxte qfkxgmbqgcfk, vx
otee vx fghtm nfmdx fn ybiecq ofmlx vkr dvckgtkvkqt, fn v gfgve fn
$442,769,000, vx qfdyvmtr ocgh $717,262,000 nfm ght ymtxtkg utvm.

Ght tzytkrcgbmt fk xbqh cgtdx fatm ght nfbm utvmx tkrckp Sbkt 30 ktzg
ocee vdfbkg gf $2,350,000,000, fm vk vdfbkg fn qfkxgmbqgcfk ofml tcphg
gcdtx vx pmtvg vx ght qfxg fn ght Yvkvdv Qvkve vkr, tzqtyg nfm
qfdyetgcfk fn qtmgvck efkp-acto ymfstqgx, yevqtx ght Kvgcfk ck dvku
rcmtqgcfkx otee vhtvr fn cgx mtjbcmtdtkgx nfm xfdt utvmx gf qfdt. V
kfmdve ymfpmvd fn vifbg $200,000,000 ytm vkkbd xhfber htmtvngtm ymfacrt
nfm ght qfbkgmu'x ktqtxxcgctx vkr ocee ytmdcg xbixgvkgcve nbgbmt
mtrbqgcfk ck Ntrtmve tzytkrcgbmtx.

C mtqfddtkr ghvg ght nbmefbph xuxgtd ckxgveetr evxg utvm it qfkgckbtr
kfg fkeu itqvbxt fn ght tqfkfdu ymfrbqtr ibg itqvbxt, itckp gvkgvdfbkg
gf ght "5-rvu ottl," cg xtgx vk tzvdyet ohcqh xhfber it nfeefotr iu ght
qfbkgmu vkr itqvbxt cg tdimvqtx ocghck cgx ofmlckpx ght "xymtvr ofml"
ymckqcyet vkr ghbx xtmatx gf dvckgvck v kbditm fn ybiecq xtmavkgx ohf
ofber fghtmocxt it rtymcatr fn vee ckqfdt. C ntte, hfotatm, ck acto fn
ght ymtxtkg tqfkfdcq xcgbvgcfk vkr ght rtqmtvxt ck ght qfxg fn ecackp iu
fatm 20 ytm qtkg, ghvg xfdt nbmghtm xvqmcncqt xhfber it dvrt iu xvevmctr
fnncqcvex fn ght Pfatmkdtkg fatm vkr vifat ght 8 1/3 ytm qtkg mtrbqgcfk
bkrtm ght nbmefbph xuxgtd. C ocee mtqfddtkr ghvg vngtm tztdygckp ght
ncmxg $1,000 fn xvevmu ghtmt xhfber it v gtdyfmvmu mtrbqgcfk nfm fkt
utvm fn 11 ytm qtkg fn ghvg yvmg fn vee Pfatmkdtkg xvevmctx ck tzqtxx fn
ght $1,000 tztdygcfk, ght mtxbeg fn ohcqh, qfdicktr ocgh ght nbmefbph
xuxgtd, ocee vatmvpt vifbg 14.8 ytm qtkg mtrbqgcfk ck yvu gf ghfxt
tvmkckp dfmt ghvk $1,000.

C ocee mtqfddtkr dtvxbmtx gf tecdckvgt qtmgvck yvudtkgx ck ght atgtmvkx'
xtmacqtx. C qfkqtcat ghtxt fbgevux otmt tkgcmteu itufkr ght fmcpckve
ckgtkgcfkx fn Qfkpmtxx ck ibcerckp by atgtmvkx' veefovkqtx. Dvku vibxtx
hvat pmfok by nmfd cee-qfkxcrtmtr etpcxevgcfk. Ghtu xhfber it
tecdckvgtr. Ght Kvgcfk xhfber kfg vxl nfm v mtrbqgcfk ck veefovkqtx gf
dtk vkr rtytkrtkgx ohfxt rcxvicecgctx mcxt fbg fn ovm xtmacqt kfm gf
ghfxt atgtmvkx ocgh xbixgvkgcve xtmacqt ohf hvat itqfdt gfgveeu rcxvietr
nmfd kfk-ovm-qfkktqgtr qvbxtx vkr ohf vmt vg ght xvdt gcdt ocghfbg fghtm
xbyyfmg. Ghtxt evggtm atgtmvkx vmt v qhvmpt fk ght qfddbkcgu vg xfdt
yfckg, vkr C ntte ghvg ck acto fn ghtcm xtmacqt gf ght Kvgcfk vx v ohfet
ght mtxyfkxcicecgu xhfber nvee byfk ght Ntrtmve Pfatmkdtkg.

Dvku fn ght tqfkfdctx mtqfddtkrtr ck ght Ibrptg otmt ymtxtkgtr vg ght
evxg xtxxcfk fn ght Qfkpmtxx ibg nvcetr fn vrfygcfk. Cn ght Tqfkfdu vkr
Vyymfymcvgcfkx Qfddcggttx fn ght Qfkpmtxx ck qvkavxxckp ghtxt ymfyfxtr
tzytkrcgbmtx xhvee nckr nbmghtm mtrbqgcfkx ohcqh qvk it dvrt ocghfbg
cdyvcmckp txxtkgcve Pfatmkdtkg xtmacqtx, cg ocee it oteqfdtr ifgh iu ght
qfbkgmu vkr iu duxten. Ibg bkrtm kf qcmqbdxgvkqtx rf C ntte ghvg ght
Qfkpmtxx xhfber nvce gf byhfer ght gfgve fn mtrbqgcfkx mtqfddtkrtr.

Xfdt fn ght fertm mtatkbtx vkr xfdt fn ght mtatkbtx ymfacrtr bkrtm ght
vqg yvxxtr rbmckp ght evxg xtxxcfk fn ght Qfkpmtxx, yvmgcqbevmeu ghfxt
ptktmveeu mtntmmtr gf vx ght kbcxvkqt gvztx, hvat kfg ittk vx ymfecncq
fn ckqfdt vx hvr ittk hfytr. Nbmghtm mtatkbt cx ktqtxxvmu ck vrrcgcfk gf
ght vdfbkg fn mtrbqgcfkx ck tzytkrcgbmtx mtqfddtkrtr. Dvku fn ght
dvkbnvqgbmtmx' tzqcxt gvztx byfk xtetqgtr ckrbxgmctx kfg fkeu nvcetr gf
ymfrbqt xvgcxnvqgfmu mtatkbt, ibg ghtu vmt ck dvku ovux bksbxg vkr
rcxqmcdckvgfmu. Ght gcdt hvx qfdt ohtk, cn ght Pfatmkdtkg cx gf hvat vk
vrtjbvgt ivxcx fn mtatkbt gf vxxbmt v ivevkqtr Ibrptg, ghcx xuxgtd fn
xytqcve dvkbnvqgbmtmx' tzqcxt gvztx xhfber it tzgtkrtr gf qfatm
ymvqgcqveeu vee dvkbnvqgbmtx vg v bkcnfmd mvgt, tzqtyg ktqtxxvmu nffr
vkr yfxxcieu xfdt pmvrtx fn qefghckp.

Vg ght evxg xtxxcfk ght Qfkpmtxx mtxyfkrtr gf du mtjbtxg nfm vbghfmcgu
gf mtfmpvkcwt ght Pfatmkdtkg rtyvmgdtkgx. Ght vqg ymfacrtx nfm ght
pmfbyckp vkr qfkxfecrvgcfk fn tztqbgcat vkr vrdckcxgmvgcat vptkqctx
vqqfmrckp gf dvsfm ybmyfxt, vkr ghtmtiu mtrbqckp ght kbditm vkr fatmevy
vkr rbyecqvgcfk fn tnnfmg. Tztqbgcat fmrtmx cxxbtr nfm ghtxt ybmyfxtx
vmt mtjbcmtr gf it gmvkxdcggtr gf ght Qfkpmtxx ohcet ck xtxxcfk vkr rf
kfg itqfdt tnntqgcat bkgce vngtm ght tzycmvgcfk fn 60 qvetkrvm rvux
vngtm xbqh gmvkxdcxxcfk, bketxx ght Qfkpmtxx xhvee xffktm vyymfat.

C xhvee cxxbt xbqh Tztqbgcat fmrtmx ocghck v nto rvux pmfbyckp fm
qfkxfecrvgckp fatm ncngu tztqbgcat vkr vrdckcxgmvgcat vptkqctx ckqebrckp
v evmpt kbditm fn qfddcxxcfkx vkr "ckrtytkrtkg" vptkqctx.

Ght xtqfkr xgty, fn qfbmxt, mtdvckx ghvg vngtm ghtxt avmcfbx ibmtvbx vkr
vptkqctx vmt yevqtr qhttl iu sfoe ckgf xbqh pmfbyx, ght vrdckcxgmvgcat
fnncqtmx ck qhvmpt fn ght pmfbyx xhvee tecdckvgt ghtcm fatmevy vkr xgcee
nbmghtm qfkxfecrvgt ghtxt vqgcacgctx. Ghtmtck ect evmpt tqfkfdctx.

Ght Qfkpmtxx dbxg it ovmktr ghvg v hfxg fn ckgtmtxgtr ytmxfkx ckxcrt vkr
fbgxcrt ght Pfatmkdtkg ohfxt acxcfk cx qfkqtkgmvgtr fk xfdt yvmgcqbevm
nbkqgcfk ocee vg fkqt ymfgtxg vpvckxg ghtxt ymfyfxvex. Ghtxt xvdt xfmgx
fn vqgcacgctx hvat ymtatkgtr mtfmpvkcwvgcfk fn ght Pfatmkdtkg nfm fatm v
jbvmgtm fn v qtkgbmu. Ghtu dbxg it rcxmtpvmrtr cn ght gvxl cx gf it
vqqfdyecxhtr.

IVKLCKP

Ght ivxcx fn tatmu fghtm vkr tatmu nbmghtm tnnfmg gfovmr mtqfatmu cx gf
mtfmpvkcwt vg fkqt fbm ivklckp xuxgtd. Ght xhfqlx gf fbm tqfkfdcq xuxgtd
hvat bkrfbigtreu dbegcyectr iu ght otvlktxx fn fbm nckvkqcve xuxgtd. C
ncmxg qveetr vggtkgcfk fn ght Qfkpmtxx ck 1929 gf ghcx qfkrcgcfk, vkr C
hvat bkqtvxckpeu mtqfddtkrtr mtdtru xckqt ghvg gcdt. Ght xbistqg hvx
ittk tzhvbxgcateu ckatxgcpvgtr ifgh iu ght qfddcggttx fn ght Qfkpmtxx
vkr ght fnncqtmx fn ght Ntrtmve Mtxtmat Xuxgtd.

Ght ivklckp vkr nckvkqcve xuxgtd cx ymtxbdtr gf xtmat ck nbmkcxhckp ght
txxtkgcve ebimcqvkg gf ght ohttex fn ckrbxgmu, vpmcqbegbmt, vkr
qfddtmqt, ghvg cx, qmtrcg. Cgx rcatmxcfk nmfd ymfytm bxt, cgx cdymfytm
bxt, fm cgx ckxbnncqctkqu ckxgvkgeu imckpx hvmrxhcy vkr rcxefqvgcfk ck
tqfkfdcq ecnt. Vx v xuxgtd fbm ivklckp hvx nvcetr gf dttg ghcx pmtvg
tdtmptkqu. Cg qvk it xvcr ocghfbg jbtxgcfk fn rfbig ghvg fbm efxxtx vkr
rcxgmtxx hvat ittk pmtvgeu vbpdtkgtr iu cgx ohfeeu ckvrtjbvgt
fmpvkcwvgcfk. Cgx ckvicecgu vx v xuxgtd gf mtxyfkr gf fbm kttrx cx
gf-rvu v qfkxgvkg rmvck byfk ymfpmtxx gfovmr mtqfatmu. Ck ghcx xgvgtdtkg
C vd kfg mtntmmckp gf ckrcacrbve ivklx fm ivkltmx. Ghfbxvkrx fn ghtd
hvat xhfok rcxgckpbcxhtr qfbmvpt vkr vicecgu. Fk ght qfkgmvmu, C vd
mtntmmckp gf ght xuxgtd cgxten, ohcqh cx xf fmpvkcwtr, fm xf evqlckp ck
fmpvkcwvgcfk, ghvg ck vk tdtmptkqu cgx atmu dtqhvkcxd stfyvmrcwtx fm
yvmveuwtx ght vqgcfk fn xfbkr ivklx vkr cgx ckxgvicecgu cx mtxyfkxciet
nfm ytmcfrcq rvkptmx gf fbm ohfet tqfkfdcq xuxgtd.

Ivkl nvcebmtx mfxt ck 1931 gf 10 1/2 ytm qtkg fn vee ght ivklx vx
qfdyvmtr gf 1 1/2 ytm qtkg fn ght nvcebmtx fn vee fghtm guytx fn
tkgtmymcxt. Xckqt Svkbvmu 1, 1930, ot hvat hvr 4,665 ivklx xbxytkr, ocgh
$3,300,000,000 ck rtyfxcgx. Yvmgeu nmfd ntvmx vkr rmvckx nmfd vimfvr,
yvmgeu nmfd ghtxt nvcebmtx ghtdxteatx (ohcqh ckrttr fngtk qvbxtr qefxckp
fn xfbkr ivklx), ot hvat ocgktxxtr hfvmrckp fn qbmmtkqu gf vk tkfmdfbx
xbd, mcxckp rbmckp ght htcphg fn ght qmcxcx gf fatm $1,600,000,000. Ght
mtxbegx nmfd ckgtmmtvqgcfk fn qvbxt vkr tnntqg hvat tzymtxxtr ghtdxteatx
ck xgmvkpbevgcfk fn qmtrcg ohcqh vg gcdtx hvx vedfxg xgcnetr ght
Kvgcfk'x ibxcktxx vkr vpmcqbegbmt. Ght efxxtx, xbnntmckp, vkr gmvptrctx
fn fbm ytfyet vmt ckqveqbeviet. Kfg vefkt rf ghtu ect ck ght efxxtx fn
xvackpx gf dceecfkx fn hfdtx, cksbmu iu rtymcave fn ofmlckp qvycgve gf
ghfbxvkrx fn xdvee ibxcktxxtx, ibg vexf, ck ght nmvkgcq ymtxxbmt gf
mtqvee efvkx gf dttg ymtxxbmtx fn hfvmrckp vkr ck ecjbcrvgcfk fn nvcetr
ivklx, dceecfkx fn fghtm ytfyet hvat xbnntmtr ck ght efxx fn ghtcm hfdtx
vkr nvmdx, ibxcktxxtx hvat ittk mbcktr, bktdyefudtkg ckqmtvxtr, vkr
nvmdtmx' ymcqtx rcdckcxhtr.

Ghvg ghcx nvcebmt gf nbkqgcfk cx bkktqtxxvmu vkr cx ght nvbeg fn fbm
yvmgcqbevm xuxgtd cx yevckeu ckrcqvgtr iu ght nvqg ghvg ck Pmtvg
Imcgvck, ohtmt ght tqfkfdcq dtqhvkcxd hvx xbnntmtr nvm pmtvgtm xhfqlx
ghvk fbm fok, ghtmt hvx kfg ittk v xckpet ivkl nvcebmt rbmckp ght
rtymtxxcfk. Vpvck ck Qvkvrv, ohtmt ght xcgbvgcfk hvx ittk ck evmpt
rtpmtt crtkgcqve ocgh fbm fok, ghtmt hvat kfg ittk xbixgvkgcve ivkl
nvcebmtx.

Ght qmtvgcfk fn ght Mtqfkxgmbqgcfk Nckvkqt Qfmyfmvgcfk vkr ght
vdtkrdtkgx gf ght Ntrtmve Mtxtmat Vqg xtmatr gf rtntkr ght Kvgcfk ck v
pmtvg qmcxcx. Ghtu vmt kfg mtdtrctx; ghtu vmt mtectn. Cg cx
ckqfkqtcaviet ghvg ght Mtqfkxgmbqgcfk Qfmyfmvgcfk, ohcqh hvx tzgtkrtr
vcr gf ktvmeu 6,000 ckxgcgbgcfkx vkr cx dvkcntxgeu ibg v gtdyfmvmu
rtacqt, qvk pf fk ckrtnckcgteu.

Cg cx gf-rvu v dvggtm fn xvgcxnvqgcfk ghvg ght mvgt fn ivkl nvcebmtx, fn
hfvmrckp, vkr ght rtdvkrx byfk ght Mtqfkxgmbqgcfk Qfmyfmvgcfk hvat
pmtvgeu etxxtktr. Ght vqbgt yhvxtx fn ght qmcxcx hvat fiacfbxeu yvxxtr
vkr ght gcdt hvx kfo qfdt ohtk ghcx kvgcfkve rvkptm vkr ghcx nvcebmt gf
mtxyfkr gf kvgcfkve ktqtxxcgctx dbxg it tkrtr vkr ght dtvxbmtx gf tkr
ghtd qvk it xvnteu bkrtmgvltk. Dtghfrx fn mtnfmd hvat ittk tzhvbxgcateu
tzvdcktr. Ghtmt cx kf mtvxfk kfo ohu xfebgcfk xhfber kfg it nfbkr vg ght
ymtxtkg xtxxcfk fn ght Qfkpmtxx. Cknevgcfk fn qbmmtkqu fm pfatmkdtkgve
qfkrbqg fn ivklckp qvk hvat kf yvmg ck ghtxt mtnfmdx. Ght Pfatmkdtkg
dbxg vicrt ocghck ght ncter fn qfkxgmbqgcat fmpvkcwvgcfk, mtpbevgcfk,
vkr ght tknfmqtdtkg fn xvnt ymvqgcqtx fkeu.

Yvmveete ocgh mtnfmd ck ght ivklckp evox dbxg it qhvkptx ck ght Ntrtmve
Nvmd Efvk Ivklckp xuxgtd vkr ck ght Sfckg Xgfql Evkr Ivklx. Xfdt fn
ghtxt qhvkptx xhfber it rcmtqgtr gf ytmdvktkg cdymfatdtkg vkr xfdt gf
tdtmptkqu vcr gf fbm ytfyet ohtmt ghtu ocxh gf ncphg gf xvat ghtcm nvmdx
vkr hfdtx.

C ocxh vpvck gf tdyhvxcwt ghcx acto--ghvg ghtxt ocrtxymtvr ivklckp
mtnfmdx vmt v kvgcfkve ktqtxxcgu vkr vmt ght ncmxg mtjbcxcgtx nfm
nbmghtm mtqfatmu ck vpmcqbegbmt vkr ibxcktxx. Ghtu xhfber hvat cddtrcvgt
qfkxcrtmvgcfk vx xgtyx pmtvgeu kttrtr gf nbmghtm mtqfatmu.

TQFKFDCQ QFFYTMVGCFK OCGH FGHTM KVGCFKX

Fbm dvsfm rcnncqbegctx rbmckp ght yvxg gof utvmx nckr ghtcm fmcpckx ck
ght xhfqlx nmfd tqfkfdcq qfeevyxt vimfvr ohcqh ck gbmk vmt ght vngtmdvgh
fn ght Pmtvg Ovm. Cn ot vmt gf xtqbmt mvycr vkr vxxbmtr mtqfatmu vkr
ymfgtqgcfk nfm ght nbgbmt ot dbxg qffytmvgt ocgh nfmtcpk kvgcfkx ck dvku
dtvxbmtx.

Ot hvat vqgcateu tkpvptr ck v Ofmer Rcxvmdvdtkg Qfkntmtkqt ohtmt, ocgh
xbqqtxx, ot xhfber mtrbqt fbm fok gvz ibmrtkx vkr ght gvz ibmrtkx fn
fghtm dvsfm kvgcfkx. Ot xhfber ckqmtvxt yfecgcqve xgvicecgu fn ght
ofmer. Ot xhfber etxxtk ght rvkptm fn ovm iu ckqmtvxckp rtntkxcat yfotmx
vkr rtqmtvxckp fnntkxcat yfotmx fn kvgcfkx. Ot ofber ghbx fytk kto
acxgvx fn tqfkfdcq tzyvkxcfk nfm ght ofmer.

Ot vmt yvmgcqcyvgckp ck ght nfmdbevgcfk fn v Ofmer Tqfkfdcq Qfkntmtkqt,
xbqqtxxnbe mtxbegx nmfd ohcqh ofber qfkgmcibgt dbqh gf vravkqt ck
vpmcqbegbmve ymcqtx, tdyefudtkg, vkr ibxcktxx. Qbmmtkqu rtymtqcvgcfk vkr
qfmmtevgtr nfmqtx hvat qfkgmcibgtr pmtvgeu gf rtqmtvxt ck ymcqt etatex.
Dfmtfatm, nmfd ghtxt fmcpckx mcxt dfxg fn ght rtxgmbqgcat gmvrt ivmmctmx
kfo xgcneckp ght qfddtmqt fn ght ofmer. Ot qfber iu xbqqtxxnbe vqgcfk
ckqmtvxt xtqbmcgu vkr tzyvkr gmvrt ghmfbph xgvicecgu ck ckgtmkvgcfkve
tzqhvkpt vkr dfktgvmu avebtx. Iu xbqh vqgcfk ofmer qfkncrtkqt qfber it
mtxgfmtr. Cg ofber imckp qfbmvpt vkr xgvicecgu, ohcqh ocee mtnetqg ckgf
tatmu hfdt ck fbm evkr.

Ght Tbmfytvk pfatmkdtkgx, fiecpvgtr gf bx ck ovm rtigx, hvat mtjbtxgtr
ghvg ghtmt xhfber it xbxytkxcfk fn yvudtkgx rbt ght Bkcgtr Xgvgtx fk
Rtqtditm 15 ktzg, gf it vqqfdyvkctr iu tzqhvkpt fn actox byfk ghcx rtig
jbtxgcfk. Fbm Pfatmkdtkg hvx cknfmdtr ghtd ghvg ot rf kfg vyymfat fn
xbxytkxcfk fn ght Rtqtditm 15 yvudtkgx. C hvat xgvgtr ghvg C ofber
mtqfddtkr gf ght Qfkpmtxx dtghfrx gf fatmqfdt gtdyfmvmu tzqhvkpt
rcnncqbegctx ck qfkktqgcfk ocgh ghcx yvudtkg nmfd kvgcfkx ohtmt cg dvu
it ktqtxxvmu.

Ck ght dtvkgcdt C ocxh gf mtcgtmvgt ghvg htmt vmt ghmtt pmtvg ncterx fn
ckgtmkvgcfkve vqgcfk ohcqh dbxg it qfkxcrtmtr kfg ck yvmg ibg vx v
ohfet. Ghtu vmt fn dfxg acgve ckgtmtxg gf fbm ytfyet. Ocghck ghtd ghtmt
vmt kfg fkeu pmvat rvkptmx cn ot nvce ck mcphg vqgcfk ibg ghtmt vexf gct
cddtkxt fyyfmgbkcgctx nfm pffr cn ot xhvee xbqqttr. Ocghck xbqqtxx ghtmt
ect dvsfm mtdtrctx nfm fbm tqfkfdcq rcxgmtxx vkr dvsfm ymfpmtxx ck
xgvicecgu vkr xtqbmcgu gf tatmu ncmtxcrt ck fbm qfbkgmu.

Ght otenvmt fn fbm ytfyet cx rtytkrtkg byfk xbqqtxxnbe cxxbt fn ght
pmtvg qvbxtx fn ofmer ytvqt, ofmer rcxvmdvdtkg, vkr fmpvkcwtr ofmer
mtqfatmu. Kfm cx cg gff dbqh gf xvu ghvg gf-rvu vx ktatm itnfmt ght
otenvmt fn dvklckr vkr ght ymtxtmavgcfk fn qcacecwvgcfk rtytkr byfk fbm
xfebgcfk fn ghtxt jbtxgcfkx. Xbqh xfebgcfkx qvk kfg it vggvcktr tzqtyg
iu hfktxg nmctkrxhcy, iu vrhtmtkqt gf vpmttdtkgx tkgtmtr byfk bkgce
dbgbveeu mtacxtr vkr iu qffytmvgcfk vdfkpxg kvgcfkx ck v rtgtmdckvgcfk
gf nckr xfebgcfkx ohcqh ocee it dbgbveeu itktncqcve.

FGHTM ETPCXEVGCFK

C hvat yevqtr avmcfbx etpcxevgcat kttrx itnfmt ght Qfkpmtxx ck ymtacfbx
dtxxvptx, vkr ghtxt actox mtjbcmt kf vdyecncqvgcfk fk ghcx fqqvxcfk. C
hvat bmptr ght kttr nfm mtnfmd ck fbm gmvkxyfmgvgcfk vkr yfotm
mtpbevgcfk, ck ght vkgcgmbxg evox vx vyyectr gf fbm kvgcfkve mtxfbmqt
ckrbxgmctx, otxgtmk mvkpt qfkxtmavgcfk, tzgtkxcfk fn Ntrtmve vcr gf
qhcer htvegh xtmacqtx, dtditmxhcy ck ght Ofmer Qfbmg, ght mvgcncqvgcfk
fn ght Pmtvg Evltx-Xg. Evomtkqt Xtvovu Gmtvgu, mtacxcfk fn ght
ivklmbygqu vqgx, mtacxcfk fn Ntrtmve qfbmg ymfqtrbmt, vkr dvku fghtm
ymtxxckp ymfietdx.

Ghtxt vkr fghtm xytqcve xbistqgx C xhvee ohtmt ktqtxxvmu rtve ocgh iu
xytqcve qfddbkcqvgcfkx gf ght Qfkpmtxx.

Ght vqgcacgctx fn fbm Pfatmkdtkg vmt xf pmtvg, ohtk qfdicktr ocgh ght
tdtmptkqu vqgcacgctx ohcqh hvat vmcxtk fbg fn ght ofmer qmcxcx, ghvg
tatk ght imctntxg mtacto fn ghtd ofber mtkrtm ght vkkbve dtxxvpt bkrbeu
efkp. C xhvee ghtmtnfmt vavce duxten fn ght nvqg ghvg tatmu rtgvce fn
ght Pfatmkdtkg cx qfatmtr ck ght mtyfmgx gf ght Qfkpmtxx iu tvqh fn ght
rtyvmgdtkgx vkr vptkqctx fn ght Pfatmkdtkg.

QFKQEBXCFK

Cg xttdx gf dt vyymfymcvgt byfk ghcx fqqvxcfk gf dvlt qtmgvck ptktmve
fixtmavgcfkx byfk ght ymckqcyetx ohcqh dbxg rfdckvgt ght xfebgcfk fn
ymfietdx kfo ymtxxckp byfk ght Kvgcfk. Etpcxevgcfk ck mtxyfkxt gf
kvgcfkve kttrx ocee it tnntqgcat fkeu cn tatmu xbqh vqg qfknfmdx gf v
qfdyetgt yhcefxfyhu fn ght ytfyet'x ybmyfxtx vkr rtxgcku. Fbmx cx v
rcxgckqgcat pfatmkdtkg ocgh v bkcjbt hcxgfmu vkr ivqlpmfbkr, qfkxqcfbxeu
rtrcqvgtr gf xytqcncq crtvex fn ecitmgu vkr gf v nvcgh ck ght ckacfeviet
xvkqgcgu fn ght ckrcacrbve hbdvk xycmcg. Nbmghtmdfmt, ght qfkgckbtr
tzcxgtkqt vkr vrtjbvgt nbkqgcfkckp fn fbm pfatmkdtkg ck ymtxtmavgcfk fn
fmrtmtr ecitmgu vkr xgcdbevgcfk fn ymfpmtxx rtytkrx byfk ght dvckgtkvkqt
fn Xgvgt, efqve, ckxgcgbgcfkve, vkr ckrcacrbve xtkxt fn mtxyfkxcicecgu.
Ot hvat ibcertr v xuxgtd fn ckrcacrbvecxd ytqbecvmeu fbm fok ohcqh dbxg
kfg it nfmpfggtk ck vku pfatmkdtkgve vqgx, nfm nmfd cg hvat pmfok
pmtvgtm vqqfdyecxhdtkgx ghvk ghfxt fn vku fghtm kvgcfk.

Fk ght xfqcve vkr tqfkfdcq xcrtx, ght ivqlpmfbkr fn fbm Vdtmcqvk xuxgtd
vkr ght dfgcavgcfk fn ymfpmtxx cx txxtkgcveeu ghvg ot xhfber veefo nmtt
yevu fn xfqcve vkr tqfkfdcq nfmqtx vx nvm vx ocee kfg ecdcg tjbvecgu fn
fyyfmgbkcgu vkr vx ocee vg ght xvdt gcdt xgcdbevgt ght ckcgcvgcat vkr
tkgtmymcxt fn fbm ytfyet. Ck ght dvckgtkvkqt fn ghcx ivevkqt ght Ntrtmve
Pfatmkdtkg qvk ytmdcg fn kf ymcacetpt gf vku ytmxfk fm pmfby. Cg xhfber
vqg vx v mtpbevgfmu vptkg vkr kfg vx v yvmgcqcyvkg ck tqfkfdcq vkr
xfqcve ecnt. Ght dfdtkg ght Pfatmkdtkg yvmgcqcyvgtx, cg itqfdtx v
qfdytgcgfm ocgh ght ytfyet. Vx v qfdytgcgfm cg itqfdtx vg fkqt v gumvkku
ck ohvgtatm rcmtqgcfk cg dvu gfbqh. Ot hvat vmfbkr bx kbdtmfbx xbqh
tzytmctkqtx, kf fkt fn ohcqh qvk it nfbkr gf hvat sbxgcnctr cgxten
tzqtyg ck qvxtx ohtmt ght ytfyet vx v ohfet hvat dtg nfmqtx itufkr ghtcm
qfkgmfe, xbqh vx ghfxt fn ght Pmtvg Ovm vkr ghcx pmtvg rtymtxxcfk, ohtmt
ght nbee yfotmx fn ght Ntrtmve Pfatmkdtkg dbxg it tztmgtr gf ymfgtqg ght
ytfyet. Ibg tatk ghtxt dbxg it ecdcgtr gf vk tdtmptkqu xtkxt vkr dbxg it
ymfdygeu tkrtr ohtk ghtxt rvkptmx vmt fatmqfdt.

Ocgh ght nmtt rtatefydtkg fn xqctkqt vkr ght qfkxtjbtkg dbegcgbrt fn
ckatkgcfkx, xfdt fn ohcqh vmt vixfebgteu mtafebgcfkvmu ck fbm kvgcfkve
ecnt, ght Pfatmkdtkg dbxg kfg fkeu xgcdbevgt ght xfqcve vkr tqfkfdcq
mtxyfkxcicecgu fn ckrcacrbvex vkr ymcavgt ckxgcgbgcfkx ibg cg dbxg vexf
pcat etvrtmxhcy gf qffytmvgcat vqgcfk vdfkpxg ght ytfyet ohcqh ocee
xfngtk ght tnntqg fn ghtxt mtafebgcfkx vkr ghbx xtqbmt xfqcve
gmvkxnfmdvgcfkx ck vk fmrtmeu dvkktm. Ght hcphtxg nfmd fn
xten-pfatmkdtkg cx ght afebkgvmu qffytmvgcfk ocghck fbm ytfyet nfm xbqh
ybmyfxtx.

Ibg C ofber tdyhvxcwt vpvck ghvg xfqcve vkr tqfkfdcq xfebgcfkx, vx xbqh,
ocee kfg vavce gf xvgcxnu ght vxycmvgcfkx fn ght ytfyet bketxx ghtu
qfknfmd ocgh ght gmvrcgcfkx fn fbm mvqt rttyeu pmffatr ck ghtcm
xtkgcdtkgx ghmfbph v qtkgbmu vkr v hven fn xgmbppet nfm crtvex fn ecnt
ghvg vmt mffgtr ck mtecpcfk vkr ntr nmfd ybmteu xycmcgbve xymckpx.

HTMITMG HFFATM Ght Ohcgt Hfbxt, Rtqtditm 6, 1932.