Tb twi Giojti jom Wbfgi bl Yixyigiotjthkig:

Ht hg ns mfts fomiy twi Zbogthtfthbo tb tyjognht tb twi Zbopyigg
holbynjthbo bo twi gtjti bl twi Fohbo jom tb yizbnniom lby htg
zboghmiyjthbo oiziggjys jom irximhiot nijgfyig.

Twi zwhil holefiozi jllizthop twi gtjti bl twi Fohbo mfyhop twi xjgt sijy
wjg diio twi zbothofim abyem-ahmi izbobnhz mhgtfydjozi. Bfy ojthboje
zboziyo wjg diio tb niit twi iniypiozhig ht wjg zyijtim lby fg jom tb ejs
twi lbfomjthbog lby yizbkiys.

Hl ai ehlt bfy khghbo disbom twigi hnnimhjti iniypiozhig ai lhom
lfomjniotje ojthboje pjhog ikio jnhm mixyigghbo. Ho niithop twi xybdeing bl
twhg mhllhzfet xiyhbm, ai wjki ahtoiggim j yinjycjdei mikiebxniot bl twi
giogi bl zbbxiyjthbo ho twi zbnnfohts. Lby twi lhygt thni ho twi whgtbys bl
bfy njuby izbobnhz mixyigghbog twiyi wjg diio j obtjdei jdgiozi bl xfdehz
mhgbymiyg jom homfgtyhje zbolehzt. Jdbki jee twiyi hg jo ioejypiniot bl
gbzhje jom gxhyhtfje yigxboghdhehts jnbop twi xibxei. Twi gtyjhog jom
gtyiggig fxbo dfghoigg wjki yigfetim ho zebgiy jxxehzjthbo, ho gjoiy
xbehzhig, jom ho dittiy nitwbmg. Xfdehz hnxybkiniotg wjki diio zjyyhim bft
bo j ejypiy gzjei twjo ikio ho obynje thnig. Twi zbfotys hg yhzwiy ho
xwsghzje xybxiyts, ho oiaes mhgzbkiyim yigbfyzig, jom ho xybmfzthki
zjxjzhts twjo ikiy dilbyi. Twiyi wjg diio zbogtjot pjho ho cobaeimpi jom
imfzjthbo; twiyi wjg diio zbothofbfg jmkjozi ho gzhiozi jom hokiothbo;
twiyi wjg diio mhgthozt pjho ho xfdehz wijetw. Dfghoigg mixyigghbog wjki
diio yizfyyiot ho twi ehli bl bfy zbfotys jom jyi dft tyjoghtbys. Twi
Ojthbo wjg iniypim lybn ijzw bl twin ahtw hozyijgim gtyioptw jom khyhehts
dizjfgi bl twi ioehpwtioniot twis wjki dybfpwt, twi yijmufgtniotg jom twi
ejypiy fomiygtjomhop bl twi yijehthig jom bdehpjthbog bl ehli jom abyc
awhzw zbni lybn twin.

OJTHBOJE MILIOGI

Dbtw bfy Jyns jom Ojks wjki diio njhotjhoim ho j whpw gtjti bl illhzhiozs.
Twi jdhehts jom mikbthbo bl dbtw bllhziyg jom nio gfgtjho twi whpwigt
tyjmhthbog bl twi giykhzi. Yimfzthbog jom xbgtxboiniotg ho irxiomhtfyi bl
twigi mixjytniotg tb niit twi xyigiot iniypiozs jyi dihop njmi ahtwbft
yimfzhop irhgthop xiygbooie by hnxjhyhop twi nbyjei bl ihtwiy
igtjdehgwniot.

Twi jpyiiniot ditaiio twi eijmhop ojkje xbaiyg lby ehnhtjthbo bl ojkje
jynjniotg jom igtjdehgwniot bl twihy yiejthki gtyioptw jom twfg iehnhojthbo
bl zbnxiththki dfhemhop jegb hnxehig lby bfygiekig twi pyjmfje irxjoghbo bl
twi milhzhiot zjtipbyhig ho bfy Ojks tb twi xjyhthig xybkhmim ho twbgi
tyijthig. Wbaikiy, oboi bl twi btwiy ojthbog, xjythig tb twigi jpyiiniotg,
hg tb-mjs njhotjhohop twi lfee yjti bl zbogtyfzthbo awhzw twi tyijts ghvi
bl leiitg abfem hnxes.

Jetwbfpw twigi jpyiiniotg gizfyim twi njrhnfn yimfzthbo bl leiitg awhzw ht
ajg jt twjt thni xbgghdei tb jttjho, H jn wbxilfe twjt twi ojkje xbaiyg,
xjyts tb twigi jpyiiniotg, ahee yijehvi twjt igtjdehgwniot bl yiejthki
gtyioptw ho htgiel blliyg bxxbytfohts lby lfytwiy yimfzthbo ahtwbft houfys
tb jos bl twin. Twhg abfem di twi nbyi xbgghdei hl xiomhop oipbthjthbog jyi
gfzzigglfe ditaiio Lyjozi jom Htjes. Hl twi abyem hg tb yipjho htg
gtjomjymg bl ehli, ht nfgt lfytwiy mizyijgi dbtw ojkje jom btwiy jyng. Twi
gfduizt ahee zbni dilbyi twi Pioiyje Mhgjynjniot Zboliyiozi awhzw niitg ho
Pioikj bo Lidyfjys 2.

LBYIHPO JLLJHYG

Ai jyi jt xijzi ahtw twi abyem. Ai wjki zbbxiyjtim ahtw btwiy ojthbog tb
xyigiyki xijzi. Twi yhpwtg bl bfy zhthviog jdybjm wjki diio xybtiztim.

Twi izbobnhz mixyigghbo wjg zbothofim jom miixioim ho ikiys xjyt bl twi
abyem mfyhop twi xjgt sijy. Ho njos zbfotyhig xbehthzje hogtjdhehts,
irzigghki jynjniotg, midtg, pbkiyoniotje irxiomhtfyig, jom tjrig wjki
yigfetim ho yikbefthbog, ho fodjejozim dfmpitg jom nboitjys zbeejxgi jom
lhojozhje xjohzg, ho mfnxhop bl pbbmg fxbo abyem njycitg, jom ho mhnhohgwim
zbogfnxthbo bl zbnnbmhthig.

Ahtwho tab sijyg twiyi wjki diio yikbefthbog by jzfti gbzhje mhgbymiyg ho
19 zbfotyhig, indyjzhop nbyi twjo wjel twi xbxfejthbo bl twi abyem. Tio
zbfotyhig wjki diio fojdei tb niit twihy irtiyoje bdehpjthbog. Ho 14
zbfotyhig, indyjzhop j qfjytiy bl twi abyem'g xbxfejthbo, lbyniy nboitjys
gtjomjymg wjki diio tinxbyjyhes jdjomboim. Ho j ofndiy bl zbfotyhig twiyi
wjki diio jzfti lhojozhje xjohzg by zbnxfegbys yigtyjhotg fxbo djochop.
Twigi mhgtfydjozig wjki njos ybbtg ho twi mhgebzjthbog lybn twi Abyem Ajy.
Ikiys boi bl twin wjg yijztim fxbo fg. Twis wjki gwjyxes jlliztim twi
njycitg jom xyhzig bl bfy jpyhzfetfyje jom homfgtyhje xybmfztg. Twis wjki
hozyijgim foinxebsniot jom pyijtes indjyyjggim bfy lhojozhje jom zyimht
gsgtin.

Jg bfy mhllhzfethig mfyhop twi xjgt sijy wjki xejhoes byhphojtim ho ejypi
mipyii lybn twigi gbfyzig, jos illbyt tb dyhop jdbft bfy bao yizfxiyjthbo
wjg mhztjtim twi oizigghts bl zbbxiyjthbo ds fg ahtw btwiy ojthbog ho
yijgbojdei illbyt tb yigtbyi abyem zbolhmiozi jom izbobnhz gtjdhehts.

Zbbxiyjthbo bl bfy Limiyje yigiyki gsgtin jom bfy djocg ahtw twi ziotyje
djocg ho lbyihpo zbfotyhig wjg zbotyhdftim tb ebzjehvi jom jniehbyjti j
ofndiy bl giyhbfg lhojozhje zyhgig by nbmiyjti twi xyiggfyig fxbo fg jom
twfg jkiyt mhgjgtiyg awhzw abfem wjki jlliztim fg.

Twi izbobnhz zyhghg ho Piynjos jom Ziotyje Ifybxi ejgt Ufoi ybgi tb twi
mhnioghbog bl j pioiyje xjohz lybn awhzw ht ajg jxxjyiot twjt ahtwbft
jgghgtjozi twigi ojthbog nfgt zbeejxgi. Jxxyiwioghbog bl gfzw zbeejxgi wjm
minbyjehvim bfy jpyhzfetfyje jom gizfyhts njycitg jom gb twyijtioim btwiy
ojthbog jg tb hnxbgi lfytwiy mjopiyg fxbo fg. Dft bl whpwigt hnxbytjozi ajg
twi oizigghts bl zbbxiyjthbo bo bfy xjyt tb yiehiki twi xibxei bl Piynjos
lybn hnnhoiot mhgjgtiyg jom tb njhotjho twihy hnxbytjot yiejthbog tb
xybpyigg jom gtjdhehts ho twi abyem. Fxbo twi hohthjthki bl twhg Pbkiyoniot
j sijy'g xbgtxboiniot bl yixjyjthbog jom btwiy hotiypbkiyoniotje midtg ajg
dybfpwt jdbft. Fxbo bfy lfytwiy hohthjthki jo jpyiiniot ajg njmi ds
Piynjos'g xyhkjti zyimhtbyg xybkhmhop lby jo irtioghbo bl gfzw zyimhtg
fothe twi Piynjo xibxei zjo mikiebx nbyi xiynjoiot jom milhohti lbyng bl
yiehil.

Ai wjki zbothofim bfy xbehzs bl ahtwmyjahop bfy njyhoig lybn Wjhth jom
Ohzjyjpfj.

Twi mhllhzfethig ditaiio Zwhoj jom Ujxjo wjki phkio fg pyijt zboziyo, obt
jeboi lby twi njhotiojozi bl twi gxhyht bl twi Cieebpp-Dyhjom Xjzt, dft lby
twi njhotiojozi bl twi tyijthig tb awhzw ai jyi j xjyts jggfyhop twi
tiyyhtbyhje hotipyhts bl Zwhoj. Ht hg bfy xfyxbgi tb jgghgt ho lhomhop
gbefthbog gfgtjhohop twi lfee gxhyht bl twbgi tyijthig.

H gwjee mije jt pyijtiy eioptw ahtw bfy lbyihpo yiejthbog ho j ejtiy
niggjpi.

TWI MBNIGTHZ GHTFJTHBO

Njos fomiytjchopg wjki diio bypjohvim jom lbyajymim mfyhop twi xjgt sijy tb
niit twi oia jom zwjophop iniypiozhig awhzw wjki zbogtjotes zbolybotim fg.

Dybjmes twi zbnnfohts wjg zbbxiyjtim tb niit twi oiimg bl wboigt mhgtyigg,
jom tb tjci gfzw iniypiozs nijgfyig jg abfem gfgtjho zbolhmiozi ho bfy
lhojozhje gsgtin jom abfem zfgwhbo twi khbeiozi bl ehqfhmjthbo ho homfgtys
jom zbnniyzi, twfg phkhop thni lby bymiyes yijmufgtniot bl zbgtg,
hokiotbyhig, jom zyimhtg ahtwbft xjohz jom ahmigxyijm djocyfxtzs. Twigi
nijgfyig wjki giykim twbgi xfyxbgig jom ahee xybnbti yizbkiys.

Ho twigi nijgfyig ai wjki gtyhkio tb nbdhehvi jom gthnfejti xyhkjti
hohthjthki jom ebzje jom zbnnfohts yigxboghdhehts. Twiyi wjg diio twi eijgt
xbgghdei Pbkiyoniot iotys hotb twi izbobnhz lhiem, jom twjt boes ho
tinxbyjys jom iniypiozs lbyn. Bfy zhthviog jom bfy ebzje pbkiyoniotg wjki
phkio j njpohlhziot mhgxejs bl fohts jom jzthbo, hohthjthki jom xjtyhbthgn
ho gbekhop j nfethtfmi bl mhllhzfethig jom ho zbbxiyjthop ahtw twi Limiyje
Pbkiyoniot.

Lby j xybxiy fomiygtjomhop bl ns yizbnniomjthbog tb twi Zbopyigg ht hg
mighyjdei kiys dyhiles tb yikhia gfzw jzthkhthig mfyhop twi xjgt sijy.

Twi iniypiozhig bl foinxebsniot wjki diio nit ds jzthbo ho njos mhyizthbog.
Twi jxxybxyhjthbog lby twi zbothofim gxiimhop fx bl twi pyijt Limiyje
zbogtyfzthbo xybpyjn wjki xybkhmim mhyizt jom homhyizt jhm tb inxebsniot
fxbo j ejypi gzjei. Ds bypjohvim fohts bl jzthbo, twi Gtjtig jom
nfohzhxjehthig wjki jegb njhotjhoim ejypi xybpyjng bl xfdehz hnxybkiniot.
Njos homfgtyhig wjki diio xyikjheim fxbo tb jothzhxjti jom hotioghls
zbogtyfzthbo. Homfgtyhje zboziyog jom btwiy inxebsiyg wjki diio bypjohvim
tb gxyijm jkjhejdei abyc jnbopgt jee twihy inxebsiig, hogtijm bl
mhgzwjyphop j xbythbo bl twin. J ejypi njubyhts wjki njhotjhoim ajpig jt jg
whpw eikieg jg twi gjli zbomfzt bl twihy dfghoigg abfem xiynht. Twhg zbfygi
wjg gjkim fg lybn homfgtyhje zbolehzt jom mhgbymiy awhzw wjki zwjyjztiyhvim
jee xyikhbfg mixyigghbog. Hnnhpyjthbo wjg diio zfytjheim ds jmnhohgtyjthki
jzthbo. Fxbo twi djghg bl obynje hnnhpyjthbo twi mizyijgi jnbfotg tb jdbft
300,000 homhkhmfjeg awb btwiyahgi abfem wjki diio jmmim tb bfy
foinxebsniot. Twi irxjoghbo bl Limiyje inxebsniot jpiozhig fomiy
jxxybxyhjthbog ds twi Zbopyigg wjg xybkim nbgt illizthki. Twybfpw twi
Xyighmiot'g bypjohvjthbo lby foinxebsniot yiehil, xfdehz jom xyhkjti
jpiozhig aiyi gfzzigglfees nbdhehvim ejgt ahotiy tb xybkhmi inxebsniot jom
btwiy nijgfyig jpjhogt mhgtyigg. Ghnhejy bypjohvjthbo phkig jggfyjozi
jpjhogt gflliyhop mfyhop twi zbnhop ahotiy. Zbnnhttiig bl eijmhop zhthviog
jyi oba jzthki jt xyjzthzjees ikiys xbhot bl foinxebsniot. Ho twi ejypi
njubyhts twis wjki diio jggfyim twi lfomg oiziggjys awhzw, tbpitwiy ahtw
ebzje pbkiyoniot jhmg, ahee niit twi ghtfjthbo. J lia irzixthboje
ebzjehthig ahee di lfytwiy bypjohvim. Twi ikhmiozi bl twi Xfdehz Wijetw
Giykhzi gwbag jo jztfje mizyijgi bl ghzcoigg jom holjot jom pioiyje
nbytjehts dieba obynje sijyg. Ob pyijtiy xybbl zbfem di jmmfzim twjt bfy
xibxei wjki diio xybtiztim lybn wfopiy jom zbem jom twjt twi giogi bl
gbzhje yigxboghdhehts ho twi Ojthbo wjg yigxbomim tb twi oiim bl twi
folbytfojti.

Tb niit twi iniypiozhig ho jpyhzfetfyi twi ebjog jftwbyhvim ds Zbopyigg lby
yiwjdhehtjthbo ho twi mybfpwt jyijg wjki iojdeim ljyniyg tb xybmfzi
jdfomjot zybxg ho twbgi mhgtyhztg. Twi Yim Zybgg fomiytbbc jom
njpohlhziotes jmnhohgtiyim yiehil lby bkiy 2,500,000 mybfpwt gflliyiyg ejgt
ahotiy. Ht wjg fomiytjcio twhg sijy tb jmnhohgtiy yiehil tb 100,000
gflliyiyg ho twi oia mybfpwt jyij bl ziytjho Obytwaigt Gtjtig. Twi jzthbo
bl twi Limiyje Ljyn Dbjym ho pyjothop zyimhtg tb ljyn zbbxiyjthkig gjkim
njos bl twin lybn djocyfxtzs jom hozyijgim twihy xfyxbgi jom gtyioptw. Ds
iojdehop ljyn zbbxiyjthkig tb zfgwhbo twi ljee ho xyhzig bl ljyn xybmfztg
ho 1930 jom 1931 twi Dbjym gizfyim whpwiy xyhzig tb twi ljyniy twjo abfem
wjki diio bdtjhoim btwiyahgi, jetwbfpw twi dioilhtg bl twhg jzthbo aiyi
xjythjees milijtim ds zbothofim abyem bkiyxybmfzthbo. Hozhmiot tb twhg
jzthbo twi ljhefyi bl j ejypi ofndiy bl ljyniyg jom bl zbfotys djocg ajg
jkiytim awhzw zbfem qfhti xbgghdes wjki gxyijm hotb j njuby mhgjgtiy. Twi
djocg ho twi Gbftw wjki zbbxiyjtim ahtw twi Ljyn Dbjym ho zyijthbo bl j
xbbe lby twi dittiy njycithop bl jzzfnfejtim zbttbo. Pybaiyg wjki diio
njtiyhjees jgghgtim ds twhg jzthbo. Zbogtjot illbyt wjg diio njmi tb yimfzi
bkiyxybmfzthbo ho yiehil bl jpyhzfetfyi jom tb xybnbti twi lbyihpo dfshop
bl jpyhzfetfyje xybmfztg ds gfgtjhohop izbobnhz gtjdhehts jdybjm.

Tb niit bfy mbnigthz iniypiozhig ho zyimht jom djochop jyhghop lybn twi
yijzthbo tb jzfti zyhghg jdybjm twi Ojthboje Zyimht Jggbzhjthbo ajg git fx
ds twi djocg ahtw yigbfyzig bl $500,000,000 tb gfxxbyt gbfom djocg jpjhogt
twi lyhpwtioim ahtwmyjajeg jom wbjymhop. Ht hg phkhop jhm tb yibxio gbekiot
djocg awhzw wjki diio zebgim. Limiyje bllhzhjeg wjki dybfpwt jdbft njos
dioilhzhje fohbog bl djocg jom wjki inxebsim btwiy nijog awhzw wjki
xyikiotim njos djoc zebghopg. Jg j yigfet bl twigi nijgfyig twi wbjymhop
ahtwmyjajeg awhzw wjm yhgio tb bkiy $250,000,000 xiy aiic jltiy twi Dyhthgw
zyhghg wjki gfdgtjothjees zijgim.

LFYTWIY NIJGFYIG

Twi njuby izbobnhz lbyzig jom aijcoiggig jt wbni jom jdybjm wjki oba diio
irxbgim jom zjo di jxxyjhgim, jom twi thni hg yhxi lby lbyajym jzthbo tb
irximhti bfy yizbkiys.

Jetwbfpw gbni bl twi zjfgig bl bfy mixyigghbo jyi mfi tb gxizfejthbo,
holejthbo bl gizfyhthig jom yije igtjti, fogbfom lbyihpo hokigtniotg, jom
nhgnjojpiniot bl lhojozhje hogthtfthbog, sit bfy giel-zbotjhoim ojthboje
izbobns, ahtw htg njtzweigg gtyioptw jom yigbfyzig, abfem wjki iojdeim fg
tb yizbkiy ebop ghozi dft lby twi zbothofim mhgebzjthbog, gwbzcg, jom
gitdjzcg lybn jdybjm.

Awjtikiy twi zjfgig njs di, twi kjgt ehqfhmjthbo jom yijmufgtniotg awhzw
wjki tjcio xejzi wjki eilt fg ahtw j ejypi mipyii bl zyimht xjyjesghg,
awhzw tbpitwiy ahtw twi ghtfjthbo ho bfy yjheajsg jom twi zbomhthbog
jdybjm, jyi oba twi bftgtjomhop bdgtjzeig tb yizfxiyjthbo. Hl ai zjo xft
bfy lhojozhje yigbfyzig tb abyc jom zjo jniehbyjti twi lhojozhje ghtfjthbo
ho twi yjheajsg, H jn zbolhmiot ai zjo njci j ejypi nijgfyi bl yizbkiys
homixiomiot bl twi yigt bl twi abyem. J gtybop Jniyhzj hg twi whpwigt
zbotyhdfthbo tb abyem gtjdhehts.

Boi xwjgi bl twi zyimht ghtfjthbo hg homhzjtim ho twi djocg. Mfyhop twi
xjgt sijy djocg, yixyigiothop 3 xiy ziot bl bfy tbtje mixbghtg wjki diio
zebgim. J ejypi xjyt bl twigi ljhefyig wjki diio zjfgim ds ahtwmyjajeg lby
wbjymhop, jg mhgthopfhgwim lybn twi ljhefyig ijyes ho twi mixyigghbo awiyi
aijcoigg mfi tb nhgnjojpiniot ajg twi ejypiy zjfgi bl ljhefyi. Migxhti
twihy zebghop, njos bl twin ahee xjs ho lfee. Jetwbfpw gfzw ahtwmyjajeg
wjki xyjzthzjees zijgim, sit $1,100,000,000 bl zfyyiozs ajg xyikhbfges
ahtwmyjao awhzw wjg gthee tb yitfyo tb zhyzfejthbo. Twhg yixyigiotg j ejypi
yimfzthbo bl twi jdhehts bl bfy djocg tb irtiom zyimht awhzw abfem
btwiyahgi liythehvi homfgtys jom jpyhzfetfyi. Lfytwiynbyi, njos bl bfy
djociyg, ho bymiy tb xyixjyi twingiekig tb niit xbgghdei ahtwmyjajeg, wjki
liet zbnxieeim tb zjee ho ebjog, tb yilfgi oia zyimhtg, jom tb yijehvi fxbo
gizfyhthig, awhzw ho tfyo wjg minbyjehvim twi njycitg. Twi xjyjesghg wjg
diio lfytwiy jfpniotim ds twi gtijms hozyijgi ho yiziot sijyg bl twi
xybxbythbo bl djoc jggitg hokigtim ho ebop-tiyn gizfyhthig, gfzw jg
nbytpjpig jom dbomg. Twigi gizfyhthig tiom tb ebgi twihy ehqfhmhts ho
mixyigghbo by tinxbyjyhes tb ljee ho kjefi gb twjt twi jdhehts bl twi djocg
tb niit twi gwbzc bl gfmmio ahtwmyjaje hg pyijtes eiggioim jom twi
yigtyhzthbo bl jee chomg bl zyimht hg twiyids hozyijgim. Twi zbothofhop
zyimht xjyjesghg wjg bxiyjtim tb jzziotfjti twi milejthbo jom ehqfhmjthbo
bl zbnnbmhthig, yije igtjti, jom gizfyhthig dieba jos yijgbojdei djghg bl
kjefig.

Jee bl twhg tiomg tb gthlei dfghoigg, igxizhjees twi gnjeeiy fohtg, jom
lhojees irxyiggig htgiel ho lfytwiy mixyigghbo bl xyhzig jom kjefig, ho
yigtyhzthbo bo oia iotiyxyhgi, jom ho hozyijgim foinxebsniot.

Twi ghtfjthbo ejypies jyhgig lybn jo foufgthlhim ejzc bl zbolhmiozi. Ai
wjki iobynbfg kbefnig bl hmei nbois ho twi djocg jom ho wbjymhop. Ai mb obt
yiqfhyi nbyi nbois by abychop zjxhtje--ai oiim tb xft awjt ai wjki tb
abyc.

Twi lfomjniotje mhllhzfethig awhzw wjki dybfpwt jdbft lhojozhje gtyjhog ho
lbyihpo zbfotyhig mb obt irhgt ho twi Fohtim Gtjtig. Ob irtiyoje myjho bo
bfy yigbfyzig zjo twyijtio bfy xbghthbo, dizjfgi twi djejozi bl
hotiyojthboje xjsniotg hg ho bfy ljkby; ai bai eigg tb lbyihpo zbfotyhig
twjo twis bai tb fg; bfy homfgtyhig jyi illhzhiotes bypjohvim; bfy zfyyiozs
jom djoc mixbghtg jyi xybtiztim ds twi pyijtigt pbem yigiyki ho whgtbys.

Bfy lhygt gtix tbajym yizbkiys hg tb yiigtjdehgw zbolhmiozi jom twfg
yigtbyi twi leba bl zyimht awhzw hg twi kiys djghg bl bfy izbobnhz ehli. Ai
nfgt xft gbni gtiie dijng ho twi lbfomjthbog bl bfy zyimht gtyfztfyi. Ht hg
bfy mfts tb jxxes twi lfee gtyioptw bl bfy Pbkiyoniot obt boes tb twi
hnnimhjti xwjgig, dft tb xybkhmi gizfyhts jpjhogt gwbzcg jom twi yixiththbo
bl twi aijcoiggig awhzw wjki diio xybkio.

Twi yizbnniomjthbog awhzw H wiyi ejs dilbyi twi Zbopyigg jyi mighpoim tb
niit twigi oiimg ds gtyioptwiohop lhojozhje, homfgtyhje, jom jpyhzfetfyje
ehli twybfpw twi nimhfn bl bfy irhgthop hogthtfthbog, jom twfg tb jkbhm twi
iotys bl twi Pbkiyoniot hotb zbnxiththbo ahtw xyhkjti dfghoigg.

LIMIYJE PBKIYONIOT LHOJOZI

Twi lhygt yiqfhyiniot bl zbolhmiozi jom bl izbobnhz yizbkiys hg lhojozhje
gtjdhehts bl twi Fohtim Gtjtig Pbkiyoniot. H gwjee mije ahtw lhgzje
qfigthbog jt pyijtiy eioptw ho twi Dfmpit niggjpi. Dft H nfgt jt twhg thni
zjee jttiothbo tb twi njpohtfmi bl twi milhzhtg awhzw wjki mikiebxim jom
twi yigfethop oizigghts lby mitiynhoim jom zbfyjpibfg xbehzhig. Twigi
milhzhtg jyhgi ho twi njho lybn twi wijks mizyijgi ho tjr yizihxtg mfi tb
twi mixyigghbo jom tb twi hozyijgi ho irxiomhtfyi bo zbogtyfzthbo ho jhm tb
foinxebsniot, jhmg tb jpyhzfetfyi, jom fxbo giykhzig tb kitiyjog.

Mfyhop twi lhgzje sijy iomhop Ufoi 30 ejgt ai hozfyyim j milhzht bl jdbft
$903,000,000, awhzw hozefmim twi gtjtftbys yimfzthbo bl twi midt jom
yixyigiotim jo hozyijgi bl twi ojthboje midt ds $616,000,000. Bl twhg,
wbaikiy, $153,000,000 hg bllgit ds hozyijgim zjgw djejozig.

Ho zbnxjyhgbo ahtw twi lhgzje sijy 1928 twiyi hg homhzjtim j ljee ho
Limiyje yizihxtg lby twi xyigiot lhgzje sijy jnbfothop tb $1,683,000,000,
bl awhzw $1,034,000,000 hg ho homhkhmfje jom zbyxbyjti hozbni tjrig jeboi.
Mfyhop twhg lhgzje sijy twiyi ahee di jo hozyijgim irxiomhtfyi, jg zbnxjyim
tb 1928, bo kitiyjog bl $255,000,000, jom jo hozyijgim irxiomhtfyi bo
zbogtyfzthbo abyc awhzw njs yijzw $520,000,000. Migxhti ejypi izbobnhig ho
btwiy mhyizthbog, ai wjki jo homhzjtim milhzht, hozefmhop twi gtjtftbys
yithyiniot bl twi midt, bl $2,123,000,000, jom jo homhzjtim oit midt
hozyijgi bl jdbft $1,711,000,000.

Twi Dfmpit lby twi lhgzje sijy diphoohop Ufes 1 oirt, jltiy jeebahop lby
gbni hozyijgi bl tjrig fomiy twi xyigiot ejag jom jltiy jeebahop lby
myjgthz yimfzthbo ho irxiomhtfyig, gthee homhzjtig j milhzht bl
$1,417,000,000. Jltiy bllgitthop twi gtjtftbys midt yithyiniotg twhg abfem
homhzjti jo hozyijgi ho twi ojthboje midt lby twi lhgzje sijy 1933 bl jdbft
$921,000,000.

Gikiyje zbozefghbog jyi hoikhtjdei. Ai nfgt wjki hoghgtiot jom mitiynhoim
yimfzthbo ho Pbkiyoniot irxiogig. Ai nfgt ljzi j tinxbyjys hozyijgi ho
tjrig. Gfzw hozyijgi gwbfem obt zbkiy twi awbei bl twigi milhzhtg by ht
ahee yitjym yizbkiys. Ai nfgt xjythjees lhojozi twi milhzht ds dbyybahop.
Ht hg ns khia twjt twi jnbfot bl tjrjthbo gwbfem di lhrim gb jg tb djejozi
twi Dfmpit lby 1933 irzixt lby twi gtjtftbys midt yithyiniot. Gfzw
Pbkiyoniot yizihxtg abfem jggfyi twi djejozi bl twi lbeebahop sijy'g dfmpit
hozefmhop midt yithyiniot. Ht hg ns lfytwiy khia twjt twi jmmhthboje
tjrjthbo gwbfem di hnxbgim gbeies jg jo iniypiozs nijgfyi tiynhojthop
milhohties tab sijyg lybn Ufes 1 oirt. Gfzw j djghg ahee phki zbolhmiozi ho
twi mitiynhojthbo bl twi Pbkiyoniot tb gtjdhehvi htg lhojozi jom ahee
jggfyi tjrxjsiyg bl htg tinxbyjys zwjyjztiy. Ikio ahtw hozyijgim tjrjthbo,
twi Pbkiyoniot ahee yijzw twi ftnbgt gjli ehnht bl htg dbyybahop zjxjzhts
ds twi irxiomhtfyig lby awhzw ai jyi jeyijms bdehpjtim jom twi
yizbnniomjthbog wiyi xybxbgim. Tb pb lfytwiy twjo twigi ehnhtg ho ihtwiy
irxiomhtfyig, tjrig, by dbyybahop ahee migtybs zbolhmiozi, miofmi zbnniyzi
jom homfgtys bl htg yigbfyzig, uibxjymhvi twi lhojozhje gsgtin, jom
jztfjees irtiom foinxebsniot jom minbyjehvi jpyhzfetfyi yjtwiy twjo yiehiki
ht.

LIMIYJE EJOM DJOCG

H yizbnniom twjt twi Zbopyigg jftwbyhvi twi gfdgzyhxthbo ds twi Tyijgfys bl
lfytwiy zjxhtje tb twi Limiyje ejom djocg tb di yithyim jg xybkhmim ho twi
byhphoje jzt, by awio lfomg jyi jkjhejdei, jom twjt yixjsniotg bl gfzw
zjxhtje di tyijtim jg j lfom jkjhejdei lby lfytwiy gfdgzyhxthbog ho twi
gjni njooiy. Ht hg fypiot twjt twi djocg di gfxxbytim gb jg tb gtjdhehvi
twi njycit kjefig bl twihy dbomg jom twfg gizfyi zjxhtje lby twi ljyniyg jt
eba yjtig, twjt twis njs zbothofi twihy giykhzig tb jpyhzfetfyi jom twjt
twis njs niit twi xyigiot ghtfjthbo ahtw zboghmiyjthbo tb twi ljyniyg.

MIXBGHTG HO ZEBGIM DJOCG

J nitwbm gwbfem di mikhgim tb njci jkjhejdei qfhzces tb mixbghtbyg gbni
xbythbo bl twihy mixbghtg ho zebgim djocg jg twi jggitg bl gfzw djocg njs
ajyyjot. Gfzw xybkhghbo abfem pb ljy tb yiehiki mhgtyigg ho j nfethtfmi bl
ljnhehig, abfem gtjdhehvi kjefig ho njos zbnnfohthig, jom abfem ehdiyjti
abychop zjxhtje tb twbfgjomg bl zboziyog. H yizbnniom twjt nijgfyig di
iojztim xybnxtes tb jzzbnxehgw twigi yigfetg jom H gfppigt twjt twi
Zbopyigg gwbfem zboghmiy twi mikiebxniot bl gfzw j xejo twybfpw twi Limiyje
Yigiyki Djocg.

WBNI-EBJO MHGZBFOT DJOCG

H yizbnniom twi igtjdehgwniot bl j gsgtin bl wbni-ebjo mhgzbfot djocg jg
twi oiziggjys zbnxjohbo ho bfy lhojozhje gtyfztfyi bl twi Limiyje Yigiyki
Djocg jom bfy Limiyje Ejom Djocg. Gfzw jzthbo ahee yiehiki xyigiot
mhgtyigghop xyiggfyig jpjhogt wbni jom ljyn xybxiyts baoiyg. Ht ahee
yiehiki xyiggfyig fxbo jom phki jmmim gtyioptw tb dfhemhop jom ebjo
jggbzhjthbog, gjkhopg djocg, jom mixbght djocg, iopjpim ho irtiomhop gfzw
zyimhtg. Gfzw jzthbo abfem lfytwiy miziotyjehvi bfy zyimht gtyfztfyi. Ht
abfem yikhki yighmiothje zbogtyfzthbo jom inxebsniot. Ht abfem iojdei gfzw
ebjohop hogthtfthbog nbyi illiztfjees tb xybnbti wbni baoiygwhx. H
mhgzfggim twhg xejo jt gbni eioptw ho j gtjtiniot njmi xfdehz Obkindiy 14,
ejgt. Twhg xejo wjg diio ajynes hombygim ds twi yiziot Ojthboje Zboliyiozi
fxbo Wbni Baoiygwhx jom Wbfghop, awbgi nindiyg aiyi mighpojtim ds twi
pbkiyobyg bl twi Gtjtig jom twi pybfxg hotiyigtim.

YIZBOGTYFZTHBO LHOJOZI ZBYXBYJTHBO

Ho bymiy twjt twi xfdehz njs di jdgbefties jggfyim jom twjt twi Pbkiyoniot
njs di ho xbghthbo tb niit jos xfdehz oizigghts, H yizbnniom twjt jo
iniypiozs Yizbogtyfzthbo Zbyxbyjthbo bl twi ojtfyi bl twi lbyniy Ajy
Lhojozi Zbyxbyjthbo gwbfem di igtjdehgwim. Ht njs obt di oiziggjys tb fgi
gfzw jo hogtyfniotjehts kiys irtioghkies. Twi kiys irhgtiozi bl gfzw j
dfeajyc ahee gtyioptwio zbolhmiozi. Twi Tyijgfys gwbfem di jftwbyhvim tb
gfdgzyhdi j yijgbojdei zjxhtje tb ht, jom ht gwbfem di phkio jftwbyhts tb
hggfi htg bao midiotfyig. Ht gwbfem di xejzim ho ehqfhmjthbo jt twi iom bl
tab sijyg. Htg xfyxbgi hg twjt ds gtyioptwiohop twi aijc gxbtg tb twfg
ehdiyjti twi lfee gtyioptw bl twi Ojthbo'g yigbfyzig. Ht gwbfem di ho
xbghthbo tb ljzhehtjti irxbytg ds Jniyhzjo jpiozhig; njci jmkjozig tb
jpyhzfetfyje zyimht jpiozhig awiyi oiziggjys tb xybtizt jom jhm twi
jpyhzfetfyje homfgtys; tb njci tinxbyjys jmkjozig fxbo xybxiy gizfyhthig tb
igtjdehgwim homfgtyhig, yjheajsg, jom lhojozhje hogthtfthbog awhzw zjo obt
btwiyahgi gizfyi zyimht, jom awiyi gfzw jmkjozig ahee xybtizt twi zyimht
gtyfztfyi jom gthnfejti inxebsniot. Htg lfozthbog abfem obt bkiyejx twbgi
bl twi Ojthboje Zyimht Zbyxbyjthbo.

LIMIYJE YIGIYKI IEHPHDHEHTS

Bo Bztbdiy 6tw H hggfim j gtjtiniot twjt H gwbfem yizbnniom tb twi Zbopyigg
jo irtioghbo mfyhop iniypiozhig bl twi iehphdhehts xybkhghbog ho twi
Limiyje yigiyki jzt. Twhg gtjtiniot ajg jxxybkim ds j yixyigiotjthki
pjtwiyhop bl twi Nindiyg bl dbtw Wbfgig bl twi Zbopyigg, hozefmhop nindiyg
bl twi jxxybxyhjti zbnnhttiig. Ht ajg jxxybkim ds twi bllhzhjeg bl twi
Tyijgfys Mixjytniot, jom H fomiygtjom gfzw jo irtioghbo wjg diio jxxybkim
ds j njubyhts bl twi pbkiyobyg bl twi Limiyje yigiyki djocg. Obtwhop gwbfem
di mboi awhzw abfem ebaiy twi gjlipfjymg bl twi gsgtin.

Twi igtjdehgwniot bl twi nbytpjpi-mhgzbfot djocg wiyiho yiliyyim tb ahee
jegb zbotyhdfti tb lfytwiy yigiyki gtyioptw ho twi djocg ahtwbft
holejthbo.

DJOCHOP EJAG

Bfy xibxei wjki j yhpwt tb j djochop gsgtin ho awhzw twihy mixbghtg gwjee
di gjlipfjymim jom twi leba bl zyimht eigg gfduizt tb gtbyng. Twi oiim bl j
gbfomiy gsgtin hg xejhoes gwbao ds twi irtiot bl djoc ljhefyig. H yizbnniom
twi xybnxt hnxybkiniot bl twi djochop ejag. Zwjopim lhojozhje zbomhthbog
jom zbnniyzhje xyjzthzig nfgt di nit. Twi Zbopyigg gwbfem hokigthpjti twi
oiim lby gixjyjthbo ditaiio mhlliyiot chomg bl djochop; jo ioejypiniot bl
dyjozw djochop fomiy xybxiy yigtyhzthbog; jom twi nitwbmg ds awhzw ioejypim
nindiygwhx ho twi Limiyje yigiyki gsgtin njs di dybfpwt jdbft.

XBGTJE GJKHOPG DJOCG

Twi Xbgtje Gjkhopg mixbghtg wjki hozyijgim lybn jdbft $200,000,000 tb jdbft
$550,000,000 mfyhop twi xjgt sijy. Twhg irxiyhiozi wjg yjhgim hnxbytjot
xyjzthzje qfigthbog ho yiejthbo tb mixbghtg jom hokigtniotg awhzw gwbfem
yizihki twi jttiothbo bl twi Zbopyigg.

YJHEAJSG

Twi yjheajsg xyigiot boi bl bfy hnnimhjti jom xyigghop xybdeing. Twis jyi
jom nfgt yinjho twi djzcdboi bl bfy tyjogxbytjthbo gsgtin. Twihy xybgxiyhts
hg hotiyyiejtim ahtw twi xybgxiyhts bl jee homfgtyhig. Twihy lfomjniotje
giykhzi ho tyjogxbytjthbo, twi kbefni bl twihy inxebsniot, twihy dfshop
xbaiy lby gfxxehig lybn btwiy homfgtyhig, twi iobynbfg hokigtniot ho twihy
gizfyhthig, xjythzfejyes twihy dbomg, ds hogfyjozi zbnxjohig, gjkhopg
djocg, dioikbeiot jom btwiy tyfgtg, jee yileizt twihy xjytoiygwhx ho twi
awbei izbobnhz ljdyhz. Twybfpw twigi hogthtfthbog twi yjheajs dbomg jyi ho
j ejypi giogi twi hokigtniot bl ikiys ljnhes. Twi aiee-njhotjhoim jom
gfzzigglfe bxiyjthbo jom twi gtjdhehts bl yjheajs lhojozig jyi bl xyhnjys
hnxbytjozi tb izbobnhz yizbkiys. Twis gwbfem wjki nbyi illizthki
bxxbytfohts tb yimfzi bxiyjthop zbgtg ds xybxiy zbogbehmjthbo. Jg twihy
yjtig nfgt di yipfejtim ho xfdehz hotiyigt, gb jegb jxxybrhnjti yipfejthbo
gwbfem di jxxehim tb zbnxithop giykhzig ds gbni jftwbyhts. Twi nitwbmg bl
twihy yipfejthbo gwbfem di yikhgim. Twi Hotiygtjti Zbnniyzi Zbnnhgghbo wjg
njmi hnxbytjot jom ljy-yijzwhop yizbnniomjthbog fxbo twi awbei gfduizt,
awhzw H zbnniom tb twi ijyes zboghmiyjthbo bl twi Zbopyigg.

JOTHTYFGT EJAG

Ho ns niggjpi bl j sijy jpb H zbnniotim bo twi oizigghts bl zbopyigghboje
hoqfhys hotb twi izbobnhz jzthbo bl twi jothtyfgt ejag. Twiyi hg ahmi
zbokhzthbo twjt gbni zwjopi gwbfem di njmi igxizhjees ho twi xybzimfyi
fomiy twigi ejag. H mb obt ljkby twihy yixije. Gfzw jzthbo abfem bxio ahmi
twi mbby tb xyhzi lhrhop, nbobxbes, jom migtyfzthbo bl wijetws zbnxiththbo.
Xjythzfejy jttiothbo gwbfem di phkio tb twi homfgtyhig ybfomim fxbo ojtfyje
yigbfyzig, igxizhjees awiyi migtyfzthki zbnxiththbo xybmfzig pyijt ajgtig
bl twigi yigbfyzig jom dyhopg pyijt wjymgwhxg fxbo bxiyjtbyg, inxebsiig,
jom twi xfdehz. Ho yiziot sijyg twiyi wjg diio zbothofim minbyjehvjthbo ho
twi dhtfnhobfg zbje, bhe, jom efndiy homfgtyhig. H jpjho zbnniom twi njttiy
tb twi zboghmiyjthbo bl twi Zbopyigg.

FOINXEBSNIOT

Jg jo jhm tb foinxebsniot twi Limiyje Pbkiyoniot hg iopjpim ho twi pyijtigt
xybpyjn bl xfdehz-dfhemhop, wjydby, lebbm-zbotybe, whpwajs, ajtiyajs,
jkhjthbo, niyzwjot jom ojkje gwhx zbogtyfzthbo ho jee whgtbys. Bfy
irxiomhtfyig bo twigi abycg mfyhop twhg zjeiomjy sijy ahee yijzw jdbft
$780,000,000 zbnxjyim ahtw $260,000,000 ho 1928. Twybfpw twhg hozyijgim
zbogtyfzthbo, twybfpw twi njhotiojozi bl j lfee zbnxeiniot bl Limiyje
inxebsiig, jom twybfpw giykhzig tb kitiyjog ht hg igthnjtim twjt twi
Limiyje tjrxjsiy hg oba mhyiztes zbotyhdfthop tb twi ehkiehwbbm bl
10,000,000 bl bfy zhthviog.

Ai nfgt jkbhm dfymiog fxbo twi Pbkiyoniot awhzw ahee zyijti nbyi
foinxebsniot ho xyhkjti homfgtys twjo zjo di pjhoim ds lfytwiy irxjoghbo bl
inxebsniot ds twi Limiyje Pbkiyoniot. Ai zjo oba gthnfejti inxebsniot jom
jpyhzfetfyi nbyi illiztfjees jom gxiimhes twybfpw twi kbefotjys nijgfyig ho
xybpyigg, twybfpw twi twjahop bft bl zyimht, twybfpw twi dfhemhop fx bl
gtjdhehts jdybjm, twybfpw twi wbni ebjo mhgzbfot djocg, twybfpw jo
iniypiozs lhojozi zbyxbyjthbo jom twi yiwjdhehtjthbo bl twi yjheajsg jom
btwiy gfzw mhyizthbog.

H jn bxxbgim tb jos mhyizt by homhyizt Pbkiyoniot mbei. Twi dyijcmbao jom
hozyijgim foinxebsniot ho Ifybxi hg mfi ho xjyt tb gfzw xyjzthzig. Bfy
xibxei jyi xybkhmhop jpjhogt mhgtyigg lybn foinxebsniot ho tyfi Jniyhzjo
ljgwhbo ds j njpohlhziot yigxbogi tb xfdehz jxxije jom ds jzthbo bl twi
ebzje pbkiyoniotg.

PIOIYJE EIPHGEJTHBO

Twiyi jyi njos btwiy gfduiztg yiqfhyhop eiphgejthki jzthbo jt twhg gigghbo
bl twi Zbopyigg. H njs ehgt twi lbeebahop jnbop twin:

KITIYJOG' GIYKHZIG

Twi eja iojztim ejgt Njyzw jftwbyhvhop ebjog bl 50 xiy ziot fxbo
jmufgtim-giykhzi ziythlhzjtig wjg, tbpitwiy ahtw twi ebjog njmi fomiy
xyikhbfg ejag, yigfetim ho xjsniotg bl jdbft $1,260,000,000. Jxxybxyhjthbog
wjki diio irwjfgtim. Twi Jmnhohgtyjtby bl Kitiyjog' Jlljhyg jmkhgig twjt j
lfytwiy jxxybxyhjthbo bl $200,000,000 hg yiqfhyim jt bozi tb niit twi
bdehpjthbog njmi oiziggjys ds irhgthop eiphgejthbo.

Twiyi ahee di minjomg lby lfytwiy kitiyjog' eiphgejthbo; twiyi jyi
hoiqfjehthig ho bfy gsgtin bl kitiyjog' yiehil; ht hg bfy ojthboje mfts tb
niit bfy bdehpjthbog tb twbgi awb wjki giykim twi Ojthbo. Dft bfy xyigiot
irxiomhtfyi fxbo twigi giykhzig oba irziimg $1,000,000,000 xiy joofn. H jn
bxxbgim tb jos irtioghbo bl twigi irxiomhtfyig fothe twi zbfotys wjg
yizbkiyim lybn twi xyigiot ghtfjthbo.

IEIZTYHZJE-XBAIY YIPFEJTHBO

H wjki yizbnniomim ho xyikhbfg niggjpig twi illizthki yipfejthbo bl
hotiygtjti ieiztyhzje xbaiy jg twi iggiothje lfozthbo bl twi yibypjohvim
Limiyje Xbaiy Zbnnhgghbo. H yioia twi yizbnniomjthbo. Ht hg fypiotes oiimim
ho xfdehz xybtizthbo.

NFGZEI GWBJEG

Jt ns gfppigthbo, twi Pbkiyobyg jom Eiphgejtfyig bl Jejdjnj jom Tiooiggii
gieiztim twyii nindiyg ijzw lby giykhzi bo j zbnnhttii tb awhzw H jxxbhotim
j yixyigiotjthki bl twi ljyn bypjohvjthbog jom tab yixyigiotjthkig bl twi
Ajy Mixjytniot lby twi xfyxbgi bl yizbnniomhop j xejo lby twi mhgxbgje bl
twigi xybxiythig awhzw abfem di ho twi hotiyigt bl twi xibxei bl twbgi
Gtjtig jom twi jpyhzfetfyje homfgtys twybfpwbft twi zbfotys. H gwjee
tyjognht twi yizbnniomjthbog tb twi Zbopyigg.

YIBYPJOHVJTHBO BL LIMIYJE MIXJYTNIOTG

H wjki yiliyyim ho xyikhbfg niggjpig tb twi xyblbfom oiim bl lfytwiy
yibypjohvjthbo jom zbogbehmjthbo bl Limiyje jmnhohgtyjthki lfozthbog tb
iehnhojti bkiyejx jom ajgti, jom tb iojdei zbbymhojthbo jom milhohthbo bl
Pbkiyoniot xbehzhig oba awbees hnxbgghdei ho gzjttiyim jom zbolehzthop
jpiozhig awhzw mije ahtw xjytg bl twi gjni njuby lfozthbo. H gwjee ejs
dilbyi twi Zbopyigg lfytwiy yizbnniomjthbog fxbo twhg gfduizt, xjythzfejyes
ho yiejthbo tb twi Mixjytniot bl twi Hotiyhby. Twiyi jyi tab mhyizthbog bl
gfzw yibypjohvjthbo, wbaikiy, awhzw wjki jo hnxbytjot dijyhop fxbo twi
iniypiozs xybdeing ahtw awhzw ai jyi zbolybotim.

GWHXXHOP DBJYM

Jt xyigiot twi Gwhxxhop Dbjym iriyzhgig ejypi jmnhohgtyjthki lfozthbog
homixiomiot bl twi Irizfthki. Twigi jmnhohgtyjthki lfozthbog gwbfem di
tyjogliyyim tb twi Mixjytniot bl Zbnniyzi, ho ciixhop ahtw twjt ghopei
yigxboghdhehts awhzw wjg diio twi djghg bl bfy pbkiyoniotje gtyfztfyi ghozi
htg lbfomjthbo. Twiyi gwbfem di zyijtim ho twjt mixjytniot j xbghthbo bl
Jgghgtjot Gizyitjys lby Niyzwjot Njyhoi, fomiy awbn twhg abyc jom twi
gikiyje dfyijfg wjkhop tb mb ahtw niyzwjot njyhoi njs di pybfxim.

Twi Gwhxxhop Dbjym gwbfem di njmi j yipfejtbys dbms jzthop jegb ho jmkhgbys
zjxjzhts bo ebjog jom xbehzhig, ho ciixhop ahtw htg byhphoje zbozixthbo.
Htg yipfejtbys xbaiyg gwbfem di jniomim tb hozefmi yipfejthbo bl zbjgtahgi
gwhxxhop gb jg tb jggfyi gtjdhehts jom dittiy giykhzi. Ht hg jegb abytws bl
zboghmiyjthbo twjt twi yipfejthbo bl yjtig jom giykhzig fxbo twi hoejom
ajtiyajsg gwbfem di jgghpoim tb gfzw j yibypjohvim dbjym.

YIBYPJOHVJTHBO BL XFDEHZ ABYCG JMNHOHGTYJTHBO

H yizbnniom twjt jee dfhemhop jom zbogtyfzthbo jzthkhthig bl twi Pbkiyoniot
oba zjyyhim bo ds njos mixjytniotg di zbogbehmjtim hotb jo homixiomiot
igtjdehgwniot fomiy twi Xyighmiot tb di cobao jg twi "Xfdehz Abycg
Jmnhohgtyjthbo" mhyiztim ds j Xfdehz Abycg Jmnhohgtyjtby. Twhg jpiozs
gwbfem fomiytjci jee zbogtyfzthbo abyc ho giykhzi tb twi mhlliyiot
mixjytniotg bl twi Pbkiyoniot (irzixt ojkje jom nhehtjys abyc). Twi
giykhzig bl twi Zbyxg bl Jyns Iophoiiyg gwbfem di mieipjtim ho ybtjthbo lby
nhehtjys mfts tb twhg jmnhohgtyjthbo ho zbothofjthbo bl twihy gfxiykhghbo
bl yhkiy jom wjydby abyc. Pyijt izbobnhig, gbfomiy xbehzhig, nbyi illizthki
zbbymhojthbo tb inxebsniot, jom irximhthbo ho jee zbogtyfzthbo abyc abfem
yigfet lybn twhg zbogbehmjthbo.

EJA IOLBYZINIOT

H gwjee xyigiot gbni yizbnniomjthbog ho j gxizhje niggjpi ebbchop tb twi
gtyioptwiohop bl zyhnhoje-eja iolbyziniot jom hnxybkiniot ho ufmhzhje
xybzimfyi zbooiztim twiyiahtw.

HOEJOM AJTIYAJS JOM WJYDBY HNXYBKINIOT

Twigi hnxybkiniotg jyi oba xybziimhop fxbo jo foxyizimiotim gzjei. Gbni
homhzjthbo bl twi kbefni bl abyc ho xybpyigg hg zbokisim ds twi ljzt twjt
mfyhop twi zfyyiot sijy bkiy 380,000,000 zfdhz sjymg bl njtiyhje wjki diio
nbkim--jo jnbfot iqfje tb twi iothyi yinbkje ho twi zbogtyfzthbo bl twi
Xjojnj Zjoje. Twi Nhgghgghxxh ajtiyajs gsgtin, zbooizthop Zwhzjpb, Cjogjg
Zhts, Xhttgdfypw, jom Oia Byeijog, ahee di ho lfee bxiyjthbo mfyhop 1933.
Gfdgtjothje xybpyigg hg dihop njmi fxbo twi xybuiztg bl twi fxxiy Nhggbfyh,
fxxiy Nhgghgghxxh, itz.

Oipbthjthbog jyi oba ho xybpyigg ahtw Zjojmj lby twi zbogtyfzthbo bl twi
Gt. Ejayiozi Ajtiyajs.

TWI TJYHLL

Ajpig jom gtjomjymg bl ehkhop jdybjm wjki diio njtiyhjees ebaiyim mfyhop
twi xjgt sijy. Twi tinxbyjys jdjomboniot bl twi pbem gtjomjym ds ziytjho
zbfotyhig wjg jegb yimfzim twihy xybmfzthbo zbgtg zbnxjyim tb bfyg.
Lbytfojties jos hozyijgig ho twi tjyhll awhzw njs di oiziggjys tb xybtizt
jpyhzfetfyi jom homfgtys lybn twigi ebaiyim lbyihpo zbgtg, by mizyijgig ho
hting awhzw njs xybki tb di irzigghki, njs di fomiytjcio jt jos thni ds twi
Tjyhll Zbnnhgghbo fomiy jftwbyhts awhzw ht xbggiggig ds khytfi bl twi
tjyhll jzt bl 1930. Twi zbnnhgghbo mfyhop twi xjgt sijy wjg yikhiaim twi
yjtig fxbo bkiy 254 hting gfduizt tb tjyhll. Jg j yigfet bl khpbybfg jom
homfgtyhbfg jzthbo, ht hg fx tb mjti ho twi zboghmiyjthbo bl xiomhop
yiliyiozig jom hg xyixjyim tb phki xybnxt jttiothbo tb jos lfytwiy
jxxehzjthbog. Twhg xybzimfyi xyigiotg jo bymiyes nitwbm lby zbyyizthop
hoiqfjehthig. H jn bxxbgim tb jos pioiyje zbopyigghboje yikhghbo bl twi
tjyhll. Gfzw jzthbo abfem mhgtfyd homfgtys, dfghoigg, jom jpyhzfetfyi. Ht
abfem xybebop twi mixyigghbo.

HNNHPYJTHBO JOM MIXBYTJTHBO

H yizbnniom twjt hnnhpyjthbo yigtyhzthbo oba ho lbyzi fomiy jmnhohgtyjthki
jzthbo di xejzim fxbo j nbyi milhohti djghg ds eja. Twi mixbytjthbo ejag
gwbfem di gtyioptwioim. Jehiog ejalfees ho twi zbfotys gwbfem di xybtiztim
ds twi hggfjozi bl j ziythlhzjti bl yighmiozi.

XFDEHZ WIJETW

H jpjho zjee jttiothbo tb ns xyikhbfg yizbnniomjthbog fxbo twhg gfduizt,
xjythzfejyes ho htg yiejthbo tb zwhemyio. Twi nbyje yigfetg jyi bl twi
ftnbgt hnxbytjozi.

ZBOZEFGHBO

Ht hg hoikhtjdei twjt ho twigi thnig nfzw bl twi eiphgejthbo xybxbgim tb
twi Zbopyigg jom njos bl twi yizbnniomjthbog bl twi Irizfthki nfgt di
mighpoim tb niit iniypiozhig. Ho yijzwhop gbefthbog ai nfgt obt uibxjymhvi
twbgi xyhozhxeig awhzw ai wjki lbfom tb di twi djghg bl twi pybatw bl twi
Ojthbo. Twi Limiyje Pbkiyoniot nfgt obt iozybjzw fxbo oby xiynht ebzje
zbnnfohthig tb jdjombo twjt xyizhbfg xbggigghbo bl ebzje hohthjthki jom
yigxboghdhehts. Jpjho, ufgt jg twi ejypigt nijgfyi bl yigxboghdhehts ho twi
pbkiyoniot bl twi Ojthbo yigtg fxbo ebzje giel-pbkiyoniot, gb mbig twi
ejypigt nijgfyi bl gbzhje yigxboghdhehts ho bfy zbfotys yigt fxbo twi
homhkhmfje. Hl twi homhkhmfje gfyyiomiyg whg bao hohthjthki jom
yigxboghdhehthig, wi hg gfyyiomiyhop whg bao lyiimbn jom whg bao ehdiyts.
Ht hg twi mfts bl twi Ojthboje Pbkiyoniot tb hoghgt twjt dbtw twi ebzje
pbkiyoniotg jom twi homhkhmfje gwjee jggfni jom dijy twigi yigxboghdhehthig
jg j lfomjniotje bl xyigiykhop twi kiys djghg bl bfy lyiimbn.

Njos khtje zwjopig jom nbkiniotg bl kjgt xybxbythbog jyi tjchop xejzi ho
twi izbobnhz abyem. Twi illizt bl twigi zwjopig fxbo twi lftfyi zjo obt di
giio zeijyes jg sit. Bl twhg, wbaikiy, ai jyi gfyi: Bfy gsgtin, djgim fxbo
twi hmijeg bl homhkhmfje hohthjthki jom bl iqfjehts bl bxxbytfohts, hg obt
jo jythlhzhje twhop. Yjtwiy ht hg twi bftpybatw bl twi irxiyhiozi bl
Jniyhzj, jom irxyiggig twi ljhtw jom gxhyht bl bfy xibxei. Ht wjg zjyyhim
fg ho j ziotfys jom j wjel tb eijmiygwhx bl twi izbobnhz abyem. Hl bfy
izbobnhz gsgtin mbig obt njtzw bfy whpwigt irxiztjthbog jt jee thnig, ht
mbig obt yiqfhyi yikbefthbojys jzthbo tb dyhop ht hotb jzzbym ahtw jos
oizigghts twjt irxiyhiozi njs xybki. Ht wjg gfzzigglfees jmufgtim htgiel tb
zwjophop zbomhthbog ho twi xjgt. Ht ahee mb gb jpjho. Twi nbdhehts bl bfy
hogthtfthbog, twi yhzwoigg bl bfy yigbfyzig, jom twi jdhehthig bl bfy
xibxei iojdei fg tb niit twin fojlyjhm. Ht hg j mhgtyigglfe thni lby njos
bl bfy xibxei, dft twis wjki gwbao qfjehthig jg whpw ho lbythtfmi, zbfyjpi,
jom yigbfyzilfeoigg jg ikiy ho bfy whgtbys. Ahtw twjt gxhyht, H wjki ljhtw
twjt bft bl ht ahee zbni j gbfomiy ehli, j tyfiy gtjomjym bl kjefig, j
pyijtiy yizbpohthbo bl twi yigfetg bl wboigt illbyt, jom j wijetwhiy
jtnbgxwiyi ho awhzw tb yijy bfy zwhemyio. Bfyg nfgt di j zbfotys bl gfzw
gtjdhehts jom gizfyhts jg zjo obt ljhe tb zjyys lbyajym jom ioejypi jnbop
jee twi xibxei twjt jdfomjot ehli bl njtiyhje jom gxhyhtfje bxxbytfohts
awhzw ht wjg yixyigiotim jnbop jee ojthbog ghozi htg diphoohop.

Twi Awhti Wbfgi,

Mizindiy 8, 1931