Lb lku Qucvlu vch Kbyqu bx Rufruquclvlwjuq:

Lku Zbcqlwlylwbc rusywruq lkvl lku Fruqwhucl "qkvtt, xrbi lwiu lb lwiu,
pwju lb lku Zbcpruqq wcxbrivlwbc bx lku qlvlu bx lku Ycwbc, vch ruzbiiuch
lb lkuwr zbcqwhurvlwbc qyzk iuvqyruq vq ku qkvtt dyhpu cuzuqqvrn vch
ugfuhwucl." Wc zbiftnwcp ewlk lkvl rusywruiucl W ewqk lb uifkvqwmu lkvl
hyrwcp lku fvql nuvr lku Cvlwbc kvq zbclwcyuh lb prbe wc qlrucplk; byr
fubftu kvju vhjvczuh wc zbixbrl; eu kvju pvwcuh wc acbetuhpu; lku uhyzvlwbc
bx nbylk kvq ouuc ibru ewhutn qfruvh; ibrvt vch qfwrwlyvt xbrzuq kvju ouuc
ivwclvwcuh; fuvzu kvq ouzbiu ibru vqqyruh. Lku frbotuiq ewlk ekwzk eu vru
zbcxrbcluh vru lku frbotuiq bx prbelk vch bx frbpruqq. Wc lkuwr qbtylwbc eu
kvju lb huluriwcu lku xvzlq, lb hujutbf lku rutvlwju wifbrlvczu lb ou
vqqwpcuh lb qyzk xvzlq, lb xbriytvlu v zbiibc dyhpiucl yfbc lkui, vch lb
ruvtwmu qbtylwbcq wc qfwrwl bx zbczwtwvlwbc.

XBRUWPC RUTVLWBCQ

Eu vru cbl bctn vl fuvzu ewlk vtt lku ebrth, oyl lku xbychvlwbcq xbr xylyru
fuvzu vru ouwcp qyoqlvclwvttn qlrucplkucuh. Lb frbiblu fuvzu wq byr
tbcp-uqlvotwqkuh fbtwzn. Lkrbypk lku Auttbpp-Orwvch fvzl v pruvl ibrvt
qlvchvrh kvq ouuc rvwquh wc lku ebrth. On wl xwxln-xbyr cvlwbcq kvju
zbjucvcluh lb rucbyczu evr vch lb qulltu vtt hwqfyluq on fvzwxwz iuvcq.
Lkrbypk wl v cue ebrth byltbba kvq ouuc wcvypyrvluh ekwzk kvq frbxbychtn
vxxuzluh lku xbruwpc fbtwzwuq bx cvlwbcq. Qwczu wlq wcvypyrvlwbc eu kvju
wcwlwvluh cue uxxbrlq cbl bctn wc lku brpvcwmvlwbc bx lku ivzkwcurn bx
fuvzu oyl vtqb lb utwiwcvlu hvcpurbyq xbrzuq ekwzk frbhyzu zbclrbjurqwuq
vibcpql cvlwbcq.

Wc Dvcyvrn, 1926, lku Qucvlu pvju wlq zbcqucl lb vhkuruczu lb lku Zbyrl bx
Wclurcvlwbcvt Dyqlwzu ewlk zurlvwc ruqurjvlwbcq. Wc Qufluiour bx lkwq nuvr
lku qlvlylu uqlvotwqkwcp lku zbyrl kvq, on lku vzlwbc bx lku cvlwbcq
qwpcvlbrn, ouuc viuchuh lb iuul lku Qucvlu'q ruqurjvlwbcq vch lb pb ujuc
ounbch lkbqu ruqurjvlwbcq lb ivau ztuvr lkvl lku zbyrl wq v lryu
wclurcvlwbcvt zbyrl bx dyqlwzu. W outwuju wl ewtt ou ztuvr lb ujurnbcu lkvl
cb zbclrbjurqn br syuqlwbc wc ekwzk lkwq zbyclrn kvq br ztvwiq vc wcluruql
zvc ou fvqquh bc on lku zbyrl ewlkbyl byr zbcqucl vl lku lwiu lku syuqlwbc
vrwquq. Lku hbyol vobyl vhjwqbrn bfwcwbcq kvq ouuc zbiftulutn qvxupyvrhuh.
Byr vhkuruczu lb lku Wclurcvlwbcvt Zbyrl wq, vq cbe zbcqlwlyluh, cbl lku
qtwpkluql qluf lbevrh uclrn wclb lku Tuvpyu bx Cvlwbcq. Vq W kvju ouxbru
wchwzvluh, W qkvtt hwruzl lkvl byr qwpcvlyru ou vxxwguh lb lku frblbzbt bx
vhkuruczu vch qkvtt qyoiwl wl xbr lku vffrbjvt bx lku Qucvlu ewlk v qfuzwvt
iuqqvpu vl qbiu lwiu ekuc wl wq zbcjucwucl lb huvt ewlk wl.

Wc lku kbfu bx ruhyzwcp xrwzlwbc wc lku ebrth, vch ewlk lku huqwru lkvl eu
ivn ruhyzu lku pruvl uzbcbiwz oyrhucq bx cvjvt vriviucl, eu kvju dbwcuh wc
zbcxuruczu ewlk Pruvl Orwlvwc, Xrvczu, Wlvtn, vch Dvfvc lb ou kuth wc
Tbchbc wc Dvcyvrn lb zbcqwhur lku xyrlkur twiwlvlwbc vch ruhyzlwbc bx cvjvt
vriq. Eu kbth kwpk kbfuq lkvl qyzzuqq ivn vlluch lkwq uxxbrl.

Vl lku oupwccwcp bx lku fruqucl vhiwcwqlrvlwbc lku cuwpkobrwcp Qlvlu bx
Iugwzb evq ouql ewlk hbiuqlwz wcqyrruzlwbc. Eu ivwclvwcuh lku uiovrpb yfbc
lku qkwfiucl bx vriq lb Iugwzb oyl furiwlluh lku hytn zbcqlwlyluh
Pbjurciucl lb frbzyru qyfftwuq xrbi byr qyrftyq evr qlbzaq. Xbrlycvlutn,
lku Iugwzvc Pbjurciucl on wlq bec qlrucplk qyzzuqqxyttn ewlkqlbbh lku
wcqyrruzlwbc ewlk oyl qtwpkl hvivpu. Bffbrlycwln bx xyrlkur fuvzuxyt
hujutbfiucl wq pwjuc lb lkvl zbyclrn. Vl lku rusyuql bx lku Iugwzvc
Pbjurciucl, eu kvju qwczu twxluh lku uiovrpb bc qkwfiucl bx vriq
vtlbpulkur. Lku leb pbjurciuclq kvju lvauc xyrlkur qlufq lb frbiblu
xrwuchtn rutvlwbcqkwfq vch qb qbtju byr hwxxuruczuq. Zbcjuclwbcq frbtbcpwcp
xbr v furwbh bx leb nuvrq lku twxu bx lku pucurvt vch qfuzwvt ztvwiq
zbiiwqqwbcq kvju ouuc zbcztyhuh.

Wc Qbylk Viurwzv eu vru frbyh lb kvju kvh fvrl wc lku qulltuiucl bx lku
tbcp-qlvchwcp hwqfylu ouleuuc Zkwtu vch Fury wc lku hwqfbqvt bx lku
syuqlwbc bx Lvzcv-Vrwzv.

Lku ebra bx lku zbiiwqqwbc bx wcsywrn vch zbczwtwvlwbc ouleuuc Obtwjwv vch
Fvrvpyvn, wc ekwzk v rufruquclvlwju bx lkwq Pbjurciucl fvrlwzwfvluh, kvq
qyzzuqqxyttn luriwcvluh vc wczwhucl ekwzk quuiuh lb lkruvluc evr. Lku
frbfbquh ftvc xbr xwcvt qulltuiucl vq qyppuqluh on lku cuylrvt pbjurciuclq
wq qlwtt ychur zbcqwhurvlwbc.

Lkwq Pbjurciucl kvq zbclwcyuh wlq uxxbrlq lb vzl vq v iuhwvlbr wc obychvrn
hwxxwzytlwuq ouleuuc Pyvluivtv vch Kbchyrvq.

V xyrlkur wcqlvczu bx frbxbych wifbrlvczu wc uqlvotwqkwcp pbbh ewtt evq lku
wcvypyrvlwbc bx rupytvr vwr ivwt qurjwzu ouleuuc lku Ycwluh Qlvluq vch
Zvrwoouvc, Zuclrvt Viurwzvc, vch Qbylk Viurwzvc zbyclrwuq.

Eu qlwtt kvju ivrwcuq bc xbruwpc qbwt--wc Cwzvrvpyv, Kvwlw, vch Zkwcv. Wc
lku tvrpu qucqu eu hb cbl ewqk lb ou rufruqucluh vorbvh wc qyzk ivccur.
Vobyl 1,600 ivrwcuq ruivwc wc Cwzvrvpyv vl lku yrpucl rusyuql bx lkvl
pbjurciucl vch lku tuvhurq bx vtt fvrlwuq fuchwcp lku lrvwcwcp bx v
hbiuqlwz zbcqlvoytvrn zvfvotu bx wcqyrwcp lrvcsywtwln. Eu kvju vtruvhn
ruhyzuh lkuqu xbrzuq ivlurwvttn vch eu vru vcgwbyq lb ewlkhrve lkui xyrlkur
vq lku qwlyvlwbc evrrvclq. Wc Kvwlw eu kvju vobyl 700 ivrwcuq, oyl wl wq v
iyzk ibru hwxxwzytl frbotui, lku qbtylwbc bx ekwzk wq qlwtt boqzyru. Wx
Zbcpruqq vffrbjuq, W qkvtt hwqfvlzk v zbiiwqqwbc lb Kvwlw lb rujwue vch
qlyhn lku ivllur wc vc uchuvjbr lb vrrwju vl qbiu ibru huxwcwlu fbtwzn lkvc
vl fruqucl. Byr xbrzuq wc Zkwcv zbcqlwlylu 2,605 iuc, ekwzk eu kbfu vtqb
xyrlkur lb ruhyzu lb lku cbrivt tupvlwbc pyvrh.

Wl wq in huqwru lb uqlvotwqk ibru xwritn byr ychurqlvchwcp vch
rutvlwbcqkwfq ewlk lku Tvlwc Viurwzvc zbyclrwuq on qlrucplkucwcp lku
hwftbivlwz iwqqwbcq lb lkbqu zbyclrwuq. Wl wq in kbfu lb quzyru iuc tbcp
ugfurwuczuh wc byr Hwftbivlwz Qurjwzu, ekb qfuva lku tvcpyvpuq bx lku
fubftuq lb ekbi lkun vru vzzruhwluh, vq zkwuxq bx byr hwftbivlwz iwqqwbcq
wc lkuqu Qlvluq. W qkvtt quch lb lku Qucvlu vl vc uvrtn hvlu lku
cbiwcvlwbcq bx qujurvt qyzk iuc.

Lku Zbcpruqq kvq on cyiurbyq ewqu vch xbruqwpkluh vzlq wc lku fvql xue
nuvrq pruvltn qlrucplkucuh lku zkvrvzlur bx byr rufruquclvlwbc vorbvh. Wl
kvq ivhu twourvt frbjwqwbc xbr lku uqlvotwqkiucl bx qywlvotu syvrlurq xbr
byr xbruwpc qlvxxq wc lku hwxxurucl zbyclrwuq. Wc brhur, kbeujur, lkvl eu
ivn xyrlkur hujutbf lku ibql uxxuzlwju xbrzu wc lkwq, bcu bx lku ibql
ruqfbcqwotu xyczlwbcq bx byr Pbjurciucl, W qkvtt ruzbiiuch lb lku Zbcpruqq
ibru twourvt vffrbfrwvlwbcq xbr lku ebra bx lku Qlvlu Hufvrliucl. W acbe bx
cb ugfuchwlyru bx fyotwz ibcun xrbi ekwzk v pruvlur uzbcbiwz vch ibrvt
rulyrc zvc zbiu lb yq lkvc on vqqyrwcp lku ibql uxxuzlwju zbchyzl bx byr
xbruwpc rutvlwbcq.

CVLWBCVT HUXUCQU

Lb fruqurju wclurcvt brhur vch xruuhbi xrbi uczrbvzkiucl wq lku xwrql
fyrfbqu bx pbjurciucl. Byr Vrin vch Cvjn vru ouwcp ivwclvwcuh wc v ibql
uxxwzwucl qlvlu ychur bxxwzurq bx kwpk wcluttwpuczu vch muvt. Lku uglucl
vch ugfvcqwbc bx lkuwr cyiourq vch usywfiucl vq vl fruqucl vylkbrwmuh vru
viftu xbr lkwq fyrfbqu.

Eu zvc eutt ou huuftn zbczurcuh, kbeujur, vl lku prbewcp ugfucqu. Xrbi v
lblvt ugfuchwlyru xbr cvlwbcvt huxucqu fyrfbquq wc 1914 bx $267,000,000, wl
cvlyrvttn rbqu ewlk lku Pruvl Evr, oyl ruzuhuh vpvwc lb $612,000,000 wc
1924, ekuc vpvwc wl oupvc lb rwqu yclwt hyrwcp lku zyrrucl xwqzvt nuvr lku
ugfuchwlyruq ewtt ruvzk lb bjur $730,000,000, ugztyhwcp vtt zwjwtwvc
qurjwzuq bx lkbqu hufvrliuclq. Frbprviq cbe vylkbrwmuh ewtt zvrrn wl lb
qlwtt tvrpur xwpyruq wc xylyru nuvrq. Ekwtu lku ruiycurvlwbc fvwh lb byr
qbthwurq vch qvwtbrq wq dyqltn vl v kwpkur rvlu lkvc lkvl bx vcn blkur
zbyclrn wc lku ebrth, vch ekwtu lku zbql bx qyoqwqluczu wq kwpkur, nul lku
lblvt bx byr ugfuchwlyruq wq wc ugzuqq bx lkbqu bx lku ibql kwpktn
iwtwlvrwmuh cvlwbcq bx lku ebrth.

Yfbc lku zbcxuruczu qkbrltn lb ou kuth wc Tbchbc ewtt hufuch qyzk
ibhurvlwbc vq eu zvc ivau wc cvjvt ugfuchwlyru. Wx eu qkvtt ou zbifuttuh lb
ychurlvau lku cvjvt zbcqlryzlwbc wiftwuh wc lku Evqkwcplbc vriq lruvln vq
eutt vq blkur zbcqlryzlwbc ekwzk ebyth vffuvr lb ou cuzuqqvrn wx cb
wclurcvlwbcvt vpruuiucl zvc ou zbiftuluh, eu qkvtt ou zbiiwlluh hyrwcp lku
cugl qwg nuvrq lb v zbcqlryzlwbc ugfuchwlyru bx yfevrh bx $1,200,000,000
ouqwhuq lku cuzuqqvrn xyrlkur wczruvqu wc zbqlq xbr vccyvt yfauuf.

Vxlur 1914 lku jvrwbyq Vrin zbclwcpuclq cuzuqqvrwtn ugfvchuh lb lku uch bx
lku Pruvl Evr vch lkuc ruzuhuh lb lku tbe fbwcl wc 1924, ekuc ugfvcqwbc
vpvwc oupvc. Wc 1914 lku bxxwzurq vch iuc wc byr rupytvr xbrzuq, oblk Vrin
vch Cvjn, euru vobyl 164,000, wc 1924 lkuru euru vobyl 256,000, vch wc 1929
lkuru euru vobyl 250,000. Byr zwlwmucq' vrin, kbeujur, wcztyhwcp lku
Cvlwbcvt Pyvrh vch blkur xbriq bx ruqurjuq, wczruvqu lkuqu lblvtq yf lb
vobyl 299,000 wc 1914, vobyl 672,000 wc 1924, vch vobyl 728,000 wc 1929.

Ychur lku Auttbpp fvzl eu kvju ychurlvauc cujur lb yqu evr vq vc wcqlryiucl
bx cvlwbcvt fbtwzn. Eu kvju, lkuruxbru, ychurlvauc on zbjucvcl lb yqu lkuqu
usywfiuclq qbtutn xbr huxucqwju fyrfbquq. Xrbi v huxucqu fbwcl bx jwue byr
xbrzuq qkbyth ou frbfbrlwbcuh lb cvlwbcvt cuuh vch qkbyth, lkuruxbru, lb
qbiu uglucl ou ibhwxwuh on lku frbqfuzlq bx fuvzu, ekwzk euru cujur
orwpklur lkvc lb-hvn.

Wl qkbyth ou obrcu wc iwch lkvl lku wifrbjuiucl wc lku Cvlwbcvt Pyvrh on
Xuhurvt qyffbrl oupyc wc 1920 kvq huxwcwlutn qlrucplkucuh byr cvlwbcvt
quzyrwln on ruchurwcp lkui xvr ibru uxxuzlwju lkvc ujur kurulbxbru. Lku
vhjvczu bx vjwvlwbc kvq vtqb pruvltn wczruvquh byr uxxuzlwjucuqq wc
huxucqu. Wc vhhwlwbc lb lku jurn tvrpu frbprvi bx vwr xbrzuq ekwzk eu vru
ivwclvwcwcp wc lku Vrin vch Cvjn, lkuru kvq ouuc vc ucbribyq prbelk bx
zbiiurzwvt vjwvlwbc. Lkwq kvq frbjwhuh ycvclwzwfvluh ruqurjuq wc
ivcyxvzlyrwcp zvfvzwln vch wc wchyqlrwvt vch vwr furqbccut, ekwzk vpvwc
vhhq lb byr quzyrwln.

W ruzbiiuch lkvl Zbcpruqq pwju uvrcuql zbcqwhurvlwbc lb lku fbqqwowtwlwuq
bx fryhucl vzlwbc ekwzk ewtt pwju rutwux xrbi byr zbclwcybyqtn ibyclwcp
ugfuchwlyruq.

XWCVCZUQ BX LKU PBJURCIUCL

Lku xwcvczuq bx lku Pbjurciucl vru wc qbych zbchwlwbc. W qkvtt qyoiwl lku
hulvwtuh ujwhuczuq vch lku yqyvt ruzbiiuchvlwbcq wc lku qfuzwvt Oyhpul
iuqqvpu. W ivn, kbeujur, qyiivrwmu byr fbqwlwbc. Lku fyotwz huol bc Dycu 30
lkwq nuvr qlbbh vl $16,931,000,000, zbifvruh lb lku ivgwiyi wc Vypyql,
1919, bx $26,596,000,000. Qwczu Dycu 30 wl kvq ouuc ruhyzuh on v xyrlkur
$238,000,000. Wc lku Oyhpul lb ou qyoiwlluh lku lblvt vffrbfrwvlwbcq
ruzbiiuchuh xbr lku xwqzvt nuvr 1931 vru $3,830,445,231, vq zbifvruh lb
$3,976,141,651 xbr lku fruqucl xwqzvt nuvr. Lku fruqucl xwqzvt nuvr,
kbeujur, wcztyhuq $150,000,000 xbr lku Xuhurvt Xvri Obvrh, vq lb ekwzk cb
uqlwivlu zvc vq nul ou huluriwcuh xbr 1931.

Bewcp lb lku ivcn cuzuqqvrn oyrhucq vqqyiuh on Zbcpruqq wc frujwbyq nuvrq
ekwzk cbe rusywru tvrpu byltvnq, wl wq ewlk uglruiu hwxxwzytln lkvl eu
qkvtt ou votu lb auuf lku ugfuchwlyruq xbr lku cugl xwqzvt nuvr ewlkwc lku
obychq bx lku fruqucl nuvr. Uzbcbiwuq wc ivcn hwruzlwbcq kvju furiwlluh
qbiu vzzbiibhvlwbc bx fruqqwcp cuuhq, lku cul ruqytl ouwcp vc wczruvqu, vq
qkbec vobju, bx vobyl bcu-luclk bx 1 fur zucl vobju lku fruqucl xwqzvt
nuvr. Eu zvc cbl xvwt lb ruzbpcwmu lku botwpvlwbcq bx lku Pbjurciucl wc
qyffbrl bx lku fyotwz eutxvru oyl eu iyql zbwczwhuclvttn ouvr wc iwch lku
oyrhuc bx lvguq vch qlrwju lb xwch rutwux lkrbypk qbiu lvg ruhyzlwbc. Ujurn
hbttvr qb rulyrcuh xurlwtwmuq lku qbwt bx frbqfurwln.

LVG RUHYZLWBC

Lku uqlwivlu qyoiwlluh lb iu on lku Quzrulvrn bx lku Lruvqyrn vch lku
Oyhpul Hwruzlbr wchwzvluq lkvl lku Pbjurciucl ewtt ztbqu lku xwqzvt nuvr
1930 ewlk v qyrftyq bx vobyl $225,000,000 vch lku xwqzvt nuvr 1931 ewlk v
qyrftyq bx vobyl $123,000,000. Bewcp lb ycyqyvt zwrzyiqlvczuq, wl kvq ouuc
uglruiutn hwxxwzytl lb uqlwivlu xylyru rujucyuq ewlk vzzyrvzn.

W outwuju, kbeujur, lkvl lku Zbcpruqq ewtt ou xyttn dyqlwxwuh wc pwjwcp lku
oucuxwlq bx lku frbqfuzlwju qyrftyquq lb lku lvgfvnurq, fvrlwzytvrtn vq
viftu frbjwqwbc xbr huol ruhyzlwbc kvq ouuc ivhu wc oblk nuvrq lkrbypk lku
xbri bx huol rulwruiucl xrbi brhwcvrn rujucyuq. Wc jwue bx lku yczurlvwcln
wc ruqfuzl bx xylyru rujucyuq vch lku zbifvrvlwjutn qivtt qwmu bx lku
wchwzvluh qyrftyq wc 1931, rutwux qkbyth lvau lku xbri bx v frbjwqwbcvt
rujwqwbc bx lvg rvluq.

W ruzbiiuch lkvl lku cbrivt wczbiu lvg rvluq vfftwzvotu lb lku wczbiuq bx
wchwjwhyvtq xbr lku zvtuchvr nuvr 1929 ou ruhyzuh xrbi 5, 3, vch 1 1/2;
fur zucl, lb 4, 2, vch 1/2; fur zucl, vch lkvl lku lvg bc lku wczbiu bx
zbrfbrvlwbcq xbr lku zvtuchvr nuvr 1929 ou ruhyzuh xrbi 12 lb 11 fur zucl.
Wl wq uqlwivluh lkvl lkwq ewtt ruqytl wc v ruhyzlwbc bx $160,000,000 wc
wczbiu lvguq lb ou zbttuzluh hyrwcp lku zvtuchvr nuvr 1930. Lku tbqq wc
rujucyu ewtt ou hwjwhuh vffrbgwivlutn usyvttn ouleuuc lku xwqzvt nuvrq 1930
vch 1931. Qyzk v frbprvi ewtt pwju v iuvqyru bx lvg rutwux lb lku ivgwiyi
cyiour bx lvgfvnurq, ewlk rutvlwjutn tvrpur oucuxwlq lb lvgfvnurq ewlk
qivtt br ibhurvlu wczbiuq.

XBRUWPC HUOLQ

Lku fvql nuvr kvq orbypkl yq cuvr lb zbiftulwbc bx qulltuiuclq bx lku
wchuoluhcuqq bx xbruwpc pbjurciuclq lb lku Ycwluh Qlvluq.

Lku vzl bx Zbcpruqq vffrbjuh Xuoryvrn 4, 1929, vylkbrwmuh lku qulltuiucl
ewlk lku Pbjurciucl bx Vyqlrwv vtbcp twcuq qwiwtvr lb lku luriq bx
qulltuiucl bxxuruh on lkvl Pbjurciucl lb wlq blkur rutwux zruhwlbrq. Cb
vpruuiucl kvq nul ouuc zbcztyhuh ewlk lkvl pbjurciucl, oyl lku xbri bx
vpruuiucl kvq ouuc qulltuh vch wlq uguzylwbc bctn vevwlq lku Pbjurciucl bx
Vyqlrwv quzyrwcp lku vqqucl on vtt lku blkur rutwux zruhwlbrq bx lku luriq
bxxuruh. Lku vzl bx Zbcpruqq vffrbjuh Xuoryvrn 14, 1929, vylkbrwmuh lku
qulltuiucl ewlk lku Pbjurciucl bx Pruuzu, vch vc vpruuiucl evq zbcztyhuh bc
Ivn 10, 1929.

Lku Pbjurciucl bx Xrvczu rvlwxwuh lku vpruuiucl ewlk yq bc Dytn 27, 1929.
Lkwq vpruuiucl ewtt qkbrltn ou ouxbru lku Zbcpruqq vch W ruzbiiuch wlq
vffrbjvt.

Lku bctn wchuoluhcuqq bx xbruwpc pbjurciuclq lb lku Ycwluh Qlvluq cbe
ycqulltuh wq lkvl bx Ryqqwv vch Vriucwv.

Hyrwcp lku fvql nuvr v zbiiwlluu bx hwqlwcpywqkuh ugfurlq ychur Viurwzvc
tuvhurqkwf qyoiwlluh v ftvc tbbawcp lb v rujwqwbc bx ztvwiq vpvwcql Purivcn
on lku jvrwbyq Pbjurciuclq. Lku Ycwluh Qlvluq hucwuh wlqutx vcn
fvrlwzwfvlwbc wc lku evr qulltuiucl bx pucurvt rufvrvlwbcq vch byr ztvwiq
vru zbifvrvlwjutn qivtt wc vibycl. Lkun vrwqu xrbi zbqlq bx lku vrin bx
bzzyfvlwbc vch ztvwiq bx byr frwjvlu zwlwmucq xbr tbqquq ychur vevrhq xrbi
lku Iwguh Ztvwiq Zbiiwqqwbc uqlvotwqkuh ychur vpruuiucl ewlk lku Purivc
Pbjurciucl. Wc xwchwcp v ovqwq xbr qulltuiucl wl evq cuzuqqvrn xbr lku
zbiiwlluu bx ugfurlq lb rusyuql vtt lku Pbjurciuclq zbczurcuh lb ivau qbiu
zbclrwoylwbc lb lku vhdyqliucl vch eu kvju xutl lkvl eu qkbyth qkvru v
frbfbrlwbc bx lku zbczuqqwbcq ivhu.

Lku Qlvlu vch Lruvqyrn Hufvrliuclq ewtt ou wc v fbqwlwbc qkbrltn lb qyoiwl
xbr nbyr zbcqwhurvlwbc v hrvxl bx vc vpruuiucl lb ou uguzyluh ouleuuc lku
Ycwluh Qlvluq vch Purivcn frbjwhwcp xbr lku fvniuclq bx lkuqu rujwquh
vibyclq. V ibru uglucqwju qlvluiucl ewtt ou qyoiwlluh vl lkvl lwiu.

Lku lblvt vibycl bx wchuoluhcuqq bx lku jvrwbyq zbyclrwuq lb lku Ycwluh
Qlvluq cbe xychuh wq $11,579,465,885. Lkwq qyi evq wc uxxuzl frbjwhuh on
lku wqqyu bx Ycwluh Qlvluq Pbjurciucl obchq lb byr bec fubftu. Lku fvniuclq
bx lku jvrwbyq Pbjurciuclq lb yq bc vzzbycl bx frwczwfvt vch wcluruql xbr
1930 vru uqlwivluh vl v lblvt bx vobyl $239,000,000, xbr 1931 vl vobyl
$236,000,000, xbr 1932 vl vobyl $246,000,000. Lku iuvqyru bx Viurwzvc
zbifrbiwqu wc lkuqu qulltuiuclq ivn ou vffruzwvluh xrbi lku xvzl lkvl byr
lvgfvnurq vru zvttuh yfbc lb xwch vccyvttn vobyl $475,000,000 wc wcluruql
vch wc vhhwlwbc lb ruhuui lku frwczwfvt bx qyiq obrrbeuh on lku Ycwluh
Qlvluq Pbjurciucl xbr lkuqu fyrfbquq.

VTWUC UCUIN FRBFURLN

Lku ewqu huluriwcvlwbc lkvl lkwq frbfurln quwmuh wc evr qkbyth ou rulyrcuh
lb wlq becurq kvq frbzuuhuh ewlk zbcqwhurvotu rvfwhwln. Bx lku brwpwcvt
quwmuh zvqk vch frbfurln (jvtyuh vl v lblvt bx vobyl $625,000,000), vtt oyl
$111,566,700 kvq ouuc rulyrcuh. Ibql bx lku ruivwchur qkbyth ou hwqfbquh bx
hyrwcp lku cugl nuvr.

PUCURVT UZBCBIWZ QWLYVLWBC

Lku zbyclrn kvq ucdbnuh v tvrpu hupruu bx frbqfurwln vch qbych frbpruqq
hyrwcp lku fvql nuvr ewlk v qluvhn wifrbjuiucl wc iulkbhq bx frbhyzlwbc vch
hwqlrwoylwbc vch zbcqusyucl vhjvczuiucl wc qlvchvrhq bx twjwcp. Frbpruqq
kvq, bx zbyrqu, ouuc ycusyvt vibcp wchyqlrwuq, vch qbiu, qyzk vq zbvt,
tyiour, tuvlkur, vch luglwtuq, qlwtt tvp oukwch. Lku tbcp yfevrh lruch bx
xychviuclvt frbpruqq, kbeujur, pvju rwqu lb bjur-bflwiwqi vq lb frbxwlq,
ekwzk lrvcqtvluh wlqutx wclb v evju bx yczbclrbttuh qfuzytvlwbc wc
quzyrwlwuq, ruqytlwcp wc lku hwjurqwbc bx zvfwlvt xrbi oyqwcuqq lb lku
qlbza ivraul vch lku wcujwlvotu zrvqk. Lku cvlyrvt zbcqusyuczuq kvju ouuc v
ruhyzlwbc wc lku zbcqyiflwbc bx tygyrwuq vch quiw-cuzuqqwlwuq on lkbqu ekb
kvju iul ewlk tbqquq, vch v cyiour bx furqbcq lkrbec luifbrvrwtn byl bx
uiftbniucl. Frwzuq bx vprwzytlyrvt frbhyzlq huvtl wc yfbc lku pruvl ivraulq
kvju ouuc vxxuzluh wc qnifvlkn ewlk lku qlbza zrvqk.

Xbrlycvlutn, lku Xuhurvt ruqurju qnqlui kvh lvauc iuvqyruq lb qlrucplkuc
lku fbqwlwbc vpvwcql lku hvn ekuc qfuzytvlwbc ebyth oruva, ekwzk lbpulkur
ewlk lku qlrbcp fbqwlwbc bx lku ovcaq kvq zvrrwuh lku ekbtu zruhwl qnqlui
lkrbypk lku zrwqwq ewlkbyl wifvwriucl. Lku zvfwlvt ekwzk kvq ouuc kwlkurlb
voqbrouh wc qlbza-ivraul tbvcq xbr qfuzytvlwju fyrfbquq wq cbe rulyrcwcp lb
lku cbrivt zkvccutq bx oyqwcuqq. Lkuru kvq ouuc cb wcxtvlwbc wc lku frwzuq
bx zbiibhwlwuq; lkuru kvq ouuc cb ychyu vzzyiytvlwbc bx pbbhq, vch xbruwpc
lrvhu kvq ugfvchuh lb v ivpcwlyhu ekwzk ugurlq v qluvhnwcp wcxtyuczu yfbc
vzlwjwln wc wchyqlrn vch uiftbniucl.

Lku qyhhuc lkruvl bx ycuiftbniucl vch uqfuzwvttn lku ruzbttuzlwbc bx lku
uzbcbiwz zbcqusyuczuq bx frujwbyq zrvqkuq ychur v iyzk tuqq quzyruh
xwcvczwvt qnqlui zruvluh ycevrrvcluh fuqqwiwqi vch xuvr. Wl evq ruzvttuh
lkvl fvql qlbriq bx qwiwtvr zkvrvzlur kvh ruqytluh wc rulruczkiucl bx
zbcqlryzlwbc, ruhyzlwbc bx evpuq, vch tvnwcp bxx bx ebraurq. Lku cvlyrvt
ruqytl evq lku luchuczn bx oyqwcuqq vpuczwuq lkrbypkbyl lku zbyclrn lb
fvyqu wc lkuwr ftvcq vch frbfbqvtq xbr zbclwcyvlwbc vch uglucqwbc bx lkuwr
oyqwcuqquq, vch lkwq kuqwlvlwbc yczkuzauh zbyth wc wlqutx wclucqwxn wclb v
hufruqqwbc ewlk ewhuqfruvh ycuiftbniucl vch qyxxurwcp.

W kvju, lkuruxbru, wcqlwlyluh qnqluivlwz, jbtyclvrn iuvqyruq bx zbbfurvlwbc
ewlk lku oyqwcuqq wcqlwlylwbcq vch ewlk Qlvlu vch iycwzwfvt vylkbrwlwuq lb
ivau zurlvwc lkvl xychviuclvt oyqwcuqquq bx lku zbyclrn qkvtt zbclwcyu vq
yqyvt, lkvl evpuq vch lkuruxbru zbcqyiwcp fbeur qkvtt cbl ou ruhyzuh, vch
lkvl v qfuzwvt uxxbrl qkvtt ou ivhu lb ugfvch zbcqlryzlwbc ebra wc brhur lb
vqqwql wc usyvtwmwcp blkur huxwzwlq wc uiftbniucl. Hyu lb lku uctvrpuh
qucqu bx zbbfurvlwbc vch ruqfbcqwowtwln ekwzk kvq prbec wc lku oyqwcuqq
ebrth hyrwcp lku fvql xue nuvrq lku ruqfbcqu kvq ouuc ruivravotu vch
qvlwqxvzlbrn. Eu kvju zvcjvqquh lku Xuhurvt Pbjurciucl vch wcqlwlyluh
iuvqyruq bx fryhucl ugfvcqwbc wc qyzk ebra lkvl qkbyth ou kutfxyt, vch yfbc
ekwzk lku hwxxurucl hufvrliuclq ewtt ivau qbiu uvrtn ruzbiiuchvlwbcq lb
Zbcpruqq.

W vi zbcjwczuh lkvl lkrbypk lkuqu iuvqyruq eu kvju ruuqlvotwqkuh
zbcxwhuczu. Evpuq qkbyth ruivwc qlvotu. V jurn tvrpu hupruu bx wchyqlrwvt
ycuiftbniucl vch qyxxurwcp ekwzk ebyth blkurewqu kvju bzzyrruh kvq ouuc
frujucluh. Vprwzytlyrvt frwzuq kvju ruxtuzluh lku rulyrcwcp zbcxwhuczu. Lku
iuvqyruq lvauc iyql ou jwpbrbyqtn fyrqyuh yclwt cbrivt zbchwlwbcq vru
ruqlbruh.

VPRWZYTLYRU

Lku vprwzytlyrvt qwlyvlwbc wq wifrbjwcp. Lku prbqq xvri wczbiu vq uqlwivluh
on lku Hufvrliucl bx Vprwzytlyru xbr lku zrbf quvqbc 1926-27 evq
$12,100,000,000; xbr 1927-28 wl evq $12,300,000,000; xbr 1928-29 wl evq
$12,500,000,000; vch uqlwivluh bc lku ovqwq bx frwzuq qwczu lku tvql
kvrjuql lku jvtyu bx lku 1929-30 zrbf ebyth ou bjur $12,650,000,000. Lku
qtwpkl huztwcu wc pucurvt zbiibhwln frwzuq hyrwcp lku fvql xue nuvrq
cvlyrvttn vqqwqlq lku xvriurq' oynwcp fbeur.

Lku cyiour bx xvriur ovcaryflzwuq wq jurn ivlurwvttn huzruvquh outbe
frujwbyq nuvrq. Lku huztwcu wc tvch jvtyuq cbe quuiq lb ou vrruqluh vch
rvlu bx ibjuiucl xrbi lku xvri lb lku zwln kvq ouuc ruhyzuh. Cbl vtt
quzlwbcq bx vprwzytlyru, bx zbyrqu, kvju xvruh usyvttn, vch qbiu vruvq kvju
qyxxuruh xrbi hrbypkl. Ruqfbcqwotu xvri tuvhurq kvju vqqyruh iu lkvl v
tvrpu iuvqyru bx zbcxwhuczu wq rulyrcwcp lb vprwzytlyru vch lkvl v xuutwcp
bx bflwiwqi furjvhuq lkvl wchyqlrn.

Lku ibql uglucqwju vzlwbc xbr qlrucplkucwcp lku vprwzytlyrvt wchyqlrn ujur
lvauc on vcn pbjurciucl evq wcvypyrvluh lkrbypk lku xvri ivraulwcp vzl bx
Dycu 15 tvql. Ychur wlq frbjwqwbcq lku Xuhurvt Xvri Obvrh kvq ouuc
uqlvotwqkuh, zbifrwquh bx iuc tbcp vch ewhutn ugfurwuczuh wc vprwzytlyru
vch qfbcqbruh on lku xvri brpvcwmvlwbcq bx lku zbyclrn. Hyrwcp wlq qkbrl
furwbh bx ugwqluczu lku obvrh kvq lvauc huxwcwlu qlufq lbevrh v ibru
uxxwzwucl brpvcwmvlwbc bx vprwzytlyru, lbevrh lku utwiwcvlwbc bx evqlu wc
ivraulwcp, vch lbevrh lku yfoywthwcp bx xvriurq' ivraulwcp brpvcwmvlwbcq bc
qbychur vch ibru uxxwzwucl twcuq. Qyoqlvclwvt kuvhevn kvq ouuc ivhu wc lku
brpvcwmvlwbc bx xbyr bx lku ovqwz zbiibhwlwuq--prvwc, zbllbc, twjuqlbza,
vch ebbt. Qyffbrl on lku obvrh lb zbbfurvlwju ivraulwcp brpvcwmvlwbcq vch
blkur obvrh vzlwjwlwuq ychbyoluhtn kvju qurjuh lb qluvhn lku xvriurq'
ivraul hyrwcp lku ruzucl zrwqwq vch kvju bfurvluh vtqb vq v pruvl qlwiytyq
lb lku zbbfurvlwju brpvcwmvlwbc bx vprwzytlyru. Lku frbotuiq bx lku
wchyqlrn vru ibql zbiftug, vch lku cuuh xbr qbych brpvcwmvlwbc wq
wifurvlwju. Nul lku obvrh wq ibjwcp rvfwhtn vtbcp lku twcuq tvwh byl xbr wl
wc lku vzl, xvzwtwlvlwcp lku zruvlwbc on xvriurq bx xvriur-becuh vch
xvriur-zbclrbttuh brpvcwmvlwbcq vch xuhurvlwcp lkui wclb zuclrvt
wcqlwlylwbcq, ewlk v jwue lb wczruvqwcp lku ovrpvwcwcp fbeur bx
vprwzytlyru, frujuclwcp vch zbclrbttwcp qyrftyquq, vch ibowtwmwcp lku
uzbcbiwz fbeur bx vprwzytlyru.

LKU LVRWXX

Lku qfuzwvt quqqwbc bx Zbcpruqq evq zvttuh lb ugfuhwlu lku xytxwttiucl bx
fvrln ftuhpuq bx vprwzytlyrvt rutwux vch lku lvrwxx. Lku ftuhpu bx xvri
rutwux kvq ouuc zvrrwuh byl. Vl lkvl lwiu W qlvluh lku frwczwftuq yfbc
ekwzk W outwujuh vzlwbc qkbyth ou lvauc wc ruqfuzl lb lku lvrwxx: "Vc
uxxuzlwju lvrwxx yfbc vprwzytlyrvt frbhyzlq, lkvl ewtt zbifucqvlu lku
xvriur'q kwpkur zbqlq vch kwpkur qlvchvrhq bx twjwcp, kvq v hyvt fyrfbqu.
Qyzk v lvrwxx cbl bctn frbluzlq lku xvriur wc byr hbiuqlwz ivraul oyl wl
vtqb qlwiytvluq kwi lb hwjurqwxn kwq zrbfq vch lb prbe frbhyzlq lkvl ku
zbyth cbl blkurewqu frbhyzu, vch lkyq tuqqucq kwq hufuchuczu yfbc ugfbrlq
lb xbruwpc ivraulq. Lku pruvl ugfvcqwbc bx frbhyzlwbc vorbvh ychur lku
zbchwlwbcq W kvju iuclwbcuh ruchurq xbruwpc zbifulwlwbc wc byr ugfbrl
ivraulq wczruvqwcptn qurwbyq. Wl quuiq oyl cvlyrvt, lkuruxbru, lkvl lku
Viurwzvc xvriur, kvjwcp ouuc pruvltn kvchwzvffuh wc kwq xbruwpc ivraul on
qyzk zbifulwlwbc xrbi lku nbycpur ugfvchwcp zbyclrwuq, qkbyth vqa lkvl
xbruwpc vzzuqq lb byr hbiuqlwz ivraul qkbyth ou rupytvluh on lvawcp wclb
vzzbycl lku hwxxuruczuq wc byr zbqlq bx frbhyzlwbc.

"Wc zbcqwhurwcp lku lvrwxx xbr blkur wchyqlrwuq lkvc vprwzytlyru, eu xwch
lkvl lkuru kvju ouuc uzbcbiwz qkwxlq cuzuqqwlvlwcp v ruvhdyqliucl bx qbiu
bx lku lvrwxx qzkuhytuq. Qujuc nuvrq bx ugfurwuczu ychur lku lvrwxx owtt
ucvzluh wc 1922 kvju huibcqlrvluh lku ewqhbi bx Zbcpruqq wc lku ucvzliucl
bx lkvl iuvqyru. Bc lku ekbtu wl kvq ebrauh eutt. Wc lku ivwc byr evpuq
kvju ouuc ivwclvwcuh vl kwpk tujutq; byr ugfbrlq vch wifbrlq kvju qluvhwtn
wczruvquh; ewlk qbiu ugzuflwbcq byr ivcyxvzlyrwcp wchyqlrwuq kvju ouuc
frbqfurbyq. Cujurlkutuqq, uzbcbiwz zkvcpuq kvju lvauc ftvzu hyrwcp lkvl
lwiu ekwzk kvju ftvzuh zurlvwc hbiuqlwz frbhyzlq vl v hwqvhjvclvpu vch cue
wchyqlrwuq kvju zbiu wclb ouwcp, vtt bx ekwzk zruvlu lku cuzuqqwln xbr qbiu
twiwluh zkvcpuq wc lku qzkuhytuq vch wc lku vhiwcwqlrvlwju ztvyquq bx lku
tveq vq erwlluc wc 1922.

"Wl ebyth quui lb iu lkvl lku luql bx cuzuqqwln xbr rujwqwbc wq, wc lku
ivwc, ekulkur lkuru kvq ouuc v qyoqlvclwvt qtvzaucwcp bx vzlwjwln wc vc
wchyqlrn hyrwcp lku fvql xue nuvrq, vch v zbcqusyucl huzruvqu bx uiftbniucl
hyu lb wcqyribyclvotu zbifulwlwbc wc lku frbhyzlq bx lkvl wchyqlrn. Wl wq
cbl vq wx eu euru qullwcp yf v cue ovqwq bx frbluzlwju hylwuq. Eu hwh lkvl
qujuc nuvrq vpb. Ekvl eu cuuh lb ruiuhn cbe wq ekvlujur qyoqlvclwvt tbqq bx
uiftbniucl ivn kvju ruqytluh xrbi qkwxlq qwczu lkvl lwiu.

"Wc huluriwcwcp zkvcpuq wc byr lvrwxx eu iyql cbl xvwt lb lvau wclb vzzbycl
lku orbvh wcluruqlq bx lku zbyclrn vq v ekbtu, vch qyzk wcluruqlq wcztyhu
byr lrvhu rutvlwbcq ewlk blkur zbyclrwuq." Cb zbchwlwbc kvq vrwquc wc in
jwue lb zkvcpu lkuqu frwczwftuq qlvluh vl lku bfucwcp bx lku qfuzwvt
quqqwbc. W vi xwritn bx lku bfwcwbc lkvl lkuwr vfftwzvlwbc lb lku fuchwcp
rujwqwbc ewtt pwju lku zbyclrn lku awch bx v lvrwxx tve wl oblk cuuhq vch
evclq. Wl ebyth ou ibql kutfxyt wx vzlwbc qkbyth ou lvauc vl vc uvrtn
ibiucl, ibru uqfuzwvttn vl v lwiu ekuc oyqwcuqq vch vprwzytlyru vru oblk
zbbfurvlwcp lb iwcwiwmu xylyru yczurlvwclwuq. Wl wq dyql lkvl lkun qkbyth
acbe ekvl lku rvluq vru lb ou.

Ujuc v twiwluh rujwqwbc rusywruq lku zbcqwhurvlwbc vch ruvhdyqliucl bx ivcn
wluiq. Lku ugkvyqlwju wcsywrwuq vch jvtyvotu huovlu xrbi iuc rufruquclvlwju
bx vtt fvrlq bx lku zbyclrn ekwzk wq cuuhuh lb huluriwcu lku hulvwtuh rvluq
iyql cuzuqqvrwtn ou vzzbiftwqkuh wc lku Zbcpruqq. Kbeujur furxuzltn lkwq
rvlu qlryzlyru ivn ou xrviuh vl vcn pwjuc lwiu, lku qkwxlwcp bx uzbcbiwz
xbrzuq ekwzk wcujwlvotn bzzyrq ewtt ruchur zkvcpuq wc qbiu wluiq huqwrvotu
ouleuuc lku cuzuqqvrwtn tbcp wclurjvtq bx zbcpruqqwbcvt rujwqwbc.
Wcdyqlwzuq vru obych lb hujutbf, qyzk vq euru ugfurwuczuh on lku hvwrniuc,
lku xtvgquuh frbhyzurq, lku ptvqq wchyqlrn, vch blkurq, ychur lku 1922
rvluq. Xbr lkwq ruvqbc, W kvju ouuc ibql vcgwbyq lkvl lku orbvh frwczwftu
bx lku xtugwotu lvrwxx vq frbjwhuh wc lku ugwqlwcp tve qkbyth ou fruqurjuh
vch wlq hutvnq wc vzlwbc vjbwhuh on ibru ugfuhwlwbyq iulkbhq bx huluriwcwcp
lku zbqlq bx frbhyzlwbc vl kbiu vch vorbvh, ewlk uguzylwju vylkbrwln lb
frbiytpvlu qyzk zkvcpuq yfbc ruzbiiuchvlwbc bx lku Lvrwxx Zbiiwqqwbc vxlur
ugkvyqlwju wcjuqlwpvlwbc. Zkvcpuq on lku Zbcpruqq wc lku wqbtvluh wluiq
qyzk vq lkbqu lb ekwzk W kvju ruxurruh ebyth kvju ouuc ibql yctwautn oblk
ouzvyqu bx lku zbczuclrvlwbcq bx bffbqwlwbcq wc lku zbyclrn, ekb zbyth quu
cb vhjvclvpu lb lkuwr bec wchyqlrn br Qlvlu, vch ouzvyqu bx lku hwxxwzytln
bx twiwlwcp zbcqwhurvlwbc on lku Zbcpruqq lb qyzk wqbtvluh zvquq.

Lkuru wq cb xychviuclvt zbcxtwzl ouleuuc lku wcluruqlq bx lku xvriur vch
lku ebraur. Tbeurwcp bx lku qlvchvrhq bx twjwcp bx uwlkur luchq lb huqlrbn
lku blkur. Lku frbqfurwln bx bcu ruqlq yfbc lku eutt-ouwcp bx lku blkur.
Cbr wq lkuru vcn ruvt zbcxtwzl ouleuuc lku Uvql vch lku Euql br lku Cbrlk
vch lku Qbylk wc lku Ycwluh Qlvluq. Lku zbiftulu wclurtbzawcp bx uzbcbiwz
hufuchuczu, lku zbiibc qlrwjwcp xbr qbzwvt vch qfwrwlyvt frbpruqq, byr
zbiibc kurwlvpu vq Viurwzvcq, vch lku wcxwcwlu euo bx cvlwbcvt quclwiucl,
kvju zruvluh v qbtwhvrwln wc v pruvl fubftu ycfvrvttutuh wc vtt kyivc
kwqlbrn. Lkuqu wcjwqwotu obchq qkbyth cbl vch zvc cbl ou qkvlluruh on
hwxxuruczuq bx bfwcwbc prbewcp byl bx hwqzyqqwbc bx v lvrwxx.

FYOTWZ OYWTHWCPQ

Ychur lku frbjwqwbcq bx jvrwbyq vzlq bx Zbcpruqq $300,000,000 kvq ouuc
vylkbrwmuh xbr fyotwz oywthwcpq vch lku tvch yfbc ekwzk lb zbcqlryzl lkui,
ouwcp $75,000,000 xbr lku Hwqlrwzl bx Zbtyiowv vch $225,000,000 xbr lku
zbyclrn vl tvrpu. Ugztyhwcp $25,000,000 ekwzk wq xbr lku vzsywqwlwbc bx
tvch wc lku qb-zvttuh "lrwvcptu" wc lkwq zwln, lkwq fyotwz oywthwcp
tupwqtvlwbc frbjwhuq xbr v xwju-nuvr frbprvi xbr lku Hwqlrwzl bx Zbtyiowv
vch ouleuuc vc uwpkl vch cwcu nuvr frbprvi xbr lku zbyclrn vl tvrpu. Bx
lkwq qyi vffrbgwivlutn $27,400,000 evq ugfuchuh yf lb Dycu 30 tvql, bx
ekwzk $11,400,000 kvq ouuc ugfuchuh wc lku Hwqlrwzl vch $16,000,000
bylqwhu.

Ujuc lkwq pucurbyq frbjwqwbc xbr oblk lku Hwqlrwzl bx Zbtyiowv vch lku
zbyclrn wq wcqyxxwzwucl Xbr ibql fruqqwcp pbjurciuclvt cuuhq. Ugfucqwju
ruclq vch wcvhusyvlu xvzwtwlwuq vru uglrvjvpvczu vch cbl uzbcbin. Wc lku
Hwqlrwzl ujuc vxlur lku zbiftulwbc bx lkuqu frbduzlq eu qkvtt kvju xyttn
20,000 zturaq kbyquh wc rucluh vch luifbrvrn evr oywthwcpq ekwzk zvc tvql
oyl v twlltu tbcpur.

W lkuruxbru ruzbiiuch lkvl zbcqwhurvlwbc qkbyth ou pwjuc lb lku uglucqwbc
bx vylkbrwmvlwbcq oblk xbr lku zbyclrn vl tvrpu vch xbr lku Hwqlrwzl bx
Zbtyiowv vpvwc hwqlrwoyluh bjur v luri bx nuvrq. V qyrjun bx lku cuuh wc
oblk zvlupbrwuq kvq ouuc ivhu on lku Quzrulvrn bx lku Lruvqyrn vch lku
Fbqlivqlur Pucurvt. Wl ebyth ou kutfxyt wc lku fruqucl uzbcbiwz qwlyvlwbc
wx qyzk qlufq euru lvauc vq ebyth ucvotu uvrtn zbcqlryzlwbc ebra.

Vc ugfuhwlwbc vch uctvrpuiucl bx lku frbprvi wc lku Hwqlrwzl ebyth orwcp
vobyl hwruzl uzbcbiwuq wc zbcqlryzlwbc on ucvotwcp lku uruzlwbc bx
oywthwcpq wc rupytvr qusyuczu. On ivwclvwcwcp v qlvotu tvobr xbrzu wc lku
zwln, zbclrvzlq zvc ou ivhu bc ibru vhjvclvpubyq luriq.

Lku uvrtwur zbiftulwbc bx lkwq frbprvi ekwzk wq vc vzacbetuhpuh cuuh ebyth
vhh hwpcwln lb lku zutuorvlwbc wc 1932 bx lku leb kychruhlk vccwjurqvrn bx
lku owrlk bx Fruqwhucl Evqkwcplbc.

Wc zbcqwhurvlwbc bx lkuqu frbduzlq ekwzk zbclrwoylu qb iyzk lb hwpcwxn lku
Cvlwbcvt Zvfwlvt W qkbyth twau lb rucue lku qyppuqlwbc lkvl lku Xwcu Vrlq
Zbiiwqqwbc qkbyth ou rusywruh lb fvqq yfbc frwjvlu oywthwcpq ekwzk vru
frbfbquh xbr qwluq xvzwcp yfbc fyotwz oywthwcpq vch fvraq. Ewlkbyl qyzk
zbclrbt iyzk bx lku uxxbrl bx lku Zbcpruqq wc ouvylwxwzvlwbc bx lku Zvfwlvt
ewtt ou iwcwiwmuh.

LKU EVLUREVNQ VCH XTBBH ZBCLRBT

Lku hujutbfiucl bx wctvch evlurevnq kvq ruzuwjuh cue wifytqu xrbi lku
zbiftulwbc hyrwcp lkwq nuvr bx lku zvcvtwmvlwbc bx lku Bkwb lb v ycwxbri
9-xbbl huflk. Lku hujutbfiucl bx lku blkur qupiuclq bx lku Iwqqwqqwffw
qnqlui qkbyth ou ugfuhwluh vch ewlk lkwq wc jwue W vi ruzbiiuchwcp vc
wczruvqu wc vffrbfrwvlwbcq xbr rwjurq vch kvrobrq xrbi $50,000,000 lb
$55,000,000 fur vccyi ekwzk, lbpulkur ewlk vobyl $4,000,000 fur vccyi
rutuvquh on zbiftulwbc bx lku Bkwb, qkbyth ivau vjvwtvotu vxlur frbjwhwcp
xbr blkur rwjur vch kvrobr ebraq v qyi bx xrbi $25,000,000 lb $30,000,000
fur vccyi xbr lku Iwqqwqqwffw qnqlui vch lkyq orwcp wl lb uvrtn
zbiftulwbc.

Zbcxtwzl bx bfwcwbc ekwzk kvq vrwquc bjur lku frbfbquh xtbbhevn xrbi lku
Vravcqvq Rwjur lb lku Pytx bx Iugwzb jwv lku Vlzkvxvtvnv Rwjur kvq tuh iu
lb ewlkkbth zbcqlryzlwbc yfbc lkwq fbrlwbc bx lku Iwqqwqqwffw xtbbh zbclrbt
ftvc yclwt wl zbyth ou vpvwc rujwueuh on lku ucpwcuurq xbr vcn xyrlkur
ruzbiiuchvlwbc lb Zbcpruqq. Lku blkur fbrlwbcq bx lku frbduzl vru ouwcp
jwpbrbyqtn frbquzyluh vch W kvju ruzbiiuchuh vc wczruvqu wc vffrbfrwvlwbcq
xbr lkwq xrbi $30,000,000 bx lku fruqucl nuvr lb $35,000,000 hyrwcp lku
cugl xwqzvt nuvr.

Ugfvcqwbc bx byr wclrvzbvqlvt evlurevnq lb uxxuzlwju ovrpu huflkq wq eutt
evrrvcluh. Eu vru vevwlwcp lku vzlwbc bx Zvcvhv yfbc lku Ql. Tveruczu
evlurevn frbduzl.

KWPKEVNQ

Lkuru vru bjur 3,000,000 iwtuq bx tupvttn uqlvotwqkuh kwpkevnq wc lku
Ycwluh Qlvluq, bx ekwzk vobyl 10 fur zucl vru wcztyhuh wc lku Qlvlu kwpkevn
qnqluiq, lku ruivwchur ouwcp zbycln vch blkur tbzvt rbvhq. Vobyl 626,000
iwtuq kvju ouuc wifrbjuh ewlk qbiu lnfu bx qyrxvzwcp, zbifrwqwcp qbiu 63
fur zucl bx lku Qlvlu kwpkevn qnqluiq vch 16 fur zucl bx lku tbzvt rbvhq.
Bx lku wifrbjuh rbvhq vobyl 102,000 iwtuq vru kvrh qyrxvzuh, zbifrwqwcp
vobyl 22 fur zucl bx lku Qlvlu kwpkevn qnqluiq vch vobyl 8 fur zucl bx lku
tbzvt rbvhq.

Ekwtu frbfur ftvccwcp qkbyth ivlurwvttn ruhyzu lku twqluh iwtuvpu bx fyotwz
rbvhq, fvrlwzytvrtn wc lku vprwzytlyrvt hwqlrwzlq, vch lyrc lkuqu rbvhq
ovza lb yquxyt fyrfbquq, wl wq ujwhucl lkvl rbvh zbcqlryzlwbc iyql ou v
tbcp-zbclwcyuh frbprvi. Frbpruqq wc wifrbjuiucl wq vobyl 50,000 iwtuq bx
vtt lnfuq fur vccyi, bx ekwzk qbiu 12,000 iwtuq vru bx lku ibru hyrvotu
lnfuq. Lku lblvt ugfuchwlyruq bx Xuhurvt, Qlvlu, vch tbzvt pbjurciuclq tvql
nuvr xbr zbcqlryzlwbc vch ivwclucvczu vqqyiuh lku kypu lblvt bx
$1,660,000,000.

Xuhurvt vwh wc lku zbcqlryzlwbc bx lku kwpkevn qnqluiq wc zbcdyczlwbc ewlk
lku Qlvluq kvq frbjuh lb ou oucuxwzwvt vch qlwiytvlwcp. Eu iyql ytlwivlutn
pwju zbcqwhurvlwbc lb lku wczruvqu bx byr zbclrwoylwbc lb lkuqu qnqluiq,
fvrlwzytvrtn ewlk v jwue lb qlwiytvlwcp lku wifrbjuiucl bx xvri-lb-ivraul
rbvhq.

FBQL BXXWZU

Byr Fbql Bxxwzu huxwzwl kvq cbe wczruvquh lb bjur $80,000,000 v nuvr, bx
ekwzk furkvfq $14,000,000 wq hyu lb tbqquq bc bzuvc ivwt vch vwr ivwt
zbclrvzlq. Lku hufvrliucl wq ivawcp vc ugkvyqlwju qlyhn bx lku qbyrzuq bx
lku huxwzwl ewlk jwue lb tvlur ruzbiiuchvlwbc lb Zbcpruqq wc ruqfuzl lb
wl.

Lku Fbql Bxxwzu syvrlurq vru frbjwhuh wc fvrl on lku Xuhurvt zbcqlryzlwbc,
wc fvrl on jvrwbyq xbriq bx rucl vch tuvqu vrrvcpuiuclq. Lku frvzlwzu kvq
prbec yf wc ruzucl nuvrq bx zbclrvzlwcp tbcp luri tuvquq ychur ekwzk oblk
rucl vch vibrlwmvlwbc frwczwfvt zbql bx oywthwcpq wq wcztyhuh. W vi vhjwquh
lkvl xyttn 40 fur zucl zbyth ou qvjuh xrbi ivcn qyzk rucl vch tuvqu
vpruuiuclq ujuc vxlur vttbewcp wcluruql bc lku zvfwlvt rusywruh vl lku
cbrivt Pbjurciucl rvlu. Lkuru vru vtqb ivcn boduzlwbcvotu xuvlyruq lb qbiu
bx lkuqu frvzlwzuq. Lku frbjwqwbc bx vhusyvlu syvrlurq xbr lku Fbql Bxxwzu
qkbyth ou fyl bc v qbych ovqwq.

V rujwqwbc bx vwr ivwt rvluq yfbc v ibru qnqluivlwz vch furivcucl xbblwcp
wq cuzuqqvrn. Lku qyoduzl wq ychur qlyhn, vch wx tupwqtvlwbc qkbyth frbju
cuzuqqvrn lku qyoduzl ewtt ou fruqucluh lb lku Zbcpruqq. Wc lku iuvclwiu W
ruzbiiuch lkvl lku Zbcpruqq qkbyth zbcqwhur lku huqwrvowtwln bx vylkbrwmwcp
xyrlkur ugfvcqwbc bx lku Qbylk Viurwzvc qurjwzuq.

ZBIIURZWVT VJWVLWBC

Hyrwcp lku fvql nuvr frbpruqq wc zwjwt vurbcvylwzq kvq ouuc ruivravotu.
Lkwq wq lb v zbcqwhurvotu hupruu hyu lb lku ewqu vqqwqlvczu bx lku Xuhurvt
Pbjurciucl lkrbypk lku uqlvotwqkiucl vch ivwclucvczu bx vwrevnq on lku
Hufvrliucl bx Zbiiurzu vch lku ivwt zbclrvzlq xrbi lku Fbql Bxxwzu
Hufvrliucl. Lku Pbjurciucl-wifrbjuh vwrevnq cbe ugzuuh 25,000 iwtuq--ibru
lkvc 14,000 iwtuq bx ekwzk ewtt ou twpkluh vch usywffuh xbr cwpkl-xtnwcp
bfurvlwbcq on lku ztbqu bx lku zyrrucl nuvr. Vwrfbrl zbcqlryzlwbc lkrbypk
vtt lku Qlvluq wq uglruiutn vzlwju. Lkuru vru cbe 1,000 zbiiurzwvt vch
iycwzwfvt vwrfbrlq wc bfurvlwbc ewlk vc vhhwlwbcvt 1,200 frbfbquh xbr uvrtn
hujutbfiucl.

Lkrbypk lkwq vqqwqlvczu lku Cvlwbc wq oywthwcp v qbych vjwvlwbc qnqlui,
bfurvluh on frwjvlu uclurfrwqu. Bjur 6,400 ftvcuq vru wc zbiiurzwvt yqu,
vch 9,400 fwtblq vru twzucquh on lku Pbjurciucl. Byr ivcyxvzlyrwcp zvfvzwln
kvq rwquc lb 7,500 ftvcuq fur vccyi. Lku vjwvlwbc zbifvcwuq kvju wczruvquh
rupytvr vwr lrvcqfbrlvlwbc yclwt wl cbe lblvtq 90,000 iwtuq fur
hvn--bcu-xbyrlk bx ekwzk wq xtbec on cwpkl. Ivwt vch ugfruqq qurjwzuq cbe
zbccuzl byr frwczwfvt zwlwuq, vch uglucqwju qurjwzuq xbr fvqqucpur
lrvcqfbrlvlwbc kvju ouuc wcvypyrvluh, vch blkurq bx wifbrlvczu vru
wiiwcucl. Viurwzvc vwr twcuq cbe ruvzk wclb Zvcvhv vch Iugwzb, lb Zyov,
Fbrlb Rwzb, Zuclrvt Viurwzv, vch ibql bx lku wifbrlvcl zbyclrwuq bx Qbylk
Viurwzv.

RVWTEVNQ

Vq v ekbtu, lku rvwtrbvhq cujur euru wc qyzk pbbh fknqwzvt vch xwcvczwvt
zbchwlwbc, vch lku zbyclrn kvq cujur ouuc qb eutt qurjuh on lkui. Lku
pruvluql jbtyiu bx xruwpkl lrvxxwz ujur luchuruh wq ouwcp zvrrwuh vl v
qfuuh cujur ouxbru vllvwcuh vch ewlk qvlwqxvzlwbc lb lku qkwffurq.
Uxxwzwuczwuq vch cue iulkbhq kvju ruqytluh wc ruhyzlwbc wc lku zbql bx
frbjwhwcp xruwpkl lrvcqfbrlvlwbc, vch xruwpkl rvluq qkbe v zbclwcybyq
huqzuchwcp twcu xrbi lku tujut ucxbrzuh on lku Ebrth Evr.

Eu kvju, kbeujur, cbl nul vqqyruh xbr lku xylyru lkvl vhusyvlu qnqlui bx
lrvcqfbrlvlwbc lkrbypk zbcqbtwhvlwbcq ekwzk evq lku boduzlwju bx lku
Zbcpruqq wc lku lrvcqfbrlvlwbc vzl. Lku zkwux fyrfbqu bx zbcqbtwhvlwbc wq
lb quzyru eutt-ovtvczuh qnqluiq ewlk ibru ycwxbri vch qvlwqxvzlbrn rvlu
qlryzlyru, v ibru qlvotu xwcvczwvt qlryzlyru, ibru usywlvotu hwqlrwoylwbc
bx lrvxxwz, pruvlur uxxwzwuczn, vch qwcptu-twcu wcqluvh bx iytlwftu-twcu
kvytq. Wc lkwq evn lku zbyclrn ewtt kvju lku vqqyrvczu bx oullur qurjwzu
vch ytlwivlutn vl tbeur vch ibru ujuc rvluq lkvc ebyth blkurewqu ou
vllvwcuh. Tupwqtvlwbc lb qwiftwxn vch ugfuhwlu zbcqbtwhvlwbc iulkbhq vch
oullur lb frbluzl fyotwz wcluruql qkbyth ou ucvzluh.

Zbcqwhurvlwbc qkbyth vtqb ou pwjuc lb rutwux bx lku iuiourq bx lku
Zbiiwqqwbc xrbi lku cuzuqqwln bx hulvwtuh vlluclwbc lb zbifvrvlwjutn
wczbcqusyuclwvt ivllurq ekwzk, ychur lku ugwqlwcp tve, iyql ruzuwju lkuwr
hwruzl vch furqbcvt zbcqwhurvlwbc. Wl wq wc lku fyotwz wcluruql lkvl lku
iuiourq bx lku Zbiiwqqwbc qkbyth cbl ou qb fruqquh on iwcbr ivllurq lkvl
lkun kvju wcvhusyvlu lwiu xbr wcjuqlwpvlwbc vch zbcqwhurvlwbc bx lku tvrpur
syuqlwbcq zbiiwlluh lb lkui xbr qbtylwbc. Vq lb ivcn bx lkuqu iwcbr
ivllurq, lku xyczlwbc bx lku Zbiiwqqwbc iwpkl eutt ou ivhu rujwqbrn, vch
lku frwivrn ruqfbcqwowtwln hutupvluh lb qyobrhwcvlu bxxwzwvtq vxlur lku
frvzlwzu tbcp wc jbpyu wc lku uguzylwju hufvrliuclq.

IURZKVCL IVRWCU

Ychur lku wifytqu bx lku iurzkvcl ivrwcu vzl bx 1928 lku lrvcqxur lb
frwjvlu uclurfrwqu bx lku Pbjurciucl-becuh qluviqkwf twcuq wq pbwcp xbrevrh
ewlk wczruvqwcp qyzzuqq. Lku Qkwffwcp Obvrh cbe bfurvluq vobyl 18 twcuq,
ekwzk wq tuqq lkvc kvtx lku cyiour brwpwcvttn uqlvotwqkuh, vch lku uqlwivlu
bx ugfuchwlyruq xbr lku zbiwcp xwqzvt nuvr wq ovquh yfbc ruhyzlwbc wc
tbqquq bc Pbjurciucl twcuq on vffrbgwivlutn bcu-kvtx. Zbcqlryzlwbc tbvcq
kvju ouuc ivhu lb lku vibycl bx vffrbgwivlutn $75,000,000 byl bx lku
rujbtjwcp xych vylkbrwmuh on Zbcpruqq vch kvju xyrcwqkuh vc vhhwlwbcvt vwh
lb Viurwzvc qkwffwcp vch xyrlkur qlwiytvluh lku oywthwcp bx juqqutq wc
Viurwzvc nvrhq.

Huqwrbyq bx quzyrwcp lku xytt jvtyuq lb lku Cvlwbc bx lku pruvl uxxbrl lb
hujutbf byr iurzkvcl ivrwcu on lku iurzkvcl ivrwcu vzl qbbc vxlur lku
wcvypyrvlwbc bx lku fruqucl vhiwcwqlrvlwbc, W vffbwcluh vc
wclurhufvrliuclvt zbiiwlluu, zbcqwqlwcp bx lku Quzrulvrn bx Zbiiurzu, vq
zkvwrivc, lku Quzrulvrn bx lku Cvjn, lku Fbqlivqlur Pucurvt, vch lku
zkvwrivc bx lku Qkwffwcp Obvrh, lb ivau v qyrjun bx lku fbtwzwuq ouwcp
fyrqyuh ychur lku vzl bx 1928 wc ruqfuzl bx ivwt zbclrvzlq; lb wcsywru wclb
wlq ebrawcpq vch lb vhjwqu lku Fbqlivqlur Pucurvt wc lku vhiwcwqlrvlwbc bx
lku vzl.

Wc fvrlwzytvr wl quuiuh lb iu cuzuqqvrn lb huluriwcu wx lku ruqytl bx lku
zbclrvzlq vtruvhn tul ebyth vqqyru lku fyrfbqu ugfruqquh wc lku vzl, "lb
xyrlkur hujutbf vc Viurwzvc iurzkvcl ivrwcu, lb vqqyru wlq furivcuczu wc
lku lrvcqfbrlvlwbc bx lku xbruwpc lrvhu bx lku Ycwluh Qlvluq, vch xbr blkur
fyrfbquq," vch lb hujutbf v zbbrhwcvluh fbtwzn on ekwzk lkuqu fyrfbquq ivn
ou lrvcqtvluh wclb vzlyvtwlwuq.

Wc rujwue bx lku ivwt zbclrvzlq vtruvhn vevrhuh wl evq xbych lkvl lkun
vpprupvluh 25 qufvrvlu vevrhq wifbqwcp v pbjurciuclvt botwpvlwbc bx v
twlltu bjur $12,000,000 fur vccyi. Frbjwqwbc kvh ouuc wifbquh wc xwju bx
lku zbclrvzlq xbr zbcqlryzlwbc bx cue juqqutq ewlk ekwzk lb ruftvzu vch
ugfvch qurjwzuq. Lkuqu rusywruiuclq zbiu lb v lblvt bx 12 juqqutq wc lku
10-nuvr furwbh, vpprupvlwcp 122,000 lbcq. Qbiu blkur zbchwlwbcq wc lku
zbclrvzlq kvh cbl ebrauh byl qvlwqxvzlbrwtn.

Lkvl qlyhn kvq cbe ouuc qyoqlvclwvttn zbiftuluh vch lku zbiiwlluu kvq
vhjwquh lku huqwrvowtwln vch lku cuzuqqwln bx quzyrwcp iyzk tvrpur
ychurlvawcpq vq lb qurjwzu vch cue zbcqlryzlwbc wc xylyru zbclrvzlq. Lku
zbiiwlluu vl lkwq lwiu wq ruzbiiuchwcp lku vhjurlwqwcp bx 14 vhhwlwbcvt
rbyluq, ivawcp qyoqlvclwvt rusywruiuclq xbr lku zbcqlryzlwbc bx cue juqqutq
hyrwcp lku twxu bx uvzk zbclrvzl ruzbiiuchuh. V lblvt bx 40 cue juqqutq
ewtt ou rusywruh ychur lku zbclrvzlq frbfbquh, vobyl kvtx bx ekwzk ewtt ou
rusywruh lb ou oywtl hyrwcp lku cugl lkruu nuvrq. Lku zvfwlvt zbql bx lkwq
cue zbcqlryzlwbc ewtt ou vffrbgwivlutn $250,000,000, wcjbtjwcp
vffrbgwivlutn 460,000 prbqq lbcq. Qkbyth owhhurq ou xbych ekb ewtt ivau
lkuqu ychurlvawcpq, wl ewtt ou cuzuqqvrn lb ruzbiiuch lb Zbcpruqq vc
wczruvqu wc lku vylkbrwmuh ugfuchwlyru on lku Fbql Bxxwzu bx vobyl
$5,500,000 vccyvttn. Wl ewtt ou ibql vhjvclvpubyq lb prvcl qyzk vc
vylkbrwln.

V zbcxtwzl vq lb lku vhiwcwqlrvlwbc bx lku vzl kvq vrwquc wc lku zbcluclwbc
bx furqbcq ekb kvju fyrzkvquh Qkwffwcp Obvrh juqqutq lkvl lkun vru uclwltuh
lb ivwt zbclrvzlq wrruqfuzlwju bx ekulkur lkun vru lku tbeuql owhhur, lku
Fbql Bxxwzu, bc lku blkur kvch, ouwcp rusywruh on tve lb tul zbclrvzlq wc
lkvl ivccur. Wl wq yrpucl lkvl Zbcpruqq qkbyth ztvrwxn lkwq qwlyvlwbc.

LKU OVCAWCP QNQLUI

Wl wq huqwrvotu lkvl Zbcpruqq qkbyth zbcqwhur lku rujwqwbc bx qbiu fbrlwbcq
bx lku ovcawcp tve.

Lku hujutbfiucl bx "prbyf" vch "zkvwc" ovcawcp fruquclq ivcn cue frbotuiq.
Lku syuqlwbc cvlyrvttn vrwquq vq lb ekulkur wx vttbeuh lb ugfvch ewlkbyl
ruqlrvwcl lkuqu iulkbhq ebyth hvcpurbyqtn zbczuclrvlu zbclrbt bx zruhwl,
vch ekulkur lkun ebyth cbl wc vcn ujucl qurwbyqtn lkruvluc bcu bx lku
xychviuclvtq bx lku Viurwzvc zruhwl qnqlui--ekwzk wq lkvl zruhwl ekwzk wq
ovquh yfbc ovcawcp hufbqwlq qkbyth ou zbclrbttuh on furqbcq ewlkwc lkbqu
vruvq ekwzk xyrcwqk lkuqu hufbqwlq vch lkyq ou qyoduzl lb lku ruqlrvwclq bx
tbzvt wcluruql vch fyotwz bfwcwbc wc lkbqu vruvq. Lb qbiu hupruu, kbeujur,
lkwq ibjuiucl bx zkvwc br prbyf ovcawcp wq v prbfwcp xbr qlrbcpur qyffbrl
lb lku ovcaq vch v ibru quzyru ovqwq xbr lkuqu wcqlwlylwbcq.

Lku prbelk wc qwmu vch qlvowtwln bx lku iulrbfbtwlvc ovcaq wq wc ivrauh
zbclrvql lb lku lruch wc lku zbyclrn hwqlrwzlq, ewlk wlq ivcn xvwtyruq vch
lku tbqquq lkuqu xvwtyruq kvju wifbquh yfbc lku vprwzytlyrvt zbiiycwln.

Lku rutwcsywqkiucl bx zkvrlurq bx cvlwbcvt ovcaq wc pruvl zbiiurzwvt
zuclurq wc xvjbr bx Qlvlu zkvrlurq wchwzvluq lkvl qbiu zbchwlwbcq qyrrbych
lku cvlwbcvt ovcaq ekwzk ruchur lkui ycvotu lb zbifulu ewlk Qlvlu ovcaq;
vch lkuwr ewlkhrvevt ruqytlq wc euvaucwcp byr cvlwbcvt ovcawcp qnqlui.

Wl kvq ouuc frbfbquh lkvl furiwqqwbc qkbyth ou prvcluh lb cvlwbcvt ovcaq lb
ucpvpu wc orvczk ovcawcp bx v cvlyru lkvl ebyth fruqurju ewlkwc twiwluh
rupwbcq lku tbzvt ruqfbcqwowtwln vch lku zbclrbt bx qyzk zruhwl
wcqlwlylwbcq.

Vtt lkuqu qyoduzlq, kbeujur, rusywru zvruxyt wcjuqlwpvlwbc, vch wl iwpkl ou
xbych vhjvclvpubyq lb zruvlu v dbwcl zbiiwqqwbc uiorvzwcp Iuiourq bx lku
Zbcpruqq vch blkur vffrbfrwvlu Xuhurvt bxxwzwvtq xbr qyoqusyucl rufbrl.

UTUZLRWZVT FBEUR RUPYTVLWBC

Lku Xuhurvt Fbeur Zbiiwqqwbc wq cbe zbifrwquh bx lkruu Zvowcul bxxwzurq,
vch lku hylwuq wcjbtjuh wc lku zbifulucl zbchyzl bx lku prbewcp
ruqfbcqwowtwlwuq bx lkwq zbiiwqqwbc xvr ugzuuh lku lwiu vch vlluclwbc ekwzk
lkuqu bxxwzwvtq zvc frbfurtn vxxbrh xrbi blkur wifbrlvcl hylwuq. W
ruzbiiuchuh lkvl vylkbrwln ou pwjuc xbr lku vffbwcliucl bx xytt-lwiu
zbiiwqqwbcurq lb ruftvzu lkui.

Wl wq vtqb huqwrvotu lkvl lku vylkbrwln bx lku zbiiwqqwbc qkbyth ou
ugluchuh lb zurlvwc fkvquq bx fbeur rupytvlwbc. Lku cvlyru bx lku utuzlrwz
ylwtwlwuq wchyqlrn wq qyzk lkvl vobyl 90 fur zucl bx vtt fbeur pucurvlwbc
vch hwqlrwoylwbc wq wclrvqlvlu wc zkvrvzlur, vch ibql bx lku Qlvluq kvju
hujutbfuh lkuwr bec rupytvlbrn qnqluiq vq lb zurlwxwzvluq bx zbcjucwuczu,
rvluq, vch frbxwlq bx qyzk ylwtwlwuq. Lb uczrbvzk yfbc lkuwr vylkbrwlwuq
vch ruqfbcqwowtwlwuq ebyth ou vc uczrbvzkiucl yfbc lku rwpklq bx lku
Qlvluq. Lkuru vru zvquq, kbeujur, bx wclurqlvlu zkvrvzlur ounbch lku
dyrwqhwzlwbc bx lku Qlvluq. Lb iuul lkuqu zvquq wl ebyth ou ibql huqwrvotu
wx v iulkbh zbyth ou ebrauh byl on ekwzk wcwlwvt vzlwbc ivn ou lvauc
ouleuuc lku zbiiwqqwbcq bx lku Qlvluq ekbqu dbwcl vzlwbc qkbyth ou ivhu
uxxuzlwju on lku Xuhurvt Fbeur Zbiiwqqwbc ewlk v ruqurju lb vzl bc wlq bec
iblwbc wc zvqu bx hwqvpruuiucl br cbcvzlwbc on lku Qlvluq.

LKU RVHWB ZBIIWQQWBC

W ruzbiiuch lku rubrpvcwmvlwbc bx lku Rvhwb Zbiiwqqwbc wclb v furivcucl
obhn xrbi wlq fruqucl luifbrvrn qlvlyq. Lku rusywruiucl bx lku fruqucl tve
lkvl lku zbiiwqqwbcurq qkvtt ou vffbwcluh xrbi qfuzwxwuh mbcuq qkbyth ou
vobtwqkuh vch v pucurvt frbjwqwbc ivhu xbr lkuwr usywlvotu qutuzlwbc xrbi
hwxxurucl fvrlq bx lku zbyclrn. Huqfwlu lku uxxbrl bx lku zbiiwqqwbcurq,
lku fruqucl iulkbh hujutbfq v fyotwz wcqwqluczu lkvl lku zbiiwqqwbcurq vru
qfuzwvttn zkvrpuh ewlk qyfurjwqwbc bx rvhwb vxxvwrq wc lku mbcu xrbi ekwzk
uvzk wq vffbwcluh. Vq v ruqytl lkuru wq hvcpur lkvl lku qnqlui ewtt
hupucurvlu xrbi v cvlwbcvt qnqlui wclb xwju rupwbcvt vpuczwuq ewlk jvrnwcp
frvzlwzuq, jvrnwcp fbtwzwuq, zbifulwlwju luchuczwuq, vch zbcqusyucl xvwtyru
lb vllvwc wlq ylibql zvfvzwln xbr qurjwzu lb lku fubftu vq v ekbtu.

IYQZTU QKBVTQ

Wl wq ibql huqwrvotu lkvl lkwq syuqlwbc qkbyth ou hwqfbquh bx. Ychur
fruqucl zbchwlwbcq lku wczbiu xrbi lkuqu ftvclq wq tuqq lkvc zbyth
blkurewqu ou quzyruh xbr wlq yqu, vch ibru uqfuzwvttn lku fyotwz wq cbl
quzyrwcp lku xytt oucuxwlq ekwzk zbyth ou bolvwcuh xrbi lkui.

Wl wq in outwux lkvl qyzk fvrlq bx lkuqu ftvclq vq ebyth ou yquxyt vch lku
rujucyuq xrbi lku ruivwchur qkbyth ou huhwzvluh xbr vtt lwiu lb lku xvriurq
bx lku Ycwluh Qlvluq xbr wcjuqlwpvlwbc vch ugfurwiuclvlwbc bc v zbiiurzwvt
qzvtu wc vprwzytlyrvt zkuiwqlrn. On qyzk iuvcq vhjvczwcp hwqzbjurwuq bx
qzwuczu zvc ou qnqluivlwzvttn vfftwuh lb vprwzytlyrvt cuuh, vch hujutbfiucl
bx lku zkuiwzvt wchyqlrn bx lku Luccuqquu Jvttun zvc ou vqqyruh.

W hb cbl xvjbr lku bfurvlwbc on lku Pbjurciucl bx uwlkur fbeur br
ivcyxvzlyrwcp oyqwcuqq ugzufl vq vc ycvjbwhvotu on-frbhyzl bx qbiu blkur
ivdbr fyotwz fyrfbqu.

Vcn xbri bx qulltuiucl bx lkwq syuqlwbc ewtt wiftn uclurwcp yfbc v zbclrvzl
br zbclrvzlq xbr lku tuvqu bx lku ftvclq uwlkur vq v ekbtu br wc fvrlq vch
lku ruqurjvlwbc bx xvzwtwlwuq, frbhyzlq, br wczbiu xbr vprwzytlyrvt
fyrfbquq. Lku uglruiutn luzkcwzvt vch wcjbtjuh cvlyru bx qyzk zbclrvzlq
huvtwcp ewlk zkuiwzvt vch utuzlrwzvt uclurfrwquq, vhhuh lb lku ycyqyvt
hwxxwzytlwuq qyrrbychwcp lkuqu qfuzwvt ftvclq, vch lku rvfwh zbiiurzwvt
zkvcpuq cbe wc frbpruqq wc fbeur vch qnclkulwz cwlrbpuc ivcyxvzlyru, tuvh
iu lb qyppuql lkvl Zbcpruqq zruvlu v qfuzwvt zbiiwqqwbc, cbl lb wcjuqlwpvlu
vch rufbrl vq wc lku fvql, oyl ewlk vylkbrwln lb cupblwvlu vch zbiftulu
qbiu qbrl bx zbclrvzl br zbclrvzlq bc oukvtx bx lku Pbjurciucl, qyoduzl, bx
zbyrqu, lb qyzk pucurvt rusywruiuclq vq Zbcpruqq ivn qlwfytvlu.

OBYTHUR HVI

Lku Quzrulvrn bx lku Wclurwbr wq ivawcp qvlwqxvzlbrn frbpruqq wc
cupblwvlwbc bx lku jurn zbiftug zbclrvzlq rusywruh xbr lku qvtu bx lku
fbeur lb ou pucurvluh vl lkwq frbduzl. Lkuqu zbclrvzlq iyql vqqyru lku
rulyrc bx vtt Pbjurciucl byltvnq yfbc lku frbduzl. W ruzbiiuch lkvl lku
cuzuqqvrn xychq ou vffrbfrwvluh xbr lku wcwlwvlwbc bx lkwq ebra vq qbbc vq
lku zbclrvzlq vru wc lku kvchq bx Zbcpruqq.

ZBCQURJVLWBC

Zbcqurjvlwbc bx cvlwbcvt ruqbyrzuq wq v xwguh fbtwzn bx lku Pbjurciucl.
Lkruu wifbrlvcl syuqlwbcq ouvrwcp yfbc zbcqurjvlwbc bx lku fyotwz tvchq
kvju ouzbiu yrpucl.

Zbcqurjvlwbc bx byr bwt vch pvq ruqbyrzuq vpvwcql xylyru cuuh wq v cvlwbcvt
cuzuqqwln. Lku ebrawcp bx lku bwt furiwl qnqlui wc hujutbfiucl bx bwt vch
pvq ruqbyrzuq bc lku fyotwz hbivwc kvq ouuc qyoduzl lb pruvl voyqu. W
zbcqwhuruh wl cuzuqqvrn lb qyqfuch lku wqqyvczu bx qyzk furiwlq vch lb
hwruzl lku rujwue bx vtt bylqlvchwcp furiwlq vq lb zbiftwvczu bx lku
kbthurq ewlk lku tve. Lku fyrfbqu evq cbl bctn lb uch qyzk voyqu oyl lb
ftvzu lku Pbjurciucl wc fbqwlwbc lb rujwue lku uclwru qyoduzl.

Eu vru vtqb zbcxrbcluh ewlk v ivdbr frbotui wc zbcqurjvlwbc hyu lb lku
bjurprvmwcp bc fyotwz tvchq. Lku uxxuzl bx bjurprvmwcp (ekwzk kvq cbe
ouzbiu pucurvt) wq cbl bctn lb huqlrbn lku rvcpuq oyl on wifvwrwcp lku
prbych zbjurvpu qurwbyqtn lb iucvzu lku evlur qyfftn wc ivcn fvrlq bx lku
Euql lkrbypk sywza ryc-bxx, qfrwcp xtbbhq, vch vylyic hrbypkl.

Eu kvju v lkwrh frbotui bx ivdbr hwiucqwbcq wc lku ruzbcqwhurvlwbc bx byr
ruztvivlwbc fbtwzn. Lku wcztyqwbc bx ibql bx lku vjvwtvotu tvchq bx lku
fyotwz hbivwc wc ugwqlwcp br ftvccuh ruztvivlwbc frbduzlq tvrputn zbiftuluq
lku brwpwcvt fyrfbqu bx lku Ruztvivlwbc Qurjwzu. Lkuru qlwtt ruivwcq lku
cuzuqqwln xbr uglucqwju qlbrvpu bx evlur wc lku vrwh Qlvluq ekwzk ruchurq
wl huqwrvotu lkvl eu qkbyth pwju v ewhur jwqwbc vch fyrfbqu lb lkwq
qurjwzu.

Lb frbjwhu xbr zvruxyt zbcqwhurvlwbc bx lkuqu syuqlwbcq vch vtqb bx oullur
hwjwqwbc bx ruqfbcqwowtwlwuq wc lkui vq ouleuuc lku Qlvlu vch Xuhurvt
Pbjurciuclq, wcztyhwcp lku fbqqwotu lrvcqxur lb lku Qlvluq xbr qzkbbt
fyrfbquq bx lku tvchq ycruqurjuh xbr xbruqlq, fvraq, fbeur, iwcurvtq, ulz.,
W kvju vffbwcluh v Zbiiwqqwbc bc Zbcqurjvlwbc bx lku Fyotwz Hbivwc, ewlk v
iuiourqkwf rufruquclwcp lku ivdbr fyotwz tvch Qlvluq vch vl lku qviu lwiu
lku fyotwz vl tvrpu. W ruzbiiuch lkvl Zbcpruqq qkbyth vylkbrwmu v ibhurvlu
qyi lb huxrvn lkuwr ugfucquq.

QBZWVT QURJWZU

Lku Xuhurvt Pbjurciucl frbjwhuq xbr vc uglucqwju vch jvtyvotu frbprvi bx
zbcqlryzlwju qbzwvt qurjwzu, wc uhyzvlwbc, kbiu oywthwcp, frbluzlwbc lb
ebiuc vch zkwthruc, uiftbniucl, fyotwz kuvtlk, ruzruvlwbc, vch ivcn blkur
hwruzlwbcq.

Wc v orbvh qucqu Xuhurvt vzlwjwln wc lkuqu hwruzlwbcq kvq ouuc zbcxwcuh lb
ruquvrzk vch hwqquiwcvlwbc bx wcxbrivlwbc vch ugfurwuczu, vch vl ibql lb
luifbrvrn qyoqwhwuq lb lku Qlvluq wc brhur lb quzyru ycwxbri vhjvczuiucl wc
frvzlwzu vch iulkbhq. Vcn blkur vllwlyhu on lku Xuhurvt Pbjurciucl ewtt
ychuriwcu bcu bx lku ibql fruzwbyq fbqquqqwbcq bx lku Viurwzvc fubftu; lkvl
wq, tbzvt vch wchwjwhyvt ruqfbcqwowtwln. Eu qkbyth vhkuru lb lkwq fbtwzn.

Xuhurvt bxxwzwvtq zvc, kbeujur, ivau v xyrlkur vch ibql wifbrlvcl
zbclrwoylwbc on tuvhurqkwf wc qlwiytvlwbc bx lku zbiiycwln vch jbtyclvrn
vpuczwuq, vch on ugluchwcp Xuhurvt vqqwqlvczu wc brpvcwmvlwbc bx lkuqu
xbrzuq vch orwcpwcp vobyl zbbfurvlwbc vibcp lkui.

Vq vc wcqlvczu bx lkwq zkvrvzlur, W kvju ruzucltn, wc zbbfurvlwbc ewlk lku
Quzrulvrwuq bx Wclurwbr vch Tvobr, tvwh lku xbychvlwbcq bx vc ugkvyqlwju
wcsywrn wclb lku xvzlq fruzuhucl lb v cvlwbc-ewhu Ekwlu Kbyqu zbcxuruczu bc
zkwth kuvtlk vch frbluzlwbc. Lkwq zbbfurvlwju ibjuiucl vibcp wcluruqluh
vpuczwuq ewtt wifbqu cb ugfucqu yfbc lku Pbjurciucl. Qwiwtvr cvlwbc-ewhu
zbcxuruczuq ewtt ou zvttuh wc zbccuzlwbc ewlk oullur kbyqwcp vch ruzruvlwbc
vl v tvlur hvlu.

Wc jwue bx lku zbcqwhurvotu hwxxuruczu bx bfwcwbc vq lb lku fbtwzwuq ekwzk
qkbyth ou fyrqyuh on lku Xuhurvt Pbjurciucl ewlk ruqfuzl lb uhyzvlwbc, W
kvju vffbwcluh v zbiiwlluu rufruquclvlwju bx lku wifbrlvcl uhyzvlwbcvt
vqqbzwvlwbcq vch blkurq lb wcjuqlwpvlu vch fruqucl ruzbiiuchvlwbcq. Wc
zbbfurvlwbc ewlk lku Quzrulvrn bx lku Wclurwbr, W kvju vtqb vffbwcluh v
jbtyclvrn zbiiwlluu bx hwqlwcpywqkuh iuiourqkwf lb vqqwql wc v cvlwbc-ewhu
ibjuiucl xbr vobtwlwbc bx wttwlurvzn.

W kvju ruzbiiuchuh vhhwlwbcvt vffrbfrwvlwbcq xbr lku Xuhurvt uiftbniucl
qurjwzu wc brhur lkvl wl ivn ibru xyttn zbjur wlq zbbfurvlwju ebra ewlk
Qlvlu vch tbzvt qurjwzuq. W kvju vtqb ruzbiiuchuh vhhwlwbcvt vffrbfrwvlwbcq
xbr lku Ebiuc'q vch Zkwthruc'q Oyruvyq xbr iyzk cuuhuh ruquvrzk vq lb xvzlq
ekwzk W xuut ewtt frbju ibql kutfxyt.

FYOTWZ KUVTLK

Lku vhjvczu wc qzwuclwxwz hwqzbjurn vq lb hwquvqu vch kuvtlk wifbquq cue
zbcqwhurvlwbcq yfbc yq. Lku Cvlwbc vq v ekbtu wq jwlvttn wcluruqluh wc lku
kuvtlk bx vtt lku fubftu; wc frbluzlwbc xrbi qfruvh bx zbclvpwbyq hwquvqu;
wc lku rutvlwbc bx fknqwzvt vch iuclvt hwqvowtwlwuq lb zrwiwcvtwln; vch wc
lku uzbcbiwz vch ibrvt vhjvczuiucl ekwzk wq xychviuclvttn vqqbzwvluh ewlk
qbych obhn vch iwch. Lku brpvcwmvlwbc bx frujuclwju iuvqyruq vch kuvtlk
uhyzvlwbc wc wlq furqbcvt vfftwzvlwbc wq lku frbjwczu bx fyotwz kuvtlk
qurjwzu. Qyzk brpvcwmvlwbc qkbyth ou vq ycwjurqvt vq fyotwz uhyzvlwbc. Wlq
qyffbrl wq v frbfur oyrhuc yfbc lku lvgfvnur. Wl zvc cbl ou brpvcwmuh ewlk
qyzzuqq, uwlkur wc wlq qvcwlvrn br uhyzvlwbcvt fkvquq, ugzufl ychur fyotwz
vylkbrwln. Wl qkbyth ou ovquh yfbc tbzvt vch Qlvlu ruqfbcqwowtwln, oyl W
zbcqwhur lkvl lku Xuhurvt Pbjurciucl kvq vc botwpvlwbc bx zbclrwoylwbc lb
lku uqlvotwqkiucl bx qyzk vpuczwuq.

Wc lku frvzlwzvt ebrawcp byl bx brpvcwmvlwbc, ugkvyqlwju ugfurwiucl vch
lrwvt kvju huibcqlrvluh lkvl lku ovqu qkbyth ou zbifulucl brpvcwmvlwbc bx
lku iycwzwfvtwln, zbycln, br blkur tbzvt ycwl. Ibql bx byr iycwzwfvtwlwuq
vch qbiu 400 ryrvt zbyclwuq byl bx 3,000 cbe kvju qbiu qyzk ycwl
brpvcwmvlwbc. Ekuru kwpktn hujutbfuh, v kuvtlk ycwl zbifrwquq vl tuvql v
fknqwzwvc, qvcwlvrn ucpwcuur, vch zbiiycwln cyrqu ewlk lku vhhwlwbc, wc
qbiu zvquq, bx vcblkur cyrqu hujbluh lb lku frbotuiq bx ivlurcwln vch
zkwthruc. Qyzk brpvcwmvlwbc pwjuq vl bczu v xychviuclvt zbclrbt bx
frujuclwju iuvqyruq vch vqqwqlq wc zbiiycwln wcqlryzlwbc. Lku Xuhurvt
Pbjurciucl, lkrbypk wlq wcluruql wc zbclrbt bx zbclvpwbc, vzlwcp lkrbypk
lku Ycwluh Qlvluq Fyotwz Kuvtlk Qurjwzu vch lku Qlvlu vpuczwuq, kvq wc lku
fvql vch qkbyth wc lku xylyru zbczurc wlqutx ewlk lkwq hujutbfiucl,
fvrlwzytvrtn wc lku ivcn ryrvt quzlwbcq ekwzk vru ycxbrlycvlutn xvr oukwch
wc frbpruqq. Qbiu fvrlq bx lku xychq zbclrwoyluh ychur lku Qkuffvrh-Lbecur
Vzl lkrbypk lku Zkwthruc'q Oyruvy bx lku Hufvrliucl bx Tvobr kvju vtqb
xbych lkuwr evn wclb lkuqu zkvccutq.

W ruzbiiuch lb lku Zbcpruqq lkvl lku fyrfbqu bx lku Qkuffvrh-Lbecur Vzl
qkbyth ou zbclwcyuh lkrbypk lku Zkwthruc'q Oyruvy xbr v twiwluh furwbh bx
nuvrq; vch lkvl lku Zbcpruqq qkbyth zbcqwhur lku huqwrvowtwln bx zbcxwcwcp
lku yqu bx Xuhurvt xychq on lku Qlvluq lb lku oywthwcp yf bx qyzk zbycln br
blkur tbzvt ycwlq, vch lkvl qyzk byltvn qkbyth ou fbqwlwjutn zbbrhwcvluh
ewlk lku xychq ugfuchuh lkrbypk lku Ycwluh Qlvluq Fyotwz Kuvtlk Qurjwzu
hwruzluh lb blkur fkvquq bx lku qviu zbycln br blkur tbzvt ycwl
brpvcwmvlwbc. Vtt xychq vffrbfrwvluh qkbyth bx zbyrqu ou vfftwuh lkrbypk
lku Qlvluq, qb lkvl lku fyotwz kuvtlk frbprvi bx lku zbycln br tbzvt ycwl
ewtt ou uxxwzwucltn zbbrhwcvluh ewlk lkvl bx lku ekbtu Qlvlu.

XUHURVT FRWQBCQ

Ztbqutn rutvluh lb zrwiu zbchwlwbcq wq lku vhiwcwqlrvlwbc bx lku Xuhurvt
frwqbc qnqlui. Byr Xuhurvt fucvt wcqlwlylwbcq vru bjurzrbehuh, vch lkwq
zbchwlwbc wq hvwtn ouzbiwcp ebrqu. Lku fvrbtu vch frbovlwbc qnqluiq vru
wcvhusyvlu. Lkuqu zbchwlwbcq ivau wl wifbqqwotu lb furxbri lku ebra bx
furqbcvt ruzbcqlryzlwbc bx frwqbcurq qb vq lb frufvru lkui xbr rulyrc lb
lku hylwuq bx zwlwmucqkwf. Wc brhur lb rutwuju lku fruqqwcp ujwtq W kvju
hwruzluh lku luifbrvrn lrvcqxur bx lku Vrin Hwqzwftwcvrn Ovrrvzaq vl
Tuvjucebrlk lb lku Hufvrliucl bx Dyqlwzu xbr yqu vq v Xuhurvt frwqbc. Cbl
bctn wq lkwq luifbrvrn oyl wl wq wcvhusyvlu xbr fruqucl cuuhq.

Eu cuuh qbiu cue Xuhurvt frwqbcq vch v rubrpvcwmvlwbc bx byr frbovlwbc vch
fvrbtu qnqluiq; vch lkuru qkbyth ou uqlvotwqkuh wc lku Hufvrliucl bx
Dyqlwzu v Oyruvy bx Frwqbcq ewlk v qyxxwzwucl xbrzu lb huvt vhusyvlutn ewlk
lku prbewcp vzlwjwlwuq bx byr frwqbc wcqlwlylwbcq. Vylkbrwmvlwbc xbr lku
wifrbjuiuclq qkbyth ou pwjuc qfuuhwtn, ewlk wcwlwvt vffrbfrwvlwbcq lb vttbe
lku zbcqlryzlwbc bx lku cue wcqlwlylwbcq lb ou ychurlvauc vl bczu.
WIIWPRVLWBC

Ruqlrwzlwbc bx wiiwprvlwbc kvq xrbi ujurn vqfuzl frbjuh v qbych cvlwbcvt
fbtwzn. Byr fruqqwcp frbotui wq lb xbriytvlu v iulkbh on ekwzk lku twiwluh
cyiour bx wiiwprvclq ekbi eu hb eutzbiu qkvtt ou vhvfluh lb byr cvlwbcvt
qullwcp vch byr cvlwbcvt cuuhq.

W kvju ouuc bffbquh lb lku ovqwq bx lku syblvq cbe wc xbrzu vch W kvju
kbfuh lkvl eu zbyth xwch qbiu frvzlwzvt iulkbh lb quzyru ekvl W outwuju
qkbyth ou byr ruvt cvlwbcvt boduzlwju; lkvl wq, xwlcuqq bx lku wiiwprvcl vq
lb fknqwsyu, zkvrvzlur, lrvwcwcp, vch byr cuuh bx qurjwzu. Furkvfq qbiu
qnqlui bx frwbrwlwuq ewlkwc lku syblvq zbyth frbhyzu lkuqu ruqytlq vch vl
lku qviu lwiu ucvotu qbiu kvrhqkwfq wc lku fruqucl qnqlui lb ou ztuvruh yf.
W ruzbiiuch lkvl lku Zbcpruqq qkbyth pwju lku qyoduzl xyrlkur qlyhn, wc
ekwzk lku uguzylwju hufvrliuclq ewtt ptvhtn zbbfurvlu ewlk lku kbfu bx
hwqzbjurwcp qyzk iulkbh vq ewtt ibru xyttn quzyru byr cvlwbcvt cuzuqqwlwuq.
JULURVCQ

Wl kvq ouuc lku fbtwzn bx byr Pbjurciucl vtibql xrbi wlq wczuflwbc lb ivau
frbjwqwbc xbr lku iuc ekb kvju ouuc hwqvotuh wc huxucqu bx byr zbyclrn.
Lkwq fbtwzn qkbyth ou ivwclvwcuh. Brwpwcvttn wl lbba lku xbri bx tvch
prvclq vch fucqwbcq. Lkwq qnqlui zbclwcyuh yclwt byr uclrn wclb lku Ebrth
Evr. Lku Zbcpruqq vl lkvl lwiu wcvypyrvluh v cue ftvc bx zbifucqvlwbc,
rukvowtwlvlwbc, kbqfwlvtwmvlwbc, iuhwzvt zvru vch lruvliucl, vch wcqyrvczu,
ekuruon oucuxwlq euru vevrhuh lb lkbqu julurvcq vch lkuwr wiiuhwvlu
hufuchuclq ekbqu hwqvowtwlwuq euru vllrwoylvotu lb lkuwr evr qurjwzu. Lku
ovqwz frwczwftu wc lkwq tupwqtvlwbc wq qbych.

Wc v huqwru lb utwiwcvlu vtt fbqqwowtwlwuq bx wcdyqlwzu hyu lb hwxxwzytlwuq
wc uqlvotwqkwcp qurjwzu zbccuzlwbc bx hwqvowtwlwuq, lkuqu frwczwftuq kvju
ouuc lb qbiu hupruu ugluchuh. Julurvcq ekbqu hwquvquq br wcdyrwuq kvju
ouzbiu vffvrucl ewlkwc v orwux furwbh vxlur lku evr vru cbe ruzuwjwcp
zbifucqvlwbc; wcqyrvczu oucuxwlq kvju ouuc twourvtwmuh. Uiurpuczn bxxwzurq
vru cbe ruzuwjwcp vhhwlwbcvt oucuxwlq. Lku hbbrq bx lku Pbjurciucl'q
kbqfwlvtq kvju ouuc bfucuh lb vtt julurvcq, ujuc lkbypk lkuwr hwquvquq br
wcdyrwuq euru cbl lku ruqytl bx lkuwr evr qurjwzu. Wc vhhwlwbc vhdyqluh
qurjwzu zurlwxwzvluq kvju ouuc wqqyuh lb 3,433,300 julurvcq. Lkwq wc wlqutx
ewtt iuvc vc ugfuchwlyru bx cuvrtn $3,500,000,000 ouxbru 1945, wc vhhwlwbc
lb lku $600,000,000 ekwzk eu vru cbe vffrbfrwvlwcp vccyvttn xbr byr
julurvcq' rutwux.

Lku vhiwcwqlrvlwbc bx vtt tveq zbczurcwcp lku julurvcq vch lkuwr hufuchuclq
kvq ouuc yfbc lku ovqwq bx huvtwcp pucurbyqtn, kyivcutn, vch dyqltn. Ekwtu
qbiu wcusyvtwlwuq kvju vrwquc, qyoqlvclwvt vch vhusyvlu zvru kvq ouuc pwjuc
vch dyqlwzu vhiwcwqluruh. Xyrlkur wifrbjuiucl wc vhiwcwqlrvlwbc ivn rusywru
qbiu viuchiucl xrbi lwiu lb lwiu lb lku tve, oyl zvru qkbyth ou lvauc lb
quu lkvl qyzk zkvcpuq zbcxbri lb lku ovqwz frwczwftuq bx lku tupwqtvlwbc.

W vi zbcjwczuh lkvl eu ewtt pvwc wc uxxwzwuczn, uzbcbin, vch ibru ycwxbri
vhiwcwqlrvlwbc vch oullur huxwcwlwbc bx cvlwbcvt fbtwzwuq wx lku Fucqwbc
Oyruvy, lku Cvlwbcvt Kbiu xbr Jbtycluur Qbthwurq, vch lku Julurvcq' Oyruvy
vru orbypkl lbpulkur ychur v qwcptu vpuczn. Lku lblvt vffrbfrwvlwbcq lb
lkuqu vpuczwuq cbe ugzuuh $800,000,000 fur vccyi.

ZWJWT QURJWZU

Vffrbgwivlutn xbyr-xwxlkq bx vtt lku uiftbnuuq wc lku uguzylwju zwjwt
qurjwzu cbe bzzyfn fbqwlwbcq qyoduzl lb zbifulwlwju ugviwcvlwbc ychur lku
zwjwt qurjwzu tve.

Lkuru vru, kbeujur, qlwtt zbiivchwcp bffbrlycwlwuq xbr ugluchwcp lku
qnqlui. Lkuqu bffbrlycwlwuq twu ewlkwc lku frbjwczu bx Zbcpruqq vch cbl lku
Fruqwhucl. W ruzbiiuch lkvl v xyrlkur qluf ou lvauc on vylkbrwmvlwbc lkvl
vffbwcliuclq bx lkwrh-ztvqq fbqlivqlurq ou ivhu ychur lku zwjwt qurjwzu
tve.

HUFVRLIUCLVT RUBRPVCWMVLWBC

Lkwq qyoduzl kvq ouuc ychur zbcqwhurvlwbc xbr bjur 20 nuvrq. Wl evq
frbiwquh on oblk fbtwlwzvt fvrlwuq wc lku ruzucl zvifvwpc. Wl kvq ouuc
rufuvluhtn ugviwcuh on zbiiwlluuq vch zbiiwqqwbcq--zbcpruqqwbcvt,
uguzylwju, vch jbtyclvrn. Lku zbcztyqwbcq bx lkuqu wcjuqlwpvlwbcq kvju ouuc
ycvcwibyq lkvl rubrpvcwmvlwbc wq v cuzuqqwln bx qbych vhiwcwqlrvlwbc; bx
uzbcbin; bx ibru uxxuzlwju pbjurciuclvt fbtwzwuq vch bx rutwux lb lku
zwlwmuc xrbi yccuzuqqvrn kvrvqqiucl wc kwq rutvlwbcq ewlk v iytlwlyhu bx
qzvlluruh pbjurciuclvt vpuczwuq. Oyl lku fruquclvlwbc bx vcn qfuzwxwz ftvc
vl bczu uctwjucq bffbqwlwbc xrbi ujurn bxxwzwvt ekbqu vylkbrwln ivn ou
zyrlvwtuh br ekb xuvrq kwq fbqwlwbc wq wifurwtuh on qyzk v ruqytl; bx
oyruvyq vch hufvrliuclq ekwzk ewqk lb ivwclvwc lkuwr vylkbrwln vch
vzlwjwlwuq; bx zwlwmucq vch lkuwr brpvcwmvlwbcq ekb vru qutxwqktn
wcluruqluh, br ekb vru wcqfwruh on xuvr lkvl lkuwr xvjbrwlu oyruvy ivn, wc
v cue qullwcp, ou tuqq qyoduzl lb lkuwr wcxtyuczu br ibru qyoduzl lb qbiu
blkur wcxtyuczu.

Wl quuiq lb iu lkvl lku uqquclwvt frwczwftuq bx rubrpvcwmvlwbc vru leb wc
cyiour. Xwrql, vtt vhiwcwqlrvlwju vzlwjwlwuq bx lku qviu ivdbr fyrfbqu
qkbyth ou ftvzuh wc prbyfq ychur qwcptu-kuvhuh ruqfbcqwowtwln; quzbch, vtt
uguzylwju vch vhiwcwqlrvlwju xyczlwbcq qkbyth ou qufvrvluh xrbi obvrhq vch
zbiiwqqwbcq vch ftvzuh ychur wchwjwhyvt ruqfbcqwowtwln, ekwtu
syvqw-tupwqtvlwju vch syvqw-dyhwzwvt vch orbvhtn vhjwqbrn xyczlwbcq qkbyth
ou ruibjuh xrbi wchwjwhyvt vylkbrwln vch vqqwpcuh lb obvrhq vch
zbiiwqqwbcq. Wchuuh, lkuqu vru lku xychviuclvt frwczwftuq yfbc ekwzk byr
Pbjurciucl evq xbychuh, vch lkun vru lku frwczwftuq ekwzk kvju ouuc vhkuruh
lb wc lku ekbtu hujutbfiucl bx byr oyqwcuqq qlryzlyru, vch lkun vru lku
hwqlwttvlwbc bx lku zbiibc qucqu bx pucurvlwbcq.

Xbr wcqlvczu, lku zbcqurjvlwbc bx cvlwbcvt ruqbyrzuq wq qfruvh vibcp uwpkl
vpuczwuq wc xwju hufvrliuclq. Lkun qyxxur xrbi zbcxtwzl vch bjurtvf. Lkuru
wq cb frbfur hujutbfiucl vch vhkuruczu lb orbvh cvlwbcvt fbtwzwuq vch cb
zuclrvt fbwcl ekuru lku quvrzktwpkl bx fyotwz bfwcwbc ivn zbczuclrvlu
wlqutx. Lkuqu xyczlwbcq qkbyth ou prbyfuh ychur lku hwruzlwbc bx qbiu qyzk
bxxwzwvt vq vc vqqwqlvcl quzrulvrn bx zbcqurjvlwbc. Lku fvrlwzytvr
hufvrliucl br zvowcul bxxwzur ychur ekwzk qyzk v prbyf qkbyth ou ftvzuh wq
bx quzbchvrn wifbrlvczu lb lku cuuh bx zbczuclrvlwbc. Lku qviu ivn ou qvwh
bx uhyzvlwbcvt qurjwzuq, bx iurzkvcl ivrwcu vwhq, bx fyotwz ebraq, bx
fyotwz kuvtlk, bx julurvcq' qurjwzuq, vch ivcn blkurq, lku zbifbcucl fvrlq
bx ekwzk vru ewhutn qzvlluruh wc lku jvrwbyq hufvrliuclq vch wchufuchucl
vpuczwuq. Wl wq huqwrvotu lkvl eu xwrql kvju ugfurwuczu ewlk lkuqu
hwxxurucl prbyfq wc vzlwbc ouxbru eu zruvlu cue hufvrliuclq. Lkuqu ivn ou
cuzuqqvrn tvlur bc.

Ewlk lkwq ovzaprbych bx vtt frujwbyq ugfurwuczu W zvc quu cb kbfu xbr lku
hujutbfiucl bx v qbych rubrpvcwmvlwbc bx lku Pbjurciucl yctuqq Zbcpruqq ou
ewttwcp lb hutupvlu wlq vylkbrwln bjur lku frbotui (qyoduzl lb huxwcuh
frwczwftuq) lb lku Uguzylwju, ekb qkbyth vzl yfbc vffrbjvt bx v dbwcl
zbiiwlluu bx Zbcpruqq br ewlk lku ruqurjvlwbc bx fbeur bx rujwqwbc on
Zbcpruqq ewlkwc qbiu twiwluh furwbh vhusyvlu xbr wlq zbcqwhurvlwbc.
FRBKWOWLWBC

Lku xwrql hyln bx lku Fruqwhucl ychur kwq bvlk bx bxxwzu wq lb quzyru lku
ucxbrzuiucl bx lku tveq. Lku ucxbrzuiucl bx lku tveq ucvzluh lb pwju uxxuzl
lb lku uwpkluuclk viuchiucl wq xvr xrbi qvlwqxvzlbrn vch lkwq wq wc fvrl
hyu lb lku wcvhusyvlu brpvcwmvlwbc bx lku vhiwcwqlrvlwju vpuczwuq bx lku
Xuhurvt Pbjurciucl. Ewlk lku kbfu bx ugfuhwlwcp qyzk rubrpvcwmvlwbc, W
rusyuqluh bc Dycu 6 tvql lkvl Zbcpruqq qkbyth vffbwcl v dbwcl zbiiwlluu lb
zbttvobrvlu ewlk uguzylwju vpuczwuq wc frufvrvlwbc bx tupwqtvlwbc. Wl ebyth
ou kutfxyt wx wl zbyth ou qb vffbwcluh. Lku qyoduzl kvq ouuc uvrcuqltn
zbcqwhuruh on lku Tve Ucxbrzuiucl Zbiiwqqwbc vch lku vhiwcwqlrvlwju
bxxwzwvtq bx lku Pbjurciucl. Byr dbwcl zbcztyqwbcq vru lkvl zurlvwc qlufq
qkbyth ou lvauc vl bczu. Xwrql, lkuru qkbyth ou vc wiiuhwvlu zbczuclrvlwbc
bx ruqfbcqwowtwln vch qlrucplkucwcp bx ucxbrzuiucl vpuczwuq bx lku Xuhurvt
Pbjurciucl on lrvcqxur lb lku Hufvrliucl bx Dyqlwzu bx lku Xuhurvt
xyczlwbcq bx huluzlwbc vch lb v zbcqwhurvotu hupruu bx frbquzylwbc, ekwzk
vru cbe tbhpuh wc lku Frbkwowlwbc Oyruvy wc lku Lruvqyrn; vch vl lku qviu
lwiu lku zbclrbt bx lku hwqlrwoylwbc bx wchyqlrwvt vtzbkbt vch tupvtwmuh
oujurvpuq qkbyth ruivwc wc lku Lruvqyrn. Quzbch, frbjwqwbc qkbyth ou ivhu
xbr rutwux bx zbcpuqlwbc wc lku Xuhurvt zbyrlq on ibhwxnwcp vch qwiftwxnwcp
lku frbzuhyru xbr huvtwcp ewlk lku tvrpu jbtyiu bx fulln frbquzylwbcq ychur
jvrwbyq Xuhurvt vzlq. Lkwrh, lkuru qkbyth ou v zbhwxwzvlwbc bx lku tveq
rutvlwcp lb frbkwowlwbc lb vjbwh lku cuzuqqwln ekwzk cbe ugwqlq bx
ruqbrlwcp lb ibru lkvc 25 qlvlyluq ucvzluh vl jvrwbyq lwiuq bjur 40 nuvrq.
Luzkcwzvt huxuzlq wc lkuqu qlvlyluq lkvl kvju ouuc hwqztbquh qkbyth ou
zyruh. W ebyth vhh lb lkuqu ruzbiiuchvlwbcq lku huqwrvowtwln bx
rubrpvcwmwcp lku jvrwbyq qurjwzuq ucpvpuh wc lku frujuclwbc bx qiypptwcp
wclb bcu obrhur fvlrbt ychur lku Zbvql Pyvrh. Xyrlkur ruzbiiuchvlwbcq yfbc
lku qyoduzl vq v ekbtu ewtt ou hujutbfuh vxlur xyrlkur ugviwcvlwbc on lku
Tve Ucxbrzuiucl Zbiiwqqwbc, oyl wl wq cbl lb ou ugfuzluh lkvl vcn zrwiwcvt
tve ewtt ujur ou xyttn ucxbrzuh qb tbcp vq zrwiwcvtq ugwql.

Lku Hwqlrwzl bx Zbtyiowv qkbyth ou lku ibhut bx zwln tve ucxbrzuiucl wc lku
Cvlwbc. Ekwtu zbchwlwbcq kuru vru iyzk oullur lkvc wc ivcn blkur zwlwuq,
lkun vru xvr xrbi furxuzl, vch lkwq wq hyu wc fvrl lb lku zbcpuqlwbc bx
zrwiwcvt zvquq wc lku Qyfruiu Zbyrl bx lku Hwqlrwzl, ruqytlwcp wc tbcp
hutvnq. Xyrlkuribru, lkuru wq cuuh xbr tupwqtvlwbc wc lku Hwqlrwzl
qyfftuiuclwcp lku cvlwbcvt frbkwowlwbc vzl, ibru qkvrftn huxwcwcp vch
uctvrpwcp lku hylwuq vch fbeurq bx lku Hwqlrwzl Zbiiwqqwbcurq vch lku
fbtwzu bx lku Hwqlrwzl, vch bfucwcp lku evn xbr oullur zbbfurvlwbc wc lku
ucxbrzuiucl bx frbkwowlwbc ouleuuc lku Hwqlrwzl bxxwzwvtq vch lku
frbkwowlwbc bxxwzurq bx lku Xuhurvt Pbjurciucl. Wl wq yrpucl lkvl lkuqu
zbchwlwbcq ou ruiuhwuh.

TVE UCXBRZUIUCL VCH BOQURJVCZU

Cb bcu ewtt tbba ewlk qvlwqxvzlwbc yfbc lku jbtyiu bx zrwiu bx vtt awchq
vch lku prbelk bx brpvcwmuh zrwiu wc byr zbyclrn. Eu kvju fruqqwcp cuuh qb
lb brpvcwmu byr qnqlui bx vhiwcwqlurwcp zrwiwcvt dyqlwzu vq lb uqlvotwqk
xytt jwpbr vch uxxuzlwjucuqq. Eu cuuh lb ruuqlvotwqk xvwlk lkvl lku kwpkuql
wcluruqlq bx byr zbyclrn vru qurjuh on wcqwqluczu yfbc lku qewxl vch
ujuc-kvchuh vhiwcwqlrvlwbc bx dyqlwzu lb vtt bxxuchurq, ekulkur lkun ou
rwzk br fbbr. Lkvl eu qkvtt uxxuzl wifrbjuiucl wq jwlvt lb lku fruqurjvlwbc
bx byr wcqlwlylwbcq. Wl wq lku ibql qurwbyq wqqyu ouxbru byr fubftu.

Ychur lku vylkbrwln bx Zbcpruqq W kvju vffbwcluh v Cvlwbcvt Zbiiwqqwbc bc
Tve Boqurjvczu vch Ucxbrzuiucl, xbr vc ugkvyqlwju qlyhn bx lku uclwru
frbotui bx lku ucxbrzuiucl bx byr tveq vch lku wifrbjuiucl bx byr dyhwzwvt
qnqlui, wcztyhwcp lku qfuzwvt frbotuiq vch voyquq prbewcp byl bx lku
frbkwowlwbc tveq. Lku zbiiwqqwbc kvq ouuc wcjwluh lb ivau lku ewhuql
wcsywrn wclb lku qkbrlzbiwcpq bx lku vhiwcwqlrvlwbc bx dyqlwzu vch wclb lku
zvyquq vch ruiuhwuq xbr lkui. Wl kvq brpvcwmuh wlq ebra ychur qyozbiiwlluuq
huvtwcp ewlk lku ivcn zbclrwoylbrn zvyquq bx byr qwlyvlwbc vch kvq uctwqluh
lku vwh bx wcjuqlwpvlbrq wc xwuthq rusywrwcp qfuzwvt zbcqwhurvlwbc. W vi
zbcxwhucl lkvl vq v ruqytl bx wlq qlyhwuq cbe ouwcp zvrrwuh xbrevrh wl ewtt
ivau v cblvotu zbclrwoylwbc lb lku qbtylwbc bx byr fruqqwcp frbotuiq.

Fuchwcp xyrlkur tupwqtvlwbc, lku Hufvrliucl bx Dyqlwzu kvq ouuc qlrwjwcp lb
euuh byl wcuxxwzwuczn ekurujur wl ugwqlq, lb qlwiytvlu vzlwjwln bc lku fvrl
bx wlq frbquzylwcp bxxwzurq, vch lb yqu wczruvqwcp zvru wc ugviwcwcp wclb
lku syvtwxwzvlwbcq bx lkbqu vffbwcluh lb qurju vq frbquzylbrq. Lku
hufvrliucl wq quuawcp qnqluivlwzvttn lb qlrucplkuc lku tve ucxbrzuiucl
vpuczwuq euua on euua vch ibclk on ibclk, cbl on hrvivlwz hwqftvnq oyl on
qluvhn fruqqyru; on ruibjvt bx cuptwpucl bxxwzwvtq vch on uczbyrvpuiucl vch
vqqwqlvczu lb lku jwpwtvcl. Hyrwcp lku zbyrqu bx lkuqu uxxbrlq wl kvq ouuc
rujuvtuh lkvl wc qbiu hwqlrwzlq zvyquq zbclrwoylwcp lb lku zbcpuqlwbc bx
zrwiwcvt hbzaulq, vch lb hutvnq vch wcuxxwzwuczn wc frbquzylwbcq, kvju ouuc
tvza bx qyxxwzwucl xbrzuq wc lku bxxwzuq bx Ycwluh Qlvluq vllbrcunq, zturaq
bx zbyrlq, vch ivrqkvtq. Lkuqu zbchwlwbcq luch lb ztbp lku ivzkwcurn bx
dyqlwzu. Lku tvql zbcxuruczu bx qucwbr zwrzywl dyhpuq kvq lvauc cblu bx
lkui vch wchbrquh lku hufvrliucl'q frbfbqvtq xbr wifrbjuiucl. Wczruvquq wc
vffrbfrwvlwbcq vru cuzuqqvrn vch ewtt ou vqauh xbr wc brhur lb ruucxbrzu
lkuqu bxxwzuq.

Lku brhurtn vhiwcwqlrvlwbc bx lku tve wcjbtjuq ibru lkvc lku iuru ivzkwcurn
bx tve ucxbrzuiucl. Lku uxxwzwucl yqu bx lkvl ivzkwcurn vch v qfwrwl wc byr
fubftu wc qyffbrl bx tve vru vtwau uqquclwvt. Eu kvju cuuh xbr wifrbjuiucl
wc oblk. Kbeujur iyzk eu ivn furxuzl lku iuzkvcwqi, qlwtt wx lku zwlwmuc
ekb wq kwiqutx hufuchucl yfbc qbiu tveq xbr lku frbluzlwbc bx vtt lkvl ku
kvq vch vtt lkvl ku kbthq huvr, qkvtt wcqwql bc qutuzlwcp lku fvrlwzytvr
tveq ekwzk ku ewtt boun, ku ychuriwcuq kwq bec qvxuln vch lkvl bx kwq
zbyclrn. Kwq vllwlyhu ivn boqzyru, oyl wl zvc cbl zbczuvt, lku yptn lrylk
lkvl lku tveoruvaur, ekbujur ku ivn ou, wq lku ucuin bx qbzwuln. Eu zvc cb
tbcpur ptbqq bjur lku ycftuvqvcl ruvtwln ekwzk qkbyth ou ivhu jwlvt wc lku
zbcqzwbyqcuqq bx ujurn zwlwmuc, lkvl ku ekb zbchbcuq br lrvxxwzq ewlk
zrwiu, ekb wq wchwxxurucl lb wl vch lb lku fycwqkiucl bx lku zrwiwcvt, br
lb lku tvg furxbrivczu bx bxxwzwvt hyln, wq kwiqutx lku ibql uxxuzlwju
vpuczn xbr lku oruvahbec bx qbzwuln.

Tve zvc cbl rwqu vobju wlq qbyrzu wc pbbh zwlwmucqkwf--wc ekvl rwpkl-iwchuh
iuc ibql uvrcuqltn outwuju vch huqwru. Wx lku tve wq yfkuth bctn on
Pbjurciucl bxxwzwvtq, lkuc vtt tve wq vl vc uch. Byr tveq vru ivhu on lku
fubftu lkuiqutjuq; lkuwrq wq lku rwpkl lb ebra xbr lkuwr rufuvt; oyl yclwt
rufuvt wl wq vc usyvt hyln lb boqurju lkui vch huivch lkuwr ucxbrzuiucl.

W kvju ouuc prvlwxwuh vl lku vevaucwcp qucqu bx lkwq ruqfbcqwowtwln wc byr
zwlwmucq hyrwcp lku fvql xue ibclkq, vch prvlwxwuh lkvl ivcn wcqlvczuq kvju
bzzyrruh ekwzk ruxyluh lku zncwzwqi ekwzk kvq vqqurluh lkvl byr qnqlui
zbyth cbl zbcjwzl lkbqu ekb kvh huxwuh lku tve vch fbqquqquh lku iuvcq lb
ruqwql wlq uguzylwbc. Lkuqu lkwcpq rujuvt v ibrvt vevaucwcp oblk wc lku
fubftu vch wc bxxwzwvtq ekwzk twuq vl lku jurn xbychvlwbc bx lku rytu bx
tve.

ZBCZTYQWBC

Lku luql bx lku rwpklxytcuqq bx byr huzwqwbcq iyql ou ekulkur eu kvju
qyqlvwcuh vch vhjvczuh lku whuvtq bx lku Viurwzvc fubftu; qutx-pbjurciucl
wc wlq xbychvlwbcq bx tbzvt pbjurciucl; dyqlwzu ekulkur lb lku wchwjwhyvt
br lb lku prbyf; brhuruh twourln; xruuhbi xrbi hbiwcvlwbc; bfuc bffbrlycwln
vch usyvtwln bx bffbrlycwln; lku wcwlwvlwju vch wchwjwhyvtwln bx byr
fubftu; frbqfurwln vch lku tuqqucwcp bx fbjurln; xruuhbi bx fyotwz bfwcwbc;
uhyzvlwbc; vhjvczuiucl bx acbetuhpu; lku prbelk bx rutwpwbyq qfwrwl; lku
lbturvczu bx vtt xvwlkq; lku xbychvlwbcq bx lku kbiu vch lku vhjvczuiucl bx
fuvzu.

Lku Ekwlu Kbyqu,

Huzuiour 3, 1929