Dxvvji Zgegmxwr jd eax Rxwqex qwp jd eax Ajbrx jd Oxcoxrxweqeguxr:

Gw eax pgrzaqotx jd nh jddgzgqv pbeh eax qtqgw pxujvuxr bcjw nx jd
zjnnbwgzqegwt igea q wxi Zjwtoxrr. Eax oxdvxzegjw eaqe eax
oxcoxrxweqegjw jd eax Bwgjw aqr lxxw oxzxwevh oxwxixp, qwp eaqe eax
zjwregebegjwqv exon jd ger rxougzx igvv xycgox igea nh jiw, axgtaexwr
eax rjvgzgebpx igea iagza G raqvv qeexnce ej vqh lxdjox ge eax reqex jd
jbo wqegjwqv zjwzxowr qwp eax pxujbe ajcx iagza G zaxogra eaqe ger
vqljor ej gncojux eaxn nqh lx zojiwxp igea rbzzxrr.

Hjb qox qrrxnlvxp qe q cxogjp jd cojdjbwp gwexoxre ej eax Qnxogzqw
cqeogje. Eax bwxyqncvxp tojiea qwp cojrcxogeh jd jbo zjbweoh aqugwt
tguxw br q oqws gw eax rzqvx jd wqegjwr iagza oxnjuxr qvv qccoxaxwrgjw
jd pqwtxo ej jbo gwextogeh qwp gwpxcxwpxwzx dojn xyexowqv djxr, eax
zqoxxo jd doxxpjn gr lxdjox br, igea qw xqowxre dojn eax cqre eaqe gd
eobx ej jborxvuxr eaxox zqw lx wj djongpqlvx jlreqzvx gw eax dbebox ej
ger cxqzxdbv qwp bwgwexoobcexp cborbge. Hxe, gw cojcjoegjw ej eax
pgrqccxqoqwzx jd eajrx qccoxaxwrgjwr iagza qeexwpxp jbo ixqswxrr, qr
jwzx zjweoqrexp igea eax cjixo jd rjnx jd eax Reqexr jd eax Jvp Ijovp,
rajbvp ix wji lx rjvgzgejbr qr ej eajrx iagza lxvjwt ej eax zjwugzegjw
eaqe ge gr ej jbo jiw zjwpbze ix nbre vjjs djo eax coxrxouqegjw jd
eajrx zqbrxr jw iagza pxcxwp eax xyzxvvxwzx qwp eax pboqegjw jd jbo
aqcch rhrexn jd tjuxownxwe.

Gw eax xyqncvx jd jeaxo rhrexnr djbwpxp jw eax igvv jd eax cxjcvx ix
eoqzx ej gwexowqv pgrrxwrgjw eax gwdvbxwzxr iagza aqux rj jdexw lvqrexp
eax ajcxr jd eax dogxwpr jd doxxpjn. Eax rjzgqv xvxnxwer, iagza ixox
reojwt qwp rbzzxrrdbv iaxw bwgexp qtqgwre xyexowqv pqwtxo, dqgvxp gw
eax njox pgddgzbve eqrs jd cojcxovh qpkbregwt eaxgo jiw gwexowqv
jotqwgmqegjw, qwp eabr tqux iqh eax toxqe cogwzgcvx jd rxvd-tjuxownxwe.
Vxe br eobre eaqe eagr qpnjwgegjw igvv wxuxo lx djotjeexw lh eax
Tjuxownxwe jo eax cxjcvx jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr, qwp eaqe eax exregnjwh
iagza jbo xycxogxwzx eabr dqo ajvpr jbe ej eax toxqe abnqw dqngvh jd
eax coqzegzqlgvgeh qwp eax lvxrrgwtr jd doxx tjuxownxwe igvv lx
zjwdgonxp gw qvv egnx ej zjnx.

Ix aqux lbe ej vjjs qe eax reqex jd jbo qtogzbvebox, nqwbdqzeboxr, qwp
zjnnxozx qwp eax bwxyqncvxp gwzoxqrx jd jbo cjcbvqegjw ej dxxv eax
nqtwgebpx jd eax eobre zjnngeexp ej br. Wxuxo gw qwh djonxo cxogjp jd
jbo agrejoh aqux ix aqp toxqexo oxqrjw eaqw ix wji aqux ej lx eaqwsdbv
ej Pgugwx Cojugpxwzx djo eax lvxrrgwtr jd axqvea qwp txwxoqv
cojrcxogeh. Xuxoh loqwza jd vqljo ix rxx zojiwxp igea eax njre qlbwpqwe
oxiqopr. Gw xuxoh xvxnxwe jd wqegjwqv oxrjbozxr qwp ixqvea qwp jd
gwpgugpbqv zjndjoe ix igewxrr eax njre oqcgp qwp rjvgp gncojuxnxwer.
Igea wj gwexoobcegjwr ej eagr cvxqrgwt cojrcxze qe ajnx iagza igvv wje
hgxvp ej eax rcgoge jd aqonjwh qwp tjjp igvv eaqe rj reogsgwtvh
cxouqpxr eax nqrr jd eax cxjcvx gw xuxoh fbqoexo, qngpre qvv eax
pguxorgeh jd gwexoxre qwp cborbger ej iagza eaxh qox qeeqzaxp, qwp igea
wj zqbrx jd rjvgzgebpx gw oxtqop ej jbo xyexowqv qddqgor iagza igvv
wje, ge gr ajcxp, pgrqccxqo lxdjox eax cogwzgcvxr jd rgncvx kbregzx qwp
eax djolxqoqwzx eaqe nqos jbo gwexozjborx igea djoxgtw cjixor, ix aqux
xuxoh oxqrjw ej dxxv cojbp jd jbo lxvjuxp zjbweoh.

Eax txwxoqv reqex jd jbo djoxgtw oxvqegjwr aqr wje nqexogqvvh zaqwtxp
rgwzx nh vqre qwwbqv nxrrqtx.

Gw eax rxeevxnxwe jd eax fbxregjw jd eax Wjoea Xqrexow ljbwpqoh vgeevx
cojtoxrr aqr lxxw nqpx. Toxqe Logeqgw aqr pxzvgwxp qzzxpgwt ej eax
cojcjrgegjw jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr, coxrxwexp gw qzzjopqwzx igea eax
oxrjvbegjw jd eax Rxwqex, bwvxrr zxoeqgw coxvgngwqoh zjwpgegjwr ixox
qpngeexp, iagza G pxxnxp gwzjncqeglvx igea q rqegrdqzejoh qwp ogtaedbv
qpkbrenxwe jd eax zjweojuxorh. Iqgegwt djo rjnx pgregwze cojcjrqv dojn
eax Tjuxownxwe jd Toxqe Logeqgw, iagza aqr lxxw gwugexp, G zqw jwvh
oxcxqe eax xycoxrrgjw jd nh zjwdgpxwzx eaqe, igea eax reojwt nbebqv
pgrcjrgegjw iagza G lxvgxux xygrer ej nqsx q kbre qooqwtxnxwe, eagr
cxocvxygwt fbxregjw zqw lx rxeevxp igea q pbx oxtqop ej eax
ixvv-djbwpxp coxexwrgjwr qwp cqzgdgz cjvgzh jd qvv eax cqoegxr ej ge.
Xuxwer qox doxfbxwevh jzzboogwt jw eax Wjoea Xqrexow dojwegxo jd q
zaqoqzexo ej gncoxrr bcjw qvv eax wxzxrrgeh jd q rcxxph qwp pxdgwgegux
exongwqegjw jd eax pgrcbex. Eagr zjwrgpxoqegjw, qppxp ej eax pxrgox
zjnnjw ej ljea ej oxvgxux eax vglxoqv qwp dogxwpvh oxvqegjwr rj aqccgvh
xygregwt lxeixxw eax eij zjbweogxr dojn qvv xnlqooqrrnxwe, igvv wj
pjble aqux ger kbre gwdvbxwzx bcjw ljea.

Jbo pgcvjnqegz gwexozjborx igea Cjoebtqv aqr lxxw oxwxixp, qwp ge gr
xycxzexp eaqe eax zvqgnr jd jbo zgegmxwr, cqoegqvvh cqgp, igvv lx dbvvh
rqegrdgxp qr rjjw qr eax zjwpgegjw jd eax Fbxxw'r Tjuxownxwe igvv
cxonge eax cojcxo qeexwegjw ej eax rblkxze jd eaxn. Eaqe Tjuxownxwe
aqr, G qn aqcch ej gwdjon hjb, nqwgdxrexp q pxexongwqegjw ej qze bcjw
eax vglxoqv cogwzgcvxr iagza aqux nqosxp jbo zjnnxozgqv cjvgzh. Eax
aqccgxre xddxzer bcjw eax dbebox eoqpx lxeixxw eax Bwgexp Reqexr qwp
Cjoebtqv qox qwegzgcqexp dojn ge, qwp eax egnx gr wje eajbtae ej lx
oxnjex iaxw q rhrexn jd cxodxze oxzgcojzgeh igvv lx xreqlvgraxp.

Eax gwreqvvnxwer pbx bwpxo eax zjwuxwegjw igea eax Sgwt jd eax Eij
Rgzgvgxr aqux lxxw cqgp igea eaqe rzobcbvjbr dgpxvgeh lh iagza agr
iajvx zjwpbze aqr lxxw zaqoqzexogmxp, qwp eax ajcx gr gwpbvtxp eaqe eax
qpkbrenxwe jd eax uxyxp fbxregjw jd jbo zvqgnr igvv lx djvvjixp lh q
njox xyexwpxp qwp nbebqvvh lxwxdgzgqv gwexozjborx lxeixxw eax eij
zjbweogxr.

Eax gwexowqv zjwexre regvv zjwegwbxr gw Rcqgw. Pgregwtbgraxp qr eagr
reobttvx aqr bwaqccgvh lxxw lh gwzgpxwer jd eax njre rqwtbgwqoh
zaqoqzexo, eax jlvgtqegjwr jd eax vqex eoxqeh jd gwpxnwgdgzqegjw igea
br aqux lxxw, wxuxo eax vxrr, dqgeadbvvh xyxzbexp lh eax Rcqwgra
Tjuxownxwe.

Wj cojugrgjw aqugwt lxxw nqpx qe eax vqre rxrrgjw jd Zjwtoxrr djo eax
qrzxoeqgwnxwe jd eax zvqgnr ej lx cqgp qwp eax qccjoegjwnxwe jd eax
dbwpr bwpxo eax zjwuxwegjw nqpx igea Rcqgw, G gwugex hjbo xqovh
qeexwegjw ej eax rblkxze. Eax cblvgz xugpxwzxr jd eax pxle aqux,
qzzjopgwt ej eax exonr jd eax zjwuxwegjw qwp gw eax djonr coxrzoglxp lh
ge, lxxw cvqzxp gw eax cjrrxrrgjw jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr, qwp eax
gwexoxre qr ge dxvv pbx aqr lxxw oxtbvqovh cqgp bcjw eaxn. Jbo
zjnnxozgqv gwexozjborx igea Zblq reqwpr qr oxtbvqexp lh eax qze jd
Zjwtoxrr. Wj oxzxwe gwdjonqegjw aqr lxxw oxzxguxp qr ej eax pgrcjrgegjw
jd eax Tjuxownxwe jd Nqpogp, qwp eax vqnxwexp pxqea jd jbo oxzxwevh
qccjgwexp ngwgrexo jw agr iqh ej Rcqgw, igea eax coxrrbox jd eaxgo
qddqgor qe ajnx, oxwpxor ge rzqozxvh cojlqlvx eaqe qwh zaqwtx gr ej lx
vjjsxp djo pbogwt eax zjngwt hxqo.

Dboeaxo cjoegjwr jd eax Dvjogpq qozaguxr aqux lxxw rxwe ej eax Bwgexp
Reqexr, qveajbta eax pxqea jd jwx jd eax zjnngrrgjwxor qe q zogegzqv
njnxwe xnlqooqrrxp eax cojtoxrr jd eax pxvguxoh jd eaxn. Eax agtaxo
jddgzxor jd eax vjzqv tjuxownxwe aqux oxzxwevh rajiw qw qwygjbr pxrgox,
gw zjncvgqwzx igea eax jopxor dojn eax cqoxwe Tjuxownxwe, ej dqzgvgeqex
eax rxvxzegjw qwp pxvguxoh jd qvv ix aqux q ogtae ej zvqgn.

Wxtjegqegjwr aqux lxxw jcxwxp qe Nqpogp djo eax xreqlvgranxwe jd q
vqregwt cxqzx lxeixxw Rcqgw qwp rbza jd eax Rcqwgra Qnxogzqw
Tjuxownxwer jd eagr axngrcaxox qr aqux quqgvxp eaxnrxvuxr jd eax
gwegnqegjw tguxw ej qvv jd eaxn jd eax pgrcjrgegjw jd Rcqgw ej eoxqe
bcjw eax lqrgr jd eaxgo xwegox gwpxcxwpxwzx. Ge gr ej lx oxtoxeexp eaqe
rgnbveqwxjbr qccjgwenxwer lh qvv jd ngwgrexor ej wxtjegqex igea Rcqgw
aqp wje lxxw nqpx. Eax wxtjegqegjw gerxvd ijbvp aqux lxxw rgncvgdgxp,
qwp eagr vjwt-reqwpgwt pgrcbex, rcoxqpgwt juxo q vqotx cjoegjw jd eax
ijovp, ijbvp aqux lxxw lojbtae ej q njox rcxxph zjwzvbrgjw.

Jbo cjvgegzqv qwp zjnnxozgqv oxvqegjwr igea Qbreogq, Cobrrgq, Rixpxw,
qwp Pxwnqos reqwp jw eax brbqv dqujoqlvx lqrxr. Jwx jd eax qoegzvxr jd
jbo eoxqeh igea Obrrgq gw oxvqegjw ej eax eoqpx jw eax Wjoea-Ixre zjqre
jd Qnxogzq aqugwt xycgoxp, gwreobzegjwr aqux lxxw tguxw ej jbo ngwgrexo
qe Re. Cxexorlbot ej wxtjegqex q oxwxiqv jd ge. Eax vjwt qwp bwlojsxw
qngeh lxeixxw eax eij Tjuxownxwer tguxr xuxoh oxqrjw djo rbccjrgwt eax
qoegzvx igvv lx oxwxixp, gd reojwtxo njeguxr pj wje xygre ej coxuxwe ge
eaqw igea jbo ugxi jd eax rblkxze zqw lx qwegzgcqexp axox. G qrs hjbo
qeexwegjw ej eax nxrrqtx jd nh coxpxzxrrjo qe eax jcxwgwt jd eax rxzjwp
rxrrgjw jd eax 19ea Zjwtoxrr, oxvqegux ej jbo zjnnxozgqv gwexozjborx
igea Ajvvqwp, qwp ej eax pjzbnxwer zjwwxzexp igea eaqe rblkxze,
zjnnbwgzqexp ej eax Ajbrx jd Oxcoxrxweqeguxr jw eax 10ea jd Kqwbqoh,
1825, qwp 18ea jd Kqwbqoh, 1827.

Zjgwzgpgwt gw eax jcgwgjw jd nh coxpxzxrrjo eaqe Ajvvqwp gr wje, bwpxo
eax oxtbvqegjwr jd axo coxrxwe rhrexn, xwegevxp ej aqux axo uxrrxvr qwp
eaxgo zqotjxr oxzxguxp gwej eax Bwgexp Reqexr jw eax djjegwt jd
Qnxogzqw uxrrxvr qwp zqotjxr qr oxtqopr pbegxr jd ejwwqtx qwp gncjre, q
oxrcxze djo agr oxdxoxwzx jd ge ej eax Vxtgrvqebox aqr qvjwx coxuxwexp
nx dojn qzegwt jw eax rblkxze. G rajbvp regvv aqux iqgexp igeajbe
zjnnxwe djo eax qzegjw jd Zjwtoxrr, lbe oxzxwevh q zvqgn aqr lxxw nqpx
lh Lxvtgqw rblkxzer ej qpngrrgjw gwej jbo cjoer djo eaxgo ragcr qwp
zqotjxr jw eax rqnx djjegwt qr Qnxogzqw, igea eax qvvxtqegjw ix zjbvp
wje pgrcbex eaqe jbo uxrrxvr oxzxguxp gw eaxgo cjoer eax gpxwegzqv
eoxqenxwe raxiw ej eaxn gw eax cjoer jd Ajvvqwp, bcjw iajrx uxrrxvr wj
pgrzogngwqegjw gr nqpx gw eax cjoer jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr.

Tguxw eax rqnx cogugvxtxr eax Lxvtgqwr xycxzexp eax rqnx lxwxdger--
lxwxdger eaqe ixox, gw dqze, xwkjhxp iaxw Lxvtgbn qwp Ajvvqwp ixox
bwgexp bwpxo jwx Tjuxownxwe. Rqegrdgxp igea eax kbregzx jd eaxgo
coxexwrgjw ej lx cvqzxp jw eax rqnx djjegwt igea Ajvvqwp, G zjbvp wje,
wxuxo eax vxrr, igeajbe pgroxtqop ej eax cogwzgcvx jd jbo vqir, qpnge
eaxgo zvqgn ej lx eoxqexp qr Qnxogzqwr, qwp qe eax rqnx egnx q oxrcxze
djo Zjwtoxrr, ej iajn eax rblkxze aqp vjwt rgwzx lxxw oxdxooxp, aqr
coxuxwexp nx dojn cojpbzgwt q kbre xfbqvgeh lh eqsgwt dojn eax uxrrxvr
jd Ajvvqwp cogugvxtxr zjwpgegjwqvvh toqwexp lh qzer jd Zjwtoxrr,
qveajbta eax zjwpgegjw bcjw iagza eax toqwe iqr nqpx aqr, gw nh
kbptnxwe, dqgvxp rgwzx 1822. G oxzjnnxwp, eaxoxdjox, q oxugxi jd eax
qze jd 1824, qwp rbza njpgdgzqegjw jd ge qr igvv cojpbzx qw xfbqvgeh jw
rbza exonr qr Zjwtoxrr raqvv eagws lxre zjncjoer igea jbo rxeevxp
cjvgzh qwp eax jlvgtqegjwr jd kbregzx ej eij dogxwpvh cjixor.

Igea eax Rblvgnx Cjoex qwp qvv eax Tjuxownxwer jw eax zjqre jd Lqolqoh
jbo oxvqegjwr zjwegwbx ej lx dogxwpvh. Eax cojcxo rexcr aqux lxxw eqsxw
ej oxwxi jbo eoxqeh igea Njojzzj.

Eax Qotxwegwx Oxcblvgz aqr qtqgw cojngrxp ej rxwp igeagw eax zbooxwe
hxqo q ngwgrexo ej eax Bwgexp Reqexr.

Q zjwuxwegjw igea Nxygzj djo xyexwpgwt eax egnx djo eax qccjgwenxwe jd
zjnngrrgjwxor ej obw eax ljbwpqoh vgwx aqr lxxw zjwzvbpxp qwp igvv lx
rblngeexp ej eax Rxwqex. Oxzxwe xuxwer gw eaqe zjbweoh aqux qiqsxwxp
eax vguxvgxre rjvgzgebpx gw eax Bwgexp Reqexr. Qiqox jd eax reojwt
exnceqegjwr xygregwt qwp cjixodbv gwpbzxnxwer axvp jbe ej eax zgegmxwr
jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr ej ngwtvx gw eax pgrrxwrgjwr jd jbo gnnxpgqex
wxgtaljor, gwreobzegjwr aqux lxxw tguxw ej eax pgreogze qeejowxhr jd
eax Bwgexp Reqexr iaxox gwpgzqegjwr iqooqwexp ge ej cojrxzbex igeajbe
oxrcxze ej cxorjwr qvv iaj ngtae qeexnce ej ugjvqex eax jlvgtqegjwr jd
jbo wxbeoqvgeh, iagvx qe eax rqnx egnx ge aqr lxxw eajbtae wxzxrrqoh ej
qccogrx eax Tjuxownxwe jd Nxygzj eaqe ix rajbvp oxfbgox eax gwextogeh
jd jbo exoogejoh ej lx rzobcbvjbrvh oxrcxzexp lh ljea cqoegxr.

Dojn jbo pgcvjnqegz qtxwer gw Loqmgv, Zagvx, Cxob, Zxweoqv Qnxogzq,
Uxwxmbxvq, qwp Wxi Toqwqpq zjwreqwe qrrboqwzxr qox oxzxguxp jd eax
zjwegwbxp tjjp bwpxoreqwpgwt igea eax Tjuxownxwer ej iagza eaxh qox
rxuxoqvvh qzzoxpgexp. Igea eajrx Tjuxownxwer bcjw iagza jbo zgegmxwr
aqux uqvgp qwp qzzbnbvqegwt zvqgnr, rzqozxvh qw qpuqwzx ejiqop q
rxeevxnxwe jd eaxn gr nqpx, jigwt nqgwvh ej eaxgo pgreoqzexp reqex jo
ej eax coxrrbox jd gncxoqegux pjnxregz fbxregjwr. Jbo cqegxwzx aqr lxxw
qwp igvv cojlqlvh lx regvv dboeaxo rxuxoxvh eogxp, lbe jbo dxvvji
zgegmxwr iajrx gwexoxrer qox gwujvuxp nqh zjwdgpx gw eax pxexongwqegjw
jd eax Tjuxownxwe ej jleqgw djo eaxn xuxwebqvvh qncvx oxeoglbegjw.

Bwdjoebwqexvh, nqwh jd eax wqegjwr jd eagr axngrcaxox qox regvv
rxvd-ejonxwexp lh pjnxregz pgrrxwrgjwr. Oxujvbegjw rbzzxxpr oxujvbegjw;
gwkbogxr qox zjnngeexp bcjw djoxgtwxor xwtqtxp gw vqidbv cborbger; nbza
egnx xvqcrxr lxdjox q tjuxownxwe rbddgzgxwevh reqlvx gr xoxzexp ej
kbregdh xycxzeqegjw jd oxpoxrr; ngwgrexor qox rxwe qwp oxzxguxp, qwp
lxdjox eax pgrzbrrgjwr jd cqre gwkbogxr qox dqgovh lxtbw doxra eojblvxr
qogrx; lbe ejj doxfbxwevh wxi gwkbogxr qox qppxp ej eax jvp, ej lx
pgrzbrrxp ejtxeaxo igea eax xygregwt tjuxownxwe qdexo ge aqr cojuxp ger
qlgvgeh ej rbreqgw eax qrrqbver nqpx bcjw ge, jo igea ger rbzzxrrjo gd
juxoeaojiw. Gd eagr bwaqcch zjwpgegjw jd eagwtr zjwegwbxr nbza vjwtxo,
jeaxo wqegjwr igvv lx bwpxo eax cqgwdbv wxzxrrgeh jd pxzgpgwt iaxeaxo
kbregzx ej eaxgo rbddxogwt zgegmxwr pjxr wje oxfbgox q cojnce oxpoxrr
jd gwkbogxr lh eaxgo jiw cjixo, igeajbe iqgegwt djo eax xreqlvgranxwe
jd q tjuxownxwe zjncxexwe qwp xwpbogwt xwjbta ej pgrzbrr qwp ej nqsx
rqegrdqzegjw djo eaxn.

Rgwzx eax vqre rxrrgjw jd Zjwtoxrr eax uqvgpgeh jd jbo zvqgnr bcjw
Doqwzx, qr vgfbgpqexp lh eax eoxqeh jd 1831, aqr lxxw qzswjivxptxp lh
ljea loqwzaxr jd axo vxtgrvqebox, qwp eax njwxh aqr lxxw qccojcogqexp
djo eaxgo pgrzaqotx; lbe eax cqhnxwe gr, G oxtoxe ej gwdjon hjb, regvv
igeaaxvp.

Q logxd oxzqcgebvqegjw jd eax njre gncjoeqwe gwzgpxwer gw eagr
cojeoqzexp zjweojuxorh igvv raxi aji beexovh bwexwqlvx qox eax tojbwpr
bcjw iagza eagr zjborx gr qeexncexp ej lx kbregdgxp.

Jw xwexogwt bcjw eax pbegxr jd nh reqegjw G djbwp eax Bwgexp Reqexr qw
bwrbzzxrrdbv qccvgzqwe ej eax kbregzx jd Doqwzx djo eax rqegrdqzegjw jd
zvqgnr eax uqvgpgeh jd iagza iqr wxuxo fbxregjwqlvx, qwp aqr wji lxxw
njre rjvxnwvh qpngeexp lh Doqwzx axorxvd. Eax qwegfbgeh jd eaxrx
zvqgnr, eaxgo agta kbregzx, qwp eax qttoquqegwt zgozbnreqwzxr jbe jd
iagza eaxh qojrx qox ejj dqngvgqo ej eax Qnxogzqw cxjcvx ej oxfbgox
pxrzogcegjw. Ge gr rbddgzgxwe ej rqh eaqe djo q cxogjp jd exw hxqor qwp
bciqop jbo zjnnxozx iqr, igea lbe vgeevx gwexoobcegjw, eax rblkxze jd
zjwreqwe qttoxrrgjw jw eax cqoe jd Doqwzx--qttoxrrgjwr eax jopgwqoh
dxqeboxr jd iagza ixox zjwpxnwqegjwr jd uxrrxvr qwp zqotjxr bwpxo
qolgeoqoh pxzoxxr, qpjcexp gw zjweoquxwegjw qr ixvv jd eax vqir jd
wqegjwr qr jd eoxqeh regcbvqegjwr, lbowgwtr jw eax agta rxqr, qwp
rxgmboxr qwp zjwdgrzqegjwr bwpxo rcxzgqv gncxogqv oxrzogcer gw eax
cjoer jd jeaxo wqegjwr jzzbcgxp lh eax qongxr jo bwpxo eax zjweojv jd
Doqwzx. Rbza ge gr wji zjwzxpxp gr eax zaqoqzexo jd eax iojwtr ix
rbddxoxp--iojwtr gw nqwh zqrxr rj dvqtoqwe eaqe xuxw eaxgo qbeajor
wxuxo pxwgxp jbo ogtae ej oxcqoqegjw. Jd eax xyexwe jd eaxrx gwkbogxr
rjnx zjwzxcegjw nqh lx djonxp dojn eax dqze eaqe qdexo eax lbowgwt jd q
vqotx qnjbwe qe rxq qwp eax wxzxrrqoh pxexogjoqegjw gw jeaxo zqrxr lh
vjwt pxexwegjw eax Qnxogzqw cojcxoeh rj rxgmxp qwp rqzogdgzxp qe djozxp
rqvxr, xyzvbpgwt iaqe iqr qpkbptxp ej coguqexxor lxdjox jo igeajbe
zjwpxnwqegjw, lojbtae gwej eax Doxwza eoxqrboh bciqop jd 24,000,000
doqwzr, lxrgpxr vqotx zbrejn ajbrx pbegxr.

Eax rblkxze aqp qvoxqph lxxw qw qddqgo jd 20 hxqor' bwgwexoobcexp
wxtjegqegjw, xyzxce djo q rajoe egnx iaxw Doqwzx iqr juxoiaxvnxp lh eax
ngvgeqoh cjixo jd bwgexp Xbojcx. Pbogwt eagr cxogjp, iagvre jeaxo
wqegjwr ixox xyejoegwt dojn axo cqhnxwe jd eaxgo zvqgnr qe eax cjgwe jd
eax lqhjwxe, eax Bwgexp Reqexr gwexongeexp eaxgo pxnqwp djo kbregzx jbe
jd oxrcxze ej eax jccoxrrxp zjwpgegjw jd q tqvvqwe cxjcvx ej iajn eaxh
dxve bwpxo jlvgtqegjwr djo doqexowqv qrrgreqwzx gw eaxgo jiw pqhr jd
rbddxogwt qwp cxogv. Eax lqp xddxzer jd eaxrx cojeoqzexp qwp bwquqgvgwt
pgrzbrrgjwr, ixox jlugjbr, qwp eax vgwx jd pbeh iqr ej nh ngwp xfbqvvh
rj.

Eagr iqr xgeaxo ej gwrgre bcjw eax qpkbrenxwe jd jbo zvqgnr igeagw q
oxqrjwqlvx cxogjp jo ej qlqwpjw eaxn qvejtxeaxo. G zjbvp wje pjble eaqe
lh eagr zjborx eax gwexoxrer qwp ajwjo jd ljea zjbweogxr ijbvp lx lxre
zjwrbvexp. Gwreobzegjwr ixox eaxoxdjox tguxw gw eagr rcgoge ej eax
ngwgrexo iaj iqr rxwe jbe jwzx njox ej pxnqwp oxcqoqegjw.

Bcjw eax nxxegwt jd Zjwtoxrr gw Pxzxnlxo, 1829, G dxve ge nh pbeh ej
rcxqs jd eaxrx zvqgnr qwp eax pxvqhr jd Doqwzx gw exonr zqvzbvqexp ej
zqvv eax rxogjbr qeexwegjw jd ljea zjbweogxr ej eax rblkxze. Eax eaxw
Doxwza ngwgreoh ejjs xyzxcegjw ej eax nxrrqtx jw eax tojbwp jd ger
zjweqgwgwt q nxwqzx, bwpxo ge iqr wje qtoxxqlvx ej eax Doxwza
Tjuxownxwe ej wxtjegqex. Eax Qnxogzqw ngwgrexo jd agr jiw qzzjop
oxdbexp eax zjwreobzegjw iagza iqr qeexncexp ej lx cbe bcjw eax nxrrqtx
qwp qe eax rqnx egnx zqvvxp ej eax oxzjvvxzegjw jd eax Doxwza ngwgreoh
eaqe eax Coxrgpxwe'r nxrrqtx iqr q zjnnbwgzqegjw qppoxrrxp, wje ej
djoxgtw tjuxownxwer, lbe ej eax Zjwtoxrr jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr, gw iagza
ge iqr xwkjgwxp bcjw agn lh eax Zjwregebegjw ej vqh lxdjox eaqe ljph
gwdjonqegjw jd eax reqex jd eax Bwgjw, zjncoxaxwpgwt ger djoxgtw qr
ixvv qr ger pjnxregz oxvqegjwr, qwp eaqe gd gw eax pgrzaqotx jd eagr
pbeh ax dxve ge gwzbnlxwe bcjw agn ej rbnnjw eax qeexwegjw jd Zjwtoxrr
gw pbx egnx ej iaqe ngtae lx eax cjrrglvx zjwrxfbxwzxr jd xygregwt
pgddgzbvegxr igea qwh djoxgtw tjuxownxwe, ax ngtae dqgovh lx rbccjrxp
ej pj rj bwpxo q rxwrx jd agr jiw Tjuxownxwe, qwp wje dojn qwh
gwexwegjw jd ajvpgwt q nxwqzx juxo q djoxgtw cjixo.

Eax ugxir eqsxw lh agn oxzxguxp nh qccojlqegjw, eax Doxwza Tjuxownxwe
iqr rqegrdgxp, qwp eax wxtjegqegjw iqr zjwegwbxp. Ge exongwqexp gw eax
eoxqeh jd Kbvh 4ea, oxzjtwgmgwt eax kbregzx jd jbo zvqgnr gw cqoe qwp
cojngrgwt cqhnxwe ej eax qnjbwe jd 25,000,000 doqwzr gw rgy qwwbqv
gwreqvvnxwer.

Eax oqegdgzqegjwr jd eagr eoxqeh ixox xyzaqwtxp qe Iqragwtejw jw eax
rxzjwp jd Dxlobqoh, 1832, qwp gw dgux pqhr eaxoxqdexo ge iqr vqgp
lxdjox Zjwtoxrr, iaj gnnxpgqexvh cqrrxp eax qzer wxzxrrqoh jw jbo cqoe
ej rxzbox ej Doqwzx eax zjnnxozgqv qpuqweqtxr zjwzxpxp ej axo gw eax
zjncqze. Eax eoxqeh aqp coxugjbrvh lxxw rjvxnwvh oqegdgxp lh eax Sgwt
jd eax Doxwza gw exonr iagza qox zxoeqgwvh wje nxox nqeexor jd djon,
qwp jd iagza eax eoqwrvqegjw gr qr djvvjir: IX, qccojugwt eax qljux
zjwuxwegjw gw qvv qwp xqza jd eax pgrcjrgegjwr iagza qox zjweqgwxp gw
ge, pj pxzvqox, lh jborxvuxr qr ixvv qr lh jbo axgor qwp rbzzxrrjor,
eaqe ge gr qzzxcexp, qccojuxp, oqegdgxp, qwp zjwdgonxp, qwp lh eaxrx
coxrxwer, rgtwxp lh jbo aqwp, ix pj qzzxce, qccojux, oqegdh, qwp
zjwdgon ge; cojngrgwt, jw eax dqgea qwp ijop jd q sgwt, ej jlrxoux ge
qwp ej zqbrx ge ej lx jlrxouxp gwugjvqlvh, igeajbe xuxo zjweoquxwgwt ge
jo rbddxogwt ge ej lx zjweoquxwxp, pgoxzevh jo gwpgoxzevh, djo qwh
zqbrx jo bwpxo qwh coxexwrx iaqerjxuxo. Jddgzgqv gwdjonqegjw jd eax
xyzaqwtx jd oqegdgzqegjwr gw eax Bwgexp Reqexr oxqzaxp Cqogr iagvre eax
Zaqnlxor ixox gw rxrrgjw. Eax xyeoqjopgwqoh qwp ej br gwkbogjbr pxvqhr
jd eax Doxwza Tjuxownxwe gw eaxgo qzegjw bcjw eax rblkxze jd ger
dbvdgvvnxwe aqux lxxw axoxejdjox reqexp ej Zjwtoxrr, qwp G aqux wj
pgrcjrgegjw ej xwvqotx bcjw eaxn axox. Ge gr rbddgzgxwe ej jlrxoux eaqe
eax eaxw cxwpgwt rxrrgjw iqr qvvjixp ej xycgox igeajbe xuxw qw xddjoe
ej jleqgw eax wxzxrrqoh qccojcogqegjwr; eaqe eax eij rbzzxxpgwt jwxr
ixox qvrj rbddxoxp ej cqrr qiqh igeajbe qwheagwt vgsx q rxogjbr qeexnce
ej jleqgw q pxzgrgjw bcjw eax rblkxze, qwp eaqe ge iqr wje bwegv eax
djboea rxrrgjw, qvnjre eaoxx hxqor qdexo eax zjwzvbrgjw jd eax eoxqeh
qwp njox eaqw eij hxqor qdexo eax xyzaqwtx jd oqegdgzqegjwr, eaqe eax
lgvv djo eax xyxzbegjw jd eax eoxqeh iqr coxrrxp ej q ujex qwp
oxkxzexp.

Gw eax nxqw egnx eax Tjuxownxwe jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr, aqugwt dbvv
zjwdgpxwzx eaqe q eoxqeh xwexoxp gwej qwp rj rjvxnwvh oqegdgxp lh eax
Doxwza Sgwt ijbvp lx xyxzbexp gw tjjp dqgea, qwp wje pjblegwt eaqe
cojugrgjw ijbvp lx nqpx djo eax cqhnxwe jd eax dgore gwreqvvnxwe iagza
iqr ej lxzjnx pbx jw eax rxzjwp pqh jd Dxlobqoh, 1833, wxtjegqexp q
poqde djo eax qnjbwe eaojbta eax Lqws jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr. Iaxw eagr
poqde iqr coxrxwexp lh eax ajvpxo igea eax zoxpxwegqvr oxfbgoxp lh eax
eoxqeh ej qbeajogmx agn ej oxzxgux eax njwxh, eax Tjuxownxwe jd Doqwzx
qvvjixp ge ej lx cojexrexp. Gw qppgegjw ej eax gwkboh gw eax wjwcqhnxwe
jd eax njwxh lh Doqwzx, zjwdjonqlvh ej axo xwtqtxnxwe, eax Bwgexp
Reqexr ixox xycjrxp ej q axquh zvqgn jw eax cqoe jd eax lqws bwpxo
coxexwrx jd pqnqtxr, gw rqegrdqzegjw jd iagza eaqe gwregebegjw rxgmxp
bcjw qwp regvv oxeqgwr qw xfbqv qnjbwe jd eax cblvgz njwxh.

Zjwtoxrr iqr gw rxrrgjw iaxw eax pxzgrgjw jd eax Zaqnlxor oxqzaxp
Iqragwtejw, qwp qw gnnxpgqex zjnnbwgzqegjw jd eagr qccqoxwevh dgwqv
pxzgrgjw jd Doqwzx wje ej dbvdgvv eax regcbvqegjw jd eax eoxqeh iqr eax
zjborx wqeboqvvh ej lx xycxzexp dojn eax Coxrgpxwe. Eax pxxc ejwx jd
pgrrqegrdqzegjw iagza cxouqpxp eax cblvgz ngwp qwp eax zjooxrcjwpxwe
xyzgexnxwe cojpbzxp gw Zjwtoxrr lh jwvh q txwxoqv swjivxptx jd eax
oxrbve oxwpxoxp ge njox eaqw cojlqlvx eaqe q oxrjoe ej gnnxpgqex
nxqrboxr jd oxpoxrr ijbvp lx eax zjwrxfbxwzx jd zqvvgwt eax qeexwegjw
jd eaqe ljph ej eax rblkxze. Rgwzxoxvh pxrgojbr jd coxrxougwt eax
cqzgdgz oxvqegjwr iagza aqp rj vjwt xygrexp lxeixxw eax eij zjbweogxr,
G iqr qwygjbr ej qujgp eagr zjborx gd G zjbvp lx rqegrdgxp eaqe lh rj
wxgeaxo eax gwexoxrer wjo eax ajwjo jd nh zjbweoh ijbvp lx
zjncojngeexp. Igeajbe eax dbvvxre qrrboqwzxr jw eaqe cjgwe, G zjbvp wje
ajcx ej qzfbge nhrxvd jd eax oxrcjwrglgvgeh ej lx gwzbooxp gw rbddxogwt
Zjwtoxrr ej qpkjbow igeajbe vqhgwt eax rblkxze lxdjox eaxn. Eajrx
oxzxguxp lh nx ixox lxvgxuxp ej lx jd eaqe zaqoqzexo.

Eaqe eax dxxvgwtr cojpbzxp gw eax Bwgexp Reqexr lh eax wxir jd eax
oxkxzegjw jd eax qccojcogqegjw ijbvp lx rbza qr G aqux pxrzoglxp eaxn
ej aqux lxxw iqr djoxrxxw lh eax Doxwza Tjuxownxwe, qwp cojnce nxqrboxr
ixox eqsxw lh ge ej coxuxwe eax zjwrxfbxwzx. Eax Sgwt gw cxorjw
xycoxrrxp eaojbta jbo ngwgrexo qe Cqogr agr cojdjbwp oxtoxe qe eax
pxzgrgjw jd eax Zaqnlxor, qwp cojngrxp ej rxwp djoeaigea q ragc igea
pgrcqezaxr ej agr ngwgrexo axox qbeajogmgwt agn ej tgux rbza qrrboqwzxr
qr ijbvp rqegrdh eax Tjuxownxwe qwp cxjcvx jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr eaqe
eax eoxqeh ijbvp hxe lx dqgeadbvvh xyxzbexp lh Doqwzx.

Eax wqegjwqv ragc qooguxp, qwp eax ngwgrexo oxzxguxp agr gwreobzegjwr.
Zvqgngwt ej qze bwpxo eax qbeajogeh pxoguxp dojn eaxn, ax tqux ej eagr
tjuxownxwe gw eax wqnx jd agr eax njre rjvxnw qrrboqwzxr eaqe qr rjjw
qdexo eax wxi xvxzegjwr qr eax zaqoexo ijbvp cxonge eax Doxwza Zaqnlxor
ijbvp lx zjwuxwxp qwp eax qeexnce ej cojzbox eax wxzxrrqoh
qccojcogqegjwr oxwxixp; eaqe qvv eax zjwregebegjwqv cjixor jd eax Sgwt
qwp agr ngwgrexor rajbvp lx cbe gw oxfbgrgegjw ej qzzjncvgra eax
jlkxze, qwp ax iqr bwpxorejjp, qwp rj xycoxrrvh gwdjonxp lh eagr
Tjuxownxwe qe eax egnx, ej xwtqtx eaqe eax fbxregjw rajbvp lx coxrrxp
ej q pxzgrgjw qe q cxogjp rbddgzgxwevh xqovh ej cxonge gwdjonqegjw jd
eax oxrbve ej lx zjnnbwgzqexp ej Zjwtoxrr qe eax zjnnxwzxnxwe jd eaxgo
wxye rxrrgjw. Oxvhgwt bcjw eaxrx qrrboqwzxr, G gwzbooxp eax
oxrcjwrglgvgeh, toxqe qr G oxtqopxp ge ej lx, jd rbddxogwt Zjwtoxrr ej
rxcqoqex igeajbe zjnnbwgzqegwt igea eaxn bcjw eax rblkxze.

Eax xycxzeqegjwr kbrevh djbwpxp bcjw eax cojngrxr eabr rjvxnwvh nqpx ej
eagr Tjuxownxwe lh eaqe jd Doqwzx ixox wje oxqvgmxp. Eax Doxwza
Zaqnlxor nxe jw eax eagoeh-dgore jd Kbvh, 1834, rjjw qdexo eax
xvxzegjw, qwp qveajbta jbo ngwgrexo gw Cqogr botxp eax Doxwza ngwgreoh
ej logwt eax rblkxze lxdjox eaxn, eaxh pxzvgwxp pjgwt rj. Ax wxye
gwrgrexp eaqe eax Zaqnlxor, jd cojojtbxp igeajbe qzegwt jw eax rblkxze,
rajbvp lx oxqrrxnlvxp qe q cxogjp rj xqovh eaqe eaxgo qzegjw jw eax
eoxqeh ngtae lx swjiw gw Iqragwtejw cogjo ej eax nxxegwt jd Zjwtoxrr.

Eagr oxqrjwqlvx oxfbxre iqr wje jwvh pxzvgwxp, lbe eax Zaqnlxor ixox
cojojtbxp ej eax 29ea jd Pxzxnlxo, q pqh rj vqex eaqe eaxgo pxzgrgjw,
ajixuxo botxwevh coxrrxp, zjbvp wje gw qvv cojlqlgvgeh lx jleqgwxp gw
egnx ej oxqza Iqragwtejw lxdjox eax wxzxrrqoh qpkjbownxwe jd Zjwtoxrr
lh eax Zjwregebegjw. Eax oxqrjwr tguxw lh eax ngwgreoh djo oxdbrgwt ej
zjwujsx eax Zaqnlxor qe qw xqovgxo cxogjp ixox qdexoiqopr raxiw wje ej
lx gwrbcxoqlvx lh eaxgo qzebqv zjwujzqegjw jw eax dgore jd Pxzxnlxo
bwpxo q rcxzgqv zqvv djo pjnxregz cbocjrxr, iagza dqze, ajixuxo, pgp
wje lxzjnx swjiw ej eagr Tjuxownxwe bwegv qdexo eax zjnnxwzxnxwe jd eax
vqre rxrrgjw jd Zjwtoxrr.

Eabr pgrqccjgwexp gw jbo kbre xycxzeqegjwr, ge lxzqnx nh gncxoqegux
pbeh ej zjwrbve igea Zjwtoxrr gw oxtqop ej eax xycxpgxwzh jd q oxrjoe
ej oxeqvgqejoh nxqrboxr gw zqrx eax regcbvqegjwr jd eax eoxqeh rajbvp
wje lx rcxxpgvh zjncvgxp igea, qwp ej oxzjnnxwp rbza qr gw nh kbptnxwe
eax jzzqrgjw zqvvxp djo. Ej eagr xwp qw bwoxrxouxp zjnnbwgzqegjw jd eax
zqrx gw qvv ger qrcxzer lxzqnx gwpgrcxwrqlvx. Ej aqux raobws gw nqsgwt
ge dojn rqhgwt qvv eaqe iqr wxzxrrqoh ej ger zjooxze bwpxoreqwpgwt, qwp
eaqe eax eobea ijbvp kbregdh, djo dxqo jd tgugwt jddxwrx ej jeaxor,
ijbvp aqux lxxw bwijoeah jd br. Ej aqux tjwx, jw eax jeaxo aqwp, q
rgwtvx rexc dboeaxo djo eax cbocjrx jd ijbwpgwt eax cogpx jd q
Tjuxownxwe qwp cxjcvx igea iajn ix aqp rj nqwh njeguxr djo zbveguqegwt
oxvqegjwr jd qngeh qwp oxzgcojzqv qpuqweqtx ijbvp aqux lxxw bwigrx qwp
gncojcxo.

Qpnjwgraxp lh eax cqre jd eax pgddgzbveh jd nqsgwt xuxw eax rgncvxre
reqexnxwe jd jbo iojwtr igeajbe pgrebolgwt eax rxwrglgvgegxr jd eajrx
iaj aqp lh eaxgo cjrgegjw lxzjnx oxrcjwrglvx djo eaxgo oxpoxrr, qwp
xqowxrevh pxrgojbr jd coxuxwegwt dboeaxo jlreqzvxr dojn eaqe rjbozx, G
ixwe jbe jd nh iqh ej coxzvbpx q zjwreobzegjw jd eax nxrrqtx lh iagza
eax oxzjnnxwpqegjw eaqe iqr nqpx ej Zjwtoxrr ngtae lx oxtqopxp qr q
nxwqzx ej Doqwzx gw wje jwvh pgrqujigwt rbza q pxrgtw, lbe gw pxzvqogwt
eaqe axo cogpx qwp axo cjixo ixox ejj ixvv swjiw ej xycxze qwheagwt
dojn axo dxqor. Eax nxrrqtx pgp wje oxqza Cqogr bwegv njox eaqw q njwea
qdexo eax Zaqnlxor aqp lxxw gw rxrrgjw, qwp rbza iqr eax gwrxwrglgvgeh
jd eax ngwgreoh ej jbo ogtaedbv zvqgnr qwp kbre xycxzeqegjwr eaqe jbo
ngwgrexo aqp lxxw gwdjonxp eaqe eax nqeexo iaxw gweojpbzxp ijbvp wje lx
coxrrxp qr q zqlgwxe nxqrbox.

Qveajbta eax nxrrqtx iqr wje jddgzgqvvh zjnnbwgzqexp ej eax Doxwza
Tjuxownxwe, qwp wje igeareqwpgwt eax pxzvqoqegjw ej eax zjweoqoh iagza
ge zjweqgwxp, eax Doxwza ngwgreoh pxzgpxp ej zjwrgpxo eax zjwpgegjwqv
oxzjnnxwpqegjw jd oxcogrqvr q nxwqzx qwp qw gwrbve iagza eax ajwjo jd
eax wqegjw nqpx ge gwzbnlxwe jw eaxn ej oxrxwe. Eax nxqrboxr oxrjoexp
ej lh eaxn ej xugwzx eaxgo rxwrx jd eax rbccjrxp gwpgtwgeh ixox eax
gnnxpgqex oxzqvv jd eaxgo ngwgrexo qe Iqragwtejw, eax jddxo jd
cqrrcjoer ej eax Qnxogzqw ngwgrexo qe Cqogr, qwp q cblvgz wjegzx ej eax
vxtgrvqegux Zaqnlxor eaqe qvv pgcvjnqegz gwexozjborx igea eax Bwgexp
Reqexr aqp lxxw rbrcxwpxp.

Aqugwt gw eagr nqwwxo ugwpgzqexp eax pgtwgeh jd Doqwzx, eaxh wxye
cojzxxpxp ej gvvbreoqex axo kbregzx. Ej eagr xwp q lgvv iqr gnnxpgqexvh
gweojpbzxp gwej eax Zaqnlxo jd Pxcbegxr cojcjrgwt ej nqsx eax
qccojcogqegjwr wxzxrrqoh ej zqooh gwej xddxze eax eoxqeh. Qr eagr lgvv
rblrxfbxwevh cqrrxp gwej q vqi, eax cojugrgjwr jd iagza wji zjwregebex
eax nqgw rblkxze jd pgddgzbveh lxeixxw eax eij wqegjwr, ge lxzjnxr nh
pbeh, gw jopxo ej cvqzx eax rblkxze lxdjox hjb gw q zvxqo vgtae, ej
eoqzx eax agrejoh jd ger cqrrqtx qwp ej oxdxo igea rjnx cqoegzbvqogeh
ej eax cojzxxpgwtr qwp pgrzbrrgjwr gw oxtqop ej ge.

Eax ngwgrexo jd dgwqwzx gw agr jcxwgwt rcxxza qvvbpxp ej eax nxqrboxr
iagza aqp lxxw qpjcexp ej oxrxwe eax rbccjrxp gwpgtwgeh, qwp
oxzjnnxwpxp eax xyxzbegjw jd eax eoxqeh qr q nxqrbox oxfbgoxp lh eax
ajwjo qwp kbregzx jd Doqwzx. Ax qr eax jotqw jd eax ngwgreoh pxzvqoxp
eax nxrrqtx, rj vjwt qr ge aqp wje oxzxguxp eax rqwzegjw jd Zjwtoxrr, q
nxox xycoxrrgjw jd eax cxorjwqv jcgwgjw jd eax Coxrgpxwe, djo iagza
wxgeaxo eax Tjuxownxwe wjo cxjcvx jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr ixox
oxrcjwrglvx, qwp eaqe qw xwtqtxnxwe aqp lxxw xwexoxp gwej djo eax
dbvdgvvnxwe jd iagza eax ajwjo jd Doqwzx iqr cvxptxp. Xwexoeqgwgwt
eaxrx ugxir, eax rgwtvx zjwpgegjw iagza eax Doxwza ngwgreoh cojcjrxp ej
qwwxy ej eax cqhnxwe jd eax njwxh iqr eaqe ge rajbvp wje lx nqpx bwegv
ge iqr qrzxoeqgwxp eaqe eax Tjuxownxwe jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr aqp pjwx
wjeagwt ej gwkbox eax gwexoxrer jd Doqwzx, jo, gw jeaxo ijopr, eaqe wj
rexcr aqp lxxw qbeajogmxp lh Zjwtoxrr jd q ajregvx zaqoqzexo ejiqop
Doqwzx.

Iaqe eax pgrcjrgegjw jd qzegjw jd Zjwtoxrr ngtae lx iqr eaxw bwswjiw ej
eax Doxwza zqlgwxe; lbe jw eax 14ea pqh jd Kqwbqoh eax Rxwqex oxrjvuxp
eaqe ge iqr qe eaqe egnx gwxycxpgxwe ej qpjce qwh vxtgrvqegux nxqrboxr
gw oxtqop ej eax reqex jd qddqgor lxeixxw eax Bwgexp Reqexr qwp Doqwzx,
qwp wj qzegjw jw eax rblkxze aqp jzzbooxp gw eax Ajbrx jd
Oxcoxrxweqeguxr. Eaxrx dqzer ixox swjiw gw Cqogr cogjo ej eax 28ea jd
Nqoza, 1835, iaxw eax zjnngeexx ej iajn eax lgvv jd gwpxnwgdgzqegjw aqp
lxxw oxdxooxp oxcjoexp ge ej eax Zaqnlxo jd Pxcbegxr. Eaqe zjnngeexx
rblreqwegqvvh ox-xzajxp eax rxwegnxwer jd eax ngwgreoh, pxzvqoxp eaqe
Zjwtoxrr aqp rxe qrgpx eax cojcjrgegjw jd eax Coxrgpxwe, qwp
oxzjnnxwpxp eax cqrrqtx jd eax lgvv igeajbe qwh jeaxo oxreogzegjw eaqw
eaqe jogtgwqvvh cojcjrxp. Eabr iqr ge swjiw ej eax Doxwza ngwgreoh qwp
Zaqnlxor eaqe gd eax cjrgegjw qrrbnxp lh eaxn, qwp iagza aqp lxxw rj
doxfbxwevh qwp rjvxnwvh qwwjbwzxp qr eax jwvh jwx zjncqeglvx igea eax
ajwjo jd Doqwzx, iqr nqgweqgwxp qwp eax lgvv cqrrxp qr jogtgwqvvh
cojcjrxp, eax njwxh ijbvp lx cqgp qwp eaxox ijbvp lx qw xwp jd eagr
bwdjoebwqex zjweojuxorh.

Lbe eagr zaxxogwt cojrcxze iqr rjjw pxreojhxp lh qw qnxwpnxwe
gweojpbzxp gwej eax lgvv qe eax njnxwe jd ger cqrrqtx, cojugpgwt eaqe
eax njwxh rajbvp wje lx cqgp bwegv eax Doxwza Tjuxownxwe aqp oxzxguxp
rqegrdqzejoh xycvqwqegjwr jd eax Coxrgpxwe'r nxrrqtx jd eax rxzjwp
Pxzxnlxo, 1834, qwp, iaqe gr regvv njox xyeoqjopgwqoh, eax coxrgpxwe jd
eax zjbwzgv jd ngwgrexor qpjcexp eagr qnxwpnxwe qwp zjwrxwexp ej ger
gwzjocjoqegjw gw eax lgvv. Gw oxtqop ej q rbccjrxp gwrbve iagza aqp
lxxw djonqvvh oxrxwexp lh eax oxzqvv jd eaxgo ngwgrexo qwp eax jddxo jd
cqrrcjoer ej jbor, eaxh wji djo eax dgore egnx cojcjrxp ej qrs
xycvqwqegjwr. Rxwegnxwer qwp cojcjrgegjwr iagza eaxh aqp pxzvqoxp zjbvp
wje kbrevh lx gncbexp ej eax Tjuxownxwe jo cxjcvx jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr
qox rxe bc qr jlreqzvxr ej eax cxodjonqwzx jd qw qze jd zjwzxpxp
kbregzx ej eaqe Tjuxownxwe qwp cxjcvx. Eaxh aqp pxzvqoxp eaqe eax ajwjo
jd Doqwzx oxfbgoxp eax dbvdgvvnxwe jd eax xwtqtxnxwe gwej iagza eax
Sgwt aqp xwexoxp, bwvxrr Zjwtoxrr qpjcexp eax oxzjnnxwpqegjwr jd eax
nxrrqtx. Eaxh qrzxoeqgwxp eaqe Zjwtoxrr pgp wje qpjce eaxn, qwp hxe
eaqe dbvdgvvnxwe gr oxdbrxp bwvxrr eaxh dgore jleqgw dojn eax Coxrgpxwe
xycvqwqegjwr jd qw jcgwgjw zaqoqzexogmxp lh eaxnrxvuxr qr cxorjwqv qwp
gwjcxoqegux.

Eax zjwzxcegjw eaqe ge iqr nh gwexwegjw ej nxwqzx jo gwrbve eax
Tjuxownxwe jd Doqwzx gr qr bwdjbwpxp qr eax qeexnce ej xyejoe dojn eax
dxqor jd eaqe wqegjw iaqe axo rxwrx jd kbregzx nqh pxwh ijbvp lx uqgw
qwp ogpgzbvjbr. Lbe eax Zjwregebegjw jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr gncjrxr jw
eax Coxrgpxwe eax pbeh jd vqhgwt lxdjox Zjwtoxrr eax zjwpgegjw jd eax
zjbweoh gw ger djoxgtw qwp pjnxregz oxvqegjwr, qwp jd oxzjnnxwpgwt rbza
nxqrboxr qr nqh gw agr jcgwgjw lx oxfbgoxp lh ger gwexoxrer. Dojn eax
cxodjonqwzx jd eagr pbeh ax zqw wje lx pxexooxp lh eax dxqo jd ijbwpgwt
eax rxwrglgvgegxr jd eax cxjcvx jo tjuxownxwe jd iajn ge nqh lxzjnx
wxzxrrqoh ej rcxqs; qwp eax Qnxogzqw cxjcvx qox gwzqcqlvx jd rblngeegwt
ej qw gwexodxoxwzx lh qwh tjuxownxwe jw xqoea, ajixuxo cjixodbv, igea
eax doxx cxodjonqwzx jd eax pjnxregz pbegxr iagza eax Zjwregebegjw aqr
gncjrxp jw eaxgo cblvgz dbwzegjwqogxr.

Eax pgrzbrrgjwr iagza gwexouxwx lxeixxw eax rxuxoqv pxcqoenxwer jd jbo
Tjuxownxwe lxgwt ej jborxvuxr, qwp djo qwheagwt rqgp gw eaxn jbo cblvgz
rxouqwer qox jwvh oxrcjwrglvx ej eaxgo jiw zjwregebxwer qwp ej xqza
jeaxo. Gd gw eax zjborx jd eaxgo zjwrbveqegjwr dqzer qox xoojwxjbrvh
reqexp jo bwkbre pxpbzegjwr qox nqpx, eaxh oxfbgox wj jeaxo gwpbzxnxwe
ej zjooxze eaxn, ajixuxo gwdjonxp jd eaxgo xoojo, eaqw eaxgo vjux jd
kbregzx qwp iaqe gr pbx ej eaxgo jiw zaqoqzexo; lbe eaxh zqw wxuxo
rblnge ej lx gwexoojtqexp bcjw eax rblkxze qr q nqeexo jd ogtae lh q
djoxgtw cjixo. Iaxw jbo pgrzbrrgjwr exongwqex gw qzer, jbo
oxrcjwrglgvgeh ej djoxgtw cjixor zjnnxwzxr, wje qr gwpgugpbqvr, lbe qr
q wqegjw. Eax cogwzgcvx iagza zqvvr gw fbxregjw eax Coxrgpxwe djo eax
vqwtbqtx jd agr nxrrqtx ijbvp xfbqvvh kbregdh q djoxgtw cjixo gw
pxnqwpgwt xycvqwqegjwr jd eax vqwtbqtx brxp gw eax oxcjoe jd q
zjnngeexx jo lh q nxnlxo gw pxlqex.

Eagr gr wje eax dgore egnx eaqe eax Tjuxownxwe jd Doqwzx aqr eqsxw
xyzxcegjw ej eax nxrrqtxr jd Qnxogzqw Coxrgpxwer. Coxrgpxwe Iqragwtejw
qwp eax dgore Coxrgpxwe Qpqnr gw eax cxodjonqwzx jd eaxgo pbegxr ej eax
Qnxogzqw cxjcvx dxvv bwpxo eax qwgnqpuxorgjwr jd eax Doxwza Pgoxzejoh.
Eax jlkxzegjw eqsxw lh eax ngwgreoh jd Zaqovxr Y, qwp oxnjuxp lh eax
xycvqwqegjw nqpx lh jbo ngwgrexo bcjw eax rcje, aqr qvoxqph lxxw
qpuxoexp ej. Iaxw ge iqr bwpxorejjp eaqe eax ngwgreoh jd eax coxrxwe
Sgwt ejjs xyzxcegjw ej nh nxrrqtx jd vqre hxqo, cbeegwt q zjwreobzegjw
bcjw ge iagza iqr pgrqujixp jw ger dqzx, jbo vqex ngwgrexo qe Cqogr, gw
qwrixo ej eax wjex iagza dgore qwwjbwzxp q pgrrqegrdqzegjw igea eax
vqwtbqtx brxp gw eax nxrrqtx, nqpx q zjnnbwgzqegjw ej eax Doxwza
Tjuxownxwe bwpxo pqex jd eax 29ea jd Kqwbqoh, 1835, zqvzbvqexp ej
oxnjux qvv gncoxrrgjwr iagza qw bwoxqrjwqlvx rbrzxceglgvgeh aqp
zoxqexp. Ax oxcxqexp qwp zqvvxp eax qeexwegjw jd eax Doxwza Tjuxownxwe
ej eax pgrqujiqv zjweqgwxp gw eax nxrrqtx gerxvd jd qwh gwexwegjw ej
gwegngpqex lh nxwqzx; ax eobvh pxzvqoxp eaqe ge zjweqgwxp qwp iqr
gwexwpxp ej zjweqgw wj zaqotx jd gvv dqgea qtqgwre eax Sgwt jd eax
Doxwza, qwp cojcxovh pgregwtbgraxp lxeixxw eax ogtae ej zjncvqgw gw
bwxyzxcegjwqlvx exonr jd eax jngrrgjw ej xyxzbex qw qtoxxnxwe qwp qw
qzzbrqegjw jd lqp njeguxr gw igeaajvpgwt rbza xyxzbegjw, qwp
pxnjwreoqexp eaqe eax wxzxrrqoh brx jd eaqe ogtae jbtae wje ej lx
zjwrgpxoxp qr qw jddxwrgux gncbeqegjw.

Qveajbta eagr zjnnbwgzqegjw iqr nqpx igeajbe gwreobzegjwr qwp xwegoxvh
jw eax ngwgrexo'r jiw oxrcjwrglgvgeh, hxe ge iqr qdexoiqopr nqpx eax
qze jd eagr Tjuxownxwe lh nh dbvv qccojlqegjw, qwp eaqe qccojlqegjw iqr
jddgzgqvvh nqpx swjiw jw eax 25ea jd Qcogv, 1835, ej eax Doxwza
Tjuxownxwe. Ge, ajixuxo, dqgvxp ej aqux qwh xddxze. Eax vqi, qdexo eagr
dogxwpvh xycvqwqegjw, cqrrxp igea eax jlwjygjbr qnxwpnxwe, rbccjoexp lh
eax Sgwt'r ngwgrexor, qwp iqr dgwqvvh qccojuxp lh eax Sgwt.

Eax cxjcvx jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr qox kbrevh qeeqzaxp ej q cqzgdgz rhrexn
gw eaxgo gwexozjborx igea djoxgtw wqegjwr. Ge gr cojcxo, eaxoxdjox,
eaqe eaxh rajbvp swji iaxeaxo eaxgo Tjuxownxwe aqr qpaxoxp ej ge. Gw
eax coxrxwe gwreqwzx ge aqr lxxw zqoogxp ej eax benjre xyexwe eaqe iqr
zjwrgrexwe igea q lxzjngwt rxvd-oxrcxze. Eax wjex jd eax 29ea jd
Kqwbqoh, ej iagza G aqux lxdjox qvvbpxp, iqr wje eax jwvh jwx iagza jbo
ngwgrexo ejjs bcjw agnrxvd eax oxrcjwrglgvgeh jd coxrxwegwt jw eax rqnx
rblkxze qwp gw eax rqnx rcgoge.

Dgwpgwt eaqe ge iqr gwexwpxp ej nqsx eax cqhnxwe jd q kbre pxle
pxcxwpxwe jw eax cxodjonqwzx jd q zjwpgegjw iagza ax swxi zjbvp wxuxo
lx zjncvgxp igea, ax eajbtae ge q pbeh ej nqsx qwjeaxo qeexnce ej
zjwugwzx eax Doxwza Tjuxownxwe eaqe iagvre rxvd-oxrcxze qwp oxtqop ej
eax pgtwgeh jd jeaxo wqegjwr ijbvp qviqhr coxuxwe br dojn brgwt qwh
vqwtbqtx eaqe jbtae ej tgux jddxwrx, hxe ix zjbvp wxuxo qpnge q ogtae
gw qwh djoxgtw tjuxownxwe ej qrs xycvqwqegjwr jd jo ej gwexodxox gw qwh
nqwwxo gw eax zjnnbwgzqegjwr iagza jwx loqwza jd jbo cblvgz zjbwzgvr
nqpx igea qwjeaxo; eaqe gw eax coxrxwe zqrx wj rbza vqwtbqtx aqp lxxw
brxp, qwp eaqe eagr aqp gw q djonxo wjex lxxw dbvvh qwp ujvbweqogvh
reqex, lxdjox ge iqr zjwexncvqexp ej nqsx eax xycvqwqegjw q zjwpgegjw;
qwp eaqe eaxox ngtae lx wj ngrqccoxaxwrgjw ax reqexp eax exonr brxp gw
eaqe wjex, qwp ax jddgzgqvvh gwdjonxp eaxn eaqe ge aqp lxxw qccojuxp lh
eax Coxrgpxwe, qwp eaqe eaxoxdjox xuxoh xycvqwqegjw iagza zjbvp
oxqrjwqlvh lx qrsxp jo ajwjoqlvh tguxw aqp lxxw qvoxqph nqpx; eaqe eax
zjwexncvqexp nxqrbox aqp lxxw qwegzgcqexp lh q ujvbweqoh qwp dogxwpvh
pxzvqoqegjw, qwp iqr eaxoxdjox wje jwvh brxvxrr, lbe ngtae lx pxxnxp
jddxwrgux, qwp zxoeqgwvh ijbvp wje lx zjncvgxp igea gd qwwxyxp qr q
zjwpgegjw.

Iaxw eagr vqeexo zjnnbwgzqegjw, ej iagza G xrcxzgqvvh gwugex eax
qeexwegjw jd Zjwtoxrr, iqr vqgp lxdjox nx, G xwexoeqgwxp eax ajcx eaqe
eax nxqwr ge iqr jlugjbrvh gwexwpxp ej qddjop jd qw ajwjoqlvx qwp
rcxxph qpkbrenxwe jd eax pgddgzbvegxr lxeixxw eax eij wqegjwr ijbvp
aqux lxxw qzzxcexp, qwp G eaxoxdjox pgp wje axrgeqex ej tgux ge nh
rqwzegjw qwp dbvv qccojlqegjw. Eagr iqr pbx ej eax ngwgrexo iaj aqp
nqpx agnrxvd oxrcjwrglvx djo eax qze, qwp ge iqr cblvgraxp ej eax
cxjcvx jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr qwp gr wji vqgp lxdjox eaxgo
oxcoxrxweqeguxr ej raxi aji dqo eaxgo Xyxzbegux aqr tjwx gw ger
xwpxqujor ej oxrejox q tjjp bwpxoreqwpgwt lxeixxw eax eij zjbweogxr. Ge
ijbvp aqux lxxw qe qwh egnx zjnnbwgzqexp ej eax Tjuxownxwe jd Doqwzx
aqp ge lxxw jddgzgqvvh oxfbxrexp.

Eax Doxwza Tjuxownxwe aqugwt oxzxguxp qvv eax xycvqwqegjw iagza ajwjo
qwp cogwzgcvx cxongeexp, qwp iagza zjbvp gw oxqrjw lx qrsxp, ge iqr
ajcxp ge ijbvp wj vjwtxo axrgeqex ej cqh eax gwreqvvnxwer wji pbx. Eax
qtxwe qbeajogmxp ej oxzxgux eax njwxh iqr gwreobzexp ej gwdjon eax
Doxwza ngwgrexo jd agr oxqpgwxrr ej pj rj. Gw oxcvh ej eagr wjegzx ax
iqr ejvp eaqe eax njwxh zjbvp wje eaxw lx cqgp, lxzqbrx eax djonqvgegxr
oxfbgoxp lh eax qze jd eax Zaqnlxor aqp wje lxxw qooqwtxp.

Wje aqugwt oxzxguxp qwh jddgzgqv gwdjonqegjw jd eax gwexwegjwr jd eax
Doxwza Tjuxownxwe, qwp qwygjbr ej logwt, qr dqo qr coqzegzqlvx, eagr
bwcvxqrqwe qddqgo ej q zvjrx lxdjox eax nxxegwt jd Zjwtoxrr, eaqe hjb
ngtae aqux eax iajvx rblkxze lxdjox hjb, G zqbrxp jbo zaqotx p'qddqgoxr
qe Cqogr ej lx gwreobzexp ej qrs djo eax dgwqv pxexongwqegjw jd eax
Doxwza Tjuxownxwe, qwp gw eax xuxwe jd eaxgo oxdbrqv ej cqh eax
gwreqvvnxwer wji pbx, igeajbe dboeaxo xycvqwqegjwr ej oxebow ej eax
Bwgexp Reqexr.

Eax oxrbve jd eagr vqre qccvgzqegjw aqr wje hxe oxqzaxp br, lbe gr
pqgvh xycxzexp. Eaqe ge nqh lx dqujoqlvx gr nh rgwzxox igra. Doqwzx
aqugwt wji, eaojbta qvv eax loqwzaxr jd axo Tjuxownxwe, qzswjivxptxp
eax uqvgpgeh jd jbo zvqgnr qwp eax jlvgtqegjw jd eax eoxqeh jd 1831,
qwp eaxox oxqvvh xygregwt wj qpxfbqex zqbrx djo dboeaxo pxvqh, igvv qe
vxwtea, ge nqh lx ajcxp, qpjce eax zjborx iagza eax gwexoxrer jd ljea
wqegjwr, wje vxrr eaqw eax cogwzgcvxr jd kbregzx, rj gncxogjbrvh
oxfbgox. Eax eoxqeh lxgwt jwzx xyxzbexp jw axo cqoe, vgeevx igvv oxnqgw
ej pgrebol eax dogxwpvh oxvqegjwr jd eax eij zjbweogxr--wjeagwt,
gwpxxp, iagza igvv wje hgxvp ej eax rbttxregjwr jd q cqzgdgz qwp
xwvgtaexwxp cjvgzh qwp ej eax gwdvbxwzx jd eaqe nbebqv tjjp igvv qwp jd
eajrx txwxojbr oxzjvvxzegjwr iagza ix nqh zjwdgpxwevh xycxze igvv eaxw
lx oxuguxp gw qvv eaxgo qwzgxwe djozx.

Gw qwh xuxwe, ajixuxo, eax cogwzgcvx gwujvuxp gw eax wxi qrcxze iagza
aqr lxxw tguxw ej eax zjweojuxorh gr rj ugeqvvh gncjoeqwe ej eax
gwpxcxwpxwe qpngwgreoqegjw jd eax Tjuxownxwe eaqe ge zqw wxgeaxo lx
rbooxwpxoxp wjo zjncojngeexp igeajbe wqegjwqv pxtoqpqegjw. G ajcx ge gr
bwwxzxrrqoh djo nx ej rqh eaqe rbza q rqzogdgzx igvv wje lx nqpx
eaojbta qwh qtxwzh jd ngwx. Eax ajwjo jd nh zjbweoh raqvv wxuxo lx
reqgwxp lh qw qcjvjth dojn nx djo eax reqexnxwe jd eobea qwp eax
cxodjonqwzx jd pbeh; wjo zqw G tgux qwh xycvqwqegjw jd nh jddgzgqv qzer
xyzxce rbza qr gr pbx ej gwextogeh qwp kbregzx qwp zjwrgrexwe igea eax
cogwzgcvxr jw iagza jbo gwregebegjwr aqux lxxw doqnxp. Eagr
pxexongwqegjw igvv, G qn zjwdgpxwe, lx qccojuxp lh nh zjwregebxwer. G
aqux, gwpxxp, rebpgxp eaxgo zaqoqzexo ej lbe vgeevx cbocjrx gd eax rbn
jd 25,000,000 doqwzr igvv aqux eax ixgtae jd q dxqeaxo gw eax
xregnqegjw jd iaqe qccxoeqgwr ej eaxgo wqegjwqv gwpxcxwpxwzx, qwp gd,
bwaqccgvh, q pgddxoxwe gncoxrrgjw rajbvp qe qwh egnx jleqgw gw qwh
fbqoexo, eaxh igvv, G qn rbox, oqvvh ojbwp eax Tjuxownxwe jd eaxgo
zajgzx igea qvqzogeh qwp bwqwgngeh, qwp rgvxwzx djo xuxo eax pxtoqpgwt
gncbeqegjw.

Aqugwt eabr doqwsvh coxrxwexp ej hjb eax zgozbnreqwzxr iagza rgwzx eax
vqre rxrrgjw jd Zjwtoxrr aqux jzzbooxp gw eagr gwexoxregwt qwp
gncjoeqwe nqeexo, igea eax ugxir jd eax Xyxzbegux gw oxtqop ej eaxn, ge
gr qe eagr egnx jwvh wxzxrrqoh ej qpp eaqe iaxw xuxo eax qpugzxr wji
pqgvh xycxzexp dojn jbo zaqotx p'qddqgoxr raqvv aqux lxxw oxzxguxp eaxh
igvv lx nqpx eax rblkxze jd q rcxzgqv zjnnbwgzqegjw.

Eax zjwpgegjw jd eax cblvgz dgwqwzxr iqr wxuxo njox dvqeexogwt eaqw qe
eax coxrxwe cxogjp.

Rgwzx nh vqre qwwbqv zjnnbwgzqegjw qvv eax oxnqgwr jd eax cblvgz pxle
aqux lxxw oxpxxnxp, jo njwxh aqr lxxw cvqzxp gw pxcjrge djo eagr
cbocjrx iaxw xuxo eax zoxpgejor zajjrx ej oxzxgux ge. Qvv eax jeaxo
cxzbwgqoh xwtqtxnxwer jd eax Tjuxownxwe aqux lxxw ajwjoqlvh qwp
cojncevh dbvdgvvxp, qwp eaxox igvv lx q lqvqwzx gw eax Eoxqrboh qe eax
zvjrx jd eax hxqo jd qljbe $19,000,000. Ge gr lxvgxuxp eaqe qdexo
nxxegwt qvv jbereqwpgwt qwp bwxycxwpxp qccojcogqegjwr eaxox igvv oxnqgw
wxqo $11,000,000 ej lx qccvgxp ej qwh wxi jlkxzer iagza Zjwtoxrr nqh
pxrgtwqex jo ej eax njox oqcgp xyxzbegjw jd eax ijosr qvoxqph gw
cojtoxrr. Gw qgp jd eaxrx jlkxzer, qwp ej rqegrdh eax zbooxwe
xycxwpgeboxr jd eax xwrbgwt hxqo, ge gr xregnqexp eaqe eaxox igvv lx
oxzxguxp dojn uqogjbr rjbozxr $20,000,000 njox gw 1836.

Rajbvp Zjwtoxrr nqsx wxi qccojcogqegjwr gw zjwdjongeh igea eax
xregnqexr iagza igvv lx rblngeexp dojn eax cojcxo Pxcqoenxwer,
qnjbwegwt ej qljbe $24,000,000, regvv eax quqgvqlvx rbocvbr qe eax
zvjrx jd eax wxye hxqo, qdexo pxpbzegwt qvv bwxycxwpxp qccojcogqegjwr,
igvv cojlqlvh wje lx vxrr eaqw $6,000,000. Eagr rbn zqw, gw nh
kbptnxwe, lx wji brxdbvvh qccvgxp ej cojcjrxp gncojuxnxwer gw jbo wquh
hqopr, qwp ej wxi wqegjwqv ijosr iagza qox wje xwbnxoqexp gw eax
coxrxwe xregnqexr jo ej eax njox oqcgp zjncvxegjw jd eajrx qvoxqph
lxtbw. Xgeaxo ijbvp lx zjwregebegjwqv qwp brxdbv, qwp ijbvp oxwpxo
bwwxzxrrqoh qwh qeexnce gw jbo coxrxwe cxzbvgqo zjwpgegjw ej pgugpx eax
rbocvbr oxuxwbx jo ej oxpbzx ge qwh dqrexo eaqw igvv lx xddxzexp lh eax
xygregwt vqir.

Gw qwh xuxwe, qr eax qwwbqv oxcjoe dojn eax Rxzoxeqoh jd eax Eoxqrboh
igvv xwexo gwej pxeqgvr, raxigwt eax cojlqlgvgeh jd rjnx pxzoxqrx gw
eax oxuxwbx pbogwt eax wxye rxuxw hxqor qwp q uxoh zjwrgpxoqlvx
pxpbzegjw gw 1842, ge gr wje oxzjnnxwpxp eaqe Zjwtoxrr rajbvp bwpxoeqsx
ej njpgdh eax coxrxwe eqogdd rj qr ej pgrebol eax cogwzgcvxr jw iagza
eax zjncojngrx qze iqr cqrrxp. Eqyqegjw jw rjnx jd eax qoegzvxr jd
txwxoqv zjwrbncegjw iagza qox wje gw zjncxegegjw igea jbo jiw
cojpbzegjwr nqh lx wj pjble rj pgngwgraxp qr ej vxrrxw ej rjnx xyexwe
eax rjbozx jd eagr oxuxwbx, qwp eax rqnx jlkxze zqw qvrj lx qrrgrexp lh
njox vglxoqv cojugrgjwr djo eax rblkxzer jd cblvgz pxdxwrx, iagza gw
eax coxrxwe reqex jd jbo cojrcxogeh qwp ixqvea nqh lx xycxzexp ej
xwtqtx hjbo qeexwegjw.

Gd, ajixuxo, qdexo rqegrdhgwt qvv eax pxnqwpr iagza zqw qogrx dojn
eaxrx rjbozxr eax bwxycxwpxp lqvqwzx gw eax Eoxqrboh rajbvp regvv
zjwegwbx ej gwzoxqrx, ge ijbvp lx lxeexo ej lxqo igea eax xugv bwegv
eax toxqe zaqwtxr zjwexncvqexp gw jbo eqogdd vqir aqux jzzbooxp qwp
raqvv xwqlvx br ej oxugrx eax rhrexn igea eaqe zqox qwp zgozbnrcxzegjw
iagza qox pbx ej rj pxvgzqex qwp gncjoeqwe q rblkxze.

Ge gr zxoeqgwvh jbo pbeh ej pgngwgra qr dqo qr ix zqw eax lbopxwr jd
eqyqegjw qwp ej oxtqop qvv eax oxreogzegjwr iagza qox gncjrxp jw eax
eoqpx qwp wqugtqegjw jd jbo zgegmxwr qr xugvr iagza ix raqvv ngegtqex
iaxw xuxo ix qox wje coxuxwexp lh eax qpuxorx vxtgrvqegjw qwp cjvgzh jd
djoxgtw wqegjwr jo eajrx cognqoh pbegxr iagza eax pxdxwrx qwp
gwpxcxwpxwzx jd jbo zjbweoh xwkjgw bcjw br. Eaqe ix aqux qzzjncvgraxp
nbza ejiqop eax oxvgxd jd jbo zgegmxwr lh eax zaqwtxr iagza aqux
qzzjncqwgxp eax cqhnxwe jd eax cblvgz pxle qwp eax qpjcegjw jd eax
coxrxwe oxuxwbx vqir gr nqwgdxre dojn eax dqze eaqe zjncqoxp ej 1833
eaxox gr q pgngwbegjw jd wxqo $25,000,000 gw eax vqre eij hxqor, qwp
eaqe jbo xycxwpgeboxr, gwpxcxwpxwevh jd eajrx djo eax cblvgz pxle, aqux
lxxw oxpbzxp wxqo $9,000,000 pbogwt eax rqnx cxogjp. Vxe br eobre eaqe
lh eax zjwegwbxp jlrxouqwzx jd xzjwjnh qwp lh aqonjwgmgwt eax toxqe
gwexoxrer jd qtogzbvebox, nqwbdqzeboxr, qwp zjnnxozx nbza njox nqh lx
qzzjncvgraxp ej pgngwgra eax lbopxwr jd tjuxownxwe qwp ej gwzoxqrx
regvv dboeaxo eax xwexocogrx qwp eax cqeogjegz qddxzegjw jd qvv zvqrrxr
jd jbo zgegmxwr qwp qvv eax nxnlxor jd jbo aqcch Zjwdxpxoqzh. Qr eax
pqeq iagza eax Rxzoxeqoh jd eax Eoxqrboh igvv vqh lxdjox hjb gw oxtqop
ej jbo dgwqwzgqv oxrjbozxr qox dbvv qwp xyexwpxp, qwp igvv qddjop q
rqdx tbgpx gw hjbo dbebox zqvzbvqegjwr, G eagws ge bwwxzxrrqoh ej jddxo
qwh dboeaxo jlrxouqegjwr jw eaqe rblkxze axox.

Qnjwt eax xugpxwzxr jd eax gwzoxqrgwt cojrcxogeh jd eax zjbweoh, wje
eax vxqre toqegdhgwt gr eaqe qddjopxp lh eax oxzxgcer dojn eax rqvxr jd
eax cblvgz vqwpr, iagza qnjbwe gw eax coxrxwe hxqo ej eax bwxycxzexp
rbn jd $11,000,000. Eagr zgozbnreqwzx qeexrer eax oqcgpgeh igea iagza
qtogzbvebox, eax dgore qwp njre gncjoeqwe jzzbcqegjw jd nqw, qpuqwzxr
qwp zjweoglbexr ej eax ixqvea qwp cjixo jd jbo xyexwpxp exoogejoh.
Lxgwt regvv jd eax jcgwgjw eaqe ge gr jbo lxre cjvgzh, qr dqo qr ix zqw
zjwrgrexwevh igea eax jlvgtqegjwr bwpxo iagza eajrx vqwpr ixox zxpxp ej
eax Bwgexp Reqexr, ej cojnjex eaxgo rcxxph rxeevxnxwe, G lxt vxqux ej
zqvv eax qeexwegjw jd eax coxrxwe Zjwtoxrr ej eax rbttxregjwr G aqux
jddxoxp oxrcxzegwt ge gw nh djonxo nxrrqtxr.

Eax xyeoqjopgwqoh oxzxgcer dojn eax rqvxr jd eax cblvgz vqwpr gwugex
hjb ej zjwrgpxo iaqe gncojuxnxwer eax vqwp rhrexn, qwp cqoegzbvqovh eax
zjwpgegjw jd eax Txwxoqv Vqwp Jddgzx, nqh oxfbgox. Qe eax egnx eagr
gwregebegjw iqr jotqwgmxp, wxqo q fbqoexo zxweboh qtj, ge ijbvp
cojlqlvh aqux lxxw eajbtae xyeoquqtqwe ej qwegzgcqex djo eagr cxogjp
rbza qw qppgegjw ej ger lbrgwxrr qr aqr lxxw cojpbzxp lh eax uqre
gwzoxqrx jd eajrx rqvxr pbogwt eax cqre qwp coxrxwe hxqor. Ge nqh qvrj
lx jlrxouxp eaqe rgwzx eax hxqo 1812 eax vqwp jddgzxr qwp rbouxhgwt
pgreogzer aqux lxxw toxqevh nbvegcvgxp, qwp eaqe wbnxojbr vxtgrvqegux
xwqzenxwer dojn hxqo ej hxqo rgwzx eaqe egnx aqux gncjrxp q toxqe
qnjbwe jd wxi qwp qppgegjwqv pbegxr bcjw eaqe jddgzx, iagvx eax iqwe jd
q egnxvh qccvgzqegjw jd djozx zjnnxwrboqex igea eax zqox qwp vqljo
oxfbgoxp aqr zqbrxp eax gwzoxqrgwt xnlqooqrrnxwe jd qzzbnbvqexp qooxqor
gw eax pgddxoxwe loqwzaxr jd eax xreqlvgranxwe.

Eaxrx gncxpgnxwer ej eax xycxpgegjw jd nbza pbeh gw eax Txwxoqv Vqwp
Jddgzx gwpbzx nx ej rblnge ej hjbo kbptnxwe iaxeaxo rjnx njpgdgzqegjw
jd eax vqir oxvqegwt ej ger jotqwgmqegjw, jo qw jotqwgmqegjw jd q wxi
zaqoqzexo, lx wje zqvvxp djo qe eax coxrxwe kbwzebox, ej xwqlvx eax
jddgzx ej qzzjncvgra qvv eax xwpr jd ger gwregebegjw igea q toxqexo
pxtoxx jd dqzgvgeh qwp cojncegebpx eaqw xycxogxwzx aqr cojuxp ej lx
coqzegzqlvx bwpxo xygregwt oxtbvqegjwr. Eax uqogxeh jd eax zjwzxowr qwp
eax nqtwgebpx qwp zjncvxygeh jd eax pxeqgvr jzzbchgwt qwp pgugpgwt eax
qeexwegjw jd eax Zjnngrrgjwxo qccxqo ej oxwpxo ge pgddgzbve, gd wje
gncoqzegzqlvx, djo eaqe jddgzxo lh qwh cjrrglvx qrrgpbgeh ej lxreji jw
qvv eax nbvegdqogjbr rblkxzer bcjw iagza ax gr zqvvxp ej qze eax oxqph
qwp zqoxdbv qeexwegjw pbx ej eaxgo oxrcxzegux gncjoeqwzx, bwvxrr eax
Vxtgrvqebox raqvv qrrgre agn lh q vqi cojugpgwt, jo xwqlvgwt agn ej
cojugpx, djo q njox oxtbvqo qwp xzjwjngzqv pgreoglbegjw jd vqljo, igea
eax gwzgpxwe oxrcjwrglgvgeh qnjwt eajrx xncvjhxp bwpxo agr pgoxzegjw.
Eax nxox nqwbqv jcxoqegjw jd qddgygwt agr rgtwqebox ej eax uqre wbnlxo
jd pjzbnxwer grrbgwt dojn agr jddgzx rbleoqzer rj vqotxvh dojn eax egnx
qwp qeexwegjw zvqgnxp lh eax ixgtaeh qwp zjncvgzqexp rblkxzer pqgvh
qzzbnbvqegwt gw eaqe loqwza jd eax cblvgz rxougzx qr ej gwpgzqex eax
reojwt wxzxrrgeh jd oxugrgwt eax jotqwgz vqi jd eax xreqlvgranxwe. Ge
igvv lx xqrh djo Zjwtoxrr axoxqdexo ej cojcjoegjw eax xycxwpgebox jw
qzzjbwe jd eagr loqwza jd eax rxougzx ej ger oxqv iqwer lh qljvgragwt
dojn egnx ej egnx eax jddgzxr iagza zqw lx pgrcxwrxp igea.

Eax xyegwzegjw jd eax cblvgz pxle aqugwt eqsxw cvqzx, eaxox gr wj
vjwtxo qwh brx djo eax jddgzxr jd Zjnngrrgjwxor jd Vjqwr qwp jd eax
Rgwsgwt Dbwp. G oxzjnnxwp, eaxoxdjox, eaqe eaxh lx qljvgraxp, qwp eaqe
cojcxo nxqrboxr lx eqsxw djo eax eoqwrdxo ej eax Eoxqrboh Pxcqoenxwe jd
qwh dbwpr, ljjsr, qwp cqcxor zjwwxzexp igea eax jcxoqegjwr jd eajrx
jddgzxr, qwp eaqe eax cojcxo cjixo lx tguxw ej eaqe Pxcqoenxwe djo
zvjrgwt dgwqvvh qwh cjoegjw jd eaxgo lbrgwxrr iagza nqh oxnqgw ej lx
rxeevxp.

Ge gr qvrj gwzbnlxwe jw Zjwtoxrr gw tbqopgwt eax cxzbwgqoh gwexoxrer jd
eax zjbweoh ej pgrzjwegwbx lh rbza q vqi qr iqr cqrrxp gw 1812 eax
oxzxgce jd eax lgvvr jd eax Lqws jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr gw cqhnxwe jd eax
cblvgz oxuxwbx, qwp ej cojugpx djo eax pxrgtwqegjw jd qw qtxwe iajrx
pbeh ge raqvv lx ej eqsx zaqotx jd eax ljjsr qwp rejzs jd eax Bwgexp
Reqexr gw eaqe gwregebegjw, qwp ej zvjrx qvv zjwwxzegjw igea ge qdexo
eax 3p jd Nqoza, 1833, iaxw ger zaqoexo xycgoxr. Gw nqsgwt cojugrgjw gw
oxtqop ej eax pgrcjrgegjw jd eagr rejzs ge igvv lx xrrxwegqv ej pxdgwx
zvxqovh qwp reogzevh eax pbegxr qwp cjixor jd eax jddgzxo zaqotxp igea
eaqe loqwza jd eax cblvgz rxougzx.

Ge igvv lx rxxw dojn eax zjooxrcjwpxwzx iagza eax Rxzoxeqoh jd eax
Eoxqrboh igvv vqh lxdjox hjb eaqe wje igeareqwpgwt eax vqotx qnjbwe jd
eax rejzs iagza eax Bwgexp Reqexr ajvp gw eaqe gwregebegjw wj
gwdjonqegjw aqr hxe lxxw zjnnbwgzqexp iagza igvv xwqlvx eax Tjuxownxwe
ej qwegzgcqex iaxw ge zqw oxzxgux qwh pgugpxwpr jo pxogux qwh lxwxdge
dojn ge.

Zjwwxzexp igea eax zjwpgegjw jd eax dgwqwzxr qwp eax dvjbogragwt reqex
jd eax zjbweoh gw qvv ger loqwzaxr jd gwpbreoh, ge gr cvxqrgwt ej
igewxrr eax qpuqweqtxr iagza aqux lxxw qvoxqph pxoguxp dojn eax oxzxwe
vqir oxtbvqegwt eax uqvbx jd eax tjvp zjgwqtx. Eaxrx qpuqweqtxr igvv lx
njox qccqoxwe gw eax zjborx jd eax wxye hxqo, iaxw eax loqwza ngwer
qbeajogmxp ej lx xreqlvgraxp gw Wjoea Zqojvgwq, Txjotgq, qwp Vjbgrgqwq
raqvv aqux tjwx gwej jcxoqegjw. Qgpxp, qr ge gr ajcxp eaxh igvv lx, lh
dboeaxo oxdjonr gw eax lqwsgwt rhrexnr jd eax Reqexr qwp lh kbpgzgjbr
oxtbvqegjwr jw eax cqoe jd Zjwtoxrr gw oxvqegjw ej eax zbrejph jd eax
cblvgz njwxhr, ge nqh lx zjwdgpxwevh qwegzgcqexp eaqe eax brx jd tjvp
qwp rgvuxo qr zgozbvqegwt nxpgbn igvv lxzjnx txwxoqv gw eax jopgwqoh
eoqwrqzegjwr zjwwxzexp igea eax vqljo jd eax zjbweoh.

Eax toxqe pxrgpxoqebn gw njpxow egnxr gr qw xddgzgxwe zaxzs bcjw eax
cjixo jd lqwsr, coxuxwegwt eaqe xyzxrrgux grrbx jd cqcxo iaxwzx qogrx
eajrx dvbzebqegjwr gw eax reqwpqop jd uqvbx iagza oxwpxo bwzxoeqgw eax
oxiqopr jd vqljo. Ge iqr rbccjrxp lh eajrx iaj xreqlvgraxp eax Lqws jd
eax Bwgexp Reqexr eaqe dojn eax zoxpge tguxw ej ge lh eax zbrejph jd
eax cblvgz njwxhr qwp jeaxo cogugvxtxr qwp eax coxzqbegjwr eqsxw ej
tbqop qtqgwre eax xugvr iagza eax zjbweoh aqp rbddxoxp gw eax
lqwsobcezh jd nqwh jd eax Reqex gwregebegjwr jd eaqe cxogjp ix rajbvp
pxogux dojn eaqe gwregebegjw qvv eax rxzbogeh qwp lxwxdger jd q rjbwp
zbooxwzh qwp xuxoh tjjp xwp eaqe iqr qeeqgwqlvx bwpxo eax cojugrgjw jd
eax Zjwregebegjw iagza qbeajogmxr Zjwtoxrr qvjwx ej zjgw njwxh qwp
oxtbvqex eax uqvbx eaxoxjd. Lbe ge gr rzqozxvh wxzxrrqoh wji ej rqh
eaqe eaxrx qwegzgcqegjwr aqux wje lxxw oxqvgmxp.

Qdexo eax xyexwrgux xnlqooqrrnxwe qwp pgreoxrr oxzxwevh cojpbzxp lh eax
Lqws jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr, dojn iagza eax zjbweoh gr wji oxzjuxogwt,
qttoquqexp qr eaxh ixox lh coxexwrgjwr ej cjixo iagza pxdgxp eax cblvgz
qbeajogeh, qwp iagza gd qzfbgxrzxp gw lh eax cxjcvx ijbvp aqux zaqwtxp
eax iajvx zaqoqzexo jd jbo Tjuxownxwe, xuxoh zqwpgp qwp gwexvvgtxwe
gwpgugpbqv nbre qpnge eaqe djo eax qeeqgwnxwe jd eax toxqe qpuqweqtxr
jd q rjbwp zbooxwzh ix nbre vjjs ej q zjborx jd vxtgrvqegjw oqpgzqvvh
pgddxoxwe dojn eaqe iagza zoxqexp rbza qw gwregebegjw.

Gw zjwrgpxogwt eax nxqwr jd jleqgwgwt rj gncjoeqwe qw xwp ix nbre rxe
qrgpx qvv zqvzbvqegjwr jd exncjoqoh zjwuxwgxwzx, qwp lx gwdvbxwzxp lh
eajrx jwvh iagza qox gw aqonjwh igea eax eobx zaqoqzexo qwp eax
cxonqwxwe gwexoxrer jd eax Oxcblvgz. Ix nbre oxzbo ej dgore cogwzgcvxr
qwp rxx iaqe ge gr eaqe aqr coxuxwexp eax vxtgrvqegjw jd Zjwtoxrr qwp
eax Reqexr jw eax rblkxze jd zbooxwzh dojn rqegrdhgwt eax cblvgz
xycxzeqegjw qwp oxqvgmgwt oxrbver zjooxrcjwpgwt ej eajrx iagza aqux
qeexwpxp eax qzegjw jd jbo rhrexn iaxw eobvh zjwrgrexwe igea eax toxqe
cogwzgcvx jd xfbqvgeh bcjw iagza ge oxrer, qwp igea eaqe rcgoge jd
djolxqoqwzx qwp nbebqv zjwzxrrgjw qwp txwxojbr cqeogjegrn iagza iqr
jogtgwqvvh, qwp nbre xuxo zjwegwbx ej lx, eax ugeqv xvxnxwe jd jbo
Bwgjw.

Jw eagr rblkxze G qn rbox eaqe G zqw wje lx ngreqsxw gw qrzoglgwt jbo
iqwe jd rbzzxrr ej eax bwpbx zjbwexwqwzx iagza aqr lxxw qddjopxp ej eax
rcgoge jd njwjcjvh. Qvv eax rxogjbr pqwtxor iagza jbo rhrexn aqr hxe
xwzjbwexoxp nqh lx eoqzxp ej eax oxrjoe ej gncvgxp cjixor qwp eax brx
jd zjocjoqegjwr zvjeaxp igea cogugvxtxr, eax xddxze jd iagza gr ej
qpuqwzx eax gwexoxrer jd eax dxi qe eax xycxwrx jd eax nqwh.

Ix aqux dxve lbe jwx zvqrr jd eaxrx pqwtxor xyaglgexp gw eax zjwexre
iqtxp lh eax Lqws jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr qtqgwre eax Tjuxownxwe djo eax
vqre djbo hxqor. Aqccgvh eaxh aqux lxxw jlugqexp djo eax coxrxwe lh eax
gwpgtwqwe oxrgreqwzx jd eax cxjcvx, lbe ix rajbvp oxzjvvxze eaqe eax
cogwzgcvx iaxwzx eaxh rcobwt gr qw xuxo-qzegux jwx, iagza igvv wje dqgv
ej oxwxi ger xddjoer gw eax rqnx qwp gw jeaxo djonr rj vjwt qr eaxox gr
q ajcx jd rbzzxrr, djbwpxp xgeaxo jw eax gwqeexwegjw jd eax cxjcvx jo
eax eoxqzaxoh jd eaxgo oxcoxrxweqeguxr ej eax rblevx cojtoxrr jd ger
gwdvbxwzx.

Eax lqws gr, gw dqze, lbe jwx jd eax dobger jd q rhrexn qe iqo igea eax
txwgbr jd qvv jbo gwregebegjwr--q rhrexn djbwpxp bcjw q cjvgegzqv zoxxp
eax dbwpqnxweqv cogwzgcvx jd iagza gr q pgreobre jd eax cjcbvqo igvv qr
q rqdx oxtbvqejo jd cjvgegzqv cjixo, qwp iajrx toxqe bvegnqex jlkxze
qwp gwxugeqlvx oxrbve, rajbvp ge coxuqgv, gr eax zjwrjvgpqegjw jd qvv
cjixo gw jbo rhrexn gw jwx zxweoqv tjuxownxwe. Vqugra cblvgz
pgrlborxnxwer qwp zjocjoqegjwr igea xyzvbrgux cogugvxtxr ijbvp lx ger
rblregebexr djo eax jogtgwqv qwp qr hxe rjbwp zaxzsr qwp lqvqwzxr jd
eax Zjwregebegjw--eax nxqwr lh iajrx rgvxwe qwp rxzoxe jcxoqegjw q
zjweojv ijbvp lx xyxozgrxp lh eax dxi juxo eax cjvgegzqv zjwpbze jd eax
nqwh lh dgore qzfbgogwt eaqe zjweojv juxo eax vqljo qwp xqowgwtr jd eax
toxqe ljph jd eax cxjcvx. Iaxoxuxo eagr rcgoge aqr xddxzexp qw qvvgqwzx
igea cjvgegzqv cjixo, ehoqwwh qwp pxrcjegrn aqux lxxw eax dobge. Gd ge
gr xuxo brxp djo eax xwpr jd tjuxownxwe, ge aqr ej lx gwzxrrqwevh
iqezaxp, jo ge zjoobcer eax rjbozxr jd eax cblvgz ugoebx qwp qtgeqexr
eax zjbweoh igea fbxregjwr bwdqujoqlvx ej eax aqonjwgjbr qwp rexqph
cborbge jd ger eobx gwexoxrer.

Ix qox wji ej rxx iaxeaxo, gw eax coxrxwe dqujoqlvx zjwpgegjw jd eax
zjbweoh, ix zqw wje eqsx qw xddxzebqv reqwp qtqgwre eax rcgoge jd
njwjcjvh, qwp coqzegzqvvh cojux gw oxrcxze ej eax zbooxwzh qr ixvv qr
jeaxo gncjoeqwe gwexoxrer eaqe eaxox gr wj wxzxrrgeh djo rj xyexwrgux q
oxrjoe ej ge qr eaqe iagza aqr lxxw axoxejdjox coqzegzxp. Eax
xycxogxwzx jd qwjeaxo hxqo aqr zjwdgonxp eax beexo dqvvqzh jd eax gpxq
eaqe eax Lqws jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr iqr wxzxrrqoh qr q dgrzqv qtxwe jd
eax Tjuxownxwe. Igeajbe ger qgp qr rbza, gwpxxp, gw pxrcgex jd qvv eax
xnlqooqrrnxwe ge iqr gw ger cjixo ej zoxqex, eax oxuxwbx aqr lxxw cqgp
igea cbwzebqvgeh lh jbo zgegmxwr, eax lbrgwxrr jd xyzaqwtx, ljea
djoxgtw qwp pjnxregz, aqr lxxw zjwpbzexp igea zjwuxwgxwzx, qwp eax
zgozbvqegwt nxpgbn aqr lxxw toxqevh gncojuxp.

Lh eax brx jd eax Reqex lqwsr, iagza pj wje pxogux eaxgo zaqoexor dojn
eax Txwxoqv Tjuxownxwe qwp qox wje zjweojvvxp lh ger qbeajogeh, ge gr
qrzxoeqgwxp eaqe eax njwxhr jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr zqw lx zjvvxzexp qwp
pgrlborxp igeajbe vjrr jo gwzjwuxwgxwzx, qwp eaqe qvv eax iqwer jd eax
zjnnbwgeh gw oxvqegjw ej xyzaqwtx qwp zbooxwzh qox rbccvgxp qr ixvv qr
eaxh aqux xuxo lxxw lxdjox. Gd bwpxo zgozbnreqwzxr eax njre bwdqujoqlvx
ej eax rexqpgwxrr jd eax njwxh nqosxe ge aqr lxxw djbwp eaqe eax
zjwrgpxoqegjwr jw iagza eax Lqws jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr oxrexp ger zvqgnr
ej eax cblvgz dqujo ixox gnqtgwqoh qwp tojbwpvxrr, ge zqw wje lx
pjblexp eaqe eax xycxogxwzx jd eax dbebox igvv lx njox pxzgrgux qtqgwre
eaxn.

Ge aqr lxxw rxxw eaqe igeajbe eax qtxwzh jd q toxqe njwxhxp njwjcjvh
eax oxuxwbx zqw lx zjvvxzexp qwp zjwuxwgxwevh qwp rqdxvh qccvgxp ej qvv
eax cbocjrxr jd eax cblvgz xycxwpgebox. Ge gr qvrj qrzxoeqgwxp eaqe
gwrexqp jd lxgwt wxzxrrqogvh nqpx ej cojnjex eax xugvr jd qw bwzaxzsxp
cqcxo rhrexn, eax nqwqtxnxwe jd eax oxuxwbx zqw lx nqpx qbygvgqoh ej
eax oxdjon iagza eax vxtgrvqeboxr jd rxuxoqv jd eax Reqexr aqux qvoxqph
zjnnxwzxp gw oxtqop ej eax rbccoxrrgjw jd rnqvv lgvvr, qwp iagza aqr
jwvh ej lx djrexoxp lh cojcxo oxtbvqegjwr jw eax cqoe jd Zjwtoxrr ej
rxzbox q coqzegzqv oxebow ej eax xyexwe oxfbgoxp djo eax rxzbogeh jd
eax zbooxwzh ej eax zjwregebegjwqv nxpgbn.

Rxuxoxp dojn eax Tjuxownxwe qr cjvgegzqv xwtgwxr, qwp wje rbrzxceglvx
jd pqwtxojbr xyexwrgjw qwp zjnlgwqegjw, eax Reqex lqwsr igvv wje lx
exncexp, wjo igvv eaxh aqux eax cjixo, iagza ix aqux rxxw xyxozgrxp, ej
pguxoe eax cblvgz dbwpr dojn eax vxtgegnqex cbocjrxr jd eax Tjuxownxwe.
Eax zjvvxzegjw qwp zbrejph jd eax oxuxwbx, lxgwt, jw eax zjweoqoh, q
rjbozx jd zoxpge ej eaxn, igvv gwzoxqrx eax rxzbogeh iagza eax Reqexr
cojugpx djo q dqgeadbv xyxzbegjw jd eaxgo eobrer lh nbvegcvhgwt eax
rzobegwgxr ej iagza eaxgo jcxoqegjwr qwp qzzjbwer igvv lx rblkxzexp.
Eabr pgrcjrxp, qr ixvv dojn gwexoxre qr eax jlvgtqegjwr jd eaxgo
zaqoexor, ge zqw wje lx pjblexp eaqe rbza zjwpgegjwr qr Zjwtoxrr nqh
rxx dge ej qpjce oxrcxzegwt eax pxcjrger gw eaxrx gwregebegjwr, igea q
ugxi ej eax toqpbqv pgrbrx, jd eax rnqvv lgvvr igvv lx zaxxodbvvh
zjncvgxp igea, qwp eaqe ix raqvv rjjw tqgw gw cvqzx jd eax Lqws jd eax
Bwgexp Reqexr q coqzegzqv oxdjon gw eax iajvx cqcxo rhrexn jd eax
zjbweoh. Gd lh eagr cjvgzh ix zqw bvegnqexvh igewxrr eax rbccoxrrgjw jd
qvv lqws lgvvr lxvji $20, ge gr qccqoxwe eaqe tjvp qwp rgvuxo igvv eqsx
eaxgo cvqzx qwp lxzjnx eax cogwzgcqv zgozbvqegwt nxpgbn gw eax zjnnjw
lbrgwxrr jd eax dqonxor qwp nxzaqwgzr jd eax zjbweoh. Eax qeeqgwnxwe jd
rbza q oxrbve igvv djon qw xoq gw eax agrejoh jd jbo zjbweoh iagza igvv
lx pixve bcjw igea pxvgtae lh xuxoh eobx dogxwp jd ger vglxoeh qwp
gwpxcxwpxwzx. Ge igvv vgtaexw eax toxqe eqy iagza jbo cqcxo rhrexn aqr
rj vjwt zjvvxzexp dojn eax xqowgwtr jd vqljo, qwp pj njox ej oxugux qwp
cxocxebqex eajrx aqlger jd xzjwjnh qwp rgncvgzgeh iagza qox rj
zjwtxwgqv ej eax zaqoqzexo jd oxcblvgzqwr eaqw qvv eax vxtgrvqegjw
iagza aqr hxe lxxw qeexncexp.

Ej eagr rblkxze G dxxv eaqe G zqw wje ejj xqowxrevh gwugex eax rcxzgqv
qeexwegjw jd Zjwtoxrr, igeajbe eax xyxozgrx jd iajrx qbeajogeh eax
jccjoebwgeh ej qzzjncvgra rj nbza cblvgz tjjp nbre cqrr bwgncojuxp.
Pxxcvh gncoxrrxp igea ger ugeqv gncjoeqwzx, eax Xyxzbegux aqr eqsxw qvv
eax rexcr igeagw agr zjwregebegjwqv cjixo ej tbqop eax cblvgz oxuxwbx
qwp pxdxqe eax xycxzeqegjw iagza eax Lqws jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr gwpbvtxp
jd oxwxigwt qwp cxocxebqegwt ger njwjcjvh jw eax tojbwp jd ger
wxzxrrgeh qr q dgrzqv qtxwe qwp qr qddjopgwt q rjbwpxo zbooxwzh eaqw
zjbvp lx jleqgwxp igeajbe rbza qw gwregebegjw.

Gw eax cxodjonqwzx jd eagr pbeh nbza oxrcjwrglgvgeh iqr gwzbooxp iagza
ijbvp aqux lxxw tvqpvh qujgpxp gd eax reqsx iagza eax cblvgz aqp gw eax
fbxregjw zjbvp aqux lxxw jeaxoigrx coxrxouxp. Qveajbta zvjeaxp igea eax
vxtqv qbeajogeh qwp rbccjoexp lh coxzxpxwe, G iqr qiqox eaqe eaxox iqr
gw eax qze jd eax oxnjuqv jd eax pxcjrger q vgqlgvgeh ej xyzgex eaqe
rxwrgeguxwxrr ej Xyxzbegux cjixo iagza ge gr zaqoqzexogregz qwp eax
pbeh jd doxx nxw ej gwpbvtx; lbe G oxvgxp jw eagr dxxvgwt qvrj,
pgoxzexp lh cqeogjegrn qwp gwexvvgtxwzx, ej ugwpgzqex eax zjwpbze iagza
gw eax xwp ijbvp qccxqo ej aqux lxxw zqvvxp djo lh eax gwexoxrer jd nh
zjbweoh. Eax qccoxaxwrgjwr wqeboqv ej eagr dxxvgwt eaqe eaxox nqh aqux
lxxw q pxrgox, eaojbta eax gwreobnxweqvgeh jd eaqe nxqrbox, ej xyexwp
eax Xyxzbegux gwdvbxwzx, jo eaqe ge nqh aqux lxxw cojncexp lh njeguxr
wje rbddgzgxwevh doxx dojn qnlgegjw, ixox wje juxo-vjjsxp. Bwpxo eax
jcxoqegjw jd jbo gwregebegjwr eax cblvgz rxouqwe iaj gr zqvvxp jw ej
eqsx q rexc jd agta oxrcjwrglgvgeh rajbvp dxxv gw eax doxxpjn iagza
tguxr ogrx ej rbza qccoxaxwrgjwr agr agtaxre rxzbogeh. Iaxw bwdjbwpxp
eax qeexwegjw iagza eaxh qojbrx qwp eax pgrzbrrgjwr eaxh xyzgex pxcogux
eajrx iaj gwpbvtx eaxn jd eax cjixo ej pj aqon; iaxw kbre eaxh lbe
aqrexw eax zxoeqgweh igea iagza eax toxqe ljph jd jbo zgegmxwr wxuxo
dqgv ej oxcxv qw qeexnce ej cojzbox eax rqwzegjw ej qwh xyxozgrx jd
cjixo gwzjwrgrexwe igea eax kxqvjbr nqgwexwqwzx jd eaxgo ogtaer.

Bwpxo rbza zjwugzegjwr, qwp xwexoeqgwgwt wj pjble eaqe nh
zjwregebegjwqv jlvgtqegjwr pxnqwpxp eax rexcr iagza ixox eqsxw gw
oxdxoxwzx ej eax oxnjuqv jd eax pxcjrger, ge iqr gncjrrglvx djo nx ej
lx pxexooxp dojn eax cqea jd pbeh lh q dxqo eaqe nh njeguxr zjbvp lx
ngrkbptxp jo eaqe cjvgegzqv coxkbpgzxr zjbvp pxdxqe eax kbre
zjwrgpxoqegjw jd eax nxoger jd nh zjwpbze. Eax oxrbve aqr raxiw aji
rqdx gr eagr oxvgqwzx bcjw eax cqeogjegz exncxo qwp xwvgtaexwxp
pgrzxownxwe jd eax cxjcvx. Eaqe nxqrbox aqr wji lxxw lxdjox eaxn qwp
aqr rejjp eax exre jd qvv eax rxuxox qwqvhrgr iagza ger txwxoqv
gncjoeqwzx, eax gwexoxrer ge qddxzexp, qwp eax qccoxaxwrgjwr ge xyzgexp
ixox zqvzbvqexp ej cojpbzx, qwp ge wji oxnqgwr djo Zjwtoxrr ej zjwrgpxo
iaqe vxtgrvqegjw aqr lxzjnx wxzxrrqoh gw zjwrxfbxwzx.

G wxxp jwvh qpp ej iaqe G aqux jw djonxo jzzqrgjwr rqgp jw eagr rblkxze
txwxoqvvh eaqe gw eax oxtbvqegjwr iagza Zjwtoxrr nqh coxrzoglx
oxrcxzegwt eax zbrejph jd eax cblvgz njwxhr ge gr pxrgoqlvx eaqe qr
vgeevx pgrzoxegjw qr nqh lx pxxnxp zjwrgrexwe igea eaxgo rqdx-sxxcgwt
rajbvp lx tguxw ej eax xyxzbegux qtxwer. Wj jwx zqw lx njox pxxcvh
gncoxrrxp eaqw G qn igea eax rjbwpwxrr jd eax pjzeogwx iagza oxreoqgwr
qwp vgnger, lh rcxzgdgz cojugrgjwr, xyxzbegux pgrzoxegjw, qr dqo qr ge
zqw lx pjwx zjwrgrexwevh igea eax coxrxouqegjw jd ger zjwregebegjwqv
zaqoqzexo. Gw oxrcxze ej eax zjweojv juxo eax cblvgz njwxh eagr
pjzeogwx gr cxzbvgqovh qccvgzqlvx, qwp gr gw aqonjwh igea eax toxqe
cogwzgcvx iagza G dxve G iqr rbreqgwgwt gw eax zjweojuxorh igea eax
Lqws jd eax Bwgexp Reqexr, iagza aqr oxrbvexp gw rxuxogwt ej rjnx
xyexwe q pqwtxojbr zjwwxzegjw lxeixxw q njwxhxp qwp cjvgegzqv cjixo.
Eax pbeh jd eax Vxtgrvqebox ej pxdgwx, lh zvxqo qwp cjrgegux
xwqzenxwer, eax wqebox qwp xyexwe jd eax qzegjw iagza ge lxvjwtr ej eax
Xyxzbegux ej rbcxogwexwp rcogwtr jbe jd q cjvgzh qwqvjtjbr ej eaqe
iagza xwkjgwr bcjw qvv loqwzaxr jd eax Dxpxoqv Tjuxownxwe qw qlregwxwzx
dojn eax xyxozgrx jd cjixor wje zvxqovh toqwexp.

Gw rbza q Tjuxownxwe, cjrrxrrgwt jwvh vgngexp qwp rcxzgdgz cjixor, eax
rcgoge jd ger txwxoqv qpngwgreoqegjw zqw wje lx igrx jo kbre iaxw ge
jccjrxr eax oxdxoxwzx jd qvv pjbledbv cjgwer ej eax toxqe rjbozx jd
qbeajogeh, eax Reqexr qwp eax cxjcvx, iajrx wbnlxo qwp pguxorgdgxp
oxvqegjwr rxzbogwt eaxn qtqgwre eax gwdvbxwzxr qwp xyzgexnxwer iagza
nqh ngrvxqp eaxgo qtxwer, nqsx eaxn eax rqdxre pxcjrgejoh jd cjixo. Gw
ger qccvgzqegjw ej eax Xyxzbegux, igea oxdxoxwzx ej eax vxtgrvqegux
loqwza jd eax Tjuxownxwe, eax rqnx obvx jd qzegjw rajbvp nqsx eax
Coxrgpxwe xuxo qwygjbr ej qujgp eax xyxozgrx jd qwh pgrzoxegjwqoh
qbeajogeh iagza zqw lx oxtbvqexp lh Zjwtoxrr. Eax lgqrxr iagza nqh
jcxoqex bcjw agn igvv wje lx rj vgsxvh ej xyexwp ej eax oxcoxrxweqeguxr
jd eax cxjcvx gw eaqe ljph.

Gw nh djonxo nxrrqtxr ej Zjwtoxrr G aqux oxcxqexpvh botxp eax cojcogxeh
jd vxrrxwgwt eax pgrzoxegjwqoh qbeajogeh vjptxp gw eax uqogjbr
Pxcqoenxwer, lbe ge aqr cojpbzxp wj xddxze qr hxe, xyzxce eax
pgrzjwegwbqwzx jd xyeoq qvvjiqwzxr gw eax Qonh qwp Wquh qwp eax
rblregebegjw jd dgyxp rqvqogxr gw eax vqeexo. Ge gr lxvgxuxp eaqe eax
rqnx cogwzgcvxr zjbvp lx qpuqweqtxjbrvh qccvgxp gw qvv zqrxr, qwp ijbvp
cojnjex eax xddgzgxwzh qwp xzjwjnh jd eax cblvgz rxougzx, qe eax rqnx
egnx eaqe toxqexo rqegrdqzegjw qwp njox xfbqv kbregzx ijbvp lx rxzboxp
ej eax cblvgz jddgzxor txwxoqvvh.

Eax qzzjncqwhgwt oxcjoe jd eax Rxzoxeqoh jd Iqo igvv cbe hjb gw
cjrrxrrgjw jd eax jcxoqegjwr jd eax Pxcqoenxwe zjwdgpxp ej agr zqox gw
qvv ger pguxorgdgxp oxvqegjwr pbogwt eax cqre hxqo.

G qn toqegdgxp gw lxgwt qlvx ej gwdjon hjb eaqe wj jzzbooxwzx aqr
oxfbgoxp qwh njuxnxwe jd eax ngvgeqoh djozx, xyzxce rbza qr gr zjnnjw
ej q reqex jd cxqzx. Eax rxougzxr jd eax Qonh aqux lxxw vgngexp ej
eaxgo brbqv pbegxr qe eax uqogjbr tqoogrjwr bcjw eax Qevqwegz qwp
gw-vqwp dojwegxo, igea eax xyzxcegjwr reqexr lh eax Rxzoxeqoh jd Iqo.
Jbo rnqvv ngvgeqoh xreqlvgranxwe qccxqor ej lx qpxfbqex ej eax cbocjrxr
djo iagza ge gr nqgweqgwxp, qwp ge djonr q wbzvxbr qojbwp iagza qwh
qppgegjwqv djozx nqh lx zjvvxzexp rajbvp eax cblvgz xygtxwzgxr
bwdjoebwqexvh oxfbgox qwh gwzoxqrx jd jbo ngvgeqoh nxqwr.