Pgffdv Wlzlqgtm dp zeg Mgtkzg ktb dp zeg Edsmg dp Ogxogmgtzkzljgm:

Lz uljgm ng xfgkmsog zd wdtuokzsfkzg cds sxdt cdso ogzsot zd zeg mgkz
dp Udjgotngtz pdo zeg xsoxdmg dp blmwekoultu cdso bszlgm zd zeg xgdxfg
dp zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm. Kfzedsue zeg xgmzlfgtwg velwe ekb zokjgomgb zeg
Dfb Vdofb ekm gtzgogb dso flnlzm ktb gyzgtbgb lzm okjkugm djgo nswe dp
dso fktb, lz ekm xfgkmgb Kfnluezc Udb zd nlzlukzg lzm mgjgolzc ktb
fgmmgt zeg tsnhgo dp lzm jlwzlnm wdnxkogb vlze zedmg ved ekjg pkffgt lt
ndmz dzego wdstzolgm djgo velwe lz ekm mxogkb lzm zgoodom. Tdz vlze
mzktbltu zelm jlmlzkzldt, dso wdstzoc xogmgtzm dt gjgoc mlbg nkoam dp
xodmxgolzc ktb ekxxltgmm stgiskfgb, xgoekxm, lt ktc dzego xdozldt dp
zeg vdofb. Lp vg psffc kxxogwlkzg dso wdnxkokzljg wdtblzldt, gylmzltu
wksmgm dp blmwdtzgtz vlff kxxgko stvdozec dp kzzgtzldt, ktb, vlze
egkozm dp zektapsftgmm zd zekz bljltg Hgltu ved ekm plffgb dso wsx dp
xodmxgolzc, vg mekff pggf dso ogmdfszldt mzogtuzegtgb zd xogmgojg ktb
ektb bdvt zd dso xdmzgolzc zekz flhgozc ktb zekz stldt velwe vg ekjg
ogwgljgb podn dso pkzegom, ktb velwe wdtmzlzszg zeg mdsowgm ktb zeg
melgfb dp kff dso hfgmmltum.

Zeg ogfkzldtm dp dso wdstzoc wdtzltsg zd xogmgtz zeg mkng xlwzsog dp
knlwkhfg ltzgowdsomg zekz L ekb zeg mkzlmpkwzldt zd edfb sx zd cdso
jlgv kz zeg dxgtltu dp cdso fkmz mgmmldt. Zeg mkng polgtbfc
xodpgmmldtm, zeg mkng bgmlog zd xkozlwlxkzg lt dso pfdsolmeltu
wdnngowg, zeg mkng blmxdmlzldtm, gjltwgb hc kff tkzldtm vlze vedn vg
ekjg ktc ltzgowdsomg. Zelm bgmlokhfg mzkzg dp zeltum nkc hg nkltfc
kmwolhgb zd dso stbgjlkzltu xokwzlwg dp zeg osfg velwe ekm fdtu uslbgb
dso tkzldtkf xdflwc, zd ogislog td gywfsmljg xoljlfgugm lt wdnngowg ktb
zd uoktz tdtg. Lz lm bklfc xodbswltu lzm hgtgplwlkf gppgwz lt zeg
ogmxgwz medvt zd dso pfku, zeg xodzgwzldt dp dso wlzlqgtm ktb zeglo
xodxgozc khodkb, ktb lt zeg ltwogkmg dp dso tkjlukzldt ktb zeg
gyzgtmldt dp dso ngowktzlfg dxgokzldtm. Zeg ogzsotm velwe ekjg hggt
nkbg dsz mltwg vg fkmz ngz vlff medv kt ltwogkmg bsoltu zeg fkmz
xogwgbltu cgko dp ndog zekt 80 zedsmktb zdtm lt dso melxxltu ktb dp
tgko $40,000,000 lt zeg kuuogukzg dp dso lnxdozm ktb gyxdozm.

Tdo ekjg vg fgmm ogkmdt zd pgflwlzkzg dsomgfjgm dt zeg xdmlzldt dp dso
xdflzlwkf zekt dp dso wdnngowlkf wdtwgotm. Zegc ognklt lt zeg mzkzg lt
velwe zegc vgog vegt L fkmz kbbogmmgb cds--k mzkzg dp xodmxgolzc ktb
xgkwg, zeg gppgwz dp k vlmg kzzgtzldt zd zeg xkozltu kbjlwg dp zeg
ogjgogb Pkzego dp elm Wdstzoc dt zelm mshrgwz, wdtbgtmgb ltzd k nkyln
pdo zeg smg dp xdmzgolzc hc dtg dp elm ndmz blmzltuslmegb
mswwgmmdom--zd wsfzljkzg pogg wdnngowg ktb edtgmz polgtbmelx vlze kff
tkzldtm, hsz zd nkag gtzktufltu kfflktwgm vlze tdtg. K mzolwz kbegogtwg
zd zelm xdflwc ekm agxz sm kfddp podn zeg xgoxfgyltu isgmzldtm zekz tdv
kulzkzg zeg Gsodxgkt vdofb ktb ekjg ndog zekt dtwg bgfsugb zedmg
wdstzolgm vlze hfddb. Medsfb zedmg mwgtgm stpdozstkzgfc ogwso, zeg
xkozlgm zd zeg wdtzgmz nkc wdstz dt k pklzepsf xgopdonktwg dp zeg
bszlgm ltwsnhgtz dt sm km k tgszokf tkzldt, ktb dso dvt wlzlqgtm nkc
giskffc ogfc dt zeg plon kmmgozldt dp zeglo tgszokf oluezm.

Vlze zeg tkzldt zekz vkm dso gkoflgmz polgtb ktb kffc lt zeg ltpktwc dp
dso xdflzlwkf gylmzgtwg zeg ndmz polgtbfc ogfkzldtm ekjg mshmlmzgb
zeodsue zeg fkzg ogjdfszldtm dp lzm Udjgotngtz, ktb, podn zeg gjgtzm dp
zeg fkmz, xodnlmg k xgonktgtz bsokzldt. Lz ekm nkbg kt kxxodylnkzldt lt
mdng dp lzm xdflzlwkf ltmzlzszldtm zd dso dvt, ktb oklmgb k ndtkowe zd
zeg zeodtg ved xogmgojgm, lz lm mklb, k polgtbfc ogwdffgwzldt dp zeg
xgoldb bsoltu velwe eg kwislogb kndtu dso wlzlqgtm zeg elue
wdtmlbgokzldt zekz wdsfb zegt ekjg hggt xodbswgb hc elm xgomdtkf
iskflplwkzldtm kfdtg.

Dso wdnngowg vlze zekz tkzldt lm uokbskffc kmmsnltu k nszskffc
hgtgplwlkf wekokwzgo, ktb zeg kbrsmzngtz dp zeg wfklnm dp dso wlzlqgtm
ekm ogndjgb zeg dtfc dhmzkwfg zegog vkm zd kt ltzgowdsomg tdz dtfc
fswokzljg, hsz xodbswzljg dp flzgokoc ktb mwlgtzlplw lnxodjgngtz.

Podn Uogkz Holzklt L ekjg zeg mkzlmpkwzldt zd ltpdon cds zekz L
wdtzltsg zd ogwgljg kmmsoktwgm dp zeg ndmz knlwkhfg blmxdmlzldt, velwe
ekjg dt nc xkoz dt kff xodxgo dwwkmldtm hggt xodnxzfc ktb mltwgogfc
ogwlxodwkzgb. Zeg kzzgtzldt dp zekz Udjgotngtz ekm fkzzgofc hggt md
nswe gtuodmmgb hc nkzzgom dp k bggxfc ltzgogmzltu bdngmzlw wekokwzgo
zekz vg wdsfb tdz xogmm sxdt lz zeg ogtgvkf dp tgudzlkzldtm velwe ekb
hggt stpdozstkzgfc hodagt dpp hc zeg stgyxgwzgb ogwkff dp dso nltlmzgo,
ved ekb wdnngtwgb zegn vlze mdng edxgm dp mswwgmm. Nc uogkz dhrgwz vkm
zeg mgzzfgngtz dp isgmzldtm velwe, zedsue tdv bdonktz, nluez egog-kpzgo
hg ogjljgb stbgo wlowsnmzktwgm zekz vdsfb gtbktugo zeg uddb
stbgomzktbltu velwe lz lm zeg ltzgogmz dp hdze xkozlgm zd xogmgojg
ltjldfkzg, wgngtzgb km lz lm hc k wdnnstlzc dp fktuskug, nkttgom, ktb
mdwlkf ekhlzm, ktb hc zeg elue dhflukzldtm vg dvg zd dso Holzlme
ktwgmzdom pdo nktc dp dso ndmz jkfskhfg ltmzlzszldtm ktb pdo zekz
mcmzgn dp ogxogmgtzkzljg udjgotngtz velwe ekm gtkhfgb sm zd xogmgojg
ktb lnxodjg zegn.  Zeg isgmzldt dp dso Tdoze-Gkmz hdstbkoc mzlff
ognkltm stmgzzfgb. Lt nc fkmz kttskf ngmmkug L gyxfkltgb zd cds zeg
mlzskzldt lt velwe L pdstb zekz hsmltgmm dt nc wdnltu ltzd dpplwg, ktb
zeg ngkmsogm L zedsuez lz nc bszc zd xsomsg pdo kmmgozltu zeg oluezm dp
zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm hgpdog zeg mdjgoglut ved ekb hggt wedmgt hc nc
xogbgwgmmdo zd bgzgonltg zeg isgmzldt, ktb kfmd zeg nkttgo lt velwe eg
ekb blmxdmgb dp lz. K mxgwlkf ngmmkug zd zeg Mgtkzg lt zeglo gygwszljg
wkxkwlzc kpzgovkobm hodsuez hgpdog zegn zd zeg isgmzldt vegzego zegc
vdsfb kbjlmg k mshnlmmldt zd zeg dxltldt dp zeg mdjgoglut kohlzgo. Zekz
hdbc ekjltu wdtmlbgogb zeg kvkob km tdz dhflukzdoc ktb kbjlmgb ng zd
dxgt k psozego tgudzlkzldt, zeg xodxdmlzldt vkm lnngblkzgfc nkbg zd zeg
Holzlme Udjgotngtz, hsz zeg wlowsnmzktwgm zd velwe L ekjg kffsbgb ekjg
elzegozd xogjgtzgb ktc ktmvgo hgltu uljgt zd zeg djgozsog. Gkofc
kzzgtzldt, edvgjgo, ekm hggt xodnlmgb zd zeg mshrgwz, ktb gjgoc gppdoz
dt nc xkoz vlff hg nkbg pdo k mkzlmpkwzdoc mgzzfgngtz dp zelm isgmzldt,
ltzgogmzltu zd zeg Stldt ugtgokffc, ktb xkozlwsfkofc md zd dtg dp lzm
ngnhgom.

Zeg wfklnm dp dso wlzlqgtm dt Mxklt kog tdz cgz kwatdvfgbugb. Dt k
wfdmgo ltjgmzlukzldt dp zegn zekt kxxgkom zd ekjg egogzdpdog zkagt
xfkwg lz vkm blmwdjgogb zekz mdng dp zegmg bgnktbm, edvgjgo mzodtu zegc
nluez hg sxdt zeg gislzc dp zekz Udjgotngtz, vgog tdz mswe km wdsfb hg
nkbg zeg mshrgwz dp tkzldtkf ltzgopgogtwg; ktb pklzepsf zd zeg
xoltwlxfg dp kmaltu tdzeltu hsz vekz vkm wfgkofc oluez, kbblzldtkf
ltmzoswzldtm ekjg hggt mgtz zd ndblpc dso bgnktbm md km zd gnhokwg
zedmg dtfc dt velwe, kwwdobltu zd zeg fkvm dp tkzldtm, vg ekb k mzolwz
oluez zd ltmlmz. Kt ltgjlzkhfg bgfkc lt xodwsoltu zeg bdwsngtzm
tgwgmmkoc pdo zelm ogjlgv dp zeg ngolzm dp zegmg wfklnm ogzkobgb zelm
dxgokzldt stzlf kt stpdozstkzg nkfkbc velwe ekm kppflwzgb Elm Wkzedflw
Nkrgmzc xogjgtzgb kt gyknltkzldt dp zegn. Hgltu tdv pdo zeg plomz zlng
xogmgtzgb lt kt stgywgxzldtkhfg pdon, lz lm wdtplbgtzfc edxgb zekz zeg
kxxflwkzldt vlff hg mswwgmmpsf.

L ekjg zeg mkzlmpkwzldt zd ltpdon cds zekz zeg kxxflwkzldt L blogwzgb
zd hg nkbg pdo zeg bgfljgoc dp k xkoz dp zeg koweljgm dp Pfdolbk, velwe
ekb hggt wkoolgb zd Zeg Ekjkttke, ekm xodbswgb k odckf dobgo pdo zeglo
bgfljgoc, ktb zekz ngkmsogm ekjg hggt zkagt zd xodwsog lzm gygwszldt.

Hc zeg ogxdoz dp zeg Mgwogzkoc dp Mzkzg wdnnstlwkzgb zd cds dt Rstg
25ze, 1832 cds vgog ltpdongb dp zeg wdtblzldtkf ogbswzldt dhzkltgb hc
zeg nltlmzgo dp zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm kz Nkbolb dp zeg bszlgm dt zdttkug
fgjlgb dt Kngolwkt melxxltu lt zeg xdozm dp Mxklt. Zeg wdtblzldt dp
zekz ogbswzldt ekjltu hggt wdnxflgb vlze dt dso xkoz hc zeg kwz xkmmgb
Rsfc 13ze, 1832, L ekjg zeg mkzlmpkwzldt zd ltpdon cds zekz dso melxm
tdv xkc td eluego tdo dzego bszlgm lt zeg wdtzltgtzkf xdozm dp Mxklt
zekt kog fgjlgb dt zeglo tkzldtkf jgmmgfm.

Zeg bgnktbm kukltmz Xdozsukf pdo lffgukf wkxzsogm lt zeg hfdwakbg dp
Zgowglok ekjg hggt kffdvgb zd zeg psff kndstz dp zeg kwwdstzm xogmgtzgb
hc zeg wfklnktzm, ktb xkcngtz vkm xodnlmgb zd hg nkbg lt zeogg
ltmzkffngtzm. Zeg plomz dp zegmg ekm hggt xklb; zeg mgwdtb, kfzedsue
bsg, ekb tdz kz zeg bkzg dp dso fkmz kbjlwgm hggt ogwgljgb, dvltu, lz
vkm kffgugb, zd gnhkookmmngtzm lt zeg pltktwgm wdtmgisgtz dt zeg wljlf
vko lt velwe zekz tkzldt lm gtukugb.

Zeg xkcngtzm mzlxsfkzgb hc zeg wdtjgtzldt vlze Bgtnkoa ekjg hggt
xstwzskffc nkbg, ktb zeg kndstz lm ogkbc pdo blmzolhszldt kndtu zeg
wfklnktzm km mddt km zeg hdkob, tdv mlzzltu, mekff ekjg xgopdongb zeglo
pstwzldtm.

L oguogz zekz hc zeg fkmz kbjlwgm podn dso wekoug b'kppklogm kz Tkxfgm
zekz Udjgotngtz ekb mzlff bgfkcgb zeg mkzlmpkwzldt bsg zd dso wlzlqgtm,
hsz kz zekz bkzg zeg gppgwz dp zeg fkmz ltmzoswzldtm vkm tdz atdvt.
Blmxkzwegm podn zegtwg kog edsofc gyxgwzgb, ktb zeg ogmsfz vlff hg
wdnnstlwkzgb zd cds vlzedsz bgfkc.

Vlze zeg ogmz dp Gsodxg dso ogfkzldtm, xdflzlwkf ktb wdnngowlkf, ognklt
stwektugb. Tgudzlkzldtm kog udltu dt zd xsz dt k xgonktgtz hkmlm zeg
flhgokf mcmzgn dp wdnngowg tdv wkoolgb dt hgzvggt sm ktb zeg Gnxlog dp
Osmmlk. Zeg zogkzc wdtwfsbgb vlze Ksmzolk lm gygwszgb hc Elm Lnxgolkf
Nkrgmzc vlze zeg ndmz xgopgwz uddb pklze, ktb km vg ekjg td blxfdnkzlw
kugtz kz elm Wdsoz eg xgomdtkffc ltislogb ltzd ktb wdoogwzgb k
xodwggbltu dp mdng dp elm mshkfzgot dpplwgom zd zeg ltrsoc dp dso
wdtmsf lt dtg dp elm xdozm.

Dso zogkzc vlze zeg Mshflng Xdozg lm xodbswltu lzm gyxgwzgb gppgwzm dt
dso wdnngowg. Tgv nkoagzm kog dxgtltu pdo dso wdnndblzlgm ktb k ndog
gyzgtmljg oktug pdo zeg gnxfdcngtz dp dso melxm. K mfluez ksungtzkzldt
dp zeg bszlgm dt dso wdnngowg, ltwdtmlmzgtz vlze zeg mxlolz dp zeg
zogkzc, ekb hggt lnxdmgb, hsz dt zeg ogxogmgtzkzldt dp dso wekoug
b'kppklogm lz ekm hggt xodnxzfc vlzebokvt, ktb vg tdv gtrdc zeg zokbg
ktb tkjlukzldt dp zeg Hfkwa Mgk ktb dp kff zeg xdozm hgfdtultu zd zeg
Zsoalme Gnxlog ktb Kmlk dt zeg ndmz xgopgwz giskflzc vlze kff pdoglut
tkzldtm.

L vlme gkotgmzfc zekz lt kttdstwltu zd cds zeg wdtzltsktwg dp
polgtbmelx ktb zeg ltwogkmg dp k xodplzkhfg wdnngowlkf ltzgowdsomg vlze
Ngylwd, vlze Wgtzokf Kngolwk, ktb zeg Mzkzgm dp zeg Mdsze L wdsfb
kwwdnxktc lz vlze zeg kmmsoktwg zekz zegc kff kog hfgmmgb vlze zekz
ltzgotkf zoktislfflzc ktb pdoglut xgkwg velwe zeglo egodlw bgjdzldt zd
zeg wksmg dp zeglo ltbgxgtbgtwg ngolzm. Lt Ngylwd k mktusltkoc mzosuufg
lm tdv wkoolgb dt, velwe ekm wksmgb mdng gnhkookmmngtz zd dso wdnngowg,
hsz hdze xkozlgm xodpgmm zeg ndmz polgtbfc blmxdmlzldt zdvkob sm. Zd
zeg zgonltkzldt dp zelm wdtzgmz vg fdda pdo zeg gmzkhflmengtz dp zekz
mgwsog ltzgowdsomg md tgwgmmkoc zd tkzldtm vedmg zgoolzdolgm kog
wdtzlusdsm. Edv lnxdozktz lz vlff hg zd sm vg nkc wkfwsfkzg podn zeg
pkwz zekz gjgt lt zelm stpkjdokhfg mzkzg dp zeltum dso nkolzlng
wdnngowg ekm ltwogkmgb, ktb kt ltzgotkf zokbg hc wkokjktm podn Mz.
Fdslm zd Mktzk Pg, stbgo zeg xodzgwzldt dp gmwdozm psotlmegb hc zeg
Udjgotngtz, lm wkoolgb dt zd uogkz kbjktzkug ktb lm bklfc ltwogkmltu.
Zeg kugtzm xodjlbgb pdo hc zeg zogkzc, vlze zelm xdvgo zd bgmlutkzg zeg
hdstbkolgm velwe lz gmzkhflmegb, ekjg hggt tkngb dt dso xkoz, hsz dtg
dp zeg gjlfm dp zeg wljlf vko tdv okultu zegog ekm hggt zekz zeg
kxxdltzngtz dp zedmg vlze vedn zegc vgog zd wddxgokzg ekm tdz cgz hggt
kttdstwgb zd sm.

Zeg Udjgotngtz dp Wgtzokf Kngolwk ekm gyxgffgb podn lzm zgoolzdoc zeg
xkozc velwe mdng zlng mltwg blmzsohgb lzm xgkwg. Bgmlodsm dp pdmzgoltu
k pkjdokhfg blmxdmlzldt zdvkob sm, velwe ekm dt ndog zekt dtg dwwkmldt
hggt gjltwgb hc zelm ltzgogmzltu wdstzoc, L nkbg k mgwdtb kzzgnxz lt
zelm cgko zd gmzkhflme k blxfdnkzlw ltzgowdsomg vlze zegn; hsz zeg
bgkze dp zeg blmzltuslmegb wlzlqgt vedn L ekb kxxdltzgb pdo zekz
xsoxdmg ekm ogzkobgb zeg gygwszldt dp ngkmsogm podn velwe L edxgb nswe
kbjktzkug zd dso wdnngowg. Zeg stldt dp zeg zeogg Mzkzgm velwe pdongb
zeg Ogxshflw dp Wdfdnhlk ekm hggt blmmdfjgb, hsz zegc kff, lz lm
hgflgjgb, wdtmlbgo zegnmgfjgm km mgxkokzgfc hdstb hc zeg zogkzc velwe
vkm nkbg lt zeglo pgbgokf wkxkwlzc. Zeg nltlmzgo kwwogblzgb zd zeg
pgbgokzldt wdtzltsgm lt zekz wekokwzgo tgko zeg Udjgotngtz dp Tgv
Uogtkbk, ktb edxgm vgog gtzgozkltgb zekz k tgv stldt vdsfb hg pdongb
hgzvggt zeg mgxkokzg Mzkzgm, kz fgkmz pdo zeg xsoxdmgm dp pdoglut
ltzgowdsomg. Dso nltlmzgo ekm hggt ltmzoswzgb zd smg elm uddb dpplwgm,
vegt gjgo zegc mekff hg bgmlogb, zd xodbswg zeg ogstldt md nswe zd hg
vlmegb pdo, zeg bdngmzlw zoktislfflzc dp zeg xkozlgm, ktb zeg mgwsolzc
ktb pkwlflzc dp pdoglut wdnngowg.

Mdng kulzkzldtm tkzsokffc kzzgtbktz dt kt ltpktz oglut ekjg xogjklfgb
lt zeg Gnxlog dp Hokqlf, velwe ekjg ekb zeg smskf gppgwz sxdt
wdnngowlkf dxgokzldtm, ktb velfg zegc msmxgtbgb zeg wdtmlbgokzldt dp
wfklnm wogkzgb dt mlnlfko dwwkmldtm, zegc ekjg uljgt olmg zd tgv
wdnxfkltzm dt zeg xkoz dp dso wlzlqgtm. K xodxgo wdtmlbgokzldt pdo
wkfknlzlgm ktb blpplwsfzlgm dp zelm tkzsog ekm nkbg sm fgmm sougtz ktb
xgognxzdoc lt dso bgnktbm pdo rsmzlwg zekt bszc zd dso pgffdv wlzlqgtm
vdsfb stbgo dzego wlowsnmzktwgm ekjg ogislogb. Hsz zeglo wfklnm kog tdz
tgufgwzgb, ktb vlff dt kff xodxgo dwwkmldtm hg sougb, ktb lz lm edxgb
vlze gppgwz.

L ogpoklt podn nkaltu ktc wdnnstlwkzldt dt zeg mshrgwz dp dso kppklom
vlze Hsgtdm Kcogm, hgwksmg zeg tgudzlkzldt wdnnstlwkzgb zd cds lt nc
fkmz kttskf ngmmkug vkm kz zeg bkzg dp dso fkmz kbjlwgm mzlff xgtbltu
ktb lt k mzkzg zekz vdsfb ogtbgo k xshflwkzldt dp zeg bgzklfm
ltgyxgblgtz.

K zogkzc dp knlzc ktb wdnngowg ekm hggt pdongb vlze zeg Ogxshflw dp
Welfl, velwe, lp kxxodjgb hc zeg Mgtkzg, vlff hg fklb hgpdog cds. Zekz
Udjgotngtz mggnm zd hg gmzkhflmegb, ktb kz xgkwg vlze lzm tgluehdom;
ktb lzm xdozm hgltu zeg ogmdozm dp dso melxm velwe kog gnxfdcgb lt zeg
eluefc lnxdozktz zokbg dp zeg plmegolgm, zelm wdnngowlkf wdtjgtzldt wkt
tdz hsz hg dp uogkz kbjktzkug zd dso pgffdv wlzlqgtm gtukugb lt zekz
xgolfdsm hsz xodplzkhfg hsmltgmm.

Dso wdnngowg vlze zeg tgluehdoltu Mzkzg dp Xgos, dvltu zd zeg dtgodsm
bszlgm fgjlgb dt dso xoltwlxkf kozlwfgm dp gyxdoz, ekm hggt dt zeg
bgwfltg, ktb kff gtbgkjdom zd xodwsog kt kfzgokzldt ekjg elzegozd
xodjgb poslzfgmm. Vlze Hdfljlk vg ekjg cgz td blxfdnkzlw ltzgowdsomg,
ktb zeg wdtzltskf wdtzgmzm wkoolgb dt hgzvggt lz ktb Xgos ekjg nkbg ng
bgpgo stzlf k ndog pkjdokhfg xgoldb zeg kxxdltzngtz dp ktc kugtz pdo
zekz xsoxdmg.

Kt kwz dp kzodwldsm xlokwc ekjltu hggt wdnnlzzgb dt dtg dp dso zokbltu
melxm hc zeg ltekhlzktzm dp k mgzzfgngtz dt zeg vgmz wdkmz dp Msnkzok,
k polukzg vkm blmxkzwegb vlze dobgom zd bgnktb mkzlmpkwzldt pdo zeg
ltrsoc lp zedmg ved wdnnlzzgb lz medsfb hg pdstb zd hg ngnhgom dp k
ogusfko udjgotngtz, wkxkhfg dp nkltzkltltu zeg smskf ogfkzldtm vlze
pdoglut tkzldtm; hsz lp, km lz vkm msxxdmgb ktb km zegc xodjgb zd hg,
zegc vgog k hktb dp fkvfgmm xlokzgm, zd ltpflwz mswe k wekmzlmgngtz km
vdsfb bgzgo zegn ktb dzegom podn flag kuuogmmldtm. Zelm fkmz vkm bdtg,
ktb zeg gppgwz ekm hggt kt ltwogkmgb ogmxgwz pdo dso pfku lt zedmg
blmzktz mgkm ktb kbblzldtkf mgwsolzc pdo dso wdnngowg.

Lt zeg jlgv L ekjg uljgt dp dso wdttgwzldt vlze pdoglut xdvgom
kffsmldtm ekjg hggt nkbg zd zeglo bdngmzlw blmzsohktwgm do pdoglut
vkom, zd zeglo ogjdfszldtm do blmmgtmldtm. Lz nkc hg xodxgo zd dhmgojg
zekz zelm lm bdtg mdfgfc lt wkmgm vegog zedmg gjgtzm kppgwz dso
xdflzlwkf ogfkzldtm vlze zegn, do zd medv zeglo dxgokzldt dt dso
wdnngowg. Psozego zekt zelm lz lm tglzego dso xdflwc tdo dso oluez zd
ltzgopgog. Dso hgmz vlmegm dt kff dwwkmldtm, dso uddb dpplwgm vegt
ogislogb, vlff hg kppdobgb zd xodndzg zeg bdngmzlw zoktislfflzc ktb
pdoglut xgkwg dp kff tkzldtm vlze vedn vg ekjg ktc ltzgowdsomg. Ktc
ltzgojgtzldt lt zeglo kppklom psozego zekt zelm, gjgt hc zeg gyxogmmldt
dp kt dpplwlkf dxltldt, lm wdtzokoc zd dso xoltwlxfgm dp ltzgotkzldtkf
xdflwc, ktb vlff kfvkcm hg kjdlbgb.

Zeg ogxdoz velwe zeg Mgwogzkoc dp zeg Zogkmsoc vlff lt bsg zlng fkc
hgpdog cds vlff gyelhlz zeg tkzldtkf pltktwgm lt k eluefc xodmxgodsm
mzkzg. Dvltu zd zeg wdtzltsgb mswwgmm dp dso wdnngowlkf gtzgoxolmg,
velwe ekm gtkhfgb zeg ngowektzm zd psfplff zeglo gtukugngtzm vlze zeg
Udjgotngtz, zeg ogwglxzm podn wsmzdnm bsoltu zeg cgko vlff gywggb zeg
gmzlnkzg xogmgtzgb kz zeg fkmz mgmmldt, ktb vlze zeg dzego ngktm dp zeg
Zogkmsoc vlff xodjg psffc kbgiskzg tdz dtfc zd nggz zeg ltwogkmgb
gyxgtblzsogm ogmsfzltu podn zeg fkoug kxxodxolkzldtm nkbg hc Wdtuogmm,
hsz zd xodjlbg pdo zeg xkcngtz dp kff zeg xshflw bghz velwe lm kz
xogmgtz ogbggnkhfg.

Lz lm tdv gmzlnkzgb zekz zeg wsmzdnm vlff clgfb zd zeg Zogkmsoc bsoltu
zeg xogmgtz cgko sxvkob dp $28,000,000. Zeg xshflw fktbm, edvgjgo, ekjg
xodjgb fgmm xodbswzljg zekt vkm ktzlwlxkzgb, ktb kwwdobltu zd xogmgtz
ltpdonkzldt vlff tdz nswe gywggb $2,000,000. Zeg gyxgtblzsogm pdo kff
dhrgwzm dzego zekt zeg xshflw bghz kog gmzlnkzgb zd kndstz bsoltu zeg
cgko zd khdsz $16,500,000, velfg k mzlff fkougo msn, jlq, $18,000,000,
vlff ekjg hggt kxxflgb zd zeg xoltwlxkf ktb ltzgogmz dp zeg xshflw
bghz.  Lz lm gyxgwzgb, edvgjgo, zekz lt wdtmgisgtwg dp zeg ogbswgb
okzgm dp bszc velwe vlff zkag gppgwz kpzgo Nkowe 3b, 1833 zegog vlff hg
k wdtmlbgokhfg pkffltu dpp lt zeg ogjgtsg podn wsmzdnm lt zeg cgko
1833. Lz vlff tgjgo zeg fgmm hg knxfc mspplwlgtz zd xodjlbg pdo kff zeg
vktzm dp zeg xshflw mgojlwg, gmzlnkzgb gjgt sxdt k flhgokf mwkfg, ktb
pdo zeg ogbgnxzldt ktb xsowekmg dp zeg ognkltbgo dp zeg xshflw bghz. Dt
Rktskoc 1mz, 1833 zeg gtzlog xshflw bghz dp zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm, pstbgb
ktb stpstbgb, vlff hg ogbswgb zd vlzelt k pokwzldt dp $7,000,000, dp
velwe $2,227,363 kog tdz dp oluez ogbggnkhfg stzlf Rktskoc 1mz, 1834
ktb $4,735,296 tdz stzlf Rktskoc 2b, 1835. Zeg wdnnlmmldtgom dp zeg
mltaltu pstbm, edvgjgo, hgltu ltjgmzgb vlze psff kszedolzc zd xsowekmg
zeg bghz kz zeg nkoagz xolwg, ktb zeg ngktm dp zeg Zogkmsoc hgltu
knxfg, lz nkc hg edxgb zekz zeg vedfg vlff hg gyzltuslmegb vlzelt zeg
cgko 1833.

L wkt tdz zdd wdoblkffc wdtuokzsfkzg Wdtuogmm ktb nc pgffdv wlzlqgtm dt
zeg tgko kxxodkwe dp zekz ngndokhfg ktb ekxxc gjgtz--zeg gyzltwzldt dp
zeg xshflw bghz dp zelm uogkz ktb pogg tkzldt.

Pklzepsf zd zeg vlmg ktb xkzoldzlw xdflwc nkoagb dsz hc zeg fgulmfkzldt
dp zeg wdstzoc pdo zelm dhrgwz, zeg xogmgtz Kbnltlmzokzldt ekm bgjdzgb
zd lz kff zeg ngktm velwe k pfdsolmeltu wdnngowg ekm msxxflgb ktb k
xosbgtz gwdtdnc xogmgojgb pdo zeg xshflw Zogkmsoc. Vlzelt zeg pdso
cgkom pdo velwe zeg xgdxfg ekjg wdtplbgb zeg Gygwszljg xdvgo zd nc
wekoug $58,000,000 vlff ekjg hggt kxxflgb zd zeg xkcngtz dp zeg xshflw
bghz. Zekz zelm ekm hggt kwwdnxflmegb vlzedsz mzltzltu zeg gyxgtblzsogm
pdo kff dzego xodxgo dhrgwzm vlff hg mggt hc ogpgooltu zd zeg flhgokf
xodjlmldt nkbg bsoltu zeg mkng xgoldb pdo zeg msxxdoz ktb ltwogkmg dp
dso ngktm dp nkolzlng ktb nlflzkoc bgpgtmg, pdo ltzgotkf lnxodjgngtzm
dp k tkzldtkf wekokwzgo, pdo zeg ogndjkf ktb xogmgojkzldt dp zeg
Ltblktm, ktb, fkmzfc, pdo zeg ukffktz jgzgoktm dp zeg Ogjdfszldt.

Zeg pltkf ogndjkf dp zelm uogkz hsozegt podn dso ogmdsowgm kppdobm zeg
ngktm dp psozego xodjlmldt pdo kff zeg dhrgwzm dp ugtgokf vgfpkog ktb
xshflw bgpgtmg velwe zeg Wdtmzlzszldt kszedolqgm, ktb xogmgtzm zeg
dwwkmldt pdo mswe psozego ogbswzldtm lt zeg ogjgtsg km nkc tdz hg
ogislogb pdo zegn. Podn zeg ogxdoz dp zeg Mgwogzkoc dp zeg Zogkmsoc lz
vlff hg mggt zekz kpzgo zeg xogmgtz cgko mswe k ogbswzldt nkc hg nkbg
zd k wdtmlbgokhfg gyzgtz, ktb zeg mshrgwz lm gkotgmzfc ogwdnngtbgb zd
zeg wdtmlbgokzldt dp Wdtuogmm lt zeg edxg zekz zeg wdnhltgb vlmbdn dp
zeg ogxogmgtzkzljgm dp zeg xgdxfg vlff bgjlmg mswe ngktm dp gppgwzltu
zekz mkfszkoc dhrgwz km nkc ogndjg zedmg hsozegtm velwe mekff hg pdstb
zd pkff stgiskffc sxdt ktc ktb km nkc xodndzg kff zeg uogkz ltzgogmzm
dp zeg wdnnstlzc.

Fdtu ktb xkzlgtz ogpfgwzldt ekm mzogtuzegtgb zeg dxltldtm L ekjg
egogzdpdog gyxogmmgb zd Wdtuogmm dt zelm mshrgwz, ktb L bggn lz nc bszc
dt zeg xogmgtz dwwkmldt kuklt zd soug zegn sxdt zeg kzzgtzldt dp zeg
Fgulmfkzsog. Zeg mdstbgmz nkylnm dp xshflw xdflwc ktb zeg xoltwlxkfm
sxdt velwe dso ogxshflwkt ltmzlzszldtm kog pdstbgb ogwdnngtb k xodxgo
kbkxzkzldt dp zeg ogjgtsg zd zeg gyxgtblzsog, ktb zegc kfmd ogislog
zekz zeg gyxgtblzsog mekff hg flnlzgb zd vekz, hc kt gwdtdnlwkf
kbnltlmzokzldt, mekff hg wdtmlmzgtz vlze zeg mlnxflwlzc dp zeg
Udjgotngtz ktb tgwgmmkoc zd kt gpplwlgtz xshflw mgojlwg.

Lt gppgwzltu zelm kbrsmzngtz lz lm bsg, lt rsmzlwg zd zeg ltzgogmzm dp
zeg blppgogtz Mzkzgm, ktb gjgt zd zeg xogmgojkzldt dp zeg Stldt lzmgfp,
zekz zeg xodzgwzldt kppdobgb hc gylmzltu fkvm zd ktc hoktwegm dp zeg
tkzldtkf ltbsmzoc medsfb tdz gywggb vekz nkc hg tgwgmmkoc zd wdstzgokwz
zeg ogusfkzldtm dp pdoglut tkzldtm ktb zd mgwsog k msxxfc dp zedmg
kozlwfgm dp nktspkwzsog gmmgtzlkf zd zeg tkzldtkf ltbgxgtbgtwg ktb
mkpgzc lt zlng dp vko. Lp sxdt ltjgmzlukzldt lz mekff hg pdstb, km lz
lm hgflgjgb lz vlff hg, zekz zeg fgulmfkzljg xodzgwzldt uoktzgb zd ktc
xkozlwsfko ltzgogmz lm uogkzgo zekt lm ltblmxgtmkhfc ogislmlzg pdo
zegmg dhrgwzm, L ogwdnngtb zekz lz hg uokbskffc blnltlmegb, ktb zekz km
pko km nkc hg wdtmlmzgtz vlze zegmg dhrgwzm zeg vedfg mwegng dp bszlgm
hg ogbswgb zd zeg ogjgtsg mzktbkob km mddt km k rsmz ogukob zd zeg
pklze dp zeg Udjgotngtz ktb zd zeg xogmgojkzldt dp zeg fkoug wkxlzkf
ltjgmzgb lt gmzkhflmengtzm dp bdngmzlw ltbsmzoc vlff xgonlz.

Zekz nktspkwzsogm kbgiskzg zd zeg msxxfc dp dso bdngmzlw wdtmsnxzldt
vdsfb lt zeg khmzokwz hg hgtgplwlkf zd dso wdstzoc zegog lm td ogkmdt
zd bdshz, ktb zd gppgwz zeglo gmzkhflmengtz zegog lm xgoekxm td
Kngolwkt wlzlqgt ved vdsfb tdz pdo k velfg hg vlffltu zd xkc k eluego
xolwg pdo zegn. Hsz pdo zelm xsoxdmg lz lm xogmsngb zekz k zkolpp dp
elue bszlgm, bgmlutgb pdo xgoxgzskf xodzgwzldt, velwe zegc nkltzklt ekm
zeg gppgwz zd ogbswg zeg xolwg hc bdngmzlw wdnxgzlzldt hgfdv zekz dp
zeg pdoglut kozlwfg. Gyxgolgtwg, edvgjgo, dso hgmz uslbg dt zelm km dt
dzego mshrgwzm, nkagm lz bdshzpsf vegzego zeg kbjktzkugm dp zelm mcmzgn
kog tdz wdstzgo-hkfktwgb hc nktc gjlfm, ktb vegzego lz bdgm tdz zgtb zd
hgugz lt zeg nltbm dp k fkoug xdozldt dp dso wdstzoc-ngt k mxlolz dp
blmwdtzgtz ktb rgkfdsmc bktugodsm zd zeg mzkhlflzc dp zeg Stldt.

Vekz, zegt, mekff hg bdtg? Fkoug ltzgogmzm ekjg uodvt sx stbgo zeg
lnxflgb xfgbug dp dso tkzldtkf fgulmfkzldt, velwe lz vdsfb mggn k
jldfkzldt dp xshflw pklze msbbgtfc zd khktbdt. Tdzeltu wdsfb rsmzlpc lz
hsz zeg xshflw mkpgzc, velwe lm zeg msxogng fkv. Hsz zedmg ved ekjg
jgmzgb zeglo wkxlzkf lt nktspkwzsoltu gmzkhflmengtzm wkt tdz gyxgwz
zekz zeg xgdxfg vlff wdtzltsg xgonktgtzfc zd xkc elue zkygm pdo zeglo
hgtgplz, vegt zeg ndtgc lm tdz ogislogb pdo ktc fgulzlnkzg xsoxdmg lt
zeg kbnltlmzokzldt dp zeg Udjgotngtz. Lm lz tdz gtdsue zekz zeg elue
bszlgm ekjg hggt xklb km fdtu km zeg ndtgc kolmltu podn zegn wdsfb hg
kxxflgb zd zeg wdnndt hgtgplz lt zeg gyzltuslmengtz dp zeg xshflw bghz?

Zedmg ved zkag kt gtfkougb jlgv dp zeg wdtblzldt dp dso wdstzoc nsmz hg
mkzlmplgb zekz zeg xdflwc dp xodzgwzldt nsmz hg sfzlnkzgfc flnlzgb zd
zedmg kozlwfgm dp bdngmzlw nktspkwzsog velwe kog ltblmxgtmkhfg zd dso
mkpgzc lt zlng dp vko. Vlzelt zelm mwdxg, dt k ogkmdtkhfg mwkfg, lz lm
ogwdnngtbgb hc gjgoc wdtmlbgokzldt dp xkzoldzlmn ktb bszc, velwe vlff
bdshzfgmm kfvkcm mgwsog zd lz k flhgokf ktb gpplwlgtz msxxdoz. Hsz
hgcdtb zelm dhrgwz vg ekjg kfogkbc mggt zeg dxgokzldt dp zeg mcmzgn
xodbswzljg dp blmwdtzgtz. Lt mdng mgwzldtm dp zeg Ogxshflw lzm
ltpfsgtwg lm bgxogwkzgb km zgtbltu zd wdtwgtzokzg vgkfze ltzd k pgv
ektbm, ktb km wogkzltu zedmg ugonm dp bgxgtbgtwg ktb jlwg velwe lt
dzego wdstzolgm ekjg wekokwzgolqgb zeg gylmzgtwg dp ndtdxdflgm ktb
xodjgb md bgmzoswzljg dp flhgozc ktb zeg ugtgokf uddb. K fkoug xdozldt
dp zeg xgdxfg lt dtg mgwzldt dp zeg Ogxshflw bgwfkogm lz tdz dtfc
ltgyxgblgtz dt zegmg uodstbm, hsz km blmzsohltu zeg giskf ogfkzldtm dp
xodxgozc hc fgulmfkzldt, ktb zegogpdog stwdtmzlzszldtkf ktb strsmz.

Bdshzfgmm zegmg gppgwzm kog lt k uogkz bguogg gykuugokzgb, ktb nkc hg
kmwolhgb zd k nlmzkagt jlgv dp zeg wdtmlbgokzldtm velwe fgb zd zeg
kbdxzldt dp zeg zkolpp mcmzgn; hsz zegc kog tgjgo zeg fgmm lnxdozktz lt
gtkhfltu sm zd ogjlgv zeg mshrgwz vlze k ndog zedodsue atdvfgbug dp kff
lzm hgkoltum sxdt zeg uogkz ltzgogmzm dp zeg Ogxshflw, ktb vlze k
bgzgonltkzldt zd blmxdmg dp lz md zekz tdtg wkt vlze rsmzlwg wdnxfklt.

Lz lm nc xkltpsf bszc zd mzkzg zekz lt dtg iskozgo dp zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm
dxxdmlzldt zd zeg ogjgtsg fkvm ekm kolmgt zd k egluez velwe zeogkzgtm
zd zevkoz zeglo gygwszldt, lp tdz zd gtbktugo zeg ltzguolzc dp zeg
Stldt. Vekz gjgo dhmzoswzldtm nkc hg zeodvt lt zeg vkc dp zeg rsblwlkf
kszedolzlgm dp zeg Ugtgokf Udjgotngtz, lz lm edxgb zegc vlff hg khfg
xgkwgkhfc zd djgowdng zegn hc zeg xosbgtwg dp zeglo dvt dpplwgom ktb
zeg xkzoldzlmn dp zeg xgdxfg. Hsz medsfb zelm ogkmdtkhfg ogflktwg dt
zeg ndbgokzldt ktb uddb mgtmg dp kff xdozldtm dp dso pgffdv wlzlqgtm hg
blmkxxdltzgb, lz lm hgflgjgb zekz zeg fkvm zegnmgfjgm kog psffc
kbgiskzg zd zeg msxxogmmldt dp mswe kzzgnxzm km nkc hg lnngblkzgfc
nkbg. Medsfb zeg gylugtwc kolmg ogtbgoltu zeg gygwszldt dp zeg gylmzltu
fkvm lnxokwzlwkhfg podn ktc wksmg vekz gjgo, xodnxz tdzlwg dp lz vlff
hg uljgt zd Wdtuogmm, vlze k msuugmzldt dp mswe jlgvm ktb ngkmsogm km
nkc hg bggngb tgwgmmkoc zd nggz lz.

Lt wdtpdonlzc vlze xoltwlxfgm egogzdpdog gyxfkltgb, ktb vlze zeg edxg
dp ogbswltu zeg Ugtgokf Udjgotngtz zd zekz mlnxfg nkweltg velwe zeg
Wdtmzlzszldt wogkzgb ktb dp vlzebokvltu podn zeg Mzkzgm kff dzego
ltpfsgtwg zekt zekz dp lzm stljgomkf hgtgplwgtwg lt xogmgojltu xgkwg,
kppdobltu kt stlpdon wsoogtwc, nkltzkltltu zeg ltjldfkhlflzc dp
wdtzokwzm, blppsmltu ltzgfflugtwg, ktb blmwekoultu stpgfz lzm dzego
msxgo-ltzgtbltu pstwzldtm, L ogwdnngtb zekz xodjlmldt hg nkbg zd
blmxdmg dp kff mzdwam tdv egfb hc lz lt wdoxdokzldtm, vegzego wogkzgb
hc zeg Ugtgokf do Mzkzg Udjgotngtzm, ktb xfkwltu zeg xodwggbm lt zeg
Zogkmsoc. Km k mdsowg dp xodplz zegmg mzdwam kog dp flzzfg do td jkfsg;
km k ngktm dp ltpfsgtwg kndtu zeg Mzkzgm zegc kog kbjgomg zd zeg xsolzc
dp dso ltmzlzszldtm. Zeg vedfg xoltwlxfg dt velwe zegc kog hkmgb lm
bggngb hc nktc stwdtmzlzszldtkf, ktb zd xgomlmz lt zeg xdflwc velwe
zegc ltblwkzg lm wdtmlbgogb vedffc ltgyxgblgtz.

Lz lm nc bszc zd kwiskltz cds vlze kt kooktugngtz nkbg hc zeg Hkta dp
zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm vlze k xdozldt dp zeg edfbgom dp zeg 3% mzdwa, hc
velwe zeg Udjgotngtz vlff hg bgxoljgb dp zeg smg dp zeg xshflw pstbm
fdtugo zekt vkm ktzlwlxkzgb. Hc zelm kooktugngtz, velwe vlff hg
xkozlwsfkofc gyxfkltgb hc zeg Mgwogzkoc dp zeg Zogkmsoc, k msoogtbgo dp
zeg wgozlplwkzgm dp zelm mzdwa nkc hg xdmzxdtgb stzlf Dwzdhgo, 1833,
ktb zesm nkc hg wdtzltsgb hc zeg pklfsog dp zeg hkta zd xgopdon lzm
bszlgm.

Mswe ngkmsogm km kog vlzelt zeg ogkwe dp zeg Mgwogzkoc dp zeg Zogkmsoc
ekjg hggt zkagt zd gtkhfg eln zd rsbug vegzego zeg xshflw bgxdmlzm lt
zekz ltmzlzszldt nkc hg ogukobgb km gtzlogfc mkpg; hsz km elm flnlzgb
xdvgo nkc xodjg ltkbgiskzg zd zelm dhrgwz, L ogwdnngtb zeg mshrgwz zd
zeg kzzgtzldt dp Wdtuogmm, stbgo zeg plon hgflgp zekz lz lm vdozec dp
zeglo mgoldsm ltjgmzlukzldt. Kt ltisloc ltzd zeg zoktmkwzldtm dp zeg
ltmzlzszldt, gnhokwltu zeg hoktwegm km vgff km zeg xoltwlxkf hkta,
mggnm wkffgb pdo hc zeg wogblz velwe lm uljgt zeodsuedsz zeg wdstzoc zd
nktc mgoldsm wekougm lnxgkweltu lzm wekokwzgo, ktb velwe lp zosg nkc
rsmzfc gywlzg zeg kxxogegtmldt zekz lz lm td fdtugo k mkpg bgxdmlzdoc
dp zeg ndtgc dp zeg xgdxfg.

Kndtu zeg ltzgogmzm velwe ngolz zeg wdtmlbgokzldt dp Wdtuogmm kpzgo zeg
xkcngtz dp zeg xshflw bghz, dtg dp zeg ndmz lnxdozktz, lt nc jlgv, lm
zekz dp zeg xshflw fktbm. Xogjldsm zd zeg pdonkzldt dp dso xogmgtz
Wdtmzlzszldt lz vkm ogwdnngtbgb hc Wdtuogmm zekz k xdozldt dp zeg vkmzg
fktbm dvtgb hc zeg Mzkzgm medsfb hg wgbgb zd zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm pdo zeg
xsoxdmgm dp ugtgokf ekondtc ktb km k pstb zd nggz zeg gyxgtmgm dp zeg
vko. Zeg ogwdnngtbkzldt vkm kbdxzgb, ktb kz blppgogtz xgoldbm dp zlng
zeg Mzkzgm dp Nkmmkwesmgzzm, Tgv Cdoa, Jloultlk, Tdoze ktb Mdsze
Wkodfltk, ktb Ugdoulk uoktzgb zeglo jkwktz mdlf pdo zeg smgm pdo velwe
zegc ekb hggt kmagb. Km zeg fktbm nkc tdv hg wdtmlbgogb km ogflgjgb
podn zelm xfgbug, lz lm lt zeg blmwogzldt dp Wdtuogmm zd blmxdmg dp
zegn lt mswe vkc km hgmz zd wdtbswg zd zeg islgz, ekondtc, ktb ugtgokf
ltzgogmz dp zeg Kngolwkt xgdxfg. Lt gyknltltu zelm isgmzldt kff fdwkf
ktb mgwzldtkf pggfltum medsfb hg blmwkobgb ktb zeg vedfg Stlzgb Mzkzgm
ogukobgb km dtg xgdxfg, ltzgogmzgb kflag lt zeg xodmxgolzc dp zeglo
wdnndt wdstzoc.

Lz wkt tdz hg bdshzgb zekz zeg mxggbc mgzzfgngtz dp zegmg fktbm
wdtmzlzszgm zeg zosg ltzgogmz dp zeg Ogxshflw. Zeg vgkfze ktb mzogtuze
dp k wdstzoc kog lzm xdxsfkzldt, ktb zeg hgmz xkoz dp zekz xdxsfkzldt
kog wsfzljkzdom dp zeg mdlf. Ltbgxgtbgtz pkongom kog gjgoc vegog zeg
hkmlm dp mdwlgzc ktb zosg polgtbm dp flhgozc.

Lt kbblzldt zd zegmg wdtmlbgokzldtm isgmzldtm ekjg kfogkbc kolmgt, ktb
nkc hg gyxgwzgb egogkpzgo zd uodv dsz dp zeg xshflw fktbm, velwe
ltjdfjg zeg oluezm dp zeg tgv Mzkzgm ktb zeg xdvgom dp zeg Ugtgokf
Udjgotngtz, ktb stfgmm k flhgokf xdflwc hg tdv kbdxzgb zegog lm bktugo
zekz zegmg isgmzldtm nkc mxggblfc kmmsng kt lnxdozktwg tdz tdv
ugtgokffc ktzlwlxkzgb. Zeg ltpfsgtwg dp k uogkz mgwzldtkf ltzgogmz,
vegt hodsuez ltzd psff kwzldt, vlff hg pdstb ndog bktugodsm zd zeg
ekondtc ktb stldt dp zeg Mzkzgm zekt ktc dzego wksmg dp blmwdtzgtz, ktb
lz lm zeg xkoz dp vlmbdn ktb mdstb xdflwc zd pdogmgg lzm kxxodkwegm ktb
gtbgkjdo lp xdmmlhfg zd wdstzgokwz zegn.

Dp zeg jkoldsm mwegngm velwe ekjg hggt elzegozd xodxdmgb lt ogukob zd
zeg blmxdmkf dp zeg xshflw fktbm, tdtg ekm cgz ogwgljgb zeg gtzlog
kxxodhkzldt dp zeg Tkzldtkf Fgulmfkzsog. Bggxfc lnxogmmgb vlze zeg
lnxdozktwg dp k mxggbc ktb mkzlmpkwzdoc kooktugngtz dp zeg mshrgwz, L
bggn lz nc bszc dt zelm dwwkmldt zd soug lz sxdt cdso wdtmlbgokzldt,
ktb zd zeg xodxdmlzldtm velwe ekjg hggt egogzdpdog msuugmzgb hc dzegom
zd wdtzolhszg zedmg ogpfgwzldtm velwe ekjg dwwsoogb zd ng, lt zeg edxg
zekz zegc nkc kmmlmz cds lt cdso pszsog bgflhgokzldtm.

Lz mggnm zd ng zd hg dso xdflwc zekz zeg xshflw fktbm mekff wgkmg km
mddt km xokwzlwkhfg zd hg k mdsowg dp ogjgtsg, ktb zekz zegc hg mdfb zd
mgzzfgom lt flnlzgb xkowgfm kz k xolwg hkogfc mspplwlgtz zd oglnhsomg
zd zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm zeg gyxgtmg dp zeg xogmgtz mcmzgn ktb zeg wdmz
kolmltu stbgo dso Ltblkt wdnxkwzm. Zeg kbjktzkugm dp kwwsokzg msojgcm
ktb stbdshzgb zlzfgm tdv mgwsogb zd xsowekmgom mggn zd pdohlb zeg
khdflzldt dp zeg xogmgtz mcmzgn, hgwksmg tdtg wkt hg mshmzlzszgb velwe
vlff ndog xgopgwzfc kwwdnxflme zegmg lnxdozktz gtbm. Lz lm bgmlokhfg,
edvgjgo, zekz lt wdtjgtlgtz zlng zelm nkweltgoc hg vlzebokvt podn zeg
Mzkzgm, ktb zekz zeg oluez dp mdlf ktb zeg pszsog blmxdmlzldt dp lz hg
msoogtbgogb zd zeg Mzkzgm ogmxgwzljgfc lt velwe lz flgm.

Zeg kbjgtzsodsm ktb ekobc xdxsfkzldt dp zeg Vgmz, hgmlbgm wdtzolhszltu
zeglo giskf mekog dp zkykzldt stbgo dso lnxdmz mcmzgn, ekjg lt zeg
xoduogmm dp dso Udjgotngtz, pdo zeg fktbm zegc dwwsxc, xklb ltzd zeg
Zogkmsoc k fkoug xodxdozldt dp $40,000,000, ktb dp zeg ogjgtsg ogwgljgb
zegogpodn hsz k mnkff xkoz ekm hggt gyxgtbgb kndtu zegn. Vegt zd zeg
blmkbjktzkug dp zeglo mlzskzldt lt zelm ogmxgwz vg kbb zeg
wdtmlbgokzldt zekz lz lm zeglo fkhdo kfdtg velwe uljgm ogkf jkfsg zd
zeg fktbm, ktb zekz zeg xodwggbm kolmltu podn zeglo mkfg kog
blmzolhszgb welgpfc kndtu Mzkzgm velwe ekb tdz dolultkffc ktc wfkln zd
zegn, ktb velwe ekjg gtrdcgb zeg stbljlbgb gndfsngtz kolmltu podn zeg
mkfg dp zeglo dvt fktbm, lz wkt tdz hg gyxgwzgb zekz zeg tgv Mzkzgm
vlff ognklt fdtugo wdtzgtzgb vlze zeg xogmgtz xdflwc kpzgo zeg xkcngtz
dp zeg xshflw bghz. Zd kjgoz zeg wdtmgisgtwgm velwe nkc hg kxxogegtbgb
podn zelm wksmg, zd xsh kt gtb pdo gjgo zd kff xkozlkf ktb ltzgogmzgb
fgulmfkzldt dt zeg mshrgwz, ktb zd kppdob zd gjgoc Kngolwkt wlzlqgt dp
gtzgoxolmg zeg dxxdozstlzc dp mgwsoltu kt ltbgxgtbgtz poggedfb, lz
mggnm zd ng, zegogpdog, hgmz zd khktbdt zeg lbgk dp oklmltu k pszsog
ogjgtsg dsz dp zeg xshflw fktbm.

Lt pdongo ngmmkugm L ekjg gyxogmmgb nc wdtjlwzldt zekz zeg Wdtmzlzszldt
bdgm tdz vkooktz zeg kxxflwkzldt dp zeg pstbm dp zeg Ugtgokf Udjgotngtz
zd dhrgwzm dp ltzgotkf lnxodjgngtz velwe kog tdz tkzldtkf lt zeglo
wekokwzgo, ktb, hdze km k ngktm dp bdltu rsmzlwg zd kff ltzgogmzm ktb
xszzltu kt gtb zd k wdsomg dp fgulmfkzldt wkfwsfkzgb zd bgmzodc zeg
xsolzc dp zeg Udjgotngtz, ekjg sougb zeg tgwgmmlzc dp ogbswltu zeg
vedfg mshrgwz zd mdng plygb ktb wgozklt osfg. Km zegog tgjgo vlff dwwso
k xgoldb, xgoekxm, ndog xodxlzldsm zekt zeg xogmgtz zd zeg
kwwdnxflmengtz dp zelm dhrgwz, L hgu fgkjg zd xogmm zeg mshrgwz kuklt
sxdt cdso kzzgtzldt.

Vlzedsz mdng ugtgokf ktb vgff-bgpltgb xoltwlxfgm kmwgozkltltu zedmg
dhrgwzm dp ltzgotkf lnxodjgngtz zd velwe zeg ngktm dp zeg tkzldt nkc hg
wdtmzlzszldtkffc kxxflgb, lz lm dhjldsm zekz zeg gygowlmg dp zeg xdvgo
wkt tgjgo hg mkzlmpkwzdoc. Hgmlbgm zeg bktugo zd velwe lz gyxdmgm
Wdtuogmm dp nkaltu ekmzc kxxodxolkzldtm zd vdoam dp zeg wekokwzgo dp
velwe zegc nkc hg pogisgtzfc lutdoktz, lz xodndzgm k nlmwelgjdsm ktb
wdoosxzltu ltpfsgtwg sxdt gfgwzldtm hc edfbltu dsz zd zeg xgdxfg zeg
pkffkwldsm edxg zekz zeg mswwgmm dp k wgozklt wktblbkzg vlff nkag
tkjlukhfg zeglo tgluehdoltu wogga do oljgo, holtu wdnngowg zd zeglo
bddom, ktb ltwogkmg zeg jkfsg dp zeglo xodxgozc. Lz zesm pkjdom
wdnhltkzldtm zd misktbgo zeg zogkmsog dp zeg wdstzoc sxdt k nsfzlzsbg
dp fdwkf dhrgwzm, km pkzkf zd rsmz fgulmfkzldt km zd zeg xsolzc dp
xshflw ngt.

Lp k mcmzgn wdnxkzlhfg vlze zeg Wdtmzlzszldt wkt tdz hg bgjlmgb velwe
lm pogg podn mswe zgtbgtwlgm, vg medsfb ogwdffgwz zekz zekz ltmzosngtz
xodjlbgm vlzelt lzmgfp zeg ndbg dp lzm kngtbngtz, ktb zekz zegog lm,
zegogpdog, td gywsmg pdo zeg kmmsnxzldt dp bdshzpsf xdvgom hc zeg
Ugtgokf Udjgotngtz. Lp zedmg velwe kog wfgkofc uoktzgb mekff hg pdstb
ltwdnxgzgtz zd zeg gtbm dp lzm wogkzldt, lz wkt kz ktc zlng kxxfc pdo
zeglo gtfkougngtz; ktb zegog lm td xodhkhlflzc zekz mswe kt
kxxflwkzldt, lp pdstbgb dt zeg xshflw ltzgogmz, vlff gjgo hg ogpsmgb.
Lp zeg xodxolgzc dp zeg xodxdmgb uoktz hg tdz mspplwlgtzfc kxxkogtz zd
wdnnktb zeg kmmgtz dp 3/4 dp zeg Mzkzgm, zeg hgmz xdmmlhfg ogkmdt vec
zeg xdvgo medsfb tdz hg kmmsngb dt bdshzpsf kszedolzc lm kppdobgb; pdo
lp ndog zekt dtg iskozgo dp zeg Mzkzgm kog stvlffltu zd nkag zeg uoktz
lzm gygowlmg vlff hg xodbswzljg dp blmwdtzgtzm velwe vlff pko
djgo-hkfktwg ktc kbjktzkugm zekz wdsfb hg bgoljgb podn lz. Kff nsmz
kbnlz zekz zegog lm tdzeltu md vdozec dp zeg wdtmzktz mdflwlzsbg dp
zelm Udjgotngtz km zeg ekondtc ktb stldt dp zeg xgdxfg.

Hgltu mdfgntfc lnxogmmgb vlze zeg wdtjlwzldt zekz zeg gyzgtmldt dp zeg
xdvgo zd nkag ltzgotkf lnxodjgngtzm hgcdtb zeg flnlz L ekjg msuugmzgb,
gjgt lp lz hg bggngb wdtmzlzszldtkf, lm mshjgomljg dp zeg hgmz
ltzgogmzm dp dso wdstzoc, L gkotgmzfc ogwdnngtb zd Wdtuogmm zd ogpoklt
podn lzm gygowlmg lt bdshzpsf wkmgm, gywgxz lt ogfkzldt zd lnxodjgngtzm
kfogkbc hgust, stfgmm zegc mekff plomz xodwsog podn zeg Mzkzgm mswe kt
kngtbngtz dp zeg Wdtmzlzszldt km vlff bgpltg lzm wekokwzgo ktb
xogmwolhg lzm hdstbm. Lp zeg Mzkzgm pggf zegnmgfjgm wdnxgzgtz zd zegmg
dhrgwzm, vec medsfb zelm Udjgotngtz vlme zd kmmsng zeg xdvgo? Lp zegc
bd tdz, zegt zegc vlff tdz egmlzkzg zd nkag zeg uoktz. Hdze Udjgotngtzm
kog zeg Udjgotngtzm dp zeg xgdxfg; lnxodjgngtzm nsmz hg nkbg vlze zeg
ndtgc dp zeg xgdxfg, ktb lp zeg ndtgc wkt hg wdffgwzgb ktb kxxflgb hc
zedmg ndog mlnxfg ktb gwdtdnlwkf xdflzlwkf nkweltgm, zeg Mzkzg
udjgotngtzm, lz vlff stisgmzldtkhfc hg mkpgo ktb hgzzgo pdo zeg xgdxfg
zekt zd kbb zd zeg mxfgtbdo, zeg xkzodtkug, ktb zeg xdvgo dp zeg
Ugtgokf Udjgotngtz. Hsz lp zeg xgdxfg dp zeg mgjgokf Mzkzgm zelta
dzegovlmg zegc vlff kngtb zeg Wdtmzlzszldt, ktb lt zeglo bgwlmldt kff
dsuez weggopsffc zd kwislgmwg.

Pdo k bgzklfgb ktb eluefc mkzlmpkwzdoc jlgv dp zeg dxgokzldtm dp zeg
Vko Bgxkozngtz L ogpgo cds zd zeg kwwdnxktcltu ogxdoz dp zeg Mgwogzkoc
dp Vko.

Zeg edmzlfg ltwsomldtm dp zeg Mkw ktb Pdy Ltblktm tgwgmmkolfc fgb zd
zeg ltzgoxdmlzldt dp zeg Udjgotngtz. K xdozldt dp zeg zoddxm, stbgo
Ugtgokfm Mwdzz ktb Kzaltmdt, ktb dp zeg nlflzlk dp zeg Mzkzg dp
Lffltdlm vgog wkffgb ltzd zeg plgfb. Kpzgo k ekokmmltu vkopkog,
xodfdtugb hc zeg tkzsog dp zeg wdstzoc ktb hc zeg blpplwsfzc dp
xodwsoltu mshmlmzgtwg, zeg Ltblktm vgog gtzlogfc bgpgkzgb, ktb zeg
blmkppgwzgb hktb blmxgomgb do bgmzodcgb. Zeg ogmsfz ekm hggt wogblzkhfg
zd zeg zoddxm gtukugb lt zeg mgojlwg. Mgjgog km lm zeg fgmmdt zd zeg
Ltblktm, lz vkm ogtbgogb tgwgmmkoc hc zeglo stxodjdagb kuuogmmldtm, ktb
lz lm zd hg edxgb zekz lzm lnxogmmldt vlff hg xgonktgtz ktb mkfszkoc.

Zelm wknxklut ekm gjltwgb zeg gpplwlgtz douktlqkzldt dp zeg Konc ktb
lzm wkxkwlzc pdo xodnxz ktb kwzljg mgojlwg. Lzm mgjgokf bgxkozngtzm
ekjg xgopdongb zeglo pstwzldtm vlze gtgouc ktb blmxkzwe, ktb zeg
ugtgokf ndjgngtz vkm mkzlmpkwzdoc.

Dso pgffdv wlzlqgtm sxdt zeg podtzlgom vgog ogkbc, km zegc kfvkcm kog,
lt zeg zgtbgo dp zeglo mgojlwgm lt zeg edso dp bktugo. Hsz k ndog
gpplwlgtz douktlqkzldt dp dso nlflzlk mcmzgn lm gmmgtzlkf zd zekz
mgwsolzc velwe lm dtg dp zeg xoltwlxkf dhrgwzm dp kff udjgotngtzm.
Tglzego dso mlzskzldt tdo dso ltmzlzszldtm ogislog do xgonlz zeg
nkltzgtktwg dp k fkoug ogusfko pdowg. Elmzdoc dppgom zdd nktc fgmmdtm
dp zeg pkzkf ogmsfz dp mswe k ngkmsog tdz zd vkot sm kukltmz lzm
kbdxzldt egog. Zeg gyxgtmg velwe kzzgtbm lz, zeg dhjldsm zgtbgtwc zd
gnxfdc lz hgwksmg lz gylmzm ktb zesm zd gtukug lt sttgwgmmkoc vkom, ktb
lzm sfzlnkzg bktugo zd xshflw flhgozc vlff fgkb sm, L zosmz, zd xfkwg
dso xoltwlxkf bgxgtbgtwg pdo xodzgwzldt sxdt zeg uogkz hdbc dp zeg
wlzlqgtm dp zeg Ogxshflw. Lp lt kmmgozltu oluezm do lt ogxgffltu vodtum
vko medsfb wdng sxdt sm, dso ogusfko pdowg medsfb hg ltwogkmgb zd kt
gyzgtz xodxdozldtkf zd zeg gngougtwc, ktb dso xogmgtz mnkff Konc lm k
tswfgsm kodstb velwe mswe pdowg wdsfb hg pdongb ktb gnhdblgb. Hsz pdo
zeg xsoxdmgm dp bgpgtmg stbgo dobltkoc wlowsnmzktwgm vg nsmz ogfc sxdt
zeg gfgwzdom dp zeg wdstzoc. Zedmg hc vedn ktb pdo vedn zeg Udjgotngtz
vkm ltmzlzszgb ktb lm msxxdozgb vlff wdtmzlzszg lzm xodzgwzldt lt zeg
edso dp bktugo km zegc bd lzm wegwa lt zeg edso dp mkpgzc.

Hsz lz lm dhjldsm zekz zeg nlflzlk mcmzgn lm lnxgopgwz. Nswe zlng lm
fdmz, nswe sttgwgmmkoc gyxgtmg ltwsoogb, ktb nswe xshflw xodxgozc
vkmzgb stbgo zeg xogmgtz kooktugngtz. Flzzfg smgpsf atdvfgbug lm ukltgb
hc zeg nsmzgom ktb bolffm km tdv gmzkhflmegb, ktb zeg vedfg mshrgwz
gjlbgtzfc ogislogm k zedodsue gyknltkzldt. Vegzego k xfkt dp
wfkmmlplwkzldt ogngbcltu zegmg bgpgwzm ktb xodjlbltu pdo k mcmzgn dp
ltmzoswzldt nluez tdz hg kbdxzgb lm mshnlzzgb zd zeg wdtmlbgokzldt dp
Wdtuogmm. Zeg Wdtmzlzszldt ekm jgmzgb lt zeg Ugtgokf Udjgotngtz kt
ltbgxgtbgtz kszedolzc sxdt zeg mshrgwz dp zeg nlflzlk velwe ogtbgom lzm
kwzldt gmmgtzlkf zd zeg gmzkhflmengtz do lnxodjgngtz dp zeg mcmzgn, ktb
L ogwdnngtb zeg nkzzgo zd cdso wdtmlbgokzldt lt zeg wdtjlwzldt zekz zeg
mzkzg dp zelm lnxdozktz kon dp zeg xshflw bgpgtmg ogislogm cdso
kzzgtzldt.

L kn ekxxc zd ltpdon cds zekz zeg vlmg ktb esnktg xdflwc dp
zoktmpgooltu podn zeg gkmzgot zd zeg vgmzgot mlbg dp zeg Nlmmlmmlxxl
zeg ogntktzm dp dso khdolultkf zolhgm, vlze zeglo dvt wdtmgtz ktb sxdt
rsmz zgonm, ekm hggt mzgkblfc xsomsgb, ktb lm kxxodkweltu, L zosmz, lzm
wdtmsnnkzldt. Hc ogpgogtwg zd zeg ogxdoz dp zeg Mgwogzkoc dp Vko ktb zd
zeg bdwsngtzm mshnlzzgb vlze lz cds vlff mgg zeg xoduogmm velwe ekm
hggt nkbg mltwg cdso fkmz mgmmldt lt zeg kooktugngtz dp zeg jkoldsm
nkzzgom wdttgwzgb vlze dso Ltblkt ogfkzldtm. Vlze dtg gywgxzldt gjgoc
mshrgwz ltjdfjltu ktc isgmzldt dp wdtpflwzltu rsolmblwzldt do dp
xgwsflko blpplwsfzc ekm hggt ekxxlfc blmxdmgb dp, ktb zeg wdtjlwzldt
gjlbgtzfc ukltm uodstb kndtu zeg Ltblktm zekz zeglo ogndjkf zd zeg
wdstzoc kmmlutgb hc zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm pdo zeglo xgonktgtz ogmlbgtwg
psotlmegm zeg dtfc edxg dp zeglo sfzlnkzg xodmxgolzc.

Vlze zekz xdozldt dp zeg Wegodaggm, edvgjgo, fljltu vlzelt zeg Mzkzg dp
Ugdoulk lz ekm hggt pdstb lnxokwzlwkhfg km cgz zd nkag k mkzlmpkwzdoc
kbrsmzngtz. Mswe vkm nc ktylgzc zd ogndjg kff zeg uodstbm dp wdnxfkltz
ktb zd holtu zd k zgonltkzldt zeg blpplwsfzlgm lt velwe zegc kog
ltjdfjgb zekz L blogwzgb zeg jgoc flhgokf xodxdmlzldtm zd hg nkbg zd
zegn velwe kwwdnxktc zeg bdwsngtzm egogvlze mshnlzzgb. Zegc wkt tdz hsz
ekjg mggt lt zegmg dppgom zeg gjlbgtwg dp zeg mzodtugmz blmxdmlzldt dt
zeg xkoz dp zeg Udjgotngtz zd bgkf rsmzfc ktb flhgokffc vlze zegn. Kt
knxfg ltbgntlzc vkm dppgogb pdo zeglo xogmgtz xdmmgmmldtm, k flhgokf
xodjlmldt pdo zeglo pszsog msxxdoz ktb lnxodjgngtz, ktb psff mgwsolzc
pdo zeglo xoljkzg ktb xdflzlwkf oluezm. Vekz gjgo blppgogtwg dp dxltldt
nkc ekjg xogjklfgb ogmxgwzltu zeg rsmz wfklnm dp zegmg xgdxfg, zegog
vlff xodhkhfc hg tdtg ogmxgwzltu zeg flhgokflzc dp zeg xodxdmlzldtm,
ktb jgoc flzzfg ogmxgwzltu zeg gyxgblgtwc dp zeglo lnngblkzg
kwwgxzktwg. Zegc vgog, edvgjgo, ogrgwzgb, ktb zesm zeg xdmlzldt dp
zegmg Ltblktm ognkltm stwektugb, km bd zeg jlgvm wdnnstlwkzgb lt nc
ngmmkug zd zeg Mgtkzg dp Pghoskoc 22b, 1831.

L ogpgo cds zd zeg kttskf ogxdoz dp zeg Mgwogzkoc dp zeg Tkjc, velwe
kwwdnxktlgm zelm ngmmkug, pdo k bgzklf dp zeg dxgokzldtm dp zekz hoktwe
dp zeg mgojlwg bsoltu zeg xogmgtz cgko.

Hgmlbgm zeg ugtgokf ognkoam dt mdng dp zeg zoktmkwzldtm dp dso Tkjc
xogmgtzgb lt zeg jlgv velwe ekm hggt zkagt dp dso pdoglut ogfkzldtm, L
mglqg zelm dwwkmldt zd ltjlzg zd cdso tdzlwg zeg ltwogkmgb xodzgwzldt
velwe lz ekm kppdobgb zd dso wdnngowg ktb wlzlqgtm dt blmzktz mgkm
vlzedsz ktc ksungtzkzldt dp zeg pdowg lt wdnnlmmldt. Lt zeg uokbskf
lnxodjgngtz dp lzm xgwstlkoc wdtwgotm, lt zeg wdtmzktz xoduogmm lt zeg
wdffgwzldt dp nkzgolkfm mslzkhfg pdo smg bsoltu pszsog gngougtwlgm, ktb
lt zeg wdtmzoswzldt dp jgmmgfm ktb zeg hslfbltum tgwgmmkoc zd zeglo
xogmgojkzldt ktb ogxklo, zeg xogmgtz mzkzg dp zelm hoktwe dp zeg
mgojlwg gyelhlzm zeg poslzm dp zekz jlulfktwg ktb wkog velwe kog md
ltblmxgtmkhfg zd lzm gpplwlgtwc. Jkoldsm tgv msuugmzldtm, wdtzkltgb lt
zeg kttgygb ogxdoz, km vgff km dzegom egogzdpdog zd Wdtuogmm, kog
vdozec dp cdso kzzgtzldt, hsz tdtg ndog md zekt zekz soultu zeg ogtgvkf
pdo ktdzego zgon dp mly cgkom dp zeg ugtgokf kxxodxolkzldt pdo zeg
uokbskf lnxodjgngtz dp zeg Tkjc.

Podn zeg kwwdnxktcltu ogxdoz dp zeg Xdmz Nkmzgo Ugtgokf cds vlff kfmd
xgowgljg zekz zekz Bgxkozngtz wdtzltsgm zd gyzgtb lzm smgpsftgmm
vlzedsz lnxkloltu lzm ogmdsowgm do fgmmgtltu zeg kwwdnndbkzldtm velwe
lz kppdobm lt zeg mgwsog ktb okxlb zoktmxdozkzldt dp zeg nklf.

L hgu fgkjg zd wkff zeg kzzgtzldt dp Wdtuogmm zd zeg jlgvm egogzdpdog
gyxogmmgb lt ogfkzldt zd zeg ndbg dp weddmltu zeg Xogmlbgtz ktb Jlwg-
Xogmlbgtz dp zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm, ktb zd zedmg ogmxgwzltu zeg zgtsog dp
dpplwg ugtgokffc. Mzlff lnxogmmgb vlze zeg rsmztgmm dp zedmg jlgvm ktb
vlze zeg hgflgp zekz zeg ndblplwkzldtm msuugmzgb dt zedmg mshrgwzm lp
kbdxzgb vlff wdtzolhszg zd zeg xodmxgolzc ktb ekondtc dp zeg wdstzoc, L
gkotgmzfc ogwdnngtb zegn zd cdso wdtmlbgokzldt kz zelm zlng.

L ekjg egogzdpdog xdltzgb dsz bgpgwzm lt zeg fkv pdo xstlmeltu dpplwlkf
poksbm, gmxgwlkffc vlzelt zeg Blmzolwz dp Wdfsnhlk. Lz ekm hggt pdstb
kfndmz lnxdmmlhfg zd holtu tdzdoldsm wsfxolzm zd xstlmengtz, ktb,
kwwdobltu zd k bgwlmldt dp zeg wdsoz pdo zelm Blmzolwz, k xodmgwszldt
lm hkoogb hc k fkxmg dp zvd cgkom kpzgo zeg poksb ekm hggt wdnnlzzgb.
Lz nkc ekxxgt kuklt, km lz ekm kfogkbc ekxxgtgb, zekz bsoltu zeg vedfg
zvd cgkom kff zeg gjlbgtwgm dp zeg poksb nkc hg lt zeg xdmmgmmldt dp
zeg wsfxolz elnmgfp. Edvgjgo xodxgo zeg flnlzkzldt nkc hg lt ogfkzldt
zd xoljkzg wlzlqgtm, lz vdsfb mggn zekz lz dsuez tdz zd wdnngtwg
osttltu lt pkjdo dp xshflw dpplwgom stzlf zegc ud dsz dp dpplwg.

Zeg rsblwlkoc mcmzgn dp zeg Stlzgb Mzkzgm ognkltm lnxgopgwz. Dp zeg 9
Vgmzgot ktb Mdsze Vgmzgot Mzkzgm, zeogg dtfc gtrdc zeg hgtgplzm dp k
wlowslz wdsoz. Deld, Agtzswac, ktb Zgttgmmgg kog gnhokwgb lt zeg
ugtgokf mcmzgn, hsz Ltblktk, Lffltdlm, Nlmmdsol, Kfkhknk, Nlmmlmmlxxl,
ktb Fdslmlktk ekjg dtfc blmzolwz wdsozm. Lp zeg gylmzltu mcmzgn hg k
uddb dtg, vec medsfb lz tdz hg gyzgtbgb? Lp lz hg k hkb dtg, vec lm lz
msppgogb zd gylmz? Zeg tgv Mzkzgm vgog xodnlmgb giskf oluezm ktb
xoljlfgugm vegt zegc wkng ltzd zeg Stldt, ktb mswe kog zeg uskoktzlgm
dp zeg Wdtmzlzszldt. Tdzeltu wkt hg ndog dhjldsm zekt zeg dhflukzldt dp
zeg Ugtgokf Udjgotngtz zd xfkwg kff zeg Mzkzgm dt zeg mkng pddzltu lt
ogfkzldt zd zeg kbnltlmzokzldt dp rsmzlwg, ktb L zosmz zelm bszc vlff
hg tgufgwzgb td fdtugo.

Dt nktc dp zeg mshrgwzm zd velwe cdso kzzgtzldt lm ltjlzgb lt zelm
wdnnstlwkzldt lz lm k mdsowg dp uokzlplwkzldt zd ogpfgwz zekz zeg mzgxm
zd hg tdv kbdxzgb kog stltpfsgtwgb hc zeg gnhkookmmngtzm gtzklfgb sxdt
zeg wdstzoc hc zeg vkom zeodsue velwe lz ekm xkmmgb. Lt ogukob zd ndmz
dp dso uogkz ltzgogmzm vg nkc wdtmlbgo dsomgfjgm km rsmz mzkozltu lt
dso wkoggo, ktb kpzgo k mkfszkoc gyxgolgtwg khdsz zd ply sxdt k
xgonktgtz hkmlm zeg xdflwc hgmz wkfwsfkzgb zd xodndzg zeg ekxxltgmm dp
zeg xgdxfg ktb pkwlflzkzg zeglo xoduogmm zdvkob zeg ndmz wdnxfgzg
gtrdcngtz dp wljlf flhgozc. Dt kt dwwkmldt md ltzgogmzltu ktb lnxdozktz
lt dso elmzdoc, ktb dp mswe ktyldsm wdtwgot zd zeg polgtbm dp poggbdn
zeodsuedsz zeg vdofb, lz lm dso lnxgoldsm bszc zd fkc kmlbg kff mgfplme
ktb fdwkf wdtmlbgokzldtm ktb hg uslbgb hc k fdpzc mxlolz dp bgjdzldt zd
zeg uogkz xoltwlxfgm dt velwe dso ltmzlzszldtm kog pdstbgb.

Zekz zelm Udjgotngtz nkc hg md kbnltlmzgogb km zd xogmgojg lzm
gpplwlgtwc lt xodndzltu ktb mgwsoltu zegmg ugtgokf dhrgwzm medsfb hg
zeg dtfc kln dp dso knhlzldt, ktb vg wkt tdz, zegogpdog, zdd wkogpsffc
gyknltg lzm mzoswzsog, lt dobgo zekz vg nkc tdz nlmzkag lzm xdvgom do
kmmsng zedmg velwe zeg xgdxfg ekjg ogmgojgb zd zegnmgfjgm do ekjg
xogpgoogb zd kmmlut zd dzego kugtzm. Vg medsfb hgko wdtmzktzfc lt nltb
zeg pkwz zekz zeg wdtmlbgokzldtm velwe ltbswgb zeg pokngom dp zeg
Wdtmzlzszldt zd vlzeedfb podn zeg Ugtgokf Udjgotngtz zeg xdvgo zd
ogusfkzg zeg uogkz nkmm dp zeg hsmltgmm ktb wdtwgotm dp zeg xgdxfg ekjg
hggt psffc rsmzlplgb hc gyxgolgtwg, ktb zekz lz wkt tdz tdv hg bdshzgb
zekz zeg ugtlsm dp kff dso ltmzlzszldtm xogmwolhgm mlnxflwlzc ktb
gwdtdnc km zeg wekokwzgolmzlwm dp zeg ogpdon velwe lm cgz zd hg
gppgwzgb lt zeg xogmgtz ktb pszsog gygwszldt dp zeg pstwzldtm hgmzdvgb
sxdt sm hc zeg Wdtmzlzszldt.

Flnlzgb zd k ugtgokf msxgoltzgtbltu xdvgo zd nkltzklt xgkwg kz edng ktb
khodkb, ktb zd xogmwolhg fkvm dt k pgv mshrgwzm dp ugtgokf ltzgogmz tdz
wkfwsfkzgb zd ogmzolwz esnkt flhgozc, hsz zd gtpdowg esnkt oluezm, zelm
Udjgotngtz vlff pltb lzm mzogtuze ktb lzm ufdoc lt zeg pklzepsf
blmwekoug dp zegmg xfklt ktb mlnxfg bszlgm. Ogflgjgb hc lzm xodzgwzltu
melgfb podn zeg pgko dp vko ktb zeg kxxogegtmldt dp dxxogmmldt, zeg
pogg gtzgoxolmg dp dso wlzlqgtm, klbgb hc zeg Mzkzg mdjgoglutzlgm, vlff
vdoa dsz lnxodjgngtzm ktb kngfldokzldtm velwe wkt tdz pklf zd
bgndtmzokzg zekz zeg uogkz zosze zekz zeg xgdxfg wkt udjgot zegnmgfjgm
lm tdz dtfc ogkflqgb lt dso gyknxfg, hsz zekz lz lm bdtg hc k nkweltgoc
lt udjgotngtz md mlnxfg ktb gwdtdnlwkf km mwkowgfc zd hg pgfz. Zekz zeg
Kfnluezc Osfgo dp zeg Stljgomg nkc md blogwz dso bgflhgokzldtm ktb
djgo-osfg dso kwzm km zd nkag sm ltmzosngtzkf lt mgwsoltu k ogmsfz md
bgko zd nktaltb lm nc ndmz gkotgmz ktb mltwgog xokcgo.