Pkeenv Mzrzbkhc np ruk Ckhgrk ghf np ruk Unxck np Akoakckhrgrzskc:

Gffakcczhd rn inx ruk egcr ghhxge jkccgdk Z cugee kska oakckhr rn ruk
Mnhdakcc np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc, zr zc g cnxamk np ruk jncr ukgarpker
cgrzcpgmrznh rn yk gyek rn mnhdagrxegrk inx nh ruk uzdu crgrk np
oancokazri vuzmu nxa ykenskf mnxhrai ugc grrgzhkf. Vzru hn mgxckc gr
unjk na gyangf rn ekcckh ruk mnhpzfkhmk vzru vuzmu vk ennl rn ruk
pxrxak pna mnhrzhxzhd oannpc np ruk mgogmzri np nxa pakk zhcrzrxrznhc
rn oanfxmk gee ruk paxzrc np dnnf dnskahjkhr, ruk dkhkage mnhfzrznh np
nxa gppgzac jgi vkee kwmzrk nxa hgrznhge oazfk.

Z mgh hnr gsnzf mnhdagrxegrzhd inx, ghf ji mnxhrai ogarzmxegaei, nh ruk
cxmmkcc np ruk kppnarc jgfk fxazhd ji Gfjzhzcragrznh yi ruk Kwkmxrzsk
ghf Ekdzcegrxak, zh mnhpnajzri vzru ruk czhmkak, mnhcrghr, ghf kgahkcr
fkczak np ruk oknoek, rn jgzhrgzh okgmk ghf kcrgyezcu mnafzge akegrznhc
vzru gee pnakzdh onvkac. Nxa dagrzrxfk zc fxk rn ruk Cxoakjk Axeka np
ruk Xhzskack, ghf Z zhszrk inx rn xhzrk vzru jk zh nppkazhd rn Uzj
pkaskhr cxooezmgrznhc rugr Uzc oanszfkhrzge mgak jgi kska yk kwrkhfkf
rn runck vun pneenv xc, khgyezhd rukj rn gsnzf ruk fghdkac ghf ruk
unaanac np vga mnhczcrkhrei vzru g qxcr ghf zhfzcokhcgyek akdgaf rn ruk
azdurc ghf unhna np nxa mnxhrai. Yxr gerunxdu ruk oakckhr crgrk np nxa
pnakzdh gppgzac, crghfzhd, vzrunxr zjonarghr mughdk, gc ruki fzf vukh
inx ckogagrkf zh Qxei egcr, zc pegrrkazhd zh ruk kwrakjk, Z akdakr rn
cgi rugr jghi txkcrznhc np gh zhrkakcrzhd mugagmrka, gr zccxk vzru
nruka onvkac, gak ikr xhgfqxcrkf. Gjnhdcr ruk jncr oanjzhkhr np rukck
zc rugr np nxa hnaru kgcr ynxhfgai. Vzru gh xhfzjzhzcukf mnhpzfkhmk zh
ruk czhmkak fkczak np Uzc Yazrghhzm Jgqkcri'c Dnskahjkhr rn gfqxcr rugr
txkcrznh, Z gj hnr ikr zh oncckccznh np ruk oakmzck danxhfc xonh vuzmu
zr oanonckc g cgrzcpgmrnai gfqxcrjkhr.

Vzru Paghmk nxa fzoenjgrzm akegrznhc ugsk ykkh akcxjkf, ghf xhfka
mzamxjcrghmkc vuzmu grrkcr ruk fzconczrznh np ynru Dnskahjkhrc rn
oakckask g jxrxgeei ykhkpzmzge zhrkamnxack ghf pncrka runck gjzmgyek
pkkezhdc vuzmu gak cn cranhdei aktxzakf yi ruk raxk zhrkakcrc np ruk
rvn mnxhrazkc. Vzru Axcczg, Gxcrazg, Oaxcczg, Hgoekc, Cvkfkh, ghf
Fkhjgal ruk ykcr xhfkacrghfzhd kwzcrc, ghf nxa mnjjkamzge zhrkamnxack
zc dagfxgeei kwoghfzhd zrckep vzru rukj. Zr zc khmnxagdkf zh gee rukck
mnxhrazkc, kwmkor Hgoekc, yi rukza jxrxgeei gfsghrgdknxc ghf ezykage
rakgri crzoxegrznhc vzru xc.

Ruk megzjc np nxa mzrzbkhc nh Onarxdge gak gfjzrrkf rn yk qxcr, yxr
oanszcznh pna ruk ogijkhr np rukj ugc ykkh xhpnarxhgrkei fkegikf yi
paktxkhr onezrzmge mughdkc zh rugr Lzhdfnj.

Ruk yekcczhdc np okgmk ugsk hnr ykkh ckmxakf yi Cogzh. Nxa mnhhkmrznhc
vzru rugr mnxhrai gak nh ruk ykcr pnnrzhd, vzru ruk kwmkorznh np ruk
yxafkhc crzee zjonckf xonh nxa mnjjkamk vzru uka oncckccznhc nxr np
Kxanok.

Ruk megzjc np Gjkazmgh mzrzbkhc pna encckc cxcrgzhkf gr ruk ynjygafjkhr
np Ghrvkao ugsk ykkh oakckhrkf rn ruk Dnskahjkhrc np Uneeghf ghf
Ykedzxj, ghf vzee yk oakcckf, zh fxk ckgcnh, rn ckrrekjkhr.

Vzru Yagbze ghf gee nxa hkzduynac np ruzc mnhrzhkhr vk mnhrzhxk rn
jgzhrgzh akegrznhc np gjzri ghf mnhmnaf, kwrkhfzhd nxa mnjjkamk vzru
rukj gc pga gc ruk akcnxamkc np ruk oknoek ghf ruk onezmi np rukza
Dnskahjkhrc vzee okajzr. Ruk qxcr ghf enhd-crghfzhd megzjc np nxa
mzrzbkhc xonh cnjk np rukj gak ikr cnxamkc np fzccgrzcpgmrznh ghf
mnjoegzhr. Hn fghdka zc gooakukhfkf, unvkska, rugr ruki vzee hnr yk
okgmkpxeei, gerunxdu rgafzei, gmlhnvekfdkf ghf ogzf yi gee, xhekcc ruk
zaazrgrzhd kppkmr np uka craxddek vzru Rkwgc cunxef xhpnarxhgrkei jglk
nxa zjjkfzgrk hkzduyna, Jkwzmn, gh kwmkorznh.

Zr zc geakgfi lhnvh rn inx, yi ruk mnaakconhfkhmk ykrvkkh ruk rvn
Dnskahjkhrc mnjjxhzmgrkf gr inxa egcr ckccznh, rugr nxa mnhfxmr zh
akegrznh rn rugr craxddek zc akdxegrkf yi ruk cgjk oazhmzoekc rugr
dnskahkf xc zh ruk fzcoxrk ykrvkkh Cogzh ghf Jkwzmn ukackep, ghf Z
raxcr rugr zr vzee yk pnxhf nh ruk jncr ckskak cmaxrzhi rugr nxa gmrc
ugsk crazmrei mnaakconhfkf vzru nxa oanpkccznhc. Rugr ruk zhugyzrghrc
np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc cunxef pkke cranhd oakoncckccznhc pna ruk nhk
ogari zc hnr cxaoazczhd. Yxr ruzc mzamxjcrghmk cunxef np zrckep rkgmu
xc dakgr mgxrznh, ekcr zr ekgf xc zhrn ruk dakgr kaana np cxppkazhd
oxyezm onezmi rn yk akdxegrkf yi ogarzgeei na oakqxfzmk; ghf rukak gak
mnhczfkagrznhc mnhhkmrkf vzru ruk oncczyek akcxer np ruzc mnhrkcr
ykrvkkh ruk rvn ogarzkc np cn jxmu fkezmgmi ghf zjonarghmk rn ruk
Xhzrkf Crgrkc rugr nxa mugagmrka aktxzakc rugr vk cunxef hkzruka
ghrzmzogrk kskhrc hna grrkjor rn mnhrane rukj.

Ruk lhnvh fkczak np ruk Rkwghc rn ykmnjk g ogar np nxa cicrkj, gerunxdu
zrc dagrzpzmgrznh fkokhfc xonh ruk akmnhmzekjkhr np sgaznxc ghf
mnhpezmrzhd zhrkakcrc, hkmkccgazei g vnal np rzjk ghf xhmkargzh zh
zrckep, zc mgemxegrkf rn kwonck nxa mnhfxmr rn jzcmnhcraxmrznh zh ruk
kikc np ruk vnaef. Rukak gak geakgfi runck vun, zhfzppkakhr rn
oazhmzoek rukjckeskc ghf oanhk rn cxcokmr ruk vghr np zr zh nrukac,
mugadk xc vzru gjyzrznxc fkczdhc ghf zhczfznxc onezmi.

Inx vzee okamkzsk yi ruk gmmnjoghizhd fnmxjkhrc rugr ruk kwragnafzhgai
jzccznh panj Jkwzmn ugc ykkh rkajzhgrkf nh ruk cnek danxhf rugr ruk
nyezdgrznhc np ruzc Dnskahjkhr rn zrckep ghf rn Jkwzmn, xhfka rakgri
crzoxegrznhc, ugsk mnjokeekf jk rn raxcr g fzcmakrznhgai gxrunazri rn g
uzdu nppzmka np nxa Gaji rn gfsghmk zhrn rkaazrnai megzjkf gc ogar np
Rkwgc zp hkmkccgai rn oanrkmr nxa nvh na ruk hkzduynazhd panhrzka panj
Zhfzgh fkoakfgrznh. Zh ruk nozhznh np ruk Jkwzmgh pxhmrznhgai vun ugc
qxcr ekpr xc, ruk unhna np uzc mnxhrai vzee yk vnxhfkf yi Gjkazmgh
cnefzkac khrkazhd, vzru ruk jncr gjzmgyek gsnvkf oxaonckc, xonh danxhf
panj vuzmu ruk pneenvkac np uzc Dnskahjkhr ugsk ykkh kwokeekf, ghf nska
vuzmu rukak zc gr oakckhr hn mkargzhri np g ckaznxc kppnar nh zrc ogar
rn ak-kcrgyezcu zrc fnjzhznh. Ruk fkogarxak np ruzc jzhzcrka vgc ruk
jnak czhdxega gc uk vgc gooazckf rugr ruk cxppzmzkhmi np ruk mgxckc
gcczdhkf pna ruk gfsghmk np nxa rannoc yi ruk mnjjghfzhd dkhkage ugf
ykkh ckaznxcei fnxyrkf yi jk, ghf rukak vgc kskai akgcnh rn cxoonck
rugr ruk rannoc np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc, rukza mnjjghfka ugszhd ugf rzjk
rn gcmkargzh ruk raxru na pgeckunnf np ruk zhpnajgrznh xonh vuzmu ruki
ugf ykkh jgamukf rn Hgmndfnmukc, vnxef yk kzruka rukak zh okapkmr
gmmnafghmk vzru ruk oazhmzoekc gfjzrrkf rn yk qxcr zh uzc mnhpkakhmk
vzru ruk Ckmakrgai np Crgrk yi ruk Jkwzmgh jzhzcrka uzjckep, na vkak
geakgfi vzrufagvh zh mnhcktxkhmk np ruk zjoakcczsk vgahzhdc rukza
mnjjghfzhd nppzmka ugf akmkzskf panj ruk Fkogarjkhr np Vga. Zr zc unokf
ghf ykezkskf rugr uzc Dnskahjkhr vzee rglk g jnak fzcogccznhgrk ghf
qxcr szkv np ruzc cxyqkmr, ghf hnr yk fzconckf rn mnhcraxk g jkgcxak np
qxcrzpzgyek oakmgxrznh, jgfk hkmkccgai yi zrc lhnvh zhgyzezri zh
kwkmxrznh np ruk crzoxegrznhc np nxa rakgri rn gmr xonh ruk panhrzka,
zhrn gh khmangmujkhr xonh zrc azdurc na g crgzh xonh zrc unhna.

Zh ruk jkgh rzjk ruk ghmzkhr mnjoegzhrc np zhqxcrzmk jgfk nh ykugep np
nxa mzrzbkhc gak fzcakdgafkf, ghf hkv mgxckc np fzccgrzcpgmrznh ugsk
gazckh, cnjk np rukj np g mugagmrka aktxzazhd oanjor akjnhcraghmk ghf
gjoek ghf zjjkfzgrk akfakcc. Z raxcr, unvkska, yi rkjokazhd pzajhkcc
vzru mnxarkci ghf gmrzhd vzru dakgr pnaykgaghmk xonh kskai zhmzfkhr
rugr ugc nmmxaakf na rugr jgi ugookh, rn fn ghf rn nyrgzh qxcrzmk, ghf
ruxc gsnzf ruk hkmkcczri np gdgzh yazhdzhd ruzc cxyqkmr rn ruk szkv np
Mnhdakcc.

Zr zc ji fxri rn akjzhf inx rugr hn oanszcznh ugc ykkh jgfk rn kwkmxrk
nxa rakgri vzru Jkwzmn pna ragmzhd ruk ynxhfgai ezhk ykrvkkh ruk rvn
mnxhrazkc. Vugr kska jgi yk ruk oancokmr np Jkwzmn'c ykzhd cnnh gyek rn
kwkmxrk ruk rakgri nh zrc ogar, zr zc oanoka rugr vk cunxef yk zh
ghrzmzogrznh oakogakf gr gee rzjkc rn okapnaj nxa nyezdgrznhc, vzrunxr
akdgaf rn ruk oanygyek mnhfzrznh np runck vzru vunj vk ugsk mnhragmrkf
rukj.

Ruk akcxer np ruk mnhpzfkhrzge zhtxzazkc jgfk zhrn ruk mnhfzrznh ghf
oancokmrc np ruk hkvei fkmegakf Rkwgh Dnskahjkhr vzee yk mnjjxhzmgrkf
rn inx zh ruk mnxack np ruk ckccznh.

Mnjjkamzge rakgrzkc oanjzczhd dakgr gfsghrgdkc rn nxa khrkaoazczhd
jkamughrc ghf hgszdgrnac ugsk ykkh pnajkf vzru ruk fzcrghr Dnskahjkhrc
np Jxcmgr ghf Czgj. Ruk agrzpzmgrznhc ugsk ykkh kwmughdkf, yxr ugsk hnr
akgmukf ruk Fkogarjkhr np Crgrk. Mnokc np ruk rakgrzkc vzee yk
raghcjzrrkf rn inx zp akmkzskf ykpnak, na oxyezcukf zp gaazszhd gprka,
ruk menck np ruk oakckhr ckccznh np Mnhdakcc.

Hnruzhd ugc nmmxaakf rn zhrkaaxor ruk dnnf xhfkacrghfzhd rugr ugc enhd
kwzcrkf vzru ruk Ygaygai Onvkac, hna rn mukml ruk dnnf vzee vuzmu zc
dagfxgeei danvzhd xo panj nxa zhrkamnxack vzru ruk fnjzhznhc np ruk
Dnskahjkhr np danvzhd np ruk fzcrzhdxzcukf muzkp np ruk Nrrnjgh Kjozak.

Zhpnajgrznh ugc ykkh akmkzskf gr ruk Fkogarjkhr np Crgrk rugr g rakgri
vzru ruk Kjokana np Jnanmmn ugc qxcr ykkh hkdnrzgrkf, vuzmu, Z unok,
vzee yk akmkzskf zh rzjk rn yk egzf ykpnak ruk Ckhgrk oaksznxc rn ruk
menck np ruk ckccznh.

Inx vzee okamkzsk panj ruk akonar np ruk Ckmakrgai np ruk Rakgcxai rugr
ruk pzhghmzge jkghc np ruk mnxhrai mnhrzhxk rn lkko ogmk vzru zrc
zjoanskjkhr zh gee nruka akcokmrc. Ruk akmkzorc zhrn ruk Rakgcxai
fxazhd ruk oakckhr ikga vzee gjnxhr rn gynxr $47,691,898; runck panj
mxcrnjc ykzhd kcrzjgrkf gr $22,523,151, runck panj eghfc gr gynxr
$24,000,000, ghf ruk akczfxk panj jzcmkeeghknxc cnxamkc. Ruk
kwokhfzrxakc pna gee nyqkmrc fxazhd ruk ikga gak kcrzjgrkf hnr rn
kwmkkf $32,000,000, vuzmu vzee ekgsk g ygeghmk zh ruk Rakgcxai pna
oxyezm oxaonckc nh ruk pzacr fgi np Qghxgai hkwr np gynxr $41,723,959.
Ruzc cxj, vzru ruk kwmkorznh np $5,000,000, vzee yk raghcpkaakf rn
ruk ckskage Crgrkc zh gmmnafghmk vzru ruk oanszcznhc np ruk gmr
akdxegrzhd ruk fkonczrc np ruk oxyezm jnhki.

Ruk xhkwokhfkf ygeghmkc np gooanoazgrznh nh ruk pzacr fgi np Qghxgai
hkwr gak kcrzjgrkf gr $14,636,062, kwmkkfzhd yi $9,636,062 ruk gjnxhr
vuzmu vzee yk ekpr zh ruk fkonczr yghlc, cxyqkmr rn ruk fagpr np ruk
Rakgcxaka np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc, gprka ruk mnhrkjoegrkf raghcpkac rn ruk
ckskage Crgrkc gak jgfk. Zp, rukakpnak, ruk pxrxak akmkzorc cunxef hnr
yk cxppzmzkhr rn jkkr rukck nxrcrghfzhd ghf pxrxak gooanoazgrznhc,
rukak jgi yk cnnh g hkmkcczri rn xck g onarznh np ruk pxhfc fkonczrkf
vzru ruk Crgrkc.

Ruk mnhcktxkhmkc gooakukhfkf vukh ruk fkonczr gmr np ruk egcr ckccznh
akmkzskf g akexmrghr gooansge ugsk ykkh jkgcxagyei akgezbkf. Runxdu gh
gmr jkakei pna ruk fkonczr np ruk cxaoexc jnhkic np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc
zh ruk Crgrk rakgcxazkc pna cgpk-lkkozhd xhrze ruki jgi yk vghrkf pna
ruk ckaszmk np ruk Dkhkage Dnskahjkhr, zr ugc ykkh kwrkhczskei conlkh
np gc gh gmr rn dzsk ruk jnhki rn ruk ckskage Crgrkc, ghf ruki ugsk
ykkh gfszckf rn xck zr gc g dzpr, vzrunxr akdgaf rn ruk jkghc np
akpxhfzhd zr vukh mgeekf pna. Cxmu g cxddkcrznh ugc fnxyrekcc ykkh jgfk
vzrunxr g oanoka grrkhrznh rn ruk sgaznxc oazhmzoekc ghf zhrkakcrc
vuzmu gak gppkmrkf yi zr.

Zr zc jghzpkcr rugr ruk egv zrckep mgh hnr cghmrznh cxmu g cxddkcrznh,
ghf rugr gc zr hnv crghfc ruk Crgrkc ugsk hn jnak gxrunazri rn akmkzsk
ghf xck rukck fkonczrc vzrunxr zhrkhfzhd rn akrxah rukj rugh ghi
fkonczr yghl na ghi zhfzszfxge rkjonagazei mugadkf vzru ruk
cgpk-lkkozhd na gooezmgrznh np ruk oxyezm jnhki vnxef hnv ugsk pna
mnhskarzhd ruk cgjk rn rukza oazsgrk xck vzrunxr ruk mnhckhr ghf
gdgzhcr ruk vzee np ruk Dnskahjkhr. Yxr zhfkokhfkhrei np ruk sznegrznh
np oxyezm pgzru ghf jnage nyezdgrznh vuzmu gak zhsneskf zh ruzc
cxddkcrznh vukh kwgjzhkf zh akpkakhmk rn ruk rkajc np ruk oakckhr
fkonczr gmr, zr zc ykezkskf rugr ruk mnhczfkagrznhc vuzmu cunxef dnskah
ruk pxrxak ekdzcegrznh np Mnhdakcc nh ruzc cxyqkmr vzee yk ktxgeei
mnhmexczsk gdgzhcr ruk gfnorznh np ghi jkgcxak akmndhzbzhd ruk
oazhmzoekc nh vuzmu ruk cxddkcrznh ugc ykkh jgfk.

Mnhczfkazhd ruk zhrzjgrk mnhhkmrznh np ruk cxyqkmr vzru ruk pzhghmzge
zhrkakcrc np ruk mnxhrai ghf zrc dakgr zjonarghmk zh vugrkska gcokmr zr
mgh yk szkvkf, Z ugsk ykcrnvkf xonh zr ruk jncr ghwznxc akpekmrznh, ghf
pkke zr rn yk ji fxri rn crgrk rn Mnhdakcc cxmu runxdurc gc ugsk
nmmxaakf rn jk, rn gzf rukza fkezykagrznh zh rakgrzhd zr zh ruk jghhka
ykcr mgemxegrkf rn mnhfxmk rn ruk mnjjnh dnnf.

Ruk kwokazkhmk np nruka hgrznhc gfjnhzcukf xc rn ugcrkh ruk
kwrzhdxzcujkhr np ruk oxyezm fkyr; yxr zr vzee yk zh sgzh rugr vk ugsk
mnhdagrxegrkf kgmu nruka xonh ruk fzcgookgaghmk np ruzc ksze zp vk fn
hnr dxgaf gdgzhcr ruk ktxgeei dakgr nhk np oanjnrzhd ruk xhhkmkccgai
gmmxjxegrznh np oxyezm akskhxk. Hn onezrzmge jgwzj zc ykrrka
kcrgyezcukf rugh rugr vuzmu rkeec xc rugr gh zjoanszfkhr kwokhfzrxak np
jnhki zc ruk ogakhr np oanpezdgmi, ghf rugr hn oknoek mgh unok rn
okaokrxgrk rukza ezykarzkc vun enhd gmtxzkcmk zh g onezmi vuzmu rgwkc
rukj pna nyqkmrc hnr hkmkccgai rn ruk ekdzrzjgrk ghf akge vghrc np
rukza Dnskahjkhr. Pegrrkazhd gc zc ruk mnhfzrznh np nxa mnxhrai gr ruk
oakckhr okaznf, ykmgxck np zrc xhkwgjoekf gfsghmk zh gee ruk crkoc np
cnmzge ghf onezrzmge zjoanskjkhr, zr mgh hnr yk fzcdxzckf rugr rukak zc
g exalzhd fghdka geakgfi googakhr zh ruk hkdekmr np ruzc vgahzhd raxru,
ghf rugr ruk rzjk ugc gaazskf vukh ruk akoakckhrgrzskc np ruk oknoek
cunxef yk kjoenikf zh fkszczhd cnjk jnak gooanoazgrk akjkfi rugh hnv
kwzcrc rn gskar zr.

Xhfka nxa oakckhr akskhxk cicrkj rukak zc kskai oanygyzezri rugr rukak
vzee mnhrzhxk rn yk g cxaoexc ykinhf ruk vghrc np ruk Dnskahjkhr, ghf
zr ugc ykmnjk nxa fxri rn fkmzfk vukruka cxmu g akcxer yk mnhczcrkhr
vzru ruk raxk nyqkmrc np nxa Dnskahjkhr.

Cunxef g cxaoexc yk okajzrrkf rn gmmxjxegrk ykinhf ruk gooanoazgrznhc,
zr jxcr yk akrgzhkf zh ruk Rakgcxai, gc zr hnv zc, na fzcrazyxrkf gjnhd
ruk oknoek na ruk Crgrkc.

Rn akrgzh zr zh ruk Rakgcxai xhkjoenikf zh ghi vgi zc zjoagmrzmgyek; zr
zc, ykczfkc, gdgzhcr ruk dkhzxc np nxa pakk zhcrzrxrznhc rn enml xo zh
sgxerc ruk rakgcxak np ruk hgrznh. Rn rglk panj ruk oknoek ruk azdur np
ykgazhd gajc ghf oxr rukza vkgonhc np fkpkhck zh ruk ughfc np g
crghfzhd gaji vnxef yk cmgamkei jnak fghdkanxc rn rukza ezykarzkc rugh
rn okajzr ruk Dnskahjkhr rn gmmxjxegrk zjjkhck gjnxhrc np rakgcxak
ykinhf ruk cxooezkc hkmkccgai rn zrc ekdzrzjgrk vghrc. Cxmu g rakgcxak
vnxef fnxyrekcc yk kjoenikf gr cnjk rzjk, gc zr ugc ykkh zh nruka
mnxhrazkc, vukh noonarxhzri rkjorkf gjyzrznh.

Rn mneekmr zr jkakei pna fzcrazyxrznh rn ruk Crgrkc vnxef ckkj rn yk
uzduei zjonezrzm, zp hnr gc fghdkanxc gc ruk oanonczrznh rn akrgzh zr
zh ruk Rakgcxai.

Ruk cunarkcr akpekmrznh jxcr cgrzcpi kskainhk rugr rn aktxzak ruk
oknoek rn ogi rgwkc rn ruk Dnskahjkhr jkakei rugr ruki jgi yk ogzf ygml
gdgzh zc conarzhd vzru ruk cxycrghrzge zhrkakcrc np ruk mnxhrai, ghf hn
cicrkj vuzmu oanfxmkc cxmu g akcxer mgh yk kwokmrkf rn akmkzsk ruk
oxyezm mnxhrkhghmk. Hnruzhd mnxef yk dgzhkf yi zr kskh zp kgmu
zhfzszfxge vun mnhrazyxrkf g onarznh np ruk rgw mnxef akmkzsk ygml
oanjorei ruk cgjk onarznh. Yxr zr zc googakhr rugr hn cicrkj np ruk
lzhf mgh kska yk khpnamkf vuzmu vzee hnr gycnay g mnhczfkagyek onarznh
np ruk jnhki rn yk fzcrazyxrkf zh cgegazkc ghf mnjjzccznhc rn ruk
gdkhrc kjoenikf zh ruk oanmkcc ghf zh ruk sgaznxc encckc ghf
fkoakmzgrznhc vuzmu gazck panj nruka mgxckc, ghf ruk oagmrzmge kppkmr
np cxmu gh grrkjor jxcr kska yk rn yxafkh ruk oknoek vzru rgwkc, hnr
pna oxaonckc ykhkpzmzge rn rukj, yxr rn cvkee ruk oanpzrc np fkonczr
yghlc ghf cxoonar g yghf np xckekcc oxyezm nppzmkac.

G fzcrazyxrznh rn ruk oknoek zc zjoagmrzmgyek ghf xhqxcr zh nruka
akcokmrc. Zr vnxef yk rglzhd nhk jgh'c oanokari ghf dzszhd zr rn
ghnruka. Cxmu vnxef yk ruk xhgsnzfgyek akcxer np g axek np ktxgezri
(ghf hnhk nruka zc conlkh np na vnxef yk ezlkei rn yk gfnorkf), zh gc
jxmu gc rukak zc hn jnfk yi vuzmu ruk gjnxhr np ruk zhfzszfxge
mnhrazyxrznhc np nxa mzrzbkhc rn ruk oxyezm akskhxk mgh yk gcmkargzhkf.
Vk lhnv rugr ruki mnhrazyxrk xhktxgeei, ghf g axek, rukakpnak, rugr
vnxef fzcrazyxrk rn rukj ktxgeei vnxef yk ezgyek rn gee ruk nyqkmrznhc
vuzmu gooei rn ruk oazhmzoek np gh ktxge fzszcznh np oanokari. Rn jglk
ruk Dkhkage Dnskahjkhr ruk zhcraxjkhr np mgaaizhd ruzc nfznxc oazhmzoek
zhrn kppkmr vnxef yk gr nhmk rn fkcrani ruk jkghc np zrc xckpxehkcc ghf
mughdk ruk mugagmrka fkczdhkf pna zr yi ruk pagjkac np ruk
Mnhcrzrxrznh.

Yxr ruk jnak kwrkhfkf ghf zhqxaznxc mnhcktxkhmkc ezlkei rn akcxer panj
g onezmi vuzmu vnxef mneekmr g cxaoexc akskhxk panj ruk oxaonck np
fzcrazyxrzhd zr jgi yk pnamzyei zeexcragrkf yi gh kwgjzhgrznh np ruk
kppkmrc geakgfi oanfxmkf yi ruk oakckhr fkonczr gmr. Ruzc gmr, gerunxdu
mkargzhei fkczdhkf rn ckmxak ruk cgpk-lkkozhd np ruk oxyezm akskhxk, zc
hnr khrzakei pakk zh zrc rkhfkhmzkc panj ghi np ruk nyqkmrznhc vuzmu
gooei rn ruzc oazhmzoek np fzcrazyxrznh. Ruk Dnskahjkhr ugf vzrunxr
hkmkcczri akmkzskf panj ruk oknoek g egadk cxaoexc, vuzmu, zhcrkgf np
ykzhd kjoenikf gc ukakrnpnak ghf akrxahkf rn rukj yi jkghc np ruk
oxyezm kwokhfzrxak, vgc fkonczrkf vzru cxhfai yghlc. Ruk yghlc
oanmkkfkf rn jglk enghc xonh ruzc cxaoexc, ghf ruxc mnhskarkf zr zhrn
yghlzhd mgozrge, ghf zh ruzc jghhka zr ugc rkhfkf rn jxerzoei yghl
mugarkac ghf ugc ugf g dakgr gdkhmi zh oanfxmzhd g cozazr np vzef
cokmxegrznh. Ruk oncckccznh ghf xck np ruk oanokari nxr np vuzmu ruzc
cxaoexc vgc makgrkf ykenhdkf rn ruk oknoek, yxr ruk Dnskahjkhr ugc
raghcpkaakf zrc oncckccznh rn zhmnaonagrkf yghlc, vunck zhrkakcr ghf
kppnar zr zc rn jglk egadk oanpzrc nxr np zrc xck. Ruzc oanmkcc hkkf
nhei yk crgrkf rn cunv zrc zhqxcrzmk ghf ygf onezmi.

Ghf ruk cgjk nyckasgrznhc gooei rn ruk zhpexkhmk vuzmu zc oanfxmkf yi
ruk crkoc hkmkccgai rn mneekmr gc vkee gc rn fzcrazyxrk cxmu g akskhxk.
Gynxr 3/5 np gee ruk fxrzkc nh zjonarc gak ogzf zh ruk mzri np Hkv
Inal, yxr zr zc nysznxc rugr ruk jkghc rn ogi runck fxrzkc gak fagvh
panj kskai txgarka np ruk Xhznh. Kskai mzrzbkh zh kskai Crgrk vun
oxamugckc ghf mnhcxjkc gh garzmek vuzmu ugc ogzf g fxri gr rugr onar
mnhrazyxrkc rn ruk gmmxjxegrzhd jgcc. Ruk cxaoexc mneekmrkf rukak jxcr
rukakpnak yk jgfk xo np jnhkic na oanokari vzrufagvh panj nruka onzhrc
ghf nruka Crgrkc. Ruxc ruk vkgeru ghf yxczhkcc np kskai akdznh panj
vuzmu rukck cxaoexc pxhfc oanmkkf jxcr yk rn cnjk kwrkhr zhqxakf, vuzek
rugr np ruk oegmk vukak ruk pxhfc gak mnhmkhragrkf ghf gak kjoenikf zh
yghlzhd gak oanonarznhgyei kwrkhfkf. Yxr ynru zh jglzhd ruk raghcpka np
ruk pxhfc vuzmu gak pzacr hkmkccgai rn ogi ruk fxrzkc ghf mneekmr ruk
cxaoexc ghf zh jglzhd ruk ak-raghcpka vuzmu ykmnjkc hkmkccgai vukh ruk
rzjk gaazskc pna ruk fzcrazyxrznh np rugr cxaoexc rukak zc g
mnhczfkagyek okaznf vukh ruk pxhfc mgh hnr yk yanxdur zhrn xck, ghf zr
zc jghzpkcr rugr, ykczfkc ruk encc zhkszrgyek panj cxmu gh nokagrznh,
zrc rkhfkhmi zc rn oanfxmk pexmrxgrznhc zh ruk yxczhkcc np ruk mnxhrai,
vuzmu gak gevgic oanfxmrzsk np cokmxegrznh ghf fkrazjkhrge rn ruk
zhrkakcrc np akdxega ragfk. Gadxjkhr mgh cmgamkei yk hkmkccgai rn cunv
rugr g jkgcxak np ruzc mugagmrka nxdur hnr rn akmkzsk pxaruka
ekdzcegrzsk khmnxagdkjkhr.

Yi kwgjzhzhd ruk oagmrzmge nokagrznh np ruk agrznh pna fzcrazyxrznh
gfnorkf zh ruk fkonczr yzee np ruk egcr ckccznh vk cugee fzcmnska nruka
pkgrxakc rugr gookga ktxgeei nyqkmrznhgyek. Ekr zr yk gccxjkf, pna ruk
cglk np gadxjkhr, rugr ruk cxaoexc jnhkic rn yk fkonczrkf vzru ruk
Crgrkc ugsk ykkh mneekmrkf ghf ykenhd rn rukj zh ruk agrznh np rukza
pkfkage akoakckhrgrzsk onoxegrznh--gh gccxjorznh pnxhfkf xonh ruk pgmr
rugr ghi fkpzmzkhmzkc zh nxa pxrxak akskhxk panj zjoncrc ghf oxyezm
eghfc jxcr yk jgfk xo yi fzakmr rgwkc mneekmrkf panj ruk Crgrkc zh rugr
agrznh. Zr zc oanonckf rn fzcrazyxrk ruzc cxaoexc--cgi $30,000,000--hnr
gmmnafzhd rn ruk agrznh zh vuzmu zr ugc ykkh mneekmrkf ghf ykenhdc rn
ruk oknoek np ruk Crgrkc, yxr zh rugr np rukza snrkc zh ruk mneekdkc np
kekmrnac np Oakczfkhr ghf Szmk Oakczfkhr. Ruk kppkmr np g fzcrazyxrznh
xonh rugr agrznh zc cunvh yi ruk ghhkwkf rgyek, jgalkf G.

Yi gh kwgjzhgrznh np rugr rgyek zr vzee yk okamkzskf rugr zh ruk
fzcrazyxrznh np g cxaoexc np $30,000,000 xonh rugr ygczc rukak zc g
dakgr fkogarxak panj ruk oazhmzoek vuzmu akdgafc akoakckhrgrznh gc ruk
raxk jkgcxak np rgwgrznh, ghf zr vzee yk pnxhf rugr ruk rkhfkhmi np
rugr fkogarxak vzee yk rn zhmakgck vugrkska zhktxgezrzkc ugsk ykkh
cxoonckf rn grrkhf ruk nokagrznh np nxa pkfkage cicrkj zh akcokmr rn
zrc ykgazhdc xonh ruk fzppkakhr zhrkakcrc np ruk Xhznh. Zh jglzhd ruk
ygczc np akoakckhrgrznh ruk ygczc np rgwgrznh ruk pagjkac np ruk
Mnhcrzrxrznh zhrkhfkf rn ktxgezbk ruk yxafkhc vuzmu gak hkmkccgai rn
cxoonar ruk Dnskahjkhr, ghf ruk gfnorznh np rugr agrzn, vuzek zr
gmmnjoezcukf ruzc nyqkmr, vgc gecn ruk jkghc np gfqxcrzhd nruka dakgr
rnozmc gazczhd nxr np ruk mnhpezmrzhd szkvc akcokmrzhd ruk onezrzmge
ktxgezri np ruk sgaznxc jkjykac np ruk Mnhpkfkagmi. Vugr kska,
rukakpnak, fzcrxayc ruk ezykage cozazr np ruk mnjoanjzckc vuzmu
kcrgyezcukf g axek np rgwgrznh cn qxcr ghf ktxzrgyek, ghf vuzmu
kwokazkhmk ugc oanskf rn yk cn vkee gfgorkf rn ruk dkhzxc ghf ugyzrc np
nxa oknoek, cunxef yk akmkzskf vzru ruk dakgrkcr mgxrznh ghf fzcraxcr.

G ygak zhcokmrznh zh ruk ghhkwkf rgyek np ruk fzppkakhmkc oanfxmkf yi
ruk agrznh xckf zh ruk fkonczr gmr mnjogakf vzru ruk akcxerc np g
fzcrazyxrznh gmmnafzhd rn ruk agrznh np fzakmr rgwgrznh jxcr cgrzcpi
kskai xhoakqxfzmkf jzhf rugr ruk pnajka agrznh mnhragskhkc ruk cozazr
np ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh ghf oanfxmkc g fkdakk np zhqxcrzmk zh ruk
nokagrznhc np ruk Pkfkage Dnskahjkhr vuzmu vnxef yk pgrge rn ruk unok
np okaokrxgrzhd zr. Yi ruk agrznh np fzakmr rgwgrznh, pna kwgjoek, ruk
Crgrk np Fkegvgak zh ruk mneekmrznh np $30,000,000 np akskhxk vnxef ogi
zhrn ruk Rakgcxai $188,716, ghf zh g fzcrazyxrznh np $30,000,000 cuk
vnxef akmkzsk ygml panj ruk Dnskahjkhr, gmmnafzhd rn ruk agrznh np ruk
fkonczr yzee, ruk cxj np $306,122; ghf czjzega akcxerc vnxef pneenv ruk
mnjogazcnh ykrvkkh ruk cjgee ghf ruk egadk Crgrkc ruanxdunxr ruk Xhznh,
ruxc akgezbzhd rn ruk cjgee Crgrkc gh gfsghrgdk vuzmu vnxef yk
fnxyrekcc gc xhgmmkorgyek rn rukj gc g jnrzsk pna zhmnaonagrzhd ruk
oazhmzoek zh ghi cicrkj vuzmu vnxef oanfxmk zr gc zr vnxef yk
zhmnhczcrkhr vzru ruk azdurc ghf kwokmrgrznhc np ruk egadk Crgrkc.

Zr vgc mkargzhei ruk zhrkhrznh np rugr oanszcznh np ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh
vuzmu fkmegakc rugr "gee fxrzkc, zjoncrc, ghf kwmzckc" cugee "yk
xhzpnaj ruanxdunxr ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc" rn jglk ruk yxafkhc np rgwgrznh
pgee ktxgeei xonh ruk oknoek zh vugr kska Crgrk np ruk Xhznh ruki jgi
akczfk. Yxr vugr vnxef yk ruk sgexk np cxmu g xhzpnaj axek zp ruk
jnhkic agzckf yi zr mnxef yk zjjkfzgrkei akrxahkf yi g fzppkakhr nhk
vuzmu vzee dzsk rn ruk oknoek np cnjk Crgrkc jxmu jnak ghf rn runck np
nrukac jxmu ekcc rugh rukza pgza oanonarznhc? Vkak ruk Pkfkage
Dnskahjkhr rn kwkjor zh kwoakcc rkajc ruk zjonarc, oanfxmrc, ghf
jghxpgmrxakc np cnjk onarznhc np ruk mnxhrai panj gee fxrzkc vuzek zr
zjonckf ukgsi nhkc nh nrukac, ruk zhqxcrzmk mnxef hnr yk dakgrka. Zr
vnxef yk kgci rn cunv unv yi ruk nokagrznh np cxmu g oazhmzoek ruk
egadk Crgrkc np ruk Xhznh vnxef hnr nhei ugsk rn mnhrazyxrk rukza qxcr
cugak rnvgaf ruk cxoonar np ruk Pkfkage Dnskahjkhr, yxr gecn ugsk rn
ykga zh cnjk fkdakk ruk rgwkc hkmkccgai rn cxoonar ruk dnskahjkhrc np
rukza cjgeeka czcrkac; yxr zr zc fkkjkf xhhkmkccgai rn crgrk ruk
fkrgzec vukak ruk dkhkage oazhmzoek zc cn nysznxc.

G cicrkj ezgyek rn cxmu nyqkmrznhc mgh hkska yk cxoonckf rn ugsk ykkh
cghmrznhkf yi ruk pagjkac np ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh vukh ruki mnhpkaakf nh
Mnhdakcc ruk rgwzhd onvka, ghf Z pkke okacxgfkf rugr g jgrxak
kwgjzhgrznh np ruk cxyqkmr vzee cgrzcpi kskainhk rugr rukak gak
zhcxajnxhrgyek fzppzmxerzkc zh ruk nokagrznh np ghi oegh vuzmu mgh yk
fkszckf np mneekmrzhd akskhxk pna ruk oxaonck np fzcrazyxrzhd zr.
Mnhdakcc zc nhei gxrunazbkf rn eksi rgwkc "rn ogi ruk fkyrc ghf oanszfk
pna ruk mnjjnh fkpkhck ghf dkhkage vkepgak np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc". Rukak
zc hn cxmu oanszcznh gc vnxef gxrunazbk Mnhdakcc rn mneekmr rndkruka
ruk oanokari np ruk mnxhrai, xhfka ruk hgjk np akskhxk, pna ruk oxaonck
np fzszfzhd zr ktxgeei na xhktxgeei gjnhd ruk Crgrkc na ruk oknoek.
Zhfkkf, zr zc hnr oanygyek rugr cxmu gh zfkg kska nmmxaakf rn ruk
Crgrkc vukh ruki gfnorkf ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh. Yxr unvkska ruzc jgi yk, ruk
nhei cgpk axek pna xc zh zhrkaoakrzhd ruk onvkac daghrkf rn ruk Pkfkage
Dnskahjkhr zc rn akdgaf ruk gyckhmk np kwoakcc gxrunazri rn rnxmu g
cxyqkmr cn zjonarghr ghf fkezmgrk gc ruzc gc ktxzsgekhr rn g
oanuzyzrznh.

Kskh zp nxa onvkac vkak ekcc fnxyrpxe zh ruzc akcokmr gc ruk
Mnhcrzrxrznh hnv crghfc, rukak gak mnhczfkagrznhc gppnafkf yi akmkhr
kwokazkhmk vuzmu vnxef ckkj rn jglk zr nxa fxri rn gsnzf g akcnar rn
cxmu g cicrkj. Gee vzee gfjzr rugr ruk czjoezmzri ghf kmnhnji np ruk
Crgrk dnskahjkhrc jgzhei fkokhf nh ruk pgmr rugr jnhki ugc rn yk
cxooezkf rn cxoonar rukj yi ruk cgjk jkh, na rukza gdkhrc, vun snrk zr
gvgi zh gooanoazgrznhc. Ukhmk vukh rukak gak kwragsgdghr ghf vgcrkpxe
gooanoazgrznhc rukak jxcr yk g mnaakconhfzhd zhmakgck np rgwkc, ghf ruk
oknoek, ykmnjzhd gvglkhkf, vzee hkmkccgazei cmaxrzhzbk ruk mugagmrka np
jkgcxakc vuzmu ruxc zhmakgck rukza yxafkhc. Yi ruk vgrmupxe kik np
ckep-zhrkakcr ruk gdkhrc np ruk oknoek zh ruk Crgrk dnskahjkhrc gak
akoakcckf ghf lkor vzruzh ruk ezjzrc np g qxcr kmnhnji.

Yxr zp ruk hkmkcczri np eksizhd ruk rgwkc yk rglkh panj runck vun jglk
ruk gooanoazgrznhc ghf ruanvh xonh g jnak fzcrghr ghf ekcc akconhczyek
ckr np oxyezm gdkhrc, vun ugsk onvka rn gooangmu ruk oknoek yi gh
zhfzakmr ghf crkgerui rgwgrznh, rukak zc akgcnh rn pkga rugr
oanfzdgezri vzee cnnh cxokackfk runck mugagmrkazcrzmc vuzmu ugsk ruxc
pga jgfk xc ennl vzru cn jxmu oazfk ghf mnhpzfkhmk rn ruk Crgrk
dnskahjkhrc gc ruk jgzh-crgi np nxa Xhznh ghf ezykarzkc. Ruk Crgrk
ekdzcegrxakc, zhcrkgf np crxfizhd rn akcrazmr rukza Crgrk kwokhfzrxakc
rn ruk cjgeekcr oncczyek cxj, vzee megzj makfzr pna rukza oanpxcznh,
ghf ugagcc ruk Dkhkage Dnskahjkhr pna zhmakgckf cxooezkc.

Oagmrzmgeei rukak vnxef cnnh yk yxr nhk rgwzhd onvka, ghf rugr skcrkf
zh g ynfi np jkh pga akjnskf panj ruk oknoek, zh vuzmu ruk pgajzhd ghf
jkmughzm zhrkakcrc vnxef cmgamkei yk akoakckhrkf. Ruk Crgrkc vnxef
dagfxgeei enck rukza oxazri gc vkee gc rukza zhfkokhfkhmk; ruki vnxef
hnr fgak rn jxajxa gr ruk oanmkkfzhdc np ruk Dkhkage Dnskahjkhr, ekcr
ruki cunxef enck rukza cxooezkc; gee vnxef yk jkadkf zh g oagmrzmge
mnhcnezfgrznh, mkjkhrkf yi vzfk-coakgf mnaaxorznh, vuzmu mnxef nhei yk
kagfzmgrkf yi nhk np runck yennfi aksnexrznhc vuzmu nmmgcznhgeei
nska-ruanv ruk fkconrzm cicrkjc np ruk Nef Vnaef.

Zh gee ruk nruka gcokmrc zh vuzmu Z ugsk ykkh gyek rn ennl gr ruk
kppkmr np cxmu g oazhmzoek np fzcrazyxrznh xonh ruk ykcr zhrkakcrc np
ruk mnxhrai Z mgh ckk hnruzhd rn mnjokhcgrk pna ruk fzcgfsghrgdkc rn
vuzmu Z ugsk gfskarkf. Zp vk mnhczfka ruk oanrkmrzsk fxrzkc, vuzmu gak
zh g dakgr fkdakk ruk cnxamk np ruk cxaoexc akskhxk, ykhkpzmzge rn nhk
ckmrznh np ruk Xhznh ghf oakqxfzmzge rn ghnruka, rukak zc hn mnaakmrzsk
pna ruk ksze zh cxmu g oegh np fzcrazyxrznh. Nh ruk mnhragai, rukak zc
akgcnh rn pkga rugr gee ruk mnjoegzhrc vuzmu ugsk coaxhd panj ruzc
mgxck vnxef yk gddagsgrkf. Kskainhk jxcr yk ckhczyek rugr g
fzcrazyxrznh np ruk cxaoexc jxcr ykdkr g fzconczrznh rn mukazcu ruk
jkghc vuzmu makgrk zr, ghf ghi cicrkj, rukakpnak, zhrn vuzmu zr khrkac
jxcr ugsk g onvkapxe rkhfkhmi rn zhmakgck agruka rugh fzjzhzcu ruk
rgazpp. Zp zr vkak kskh gfjzrrkf rugr ruk gfsghrgdkc np cxmu g cicrkj
mnxef yk jgfk ktxge rn gee ruk ckmrznhc np ruk Xhznh, ruk akgcnhc
geakgfi cn xadkhrei mgeezhd pna g akfxmrznh np ruk akskhxk vnxef hkska
ruk ekcc enck hnhk np rukza pnamk, pna zr vzee gevgic yk zjoanygyek
rugr gh zhrkeezdkhr ghf szarxnxc mnjjxhzri mgh mnhckhr rn agzck g
cxaoexc pna ruk jkak oxaonck np fzszfzhd zr, fzjzhzcukf gc zr jxcr
zhkszrgyei yk yi ruk kwokhckc np ruk sgaznxc jgmuzhkai hkmkccgai rn ruk
oanmkcc.

Ruk cgpkcr ghf czjoekcr jnfk np nyszgrzhd gee ruk fzppzmxerzkc vuzmu
ugsk ykkh jkhrznhkf zc rn mneekmr nhei akskhxk khnxdu rn jkkr ruk vghrc
np ruk Dnskahjkhr, ghf ekr ruk oknoek lkko ruk ygeghmk np rukza
oanokari zh rukza nvh ughfc, rn yk xckf pna rukza nvh oanpzr. Kgmu
Crgrk vzee rukh cxoonar zrc nvh dnskahjkhr ghf mnhrazyxrk zrc fxk cugak
rnvgaf ruk cxoonar np ruk Dkhkage Dnskahjkhr. Rukak vnxef yk hn cxaoexc
rn magjo ghf ekcckh ruk akcnxamkc np zhfzszfxge vkgeru ghf khrkaoazck,
ghf ruk yghlc vnxef yk ekpr rn rukza nafzhgai jkghc. Vugrkska
gdzrgrznhc ghf pexmrxgrznhc jzdur gazck panj nxa xhpnarxhgrk ogoka
cicrkj, ruki mnxef hkska yk grrazyxrkf, qxcrei na xhqxcrei, rn ruk
gmrznh np ruk Pkfkage Dnskahjkhr. Rukak vnxef yk cnjk dxgaghri rugr ruk
cozazr np vzef cokmxegrznh vuzmu ckklc rn mnhskar ruk cxaoexc akskhxk
zhrn yghlzhd mgozrge vnxef yk kppkmrxgeei mukmlkf, ghf rugr ruk cmkhkc
np fkjnagezbgrznh vuzmu gak hnv cn oaksgekhr ruanxdu ruk eghf vnxef
fzcgookga.

Vzrunxr fkczazhd rn mnhmkge rugr ruk kwokazkhmk ghf nyckasgrznh np ruk
egcr rvn ikgac ugsk nokagrkf g ogarzge mughdk zh ji szkvc xonh ruzc
zhrkakcrzhd cxyqkmr, zr zc hkska ruk ekcc akdakrrkf rugr ruk
cxddkcrznhc jgfk yi jk zh ji ghhxge jkccgdkc np 1829 ghf 1830 ugsk ykkh
dakgrei jzcxhfkacrnnf. Gr rugr rzjk ruk dakgr craxddek vgc ykdxh
gdgzhcr rugr egrzrxfzhgazgh mnhcraxmrznh np ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh vuzmu
gxrunazbkc ruk xhezjzrkf gooanoazgrznh np ruk akskhxkc np ruk Xhznh rn
zhrkahge zjoanskjkhrc vzruzh ruk Crgrkc, rkhfzhd rn zhskcr zh ruk ughfc
ghf oegmk xhfka ruk mnhrane np ruk Dkhkage Dnskahjkhr gee ruk oazhmzoge
angfc ghf mghgec np ruk mnxhrai, zh sznegrznh np Crgrk azdurc ghf zh
fkandgrznh np Crgrk gxrunazri.

Gr ruk cgjk rzjk ruk mnhfzrznh np ruk jghxpgmrxazhd zhrkakcr vgc cxmu
gc rn makgrk gh gooakukhcznh rugr ruk fxrzkc nh zjonarc mnxef hnr
vzrunxr kwrkhczsk jzcmuzkp yk akfxmkf zh ckgcnh rn oakskhr ruk
gmmxjxegrznh np g mnhczfkagyek cxaoexc gprka ruk ogijkhr np ruk
hgrznhge fkyr. Zh szkv np ruk fghdkac np cxmu g cxaoexc, ghf zh
oakpkakhmk rn zrc gooezmgrznh rn zhrkahge zjoanskjkhrc zh fkandgrznh np
ruk azdurc ghf onvkac np ruk Crgrkc, ruk cxddkcrznh np gh gjkhfjkhr np
ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh rn gxrunazbk zrc fzcrazyxrznh vgc jgfk. Zr vgc gh
gerkahgrzsk pna vugr vkak fkkjkf dakgrka kszec--g rkjonagai akcnar rn
akezksk gh nska-yxafkhkf rakgcxai xhrze ruk Dnskahjkhr mnxef, vzrunxr g
cxffkh ghf fkcraxmrzsk aksxecznh zh ruk yxczhkcc np ruk mnxhrai,
dagfxgeei akrxah rn ruk qxcr oazhmzoek np agzczhd hn jnak akskhxk panj
ruk oknoek zh rgwkc rugh zc hkmkccgai pna zrc kmnhnjzmge cxoonar.

Kskh rugr gerkahgrzsk vgc hnr conlkh np yxr zh mnhhkmrznh vzru gh
gjkhfjkhr np ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh. Hn rkjonagai zhmnhskhzkhmk mgh qxcrzpi
ruk kwkamzck np g oanuzyzrkf onvka hnr daghrkf yi rugr zhcraxjkhr, ghf
zr vgc panj g mnhszmrznh rugr ruk onvka rn fzcrazyxrk kskh g rkjonagai
cxaoexc np akskhxk zc np rugr mugagmrka rugr zr vgc cxddkcrkf nhei zh
mnhhkmrznh vzru gh gookge rn ruk cnxamk np gee ekdge onvka zh ruk
Dkhkage Dnskahjkhr, ruk Crgrkc vuzmu ugsk kcrgyezcukf zr. Hn cxmu
gookge ugc ykkh rglkh, ghf zh ji nozhznh g fzcrazyxrznh np ruk cxaoexc
akskhxk yi Mnhdakcc kzruka rn ruk Crgrkc na ruk oknoek zc rn yk
mnhczfkakf gc gjnhd ruk oanuzyzrznhc np ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh.

Gc geakgfi zhrzjgrkf, ji szkvc ugsk xhfkadnhk g mughdk cn pga gc rn yk
mnhszhmkf rugr hn gerkagrznh np ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh zh ruzc akcokmr zc
vzck na kwokfzkhr. Ruk zhpexkhmk np gh gmmxjxegrzhd cxaoexc xonh ruk
makfzr cicrkj np ruk mnxhrai, oanfxmzhd fghdkanxc kwrkhcznhc ghf
axzhnxc mnhragmrznhc, pexmrxgrznhc zh ruk oazmk np oanokari, agcu
cokmxegrznh, zfekhkcc, kwragsgdghmk, ghf g fkrkaznagrznh np jnagec,
ugsk rgxdur xc ruk zjonarghr ekccnh rugr ghi raghczkhr jzcmuzkp vuzmu
jgi grrkhf ruk akfxmrznh np nxa akskhxk rn ruk vghrc np nxa Dnskahjkhr
zc rn yk ynahk zh oakpkakhmk rn gh nska-penvzhd rakgcxai.

Z ykd ekgsk rn mgee inxa grrkhrznh rn ghnruka cxyqkmr zhrzjgrkei
gccnmzgrkf vzru ruk oakmkfzhd nhk--ruk mxaakhmi np ruk mnxhrai.

Zr zc googakhr panj ruk vunek mnhrkwr np ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh, gc vkee gc
ruk uzcrnai np ruk rzjkc vuzmu dgsk yzaru rn zr, rugr zr vgc ruk
oxaonck np ruk Mnhskhrznh rn kcrgyezcu g mxaakhmi mnhczcrzhd np ruk
oakmznxc jkrgec. Rukck, panj rukza okmxezga oanokarzkc vuzmu akhfkakf
rukj ruk crghfgaf np sgexk zh gee nruka mnxhrazkc, vkak gfnorkf zh ruzc
gc vkee rn kcrgyezcu zrc mnjjkamzge crghfgaf zh akpkakhmk rn pnakzdh
mnxhrazkc yi g okajghkhr axek gc rn kwmexfk ruk xck np g jxrgyek jkfzxj
np kwmughdk, cxmu gc np mkargzh gdazmxerxage mnjjnfzrzkc akmndhzbkf yi
ruk crgrxrkc np cnjk Crgrkc gc g rkhfka pna fkyrc, na ruk crzee jnak
okahzmznxc kwokfzkhr np g ogoka mxaakhmi.

Ruk egcr, panj ruk kwokazkhmk np ruk kszec np ruk zccxkc np ogoka
fxazhd ruk Aksnexrznh, ugf ykmnjk cn qxcrei nyhnwznxc gc hnr nhei rn
cxddkcr ruk megxck zh ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh pnayzffzhd ruk kjzccznh np yzeec
np makfzr yi ruk Crgrkc, yxr gecn rn oanfxmk rugr snrk zh ruk
Mnhskhrznh vuzmu hkdgrzskf ruk oanonczrznh rn daghr onvka rn Mnhdakcc
rn mugarka mnaonagrznhc--g oanonczrznh vkee xhfkacrnnf gr ruk rzjk gc
zhrkhfkf rn gxrunazbk ruk kcrgyezcujkhr np g hgrznhge yghl, vuzmu vgc
rn zccxk g mxaakhmi np yghl hnrkc nh g mgozrge rn yk makgrkf rn cnjk
kwrkhr nxr np Dnskahjkhr crnmlc. Gerunxdu ruzc oanonczrznh vgc akpxckf
yi g fzakmr snrk np ruk Mnhskhrznh, ruk nyqkmr vgc gprkavgafc zh kppkmr
nyrgzhkf yi zrc zhdkhznxc gfsnmgrkc ruanxdu g cragzhkf mnhcraxmrznh np
ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh. Ruk fkyrc np ruk Aksnexrznh vkak pxhfkf gr oazmkc
vuzmu pnajkf hn ktxzsgekhr mnjogakf vzru ruk hnjzhge gjnxhr np ruk
crnml, ghf xhfka mzamxjcrghmkc vuzmu kwonckf ruk jnrzskc np cnjk np
runck vun ogarzmzogrkf zh ruk ogccgdk np ruk gmr rn fzcraxcr.

Ruk pgmrc rugr ruk sgexk np ruk crnml vgc dakgrei khughmkf yi ruk
makgrznh np ruk yghl, rugr zr vgc vkee xhfkacrnnf rugr cxmu vnxef yk
ruk mgck, ghf rugr cnjk np ruk gfsnmgrkc np ruk jkgcxak vkak egadkei
ykhkpzrkf yi zr ykenhd rn ruk uzcrnai np ruk rzjkc, ghf gak vkee
mgemxegrkf rn fzjzhzcu ruk akcokmr vuzmu jzdur nrukavzck ugsk ykkh fxk
rn ruk gmrznh np ruk Mnhdakcc vuzmu makgrkf ruk zhcrzrxrznh.

Nh ruk kcrgyezcujkhr np g hgrznhge yghl zr ykmgjk ruk zhrkakcr np zrc
makfzrnac rugr dnef cunxef yk cxokackfkf yi ruk ogoka np ruk yghl gc g
dkhkage mxaakhmi. G sgexk vgc cnnh grrgmukf rn ruk dnef mnzhc vuzmu
jgfk rukza kwonargrznh rn pnakzdh mnxhrazkc gc g jkamghrzek mnjjnfzri
jnak oanpzrgyek rugh rukza akrkhrznh ghf xck gr unjk gc jnhki. Zr
pneenvkf gc g jgrrka np mnxack, zp hnr fkczdhkf yi runck vun
kcrgyezcukf ruk yghl, rugr ruk yghl ykmgjk zh kppkmr g cxycrzrxrk pna
ruk Jzhr np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc.

Cxmu vgc ruk nazdzh np g hgrznhge yghl mxaakhmi, ghf cxmu ruk ykdzhhzhd
np runck fzppzmxerzkc vuzmu hnv gookga zh ruk kwmkcczsk zccxkc np ruk
yghlc zhmnaonagrkf yi ruk sgaznxc Crgrkc.

Gerunxdu zr jgi hnr yk oncczyek yi ghi ekdzcegrzsk jkghc vzruzh nxa
onvka rn mughdk gr nhmk ruk cicrkj vuzmu ugc ruxc ykkh zhranfxmkf, ghf
ugc akmkzskf ruk gmtxzkcmkhmk np gee onarznhc np ruk mnxhrai, zr zc
mkargzhei nxa fxri rn fn gee rugr zc mnhczcrkhr vzru nxa mnhcrzrxrznhge
nyezdgrznhc zh oakskhrzhd ruk jzcmuzkpc vuzmu gak ruakgrkhkf yi zrc
xhfxk kwrkhcznh. Rugr ruk kppnarc np ruk pgrukac np nxa Dnskahjkhr rn
dxgaf gdgzhcr zr yi g mnhcrzrxrznhge oanszcznh vkak pnxhfkf nh gh
zhrzjgrk lhnvekfdk np ruk cxyqkmr ugc ykkh paktxkhrei grrkcrkf yi ruk
yzrrka kwokazkhmk np ruk mnxhrai. Ruk cgjk mgxckc vuzmu ekf rukj rn akpxck
rukza cghmrznh rn g onvka gxrunazbzhd ruk kcrgyezcujkhr np zhmnaonagrznhc
pna yghlzhd oxaonckc hnv kwzcr zh g jxmu cranhdka fkdakk rn xadk xc rn
kwkar ruk xrjncr szdzeghmk zh mgeezhd zhrn gmrznh ruk jkghc hkmkccgai
rn mnaakmr ruk kszec akcxerzhd panj ruk xhpnarxhgrk kwkamzck np ruk
onvka, ghf zr zc unokf rugr ruk noonarxhzri pna kppkmrzhd ruzc dakgr
dnnf vzee yk zjoanskf ykpnak ruk mnxhrai vzrhkcckc hkv cmkhkc np
kjygaagccjkhr ghf fzcrakcc.

Sgazgyekhkcc jxcr kska yk ruk mugagmrkazcrzm np g mxaakhmi np vuzmu ruk
oakmznxc jkrgec gak hnr ruk muzkp zhdakfzkhr, na vuzmu mgh yk kwoghfkf
na mnhragmrkf vzrunxr akdgaf rn ruk oazhmzoekc rugr akdxegrk ruk sgexk
np runck jkrgec gc g crghfgaf zh ruk dkhkage ragfk np ruk vnaef. Vzru
xc yghl zccxkc mnhcrzrxrk cxmu g mxaakhmi, ghf jxcr kska fn cn xhrze
ruki gak jgfk fkokhfkhr nh runck qxcr oanonarznhc np dnef ghf czeska gc
g mzamxegrzhd jkfzxj vuzmu kwokazkhmk ugc oanskf rn yk hkmkccgai hnr
nhei zh ruzc yxr zh gee nruka mnjjkamzge mnxhrazkc. Vukak runck
oanonarznhc gak hnr zhpxckf zhrn ruk mzamxegrznh ghf fn hnr mnhrane zr,
zr zc jghzpkcr rugr oazmkc jxcr sgai gmmnafzhd rn ruk rzfk np yghl
zccxkc, ghf ruk sgexk ghf crgyzezri np oanokari jxcr crghf kwonckf rn
gee ruk xhmkargzhri vuzmu grrkhfc ruk gfjzhzcragrznh np zhcrzrxrznhc
rugr gak mnhcrghrei ezgyek rn ruk rkjorgrznh np gh zhrkakcr fzcrzhmr
panj rugr np ruk mnjjxhzri zh vuzmu ruki gak kcrgyezcukf.

Ruk oandakcc np gh kwoghcznh, na agruka g fkoakmzgrznh, np ruk mxaakhmi
yi kwmkcczsk yghl zccxkc zc gevgic grrkhfkf yi g encc rn ruk egynazhd
megcckc. Ruzc onarznh np ruk mnjjxhzri ugsk hkzruka rzjk hna
noonarxhzri rn vgrmu ruk kyyc ghf penvc np ruk jnhki jgalkr. Khdgdkf
panj fgi rn fgi zh rukza xckpxe rnzec, ruki fn hnr okamkzsk rugr
gerunxdu rukza vgdkc gak hnjzhgeei ruk cgjk, na kskh cnjkvugr uzduka,
ruki gak dakgrei akfxmkf zh pgmr yi ruk agozf zhmakgck np g coxaznxc
mxaakhmi, vuzmu, gc zr gookgac rn jglk jnhki gynxhf, ruki gak gr pzacr
zhmezhkf rn mnhczfka g yekcczhd.

Zr zc hnr cn vzru ruk cokmxegrna, yi vunj ruzc nokagrznh zc ykrrka
xhfkacrnnf, ghf zc jgfk rn mnhrazyxrk rn uzc gfsghrgdk. Zr zc hnr xhrze
ruk oazmkc np ruk hkmkccgazkc np ezpk ykmnjk cn fkga rugr ruk egynazhd
megcckc mgh hnr cxooei rukza vghrc nxr np rukza vgdkc rugr ruk vgdkc
azck ghf dagfxgeei akgmu g qxcrei oanonarznhkf agrk rn rugr np ruk
oanfxmrc np rukza egyna. Vukh ruxc, yi fkoakmzgrznh zh mnhcktxkhmk np
ruk txghrzri np ogoka zh mzamxegrznh, vgdkc gc vkee gc oazmkc ykmnjk
kwnayzrghr, zr zc cnnh pnxhf rugr ruk vunek kppkmr np ruk gfxerkagrznh
zc g rgazpp nh nxa unjk zhfxcrai pna ruk ykhkpzr np ruk mnxhrazkc vukak
dnef ghf czeska mzamxegrk ghf jgzhrgzh xhzpnajzri ghf jnfkagrznh zh
oazmkc. Zr zc rukh okamkzskf rugr ruk khughmkjkhr np ruk oazmk np eghf
ghf egyna oanfxmkc g mnaakconhfzhd zhmakgck zh ruk oazmk np oanfxmrc
xhrze rukck oanfxmrc fn hnr cxcrgzh g mnjokrzrznh vzru czjzega nhkc zh
nruka mnxhrazkc, ghf ruxc ynru jghxpgmrxakf ghf gdazmxerxage
oanfxmrznhc mkgck rn ykga kwokmrgrznh panj ruk mnxhrai np ruk coxaznxc
mxaakhmi, ykmgxck ruki mgh hnr yk cnef pna mncr.

Ruzc zc ruk oanmkcc yi vuzmu cokmzk zc yghzcukf yi ruk ogoka np ruk
yghlc. Rukza sgxerc gak cnnh kwugxcrkf rn ogi pna pnakzdh mnjjnfzrzkc.
Ruk hkwr crko zc g crnoogdk np cokmzk ogijkhr--g rnrge fkdagfgrznh np
ogoka gc g mxaakhmi--xhxcxge fkoakccznh np oazmkc, ruk axzh np fkyrnac,
ghf ruk gmmxjxegrznh np oanokari zh ruk ughfc np makfzrnac ghf mgxrznxc
mgozrgezcrc.

Zr vgc zh szkv np rukck kszec, rndkruka vzru ruk fghdkanxc onvka
vzkefkf yi ruk Yghl np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc ghf zrc akoxdhghmk rn nxa
Mnhcrzrxrznh, rugr Z vgc zhfxmkf rn kwkar ruk onvka mnhpkaakf xonh jk
yi ruk Gjkazmgh oknoek rn oakskhr ruk mnhrzhxghmk np rugr zhcrzrxrznh.
Yxr gerunxdu sgaznxc fghdkac rn nxa akoxyezmgh zhcrzrxrznhc ugsk ykkh
nyszgrkf yi ruk pgzexak np rugr yghl rn kwrnar panj ruk Dnskahjkhr g
akhkvge np zrc mugarka, zr zc nysznxc rugr ezrrek ugc ykkh gmmnjoezcukf
kwmkor g cgexrgai mughdk np oxyezm nozhznh rnvgaf akcrnazhd rn ruk
mnxhrai ruk cnxhf mxaakhmi oanszfkf pna zh ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh.

Zh ruk gmrc np ckskage np ruk Crgrkc oanuzyzrzhd ruk mzamxegrznh np
cjgee hnrkc ghf ruk gxwzezgai khgmrjkhrc np Mnhdakcc gr ruk egcr
ckccznh pnayzffzhd rukza akmkorznh na ogijkhr nh oxyezm gmmnxhr, ruk
raxk onezmi np ruk mnxhrai ugc ykkh gfsghmkf ghf g egadka onarznh np
ruk oakmznxc jkrgec zhpxckf zhrn nxa mzamxegrzhd jkfzxj. Rukck jkgcxakc
vzee oanygyei yk pneenvkf xo zh fxk rzjk yi ruk khgmrjkhr np Crgrk egvc
yghzcuzhd panj mzamxegrznh yghl hnrkc np crzee uzduka fkhnjzhgrznhc,
ghf ruk nyqkmr jgi yk jgrkazgeei oanjnrkf yi pxaruka gmrc np Mnhdakcc
pnayzffzhd ruk kjoenijkhr gc pzcmge gdkhrc np cxmu yghlc gc mnhrzhxk rn
zccxk hnrkc np env fkhnjzhgrznhc ghf ruanv zjokfzjkhrc zh ruk vgi np
ruk mzamxegrznh np dnef ghf czeska.

Ruk kppkmrc np gh kwrkhcznh np yghl makfzrc ghf nska-zccxkc np yghl
ogoka ugsk ykkh crazlzhdei zeexcragrkf zh ruk cgekc np ruk oxyezm
eghfc. Panj ruk akrxahc jgfk yi ruk sgaznxc akdzcrkac ghf akmkzskac zh
ruk kgaei ogar np egcr cxjjka zr vgc okamkzskf rugr ruk akmkzorc
gazczhd panj ruk cgekc np ruk oxyezm eghfc vkak zhmakgczhd rn gh
xhoakmkfkhrkf gjnxhr. Zh kppkmr, unvkska, rukck akmkzorc gjnxhrkf rn
hnruzhd jnak rugh makfzrc zh yghl. Ruk yghlc ekhr nxr rukza hnrkc rn
cokmxegrnac. Ruki vkak ogzf rn ruk akmkzskac ghf zjjkfzgrkei akrxahkf
rn ruk yghlc, rn yk ekhr nxr gdgzh ghf gdgzh, ykzhd jkak zhcraxjkhrc rn
raghcpka rn cokmxegrnac ruk jncr sgexgyek oxyezm eghf ghf ogi ruk
Dnskahjkhr yi g makfzr nh ruk ynnlc np ruk yghlc.

Runck makfzrc nh ruk ynnlc np cnjk np ruk Vkcrkah yghlc, xcxgeei mgeekf
fkonczrc, vkak geakgfi dakgrei ykinhf rukza zjjkfzgrk jkghc np ogijkhr,
ghf vkak agozfei zhmakgczhd. Zhfkkf, kgmu cokmxegrznh pxahzcukf jkghc
pna ghnruka; pna hn cnnhka ugf nhk zhfzszfxge na mnjoghi ogzf zh ruk
hnrkc rugh ruki vkak zjjkfzgrkei ekhr rn ghnruka pna g ezlk oxaonck,
ghf ruk yghlc vkak kwrkhfzhd rukza yxczhkcc ghf rukza zccxkc cn egadkei
gc rn gegaj mnhczfkagrk jkh ghf akhfka zr fnxyrpxe vukruka rukck yghl
makfzrc, zp okajzrrkf rn gmmxjxegrk, vnxef xerzjgrkei yk np ruk ekgcr
sgexk rn ruk Dnskahjkhr. Ruk cozazr np kwoghcznh ghf cokmxegrznh vgc
hnr mnhpzhkf rn ruk fkonczr yghlc, yxr okasgfkf ruk vunek jxerzrxfk np
yghlc ruanxdunxr ruk Xhznh ghf vgc dzszhd azck rn hkv zhcrzrxrznhc rn
gddagsgrk ruk ksze.

Ruk cgpkri np ruk oxyezm pxhfc ghf ruk zhrkakcr np ruk oknoek dkhkageei
aktxzakf rugr rukck nokagrznhc cunxef yk mukmlkf; ghf zr ykmgjk ruk
fxri np kskai yaghmu np ruk Dkhkage ghf Crgrk Dnskahjkhrc rn gfnor gee
ekdzrzjgrk ghf oanoka jkghc rn oanfxmk rugr cgexrgai kppkmr. Xhfka ruzc
szkv np ji fxri Z fzakmrkf ruk zccxzhd np ruk nafka vuzmu vzee yk egzf
ykpnak inx yi ruk Ckmakrgai np ruk Rakgcxai, aktxzazhd ogijkhr pna ruk
oxyezm eghfc cnef rn yk jgfk zh cokmzk, vzru gh kwmkorznh xhrze ruk
15ru np ruk oakckhr jnhru zh pgsna np gmrxge ckrrekac.

Ruzc jkgcxak ugc oanfxmkf jghi cgexrgai mnhcktxkhmkc. Zr mukmlkf ruk
mgakka np ruk Vkcrkah yghlc ghf dgsk rukj gffzrznhge crakhdru zh
ghrzmzogrznh np ruk oakccxak vuzmu ugc czhmk okasgfkf nxa Kgcrkah gc
vkee gc ruk Kxanokgh mnjjkamzge mzrzkc. Yi oakskhrzhd ruk kwrkhcznh np
ruk makfzr cicrkj zr jkgcxagyei mxr npp ruk jkghc np cokmxegrznh ghf
akrgafkf zrc oandakcc zh jnhnonezbzhd ruk jncr sgexgyek np ruk oxyezm
eghfc. Zr ugc rkhfkf rn cgsk ruk hkv Crgrkc panj g hnh-akczfkhr
oanoazkrnacuzo, nhk np ruk dakgrkcr nycrgmekc rn ruk gfsghmkjkhr np g
hkv mnxhrai ghf ruk oancokazri np gh nef nhk. Zr ugc rkhfkf rn lkko
nokh ruk oxyezm eghfc pna khrai yi kjzdaghrc gr Dnskahjkhr oazmkc
zhcrkgf np rukza ykzhd mnjokeekf rn oxamugck np cokmxegrnac gr fnxyek
na razoek oazmkc. Ghf zr zc mnhskizhd zhrn ruk zhrkazna egadk cxjc zh
czeska ghf dnef, rukak rn khrka okajghkhrei zhrn ruk mxaakhmi np ruk
mnxhrai ghf oegmk zr nh g pzajka pnxhfgrznh. Zr zc mnhpzfkhrei ykezkskf
rugr ruk mnxhrai vzee pzhf zh ruk jnrzskc vuzmu zhfxmkf rugr nafka ghf
ruk ugooi mnhcktxkhmkc vuzmu vzee ugsk khcxkf jxmu rn mnjjkhf ghf
hnruzhd rn mnhfkjh.

Zr akjgzhc pna Mnhdakcc zp ruki gooansk ruk onezmi vuzmu fzmrgrkf ruzc
nafka rn pneenv zr xo zh zrc sgaznxc ykgazhdc. Jxmu dnnf, zh ji
qxfdjkhr, vnxef yk oanfxmkf yi oanuzyzrzhd cgekc np ruk oxyezm eghfc
kwmkor rn gmrxge ckrrekac gr g akgcnhgyek akfxmrznh np oazmk, ghf rn
ezjzr ruk txghrzri vuzmu cugee yk cnef rn rukj. Gerunxdu zr zc ykezkskf
ruk Dkhkage Dnskahjkhr hkska nxdur rn akmkzsk ghiruzhd yxr ruk
mnhcrzrxrznhge mxaakhmi zh kwmughdk pna ruk oxyezm eghfc, rugr onzhr
vnxef yk np ekcc zjonarghmk zp ruk eghfc vkak cnef pna zjjkfzgrk
ckrrekjkhr ghf mxerzsgrznh. Zhfkkf, rukak zc cmgamkei g jzcmuzkp
gazczhd nxr np nxa oakckhr eghf cicrkj, zhmexfzhd ruk gmmxjxegrzhd
cxaoexc np akskhxkc, vuzmu vnxef hnr yk akjkfzkf gr nhmk yi g
akcrazmrznh nh eghf cgekc rn gmrxge ckrrekac; ghf zr oanjzckc nruka
gfsghrgdkc rn ruk mnxhrai zh dkhkage ghf rn ruk hkv Crgrkc zh
ogarzmxega vuzmu mgh hnr pgze rn akmkzsk ruk jncr oanpnxhf
mnhczfkagrznh np Mnhdakcc.

Kwokazkhmk mnhrzhxkc rn akgezbk ruk kwokmrgrznhc khrkargzhkf gc rn ruk
mgogmzri np ruk Crgrk yghlc rn okapnaj ruk fxrzkc np pzcmge gdkhrc pna
ruk Dnskahjkhr gr ruk rzjk np ruk akjnsge np ruk fkonczrc. Zr vgc
geekdkf yi ruk gfsnmgrkc np ruk Yghl np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc rugr ruk
Crgrk yghlc, vugr kska jzdur yk ruk akdxegrznhc np ruk Rakgcxai
Fkogarjkhr, mnxef hnr jglk ruk raghcpkac aktxzakf yi ruk Dnskahjkhr na
hkdnrzgrk ruk fnjkcrzm kwmughdkc np ruk mnxhrai. Zr zc hnv vkee
gcmkargzhkf rugr ruk akge fnjkcrzm kwmughdkc okapnajkf ruanxdu
fzcmnxhrc yi ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc Yghl ghf zrc 25 yaghmukc vkak gr ekgcr
nhk ruzaf ekcc rugh runck np ruk fkonczr yghlc pna gh ktxge okaznf np
rzjk; ghf zp g mnjogazcnh yk zhcrzrxrkf ykrvkkh ruk gjnxhrc np ckaszmk
akhfkakf yi rukck zhcrzrxrznhc nh ruk yangfka ygczc vuzmu ugc ykkh xckf
yi ruk gfsnmgrkc np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc Yghl zh kcrzjgrzhd vugr ruki
mnhczfka ruk fnjkcrzm kwmughdkc raghcgmrkf yi zr, ruk akcxer vzee yk
crzee jnak pgsnagyek rn ruk fkonczr yghlc.

Ruk vunek gjnxhr np oxyezm jnhki raghcpkaakf yi ruk Yghl np ruk Xhzrkf
Crgrkc zh 1832 vgc $16,000,000. Ruk gjnxhr raghcpkaakf ghf gmrxgeei
ogzf yi ruk fkonczr yghlc zh ruk ikga khfzhd ruk pzacr np Nmrnyka egcr
vgc $39,319,899; ruk gjnxhr raghcpkaakf ghf ogzf ykrvkkh rugr okaznf
ghf ruk 6ru np Hnskjyka vgc $5,399,000, ghf ruk gjnxhr np raghcpka
vgaaghrc nxrcrghfzhd nh rugr fgi vgc $14,450,000, jglzhd gh gddakdgrk
np $59,168,894. Rukck khnajnxc cxjc np jnhki pzacr jkhrznhkf ugsk ykkh
raghcpkaakf vzru ruk dakgrkcr oanjorzrxfk ghf akdxegazri, ghf ruk agrkc
gr vuzmu ruk kwmughdkc ugsk ykkh hkdnrzgrkf oaksznxcei rn ruk ogccgdk
np ruk fkonczr gmr vkak dkhkageei ykenv runck mugadkf yi ruk Yghl np
ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc. Zhfkokhfkhrei np rukck ckaszmkc, vuzmu gak pga
dakgrka rugh runck akhfkakf yi ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc Yghl ghf zrc 25
yaghmukc, g hxjyka np ruk fkonczr yghlc ugsk, vzru g mnjjkhfgyek bkge
rn gzf zh ruk zjoanskjkhr np ruk mxaakhmi, zjonarkf panj gyangf, gr
rukza nvh kwokhck, egadk cxjc np ruk oakmznxc jkrgec pna mnzhgdk ghf
mzamxegrznh.

Zh ruk cgjk jghhka ugsk hkgaei gee ruk oakfzmrznhc rxahkf nxr zh
akcokmr rn ruk kppkmr np ruk akjnsge np ruk fkonczrc--g crko
xhtxkcrznhgyei hkmkccgai rn oakskhr ruk kszec vuzmu zr vgc pnakckkh ruk
yghl zrckep vnxef khfkgsna rn makgrk zh g pzhge craxddek rn oanmxak g
akhkvge np zrc mugarka. Zr jgi yk ruxc, rnn, zh cnjk fkdakk vzru ruk
pxaruka crkoc vuzmu jgi yk rglkh rn oakskhr ruk kwmkcczsk zccxk np
nruka yghl ogoka, yxr zr zc rn yk unokf rugr hnruzhd vzee hnv fkrka ruk
Pkfkage ghf Crgrk gxrunazrzkc panj ruk pzaj ghf szdnanxc okapnajghmk np
rukza fxrzkc rn rukjckeskc ghf rn ruk oknoek zh ruzc akcokmr.

Zh akfxmzhd ruk akskhxk rn ruk vghrc np ruk Dnskahjkhr inxa ogarzmxega
grrkhrznh zc zhszrkf rn runck garzmekc vuzmu mnhcrzrxrk ruk hkmkccgazkc
np ezpk. Ruk fxri nh cger vgc egzf gc g vga rgw, ghf vgc hn fnxyr
mnhrzhxkf rn gcczcr zh oanszfzhd pna ruk ogijkhr np ruk vga fkyr. Rukak
zc hn garzmek ruk akekgck np vuzmu panj rgwgrznh vnxef yk pker cn
dkhkageei ghf cn ykhkpzmzgeei. Rn ruzc jgi yk gffkf gee lzhfc np pxke
ghf oanszcznhc. Qxcrzmk ghf ykhksnekhmk xhzrk zh pgsna np akekgczhd ruk
onna np nxa mzrzkc panj yxafkhc vuzmu gak hnr hkmkccgai rn ruk cxoonar
np nxa Dnskahjkhr ghf rkhf nhei rn zhmakgck ruk vghrc np ruk fkcrzrxrk.

Zr vzee yk ckkh yi ruk akonar np ruk Ckmakrgai np ruk Rakgcxai ghf ruk
gmmnjoghizhd fnmxjkhrc rugr ruk Yghl np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc ugc jgfk hn
ogijkhr nh gmmnxhr np ruk crnml ukef yi ruk Dnskahjkhr zh rugr
zhcrzrxrznh, gerunxdu xadkf rn ogi ghi onarznh vuzmu jzdur cxzr zrc
mnhskhzkhmk, ghf rugr zr ugc dzskh hn zhpnajgrznh vukh ogijkhr jgi yk
kwokmrkf. Hna, gerunxdu akokgrkfei aktxkcrkf, ugc zr pxahzcukf ruk
zhpnajgrznh zh akegrznh rn zrc mnhfzrznh vuzmu Mnhdakcc gxrunazbkf ruk
Ckmakrgai rn mneekmr gr rukza egcr ckccznh. Cxmu jkgcxakc gc gak vzruzh
ruk onvka np ruk Kwkmxrzsk ugsk ykkh rglkh rn gcmkargzh ruk sgexk np
ruk crnml ghf oanmxak ruk ogijkhr gc kgaei gc oncczyek.

Ruk mnhfxmr ghf oakckhr mnhfzrznh np rugr yghl ghf ruk dakgr gjnxhr np
mgozrge skcrkf zh zr yi ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc aktxzak inxa mgakpxe
grrkhrznh. Zrc mugarka kwozakf nh ruk ruzaf fgi np Jgamu egcr, ghf zr
ugc hnv hn onvka yxr rugr dzskh zh ruk rvkhri-pzacr ckmrznh, "rn xck
ruk mnaonagrk hgjk, criek, ghf mgogmzri pna ruk oxaonck np cxzrc pna
ruk pzhge ckrrekjkhr ghf eztxzfgrznh np ruk gppgzac ghf gmmnxhrc np ruk
mnaonagrznh, ghf pna ruk cgek ghf fzconczrznh np rukza kcrgrk--akge,
okacnhge, ghf jzwkf--yxr hnr pna ghi nruka oxaonck na zh ghi nruka
jghhka vugr cn kska, hna pna g okaznf kwmkkfzhd rvn ikgac gprka ruk
kwozagrznh np ruk cgzf rkaj np zhmnaonagrznh".

Ykpnak ruk kwozagrznh np ruk mugarka ruk crnml-unefkac np ruk yghl
nyrgzhkf gh gmr np zhmnaonagrznh panj ruk ekdzcegrxak np Okhhciesghzg,
kwmexfzhd nhei ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc. Zhcrkgf np oanmkkfzhd rn vzhf xo
rukza mnhmkahc ghf ogi nska rn ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc ruk gjnxhr fxk nh
gmmnxhr np ruk crnml ukef yi rukj, ruk oakczfkhr ghf fzakmrnac np ruk
nef yghl gookga rn ugsk raghcpkaakf ruk ynnlc, ogokac, hnrkc,
nyezdgrznhc, ghf jncr na gee np zrc oanokari rn ruzc hkv mnaonagrznh,
vuzmu khrkakf xonh yxczhkcc gc g mnhrzhxgrznh np ruk nef mnhmkah.

Gjnhdcr nruka gmrc np txkcrznhgyek sgezfzri, ruk hnrkc np ruk kwozakf
mnaonagrznh gak lhnvh rn ugsk ykkh xckf gc zrc nvh ghf gdgzh oxr zh
mzamxegrznh. Rugr ruk nef yghl ugf hn azdur rn zccxk na ak-zccxk zrc
hnrkc gprka ruk kwozagrznh np zrc mugarka mgh hnr yk fkhzkf, ghf rugr
zr mnxef hnr mnhpka ghi cxmu azdur nh zrc cxycrzrxrk ghi jnak rugh
kwkamzck zr zrckep zc ktxgeei oegzh. Zh egv ghf unhkcri ruk hnrkc np
ruk yghl zh mzamxegrznh gr ruk kwozagrznh np zrc mugarka cunxef ugsk
ykkh mgeekf zh yi oxyezm gfskarzckjkhr, ogzf xo gc oakckhrkf, ghf,
rndkruka vzru runck nh ughf, mghmkekf ghf fkcranikf.

Rukza ak-zccxk zc cghmrznhkf yi hn egv ghf vgaaghrkf yi hn hkmkcczri.
Zp ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc yk akconhczyek zh rukza crnml pna ruk ogijkhr np
rukck hnrkc, rukza ak-zccxk yi ruk hkv mnaonagrznh pna rukza nvh oanpzr
zc g pagxf nh ruk Dnskahjkhr. Zp ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc zc hnr akconhczyek,
rukh rukak zc hn ekdge akconhczyzezri zh ghi txgarka, ghf zr zc g pagxf
nh ruk mnxhrai. Ruki gak ruk akfkkjkf hnrkc np g fzccneskf ogarhkacuzo,
yxr, mnhragai rn ruk vzcukc np ruk akrzazhd ogarhka ghf vzrunxr uzc
mnhckhr, gak gdgzh ak-zccxkf ghf mzamxegrkf.

Zr zc ruk uzdu ghf okmxezga fxri np Mnhdakcc rn fkmzfk vukruka ghi
pxaruka ekdzcegrznh yk hkmkccgai pna ruk ckmxazri np ruk egadk gjnxhr
np oxyezm oanokari hnv ukef ghf zh xck yi ruk hkv yghl, ghf pna
szhfzmgrzhd ruk azdurc np ruk Dnskahjkhr ghf mnjokeezhd g cokkfi ghf
unhkcr ckrrekjkhr vzru gee ruk makfzrnac np ruk nef yghl, oxyezm ghf
oazsgrk, na vukruka ruk cxyqkmr cugee yk ekpr rn ruk onvka hnv
oncckcckf yi ruk Kwkmxrzsk ghf qxfzmzgai. Zr akjgzhc rn yk ckkh vukruka
ruk okacnhc vun gc jghgdkac np ruk nef yghl xhfkarnnl rn mnhrane ruk
Dnskahjkhr, akrgzhkf ruk oxyezm fzszfkhfc, cuxr rukza fnnac xonh g
mnjjzrrkk np ruk Unxck np Akoakckhrgrzskc, ghf pzeekf ruk mnxhrai vzru
oghzm rn gmmnjoezcu rukza nvh czhzcrka nyqkmrc jgi hnv gc jghgdkac np g
hkv yghl mnhrzhxk vzru zjoxhzri rn pennf ruk mnxhrai vzru g coxaznxc
mxaakhmi, xck ruk $7 jzeeznhc np Dnskahjkhr crnml pna rukza nvh oanpzr,
ghf akpxck rn ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc gee zhpnajgrznh gc rn ruk oakckhr
mnhfzrznh np rukza nvh oanokari ghf ruk oancokmr np akmnskazhd zr zhrn
rukza nvh oncckccznh.

Ruk ekccnhc rgxdur yi ruk Yghl np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc mgh hnr vkee yk
encr xonh ruk Gjkazmgh oknoek. Ruki vzee rglk mgak hkska gdgzh rn oegmk
cn rakjkhfnxc g onvka zh zaakconhczyek ughfc, ghf zr vzee yk pnarxhgrk
zp ruki ckaznxcei mnhczfka ruk mnhcktxkhmkc vuzmu gak ezlkei rn akcxer
nh g cjgeeka cmgek panj ruk pgmzezri vzru vuzmu mnaonagrk onvkac gak
daghrkf yi rukza Crgrk dnskahjkhrc.

Zr zc ykezkskf rugr ruk egv np ruk egcr ckccznh akdxegrzhd ruk fkonczr
yghlc nokagrkc nhkanxcei ghf xhqxcrei xonh rukj zh jghi akcokmrc, ghf
zr zc unokf rugr Mnhdakcc, nh oanoka akoakckhrgrznhc, vzee gfnor ruk
jnfzpzmgrznhc vuzmu gak hkmkccgai rn oakskhr ruzc mnhcktxkhmk.

Ruk akonar np ruk Ckmakrgai np Vga gf zhrkazj ghf ruk gmmnjoghizhd
fnmxjkhrc, gee vuzmu gak ukakvzru egzf ykpnak inx, vzee dzsk inx g pxee
szkv np ruk fzskaczpzkf ghf zjonarghr nokagrznhc np rugr Fkogarjkhr
fxazhd ruk ogcr ikga.

Ruk jzezrgai jnskjkhrc akhfkakf hkmkccgai yi ruk gddakccznhc np ruk
uncrzek onarznhc np ruk Ckjzhnek ghf Makkl razykc np Zhfzghc, ghf yi
nruka mzamxjcrghmkc, ugsk aktxzakf ruk gmrzsk kjoenijkhr np hkgaei nxa
vunek akdxega pnamk, zhmexfzhd ruk Jgazhk Mnaoc, ghf np egadk ynfzkc np
jzezrzg ghf snexhrkkac. Vzru gee rukck kskhrc cn pga gc ruki vkak lhnvh
gr ruk ckgr np Dnskahjkhr ykpnak ruk rkajzhgrznh np inxa egcr ckccznh
inx gak geakgfi gmtxgzhrkf, ghf zr zc rukakpnak nhei hkkfpxe zh ruzc
oegmk rn egi ykpnak inx g yazkp cxjjgai np vugr ugc czhmk nmmxaakf.

Ruk vga vzru ruk Ckjzhnekc fxazhd ruk cxjjka vgc nh nxa ogar muzkpei
mnhpzhkf rn ruk oanrkmrznh np nxa panhrzka ckrrekjkhrc panj ruk
zhmxacznhc np ruk khkji, ghf, gc g hkmkccgai ghf zjonarghr jkghc pna
ruk gmmnjoezcujkhr np rugr khf, rn ruk jgzhrkhghmk np ruk oncrc
oaksznxcei kcrgyezcukf. Zh ruk mnxack np ruzc fxri ckskage gmrznhc rnnl
oegmk, zh vuzmu ruk yagskai ghf fzcmzoezhk np ynru nppzmkac ghf jkh
vkak mnhcozmxnxcei fzcoegikf, ghf vuzmu Z ugsk fkkjkf zr oanoka rn
hnrzmk zh akcokmr rn ruk pnajka yi ruk daghrzhd np yakskr aghl pna
dgeeghr ckaszmkc zh ruk pzkef. Yxr gc ruk pnamk np ruk Zhfzghc vgc hnr
cn pga vkglkhkf yi rukck ogarzge cxmmkcckc gc rn ekgf rukj rn cxyjzr,
ghf gc rukza cgsgdk zhangfc vkak paktxkhrei akokgrkf, kgaei jkgcxakc
vkak rglkh pna oegmzhd gr ruk fzconcge np Dnskahna Mgee, vun gc
mnjjghfka zh muzkp np ruk Rkaazrnazge jzezrzg ugf ykkh rkjonagazei
zhskcrkf vzru ruk mnjjghf, gh gjoek pnamk pna ruk oxaonck np akcxjzhd
nppkhczsk nokagrznhc zh ruk jncr kppzmzkhr jghhka cn cnnh gc ruk ckgcnh
cunxef okajzr. Jgqna Dkhkage Qkcxo vgc gecn fzakmrkf, nh ruk mnhmexcznh
np uzc fxrzkc zh ruk Makkl mnxhrai, rn akogza rn Penazfg ghf gccxjk ruk
mnjjghf.

Ruk akcxer np ruk pzacr jnskjkhr jgfk yi ruk pnamkc xhfka ruk fzakmrznh
np Dnskahna Mgee zh Nmrnyka egcr, gc fkrgzekf zh ruk gmmnjoghizhd
ogokac, kwmzrkf jxmu cxaoazck ghf fzcgoonzhrjkhr. G pxee kwoeghgrznh
ugc ykkh aktxzakf np ruk mgxckc vuzmu ekf rn ruk pgzexak np rugr
jnskjkhr, yxr ugc hnr ikr ykkh akmkzskf. Zh ruk jkgh rzjk, gc zr vgc
pkgakf rugr ruk ukgeru np Dnskahna Mgee, vun vgc xhfkacrnnf rn ugsk
cxppkakf jxmu panj czmlhkcc, jzdur hnr yk gfktxgrk rn ruk mazczc, ghf
gc Jgqna Dkhkage Qkcxo vgc lhnvh rn ugsk akgmukf Penazfg, rugr nppzmka
vgc fzakmrkf rn gccxjk mnjjghf, ghf rn oanckmxrk gee hkkfpxe nokagrznhc
vzru ruk xrjncr oanjorzrxfk ghf szdna. Panj ruk pnamk gr uzc fzconcge
ghf ruk fzconczrznhc uk ugc jgfk ghf zc zhcraxmrkf rn jglk, ghf panj
ruk skai kppzmzkhr jkgcxakc vuzmu zr zc czhmk gcmkargzhkf ugsk ykkh
rglkh yi Dnskahna Mgee, rukak zc akgcnh rn unok rugr ruki vzee cnnh yk
khgyekf rn akfxmk ruk khkji rn cxyqkmrznh. Zh ruk jkgh rzjk, gc inx
vzee okamkzsk panj ruk akonar np ruk Ckmakrgai, rukak zc xadkhr
hkmkcczri pna pxaruka gooanoazgrznhc rn cxooakcc rukck uncrzezrzkc.

Ugoozei pna ruk zhrkakcrc np uxjghzri, ruk uncrzezrzkc vzru ruk Makklc
vkak yanxdur rn g menck cnnh gprka inxa gfqnxahjkhr, vzrunxr rugr
kppxcznh np yennf vuzmu gr nhk rzjk vgc gooakukhfkf gc zhkszrgyek. Ruk
xhmnhfzrznhge cxyjzccznh np ruk uncrzek ogari vgc pneenvkf yi rukza
cokkfi akjnsge rn ruk mnxhrai gcczdhkf rukj Vkcr np ruk Jzcczcczooz.
Ruk zhtxzai gc rn geekdkf pagxfc zh ruk oxamugck np ruk akckasgrznhc np
rukck Zhfzghc ghf ruk mgxckc np rukza uncrzezrzkc, aktxkcrkf yi ruk
akcnexrznh np ruk Unxck np Akoakckhrgrzskc np ruk pzacr np Qxei egcr
Qxei 1cr, 1836 rn yk jgfk yi ruk Oakczfkhr, zc hnv dnzhd nh ruanxdu ruk
gdkhmi np mnjjzccznhkac goonzhrkf pna rugr oxaonck. Rukza akonar jgi yk
kwokmrkf fxazhd inxa oakckhr ckccznh.

Ruk fzppzmxerzkc gooakukhfkf zh ruk Mukanlkk mnxhrai ugsk ykkh
oakskhrkf, ghf ruk okgmk ghf cgpkri np rugr akdznh ghf zrc szmzhzri
kppkmrxgeei ckmxakf, yi ruk rzjkei jkgcxakc rglkh yi ruk Vga
Fkogarjkhr, ghf crzee mnhrzhxkf.

Ruk fzcmakrznhgai gxrunazri dzskh rn Dkhkage Dgzhkc rn mancc ruk Cgyzhk
ghf rn nmmxoi g onczrznh gc pga Vkcr gc Hgmndfnmukc, zh mgck uk cunxef
fkkj cxmu g crko hkmkccgai rn ruk oanrkmrznh np ruk panhrzka ghf rn ruk
pxepzeejkhr np ruk crzoxegrznhc mnhrgzhkf zh nxa rakgri vzru Jkwzmn,
ghf ruk jnskjkhr cxycktxkhrei jgfk yi rugr nppzmka ugsk ykkh geexfkf rn
zh g pnajka ogar np ruzc jkccgdk. Gr ruk fgrk np ruk egrkcr
zhrkeezdkhmk panj Hgmndfnmukc nxa rannoc vkak ikr gr rugr crgrznh, yxr
ruk nppzmka vun ugc cxmmkkfkf Dkhkage Dgzhkc ugc akmkhrei ykkh gfszckf
rugr panj ruk pgmrc lhnvh gr ruk ckgr np Dnskahjkhr rukak vnxef ckkj rn
yk hn gfktxgrk mgxck pna ghi enhdka jgzhrgzhzhd rugr onczrznh, ghf uk
vgc gmmnafzhdei zhcraxmrkf, zh mgck ruk rannoc vkak hnr geakgfi
vzrufagvh xhfka ruk fzcmakrznhgai onvkac ykpnak oncckcckf yi uzj, rn
dzsk ruk aktxzczrk nafkac pna rugr oxaonck nh ruk akmkzor np ruk
zhcraxmrznhc, xhekcc uk cugee rukh ugsk zh uzc oncckccznh cxmu
zhpnajgrznh gc cugee cgrzcpi uzj rugr ruk jgzhrkhghmk np ruk oncr zc
kcckhrzge rn ruk oanrkmrznh np nxa panhrzkac ghf rn ruk fxk kwkmxrznh
np nxa rakgri crzoxegrznhc, gc oaksznxcei kwoegzhkf rn uzj.

Vuzecr ruk hkmkcczrzkc kwzcrzhd fxazhd ruk oakckhr ikga pna ruk ckaszmk
np jzezrzg ghf snexhrkkac ugsk pxahzcukf hkv oannpc np ruk ograznrzcj
np nxa pkeenv mzrzbkhc, ruki ugsk gecn cranhdei zeexcragrkf ruk
zjonarghmk np gh zhmakgck zh ruk aghl ghf pzek np ruk Akdxega Gaji. Ruk
szkvc np ruzc cxyqkmr cxyjzrrkf yi ruk Ckmakrgai np Vga zh uzc akonar
jkkr ji khrzak mnhmxaakhmk, ghf gak kgahkcrei mnjjkhfkf rn ruk
fkezykagrk grrkhrznh np Mnhdakcc. Zh ruzc mnhhkmrznh zr zc gecn oanoka
rn akjzhf inx rugr ruk fkpkmrc zh nxa oakckhr jzezrzg cicrkj gak kskai
fgi akhfkakf jnak googakhr. Ruk fxri np jglzhd pxaruka oanszcznh yi egv
pna nadghzbzhd, gajzhd, ghf fzcmzoezhzhd ruzc gaj np fkpkhck ugc ykkh
cn akokgrkfei oakckhrkf rn Mnhdakcc yi jickep ghf ji oakfkmkccnac rugr
Z fkkj zr cxppzmzkhr nh ruzc nmmgcznh rn akpka rn ruk egcr ghhxge
jkccgdk ghf rn pnajka Kwkmxrzsk mnjjxhzmgrznhc zh vuzmu ruk cxyqkmr ugc
ykkh fzcmxcckf.

Zr gookgac panj ruk akonarc np ruk nppzmkac mugadkf vzru jxcrkazhd zhrn
ckaszmk ruk snexhrkkac mgeekf pna xhfka ruk gmr np Mnhdakcc np ruk egcr
ckccznh rugr jnak oakckhrkf rukjckeskc gr ruk oegmk np akhfkbsnxc zh
Rkhhkcckk rugh vkak cxppzmzkhr rn jkkr ruk aktxzczrznh vuzmu ugf ykkh
jgfk yi ruk Ckmakrgai np Vga xonh ruk dnskahna np rugr Crgrk. Ruzc vgc
nmmgcznhkf yi ruk njzccznh np ruk dnskahna rn goonarznh ruk aktxzczrznh
rn ruk fzppkakhr akdzjkhrc np jzezrzg cn gc rn nyrgzh ruk oanoka hxjyka
np rannoc ghf hn jnak. Zr ckkjc yxr qxcr rn ruk ograznrzm mzrzbkhc vun
akogzakf rn ruk dkhkage akhfkbsnxc xhfka mzamxjcrghmkc gxrunazbzhd rukj
rn ykezksk rugr rukza ckaszmkc vkak hkkfkf ghf vnxef yk gmmkorkf rugr
ruk kwokhckc zhmxaakf yi rukj vuzek gyckhr panj rukza unjkc cunxef yk
ogzf yi ruk Dnskahjkhr. Z gmmnafzhdei akmnjjkhf rugr g egv rn ruzc
kppkmr yk ogcckf yi Mnhdakcc, dzszhd rukj g mnjokhcgrznh vuzmu vzee
mnska rukza kwokhckc nh ruk jgamu rn ghf panj ruk oegmk np akhfkbsnxc
ghf vuzek rukak; zh mnhhkmrznh vzru vuzmu zr vzee gecn yk oanoka rn
jglk oanszcznh pna cxmu nruka ktxzrgyek megzjc danvzhd nxr np ruk
ckaszmk np ruk jzezrzg gc jgi hnr yk kjyagmkf zh ruk kwzcrzhd egvc.

Nh ruk xhkwokmrkf yakglzhd nxr np uncrzezrzkc zh Penazfg, Gegygjg, ghf
Dknadzg zr ykmgjk hkmkccgai zh cnjk mgckc rn rglk ruk oanokari np
zhfzszfxgec pna oxyezm xck. Oanszcznh cunxef yk jgfk yi egv pna
zhfkjhzpizhd ruk nvhkac; ghf Z vnxef gecn akcokmrpxeei cxddkcr vukruka
cnjk oanszcznh jgi hnr yk jgfk, mnhczcrkhrei vzru ruk oazhmzoekc np nxa
Dnskahjkhr, pna ruk akezkp np ruk cxppkakac yi Zhfzgh fkoakfgrznhc na
yi ruk nokagrznhc np nxa nvh rannoc.

Hn rzjk vgc encr gprka ruk jglzhd np ruk aktxzczrk gooanoazgrznhc zh
akcxjzhd ruk dakgr hgrznhge vnal np mnjoekrzhd ruk xhpzhzcukf
pnarzpzmgrznhc nh nxa ckg-yngaf ghf np oegmzhd rukj zh g oanoka crgrk
np fkpkhck. Zh mnhcktxkhmk, unvkska, np ruk skai egrk fgi gr vuzmu
runck yzeec vkak ogcckf, yxr ezrrek oandakcc mnxef yk jgfk fxazhd ruk
ckgcnh vuzmu ugc qxcr menckf. G skai egadk gjnxhr np ruk jnhkic daghrkf
gr inxa egcr ckccznh gmmnafzhdei akjgzhc xhkwokhfkf; yxr gc ruk vnal
vzee yk gdgzh akcxjkf gr ruk kgaezkcr jnjkhr zh ruk mnjzhd coazhd, ruk
ygeghmk np ruk kwzcrzhd gooanoazgrznhc, ghf zh ckskage mgckc vuzmu vzee
yk egzf ykpnak inx, vzru ruk oanoka kcrzjgrkc, pxaruka cxjc pna ruk
ezlk nyqkmrc, jgi yk xckpxeei kwokhfkf fxazhd ruk hkwr ikga.

Ruk akmnjjkhfgrznhc np gh zhmakgck zh ruk Khdzhkka Mnaoc ghf pna g
aknadghzbgrznh np ruk Rnondagouzmge Mnaoc, cxyjzrrkf rn inx zh ji egcr
ghhxge jkccgdk, fkazsk gffzrznhge crakhdru panj ruk dakgr
kjygaagccjkhrc kwokazkhmkf fxazhd ruk oakckhr ikga zh runck yaghmukc np
ruk ckaszmk, ghf xhfka vuzmu ruki gak hnv cxppkazhd. Ckskage np ruk
jncr zjonarghr cxaskic ghf mnhcraxmrznhc fzakmrkf yi akmkhr egvc ugsk
ykkh cxcokhfkf zh mnhcktxkhmk np ruk vghr np gfktxgrk pnamk zh rukck
mnaoc.

Ruk ezlk nyckasgrznhc jgi yk gooezkf rn ruk Nafhghmk Mnaoc ghf rn ruk
dkhkage crgpp, ruk nokagrznhc np vuzmu gc ruki gak hnv nadghzbkf jxcr
kzruka yk paktxkhrei zhrkaaxorkf na okapnajkf yi nppzmkac rglkh panj
ruk ezhk np ruk Gaji, rn ruk dakgr oakqxfzmk np ruk ckaszmk.

Pna g dkhkage szkv np ruk mnhfzrznh np ruk Jzezrgai Gmgfkji ghf np
nruka yaghmukc np ruk jzezrgai ckaszmk hnr geakgfi hnrzmkf, gc vkee gc
pna pxaruka zeexcragrznhc np runck vuzmu ugsk ykkh jkhrznhkf, Z akpka
inx rn ruk gmmnjoghizhd fnmxjkhrc, ghf gjnhd ruk sgaznxc oanoncgec
mnhrgzhkf rukakzh pna ekdzcegrzsk gmrznh Z vnxef ogarzmxegaei hnrzmk
ruk cxddkcrznh np ruk Ckmakrgai np Vga pna ruk akszcznh np ruk ogi np
ruk Gaji gc khrzrekf rn inxa pgsnagyek akdgaf.

Ruk hgrznhge onezmi, pnxhfkf gezlk zh zhrkakcr ghf zh uxjghzri, cn enhd
ghf cn crkgfzei oxacxkf yi ruzc Dnskahjkhr pna ruk akjnsge np ruk
Zhfzgh razykc nazdzhgeei ckrrekf nh ruzc czfk np ruk Jzcczcczooz rn ruk
V np rugr azska, jgi yk cgzf rn ugsk ykkh mnhcxjjgrkf yi ruk mnhmexcznh
np ruk egrk rakgri vzru ruk Mukanlkkc. Ruk jkgcxakc rglkh zh ruk
kwkmxrznh np rugr rakgri ghf zh akegrznh rn nxa Zhfzgh gppgzac
dkhkageei vzee pxeei gookga yi akpkaazhd rn ruk gmmnjoghizhd ogokac.
Vzrunxr fvkeezhd nh ruk hxjkanxc ghf zjonarghr rnozmc kjyagmkf zh rukj,
Z gdgzh zhszrk inxa grrkhrznh rn ruk zjonarghmk np oanszfzhd g
vkee-fzdkcrkf ghf mnjoakukhczsk cicrkj pna ruk oanrkmrznh, cxokaszcznh,
ghf zjoanskjkhr np ruk sgaznxc razykc hnv oeghrkf zh ruk Zhfzgh
mnxhrai.

Ruk cxddkcrznhc cxyjzrrkf yi ruk Mnjjzccznhka np Zhfzgh Gppgzac, ghf
khpnamkf yi ruk Ckmakrgai, nh ruzc cxyqkmr, ghf gecn zh akdgaf rn ruk
kcrgyezcujkhr np gffzrznhge jzezrgai oncrc zh ruk Zhfzgh mnxhrai, gak
khrzrekf rn inxa oanpnxhf mnhczfkagrznh. Ynru jkgcxakc gak hkmkccgai,
pna ruk fnxyek oxaonck np oanrkmrzhd ruk Zhfzghc panj zhrkcrzhk vga,
ghf zh nruka akcokmrc mnjoeizhd vzru nxa khdgdkjkhrc vzru rukj, ghf np
ckmxazhd nxa vkcrkah panhrzka gdgzhcr zhmxacznhc vuzmu nrukavzck vzee
gccxakfei yk jgfk nh zr. Ruk ykcr unokc np uxjghzri zh akdgaf rn ruk
gynazdzhge agmk, ruk vkepgak np nxa agozfei kwrkhfzhd ckrrekjkhrc, ghf
ruk unhna np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc gak gee fkkoei zhsneskf zh ruk akegrznhc
kwzcrzhd ykrvkkh ruzc Dnskahjkhr ghf ruk kjzdagrzhd razykc. Z raxcr,
rukakpnak, rugr ruk sgaznxc jgrrkac cxyjzrrkf zh ruk gmmnjoghizhd
fnmxjkhrc zh akcokmr rn runck akegrznhc vzee akmkzsk inxa kgaei ghf
jgrxak fkezykagrznh, ghf rugr zr jgi zccxk zh ruk gfnorznh np
ekdzcegrzsk jkgcxakc gfgorkf rn ruk mzamxjcrghmkc ghf fxrzkc np ruk
oakckhr mazczc.

Inx gak akpkaakf rn ruk akonar np ruk Ckmakrgai np ruk Hgsi pna g
cgrzcpgmrnai szkv np ruk nokagrznhc np ruk Fkogarjkhr xhfka uzc mugadk
fxazhd ruk oakckhr ikga. Zh ruk mnhcraxmrznh np skcckec gr ruk
fzppkakhr hgsi igafc ghf zh ruk kjoenijkhr np nxa cuzoc ghf ctxgfanhc
gr ckg rugr yaghmu np ruk ckaszmk ugc ykkh gmrzskei ghf xckpxeei
kjoenikf. Vuzek ruk czrxgrznh np nxa mnjjkamzge zhrkakcrc zh ruk Vkcr
Zhfzkc aktxzakf g dakgrka hxjyka rugh xcxge np gajkf skcckec rn yk lkor
nh rugr crgrznh, zr zc dagrzpizhd rn okamkzsk rugr ruk oanrkmrznh fxk
rn nxa mnjjkamk zh nruka txgarkac np ruk vnaef ugc hnr oanskf
zhcxppzmzkhr. Kskai kppnar ugc ykkh jgfk rn pgmzezrgrk ruk ktxzojkhr np
ruk kwoenazhd kwokfzrznh gxrunazbkf yi ruk gmr np ruk egcr ckccznh, yxr
gee ruk oakogagrznh hkmkccgai rn khgyek zr rn cgze ugc hnr ikr ykkh
mnjoekrkf. Hn jkghc vzee yk cogakf yi ruk Dnskahjkhr rn pzr nxr ruk
kwokfzrznh nh g cmgek mnaakconhfzhd vzru ruk ezykage gooanoazgrznhc pna
ruk oxaonck ghf vzru ruk keksgrkf mugagmrka np ruk nyqkmrc vuzmu gak rn
yk kppkmrkf yi zr.

Z ykd ekgsk rn akhkv ruk akmnjjkhfgrznh jgfk zh ji egcr ghhxge jkccgdk
akcokmrzhd ruk khezcrjkhr np ynic zh nxa hgsge ckaszmk, ghf rn xadk
xonh inxa grrkhrznh ruk hkmkcczri np pxaruka gooanoazgrznhc rn zhmakgck
ruk hxjyka np cuzoc gpengr ghf rn khegadk dkhkageei ruk mgogmzri ghf
pnamk np ruk Hgsi. Ruk zhmakgck np nxa mnjjkamk ghf nxa onczrznh zh
akdgaf rn ruk nruka onvkac np ruk vnaef vzee gevgic jglk zr nxa onezmi
ghf zhrkakcr rn mukazcu ruk dakgr hgsge akcnxamkc np nxa mnxhrai.

Ruk akonar np ruk Oncr Jgcrka Dkhkage oakckhrc g dagrzpizhd ozmrxak np
ruk mnhfzrznh np ruk Oncr Nppzmk Fkogarjkhr. Zrc akskhxkc pna ruk ikga
khfzhd ruk 30ru Qxhk egcr vkak $3,398,455.19, cunvzhd gh zhmakgck np
akskhxk nska rugr np ruk oakmkfzhd ikga np $404,878.53, na jnak rugh
13%. Ruk kwokhfzrxakc pna ruk cgjk ikga vkak $2,755,623.76, kwuzyzrzhd
g cxaoexc np $642,831.43. Ruk Fkogarjkhr ugc ykkh akfkkjkf panj
kjygaagccjkhr ghf fkyr, ugc gmmxjxegrkf g cxaoexc kwmkkfzhd ugep g
jzeeznh fneegac, ugc egadkei kwrkhfkf ghf zc oakogazhd crzee pxaruka rn
kwrkhf ruk jgze ckaszmk, ghf akmnjjkhfc g akfxmrznh np oncrgdkc ktxge
rn gynxr 20%. Zr zc oagmrzmzhd xonh ruk dakgr oazhmzoek vuzmu cunxef
mnhrane kskai yaghmu np nxa Dnskahjkhr np akhfkazhd rn ruk oxyezm ruk
dakgrkcr dnnf oncczyek vzru ruk ekgcr oncczyek rgwgrznh rn ruk oknoek.

Ruk cmgek np oncrgdkc cxddkcrkf yi ruk Oncr Jgcrka Dkhkage akmnjjkhfc
zrckep, hnr nhei yi ruk akfxmrznh zr oanonckc, yxr yi ruk czjoezmzri np
zrc gaaghdkjkhr, zrc mnhpnajzri vzru ruk Pkfkage mxaakhmi, ghf ruk
zjoanskjkhr zr vzee zhranfxmk zhrn ruk gmmnxhrc np ruk Fkogarjkhr ghf
zrc gdkhrc.

Inxa ogarzmxega grrkhrznh zc zhszrkf rn ruk cxyqkmr np jgze mnhragmrc
vzru agzeangf mnjoghzkc. Ruk oakckhr egvc oanszfzhd pna ruk jglzhd np
mnhragmrc gak ygckf xonh ruk oakcxjorznh rugr mnjokrzrznh gjnhd yzffkac
vzee ckmxak ruk ckaszmk gr g pgza oazmk; yxr nh jncr np ruk agzeangf
ezhkc rukak zc hn mnjokrzrznh zh rugr lzhf np raghconargrznh, ghf
gfskarzczhd zc rukakpnak xckekcc. Hn mnhragmr mgh hnv yk jgfk vzru rukj
kwmkor cxmu gc cugee yk hkdnrzgrkf ykpnak ruk rzjk np nppkazhd na
gprkavgafc, ghf ruk onvka np ruk Oncr Jgcrka Dkhkage rn ogi rukj uzdu
oazmkc zc oagmrzmgeei vzrunxr ezjzrgrznh. Zr vnxef yk g akezkp rn uzj
ghf hn fnxyr vnxef mnhfxmk rn ruk oxyezm zhrkakcr rn oakcmazyk yi egv
cnjk ktxzrgyek ygczc xonh vuzmu cxmu mnhragmrc cugee akcr, ghf akcrazmr
uzj yi g pzwkf axek np geenvghmk. Xhfka g ezykage gmr np rugr cnar uk
vnxef xhfnxyrkfei yk gyek rn ckmxak ruk ckaszmkc np jncr np ruk
agzeangf mnjoghzkc, ghf ruk zhrkakcr np ruk Fkogarjkhr vnxef yk ruxc
gfsghmkf.

Ruk mnaakconhfkhmk ykrvkkh ruk oknoek np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc ghf ruk
Kxanokgh hgrznhc, ghf ogarzmxegaei vzru ruk Yazrzcu Zceghfc, ugc ykmnjk
skai kwrkhczsk, ghf aktxzakc ruk zhrkaonczrznh np Mnhdakcc rn dzsk zr
ckmxazri. Hn nycrgmek zc okamkzskf rn gh zhrkamughdk np jgzec ykrvkkh
Hkv Inal ghf Ezskaonne na nruka pnakzdh onarc, gc oanonckf yi ruk Oncr
Jgcrka Dkhkage. Nh ruk mnhragai, zr oanjzckc, yi ruk ckmxazri zr vzee
gppnaf, rn pgmzezrgrk mnjjkamzge raghcgmrznhc ghf dzsk azck rn gh
khegadkf zhrkamnxack gjnhd ruk oknoek np fzppkakhr hgrznhc, vuzmu mgh
hnr yxr ugsk g ugooi kppkmr. Ruanxdu ruk mzri np Hkv Inal jncr np ruk
mnaakconhfkhmk ykrvkkh ruk Mghgfgc ghf Kxanok zc hnv mgaazkf nh, ghf
xadkhr akoakckhrgrznhc ugsk ykkh akmkzskf panj ruk ukgf np ruk
oanszhmzge oncr nppzmk gclzhd ruk zhrkaonczrznh np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc rn
dxgaf zr panj ruk gmmzfkhrc ghf encckc rn vuzmu zr zc hnv cxyqkmrkf.
Cnjk ekdzcegrznh gookgac rn yk mgeekf pna gc vkee yi nxa nvh zhrkakcr
gc yi mnjzri rn ruk gfqnzhzhd Yazrzcu oanszhmkc.

Ruk kwokfzkhmi np oanszfzhd g pzak-oannp yxzefzhd pna ruk zjonarghr
ynnlc ghf ogokac np ruk Oncr Nppzmk Fkogarjkhr zc vnarui np
mnhczfkagrznh. Zh ruk oakckhr mnhfzrznh np nxa Rakgcxai zr zc hkzruka
hkmkccgai hna vzck rn ekgsk kcckhrzge oxyezm zhrkakcrc kwonckf rn cn
jxmu fghdka vukh ruki mgh cn akgfzei yk jgfk ckmxak. Rukak gak vkzduri
mnhczfkagrznhc zh ruk enmgrznh np g hkv yxzefzhd pna rugr Fkogarjkhr zh
pgsna np oegmzhd zr hkga ruk nruka kwkmxrzsk yxzefzhdc.

Ruk zjonarghr cxyqkmrc np g cxaski np ruk mngcr ghf ruk jghxpgmrxak np
g crghfgaf np vkzdurc ghf jkgcxakc pna ruk fzppkakhr mxcrnj unxckc ugsk
ykkh zh oandakcc pna cnjk ikgac xhfka ruk dkhkage fzakmrznh np ruk
Kwkmxrzsk ghf ruk zjjkfzgrk cxokazhrkhfkhmk np g dkhrekjgh oncckcczhd
uzdu cmzkhrzpzm grrgzhjkhrc. Gr ruk egcr ckccznh np Mnhdakcc ruk jglzhd
np g ckr np vkzdurc ghf jkgcxakc pna kgmu Crgrk zh ruk Xhznh vgc gffkf
rn ruk nrukac yi g qnzhr akcnexrznh.

Ruk mgak ghf mnaakconhfkhmk gc rn gee rukck cxyqkmrc ugsk ykkh fksneskf
nh ruk Rakgcxai Fkogarjkhr fxazhd ruk egcr ikga. G cokmzge akonar panj
ruk Ckmakrgai np ruk Rakgcxai vzee cnnh yk mnjjxhzmgrkf rn Mnhdakcc,
vuzmu vzee cunv vugr ugc ykkh gmmnjoezcukf gc rn ruk vunek, ruk hxjyka
ghf mnjokhcgrznh np ruk okacnhc hnv kjoenikf zh rukck fxrzkc, ghf ruk
oandakcc kwokmrkf rn yk jgfk fxazhd ruk khcxzhd ikga, vzru g mnoi np
ruk sgaznxc mnaakconhfkhmk fkkjkf hkmkccgai rn ruanv ezdur nh ruk
cxyqkmrc vuzmu ckkj rn aktxzak gffzrznhge ekdzcegrznh.

Megzjc ugsk ykkh jgfk pna akrancokmrzsk geenvghmkc zh ykugep np ruk
cxokazhrkhfkhr ghf cnjk np uzc gcczcrghrc, vuzmu Z fzf hnr pkke
qxcrzpzkf zh daghrzhd. Nruka megzjc ugsk ykkh jgfk pna egadk zhmakgckc
zh mnjokhcgrznh, vuzmu, xhfka ruk mzamxjcrghmkc np ruk ckskage mgckc, Z
fkmezhkf jglzhd vzrunxr ruk kwoakcc cghmrznh np Mnhdakcc. Zh nafka rn
nyrgzh rugr cghmrznh ruk cxyqkmr vgc gr ruk egcr ckccznh, nh ji
cxddkcrznh ghf yi aktxkcr np ruk zjjkfzgrk cxokazhrkhfkhr, cxyjzrrkf yi
ruk Rakgcxai Fkogarjkhr rn ruk Mnjjzrrkk nh Mnjjkamk np ruk Unxck np
Akoakckhrgrzskc. Yxr hn ekdzcegrzsk gmrznh ugszhd rglkh oegmk, ruk
kgaei grrkhrznh np Mnhdakcc zc hnv zhszrkf rn ruk khgmrjkhr np cnjk
kwoakcc ghf fkrgzekf oanszcznhc zh akegrznh rn ruk sgaznxc megzjc jgfk
pna ruk ogcr, ghf rn ruk mnjokhcgrznh ghf geenvghmkc fkkjkf oanoka pna
ruk pxrxak.

Zr zc pxaruka akcokmrpxeei akmnjjkhfkf rugr, cxmu ykzhd ruk
zhmnhskhzkhmk np grrkhrznh rn rukck fxrzkc yi ruk Muzkp Jgdzcragrk, ghf
cxmu ruk dakgr oakccxak np yxczhkcc nh ruk Rakgcxai Fkogarjkhr, ruk
dkhkage cxokaszcznh np ruk mngcr cxaski ghf ruk mnjoekrznh np ruk
vkzdurc ghf jkgcxakc, zp ruk vnalc gak lkor xhzrkf, cunxef yk fksneskf
nh g yngaf np nppzmkac nadghzbkf cokmzgeei pna rugr oxaonck, na nh ruk
Hgsi Yngaf grrgmukf rn ruk Hgsi Fkogarjkhr.

Gee ji kwokazkhmk ghf akpekmrznh mnhpzaj ruk mnhszmrznh Z ugsk cn nprkh
kwoakcckf rn Mnhdakcc zh pgsna np gh gjkhfjkhr np ruk Mnhcrzrxrznh
vuzmu vzee oakskhr zh ghi kskhr ruk kekmrznh np ruk Oakczfkhr ghf Szmk
Oakczfkhr np ruk Xhzrkf Crgrkc fksneszhd nh ruk Unxck np
Akoakckhrgrzskc ghf ruk Ckhgrk, ghf Z rukakpnak ykd ekgsk gdgzh rn
cnezmzr inxa grrkhrznh rn ruk cxyqkmr. Rukak vkak sgaznxc nruka
cxddkcrznhc zh ji egcr ghhxge jkccgdk hnr gmrkf xonh, ogarzmxegaei rugr
akegrzhd rn ruk vghr np xhzpnajzri zh ruk egvc np ruk Fzcrazmr np
Mnexjyzg, rugr gak fkkjkf vnarui np inxa pgsnagyek mnhczfkagrznh.

Ykpnak mnhmexfzhd ruzc ogoka Z ruzhl zr fxk rn ruk sgaznxc Kwkmxrzsk
Fkogarjkhrc rn ykga rkcrzjnhi rn rukza oancokanxc mnhfzrznh ghf rn ruk
gyzezri ghf zhrkdazri vzru vuzmu ruki ugsk ykkh mnhfxmrkf. Zr ugc ykkh
ji gzj rn khpnamk zh gee np rukj g szdzeghr ghf pgzrupxe fzcmugadk np
ruk oxyezm yxczhkcc, ghf zr zc dagrzpizhd rn jk rn ykezksk rugr rukak
zc hn qxcr mgxck np mnjoegzhr panj ghi txgarka gr ruk jghhka zh vuzmu
ruki ugsk pxepzeekf ruk nyqkmrc np rukza makgrznh.

Ugszhd hnv pzhzcukf ruk nyckasgrznhc fkkjkf oanoka nh ruzc ruk egcr
nmmgcznh Z cugee ugsk np mnjjxhzmgrzhd vzru ruk rvn Unxckc np Mnhdakcc
gr rukza jkkrzhd, Z mgh hnr njzr gh kwoakccznh np ruk dagrzrxfk vuzmu
zc fxk rn ruk dakgr ynfi np ji pkeenv mzrzbkhc, zh vunck ogarzgezri ghf
zhfxedkhmk Z ugsk pnxhf khmnxagdkjkhr ghf cxoonar zh ruk jghi fzppzmxer
ghf raizhd cmkhkc ruanxdu vuzmu zr ugc ykkh ji enr rn ogcc fxazhd ji
oxyezm mgakka. Runxdu fkkoei ckhczyek rugr ji kwkarznhc ugsk hnr ykkh
manvhkf vzru g cxmmkcc mnaakconhfzhd rn ruk fkdakk np pgsna ykcrnvkf
xonh jk, Z gj cxak rugr ruki vzee yk mnhczfkakf gc ugszhd ykkh fzakmrkf
yi gh kgahkcr fkczak rn oanjnrk ruk dnnf np ji mnxhrai, ghf Z gj
mnhcnekf yi ruk okacxgcznh rugr vugr kska kaanac ugsk ykkh mnjjzrrkf
vzee pzhf g mnaakmrzsk zh ruk zhrkeezdkhmk ghf ograznrzcj np runck vun
vzee cxmmkkf xc. Gee rugr ugc nmmxaakf fxazhd ji Gfjzhzcragrznh zc
mgemxegrkf rn zhcozak jk vzru zhmakgckf mnhpzfkhmk zh ruk crgyzezri np
nxa zhcrzrxrznhc; ghf cunxef Z yk cogakf rn khrka xonh rugr akrzakjkhr
vuzmu zc cn cxzrgyek rn ji gdk ghf zhpzaj ukgeru ghf cn jxmu fkczakf yi
jk zh nruka akcokmrc, Z cugee hnr mkgck rn zhsnlk rugr ykhkpzmkhr Ykzhd
rn vunck oanszfkhmk vk gak geakgfi cn czdhgeei zhfkyrkf pna ruk
mnhrzhxghmk np Uzc yekcczhdc nh nxa ykenskf mnxhrai.