Irqqbt Sukuorem bi kxr Mreakr aef bi kxr Xbwmr bi Jrpjrmrekakuyrm:

Ue prjibjduez dl fwkl ak kxr bpreuez bi lbwj pjrmrek mrmmube uk zuyrm
dr pqramwjr kb sbezjakwqakr lbw azaue wpbe kxr pjbmprjbwm sbefukube bi
bwj crqbyrf sbwekjl. Fuyuer Pjbyufresr xam iaybjrf wm tukx zrerjaq
xraqkx, tukx jusx jrtajfm ue kxr iurqfm bi azjuswqkwjr aef ue ryrjl
cjaesx bi qacbj, aef tukx prasr kb swqkuyakr aef rhkref kxr yajubwm
jrmbwjsrm txusx rdpqbl kxr yujkwr aef rekrjpjumr bi bwj sukuorem. Qrk
wm kjwmk kxak ue mwjyrluez a msrer mb iqakkrjuez kb bwj ijrr
uemkukwkubem bwj gbuek frqucrjakubem kb pjrmrjyr kxrd dal cr sjbterf
tukx mwssrmm.

Bwj ibjruze jrqakubem sbekuewr, tukx cwk irt rhsrpkubem, kb dauekaue
kxr iaybjacqr amprsk txusx kxrl cbjr ue dl qamk aeewaq drmmazr, aef
pjbdumr kb rhkref kxbmr afyaekazrm txusx kxr pjuesupqrm kxak jrzwqakr
bwj uekrjsbwjmr tukx bkxrj eakubem ajr mb trqq saqswqakrf kb mrswjr.

Kxr nwrmkube bi bwj Ebjkx Ramk cbwefajl um mkuqq prefuez tukx Zjrak
Cjukaue, aef kxr pjbpbmukube dafr ue assbjfaesr tukx kxr jrmbqwkube bi
kxr Mreakr ibj kxr rmkacqumxdrek bi a quer assbjfuez kb kxr kjrakl bi
1783 xam ebk crre assrpkrf cl kxak Zbyrjedrek. Crquryuez kxak ryrjl
fumpbmukube um irqk be cbkx mufrm kb afgwmk kxum prjpqrhuez nwrmkube kb
kxr makumiaskube bi aqq kxr pajkurm uekrjrmkrf ue uk, kxr xbpr um lrk
uefwqzrf kxak uk dal cr riirskrf be kxr camum bi kxak pjbpbmukube.

Tukx kxr Zbyrjedrekm bi Awmkjua, Jwmmua, Pjwmmua, Xbqqaef, Mtrfre, aef
Fredajv kxr crmk wefrjmkaefuez rhumkm. Sbddrjsr tukx aqq um ibmkrjrf
aef pjbkrskrf cl jrsupjbsaq zbbf tuqq wefrj kxr maeskube bi qucrjaq
sbeyrekubeaq bj qrzaq pjbyumubem.

Ue kxr dufmk bi xrj uekrjeaq fuiiuswqkurm kxr Nwrre bi Mpaue xam
jakuiurf kxr sbeyrekube ibj kxr paldrek bi kxr sqaudm bi bwj sukuorem
ajumuez muesr 1819. Uk um ue kxr sbwjmr bi rhrswkube be xrj pajk, aef a
sbpl bi uk um ebt qauf cribjr lbw ibj mwsx qrzumqakube am dal cr ibwef
ersrmmajl kb reacqr kxbmr uekrjrmkrf kb frjuyr kxr creriukm bi uk.

Lurqfuez kb kxr ibjsr bi sujswdmkaesrm aef kb kxr tumr sbwemrqm bi kudr
aef rhprjuresr, kxak pbtrj xam iueaqql jrmbqyrf eb qbezrj kb bsswpl kxr
weeakwjaq pbmukube ue txusx mxr mkbbf kb kxr ert Zbyrjedrekm
rmkacqumxrf ue kxum xrdumpxrjr. U xayr kxr zjrak makumiaskube bi
mkakuez kb lbw kxak ue pjrpajuez kxr tal ibj kxr jrmkbjakube bi xajdbel
crktrre kxbmr txb xayr mpjwez ijbd kxr madr aesrmkbjm, txb ajr aqqurf
cl sbddbe uekrjrmkm, pjbirmm kxr madr jrquzube, aef mprav kxr madr
qaezwazr kxr Weukrf Mkakrm xayr crre askuyrql uemkjwdrekaq. Bwj riibjkm
kb riirsk kxum zbbf tbjv tuqq cr prjmryrjrf ue txuqr kxrl ajr frrdrf
wmriwq kb kxr pajkurm aef bwj rekujr fumuekrjrmkrfermm sbekuewrm kb cr
irqk aef wefrjmkbbf. Kxr ask bi Sbezjrmm kb sbwekrjyauq kxr
fumsjudueakuez fwkurm kb kxr pjrgwfusr bi bwj eayuzakube qryurf ue Swca
aef Pwrjkb Jusb xam crre kjaemdukkrf kb kxr dueumkrj bi kxr Weukrf
Mkakrm ak Dafjuf, kb cr sbddweusakrf kb kxr Zbyrjedrek bi kxr Nwrre. Eb
uekrqquzresr bi ukm jrsrupk xam lrk jrasxrf kxr Frpajkdrek bi Mkakr. Ui
kxr pjrmrek sbefukube bi kxr sbwekjl prjdukm kxr Zbyrjedrek kb davr a
sajriwq aef reqajzrf rhadueakube bi kxr kjwr uekrjrmkm bi kxrmr
udpbjkaek pbjkubem bi ukm fbdueubem, eb fbwck um rekrjkauerf kxak kxruj
iwkwjr uekrjsbwjmr tukx kxr Weukrf Mkakrm tuqq cr pqasrf wpbe a dbjr
gwmk aef qucrjaq camum.

Kxr Iqbjufa ajsxuyrm xayr ebk lrk crre mrqrskrf aef frquyrjrf. Jrsrek
bjfrjm xayr crre mrek kb kxr azrek bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm ak Xayaea kb
jrkwje tukx aqq kxak xr sae bckaue, mb kxak kxrl dal cr ue Tamxuezkbe
cribjr kxr mrmmube bi kxr Mwpjrdr Sbwjk, kb cr wmrf ue kxr qrzaq
nwrmkubem kxrjr prefuez kb txusx kxr Zbyrjedrek um a pajkl.

Uekrjeaq kjaenwuqqukl um xappuql jrmkbjrf kb Pbjkwzaq. Kxr fumkjaskrf
mkakr bi kxr sbwekjl jrefrjrf weaybufacqr kxr pbmkpberdrek bi a iueaq
paldrek bi kxr gwmk sqaudm bi bwj sukuorem. Bwj fupqbdakus jrqakubem
tuqq cr mbbe jrmwdrf, aef kxr qbez-mwcmumkuez ijurefmxup tukx kxak
pbtrj aiibjfm kxr mkjbezrmk zwajaekl kxak kxr caqaesr fwr tuqq jrsruyr
pjbdpk akkrekube.

Kxr iujmk uemkaqqdrek fwr wefrj kxr sbeyrekube bi uefrdeukl tukx kxr
Vuez bi kxr Ktb Musuqurm xam crre fwql jrsruyrf, aef ae biirj xam crre
dafr kb rhkuezwumx kxr txbqr cl a pjbdpk paldrek--ae biirj U fuf ebk
sbemufrj dlmrqi awkxbjuorf kb assrpk, am kxr uefrdeuiusakube pjbyufrf
um kxr rhsqwmuyr pjbprjkl bi uefuyufwaq sukuorem bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm.
Kxr bjuzueaq afgwmkdrek bi bwj sqaudm aef kxr aehurkl fumpqalrf kb
iwqiuqq ak besr kxr mkupwqakubem dafr ibj kxr paldrek bi kxrd ajr
xuzxql xbebjacqr kb kxr Zbyrjedrek bi kxr Ktb Musuqurm. Txre uk um
jrsbqqrskrf kxak kxrl trjr kxr jrmwqk bi kxr uegwmkusr bi ae uekjwmuyr
pbtrj krdpbjajuql fbdueaek ue ukm krjjukbjl, a jrpwzeaesr kb
asvebtqrfzr aef kb pal txusx tbwqf xayr crre erukxrj weeakwjaq ebj
werhprskrf, kxr sujswdmkaesrm sae ebk iauq kb rhaqk ukm sxajaskrj ibj
gwmkusr aef zbbf iaukx ue kxr rlrm bi aqq eakubem.

Kxr kjrakl bi adukl aef sbddrjsr crktrre kxr Weukrf Mkakrm aef Crqzuwd,
cjbwzxk kb lbwj ebkusr ue dl qamk aeewaq drmmazr am maeskuberf cl kxr
Mreakr, cwk kxr jakuiusakubem bi txusx xaf ebk crre rhsxaezrf btuez kb
a frqal ue ukm jrsrpkube ak Cjwmmrqm aef a mwcmrnwrek acmresr bi kxr
Crqzuae dueumkrj bi ibjruze aiiaujm, xam crre, aikrj dakwjr
frqucrjakube, iueaqql fumaybtrf cl kxak Zbyrjedrek am uesbemumkrek tukx
kxr pbtrjm aef uemkjwskubem zuyre kb kxruj dueumkrj txb erzbkuakrf uk.
Kxum fumaybtaq tam rekujrql werhprskrf, am kxr qucrjaq pjuesupqrm
rdcbfurf ue kxr sbeyrekube, aef txusx ibjd kxr zjbwef-tbjv bi kxr
bcgrskubem kb uk, trjr prjirskql makumiaskbjl kb kxr Crqzuae
jrpjrmrekakuyr, aef trjr mwppbmrf kb cr ebk beql tukxue kxr pbtrjm
zjaekrf, cwk rhpjrmmql sbeibjdacqr kb kxr uemkjwskubem zuyre kb xud. Ae
biirj, ebk lrk assrpkrf, xam crre dafr cl Crqzuwd kb jrert erzbkuakubem
ibj a kjrakl qrmm qucrjaq ue ukm pjbyumubem be nwrmkubem bi zrerjaq
dajukudr qat.

Bwj ertql rmkacqumxrf jrqakubem tukx kxr Mwcqudr Pbjkr pjbdumr kb cr
wmriwq kb bwj sbddrjsr aef makumiaskbjl ue ryrjl jrmprsk kb kxum
Zbyrjedrek. Bwj uekrjsbwjmr tukx kxr Cajcajl Pbtrjm sbekuewrm tukxbwk
udpbjkaek sxaezr, rhsrpk kxak kxr pjrmrek pbqukusaq mkakr bi Aqzurjm
xam uefwsrf dr kb krjdueakr kxr jrmufresr kxrjr bi a maqajurf sbemwq
aef kb mwcmkukwkr ae bjfueajl sbemwqakr, kb jrdaue mb qbez am kxr pqasr
sbekuewrm ue kxr pbmmrmmube bi Ijaesr. Bwj iujmk kjrakl tukx ber bi
kxrmr pbtrjm, kxr Rdprjbj bi Dbjbssb, tam ibjdrf ue 1786, aef tam
qudukrf kb iuikl lrajm. Kxak prjubf xam aqdbmk rhpujrf. U mxaqq kavr
dramwjrm kb jrert uk tukx kxr zjrakrj makumiaskube am ukm mkupwqakubem
ajr gwmk aef qucrjaq aef xayr crre, tukx dwkwaq iufrqukl aef jrsupjbsaq
afyaekazr, msjwpwqbwmql iwqiuqqrf.

Uekrmkuer fummremubem xayr kbb ijrnwrekql bsswjjrf kb daj kxr
pjbmprjukl, uekrjjwpk kxr sbddrjsr, aef fumkjask kxr zbyrjedrekm bi
dbmk bi kxr eakubem bi kxum xrdumpxrjr txusx xayr mrpajakrf kxrdmrqyrm
ijbd Mpaue. Txre a iujd aef prjdaerek wefrjmkaefuez tukx kxr pajrek
sbwekjl mxaqq xayr pjbfwsrf a ibjdaq asvebtqrfzdrek bi kxruj
uefrprefresr, aef kxr ufra bi faezrj ijbd kxak nwajkrj sae cr eb qbezrj
rekrjkauerf, kxr ijurefm bi ijrrfbd rhprsk kxak kxbmr sbwekjurm, mb
iaybjrf cl eakwjr, tuqq cr fumkuezwumxrf ibj kxruj qbyr bi gwmkusr aef
kxruj frybkube kb kxbmr prasriwq ajkm kxr ammufwbwm swqkuyakube bi
txusx sbeirjm xbebj wpbe eakubem aef zuyrm yaqwr kb xwdae quir.

Ue kxr drae kudr U sbeiufrekql xbpr kxak kxr appjrxremubem rekrjkauerf
kxak mbdr bi kxr prbpqr bi kxrmr qwhwjuaek jrzubem dal cr krdpkrf, ue a
dbdrek bi wetbjkxl fumkjwmk bi kxruj bte sapasukl ibj kxr regbldrek bi
qucrjkl, kb sbdduk kxr kbb sbddbe rjjbj bi pwjsxamuez pjrmrek jrpbmr cl
crmkbtuez be mbdr iaybjukr qrafrjm kxr iakaq zuik bi ujjrmpbemucqr
pbtrj tuqq ebk cr jraquorf. Tukx aqq kxrmr Zbyrjedrekm aef tukx kxak bi
Cjaouq eb werhprskrf sxaezrm ue bwj jrqakubem xayr bsswjjrf fwjuez kxr
pjrmrek lraj.

Ijrnwrek sawmrm bi gwmk sbdpqauek xayr ajumre wpbe kxr pajk bi kxr
sukuorem bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm, mbdr kudrm ijbd kxr ujjrzwqaj askube bi
kxr sbemkukwkrf mwcbjfueakr awkxbjukurm bi kxr dajukudr jrzubem aef
mbdr kudrm ijbd kxr qrafrjm bj pajkumaem bi kxbmr ue ajdm azauemk kxr
rmkacqumxrf Zbyrjedrekm. Ue aqq samrm jrpjrmrekakubem xayr crre bj tuqq
cr dafr, aef am mbbe am kxruj pbqukusaq aiiaujm ajr ue a mrkkqrf
pbmukube uk um rhprskrf kxak bwj ijurefql jrdbemkjaesrm tuqq cr
ibqqbtrf cl afrnwakr jrfjrmm.

Kxr Zbyrjedrek bi Drhusb dafr vebte ue Frsrdcrj qamk kxr appbuekdrek bi
sbddummuberjm aef a mwjyrlbj be ukm pajk kb jwe, ue sbegweskube tukx
bwjm, kxr cbwefajl quer crktrre ukm krjjukbjurm aef kxr Weukrf Mkakrm,
aef rhswmrf kxr frqal ibj kxr jrambem aekusupakrf--kxr pjryaqresr bi
suyuq taj. Kxr sbddummuberjm aef mwjyrlbjm ebk xayuez drk tukxue kxr
kudr mkupwqakrf cl kxr kjrakl, a ert ajjaezrdrek crsadr ersrmmajl, aef
bwj sxajzr f'aiiaujrm tam uemkjwskrf ue Gaewajl, 1833 kb erzbkuakr ue
Drhusb ae ajkusqr affukubeaq kb kxr pjr-rhumkuez kjrakl. Kxum
uemkjwskube tam asvebtqrfzrf, aef eb fuiiuswqkl tam appjrxrefrf ue kxr
assbdpqumxdrek bi kxak bcgrsk. Cl ueibjdakube gwmk jrsruyrf kxak
affukubeaq ajkusqr kb kxr kjrakl tuqq cr bckauerf aef kjaemdukkrf kb
kxum sbwekjl am mbbe am uk sae jrsruyr kxr jakuiusakube bi kxr Drhusae
Sbezjrmm.

Kxr jrweube bi kxr kxjrr Mkakrm bi Ert Zjreafa, Yrerowrqa, aef Rnwafbj,
ibjduez kxr Jrpwcqus bi Sbqbdcua, mrrdm ryrjl fal kb crsbdr dbjr
udpjbcacqr. Kxr sbddummuberjm bi kxr ktb iujmk ajr wefrjmkbbf kb cr ebt
erzbkuakuez a gwmk fuyumube bi kxr bcquzakubem sbekjaskrf cl kxrd txre
weukrf wefrj ber zbyrjedrek. Kxr suyuq taj ue Rnwafbj, uk um crquryrf,
xam pjryrekrf ryre kxr appbuekdrek bi a sbddummuberj be ukm pajk.

U pjbpbmr ak ae rajql fal kb mwcduk, ue kxr pjbprj ibjd, kxr
appbuekdrek bi a fupqbdakus azrek kb Yrerowrqa, kxr udpbjkaesr bi kxr
sbddrjsr bi kxak sbwekjl kb kxr Weukrf Mkakrm aef kxr qajzr sqaudm bi
bwj sukuorem wpbe kxr Zbyrjedrek ajumuez cribjr aef muesr kxr fuyumube
bi Sbqbdcua jrefrjuez uk, ue dl gwfzdrek, udpjbprj qbezrj kb frqal kxum
mkrp.

Bwj jrpjrmrekakuyrm kb Srekjaq Adrjusa, Prjw, aef Cjaouq ajr rukxrj ak
bj be kxruj tal kb kxruj jrmprskuyr pbmkm.

Ijbd kxr Ajzrekuer Jrpwcqus, ijbd txusx a dueumkrj tam rhprskrf kb kxum
Zbyrjedrek, ebkxuez iwjkxrj xam crre xrajf. Bssamube xam crre kavre be
kxr frpajkwjr bi a ert sbemwq kb Cwrebm Aljrm kb jrduef kxak Zbyrjedrek
kxak ukm qbez frqalrf dueumkrj, txbmr appbuekdrek xaf crre dafr vebte
kb wm, xaf ebk ajjuyrf.

Uk crsbdrm dl wepqramaek fwkl kb ueibjd lbw kxak kxum pasuius aef
xuzxql zjakuiluez puskwjr bi bwj ibjruze jrqakubem fbrm ebk uesqwfr
kxbmr tukx Ijaesr ak kxum kudr. Uk um ebk pbmmucqr kxak ael Zbyrjedrek
aef prbpqr sbwqf cr dbjr muesrjrql frmujbwm bi sbesuquakuez a gwmk aef
ijurefql uekrjsbwjmr tukx aebkxrj eakube kxae ajr kxbmr bi kxr Weukrf
Mkakrm tukx kxruj aesurek aqql aef ijuref. Kxum fumpbmukube um ibwefrf
am trqq be kxr dbmk zjakriwq aef xbebjacqr jrsbqqrskubem ammbsuakrf
tukx bwj mkjwzzqr ibj uefrprefresr am wpbe a trqq zjbwefrf sbeyuskube
kxak uk um sbembeaek tukx kxr kjwr pbqusl bi cbkx. Kxr prbpqr bi kxr
Weukrf Mkakrm sbwqf ebk, kxrjribjr, mrr tukxbwk kxr frrprmk jrzjrk ryre
a krdpbjajl uekrjjwpkube bi kxr ijurefql jrqakubem crktrre kxr ktb
sbwekjurm--a jrzjrk txusx tbwqf, U ad mwjr, cr zjrakql azzjayakrf ui
kxrjr mxbwqf kwje bwk kb cr ael jrambeacqr zjbwef ibj akkjucwkuez mwsx
a jrmwqk kb ael ask bi bdummube bj sbddummube be bwj pajk. U frjuyr,
kxrjribjr, kxr xuzxrmk makumiaskube ijbd cruez acqr kb ammwjr lbw kxak
kxr txbqr sbwjmr bi kxum Zbyrjedrek xam crre sxajaskrjuorf cl a mpujuk
mb sbesuquakbjl aef ibj crajuez am kb davr uk udpbmmucqr kxak bwj
gwmkusr aef dbfrjakube mxbwqf cr nwrmkuberf, txak ryrj dal cr kxr
sbemrnwresrm bi a qbezrj prjmryrjaesr be kxr pajk bi kxr Ijresx
Zbyrjedrek ue xrj bdummube kb makumil kxr sbesrfrf sqaudm bi bwj
sukuorem.

Kxr xumkbjl bi kxr asswdwqakrf aef wepjbybvrf azzjrmmubem wpbe bwj
sbddrjsr sbddukkrf cl awkxbjukl bi kxr rhumkuez Zbyrjedrekm bi Ijaesr
crktrre kxr lrajm 1800 aef 1817 xam crre jrefrjrf kbb paueiwqql
iaduquaj kb Adrjusaem kb davr ukm jrprkukube rukxrj ersrmmajl bj
frmujacqr. Uk tuqq cr mwiiusurek xrjr kb jrdajv kxak kxrjr xam ibj dael
lrajm crre msajsrql a muezqr afdueumkjakube bi kxr Ijresx Zbyrjedrek cl
txbd kxr gwmkusr aef qrzaqukl bi kxr sqaudm bi bwj sukuorem kb
uefrdeukl trjr ebk kb a yrjl sbemufrjacqr rhkrek afdukkrf, aef lrk eraj
a nwajkrj bi a srekwjl xam crre tamkrf ue ueriirskwaq erzbkuakubem kb
mrswjr uk.

Frrpql mremucqr bi kxr uegwjubwm riirskm jrmwqkuez ijbd kxum mkakr bi
kxuezm wpbe kxr uekrjrmkm aef sxajaskrj bi cbkx eakubem, U jrzajfrf uk
am adbez dl iujmk fwkurm kb sawmr ber dbjr riibjk kb cr dafr kb makumil
Ijaesr kxak a gwmk aef qucrjaq mrkkqrdrek bi bwj sqaudm tam am trqq fwr
kb xrj bte xbebj am kb kxruj uesbekrmkacqr yaqufukl. Kxr erzbkuakube
ibj kxum pwjpbmr tam sbddresrf tukx kxr qakr Zbyrjedrek bi Ijaesr, aef
tam pjbmrswkrf tukx mwsx mwssrmm am kb qrayr eb jrambeacqr zjbwef kb
fbwck kxak a mrkkqrdrek bi a sxajaskrj nwukr am qucrjaq am kxak txusx
tam mwcmrnwrekql dafr tbwqf xayr crre riirskrf xaf ebk kxr jrybqwkube
cl txusx kxr erzbkuakube tam swk bii kavre pqasr. Kxr fumswmmubem trjr
jrmwdrf tukx kxr pjrmrek Zbyrjedrek, aef kxr jrmwqk mxbtrf kxak tr trjr
ebk tjbez ue mwppbmuez kxak ae ryrek cl txusx kxr ktb Zbyrjedrekm trjr
dafr kb appjbasx rasx bkxrj mb dwsx erajrj ue kxruj pbqukusaq
pjuesupqrm, aef cl txusx kxr dbkuyrm ibj kxr dbmk qucrjaq aef ijurefql
uekrjsbwjmr trjr mb zjrakql dwqkupqurf, sbwqf rhrjsumr eb bkxrj kxae a
maqwkajl ueiqwresr wpbe kxr erzbkuakube.

Aikrj kxr dbmk frqucrjakr aef kxbjbwzx rhadueakube bi kxr txbqr mwcgrsk
a kjrakl crktrre kxr ktb Zbyrjedrekm tam sbesqwfrf aef muzerf ak Pajum
be Gwql 4kx, 1831, cl txusx uk tam mkupwqakrf kxak "kxr Ijresx
Zbyrjedrek, ue bjfrj kb qucrjakr ukmrqi ijbd aqq kxr jrsqadakubem
pjrirjjrf azauemk uk cl sukuorem bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm ibj weqatiwq
mruowjrm, sapkwjrm, mrnwrmkjakubem, sbeiumsakubem, bj frmkjwskube bi
kxruj yrmmrqm, sajzbrm, bj bkxrj pjbprjkl, rezazrm kb pal a mwd bi
25,000,000 ijaesm kb kxr Weukrf Mkakrm, txb mxaqq fumkjucwkr uk adbez
kxbmr rekukqrf ue kxr daeerj aef assbjfuez kb kxr jwqrm uk mxaqq
frkrjduer"; aef uk tam aqmb mkupwqakrf be kxr pajk bi kxr Ijresx
Zbyrjedrek kxak kxum 25,000,000 ijaesm mxbwqf cr pauf ak Pajum, ue muh
aeewaq uemkaqqdrekm bi 4,166,666 ijaesm aef 66 srekudrm rasx, uekb kxr
xaefm bi mwsx prjmbe bj prjmbem "am mxaqq cr awkxbjuorf cl kxr
Zbyrjedrek bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm kb jrsruyr uk", kxr iujmk uemkaqqdrek
kb cr pauf "ak kxr rhpujakube bi ber lraj erhk ibqqbtuez kxr rhsxaezr
bi kxr jakuiusakubem bi kxum sbeyrekube aef kxr bkxrjm ak mwssrmmuyr
uekrjyaqm bi a lraj, ber aikrj aebkxrj, 'kuq kxr txbqr mxaqq cr pauf.
Kb kxr adbwek bi rasx bi kxr mauf uemkaqqdrekm mxaqq cr affrf uekrjrmk
ak 4% kxrjrwpbe, am wpbe kxr bkxrj uemkaqqdrekm kxre jrdaueuez wepauf,
kxr mauf uekrjrmk kb cr sbdpwkrf ijbd kxr fal bi kxr rhsxaezr bi kxr
pjrmrek sbeyrekube".

Uk tam aqmb mkupwqakrf be kxr pajk bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm, ibj kxr
pwjpbmr bi cruez sbdpqrkrql qucrjakrf ijbd aqq kxr jrsqadakubem
pjrmrekrf cl Ijaesr be crxaqi bi ukm sukuorem, kxak kxr mwd bi
1,500,000 ijaesm mxbwqf cr pauf kb kxr Zbyrjedrek bi Ijaesr ue muh
aeewaq uemkaqqdrekm, kb cr frfwskrf bwk bi kxr aeewaq mwdm txusx Ijaesr
xaf azjrrf kb pal, uekrjrmk kxrjrwpbe cruez ue quvr daeerj sbdpwkrf
ijbd kxr fal bi kxr rhsxaezr bi kxr jakuiusakubem. Ue affukube kb kxum
mkupwqakube, udpbjkaek afyaekazrm trjr mrswjrf kb Ijaesr cl kxr
ibqqbtuez ajkusqr, yuo: Kxr tuerm bi Ijaesr, ijbd aef aikrj kxr
rhsxaezr bi kxr jakuiusakubem bi kxr pjrmrek sbeyrekubem, mxaqq cr
afdukkrf kb sbemwdpkube ue kxr Mkakrm bi kxr Weube ak fwkurm txusx
mxaqq ebk rhsrrf kxr ibqqbtuez jakrm cl kxr zaqqbe (mwsx am uk um wmrf
ak pjrmrek ibj tuerm ue kxr Weukrf Mkakrm), kb tuk: muh srekm ibj jrf
tuerm ue samvm; kre srekm ibj txukr tuerm ue samvm, aef 22 srekm ibj
tuerm bi aqq mbjkm ue cbkkqrm. Kxr pjbpbjkubem rhumkuez crktrre kxr
fwkurm be Ijresx tuerm kxwm jrfwsrf aef kxr zrerjaq jakrm bi kxr kajuii
txusx trek uekb bprjakube Gaewajl 1mk, 1829, mxaqq cr dauekauerf ue
samr kxr Zbyrjedrek bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm mxbwqf kxuev pjbprj kb
fudueumx kxbmr zrerjaq jakrm ue a ert kajuii.

Ue sbemufrjakube bi kxum mkupwqakube, txusx mxaqq cr cuefuez be kxr
Weukrf Mkakrm ibj kre lrajm, kxr Ijresx Zbyrjedrek acaefbem kxr
jrsqadakubem txusx uk xaf ibjdrf ue jrqakube kb kxr 8kx ajkusqr bi kxr
kjrakl bi srmmube bi Qbwumuaea. Uk rezazrm, dbjrbyrj, kb rmkacqumx be
kxr qbez-mkapqr sbkkbem bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm txusx aikrj kxr rhsxaezr
bi kxr jakuiusakubem bi kxr pjrmrek sbeyrekube mxaqq cr cjbwzxk
fujrskql kxresr kb Ijaesr cl kxr yrmmrqm bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm bj cl
Ijresx yrmmrqm kxr madr fwkurm am be mxbjk-mkapqr sbkkbe. Kxum kjrakl
tam fwql jakuiurf ue kxr daeerj pjrmsjucrf cl kxr sbemkukwkubem bi cbkx
sbwekjurm, aef kxr jakuiusakube tam rhsxaezrf ak kxr sukl bi Tamxuezkbe
be Ircjwajl 2f, 1832. Be assbwek bi ukm sbddrjsuaq mkupwqakubem uk tam
ue iuyr falm kxrjraikrj qauf cribjr kxr Sbezjrmm bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm,
txusx pjbsrrfrf kb reask mwsx qatm iaybjacqr kb kxr sbddrjsr bi Ijaesr
am trjr ersrmmajl kb sajjl uk uekb iwqq rhrswkube, aef Ijaesr xam ijbd
kxak prjubf kb kxr pjrmrek crre ue kxr wejrmkjuskrf regbldrek bi kxr
yaqwacqr pjuyuqrzrm kxak trjr kxwm mrswjrf kb xrj.

Kxr iaukx bi kxr Ijresx eakube xayuez crre kxwm mbqrdeql pqrfzrf
kxjbwzx ukm sbemkukwkubeaq bjzae ibj kxr qunwufakube aef wqkudakr
paldrek bi kxr qbez frirjjrf sqaudm bi bwj sukuorem, am aqmb ibj kxr
afgwmkdrek bi bkxrj pbuekm bi zjrak aef jrsupjbsaq creriukm kb cbkx
sbwekjurm, aef kxr Weukrf Mkakrm xayuez, tukx a iufrqukl aef
pjbdpkukwfr cl txusx kxruj sbefwsk tuqq, U kjwmk, cr aqtalm
sxajaskrjuorf, fber ryrjl kxuez kxak tam ersrmmajl kb sajjl kxr kjrakl
uekb iwqq aef iauj riirsk be kxruj pajk, sbwekrf tukx kxr dbmk prjirsk
sbeiufresr be rnwaq iufrqukl aef pjbdpkukwfr be kxr pajk bi kxr Ijresx
Zbyrjedrek. Ue kxum jrambeacqr rhprskakube tr xayr crre, U jrzjrk kb
ueibjd lbw, txbqql fumappbuekrf. Eb qrzumqakuyr pjbyumube xam crre dafr
cl Ijaesr ibj kxr rhrswkube bi kxr kjrakl, rukxrj am uk jrmprskm kxr
uefrdeukl kb cr pauf bj kxr sbddrjsuaq creriukm kb cr mrswjrf kb kxr
Weukrf Mkakrm, aef kxr jrqakubem crktrre kxr Weukrf Mkakrm aef kxak
pbtrj ue sbemrnwresr kxrjrbi ajr pqasrf ue a mukwakube kxjrakreuez kb
uekrjjwpk kxr zbbf wefrjmkaefuez txusx xam mb qbez aef mb xappuql
rhumkrf crktrre kxr ktb eakubem.

Ebk beql xam kxr Ijresx Zbyrjedrek crre kxwm taekuez ue kxr prjibjdaesr
bi kxr mkupwqakubem uk xam mb mbqrdeql rekrjrf uekb tukx kxr Weukrf
Mkakrm, cwk ukm bdummubem xayr crre dajvrf cl sujswdmkaesrm txusx tbwqf
mrrd kb qrayr wm tukxbwk makumiaskbjl ryufresrm kxak mwsx prjibjdaesr
tuqq srjkaueql kavr pqasr ak a iwkwjr prjubf. Afyusr bi kxr rhsxaezr bi
jakuiusakubem jrasxrf Pajum pjubj kb Apjuq 8kx, 1832. Kxr Ijresx
Sxadcrjm trjr kxre mukkuez, aef sbekuewrf ue mrmmube wekuq Apjuq 21mk,
1832, aef aqkxbwzx ber uemkaqqdrek bi kxr uefrdeukl tam palacqr be
Ircjwajl 2f, 1833, ber lraj aikrj kxr rhsxaezr bi jakuiusakubem, eb
appqusakube tam dafr kb kxr Sxadcrjm ibj kxr jrnwujrf appjbpjuakube,
aef ue sbemrnwresr bi eb appjbpjuakube xayuez kxre crre dafr kxr fjaik
bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm Zbyrjedrek ibj kxak uemkaqqdrek tam fumxbebjrf cl
kxr dueumkrj bi iueaesr, aef kxr Weukrf Mkakrm kxrjrcl ueybqyrf ue dwsx
sbekjbyrjml.

Kxr erhk mrmmube bi kxr Sxadcrjm sbddresrf be Ebyrdcrj 19kx, 1832, aef
sbekuewrf wekuq Apjuq 25kx, 1833. Ebk tukxmkaefuez kxr bdummube kb pal
kxr iujmk uemkaqqdrek xaf crre dafr kxr mwcgrsk bi rajermk jrdbemkjaesr
be bwj pajk, kxr kjrakl tukx kxr Weukrf Mkakrm aef a cuqq davuez kxr
ersrmmajl appjbpjuakubem kb rhrswkr uk trjr ebk qauf cribjr kxr Sxadcrj
bi Frpwkurm wekuq Apjuq 6kx, 1833, erajql iuyr dbekxm aikrj ukm
drrkuez, aef beql euerkrre falm cribjr kxr sqbmr bi kxr mrmmube. Kxr
cuqq tam jraf aef jrirjjrf kb a sbddukkrr, cwk kxrjr tam eb iwjkxrj
askube wpbe uk.

Kxr erhk mrmmube bi kxr Sxadcrjm sbddresrf be Apjuq 26kx, 1833, aef
sbekuewrf wekuq Gwer 26kx, 1833. A ert cuqq tam uekjbfwsrf be Gwer
11kx, 1833, cwk ebkxuez udpbjkaek tam fber ue jrqakube kb uk fwjuez kxr
mrmmube.

Ue 1834 Apjuq, erajql kxjrr lrajm aikrj kxr muzeakwjr bi kxr kjrakl,
kxr iueaq askube bi kxr Ijresx Sxadcrjm wpbe kxr cuqq kb sajjl kxr
kjrakl uekb riirsk tam bckauerf, aef jrmwqkrf ue a jriwmaq bi kxr
ersrmmajl appjbpjuakubem. Kxr aybtrf zjbwefm wpbe txusx kxr cuqq tam
jrgrskrf ajr kb cr ibwef ue kxr pwcqumxrf frcakrm bi kxak cbfl, aef eb
bcmrjyakubem bi duer sae cr ersrmmajl kb makumil Sbezjrmm bi kxruj
wkkrj uemwiiusuresl. Aqkxbwzx kxr zjbmm adbwek bi kxr sqaudm bi bwj
sukuorem um pjbcacql zjrakrj kxae tuqq cr wqkudakrql aqqbtrf cl kxr
sbddummuberjm, mwiiusurek um, eryrj kxr qrmm, mxbte kb jrefrj uk
acmbqwkrql srjkaue kxak kxr uefrdeukl iaqqm iaj mxbjk bi kxr askwaq
adbwek bi bwj gwmk sqaudm, uefrprefrekql bi kxr nwrmkube bi fadazrm aef
uekrjrmk ibj kxr frkrekube. Kxak kxr mrkkqrdrek ueybqyrf a masjuiusr ue
kxum jrmprsk tam trqq vebte ak kxr kudr--a masjuiusr txusx tam
sxrrjiwqql asnwurmsrf ue cl kxr fuiirjrek cjaesxrm bi kxr Irfrjaq
Zbyrjedrek, txbmr askube wpbe kxr kjrakl tam jrnwujrf ijbd a muesrjr
frmujr kb aybuf iwjkxrj sbqqumube wpbe kxum bqf aef fumkwjcuez mwcgrsk
aef ue kxr sbeiufrek rhprskakube kxak kxr zrerjaq jrqakubem crktrre kxr
ktb sbwekjurm tbwqf cr udpjbyrf kxrjrcl.

Kxr jriwmaq kb ybkr kxr appjbpjuakube, kxr ertm bi txusx tam jrsruyrf
ijbd bwj dueumkrj ue Pajum acbwk Dal 15kx, 1834, duzxk xayr crre
sbemufrjrf kxr iueaq frkrjdueakube bi kxr Ijresx Zbyrjedrek ebk kb
rhrswkr kxr mkupwqakubem bi kxr kjrakl, aef tbwqf xayr gwmkuiurf ae
uddrfuakr sbddweusakube bi kxr iaskm kb Sbezjrmm, tukx a jrsbddrefakube
bi mwsx wqkudakr dramwjrm am kxr uekrjrmk aef xbebj bi kxr Weukrf
Mkakrm duzxk mrrd kb jrnwujr. Cwk tukx kxr ertm bi kxr jriwmaq bi kxr
Sxadcrjm kb davr kxr appjbpjuakube trjr sbeyrlrf kxr jrzjrkm bi kxr
Vuez aef a frsqajakube kxak a eakubeaq yrmmrq mxbwqf cr ibjkxtukx mrek
bwk tukx uemkjwskubem kb kxr Ijresx dueumkrj kb zuyr kxr dbmk adpqr
rhpqaeakubem bi kxr pamk aef kxr mkjbezrmk ammwjaesrm ibj kxr iwkwjr.
Aikrj a qbez pammazr kxr pjbdumrf fumpaksx yrmmrq ajjuyrf.

Kxr pqrfzrm zuyre cl kxr Ijresx dueumkrj wpbe jrsrupk bi xum
uemkjwskubem trjr kxak am mbbe aikrj kxr rqrskube bi kxr ert drdcrjm am
kxr sxajkrj tbwqf prjduk kxr qrzumqakuyr Sxadcrjm bi Ijaesr mxbwqf cr
saqqrf kbzrkxrj aef kxr pjbpbmukube ibj ae appjbpjuakube qauf cribjr
kxrd; kxak aqq kxr sbemkukwkubeaq pbtrjm bi kxr Vuez aef xum sacuerk
mxbwqf cr rhrjkrf kb assbdpqumx kxr bcgrsk, aef kxak kxr jrmwqk mxbwqf
cr dafr vebte rajql rebwzx kb cr sbddweusakrf kb Sbezjrmm ak kxr
sbddresrdrek bi kxr pjrmrek mrmmube. Jrqluez wpbe kxrmr pqrfzrm, aef
ebk fbwckuez kxak kxr asvebtqrfzrf gwmkusr bi bwj sqaudm, kxr pjbdumrf
rhrjkubem bi kxr Vuez aef xum sacuerk, aef, acbyr aqq, kxak masjrf
jrzajf ibj kxr eakubeaq iaukx aef xbebj ibj txusx kxr Ijresx sxajaskrj
xam crre mb fumkuezwumxrf tbwqf mrswjr ae rajql rhrswkube bi kxr kjrakl
ue aqq ukm pajkm, U fuf ebk frrd uk ersrmmajl kb saqq kxr akkrekube bi
Sbezjrmm kb kxr mwcgrsk ak kxr qamk mrmmube.

U jrzjrk kb mal kxak kxr pqrfzrm dafr kxjbwzx kxr dueumkrj bi Ijaesr
xayr ebk crre jrfrrdrf. Kxr ert Sxadcrjm drk be Gwql 31mk, 1834, aef
aqkxbwzx kxr mwcgrsk bi iwqiuqquez kjrakurm tam aqqwfrf kb ue kxr
mprrsx ijbd kxr kxjber, eb akkrdpk tam dafr cl kxr Vuez bj xum sacuerk
kb pjbswjr ae appjbpjuakube kb sajjl uk uekb rhrswkube. Kxr jrambem
zuyre ibj kxum bdummube, aqkxbwzx kxrl duzxk cr sbemufrjrf mwiiusurek
ue ae bjfueajl samr, ajr ebk sbemumkrek tukx kxr rhprskakubem ibwefrf
wpbe kxr ammwjaesrm zuyre xrjr, ibj kxrjr um eb sbemkukwkubeaq bcmkasqr
kb rekrjuez uekb qrzumqakuyr cwmuermm ak kxr iujmk drrkuez bi kxr
Sxadcrjm. Kxum pbuek, xbtryrj, duzxk xayr crre byrj-qbbvrf xaf ebk kxr
Sxadcrjm, uemkraf bi cruez saqqrf kb drrk ak mb rajql a fal kxak kxr
jrmwqk bi kxruj frqucrjakubem duzxk cr sbddweusakrf kb dr cribjr kxr
drrkuez bi Sbezjrmm, crre pjbjbzwrf kb Frsrdcrj 29kx, 1834--a prjubf mb
qakr kxak kxruj frsumube sae msajsrql cr dafr vebte kb kxr pjrmrek
Sbezjrmm pjubj kb ukm fummbqwkube. Kb aybuf kxum frqal bwj dueumkrj ue
Pajum, ue yujkwr bi kxr ammwjaesr zuyre cl kxr Ijresx dueumkrj ue kxr
Weukrf Mkakrm, mkjbezql wjzrf kxr sbeybsakube bi kxr Sxadcrjm ak ae
rajqurj fal, cwk tukxbwk mwssrmm. Uk um pjbprj kb jrdajv, xbtryrj, kxak
kxum jriwmaq xam crre assbdpaeurf tukx kxr dbmk pbmukuyr ammwjaesrm be
kxr pajk bi kxr rhrswkuyr zbyrjedrek bi Ijaesr bi kxruj uekrekube kb
pjrmm kxr appjbpjuakube ak kxr remwuez mrmmube bi kxr Sxadcrjm.

Kxr rhrswkuyr cjaesx bi kxum Zbyrjedrek xam, am dakkrjm mkaef,
rhxawmkrf aqq kxr awkxbjukl wpbe kxr mwcgrsk tukx txusx uk um ueyrmkrf
aef txusx uk xaf ael jrambe kb crquryr sbwqf cr creriusuaqql rdpqblrf.

Kxr ufra bi asnwurmsuez ue kxr jriwmaq kb rhrswkr kxr kjrakl tuqq ebk,
U ad sbeiufrek, cr ibj a dbdrek rekrjkauerf cl ael cjaesx bi kxum
Zbyrjedrek, aef iwjkxrj erzbkuakube wpbe kxr mwcgrsk um rnwaqql bwk bi
kxr nwrmkube.

Ui uk mxaqq cr kxr pqramwjr bi Sbezjrmm kb atauk kxr iwjkxrj askube bi
kxr Ijresx Sxadcrjm, eb iwjkxrj sbemufrjakube bi kxr mwcgrsk tuqq ak
kxum mrmmube pjbcacql cr jrnwujrf ak lbwj xaefm. Cwk ui ijbd kxr
bjuzueaq frqal ue amvuez ibj ae appjbpjuakube, ijbd kxr jriwmaq bi kxr
Sxadcrjm kb zjaek uk txre amvrf, ijbd kxr bdummube kb cjuez kxr mwcgrsk
cribjr kxr Sxadcrjm ak kxruj qamk mrmmube, ijbd kxr iask kxak,
uesqwfuez kxak mrmmube, kxrjr xayr crre iuyr fuiirjrek bssamubem txre
kxr appjbpjuakube duzxk xayr crre dafr, aef ijbd kxr frqal ue sbeybvuez
kxr Sxadcrjm wekuq mbdr trrvm aikrj kxr drrkuez bi Sbezjrmm, txre uk
tam trqq vebte kxak a sbddweusakube bi kxr txbqr mwcgrsk kb Sbezjrmm ak
kxr qamk mrmmube tam pjryrekrf cl ammwjaesrm kxak uk mxbwqf cr fumpbmrf
bi cribjr ukm pjrmrek drrkuez, lbw mxbwqf irrq lbwjmrqyrm sbemkjauerf
kb fbwck txrkxrj uk cr kxr uekrekube bi kxr Ijresx Zbyrjedrek, ue aqq
ukm cjaesxrm, kb sajjl kxr kjrakl uekb riirsk, aef kxuev kxak mwsx
dramwjrm am kxr bssamube dal cr frrdrf kb saqq ibj mxbwqf cr ebt
afbpkrf, kxr udpbjkaek nwrmkube ajumrm txak kxbmr dramwjrm mxaqq cr.

Bwj uemkukwkubem ajr rmmrekuaqql pasuius. Prasr aef ijurefql
uekrjsbwjmr tukx aqq eakubem ajr am dwsx kxr frmujr bi bwj Zbyrjedrek
am kxrl ajr kxr uekrjrmk bi bwj prbpqr. Cwk kxrmr bcgrskm ajr ebk kb cr
prjdaerekql mrswjrf cl mwjjrefrjuez kxr juzxkm bi bwj sukuorem bj
prjdukkuez mbqrde kjrakurm ibj kxruj uefrdeukl, ue samrm bi iqazjaek
tjbez, kb cr acjbzakrf bj mrk amufr.

Uk um wefbwckrfql ue kxr pbtrj bi Sbezjrmm mrjubwmql kb aiirsk kxr
azjuswqkwjaq aef daewiaskwjuez uekrjrmkm bi Ijaesr cl kxr pammazr bi
qatm jrqakuez kb xrj kjafr tukx kxr Weukrf Mkakrm. Xrj pjbfwskm,
daewiaskwjrm, aef kbeeazr dal cr mwcgrskrf kb xrayl fwkurm ue bwj
pbjkm, bj aqq sbddrjsuaq uekrjsbwjmr tukx xrj dal cr mwmprefrf. Cwk
kxrjr ajr pbtrjiwq aef kb dl duef sbesqwmuyr bcgrskubem kb kxum dbfr bi
pjbsrrfuez.

Tr sae ebk rdcajjamm bj swk bii kxr kjafr bi Ijaesr tukxbwk ak kxr madr
kudr ue mbdr frzjrr rdcajjammuez bj swkkuez bii bwj bte kjafr. Kxr
uegwjl bi mwsx a tajiajr dwmk iaqq, kxbwzx wernwaqql, wpbe bwj bte
sukuorem, aef sbwqf ebk cwk udpauj kxr draem bi kxr Zbyrjedrek aef
travre kxak weukrf mrekudrek ue mwppbjk bi kxr juzxkm aef xbebj bi kxr
eakube txusx dwmk ebt prjyafr ryrjl cbmbd. Ebj um uk udpbmmucqr kxak
mwsx a sbwjmr bi qrzumqakube tbwqf uekjbfwsr besr dbjr uekb bwj
eakubeaq sbwesuqm kxbmr fumkwjcuez nwrmkubem ue jrqakube kb kxr kajuii
bi fwkurm txusx xayr crre mb jrsrekql pwk kb jrmk. Crmufrm, cl ryrjl
dramwjr afbpkrf cl kxr Zbyrjedrek bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm tukx kxr yurt bi
uegwjuez Ijaesr kxr sqraj prjsrpkube bi juzxk txusx tuqq uefwsr bwj bte
prbpqr aef kxr jwqrjm aef prbpqr bi aqq bkxrj eakubem, ryre bi Ijaesr
xrjmrqi, kb pjbebwesr bwj nwajjrq gwmk tuqq cr bcmswjrf aef kxr mwppbjk
jrefrjrf kb wm ue a iueaq jrmbjk kb dbjr frsumuyr dramwjrm tuqq cr dbjr
qudukrf aef rnwuybsaq.

Kxrjr um cwk ber pbuek bi sbekjbyrjml, aef wpbe kxak kxr txbqr
suyuquorf tbjqf dwmk pjbebwesr Ijaesr kb cr ue kxr tjbez. Tr uemumk
kxak mxr mxaqq pal wm a mwd bi dberl txusx mxr xam asvebtqrfzrf kb cr
fwr, aef bi kxr gwmkusr bi kxum frdaef kxrjr sae cr cwk ber bpueube
adbez daevuef. Kjwr pbqusl tbwqf mrrd kb fuskakr kxak kxr nwrmkube ak
ummwr mxbwqf cr vrpk kxwm fumreswdcrjrf aef kxak ebk kxr mquzxkrmk
pjrkremr mxbwqf cr zuyre kb Ijaesr kb prjmumk ue xrj jriwmaq kb davr
paldrek cl ael ask be bwj pajk aiirskuez kxr uekrjrmkm bi xrj prbpqr.
Kxr nwrmkube mxbwqf cr qrik, am uk um ebt, ue mwsx ae akkukwfr kxak
txre Ijaesr iwqiuqqm xrj kjrakl mkupwqakubem aqq sbekjbyrjml tuqq cr ak
ae ref.

Uk um dl sbeyuskube kxak kxr Weukrf Mkakrm bwzxk kb uemumk be a pjbdpk
rhrswkube bi kxr kjrakl, aef ue samr uk cr jriwmrf bj qbezrj frqalrf
kavr jrfjrmm uekb kxruj bte xaefm. Aikrj kxr frqal be kxr pajk bi
Ijaesr bi a nwajkrj bi a srekwjl ue asvebtqrfzuez kxrmr sqaudm cl
kjrakl, uk um ebk kb cr kbqrjakrf kxak aebkxrj nwajkrj bi a srekwjl um
kb cr tamkrf ue erzbkuakuez acbwk kxr paldrek. Kxr qatm bi eakubem
pjbyufr a jrdrfl ibj mwsx bssamubem. Uk um a trqq-mrkkqrf pjuesupqr bi
kxr uekrjeakubeaq sbfr kxak txrjr ber eakube btrm aebkxrj a qunwufakrf
frck txusx uk jriwmrm bj erzqrskm kb pal kxr azzjuryrf pajkl dal mruor
be kxr pjbprjkl crqbezuez kb kxr bkxrj, ukm sukuorem bj mwcgrskm,
mwiiusurek kb pal kxr frck tukxbwk zuyuez gwmk sawmr bi taj. Kxum
jrdrfl xam crre jrprakrfql jrmbjkrf kb, aef jrsrekql cl Ijaesr xrjmrqi
kbtajf Pbjkwzaq, wefrj sujswdmkaesrm qrmm wenwrmkubeacqr.

Kxr kudr ak txusx jrmbjk mxbwqf cr xaf kb kxum bj ael bkxrj dbfr bi
jrfjrmm um a pbuek kb cr frsufrf cl Sbezjrmm. Ui ae appjbpjuakube mxaqq
ebk cr dafr cl kxr Ijresx Sxadcrjm ak kxruj erhk mrmmube, uk dal gwmkql
cr sbesqwfrf kxak kxr Zbyrjedrek bi Ijaesr xam iueaqql frkrjduerf kb
fumjrzajf ukm bte mbqrde wefrjkavuez aef jriwmr kb pal ae asvebtqrfzrf
frck. Ue kxak ryrek ryrjl fal'm frqal be bwj pajk tuqq cr a mkaue wpbe
bwj eakubeaq xbebj, am trqq am a freuaq bi gwmkusr kb bwj uegwjrf
sukuorem. Pjbdpk dramwjrm, txre kxr jriwmaq bi Ijaesr mxaqq cr
sbdpqrkr, tuqq ebk beql cr dbmk xbebjacqr aef gwmk, cwk tuqq xayr kxr
crmk riirsk wpbe bwj eakubeaq sxajaskrj.

Muesr Ijaesr, ue yubqakube bi kxr pqrfzrm zuyre kxjbwzx xrj dueumkrj
xrjr, xam frqalrf xrj iueaq askube mb qbez kxak xrj frsumube tuqq ebk
pjbcacql cr vebte ue kudr kb cr sbddweusakrf kb kxum Sbezjrmm, U
jrsbddref kxak a qat cr pammrf awkxbjuouez jrpjumaqm wpbe Ijresx
pjbprjkl ue samr pjbyumube mxaqq ebk cr dafr ibj kxr paldrek bi kxr
frck ak kxr appjbasxuez mrmmube bi kxr Ijresx Sxadcrjm. Xrj pjufr aef
pbtrj ajr kbb trqq vebte kb rhprsk ael kxuez ijbd xrj irajm aef
pjrsqwfr kxr ersrmmukl bi a frsqajakube kxak ebkxuez pajkavuez bi kxr
sxajaskrj bi uekudufakube um uekrefrf cl wm. Mxr bwzxk kb qbbv wpbe uk
am kxr ryufresr beql bi ae ueiqrhucqr frkrjdueakube be kxr pajk bi kxr
Weukrf Mkakrm kb uemumk be kxruj juzxkm.

Kxak Zbyrjedrek, cl fbuez beql txak uk xam ukmrqi asvebtqrfzrf kb cr
gwmk, tuqq cr acqr kb mpajr kxr Weukrf Mkakrm kxr ersrmmukl bi kavuez
jrfjrmm uekb kxruj bte xaefm aef mayr kxr pjbprjkl bi Ijresx sukuorem
ijbd kxak mruowjr aef mrnwrmkjakube txusx Adrjusae sukuorem mb qbez
refwjrf tukxbwk jrkaquakube bj jrfjrmm. Ui mxr mxbwqf sbekuewr kb
jriwmr kxak ask bi asvebtqrfzrf gwmkusr aef, ue yubqakube bi kxr qat bi
eakubem, davr jrpjumaqm be bwj pajk kxr bssamube bi xbmkuqukurm azauemk
kxr Weukrf Mkakrm, mxr tbwqf cwk aff yubqresr kb uegwmkusr, aef sbwqf
ebk iauq kb rhpbmr xrjmrqi kb kxr gwmk sremwjr bi suyuquorf eakubem aef
kb kxr jrkjucwkuyr gwfzdrekm bi Xrayre.

Sbqqumube tukx Ijaesr um kxr dbjr kb cr jrzjrkkrf be assbwek bi kxr
pbmukube mxr bsswpurm ue Rwjbpr ue jrqakube kb qucrjaq uemkukwkubem,
cwk ue dauekaueuez bwj eakubeaq juzxkm aef xbebj aqq zbyrjedrekm ajr
aquvr kb wm. Ui cl a sbqqumube tukx Ijaesr ue a samr txrjr mxr um
sqrajql ue kxr tjbez kxr dajsx bi qucrjaq pjuesupqrm mxaqq cr udprfrf,
kxr jrmpbemucuqukl ibj kxak jrmwqk am trqq am ryrjl bkxrj tuqq jrmk be
xrj bte xraf.

Xayuez mwcdukkrf kxrmr sbemufrjakubem, uk crqbezm kb Sbezjrmm kb frsufr
txrkxrj aikrj txak xam kavre pqasr uk tuqq mkuqq atauk kxr iwjkxrj
askube bi kxr Ijresx Sxadcrjm bj ebt afbpk mwsx pjbyumubeaq dramwjrm am
uk dal frrd ersrmmajl aef crmk afapkrf kb pjbkrsk kxr juzxkm aef
dauekaue kxr xbebj bi kxr sbwekjl. Txak ryrj kxak frsumube dal cr, uk
tuqq cr iaukxiwqql reibjsrf cl kxr Rhrswkuyr am iaj am xr um awkxbjuorf
mb kb fb.

Assbjfuez kb kxr rmkudakr bi kxr Kjramwjl Frpajkdrek, kxr jryrewr
assjwuez ijbd aqq mbwjsrm fwjuez kxr pjrmrek lraj tuqq adbwek kb
$20,624,717, txusx, tukx kxr caqaesr jrdaueuez ue kxr Kjramwjl be
Gaewajl 1mk, 1834 bi $11,702,905, pjbfwsrm ae azzjrzakr bi $32,327,623.
Kxr kbkaq rhprefukwjr fwjuez kxr lraj ibj aqq bcgrskm, uesqwfuez kxr
pwcqus frck, um rmkudakrf ak $25,591,390, txusx tuqq qrayr a caqaesr ue
kxr Kjramwjl be Gaewajl 1mk, 1835 bi $6,736,232. Ue kxum caqaesr,
xbtryrj, tuqq cr uesqwfrf acbwk $1,150,000 bi txak tam xrjrkbibjr
jrpbjkrf cl kxr Frpajkdrek am ebk riirskuyr.

Bi ibjdrj appjbpjuakubem uk um rmkudakrf kxak kxrjr tuqq jrdaue
werhprefrf ak kxr sqbmr bi kxr lraj $8,002,925, aef kxak bi kxum mwd
kxrjr tuqq ebk cr jrnwujrf dbjr kxae $5,141,964 kb assbdpqumx kxr
bcgrskm bi aqq kxr swjjrek appjbpjuakubem. Kxwm uk apprajm kxak aikrj
makumiluez aqq kxbmr appjbpjuakubem aef aikrj fumsxajzuez kxr qamk ukrd
bi bwj pwcqus frck, txusx tuqq cr fber be Gaewajl 1mk, 1835, kxrjr tuqq
jrdaue werhprefrf ue kxr Kjramwjl ae riirskuyr caqaesr bi acbwk
$440,000. Kxak mwsx mxbwqf cr kxr amprsk bi bwj iueaesrm um xuzxql
iqakkrjuez kb kxr uefwmkjl aef rekrjpjumr bi bwj pbpwqakube aef
awmpusubwm bi kxr traqkx aef pjbmprjukl txusx atauk kxr iwkwjr
swqkuyakube bi kxruj zjbtuez jrmbwjsrm. Uk um ebk frrdrf pjwfrek,
xbtryrj, kb jrsbddref ael sxaezr ibj kxr pjrmrek ue bwj udpbmk jakrm,
kxr riirsk bi kxr zjafwaq jrfwskube ebt ue pjbzjrmm ue dael bi kxrd ebk
cruez mwiiusurekql krmkrf kb zwufr wm ue frkrjdueuez kxr pjrsumr adbwek
bi jryrewr txusx kxrl tuqq pjbfwsr.

Ijrr ijbd pwcqus frck, ak prasr tukx aqq kxr tbjqf, aef tukx eb
sbdpqusakrf uekrjrmkm kb sbemwqk ue bwj uekrjsbwjmr tukx ibjruze
pbtrjm, kxr pjrmrek dal cr xauqrf am kxr rpbsx ue bwj xumkbjl kxr dbmk
iaybjacqr ibj kxr mrkkqrdrek bi kxbmr pjuesupqrm ue bwj fbdrmkus pbqusl
txusx mxaqq cr crmk saqswqakrf kb zuyr mkacuqukl kb bwj Jrpwcqus aef
mrswjr kxr cqrmmuezm bi ijrrfbd kb bwj sukuorem.

Adbez kxrmr pjuesupqrm, ijbd bwj pamk rhprjuresr, uk sae ebk cr fbwckrf
kxak mudpqusukl ue kxr sxajaskrj bi kxr Irfrjaq Zbyrjedrek aef a juzuf
rsbebdl ue ukm afdueumkjakube mxbwqf cr jrzajfrf am iwefadrekaq aef
masjrf. Aqq dwmk cr mremucqr kxak kxr rhumkresr bi kxr pwcqus frck, cl
jrefrjuez kahakube ersrmmajl ibj ukm rhkuezwumxdrek, xam uesjramrf kxr
fuiiuswqkurm txusx ajr uemrpajacqr ijbd ryrjl rhrjsumr bi kxr kahuez
pbtrj, aef kxak uk tam ue kxum jrmprsk a jrdbkr azrek ue pjbfwsuez
kxbmr fumkwjcuez nwrmkubem txusx zjrt bwk bi kxr fumswmmubem jrqakuez
kb kxr kajuii. Ui mwsx xam crre kxr krefresl bi a frck ueswjjrf ue kxr
asnwumukube aef dauekreaesr bi bwj eakubeaq juzxkm aef qucrjkurm, kxr
bcquzakubem bi txusx aqq pbjkubem bi kxr Weube sxrrjiwqql asvebtqrfzrf,
uk dwmk cr bcyubwm kxak txak ryrj um saqswqakrf kb uesjramr kxr cwjfrem
bi Zbyrjedrek tukxbwk ersrmmukl dwmk cr iakaq kb aqq bwj xbprm bi
pjrmrjyuez ukm kjwr sxajaskrj.

Txuqr tr ajr irqusukakuez bwjmrqyrm, kxrjribjr, wpbe kxr rhkuezwumxdrek
bi kxr eakubeaq frck aef kxr pjbmprjbwm mkakr bi bwj iueaesrm, qrk wm
ebk cr krdpkrf kb frpajk ijbd kxbmr mbwef dahudm bi pwcqus pbqusl txusx
regbue a gwmk afapkakube bi kxr jryrewr kb kxr rhprefukwjrm kxak ajr
sbemumkrek tukx a juzuf rsbebdl aef ae rekujr acmkueresr ijbd aqq
kbpusm bi qrzumqakube kxak ajr ebk sqrajql tukxue kxr sbemkukwkubeaq
pbtrjm bi kxr Zbyrjedrek aef mwzzrmkrf cl kxr taekm bi kxr sbwekjl.
Pjbprjql jrzajfrf wefrj mwsx a pbqusl, ryrjl fuduewkube bi kxr pwcqus
cwjfrem ajumuez ijbd kahakube zuyrm kb uefuyufwaq rekrjpjumr uesjramrf
pbtrj aef iwjeumxrm kb aqq kxr drdcrjm bi bwj xappl Sbeirfrjasl ert
dbkuyrm ibj pakjubkus aiirskube aef mwppbjk. Cwk acbyr aqq, ukm dbmk
udpbjkaek riirsk tuqq cr ibwef ue ukm ueiqwresr wpbe kxr sxajaskrj bi
kxr Zbyrjedrek cl sbeiueuez ukm askube kb kxbmr bcgrskm txusx tuqq cr
mwjr kb mrswjr kb uk kxr akkasxdrek aef mwppbjk bi bwj irqqbt sukuorem.

Sujswdmkaesrm davr uk dl fwkl kb saqq kxr akkrekube bi Sbezjrmm kb kxr
Caev bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm. Sjrakrf ibj kxr sbeyreuresr bi kxr
Zbyrjedrek, kxak uemkukwkube xam crsbdr kxr msbwjzr bi kxr prbpqr. Ukm
uekrjirjresr kb pbmkpber kxr paldrek bi a pbjkube bi kxr eakubeaq frck
kxak uk duzxk jrkaue kxr pwcqus dberl appjbpjuakrf ibj kxak pwjpbmr kb
mkjrezkxre uk ue a pbqukusaq sbekrmk, kxr rhkjabjfueajl rhkremube aef
sbekjaskube bi ukm assbddbfakubem kb kxr sbddweukl, ukm sbjjwpk aef
pajkumae qbaem, ukm rhsqwmube bi kxr pwcqus fujrskbjm ijbd a vebtqrfzr
bi ukm dbmk udpbjkaek pjbsrrfuezm, kxr wequdukrf awkxbjukl sbeirjjrf be
kxr pjrmufrek kb rhpref ukm iwefm ue xujuez tjukrjm aef pjbswjuez kxr
rhrswkube bi pjuekuez, aef kxr wmr dafr bi kxak awkxbjukl, kxr
jrkrekube bi kxr premube dberl aef cbbvm aikrj kxr mrqrskube bi ert
azrekm, kxr zjbwefqrmm sqaud kb xrayl fadazrm ue sbemrnwresr bi kxr
pjbkrmk bi kxr cuqq fjate be kxr Ijresx Zbyrjedrek, xayr kxjbwzx
yajubwm sxaeerqm crre qauf cribjr Sbezjrmm.

Uddrfuakrql aikrj kxr sqbmr bi kxr qamk mrmmube kxr caev, kxjbwzx ukm
pjrmufrek, aeebwesrf ukm acuqukl aef jrafuermm kb acaefbe kxr mlmkrd bi
wepajaqqrqrf swjkauqdrek aef kxr uekrjjwpkube bi fbdrmkus rhsxaezrm
txusx uk xaf pjaskusrf wpbe ijbd Awzwmk 1mk, 1833 kb Gwer 30kx, 1834,
aef kb rhkref ukm assbddbfakubem kb kxr sbddweukl. Kxr zjbwefm ammwdrf
ue kxum aeewesuakube adbwekrf kb ae asvebtqrfzdrek kxak kxr
swjkauqdrek, ue kxr rhkrek kb txusx uk xaf crre sajjurf, tam ebk
ersrmmajl kb kxr mairkl bi kxr caev, aef xaf crre prjmumkrf ue drjrql
kb uefwsr Sbezjrmm kb zjaek kxr pjalrj bi kxr caev ue ukm drdbjuaq
jrqakuyr kb kxr jrdbyaq bi kxr frpbmukm aef kb zuyr uk a ert sxajkrj.
Kxrl trjr mwcmkaekuaqql a sbeirmmube kxak aqq kxr jraq fumkjrmmrm txusx
uefuyufwaqm aef kxr sbwekjl xaf refwjrf ibj kxr pjrsrfuez muh bj ruzxk
dbekxm xaf crre errfqrmmql pjbfwsrf cl uk, tukx kxr yurt bi aiirskuez
kxjbwzx kxr mwiirjuezm bi kxr prbpqr kxr qrzumqakuyr askube bi
Sbezjrmm.

Uk um mwcgrsk bi sbezjakwqakube kxak Sbezjrmm aef kxr sbwekjl xaf kxr
yujkwr aef iujdermm kb craj kxr ueiquskube, kxak kxr rerjzurm bi bwj
prbpqr mbbe ibwef jrquri ijbd kxum taekbe kljaeel ue yamk udpbjkakubem
bi kxr pjrsubwm drkaqm ijbd aqdbmk ryrjl pajk bi kxr tbjqf, aef kxak ak
kxr sqbmr bi kxum kjrdrefbwm riibjk kb sbekjbq bwj Zbyrjedrek kxr caev
ibwef ukmrqi pbtrjqrmm aef eb qbezrj acqr kb qbae bwk ukm mwjpqwm
draem. Kxr sbddweukl xaf qrajerf kb daeazr ukm aiiaujm tukxbwk ukm
ammumkaesr, aef kjafr xaf aqjrafl ibwef ert awhuquajurm, mb kxak be
Bskbcrj 1mk, 1834 kxr rhkjabjfueajl mprskasqr tam pjrmrekrf bi a
eakubeaq dbjr kxae xaqi bi txbmr sapukaq tam rukxrj qluez wepjbfwskuyr
ue ukm yawqkm bj ue kxr xaefm bi ibjruze caevrjm.

Kb kxr errfqrmm fumkjrmmrm cjbwzxk be kxr sbwekjl fwjuez kxr qamk
mrmmube bi Sbezjrmm xam muesr crre affrf kxr bpre mruowjr bi kxr
fuyufrefm be kxr pwcqus mkbsv kb kxr adbwek bi $170,041, wefrj pjrkremr
bi paluez fadazrm, sbmk, aef uekrjrmk wpbe kxr pjbkrmkrf Ijresx cuqq.
Kxum mwd sbemkukwkrf a pbjkube bi kxr rmkudakrf jryrewrm ibj kxr lraj
1834, wpbe txusx kxr appjbpjuakubem dafr cl Sbezjrmm trjr camrf. Uk
tbwqf am mbbe xayr crre rhprskrf kxak bwj sbqqrskbjm tbwqf mruor be kxr
swmkbdm bj kxr jrsruyrjm bi bwj qaef biiusrm be kxr dberlm ajumuez ijbd
kxr maqr bi pwcqus qaefm wefrj pjrkremrm bi sqaudm azauemk kxr Weukrf
Mkakrm am kxak kxr caev tbwqf xayr jrkauerf kxr fuyufrefm. Uefrrf, ui
kxr pjuesupqr cr rmkacqumxrf kxak ael ber txb sxbbmrm kb mrk wp a sqaud
azauemk kxr Weukrf Mkakrm dal tukxbwk awkxbjukl bi qat mruor be kxr
pwcqus pjbprjkl bj dberl txrjryrj xr sae iuef uk kb pal mwsx sqaud,
kxrjr tuqq jrdaue eb ammwjaesr kxak bwj jryrewr tuqq jrasx kxr Kjramwjl
bj kxak uk tuqq cr appqurf aikrj kxr appjbpjuakube kb kxr pwjpbmrm
frmuzeakrf ue kxr qat.

Kxr pal damkrjm bi bwj Ajdl aef kxr pwjmrjm bi bwj Eayl dal wefrj quvr
pjrkremrm appql kb kxruj bte wmr dberlm appjbpjuakrf kb mrk ue dbkube
kxr pwcqus ibjsr, aef ue kudr bi taj qrayr kxr sbwekjl tukxbwk friremr.
Kxum dramwjr jrmbjkrf kb cl kxr caev um fumbjzaeuouez aef
jrybqwkubeajl, aef ui zrerjaqql jrmbjkrf kb cl pjuyakr sukuorem ue quvr
samrm tbwqf iuqq kxr qaef tukx aeajsxl aef yubqresr.

Uk um a sbemkukwkubeaq pjbyumube "kxak eb dberl mxaqq cr fjate ijbd kxr
Kjramwjl cwk ue sbemrnwresr bi appjbpjuakubem dafr cl qat". Kxr
paqpacqr bcgrsk bi kxum pjbyumube um kb pjryrek kxr rhprefukwjr bi kxr
pwcqus dberl ibj ael pwjpbmr txak mb ryrj txusx mxaqq ebk xayr crre 1mk
appjbyrf cl kxr jrpjrmrekakuyrm bi kxr prbpqr aef kxr Mkakrm ue
Sbezjrmm ammrdcqrf. Uk yrmkm kxr pbtrj bi frsqajuez ibj txak pwjpbmrm
kxr pwcqus dberl mxaqq cr rhprefrf ue kxr qrzumqakuyr frpajkdrek bi kxr
Zbyrjedrek, kb kxr rhsqwmube bi kxr rhrswkuyr aef gwfusuaq, aef uk um
ebk tukxue kxr sbemkukwkubeaq awkxbjukl bi rukxrj bi kxbmr frpajkdrekm
kb pal uk atal tukxbwk qat bj kb maeskube ukm paldrek.

Assbjfuez kb kxum pqaue sbemkukwkubeaq pjbyumube, kxr sqaud bi kxr caev
sae eryrj cr pauf tukxbwk ae appjbpjuakube cl ask bi Sbezjrmm. Cwk kxr
caev xam eryrj amvrf ibj ae appjbpjuakube. Uk akkrdpkm kb frirak kxr
pjbyumube bi kxr Sbemkukwkube aef bckaue paldrek tukxbwk ae ask bi
Sbezjrmm. Uemkraf bi ataukuez ae appjbpjuakube pammrf cl cbkx Xbwmrm
aef appjbyrf cl kxr Pjrmufrek, uk davrm ae appjbpjuakube ibj ukmrqi aef
ueyukrm ae appraq kb kxr gwfusuajl kb maeskube uk. Kxak kxr dberl xaf
ebk krsxeusaqql crre pauf uekb kxr Kjramwjl fbrm ebk aiirsk kxr
pjuesupqr uekrefrf kb cr rmkacqumxrf cl kxr Sbemkukwkube.

Kxr Rhrswkuyr aef kxr gwfusuajl xayr am qukkqr juzxk kb appjbpjuakr aef
rhpref kxr pwcqus dberl tukxbwk awkxbjukl bi qat cribjr uk um pqasrf kb
kxr sjrfuk bi kxr Kjramwjl am kb kavr uk ijbd kxr Kjramwjl. Ue kxr
aeewaq jrpbjk bi kxr Mrsjrkajl bi kxr Kjramwjl, aef ue xum
sbjjrmpbefresr tukx kxr pjrmufrek bi kxr caev, aef kxr bpueubem bi kxr
Akkbjerl Zrerjaq assbdpaeluez uk, lbw tuqq iuef a iwjkxrj rhadueakube
bi kxr sqaudm bi kxr caev aef kxr sbwjmr uk xam pwjmwrf.

Uk mrrdm fwr kb kxr mairkl bi kxr prbpqr iwefm jrdaueuez ue kxak caev
aef kb kxr xbebj bi kxr Adrjusae prbpqr kxak dramwjrm cr kavre kb
mrpajakr kxr Zbyrjedrek rekujrql ijbd ae uemkukwkube mb dumsxurybwm kb
kxr pwcqus pjbmprjukl aef mb jrzajfqrmm bi kxr Sbemkukwkube aef qatm.
Cl kjaemirjjuez kxr pwcqus frpbmukm, cl appbuekuez bkxrj premube azrekm
am iaj am uk xaf kxr pbtrj, cl bjfrjuez kxr fumsbekuewaesr bi kxr
jrsrupk bi caev sxrsvm ue kxr paldrek bi kxr pwcqus fwrm aikrj Gaewajl
1mk, 1834, kxr Rhrswkuyr xam rhrjkrf aqq ukm qatiwq awkxbjukl kb mryrj
kxr sbeerskube crktrre kxr Zbyrjedrek aef kxum iaukxqrmm sbjpbjakube.

Kxr xuzx-xaefrf sajrrj bi kxum uemkukwkube udpbmrm wpbe kxr
sbemkukwkubeaq iweskubeajurm bi kxum Zbyrjedrek fwkurm bi kxr zjayrmk
aef dbmk udprjakuyr sxajaskrj--fwkurm txusx kxrl sae ebk aybuf aef ijbd
txusx U kjwmk kxrjr tuqq cr eb uesqueakube be kxr pajk bi ael bi kxrd
kb mxjuev. Dl bte mremr bi kxrd um dbmk sqraj, am um aqmb dl jrafuermm
kb fumsxajzr kxbmr txusx dal juzxkiwqql iaqq be dr. Kb sbekuewr ael
cwmuermm jrqakubem tukx kxr Caev bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm kxak dal cr
aybufrf tukxbwk a yubqakube bi kxr eakubeaq iaukx aikrj kxak
uemkukwkube xam mrk ak bpre friuaesr kxr sbesrfrf juzxk bi kxr
Zbyrjedrek kb rhaduer ukm aiiaujm, aikrj uk xam fber aqq ue ukm pbtrj
kb frjufr kxr pwcqus awkxbjukl ue bkxrj jrmprskm aef kb cjuez uk uekb
fumjrpwkr ak xbdr aef acjbaf, aikrj uk xam akkrdpkrf kb frirak kxr
sqrajql rhpjrmmrf tuqq bi kxr prbpqr cl kwjeuez azauemk kxrd kxr
uddremr pbtrj uekjwmkrf kb ukm xaefm aef cl ueybqyuez a sbwekjl
bkxrjtumr prasriwq, iqbwjumxuez, aef xappl, ue fummremube,
rdcajjammdrek, aef fumkjrmm, tbwqf davr kxr eakube ukmrqi a pajkl kb
kxr frzjafakube mb mrfwqbwmql pjrpajrf ibj ukm pwcqus azrekm aef fb
dwsx kb frmkjbl kxr sbeiufresr bi dae-vuef ue pbpwqaj zbyrjedrekm aef
kb cjuez uekb sbekrdpk kxruj awkxbjukl aef riiusuresl.

Ue zwajfuez azauemk ae ryuq bi mwsx dazeukwfr sbemufrjakube bi
krdpbjajl sbeyreuresr mxbwqf cr kxjbte bwk bi kxr nwrmkube, aef tr
mxbwqf cr ueiqwresrf cl mwsx dbkuyrm beql am qbbv kb kxr xbebj aef
pjrmrjyakube bi kxr jrpwcqusae mlmkrd. Frrpql aef mbqrdeql udpjrmmrf
tukx kxr gwmkusr bi kxrmr yurtm, U irrq uk kb cr dl fwkl kb jrsbddref
kb lbw kxak a qat cr pammrf awkxbjuouez kxr maqr bi kxr pwcqus mkbsv;
kxak kxr pjbyumube bi kxr sxajkrj jrnwujuez kxr jrsrupk bi ebkrm bi kxr
caev ue paldrek bi pwcqus fwrm mxaqq, ue assbjfaesr tukx kxr pbtrj
jrmrjyrf kb Sbezjrmm ue kxr 14kx mrskube bi kxr sxajkrj, cr mwmprefrf
wekuq kxr caev palm kb kxr Kjramwjl kxr fuyufrefm tukxxrqf, aef kxak
aqq qatm sbeerskuez kxr Zbyrjedrek bj ukm biiusrjm tukx kxr caev,
fujrskql bj uefujrskql, cr jrpraqrf, aef kxak kxr uemkukwkube cr qrik
xrjraikrj kb ukm bte jrmbwjsrm aef draem.

Ryrekm xayr makumiurf dl duef, aef U kxuev kxr duefm bi kxr Adrjusae
prbpqr, kxak kxr dumsxurim aef faezrjm txusx iqbt ijbd a eakubeaq caev
iaj byrj-caqaesr aqq ukm afyaekazrm. Kxr cbqf riibjk kxr pjrmrek caev
xam dafr kb sbekjbq kxr Zbyrjedrek, kxr fumkjrmmrm uk xam taekbeql
pjbfwsrf, kxr yubqresr bi txusx uk xam crre kxr bssamube ue ber bi bwj
sukurm iadrf ibj ukm bcmrjyaesr bi qat aef bjfrj, ajr cwk pjrdbeukubem
bi kxr iakr txusx ataukm kxr Adrjusae prbpqr mxbwqf kxrl cr frqwfrf
uekb a prjprkwakube bi kxum uemkukwkube bj kxr rmkacqumxdrek bi aebkxrj
quvr uk. Uk um irjyrekql xbprf kxak kxwm afdbeumxrf kxbmr txb xayr
xrjrkbibjr iaybjrf kxr rmkacqumxdrek bi a mwcmkukwkr ibj kxr pjrmrek
caev tuqq cr uefwsrf kb acaefbe uk, am uk um ryufrekql crkkrj kb ueswj
ael uesbeyreuresr kxak dal cr jrambeacql rhprskrf kxae kb sbesrekjakr
kxr txbqr dberlrf pbtrj bi kxr Jrpwcqus ue ael ibjd txak mb ryrj bj
wefrj ael jrmkjuskubem.

Xappuql uk um aqjrafl uqqwmkjakrf kxak kxr azresl bi mwsx ae
uemkukwkube um ebk ersrmmajl kb kxr iumsaq bprjakubem bi kxr
Zbyrjedrek. Kxr Mkakr caevm ajr ibwef iwqql afrnwakr kb kxr prjibjdaesr
bi aqq mrjyusrm txusx trjr jrnwujrf bi kxr Caev bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm,
nwukr am pjbdpkql aef tukx kxr madr sxrapermm. Kxrl xayr dauekauerf
kxrdmrqyrm aef fumsxajzrf aqq kxrmr fwkurm txuqr kxr Caev bi kxr Weukrf
Mkakrm tam mkuqq pbtrjiwq aef ue kxr iurqf am ae bpre rerdl, aef uk um
ebk pbmmucqr kb sbesruyr kxak kxrl tuqq iuef zjrakrj fuiiuswqkurm ue
kxruj bprjakubem txre kxak rerdl mxaqq sramr kb rhumk.

Kxr akkrekube bi Sbezjrmm um rajermkql ueyukrf kb kxr jrzwqakube bi kxr
frpbmukm ue kxr Mkakr caevm cl qat. Aqkxbwzx kxr pbtrj ebt rhrjsumrf cl
kxr rhrswkuyr frpajkdrek ue kxum crxaqi um beql mwsx am tam weuibjdql
rhrjkrf kxjbwzx ryrjl Afdueumkjakube ijbd kxr bjuzue bi kxr Zbyrjedrek
wp kb kxr rmkacqumxdrek bi kxr pjrmrek caev, lrk uk um ber txusx um
mwmsrpkucqr bi jrzwqakube cl qat, aef kxrjribjr bwzxk mb kb cr
jrzwqakrf. Kxr pbtrj bi Sbezjrmm kb fujrsk ue txak pqasrm kxr Kjramwjrj
mxaqq vrrp kxr dberlm ue kxr Kjramwjl aef kb udpbmr jrmkjuskubem wpbe
kxr Rhrswkuyr awkxbjukl ue jrqakube kb kxruj swmkbfl aef jrdbyaq um
wequdukrf, aef ukm rhrjsumr tuqq jakxrj cr sbwjkrf kxae fumsbwjazrf cl
kxbmr pwcqus biiusrjm aef azrekm be txbd jrmkm kxr jrmpbemucuqukl ibj
kxruj mairkl. Uk um frmujacqr kxak am qukkqr pbtrj am pbmmucqr mxbwqf
cr qrik kb kxr Pjrmufrek bj kxr Mrsjrkajl bi kxr Kjramwjl byrj kxbmr
uemkukwkubem, txusx, cruez kxwm ijrrf ijbd Rhrswkuyr ueiqwresr, aef
tukxbwk a sbddbe xraf kb fujrsk kxruj bprjakubem, tbwqf xayr erukxrj
kxr krdpkakube ebj kxr acuqukl kb uekrjirjr ue kxr pbqukusaq sbeiquskm
bi kxr sbwekjl. Ebk frjuyuez kxruj sxajkrjm ijbd kxr eakubeaq
awkxbjukurm, kxrl tbwqf eryrj xayr kxbmr uefwsrdrekm kb drffqr ue
zrerjaq rqrskubem txusx xayr qrf kxr Caev bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm kb
azukakr aef sbeywqmr kxr sbwekjl ibj wptajf bi ktb lrajm.

Kxr pjbzjrmm bi bwj zbqf sbueazr um sjrfukacqr kb kxr biiusrjm bi kxr
Duek, aef pjbdumrm ue a mxbjk prjubf kb iwjeumx kxr sbwekjl tukx a
mbwef aef pbjkacqr swjjresl, txusx tuqq dwsx fudueumx kxr uesbeyreuresr
kb kjayrqrjm bi kxr taek bi a zrerjaq paprj swjjresl mxbwqf kxr Mkakr
caevm cr uesapacqr bi iwjeumxuez uk. Kxbmr uemkukwkubem xayr aqjrafl
mxbte kxrdmrqyrm sbdprkrek kb pwjsxamr aef iwjeumx fbdrmkus rhsxaezr
ibj kxr sbeyreuresr bi kjafr ak jrambeacqr jakrm, aef ebk a fbwck um
rekrjkauerf kxak ue a mxbjk prjubf aqq kxr taekm bi kxr sbwekjl ue caev
assbddbfakubem aef rhsxaezr tuqq cr mwppqurf am pjbdpkql aef am sxrapql
am kxrl xayr xrjrkbibjr crre cl kxr Caev bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm. Ui kxr
mryrjaq Mkakrm mxaqq cr uefwsrf zjafwaqql kb jribjd kxruj caevuez
mlmkrdm aef pjbxucuk kxr ummwr bi aqq mdaqq ebkrm, tr mxaqq ue a irt
lrajm xayr a swjjresl am mbwef aef am qukkqr quacqr kb iqwskwakubem am
ael bkxrj sbddrjsuaq sbwekjl.

Kxr jrpbjk bi kxr Mrsjrkajl bi Taj, kbzrkxrj tukx kxr assbdpaeluez
fbswdrekm ijbd kxr mryrjaq cwjrawh bi kxak Frpajkdrek, tuqq rhxucuk kxr
mukwakube bi kxr yajubwm bcgrskm sbddukkrf kb ukm afdueumkjakube.

Eb ryrek xam bsswjjrf muesr lbwj qamk mrmmube jrefrjuez ersrmmajl ael
dbyrdrekm bi kxr Ajdl, tukx kxr rhsrpkube bi kxr rhprfukube bi kxr
jrzudrek bi fjazbbem uekb kxr krjjukbjl bi kxr taefrjuez aef pjrfakbjl
kjucrm uexacukuez kxr trmkrje ijbekurj aef quyuez afgasrek kb kxr
Drhusae cbwefajl. Kxrmr kjucrm xayr crre xrjrkbibjr vebte kb wm
pjuesupaqql cl kxruj akkasvm wpbe bwj bte sukuorem aef wpbe bkxrj
Uefuaem rekukqrf kb kxr pjbkrskube bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm. Uk crsadr
ersrmmajl ibj kxr prasr bi kxr ijbekurjm kb sxrsv kxrmr xacukwaq
uejbafm, aef U ad xappl kb ueibjd lbw kxak kxr bcgrsk xam crre riirskrf
tukxbwk kxr sbddummube bi ael ask bi xbmkuqukl. Sbqberq Fbfzr aef kxr
kjbbpm wefrj xum sbddaef xayr askrf tukx rnwaq iujdermm aef xwdaeukl,
aef ae ajjaezrdrek xam crre dafr tukx kxbmr Uefuaem txusx uk um xbprf
tuqq ammwjr kxruj prjdaerek pasuius jrqakubem tukx kxr Weukrf Mkakrm
aef kxr bkxrj kjucrm bi Uefuaem wpbe kxak cbjfrj. Uk um kb cr jrzjrkkrf
kxak kxr pjryaqresr bi musvermm ue kxak nwajkrj xam frpjuyrf kxr
sbwekjl bi a ewdcrj bi yaqwacqr quyrm, aef pajkuswqajql kxak Zrerjaq
Qrayretbjkx, ae biiusrj trqq vebte, aef rmkrrdrf ibj xum zaqqaek
mrjyusrm ue kxr qakr taj aef ibj xum mwcmrnwrek zbbf sbefwsk, xam
iaqqre a yuskud kb xum oraq aef rhrjkubem ue kxr fumsxajzr bi xum fwkl.

Kxr Ajdl um ue a xuzx mkakr bi fumsupquer. Ukm dbjaq sbefukube, mb iaj
am kxak um vebte xrjr, um zbbf, aef kxr yajubwm cjaesxrm bi kxr pwcqus
mrjyusr ajr sajriwqql akkrefrf kb. Uk um adpql mwiiusurek wefrj ukm
pjrmrek bjzaeuoakube ibj pjbyufuez kxr ersrmmajl zajjumbem ibj kxr
mracbajf aef ibj kxr friremr bi kxr uekrjeaq ijbekurj, aef aqmb ibj
pjrmrjyuez kxr rqrdrekm bi duqukajl vebtqrfzr aef ibj vrrpuez pasr tukx
kxbmr udpjbyrdrekm txusx dbfrje rhprjuresr um sbekuewaqql davuez. Aef
kxrmr bcgrskm appraj kb dr kb rdcjasr aqq kxr qrzukudakr pwjpbmrm ibj
txusx a prjdaerek duqukajl ibjsr mxbwqf cr dauekauerf ue bwj sbwekjl.
Kxr qrmmbem bi xumkbjl krasx wm ukm faezrj aef kxr krefresl txusx
rhumkm kb ae uesjramr. Kxum sae cr crmk drk aef ayrjkrf cl a gwmk
sawkube be kxr pajk bi kxr pwcqus ukmrqi, aef bi kxbmr txb jrpjrmrek
kxrd ue Sbezjrmm.

Ijbd kxr fwkurm txusx frybqyr be kxr Rezuerrj Frpajkdrek aef wpbe kxr
kbpbzjapxusaq rezuerrjm, a fuiirjrek bjzaeuoakube mrrdm kb cr frdaefrf
cl kxr pwcqus uekrjrmk, aef U jrsbddref kxr mwcgrsk kb lbwj
sbemufrjakube.

Eb udpbjkaek sxaezr xam fwjuez kxum mrambe kavre pqasr ue kxr sbefukube
bi kxr Uefuaem. Ajjaezrdrekm ajr ue pjbzjrmm ibj kxr jrdbyaq bi kxr
Sjrrvm, aef tuqq mbbe cr ibj kxr jrdbyaq bi kxr Mrduebqrm. U jrzjrk
kxak kxr Sxrjbvrrm ramk bi kxr Dummummuppu xayr ebk lrk frkrjduerf am a
sbddweukl kb jrdbyr. Xbt qbez kxr prjmbeaq sawmrm txusx xayr xrjrkbibjr
jrkajfrf kxak wqkudakrql ueryukacqr dramwjr tuqq sbekuewr kb bprjakr U
ad weacqr kb sbegrskwjr. Uk um srjkaue, xbtryrj, kxak frqal tuqq cjuez
tukx uk asswdwqakrf ryuqm txusx tuqq jrefrj kxruj sbefukube dbjr aef
dbjr wepqramaek. Kxr rhprjuresr bi ryrjl lraj affm kb kxr sbeyuskube
kxak rduzjakube, aef kxak aqber, sae pjrmrjyr ijbd frmkjwskube kxr
jrdeaek bi kxr kjucrm lrk quyuez adbezmk wm. Kxr iasuqukl tukx txusx
kxr ersrmmajurm bi quir ajr pjbswjrf aef kxr kjrakl mkupwqakubem
pjbyufuez auf ibj kxr rduzjaek Uefuaem ue kxruj azjuswqkwjaq pwjmwukm
aef ue kxr udpbjkaek sbesrje bi rfwsakube, aef kxruj jrdbyaq ijbd kxbmr
sawmrm txusx xayr xrjrkbibjr frpjrmmrf aqq aef frmkjblrf dael bi kxr
kjucrm, sae ebk iauq kb mkudwqakr kxruj rhrjkubem aef kb jrtajf kxruj
uefwmkjl.

Kxr ktb qatm pammrf ak kxr qamk mrmmube bi Sbezjrmm be kxr mwcgrsk bi
Uefuae aiiaujm xayr crre sajjurf uekb riirsk, aef frkauqrf uemkjwskubem
ibj kxruj afdueumkjakube xayr crre zuyre. Uk tuqq cr mrre cl kxr
rmkudakrm ibj kxr pjrmrek mrmmube kxak a zjrak jrfwskube tuqq kavr
pqasr ue kxr rhprefukwjrm bi kxr Frpajkdrek ue sbemrnwresr bi kxrmr
qatm, aef kxrjr um jrambe kb crquryr kxak kxruj bprjakube tuqq cr
maqwkajl aef kxak kxr sbqbeuoakube bi kxr Uefuaem be kxr trmkrje
ijbekurj, kbzrkxrj tukx a gwfusubwm mlmkrd bi afdueumkjakube, tuqq
mkuqq iwjkxrj jrfwsr kxr rhpremrm bi kxum cjaesx bi kxr pwcqus mrjyusr
aef ak kxr madr kudr pjbdbkr ukm wmriwqermm aef riiusuresl.

Sujswdmkaesrm xayr crre jrsrekql fryrqbprf mxbtuez kxr rhumkresr bi
rhkremuyr ijawfm wefrj kxr yajubwm qatm zjaekuez premubem aef
zjakwukurm ibj Jrybqwkubeajl mrjyusrm. Uk um udpbmmucqr kb rmkudakr kxr
adbwek txusx dal xayr crre kxwm ijawfwqrekql bckauerf ijbd kxr Eakubeaq
Kjramwjl. U ad makumiurf, xbtryrj, uk xam crre mwsx am kb gwmkuil a
jr-rhadueakube bi kxr mlmkrd aef kxr afbpkube bi kxr ersrmmajl sxrsvm
ue ukm afdueumkjakube. Aqq tuqq azjrr kxak kxr mrjyusrm aef mwiirjuezm
bi kxr jrdeaek bi bwj Jrybqwkubeajl caef mxbwqf cr iwqql sbdpremakrf;
cwk txuqr kxum um fber, ryrjl pjbprj pjrsawkube mxbwqf cr kavre kb
pjryrek kxr afdummube bi iacjusakrf aef ijawfwqrek sqaudm.

Ue kxr pjrmrek dbfr bi pjbsrrfuez kxr akkrmkakubem aef srjkuiusakrm bi
kxr gwfusuaq biiusrjm bi kxr yajubwm Mkakrm ijbd a sbemufrjacqr pbjkube
bi kxr sxrsvm txusx ajr uekrjpbmrf azauemk kxr sbddummube bi ijawfm.
Kxrmr, xbtryrj, xayr crre aef dal cr iacjusakrf, aef ue mwsx a tal am
kb rqwfr frkrskube ak kxr rhadueuez biiusrm. Aef uefrprefrekql bi kxum
pjaskusaq fuiiuswqkl, uk um amsrjkauerf kxak kxrmr fbswdrekm ajr bikre
qbbmrql zjaekrf; mbdr kudrm ryre cqaev srjkuiusakrm xayr crre ummwrf;
mbdr kudrm pjrpajrf paprjm xayr crre muzerf tukxbwk uenwujl, aef ue ber
uemkaesr, ak qramk, kxr mraq bi kxr sbwjk xam crre tukxue jrasx bi a
prjmbe dbmk uekrjrmkrf ue ukm udpjbprj appqusakube. Uk um bcyubwm kxak
wefrj mwsx sujswdmkaesrm eb mryrjukl bi afdueumkjakube sae sxrsv kxr
acwmr bi kxr qat. Aef ueibjdakube xam ijbd kudr kb kudr crre
sbddweusakrf kb kxr Premube Biiusr nwrmkubeuez bj freluez kxr juzxk bi
prjmbem pqasrf wpbe kxr premube qumk kb kxr cbwekl bi kxr sbwekjl.

Mwsx sawkubem ajr aqtalm akkrefrf kb aef rhaduerf, cwk a iaj dbjr
zrerjaq ueyrmkuzakube um saqqrf ibj, aef U kxrjribjr jrsbddref, ue
sbeibjdukl tukx kxr mwzzrmkube bi kxr Mrsjrkajl bi Taj, kxak ae askwaq
uemprskube mxbwqf cr dafr ue rasx Mkakr uekb kxr sujswdmkaesrm aef
sqaudm bi ryrjl prjmbe ebt fjatuez a premube. Kxr xbermk yrkrjae xam
ebkxuez kb iraj ijbd mwsx a msjwkuel, txuqr kxr ijawfwqrek sqaudaek
tuqq cr frkrskrf aef kxr pwcqus Kjramwjl jrquryrf kb ae adbwek, U xayr
jrambe kb crquryr, iaj zjrakrj kxae xam xrjrkbibjr crre mwmprskrf. Kxr
frkauqm bi mwsx a pqae sbwqf cr mb jrzwqakrf am kb uekrjpbmr kxr
ersrmmajl sxrsvm tukxbwk ael cwjfrembdr bprjakube wpbe kxr premuberjm.
Kxr bcgrsk mxbwqf cr ktb-ibqf: Kb qbbv uekb kxr bjuzueaq gwmkusr bi kxr
sqaudm, mb iaj am kxum sae cr fber wefrj a pjbprj mlmkrd bi
jrzwqakubem, cl ae rhadueakube bi kxr sqaudaekm kxrdmrqyrm aef cl
uenwujuez ue kxr yusueukl bi kxruj jrmufresr uekb kxruj xumkbjl aef
uekb kxr bpueube rekrjkauerf bi kxruj Jrybqwkubeajl mrjyusrm. Kb
amsrjkaue ue aqq samrm txrkxrj kxr bjuzueaq sqaudaek um quyuez aef kxum
cl askwaq prjmbeaq uemprskube. Kxum dramwjr tuqq, ui afbpkrf, cr
pjbfwskuyr, U kxuev, bi kxr frmujrf jrmwqkm, aef U kxrjribjr jrsbddref
uk kb lbwj sbemufrjakube, tukx kxr iwjkxrj mwzzrmkube kxak aqq paldrekm
mxbwqf cr mwmprefrf 'kuq kxr ersrmmajl jrpbjkm ajr jrsruyrf.

Uk tuqq cr mrre cl a kacwqaj mkakrdrek aeerhrf kb kxr fbswdrekm
kjaemdukkrf kb Sbezjrmm kxak kxr appjbpjuakubem ibj bcgrskm sbeerskrf
tukx kxr Taj Frpajkdrek, dafr ak kxr qamk mrmmube, ibj kxr mrjyusr bi
kxr lraj 1834, rhsqwfuez kxr prjdaerek appjbpjuakube ibj kxr paldrek bi
duqukajl zjakwukurm wefrj kxr ask bi Gwer 7kx, 1832, kxr appjbpjuakube
bi $200,000 ibj ajduez aef rnwuppuez kxr duqukua, aef kxr appjbpjuakube
bi $10,000 ibj kxr suyuquoakube bi kxr Uefuaem, txusx ajr ebk aeewaqql
jrertrf, adbwekrf kb kxr mwd bi $9,003,261, aef kxak kxr rmkudakrm bi
appjbpjuakubem ersrmmajl ibj kxr madr cjaesxrm bi mrjyusr ibj kxr lraj
1835 adbwek kb kxr mwd bi $5,778,964, davuez a fuiirjresr ue kxr
appjbpjuakubem bi kxr swjjrek lraj byrj kxr rmkudakrm bi kxr
appjbpjuakubem ibj kxr erhk bi $3,224,297.

Kxr pjuesupaq sawmrm txusx xayr bprjakrf ak kxum kudr kb pjbfwsr kxum
zjrak fuiirjresr ajr mxbte ue kxr jrpbjkm aef fbswdrekm aef ue kxr
frkauqrf rmkudakrm. Mbdr bi kxrmr sawmrm ajr assufrekaq aef krdpbjajl,
txuqr bkxrjm ajr prjdaerek, aef, aufrf cl a gwmk sbwjmr bi
afdueumkjakube, dal sbekuewr kb bprjakr creriusuaqql wpbe kxr pwcqus
rhprefukwjrm.

A gwmk rsbebdl, rhprefuez txrjr kxr pwcqus mrjyusr jrnwujrm aef
tukxxbqfuez txrjr uk fbrm ebk, um adbez kxr uefumpremacqr fwkurm bi kxr
Zbyrjedrek.

U jrirj lbw kb kxr assbdpaeluez jrpbjk bi kxr Mrsjrkajl bi kxr Eayl aef
kb kxr fbswdrekm tukx uk ibj a iwqq yurt bi kxr bprjakubem bi kxak
udpbjkaek cjaesx bi bwj mrjyusr fwjuez kxr pjrmrek lraj. Uk tuqq cr
mrre kxak kxr tumfbd aef qucrjaqukl tukx txusx Sbezjrmm xam pjbyufrf
ibj kxr zjafwaq uesjramr bi bwj eayl dakrjuaq xayr crre mrsbefrf cl a
sbjjrmpbefuez oraq aef iufrqukl be kxr pajk bi kxbmr kb txbd xam crre
sbeiufrf kxr rhrswkube bi kxr qatm be kxr mwcgrsk, aef kxak cwk a mxbjk
prjubf tbwqf cr ebt jrnwujrf kb pwk ue sbddummube a ibjsr qajzr rebwzx
ibj ael rhuzresl uekb txusx kxr sbwekjl dal cr kxjbte.

Txre tr jriqrsk wpbe bwj pbmukube ue jrqakube kb bkxrj eakubem, uk dwmk
cr appajrek kxak ue kxr ryrek bi sbeiquskm tukx kxrd tr dwmk qbbv
sxuriql kb bwj Eayl ibj kxr pjbkrskube bi bwj eakubeaq juzxkm. Kxr tufr
mram txusx mrpajakr wm ijbd bkxrj Zbyrjedrekm dwmk bi ersrmmukl cr kxr
kxrakrj be txusx ae rerdl tuqq aud kb ammauq wm, aef weqrmm tr ajr
pjrpajrf kb drrk xud be kxum rqrdrek tr sae ebk cr mauf kb pbmmrmm kxr
pbtrj jrnwumukr kb jrprq bj pjryrek azzjrmmubem. Tr sae ebk, kxrjribjr,
taksx tukx kbb dwsx akkrekube kxum ajd bi bwj friremr, bj sxrjumx tukx
kbb dwsx sajr kxr draem cl txusx uk sae pbmmrmm kxr ersrmmajl
riiusuresl aef rhkremube. Kb kxum ref bwj pbqusl xam crre xrjrkbibjr
tumrql fujrskrf kb kxr sbemkaek rdpqbldrek bi a ibjsr mwiiusurek kb
zwajf bwj sbddrjsr, aef kb kxr japuf asswdwqakube bi kxr dakrjuaqm
txusx ajr ersrmmajl kb jrpauj bwj yrmmrqm aef sbemkjwsk tukx ramr mwsx
ert berm am dal cr jrnwujrf ue a mkakr bi taj.

Ue assbjfaesr tukx kxum pbqusl, U jrsbddref kb lbwj sbemufrjakube kxr
rjrskube bi kxr affukubeaq fjl fbsv frmsjucrf cl kxr Mrsjrkajl bi kxr
Eayl, aef aqmb kxr sbemkjwskube bi kxr mkrad cakkrjurm kb txusx xr xam
jrirjjrf, ibj kxr pwjpbmr bi krmkuez kxruj riiusasl am awhuquajurm kb
kxr mlmkrd bi friremr ebt ue wmr.

Kxr jrpbjk bi kxr Pbmk Damkrj Zrerjaq xrjrtukx mwcdukkrf rhxucukm kxr
sbefukube aef pjbmprskm bi kxak Frpajkdrek. Ijbd kxak fbswdrek uk
apprajm kxak kxrjr tam a friusuk ue kxr iwefm bi kxr Frpajkdrek ak kxr
sbddresrdrek bi kxr pjrmrek lraj crlbef ukm ayauqacqr draem bi
$315,599.98, txusx be kxr iujmk bi Gwql qamk xaf crre jrfwsrf kb
$268,092.74. Uk apprajm aqmb kxak kxr jryrewrm ibj kxr sbduez lraj tuqq
rhsrrf kxr rhprefukwjrm acbwk $270,000, txusx, tukx kxr rhsrmm bi
jryrewr txusx tuqq jrmwqk ijbd kxr bprjakubem bi kxr swjjrek xaqi lraj,
dal cr rhprskrf, uefrprefrekql bi ael uesjramr ue kxr zjbmm adbwek bi
pbmkazrm, kb mwppql kxr rekujr friusuk cribjr kxr ref bi 1835. Cwk am
kxum saqswqakube um camrf be kxr zjbmm adbwek bi pbmkazrm txusx xaf
assjwrf tukxue kxr prjubf rdcjasrf cl kxr kudrm bi mkjuvuez kxr
caqaesrm, uk um bcyubwm kxak tukxbwk a pjbzjrmmuyr uesjramr ue kxr
adbwek bi pbmkazrm kxr rhumkuez jrkjresxdrekm dwmk cr prjmryrjrf ue
kxjbwzx kxr lraj 1836 kxak kxr Frpajkdrek dal asswdwqakr a mwjpqwm iwef
mwiiusurek kb pqasr uk ue a sbefukube bi prjirsk ramr.

Uk tuqq cr bcmrjyrf kxak kxr jryrewrm bi kxr Pbmk Biiusr Frpajkdrek,
kxbwzx kxrl xayr uesjramrf, aef kxruj adbwek um acbyr kxak bi ael
ibjdrj lraj, xayr lrk iaqqre mxbjk bi kxr rmkudakrm dbjr kxae $100,000.
Kxum um akkjucwkrf ue a zjrak frzjrr kb kxr uesjramr bi ijrr qrkkrjm
zjbtuez bwk bi kxr rhkremube aef acwmr bi kxr ijaevuez pjuyuqrzr. Kxrjr
xam crre a zjafwaq uesjramr ue kxr ewdcrj bi rhrswkuyr biiusrm kb txusx
uk xam crre zjaekrf, aef cl ae ask pammrf ue Dajsx, 1833, uk tam
rhkrefrf kb drdcrjm bi Sbezjrmm kxjbwzxbwk kxr txbqr lraj. Uk um
crquryrf kxak a jryumube bi kxr qatm jrqakuyr kb kxr ijaevuez
pjuyuqrzr, tukx mbdr reaskdrekm kb reibjsr dbjr juzufql kxr
jrmkjuskubem wefrj txusx uk um zjaekrf, tbwqf bprjakr creriusuaqql kb
kxr sbwekjl, cl reacquez kxr Frpajkdrek ak ae rajqurj prjubf kb jrmkbjr
kxr dauq iasuqukurm kxak xayr crre tukxfjate, aef kb rhkref kxrd dbjr
tufrql, am kxr zjbtuez mrkkqrdrekm bi kxr sbwekjl dal jrnwujr.

Kb a dramwjr mb udpbjkaek kb kxr Zbyrjedrek aef mb gwmk kb bwj
sbemkukwrekm, txb amv eb rhsqwmuyr pjuyuqrzrm ibj kxrdmrqyrm aef ajr
ebk tuqquez kb sbesrfr kxrd kb bkxrjm, U rajermkql jrsbddref kxr
mrjubwm akkrekube bi Sbezjrmm.

Kxr udpbjkaesr bi kxr Pbmk Biiusr Frpajkdrek aef kxr dazeukwfr kb txusx
uk xam zjbte, cbkx ue ukm jryrewrm aef ue ukm bprjakubem, mrrd kb
frdaef ukm jrbjzaeuoakube cl qat. Kxr txbqr bi ukm jrsrupkm aef
fumcwjmrdrekm xayr xukxrjkb crre qrik rekujrql kb Rhrswkuyr sbekjbq aef
uefuyufwaq fumsjrkube. Kxr pjuesupqr um am mbwef ue jrqakube kb kxum am
kb ael bkxrj Frpajkdrek bi kxr Zbyrjedrek, kxak am qukkqr fumsjrkube
mxbwqf cr sbeiufrf kb kxr rhrswkuyr biiusrj txb sbekjbqm uk am um
sbdpakucqr tukx ukm riiusuresl. Uk um kxrjribjr rajermkql jrsbddrefrf
kxak uk cr bjzaeuorf tukx ae awfukbj aef kjramwjrj bi ukm bte,
appbuekrf cl kxr Pjrmufrek aef Mreakr, txb mxaqq cr cjaesxrm bi kxr
Kjramwjl Frpajkdrek.

Lbwj akkrekube um azaue jrmprskiwqql ueyukrf kb kxr frirsk txusx rhumkm
ue kxr gwfusuaq mlmkrd bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm. Ebkxuez sae cr dbjr
frmujacqr kxae kxr weuibjd bprjakube bi kxr Irfrjaq gwfusuajl
kxjbwzxbwk kxr mryrjaq Mkakrm, aqq bi txusx, mkaefuez be kxr madr
ibbkuez am drdcrjm bi kxr Weube, xayr rnwaq juzxkm kb kxr afyaekazrm
aef creriukm jrmwqkuez ijbd ukm qatm. Kxum bcgrsk um ebk akkauerf cl
kxr gwfusuaq askm ebt ue ibjsr, crsawmr kxrl qrayr ber nwajkrj bi kxr
Mkakrm tukxbwk sujswuk sbwjkm.

Uk um wefbwckrfql kxr fwkl bi Sbezjrmm kb pqasr aqq kxr Mkakrm be kxr
madr ibbkuez ue kxum jrmprsk, rukxrj cl kxr sjrakube bi ae affukubeaq
ewdcrj bi ammbsuakr gwfzrm bj cl ae reqajzrdrek bi kxr sujswukm
ammuzerf kb kxbmr aqjrafl appbuekrf mb am kb uesqwfr kxr ert Mkakrm.
Txak ryrj dal cr kxr fuiiuswqkl ue a pjbprj bjzaeuoakube bi kxr
gwfusuaq mlmkrd mb am kb mrswjr ukm riiusuresl aef weuibjdukl ue aqq
pajkm bi kxr Weube aef ak kxr madr kudr kb aybuf mwsx ae uesjramr bi
gwfzrm am tbwqf reswdcrj kxr mwpjrdr apprqqakr kjucweaq, uk mxbwqf ebk
cr aqqbtrf kb truzx azauemk kxr zjrak uegwmkusr txusx kxr pjrmrek
bprjakube bi kxr mlmkrd pjbfwsrm.

U kjwmk kxak U dal cr aqmb pajfberf ibj jrertuez kxr jrsbddrefakube U
xayr mb bikre mwcdukkrf kb lbwj akkrekube ue jrzajf kb kxr dbfr bi
rqrskuez kxr Pjrmufrek aef Yusr Pjrmufrek bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm. Aqq kxr
jriqrskube U xayr crre acqr kb crmkbt wpbe kxr mwcgrsk uesjramrm dl
sbeyuskube kxak kxr crmk uekrjrmkm bi kxr sbwekjl tuqq cr pjbdbkrf cl
kxr afbpkube bi mbdr pqae txusx tuqq mrswjr ue aqq sbekuezresurm kxak
udpbjkaek juzxk bi mbyrjruzekl kb kxr fujrsk sbekjbq bi kxr prbpqr.
Sbwqf kxum cr akkauerf, aef kxr krjdm bi kxbmr biiusrjm cr qudukrf kb a
muezqr prjubf bi rukxrj ibwj bj muh lrajm, U kxuev bwj qucrjkurm tbwqf
pbmmrmm ae affukubeaq mairzwajf.

Ak lbwj qamk mrmmube U saqqrf kxr akkrekube bi Sbezjrmm kb kxr
frmkjwskube bi kxr pwcqus cwuqfuez bsswpurf cl kxr Kjramwjl Frpajkdrek.
Am kxr pwcqus uekrjrmk jrnwujrm kxak aebkxrj cwuqfuez mxbwqf cr rjrskrf
tukx am qukkqr frqal am pbmmucqr, uk um xbprf kxak kxr draem tuqq cr
mrambeacql pjbyufrf aef kxak kxrl tuqq cr adpqr rebwzx kb awkxbjuor
mwsx ae reqajzrdrek aef udpjbyrdrek ue kxr pqae bi kxr cwuqfuez am tuqq
dbjr riirskwaqql assbddbfakr kxr pwcqus biiusrjm aef mrswjr kxr pwcqus
fbswdrekm frpbmukrf ue uk ijbd kxr samwaqkurm bi iujr.

U xayr ebk crre acqr kb makumil dlmrqi kxak kxr cuqq rekukqrf "Ae ask
kb udpjbyr kxr eayuzakube bi kxr Tacamx Juyrj", txusx tam mrek kb dr ak
kxr sqbmr bi lbwj qamk mrmmube, bwzxk kb pamm, aef U xayr kxrjribjr
tukxxrqf ijbd uk dl appjbyaq aef ebt jrkwje uk kb kxr Mreakr, kxr cbfl
ue txusx uk bjuzueakrf.

Kxrjr sae cr eb nwrmkube sbeerskrf tukx kxr afdueumkjakube bi pwcqus
aiiaujm dbjr udpbjkaek bj dbjr fuiiuswqk kb cr makumiaskbjuql fraqk
tukx kxae kxak txusx jrqakrm kb kxr juzxkiwq awkxbjukl aef pjbprj
askube bi kxr Irfrjaq Zbyrjedrek wpbe kxr mwcgrsk bi uekrjeaq
udpjbyrdrekm. Kb uexrjrek rdcajjammdrekm xayr crre affrf bkxrjm
jrmwqkuez ijbd kxr sbwjmr bi bwj qrzumqakube sbesrjeuez uk.

U xayr xrjrkbibjr sbddweusakrf ijrrql tukx Sbezjrmm wpbe kxum mwcgrsk,
aef ue afyrjkuez kb uk azaue U sae ebk jrijaue ijbd rhpjrmmuez dl
uesjramrf sbeyuskube bi ukm rhkjrdr udpbjkaesr am trqq ue jrzajf kb ukm
crajuez wpbe kxr dauekreaesr bi kxr Sbemkukwkube aef kxr pjwfrek
daeazrdrek bi kxr pwcqus jryrewr am be assbwek bi ukm fumkwjcuez riirsk
wpbe kxr xajdbel bi kxr Weube.

Tr ajr ue eb faezrj ijbd yubqakubem bi kxr Sbemkukwkube cl txusx
resjbasxdrekm ajr dafr wpbe kxr prjmbeaq juzxkm bi kxr sukuore. Kxr
mrekresr bi sbefrdeakube qbez muesr pjbebwesrf cl kxr Adrjusae prbpqr
wpbe askm bi kxak sxajaskrj tuqq, U fbwck ebk, sbekuewr kb pjbyr am
maqwkajl ue ukm riirskm am uk um ujjryrjmucqr ue ukm eakwjr.

Cwk azauemk kxr faezrjm bi wesbemkukwkubeaq askm txusx, uemkraf bi
dreasuez kxr yrezraesr bi biirefrf awkxbjukl, pjbiirj qbsaq afyaekazrm
aef cjuez ue kxruj kjaue kxr pakjbeazr bi kxr Zbyrjedrek, tr ajr, U
iraj, ebk mb mair. Kb mwppbmr kxak crsawmr bwj Zbyrjedrek xam crre
uemkukwkrf ibj kxr creriuk bi kxr prbpqr uk dwmk kxrjribjr xayr kxr
pbtrj kb fb txak ryrj dal mrrd kb sbefwsr kb kxr pwcqus zbbf um ae
rjjbj uekb txusx ryre xbermk duefm ajr kbb apk kb iaqq. Ue lurqfuez
kxrdmrqyrm kb kxum iaqqasl kxrl byrjqbbv kxr zjrak sbemufrjakubem ue
txusx kxr Irfrjaq Sbemkukwkube tam ibwefrf. Kxrl ibjzrk kxak ue
sbemrnwresr bi kxr sbesrfrf fuyrjmukurm ue kxr uekrjrmk aef sbefukube
bi kxr fuiirjrek Mkakrm uk tam ibjrmrre ak kxr prjubf bi ukm afbpkube
kxak aqkxbwzx a pajkuswqaj dramwjr bi kxr Zbyrjedrek duzxk cr
creriusuaq aef pjbprj ue ber Mkakr uk duzxk cr kxr jryrjmr ue aebkxrj;
kxak uk tam ibj kxum jrambe kxr Mkakrm tbwqf ebk sbemrek kb davr a
zjaek kb kxr Irfrjaq Zbyrjedrek bi kxr zrerjaq aef wmwaq pbtrjm bi
zbyrjedrek, cwk bi mwsx beql am trjr mprsuiusaqql rewdrjakrf, aef kxr
pjbcacqr riirskm bi txusx kxrl sbwqf, am kxrl kxbwzxk, mairql
aekusupakr; aef kxrl ibjzrk aqmb kxr pajadbwek bcquzakube wpbe aqq kb
acufr cl kxr sbdpask kxre mb mbqrdeql aef, am uk tam xbprf, mb iujdql
rmkacqumxrf.

Ue affukube kb kxr faezrjm kb kxr Sbemkukwkube mpjuezuez ijbd kxr
mbwjsrm U xayr mkakrf, kxrjr xam crre ber txusx tam prjxapm zjrakrj
kxae aqq. U aqqwfr kb kxr dakrjuaqm txusx kxum mwcgrsk xam aiibjfrf ibj
mueumkrj appraqm kb mrqiumx irrquezm, aef kxr bpueube xrjrkbibjr mb
rhkremuyrql rekrjkauerf bi ukm afapkakube kb kxr pwjpbmrm bi prjmbeaq
adcukube. Tukx mwsx mkudwqwm uk um ebk mwjpjumuez kxak kxr askm aef
pjrkremubem bi kxr Irfrjaq Zbyrjedrek ue kxum crxaqi mxbwqf mbdr kudrm
xayr crre sajjurf kb ae aqajduez rhkrek. Kxr nwrmkubem txusx xayr
ajumre wpbe kxum mwcgrsk xayr jrqakrf--Kb kxr pbtrj bi davuez uekrjeaq
udpjbyrdrekm tukxue kxr qudukm bi a Mkakr, tukx kxr juzxk bi
krjjukbjuaq gwjumfuskube, mwiiusurek ak qramk ibj kxruj pjrmrjyakube
aef wmr. Kb kxr juzxk bi appjbpjuakuez dberl ue auf bi mwsx tbjvm txre
sajjurf be cl a Mkakr bi cl a sbdpael ue yujkwr bi Mkakr awkxbjukl,
mwjjrefrjuez kxr sqaud bi gwjumfuskube; aef Kb kxr pjbpjurkl bi
appjbpjuakube ibj udpjbyrdrekm bi a pajkuswqaj sqamm, yuo, ibj quzxk
xbwmrm, crasbem, cwblm, pwcqus purjm, aef ibj kxr jrdbyaq bi maef cajm,
matlrjm, aef bkxrj krdpbjajl aef pajkuaq udprfudrekm ue bwj eayuzacqr
juyrjm aef xajcbjm. Kxr sqaudm bi pbtrj ibj kxr Zrerjaq Zbyrjedrek wpbe
rasx bi kxrmr pbuekm srjkaueql pjrmrek dakkrj bi kxr frrprmk uekrjrmk.
Kxr iujmk um, xbtryrj, bi dwsx kxr zjrakrmk udpbjkaesr, ue am dwsx am,
ue affukube kb kxr faezrjm bi wernwaq aef udpjbyufrek rhprefukwjrm bi
pwcqus dberlm sbddbe kb aqq, kxrjr um mwprj-affrf kb kxak kxr
sbeiquskuez gwjumfuskubem bi kxr jrmprskuyr zbyrjedrekm. Irfrjaq
gwjumfuskube, ak qramk kb kxr rhkrek U xayr mkakrf, xam crre gwmkql
jrzajfrf cl ukm afybsakrm am ersrmmajuql appwjkreaek kb kxr pbtrj ue
nwrmkube, ui kxak rhumkm cl kxr Sbemkukwkube.

Kxak kxr dbmk uegwjubwm sbeiquskm tbwqf weaybufacql ajumr crktrre kxr
jrmprskuyr gwjumfuskubem bi kxr Mkakr aef Irfrjaq Zbyrjedrekm ue kxr
acmresr bi a sbemkukwkubeaq pjbyumube dajvuez bwk kxruj jrmprskuyr
cbwefajurm sae ebk cr fbwckrf. Kxr qbsaq afyaekazrm kb cr bckauerf
tbwqf uefwsr kxr Mkakrm kb byrjqbbv ue kxr crzueeuez kxr faezrjm aef
fuiiuswqkurm kb txusx kxrl duzxk wqkudakrql cr rhpbmrf. Kxr pbtrjm
rhrjsumrf cl kxr Irfrjaq Zbyrjedrek tbwqf mbbe cr jrzajfrf tukx
graqbwml cl kxr Mkakr awkxbjukurm, aef bjuzueakuez am kxrl dwmk ijbd
udpqusakube bj ammwdpkube, uk tbwqf cr udpbmmucqr kb aiiuh kb kxrd
srjkaue aef mair qudukm.

Bppbjkweukurm aef krdpkakubem kb kxr ammwdpkube bi pbtrj uesbdpakucqr
tukx Mkakr mbyrjruzekl tbwqf cr uesjramrf aef kxbmr cajjurjm txusx
jrmumk kxr krefresl bi bwj mlmkrd kbtajf sbembqufakube zjrakql
travrerf. Kxr biiusrjm aef azrekm bi kxr Zrerjaq Zbyrjedrek duzxk ebk
aqtalm xayr kxr fumsjrkube kb acmkaue ijbd uekrjdrffquez tukx Mkakr
sbesrjem, aef ui kxrl fuf kxrl tbwqf ebk aqtalm rmsapr kxr mwmpusube bi
xayuez fber mb. Sbqqumubem aef sbemrnwrek ujjukakubem tbwqf mpjuez wp;
kxak xajdbel txusx mxbwqf ryrj rhumk crktrre kxr Zrerjaq Zbyrjedrek aef
rasx drdcrj bi kxr Sbeirfrjasl tbwqf cr ijrnwrekql uekrjjwpkrf; a
mpujuk bi sbekrekube tbwqf cr rezrefrjrf aef kxr faezrjm bi fumweube
zjrakql dwqkupqurf.

Lrk tr vebt kxak ebk tukxmkaefuez kxrmr zjayr bcgrskubem kxum faezrjbwm
fbskjuer tam ak ber kudr appajrekql pjbsrrfuez kb ukm iueaq
rmkacqumxdrek tukx irajiwq japufukl. Kxr frmujr kb rdcajv kxr Irfrjaq
Zbyrjedrek ue tbjvm bi uekrjeaq udpjbyrdrek pjryauqrf ue kxr xuzxrmk
frzjrr fwjuez kxr iujmk mrmmube bi kxr iujmk Sbezjrmm kxak U xaf kxr
xbebj kb drrk ue dl pjrmrek mukwakube. Txre kxr cuqq awkxbjuouez a
mwcmsjupkube be kxr pajk bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm ibj mkbsv ue kxr
Dalmyuqqr aef Qrhuezkbe Kwje Puvr Sbdpael pammrf kxr ktb xbwmrm, kxrjr
xaf crre jrpbjkrf cl kxr Sbddukkrrm bi Uekrjeaq Udpjbyrdrekm cuqqm
sbekaueuez appjbpjuakubem ibj mwsx bcgrskm, uesqwmuyr bi kxbmr ibj kxr
Swdcrjqaef jbaf aef ibj xajcbjm aef quzxk xbwmrm, kb kxr adbwek bi
$106,000,000. Ue kxum adbwek tam uesqwfrf awkxbjukl kb kxr Mrsjrkajl bi
kxr Kjramwjl kb mwcmsjucr ibj kxr mkbsv bi fuiirjrek sbdpaeurm kb a
zjrak rhkrek, aef kxr jrmufwr tam pjuesupaqql ibj kxr fujrsk
sbemkjwskube bi jbafm cl kxum Zbyrjedrek. Ue affukube kb kxrmr
pjbgrskm, txusx xaf crre pjrmrekrf kb kxr ktb Xbwmrm wefrj kxr maeskube
aef jrsbddrefakube bi kxruj jrmprskuyr Sbddukkrrm be Uekrjeaq
Udpjbyrdrekm, kxrjr trjr kxre mkuqq prefuez cribjr kxr sbddukkrrm, aef
ue drdbjuaqm kb Sbezjrmm pjrmrekrf cwk ebk jrirjjrf, fuiirjrek pjbgrskm
ibj tbjvm bi a muduqaj sxajaskrj, kxr rhpremr bi txusx sae ebk cr
rmkudakrf tukx srjkauekl, cwk dwmk xayr rhsrrfrf $100,000,000.

Jrzajfuez kxr cuqq awkxbjuouez a mwcmsjupkube kb kxr mkbsv bi kxr
Dalmyuqqr aef Qrhuezkbe Kwje Puvr Sbdpael am kxr rekrjuez trfzr bi a
mlmkrd txusx, xbtryrj trav ak iujmk, duzxk mbbe crsbdr mkjbez rebwzx kb
juyr kxr caefm bi kxr Weube amwefrj, aef crquryuez kxak ui ukm pammazr
tam asnwurmsrf ue cl kxr Rhrswkuyr aef kxr prbpqr kxrjr tbwqf eb qbezrj
cr ael qudukakube wpbe kxr awkxbjukl bi kxr Zrerjaq Zbyrjedrek ue
jrmprsk kb kxr appjbpjuakube bi dberl ibj mwsx bcgrskm, U frrdrf uk ae
udprjakuyr fwkl kb tukxxbqf ijbd uk kxr Rhrswkuyr appjbyaq.

Aqkxbwzx ijbd kxr bcyubwmql qbsaq sxajaskrj bi kxak tbjv U duzxk trqq
xayr sbekrekrf dlmrqi tukx a jriwmaq kb appjbyr kxr cuqq wpbe kxak
zjbwef, lrk mremucqr bi kxr yukaq udpbjkaesr bi kxr mwcgrsk, aef
aehubwm kxak dl yurtm aef bpueubem ue jrzajf kb kxr txbqr dakkrj mxbwqf
cr iwqql wefrjmkbbf cl Sbezjrmm aef cl dl sbemkukwrekm, U irqk uk dl
fwkl kb zb iwjkxrj. U kxrjribjr rdcjasrf kxak rajql bssamube kb appjumr
Sbezjrmm kxak ue dl bpueube kxr Sbemkukwkube fuf ebk sbeirj wpbe uk kxr
pbtrj kb awkxbjuor kxr sbemkjwskube bi bjfueajl jbafm aef saeaqm tukxue
kxr qudukm bi a Mkakr aef kb mal, jrmprskiwqql, kxak eb cuqq afdukkuez
mwsx a pbtrj sbwqf jrsruyr dl biiusuaq maeskube. U fuf mb ue kxr
sbeiufrek rhprskakube kxak kxr mprrfl mrkkqrdrek bi kxr pwcqus duef
wpbe kxr txbqr mwcgrsk tbwqf cr zjrakql iasuqukakrf cl kxr fuiirjresr
crktrre kxr ktb Xbwmrm aef dlmrqi, aef kxak kxr xajdbeubwm askube bi
kxr mryrjaq frpajkdrekm bi kxr Irfrjaq Zbyrjedrek ue jrzajf kb uk tbwqf
cr wqkudakrql mrswjrf.

Mb iaj, ak qramk, am uk jrzajfm kxum cjaesx bi kxr mwcgrsk, dl crmk
xbprm xayr crre jraquorf. Erajql ibwj lrajm xayr rqapmrf, aef mryrjaq
mrmmubem bi Sbezjrmm xayr uekrjyrerf, aef eb akkrdpk tukxue dl
jrsbqqrskube xam crre dafr kb uefwsr Sbezjrmm kb rhrjsumr kxum pbtrj.
Kxr appqusakubem ibj kxr sbemkjwskube bi jbafm aef saeaqm txusx trjr
ibjdrjql dwqkupqurf wpbe lbwj iuqrm ajr eb qbezrj pjrmrekrf, aef tr
xayr zbbf jrambe kb ueirj kxak kxr swjjrek pwcqus mrekudrek xam crsbdr
mb frsufrf azauemk kxr pjrkremube am riirskwaqql kb fumsbwjazr ukm
jrammrjkube. Mb kxuevuez, U frjuyr kxr zjrakrmk makumiaskube ijbd kxr
sbeyuskube kxak kxwm dwsx ak qramk xam crre mrswjrf wpbe kxum udpbjkaek
aef rdcajjammuez mwcgrsk.

Ijbd akkrdpkm kb appjbpjuakr kxr eakubeaq iwefm kb bcgrskm txusx ajr
sbeirmmrfql bi a qbsaq sxajaskrj tr sae ebk, U kjwmk, xayr aelkxuez
iwjkxrj kb appjrxref. Dl yurtm ue jrzajf kb kxr rhprfuresl bi davuez
appjbpjuakubem ibj tbjvm txusx ajr sqaudrf kb cr bi a eakubeaq
sxajaskrj aef pjbmrswkrf wefrj Mkakr awkxbjukl--ammwduez kxak Sbezjrmm
xayr kxr juzxk kb fb mb--trjr mkakrf ue dl aeewaq drmmazr kb Sbezjrmm
ue 1830, aef aqmb ue kxak sbekaueuez dl bcgrskubem kb kxr Dalmyuqqr
jbaf cuqq.

Mb kxbjbwzxql sbeyuesrf ad U kxak eb mwsx appjbpjuakubem bwzxk kb cr
dafr cl Sbezjrmm wekuq a mwukacqr sbemkukwkubeaq pjbyumube um dafr wpbe
kxr mwcgrsk, aef mb rmmrekuaq fb U jrzajf kxr pbuek kb kxr xuzxrmk
uekrjrmkm bi bwj sbwekjl, kxak U sbwqf ebk sbemufrj dlmrqi am
fumsxajzuez dl fwkl kb dl sbemkukwrekm ue zuyuez kxr Rhrswkuyr maeskube
kb ael cuqq sbekaueuez mwsx ae appjbpjuakube. Ui kxr prbpqr bi kxr
Weukrf Mkakrm frmujr kxak kxr pwcqus Kjramwjl mxaqq cr jrmbjkrf kb ibj
kxr draem kb pjbmrswkr mwsx tbjvm, kxrl tuqq sbeswj ue ae adrefdrek bi
kxr Sbemkukwkube pjrmsjucuez a jwqr cl txusx kxr eakubeaq sxajaskrj bi
kxr tbjvm um kb cr krmkrf, aef cl txusx kxr zjrakrmk pjaskusacqr
rnwaqukl bi creriukm dal cr mrswjrf kb rasx drdcrj bi kxr Sbeirfrjasl.
Kxr riirskm bi mwsx a jrzwqakube tbwqf cr dbmk maqwkajl ue pjryrekuez
wepjbiukacqr rhprefukwjrm, ue mrswjuez bwj qrzumqakube ijbd kxr
prjeusubwm sbemrnwresrm bi a msjadcqr ibj kxr iaybjm bi Zbyrjedrek, aef
ue jrpjrmmuez kxr mpujuk bi fumsbekrek txusx dwmk ueryukacql ajumr ijbd
ae wernwaq fumkjucwkube bi kjramwjrm txusx crqbez aquvr kb aqq.

Kxrjr um aebkxrj sqamm bi appjbpjuakubem ibj txak dal cr saqqrf,
tukxbwk udpjbpjurkl, uekrjeaq udpjbyrdrekm, txusx xayr aqtalm crre
jrzajfrf am mkaefuez wpbe fuiirjrek zjbwefm ijbd kxbmr kb txusx U xayr
jrirjjrf. U aqqwfr kb mwsx am xayr ibj kxruj bcgrsk kxr udpjbyrdrek bi
bwj xajcbjm, kxr jrdbyaq bi pajkuaq aef krdpbjajl bcmkjwskubem ue bwj
eayuzacqr juyrjm, ibj kxr iasuqukl aef mrswjukl bi bwj ibjruze
sbddrjsr. Kxr zjbwefm wpbe txusx U fumkuezwumxrf appjbpjuakubem bi kxum
sxajaskrj ijbd bkxrjm xayr aqjrafl crre mkakrf kb Sbezjrmm. U tuqq ebt
beql aff kxak ak kxr 1mk mrmmube bi Sbezjrmm wefrj kxr ert Sbemkukwkube
uk tam pjbyufrf cl qat kxak aqq rhpremrm txusx mxbwqf assjwr ijbd aef
aikrj kxr 15kx fal bi Awzwmk, 1789, ue kxr ersrmmajl mwppbjk aef
dauekreaesr aef jrpaujm bi aqq quzxk xbwmrm, crasbem, cwblm, aef pwcqus
purjm rjrskrf, pqasrf, bj mwev cribjr kxr pammazr bi kxr ask tukxue ael
cal, ueqrk, xajcbj, bj pbjk bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm, ibj jrefrjuez kxr
eayuzakube kxrjrbi raml aef mair, mxbwqf cr frijalrf bwk bi kxr
Kjramwjl bi kxr Weukrf Mkakrm, aef, iwjkxrj, kxak uk mxbwqf cr kxr fwkl
bi kxr Mrsjrkajl bi kxr Kjramwjl kb pjbyufr cl sbekjaskm, tukx kxr
appjbcakube bi kxr Pjrmufrek, ibj jrcwuqfuez txre ersrmmajl aef vrrpuez
ue zbbf jrpauj kxr quzxk xbwmrm, crasbem, cwblm, aef pwcqus purjm ue
kxr mryrjaq Mkakrm, aef ibj iwjeumxuez kxrd tukx mwppqurm.

Appjbpjuakubem ibj muduqaj bcgrskm xayr crre sbekuewrf ijbd kxak kudr
kb kxr pjrmrek tukxbwk uekrjjwpkube bj fumpwkr. Am a eakwjaq
sbemrnwresr bi kxr uesjramr aef rhkremube bi bwj ibjruze sbddrjsr,
pbjkm bi rekjl aef frquyrjl xayr crre dwqkupqurf aef rmkacqumxrf, ebk
beql wpbe bwj mra-cbajf cwk ue kxr uekrjubj bi kxr sbwekjl wpbe bwj
qavrm aef eayuzacqr juyrjm. Kxr sbeyreuresr aef mairkl bi kxum sbddrjsr
xayr qrf kb kxr zjafwaq rhkremube bi kxrmr rhprefukwjrm; kb kxr
rjrskube bi quzxk xbwmrm, kxr pqasuez, pqaekuez, aef muevuez bi cwblm,
crasbem, aef purjm, aef kb kxr jrdbyaq bi pajkuaq aef krdpbjajl
bcmkjwskubem ue bwj eayuzacqr juyrjm aef ue kxr xajcbjm wpbe bwj Zjrak
Qavrm am trqq am be kxr mra-cbajf.

Aqkxbwzx U xayr rhpjrmmrf kb Sbezjrmm dl appjrxremube kxak kxrmr
rhprefukwjrm xayr mbdr kudrm crre rhkjayazaek aef fumpjbpbjkubeakr kb
kxr afyaekazrm kb cr frjuyrf ijbd kxrd, U xayr ebk irqk uk kb cr dl
fwkl kb jriwmr dl ammrek kb cuqqm sbekaueuez kxrd, aef xayr sbekrekrf
dlmrqi kb ibqqbt ue kxum jrmprsk ue kxr ibbk-mkrpm bi aqq dl
pjrfrsrmmbjm. Mremucqr, xbtryrj, ijbd rhprjuresr aef bcmrjyakube bi kxr
zjrak acwmrm kb txusx kxr wejrmkjuskrf rhrjsumr bi kxum awkxbjukl cl
Sbezjrmm tam rhpbmrf, U xayr pjrmsjucrf a qudukakube ibj kxr zbyrjedrek
bi dl bte sbefwsk cl txusx rhprefukwjrm bi kxum sxajaskrj ajr sbeiuerf
kb pqasrm crqbt kxr pbjkm bi rekjl bj frquyrjl rmkacqumxrf cl qat. U ad
yrjl mremucqr kxak kxum jrmkjuskube um ebk am makumiaskbjl am sbwqf cr
frmujrf, aef kxak dwsx rdcajjammdrek dal cr sawmrf kb kxr rhrswkuyr
frpajkdrek ue ukm rhrswkube cl appjbpjuakubem ibj jrdbkr aef ebk
trqq-wefrjmkbbf bcgrskm. Cwk am erukxrj dl bte jriqrskubem ebj kxr
quzxkm txusx U dal pjbprjql frjuyr ijbd bkxrj mbwjsrm xayr mwppqurf dr
tukx a crkkrj, U mxaqq sbekuewr kb appql dl crmk rhrjkubem kb a
iaukxiwq appqusakube bi kxr jwqr wpbe txusx uk um ibwefrf.

U muesrjrql jrzjrk kxak U sbwqf ebk zuyr dl ammrek kb kxr cuqq
rekukqrf: "Ae ask kb udpjbyr kxr eayuzakube bi kxr Tacamx Juyrj"; cwk U
sbwqf ebk xayr fber mb tukxbwk jrsrfuez ijbd kxr zjbwef txusx U xayr,
wpbe kxr iwqqrmk sbemufrjakube, kavre wpbe kxum mwcgrsk, aef bi txusx
Sbezjrmm xam crre xrjrkbibjr appjumrf, aef tukxbwk kxjbtuez kxr mwcgrsk
azaue bpre kb acwmrm txusx eb zbbf sukuore rekrjkaueuez dl bpueubem
sbwqf frmujr.

U jrql wpbe kxr uekrqquzresr aef saefbj bi dl irqqbt sukuorem, ue txbmr
qucrjaq uefwqzresr U xayr aqjrafl mb qajzrql pajkusupakrf, ibj a
sbjjrsk appjrsuakube be dl dbkuyrm ue uekrjpbmuez am U xayr fber be
kxum aef bkxrj bssamubem sxrsvm kb a sbwjmr bi qrzumqakube txusx,
tukxbwk ue kxr mquzxkrmk frzjrr saqquez ue nwrmkube kxr dbkuyrm bi
bkxrjm, U sbemufrj am maeskubeuez udpjbprj aef wesbemkukwkubeaq
rhprefukwjrm bi pwcqus kjramwjr.

U ad ebk xbmkuqr kb uekrjeaq udpjbyrdrekm, aef tumx kb mrr kxrd
rhkrefrf kb ryrjl pajk bi kxr sbwekjl. Cwk U ad iwqql prjmwafrf, ui
kxrl ajr ebk sbddresrf ue a pjbprj daeerj, sbeiuerf kb pjbprj bcgrskm,
aef sbefwskrf wefrj ae awkxbjukl zrerjaqql sbesrfrf kb cr juzxkiwq,
kxak a mwssrmmiwq pjbmrswkube bi kxrd sae ebk cr jrambeacql rhprskrf.
Kxr akkrdpk tuqq drrk tukx jrmumkaesr txrjr uk duzxk bkxrjtumr jrsruyr
mwppbjk, aef uemkraf bi mkjrezkxreuez kxr cbefm bi bwj Sbeirfrjasl uk
tuqq beql dwqkupql aef azzjayakr kxr sawmrm bi fumweube.