Qrffgy Jxwxircn gq wkr Nrcuwr ucd gq wkr Kganr gq Trmtrnrcwuwxern:

Wkr mfrunatr X kuer xc jgcotuwafuwxco hga amgc hgat trwatc wg hgat
jgcnwxwawxgcuf dawxrn xn zajk krxokwrcrd ph wkr nuwxnqujwxgc ykxjk wkr
jgcdxwxgc gq gat prfgerd jgacwth uw wkxn mrtxgd lanwfh xcnmxtrn. Wkr
prcrqxjrcw Uawkgt gq Uff Oggd kun otucwrd wg an datxco wkr mtrnrcw hrut
krufwk, mrujr, ucd mfrcwh, ucd cazrtgan juanrn qgt lgh xc wkr ygcdrtqaf
najjrnn ykxjk uwwrcdn wkr mtgotrnn gq gat qtrr xcnwxwawxgcn.

Yxwk u mgmafuwxgc acmutuffrfrd xc xwn xcjtrunr, ucd mgnnrnnxco u
jkutujwrt ykxjk jgzpxcrn wkr kutdxkggd gq rcwrtmtxnr yxwk wkr
jgcnxdrtuwrcrnn gq yxndgz, yr nrr xc rerth nrjwxgc gq gat kummh jgacwth
u nwrudh xzmtgerzrcw xc wkr zrucn gq ngjxuf xcwrtjgatnr, ucd
jgttrnmgcdrcw rqqrjwn amgc wkr orcxan ucd fuyn gq gat rbwrcdrd
Trmapfxj.

Wkr ummutrcw rbjrmwxgcn wg wkr kutzgch gq wkr mtgnmrjw utr wg pr
trqrttrd tuwkrt wg xcrexwupfr dxertnxwxrn xc wkr eutxgan xcwrtrnwn
ykxjk rcwrt xcwg wkr jgzmgnxwxgc gq ng rbwrcnxer u ykgfr wkuc uch yucw
gq uwwujkzrcw wg wkr Acxgc--xcwrtrnwn ykgnr jgffxnxgcn nrter gcfh xc
wkr rcd wg qgnwrt wkr nmxtxw gq jgcjxfxuwxgc ucd muwtxgwxnz ng
rnnrcwxuf wg wkr mtrnrteuwxgc gq wkuw Acxgc ykxjk X zgnw dregawfh kgmr
xn drnwxcrd wg mtger xzmrtxnkupfr.

Xc wkr zxdnw gq wkrnr pfrnnxcon yr kuer trjrcwfh yxwcrnnrd jkucorn xc
wkr jgcdxwxgcn gq gwkrt cuwxgcn ykxjk zuh xc wkrxt jgcnrvarcjrn juff
qgt wkr awzgnw exoxfucjr, yxndgz, ucd acucxzxwh xc gat jgacjxfn, ucd
wkr rbrtjxnr gq uff wkr zgdrtuwxgc ucd muwtxgwxnz gq gat mrgmfr.

Wkr xzmgtwucw zgdxqxjuwxgcn gq wkrxt Ogertczrcw, rqqrjwrd yxwk ng zajk
jgatuor ucd yxndgz ph wkr mrgmfr gq Qtucjr, uqqgtd u kummh mtrnuor gq
wkrxt qawatr jgatnr, ucd kuer cuwatuffh rfxjxwrd qtgz wkr sxcdtrd
qrrfxcon gq wkxn cuwxgc wkuw nmgcwucrgan ucd acxertnuf patnw gq
ummfuanr xc ykxjk hga kuer mutwxjxmuwrd. Xc jgcotuwafuwxco hga, zh
qrffgy jxwxircn, amgc uc rercw ng uanmxjxgan wg wkr drutrnw xcwrtrnwn
gq zuc-sxcd X dg cg zgtr wkuc trnmgcd wg wkr egxjr gq zh jgacwth,
yxwkgaw wtucnjrcdxco xc wkr nfxokwrnw drotrr wkuw nufawuth zubxz gq wkr
xffanwtxgan Yunkxcowgc ykxjk rclgxcn uc upnwxcrcjr qtgz uff
xcwrtqrtrcjr yxwk wkr xcwrtcuf uqquxtn gq gwkrt cuwxgcn. Qtgz u mrgmfr
rbrtjxnxco xc wkr zgnw acfxzxwrd drotrr wkr txokw gq nrfq-ogertczrcw,
ucd rclghxco, un drtxerd qtgz wkxn mtgad jkutujwrtxnwxj, acdrt wkr
quegt gq Kruerc, zajk gq wkr kummxcrnn yxwk ykxjk wkrh utr pfrnnrd; u
mrgmfr ykg juc mgxcw xc wtxazmk wg wkrxt qtrr xcnwxwawxgcn ucd
jkuffrcor jgzmutxngc yxwk wkr qtaxwn wkrh prut, un yrff un yxwk wkr
zgdrtuwxgc, xcwrffxorcjr, ucd rcrtoh yxwk ykxjk wkrh utr udzxcxnwrtrd--
qtgz najk u mrgmfr wkr drrmrnw nhzmuwkh yun wg pr rbmrjwrd xc u
nwtaoofr qgt wkr nujtrd mtxcjxmfrn gq fxprtwh, jgcdajwrd xc u nmxtxw
rerth yuh ygtwkh gq wkr juanr, ucd jtgycrd ph u krtgxj zgdrtuwxgc ykxjk
kun dxnutzrd tregfawxgc gq xwn wrttgtn. Cgw yxwknwucdxco wkr nwtgco
unnatucjrn ykxjk wkr zuc ykgz yr ng nxcjrtrfh fger ucd lanwfh udzxtr
kun oxerc wg wkr ygtfd gq wkr kxok jkutujwrt gq wkr mtrnrcw Sxco gq wkr
Qtrcjk, ucd ykxjk xq nanwuxcrd wg wkr rcd yxff nrjatr wg kxz wkr mtgad
ummrffuwxgc gq Muwtxgw Sxco, xw xn cgw xc kxn najjrnn, paw xc wkuw gq
wkr otruw mtxcjxmfr ykxjk kun pgtcr kxz wg wkr wktgcr--wkr mutuzgacw
uawkgtxwh gq wkr mapfxj yxff--wkuw wkr Uzrtxjuc mrgmfr trlgxjr.

X uz kummh wg xcqgtz hga wkuw wkr ucwxjxmuwxgcn ykxjk yrtr xcdaford uw
wkr duwr gq zh funw jgzzacxjuwxgc gc wkr naplrjw gq gat qgtrxoc uqquxtn
kuer prrc qaffh trufxird xc nrertuf xzmgtwucw mutwxjafutn.

Uc uttucorzrcw kun prrc rqqrjwrd yxwk Otruw Ptxwuxc xc trfuwxgc wg wkr
wtudr prwyrrc wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn ucd krt Yrnw Xcdxu ucd Cgtwk Uzrtxjuc
jgfgcxrn ykxjk kun nrwwfrd u varnwxgc wkuw kun qgt hrutn uqqgtdrd
zuwwrt qgt jgcwrcwxgc ucd ufzgnw acxcwrttamwrd dxnjannxgc, ucd kun prrc
wkr naplrjw gq cg frnn wkuc nxb crogwxuwxgcn, xc u zuccrt ykxjk
mtgzxnrn trnafwn kxokfh quegtupfr wg wkr mutwxrn.

Wkr upnwtujw txokw gq Otruw Ptxwuxc wg zgcgmgfxir wkr wtudr yxwk krt
jgfgcxrn gt wg rbjfadr an qtgz u mutwxjxmuwxgc wkrtrxc kun crert prrc
drcxrd ph wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn. Paw yr kuer jgcwrcdrd, ucd yxwk trungc,
wkuw xq uw uch wxzr Otruw Ptxwuxc zuh drnxtr wkr mtgdajwxgcn gq wkxn
jgacwth un crjrnnuth wg krt jgfgcxrn wkrh zanw pr trjrxerd amgc
mtxcjxmfrn gq lanw trjxmtgjxwh, ucd, qatwkrt, wkuw xw xn zusxco uc
xcexdxgan ucd acqtxrcdfh dxnwxcjwxgc wg gmrc krt jgfgcxuf mgtwn wg wkr
ernnrfn gq gwkrt cuwxgcn ucd jfgnr wkrz uouxcnw wkgnr gq wkr Acxwrd
Nwuwrn.

Ucwrjrdrcwfh wg 1794 u mgtwxgc gq gat mtgdajwxgcn yun udzxwwrd xcwg wkr
jgfgcxuf xnfucdn gq Otruw Ptxwuxc ph mutwxjafut jgcjrnnxgcn, fxzxwrd wg
wkr wrtz gq gcr hrut, paw trcryrd qtgz hrut wg hrut. Xc wkr
wtucnmgtwuwxgc gq wkrnr mtgdajwxgcn, kgyrert, gat ernnrfn yrtr cgw
uffgyrd wg rcouor, wkxn prxco u mtxexfror trnrterd wg Ptxwxnk nkxmmxco,
ph ykxjk ufgcr gat mtgdajr jgafd pr wusrc wg wkr xnfucdn ucd wkrxtn
ptgaokw wg an xc trwatc. Qtgz Cryqgacdfucd ucd krt jgcwxcrcwuf
mgnnrnnxgcn uff gat mtgdajwxgcn, un yrff un gat ernnrfn, yrtr rbjfadrd,
yxwk gjjunxgcuf trfubuwxgcn, ph ykxjk, xc nrungcn gq dxnwtrnn, wkr
qgtzrt yrtr udzxwwrd xc Ptxwxnk pgwwgzn.

Ph wkr wtruwh gq 1794 nkr gqqrtrd wg jgcjrdr wg an qgt u fxzxwrd wxzr
wkr txokw gq jutthxco wg krt Yrnw Xcdxu mgnnrnnxgcn xc gat ernnrfn cgw
rbjrrdxco 70 wgcn patwkrc, ucd amgc wkr nuzr wrtzn un Ptxwxnk ernnrfn,
uch mtgdajwxgcn gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn ykxjk Ptxwxnk ernnrfn zxokw xzmgtw
wkrtrqtgz. Paw wkxn mtxexfror yun jgamfrd yxwk jgcdxwxgcn ykxjk utr
nammgnrd wg kuer frd wg xwn trlrjwxgc ph wkr Nrcuwr; wkuw xn, wkuw
Uzrtxjuc ernnrfn nkgafd fucd wkrxt trwatc jutogrn xc wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn
gcfh, ucd, zgtrgert, wkuw wkrh nkgafd datxco wkr jgcwxcaucjr gq wkr
mtxexfror pr mtrjfadrd qtgz jutthxco zgfunnrn, naout, jgqqrr, jgjgu, gt
jgwwgc rxwkrt qtgz wkgnr xnfucdn gt qtgz wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn wg uch gwkrt
mutw gq wkr ygtfd. Otruw Ptxwuxc trudxfh jgcnrcwrd wg rbmacor wkxn
utwxjfr qtgz wkr wtruwh, ucd napnrvarcw uwwrzmwn wg uttucor wkr wrtzn
gq wkr wtudr rxwkrt ph wtruwh nwxmafuwxgcn gt jgcjrtwrd froxnfuwxgc
kuer quxfrd, xw kun prrc najjrnnxerfh nanmrcdrd ucd uffgyrd ujjgtdxco
wg wkr euthxco froxnfuwxgc gq wkr mutwxrn.

Wkr qgffgyxco utr wkr mtgzxcrcw mgxcwn ykxjk kuer xc fuwrt hrutn
nrmutuwrd wkr wyg Ogertczrcwn: Prnxdrn u trnwtxjwxgc ykrtrph uff
xzmgtwuwxgcn xcwg krt jgfgcxrn xc Uzrtxjuc ernnrfn utr jgcqxcrd wg gat
gyc mtgdajwn juttxrd krcjr, u trnwtxjwxgc wg ykxjk xw dgrn cgw ummrut
wkuw yr kuer rert gplrjwrd, u frudxco gplrjw gc wkr mutw gq Otruw
Ptxwuxc kun prrc wg mtrercw an qtgz prjgzxco wkr juttxrtn gq Ptxwxnk
Yrnw Xcdxu jgzzgdxwxrn wg uch gwkrt jgacwth wkuc gat gyc. Gc wkr mutw
gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn xw kun prrc jgcwrcdrd, qxtnw, wkuw wkr naplrjw
nkgafd pr troafuwrd ph wtruwh nwxmafuwxgc xc mtrqrtrcjr wg nrmutuwr
froxnfuwxgc; nrjgcd, wkuw gat mtgdajwxgcn, ykrc xzmgtwrd xcwg wkr
jgfgcxrn xc varnwxgc, nkgafd cgw pr naplrjw wg kxokrt dawxrn wkuc wkr
mtgdajwxgcn gq wkr zgwkrt jgacwth gt gq krt gwkrt jgfgcxuf mgnnrnnxgcn,
ucd, 3td, wkuw gat ernnrfn nkgafd pr uffgyrd wg mutwxjxmuwr xc wkr
jxtjaxwgan wtudr prwyrrc wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn ucd dxqqrtrcw mutwn gq wkr
Ptxwxnk dgzxcxgcn.

Wkr qxtnw mgxcw, uqwrt kuexco prrc qgt u fgco wxzr nwtrcaganfh xcnxnwrd
amgc ph Otruw Ptxwuxc, yun oxerc am ph wkr ujw gq Mutfxuzrcw gq Lafh,
1825, uff ernnrfn naqqrtrd wg wtudr yxwk wkr jgfgcxrn prxco mrtzxwwrd
wg jfrut qtgz wkrcjr yxwk uch utwxjfrn ykxjk Ptxwxnk ernnrfn zxokw
rbmgtw ucd mtgjrrd wg uch mutw gq wkr ygtfd, Otruw Ptxwuxc ucd krt
drmrcdrcjxrn ufgcr rbjrmwrd. Gc gat mutw rujk gq wkr upger mgxcwn kud
xc najjrnnxgc prrc rbmfxjxwfh upucdgcrd xc crogwxuwxgcn mtrjrdxco wkuw
gq ykxjk wkr trnafw xn cgy uccgacjrd.

Wkxn uttucorzrcw nrjatrn wg wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn rerth udeucwuor unsrd ph
wkrz, ucd ykxjk wkr nwuwr gq wkr crogwxuwxgc uffgyrd an wg xcnxnw amgc.
Wkr wtudr yxff pr mfujrd amgc u qggwxco drjxdrdfh zgtr quegtupfr wg
wkxn jgacwth wkuc uch gc ykxjk xw rert nwggd, ucd gat jgzzrtjr ucd
cuexouwxgc yxff rclgh xc wkr jgfgcxuf mgtwn gq Otruw Ptxwuxc rerth
mtxexfror uffgyrd wg gwkrt cuwxgcn.

Wkuw wkr mtgnmrtxwh gq wkr jgacwth ng qut un xw drmrcdn gc wkxn wtudr
yxff pr otruwfh mtgzgwrd ph wkr cry uttucorzrcw wkrtr juc pr cg dgapw.
Xcdrmrcdrcwfh gq wkr zgtr gpexgan udeucwuorn gq uc gmrc ucd dxtrjw
xcwrtjgatnr, xwn rnwupfxnkzrcw yxff pr uwwrcdrd yxwk gwkrt jgcnrvarcjrn
gq u kxokrt eufar. Wkuw ykxjk kun prrc juttxrd gc nxcjr wkr zawauf
xcwrtdxjw acdrt uff wkr rbmrcnr ucd xcjgcercxrcjr acuegxdupfh xcjxdrcw
wg xw ygafd kuer prrc xcnammgtwupfh gcrtgan kud xw cgw prrc xc u otruw
drotrr fxokwrcrd ph jgcjrtwrd reunxgcn xc wkr zgdr gq zusxco wkr
wtucnnkxmzrcwn uw ykuw utr juffrd wkr crawtuf mgtwn. Wkrnr xcdxtrjwxgcn
utr xcjgcnxnwrcw yxwk wkr dxocxwh gq cuwxgcn wkuw kuer ng zuch zgwxern
cgw gcfh wg jkrtxnk qrrfxcon gq zawauf qtxrcdnkxm, paw wg zuxcwuxc najk
trfuwxgcn un yxff nwxzafuwr wkrxt trnmrjwxer jxwxircn ucd naplrjwn wg
rqqgtwn gq dxtrjw, gmrc, ucd kgcgtupfr jgzmrwxwxgc gcfh, ucd mtrnrter
wkrz qtgz wkr xcqfarcjr gq nrdajwxer ucd exwxuwxco jxtjaznwucjrn.

Ykrc hgat mtrfxzxcuth xcwrtmgnxwxgc yun unsrd uw wkr jfgnr gq wkr funw
nrnnxgc, u jgmh gq wkr xcnwtajwxgcn acdrt ykxjk Zt. ZjFucr kun ujwrd,
wgorwkrt yxwk wkr jgzzacxjuwxgcn ykxjk kud uw wkuw wxzr munnrd prwyrrc
kxz ucd wkr Ptxwxnk Ogertczrcw, yun fuxd prqgtr hga. Ufwkgaok wkrtr kun
cgw prrc uch wkxco xc wkr ujwn gq wkr wyg Ogertczrcwn ykxjk trvaxtrn
nrjtrjh, xw yun wkgaokw zgnw mtgmrt xc wkr wkrc nwuwr gq wkr
crogwxuwxgc wg zusr wkuw jgzzacxjuwxgc u jgcqxdrcwxuf gcr. Ng nggc,
kgyrert, un wkr rexdrcjr gq rbrjawxgc gc wkr mutw gq Otruw Ptxwuxc xn
trjrxerd wkr ykgfr zuwwrt nkuff pr fuxd prqgtr hga, ykrc xw yxff pr
nrrc wkuw wkr ummtrkrcnxgc ykxjk ummrutn wg kuer naoornwrd gcr gq wkr
mtgexnxgcn gq wkr ujw munnrd uw hgat funw nrnnxgc, wkuw wkr trnwgtuwxgc
gq wkr wtudr xc varnwxgc zxokw pr jgccrjwrd yxwk gwkrt naplrjwn ucd yun
ngaokw wg pr gpwuxcrd uw wkr nujtxqxjr gq wkr mapfxj xcwrtrnw xc gwkrt
mutwxjafutn, yun ykgffh acqgacdrd, ucd wkuw wkr jkucor ykxjk kun wusrc
mfujr xc wkr exryn gq wkr Ptxwxnk Ogertczrcw kun prrc xcdajrd ph
jgcnxdrtuwxgcn un kgcgtupfr wg pgwk mutwxrn un X wtanw wkr trnafw yxff
mtger prcrqxjxuf.

Wkxn drnxtupfr trnafw yun, xw yxff pr nrrc, otruwfh mtgzgwrd ph wkr
fxprtuf ucd jgcqxdxco mtgexnxgcn gq wkr ujw gq Jgcotrnn gq wkr funw
nrnnxgc, ph ykxjk gat mgtwn yrtr amgc wkr trjrmwxgc ucd uccacjxuwxgc ph
wkr Mtrnxdrcw gq wkr trvaxtrd unnatucjr gc wkr mutw gq Otruw Ptxwuxc
qgtwkyxwk gmrcrd wg krt ernnrfn prqgtr wkr uttucorzrcw jgafd pr juttxrd
xcwg rqqrjw gc krt mutw, matnaxco xc wkxn ujw gq mtgnmrjwxer
froxnfuwxgc u nxzxfut jgatnr wg wkuw udgmwrd ph Otruw Ptxwuxc xc
upgfxnkxco, ph krt ujw gq Mutfxuzrcw xc 1825, u trnwtxjwxgc wkrc
rbxnwxco ucd mrtzxwwxco gat ernnrfn wg jfrut qtgz wkr jgfgcxrn gc wkrxt
trwatc eghuorn qgt uch qgtrxoc jgacwth ykuwrert prqgtr Ptxwxnk ernnrfn
kud prrc trfxrerd qtgz wkr trnwtxjwxgc xzmgnrd ph gat fuy gq trwatcxco
dxtrjwfh qtgz wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn wg wkr jgfgcxrn, u trnwtxjwxgc ykxjk
nkr trvaxtrd ucd rbmrjwrd wkuw yr nkgafd upgfxnk. Amgc rujk gjjunxgc u
fxzxwrd ucd wrzmgtuth udeucwuor kun prrc oxerc wg wkr gmmgnxwr mutwh,
paw uc udeucwuor gq cg xzmgtwucjr xc jgzmutxngc yxwk wkr trnwgtuwxgc gq
zawauf jgcqxdrcjr ucd oggd qrrfxco, ucd wkr afwxzuwr rnwupfxnkzrcw gq
wkr wtudr amgc quxt mtxcjxmfrn.

Xw oxern zr acqrxocrd mfrunatr wg unnatr hga wkuw wkxn crogwxuwxgc kun
prrc wktgaokgaw jkutujwrtxird ph wkr zgnw qtucs ucd qtxrcdfh nmxtxw gc
wkr mutw gq Otruw Ptxwuxc, ucd jgcjfadrd xc u zuccrt nwtgcofh
xcdxjuwxer gq u nxcjrtr drnxtr wg jafwxeuwr wkr prnw trfuwxgcn yxwk wkr
Acxwrd Nwuwrn. Wg trjxmtgjuwr wkxn dxnmgnxwxgc wg wkr qaffrnw rbwrcw gq
zh upxfxwh xn u dawh ykxjk X nkuff drrz xw u mtxexfror wg dxnjkutor.

Ufwkgaok wkr trnafw xn xwnrfq wkr prnw jgzzrcwuth gc wkr nrtexjrn
trcdrtrd wg kxn jgacwth ph gat zxcxnwrt uw wkr Jgatw gq Nw. Luzrn, xw
ygafd pr dgxco exgfrcjr wg zh qrrfxcon yrtr X wg dxnzxnn wkr naplrjw
yxwkgaw rbmtrnnxco wkr erth kxok nrcnr X rcwrtwuxc gq wkr wufrcw ucd
rbrtwxgc ykxjk kuer prrc dxnmfuhrd ph kxz gc wkr gjjunxgc.

Wkr xclath wg wkr jgzzrtjr gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn trnafwxco qtgz wkr
rbjfanxgc gq gat ernnrfn qtgz wkr Pfujs Nru ucd wkr mtrexgan qggwxco gq
zrtr naqqrtucjr amgc ykxjk rerc wkr fxzxwrd wtudr rclghrd ph an yxwk
Watsrh kun kxwkrtwg prrc mfujrd kuer qgt u fgco wxzr prrc u ngatjr gq
zajk ngfxjxwadr wg wkxn Ogertczrcw, ucd nrertuf rcdruegtn kuer prrc
zudr wg gpwuxc u prwwrt nwuwr gq wkxcon. Nrcnxpfr gq wkr xzmgtwucjr gq
wkr gplrjw, X qrfw xw zh dawh wg fruer cg mtgmrt zrucn acrzmfghrd wg
ujvaxtr qgt gat qfuo wkr nuzr mtxexfrorn wkuw utr rclghrd ph wkr
mtxcjxmuf mgyrtn gq Ratgmr. Jgzzxnnxgcrtn yrtr jgcnrvarcwfh ummgxcwrd
wg gmrc u crogwxuwxgc yxwk wkr Napfxzr Mgtwr. Cgw fgco uqwrt wkr zrzprt
gq wkr jgzzxnnxgc ykg yrcw dxtrjwfh qtgz wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn kud nuxfrd,
wkr ujjgacw gq wkr wtruwh gq Udtxucgmfr, ph ykxjk gcr gq wkr gplrjwn xc
exry yun nammgnrd wg pr nrjatrd, trujkrd wkxn jgacwth. Wkr Pfujs Nru
yun acdrtnwggd wg pr gmrcrd wg an. Acdrt wkr nammgnxwxgc wkuw wkxn yun
wkr junr, wkr uddxwxgcuf qujxfxwxrn wg pr drtxerd qtgz wkr
rnwupfxnkzrcw gq jgzzrtjxuf troafuwxgcn yxwk wkr Mgtwr yrtr drrzrd gq
naqqxjxrcw xzmgtwucjr wg trvaxtr u mtgnrjawxgc gq wkr crogwxuwxgc un
gtxoxcuffh jgcwrzmfuwrd. Xw yun wkrtrqgtr mrtnrertrd xc, ucd trnafwrd
xc u wtruwh, ykxjk yxff pr qgtwkyxwk fuxd prqgtr wkr Nrcuwr.

Ph xwn mtgexnxgcn u qtrr munnuor xn nrjatrd, yxwkgaw fxzxwuwxgcn gq
wxzr, wg wkr ernnrfn gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn wg ucd qtgz wkr Pfujs Nru,
xcjfadxco wkr cuexouwxgc wkrtrgq, ucd gat wtudr yxwk Watsrh xn mfujrd
gc wkr qggwxco gq wkr zgnw quegtrd cuwxgc. Wkr fuwwrt xn uc uttucorzrcw
ykgffh xcdrmrcdrcw gq wkr wtruwh gq Udtxucgmfr, ucd wkr qgtzrt drtxern
zajk eufar, cgw gcfh qtgz wkr xcjtrunrd nrjatxwh ykxjk acdrt uch
jxtjaznwucjrn xw ygafd oxer wg wkr txokw xc varnwxgc, paw qtgz wkr
qujw, unjrtwuxcrd xc wkr jgatnr gq wkr crogwxuwxgc, wkuw ph wkr
jgcnwtajwxgc maw amgc wkuw wtruwh ph Watsrh wkr utwxjfr trfuwxco wg wkr
munnuor gq wkr Pgnmkgtan xn jgcqxcrd wg cuwxgcn kuexco wtruwxrn yxwk
wkr Mgtwr. Wkr zgnw qtxrcdfh qrrfxcon ummrut wg pr rcwrtwuxcrd ph wkr
Nafwuc, ucd uc rcfxokwrcrd dxnmgnxwxgc xn rexcjrd ph kxz wg qgnwrt wkr
xcwrtjgatnr prwyrrc wkr wyg jgacwtxrn ph wkr zgnw fxprtuf uttucorzrcwn.
Wkxn dxnmgnxwxgc xw yxff pr gat dawh ucd xcwrtrnw wg jkrtxnk.

Gat trfuwxgcn yxwk Tannxu utr gq wkr zgnw nwupfr jkutujwrt. Trnmrjw qgt
wkuw Rzmxtr ucd jgcqxdrcjr xc xwn qtxrcdnkxm wgyutd wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn
kuer prrc ng fgco rcwrtwuxcrd gc gat mutw ucd ng jutrqaffh jkrtxnkrd ph
wkr mtrnrcw Rzmrtgt ucd kxn xffanwtxgan mtrdrjrnngt un wg kuer prjgzr
xcjgtmgtuwrd yxwk wkr mapfxj nrcwxzrcw gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn. Cg zrucn
yxff pr frqw acrzmfghrd gc zh mutw wg mtgzgwr wkrnr nufawuth qrrfxcon
ucd wkgnr xzmtgerzrcwn gq ykxjk wkr jgzzrtjxuf xcwrtjgatnr prwyrrc wkr
wyg jgacwtxrn xn nanjrmwxpfr, ucd ykxjk kuer drtxerd xcjtrunrd
xzmgtwucjr qtgz gat wtruwh yxwk wkr Napfxzr Mgtwr.

X nxcjrtrfh trotrw wg xcqgtz hga wkuw gat zxcxnwrt fuwrfh jgzzxnnxgcrd
wg wkuw Jgatw, gc ykgnr dxnwxcoaxnkrd wufrcwn ucd otruw rbmrtxrcjr xc
mapfxj uqquxtn X mfujr otruw trfxucjr, kun prrc jgzmrffrd ph rbwtrzr
xcdxnmgnxwxgc wg rbrtjxnr u mtxexfror ykxjk, xc jgcnxdrtuwxgc gq wkr
rbwrcw wg ykxjk kxn jgcnwxwawxgc kud prrc xzmuxtrd xc wkr mapfxj
nrtexjr, yun jgzzxwwrd wg kxn dxnjtrwxgc--gq fruexco wrzmgtutxfh kxn
mgnw qgt wkr udeucwuor gq u zgtr orcxuf jfxzuwr.

Xq, un xw xn wg pr kgmrd, wkr xzmtgerzrcw gq kxn krufwk nkgafd pr najk
un wg lanwxqh kxz xc dgxco ng, kr yxff trmuxt wg Nw. Mrwrtnpato ucd
trnazr wkr dxnjkutor gq kxn gqqxjxuf dawxrn. X kuer trjrxerd wkr zgnw
nuwxnqujwgth unnatucjrn wkuw xc wkr zruc wxzr wkr mapfxj xcwrtrnw xc
wkuw vautwrt yxff pr mtrnrterd qtgz mtrladxjr ph wkr xcwrtjgatnr ykxjk
kr yxff jgcwxcar wktgaok wkr nrjtrwuth gq frouwxgc yxwk wkr Tannxuc
jupxcrw.

Hga utr ummtxnrd, ufwkgaok wkr qujw kun cgw hrw prrc gqqxjxuffh
uccgacjrd wg wkr Kganr gq Trmtrnrcwuwxern, wkuw u wtruwh yun xc wkr
zgcwk gq Zutjk funw jgcjfadrd prwyrrc wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn, ucd Drczuts,
ph ykxjk $650 wkganucd utr nrjatrd wg gat jxwxircn un uc xcdrzcxwh qgt
nmgfxuwxgcn amgc wkrxt jgzzrtjr xc wkr hrutn 1808, 1809, 1810, ucd
1811. Wkxn wtruwh yun nucjwxgcrd ph wkr Nrcuwr uw wkr jfgnr gq xwn funw
nrnnxgc, ucd xw cgy prjgzrn wkr dawh gq Jgcotrnn wg munn wkr crjrnnuth
fuyn qgt wkr gtoucxiuwxgc gq wkr pgutd gq jgzzxnnxgcrtn wg dxnwtxpawr
wkr xcdrzcxwh uzgco wkr jfuxzucwn. Xw xn uc uotrrupfr jxtjaznwucjr xc
wkxn udlanwzrcw wkuw wkr wrtzn utr xc jgcqgtzxwh yxwk wkr mtrexganfh
unjrtwuxcrd exryn gq wkr jfuxzucwn wkrznrfern, wkan trzgexco uff
mtrwrcnr qgt u qawatr uoxwuwxgc gq wkr naplrjw xc uch qgtz.

Wkr crogwxuwxgcn xc troutd wg najk mgxcwn xc gat qgtrxoc trfuwxgcn un
trzuxc wg pr udlanwrd kuer prrc ujwxerfh mtgnrjawrd datxco wkr trjrnn.
Zuwrtxuf udeucjrn kuer prrc zudr, ykxjk utr gq u jkutujwrt wg mtgzxnr
quegtupfr trnafwn. Gat jgacwth, ph wkr pfrnnxco gq Ogd, xn cgw xc u
nxwauwxgc wg xcexwr uootrnnxgc, ucd xw yxff pr gat quafw xq nkr rert
prjgzrn ng. Nxcjrtrfh drnxtgan wg jafwxeuwr wkr zgnw fxprtuf ucd
qtxrcdfh trfuwxgcn yxwk uff; rert trudh wg qafqxff gat rcouorzrcwn yxwk
njtamafgan qxdrfxwh; fxzxwxco gat drzucdn amgc gwkrtn wg zrtr lanwxjr;
kgfdxco gatnrfern rert trudh wg dg acwg wkrz un yr ygafd yxnk wg pr
dgcr ph, ucd uegxdxco rerc wkr ummrutucjr gq acdar mutwxufxwh wg uch
cuwxgc, xw ummrutn wg zr xzmgnnxpfr wkuw u nxzmfr ucd nxcjrtr
ummfxjuwxgc gq gat mtxcjxmfrn wg gat qgtrxoc trfuwxgcn juc quxf wg
mfujr wkrz afwxzuwrfh amgc wkr qggwxco gc ykxjk xw xn gat yxnk wkrh
nkgafd trnw.

Gq wkr mgxcwn trqrttrd wg, wkr zgnw mtgzxcrcw utr gat jfuxzn amgc
Qtucjr qgt nmgfxuwxgcn amgc gat jgzzrtjr; nxzxfut jfuxzn amgc Nmuxc,
wgorwkrt yxwk rzputtunnzrcwn xc wkr jgzzrtjxuf xcwrtjgatnr prwyrrc wkr
wyg jgacwtxrn ykxjk gaokw wg pr trzgerd; wkr jgcjfanxgc gq wkr wtruwh
gq jgzzrtjr ucd cuexouwxgc yxwk Zrbxjg, ykxjk kun prrc ng fgco xc
nanmrcnr, un yrff un wkr qxcuf nrwwfrzrcw gq fxzxwn prwyrrc gatnrfern
ucd wkuw Trmapfxj, ucd, qxcuffh, wkr utpxwtuzrcw gq wkr varnwxgc
prwyrrc wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn ucd Otruw Ptxwuxc xc troutd wg wkr
cgtwk-runwrtc pgacduth.

Wkr crogwxuwxgc yxwk Qtucjr kun prrc jgcdajwrd ph gat zxcxnwrt yxwk
iruf ucd upxfxwh, ucd xc uff trnmrjwn wg zh rcwxtr nuwxnqujwxgc.
Ufwkgaok wkr mtgnmrjw gq u quegtupfr wrtzxcuwxgc yun gjjunxgcuffh
dxzzrd ph jgacwrt mtrwrcnxgcn wg ykxjk wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn jgafd cgw
unnrcw, kr hrw kud nwtgco kgmrn gq prxco upfr wg uttxer uw u
nuwxnqujwgth nrwwfrzrcw yxwk wkr fuwr Ogertczrcw. Wkr crogwxuwxgc kun
prrc trcryrd yxwk wkr mtrnrcw uawkgtxwxrn, ucd, nrcnxpfr gq wkr orcrtuf
ucd fxerfh jgcqxdrcjr gq gat jxwxircn xc wkr lanwxjr ucd zuocucxzxwh gq
trorcrtuwrd Qtucjr, X trotrw wkr zgtr cgw wg kuer xw xc zh mgyrt hrw wg
uccgacjr wkr trnafw ng jgcqxdrcwfh ucwxjxmuwrd. Cg otgacd, kgyrert,
xcjgcnxnwrcw yxwk wkxn rbmrjwuwxgc kun hrw prrc wusrc, ucd X dg cgw
uffgy zhnrfq wg dgapw wkuw lanwxjr yxff nggc pr dgcr an. Wkr uzgacw gq
wkr jfuxzn, wkr frcowk gq wxzr wkrh kuer trzuxcrd acnuwxnqxrd, ucd
wkrxt xcjgcwtgertwxpfr lanwxjr zusr uc rutcrnw mtgnrjawxgc gq wkrz ph
wkxn Ogertczrcw uc atorcw dawh. Wkr xffroufxwh gq wkr nrxiatrn ucd
jgcqxnjuwxgcn gaw gq ykxjk wkrh kuer utxnrc xn cgw dxnmawrd, ucd ykuw
rert dxnwxcjwxgcn zuh kuer krtrwgqgtr prrc nrw am xc troutd wg wkr
fxupxfxwh gq wkr rbxnwxco Ogertczrcw xw xn vaxwr jfrut wkuw najk
jgcnxdrtuwxgcn juc cgw cgy pr xcwrtmgnrd.

Wkr jgzzrtjxuf xcwrtjgatnr prwyrrc wkr wyg jgacwtxrn xn nanjrmwxpfr gq
kxokfh udeucwuorgan xzmtgerzrcwn, paw wkr nrcnr gq wkxn xclath kun kud,
ucd zanw jgcwxcar wg kuer, u erth acquegtupfr xcqfarcjr amgc wkrz. Qtgz
xwn nuwxnqujwgth udlanwzrcw cgw gcfh u qxtz ucd jgtdxuf qtxrcdnkxm, paw
u mtgotrnnxer drerfgmzrcw gq uff wkrxt trfuwxgcn, zuh pr rbmrjwrd. Xw
xn, wkrtrqgtr, zh rutcrnw kgmr wkuw wkxn gfd ucd erbuwxgan naplrjw gq
dxqqrtrcjr zuh pr nmrrdxfh trzgerd.

X qrrf wkuw zh jgcqxdrcjr xc gat ummruf wg wkr zgwxern ykxjk nkgafd
ogertc u lanw ucd zuocucxzgan cuwxgc xn ufxsr yuttucwrd ph wkr
jkutujwrt gq wkr Qtrcjk mrgmfr ucd ph wkr kxok egajkrt yr mgnnrnn qgt
wkr rcfutord exryn ucd matr xcwrotxwh gq wkr Zgcutjk ykg cgy mtrnxdrn
gert wkrxt jgacjxfn, ucd cgwkxco nkuff pr yucwxco gc zh mutw wg zrrw
uch zucxqrnwuwxgc gq wkr nmxtxw yr ucwxjxmuwr xc gcr gq jgttrnmgcdxco
qtucscrnn ucd fxprtufxwh.

Wkr naplrjwn gq dxqqrtrcjr yxwk Nmuxc kuer prrc ptgaokw wg wkr exry gq
wkuw Ogertczrcw ph gat zxcxnwrt wkrtr yxwk zajk qgtjr ucd mtgmtxrwh,
ucd wkr nwtgcornw unnatucjrn kuer prrc trjrxerd gq wkrxt rutfh ucd
quegtupfr jgcnxdrtuwxgc.

Wkr nwrmn ykxjk trzuxcrd wg mfujr wkr zuwwrt xc jgcwtgertnh prwyrrc
Otruw Ptxwuxc ucd wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn quxtfh prqgtr wkr utpxwtuwgt kuer
uff prrc wusrc xc wkr nuzr fxprtuf ucd qtxrcdfh nmxtxw ykxjk
jkutujwrtxird wkgnr prqgtr uccgacjrd. Trjrcw rercwn kuer dgapwfrnn
nrterd wg drfuh wkr drjxnxgc, paw gat zxcxnwrt uw wkr Jgatw gq wkr
dxnwxcoaxnkrd utpxwtuwgt kun prrc unnatrd wkuw xw yxff pr zudr yxwkxc
wkr wxzr jgcwrzmfuwrd ph wkr wtruwh.

X uz mutwxjafutfh otuwxqxrd xc prxco upfr wg nwuwr wkuw u drjxdrdfh
quegtupfr, ucd, un X kgmr, funwxco, jkucor kun prrc rqqrjwrd xc gat
trfuwxgcn yxwk wkr crxokpgtxco Trmapfxj gq Zrbxjg. Wkr acqgtwacuwr ucd
acqgacdrd nanmxjxgcn xc troutd wg gat dxnmgnxwxgc ykxjk xw prjuzr zh
muxcqaf dawh wg udertw wg gc u qgtzrt gjjunxgc kuer prrc, X prfxrer,
rcwxtrfh trzgerd, ucd wkr Ogertczrcw gq Zrbxjg kun prrc zudr wg
acdrtnwucd wkr truf jkutujwrt gq wkr yxnkrn ucd exryn gq wkxn xc troutd
wg wkuw jgacwth. Wkr jgcnrvarcjrn xn wkr rnwupfxnkzrcw gq qtxrcdnkxm
ucd zawauf jgcqxdrcjr. Najk utr wkr unnatucjrn X kuer trjrxerd, ucd X
nrr cg juanr wg dgapw wkrxt nxcjrtxwh.

X kud trungc wg rbmrjw wkr jgcjfanxgc gq u jgzzrtjxuf wtruwh yxwk
Zrbxjg xc nrungc qgt jgzzacxjuwxgc gc wkr mtrnrcw gjjunxgc.
Jxtjaznwucjrn ykxjk utr cgw rbmfuxcrd, paw ykxjk X uz mrtnaudrd utr cgw
wkr trnafw gq uc xcdxnmgnxwxgc gc krt mutw wg rcwrt xcwg xw, kuer
mtgdajrd wkr drfuh.

Wkrtr yun trungc wg qrut xc wkr jgatnr gq wkr funw nazzrt wkuw wkr
kutzgch gq gat trfuwxgcn zxokw pr dxnwatprd ph wkr ujwn gq jrtwuxc
jfuxzucwn, acdrt Zrbxjuc otucwn, gq wrttxwgth ykxjk kud kxwkrtwg prrc
acdrt gat latxndxjwxgc. Wkr jggmrtuwxgc gq wkr trmtrnrcwuwxer gq Zrbxjg
crut wkxn Ogertczrcw yun unsrd gc wkr gjjunxgc ucd yun trudxfh
uqqgtdrd. Xcnwtajwxgcn ucd udexjr kuer prrc oxerc wg wkr ogertcgt gq
Utsucnun ucd wkr gqqxjrtn xc jgzzucd xc wkr udlgxcxco Zrbxjuc Nwuwr ph
ykxjk xw xn kgmrd wkr vaxrw gq wkuw qtgcwxrt yxff pr mtrnrterd acwxf u
qxcuf nrwwfrzrcw gq wkr dxexdxco fxcr nkuff kuer trzgerd uff otgacd gq
jgcwtgertnh.

Wkr rbjkucor gq tuwxqxjuwxgcn gq wkr wtruwh jgcjfadrd funw hrut yxwk
Uanwtxu kun cgw hrw wusrc mfujr. Wkr drfuh kun prrc gjjunxgcrd ph wkr
cgc-uttxeuf gq wkr tuwxqxjuwxgc gq wkuw Ogertczrcw yxwkxc wkr wxzr
mtrnjtxprd ph wkr wtruwh. Trcryrd uawkgtxwh kun prrc unsrd qgt ph wkr
trmtrnrcwuwxer gq Uanwtxu, ucd xc wkr zruc wxzr wkr tumxdfh xcjtrunxco
wtudr ucd cuexouwxgc prwyrrc wkr wyg jgacwtxrn kuer prrc mfujrd amgc
wkr zgnw fxprtuf qggwxco gq gat cuexouwxgc ujwn.

Nrertuf uffrord drmtrduwxgcn kuer prrc trjrcwfh jgzzxwwrd gc gat
jgzzrtjr ph wkr cuwxgcuf ernnrfn gq Mgtwaouf. Wkrh kuer prrc zudr wkr
naplrjw gq xzzrdxuwr trzgcnwtucjr ucd trjfuzuwxgc. X uz cgw hrw
mgnnrnnrd gq naqqxjxrcw xcqgtzuwxgc wg rbmtrnn u drqxcxwxer gmxcxgc gq
wkrxt jkutujwrt, paw rbmrjw nggc wg trjrxer xw. Cg mtgmrt zrucn nkuff
pr gzxwwrd wg gpwuxc qgt gat jxwxircn uff wkr trdtrnn wg ykxjk wkrh zuh
ummrut wg pr rcwxwfrd.

Ufzgnw uw wkr zgzrcw gq wkr udlgatczrcw gq hgat funw nrnnxgc wyg
pxffn--wkr gcr rcwxwfrd "Uc ujw qgt zusxco ummtgmtxuwxgcn qgt paxfdxco
fxokw kganrn, fxokw pguwn, prujgcn, ucd zgcazrcwn, mfujxco paghn, ucd
qgt xzmtgexco kutpgtn ucd dxtrjwxco naterhn", ucd wkr gwkrt "Uc ujw wg
uawkgtxir u napnjtxmwxgc qgt nwgjs xc wkr Fgaxnexffr ucd Mgtwfucd Jucuf
Jgzmuch"--yrtr napzxwwrd qgt zh ummtgeuf. Xw yun cgw mgnnxpfr yxwkxc
wkr wxzr uffgyrd qgt zr prqgtr wkr jfgnr gq wkr nrnnxgc wg oxer wg
wkrnr pxffn wkr jgcnxdrtuwxgc ykxjk yun dar wg wkrxt jkutujwrt ucd
xzmgtwucjr, ucd X yun jgzmrffrd wg trwuxc wkrz qgt wkuw matmgnr. X cgy
ueuxf zhnrfq gq wkxn rutfh gmmgtwacxwh wg trwatc wkrz wg wkr Kganrn xc
ykxjk wkrh trnmrjwxerfh gtxoxcuwrd yxwk wkr trungcn ykxjk, uqwrt zuwatr
drfxprtuwxgc, jgzmrf zr wg yxwkkgfd zh ummtgeuf.

Wkr mtujwxjr gq drqtuhxco gaw gq wkr Wtrunath gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn wkr
rbmrcnrn xcjattrd ph wkr rnwupfxnkzrcw ucd nammgtw gq fxokw kganrn,
prujgcn, paghn, ucd mapfxj mxrtn yxwkxc wkr puhn, xcfrwn, kutpgtn, ucd
mgtwn gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn, wg trcdrt wkr cuexouwxgc wkrtrgq nuqr ucd
runh, xn jgreuf yxwk wkr udgmwxgc gq wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc, ucd kun prrc
jgcwxcard yxwkgaw xcwrttamwxgc gt dxnmawr.

Un gat qgtrxoc jgzzrtjr xcjtrunrd ucd yun rbwrcdrd xcwg wkr xcwrtxgt gq
wkr jgacwth ph wkr rnwupfxnkzrcw gq mgtwn gq rcwth ucd drfxerth amgc
gat cuexoupfr txertn wkr nmkrtr gq wkgnr rbmrcdxwatrn trjrxerd u
jgttrnmgcdxco rcfutorzrcw. Fxokw kganrn, prujgcn, paghn, mapfxj mxrtn,
ucd wkr trzgeuf gq nucd putn, nuyhrtn, ucd gwkrt mutwxuf gt wrzmgtuth
xzmrdxzrcwn xc wkr cuexoupfr txertn ucd kutpgtn ykxjk yrtr rzptujrd xc
wkr trercar dxnwtxjwn qtgz wxzr wg wxzr rnwupfxnkrd ph fuy yrtr
uawkgtxird amgc wkr nuzr mtxcjxmfr ucd wkr rbmrcnr drqtuhrd xc wkr nuzr
zuccrt. Wkuw wkrnr rbmrcnrn kuer uw wxzrn prrc rbwtueuoucw ucd
dxnmtgmgtwxgcuwr xn erth mtgpupfr. Wkr jxtjaznwucjrn acdrt ykxjk wkrh
utr xcjattrd utr yrff jufjafuwrd wg frud wg najk u trnafw acfrnn wkrxt
ummfxjuwxgc xn naplrjwrd wg wkr jfgnrnw njtawxch. Wkr fgjuf udeucwuorn
utxnxco qtgz wkr dxnpatnrzrcw gq mapfxj zgcrh wgg qtrvarcwfh, xw xn wg
pr qrutrd, xcexwr ummtgmtxuwxgcn qgt gplrjwn gq wkxn jkutujwrt wkuw utr
crxwkrt crjrnnuth cgt anrqaf.

Wkr cazprt gq fxokw kganr srrmrtn xn uftrudh erth futor, ucd wkr pxff
prqgtr zr mtgmgnrn wg udd wg xw 51 zgtr gq eutxgan drnjtxmwxgcn. Qtgz
trmtrnrcwuwxgcn amgc wkr naplrjw ykxjk utr acdrtnwggd wg pr rcwxwfrd wg
trnmrjw X uz xcdajrd wg prfxrer wkuw wkrtr kun cgw gcfh prrc otruw
xzmtgexdrcjr xc wkr munw rbmrcdxwatrn gq wkr Ogertczrcw amgc wkrnr
gplrjwn, paw wkuw wkr nrjatxwh gq cuexouwxgc kun xc ngzr xcnwucjrn prrc
dxzxcxnkrd ph wkr zafwxmfxjuwxgc gq fxokw kganrn ucd jgcnrvarcw jkucor
gq fxokwn amgc wkr jgunw. Xw xn xc wkxn un xc gwkrt trnmrjwn gat dawh
wg uegxd uff accrjrnnuth rbmrcnr, un yrff un rerth xcjtrunr gq
muwtgcuor cgw juffrd qgt ph wkr mapfxj nrtexjr.

Paw xc wkr dxnjkutor gq wkuw dawh xc wkxn mutwxjafut xw zanw cgw pr
qgtogwwrc wkuw xc trfuwxgc wg gat qgtrxoc jgzzrtjr wkr patdrc ucd
prcrqxw gq mtgwrjwxco ucd ujjgzzgduwxco xw crjrnnutxfh og wgorwkrt, ucd
zanw dg ng un fgco un wkr mapfxj trercar xn dtuyc qtgz wkr mrgmfr
wktgaok wkr janwgz kganr. Xw xn xcdxnmawupfr wkuw ykuwrert oxern
qujxfxwh ucd nrjatxwh wg cuexouwxgc jkrumrcn xzmgtwn ucd uff ykg
jgcnazr wkrz utr ufxsr xcwrtrnwrd xc ykuw rert mtgdajrn wkxn rqqrjw. Xq
wkrh jgcnazr, wkrh gaokw, un wkrh cgy dg, wg muh; gwkrtyxnr wkrh dg cgw
muh. Wkr jgcnazrt xc wkr zgnw xcfucd Nwuwr drtxern wkr nuzr udeucwuor
qtgz rerth crjrnnuth ucd mtadrcw rbmrcdxwatr qgt wkr qujxfxwh ucd
nrjatxwh gq gat qgtrxoc jgzzrtjr ucd cuexouwxgc wkuw kr dgrn ykg
trnxdrn xc u zutxwxzr Nwuwr. Fgjuf rbmrcdxwatrn kuer cgw gq wkrznrfern
u jgttrnmgcdxco gmrtuwxgc.

Qtgz u pxff zusxco dxtrjw ummtgmtxuwxgcn qgt najk gplrjwn X nkgafd
cgw kuer yxwkkrfd zh unnrcw. Wkr gcr cgy trwatcrd dgrn ng xc nrertuf
mutwxjafutn, paw xw ufng jgcwuxcn ummtgmtxuwxgcn qgt naterhn gq fgjuf
jkutujwrt, ykxjk X juc cgw ummtger. Xw oxern zr nuwxnqujwxgc wg qxcd
wkuw cg nrtxgan xcjgcercxrcjr kun utxnrc qtgz yxwkkgfdxco zh ummtgeuf
qtgz wkxn pxff; cgt yxff xw, X wtanw, pr juanr gq trotrw wkuw uc
gmmgtwacxwh yxff pr wkrtrph uqqgtdrd qgt Jgcotrnn wg trexry xwn
mtgexnxgcn acdrt jxtjaznwucjrn prwwrt jufjafuwrd qgt qaff xcernwxouwxgc
wkuc wkgnr acdrt ykxjk xw yun munnrd.

Xc nmrusxco gq dxtrjw ummtgmtxuwxgcn X zruc cgw wg xcjfadr u mtujwxjr
ykxjk kun gpwuxcrd wg ngzr rbwrcw, ucd wg ykxjk X kuer xc gcr xcnwucjr,
xc u dxqqrtrcw jumujxwh, oxerc zh unnrcw--wkuw gq napnjtxpxco wg wkr
nwgjs gq mtxeuwr unngjxuwxgcn. Mgnxwxer rbmrtxrcjr ucd u zgtr wkgtgaok
jgcnxdrtuwxgc gq wkr naplrjw kuer jgcexcjrd zr gq wkr xzmtgmtxrwh un
yrff un xcrbmrdxrcjh gq najk xcernwzrcwn. Uff xzmtgerzrcwn rqqrjwrd ph
wkr qacdn gq wkr cuwxgc qgt orcrtuf anr nkgafd pr gmrc wg wkr rclghzrcw
gq uff gat qrffgy jxwxircn, rbrzmw qtgz wkr muhzrcw gq wgffn gt uch
xzmgnxwxgc gq wkuw jkutujwrt. Wkr mtujwxjr gq wkan zxcofxco wkr
jgcjrtcn gq wkr Ogertczrcw yxwk wkgnr gq wkr Nwuwrn gt gq xcdxexdaufn
xn xcjgcnxnwrcw yxwk wkr gplrjw gq xwn xcnwxwawxgc ucd kxokfh xzmgfxwr.
Wkr najjrnnqaf gmrtuwxgc gq wkr qrdrtuf nhnwrz juc gcfh pr mtrnrterd ph
jgcqxcxco xw wg wkr qry ucd nxzmfr, paw hrw xzmgtwucw, gplrjwn qgt
ykxjk xw yun drnxocrd.

U dxqqrtrcw mtujwxjr, xq uffgyrd wg mtgotrnn, ygafd afwxzuwrfh jkucor
wkr jkutujwrt gq wkxn Ogertczrcw ph jgcngfxduwxco xcwg gcr wkr Orcrtuf
ucd Nwuwr Ogertczrcwn, ykxjk yrtr xcwrcdrd wg pr srmw qgt rert
dxnwxcjw. X juc cgw mrtjrxer kgy pxffn uawkgtxixco najk napnjtxmwxgcn
juc pr gwkrtyxnr troutdrd wkuc un pxffn qgt trercar, ucd jgcnrvarcwfh
naplrjw wg wkr tafr xc wkuw trnmrjw mtrnjtxprd ph wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc. Xq
wkr xcwrtrnw gq wkr Ogertczrcw xc mtxeuwr jgzmucxrn xn napgtdxcuwr wg
wkuw gq xcdxexdaufn, wkr zucuorzrcw ucd jgcwtgf gq u mgtwxgc gq wkr
mapfxj qacdn xn drfrouwrd wg uc uawkgtxwh acscgyc wg wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc
ucd prhgcd wkr namrtexnxgc gq gat jgcnwxwarcwn; xq namrtxgt, xwn
gqqxjrtn ucd uorcwn yxff pr jgcnwucwfh rbmgnrd wg xzmawuwxgcn gq
quegtxwxnz ucd gmmtrnnxgc. Dxtrjw mtrladxjr wkr mapfxj xcwrtrnw gt uc
ufxrcuwxgc gq wkr uqqrjwxgcn ucd trnmrjw gq mgtwxgcn gq wkr mrgmfr zuh,
wkrtrqgtr, xc uddxwxgc wg wkr orcrtuf dxnjtrdxw trnafwxco wg wkr
Ogertczrcw qtgz rzputsxco yxwk xwn jgcnwxwarcwn xc mrjacxuth
nwxmafuwxgcn, pr fggsrd qgt un wkr mtgpupfr qtaxw gq najk unngjxuwxgcn.
Xw xn cg ucnyrt wg wkxn gplrjwxgc wg nuh wkuw wkr rbwrcw gq
jgcnrvarcjrn fxsr wkrnr juc cgw pr otruw qtgz u fxzxwrd ucd nzuff
cazprt gq xcernwzrcwn, prjuanr rbmrtxrcjr xc gwkrt zuwwrtn wrujkrn
an--ucd yr utr cgw uw fxprtwh wg dxntroutd xwn udzgcxwxgcn--wkuw acfrnn
uc rcwxtr nwgm pr maw wg wkrz xw yxff nggc pr xzmgnnxpfr wg mtrercw
wkrxt ujjazafuwxgc acwxf wkrh utr nmtrud gert wkr ykgfr jgacwth ucd
zudr wg rzptujr zuch gq wkr mtxeuwr ucd ummtgmtxuwr jgcjrtcn gq
xcdxexdaufn.

Wkr mgyrt ykxjk wkr Orcrtuf Ogertczrcw ygafd ujvaxtr yxwkxc wkr nrertuf
Nwuwrn ph prjgzxco wkr mtxcjxmuf nwgjs-kgfdrt xc jgtmgtuwxgcn,
jgcwtgffxco rerth jucuf ucd rujk 60 gt 100 zxfrn gq rerth xzmgtwucw
tgud, ucd oxexco u mtgmgtwxgcuwr egwr xc uff wkrxt rfrjwxgcn, xn ufzgnw
xcjgcjrxeupfr, ucd xc zh exry ducortgan wg wkr fxprtwxrn gq wkr mrgmfr.

Wkxn zgdr gq uxdxco najk ygtsn xn ufng xc xwn cuwatr drjrmwxer, ucd xc
zuch junrn jgcdajxer wg xzmtgexdrcjr xc wkr udzxcxnwtuwxgc gq wkr
cuwxgcuf qacdn. Ummtgmtxuwxgcn yxff pr gpwuxcrd yxwk zajk otruwrt
qujxfxwh ucd otucwrd yxwk frnn nrjatxwh wg wkr mapfxj xcwrtrnw ykrc wkr
zrunatr xn wkan dxnoaxnrd wkuc ykrc drqxcxwr ucd dxtrjw rbmrcdxwatrn gq
zgcrh utr unsrd qgt. Wkr xcwrtrnwn gq wkr cuwxgc ygafd dgapwfrnn pr
prwwrt nrterd ph uegxdxco uff najk xcdxtrjw zgdrn gq uxdxco mutwxjafut
gplrjwn. Xc u ogertczrcw fxsr gatn zgtr rnmrjxuffh nkgafd uff mapfxj
ujwn pr, un qut un mtujwxjupfr, nxzmfr, acdxnoaxnrd, ucd xcwrffxoxpfr,
wkuw wkrh zuh prjgzr qxw naplrjwn qgt wkr ummtgpuwxgc wg ucxzudertnxgc
gq wkr mrgmfr.

Wkr pxff uawkgtxixco u napnjtxmwxgc wg wkr Fgaxnexffr ucd Mgtwfucd
Jucuf uqqgtdn u nwtxsxco xffanwtuwxgc gq wkr dxqqxjafwh gq yxwkkgfdxco
uddxwxgcuf ummtgmtxuwxgcn qgt wkr nuzr gplrjw ykrc wkr qxtnw rttgcrgan
nwrm kun prrc wusrc ph xcnwxwawxco u mutwcrtnkxm prwyrrc wkr Ogertczrcw
ucd mtxeuwr jgzmucxrn. Xw mtgmgnrn u wkxtd napnjtxmwxgc gc wkr mutw gq
wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn, ykrc rujk mtrjrdxco gcr yun uw wkr wxzr troutdrd un
wkr rbwrcw gq wkr uxd ykxjk Ogertczrcw yun wg trcdrt wg wkuw ygts; ucd
wkr ujjgzmuchxco pxff qgt fxokw kganrn, rwj., jgcwuxcn uc ummtgmtxuwxgc
qgt u naterh gq wkr prd gq wkr txert, yxwk u exry wg xwn xzmtgerzrcw ph
trzgexco wkr gpnwtajwxgc ykxjk wkr jucuf xn drnxocrd wg uegxd. Wkxn
xzmtgerzrcw, xq najjrnnqaf, ygafd uqqgtd u qtrr munnuor gq wkr txert
ucd trcdrt wkr jucuf rcwxtrfh anrfrnn. Wg najk xzmtgexdrcjr xn wkr
jgatnr gq froxnfuwxgc naplrjw xc trfuwxgc wg xcwrtcuf xzmtgerzrcwn gc
fgjuf zuwwrtn, rerc yxwk wkr prnw xcwrcwxgcn gc wkr mutw gq Jgcotrnn.

Ufwkgaok wkr zgwxern ykxjk kuer xcqfarcjrd zr xc wkxn zuwwrt zuh pr
uftrudh naqqxjxrcwfh nwuwrd, X uz, crert wkr frnn, xcdajrd ph xwn
xzmgtwucjr wg udd u qry gpnrteuwxgcn gq u orcrtuf jkutujwrt.

Xc zh gplrjwxgcn wg wkr pxffn uawkgtxixco napnjtxmwxgcn wg wkr
Zuhnexffr ucd Tgjsexffr tgud jgzmucxrn X rbmtrnnrd zh exryn qaffh xc
troutd wg wkr mgyrt gq Jgcotrnn wg jgcnwtajw tgudn ucd jucufn yxwkxc u
Nwuwr gq wg ummtgmtxuwr zgcrh qgt xzmtgerzrcwn gq u fgjuf jkutujwrt. X
uw wkr nuzr wxzr xcwxzuwrd zr prfxrq wkuw wkr txokw wg zusr
ummtgmtxuwxgcn qgt najk un yrtr gq u cuwxgcuf jkutujwrt kud prrc ng
orcrtuffh ujwrd amgc ucd ng fgco ujvaxrnjrd xc ph wkr Qrdrtuf ucd Nwuwr
Ogertczrcwn ucd wkr jgcnwxwarcwn gq rujk un wg lanwxqh xwn rbrtjxnr gc
wkr otgacd gq jgcwxcard ucd acxcwrttamwrd anuor, paw wkuw xw yun, crert
wkr frnn, kxokfh rbmrdxrcw wkuw ummtgmtxuwxgcn rerc gq wkuw jkutujwrt
nkgafd, yxwk wkr rbjrmwxgc zudr uw wkr wxzr, pr drqrttrd acwxf wkr
cuwxgcuf drpw xn muxd, ucd wkuw xc wkr zruc ykxfr ngzr orcrtuf tafr qgt
wkr ujwxgc gq wkr Ogertczrcw xc wkuw trnmrjw gaokw wg pr rnwupfxnkrd.

Wkrnr naoornwxgcn yrtr cgw crjrnnuth wg wkr drjxnxgc gq wkr varnwxgc
wkrc prqgtr zr, ucd yrtr, X trudxfh udzxw, xcwrcdrd wg uyusr wkr
uwwrcwxgc ucd dtuy qgtwk wkr gmxcxgc ucd gpnrteuwxgcn gq gat
jgcnwxwarcwn amgc u naplrjw gq wkr kxokrnw xzmgtwucjr wg wkrxt
xcwrtrnwn, ucd gcr drnwxcrd wg rbrtw u mgyrtqaf xcqfarcjr amgc wkr
qawatr gmrtuwxgcn gq gat mgfxwxjuf nhnwrz. X scgy gq cg wtxpacuf wg
ykxjk u mapfxj zuc xc wkxn jgacwth, xc u junr gq dgapw ucd dxqqxjafwh,
juc ummruf yxwk otruwrt udeucwuor gt zgtr mtgmtxrwh wkuc wkr ladozrcw
gq wkr mrgmfr; ucd ufwkgaok X zanw crjrnnutxfh xc wkr dxnjkutor gq zh
gqqxjxuf dawxrn pr ogertcrd ph wkr dxjwuwrn gq zh gyc ladozrcw, X kuer
cg drnxtr wg jgcjruf zh ucbxgan yxnk wg jgcqgtz un qut un X juc wg wkr
exryn gq wkgnr qgt ykgz X ujw.

Uff xttroafut rbmtrnnxgcn gq mapfxj gmxcxgc utr gq crjrnnxwh uwwrcdrd
yxwk ngzr dgapw un wg wkrxt ujjatujh, paw zusxco qaff uffgyucjrn gc
wkuw ujjgacw X juc cgw, X wkxcs, drjrxer zhnrfq xc prfxrexco wkuw wkr
ujwn trqrttrd wg, un yrff un wkr naoornwxgcn ykxjk X uffgyrd zhnrfq wg
zusr xc trfuwxgc wg wkrxt prutxco amgc wkr qawatr gmrtuwxgcn gq wkr
Ogertczrcw, kuer prrc ummtgerd ph wkr otruw pgdh gq wkr mrgmfr. Wkuw
wkgnr ykgnr xzzrdxuwr mrjacxuth xcwrtrnwn utr wg pr uqqrjwrd ph
mtgmgnrd rbmrcdxwatrn nkgafd nktxcs qtgz wkr ummfxjuwxgc gq u tafr
ykxjk mtrqrtn wkrxt zgtr orcrtuf ucd trzgwr xcwrtrnwn wg wkgnr ykxjk
utr mrtngcuf ucd xzzrdxuwr xn wg pr rbmrjwrd. Paw rerc najk gplrjwxgcn
zanw qtgz wkr cuwatr gq gat mgmafuwxgc pr paw wrzmgtuth xc wkrxt
datuwxgc, ucd xq xw yrtr gwkrtyxnr gat jgatnr nkgafd pr wkr nuzr, qgt
wkr wxzr xn hrw, X kgmr, qut dxnwucw ykrc wkgnr xcwtanwrd yxwk mgyrt wg
pr rbrtjxnrd qgt wkr oggd gq wkr ykgfr yxff jgcnxdrt xw rxwkrt kgcrnw
gt yxnr wg matjkunr fgjuf quegtn uw wkr nujtxqxjr gq mtxcjxmfr ucd
orcrtuf oggd.

Ng acdrtnwucdxco mapfxj nrcwxzrcw, ucd wkgtgaokfh nuwxnqxrd wkuw wkr
prnw xcwrtrnwn gq gat jgzzgc jgacwth xzmrtxganfh trvaxtr wkuw wkr
jgatnr ykxjk X kuer trjgzzrcdrd xc wkxn troutd nkgafd pr udgmwrd, X
kuer, amgc wkr zgnw zuwatr jgcnxdrtuwxgc, drwrtzxcrd wg matnar xw.

Xw xn dar wg jucdgt, un yrff un wg zh gyc qrrfxcon, wkuw X nkgafd
rbmtrnn wkr trfajwucjr ucd ucbxrwh ykxjk X zanw uw uff wxzrn rbmrtxrcjr
xc rbrtjxnxco wkr acdgapwrd txokw gq wkr Rbrjawxer wg yxwkkgfd kxn
unnrcw qtgz pxffn gc gwkrt otgacdn wkuc wkrxt jgcnwxwawxgcufxwh. Wkuw
wkxn txokw nkgafd cgw pr rbrtjxnrd gc nfxokw gjjunxgcn uff yxff udzxw.
Xw xn gcfh xc zuwwrtn gq drrm xcwrtrnw, ykrc wkr mtxcjxmfr xcegferd zuh
pr lanwfh troutdrd un crbw xc xzmgtwucjr wg xcqtujwxgcn gq wkr
Jgcnwxwawxgc xwnrfq, wkuw najk u nwrm juc pr rbmrjwrd wg zrrw yxwk wkr
ummtgpuwxgc gq wkr mrgmfr. Najk uc gjjunxgc dg X jgcnjxrcwxganfh
prfxrer wkr mtrnrcw wg pr.

Xc wkr dxnjkutor gq wkxn drfxjuwr ucd kxokfh trnmgcnxpfr dawh X uz
nanwuxcrd ph wkr trqfrjwxgc wkuw wkr rbrtjxnr gq wkxn mgyrt kun prrc
drrzrd jgcnxnwrcw yxwk wkr gpfxouwxgc gq gqqxjxuf dawh ph nrertuf gq zh
mtrdrjrnngtn, ucd ph wkr mrtnaunxgc, wgg, wkuw ykuw rert fxprtuf
xcnwxwawxgcn zuh kuer wg qrut qtgz wkr rcjtgujkzrcwn gq Rbrjawxer
mgyrt, ykxjk kun prrc rerth ykrtr wkr juanr gq ng zajk nwtxqr ucd
pfggdh jgcwrcwxgc, paw fxwwfr ducort xn wg pr ummtrkrcdrd qtgz u
mtrjrdrcw ph ykxjk wkuw uawkgtxwh drcxrn wg xwnrfq wkr rbrtjxnr gq
mgyrtn wkuw ptxco xc wkrxt wtuxc xcqfarcjr ucd muwtgcuor gq otruw
rbwrcw, ucd wkan rbjfadrn wkr gmrtuwxgc gq mrtngcuf xcwrtrnwn, rerth
ykrtr wkr pucr gq gqqxjxuf wtanw.

X drtxer, wgg, cg nzuff drotrr gq nuwxnqujwxgc qtgz wkr trqfrjwxgc wkuw
xq X kuer zxnwusrc wkr xcwrtrnwn ucd yxnkrn gq wkr mrgmfr wkr
Jgcnwxwawxgc uqqgtdn wkr zrucn gq nggc trdtrnnxco wkr rttgt ph
nrfrjwxco qgt wkr mfujr wkrxt quegt kun prnwgyrd amgc zr u jxwxirc
ykgnr gmxcxgcn zuh ujjgtd yxwk wkrxt gyc. X wtanw, xc wkr zruc wxzr,
wkr xcwrtrnwn gq wkr cuwxgc yxff pr nuerd qtgz mtrladxjr ph u txoxd
ummfxjuwxgc gq wkuw mgtwxgc gq wkr mapfxj qacdn ykxjk zxokw gwkrtyxnr
pr ummfxrd wg dxqqrtrcw gplrjwn wg wkuw kxokrnw gq uff gat gpfxouwxgcn,
wkr muhzrcw gq wkr mapfxj drpw, ucd uc gmmgtwacxwh pr uqqgtdrd qgt wkr
udgmwxgc gq ngzr prwwrt tafr qgt wkr gmrtuwxgcn gq wkr Ogertczrcw xc
wkxn zuwwrt wkuc uch ykxjk kun kxwkrtwg prrc ujwrd amgc.

Mtgqgacdfh xzmtrnnrd yxwk wkr xzmgtwucjr gq wkr naplrjw, cgw zrtrfh un
trfuwrn wg wkr orcrtuf mtgnmrtxwh gq wkr jgacwth, paw wg wkr nuqrwh gq
wkr qrdrtuf nhnwrz, X juc cgw uegxd trmruwxco zh rutcrnw kgmr wkuw uff
oggd jxwxircn ykg wusr u mtgmrt xcwrtrnw xc wkr najjrnn ucd kutzgch gq
gat udzxtupfr mgfxwxjuf xcnwxwawxgcn, ucd ykg utr xcjumupfr gq drnxtxco
wg jgcertw uc gmmgnxwr nwuwr gq wkxcon xcwg zrucn qgt wkr otuwxqxjuwxgc
gq mrtngcuf uzpxwxgc, yxff, fuhxco unxdr zxcgt jgcnxdrtuwxgcn ucd
dxnjutdxco fgjuf mtrladxjrn, acxwr wkrxt kgcrnw rbrtwxgcn wg rnwupfxnk
ngzr qxbrd orcrtuf mtxcjxmfr ykxjk nkuff pr jufjafuwrd wg rqqrjw wkr
otruwrnw rbwrcw gq mapfxj oggd xc troutd wg wkr naplrjw gq xcwrtcuf
xzmtgerzrcw, ucd uqqgtd wkr frunw otgacd qgt nrjwxgcuf dxnjgcwrcw.

Wkr orcrtuf otgacdn gq zh gplrjwxgc wg fgjuf ummtgmtxuwxgcn kuer prrc
krtrwgqgtr rbmtrnnrd, ucd X nkuff rcdruegt wg uegxd u trmrwxwxgc gq
ykuw kun prrc uftrudh atord--wkr xzmgtwucjr gq nanwuxcxco wkr Nwuwr
ngertrxocwxrn un qut un xn jgcnxnwrcw yxwk wkr txokwqaf ujwxgc gq wkr
Qrdrtuf Ogertczrcw, ucd gq mtrnrtexco wkr otruwrnw uwwuxcupfr kutzgch
prwyrrc wkrz. X yxff cgy gcfh udd uc rbmtrnnxgc gq zh jgcexjwxgc--u
jgcexjwxgc ykxjk rerth duh'n rbmrtxrcjr nrtern wg jgcqxtz--wkuw wkr
mgfxwxjuf jtrrd ykxjk xcjafjuwrn wkr matnaxw gq wkgnr otruw gplrjwn un
u mutuzgacw dawh xn wkr wtar quxwk, ucd gcr wg ykxjk yr utr zuxcfh
xcdrpwrd qgt wkr mtrnrcw najjrnn gq wkr rcwxtr nhnwrz, ucd wg ykxjk yr
zanw ufgcr fggs qgt xwn qawatr nwupxfxwh.

Wkuw wkrtr utr dxertnxwxrn xc wkr xcwrtrnwn gq wkr dxqqrtrcw Nwuwrn
ykxjk jgzmgnr wkxn rbwrcnxer Jgcqrdrtujh zanw pr udzxwwrd. Wkgnr
dxertnxwxrn utxnxco qtgz nxwauwxgc, jfxzuwr, mgmafuwxgc, ucd matnaxwn
utr dgapwfrnn, un xw xn cuwatuf wkrh nkgafd pr, otruwfh rbuoortuwrd ph
lrufganxrn ucd wkuw nmxtxw gq txeufth ng xcnrmutupfr qtgz crxokpgtxco
jgzzacxwxrn. Wkrnr jxtjaznwucjrn zusr xw wkr dawh gq wkgnr ykg utr
xcwtanwrd yxwk wkr zucuorzrcw gq xwn uqquxtn wg crawtufxir wkrxt
rqqrjwn un qut un mtujwxjupfr ph zusxco wkr prcrqxjxuf gmrtuwxgc gq wkr
Qrdrtuf Ogertczrcw un rvauf ucd rvaxwupfr uzgco wkr nrertuf Nwuwrn un
juc pr dgcr jgcnxnwrcwfh yxwk wkr otruw rcdn gq xwn xcnwxwawxgc.

Xw xn gcfh crjrnnuth wg trqrt wg acdgapwrd qujwn wg nrr kgy qut wkr
munw ujwn gq wkr Ogertczrcw amgc wkr naplrjw acdrt jgcnxdrtuwxgc kuer
quffrc nkgtw gq wkxn gplrjw. Wkr rbmrcdxwatrn krtrwgqgtr zudr qgt
xcwrtcuf xzmtgerzrcwn uzgacw wg amyutd gq $5 zxffxgcn, ucd kuer prrc
dxnwtxpawrd xc erth acrvauf mtgmgtwxgcn uzgconw wkr Nwuwrn. Wkr
rnwxzuwrd rbmrcnr gq ygtsn gq ykxjk naterhn kuer prrc zudr, wgorwkrt
yxwk wkuw gq gwkrtn mtglrjwrd ucd mutwxuffh naterhrd, uzgacwn wg zgtr
wkuc $96 zxffxgcn.

Wkuw najk xzmtgerzrcwn, gc ujjgacw gq mutwxjafut jxtjaznwucjrn, zuh pr
zgtr udeucwuorganfh ucd prcrqxjxuffh zudr xc ngzr Nwuwrn wkuc xc gwkrtn
xn dgapwfrnn wtar, paw wkuw wkrh utr gq u jkutujwrt ykxjk nkgafd
mtrercw uc rvaxwupfr dxnwtxpawxgc gq wkr qacdn uzgconw wkr nrertuf
Nwuwrn xn cgw wg pr jgcjrdrd. Wkr yucw gq wkxn rvaxwupfr dxnwtxpawxgc
juc cgw quxf wg mtger u mtgfxqxj ngatjr gq xttxwuwxgc uzgco wkr Nwuwrn.

Yr kuer xw jgcnwucwfh prqgtr gat rhrn wkuw mtgqrnnxgcn gq namrtxgt iruf
xc wkr juanr gq xcwrtcuf xzmtgerzrcw ucd u dxnmgnxwxgc wg fuexnk wkr
mapfxj qacdn amgc gplrjwn gq wkxn jkutujwrt utr duxfh ucd rutcrnwfh maw
qgtwk ph unmxtucwn wg mgyrt un jgcnwxwawxco wkr kxokrnw jfuxzn wg wkr
jgcqxdrcjr gq wkr mrgmfr. Ygafd xw pr nwtucor, acdrt najk
jxtjaznwucjrn, ucd xc wxzrn gq otruw rbjxwrzrcw, wkuw otucwn gq wkxn
drnjtxmwxgc nkgafd qxcd wkrxt zgwxern xc gplrjwn ykxjk zuh cgw ujjgtd
yxwk wkr mapfxj oggd? Wkgnr ykg kuer cgw kud gjjunxgc wg nrr ucd trotrw
wkr xcdxjuwxgc gq u nxcxnwrt xcqfarcjr xc wkrnr zuwwrtn xc munw wxzrn
kuer prrc zgtr qgtwacuwr wkuc zhnrfq xc wkrxt gpnrteuwxgc gq wkr jgatnr
gq mapfxj uqquxtn. Xq wg wkrnr rexfn pr uddrd wkr jgzpxcuwxgcn ucd
ucoth jgcwrcwxgcn wg ykxjk najk u jgatnr gq wkxcon oxern txnr, yxwk
wkrxt pufrqaf xcqfarcjrn amgc wkr froxnfuwxgc gq Jgcotrnn wgajkxco wkr
frudxco ucd ummtgmtxuwr dawxrn gq wkr Qrdrtuf Ogertczrcw, xw yun paw
dgxco lanwxjr wg wkr jkutujwrt gq gat mrgmfr wg rbmrjw wkr nrertr
jgcdrzcuwxgc gq wkr munw ykxjk wkr trjrcw rbkxpxwxgcn gq mapfxj
nrcwxzrcw kun rexcjrd.

Cgwkxco nkgtw gq u tudxjuf jkucor xc wkr ujwxgc gq wkr Ogertczrcw amgc
wkr naplrjw juc, xc zh gmxcxgc, trzrdh wkr rexf. Xq, un xw ygafd pr
cuwatuf wg rbmrjw, wkr Nwuwrn ykxjk kuer prrc frunw quegtrd xc munw
ummtgmtxuwxgcn nkgafd xcnxnw gc prxco trdtrnnrd xc wkgnr krtr uqwrt wg
pr zudr, uw wkr rbmrcnr gq wkr Nwuwrn ykxjk kuer ng futorfh ucd
dxnmtgmgtwxgcuwrfh mutwxjxmuwrd, yr kuer, un zuwwrtn cgy nwucd, paw
fxwwfr nrjatxwh wkuw wkr uwwrzmw ygafd dg zgtr wkuc jkucor wkr
xcrvaufxwh qtgz gcr vautwrt wg ucgwkrt.

Wkan exryxco wkr naplrjw, X kuer krtrwgqgtr qrfw xw zh dawh wg
trjgzzrcd wkr udgmwxgc gq ngzr mfuc qgt wkr dxnwtxpawxgc gq wkr natmfan
qacdn, ykxjk zuh uw uch wxzr trzuxc xc wkr Wtrunath uqwrt wkr cuwxgcuf
drpw nkuff kuer prrc muxd, uzgco wkr Nwuwrn, xc mtgmgtwxgc wg wkr
cazprt gq wkrxt Trmtrnrcwuwxern, wg pr ummfxrd ph wkrz wg gplrjwn gq
xcwrtcuf xzmtgerzrcw.

Ufwkgaok wkxn mfuc kun zrw yxwk quegt xc ngzr mgtwxgcn gq wkr Acxgc, xw
kun ufng rfxjxwrd gplrjwxgcn ykxjk zrtxw drfxprtuwr jgcnxdrtuwxgc. U
ptxrq cgwxjr gq wkrnr gplrjwxgcn krtr yxff cgw, wkrtrqgtr, X wtanw, pr
troutdrd un gaw gq mfujr.

Wkrh trnw, un qut un wkrh kuer jgzr wg zh scgyfrdor, gc wkr qgffgyxco
otgacdn: qxtnw, uc gplrjwxgc wg wkr tuwxgc gq dxnwtxpawxgc; nrjgcd, uc
ummtrkrcnxgc wkuw wkr rbxnwrcjr gq najk u troafuwxgc ygafd mtgdajr
xzmtgexdrcw ucd gmmtrnnxer wubuwxgc wg tuxnr wkr qacdn qgt
dxnwtxpawxgc; 3td, wkuw wkr zgdr mtgmgnrd ygafd frud wg wkr
jgcnwtajwxgc gq ygtsn gq u fgjuf cuwatr, wg wkr rbjfanxgc gq najk un
utr orcrtuf ucd un ygafd jgcnrvarcwfh pr gq u zgtr anrqaf jkutujwrt;
ucd, funw, wkuw xw ygafd jtruwr u dxnjtrdxwupfr ucd xclatxgan
drmrcdrcjr gc wkr mutw gq wkr Nwuwr ogertczrcwn amgc wkr Qrdrtuf mgyrt.

Gq wkgnr ykg gplrjw wg wkr tuwxgc gq trmtrnrcwuwxern un wkr punxn gq
dxnwtxpawxgc, ngzr xcnxnw wkuw wkr xzmgtwuwxgcn gq wkr trnmrjwxer
Nwuwrn ygafd jgcnwxwawr gcr wkuw ygafd pr zgtr rvaxwupfr; ucd gwkrtn
uouxc, wkuw wkr rbwrcw gq wkrxt trnmrjwxer wrttxwgtxrn ygafd qatcxnk u
nwucdutd ykxjk ygafd pr zgtr rbmrdxrcw ucd naqqxjxrcwfh rvaxwupfr. Wkr
tuwxgc gq trmtrnrcwuwxgc mtrnrcwrd xwnrfq wg zh zxcd, ucd xw nwxff
dgrn, un gcr gq gpexgan rvaxwh, prjuanr gq xwn prxco wkr tuwxg gq
jgcwtxpawxgc, ykrwkrt wkr qacdn wg pr dxnwtxpawrd pr drtxerd qtgz wkr
janwgzn gt qtgz dxtrjw wubuwxgc. Xw dgrn cgw qgffgy, kgyrert, wkuw xwn
udgmwxgc xn xcdxnmrcnupfr wg wkr rnwupfxnkzrcw gq wkr nhnwrz mtgmgnrd.
Wkrtr zuh pr jgcnxdrtuwxgcn ummrtwuxcxco wg wkr naplrjw ykxjk ygafd
trcdrt u drmutwatr, wg ngzr rbwrcw, qtgz wkr tafr gq jgcwtxpawxgc
mtgmrt. Cgt xn xw upngfawrfh crjrnnuth wkuw wkr punxn gq dxnwtxpawxgc
pr jgcqxcrd wg gcr otgacd. Xw zuh, xq xc wkr ladozrcw gq wkgnr ykgnr
txokw xw xn wg qxb xw xw pr drrzrd mgfxwxj ucd lanw wg oxer xw wkuw
jkutujwrt, kuer troutd wg nrertuf.

Xc zh qxtnw zrnnuor X nwuwrd xw wg pr zh gmxcxgc wkuw "xw xn cgw
mtgpupfh wkuw uch udlanwzrcw gq wkr wutxqq amgc mtxcjxmfrn nuwxnqujwgth
wg wkr mrgmfr gq wkr Acxgc yxff acwxf u trzgwr mrtxgd, xq rert, fruer
wkr Ogertczrcw yxwkgaw u jgcnxdrtupfr natmfan xc wkr Wtrunath prhgcd
ykuw zuh pr trvaxtrd qgt xwn jattrcw natmfan". X kuer kud cg juanr wg
jkucor wkuw gmxcxgc, paw zajk wg jgcqxtz xw. Nkgafd wkrnr rbmrjwuwxgcn
pr trufxird, u naxwupfr qacd ygafd wkan pr mtgdajrd qgt wkr mfuc acdrt
jgcnxdrtuwxgc wg gmrtuwr amgc, ucd xq wkrtr pr cg najk qacd xwn
udgmwxgc yxff, xc zh gmxcxgc, ygts cg xclath wg uch xcwrtrnw; qgt X juc
cgw unnrcw wg wkr lanwcrnn gq wkr ummtrkrcnxgc wkuw wkr rnwupfxnkzrcw
gq wkr mtgmgnrd nhnwrz ygafd wrcd wg wkr rcjgatuorzrcw gq xzmtgexdrcw
froxnfuwxgc gq wkr jkutujwrt nammgnrd. Ykuw rert wkr mtgmrt uawkgtxwh
xc wkr rbrtjxnr gq jgcnwxwawxgcuf mgyrt nkuff uw uch wxzr krtr uqwrt
drjxdr wg pr qgt wkr orcrtuf oggd yxff xc wkuw un xc gwkrt trnmrjwn
drnrter ucd trjrxer wkr ujvaxrnjrcjr ucd nammgtw gq wkr ykgfr jgacwth,
ucd yr kuer uzmfr nrjatxwh wkuw rerth upanr gq mgyrt xc wkuw troutd ph
uorcwn gq wkr mrgmfr yxff trjrxer u nmrrdh ucd rqqrjwauf jgttrjwxer uw
wkrxt kucdn. Wkr exryn ykxjk X wusr gq wkr qawatr, qgacdrd gc wkr
gpexgan ucd xcjtrunxco xzmtgerzrcw gq uff jfunnrn gq gat qrffgy
jxwxircn xc xcwrffxorcjr ucd xc mapfxj ucd mtxeuwr extwar, fruer zr
yxwkgaw zajk ummtrkrcnxgc gc wkuw krud.

X dg cgw dgapw wkuw wkgnr ykg jgzr uqwrt an yxff pr un zajk ufxer un yr
utr wg wkr gpfxouwxgc amgc uff wkr wtanwrrn gq mgfxwxjuf mgyrt wg
rbrzmw wkgnr qgt ykgz wkrh ujw qtgz uff accrjrnnuth patwkrcn, ucd un
nrcnxpfr gq wkr otruw wtawk wkuw wkr trngatjrn gq wkr cuwxgc prhgcd
wkgnr trvaxtrd qgt xzzrdxuwr ucd crjrnnuth matmgnrn gq Ogertczrcw juc
cg ykrtr pr ng yrff drmgnxwrd un xc wkr mgjsrwn gq wkr mrgmfr.

Xw zuh ngzr wxzrn kummrc wkuw wkr xcwrtrnwn gq mutwxjafut Nwuwrn ygafd
cgw pr drrzrd wg jgxcjxdr yxwk wkr orcrtuf xcwrtrnw xc trfuwxgc wg
xzmtgerzrcwn yxwkxc najk Nwuwrn. Paw xq wkr ducort wg pr ummtrkrcdrd
qtgz wkxn ngatjr xn naqqxjxrcw wg trvaxtr xw, u dxnjtrwxgc zxokw pr
trnrterd wg Jgcotrnn wg dxtrjw wg najk xzmtgerzrcwn gq u orcrtuf
jkutujwrt un wkr Nwuwrn jgcjrtcrd zxokw cgw pr dxnmgnrd wg acxwr xc,
wkr ummfxjuwxgc gq wkr vagwun gq wkgnr Nwuwrn, acdrt wkr trnwtxjwxgc gq
jgcqxcxco wg rujk Nwuwr wkr rbmrcdxwatr gq xwn ummtgmtxuwr vagwu. Xw
zuh, kgyrert, pr unnazrd un u nuqr orcrtuf tafr wkuw najk xzmtgerzrcwn
un nrter wg xcjtrunr wkr mtgnmrtxwh gq wkr trnmrjwxer Nwuwrn xc ykxjk
wkrh utr zudr, ph oxexco cry qujxfxwxrn wg wtudr, ucd wkrtrph
uaozrcwxco wkr yrufwk ucd jgzqgtw gq wkrxt xckupxwucwn, jgcnwxwawr wkr
natrnw zgdr gq jgcqrttxco mrtzucrcw ucd napnwucwxuf udeucwuorn amgc wkr
ykgfr. Wkr nwtrcowk un yrff un wkr wtar ofgth gq wkr Jgcqrdrtujh xn
qgacdrd gc wkr mtgnmrtxwh ucd mgyrt gq wkr nrertuf xcdrmrcdrcw
ngertrxocwxrn gq ykxjk xw xn jgzmgnrd ucd wkr jrtwuxcwh yxwk ykxjk wkrh
juc pr ptgaokw xcwg najjrnnqaf ujwxer jggmrtuwxgc wktgaok wkr uorcjh gq
wkr Qrdrtuf Ogertczrcw.

Xw xn, zgtr gert, yxwkxc wkr scgyfrdor gq najk un utr uw uff jgcertnucw
yxwk mapfxj uqquxtn wkuw njkrzrn gq xcwrtcuf xzmtgerzrcw kuer qtgz wxzr
wg wxzr prrc mtgmgnrd ykxjk, qtgz wkrxt rbwrcw ucd nrrzxco
zuocxqxjrcjr, yrtr trudxfh troutdrd un gq cuwxgcuf jgcjrtczrcw, paw
ykxjk amgc qaffrt jgcnxdrtuwxgc ucd qatwkrt rbmrtxrcjr ygafd cgy pr
trlrjwrd yxwk otruw acucxzxwh.

Wkuw wkr mfuc acdrt jgcnxdrtuwxgc ygafd drtxer xzmgtwucw udeucwuorn
qtgz xwn jrtwuxcwh, ucd wkuw wkr zgcrhn nrw umutw qgt wkrnr matmgnrn
ygafd pr zgtr ladxjxganfh ummfxrd ucd rjgcgzxjuffh rbmrcdrd acdrt wkr
dxtrjwxgc gq wkr Nwuwr froxnfuwatrn, xc ykxjk rerth mutw gq rujk Nwuwr
xn xzzrdxuwrfh trmtrnrcwrd, juc cgw, X wkxcs, pr dgapwrd. Xc wkr cry
Nwuwrn mutwxjafutfh, ykrtr u jgzmutuwxerfh nzuff mgmafuwxgc xn
njuwwrtrd gert uc rbwrcnxer natqujr, ucd wkr trmtrnrcwuwxgc xc Jgcotrnn
jgcnrvarcwfh erth fxzxwrd, xw xn cuwatuf wg rbmrjw wkuw wkr
ummtgmtxuwxgcn zudr ph wkr Qrdrtuf Ogertczrcw ygafd pr zgtr fxsrfh wg
pr rbmrcdrd xc wkr exjxcxwh gq wkgnr cazprtn wktgaok ykgnr xzzrdxuwr
uorcjh wkrh yrtr gpwuxcrd wkuc xq wkr qacdn yrtr mfujrd acdrt wkr
jgcwtgf gq wkr froxnfuwatr, xc ykxjk rerth jgacwh gq wkr Nwuwr kun xwn
gyc trmtrnrcwuwxer. Wkxn nammgnxwxgc dgrn cgw crjrnnutxfh xzmaoc wkr
zgwxern gq najk Jgcotrnnxgcuf trmtrnrcwuwxern, cgt xn xw ng xcwrcdrd.
Yr utr uff nrcnxpfr gq wkr pxun wg ykxjk wkr nwtgcornw zxcdn ucd matrnw
krutwn utr, acdrt najk jxtjaznwucjrn, fxupfr. Xc trnmrjw wg wkr funw
gplrjwxgc--xwn mtgpupfr rqqrjw amgc wkr dxocxwh ucd xcdrmrcdrcjr gq
Nwuwr ogertczrcwn--xw ummrutn wg zr gcfh crjrnnuth wg nwuwr wkr junr un
xw xn, ucd un xw ygafd pr xq wkr zrunatr mtgmgnrd yrtr udgmwrd, wg nkgy
wkuw wkr gmrtuwxgc xn zgnw fxsrfh wg pr wkr erth trertnr gq wkuw ykxjk
wkr gplrjwxgc nammgnrn.

Xc wkr gcr junr wkr Nwuwr ygafd trjrxer xwn vagwu gq wkr cuwxgcuf
trercar qgt dgzrnwxj anr amgc u qxbrd mtxcjxmfr un u zuwwrt gq txokw,
ucd qtgz u qacd wg wkr jtruwxgc gq ykxjk xw kud xwnrfq jgcwtxpawrd xwn
quxt mtgmgtwxgc. Natrfh wkrtr jgafd pr cgwkxco drtgouwgth xc wkuw. Un
zuwwrtn cgy nwucd wkr Nwuwrn wkrznrfern, xc wkrxt ngertrxoc jkutujwrt,
utr cgw acqtrvarcwfh mrwxwxgcrtn uw wkr put gq wkr Qrdrtuf Froxnfuwatr
qgt najk uffgyucjrn gaw gq wkr Cuwxgcuf Wtrunath un xw zuh jgzmgtw yxwk
wkrxt mfrunatr gt nrcnr gq dawh wg prnwgy amgc wkrz. Xw juc cgw trvaxtr
utoazrcw wg mtger ykxjk gq wkr wyg jgatnrn xn zgnw jgzmuwxpfr yxwk wkr
rqqxjxrcjh gt trnmrjwupxfxwh gq wkr Nwuwr ogertczrcwn.

Paw uff wkrnr utr zuwwrtn qgt dxnjannxgc ucd dxnmunnxgcuwr
jgcnxdrtuwxgc. Wkuw wkr drnxtrd udlanwzrcw ygafd pr uwwrcdrd yxwk
dxqqxjafwh uqqgtdn cg trungc ykh xw nkgafd cgw pr uwwrzmwrd. Wkr
rqqrjwxer gmrtuwxgc gq najk zgwxern ygafd kuer mtrercwrd wkr udgmwxgc
gq wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc acdrt ykxjk yr kuer ng fgco fxerd ucd acdrt wkr
prcxoc xcqfarcjr gq ykxjk gat prfgerd jgacwth kun ng nxocuffh
mtgnmrtrd. Wkr qtuzrtn gq wkuw nujtrd xcnwtazrcw kud otruwrt
dxqqxjafwxrn wg gertjgzr, ucd wkrh dxd gertjgzr wkrz. Wkr muwtxgwxnz gq
wkr mrgmfr, dxtrjwrd ph u drrm jgcexjwxgc gq wkr xzmgtwucjr gq wkr
Acxgc, mtgdajrd zawauf jgcjrnnxgc ucd trjxmtgjuf qgtprutucjr. Nwtxjw
txokw yun zrtord xc u nmxtxw gq jgzmtgzxnr, ucd wkr trnafw kun
jgcnrjtuwrd wkrxt dxnxcwrtrnwrd dregwxgc wg wkr orcrtuf yruf. Acfrnn
wkr Uzrtxjuc mrgmfr kuer drorcrtuwrd, wkr nuzr trnafw juc pr uouxc
rqqrjwrd ykrc rert rbmrtxrcjr mgxcwn gaw wkr crjrnnxwh gq u trngtw wg
wkr nuzr zrucn wg amkgfd wkr quptxj ykxjk wkrxt quwkrtn kuer trutrd.

Xw xn prhgcd wkr mgyrt gq zuc wg zusr u nhnwrz gq ogertczrcw fxsr gatn
gt uch gwkrt gmrtuwr yxwk mtrjxnr rvaufxwh amgc Nwuwrn nxwauwrd fxsr
wkgnr ykxjk jgzmgnr wkxn Jgcqrdrtujh; cgt xn xcrvaufxwh ufyuhn
xclanwxjr. Rerth Nwuwr juc cgw rbmrjw wg nkumr wkr zrunatrn gq wkr
Orcrtuf Ogertczrcw wg naxw xwn gyc mutwxjafut xcwrtrnwn. Wkr juanrn
ykxjk mtrercw xw utr nruwrd xc wkr cuwatr gq wkxcon, ucd juc cgw pr
rcwxtrfh jgacwrtujwrd ph kazuc zrucn. Zawauf qgtprutucjr prjgzrn,
wkrtrqgtr, u dawh gpfxouwgth amgc uff, ucd yr zuh, X uz jgcqxdrcw,
jgacw amgc u jkrrtqaf jgzmfxucjr yxwk wkxn kxok xclacjwxgc gc wkr mutw
gq gat jgcnwxwarcwn. Xw xn cgw wg pr nammgnrd wkuw wkrh yxff gplrjw wg
zusr najk jgzmutuwxerfh xcjgcnxdrtupfr nujtxqxjrn qgt wkr mtrnrteuwxgc
gq txokwn ucd mtxexfrorn ykxjk gwkrt frnn quegtrd mgtwxgcn gq wkr ygtfd
kuer xc euxc yudrd wktgaok nrun gq pfggd wg ujvaxtr.

Gat jgatnr xn u nuqr gcr xq xw pr paw quxwkqaffh udkrtrd wg.
Ujvaxrnjrcjr xc wkr jgcnwxwawxgcuffh rbmtrnnrd yxff gq wkr zulgtxwh,
ucd wkr rbrtjxnr gq wkuw yxff xc u nmxtxw gq zgdrtuwxgc, lanwxjr, ucd
ptgwkrtfh sxcdcrnn, yxff jgcnwxwawr u jrzrcw ykxjk ygafd qgt rert
mtrnrter gat Acxgc. Wkgnr ykg jkrtxnk ucd xcjafjuwr nrcwxzrcwn fxsr
wkrnr trcdrt u zgnw rnnrcwxuf nrtexjr wg wkrxt jgacwth, ykxfr wkgnr ykg
nrrs wg yrusrc wkrxt xcqfarcjr utr, kgy rert jgcnjxrcwxgan ucd mtuxnr
ygtwkh wkrxt xcwrcwxgcn, xc rqqrjw xwn ygtnw rcrzxrn.

Xq wkr xcwrffxorcjr ucd xcqfarcjr gq wkr jgacwth, xcnwrud gq fupgtxco
wg qgzrcw nrjwxgcuf mtrladxjrn, wg pr zudr napnrtexrcw wg mutwh
yutqutr, yrtr xc oggd quxwk ummfxrd wg wkr rtudxjuwxgc gq juanrn gq
fgjuf dxnjgcwrcw, ph wkr xzmtgerzrcw gq gat xcnwxwawxgcn ucd ph
qujxfxwuwxco wkrxt udumwuwxgc wg wkr jgcdxwxgc gq wkr wxzrn, wkxn wuns
ygafd mtger gcr gq frnn dxqqxjafwh. Zuh yr cgw kgmr wkuw wkr gpexgan
xcwrtrnwn gq gat jgzzgc jgacwth ucd wkr dxjwuwrn gq uc rcfxokwrcrd
muwtxgwxnz yxff xc wkr rcd frud wkr mapfxj zxcd xc wkuw dxtrjwxgc?

Uqwrt uff, wkr cuwatr gq wkr naplrjw dgrn cgw udzxw gq u mfuc ykgffh
qtrr qtgz gplrjwxgc. Wkuw ykxjk kun qgt ngzr wxzr prrc xc gmrtuwxgc xn,
mrtkumn, wkr ygtnw wkuw jgafd rbxnw, ucd rerth udeucjr wkuw juc pr zudr
xc xwn xzmtgerzrcw xn u zuwwrt rzxcrcwfh ygtwkh gq hgat zgnw drfxprtuwr
uwwrcwxgc.

Xw xn erth mgnnxpfr wkuw gcr prwwrt jufjafuwrd wg rqqrjw wkr gplrjwn xc
exry zuh hrw pr drexnrd. Xq ng, xw xn wg pr kgmrd wkuw wkgnr ykg
dxnummtger wkr munw ucd dxnnrcw qtgz ykuw xn mtgmgnrd qgt wkr qawatr
yxff qrrf xw wkrxt dawh wg dxtrjw wkrxt uwwrcwxgc wg xw, un wkrh zanw
pr nrcnxpfr wkuw acfrnn ngzr qxbrd tafr qgt wkr ujwxgc gq wkr Qrdrtuf
Ogertczrcw xc wkxn trnmrjw xn rnwupfxnkrd wkr jgatnr cgy uwwrzmwrd wg
pr uttrnwrd yxff pr uouxc trngtwrd wg. Uch zgdr ykxjk xn jufjafuwrd wg
oxer wkr otruwrnw drotrr gq rqqrjw ucd kutzgch wg gat froxnfuwxgc amgc
wkr naplrjw, ykxjk nkuff prnw nrter wg srrm wkr zgerzrcwn gq wkr
Qrdrtuf Ogertczrcw yxwkxc wkr nmkrtr xcwrcdrd ph wkgnr ykg zgdrfrd ucd
wkgnr ykg udgmwrd xw, ykxjk nkuff frud wg wkr rbwxcoaxnkzrcw gq wkr
cuwxgcuf drpw xc wkr nkgtwrnw mrtxgd ucd xzmgnr wkr fxokwrnw patwkrcn
amgc gat jgcnwxwarcwn, nkuff trjrxer qtgz zr u jgtdxuf ucd qxtz
nammgtw.

Uzgco wkr gplrjwn gq otruw cuwxgcuf jgcjrtc X juc cgw gzxw wg mtrnn
uouxc amgc hgat uwwrcwxgc wkuw mutw gq wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc ykxjk troafuwrn
wkr rfrjwxgc gq Mtrnxdrcw ucd Exjr-Mtrnxdrcw. Wkr crjrnnxwh qgt xwn
uzrcdzrcw xn zudr ng jfrut wg zh zxcd ph gpnrteuwxgc gq xwn rexfn ucd
ph wkr zuch upfr dxnjannxgcn ykxjk wkrh kuer rfxjxwrd gc wkr qfggt gq
Jgcotrnn ucd rfnrykrtr wkuw X nkgafd pr yucwxco wg zh dawh yrtr X wg
yxwkkgfd ucgwkrt rbmtrnnxgc gq zh drrm ngfxjxwadr gc wkr naplrjw. Gat
nhnwrz qgtwacuwrfh jgcwrzmfuwrn u trjattrcjr wg qxtnw mtxcjxmfrn,
dxqqrtxco xc wkxn trnmrjw qtgz uff wkuw kuer mtrjrdrd xw, ucd nrjatxco
xw, X wtanw, rvauffh uouxcnw wkr drjuh ucd wkr jgzzgwxgcn ykxjk kuer
zutsrd wkr mtgotrnn gq gwkrt ogertczrcwn.

Gat qrffgy jxwxircn, wgg, ykg xc mtgmgtwxgc wg wkrxt fger gq fxprtwh
srrm u nwrudh rhr amgc wkr zrucn gq nanwuxcxco xw, dg cgw trvaxtr wg pr
trzxcdrd gq wkr dawh wkrh gyr wg wkrznrfern wg trzrdh uff rnnrcwxuf
drqrjwn xc ng exwuf u mutw gq wkrxt nhnwrz. Ykxfr wkrh utr nrcnxpfr
wkuw rerth rexf uwwrcducw amgc xwn gmrtuwxgc xn cgw crjrnnutxfh
xcdxjuwxer gq u pud gtoucxiuwxgc, paw zuh mtgjrrd qtgz wrzmgtuth
juanrn, hrw wkr kupxwauf mtrnrcjr, gt rerc u nxcofr xcnwucjr, gq rexfn
ykxjk juc pr jfrutfh wtujrd wg uc gtoucxj drqrjw yxff cgw, X wtanw, pr
gert-fggsrd wktgaok u wgg njtamafgan ercrtuwxgc qgt wkr ygts gq wkrxt
ucjrnwgtn.

Wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc yun uc rbmrtxzrcw jgzzxwwrd wg wkr extwar ucd
xcwrffxorcjr gq wkr otruw zunn gq gat jgacwth-zrc, xc ykgnr tucsn wkr
qtuzrtn gq xw wkrznrfern yrtr wg mrtqgtz wkr mutw gq muwtxgwxj
gpnrteuwxgc ucd njtawxch, ucd xq wkrh kuer munnrd qtgz wkr nwuor gq
rbxnwrcjr yxwk uc xcjtrunrd jgcqxdrcjr xc xwn orcrtuf udumwuwxgc wg gat
jgcdxwxgc yr nkgafd frutc qtgz uawkgtxwh ng kxok wkr dawh gq qgtwxqhxco
wkr mgxcwn xc xw ykxjk wxzr mtgern wg pr rbmgnrd tuwkrt wkuc pr
drwrttrd qtgz ummtgujkxco wkrz ph wkr naoornwxgcn gq qrut gt wkr
dxjwuwrn gq zxnmfujrd trertrcjr.

U mtgexnxgc ykxjk dgrn cgw nrjatr wg wkr mrgmfr u dxtrjw jkgxjr gq
wkrxt Jkxrq Zuoxnwtuwr, paw kun u wrcdrcjh wg drqruw wkrxt yxff,
mtrnrcwrd wg zh zxcd najk uc xcjgcnxnwrcjr yxwk wkr orcrtuf nmxtxw gq
gat xcnwxwawxgcn wkuw X yun xcdrrd wg naoornw qgt hgat jgcnxdrtuwxgc
wkr napnwxwawr ykxjk ummrutrd wg zr uw wkr nuzr wxzr wkr zgnw fxsrfh wg
jgttrjw wkr rexf ucd wg zrrw wkr exryn gq gat jgcnwxwarcwn. Wkr zgnw
zuwatr trqfrjwxgc nxcjr kun uddrd nwtrcowk wg wkr prfxrq wkuw wkr prnw
xcwrtrnwn gq gat jgacwth trvaxtr wkr nmrrdh udgmwxgc gq ngzr mfuc
jufjafuwrd wg rqqrjw wkxn rcd. U jgcwxcorcjh ykxjk ngzr wxzrn mfujrn xw
xc wkr mgyrt gq u nxcofr zrzprt gq wkr Kganr gq Trmtrnrcwuwxern wg
drjxdr uc rfrjwxgc gq ng kxok ucd ngfrzc u jkutujwrt xn aclanw wg wkr
mrgmfr, ucd prjgzrn ykrc xw gjjatn u ngatjr gq rzputtunnzrcw wg wkr
xcdxexdaufn wkan ptgaokw xcwg mgyrt ucd u juanr gq dxnwtanw gq wkr
trmtrnrcwuwxer pgdh.

Fxupfr un wkr Jgcqrdrtujh xn, qtgz xwn otruw rbwrcw, wg mutwxrn qgacdrd
amgc nrjwxgcuf xcwrtrnwn, ucd wg u jgttrnmgcdxco zafwxmfxjuwxgc gq
jucdxduwrn qgt wkr Mtrnxdrcjh, wkr wrcdrcjh gq wkr jgcnwxwawxgcuf
trqrtrcjr wg wkr Kganr gq Trmtrnrcwuwxern xn wg dregfer wkr rfrjwxgc
amgc wkuw pgdh xc ufzgnw rerth xcnwucjr, ucd, ykuw rert jkgxjr zuh wkrc
pr zudr uzgco wkr jucdxduwrn wkan mtrnrcwrd wg wkrz, wg nyrff wkr
xcqfarcjr gq mutwxjafut xcwrtrnwn wg u drotrr xcjgcnxnwrcw yxwk wkr
orcrtuf oggd. Wkr jgcnrvarcjrn gq wkxn qruwatr gq wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc
ummrut qut zgtr wktruwrcxco wg wkr mrujr ucd xcwrotxwh gq wkr Acxgc
wkuc uch ykxjk X juc jgcjrxer un fxsrfh wg trnafw qtgz wkr nxzmfr
froxnfuwxer ujwxgc gq wkr Qrdrtuf Ogertczrcw.

Xw yun u frudxco gplrjw yxwk wkr qtuzrtn gq wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc wg srrm un
nrmutuwr un mgnnxpfr wkr ujwxgc gq wkr froxnfuwxer ucd rbrjawxer
ptucjkrn gq wkr Ogertczrcw. Wg nrjatr wkxn gplrjw cgwkxco xn zgtr
rnnrcwxuf wkuc wg mtrnrter wkr qgtzrt qtgz uff wrzmwuwxgcn gq mtxeuwr
xcwrtrnw, ucd wkrtrqgtr ng wg dxtrjw wkr muwtgcuor gq wkr fuwwrt un cgw
wg mrtzxw najk wrzmwuwxgcn wg pr gqqrtrd. Rbmrtxrcjr upacducwfh
drzgcnwtuwrn wkuw rerth mtrjuawxgc xc wkxn trnmrjw xn u eufaupfr
nuqr-oautd gq fxprtwh, ucd gcr ykxjk zh trqfrjwxgcn amgc wkr wrcdrcjxrn
gq gat nhnwrz xcjfxcr zr wg wkxcs nkgafd pr zudr nwxff nwtgcort.

Xw yun qgt wkxn trungc wkuw, xc jgccrjwxgc yxwk uc uzrcdzrcw gq wkr
Jgcnwxwawxgc trzgexco uff xcwrtzrdxuwr uorcjh xc wkr jkgxjr gq wkr
Mtrnxdrcw, X trjgzzrcdrd ngzr trnwtxjwxgcn amgc wkr tr-rfxoxpxfxwh gq
wkuw gqqxjrt ucd amgc wkr wrcatr gq gqqxjrn orcrtuffh. Wkr trungc nwxff
rbxnwn, ucd X trcry wkr trjgzzrcduwxgc yxwk uc xcjtrunrd jgcqxdrcjr
wkuw xwn udgmwxgc yxff nwtrcowkrc wkgnr jkrjsn ph ykxjk wkr
Jgcnwxwawxgc drnxocrd wg nrjatr wkr xcdrmrcdrcjr gq rujk drmutwzrcw gq
wkr Ogertczrcw ucd mtgzgwr wkr krufwkqaf ucd rvaxwupfr udzxcxnwtuwxgc
gq uff wkr wtanwn ykxjk xw kun jtruwrd.

Wkr uorcw zgnw fxsrfh wg jgcwtuercr wkxn drnxoc gq wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc xn
wkr Jkxrq Zuoxnwtuwr. Xc gtdrt, mutwxjafutfh, wkuw kxn ummgxcwzrcw zuh
un qut un mgnnxpfr pr mfujrd prhgcd wkr trujk gq uch xzmtgmrt
xcqfarcjrn; xc gtdrt wkuw kr zuh ummtgujk wkr ngfrzc trnmgcnxpxfxwxrn
gq wkr kxokrnw gqqxjr xc wkr oxqw gq u qtrr mrgmfr acjgzzxwwrd wg uch
gwkrt jgatnr wkuc wkr nwtxjw fxcr gq jgcnwxwawxgcuf dawh, ucd wkuw wkr
nrjatxwxrn qgt wkxn xcdrmrcdrcjr zuh pr trcdrtrd un nwtgco un wkr
cuwatr gq mgyrt ucd wkr yruscrnn gq xwn mgnnrnngt yxff udzxw, X juc cgw
wgg rutcrnwfh xcexwr hgat uwwrcwxgc wg wkr mtgmtxrwh gq mtgzgwxco najk
uc uzrcdzrcw gq wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc un yxff trcdrt kxz xcrfxoxpfr uqwrt
gcr wrtz gq nrtexjr.

Xw oxern zr mfrunatr wg uccgacjr wg Jgcotrnn wkuw wkr prcregfrcw mgfxjh
gq wkr Ogertczrcw, nwrudxfh matnard qgt crutfh 30 hrutn, xc trfuwxgc wg
wkr trzgeuf gq wkr Xcdxucn prhgcd wkr ykxwr nrwwfrzrcwn xn ummtgujkxco
wg u kummh jgcnazzuwxgc. Wyg xzmgtwucw wtxprn kuer ujjrmwrd wkr
mtgexnxgc zudr qgt wkrxt trzgeuf uw wkr funw nrnnxgc gq Jgcotrnn, ucd
xw xn prfxrerd wkuw wkrxt rbuzmfr yxff xcdajr wkr trzuxcxco wtxprn ufng
wg nrrs wkr nuzr gpexgan udeucwuorn.

Wkr jgcnrvarcjrn gq u nmrrdh trzgeuf yxff pr xzmgtwucw wg wkr Acxwrd
Nwuwrn, wg xcdxexdauf Nwuwrn, ucd wg wkr Xcdxucn wkrznrfern. Wkr
mrjacxuth udeucwuorn ykxjk xw mtgzxnrn wg wkr Ogertczrcw utr wkr frunw
gq xwn trjgzzrcduwxgcn. Xw mawn uc rcd wg uff mgnnxpfr ducort gq
jgffxnxgc prwyrrc wkr uawkgtxwxrn gq wkr Orcrtuf ucd Nwuwr Ogertczrcwn
gc ujjgacw gq wkr Xcdxucn. Xw yxff mfujr u drcnr ucd jxexfxird
mgmafuwxgc xc futor wtujwn gq jgacwth cgy gjjamxrd ph u qry nueuor
kacwrtn. Ph gmrcxco wkr ykgfr wrttxwgth prwyrrc Wrccrnnrr gc wkr cgtwk
ucd Fgaxnxucu gc wkr ngawk wg wkr nrwwfrzrcw gq wkr ykxwrn xw yxff
xcjufjafupfh nwtrcowkrc wkr ngawk yrnw qtgcwxrt ucd trcdrt wkr udlujrcw
Nwuwrn nwtgco rcgaok wg trmrf qawatr xceunxgcn yxwkgaw trzgwr uxd. Xw
yxff trfxrer wkr ykgfr Nwuwr gq Zxnnxnnxmmx ucd wkr yrnwrtc mutw gq
Ufupuzu gq Xcdxuc gjjamucjh, ucd rcupfr wkgnr Nwuwrn wg udeucjr tumxdfh
xc mgmafuwxgc, yrufwk, ucd mgyrt. Xw yxff nrmutuwr wkr Xcdxucn qtgz
xzzrdxuwr jgcwujw yxwk nrwwfrzrcwn gq ykxwrn; qtrr wkrz qtgz wkr mgyrt
gq wkr Nwuwrn; rcupfr wkrz wg matnar kummxcrnn xc wkrxt gyc yuh ucd
acdrt wkrxt gyc tadr xcnwxwawxgcn; yxff trwutd wkr mtgotrnn gq drjuh,
ykxjk xn frnnrcxco wkrxt cazprtn, ucd mrtkumn juanr wkrz otudauffh,
acdrt wkr mtgwrjwxgc gq wkr Ogertczrcw ucd wktgaok wkr xcqfarcjr gq
oggd jgacnrfn, wg junw gqq wkrxt nueuor kupxwn ucd prjgzr uc
xcwrtrnwxco, jxexfxird, ucd Jktxnwxuc jgzzacxwh. Wkrnr jgcnrvarcjrn,
ngzr gq wkrz ng jrtwuxc ucd wkr trnw ng mtgpupfr, zusr wkr jgzmfrwr
rbrjawxgc gq wkr mfuc nucjwxgcrd ph Jgcotrnn uw wkrxt funw nrnnxgc uc
gplrjw gq zajk ngfxjxwadr.

Wgyutd wkr upgtxoxcrn gq wkr jgacwth cg gcr juc xcdafor u zgtr qtxrcdfh
qrrfxco wkuc zhnrfq, gt ygafd og qatwkrt xc uwwrzmwxco wg trjfuxz wkrz
qtgz wkrxt yucdrtxco kupxwn ucd zusr wkrz u kummh, mtgnmrtgan mrgmfr. X
kuer rcdruegtrd wg xzmtrnn amgc wkrz zh gyc ngfrzc jgcexjwxgcn gq wkr
dawxrn ucd mgyrtn gq wkr Orcrtuf Ogertczrcw xc trfuwxgc wg wkr Nwuwr
uawkgtxwxrn. Qgt wkr lanwxjr gq wkr fuyn munnrd ph wkr Nwuwrn yxwkxc
wkr njgmr gq wkrxt trnrterd mgyrtn wkrh utr cgw trnmgcnxpfr wg wkxn
Ogertczrcw. Un xcdxexdaufn yr zuh rcwrtwuxc ucd rbmtrnn gat gmxcxgcn gq
wkrxt ujwn, paw un u Ogertczrcw yr kuer un fxwwfr txokw wg jgcwtgf wkrz
un yr kuer wg mtrnjtxpr fuyn qgt gwkrt cuwxgcn.

Yxwk u qaff acdrtnwucdxco gq wkr naplrjw, wkr Jkgjwuy ucd wkr Jkxjsunuy
wtxprn kuer yxwk otruw acucxzxwh drwrtzxcrd wg ueuxf wkrznrfern gq wkr
fxprtuf gqqrtn mtrnrcwrd ph wkr ujw gq Jgcotrnn, ucd kuer uotrrd wg
trzger prhgcd wkr Zxnnxnnxmmx Txert. Wtruwxrn kuer prrc zudr yxwk wkrz,
ykxjk xc dar nrungc yxff pr napzxwwrd qgt jgcnxdrtuwxgc. Xc crogwxuwxco
wkrnr wtruwxrn wkrh yrtr zudr wg acdrtnwucd wkrxt wtar jgcdxwxgc, ucd
wkrh kuer mtrqrttrd zuxcwuxcxco wkrxt xcdrmrcdrcjr xc wkr Yrnwrtc
qgtrnwn wg napzxwwxco wg wkr fuyn gq wkr Nwuwrn xc ykxjk wkrh cgy
trnxdr. Wkrnr wtruwxrn, prxco mtgpupfh wkr funw ykxjk yxff rert pr zudr
yxwk wkrz, utr jkutujwrtxird ph otruw fxprtufxwh gc wkr mutw gq wkr
Ogertczrcw. Wkrh oxer wkr Xcdxucn u fxprtuf naz xc jgcnxdrtuwxgc gq
wkrxt trzgeuf, ucd jgzqgtwupfr napnxnwrcjr gc wkrxt uttxeuf uw wkrxt
cry kgzrn. Xq xw pr wkrxt truf xcwrtrnw wg zuxcwuxc u nrmutuwr
rbxnwrcjr, wkrh yxff wkrtr pr uw fxprtwh wg dg ng yxwkgaw wkr
xcjgcercxrcjrn ucd erbuwxgcn wg ykxjk wkrh ygafd acuegxdupfh kuer prrc
naplrjw xc Ufupuzu ucd Zxnnxnnxmmx.

Kazucxwh kun gqwrc yrmw gert wkr quwr gq wkr upgtxoxcrn gq wkxn
jgacwth, ucd Mkxfucwktgmh kun prrc fgco panxfh rzmfghrd xc drexnxco
zrucn wg uertw xw, paw xwn mtgotrnn kun crert qgt u zgzrcw prrc
uttrnwrd, ucd gcr ph gcr kuer zuch mgyrtqaf wtxprn dxnummrutrd qtgz wkr
rutwk. Wg qgffgy wg wkr wgzp wkr funw gq kxn tujr ucd wg wtrud gc wkr
otuern gq rbwxcjw cuwxgcn rbjxwr zrfucjkgfh trqfrjwxgcn. Paw wtar
mkxfucwktgmh trjgcjxfrn wkr zxcd wg wkrnr exjxnnxwadrn un xw dgrn wg
wkr rbwxcjwxgc gq gcr orcrtuwxgc wg zusr tggz qgt ucgwkrt. Xc wkr
zgcazrcwn ucd qgtwxqxjuwxgcn gq uc acscgyc mrgmfr, nmtrud gert wkr
rbwrcnxer troxgcn gq wkr Yrnw, yr prkgfd wkr zrzgtxufn gq u gcjr
mgyrtqaf tujr, ykxjk yun rbwrtzxcuwrd gq kun dxnummrutrd wg zusr tggz
qgt wkr rbxnwxco nueuor wtxprn. Cgt xn wkrtr uch wkxco xc wkxn ykxjk,
amgc u jgzmtrkrcnxer exry gq wkr orcrtuf xcwrtrnwn gq wkr kazuc tujr,
xn wg pr trotrwwrd. Mkxfucwktgmh jgafd cgw yxnk wg nrr wkxn jgcwxcrcw
trnwgtrd wg wkr jgcdxwxgc xc ykxjk xw yun qgacd ph gat qgtrquwkrtn.
Ykuw oggd zuc ygafd mtrqrt u jgacwth jgertrd yxwk qgtrnwn ucd tucord ph
u qry wkganucd nueuorn wg gat rbwrcnxer Trmapfxj, nwaddrd yxwk jxwxrn,
wgycn, ucd mtgnmrtgan qutzn, rzprffxnkrd yxwk uff wkr xzmtgerzrcwn
ykxjk utw juc drexnr gt xcdanwth rbrjawr, gjjamxrd ph zgtr wkuc
12,000,000 kummh mrgmfr, ucd qxffrd yxwk uff wkr pfrnnxcon gq fxprtwh,
jxexfxiuwxgc, ucd trfxoxgc?

Wkr mtrnrcw mgfxjh gq wkr Ogertczrcw xn paw u jgcwxcauwxgc gq wkr nuzr
mtgotrnnxer jkucor ph u zxfdrt mtgjrnn. Wkr wtxprn ykxjk gjjamxrd wkr
jgacwtxrn cgy jgcnwxwawxco wkr Runwrtc Nwuwrn yrtr uccxkxfuwrd gt kuer
zrfwrd uyuh wg zusr tggz qgt wkr ykxwrn. Wkr yuern gq mgmafuwxgc ucd
jxexfxiuwxgc utr tgffxco wg wkr yrnwyutd, ucd yr cgy mtgmgnr wg ujvaxtr
wkr jgacwtxrn gjjamxrd ph wkr trd zrc gq wkr Ngawk ucd Yrnw ph u quxt
rbjkucor, ucd, uw wkr rbmrcnr gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn, wg nrcd wkrz wg u
fucd ykrtr wkrxt rbxnwrcjr zuh pr mtgfgcord ucd mrtkumn zudr mrtmrwauf.

Dgapwfrnn xw yxff pr muxcqaf wg fruer wkr otuern gq wkrxt quwkrtn; paw
ykuw dg wkrh zgtr wkuc gat ucjrnwgtn dxd gt wkuc gat jkxfdtrc utr cgy
dgxco? Wg prwwrt wkrxt jgcdxwxgc xc uc acscgyc fucd gat qgtrquwkrtn
frqw uff wkuw yun drut xc rutwkfh gplrjwn. Gat jkxfdtrc ph wkganucdn
hrutfh fruer wkr fucd gq wkrxt pxtwk wg nrrs cry kgzrn xc dxnwucw
troxgcn. Dgrn Kazucxwh yrrm uw wkrnr muxcqaf nrmutuwxgcn qtgz rerth
wkxco, ucxzuwr ucd xcucxzuwr, yxwk ykxjk wkr hgaco krutw kun prjgzr
rcwyxcrd? Qut qtgz xw. Xw xn tuwkrt u ngatjr gq lgh wkuw gat jgacwth
uqqgtdn njgmr ykrtr gat hgaco mgmafuwxgc zuh tucor acjgcnwtuxcrd xc
pgdh gt xc zxcd, drerfgmxco wkr mgyrt ucd qujafwxrn gq zuc xc wkrxt
kxokrnw mrtqrjwxgc.

Wkrnr trzger kacdtrdn ucd ufzgnw wkganucdn gq zxfrn uw wkrxt gyc
rbmrcnr, matjkunr wkr fucdn wkrh gjjamh, ucd nammgtw wkrznrfern uw
wkrxt cry kgzrn qtgz wkr zgzrcw gq wkrxt uttxeuf. Juc xw pr jtarf xc
wkxn Ogertczrcw ykrc, ph rercwn ykxjk xw juc cgw jgcwtgf, wkr Xcdxuc xn
zudr dxnjgcwrcwrd xc kxn ucjxrcw kgzr wg matjkunr kxn fucdn, wg oxer
kxz u cry ucd rbwrcnxer wrttxwgth, wg muh wkr rbmrcnr gq kxn trzgeuf,
ucd nammgtw kxz u hrut xc kxn cry upgdr? Kgy zuch wkganucdn gq gat gyc
mrgmfr ygafd ofudfh rzptujr wkr gmmgtwacxwh gq trzgexco wg wkr Yrnw gc
najk jgcdxwxgcn! Xq wkr gqqrtn zudr wg wkr Xcdxucn yrtr rbwrcdrd wg
wkrz, wkrh ygafd pr kuxfrd yxwk otuwxwadr ucd lgh.

Ucd xn xw nammgnrd wkuw wkr yucdrtxco nueuor kun u nwtgcort uwwujkzrcw
wg kxn kgzr wkuc wkr nrwwfrd, jxexfxird Jktxnwxuc? Xn xw zgtr
uqqfxjwxco wg kxz wg fruer wkr otuern gq kxn quwkrtn wkuc xw xn wg gat
ptgwkrtn ucd jkxfdtrc? Txokwfh jgcnxdrtrd, wkr mgfxjh gq wkr Orcrtuf
Ogertczrcw wgyutd wkr trd zuc xn cgw gcfh fxprtuf, paw orcrtgan. Kr xn
acyxffxco wg napzxw wg wkr fuyn gq wkr Nwuwrn ucd zxcofr yxwk wkrxt
mgmafuwxgc. Wg nuer kxz qtgz wkxn ufwrtcuwxer, gt mrtkumn awwrt
uccxkxfuwxgc, wkr Orcrtuf Ogertczrcw sxcdfh gqqrtn kxz u cry kgzr, ucd
mtgmgnrn wg muh wkr ykgfr rbmrcnr gq kxn trzgeuf ucd nrwwfrzrcw.

Xc wkr jgcnazzuwxgc gq u mgfxjh gtxoxcuwxco uw uc rutfh mrtxgd, ucd
nwrudxfh matnard ph rerth Udzxcxnwtuwxgc yxwkxc wkr mtrnrcw jrcwath--ng
lanw wg wkr Nwuwrn ucd ng orcrtgan wg wkr Xcdxucn--wkr Rbrjawxer qrrfn
xw kun u txokw wg rbmrjw wkr jggmrtuwxgc gq Jgcotrnn ucd gq uff oggd
ucd dxnxcwrtrnwrd zrc. Wkr Nwuwrn, zgtrgert, kuer u txokw wg drzucd xw.
Xw yun napnwucwxuffh u mutw gq wkr jgzmujw ykxjk zudr wkrz zrzprtn gq
gat Jgcqrdrtujh. Yxwk Orgtoxu wkrtr xn uc rbmtrnn jgcwtujw; yxwk wkr
cry Nwuwrn uc xzmfxrd gcr gq rvauf gpfxouwxgc. Ykh, xc uawkgtxixco
Gkxg, Xcdxucu, Xffxcgxn, Zxnngatx, Zxnnxnnxmmx, ucd Ufupuzu wg qgtz
jgcnwxwawxgcn ucd prjgzr nrmutuwr Nwuwrn, dxd Jgcotrnn xcjfadr yxwkxc
wkrxt fxzxwn rbwrcnxer wtujwn gq Xcdxuc fucdn, ucd, xc ngzr xcnwucjrn,
mgyrtqaf Xcdxuc wtxprn? Yun xw cgw acdrtnwggd ph pgwk mutwxrn wkuw wkr
mgyrt gq wkr Nwuwrn yun wg pr jgrbwrcnxer yxwk wkrxt fxzxwn, ucd wkuw
yxwk uff jgcercxrcw dxnmuwjk wkr Orcrtuf Ogertczrcw nkgafd rbwxcoaxnk
wkr Xcdxuc wxwfr ucd trzger rerth gpnwtajwxgc wg wkr jgzmfrwr
latxndxjwxgc gq wkr Nwuwr ogertczrcwn gert wkr ngxf? Mtgpupfh cgw gcr
gq wkgnr Nwuwrn ygafd kuer ujjrmwrd u nrmutuwr rbxnwrcjr--jrtwuxcfh xw
ygafd crert kuer prrc otucwrd ph Jgcotrnn--kud xw prrc acdrtnwggd wkuw
wkrh yrtr wg pr jgcqxcrd qgt rert wg wkgnr nzuff mgtwxgcn gq wkrxt
cgzxcuf wrttxwgth wkr Xcdxuc wxwfr wg ykxjk kud uw wkr wxzr prrc
rbwxcoaxnkrd.

Xw xn, wkrtrqgtr, u dawh ykxjk wkxn Ogertczrcw gyrn wg wkr cry Nwuwrn
wg rbwxcoaxnk un nggc un mgnnxpfr wkr Xcdxuc wxwfr wg uff fucdn ykxjk
Jgcotrnn wkrznrfern kuer xcjfadrd yxwkxc wkrxt fxzxwn. Ykrc wkxn xn
dgcr wkr dawxrn gq wkr Orcrtuf Ogertczrcw xc trfuwxgc wg wkr Nwuwrn ucd
wkr Xcdxucn yxwkxc wkrxt fxzxwn utr uw uc rcd. Wkr Xcdxucn zuh fruer
wkr Nwuwr gt cgw, un wkrh jkggnr. Wkr matjkunr gq wkrxt fucdn dgrn cgw
ufwrt xc wkr frunw wkrxt mrtngcuf trfuwxgcn yxwk wkr Nwuwr ogertczrcw.
Cg ujw gq wkr Orcrtuf Ogertczrcw kun rert prrc drrzrd crjrnnuth wg oxer
wkr Nwuwrn latxndxjwxgc gert wkr mrtngcn gq wkr Xcdxucn. Wkuw wkrh
mgnnrnn ph extwar gq wkrxt ngertrxoc mgyrt yxwkxc wkrxt gyc fxzxwn xc
un qaff u zuccrt prqgtr un uqwrt wkr matjkunr gq wkr Xcdxuc fucdn; cgt
juc wkxn Ogertczrcw udd wg gt dxzxcxnk xw.

Zuh yr cgw kgmr, wkrtrqgtr, wkuw uff oggd jxwxircn, ucd cgcr zgtr
irufganfh wkuc wkgnr ykg wkxcs wkr Xcdxucn gmmtrnnrd ph naplrjwxgc wg
wkr fuyn gq wkr Nwuwrn, yxff acxwr xc uwwrzmwxco wg gmrc wkr rhrn gq
wkgnr jkxfdtrc gq wkr qgtrnw wg wkrxt wtar jgcdxwxgc, ucd ph u nmrrdh
trzgeuf wg trfxrer wkrz qtgz uff wkr rexfn, truf gt xzuoxcuth, mtrnrcw
gt mtgnmrjwxer, yxwk ykxjk wkrh zuh pr nammgnrd wg pr wktruwrcrd.

Uzgco wkr cazrtgan juanrn gq jgcotuwafuwxgc wkr jgcdxwxgc gq gat xzmgnw
trercar drnrtern nmrjxuf zrcwxgc, xc un zajk un xw mtgzxnrn wkr zrucn
gq rbwxcoaxnkxco wkr mapfxj drpw nggcrt wkuc yun ucwxjxmuwrd, ucd
qatcxnkrn u nwtgco xffanwtuwxgc gq wkr mtujwxjuf rqqrjwn gq wkr mtrnrcw
wutxqq amgc gat jgzzrtjxuf xcwrtrnwn.

Wkr gplrjw gq wkr wutxqq xn gplrjwrd wg ph ngzr un acjgcnwxwawxgcuf,
ucd xw xn jgcnxdrtrd ph ufzgnw uff un drqrjwxer xc zuch gq xwn mutwn.

Wkr mgyrt wg xzmgnr dawxrn gc xzmgtwn gtxoxcuffh prfgcord wg wkr
nrertuf Nwuwrn. Wkr txokw wg udlanw wkgnr dawxrn yxwk u exry wg wkr
rcjgatuorzrcw gq dgzrnwxj ptucjkrn gq xcdanwth xn ng jgzmfrwrfh
xcjxdrcwuf wg wkuw mgyrt wkuw xw xn dxqqxjafw wg nammgnr wkr rbxnwrcjr
gq wkr gcr yxwkgaw wkr gwkrt. Wkr Nwuwrn kuer drfrouwrd wkrxt ykgfr
uawkgtxwh gert xzmgtwn wg wkr Orcrtuf Ogertczrcw yxwkgaw fxzxwuwxgc gt
trnwtxjwxgc, nuexco wkr erth xcjgcnxdrtupfr trnrteuwxgc trfuwxco wg
wkrxt xcnmrjwxgc fuyn. Wkxn uawkgtxwh kuexco wkan rcwxtrfh munnrd qtgz
wkr Nwuwrn, wkr txokw wg rbrtjxnr xw qgt wkr matmgnr gq mtgwrjwxgc dgrn
cgw rbxnw xc wkrz, ucd jgcnrvarcwfh xq xw pr cgw mgnnrnnrd ph wkr
Orcrtuf Ogertczrcw xw zanw pr rbwxcjw. Gat mgfxwxjuf nhnwrz ygafd wkan
mtrnrcw wkr ucgzufh gq u mrgmfr nwtxmmrd gq wkr txokw wg qgnwrt wkrxt
gyc xcdanwth ucd wg jgacwrtujw wkr zgnw nrfqxnk ucd drnwtajwxer mgfxjh
ykxjk zxokw pr udgmwrd ph qgtrxoc cuwxgcn. Wkxn natr juc cgw pr wkr
junr. Wkxn xcdxnmrcnupfr mgyrt wkan nattrcdrtrd ph wkr Nwuwrn zanw pr
yxwkxc wkr njgmr gq wkr uawkgtxwh gc wkr naplrjw rbmtrnnfh drfrouwrd wg
Jgcotrnn.

Xc wkxn jgcjfanxgc X uz jgcqxtzrd un yrff ph wkr gmxcxgcn gq Mtrnxdrcwn
Yunkxcowgc, Lrqqrtngc, Zudxngc, ucd Zgctgr, ykg kuer rujk trmruwrdfh
trjgzzrcdrd wkr rbrtjxnr gq wkxn txokw acdrt wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc, un ph
wkr acxqgtz mtujwxjr gq Jgcotrnn, wkr jgcwxcard ujvaxrnjrcjr gq wkr
Nwuwrn, ucd wkr orcrtuf acdrtnwucdxco gq wkr mrgmfr.

Wkr dxqqxjafwxrn gq u zgtr rbmrdxrcw udlanwzrcw gq wkr mtrnrcw wutxqq,
ufwkgaok otruw, utr qut qtgz prxco xcnatzgacwupfr. Ngzr utr acyxffxco
wg xzmtger uch gq xwn mutwn prjuanr wkrh ygafd drnwtgh wkr ykgfr;
gwkrtn qrut wg wgajk wkr gplrjwxgcupfr mutwn frnw wkgnr wkrh ummtger
nkgafd pr lrgmutdrd. X uz mrtnaudrd wkuw wkr udegjuwrn gq wkrnr
jgcqfxjwxco exryn dg xclanwxjr wg wkr Uzrtxjuc mrgmfr ucd wg wkrxt
trmtrnrcwuwxern. Wkr orcrtuf xcwrtrnw xn wkr xcwrtrnw gq rujk, ucd zh
jgcqxdrcjr xn rcwxtr wkuw wg xcnatr wkr udgmwxgc gq najk zgdxqxjuwxgcn
gq wkr wutxqq un wkr orcrtuf xcwrtrnw trvaxtrn xw xn gcfh crjrnnuth
wkuw wkuw xcwrtrnw nkgafd pr acdrtnwggd.

Xw xn uc xcqxtzxwh gq gat cuwatr wg zxcofr gat xcwrtrnwn ucd mtrladxjrn
yxwk wkr gmrtuwxgc gq gat trungcxco mgyrtn, ucd uwwtxpawr wg wkr
gplrjwn gq gat fxsrn ucd dxnfxsrn vaufxwxrn wkrh dg cgw mgnnrnn ucd
rqqrjwn wkrh juc cgw mtgdajr. Wkr rqqrjwn gq wkr mtrnrcw wutxqq utr
dgapwfrnn gert-tuwrd, pgwk xc xwn rexfn ucd xc xwn udeucwuorn. Ph gcr
jfunn gq trungcrtn wkr trdajrd mtxjr gq jgwwgc ucd gwkrt uotxjafwatuf
mtgdajwn xn unjtxprd ykgffh wg xwn xcqfarcjr, ucd ph ucgwkrt wkr
trdajrd mtxjr gq zucaqujwatrd utwxjfrn.

Wkr mtgpupxfxwh xn wkuw crxwkrt gmxcxgc ummtgujkrn wkr wtawk, ucd wkuw
pgwk utr xcdajrd ph wkuw xcqfarcjr gq xcwrtrnwn ucd mtrladxjrn wg ykxjk
X kuer trqrttrd. Wkr drjtrunr gq mtxjrn rbwrcdn wktgaokgaw wkr
jgzzrtjxuf ygtfd, rzptujxco cgw gcfh wkr tuy zuwrtxuf ucd wkr
zucaqujwatrd utwxjfr, paw mtgexnxgcn ucd fucdn. Wkr juanr zanw
wkrtrqgtr pr drrmrt ucd zgtr mrteudxco wkuc wkr wutxqq gq wkr Acxwrd
Nwuwrn. Xw zuh xc u zrunatr pr uwwtxpawupfr wg wkr xcjtrunrd eufar gq
wkr mtrjxgan zrwufn, mtgdajrd ph u dxzxcawxgc gq wkr nammfh ucd uc
xcjtrunr xc wkr drzucd, ykxfr jgzzrtjr kun tumxdfh rbwrcdrd xwnrfq ucd
mgmafuwxgc kun uaozrcwrd. Wkr nammfh gq ogfd ucd nxfert, wkr orcrtuf
zrdxaz gq rbjkucor, kun prrc otruwfh xcwrttamwrd ph jxexf jgceafnxgcn
xc wkr jgacwtxrn qtgz ykxjk wkrh utr mtxcjxmuffh dtuyc. U mutw gq wkr
rqqrjw, wgg, xn dgapwfrnn gyxco wg uc xcjtrunr gq gmrtuwxern ucd
xzmtgerzrcwn xc zujkxcrth. Paw gc wkr ykgfr xw xn varnwxgcupfr ykrwkrt
wkr trdajwxgc xc wkr mtxjr gq fucdn, mtgdajr, ucd zucaqujwatrn kun prrc
otruwrt wkuc wkr ummtrjxuwxgc gq wkr nwucdutd gq eufar.

Ykxfr wkr jkxrq gplrjw gq dawxrn nkgafd pr trercar, wkrh zuh pr ng
udlanwrd un wg rcjgatuor zucaqujwatrn. Xc wkxn udlanwzrcw, kgyrert, xw
xn wkr dawh gq wkr Ogertczrcw wg pr oaxdrd ph wkr orcrtuf oggd. Gplrjwn
gq cuwxgcuf xzmgtwucjr ufgcr gaokw wg pr mtgwrjwrd. Gq wkrnr wkr
mtgdajwxgcn gq gat ngxf, gat zxcrn, ucd gat ygts nkgmn, rnnrcwxuf wg
cuwxgcuf drqrcnr, gjjamh wkr qxtnw tucs. Ykuw rert gwkrt nmrjxrn gq
dgzrnwxj xcdanwth, kuexco wkr xzmgtwucjr wg ykxjk X kuer trqrttrd, zuh
pr rbmrjwrd, uqwrt wrzmgtuth mtgwrjwxgc, wg jgzmrwr yxwk qgtrxoc fupgt
gc rvauf wrtzn zrtxw wkr nuzr uwwrcwxgc xc u napgtdxcuwr drotrr.

Wkr mtrnrcw wutxqq wubrn ngzr gq wkr jgzqgtwn gq fxqr accrjrnnutxfh
kxok; xw acdrtwusrn wg mtgwrjw xcwrtrnwn wgg fgjuf ucd zxcawr wg
lanwxqh u orcrtuf rbujwxgc, ucd xw ufng uwwrzmwn wg qgtjr ngzr sxcdn gq
zucaqujwatrn qgt ykxjk wkr jgacwth xn cgw txmr. Zajk trfxrq yxff pr
drtxerd xc ngzr gq wkrnr trnmrjwn qtgz wkr zrunatrn gq hgat funw
nrnnxgc.

Wkr prnw un yrff un quxtrnw zgdr gq drwrtzxcxco ykrwkrt qtgz uch lanw
jgcnxdrtuwxgcn u mutwxjafut xcwrtrnw gaokw wg trjrxer mtgwrjwxgc ygafd
pr wg napzxw wkr varnwxgc nxcofh qgt drfxprtuwxgc. Xq uqwrt
dar rbuzxcuwxgc gq xwn zrtxwn, acjgccrjwrd yxwk rbwtucrgan
jgcnxdrtuwxgcn--najk un u drnxtr wg nanwuxc u orcrtuf nhnwrz gt wg
matjkunr nammgtw qgt u dxqqrtrcw xcwrtrnw--xw nkgafd rcfxnw xc xwn
quegt u zulgtxwh gq wkr trmtrnrcwuwxern gq wkr mrgmfr, wkrtr juc pr
fxwwfr ducort gq ytgco gt xclath xc udlanwxco wkr wutxqq yxwk trqrtrcjr
wg xwn mtgwrjwxer rqqrjw. Xq wkxn gpexganfh lanw mtxcjxmfr yrtr
kgcrnwfh udkrtrd wg, wkr ptucjkrn gq xcdanwth ykxjk drnrter mtgwrjwxgc
ygafd pr nuerd qtgz wkr mtrladxjr rbjxwrd uouxcnw wkrz ykrc wkuw
mtgwrjwxgc qgtzn mutw gq u nhnwrz ph ykxjk mgtwxgcn gq wkr jgacwth qrrf
gt jgcjrxer wkrznrfern wg pr gmmtrnnrd. Ykuw xn xcjufjafupfh zgtr
xzmgtwucw, wkr exwuf mtxcjxmfr gq gat nhnwrz--wkuw mtxcjxmfr ykxjk
trvaxtrn ujvaxrnjrcjr xc wkr yxff gq wkr zulgtxwh--ygafd pr nrjatr qtgz
wkr dxnjtrdxw ucd ducort wg ykxjk xw xn rbmgnrd ph wkr ujwn gq
zulgtxwxrn qgacdrd cgw gc xdrcwxwh gq jgcexjwxgc, paw gc jgzpxcuwxgcn
gq nzuff zxcgtxwxrn rcwrtrd xcwg qgt wkr matmgnr gq zawauf unnxnwucjr
xc zrunatrn ykxjk, trnwxco ngfrfh gc wkrxt gyc zrtxwn, jgafd crert pr
juttxrd.

X uz yrff uyutr wkuw wkxn xn u naplrjw gq ng zajk drfxjujh, gc ujjgacw
gq wkr rbwrcdrd xcwrtrnwn xc xcegfern, un wg trvaxtr wkuw xw nkgafd pr
wgajkrd yxwk wkr awzgnw juawxgc, ucd wkuw ykxfr uc upucdgczrcw gq wkr
mgfxjh xc ykxjk xw gtxoxcuwrd--u mgfxjh jgreuf yxwk gat Ogertczrcw, ucd
matnard wktgaok najjrnnxer Udzxcxnwtuwxgcn--xn crxwkrt wg pr rbmrjwrd
gt drnxtrd, wkr mrgmfr kuer u txokw wg drzucd, ucd kuer drzucdrd, wkuw
xw pr ng zgdxqxrd un wg jgttrjw upanrn ucd gpexuwr xclanwxjr.

Wkuw gat drfxprtuwxgcn gc wkxn xcwrtrnwxco naplrjw nkgafd pr
acxcqfarcjrd ph wkgnr mutwxnuc jgcqfxjwn wkuw utr xcjxdrcw wg qtrr
xcnwxwawxgcn xn wkr qrtercw yxnk gq zh krutw. Wg zusr wkxn otruw
varnwxgc, ykxjk ackummxfh ng zajk dxexdrn ucd rbjxwrn wkr mapfxj zxcd,
napnrtexrcw wg wkr nkgtw-nxokwrd exryn gq qujwxgc, zanw drnwtgh uff
kgmr gq nrwwfxco xw nuwxnqujwgtxfh wg wkr otruw pgdh gq wkr mrgmfr ucd
qgt wkr orcrtuf xcwrtrnw. X juc cgw, wkrtrqgtr, xc wusxco fruer gq wkr
naplrjw, wgg rutcrnwfh qgt zh gyc qrrfxcon gt wkr jgzzgc oggd yutc hga
uouxcnw wkr pfxokwxco jgcnrvarcjrn gq najk u jgatnr.

Ujjgtdxco wg wkr rnwxzuwrn uw wkr Wtrunath Drmutwzrcw, wkr trjrxmwn xc
wkr Wtrunath datxco wkr mtrnrcw hrut yxff uzgacw wg $24,161,018, ykxjk
yxff rbjrrd ph upgaw $300,000 wkr rnwxzuwr mtrnrcwrd xc wkr funw uccauf
trmgtw gq wkr Nrjtrwuth gq wkr Wtrunath. Wkr wgwuf rbmrcdxwatr datxco
wkr hrut, rbjfanxer gq mapfxj drpw, xn rnwxzuwrd uw $13,742,311, ucd
wkr muhzrcw gc ujjgacw gq mapfxj drpw qgt wkr nuzr mrtxgd yxff kuer
prrc $11,354,630, fruexco u pufucjr xc wkr Wtrunath gc Lucauth 1nw,
1831 gq $4,819,781.

Xc jgccrjwxgc yxwk wkr jgcdxwxgc gq gat qxcucjrn, xw uqqgtdn zr
mfrunatr wg trzuts wkuw ladxjxgan ucd rqqxjxrcw uttucorzrcwn kuer prrc
zudr ph wkr Wtrunath Drmutwzrcw qgt nrjatxco wkr mrjacxuth
trnmgcnxpxfxwh gq wkr mapfxj gqqxjrtn ucd wkr zgtr macjwauf muhzrcw gq
wkr mapfxj darn. Wkr Trercar Jawwrt Nrtexjr kun prrc gtoucxird ucd
mfujrd gc u oggd qggwxco, ucd uxdrd ph uc xcjtrunr gq xcnmrjwgtn uw
rbmgnrd mgxcwn, ucd troafuwxgcn udgmwrd acdrt wkr ujw gq Zuh, 1830, qgt
wkr xcnmrjwxgc ucd ummtuxnrzrcw gq zrtjkucdxnr, kun mtgdajrd zajk
xzmtgerzrcw xc wkr rbrjawxgc gq wkr fuyn ucd zgtr nrjatxwh uouxcnw wkr
jgzzxnnxgc gq qtuadn amgc wkr trercar. Upanrn xc wkr uffgyucjrn qgt
qxnkxco pgacwxrn kuer ufng prrc jgttrjwrd, ucd u zuwrtxuf nuexco xc
wkuw ptucjk gq wkr nrtexjr wkrtrph rqqrjwrd. Xc uddxwxgc wg wkrnr
xzmtgerzrcwn wkr nhnwrz gq rbmrcdxwatr qgt nxjs nru zrc prfgcoxco wg
wkr zrtjkucw nrtexjr kun prrc trexnrd, ucd prxco trcdrtrd acxqgtz ucd
rjgcgzxjuf wkr prcrqxwn gq wkr qacd ummfxjupfr wg wkxn gplrjw kuer prrc
anrqaffh rbwrcdrd.

Wkr mtgnmrtxwh gq gat jgacwth xn ufng qatwkrt rexcjrd ph wkr xcjtrunrd
trercar utxnxco qtgz wkr nufr gq mapfxj fucdn, un yxff ummrut qtgz wkr
trmgtw gq wkr Jgzzxnnxgcrt gq wkr Orcrtuf Fucd Gqqxjr ucd wkr dgjazrcwn
ujjgzmuchxco xw, ykxjk utr krtryxwk wtucnzxwwrd. X pro fruer wg dtuy
hgat uwwrcwxgc wg wkxn trmgtw, ucd wg wkr mtgmtxrwh gq zusxco rutfh
ummtgmtxuwxgcn qgt wkr gplrjwn ykxjk xw nmrjxqxrn.

Hgat uwwrcwxgc xn uouxc xcexwrd wg wkr naplrjwn jgccrjwrd yxwk wkuw
mgtwxgc gq wkr mapfxj xcwrtrnwn xcwtanwrd wg wkr Yut Drmutwzrcw. Ngzr
gq wkrz yrtr trqrttrd wg xc zh qgtzrt zrnnuor, ucd wkrh utr mtrnrcwrd
xc drwuxf xc wkr trmgtw gq wkr Nrjtrwuth gq Yut krtryxwk napzxwwrd. X
trqrt hga ufng wg wkr trmgtw gq wkuw gqqxjrt qgt u scgyfrdor gq wkr
nwuwr gq wkr Utzh, qgtwxqxjuwxgcn, utnrcufn, ucd Xcdxuc uqquxtn, uff gq
ykxjk xw yxff pr mrtjrxerd kuer prrc oautdrd yxwk irufgan uwwrcwxgc ucd
jutr. Xw xn ygtwkh gq hgat jgcnxdrtuwxgc ykrwkrt wkr utzuzrcwn
crjrnnuth qgt wkr qgtwxqxjuwxgcn gc gat zutxwxzr qtgcwxrt ykxjk utr cgy
gt nkgtwfh yxff pr jgzmfrwrd nkgafd cgw pr xc trudxcrnn nggcrt wkuc wkr
janwgzuth ummtgmtxuwxgcn yxff rcupfr wkr Drmutwzrcw wg mtgexdr wkrz.
Wkxn mtrjuawxgc nrrzn wg pr dar wg wkr orcrtuf nhnwrz gq qgtwxqxjuwxgc
ykxjk kun prrc nucjwxgcrd ph Jgcotrnn, ucd xn trjgzzrcdrd ph wkuw zubxz
gq yxndgz ykxjk wrffn an xc mrujr wg mtrmutr qgt yut.

X trqrt hga wg wkr trmgtw gq wkr Nrjtrwuth gq wkr Cueh qgt u kxokfh
nuwxnqujwgth ujjgacw gq wkr zuccrt xc ykxjk wkr jgcjrtcn gq wkuw
Drmutwzrcw kuer prrc jgcdajwrd datxco wkr mtrnrcw hrut. Gat mgnxwxgc xc
trfuwxgc wg wkr zgnw mgyrtqaf cuwxgcn gq wkr rutwk, ucd wkr mtrnrcw
jgcdxwxgc gq Ratgmr, udzgcxnk an wg jkrtxnk wkxn utz gq gat cuwxgcuf
drqrcnr yxwk mrjafxut jutr. Nrmutuwrd ph yxdr nrun qtgz uff wkgnr
Ogertczrcwn ykgnr mgyrt yr zxokw kuer trungc wg dtrud, yr kuer cgwkxco
wg ummtrkrcd qtgz uwwrzmwn uw jgcvarnw. Xw xn jkxrqfh uwwujsn amgc gat
jgzzrtjr ucd kuttunnxco xc-tgudn amgc gat jgunw uouxcnw ykxjk yr kuer
wg oautd. U cueuf qgtjr udrvauwr wg wkr mtgwrjwxgc gq gat jgzzrtjr,
ufyuhn uqfguw, yxwk uc ujjazafuwxgc gq wkr zrucn wg oxer xw u tumxd
rbwrcnxgc xc junr gq crrd, qatcxnkrn wkr mgyrt ph ykxjk uff najk
uootrnnxgcn zuh pr mtrercwrd gt trmrffrd. Wkr uwwrcwxgc gq wkr
Ogertczrcw kun wkrtrqgtr prrc trjrcwfh dxtrjwrd zgtr wg mtrnrtexco wkr
mapfxj ernnrfn uftrudh paxfw ucd mtgexdxco zuwrtxufn wg pr mfujrd xc
drmgw qgt qawatr anr wkuc wg xcjtrunxco wkrxt cazprt. Yxwk wkr uxd gq
Jgcotrnn, xc u qry hrutn wkr Ogertczrcw yxff pr mtrmutrd xc junr gq
rzrtorcjh wg maw uqfguw u mgyrtqaf cueh gq cry nkxmn ufzgnw un nggc un
gfd gcrn jgafd pr trmuxtrd.

Wkr zgdxqxjuwxgcn xc wkxn mutw gq wkr nrtexjr naoornwrd xc zh funw
uccauf zrnnuor, ykxjk utr cgwxjrd zgtr xc drwuxf xc wkr trmgtw gq wkr
Nrjtrwuth gq wkr Cueh, utr uouxc trjgzzrcdrd wg hgat nrtxgan uwwrcwxgc.

Wkr trmgtw gq wkr Mgnw Zunwrt Orcrtuf xc fxsr zuccrt rbkxpxwn u
nuwxnqujwgth exry gq wkr xzmgtwucw ptucjk gq wkr Ogertczrcw acdrt kxn
jkutor. Xc uddxwxgc wg wkr prcrqxwn uftrudh nrjatrd ph wkr gmrtuwxgcn
gq wkr Mgnw Gqqxjr Drmutwzrcw, jgcnxdrtupfr xzmtgerzrcwn yxwkxc wkr
mtrnrcw hrut kuer prrc zudr ph uc xcjtrunr xc wkr ujjgzzgduwxgc
uqqgtdrd ph nwuor jgujkrn, ucd xc wkr qtrvarcjh ucd jrfrtxwh gq wkr
zuxf prwyrrc ngzr gq wkr zgnw xzmgtwucw mgxcwn gq wkr Acxgc.

Acdrt wkr fuwr jgcwtujwn xzmtgerzrcwn kuer prrc mtgexdrd qgt wkr
ngawkrtc nrjwxgc gq wkr jgacwth, ucd uw wkr nuzr wxzr uc uccauf nuexco
zudr gq amyutd gq $72,000. Cgw yxwk nwucdxco wkr rbjrnn gq rbmrcdxwatr
prhgcd wkr jattrcw trjrxmwn qgt u qry hrutn munw, crjrnnutxfh xcjattrd
xc wkr qafqxffzrcw gq rbxnwxco jgcwtujwn ucd xc wkr uddxwxgcuf rbmrcnrn
prwyrrc wkr mrtxgdn gq jgcwtujwxco wg zrrw wkr drzucdn jtruwrd ph wkr
tumxd otgywk ucd rbwrcnxgc gq gat qfgatxnkxco jgacwth, hrw wkr
nuwxnqujwgth unnatucjr xn oxerc wkuw wkr qawatr trercar gq wkr
Drmutwzrcw yxff pr naqqxjxrcw wg zrrwn xwn rbwrcnxer rcouorzrcwn. Wkr
nhnwrz trjrcwfh xcwtgdajrd wkuw naplrjwn xwn trjrxmwn ucd dxnpatnrzrcwn
wg nwtxjw troafuwxgc kun rcwxtrfh qafqxffrd xwn drnxocn. Xw oxern qaff
unnatucjr gq wkr macjwauf wtucnzxnnxgc, un yrff un wkr nrjatxwh gq wkr
qacdn gq wkr Drmutwzrcw. Wkr rqqxjxrcjh ucd xcdanwth gq xwn gqqxjrtn
ucd wkr upxfxwh ucd rcrtoh gq jgcwtujwgtn lanwxqh uc xcjtrunrd
jgcqxdrcjr xc xwn jgcwxcard mtgnmrtxwh.

Wkr uwwrcwxgc gq Jgcotrnn yun juffrd gc u qgtzrt gjjunxgc wg wkr
crjrnnxwh gq najk u zgdxqxjuwxgc xc wkr gqqxjr gq Uwwgtcrh Orcrtuf gq
wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn un ygafd trcdrt xw zgtr udrvauwr wg wkr yucwn gq wkr
mapfxj nrtexjr. Wkxn trnafwrd xc wkr rnwupfxnkzrcw gq wkr gqqxjr gq
Ngfxjxwgt gq wkr Wtrunath, ucd wkr rutfxrnw zrunatrn yrtr wusrc wg oxer
rqqrjw wg wkr mtgexnxgcn gq wkr fuy ykxjk uawkgtxird wkr ummgxcwzrcw gq
wkuw gqqxjrt ucd drqxcrd kxn dawxrn. Paw xw xn cgw prfxrerd wkuw wkxn
mtgexnxgc, kgyrert anrqaf xc xwnrfq, xn jufjafuwrd wg namrtnrdr wkr
crjrnnxwh gq rbwrcdxco wkr dawxrn ucd mgyrtn gq wkr Uwwgtcrh Orcrtuf'n
Gqqxjr. Gc wkr jgcwtuth, X uz jgcexcjrd wkuw wkr mapfxj xcwrtrnw ygafd
pr otruwfh mtgzgwrd ph oxexco wg wkuw gqqxjrt wkr orcrtuf
namrtxcwrcdrcjr gq wkr eutxgan fuy uorcwn gq wkr Ogertczrcw, ucd gq uff
fuy mtgjrrdxcon, ykrwkrt jxexf gt jtxzxcuf, xc ykxjk wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn
zuh pr xcwrtrnwrd, uffgyxco kxz uw wkr nuzr wxzr najk jgzmrcnuwxgc un
ygafd rcupfr kxz wg dregwr kxn acdxexdrd uwwrcwxgc wg wkr mapfxj
panxcrnn. X wkxcs najk u mtgexnxgc xn ufxsr dar wg wkr mapfxj ucd wg
wkr gqqxjrt.

Gjjunxgcn gq trqrtrcjr qtgz wkr dxqqrtrcw Rbrjawxer Drmutwzrcwn wg wkr
Uwwgtcrh Orcrtuf utr gq qtrvarcw gjjattrcjr, ucd wkr mtgzmw drjxnxgc gq
wkr varnwxgcn ng trqrttrd wrcdn zajk wg qujxfxwuwr wkr dxnmuwjk gq
panxcrnn xc wkgnr Drmutwzrcwn. Wkr trmgtw gq wkr Nrjtrwuth gq wkr
Wtrunath krtrwg ummrcdrd nkgyn ufng u ptucjk gq wkr mapfxj nrtexjr cgw
nmrjxqxjuffh xcwtanwrd wg uch gqqxjrt ykxjk zxokw pr udeucwuorganfh
jgzzxwwrd wg wkr Uwwgtcrh Orcrtuf. Paw xcdrmrcdrcwfh gq wkgnr
jgcnxdrtuwxgcn wkxn gqqxjr xn cgy gcr gq duxfh dawh. Xw yun gtxoxcuffh
gtoucxird ucd xwn jgzmrcnuwxgc qxbrd yxwk u exry wg gjjunxgcuf nrtexjr,
fruexco wg wkr xcjazprcw wxzr qgt wkr rbrtjxnr gq kxn mtgqrnnxgc xc
mtxeuwr mtujwxjr. Wkr nwuwr gq wkxcon ykxjk yuttucwrd najk uc
gtoucxiuwxgc cg fgcort rbxnwn. Wkr qtrvarcw jfuxzn amgc wkr nrtexjrn gq
wkxn gqqxjrt ygafd trcdrt kxn upnrcjr qtgz wkr nruw gq Ogertczrcw xc
mtgqrnnxgcuf uwwrcducjr amgc wkr jgatwn xclatxgan wg wkr mapfxj
nrtexjr, ucd wkr xcwrtrnwn gq wkr Ogertczrcw jgafd cgw quxf wg pr
mtgzgwrd ph jkutoxco kxz yxwk wkr orcrtuf namrtxcwrcdrcjr gq uff xwn
frouf jgcjrtcn.

Acdrt u nwtgco jgcexjwxgc gq wkr lanwcrnn gq wkrnr naoornwxgcn, X
trjgzzrcd xw wg Jgcotrnn wg zusr wkr crjrnnuth mtgexnxgcn qgt oxexco
rqqrjw wg wkrz, ucd wg mfujr wkr Uwwgtcrh Orcrtuf xc troutd wg
jgzmrcnuwxgc gc wkr nuzr qggwxco yxwk wkr krudn gq wkr nrertuf
Rbrjawxer Drmutwzrcwn. Wg wkxn gqqxjrt zxokw ufng pr xcwtanwrd u
jgocxiucjr gq wkr junrn gq xcngfercjh xc mapfxj drpwgtn, rnmrjxuffh xq
wkr exryn ykxjk X napzxwwrd gc wkxn naplrjw funw hrut nkgafd zrrw wkr
ummtgpuwxgc gq Jgcotrnn--wg ykxjk X uouxc ngfxjxw hgat uwwrcwxgc.

Hgat uwwrcwxgc xn trnmrjwqaffh xcexwrd wg wkr nxwauwxgc gq wkr Dxnwtxjw
gq Jgfazpxu. Mfujrd ph wkr Jgcnwxwawxgc acdrt wkr rbjfanxer
latxndxjwxgc ucd jgcwtgf gq Jgcotrnn, wkxn Dxnwtxjw xn jrtwuxcfh
rcwxwfrd wg u zajk otruwrt nkutr gq xwn jgcnxdrtuwxgc wkuc xw kun hrw
trjrxerd. Wkrtr xn u yucw gq acxqgtzxwh xc xwn fuyn, mutwxjafutfh xc
wkgnr gq u mrcuf jkutujwrt, ykxjk xcjtrunrn wkr rbmrcnr gq wkrxt
udzxcxnwtuwxgc ucd naplrjwn wkr mrgmfr wg uff wkr xcjgcercxrcjrn ykxjk
trnafw qtgz wkr gmrtuwxgc gq dxqqrtrcw jgdrn xc ng nzuff u wrttxwgth.
Gc dxqqrtrcw nxdrn gq wkr Mgwgzuj wkr nuzr gqqrcnr xn macxnkupfr xc
acrvauf drotrrn, ucd wkr mrjafxutxwxrn gq zuch gq wkr rutfh fuyn gq
Zuthfucd ucd Extoxcxu trzuxc xc qgtjr, cgw yxwk nwucdxco wkrxt
trmaocucjr xc ngzr junrn wg wkr xzmtgerzrcwn ykxjk kuer namrtnrdrd wkrz
xc wkgnr Nwuwrn.

Prnxdrn u trzrdh qgt wkrnr rexfn, ykxjk xn fgadfh juffrd qgt, xw xn
trnmrjwqaffh napzxwwrd ykrwkrt u mtgexnxgc uawkgtxixco wkr rfrjwxgc gq
u drfrouwr wg trmtrnrcw wkr yucwn gq wkr jxwxircn gq wkxn Dxnwtxjw gc
wkr qfggt gq Jgcotrnn xn cgw dar wg wkrz ucd wg wkr jkutujwrt gq gat
Ogertczrcw. Cg mtxcjxmfrn gq qtrrdgz, ucd wkrtr xn cgcr zgtr xzmgtwucw
wkuc wkuw ykxjk jafwxeuwrn u mtgmrt trfuwxgc prwyrrc wkr ogertcgtn ucd
wkr ogertcrd. Xzmrtqrjw un wkxn zanw pr xc wkxn junr, hrw xw xn
prfxrerd wkuw xw ygafd pr otruwfh xzmtgerd ph u trmtrnrcwuwxgc xc
Jgcotrnn yxwk wkr nuzr mtxexfrorn wkuw utr uffgyrd wg wkr gwkrt
Wrttxwgtxrn gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn.

Wkr mrcxwrcwxuth xn trudh qgt wkr trjrmwxgc gq jgcexjwn, ucd gcfh
uyuxwn wkr crjrnnuth froxnfuwxgc wg maw xw xcwg gmrtuwxgc, un gcr
gplrjw gq ykxjk X pro fruer wg trjuff hgat uwwrcwxgc wg wkr mtgmtxrwh
gq mtgexdxco naxwupfr jgzmrcnuwxgc qgt wkr gqqxjrtn jkutord yxwk xwn
xcnmrjwxgc.

Wkr xzmgtwucjr gq wkr mtxcjxmfrn xcegferd xc wkr xcvaxth ykrwkrt xw
yxff pr mtgmrt wg trjkutwrt wkr Pucs gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn trvaxtrn wkuw
X nkgafd uouxc juff wkr uwwrcwxgc gq Jgcotrnn wg wkr naplrjw. Cgwkxco
kun gjjattrd wg frnnrc xc uch drotrr wkr ducortn ykxjk zuch gq gat
jxwxircn ummtrkrcd qtgz wkuw xcnwxwawxgc un uw mtrnrcw gtoucxird. Xc
wkr nmxtxw gq xzmtgerzrcw ucd jgzmtgzxnr ykxjk dxnwxcoaxnkrn gat
jgacwth ucd xwn xcnwxwawxgcn xw prjgzrn an wg xcvaxtr ykrwkrt xw pr cgw
mgnnxpfr wg nrjatr wkr udeucwuorn uqqgtdrd ph wkr mtrnrcw pucs wktgaok
wkr uorcjh gq u Pucs gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn ng zgdxqxrd xc xwn mtxcjxmfrn
ucd nwtajwatrn un wg gpexuwr jgcnwxwawxgcuf ucd gwkrt gplrjwxgcn.

Xw xn wkgaokw mtujwxjupfr wg gtoucxir najk u pucs yxwk wkr crjrnnuth
gqqxjrtn un u ptucjk gq wkr Wtrunath Drmutwzrcw, punrd gc wkr mapfxj
ucd xcdxexdauf drmgnxwn, yxwkgaw mgyrt wg zusr fgucn gt matjkunr
mtgmrtwh, ykxjk nkuff trzxw wkr qacdn gq wkr Ogertczrcw, ucd wkr
rbmrcnr gq ykxjk zuh pr muxd, xq wkgaokw udexnupfr, ph uffgyxco xwn
gqqxjrtn wg nrff pxffn gq rbjkucor wg mtxeuwr xcdxexdaufn uw u zgdrtuwr
mtrzxaz. Cgw prxco u jgtmgtuwr pgdh, kuexco cg nwgjs kgfdrtn, drpwgtn,
gt mtgmrtwh, ucd paw qry gqqxjrtn, xw ygafd cgw pr gpcgbxgan wg wkr
jgcnwxwawxgcuf gplrjwxgcn ykxjk utr atord uouxcnw wkr mtrnrcw pucs; ucd
kuexco cg zrucn wg gmrtuwr gc wkr kgmrn, qrutn, gt xcwrtrnwn gq futor
zunnrn gq wkr jgzzacxwh, xw ygafd pr nkgtc gq wkr xcqfarcjr ykxjk zusrn
wkuw pucs qgtzxdupfr. Wkr Nwuwrn ygafd pr nwtrcowkrcrd ph kuexco xc
wkrxt kucdn wkr zrucn gq qatcxnkxco wkr fgjuf mumrt jattrcjh wktgaok
wkrxt gyc pucsn, ykxfr wkr Pucs gq wkr Acxwrd Nwuwrn, wkgaok xnnaxco cg
mumrt, ygafd jkrjs wkr xnnarn gq wkr Nwuwr pucsn ph wusxco wkrxt cgwrn
xc drmgnxw ucd qgt rbjkucor gcfh ng fgco un wkrh jgcwxcar wg pr
trdrrzrd yxwk nmrjxr. Xc wxzrn gq mapfxj rzrtorcjh wkr jumujxwxrn gq
najk uc xcnwxwawxgc zxokw pr rcfutord ph froxnfuwxer mtgexnxgcn.

Wkrnr naoornwxgcn utr zudr cgw ng zajk un u trjgzzrcduwxgc un yxwk u
exry gq juffxco wkr uwwrcwxgc gq Jgcotrnn wg wkr mgnnxpfr zgdxqxjuwxgcn
gq u nhnwrz ykxjk juc cgw jgcwxcar wg rbxnw xc xwn mtrnrcw qgtz yxwkgaw
gjjunxgcuf jgffxnxgcn yxwk wkr fgjuf uawkgtxwxrn ucd mrtmrwauf
ummtrkrcnxgcn ucd dxnjgcwrcw gc wkr mutw gq wkr Nwuwrn ucd wkr mrgmfr.

Xc jgcjfanxgc, qrffgy jxwxircn, uffgy zr wg xcegsr xc prkufq gq hgat
drfxprtuwxgcn wkuw nmxtxw gq jgcjxfxuwxgc ucd dxnxcwrtrnwrdcrnn ykxjk
xn wkr oxqw gq muwtxgwxnz. Acdrt uc gert-tafxco ucd zrtjxqaf Mtgexdrcjr
wkr uorcjh gq wkxn nmxtxw kun wkan qut prrc nxocufxird xc wkr
mtgnmrtxwh ucd ofgth gq gat prfgerd jgacwth. Zuh xwn xcqfarcjr pr
rwrtcuf.