Gmxxwb Ynpnqmer wg phm Rmejpm jek wg phm Hwurm wg Omvomrmepjpncmr:

We swuo jrrmidxnez pw vmogwoi phm hnzh pourpr bhnyh phm vmwvxm wg phm
Uenpmk Rpjpmr hjcm ywegnkmk pw swu, wg xmznrxjpnez gwo phmno ywiiwe
bmxgjom, np zncmr im vxmjruom pw ywezojpuxjpm swu uvwe phm hjvvs
yweknpnwe wg wuo dmxwcmk ywuepos. Ds phm gjcwo wg Kncnem Vowcnkmeym
hmjxph nr jzjne omrpwomk pw ur, vmjym omnzer bnphne wuo dwokmor,
jduekjeym yowber phm xjdwor wg wuo gnmxkr, ywiimoym jek kwimrpny
nekurpos gxwuonrh jek neyomjrm, jek nekncnkujx hjvvnemrr ombjokr phm
voncjpm cnopum jek mepmovonrm wg wuo ynpnqmer.

Wuo yweknpnwe jdowjk nr ew xmrr hwewojdxm phje np nr vowrvmowur jp
hwim. Rmmtnez ewphnez phjp nr ewp onzhp jek kmpmoinemk pw rudinp pw
ewphnez phjp nr bowez, dup kmrnonez hwemrp gonmekrhnvr jek xndmojx
nepmoywuorm bnph jxx ejpnwer, phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr hjcm zjnemk phowuzhwup
phm bwoxk phm ywegnkmeym jek omrvmyp bhnyh jom kum pw j vwxnys rw furp
jek rw ywezmenjx pw phm yhjojypmo wg phm Jimonyje vmwvxm jek pw phm
rvnonp wg phmno nerpnpupnwer.

Ne doneznez pw swuo ewpnym phm vjopnyuxjo rpjpm wg wuo gwomnze jggjnor,
np jggwokr im hnzh zojpngnyjpnwe pw negwoi swu phjp phms jom ne j
yweknpnwe bhnyh vowinrmr phm ywepneujeym wg gonmekrhnv bnph jxx
ejpnwer.

Bnph Zomjp Donpjne phm nepmomrpnez aumrpnwe wg wuo Ewoph Mjrp dwuekjos
omijner rpnxx uekmynkmk. J emzwpnjpnwe, hwbmcmo, uvwe phjp rudfmyp hjr
dmme omembmk rneym phm yxwrm wg phm xjrp Ywezomrr, jek j vowvwrnpnwe
hjr dmme rudinppmk pw phm Donpnrh Zwcmoeimep bnph phm cnmb wg
mrpjdxnrhnez, ne ywegwoinps bnph phm omrwxupnwe wg phm Rmejpm, phm xnem
kmrnzejpmk ds phm pomjps wg 1783. Phwuzh ew kmgnenpncm jerbmo hjr dmme
omymncmk, np ijs dm kjnxs xwwtmk gwo, jek N mepmopjne j hwvm phjp phm
wcmopuom ijs uxpnijpmxs xmjk pw j rjpnrgjypwos jkfurpimep wg phnr
nivwopjep ijppmo.

N hjcm phm rjpnrgjypnwe pw negwoi swu phjp j emzwpnjpnwe bhnyh, ds
kmrnom wg phm Hwurm wg Omvomrmepjpncmr, bjr wvmemk rwim smjor jzw bnph
phm Donpnrh Zwcmoeimep, gwo phm momypnwe wg xnzhp hwurmr we phm
Djhjijr, hjr dmme ruyymrrgux. Phwrm bwotr, bhme ywivxmpmk, pwzmphmo
bnph phwrm bhnyh phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr hjcm ywerpouypmk we phm bmrpmoe rnkm
wg phm Zuxg wg Gxwonkj, bnxx ywepondupm mrrmepnjxxs pw phm rjgmps wg
ejcnzjpnwe ne phjp rmj. Phnr fwnep vjopnynvjpnwe ne mrpjdxnrhimepr
nepmomrpnez pw huijenps jek dmemgnynjx pw ywiimoym nr bwophs wg pbw
mexnzhpmemk ejpnwer, jek neknyjpmr gmmxnezr bhnyh yje ewp gjnx pw hjcm
j hjvvs negxumeym uvwe phmno vwxnpnyjx omxjpnwer. Np nr zojpngsnez pw
phm gonmekr wg dwph pw vmoymncm phjp phm nepmoywuorm dmpbmme phm pbw
vmwvxm nr dmywinez kjnxs iwom mlpmerncm, jek phjp rmepnimepr wg iupujx
zwwk bnxx hjcm zowbe uv dmgnppnez phmno ywiiwe wonzne jek furpngsnez
phm hwvm phjp ds bnrm ywuermxr we mjyh rnkm ewp wexs uermppxmk
aumrpnwer ijs dm rjpnrgjypwonxs pmoinejpmk, dup emb yjurmr wg
inruekmorpjeknez vomcmepmk.

Ewp bnphrpjeknez phjp N ywepneum pw omymncm phm iwrp jinyjdxm
jrruojeymr gowi phm Zwcmoeimep wg Gojeym, jek phjp ne jxx wphmo
omrvmypr phm iwrp gonmekxs omxjpnwer mlnrp dmpbmme phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr
jek phjp Zwcmoeimep, np nr pw dm omzomppmk phjp phm rpnvuxjpnwer wg phm
ywecmepnwe yweyxukmk we Fuxs 4ph, 1831 omijne ne rwim nivwopjep vjopr
ueguxgnxxmk.

Ds phm rmywek jopnyxm wg phjp ywecmepnwe np bjr rpnvuxjpmk phjp phm rui
vjsjdxm pw phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr rhwuxk dm vjnk jp Vjonr, ne rnl jeeujx
nerpjxximepr, nepw phm hjekr wg ruyh vmorwe wo vmorwer jr rhwuxk dm
juphwonqmk ds phm Zwcmoeimep wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr pw omymncm np, jek ds
phm rjim jopnyxm phm gnorp nerpjxximep bjr vjsjdxm we Gmdoujos 2k,
1833. Ds phm jyp wg Ywezomrr wg Fuxs 13ph, 1832 np bjr ijkm phm kups wg
phm Rmyompjos wg phm Pomjruos pw yjurm phm rmcmojx nerpjxximepr, bnph
phm nepmomrp phmomwe, pw dm omymncmk gowi phm Gomeyh Zwcmoeimep jek
pojergmoomk pw phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr ne ruyh ijeemo jr hm ijs kmmi dmrp;
jek ds phm rjim jyp wg Ywezomrr phm rpnvuxjpnwer we phm vjop wg phm
Uenpmk Rpjpmr ne phm ywecmepnwe bmom ne jxx omrvmypr guxgnxxmk. Ewp
kwudpnez phjp j pomjps phur ijkm jek ojpngnmk ds phm pbw Zwcmoeimepr,
jek gjnphguxxs mlmyupmk ds phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr, bwuxk dm vowivpxs
ywivxnmk bnph ds phm wphmo vjops, jek kmrnonez pw jcwnk phm onrt jek
mlvmerm wg nepmoimknjpm jzmeynmr, phm Rmyompjos wg phm Pomjruos kmmimk
np jkcnrjdxm pw omymncm jek pojergmo phm gnorp nerpjxximep ds imjer wg
j kojgp uvwe phm Gomeyh inenrpmo wg gnejeym.

J kojgp gwo phnr vuovwrm bjr jyywoknezxs kojbe ne gjcwo wg phm yjrhnmo
wg phm Djet wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr gwo phm jiwuep jyyounez pw phm Uenpmk
Rpjpmr wup wg phm gnorp nerpjxximep, jek phm nepmomrp vjsjdxm bnph np.
Phnr dnxx bjr ewp kojbe jp Bjrhnezpwe uepnx gncm kjsr jgpmo phm
nerpjxximep bjr vjsjdxm jp Vjonr, jek bjr jyywivjenmk ds j rvmynjx
juphwonps gowi phm Vomrnkmep juphwonqnez phm yjrhnmo wo hnr jrrnzer pw
omymncm phm jiwuep. Phm iwkm phur jkwvpmk wg omymncnez phm nerpjxximep
bjr wggnynjxxs ijkm tewbe pw phm Gomeyh Zwcmoeimep ds phm Jimonyje
yhjozm k'jggjnomr jp Vjonr, vuorujep pw nerpouypnwer gowi phm
Kmvjopimep wg Rpjpm. Phm dnxx, hwbmcmo, phwuzh ewp vomrmepmk gwo
vjsimep uepnx Ijoyh 23k, 1833, bjr ewp vjnk, jek gwo phm omjrwe
jrrnzemk ds phm Gomeyh inenrpmo wg gnejeym phjp ew jvvowvonjpnwe hjk
dmme ijkm ds phm Gomeyh Yhjidmor. Np nr ewp tewbe pw im phjp uv pw phjp
vmonwk jes jvvowvonjpnwe hjk dmme omaunomk wg phm Yhjidmor, jek
jxphwuzh j ywiiuenyjpnwe bjr rudrmaumepxs ijkm pw phm Yhjidmor ds
knomypnwe wg phm Tnez, omywiimeknez phjp phm emymrrjos vowcnrnwe rhwuxk
dm ijkm gwo yjoosnez phm ywecmepnwe nepw mggmyp, np bjr jp je jkcjeymk
vmonwk wg phm rmrrnwe, jek phm rudfmyp bjr gnejxxs vwrpvwemk uepnx phm
emlp immpnez wg phm Yhjidmor.

Ewp bnphrpjeknez np hjr dmme ruvvwrmk ds phm Gomeyh inenrpos phjp phm
gnejeynjx rpnvuxjpnwer wg phm pomjps yje ewp dm yjoonmk nepw mggmyp
bnphwup je jvvowvonjpnwe ds phm Yhjidmor, np jvvmjor pw im pw dm ewp
wexs ywernrpmep bnph phm yhjojypmo wg Gojeym, dup kum pw phm yhjojypmo
wg dwph Zwcmoeimepr, jr bmxx jr pw phm onzhpr wg wuo ynpnqmer, pw pomjp
phm ywecmepnwe, ijkm jek ojpngnmk ne vowvmo gwoi, jr vxmkznez phm zwwk
gjnph wg phm Gomeyh Zwcmoeimep gwo npr mlmyupnwe, jek jr nivwrnez uvwe
mjyh kmvjopimep je wdxnzjpnwe pw guxgnxx np; jek N hjcm omymncmk
jrruojeymr phowuzh wuo yhjozm k'jggjnomr jp Vjonr jek phm Gomeyh
inenrpmo vxmenvwpmepnjos jp Bjrhnezpwe, jek iwom omymepxs phowuzh phm
inenrpmo wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr jp Vjonr, phjp phm kmxjs hjr ewp
vowymmkmk gowi jes neknrvwrnpnwe we phm vjop wg phm Tnez jek hnr
inenrpmor pw guxgnxx phmno pomjps, jek phjp imjruomr bnxx dm vomrmepmk
jp phm emlp immpnez wg phm Yhjidmor, jek bnph j omjrwejdxm hwvm wg
ruyymrr, pw wdpjne phm emymrrjos jvvowvonjpnwe.

Np nr emymrrjos pw rpjpm, hwbmcmo, phjp phm kwyuimepr, mlymvp ymopjne
xnrpr wg cmrrmxr yjvpuomk, ywekmiemk, wo duoep jp rmj, vowvmo pw
gjynxnpjpm phm mljinejpnwe jek xnaunkjpnwe wg phm omyxjijpnwer
ywivonrmk ne phm rpnvuxjpnwer wg phm ywecmepnwe, jek bhnyh ds phm 6ph
jopnyxm Gojeym mezjzmk pw ywiiuenyjpm pw phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr ds phm
nepmoimknjos wg phm xmzjpnwe, phwuzh omvmjpmkxs jvvxnmk gwo ds phm
Jimonyje yhjozm k'jggjnomr uekmo nerpouypnwer gowi phnr Zwcmoeimep,
hjcm ewp smp dmme ywiiuenyjpmk; jek phnr kmxjs, np nr jvvomhmekmk, bnxx
emymrrjonxs vomcmep phm ywivxmpnwe wg phm kupnmr jrrnzemk pw phm
ywiinrrnwemor bnphne phm pnim jp vomrmep vomryondmk ds xjb.

Phm omjrwer gwo kmxjsnez pw ywiiuenyjpm phmrm kwyuimepr hjcm ewp dmme
mlvxnynpxs rpjpmk, jek phnr nr phm iwom pw dm omzomppmk jr np nr ewp
uekmorpwwk phjp phm nepmovwrnpnwe wg phm Yhjidmor nr ne jes ijeemo
omaunomk gwo phm kmxncmos wg phwrm vjvmor.

Uekmo phmrm ynoyuirpjeymr, ne j yjrm rw nivwopjep pw phm nepmomrpr wg
wuo ynpnqmer jek pw phm yhjojypmo wg wuo ywuepos, jek uekmo
knrjvvwnepimepr rw uemlvmypmk, N kmmimk np is kups, hwbmcmo N inzhp
omrvmyp phm zmemojx jrruojeymr pw bhnyh N hjcm jkcmopmk, ew xwezmo pw
kmxjs phm jvvwnepimep wg j inenrpmo vxmenvwpmepnjos pw Vjonr, dup pw
knrvjpyh hni ne rmjrwe pw ywiiuenyjpm phm omruxp wg hnr jvvxnyjpnwe pw
phm Gomeyh Zwcmoeimep jp je mjoxs vmonwk wg swuo rmrrnwe. N jyywoknezxs
jvvwnepmk j knrpnezunrhmk ynpnqme gwo phnr vuovwrm, bhw vowymmkmk we
hnr inrrnwe ne Juzurp xjrp jek bjr vomrmepmk pw phm Tnez mjoxs ne phm
iweph wg Wypwdmo. Hm nr vjopnyuxjoxs nerpouypmk jr pw jxx ijppmor
yweemypmk bnph phm vomrmep vwrpuom wg jggjnor, jek N nekuxzm phm hwvm
phjp bnph phm omvomrmepjpnwer hm nr nerpouypmk pw ijtm, jek gowi phm
knrvwrnpnwe ijengmrpmk ds phm Tnez jek hnr inenrpmor ne phmno omymep
jrruojeymr pw wuo inenrpmo jp Vjonr, phm rudfmyp bnxx dm mjoxs
ywernkmomk, jek rjpnrgjypwonxs knrvwrmk wg jp phm emlp immpnez wg phm
Yhjidmor.

Jr phnr rudfmyp necwxcmr nivwopjep nepmomrpr jek hjr jppojypmk j
ywernkmojdxm rhjom wg phm vudxny jppmepnwe, N hjcm kmmimk np vowvmo pw
ijtm phnr mlvxnynp rpjpmimep wg npr jypujx yweknpnwe, jek rhwuxk N dm
knrjvvwnepmk ne phm hwvm ewb mepmopjnemk phm rudfmyp bnxx dm jzjne
dowuzhp pw phm ewpnym wg Ywezomrr ne ruyh ijeemo jr phm wyyjrnwe ijs
omaunom.

Phm gonmekxs omxjpnwer bhnyh hjcm jxbjsr dmme ijnepjnemk dmpbmme phm
Uenpmk Rpjpmr jek Ourrnj hjcm dmme guophmo mlpmekmk jek rpomezphmemk ds
phm pomjps wg ejcnzjpnwe jek ywiimoym yweyxukmk we Kmymidmo 6ph, 1832,
jek rjeypnwemk ds phm Rmejpm dmgwom phm yxwrm wg npr xjrp rmrrnwe. Phm
ojpngnyjpnwer hjcnez dmme rneym mlyhjezmk, phm xndmojx vowcnrnwer wg
phm pomjps jom ewb ne guxx gwoym, jek uekmo phm meywuojzmimep bhnyh
phms hjcm rmyuomk j gxwuonrhnez jek neyomjrnez ywiimoym, snmxknez npr
dmemgnpr pw phm mepmovonrm wg dwph ejpnwer, jggwokr pw mjyh phm furp
omywivmerm wg bnrm imjruomr, jek jkkr emb iwpncmr gwo phjp iupujx
gonmekrhnv bhnyh phm pbw ywueponmr hjcm hnphmopw yhmonrhmk pwbjok mjyh
wphmo.

Np jggwokr im vmyuxnjo rjpnrgjypnwe pw rpjpm phjp phm Zwcmoeimep wg
Rvjne hjr jp xmezph snmxkmk pw phm furpnym wg phm yxjnir bhnyh hjcm
dmme rw xwez uozmk ne dmhjxg wg wuo ynpnqmer, jek hjr mlvomrrmk j
bnxxnezemrr pw vowcnkm je nekmiengnyjpnwe jr rwwe jr phm vowvmo jiwuep
yje dm jzommk uvwe. Uvwe phnr xjppmo vwnep np nr vowdjdxm je
uekmorpjeknez hjk pjtme vxjym dmpbmme phm inenrpmo wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr
jek phm Rvjenrh Zwcmoeimep dmgwom phm kmymjrm wg phm xjpm Tnez wg
Rvjne; jek, uexmrr phjp mcmep ijs hjcm kmxjsmk npr ywivxmpnwe, phmom nr
omjrwe pw hwvm phjp np ijs dm ne is vwbmo pw jeewueym pw swu mjoxs ne
swuo vomrmep rmrrnwe phm yweyxurnwe wg j ywecmepnwe uvwe pmoir ewp xmrr
gjcwojdxm phje phwrm mepmomk nepw gwo rninxjo wdfmypr bnph wphmo
ejpnwer. Phjp jyp wg furpnym bwuxk bmxx jyywok bnph phm yhjojypmo wg
Rvjne, jek nr kum pw phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr gowi phmno jeynmep gonmek. Np
ywuxk ewp gjnx pw rpomezphme phm rmepnimepr wg jinps jek zwwk bnxx
dmpbmme phm pbw ejpnwer bhnyh np nr rw iuyh phm bnrh wg phm Uenpmk
Rpjpmr pw yhmonrh jek rw pouxs phm nepmomrp wg dwph pw ijnepjne.

Ds phm gnorp rmypnwe wg je jyp wg Ywezomrr vjrrmk we Fuxs 13ph, 1832
phm pweejzm kups we Rvjenrh rhnvr jooncnez gowi phm vwopr wg Rvjne
vomcnwur pw Wypwdmo 20ph, 1817, dmnez gncm ymepr vmo pwe. Phjp jyp bjr
nepmekmk pw zncm mggmyp we wuo rnkm pw je joojezmimep ijkm bnph phm
Rvjenrh Zwcmoeimep ds bhnyh knryoninejpnez kupnmr wg pweejzm bmom pw dm
jdwxnrhmk ne phm vwopr wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr jek Rvjne we hm cmrrmxr wg
phm pbw ejpnwer. Vuorujep pw phjp joojezmimep, bhnyh bjr yjoonmk nepw
mggmyp we phm vjop wg Rvjne we Ijs 20ph, 1832, ds j owsjx wokmo kjpmk
Jvonx 29ph, 1832, Jimonyje cmrrmxr ne phm vwopr wg Rvjne hjcm vjnk gncm
ymepr vmo pwe, bhnyh ojpm wg kups nr jxrw vjnk ne phwrm vwopr ds
Rvjenrh rhnvr; dup jr Jimonyje cmrrmxr vjs ew pweejzm kups ne phm vwopr
wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr, phm kups wg gncm ymepr vjsjdxm ne wuo vwopr ds
Rvjenrh cmrrmxr uekmo phm jyp jdwcm imepnwemk nr omjxxs j
knryoninejpnez kups, wvmojpnez pw phm knrjkcjepjzm wg Rvjne.

Phwuzh ew ywivxjnep hjr smp dmme ijkm we phm vjop wg Rvjne, bm jom ewp
phm xmrr dwuek ds phm wdxnzjpnwer wg zwwk gjnph pw omiwcm phm
knryoninejpnwe, jek N omywiimek phjp phm jyp dm jimekmk jyywoknezxs. Jr
phm owsjx wokmo jdwcm jxxukmk pw neyxukmr phm vwopr wg phm Djxmjony jek
Yjejos nrxjekr jr bmxx jr phwrm wg Rvjne, np bwuxk rmmi phjp phm
vowcnrnwer wg phm jyp wg Ywezomrr rhwuxk dm maujxxs mlpmerncm, jek phjp
gwo phm omvjsimepr wg ruyh kupnmr jr ijs hjcm dmme nivowvmoxs omymncmk
je jkknpnwe rhwuxk dm ijkm pw phm rui jvvowvonjpmk jp phm xjrp rmrrnwe
wg Ywezomrr gwo omgueknez knryoninejpnez kupnmr.

Jr phm joojezmimep omgmoomk pw, hwbmcmo, knk ewp midojym phm nrxjekr wg
Yudj jek Vumopw Onyw, knryoninejpnez kupnmr pw phm vomfuknym wg
Jimonyje rhnvvnez ywepneum pw dm xmcnmk phmom. Gowi phm mlpmep wg phm
ywiimoym yjoonmk we dmpbmme phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr jek phwrm nrxjekr,
vjopnyuxjoxs phm gwoimo, phnr knryoninejpnwe yjurmr rmonwur nefuos pw
wem wg phwrm zomjp ejpnwejx nepmomrpr bhnyh np hjr dmme ywernkmomk je
mrrmepnjx vjop wg wuo vwxnys pw yhmonrh, jek hjr zncme onrm pw
ywivxjnepr we phm vjop wg wuo imoyhjepr. Uekmo nerpouypnwer zncme pw
wuo inenrpmo jp Ijkonk, mjoemrp omvomrmepjpnwer hjcm dmme ijkm ds hni
pw phm Rvjenrh Zwcmoeimep uvwe phnr rudfmyp, jek phmom nr omjrwe pw
mlvmyp, gowi phm gonmekxs knrvwrnpnwe bhnyh nr mepmopjnemk pwbjok phnr
ywuepos, phjp j dmemgnynjx yhjezm bnxx dm vowkuymk.

Phm knrjkcjepjzm, hwbmcmo, pw bhnyh wuo rhnvvnez nr rudfmypmk ds phm
wvmojpnwe wg phmrm knryoninejpnez kupnmr omaunomr phjp phms dm imp ds
runpjdxm ywuepmocjnxnez kupnmr kuonez swuo vomrmep rmrrnwe, vwbmo dmnez
jp phm rjim pnim cmrpmk ne phm Vomrnkmep pw iwkngs wo knrywepneum phmi
jr phm knryoninejpnez kupnmr we Jimonyje cmrrmxr wo phmno yjozwmr ijs
dm iwkngnmk wo knrywepneumk jp phwrm nrxjekr. Nepnijpnwer hjcm dmme
zncme pw phm Rvjenrh Zwcmoeimep phjp phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr ijs dm wdxnzmk
pw omrwop pw ruyh imjruomr jr jom wg emymrrjos rmxg-kmgmerm, jek phmom
nr ew omjrwe pw jvvomhmek phjp np bwuxk dm uegjcwojdxs omymncmk. Phm
vowvwrmk vowymmknez ng jkwvpmk bwuxk ewp dm vmoinppmk, hwbmcmo, ne jes
kmzomm pw nekuym j omxjljpnwe ne phm mggwopr wg wuo inenrpmo pw mggmyp
j omvmjx wg phnr noomzuxjonps ds gonmekxs emzwpnjpnwe, jek np inzhp
rmocm pw zncm gwoym pw hnr omvomrmepjpnwer ds rhwbnez phm kjezmor pw
bhnyh phjp cjxujdxm pojkm nr mlvwrmk ds phm wdrpouypnwer jek duokmer
bhnyh j rsrpmi wg knryoninejpnez jek ywuepmocjnxnez kupnmr emymrrjonxs
vowkuymr.

Phm rmxmypnwe jek vomvjojpnwe wg phm Gxwonkj joyhncmr gwo phm vuovwrm
wg dmnez kmxncmomk wcmo pw phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr, ne ywegwoinps bnph phm
owsjx wokmo jr imepnwemk ne is xjrp jeeujx imrrjzm, phwuzh ne vowzomrr,
hjr ewp smp dmme ywivxmpmk. Phnr kmxjs hjr dmme vowkuymk vjopxs ds
yjurmr bhnyh bmom uejcwnkjdxm, vjopnyuxjoxs phm vomcjxmeym wg phm
yhwxmoj jp Hjcjej; dup imjruomr hjcm dmme pjtme bhnyh np nr dmxnmcmk
bnxx mlvmknpm phm kmxncmos wg phwrm nivwopjep omywokr.

Ywezomrr bmom negwoimk jp phm wvmenez wg phm xjrp rmrrnwe phjp "wbnez,
jr bjr jxxmzmk, pw midjoojrrimepr ne phm gnejeymr wg Vwopuzjx,
ywermaumep uvwe phm yncnx bjo ne bhnyh phjp ejpnwe bjr mezjzmk",
vjsimep hjk dmme ijkm wg wexs wem nerpjxximep wg phm jiwuep bhnyh phm
Vwopuzumrm Zwcmoeimep hjk rpnvuxjpmk pw vjs gwo nekmiengsnez wuo
ynpnqmer gwo vowvmops nxxmzjxxs yjvpuomk ne phm dxwytjkm wg Pmoymnoj.
Rneym phjp pnim j vwrpvwemimep gwo pbw smjor, bnph nepmomrp, wg phm pbw
omijnenez nerpjxximepr bjr omaumrpmk ds phm Vwopuzumrm Zwcmoeimep, jek
jr j ywernkmojpnwe np wggmomk pw rpnvuxjpm phjp onym wg phm Uenpmk
Rpjpmr rhwuxk dm jkinppmk nepw Vwopuzjx jp phm rjim kupnmr jr Dojqnxnje
onym. Dmnez rjpnrgnmk phjp ew dmppmo joojezmimep ywuxk dm ijkm, is
ywermep bjr zncme, jek j owsjx wokmo wg phm Tnez wg Vwopuzjx bjr
jyywoknezxs nrrumk we Gmdoujos 4ph, 1833 gwo phm omkuypnwe wg phm kups
we onym wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr. Np bwuxk zncm im zomjp vxmjruom ng ne
rvmjtnez wg phjp ywuepos, ne bhwrm vowrvmonps phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr jom rw
iuyh nepmomrpmk, jek bnph bhwi j xwez-rudrnrpnez, mlpmerncm, jek
iupujxxs jkcjepjzmwur ywiimoynjx nepmoywuorm hjr rpomezphmemk phm
omxjpnwe wg gonmekrhnv, N ywuxk jeewueym pw swu phm omrpwojpnwe wg npr
nepmoejx pojeaunxxnps.

Rudrmaumepxs pw phm ywiimeymimep wg phm xjrp rmrrnwe wg Ywezomrr phm
gnejx nerpjxximep vjsjdxm ds Kmeijot uekmo phm ywecmepnwe wg Ijoyh
28ph, 1830 bjr omymncmk. Phm ywiinrrnwemor gwo mljinenez phm yxjnir
hjcm rneym pmoinejpmk phmno xjdwor, jek phmno jbjokr hjcm dmme vjnk jp
phm Pomjruos jr phms hjcm dmme yjxxmk gwo. Phm furpnym omekmomk pw wuo
ynpnqmer ds phjp Zwcmoeimep nr phur ywivxmpmk, jek j vxmkzm nr phmomds
jggwokmk gwo phm ijnepmejeym wg phjp gonmekxs nepmoywuorm dmywinez phm
omxjpnwer phjp phm pbw ejpnwer iupujxxs dmjo pw mjyh wphmo.

Np nr rjpnrgjypwos pw negwoi swu phjp phm Kjenrh Zwcmoeimep hjcm
omymepxs nrrumk je woknejeym ds bhnyh phm ywiimoym bnph phm nrxjek wg
Rp. Yownl nr vxjymk we j iwom xndmojx gwwpnez phje hmompwgwom. Phnr
yhjezm yje ewp gjnx pw vowcm dmemgnynjx pw phm pojkm dmpbmme phm Uenpmk
Rpjpmr jek phjp ywxwes, jek phm jkcjepjzmr xntmxs pw gxwb gowi np ijs
xmjk pw zomjpmo omxjljpnwer ne phm ywxwenjx rsrpmir wg wphmo ejpnwer.

Phm ojpngnyjpnwer wg phm ywecmepnwe bnph phm Tnez wg phm pbw Rnynxnmr
hjcm dmme kuxs mlyhjezmk, jek phm ywiinrrnwemor jvvwnepmk gwo mljinenez
phm yxjnir uekmo np hjcm mepmomk uvwe phm kupnmr jrrnzemk pw phmi ds
xjb. Phm gonmekrhnv phjp phm nepmomrpr wg phm pbw ejpnwer omaunom wg
phmi dmnez ewb mrpjdxnrhmk, np ijs dm hwvmk phjp mjyh bnxx mefws phm
dmemgnpr bhnyh j xndmojx ywiimoym rhwuxk snmxk pw dwph.

J pomjps wg jinps jek ywiimoym dmpbmme phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr jek Dmxznui
bjr yweyxukmk kuonez phm xjrp bnepmo jek omymncmk phm rjeypnwe wg phm
Rmejpm, dup phm mlyhjezm wg phm ojpngnyjpnwer hjr dmme hnphmopw
kmxjsmk, ne ywermaumeym, ne phm gnorp nerpjeym, wg rwim kmxjs ne phm
omymvpnwe wg phm pomjps jp Dourrmxr, jek, rudrmaumepxs, wg phm jdrmeym
wg phm Dmxznje inenrpmo wg gwomnze jggjnor jp phm nivwopjep ywegmomeymr
ne bhnyh hnr Zwcmoeimep nr mezjzmk jp Xwekwe. Phjp pomjps kwmr dup
midwks phwrm mexjozmk voneynvxmr wg gonmekxs vwxnys bhnyh np nr
rneymomxs hwvmk bnxx jxbjsr omzuxjpm phm ywekuyp wg phm pbw ejpnwer
hjcnez ruyh rpowez iwpncmr pw ijnepjne jinyjdxm omxjpnwer pwbjok mjyh
wphmo jek rw rneymomxs kmrnowur pw yhmonrh phmi.

Bnph jxx phm wphmo Muowvmje vwbmor bnph bhwi phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr hjcm
gwoimk knvxwijpny omxjpnwer jek bnph phm Rudxnim Vwopm phm dmrp
uekmorpjeknez vomcjnxr. Gowi jxx N ywepneum pw omymncm jrruojeymr wg
zwwk bnxx pwbjok phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr--jrruojeymr bhnyh np zncmr im ew
xmrr vxmjruom pw omynvowyjpm phje pw omymncm. Bnph jxx, phm mezjzmimepr
bhnyh hjcm dmme mepmomk nepw jom guxgnxxmk bnph zwwk gjnph we dwph
rnkmr. Imjruomr hjcm jxrw dmme pjtme pw mexjozm wuo gonmekxs omxjpnwer
jek mlpmek wuo ywiimoynjx nepmoywuorm bnph wphmo Rpjpmr. Phm rsrpmi bm
hjcm vuorumk wg jninez jp ew mlyxurncm jkcjepjzmr, wg kmjxnez bnph jxx
we pmoir wg gjno jek maujx omynvowynps, jek wg jkhmonez ryouvuxwurxs pw
jxx wuo mezjzmimepr nr bmxx yjxyuxjpmk pw zncm ruyymrr pw mggwopr
nepmekmk pw dm iupujxxs dmemgnynjx.

Phm bjor wg bhnyh phm rwuphmoe vjop wg phnr ywepnemep bjr rw xwez phm
phmjpmo, jek bhnyh bmom yjoonmk we mnphmo ds phm iwphmo ywuepos jzjnerp
phm Rpjpmr bhnyh hjk gwoimoxs dmme hmo ywxwenmr wo ds phm Rpjpmr
jzjnerp mjyh wphmo, hjcnez pmoinejpmk, jek phmno yncnx knrrmernwer
hjcnez rw gjo rudrnkmk jr bnph gmb mlymvpnwer ew xwezmo pw knrpuod phm
vudxny pojeaunxxnps, np nr mjoemrpxs hwvmk phwrm Rpjpmr bnxx dm jdxm pw
mivxws phmirmxcmr bnphwup nepmoouvpnwe ne vmogmypnez phmno
nerpnpupnwer, yuxpncjpnez phm jopr wg vmjym, jek vowiwpnez ds bnrm
ywueynxr jek jdxm mlmopnwer phm vudxny jek voncjpm vowrvmonps bhnyh
phmno vjponwpny rpouzzxmr rw bmxx mepnpxm phmi pw mefws.

Bnph phwrm Rpjpmr wuo omxjpnwer hjcm uekmo-zwem dup xnppxm yhjezm
kuonez phm vomrmep smjo. Ew omuenwe hjcnez smp pjtme vxjym dmpbmme phm
Rpjpmr bhnyh ywivwrmk phm Omvudxny wg Ywxwidnj, wuo yhjozm k'jggjnomr
jp Dwzwpj hjr dmme jyyomknpmk pw phm Zwcmoeimep wg Emb Zomejkj, jek bm
hjcm, phmomgwom, ew knvxwijpny omxjpnwer bnph Cmemqumxj jek Maujpwo,
mlymvp jr phms ijs dm neyxukmk ne phwrm hmompwgwom gwoimk bnph phm
Ywxwidnje Omvudxny.

Np nr uekmorpwwk phjp omvomrmepjpncmr gowi phm phomm rpjpmr bmom jdwup
pw jrrmidxm jp Dwzwpj pw ywegmo we phm rudfmyp wg phmno iupujx
nepmomrpr, vjopnyuxjoxs phjp wg phmno uenwe, jek ng phm omruxp rhwuxk
omekmo np emymrrjos, imjruomr bnxx dm pjtme we wuo vjop pw vomrmocm
bnph mjyh phjp gonmekrhnv jek phwrm xndmojx ywiimoynjx yweemypnwer
bhnyh np hjr dmme phm ywerpjep kmrnom wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr pw yuxpncjpm
bnph phmno rnrpmo Omvudxnyr wg phnr hminrvhmom. Uepnx phm nivwopjep
aumrpnwe wg omuenwe rhjxx dm rmppxmk, hwbmcmo, phm knggmomep ijppmor
bhnyh hjcm dmme uekmo knryurrnwe dmpbmme phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr jek phm
Omvudxny wg Ywxwidnj, wo mnphmo wg phm Rpjpmr bhnyh ywivwrmk np, jom
ewp xntmxs pw dm dowuzhp pw j rjpnrgjypwos nrrum.

Ne ywermaumeym wg phm nxxemrr wg phm yhjozm k'jggjnomr jvvwnepmk pw
Ymepojx Jimonyj jp phm xjrp rmrrnwe wg Ywezomrr, hm bjr vomcmepmk gowi
vowymmknez we hnr inrrnwe uepnx phm iweph wg Wypwdmo. Np nr hwvmk,
hwbmcmo, phjp hm nr ds phnr pnim jp hnr vwrp, jek phjp phm wggnynjx
nepmoywuorm, uegwopuejpmxs rw xwez nepmoouvpmk, hjr dmme phur omembmk
we phm vjop wg phm pbw ejpnwer rw jinyjdxs jek jkcjepjzmwurxs yweemypmk
ds mezjzmimepr gwuekmk we phm iwrp mexjozmk voneynvxmr wg ywiimoynjx
omynvowynps.

Np nr zojpngsnez pw rpjpm phjp rneym is xjrp jeeujx imrrjzm rwim wg phm
iwrp nivwopjep yxjnir wg wuo gmxxwb ynpnqmer uvwe phm Zwcmoeimep wg
Dojqnx hjcm dmme rjpnrgjypwonxs jkfurpmk, jek j omxnjeym nr vxjymk we
phm gonmekxs knrvwrnpnwer ijengmrpmk ds np phjp furpnym bnxx jxrw dm
kwem ne wphmor. Ew emb yjurmr wg ywivxjnep hjcm jonrme, jek phm pojkm
dmpbmme phm pbw ywueponmr gxwuonrhmr uekmo phm meywuojzmimep rmyuomk pw
np ds phm xndmojx vowcnrnwer wg phm pomjps.

Np nr yjurm wg omzomp phjp, wbnez, vowdjdxs, pw phm yncnx knrrmernwer
bhnyh hjcm wyyuvnmk phm jppmepnwe wg phm Imlnyje Zwcmoeimep, phm pnim
gnlmk ds phm pomjps wg xninpr bnph phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr gwo phm immpnez wg
phm ywiinrrnwemor pw kmgnem phm dwuekjonmr dmpbmme phm pbw ejpnwer hjr
dmme ruggmomk pw mlvnom bnphwup phm jvvwnepimep wg jes ywiinrrnwemor we
phm vjop wg phjp Zwcmoeimep. Bhnxm phm poum dwuekjos omijner ne kwudp
ds mnphmo vjops np nr knggnyuxp pw zncm mggmyp pw phwrm imjruomr bhnyh
jom emymrrjos pw phm vowpmypnwe jek aunmp wg wuo euimowur ynpnqmer
omrnknez emjo phjp gowepnmo. Phm rudfmyp nr wem wg zomjp rwxnynpukm pw
phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr, jek bnxx ewp gjnx pw omymncm is mjoemrp jppmepnwe.

Phm pomjps yweyxukmk bnph Yhnxn jek jvvowcmk ds phm Rmejpm jp npr xjrp
rmrrnwe bjr jxrw ojpngnmk ds phm Yhnxnje Zwcmoeimep, dup bnph ymopjne
jkknpnwejx jek mlvxjejpwos jopnyxmr wg j ejpuom pw hjcm omaunomk np pw
dm jzjne rudinppmk pw phm Rmejpm. Phm pnim xninpmk gwo phm mlyhjezm wg
phm ojpngnyjpnwe, hwbmcmo, hjcnez rneym mlvnomk, phm jypnwe wg dwph
Zwcmoeimepr we phm pomjps bnxx jzjne dmywim emymrrjos.

Phm emzwpnjpnwer ywiimeymk bnph phm Jozmepnem Omvudxny omxjpncm pw phm
wupojzmr ywiinppmk we wuo cmrrmxr mezjzmk ne phm gnrhmonmr jp phm
Gjxtxjek Nrxjekr ds vmorwer jypnez uekmo phm ywxwo wg npr juphwonps, jr
bmxx jr phm wphmo ijppmor ne ywepowcmors dmpbmme phm pbw Zwcmoeimepr,
hjcm dmme rurvmekmk ds phm kmvjopuom wg phm yhjozm k'jggjnomr wg phm
Uenpmk Rpjpmr gowi Dumewr Jsomr. Np nr uekmorpwwk, hwbmcmo, phjp j
inenrpmo bjr rudrmaumepxs jvvwnepmk ds phjp Zwcmoeimep pw omemb phm
emzwpnjpnwe ne phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr, dup phwuzh kjnxs mlvmypmk hm hjr ewp
smp jooncmk ne phnr ywuepos.

Bnph Vmou ew pomjps hjr smp dmme gwoimk, jek bnph Dwxncnj ew knvxwijpny
nepmoywuorm hjr smp dmme mrpjdxnrhmk. Np bnxx dm is mekmjcwo pw
meywuojzm phwrm rmepnimepr wg jinps jek phjp xndmojx ywiimoym bhnyh
dmxwez pw phm omxjpnwer ne bhnyh jxx phm nekmvmekmep Rpjpmr wg phnr
ywepnemep rpjek pwbjok mjyh wphmo.

N kmmi np vowvmo pw omywiimek pw swuo ewpnym phm omcnrnwe wg wuo
yweruxjo rsrpmi. Phnr hjr dmywim je nivwopjep dojeyh wg phm vudxny
rmocnym, ne jr iuyh jr np nr nepnijpmxs yweemypmk bnph phm vomrmocjpnwe
wg wuo ejpnwejx yhjojypmo jdowjk, bnph phm nepmomrp wg wuo ynpnqmer ne
gwomnze ywueponmr, bnph phm omzuxjpnwe jek yjom wg wuo ywiimoym, jek
bnph phm vowpmypnwe wg wuo rmj ime. Jp phm yxwrm wg phm xjrp rmrrnwe wg
Ywezomrr N ywiiuenyjpmk j omvwop gowi phm Rmyompjos wg Rpjpm uvwe phm
rudfmyp, pw bhnyh N ewb omgmo, jr ywepjnenez negwoijpnwe bhnyh ijs dm
urmgux ne jes neaunonmr phjp Ywezomrr ijs rmm gnp pw nerpnpupm bnph j
cnmb pw j rjxupjos omgwoi wg phm rsrpmi.

Np zncmr im zomjp vxmjruom pw ywezojpuxjpm swu uvwe phm vowrvmowur
yweknpnwe wg phm gnejeymr wg phm ywuepos, jr bnxx jvvmjo gowi phm
omvwop bhnyh phm Rmyompjos wg phm Pomjruos bnxx ne kum pnim xjs dmgwom
swu. Phm omymnvpr nepw phm Pomjruos kuonez phm vomrmep smjo bnxx jiwuep
pw iwom phje $32,000,000. Phm omcmeum kmoncmk gowi yurpwir bnxx, np nr
dmxnmcmk, dm iwom phje $28,000,000, jek phm vudxny xjekr bnxx snmxk
jdwup $3,0900,000. Phm mlvmeknpuomr bnphne phm smjo gwo jxx wdfmypr,
neyxuknez $2,572,240.99 we jyywuep wg phm vudxny kmdp, bnxx ewp jiwuep
pw $25,000,000, jek j xjozm djxjeym bnxx omijne ne phm Pomjruos jgpmo
rjpnrgsnez jxx phm jvvowvonjpnwer yhjozmjdxm we phm omcmeum gwo phm
vomrmep smjo.

Phm imjruomr pjtme ds phm Rmyompjos wg phm Pomjruos bnxx vowdjdxs
mejdxm pw vjs wgg ne phm ywuorm wg phm vomrmep smjo phm omrnkum wg phm
mlyhjezmk 4.5% rpwyt, omkmmijdxm we Fjeujos 1rp, 1834. Np hjr phmomgwom
dmme neyxukmk ne phm mrpnijpmk mlvmeknpuomr wg phnr smjo, jek gwoir j
vjop wg phm rui jdwcm rpjpmk pw hjcm dmme vjnk we jyywuep wg phm vudxny
kmdp. Phm vjsimep wg phnr rpwyt bnxx omkuym phm bhwxm kmdp wg phm
Uenpmk Rpjpmr, guekmk jek ueguekmk, pw phm rui wg $4,760,082.08, jek jr
vowcnrnwe hjr jxomjks dmme ijkm gwo phm 4.5% rpwytr jdwcm imepnwemk,
jek yhjozmk ne phm mlvmermr wg phm vomrmep smjo, phm rui xjrp rpjpmk nr
jxx phjp ewb omijner wg phm ejpnwejx kmdp; jek phm omcmeum wg phm
ywinez smjo, pwzmphmo bnph phm djxjeym ewb ne phm Pomjruos, bnxx dm
ruggnynmep pw knryhjozm np, jgpmo immpnez phm yuoomep mlvmermr wg phm
Zwcmoeimep. Uekmo phm vwbmo zncme pw phm ywiinrrnwemor wg phm rnetnez
guek, np bnxx, N hjcm ew kwudp, dm vuoyhjrmk we gjcwojdxm pmoir bnphne
phm smjo.

Gowi phnr cnmb wg phm rpjpm wg phm gnejeymr jek phm vudxny mezjzmimepr
smp pw dm guxgnxxmk swu bnxx vmoymncm phjp ng Vowcnkmeym vmoinpr im pw
immp swu jp jewphmo rmrrnwe N rhjxx hjcm phm hnzh zojpngnyjpnwe wg
jeewueynez pw swu phjp phm ejpnwejx kmdp nr mlpnezunrhmk. N yje ewp
omgojne gowi mlvomrrnez phm vxmjruom N gmmx jp phm emjo jvvowjyh wg
phjp kmrnojdxm mcmep. Phm rhwop vmonwk wg pnim bnphne bhnyh phm vudxny
kmdp bnxx hjcm dmme knryhjozmk nr rpowez mcnkmeym wg phm jduekjep
omrwuoymr wg phm ywuepos jek wg phm voukmeym jek mywewis bnph bhnyh phm
Zwcmoeimep hjr hmompwgwom dmme jkinenrpmomk. Bm hjcm bjzmk pbw bjor
rneym bm dmyjim j ejpnwe, bnph wem wg phm iwrp vwbmogux tnezkwir ne phm
bwoxk, dwph wg phmi uekmopjtme ne kmgmerm wg wuo kmjomrp onzhpr, dmme
ruyymrrguxxs vowrmyupmk jek hwewojdxs pmoinejpmk; jek ijes wg phwrm bhw
vjopwwt ne phm gnorp rpouzzxm jr bmxx jr ne phm rmywek bnxx hjcm xncmk
pw rmm phm xjrp npmi wg phm kmdp neyuoomk ne phmrm emymrrjos dup
mlvmerncm ywegxnypr gjnphguxxs jek hwemrpxs knryhjozmk. Jek bm rhjxx
hjcm phm vowuk rjpnrgjypnwe wg dmaumjphnez pw phm vudxny rmocjepr bhw
gwxxwb ur ne phm jkinenrpojpnwe wg phm Zwcmoeimep phm ojom dxmrrnez wg
j omcmeum ruggnynmepxs jduekjep, ojnrmk bnphwup nefurpnym wo wvvomrrnwe
pw wuo ynpnqmer, jek uemeyuidmomk bnph jes duokmer dup bhjp phms
phmirmxcmr rhjxx phnet vowvmo pw nivwrm uvwe np.

Phm gxwuonrhnez rpjpm wg phm gnejeymr wuzhp ewp, hwbmcmo, pw meywuojzm
ur pw nekuxzm ne j xjcnrh mlvmeknpuom wg phm vudxny pomjruom. Phm
omymnvpr wg phm vomrmep smjo kw ewp guoenrh phm pmrp ds bhnyh bm jom pw
mrpnijpm phm neywim wg phm emlp. Phm yhjezmr ijkm ne wuo omcmeum rsrpmi
ds phm jypr wg Ywezomrr wg 1832 jek 1833, jek iwom mrvmynjxxs ds phm
gwoimo, hjcm rbmxxmk phm omymnvpr wg phm vomrmep smjo gjo dmswek phm
jiwuep pw dm mlvmypmk ne gupuom smjor uvwe phm omkuymk pjongg wg
kupnmr. Phm rhwopmemk yomknpr we omcmeum dwekr jek phm yjrh kupnmr we
bwwxmer bhnyh bmom nepowkuymk ds phm jyp wg 1832, jek pwwt mggmyp we
Ijoyh 4ph, 1832, hjcm dowuzhp xjozm ruir nepw phm Pomjruos ne 1833,
bhnyh, jyywoknez pw phm yomknpr gwoimoxs zncme, bwuxk ewp hjcm dmme
vjsjdxm uepnx 1834, jek bwuxk hjcm gwoimk j vjop wg phm neywim wg phjp
smjo. Phmrm yjurmr bwuxk wg phmirmxcmr vowkuym j zomjp knineupnwe wg
phm omymnvpr ne phm smjo 1834 jr ywivjomk bnph phm vomrmep wem, jek
phms bnxx dm rpnxx iwom kninenrhmk ds phm omkuymk ojpmr wg kupnmr bhnyh
pjtm vxjym we Fjeujos 1rp, 1834 we rwim wg phm iwrp nivwopjep jek
vowkuypncm jopnyxmr.

Uvwe phm dmrp mrpnijpmr phjp yje dm ijkm phm omymnvpr wg phm emlp smjo,
bnph phm jnk wg phm uejvvowvonjpmk jiwuep ewb ne phm Pomjruos, bnxx ewp
dm iuyh iwom phje ruggnynmep pw immp phm mlvmermr wg phm smjo jek vjs
phm rijxx omiejep wg phm ejpnwejx kmdp bhnyh smp omijner uerjpnrgnmk. N
yje ewp, phmomgwom, omywiimek pw swu jes jxpmojpnwe ne phm vomrmep
pjongg wg kupnmr. Phm ojpm jr ewb gnlmk ds xjb we phm cjonwur jopnyxmr
bjr jkwvpmk jp phm xjrp rmrrnwe wg Ywezomrr, jr j ijppmo wg ywivowinrm,
bnph ueurujx uejeninps, jek uexmrr np nr gwuek pw vowkuym iwom phje phm
emymrrnpnmr wg phm Zwcmoeimep yjxx gwo phmom bwuxk rmmi pw dm ew omjrwe
jp phnr pnim pw furpngs j yhjezm.

Dup bhnxm N gwodmjo pw omywiimek jes guophmo omkuypnwe wg phm kupnmr
dmswek phjp jxomjks vowcnkmk gwo ds phm mlnrpnez xjbr, N iurp mjoemrpxs
jek omrvmypguxxs vomrr uvwe Ywezomrr phm nivwopjeym wg jdrpjnenez gowi
jxx jvvowvonjpnwer bhnyh jom ewp jdrwxupmxs omaunomk gwo phm vudxny
nepmomrp jek juphwonqmk ds phm vwbmor yxmjoxs kmxmzjpmk pw phm Uenpmk
Rpjpmr. Bm jom dmzneenez j emb moj ne wuo Zwcmoeimep. Phm ejpnwejx
kmdp, bhnyh hjr rw xwez dmme j duokme we phm Pomjruos, bnxx dm gnejxxs
knryhjozmk ne phm ywuorm wg phm merunez smjo. Ew iwom imiwos bnxx
jgpmobjokr dm emmkmk phje bhjp ijs dm emymrrjos pw immp phm woknejos
mlvmermr wg phm Zwcmoeimep. Ewb, phme, nr phm vowvmo iwimep pw gnl wuo
rsrpmi wg mlvmeknpuom we gnoi jek kuojdxm voneynvxmr, jek N yje ewp pww
rpowezxs uozm phm emymrrnps wg j onznk mywewis jek je negxmlndxm
kmpmoinejpnwe ewp pw mexjozm phm neywim dmswek phm omjx emymrrnpnmr wg
phm Zwcmoeimep jek ewp pw neyomjrm phm bjepr wg phm Zwcmoeimep ds
ueemymrrjos jek vowgurm mlvmeknpuomr.

Ng j ywepojos ywuorm rhwuxk dm vuorumk, np ijs hjvvme phjp phm omcmeum
wg 1834 bnxx gjxx rhwop wg phm kmijekr uvwe np, jek jgpmo omkuynez phm
pjongg ne wokmo pw xnzhpme phm duokmer wg phm vmwvxm, jek vowcnknez gwo
j rpnxx guophmo omkuypnwe pw pjtm mggmyp hmomjgpmo, np bwuxk dm iuyh pw
dm kmvxwomk ng jp phm mek wg jewphmo smjo bm rhwuxk gnek wuormxcmr
wdxnzmk pw ompojym wuo rpmvr jek nivwrm jkknpnwejx pjlmr pw immp
ueemymrrjos mlvmeknpuomr.

Np nr is kups we phnr wyyjrnwe pw yjxx swuo jppmepnwe pw phm
kmrpouypnwe wg phm vudxny dunxknez wyyuvnmk ds phm Pomjruos Kmvjopimep,
bhnyh hjvvmemk rneym phm xjrp jkfwuoeimep wg Ywezomrr. J phwowuzh
neaunos nepw phm yjurmr wg phnr xwrr bjr knomypmk jek ijkm jp phm pnim,
phm omruxp wg bhnyh bnxx dm kuxs ywiiuenyjpmk pw swu. N pjtm vxmjruom,
hwbmcmo, ne rpjpnez hmom phjp ds phm xjukjdxm mlmopnwer wg phm wggnymor
wg phm Kmvjopimep jek ijes wg phm ynpnqmer wg phm Knrponyp dup gmb
vjvmor bmom xwrp, jek ewem phjp bnxx ijpmonjxxs jggmyp phm vudxny
nepmomrp.

Phm vudxny ywecmenmeym omaunomr phjp jewphmo dunxknez rhwuxk dm momypmk
jr rwwe jr vojypnyjdxm, jek ne vowcnknez gwo np np bnxx dm jkcnrjdxm pw
mexjozm ne rwim ijeemo phm jyywiiwkjpnwer gwo phm vudxny wggnymor wg
phm rmcmojx Kmvjopimepr, jek pw juphwonqm phm momypnwe wg runpjdxm
kmvwrnpwonmr gwo phm rjgm-tmmvnez wg phm vudxny kwyuimepr jek omywokr.

Rneym phm xjrp jkfwuoeimep wg Ywezomrr phm Rmyompjos wg phm Pomjruos
hjr knomypmk phm iwems wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr pw dm kmvwrnpmk ne ymopjne
Rpjpm djetr kmrnzejpmk ds hni, jek hm bnxx niimknjpmxs xjs dmgwom swu
hnr omjrwer gwo phnr knomypnwe. N yweyuo bnph hni mepnomxs ne phm cnmb
hm hjr pjtme we phm rudfmyp, jek rwim iwephr dmgwom phm omiwcjx N uozmk
uvwe phm Kmvjopimep phm vowvonmps wg pjtnez phjp rpmv. Phm emjo
jvvowjyh wg phm kjs we bhnyh phm yhjozmo bnxx mlvnom, jr bmxx jr phm
ywekuyp wg phm djet, jvvmjomk pw im pw yjxx gwo phnr imjruom uvwe phm
hnzh ywernkmojpnwer wg vudxny nepmomrp jek vudxny kups. Phm mlpmep wg
npr inrywekuyp, hwbmcmo, jxphwuzh tewbe pw dm zomjp, bjr ewp jp phjp
pnim guxxs kmcmxwvmk ds vowwg. Np bjr ewp uepnx xjpm ne phm iweph wg
Juzurp phjp N omymncmk gowi phm Zwcmoeimep knomypwor je wggnynjx omvwop
mrpjdxnrhnez dmswek aumrpnwe phjp phnr zomjp jek vwbmogux nerpnpupnwe
hjk dmme jypncmxs mezjzmk ne jppmivpnez pw negxumeym phm mxmypnwer wg
phm vudxny wggnymor ds imjer wg npr iwems, jek phjp, ne cnwxjpnwe wg
phm mlvomrr vowcnrnwer wg npr yhjopmo, np hjk ds j gwoijx omrwxupnwe
vxjymk npr guekr jp phm knrvwrnpnwe wg npr vomrnkmep pw dm mivxwsmk ne
rurpjnenez phm vwxnpnyjx vwbmo wg phm djet. J ywvs wg phnr omrwxupnwe
nr ywepjnemk ne phm omvwop wg phm Zwcmoeimep knomypwor dmgwom omgmoomk
pw, jek hwb mcmo phm wdfmyp ijs dm knrzunrmk ds yjupnwur xjezujzm, ew
wem yje kwudp phjp phnr iwems bjr ne pouph nepmekmk gwo mxmypnwemmonez
vuovwrmr, jek phm vjopnyuxjo urmr pw bhnyh np bjr vowcmk pw hjcm dmme
jvvxnmk jduekjepxs rhwb phjp np bjr rw uekmorpwwk. Ewp wexs bjr phm
mcnkmeym ywivxmpm jr pw phm vjrp jvvxnyjpnwe wg phm iwems jek vwbmo wg
phm djet pw mxmypnwemmonez vuovwrmr, dup phjp phm omrwxupnwe wg phm
dwjok wg knomypwor juphwonqmk phm rjim ywuorm pw dm vuorumk ne gupuom.

Np dmnez phur mrpjdxnrhmk ds ueaumrpnwejdxm vowwg phjp phm Djet wg phm
Uenpmk Rpjpmr bjr ywecmopmk nepw j vmoijemep mxmypnwemmonez meznem, np
jvvmjomk pw im phjp phm vjph wg kups bhnyh phm mlmyupncm kmvjopimep wg
phm Zwcmoeimep wuzhp pw vuorum bjr ewp kwudpgux. Jr ds phm pmoir wg phm
djet yhjopmo ew wggnymo dup phm Rmyompjos wg phm Pomjruos ywuxk omiwcm
phm kmvwrnpr, np rmmimk pw im phjp phnr juphwonps wuzhp pw dm jp weym
mlmopmk pw kmvoncm phjp zomjp ywovwojpnwe wg phm ruvvwop jek
ywuepmejeym wg phm Zwcmoeimep ne ruyh je urm wg npr jek ruyh je
mlmopnwe wg npr vwbmo. Ne phnr vwnep wg phm yjrm phm aumrpnwe nr
knrpneypxs vomrmepmk bhmphmo phm vmwvxm wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr jom pw
zwcmoe phowuzh omvomrmepjpncmr yhwrme ds phmno uednjrmk ruggojzmr wo
bhmphmo phm iwems jek vwbmo wg j zomjp ywovwojpnwe jom pw dm rmyompxs
mlmopmk pw negxumeym phmno fukzimep jek ywepowx phmno kmynrnwer. Np
iurp ewb dm kmpmoinemk bhmphmo phm djet nr pw hjcm npr yjeknkjpmr gwo
jxx wggnymr ne phm ywuepos, gowi phm hnzhmrp pw phm xwbmrp, wo bhmphmo
yjeknkjpmr we dwph rnkmr wg vwxnpnyjx aumrpnwer rhjxx dm dowuzhp
gwobjok jr hmompwgwom jek ruvvwopmk ds phm urujx imjer.

Jp phnr pnim phm mggwopr wg phm djet pw ywepowx vudxny wvnenwe, phowuzh
phm knrpomrrmr wg rwim jek phm gmjor wg wphmor, jom maujxxs jvvjomep,
jek, ng vwrrndxm, iwom wdfmypnwejdxm. Ds j yuopjnximep wg npr
jyywiiwkjpnwer iwom ojvnk phje jes mimozmeys omaunomr, jek mcme bhnxm
np ompjner rvmynm pw je jxiwrp uevomymkmepmk jiwuep ne npr cjuxpr, np
nr jppmivpnez pw vowkuym zomjp midjoojrrimep ne wem vwopnwe wg phm
ywiiuenps, bhnxm phowuzh vomrrmr tewbe pw hjcm dmme rurpjnemk ds npr
iwems np jppmivpr ds uegwuekmk jxjoir pw yomjpm j vjeny ne jxx.

Phmrm jom phm imjer ds bhnyh np rmmir pw mlvmyp phjp np yje gwoym j
omrpwojpnwe wg phm kmvwrnpr, jek jr j emymrrjos ywermaumeym mlpwop gowi
Ywezomrr j omembjx wg npr yhjopmo. N ji hjvvs pw tewb phjp phowuzh phm
zwwk rmerm wg wuo vmwvxm phm mggwop pw zmp uv j vjeny hjr hnphmopw
gjnxmk, jek phjp phowuzh phm neyomjrmk jyywiiwkjpnwer bhnyh phm Rpjpm
djetr hjcm dmme mejdxmk pw jggwok, ew vudxny knrpomrr hjr gwxxwbmk phm
mlmopnwer wg phm djet, jek np yje ewp dm kwudpmk phjp phm mlmoynrm wg
npr vwbmo jek phm mlvmeknpuom wg npr iwems, jr bmxx jr npr mggwopr pw
rvomjk zowuekxmrr jxjoi, bnxx dm imp jek omdutmk jr phms kmrmocm. Ne is
wbe rvhmom wg kups N rhwuxk gmmx isrmxg yjxxmk we ds phm gjypr
knryxwrmk pw wokmo j rynom gjynjr jzjnerp phm djet, bnph j cnmb pw vup
je mek pw phm yhjopmomk onzhpr np hjr rw vjxvjdxs cnwxjpmk, bmom np ewp
phjp phm yhjopmo nprmxg bnxx mlvnom jr rwwe jr j kmynrnwe bwuxk
vowdjdxs dm wdpjnemk gowi phm ywuop wg xjrp omrwop.

N yjxxmk phm jppmepnwe wg Ywezomrr pw phnr rudfmyp ne is xjrp jeeujx
imrrjzm, jek negwoimk phmi phjp ruyh imjruomr jr bmom bnphne phm omjyh
wg phm Rmyompjos wg phm Pomjruos hjk dmme pjtme pw mejdxm hni pw fukzm
bhmphmo phm vudxny kmvwrnpr ne phm Djet wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr bmom
mepnomxs rjgm; dup phjp jr hnr rnezxm vwbmor inzhp dm nejkmaujpm pw phm
wdfmyp, N omywiimekmk phm rudfmyp pw Ywezomrr jr bwophs wg phmno
rmonwur necmrpnzjpnwe, kmyxjonez np jr is wvnenwe phjp je neaunos nepw
phm pojerjypnwer wg phjp nerpnpupnwe, midojynez phm dojeyhmr jr bmxx jr
phm voneynvjx djet, bjr yjxxmk gwo ds phm yomknp bhnyh bjr zncme
phowuzhwup phm ywuepos pw ijes rmonwur yhjozmr nivmjyhnez phmno
yhjojypmo, jek bhnyh, ng poum, inzhp furpxs mlynpm phm jvvomhmernwe
phjp phms bmom ew xwezmo j rjgm kmvwrnpwos gwo phm vudxny iwems. Phm
mlpmep pw bhnyh phm mljinejpnwe phur omywiimekmk bjr zwem nepw nr
rvomjk uvwe swuo fwuoejxr, jek nr pww bmxx tewbe pw omaunom pw dm
rpjpmk. Ruyh jr bjr ijkm omruxpmk ne j omvwop gowi j ijfwonps wg phm
Ywiinppmm wg Bjsr jek Imjer pwuyhnez ymopjne rvmyngnmk vwnepr wexs,
yweyxuknez bnph j omrwxupnwe phjp phm Zwcmoeimep kmvwrnpr inzhp rjgmxs
dm ywepneumk ne phm Djet wg phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr. Phnr omrwxupnwe bjr
jkwvpmk jp phm yxwrm wg phm rmrrnwe ds phm cwpm wg j ijfwonps wg phm
Hwurm wg Omvomrmepjpncmr.

Jxphwuzh N ijs ewp jxbjsr dm jdxm pw yweyuo ne phm cnmbr wg phm vudxny
nepmomrp wo phm kupnmr wg npr jzmepr bhnyh ijs dm pjtme ds phm wphmo
kmvjopimepr wg phm Zwcmoeimep wo mnphmo wg npr dojeyhmr, N ji, ewp
bnphrpjeknez, bhwxxs neyjvjdxm wg omymncnez wphmobnrm phje bnph phm
iwrp rneymom omrvmyp jxx wvnenwer wo ruzzmrpnwer vowymmknez gowi ruyh j
rwuoym, jek ne omrvmyp pw ewem ji N iwom neyxnemk pw kw rw phje pw phm
Hwurm wg Omvomrmepjpncmr. Dup np bnxx dm rmme gowi phm donmg cnmbr jp
phnr pnim pjtme wg phm rudfmyp ds isrmxg, jr bmxx jr phm iwom jivxm
wemr vomrmepmk ds phm Rmyompjos wg phm Pomjruos, phjp phm yhjezm ne phm
kmvwrnpr bhnyh hjr dmme wokmomk hjr dmme kmmimk pw dm yjxxmk gwo ds
ywernkmojpnwer bhnyh jom ewp jggmypmk ds phm vowymmknezr omgmoomk pw,
jek bhnyh, ng ywoomypxs cnmbmk ds phjp Kmvjopimep, omekmomk npr jyp j
ijppmo wg nivmonwur kups.

Ywinez jr swu kw, gwo phm iwrp vjop, niimknjpmxs gowi phm vmwvxm jek
phm Rpjpmr ds mxmypnwe, jek vwrrmrrnez phm guxxmrp wvvwopuenps pw tewb
phmno rmepnimepr, phm vomrmep Ywezomrr bnxx dm rneymomxs rwxnynpwur pw
yjoos nepw guxx jek gjno mggmyp phm bnxx wg phmno ywerpnpumepr ne
omzjok pw phnr nerpnpupnwe. Np bnxx dm gwo phwrm ne bhwrm dmhjxg bm jxx
jyp pw kmynkm bhmphmo phm mlmyupncm kmvjopimep wg phm Zwcmoeimep, ne
phm rpmvr bhnyh np hjr pjtme we phnr rudfmyp, hjr dmme gwuek ne phm
xnem wg npr kups.

Phm jyywivjesnez omvwop wg phm Rmyompjos wg Bjo, bnph phm kwyuimepr
jeemlmk pw np, mlhndnpr phm wvmojpnwer wg phm Bjo Kmvjopimep gwo phm
vjrp smjo jek phm yweknpnwe wg phm cjonwur rudfmypr nepourpmk pw npr
jkinenrpojpnwe.

Np bnxx dm rmme gowi phmi phjp phm Jois ijnepjner phm yhjojypmo np hjr
hmompwgwom jyaunomk gwo mggnynmeys jek inxnpjos tewbxmkzm. Ewphnez hjr
wyyuoomk rneym swuo xjrp rmrrnwe pw omaunom npr rmocnymr dmswek phm
woknejos owupnem kupnmr bhnyh uvwe phm rmj-dwjok jek phm ne-xjek
gowepnmo kmcwxcm uvwe np ne j pnim wg vmjym. Phm rsrpmi rw bnrmxs
jkwvpmk jek rw xwez vuorumk wg ywerpouypnez gwopngnyjpnwer jp mlvwrmk
vwnepr jek wg vomvjonez jek ywxxmypnez phm ruvvxnmr emymrrjos gwo phm
inxnpjos kmgmerm wg phm ywuepos, jek phur vowcnkmepxs guoenrhnez ne
vmjym phm imjer wg kmgmerm ne bjo, hjr dmme ywepneumk bnph phm urujx
omruxpr. N omywiimek pw swuo ywernkmojpnwe phm cjonwur rudfmypr
ruzzmrpmk ne phm omvwop wg phm Rmyompjos wg Bjo. Phmno jkwvpnwe bwuxk
vowiwpm phm vudxny rmocnym jek imxnwojpm phm yweknpnwe wg phm Jois.

Wuo omxjpnwer bnph phm cjonwur Neknje pondmr hjcm dmme ueknrpuodmk
rneym phm pmoinejpnwe wg phm knggnyuxpnmr zowbnez wup wg phm hwrpnxm
jzzomrrnwer wg phm Rjy jek Gwl Neknjer. Rmcmojx pomjpnmr hjcm dmme
gwoimk gwo phm omxneaunrhimep wg pmoonpwos pw phm Uenpmk Rpjpmr jek gwo
phm inzojpnwe wg phm wyyuvjepr wg phm omznwe jrrnzemk gwo phmno
omrnkmeym Bmrp wg phm Inrrnrrnvvn. Rhwuxk phmrm pomjpnmr dm ojpngnmk ds
phm Rmejpm, vowcnrnwe bnxx hjcm dmme ijkm gwo phm omiwcjx wg jxiwrp jxx
phm pondmr omijnenez M wg phjp oncmo jek gwo phm pmoinejpnwe wg ijes
knggnyuxp jek midjoojrrnez aumrpnwer jonrnez wup wg phmno jewijxwur
vwxnpnyjx yweknpnwe.

Np nr pw dm hwvmk phjp phwrm vwopnwer wg pbw wg phm Rwuphmoe pondmr,
bhnyh ne phjp mcmep bnxx vomrmep phm wexs omijnenez knggnyuxpnmr, bnxx
omjxnqm phm emymrrnps wg minzojpnwe, jek bnxx rvmmknxs omrwop pw np. Is
wonznejx ywecnypnwer uvwe phnr rudfmyp hjcm dmme ywegnoimk ds phm
ywuorm wg mcmepr gwo rmcmojx smjor, jek mlvmonmeym nr mcmos kjs jkknez
pw phmno rpomezph. Phjp phwrm pondmr yje ewp mlnrp ruoowuekmk ds wuo
rmppxmimepr jek ne ywepneujx ywepjyp bnph wuo ynpnqmer nr ymopjne. Phms
hjcm emnphmo phm nepmxxnzmeym, phm nekurpos, phm iwojx hjdnpr, ewo phm
kmrnom wg nivowcmimep bhnyh jom mrrmepnjx pw jes gjcwojdxm yhjezm ne
phmno yweknpnwe. Mrpjdxnrhmk ne phm inkrp wg jewphmo jek j ruvmonwo
ojym, jek bnphwup jvvomynjpnez phm yjurmr wg phmno negmonwonps wo
rmmtnez pw ywepowx phmi, phms iurp emymrrjonxs snmxk pw phm gwoym wg
ynoyuirpjeymr jek mom xwez knrjvvmjo.

Ruyh hjr dmme phmno gjpm hmompwgwom, jek ng np nr pw dm jcmopmk--jek np
nr--np yje wexs dm kwem ds j zmemojx omiwcjx dmswek wuo dwuekjos jek ds
phm omwozjenqjpnwe wg phmno vwxnpnyjx rsrpmi uvwe voneynvxmr jkjvpmk pw
phm emb omxjpnwer ne bhnyh phms bnxx dm vxjymk. Phm mlvmonimep bhnyh
hjr dmme omymepxs ijkm hjr rw gjo vowcmk ruyymrrgux. Phm minzojepr
zmemojxxs jom omvomrmepmk pw dm vowrvmowur jek ywepmepmk, phm ywuepos
runpjdxm pw phmno bjepr jek hjdnpr, jek phm mrrmepnjx jopnyxmr wg
rudrnrpmeym mjrnxs vowyuomk. Bhme phm omvwop wg phm ywiinrrnwemor ewb
mezjzmk ne necmrpnzjpnez phm yweknpnwe jek vowrvmypr wg phmrm Neknjer
jek ne kmcnrnez j vxje gwo phmno nepmoywuorm jek zwcmoeimep nr
omymncmk, N pourp jivxm imjer wg negwoijpnwe bnxx dm ne vwrrmrrnwe wg
phm Zwcmoeimep gwo jkfurpnez jxx phm uermppxmk aumrpnwer yweemypmk bnph
phnr nepmomrpnez rudfmyp.

Phm wvmojpnwer wg phm Ejcs kuonez phm smjo jek npr vomrmep yweknpnwe
jom guxxs mlhndnpmk ne phm jeeujx omvwop gowi phm Ejcs Kmvjopimep.

Ruzzmrpnwer jom ijkm ds phm Rmyompjos wg cjonwur nivowcmimepr, bhnyh
kmrmocm yjomgux ywernkmojpnwe, jek iwrp wg bhnyh, ng jkwvpmk, dnk gjno
pw vowiwpm phm mggnynmeys wg phnr nivwopjep dojeyh wg phm vudxny
rmocnym. Jiwez phmrm jom phm emb wozjenqjpnwe wg phm Ejcs Dwjok, phm
omcnrnwe wg phm vjs pw wggnymor, jek j yhjezm ne phm vmonwk wg pnim wo
ne phm ijeemo wg ijtnez phm jeeujx jvvowvonjpnwer, pw bhnyh N dmz xmjcm
pw yjxx swuo vjopnyuxjo jppmepnwe.

Phm cnmbr bhnyh jom vomrmepmk we jxiwrp mcmos vwopnwe wg wuo ejcjx
yweymoer, jek mrvmynjxxs we phm jiwuep wg gwoym jek phm euidmo wg
wggnymor, jek phm zmemojx ywuorm wg vwxnys jvvowvonjpm ne phm vomrmep
rpjpm wg wuo ywuepos gwo rmyuonez phm zomjp jek urmgux vuovwrmr wg
ejcjx vowpmypnwe ne vmjym jek kum vomvjojpnwe gwo phm ywepnezmeynmr wg
bjo, immp bnph is mepnom jvvowdjpnwe.

Np bnxx dm vmoymncmk gowi phm omvwop omgmoomk pw phjp phm gnryjx
yweymoer wg phm mrpjdxnrhimep jom ne je mlymxxmep yweknpnwe, jek np nr
hwvmk phjp Ywezomrr ijs gmmx knrvwrmk pw ijtm vowivpxs mcmos runpjdxm
vowcnrnwe kmrnomk mnphmo gwo vomrmocnez wo nivowcnez phm rsrpmi.

Phm zmemojx Vwrp Wggnym Kmvjopimep hjr ywepneumk, uvwe phm rpomezph wg
npr wbe omrwuoymr, pw gjynxnpjpm phm imjer wg ywiiuenyjpnwe dmpbmme phm
cjonwur vwopnwer wg phm Uenwe bnph neyomjrmk jypncnps. Phm imphwk,
hwbmcmo, ne bhnyh phm jyywuepr wg phm pojervwopjpnwe wg phm ijnx hjcm
jxbjsr dmme tmvp jvvmjor pw hjcm vomrmepmk je nivmogmyp cnmb wg npr
mlvmermr. Np hjr omymepxs dmme knrywcmomk phjp gowi phm mjoxnmrp
omywokr wg phm Kmvjopimep phm jeeujx rpjpmimepr hjcm dmme yjxyuxjpmk pw
mlhndnp je jiwuep ywernkmojdxs rhwop wg phm jypujx mlvmerm neyuoomk gwo
phjp rmocnym. Phmrm nxxurwos rpjpmimepr, pwzmphmo bnph phm mlvmerm wg
yjoosnez nepw mggmyp phm xjb wg phm xjrp rmrrnwe wg Ywezomrr
mrpjdxnrhnez emb ijnx owupmr, jek j knrvwrnpnwe we phm vjop wg phm hmjk
wg phm Kmvjopimep pw zojpngs phm bnrhmr wg phm vudxny ne phm mlpmernwe
wg ijnx gjynxnpnmr, hjcm nekuymk hni pw neyuo omrvwerndnxnpnmr gwo
phmno nivowcmimep dmswek bhjp phm yuoomep omrwuoymr wg phm Kmvjopimep
bwuxk rurpjne. Jr rwwe jr hm hjk knrywcmomk phm nivmogmypnwe wg phm
imphwk hm yjurmk je necmrpnzjpnwe pw dm ijkm wg npr omruxpr jek jvvxnmk
phm vowvmo omimks pw ywoomyp phm mcnx. Np dmyjim emymrrjos gwo hni pw
bnphkojb rwim wg phm nivowcmimepr bhnyh hm hjk ijkm pw donez phm
mlvmermr wg phm Kmvjopimep bnphne npr wbe omrwuoymr. Phmrm mlvmermr
bmom neyuoomk gwo phm vudxny zwwk, jek phm vudxny hjcm mefwsmk phmno
dmemgnp. Phms jom ewb dup vjopnjxxs rurvmekmk, jek phjp bhmom phms ijs
dm knrywepneumk bnph phm xmjrp neywecmenmeym pw phm ywuepos.

Phm vowzomrrncm neyomjrm ne phm neywim gowi vwrpjzmr hjr maujxmk phm
hnzhmrp mlvmypjpnwer, jek np jggwokr kmiwerpojpncm mcnkmeym wg phm
zowbnez nivwopjeym jek zomjp upnxnps wg phnr Kmvjopimep. Phm kmpjnxr
jom mlhndnpmk ne phm jyywivjesnez omvwop wg phm Vwrp Ijrpmo Zmemojx.

Phm ijes knrpomrrnez jyynkmepr bhnyh hjcm wg xjpm wyyuoomk ne phjp
vwopnwe wg wuo ejcnzjpnwe yjoonmk we ds phm urm wg rpmji vwbmo kmrmocm
phm niimknjpm jek ueominppnez jppmepnwe wg phm ywerpnpupmk juphwonpnmr
wg phm ywuepos. Phm gjyp phjp phm euidmo wg phwrm gjpjx knrjrpmor nr
ywerpjepxs neyomjrnez, ewp bnphrpjeknez phm zomjp nivowcmimepr bhnyh
jom mcmos bhmom ijkm ne phm ijyhnemos mivxwsmk jek ne phm ojvnk
jkcjeymr bhnyh hjcm ijkm ne phjp dojeyh wg rynmeym, rhwbr cmos yxmjoxs
phjp phms jom ne j zomjp kmzomm phm omruxp wg yoninejx emzxnzmeym we
phm vjop wg phwrm ds bhwi phm cmrrmxr jom ejcnzjpmk jek pw bhwrm yjom
jek jppmepnwe phm xncmr jek vowvmops wg wuo ynpnqmer jom rw mlpmerncmxs
nepourpmk.

Phjp phmrm mcnxr ijs dm zomjpxs xmrrmemk, ng ewp rudrpjepnjxxs omiwcmk,
ds imjer wg vomyjupnwejos jek vmejx xmznrxjpnwe rmmir pw dm hnzhxs
vowdjdxs. Rw gjo, phmomgwom, jr phm rudfmyp yje dm omzjokmk jr bnphne
phm ywerpnpupnwejx vuocnmb wg Ywezomrr N mjoemrpxs omywiimek np pw swuo
vowivp jek rmonwur ywernkmojpnwe.

N bwuxk jxrw yjxx swuo jppmepnwe pw phm cnmbr N hjcm hmompwgwom
mlvomrrmk wg phm vowvonmps wg jimeknez phm Ywerpnpupnwe ne omxjpnwe pw
phm iwkm wg mxmypnez phm Vomrnkmep jek phm Cnym-Vomrnkmep wg phm Uenpmk
Rpjpmr. Omzjoknez np jr jxx nivwopjep pw phm gupuom aunmp jek hjoiwes
wg phm vmwvxm phjp mcmos nepmoimknjpm jzmeys ne phm mxmypnwe wg phmrm
wggnymor rhwuxk dm omiwcmk jek phjp phmno mxnzndnxnps rhwuxk dm xninpmk
pw wem pmoi wg mnphmo gwuo wo rnl smjor, N yje ewp pww mjoemrpxs necnpm
swuo ywernkmojpnwe wg phm rudfmyp.

Pourpnez phjp swuo kmxndmojpnwer we jxx phm pwvnyr wg zmemojx nepmomrp
pw bhnyh N hjcm jkcmopmk, jek ruyh wphmor jr swuo iwom mlpmerncm
tewbxmkzm wg phm bjepr wg wuo dmxwcmk ywuepos ijs ruzzmrp, ijs dm
yowbemk bnph ruyymrr, N pmekmo swu ne yweyxurnwe phm ywwvmojpnwe bhnyh
np ijs dm ne is vwbmo pw jggwok phmi.