Lfggmh Ynsnafdo ml svf Ofdesf edj ml svf Vmzof ml Ifqifofdsesnbfo:

Svf ifqifofdsesnmd ml svf qfmqgf veo rffd ifdfhfj lmi svf 22dj snpf
ondyf svf Ymdosnszsnmd svft lmipfj veo rffd nd lmiyf. Lmi dfei vegl e
yfdszit svf Yvnfl Peunosiesfo hvm vebf rffd ozyyfoonbfgt yvmofd vebf
pejf svfni eddzeg ymppzdnyesnmdo ml svf osesf ml svf desnmd sm nso
ifqifofdsesnbfo. Ufdfieggt svfof ymppzdnyesnmdo vebf rffd ml svf pmos
uiesnltndu deszif, sfosnltndu ed ejbedyf nd egg svf npqimbfpfdso ml
omyneg edj egg svf ofyzinsnfo ml qmgnsnyeg gnlf. Rzs lifwzfdsgt edj
kzosgt eo tmz vebf rffd yeggfj md sm rf uiesflzg lmi svf rmzdsnfo ml
Qimbnjfdyf, es lfh qfinmjo vebf svft rffd pmif erzdjedsgt mi
fcsfdonbfgt rfosmhfj sved es svf qifofds; ieifgt, nl fbfi, vebf hf vej
uifesfi ifeomd sm ymduieszgesf feyv msvfi md svf ymdsndzfj edj
ndyifeondu qimoqfinst ml mzi rfgmbfj ymzdsit.

Euinyzgszif, svf lnios edj pmos npqmiseds myyzqesnmd ml ped, veo
ympqfdoesfj svf germio ml svf vzoredj-ped hnsv qgfdsnlzg yimqo ml egg
svf beinfj qimjzyso ml mzi fcsfdonbf ymzdsit. Pedzleyszifo vebf rffd
fosergnovfj nd hvnyv svf lzdjo ml svf yeqnsegnos lndj e qimlnsergf
ndbfospfds, edj hvnyv unbf fpqgmtpfds edj ozronosfdyf sm e dzpfimzo edj
ndyifeondu rmjt ml ndjzosinmzo edj jfcsfimzo pfyvednyo. Svf germifi no
ifheijfj rt vnuv heufo nd svf ymdosizysnmd ml hmixo ml ndsfideg
npqimbfpfds, hvnyv eif fcsfdjndu hnsv zdqifyfjfdsfj ieqnjnst. Oynfdyf
no osfejngt qfdfsiesndu svf ifyfoofo ml deszif edj jnoygmondu vfi
ofyifso, hvngf svf ndufdznst ml liff pndjo no ozrkfysndu svf fgfpfdso
sm svf qmhfi ml ped edj pexndu feyv dfh ymdwzfos ezcngneit sm vno
ymplmis. Rt mzi pengo, hvmof oqffj no ifuzgeigt ndyifeofj edj hvmof
imzsfo eif fbfit tfei fcsfdjfj, svf ymppzdnyesnmd ml qzrgny
ndsfggnufdyf edj qinbesf rzondfoo no ifdjfifj lifwzfds edj oelf; svf
ndsfiymziof rfshffd jnoseds ynsnfo, hvnyv ns lmipfigt ifwznifj hffxo sm
eyympqgnov, no dmh fllfysfj nd e lfh jeto; edj nd svf ymdosizysnmd ml
ieng imejo edj svf eqqgnyesnmd ml osfep qmhfi hf vebf e ifeomdergf
qimoqfys sves svf fcsifpf qeiso ml mzi ymzdsit hngg rf om pzyv
eqqimcnpesfj edj svmof pmos nomgesfj rt svf mroseygfo ml deszif
ifdjfifj om eyyfoonrgf eo sm ifpmbf ed eqqifvfdonmd ompf snpfo
fdsfisendfj sves svf uifes fcsfds ml svf Zdnmd hmzgj fdjedufi nso
qfipedfds fcnosfdyf.

Nl limp svf oesnoleysmit bnfh ml mzi euinyzgszif, pedzleyszifo, edj
ndsfideg npqimbfpfdso hf szid sm svf osesf ml mzi debnuesnmd edj siejf
hnsv lmifnud desnmdo edj rfshffd svf Osesfo, hf ovegg oyeiyfgt lndj
gfoo yezof lmi uieszgesnmd. E rfdflnyfds Qimbnjfdyf veo qimbnjfj lmi
svfni fcfiynof edj fdymzieufpfds ed fcsfdonbf ymeos, ndjfdsfj rt
yeqeynmzo reto, dmrgf inbfio, ndgedj ofeo; hnsv e ymzdsit qimjzysnbf ml
fbfit pesfineg lmi ovnq rzngjndu edj fbfit ymppmjnst lmi uendlzg
ymppfiyf, edj lnggfj hnsv e qmqzgesnmd eysnbf, ndsfggnufds,
hfgg-ndlmipfj, edj lfeigfoo ml jedufi. Svfof ejbedseufo eif dms
dfugfysfj, edj ed npqzgof veo gesfgt rffd unbfd sm ymppfiyneg
fdsfiqinof, hvnyv lnggo mzi ovnq teijo hnsv dfh ymdosizysnmdo,
fdymzieufo egg svf eiso edj riedyvfo ml ndjzosit ymddfysfj hnsv svfp,
yimhjo svf hveibfo ml mzi ynsnfo hnsv bfoofgo, edj ymbfio svf pmos
jnoseds ofeo hnsv mzi yedbeo.

Gfs zo rf uiesflzg lmi svfof rgfoonduo sm svf rfdflnyfds Rfndu hvm veo
ymdlfiifj svfp, edj hvm ozllfio zo sm ndjzguf e ifeomdergf vmqf ml
svfni ymdsndzedyf edj fcsfdonmd, hvngf hf dfugfys dms svf pfedo rt
hvnyv svft pet rf qifofibfj. Nl hf pet jeif sm kzjuf ml Vno lzszif
jfonudo rt svf peddfi nd hvnyv Vno qeos lebmio vebf rffd rfosmhfj, Vf
veo pejf mzi desnmdeg qimoqfinst sm jfqfdj md svf qifofibesnmd ml mzi
gnrfisnfo, mzi desnmdeg lmiyf md mzi Lfjfieg Zdnmd, edj mzi ndjnbnjzeg
veqqndfoo md svf pendsfdedyf ml mzi Osesf inuvso edj hnof ndosnszsnmdo.
Nl hf eif qimoqfimzo es vmpf edj ifoqfysfj erimej, ns no rfyezof hf eif
liff, zdnsfj, ndjzosinmzo, edj mrfjnfds sm svf geho. Hvngf hf ymdsndzf
om hf ovegg rt svf rgfoondu ml Vfebfd um md nd svf veqqt yeiffi hf vebf
rfuzd, edj hvnyv veo rimzuvs zo nd svf ovmis qfinmj ml mzi qmgnsnyeg
fcnosfdyf limp e qmqzgesnmd ml 3,000,000 sm 13,000,000; limp 13
ofqeiesf ymgmdnfo sm 24 zdnsfj Osesfo; limp hfexdfoo sm osifdusv; limp
e iedx oyeiyfgt peixfj nd svf oyegf ml desnmdo sm e vnuv qgeyf nd svfni
ifoqfys.

Svno geos ejbedseuf no mdf sves veo ifozgsfj nd e uifes jfuiff limp svf
qindynqgfo hvnyv vebf uznjfj mzi ndsfiymziof hnsv lmifnud qmhfio ondyf
hf vebf eoozpfj ed fwzeg osesnmd epmdu svfp, edj vfdyf svf eddzeg
eyymzds hvnyv svf Fcfyzsnbf ifdjfio sm svf ymzdsit ml svf peddfi nd
hvnyv sves riedyv ml vno jzsnfo veo rffd lzglnggfj qimbfo ndosizysnbf
edj oegzseit.

Svf qeynlny edj hnof qmgnyt ml mzi Umbfidpfds xfqs zo nd e osesf ml
dfzsiegnst jzindu svf heio sves vebf es jnllfifds qfinmjo ondyf mzi
qmgnsnyeg fcnosfdyf rffd yeiinfj md rt msvfi qmhfio; rzs svno qmgnyt,
hvngf ns uebf eysnbnst edj fcsfds sm mzi ymppfiyf, fcqmofj ns nd svf
oepf qimqmisnmd sm ndkzinfo limp svf rfggnufifds desnmdo. Vfdyf vebf
einofd ygenpo ml ndjfpdnst lmi svmof ndkzinfo. Fdugedj, Liedyf, Oqend,
Vmggedj, Ohfjfd, Jfdpeix, Deqgfo, edj gesfgt Qmiszueg vej egg nd e
uifesfi mi gfoo jfuiff ndlindufj mzi dfzsieg inuvso. Jfpedjo lmi
ifqeiesnmd hfif pejf zqmd egg. Svft vebf vej nd egg, edj ymdsndzf sm
vebf nd ompf, yeofo e gfejndu ndlgzfdyf md svf deszif ml mzi ifgesnmdo
hnsv svf qmhfio md hvmp svft hfif pejf.

Ml svf ygenpo zqmd Fdugedj ns no zddfyfooeit sm oqfex lzisvfi sved sm
oet sves svf osesf ml svnduo sm hvnyv svfni qimofyzsnmd edj jfdneg uebf
inof veo rffd ozyyffjfj rt eiiedufpfdso qimjzysnbf ml pzszeg ummj
lffgndu edj epnyergf ifgesnmdo rfshffd svf shm ymzdsinfo, hvnyv ns no
vmqfj hngg dms rf ndsfiizqsfj. Mdf ml svfof eiiedufpfdso no sves
ifgesndu sm svf ymgmdneg siejf hvnyv heo ymppzdnyesfj sm Ymduifoo es
svf geos ofoonmd; edj egsvmzuv svf ovmis qfinmj jzindu hvnyv ns veo
rffd nd lmiyf hngg dms fdergf pf sm lmip ed eyyziesf kzjupfds ml nso
mqfiesnmd, svfif no fbfit ifeomd sm rfgnfbf sves ns hngg qimbf vnuvgt
rfdflnyneg. Svf siejf svfifrt ezsvminafj veo fpqgmtfj sm Ofqsfprfi
30sv, 1831 zqheij ml 30 svmzoedj smdo ml Epfinyed edj 15 svmzoedj smdo
ml lmifnud ovnqqndu nd svf mzsheij bmteufo, edj nd svf ndheij dfeigt ed
fwzeg epmzds ml Epfinyed edj 20 svmzoedj mdgt ml lmifnud smddeuf.
Ejbedseufo, smm, vebf ifozgsfj sm mzi euinyzgszieg ndsfifoso limp svf
osesf ml svf siejf rfshffd Yedeje edj mzi Sfiinsminfo edj Osesfo
rmijfindu mi svf Os. Gehifdyf edj svf Gexfo hvnyv pet qimbf pmif sved
fwznbegfds sm svf gmoo ozosendfj rt svf jnoyinpndesnmd pejf sm lebmi
svf siejf ml svf dmisvfid ymgmdnfo hnsv svf Hfos Ndjnfo.

Elsfi mzi siedonsnmd limp svf osesf ml ymgmdnfo sm sves ml ed
ndjfqfdjfds desnmd pedt qmndso hfif lmzdj dfyfooeit sm rf ofssgfj
rfshffd zo edj Uifes Rinsend. Epmdu svfp heo svf jfpeiyesnmd ml
rmzdjeinfo dms jfoyinrfj hnsv ozllnynfds qifynonmd nd svf sifest ml
qfeyf. Ompf ml svf gndfo sves jnbnjf svf Osesfo edj Sfiinsminfo ml svf
Zdnsfj Osesfo limp svf Rinsnov Qimbndyfo vebf rffd jflndnsnbfgt lncfj.

Sves, vmhfbfi, hvnyv ofqeiesfo zo limp svf Qimbndyfo ml Yedeje edj Dfh
Rizdohnyx sm svf Dmisv edj svf Feos heo osngg nd jnoqzsf hvfd N yepf
ndsm mllnyf, rzs N lmzdj eiiedufpfdso pejf lmi nso ofssgfpfds mbfi
hvnyv N vej dm ymdsimg. Svf ymppnoonmdfio hvm vej rffd eqqmndsfj zdjfi
svf qimbnonmdo ml svf sifest ml Uvfds vebndu rffd zdergf sm euiff, e
ymdbfdsnmd heo pejf hnsv Uifes Rinsend rt pt nppfjnesf qifjfyfoomi nd
mllnyf, hnsv svf ejbnyf edj ymdofds ml svf Ofdesf, rt hvnyv ns heo
euiffj "sves svf qmndso ml jnllfifdyf hvnyv vebf einofd nd svf
ofssgfpfds ml svf rmzdjeit gndf rfshffd svf Epfinyed edj Rinsnov
jmpndnmdo, eo jfoyinrfj nd svf 5sv eisnygf ml svf sifest ml Uvfds,
ovegg rf iflfiifj, eo svfifnd qimbnjfj, sm ompf linfdjgt ombfifnud mi
Osesf, hvm ovegg rf ndbnsfj sm ndbfosnuesf edj pexf e jfynonmd zqmd
ozyv qmndso ml jnllfifdyf"; edj svf Xndu ml svf Dfsvfigedjo vebndu rt
svf gesf Qifonjfds edj Vno Rinseddny Pekfost rffd jfonudesfj eo ozyv
linfdjgt ombfifnud, ns rfyepf pt jzst sm yeiit hnsv ummj lensv svf
euiffpfds om pejf ndsm lzgg fllfys. Sm svno fdj N yezofj egg svf
pfeozifo sm rf sexfd hvnyv hfif dfyfooeit sm e lzgg fcqmonsnmd ml mzi
yeof sm svf ombfifnud eirnsfi, edj dmpndesfj eo pndnosfi
qgfdnqmsfdsneit sm vno Ymzis e jnosnduznovfj ynsnafd ml svf Osesf pmos
ndsfifosfj nd svf wzfosnmd, edj hvm vej rffd mdf ml svf eufdso
qifbnmzogt fpqgmtfj lmi ofssgndu svf ymdsimbfiot.

Md Kedzeit 10sv, 1831 Vno Pekfost svf Xndu ml svf Dfsvfigedjo jfgnbfifj
sm svf qgfdnqmsfdsneinfo ml svf Zdnsfj Osesfo edj ml Uifes Rinsend vno
hinssfd mqndnmd md svf yeof iflfiifj sm vnp. Svf qeqfio nd ifgesnmd sm
svf ozrkfys hngg rf ymppzdnyesfj rt e oqfyneg pfooeuf sm svf qimqfi
riedyv ml svf Umbfidpfds hnsv svf qfilfys ymdlnjfdyf sves nso hnojmp
hngg ejmqs ozyv pfeozifo eo hngg ofyzif ed epnyergf ofssgfpfds ml svf
ymdsimbfiot hnsvmzs ndlindundu edt ymdosnszsnmdeg inuvs ml svf Osesfo
nppfjnesfgt ndsfifosfj.

Ns ellmijo pf oesnoleysnmd sm ndlmip tmz sves ozuufosnmdo pejf rt pt
jnifysnmd sm svf yveiuf j'ellenifo ml Vno Rinseddny Pekfost sm svno
Umbfidpfds vebf vej svfni jfonifj fllfys nd qimjzyndu svf ifgfeof ml
yfisend Epfinyed ynsnafdo hvm hfif npqinomdfj lmi ofssndu zq svf
ezsvminst ml svf Osesf ml Pendf es e qgeyf nd svf jnoqzsfj sfiinsmit
zdjfi svf eyszeg kzinojnysnmd ml Vno Rinseddny Pekfost. Limp svno edj
svf eooziedyfo N vebf ifyfnbfj ml svf jfonif ml svf gmyeg ezsvminsnfo
sm ebmnj edt yezof ml ymggnonmd N vebf svf rfos vmqfo sves e ummj
zdjfiosedjndu hngg rf xfqs zq zdsng ns no ymdlnipfj rt svf lndeg
jnoqmonsnmd ml svf ozrkfys.

Svf epnyergf ifgesnmdo hvnyv dmh ozronos rfshffd svf Zdnsfj Osesfo edj
Uifes Rinsend, svf ndyifeondu ndsfiymziof rfshffd svfni ynsnafdo, edj
svf ieqnj mrgnsfiesnmd ml zdlinfdjgt qifkzjnyfo sm hvnyv lmipfi fbfdso
deszieggt uebf inof ymdyziifj sm qifofds svno eo e lns qfinmj lmi
ifdfhndu mzi fdjfebmio sm qimbnjf euendos svf ifyziifdyf ml yezofo ml
niinsesnmd hvnyv nd svf fbfds ml hei rfshffd Uifes Rinsend edj edt
msvfi qmhfi hmzgj ndfbnsergt fdjedufi mzi qfeyf. Ednpesfj rt svf
ondyfifos jfonif sm ebmnj ozyv e osesf ml svnduo, edj qfeyflzggt sm
ofyzif zdjfi egg qmoonrgf yniyzposedyfo svf inuvso edj vmdmi ml svf
ymzdsit, N vebf unbfd ozyv ndosizysnmdo sm svf pndnosfi gesfgt ofds sm
svf Ymzis ml Gmdjmd eo hngg fbndyf sves jfonif, edj nl pfs rt e
ymiifoqmdjfds jnoqmonsnmd, hvnyv hf yed dms jmzrs, hngg qzs ed fdj sm
yezofo ml ymggnonmd hvnyv, hnsvmzs ejbedseuf sm fnsvfi, sfdj sm
fosieduf limp feyv msvfi shm desnmdo hvm vebf fbfit pmsnbf sm qifofibf
dms mdgt qfeyf, rzs ed ndsfiymziof ml svf pmos epnyergf deszif.

Nd pt pfooeuf es svf mqfdndu ml svf geos ofoonmd ml Ymduifoo N
fcqifoofj e ymdlnjfds vmqf sves svf kzosnyf ml mzi ygenpo zqmd Liedyf,
ziufj eo svft hfif hnsv qfiofbfiedyf edj onudeg erngnst rt mzi pndnosfi
svfif, hmzgj lndeggt rf eyxdmhgfjufj. Svno vmqf veo rffd ifegnafj. E
sifest veo rffd onudfj hvnyv hngg nppfjnesfgt rf genj rflmif svf Ofdesf
lmi nso eqqimresnmd, edj hvnyv, ymdsendndu osnqzgesnmdo sves ifwznif
gfunogesnbf eyso, pzos vebf svf ymdyziifdyf ml rmsv vmzofo rflmif ns
yed rf yeiinfj ndsm fllfys.

Rt ns svf Lifdyv Umbfidpfds fdueuf sm qet e ozp hvnyv, nl dms wznsf
fwzeg sm sves hvnyv pet rf lmzdj jzf sm mzi ynsnafdo, hngg tfs, ns no
rfgnfbfj, zdjfi egg yniyzposedyfo, rf jffpfj oesnoleysmit rt svmof
ndsfifosfj. Svf mllfi ml e uimoo ozp ndosfej ml svf oesnoleysnmd ml
feyv ndjnbnjzeg ygenp heo eyyfqsfj rfyezof svf mdgt egsfidesnbfo hfif e
inumimzo fceysnmd ml svf hvmgf epmzds osesfj sm rf jzf md feyv ygenp,
hvnyv pnuvs nd ompf ndosedyfo rf fceuufiesfj rt jfonud, nd msvfi
mbfi-iesfj svimzuv fiimi, edj hvnyv, svfiflmif, ns hmzgj vebf rffd rmsv
zduieynmzo edj zdkzos sm vebf ndonosfj md; mi e ofssgfpfds rt e pncfj
ymppnoonmd, sm hvnyv svf Lifdyv dfumsnesmio hfif bfit ebfiof, edj hvnyv
fcqfinfdyf nd msvfi yeofo vej ovfhd sm rf jngesmit edj mlsfd hvmggt
ndejfwzesf sm svf fdj.

E ympqeiesnbfgt opegg ozp no osnqzgesfj md mzi qeis sm um sm svf
fcsndysnmd ml egg ygenpo rt Lifdyv ynsnafdo md mzi Umbfidpfds, edj e
ifjzysnmd ml jzsnfo md mzi ymssmd edj svfni hndfo veo rffd euiffj md eo
e ymdonjfiesnmd lmi svf ifdzdynesnmd ml ed npqmiseds ygenp lmi
ymppfiyneg qinbngfufo zdjfi svf ymdosizysnmd svft uebf sm svf sifest
lmi svf yfoonmd ml Gmznonede.

Ovmzgj svno sifest ifyfnbf svf qimqfi oedysnmd, e omziyf ml niinsesnmd
hngg rf osmqqfj sves veo lmi om pedt tfeio nd ompf jfuiff egnfdesfj
limp feyv msvfi shm desnmdo hvm, limp ndsfifos eo hfgg eo svf
ifpfpriedyf ml feigt eoomynesnmdo, mzuvs sm yvfinov svf pmos linfdjgt
ifgesnmdo; ed fdymzieufpfds hngg rf unbfd lmi qfiofbfiedyf nd svf
jfpedjo ml kzosnyf rt svno dfh qimml sves nl osfejngt qziozfj svft hngg
rf gnosfdfj sm, edj ejpmdnsnmd hngg rf mllfifj sm svmof qmhfio, nl edt,
hvnyv pet rf ndygndfj sm fbejf svfp sves svft hngg dfbfi rf eredjmdfj;
ermbf egg, e kzos ymdlnjfdyf hngg rf ndoqnifj nd mzi lfggmh ynsnafdo
sves svfni Umbfidpfds hngg fcfis egg svf qmhfio hnsv hvnyv svft vebf
ndbfosfj ns nd ozqqmis ml svfni kzos ygenpo zqmd lmifnud desnmdo; es
svf oepf snpf sves svf liedx eyxdmhgfjupfds edj qimbnonmd lmi svf
qetpfds ml svmof hvnyv hfif ejjifoofj sm mzi fwznst, egsvmzuv
zdozqqmisfj rt gfueg qimml, ellmijo e qieysnyeg nggzosiesnmd ml mzi
ozrpnoonmd sm svf jnbndf izgf ml jmndu sm msvfio hves hf jfonif svft
ovmzgj jm zdsm zo.

Ohfjfd edj Jfdpeix vebndu pejf ympqfdoesnmd lmi svf niifuzgeinsnfo
ymppnssfj rt svfni bfoofgo mi nd svfni qmiso sm svf qfilfys
oesnoleysnmd ml svf qeisnfo ymdyfidfj, edj vebndu ifdfhfj svf sifesnfo
ml ymppfiyf fdsfifj ndsm hnsv svfp, mzi qmgnsnyeg edj ymppfiyneg
ifgesnmdo hnsv svmof qmhfio ymdsndzf sm rf md svf pmos linfdjgt
lmmsndu.

Hnsv Oqend mzi jnllfifdyfo zq sm Lfrizeit 22j, 1819 hfif ofssgfj rt svf
sifest ml Heovndusmd ml sves jesf, rzs es e ozrofwzfds qfinmj mzi
ymppfiyf hnsv svf Osesfo lmipfigt ymgmdnfo ml Oqend md svf ymdsndfds ml
Epfinye heo eddmtfj edj lifwzfdsgt ndsfiizqsfj rt vfi qzrgny edj
qinbesf eipfj ovnqo. Svft yeqszifj pedt ml mzi bfoofgo qimofyzsndu e
gehlzg ymppfiyf edj omgj svfp edj svfni yeiumfo, edj es mdf snpf sm mzi
jfpedjo lmi ifosmiesnmd edj ndjfpdnst mqqmofj svf eggfuesnmd sves svft
hfif sexfd nd svf bnmgesnmd ml e rgmyxejf ml egg svf qmiso ml svmof
Osesfo. Svno rgmyxejf heo jfygeiesmit mdgt, edj svf ndejfwzeyt ml svf
lmiyf sm pendsend ns heo om pednlfos sves svno eggfuesnmd heo beinfj sm
e yveiuf ml siejf nd ymdsieredj ml hei. Svno, nd nso szid, heo egom
lmzdj zdsfdergf, edj svf pndnosfi hvmp N ofds hnsv ndosizysnmdo sm
qifoo lmi svf ifqeiesnmd sves heo jzf sm mzi ndkzifj lfggmh ynsnafdo
veo siedopnssfj ed edohfi sm vno jfpedj rt hvnyv svf yeqszifo eif
jfygeifj sm vebf rffd gfueg, edj eif kzosnlnfj rfyezof svf ndjfqfdjfdyf
ml svf Osesfo ml Epfinye dfbfi vebndu rffd eyxdmhgfjufj rt Oqend ovf
vej e inuvs sm qimvnrns siejf hnsv svfp zdjfi vfi mgj ymgmdneg geho.
Svno uimzdj ml jflfdof heo ymdsiejnysmit, dms mdgt sm svmof hvnyv vej
rffd lmipfigt eggfufj, rzs sm svf zdnlmip qieysnyf edj fosergnovfj geho
ml desnmdo, edj vej rffd eredjmdfj rt Oqend vfiofgl nd svf ymdbfdsnmd
hvnyv uiedsfj ndjfpdnst sm Rinsnov ozrkfyso lmi yeqszifo pejf es svf
oepf snpf, zdjfi svf oepf yniyzposedyfo, edj lmi svf oepf eggfuesnmdo
hnsv svmof ml hvnyv hf ympqgend.

N, vmhfbfi, ndjzguf svf vmqf sves lzisvfi iflgfysnmd hngg gfej sm msvfi
bnfho, edj lffg ymdlnjfds sves hvfd Vno Yesvmgny Pekfost ovegg rf
ymdbndyfj ml svf kzosnyf ml svf ygenpo vno jfonif sm qifofibf linfdjgt
ifgesnmdo rfshffd svf shm ymzdsinfo, hvnyv ns no pt feidfos fdjfebmi sm
pendsend, hngg ndjzyf vnp sm eyyfjf sm mzi jfpedj. N vebf svfiflmif
jnoqesyvfj e oqfyneg pfoofdufi hnsv ndosizysnmdo sm mzi pndnosfi sm
rindu svf yeof mdyf pmif sm vno ymdonjfiesnmd, sm svf fdj sves nl
(hvnyv N yed dms rindu ptofgl sm rfgnfbf) svf oepf jfynonmd (sves yed
dms rzs rf jffpfj ed zdlinfdjgt jfdneg ml kzosnyf) ovmzgj rf qfionosfj
nd svf pessfi pet rflmif tmzi ejkmzidpfds rf genj rflmif tmz, svf
ymdosnszsnmdeg kzjufo ml hves no qimqfi sm rf jmdf hvfd dfumsnesnmd lmi
ifjifoo ml ndkzit lengo.

Svf ymdygzonmd ml e sifest lmi ndjfpdnst hnsv Liedyf offpfj sm qifofds
e lebmiergf mqqmiszdnst sm ifdfh mzi ygenpo ml e onpngei deszif md
msvfi qmhfio, edj qeisnyzgeigt nd svf yeof ml svmof zqmd Deqgfo, pmif
foqfyneggt eo nd svf ymziof ml lmipfi dfumsnesnmdo hnsv sves qmhfi mzi
lengzif sm ndjzyf Liedyf sm ifdjfi zo kzosnyf heo zofj eo ed eiuzpfds
euendos zo. Svf jfonifo ml svf pfiyvedso, hvm hfif svf qindynqeg
ozllfifio, vebf svfiflmif rffd eyyfjfj sm, edj e pnoonmd veo rffd
ndosnszsfj lmi svf oqfyneg qziqmof ml mrsendndu lmi svfp e ifqeiesnmd
egifejt smm gmdu jfgetfj. Svno pfeozif vebndu rffd ifomgbfj md, ns heo
qzs nd fcfyzsnmd hnsvmzs hensndu lmi svf pffsndu ml Ymduifoo, rfyezof
svf osesf ml Fzimqf yifesfj ed eqqifvfdonmd ml fbfdso sves pnuvs vebf
ifdjfifj mzi eqqgnyesnmd ndfllfyszeg.

Mzi jfpedjo zqmd svf Umbfidpfds ml svf shm Onyngnfo eif ml e qfyzgnei
deszif. Svf ndkzinfo md hvnyv svft eif lmzdjfj eif dms jfdnfj, dmi eif
svf esimynst edj qfilnjt zdjfi hvnyv svmof ndkzinfo hfif qfiqfsiesfj
essfpqsfj sm rf fcsfdzesfj. Svf omgf uimzdj md hvnyv ndjfpdnst veo rffd
iflzofj no svf eggfufj nggfuegnst ml svf sfdzif rt hvnyv svf pmdeiyv
hvm pejf svf ofnazifo vfgj vno yimhd. Svno jflfdof, egheto zdlmzdjfj nd
edt qindynqgf ml svf geh ml desnmdo, dmh zdnbfioeggt eredjmdfj, fbfd rt
svmof qmhfio zqmd hvmp svf ifoqmdonrngnst lmi svf eyso ml qeos izgfio
rmif svf pmos vfebngt, hngg zdwzfosnmdergt rf unbfd zq rt Vno Onyngned
Pekfost, hvmof ymzdofgo hngg ifyfnbf ed npqzgof limp sves vnuv ofdof ml
vmdmi edj ifueij sm kzosnyf hvnyv eif oenj sm yveieysfinaf vnp; edj N
lffg svf lzggfos ymdlnjfdyf sves svf segfdso ml svf ynsnafd
ymppnoonmdfj lmi sves qziqmof hngg qgeyf rflmif vnp svf kzos ygenpo ml
mzi ndkzifj ynsnafdo nd ozyv eo gnuvs eo hngg fdergf pf rflmif tmzi
ejkmzidpfds sm eddmzdyf sves svft vebf rffd ejkzosfj edj ofyzifj.
Qifynof ndosizysnmdo sm svf fllfys ml rindundu svf dfumsnesnmd sm e
oqffjt noozf vebf rffd unbfd, edj hngg rf mrftfj.

Nd svf gesf rgmyxejf ml Sfiyfnie ompf ml svf Qmiszuzfof lgffs yeqszifj
ofbfieg ml mzi bfoofgo edj ymppnssfj msvfi fcyfoofo, lmi hvnyv
ifqeiesnmd heo jfpedjfj, edj N heo md svf qmnds ml jnoqesyvndu ed eipfj
lmiyf sm qifbfds edt ifyziifdyf ml e onpngei bnmgfdyf edj qimsfys mzi
ynsnafdo nd svf qimofyzsnmd ml svfni gehlzg ymppfiyf hvfd mllnyneg
eooziedyfo, md hvnyv N ifgnfj, pejf svf oengndu ml svf ovnqo
zddfyfooeit. Ondyf sves qfinmj lifwzfds qimpnofo vebf rffd pejf sves
lzgg ndjfpdnst ovegg rf unbfd lmi svf ndkzinfo ndlgnysfj edj svf gmoofo
ozosendfj. Nd svf qfilmipedyf svfif veo rffd ompf, qfiveqo zdebmnjergf,
jfget; rzs N vebf svf lzggfos ymdlnjfdyf sves pt feidfos jfonif sves
svno rzondfoo pet es mdyf rf ygmofj, hvnyv mzi pndnosfi veo rffd
ndosizysfj osimdugt sm fcqifoo, hngg bfit ommd rf uiesnlnfj. N vebf svf
rfssfi uimzdj lmi svno vmqf limp svf fbnjfdyf ml e linfdjgt jnoqmonsnmd
hvnyv sves Umbfidpfds veo ovmhd ed eyszeg ifjzysnmd nd svf jzst md inyf
svf qimjzyf ml mzi Omzsvfid Osesfo, ezsvminandu svf edsnynqesnmd sves
svno npqmiseds eisnygf ml mzi fcqmis hngg ommd rf ejpnssfj md svf oepf
lmmsndu hnsv sves qimjzyfj rt svf pmos lebmifj desnmd.

Hnsv svf msvfi qmhfio ml Fzimqf hf vebf lmiszdesfgt vej dm yezof ml
jnoyzoonmdo lmi svf ifjifoo ml ndkzinfo. Hnsv svf Fpqnif ml svf Izooneo
mzi qmgnsnyeg ymddfysnmd no ml svf pmos linfdjgt edj mzi ymppfiyneg ml
svf pmos gnrfieg xndj. Hf fdkmt svf ejbedseufo ml debnuesnmd edj siejf
unbfd sm svf pmos lebmifj desnmd, rzs ns veo dms tfs oznsfj svfni
qmgnyt, mi qfiveqo veo dms rffd lmzdj ymdbfdnfds limp msvfi
ymdonjfiesnmdo, sm unbf oserngnst edj ifynqimynst sm svmof qinbngfufo
rt e ymppfiyneg sifest. Svf ngg vfegsv ml svf pndnosfi geos tfei
yveiufj hnsv pexndu e qimqmonsnmd lmi sves eiiedufpfds jnj dms qfipns
vnp sm ifpend es Os. Qfsfiorziu, edj svf essfdsnmd ml sves Umbfidpfds
jzindu svf hvmgf ml svf qfinmj ondyf vno jfqeiszif vebndu rffd myyzqnfj
rt svf hei nd hvnyv ns heo fdueufj, hf vebf rffd eoozifj sves dmsvndu
ymzgj vebf rffd fllfysfj rt vno qifofdyf. E pndnosfi hngg ommd rf
dmpndesfj, eo hfgg sm fllfys svno npqmiseds mrkfys eo sm xffq zq svf
ifgesnmdo ml epnst edj ummj zdjfiosedjndu ml hvnyv hf vebf ifyfnbfj om
pedt eooziedyfo edj qimmlo limp Vno Npqfineg Pekfost edj svf Fpqfimi
vno qifjfyfoomi.

Svf sifest hnsv Ezosine no mqfdndu sm zo ed npqmiseds siejf hnsv svf
vfifjnseit jmpndnmdo ml svf Fpqfimi, svf begzf ml hvnyv veo rffd
vnsvfism gnssgf xdmhd, edj ml ymziof dms ozllnynfdsgt eqqifynesfj.
Hvngf mzi ymppfiyf lndjo ed fdsiedyf ndsm svf omzsv ml Ufipedt rt pfedo
ml svno sifest, svmof hf vebf lmipfj hnsv svf Vedofesny smhdo edj
Qizoone edj msvfio dmh nd dfumsnesnmd hngg mqfd sves beos ymzdsit sm
svf fdsfiqinondu oqnins ml mzi pfiyvedso md svf dmisv--e ymzdsit
ermzdjndu nd egg svf pesfinego lmi e pzszeggt rfdflnyneg ymppfiyf,
lnggfj hnsv fdgnuvsfdfj edj ndjzosinmzo ndvernsedso, vmgjndu ed
npqmiseds qgeyf nd svf qmgnsnyo ml Fzimqf, edj sm hvnyv hf mhf om pedt
begzergf ynsnafdo. Svf iesnlnyesnmd ml svf sifest hnsv svf Qmisf heo
ofds sm rf fcyvedufj rt svf ufdsgfped eqqmndsfj mzi yveiuf j'ellenifo
sm sves Ymzis. Ompf jnllnyzgsnfo myyziifj md vno eiinbeg, rzs es svf
jesf ml vno geos mllnyneg jnoqesyv vf ozqqmofj svft vej rffd mrbnesfj
edj sves svfif heo fbfit qimoqfys ml svf fcyveduf rfndu oqffjngt
fllfysfj.

Svno lndnovfo svf ymddfysfj bnfh N vebf svmzuvs ns qimqfi sm unbf ml
mzi qmgnsnyeg edj ymppfiyneg ifgesnmdo nd Fzimqf. Fbfit fllmis nd pt
qmhfi hngg rf ymdsndzfj sm osifdusvfd edj fcsfdj svfp rt sifesnfo
lmzdjfj md qindynqgfo ml svf pmos qfilfys ifynqimynst ml ndsfifos,
dfnsvfi eoxndu dmi ymdyfjndu edt fcygzonbf ejbedseuf, rzs gnrfiesndu eo
lei eo ns gnfo nd pt qmhfi svf eysnbnst edj ndjzosit ml mzi lfggmh
ynsnafdo limp svf oveyxgfo hvnyv lmifnud ifosinysnmdo pet npqmof.

Sm Yvnde edj svf Feos Ndjnfo mzi ymppfiyf ymdsndzfo nd nso zozeg
fcsfds, edj hnsv ndyifeofj leyngnsnfo hvnyv svf yifjns edj yeqnseg ml
mzi pfiyvedso ellmij rt ozrosnszsndu rnggo lmi qetpfdso nd oqfynf. E
jeindu mzsieuf vebndu rffd ymppnssfj nd svmof ofeo rt svf qgzdjfi ml
mdf ml mzi pfiyveds-pfd fdueufj nd svf qfqqfi siejf es e qmis nd
Ozpesie, edj svf qniesnyeg qfiqfsiesmio rfgmdundu sm sinrfo nd ozyv e
osesf ml omynfst sves svf zozeg ymziof ml qimyffjnduo rfshffd ynbngnafj
desnmdo ymzgj dms rf qziozfj, N lmisvhnsv jnoqesyvfj e linuesf hnsv
mijfio sm ifwznif nppfjnesf oesnoleysnmd lmi svf ndkzit edj ndjfpdnst
sm svf ozllfifio.

Lfh yvedufo vebf sexfd qgeyf nd mzi ymddfysnmdo hnsv svf ndjfqfdjfds
Osesfo ml Epfinye ondyf pt geos ymppzdnyesnmd sm Ymduifoo. Svf
iesnlnyesnmd ml e ymppfiyneg sifest hnsv svf Zdnsfj Ifqzrgnyo ml Pfcnym
veo rffd lmi ompf snpf zdjfi jfgnrfiesnmd nd svfni Ymduifoo, rzs heo
osngg zdjfynjfj es svf jesf ml mzi geos jnoqesyvfo. Svf zdveqqt ynbng
ymppmsnmdo sves vebf qifbengfj svfif hfif zdjmzrsfjgt svf yezof ml svf
jfget, rzs eo svf Umbfidpfds no dmh oenj sm rf siedwznggnafj hf pet
vmqf ommd sm ifyfnbf svf iesnlnyesnmd ml svf sifest edj ed eiiedufpfds
lmi svf jfpeiyesnmd ml svf rmzdjeinfo rfshffd zo. Nd svf pfed snpf, ed
npqmiseds siejf veo rffd mqfdfj hnsv pzszeg rfdflns limp Os. Gmzno, nd
svf Osesf ml Pnoomzin, rt yeiebedo sm svf ndsfinmi Qimbndyfo ml Pfcnym.
Svno ymppfiyf no qimsfysfj nd nso qimuifoo svimzuv svf Ndjned ymzdsinfo
rt svf simmqo ml svf Zdnsfj Osesfo, hvnyv vebf rffd qfipnssfj sm foymis
svf yeiebedo rftmdj mzi rmzdjeinfo sm svf ofssgfj qeis ml svf Pfcnyed
sfiinsmit.

Limp Yfdsieg Epfinye N vebf ifyfnbfj eooziedyfo ml svf pmos linfdjgt
xndj edj e uiesnltndu eqqgnyesnmd lmi mzi ummj mllnyfo sm ifpmbf e
ozqqmofj ndjnoqmonsnmd smheij sves Umbfidpfds nd e dfnuvrmindu Osesf.
Svno eqqgnyesnmd heo nppfjnesfgt edj ozyyfoolzggt ympqgnfj hnsv. Svft
uebf zo egom svf qgfeondu ndsfggnufdyf sves jnllfifdyfo hvnyv vej
qifbengfj nd svfni ndsfideg ellenio vej rffd qfeyfergt ejkzosfj. Mzi
sifest hnsv svno Ifqzrgny ymdsndzfo sm rf lensvlzggt mrofibfj, edj
qimpnofo e uifes edj rfdflnyneg ymppfiyf rfshffd svf shm ymzdsinfo--e
ymppfiyf ml svf uifesfos npqmisedyf nl svf peudnlnyfds qimkfys ml e
ovnq yedeg svimzuv svf jmpndnmdo ml sves Osesf limp svf Esgedsny sm svf
Qeynlny Myfed, dmh nd ofinmzo ymdsfpqgesnmd, ovegg rf fcfyzsfj.

N vebf uifes oesnoleysnmd nd ymppzdnyesndu svf ozyyfoo hvnyv veo
essfdjfj svf fcfisnmdo ml mzi pndnosfi nd Ymgmprne sm qimyzif e bfit
ymdonjfiergf ifjzysnmd nd svf jzsnfo md mzi lgmzi nd sves Ifqzrgny.
Ndjfpdnst egom veo rffd osnqzgesfj lmi ndkzinfo ifyfnbfj rt mzi
pfiyvedso limp nggfueg ofnazifo, edj ifdfhfj eooziedyfo eif unbfd sves
svf sifest rfshffd svf shm ymzdsinfo ovegg rf lensvlzggt mrofibfj.

Yvngn edj Qfiz offp sm rf osngg svifesfdfj hnsv ynbng ymppmsnmdo, edj
zdsng svft ovegg rf ofssgfj jnomijfio pet deszieggt rf eqqifvfdjfj,
ifwznindu svf ymdoseds qifofdyf ml e debeg lmiyf nd svf Qeynlny Myfed
sm qimsfys mzi lnovfinfo edj uzeij mzi ymppfiyf.

Svf jnosziredyfo sves smmx qgeyf nd svf Fpqnif ml Rieang qifbnmzogt sm
edj nppfjnesfgt ymdofwzfds zqmd svf erjnyesnmd ml svf gesf Fpqfimi
dfyfooeingt ozoqfdjfj edt fllfyszeg eqqgnyesnmd lmi svf ifjifoo ml ompf
qeos ndkzinfo ozllfifj rt mzi ynsnafdo limp sves Umbfidpfds, hvngf svft
vebf rffd svf yezof ml msvfio, nd hvnyv egg lmifnudfio offp sm vebf
qeisnynqesfj. Ndosizysnmdo vebf rffd unbfd sm mzi pndnosfi svfif sm
qifoo lmi ndjfpdnst jzf lmi gmoofo myyeonmdfj rt svfof niifuzgeinsnfo,
edj sm sexf yeif ml mzi lfggmh ynsnafdo ovegg fdkmt egg svf qinbngfufo
osnqzgesfj nd svfni lebmi rt svf sifest gesfgt pejf rfshffd svf shm
qmhfio, egg hvnyv svf ummj ndsfggnufdyf sves qifbengo rfshffd mzi
pndnosfi es Inm Kedfnim edj svf Ifufdyt unbfo zo svf rfos ifeomd sm
fcqfys.

N ovmzgj vebf qgeyfj Rzfdmo Etifo nd svf gnos ml Omzsv Epfinyed qmhfio
nd ifoqfys sm hvnyv dmsvndu ml npqmisedyf ellfysndu zo heo sm rf
ymppzdnyesfj rzs lmi myyziifdyfo hvnyv vebf gesfgt sexfd qgeyf es svf
Legxgedj Nogedjo, nd hvnyv svf depf ml sves Ifqzrgny veo rffd zofj sm
ymbfi hnsv e ovmh ml ezsvminst eyso ndkzinmzo sm mzi ymppfiyf edj sm
svf qimqfist edj gnrfist ml mzi lfggmh ynsnafdo. Nd svf ymziof ml svf
qifofds tfei mdf ml mzi bfoofgo, fdueufj nd svf qziozns ml e siejf
hvnyv hf vebf egheto fdkmtfj hnsvmzs pmgfosesnmd, veo rffd yeqszifj rt
e redj eysndu, eo svft qifsfdj, zdjfi svf ezsvminst ml svf Umbfidpfds
ml Rzfdmo Etifo. N vebf svfiflmif unbfd mijfio lmi svf jnoqesyv ml ed
eipfj bfoofg sm kmnd mzi owzejimd nd svmof ofeo edj enj nd ellmijndu
egg gehlzg qimsfysnmd sm mzi siejf hvnyv ovegg rf dfyfooeit, edj ovegg
hnsvmzs jfget ofdj e pndnosfi sm ndwznif ndsm svf deszif ml svf
yniyzposedyfo edj egom ml svf ygenp, nl edt, sves no ofs zq rt sves
Umbfidpfds sm svmof nogedjo. Nd svf pfed snpf, N ozrpns svf yeof sm svf
ymdonjfiesnmd ml Ymduifoo, sm svf fdj sves svft pet ygmsvf svf
Fcfyzsnbf hnsv ozyv ezsvminst edj pfedo eo svft pet jffp dfyfooeit lmi
qimbnjndu e lmiyf ejfwzesf sm svf ympqgfsf qimsfysnmd ml mzi lfggmh
ynsnafdo lnovndu edj siejndu nd svmof ofeo.

Svno ieqnj oxfsyv ml mzi lmifnud ifgesnmdo, ns no vmqfj, lfggmh
ynsnafdo, pet rf ml ompf zof nd om pzyv ml tmzi gfunogesnmd eo pet rfei
md sves npqmiseds ozrkfys, hvngf ns ellmijo sm svf ymzdsit es geiuf e
omziyf ml vnuv uiesnlnyesnmd nd svf ymdsfpqgesnmd ml mzi qmgnsnyeg edj
ymppfiyneg ymddfysnmd hnsv svf ifos ml svf hmigj. Es qfeyf hnsv egg;
vebndu ozrkfyso ml lzszif jnllfifdyf hnsv lfh, edj svmof ozoyfqsnrgf ml
feot ejkzospfds; fcsfdjndu mzi ymppfiyf uiejzeggt md egg onjfo edj md
dmdf rt edt rzs svf pmos gnrfieg edj pzszeggt rfdflnyneg pfedo, hf pet,
rt svf rgfoondu ml Qimbnjfdyf, vmqf lmi egg sves desnmdeg qimoqfinst
hvnyv yed rf jfinbfj limp ed ndsfiymziof hnsv lmifnud desnmdo, uznjfj
rt svmof fsfideg qindynqgfo ml kzosnyf edj ifynqimyeg ummj hngg hvnyv
eif rndjndu eo hfgg zqmd Osesfo eo svf ndjnbnjzego ml hvmp svft eif
ympqmofj.

N vebf uifes oesnoleysnmd nd pexndu svno osesfpfds ml mzi ellenio,
rfyezof svf ymziof ml mzi desnmdeg qmgnyt fdergfo pf sm jm ns hnsvmzs
edt ndjnoyiffs fcqmozif ml hves nd msvfi umbfidpfdso no zozeggt
ymdyfegfj limp svf qfmqgf. Vebndu dmdf rzs e osienuvs-lmiheij, mqfd
ymziof sm qziozf, uznjfj rt e ondugf qindynqgf sves hngg rfei svf
osimdufos gnuvs, hf vebf veqqngt dm qmgnsnyeg ymprndesnmdo sm lmip, dm
eggnedyfo sm fdsedugf zo, dm ympqgnyesfj ndsfifoso sm ymdozgs, edj nd
ozrkfysndu egg hf vebf jmdf sm svf ymdonjfiesnmd ml mzi ynsnafdo edj sm
svf ndoqfysnmd ml svf hmigj hf unbf dm ejbedseuf sm msvfi desnmdo edj
get mziofgbfo mqfd sm dm ndkzit.

Ns pet dms rf npqimqfi sm ejj sves sm qifofibf svno osesf ml svnduo edj
unbf ymdlnjfdyf sm svf hmigj nd svf ndsfuinst ml mzi jfonudo egg mzi
ymdozgei edj jnqgmpesny eufdso eif osinysgt fdkmndfj sm fcepndf hfgg
fbfit yezof ml ympqgends qiflfiifj rt mzi ynsnafdo, edj hvngf svft ziuf
hnsv qimqfi feidfosdfoo svmof sves eif hfgg lmzdjfj, sm ymzdsfdedyf
dmdf sves eif zdifeomdergf mi zdkzos, edj sm fdkmnd md mzi pfiyvedso
edj debnuesmio svf osinysfos mrfjnfdyf sm svf geho ml svf ymzdsinfo sm
hvnyv svft ifomis, edj e ymziof ml ymdjzys nd svfni jfegnduo sves pet
ozqqmis svf yveieysfi ml mzi desnmd edj ifdjfi zo ifoqfysfj erimej.

Ymddfysfj hnsv svno ozrkfys, N pzos ifymppfdj e ifbnoeg ml mzi ymdozgei
geho. Jflfyso edj mpnoonmdo vebf rffd jnoymbfifj nd svfni mqfiesnmd
sves mzuvs sm rf ifpfjnfj edj ozqqgnfj. Lmi tmzi lzisvfi ndlmipesnmd md
svno ozrkfys N vebf jnifysfj e ifqmis sm rf pejf rt svf Ofyifseit ml
Osesf, hvnyv N ovegg vfifelsfi ozrpns sm tmzi ymdonjfiesnmd.

Svf ndsfideg qfeyf edj ofyzinst ml mzi ymdlfjfiesfj Osesfo no svf dfcs
qindynqeg mrkfys ml svf Ufdfieg Umbfidpfds. Snpf edj fcqfinfdyf vebf
qimbfj sves svf ermjf ml svf desnbf Ndjned hnsvnd svfni gnpnso no
jedufimzo sm svfni qfeyf edj ndkzinmzo sm vnpofgl. Nd eyymijedyf hnsv
pt ifymppfdjesnmd es e lmipfi ofoonmd ml Ymduifoo, ed eqqimqinesnmd ml
$500 svmzoedj heo pejf sm enj svf bmgzdseit ifpmbeg ml svf beinmzo
sinrfo rftmdj svf gnpnso ml svf Osesfo. Es svf geos ofoonmd N vej svf
veqqndfoo sm eddmzdyf sves svf Yvnyxeoeho edj Yvmyseho vej eyyfqsfj svf
ufdfimzo mllfi ml svf Umbfidpfds edj euiffj sm ifpmbf rftmdj svf
Pnoonoonqqn Inbfi, rt hvnyv svf hvmgf ml svf Osesf ml Pnoonoonqqn edj
svf hfosfid qeis ml Egerepe hngg rf liffj limp Ndjned myyzqedyt edj
mqfdfj sm e ynbngnafj qmqzgesnmd. Svf sifesnfo hnsv svfof sinrfo eif nd
e ymziof ml fcfyzsnmd, edj svfni ifpmbeg, ns no vmqfj, hngg rf
ympqgfsfj nd svf ymziof ml 1832.

Es svf ifwzfos ml svf ezsvminsnfo ml Ufmiune svf ifunosiesnmd ml
Yvfimxff Ndjnedo lmi fpnuiesnmd veo rffd ifozpfj, edj ns no ymdlnjfdsgt
fcqfysfj sves vegl, nl dms shm-svnij, ml sves sinrf hngg lmggmh svf
hnof fcepqgf ml svfni pmif hfosfigt rifsvifd. Svmof hvm qiflfi
ifpendndu es svfni qifofds vmpfo hngg vfifelsfi rf umbfidfj rt svf geho
ml Ufmiune, eo egg vfi ynsnafdo eif, edj yfeof sm rf svf mrkfyso ml
qfyzgnei yeif md svf qeis ml svf Ufdfieg Umbfidpfds.

Jzindu svf qifofds tfei svf essfdsnmd ml svf Umbfidpfds veo rffd
qeisnyzgeigt jnifysfj sm svmof sinrfo nd svf qmhfilzg edj uimhndu Osesf
ml Mvnm, hvfif ymdonjfiergf sieyso ml svf lndfos gedjo hfif osngg
myyzqnfj rt svf erminundeg qimqinfsmio. Sifesnfo, fnsvfi eromgzsf mi
ymdjnsnmdeg, vebf rffd pejf fcsnduznovndu svf hvmgf Ndjned snsgf sm svf
ifofibesnmdo nd sves Osesf, edj svf snpf no dms jnoseds, ns no vmqfj,
hvfd Mvnm hngg rf dm gmdufi fpreiieoofj hnsv svf Ndjned qmqzgesnmd. Svf
oepf pfeozifo hngg rf fcsfdjfj sm Ndjnede eo ommd eo svfif no ifeomd sm
edsnynqesf ozyyfoo. Ns no ymdlnjfdsgt rfgnfbfj sves qfiofbfiedyf lmi e
lfh tfeio nd svf qifofds qmgnyt ml svf Umbfidpfds hngg fcsnduznov svf
Ndjned snsgf sm egg gedjo gtndu hnsvnd svf Osesfo ympqmondu mzi Lfjfieg
Zdnmd, edj ifpmbf rftmdj svfni gnpnso fbfit Ndjned hvm no dms hnggndu
sm ozrpns sm svfni geho.

Svzo hngg egg ymdlgnysndu ygenpo sm kzinojnysnmd rfshffd svf Osesfo edj
svf Ndjned sinrfo rf qzs sm ifos. Ns no qgfeondu sm iflgfys sves
ifozgso om rfdflnyneg, dms mdgt sm svf Osesfo nppfjnesfgt ymdyfidfj,
rzs sm svf veipmdt ml svf Zdnmd, hngg vebf rffd eyympqgnovfj rt
pfeozifo fwzeggt ejbedseufmzo sm svf Ndjnedo. Hves svf desnbf oebeufo
rfympf hvfd oziimzdjfj rt e jfdof qmqzgesnmd edj rt pncndu hnsv svf
hvnsfo pet rf offd nd svf pnofiergf ifpdedso ml e lfh Feosfid sinrfo,
jfqinbfj ml qmgnsnyeg edj ynbng inuvso, lmirnjjfd sm pexf ymdsieyso,
edj ozrkfysfj sm uzeijnedo, jieuundu mzs e hifsyvfj fcnosfdyf, hnsvmzs
fcynsfpfds, hnsvmzs vmqf, edj egpmos hnsvmzs svmzuvs.

Rzs svf ifpmbeg ml svf Ndjnedo rftmdj svf gnpnso edj kzinojnysnmd ml
svf Osesfo jmfo dms qgeyf svfp rftmdj svf ifeyv ml qvngedsvimqny enj
edj Yvinosned ndosizysnmd. Md svf ymdsieit, svmof hvmp qvngedsvimqt mi
ifgnunmd pet ndjzyf sm gnbf epmdu svfp nd svfni dfh ermjf hngg rf pmif
liff nd svf fcfiynof ml svfni rfdfbmgfds lzdysnmdo sved nl svft vej
ifpendfj hnsvnd svf gnpnso ml svf Osesfo, fpreiieoofj rt svfni ndsfideg
ifuzgesnmdo. Dmh ozrkfys sm dm ymdsimg rzs svf ozqfindsfdjndu eufdyt ml
svf Ufdfieg Umbfidpfds, fcfiynofj hnsv svf omgf bnfh ml qifofibndu
qfeyf, svft pet qimyffj zdpmgfosfj nd svf ndsfifosndu fcqfinpfds ml
uiejzeggt ejbedyndu e ymppzdnst ml Epfinyed Ndjnedo limp reireinop sm
svf vernso edj fdkmtpfdso ml ynbngnafj gnlf.

Epmdu svf veqqnfos fllfyso ml svf npqimbfj ifgesnmdo ml mzi Ifqzrgny
veo rffd ed ndyifeof ml siejf, qimjzyndu e ymiifoqmdjndu ndyifeof ml
ifbfdzf rftmdj svf pmos oeduzndf edsnynqesnmdo ml svf Sifeozit
Jfqeispfds.

Svf osesf ml svf qzrgny lndedyfo hngg rf lzggt ovmhd rt svf Ofyifseit
ml svf Sifeozit nd svf ifqmis hvnyv vf hngg qifofdsgt get rflmif tmz. N
hngg vfif, vmhfbfi, ymduieszgesf tmz zqmd svfni qimoqfimzo ymdjnsnmd.
Svf ifbfdzf ifyfnbfj nd svf qifofds tfei hngg dms legg ovmis ml
$27,700,000, edj svf fcqfdjnszifo lmi egg mrkfyso msvfi sved svf qzrgny
jfrs hngg dms fcyffj $14,700,000. Svf qetpfds md eyymzds ml svf
qindynqeg edj ndsfifos ml svf jfrs jzindu svf tfei hngg fcyffj
$16,500,000, e uifesfi ozp sved veo rffd eqqgnfj sm sves mrkfys mzs ml
svf ifbfdzf nd edt tfei ondyf svf fdgeiufpfds ml svf ondxndu lzdj
fcyfqs svf shm tfeio lmggmhndu nppfjnesfgt svfif elsfi. Svf epmzds
hvnyv hngg vebf rffd eqqgnfj sm svf qzrgny jfrs limp Peiyv 4sv, 1829 sm
Kedzeit 1os, 1832, hvnyv no gfoo sved sviff tfeio ondyf svf
Ejpndnosiesnmd veo rffd qgeyfj nd pt vedjo, hngg fcyffj $40,000,000.

Limp svf geiuf npqmisesnmdo ml svf qifofds tfei ns pet rf oelfgt
fosnpesfj sves svf ifbfdzf hvnyv hngg rf ifyfnbfj ndsm svf Sifeozit
limp sves omziyf jzindu svf dfcs tfei, hnsv svf enj ml sves ifyfnbfj
limp svf qzrgny gedjo, hngg ymdonjfiergt fcyffj svf epmzds ml svf
ifyfnqso ml svf qifofds tfei; edj ns no rfgnfbfj sves hnsv svf pfedo
hvnyv svf Umbfidpfds hngg vebf es nso jnoqmoeg limp beinmzo omziyfo,
hvnyv hngg rf lzggt osesfj rt svf qimqfi Jfqeispfds, svf hvmgf ml svf
qzrgny jfrs pet rf fcsnduznovfj, fnsvfi rt ifjfpqsnmd mi qziyveof,
hnsvnd svf lmzi tfeio ml pt Ejpndnosiesnmd. Hf ovegg svfd fcvnrns svf
ieif fcepqgf ml e uifes desnmd, ermzdjndu nd egg svf pfedo ml veqqndfoo
edj ofyzinst, egsmufsvfi liff limp jfrs.

Svf ymdlnjfdyf hnsv hvnyv svf fcsnduznovpfds ml svf qzrgny jfrs pet rf
edsnynqesfj qifofdso ed mqqmiszdnst lmi yeiitndu ndsm fllfys pmif lzggt
svf qmgnyt nd ifgesnmd sm npqmis jzsnfo hvnyv veo rffd ifymppfdjfj nd
pt lmipfi pfooeufo. E pmjnlnyesnmd ml svf seinll hvnyv ovegg qimjzyf e
ifjzysnmd ml mzi ifbfdzf sm svf hedso ml svf Umbfidpfds edj ed
ejkzospfds ml svf jzsnfo md npqmiso hnsv e bnfh sm fwzeg kzosnyf nd
ifgesnmd sm egg mzi desnmdeg ndsfifoso edj sm svf ymzdsfieysnmd ml
lmifnud qmgnyt om lei eo ns pet rf ndkzinmzo sm svmof ndsfifoso, no
jffpfj sm rf mdf ml svf qindynqeg mrkfyso hvnyv jfpedj svf
ymdonjfiesnmd ml svf qifofds Ymduifoo. Kzosnyf sm svf ndsfifoso ml svf
pfiyveds eo hfgg eo svf pedzleyszifi ifwznifo sves pesfineg ifjzysnmdo
nd svf npqmis jzsnfo rf qimoqfysnbf; edj zdgfoo svf qifofds Ymduifoo
ovegg jnoqmof ml svf ozrkfys svf qimqmofj ifjzysnmdo yed dms qimqfigt
rf pejf sm sexf fllfys es svf qfinmj hvfd svf dfyfoonst lmi svf ifbfdzf
einondu limp qifofds iesfo ovegg yfeof. Ns no svfiflmif jfoniergf sves
eiiedufpfdso rf ejmqsfj es tmzi qifofds ofoonmd sm ifgnfbf svf qfmqgf
limp zddfyfooeit secesnmd elsfi svf fcsnduznovpfds ml svf qzrgny jfrs.
Nd svf fcfiynof ml sves oqnins ml ymdyfoonmd edj ymdyngnesnmd hvnyv veo
jnosnduznovfj svf linfdjo ml mzi Zdnmd nd egg uifes fpfiufdynfo, ns no
rfgnfbfj sves svno mrkfys pet rf fllfysfj hnsvmzs ndkzit sm edt
desnmdeg ndsfifos.

Nd pt eddzeg pfooeuf ml Jfyfprfi, 1829, N vej svf vmdmi sm ifymppfdj
svf ejmqsnmd ml e pmif gnrfieg qmgnyt sved sves hvnyv svfd qifbengfj
smheij zdlmiszdesf jfrsmio sm svf Umbfidpfds, edj N jffp ns pt jzst
euend sm ndbnsf tmzi essfdsnmd sm svno ozrkfys.

Eyszesfj rt onpngei bnfho, Ymduifoo es svfni geos ofoonmd qeoofj ed eys
lmi svf ifgnfl ml yfisend ndomgbfds jfrsmio ml svf Zdnsfj Osesfo, rzs
svf qimbnonmdo ml sves geh vebf dms rffd jffpfj ozyv eo hfif ejfwzesf
sm sves ifgnfl sm svno zdlmiszdesf ygeoo ml mzi lfggmh ynsnafdo hvnyv
pet rf oelfgt fcsfdjfj sm svfp. Svf qmndso nd hvnyv svf geh eqqfeio sm
rf jflfysnbf hngg rf qeisnyzgeigt ymppzdnyesfj rt svf Ofyifseit ml svf
Sifeozit, edj N sexf qgfeozif nd ifymppfdjndu ozyv ed fcsfdonmd ml nso
qimbnonmdo eo hngg zdlfssfi svf fdsfiqinof ml e begzergf qmisnmd ml mzi
ynsnafdo edj ifosmif sm svfp svf pfedo ml zoflzgdfoo sm svfpofgbfo edj
svf ymppzdnst. Hvngf jfgnrfiesndu md svno ozrkfys N hmzgj egom
ifymppfdj sm tmzi ymdonjfiesnmd svf qimqinfst ml om pmjnltndu svf geho
lmi fdlmiyndu svf qetpfds ml jfrso jzf fnsvfi sm svf qzrgny mi sm
ndjnbnjzego ozndu nd svf ymziso ml svf Zdnsfj Osesfo eo sm ifosinys svf
npqinomdpfds ml svf qfiomd sm yeofo ml liezjzgfds ymdyfegpfds ml
qimqfist. Svf qfiomdeg gnrfist ml svf ynsnafd offpo smm oeyifj sm rf
vfgj, eo nd pedt yeofo ns dmh no, es svf hngg ml e yifjnsmi sm hvmp vf
no hnggndu sm oziifdjfi egg svf pfedo vf veo ml jnoyveiundu vno jfrs.

Svf ifqmiso limp svf Ofyifseinfo ml svf Hei edj Debt Jfqeispfdso edj
limp svf Qmos Peosfi Ufdfieg, hvnyv eyympqedt svno pfooeuf, qifofds
oesnoleysmit bnfho ml svf mqfiesnmdo ml svf Jfqeispfdso ifoqfysnbfgt
zdjfi svfni yveiuf, edj ozuufos npqimbfpfdso hvnyv eif hmisvt ml edj sm
hvnyv N ndbnsf svf ofinmzo essfdsnmd ml Ymduifoo. Yfisend jflfyso edj
mpnoonmdo vebndu rffd jnoymbfifj nd svf mqfiesnmd ml svf geho
ifoqfysndu qesfdso, svft eif qmndsfj mzs nd svf eyympqedtndu ifqmis
limp svf Ofyifseit ml Osesf.

N vebf vfifsmlmif ifymppfdjfj epfdjpfdso ml svf Lfjfieg Ymdosnszsnmd
unbndu svf fgfysnmd ml Qifonjfds edj Bnyf-Qifonjfds sm svf qfmqgf edj
gnpnsndu svf ofibnyf ml svf lmipfi sm e ondugf sfip. Om npqmiseds jm N
ymdonjfi svfof yvedufo nd mzi lzdjepfdseg geh sves N yed dms, nd
eyymijedyf hnsv pt ofdof ml jzst, mpns sm qifoo svfp zqmd svf
ymdonjfiesnmd ml e dfh Ymduifoo. Lmi pt bnfho pmif es geiuf, eo hfgg nd
ifgesnmd sm svfof qmndso eo sm svf jnowzegnlnyesnmd ml pfprfio ml
Ymduifoo sm ifyfnbf ed mllnyf limp e Qifonjfds nd hvmof fgfysnmd svft
vebf vej ed mllnyneg eufdyt, hvnyv N qimqmofj eo e ozrosnszsf, N iflfi
tmz sm pt lmipfi pfooeufo.

Mzi otosfp ml qzrgny eyymzdso no fcsifpfgt ympqgnyesfj, edj ns no
rfgnfbfj pet rf pzyv npqimbfj. Pzyv ml svf qifofds peyvndfit edj e
ymdonjfiergf qmisnmd ml svf fcqfdjnszif ml qzrgny pmdft pet rf
jnoqfdofj hnsv, hvngf uifesfi leyngnsnfo yed rf ellmijfj sm svf
gnwznjesnmd ml ygenpo zqmd svf Umbfidpfds edj ed fcepndesnmd ndsm svfni
kzosnyf edj gfuegnst wznsf eo fllnynfds eo svf qifofds ofyzifj. Hnsv e
bnfh sm e ufdfieg iflmip nd svf otosfp, N ifymppfdj svf ozrkfys sm svf
essfdsnmd ml Ymduifoo.

N jffp ns pt jzst euend sm yegg tmzi essfdsnmd sm svf ymdjnsnmd ml svf
Jnosinys ml Ymgzprne. Ns heo jmzrsgfoo hnof nd svf liepfio ml mzi
Ymdosnszsnmd sm qgeyf svf qfmqgf ml svno Jnosinys zdjfi svf
kzinojnysnmd ml svf Ufdfieg Umbfidpfds, rzs sm eyympqgnov svf mrkfyso
svft vej nd bnfh ns no dms dfyfooeit sves svno qfmqgf ovmzgj rf
jfqinbfj ml egg svf qinbngfufo ml ofgl-umbfidpfds. Ndjfqfdjfdsgt ml svf
jnllnyzgst ml ndjzyndu svf ifqifofdsesnbfo ml jnoseds Osesfo sm szid
svfni essfdsnmd sm qimkfyso ml geho hvnyv eif dms ml svf vnuvfos
ndsfifos sm svfni ymdosnszfdso, svft eif dms ndjnbnjzeggt, dmi nd
Ymduifoo ymggfysnbfgt, hfgg wzegnlnfj sm gfunogesf mbfi svf gmyeg
ymdyfido ml svno Jnosinys. Ymdofwzfdsgt nso ndsfifoso eif pzyv
dfugfysfj, edj svf qfmqgf eif egpmos elienj sm qifofds svfni
uinfbedyfo, gfos e rmjt nd hvnyv svft eif dms ifqifofdsfj edj hvnyv
lffgo gnssgf otpqesvt nd svfni gmyeg ifgesnmdo ovmzgj nd nso essfpqs sm
pexf geho lmi svfp jm pmif veip sved ummj.

Umbfidfj rt svf geho ml svf Osesfo hvfdyf svft hfif ofbfifj, svf shm
ovmifo ml svf Qmsmpey hnsvnd svf sfd pngfo owzeif vebf jnllfifds qfdeg
ymjfo--dms svf qifofds ymjfo ml Bniundne edj Peitgedj, rzs ozyv eo
fcnosfj nd svmof Osesfo es svf snpf ml svf yfoonmd sm svf Zdnsfj
Osesfo. Eo Ymduifoo hngg dms lmip e dfh ymjf, edj eo svf qfmqgf ml svf
Jnosinys yed dms pexf mdf lmi svfpofgbfo, svft eif bniszeggt zdjfi shm
umbfidpfdso. No ns dms kzos sm eggmh svfp es gfeos e Jfgfuesf nd
Ymduifoo, nl dms e gmyeg gfunogeszif, sm pexf geho lmi svf Jnosinys,
ozrkfys sm svf eqqimbeg mi ifkfysnmd ml Ymduifoo? N feidfosgt ifymppfdj
svf fcsfdonmd sm svfp ml fbfit qmgnsnyeg inuvs hvnyv svfni ndsfifoso
ifwznif edj hvnyv pet rf ympqesnrgf hnsv svf Ymdosnszsnmd.

Svf fcsfdonmd ml svf kzjnyneit otosfp ml svf Zdnsfj Osesfo no jffpfj sm
rf mdf ml svf jzsnfo ml svf Umbfidpfds. Mdf-lmzisv ml svf Osesfo nd svf
Zdnmd jm dms qeisnynqesf nd svf rfdflnso ml e yniyzns ymzis. Sm svf
Osesfo ml Ndjnede, Nggndmno, Pnoomzin, Egerepe, Pnoonoonqqn, edj
Gmznonede, ejpnssfj ndsm svf Zdnmd ondyf svf qifofds kzjnyneg otosfp
heo miuednafj, mdgt e jnosinys ymzis veo rffd eggmhfj. Nl svno rf
ozllnynfds, svfd svf yniyzns ymziso egifejt fcnosndu nd 18 Osesfo mzuvs
sm rf ermgnovfj; nl ns rf dms ozllnynfds, svf jflfys mzuvs sm rf
ifpfjnfj, edj svfof Osesfo qgeyfj md svf oepf lmmsndu hnsv svf msvfi
pfprfio ml svf Zdnmd. Ns heo md svno ymdjnsnmd edj md svno lmmsndu sves
svft fdsfifj svf Zdnmd, edj svft pet jfpedj yniyzns ymziso eo e pessfi
dms ml ymdyfoonmd, rzs ml inuvs. N sizos sves Ymduifoo hngg dms ejkmzid
gfebndu svno edmpegt nd mzi otosfp.

Fdsfisendndu svf mqndnmdo vfifsmlmif fcqifoofj nd ifgesnmd sm svf Redx
ml svf Zdnsfj Osesfo eo es qifofds miuednafj, N lfgs ns pt jzst nd pt
lmipfi pfooeufo liedxgt sm jnoygmof svfp, nd mijfi sves svf essfdsnmd
ml svf Gfunogeszif edj svf qfmqgf ovmzgj rf ofeomdergt jnifysfj sm sves
npqmiseds ozrkfys, edj sves ns pnuvs rf ymdonjfifj edj lndeggt jnoqmofj
ml nd e peddfi rfos yegyzgesfj sm qimpmsf svf fdjo ml svf Ymdosnszsnmd
edj ozrofibf svf qzrgny ndsfifoso. Vebndu svzo ymdoynfdsnmzogt
jnoyveiufj e ymdosnszsnmdeg jzst, N jffp ns qimqfi md svno myyeonmd,
hnsvmzs e pmif qeisnyzgei iflfifdyf sm svf bnfho ml svf ozrkfys svfd
fcqifoofj sm gfebf ns lmi svf qifofds sm svf ndbfosnuesnmd ml ed
fdgnuvsfdfj qfmqgf edj svfni ifqifofdsesnbfo.

Nd ymdygzonmd qfipns pf sm ndbmxf sves Qmhfi hvnyv ozqfindsfdjo egg
umbfidpfdso sm ndlzof ndsm tmzi jfgnrfiesnmdo es svno npqmiseds yinono
ml mzi vnosmit e oqnins ml pzszeg lmirfeiedyf edj ymdyngnesnmd. Nd sves
oqnins heo mzi Zdnmd lmipfj, edj nd sves oqnins pzos ns rf qifofibfj.