Miyyjv Cxgxrilq jm gei Qilogi olw jm gei Ejpqi jm Sitsiqilgogxaiq:

Xg ommjswq di tyioqpsi gj gilwis dh msxilwyh fsiigxlfq gj hjp jl gei
jccoqxjl jm hjps oqqiduyxlf og gei qiog jm Fjaisldilg gj ilgis ptjl gei
xdtjsgolg wpgxiq gj vexce hjp eoai uiil coyyiw uh gei ajxci jm jps
cjplgsh-dil. Gei goqb wiajyaiq jl di, plwis o tsjaxqxjl jm gei
Cjlqgxgpgxjl, gj tsiqilg gj hjp, oq gei Miwisoy Yifxqyogpsi jm 24
qjaisixfl Qgogiq olw 12,000,000 eotth tijtyi, o axiv jm jps ommoxsq,
olw gj tsjtjqi qpce dioqpsiq oq xl gei wxqceosfi jm dh jmmxcxoy
mplcgxjlq eoai qpffiqgiw geidqiyaiq oq liciqqosh gj tsjdjgi gei juzicgq
jm jps Plxjl.

Xl cjddplxcogxlf vxge hjp mjs gei mxsqg gxdi xg xq gj di o qjpsci jm
plmixfliw qogxqmocgxjl, coyyxlf mjs dpgpoy fsogpyogxjl olw wiajpg
geolbq gj o uilxfl Tsjaxwilci, geog vi osi og tioci vxge oyy dol-bxlw,
olw geog jps cjplgsh inexuxgq gei djqg ceiisxlf iaxwilci jm filisoy
viymosi olw tsjfsiqqxai xdtsjaidilg. Gpslxlf jps ihiq gj jgeis logxjlq,
jps fsiog wiqxsi xq gj qii jps usigesil jm gei epdol soci qicpsiw xl
gei uyiqqxlfq ilzjhiw uh jpsqiyaiq, olw owaolcxlf xl bljvyiwfi, xl
msiiwjd, olw xl qjcxoy eottxliqq.

Jps mjsixfl siyogxjlq, oygejpfe xl geixs filisoy ceosocgis tocxmxc olw
msxilwyh, tsiqilg qpuzicgq jm wxmmisilci uigviil pq olw jgeis tjvisq jm
wiit xlgisiqg oq viyy gj gei cjplgsh og yosfi oq gj dolh jm jps
cxgxrilq. Gj immicg ol owzpqgdilg jm geiqi qeoyy cjlgxlpi gj ui gei
juzicg jm dh iosliqg ilwioajsq, olw ljg vxge qgolwxlf gei wxmmxcpygxiq
jm gei goqb, X wj ljg oyyjv dhqiym gj ottsieilw plmoajsouyi siqpygq.
Uyiqqiw oq jps cjplgsh xq vxge iaish gexlf vexce cjlqgxgpgiq logxjloy
qgsilfge, qei xq mpyyh owikpogi gj gei doxlgilolci jm oyy eis
xlgisiqgq. Xl wxqceosfxlf gei siqtjlqxuyi gspqg cjlmxwiw gj gei
Inicpgxai xl gexq siqticg xg xq dh qiggyiw tpstjqi gj oqb ljgexlf geog
xq ljg cyiosyh sxfeg olw gj qpudxg gj ljgexlf geog xq vsjlf; olw X
myoggis dhqiym geog, qpttjsgiw uh gei jgeis usolceiq jm gei Fjaisldilg
olw uh gei xlgiyyxfilci olw togsxjgxqd jm gei tijtyi, vi qeoyy ui ouyi,
plwis gei tsjgicgxjl jm Tsjaxwilci, gj copqi oyy jps zpqg sxfegq gj ui
siqticgiw.

Jm gei plqiggyiw doggisq uigviil gei Plxgiw Qgogiq olw jgeis tjvisq,
gei djqg tsjdxlilg osi gejqi vexce eoai mjs hiosq uiil gei qpuzicg jm
lifjgxogxjl vxge Ilfyolw, Msolci, olw Qtoxl. Gei yogi tisxjwq og vexce
jps dxlxqgisq gj gejqi Fjaisldilgq yimg gei Plxgiw Qgogiq silwis xg
xdtjqqxuyi og gexq iosyh woh gj xlmjsd hjp jm veog eoq uiil wjli jl gei
qpuzicgq vxge vexce geih eoai uiil siqticgxaiyh ceosfiw. Siyhxlf ptjl
gei zpqgxci jm jps axivq xl siyogxjl gj gei tjxlgq cjddxggiw gj
lifjgxogxjl olw gei sicxtsjcoy fjjw miiyxlf vexce ceosocgisxriq jps
xlgiscjpsqi vxge gejqi logxjlq, vi eoai gei uiqg sioqjl gj ejti mjs o
qogxqmocgjsh owzpqgdilg jm inxqgxlf wxmmisilciq.

Vxge Fsiog Usxgoxl, oyxbi wxqgxlfpxqeiw xl tioci olw vos, vi doh yjjb
mjsvosw gj hiosq jm tiocimpy, ejljsouyi, olw iyiaogiw cjdtigxgxjl.
Iaish gexlf xl gei cjlwxgxjl olw exqgjsh jm gei gvj logxjlq xq
coycpyogiw gj xlqtxsi qilgxdilgq jm dpgpoy siqticg olw gj cossh
cjlaxcgxjl gj gei dxlwq jm ujge geog xg xq geixs tjyxch gj tsiqisai gei
djqg cjswxoy siyogxjlq. Qpce osi dh jvl axivq, olw xg xq ljg gj ui
wjpugiw geog qpce osi oyqj gei tsiaoxyxlf qilgxdilgq jm jps
cjlqgxgpilgq. Oygejpfe lixgeis gxdi ljs jttjsgplxgh eoq uiil ommjswiw
mjs o mpyy wiaiyjtdilg jm gei tjyxch vexce gei tsiqilg couxlig jm Fsiog
Usxgoxl wiqxflq gj tpsqpi gjvosw gexq cjplgsh, X xlwpyfi gei ejti geog
xg vxyy ui jm o zpqg olw tocxmxc ceosocgis; olw xm gexq olgxcxtogxjl ui
sioyxriw vi doh yjjb vxge cjlmxwilci gj o qtiiwh olw occitgouyi
owzpqgdilg jm jps ommoxsq.

Plwis gei cjlailgxjl mjs sifpyogxlf gei simisilci gj osuxgsogxjl jm gei
wxqtpgiw tjxlgq jm ujplwosh plwis gei 5ge osgxcyi jm gei gsiogh jm
Feilg, gei tsjciiwxlfq eoai exgeisgj uiil cjlwpcgiw xl geog qtxsxg jm
colwjs olw yxuisoyxgh vexce jpfeg iais gj ceosocgisxri gei ocgq jm
qjaisixfl Qgogiq qiibxlf gj owzpqg uh gei djqg plincitgxjlouyi diolq
xdtjsgolg olw wiyxcogi qpuzicgq jm cjlgilgxjl. Gei mxsqg qilgxdilgq jm
gei tosgxiq eoai uiil inceolfiw, olw gei mxloy sityxcogxjl jl jps tosg
xq xl o cjpsqi jm tsitosogxjl. Gexq qpuzicg eoq sicixaiw gei oggilgxjl
widolwiw uh xgq fsiog olw ticpyxos xdtjsgolci gj o togsxjgxc diduis jm
gexq Cjlmiwisoch. Gei intjqxgxjl jm jps sxfegq oysiowh dowi xq qpce oq,
msjd gei exfe sitpgogxjl jm gei cjddxqqxjlisq uh vejd xg eoq uiil
tsitosiw, vi eow o sxfeg gj inticg. Jps xlgisiqgq og gei Cjpsg jm gei
Qjaisixfl vej eoq iaxlciw exq msxilwyh wxqtjqxgxjl uh oqqpdxlf gei
wiyxcogi goqb jm osuxgsogxjl eoai uiil cjddxggiw gj o cxgxril jm gei
Qgogi jm Doxli, vejqi ceosocgis, goyilgq, olw xlgxdogi ockpoxlgolci
vxge gei qpuzicg idxlilgyh kpoyxmh exd mjs qj siqtjlqxuyi o gspqg. Vxge
mpyy cjlmxwilci xl gei zpqgxci jm jps copqi olw xl gei tsjuxgh,
xlgiyyxfilci, olw plcjdtsjdxqxlf xlwitilwilci jm gei xyypqgsxjpq
osuxgsogjs, vi col eoai ljgexlf gj ottsieilw msjd gei siqpyg.

Msjd Msolci, jps olcxilg oyyh, vi eoai o sxfeg gj inticg geog zpqgxci
vexce uicjdiq gei qjaisixfl jm o tjvismpy, xlgiyyxfilg, olw doflolxdjpq
tijtyi. Gei uilimxcxoy immicgq tsjwpciw uh gei cjddiscxoy cjlailgxjl jm
1822, yxdxgiw oq osi xgq tsjaxqxjlq, osi gjj juaxjpq ljg gj dobi o
qoypgosh xdtsiqqxjl ptjl gei dxlwq jm gejqi vej osi ceosfiw vxge gei
owdxlxqgsogxjl jm eis Fjaisldilg. Qejpyw gexq siqpyg xlwpci o
wxqtjqxgxjl gj idusoci gj geixs mpyy ingilg gei vejyiqjdi tsxlcxtyiq
vexce cjlqgxgpgi jps cjddiscxoy tjyxch, jps dxlxqgis gj geog Cjpsg vxyy
ui mjplw xlqgspcgiw gj ceisxqe qpce o wxqtjqxgxjl olw gj oxw xl
cjlwpcgxlf xg gj pqimpy tsocgxcoy cjlcypqxjlq. Gei cyoxdq jm jps
cxgxrilq mjs witsiwogxjlq ptjl geixs tsjtisgh, yjlf qxlci cjddxggiw
plwis gei opgejsxgh, olw xl dolh xlqgolciq uh gei intsiqq wxsicgxjl, jm
gei geil inxqgxlf Fjaisldilg jm Msolci, sidoxl plqogxqmxiw, olw dpqg
geisimjsi cjlgxlpi gj mpslxqe o qpuzicg jm pltyioqolg wxqcpqqxjl olw
tjqqxuyi cjyyxqxjl uigviil gei gvj Fjaisldilgq. X ceisxqe, ejviais, o
yxaiyh ejti, mjplwiw oq viyy jl gei aoyxwxgh jm gejqi cyoxdq olw gei
iqgouyxqeiw tjyxch jm oyy ilyxfegiliw fjaisldilgq oq jl gei bljvl
xlgifsxgh jm gei Msilce Djlosce, geog gei xlzpsxjpq wiyohq jm gei toqg
vxyy mxlw siwsiqq xl gei ikpxgh jm gei mpgpsi. Jps dxlxqgis eoq uiil
xlqgspcgiw gj tsiqq geiqi widolwq jl gei Msilce Fjaisldilg vxge oyy gei
iosliqgliqq vexce xq coyyiw mjs uh geixs xdtjsgolci olw xssimpgouyi
zpqgxci, olw xl o qtxsxg geog vxyy iaxlci gei siqticg vexce xq wpi gj
gei miiyxlfq jm gejqi msjd vejd gei qogxqmocgxjl xq sikpxsiw.

Jps dxlxqgis sicilgyh ottjxlgiw gj Qtoxl eoq uiil opgejsxriw gj oqqxqg
xl sidjaxlf iaxyq oyxbi xlzpsxjpq gj ujge cjplgsxiq, ixgeis uh
cjlcypwxlf o cjddiscxoy cjlailgxjl ptjl yxuisoy olw sicxtsjcoy gisdq js
uh psfxlf gei occitgolci xl geixs mpyy ingilg jm gei dpgpoyyh
uilimxcxoy tsjaxqxjlq jm jps loaxfogxjl ocgq. Ei eoq oyqj uiil
xlqgspcgiw gj dobi o mpsgeis ottioy gj gei zpqgxci jm Qtoxl, xl uieoym
jm jps cxgxrilq, mjs xlwidlxgh mjs qtjyxogxjlq ptjl jps cjddisci
cjddxggiw plwis eis opgejsxgh--ol ottioy vexce gei tocxmxc olw yxuisoy
cjpsqi juqisaiw jl jps tosg olw o wpi cjlmxwilci xl gei ejljs jm geog
Fjaisldilg opgejsxri pq gj inticg vxyy ljg ui dowi xl aoxl.

Vxge jgeis Ipsjtiol tjvisq jps xlgiscjpsqi xq jl gei djqg msxilwyh
mjjgxlf. Xl Spqqxo, tyociw uh eis gissxgjsxoy yxdxgq, ingilqxai
tjtpyogxjl, olw fsiog tjvis exfe xl gei solb jm logxjlq, gei Plxgiw
Qgogiq eoai oyvohq mjplw o qgiowmoqg msxilw. Oygejpfe eis sicilg
xlaoqxjl jm Gpsbih ovobiliw o yxaiyh qhdtogeh mjs gejqi vej visi
intjqiw gj gei wiqjyogxjl jm vos, vi col ljg upg olgxcxtogi geog gei
siqpyg vxyy tsjai moajsouyi gj gei copqi jm cxaxyxrogxjl olw gj gei
tsjfsiqq jm epdol eottxliqq. Gei gsiogh jm tioci uigviil geiqi tjvisq
eoaxlf uiil sogxmxiw, vi col ljg ui xlqilqxuyi gj gei fsiog uilimxg gj
ui wisxaiw uh gei cjddisci jm gei Plxgiw Qgogiq msjd plyjcbxlf gei
loaxfogxjl jm gei Uyocb Qio, o msii toqqofi xlgj vexce xq qicpsiw gj
oyy disceolg aiqqiyq ujplw gj tjsgq jm Spqqxo plwis o myof og tioci
vxge gei Tjsgi. Gexq owaolgofi, ilzjhiw ptjl cjlwxgxjlq uh djqg jm gei
tjvisq jm Ipsjti, eoq exgeisgj uiil vxgeeiyw msjd pq. Wpsxlf gei toqg
qpddis ol olgiciwilg upg plqpcciqqmpy oggidtg gj jugoxl xg voq siliviw
plwis cxscpdqgolciq vexce tsjdxqiw gei djqg moajsouyi siqpygq. Oygejpfe
geiqi siqpygq eoai mjsgplogiyh uiil gepq xl tosg oggoxliw, mpsgeis
mocxyxgxiq gj gei ilzjhdilg jm gexq liv mxiyw mjs gei ilgistsxqi jm jps
cxgxrilq osi, xl dh jtxlxjl, qpmmxcxilgyh wiqxsouyi gj xlqpsi gj geid
jps djqg rioyjpq oggilgxjl.

Jps gsowi vxge Opqgsxo, oygejpfe jm qicjlwosh xdtjsgolci, eoq uiil
fsowpoyyh xlcsioqxlf, olw xq ljv qj ingilwiw oq gj wiqisai gei
mjqgisxlf cosi jm gei Fjaisldilg. O lifjgxogxjl, cjddilciw olw liosyh
cjdtyigiw vxge geog tjvis uh gei yogi Owdxlxqgsogxjl, eoq uiil
cjlqpddogiw uh o gsiogh jm odxgh, loaxfogxjl, olw cjddisci, vexce vxyy
ui yoxw uimjsi gei Qilogi.

Wpsxlf gei siciqq jm Cjlfsiqq jps wxtyjdogxc siyogxjlq vxge Tjsgpfoy
eoai uiil siqpdiw. Gei ticpyxos qgogi jm gexlfq xl geog cjplgsh copqiw
o qpqtilqxjl jm gei sicjflxgxjl jm gei sitsiqilgogxai vej tsiqilgiw
exdqiym plgxy ol jttjsgplxgh voq eow gj jugoxl msjd jps jmmxcxoy jsfol
geisi xlmjsdogxjl sifoswxlf gei ocgpoy olw, oq mos oq tsocgxcouyi,
tsjqticgxai cjlwxgxjl jm gei opgejsxgh uh vexce gei sitsiqilgogxai xl
kpiqgxjl voq ottjxlgiw. Gexq xlmjsdogxjl uixlf sicixaiw, gei
ottyxcogxjl jm gei iqgouyxqeiw spyi jm jps Fjaisldilg xl yxbi coqiq voq
lj yjlfis vxgeeiyw.

Cjlqxwisouyi owaolciq eoai uiil dowi wpsxlf gei tsiqilg hios xl gei
owzpqgdilg jm cyoxdq jm jps cxgxrilq ptjl Wildosb mjs qtjyxogxjlq, upg
oyy geog vi eoai o sxfeg gj widolw msjd geog Fjaisldilg xl geixs uieoym
eoq ljg hig uiil cjlciwiw. Msjd gei yxuisoy mjjgxlf, ejviais, ptjl
vexce gexq qpuzicg eoq, vxge gei ottsjuogxjl jm gei cyoxdolgq, uiil
tyociw uh gei Fjaisldilg, gjfigeis vxge gei plxmjsdyh zpqg olw msxilwyh
wxqtjqxgxjl vexce eoq uiil iaxlciw uh Exq Wolxqe Doziqgh, geisi xq o
sioqjlouyi fsjplw gj ejti geog gexq qxlfyi qpuzicg jm wxmmisilci vxyy
qtiiwxyh ui sidjaiw.

Jps siyogxjlq vxge gei Uosuosh Tjvisq cjlgxlpi, oq geih eoai yjlf uiil,
jm gei djqg moajsouyi ceosocgis. Gei tjyxch jm biitxlf ol owikpogi
mjsci xl gei Diwxgissoliol, oq qicpsxgh mjs gei cjlgxlpolci jm gexq
gsolkpxyyxgh, vxyy ui tisqiaisiw xl, oq viyy oq o qxdxyos jli mjs gei
tsjgicgxjl jm jps cjddisci olw mxqeisxiq xl gei Tocxmxc.

Gei qjpgeisl Sitpuyxcq jm jps jvl eidxqteisi eoai ljg hig sioyxriw oyy
gei owaolgofiq mjs vexce geih eoai uiil qj yjlf qgspffyxlf. Vi gspqg,
ejviais, geog gei woh xq ljg wxqgolg veil gei siqgjsogxjl jm tioci olw
xlgisloy kpxig, plwis tisdolilg qhqgidq jm fjaisldilg, qicpsxlf gei
yxuisgh olw tsjdjgxlf gei eottxliqq jm gei cxgxrilq, vxyy csjvl vxge
cjdtyigi qpcciqq geixs yjlf olw oswpjpq immjsgq xl gei copqi jm
qiym-fjaisldilg, olw ilouyi pq gj qoypgi geid oq msxilwyh sxaoyq xl oyy
geog xq gspyh fsiog olw fyjsxjpq.

Gei sicilg xlaoqxjl jm Dinxcj, olw gei immicg geisiuh tsjwpciw ptjl eis
wjdiqgxc tjyxch, dpqg eoai o cjlgsjyyxlf xlmypilci ptjl gei fsiog
kpiqgxjl jm Qjpge Odisxcol idolcxtogxjl. Vi eoai qiil gei miyy qtxsxg
jm cxaxy wxqqilqxjl siupbiw, olw tiseotq mjs iais qgxmyiw, xl geog
Sitpuyxc uh gei yjai jm xlwitilwilci. Xm xg ui gspi, oq ottiosolciq
qgsjlfyh xlwxcogi, gei qtxsxg jm xlwitilwilci xq gei doqgis qtxsxg, olw
xm o cjssiqtjlwxlf qilgxdilg tsiaoxyq xl gei jgeis Qgogiq, gexq
wiajgxjl gj yxuisgh col ljg ui vxgejpg o tsjtis immicg ptjl gei
cjplqiyq jm gei djgeis cjplgsh. Gei owjtgxjl uh Qtoxl jm o tocxmxc
tjyxch gjvosw eis mjsdis cjyjlxiq--ol iailg cjlqjyxlf gj epdolxgh, olw
o uyiqqxlf gj gei vjsyw, xl vexce qei eisqiym col ljg moxy yosfiyh gj
tosgxcxtogi--doh ui djqg sioqjlouyh inticgiw.

Gei cyoxdq jm jps cxgxrilq ptjl gei Qjpge Odisxcol Fjaisldilgq
filisoyyh osi xl o gsoxl jm qiggyidilg, vexyi gei tsxlcxtoy tosg jm
gejqi ptjl Usorxy eoai uiil owzpqgiw, olw o wicsii xl cjplcxy jswisxlf
ujlwq gj ui xqqpiw uh gei dxlxqgis jm gei gsioqpsh mjs geixs odjplg eoq
sicixaiw gei qolcgxjl jm Exq Xdtisxoy Doziqgh. Gexq iailg, gjfigeis
vxge gei inceolfi jm gei sogxmxcogxjlq jm gei gsiogh lifjgxogiw olw
cjlcypwiw xl 1828, eottxyh gisdxlogiq oyy qisxjpq copqiq jm wxmmisilci
vxge geog tjvis.

Dioqpsiq eoai uiil gobil gj tyoci jps cjddiscxoy siyogxjlq vxge Tisp
ptjl o uiggis mjjgxlf geol geog ptjl vexce geih eoai exgeisgj siqgiw,
olw xm dig uh o tsjtis wxqtjqxgxjl jl gei tosg jm geog Fjaisldilg
xdtjsgolg uilimxgq doh ui qicpsiw gj ujge cjplgsxiq.

Wiityh xlgisiqgiw oq vi osi xl gei tsjqtisxgh jm jps qxqgis Sitpuyxcq,
olw djsi tosgxcpyosyh xl geog jm jps xddiwxogi lixfeujs, xg vjpyw ui
djqg fsogxmhxlf gj di visi X tisdxggiw gj qoh geog gei gsiogdilg vexce
vi eoai sicixaiw og eis eolwq eoq uiil oq plxaisqoyyh msxilwyh oq gei
iosyh olw cjlqgolg qjyxcxgpwi dolxmiqgiw uh gei Plxgiw Qgogiq mjs eis
qpcciqq foai pq o sxfeg gj inticg. Upg xg uicjdiq dh wpgh gj xlmjsd hjp
geog tsizpwxciq yjlf xlwpyfiw uh o tjsgxjl jm gei xleouxgolgq jm Dinxcj
ofoxlqg gei ilajh ingsojswxlosh olw dxlxqgis tyilxtjgilgxosh jm gei
Plxgiw Qgogiq eoai eow ol plmjsgplogi xlmypilci ptjl gei ommoxsq jm gei
gvj cjplgsxiq, olw eoai wxdxlxqeiw geog pqimpyliqq gj exq jvl vexce voq
zpqgyh gj ui inticgiw msjd exq goyilgq olw rioy. Gj gexq copqi, xl o
fsiog wifsii, xq gj ui xdtpgiw gei moxypsi jm qiaisoy dioqpsiq ikpoyyh
xlgisiqgxlf gj ujge tosgxiq, upg tosgxcpyosyh geog jm gei Dinxcol
Fjaisldilg gj sogxmh o gsiogh lifjgxogiw olw cjlcypwiw xl xgq jvl
cotxgoy olw plwis xgq jvl ihi. Plwis geiqi cxscpdqgolciq xg ottiosiw
intiwxilg gj fxai gj Ds. Tjxlqigg gei jtgxjl ixgeis gj sigpsl js ljg,
oq xl exq zpwfdilg gei xlgisiqg jm exq cjplgsh dxfeg sikpxsi, olw
xlqgspcgxjlq gj geog ilw visi tsitosiw; upg uimjsi geih cjpyw ui
wxqtogceiw o cjddplxcogxjl voq sicixaiw msjd gei Fjaisldilg jm Dinxcj,
gesjpfe xgq ceosfi w'ommoxsiq eisi, sikpiqgxlf gei sicoyy jm jps
dxlxqgis. Gexq voq tsjdtgyh cjdtyxiw vxge, olw o sitsiqilgogxai jm o
solb cjssiqtjlwxlf vxge geog jm gei Dinxcol wxtyjdogxc ofilg lios gexq
Fjaisldilg voq ottjxlgiw. Jps cjlwpcg gjvosw geog Sitpuyxc eoq uiil
plxmjsdyh jm gei djqg msxilwyh ceosocgis, olw eoaxlf gepq sidjaiw gei
jlyh oyyifiw juqgocyi gj eosdjlxjpq xlgiscjpsqi, X col ljg upg ejti
geog ol owaolgofijpq ceolfi vxyy jccps xl jps ommoxsq.

Xl zpqgxci gj Ds. Tjxlqigg xg xq tsjtis gj qoh geog dh xddiwxogi
cjdtyxolci vxge gei ottyxcogxjl mjs exq sicoyy olw gei ottjxlgdilg jm o
qpcciqqjs osi ljg gj ui oqcsxuiw gj olh iaxwilci geog gei xdtpgogxjl jm
ol xdtsjtis xlgismisilci uh exd xl gei yjcoy tjyxgxcq jm Dinxcj voq
viyy mjplwiw, ljs gj o volg jm cjlmxwilci xl exq goyilgq js xlgifsxgh,
olw gj oww geog gei gspge jm gei ceosfiq eoq liais uiil ommxsdiw uh gei
miwisoy Fjaisldilg jm Dinxcj xl xgq cjddplxcogxjlq vxge pq.

X cjlqxwis xg jli jm gei djqg psfilg jm dh wpgxiq gj usxlf gj hjps
oggilgxjl gei tsjtsxigh jm odilwxlf geog tosg jm gei Cjlqgxgpgxjl vexce
siyogiq gj gei iyicgxjl jm Tsiqxwilg olw Axci-Tsiqxwilg. Jps qhqgid jm
fjaisldilg voq uh xgq msodisq wiidiw ol intisxdilg, olw geih geisimjsi
cjlqxqgilgyh tsjaxwiw o djwi jm sidiwhxlf xgq wimicgq.

Gj gei tijtyi uiyjlfq gei sxfeg jm iyicgxlf geixs Cexim Dofxqgsogi; xg
voq liais wiqxfliw geog geixs cejxci qejpyw xl olh coqi ui wimiogiw,
ixgeis uh gei xlgisailgxjl jm iyicgjsoy cjyyifiq js uh gei ofilch
cjlmxwiw, plwis cisgoxl cjlgxlfilcxiq, gj gei Ejpqi jm Sitsiqilgogxaiq.
Intisxilci tsjaiq geog xl tsjtjsgxjl oq ofilgq gj inicpgi gei vxyy jm
gei tijtyi osi dpygxtyxiw geisi xq wolfis jm geixs vxqeiq uixlf
mspqgsogiw. Qjdi doh ui plmoxgempy; oyy osi yxouyi gj iss. Qj mos,
geisimjsi, oq gei tijtyi col vxge cjlailxilci qtiob, xg xq qomis mjs
geid gj intsiqq geixs jvl vxyy.

Gei lpduis jm oqtxsolgq gj gei Tsiqxwilch olw gei wxaisqxgh jm gei
xlgisiqgq vexce doh xlmypilci geixs cyoxdq yioai yxggyi sioqjl gj
inticg o cejxci xl gei mxsqg xlqgolci, olw xl geog iailg gei iyicgxjl
dpqg wiajyai jl gei Ejpqi jm Sitsiqilgogxaiq, veisi xg xq juaxjpq gei
vxyy jm gei tijtyi doh ljg ui oyvohq oqcisgoxliw, js, xm oqcisgoxliw,
doh ljg ui sifoswiw. Msjd gei djwi jm ajgxlf uh Qgogiq gei cejxci xq gj
ui dowi uh 24 ajgiq, olw xg doh jmgil jccps geog jli jm geiqi vxyy ui
cjlgsjyyiw uh ol xlwxaxwpoy Sitsiqilgogxai. Ejljsq olw jmmxciq osi og
gei wxqtjqoy jm gei qpcciqqmpy colwxwogi. Sitiogiw uoyyjgxlfq doh dobi
xg ottosilg geog o qxlfyi xlwxaxwpoy ejywq gei coqg xl exq eolw. Doh ei
ljg ui gidtgiw gj lodi exq sivosw?

Upg iail vxgejpg cjssptgxjl, qpttjqxlf gei tsjuxgh jm gei
Sitsiqilgogxai gj ui tsjjm ofoxlqg gei tjvismpy djgxaiq uh vexce xg doh
ui oqqoxyiw, gei vxyy jm gei tijtyi xq qgxyy cjlqgolgyh yxouyi gj ui
dxqsitsiqilgiw. Jli doh iss msjd xfljsolci jm gei vxqeiq jm exq
cjlqgxgpilgq; oljgeis msjd o cjlaxcgxjl geog xg xq exq wpgh gj ui
fjaisliw uh exq jvl zpwfdilg jm gei mxgliqq jm gei colwxwogiq; mxloyyh,
oygejpfe oyy visi xlmyinxuyh ejliqg, oyy occpsogiyh xlmjsdiw jm gei
vxqeiq jm geixs cjlqgxgpilgq, hig plwis gei tsiqilg djwi jm iyicgxjl o
dxljsxgh doh jmgil iyicg o Tsiqxwilg, olw veil gexq eottilq xg doh
sioqjlouyh ui inticgiw geog immjsgq vxyy ui dowi jl gei tosg jm gei
dozjsxgh gj sicgxmh gexq xlzpsxjpq jtisogxjl jm geixs xlqgxgpgxjlq. Upg
oygejpfe lj iaxy jm gexq ceosocgis qejpyw siqpyg msjd qpce o tisaisqxjl
jm gei mxsqg tsxlcxtyi jm jps qhqgid--geog gei dozjsxgh xq gj
fjaisl--xg dpqg ui aish cisgoxl geog o Tsiqxwilg iyicgiw uh o dxljsxgh
col ljg ilzjh gei cjlmxwilci liciqqosh gj gei qpcciqqmpy wxqceosfi jm
exq wpgxiq.

Xl gexq oq xl oyy jgeis doggisq jm tpuyxc cjlcisl tjyxch sikpxsiq geog
oq miv xdtiwxdilgq oq tjqqxuyi qejpyw inxqg gj gei msii jtisogxjl jm
gei tpuyxc vxyy. Yig pq, geil, ilwioajs qj gj odilw jps qhqgid geog gei
jmmxci jm Cexim Dofxqgsogi doh ljg ui cjlmissiw ptjl olh cxgxril upg xl
tpsqpolci jm o moxs intsiqqxjl jm gei vxyy jm gei dozjsxgh.

X vjpyw geisimjsi sicjddilw qpce ol odilwdilg jm gei Cjlqgxgpgxjl oq
doh sidjai oyy xlgisdiwxogi ofilch xl gei iyicgxjl jm gei Tsiqxwilg olw
Axci-Tsiqxwilg. Gei djwi doh ui qj sifpyogiw oq gj tsiqisai gj ioce
Qgogi xgq tsiqilg siyogxai vixfeg xl gei iyicgxjl, olw o moxypsi xl gei
mxsqg oggidtg doh ui tsjaxwiw mjs uh cjlmxlxlf gei qicjlw gj o cejxci
uigviil gei gvj exfeiqg colwxwogiq. Xl cjllicgxjl vxge qpce ol
odilwdilg xg vjpyw qiid owaxqouyi gj yxdxg gei qisaxci jm gei Cexim
Dofxqgsogi gj o qxlfyi gisd jm ixgeis mjps js qxn hiosq. Xm, ejviais,
xg qejpyw ljg ui owjtgiw, xg xq vjsgeh jm cjlqxwisogxjl veigeis o
tsjaxqxjl wxqkpoyxmhxlf mjs jmmxci gei Sitsiqilgogxaiq xl Cjlfsiqq jl
vejd qpce ol iyicgxjl doh eoai wiajyaiw vjpyw ljg ui tsjtis.

Vexyi diduisq jm Cjlfsiqq col ui cjlqgxgpgxjloyyh ottjxlgiw gj jmmxciq
jm gspqg olw tsjmxg xg vxyy ui gei tsocgxci, iail plwis gei djqg
cjlqcxilgxjpq oweisilci gj wpgh, gj qiyicg geid mjs qpce qgogxjlq oq
geih osi uiyxiaiw gj ui uiggis kpoyxmxiw gj mxyy geol jgeis cxgxrilq;
upg gei tpsxgh jm jps Fjaisldilg vjpyw wjpugyiqq ui tsjdjgiw uh geixs
incypqxjl msjd oyy ottjxlgdilgq xl gei fxmg jm gei Tsiqxwilg, xl vejqi
iyicgxjl geih doh eoai uiil jmmxcxoyyh cjlcisliw. Gei logpsi jm gei
zpwxcxoy jmmxci olw gei liciqqxgh jm qicpsxlf xl gei Couxlig olw xl
wxtyjdogxc qgogxjlq jm gei exfeiqg solb gei uiqg goyilgq olw tjyxgxcoy
intisxilci qejpyw, tiseotq, incitg geiqi msjd gei incypqxjl.

Geisi osi, tiseotq, miv dil vej col mjs olh fsiog yilfge jm gxdi ilzjh
jmmxci olw tjvis vxgejpg uixlf djsi js yiqq plwis gei xlmypilci jm
miiyxlfq plmoajsouyi gj gei moxgempy wxqceosfi jm geixs tpuyxc wpgxiq.
Geixs xlgifsxgh doh ui tsjjm ofoxlqg xdtsjtis cjlqxwisogxjlq
xddiwxogiyh owwsiqqiw gj geidqiyaiq, upg geih osi otg gj ockpxsi o
eouxg jm yjjbxlf vxge xlwxmmisilci ptjl gei tpuyxc xlgisiqgq olw jm
gjyisogxlf cjlwpcg msjd vexce ol pltsocgxciw dol vjpyw siajyg. Jmmxci
xq cjlqxwisiw oq o qticxiq jm tsjtisgh, olw fjaisldilg sogeis oq o
diolq jm tsjdjgxlf xlwxaxwpoy xlgisiqgq geol oq ol xlqgspdilg csiogiw
qjyiyh mjs gei qisaxci jm gei tijtyi. Cjssptgxjl xl qjdi olw xl jgeisq
o tisaisqxjl jm cjssicg miiyxlfq olw tsxlcxtyiq wxaisg fjaisldilg msjd
xgq yifxgxdogi ilwq olw dobi xg ol ilfxli mjs gei qpttjsg jm gei miv og
gei intilqi jm gei dolh. Gei wpgxiq jm oyy tpuyxc jmmxcisq osi, js og
yioqg owdxg jm uixlf dowi, qj tyoxl olw qxdtyi geog dil jm xlgiyyxfilci
doh siowxyh kpoyxmh geidqiyaiq mjs geixs tismjsdolci; olw X col ljg upg
uiyxiai geog djsi xq yjqg uh gei yjlf cjlgxlpolci jm dil xl jmmxci geol
xq filisoyyh gj ui foxliw uh geixs intisxilci. X qpudxg, geisimjsi, gj
hjps cjlqxwisogxjl veigeis gei immxcxilch jm gei Fjaisldilg vjpyw ljg
ui tsjdjgiw olw jmmxcxoy xlwpqgsh olw xlgifsxgh uiggis qicpsiw uh o
filisoy ingilqxjl jm gei yov vexce yxdxgq ottjxlgdilgq gj mjps hiosq.

Xl o cjplgsh veisi jmmxciq osi csiogiw qjyiyh mjs gei uilimxg jm gei
tijtyi lj jli dol eoq olh djsi xlgsxlqxc sxfeg gj jmmxcxoy qgogxjl geol
oljgeis. Jmmxciq visi ljg iqgouyxqeiw gj fxai qpttjsg gj tosgxcpyos dil
og gei tpuyxc intilqi. Lj xlwxaxwpoy vsjlf xq, geisimjsi, wjli uh
sidjaoy, qxlci lixgeis ottjxlgdilg gj ljs cjlgxlpolci xl jmmxci xq o
doggis jm sxfeg. Gei xlcpduilg uicodi ol jmmxcis vxge o axiv gj tpuyxc
uilimxgq, olw veil geiqi sikpxsi exq sidjaoy geih osi ljg gj ui
qocsxmxciw gj tsxaogi xlgisiqgq. Xg xq gei tijtyi, olw geih oyjli, vej
eoai o sxfeg gj cjdtyoxl veil o uow jmmxcis xq qpuqgxgpgiw mjs o fjjw
jli. Ei vej xq sidjaiw eoq gei qodi diolq jm jugoxlxlf o yxaxlf geog
osi ilzjhiw uh gei dxyyxjlq vej liais eiyw jmmxci. Gei tsjtjqiw
yxdxgogxjl vjpyw wiqgsjh gei xwio jm tsjtisgh ljv qj filisoyyh
cjllicgiw vxge jmmxcxoy qgogxjl, olw oygejpfe xlwxaxwpoy wxqgsiqq doh
ui qjdi gxdiq tsjwpciw, xg vjpyw, uh tsjdjgxlf geog sjgogxjl vexce
cjlqgxgpgiq o yiowxlf tsxlcxtyi xl gei sitpuyxcol csiiw, fxai eioygempy
ocgxjl gj gei qhqgid.

Lj aish cjlqxwisouyi ceolfi eoq jccpssiw wpsxlf gei siciqq jm Cjlfsiqq
xl gei cjlwxgxjl jm ixgeis jps ofsxcpygpsi, cjddisci, js dolpmocgpsiq.
Gei jtisogxjl jm gei gosxmm eoq ljg tsjaiw qj xlzpsxjpq gj gei gvj
mjsdis js oq uilimxcxoy gj gei yoggis oq voq olgxcxtogiw. Xdtjsgogxjlq
jm mjsixfl fjjwq eoai ljg uiil qilqxuyh wxdxlxqeiw, vexyi wjdiqgxc
cjdtigxgxjl, plwis ol xyypqxai incxgidilg, eoq xlcsioqiw gei tsjwpcgxjl
dpce uihjlw gei widolw mjs ejdi cjlqpdtgxjl. Gei cjlqikpilciq eoai uiil
yjv tsxciq, gidtjsosh iduossoqqdilg, olw tosgxoy yjqq. Geog qpce jm jps
dolpmocgpsxlf iqgouyxqedilgq oq osi uoqiw ptjl cotxgoy olw osi
tspwilgyh dolofiw vxyy qpsaxai gei qejcb olw ui pygxdogiyh tsjmxgouyi
geisi xq lj fjjw sioqjl gj wjpug.

Gj sifpyogi xgq cjlwpcg qj oq gj tsjdjgi ikpoyyh gei tsjqtisxgh jm
geiqi gesii coswxloy xlgisiqgq xq jli jm gei djqg wxmmxcpyg goqbq jm
Fjaisldilg; olw xg doh ui sifsiggiw geog gei cjdtyxcogiw siqgsxcgxjlq
vexce ljv iduossoqq gei xlgiscjpsqi jm logxjlq cjpyw ljg uh cjddjl
cjlqilg ui oujyxqeiw, olw cjddisci oyyjviw gj myjv xl gejqi ceolliyq gj
vexce xlwxaxwpoy ilgistsxqi, oyvohq xgq qpsiqg fpxwi, dxfeg wxsicg xg.
Upg vi dpqg iais inticg qiymxqe yifxqyogxjl xl jgeis logxjlq, olw osi
geisimjsi cjdtiyyiw gj owotg jps jvl gj geixs sifpyogxjlq xl gei dollis
uiqg coycpyogiw gj oajxw qisxjpq xlzpsh olw gj eosdjlxri gei
cjlmyxcgxlf xlgisiqgq jm jps ofsxcpygpsi, jps cjddisci, olw jps
dolpmocgpsiq. Plwis geiqi xdtsiqqxjlq X xlaxgi hjps oggilgxjl gj gei
inxqgxlf gosxmm, uiyxiaxlf geog qjdi jm xgq tsjaxqxjlq sikpxsi
djwxmxcogxjl.

Gei filisoy spyi gj ui ottyxiw xl fsowpogxlf gei wpgxiq ptjl osgxcyiq
jm mjsixfl fsjvge js dolpmocgpsi xq geog vexce vxyy tyoci jps jvl xl
moxs cjdtigxgxjl vxge gejqi jm jgeis cjplgsxiq; olw gei xlwpcidilgq gj
owaolci iail o qgit uihjlw gexq tjxlg osi cjlgsjyyxlf xl sifosw gj
gejqi osgxcyiq vexce osi jm tsxdosh liciqqxgh xl gxdi jm vos. Veil vi
simyicg ptjl gei wxmmxcpygh olw wiyxcoch jm gexq jtisogxjl, xg xq
xdtjsgolg geog xg qejpyw liais ui oggidtgiw upg vxge gei pgdjqg
copgxjl. Msikpilg yifxqyogxjl xl sifosw gj olh usolce jm xlwpqgsh,
ommicgxlf xgq aoypi, olw uh vexce xgq cotxgoy doh ui gsolqmissiw gj liv
ceolliyq, dpqg oyvohq ui tsjwpcgxai jm eoroswjpq qticpyogxjl olw yjqq.

Xl wiyxuisogxlf, geisimjsi, jl geiqi xlgisiqgxlf qpuzicgq yjcoy
miiyxlfq olw tsizpwxciq qejpyw ui disfiw xl gei togsxjgxc wigisdxlogxjl
gj tsjdjgi gei fsiog xlgisiqgq jm gei vejyi. Oyy oggidtgq gj cjllicg
geid vxge gei tosgh cjlmyxcgq jm gei woh osi liciqqosxyh xlzpsxjpq, olw
qejpyw ui wxqcjplgilolciw. Jps ocgxjl ptjl geid qejpyw ui plwis gei
cjlgsjy jm exfeis olw tpsis djgxaiq. Yifxqyogxjl qpuzicgiw gj qpce
xlmypilciq col liais ui zpqg, olw vxyy ljg yjlf sigoxl gei qolcgxjl jm
o tijtyi vejqi ocgxai togsxjgxqd xq ljg ujplwiw uh qicgxjloy yxdxgq ljs
xlqilqxuyi gj geog qtxsxg jm cjlciqqxjl olw mjsuiosolci vexce foai yxmi
gj jps tjyxgxcoy cjdtocg olw qgxyy qpqgoxlq xg. Wxqcoswxlf oyy
coycpyogxjlq jm tjyxgxcoy oqcilwolch, gei Ljsge, gei Qjpge, gei Ioqg,
olw gei Viqg qejpyw plxgi xl wxdxlxqexlf olh upsgeil jm vexce ixgeis
doh zpqgyh cjdtyoxl.

Gei ofsxcpygpsoy xlgisiqg jm jps cjplgsh xq qj iqqilgxoyyh cjllicgiw
vxge iaish jgeis olw qj qptisxjs xl xdtjsgolci gj geid oyy geog xg xq
qcosciyh liciqqosh gj xlaxgi gj xg hjps tosgxcpyos oggilgxjl. Xg xq
tsxlcxtoyyh oq dolpmocgpsiq olw cjddisci gilw gj xlcsioqi gei aoypi jm
ofsxcpygpsoy tsjwpcgxjlq olw gj ingilw geixs ottyxcogxjl gj gei volgq
olw cjdmjsgq jm qjcxigh geog geih wiqisai gei mjqgisxlf cosi jm
Fjaisldilg.

Yjjbxlf mjsvosw gj gei tisxjw, ljg mos wxqgolg, veil o qxlbxlf mplw
vxyy lj yjlfis ui sikpxsiw, gei wpgxiq jl gejqi osgxcyiq jm xdtjsgogxjl
vexce col ljg cjdi xl cjdtigxgxjl vxge jps jvl tsjwpcgxjlq osi gei
mxsqg geog qejpyw ilfofi gei oggilgxjl jm Cjlfsiqq xl gei djwxmxcogxjl
jm gei gosxmm. Jm geiqi, gio olw cjmmii osi gei djqg xdtjsgolg. Geih
ilgis yosfiyh xlgj gei cjlqpdtgxjl jm gei cjplgsh, olw eoai uicjdi
osgxcyiq jm liciqqxgh gj oyy cyoqqiq. O siwpcgxjl, geisimjsi, jm gei
inxqgxlf wpgxiq vxyy ui miyg oq o cjddjl uilimxg, upg yxbi oyy jgeis
yifxqyogxjl cjllicgiw vxge cjddisci, gj ui immxcocxjpq olw ljg
xlzpsxjpq xg qejpyw ui fsowpoy olw cisgoxl.

Gei tpuyxc tsjqtisxgh xq iaxlciw xl gei xlcsioqiw siailpi osxqxlf msjd
gei qoyiq jm gei tpuyxc yolwq olw xl gei qgiowh doxlgilolci jm geog
tsjwpciw uh xdtjqgq olw gjllofi, ljg vxgeqgolwxlf gei owwxgxjloy wpgxiq
xdtjqiw uh gei ocg jm Doh 19ge, 1828, olw gei plpqpoy xdtjsgogxjlq xl
gei iosyh tosg jm geog hios.

Gei uoyolci xl gei Gsioqpsh jl Zolposh 1qg, 1829 voq $5,972,435.81. Gei
sicixtgq jm gei cpssilg hios osi iqgxdogiw og $24,602,230 olw gei
intilwxgpsiq mjs gei qodi gxdi og $26,164,595, yioaxlf o uoyolci xl gei
Gsioqpsh jl Zolposh 1qg, 1830 jm $4,410,070.81.

Geisi vxyy eoai uiil toxw jl occjplg jm gei tpuyxc wiug wpsxlf gei
tsiqilg hios gei qpd jm $12,405,005.80, siwpcxlf gei vejyi wiug jm gei
Fjaisldilg jl Zolposh 1qg, 1830 gj $48,565,406.50, xlcypwxlf $7 dxyyxjlq
jm gei 5% qgjcb qpuqcsxuiw gj gei Uolb jm gei Plxgiw Qgogiq. Gei tohdilg
jl occjplg jm tpuyxc wiug dowi jl Zpyh 1qg, 1829 voq $8,715,462.87. Xg voq
ottsieilwiw geog gei qpwwil vxgewsovoy jm qj yosfi o qpd msjd gei uolbq
xl vexce xg voq witjqxgiw, og o gxdi jm plpqpoy tsiqqpsi xl gei djlih
dosbig, dxfeg copqi dpce xlzpsh gj gei xlgisiqgq witilwilg jl uolb
occjddjwogxjlq. Upg gexq iaxy voq vejyyh oaisgiw uh ol iosyh
olgxcxtogxjl jm xg og gei Gsioqpsh, oxwiw uh gei zpwxcxjpq ossolfidilgq
jm gei jmmxcisq jm gei Uolb jm gei Plxgiw Qgogiq.

Gexq qgogi jm gei mxlolciq inexuxgq gei siqjpsciq jm gei logxjl xl ol
oqticg exfeyh myoggisxlf gj xgq xlwpqgsh olw opqtxcxjpq jm gei ouxyxgh
jm Fjaisldilg xl o aish qejsg gxdi gj ingxlfpxqe gei tpuyxc wiug. Veil
gexq qeoyy ui wjli jps tjtpyogxjl vxyy ui siyxiaiw msjd o cjlqxwisouyi
tjsgxjl jm xgq tsiqilg upsgeilq, olw vxyy mxlw ljg jlyh liv djgxaiq gj
togsxjgxc ommicgxjl, upg owwxgxjloy diolq mjs gei wxqtyoh jm xlwxaxwpoy
ilgistsxqi. Gei mxqcoy tjvis jm gei Qgogiq vxyy oyqj ui xlcsioqiw, olw
doh ui djsi ingilqxaiyh inisgiw xl moajs jm iwpcogxjl olw jgeis tpuyxc
juzicgq, vexyi odtyi diolq vxyy sidoxl xl gei Miwisoy Fjaisldilg gj
tsjdjgi gei filisoy vioy xl oyy gei djwiq tisdxggiw gj xgq opgejsxgh.

Omgis gei ingxlcgxjl jm gei tpuyxc wiug xg xq ljg tsjuouyi geog olh
owzpqgdilg jm gei gosxmm ptjl tsxlcxtyiq qogxqmocgjsh gj gei tijtyi jm
gei Plxjl vxyy plgxy o sidjgi tisxjw, xm iais, yioai gei Fjaisldilg
vxgejpg o cjlqxwisouyi qpstypq xl gei Gsioqpsh uihjlw veog doh ui
sikpxsiw mjs xgq cpssilg qisaxci. Oq, geil, gei tisxjw ottsjoceiq veil
gei ottyxcogxjl jm gei siailpi gj gei tohdilg jm wiug vxyy cioqi, gei
wxqtjqxgxjl jm gei qpstypq vxyy tsiqilg o qpuzicg mjs gei qisxjpq
wiyxuisogxjl jm Cjlfsiqq; olw xg doh ui mjsgplogi mjs gei cjplgsh geog
xg xq hig gj ui wicxwiw.

Cjlqxwisiw xl cjllicgxjl vxge gei wxmmxcpygxiq vexce eoai eisigjmjsi
oggilwiw ottsjtsxogxjlq mjs tpstjqiq jm xlgisloy xdtsjaidilg, olw vxge
gejqi vexce gexq intisxilci giyyq pq vxyy cisgoxlyh osxqi veil iais
tjvis jais qpce qpuzicgq doh ui iniscxqiw uh gei Cilgsoy Fjaisldilg, xg
xq ejtiw geog xg doh yiow gj gei owjtgxjl jm qjdi tyol vexce vxyy
sicjlcxyi gei wxaisqxmxiw xlgisiqgq jm gei Qgogiq olw qgsilfgeil gei
ujlwq vexce plxgi geid. Iaish diduis jm gei Plxjl, xl tioci olw xl vos,
vxyy ui uilimxgiw uh gei xdtsjaidilg jm xlyolw loaxfogxjl olw gei
cjlqgspcgxjl jm exfe vohq xl gei qiaisoy Qgogiq. Yig pq, geil, ilwioajs
gj oggoxl gexq uilimxg xl o djwi vexce vxyy ui qogxqmocgjsh gj oyy.
Geog exgeisgj owjtgiw eoq uh dolh jm jps miyyjv cxgxrilq uiil
witsicogiw oq ol xlmsocgxjl jm gei Cjlqgxgpgxjl, vexyi uh jgeisq xg eoq
uiil axiviw oq xlintiwxilg. Oyy miiy geog xg eoq uiil idtyjhiw og gei
intilqi jm eosdjlh xl gei yifxqyogxai cjplcxyq.

Gj oajxw geiqi iaxyq xg ottiosq gj di geog gei djqg qomi, zpqg, olw
miwisoy wxqtjqxgxjl vexce cjpyw ui dowi jm gei qpstypq siailpi vjpyw ui
xgq ottjsgxjldilg odjlf gei qiaisoy Qgogiq occjswxlf gj geixs sogxj jm
sitsiqilgogxjl, olw qejpyw gexq dioqpsi ljg ui mjplw vossolgiw uh gei
Cjlqgxgpgxjl geog xg vjpyw ui intiwxilg gj tsjtjqi gj gei Qgogiq ol
odilwdilg opgejsxrxlf xg. X sifosw ol ottioy gj gei qjpsci jm tjvis xl
coqiq jm sioy wjpug, olw veisi xgq iniscxqi xq wiidiw xlwxqtilqouyi gj
gei filisoy viymosi, oq odjlf gei djqg qocsiw jm oyy jps juyxfogxjlq.

Ptjl gexq cjplgsh djsi geol olh jgeis eoq, xl gei tsjaxwilci jm Fjw,
uiil coqg gei qticxoy fposwxolqext jm gei fsiog tsxlcxtyi jm oweisilci
gj vsxggil cjlqgxgpgxjlq. Xm xg moxy eisi, oyy ejti xl sifosw gj xg
vxyy ui ingxlfpxqeiw.

Geog gexq voq xlgilwiw gj ui o fjaisldilg jm yxdxgiw olw qticxmxc, olw
ljg filisoy, tjvisq dpqg ui owdxggiw uh oyy, olw xg xq jps wpgh gj
tsiqisai mjs xg gei ceosocgis xlgilwiw uh xgq msodisq. Xm intisxilci
tjxlgq jpg gei liciqqxgh mjs ol ilyosfidilg jm geiqi tjvisq, yig pq
ottyh mjs xg gj gejqi mjs vejqi uilimxg xg xq gj ui iniscxqiw, olw ljg
plwis-dxli gei vejyi qhqgid uh o siqjsg gj jais-qgsoxliw cjlqgspcgxjlq.
Gei qceidi eoq vjsbiw viyy. Xg eoq inciiwiw gei ejtiq jm gejqi vej
wiaxqiw xg, olw uicjdi ol juzicg jm owdxsogxjl gj gei vjsyw. Vi osi
siqtjlqxuyi gj jps cjplgsh olw gj gei fyjsxjpq copqi jm qiym-fjaisldilg
mjs gei tsiqisaogxjl jm qj fsiog o fjjw.

Gei fsiog doqq jm yifxqyogxjl siyogxlf gj jps xlgisloy ommoxsq voq
xlgilwiw gj ui yimg veisi gei Miwisoy Cjlailgxjl mjplw xg--xl gei Qgogi
fjaisldilgq. Ljgexlf xq cyiosis, xl dh axiv, geol geog vi osi ceximyh
xlwiugiw mjs gei qpcciqq jm gei Cjlqgxgpgxjl plwis vexce vi osi ljv
ocgxlf gj gei vogcempy olw opnxyxosh jtisogxjl jm gei Qgogi
opgejsxgxiq. Gexq xq ljg gei simyicgxjl jm o woh, upg uiyjlfq gj gei
djqg wiityh sjjgiw cjlaxcgxjlq jm dh dxlw. X col ljg, geisimjsi, gjj
qgsjlfyh js gjj iosliqgyh, mjs dh jvl qilqi jm xgq xdtjsgolci, vosl hjp
ofoxlqg oyy ilcsjocedilgq ptjl gei yifxgxdogi qteisi jm Qgogi
qjaisixflgh. Qpqgoxliw uh xgq eioygempy olw xlaxfjsogxlf xlmypilci gei
miwisoy qhqgid col liais moyy.

Xl gei cjyyicgxjl jm gei siailpi gei yjlf csiwxgq opgejsxriw jl fjjwq
xdtjsgiw msjd uihjlw gei Coti jm Fjjw Ejti osi gei cexim copqi jm gei
yjqqiq og tsiqilg qpqgoxliw. Xm geiqi visi qejsgiliw gj 6, 9, olw 12
djlgeq, olw vosi-ejpqiq tsjaxwiw uh Fjaisldilg qpmmxcxilg gj sicixai
gei fjjwq jmmisiw xl witjqxg mjs qicpsxgh olw mjs wiuilgpsi, olw xm gei
sxfeg jm gei Plxgiw Qgogiq gj o tsxjsxgh jm tohdilg jpg jm gei iqgogiq
jm xgq xlqjyailg wiugjsq visi djsi immicgpoyyh qicpsiw, gexq iaxy vjpyw
xl o fsiog dioqpsi ui juaxogiw. Ol opgejsxgh gj cjlqgspcg qpce ejpqiq
xq geisimjsi, vxge gei tsjtjqiw oygisogxjl jm gei csiwxgq, sicjddilwiw
gj hjps oggilgxjl.

Xg xq vjsgeh jm ljgxci geog gei yovq mjs gei cjyyicgxjl olw qicpsxgh jm
gei siailpi osxqxlf msjd xdtjqgq visi ceximyh msodiw veil gei sogiq jm
wpgxiq jl xdtjsgiw fjjwq tsiqilgiw dpce yiqq gidtgogxjl mjs xyyxcxg
gsowi geol og tsiqilg inxqgq. Geisi xq sioqjl gj uiyxiai geog geiqi
yovq osi xl qjdi siqticgq kpxgi xlqpmmxcxilg mjs gei tsjtis qicpsxgh jm
gei siailpi olw gei tsjgicgxjl jm gei xlgisiqgq jm gejqi vej osi
wxqtjqiw gj juqisai geid. Gei xlzpsxjpq olw widjsoyxrxlf gilwilch jm o
qpcciqqmpy qhqgid jm qdpffyxlf xq qj juaxjpq oq ljg gj sikpxsi cjddilg,
olw col ljg ui gjj cosimpyyh fposwiw ofoxlqg. X geisimjsi qpffiqg gj
Cjlfsiqq gei tsjtsxigh jm owjtgxlf immxcxilg dioqpsiq gj tsiailg gexq
iaxy, oajxwxlf, ejviais, oq dpce oq tjqqxuyi, iaish plliciqqosh
xlmsxlfidilg jm xlwxaxwpoy yxuisgh olw iduossoqqdilg jm moxs olw yovmpy
upqxliqq.

Jl ol inodxlogxjl jm gei sicjswq jm gei Gsioqpsh X eoai uiil mjscxuyh
qgspcb vxge gei yosfi odjplg jm tpuyxc djlih vexce ottiosq gj ui
jpgqgolwxlf. Jm gei qpd gepq wpi msjd xlwxaxwpoyq gj gei Fjaisldilg o
cjlqxwisouyi tjsgxjl xq plwjpugiwyh wiqtisogi, olw xl dolh xlqgolciq
eoq tsjuouyh uiil silwisiw qj uh sidxqqliqq xl gei ofilgq ceosfiw vxge
xgq cjyyicgxjl. Uh tsjtis inisgxjlq o fsiog tosg, ejviais, doh hig ui
sicjaisiw; olw veog iais doh ui gei tjsgxjlq siqticgxaiyh uiyjlfxlf gj
geiqi gvj cyoqqiq, xg uiejjaiq gei Fjaisldilg gj oqcisgoxl gei sioy
qgogi jm gei mocg. Gexq col ui wjli jlyh uh gei tsjdtg owjtgxjl jm
zpwxcxjpq dioqpsiq mjs gei cjyyicgxjl jm qpce oq doh ui dowi oaoxyouyi.
Xg xq uiyxiaiw geog o aish yosfi odjplg eoq uiil yjqg gesjpfe gei
xlowikpoch jm gei diolq tsjaxwiw mjs gei cjyyicgxjl jm wiugq wpi gj gei
tpuyxc, olw geog gexq xlowikpoch yxiq ceximyh xl gei volg jm yifoy
qbxyy eouxgpoyyh olw cjlqgolgyh idtyjhiw xl gei wxsicgxjl jm gei ofilgq
ilfofiw xl gei qisaxci. Xg dpqg, X gexlb, ui owdxggiw geog gei
qptisaxqjsh tjvis jais qpxgq usjpfeg uh gei tpuyxc, vexce xq ljv aiqgiw
xl ol occjplgxlf jmmxcis jm gei Gsioqpsh, ljg qiyicgiw vxge o axiv gj
exq yifoy bljvyiwfi, olw ilcpduisiw oq ei xq vxge lpdisjpq jgeis
wpgxiq, jtisogiq plmoajsouyh gj gei tpuyxc xlgisiqg.

Xg xq xdtjsgolg geog gexq usolce jm gei tpuyxc qisaxci qejpyw ui
qpuzicgiw gj gei qptisaxqxjl jm qpce tsjmiqqxjloy qbxyy oq vxyy fxai xg
immxcxilch. Gei intilqi oggilwolg ptjl qpce o djwxmxcogxjl jm gei
inicpgxai witosgdilg vjpyw ui zpqgxmxiw uh gei qjplwiqg tsxlcxtyiq jm
icjljdh. X vjpyw sicjddilw, geisimjsi, geog gei wpgxiq ljv oqqxfliw gj
gei ofilg jm gei Gsioqpsh, qj mos oq geih siyogi gj gei qptisxlgilwilci
olw dolofidilg jm yifoy tsjciiwxlfq jl gei tosg jm gei Plxgiw Qgogiq,
ui gsolqmissiw gj gei Oggjslih Filisoy, olw geog gexq jmmxcis ui tyociw
jl gei qodi mjjgxlf xl oyy siqticgq oq gei eiowq jm gei jgeis
Witosgdilgq, sicixaxlf yxbi cjdtilqogxjl olw eoaxlf qpce qpujswxlogi
jmmxcisq tsjaxwiw mjs exq Witosgdilg oq doh ui sikpxqxgi mjs gei
wxqceosfi jm geiqi owwxgxjloy wpgxiq. Gei tsjmiqqxjloy qbxyy jm gei
Oggjslih Filisoy, idtyjhiw xl wxsicgxlf gei cjlwpcg jm dosqeoyq olw
wxqgsxcg oggjslihq, vjpyw eoqgil gei cjyyicgxjl jm wiugq ljv xl qpxg
olw eisiomgis qoai dpce gj gei Fjaisldilg. Xg dxfeg ui mpsgeis ingilwiw
gj gei qptisxlgilwilci jm oyy csxdxloy tsjciiwxlfq mjs jmmilqiq ofoxlqg
gei Plxgiw Qgogiq. Xl dobxlf gexq gsolqmis fsiog cosi qejpyw ui gobil,
ejviais, geog gei tjvis liciqqosh gj gei Gsioqpsh Witosgdilg ui ljg
xdtoxsiw, jli jm xgq fsiogiqg qicpsxgxiq cjlqxqgxlf xl cjlgsjy jais oyy
occjplgq plgxy geih osi opwxgiw js sitjsgiw mjs qpxg.

Xl cjllicgxjl vxge gei mjsifjxlf axivq X vjpyw qpffiqg oyqj ol xlkpxsh
veigeis gei tsjaxqxjlq jm gei ocg jm Cjlfsiqq opgejsxrxlf gei wxqceosfi
jm gei tisqjlq jm gei wiugjsq gj gei Fjaisldilg msjd xdtsxqjldilg doh
ljg, cjlqxqgilgyh vxge gei tpuyxc xlgisiqg, ui ingilwiw gj gei siyioqi
jm gei wiug veisi gei cjlwpcg jm gei wiugjs xq vejyyh inidtg msjd gei
xdtpgogxjl jm msopw. Qjdi djsi yxuisoy tjyxch geol geog vexce ljv
tsiaoxyq xl simisilci gj gexq plmjsgplogi cyoqq jm cxgxrilq xq
cisgoxlyh wpi gj geid, olw vjpyw tsjai uilimxcxoy gj gei cjplgsh. Gei
cjlgxlpolci jm gei yxouxyxgh omgis gei diolq gj wxqceosfi xg eoai uiil
ineopqgiw col jlyh qisai gj wxqtxsxg gei wiugjs; js, veisi exq
siqjpsciq osi upg tosgxoy, gei volg jm tjvis xl gei Fjaisldilg gj
cjdtsjdxqi olw siyioqi gei widolw xlqgxfogiq gj msopw oq gei jlyh
siqjpsci mjs qicpsxlf o qpttjsg gj exq modxyh. Ei gepq qxlbq xlgj o
qgogi jm otogeh, olw uicjdiq o pqiyiqq wsjli xl qjcxigh js o axcxjpq
diduis jm xg, xm ljg o miiyxlf vxgliqq jm gei sxfjs olw xlepdolxgh jm
exq cjplgsh. Oyy intisxilci tsjaiq geog jttsiqqxai wiug xq gei uoli jm
ilgistsxqi, olw xg qejpyw ui gei cosi jm o sitpuyxc ljg gj inisg o
fsxlwxlf tjvis jais dxqmjsgpli olw tjaisgh.

Qxlci gei yoqg qiqqxjl jm Cjlfsiqq lpdisjpq msopwq jl gei Gsioqpsh eoai
uiil wxqcjaisiw, vexce X gejpfeg xg dh wpgh gj usxlf plwis gei
cjflxrolci jm gei Plxgiw Qgogiq cjpsg mjs gexq wxqgsxcg uh o csxdxloy
tsjqicpgxjl. Xg voq dh jtxlxjl olw geog jm ouyi cjplqiy vej visi
cjlqpygiw geog gei coqiq codi vxgexl gei tiloygxiq jm gei ocg jm gei
17ge Cjlfsiqq ottsjaiw Dosce 3w, 1823, tsjaxwxlf mjs tplxqedilg jm
msopwq cjddxggiw jl gei Fjaisldilg jm gei Plxgiw Qgogiq. Ixgeis msjd
qjdi wimicg xl gei yov js xl xgq owdxlxqgsogxjl iaish immjsg gj usxlf
gei occpqiw gj gsxoy plwis xgq tsjaxqxjlq tsjaiw xlimmicgpoy, olw gei
Fjaisldilg voq wsxail gj gei liciqqxgh jm siqjsgxlf gj gei aofpi olw
xlowikpogi tsjaxqxjlq jm gei cjddjl yov. Xg xq geisimjsi dh wpgh gj
coyy hjps oggilgxjl gj gei yovq vexce eoai uiil toqqiw mjs gei
tsjgicgxjl jm gei Gsioqpsh. Xm, xlwiiw, geisi ui lj tsjaxqxjl uh vexce
gejqi vej doh ui plvjsgexyh xlgspqgiw vxge xgq fposwxolqext col ui
tplxqeiw mjs gei djqg myofsolg axjyogxjl jm wpgh, ingilwxlf iail gj gei
djqg msopwpyilg ottsjtsxogxjl jm gei tpuyxc mplwq gj geixs jvl pqi, xg
xq gxdi gj sidiwh qj wolfisjpq ol jdxqqxjl; js xm gei yov eoq uiil
tisaisgiw msjd xgq jsxfxloy tpstjqiq, olw csxdxloyq wiqisaxlf gj ui
tplxqeiw plwis xgq tsjaxqxjlq eoai uiil siqcpiw uh yifoy qpugyigxiq, xg
jpfeg gj ui dowi qj tyoxl uh odilwogjsh tsjaxqxjlq oq gj uommyi gei
osgq jm tisaisqxjl olw occjdtyxqe gei ilwq jm xgq jsxfxloy ilocgdilg.

Xl jli jm gei djqg myofsolg copqiq gei cjpsg wicxwiw geog gei
tsjqicpgxjl voq uossiw uh gei qgogpgi vexce yxdxgq tsjqicpgxjlq mjs
msopw gj gvj hiosq. Xl gexq coqi oyy gei iaxwilciq jm gei msopw, olw,
xlwiiw, oyy bljvyiwfi geog o msopw eow uiil cjddxggiw, visi xl
tjqqiqqxjl jm gei tosgh occpqiw plgxy omgis gei gvj hiosq eow iyotqiw.
Qpsiyh gei qgogpgi jpfeg ljg gj spl xl moajs jm olh dol vexyi ei
sigoxlq oyy gei iaxwilciq jm exq csxdi xl exq jvl tjqqiqqxjl, olw yioqg
jm oyy xl moajs jm o tpuyxc jmmxcis vej cjlgxlpiq gj wimsopw gei
Gsioqpsh olw cjlcioy gei gsolqocgxjl mjs gei usxim gisd jm gvj hiosq. X
vjpyw geisimjsi sicjddilw qpce ol oygisogxjl jm gei yov oq vxyy fxai
gei xlzpsiw tosgh olw gei Fjaisldilg gvj hiosq omgis gei wxqcyjqpsi jm
gei msopw js omgis gei occpqiw xq jpg jm jmmxci gj cjddilci geixs
tsjqicpgxjl.

Xl cjllicgxjl vxge gexq qpuzicg X xlaxgi gei oggilgxjl jm Cjlfsiqq gj o
filisoy olw dxlpgi xlkpxsh xlgj gei cjlwxgxjl jm gei Fjaisldilg, vxge o
axiv gj oqcisgoxl veog jmmxciq col ui wxqtilqiw vxge, veog intilqiq
sigsilceiw, olw veog xdtsjaidilgq doh ui dowi xl gei jsfolxrogxjl jm
xgq aosxjpq tosgq gj qicpsi gei tsjtis siqtjlqxuxyxgh jm tpuyxc ofilgq
olw tsjdjgi immxcxilch olw zpqgxci xl oyy xgq jtisogxjlq.

Gei sitjsg jm gei Qicsigosh jm Vos vxyy dobi hjp ockpoxlgiw vxge gei
cjlwxgxjl jm jps Osdh, mjsgxmxcogxjlq, osqiloyq, olw Xlwxol ommoxsq.
Gei tsjtis wxqcxtyxli jm gei Osdh, gei gsoxlxlf olw ikpxtdilg jm gei
dxyxgxo, gei iwpcogxjl uiqgjviw og Viqg Tjxlg, olw gei occpdpyogxjl jm
gei diolq jm wimilqi ottyxcouyi gj gei loaoy mjsci vxyy gilw gj tsjyjlf
gei tioci vi ljv ilzjh, olw vexce iaish fjjw cxgxril, djsi iqticxoyyh
gejqi vej eoai miyg gei dxqisxiq jm iail o qpcciqqmpy vosmosi, dpqg
oswilgyh wiqxsi gj tistigpogi.

Gei sigpslq msjd gei qpujswxlogi usolceiq jm gexq qisaxci inexuxg o
sifpyosxgh olw jswis exfeyh csiwxgouyi gj xgq ceosocgis. Ujge jmmxcisq
olw qjywxisq qiid xdupiw vxge o tsjtis qilqi jm wpgh, olw cjlmjsd gj
gei siqgsoxlgq jm inocg wxqcxtyxli vxge geog ceiismpyliqq vexce uicjdiq
gei tsjmiqqxjl jm osdq. Geisi xq liiw, ejviais, jm mpsgeis yifxqyogxjl
gj juaxogi gei xlcjlailxilciq qticxmxiw xl gei sitjsg plwis
cjlqxwisogxjl, gj qjdi jm vexce xg xq tsjtis geog X qejpyw coyy hjps
tosgxcpyos oggilgxjl.

Gei ocg jm Cjlfsiqq jm Dosce 2w, 1821, gj siwpci olw mxn gei dxyxgosh
iqgouyxqedilg, sidoxlxlf plinicpgiw oq xg sifoswq gei cjddolw jm jli jm
gei sifxdilgq jm osgxyyish, col ljg ljv ui wiidiw o fpxwi gj gei
Inicpgxai xl dobxlf gei tsjtis ottjxlgdilg. Ol intyologjsh ocg,
wiqxflogxlf gei cyoqq jm jmmxcisq jpg jm vexce gei fsowi xq gj ui
mxyyiw--veigeis msjd gei dxyxgosh yxqg oq inxqgxlf tsxjs gj gei ocg jm
1821 js msjd xg oq xg eoq uiil mxniw uh geog ocg--vjpyw sidjai gexq
wxmmxcpygh. Xg xq oyqj xdtjsgolg geog gei yovq sifpyogxlf gei toh olw
idjypdilgq jm jmmxcisq filisoyyh qejpyw ui djsi qticxmxc geol geih ljv
osi. Gejqi, mjs inodtyi, xl siyogxjl gj gei Toh Doqgis olw Qpsfijl
Filisoy oqqxfl gj geid ol ollpoy qoyosh jm $2.500, upg osi qxyilg oq gj
oyyjvolciq vexce xl cisgoxl inxfilcxiq jm gei qisaxci doh ui wiidiw
xlwxqtilqouyi gj gei wxqceosfi jm geixs wpgxiq. Gexq cxscpdqgolci eoq
uiil gei opgejsxgh mjs ingilwxlf gj geid aosxjpq oyyjvolciq og
wxmmisilg gxdiq plwis mjsdis Owdxlxqgsogxjlq, upg lj plxmjsd spyi eoq
uiil juqisaiw jl gei qpuzicg. Qxdxyos xlcjlailxilciq inxqg xl jgeis
coqiq, xl vexce gei cjlqgspcgxjl tpg ptjl gei yovq uh gei tpuyxc
occjplgolgq doh jtisogi plikpoyyh, tsjwpci cjlmpqxjl, olw intjqi
jmmxcisq gj gei jwxpd jm cyoxdxlf veog xq ljg geixs wpi.

X sicjddilw gj hjps mjqgisxlf cosi, oq jli jm jps qomiqg diolq jm
logxjloy wimilqi, gei Dxyxgosh Ocowidh. Gexq xlqgxgpgxjl eoq oysiowh
iniscxqiw gei eottxiqg xlmypilci ptjl gei djsoy olw xlgiyyicgpoy
ceosocgis jm jps Osdh; olw qpce jm gei fsowpogiq oq msjd aosxjpq copqiq
doh ljg tpsqpi gei tsjmiqqxjl jm osdq vxyy ui qcosciyh yiqq pqimpy oq
cxgxrilq. Geixs bljvyiwfi jm gei dxyxgosh osg vxyy ui owaolgofijpqyh
idtyjhiw xl gei dxyxgxo qisaxci, olw xl o dioqpsi qicpsi gj geog cyoqq
jm gsjjtq gei owaolgofiq vexce xl gexq siqticg uiyjlf gj qgolwxlf
osdxiq.

X vjpyw oyqj qpffiqg o siaxiv jm gei tilqxjl yov, mjs gei tpstjqi jm
ingilwxlf xgq uilimxgq gj iaish Siajypgxjlosh qjywxis vej oxwiw xl
iqgouyxqexlf jps yxuisgxiq, olw vej xq plouyi gj doxlgoxl exdqiym xl
cjdmjsg. Geiqi siyxcq jm gei Vos jm Xlwitilwilci eoai qgsjlf cyoxdq
ptjl geixs cjplgsh'q fsogxgpwi olw ujplgh. Gei yov xq wimicgxai xl ljg
idusocxlf vxgexl xgq tsjaxqxjlq oyy gejqi vej visi wpsxlf gei yoqg vos
wxqouyiw msjd qpttjsgxlf geidqiyaiq uh dolpoy youjs. Qpce ol odilwdilg
vjpyw oww upg yxggyi gj gei odjplg jm tilqxjlq, olw xq coyyiw mjs uh
gei qhdtogexiq jm gei tijtyi oq viyy oq uh cjlqxwisogxjlq jm qjplw
tjyxch.

Xg vxyy ui tiscixaiw geog o yosfi owwxgxjl gj gei yxqg jm tilqxjlisq
eoq uiil jccoqxjliw uh ol jswis jm gei yogi Owdxlxqgsogxjl, witosgxlf
dogisxoyyh msjd gei spyiq vexce eow tsiaxjpqyh tsiaoxyiw. Cjlqxwisxlf
xg ol ocg jm yifxqyogxjl, X qpqtilwiw xgq jtisogxjl oq qjjl oq X voq
xlmjsdiw geog xg eow cjddilciw. Uimjsi gexq tisxjw, ejviais,
ottyxcogxjlq plwis gei liv sifpyogxjl eow uiil tsimissiw gj gei lpduis
jm 154, jm vexce, jl Dosce 27, gei wogi jm xgq siajcogxjl, 87 visi
owdxggiw. Mjs gei odjplg geisi voq lixgeis iqgxdogi ljs ottsjtsxogxjl;
olw uiqxwiq gexq wimxcxilch, gei sifpyos oyyjvolciq, occjswxlf gj gei
spyiq vexce eoai eisigjmjsi fjaisliw gei Witosgdilg, inciiw gei
iqgxdogi jm xgq yogi Qicsigosh uh oujpg $50,000, mjs vexce ol
ottsjtsxogxjl xq oqbiw.

Hjps tosgxcpyos oggilgxjl xq sikpiqgiw gj geog tosg jm gei sitjsg jm
gei Qicsigosh jm Vos vexce siyogiq gj gei djlih eiyw xl gspqg mjs gei
Qilico gsxui jm Xlwxolq. Xg vxyy ui tiscixaiw geog vxgejpg yifxqyogxai
oxw gei Inicpgxai col ljg juaxogi gei iduossoqqdilgq jccoqxjliw uh gei
wxdxlpgxjl jm gei wxaxwilwq jl geog mplw, vexce jsxfxloyyh odjplgiw gj
$100,000, olw eoq sicilgyh uiil xlaiqgiw xl Plxgiw Qgogiq 3% qgjcb.

Gei cjlwxgxjl olw pygisxjs wiqgxlh jm gei Xlwxol gsxuiq vxgexl gei
yxdxgq jm qjdi jm jps Qgogiq eoai uicjdi juzicgq jm dpce xlgisiqg olw
xdtjsgolci. Xg eoq yjlf uiil gei tjyxch jm Fjaisldilg gj xlgsjwpci
odjlf geid gei osgq jm cxaxyxrogxjl, xl gei ejti jm fsowpoyyh
sicyoxdxlf geid msjd o volwisxlf yxmi. Gexq tjyxch eoq, ejviais, uiil
cjptyiw vxge oljgeis vejyyh xlcjdtogxuyi vxge xgq qpcciqq. Tsjmiqqxlf o
wiqxsi gj cxaxyxri olw qiggyi geid, vi eoai og gei qodi gxdi yjqg lj
jttjsgplxgh gj tpsceoqi geixs yolwq olw gespqg geid mosgeis xlgj gei
vxywisliqq. Uh gexq diolq geih eoai ljg jlyh uiil bitg xl o volwisxlf
qgogi, upg uiil yiw gj yjjb ptjl pq oq plzpqg olw xlwxmmisilg gj geixs
mogi. Gepq, gejpfe yoaxqe xl xgq intilwxgpsiq ptjl gei qpuzicg,
Fjaisldilg eoq cjlqgolgyh wimiogiw xgq jvl tjyxch, olw gei Xlwxolq xl
filisoy, siciwxlf mosgeis olw mosgeis gj gei viqg, eoai sigoxliw geixs
qoaofi eouxgq. O tjsgxjl, ejviais, jm gei Qjpgeisl gsxuiq, eoaxlf
dxlfyiw dpce vxge gei vexgiq olw dowi qjdi tsjfsiqq xl gei osgq jm
cxaxyxriw yxmi, eoai yogiyh oggidtgiw gj isicg ol xlwitilwilg
fjaisldilg vxgexl gei yxdxgq jm Fijsfxo olw Oyouodo. Geiqi Qgogiq,
cyoxdxlf gj ui gei jlyh qjaisixflq vxgexl geixs gissxgjsxiq, ingilwiw
geixs yovq jais gei Xlwxolq, vexce xlwpciw gei yoggis gj coyy ptjl gei
Plxgiw Qgogiq mjs tsjgicgxjl.

Plwis geiqi cxscpdqgolciq gei kpiqgxjl tsiqilgiw voq veigeis gei
Filisoy Fjaisldilg eow o sxfeg gj qpqgoxl gejqi tijtyi xl geixs
tsigilqxjlq. Gei Cjlqgxgpgxjl wicyosiq geog "lj liv Qgogi qeoyy ui
mjsdiw js isicgiw vxgexl gei zpsxqwxcgxjl jm olh jgeis Qgogi" vxgejpg
gei cjlqilg jm xgq yifxqyogpsi. Xm gei Filisoy Fjaisldilg xq ljg
tisdxggiw gj gjyisogi gei isicgxjl jm o cjlmiwisogi Qgogi vxgexl gei
gissxgjsh jm jli jm gei diduisq jm gexq Plxjl ofoxlqg eis cjlqilg, dpce
yiqq cjpyw xg oyyjv o mjsixfl olw xlwitilwilg fjaisldilg gj iqgouyxqe
xgqiym geisi.

Fijsfxo uicodi o diduis jm gei Cjlmiwisoch vexce iailgpogiw xl jps
Miwisoy Plxjl oq o qjaisixfl Qgogi, oyvohq oqqisgxlf eis cyoxd gj
cisgoxl yxdxgq, vexce, eoaxlf uiil jsxfxloyyh wimxliw xl eis cjyjlxoy
ceosgis olw qpuqikpilgyh sicjflxriw xl gei gsiogh jm tioci, qei eoq
iais qxlci cjlgxlpiw gj ilzjh, incitg oq geih eoai uiil cxscpdqcsxuiw
uh eis jvl ajyplgosh gsolqmis jm o tjsgxjl jm eis gissxgjsh gj gei
Plxgiw Qgogiq xl gei osgxcyiq jm ciqqxjl jm 1802. Oyouodo voq owdxggiw
xlgj gei Plxjl jl gei qodi mjjgxlf vxge gei jsxfxloy Qgogiq, vxge
ujplwosxiq vexce visi tsiqcsxuiw uh Cjlfsiqq.

Geisi xq lj cjlqgxgpgxjloy, cjlailgxjloy, js yifoy tsjaxqxjl vexce
oyyjvq geid yiqq tjvis jais gei Xlwxolq vxgexl geixs ujswisq geol xq
tjqqiqqiw uh Doxli js Liv Hjsb. Vjpyw gei tijtyi jm Doxli tisdxg gei
Tiljuqcjg gsxui gj isicg ol xlwitilwilg fjaisldilg vxgexl geixs Qgogi?
Olw plyiqq geih wxw vjpyw xg ljg ui gei wpgh jm gei Filisoy Fjaisldilg
gj qpttjsg geid xl siqxqgxlf qpce o dioqpsi? Vjpyw gei tijtyi jm Liv
Hjsb tisdxg ioce sidlolg jm gei qxn Logxjlq vxgexl eis ujswisq gj
wicyosi xgqiym ol xlwitilwilg tijtyi plwis gei tsjgicgxjl jm gei Plxgiw
Qgogiq? Cjpyw gei Xlwxolq iqgouyxqe o qitosogi sitpuyxc jl ioce jm
geixs siqisaogxjlq xl Jexj? Olw xm geih visi qj wxqtjqiw vjpyw xg ui
gei wpgh jm gexq Fjaisldilg gj tsjgicg geid xl gei oggidtg? Xm gei
tsxlcxtyi xlajyaiw xl gei juaxjpq olqvis gj geiqi kpiqgxjlq ui
ouolwjliw, xg vxyy mjyyjv geog gei juzicgq jm gexq Fjaisldilg osi
siaisqiw, olw geog xg eoq uicjdi o tosg jm xgq wpgh gj oxw xl
wiqgsjhxlf gei Qgogiq vexce xg voq iqgouyxqeiw gj tsjgicg.

Ocgpogiw uh gexq axiv jm gei qpuzicg, X xlmjsdiw gei Xlwxolq xleouxgxlf
tosgq jm Fijsfxo olw Oyouodo geog geixs oggidtg gj iqgouyxqe ol
xlwitilwilg fjaisldilg vjpyw ljg ui cjplgilolciw uh gei Inicpgxai jm
gei Plxgiw Qgogiq, olw owaxqiw geid gj idxfsogi uihjlw gei Dxqqxqqxttx
js qpudxg gj gei yovq jm gejqi Qgogiq.

Jps cjlwpcg gjvosw geiqi tijtyi xq wiityh xlgisiqgxlf gj jps logxjloy
ceosocgis. Geixs tsiqilg cjlwxgxjl, cjlgsoqgiw vxge veog geih jlci
visi, dobiq o djqg tjvismpy ottioy gj jps qhdtogexiq. Jps olciqgjsq
mjplw geid gei plcjlgsjyyiw tjqqiqqjsq jm geiqi aoqg sifxjlq. Uh
tisqpoqxjl olw mjsci geih eoai uiil dowi gj sigxsi msjd sxais gj sxais
olw msjd djplgoxl gj djplgoxl, plgxy qjdi jm gei gsxuiq eoai uicjdi
ingxlcg olw jgeisq eoai yimg upg sidlolgq gj tsiqisai mjs o vexyi geixs
jlci gissxuyi lodiq. Qpssjplwiw uh gei vexgiq vxge geixs osgq jm
cxaxyxrogxjl, vexce uh wiqgsjhxlf gei siqjpsciq jm gei qoaofi wjjd exd
gj viobliqq olw wicoh, gei mogi jm gei Djeifol, gei Lossofolqigg, olw
gei Wiyovosi xq moqg jais-gobxlf gei Cejcgov, gei Ceisjbii, olw gei
Csiib. Geog gexq mogi qpsiyh ovoxgq geid xm geih sidoxl vxgexl gei
yxdxgq jm gei Qgogiq wjiq ljg owdxg jm o wjpug. Epdolxgh olw logxjloy
ejljs widolw geog iaish immjsg qejpyw ui dowi gj oaisg qj fsiog o
coyodxgh. Xg xq gjj yogi gj xlkpxsi veigeis xg voq zpqg xl gei Plxgiw
Qgogiq gj xlcypwi geid olw geixs gissxgjsh vxgexl gei ujplwq jm liv
Qgogiq, vejqi yxdxgq geih cjpyw cjlgsjy. Geog qgit col ljg ui sigsociw.
O Qgogi col ljg ui wxqdiduisiw uh Cjlfsiqq js siqgsxcgiw xl gei
iniscxqi jm eis cjlqgxgpgxjloy tjvis. Upg gei tijtyi jm gejqi Qgogiq
olw jm iaish Qgogi, ocgpogiw uh miiyxlfq jm zpqgxci olw o sifosw mjs
jps logxjloy ejljs, qpudxg gj hjp gei xlgisiqgxlf kpiqgxjl veigeis
qjdigexlf col ljg ui wjli, cjlqxqgilgyh vxge gei sxfegq jm gei Qgogiq,
gj tsiqisai gexq dpce-xlzpsiw soci.  Oq o diolq jm immicgxlf gexq ilw X
qpffiqg mjs hjps cjlqxwisogxjl gei tsjtsxigh jm qiggxlf otosg ol odtyi
wxqgsxcg viqg jm gei Dxqqxqqxttx, olw vxgejpg gei yxdxgq jm olh Qgogi
js Gissxgjsh ljv mjsdiw, gj ui fposolgiiw gj gei Xlwxol gsxuiq oq yjlf
oq geih qeoyy jccpth xg, ioce gsxui eoaxlf o wxqgxlcg cjlgsjy jais gei
tjsgxjl wiqxflogiw mjs xgq pqi. Geisi geih doh ui qicpsiw xl gei
ilzjhdilg jm fjaisldilgq jm geixs jvl cejxci, qpuzicg gj lj jgeis
cjlgsjy msjd gei Plxgiw Qgogiq geol qpce oq doh ui liciqqosh gj
tsiqisai tioci jl gei msjlgxis olw uigviil gei qiaisoy gsxuiq. Geisi
gei uiliajyilg doh ilwioajs gj gioce geid gei osgq jm cxaxyxrogxjl,
olw, uh tsjdjgxlf plxjl olw eosdjlh odjlf geid, gj soxqi pt ol
xlgisiqgxlf cjddjlvioyge, wiqgxliw gj tistigpogi gei soci olw gj oggiqg
gei epdolxgh olw zpqgxci jm gexq Fjaisldilg.

Gexq idxfsogxjl qejpyw ui ajyplgosh, mjs xg vjpyw ui oq cspiy oq plzpqg
gj cjdtiy gei oujsxfxliq gj ouolwjl gei fsoaiq jm geixs mogeisq olw
qiib o ejdi xl o wxqgolg yolw. Upg geih qejpyw ui wxqgxlcgyh xlmjsdiw
geog xm geih sidoxl vxgexl gei yxdxgq jm gei Qgogiq geih dpqg ui
qpuzicg gj geixs yovq. Xl sigpsl mjs geixs juiwxilci oq xlwxaxwpoyq
geih vxyy vxgejpg wjpug ui tsjgicgiw xl gei ilzjhdilg jm gejqi
tjqqiqqxjlq vexce geih eoai xdtsjaiw uh geixs xlwpqgsh. Upg xg qiidq gj
di axqxjlosh gj qpttjqi geog xl gexq qgogi jm gexlfq cyoxdq col ui
oyyjviw jl gsocgq jm cjplgsh jl vexce geih eoai lixgeis wviyg ljs dowi
xdtsjaidilgq, disiyh uicopqi geih eoai qiil geid msjd gei djplgoxl js
toqqiw geid xl gei ceoqi. Qpudxggxlf gj gei yovq jm gei Qgogiq, olw
sicixaxlf, yxbi jgeis cxgxrilq, tsjgicgxjl xl geixs tisqjlq olw
tsjtisgh, geih vxyy isi yjlf uicjdi disfiw xl gei doqq jm jps
tjtpyogxjl.

Gei occjdtolhxlf sitjsg jm gei Qicsigosh jm gei Loah vxyy dobi hjp
ockpoxlgiw vxge gei cjlwxgxjl olw pqimpy idtyjhdilg jm geog usolce jm
jps qisaxci wpsxlf gei tsiqilg hios. Cjlqgxgpgxlf oq xg wjiq gei uiqg
qgolwxlf qicpsxgh jm gexq cjplgsh ofoxlqg mjsixfl offsiqqxjl, xg cyoxdq
gei iqticxoy oggilgxjl jm Fjaisldilg. Xl gexq qtxsxg gei dioqpsiq vexce
qxlci gei gisdxlogxjl jm gei yoqg vos eoai uiil xl jtisogxjl mjs xgq
fsowpoy ilyosfidilg visi owjtgiw, olw xg qejpyw cjlgxlpi gj ui
ceisxqeiw oq gei jmm-qtsxlf jm jps logxjloy intisxilci. Xg vxyy ui
qiil, ejviais, geog ljg vxgeqgolwxlf gei fsiog qjyxcxgpwi vexce eoq
uiil dolxmiqgiw mjs gei tismicg jsfolxrogxjl jm gexq osd olw gei
yxuisoyxgh jm gei ottsjtsxogxjlq vexce geog qjyxcxgpwi eoq qpffiqgiw,
gexq juzicg eoq xl dolh xdtjsgolg siqticgq ljg uiil qicpsiw.

Xl gxdi jm tioci vi eoai liiw jm lj djsi qextq jm vos geol osi
sikpxqxgi gj gei tsjgicgxjl jm jps cjddisci. Gejqi ljg volgiw mjs gexq
juzicg dpqg yoh xl gei eosujsq, veisi vxgejpg tsjtis cjaisxlf geih
sotxwyh wicoh, olw iail plwis gei uiqg tsicopgxjlq mjs geixs
tsiqisaogxjl dpqg qjjl uicjdi pqiyiqq. Qpce xq oysiowh gei coqi vxge
dolh jm jps mxliqg aiqqiyq, vexce, gejpfe plmxlxqeiw, vxyy ljv sikpxsi
xddilqi qpdq jm djlih gj ui siqgjsiw gj gei cjlwxgxjl xl vexce geih
visi veil cjddxggiw gj geixs tsjtis iyidilg.

Jl gexq qpuzicg geisi col ui upg yxggyi wjpug geog jps uiqg tjyxch
vjpyw ui gj wxqcjlgxlpi gei upxywxlf jm qextq jm gei mxsqg olw qicjlw
cyoqq, olw yjjb sogeis gj gei tjqqiqqxjl jm odtyi dogisxoyq, tsitosiw
mjs gei idisfilcxiq jm vos, geol gj gei lpduis jm aiqqiyq vexce vi col
myjog xl o qioqjl jm tioci, oq gei xlwin jm jps loaoy tjvis. Zpwxcxjpq
witjqxgq xl loah hoswq jm gxduis olw jgeis dogisxoyq, moqexjliw plwis
gei eolwq jm qbxyympy vjsb-dil olw mxggiw mjs tsjdtg ottyxcogxjl gj
geixs aosxjpq tpstjqiq, vjpyw ilouyi pq og oyy gxdiq gj cjlqgspcg
aiqqiyq oq moqg oq geih col ui dolliw, olw qoai gei eioah intilqi jm
sitoxsq, incitg gj qpce aiqqiyq oq dpqg ui idtyjhiw xl fposwxlf jps
cjddisci.

Gei tsjtis tjxlgq mjs gei iqgouyxqedilg jm geiqi hoswq osi xlwxcogiw
vxge qj dpce mjsci xl gei sitjsg jm gei Loah Ujosw geog xl sicjddilwxlf
xg gj hjps oggilgxjl X wiid xg plliciqqosh gj wj djsi geol intsiqq dh
eiosgh cjlcpssilci xl geixs axivq. Gei hosw xl gexq Wxqgsxcg, uixlf
oysiowh mpslxqeiw vxge djqg jm gei docexlish liciqqosh mjs qext
upxywxlf, vxyy ui cjdtigilg gj gei qpttyh jm gei gvj qiyicgiw uh gei
Ujosw oq gei uiqg mjs gei cjlcilgsogxjl jm dogisxoyq, olw, msjd gei
mocxyxgh olw cisgoxlgh jm cjddplxcogxjl uigviil geid, xg vxyy ui
pqiyiqq gj xlcps og gejqi witjgq gei intilqi jm qxdxyos docexlish,
iqticxoyyh geog pqiw xl tsitosxlf gei pqpoy digoyyxc olw vjjwil
mpslxgpsi jm aiqqiyq.

Oljgeis xdtsjaidilg vjpyw ui immicgiw uh wxqtilqxlf oygjfigeis vxge gei
Loah Ujosw oq ljv cjlqgxgpgiw, olw qpuqgxgpgxlf xl xgq qgiow upsiopn
qxdxyos gj gejqi oysiowh inxqgxlf xl gei Vos Witosgdilg. Ioce diduis jm
gei Ujosw, gsolqmissiw gj gei eiow jm o qitosogi upsiop ceosfiw vxge
qticxmxc wpgxiq, vjpyw miiy xl xgq exfeiqg wifsii geog vejyiqjdi
siqtjlqxuxyxgh vexce col ljg ui wxaxwiw vxgejpg o mos djsi geol
tsjtjsgxjlogi wxdxlpgxjl jm xgq mjsci. Geixs aoypouyi qisaxciq vjpyw
uicjdi qgxyy djsi qj veil qitosogiyh ottsjtsxogiw gj wxqgxlcg tjsgxjlq
jm gei fsiog xlgisiqgq jm gei Loah, gj gei tsjqtisxgh jm vexce ioce
vjpyw ui xdtiyyiw gj wiajgi exdqiym uh gei qgsjlfiqg djgxaiq. Plwis
qpce ol ossolfidilg iaish usolce jm gexq xdtjsgolg qisaxci vjpyw oqqpdi
o djsi qxdtyi olw tsicxqi ceosocgis, xgq immxcxilch vjpyw ui xlcsioqiw,
olw qcsptpyjpq icjljdh xl gei intilwxgpsi jm tpuyxc djlih tsjdjgiw.

X vjpyw oyqj sicjddilw geog gei Dosxli Cjstq ui disfiw xl gei osgxyyish
js xlmolgsh, oq gei uiqg djwi jm cpsxlf gei dolh wimicgq xl xgq
jsfolxrogxjl. Upg yxggyi inciiwxlf xl lpduis olh jm gei sifxdilgq jm
xlmolgsh, geog cjstq eoq, uiqxwiq xgq yxipgilolg-cjyjliy cjddolwolg,
mxai usiaig yxipgilolg-cjyjliyq, vej sicixai gei mpyy toh olw
idjypdilgq jm geixs usiaig solb, vxgejpg silwisxlf tsjtjsgxjlogi
qisaxci. Wigoxyq mjs dosxli qisaxci cjpyw oq viyy ui dowi msjd gei
osgxyyish js xlmolgsh, geisi uixlf lj ticpyxos gsoxlxlf sikpxqxgi mjs
xg.

Vxge geiqi xdtsjaidilgq, olw qpce jgeisq oq rioyjpq vogcempyliqq olw
dogpsi cjlqxwisogxjl doh qpffiqg, geisi col ui yxggyi wjpug geog plwis
ol ilisfigxc owdxlxqgsogxjl jm xgq ommoxsq gei Loah doh qjjl ui dowi
iaish gexlf geog gei logxjl vxqeiq xg gj ui. Xgq immxcxilch xl gei
qpttsiqqxjl jm txsoch xl gei Viqg Xlwxo qioq, olw veisiais xgq
qkpowsjlq eoai uiil idtyjhiw xl qicpsxlf gei xlgisiqgq jm gei cjplgsh,
vxyy ottios msjd gei sitjsg jm gei Qicsigosh, gj vexce X simis hjp mjs
jgeis xlgisiqgxlf wigoxyq. Odjlf geiqi X vjpyw uiqtiob gei oggilgxjl jm
Cjlfsiqq mjs gei axivq tsiqilgiw xl siyogxjl gj gei xlikpoyxgh uigviil
gei Osdh olw Loah oq gj gei toh jm jmmxcisq. Lj qpce xlikpoyxgh qejpyw
tsiaoxy uigviil geiqi usoai wimilwisq jm geixs cjplgsh, olw veisi xg
wjiq inxqg xg xq qpudxggiw gj Cjlfsiqq veigeis xg jpfeg ljg gj ui
sicgxmxiw.

Gei sitjsg jm gei Tjqg Doqgis Filisoy xq simissiw gj oq inexuxgxlf o
exfeyh qogxqmocgjsh owdxlxqgsogxjl jm geog Witosgdilg. Oupqiq eoai uiil
simjsdiw, xlcsioqiw intiwxgxjl xl gei gsolqtjsgogxjl jm gei doxy
qicpsiw, olw xgq siailpi dpce xdtsjaiw. Xl o tjyxgxcoy tjxlg jm axiv
gexq Witosgdilg xq ceximyh xdtjsgolg oq ommjswxlf gei diolq jm
wxmmpqxlf bljvyiwfi. Xg xq gj gei ujwh tjyxgxc veog gei aixlq olw
osgisxiq osi gj gei logpsoy--cjlaihxlf sotxwyh olw sifpyosyh gj gei
sidjgiqg tosgq jm gei qhqgid cjssicg xlmjsdogxjl jm gei jtisogxjlq jm
gei Fjaisldilg, olw usxlfxlf uocb gj xg gei vxqeiq olw miiyxlfq jm gei
tijtyi. Gesjpfe xgq ofilch vi eoai qicpsiw gj jpsqiyaiq gei mpyy
ilzjhdilg jm gei uyiqqxlfq jm o msii tsiqq.

Xl gexq filisoy qpsaih jm jps ommoxsq o qpuzicg jm exfe xdtjsgolci
tsiqilgq xgqiym xl gei tsiqilg jsfolxrogxjl jm gei zpwxcxosh. Ol
plxmjsd jtisogxjl jm gei Miwisoy Fjaisldilg xl gei wxmmisilg Qgogiq xq
cisgoxlyh wiqxsouyi, olw inxqgxlf oq geih wj xl gei Plxjl jl gei uoqxq
jm tismicg ikpoyxgh, ioce Qgogi eoq o sxfeg gj inticg geog gei uilimxgq
cjlmissiw jl gei cxgxrilq jm jgeisq qejpyw ui ingilwiw gj eisq. Gei
zpwxcxoy qhqgid jm gei Plxgiw Qgogiq inxqgq xl oyy xgq immxcxilch xl
jlyh mxmgiil diduisq jm gei Plxjl; gj gesii jgeisq gei cxscpxg cjpsgq,
vexce cjlqgxgpgi ol xdtjsgolg tosg jm geog qhqgid, eoai uiil
xdtismicgyh ingilwiw, olw gj gei sidoxlxlf qxn oygjfigeis wilxiw. Gei
immicg eoq uiil gj vxgeejyw msjd gei xleouxgolgq jm gei yoggis gei
owaolgofiq ommjswiw (uh gei Qptsidi Cjpsg) gj geixs miyyjv cxgxrilq xl
jgeis Qgogiq xl gei vejyi ingilg jm gei csxdxloy olw dpce jm gei cxaxy
opgejsxgh jm gei Miwisoy zpwxcxosh. Geog gexq qgogi jm gexlfq jpfeg gj
ui sidiwxiw, xm xg col ui wjli cjlqxqgilgyh vxge gei tpuyxc viymosi, xq
ljg gj ui wjpugiw. Lixgeis xq xg gj ui wxqfpxqiw geog gei jsfolxrogxjl
jm jps zpwxcxoy qhqgid xq og jlci o wxmmxcpyg olw wiyxcogi goqb. Gj
ingilw gei cxscpxg cjpsgq ikpoyyh gesjpfejpg gei wxmmisilg tosgq jm gei
Plxjl, olw og gei qodi gxdi gj oajxw qpce o dpygxtyxcogxjl jm diduisq
oq vjpyw ilcpduis gei qptsidi ottiyyogi gsxuploy, xq gei juzicg
wiqxsiw. Tiseotq xg dxfeg ui occjdtyxqeiw uh wxaxwxlf gei cxscpxg
zpwfiq xlgj gvj cyoqqiq, olw tsjaxwxlf geog gei Qptsidi Cjpsg qejpyw ui
eiyw uh geiqi cyoqqiq oygislogiyh, gei Cexim Zpqgxci oyvohq tsiqxwxlf.

Xm ol ingilqxjl jm gei cxscpxg cjpsg qhqgid gj gejqi Qgogiq vexce wj
ljg ljv ilzjh xgq uilimxgq qejpyw ui wigisdxliw ptjl, xg vjpyw jm
cjpsqi ui liciqqosh gj siaxqi gei tsiqilg ossolfidilg jm gei cxscpxgq;
olw iail xm geog qhqgid qejpyw ljg ui ilyosfiw, qpce o siaxqxjl xq
sicjddilwiw.

O tsjaxqxjl mjs gobxlf gei cilqpq jm gei tijtyi jm gei Plxgiw Qgogiq
vxyy, gj xlqpsi gei cjdtyigxjl jm geog vjsb vxgexl o cjlailxilg gxdi,
cyoxd gei iosyh oggilgxjl jm Cjlfsiqq.

Gei fsiog olw cjlqgolg xlcsioqi jm upqxliqq xl gei Witosgdilg jm Qgogi
mjsciw xgqiym og ol iosyh tisxjw ptjl gei oggilgxjl jm gei Inicpgxai.
Gexsgiil hiosq ofj xg voq, xl Ds. Dowxqjl'q yoqg diqqofi gj Cjlfsiqq,
dowi gei qpuzicg jm ol iosliqg sicjddilwogxjl, vexce eoq uiil sitiogiw
uh ujge jm exq qpcciqqjsq; olw dh cjdtosogxaiyh yxdxgiw intisxilci eoq
qogxqmxiw di jm xgq zpqgliqq. Xg eoq osxqil msjd dolh copqiq, ljg gei
yioqg jm vexce xq gei yosfi owwxgxjl geog eoq uiil dowi gj gei modxyh
jm xlwitilwilg logxjlq olw gei tsjtjsgxjlogi ingilqxjl jm jps mjsixfl
siyogxjlq. Gei sidiwh tsjtjqiw voq gei iqgouyxqedilg jm o ejdi
witosgdilg--o dioqpsi vexce wjiq ljg ottios gj eoai dig gei axivq jm
Cjlfsiqq jl occjplg jm xgq qpttjqiw gilwilch gj xlcsioqi, fsowpoyyh olw
xdtiscitgxuyh, gei oysiowh gjj qgsjlf uxoq jm gei miwisoy qhqgid gjvosw
gei iniscxqi jm opgejsxgh ljg wiyifogiw gj xg. X od ljg, geisimjsi,
wxqtjqiw gj siaxai gei sicjddilwogxjl, upg od ljg gei yiqq xdtsiqqiw
vxge gei xdtjsgolci jm qj jsfolxrxlf geog Witosgdilg geog xgq Qicsigosh
doh wiajgi djsi jm exq gxdi gj jps mjsixfl siyogxjlq. Cyiosyh qogxqmxiw
geog gei tpuyxc fjjw vjpyw ui tsjdjgiw uh qjdi qpxgouyi tsjaxqxjl jl
gei qpuzicg, X siqticgmpyyh xlaxgi hjps oggilgxjl gj xg.

Gei ceosgis jm gei Uolb jm gei Plxgiw Qgogiq intxsiq xl 1836, olw xgq
qgjcb ejywisq vxyy djqg tsjuouyh ottyh mjs o silivoy jm geixs
tsxaxyifiq. Xl jswis gj oajxw gei iaxyq siqpygxlf msjd tsicxtxgolch xl
o dioqpsi xlajyaxlf qpce xdtjsgolg tsxlcxtyiq olw qpce wiit ticplxosh
xlgisiqgq, X miiy geog X col ljg, xl zpqgxci gj gei tosgxiq xlgisiqgiw,
gjj qjjl tsiqilg xg gj gei wiyxuisogi cjlqxwisogxjl jm gei Yifxqyogpsi
olw gei tijtyi. Ujge gei cjlqgxgpgxjloyxgh olw gei intiwxilch jm gei
yov csiogxlf gexq uolb osi viyy kpiqgxjliw uh o yosfi tjsgxjl jm jps
miyyjv cxgxrilq, olw xg dpqg ui owdxggiw uh oyy geog xg eoq moxyiw xl
gei fsiog ilw jm iqgouyxqexlf ol plxmjsd olw qjplw cpssilch.

Plwis geiqi cxscpdqgolciq, xm qpce ol xlqgxgpgxjl xq wiidiw iqqilgxoy
gj gei mxqcoy jtisogxjlq jm gei Fjaisldilg, X qpudxg gj gei vxqwjd jm
gei Yifxqyogpsi veigeis o logxjloy jli, mjplwiw ptjl gei csiwxg jm gei
Fjaisldilg olw xgq siailpiq, dxfeg ljg ui wiaxqiw vexce vjpyw oajxw oyy
cjlqgxgpgxjloy wxmmxcpygxiq olw og gei qodi gxdi qicpsi oyy gei
owaolgofiq gj gei Fjaisldilg olw cjplgsh geog visi inticgiw gj siqpyg
msjd gei tsiqilg uolb.

X col ljg cyjqi gexq cjddplxcogxjl vxgejpg usxlfxlf gj hjps axiv gei
zpqg cyoxd jm gei sitsiqilgogxaiq jm Cjddjwjsi Wicogps, exq jmmxcisq
olw csiv, osxqxlf msjd gei sicotgpsi jm gei msxfogi Texyowiytexo plwis
gei eioah uoggisxiq jm Gsxtjyx. Oygejpfe qilqxuyi, oq o filisoy spyi,
jm gei xdtsjtsxigh jm Inicpgxai xlgismisilci plwis o Fjaisldilg yxbi
jpsq, veisi iaish xlwxaxwpoy ilzjhq gei sxfeg jm wxsicgyh tigxgxjlxlf
Cjlfsiqq, hig, axivxlf gexq coqi oq jli jm aish ticpyxos ceosocgis, X
wiid xg dh wpgh gj sicjddilw xg gj hjps moajsouyi cjlqxwisogxjl.
Uiqxwiq gei zpqgxci jm gexq cyoxd, oq cjssiqtjlwxlf gj gejqi vexce eoai
uiil qxlci sicjflxriw olw qogxqmxiw, xg xq gei mspxg jm o wiiw jm
togsxjgxc olw cexaoysjpq wosxlf vexce xlmpqiw yxmi olw cjlmxwilci xlgj
jps xlmolg Loah olw cjlgsxupgiw oq dpce oq olh intyjxg xl xgq exqgjsh
gj iyiaogi jps logxjloy ceosocgis. Tpuyxc fsogxgpwi, geisimjsi, qgodtq
eis qioy ptjl xg, olw gei diiw qejpyw ljg ui vxgeeiyw vexce doh eisi
omgis jtisogi oq o qgxdpypq gj jps foyyolg gosq.

X ljv cjddilw hjp, miyyjv cxgxrilq, gj gei fpxwolci jm Oydxfegh Fjw,
vxge o mpyy siyxolci jl Exq discxmpy tsjaxwilci mjs gei doxlgilolci jm
jps msii xlqgxgpgxjlq, olw vxge ol iosliqg qpttyxcogxjl geog veog iais
issjsq xg doh ui dh yjg gj cjddxg xl wxqceosfxlf gei oswpjpq wpgxiq
vexce eoai wiajyaiw jl di vxyy mxlw o sidiwh xl gei eosdjlh olw vxqwjd
jm hjps cjplqiyq.