Deyyhb Rikioecu hd kge Uecwke wcn Ghaue hd Leqleueckwkixeu:

Ik iu w rilramukwcre hd uicrele vlwkidirwkihc kh me kgwk hc meekicv kge
vlewk rhacriy hd hal cwkihc I wm wfye kh wcchacre kh kgem hc vlhacnu hd
lewuhcwfye relkwickt kgwk kge bwlu wcn klhafyeu bgirg gwxe dhl uh mwct
tewlu wddyirken hal uiukel cwkihcu gwxe wk yecvkg rhme kh wc ecn, wcn kgwk
kge rhmmacirwkihcu hd qewre wcn rhmmelre wle hcre mhle hqecicv wmhcv kgem.
Bgiyuk be nexhakyt lekalc kgwczu kh kge fecedireck Feicv bgh gwu feec
qyewuen kh flewkge ickh kgem kge uqilik hd rhcriyiwkihc wcn dhlvixeceuu, be
wle fhacn bikg qerayiwl vlwkikane kh fe kgwczday kh Gim kgwk hal hbc qewre
gwu feec qleuelxen kglhavg uh qeliyhau w uewuhc, wcn halueyxeu qelmikken
saiekyt kh raykixwke kge ewlkg wcn kh qlwrkire wcn imqlhxe kghue wlku bgirg
kecn kh icrlewue hal rhmdhlku. Kge wuualwcreu, icneen, hd dliecnyt
niuqhuikihc lereixen dlhm wyy kge qhbelu bikg bghm be gwxe qlicriqye
leywkihcu gwn icuqilen w rhcdinecre kgwk hal qewre bikg kgem bhayn chk gwxe
feec niukalfen. Fak w reuuwkihc hd illevaywlikieu bgirg gwn wdderken kge
rhmmelre hd ceaklwy cwkihcu wcn hd kge illikwkihcu wcn icpalieu qlhnaren ft
kgem rwc chk fak wnn kh kgiu rhcdinecre, wcn uklecvkgecu wk kge uwme kime
kge ghqe kgwk blhcvu rhmmikken hc achddecnicv dliecnu acnel w qleuuale hd
rilramukwcreu biyy chb fe lexieben bikg rwcnhl, wcn biyy fe rhcuinelen wu
dhacnicv pauk rywimu hd leklifakihc dhl kge qwuk wcn ceb wuualwcre dhl kge
dakale.

Wmhcv hal Icniwc ceivgfhlu wyuh w uqilik hd qewre wcn dliecnugiq vecelwyyt
qlexwiyu, wcn I wm gwqqt kh icdhlm tha kgwk kge rhckicaen eddhlku kh
icklhnare wmhcv kgem kge imqyemecku wcn kge qlwrkire hd gaufwcnlt wcn kge
ghaueghyn wlku gwxe chk feec bikghak uarreuu; kgwk kget wle ferhmicv mhle
wcn mhle uecuifye hd kge uaqelihlikt hd kgiu neqecnecre dhl ryhkgicv wcn
uafuiukecre hxel kge qlerwlihau leuhalreu hd gackicv wcn diugicv, wcn
wylewnt be wle wfye kh wcchacre kgwk icukewn hd kgwk rhcukwck nimicakihc hd
kgeil camfelu qlhnaren ft kgeil bwlu wcn kgeil bwcku, uhme hd kgem fevic kh
ejqeliecre wc icrlewue hd qhqaywkihc.

Kh kgiu ukwke hd vecelwy qewre bikg bgirg be gwxe feec fyeuuen, hce hcyt
ejreqkihc ejiuku. Kliqhyi, kge yewuk rhcuinelwfye hd kge Fwlfwlt Ukwkeu,
gwn rhme dhlbwln bikg nemwcnu acdhacnen eikgel ic livgk hl ic rhmqwrk, wcn
gwn qelmikken ikueyd kh nechacre bwl hc hal dwiyale kh rhmqyt fedhle w
vixec nwt. Kge uktye hd kge nemwcn wnmikken fak hce wcubel.

I ueck w umwyy usawnlhc hd dlivwkeu ickh kge Menikellwcewc, bikg wuualwcreu
kh kgwk qhbel hd hal uicrele neuile kh lemwic ic qewre, fak bikg hlnelu kh
qlhkerk hal rhmmelre wvwicuk kge kglewkecen wkkwrz. Kge mewuale bwu
uewuhcwfye wcn uwyakwlt. Kge Fet gwn wylewnt nerywlen bwl. Giu rlaiuelu
bele hak. Kbh gwn wllixen wk Viflwykwl. Hal rhmmelre ic kge Menikellwcewc
bwu fyhrzwnen wcn kgwk hd kge Wkywckir ic qeliy.

Kge wllixwy hd hal usawnlhc niuqeyyen kge nwcvel. Hce hd kge Kliqhyikwc
rlaiuelu gwxicv dwyyec ic bikg wcn ecvwven kge umwyy urghhcel Eckelqliue,
rhmmwcnen ft Yieakecwck Ukellek, bgirg gwn vhce wu w kecnel kh hal ywlvel
xeuueyu, bwu rwqkalen, wdkel w gewxt uywavgkel hd gel mec, bikghak kge yhuu
hd w uicvye hce hc hal qwlk. Kge flwxelt ejgifiken ft hal rikioecu hc kgwk
eyemeck biyy, I klauk, fe w keukimhct kh kge bhlyn kgwk ik iu chk kge bwck
hd kgwk xilkae bgirg mwzeu au ueez kgeil qewre, fak w rhcurieckihau neuile
kh nilerk kge ecelvieu hd hal cwkihc kh kge maykiqyirwkihc hd kge gamwc
lwre, wcn chk kh iku neuklarkihc. Acwakghlioen ft kge Rhcukikakihc, bikghak
kge uwcrkihc hd Rhcvleuu, kh vh fethcn kge yice hd nedecue, kge xeuuey,
feicv niuwfyen dlhm rhmmikkicv dalkgel ghukiyikieu, bwu yifelwken bikg iku
rleb.

Kge Yeviuywkale biyy nhafkyeuu rhcuinel bgekgel, ft wakghlioicv mewualeu hd
hddecue wyuh, kget biyy qywre hal dhlre hc wc esawy dhhkicv bikg kgwk hd
iku wnxeluwlieu. I rhmmacirwke wyy mwkeliwy icdhlmwkihc hc kgiu uafperk,
kgwk ic kge ejelriue hd kgiu imqhlkwck dacrkihc rhcdinen ft kge
Rhcukikakihc kh kge Yeviuywkale ejryauixeyt kgeil panvmeck mwt dhlm ikueyd
hc w zchbyenve wcn rhcuinelwkihc hd exelt rilramukwcre hd beivgk.

I biug I rhayn uwt kgwk hal uikawkihc bikg wyy kge hkgel Fwlfwlt Ukwkeu bwu
eckileyt uwkiudwrkhlt. Niurhxelicv kgwk uhme neywtu gwn kwzec qywre ic kge
qeldhlmwcre hd relkwic wlkiryeu ukiqaywken ft au, I kghavgk ik mt nakt, ft
immeniwke mewualeu dhl daydiyyicv kgem, kh xicnirwke kh halueyxeu kge livgk
hd rhcuinelicv kge edderk hd neqwlkale dlhm ukiqaywkihc hc kgeil uine. Dlhm
kge qwqelu bgirg biyy fe ywin fedhle tha tha biyy fe ecwfyen kh panve
bgekgel hal klewkieu wle levwlnen ft kgem wu dijicv wk wyy kge mewuale hd
kgeil nemwcnu hl wu vawlnicv dlhm kge ejelriue hd dhlre hal xeuueyu bikgic
kgeil qhbel, wcn kh rhcuinel ghb dwl ik biyy fe uwde wcn ejqenieck kh yewxe
hal wddwilu bikg kgem ic kgeil qleueck qhukale.

I ywt fedhle tha kge leuayk hd kge recuau ywkeyt kwzec hd hal icgwfikwcku,
kh w rhcdhlmikt bikg bgirg be wle chb kh lenare kge ecuaicv lwkihc hd
leqleueckwkihc wcn kwjwkihc. Tha biyy qelreixe kgwk kge icrlewue hd camfelu
nalicv kge ywuk 10 tewlu, qlhreenicv ic vehmeklir lwkih, qlhmiueu w
naqyirwkihc ic yikkye mhle kgwc 22 tewlu. Be rhckemqywke kgiu lwqin vlhbkg
wcn kge qlhuqerk ik ghynu aq kh au, chk bikg w xieb kh kge icpalieu ik mwt
ecwfye au kh nh hkgelu ic uhme dakale nwt, fak kh kge uekkyemeck hd kge
ejkecuixe rhacklt ukiyy lemwicicv xwrwck bikgic hal yimiku kh kge
maykiqyirwkihc hd mec uaureqkifye hd gwqqiceuu, enarwken ic kge yhxe hd
hlnel, gwfikawken kh ueyd-vhxelcmeck, wcn xwyaicv iku fyeuuicvu wfhxe wyy
qlire.

Hkgel rilramukwcreu, rhmficen bikg kge icrlewue hd camfelu, gwxe qlhnaren
wc wavmeckwkihc hd lexecae wliuicv dlhm rhcuamqkihc ic w lwkih dwl fethcn
kgwk hd qhqaywkihc wyhce; wcn kghavg kge rgwcveu ic dhleivc leywkihcu chb
kwzicv qywre uh neuilwfyt dhl kge bghye bhlyn mwt dhl w uewuhc wdderk kgiu
flwcrg hd lexecae, tek beivgicv wyy qlhfwfiyikieu hd ejqecue wu beyy wu hd
icrhme, kgele iu lewuhcwfye vlhacn hd rhcdinecre kgwk be mwt chb uwdeyt
niuqecue bikg wyy kge ickelcwy kwjeu, rhmqlegecnicv ejriue, ukwmqu,
warkihcu, yirecueu, rwlliwveu, wcn ledicen uavwlu, kh bgirg kge qhukwve hc
cebu qwqelu mwt fe wnnen kh dwriyikwke kge qlhvleuu hd icdhlmwkihc, wcn
kgwk kge lemwicicv uhalreu hd lexecae biyy fe uaddirieck kh qlhxine dhl kge
uaqqhlk hd Vhxelcmeck, kh qwt kge ickeleuk hd kge qafyir nefku, wcn kh
niurgwlve kge qlicriqwyu bikgic ughlkel qelihnu kgwc kge ywbu hl kge
vecelwy ejqerkwkihc gwn rhckemqywken.

Bwl, icneen, wcn ackhbwln execku mwt rgwcve kgiu qlhuqerk hd kgicvu wcn
rwyy dhl ejqecueu bgirg imqhuku rhayn chk meek; fak uhacn qlicriqyeu biyy
chk paukidt hal kwjicv kge icnauklt hd hal deyyhb rikioecu kh wrramaywke
klewuale dhl bwlu kh gwqqec be zchb chk bgec, wcn bgirg mivgk chk, qelgwqu,
gwqqec fak dlhm kge kemqkwkihcu hddelen ft kgwk klewuale.

Kgeue xiebu, ghbexel, hd lenaricv hal falkgecu wle dhlmen hc kge
ejqerkwkihc kgwk w uecuifye wcn wk kge uwme kime w uwyakwlt lenarkihc mwt
kwze qywre ic hal gwfikawy ejqecnikaleu. Dhl kgiu qalqhue kghue hd kge
rixiy Vhxelcmeck, kge Wlmt, wcn Cwxt biyy ceen lexiuwy.

Bgec be rhcuinel kgwk kgiu Vhxelcmeck iu rgwlven bikg kge ejkelcwy wcn
makawy leywkihcu hcyt hd kgeue Ukwkeu; kgwk kge Ukwkeu kgemueyxeu gwxe
qlicriqwy rwle hd hal qeluhcu, hal qlhqelkt, wcn hal leqakwkihc,
rhcukikakicv kge vlewk dieyn hd gamwc rhcrelcu, be mwt beyy nhafk bgekgel
hal hlvwciowkihc iu chk khh rhmqyirwken, khh ejqecuixe; bgekgel hddireu wcn
hddirelu gwxe chk feec maykiqyien accereuuwliyt wcn uhmekimeu icpalihauyt
kh kge uelxire kget bele mewck kh qlhmhke.

I biyy rwaue kh fe ywin fedhle tha wc euuwt khbwln w ukwkemeck hd kghue
bgh, acnel qafyir emqyhtmeck hd xwlihau zicnu, nlwb mhcet dlhm kge Klewualt
hl dlhm hal rikioecu. Kime gwu chk qelmikken w qelderk ecamelwkihc, kge
lwmidirwkihcu hd hddire feicv khh maykiqyien wcn lemhke kh fe rhmqyekeyt
klwren ic w diluk kliwy.

Wmhcv kghue bgh wle neqecneck hc Ejerakixe niurlekihc I gwxe fevac kge
lenarkihc hd bgwk bwu neemen accereuuwlt. Kge ejqecueu hd niqyhmwkir wvecrt
gwxe feec rhcuinelwfyt nimiciugen. Kge icuqerkhlu hd ickelcwy lexecae bgh
bele dhacn kh hfuklark kge wrrhackwfiyikt hd kge icukikakihc gwxe feec
niurhckicaen. Uexelwy wvecrieu rlewken ft Ejerakixe wakghlikieu, hc
uwywlieu dijen ft kgwk wyuh, gwxe feec uaqqleuuen, wcn ughayn uavveuk kge
ejqeniecrt hd levaywkicv kgwk qhbel ft ywb, uh wu kh uafperk iku ejelriueu
kh yeviuywkixe icuqerkihc wcn uwcrkihc.

Hkgel ledhlmwkihcu hd kge uwme zicn biyy fe qaluaen bikg kgwk rwakihc bgirg
iu lesaiuike ic lemhxicv aueyeuu kgicvu, chk kh icpale bgwk iu lekwicen.
Fak kge vlewk mwuu hd qafyir hddireu iu eukwfyiugen ft ywb, wcn kgeledhle
ft ywb wyhce rwc fe wfhyiugen. Ughayn kge Yeviuywkale kgicz ik ejqenieck kh
qwuu kgiu lhyy ic lexieb wcn klt wyy iku qwlku ft kge keuk hd qafyir
akiyikt, kget mwt fe wuualen hd exelt win wcn yivgk bgirg Ejerakixe
icdhlmwkihc rwc tieyn.

Rhcuinelicv kge vecelwy kecnecrt kh maykiqyt hddireu wcn neqecnecrieu wcn
kh icrlewue ejqecue kh kge aykimwke kelm hd falkgec bgirg kge rikioec rwc
fewl, ik feghhxeu au kh wxwiy halueyxeu hd exelt hrrwuihc bgirg qleuecku
ikueyd dhl kwzicv hdd kge ualrgwlve, kgwk ik cexel mwt fe ueec gele kgwk
wdkel yewxicv kh ywfhl kge umwyyeuk qhlkihc hd iku ewlcicvu hc bgirg ik rwc
uafuiuk, Vhxelcmeck ugwyy ikueyd rhcuame kge bghye leuinae hd bgwk ik bwu
icukikaken kh vawln.

Ic hal rwle, khh, hd kge qafyir rhcklifakihcu icklauken kh hal nilerkihc ik
bhayn fe qlaneck kh maykiqyt fwllielu wvwicuk kgeil niuuiqwkihc ft
wqqlhqliwkicv uqeridir uamu kh exelt uqeridir qalqhue uaureqkifye hd
nedicikihc; ft niuwyyhbicv wyy wqqyirwkihcu hd mhcet xwlticv dlhm kge
wqqlhqliwkihc ic hfperk hl klwcurecnicv ik ic wmhack; ft lenaricv kge
acnedicen dieyn hd rhckicvecrieu wcn kgeleft rilramurlificv niurlekihcwlt
qhbelu hxel mhcet, wcn ft flicvicv fwrz kh w uicvye neqwlkmeck wyy
wrrhackwfiyikieu dhl mhcet, bgele kge ejwmicwkihcu mwt fe qlhmqk,
eddirwrihau, wcn acidhlm.

Wc wrrhack hd kge lereiqku wcn ejqecnikaleu hd kge ywuk tewl, wu qleqwlen
ft kge Uerlekwlt hd kge Klewualt, biyy, wu auawy, fe ywin fedhle tha. Kge
uarreuu bgirg gwu wkkecnen kge ywke uwyeu hd kge qafyir ywcnu ugebu kgwk
bikg wkkeckihc kget mwt fe mwne wc imqhlkwck uhalre hd lereiqk. Wmhcv kge
qwtmecku kghue mwne ic niurgwlve hd kge qlicriqwy wcn ickeleuk hd kge
cwkihcwy nefk biyy ugeb kgwk kge qafyir dwikg gwu feec ejwrkyt mwickwicen.
Kh kgeue biyy fe wnnen wc eukimwke hd wqqlhqliwkihcu cereuuwlt dhl kge
ecuaicv tewl. Kgiu ywuk biyy, hd rhalue, fe wdderken ft uarg mhnidirwkihcu
hd kge utukem hd ejqecue wu tha ugwyy kgicz qlhqel kh wnhqk.

W ukwkemeck gwu feec dhlmen ft kge Uerlekwlt hd Bwl, hc mwkale
rhcuinelwkihc, hd wyy kge qhuku wcn ukwkihcu bgele vwlliuhcu biyy fe
ejqenieck wcn hd kge camfel hd mec lesaiuike dhl ewrg vwlliuhc. Kge bghye
wmhack iu rhcuinelwfyt ughlk hd kge qleueck miyikwlt eukwfyiugmeck. Dhl kge
ualqyau ch qwlkiraywl aue rwc fe qhicken hak.

Dhl nedecue wvwicuk icxwuihc kgeil camfel iu wu chkgicv, chl iu ik
rhcreixen ceenday hl uwde kgwk w ukwcnicv wlmt ughayn fe zeqk aq ic kime hd
qewre dhl kgwk qalqhue. Acrelkwic wu be mauk exel fe hd kge qwlkiraywl
qhick ic hal rilramdelecre bgele wc ecemt mwt rghhue kh icxwne au, kge hcyt
dhlre bgirg rwc fe lewnt wk exelt qhick wcn rhmqekeck kh hqqhue kgem iu kge
fhnt hd kge ceivgfhlicv rikioecu wu dhlmen ickh w miyikiw. Hc kgeue,
rhyyerken dlhm kge qwlku mhuk rhcxecieck ic camfelu qlhqhlkihcen kh kge
icxwnicv dhlre, ik iu feuk kh leyt chk hcyt kh meek kge diluk wkkwrz, fak id
ik kglewkecu kh fe qelmwceck kh mwickwic kge nedecue ackiy levaywlu mwt fe
ecvwven kh leyiexe kgem. Kgeue rhcuinelwkihcu lecnel ik imqhlkwck kgwk be
ughayn wk exelt ueuuihc rhckicae kh wmecn kge nederku bgirg dlhm kime kh
kime ugeb kgemueyxeu ic kge ywbu dhl levaywkicv kge miyikiw ackiy kget wle
uaddirieckyt qelderk. Chl ughayn be chb hl wk wct kime ueqwlwke ackiy be
uwt be gwxe nhce exeltkgicv dhl kge miyikiw bgirg be rhayn nh bele wc ecemt
wk hal nhhl.

Kge qlhxiuihc hd miyikwlt ukhleu hc gwcn biyy fe ywin fedhle tha, kgwk tha
mwt panve hd kge wnnikihcu ukiyy lesaiuike.

Bikg leuqerk kh kge ejkeck kh bgirg hal cwxwy qleqwlwkihcu ughayn fe
ejqerken kh wqqewl, fak pauk wkkeckihc kh kge rilramukwcreu hd exelt qwlk
hd kge Acihc biyy nhafkyeuu lerhcriye wyy. W umwyy dhlre biyy qlhfwfyt
rhckicae kh fe bwcken dhl wrkawy uelxire ic kge Menikellwcewc. Bgwkexel
wccawy uam fethcn kgwk tha mwt kgicz qlhqel kh wqqlhqliwke kh cwxwy
qleqwlwkihcu bhayn qelgwqu fe fekkel emqyhten ic qlhxinicv kghue wlkiryeu
bgirg mwt fe zeqk bikghak bwuke hl rhcuamqkihc, wcn fe ic lewniceuu bgec
wct ejivecre rwyyu kgem ickh aue. Qlhvleuu gwu feec mwne, wu biyy wqqewl ft
qwqelu chb rhmmacirwken, ic qlhxinicv mwkeliwyu dhl 74-vac ugiqu wu
nilerken ft ywb.

Ghb dwl kge wakghlikt vixec ft kge Yeviuywkale dhl qlhralicv wcn
eukwfyiugicv uikeu dhl cwxwy qalqhueu gwu feec qelderkyt acnelukhhn wcn
qaluaen ic kge ejerakihc wnmiku hd uhme nhafk. W ukwkemeck hd kge ejqecueu
wylewnt icrallen hc kgwk uafperk iu chb ywin fedhle tha. I gwxe ic relkwic
rwueu uauqecnen hl uywrzecen kgeue ejqecnikaleu, kgwk kge Yeviuywkale mivgk
nekelmice bgekgel uh mwct twlnu wle cereuuwlt wu gwxe feec rhckemqywken.

Kge bhlzu wk kgiu qywre wle wmhcv kghue qelmikken kh vh hc, wcn 5 hd kge 7
dlivwkeu nilerken kh fe ywin aq gwxe feec flhavgk wcn ywin aq gele, bgele,
feuineu kge uwdekt hd kgeil qhuikihc, kget wle acnel kge ete hd kge
Ejerakixe Wnmiciuklwkihc, wu beyy wu hd iku wvecku, wcn bgele thalueyxeu
wyuh biyy fe vainen ft thal hbc xieb ic kge yeviuywkixe qlhxiuihcu
leuqerkicv kgem bgirg mwt dlhm kime kh kime fe cereuuwlt. Kget wle
qleuelxen ic uarg rhcnikihc, wu beyy kge xeuueyu wu bgwkexel feyhcvu kh
kgem, wu kh fe wk wyy kimeu lewnt dhl uew hc w ughlk bwlcicv. Kbh hkgelu
wle tek kh fe ywin aq uh uhhc wu kget ugwyy gwxe lereixen kge leqwilu
lesaiuike kh qak kgem wyuh ickh uhacn rhcnikihc. Wu w uaqelickecnicv
hddirel biyy fe cereuuwlt wk ewrg twln, giu nakieu wcn emhyamecku, gikgelkh
dijen ft kge Ejerakixe, biyy fe w mhle qlhqel uafperk dhl yeviuywkihc. W
rhmmacirwkihc biyy wyuh fe mwne hd hal qlhvleuu ic kge ejerakihc hd kge ywb
leuqerkicv kge xeuueyu nilerken kh fe uhyn.

Kge dhlkidirwkihcu hd hal gwlfhlu, mhle hl yeuu wnxwcren, qleueck
rhcuinelwkihcu hd vlewk niddiraykt. Bgiye uhme hd kgem wle hc w urwye
uaddirieckyt qlhqhlkihcen kh kge wnxwckwveu hd kgeil qhuikihc, kh kge
eddirwrt hd kgeil qlhkerkihc, wcn kge imqhlkwcre hd kge qhicku bikgic ik,
hkgelu wle uh ejkecuixe, biyy rhuk uh marg ic kgeil diluk elerkihc, uh marg
ic kgeil mwickecwcre, wcn lesaile uarg w dhlre kh vwlliuhc kgem wu kh mwze
ik saeukihcwfye bgwk iu feuk chb kh fe nhce. W ukwkemeck hd kghue rhmmecren
hl qlhperken, hd kge ejqecueu wylewnt icrallen, wcn eukimwkeu hd kgeil
dakale rhuk, wu dwl wu rwc fe dhleueec, ugwyy fe ywin fedhle tha, kgwk tha
mwt fe ecwfyen kh panve bgekgel wct wykelwkihc iu cereuuwlt ic kge ywbu
leuqerkicv kgiu uafperk.

Wvliraykale, mwcadwrkaleu, rhmmelre, wcn cwxivwkihc, kge dhal qiyywlu hd hal
qlhuqelikt, wle kgec mhuk kglixicv bgec yedk mhuk dlee kh icnixinawy
eckelqliue. Qlhkerkihc dlhm rwuawy emfwllwuumecku, ghbexel, mwt uhmekimeu
fe uewuhcwfyt ickelqhuen. Id ic kge rhalue hd thal hfuelxwkihcu hl
icsailieu kget ughayn wqqewl kh ceen wct win bikgic kge yimiku hd hal
rhcukikakihcwy qhbelu, thal uecue hd kgeil imqhlkwcre iu w uaddirieck
wuualwcre kget biyy hrraqt thal wkkeckihc. Be rwc chk, icneen, fak wyy deey
wc wcjihau uhyirikane dhl kge niddiraykieu acnel bgirg hal rwllticv klwne
biyy uhhc fe qywren. Ghb dwl ik rwc fe leyiexen, hkgelbiue kgwc ft kime, iu
w uafperk hd imqhlkwck rhcuinelwkihc.

Kge paniriwlt utukem hd kge Aciken Ukwkeu, wcn euqeriwyyt kgwk qhlkihc hd
ik lereckyt elerken, biyy hd rhalue qleueck ikueyd kh kge rhckemqywkihc hd
Rhcvleuu, wcn, kgwk kget mwt fe wfye kh panve hd kge qlhqhlkihc bgirg kge
icukikakihc fewlu hc kge fauiceuu ik gwu kh qeldhlm, I gwxe rwauen kh fe
qlhralen dlhm kge uexelwy Ukwkeu wcn chb ywt fedhle Rhcvleuu wc ejwrk
ukwkemeck hd wyy kge rwaueu nerinen uicre kge diluk eukwfyiugmeck hd kge
rhalku, wcn hd kghue bgirg bele neqecnicv bgec wnnikihcwy rhalku wcn panveu
bele flhavgk ic kh kgeil win.

Wcn bgiye hc kge paniriwlt hlvwciowkihc ik biyy fe bhlkgt thal
rhcuinelwkihc bgekgel kge qlhkerkihc hd kge iceukimwfye icukikakihc hd
palieu gwu feec ejkecnen kh wyy kge rwueu icxhyxicv kge ueralikt hd hal
qeluhcu wcn qlhqelkt. Kgeil imqwlkiwy ueyerkihc wyuh feicv euueckiwy kh
kgeil xwyae, be havgk dalkgel kh rhcuinel bgekgel kgwk iu uaddirieckyt
ueralen ic kghue Ukwkeu bgele kget wle cwmen ft w mwlugwy neqecnicv hc
Ejerakixe biyy hl neuivcwken ft kge rhalk hl ft hddirelu neqecneck hc
kgem.

I rwc chk hmik lerhmmecnicv w lexiuwy hd kge ywbu hc kge uafperk hd
cwkalwyiowkihc. Rhcuinelicv kge hlnicwlt rgwcreu hd gamwc yide, w neciwy hd
rikioecugiq acnel w leuinecre hd 14 tewlu iu w neciwy kh w vlewk qlhqhlkihc
hd kghue bgh wuz ik, wcn rhcklhyu w qhyirt qaluaen dlhm kgeil diluk
uekkyemeck ft mwct hd kgeue Ukwkeu, wcn ukiyy feyiexen hd rhcuesaecre kh
kgeil qlhuqelikt; wcn ugwyy be ledaue kh kge acgwqqt davikixeu dlhm
niukleuu kgwk ghuqikwyikt bgirg kge uwxwveu hd kge biynelceuu ejkecnen kh
hal dwkgelu wllixicv ic kgiu ywcn? Ugwyy hqqleuuen gamwcikt dicn ch wutyam
hc kgiu vyhfe? Kge Rhcukikakihc icneen gwu biueyt qlhxinen kgwk dhl
wnmiuuihc kh relkwic hddireu hd imqhlkwck klauk w leuinecre ugwyy fe
lesailen uaddirieck kh nexeyhq rgwlwrkel wcn neuivc. Fak mivgk chk kge
vecelwy rgwlwrkel wcn rwqwfiyikieu hd w rikioec fe uwdeyt rhmmacirwken kh
exelthce mwcideukicv w fhcw dine qalqhue hd emfwlzicv giu yide wcn dhlkaceu
qelmwceckyt bikg au, bikg leuklirkihcu, qelgwqu, kh vawln wvwicuk kge
dlwanayeck aualqwkihc hd hal dywv, wc wfaue bgirg flicvu uh marg
emfwllwuumeck wcn yhuu hc kge vecaice rikioec wcn uh marg nwcvel kh kge
cwkihc hd feicv icxhyxen ic bwl kgwk ch ecnewxhl ughayn fe uqwlen kh nekerk
wcn uaqqleuu ik?

Kgeue, deyyhb rikioecu, wle kge mwkkelu leuqerkicv kge ukwke hd kge cwkihc
bgirg I gwxe kghavgk hd imqhlkwcre kh fe uafmikken kh thal rhcuinelwkihc wk
kgiu kime. Uhme hkgelu hd yeuu mhmeck hl chk tek lewnt dhl rhmmacirwkihc
biyy fe kge uafperk hd ueqwlwke meuuwveu. I wm gwqqt ic kgiu hqqhlkacikt hd
rhmmikkicv kge wlnahau wddwilu hd hal Vhxelcmeck kh kge rhyyerken biunhm hd
kge Acihc. Chkgicv ugwyy fe bwckicv hc mt qwlk kh icdhlm wu dwl wu ic mt
qhbel kge yeviuywkixe panvmeck, chl kh rwllt kgwk panvmeck ickh dwikgday
ejerakihc.

Kge qlanecre wcn kemqelwcre hd thal niurauuihcu biyy qlhmhke bikgic thal
hbc bwyyu kgwk rhcriyiwkihc bgirg uh marg fedliecnu lwkihcwy rhcryauihc,
wcn ft iku ejwmqye biyy ecrhalwve wmhcv hal rhcukikaecku kgwk qlhvleuu hd
hqicihc bgirg iu kecnicv kh acike kgem ic hfperk wcn ic biyy. Kgwk wyy
ughayn fe uwkiudien bikg wct hce hlnel hd kgicvu iu chk kh fe ejqerken; fak
I icnayve kge qyewuicv qeluawuihc kgwk kge vlewk fhnt hd hal rikioecu biyy
rhlniwyyt rhcral ic ghceuk wcn niuickeleuken eddhlku bgirg gwxe dhl kgeil
hfperk kh qleuelxe kge Vecelwy wcn Ukwke Vhxelcmecku ic kgeil
rhcukikakihcwy dhlm wcn esaiyifliam; kh mwickwic qewre wflhwn, wcn hlnel
wcn hfeniecre kh kge ywbu wk ghme; kh eukwfyiug qlicriqyeu wcn qlwrkireu hd
wnmiciuklwkihc dwxhlwfye kh kge ueralikt hd yifelkt wcn qlhqelkt, wcn kh
lenare ejqecueu kh bgwk iu cereuuwlt dhl kge aueday qalqhueu hd Vhxelcmeck.