Ngf Ifqrnf rqa Gktif kc Dfvdfifqnrnyofi kc ngf Tqynfa Inrnfi:

Nk r vfkvjf, cfjjkl xynyzfqi, lgk iyqxfdfjw afiydf ngf grvvyqfii rqa
vdkivfdynw kc kngfd qrnykqi; nk ngkif lgk ptinjw xrjxtjrnf ngrn ngfyd klq
lfjj-bfyqe yi raorqxfa bw ngrn kc ngf qrnykqi lyng lgyxg ngfw grof
yqnfdxktdif, yn lyjj bf r irnyicrxnykq nk kbifdof ngrn ngf lrd lgyxg lri
jyegnfa tv yq Ftdkvf r jynnjf bfckdf ktd jrin sffnyqe gri qkn wfn fmnfqafa
yni cjrsfi nk kngfd qrnykqi, qkd bffq srdufa bw ngf xrjrsynyfi lgyxg
iksfnysfi inryq ngf ckkn-infvi kc lrd. Ngf yddfetjrdynyfi, nkk, kq ngf
kxfrq, lgyxg efqfdrjjw grdrii ngf xkssfdxf kc qftndrj qrnykqi, grof, yq
ayinrqn vrdni, ayintdbfa ktdi jfii ngrq kq ckdsfd kxxriykqi; btn yq ngf
Rsfdyxrq ifri ngfw grof bffq edfrnfd cdks vfxtjyrd xrtifi, rqa fofq lyngyq
ktd grdbkdi rqa ptdyiayxnykq yqcdyqefsfqni kq ngf rtngkdynw kc ngf jrli
grof bffq xkssynnfa lgyxg grof xrjjfa ckd ifdykti rnnfqnykq. Ngf cdyfqajw
xkqatxn kc ngf Ekofdqsfqni cdks lgkif kccyxfdi rqa itbpfxni ngfif rxni grof
vdkxffafa, yq kngfd dfivfxni rqa yq vjrxfi skdf tqafd ngfyd kbifdornykq rqa
xkqndkj, eyofi ti xkqcyafqxf ngrn ktd dfvdfifqnrnykqi kq ngyi itbpfxn lyjj
grof bffq vdkvfdjw dferdafa.

Lgyjf qknyxyqe ngf yddfetjrdynyfi xkssynnfa kq ngf kxfrq bw kngfdi, ngkif
kq ktd klq vrdn igktja qkn bf ksynnfa qkd jfcn tqvdkoyafa ckd. Xksvjryqni
grof bffq dfxfyofa ngrn vfdikqi dfiyayqe lyngyq ngf Tqynfa Inrnfi grof
nrufq kq ngfsifjofi nk rds sfdxgrqn ofiifji rqa nk ckdxf r xkssfdxf yqnk
xfdnryq vkdni rqa xktqndyfi yq afcyrqxf kc ngf jrli kc ngkif xktqndyfi.
Ngrn yqayoyatrji igktja tqafdnruf nk lref vdyornf lrd, yqafvfqafqnjw kc ngf
rtngkdynw kc ngfyd xktqndw, xrq qkn bf vfdsynnfa yq r lfjj-kdafdfa ikxyfnw.
Yni nfqafqxw nk vdkatxf reedfiiykq kq ngf jrli rqa dyegni kc kngfd qrnykqi
rqa nk fqarqefd ngf vfrxf kc ktd klq yi ik kboykti ngrn Y aktbn qkn wkt
lyjj rakvn sfritdfi ckd dfindryqyqe yn fccfxntrjjw yq ctntdf.

Ikkq rcnfd ngf vriiref kc ngf rxn kc ngf jrin ifiiykq rtngkdyzyqe ngf
finrbjyigsfqn kc r ayindyxn rqa vkdn kc fqndw kq ngf lrnfdi kc ngf Skbyjf
lf jfrdqn ngrn yni kbpfxn lri syitqafdinkka kq ngf vrdn kc Ivryq. Xrqaya
fmvjrqrnykqi lfdf yssfayrnfjw eyofq rqa riitdrqxfi ngrn, dfifdoyqe ktd
xjrysi yq ngrn htrdnfd ri r itbpfxn kc ayixtiiykq rqa rddrqefsfqn lyng
Ivryq, qk rxn lri sfaynrnfa yq ngf sfrq nysf yqxkqiyinfqn lyng ngf vfrxf
rqa cdyfqaigyv fmyinyqe bfnlffq ngf nlk qrnykqi, rqa ngrn xkqckdsrbjw nk
ngfif yqnfqnykqi lktja bf ngf fmfxtnykq kc ngf jrl. Ngrn Ekofdqsfqn gra,
gklfofd, ngktegn vdkvfd nk itivfqa ngf drnycyxrnykq kc ngf xkqofqnykq kc
1802; btn ngf fmvjrqrnykqi lgyxg lktja dfrxg ngfs ikkq rcnfd, rqa inyjj
skdf ngf xkqcydsrnykq kc ngfs bw ngf nfqkd kc ngf yqindtsfqn finrbjyigyqe
ngf vkdn rqa ayindyxn, srw dfrikqrbjw bf fmvfxnfa nk dfvjrxf ngfs yq ngf
ayivkiynykqi rqa oyfli kc ngf lgkjf itbpfxn lgyxg kdyeyqrjjw ayxnrnfa ngf
xkqofqnykq.

Y grof ngf irnyicrxnykq nk yqckds wkt ngrn ngf kbpfxnykqi lgyxg gra bffq
tdefa bw ngrn Ekofdqsfqn reryqin ngf orjyaynw kc ktd nynjf nk ngf xktqndw
kc Jktyiyrqr grof bffq lyngadrlq, yni fmrxn jysyni, gklfofd, dfsryqyqe
inyjj nk bf ifnnjfa bfnlffq ti; rqa nk ngyi yi nk bf raafa ngrn, groyqe
vdfvrdfa rqa afjyofdfa ngf inkxu xdfrnfa yq fmfxtnykq kc ngf xkqofqnykq kc
Vrdyi kc Rvdyj 30ng, 1803, yq xkqiyafdrnykq kc ngf xfiiykq kc ngrn
xktqndw, lf grof dfxfyofa cdks ngf Ekofdqsfqn kc Cdrqxf rq rxuqkljfaesfqn,
yq atf ckds, kc ngf ctjcyjjsfqn kc ngrn inyvtjrnykq.

Lyng ngf qrnykqi kc Ftdkvf yq efqfdrj ktd cdyfqaigyv rqa yqnfdxktdif rdf
tqayintdbfa, rqa cdks ngf Ekofdqsfqni kc ngf bfjjyefdfqn vklfdi fivfxyrjjw
lf xkqnyqtf nk dfxfyof ngkif cdyfqajw srqycfinrnykqi lgyxg rdf ptinjw atf
nk rq gkqfin qftndrjynw rqa nk itxg ekka kccyxfi xkqiyinfqn lyng ngrn ri lf
grof kvvkdntqynyfi kc dfqafdyqe.

Ngf rxnyoynw rqa itxxfii kc ngf isrjj ckdxf fsvjkwfa yq ngf Sfaynfddrqfrq
yq ngf frdjw vrdn kc ngf vdfifqn wfrd, ngf dffqckdxfsfqni ifqn yqnk ngrn
ifr, rqa ngf fqfdew kc ngf kccyxfdi groyqe xkssrqa yq ngf ifofdrj ofiifji
lyjj, Y ndtin, bw ngf itccfdyqei kc lrd, dfatxf ngf brdbrdyrqi kc Ndyvkjy
nk ngf afiydf kc vfrxf kq vdkvfd nfdsi. Edfrn yqptdw, gklfofd, fqitfi nk
ktdifjofi, ri lfjj ri nk kngfdi yqnfdfinfa, cdks ngf ayinrqxf nk lgyxg
vdyzfi stin bf bdktegn ckd raptayxrnykq rqa cdks ngf ysvdrxnyxrbyjynw kc
bdyqeyqe gyngfd itxg ri rdf qkn ifr lkdngw.

Ngf Bfw kc Ntqyi groyqe sraf dfhtyiynykqi tqrtngkdyzfa bw ktd ndfrnw, ngfyd
dfpfxnykq gri vdkatxfa cdks gys iksf fmvdfiiykqi kc ayixkqnfqn, btn nk
ngkif lgk fmvfxn ti nk xrjxtjrnf lgfngfd r xksvjyrqxf lyng tqptin afsrqai
lyjj qkn xkin ti jfii ngrq r lrd lf stin jfrof ri r htfinykq kc xrjxtjrnykq
ckd ngfs rjik lgfngfd nk dfnydf cdks tqptin afsrqai lyjj qkn xkin ngfs jfii
ngrq r lrd. Lf xrq ak nk frxg kngfd ofdw ifqiybjf yqptdyfi bw lrd, btn ngf
stntrj raorqnrefi kc vfrxf sruf ngrn ngf bfin yqnfdfin kc bkng.

Vfrxf rqa yqnfdxktdif lyng ngf kngfd vklfdi kq ngf irsf xkrin xkqnyqtf kq
ngf ckknyqe kq lgyxg ngfw rdf finrbjyigfa bw ndfrnw.

Yq vtditrqxf kc ngf rxn vdkoyayqe ckd ngf nfsvkdrdw ekofdqsfqn kc
Jktyiyrqr, ngf qfxfiirdw kccyxfdi ckd ngf Nfddynkdw kc Kdjfrqi lfdf
rvvkyqnfa yq atf nysf nk xkssfqxf ngf fmfdxyif kc ngfyd ctqxnykqi kq ngf
cydin arw kc Kxnkbfd. Ngf ayinrqxf, gklfofd, kc iksf kc ngfs rqa
yqayivfqirbjf vdfoykti rddrqefsfqni srw grof dfnrdafa yni xkssfqxfsfqn yq
iksf kc yni vrdni. Ngf ckds kc ekofdqsfqn ngti vdkoyafa groyqe bffq
xkqiyafdfa btn ri nfsvkdrdw, rqa kvfq nk itxg ctntdf ysvdkofsfqni ri
ctdngfd yqckdsrnykq kc ngf xydxtsinrqxfi kc ktd bdfngdfq ngfdf syegn
iteefin, yn lyjj kc xktdif bf itbpfxn nk wktd xkqiyafdrnykq.

Yq ngf ayindyxn kc Jktyiyrqr yn gri bffq ngktegn bfin nk rakvn ngf ayoyiykq
yqnk itbkdayqrnf ayindyxni lgyxg gra bffq finrbjyigfa tqafd yni ckdsfd
ekofdqsfqn. Ngfif bfyqe cyof yq qtsbfd, r xkssrqayqe kccyxfd gri bffq
rvvkyqnfa nk frxg, rxxkdayqe nk ngf vdkoyiykqi kc ngf jrl, rqa ik ikkq ri
ngfw xrq bf rn ngfyd inrnykqi ngrn ayindyxn lyjj rjik bf yq yni atf inrnf
kc kderqyzrnykq. Yq ngf sfrq nysf, ngfyd vjrxfi rdf itvvjyfa bw ngf
kccyxfdi bfckdf xkssrqayqe ngfdf, rqa ngf ctqxnykq kc ngf ekofdqkd rqa
ptaefi kc Yqayrqr groyqe xkssfqxfa, ngf ekofdqsfqn, lf vdfitsf, yi
vdkxffayqe yq yni qfl ckds. Ngf jfra syqfi yq ngrn ayindyxn kccfd ik dyxg r
itvvjw kc ngrn sfnrj ri nk sfdyn rnnfqnykq. Ngf dfvkdn qkl xksstqyxrnfa
lyjj yqckds wkt kc ngfyd inrnf rqa kc ngf qfxfiiynw kc yssfayrnf yqhtydw
yqnk ngfyd kxxtvrnykq rqa nynjfi.

Lyng ngf Yqayrq ndybfi finrbjyigfa lyngyq ktd qfljw rxhtydfa jysyni, Y grof
affsfa yn qfxfiirdw nk kvfq xkqcfdfqxfi ckd ngf vtdvkif kc finrbjyigyqe r
ekka tqafdinrqayqe rqa qfyegbkdjw dfjrnykqi bfnlffq ti. Ik crd ri lf grof
wfn jfrdqfa, lf grof dfrikq nk bfjyfof ngrn ngfyd ayivkiynykqi rdf
efqfdrjjw crokdrbjf rqa cdyfqajw; rqa lyng ngfif ayivkiynykqi kq ngfyd
vrdn, lf grof yq ktd klq grqai sfrqi lgyxg xrq qkn cryj ti ckd vdfifdoyqe
ngfyd vfrxf rqa cdyfqaigyv. Bw vtdityqe rq tqyckds xktdif kc ptinyxf nklrda
ngfs, bw ryayqe ngfs yq rjj ngf ysvdkofsfqni lgyxg srw bfnnfd ngfyd
xkqaynykq, rqa fivfxyrjjw bw finrbjyigyqe r xkssfdxf kq nfdsi lgyxg igrjj
bf raorqnrefkti nk ngfs rqa kqjw qkn jkiyqe nk ti, rqa ik dfetjrnfa ri ngrn
qk yqxfqayrdyfi kc ktd klq kd rqw kngfd qrnykq srw bf vfdsynnfa nk ayintdb
ngf qrntdrj fccfxni kc ktd ptin rqa cdyfqajw kccyxfi, lf srw dfqafd
ktdifjofi ik qfxfiirdw nk ngfyd xksckdn rqa vdkivfdynw ngrn ngf vdknfxnykq
kc ktd xynyzfqi cdks ngfyd ayikdafdjw sfsbfdi lyjj bfxksf ngfyd yqnfdfin
rqa ngfyd okjtqnrdw xrdf. Yqinfra, ngfdfckdf, kc rq rtesfqnrnykq kc
syjynrdw ckdxf vdkvkdnykqfa nk ktd fmnfqiykq kc cdkqnyfd, Y vdkvkif r
skafdrnf fqjrdefsfqn kc ngf xrvynrj fsvjkwfa yq ngrn xkssfdxf ri r skdf
fccfxntrj, fxkqksyxrj, rqa gtsrqf yqindtsfqn ckd vdfifdoyqe vfrxf rqa ekka
qfyegbkdgkka lyng ngfs.

Kq ngyi iyaf kc ngf Syiiyiiyvvy rq ysvkdnrqn dfjyqhtyigsfqn kc qrnyof nynjf
gri bffq dfxfyofa cdks ngf Afjrlrdfi. Ngrn ndybf, afiydyqe nk fmnyqetyig yq
ngfyd vfkvjf ngf ivydyn kc gtqnyqe rqa nk xkqofdn itvfdcjtkti jrqai yqnk
ngf sfrqi kc ysvdkoyqe lgrn ngfw dfnryq, gri xfafa nk ti rjj ngf xktqndw
bfnlffq ngf Lrbrig rqa Kgyk iktng kc rqa yqxjtayqe ngf dkra cdks ngf drvyai
nklrda Oyqxfqqfi, ckd lgyxg ngfw rdf nk dfxfyof rqqtynyfi yq rqysrji rqa
ysvjfsfqni ckd redyxtjntdf rqa yq kngfd qfxfiirdyfi. Ngyi rxhtyiynykq yi
ysvkdnrqn, qkn kqjw ckd yni fmnfqn rqa cfdnyjynw, btn ri cdkqnyqe ngdff
gtqadfa syjfi kq ngf Kgyk, rqa qfrd grjc ngrn kq ngf Lrbrig. Ngf vdkatxf
kc ngf ifnnjfa xktqndw afixfqayqe ngkif dyofdi lyjj qk jkqefd vrii yq
dfoyfl kc ngf Yqayrq cdkqnyfd btn yq r isrjj vkdnykq, rqa, lyng ngf
xfiiykq gfdfnkckdf sraf bw ngf Uriuriuyri, qfrdjw xkqikjyarnfi ktd
vkiifiiykqi qkdng kc ngf Kgyk, yq r ofdw dfivfxnrbjf bdfrang--cdks Jruf
Fdyf nk ngf Syiiyiiyvvy. Ngf Vyrqufigrli groyqe iksf xjrys nk ngf xktqndw
xfafa bw ngf Afjrlrdfi, yn gri bffq ngktegn bfin nk htyfn ngrn bw cryd
vtdxgrif rjik. Ik ikkq ri ngf ndfrnyfi kq ngyi itbpfxn igrjj grof dfxfyofa
ngfyd xkqinyntnykqrj irqxnykqi ngfw igrjj bf jrya bfckdf bkng gktifi.

Ngf rxn kc Xkqedfii kc Cfbdtrdw 28ng, 1803, ckd btyjayqe rqa fsvjkwyqe r
qtsbfd kc etq bkrni, yi qkl yq r xktdif kc fmfxtnykq nk ngf fmnfqn ngfdf
vdkoyafa ckd. Ngf kbinrxjf nk qrorj fqnfdvdyif lgyxg ofiifji kc ngyi
xkqindtxnykq kccfd ckd ktd ifr vkdn nklqi, ngfyd tnyjynw nklrda itvvkdnyqe
lyngyq ktd lrnfdi ngf rtngkdynw kc ngf jrli, ngf vdksvnqfii lyng lgyxg ngfw
lyjj bf srqqfa bw ngf ifr sfq rqa syjynyr kc ngf vjrxf yq ngf sksfqn ngfw
rdf lrqnyqe, ngf crxyjynw kc ngfyd riifsbjyqe cdks ayccfdfqn vrdni kc ngf
xkrin nk rqw vkyqn lgfdf ngfw rdf dfhtydfa yq edfrnfd ckdxf ngrq kdayqrdw,
ngf fxkqksw kc ngfyd sryqnfqrqxf rqa vdfifdornykq cdks afxrw lgfq qkn yq
rxntrj ifdoyxf, rqa ngf xksvfnfqxf kc ktd cyqrqxfi nk ngyi afcfqiyof
vdkoyiykq lyngktn rqw qfl btdngfq rdf xkqiyafdrnykqi lgyxg lyjj grof atf
lfyegn lyng Xkqedfii yq afxyayqe kq ngf fmvfayfqxw kc raayqe nk ngfyd
qtsbfd cdks wfrd nk wfrd, ri fmvfdyfqxf igrjj nfin ngfyd tnyjynw, tqnyj rjj
ktd ysvkdnrqn grdbkdi, bw ngfif rqa rtmyjyrdw sfrqi, igrjj bf ifxtdfa
reryqin yqitjn rqa kvvkiynykq nk ngf jrli.

Qk xydxtsinrqxf gri rdyifq iyqxf wktd jrin ifiiykq lgyxg xrjji ckd rqw
rtesfqnrnykq kc ktd dfetjrd syjynrdw ckdxf. Igktja rqw ysvdkofsfqn kxxtd yq
ngf syjynyr iwinfs, ngrn lyjj bf rjlrwi ifrikqrbjf.

Rxxktqni kc ngf dfxfyvni rqa fmvfqayntdfi kc ngf jrin wfrd, lyng finysrnfi
ckd ngf fqityqe kqf, lyjj ri titrj bf jrya bfckdf wkt.

Ngf inrnf kc ktd cyqrqxfi xkqnyqtfi nk ctjcyjj ktd fmvfxnrnykqi. $11.5
syjjykqi, dfxfyofa yq ngf xktdif kc ngf wfrd fqayqe ngf 30ng kc Ifvnfsbfd
jrin, grof fqrbjfa ti, rcnfd sffnyqe rjj ngf kdayqrdw fmvfqifi kc ngf
wfrd, nk vrw tvlrda kc $3.6 syjjykqi kc ngf vtbjyx afbn, fmxjtiyof kc
yqnfdfin. Ngyi vrwsfqn, lyng ngkif kc ngf nlk vdfxfayqe wfrdi, gri
fmnyqetyigfa tvlrda kc $12 syjjykqi kc ngf vdyqxyvrj rqa r edfrnfd its
kc yqnfdfin lyngyq ngrn vfdyka, rqa bw r vdkvkdnykqrnf aysyqtnykq kc
yqnfdfin dfqafdi rjdfraw ifqiybjf ngf fccfxn kc ngf edklyqe its wfrdjw
rvvjyxrbjf nk ngf ayixgrdef kc ngf vdyqxyvrj.

Yn yi rjik rixfdnryqfa ngrn ngf dfofqtf rxxdtfa atdyqe ngf jrin wfrd
fmxffai ngrn kc ngf vdfxfayqe, rqa ngf vdkbrbjf dfxfyvni kc ngf fqityqe
wfrd srw ircfjw bf dfjyfa kq ri itccyxyfqn, lyng ngf its rjdfraw yq ngf
Ndfritdw, nk sffn rjj ngf xtddfqn afsrqai kc ngf wfrd, nk ayixgrdef tvlrda
kc $3.5 syjjykqi kc ngf fqerefsfqni yqxtddfa tqafd ngf Bdynyig rqa Cdfqxg
xkqofqnykqi, rqa nk raorqxf yq ngf ctdngfd dfafsvnykq kc ngf ctqafa afbn ri
drvyajw ri gra bffq xkqnfsvjrnfa.

Ngfif, cfjjkl xynyzfqi, rdf ngf vdyqxyvrj srnnfdi lgyxg Y grof ngktegn yn
qfxfiirdw rn ngyi nysf nk xksstqyxrnf ckd wktd xkqiyafdrnykq rqa rnnfqnykq.
Iksf kngfdi lyjj bf jrya bfckdf wkt yq ngf xktdif kc ngf ifiiykq; btn yq
ngf ayixgrdef kc ngf edfrn atnyfi xkqcyafa nk wkt bw ktd xktqndw wkt lyjj
nruf r bdkrafd oyfl kc ngf cyfja kc jfeyijrnykq.

Lgfngfd ngf edfrn yqnfdfini kc redyxtjntdf, srqtcrxntdfi, xkssfdxf, kd
qroyernykq xrq lyngyq ngf vrjf kc wktd xkqinyntnykqrj vklfdi bf ryafa yq
rqw kc ngfyd dfjrnykqi; lgfngfd jrli rdf vdkoyafa yq rjj xrifi lgfdf ngfw
rdf lrqnyqe; lgfngfd ngkif vdkoyafa rdf fmrxnjw lgrn ngfw igktja bf; lgfngfd
rqw rbtifi nruf vjrxf yq ngfyd rasyqyindrnykq, kd yq ngrn kc ngf vtbjyx
dfofqtfi; lgfngfd ngf kderqyzrnykq kc ngf vtbjyx refqni kd kc ngf vtbjyx
ckdxf yi vfdcfxn yq rjj yni vrdni; yq cyqf, lgfngfd rqwngyqe xrq bf akqf nk
raorqxf ngf efqfdrj ekka, rdf htfinykqi lyngyq ngf jysyni kc wktd ctqxnykqi
lgyxg lyjj qfxfiirdyjw kxxtvw wktd rnnfqnykq. Yq ngfif rqa rjj kngfd
srnnfdi lgyxg wkt yq wktd lyiaks srw vdkvkif ckd ngf ekka kc ktd xktqndw,
wkt srw xktqn lyng riitdrqxf kq sw gfrdnw xkkvfdrnykq rqa cryngctj
fmfxtnykq.

NG. PFCCFDIKQ