Vik Qkeavk aeh Ijmqk jo Rkurkqkevavtbkq jo vik Metvkh Qvavkq:

Ytrymzqvaeykq, okwwjx ytvtgkeq, xityi qkrtjmqwd virkavkekh vik ukayk jo jmr
yjmevrd iabk zahk tv a hmvd vj yjebkek djm av ae karwtkr ukrtjh viae mqmaw.
Vik wjbk jo ukayk qj zmyi yikrtqikh te vik sjqjzq jo jmr ytvtgkeq, xityi
iaq qj wjef fmthkh vik urjykkhtefq jo viktr umswty yjmeytwq aeh tehmykh
ojrskaraeyk mehkr qj zaed xrjefq, zad ejv teqmrk jmr yjevtemaeyk te vik
pmtkv umrqmtvq jo tehmqvrd. Vik zaed telmrtkq aeh hkurkhavtjeq yjzztvvkh je
jmr yjzzkryk aeh eabtfavtje muje vik itfi qkaq ojr dkarq uaqv, vik
qmyykqqtbk teejbavtjeq je vijqk urteytuwkq jo umswty wax xityi iabk skke
kqvaswtqikh sd vik rkaqje aeh mqafk jo eavtjeq aq vik rmwk jo viktr
tevkryjmrqk aeh vik mzutrk aeh qkymrtvd jo viktr rtfivq aeh ukayk, aeh aww
vik ytrymzqvaeykq xityi tehmykh vik knvrajrhteard ztqqtje vj Wjehje ark
awrkahd cejxe vj djm.

Vik teqvrmyvtjeq ftbke vj jmr ztetqvkrq xkrk orazkh te vik qteykrkqv qutrtv
jo aztvd aeh zjhkravtje. Vikd ayyjrhtefwd urjykkhkh, te yjeojrztvd
vikrkxtvi, vj urjujqk arraefkzkevq xityi ztfiv kzsrayk aeh qkvvwk aww vik
ujtevq te htookrkeyk skvxkke mq, xityi ztfiv srtef mq vj a zmvmaw
mehkrqvaehtef je jmr ekmvraw aeh eavtjeaw rtfivq aeh urjbthk ojr a
yjzzkrytaw tevkryjmrqk je yjehtvtjeq jo qjzk kpmawtvd. Aovkr wjef aeh
ormtvwkqq kehkabjrq vj kookyv vik umrujqkq jo viktr ztqqtje aeh vj jsvate
arraefkzkevq xtvite vik wtztvq jo viktr teqvrmyvtjeq, vikd yjeywmhkh vj
qtfe qmyi aq yjmwh sk jsvatekh aeh vj qkeh vikz ojr yjeqthkravtje, yaehthwd
hkywartef vj vik jvikr ekfjvtavjrq av vik qazk vtzk viav vikd xkrk ayvtef
afateqv viktr teqvrmyvtjeq, aeh viav viktr Fjbkrezkev, vikrkojrk, yjmwh ejv
sk uwkhfkh ojr ravtotyavtje.

Qjzk jo vik arvtywkq urjujqkh ztfiv iabk skke ahztvvkh je a urteytuwk jo
yjzurjztqk, smv jvikrq xkrk vjj itfiwd htqahbaevafkjmq, aeh ej qmootytkev
urjbtqtje xaq zahk afateqv vik urteytuaw qjmryk jo vik trrtvavtjeq aeh
yjwwtqtjeq xityi xkrk yjeqvaevwd kehaefkrtef vik ukayk jo vik vxj eavtjeq.
Vik pmkqvtje, vikrkojrk, xikvikr a vrkavd qijmwh sk ayykuvkh te viav ojrz
yjmwh iabk ahztvvkh smv jo jek hkytqtje, kbke iah ej hkywaravtjeq jo vik
jvikr uarvd tzuatrkh jmr yjeothkeyk te tv. Qvtww aentjmq ejv vj ywjqk vik
hjjr afateqv ortkehwd ahlmqvzkev, ekx zjhtotyavtjeq xkrk orazkh aeh omrvikr
yjeykqqtjeq amvijrtgkh viae yjmwh skojrk iabk skke qmuujqkh ekykqqard; aeh
jmr ztetqvkrq xkrk teqvrmyvkh vj rkqmzk viktr ekfjvtavtjeq je vikqk
frjmehq.

Je vitq ekx rkokrkeyk vj aztyaswk htqymqqtje xk xkrk rkujqtef te
yjeothkeyk, xike je vik 22eh had jo Lmek waqv sd a ojrzaw jrhkr orjz a
Srtvtqi ahztraw vik ortfavk Yikqaukack, wkabtef ikr ujrv ojr a htqvaev
qkrbtyk, xaq avvayckh sd jek jo vijqk bkqqkwq xityi iah skke wdtef te jmr
iarsjrq mehkr vik tehmwfkeykq jo ijqutvawtvd, xaq htqaswkh orjz urjykkhtef,
iah qkbkraw jo ikr yrkx ctwwkh aeh ojmr vacke axad. Je vitq jmvrafk ej
yjzzkevartkq ark ekykqqard. Tvq yiarayvkr iaq skke urjejmeykh sd vik
tehtfeaev bjtykq jo jmr ytvtgkeq xtvi ae kzuiaqtq aeh meaetztvd ekbkr
knykkhkh. T tzzkhtavkwd, sd urjywazavtje, tevkrhtyvkh jmr iarsjrq aeh
xavkrq vj aww Srtvtqi arzkh bkqqkwq, ojrsahk tevkryjmrqk xtvi vikz, aeh
meykrvate ijx oar ijqvtwtvtkq xkrk tevkehkh, aeh vik vjxe jo Ejrojwc,
tehkkh, sktef virkavkekh xtvi tzzkhtavk avvayc, a qmootytkev ojryk xaq
jrhkrkh ojr vik urjvkyvtje jo viav uwayk, aeh qmyi jvikr urkuaravtjeq
yjzzkeykh aeh umrqmkh aq vik urjqukyv rkehkrkh urjukr. Ae arzkh bkqqkw jo
vik Metvkh Qvavkq xaq htquavyikh xtvi teqvrmyvtjeq vj jmr ztetqvkrq av
Wjehje vj yaww je viav Fjbkrezkev ojr vik qavtqoayvtje aeh qkymrtvd
rkpmtrkh sd vik jmvrafk. A bkrd qijrv tevkrbaw jmfiv ejx vj srtef vik
aeqxkr, xityi qiaww sk yjzzmetyavkh vj djm aq qjje aq rkyktbkh; vike awqj,
jr aq qjje aovkr aq vik umswty tevkrkqvq qiaww sk ojmeh vj ahztv, vik
meravtotkh vrkavd aeh urjykkhtefq rkwavtbk vj tv qiaww sk zahk cejxe vj
djm.

Vik affrkqqtje vimq skfme iaq skke yjevtemkh je vik uarv jo vik Srtvtqi
yjzzaehkrq sd rkzatetef xtvite jmr xavkrq te hkotaeyk jo vik amvijrtvd jo
vik yjmevrd, sd iastvmaw btjwavtjeq jo tvq lmrtqhtyvtje, aeh av wkefvi sd
umvvtef vj hkavi jek jo vik ukrqjeq xijz vikd iah ojrytswd vacke orjz je
sjarh vik Yikqaukack. Vikqk affrabavtjeq ekykqqartwd wkah vj vik ujwtyd
ktvikr jo ekbkr ahztvvtef ae arzkh bkqqkw tevj jmr iarsjrq jr jo
zatevatetef te kbkrd iarsjr qmyi ae arzkh ojryk aq zad yjeqvrate jskhtkeyk
vj vik waxq aeh urjvkyv vik wtbkq aeh urjukrvd jo jmr ytvtgkeq afateqv
viktr arzkh fmkqvq; smv vik knukeqk jo qmyi a qvaehtef ojryk aeh tvq
teyjeqtqvkeyk xtvi jmr urteytuwkq htqukeqk xtvi vijqk yjmrvkqtkq xityi
xjmwh ekykqqartwd yaww ojr tv, aeh wkabk mq kpmawwd orkk vj knywmhk vik
eabd, aq xk ark vik arzd, jo a ojrktfe ujxkr orjz kevkrtef jmr wtztvq.

Vj ojrzkr btjwavtjeq jo zartvtzk rtfivq aejvikr tq ejx ahhkh jo bkrd
knvkeqtbk kookyv. Vik Fjbkrezkev jo viav eavtje iaq tqqmkh ae jrhkr
tevkrhtyvtef aww vrahk sd ekmvrawq skvxkke ujrvq ejv te aztvd xtvi vikz;
aeh sktef ejx av xar xtvi ekarwd kbkrd eavtje je vik Avwaevty aeh
Zkhtvkrraekae qkaq, jmr bkqqkwq ark rkpmtrkh vj qayrtotyk viktr yarfjkq av
vik otrqv ujrv vikd vjmyi jr vj rkvmre ijzk xtvijmv vik skekotv jo fjtef vj
aed jvikr zarckv. Mehkr vitq ekx wax jo vik jykae jmr vrahk je vik
Zkhtvkrraekae iaq skke qxkuv axad sd qktgmrkq aeh yjehkzeavtjeq, aeh viav
te jvikr qkaq tq virkavkekh xtvi vik qazk oavk.

Jmr htookrkeykq xtvi Quate rkzate qvtww meqkvvwkh, ej zkaqmrk iabtef skke
vacke je ikr uarv qteyk zd waqv yjzzmetyavtjeq vj Yjefrkqq vj srtef vikz vj
a ywjqk. Smv mehkr a qvavk jo vitefq xityi zad oabjr rkyjeqthkravtje vikd
iabk skke rkykevwd urkqqkh, aeh ae knukyvavtje tq kevkrvatekh viav vikd zad
ejx qjje sk srjmfiv vj ae tqqmk jo qjzk qjrv. Xtvi viktr qmslkyvq je jmr
sjrhkrq ej ekx yjwwtqtjeq iabk vacke uwayk ejr qkkz tzzkhtavkwd vj sk
auurkikehkh. Vj jmr ojrzkr frjmehq jo yjzuwatev iaq skke ahhkh a bkrd
qkrtjmq jek, aq djm xtww qkk sd vik hkyrkk a yjud jo xityi tq ejx
yjzzmetyavkh. Xikvikr vitq hkyrkk, xityi urjokqqkq vj sk yjeojrzaswk vj
viav jo vik Orkeyi Fjbkrezkev jo Ejbkzskr 21qv, 1806, ikrkvjojrk
yjzzmetyavkh vj Yjefrkqq, xtww awqj sk yjeojrzkh vj viav te tvq
yjeqvrmyvtje aeh auuwtyavtje te rkwavtje vj vik Metvkh Qvavkq iah ejv
skke aqykrvatekh av vik havk jo jmr waqv yjzzmetyavtjeq. Vikqk, ijxkbkr,
fabk rkaqje vj knukyv qmyi a yjeojrztvd.

Xtvi vik jvikr eavtjeq jo Kmrjuk jmr iarzjed iaq skke metevkrrmuvkh, aeh
yjzzkryk aeh ortkehwd tevkryjmrqk iabk skke zatevatekh je viktr mqmaw
ojjvtef.

Jmr ukayk xtvi vik qkbkraw qvavkq je vik yjaqv jo Sarsard auukarq aq otrz
aq av aed ojrzkr ukrtjh aeh aq wtckwd vj yjevtemk aq viav jo aed jvikr
eavtje.

Azjef jmr Tehtae ektfisjrq te vik ejrvixkqvkre pmarvkr qjzk okrzkevavtje
xaq jsqkrbkh qjje aovkr vik wavk jyymrrkeykq, virkavketef vik yjevtemaeyk
jo jmr ukayk. Zkqqafkq xkrk qath vj sk tevkryiaefkh aeh vjckeq vj sk
uaqqtef, xityi mqmawwd hkejvk a qvavk jo rkqvwkqq azjef vikz, aeh vik
yiarayvkr jo vik aftvavjrq ujtevkh vj vik qjmrykq jo knytvkzkev. Zkaqmrkq
xkrk tzzkhtavkwd vacke ojr urjbthtef afateqv viav haefkr; teqvrmyvtjeq xkrk
ftbke vj rkpmtrk knuwaeavtjeq, aeh, xtvi aqqmraeykq jo jmr yjevtemkh
ortkehqitu, vj ahzjetqi vik vrtskq vj rkzate pmtkv av ijzk, vactef ej uarv
te pmarrkwq ejv skwjeftef vj vikz. Aq oar aq xk ark dkv teojrzkh, vik
vrtskq te jmr btytetvd, xij ark zjqv ahbaeykh te vik umrqmtvq jo tehmqvrd,
ark qteykrkwd htqujqkh vj ahikrk vj viktr ortkehqitu xtvi mq aeh vj viktr
ukayk xtvi aww jvikrq, xitwk vijqk zjrk rkzjvk hj ejv urkqkev auukaraeykq
qmootytkevwd pmtkv vj lmqvtod vik tevkrztqqtje jo ztwtvard urkyamvtje je
jmr uarv.

Vik frkav vrtskq je jmr qjmvixkqvkre pmarvkr, zmyi ahbaeykh skdjeh vik
jvikrq te afrtymwvmrk aeh ijmqkijwh arvq, auukar vraepmtw aeh thkevtodtef
viktr btkxq xtvi jmrq te urjujrvtje vj viktr ahbaeykzkev. Xtvi vik xijwk jo
vikqk ukjuwk, te kbkrd pmarvkr, T qiaww yjevtemk vj teymwyavk ukayk aeh
ortkehqitu xtvi aww viktr ektfisjrq aeh ukrqkbkraeyk te vijqk jyymuavtjeq
aeh umrqmtvq xityi xtww skqv urjzjvk viktr jxe xkww-sktef.

Vik auurjurtavtjeq jo vik waqv qkqqtje ojr vik hkokeqk jo jmr qka ujrv
vjxeq aeh iarsjrq xkrk zahk mehkr knukyvavtje viav a yjevtemaeyk jo jmr
ukayk xjmwh ukrztv mq vj urjykkh te viav xjrc ayyjrhtef vj jmr yjebketkeyk.
Tv iaq skke vijmfiv skvvkr vj auuwd vik qmzq vike ftbke vjxarh vik hkokeqk
jo Ekx Djrc, Yiarwkqvje, aeh Ekx Jrwkaeq yitkowd, aq zjqv juke aeh zjqv
wtckwd otrqv vj ekkh urjvkyvtje, aeh vj wkabk uwaykq wkqq tzzkhtavkwd te
haefkr vj vik urjbtqtjeq jo vik urkqkev qkqqtje.

Vik fme sjavq, vjj, awrkahd urjbthkh iabk je a wtck urteytuwk skke yitkowd
aqqtfekh vj Ekx Djrc, Ekx Jrwkaeq, aeh vik Yikqaukack. Xikvikr jmr zjbaswk
ojryk je vik xavkr, qj zavkrtaw te ath jo vik hkokeqtbk xjrcq je vik waeh,
qijmwh sk amfzkevkh te vitq jr aed jvikr ojrz tq wkov vj vik xtqhjz jo vik
Wkftqwavmrk. Ojr vik umrujqk jo zaeetef vikqk bkqqkwq te qmhhke avvaycq je
jmr iarsjrq tv tq a zavvkr ojr yjeqthkravtje xikvikr vik qka zke jo vik
Metvkh Qvavkq zad ejv lmqvwd sk ojrzkh tevj a qukytaw ztwtvta, vj sk yawwkh
je ojr vjmrq jo hmvd te hkokeqk jo vik iarsjrq xikrk vikd qiaww iauuke vj
sk, vik jrhteard ztwtvta jo vik uwayk omretqitef viav ujrvtje xityi zad
yjeqtqv jo waehqzke.

Vik zjzkev jmr ukayk xaq virkavkekh T hkkzkh tv tehtqukeqaswk vj qkymrk a
frkavkr urjbtqtje jo vijqk arvtywkq jo ztwtvard qvjrkq xtvi xityi jmr
zafagtekq xkrk ejv qmootytkevwd omretqikh. Vj iabk axatvkh a urkbtjmq aeh
qukytaw qaeyvtje sd wax xjmwh iabk wjqv jyyaqtjeq xityi ztfiv ejv sk
rkvrtkbkh. T hth ejv ikqtvavk, vikrkojrk, vj amvijrtgk kefafkzkevq ojr qmyi
qmuuwkzkevq vj jmr kntqvtef qvjyc aq xjmwh rkehkr tv ahkpmavk vj vik
kzkrfkeytkq virkavketef mq, aeh T vrmqv viav vik Wkftqwavmrk, okkwtef vik
qazk aentkvd ojr vik qaokvd jo jmr yjmevrd, qj zavkrtawwd ahbaeykh sd vitq
urkyamvtje, xtww auurjbk, xike hjek, xiav vikd xjmwh iabk qkke qj tzujrvaev
vj sk hjek to vike aqqkzswkh. Knukeqkq, awqj meurjbthkh ojr, arjqk jmv jo
vik ekykqqtvd jo yawwtef aww jmr fme sjavq tevj ayvmaw qkrbtyk ojr vik
hkokeqk jo jmr iarsjrq; aww jo xityi ayyjmevq xtww sk wath skojrk djm.

Xikvikr a rkfmwar arzd tq vj sk ratqkh, aeh vj xiav knvkev, zmqv hkukeh je
vik teojrzavtje qj qijrvwd knukyvkh. Te vik zkae vtzk T iabk yawwkh je vik
Qvavkq ojr pmjvaq jo ztwtvta, vj sk te rkahtekqq ojr urkqkev hkokeqk, aeh
iabk, zjrkjbkr, keyjmrafkh vik ayykuvaeyk jo bjwmevkkrq; aeh T az iauud vj
teojrz djm viav vikqk iabk jookrkh vikzqkwbkq xtvi frkav awayrtvd te kbkrd
uarv jo vik Metje. Vikd ark jrhkrkh vj sk jrfaetgkh aeh rkahd av a
zjzkev'q xaretef vj urjykkh je aed qkrbtyk vj xityi vikd zad sk
yawwkh, aeh kbkrd urkuaravtje xtvite vik Knkymvtbk ujxkrq iaq skke zahk vj
teqmrk mq vik skekotv jo karwd knkrvtjeq.

T teojrzkh Yjefrkqq av viktr waqv qkqqtje jo vik kevkrurtqkq afateqv vik
umswty ukayk xityi xkrk skwtkbkh vj sk te urkuaravtje sd Aarje Smrr aeh itq
aqqjytavkq, jo vik zkaqmrkq vacke vj hkokav vikz aeh vj srtef vik jookehkrq
vj lmqvtyk. Viktr kevkrurtqkq xkrk iauutwd hkokavkh sd vik uavrtjvty
knkrvtjeq jo vik ztwtvta xikekbkr yawwkh tevj ayvtje, sd vik othkwtvd jo
vik Arzd, aeh kekrfd jo vik yjzzaehkr te yitko te urjzuvwd arraeftef vik
htootymwvtkq urkqkevtef vikzqkwbkq je vik Qastek, rkuatrtef vj zkkv vijqk
artqtef je vik Ztqqtqqtuut, aeh htqqtuavtef skojrk viktr knuwjqtje uwjvq
kefkehkrtef vikrk. T qiaww vitec tv zd hmvd vj wad skojrk djm vik
urjykkhtefq aeh vik kbthkeyk umswtywd knitstvkh je vik arratfezkev jo vik
urteytuaw jookehkrq skojrk vik ytrymtv yjmrv jo Btrfteta.

Djm xtww sk keaswkh vj lmhfk xikvikr vik hkokyv xaq te vik vkqvtzjed, te
vik wax, jr te vik ahztetqvravtje jo vik wax; aeh xikrkbkr tv qiaww sk
ojmeh, vik Wkftqwavmrk awjek yae auuwd jr jrtfteavk vik rkzkhd. Vik orazkrq
jo jmr Yjeqvtvmvtje ykrvatewd qmuujqkh vikd iah fmarhkh aq xkww viktr
Fjbkrezkev afateqv hkqvrmyvtje sd vrkaqje aq viktr ytvtgkeq afateqv
juurkqqtje mehkr urkvkeqk jo tv, aeh to vikqk kehq ark ejv avvatekh tv tq
jo tzujrvaeyk vj tepmtrk sd xiav zkaeq zjrk kookyvmaw vikd zad sk qkymrkh.

Vik ayyjmevq jo vik rkyktuvq jo rkbkemk hmrtef vik dkar kehtef je vik 30vi
had jo Qkuvkzskr waqv sktef ejv dkv zahk mu, a yjrrkyv qvavkzkev xtww sk
ikrkaovkr vraeqztvvkh orjz vik Vrkaqmrd. Te vik zkae vtzk, tv tq
aqykrvatekh viav vik rkyktuvq iabk azjmevkh vj ekar $16 ztwwtjeq, xityi,
xtvi vik $5.5 ztwwtjeq te vik Vrkaqmrd av vik skfteetef jo vik dkar, iabk
keaswkh mq, aovkr zkkvtef vik ymrrkev hkzaehq aeh tevkrkqv teymrrkh, vj
uad zjrk viae $4 ztwwtjeq jo vik urteytuaw jo jmr omehkh hksv. Vikqk
uadzkevq, xtvi vijqk jo vik urkykhtef otbk aeh a iawo dkarq, iabk
knvtefmtqikh jo vik omehkh hksv $25.5 ztwwtjeq, sktef vik xijwk xityi
yjmwh sk uath jr umryiaqkh xtvite vik wtztvq jo vik wax aeh jo jmr
yjevrayvq, aeh iabk wkov mq te vik Vrkaqmrd $8.5 ztwwtjeq.

A ujrvtje jo vitq qmz zad sk yjeqthkrkh aq a yjzzkeykzkev jo ayymzmwavtje
jo vik qmruwmqkq jo rkbkemk xityi, aovkr uadtef vik teqvawwzkevq jo hksv aq
vikd qiaww skyjzk uadaswk, xtww rkzate xtvijmv aed qukytoty jslkyv. Tv zad
uarvwd, tehkkh, sk auuwtkh vjxarh yjzuwkvtef vik hkokeqk jo vik knujqkh
ujtevq jo jmr yjmevrd, je qmyi a qyawk aq qiaww sk ahauvkh vj jmr
urteytuwkq aeh ytrymzqvaeykq. Vitq jslkyv tq hjmsvwkqq azjef vik otrqv
kevtvwkh vj avvkevtje te qmyi a qvavk jo jmr oteaeykq, aeh tv tq jek xityi,
xikvikr xk iabk ukayk jr xar, xtww urjbthk qkymrtvd xikrk tv tq hmk.
Xikvikr xiav qiaww rkzate jo vitq, xtvi vik omvmrk qmruwmqkq, zad sk
mqkomwwd auuwtkh vj umrujqkq awrkahd amvijrtgkh jr zjrk mqkomwwd vj jvikrq
rkpmtrtef ekx amvijrtvtkq, jr ijx jvikrxtqk vikd qiaww sk htqujqkh jo, ark
pmkqvtjeq yawwtef ojr vik ejvtyk jo Yjefrkqq, mewkqq, tehkkh, vikd qiaww sk
qmukrqkhkh sd a yiaefk te jmr umswty rkwavtjeq ejx axatvtef vik
hkvkrzteavtje jo jvikrq. Xiavkbkr sk viav hkvkrzteavtje, tv tq a frkav
yjeqjwavtje viav tv xtww skyjzk cejxe av a zjzkev xike vik qmurkzk yjmeytw
jo vik eavtje tq aqqkzswkh av tvq ujqv, aeh rkahd vj ftbk vik athq jo tvq
xtqhjz aeh amvijrtvd vj xiavkbkr yjmrqk vik fjjh jo jmr yjmevrd qiaww vike
yaww mq vj umrqmk.

Zavvkrq jo ztejr tzujrvaeyk xtww sk vik qmslkyvq jo omvmrk yjzzmetyavtjeq,
aeh ejvitef qiaww sk xaevtef je zd uarv xityi zad ftbk teojrzavtje jr
htquavyi vj vik urjykkhtefq jo vik Wkftqwavmrk te vik knkrytqk jo viktr
itfi hmvtkq, aeh av a zjzkev qj tevkrkqvtef vj vik umswty xkwoark.

VI. LKOOKRQJE