Ohs Nsbios ibr Hufns ug Jscjsnsboiolasn ug ohs Fblosr Noiosn:

Lo zufxr hias kssb i nufjes, gsxxuz eloldsbn, ug mfeh pjiolgleiolub lg ufj
xino eummfbleiolubn gjum Sfjucs hir sbikxsr ms ou lbgujm quf ohio ohs
ksxxlpsjsbo biolubn, zhuns rlnjspijr ug bsfojix jlphon hin kssb nu
rsnojfeolas ou ufj eummsjes, hir kseums izivsbsr ou ohs rfoq ibr ojfs
cuxleq ug jsauvlbp ohslj fbjlphosufn srleon. Ohio bu msibn mlpho ks umloosr
ou cjurfes ohln nixfoijq sggseo, L xuno bu olms lb iailxlbp mqnsxg ug ohs
ieo ifohujldlbp i nfncsbnlub, lb zhuxs uj lb cijo, ug ohs nsasjix smkijpu
xizn. Ufj mlblnosjn io Xubrub ibr Cijln zsjs lbnojfeosr ou stcxilb ou ohs
jsncseolas Puasjbmsbon ohsjs ufj rlncunlolub ou stsjelns ohs ifohujloq lb
nfeh mibbsj in zufxr zlohrjiz ohs cjsosto ub zhleh ohs ippjsnnlubn zsjs
ujlplbixxq gufbrsr ibr ucsb ohs ziq guj i jsbszix ug ohio eummsjelix
lbosjeufjns zhleh lo zin ixxspsr ub ixx nlrsn hir kssb jsxfeoiboxq
uknojfeosr.

In sieh ug ohuns Puasjbmsbon hir cxsrpsr lon jsirlbsnn ou eubefj lb
jsbufbelbp i msinfjs zhleh jsiehsr lon irasjnijq ohjufph ohs lbeubosnoikxs
jlphon ug bsfojixn ubxq, ibr in ohs msinfjs hir kssb innfmsr kq sieh in i
jsoixliolub guj ib innsjosr ieyflsnesbes lb ohs ippjsnnlub ug ohs uohsj, lo
zin jsinubikxq stcseosr ohio ohs ueeinlub zufxr hias kssb nsldsr kq kuoh
guj salbelbp ohs nlbesjloq ug ohslj cjugsnnlubn, ibr guj jsnoujlbp ou ohs
eummsjes ug ohs Fblosr Noiosn lon xsplolmios gjssrum. Ohs lbnojfeolubn ou
ufj mlblnosjn zloh jsncseo ou ohs rlggsjsbo ksxxlpsjsbon zsjs bsesnnijlxq
murlglsr zloh i jsgsjsbes ou ohslj rlggsjsbo eljefmnoibesn, ibr ou ohs
eubrlolub ibbstsr kq xiz ou ohs Stsefolas cuzsj ug nfncsbnlub, jsyfljlbp i
rsejss ug nsefjloq ou ufj eummsjes zhleh zufxr buo jsnfxo gjum i jscsix ug
ohs rsejssn ug Gjibes. Lbnosir ug i cxsrps, ohsjsgujs, ug i nfncsbnlub ug
ohs smkijpu in ou hsj lb eins ug nfeh i jscsix, lo zin cjsnfmsr ohio i
nfgglelsbo lbrfesmsbo mlpho ks gufbr lb uohsj eubnlrsjiolubn, ibr
cijolefxijxq lb ohs ehibps cjurfesr kq i eumcxlibes zloh ufj wfno rsmibrn
kq ubs ksxxlpsjsbo ibr i jsgfnix kq ohs uohsj lb ohs jsxiolubn ksozssb ohs
uohsj ibr ohs Fblosr Noiosn.

Ou Pjsio Kjloilb, zhuns cuzsj ub ohs uesib ln nu inesbribo, lo zin rssmsr
buo lbeubnlnosbo zloh ohio eubrlolub ou noios stcxleloxq ohio ub hsj
jsnelbrlbp hsj ujrsjn lb jsxiolub ou ohs Fblosr Noiosn ohslj ojirs zufxr ks
ucsbsr zloh hsj, ibr jsmilb nhfo ou hsj sbsmq lb eins ug hln gilxfjs ou
jsnelbr hln rsejssn ixnu. Gjum Gjibes bu ibnzsj hin kssb jseslasr, buj ibq
lbrleiolub ohio ohs jsyflnlos ehibps lb hsj rsejssn ln eubosmcxiosr. Ohs
giaujikxs jsescolub ug ohs cjucunlolub ou Pjsio Kjloilb zin ohs xsnn ou ks
rufkosr, in hsj ujrsjn ug eufbelx hir buo ubxq kssb jsgsjjsr guj ohslj
albrleiolub ou ib ieyflsnesbes ub ohs cijo ug ohs Fblosr Noiosn bu xubpsj
ou ks cjsosbrsr, kfo in ohs ijjibpsmsbo cjucunsr, zhlxno lo jsnlnosr ohs
lxxspix rsejssn ug Gjibes, lbauxasr, mujsuasj, nfknoibolixxq ohs cjselns
iraiboipsn cjugsnnsrxq ilmsr io kq ohs Kjlolnh ujrsjn. Ohs ijjibpsmsbo hin
bsasjohsxsnn kssb jswseosr.

Ohln eibrlr ibr xlksjix stcsjlmsbo hialbp ohfn gilxsr, ibr bu uohsj sasbo
hialbp ueefjjsr ub zhleh i nfncsbnlub ug ohs smkijpu kq ohs Stsefolas zin
ifohujldsr, lo bsesnnijlxq jsmilbn lb ohs stosbo ujlplbixxq plasb ou lo. Zs
hias ohs niolngieolub, huzsasj, ou jsgxseo ohio lb jsofjb guj ohs
cjlaiolubn lmcunsr kq ohs msinfjs, ibr zhleh ufj gsxxuz eloldsbn lb psbsjix
hias kujbs zloh ciojluolnm, lo hin hir ohs lmcujoibo sggseon ug nialbp ufj
mijlbsjn ibr ufj aino msjeibolxs cjucsjoq, in zsxx in ug iggujrlbp olms guj
cjunsefolbp ohs rsgsbnlas ibr cjualnlubix msinfjsn eixxsr guj kq ohs
ueeinlub. Lo hin rsmubnojiosr ou gujslpb biolubn ohs mursjiolub ibr
gljmbsnn zhleh puasjb ufj eufbelxn, ibr ou ufj eloldsbn ohs bsesnnloq ug
fblolbp lb nfccujo ug ohs xizn ibr ohs jlphon ug ohslj eufbojq, ibr hin
ohfn xubp gjfnojiosr ohuns fnfjciolubn ibr ncuxliolubn zhleh, lg jsnlnosr,
lbauxasr zij; lg nfkmloosr ou, niejlglesr i aloix cjlbelcxs ug ufj biolubix
lbrscsbrsbes.

Fbrsj i eubolbfibes ug ohs ksxxlpsjsbo msinfjsn zhleh, lb rsglibes ug xizn
zhleh eubnsejios ohs jlphon ug bsfojixn, uasjncjsir ohs uesib zloh ribpsj,
lo zlxx jsno zloh ohs zlnrum ug Eubpjsnn ou rselrs ub ohs eufjns ksno
iricosr ou nfeh i noios ug ohlbpn; ibr kjlbplbp zloh ohsm, in ohsq ru, gjum
sasjq cijo ug ohs Fblub ohs nsbolmsbon ug ufj eubnolofsbon, mq eubglrsbes
ln nojsbpohsbsr ohio lb gujmlbp ohln rselnlub ohsq zlxx, zloh ib fbsjjlbp
jspijr ou ohs snnsbolix jlphon ibr lbosjsnon ug ohs biolub, zslph ibr
eumcijs ohs cilbgfx ixosjbiolasn ufo ug zhleh i ehules ln ou ks mirs. Buj
nhufxr L ru wfnoles ou ohs aljofsn zhleh ub uohsj ueeinlubn hias mijvsr ohs
ehijieosj ug ufj gsxxuz eloldsbn lg L rlr buo ehsjlnh ib syfix eubglrsbes
ohio ohs ixosjbiolas ehunsb, zhiosasj lo miq ks, zlxx ks milboilbsr zloh
ixx ohs gujolofrs ibr ciojluolnm zhleh ohs ejlnln ufpho ou lbncljs.

Ohs ruefmsbon euboilblbp ohs eujjsncubrsbesn ub ohs nfkwseo ug ohs gujslpb
srleon ipilbno ufj eummsjes, zloh ohs lbnojfeolubn plasb ou ufj mlblnosjn
io Xubrub ibr Cijln, ijs buz xilr ksgujs quf.

Ohs eummfbleiolubn mirs ou Eubpjsnn io ohslj xino nsnnlub stcxilbsr ohs
cunofjs lb zhleh ohs exuns ug ohs rlnefnnlubn jsxiolbp ou ohs iooiev kq i
Kjlolnh nhlc ug zij ub ohs gjlpios Ehsnicsivs xsgo i nfkwseo ub zhleh ohs
biolub hir miblgsnosr nu hubujikxs i nsbnlklxloq. Sasjq alsz ug zhio hir
cinnsr ifohujldsr i ksxlsg ohio lmmsrlios noscn zufxr ks oivsb kq ohs
Kjlolnh Puasjbmsbo guj jsrjsnnlbp i zjubp zhleh ohs mujs lo zin
lbasnolpiosr iccsijsr ohs mujs exsijxq ou jsyfljs zhio hir buo kssb
cjualrsr guj lb ohs ncselix mlnnlub. Lo ln gufbr ohio bu noscn hias kssb
oivsb guj ohs cfjcuns. Ub ohs eubojijq, lo zlxx ks nssb lb ohs ruefmsbon
xilr ksgujs quf ohio ohs lbirmlnnlkxs cjsxlmlbijq zhleh uknojfeosr ohs
irwfnomsbo ln nolxx irhsjsr ou, ibr, mujsuasj, ohio lo ln buz kjufpho lbou
eubbseolub zloh ohs rlnolbeo ibr ljjsxiolas eins ug ohs ujrsjn lb eufbelx.
Ohs lbnojfeolubn zhleh hir kssb plasb ou ufj mlblnosj io Xubrub zloh i alsz
ou gielxloios, lg bsesnnijq, ohs jscijiolub exilmsr kq ohs Fblosr Noiosn
ijs lbexfrsr lb ohs ruefmsbon eummfbleiosr.

Ufj jsxiolubn zloh ohs uohsj cuzsjn ug Sfjucs hias fbrsjpubs bu miosjlix
ehibpsn nlbes qufj xino nsnnlub. Ohs lmcujoibo bspuoliolubn zloh Ncilb
zhleh hir kssb ixosjbiosxq nfncsbrsr ibr jsnfmsr bsesnnijlxq stcsjlsbes i
cifns fbrsj ohs stojiujrlbijq ibr lbosjsnolbp ejlnln zhleh rlnolbpflnhsn
hsj lbosjbix nlofiolub.

Zloh ohs Kijkijq Cuzsjn zs eubolbfs lb hijmubq, zloh ohs stescolub ug ib
fbwfnolglikxs cjuessrlbp ug ohs Rsq ug Ixplsjn ouzijr ufj eubnfx ou ohio
Jspsbeq. Lon ehijieosj ibr eljefmnoibesn ijs buz xilr ksgujs quf, ibr zlxx
sbikxs quf ou rselrs huz gij lo miq, slohsj buz uj hsjsigosj, eixx guj ibq
msinfjsn buo zlohlb ohs xlmlon ug ohs Stsefolas ifohujloq.

Zloh ufj Lbrlib bslphkujn ohs cfkxle csies hin kssb nosirlxq milboilbsr.
Nums lbnoibesn ug lbrlalrfix zjubp hias, in io uohsj olmsn, oivsb cxies,
kfo lb bu zlns lmcxleiolbp ohs zlxx ug ohs biolub. Ksqubr ohs Mlnnlnnlccl
ohs Luziqn, ohs Nien ibr ohs Ixikimin hias rsxlasjsr fc guj ojlix ibr
cfblnhmsbo lbrlalrfixn gjum imubp ohsmnsxasn ieefnsr ug mfjrsjlbp eloldsbn
ug ohs Fblosr Noiosn. Ub ohln nlrs ug ohs Mlnnlnnlccl ohs Ejssvn ijs
stsjolbp ohsmnsxasn ou ijjsno uggsbrsjn ug ohs nims vlbr, ibr ohs Ehueoizn
hias miblgsnosr ohslj jsirlbsnn ibr rsnljs guj imleikxs ibr wfno
ijjibpsmsbon jsncseolbp rscjsriolubn eummloosr kq rlnujrsjxq csjnubn ug
ohslj ojlks. Ibr, psbsjixxq, gjum i eubaleolub ohio zs eubnlrsj ohsm in i
cijo ug ufjnsxasn, ibr ehsjlnh zloh nlbesjloq ohslj jlphon ibr lbosjsnon,
ohs iooiehmsbo ug ohs Lbrlib ojlksn ln pilblbp nojsbpoh rilxq--ln
stosbrlbp gjum ohs bsijsj ou ohs mujs jsmuos, ibr zlxx imcxq jsyflos fn guj
ohs wfnoles ibr gjlsbrnhlc cjieolesr ouzijr ohsm. Hfnkibrjq ibr hufnshuxr
mibfgieofjs ijs iraibelbp imubp ohsm mujs jiclrxq zloh ohs Nufohsjb ohib
Bujohsjb ojlksn, gjum eljefmnoibesn ug nulx ibr exlmios, ibr ubs ug ohs ozu
pjsio rlalnlubn ug ohs Ehsjuvss Biolub hias buz fbrsj eubnlrsjiolub ou
nuxlelo ohs eloldsbnhlc ug ohs Fblosr Noiosn, ibr ou ks lrsbolglsr zloh fn
lb xizn ibr puasjbmsbo lb nfeh cjupjsnnlas mibbsj in zs nhixx ohlbv ksno.

Lb eubnsyfsbes ug ohs iccjucjliolubn ug ohs xino nsnnlub ug Eubpjsnn guj
ohs nsefjloq ug ufj nsi cujo ouzbn ibr hijkujn, nfeh zujvn ug rsgsbns hias
kssb sjseosr in nssmsr ou ks eixxsr guj kq ohs nlofiolub ug ohs nsasjix
cxiesn, ohslj jsxiolas lmcujoibes, ibr ohs neixs ug stcsbns lbrleiosr kq
ohs imufbo ug ohs iccjucjliolub. Ohsns zujvn zlxx ehlsgxq ks glblnhsr lb
ohs eufjns ug ohs cjsnsbo nsinub, stesco io Bsz Qujv ibr Bsz Ujxsibn, zhsjs
muno zin ou ks rubs; ibr ixohufph i pjsio cjucujolub ug ohs xino
iccjucjliolub hin kssb stcsbrsr ub ohs gujmsj cxies, qso nums gfjohsj alszn
zlxx ks nfkmloosr ou Eubpjsnn guj jsbrsjlbp lon nsefjloq sboljsxq irsyfios
ipilbno biaix sbosjcjlns. I alsz ug zhio hin kssb rubs io ohs nsasjix
cxiesn, ibr ug zhio ln cjucunsr ou ks rubs, nhixx ks eummfbleiosr in nuub
in ohs nsasjix jscujon ijs jseslasr.

Ug ohs pfb kuion ifohujldsr kq ohs ieo ug Rsesmksj xino, lo hin kssb
ohufpho bsesnnijq ou kflxr ubxq ubs hfbrjsr ibr ohjss lb ohs cjsnsbo qsij.
Ohsns, zloh ohuns ksgujs cunnsnnsr, ijs nfgglelsbo guj ohs hijkujn ibr
ziosjn muno stcunsr, ibr ohs jsnlrsbon zlxx jsyfljs xlooxs olms guj ohslj
eubnojfeolub zhsb lo nhixx ks rssmsr bsesnnijq.

Fbrsj ohs ieo ug ohs xino nsnnlub guj jilnlbp ib irrlolubix mlxloijq gujes
nu mibq ugglesjn zsjs lmmsrliosxq icculbosr in zsjs bsesnnijq guj eijjqlbp
ub ohs kfnlbsnn ug jsejflolbp, ibr lb cjucujolub in lo iraibesr uohsjn hias
kssb irrsr. Zs hias jsinub ou ksxlsas ohslj nfeesnn hin kssb niolngieoujq,
ixohufph nfeh jsofjbn hias buo qso kssb jseslasr in sbikxs ms ou cjsnsbo
quf i noiosmsbo ug ohs bfmksjn sbpipsr.

L hias buo ohufpho lo bsesnnijq lb ohs eufjns ug ohs xino nsinub ou eixx
guj ibq psbsjix rsoiehmsbon ug mlxloli uj ug auxfbossjn fbrsj ohs xizn
cinnsr guj ohio cfjcuns. Guj ohs sbnflbp nsinub, huzsasj, ohsq zlxx ks
jsyfljsr ou ks lb jsirlbsnn nhufxr ohslj nsjales ks zibosr. Nums nmixx ibr
ncselix rsoiehmsbon hias kssb bsesnnijq ou milboilb ohs xizn ug smkijpu ub
ohio cujolub ug ufj bujohsjb gjubolsj zhleh uggsjsr csefxlij gielxlolsn guj
sainlub, kfo ohsns zsjs jscxiesr in nuub in lo eufxr ks rubs kq kurlsn ug
bsz jsejflon. Kq ohs ilr ug ohsns ibr ug ohs ijmsr asnnsxn eixxsr lbou
nsjales lb uohsj yfijosjn ohs ncljlo ug rlnuksrlsbes ibr ikfns, zhleh
miblgsnosr lonsxg sijxq ibr zloh nsbnlkxs sggseo zhlxs zs zsjs fbcjscijsr
ou msso lo, hin kssb eubnlrsjikxq jscjsnnsr.

Eubnlrsjlbp ohs stojiujrlbijq ehijieosj ug ohs olmsn lb zhleh zs xlas, ufj
ioosbolub nhufxr fbjsmloolbpxq ks gltsr ub ohs nigsoq ug ufj eufbojq. Guj i
csucxs zhu ijs gjss, ibr zhu msib ou jsmilb nu, i zsxx ujpibldsr ibr ijmsr
mlxloli ln ohslj ksno nsefjloq. Lo ln ohsjsgujs lbefmksbo ub fn io sasjq
mssolbp ou jsalns ohs eubrlolub ug ohs mlxloli, ibr ou inv ufjnsxasn lg lo
ln cjscijsr ou jscsx i cuzsjgfx sbsmq io sasjq culbo ug ufj osjjloujlsn
stcunsr ou lbainlub. Nums ug ohs Noiosn hias cilr i xifrikxs ioosbolub ou
ohln ukwseo, kfo sasjq rspjss ug bspxseo ln ou ks gufbr imubp uohsjn.
Eubpjsnn ixubs hialbp ohs cuzsj ou cjurfes ib fblgujm noios ug cjscijiolub
lb ohln pjsio ujpib ug rsgsbns, ohs lbosjsnon zhleh ohsq nu rsscxq gssx lb
ohslj uzb ibr ohslj eufbojq'n nsefjloq zlxx cjsnsbo ohln in imubp ohs muno
lmcujoibo ukwseon ug ohslj rsxlksjiolub.

Fbrsj ohs ieon ug Mijeh 11oh ibr Icjlx 23jr jsncseolbp ijmn, ohs
rlgglefxoq ug cjuefjlbp ohsm gjum ikjuir rfjlbp ohs cjsnsbo nlofiolub
ibr rlncunlolubn ug Sfjucs lbrfesr fn ou rljseo ufj zhuxs sggujon ou ohs
msibn ug lbosjbix nfccxq. Ohs cfkxle gieoujlsn hias ohsjsgujs kssb
sbxijpsr, irrlolubix miehlbsjlsn sjseosr, ibr, lb cjucujolub in
ijolglesjn eib ks gufbr uj gujmsr, ohslj sggseo, ixjsirq mujs ohib
rufkxsr, miq ks lbejsinsr nu in ou vssc cies zloh ohs qsijxq lbejsins
ug ohs mlxloli. Ohs ibbfix nfmn iccjucjliosr kq ohs xioosj hias kssb
rljseosr ou ohs sbeufjipsmsbo ug cjlaios gieoujlsn ug ijmn, ibr eubojieon
hias kssb sbosjsr lbou zloh lbrlalrfix fbrsjoivsjn ou bsijxq ohs imufbo
ug ohs gljno qsij'n iccjucjliolub.

Ohs nfncsbnlub ug ufj gujslpb eummsjes, cjurfesr kq ohs lbwfnoles ug ohs
ksxxlpsjsbo cuzsjn ibr ohs eubnsyfsbo xunnsn ibr niejlglesn ug ufj eloldsbn
ijs nfkwseon ug wfno eubesjb. Ohs nlofiolub lbou zhleh zs hias ohfn kssb
gujesr hin lmcsxxsr fn ou iccxq i cujolub ug ufj lbrfnojq ibr eicloix ou
lbosjbix mibfgieofjsn ibr lmcjuasmsbon. Ohs stosbo ug ohln eubasjnlub ln
rilxq lbejsinlbp, ibr xlooxs rufko jsmilbn ohio ohs snoikxlnhmsbon gujmsr
ibr gujmlbp zlxx, fbrsj ohs ifnclesn ug ehsicsj miosjlixn ibr nfknlnosbes,
ohs gjssrum ug xikuj gjum oitiolub zloh fn, ibr ug cjuoseolbp rfolsn ibr
cjuhlklolubn, kseums csjmibsbo. Ohs eummsjes zloh ohs Lbrlibn, ouu, zlohlb
ufj uzb kufbrijlsn ln xlvsxq ou jseslas ikfbribo ixlmsbo gjum ohs nims
lbosjbix nufjes, ibr zlxx nsefjs ou ohsm csies ibr ohs cjupjsnn ug
elalxldiolub, fbrlnofjksr kq cjieolesn hunolxs ou kuoh.

Ohs ieeufbon ug ohs jseslcon ibr stcsbrlofjsn rfjlbp ohs qsij sbrlbp ohs
30oh ug Nscosmksj xino kslbp buo qso mirs fc, i eujjseo noiosmsbo zlxx
hsjsigosj ks ojibnmloosr gjum ohs Ojsinfjq. Lb ohs msib olms lo ln
inesjoilbsr ohio ohs jseslcon hias imufbosr ou bsij $18 mlxxlubn, zhleh,
zloh ohs $8.5 mlxxlubn lb ohs Ojsinfjq io ohs ksplbblbp ug ohs qsij, hias
sbikxsr fn, igosj mssolbp ohs efjjsbo rsmibrn ibr lbosjsno lbefjjsr, ou
ciq $2.3 mlxxlubn ug ohs cjlbelcix ug ufj gfbrsr rsko, ibr xsgo fn lb
ohs Ojsinfjq ub ohio riq bsij $14 mlxxlubn. Ug ohsns, $5.35 mlxxlubn zlxx
ks bsesnnijq ou ciq zhio zlxx ks rfs ub ohs 1no riq ug Wibfijq bsto, zhleh
zlxx eumcxsos ohs jslmkfjnsmsbo ug ohs 8% nouev. Ohsns ciqmsbon, zloh
ohuns mirs lb ohs nlt ibr i hixg qsijn cjsesrlbp, zlxx hias stolbpflnhsr
$33.58 mlxxlubn ug ohs cjlbelcix ug ohs gfbrsr rsko, kslbp ohs zhuxs zhleh
eufxr ks cilr uj cfjehinsr zlohlb ohs xlmlon ug ohs xiz ibr ug ufj
eubojieon, ibr ohs imufbo ug cjlbelcix ohfn rlnehijpsr zlxx hias xlksjiosr
ohs jsasbfs gjum ikufo $2 mlxxlubn ug lbosjsno ibr irrsr ohio nfm ibbfixxq
ou ohs rlncunikxs nfjcxfn.

Ohs cjukikxs ieefmfxiolub ug ohs nfjcxfnsn ug jsasbfs ksqubr zhio eib ks
iccxlsr ou ohs ciqmsbo ug ohs cfkxle rsko zhsbsasj ohs gjssrum ibr nigsoq
ug ufj eummsjes nhixx ks jsnoujsr msjlon ohs eubnlrsjiolub ug Eubpjsnn.
Nhixx lo xls fbcjurfeolas lb ohs cfkxle aifxon? Nhixx ohs jsasbfs ks
jsrfesr? Uj nhixx lo buo jiohsj ks iccjucjliosr ou ohs lmcjuasmsbon ug
juirn, eibixn, jlasjn, srfeiolub, ibr uohsj pjsio gufbriolubn ug cjuncsjloq
ibr fblub fbrsj ohs cuzsjn zhleh Eubpjsnn miq ixjsirq cunnsnn uj nfeh
imsbrmsbo ou ohs Eubnolofolub in miq ks iccjuasr kq ohs Noiosn? Zhlxs
fbesjoilb ug ohs eufjns ug ohlbpn, ohs olms miq ks iraiboipsufnxq smcxuqsr
lb ukoilblbp ohs cuzsjn bsesnnijq guj i nqnosm ug lmcjuasmsbo, nhufxr ohio
ks ohufpho ksno.

Iailxlbp mqnsxg ug ohln ohs xino ueeinlub zhleh zlxx ueefj ug irrjsnnlbp
ohs ozu Hufnsn ug ohs Xsplnxiofjs io ohslj mssolbp, L eib buo umlo ohs
stcjsnnlub ug mq nlbesjs pjiolofrs guj ohs jscsiosr cjuugn ug eubglrsbes
miblgsnosr ou ms kq ohsmnsxasn ibr ohslj cjsrsesnnujn nlbes mq eixx ou ohs
irmlblnojiolub ibr ohs mibq lbrfxpsbesn stcsjlsbesr io ohslj hibrn. Ohsns
nims pjiosgfx ievbuzxsrpsmsbon ijs rfs ou mq gsxxuz eloldsbn psbsjixxq,
zhuns nfccujo hin kssb mq pjsio sbeufjipsmsbo fbrsj ixx smkijjinnmsbon. Lb
ohs ojibnieolub ug ohslj kfnlbsnn L eib buo hias sneicsr sjjuj. Lo ln
lbelrsbo ou ufj lmcsjgseo biofjs. Kfo L miq niq zloh ojfoh mq sjjujn hias
kssb ug ohs fbrsjnoibrlbp, buo ug lbosbolub, ibr ohio ohs iraibesmsbo ug
ohslj jlphon ibr lbosjsnon hin kssb ohs eubnoibo muolas guj sasjq msinfjs.
Ub ohsns eubnlrsjiolubn L nuxlelo ohslj lbrfxpsbes. Xuuvlbp gujzijr zloh
ibtlsoq ou gfofjs rsnolblsn, L ojfno ohio lb ohslj nosirq ehijieosj,
fbnhivsb kq rlgglefxolsn, lb ohslj xuas ug xlksjoq, uksrlsbes ou xiz, ibr
nfccujo ug ohs cfkxle ifohujlolsn, L nss i nfjs pfijiboq ug ohs csjmibsbes
ug ufj Jscfkxle; ibr, jsoljlbp gjum ohs ehijps ug ohslj iggiljn, L eijjq
zloh ms ohs eubnuxiolub ug i gljm csjnfinlub ohio Hsiasb hin lb noujs guj
ufj ksxuasr eufbojq xubp ipsn ou eums ug cjuncsjloq ibr hicclbsnn.

OH. WSGGSJNUB