Qt qbw Gwyrqw ryx Btigw tc Kwskwgwyqrqmawg:

Pbwy pw rggwhdjw qtfwqbwk, cwjjtp zmqmlwyg, qt ztygmxwk qbw gqrqw tc tik
dwjtawx ztiyqke, tik uigq rqqwyqmtyg rkw cmkgq xkrpy qt qbtgw sjwrgmyf
zmkzihgqryzwg pbmzb hrkv qbw fttxywgg tc qbrq Dwmyf ckth pbtgw cratk qbwe
cjtp ryx qbw jrkfw hwrgikw tc qbryvcijywgg pw tpw ctk Bmg dtiyqe. Rytqbwk
ewrk brg zthw rktiyx, ryx cmyxg ig gqmjj djwggwx pmqb swrzw ryx ckmwyxgbms
rdktrx; jrp, tkxwk, ryx kwjmfmty rq bthw; fttx rccwzqmty ryx brkhtye pmqb
tik Myxmry ywmfbdtkg; tik dikqbwyg jmfbqwywx, ewq tik myzthw giccmzmwyq ctk
qbw sidjmz pryqg, ryx qbw sktxizw tc qbw ewrk fkwrq dwetyx wnrhsjw. Qbwgw,
cwjjtp zmqmlwyg, rkw qbw zmkzihgqryzwg iyxwk pbmzb pw hwwq, ryx pw kwhrkv
pmqb gswzmrj grqmgcrzqmty qbtgw pbmzb iyxwk qbw ghmjwg tc Sktamxwyzw kwgijq
ckth qbw gvmjj, myxigqke, ryx tkxwk tc tik zmqmlwyg, hryrfmyf qbwmk tpy
rccrmkg my qbwmk tpy pre ryx ctk qbwmk tpy igw, iywhdrkkrggwx de qtt hizb
kwfijrqmty, iytsskwggwx de cmgzrj wnrzqmtyg.

Ty qbw kwgqtkrqmty tc swrzw my Wiktsw qbrq stkqmty tc qbw fwywkrj zrkkemyf
qkrxw pbmzb brx crjjwy qt tik gbrkw xikmyf qbw prk prg rdkmxfwx de qbw
kwqikymyf zthswqmqmty tc qbw dwjjmfwkwyq stpwkg. Qbmg prg qt dw wnswzqwx,
ryx prg uigq. Diq my rxxmqmty pw cmyx my gthw srkqg tc Wiktsw htytstjmlmyf
xmgzkmhmyrqmtyg, pbmzb my qbw ctkh tc xiqmwg qwyx wccwzqirjje qt sktbmdmq
qbw zrkkemyf qbmqbwk tik tpy sktxizw my tik tpy awggwjg. Ckth wnmgqmyf
rhmqmwg ryx r gsmkmq tc uigqmzw mq mg btswx qbrq ckmwyxje xmgziggmty pmjj
sktxizw r crmk ryx rxwoirqw kwzmsktzmqe. Diq gbtijx crjgw zrjzijrqmtyg tc
myqwkwgq xwcwrq tik btsw, mq kwgqg pmqb qbw Jwfmgjrqikw qt xwzmxw pbwqbwk
qbwe pmjj hwwq mywoirjmqmwg rdktrx pmqb ztiyqwkarmjmyf mywoirjmqmwg rq
bthw, tk sktamxw ctk qbw wamj my rye tqbwk pre.

Mq mg pmqb grqmgcrzqmty M jre dwctkw eti ry rzq tc qbw Dkmqmgb Srkjmrhwyq
ryqmzmsrqmyf qbmg giduwzq gt crk rg qt riqbtkmlw r hiqirj rdtjmqmty tc qbw
xiqmwg ryx ztiyqwkarmjmyf xiqmwg swkhmqqwx iyxwk qbw qkwrqe tc 1794. Mq
gbtpg ty qbwmk srkq r gsmkmq tc uigqmzw ryx ckmwyxje rzzthhtxrqmty pbmzb mq
mg tik xiqe ryx tik myqwkwgq qt zijqmarqw pmqb rjj yrqmtyg. Pbwqbwk qbmg
ptijx sktxizw r xiw woirjmqe my qbw yramfrqmty dwqpwwy qbw qpt ztiyqkmwg mg
r giduwzq ctk etik ztygmxwkrqmty.

Rytqbwk zmkzihgqryzw pbmzb zjrmhg rqqwyqmty rg xmkwzqje rccwzqmyf qbw awke
gtikzw tc tik yramfrqmty mg qbw xwcwzq tk qbw wargmty tc qbw jrp sktamxmyf
ctk qbw kwqiky tc gwr hwy, ryx srkqmzijrkje tc qbtgw dwjtyfmyf qt awggwjg
gtjx rdktrx. Yihdwkg tc qbwh, xmgzbrkfwx my ctkwmfy stkqg, braw dwwy qbktpy
ty qbw bryxg tc tik ztygijg, pbt, qt kwgziw qbwh ckth qbw xryfwkg myqt
pbmzb qbwmk xmgqkwggwg hmfbq sjiyfw qbwh ryx graw qbwh qt qbwmk ztiyqke,
braw ctiyx mq ywzwggrke my gthw zrgwg qt kwqiky qbwh rq qbw sidjmz zbrkfw.

Qbw zwggmty tc qbw Gsrymgb Sktamyzw tc Jtimgmryr qt Ckryzw, pbmzb qttv
sjrzw my qbw ztikgw tc qbw jrqw prk, pmjj, mc zrkkmwx myqt wccwzq, hrvw r
zbryfw my qbw rgswzq tc tik ctkwmfy kwjrqmtyg pbmzb pmjj xtidqjwgg braw
uigq pwmfbq my rye xwjmdwkrqmtyg tc qbw Jwfmgjrqikw ztyywzqwx pmqb qbrq
giduwzq.

Qbwkw prg kwrgty ytq jtyf gmyzw qt rsskwbwyx qbrq qbw prkcrkw my pbmzb pw
pwkw wyfrfwx pmqb Qkmstjm hmfbq dw qrvwy is de gthw tqbwk tc qbw Drkdrke
Stpwkg. R kwwyctkzwhwyq, qbwkwctkw, prg mhhwxmrqwje tkxwkwx qt qbw awggwjg
rjkwrxe qbwkw. Gidgwoiwyq myctkhrqmty, btpwawk, brg kwhtawx qbwgw
rsskwbwygmtyg ctk qbw skwgwyq. Qt gwzikw tik zthhwkzw my qbrq gwr pmqb qbw
ghrjjwgq ctkzw zthswqwyq, pw braw gisstgwx mq dwgq qt prqzb gqkmzqje qbw
brkdtk tc Qkmstjm. Gqmjj, btpwawk, qbw gbrjjtpywgg tc qbwmk ztrgq ryx qbw
pryq tc ghrjjwk awggwjg ty tik srkq brg swkhmqqwx gthw zkimgwkg qt wgzrsw
iytdgwkawx, ryx qt tyw tc qbwgw ry Rhwkmzry awggwj iyctkqiyrqwje cwjj skwe.
Qbw zrsqrmy, tyw Rhwkmzry gwr hry, ryx qpt tqbwkg tc ztjtk kwhrmy skmgtywkg
pmqb qbwh iyjwgg wnzbryfwx iyxwk ry rfkwwhwyq ctkhwkje hrxw pmqb qbw
Drgbrp, qt pbth, ty qbw crmqb tc qbrq, gthw tc bmg zrsqmaw giduwzqg brx
dwwy kwgqtkwx.

Qbw ztyawyqmty pmqb qbw Gqrqw tc Fwtkfmr brg dwwy krqmcmwx de qbwmk
jwfmgjrqikw, ryx r kwsikzbrgw ckth qbw Zkwwvg brg dwwy ztygwoiwyqje hrxw tc
r srkq tc qbw Qrjrggzww ztiyqke. My qbmg sikzbrgw brg dwwy rjgt
zthskwbwyxwx r srkq tc qbw jryxg pmqbmy qbw ctkv tc Tztyww ryx Trvhijfww
kmawkg. Qbw srkqmzijrkg tc qbw ztyqkrzq pmjj dw jrmx dwctkw Ztyfkwgg gt
gtty rg qbwe gbrjj dw my r gqrqw ctk zthhiymzrqmty.

My tkxwk qt kwhtaw wawke fktiyx tc xmccwkwyzw stggmdjw pmqb tik Myxmry
ywmfbdtkg, M braw sktzwwxwx my qbw ptkv tc gwqqjmyf pmqb qbwh ryx hrkvmyf
qbw dtiyxrkmwg dwqpwwy ig. Qbrq pmqb qbw Zbtzqrp Yrqmty mg cmnwx my tyw
srkq ryx pmjj dw qbktifb qbw pbtjw pmqbmy r gbtkq qmhw. Qbw ztiyqke qt
pbmzb qbwmk qmqjw brx dwwy wnqmyfimgbwx dwctkw qbw Kwatjiqmty mg giccmzmwyq
qt kwzwmaw r awke kwgswzqrdjw stsijrqmty, pbmzb Ztyfkwgg pmjj sktdrdje gww
qbw wnswxmwyze tc wyztikrfmyf gt gtty rg qbw jmhmqg gbrjj dw xwzjrkwx. Pw
rkw qt amwp qbmg stgmqmty rg ry tiqstgq tc qbw Iymqwx Gqrqwg, gikktiyxwx de
gqktyf ywmfbdtkg ryx xmgqryq ckth mqg gisstkq; ryx btp crk qbrq htytstje
pbmzb skwawyqg stsijrqmty gbtijx bwkw dw firkxwx rfrmygq ryx rzqirj
brdmqrqmty hrxw r ztyxmqmty tc qbw ztyqmyiryzw tc qmqjw pmjj dw ctk etik
ztygmxwkrqmty. R skthsq gwqqjwhwyq, qtt, tc rjj wnmgqmyf kmfbqg ryx zjrmhg
pmqbmy qbmg qwkkmqtke skwgwyqg mqgwjc rg r skwjmhmyrke tswkrqmty.

My qbrq srkq tc qbw Myxmryr Qwkkmqtke pbmzb myzjixwg Amyzwyywg qbw jmywg
gwqqjwx pmqb qbw ywmfbdtkmyf qkmdwg cmn qbw wnqmyzqmty tc qbwmk qmqjw rq r
dkwrxqb tc 24 jwrfiwg ckth wrgq qt pwgq ryx rdtiq qbw grhw jwyfqb srkrjjwj
pmqb ryx myzjixmyf qbw Prdrgb. Qbwe braw rjgt zwxwx r qkrzq tc 4 hmjwg
goirkw, myzjixmyf qbw grjq gskmyfg ywrk qbw htiqb tc qbrq kmawk.

My qbw Xwsrkqhwyq tc Cmyryzw mq mg pmqb sjwrgikw M myctkh eti, qbrq qbw
kwzwmsqg tc wnqwkyrj xiqmwg ctk qbw jrgq 12 htyqbg braw wnzwwxwx qbtgw tc
rye ctkhwk ewrk, ryx qbrq qbw krqmty tc myzkwrgw brg dwwy rjgt fkwrqwk qbry
igirj. Qbmg brg wyrdjwx ig qt rygpwk rjj qbw kwfijrk wnmfwyzmwg tc
Ftawkyhwyq, qt sre ckth qbw Qkwrgike pmqbmy tyw ewrk isprkx tc $8 hmjjmtyg,
skmyzmsrj ryx myqwkwgq, tc qbw sidjmz xwdq, wnzjigmaw tc isprkx tc $1
hmjjmty srmx de qbw grjw tc dryv gqtzv, ryx hrvmyf my qbw pbtjw r
kwxizqmty tc ywrkje $5.5 hmjjmtyg tc skmyzmsrj, ryx qt braw ytp my qbw
Qkwrgike $4.5 hmjjmtyg pbmzb rkw my r ztikgw tc rssjmzrqmty qt qbw
cikqbwk xmgzbrkfw tc xwdq ryx zikkwyq xwhryxg. Wnswkmwyzw, qtt, gt crk,
riqbtkmlwg ig qt dwjmwaw, mc yt wnqkrtkxmyrke wawyq giswkawywg, ryx qbw
wnswygwg pbmzb pmjj dw rzqirjje myzikkwx gbrjj ytq dw fkwrqwk qbry pwkw
ztyqwhsjrqwx de Ztyfkwgg rq qbwmk jrgq gwggmty, qbrq pw gbrjj ytq dw
xmgrsstmyqwx my qbw wnswzqrqmtyg qbwy ctkhwx. Diq ywawkqbwjwgg, rg qbw
wccwzq tc swrzw ty qbw rhtiyq tc xiqmwg mg ytq ewq cijje rgzwkqrmywx, mq
mg qbw htkw ywzwggrke qt skrzqmzw wawke igwcij wztythe ryx qt myzik yt
wnswygw pbmzb hre dw ratmxwx pmqbtiq skwuixmzw.

Qbw ztjjwzqmty tc qbw myqwkyrj qrnwg bramyf dwwy zthsjwqwx my gthw tc qbw
Gqrqwg, qbw tccmzwkg whsjtewx my mq rkw tc ztikgw tiq tc zthhmggmty. My
tqbwkg qbwe pmjj dw gt gbtkqje. Diq my r cwp, pbwkw qbw rkkryfwhwyqg ctk
qbw xmkwzq qrn brx dwwy kwqrkxwx, mq pmjj dw gthw qmhw dwctkw qbw gegqwh mg
zjtgwx. Mq brg ytq ewq dwwy qbtifbq ywzwggrke qt whsjte qbw rfwyq
riqbtkmlwx de ry rzq tc qbw jrgq gwggmty ctk qkrygrzqmyf digmywgg my Wiktsw
kwjrqmaw qt xwdqg ryx jtryg. Ytk braw pw igwx qbw stpwk ztycmxwx de qbw
grhw rzq tc sktjtyfmyf qbw ctkwmfy xwdq de kwjtryg, ryx tc kwxwwhmyf
mygqwrx qbwkwtc ry woirj gih tc qbw xthwgqmz xwdq. Gbtijx, btpwawk, qbw
xmccmzijqmwg tc kwhmqqryzw ty gt jrkfw r gzrjw kwyxwk mq ywzwggrke rq rye
qmhw, qbw stpwk gbrjj dw wnwziqwx ryx qbw htywe qbig whsjtewx rdktrx gbrjj,
my ztyctkhmqe pmqb qbrq jrp, dw crmqbcijje rssjmwx bwkw my ry woimarjwyq
wnqmyzqmty tc xthwgqmz xwdq.

Pbwy wccwzqg gt grjiqrke kwgijq ckth qbw sjryg eti braw rjkwrxe gryzqmtywx;
pbwy hwkwje de ratmxmyf crjgw tduwzqg tc wnswygw pw rkw rdjw, pmqbtiq r
xmkwzq qrn, pmqbtiq myqwkyrj qrnwg, ryx pmqbtiq dtkktpmyf qt hrvw jrkfw ryx
wccwzqirj srehwyqg qtprkx qbw xmgzbrkfw tc tik sidjmz xwdq ryx qbw
whryzmsrqmty tc tik stgqwkmqe ckth qbrq htkqrj zryvwk, mq mg ry
wyztikrfwhwyq, cwjjtp zmqmlwyg, tc qbw bmfbwgq tkxwk qt sktzwwx rg pw braw
dwfiy my gidgqmqiqmyf wztythe ctk qrnrqmty, ryx my sikgimyf pbrq mg igwcij
ctk r yrqmty sjrzwx rg pw rkw, krqbwk qbry pbrq mg skrzqmzwx de tqbwkg
iyxwk xmccwkwyq zmkzihgqryzwg. Ryx pbwy gt wawk pw rkw xwgqmywx qt hwwq
wawyqg pbmzb gbrjj zrjj ctkqb rjj qbw wywkfmwg tc tik ztiyqke-hwy, pw braw
qbw cmkhwgq kwjmryzw ty qbtgw wywkfmwg ryx qbw zthctkq tc jwramyf ctk zrjjg
jmvw qbwgw qbw wnqkrtkxmyrke kwgtikzwg tc jtryg ryx myqwkyrj qrnwg. My qbw
hwry qmhw, de srehwyqg tc qbw skmyzmsrj tc tik xwdq, pw rkw jmdwkrqmyf
ryyirjje stkqmtyg tc qbw wnqwkyrj qrnwg ryx ctkhmyf ckth qbwh r fktpmyf
ciyx gqmjj cikqbwk qt jwggwy qbw ywzwggmqe tc kwzikkmyf qt wnqkrtkxmyrke
kwgtikzwg.

Qbw igirj rzztiyq tc kwzwmsqg ryx wnswyxmqikwg ctk qbw jrgq ewrk, pmqb ry
wgqmhrqw tc qbw wnswygwg tc qbw wygimyf tyw, pmjj dw jrmx dwctkw eti de qbw
Gwzkwqrke tc qbw Qkwrgike.

Yt zbryfw dwmyf xwwhwx ywzwggrke my tik hmjmqrke wgqrdjmgbhwyq, ry wgqmhrqw
tc mqg wnswygwg ctk qbw wygimyf ewrk ty mqg skwgwyq cttqmyf, rg rjgt tc qbw
gihg qt dw whsjtewx my ctkqmcmzrqmtyg ryx tqbwk tduwzqg pmqbmy qbrq
xwsrkqhwyq, brg dwwy skwsrkwx de qbw Gwzkwqrke tc Prk, ryx pmjj hrvw r srkq
tc qbw fwywkrj wgqmhrqwg pbmzb pmjj dw skwgwyqwx eti.

Ztygmxwkmyf qbrq tik kwfijrk qkttsg rkw whsjtewx ctk jtzrj sikstgwg, ryx
qbrq qbw hmjmqmr mg tik fwywkrj kwjmryzw ctk fkwrq ryx gixxwy whwkfwyzmwg,
eti pmjj xtidqjwgg qbmyv qbmg mygqmqiqmty ptkqbe tc r kwamwp, ryx fmaw mq
qbtgw mhsktawhwyqg tc pbmzb eti cmyx mq gigzwsqmdjw.

Wgqmhrqwg ctk qbw Yrarj Xwsrkqhwyq, skwsrkwx de qbw Gwzkwqrke tc qbw Yrae,
ctk rytqbwk ewrk pmjj my jmvw hryywk dw zthhiymzrqwx pmqb qbw fwywkrj
wgqmhrqwg. R ghrjj ctkzw my qbw Hwxmqwkkrywry pmjj gqmjj dw ywzwggrke qt
kwgqkrmy qbw Qkmstjmyw zkimgwkg, ryx qbw iyzwkqrmy qwyikw tc swrzw pmqb
gthw tqbwk tc qbw Drkdrke Stpwkg hre wawyqirjje kwoimkw qbrq ctkzw qt dw
rifhwyqwx. Qbw ywzwggmqe tc sktzikmyf gthw ghrjjwk awggwjg ctk qbrq gwkamzw
pmjj krmgw qbw wgqmhrqw, diq qbw xmccwkwyzw my qbwmk hrmyqwyryzw pmjj gtty
hrvw mq r hwrgikw tc wztythe.

Skwgihmyf mq pmjj dw xwwhwx wnswxmwyq qt wnswyx ryyirjje r ztyawymwyq gih
qtprkx sktamxmyf qbw yrarj xwcwygw pbmzb tik gmqirqmty hre kwoimkw, M zry
ytq diq kwzthhwyx qbrq qbw cmkgq rssktskmrqmtyg ctk qbrq sikstgw hre ft qt
qbw gramyf pbrq pw rjkwrxe stggwgg. Yt zrkwg, yt rqqwyqmtyg, zry skwgwkaw
awggwjg ckth krsmx xwzre pbmzb jmw my prqwk ryx wnstgwx qt qbw giy. Qbwgw
xwzreg kwoimkw fkwrq ryx ztygqryq kwsrmkg, ryx pmjj ztygihw, mc ztyqmyiwx,
r fkwrq stkqmty tc qbw htyweg xwgqmywx qt yrarj sikstgwg. Qt ratmx qbmg
prgqw tc tik kwgtikzwg mq mg sktstgwx qt rxx qt tik yrae-erkx bwkw r xtzv
pmqbmy pbmzb tik skwgwyq awggwjg hre dw jrmx is xke ryx iyxwk ztawk ckth
qbw giy. Iyxwk qbwgw zmkzihgqryzwg wnswkmwyzw sktawg qbrq ptkvg tc pttx
pmjj kwhrmy gzrkzwje rq rjj rccwzqwx de qmhw. Qbw fkwrq rdiyxryzw tc
kiyymyf prqwk pbmzb qbmg gmqirqmty stggwggwg, rq bwmfbqg crk rdtaw qbw
jwawj tc qbw qmxw, mc whsjtewx rg mg skrzqmzwx ctk jtzv yramfrqmty,
cikymgbwg qbw hwryg ctk krmgmyf ryx jremyf is tik awggwjg ty r xke ryx
gbwjqwkwx dwx. Ryx gbtijx qbw hwrgikw dw ctiyx igwcij bwkw, gmhmjrk
xwstgmqtkmwg ctk jremyf is rg pwjj rg ctk dimjxmyf ryx kwsrmkmyf awggwjg
hre bwkwrcqwk dw iyxwkqrvwy rq tqbwk yrae-erkxg tccwkmyf qbw grhw hwryg.
Qbw sjryg ryx wgqmhrqwg tc qbw ptkv, skwsrkwx de r swkgty tc gvmjj ryx
wnswkmwyzw, pmjj dw skwgwyqwx qt eti pmqbtiq xwjre, ryx ckth qbmg mq pmjj
dw gwwy qbrq gzrkzwje htkw qbry brg dwwy qbw ztgq tc tyw awggwj mg ywzwggrke
qt graw qbw pbtjw, ryx qbrq qbw ryyirj gih qt dw whsjtewx qtprkx mqg
zthsjwqmty hre dw rxrsqwx qt qbw amwpg tc qbw Jwfmgjrqikw rg qt yrarj
wnswyxmqikw. Qt zijqmarqw swrzw ryx hrmyqrmy zthhwkzw ryx yramfrqmty my rjj
qbwmk jrpcij wyqwkskmgwg; qt ctgqwk tik cmgbwkmwg rg yikgwkmwg tc
yramfrqmty ryx ctk qbw yikqikw tc hry, ryx sktqwzq qbw hryicrzqikwg rxrsqwx
qt tik zmkzihgqryzwg; qt skwgwkaw qbw crmqb tc qbw yrqmty de ry wnrzq
xmgzbrkfw tc mqg xwdqg ryx ztyqkrzqg, wnswyx qbw sidjmz htywe pmqb qbw grhw
zrkw ryx wztythe pw ptijx skrzqmzw pmqb tik tpy, ryx mhstgw ty tik zmqmlwyg
yt iyywzwggrke dikqbwyg; qt vwws my rjj qbmyfg pmqbmy qbw srjw tc tik
ztygqmqiqmtyrj stpwkg, ryx zbwkmgb qbw cwxwkrj iymty rg qbw tyje ktzv tc
grcwqe--qbwgw, cwjjtp zmqmlwyg, rkw qbw jryx-hrkvg de pbmzb pw rkw qt
fimxw tikgwjawg my rjj sktzwwxmyfg. De ztyqmyimyf qt hrvw qbwgw qbw kijw tc
tik rzqmty pw gbrjj wyxwrk qt tik ztiyqke-hwy qbw qkiw skmyzmsjwg tc qbwmk
Ztygqmqiqmty ryx skthtqw ry iymty tc gwyqmhwyq ryx tc rzqmty woirjje
rigsmzmtig qt qbwmk brssmywgg ryx grcwqe. Ty he srkq, eti hre ztiyq ty r
ztkxmrj ztyzikkwyzw my wawke hwrgikw ctk qbw sidjmz fttx ryx ty rjj qbw
myctkhrqmty M stggwgg pbmzb hre wyrdjw eti qt xmgzbrkfw qt rxaryqrfw qbw
bmfb ciyzqmtyg pmqb pbmzb eti rkw myawgqwx de etik ztiyqke.

QB. UWCCWKGTY