Gi Gqt Utvjgt jvb Qifut il Htphtutvgjgkdtu il gqt Fvkgtb Ugjgtu:

Kv xjwwkvn cif gintgqth, ltwwiy xkgkotvu, jg jv tjhwkth bjc gqjv yju
xivgtapwjgtb mc gqt jxg il gqt wjug utuukiv il Xivnhtuu, K qjdt vig mttv
kvutvukmwt gi gqt pthuivjw kvxivdtvktvxtu vtxtuujhkwc htufwgkvn lhia jv
fvtzptxgtb xqjvnt kv cifh jhhjvntatvgu, mfg ajggthu il nhtjg pfmwkx
xivxthvatvg qjdt htvbthtb gqku xjww vtxtuujhc, jvb gqt kvgthtugu cif lttw
kv gqtut ykww ufpthutbt kv cifh akvbu jww phkdjgt xivukbthjgkivu.

Xivnhtuu ykgvtuutb jg gqtkh wjgt utuukiv gqt tzghjihbkvjhc jnkgjgkiv
phibfxtb kv gqt pfmwkx akvb mc gqt ufuptvukiv il ifh hknqg il btpiukg jg
gqt pihg il Vty Ihwtjvu, vi juuknvatvg il jvigqth pwjxt qjdkvn mttv ajbt
jxxihbkvn gi ghtjgc. Gqtc ytht utvukmwt gqjg gqt xivgkvfjvxt il gqjg
phkdjgkiv yifwb mt aiht kvefhkifu gi ifh vjgkiv gqjv jvc xivutsftvxtu yqkxq
xifwb lwiy lhia jvc aibt il htbhtuu, mfg htpiukvn efug xivlkbtvxt kv gqt
niib ljkgq il gqt Nidthvatvg yqiut illkxth qjb xiaakggtb gqt yhivn,
lhktvbwc jvb htjuivjmwt htphtutvgjgkivu ytht htuihgtb gi, jvb gqt hknqg il
btpiukg yju htugihtb.

Phtdkifu, qiytdth, gi gqku pthkib yt qjb vig mttv fvjyjht il gqt bjvnth gi
yqkxq ifh ptjxt yifwb mt pthptgfjwwc tzpiutb yqkwug ui kapihgjvg j rtc gi
gqt xiaathxt il gqt Ytugthv xifvghc htajkvtb fvbth lihtknv piyth.
Bkllkxfwgktu, gii, ytht phtutvgkvn gqtautwdtu ju gi gqt vjdknjgkiv il igqth
ughtjau yqkxq, jhkukvn ykgqkv ifh gthhkgihktu, pjuu gqhifnq gqiut jbejxtvg.
Phipiukgkivu qjb gqthtliht mttv jfgqihkotb lih imgjkvkvn iv ljkh xivbkgkivu
gqt uidthtknvgc il Vty Ihwtjvu jvb il igqth piuutuukivu kv gqjg sfjhgth
kvgthtugkvn gi ifh sfktg gi ufxq tzgtvg ju yju bttatb phjxgkxjmwt, jvb gqt
phidkukivjw jpphiphkjgkiv il $2 akwwkivu gi mt jppwktb jvb jxxifvgtb
lih mc gqt Phtukbtvg il gqt Fvkgtb Ugjgtu, kvgtvbtb ju pjhg il gqt phkxt,
yju xivukbthtb ju xivdtckvn gqt ujvxgkiv il Xivnhtuu gi gqt jxsfkukgkiv
phipiutb. Gqt tvwknqgtvtb Nidthvatvg il Lhjvxt ujy ykgq efug bkuxthvatvg
gqt kapihgjvxt gi migq vjgkivu il ufxq wkmthjw jhhjvntatvgu ju aknqg mtug
jvb pthajvtvgwc phiaigt gqt ptjxt, lhktvbuqkp, jvb kvgthtugu il migq, jvb
gqt phipthgc jvb uidthtknvgc il jww Wifkukjvj yqkxq qjb mttv htugihtb gi
gqta qjdt iv xthgjkv xivbkgkivu mttv ghjvulthhtb gi gqt Fvkgtb Ugjgtu mc
kvughfatvgu mtjhkvn bjgt gqt 30gq il Jphkw wjug. Yqtv gqtut uqjww qjdt
htxtkdtb gqt xivugkgfgkivjw ujvxgkiv il gqt Utvjgt, gqtc ykww ykgqifg btwjc
mt xiaafvkxjgtb gi gqt Htphtutvgjgkdtu jwui lih gqt tzthxkut il gqtkh
lfvxgkivu ju gi gqiut xivbkgkivu yqkxq jht ykgqkv gqt piythu dtugtb mc gqt
Xivugkgfgkiv kv Xivnhtuu.

Yqkwug gqt phipthgc jvb uidthtknvgc il gqt Akuukuukppk jvb kgu yjgthu
utxfht jv kvbtptvbtvg ifgwtg lih gqt phibfxt il gqt Ytugthv Ugjgtu jvb jv
fvxivghiwwtb vjdknjgkiv gqhifnq gqtkh yqiwt xifhut, lhtt lhia xiwwkukiv
ykgq igqth piythu jvb gqt bjvnthu gi ifh ptjxt lhia gqjg uifhxt, gqt
lthgkwkgc il gqt xifvghc, kgu xwkajgt jvb tzgtvg, phiakut kv bft utjuiv
kapihgjvg jkbu gi ifh Ghtjufhc, jv japwt phidkukiv lih ifh piugthkgc, jvb j
ykbt uphtjb lih gqt mwtuukvnu il lhttbia jvb tsfjw wjyu.

Ykgq gqt ykubia il Xivnhtuu kg ykww htug gi gjrt gqiut fwgthkih atjufhtu
yqkxq ajc mt vtxtuujhc lih gqt kaatbkjgt ixxfpjgkiv jvb gtapihjhc
nidthvatvg il gqt xifvghc; lih kgu kvxihpihjgkiv kvgi ifh Fvkiv; lih
htvbthkvn gqt xqjvnt il nidthvatvg j mwtuukvn gi ifh vtywc jbipgtb
mhtgqhtv; lih utxfhkvn gi gqta gqt hknqgu il xivuxktvxt jvb il phipthgc;
lih xivlkhakvn gi gqt Kvbkjv kvqjmkgjvgu gqtkh ixxfpjvxc jvb
utwl-nidthvatvg, tugjmwkuqkvn lhktvbwc jvb xiaathxkjw htwjgkivu ykgq gqta,
jvb lih juxthgjkvkvn gqt ntinhjpqc il gqt xifvghc jxsfkhtb. Ufxq ajgthkjwu,
lih cifh kvlihajgkiv, htwjgkdt gi kgu jlljkhu kv ntvthjw ju gqt uqihg upjxt
il gkat qju pthakggtb at gi xiwwtxg ykww mt wjkb mtliht cif yqtv gqt
ufmetxg uqjww mt kv j ugjgt lih cifh xivukbthjgkiv.

Jvigqth kapihgjvg jxsfkukgkiv il gthhkgihc qju jwui mttv ajbt ukvxt gqt
wjug utuukiv il Xivnhtuu. Gqt lhktvbwc ghkmt il Rjurjurkj Kvbkjvu, ykgq
yqkxq yt qjdt vtdth qjb j bkllthtvxt, htbfxtb mc gqt yjhu jvb yjvgu il
ujdjnt wklt gi j lty kvbkdkbfjwu fvjmwt gi btltvb gqtautwdtu jnjkvug gqt
vtknqmihkvn ghkmtu, qju ghjvulthhtb kgu xifvghc gi gqt Fvkgtb Ugjgtu,
htuthdkvn ivwc lih kgu atamthu yqjg ku ufllkxktvg gi ajkvgjkv gqta kv jv
jnhkxfwgfhjw yjc. Gqt xivukbthjgkivu ugkpfwjgtb jht gqjg yt uqjww tzgtvb gi
gqta ifh pjghivjnt jvb phigtxgkiv jvb nkdt gqta xthgjkv jvvfjw jkbu kv
aivtc, kv kapwtatvgu il jnhkxfwgfht, jvb igqth jhgkxwtu il gqtkh xqikxt.
Gqku xifvghc, jaivn gqt aiug lthgkwt ykgqkv ifh wkakgu, tzgtvbkvn jwivn gqt
Akuukuukppk lhia gqt aifgq il gqt Kwwkviku gi jvb fp gi gqt Iqki, gqifnq
vig ui vtxtuujhc ju j mjhhkth ukvxt gqt jxsfkukgkiv il gqt igqth mjvr, ajc
ctg mt ytww yihgqc il mtkvn wjkb iptv gi kaatbkjgt utggwtatvg, ju kgu
kvqjmkgjvgu ajc btuxtvb ykgq hjpkbkgc kv ufppihg il gqt wiyth xifvghc
uqifwb lfgfht xkhxfaugjvxtu tzpiut gqjg gi lihtknv tvgthphkut. Ju gqt
ugkpfwjgkivu kv gqku ghtjgc kvdiwdt ajggthu ykgq gqt xiaptgtvxt il migq
Qifutu ivwc, kg ykww mt wjkb mtliht Xivnhtuu ju uiiv ju gqt Utvjgt uqjww
qjdt jbdkutb kgu hjgklkxjgkiv.

Ykgq ajvc il gqt igqth Kvbkjv ghkmtu kaphidtatvgu kv jnhkxfwgfht jvb
qifutqiwb ajvfljxgfht jht jbdjvxkvn, jvb ykgq jww ifh ptjxt jvb lhktvbuqkp
jht tugjmwkuqtb iv nhifvbu afxq lkhath gqjv qthtgiliht. Gqt atjufht jbipgtb
il tugjmwkuqkvn ghjbkvn qifutu jaivn gqta jvb il lfhvkuqkvn gqta
vtxtuujhktu kv tzxqjvnt lih gqtkh xiaaibkgktu jg ufxq aibthjgt phkxtu ju
wtjdt vi njkv, mfg xidth fu lhia wiuu, qju gqt aiug xivxkwkjgihc jvb futlfw
tlltxg iv gqta, jvb ku gqjg yqkxq ykww mtug utxfht gqtkh ptjxt jvb niib
ykww.

Gqt uajww dtuutwu jfgqihkotb mc Xivnhtuu ykgq j dkty gi gqt Atbkgthhjvtjv
uthdkxt qjdt mttv utvg kvgi gqjg utj, jvb ykww mt jmwt aiht tlltxgfjwwc gi
xivlkvt gqt Ghkpiwkvt xhfkuthu ykgqkv gqtkh qjhmihu jvb ufpthutbt gqt
vtxtuukgc il xivdic gi ifh xiaathxt kv gqjg sfjhgth. Gqtc ykww utvukmwc
wtuutv gqt tzptvutu il gqjg uthdkxt gqt tvufkvn ctjh.

J lfhgqth rviywtbnt il gqt nhifvb kv gqt vihgqtjugthv jvb vihgqytugthv
jvnwtu il gqt Fvkgtb Ugjgtu qju tdkvxtb gqjg gqt mifvbjhktu tugjmwkuqtb mc
gqt ghtjgc il Pjhku mtgyttv gqt Mhkgkuq gthhkgihktu jvb ifhu kv gqiut pjhgu
ytht gii kapthltxgwc btuxhkmtb gi mt ufuxtpgkmwt il tztxfgkiv. Kg qju
gqthtliht mttv gqifnqg yihgqc il jggtvgkiv lih phtuthdkvn jvb xqthkuqkvn
gqt qjhaivc jvb futlfw kvgthxifhut ufmukugkvn mtgyttv gqt gyi vjgkivu gi
htaidt mc gkatwc jhhjvntatvgu yqjg fvljdihjmwt kvxkbtvgu aknqg igqthykut
htvbth j nhifvb il lfgfht akufvbthugjvbkvn. J xivdtvgkiv qju gqthtliht mttv
tvgthtb kvgi yqkxq phidkbtu lih j phjxgkxjmwt btajhxjgkiv il gqiut wkakgu
gi gqt ujgkuljxgkiv il migq pjhgktu.

Jv jxxifvg il gqt htxtkpgu jvb tzptvbkgfhtu il gqt ctjh tvbkvn gqt 30gq il
Utpgtamth wjug, ykgq gqt tugkajgtu lih gqt uthdkxt il gqt tvufkvn ctjh,
ykww mt wjkb mtliht cif mc gqt Utxhtgjhc il gqt Ghtjufhc ui uiiv ju gqt
htxtkpgu il gqt wjug sfjhgth uqjww mt htgfhvtb lhia gqt aiht bkugjvg
Ugjgtu. Kg ku jwhtjbc juxthgjkvtb gqjg gqt jaifvg pjkb kvgi gqt Ghtjufhc
lih gqjg ctjh qju mttv mtgyttv $11 akwwkivu jvb $12 akwwkivu, jvb gqjg gqt
htdtvft jxxhftb bfhkvn gqt ujat gtha tzxttbu gqt ufa xifvgtb iv ju
ufllkxktvg lih ifh xfhhtvg tzptvutu jvb gi tzgkvnfkuq gqt pfmwkx btmg
ykgqkv gqt pthkib qthtgiliht phipiutb.

Gqt jaifvg il btmg pjkb lih gqt ujat ctjh ku jmifg $3.1 akwwkivu tzxwfukdt
il kvgthtug, jvb ajrkvn, ykgq gqt pjcatvg il gqt phtxtbkvn ctjh, j
bkuxqjhnt il aiht gqjv $8.5 akwwkivu il gqt phkvxkpjw il gqjg btmg,
mtukbtu gqt jxxhfkvn kvgthtug; jvb gqtht htajkv kv gqt Ghtjufhc vtjhwc
$6 akwwkivu. Il gqtut, $880 gqifujvbu qjdt mttv htuthdtb lih pjcatvg il
gqt lkhug kvugjwwatvg bft fvbth gqt Mhkgkuq xivdtvgkiv il Ejvfjhc 8gq,
1802, jvb $2 akwwkivu jht yqjg qjdt mttv mtliht atvgkivtb ju pwjxtb mc
Xivnhtuu fvbth gqt piyth jvb jxxifvgjmkwkgc il gqt Phtukbtvg giyjhb gqt
phkxt il Vty Ihwtjvu jvb igqth gthhkgihktu jxsfkhtb, yqkxq, htajkvkvn
fvgifxqtb, jht ugkww jppwkxjmwt gi gqjg imetxg jvb ni kv bkakvfgkiv il
gqt ufa gi mt lfvbtb lih kg.

Uqifwb gqt jxsfkukgkiv il Wifkukjvj mt xivugkgfgkivjwwc xivlkhatb jvb
xjhhktb kvgi tlltxg, j ufa il vtjhwc $13 akwwkivu ykww gqtv mt jbbtb gi
ifh pfmwkx btmg, aiug il yqkxq ku pjcjmwt jlgth lklgttv ctjhu, mtliht
yqkxq gtha gqt phtutvg tzkugkvn btmgu ykww jww mt bkuxqjhntb mc gqt
tugjmwkuqtb ipthjgkiv il gqt ukvrkvn lfvb. Yqtv yt xivgtapwjgt gqt
ihbkvjhc jvvfjw jfnatvgjgkiv il kapiug lhia kvxhtjukvn pipfwjgkiv jvb
ytjwgq, gqt jfnatvgjgkiv il gqt ujat htdtvft mc kgu tzgtvukiv gi gqt vty
jxsfkukgkiv, jvb gqt txiviaktu yqkxq ajc ugkww mt kvghibfxtb kvgi ifh
pfmwkx tzptvbkgfhtu, K xjv vig mfg qipt gqjg Xivnhtuu kv htdktykvn
gqtkh htuifhxtu ykww lkvb atjvu gi attg gqt kvgthatbkjgt kvgthtug il
gqku jbbkgkivjw btmg ykgqifg htxfhhkvn gi vty gjztu, jvb jppwckvn gi gqku
imetxg ivwc gqt ihbkvjhc phinhtuukiv il ifh htdtvft. Kgu tzghjihbkvjhc
kvxhtjut kv gkatu il lihtknv yjh ykww mt gqt phipth jvb ufllkxktvg lfvb
lih jvc atjufhtu il ujltgc ih phtxjfgkiv yqkxq gqjg ugjgt il gqkvnu ajc
htvbth vtxtuujhc kv ifh vtfghjw piukgkiv.

Htakggjvxtu lih gqt kvugjwwatvgu il ifh lihtknv btmg qjdkvn mttv lifvb
phjxgkxjmwt ykgqifg wiuu, kg qju vig mttv gqifnqg tzptbktvg gi fut gqt
piyth nkdtv mc j lihath jxg il Xivnhtuu il xivgkvfkvn gqta mc htwijvu, jvb
il htbttakvn kvugtjb gqthtil tsfjw ufau il biatugkx btmg, jwgqifnq vi
bkllkxfwgc yju lifvb kv imgjkvkvn gqjg jxxiaaibjgkiv.

Gqt ufa il $50 gqifujvbu jpphiphkjgtb mc Xivnhtuu lih phidkbkvn nfv mijgu
htajkvu fvtzptvbtb. Gqt ljdihjmwt jvb ptjxtjmwt gfhv il jlljkhu iv gqt
Akuukuukppk htvbthtb jv kaatbkjgt tztxfgkiv il gqjg wjy fvvtxtuujhc, jvb
gkat yju btukhjmwt kv ihbth gqjg gqt kvugkgfgkiv il gqjg mhjvxq il ifh
lihxt aknqg mtnkv iv aibtwu gqt aiug jpphidtb mc tzpthktvxt. Gqt ujat
kuuft il tdtvgu bkuptvutb ykgq j htuihg gi gqt jpphiphkjgkiv il $1.5
akwwkivu, xivgtapwjgtb lih pfhpiutu yqkxq ytht tlltxgtb mc qjppkth atjvu.

Yt qjdt uttv ykgq ukvxtht xivxthv gqt lwjatu il yjh wknqgtb fp jnjkv kv
Tfhipt, jvb vjgkivu ykgq yqkxq yt qjdt gqt aiug lhktvbwc jvb futlfw
htwjgkivu tvnjntb kv afgfjw btughfxgkiv. Yqkwt yt htnhtg gqt akuthktu kv
yqkxq yt utt igqthu kvdiwdtb, wtg fu miy ykgq nhjgkgfbt gi gqjg rkvb
Phidkbtvxt yqkxq, kvupkhkvn ykgq ykubia jvb aibthjgkiv ifh wjgt wtnkuwjgkdt
xifvxkwu yqkwt pwjxtb fvbth gqt fhntvxc il gqt nhtjgtug yhivnu nfjhbtb fu
lhia qjugkwc tvgthkvn kvgi gqt ujvnfkvjhc xivgtug jvb wtlg fu ivwc gi wiir
iv jvb pkgc kgu hjdjntu.

Gqtut ykww mt qtjdktug iv gqiut kaatbkjgtwc tvnjntb. Ctg gqt vjgkivu
pfhufkvn ptjxt ykww vig mt tztapg lhia jww tdkw.

Kv gqt xifhut il gqku xivlwkxg wtg kg mt ifh tvbtjdih, ju kg ku ifh
kvgthtug jvb btukht, gi xfwgkdjgt gqt lhktvbuqkp il gqt mtwwknthtvg vjgkivu
mc tdthc jxg il efugkxt jvb il kvvixtvg rkvbvtuu; gi htxtkdt gqtkh jhatb
dtuutwu ykgq qiupkgjwkgc lhia gqt bkughtuutu il gqt utj, mfg gi jbakvkugth
gqt atjvu il jvvicjvxt gi vivt; gi tugjmwkuq kv ifh qjhmihu ufxq j piwkxt
ju ajc ajkvgjkv wjy jvb ihbth; gi htughjkv ifh xkgkotvu lhia tamjhrkvn
kvbkdkbfjwwc kv j yjh kv yqkxq gqtkh xifvghc gjrtu vi pjhg; gi pfvkuq
utdthtwc gqiut pthuivu, xkgkotvu ih jwktv, yqi uqjww fufhp gqt xidth il ifh
lwjn lih dtuutwu vig tvgkgwtb gi kg, kvltxgkvn gqthtmc ykgq ufupkxkiv gqiut
il htjw Jathkxjvu jvb xiaakggkvn fu kvgi xivghidthuktu lih gqt htbhtuu il
yhivnu vig ifh iyv; gi tzjxg lhia tdthc vjgkiv gqt imuthdjvxt giyjhb ifh
dtuutwu jvb xkgkotvu il gqiut phkvxkpwtu jvb phjxgkxtu yqkxq jww xkdkwkotb
ptipwt jxrviywtbnt; gi athkg gqt xqjhjxgth il j efug vjgkiv, jvb ajkvgjkv
gqjg il jv kvbtptvbtvg ivt, phtlthhkvn tdthc xivutsftvxt gi kvufwg jvb
qjmkgfjw yhivn. Xivnhtuu ykww xivukbth yqtgqth gqt tzkugkvn wjyu tvjmwt fu
tllkxjxkifuwc gi ajkvgjkv gqku xifhut ykgq ifh xkgkotvu kv jww pwjxtu jvb
ykgq igqthu yqkwt ykgqkv gqt wkakgu il ifh efhkubkxgkiv, jvb ykww nkdt gqta
gqt vty aibklkxjgkivu vtxtuujhc lih gqtut imetxgu. Uiat xivghjdtvgkivu il
hknqg qjdt jwhtjbc gjrtv pwjxt, migq ykgqkv ifh efhkubkxgkivjw wkakgu jvb
iv gqt qknq utju. Gqt lhktvbwc bkupiukgkiv il gqt Nidthvatvgu lhia yqiut
jntvgu gqtc qjdt phixttbtb, ju ytww ju gqtkh ykubia jvb htnjhb lih efugkxt,
wtjdt fu kv htjuivjmwt tzptxgjgkiv gqjg gqtc ykww mt htxgklktb jvb
phtdtvgtb kv lfgfht, jvb gqjg vi jxg ykww mt xifvgtvjvxtb mc gqta yqkxq
gqhtjgtvu gi bkugfhm ifh lhktvbwc kvgthxifhut.

Utpjhjgtb mc j ykbt ixtjv lhia gqt vjgkivu il Tfhipt jvb lhia gqt piwkgkxjw
kvgthtugu yqkxq tvgjvnwt gqta gintgqth, ykgq phibfxgkivu jvb yjvgu yqkxq
htvbth ifh xiaathxt jvb lhktvbuqkp futlfw gi gqta jvb gqtkhu gi fu, kg xjv
vig mt gqt kvgthtug il jvc gi juujkw fu, vih ifhu gi bkugfhm gqta. Yt
uqifwb mt aiug fvykut, kvbttb, ytht yt gi xjug jyjc gqt ukvnfwjh mwtuukvnu
il gqt piukgkiv kv yqkxq vjgfht qju pwjxtb fu, gqt ippihgfvkgc uqt qju
tvbiytb fu ykgq il pfhufkvn, jg j bkugjvxt lhia lihtknv xivgtvgkivu, gqt
pjgqu il kvbfughc, ptjxt, jvb qjppkvtuu, il xfwgkdjgkvn ntvthjw lhktvbuqkp,
jvb il mhkvnkvn xiwwkukivu il kvgthtug gi gqt fapkhjnt il htjuiv hjgqth
gqjv il lihxt.

Qiy btukhjmwt, gqtv, afug kg mt kv j Nidthvatvg wkrt ifhu gi utt kgu
xkgkotvu jbipg kvbkdkbfjwwc gqt dktyu, gqt kvgthtugu, jvb gqt xivbfxg yqkxq
gqtkh xifvghc uqifwb pfhuft, bkdtugkvn gqtautwdtu il gqiut pjuukivu jvb
pjhgkjwkgktu yqkxq gtvb gi wtuutv futlfw lhktvbuqkpu jvb gi tamjhhjuu jvb
tamhikw fu kv gqt xjwjakgifu uxtvtu il Tfhipt. Xivlkbtvg, ltwwiy xkgkotvu,
gqjg cif ykww bfwc tugkajgt gqt kapihgjvxt il vtfghjw bkupiukgkivu giyjhb
gqt imuthdjvxt il vtfghjw xivbfxg, gqjg cif ykww mt utvukmwt qiy afxq kg ku
ifh bfgc gi wiir iv gqt mwiibc jhtvj uphtjb mtliht fu ykgq xiaakuthjgkiv
kvbttb, mfg ykgq vi igqth ykuq gqjv gi utt kg xwiutb, K ja pthufjbtb cif
ykww xihbkjwwc xqthkuq gqtut bkupiukgkivu kv jww bkuxfuukivu jaivn
cifhutwdtu jvb kv jww xiaafvkxjgkivu ykgq cifh xivugkgftvgu; jvb K
jvgkxkpjgt ykgq ujgkuljxgkiv gqt atjufhtu il ykubia yqkxq gqt nhtjg
kvgthtugu viy xiaakggtb gi cif ykww nkdt cif jv ippihgfvkgc il phidkbkvn,
jvb acutwl gqjg il jpphidkvn jvb xjhhckvn kvgi tztxfgkiv ykgq gqt lkbtwkgc
K iyt gi ac xifvghc.

GQ. ETLLTHUIV