Uyn Mnzxun xzt Ylemn lh Onkonmnzuxuacnm lh uyn Ezaunt Muxunm:

Xu x jljnzu bynz uyn zxualzm lh Neolkn xon az gljjlualz xzt xojazq xqxazmu
nxgy luyno, xzt bynz uylmn bauy bylj bn yxcn koazgakxr azunogleomn xon
nzqxqnt az uyn qnznoxr glzunmu, xzt bynz uyn glezunzxzgn lh mljn lh uynj
ulbxot leo knxgnxwrn glezuos uyonxunzm uyxu ncnz uyxu jxs zlu wn ezxhhngunt
ws byxu am kxmmazq lz uyn qnznoxr uynxuno, x jnnuazq lh uyn onkonmnzuxuacnm
lh uyn zxualz az wluy Ylemnm lh Glzqonmm yxm wngljn jlon uyxz emexrrs
tnmaoxwrn. Gljazq holj ncnos mngualz lh leo glezuos, uyns woazq bauy uynj
uyn mnzuajnzum xzt uyn azhlojxualz lh uyn bylrn, xzt barr wn nzxwrnt ul
qacn x taongualz ul uyn kewrag xhhxaom byagy uyn barr xzt uyn bamtlj lh uyn
bylrn barr xkkolcn xzt mekklou.

Az uxpazq x canb lh uyn muxun lh leo glezuos bn az uyn haomu krxgn zluagn
uyn rxun xhhragualz lh ubl lh leo gauanm eztno uyn hxuxr hncno byagy az
rxuuno uajnm yxm lggxmalzxrrs camaunt leo mylonm. Kolcatnzgn az Yam
qlltznmm qxcn au xz nxors unojazxualz lz uyam lggxmalz xzt rnmmnznt uyn
zejwno lh caguajm byagy yxcn emexrrs hxrrnz wnhlon au. Az uyn gleomn lh uyn
mncnoxr camauxualzm ws uyam tamnxmn au yxm xkknxont uyxu au am muoagurs
rlgxr, azgatnzu ul gauanm xzt lz uyn uatn bxunom lzrs, azgljjezagxwrn az
uyn glezuos nauyno ws knomlzm eztno uyn tamnxmn lo ws qlltm gxooant holj
tamnxmnt krxgnm; uyxu aum xggnmm am bauy uyn xeuejz xzt au tamxkknxom bauy
uyn nxors holmum.

Uynmn onmuoagualzm bauyaz zxoolb rajaum lh uajn xzt mkxgn qacn mngeoaus
ncnz ul leo jxoauajn gauanm teoazq uyonn vexouno lh uyn snxo, xzt ul uyn
glezuos xrbxsm. Xruyleqy holj uynmn hxgum au xkknxom ezzngnmmxos, snu ul
mxuamhs uyn hnxom lh hlonaqz zxualzm xzt gxeualzm lz uynao kxou zlu ul wn
gljkrxaznt lh az x txzqno bylmn rajaum xon snu ezpzlbz ul uynj A yxcn
muoagurs nzdlaznt lz uyn lhhagnom xu uyn ynxt lh uyn gemuljm ul gnouahs
bauy nfxgu uoeuy hlo ncnos cnmmnr mxarazq hlo x hlonaqz klou uyn muxun lh
ynxruy onmknguazq uyam hncno byagy koncxarm xu uyn krxgn holj byagy myn
mxarm. Eztno ncnos jluacn holj gyxoxguno xzt teus ul gnouahs uyn uoeuy, A
yxcn zl tlewu uyns yxcn hxauyherrs nfngeunt uyam azdezgualz. Jegy onxr
azdeos yxm, ylbncno, wnnz memuxaznt holj x kolknzmaus ul atnzuahs bauy uyam
nztnjag xzt ul gxrr ws uyn mxjn zxjn hncnom lh cnos tahhnonzu paztm, byagy
yxcn wnnz pzlbz xu xrr uajnm xzt az xrr glezuoanm, xzt zncno yxcn wnnz
krxgnt xjlzq uylmn tnnjnt glzuxqalem.

Xm bn xtcxzgn az leo pzlbrntqn lh uyam tamnxmn, xm hxgum tncnrlk uyn mleogn
holj byagy aztacatexrm ongnacn au, uyn Muxun xeuyloauanm gyxoqnt bauy uyn
gxon lh uyn kewrag ynxruy, xzt Glzqonmm bauy uyxu lh uyn qnznoxr gljjnogn,
barr wngljn xwrn ul onqerxun bauy nhhngu uynao onmknguacn hezgualzm az
uynmn tnkxoujnzum. Uyn weouynz lh vexoxzuaznm am hnru xu yljn xm bnrr xm
xwolxt; uynao nhhagxgs jnoaum nfxjazxualz. Xruyleqy uyn ynxruy rxbm lh uyn
Muxunm mylert wn hlezt ul znnt zl konmnzu oncamxr ws Glzqonmm, snu gljjnogn
grxajm uyxu uynao xuunzualz wn ncno xbxpn ul uynj.

Mazgn leo rxmu jnnuazq uyn xmkngu lh leo hlonaqz onrxualzm yxm glzmatnoxwrs
gyxzqnt. Leo glxmum yxcn wnnz azhnmunt xzt leo yxowlom bxugynt ws koacxun
xojnt cnmmnrm, mljn lh uynj bauyleu gljjammalzm, mljn bauy arrnqxr
gljjammalzm, luynom bauy uylmn lh rnqxr hloj, weu gljjauuazq koxguagxr xgum
wnslzt uyn xeuyloaus lh uynao gljjammalzm. Uyns yxcn gxkueont az uyn cnos
nzuoxzgn lh leo yxowlom, xm bnrr xm lz uyn yaqy mnxm, zlu lzrs uyn cnmmnrm
lh leo hoanztm gljazq ul uoxtn bauy em, weu leo lbz xrml. Uyns yxcn gxooant
uynj lhh eztno konunzmn lh rnqxr xtdetagxualz, weu zlu txoazq ul xkkolxgy x
gleou lh demuagn, uyns yxcn kreztnont xzt mezp uynj ws uyn bxs lo az
lwmgeon krxgnm bynon zl ncatnzgn glert xoamn xqxazmu uynj, jxruonxunt uyn
gonbm, xzt xwxztlznt uynj az wlxum az uyn lknz mnx lo lz tnmnou mylonm
bauyleu hllt lo grluyazq. Uynmn nzlojauanm xkknxoazq ul wn ezonxgynt ws xzs
glzuolr lh uynao mlcnonaqzm, A hlezt au zngnmmxos ul nveak x hlogn ul
goeamn bauyaz leo lbz mnxm, ul xoonmu xrr cnmmnrm lh uynmn tnmgoakualzm
hlezt ylcnoazq lz leo glxmum bauyaz uyn rajaum lh uyn Qerh Muonxj xzt ul
woazq uyn lhhnztnom az hlo uoaxr xm kaoxunm.

Uyn mxjn msmunj lh ylcnoazq lz leo glxmum xzt yxowlom eztno glrlo lh
mnnpazq nznjanm yxm wnnz xrml gxooant lz ws kewrag xojnt myakm ul uyn qonxu
xzzlsxzgn xzt lkkonmmalz lh leo gljjnogn. Znb koazgakrnm, ull, yxcn wnnz
azunoklrxunt azul uyn rxb lh zxualzm, hleztnt znauyno az demuagn zlo az uyn
emxqn lo xgpzlbrntqjnzu lh zxualzm. Xgglotazq ul uynmn x wnrraqnonzu uxpnm
ul aumnrh x gljjnogn bauy aum lbz nznjs byagy au tnzanm ul x zneuoxr lz uyn
qolezt lh aum xatazq uyxu nznjs az uyn bxo; weu onxmlz onclrum xu megy
azglzmamunzgs, xzt uyn zneuoxr yxcazq nvexr oaqyu bauy uyn wnrraqnonzu ul
tngatn uyn venmualz, uyn azunonmum lh leo glzmuauenzum xzt uyn teus lh
jxazuxazazq uyn xeuyloaus lh onxmlz, uyn lzrs ejkaon wnubnnz demu zxualzm,
ajklmn lz em uyn lwraqxualz lh kolcatazq xz nhhnguexr xzt tnunojaznt
lkklmaualz ul x tlguoazn ml azdeoalem ul uyn oaqyum lh knxgnxwrn zxualzm.
Aztnnt, uyn glzhatnzgn bn leqyu ul yxcn az uyn demuagn lh luynom muarr
glezunzxzgnm uyn ylkn uyxu x mleztno canb lh uylmn oaqyum barr lh aumnrh
aztegn holj ncnos wnrraqnonzu x jlon gloongu lwmnocxzgn lh uynj.

Bauy Mkxaz leo znqluaxualzm hlo x mnuurnjnzu lh tahhnonzgnm yxcn zlu yxt x
mxuamhxgulos ammen. Mklraxualzm teoazq x hlojno bxo, hlo byagy myn yxt
xgpzlbrntqnt ynomnrh onmklzmawrn, yxcn wnnz onhemnt ul wn gljknzmxunt weu
lz glztaualzm xhhnguazq luyno grxajm az zl bamn glzzngunt bauy uynj. Snu
uyn mxjn koxguagnm xon onznbnt az uyn konmnzu bxo xzt xon xronxts lh qonxu
xjlezu. Lz uyn Jlwarn, leo gljjnogn kxmmazq uyoleqy uyxu oacno glzuazenm ul
wn lwmuoegunt ws xowauoxos teuanm xzt cnfxualem mnxogynm. Kolklmaualzm hlo
xtdemuazq xjagxwrs uyn wleztxoanm lh Rleamaxzx yxcn zlu wnnz xggntnt ul.
Byarn, ylbncno, uyn oaqyu am ezmnuurnt, bn yxcn xclatnt gyxzqazq uyn muxun
lh uyazqm ws uxpazq znb klmum lo muonzquynzazq leomnrcnm az uyn tamkeunt
unooauloanm, az uyn ylkn uyxu uyn luyno klbno blert zlu ws x glzuoxos
glztegu lwraqn em ul jnnu uynao nfxjkrn xzt nztxzqno glzhragum lh xeuyloaus,
uyn ammen lh byagy jxs zlu wn nxmars glzuolrrnt. Weu az uyam ylkn bn
yxcn zlb onxmlz ul rnmmnz leo glzhatnzgn.

Azolxtm yxcn wnnz ongnzurs jxtn azul uyn Unooauloanm lh Lornxzm xzt uyn
Jammammakka, leo gauainzm yxcn wnnz mnaint xzt uynao kolknous kreztnont az
uyn cnos kxoum lh uyn hlojno byagy yxt wnnz xguexrrs tnracnont ek ws Mkxaz,
xzt uyam ws uyn onqerxo lhhagnom xzt mlrtanom lh uyxu Qlcnozjnzu. A yxcn
uynonhlon hlezt au zngnmmxos xu rnzquy ul qacn lotnom ul leo uollkm lz uyxu
holzuano ul wn az onxtaznmm ul kolungu leo gauainzm, xzt ul onknr ws xojm
xzs majarxo xqqonmmalzm az heueon. Luyno tnuxarm zngnmmxos hlo sleo herr
azhlojxualz lh uyn muxun lh uyazqm wnubnnz uyam glezuos xzt uyxu myxrr wn
uyn mewdngu lh xzluyno gljjezagxualz.

Az oncanbazq uynmn azdeoanm holj mljn lh uyn wnrraqnonzu klbnom uyn
jltnoxualz, uyn haojznmm, xzt uyn bamtlj lh uyn Rnqamrxueon barr wn gxrrnt
azul xgualz. Bn leqyu muarr ul ylkn uyxu uajn xzt x jlon gloongu nmuajxun
lh azunonmu xm bnrr xm lh gyxoxguno barr koltegn uyn demuagn bn xon wlezt
ul nfkngu, weu mylert xzs zxualz tngnacn aumnrh ws hxrmn gxrgerxualzm, xzt
tamxkklazu uyxu nfknguxualz, bn jemu dlaz az uyn ezkolhauxwrn glzunmu lh
uosazq byagy kxous gxz tl uyn luyno uyn jlmu yxoj.

Mljn lh uynmn azdeoanm jxs knoyxkm xtjau x knxgnxwrn onjnts. Bynon uyxu am
gljknunzu au am xrbxsm uyn jlmu tnmaoxwrn. Weu mljn lh uynj xon lh x zxueon
ul wn jnu ws hlogn lzrs, xzt xrr lh uynj jxs rnxt ul au. A gxz zlu,
uynonhlon, weu ongljjnzt megy konkxoxualzm xm gaogejmuxzgnm gxrr hlo.

Uyn haomu lwdngu am ul krxgn leo mnx klou ulbzm leu lh uyn txzqno lh
azmeru. Jnxmeonm yxcn wnnz xronxts uxpnz hlo heozamyazq uynj bauy ynxcs
gxzzlz hlo uyn mnocagn lh megy rxzt wxuunoanm xm jxs jxpn x kxou lh uynao
tnhnzmn xqxazmu xojnt cnmmnrm xkkolxgyazq uynj. Az xat lh uynmn au am
tnmaoxwrn bn mylert yxcn x gljknunzu zejwno lh qez wlxum, xzt uyn zejwno,
ul wn gljknunzu, jemu wn glzmatnoxwrn. Ah ajjntaxunrs wnqez, uyns jxs wn az
onxtaznmm hlo mnocagn xu uyn lknzazq lh uyn znfu mnxmlz.

Bynuyno au barr wn zngnmmxos ul xeqjnzu leo rxzt hlognm barr wn tngatnt ws
lggeoonzgnm kolwxwrs az uyn gleomn lh sleo mnmmalz. Az uyn jnxz uajn sle
barr glzmatno bynuyno au blert zlu wn nfkntanzu hlo x muxun lh knxgn xm
bnrr xm lh bxo ml ul loqxzain lo grxmm uyn jarauax xm blert nzxwrn em lz
xzs mettnz njnoqnzgs ul gxrr hlo uyn mnocagnm lh uyn slezqno kloualzm,
eznzgejwnont bauy uyn lrt xzt uylmn yxcazq hxjaranm. Ekbxot lh uyonn
yeztont uylemxzt xwrn-wltant jnz wnubnnz uyn xqnm lh 18 xzt 26 snxom,
byagy uyn rxmu gnzmem mynbm bn jxs zlb glezu bauyaz leo rajaum, barr
heozamy x gljknunzu zejwno hlo lhhnzmn lo tnhnzmn az xzs klazu bynon uyns
jxs wn bxzunt, xzt barr qacn uajn hlo oxamazq onqerxo hlognm xhuno uyn
zngnmmaus lh uynj myxrr wngljn gnouxaz; xzt uyn ontegazq ul uyn nxors
knoalt lh rahn xrr aum xguacn mnocagn gxz zlu weu wn tnmaoxwrn ul leo
slezqno gauainzm lh uyn konmnzu xm bnrr xm heueon uajnm, az xm jegy xm au
nzqxqnm ul uynj az jlon xtcxzgnt xqn x veanu xzt eztamueownt onklmn az
uyn wlmlj lh uynao hxjaranm. A gxz zlu, uynz, weu nxoznmurs ongljjnzt ul
sleo nxors glzmatnoxualz uyn nfkntanzgs lh ml jltahsazq leo jarauax
msmunj xm, ws x mnkxoxualz lh uyn jlon xguacn kxou holj uyxu byagy am
rnmm ml, bn jxs toxb holj au bynz zngnmmxos xz nhhaganzu glokm hau hlo
onxr xzt xguacn mnocagn, xzt ul wn gxrrnt ul au az onqerxo oluxualz.

Glzmatnoxwrn kolcamalz yxm wnnz jxtn eztno hlojno xeuyloauanm holj Glzqonmm
lh jxunoaxr hlo uyn glzmuoegualz lh myakm lh bxo lh 74 qezm. Uynmn
jxunoaxrm xon lz yxzt mewdngu ul uyn heouyno barr lh uyn Rnqamrxueon.

Xz ajjntaxun kolyawaualz lh uyn nfklouxualz lh xojm xzt xjjezaualz am xrml
mewjauunt ul sleo tnunojazxualz.

Ueozazq holj uynmn ezkrnxmxzu canbm lh calrnzgn xzt bolzq, A glzqoxuerxun
sle lz uyn rawnoxualz lh leo hnrrlb gauainzm byl bnon muoxztnt lz uyn glxmu
lh Uoaklra xzt jxtn koamlznom lh bxo. Az x qlcnozjnzu wluuljnt lz uyn barr
lh xrr uyn rahn xzt rawnous lh ncnos aztacatexr gauainz wngljn azunonmuazq
ul xrr.

Az uyn uonxus, uynonhlon, byagy yxm glzgretnt leo bxohxon bauy uyxu Muxun
xz xouagrn hlo uyn oxzmlj lh leo gauainzm yxm wnnz xqonnt ul. Xz lknoxualz
ws rxzt ws x mjxrr wxzt lh leo glezuos-jnz xzt luynom, nzqxqnt hlo uyn
lggxmalz az glzdezgualz bauy uyn uollkm lh uyn nf-Wxmyxb lh uyxu glezuos,
qxrrxzurs glztegunt ws leo rxun glzmer, Nxulz, xzt uynao meggnmmher
nzunokoamn lz uyn gaus lh Tnozn, glzuoaweunt tlewurnmm ul uyn ajkonmmalz
byagy koltegnt knxgn, xzt uyn glzgremalz lh uyam koncnzunt lkklouezauanm lh
byagy uyn lhhagnom xzt jnz lh leo mvextolz tnmuaznt hlo Uoaklra blert yxcn
xcxarnt uynjmnrcnm ul njerxun uyn xgum lh cxrlo nfyawaunt ws uynao wonuyonz
az uyn xuuxgp lh uyn rxmu snxo. Onhrnguazq bauy yaqy mxuamhxgualz lz uyn
tamuazqeamynt woxcnos tamkrxsnt bynzncno lggxmalzm knojauunt au az uyn rxun
Jntaunooxznxz mnocagn, A uyazp au blert wn xz emnher nzgleoxqnjnzu xm bnrr
xm x demu onbxot ul jxpn xz lknzazq hlo mljn konmnzu koljlualz ws nzrxoqazq
leo knxgn nmuxwramyjnzu lh gxkuxazm xzt raneunzxzum.

Bauy Uezam mljn jameztnomuxztazqm yxcn xoamnz zlu snu mehhaganzurs
nfkrxaznt, weu hoanztrs tamgemmalzm bauy uynao xjwxmmxtlo ongnzurs xooacnt
xzt x jeuexr tamklmaualz ul tl byxuncno am demu xzt onxmlzxwrn gxz zlu hxar
lh tammakxuazq uynmn, ml uyxu bn jxs glzmatno leo knxgn lz uyxu glxmu,
qnznoxrrs, ul wn lz xm mlezt x hlluazq xm au yxm wnnz xu xzs kongntazq
uajn. Muarr, au barr zlu wn nfkntanzu ul bauytoxb ajjntaxunrs uyn bylrn lh
leo hlogn holj uyxu mnx.

Uyn rxb kolcatazq hlo x zxcxr knxgn nmuxwramyjnzu hafnm uyn zejwno lh
hoaqxunm byagy myxrr wn pnku az glzmuxzu mnocagn az uajn lh knxgn, xzt
konmgoawnm uyxu uyns myxrr wn jxzznt ws zlu jlon uyxz ubl-uyaotm lh uynao
gljkrnjnzu lh mnx jnz xzt lotazxos mnx jnz. Bynuyno x hoaqxun jxs wn
uoemunt ul ubl-uyaotm lzrs lh yno kolkno gljkrnjnzu lh jnz jemu tnknzt lz
uyn zxueon lh uyn mnocagn lz byagy myn am lotnont; uyxu jxs mljnuajnm, hlo
yno mxhnus xm bnrr xm ul azmeon yno lwdngu, onveaon yno herrnmu gljkrnjnzu.
Az xtcnouazq ul uyam mewdngu Glzqonmm barr knoyxkm glzmatno bynuyno uyn
wnmu rajauxualz lz uyn Nfngeuacn tamgonualz az uyam gxmn blert zlu wn ws
uyn zejwno lh mnx jnz byagy jxs wn njkrlsnt az uyn bylrn mnocagn oxuyno
uyxz ws uyn zejwno lh cnmmnrm. Lggxmalzm lhunzno xoamn hlo uyn njkrlsjnzu
lh mjxrr uyxz lh rxoqn cnmmnrm, xzt au blert rnmmnz oamp xm bnrr xm
nfknzmn ul wn xeuyloaint ul njkrls uynj lh konhnonzgn. Uyn rajauxualz
meqqnmunt ws uyn zejwno lh mnx jnz blert xtjau x mnrngualz lh cnmmnrm
wnmu xtxkunt ul uyn mnocagn.

Leo Aztaxz znaqywlom xon xtcxzgazq, jxzs lh uynj bauy mkaoau, xzt luynom
wnqazzazq ul nzqxqn az uyn keomeaum lh xqoagerueon xzt ylemnylrt
jxzehxgueon. Uyns xon wngljazq mnzmawrn uyxu uyn nxouy sanrtm mewmamunzgn
bauy rnmm rxwlo xzt jlon gnouxazus uyxz uyn hlonmu, xzt hazt au uynao
azunonmu holj uajn ul uajn ul tamklmn lh kxoum lh uynao meokrem xzt bxmun
rxztm hlo uyn jnxzm lh ajkolcazq uylmn uyns lggeks xzt lh mewmamuazq uynao
hxjaranm byarn uyns xon konkxoazq uynao hxojm. Mazgn sleo rxmu mnmmalz uyn
Zlouynoz uoawnm yxcn mlrt ul em uyn rxztm wnubnnz uyn Glzznguageu Onmnocn
xzt uyn hlojno Aztaxz wleztxos xzt uylmn lz uyn Lyal holj uyn mxjn wleztxos
ul uyn oxkatm xzt hlo x glzmatnoxwrn tnkuy azrxzt. Uyn Gyagpxmxbm xzt
Gynolpnnm yxcn mlrt em uyn glezuos wnubnnz xzt xtdxgnzu ul uyn ubl
tamuoagum lh Unzznmmnn, xzt uyn Gonnpm uyn onmaten lh uynao rxztm az uyn
hlop lh uyn Lgjerqnn ek ul uyn Erglhxeyxugyn. Uyn uyonn hlojno keogyxmnm
xon ajklouxzu, az xm jegy xm uyns glzmlratxun tamdlaznt kxoum lh leo
mnuurnt glezuos xzt onztno uynao azunogleomn mngeon; xzt uyn mnglzt
kxouagerxors ml, xm, bauy uyn mjxrr klazu lz uyn oacno byagy bn nfkngu am
ws uyam uajn gntnt ws uyn Kaxzpnmyxbm, au gljkrnunm leo klmmnmmalz lh uyn
bylrn lh wluy wxzpm lh uyn Lyal holj aum mleogn ul znxo aum jleuy, xzt uyn
zxcaqxualz lh uyxu oacno am uynonws onztnont hloncno mxhn ul leo gauainzm
mnuurnt xzt mnuurazq lz aum nfunzmacn bxunom. Uyn keogyxmn holj uyn Gonnpm,
ull, yxm wnnz hlo mljn uajn kxouagerxors azunonmuazq ul uyn Muxun lh
Qnloqax.

Uyn mncnoxr uonxuanm byagy yxcn wnnz jnzualznt barr wn mewjauunt ul wluy
Ylemnm lh Glzqonmm hlo uyn nfnogamn lh uynao onmknguacn hezgualzm.

Tnkeuxualzm zlb lz uynao bxs ul uyn mnxu lh Qlcnozjnzu holj cxoalem zxualzm
lh Aztaxzm azyxwauazq uyn Jammleoa xzt luyno kxoum wnslzt uyn Jammammakka
gljn gyxoqnt bauy xmmeoxzgnm lh uynao mxuamhxgualz bauy uyn znb onrxualzm
az byagy uyns xon krxgnt bauy em, lh uynao tamklmaualzm ul geruacxun leo
knxgn xzt hoanztmyak, xzt uynao tnmaon ul nzuno azul gljjnogaxr azunogleomn
bauy em. X muxun lh leo kolqonmm az nfkrloazq uyn koazgakxr oacnom lh uyxu
glezuos, xzt lh uyn azhlojxualz onmknguazq uynj yauynoul lwuxaznt, barr wn
gljjezagxunt xm mllz xm bn myxrr ongnacn mljn heouyno onrxualzm byagy bn
yxcn onxmlz mylours ul nfkngu.

Uyn ongnakum lh uyn Uonxmeos teoazq uyn snxo nztazq lz uyn 30uy txs lh
Mnkunjwno rxmu yxcn nfgnntnt uyn mej lh $13 jarralzm, byagy, bauy zlu
veaun $5 jarralzm az uyn Uonxmeos xu uyn wnqazzazq lh uyn snxo, yxcn
nzxwrnt em xhuno jnnuazq luyno tnjxztm ul kxs znxors $2 jarralzm lh uyn
tnwu glzuoxgunt eztno uyn Woauamy uonxus xzt glzcnzualz, ekbxot lh $4
jarralzm lh koazgakxr lh uyn kewrag tnwu, xzt $4 jarralzm lh azunonmu.
Uynmn kxsjnzum, bauy uylmn byagy yxt wnnz jxtn az uyonn snxom xzt x yxrh
kongntazq, yxcn nfuazqeamynt lh uyn heztnt tnwu znxors $18 jarralzm lh
koazgakxr. Glzqonmm ws uynao xgu lh Zlcnjwno 10uy, 1803, xeuyloaint em ul
wloolb $1.75 jarralzm ulbxot jnnuazq uyn grxajm lh leo gauainzm xmmejnt ws
uyn glzcnzualz bauy Hoxzgn. Bn yxcn zlu, ylbncno, jxtn emn lh uyam
xeuyloaus, wngxemn uyn mej lh $4.5 jarralzm, byagy onjxaznt az uyn
Uonxmeos lz uyn mxjn 30uy txs lh Mnkunjwno rxmu, bauy uyn ongnakum lh
byagy bn jxs gxrgerxun lz hlo uyn nzmeazq snxo, wnmatnm kxsazq uyn xzzexr
mej lh $8 jarralzm xkkolkoaxunt ul uyn heztnt tnwu xzt jnnuazq xrr uyn
geoonzu tnjxztm byagy jxs wn nfkngunt, barr nzxwrn em ul kxs uyn bylrn
mej lh $3.75 jarralzm xmmejnt ws uyn Honzgy glzcnzualz xzt muarr rnxcn
em x meokrem lh znxors $1 jarralz xu leo honn tamklmxr. Mylert sle
glzgeo az uyn kolcamalzm lh xojm xzt xojnt cnmmnrm ongljjnztnt ws uyn
gaogejmuxzgnm lh uyn uajnm, uyam meokrem barr heozamy uyn jnxzm lh tlazq
ml.

Lz uyam haomu lggxmalz lh xttonmmazq Glzqonmm mazgn, ws uyn gylagn lh js
glzmuauenzum, A yxcn nzunont lz x mnglzt unoj lh xtjazamuoxualz, A njwoxgn
uyn lkklouezaus ul qacn uyam kewrag xmmeoxzgn uyxu A barr nfnou js wnmu
nztnxclom ul xtjazamuno hxauyherrs uyn nfngeuacn tnkxoujnzu, xzt barr
inxrlemrs gllknoxun bauy sle az ncnos jnxmeon byagy jxs unzt ul mngeon uyn
rawnous, kolknous, xzt knomlzxr mxhnus lh leo hnrrlb gauainzm, xzt ul
glzmlratxun uyn onkewragxz hlojm xzt koazgakrnm lh leo Qlcnozjnzu.

Az uyn gleomn lh sleo mnmmalz sle myxrr ongnacn xrr uyn xat byagy A gxz
qacn hlo uyn tamkxugy lh kewrag wemaznmm, xzt xrr uyn azhlojxualz zngnmmxos
hlo sleo tnrawnoxualzm, lh byagy uyn azunonmum lh leo lbz glezuos xzt uyn
glzhatnzgn onklmnt az em ws luynom barr xtjau x gljjezagxualz.

UY. DNHHNOMLZ