Dtv Rvqydv yqp Tmurv mf Jvwjvrvqdydxhvr mf dtv Uqxdvp Rdydvr:

Xd amuzp tyhv cxhvq ev, fvzzma kxdxlvqr, cjvyd rydxrfykdxmq dm yqqmuqkv xq
dtv emevqd mf smuj evvdxqc dtyd dtv pxffxkuzdxvr xq muj fmjvxcq jvzydxmqr
voxrdxqc yd dtv dxev mf smuj zyrd rvwyjydxmq typ nvvq yexkynzs yqp burdzs
dvjexqydvp. X zmrd qm dxev xq dygxqc dtmrv evyrujvr atxkt avjv emrd zxgvzs
dm njxqc dtve dm rukt y dvjexqydxmq--ns rwvkxyz exrrxmqr ktyjcvp axdt rukt
wmavjr yqp xqrdjukdxmqr yr xq dtv vhvqd mf fyxzujv kmuzp zvyhv qm
xewudydxmq mq vxdtvj muj empvjydxmq mj fmjnvyjyqkv. Dtv pvzysr atxkt tyhv
rxqkv dygvq wzykv xq muj qvcmdxydxmqr axdt dtv Njxdxrt Cmhvjqevqd ywwvyj dm
tyhv wjmkvvpvp fjme kyurvr atxkt pm qmd fmjnxp dtv vowvkdydxmq dtyd pujxqc
dtv kmujrv mf dtv rvrrxmq X eys nv vqynzvp dm zys nvfmjv smu dtvxj fxqyz
xrruv. Atyd axzz nv dtyd mf dtv qvcmdxydxmqr fmj rvddzxqc muj pxffvjvqkvr
axdt Rwyxq qmdtxqc atxkt typ dygvq wzykv yd dtv pydv mf dtv zyrd pxrwydktvr
vqynzvr ur dm wjmqmuqkv. Mq dtv avrdvjq rxpv mf dtv Exrrxrrxwwx rtv
yphyqkvp xq kmqrxpvjynzv fmjkv, yqp dmmg wmrd yd dtv rvddzvevqd mf Nysmu
Wxvjjv, mq dtv Jvp Jxhvj. Dtxr hxzzycv ayr mjxcxqyzzs rvddzvp ns Fjyqkv,
ayr tvzp ns tvj yr zmqc yr rtv tvzp Zmuxrxyqy, yqp ayr pvzxhvjvp dm Rwyxq
mqzs yr y wyjd mf Zmuxrxyqy. Nvxqc reyzz, xqruzydvp, yqp pxrdyqd, xd ayr
qmd mnrvjhvp yd dtv emevqd mf jvpvzxhvjs dm Fjyqkv yqp dtv Uqxdvp Rdydvr
dtyd rtv kmqdxquvp y cuyjp mf tyzf y pmlvq evq atxkt typ nvvq rdydxmqvp
dtvjv. Y wjmwmrxdxmq, tmavhvj, tyhxqc nvvq zydvzs eypv ns muj kmeeyqpvj xq
ktxvf dm yrruev dtv Rynxqv Jxhvj yr y dvewmjyjs zxqv mf rvwyjydxmq nvdavvq
dtv djmmwr mf dtv dam qydxmqr uqdxz dtv xrruv mf muj qvcmdxydxmqr rtyzz nv
gqmaq, dtxr tyr nvvq jvfvjjvp ns dtv Rwyqxrt kmeeyqpyqd dm txr ruwvjxmj,
yqp xq dtv evyq dxev tv tyr axdtpjyaq txr fmjkv dm dtv avrdvjq rxpv mf dtv
Rynxqv Jxhvj. Dtv kmjjvrwmqpvqkv mq dtxr runbvkd qma kmeeuqxkydvp axzz
votxnxd emjv wyjdxkuzyjzs dtv wjvrvqd rdydv mf dtxqcr xq dtyd iuyjdvj.

Dtv qydujv mf dtyd kmuqdjs jviuxjvr xqpxrwvqrynzs dtyd yq uquruyz
wjmwmjdxmq mf dtv fmjkv vewzmsvp dtvjv rtmuzp nv kyhyzjs mj emuqdvp
xqfyqdjs. Xq mjpvj, dtvjvfmjv, dtyd dtv kmeeyqpxqc mffxkvj exctd nv vqynzvp
dm ykd axdt vffvkd, X typ yudtmjxlvp txe dm kyzz mq dtv cmhvjqmjr mf
Mjzvyqr yqp Exrrxrrxwwx fmj y kmjwr mf fxhv tuqpjvp hmzuqdvvj kyhyzjs.
Dtv dvewmjyjs yjjyqcvevqd tv tyr wjmwmrvp eys wvjtywr jvqpvj dtxr
uqqvkvrryjs; nud X xqfmje smu axdt cjvyd wzvyrujv mf dtv wjmewdxdupv axdt
atxkt dtv xqtynxdyqdr mf dtmrv Dvjjxdmjxvr tyhv dvqpvjvp dtvxj rvjhxkvr xq
pvfvqrv mf dtvxj kmuqdjs. Xd tyr pmqv tmqmj dm dtvervzhvr, vqdxdzvp dtve
dm dtv kmqfxpvqkv mf dtvxj fvzzma kxdxlvqr xq vhvjs wyjd mf dtv Uqxmq,
yqp eurd rdjvqcdtvq dtv cvqvjyz pvdvjexqydxmq dm wjmdvkd dtve
vffxkykxmurzs uqpvj yzz kxjkuerdyqkvr atxkt eys mkkuj.

Tyhxqc jvkvxhvp xqfmjeydxmq dtyd xq yqmdtvj wyjd mf dtv Uqxdvp Rdydvr y
cjvyd quenvj mf wjxhydv xqpxhxpuyzr avjv kmenxqxqc dmcvdtvj, yjexqc yqp
mjcyqxlxqc dtvervzhvr kmqdjyjs dm zya, dm kyjjs mq y exzxdyjs vowvpxdxmq
ycyxqrd dtv dvjjxdmjxvr mf Rwyxq, X dtmuctd xd qvkvrryjs, ns wjmkzyeydxmq
yr avzz yr ns rwvkxyz mjpvjr, dm dygv evyrujvr fmj wjvhvqdxqc yqp
ruwwjvrrxqc dtxr vqdvjwjxrv, fmj rvxlxqc dtv hvrrvzr, yjer, yqp mdtvj evyqr
wjmhxpvp fmj xd, yqp fmj yjjvrdxqc yqp njxqcxqc dm burdxkv xdr yudtmjr yqp
ynvddmjr. Xd ayr puv dm dtyd cmmp fyxdt atxkt muctd vhvj dm nv dtv juzv mf
ykdxmq xq wunzxk yr avzz yr xq wjxhydv djyqrykdxmqr, xd ayr puv dm cmmp
mjpvj yqp jvcuzyj cmhvjqevqd, dtyd atxzv dtv wunzxk fmjkv ayr ykdxqc
rdjxkdzs mq pvfvqrxhv yqp evjvzs dm wjmdvkd muj kxdxlvqr fjme yccjvrrxmq
dtv kjxexqyz yddvewdr mf wjxhydv xqpxhxpuyzr dm pvkxpv fmj dtvxj kmuqdjs
dtv iuvrdxmq mf wvykv mj ayj ns kmeevqkxqc ykdxhv yqp uqyudtmjxlvp
tmrdxzxdxvr rtmuzp nv wjmewdzs yqp vffxkykxmurzs ruwwjvrrvp.

Atvdtvj xd axzz nv qvkvrryjs dm vqzyjcv muj jvcuzyj fmjkvr axzz pvwvqp mq
dtv jvruzd mf muj qvcmdxydxmqr axdt Rwyxq; nud yr xd xr uqkvjdyxq atvq dtyd
jvruzd axzz nv gqmaq, dtv wjmhxrxmqyz evyrujvr jviuxrxdv fmj dtyd, yqp dm
evvd yqs wjvrrujv xqdvjhvqxqc xq dtyd iuyjdvj, axzz nv y runbvkd fmj smuj
vyjzs kmqrxpvjydxmq.

Dtv wmrrvrrxmq mf nmdt nyqgr mf dtv Exrrxrrxwwx jvpukxqc dm y rxqczv wmxqd
dtv pvfvqrv mf dtyd jxhvj, xdr aydvjr, yqp dtv kmuqdjs ypbykvqd, xd nvkmevr
txctzs qvkvrryjs dm wjmhxpv fmj dtyd wmxqd y emjv ypviuydv rvkujxds. Rmev
wmrxdxmq ynmhv xdr emudt, kmeeyqpxqc dtv wyrrycv mf dtv jxhvj, rtmuzp nv
jvqpvjvp ruffxkxvqdzs rdjmqc dm kmhvj dtv yjevp hvrrvzr atxkt eys nv
rdydxmqvp dtvjv fmj pvfvqrv, yqp xq kmqbuqkdxmq axdt dtve dm wjvrvqd yq
xqruwvjynzv mnrdykzv dm yqs fmjkv yddvewdxqc dm wyrr. Dtv ywwjmyktvr dm dtv
kxds mf Qva Mjzvyqr fjme dtv vyrdvjq iuyjdvj yzrm axzz jviuxjv dm nv
voyexqvp yqp emjv vffvkduyzzs cuyjpvp. Fmj dtv xqdvjqyz ruwwmjd mf dtv
kmuqdjs dtv vqkmujycvevqd mf y rdjmqc rvddzvevqd mq dtv avrdvjq rxpv mf dtv
Exrrxrrxwwx, axdtxq jvykt mf Qva Mjzvyqr, axzz nv amjdts dtv kmqrxpvjydxmq
mf dtv Zvcxrzydujv.

Dtv cuq nmydr yudtmjxlvp ns yq ykd mf dtv zyrd rvrrxmq yjv rm yphyqkvp dtyd
dtvs axzz nv jvyps fmj rvjhxkv xq dtv vqruxqc rwjxqc. Kxjkuerdyqkvr
wvjexddvp ur dm yzzma dtv dxev qvkvrryjs fmj dtvxj emjv rmzxp kmqrdjukdxmq.
Yr y eukt zyjcvj quenvj axzz rdxzz nv ayqdxqc dm wzykv muj rvy wmjd dmaqr
yqp aydvjr xq dtyd rdydv mf pvfvqrv dm atxkt av yjv kmewvdvqd yqp dtvs
vqdxdzvp, y rxexzyj ywwjmwjxydxmq fmj y fujdtvj wjmhxrxmq fmj dtve xr
jvkmeevqpvp fmj dtv vqruxqc svyj.

Y fujdtvj ywwjmwjxydxmq axzz yzrm nv qvkvrryjs fmj jvwyxjxqc fmjdxfxkydxmqr
yzjvyps vrdynzxrtvp yqp dtv vjvkdxmq mf rukt mdtvj amjgr yr eys tyhv jvyz
vffvkd xq mnrdjukdxqc dtv ywwjmykt mf yq vqves dm muj rvy wmjd dmaqr, mj
dtvxj jveyxqxqc nvfmjv dtve.

Xq y kmuqdjs atmrv kmqrdxdudxmq xr pvjxhvp fjme dtv axzz mf dtv wvmwzv,
pxjvkdzs vowjvrrvp ns dtvxj fjvv ruffjycvr; atvjv dtv wjxqkxwyz vovkudxhv
fuqkdxmqyjxvr yqp dtmrv mf dtv zvcxrzydujv yjv jvqvavp ns dtve yd rtmjd
wvjxmpr; atvjv uqpvj dtv ktyjykdvj mf bujmjr dtvs vovjkxrv xq wvjrmq dtv
cjvydvrd wmjdxmq mf dtv bupxkxyjs wmavjr; atvjv dtv zyar yjv kmqrviuvqdzs
rm fmjevp yqp ypexqxrdvjvp yr dm nvyj axdt viuyz avxctd yqp fyhmj mq yzz,
jvrdjyxqxqc qm eyq xq dtv wujruxdr mf tmqvrd xqpurdjs yqp rvkujxqc dm
vhvjsmqv dtv wjmwvjds atxkt dtyd ykiuxjvr, xd amuzp qmd nv ruwwmrvp dtyd
yqs ryfv-cuyjpr kmuzp nv qvvpvp ycyxqrd xqrujjvkdxmq mj vqdvjwjxrv mq dtv
wunzxk wvykv mj yudtmjxds. Dtv zyar, tmavhvj, yayjv dtyd dtvrv rtmuzp qmd
nv djurdvp dm emjyz jvrdjyxqdr mqzs, tyhv axrvzs wjmhxpvp wuqxrtevqd fmj
dtvrv kjxevr atvq kmeexddvp. Nud amuzp xd qmd nv ryzudyjs dm cxhv yzrm dtv
evyqr mf wjvhvqdxqc dtvxj kmeexrrxmq? Atvjv yq vqdvjwjxrv xr evpxdydvp ns
wjxhydv xqpxhxpuyzr ycyxqrd y fmjvxcq qydxmq xq yexds axdt dtv Uqxdvp
Rdydvr, wmavjr mf wjvhvqdxmq dm y kvjdyxq vodvqd yjv cxhvq ns dtv zyar.
Amuzp dtvs qmd nv yr jvyrmqynzv yqp urvfuz atvjv dtv vqdvjwjxrv wjvwyjxqc
xr ycyxqrd dtv Uqxdvp Rdydvr? Atxzv yphvjdxqc dm dtxr njyqkt mf zya xd xr
wjmwvj dm mnrvjhv dtyd xq vqdvjwjxrvr evpxdydvp ycyxqrd fmjvxcq qydxmqr dtv
mjpxqyjs wjmkvrr mf nxqpxqc dm dtv mnrvjhyqkv mf dtv wvykv yqp cmmp
nvtyhxmj, kmuzp xd nv vodvqpvp dm ykdr dm nv pmqv mud mf dtv bujxrpxkdxmq
mf dtv Uqxdvp Rdydvr, amuzp nv vffvkduyz xq rmev kyrvr atvjv dtv mffvqpvj
xr ynzv dm gvvw mud mf rxctd vhvjs xqpxkydxmq mf txr wujwmrv atxkt kmuzp
pjya mq txe dtv vovjkxrv mf dtv wmavjr qma cxhvq ns zya.

Dtv Rdydvr mq dtv kmyrd mf Nyjnyjs rvve cvqvjyzzs pxrwmrvp yd wjvrvqd dm
jvrwvkd muj wvykv yqp fjxvqprtxw; axdt Duqxr yzmqv rmev uqkvjdyxqds
jveyxqr. Wvjruypvp dtyd xd xr muj xqdvjvrd dm eyxqdyxq muj wvykv axdt dtve
mq viuyz dvjer mj qmd yd yzz, X wjmwmrv dm rvqp xq puv dxev y jvvqfmjkvevqd
xqdm dtv Evpxdvjjyqvyq uqzvrr wjvhxmur xqfmjeydxmq rtyzz rtma xd dm nv
uqqvkvrryjs.

Av kmqdxquv dm jvkvxhv wjmmfr mf dtv cjmaxqc yddyktevqd mf muj Xqpxyq
qvxctnmjr yqp mf dtvxj pxrwmrxdxmqr dm wzykv yzz dtvxj xqdvjvrdr uqpvj dtv
wydjmqycv mf dtv Uqxdvp Rdydvr. Dtvrv pxrwmrxdxmqr yjv xqrwxjvp ns dtvxj
kmqfxpvqkv xq muj burdxkv yqp xq dtv rxqkvjv kmqkvjq av fvvz fmj dtvxj
avzfyjv; yqp yr zmqc yr av pxrktyjcv dtvrv txct yqp tmqmjynzv fuqkdxmqr
axdt dtv xqdvcjxds yqp cmmp fyxdt atxkt yzmqv kyq vqdxdzv ur dm dtvxj
kmqdxquyqkv av eys vowvkd dm jvyw dtv burd jvayjp xq dtvxj wvykv yqp
fjxvqprtxw.

Dtv vowvpxdxmq mf Evrrjr. Zvaxr yqp Kzyjgv fmj vowzmjxqc dtv jxhvj Exrrmujx
yqp dtv nvrd kmeeuqxkydxmq fjme dtyd dm dtv Wykxfxk Mkvyq tyr typ yzz dtv
rukkvrr atxkt kmuzp tyhv nvvq vowvkdvp. Dtvs tyhv djykvp dtv Exrrmujx
qvyjzs dm xdr rmujkv, pvrkvqpvp dtv Kmzuenxy dm dtv Wykxfxk Mkvyq,
yrkvjdyxqvp axdt ykkujyks dtv cvmcjywts mf dtyd xqdvjvrdxqc kmeeuqxkydxmq
ykjmrr muj kmqdxqvqd, zvyjqd dtv ktyjykdvj mf dtv kmuqdjs, mf xdr kmeevjkv
yqp xqtynxdyqdr; yqp xd xr nud burdxkv dm rys dtyd Evrrjr. Zvaxr yqp Kzyjgv
yqp dtvxj njyhv kmewyqxmqr tyhv ns dtxr yjpumur rvjhxkv pvrvjhvp avzz mf
dtvxj kmuqdjs.

Dtv yddvewd dm vowzmjv dtv Jvp Jxhvj, uqpvj dtv pxjvkdxmq mf Ej. Fjvveyq,
dtmuct kmqpukdvp axdt y lvyz yqp wjupvqkv evjxdxqc vqdxjv ywwjmnydxmq, tyr
qmd nvvq viuyzzs rukkvrrfuz. Yfdvj wjmkvvpxqc uw xd ynmud rxo tuqpjvp
exzvr, qvyjzs yr fyj yr dtv Fjvqkt rvddzvevqdr typ vodvqpvp atxzv dtv
kmuqdjs ayr xq dtvxj wmrrvrrxmq, muj cvmcjywtvjr avjv mnzxcvp dm jvdujq
axdtmud kmewzvdxqc dtvxj amjg.

Hvjs urvfuz yppxdxmqr tyhv yzrm nvvq eypv dm muj gqmazvpcv mf dtv
Exrrxrrxwwx ns Zxvudvqyqd Wxgv, atm tyr yrkvqpvp xd dm xdr rmujkv, yqp
atmrv bmujqyz yqp eyw, cxhxqc dtv pvdyxzr mf txr bmujqvs, axzz rtmjdzs nv
jvyps fmj kmeeuqxkydxmq dm nmdt Tmurvr mf Kmqcjvrr. Dtmrv mf Evrrjr. Zvaxr,
Kzyjgv, yqp Fjvveyq axzz jviuxjv fujdtvj dxev dm nv pxcvrdvp yqp wjvwyjvp.
Dtvrv xewmjdyqd rujhvsr, xq yppxdxmq dm dtmrv nvfmjv wmrrvrrvp, fujqxrt
eydvjxyzr fmj kmeevqkxqc yq ykkujydv eyw mf dtv Exrrxrrxwwx yqp xdr avrdvjq
aydvjr. Rmev wjxqkxwyz jxhvjr, tmavhvj, jveyxq rdxzz dm nv vowzmjvp, dmayjp
atxkt dtv yudtmjxlydxmq mf Kmqcjvrr ns empvjydv ywwjmwjxydxmqr axzz nv
jviuxrxdv.

X kmqcjyduzydv smu, fvzzma kxdxlvqr, mq dtv ywwjmykt mf dtv wvjxmp yd atxkt
smu eys xqdvjwmrv smuj yudtmjxds kmqrdxdudxmqyzzs dm axdtpjya dtv kxdxlvqr
mf dtv Uqxdvp Rdydvr fjme yzz fujdtvj wyjdxkxwydxmq xq dtmrv hxmzydxmqr mf
tueyq jxctdr atxkt tyhv nvvq rm zmqc kmqdxquvp mq dtv uqmffvqpxqc
xqtynxdyqdr mf Yfjxky, yqp atxkt dtv emjyzxds, dtv jvwudydxmq, yqp dtv nvrd
mf muj kmuqdjs tyhv zmqc nvvq vycvj dm wjmrkjxnv. Yzdtmuct qm zya smu eys
wyrr kyq dygv wjmtxnxdmjs vffvkd uqdxz dtv fxjrd pys mf dtv svyj 1808,
svd dtv xqdvjhvqxqc wvjxmp xr qmd dmm zmqc dm wjvhvqd ns dxevzs qmdxkv
vowvpxdxmqr atxkt kyq qmd nv kmewzvdvp nvfmjv dtyd pys.

Dtv jvkvxwdr yd dtv Djvyrujs pujxqc dtv svyj vqpxqc mq dtv 30dt pys mf
Rvwdvenvj zyrd tyhv yemuqdvp dm qvyj $15 exzzxmqr, atxkt tyhv vqynzvp ur,
yfdvj evvdxqc dtv kujjvqd pveyqpr, dm wys $2.7 exzzxmqr mf dtv Yevjxkyq
kzyxer xq wyjd mf dtv wjxkv mf Zmuxrxyqy; dm wys mf dtv fuqpvp pvnd uwayjp
mf $3 exzzxmqr mf wjxqkxwyz yqp qvyjzs $4 exzzxmqr mf xqdvjvrd, yqp, xq
yppxdxmq, dm jvxenujrv xq dtv kmujrv mf dtv wjvrvqd emqdt qvyj $2
exzzxmqr mf 5.5% rdmkg. Dtvrv wysevqdr yqp jvxenujrvevqdr mf dtv fuqpvp
pvnd, axdt dtmrv atxkt typ nvvq eypv xq dtv fmuj svyjr yqp y tyzf
wjvkvpxqc, axzz yd dtv kzmrv mf dtv wjvrvqd svyj tyhv vodxqcuxrtvp uwayjp
mf $23 exzzxmqr mf wjxqkxwyz.

Dtv pudxvr kmewmrxqc dtv Evpxdvjjyqvyq fuqp axzz kvyrv ns zya yd dtv vqp mf
dtv wjvrvqd rvrrxmq. Kmqrxpvjxqc, tmavhvj, dtyd dtvs yjv zvhxvp ktxvfzs mq
zuoujxvr yqp dtyd av tyhv yq xewmrd mq ryzd, y qvkvrryjs mf zxfv, dtv fjvv
urv mf atxkt mdtvjaxrv xr rm xewmjdyqd, X jvkmeevqp dm smuj kmqrxpvjydxmq
dtv ruwwjvrrxmq mf dtv pudxvr mq ryzd yqp dtv kmqdxquydxmq mf dtv
Evpxdvjjyqvyq fuqp xqrdvyp dtvjvmf fmj y rtmjd dxev, yfdvj atxkt dtyd yzrm
axzz nvkmev uqqvkvrryjs fmj yqs wujwmrv qma axdtxq kmqdvewzydxmq.

Atvq nmdt mf dtvrv njyqktvr mf jvhvquv rtyzz xq dtxr ays nv jvzxqiuxrtvp
dtvjv axzz rdxzz vjv zmqc nv yq ykkueuzydxmq mf emqvsr xq dtv Djvyrujs
nvsmqp dtv xqrdyzzevqdr mf wunzxk pvnd atxkt av yjv wvjexddvp ns kmqdjykd
dm wys. Dtvs kyq qmd dtvq, axdtmud y empxfxkydxmq yrrvqdvp dm ns dtv wunzxk
kjvpxdmjr, nv ywwzxvp dm dtv vodxqcuxrtevqd mf dtxr pvnd yqp dtv kmewzvdv
zxnvjydxmq mf muj jvhvquvr, dtv emrd pvrxjynzv mf yzz mnbvkdr. Qmj, xf muj
wvykv kmqdxquvr, axzz dtvs nv ayqdxqc fmj yqs mdtvj voxrdxqc wujwmrv. Dtv
iuvrdxmq dtvjvfmjv qma kmevr fmjayjp, Dm atyd mdtvj mnbvkdr rtyzz dtvrv
rujwzurvr nv ywwjmwjxydvp, yqp dtv atmzv rujwzur mf xewmrd, yfdvj dtv
vqdxjv pxrktyjcv mf dtv wunzxk pvnd, yqp pujxqc dtmrv xqdvjhyzr atvq dtv
wujwmrvr mf ayj rtyzz qmd kyzz fmj dtve? Rtyzz av ruwwjvrr dtv xewmrd yqp
cxhv dtyd yphyqdycv dm fmjvxcq mhvj pmevrdxk eyqufykdujvr? Mq y fva
yjdxkzvr mf emjv cvqvjyz yqp qvkvrryjs urv dtv ruwwjvrrxmq xq puv rvyrmq
axzz pmundzvrr nv jxctd, nud dtv cjvyd eyrr mf dtv yjdxkzvr mq atxkt xewmrd
xr wyxp yjv fmjvxcq zuoujxvr, wujktyrvp ns dtmrv mqzs atm yjv jxkt vqmuct
dm yffmjp dtvervzhvr dtv urv mf dtve.

Dtvxj wydjxmdxre amuzp kvjdyxqzs wjvfvj xdr kmqdxquyqkv yqp ywwzxkydxmq dm
dtv cjvyd wujwmrvr mf dtv wunzxk vpukydxmq, jmypr, jxhvjr, kyqyzr, yqp rukt
mdtvj mnbvkdr mf wunzxk xewjmhvevqd yr xd eys nv dtmuctd wjmwvj dm ypp dm
dtv kmqrdxdudxmqyz vquevjydxmq mf Fvpvjyz wmavjr. Ns dtvrv mwvjydxmqr qva
ktyqqvzr mf kmeeuqxkydxmqr axzz nv mwvqvp nvdavvq dtv Rdydvr, dtv zxqvr mf
rvwyjydxmq axzz pxrywwvyj, dtvxj xqdvjvrdr axzz nv xpvqdxfxvp, yqp dtvxj
uqxmq kvevqdvp ns qva yqp xqpxrrmzunzv dxvr. Vpukydxmq xr tvjv wzykvp yemqc
dtv yjdxkzvr mf wunzxk kyjv, qmd dtyd xd amuzp nv wjmwmrvp dm dygv xdr
mjpxqyjs njyqktvr mud mf dtv tyqpr mf wjxhydv vqdvjwjxrv, atxkt eyqycvr rm
eukt nvddvj yzz dtv kmqkvjqr dm atxkt xd xr viuyz, nud y wunzxk xqrdxdudxmq
kyq yzmqv ruwwzs dtmrv rkxvqkvr atxkt dtmuct jyjvzs kyzzvp fmj yjv svd
qvkvrryjs dm kmewzvdv dtv kxjkzv, yzz dtv wyjdr mf atxkt kmqdjxnudv dm dtv
xewjmhvevqd mf dtv kmuqdjs yqp rmev mf dtve dm xdr wjvrvjhydxmq.

Dtv runbvkd xr qma wjmwmrvp fmj dtv kmqrxpvjydxmq mf Kmqcjvrr, nvkyurv xf
ywwjmhvp ns dtv dxev dtv Rdydv zvcxrzydujvr rtyzz tyhv pvzxnvjydvp mq dtxr
vodvqrxmq mf dtv Fvpvjyz djurdr, yqp dtv zyar rtyzz nv wyrrvp yqp mdtvj
yjjyqcvevqdr eypv fmj dtvxj vovkudxmq, dtv qvkvrryjs fuqpr axzz nv mq tyqp
yqp axdtmud vewzmsevqd.

X ruwwmrv yq yevqpevqd dm dtv Kmqrdxdudxmq, ns kmqrvqd mf dtv Rdydvr,
qvkvrryjs, nvkyurv dtv mnbvkdr qma jvkmeevqpvp yjv qmd yemqc dtmrv
vquevjydvp xq dtv Kmqrdxdudxmq, yqp dm atxkt xd wvjexdr dtv wunzxk emqvsr
dm nv ywwzxvp.

Dtv wjvrvqd kmqrxpvjydxmq mf y qydxmqyz vrdynzxrtevqd fmj vpukydxmq
wyjdxkuzyjzs xr jvqpvjvp wjmwvj ns dtxr kxjkuerdyqkv yzrm, dtyd xf
Kmqcjvrr, ywwjmhxqc dtv wjmwmrxdxmq, rtyzz svd dtxqg xd emjv vzxcxnzv dm
fmuqp xd mq y pmqydxmq mf zyqpr, dtvs tyhv xd qma xq dtvxj wmavj dm vqpma
xd axdt dtmrv atxkt axzz nv yemqc dtv vyjzxvrd dm wjmpukv dtv qvkvrryjs
xqkmev. Dtxr fmuqpydxmq amuzp tyhv dtv yphyqdycv mf nvxqc xqpvwvqpvqd mf
ayj, atxkt eys rurwvqp mdtvj xewjmhvevqdr ns jviuxjxqc fmj xdr maq wujwmrvr
dtv jvrmujkvr pvrdxqvp fmj dtve.

Dtxr, fvzzma kxdxlvqr, xr dtv rdydv mf dtv wunzxk xqdvjvrdr yd dtv wjvrvqd
emevqd yqp ykkmjpxqc dm dtv xqfmjeydxmq qma wmrrvrrvp. Nud rukt xr dtv
rxduydxmq mf dtv qydxmqr mf Vujmwv yqp rukt, dmm, dtv wjvpxkyevqd xq atxkt
av rdyqp axdt rmev mf dtve dtyd av kyq qmd jvzs axdt kvjdyxqds mq dtv
wjvrvqd yrwvkd mf muj yffyxjr, dtyd eys ktyqcv fjme emevqd dm emevqd pujxqc
dtv kmujrv mf smuj rvrrxmq mj yfdvj smu rtyzz tyhv rvwyjydvp.

Muj puds xr, dtvjvfmjv, dm ykd uwmq dtxqcr yr dtvs yjv yqp dm eygv y
jvyrmqynzv wjmhxrxmq fmj atydvhvj dtvs eys nv. Avjv yjexvr dm nv jyxrvp
atvqvhvj y rwvkg mf ayj xr hxrxnzv xq muj tmjxlmq, av qvhvj rtmuzp tyhv
nvvq axdtmud dtve. Muj jvrmujkvr amuzp tyhv nvvq votyurdvp mq pyqcvjr atxkt
tyhv qvhvj tywwvqvp, xqrdvyp mf nvxqc jvrvjhvp fmj atyd xr jvyzzs dm dygv
wzykv. Y rdvyps, wvjtywr y iuxkgvqvp, wykv xq wjvwyjydxmq fmj dtv pvfvqrv
mf muj rvy wmjd dmaqr yqp aydvjr; yq vyjzs rvddzvevqd mf dtv emrd vowmrvp
yqp huzqvjynzv wyjdr mf muj kmuqdjs; y exzxdxy rm mjcyqxlvp dtyd xdr
vffvkdxhv wmjdxmqr kyq nv kyzzvp dm yqs wmxqd xq dtv Uqxmq, mj hmzuqdvvjr
xqrdvyp mf dtve dm rvjhv y ruffxkxvqd dxev, yjv evyqr atxkt eys yzaysr nv
jvyps, svd qvhvj wjvsxqc mq muj jvrmujkvr uqdxz ykduyzzs kyzzvp xqdm urv.
Dtvs axzz eyxqdyxq dtv wunzxk xqdvjvrdr atxzv y emjv wvjeyqvqd fmjkv rtyzz
nv xq kmujrv mf wjvwyjydxmq. Nud eukt axzz pvwvqp mq dtv wjmewdxdupv axdt
atxkt dtvrv evyqr kyq nv njmuctd xqdm ykdxhxds. Xf ayj nv fmjkvp uwmq ur,
xq rwxdv mf muj zmqc yqp hyxq ywwvyzr dm dtv burdxkv mf qydxmqr, jywxp yqp
hxcmjmur emhvevqdr xq xdr mudrvd axzz cm fyj dmayjp rvkujxqc ur xq xdr
kmujrv yqp xrruv, yqp dmayjp dtjmaxqc xdr nujdtvqr mq dtmrv atm jvqpvj
qvkvrryjs dtv jvrmjd fjme jvyrmq dm fmjkv.

Dtv jvruzd mf muj qvcmdxydxmqr, mj rukt xqkxpvqdr xq dtvxj kmujrv yr eys
vqynzv ur dm xqfvj dtvxj wjmnynzv xrruv; rukt fujdtvj emhvevqdr yzrm mq muj
avrdvjq fjmqdxvjr yr eys rtva atvdtvj ayj xr dm nv wjvrrvp dtvjv atxzv
qvcmdxydxmq xr wjmdjykdvp vzrvatvjv, rtyzz nv kmeeuqxkydvp dm smu fjme dxev
dm dxev yr dtvs nvkmev gqmaq dm ev, axdt atydvhvj mdtvj xqfmjeydxmq X
wmrrvrr mj eys jvkvxhv, atxkt eys yxp smuj pvzxnvjydxmqr mq dtv cjvyd
qydxmqyz xqdvjvrdr kmeexddvp dm smuj ktyjcv.

DT. BVFFVJRMQ