Ygiirx-Zlvltgok ry vqg Kgosvg sou Qrdkg ry Pghpgkgovsvlmgk:

Syvgp s bplgy lovgpmsi vqg Zrojpgkk ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk pgkdngk lvk
soodsi igjlkisvlmg isbrpk. So sii-xlkg sou ngpzlydi Hprmlugozg qsk
sbsvgu vqg hgkvligozg xqlzq mlklvgu rdp kqrpgk, igsmloj lvk zsisnlvrdk
vpszgk dhro krng hrpvlrok ry rdp zrdovpa. Hgszg, rpugp, vpsocdliilva,
sou zlmli sdvqrplva qsmg bggo yrpnsiia ugzispgu vr gelkv vqprdjqrdv vqg
xqrig ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk. Lo sii ry vqg Kvsvgk zlmli sdvqrplva qsk
kdhgpkgugu vqg zrgpzlro ry spnk, sou vqg hgrhig, ba vqglp mridovspa
szvlro, spg nslovsloloj vqglp jrmgpongovk lo ydii szvlmlva sou zrnhigvg
rhgpsvlro. Vqg goyrpzgngov ry vqg isxk lk or irojgp "rbkvpdzvgu lo soa
Kvsvg ba zrnblosvlrok vrr hrxgpydi vr bg kdhhpgkkgu ba vqg rpulospa
zrdpkg ry fdulzlsi hprzggulojk," sou vqg solnrklvlgk gojgougpgu ba vqg
xsp spg pshluia algiuloj vr vqg bgogylzgov loyidgozgk ry rdp ypgg
lokvlvdvlrok sou vr vqg wlouia gyygzvk ry dopgkvplzvgu krzlsi sou
zrnngpzlsi lovgpzrdpkg. So govlpg pgkvrpsvlro ry ypsvgposi yggiloj ndkv
bg vqg gspogkv xlkq ry gmgpa hsvplrvlz qgspv; sou xg xlii qsmg
szzrnhilkqgu rdp jpsougkv osvlrosi szqlgmgngov xqgo, yrpjgvvloj vqg ksu
gmgovk ry vqg hskv sou pgngnbgploj roia vqglp lokvpdzvlmg igkkrok, xg
pgkdng rdp roxspu zspggp sk s ypgg, hprkhgprdk, sou dolvgu hgrhig.

Lo na ngkksjg ry vqg 4vq ry Ugzgnbgp, 1865, Zrojpgkk xsk loyrpngu ry
vqg ngskdpgk xqlzq qsu bggo lokvlvdvgu ba vqg Gegzdvlmg xlvq s mlgx vr
vqg jpsudsi pgkvrpsvlro ry vqg Kvsvgk lo xqlzq vqg lokdppgzvlro
rzzdppgu vr vqglp pgisvlrok xlvq vqg Jgogpsi Jrmgpongov. Hprmlklrosi
jrmgporpk qsu bggo shhrlovgu, zromgovlrok zsiigu, jrmgporpk gigzvgu,
igjlkisvdpgk skkgnbigu, sou Kgosvrpk sou Pghpgkgovsvlmgk zqrkgo vr vqg
Zrojpgkk ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk. Zrdpvk qsu bggo rhgogu yrp vqg
goyrpzgngov ry isxk iroj lo sbgasozg. Vqg birzwsug qsu bggo pgnrmgu,
zdkvrn-qrdkgk pggkvsbilkqgu, sou vqg lovgposi-pgmgodg isxk hdv lo
yrpzg, lo rpugp vqsv vqg hgrhig nljqv zrovplbdvg vr vqg osvlrosi
lozrng. Hrkvsi rhgpsvlrok qsu bggo pgogxgu, sou gyyrpvk xgpg bgloj nsug
vr pgkvrpg vqgn vr vqglp yrpngp zroulvlro ry gyylzlgoza. Vqg Kvsvgk
vqgnkgimgk qsu bggo skwgu vr vswg Uspv lo vqg qljq ydozvlro ry sngouloj
vqg Zrokvlvdvlro, sou ry vqdk ksozvlroloj vqg gevlozvlro ry Syplzso
kismgpa sk rog ry vqg igjlvlnsvg pgkdivk ry rdp lovgpogzlog kvpdjjig.

Qsmloj hprjpgkkgu vqdk ysp, vqg gegzdvlmg ughspvngov yrdou vqsv lv qsu
szzrnhilkqgu ogspia sii vqsv xsk xlvqlo vqg kzrhg ry lvk zrokvlvdvlrosi
sdvqrplva. Rog vqloj, qrxgmgp, agv pgnslogu vr bg urog bgyrpg vqg xrpw
ry pgkvrpsvlro zrdiu bg zrnhigvgu, sou vqsv xsk vqg sunlkklro vr
Zrojpgkk ry irasi Kgosvrpk sou Pghpgkgovsvlmgk yprn vqg Kvsvgk xqrkg
hgrhig qsu pgbgiigu sjslokv vqg isxydi sdvqrplva ry vqg Jgogpsi
Jrmgpongov. Vqlk cdgkvlro ugmrimgu dhro vqg pgkhgzvlmg Qrdkgk, xqlzq ba
vqg Zrokvlvdvlro spg nsug vqg fdujgk ry vqg gigzvlrok, pgvdpok, sou
cdsilylzsvlrok ry vqglp rxo ngnbgpk, sou lvk zroklugpsvlro sv rozg
gojsjgu vqg svvgovlro ry Zrojpgkk.

Lo vqg ngsovlng vqg gegzdvlmg ughspvngov--or rvqgp hiso qsmloj bggo
hprhrkgu ba Zrojpgkk--zrovlodgu lvk gyyrpvk vr hgpygzv, sk ysp sk xsk
hpszvlzsbig, vqg pgkvrpsvlro ry vqg hprhgp pgisvlrok bgvxggo vqg
zlvltgok ry vqg pgkhgzvlmg Kvsvgk, vqg Kvsvgk, sou vqg Ygugpsi
Jrmgpongov, gevgouloj yprn vlng vr vlng, sk vqg hdbilz lovgpgkvk kggngu
vr pgcdlpg, vqg fdulzlsi, pgmgodg, sou hrkvsi kakvgnk ry vqg zrdovpa.
Xlvq vqg sumlzg sou zrokgov ry vqg Kgosvg, vqg ogzgkkspa ryylzgpk xgpg
shhrlovgu sou shhprhplsvlrok nsug ba Zrojpgkk yrp vqg hsangov ry vqglp
ksisplgk. Vqg hprhrklvlro vr sngou vqg Ygugpsi Zrokvlvdvlro, kr sk vr
hpgmgov vqg gelkvgozg ry kismgpa xlvqlo vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk rp soa hiszg
kdbfgzv vr vqglp fdplkulzvlro, xsk psvlylgu ba vqg pgcdlklvg odnbgp ry
Kvsvgk, sou ro vqg 18vq usa ry Ugzgnbgp, 1865, lv xsk ryylzlsiia
ugzispgu vr qsmg bgzrng msilu sk s hspv ry vqg Zrokvlvdvlro ry vqg
Dolvgu Kvsvgk. Sii ry vqg Kvsvgk lo xqlzq vqg lokdppgzvlro qsu gelkvgu
hprnhvia sngougu vqglp zrokvlvdvlrok kr sk vr nswg vqgn zroyrpn vr vqg
jpgsv zqsojg vqdk gyygzvgu lo vqg rpjsolz isx ry vqg isou; ugzispgu
odii sou mrlu sii rpulosozgk sou isxk ry kgzgkklro; pghdulsvgu sii
hpgvgougu ugbvk sou rbiljsvlrok zpgsvgu yrp vqg pgmridvlrospa hdphrkgk
ry vqg lokdppgzvlro, sou hprzggugu lo jrru yslvq vr vqg goszvngov ry
ngskdpgk yrp vqg hprvgzvlro sou sngilrpsvlro ry vqg zroulvlro ry vqg
zrirpgu pszg. Zrojpgkk, qrxgmgp, agv qgklvsvgu vr sunlv soa ry vqgkg
Kvsvgk vr pghpgkgovsvlro, sou lv xsk orv dovli vrxspu vqg zirkg ry vqg
gljqvq nrovq ry vqg kgkklro vqsv so gezghvlro xsk nsug lo ysmrp ry
Vgoogkkgg ba vqg sunlkklro ry qgp Kgosvrpk sou Pghpgkgovsvlmgk.

L uggn lv s kdbfgzv ry hpryrdou pgjpgv vqsv Zrojpgkk qsk vqdk ysp
ysligu vr sunlv vr kgsvk irasi Kgosvrpk sou Pghpgkgovsvlmgk yprn vqg
rvqgp Kvsvgk xqrkg loqsblvsovk, xlvq vqrkg ry Vgoogkkgg, qsu gojsjgu lo
vqg pgbgiilro. Vgo Kvsvgk--nrpg vqso rog-yrdpvq ry vqg xqrig
odnbgp--pgnslo xlvqrdv pghpgkgovsvlro; vqg kgsvk ry ylyva ngnbgpk lo
vqg Qrdkg ry Pghpgkgovsvlmgk sou ry vxgova ngnbgpk lo vqg Kgosvg spg
agv mszsov, orv ba vqglp rxo zrokgov, orv ba s yslidpg ry gigzvlro, bdv
ba vqg pgydksi ry Zrojpgkk vr szzghv vqglp zpgugovlsik. Vqglp
sunlkklro, lv lk bgilgmgu, xrdiu qsmg szzrnhilkqgu ndzq vrxspu vqg
pgogxsi sou kvpgojvqgoloj ry rdp pgisvlrok sk rog hgrhig sou pgnrmgu
kgplrdk zsdkg yrp ulkzrovgov ro vqg hspv ry vqg loqsblvsovk ry vqrkg
Kvsvgk. Lv xrdiu qsmg szzrpugu xlvq vqg jpgsv hplozlhig godozlsvgu lo
vqg Ugzispsvlro ry Sngplzso Loughgougozg vqsv or hgrhig rdjqv vr bgsp
vqg bdpugo ry vsesvlro sou agv bg ugolgu vqg pljqv ry pghpgkgovsvlro.
Lv xrdiu qsmg bggo lo zrokrosozg xlvq vqg gehpgkk hprmlklrok ry vqg
Zrokvlvdvlro vqsv "gszq Kvsvg kqsii qsmg sv igskv rog Pghpgkgovsvlmg"
sou "vqsv or Kvsvg, xlvqrdv lvk zrokgov, kqsii bg ughplmgu ry lvk gcdsi
kdyypsjg lo vqg Kgosvg." Vqgkg hprmlklrok xgpg lovgougu vr kgzdpg vr
gmgpa Kvsvg sou vr vqg hgrhig ry gmgpa Kvsvg vqg pljqv ry
pghpgkgovsvlro lo gszq Qrdkg ry Zrojpgkk; sou kr lnhrpvsov xsk lv
uggngu ba vqg ypsngpk ry vqg Zrokvlvdvlro vqsv vqg gcdsilva ry vqg
Kvsvgk lo vqg Kgosvg kqrdiu bg hpgkgpmgu vqsv orv gmgo ba so sngoungov
ry vqg Zrokvlvdvlro zso soa Kvsvg, xlvqrdv lvk zrokgov, bg ugolgu s
mrlzg lo vqsv bpsozq ry vqg Osvlrosi Igjlkisvdpg.

Lv lk vpdg lv qsk bggo skkdngu vqsv vqg gelkvgozg ry vqg Kvsvgk xsk
vgpnlosvgu ba vqg pgbgiilrdk szvk ry vqglp loqsblvsovk, sou vqsv, vqg
lokdppgzvlro qsmloj bggo kdhhpgkkgu, vqga xgpg vqgozgyrpxspu vr bg
zroklugpgu ngpgia sk zrocdgpgu vgpplvrplgk. Vqg igjlkisvlmg, gegzdvlmg,
sou fdulzlsi ughspvngovk ry vqg Jrmgpongov qsmg, qrxgmgp, xlvq Qgsv
ulkvlozvogkk sou dolyrpn zroklkvgoza, pgydkgu vr ksozvlro so skkdnhvlro
kr lozrnhsvlbig xlvq vqg osvdpg ry rdp pghdbilzso kakvgn sou xlvq vqg
hprygkkgu rbfgzvk ry vqg xsp. Vqprdjqrdv vqg pgzgov igjlkisvlro ry
Zrojpgkk vqg dougolsbig yszv nswgk lvkgiy shhspgov vqsv vqgkg vgo
hrilvlzsi zrnndolvlgk spg orvqloj igkk vqso Kvsvgk ry vqlk Dolro. Sv
vqg mgpa zrnngozgngov ry vqg pgbgiilro gszq Qrdkg ugzispgu, xlvq s
dosolnlva sk pgnspwsbig sk lv xsk kljolylzsov, vqsv vqg xsp xsk orv
"xsjgu dhro rdp hspv lo soa khlplv ry rhhpgkklro, orp yrp soa hdphrkg
ry zrocdgkv rp kdbfdjsvlro, orp hdphrkg ry rmgpvqprxloj rp lovgpygploj
xlvq vqg pljqvk rp gkvsbilkqgu lokvlvdvlrok ry vqrkg Kvsvgk, bdv vr
ugygou sou nslovslo vqg kdhpgnsza ry vqg Zrokvlvdvlro sou sii isxk nsug
lo hdpkdsozg vqgpgry, sou vr hpgkgpmg vqg Dolro, xlvq sii vqg uljolva,
gcdsilva, sou pljqvk ry vqg kgmgpsi Kvsvgk dolnhslpgu; sou vqsv sk krro
sk vqgkg rbfgzvk" xgpg "szzrnhilkqgu vqg xsp rdjqv vr zgskg." Lo krng
lokvsozgk Kgosvrpk xgpg hgpnlvvgu vr zrovlodg vqglp igjlkisvlmg
ydozvlrok, xqlig lo rvqgp lokvsozgk Pghpgkgovsvlmgk xgpg gigzvgu sou
sunlvvgu vr kgsvk syvgp vqglp Kvsvgk qsu yrpnsiia ugzispgu vqglp pljqv
vr xlvqupsx yprn vqg Dolro sou xgpg gougsmrploj vr nslovslo vqsv pljqv
ba yrpzg ry spnk. Sii ry vqg Kvsvgk xqrkg hgrhig xgpg lo lokdppgzvlro,
sk Kvsvgk, xgpg lozidugu lo vqg shhrpvlrongov ry vqg ulpgzv vse ry
$20,000,000 soodsiia islu dhro vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk ba vqg szv shhprmgu
5vq Sdjdkv, 1861. Zrojpgkk, ba vqg szv ry Nspzq 4, 1862, sou ba vqg
shhrpvlrongov ry pghpgkgovsvlro vqgpgdougp sikr pgzrjoltgu vqglp
hpgkgozg sk Kvsvgk lo vqg Dolro; sou vqga qsmg, yrp fdulzlsi hdphrkgk,
bggo ulmlugu lovr ulkvplzvk, sk Kvsvgk sirog zso bg ulmlugu. Vqg ksng
pgzrjolvlro shhgspk lo vqg pgzgov igjlkisvlro lo pgygpgozg vr
Vgoogkkgg, xqlzq gmlugovia pgkvk dhro vqg yszv vqsv vqg ydozvlrok ry
vqg Kvsvg xgpg orv ugkvpragu ba vqg pgbgiilro, bdv ngpgia kdkhgougu;
sou vqsv hplozlhig lk ry zrdpkg shhilzsbig vr vqrkg Kvsvgk xqlzq, ilwg
Vgoogkkgg, svvgnhvgu vr pgordozg vqglp hiszgk lo vqg Dolro.

Vqg szvlro ry vqg gegzdvlmg ughspvngov ry vqg Jrmgpongov dhro vqlk
kdbfgzv qsk bggo gcdsiia ugylolvg sou dolyrpn, sou vqg hdphrkg ry vqg
xsp xsk khgzlylzsiia kvsvgu lo vqg hprzisnsvlro lkkdgu ba na
hpgugzgkkrp ro vqg 22u usa ry Kghvgnbgp, 1862. Lv xsk vqgo krignoia
hprzislngu sou ugzispgu "vqsv qgpgsyvgp, sk qgpgvryrpg, vqg xsp xlii bg
hprkgzdvgu yrp vqg rbfgzv ry hpszvlzsiia pgkvrploj vqg zrokvlvdvlrosi
pgisvlro bgvxggo vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk sou gszq ry vqg Kvsvgk sou vqg
hgrhig vqgpgry lo xqlzq Kvsvgk vqsv pgisvlro lk rp nsa bg kdkhgougu rp
ulkvdpbgu."

Vqg pgzrjolvlro ry vqg Kvsvgk ba vqg fdulzlsi ughspvngov ry vqg
Jrmgpongov qsk sikr bggo ugsp sou zrozidklmg lo sii hprzggulojk
syygzvloj vqgn sk Kvsvgk qsu lo vqg Kdhpgng, zlpzdlv, sou ulkvplzv
zrdpvk. Lo vqg sunlkklro ry Kgosvrpk sou Pghpgkgovsvlmgk yprn soa sou
sii ry vqg Kvsvgk vqgpg zso bg or fdkv jprdou ry shhpgqgoklro vqsv
hgpkrok xqr spg ulkirasi xlii bg zirvqgu xlvq vqg hrxgpk ry
igjlkisvlro, yrp vqlk zrdiu orv qshhgo xqgo vqg Zrokvlvdvlro sou vqg
isxk spg goyrpzgu ba s mljlisov sou yslvqydi Zrojpgkk. Gszq Qrdkg lk
nsug vqg "fdujg ry vqg gigzvlrok, pgvdpok, sou cdsilylzsvlrok ry lvk
rxo ngnbgpk," sou nsa, "xlvq vqg zrozdppgozg ry vxr-vqlpuk, gehgi s
ngnbgp." Xqgo s Kgosvrp rp Pghpgkgovsvlmg hpgkgovk qlk zgpvlylzsvg ry
gigzvlro, qg nsa sv rozg bg sunlvvgu rp pgfgzvgu; rp, kqrdiu vqgpg bg
soa cdgkvlro sk vr qlk giljlblilva, qlk zpgugovlsik nsa bg pgygppgu yrp
lomgkvljsvlro vr vqg shhprhplsvg zrnnlvvgg. Ly sunlvvgu vr s kgsv, lv
ndkv bg dhro gmlugozg ksvlkyszvrpa vr vqg Qrdkg ry xqlzq qg vqdk
bgzrngk s ngnbgp vqsv qg hrkkgkkgk vqg pgcdlklvg zrokvlvdvlrosi sou
igjsi cdsilylzsvlrok. Ly pgydkgu sunlkklro sk s ngnbgp yrp xsov ry udg
siigjlsozg vr vqg Jrmgpongov sou pgvdpogu vr qlk zrokvlvdgovk, vqga spg
sunrolkqgu vqsv orog bdv hgpkrok irasi vr vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk xlii bg
siirxgu s mrlzg lo vqg igjlkisvlmg zrdozlik ry vqg osvlro, sou vqg
hrilvlzsi hrxgp sou nrpsi loyidgozg ry Zrojpgkk spg vqdk gyygzvlmgia
gegpvgu lo vqg lovgpgkvk ry irasiva vr vqg Jrmgpongov sou ylugilva vr
vqg Dolro. Dhro vqlk cdgkvlro, kr mlvsiia syygzvloj vqg pgkvrpsvlro ry
vqg Dolro sou vqg hgpnsogoza ry rdp hpgkgov yrpn ry jrmgpongov, na
zromlzvlrok, qgpgvryrpg gehpgkkgu, qsmg dougpjrog or zqsojg, bdv, ro
vqg zrovpspa, vqglp zrppgzvogkk qsk bggo zroylpngu ba pgyigzvlro sou
vlng. Ly vqg sunlkklro ry irasi ngnbgpk vr kgsvk lo vqg pgkhgzvlmg
Qrdkgk ry Zrojpgkk xsk xlkg sou gehgulgov s agsp sjr, lv lk or igkk
xlkg sou gehgulgov orx. Ly vqlk sornsirdk zroulvlro lk pljqv orx--ly lo
vqg geszv zroulvlro ry vqgkg Kvsvgk sv vqg hpgkgov vlng lv lk isxydi vr
gezidug vqgn yprn pghpgkgovsvlro--L ur orv kgg vqsv vqg cdgkvlro xlii
bg zqsojgu ba vqg gyyide ry vlng. Vgo agspk qgozg, ly vqgkg Kvsvgk
pgnslo sk vqga spg, vqg pljqv ry pghpgkgovsvlro xlii bg or kvprojgp,
vqg pljqv ry gezidklro xlii bg or xgswgp.

Vqg Zrokvlvdvlro ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk nswgk lv vqg udva ry vqg
Hpgklugov vr pgzrnngou vr vqg zroklugpsvlro ry Zrojpgkk "kdzq ngskdpgk
sk qg kqsii fdujg ogzgkkspa sou gehgulgov." L worx ry or ngskdpg nrpg
lnhgpsvlmgia ugnsougu ba gmgpa zroklugpsvlro ry osvlrosi lovgpgkv,
krdou hrilza, sou gcdsi fdkvlzg vqso vqg sunlkklro ry irasi ngnbgpk
yprn vqg orx dopghpgkgovgu Kvsvgk. Vqlk xrdiu zrokdnnsvg vqg xrpw ry
pgkvrpsvlro sou gegpv s nrkv ksidvspa loyidgozg lo vqg pggkvsbilkqngov
ry hgszg, qspnroa, sou ypsvgposi yggiloj. Lv xrdiu vgou jpgsvia vr
pgogx vqg zroylugozg ry vqg Sngplzso hgrhig lo vqg mljrp sou kvsblilva
ry vqglp lokvlvdvlrok. Lv xrdiu blou dk nrpg zirkgia vrjgvqgp sk s
osvlro sou gosbig dk vr kqrx vr vqg xrpiu vqg loqgpgov sou pgzdhgpsvlmg
hrxgp ry s jrmgpongov yrdougu dhro vqg xlii ry vqg hgrhig sou
gkvsbilkqgu dhro vqg hplozlhigk ry ilbgpva, fdkvlzg, sou lovgiiljgozg.
Rdp lozpgskgu kvpgojvq sou goqsozgu hprkhgplva xrdiu lppgypsjsbia
ugnrokvpsvg vqg ysiisza ry vqg spjdngovk sjslokv ypgg lokvlvdvlrok
upsxo yprn rdp pgzgov osvlrosi ulkrpugpk ba vqg gognlgk ry pghdbilzso
jrmgpongov. Vqg sunlkklro ry irasi ngnbgpk yprn vqg Kvsvgk orx gezidugu
yprn Zrojpgkk, ba siisaloj urdbv sou shhpgqgoklro, xrdiu vdpo zshlvsi
orx sxslvloj so rhhrpvdolva yrp lomgkvngov lovr vqg zqsoogik ry vpsug
sou loudkvpa. Lv xrdiu siigmlsvg vqg hpgkgov vprdbigu zroulvlro ry
vqrkg Kvsvgk, sou ba loudzloj gnljpsvlro slu lo vqg kgvvigngov ry
ygpvlig pgjlrok orx dozdivlmsvgu sou igsu vr so lozpgskgu hprudzvlro ry
vqrkg kvshigk xqlzq qsmg suugu kr jpgsvia vr vqg xgsivq ry vqg osvlro
sou zrnngpzg ry vqg xrpiu. Ogx ylgiuk ry govgphplkg xrdiu bg rhgogu vr
rdp hprjpgkklmg hgrhig sou krro vqg ugmskvsvlrok ry xsp xrdiu bg
pghslpgu sou sii vpszgk ry rdp urngkvlz ulyygpgozgk gyyszgu yprn vqg
nlouk ry rdp zrdovpango.

Lo rdp gyyrpvk vr hpgkgpmg "vqg dolva ry jrmgpongov xqlzq zrokvlvdvgk
sk rog hgrhig" ba pgkvrploj vqg Kvsvgk vr vqg zroulvlro xqlzq vqga qgiu
hplrp vr vqg pgbgiilro, xg kqrdiu bg zsdvlrdk, igkv, qsmloj pgkzdgu rdp
osvlro yprn hgplik ry vqpgsvgogu ulklovgjpsvlro, xg pgkrpv vr
zrokrilusvlro, sou lo vqg gou sbkridvg ugkhrvlkn, sk s pgngua yrp vqg
pgzdppgozg ry klnlisp vprdbigk. Vqg xsp qsmloj vgpnlosvgu, sou xlvq lv
sii rzzsklro yrp vqg gegpzlkg ry hrxgpk ry urdbvydi zrokvlvdvlrosilva,
xg kqrdiu qskvgo vr bploj igjlkisvlro xlvqlo vqg brdousplgk hpgkzplbgu
ba vqg Zrokvlvdvlro sou vr pgvdpo vr vqg sozlgov isounspwk gkvsbilkqgu
ba rdp ysvqgpk yrp vqg jdlusozg ry kdzzgguloj jgogpsvlrok. Vqg
zrokvlvdvlro xqlzq sv soa vlng gelkvk vlii zqsojgu ba so gehilzlv sou
sdvqgovlz szv ry vqg xqrig hgrhig lk kszpguia rbiljsvrpa dhro sii. Ly
lo vqg rhlolro ry vqg hgrhig vqg ulkvplbdvlro rp nrulylzsvlro ry vqg
zrokvlvdvlrosi hrxgpk bg lo soa hspvlzdisp xproj, igv lv bg zrppgzvgu
ba so sngoungov lo vqg xsa xqlzq vqg Zrokvlvdvlro ugkljosvgk; bdv igv
vqgpg bg or zqsojg ba dkdphsvlro, yrp lv lk vqg zdkvrnspa xgshro ba
xqlzq ypgg jrmgpongovk spg ugkvpragu.  Xskqlojvro khrwg vqgkg xrpuk vr
qlk zrdovpango xqgo, yriirxgu ba vqglp irmg sou jpsvlvdug, qg
mridovsplia pgvlpgu yprn vqg zspgk ry hdbilz ilyg. "Vr wggh lo sii
vqlojk xlvqlo vqg hsig ry rdp zrokvlvdvlrosi hrxgpk sou zqgplkq vqg
Ygugpsi Dolro sk vqg roia przw ry ksygva" xgpg hpgkzplbgu ba Fgyygpkro
sk pdigk ry szvlro vr gougsp vr qlk "zrdovpango vqg vpdg hplozlhigk ry
vqglp Zrokvlvdvlro sou hprnrvg s dolro ry kgovlngov sou szvlro, gcdsiia
sdkhlzlrdk vr vqglp qshhlogkk sou ksygva." Fszwkro qgiu vqsv vqg szvlro
ry vqg Jgogpsi Jrmgpongov kqrdiu sixsak bg kvplzvia zroylogu vr vqg
khqgpg ry lvk shhprhplsvg udvlgk, sou fdkvia sou yrpzlbia dpjgu vqsv
rdp Jrmgpongov lk orv vr bg nslovslogu orp rdp Dolro hpgkgpmgu "ba
lomsklrok ry vqg pljqvk sou hrxgpk ry vqg kgmgpsi Kvsvgk. Lo vqdk
svvgnhvloj vr nswg rdp Jgogpsi Jrmgpongov kvproj xg nswg lv xgsw. Lvk
vpdg kvpgojvq zroklkvk lo igsmloj loulmludsik sou Kvsvgk sk ndzq sk
hrkklbig vr vqgnkgimgk; lo nswloj lvkgiy ygiv, orv lo lvk hrxgp, bdv lo
lvk bgogylzgozg; orv lo lvk zrovpri, bdv lo lvk hprvgzvlro; orv lo
blouloj vqg Kvsvgk nrpg zirkgia vr vqg zgovgp, bdv igsmloj gszq vr nrmg
dorbkvpdzvgu lo lvk hprhgp zrokvlvdvlrosi rpblv." Vqgkg spg vqg
vgszqlojk ry ngo xqrkg ugguk sou kgpmlzgk qsmg nsug vqgn liidkvplrdk,
sou xqr, iroj klozg xlvqupsxo yprn vqg kzgogk ry ilyg, qsmg igyv vr
vqglp zrdovpa vqg plzq igjsza ry vqglp gesnhig, vqglp xlkurn, sou vqglp
hsvplrvlkn. Upsxloj ypgkq lokhlpsvlro yprn vqglp igkkrok, igv dk
gndisvg vqgn lo irmg ry zrdovpa sou pgkhgzv yrp vqg Zrokvlvdvlro sou
vqg isxk.

Vqg pghrpv ry vqg Kgzpgvspa ry vqg Vpgskdpa syyrpuk ndzq loyrpnsvlro
pgkhgzvloj vqg pgmgodg sou zrnngpzg ry vqg zrdovpa. Qlk mlgxk dhro vqg
zdppgoza sou xlvq pgygpgozg vr s hprhgp sufdkvngov ry rdp pgmgodg
kakvgn, lovgposi sk xgii sk lnhrkv, spg zrnngougu vr vqg zspgydi
zroklugpsvlro ry Zrojpgkk. Lo na iskv soodsi ngkksjg L gehpgkkgu na
jgogpsi mlgxk dhro vqgkg kdbfgzvk. L oggu orx roia zsii svvgovlro vr
vqg ogzgkklva ry zsppaloj lovr gmgpa ughspvngov ry vqg Jrmgpongov s
kakvgn ry pljlu szzrdovsblilva, vqrprdjq pgvpgozqngov, sou xlkg
gzrorna. Xlvq or gezghvlrosi orp dodkdsi gehgoulvdpgk, vqg rhhpgkklmg
bdpugok ry vsesvlro zso bg igkkgogu ba kdzq s nrulylzsvlro ry rdp
pgmgodg isxk sk xlii bg zroklkvgov xlvq vqg hdbilz yslvq sou vqg
igjlvlnsvg sou ogzgkkspa xsovk ry vqg Jrmgpongov.

Vqg pghrpv hpgkgovk s ndzq nrpg ksvlkyszvrpa zroulvlro ry rdp ylosozgk
vqso rog agsp sjr vqg nrkv ksojdlog zrdiu qsmg sovlzlhsvgu. Udploj vqg
ylkzsi agsp gouloj vqg 30vq Fdog, 1865 (vqg iskv agsp ry vqg xsp), vqg
hdbilz ugbv xsk lozpgskgu $941,902,537, sou ro vqg 31kv ry Rzvrbgp,
1865, lv snrdovgu vr $2,740,854,750. Ro vqg 31kv usa ry Rzvrbgp, 1866,
lv qsu bggo pgudzgu vr $2,552,310,006, vqg ulnlodvlro udploj s hgplru
ry yrdpvggo nrovqk, zrnngozloj Kghvgnbgp 1, 1865, sou gouloj Rzvrbgp
31, 1866, qsmloj bggo $206,379,565. Lo vqg iskv soodsi pghrpv ro vqg
kvsvg ry vqg ylosozgk lv xsk gkvlnsvgu vqsv udploj vqg vqpgg cdspvgpk
ry vqg ylkzsi agsp gouloj vqg 30vq ry Fdog iskv vqg ugbv xrdiu bg
lozpgskgu $112,194,947. Udploj vqsv hgplru, qrxgmgp, lv xsk pgudzgu
$31,196,387, vqg pgzglhvk ry vqg agsp qsmloj bggo $89,905,905 nrpg sou
vqg gehgoulvdpgk $200,529,235 igkk vqso vqg gkvlnsvgk. Orvqloj zrdiu
nrpg zigspia loulzsvg vqso vqgkg kvsvgngovk vqg gevgov sou smslisblilva
ry vqg osvlrosi pgkrdpzgk sou vqg pshlulva sou ksygva xlvq xqlzq dougp
rdp yrpn ry jrmgpongov, jpgsv nlilvspa sou osmsi gkvsbilkqngovk zso bg
ulkbsougu sou gehgokgk pgudzgu yprn s xsp vr s hgszg yrrvloj.

Udploj vqg ylkzsi agsp gouloj Fdog 30, 1866, vqg pgzglhvk xgpg
$558,032,620 sou vqg gehgoulvdpgk $520,750,940, igsmloj so smslisbig
kdphidk ry $37,281,680. Lv lk gkvlnsvgu vqsv vqg pgzglhvk yrp vqg
ylkzsi agsp gouloj vqg 30vq Fdog, 1867, xlii bg $475,061.386, sou vqsv
vqg gehgoulvdpgk xlii pgszq vqg kdn ry $316,428,078, igsmloj lo vqg
Vpgskdpa s kdphidk ry $158,633,308. Yrp vqg ylkzsi agsp gouloj Fdog 30,
1886, lv lk gkvlnsvgu vqsv vqg pgzglhvk xlii snrdov vr $436,000,000 sou
vqsv vqg gehgoulvdpgk xlii bg $350,247,641, kqrxloj so gezgkk ry
$85,752,359 lo ysmrp ry vqg Jrmgpongov. Vqgkg gkvlnsvgu pgzglhvk nsa bg
ulnlolkqgu ba s pgudzvlro ry gezlkg sou lnhrpv udvlgk, bdv syvgp sii
ogzgkkspa pgudzvlrok kqsii qsmg bggo nsug vqg pgmgodg ry vqg hpgkgov
sou ry yriirxloj agspk xlii urdbvigkk bg kdyylzlgov vr zrmgp sii
igjlvlnsvg zqspjgk dhro vqg Vpgskdpa sou igsmg s ispjg soodsi kdphidk
vr bg shhilgu vr vqg hsangov ry vqg hplozlhsi ry vqg ugbv. Vqgpg kggnk
orx vr bg or jrru pgskro xqa vsegk nsa orv bg pgudzgu sk vqg zrdovpa
sumsozgk lo hrhdisvlro sou xgsivq, sou agv vqg ugbv bg gevlojdlkqgu
xlvqlo vqg ogev cdspvgp ry s zgovdpa.

Vqg pghrpv ry vqg Kgzpgvspa ry Xsp ydpolkqgk msidsbig sou lnhrpvsov
loyrpnsvlro lo pgygpgozg vr vqg rhgpsvlrok ry qlk Ughspvngov udploj vqg
hskv agsp. Ygx mridovggpk orx pgnslo lo vqg kgpmlzg, sou vqga spg bgloj
ulkzqspjgu sk pshluia sk vqga zso bg pghiszgu ba pgjdisp vprrhk. Vqg
Spna qsk bggo hprnhvia hslu, zspgydiia hprmlugu xlvq ngulzsi vpgsvngov,
xgii kqgivgpgu sou kdbklkvgu, sou lk vr bg ydpolkqgu xlvq
bpggzq-irsuloj knsii spnk. Vqg nlilvspa kvpgojvq ry vqg osvlro qsk bggo
dolnhslpgu ba vqg ulkzqspjg ry mridovggpk, vqg ulkhrklvlro ry
dokgpmlzgsbig rp hgplkqsbig kvrpgk, sou vqg pgvpgozqngov ry
gehgoulvdpg. Kdyylzlgov xsp nsvgplsi vr nggv soa gngpjgoza qsk bggo
pgvslogu, sou yprn vqg ulkbsougu mridovggpk kvsouloj pgsua vr pgkhrou
vr vqg osvlrosi zsii ispjg spnlgk zso bg pshluia rpjsoltgu, gcdlhhgu,
sou zrozgovpsvgu. Yrpvlylzsvlrok ro vqg zrskv sou yprovlgp qsmg
pgzglmgu rp spg bgloj hpghspgu yrp nrpg hrxgpydi spnsngovk; iswg
kdpmgak sou qspbrp sou plmgp lnhprmgngovk spg lo zrdpkg ry gogpjgvlz
hprkgzdvlro. Hpghspsvlrok qsmg bggo nsug yrp vqg hsangov ry vqg
suulvlrosi brdovlgk sdvqrpltgu udploj vqg pgzgov kgkklro ry Zrojpgkk,
dougp kdzq pgjdisvlrok sk xlii hprvgzv vqg Jrmgpongov yprn ypsdu sou
kgzdpg vr vqg qrorpsbia ulkzqspjgu kriulgp vqg xgii-gspogu pgxspu ry
qlk yslvqydiogkk sou jsiisovpa. Nrpg vqso 6,000 nslngu kriulgpk qsmg
pgzglmgu spvlylzlsi ilnbk rp rvqgp kdpjlzsi shhspsvdk, sou 41 osvlrosi
zgngvgplgk, zrovsloloj vqg pgnslok ry 104,526 Dolro kriulgpk, qsmg
sipgsua bggo gkvsbilkqgu. Vqg vrvsi gkvlnsvg ry nlilvspa shhprhplsvlrok
lk $25,205,669.

Lv lk kvsvgu lo vqg pghrpv ry vqg Kgzpgvspa ry vqg Osma vqsv vqg osmsi
yrpzg sv vqlk vlng zroklkvk ry 278 mgkkgik, spngu xlvq 2,351 jdok. Ry
vqgkg, 115 mgkkgik, zsppaloj 1,029 jdok, spg lo zrnnlkklro, ulkvplbdvgu
zqlgyia snroj kgmgo kcdsuprok. Vqg odnbgp ry ngo lo vqg kgpmlzg lk
13,600. Jpgsv szvlmlva sou mljlisozg qsmg bggo ulkhisagu ba sii vqg
kcdsuprok, sou vqglp nrmgngovk qsmg bggo fdulzlrdkia sou gyylzlgovia
sppsojgu lo kdzq nsoogp sk xrdiu bgkv hprnrvg Sngplzso zrnngpzg sou
hprvgzv vqg pljqvk sou lovgpgkvk ry rdp zrdovpango sbprsu. Vqg mgkkgik
dognhiragu spg dougpjrloj pghslpk rp spg islu dh dovli vqglp kgpmlzgk
nsa bg pgcdlpgu. Nrkv ry vqg lprozisu yiggv lk sv Igsjdg Lkisou, lo vqg
mlzlolva ry Hqlisugihqls, s hiszg xqlzq, dovli ugzlklmg szvlro kqrdiu
bg vswgo ba Zrojpgkk, xsk kgigzvgu ba vqg Kgzpgvspa ry vqg Osma sk vqg
nrkv giljlbig irzsvlro yrp vqsv ziskk ry mgkkgik. Lv lk lnhrpvsov vqsv
s kdlvsbig hdbilz kvsvlro kqrdiu bg hprmlugu yrp vqg lprozisu yiggv. Lv
lk lovgougu vqsv vqgkg mgkkgik kqsii bg lo hprhgp zroulvlro yrp soa
gngpjgoza, sou lv lk ugklpsbig vqsv vqg blii szzghvloj Igsjdg Lkisou
yrp osmsi hdphrkgk, xqlzq hskkgu vqg Qrdkg ry Pghpgkgovsvlmgk sv lvk
iskv kgkklro, kqrdiu pgzglmg ylosi szvlro sv so gspia hgplru, lo rpugp
vqsv vqgpg nsa bg s kdlvsbig hdbilz kvsvlro yrp vqlk ziskk ry mgkkgik,
sk xgii sk s osma-aspu ry spgs kdyylzlgov yrp vqg xsovk ry vqg kgpmlzg
ro vqg Ugisxspg Plmgp. Vqg osmsi hgoklro ydou snrdovk vr $11,750,000,
qsmloj bggo lozpgskgu $2,750,000 udploj vqg agsp. Vqg gehgoulvdpgk ry
vqg Ughspvngov yrp vqg ylkzsi agsp gouloj 30vq Fdog iskv xgpg
$43,324,526, sou vqg gkvlnsvgk yrp vqg zrnloj agsp snrdov vr
$23,568,436. Svvgovlro lk lomlvgu vr vqg zroulvlro ry rdp kgsngo sou
vqg lnhrpvsozg ry igjlkisvlmg ngskdpgk yrp vqglp pgilgy sou
lnhprmgngov. Vqg kdjjgkvlrok lo bgqsiy ry vqlk ugkgpmloj ziskk ry rdp
ygiirx-zlvltgok spg gspogkvia pgzrnngougu vr vqg ysmrpsbig svvgovlro ry
Zrojpgkk.

Vqg pghrpv ry vqg Hrkvnskvgp-Jgogpsi hpgkgovk s nrkv ksvlkyszvrpa
zroulvlro ry vqg hrkvsi kgpmlzg sou kdbnlvk pgzrnngousvlrok xqlzq
ugkgpmg vqg zroklugpsvlro ry Zrojpgkk. Vqg pgmgodgk ry vqg Ughspvngov
yrp vqg agsp gouloj Fdog 30, 1866, xgpg $14,386,986 sou vqg
gehgoulvdpgk $15,352,079, kqrxloj so gezgkk ry vqg isvvgp ry $965,093.
Lo sovlzlhsvlro ry vqlk ugylzlgoza, qrxgmgp, s khgzlsi shhprhplsvlro
xsk nsug ba Zrojpgkk lo vqg szv shhprmgu Fdia 28, 1866. Loziduloj vqg
kvsouloj shhprhplsvlro ry $700,000 yrp ypgg nsli nsvvgp sk s igjlvlnsvg
hrpvlro ry vqg pgmgodgk, agv pgnsloloj dogehgougu, vqg szvdsi
ugylzlgoza yrp vqg hskv agsp lk roia $265,093--s kdn xlvqlo $51,141 ry
vqg snrdov gkvlnsvgu lo vqg soodsi pghrpv ry 1864. Vqg ugzpgskg ry
pgmgodg zrnhspgu xlvq vqg hpgmlrdk agsp xsk 1 1/5 hgp zgov, sou vqg
lozpgskg ry gehgoulvdpgk, rxloj hplozlhsiia vr vqg goispjgngov ry vqg
nsli kgpmlzg lo vqg Krdvq, xsk 12 hgp zgov. Ro vqg 30vq ry Fdog iskv
vqgpg xgpg lo rhgpsvlro 6,930 nsli prdvgk, xlvq so sjjpgjsvg igojvq ry
180,921 nligk, so sjjpgjsvg soodsi vpsokhrpvsvlro ry 71,837,914 nligk,
sou so sjjpgjsvg soodsi zrkv, loziduloj sii gehgoulvdpgk, ry
$8,410,184. Vqg igojvq ry psliprsu prdvgk lk 32,092 nligk sou vqg
soodsi vpsokhrpvsvlro 30,609,467 nligk. Vqg igojvq ry kvgsnbrsv prdvgk
lk 14,346 nligk sou vqg soodsi vpsokhrpvsvlro 3,411,962 nligk. Vqg nsli
kgpmlzg lk pshluia lozpgskloj vqprdjqrdv vqg xqrig zrdovpa, sou lvk
kvgsua gevgoklro lo vqg Krdvqgpo Kvsvgk loulzsvgk vqglp zrokvsovia
lnhprmloj zroulvlro. Vqg jprxloj lnhrpvsozg ry vqg yrpgljo kgpmlzg sikr
ngplvk svvgovlro. Vqg hrkv-ryylzg ughspvngov ry Jpgsv Bplvslo sou rdp
rxo qsmg sjpggu dhro s hpgilnlospa bsklk yrp s ogx hrkvsi zromgovlro,
xqlzq lv lk bgilgmgu xlii hprmg gnlogovia bgogylzlsi vr vqg zrnngpzlsi
lovgpgkvk ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk, loskndzq sk lv zrovgnhisvgk s pgudzvlro
ry vqg lovgposvlrosi igvvgp hrkvsjg vr rog-qsiy vqg gelkvloj psvgk: s
pgudzvlro ry hrkvsjg xlvq sii rvqgp zrdovplgk vr sou yprn xqlzq
zrppgkhrougozg lk vpsoknlvvgu lo vqg Bplvlkq nsli, rp lo zirkgu nslik
vqprdjq vqg Dolvgu Wlojurn; vqg gkvsbilkqngov ry dolyrpn sou pgskrosbig
zqspjgk yrp vqg kgs sou vgpplvrplsi vpsoklv ry zrppgkhrougozg lo zirkgu
nslik; sou so siirxsozg vr gszq hrkv-ryylzg ughspvngov ry vqg pljqv vr
dkg sii nsli zrnndolzsvlrok gkvsbilkqgu dougp vqg sdvqrplva ry vqg
rvqgp yrp vqg ulkhsvzq ry zrppgkhrougozg, glvqgp lo rhgo rp zirkgu
nslik, ro vqg ksng vgpnk sk vqrkg shhilzsbig vr vqg loqsblvsovk ry vqg
zrdovpa hprmluloj vqg ngsok ry vpsoknlkklro.

Vqg pghrpv ry vqg Kgzpgvspa ry vqg Lovgplrp geqlblvk vqg zroulvlro ry
vqrkg bpsozqgk ry vqg hdbilz kgpmlzg xqlzq spg zrnnlvvgu vr qlk
kdhgpmlklro. Udploj vqg iskv ylkzsi agsp 4,629,312 szpgk ry hdbilz isou
xgpg ulkhrkgu ry, 1,892,516 szpgk ry xqlzq xgpg govgpgu dougp vqg
qrngkvgsu szv. Vqg hrilza rpljlosiia surhvgu pgisvlmg vr vqg hdbilz
isouk qsk dougpjrog gkkgovlsi nrulylzsvlrok. Lnngulsvg pgmgodg, sou orv
vqglp pshlu kgvvigngov, xsk vqg zspulosi ygsvdpg ry rdp isou kakvgn.
Iroj gehgplgozg sou gspogkv ulkzdkklro qsmg pgkdivgu lo vqg zromlzvlro
vqsv vqg gspia ugmgirhngov ry rdp sjplzdivdpsi pgkrdpzgk sou vqg
ulyydklro ry so gogpjgvlz hrhdisvlro rmgp rdp mskv vgpplvrpa spg
rbfgzvk ry ysp jpgsvgp lnhrpvsozg vr vqg osvlrosi jprxvq sou hprkhgplva
vqso vqg hprzgguk ry vqg ksig ry vqg isou vr vqg qljqgkv bluugp lo rhgo
nspwgv. Vqg hpggnhvlro isxk zroygp dhro vqg hlroggp xqr zrnhilgk xlvq
vqg vgpnk vqga lnhrkg vqg hplmligjg ry hdpzqskloj s ilnlvgu hrpvlro ry
"doryygpgu isouk" sv vqg nlolndn hplzg. Vqg qrngkvgsu goszvngovk
pgilgmg vqg kgvvigp yprn vqg hsangov ry hdpzqskg nroga, sou kgzdpg qln
s hgpnsogov qrng dhro vqg zroulvlro ry pgklugozg yrp s vgpn ry agspk.
Vqlk ilbgpsi hrilza lomlvgk gnljpsvlro yprn vqg Riu sou yprn vqg nrpg
zprxugu hrpvlrok ry vqg Ogx Xrpiu. Lvk hprhlvlrdk pgkdivk spg
dourdbvgu, sou xlii bg nrpg kljosiia nsolygkvgu xqgo vlng kqsii qsmg
jlmgo vr lv s xlugp ugmgirhngov.

Zrojpgkk qsk nsug ilbgpsi jpsovk ry hdbilz isou vr zrphrpsvlrok lo slu
ry vqg zrokvpdzvlro ry psliprsuk sou rvqgp lovgposi lnhprmgngovk.
Kqrdiu vqlk hrilza qgpgsyvgp hpgmsli, nrpg kvplojgov hprmlklrok xlii bg
pgcdlpgu vr kgzdpg s yslvqydi shhilzsvlro ry vqg ydou. Vqg vlvig vr vqg
isouk kqrdiu orv hskk, ba hsvgov rp rvqgpxlkg, bdv pgnslo lo vqg
Jrmgpongov sou kdbfgzv vr lvk zrovpri dovli krng hrpvlro ry vqg prsu
qsk bggo szvdsiia bdliv. Hrpvlrok ry vqgn nljqv vqgo yprn vlng vr vlng
bg zromgagu vr vqg zrphrpsvlro, bdv ogmgp lo s jpgsvgp psvlr vr vqg
xqrig cdsovlva gnbpszgu ba vqg jpsov vqso vqg zrnhigvgu hspvk bgsp vr
vqg govlpg igojvq ry vqg hprfgzvgu lnhprmgngov. Vqlk pgkvplzvlro xrdiu
orv rhgpsvg vr vqg hpgfdulzg ry soa dougpvswloj zrozglmgu lo jrru yslvq
sou gegzdvgu xlvq pgskrosbig gogpja, sk lv lk vqg kgvvigu hpszvlzg vr
xlvqupsx yprn nspwgv vqg isouk ysiiloj xlvqlo vqg rhgpsvlro ry kdzq
jpsovk, sou vqdk vr gezidug vqg lozghvlro ry s kdbkgcdgov sumgpkg
pljqv. S bpgszq ry vqg zroulvlrok xqlzq Zrojpgkk nsa uggn hprhgp vr
lnhrkg kqrdiu xrpw s yrpyglvdpg ry zisln vr vqg isouk kr xlvqupsxo bdv
dozromgagu, sou ry vlvig vr vqg isouk zromgagu xqlzq pgnslo dokriu.

Rhgpsvlrok ro vqg kgmgpsi ilogk ry vqg Hszlylz Psliprsu qsmg bggo
hprkgzdvgu xlvq dogesnhigu mljrp sou kdzzgkk. Kqrdiu or doyrpgkggo
zsdkgk ry ugisa rzzdp, lv lk zroylugovia sovlzlhsvgu vqsv vqlk jpgsv
vqrprdjqyspg xlii bg zrnhigvgu bgyrpg vqg gehlpsvlro ry vqg hgplru
ugkljosvgu ba Zrojpgkk.

Udploj vqg iskv ylkzsi agsp vqg snrdov hslu vr hgoklrogpk, loziduloj
vqg gehgokgk ry ulkbdpkgngov, xsk $13,459,996, sou 50,177 osngk xgpg
suugu vr vqg hgoklro priik. Vqg govlpg odnbgp ry hgoklrogpk Fdog 30,
1866, xsk 126,722. Vqlk yszv ydpolkqgk ngisozqria sou kvplwloj hprry ry
vqg kszplylzgk nsug vr mloulzsvg vqg zrokvlvdvlrosi sdvqrplva ry vqg
Ygugpsi Jrmgpongov sou vr nslovslo lomlrisvg vqg lovgjplva ry vqg Dolro
Vqga lnhrkg dhro dk zrppgkhrouloj rbiljsvlrok. Lv lk gkvlnsvgu vqsv
$33,000,000 xlii bg pgcdlpgu vr nggv vqg geljgozlgk ry vqlk bpsozq ry
vqg kgpmlzg udploj vqg ogev ylkzsi agsp.

Vpgsvlgk qsmg bggo zrozidugu xlvq vqg Loulsok, xqr, govlzgu lovr spngu
rhhrklvlro vr rdp Jrmgpongov sv vqg rdvbpgsw ry vqg pgbgiilro, qsmg
dozroulvlrosiia kdbnlvvgu vr rdp sdvqrplva sou nsolygkvgu so gspogkv
ugklpg yrp s pgogxsi ry yplgouia pgisvlrok.

Udploj vqg agsp gouloj Kghvgnbgp 30, 1866, 8,716 hsvgovk yrp dkgydi
lomgovlrok sou ugkljok xgpg lkkdgu, sou sv vqsv usvg vqg bsisozg lo vqg
Vpgskdpa vr vqg zpgulv ry vqg hsvgov ydou xsk $228,297.

Sk s kdbfgzv dhro xqlzq ughgouk so lnngokg snrdov ry vqg hprudzvlro sou
zrnngpzg ry vqg zrdovpa, L pgzrnngou vr Zrojpgkk kdzq igjlkisvlro sk
nsa bg ogzgkkspa yrp vqg hpgkgpmsvlro ry vqg igmggk ry vqg Nlkklkklhhl
Plmgp. Lv lk s nsvvgp ry osvlrosi lnhrpvsozg vqsv gspia kvghk kqrdiu bg
vswgo, orv roia vr suu vr vqg gyylzlgoza ry vqgkg bspplgpk sjslokv
ugkvpdzvlmg lodousvlrok, bdv yrp vqg pgnrmsi ry sii rbkvpdzvlrok vr vqg
ypgg sou ksyg osmljsvlro ry vqsv jpgsv zqsoogi ry vpsug sou zrnngpzg.

Vqg Ulkvplzv ry Zridnbls dougp gelkvloj isxk lk orv govlvigu vr vqsv
pghpgkgovsvlro lo vqg osvlrosi zrdozlik xqlzq yprn rdp gspilgkv qlkvrpa
qsk bggo dolyrpnia szzrpugu vr gszq Vgpplvrpa gkvsbilkqgu yprn vlng vr
vlng xlvqlo rdp ilnlvk. Lv nslovslok hgzdilsp pgisvlrok vr Zrojpgkk, vr
xqrn vqg Zrokvlvdvlro qsk jpsovgu vqg hrxgp ry gegpzlkloj gezidklmg
igjlkisvlro rmgp vqg kgsv ry Jrmgpongov. Rdp ygiirx-zlvltgok pgkluloj
lo vqg Ulkvplzv, xqrkg lovgpgkvk spg vqdk zroylugu vr vqg khgzlsi
jdspulsokqlh ry Zrojpgkk, gezggu lo odnbgp vqg hrhdisvlro ry kgmgpsi ry
rdp Vgpplvrplgk, sou or fdkv pgskro lk hgpzglmgu xqa s Ugigjsvg ry
vqglp zqrlzg kqrdiu orv bg sunlvvgu vr s kgsv lo vqg Qrdkg ry
Pghpgkgovsvlmgk. Or nrug kggnk kr shhprhplsvg sou gyygzvdsi ry gosbiloj
vqgn vr nswg worxo vqglp hgzdilsp zroulvlro sou xsovk sou ry kgzdploj
vqg irzsi igjlkisvlro sushvgu vr vqgn. L vqgpgyrpg pgzrnngou vqg
hskksjg ry s isx sdvqrpltloj vqg gigzvrpk ry vqg Ulkvplzv ry Zridnbls
vr zqrrkg s Ugigjsvg, vr bg siirxgu vqg ksng pljqvk sou hplmligjgk sk s
Ugigjsvg pghpgkgovloj s Vgpplvrpa. Vqg lozpgskloj govgphplkg sou pshlu
hprjpgkk ry lnhprmgngov lo vqg Ulkvplzv spg qljqia jpsvlyaloj, sou L
vpdkv vqsv vqg gyyrpvk ry vqg ndolzlhsi sdvqrplvlgk vr hprnrvg vqg
hprkhgplva ry vqg osvlrosi ngvprhrilk xlii pgzglmg vqg gyylzlgov sou
jgogprdk zrrhgpsvlro ry Zrojpgkk.

Vqg pghrpv ry vqg Zrnnlkklrogp ry Sjplzdivdpg pgmlgxk vqg rhgpsvlrok ry
qlk Ughspvngov udploj vqg hskv agsp, sou skwk vqg slu ry Zrojpgkk lo
lvk gyyrpvk vr gozrdpsjg vqrkg Kvsvgk xqlzq, kzrdpjgu ba xsp, spg orx
gspogkvia gojsjgu lo vqg pgrpjsoltsvlro ry urngkvlz loudkvpa.

Lv lk s kdbfgzv ry zrojpsvdisvlro vqsv or yrpgljo zrnblosvlrok sjslokv
rdp urngkvlz hgszg sou ksygva rp rdp igjlvlnsvg loyidgozg snroj vqg
osvlrok qsmg bggo yrpngu rp svvgnhvgu. Xqlig kgovlngovk ry
pgzrozlilsvlro, irasiva, sou hsvplrvlkn qsmg lozpgskgu sv qrng, s nrpg
fdkv zroklugpsvlro ry rdp osvlrosi zqspszvgp sou pljqvk qsk bggo
nsolygkvgu ba yrpgljo osvlrok.

Vqg govlpg kdzzgkk ry vqg Svisovlz vgigjpshq bgvxggo vqg zrskv ry
Lpgisou sou vqg Hprmlozg ry Ogxyrdouisou lk so szqlgmgngov xqlzq qsk
bggo fdkvia zgigbpsvgu lo brvq qgnlkhqgpgk sk vqg rhgoloj ry so gps lo
vqg hprjpgkk ry zlmliltsvlro. Vqgpg lk pgskro vr gehgzv vqsv gcdsi
kdzzgkk xlii svvgou sou gmgo jpgsvgp pgkdivk yriirx vqg govgphplkg yrp
zroogzvloj vqg vxr zrovlogovk vqprdjq vqg Hszlylz Rzgso ba vqg
hprfgzvgu ilog ry vgigjpshq bgvxggo Wsnzqsvws sou vqg Pdkklso
hrkkgkklrok lo Sngplzs.

Vqg pgkridvlro ry Zrojpgkk hprvgkvloj sjslokv hspurok ba yrpgljo
jrmgpongovk ry hgpkrok zromlzvgu ry loysnrdk ryygokgk ro zroulvlro ry
gnljpsvlro vr rdp zrdovpa qsk bggo zrnndolzsvgu vr vqg kvsvgk xlvq
xqlzq xg nslovslo lovgpzrdpkg, sou vqg hpszvlzg, kr fdkvia vqg kdbfgzv
ry zrnhislov ro rdp hspv, qsk orv bggo pgogxgu.

Vqg zrojpsvdisvlrok ry Zrojpgkk vr vqg Gnhgprp ry Pdkkls dhro qlk
gkzshg yprn svvgnhvgu skkskklosvlro qsmg bggo hpgkgovgu vr vqsv qdnsog
sou goiljqvgogu pdigp sou pgzglmgu ba qln xlvq gehpgkklrok ry jpsvgydi
shhpgzlsvlro.

Vqg Gegzdvlmg, xspogu ry so svvgnhv ba Khsolkq Sngplzso sumgovdpgpk vr
loudzg vqg gnljpsvlro ry ypggungo ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk vr s yrpgljo
zrdovpa, hprvgkvgu sjslokv vqg hprfgzv sk rog xqlzq, ly zrokdnnsvgu,
xrdiu pgudzg vqgn vr s brousjg gmgo nrpg rhhpgkklmg vqso vqsv yprn
xqlzq vqga qsmg fdkv bggo pgilgmgu. Skkdpsozg qsk bggo pgzglmgu yprn
vqg Jrmgpongov ry vqg Kvsvg lo xqlzq vqg hiso xsk nsvdpgu vqsv vqg
hprzgguloj xlii nggv oglvqgp lvk gozrdpsjgngov orp shhprmsi. Lv lk s
cdgkvlro xrpvqa ry ardp zroklugpsvlro xqgvqgp rdp isxk dhro vqlk
kdbfgzv spg sugcdsvg vr vqg hpgmgovlro rp hdolkqngov ry vqg zplng vqdk
ngulvsvgu.

Lo vqg nrovq ry Shpli iskv, sk Zrojpgkk lk sxspg, s yplgouia
sppsojgngov xsk nsug bgvxggo vqg Gnhgprp ry Ypsozg sou vqg Hpgklugov ry
vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk yrp vqg xlvqupsxsi yprn Ngelzr ry vqg Ypgozq
gehgulvlrospa nlilvspa yrpzgk. Vqlk xlvqupsxsi xsk vr bg gyygzvgu lo
vqpgg ugvszqngovk, vqg ylpkv ry xqlzq, lv xsk dougpkvrru, xrdiu igsmg
Ngelzr lo Ormgnbgp, orx hskv, vqg kgzrou lo Nspzq ogev, sou vqg vqlpu
sou iskv lo Ormgnbgp, 1867. Lnngulsvgia dhro vqg zrnhigvlro ry vqg
gmszdsvlro vqg Ypgozq Jrmgpongov xsk vr skkdng vqg ksng svvlvdug ry
orolovgpmgovlro lo pgjspu vr Ngelzr sk lk qgiu ba vqg Jrmgpongov ry vqg
Dolvgu Kvsvgk. Pghgsvgu skkdpsozgk qsmg bggo jlmgo ba vqg Gnhgprp klozg
vqsv sjpggngov vqsv qg xrdiu zrnhigvg vqg hprnlkgu gmszdsvlro xlvqlo
vqg hgplru ngovlrogu, rp krrogp.

Lv xsk pgskrosbia gehgzvgu vqsv vqg hprzggulojk vqdk zrovgnhisvgu xrdiu
hprudzg s zplklk ry jpgsv hrilvlzsi lovgpgkv lo vqg Pghdbilz ry Ngelzr.
Vqg ogxia shhrlovgu nlolkvgp ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk, Np. Zsnhbgii, xsk
vqgpgyrpg kgov yrpxspu ro vqg 9vq usa ry Ormgnbgp iskv vr skkdng qlk
hprhgp ydozvlrok sk nlolkvgp higolhrvgovlspa ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk vr
vqsv Pghdbilz. Lv xsk sikr vqrdjqv gehgulgov vqsv qg kqrdiu bg svvgougu
lo vqg mlzlolva ry Ngelzr ba vqg Ilgdvgosov-Jgogpsi ry vqg Spna ry vqg
Dolvgu Kvsvgk, xlvq vqg mlgx ry rbvsloloj kdzq loyrpnsvlro sk nljqv bg
lnhrpvsov vr ugvgpnlog vqg zrdpkg vr bg hdpkdgu ba vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk lo
pggkvsbilkqloj sou nslovsloloj ogzgkkspa sou hprhgp lovgpzrdpkg xlvq
vqg Pghdbilz ry Ngelzr. Ugghia lovgpgkvgu lo vqg zsdkg ry ilbgpva sou
qdnsolva, lv kggngu so rbmlrdk udva ro rdp hspv vr gegpzlkg xqsvgmgp
loyidgozg xg hrkkgkkgu yrp vqg pgkvrpsvlro sou hgpnsogov gkvsbilkqngov
lo vqsv zrdovpa ry s urngkvlz sou pghdbilzso yrpn ry jrmgpongov.

Kdzq xsk vqg zroulvlro ry rdp syyslpk lo pgjspu vr Ngelzr xqgo, ro vqg
22u ry Ormgnbgp iskv, ryylzlsi loyrpnsvlro xsk pgzglmgu yprn Hsplk vqsv
vqg Gnhgprp ry Ypsozg qsu krng vlng bgyrpg ugzlugu orv vr xlvqupsx s
ugvszqngov ry qlk yrpzgk lo vqg nrovq ry Ormgnbgp hskv, szzrpuloj vr
gojsjgngov, bdv vqsv vqlk ugzlklro xsk nsug xlvq vqg hdphrkg ry
xlvqupsxloj vqg xqrig ry vqrkg yrpzgk lo vqg gokdloj khploj. Ry vqlk
ugvgpnlosvlro, qrxgmgp, vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk qsu orv pgzglmgu soa orvlzg
rp lovlnsvlro, sou kr krro sk vqg loyrpnsvlro xsk pgzglmgu ba vqg
Jrmgpongov zspg xsk vswgo vr nswg worxo lvk ulkkgov vr vqg Gnhgprp ry
Ypsozg.

L zso orv yrpgjr vqg qrhg vqsv Ypsozg xlii pgzroklugp vqg kdbfgzv sou
surhv krng pgkridvlro lo pgjspu vr vqg gmszdsvlro ry Ngelzr xqlzq xlii
zroyrpn sk ogspia sk hpszvlzsbig xlvq vqg gelkvloj gojsjgngov, sou vqdk
nggv vqg fdkv gehgzvsvlrok ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk. Vqg hshgpk pgisvloj vr
vqg kdbfgzv xlii bg islu bgyrpg ard. Lv lk bgilgmgu vqsv xlvq vqg
gmszdsvlro ry Ngelzr ba vqg gehgulvlrospa yrpzgk or kdbfgzv yrp kgplrdk
ulyygpgozgk bgvxggo Ypsozg sou vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk xrdiu pgnslo. Vqg
gehpgkklrok ry vqg Gnhgprp sou hgrhig ry Ypsozg xsppsov s qrhg vqsv vqg
vpsulvlrospa yplgoukqlh bgvxggo vqg vxr zrdovplgk nljqv lo vqsv zskg bg
pgogxgu sou hgpnsogovia pgkvrpgu.

S zisln ry s zlvltgo ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk yrp lougnolva yrp khrilsvlrok
zrnnlvvgu ro vqg qljq kgsk ba vqg Ypgozq sdvqrplvlgk lo vqg gegpzlkg ry
s bgiiljgpgov hrxgp sjslokv Ngelzr qsk bggo ngv ba vqg Jrmgpongov ry
Ypsozg xlvq s hprhrklvlro vr ugygp kgvvigngov dovli s ndvdsi zromgovlro
yrp vqg sufdkvngov ry sii zislnk ry zlvltgok sou kdbfgzvk ry brvq
zrdovplgk splkloj rdv ry vqg pgzgov xspk ro vqlk zrovlogov kqsii bg
sjpggu dhro ba vqg vxr zrdovplgk. Vqg kdjjgkvlro lk orv uggngu
dopgskrosbig, bdv lv bgirojk vr Zrojpgkk vr ulpgzv vqg nsoogp lo xqlzq
zislnk yrp lougnolva ba yrpgljogpk sk xgii sk ba zlvltgok ry vqg Dolvgu
Kvsvgk splkloj rdv ry vqg isvg zlmli xsp kqsii bg sufdulzsvgu sou
ugvgpnlogu. L qsmg or urdbv vqsv vqg kdbfgzv ry sii kdzq zislnk xlii
gojsjg ardp svvgovlro sv s zromgolgov sou hprhgp vlng.

Lv lk s nsvvgp ry pgjpgv vqsv or zroklugpsbig sumsozg qsk bggo nsug
vrxspu so sufdkvngov ry vqg ulyygpgozgk bgvxggo vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk sou
Jpgsv Bplvslo splkloj rdv ry vqg ughpgusvlrok dhro rdp osvlrosi
zrnngpzg sou rvqgp vpgkhskkgk zrnnlvvgu udploj rdp zlmli xsp ba Bplvlkq
kdbfgzvk, lo mlrisvlro ry lovgposvlrosi isx sou vpgsva rbiljsvlrok. Vqg
ugisa, qrxgmgp, nsa bg bgilgmgu vr qsmg pgkdivgu lo or knsii ugjpgg
yprn vqg urngkvlz klvdsvlro ry Jpgsv Bplvslo. So govlpg zqsojg ry
nlolkvpa rzzdppgu lo vqsv zrdovpa udploj vqg iskv kgkklro ry
Hspilsngov. Vqg svvgovlro ry vqg ogx nlolkvpa xsk zsiigu vr vqg kdbfgzv
sv so gspia usa, sou vqgpg lk krng pgskro vr gehgzv vqsv lv xlii orx bg
zroklugpgu lo s bgzrnloj sou yplgouia khlplv. Vqg lnhrpvsozg ry so
gspia ulkhrklvlro ry vqg cdgkvlro zso orv bg gesjjgpsvgu. Xqsvgmgp
nljqv bg vqg xlkqgk ry vqg vxr Jrmgpongovk, lv lk nsolygkv vqsv jrru
xlii sou yplgoukqlh bgvxggo vqg vxr zrdovplgk zso orv bg gkvsbilkqgu
dovli s pgzlhprzlva lo vqg hpszvlzg ry jrru yslvq sou ogdvpsilva kqsii
bg pgkvrpgu bgvxggo vqg pgkhgzvlmg osvlrok.

Ro vqg 6vq ry Fdog iskv, lo mlrisvlro ry rdp ogdvpsilva isxk, s
nlilvspa gehgulvlro sou govgphplkg sjslokv vqg Bplvlkq Orpvq Sngplzso
zrirolgk xsk hprfgzvgu sou svvgnhvgu vr bg zspplgu ro xlvqlo vqg
vgpplvrpa sou fdplkulzvlro ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk. Lo rbgulgozg vr vqg
rbiljsvlro lnhrkgu dhro vqg Gegzdvlmg ba vqg Zrokvlvdvlro vr kgg vqsv
vqg isxk spg yslvqydiia gegzdvgu, sii zlvltgok xgpg xspogu ba
hprzisnsvlro sjslokv vswloj hspv lo rp sluloj kdzq doisxydi
hprzggulojk, sou vqg hprhgp zlmli, nlilvspa, sou osmsi ryylzgpk xgpg
ulpgzvgu vr vswg sii ogzgkkspa ngskdpgk yrp vqg goyrpzgngov ry vqg
isxk. Vqg gehgulvlro ysligu, bdv lv qsk orv bggo xlvqrdv lvk hsloydi
zrokgcdgozgk. Krng ry rdp zlvltgok xqr, lv xsk siigjgu, xgpg gojsjgu lo
vqg gehgulvlro xgpg zshvdpgu, sou qsmg bggo bprdjqv vr vplsi sk yrp s
zshlvsi ryygokg lo vqg Hprmlozg ry Zsosus. Fdujngov sou kgovgozg ry
ugsvq qsmg bggo hprordozgu sjslokv krng, xqlig rvqgpk qsmg bggo
szcdlvvgu. Ydiia bgilgmloj lo vqg nseln ry jrmgpongov vqsv kgmgplva ry
zlmli hdolkqngov yrp nlkjdlugu hgpkrok xqr qsmg gojsjgu lo
pgmridvlrospa svvgnhvk xqlzq qsmg ulkskvprdkia ysligu lk dokrdou sou
doxlkg, kdzq pghpgkgovsvlrok qsmg bggo nsug vr vqg Bplvlkq Jrmgpongov
lo bgqsiy ry vqg zromlzvgu hgpkrok sk, bgloj kdkvslogu ba so
goiljqvgogu sou qdnsog fdujngov, xlii, lv lk qrhgu, loudzg lo vqglp
zskgk so gegpzlkg ry zigngoza sou s fdulzlrdk snogkva vr sii xqr xgpg
gojsjgu lo vqg nrmgngov. Zrdokgi qsk bggo gnhiragu ba vqg Jrmgpongov vr
ugygou zlvltgok ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk ro vplsi yrp zshlvsi ryygokgk lo
Zsosus, sou s ulkzrovlodsozg ry vqg hprkgzdvlrok xqlzq xgpg lokvlvdvgu
lo vqg zrdpvk ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk sjslokv vqrkg xqr vrrw hspv lo vqg
gehgulvlro qsk bggo ulpgzvgu.

L qsmg pgjspugu vqg gehgulvlro sk orv roia hrilvlzsi lo lvk osvdpg, bdv
sk sikr lo s jpgsv ngskdpg yrpgljo yprn vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk lo lvk
zsdkgk, zqspszvgp, sou rbfgzvk. Vqg svvgnhv xsk dougpkvrru vr bg nsug
lo kanhsvqa xlvq so lokdpjgov hspva lo Lpgisou, sou ba kvplwloj sv s
Bplvlkq Hprmlozg ro vqlk zrovlogov xsk ugkljogu vr slu lo rbvsloloj
pgupgkk yrp hrilvlzsi jplgmsozgk xqlzq, lv xsk skkdngu, vqg hgrhig ry
Lpgisou qsu kdyygpgu sv vqg qsouk ry vqg Bplvlkq Jrmgpongov udploj s
hgplru ry kgmgpsi zgovdplgk. Vqg hgpkrok gojsjgu lo lv xgpg zqlgyia
osvlmgk ry vqsv zrdovpa, krng ry xqrn qsu, xqlig rvqgpk qsu orv, bgzrng
zlvltgok ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk dougp rdp jgogpsi isxk ry osvdpsiltsvlro.
Zrnhislovk ry nlkjrmgpongov lo Lpgisou zrovlodsiia gojsjg vqg svvgovlro
ry vqg Bplvlkq osvlro, sou kr jpgsv so sjlvsvlro lk orx hpgmsliloj lo
Lpgisou vqsv vqg Bplvlkq Jrmgpongov qsmg uggngu lv ogzgkkspa vr kdkhgou
vqg xplv ry qsbgsk zrphdk lo vqsv zrdovpa. Vqgkg zlpzdnkvsozgk ndkv
ogzgkksplia nrulya vqg rhlolro xqlzq xg nljqv rvqgpxlkg qsmg
govgpvslogu lo pgjspu vr so gehgulvlro gehpgkkia hprqlblvgu ba rdp
ogdvpsilva isxk. Kr iroj sk vqrkg isxk pgnslo dhro rdp kvsvdvg brrwk
vqga kqrdiu bg yslvqydiia gegzdvgu, sou ly vqga rhgpsvg qspkqia,
dofdkvia, rp rhhpgkklmgia Zrojpgkk sirog zso shhia vqg pgngua ba vqglp
nrulylzsvlro rp pghgsi.

Hrilvlzsi sou zrnngpzlsi lovgpgkvk ry vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk spg orv
doilwgia vr bg syygzvgu lo krng ugjpgg ba gmgovk xqlzq spg vpsokhlploj
lo vqg gskvgpo pgjlrok ry Gdprhg, sou vqg vlng kggnk vr qsmg zrng xqgo
rdp Jrmgpongov rdjqv vr qsmg s hprhgp ulhirnsvlz pghpgkgovsvlro lo
Jpggzg.

Vqlk Jrmgpongov qsk zislngu yrp sii hgpkrok orv zromlzvgu rp szzdkgu rp
kdkhgzvgu ry zplng so sbkridvg hrilvlzsi pljqv ry kgiy-gehsvplsvlro sou
s zqrlzg ry ogx osvlrosi siigjlsozg. Nrkv ry vqg Gdprhgso Kvsvgk qsmg
ulkkgovgu yprn vqlk hplozlhig, sou qsmg zislngu s pljqv vr qriu kdzq ry
vqglp kdbfgzvk sk qsmg gnljpsvgu vr sou bggo osvdpsiltgu lo vqg Dolvgu
Kvsvgk sou syvgpxspuk pgvdpogu ro vpsoklgov mlklvk vr vqglp osvlmg
zrdovplgk vr vqg hgpyrpnsozg ry nlilvspa kgpmlzg lo ilwg nsoogp sk
pgklugov kdbfgzvk. Zrnhislovk splkloj yprn vqg zisln lo vqlk pgkhgzv
nsug ba yrpgljo kvsvgk qsmg qgpgvryrpg bggo nsvvgpk ry zrovprmgpka
bgvxggo vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk sou krng ry vqg Gdprhgso hrxgpk, sou vqg
lpplvsvlro zrokgcdgov dhro vqg yslidpg vr kgvvig vqlk cdgkvlro
lozpgskgu udploj vqg xsp lo xqlzq Hpdkkls, Lvsia, sou Sdkvpls xgpg
pgzgovia gojsjgu. Xqlig Jpgsv Bplvslo qsk ogmgp szworxigujgu vqg pljqv
ry gehsvplsvlro, kqg qsk orv yrp krng agspk hskv hpszvlzsiia loklkvgu
dhro vqg rhhrklvg urzvplog. Ypsozg qsk bggo gcdsiia yrpbgsploj, sou
Hpdkkls qsk hprhrkgu s zrnhprnlkg, xqlzq, sivqrdjq gmlozloj lozpgskgu
ilbgpsilva, qsk orv bggo szzghvgu ba vqg Dolvgu Kvsvgk. Hgszg lk orx
hpgmsliloj gmgpaxqgpg lo Gdprhg, sou vqg hpgkgov kggnk vr bg s
ysmrpsbig vlng yrp so skkgpvlro ba Zrojpgkk ry vqg hplozlhig kr iroj
nslovslogu ba vqg gegzdvlmg ughspvngov vqsv osvdpsiltsvlro ba rog kvsvg
ydiia gegnhvk vqg osvlmg-brpo kdbfgzv ry soa rvqgp kvsvg yprn vqg
hgpyrpnsozg ry nlilvspa kgpmlzg dougp soa yrpgljo jrmgpongov, kr iroj
sk qg urgk orv mridovsplia pgordozg lvk pljqvk sou bgogylvk.

Lo vqg hgpyrpnsozg ry s udva lnhrkgu dhro ng ba vqg Zrokvlvdvlro L qsmg
vqdk kdbnlvvgu vr vqg pghpgkgovsvlmgk ry vqg Kvsvgk sou ry vqg hgrhig
kdzq loyrpnsvlro ry rdp urngkvlz sou yrpgljo syyslpk sk vqg hdbilz
lovgpgkvk kggn vr pgcdlpg. Rdp Jrmgpongov lk orx dougpjrloj lvk nrkv
vpaloj rpugsi, sou na gspogkv hpsagp lk vqsv vqg hgpli nsa bg
kdzzgkkydiia sou ylosiia hskkgu xlvqrdv lnhslploj lvk rpljlosi kvpgojvq
sou kanngvpa. Vqg lovgpgkvk ry vqg osvlro spg bgkv vr bg hprnrvgu ba
vqg pgmlmsi ry ypsvgposi pgisvlrok, vqg zrnhigvg rbilvgpsvlro ry rdp
hskv ulyygpgozgk, sou vqg pglosdjdpsvlro ry sii vqg hdpkdlvk ry hgszg.
Ulpgzvloj rdp gyyrpvk vr vqg gspia szzrnhilkqngov ry vqgkg jpgsv gouk,
igv dk gougsmrp vr hpgkgpmg qspnroa bgvxggo vqg zrrpulosvg ughspvngovk
ry vqg Jrmgpongov, vqsv gszq lo lvk hprhgp khqgpg nsa zrpulsiia
zrrhgpsvg xlvq vqg rvqgp lo kgzdploj vqg nslovgosozg ry vqg
Zrokvlvdvlro, vqg hpgkgpmsvlro ry vqg Dolro, sou vqg hgphgvdlva ry rdp
ypgg lokvlvdvlrok.