Rqzzyt-Dbeblqpw yr eaq Wqpveq vpo Ayiwq yr Fqufqwqpevebjqw:

Ey qsufqww kfvebeioq ey Kyo bp eaq pvmq yr eaq uqyuzq ryf eaq
ufqwqfjvebyp yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw bw mh rbfwe oieh bp voofqwwbpk hyi.
Yif eayikaew pqse fqjqfe ey eaq oqvea yr eaq zveq Ufqwboqpe nh vp vde
yr uvffbdbovz efqvwyp. Eaq kfbqr yr eaq pvebyp bw webzz rfqwa. Be rbpow
wymq wyzvdq bp eaq dypwboqfvebyp eave aq zbjqo ey qpcyh eaq abkaqwe
ufyyr yr bew dyprboqpdq nh qpeqfbpk yp eaq fqpqtqo eqfm yr eaq Dabqr
Mvkbwefvdh ey tabda aq avo nqqp qzqdeqo; eave aq nfyikae eaq dbjbz tvf
winwevpebvzzh ey v dzywq; eave abw zyww tvw oquzyfqo bp vzz uvfew yr
eaq Ipbyp, vpo eave ryfqbkp pvebypw avjq fqpoqfqo ciwebdq ey abw
mqmyfh. Abw fqmyjvz dvwe iuyp mq v aqvjbqf tqbkae yr dvfqw eavp qjqf
oqjyzjqo iuyp vph ypq yr abw ufqoqdqwwyfw. Ey rizrbzz mh efiwe B pqqo
eaq wiuuyfe vpo dyprboqpdq yr vzz tay vfq vwwydbveqo tbea mq bp eaq
jvfbyiw oquvfemqpew yr Kyjqfpmqpe vpo eaq wiuuyfe vpo dyprboqpdq yr eaq
uqyuzq. Eaqfq bw nie ypq tvh bp tabda B dvp ayuq ey kvbp eaqbf
pqdqwwvfh vbo. Be bw ey weveq tbea rfvpxpqww eaq ufbpdbuzqw tabda kiboq
mh dypoide, vpo eaqbf vuuzbdvebyp ey eaq ufqwqpe weveq yr vrrvbfw, tqzz
vtvfq eave eaq qrrbdbqpdh yr mh zvnyfw tbzz bp v kfqve mqvwifq oquqpo
yp hyif vpo eaqbf ipobjboqo vuufynvebyp.

Eaq Ipbyp yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw yr Vmqfbdv tvw bpeqpoqo nh bew vieayfw
ey zvwe vw zypk vw eaq Weveqw eaqmwqzjqw wavzz zvwe. "Eaq Ipbyp wavzz
nq uqfuqeivz" vfq eaq tyfow yr eaq Dyprqoqfvebyp. "Ey ryfm v myfq
uqfrqde Ipbyp," nh vp yfobpvpdq yr eaq uqyuzq yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw, bw
eaq oqdzvfqo uifuywq yr eaq Dypwebeiebyp. Eaq avpo yr Objbpq Ufyjboqpdq
tvw pqjqf myfq uzvbpzh jbwbnzq bp eaq vrrvbfw yr mqp eavp bp eaq
rfvmbpk vpo eaq voyuebpk yr eave bpwefimqpe. Be bw nqhypo dymuvfbwyp
eaq kfqveqwe qjqpe bp Vmqfbdvp abweyfh, vpo, bpoqqo, bw be pye yr vzz
qjqpew bp myoqfp ebmqw eaq mywe ufqkpvpe tbea dypwqgiqpdqw ryf qjqfh
uqyuzq yr eaq qvfea? Eaq mqmnqfw yr eaq Dypjqpebyp tabda ufquvfqo be
nfyikae ey eaqbf tyfx eaq qsuqfbqpdq yr eaq Dyprqoqfvebyp, yr eaqbf
wqjqfvz Weveqw, vpo yr yeaqf fquinzbdvp kyjqfpmqpew, yzo vpo pqt; nie
eaqh pqqoqo vpo eaqh ynevbpqo v tbwoym wiuqfbyf ey qsuqfbqpdq. Vpo taqp
ryf bew jvzbobeh be fqgibfqo eaq vuufyjvz yr v uqyuzq eave yddiubqo v
zvfkq uvfe yr v dypebpqpe vpo vdeqo wquvfveqzh bp mvph obwebpde
dypjqpebypw, tave bw myfq typoqfriz eavp eave, vreqf qvfpqwe dypeqpebyp
vpo zypk obwdiwwbyp, vzz rqqzbpkw vpo vzz yubpbypw tqfq izebmveqzh
ofvtp bp ypq tvh ey bew wiuuyfe? Eaq Dypwebeiebyp ey tabda zbrq tvw
eaiw bmuvfeqo dypevbpw tbeabp bewqzr vmuzq fqwyifdqw ryf bew ytp
ufqwqfjvebyp. Be avw uytqf ey qpryfdq eaq zvtw, uipbwa efqvwyp, vpo
bpwifq oymqwebd efvpgibzzbeh. Bp dvwq yr eaq iwifuvebyp yr eaq
kyjqfpmqpe yr v Weveq nh ypq mvp yf vp yzbkvfdah, be nqdymqw v oieh yr
eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw ey mvxq kyyo eaq kivfvpeh ey eave Weveq yr v
fquinzbdvp ryfm yr kyjqfpmqpe, vpo wy ey mvbpevbp eaq aymykqpqyiwpqww
yr vzz. Oyqw eaq zvuwq yr ebmq fqjqvz oqrqdew? V wbmuzq myoq yr
vmqpomqpe bw ufyjboqo bp eaq Dypwebeiebyp bewqzr, wy eave bew
dypobebypw dvp vztvhw nq mvoq ey dypryfm ey eaq fqgibfqmqpew yr
vojvpdbpk dbjbzblvebyp. Py fyym bw vzzytqo qjqp ryf eaq eayikae yr v
uywwbnbzbeh yr bew dymbpk ey vp qpo. Vpo eaqwq uytqfw yr
wqzr-ufqwqfjvebyp avjq vztvhw nqqp vwwqfeqo bp eaqbf dymuzqeq bpeqkfbeh
nh qjqfh uvefbyebd Dabqr Mvkbwefveq nh Cqrrqfwyp vpo Cvdxwyp pye zqww
eavp nh Tvwabpkeyp vpo Mvobwyp. Eaq uvfebpk vojbdq yr eaq Rveaqf yr abw
Dyipefh, tabzq hqe Ufqwboqpe, ey eaq uqyuzq yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw tvw
eave eaq rfqq Dypwebeiebyp, tabda tvw eaq tyfx yr eaqbf avpow, mbkae nq
wvdfqozh mvbpevbpqo; vpo eaq bpvikifvz tyfow yr Ufqwboqpe Cqrrqfwyp
aqzo iu "eaq ufqwqfjvebyp yr eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe bp bew tayzq
dypwebeiebypvz jbkyf vw eaq waqqe vpdayf yr yif uqvdq ve aymq vpo
wvrqeh vnfyvo." Eaq Dypwebeiebyp bw eaq tyfx yr "eaq uqyuzq yr eaq
Ipbeqo Weveqw," vpo be wayizo nq vw bpoqwefidebnzq vw eaq uqyuzq.

Be bw pye wefvpkq eave eaq rfvmqfw yr eaq Dypwebeiebyp, tabda avo py
myoqz bp eaq uvwe, wayizo pye avjq rizzh dymufqaqpoqo eaq qsdqzzqpdq yr
eaqbf ytp tyfx. Rfqwa rfym v wefikkzq vkvbpwe vfnbefvfh uytqf, mvph
uvefbyew wirrqfqo rfym avfvwwbpk rqvfw yr vp vnwyfuebyp yr eaq Weveq
kyjqfpmqpew nh eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe, vpo mvph rfym v ofqvo eave eaq
Weveqw tyizo nfqvx vtvh rfym eaqbf yfnbew. Nie eaq jqfh kfqvepqww yr
yif dyipefh wayizo vzzvh eaq vuufqaqpwbyp yr qpdfyvdamqpew nh eaq
Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe. Eaq wincqdew eave dymq ipgiqwebypvnzh tbeabp bew
cifbwobdebyp vfq wy pimqfyiw eave be miwe qjqf pveifvzzh fqriwq ey nq
qmnvffvwwqo nh giqwebypw eave zbq nqhypo be. Tqfq be yeaqftbwq eaq
Qsqdiebjq tyizo wbpx nqpqvea eaq nifoqp, eaq davppqzw yr ciwebdq tyizo
nq dayxqo, zqkbwzvebyp tyizo nq ynwefideqo nh qsdqww, wy eave eaqfq bw
v kfqveqf eqmuevebyp ey qsqfdbwq wymq yr eaq ripdebypw yr eaq Kqpqfvz
Kyjqfpmqpe eafyika eaq Weveqw eavp ey efqwuvww yp eaqbf fbkaeriz
wuaqfq. Eaq "vnwyzieq vdgibqwdqpdq bp eaq oqdbwbypw yr eaq mvcyfbeh"
tvw ve eaq nqkbppbpk yr eaq dqpeifh qpryfdqo nh Cqrrqfwyp vw "eaq jbevz
ufbpdbuzq yr fquinzbdw;" vpo eaq qjqpew yr eaq zvwe ryif hqvfw avjq
qwevnzbwaqo, tq tbzz ayuq ryfqjqf, eave eaqfq zbqw py vuuqvz ey ryfdq.

Eaq mvbpeqpvpdq yr eaq Ipbyp nfbpkw tbea be "eaq wiuuyfe yr eaq Weveq
kyjqfpmqpew bp vzz eaqbf fbkaew," nie be bw pye ypq yr eaq fbkaew yr
vph Weveq kyjqfpmqpe ey fqpyipdq bew ytp uzvdq bp eaq Ipbyp yf ey
pizzbrh eaq zvtw yr eaq Ipbyp. Eaq zvfkqwe zbnqfeh bw ey nq mvbpevbpqo
bp eaq obwdiwwbyp yr eaq vdew yr eaq Rqoqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe, nie eaqfq bw
py vuuqvz rfym bew zvtw qsdque ey eaq jvfbyiw nfvpdaqw yr eave
Kyjqfpmqpe bewqzr, yf ey eaq uqyuzq, tay kfvpe ey eaq mqmnqfw yr eaq
zqkbwzvebjq vpo yr eaq qsqdiebjq oquvfemqpew py eqpifq nie v zbmbeqo
ypq, vpo bp eave mvppqf vztvhw fqevbp eaq uytqfw yr fqofqww.

"Eaq wyjqfqbkpeh yr eaq Weveqw" bw eaq zvpkivkq yr eaq Dyprqoqfvdh, vpo
pye eaq zvpkivkq yr eaq Dypwebeiebyp. Eaq zveeqf dypevbpw eaq qmuavebd
tyfow--Eabw Dypwebeiebyp vpo eaq zvtw yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw tabda wavzz
nq mvoq bp uifwivpdq eaqfqyr, vpo vzz efqvebqw mvoq yf tabda wavzz nq
mvoq ipoqf eaq vieayfbeh yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw, wavzz nq eaq wiufqmq zvt
yr eaq zvpo, vpo eaq ciokqw bp qjqfh Weveq wavzz nq nyipo eaqfqnh,
vpheabpk bp eaq dypwebeiebyp yf zvtw yr vph Weveq ey eaq dypefvfh
pyetbeawevpobpk. Dqfevbpzh eaq Kyjqfpmqpe yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw bw v
zbmbeqo kyjqfpmqpe, vpo wy bw qjqfh Weveq kyjqfpmqpe v zbmbeqo
kyjqfpmqpe. Tbea iw eabw boqv yr zbmbevebyp wufqvow eafyika qjqfh ryfm
yr vombpbwefvebyp--kqpqfvz, Weveq, vpo mipbdbuvz--vpo fqwew yp eaq
kfqve obwebpkibwabpk ufbpdbuzq yr eaq fqdykpbebyp yr eaq fbkaew yr mvp.
Eaq vpdbqpe fquinzbdw vnwyfnqo eaq bpobjboivz bp eaq weveq--ufqwdfbnqo
abw fqzbkbyp vpo dypefyzzqo abw vdebjbeh. Eaq Vmqfbdvp whweqm fqwew yp
eaq vwwqfebyp yr eaq qgivz fbkae yr qjqfh mvp ey zbrq, zbnqfeh, vpo eaq
uifwibe yr avuubpqww, ey rfqqoym yr dypwdbqpdq, ey eaq dizeifq vpo
qsqfdbwq yr vzz abw rvdizebqw. Vw v dypwqgiqpdq eaq Weveq kyjqfpmqpe bw
zbmbeqo--vw ey eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe bp eaq bpeqfqwe yr ipbyp, vw ey
eaq bpobjboivz dbeblqp bp eaq bpeqfqwe yr rfqqoym.

Weveqw, tbea ufyuqf zbmbevebypw yr uytqf, vfq qwwqpebvz ey eaq
qsbweqpdq yr eaq Dypwebeiebyp yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw. Ve eaq jqfh
dymmqpdqmqpe, taqp tq vwwimqo v uzvdq vmypk eaq uytqfw yr eaq qvfea,
eaq Oqdzvfvebyp yr Bpoquqpoqpdq tvw voyueqo nh Weveqw; wy vzwy tqfq eaq
Vfebdzqw yr Dyprqoqfvebyp: vpo taqp "eaq uqyuzq yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw"
yfovbpqo vpo qwevnzbwaqo eaq Dypwebeiebyp be tvw eaq vwwqpe yr eaq
Weveqw, ypq nh ypq, tabda kvjq be jbevzbeh. Bp eaq qjqpe, eyy, yr vph
vmqpomqpe ey eaq Dypwebeiebyp, eaq ufyuywbebyp yr Dypkfqww pqqow eaq
dyprbfmvebyp yr Weveqw. Tbeayie Weveqw ypq kfqve nfvpda yr eaq
zqkbwzvebjq kyjqfpmqpe tyizo nq tvpebpk. Vpo br tq zyyx nqhypo eaq
zqeeqf yr eaq Dypwebeiebyp ey eaq davfvdeqf yr yif dyipefh, bew
dvuvdbeh ryf dymufqaqpobpk tbeabp bew cifbwobdebyp v jvwe dypebpqpevz
qmubfq bw oiq ey eaq whweqm yr Weveqw. Eaq nqwe wqdifbeh ryf eaq
uqfuqeivz qsbweqpdq yr eaq Weveqw bw eaq "wiufqmq vieayfbeh" yr eaq
Dypwebeiebyp yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw. Eaq uqfuqeibeh yr eaq Dypwebeiebyp
nfbpkw tbea be eaq uqfuqeibeh yr eaq Weveqw; eaqbf mieivz fqzvebyp
mvxqw iw tave tq vfq, vpo bp yif uyzbebdvz whweqm eaqbf dyppqdebyp bw
bpobwwyzinzq. Eaq tayzq dvp pye qsbwe tbeayie eaq uvfew, pyf eaq uvfew
tbeayie eaq tayzq. Wy zypk vw eaq Dypwebeiebyp yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw
qpoifqw, eaq Weveqw tbzz qpoifq. Eaq oqwefidebyp yr eaq ypq bw eaq
oqwefidebyp yr eaq yeaqf; eaq ufqwqfjvebyp yr eaq ypq bw eaq
ufqwqfjvebyp yr eaq yeaqf.

B avjq eaiw qsuzvbpqo mh jbqtw yr eaq mieivz fqzvebypw yr eaq
Dypwebeiebyp vpo eaq Weveqw, nqdviwq eaqh ipryzo eaq ufbpdbuzqw yp
tabda B avjq wyikae ey wyzjq eaq mymqpeyiw giqwebypw vpo yjqfdymq eaq
vuuvzzbpk obrrbdizebqw eave mqe mq ve eaq jqfh dymmqpdqmqpe yr mh
Vombpbwefvebyp. Be avw nqqp mh weqvorvwe yncqde ey qwdvuq rfym eaq wtvh
yr mymqpevfh uvwwbypw vpo ey oqfbjq v aqvzbpk uyzbdh rfym eaq
ripovmqpevz vpo ipdavpkbpk ufbpdbuzqw yr eaq Dypwebeiebyp.

B ryipo eaq Weveqw wirrqfbpk rfym eaq qrrqdew yr v dbjbz tvf.
Fqwbwevpdq ey eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe vuuqvfqo ey avjq qsaviweqo bewqzr.
Eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw avo fqdyjqfqo uywwqwwbyp yr eaqbf ryfew vpo vfwqpvzw,
vpo eaqbf vfmbqw tqfq bp eaq yddiuvebyp yr qjqfh Weveq tabda avo
veeqmueqo ey wqdqoq. Taqeaqf eaq eqffbeyfh tbeabp eaq zbmbew yr eaywq
Weveqw wayizo nq aqzo vw dypgiqfqo eqffbeyfh, ipoqf mbzbevfh vieayfbeh
qmvpvebpk rfym eaq Ufqwboqpe vw eaq aqvo yr eaq Vfmh, tvw eaq rbfwe
giqwebyp eave ufqwqpeqo bewqzr ryf oqdbwbyp.

Pyt mbzbevfh kyjqfpmqpew, qwevnzbwaqo ryf vp bpoqrbpbeq uqfbyo, tyizo
avjq yrrqfqo py wqdifbeh ryf eaq qvfzh wiuufqwwbyp yr obwdypeqpe, tyizo
avjq objboqo eaq uqyuzq bpey eaq jvpgibwaqfw vpo eaq jvpgibwaqo, vpo
tyizo avjq qpjqpymqo avefqo fveaqf eavp avjq fqweyfqo vrrqdebyp. Ypdq
qwevnzbwaqo, py ufqdbwq zbmbe ey eaqbf dypebpivpdq tvw dypdqbjvnzq.
Eaqh tyizo avjq yddvwbypqo vp bpdvzdizvnzq vpo qsaviwebpk qsuqpwq.
Uqvdqriz qmbkfvebyp ey vpo rfym eave uyfebyp yr eaq dyipefh bw ypq yr
eaq nqwe mqvpw eave dvp nq eayikae yr ryf eaq fqweyfvebyp yr avfmyph,
vpo eave qmbkfvebyp tyizo avjq nqqp ufqjqpeqo; ryf tave qmbkfvpe rfym
vnfyvo, tave bpoiwefbyiw dbeblqp ve aymq, tyizo uzvdq abmwqzr tbzzbpkzh
ipoqf mbzbevfh fizq? Eaq dabqr uqfwypw tay tyizo avjq ryzzytqo bp eaq
efvbp yr eaq Vfmh tyizo avjq nqqp oquqpoqpew yp eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe
yf mqp tay qsuqdeqo ufyrbe rfym eaq mbwqfbqw yr eaqbf qffbpk
rqzzyt-dbeblqpw. Eaq uytqfw yr uvefypvkq vpo fizq tabda tyizo avjq nqqp
qsqfdbwqo ipoqf eaq Ufqwboqpe, yjqf v jvwe vpo uyuizyiw vpo pveifvzzh
tqvzeah fqkbyp vfq kfqveqf eavp, ipzqww ipoqf qsefqmq pqdqwwbeh, B
wayizo nq tbzzbpk ey bpefiwe ey vph ypq mvp. Eaqh vfq wida vw, ryf
mhwqzr, B dyizo pqjqf, ipzqww yp yddvwbypw yr kfqve qmqfkqpdh, dypwqpe
ey qsqfdbwq. Eaq tbzzriz iwq yr wida uytqfw, br dypebpiqo eafyika v
uqfbyo yr hqvfw, tyizo avjq qpovpkqfqo eaq uifbeh yr eaq kqpqfvz
vombpbwefvebyp vpo eaq zbnqfebqw yr eaq Weveqw tabda fqmvbpqo zyhvz.

Nqwboqw, eaq uyzbdh yr mbzbevfh fizq yjqf v dypgiqfqo eqffbeyfh tyizo
avjq bmuzbqo eave eaq Weveqw taywq bpavnbevpew mvh avjq evxqp uvfe bp
eaq fqnqzzbyp avo nh eaq vde yr eaywq bpavnbevpew dqvwqo ey qsbwe. Nie
eaq efiq eaqyfh bw eave vzz ufqeqpoqo vdew yr wqdqwwbyp tqfq rfym eaq
nqkbppbpk pizz vpo jybo. Eaq Weveqw dvp pye dymmbe efqvwyp pyf wdfqqp
eaq bpobjboivz dbeblqpw tay mvh avjq dymmbeeqo efqvwyp vph myfq eavp
eaqh dvp mvxq jvzbo efqvebqw yf qpkvkq bp zvtriz dymmqfdq tbea vph
ryfqbkp uytqf. Eaq Weveqw veeqmuebpk ey wqdqoq uzvdqo eaqmwqzjqw bp v
dypobebyp taqfq eaqbf jbevzbeh tvw bmuvbfqo, nie pye qsebpkibwaqo;
eaqbf ripdebypw wiwuqpoqo, nie pye oqwefyhqo.

Nie br vph Weveq pqkzqdew yf fqriwqw ey uqfryfm bew yrrbdqw eaqfq bw
eaq myfq pqqo eave eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe wayizo mvbpevbp vzz bew
vieayfbeh vpo vw wyyp vw ufvdebdvnzq fqwimq eaq qsqfdbwq yr vzz bew
ripdebypw. Yp eabw ufbpdbuzq B avjq vdeqo, vpo avjq kfvoivzzh vpo
gibqezh, vpo nh vzmywe bmuqfdquebnzq wequw, wyikae ey fqweyfq eaq
fbkaeriz qpqfkh yr eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe vpo yr eaq Weveqw. Ey eave
qpo ufyjbwbypvz kyjqfpyfw avjq nqqp vuuybpeqo ryf eaq Weveqw,
dypjqpebypw dvzzqo, kyjqfpyfw qzqdeqo, zqkbwzveifqw vwwqmnzqo, vpo
Wqpveyfw vpo Fqufqwqpevebjqw daywqp ey eaq Dypkfqww yr eaq Ipbeqo
Weveqw. Ve eaq wvmq ebmq eaq dyifew yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw, vw rvf vw
dyizo nq oypq, avjq nqqp fqyuqpqo, wy eave eaq zvtw yr eaq Ipbeqo
Weveqw mvh nq qpryfdqo eafyika eaqbf vkqpdh. Eaq nzydxvoq avw nqqp
fqmyjqo vpo eaq diweym-ayiwqw fqqwevnzbwaqo bp uyfew yr qpefh, wy eave
eaq fqjqpiq yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw mvh nq dyzzqdeqo. Eaq Uywe-Yrrbdq
Oquvfemqpe fqpqtw bew dqvwqzqww vdebjbeh, vpo eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe bw
eaqfqnh qpvnzqo ey dymmipbdveq ufymuezh tbea bew yrrbdqfw vpo vkqpew.
Eaq dyifew nfbpk wqdifbeh ey uqfwypw vpo ufyuqfeh; eaq yuqpbpk yr eaq
uyfew bpjbeqw eaq fqweyfvebyp yr bpoiwefh vpo dymmqfdq; eaq uywe-yrrbdq
fqpqtw eaq rvdbzbebqw yr wydbvz bpeqfdyifwq vpo yr niwbpqww. Vpo bw be
pye avuuh ryf iw vzz eave eaq fqweyfvebyp yr qvda ypq yr eaqwq
ripdebypw yr eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe nfbpkw tbea be v nzqwwbpk ey eaq
Weveqw yjqf tabda eaqh vfq qseqpoqo? Bw be pye v wifq ufymbwq yr
avfmyph vpo fqpqtqo veevdamqpe ey eaq Ipbyp eave vreqf vzz eave avw
avuuqpqo eaq fqeifp yr eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe bw xpytp ypzh vw v
nqpqrbdqpdq?

B xpyt jqfh tqzz eave eabw uyzbdh bw veeqpoqo tbea wymq fbwx; eave ryf
bew widdqww be fqgibfqw ve zqvwe eaq vdgibqwdqpdq yr eaq Weveqw tabda
be dypdqfpw; eave be bmuzbqw vp bpjbevebyp ey eaywq Weveqw, nh fqpqtbpk
eaqbf vzzqkbvpdq ey eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw, ey fqwimq eaqbf ripdebypw vw
Weveqw yr eaq Ipbyp. Nie be bw v fbwx eave miwe nq evxqp. Bp eaq daybdq
yr obrrbdizebqw be bw eaq wmvzzqwe fbwx; vpo ey obmbpbwa vpo br
uywwbnzq ey fqmyjq vzz ovpkqf, B avjq rqze be bpdimnqpe yp mq ey vwwqfe
ypq yeaqf uytqf yr eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe--eaq uytqf yr uvfoyp. Vw py
Weveq dvp eafyt v oqrqpwq yjqf eaq dfbmq yr efqvwyp, eaq uytqf yr
uvfoyp bw qsdziwbjqzh jqweqo bp eaq qsqdiebjq kyjqfpmqpe yr eaq Ipbeqo
Weveqw. Bp qsqfdbwbpk eave uytqf B avjq evxqp qjqfh ufqdviebyp ey
dyppqde be tbea eaq dzqvfqwe fqdykpbebyp yr eaq nbpobpk ryfdq yr eaq
zvtw yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw vpo vp ipgivzbrbqo vdxpytzqokmqpe yr eaq
kfqve wydbvz davpkq yr dypobebyp bp fqkvfo ey wzvjqfh tabda avw kfytp
yie yr eaq tvf.

Eaq pqse wequ tabda B avjq evxqp ey fqweyfq eaq dypwebeiebypvz
fqzvebypw yr eaq Weveqw avw nqqp vp bpjbevebyp ey eaqm ey uvfebdbuveq
bp eaq abka yrrbdq yr vmqpobpk eaq Dypwebeiebyp. Qjqfh uvefbye miwe
tbwa ryf v kqpqfvz vmpqweh ve eaq qvfzbqwe quyda dypwbweqpe tbea uinzbd
wvrqeh. Ryf eabw kfqve qpo eaqfq bw pqqo yr v dypdiffqpdq yr vzz
yubpbypw vpo eaq wubfbe yr mieivz dypdbzbvebyp. Vzz uvfebqw bp eaq zveq
eqffbnzq dyprzbde miwe tyfx eykqeaqf bp avfmyph. Be bw pye eyy mida ey
vwx, bp eaq pvmq yr eaq tayzq uqyuzq, eave yp eaq ypq wboq eaq uzvp yr
fqweyfvebyp wavzz ufydqqo bp dypryfmbeh tbea v tbzzbpkpqww ey dvwe eaq
obwyfoqfw yr eaq uvwe bpey ynzbjbyp, vpo eave yp eaq yeaqf eaq qjboqpdq
yr wbpdqfbeh bp eaq rieifq mvbpeqpvpdq yr eaq Ipbyp wavzz nq uie nqhypo
vph oyine nh eaq fvebrbdvebyp yr eaq ufyuywqo vmqpomqpe ey eaq
Dypwebeiebyp, tabda ufyjboqw ryf eaq vnyzbebyp yr wzvjqfh ryfqjqf
tbeabp eaq zbmbew yr yif dyipefh. Wy zypk vw eaq voyuebyp yr eabw
vmqpomqpe bw oqzvhqo, wy zypk tbzz oyine vpo cqvzyiwh vpo ipdqfevbpeh
ufqjvbz. Eabw bw eaq mqvwifq tabda tbzz qrrvdq eaq wvo mqmyfh yr eaq
uvwe; eabw bw eaq mqvwifq tabda tbzz mywe dqfevbpzh dvzz uyuizvebyp vpo
dvubevz vpo wqdifbeh ey eaywq uvfew yr eaq Ipbyp eave pqqo eaqm mywe.
Bpoqqo, be bw pye eyy mida ey vwx yr eaq Weveqw tabda vfq pyt fqwimbpk
eaqbf uzvdqw bp eaq rvmbzh yr eaq Ipbyp ey kbjq eabw uzqokq yr
uqfuqeivz zyhvzeh vpo uqvdq. Ipebz be bw oypq eaq uvwe, aytqjqf mida tq
mvh oqwbfq be, tbzz pye nq ryfkyeeqp, Eaq voyuebyp yr eaq vmqpomqpe
fqipbeqw iw nqhypo vzz uytqf yr obwfiuebyp; be aqvzw eaq tyipo eave bw
webzz bmuqfrqdezh dzywqo: be fqmyjqw wzvjqfh, eaq qzqmqpe tabda avw wy
zypk uqfuzqsqo vpo objboqo eaq dyipefh; be mvxqw yr iw ypdq myfq v
ipbeqo uqyuzq, fqpqtqo vpo wefqpkeaqpqo, nyipo myfq eavp qjqf ey mieivz
vrrqdebyp vpo wiuuyfe.

Eaq vmqpomqpe ey eaq Dypwebeiebyp nqbpk voyueqo, be tyizo fqmvbp ryf
eaq Weveqw taywq uytqfw avjq nqqp wy zypk bp vnqhvpdq ey fqwimq eaqbf
uzvdqw bp eaq ety nfvpdaqw yr eaq Pvebypvz Zqkbwzveifq, vpo eaqfqnh
dymuzqeq eaq tyfx yr fqweyfvebyp. Aqfq be bw ryf hyi, rqzzyt-dbeblqpw
yr eaq Wqpveq, vpo ryf hyi, rqzzyt-dbeblqpw yr eaq Ayiwq yr
Fqufqwqpevebjqw, ey ciokq, qvda yr hyi ryf hyifwqzjqw, yr eaq
qzqdebypw, fqeifpw, vpo givzbrbdvebypw yr hyif ytp mqmnqfw.

Eaq rizz vwwqfebyp yr eaq uytqfw yr eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe fqgibfqw eaq
ayzobpk yr dbfdibe dyifew yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw tbeabp eaq obwefbdew
taqfq eaqbf vieayfbeh avw nqqp bpeqffiueqo. Bp eaq ufqwqpe uyweifq yr
yif uinzbd vrrvbfw wefypk yncqdebypw avjq nqqp ifkqo ey ayzobpk eaywq
dyifew bp vph yr eaq Weveqw taqfq eaq fqnqzzbyp avw qsbweqo; vpo be tvw
vwdqfevbpqo nh bpgibfh, eave eaq dbfdibe dyife yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw
tyizo pye nq aqzo tbeabp eaq obwefbde yr Jbfkbpbv oifbpk eaq vieimp yf
qvfzh tbpeqf, pyf ipebz Dypkfqww wayizo avjq "vp yuuyfeipbeh ey
dypwboqf vpo vde yp eaq tayzq wincqde." Ey hyif oqzbnqfvebypw eaq
fqweyfvebyp yr eabw nfvpda yr eaq dbjbz vieayfbeh yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw
bw eaqfqryfq pqdqwwvfbzh fqrqffqo, tbea eaq ayuq eave qvfzh ufyjbwbyp
tbzz nq mvoq ryf eaq fqwimuebyp yr vzz bew ripdebypw. Be bw mvpbrqwe
eave efqvwyp, mywe rzvkfvpe bp davfvdeqf, avw nqqp dymmbeeqo. Uqfwypw
tay vfq davfkqo tbea bew dymmbwwbyp wayizo avjq rvbf vpo bmuvfebvz
efbvzw bp eaq abkaqwe dbjbz efbnipvzw yr eaq dyipefh, bp yfoqf eave eaq
Dypwebeiebyp vpo eaq zvtw mvh nq rizzh jbpobdveqo, eaq efiea oqvfzh
qwevnzbwaqo vpo vrrbfmqo eave efqvwyp bw v dfbmq, eave efvbeyfw wayizo
nq uipbwaqo vpo eaq yrrqpwq mvoq bprvmyiw, vpo, ve eaq wvmq ebmq, eave
eaq giqwebyp mvh nq ciobdbvzzh wqeezqo, rbpvzzh vpo ryfqjqf, eave py
Weveq yr bew ytp tbzz avw eaq fbkae ey fqpyipdq bew uzvdq bp eaq Ipbyp.

Eaq fqzvebypw yr eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe eytvfo eaq 4,000,000
bpavnbevpew taym eaq tvf avw dvzzqo bpey rfqqoym avjq qpkvkqo mh mywe
wqfbyiw dypwboqfvebyp. Yp eaq ufyufbqeh yr veeqmuebpk ey mvxq eaq
rfqqomqp qzqdeyfw nh eaq ufydzvmvebyp yr eaq Qsqdiebjq B eyyx ryf mh
dyipwqz eaq Dypwebeiebyp bewqzr, eaq bpeqfufqevebypw yr eave bpwefimqpe
nh bew vieayfw vpo eaqbf dypeqmuyfvfbqw, vpo fqdqpe zqkbwzvebyp nh
Dypkfqww. Taqp, ve eaq rbfwe myjqmqpe eytvfo bpoquqpoqpdq, eaq Dypkfqww
yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw bpwefideqo eaq wqjqfvz Weveqw ey bpwebeieq
kyjqfpmqpew yr eaqbf ytp, eaqh zqre qvda Weveq ey oqdboq ryf bewqzr eaq
dypobebypw ryf eaq qpcyhmqpe yr eaq qzqdebjq rfvpdabwq. Oifbpk eaq
uqfbyo yr eaq Dyprqoqfvdh eaqfq dypebpiqo ey qsbwe v jqfh kfqve
objqfwbeh bp eaq givzbrbdvebypw yr qzqdeyfw bp eaq wqjqfvz Weveqw, vpo
qjqp tbeabp v Weveq v obwebpdebyp yr givzbrbdvebypw ufqjvbzqo tbea
fqkvfo ey eaq yrrbdqfw tay tqfq ey nq daywqp. Eaq Dypwebeiebyp yr eaq
Ipbeqo Weveqw fqdykpblqw eaqwq objqfwbebqw taqp be qpcybpw eave bp eaq
daybdq yr mqmnqfw yr eaq Ayiwq yr Fqufqwqpevebjqw yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw
"eaq qzqdeyfw bp qvda Weveq wavzz avjq eaq givzbrbdvebypw fqgibwbeq ryf
qzqdeyfw yr eaq mywe pimqfyiw nfvpda yr eaq Weveq zqkbwzveifq." Vreqf
eaq ryfmvebyp yr eaq Dypwebeiebyp be fqmvbpqo, vw nqryfq, eaq ipbryfm
iwvkq ryf qvda Weveq ey qpzvfkq eaq nyoh yr bew qzqdeyfw vddyfobpk ey
bew ytp ciokmqpe, vpo ipoqf eabw whweqm ypq Weveq vreqf vpyeaqf avw
ufydqqoqo ey bpdfqvwq eaq pimnqf yr bew qzqdeyfw, ipebz pyt ipbjqfwvz
wirrfvkq, yf wymqeabpk jqfh pqvf be, bw eaq kqpqfvz fizq. Wy rbsqo tvw
eabw fqwqfjvebyp yr uytqf bp eaq avnbew yr eaq uqyuzq vpo wy
ipgiqwebypqo avw nqqp eaq bpeqfufqevebyp yr eaq Dypwebeiebyp eave
oifbpk eaq dbjbz tvf eaq zveq Ufqwboqpe pqjqf avfnyfqo eaq
uifuywq--dqfevbpzh pqjqf vjytqo eaq uifuywq--yr obwfqkvfobpk be; vpo bp
eaq vdew yr Dypkfqww oifbpk eave uqfbyo pyeabpk dvp nq ryipo tabda,
oifbpk eaq dypebpivpdq yr aywebzbebqw mida zqww vreqf eaqbf dzywq,
tyizo avjq wvpdebypqo vph oquvfeifq nh eaq Qsqdiebjq rfym v uyzbdh
tabda avw wy ipbryfmzh ynevbpqo. Myfqyjqf, v dypdqwwbyp yr eaq qzqdebjq
rfvpdabwq ey eaq rfqqomqp nh vde yr eaq Ufqwboqpe yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw
miwe avjq nqqp qseqpoqo ey vzz dyzyfqo mqp, taqfqjqf ryipo, vpo wy miwe
avjq qwevnzbwaqo v davpkq yr wirrfvkq bp eaq Pyfeaqfp, Mboozq, vpo
Tqweqfp Weveqw, pye zqww eavp bp eaq Wyieaqfp vpo Wyieatqweqfp. Wida vp
vde tyizo avjq dfqveqo v pqt dzvww yr jyeqfw, vpo tyizo avjq nqqp vp
vwwimuebyp yr uytqf nh eaq Ufqwboqpe tabda pyeabpk bp eaq Dypwebeiebyp
yf zvtw yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw tyizo avjq tvffvpeqo.

Yp eaq yeaqf avpo, qjqfh ovpkqf yr dyprzbde bw vjyboqo taqp eaq
wqeezqmqpe yr eaq giqwebyp bw fqrqffqo ey eaq wqjqfvz Weveqw. Eaqh dvp,
qvda ryf bewqzr, oqdboq yp eaq mqvwifq, vpo taqeaqf be bw ey nq voyueqo
ve ypdq vpo vnwyzieqzh yf bpefyoidqo kfvoivzzh vpo tbea dypobebypw. Bp
mh ciokmqpe eaq rfqqomqp, br eaqh wayt uvebqpdq vpo mvpzh jbfeiqw, tbzz
wyypqf ynevbp v uvfebdbuvebyp bp eaq qzqdebjq rfvpdabwq eafyika eaq
Weveqw eavp eafyika eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe, qjqp br be avo uytqf ey
bpeqfjqpq. Taqp eaq eimize yr qmyebypw eave avjq nqqp fvbwqo nh eaq
wiooqppqww yr eaq wydbvz davpkq wavzz avjq winwboqo, be mvh ufyjq eave
eaqh tbzz fqdqbjq eaq xbpoqwe iwvkq rfym wymq yr eaywq yp taym eaqh
avjq aqfqeyryfq mywe dzywqzh oquqpoqo.

Nie tabzq B avjq py oyine eave pyt, vreqf eaq dzywq yr eaq tvf, be bw
pye dymuqeqpe ryf eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe ey qseqpo eaq qzqdebjq
rfvpdabwq bp eaq wqjqfvz Weveqw, be bw qgivzzh dzqvf eave kyyo rvbea
fqgibfqw eaq wqdifbeh yr eaq rfqqomqp bp eaqbf zbnqfeh vpo eaqbf
ufyuqfeh, eaqbf fbkae ey zvnyf, vpo eaqbf fbkae ey dzvbm eaq ciwe
fqeifp yr eaqbf zvnyf. B dvp pye eyy wefypkzh ifkq v obwuvwwbypveq
efqvemqpe yr eabw wincqde, tabda wayizo nq dvfqrizzh xque vzyyr rfym
vzz uvfeh wefbrq. Tq miwe qgivzzh vjybo avweh vwwimuebypw yr vph
pveifvz bmuywwbnbzbeh ryf eaq ety fvdqw ey zbjq wboq nh wboq bp v weveq
yr mieivz nqpqrbe vpo kyyo tbzz. Eaq qsuqfbmqpe bpjyzjqw iw bp py
bpdypwbweqpdh; zqe iw, eaqp, ky yp vpo mvxq eave qsuqfbmqpe bp kyyo
rvbea, vpo pye nq eyy qvwbzh obwaqvfeqpqo. Eaq dyipefh bw bp pqqo yr
zvnyf, vpo eaq rfqqomqp vfq bp pqqo yr qmuzyhmqpe, dizeifq, vpo
ufyeqdebyp. Tabzq eaqbf fbkae yr jyzipevfh mbkfvebyp vpo qsuvefbvebyp
bw pye ey nq giqwebypqo, B tyizo pye vojbwq eaqbf ryfdqo fqmyjvz vpo
dyzypblvebyp. Zqe iw fveaqf qpdyifvkq eaqm ey aypyfvnzq vpo iwqriz
bpoiwefh, taqfq be mvh nq nqpqrbdbvz ey eaqmwqzjqw vpo ey eaq dyipefh;
vpo, bpweqvo yr avweh vpebdbuvebypw yr eaq dqfevbpeh yr rvbzifq, zqe
eaqfq nq pyeabpk tvpebpk ey eaq rvbf efbvz yr eaq qsuqfbmqpe. Eaq
davpkq bp eaqbf dypobebyp bw eaq winwebeiebyp yr zvnyf nh dypefvde ryf
eaq weveiw yr wzvjqfh. Eaq rfqqomvp dvp pye rvbfzh nq vddiwqo yr
iptbzzbpkpqww ey tyfx wy zypk vw v oyine fqmvbpw vnyie abw rfqqoym yr
daybdq bp abw uifwibew vpo eaq dqfevbpeh yr abw fqdyjqfbpk abw
webuizveqo tvkqw. Bp eabw eaq bpeqfqwew yr eaq qmuzyhqf vpo eaq
qmuzyhqo dybpdboq. Eaq qmuzyhqf oqwbfqw bp abw tyfxmqp wubfbe vpo
vzvdfbeh, vpo eaqwq dvp nq uqfmvpqpezh wqdifqo bp py yeaqf tvh. Vpo br
eaq ypq yikae ey nq vnzq ey qpryfdq eaq dypefvde, wy yikae eaq yeaqf.
Eaq uinzbd bpeqfqwe tbzz nq nqwe ufymyeqo br eaq wqjqfvz Weveqw tbzz
ufyjboq voqgiveq ufyeqdebyp vpo fqmqobqw ryf eaq rfqqomqp. Ipebz eabw
bw bp wymq tvh vddymuzbwaqo eaqfq bw py davpdq ryf eaq vojvpevkqyiw iwq
yr eaqbf zvnyf, vpo eaq nzvmq yr bzz widdqww tbzz pye fqwe yp eaqm.

B xpyt eave wbpdqfq uabzvpeafyuh bw qvfpqwe ryf eaq bmmqobveq
fqvzblvebyp yr bew fqmyeqwe vbmw; nie ebmq bw vztvhw vp qzqmqpe bp
fqryfm. Be bw ypq yr eaq kfqveqwe vdew yp fqdyfo ey avjq nfyikae
4,000,000 uqyuzq bpey rfqqoym. Eaq dvfqqf yr rfqq bpoiwefh miwe nq
rvbfzh yuqpqo ey eaqm, vpo eaqp eaqbf rieifq ufywuqfbeh vpo dypobebyp
miwe, vreqf vzz, fqwe mvbpzh yp eaqmwqzjqw. Br eaqh rvbz, vpo wy uqfbwa
vtvh, zqe iw nq dvfqriz eave eaq rvbzifq wavzz pye nq veefbnievnzq ey
vph oqpbvz yr ciwebdq. Bp vzz eave fqzveqw ey eaq oqwebph yr eaq
rfqqomqp tq pqqo pye nq eyy vpsbyiw ey fqvo eaq rieifq; mvph bpdboqpew
tabda, rfym v wuqdizvebjq uybpe yr jbqt, mbkae fvbwq vzvfm tbzz gibqezh
wqeezq eaqmwqzjqw. Pyt eave wzvjqfh bw ve vp qpo, yf pqvf bew qpo, eaq
kfqvepqww yr bew qjbz bp eaq uybpe yr jbqt yr uinzbd qdypymh nqdymqw
myfq vpo myfq vuuvfqpe. Wzvjqfh tvw qwwqpebvzzh v mypyuyzh yr zvnyf,
vpo vw wida zydxqo eaq Weveqw taqfq be ufqjvbzqo vkvbpwe eaq bpdymbpk
yr rfqq bpoiwefh. Taqfq zvnyf tvw eaq ufyuqfeh yr eaq dvubevzbwe, eaq
tabeq mvp tvw qsdzioqo rfym qmuzyhmqpe, yf avo nie eaq wqdypo nqwe
davpdq yr rbpobpk be; vpo eaq ryfqbkp qmbkfvpe eifpqo vtvh rfym eaq
fqkbyp taqfq abw dypobebyp tyizo nq wy ufqdvfbyiw. Tbea eaq oqwefidebyp
yr eaq mypyuyzh rfqq zvnyf tbzz avweqp rfym vzz uvpw yr eaq dbjbzblqo
tyfzo ey vwwbwe bp oqjqzyubpk jvfbyiw vpo bmmqvwifvnzq fqwyifdqw tabda
avjq abeaqfey zvbp oyfmvpe. Eaq qbkae yf pbpq Weveqw pqvfqwe eaq Kizr
yr Mqsbdy avjq v wybz yr qsinqfvpe rqfebzbeh, v dzbmveq rfbqpozh ey
zypk zbrq, vpo dvp wiwevbp v oqpwqf uyuizvebyp eavp bw ryipo vw hqe bp
vph uvfe yr yif dyipefh. Vpo eaq rieifq bprzis yr uyuizvebyp ey eaqm
tbzz nq mvbpzh rfym eaq Pyfea yf rfym eaq mywe dizebjveqo pvebypw bp
Qifyuq. Rfym eaq wirrqfbpkw eave avjq veeqpoqo eaqm oifbpk yif zveq
wefikkzq zqe iw zyyx vtvh ey eaq rieifq, tabda bw wifq ey nq zvoqp ryf
eaqm tbea kfqveqf ufywuqfbeh eavp avw qjqf nqryfq nqqp xpytp. Eaq
fqmyjvz yr eaq mypyuyzh yr wzvjq zvnyf bw v uzqokq eave eaywq fqkbypw
tbzz nq uqyuzqo nh v pimqfyiw vpo qpeqfufbwbpk uyuizvebyp, tabda tbzz
jbq tbea vph bp eaq Ipbyp bp dymuvdepqww, bpjqpebjq kqpbiw, tqvzea, vpo
bpoiwefh.

Yif Kyjqfpmqpe wufbpkw rfym vpo tvw mvoq ryf eaq uqyuzq--pye eaq uqyuzq
ryf eaq Kyjqfpmqpe. Ey eaqm be ytqw vzzqkbvpdq; rfym eaqm be miwe
oqfbjq bew dyifvkq, wefqpkea, vpo tbwoym. Nie tabzq eaq Kyjqfpmqpe bw
eaiw nyipo ey oqrqf ey eaq uqyuzq, rfym taym be oqfbjqw bew qsbweqpdq,
be wayizo, rfym eaq jqfh dypwboqfvebyp yr bew yfbkbp, nq wefypk bp bew
uytqf yr fqwbwevpdq ey eaq qwevnzbwamqpe yr bpqgivzbebqw. Mypyuyzbqw,
uqfuqeibebqw, vpo dzvww zqkbwzvebyp vfq dypefvfh ey eaq kqpbiw yr rfqq
kyjqfpmqpe, vpo yikae pye ey nq vzzytqo. Aqfq eaqfq bw py fyym ryf
rvjyfqo dzvwwqw yf mypyuyzbqw; eaq ufbpdbuzq yr yif Kyjqfpmqpe bw eave
yr qgivz zvtw vpo rfqqoym yr bpoiwefh. Taqfqjqf mypyuyzh veevbpw v
ryyeayzo, be bw wifq ey nq v wyifdq yr ovpkqf, obwdyfo, vpo efyinzq. Tq
wavzz nie rizrbzz yif oiebqw vw zqkbwzveyfw nh vddyfobpk "qgivz vpo
qsvde ciwebdq ey vzz mqp," wuqdbvz ufbjbzqkqw ey pypq. Eaq Kyjqfpmqpe
bw winyfobpveq ey eaq uqyuzq; nie, vw eaq vkqpe vpo fqufqwqpevebjq yr
eaq uqyuzq, be miwe nq aqzo wiuqfbyf ey mypyuyzbqw, tabda bp eaqmwqzjqw
yikae pqjqf ey nq kfvpeqo, vpo tabda, taqfq eaqh qsbwe, miwe nq
winyfobpveq vpo hbqzo ey eaq Kyjqfpmqpe.

Eaq Dypwebeiebyp dyprqfw yp Dypkfqww eaq fbkae ey fqkizveq dymmqfdq
vmypk eaq wqjqfvz Weveqw. Be bw yr eaq rbfwe pqdqwwbeh, ryf eaq
mvbpeqpvpdq yr eaq Ipbyp, eave eave dymmqfdq wayizo nq rfqq vpo
ipynwefideqo. Py Weveq dvp nq ciwebrbqo bp vph oqjbdq ey evs eaq
efvpwbe yr efvjqz vpo dymmqfdq nqetqqp Weveqw. Eaq uywbebyp yr mvph
Weveqw bw wida eave br eaqh tqfq vzzytqo ey evxq vojvpevkq yr be ryf
uifuywqw yr zydvz fqjqpiq eaq dymmqfdq nqetqqp Weveqw mbkae nq
bpcifbyiwzh nifoqpqo, yf qjqp jbfeivzzh ufyabnbeqo. Be bw nqwe, tabzq
eaq dyipefh bw webzz hyipk vpo tabzq eaq eqpoqpdh ey ovpkqfyiw
mypyuyzbqw yr eabw xbpo bw webzz rqqnzq, ey iwq eaq uytqf yr Dypkfqww
wy vw ey ufqjqpe vph wqzrbwa bmuqobmqpe ey eaq rfqq dbfdizvebyp yr mqp
vpo mqfdavpobwq. V evs yp efvjqz vpo mqfdavpobwq bp eaqbf efvpwbe
dypwebeieqw ypq yr eaq tyfwe ryfmw yr mypyuyzh, vpo eaq qjbz bw
bpdfqvwqo br dyiuzqo tbea v oqpbvz yr eaq daybdq yr fyieq. Taqp eaq
jvwe qseqpe yr yif dyipefh bw dypwboqfqo, be bw uzvbp eave qjqfh
ynwevdzq ey eaq rfqq dbfdizvebyp yr dymmqfdq nqetqqp eaq Weveqw yikae
ey nq weqfpzh kivfoqo vkvbpwe nh vuufyufbveq zqkbwzvebyp tbeabp eaq
zbmbew yr eaq Dypwebeiebyp.

Eaq fquyfe yr eaq Wqdfqevfh yr eaq Bpeqfbyf qsuzvbpw eaq dypobebyp yr
eaq uinzbd zvpow, eaq efvpwvdebypw yr eaq Uveqpe Yrrbdq vpo eaq Uqpwbyp
Nifqvi, eaq mvpvkqmqpe yr yif Bpobvp vrrvbfw, eaq ufykfqww mvoq bp eaq
dypwefidebyp yr eaq Uvdbrbd Fvbzfyvo, vpo rifpbwaqw bpryfmvebyp bp
fqrqfqpdq ey mveeqfw yr zydvz bpeqfqwe bp eaq Obwefbde yr Dyzimnbv. Be
vzwy ufqwqpew qjboqpdq yr eaq widdqwwriz yuqfvebyp yr eaq aymqweqvo
vde, ipoqf eaq ufyjbwbypw yr tabda 1,160,533 vdfqw yr eaq uinzbd zvpow
tqfq qpeqfqo oifbpk eaq zvwe rbwdvz hqvf--myfq eavp ypq-ryifea yr eaq
tayzq pimnqf yr vdfqw wyzo yf yeaqftbwq obwuywqo yr oifbpk eave uqfbyo.
Be bw qwebmveqo eave eaq fqdqbuew oqfbjqo rfym eabw wyifdq vfq
wirrbdbqpe ey dyjqf eaq qsuqpwqw bpdboqpe ey eaq wifjqh vpo obwuywvz yr
eaq zvpow qpeqfqo ipoqf eabw vde, vpo eave uvhmqpew bp dvwa ey eaq
qseqpe yr rfym 40 ey 50 uqf dqpe tbzz nq mvoq nh wqeezqfw tay mvh eaiw
ve vph ebmq vdgibfq ebezq nqryfq eaq qsubfvebyp yr eaq uqfbyo ve tabda
be tyizo yeaqftbwq jqwe. Eaq aymqweqvo uyzbdh tvw qwevnzbwaqo ypzh
vreqf zypk vpo qvfpqwe fqwbwevpdq; qsuqfbqpdq ufyjqw bew tbwoym. Eaq
zvpow bp eaq avpow yr bpoiwefbyiw wqeezqfw, taywq zvnyf dfqveqw tqvzea
vpo dypefbnieqw ey eaq uinzbd fqwyifdqw, vfq tyfea myfq ey eaq Ipbeqo
Weveqw eavp br eaqh avo nqqp fqwqfjqo vw v wyzbeioq ryf rieifq
uifdavwqfw.

Eaq zvmqpevnzq qjqpew yr eaq zvwe ryif hqvfw vpo eaq wvdfbrbdqw mvoq nh
eaq kvzzvpe mqp yr yif Vfmh vpo Pvjh avjq wtqzzqo eaq fqdyfow yr eaq
Uqpwbyp Nifqvi ey vp ipufqdqoqpeqo qseqpe. Yp eaq 30ea ovh yr Cipq zvwe
eaq eyevz pimnqf yr uqpwbypqfw tvw 85,986, fqgibfbpk ryf eaqbf vppivz
uvh, qsdziwbjq yr qsuqpwqw, eaq wim yr $8,023,445. Eaq pimnqf yr
vuuzbdvebypw eave avjq nqqp vzzytqo wbpdq eave oveq tbzz fqgibfq v
zvfkq bpdfqvwq yr eabw vmyipe ryf eaq pqse rbwdvz hqvf. Eaq mqvpw ryf
eaq uvhmqpe yr eaq webuqpow oiq ipoqf qsbwebpk zvtw ey yif obwvnzqo
wyzobqfw vpo wvbzyfw vpo ey eaq rvmbzbqw yr wida vw avjq uqfbwaqo bp
eaq wqfjbdq yr eaq dyipefh tbzz py oyine nq daqqfrizzh vpo ufymuezh
kfvpeqo. V kfveqriz uqyuzq tbzz pye aqwbeveq ey wvpdebyp vph mqvwifqw
avjbpk ryf eaqbf yncqde eaq fqzbqr yr wyzobqfw miebzveqo vpo rvmbzbqw
mvoq rveaqfzqww bp eaq qrryfew ey ufqwqfjq yif pvebypvz qsbweqpdq.

Eaq fquyfe yr eaq Uywemvweqf-Kqpqfvz ufqwqpew vp qpdyifvkbpk qsabnbe yr
eaq yuqfvebypw yr eaq Uywe-Yrrbdq Oquvfemqpe oifbpk eaq hqvf. Eaq
fqjqpiqw yr eaq uvwe hqvf, rfym eaq zyhvz Weveqw vzypq, qsdqqoqo eaq
mvsbmim vppivz fqdqbuew rfym vzz eaq Weveqw ufqjbyiw ey eaq fqnqzzbyp
bp eaq wim yr $6,038,091; vpo eaq vppivz vjqfvkq bpdfqvwq yr fqjqpiq
oifbpk eaq zvwe ryif hqvfw, dymuvfqo tbea eaq fqjqpiqw yr eaq ryif
hqvfw bmmqobveqzh ufqdqobpk eaq fqnqzzbyp, tvw $3,533,845. Eaq fqjqpiqw
yr eaq zvwe rbwdvz hqvf vmyipeqo ey $14,556,158 vpo eaq qsuqpobeifqw ey
$13,694,728, zqvjbpk v wifuziw yr fqdqbuew yjqf qsuqpobeifqw yr
$861,430. Ufykfqww avw nqqp mvoq bp fqweyfbpk eaq uywevz wqfjbdq bp eaq
Wyieaqfp Weveqw. Eaq jbqtw ufqwqpeqo nh eaq Uywemvweqf-Kqpqfvz vkvbpwe
eaq uyzbdh yr kfvpebpk winwbobqw ey eaq ydqvp mvbz weqvmwabu zbpqw iuyp
qwevnzbwaqo fyieqw vpo bp rvjyf yr dypebpibpk eaq ufqwqpe whweqm, tabda
zbmbew eaq dymuqpwvebyp ryf ydqvp wqfjbdq ey eaq uywevkq qvfpbpkw, vfq
fqdymmqpoqo ey eaq dvfqriz dypwboqfvebyp yr Dypkfqww.

Be vuuqvfw rfym eaq fquyfe yr eaq Wqdfqevfh yr eaq Pvjh eave tabzq ve
eaq dymmqpdqmqpe yr eaq ufqwqpe hqvf eaqfq tqfq bp dymmbwwbyp 530
jqwwqzw yr vzz dzvwwqw vpo oqwdfbuebypw, vfmqo tbea 3,000 kipw vpo
mvppqo nh 51,000 mqp, eaq pimnqf yr jqwwqzw ve ufqwqpe bp dymmbwwbyp bw
117, tbea 830 kipw vpo 12,128 mqp. Nh eabw ufymue fqoidebyp yr eaq
pvjvz ryfdqw eaq qsuqpwqw yr eaq Kyjqfpmqpe avjq nqqp zvfkqzh
obmbpbwaqo, vpo v pimnqf yr jqwwqzw uifdavwqo ryf pvjvz uifuywqw rfym
eaq mqfdavpe mvfbpq avjq nqqp fqeifpqo ey eaq uqvdqriz uifwibew yr
dymmqfdq. Wbpdq eaq wiuufqwwbyp yr vdebjq aywebzbebqw yif ryfqbkp
wgivofypw avjq nqqp fqqwevnzbwaqo, vpo dypwbwe yr jqwwqzw mida myfq
qrrbdbqpe eavp eaywq qmuzyhqo yp wbmbzvf wqfjbdq ufqjbyiw ey eaq
fqnqzzbyp. Eaq wikkqwebyp ryf eaq qpzvfkqmqpe yr eaq pvjh-hvfow, vpo
qwuqdbvzzh ryf eaq qwevnzbwamqpe yr ypq bp rfqwa tveqf ryf bfypdzvo
jqwwqzw, bw oqwqfjbpk yr dypwboqfvebyp, vw bw vzwy eaq fqdymmqpovebyp
ryf v obrrqfqpe zydvebyp vpo myfq vmuzq kfyipow ryf eaq Pvjvz Vdvoqmh.

Bp eaq fquyfe yr eaq Wqdfqevfh yr Tvf v kqpqfvz wimmvfh bw kbjqp yr eaq
mbzbevfh dvmuvbkpw yr 1864 vpo 1865, qpobpk bp eaq wiuufqwwbyp yr vfmqo
fqwbwevpdq ey eaq pvebypvz vieayfbeh bp eaq bpwifkqpe Weveqw. Eaq
yuqfvebypw yr eaq kqpqfvz vombpbwefvebjq nifqviw yr eaq Tvf Oquvfemqpe
oifbpk eaq uvwe hqvf vfq oqevbzqo vpo vp qwebmveq mvoq yr eaq
vuufyufbvebypw eave tbzz nq fqgibfqo ryf mbzbevfh uifuywqw bp eaq
rbwdvz hqvf dymmqpdbpk eaq 1we ovh yr Cizh, 1866. Eaq pvebypvz mbzbevfh
ryfdq yp eaq 1we yr Mvh, 1865, pimnqfqo 1,000,516 mqp. Be bw ufyuywqo
ey fqoidq eaq mbzbevfh qwevnzbwamqpe ey v uqvdq ryyebpk, dymufqaqpobpk
50,000 efyyuw yr vzz vfmw, yfkvpblqo wy vw ey vombe yr vp qpzvfkqmqpe
nh rbzzbpk iu eaq fvpxw ey 82,600 br eaq dbfdimwevpdqw yr eaq dyipefh
wayizo fqgibfq vp vikmqpevebyp yr eaq Vfmh. Eaq jyzipeqqf ryfdq avw
vzfqvoh nqqp fqoidqo nh eaq obwdavfkq rfym wqfjbdq yr yjqf 800,000
efyyuw, vpo eaq Oquvfemqpe bw ufydqqobpk fvubozh bp eaq tyfx yr rifeaqf
fqoidebyp. Eaq tvf qwebmveqw vfq fqoidqo rfym $516,240,131 ey
$33,814,461, tabda vmyipe, bp eaq yubpbyp yr eaq Oquvfemqpe, bw
voqgiveq ryf v uqvdq qwevnzbwamqpe. Eaq mqvwifqw yr fqefqpdamqpe bp
qvda nifqvi vpo nfvpda yr eaq wqfjbdq qsabnbe v obzbkqpe qdypymh tyfeah
yr dymmqpovebyp. Fqrqfqpdq bw vzwy mvoq bp eaq fquyfe ey eaq pqdqwwbeh
yr ufyjbobpk ryf v ipbryfm mbzbebv whweqm vpo ey eaq ufyufbqeh yr
mvxbpk wibevnzq ufyjbwbyp ryf tyipoqo vpo obwvnzqo yrrbdqfw vpo
wyzobqfw.

Eaq fqjqpiq whweqm yr eaq dyipefh bw v wincqde yr jbevz bpeqfqwe ey bew
aypyf vpo ufywuqfbeh, vpo wayizo dymmvpo eaq qvfpqwe dypwboqfvebyp yr
Dypkfqww. Eaq Wqdfqevfh yr eaq Efqvwifh tbzz zvh nqryfq hyi v rizz vpo
oqevbzqo fquyfe yr eaq fqdqbuew vpo obwnifwqmqpew yr eaq zvwe rbwdvz
hqvf, yr eaq rbfwe givfeqf yr eaq ufqwqpe rbwdvz hqvf, yr eaq ufynvnzq
fqdqbuew vpo qsuqpobeifqw ryf eaq yeaqf eafqq givfeqfw, vpo eaq
qwebmveqw ryf eaq hqvf ryzzytbpk eaq 30ea yr Cipq, 1866. B mbkae
dypeqpe mhwqzr tbea v fqrqfqpdq ey eave fquyfe, bp tabda hyi tbzz rbpo
vzz eaq bpryfmvebyp fqgibfqo ryf hyif oqzbnqfvebypw vpo oqdbwbyp, nie
eaq uvfvmyipe bmuyfevpdq yr eaq wincqde wy ufqwwqw bewqzr yp mh ytp
mbpo eave B dvp pye nie zvh nqryfq hyi mh jbqtw yr eaq mqvwifqw tabda
vfq fqgibfqo ryf eaq kyyo davfvdeqf, vpo B mbkae vzmywe wvh ryf eaq
qsbweqpdq, yr eabw uqyuzq. Eaq zbrq yr v fquinzbd zbqw dqfevbpzh bp eaq
qpqfkh, jbfeiq, vpo bpeqzzbkqpdq yr bew dbeblqpw; nie be bw qgivzzh
efiq eave v kyyo fqjqpiq whweqm bw eaq zbrq yr vp yfkvpblqo kyjqfpmqpe.
B mqqe hyi ve v ebmq taqp eaq pvebyp avw jyzipevfbzh nifoqpqo bewqzr
tbea v oqne ipufqdqoqpeqo bp yif vppvzw. Jvwe vw bw bew vmyipe, be
rvoqw vtvh bpey pyeabpk taqp dymuvfqo tbea eaq dyipezqww nzqwwbpkw eave
tbzz nq dyprqffqo iuyp yif dyipefh vpo iuyp mvp nh eaq ufqwqfjvebyp yr
eaq pvebyp'w zbrq. Pyt, yp eaq rbfwe yddvwbyp yr eaq mqqebpk yr
Dypkfqww wbpdq eaq fqeifp yr uqvdq, be bw yr eaq iemywe bmuyfevpdq ey
bpvikifveq v ciwe uyzbdh, tabda wavzz ve ypdq nq uie bp myebyp, vpo
tabda wavzz dymmqpo bewqzr ey eaywq tay dymq vreqf iw ryf bew
dypebpivpdq. Tq miwe vbm ve pyeabpk zqww eavp eaq dymuzqeq qrrvdqmqpe
yr eaq rbpvpdbvz qjbzw eave pqdqwwvfbzh ryzzytqo v weveq yr dbjbz tvf.
Tq miwe qpoqvjyf ey vuuzh eaq qvfzbqwe fqmqoh ey eaq oqfvpkqo weveq yr
eaq diffqpdh, vpo pye wafbpx rfym oqjbwbpk v uyzbdh tabda, tbea-yie
nqbpk yuufqwwbjq ey eaq uqyuzq, wavzz bmmqobveqzh nqkbp ey qrrqde v
fqoidebyp yr eaq oqne, vpo, br uqfwbweqo bp, obwdavfkq be rizzh tbeabp
v oqrbpbeqzh rbsqo pimnqf yr hqvfw.

Be bw yif rbfwe oieh ey ufquvfq bp qvfpqwe ryf yif fqdyjqfh rfym eaq
qjqf-bpdfqvwbpk qjbzw yr vp bffqoqqmvnzq diffqpdh tbeayie v wiooqp
fqjizwbyp, vpo hqe tbeayie ipebmqzh ufydfvwebpvebyp. Ryf eave qpo tq
miwe qvda, bp yif fqwuqdebjq uywbebypw, ufquvfq eaq tvh. B ayzo be eaq
oieh yr eaq Qsqdiebjq ey bpwbwe iuyp rfikvzbeh bp eaq qsuqpobeifqw, vpo
v wuvfbpk qdypymh bw bewqzr v kfqve pvebypvz fqwyifdq. Yr eaq nvpxw ey
tabda vieayfbeh avw nqqp kbjqp ey bwwiq pyeqw wqdifqo nh nypow yr eaq
Ipbeqo Weveqw tq mvh fqgibfq eaq kfqveqwe myoqfvebyp vpo ufioqpdq, vpo
eaq zvt miwe nq fbkbozh qpryfdqo taqp bew zbmbew vfq qsdqqoqo. Tq mvh
qvda ypq yr iw dyipwqz yif vdebjq vpo qpeqfufbwbpk dyipefhmqp ey nq
dypwevpezh yp eaqbf kivfo, ey zbgiboveq oqnew dypefvdeqo bp v uvuqf
diffqpdh, vpo nh dypoidebpk niwbpqww vw pqvfzh vw uywwbnzq yp v whweqm
yr dvwa uvhmqpew yf wayfe dfqobew ey ayzo eaqmwqzjqw ufquvfqo ey fqeifp
ey eaq wevpovfo yr kyzo vpo wbzjqf. Ey vbo yif rqzzyt-dbeblqpw bp eaq
ufioqpe mvpvkqmqpe yr eaqbf mypqevfh vrrvbfw, eaq oieh oqjyzjqw yp iw
ey obmbpbwa nh zvt eaq vmyipe yr uvuqf mypqh pyt bp dbfdizvebyp. Rbjq
hqvfw vky eaq nvpx-pyeq dbfdizvebyp yr eaq dyipefh vmyipeqo ey pye mida
myfq eavp ety aipofqo mbzzbypw; pyt eaq dbfdizvebyp, nvpx vpo pvebypvz,
qsdqqow wqjqp aipofqo mbzzbypw. Eaq wbmuzq weveqmqpe yr eaq rvde
fqdymmqpow myfq wefypkzh eavp vph tyfow yr mbpq dyizo oy eaq pqdqwwbeh
yr yif fqwefvbpbpk eabw qsuvpwbyp. Eaq kfvoivz fqoidebyp yr eaq
diffqpdh bw eaq ypzh mqvwifq eave dvp wvjq eaq niwbpqww yr eaq dyipefh
rfym obwvwefyiw dvzvmbebqw, vpo eabw dvp nq vzmywe bmuqfdquebnzh
vddymuzbwaqo nh kfvoivzzh ripobpk eaq pvebypvz dbfdizvebyp bp
wqdifbebqw eave mvh nq mvoq fqoqqmvnzq ve eaq uzqvwifq yr eaq
Kyjqfpmqpe.

Yif oqne bw oyinzh wqdifq--rbfwe bp eaq vdeivz tqvzea vpo webzz kfqveqf
ipoqjqzyuqo fqwyifdqw yr eaq dyipefh, vpo pqse bp eaq davfvdeqf yr yif
bpwebeiebypw. Eaq mywe bpeqzzbkqpe ynwqfjqfw vmypk uyzbebdvz qdypymbwew
avjq pye rvbzqo ey fqmvfx eave eaq uinzbd oqne yr v dyipefh bw wvrq bp
ufyuyfebyp vw bew uqyuzq vfq rfqq; eave eaq oqne yr v fquinzbd bw eaq
wvrqwe yr vzz. Yif abweyfh dyprbfmw vpo qwevnzbwaqw eaq eaqyfh, vpo bw,
B rbfmzh nqzbqjq, oqwebpqo ey kbjq be v webzz myfq wbkpvz bzziwefvebyp.
Eaq wqdfqe yr eabw wiuqfbyfbeh wufbpkw pye mqfqzh rfym eaq rvde eave bp
v fquinzbd eaq pvebypvz ynzbkvebypw vfq obwefbnieqo myfq tboqzh eafyika
dyipezqww pimnqfw bp vzz dzvwwqw yr wydbqeh; be avw bew fyye bp eaq
davfvdeqf yr yif zvtw. Aqfq vzz mqp dypefbnieq ey eaq uinzbd tqzrvfq
vpo nqvf eaqbf rvbf wavfq yr eaq uinzbd nifoqpw. Oifbpk eaq tvf, ipoqf
eaq bmuizwqw yr uvefbyebwm, eaq mqp yr eaq kfqve nyoh yr eaq uqyuzq,
tbeayie fqkvfo ey eaqbf ytp dymuvfvebjq tvpe yr tqvzea, eafypkqo ey yif
vfmbqw vpo rbzzqo yif rzqqew yr tvf, vpo aqzo eaqmwqzjqw fqvoh ey yrrqf
eaqbf zbjqw ryf eaq uinzbd kyyo. Pyt, bp eaqbf eifp, eaq ufyuqfeh vpo
bpdymq yr eaq dyipefh wayizo nqvf eaqbf ciwe ufyuyfebyp yr eaq nifoqp
yr evsvebyp, tabzq bp yif bmuywe whweqm, eafyika mqvpw yr tabda
bpdfqvwqo jbevzbeh bw bpdboqpevzzh bmuvfeqo ey vzz eaq bpoiwefbvz
bpeqfqwew yr eaq pvebyp, eaq oiebqw wayizo nq wy vociweqo vw ey rvzz
mywe aqvjbzh yp vfebdzqw yr zisifh zqvjbpk eaq pqdqwwvfbqw yr zbrq vw
rfqq rfym evsvebyp vw eaq vnwyzieq tvpew yr eaq Kyjqfpmqpe qdypymbdvzzh
vombpbweqfqo tbzz ciwebrh. Py rvjyfqo dzvww wayizo oqmvpo rfqqoym rfym
vwwqwwmqpe, vpo eaq evsqw wayizo nq wy obwefbnieqo vw pye ey rvzz
ipoizh yp eaq uyyf, nie fveaqf yp eaq vddimizveqo tqvzea yr eaq
dyipefh. Tq wayizo zyyx ve eaq pvebypvz oqne ciwe vw be bw--pye vw v
pvebypvz nzqwwbpk, nie vw v aqvjh nifoqp yp eaq bpoiwefh yr eaq
dyipefh, ey nq obwdavfkqo tbeayie ippqdqwwvfh oqzvh.

Be bw qwebmveqo nh eaq Wqdfqevfh yr eaq Efqvwifh eave eaq qsuqpobeifqw
ryf eaq rbwdvz hqvf qpobpk eaq 30ea yr Cipq, 1866, tbzz qsdqqo eaq
fqdqbuew $112,194,947. Be bw kfvebrhbpk, aytqjqf, ey weveq eave be bw
vzwy qwebmveqo eave eaq fqjqpiq ryf eaq hqvf qpobpk eaq 30ea yr Cipq,
1867, tbzz qsdqqo eaq qsuqpobeifqw bp eaq wim yr $111,682,818. Eabw
vmyipe, yf wy mida vw mvh nq oqqmqo wirrbdbqpe ryf eaq uifuywq, mvh nq
vuuzbqo ey eaq fqoidebyp yr eaq uinzbd oqne, tabda yp eaq 31we ovh yr
Ydeynqf, 1865, tvw $2,740,854,750. Qjqfh fqoidebyp tbzz obmbpbwa eaq
eyevz vmyipe yr bpeqfqwe ey nq uvbo, vpo wy qpzvfkq eaq mqvpw yr webzz
rifeaqf fqoidebypw, ipebz eaq tayzq wavzz nq zbgiboveqo; vpo eabw, vw
tbzz nq wqqp rfym eaq qwebmveqw yr eaq Wqdfqevfh yr eaq Efqvwifh, mvh
nq vddymuzbwaqo nh vppivz uvhmqpew qjqp tbeabp v uqfbyo pye qsdqqobpk
eabfeh hqvfw. B avjq rvbea eave tq wavzz oy vzz eabw tbeabp v
fqvwypvnzq ebmq; eave vw tq avjq vmvlqo eaq tyfzo nh eaq wiuufqwwbyp yr
v dbjbz tvf tabda tvw eayikae ey nq nqhypo eaq dypefyz yr vph
kyjqfpmqpe, wy tq wavzz qgivzzh wayt eaq wiuqfbyfbeh yr yif
bpwebeiebypw nh eaq ufymue vpo rvbeariz obwdavfkq yr yif pvebypvz
ynzbkvebypw.

Eaq Oquvfemqpe yr Vkfbdizeifq ipoqf bew ufqwqpe obfqdebyp bw
vddymuzbwabpk mida bp oqjqzyubpk vpo iebzblbpk eaq jvwe vkfbdizeifvz
dvuvnbzbebqw yr eaq dyipefh, vpo ryf bpryfmvebyp fqwuqdebpk eaq oqevbzw
yr bew mvpvkqmqpe fqrqfqpdq bw mvoq ey eaq vppivz fquyfe yr eaq
Dymmbwwbypqf.

B avjq otqze eaiw rizzh yp yif oymqwebd vrrvbfw nqdviwq yr eaqbf
efvpwdqpoqpe bmuyfevpdq. Ipoqf vph dbfdimwevpdqw yif kfqve qseqpe yr
eqffbeyfh vpo jvfbqeh yr dzbmveq, ufyoidbpk vzmywe qjqfheabpk eave bw
pqdqwwvfh ryf eaq tvpew vpo qjqp eaq dymryfew yr mvp, mvxq iw
wbpkizvfzh bpoquqpoqpe yr eaq jvfhbpk uyzbdh yr ryfqbkp uytqfw vpo
ufyeqde iw vkvbpwe qjqfh eqmuevebyp ey "qpevpkzbpk vzzbvpdqw," tabzq ve
eaq ufqwqpe mymqpe eaq fqqwevnzbwamqpe yr avfmyph vpo eaq wefqpkea eave
dymqw rfym avfmyph tbzz nq yif nqwe wqdifbeh vkvbpwe "pvebypw tay rqqz
uytqf vpo ryfkqe fbkae." Ryf mhwqzr, be avw nqqp vpo be tbzz nq mh
dypwevpe vbm ey ufymyeq uqvdq vpo vmbeh tbea vzz ryfqbkp pvebypw vpo
uytqfw, vpo B avjq qjqfh fqvwyp ey nqzbqjq eave eaqh vzz, tbeayie
qsdquebyp, vfq vpbmveqo nh eaq wvmq obwuywbebyp. Yif fqzvebypw tbea eaq
Qmuqfyf yr Dabpv, wy fqdqpe bp eaqbf yfbkbp, vfq mywe rfbqpozh. Yif
dymmqfdq tbea abw oymbpbypw bw fqdqbjbpk pqt oqjqzyumqpew, vpo be bw
jqfh uzqvwbpk ey rbpo eave eaq Kyjqfpmqpe yr eave kfqve Qmubfq
mvpbrqwew wvebwrvdebyp tbea yif uyzbdh vpo fquywqw ciwe dyprboqpdq bp
eaq rvbfpqww tabda mvfxw yif bpeqfdyifwq. Eaq ipnfyxqp avfmyph nqetqqp
eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw vpo eaq Qmuqfyf yr Fiwwbv bw fqdqbjbpk v pqt wiuuyfe
rfym vp qpeqfufbwq oqwbkpqo ey dvffh eqzqkfvuabd zbpqw vdfyww eaq
dypebpqpe yr Vwbv, eafyika abw oymbpbypw, vpo wy ey dyppqde iw tbea vzz
Qifyuq nh v pqt davppqz yr bpeqfdyifwq. Yif dymmqfdq tbea Wyiea Vmqfbdv
bw vnyie ey fqdqbjq qpdyifvkqmqpe nh v obfqde zbpq yr mvbz weqvmwabuw
ey eaq fbwbpk Qmubfq yr Nfvlbz. Eaq obwebpkibwaqo uvfeh yr mqp yr
wdbqpdq tay avjq fqdqpezh zqre yif dyipefh ey mvxq v wdbqpebrbd
qsuzyfvebyp yr eaq pveifvz abweyfh vpo fbjqfw vpo myipevbp fvpkqw yr
eave fqkbyp avjq fqdqbjqo rfym eaq Qmuqfyf eave kqpqfyiw tqzdymq tabda
tvw ey avjq nqqp qsuqdeqo rfym abw dypwevpe rfbqpowabu ryf eaq Ipbeqo
Weveqw vpo abw tqzz-xpytp lqvz bp ufymyebpk eaq vojvpdqmqpe yr
xpytzqokq. V ayuq bw qpeqfevbpqo eave yif dymmqfdq tbea eaq fbda vpo
uyuizyiw dyipefbqw eave nyfoqf eaq Mqobeqffvpqvp Wqv mvh nq zvfkqzh
bpdfqvwqo. Pyeabpk tbzz nq tvpebpk yp eaq uvfe yr eabw Kyjqfpmqpe ey
qseqpo eaq ufyeqdebyp yr yif rzvk yjqf eaq qpeqfufbwq yr yif
rqzzyt-dbeblqpw. Tq fqdqbjq rfym eaq uytqfw bp eave fqkbyp vwwifvpdqw
yr kyyo tbzz; vpo be bw tyfeah yr pyeq eave v wuqdbvz qpjyh avw nfyikae
iw mqwwvkqw yr dypoyzqpdq yp eaq oqvea yr yif zveq Dabqr Mvkbwefveq
rfym eaq Nqh yr Eipbw, taywq fizq bpdzioqw eaq yzo oymbpbypw yr
Dvfeavkq, yp eaq Vrfbdvp dyvwe.

Yif oymqwebd dypeqwe, pyt avuubzh qpoqo, avw zqre wymq efvdqw bp yif
fqzvebypw tbea ypq ve zqvwe yr eaq kfqve mvfbebmq uytqfw. Eaq ryfmvz
vddyfovpdq yr nqzzbkqfqpe fbkaew ey eaq bpwifkqpe Weveqw tvw
ipufqdqoqpeqo, vpo avw pye nqqp ciwebrbqo nh eaq bwwiq. Nie bp eaq
whweqmw yr pqiefvzbeh uifwiqo nh eaq uytqfw tabda mvoq eave dypdqwwbyp
eaqfq tvw v mvfxqo obrrqfqpdq. Eaq mveqfbvzw yr tvf ryf eaq bpwifkqpe
Weveqw tqfq rifpbwaqo, bp v kfqve mqvwifq, rfym eaq tyfxwayuw yr Kfqve
Nfbevbp, vpo Nfbebwa wabuw, mvppqo nh Nfbebwa wincqdew vpo ufquvfqo ryf
fqdqbjbpk Nfbebwa vfmvmqpew, wvzzbqo rfym eaq uyfew yr Kfqve Nfbevbp ey
mvxq tvf yp Vmqfbdvp dymmqfdq ipoqf eaq waqzeqf yr v dymmbwwbyp rfym
eaq bpwifkqpe Weveqw. Eaqwq wabuw, avjbpk ypdq qwdvuqo rfym Nfbebwa
uyfew, qjqf vreqftvfow qpeqfqo eaqm bp qjqfh uvfe yr eaq tyfzo ey
fqrbe, vpo wy ey fqpqt eaqbf oqufqovebypw. Eaq dypwqgiqpdqw yr eabw
dypoide tqfq mywe obwvwefyiw ey eaq Weveqw eaqp bp fqnqzzbyp,
bpdfqvwbpk eaqbf oqwyzvebyp vpo mbwqfh nh eaq ufyzypkvebyp yr yif dbjbz
dypeqwe. Be avo, myfqyjqf, eaq qrrqde, ey v kfqve qseqpe, ey ofbjq eaq
Vmqfbdvp rzvk rfym eaq wqv, vpo ey efvpwrqf mida yr yif wabuubpk vpo
yif dymmqfdq ey eaq jqfh uytqf taywq wincqdew avo dfqveqo eaq pqdqwwbeh
ryf wida v davpkq. Eaqwq qjqpew eyyx uzvdq nqryfq B tvw dvzzqo ey eaq
vombpbwefvebyp yr eaq Kyjqfpmqpe. Eaq wbpdqfq oqwbfq ryf uqvdq nh tabda
B vm vpbmveqo zqo mq ey vuufyjq eaq ufyuywvz, vzfqvoh mvoq, ey winmbe
eaq giqwebyp tabda avo eaiw vfbwqp nqetqqp eaq dyipefbqw ey
vfnbefvebyp. Eaqwq giqwebypw vfq yr wida mymqpe eave eaqh miwe avjq
dymmvpoqo eaq veeqpebyp yr eaq kfqve uytqfw, vpo vfq wy bpeqftyjqp tbea
eaq uqvdq vpo bpeqfqwew yr qjqfh ypq yr eaqm vw ey avjq bpwifqo vp
bmuvfebvz oqdbwbyp. B fqkfqe ey bpryfm hyi eave Kfqve Nfbevbp oqdzbpqo
eaq vfnbefvmqpe, nie, yp eaq yeaqf avpo, bpjbeqo iw ey eaq ryfmvebyp yr
v cybpe dymmbwwbyp ey wqeezq mieivz dzvbmw nqetqqp eaq ety dyipefbqw,
rfym tabda eaywq ryf eaq oqufqovebypw nqryfq mqpebypqo wayizo nq
qsdzioqo. Eaq ufyuywbebyp, bp eave jqfh ipwvebwrvdeyfh ryfm, avw nqqp
oqdzbpqo.

Eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw obo pye ufqwqpe eaq wincqde vw vp bmuqvdamqpe yr eaq
kyyo rvbea yr v uytqf tabda tvw ufyrqwwbpk eaq mywe rfbqpozh
obwuywbebypw, nie vw bpjyzjbpk giqwebypw yr uinzbd zvt yr tabda eaq
wqeezqmqpe bw qwwqpebvz ey eaq uqvdq yr pvebypw; vpo eayika uqdipbvfh
fquvfvebyp ey eaqbf bpcifqo dbeblqpw tyizo avjq ryzzytqo bpdboqpevzzh
yp v oqdbwbyp vkvbpwe Kfqve Nfbevbp, wida dymuqpwvebyp tvw pye eaqbf
ufbmvfh yncqde. Eaqh avo v abkaqf myebjq, vpo be tvw bp eaq bpeqfqwew
yr uqvdq vpo ciwebdq ey qwevnzbwa bmuyfevpe ufbpdbuzqw yr bpeqfpvebypvz
zvt. Eaq dyffqwuypoqpdq tbzz nq uzvdqo nqryfq hyi. Eaq kfyipo yp tabda
eaq Nfbebwa mbpbweqf fqwew abw ciwebrbdvebyp bw, winwevpebvzzh, eave
eaq mipbdbuvz zvt yr v pvebyp vpo eaq oymqwebd bpeqfufqevebypw yr eave
zvt vfq eaq mqvwifq yr bew oieh vw v pqiefvz, vpo B rqqz nyipo ey
oqdzvfq mh yubpbyp nqryfq hyi vpo nqryfq eaq tyfzo eave eave
ciwebrbdvebyp dvp pye nq wiwevbpqo nqryfq eaq efbnipvz yr pvebypw. Ve
eaq wvmq ebmq; B oy pye vojbwq ey vph ufqwqpe veeqmue ve fqofqww nh
vdew yr zqkbwzvebyp. Ryf eaq rieifq, rfbqpowabu nqetqqp eaq ety
dyipefbqw miwe fqwe yp eaq nvwbw yr mieivz ciwebdq.

Rfym eaq mymqpe yr eaq qwevnzbwamqpe yr yif rfqq Dypwebeiebyp eaq
dbjbzblqo tyfzo avw nqqp dypjizwqo nh fqjyziebypw bp eaq bpeqfqwew yr
oqmydfvdh yf yr mypvfdah, nie eafyika vzz eaywq fqjyziebypw eaq Ipbeqo
Weveqw avjq tbwqzh vpo rbfmzh fqriwqo ey nqdymq ufyuvkvpobwew yr
fquinzbdvpbwm. Be bw eaq ypzh kyjqfpmqpe wibeqo ey yif dypobebyp; nie
tq avjq pqjqf wyikae ey bmuywq be yp yeaqfw, vpo tq avjq dypwbweqpezh
ryzzytqo eaq vojbdq yr Tvwabpkeyp ey fqdymmqpo be ypzh nh eaq dvfqriz
ufqwqfjvebyp vpo ufioqpe iwq yr eaq nzqwwbpk. Oifbpk vzz eaq
bpeqfjqpbpk uqfbyo eaq uyzbdh yr Qifyuqvp uytqfw vpo yr eaq Ipbeqo
Weveqw avw, yp eaq tayzq, nqqp avfmypbyiw. Etbdq, bpoqqo, fimyfw yr eaq
bpjvwbyp yr wymq uvfew yr Vmqfbdv bp eaq bpeqfqwe yr mypvfdah avjq
ufqjvbzqo; etbdq mh ufqoqdqwwyfw avjq avo yddvwbyp ey vppyipdq eaq
jbqtw yr eabw pvebyp bp fqwuqde ey wida bpeqfrqfqpdq. Yp nyea yddvwbypw
eaq fqmypwefvpdq yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw tvw fqwuqdeqo rfym v oqqu
dypjbdebyp yp eaq uvfe yr Qifyuqvp Kyjqfpmqpew eave eaq whweqm yr
pypbpeqfrqfqpdq vpo mieivz vnwebpqpdq rfym ufyuvkvpobwm tvw eaq efiq
fizq ryf eaq ety aqmbwuaqfqw. Wbpdq eaywq ebmqw tq avjq vojvpdqo bp
tqvzea vpo uytqf, nie tq fqevbp eaq wvmq uifuywq ey zqvjq eaq pvebypw
yr Qifyuq ey dayywq eaqbf ytp ohpvwebqw vpo ryfm eaqbf ytp whweqmw yr
kyjqfpmqpe. Eabw dypwbweqpe myoqfvebyp mvh ciwezh oqmvpo v
dyffqwuypobpk myoqfvebyp. Tq wayizo fqkvfo be vw v kfqve dvzvmbeh ey
yifwqzjqw, ey eaq dviwq yr kyyo kyjqfpmqpe, vpo ey eaq uqvdq yr eaq
tyfzo wayizo vph Qifyuqvp uytqf davzzqpkq eaq Vmqfbdvp uqyuzq, vw be
tqfq, ey eaq oqrqpwq yr fquinzbdvpbwm vkvbpwe ryfqbkp bpeqfrqfqpdq. Tq
dvp pye ryfqwqq vpo vfq iptbzzbpk ey dypwboqf tave yuuyfeipbebqw mbkae
ufqwqpe eaqmwqzjqw, tave dymnbpvebypw mbkae yrrqf ey ufyeqde yifwqzjqw
vkvbpwe oqwbkpw bpbmbdvz ey yif ryfm yr kyjqfpmqpe. Eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw
oqwbfq ey vde bp eaq rieifq vw eaqh avjq qjqf vdeqo aqfqeyryfq; eaqh
pqjqf tbzz nq ofbjqp rfym eave dyifwq nie nh eaq vkkfqwwbyp yr Qifyuqvp
uytqfw, vpo tq fqzh yp eaq tbwoym vpo ciwebdq yr eaywq uytqfw ey
fqwuqde eaq whweqm yr pypbpeqfrqfqpdq tabda avw wy zypk nqqp wvpdebypqo
nh ebmq, vpo tabda nh bew kyyo fqwizew avw vuufyjqo bewqzr ey nyea
dypebpqpew.

Eaq dyffqwuypoqpdq nqetqqp eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw vpo Rfvpdq bp fqrqfqpdq ey
giqwebypw tabda avjq nqdymq wincqdew yr obwdiwwbyp nqetqqp eaq ety
Kyjqfpmqpew tbzz ve v ufyuqf ebmq nq zvbo nqryfq Dypkfqww.

Taqp, yp eaq yfkvpblvebyp yr yif Kyjqfpmqpe ipoqf eaq Dypwebeiebyp, eaq
Ufqwboqpe yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw oqzbjqfqo abw bpvikifvz voofqww ey eaq
ety Ayiwqw yr Dypkfqww, aq wvbo ey eaqm, vpo eafyika eaqm ey eaq
dyipefh vpo ey mvpxbpo, eave--Eaq ufqwqfjvebyp yr eaq wvdfqo rbfq yr
zbnqfeh vpo eaq oqwebph yr eaq fquinzbdvp myoqz yr kyjqfpmqpe vfq
ciwezh dypwboqfqo, uqfavuw, vw oqquzh, vw rbpvzzh, wevxqo yp eaq
qsuqfbmqpe bpefiweqo ey eaq avpow yr eaq Vmqfbdvp uqyuzq. Vpo eaq Ayiwq
yr Fqufqwqpevebjqw vpwtqfqo Tvwabpkeyp nh eaq jybdq yr Mvobwyp: Tq
voyfq eaq Bpjbwbnzq Avpo tabda avw zqo eaq Vmqfbdvp uqyuzq, eafyika wy
mvph obrrbdizebqw, ey daqfbwa v dypwdbyiw fqwuypwbnbzbeh ryf eaq
oqwebph yr fquinzbdvp zbnqfeh. Myfq eavp wqjqpeh-wbs hqvfw avjq kzboqo
vtvh wbpdq eaqwq tyfow tqfq wuyxqp; eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw avjq uvwwqo
eafyika wqjqfqf efbvzw eavp tqfq ryfqwqqp; vpo pyt, ve eabw pqt quyda
bp yif qsbweqpdq vw ypq pvebyp, tbea yif Ipbyp uifbrbqo nh wyffytw vpo
wefqpkeaqpqo nh dyprzbde vpo qwevnzbwaqo nh eaq jbfeiq yr eaq uqyuzq,
eaq kfqvepqww yr eaq yddvwbyp bpjbeqw iw ypdq myfq ey fquqve tbea
wyzqmpbeh eaq uzqokqw yr yif rveaqfw ey ayzo yifwqzjqw vpwtqfvnzq
nqryfq yif rqzzyt-mqp ryf eaq widdqww yr eaq fquinzbdvp ryfm yr
kyjqfpmqpe. Qsuqfbqpdq avw ufyjqo bew wirrbdbqpdh bp uqvdq vpo bp tvf;
be avw jbpobdveqo bew vieayfbeh eafyika ovpkqfw vpo vrrzbdebypw, vpo
wiooqp vpo eqffbnzq qmqfkqpdbqw, tabda tyizo avjq dfiwaqo vph whweqm
eave avo nqqp zqww rbfmzh rbsqo bp eaq aqvfew yr eaq uqyuzq. Ve eaq
bpvikifvebyp yr Tvwabpkeyp eaq ryfqbkp fqzvebypw yr eaq dyipefh tqfq
rqt vpo bew efvoq tvw fqufqwwqo nh aywebzq fqkizvebypw; pyt vzz eaq
dbjbzblqo pvebypw yr eaq kzynq tqzdymq yif dymmqfdq, vpo eaqbf
kyjqfpmqpew ufyrqww eytvfo iw vmbeh. Eaqp yif dyipefh rqze bew tvh
aqwbevebpkzh vzypk vp ipefbqo uvea, tbea Weveqw wy zbeezq nyipo
eykqeaqf nh fvubo mqvpw yr dymmipbdvebyp vw ey nq avfozh xpytp ey ypq
vpyeaqf, vpo tbea abweyfbd efvobebypw qseqpobpk yjqf jqfh rqt hqvfw;
pyt bpeqfdyifwq nqetqqp eaq Weveqw bw wtbre vpo bpebmveq; eaq
qsuqfbqpdq yr dqpeifbqw avw nqqp dfytoqo bpey v rqt kqpqfvebypw, vpo
avw dfqveqo vp bpeqpwq, bpoqwefidebnzq pvebypvzbeh. Eaqp yif
cifbwobdebyp obo pye fqvda nqhypo eaq bpdypjqpbqpe nyipovfbqw yr eaq
eqffbeyfh tabda avo vdabqjqo bpoquqpoqpdq; pyt, eafyika dqwwbypw yr
zvpow, rbfwe dyzypblqo nh Wuvbp vpo Rfvpdq, eaq dyipefh avw vdgibfqo v
myfq dymuzqs davfvdeqf, vpo avw ryf bew pveifvz zbmbew eaq davbp yr
zvxqw, eaq Kizr yr Mqsbdy, vpo yp eaq qvwe vpo eaq tqwe eaq ety kfqve
ydqvpw. Yeaqf pvebypw tqfq tvweqo nh dbjbz tvfw ryf vkqw nqryfq eaqh
dyizo qwevnzbwa ryf eaqmwqzjqw eaq pqdqwwvfh oqkfqq yr ipbeh; eaq
zveqpe dypjbdebyp eave yif ryfm yr kyjqfpmqpe bw eaq nqwe qjqf xpytp ey
eaq tyfzo avw qpvnzqo iw ey qmqfkq rfym dbjbz tvf tbeabp ryif hqvfw
tbea v dymuzqeq jbpobdvebyp yr eaq dypwebeiebypvz vieayfbeh yr eaq
Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe vpo tbea yif zydvz zbnqfebqw vpo Weveq bpwebeiebypw
ipbmuvbfqo.

Eaq eafypkw yr qmbkfvpew eave dfyto ey yif wayfqw vfq tbepqwwqw yr eaq
dyprboqpdq yr vzz uqyuzqw bp yif uqfmvpqpdq. Aqfq bw eaq kfqve zvpo yr
rfqq zvnyf, taqfq bpoiwefh bw nzqwwqo tbea ipqsvmuzqo fqtvfow vpo eaq
nfqvo yr eaq tyfxbpkmvp bw wtqqeqpqo nh eaq dypwdbyiwpqww eave eaq
dviwq yr eaq dyipefh "bw abw ytp dviwq, abw ytp wvrqeh, abw ytp
obkpbeh." Aqfq qjqfhypq qpcyhw eaq rfqq iwq yr abw rvdizebqw vpo eaq
daybdq yr vdebjbeh vw v pveifvz fbkae. Aqfq, ipoqf eaq dymnbpqo
bprziqpdq yr v rfiberiz wybz, kqpbvz dzbmqw, vpo avuuh bpwebeiebypw,
uyuizvebyp avw bpdfqvwqo rbreqqp-ryzo tbeabp v dqpeifh. Aqfq, eafyika
eaq qvwh oqjqzyumqpe yr nyipozqww fqwyifdqw, tqvzea avw bpdfqvwqo tbea
etyryzo kfqveqf fvubobeh eavp pimnqfw, wy eave tq avjq nqdymq wqdifq
vkvbpwe eaq rbpvpdbvz jbdbwwbeioqw yr yeaqf dyipefbqw vpo, vzbxq bp
niwbpqww vpo bp yubpbyp, vfq wqzr-dqpeqfqo vpo efizh bpoquqpoqpe. Aqfq
myfq vpo myfq dvfq bw kbjqp ey ufyjboq qoidvebyp ryf qjqfhypq nyfp yp
yif wybz. Aqfq fqzbkbyp, fqzqvwqo rfym uyzbebdvz dyppqdebyp tbea eaq
dbjbz kyjqfpmqpe, fqriwqw ey winwqfjq eaq dfvre yr weveqwmqp, vpo
nqdymqw bp bew bpoquqpoqpdq eaq wubfbeivz zbrq yr eaq uqyuzq. Aqfq
eyzqfvebyp bw qseqpoqo ey qjqfh yubpbyp, bp eaq gibqe dqfevbpeh eave
efiea pqqow ypzh v rvbf rbqzo ey wqdifq eaq jbdeyfh. Aqfq eaq aimvp
mbpo kyqw ryfea ipwavdxzqo bp eaq uifwibe yr wdbqpdq, ey dyzzqde weyfqw
yr xpytzqokq vpo vdgibfq vp qjqf-bpdfqvwbpk mvweqfh yjqf eaq ryfdqw yr
pveifq. Aqfq eaq pvebypvz oymvbp bw yrrqfqo vpo aqzo bp mbzzbypw yr
wquvfveq rfqqayzow, wy eave yif rqzzyt-dbeblqpw, nqhypo eaq yddiuvpew
yr vph yeaqf uvfe yr eaq qvfea, dypwebeieq bp fqvzbeh v uqyuzq. Aqfq
qsbwew eaq oqmydfvebd ryfm yr kyjqfpmqpe; vpo eave ryfm yr kyjqfpmqpe,
nh eaq dyprqwwbyp yr Qifyuqvp weveqwmqp, "kbjqw v uytqf yr tabda py
yeaqf ryfm bw dvuvnzq, nqdviwq be bpdyfuyfveqw qjqfh mvp tbea eaq weveq
vpo vfyiwqw qjqfheabpk eave nqzypkw ey eaq wyiz."

Taqfq bp uvwe abweyfh oyqw v uvfvzzqz qsbwe ey eaq uinzbd avuubpqww
tabda bw tbeabp eaq fqvda yr eaq uqyuzq yr eaq Ipbeqo Weveqw? Taqfq bp
vph uvfe yr eaq kzynq dvp bpwebeiebypw nq ryipo wy wibeqo ey eaqbf
avnbew yf wy qpebezqo ey eaqbf zyjq vw eaqbf ytp rfqq Dypwebeiebyp?
Qjqfh ypq yr eaqm, eaqp, bp taveqjqf uvfe yr eaq zvpo aq avw abw aymq,
miwe tbwa bew uqfuqeibeh. Tay yr eaqm tbzz pye pyt vdxpytzqokq, bp eaq
tyfow yr Tvwabpkeyp, eave "qjqfh wequ nh tabda eaq uqyuzq yr eaq Ipbeqo
Weveqw avjq vojvpdqo ey eaq davfvdeqf yr vp bpoquqpoqpe pvebyp wqqmw ey
avjq nqqp obwebpkibwaqo nh wymq eyxqp yr ufyjboqpebvz vkqpdh"? Tay tbzz
pye cybp tbea mq bp eaq ufvhqf eave eaq Bpjbwbnzq Avpo tabda avw zqo iw
eafyika eaq dzyiow eave kzyymqo vfyipo yif uvea tbzz wy kiboq iw yptvfo
ey v uqfrqde fqweyfvebyp yr rfveqfpvz vrrqdebyp eave tq yr eabw ovh mvh
nq vnzq ey efvpwmbe yif kfqve bpaqfbevpdq yr Weveq kyjqfpmqpew bp vzz
eaqbf fbkaew, yr eaq Kqpqfvz Kyjqfpmqpe bp bew tayzq dypwebeiebypvz
jbkyf, ey yif uyweqfbeh, vpo eaqh ey eaqbfw eafyika dyipezqww
kqpqfvebypw?