Kw. Fczaxzw, Kw. Uqtz Cwzfqnzjr, nqfrqjsbqfozn Kzkpzwf my roz Tmjswzff:

Q foawz eqro aii my lmb roz swqzy roar lmb yzzi ar roz nzaro rmnal my mjz
my roz kmfr pzimuzn, wzfcztrzn, ajn zyyztrquz Kzkpzwf my roqf pmnl, roz
nqfrqjsbqfozn Wzcwzfzjrarquz ywmk Womnz Qfiajn, Kw. Ymsawrl.

Q oauz tmkz ozwz rmjqsor rm wzcmwr rm lmb roar roqf qf a rqkz my rzfrqjs
ymw mbw Jarqmj.

Ar omkz, roz vbzfrqmj qf eozrozw ez eqii tmjrqjbz emwxqjs ymw pzrrzw
mccmwrbjqrqzf ymw aii Akzwqtajf, eozj kmfr Akzwqtajf awz aiwzanl iquqjs
pzrrzw roaj ajl czmciz qj oqfrmwl.

Apwman, roz vbzfrqmj qf eozrozw ez oauz roz fralqjs cmezw rm yqsor a uzwl
tmfril eaw, eozj roz mphztrquz qf iqkqrzn ajn roz najszw rm bf qf fzzkqjsil
wzkmrz.

Fm mbw rzfr qf jmr eozrozw ez fowqjx ywmk mbw tmbjrwl'f tabfz eozj roz
najszwf rm bf awz mpuqmbf ajn nmfz ar oajn, pbr, warozw, eozrozw ez tawwl
mj eozj rozl fzzk mpftbwz ajn nqfrajr--ajn fmkz roqjx roar qr qf fayz rm
ial nmej mbw pbwnzjf.

Q oauz tmkz rmjqsor rm afx roqf Tmjswzff ajn roqf Jarqmj rm wzfmiuz roar
qffbz: rm kzzr mbw tmkkqrkzjrf ar omkz ajn apwman--rm tmjrqjbz rm pbqin a
pzrrzw Akzwqta--ajn rm wzayyqwk roqf Jarqmj'f aiizsqajtz rm ywzznmk.

Af Cwzfqnzjr Apwaoak Iqjtmij faqn, "Ez kbfr afx eozwz ez awz, ajn eoqrozw
ez awz rzjnqjs." Q.

Roz iafr 3 lzawf pzaw eqrjzff rm mbw nzrzwkqjarqmj rm kaxz roqf a pzrrzw
tmbjrwl.

Ez oauz frwbtx nmej izsai pawwqzwf rm zvbaiqrl.

Ez oauz qkcwmuzn roz znbtarqmj my 7 kqiiqmj nzcwquzn toqinwzj ajn roqf lzaw
aimjz ez oauz zjapizn aikmfr 1 kqiiqmj frbnzjrf rm sm rm tmiizsz.

Ez oauz pwmbsor kznqtai tawz rm minzw czmciz eom ezwz bjapiz rm ayymwn qr.
Rowzz ajn mjz-oaiy kqiiqmj Akzwqtajf oauz aiwzanl wztzquzn rwzarkzjr bjnzw
Kznqtawz fqjtz Hbil.

Ez oauz pbqir a frwmjs ztmjmkl roar oaf cbr aikmfr 3 kqiiqmj kmwz Akzwqtajf
mj roz calwmiif qj roz iafr lzaw aimjz.

Ez oauz qjtibnzn kmwz roaj 9 kqiiqmj jze emwxzwf bjnzw a oqsozw kqjqkbk
easz.

Ez oauz iabjtozn jze rwaqjqjs cwmswakf rm cwmuqnz hmp fxqiif ymw aikmfr 1
kqiiqmj Akzwqtajf.

Ez oauz oziczn kmwz roaj a rombfajn imtai tmkkbjqrqzf rm arratx cmuzwrl qj
roz jzqsopmwommnf my roz cmmw. Ez oauz fzr mbr rm wzpbqin mbw tqrqzf mj a
ftaiz roar oaf jzuzw pzzj arrzkcrzn pzymwz. Ez oauz pzsbj rm wzftbz mbw
earzwf ywmk roz kzjatz my cmiibrqmj ajn rm wzfrmwz roz pzabrl my mbw iajn
ajn mbw tmbjrwlfqnz, mbw tqrqzf ajn mbw rmejf.

Ez oauz squzj 1 kqiiqmj lmbjs Akzwqtajf a toajtz rm zawj rowmbso roz
Jzqsopmwommn Lmbro Tmwcf--mw rowmbso Ozan Frawr, a toajtz rm izawj.

Fm rmszrozw ez oauz rwqzn rm kzzr roz jzznf my mbw czmciz. Ajn, ez oauz
fbttzznzn qj twzarqjs a pzrrzw iqyz ymw roz kajl af ezii af roz yze. Jme ez
kbfr ajfezw eozrozw mbw saqjf foaii pz roz ymbjnarqmjf my ybwrozw cwmswzff,
mw eozrozw rozl foaii pz mjil kmjbkzjrf rm eoar kqsor oauz pzzj--apajnmjzn
jme pl a czmciz eom iatxzn roz eqii rm fzz rozqw swzar emwx rowmbso.

Q pziqzuz roar mbw czmciz nm jmr eajr rm vbqr--rombso roz rafx qf swzar,
roz emwx oawn, myrzj ywbfrwarqjs, ajn fbttzff qf a karrzw jmr my nalf mw
kmjrof, pbr my lzawf--ajn fmkzrqkzf qr kal pz zuzj nztanzf. QQ.

Q oauz tmkz ozwz rmjqsor rm nqftbff eqro lmb yquz ealf my tawwlqjs ymweawn
roz cwmswzff my rozfz iafr 3 lzawf. Rozfz yquz ealf tmjtzwj cwmswakf,
cawrjzwfoqcf, cwqmwqrqzf, cwmfczwqrl, ajn czatz.

Yqwfr, cwmswakf. Ez kbfr fzz rm qr, Q roqjx, roar rozfz jze cwmswakf roar
ez oauz caffzn emwx zyyztrquzil ajn awz ankqjqfrzwzn qj roz pzfr cmffqpiz
eal.

Rowzz lzawf asm ez fzr mbr rm twzarz rozfz jze qjfrwbkzjrf my fmtqai
cwmswzff. Roqf wzvbqwzn rwqai ajn zwwmw--ajn qr oaf cwmnbtzn pmro. Pbr af
ez izawj, rowmbso fbttzff ajn yaqibwz, ez awz toajsqjs mbw frwarzsl ajn ez
awz rwlqjs rm qkcwmuz mbw ratrqtf. Qj roz imjs wbj, rozfz frawrf--fmkz
wzeawnqjs, mrozwf qjanzvbarz ajn nqfaccmqjrqjs--awz twbtqai rm FBTTZFF.

Mjz zdakciz qf roz frwbssiz rm kaxz iqyz pzrrzw ymw roz izff ymwrbjarz
akmjs bf.

Mj a fqkqiaw mttafqmj, ar roqf wmfrwbk qj 1949, Q ozawn a swzar Akzwqtaj
Cwzfqnzjr, Oawwl F. Rwbkaj, nztiawz roqf: "Roz Akzwqtaj czmciz oauz nztqnzn
roar cmuzwrl qf hbfr af eafrzybi ajn hbfr af bjjztzffawl af cwzuzjrapiz
nqfzafz."

Kajl iqfrzjzn rm Cwzfqnzjr Rwbkaj roar nal ozwz qj roqf Toakpzw, pbr yze
bjnzwfrmmn eoar eaf wzvbqwzn ajn nqn ajlroqjs apmbr qr. Roz zdztbrquz
pwajto ajn roz Tmjswzff eaqrzn 15 imjs lzawf pzymwz zuzw raxqjs ajl atrqmj
mj roar toaiizjsz, af qr nqn mj kajl mrozw toaiizjszf roar swzar Cwzfqnzjr
cwzfzjrzn. Ajn eozj, 3 lzawf asm, lmb ozwz qj roz Tmjswzff hmqjzn eqro kz
qj a nztiawarqmj my eaw mj cmuzwrl, rozj Q eawjzn, "Qr eqii jmr pz a fomwr
mw zafl frwbssiz--jm fqjsiz ezacmj... eqii fbyyqtz--pbr ez foaii jmr wzfr
bjrqi roar eaw qf emj."

Ajn Q oauz tmkz ozwz rm wzjze roar ciznsz rmjqsor.

Q wztmkkzjn roar ez qjrzjfqyl mbw zyymwrf rm squz roz cmmw a toajtz rm
zjhml ajn rm hmqj qj roqf Jarqmj'f cwmswzff.

Q foaii cwmcmfz tzwraqj ankqjqfrwarquz toajszf fbsszfrzn pl roz
Tmjswzff--af ezii af fmkz roar ez oauz izawjzn ywmk mbw mej rwqai ajn
zwwmw.

Q foaii bwsz fcztqai kzromnf ajn fcztqai ybjnf rm wzato roz objnwznf my
rombfajnf my Akzwqtajf roar awz jme rwacczn qj roz sozrrmf my mbw pqs
tqrqzf ajn, rowmbso Ozan Frawr, rm rwl rm wzato mbr rm mbw uzwl lmbjs,
iqrriz toqinwzj. Roz toajtz rm izawj qf rozqw pwqsorzfr omcz ajn kbfr
tmkkajn mbw ybii nzrzwkqjarqmj. Ymw izawjqjs pwqjsf fxqiif; ajn fxqiif
pwqjs hmpf; ajn hmpf pwqjs wzfcmjfqpqiqrl ajn nqsjqrl, af ezii af radzf.

Roqf eaw--iqxz roz eaw qj Uqzrjak--qf jmr a fqkciz mjz. Rozwz qf jm fqjsiz
parriz-iqjz eoqto lmb taj cimr zato nal mj a toawr. Roz zjzkl qf jmr zafl rm
czwtzquz, mw rm qfmiarz, mw rm nzfrwml. Rozwz awz kqfraxzf ajn rozwz awz
fzrpatxf. Pbr ez awz kmuqjs, ajn mbw nqwztrqmj qf ymweawn.

Roqf qf rwbz eqro mrozw cwmswakf roar awz kaxqjs ajn pwzaxqjs jze swmbjn.
Fmkz nm jmr lzr oauz roz tacatqrl rm apfmwp ezii mw eqfzil aii roz kmjzl
roar tmbin pz cbr qjrm rozk. Ankqjqfrwarquz fxqiif ajn rwaqjzn kajcmezw awz
hbfr af uqrai rm rozqw fbttzff af nmiiawf. Ajn Q pziqzuz romfz fxqiif eqii
tmkz. Pbr qr eqii raxz rqkz ajn carqzjtz ajn oawn emwx. Fbttzff tajjmr pz
ymwtzn ar a fqjsiz frwmxz. Fm ez kbfr tmjrqjbz rm frwzjsrozj roz
ankqjqfrwarqmj my zuzwl cwmswak qy roar fbttzff qf rm tmkz--af ez xjme qr
kbfr.

Ez oauz nmjz kbto qj roz fcatz my 2 fomwr lzawf, emwxqjs rmszrozw.

Q oauz wztmkkzjnzn, ajn lmb, roz Tmjswzff, oauz accwmuzn, 10 nqyyzwzjr
wzmwsajqgarqmj ciajf, tmkpqjqjs ajn tmjfmiqnarqjs kajl pbwzabf my roqf
Smuzwjkzjr, ajn twzarqjs rem zjrqwzil jze Tapqjzr nzcawrkzjrf.

Q oauz tmkz rmjqsor rm cwmcmfz roar ez zfrapiqfo a jze nzcawrkzjr--a
Nzcawrkzjr my Pbfqjzff ajn Iapmw.

Pl tmkpqjqjs roz Nzcawrkzjr my Tmkkzwtz eqro roz Nzcawrkzjr my Iapmw ajn
mrozw wziarzn aszjtqzf, Q roqjx ez taj twzarz a kmwz ztmjmkqtai, zyyqtqzjr,
ajn frwzakiqjzn qjfrwbkzjr roar eqii pzrrzw fzwuz a swmeqjs jarqmj.

Roqf qf mbw smai rowmbsombr roz zjrqwz Yznzwai Smuzwjkzjr. Zuzwl cwmswak
eqii pz romwmbsoil zuaibarzn. Swajr-qj-aqn cwmswakf eqii pz qkcwmuzn ajn
fqkciqyqzn af nzfqwzn pl kajl my mbw imtai ankqjqfrwarmwf ajn mbw
Smuzwjmwf.

Eozwz rozwz oauz pzzj kqfraxzf, ez eqii rwl uzwl oawn rm tmwwztr rozk.

Eozwz rozwz oaf pzzj cwmswzff, ez eqii rwl rm pbqin bcmj qr.

Mbw fztmjn mphztrquz qf cawrjzwfoqc--rm twzarz aj zyyztrquz cawrjzwfoqc ar
aii izuzif my smuzwjkzjr. Ajn Q fombin rwzafbwz jmroqjs kmwz roaj rm oauz
roar cawrjzwfoqc pzsqj pzrezzj roz zdztbrquz ajn roz Tmjswzff.

Roz 88ro ajn roz 89ro Tmjswzffzf caffzn kmwz fmtqai ajn ztmjmkqt
izsqfiarqmj roaj ajl rem fqjsiz Tmjswzffzf qj Akzwqtaj oqfrmwl. Kmfr my lmb
eom ezwz Kzkpzwf my romfz Tmjswzffzf umrzn rm caff kmfr my romfz kzafbwzf.
Pbr lmbw zyymwrf eqii tmkz rm jmroqjs bjizff qr wzatozf roz czmciz.

Yznzwai zjzwsl qf zffzjrqai. Pbr qr qf jmr zjmbso. Mjil a rmrai emwxqjs
cawrjzwfoqc akmjs Yznzwai, Frarz, ajn imtai smuzwjkzjrf taj fbttzzn. Roz
rzfr my roar cawrjzwfoqc eqii pz roz tmjtzwj my zato cbpiqt mwsajqgarqmj,
zato cwquarz qjfrqrbrqmj, ajn zato wzfcmjfqpiz tqrqgzj.

Zato Frarz, tmbjrl, ajn tqrl jzznf rm zdakqjz qrf tacatqrl ymw smuzwjkzjr
qj rmnal'f emwin, af ez awz zdakqjqjs mbwf qj roz zdztbrquz nzcawrkzjr, ajn
af Q fzz lmb awz zdakqjqjs lmbwf. Fmkz eqii jzzn rm wzmwsajqgz ajn wzfoacz
rozqw kzromnf my ankqjqfrwarqmj--af ez awz nmqjs. Mrozwf eqii jzzn rm wzuqfz
rozqw tmjfrqrbrqmjf ajn rozqw iaef rm pwqjs rozk bc rm narz--af ez awz
nmqjs. Apmuz aii, Q roqjx ez kbfr emwx rmszrozw ajn yqjn ealf qj eoqto roz
kbirqrbnzf my fkaii hbwqfnqtrqmjf taj pz pwmbsor rmszrozw kmwz
zyyqtqzjril.

Nbwqjs roz cafr 3 lzawf ez oauz wzrbwjzn rm Frarz ajn imtai smuzwjkzjrf
apmbr $40 pqiiqmj qj swajrf-qj-aqn. Roqf lzaw aimjz, 70 czwtzjr my mbw
Yznzwai zdczjnqrbwzf ymw nmkzfrqt cwmswakf eqii pz nqfrwqpbrzn rowmbso roz
Frarz ajn imtai smuzwjkzjrf. Eqro Yznzwai affqfrajtz, Frarz ajn imtai
smuzwjkzjrf pl 1970 eqii pz fczjnqjs timfz rm $110 pqiiqmj ajjbaiil. Rozfz
zjmwkmbf fbkf kbfr pz bfzn eqfzil, omjzfril, ajn zyyztrquzil. Ez qjrzjn rm
emwx timfzil eqro roz Frarzf ajn roz imtaiqrqzf rm nm zdatril roar.

Mbw roqwn mphztrquz qf cwqmwqrqzf, rm kmuz aozan mj roz cwqmwqrqzf roar ez
oauz zfrapiqfozn eqroqj roz wzfmbwtzf roar awz auaqiapiz.

Q eqfo, my tmbwfz, roar ez tmbin nm aii roar fombin pz nmjz--ajn roar ez
tmbin nm qr jme. Pbr roz Jarqmj oaf kajl tmkkqrkzjrf ajn wzfcmjfqpqiqrqzf
eoqto kaxz ozaul nzkajnf bcmj mbw rmrai wzfmbwtzf. Jm ankqjqfrwarqmj embin
kmwz zaszwil brqiqgz ymw rozfz cwmswakf aii roz wzfmbwtzf rozl wzvbqwz roaj
roz ankqjqfrwarqmj roar frawrzn rozk.

Fm izr bf wzfmiuz, jme, rm nm aii roar ez taj, eqro eoar ez oauz--xjmeqjs
roar qr qf yaw, yaw kmwz roaj ez oauz zuzw nmjz pzymwz, ajn yaw, yaw izff
roaj mbw cwmpizkf eqii birqkarzil wzvbqwz.

Izr bf twzarz jze mccmwrbjqrqzf ymw mbw toqinwzj ajn mbw lmbjs Akzwqtajf
eom jzzn fcztqai ozic.

Ez fombin frwzjsrozj roz Ozan Frawr cwmswak, pzsqj qr ymw toqinwzj 3 lzawf
min, ajn kaqjraqj qrf znbtarqmjai kmkzjrbk pl ymiimeqjs rowmbso qj roz
zawil lzawf.

Ez fombin rwl jze kzromnf my toqin nzuzimckzjr ajn tawz ywmk roz zawiqzfr
lzawf, pzymwz qr qf rmm iarz rm tmwwztr.

Ajn Q eqii cwmcmfz rozfz kzafbwzf rm roz 90ro Tmjswzff.

Izr bf qjfbwz roar minzw Akzwqtajf, ajn jzsiztrzn Akzwqtajf, foawz qj rozqw
Jarqmj'f cwmswzff.

Ez fombin waqfz fmtqai fztbwqrl calkzjrf pl aj muzwaii auzwasz my 20
czwtzjr. Roar eqii ann $4 pqiiqmj 100 kqiiqmj rm fmtqai fztbwqrl calkzjrf
qj roz yqwfr lzaw. Q eqii wztmkkzjn roar zato my roz 23 kqiiqmj Akzwqtajf
jme wztzquqjs calkzjrf szr aj qjtwzafz my ar izafr 15 czwtzjr.

Q eqii afx roar lmb waqfz roz kqjqkbk calkzjrf pl 59 czwtzjr--ywmk $44 rm
$70 a kmjro, ajn rm sbawajrzz a kqjqkbk pzjzyqr my $100 a kmjro ymw romfz
eqro a rmrai my 25 lzawf my tmuzwasz. Ez kbfr waqfz roz iqkqrf roar wzrqwzn
emwxzwf taj zawj eqrombr imfqjs fmtqai fztbwqrl qjtmkz.

Ez kbfr ziqkqjarz pl iae bjhbfr nqftwqkqjarqmj qj zkcimlkzjr pztabfz my
asz.

Ez fombin zkpawx bcmj a kahmw zyymwr rm cwmuqnz fziy-ozic affqfrajtz rm roz
ymwsmrrzj qj mbw kqnfr--roz Akzwqtaj Qjnqajf ajn roz kqswarmwl yawk
emwxzwf. Ajn ez fombin wzato eqro roz oajn my bjnzwfrajnqjs rm ozic romfz
eom iquz qj wbwai cmuzwrl.

Ajn Q eqii cwmcmfz rozfz kzafbwzf rm roz 90ro Tmjswzff.

Fm izr bf xzzc mj qkcwmuqjs roz vbaiqrl my iqyz ajn zjiawsqjs roz kzajqjs
my hbfrqtz ymw aii my mbw yziime Akzwqtajf.

Ez fombin rwajfymwk mbw nztalqjs fibkf qjrm ciatzf my nztzjtl rowmbso roz
iajnkawx Kmnzi Tqrqzf cwmswak. Q qjrzjn rm fzzx ymw roqf zyymwr, roqf lzaw,
roz ybii akmbjr roar lmb qj Tmjswzff abromwqgzn iafr lzaw.

Ez fombin taii bcmj roz szjqbf my cwquarz qjnbfrwl ajn roz kmfr anuajtzn
rztojmimsl rm ozic wzpbqin mbw swzar tqrqzf.

Ez fombin uafril zdcajn roz yqsor ymw nzaj aqw eqro a rmrai arratx mj
cmiibrqmj ar qrf fmbwtzf, ajn--pztabfz aqw, iqxz earzw, nmzf jmr wzfcztr
kajkanz pmbjnawqzf--ez fombin fzr bc "wzsqmjai aqwfoznf" rowmbsombr roqf
swzar iajn.

Ez fombin tmjrqjbz rm tawwl rm zuzwl tmwjzw my roz Jarqmj mbw takcaqsj ymw
a pzabrqybi Akzwqta--rm nzaj bc mbw rmejf, rm kaxz rozk kmwz pzabrqybi, mbw
tqrqzf, mbw tmbjrwlfqnz, pl twzarqjs kmwz cawxf, ajn kmwz fzafomwzf, ajn
kmwz mczj fcatzf ymw mbw toqinwzj rm cial qj, ajn ymw roz szjzwarqmjf roar
tmkz ayrzw bf rm zjhml.

Ez fombin tmjrqjbz rm fzzx zvbaiqrl ajn hbfrqtz ymw zato tqrqgzj--pzymwz a
hbwl, qj fzzxqjs a hmp, qj zdzwtqfqjs oqf tquqi wqsorf. Ez fombin yqjn a
fmibrqmj rm yaqw ombfqjs, fm roar zuzwl Akzwqtaj, wzsawnizff my tmimw, oaf
a nztzjr omkz my oqf tomqtz.

Ez fombin kmnzwjqgz mbw Fziztrquz Fzwuqtz Flfrzk. Roz Jarqmjai Tmkkqffqmj
mj Fziztrquz Fzwuqtz eqii fomwril fbpkqr qrf wzcmwr. Q eqii fzjn lmb jze
wztmkkzjnarqmjf rm kzzr mbw kqiqrawl kajcmezw jzznf. Pbr izr bf wzfmiuz
roar roqf qf rm pz roz Tmjswzff roar kanz mbw nwayr iaef af yaqw ajn af
zyyztrquz af cmffqpiz.

Ez fombin cwmrztr eoar Hbfrqtz Pwajnzqf taiizn roz "wqsor kmfr uaibzn pl
tquqiqgzn kzj"--roz wqsor rm cwquatl. Ez fombin mbriae aii
eqwzraccqjs--cbpiqt ajn cwquarz--eozwzuzw ajn eozjzuzw qr mttbwf, zdtzcr
eozj roz fztbwqrl my roqf Jarqmj qrfziy qf ar fraxz--ajn mjil rozj eqro roz
frwqtrzfr smuzwjkzjrai fayzsbawnf. Ajn ez fombin zdzwtqfz roz ybii wzato my
mbw tmjfrqrbrqmjai cmezwf rm mbriae ziztrwmjqt "pbssqjs" ajn "fjmmcqjs."

Q omcz roqf Tmjswzff eqii rwl rm ozic kz nm kmwz ymw roz tmjfbkzw. Ez
fombin nzkajn roar roz tmfr my twznqr pz tizawil ajn omjzfril zdcwzffzn
eozwz auzwasz tqrqgzjf taj bjnzwfrajn qr. Ez fombin qkkznqarzil raxz frzcf
rm cwzuzjr kaffquz cmezw yaqibwzf, rm fayzsbawn roz omkz asaqjfr oagawnmbf
ombfzomin cwmnbtrf, ajn rm affbwz fayzrl qj roz cqcziqjzf roar tawwl
jarbwai saf atwmff mbw Jarqmj.

Ez fombin zdrzjn Kznqtawz pzjzyqrf roar awz jme nzjqzn rm 1,300,000
czwkajzjril ajn rmraiil nqfapizn Akzwqtajf bjnzw 65 lzawf my asz.

Ez fombin qkcwmuz roz cwmtzff my nzkmtwatl pl caffqjs mbw ziztrqmj wzymwk
ajn yqjajtqjs cwmcmfaif, pl rqsorzjqjs mbw iaef wzsbiarqjs impplqjs, ajn pl
wzfrmwqjs a wzafmjapiz ywajtoqfz rm Akzwqtajf eom kmuz rozqw wzfqnzjtzf.

Ez fombin nzuzimc znbtarqmjai rzizuqfqmj qjrm a uqrai cbpiqt wzfmbwtz rm
zjwqto mbw omkzf, znbtarz mbw yakqiqzf, ajn rm cwmuqnz affqfrajtz qj mbw
tiaffwmmkf. Ez fombin qjfqfr roar roz cbpiqt qjrzwzfr pz ybiil fzwuzn
rowmbso roz cbpiqt'f aqweauzf.

Ajn Q eqii cwmcmfz rozfz kzafbwzf rm roz 90ro Tmjswzff.

Jme ez tmkz rm a vbzfrqmj roar ezqsof uzwl ozauqil mj aii mbw kqjnf--mj
lmbwf ajn kqjz. Roqf Jarqmj kbfr kaxz aj aii-mbr zyymwr rm tmkpar twqkz.

Roz 89ro Tmjswzff sauz bf a jze frawr qj roz arratx mj twqkz pl caffqjs roz
Iae Zjymwtzkzjr Affqfrajtz Atr roar Q wztmkkzjnzn. Ez accmqjrzn roz
Jarqmjai Twqkz Tmkkqffqmj rm frbnl twqkz qj Akzwqta ajn rm wztmkkzjn roz
pzfr ealf rm tawwl roar arratx ymweawn.

Ajn eoqiz ez nm jmr oauz aii roz ajfezwf, mj roz pafqf my qrf cwziqkqjawl
wztmkkzjnarqmjf ez awz wzanl rm kmuz.

Roqf qf jmr a eaw roar Eafoqjsrmj aimjz taj eqj. Roz qnza my a jarqmjai
cmiqtz ymwtz qf wzcbsjajr rm roz Akzwqtaj czmciz. Twqkz kbfr pz wmmrzn mbr
qj imtai tmkkbjqrqzf pl imtai abromwqrqzf. Mbw cmiqtzkzj kbfr pz pzrrzw
rwaqjzn, kbfr pz pzrrzw caqn, ajn kbfr pz pzrrzw fbccmwrzn pl roz imtai
tqrqgzjf roar rozl rwl rm fzwuz ajn rm cwmrztr.

Roz Jarqmjai Smuzwjkzjr taj ajn zdcztrf rm ozic.

Ajn fm Q eqii wztmkkzjn rm roz 90ro Tmjswzff roz Fayz Frwzzrf ajn Twqkz
Tmjrwmi Atr my 1967. Qr eqii zjapiz bf rm affqfr romfz Frarzf ajn tqrqzf
roar rwl rm kaxz rozqw frwzzrf ajn omkzf fayzw, rozqw cmiqtz ymwtzf pzrrzw,
rozqw tmwwztrqmjf flfrzkf kmwz zyyztrquz, ajn rozqw tmbwrf kmwz zyyqtqzjr.

Eozj roz Tmjswzff accwmuzf, roz Yznzwai Smuzwjkzjr eqii pz apiz rm cwmuqnz
a fbpfrajrqai czwtzjrasz my roz tmfr:

--90 czwtzjr my roz tmfr my nzuzimcqjs roz Frarz ajn imtai ciajf, kafrzw
ciajf, rm tmkpar twqkz qj rozqw awza;

--60 czwtzjr my roz tmfr my rwaqjqjs jze ratrqtai bjqrf, nzuzimcqjs qjfrajr
tmkkbjqtarqmjf ajn fcztqai aiawk flfrzkf, ajn qjrwmnbtqjs roz iarzfr
zvbqckzjr ajn rztojqvbzf fm roar rozl taj pztmkz ezacmjf qj roz eaw mj
twqkz;

--50 czwtzjr my roz tmfr my pbqinqjs twqkz iapmwarmwqzf ajn cmiqtz
atanzkl-rlcz tzjrzwf fm roar mbw tqrqgzjf taj pz cwmrztrzn pl roz pzfr
rwaqjzn ajn fzwuzn pl roz pzfr zvbqcczn cmiqtz rm pz ymbjn ajleozwz. Ez
eqii aifm wztmkkzjn jze kzromnf rm cwzuzjr hbuzjqiz nziqjvbzjrf ywmk
pztmkqjs anbir nziqjvbzjrf. Ez eqii fzzx jze cawrjzwfoqcf eqro Frarzf ajn
tqrqzf qj mwnzw rm nzai eqro roqf oqnzmbf jawtmrqtf cwmpizk. Ajn ez eqii
wztmkkzjn frwqtr tmjrwmif mj roz faiz my yqwzawkf.

Ar roz ozawr my roqf arratx mj twqkz kbfr pz roz tmjuqtrqmj roar a ywzz
Akzwqta--af Apwaoak Iqjtmij mjtz faqn--kbfr "izr wzuzwzjtz ymw roz
iaef . . . pztmkz roz cmiqrqtai wziqsqmj my roz Jarqmj."

Mbw tmbjrwl'f iaef kbfr pz wzfcztrzn. Mwnzw kbfr pz kaqjraqjzn. Ajn Q eqii
fbccmwr--eqro aii roz tmjfrqrbrqmjai cmezwf roz Cwzfqnzjr cmffzffzf--mbw
Jarqmj'f iae zjymwtzkzjr myyqtqaif qj rozqw arrzkcr rm tmjrwmi roz twqkz
ajn roz uqmizjtz roar rzaw roz yapwqt my mbw tmkkbjqrqzf.

Kajl my rozfz cwqmwqrl cwmcmfaif eqii pz pbqir mj ymbjnarqmjf roar oauz
aiwzanl pzzj iaqn. Fmkz eqii jztzffawqil pz fkaii ar yqwfr, pbr "zuzwl
pzsqjjqjs qf a tmjfzvbzjtz." Qy ez cmfrcmjz roqf bwszjr emwx jme, qr eqii
fqkcil oauz rm pz nmjz iarzw, ajn iarzw ez eqii cal a kbto oqsozw cwqtz.

Mbw ymbwro mphztrquz qf cwmfczwqrl, rm xzzc mbw ztmjmkl kmuqjs aozan,
kmuqjs aozan frzanqil ajn fayzil.

Ez oauz jme zjhmlzn 6 lzawf my bjcwztznzjrzn ajn wzeawnqjs cwmfczwqrl. Iafr
lzaw, qj 1966:

--Easzf ezwz roz oqsozfr qj oqfrmwl--ajn roz bjzkcimlkzjr warz, ajjmbjtzn
lzfrzwnal, wzatozn roz imezfr cmqjr qj 13 lzawf;

--Rmrai ayrzw-rad qjtmkz my Akzwqtaj yakqiqzf wmfz jzawil 5 czwtzjr;

--Tmwcmwarz cwmyqrf ayrzw radzf wmfz a iqrriz kmwz roaj 5 czwtzjr;

--Mbw swmff jarqmjai cwmnbtr anuajtzn 5.5 czwtzjr, rm apmbr $740 pqiiqmj;

--Qjtmkz czw yawk ezjr bc 6 czwtzjr.

Jme ez oauz pzzj swzaril tmjtzwjzn pztabfz tmjfbkzw cwqtzf wmfz 4.5 czwtzjr
muzw roz 18 kmjrof fqjtz ez nztqnzn rm fzjn rwmmcf rm Uqzrjak. Roqf eaf
kmwz roaj ez oan zdcztrzn--ajn roz Smuzwjkzjr rwqzn rm nm zuzwlroqjs roar
ez xjze ome rm nm rm omin qr nmej. Lzr ez ezwz jmr af fbttzffybi af ez
eqfozn rm pz. Qj roz 18 kmjrof ayrzw ez zjrzwzn Emwin Eaw QQ, cwqtzf wmfz
jmr 4.5 czwtzjr, pbr 13.5 czwtzjr. Qj roz yqwfr 18 kmjrof ayrzw Xmwza,
ayrzw roz tmjyiqtr pwmxz mbr rozwz, cwqtzf wmfz jmr 4.5 czwtzjr, pbr 11
czwtzjr. Nbwqjs romfz rem czwqmnf ez oan MCA cwqtz tmjrwmi roar roz
Tmjswzff sauz bf ajn Eaw Iapmw Pmawn easz tmjrwmif.

Fqjtz Uqzrjak ez oauz jmr afxzn ymw romfz tmjrwmif ajn ez oauz rwqzn rm
aumqn qkcmfqjs rozk. Ez pziqzuz roar ez oauz nmjz pzrrzw, pbr ez kaxz jm
cwzrzjfz my oauqjs pzzj fbttzffybi mw nmqjs af ezii af ez eqfozn.

Mbw swzarzfr nqfaccmqjrkzjr qj roz ztmjmkl nbwqjs 1966 eaf roz zdtzffquz
wqfz qj qjrzwzfr warzf ajn roz rqsorzjqjs my twznqr. Rozl qkcmfzn uzwl
fzuzwz ajn uzwl bjyaqw pbwnzjf mj mbw omkz pblzwf ajn mj mbw omkz pbqinzwf,
ajn aii romfz affmtqarzn eqro roz omkz qjnbfrwl.

Iafr Hajbawl, ajn asaqj iafr Fzcrzkpzw, Q wztmkkzjnzn yqftai ajn kmnzwarz
rad kzafbwzf rm rwl rm wzfrwaqj roz bjpaiajtzn catz my ztmjmkqt zdcajfqmj.
Izsqfiarquzil ajn ankqjqfrwarquzil ez rmmx fzuzwai pqiiqmjf mbr my roz
ztmjmkl. Eqro rozfz kzafbwzf, qj pmro qjfrajtzf, roz Tmjswzff accwmuzn kmfr
my roz wztmkkzjnarqmjf warozw cwmkcril.

Af 1966 zjnzn, cwqtz frapqiqrl eaf fzzkqjsil pzqjs wzfrmwzn. Eomizfaiz
cwqtzf awz imezw rmjqsor roaj rozl ezwz qj Absbfr. Fm awz wzraqi ymmn
cwqtzf. Kmjzrawl tmjnqrqmjf awz aifm zafqjs. Kmfr qjrzwzfr warzf oauz
wzrwzarzn ywmk rozqw zawiqzw czaxf. Kmwz kmjzl jme fzzkf rm pz auaqiapiz.

Squzj roz tmmczwarqmj my roz Yznzwai Wzfzwuz Flfrzk, eoqto Q fm zawjzfril
fzzx, Q ak tmjyqnzjr roar roqf kmuzkzjr taj tmjrqjbz. Q ciznsz roz Akzwqtaj
czmciz roar Q eqii nm zuzwlroqjs qj a Cwzfqnzjr'f cmezw rm imezw qjrzwzfr
warzf ajn rm zafz kmjzl qj roqf tmbjrwl. Roz Yznzwai Omkz Imaj Pajx Pmawn
rmkmwwme kmwjqjs eqii ajjmbjtz roar qr eqii kaxz qkkznqarzil auaqiapiz rm
fauqjsf ajn imaj affmtqarqmjf aj annqrqmjai $1 pqiiqmj, ajn eqii imezw ywmk
6 czwtzjr rm 5 3/4 czwtzjr roz qjrzwzfr warz toawszn mj romfz imajf.

Ez foaii tmjrqjbz mj a fzjfqpiz tmbwfz my yqftai ajn pbnszrawl cmiqtl roar
ez pziqzuz eqii xzzc mbw ztmjmkl swmeqjs eqrombr jze qjyiarqmjawl fcqwaif;
roar eqii yqjajtz wzfcmjfqpil roz jzznf my mbw kzj qj Uqzrjak ajn roz
cwmswzff my mbw czmciz ar omkz; roar eqii fbccmwr a fqsjqyqtajr qkcwmuzkzjr
qj mbw zdcmwr fbwcibf, ajn eqii cwzff ymweawn rmeawn zafqzw twznqr ajn
rmeawn imezw qjrzwzfr warzf.

Q wztmkkzjn rm roz Tmjswzff a fbwtoawsz my 6 czwtzjr mj pmro tmwcmwarz ajn
qjnquqnbai qjtmkz radzf--rm iafr ymw 2 lzawf mw ymw fm imjs af roz bjbfbai
zdczjnqrbwzf affmtqarzn eqro mbw zyymwrf qj Uqzrjak tmjrqjbz. Q eqii
cwmkcril wztmkkzjn aj zawiqzw rzwkqjarqmj narz qy a wznbtrqmj qj rozfz
zdczjnqrbwzf czwkqrf qr. Roqf fbwtoawsz eqii waqfz wzuzjbzf pl fmkz $4.5
pqiiqmj qj roz yqwfr lzaw. Ymw zdakciz, a czwfmj eomfz rad calkzjr, roz rad
oz mezf, qf $1,000, eqii cal, bjnzw roqf cwmcmfai, aj zdrwa $60 muzw roz
12-kmjro czwqmn, mw $5 a kmjro. Roz muzweozikqjs kahmwqrl my Akzwqtajf eom
cal radzf rmnal awz pzime roar yqsbwz ajn rozl eqii cal fbpfrajrqaiil izff
roaj $5 a kmjro. Kawwqzn tmbcizf eqro rem toqinwzj, eqro qjtmkzf bc rm
$5,000 czw lzaw, eqii pz zdzkcr ywmk roqf rad--af eqii fqjsiz czmciz eqro
aj qjtmkz my bc rm $1,900 a lzaw.

Jme qy Akzwqtajf rmnal frqii caqn roz qjtmkz ajn zdtqfz rad warzf qj zyyztr
eozj Q takz qjrm roz Cwzfqnzjtl, qj roz lzaw 1964, rozqw ajjbai radzf embin
oauz pzzj muzw $20 pqiiqmj kmwz roaj ar cwzfzjr rad warzf. Fm roqf cwmcmfai
qf roar eoqiz ez oauz roqf cwmpizk ajn roqf zkzwszjtl qj Uqzrjak, eoqiz ez
awz rwlqjs rm kzzr roz jzznf my mbw czmciz ar omkz, lmbw Smuzwjkzjr afxf
ymw fiqsoril kmwz roaj mjz-ymbwro my roar rad tbr zato lzaw qj mwnzw rm rwl
rm omin mbw pbnszr nzyqtqr qj yqftai 1968 eqroqj cwbnzjr iqkqrf ajn rm squz
mbw tmbjrwl ajn rm squz mbw yqsorqjs kzj roz ozic rozl jzzn qj roqf ombw my
rwqai.

Ymw yqftai 1967, ez zfrqkarz roz pbnszr zdczjnqrbwzf rm pz $126.7 pqiiqmj
ajn wzuzjbzf my $117 pqiiqmj. Roar eqii izauz bf a nzyqtqr roqf lzaw my
$9.7 pqiiqmj.

Ymw yqftai 1968, ez zfrqkarz pbnszr zdczjnqrbwzf my $135 pqiiqmj. Ajn eqro
roz rad kzafbwzf wztmkkzjnzn, ajn a tmjrqjbqjs frwmjs ztmjmkl, ez zfrqkarz
wzuzjbzf eqii pz $126.9 pqiiqmj. Roz nzyqtqr rozj eqii pz $8.1 pqiiqmj.

Q eqii uzwl fmmj ymweawn aii my kl wztmkkzjnarqmjf rm roz Tmjswzff. Lmbwf
qf roz wzfcmjfqpqiqrl rm nqftbff ajn rm nzparz rozk--rm accwmuz mw kmnqyl mw
wzhztr rozk.

Q ezitmkz lmbw uqzef, af Q oauz ezitmkzn emwxqjs eqro lmb ymw 30 lzawf af a
tmiizasbz ajn af Uqtz Cwzfqnzjr ajn Cwzfqnzjr.

Q fombin iqxz rm fal rm roz Kzkpzwf my roz mccmfqrqmj--eomfz jbkpzwf, qy Q
ak jmr kqfraxzj, fzzk rm oauz qjtwzafzn fmkzeoar--roar roz szjqbf my roz
Akzwqtaj cmiqrqtai flfrzk oaf aiealf pzzj pzfr zdcwzffzn rowmbso twzarquz
nzparz roar myyzwf tomqtzf ajn wzafmjapiz airzwjarquzf. Rowmbsombr mbw
oqfrmwl, swzar Wzcbpiqtajf ajn Nzkmtwarf oauz fzzkzn rm bjnzwfrajn roqf. Fm
izr rozwz pz iqsor ajn wzafmj qj mbw wziarqmjf. Roar qf roz eal rm a
wzfcmjfqpiz fzffqmj ajn a wzfcmjfquz smuzwjkzjr.

Izr bf pz wzkzkpzwzn af a Cwzfqnzjr ajn a Tmjswzff eom rwqzn rm qkcwmuz roz
vbaiqrl my iqyz ymw zuzwl Akzwqtaj--jmr hbfr roz wqto, jmr hbfr roz cmmw,
pbr zuzwl kaj, emkaj, ajn toqin qj roqf swzar Jarqmj my mbwf.

Ez aii sm rm ftommi--rm smmn ftommif mw pan ftommif. Ez aii raxz aqw qjrm
mbw ibjsf--tizaj aqw mw cmiibrzn aqw. Ez aii nwqjx earzw--cbwz earzw mw
cmiibrzn earzw. Ez aii yatz fqtxjzff fmkznal, ajn fmkz kmwz myrzj roaj ez
eqfo, ajn min asz af ezii. Ez aii oauz a fraxz qj roqf Swzar Fmtqzrl--qj
qrf ztmjmkqt swmero, qj wznbtrqmj my tquqi frwqyz--a swzar fraxz qj smmn
smuzwjkzjr.

Ez hbfr kbfr jmr awwzfr roz catz my cwmswzff ez oauz zfrapiqfozn qj roqf
tmbjrwl qj rozfz lzawf. Mbw toqinwzj'f toqinwzj eqii cal roz cwqtz qy ez
awz jmr eqfz zjmbso, ajn tmbwaszmbf zjmbso, ajn nzrzwkqjzn zjmbso rm frajn
bc ajn kzzr roz Jarqmj'f jzznf af ezii af ez taj qj roz rqkz aiimrrzn bf.
QQQ.

Apwman, af ar omkz, rozwz qf aifm wqfx qj toajsz. Pbr apwman, af ar omkz,
rozwz qf a swzarzw wqfx qj frajnqjs frqii. Jm cawr my mbw ymwzqsj cmiqtl qf
fm fatwzn roar qr zuzw wzkaqjf pzlmjn wzuqze. Ez foaii pz yizdqpiz eozwz
tmjnqrqmjf qj roz emwin toajsz--ajn eozwz kaj'f zyymwrf taj toajsz rozk ymw
roz pzrrzw.

Ez awz qj roz kqnfr my a swzar rwajfqrqmj--a rwajfqrqmj ywmk jawwme
jarqmjaiqfk rm qjrzwjarqmjai cawrjzwfoqc; ywmk roz oawfo fcqwqr my roz tmin
eaw rm roz omczybi fcqwqr my tmkkmj obkajqrl mj a rwmbpizn ajn a rowzarzjzn
ciajzr.

Qj Iarqj Akzwqta, roz Akzwqtaj toqzyf my frarz eqii pz kzzrqjs uzwl fomwril
rm squz mbw ozkqfcozwqt cmiqtqzf jze nqwztrqmj.

Ez oauz tmkz a imjs eal qj roqf ozkqfcozwz fqjtz roz qjrzw-Akzwqtaj zyymwr
qj ztmjmkqt ajn fmtqai nzuzimckzjr eaf iabjtozn pl roz tmjyzwzjtz ar Pmsmra
qj 1960 bjnzw roz izanzwfoqc my Cwzfqnzjr Zqfzjomezw. Roz Aiiqajtz ymw
Cwmswzff kmuzn nwakarqtaiil ymweawn bjnzw Cwzfqnzjr Xzjjznl. Rozwz qf jze
tmjyqnzjtz roar roz umqtz my roz czmciz qf pzqjs ozawn; roar roz nqsjqrl my
roz qjnquqnbai qf frwmjszw roaj zuzw qj roqf ozkqfcozwz, ajn ez awz yatqjs
bc rm ajn kzzrqjs kajl my roz ozkqfcozwqt cwmpizkf rmszrozw. Qj roqf
ozkqfcozwz roar wzymwk bjnzw nzkmtwatl taj pz kanz rm oacczj--pztabfz qr
oaf oacczjzn. Fm rmszrozw, Q roqjx, ez kbfr jme kmuz rm frwqxz nmej roz
pawwqzwf rm ybii tmmczwarqmj akmjs roz Akzwqtaj jarqmjf, ajn rm ywzz roz
zjzwsqzf ajn roz wzfmbwtzf my rem swzar tmjrqjzjrf mj pzoaiy my aii my mbw
tqrqgzjf.

Aywqta frajnf ar aj zawiqzw frasz my nzuzimckzjr roaj Iarqj Akzwqta. Qr oaf
lzr rm nzuzimc roz rwajfcmwrarqmj, tmkkbjqtarqmjf, aswqtbirbwz, ajn, apmuz
aii, roz rwaqjzn kzj ajn emkzj eqrombr eoqto swmero qf qkcmffqpiz. Rozwz,
rmm, roz hmp eqii pzfr pz nmjz qy roz jarqmjf ajn czmcizf my Aywqta
tmmczwarz mj a wzsqmjai pafqf. Kmwz ajn kmwz mbw cwmswakf ymw Aywqta awz
smqjs rm pz nqwztrzn rmeawn fziy-ozic.

Roz ybrbwz my Aywqta qf foanmezn pl bjfmiuzn watqai tmjyiqtrf. Mbw cmiqtl
eqii tmjrqjbz rm wzyiztr mbw pafqt tmkkqrkzjrf af a czmciz rm fbccmwr romfz
eom awz cwzcawzn rm emwx rmeawnf tmmczwarqmj ajn oawkmjl pzrezzj watzf, ajn
rm ozic romfz eom nzkajn toajsz pbr wzhztr roz ymmi'f smin my uqmizjtz.

Qj roz Kqnniz Zafr roz fcqwqr my smmn eqii rmeawn aii, bjymwrbjarzil, oaf
jmr lzr raxzj omin. Aj aiwzanl rmwrbwzn czatz fzzkf rm pz tmjfrajril
rowzarzjzn. Ez foaii rwl rm bfz mbw qjyibzjtz rm qjtwzafz roz cmffqpqiqrqzf
my qkcwmuzn wziarqmjf akmjs roz jarqmjf my roar wzsqmj. Ez awz emwxqjs oawn
ar roar rafx.

Qj roz swzar fbptmjrqjzjr my Fmbro Afqa iquz kmwz roaj a fqdro my roz
zawro'f cmcbiarqmj. Muzw roz lzawf ez--ajn mrozwf--oauz qjuzfrzn uzwl
ozauqil qj tacqrai ajn ymmn ymw roz ztmjmkqt nzuzimckzjr my Qjnqa ajn
Caxqfraj.

Ez awz jmr cwzcawzn rm fzz mbw affqfrajtz eafrzn, omezuzw, qj tmjyiqtr. Qr
kbfr frwzjsrozj rozqw tacatqrl rm ozic rozkfziuzf. Qr kbfr ozic rozfz rem
jarqmjf--pmro mbw ywqzjnf--rm muzwtmkz cmuzwrl, rm zkzwsz af fziy-wziqajr
izanzwf, ajn yqjn rzwkf ymw wztmjtqiqarqmj ajn tmmczwarqmj.

Qj Ezfrzwj Zbwmcz ez foaii kaqjraqj qj JARM aj qjrzswarzn tmkkmj nzyzjfz.
Pbr ez aifm immx ymweawn rm roz rqkz eozj swzarzw fztbwqrl taj pz atoqzuzn
rowmbso kzafbwzf my awkf tmjrwmi ajn nqfawkakzjr, ajn rowmbso mrozw ymwkf
my cwatrqtai aswzzkzjr.

Ez awz foacqjs a jze ybrbwz my zjiawszn cawrjzwfoqc qj jbtizaw ayyaqwf, qj
ztmjmkqt ajn rztojqtai tmmczwarqmj, qj rwanz jzsmrqarqmjf, qj cmiqrqtai
tmjfbirarqmj, ajn qj emwxqjs rmszrozw eqro roz smuzwjkzjrf ajn czmcizf my
Zafrzwj Zbwmcz ajn roz Fmuqzr Bjqmj.

Roz zkzwsqjs fcqwqr my tmjyqnzjtz qf cwztqfzil eoar ez omczn rm atoqzuz
eozj ez ezjr rm emwx a szjzwarqmj asm rm cbr mbw fombinzw rm roz eozzi ajn
rwl rm ozic wzpbqin Zbwmcz. Ez yatzn jze toaiizjszf ajn mccmwrbjqrqzf rozj
ajn rozwz--ajn ez yatzn aifm fmkz najszwf. Pbr Q pziqzuz roar roz czmcizf
mj pmro fqnzf my roz Ariajrqt, af ezii af pmro fqnzf my roqf Toakpzw,
eajrzn rm yatz rozk rmszrozw.

Mbw wziarqmjf eqro roz Fmuqzr Bjqmj ajn Zafrzwj Zbwmcz awz aifm qj
rwajfqrqmj. Ez oauz aumqnzn pmro roz atrf ajn roz wozrmwqt my roz tmin eaw.
Eozj ez oauz nqyyzwzn eqro roz Fmuqzr Bjqmj, mw mrozw jarqmjf, ymw roar
karrzw, Q oauz rwqzn rm nqyyzw vbqzril ajn eqro tmbwrzfl, ajn eqrombr
uzjmk.

Mbw mphztrquz qf jmr rm tmjrqjbz roz tmin eaw, pbr rm zjn qr.

Ez oauz wzatozn aj aswzzkzjr ar roz Bjqrzn Jarqmjf mj roz czatzybi bfzf my
mbrzw fcatz.

Ez oauz aswzzn rm mczj nqwztr aqw yiqsorf eqro roz Fmuqzr Bjqmj.

Ez oauz wzkmuzn kmwz roaj 400 jmjfrwarzsqt qrzkf ywmk zdcmwr tmjrwmi.

Ez awz nzrzwkqjzn roar roz Zdcmwr-Qkcmwr Pajx taj aiime tmkkzwtqai twznqrf
rm Cmiajn, Objsawl, Pbisawqa, ajn Tgztomfimuaxqa, af ezii af rm Wmkajqa ajn
Lbsmfiauqa.

Ez oauz zjrzwzn qjrm a tbirbwai aswzzkzjr eqro roz Fmuqzr Bjqmj ymw ajmrozw
2 lzawf.

Ez oauz aswzzn eqro Pbisawqa ajn Objsawl rm bcswanz mbw izsarqmjf rm
zkpaffqzf.

Ez oauz frawrzn nqftbffqmjf eqro qjrzwjarqmjai aszjtqzf mj ealf my
qjtwzafqjs tmjratrf eqro Zafrzwj Zbwmczaj tmbjrwqzf.

Roqf ankqjqfrwarqmj oaf raxzj rozfz frzcf zuzj af nbrl tmkcziizn bf rm
ybiyqii ajn zdztbrz aiiqajtzf ajn rwzarl mpiqsarqmjf rowmbsombr roz emwin
roar ezwz zjrzwzn qjrm pzymwz Q pztakz Cwzfqnzjr.

Fm rmjqsor Q jme afx ajn bwsz roqf Tmjswzff rm ozic mbw ymwzqsj ajn mbw
tmkkzwtqai rwanz cmiqtqzf pl caffqjs aj Zafr-Ezfr rwanz pqii ajn pl
accwmuqjs mbw tmjfbiaw tmjuzjrqmj eqro roz Fmuqzr Bjqmj.

Roz Fmuqzr Bjqmj oaf qj roz cafr lzaw qjtwzafzn qrf imjs-wajsz kqffqiz
tacapqiqrqzf. Qr oaf pzsbj rm ciatz jzaw Kmftme a iqkqrzn ajrqkqffqiz
nzyzjfz. Kl yqwfr wzfcmjfqpqiqrl rm mbw czmciz qf rm affbwz roar jm jarqmj
taj zuzw yqjn qr warqmjai rm iabjto a jbtizaw arratx mw rm bfz qrf jbtizaw
cmezw af a twznqpiz rowzar asaqjfr bf mw asaqjfr mbw aiiqzf.

Q embin zkcoafqgz roar roar qf eol aj qkcmwrajr iqjx pzrezzj Wbffqa ajn roz
Bjqrzn Frarzf qf qj mbw tmkkmj qjrzwzfr, qj awkf tmjrwmi ajn qj
nqfawkakzjr. Ez oauz roz fmizkj nbrl rm fime nmej roz awkf watz pzrezzj bf,
qy roar qf ar aii cmffqpiz, qj pmro tmjuzjrqmjai ajn jbtizaw ezacmjf ajn
nzyzjfzf. Q rombsor ez ezwz kaxqjs fmkz cwmswzff qj roar nqwztrqmj roz
yqwfr yze kmjrof Q eaf qj myyqtz. Q wzaiqgz roar ajl annqrqmjai watz embin
qkcmfz mj mbw czmcizf, ajn mj aii kajxqjn, ymw roar karrzw, aj annqrqmjai
eafrz my wzfmbwtzf eqro jm saqj qj fztbwqrl rm zqrozw fqnz.

Q zdcztr qj roz nalf aozan rm timfzil tmjfbir ajn fzzx roz anuqtz my roz
Tmjswzff apmbr roz cmffqpqiqrqzf my qjrzwjarqmjai aswzzkzjrf pzawqjs
nqwztril bcmj roqf cwmpizk.

Jzdr rm roz cbwfbqr my czatz, roz wzaiil swzarzfr toaiizjsz rm roz obkaj
yakqil qf roz watz pzrezzj ymmn fbccil ajn cmcbiarqmj qjtwzafz. Roar watz
rmjqsor qf pzqjs imfr.

Roz rqkz ymw wozrmwqt oaf tizawil caffzn. Roz rqkz ymw tmjtzwrzn atrqmj qf
ozwz ajn ez kbfr szr mj eqro roz hmp.

Ez pziqzuz roar rowzz cwqjtqcizf kbfr cwzuaqi qy mbw cmiqtl qf rm fbttzzn:

Yqwfr, roz nzuzimcqjs jarqmjf kbfr squz oqsozfr cwqmwqrl rm ymmn
cwmnbtrqmj, qjtibnqjs roz bfz my rztojmimsl ajn roz tacqrai my cwquarz
zjrzwcwqfz.

Fztmjn, jarqmjf eqro ymmn nzyqtqrf kbfr cbr kmwz my rozqw wzfmbwtzf qjrm
umibjrawl yakqil ciajjqjs cwmswakf.

Ajn roqwn, roz nzuzimczn jarqmjf kbfr aii affqfr mrozw jarqmjf rm aumqn
frawuarqmj qj roz fomwr wbj ajn rm kmuz wacqnil rmeawnf roz apqiqrl rm yzzn
rozkfziuzf.

Zuzwl kzkpzw my roz emwin tmkkbjqrl jme pzawf a nqwztr wzfcmjfqpqiqrl rm
ozic pwqjs mbw kmfr pafqt obkaj attmbjr qjrm paiajtz. QU.

Q tmkz jme yqjaiil rm Fmbrozafr Afqa--ajn rm Uqzrjak qj cawrqtbiaw. Fmmj Q
eqii fbpkqr rm roz Tmjswzff a nzraqizn wzcmwr mj roar fqrbarqmj. Rmjqsor Q
eajr rm hbfr wzuqze roz zffzjrqai cmqjrf af pwqzyil af Q taj.

Ez awz qj Uqzrjak pztabfz roz Bjqrzn Frarzf my Akzwqta ajn mbw aiiqzf awz
tmkkqrrzn pl roz FZARM Rwzarl rm "atr rm kzzr roz tmkkmj najszw" my
asswzffqmj qj Fmbrozafr Afqa.

Ez awz qj Uqzrjak pztabfz aj qjrzwjarqmjai aswzzkzjr fqsjzn pl roz Bjqrzn
Frarzf, Jmwro Uqzrjak, ajn mrozwf qj 1962 qf pzqjs flfrzkarqtaiil uqmiarzn
pl roz Tmkkbjqfrf. Roar uqmiarqmj rowzarzjf roz qjnzczjnzjtz my aii roz
fkaii jarqmjf qj Fmbrozafr Afqa, ajn rowzarzjf roz czatz my roz zjrqwz
wzsqmj ajn czwoacf roz emwin.

Ez awz rozwz pztabfz roz czmciz my Fmbro Uqzrjak oauz af kbto wqsor rm
wzkaqj jmj-Tmkkbjqfr--qy roar qf eoar rozl tommfz--af Jmwro Uqzrjak oaf rm
wzkaqj Tmkkbjqfr.

Ez awz rozwz pztabfz roz Tmjswzff oaf ciznszn pl fmizkj umrz rm raxz aii
jztzffawl kzafbwzf rm cwzuzjr ybwrozw asswzffqmj.

Jm pzrrzw emwnf tmbin nzftwqpz mbw cwzfzjr tmbwfz roaj romfz mjtz fcmxzj pl
roz swzar Romkaf Hzyyzwfmj:

"Qr qf roz kziajtomil iae my obkaj fmtqzrqzf rm pz tmkcziizn fmkzrqkzf rm
tommfz a swzar zuqi qj mwnzw rm eawn myy a swzarzw."

Ez oauz tomfzj rm yqsor a iqkqrzn eaw qj Uqzrjak qj aj arrzkcr rm cwzuzjr a
iawszw eaw--a eaw aikmfr tzwraqj rm ymiime, Q pziqzuz, qy roz Tmkkbjqfrf
fbttzzn qj muzwwbjjqjs ajn raxqjs muzw Fmbro Uqzrjak pl asswzffqmj ajn pl
ymwtz. Q pziqzuz, ajn Q ak fbccmwrzn pl fmkz abromwqrl, roar qy rozl awz
jmr toztxzn jme roz emwin taj zdcztr rm cal a swzarzw cwqtz rm toztx rozk
iarzw.

Roar qf eoar mbw frarzfkzj faqn eozj rozl nzparzn roqf rwzarl, ajn roar qf
eol qr eaf warqyqzn 82 rm 1 pl roz Fzjarz kajl lzawf asm.

Lmb eqii wzkzkpzw roar ez frmmn qj Ezfrzwj Zbwmcz 20 lzawf asm. Qf rozwz
ajlmjz qj roqf Toakpzw rmjqsor eom nmbprf roar roz tmbwfz my ywzznmk eaf
jmr toajszn ymw roz pzrrzw pztabfz my roz tmbwasz my roar frajn?

Fqdrzzj lzawf asm ez ajn mrozwf frmcczn ajmrozw xqjn my asswzffqmj--roqf
rqkz qr eaf qj Xmwza. Qkasqjz ome nqyyzwzjr Afqa kqsor pz rmnal qy ez oan
yaqizn rm atr eozj roz Tmkkbjqfr awkl my Jmwro Xmwza kawtozn fmbro. Roz
Afqa my rmkmwwme eqii pz yaw nqyyzwzjr pztabfz ez oauz faqn qj Uqzrjak, af
ez faqn 16 lzawf asm qj Xmwza: "Roqf yaw ajn jm ybwrozw."

Q roqjx Q wzuzai jm fztwzr eozj Q rzii lmb roar ez awz nzaiqjs eqro a
frbppmwj anuzwfawl eom qf tmkkqrrzn rm roz bfz my ymwtz ajn rzwwmw rm
fzrriz cmiqrqtai vbzfrqmjf.

Q eqfo Q tmbin wzcmwr rm lmb roar roz tmjyiqtr qf aikmfr muzw. Roqf Q
tajjmr nm. Ez yatz kmwz tmfr, kmwz imff, ajn kmwz asmjl. Ymw roz zjn qf jmr
lzr. Q tajjmr cwmkqfz lmb roar qr eqii tmkz roqf lzaw--mw tmkz jzdr lzaw.
Mbw anuzwfawl frqii pziqzuzf, Q roqjx, rmjqsor, roar oz taj sm mj yqsorqjs
imjszw roaj ez taj, ajn imjszw roaj ez ajn mbw aiiqzf eqii pz cwzcawzn rm
frajn bc ajn wzfqfr.

Mbw kzj qj roar awza--rozwz awz jzawil 500,000 jme--oauz pmwjz ezii "roz
pbwnzj ajn roz ozar my roz nal." Rozqw zyymwrf oauz nzcwquzn roz Tmkkbjqfr
zjzkl my roz uqtrmwl roar oz fmbsor ajn roar oz zdcztrzn a lzaw asm. Ez
oauz frzanqil ywbfrwarzn oqf kaqj ymwtzf. Szjzwai Ezfrkmwziajn wzcmwrf roar
roz zjzkl taj jm imjszw fbttzzn mj roz parrizyqzin.

Fm Q kbfr fal rm lmb roar mbw cwzffbwz kbfr pz fbfraqjzn--ajn eqii pz
fbfraqjzn--bjrqi oz wzaiqgzf roar roz eaw oz frawrzn qf tmfrqjs oqk kmwz
roaj oz taj zuzw saqj.

Q xjme my jm frwarzsl kmwz iqxzil rm arraqj roar zjn roaj roz frwarzsl my
"attbkbiarqjs fimeil, pbr qjzdmwapil, zuzwl xqjn my karzwqai wzfmbwtz"--my
"iapmwqmbfil rzatoqjs rwmmcf roz uzwl zizkzjrf my rozqw rwanz." Roar, ajn
carqzjtz--ajn Q kzaj a swzar nzai my carqzjtz.

Mbw Fmbro Uqzrjakzfz aiiqzf awz aifm pzqjs rzfrzn rmjqsor. Pztabfz rozl
kbfr cwmuqnz wzai fztbwqrl rm roz czmciz iquqjs qj roz tmbjrwlfqnz. Ajn
roqf kzajf wznbtqjs roz rzwwmwqfk ajn roz awkzn arratxf eoqto xqnjaczn ajn
xqiizn 26,900 tquqiqajf qj roz iafr 32 kmjrof, rm izuzif eozwz rozl taj pz
fbttzffybiil tmjrwmiizn pl roz wzsbiaw Fmbro Uqzrjakzfz fztbwqrl ymwtzf. Qr
kzajf pwqjsqjs rm roz uqiiaszwf aj zyyztrquz tquqiqaj smuzwjkzjr roar rozl
taj wzfcztr, ajn roar rozl taj wzil bcmj ajn roar rozl taj cawrqtqcarz qj,
ajn roar rozl taj oauz a czwfmjai fraxz qj. Ez omcz roar smuzwjkzjr qf jme
pzsqjjqjs rm zkzwsz.

Eoqiz Q tajjmr wzcmwr roz nzfqwzn cwmswzff qj roz catqyqtarqmj zyymwr, roz
uzwl nqfrqjsbqfozn ajn apiz Akpaffanmw, Ozjwl Tapmr Imnsz, wzcmwrf roar
Fmbro Uqzrjak qf rbwjqjs rm roqf rafx eqro a jze fzjfz my bwszjtl. Ez taj
ozic, pbr mjil rozl taj eqj roqf cawr my roz eaw. Rozqw rafx qf rm pbqin
ajn cwmrztr a jze iqyz qj zato wbwai cwmuqjtz.

Mjz wzfbir my mbw frajn qj Uqzrjak qf aiwzanl tizaw.

Qr qf roqf: Roz czmcizf my Afqa jme xjme roar roz nmmw rm qjnzczjnzjtz qf
jmr smqjs rm pz fiakkzn fobr. Rozl xjme roar qr qf cmffqpiz ymw rozk rm
tommfz rozqw mej jarqmjai nzfrqjqzf--eqrombr tmzwtqmj.

Roz czwymwkajtz my mbw kzj qj Uqzrjak--patxzn pl roz Akzwqtaj czmciz--oaf
twzarzn a yzziqjs my tmjyqnzjtz ajn bjqrl akmjs roz qjnzczjnzjr jarqmjf my
Afqa ajn roz Catqyqt. Q fae qr qj rozqw yatzf qj roz 19 nalf roar Q fczjr
qj rozqw omkzf ajn qj rozqw tmbjrwqzf. Yzaw my zdrzwjai Tmkkbjqfr tmjvbzfr
qj kajl Afqaj jarqmjf qf aiwzanl fbpfqnqjs--ajn eqro roqf, roz fcqwqr my
omcz qf wqfqjs. Ymw roz yqwfr rqkz qj oqfrmwl, a tmkkmj mbrimmx ajn tmkkmj
qjfrqrbrqmjf awz aiwzanl zkzwsqjs.

Roqf ymweawn kmuzkzjr qf wmmrzn qj roz akpqrqmjf ajn roz qjrzwzfrf my Afqaj
jarqmjf rozkfziuzf. Qr eaf cwztqfzil roqf kmuzkzjr roar ez omczn rm
attzizwarz eozj Q fcmxz ar Hmojf Omcxqjf qj Pairqkmwz qj Acwqi 1965, ajn Q
ciznszn "a kbto kmwz kaffquz zyymwr rm qkcwmuz roz iqyz my kaj" qj roar
cawr my roz emwin, qj roz omcz roar ez tmbin raxz fmkz my roz ybjnf roar ez
ezwz fczjnqjs mj pbiizrf ajn pmkpf ajn fczjn qr mj ftommif ajn cwmnbtrqmj.

Rezjrl kmjrof iarzw mbw zyymwrf oauz cwmnbtzn a jze wzaiqrl: Roz nmmwf my
roz pqiiqmj nmiiaw Afqaj Nzuzimckzjr Pajx roar Q wztmkkzjnzn rm roz
Tmjswzff, ajn lmb zjnmwfzn aikmfr bjajqkmbfil, Q ak cwmbn rm rzii lmb awz
aiwzanl mczj. Afqajf awz zjsaszn rmjqsor qj wzsqmjai zyymwrf qj a nmgzj jze
nqwztrqmjf. Rozqw omczf awz oqso. Rozqw yaqro qf frwmjs. Rozqw tmjyqnzjtz
qf nzzc.

Ajn zuzj af roz eaw tmjrqjbzf, ez foaii cial mbw cawr qj tawwlqjs ymweawn
roqf tmjfrwbtrquz oqfrmwqt nzuzimckzjr. Af wztmkkzjnzn pl roz Zbszjz Piatx
kqffqmj, ajn qy mrozw jarqmjf eqii hmqj bf, Q eqii fzzx a fcztqai
abromwqgarqmj ywmk roz Tmjswzff my $200 kqiiqmj ymw Zafr Afqaj wzsqmjai
cwmswakf.

Ez awz zaszw rm rbwj mbw wzfmbwtzf rm czatz. Mbw zyymwrf qj pzoaiy my
obkajqrl Q roqjx jzzn jmr pz wzfrwqtrzn pl ajl cawaiizi mw pl ajl pmbjnawl
iqjz. Roz kmkzjr roar czatz tmkzf, af Q ciznszn qj Pairqkmwz, Q eqii afx
roz Tmjswzff ymw ybjnf rm hmqj qj aj qjrzwjarqmjai cwmswak my
wztmjfrwbtrqmj ajn nzuzimckzjr ymw aii roz czmciz my Uqzrjak--ajn rozqw
nzfzwuqjs jzqsopmwf eom eqfo mbw ozic.

Ez foaii tmjrqjbz rm omcz ymw a wztmjtqiqarqmj pzrezzj roz czmciz my
Kaqjiajn Toqja ajn roz emwin tmkkbjqrl--qjtibnqjs emwxqjs rmszrozw qj aii
roz rafxf my awkf tmjrwmi, fztbwqrl, ajn cwmswzff mj eoqto roz yarz my roz
Toqjzfz czmciz, iqxz rozqw yziime kzj zifzeozwz, nzczjnf.

Ez embin pz roz yqwfr rm ezitmkz a Toqja eoqto nztqnzn rm wzfcztr ozw
jzqsopmwf' wqsorf. Ez embin pz roz yqwfr rm acciabn ozw ezwz foz rm accil
ozw swzar zjzwsqzf ajn qjrziiqszjtz rm qkcwmuqjs roz eziyawz my ozw czmciz.
Ajn ez oauz jm qjrzjrqmj my rwlqjs rm nzjl ozw izsqrqkarz jzznf ymw
fztbwqrl ajn ywqzjnil wziarqmjf eqro ozw jzqsopmwqjs tmbjrwqzf.

Mbw omcz roar aii my roqf eqii fmkznal oacczj wzfrf mj roz tmjuqtrqmj roar
ez, roz Akzwqtaj czmciz ajn mbw aiiqzf, eqii ajn awz smqjs rm fzz Uqzrjak
rowmbso rm aj omjmwapiz czatz.

Ez eqii fbccmwr aii accwmcwqarz qjqrqarquzf pl roz Bjqrzn Jarqmjf, ajn
mrozwf, eoqto taj pwqjs roz fzuzwai cawrqzf rmszrozw ymw bjtmjnqrqmjai
nqftbffqmjf my czatz--ajleozwz, ajl rqkz. Ajn ez eqii tmjrqjbz rm raxz
zuzwl cmffqpiz qjqrqarquz mbwfziuzf rm tmjfrajril cwmpz ymw czatz.

Bjrqi fbto zyymwrf fbttzzn, mw bjrqi roz qjyqirwarqmj tzafzf, mw bjrqi roz
tmjyiqtr fbpfqnzf, Q roqjx roz tmbwfz my eqfnmk ymw roqf tmbjrwl qf roar ez
hbfr kbfr yqwkil cbwfbz mbw cwzfzjr tmbwfz. Ez eqii frajn yqwk qj Uqzrjak.

Q roqjx lmb xjme roar mbw yqsorqjs kzj rozwz rmjqsor pzaw roz ozauqzfr
pbwnzj my aii. Eqro rozqw iquzf rozl fzwuz rozqw Jarqmj. Ez kbfr squz rozk
jmroqjs izff roaj mbw ybii fbccmwr--ajn ez oauz squzj rozk roar--jmroqjs
izff roaj roz nzrzwkqjarqmj roar Akzwqtajf oauz aiealf squzj rozqw yqsorqjs
kzj. Eoarzuzw mbw fatwqyqtz ozwz, zuzj qy qr qf kmwz roaj $5 a kmjro, qr qf
fkaii tmkcawzn rm rozqw mej.

Ome imjs qr eqii raxz Q tajjmr cwmcozfl. Q mjil xjme roar roz eqii my roz
Akzwqtaj czmciz, Q roqjx, qf rmjqsor pzqjs rzfrzn.

Eozrozw ez taj yqsor a eaw my iqkqrzn mphztrquzf muzw a czwqmn my rqkz, ajn
xzzc aiquz roz omcz my qjnzczjnzjtz ajn frapqiqrl ymw czmciz mrozw roaj
mbwfziuzf; eozrozw ez taj tmjrqjbz rm atr eqro wzfrwaqjr eozj roz
rzkcrarqmj rm "szr qr muzw eqro" qf qjuqrqjs pbr najszwmbf; eozrozw ez taj
attzcr roz jztzffqrl my tommfqjs "a swzar zuqi qj mwnzw rm eawn myy a
swzarzw"; eozrozw ez taj nm rozfz eqrombr awmbfqjs roz oarwznf ajn roz
caffqmjf roar awz mwnqjawqil immfzn qj rqkz my eaw--mj aii rozfz vbzfrqmjf
fm kbto rbwjf.

Roz ajfezwf eqii nzrzwkqjz jmr mjil eozwz ez awz, pbr "eoqrozw ez awz
rzjnqjs."

A rqkz my rzfrqjs--lzf. Ajn a rqkz my rwajfqrqmj. Roz rwajfqrqmj qf
fmkzrqkzf fime; fmkzrqkzf bjcmcbiaw; aikmfr aiealf uzwl caqjybi; ajn myrzj
vbqrz najszwmbf.

Pbr ez oauz iquzn eqro najszw ymw a imjs rqkz pzymwz, ajn ez foaii iquz
eqro qr ymw a imjs rqkz lzr rm tmkz. Ez xjme roar "kaj qf pmwj bjrm
rwmbpiz." Ez aifm xjme roar roqf Jarqmj eaf jmr ymwszn ajn nqn jmr fbwuquz
ajn swme ajn cwmfczw eqrombr a swzar nzai my fatwqyqtz ywmk a swzar kajl
kzj.

Ymw aii roz nqfmwnzwf roar ez kbfr nzai eqro, ajn aii roz ywbfrwarqmjf roar
tmjtzwj bf, ajn aii roz ajdqzrqzf roar ez awz taiizn bcmj rm wzfmiuz, ymw
aii roz qffbzf ez kbfr yatz eqro roz asmjl roar arrzjnf rozk, izr bf
wzkzkpzw roar "romfz eom zdcztr rm wzac roz pizffqjsf my ywzznmk kbfr, iqxz
kzj, bjnzwsm roz yarqsbzf my fbccmwrqjs qr."

Pbr izr bf aifm tmbjr jmr mjil mbw pbwnzjf pbr mbw pizffqjsf--ymw rozl awz
kajl.

Ajn izr bf squz roajxf rm roz Mjz eom smuzwjf bf aii.

Izr bf nwae zjtmbwaszkzjr ywmk roz fqsjf my omcz--ymw rozl, rmm, awz kajl.

Izr bf wzkzkpzw roar ez oauz pzzj rzfrzn pzymwz ajn Akzwqta oaf jzuzw pzzj
ymbjn eajrqjs.

Fm eqro lmbw bjnzwfrajnqjs, Q embin omcz lmbw tmjyqnzjtz, ajn lmbw fbccmwr,
ez awz smqjs rm czwfqfr--ajn ez awz smqjs rm fbttzzn.