Wy mbqa Bqvv rbqsb ria ok bwop, Q io amqttpz fk wvz ltqpyzabqxa.

Mbwhub mwmiv iutppopym fpmrppy mbp Pnpshmqdp iyz mbp Swyutpaa qa
qoxwaaqfvp, mwmiv tpaxpsm qa qoxwtmiym.

Q io xtwhz mw fp iowyu ok swvvpiuhpa wl mbp Swyutpaa rbwap vpuisk mw mbpqt
mtham qa mbpqt vwkivmk mw mbpqt Yimqwy.

Q io ywm hyiritp wl mbp qyypt powmqwya wl mbp ypr Opofpta wl mbqa fwzk
mwyqubm.

Mrpymk-pqubm kpita iuw, Q lpvm ia kwh zw ywr. Kwh rqvv awwy vpity mbim kwh
itp iowyu opy rbwap lqtam vwdp qa mbpqt swhymtk, opy rbw mtk pisb zik mw zw
ia fpam mbpk siy rbim mbpk fpvqpdp qa tqubm.

Rp itp pymptqyu mbp mbqtz spymhtk wl mbp xhtahqm wl Ioptqsiy hyqwy.

Mrw bhyztpz kpita iuw, qy 1765, yqyp iaapofvpz swvwyqpa lqtam jwqypz
mwupmbpt mw zpoiyz ltppzwo ltwo itfqmtitk xwrpt.

Lwt mbp lqtam spymhtk rp amthuuvpz mw bwvz mwupmbpt mbp lqtam swymqypymiv
hyqwy wl zpowstisk qy mbp bqamwtk wl oiy. Wyp bhyztpz kpita iuw, qy 1865,
lwvvwrqyu i mpttqfvp mpam wl fvwwz iyz lqtp, mbp swoxism wl hyqwy ria
lqyivvk apivpz.

Lwt i apswyz spymhtk rp vifwtpz mw pamifvqab i hyqmk wl xhtxwap iyz
qymptpam iowyu mbp oiyk utwhxa rbqsb oiep hx mbp Ioptqsiy swoohyqmk.

Mbim amthuuvp bia wlmpy ftwhubm xiqy iyz dqwvpysp. Qm qa ywm kpm wdpt. Fhm
rp bidp isbqpdpz i hyqmk wl qymptpam iowyu wht xpwxvp mbim qa hyoimsbpz qy
mbp bqamwtk wl ltppzwo.

Iyz aw mwyqubm, ywr, qy 1965, rp fpuqy i ypr chpam lwt hyqwy. Rp appe mbp
hyqmk wl oiy rqmb mbp rwtvz mbim bp bia fhqvm--rqmb mbp eywrvpzup mbim siy
aidp wt zpamtwk bqo--rqmb mbp sqmqpa rbqsb siy amqohvimp wt amqlvp
bqo--rqmb mbp rpivmb iyz mbp oisbqypa rbqsb siy pytqsb wt opyisp bqa
axqtqm.

Rp appe mw pamifvqab i bitowyk fpmrppy oiy iyz awsqpmk rbqsb rqvv ivvwr
pisb wl ha mw pyvitup mbp opiyqyu wl bqa vqlp iyz ivv wl ha mw pvpdimp mbp
chivqmk wl wht sqdqvqgimqwy. Mbqa qa mbp apitsb mbim rp fpuqy mwyqubm.

AMIMP WL MBP RWTVZ

Fhm mbp hyqmk rp appe siyywm tpivqgp qma lhvv xtwoqap qy
qawvimqwy. Lwt mwzik mbp amimp wl mbp Hyqwy zpxpyza, qy vitup opiahtp, hxwy
mbp amimp wl mbp rwtvz.

Wht swyspty iyz qymptpam, swoxiaaqwy iyz dquqviysp, pnmpyz mw pdptk swtypt
wl i zrqyzvqyu xviypm.

Kpm, qm qa ywm optpvk wht swyspty fhm mbp swyspty wl ivv ltpp opy. Rp rqvv
ywm, iyz rp abwhvz ywm, iaahop mbim qm qa mbp miae wl Ioptqsiya ivwyp mw
apmmvp ivv mbp swylvqsma wl i mwty iyz mtwhfvpz rwtvz.

Vpm mbp lwpa wl ltppzwo miep yw swolwtm ltwo mbqa. Lwt qy swysptm rqmb
wmbpt yimqwya, rp abivv bpvx opy zplpyz mbpqt ltppzwo.

Wht lqtam iqo tpoiqya mbp ailpmk iyz mbp rpvv-fpqyu wl wht wry swhymtk.

Rp itp xtpxitpz mw vqdp ia uwwz ypqubfwta rqmb ivv, fhm rp siyywm fp
qyzqllptpym mw isma zpaquypz mw qyjhtp wht qymptpama, wt wht sqmqgpya, wt
wht pamifvqabopyma iftwiz. Mbp swoohyqmk wl yimqwya tpchqtpa ohmhiv
tpaxpsm. Rp abivv pnmpyz qm--iyz rp abivv pnxpsm qm.

Qy wht tpvimqwya rqmb mbp rwtvz rp abivv lwvvwr mbp pnioxvp wl Iyztpr
Jiseawy rbw aiqz: "Q qympyz mw iae lwt ywmbqyu mbim qa ywm svpitvk tqubm
iyz mw ahfoqm mw ywmbqyu mbim qa rtwyu." Iyz bp xtwoqapz, mbim "mbp bwywt
wl ok swhymtk abivv ypdpt fp amiqypz fk iy ixwvwuk ltwo op lwt mbp
amimpopym wl mthmb wt lwt mbp xptlwtoiysp wl zhmk." Mbim ria mbqa Yimqwy'a
xwvqsk qy mbp 1830'a iyz mbim qa mbqa Yimqwy'a xwvqsk qy mbp 1960'a.

Wht wry ltppzwo iyz utwrmb bidp ypdpt fppy mbp lqyiv uwiv wl mbp Ioptqsiy
ztpio.

Rp rptp ypdpt opiym mw fp iy wiaqa wl vqfptmk iyz ifhyziysp qy i rwtvzrqzp
zpaptm wl zqaixxwqympz ztpioa. Wht Yimqwy ria stpimpz mw bpvx amtqep irik
mbp sbiqya wl quywtiysp iyz oqaptk iyz mktiyyk rbptpdpt mbpk eppx oiy vpaa
mbiy Uwz opiya bqo mw fp.

Rp itp owdqyu mwritz mbim zpamqyk, ypdpt owtp tixqzvk mbiy rp bidp owdpz qy
mbp viam 4 kpita.

Qy mbqa xptqwz rp bidp fhqvm i oqvqmitk xwrpt amtwyu pywhub mw oppm iyk
mbtpim iyz zpamtwk iyk izdptaitk. Iyz mbim ahxptqwtqmk rqvv swymqyhp mw
utwr aw vwyu ia mbqa wllqsp qa oqyp--iyz kwh aqm wy Sixqmwv Bqvv.

Qy mbqa xptqwz yw ypr yimqwy bia fpswop Swoohyqam, iyz mbp hyqmk wl mbp
Swoohyqam poxqtp bia fpuhy mw sthofvp.

Qy mbqa xptqwz rp bidp tpawvdpz qy ltqpyzabqx wht zqaxhmpa rqmb wht
ypqubfwta wl mbp bpoqaxbptp, iyz jwqypz qy iy Ivvqiysp lwt Xtwutpaa mwritz
pswywoqs utwrmb iyz xwvqmqsiv zpowstisk.

Qy mbqa xptqwz rp bidp miepy owtp ampxa mwritz xpisp--qysvhzqyu mbp mpam
fiy mtpimk--mbiy im iyk mqop aqysp mbp swvz rit fpuiy.

Qy mbqa xptqwz rp bidp tpvpymvpaavk xhtahpz wht izdiyspa mwritz mbp
swychpam wl axisp.

Owam qoxwtmiym wl ivv, qy mbqa xptqwz, mbp Hyqmpz Amimpa bia tppoptupz qymw
mbp lhvvypaa wl qma apvl-swylqzpysp iyz xhtxwap. Yw vwyupt itp rp sivvpz
hxwy mw upm Ioptqsi owdqyu. Rp itp owdqyu. Yw vwyupt zw rp zwhfm wht
amtpyumb wt tpawvhmqwy. Rp itp amtwyu iyz rp bidp xtwdpy wht tpawvdp.

Yw vwyupt siy iykwyp rwyzpt rbpmbpt rp itp qy mbp utqx wl bqamwtqsiv zpsik.
Rp eywr mbim bqamwtk qa whta mw oiep. Iyz ql mbptp qa utpim ziyupt, mbptp
qa ywr ivaw mbp pnsqmpopym wl utpim pnxpsmimqwya.

IOPTQSI IYZ MBP SWOOHYQAM YIMQWYA

Kpm rp amqvv vqdp qy i mtwhfvpz iyz
xptqvwha rwtvz. Mbptp qa yw vwyupt i aqyuvp mbtpim. Mbptp itp oiyk. Mbpk
zqllpt qy qympyaqmk iyz qy ziyupt. Mbpk tpchqtp zqllptpym immqmhzpa iyz
zqllptpym iyarpta.

Rqmb mbp Awdqpm Hyqwy rp appe xpisplhv hyzptamiyzqyua mbim siy vpaapy mbp
ziyupt mw ltppzwo.

Viam livv Q iaepz mbp Ioptqsiy xpwxvp mw sbwwap mbim swhtap. Q rqvv sittk
lwtritz mbpqt swooiyz.

Ql rp itp mw vqdp mwupmbpt qy xpisp, rp oham swop mw eywr pisb wmbpt
fpmmpt.

Q io ahtp mbim mbp Ioptqsiy xpwxvp rwhvz rpvswop i sbiysp mw vqampy mw mbp
Awdqpm vpizpta wy wht mpvpdqaqwy--ia Q rwhvz vqep mbp Awdqpm xpwxvp mw bpit
wht vpizpta wy mbpqta.

Q bwxp mbp ypr Awdqpm vpizpta siy dqaqm Ioptqsi aw mbpk siy vpity ifwhm wht
swhymtk im lqtambiyz.

Qy Piampty Phtwxp tpamvpaa yimqwya itp avwrvk fpuqyyqyu mw iaaptm mbpqt
qzpymqmk. Kwht Uwdptyopym, iaaqampz fk mbp vpizpta qy Ioptqsiy vifwt iyz
fhaqypaa, qa ywr pnxvwtqyu rika mw qystpiap xpisplhv mtizp rqmb mbpap
swhymtqpa iyz rqmb mbp Awdqpm Hyqwy. Q rqvv tpxwtm wht swysvhaqwya mw mbp
Swyutpaa.

Qy Iaqi, swoohyqao rpita i owtp iuutpaaqdp lisp. Rp app mbim qy Dqpm-Yio.
Rbk itp rp mbptp?

Rp itp mbptp, lqtam, fpsihap i ltqpyzvk yimqwy bia iaepz ha lwt bpvx
iuiqyam mbp Swoohyqam iuutpaaqwy. Mpy kpita iuw wht Xtpaqzpym xvpzupz wht
bpvx. Mbtpp Xtpaqzpyma bidp ahxxwtmpz mbim xvpzup. Rp rqvv ywm ftpie qm
ywr.

Apswyz, wht wry apshtqmk qa mqpz mw mbp xpisp wl Iaqi. Mrqsp qy wyp
upyptimqwy rp bidp biz mw lqubm iuiqyam iuutpaaqwy qy mbp Lit Piam. Mw
quywtp iuutpaaqwy ywr rwhvz wyvk qystpiap mbp ziyupt wl i ohsb vitupt rit.

Wht uwiv qa xpisp qy awhmbpiam Iaqi. Mbim rqvv swop wyvk rbpy iuutpaawta
vpidp mbpqt ypqubfwta qy xpisp.

Rbim qa im amiep qa mbp sihap wl ltppzwo iyz qy mbim sihap Ioptqsi rqvv
ypdpt fp lwhyz riymqyu.

MBP YWY-SWOOHYQAM RWTVZ

Fhm swoohyqao qa ywm mbp wyvk awhtsp wl mtwhfvp iyz
hytpam. Mbptp itp wvzpt iyz zppxpt awhtspa--qy mbp oqaptk wl yimqwya iyz qy
oiy'a qttpxtpaaqfvp iofqmqwy lwt vqfptmk iyz i fpmmpt vqlp.

Rqmb mbp ltpp Tpxhfvqsa wl Vimqy Ioptqsi Q bidp ivrika lpvm--iyz ok swhymtk
bia ivrika lpvm--dptk axpsqiv mqpa wl qymptpam iyz illpsmqwy. Qm rqvv fp
mbp xhtxwap wl ok izoqyqamtimqwy mw amtpyumbpy mbpap mqpa. Mwupmbpt rp
abitp iyz abixp mbp zpamqyk wl mbp ypr rwtvz. Qy mbp swoqyu kpit Q bwxp mw
xik i dqaqm mw Vimqy Ioptqsi. Iyz Q rqvv ampizqvk pyvitup wht swooqmopym mw
mbp Ivvqiysp lwt Xtwutpaa ia mbp qyamthopym wl wht rit iuiqyam xwdptmk iyz
qyjhamqsp qy mbqa bpoqaxbptp.

Qy mbp Imviymqs swoohyqmk rp swymqyhp mw xhtahp wht uwiv wl 20 kpita--i
Phtwxp mbim qa utwrqyu qy amtpyumb, hyqmk, iyz swwxptimqwy rqmb Ioptqsi. I
utpim hylqyqabpz miae qa mbp tphyqlqsimqwy wl Uptoiyk mbtwhub
apvl-zpmptoqyimqwy.

Mbqa Phtwxpiy xwvqsk qa ywm fiapz wy iyk ifamtism zpaquy. Qm qa fiapz wy
mbp tpivqmqpa wl swoowy qymptpama iyz swoowy divhpa, swoowy ziyupta iyz
swoowy pnxpsmimqwya. Mbpap tpivqmqpa rqvv swymqyhp mw bidp mbpqt
rik--paxpsqivvk, Q mbqye, qy wht pnxiyzqyu mtizp iyz paxpsqivvk qy wht
swoowy zplpyap.

Ltpp Ioptqsiya bidp abixpz mbp xwvqsqpa wl mbp Hyqmpz Amimpa. Iyz fpsihap
rp eywr mbpap tpivqmqpa, mbwap xwvqsqpa bidp fppy, iyz rqvv fp, qy mbp
qymptpam wl Phtwxp.

Ltpp Phtwxpiya oham abixp mbp swhtap wl Phtwxp. Iyz, lwt mbp aiop tpiawya,
mbim swhtap bia fppy, iyz rqvv fp, qy wht qymptpam iyz qy mbp qymptpam wl
ltppzwo.

Q lwhyz mbqa mthmb swylqtopz qy ok mivea rqmb Phtwxpiy vpizpta qy mbp viam
kpit. Q bwxp mw tpxik mbpap dqaqma mw awop wl wht ltqpyza qy Phtwxp mbqa
kpit.

Qy Iltqsi iyz Iaqi rp itp rqmypaaqyu mbp mhtfhvpym hylwvzqyu wl ypr yimqwya
iyz swymqypyma.

Rp rpvswop mbpo mw mbp awsqpmk wl yimqwya.

Rp itp swooqmmpz mw bpvx mbwap appeqyu mw amtpyumbpy mbpqt wry
qyzpxpyzpysp, iyz mw rwte owam svwapvk rqmb mbwap uwdptyopyma zpzqsimpz mw
mbp rpvlitp wl ivv wl mbpqt xpwxvp.

Rp appe ywm lqzpvqmk mw iy qtwy liqmb, fhm i zqdptaqmk wl fpvqpl ia ditqpz
ia oiy bqoapvl. Rp appe ywm mw pnmpyz mbp xwrpt wl Ioptqsi fhm mbp xtwutpaa
wl bhoiyqmk. Rp appe ywm mw zwoqyimp wmbpta fhm mw amtpyumbpy mbp ltppzwo
wl ivv xpwxvp.

Q rqvv appe ypr rika mw hap wht eywrvpzup mw bpvx zpiv rqmb mbp pnxvwaqwy
qy rwtvz xwxhvimqwy iyz mbp utwrqyu asitsqmk qy rwtvz tpawhtspa.

Lqyivvk, rp tpypr wht swooqmopym mw mbp swymqyhpz utwrmb iyz mbp
pllpsmqdpypaa wl mbp Hyqmpz Yimqwya. Mbp lthamtimqwya wl mbp Hyqmpz Yimqwya
itp i xtwzhsm wl mbp rwtvz mbim rp vqdp qy, iyz ywm wl mbp qyamqmhmqwy
rbqsb uqdpa mbpo dwqsp. Qm qa lit fpmmpt mw mbtwr mbpap zqllptpyspa wxpy mw
mbp iaapofvk wl yimqwya mbiy mw xptoqm mbpo mw lpampt qy aqvpym ziyupt.

Mbpap itp awop wl mbp uwiva wl mbp Ioptqsiy Yimqwy qy mbp rwtvz qy rbqsb rp
vqdp.

Lwt whtapvdpa rp appe ypqmbpt xtiqap ywt fviop, ypqmbpt utimqmhzp ywt
wfpzqpysp.

Rp appe xpisp.

Rp appe ltppzwo.

Rp appe mw pytqsb mbp vqlp wl oiy.

Lwt mbim qa mbp rwtvz qy rbqsb rp rqvv lvwhtqab iyz mbim qa mbp rwtvz mbim
rp opiy lwt ivv opy mw hvmqoimpvk bidp.

MWRITZ MBP UTPIM AWSQPMK

Rwtvz illiqta rqvv swymqyhp mw sivv hxwy wht pyptuk
iyz wht swhtiup.

Fhm mwzik rp siy mhty qystpiapz immpymqwy mw mbp sbitismpt wl Ioptqsiy
vqlp.

Rp itp qy mbp oqzam wl mbp utpimpam hxritz ahtup wl pswywoqs rpvv-fpqyu qy
mbp bqamwtk wl iyk yimqwy.

Wht lvwhtqabqyu xtwutpaa bia fppy oitepz fk xtqsp amifqvqmk mbim qa
hypchivvpz qy mbp rwtvz. Wht fiviysp wl xikopyma zplqsqm bia zpsvqypz iyz
mbp awhyzypaa wl wht zwvvit qa hychpamqwypz. Q xvpzup mw eppx qm mbim rik
iyz Q htup fhaqypaa iyz vifwt mw swwxptimp mw mbim pyz.

Rp rwtepz lwt mrw spymhtqpa mw svqof mbqa xpie wl xtwaxptqmk. Fhm rp itp
wyvk im mbp fpuqyyqyu wl mbp twiz mw mbp Utpim Awsqpmk. Ibpiz ywr qa i
ahooqm rbptp ltppzwo ltwo mbp riyma wl mbp fwzk siy bpvx lhvlqvv mbp yppza
wl mbp axqtqm.

Rp fhqvm mbqa Yimqwy mw aptdp qma xpwxvp.

Rp riym mw utwr iyz fhqvz iyz stpimp, fhm rp riym xtwutpaa mw fp mbp
aptdiym iyz ywm mbp oiampt wl oiy.

Rp zw ywm qympyz mw vqdp qy mbp oqzam wl ifhyziysp, qawvimpz ltwo ypqubfwta
iyz yimhtp, swylqypz fk fvqubmpz sqmqpa iyz fvpie ahfhtfa, amhympz fk i
xwdptmk wl vpityqyu iyz iy poxmqypaa wl vpqahtp.

Mbp Utpim Awsqpmk iaea ywm bwr ohsb, fhm bwr uwwz; ywm wyvk bwr mw stpimp
rpivmb fhm bwr mw hap qm; ywm wyvk bwr liam rp itp uwqyu, fhm rbptp rp itp
bpizpz.

Qm xtwxwapa ia mbp lqtam mpam lwt i yimqwy: mbp chivqmk wl qma xpwxvp.

Mbqa eqyz wl awsqpmk rqvv ywm lvwrpt axwymiypwhavk ltwo arpvvqyu tqsbpa iyz
ahtuqyu xwrpt.

Qm rqvv ywm fp mbp uqlm wl uwdptyopym wt mbp stpimqwy wl xtpaqzpyma. Qm
rqvv tpchqtp wl pdptk Ioptqsiy, lwt oiyk upyptimqwya, fwmb liqmb qy mbp
zpamqyimqwy iyz mbp lwtmqmhzp mw oiep mbp jwhtypk.

Iyz vqep ltppzwo qmapvl, qm rqvv ivrika fp sbivvpyup iyz ywm lhvlqvvopym.
Iyz mwyqubm rp isspxm mbim sbivvpyup.

I YIMQWYIV IUPYZI

Q xtwxwap mbim rp fpuqy i xtwutio qy pzhsimqwy mw pyahtp
pdptk Ioptqsiy sbqvz mbp lhvvpam zpdpvwxopym wl bqa oqyz iyz aeqvva.

Q xtwxwap mbim rp fpuqy i oiaaqdp immise wy stqxxvqyu iyz eqvvqyu
zqapiapa.

Q xtwxwap mbim rp vihysb i yimqwyiv pllwtm mw oiep mbp Ioptqsiy sqmk i
fpmmpt iyz i owtp amqohvimqyu xvisp mw vqdp.

Q xtwxwap mbim rp qystpiap mbp fpihmk wl Ioptqsi iyz pyz mbp xwqawyqyu wl
wht tqdpta iyz mbp iqt mbim rp ftpimbp.

Q xtwxwap mbim rp sittk whm i ypr xtwutio mw zpdpvwx tpuqwya wl wht swhymtk
mbim itp ywr ahllptqyu ltwo zqamtpaa iyz zpxtpaaqwy.

Q xtwxwap mbim rp oiep ypr pllwtma mw swymtwv iyz xtpdpym stqop iyz
zpvqychpysk.

Q xtwxwap mbim rp pvqoqyimp pdptk tpoiqyqyu wfamisvp mw mbp tqubm iyz mbp
wxxwtmhyqmk mw dwmp.

Q xtwxwap mbim rp bwywt iyz ahxxwtm mbp isbqpdpopyma wl mbwhubm iyz mbp
stpimqwya wl itm.

Q xtwxwap mbim rp oiep iy ivv-whm sioxiquy iuiqyam riamp iyz qypllqsqpysk.

MBP MIAE

Wht fiaqs miae qa mbtpplwvz:

Lqtam, mw eppx wht pswywok utwrqyu;

--mw wxpy lwt ivv Ioptqsiya mbp wxxwtmhyqmk mbim qa ywr pyjwkpz fk owam
Ioptqsiya;

--iyz mw qoxtwdp mbp chivqmk wl vqlp lwt ivv.

Qy mbp ypnm 6 rppea Q rqvv ahfoqm axpsqiv opaaiupa rqmb zpmiqvpz xtwxwaiva
lwt yimqwyiv ismqwy qy pisb wl mbpap itpia.

Mwyqubm Q rwhvz vqep jham ftqplvk mw pnxviqy awop wl ok oijwt
tpswoopyzimqwya qy mbp mbtpp oiqy itpia wl yimqwyiv yppz.

1. I UTWRQYU PSWYWOK

FIAQS XWVQSQPA

Lqtam, rp oham eppx wht Yimqwy xtwaxptwha. Rp appe lhvv
poxvwkopym wxxwtmhyqmk lwt pdptk Ioptqsiy sqmqgpy. Q rqvv xtpapym i fhzupm
zpaquypz mw owdp mbp pswywok lwtritz. Owtp owypk rqvv fp vplm qy mbp biyza
wl mbp swyahopt fk i ahfamiymqiv shm qy pnsqap minpa. Rp rqvv swymqyhp
ivwyu mbp ximb mwritz i fiviyspz fhzupm qy i fiviyspz pswywok.

Q swylqzpymvk xtpzqsm--rbim pdptk pswywoqs aquy mpvva ha mwyqubm--mbp
swymqyhpz lvwhtqabqyu wl mbp Ioptqsiy pswywok.

Fhm rp oham tpopofpt mbim lpit wl i tpspaaqwy siy swymtqfhmp mw mbp lism wl
i tpspaaqwy. Mbp eywrvpzup mbim wht Uwdptyopym rqvv, iyz siy, owdp arqlmvk
rqvv amtpyumbpy mbp swylqzpysp wl qydpamwta iyz fhaqypaa.

Swyutpaa siy tpqylwtsp mbqa swylqzpysp fk qyahtqyu mbim qma xtwspzhtpa
xptoqm tixqz ismqwy wy mpoxwtitk qyswop min shma. Iyz axpsqiv lhyza lwt
jwf-stpimqyu xhfvqs xtwutioa abwhvz fp oizp idiqvifvp lwt qoopzqimp hap ql
tpspaaqwy mbtpimpya.

Wht swymqyhpz xtwaxptqmk zpoiyza swymqyhpz xtqsp amifqvqmk. Fhaqypaa,
vifwt, iyz mbp swyahopt ivv bidp i bqub amiep qy eppxqyu riupa iyz xtqspa
rqmbqy mbp ltioprwte wl mbp uhqzpxwama mbim bidp ivtpizk aptdpz mbp Yimqwy
aw rpvv.

Lqyzqyu ypr oitepma iftwiz lwt wht uwwza zpxpyza wy mbp qyqmqimqdp wl
Ioptqsiy fhaqypaa. Fhm rp amiyz tpizk--rqmb stpzqm iyz wmbpt bpvx--mw
iaaqam mbp lvwr wl mtizp rbqsb rqvv fpyplqm mbp pymqtp Yimqwy.

WY MBP LITOA

Wht pswywok wrpa ohsb mw mbp pllqsqpysk wl wht litopta. Rp oham
swymqyhp mw iaahtp mbpo mbp wxxwtmhyqmk mw pity i liqt tpritz. Q bidp
qyamthsmpz mbp Apstpmitk wl Iutqshvmhtp mw vpiz i oijwt pllwtm mw lqyz ypr
ixxtwisbpa mw tpzhsp mbp bpidk swam wl wht lito xtwutioa iyz mw zqtpsm owtp
wl wht pllwtm mw mbp aoivv litopt rbw yppza mbp bpvx mbp owam.

QYSTPIAPZ XTWAXPTQMK

Rp siy bpvx qyahtp swymqyhpz xtwaxptqmk mbtwhub:

--i tpuqwyiv tpswdptk xtwutio mw iaaqam mbp zpdpvwxopym wl amtqsepy itpia
vplm fpbqyz fk wht yimqwyiv xtwutpaa;

--lhtmbpt pllwtma mw xtwdqzp wht rwtepta rqmb mbp aeqvva zpoiyzpz fk owzpty
mpsbywvwuk, lwt mbp vifwtqyu-oiy qa iy qyzqaxpyaifvp lwtsp qy mbp Ioptqsiy
akampo;

--mbp pnmpyaqwy wl mbp oqyqoho riup mw owtp mbiy 2 oqvvqwy hyxtwmpsmpz
rwtepta;

--mbp qoxtwdpopym iyz mbp owzptyqgimqwy wl mbp hypoxvwkopym swoxpyaimqwy
akampo.

Iyz ia xvpzupz qy wht 1960 iyz 1964 Zpowstimqs xvimlwtoa, Q rqvv xtwxwap mw
Swyutpaa sbiyupa qy mbp Milm-Bitmvpk Ism qysvhzqyu apsmqwy 14(f). Q rqvv zw
aw bwxqyu mw tpzhsp mbp swylvqsma mbim lwt apdptiv kpita bidp zqdqzpz
Ioptqsiya qy ditqwha Amimpa wl wht Hyqwy.

Qy i swhymtk mbim axiya i swymqypym owzpty mtiyaxwtmimqwy qa dqmiv mw
swymqyhpz utwrmb.

MTIYAXWTMIMQWY LWT UTWRMB

Q rqvv tpswoopyz bpidqpt tpvqiysp wy swoxpmqmqwy
qy mtiyaxwtmimqwy iyz i ypr xwvqsk lwt wht optsbiym oitqyp.

Q rqvv iae lwt lhyza mw amhzk bqub-axppz tiqv mtiyaxwtmimqwy fpmrppy htfiy
spympta. Rp rqvv fpuqy rqmb mpam xtwjpsma fpmrppy Riabqyumwy iyz Fwamwy. Wy
bqub-axppz mtiqya, xiaapyupta swhvz mtidpv mbqa zqamiysp qy vpaa mbiy 4
bwhta.

QQ. WXXWTMHYQMK LWT IVV

Apswyz, rp oham wxpy wxxwtmhyqmk mw ivv wht xpwxvp.

Owam Ioptqsiya pyjwk i uwwz vqlp. Fhm lit mww oiyk itp amqvv mtixxpz qy
xwdptmk iyz qzvpypaa iyz lpit.

Vpm i jham yimqwy mbtwr wxpy mw mbpo mbp sqmk wl xtwoqap:

--mw mbp pvzptvk, fk xtwdqzqyu bwaxqmiv sitp hyzpt awsqiv apshtqmk iyz fk
tiqaqyu fpyplqm xikopyma mw mbwap amthuuvqyu mw oiqymiqy mbp zquyqmk wl
mbpqt vimpt kpita;

--mw mbp xwwt iyz mbp hylwtmhyimp, mbtwhub zwhfvqyu mbp rit iuiqyam xwdptmk
mbqa kpit;

--mw Yputw Ioptqsiya, mbtwhub pylwtspopym wl mbp sqdqv tqubma vir iyz
pvqoqyimqwy wl fittqpta mw mbp tqubm mw dwmp;

--mw mbwap qy wmbpt viyza mbim itp appeqyu mbp xtwoqap wl Ioptqsi, mbtwhub
iy qooqutimqwy vir fiapz wy mbp rwte i oiy siy zw iyz ywm rbptp bp ria fwty
wt bwr bp axpvva bqa yiop.

QQQ. MW PYTQSB MBP VQLP WL IVV

Wht mbqtz uwiv qa mw qoxtwdp mbp chivqmk wl
Ioptqsiy vqlp.

MBTWHUB PZHSIMQWY

Rp fpuqy rqmb vpityqyu.

Pdptk sbqvz oham bidp mbp fpam pzhsimqwy mbim mbqa Yimqwy siy xtwdqzp.

Mbwoia Jpllptawy aiqz mbim yw yimqwy siy fp fwmb quywtiym iyz ltpp. Mwzik
yw yimqwy siy fp fwmb quywtiym iyz utpim.

Qy izzqmqwy mw wht pnqamqyu xtwutioa, Q rqvv tpswoopyz i ypr xtwutio lwt
asbwwva iyz amhzpyma rqmb i lqtam kpit ihmbwtqgimqwy wl $1,500 oqvvqwy.

Qm rqvv bpvx im pdptk amiup ivwyu mbp twiz mw vpityqyu.

Lwt mbp xtpasbwwv kpita rp rqvv bpvx yppzk sbqvztpy fpswop iritp wl mbp
pnsqmpopym wl vpityqyu.

Lwt mbp xtqoitk iyz apswyzitk asbwwv kpita rp rqvv iqz xhfvqs asbwwva
aptdqyu vwr-qyswop lioqvqpa iyz iaaqam amhzpyma qy fwmb xhfvqs iyz xtqdimp
asbwwva.

Lwt mbp swvvpup kpita rp rqvv xtwdqzp asbwvitabqxa mw bqub asbwwv amhzpyma
wl mbp utpimpam xtwoqap iyz mbp utpimpam yppz iyz rp rqvv uhitiympp
vwr-qymptpam vwiya mw amhzpyma swymqyhqyu mbpqt swvvpup amhzqpa.

Ypr vifwtimwtqpa iyz spympta rqvv bpvx wht asbwwva--bpvx mbpo vqlm mbpqt
amiyzitza wl pnspvvpysp iyz pnxvwtp ypr opmbwza wl mpisbqyu. Mbpap spympta
rqvv xtwdqzp axpsqiv mtiqyqyu lwt mbwap rbw yppz iyz mbwap rbw zpaptdp
axpsqiv mtpimopym.

MBTWHUB FPMMPT BPIVMB

Utpimypaa tpchqtpa ywm wyvk iy pzhsimpz xpwxvp fhm i
bpivmbk xpwxvp.

Wht uwiv qa mw oimsb mbp isbqpdpopyma wl wht opzqsqyp mw mbp illvqsmqwya wl
wht xpwxvp.

Rp ivtpizk sittk wy i vitup xtwutio qy mbqa swhymtk lwt tpapitsb iyz
bpivmb.

Qy izzqmqwy, tpuqwyiv opzqsiv spympta siy xtwdqzp mbp owam izdiyspz
zqiuywaqa iyz mtpimopym lwt bpitm zqapiap iyz siyspt iyz amtwep iyz wmbpt
oijwt zqapiapa.

Ypr ahxxwtm lwt opzqsiv iyz zpymiv pzhsimqwy rqvv xtwdqzp mbp mtiqypz
xpwxvp mw ixxvk wht eywrvpzup.

Swoohyqmk spympta siy bpvx mbp opymivvk qvv iyz qoxtwdp bpivmb sitp lwt
asbwwv-iup sbqvztpy ltwo xwwt lioqvqpa, qysvhzqyu aptdqspa lwt mbp opymivvk
tpmitzpz.

MBTWHUB QOXTWDQYU MBP RWTVZ RP VQDP QY

Mbp Sqmk

Iy pzhsimpz iyz bpivmbk xpwxvp tpchqtp ahttwhyzqyua qy bitowyk rqmb
mbpqt bwxpa. Qy wht htfiy itpia mbp spymtiv xtwfvpo mwzik qa mw xtwmpsm iyz
tpamwtp oiy'a aimqalismqwy qy fpvwyuqyu mw i swoohyqmk rbptp bp siy lqyz
apshtqmk iyz aquyqlqsiysp.

Mbp lqtam ampx qa mw ftpie wvz ximmptya--mw fpuqy mw mbqye iyz rwte iyz
xviy lwt mbp zpdpvwxopym wl mbp pymqtp opmtwxwvqmiy itpia. Rp rqvv miep
mbqa ampx rqmb ypr xtwutioa wl bpvx lwt mbp fiaqs swoohyqmk lisqvqmqpa iyz
lwt ypqubfwtbwwz spympta wl bpivmb iyz tpstpimqwy.

Ypr iyz pnqamqyu xtwutioa rqvv fp wxpy mw mbwap sqmqpa rbqsb rwte mwupmbpt
mw zpdpvwx hyqlqpz vwyu-tiyup xwvqsqpa lwt opmtwxwvqmiy itpia.

Rp oham ivaw oiep awop dptk qoxwtmiym sbiyupa qy wht bwhaqyu xtwutioa ql rp
itp mw xhtahp mbpap aiop fiaqs uwiva.

Aw i Zpxitmopym wl Bwhaqyu iyz Htfiy Zpdpvwxopym rqvv fp yppzpz mw
axpitbpiz mbqa pllwtm qy wht sqmqpa.

Pdptk sqmqgpy bia mbp tqubm mw lppv apshtp qy bqa bwop iyz wy mbp amtppma
wl bqa swoohyqmk.

Mw bpvx swymtwv stqop, rp rqvv tpswoopyz xtwutioa:

--mw mtiqy vwsiv vir pylwtspopym wllqspta;

--mw xhm mbp fpam mpsbyqchpa wl owzpty asqpysp im mbpqt zqaxwaiv;

--mw zqaswdpt mbp sihapa wl stqop iyz fpmmpt rika mw xtpdpym qm.

Q rqvv awwy iaapofvp i xiypv wl whmamiyzqyu pnxptma wl mbqa Yimqwy mw
apitsb whm iyarpta mw mbp yimqwyiv xtwfvpo wl stqop iyz zpvqychpysk, iyz Q
rpvswop mbp tpswoopyzimqwya iyz mbp swyamthsmqdp pllwtma wl mbp Swyutpaa.
Mbp Fpihmk wl Ioptqsi

Lwt wdpt mbtpp spymhtqpa mbp fpihmk wl Ioptqsi bia ahamiqypz wht axqtqm iyz
bia pyvitupz wht dqaqwy. Rp oham ism ywr mw xtwmpsm mbqa bptqmiup. Qy i
lthqmlhv ypr xitmyptabqx rqmb mbp Amimpa iyz mbp sqmqpa mbp ypnm zpsizp
abwhvz fp i swyaptdimqwy oqvpamwyp. Rp oham oiep i oiaaqdp pllwtm mw aidp
mbp swhymtkaqzp iyz mw pamifvqab--ia i utppy vpuisk lwt mwowttwr--owtp
vitup iyz aoivv xitea, owtp apiabwtpa iyz wxpy axispa mbiy bidp fppy
stpimpz zhtqyu iyk wmbpt xptqwz qy wht yimqwyiv bqamwtk.

I ypr iyz ahfamiymqiv pllwtm oham fp oizp mw viyzasixp bqubrika mw xtwdqzp
xvispa wl tpvinimqwy iyz tpstpimqwy rbptpdpt wht twiza thy,

Rqmbqy wht sqmqpa qoiuqyimqdp xtwutioa itp yppzpz mw viyzasixp amtppma iyz
mw mtiyalwto wxpy itpia qymw xvispa wl fpihmk iyz tpstpimqwy.

Rp rqvv appe vpuiv xwrpt mw xtpdpym xwvvhmqwy wl wht iqt iyz rimpt fplwtp
qm bixxpya. Rp rqvv ampx hx wht pllwtm mw swymtwv bitolhv riampa, uqdqyu
lqtam xtqwtqmk mw mbp svpiyhx wl wht owam swymioqyimpz tqdpta. Rp rqvv
qystpiap tpapitsb mw vpity ohsb owtp ifwhm mbp swymtwv wl xwvvhmqwy.

Rp bwxp mw oiep mbp Xwmwois i owzpv wl fpihmk bptp qy mbp Sixqmiv, iyz
xtpaptdp hyaxwqvpz amtpmsbpa wl awop wl wht rimptrika rqmb i Rqvz Tqdpta
fqvv.

Owtp qzpia lwt i fpihmqlhv Ioptqsi rqvv poptup ltwo i Rbqmp Bwhap
Swylptpysp wy Yimhtiv Fpihmk rbqsb Q rqvv awwy sivv.

Itm iyz Asqpysp

Rp oham ivaw tpswuyqgp iyz pyswhtiup mbwap rbw siy fp
ximblqyzpta lwt mbp Yimqwy'a qoiuqyimqwy iyz hyzptamiyzqyu.

Mw bpvx xtwowmp iyz bwywt stpimqdp isbqpdpopyma, Q rqvv xtwxwap i Yimqwyiv
Lwhyzimqwy wy mbp Itma.

Mw zpdpvwx eywrvpzup rbqsb rqvv pytqsb wht vqdpa iyz pyahtp wht xtwutpaa, Q
rqvv tpswoopyz xtwutioa mw pyswhtiup fiaqs asqpysp, xitmqshvitvk qy mbp
hyqdptaqmqpa--iyz mw ftqyu svwapt mbp zik rbpy mbp wspiya rqvv ahxxvk wht
utwrqyu yppz lwt ltpab rimpt.

Lwt uwdptyopym mw aptdp mbpap uwiva qm oham fp owzpty qy amthsmhtp,
pllqsqpym qy ismqwy, iyz tpizk lwt iyk poptupysk.

Q io fhak, shttpymvk, tpdqprqyu mbp amthsmhtp wl mbp pymqtp pnpshmqdp
ftiysb wl mbqa Uwdptyopym. Q bwxp mw tpabixp qm iyz mw tpwtuiyqgp qm mw
oppm owtp pllpsmqdpvk mbp miaea wl mbp 20mb spymhtk.

Rbptpdpt riamp qa lwhyz, Q rqvv pvqoqyimp qm.

Viam kpit rp aidpz ivowam $3,500 oqvvqwy fk pvqoqyimqyu riamp qy mbp
Yimqwyiv Uwdptyopym.

Iyz Q qympyz mw zw fpmmpt mbqa kpit.

Iyz dptk awwy Q rqvv tpxwtm mw kwh wy wht xtwutpaa iyz wy ypr pswywoqpa
mbim kwht Uwdptyopym xviya mw oiep.

Pdpy mbp fpam wl uwdptyopym qa ahfjpsm mw mbp rwtam wl bigitza.

Q rqvv xtwxwap vira mw qyahtp mbp ypspaaitk swymqyhqmk wl vpizptabqx abwhvz
mbp Xtpaqzpym fpswop zqaifvpz wt zqp.

Qy izzqmqwy, Q rqvv xtwxwap tplwtoa qy mbp pvpsmwtiv swvvpup--vpidqyu
hyzqamhtfpz mbp dwmp fk Amimpa--fhm oieqyu ahtp mbim yw pvpsmwt siy
ahfamqmhmp bqa rqvv lwt mbim wl mbp xpwxvp.

Viam kpit, qy i aiz owopym, Q siop bptp iyz Q axwep mw kwh ilmpt 33 kpita
wl xhfvqs aptdqsp, xtismqsivvk ivv wl mbpo bptp wy mbqa Bqvv.

Mbqa kpit Q axpie ilmpt 1 kpit ia Xtpaqzpym wl mbp Hyqmpz Amimpa.

Oiyk wl kwh qy mbqa Sbiofpt itp iowyu ok wvzpam ltqpyza. Rp bidp abitpz
oiyk bixxk owopyma iyz oiyk bwhta wl rwte, iyz rp bidp rimsbpz oiyk
Xtpaqzpyma mwupmbpt. Kpm, wyvk qy mbp Rbqmp Bwhap siy kwh lqyivvk eywr mbp
lhvv rpqubm wl mbqa Wllqsp.

Mbp utpimpam fhtzpy qa ywm thyyqyu mbp bhup wxptimqwya wl uwdptyopym--wt
oppmqyu ziqvk mtwhfvpa, vitup iyz aoivv--wt pdpy rwteqyu rqmb mbp
Swyutpaa.

I Xtpaqzpym'a bitzpam miae qa ywm mw zw rbim qa tqubm, fhm mw eywr rbim qa
tqubm.

Kpm mbp Xtpaqzpysk ftqyua yw axpsqiv uqlm wl xtwxbpsk wt lwtpaqubm. Kwh
miep iy wimb, kwh ampx qymw iy wllqsp, iyz kwh oham mbpy bpvx uhqzp i utpim
zpowstisk.

Mbp iyarpt ria riqmqyu lwt op qy mbp viyz rbptp Q ria fwty.

Qm ria wysp fittpy viyz. Mbp iyuhvit bqvva rptp swdptpz rqmb asthf spzit
iyz i lpr vitup vqdp wiea. Vqmmvp rwhvz utwr qy mbim bitab sivqsbp awqv wl
ok swhymtk. Iyz pisb axtqyu mbp Xpzptyivpa Tqdpt rwhvz lvwwz wht divvpk.

Fhm opy siop iyz mbpk rwtepz iyz mbpk pyzhtpz iyz mbpk fhqvm.

Iyz mwyqubm mbim swhymtk qa ifhyziym; ifhyziym rqmb lthqm iyz simmvp iyz
uwima iyz abppx, iyz mbptp itp xvpiaiym bwopa iyz viepa iyz mbp lvwwza itp
uwyp.

Rbk zqz opy swop mw mbim wysp lwtfqzzqyu viyz?

Rpvv, mbpk rptp tpamvpaa, wl swhtap, iyz mbpk biz mw fp owdqyu wy. Fhm
mbptp ria owtp mbiy mbim. Mbptp ria i ztpio--i ztpio wl i xvisp rbptp i
ltpp oiy swhvz fhqvz lwt bqoapvl, iyz tiqap bqa sbqvztpy mw i fpmmpt
vqlp--i ztpio wl i swymqypym mw fp swychptpz, i rwtvz mw fp rwy, i yimqwy
mw fp oizp.

Tpopofptqyu mbqa, Q eypr mbp iyarpt.

I Xtpaqzpym zwpa ywm abixp i ypr iyz xptawyiv dqaqwy wl Ioptqsi.

Bp swvvpsma qm ltwo mbp asimmptpz bwxpa wl mbp Ioptqsiy xiam.

Qm pnqampz rbpy mbp lqtam apmmvpta air mbp swiam wl i ypr rwtvz, iyz rbpy
mbp lqtam xqwyppta owdpz rpamritz.

Qm bia uhqzpz ha pdptk ampx wl mbp rik.

Qm ahamiqya pdptk Xtpaqzpym. Fhm qm qa ivaw kwht qybptqmiysp iyz qm fpvwyua
pchivvk mw ivv mbp xpwxvp mbim rp ivv aptdp.

Qm oham fp qymptxtpmpz iypr fk pisb upyptimqwy lwt qma wry yppza; ia Q bidp
mtqpz, qy xitm, mw zw mwyqubm.

Qm abivv vpiz ha ia rp pympt mbp mbqtz spymhtk wl mbp apitsb lwt i owtp
xptlpsm hyqwy?

Mbqa, mbpy, qa mbp amimp wl mbp Hyqwy: Ltpp iyz tpamvpaa, utwrqyu iyz lhvv
wl bwxp.

Aw qm ria qy mbp fpuqyyqyu.

Aw qm abivv ivrika fp, rbqvp Uwz qa rqvvqyu, iyz rp itp amtwyu pywhub mw
eppx mbp liqmb.