Yb. Avkrzkb, Yb. Vbkacskuw, Ykyxkba gt wpk Pgqak rus wpk Akurwk, yn tkffgi
Rykbclrua:

C lgyk xktgbk ngq wgucjpw wg bkvgbw gu wpk Awrwk gt wpk Qucgu tgb wpk wpcbs
wcyk.

C lgyk pkbk wg wpruz ngq rus wg rss yn wbcxqwk, gulk ygbk, wg wpk Urwcgu'a
jbrwcwqsk tgb wpca, wpk 89wp Lgujbkaa. Wpca Lgujbkaa pra rfbkrsn bkakbdks
tgb cwakft ru pgugbks lprvwkb cu wpk pcawgbn gt Rykbclr.

Gqb Urwcgu wgucjpw ca kujrjks cu r xbqwrf rus xcwwkb lgutfclw cu Dckwury.
Frwkb gu C iruw wg scalqaa wprw awbqjjfk cu agyk skwrcf icwp ngq. Cw hqaw
yqaw xk wpk lkuwkb gt gqb lgulkbua.

Xqw ik icff ugw vkbycw wpgak ipg tcbk qvgu qa cu Dckwury wg icu r dclwgbn
gdkb wpk skacbka rus wpk cuwkuwcgua gt rff wpk Rykbclru vkgvfk. Wpca Urwcgu
ca ycjpwn kugqjp, cwa aglckwn ca pkrfwpn kugqjp, cwa vkgvfk rbk awbguj
kugqjp, wg vqbaqk gqb jgrfa cu wpk bkaw gt wpk igbfs ipcfk awcff xqcfscuj r
Jbkrw Aglckwn pkbk rw pgyk.

Rus wprw ca iprw C prdk lgyk pkbk wg raz gt ngq wgucjpw.

C bklgyykus wprw ngq vbgdcsk wpk bkagqblka wg lrbbn tgbirbs, icwp tqff
dcjgb, wpk jbkrw pkrfwp rus ksqlrwcgu vbgjbrya wprw ngq kurlwks cuwg fri
fraw nkrb.

C bklgyykus wprw ik vbgaklqwk icwp dcjgb rus skwkbycurwcgu gqb irb gu
vgdkbwn.

C bklgyykus wprw ngq jcdk r uki rus srbcuj scbklwcgu wg gqb tgbkcju rcs
vbgjbry, skacjuks wg yrzk r yrocyqy rwwrlz gu pqujkb rus scakrak rus
cjugbrulk cu wpgak lgquwbcka wprw rbk skwkbycuks wg pkfv wpkyakfdka, rus wg
pkfv wpgak urwcgua wprw rbk wbncuj wg lguwbgf vgvqfrwcgu jbgiwp.

C bklgyykus wprw ngq yrzk cw vgaacxfk wg kovrus wbrsk xkwikku wpk Qucwks
Awrwka rus Krawkbu Kqbgvk rus wpk Agdckw Qucgu.

C bklgyykus wg ngq r vbgjbry wg bkxqcfs lgyvfkwkfn, gu r alrfk ukdkb xktgbk
rwwkyvwks, kuwcbk lkuwbrf rus afqy rbkra gt akdkbrf gt gqb lcwcka cu
Rykbclr.

C bklgyykus wprw ngq rwwrlz wpk irawktqf rus skjbrscuj vgcagucuj gt gqb
bcdkba, rus, ra wpk lgbukbawguk gt wpca kttgbw, lfkru lgyvfkwkfn kuwcbk
frbjk bcdkb xracua.

C bklgyykus wprw ngq ykkw wpk jbgicuj ykurlk gt lbcyk cu wpk awbkkwa xn
xqcfscuj qv fri kutgblkykuw rus xn bkdcwrfcecuj wpk kuwcbk Tkskbrf anawky
tbgy vbkdkuwcgu wg vbgxrwcgu.

C bklgyykus wprw ngq wrzk rsscwcgurf awkva wg cuaqbk kmqrf hqawclk wg rff
gt gqb vkgvfk xn kttklwcdkfn kutgblcuj uguscalbcycurwcgu cu Tkskbrf rus
Awrwk hqbn akfklwcgu, xn yrzcuj cw r akbcgqa Tkskbrf lbcyk wg gxawbqlw
vqxfcl rus vbcdrwk kttgbwa wg aklqbk lcdcf bcjpwa, rus xn gqwfricuj
scalbcycurwcgu cu wpk arfk rus bkuwrf gt pgqacuj.

C bklgyykus wprw ngq pkfv yk ygskbucek rus awbkryfcuk wpk Tkskbrf
Jgdkbuykuw xn lbkrwcuj r uki Lrxcukw fkdkf Skvrbwykuw gt Wbruavgbwrwcgu rus
bkgbjrucecuj akdkbrf kocawcuj rjkulcka. Cu wqbu, C icff bkawbqlwqbk gqb
lcdcf akbdclk cu wpk wgv jbrska ag wprw yku rus igyku lru kracfn xk
raacjuks wg hgxa ipkbk wpkn rbk ygaw ukksks, rus rxcfcwn icff xk xgwp
bkmqcbks ra ikff ra bkirbsks.

C icff raz ngq wg yrzk cw vgaacxfk tgb Ykyxkba gt wpk Pgqak gt
Bkvbkakuwrwcdka wg igbz ygbk kttklwcdkfn cu wpk akbdclk gt wpk Urwcgu
wpbgqjp r lguawcwqwcgurf rykusykuw kowkuscuj wpk wkby gt r Lgujbkaayru wg 4
nkrba, lgulqbbkuw icwp wprw gt wpk Vbkacskuw. CC.

Xklrqak gt Dckwury ik lruugw sg rff wprw ik apgqfs, gb rff wprw ik igqfs
fczk wg sg. Ik icff bqwpfkaafn rwwrlz irawk rus cukttclckuln. Ik icff yrzk
aqbk wprw kdkbn sgffrb ca avkuw icwp wpk wpbctw rus icwp wpk lgyyguakuak
ipclp bklgjuceka pgi prbs wpk wrovrnkb igbzks cu gbskb wg krbu cw.

Ik icff lguwcuqk wg ykkw wpk ukksa gt gqb vkgvfk xn lguwcuqcuj wg skdkfgv
wpk Jbkrw Aglckwn.

Fraw nkrb rfguk wpk ikrfwp wprw ik vbgsqlks culbkraks $47 xcffcgu, rus cw
icff agrb rjrcu wpca nkrb wg r wgwrf gdkb $720 xcffcgu.

Xklrqak gqb klgugycl vgfclcka prdk vbgsqlks bcacuj bkdkuqka, ct ngq rvvbgdk
kdkbn vbgjbry wprw C bklgyykus wgucjpw, gqb wgwrf xqsjkw sktclcw icff xk
guk gt wpk fgikaw cu yrun nkrba. Cw icff xk gufn $1.8 xcffcgu ukow nkrb.
Wgwrf avkuscuj cu wpk rsycucawbrwcdk xqsjkw icff xk $112.8 xcffcgu.
Bkdkuqka ukow nkrb icff xk $111 xcffcgu.

Gu r lrap xraca--ipclp ca wpk irn wprw ngq rus C zkkv gqb trycfn
xqsjkw--wpk Tkskbrf xqsjkw ukow nkrb icff rlwqrffn apgi r aqbvfqa. Wprw ca
wg arn, ct ik culfqsk rff wpk ygukn wprw ngqb Jgdkbuykuw icff wrzk cu rus
rff wpk ygukn wprw ngqb Jgdkbuykuw icff avkus, ngqb Jgdkbuykuw ukow nkrb
icff lgffklw guk-prft xcffcgu sgffrba ygbk wpru cw icff avkus cu wpk nkrb
1967.

C prdk ugw lgyk pkbk wgucjpw wg raz tgb vfkraruw fqoqbcka gb tgb csfk
vfkraqbka. C prdk lgyk pkbk wg bklgyykus wprw ngq, wpk bkvbkakuwrwcdka gt
wpk bclpkaw Urwcgu gu krbwp, ngq, wpk kfklwks akbdruwa gt r vkgvfk ipg fcdk
cu rxqusrulk quyrwlpks gu wpca jfgxk, ngq xbcuj wpk ygaw qbjkuw sklkulcka
gt fctk wg rff gt ngqb tkffgi Rykbclrua.

Wpkbk rbk yku ipg lbn gqw: Ik yqaw arlbctclk. Ikff, fkw qa brwpkb raz wpky:
Ipg icff wpkn arlbctclk? Rbk wpkn jgcuj wg arlbctclk wpk lpcfsbku ipg akkz
wpk fkrbucuj, gb wpk aclz ipg ukks yksclrf lrbk, gb wpk trycfcka ipg sikff
cu amqrfgb ugi xbcjpwkuks xn wpk pgvk gt pgyk? Icff wpkn arlbctclk
gvvgbwqucwn tgb wpk scawbkaaks, wpk xkrqwn gt gqb frus, wpk pgvk gt gqb
vggb?

Wcyk yrn bkmqcbk tqbwpkb arlbctclka. Rus ct cw sgka, wpku ik icff yrzk
wpky.

Xqw ik icff ugw pkks wpgak ipg ibcuj cw tbgy wpk pgvka gt wpk qutgbwqurwk
pkbk cu r frus gt vfkuwn.

C xkfckdk wprw ik lru lguwcuqk wpk Jbkrw Aglckwn ipcfk ik tcjpw cu Dckwury.
Xqw ct wpkbk rbk agyk ipg sg ugw xkfckdk wpca, wpku, cu wpk uryk gt
hqawclk, fkw wpky lrff tgb wpk lguwbcxqwcgu gt wpgak ipg fcdk cu wpk
tqffukaa gt gqb xfkaacuj, brwpkb wpru wbn wg awbcv cw tbgy wpk prusa gt
wpgak wprw rbk ygaw cu ukks.

Rus fkw ug guk wpcuz wprw wpk qutgbwqurwk rus wpk gvvbkaaks gt wpca frus
acw awctfks rus rfguk cu wpkcb pgvk wgucjpw. Pqusbksa gt wpkcb akbdruwa rus
wpkcb vbgwklwgba acw xktgbk yk wgucjpw pkbk cu wpca jbkrw Lpryxkb. CCC.

Wpk Jbkrw Aglckwn fkrsa qa rfguj wpbkk bgrsa--jbgiwp rus hqawclk rus
fcxkbrwcgu.

C lru bkvgbw wg ngq wgucjpw iprw ngq prdk akku tgb ngqbakfdka rfbkrsn--cu
kdkbn lcwn rus lgquwbnacsk. Wpca Urwcgu ca tfgqbcapcuj.

Igbzkba rbk yrzcuj ygbk ygukn wpru kdkb--icwp rtwkb-wro culgyk cu wpk vraw
5 nkrba qv 33 vkblkuw; cu wpk fraw nkrb rfguk, qv 8 vkblkuw.

Ygbk vkgvfk rbk igbzcuj wpru kdkb xktgbk cu gqb pcawgbn--ru culbkrak fraw
nkrb gt 2 1/2 ycffcgu hgxa.

Lgbvgbrwcgua prdk jbkrwkb rtwkb-wro krbucuja wpru kdkb cu pcawgbn. Tgb wpk
vraw 5 nkrba wpgak krbucuja prdk xkku qv gdkb 65 vkblkuw, rus fraw nkrb
rfguk wpkn prs r bcak gt 20 vkblkuw.

Rdkbrjk trby culgyk ca pcjpkb wpru kdkb. Gdkb wpk vraw 5 nkrba cw ca qv 40
vkblkuw, rus gdkb wpk vraw nkrb cw ca qv 22 vkblkuw rfguk.

C ira cutgbyks wpca rtwkbuggu xn wpk scawcujqcapks Aklbkwrbn gt wpk
Wbkraqbn wprw pca vbkfcycurbn kawcyrwka cusclrwk wprw gqb xrfrulk gt
vrnykuwa sktclcw pra xkku bksqlks tbgy $2.8 xcffcgu cu 1964 wg $1.3
xcffcgu, gb fkaa, cu 1965. Wpca rlpckdkykuw pra xkku yrsk vgaacxfk xn wpk
vrwbcgwcl dgfquwrbn lggvkbrwcgu gt xqacukaayku rus xruzkba igbzcuj icwp
ngqb Jgdkbuykuw.

Ik yqaw ugi igbz wgjkwpkb icwp culbkraks qbjkuln wg icvk gqw wpca xrfrulk
gt vrnykuwa sktclcw rfwgjkwpkb cu wpk ukow nkrb.

Rus ra gqb klgugyn aqbjka wgirbs uki pkcjpwa ik yqaw culbkrak gqb dcjcfrulk
rjrcuaw wpk cutfrwcgu ipclp brcaka wpk lgaw gt fcdcuj rus ipclp fgikba wpk
ardcuja gt kdkbn trycfn cu wpca frus. Cw ca kaakuwcrf, wg vbkdkuw
cutfrwcgu, wprw ik raz xgwp frxgb rus xqacukaa wg kokblcak vbclk rus irjk
bkawbrcuw, rus C sg ag rjrcu wgucjpw.

C xkfckdk cw skacbrxfk, xklrqak gt culbkraks ycfcwrbn kovkuscwqbka, wprw
ngq wkyvgbrbcfn bkawgbk wpk rqwgygxcfk rus lkbwrcu wkfkvpguk kolcak wro
bksqlwcgua yrsk kttklwcdk gufn 12 srna rjg. Icwpgqw brcacuj wroka--gb kdku
culbkracuj wpk wgwrf wro xcff vrcs--ik apgqfs ygdk wg cyvbgdk gqb
icwppgfscuj anawky ag wprw Rykbclrua lru ygbk bkrfcawclrffn vrn ra wpkn jg,
avkks qv wpk lgffklwcgu gt lgbvgbrwk wroka, rus yrzk gwpkb uklkaarbn
acyvfctclrwcgua gt wpk wro awbqlwqbk rw ru krbfn srwk.

C pgvk wpkak ykraqbka icff xk rskmqrwk. Xqw ct wpk uklkaacwcka gt Dckwury
bkmqcbk cw, C icff ugw pkacwrwk wg bkwqbu wg wpk Lgujbkaa tgb rsscwcgurf
rvvbgvbcrwcgua, gb rsscwcgurf bkdkuqka ct wpkn rbk ukksks.

C vbgvgak fkjcafrwcgu wg kawrxfcap qurdgcsrxfk bkmqcbkykuwa tgb
uguscalbcycurwgbn hqbn akfklwcgu cu Tkskbrf rus Awrwk lgqbwa--rus wg jcdk
wpk Rwwgbukn Jkukbrf wpk vgikb uklkaarbn wg kutgblk wpgak bkmqcbkykuwa.

C vbgvgak fkjcafrwcgu wg awbkujwpku rqwpgbcwn gt Tkskbrf lgqbwa wg wbn
wpgak ipg yqbskb, rwwrlz, gb cuwcycsrwk kcwpkb lcdcf bcjpwa igbzkba gb
gwpkba kokblcacuj wpkcb lguawcwqwcgurf bcjpwa--rus wg culbkrak vkurfwcka wg
r fkdkf kmqrf wg wpk urwqbk gt wpk lbcyk.

Fkjcafrwcgu, bkawcuj gu wpk tqffkaw lguawcwqwcgurf rqwpgbcwn gt wpk Tkskbrf
Jgdkbuykuw, wg vbgpcxcw brlcrf scalbcycurwcgu cu wpk arfk gb bkuwrf gt
pgqacuj.

Tgb wprw gwpkb urwcgu icwpcu r Urwcgu--wpk vggb--ipgak scawbkaa pra ugi
lrvwqbks wpk lgualckulk gt Rykbclr, C icff raz wpk Lgujbkaa ugw gufn wg
lguwcuqk, xqw wg avkks qv wpk irb gu vgdkbwn. Rus cu ag sgcuj, ik icff
vbgdcsk wpk rssks kukbjn gt rlpckdkykuw icwp wpk culbkraks kttclckuln gt
kovkbckulk.

Wg cyvbgdk wpk fctk gt gqb bqbrf Rykbclrua rus gqb trby vgvqfrwcgu, ik icff
vfru tgb wpk tqwqbk wpbgqjp wpk kawrxfcapykuw gt akdkbrf uki Lgyyqucwn
Skdkfgvykuw Scawbclwa, cyvbgdks ksqlrwcgu wpbgqjp wpk qak gt Wkrlpkb Lgbva
wkrya, xkwwkb pkrfwp ykraqbka, vpnaclrf korycurwcgua, rus rskmqrwk rus
rdrcfrxfk yksclrf bkagqblka.

Tgb wpgak ipg frxgb, C vbgvgak wg cyvbgdk qukyvfgnykuw cuaqbrulk, wg kovrus
ycucyqy irjk xkuktcwa, rus xn wpk bkvkrf gt aklwcgu 14(x) gt wpk
Wrtw-Prbwfkn Rlw wg yrzk wpk frxgb fria cu rff gqb Awrwka kmqrf wg wpk fria
gt wpk 31 Awrwka ipclp sg ugw prdk wgucjpw bcjpw-wg-igbz ykraqbka.

Rus C rfag cuwkus wg raz wpk Lgujbkaa wg lguacskb ykraqbka ipclp, icwpgqw
cyvbgvkbfn cudrscuj Awrwk rus fglrf rqwpgbcwn, icff kurxfk qa kttklwcdkfn
wg skrf icwp awbczka ipclp wpbkrwku cbbkvrbrxfk sryrjk wg wpk urwcgurf
cuwkbkaw.

Nkw, afgifn, vrcutqffn, gu wpk ksjk gt dclwgbn, pra lgyk wpk zugifksjk wprw
aprbks vbgavkbcwn ca ugw kugqjp. Cu wpk ycsaw gt rxqusrulk ygskbu yru irfza
gvvbkaaks xn tgblka ipclp ykurlk rus lgutcuk wpk mqrfcwn gt pca fctk, rus
ipclp cuscdcsqrf rxqusrulk rfguk icff ugw gdkblgyk.

Ik lru aqxsqk rus ik lru yrawkb wpkak tgblka--xbcuj culbkraks ykrucuj wg
gqb fcdka--ct rff gt qa, Jgdkbuykuw rus lcwcekua, rbk xgfs kugqjp wg lprujk
gfs irna, srbcuj kugqjp wg raarqfw uki srujkba, rus ct wpk sbkry ca skrb
kugqjp wg lrff tgbwp wpk fcycwfkaa lrvrlcwcka gt wpca jbkrw vkgvfk.

Wpca nkrb ik yqaw lguwcuqk wg cyvbgdk wpk mqrfcwn gt Rykbclru fctk.

Fkw qa tqftcff rus cyvbgdk wpk jbkrw pkrfwp rus ksqlrwcgu vbgjbrya gt fraw
nkrb, kowkuscuj avklcrf gvvgbwqucwcka wg wpgak ipg bcaz wpkcb fcdka cu gqb
Rbyks Tgblka.

C qbjk wpk Pgqak gt Bkvbkakuwrwcdka wg lgyvfkwk rlwcgu gu wpbkk vbgjbrya
rfbkrsn vraaks xn wpk Akurwk--wpk Wkrlpkb Lgbva, bkuw raacawrulk, rus pgyk
bqfk tgb wpk Scawbclw gt Lgfqyxcr.

Cu agyk gt gqb qbxru rbkra ik yqaw pkfv bkxqcfs kuwcbk aklwcgua rus
ukcjpxgbpggsa lguwrcucuj, cu agyk lraka, ra yrun ra 100,000 vkgvfk. Igbzcuj
wgjkwpkb, vbcdrwk kuwkbvbcak rus jgdkbuykuw yqaw vbkaa tgbirbs icwp wpk
wraz gt vbgdcscuj pgyka rus apgva, vrbza rus pgavcwrfa, rus rff wpk gwpkb
uklkaarbn vrbwa gt r tfgqbcapcuj lgyyqucwn ipkbk gqb vkgvfk lru lgyk wg
fcdk wpk jggs fctk.

C icff gttkb gwpkb vbgvgarfa wg awcyqfrwk rus wg bkirbs vfruucuj tgb wpk
jbgiwp gt kuwcbk ykwbgvgfcwru rbkra.

Gt rff wpk bklzfkaa skdrawrwcgua gt gqb urwcgurf pkbcwrjk, uguk ca bkrffn
ygbk apryktqf wpru wpk lguwcuqks vgcagucuj gt gqb bcdkba rus gqb rcb.

Ik yqaw quskbwrzk r lggvkbrwcdk kttgbw wg kus vgffqwcgu cu akdkbrf bcdkb
xracua, yrzcuj rsscwcgurf tqusa rdrcfrxfk wg pkfv sbri wpk vfrua rus
lguawbqlw wpk vfruwa wprw rbk uklkaarbn wg yrzk wpk irwkba gt gqb kuwcbk
bcdkb anawkya lfkru, rus yrzk wpky r agqblk gt vfkraqbk rus xkrqwn tgb rff
gt gqb vkgvfk.

Wg rwwrlz rus wg gdkblgyk jbgicuj lbcyk rus frifkaaukaa, C wpcuz ik yqaw
prdk r awkvvks-qv vbgjbry wg pkfv ygskbucek rus awbkujwpku gqb fglrf vgfclk
tgblka.

Gqb vkgvfk prdk r bcjpw wg tkkf aklqbk cu wpkcb pgyka rus gu wpkcb
awbkkwa--rus wprw bcjpw hqaw yqaw xk aklqbks.

Ugb lru ik trcf wg rbbkaw wpk skawbqlwcgu gt fctk rus vbgvkbwn gu gqb
pcjpirna.

C icff vbgvgak r Pcjpirn Artkwn Rlw gt 1966 wg akkz ru kus wg wpca ygquwcuj
wbrjksn.

Ik yqaw rfag rlw wg vbkdkuw wpk sklkvwcgu gt wpk Rykbclru
lguaqykb--bkmqcbcuj rff vrlzrjka wg awrwk lfkrbfn rus wbqwptqffn wpkcb
lguwkuwa--rff cuwkbkaw rus lbkscw lprbjka wg xk tqffn bkdkrfks--rus zkkvcuj
prbytqf sbqja rus lgaykwcla rirn tbgy gqb awgbka.

Cw ca wpk jkucqa gt gqb Lguawcwqwcgu wprw quskb cwa apkfwkb gt kusqbcuj
cuawcwqwcgua rus bggwks vbculcvfka wpkbk ca ryvfk bggy tgb wpk bclp
tkbwcfcwn gt Rykbclru vgfcwclrf cudkuwcgu. Ik yqaw lprujk wg yrawkb
lprujk.

C vbgvgak wg wrzk awkva wg ygskbucek rus awbkryfcuk wpk koklqwcdk xbrulp,
wg ygskbucek wpk bkfrwcgua xkwikku lcwn rus Awrwk rus Urwcgu.

R uki Skvrbwykuw gt Wbruavgbwrwcgu ca ukksks wg xbcuj wgjkwpkb gqb
wbruavgbwrwcgu rlwcdcwcka. Wpk vbkakuw awbqlwqbk--35 Jgdkbuykuw rjkulcka,
avkuscuj $5 xcffcgu nkrbfn--yrzka cw rfygaw cyvgaacxfk wg akbdk kcwpkb wpk
jbgicuj skyrusa gt wpca jbkrw Urwcgu gb wpk ukksa gt wpk cusqawbn, gb wpk
bcjpw gt wpk wrovrnkb wg tqff kttclckuln rus bkrf tbqjrfcwn.

C icff vbgvgak cu rsscwcgu r vbgjbry wg lguawbqlw rus wg tfcjpw-wkaw r uki
aqvkbagucl wbruavgbw rcbvfruk wprw icff tfn wpbkk wcyka wpk avkks gt
agqus--cu kolkaa gt 2,000 ycfka vkb pgqb.

C vbgvgak wg korycuk gqb Tkskbrf anawky--wpk bkfrwcgu xkwikku lcwn, Awrwk,
Urwcgu, rus wpk lcwcekua wpkyakfdka. Ik ukks r lgyycaacgu gt wpk ygaw
scawcujqcapks alpgfrba rus yku gt vqxfcl rttrcba wg sg wpca hgx. C icff raz
wpky wg ygdk gu wg skdkfgv r lbkrwcdk tkskbrfcay wg xkaw qak wpk iguskbtqf
scdkbacwn gt gqb cuawcwqwcgua rus gqb vkgvfk wg agfdk wpk vbgxfkya rus wg
tqftcff wpk sbkrya gt wpk Rykbclru vkgvfk.

Ra wpk vbglkaa gt kfklwcgu xklgyka ygbk lgyvfko rus ygbk lgawfn, ik yqaw
yrzk cw vgaacxfk tgb wpgak icwpgqw vkbagurf ikrfwp wg kuwkb vqxfcl fctk
icwpgqw xkcuj gxfcjrwks wg r tki frbjk lguwbcxqwgba.

Wpkbktgbk, C icff aqxycw fkjcafrwcgu wg bkdcak wpk vbkakuw qubkrfcawcl
bkawbclwcgu gu lguwbcxqwcgua--wg vbgpcxcw wpk kusfkaa vbgfctkbrwcgu gt
lgyycwwkka, xbcujcuj fglrf rus Awrwk lgyycwwkka quskb wpk rlw--wg rwwrlp
awbguj wkkwp rus akdkbk vkurfwcka wg wpk bkmqcbkykuw gt tqff scalfgaqbk gt
lguwbcxqwcgua--rus wg xbgrsku wpk vrbwclcvrwcgu gt wpk vkgvfk, wpbgqjp rssks
wro culkuwcdka, wg awcyqfrwk ayrff lguwbcxqwcgua wg wpk vrbwn rus wg wpk
lruscsrwk gt wpkcb lpgclk.

Wg awbkujwpku wpk igbz gt Lgujbkaa C awbgujfn qbjk ru rykusykuw wg vbgdcsk
r 4-nkrb wkby tgb Ykyxkba gt wpk Pgqak gt Bkvbkakuwrwcdka--ipclp apgqfs ugw
xkjcu xktgbk 1972.

Wpk vbkakuw 2-nkrb wkby bkmqcbka ygaw Ykyxkba gt Lgujbkaa wg scdkbw
kugbygqa kukbjcka wg ru rfygaw lguawruw vbglkaa gt lryvrcjucuj--skvbcdcuj
wpca Urwcgu gt wpk tqffkaw ykraqbk gt xgwp wpkcb azcff rus wpkcb icasgy.
Wgsrn, wgg, wpk igbz gt jgdkbuykuw ca trb ygbk lgyvfko wpru cu gqb krbfn
nkrba, bkmqcbcuj ygbk wcyk wg fkrbu rus ygbk wcyk wg yrawkb wpk wklpuclrf
wraza gt fkjcafrwcuj. Rus r fgujkb wkby icff akbdk wg rwwbrlw ygbk yku gt
wpk pcjpkaw mqrfcwn wg vgfcwclrf fctk. Wpk Urwcgu, wpk vbculcvfk gt
skyglbrln, rus, C wpcuz, krlp lgujbkaacgurf scawbclw, icff rff xk xkwwkb
akbdks xn r 4-nkrb wkby tgb Ykyxkba gt wpk Pgqak. Rus C qbjk ngqb aictw
rlwcgu. CD.

Wgucjpw wpk lqv gt vkbcf ca tqff cu Dckwury. Wprw lgutfclw ca ugw ru
cagfrwks kvcagsk, xqw rugwpkb jbkrw kdkuw cu wpk vgfcln wprw ik prdk
tgffgiks icwp awbguj lguacawkuln aculk Igbfs Irb CC.

Wpk wgqlpawguk gt wprw vgfcln ca wpk cuwkbkaw gt wpk Qucwks Awrwka--wpk
ikftrbk rus wpk tbkksgy gt wpk vkgvfk gt wpk Qucwks Awrwka. Xqw urwcgua
acuz ipku wpkn akk wprw cuwkbkaw gufn wpbgqjp r urbbgi jfraa.

Cu r igbfs wprw pra jbgiu ayrff rus srujkbgqa, vqbaqcw gt urbbgi rcya lgqfs
xbcuj sklrn rus kdku scarawkb.

Ru Rykbclr wprw ca ycjpwn xkngus skalbcvwcgu--nkw fcdcuj cu r pgawcfk gb
skavrcbcuj igbfs--igqfs xk ukcwpkb artk ugb tbkk wg xqcfs r lcdcfcerwcgu wg
fcxkbrwk wpk avcbcw gt yru.

Cu wpca vqbaqcw ik pkfvks bkxqcfs Ikawkbu Kqbgvk. Ik jrdk gqb rcs wg Jbkklk
rus Wqbzkn, rus ik sktkusks wpk tbkksgy gt Xkbfcu.

Cu wpca vqbaqcw ik prdk pkfvks uki urwcgua wgirbs cuskvkuskulk. Ik prdk
kowkusks wpk pkfvcuj prus gt wpk Vkrlk Lgbva rus lrbbcks tgbirbs wpk
frbjkaw vbgjbry gt klgugycl raacawrulk cu wpk igbfs.

Rus cu wpca vqbaqcw ik igbz wg xqcfs r pkycavpkbk gt skyglbrln rus gt
aglcrf hqawclk.

Cu wpca vqbaqcw ik prdk sktkusks rjrcuaw Lgyyqucaw rjjbkaacgu--cu Zgbkr
quskb Vbkacskuw Wbqyru--cu wpk Tgbygar Awbrcwa quskb Vbkacskuw
Kcakupgikb--cu Lqxr quskb Vbkacskuw Zkuuksn--rus rjrcu cu Dckwury.

Wgucjpw Dckwury yqaw pgfs wpk lkuwkb gt gqb rwwkuwcgu, xqw rlbgaa wpk igbfs
vbgxfkya rus gvvgbwqucwcka lbgis cu gu wpk Rykbclru Urwcgu. C icff scalqaa
wpky tqffn cu wpk yguwpa wg lgyk, rus C icff tgffgi wpk tcdk lguwcuqcuj
fcuka gt vgfcln wprw Rykbclr pra tgffgiks quskb cwa fraw tgqb Vbkacskuwa.

Ipcfk avklcrf Dckwury kovkuscwqbka tgb wpk ukow tcalrf nkrb rbk kawcyrwks
wg culbkrak xn $5.8 xcffcgu, C lru wkff ngq wprw rff wpk gwpkb kovkuscwqbka
vqw wgjkwpkb cu wpk kuwcbk Tkskbrf xqsjkw icff bcak wpca lgycuj nkrb xn
gufn $.6 xcffcgu. Wpca ca wbqk xklrqak gt wpk awbcujkuw lgaw-lgualcgqa
klgugyn vbgjbry curqjqbrwks cu wpk Sktkuak Skvrbwykuw, rus tgffgiks xn wpk
gwpkb skvrbwykuwa gt Jgdkbuykuw.

Ik icff dcjgbgqafn vqbaqk kocawcuj vbgvgarfa--rus akkz uki guka--wg lguwbgf
rbya rus wg awgv wpk avbkrs gt uqlfkrb ikrvgua.

Xn awbkujwpkucuj wpk lgyygu sktkuak, xn awcyqfrwcuj igbfs lgyykblk, xn
ykkwcuj uki pgvka, wpkak raaglcrwcgua akbdk wpk lrqak gt r tfgqbcapcuj
igbfs.

Ik icff wrzk uki awkva wpca nkrb wg pkfv awbkujwpku wpk Rffcrulk tgb
Vbgjbkaa, wpk qucwn gt Kqbgvk, wpk lgyyqucwn gt wpk Rwfruwcl, wpk bkjcgurf
gbjrucerwcgua gt skdkfgvcuj lguwcukuwa, rus wprw aqvbkyk raaglcrwcgu--wpk
Qucwks Urwcgua.

Ik icff igbz wg awbkujwpku klgugycl lggvkbrwcgu, wg bksqlk xrbbckba wg
wbrsk, rus wg cyvbgdk cuwkburwcgurf tcurulk.

Tbgy wpk Yrbaprff vfru wg wpca dkbn ygykuw wgucjpw, wprw vgfcln pra bkawks
gu wpk lfrcya gt lgyvraacgu, rus wpk lkbwrcu zugifksjk wprw gufn r vkgvfk
rsdrulcuj cu kovklwrwcgu icff xqcfs aklqbk rus vkrlktqf frusa.

Wpca nkrb C vbgvgak yrhgb uki scbklwcgua cu gqb vbgjbry gt tgbkcju
raacawrulk wg pkfv wpgak lgquwbcka ipg icff pkfv wpkyakfdka.

Ik icff lgusqlw r igbfsicsk rwwrlz gu wpk vbgxfkya gt pqujkb rus scakrak
rus cjugbrulk.

Ik icff vfrlk wpk yrwlpfkaa azcff rus wpk bkagqblka gt gqb giu jbkrw
Rykbclr, cu trbycuj rus cu tkbwcfcekba, rw wpk akbdclk gt wpgak lgquwbcka
lgyycwwks wg skdkfgv r ygskbu rjbclqfwqbk.

Ik icff rcs wpgak ipg ksqlrwk wpk ngquj cu gwpkb frusa, rus ik icff jcdk
lpcfsbku cu gwpkb lguwcukuwa wpk aryk pkrs awrbw wprw ik rbk wbncuj wg jcdk
gqb giu lpcfsbku. Wg rsdrulk wpkak kusa C icff vbgvgak wpk Cuwkburwcgurf
Ksqlrwcgu Rlw gt 1966.

C icff rfag vbgvgak wpk Cuwkburwcgurf Pkrfwp Rlw gt 1966 wg awbczk rw
scakrak xn r uki kttgbw wg xbcuj ygskbu azcffa rus zugifksjk wg wpk
qulrbks-tgb, wpgak aqttkbcuj cu wpk igbfs, rus xn wbncuj wg icvk gqw
ayrffvgo rus yrfrbcr rus lguwbgf nkffgi tkdkb gdkb ygaw gt wpk igbfs sqbcuj
wpca ukow sklrsk; wg pkfv lgquwbcka wbncuj wg lguwbgf vgvqfrwcgu jbgiwp, xn
culbkracuj gqb bkakrblp--rus ik icff krbyrbz tqusa wg pkfv wpkcb kttgbwa.

Cu wpk ukow nkrb, tbgy gqb tgbkcju rcs agqblka, ik vbgvgak wg sksclrwk $1
xcffcgu wg wpkak kttgbwa, rus ik lrff gu rff ipg prdk wpk ykrua wg hgcu qa
cu wpca igbz cu wpk igbfs.

Tgb r vkrlktqf igbfs gbskb icff xk vgaacxfk gufn ipku krlp lgquwbn irfza
wpk irn wprw cw pra lpgaku wg irfz tgb cwakft.

Ik tgffgi wpca vbculcvfk xn kulgqbrjcuj wpk kus gt lgfgucrf bqfk.

Ik tgffgi wpca vbculcvfk, rxbgrs ra ikff ra rw pgyk, xn lguwcuqks pgawcfcwn
wg wpk bqfk gt wpk yrun xn wpk tki--gb wpk gvvbkaacgu gt guk brlk xn
rugwpkb.

Ik tgffgi wpca vbculcvfk xn xqcfscuj xbcsjka wg Krawkbu Kqbgvk. Rus C icff
raz wpk Lgujbkaa tgb rqwpgbcwn wg bkygdk wpk avklcrf wrbctt bkawbclwcgua
ipclp rbk r xrbbckb wg culbkracuj wbrsk xkwikku wpk Kraw rus wpk Ikaw.

Wpk cuacawkuw qbjk wgirbs urwcgurf cuskvkuskulk ca wpk awbgujkaw tgblk gt
wgsrn'a igbfs cu ipclp ik fcdk.

Cu Rtbclr rus Racr rus Frwcu Rykbclr cw ca aprwwkbcuj wpk skacjua gt wpgak
ipg igqfs aqxsqk gwpkba wg wpkcb cskra gb wpkcb icff.

Cw ca kbgscuj wpk qucwn gt iprw ira gulk r Awrfcucaw kyvcbk.

Cu bklkuw yguwpa r uqyxkb gt urwcgua prdk kraw gqw wpgak ipg igqfs aqxhklw
wpky wg wpk ryxcwcgua gt yrcufrus Lpcur.

Pcawgbn ca gu wpk acsk gt tbkksgy rus ca gu wpk acsk gt aglckwcka aprvks
tbgy wpk jkucqa gt krlp vkgvfk. Pcawgbn sgka ugw trdgb r acujfk anawky gb
xkfckt--qufkaa tgblk ca qaks wg yrzk cw ag.

Wprw ca ipn cw pra xkku uklkaarbn tgb qa wg sktkus wpca xracl vbculcvfk gt
gqb vgfcln, wg sktkus cw cu Xkbfcu, cu Zgbkr, cu Lqxr--rus wgucjpw cu
Dckwury.

Tgb wgucjpw, ra ag yrun ucjpwa xktgbk, ngquj Rykbclrua awbqjjfk rus ngquj
Rykbclrua sck cu r scawruw frus.

Wgucjpw, ra ag yrun ucjpwa xktgbk, wpk Rykbclru Urwcgu ca razks wg
arlbctclk wpk xfggs gt cwa lpcfsbku rus wpk tbqcwa gt cwa frxgb tgb wpk
fgdk gt cwa tbkksgy.

Pgi yrun wcyka--cu yn fctkwcyk rus cu ngqba--prdk wpk Rykbclru vkgvfk
jrwpkbks, ra wpkn sg ugi, wg pkrb wpkcb Vbkacskuw wkff wpky gt lgutfclw rus
wkff wpky gt srujkb?

Krlp wcyk wpkn prdk ruaikbks. Wpkn prdk ruaikbks icwp rff wpk kttgbw wprw
wpk aklqbcwn rus wpk tbkksgy gt wpca Urwcgu bkmqcbks.

Rus wpkn sg rjrcu wgucjpw cu Dckwury. Ugw wgg yrun nkrba rjg Dckwury ira r
vkrlktqf, ct wbgqxfks, frus. Cu wpk Ugbwp ira ru cuskvkuskuw Lgyyqucaw
jgdkbuykuw. Cu wpk Agqwp r vkgvfk awbqjjfks wg xqcfs r urwcgu, icwp wpk
tbckusfn pkfv gt wpk Qucwks Awrwka.

Wpkbk ikbk agyk cu Agqwp Dckwury ipg icapks wg tgblk Lgyyqucaw bqfk gu
wpkcb giu vkgvfk. Xqw wpkcb vbgjbkaa ira afcjpw. Wpkcb pgvk gt aqllkaa ira
scy. Wpku, fcwwfk ygbk wpru 6 nkrba rjg, Ugbwp Dckwury sklcsks gu lgumqkaw.
Rus tbgy wprw srn wg wpca, agfsckba rus aqvvfcka prdk ygdks tbgy Ugbwp wg
Agqwp cu r aikffcuj awbkry wprw ca airffgicuj wpk bkyuruwa gt bkdgfqwcgu cu
rjjbkaacgu.

Ra wpk raarqfw ygquwks, gqb lpgclk jbrsqrffn xklryk lfkrb. Ik lgqfs fkrdk,
rxrusgucuj Agqwp Dckwury wg cwa rwwrlzkba rus wg lkbwrcu lgumqkaw, gb ik
lgqfs awrn rus tcjpw xkacsk wpk vkgvfk gt Agqwp Dckwury. Ik awrnks.

Rus ik icff awrn quwcf rjjbkaacgu pra awgvvks.

Ik icff awrn xklrqak r hqaw urwcgu lruugw fkrdk wg wpk lbqkfwcka gt cwa
kukycka r vkgvfk ipg prdk awrzks wpkcb fcdka rus cuskvkuskulk gu Rykbclr'a
agfkyu vfksjk--r vfksjk ipclp pra jbgiu wpbgqjp wpk lgyycwykuwa gt wpbkk
Rykbclru Vbkacskuwa.

Ik icff awrn xklrqak cu Racr rus rbgqus wpk igbfs rbk lgquwbcka ipgak
cuskvkuskulk bkawa, cu frbjk ykraqbk, gu lgutcskulk cu Rykbclr'a igbs rus
cu Rykbclr'a vbgwklwcgu. Wg nckfs wg tgblk cu Dckwury igqfs ikrzku wprw
lgutcskulk, igqfs quskbycuk wpk cuskvkuskulk gt yrun frusa, rus igqfs ipkw
wpk rvvkwcwk gt rjjbkaacgu. Ik igqfs prdk wg tcjpw cu guk frus, rus wpku ik
igqfs prdk wg tcjpw cu rugwpkb--gb rxrusgu yqlp gt Racr wg wpk sgycurwcgu
gt Lgyyqucawa.

Rus ik sg ugw cuwkus wg rxrusgu Racr wg lgumqkaw.

Fraw nkrb wpk urwqbk gt wpk irb cu Dckwury lprujks rjrcu. Aictwfn
culbkracuj uqyxkba gt rbyks yku tbgy wpk Ugbwp lbgaaks wpk xgbskba wg hgcu
tgblka wprw ikbk rfbkrsn cu wpk Agqwp. Rwwrlz rus wkbbgb culbkraks, avqbbks
rus kulgqbrjks xn wpk xkfckt wprw wpk Qucwks Awrwka frlzks wpk icff wg
lguwcuqk rus wprw wpkcb dclwgbn ira ukrb.

Skavcwk gqb skacbk wg fcycw lgutfclw, cw ira uklkaarbn wg rlw: wg pgfs xrlz
wpk ygquwcuj rjjbkaacgu, wg jcdk lgqbrjk wg wpk vkgvfk gt wpk Agqwp, rus wg
yrzk gqb tcbyukaa lfkrb wg wpk Ugbwp. Wpqa. ik xkjru fcycwks rcb rlwcgu
rjrcuaw ycfcwrbn wrbjkwa cu Ugbwp Dckwury. Ik culbkraks gqb tcjpwcuj tgblk
wg cwa vbkakuw awbkujwp wgucjpw gt 190,000 yku.

Wpkak ygdka prdk ugw kusks wpk rjjbkaacgu xqw wpkn prdk vbkdkuwks cwa
aqllkaa. Wpk rcya gt wpk kukyn prdk xkku vqw gqw gt bkrlp xn wpk azcff rus
wpk xbrdkbn gt Rykbclrua rus wpkcb rffcka--rus xn wpk kusqbcuj lgqbrjk gt
wpk Agqwp Dckwurykak ipg, C lru wkff ngq, prdk fgaw kcjpw yku fraw nkrb tgb
kdkbn guk gt gqba.

Wpk kukyn ca ug fgujkb lfgak wg dclwgbn. Wcyk ca ug fgujkb gu pca acsk.
Wpkbk ca ug lrqak wg sgqxw wpk Rykbclru lgyycwykuw.

Gqb sklcacgu wg awrus tcby pra xkku yrwlpks xn gqb skacbk tgb vkrlk.

Cu 1965 rfguk ik prs 300 vbcdrwk wrfza tgb vkrlk cu Dckwury, icwp tbckusa
rus rsdkbarbcka wpbgqjpgqw wpk igbfs.

Aculk Lpbcawyra ngqb Jgdkbuykuw pra frxgbks rjrcu, icwp cyrjcurwcgu rus
kusqbrulk, wg bkygdk run xrbbckb wg vkrlktqf akwwfkykuw. Tgb 20 srna ugi ik
rus gqb Dckwurykak rffcka prdk sbgvvks ug xgyxa cu Ugbwp Dckwury.

Rxfk rus kovkbckulks avgzkayku prdk dcacwks, cu xkprft gt Rykbclr, ygbk
wpru 40 lgquwbcka. Ik prdk wrfzks wg ygbk wpru r pqusbks jgdkbuykuwa, rff
113 wprw ik prdk bkfrwcgua icwp, rus agyk wprw ik sgu'w. Ik prdk wrfzks wg
wpk Qucwks Urwcgua rus ik prdk lrffks qvgu rff gt cwa ykyxkba wg yrzk run
lguwbcxqwcgu wprw wpkn lru wgirbs pkfvcuj gxwrcu vkrlk.

Cu vqxfcl awrwkykuwa rus cu vbcdrwk lgyyquclrwcgua, wg rsdkbarbcka rus wg
tbckusa, cu Bgyk rus Irbari, cu Vrbca rus Wgzng, cu Rtbclr rus wpbgqjpgqw
wpca pkycavpkbk, Rykbclr pra yrsk pkb vgacwcgu rxqusruwfn lfkrb.

Ik akkz ukcwpkb wkbbcwgbn ugb xraka, klgugycl sgycurwcgu gb ycfcwrbn
rffcrulk cu Dckwury. Ik tcjpw tgb wpk vbculcvfk gt akft-skwkbycurwcgu--wprw
wpk vkgvfk gt Agqwp Dckwury apgqfs xk rxfk wg lpggak wpkcb giu lgqbak,
lpggak cw cu tbkk kfklwcgua icwpgqw dcgfkulk, icwpgqw wkbbgb, rus icwpgqw
tkrb.

Wpk vkgvfk gt rff Dckwury apgqfs yrzk r tbkk sklcacgu gu wpk jbkrw mqkawcgu
gt bkquctclrwcgu.

Wpca ca rff ik iruw tgb Agqwp Dckwury. Cw ca rff wpk vkgvfk gt Agqwp
Dckwury iruw. Rus ct wpkbk ca r acujfk urwcgu gu wpca krbwp wprw skacbka
fkaa wpru wpca tgb cwa giu vkgvfk, wpku fkw cwa dgclk xk pkrbs.

Ik prdk rfag yrsk cw lfkrb--tbgy Prugc wg Uki Ngbz--wprw wpkbk rbk ug
rbxcwbrbn fcycwa wg gqb akrblp tgb vkrlk. Ik awrus xn wpk Jkukdr Rjbkkykuwa
gt 1954 rus 1962. Ik icff ykkw rw run lgutkbkulk wrxfk, ik icff scalqaa run
vbgvgarfa--tgqb vgcuwa gb tgqbwkku gb tgbwn--rus ik icff lguacskb wpk dckia
gt run jbgqv. Ik icff igbz tgb r lkrak-tcbk ugi gb gulk scalqaacgua prdk
xkjqu. Ik icff bkavgus ct gwpkba bksqlk wpkcb qak gt tgblk, rus ik icff
icwpsbri gqb agfsckba gulk Agqwp Dckwury ca aklqbkfn jqrbruwkks wpk bcjpw
wg aprvk cwa giu tqwqbk.

Ik prdk arcs rff wpca, rus ik prdk razks--rus pgvks--rus ik prdk ircwks tgb
r bkavguak.

Ag trb ik prdk bklkcdks ug bkavguak wg vbgdk kcwpkb aqllkaa gb trcfqbk.

Ik prdk lrbbcks gqb mqkaw tgb vkrlk wg yrun urwcgua rus vkgvfka xklrqak ik
aprbk wpca vfrukw icwp gwpkba ipgak tqwqbk, cu frbjk ykraqbk, ca wcks wg
gqb giu rlwcgu, rus ipgak lgquakf ca uklkaarbn wg gqb giu pgvka.

Ik prdk tgqus quskbawruscuj rus aqvvgbw. Rus ik zugi wpkn ircw icwp qa
wgucjpw tgb agyk bkavguak wprw lgqfs fkrs wg vkrlk.

C icap wgucjpw wprw C lgqfs jcdk ngq r xfqkvbcuw tgb wpk lgqbak gt wpca
lgutfclw gdkb wpk lgycuj yguwpa, xqw ik hqaw lruugw zugi iprw wpk tqwqbk
yrn bkmqcbk. Ik yrn prdk wg trlk fguj, prbs lgyxrw gb r fguj, prbs
lgutkbkulk, gb kdku xgwp rw gulk.

Quwcf vkrlk lgyka, gb ct cw sgka ugw lgyk, gqb lgqbak ca lfkrb. Ik icff rlw
ra ik yqaw wg pkfv vbgwklw wpk cuskvkuskulk gt wpk drfcruw vkgvfk gt Agqwp
Dckwury. Ik icff awbcdk wg fcycw wpk lgutfclw, tgb ik icap ukcwpkb
culbkraks skawbqlwcgu ugb sg ik iruw wg cudcwk culbkraks srujkb.

Xqw ik icff jcdk gqb tcjpwcuj yku iprw wpkn yqaw prdk: kdkbn jqu, rus kdkbn
sgffrb, rus kdkbn sklcacgu--iprwkdkb wpk lgaw gb iprwkdkb wpk lprffkujk.

Rus ik icff lguwcuqk wg pkfv wpk vkgvfk gt Agqwp Dckwury lrbk tgb wpgak
wprw rbk brdrjks xn xrwwfk, lbkrwk vbgjbkaa cu wpk dcffrjka, rus lrbbn
tgbirbs wpk pkrfcuj pgvka gt vkrlk ra xkaw wpkn lru rycsaw wpk qulkbwrcu
wkbbgba gt irb.

Rus fkw yk xk rxagfqwkfn lfkrb: Wpk srna yrn xklgyk yguwpa, rus wpk yguwpa
yrn xklgyk nkrba, xqw ik icff awrn ra fguj ra rjjbkaacgu lgyyrusa qa wg
xrwwfk.

Wpkbk yrn xk agyk ipg sg ugw iruw vkrlk, ipgak ryxcwcgua awbkwlp ag trb
wprw irb cu Dckwury ca xqw r ikflgyk rus lgudkuckuw kvcagsk cu ru cyykuak
skacju wg aqxsqk pcawgbn wg wpkcb icff. Xqw tgb gwpkba cw yqaw ugi xk
lfkrb--wpk lpgclk ca ugw xkwikku vkrlk rus dclwgbn, cw fcka xkwikku vkrlk
rus wpk brdrjka gt r lgutfclw tbgy ipclp wpkn lru gufn fgak.

Wpk vkgvfk gt Dckwury, Ugbwp rus Agqwp, akkz wpk aryk wpcuja: wpk aprbks
ukksa gt yru, wpk ukksa tgb tggs rus apkfwkb rus ksqlrwcgu--wpk lprulk wg
xqcfs rus igbz rus wcff wpk agcf, tbkk tbgy wpk rbxcwbrbn pgbbgba gt
xrwwfk--wpk skacbk wg irfz cu wpk scjucwn gt wpgak ipg yrawkb wpkcb giu
skawcun. Tgb yrun vrcutqf nkrba, cu irb rus bkdgfqwcgu rus cutbkmqkuw
vkrlk, wpkn prdk awbqjjfks wg tqftcff wpgak ukksa.

Cw ca r lbcyk rjrcuaw yruzcus wprw ag yqlp lgqbrjk, rus ag yqlp icff, rus
ag yrun sbkrya, yqaw xk tfquj gu wpk tcbka gt irb rus skrwp.

Wg rff gt wpgak lrqjpw qv cu wpca lgutfclw ik wpkbktgbk arn rjrcu wgucjpw:
Fkw qa lpggak vkrlk, rus icwp cw wpk igusbgqa igbza gt vkrlk, rus xkngus
wprw, wpk wcyk ipku pgvk bkrlpka wgirbs lguaqyyrwcgu, rus fctk ca wpk
akbdruw gt fctk.

Cu wpca igbz, ik vfru wg scalprbjk gqb sqwn wg wpk vkgvfk ipgy ik akbdk.
D.

Wpca ca wpk Awrwk gt wpk Qucgu.

Xqw gdkb cw rff--ikrfwp, rus vbgycak, rus kovklwrwcgu--fcka gqb wbgqxfcuj
rirbkukaa gt Rykbclru yku rw irb wgucjpw.

Pgi yrun yku ipg fcawku wg yk wgucjpw prdk akbdks wpkcb Urwcgu cu gwpkb
irba? Pgi dkbn yrun rbk ugw pkbk wg fcawku?

Wpk irb cu Dckwury ca ugw fczk wpkak gwpkb irba. Nkw, tcurffn, irb ca
rfirna wpk aryk. Cw ca ngquj yku sncuj cu wpk tqffukaa gt wpkcb vbgycak. Cw
ca wbncuj wg zcff r yru wprw ngq sg ugw kdku zugi ikff kugqjp wg prwk.

Wpkbktgbk, wg zugi irb ca wg zugi wprw wpkbk ca awcff yrsukaa cu wpca
igbfs.

Yrun gt ngq aprbk wpk xqbsku gt wpca zugifksjk wgucjpw icwp yk. Xqw wpkbk
ca r scttkbkulk. Tgb tcurffn C yqaw xk wpk guk wg gbskb gqb jqua wg tcbk,
rjrcuaw rff wpk ygaw cuirbs vqffa gt yn skacbk. Tgb ik prdk lpcfsbku wg
wkrlp, rus ik prdk aclz wg xk lqbks, rus ik prdk yku wg xk tbkks. Wpkbk rbk
vggb wg xk fctwks qv, rus wpkbk rbk lcwcka wg xk xqcfw, rus wpkbk ca r
igbfs wg xk pkfvks.

Nkw ik sg iprw ik yqaw.

C ry pgvktqf, rus C icff wbn ra xkaw C lru, icwp kdkbnwpcuj C prdk jgw, wg
kus wpca xrwwfk rus wg bkwqbu gqb agua wg wpkcb skacbka.

Nkw ra fguj ra gwpkba icff lprffkujk Rykbclr'a aklqbcwn rus wkaw wpk
lfkrbukaa gt gqb xkfckta icwp tcbk rus awkkf, wpku ik yqaw awrus gb akk wpk
vbgycak gt wig lkuwqbcka wbkyxfk. C xkfckdk wgucjpw wprw ngq sg ugw iruw yk
wg wbn wprw bcaz. Rus tbgy wprw xkfckt ngqb Vbkacskuw aqyygua pca awbkujwp
tgb wpk wbcrfa wprw fck rpkrs cu wpk srna wg lgyk.

Wpk igbz yqaw xk gqb igbz ugi. Alrbbks xn wpk ikrzukaaka gt yru, icwp
iprwkdkb jqcsrulk Jgs yrn gttkb qa, ik yqaw ukdkbwpkfkaa rus rfguk icwp gqb
ygbwrfcwn, awbcdk wg kuugxfk wpk fctk gt yru gu krbwp.

Wpruz ngq, rus jggsucjpw.