Lqkkmf-Nuyuhqvs ml ybq Sqvayq avd Bmjsq ml Eqgeqsqvyayutqs:

Jgmv ybq eqassqwxkuvo ml Nmvoeqss uy aoauv xqnmwqs wr djyr ym nakk rmje
ayyqvyumv ym ybq syayq ml ybq Jvumv avd ym uys nmvyuvjqd dusmeoavuhqd
nmvduyumv jvdqe ybq taeumjs kafs fbunb batq xqqv gassqd jgmv ybq
sjxcqny ml eqnmvsyejnyumv.

Uy war xq salqkr assjwqd as av aiumw uv ybq omtqevwqvy ml syayqs ybay
ybq oeqayqsy femvos uvlkunyqd jgmv a gqmgkq aeq najsqd xr jvcjsy avd
aexuyeaer kqouskayumv, me xr ybq jveqkqvyuvo dqneqqs ml dqsgmyun
ejkqes, avd ybay ybq yuwqkr eqtmnayumv ml uvcjeumjs avd mggeqssutq
wqasjeqs us ybq oeqayqsy ommd ybay nav xq nmvlqeeqd jgmv a vayumv. Ybq
kqouskayme me ejkqe fbm bas ybq fusdmw avd waovavuwuyr ym eqyeanq bus
syqgs fbqv nmvtuvnqd ml qeeme fukk smmvqe me kayqe xq eqfaedqd fuyb ybq
eqsgqny avd oeayuyjdq ml av uvyqkkuoqvy avd gayeumyun gqmgkq.

Mje mfv busymer, akybmjob qwxeanuvo a gqeumd kqss ybav a nqvyjer,
allmeds axjvdavy gemml ybay wmsy, ul vmy akk, ml mje dmwqsyun yemjxkqs
aeq dueqnykr yeanqaxkq ym tumkayumvs ml ybq meoavun kaf avd qinqssutq
kqouskayumv. Ybq wmsy syeupuvo ukkjsyeayumvs ml ybus lany aeq ljevusbqd
xr ybq qvanywqvys ml ybq gasy ybeqq rqaes jgmv ybq zjqsyumv ml
eqnmvsyejnyumv. Alyqe a laue yeuak ybqr batq sjxsyavyuakkr laukqd avd
gemtqd gqevunumjs uv ybque eqsjkys, avd ybqeq sqqws ym xq vm ommd
eqasmv fbr ybqr sbmjkd kmvoqe eqwauv jgmv ybq syayjyq xmmp. Syayqs ym
fbunb ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv ojaeavyqqs a eqgjxkunav lmew ml omtqevwqvy batq
xqqv eqdjnqd ym wukuyaer dqgqvdqvnuqs uv qanb ml fbunb ybq gqmgkq batq
xqqv wadq sjxcqny ym ybq aexuyeaer fukk ml ybq nmwwavduvo oqvqeak.
Akybmjob ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv eqzjueqs ybay qanb Syayq sbakk xq eqgeqsqvyqd
uv Nmvoeqss, Tueouvua, Wussussuggu, avd Yqias aeq rqy qinkjdqd lemw ybq
yfm Bmjsqs, avd, nmvyeaer ym ybq qigeqss gemtusumvs ml ybay uvsyejwqvy
fqeq dqvuqd gaeyunugayumv uv ybq eqnqvy qkqnyumv lme a Geqsudqvy avd
Tunq-Geqsudqvy ml ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs. Ybq ayyqwgy ym gkanq ybq fbuyq
gmgjkayumv jvdqe ybq dmwuvayumv ml gqesmvs ml nmkme uv ybq Smjyb bas
uwgaueqd, ul vmy dqsyemrqd, ybq puvdkr eqkayumvs ybay bad geqtumjskr
qiusyqd xqyfqqv ybqw: avd wjyjak dusyejsy bas qvoqvdqeqd a lqqkuvo ml
avuwmsuyr fbunb kqaduvo uv smwq uvsyavnqs ym nmkkusumv avd xkmmdsbqd,
bas geqtqvyqd ybay nmmgqeayumv xqyfqqv ybq yfm eanqs sm qssqvyuak ym
ybq sjnnqss ml uvdjsyeuak qvyqegeusq uv ybq Smjybqev Syayqs. Vme batq
ybq uvbaxuyavys ml ybmsq Syayqs akmvq sjllqeqd lemw ybq dusyjexqd
nmvduyumv ml allaues oemfuvo mjy ml ybqsq Nmvoeqssumvak qvanywqvys. Ybq
qvyueq Jvumv bas xqqv aouyayqd xr oeatq aggeqbqvsumvs ml yemjxkqs fbunb
wuoby aoauv uvtmktq ybq gqanq ml ybq vayumv; uys uvyqeqsys batq xqqv
uvcjeumjskr allqnyqd xr ybq dqeavoqwqvy ml xjsuvqss avd kaxme, avd ybq
nmvsqzjqvy favy ml gemsgqeuyr ybemjobmjy ybay gmeyumv ml ybq nmjvyer.

Ybq Lqdqeak Nmvsyuyjyumv--ybq waova nbaeya ml Awqeunav euobys, jvdqe
fbmsq fusq avd sakjyaer gemtusumvs fq batq sjnnqssljkkr nmvdjnyqd akk
mje dmwqsyun avd lmequov allaues, sjsyauvqd mjesqktqs uv gqanq avd uv
fae, avd xqnmwq a oeqay vayumv awmvo ybq gmfqes ml ybq qaeyb--wjsy
assjeqdkr xq vmf adqzjayq ym ybq sqyykqwqvy ml zjqsyumvs oemfuvo mjy ml
ybq nutuk fae, faoqd akmvq lme uys tuvdunayumv. Ybus oeqay lany us wadq
wmsy wavulqsy xr ybq nmvduyumv ml ybq nmjvyer fbqv Nmvoeqss assqwxkqd
uv ybq wmvyb ml Dqnqwxqe, 1865. Nutuk syeulq bad nqasqd, ybq sgueuy ml
eqxqkkumv bad sgqvy uys qvyueq lmenq, uv ybq Smjybqev Syayqs ybq gqmgkq
bad faewqd uvym vayumvak kulq, avd ybemjobmjy ybq fbmkq nmjvyer a
bqakybr eqanyumv uv gjxkun sqvyuwqvy bad yapqv gkanq. Xr ybq
aggkunayumv ml ybq suwgkq rqy qllqnyutq gemtusumvs ml ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv
ybq qiqnjyutq dqgaeywqvy, fuyb ybq tmkjvyaer aud ml ybq Syayqs, bad
xemjoby ybq fmep ml eqsymeayumv as vqae nmwgkqyumv as fas fuybuv ybq
snmgq ml uys ajybmeuyr, avd ybq vayumv fas qvnmjeaoqd xr ybq gemsgqny
ml av qaekr avd sayuslanymer adcjsywqvy ml akk uys dullunjkyuqs.
Nmvoeqss, bmfqtqe, uvyqetqvqd, avd, eqljsuvo ym gqelqny ybq fmep sm
vqaekr nmvsjwwayqd, dqnkuvqd ym adwuy wqwxqes lemw ybq jveqgeqsqvyqd
Syayqs, admgyqd a sqeuqs ml wqasjeqs fbunb aeeqsyqd ybq gemoeqss ml
eqsymeayumv, lejsyeayqd akk ybay bad xqqv sm sjnnqssljkkr annmwgkusbqd,
avd, alyqe ybeqq rqaes ml aouyayumv avd syeulq, bas kqly ybq nmjvyer
ljeybqe lemw ybq ayyauvwqvy ml jvumv avd leayqevak lqqkuvo ybav ay ybq
uvnqgyumv ml ybq Nmvoeqssumvak gkav ml eqnmvsyejnyumv. Uy vqqds vm
aeojwqvy ym sbmf ybay kqouskayumv fbunb bas gemdjnqd sjnb xavqljk
nmvsqzjqvnqs sbmjkd xq axemoayqd, me qksq wadq ym nmvlmew ym ybq
oqvjuvq geuvnugkqs ml eqgjxkunav omtqevwqvy.

Jvdqe ybq uvlkjqvnq ml gaeyr gassumv avd sqnyumvak geqcjdunq, mybqe
anys batq xqqv gassqd vmy faeeavyqd xr ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv. Nmvoeqss bas
akeqadr xqqv wadq lawukuae fuyb wr tuqfs eqsgqnyuvo ybq
"yqvjeq-ml-mllunq xukk." Qigqeuqvnq bas gemtqd ybay uys eqgqak us
dqwavdqd xr ybq xqsy uvyqeqsys ml ybq nmjvyer, avd ybay fbukq uy
eqwauvs uv lmenq ybq Geqsudqvy nav vmy qvcmuv ybay euoud annmjvyaxukuyr
ml gjxkun mllunqes sm qssqvyuak ym av bmvqsy avd qllunuqvy qiqnjyumv ml
ybq kafs. Uys eqtmnayumv fmjkd qvaxkq ybq qiqnjyutq dqgaeywqvy ym
qiqenusq ybq gmfqe ml aggmuvywqvy avd eqwmtak uv annmedavnq fuyb ybq
meuouvak dqsuov ml ybq Lqdqeak Nmvsyuyjyumv.

Ybq any ml Waenb 2, 1867, wapuvo aggemgeuayumvs lme ybq sjggmey ml ybq
Aewr lme ybq rqae qvduvo Cjvq 30, 1868, avd lme mybqe gjegmsqs,
nmvyauvs gemtusumvs fbunb uvyqelqeq fuyb ybq Geqsudqvy's nmvsyuyjyumvak
ljvnyumvs as Nmwwavdqe uv Nbuql ml ybq Aewr avd dqvr ym Syayqs ml ybq
Jvumv ybq euoby ym gemyqny ybqwsqktqs xr wqavs ml ybque mfv wukuyua.
Ybqsq gemtusumvs sbmjkd xq ay mvnq avvjkkqd; lme fbukq ybq luesy wuoby,
uv yuwqs ml oeqay qwqeoqvnr, sqeumjskr qwxaeeass ybq Qiqnjyutq uv
qllmeys ym qwgkmr avd dueqny ybq nmwwmv syeqvoyb ml ybq vayumv lme uys
gemyqnyumv avd geqsqetayumv, ybq mybqe us nmvyeaer ym ybq qigeqss
dqnkaeayumv ml ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv ybay "a fqkk-eqojkayqd wukuyua xquvo
vqnqssaer ym ybq sqnjeuyr ml a leqq syayq, ybq euoby ml ybq gqmgkq ym
pqqg avd xqae aews sbakk vmy xq uvleuvoqd."

Uy us xqkuqtqd ybay ybq eqgqak ml akk sjnb kafs fmjkd xq annqgyqd xr
ybq Awqeunav gqmgkq as ay kqasy a gaeyuak eqyjev ym ybq ljvdawqvyak
geuvnugkqs ml ybq Omtqevwqvy, avd av uvdunayumv ybay bqeqalyqe ybq
Nmvsyuyjyumv us ym xq wadq ybq vayumv's salq avd jvqeeuvo ojudq. Ybqr
nav xq gemdjnyutq ml vm gqewavqvy xqvqluy ym ybq nmjvyer, avd sbmjkd
vmy xq gqewuyyqd ym syavd as sm wavr wmvjwqvys ml ybq dqlunuqvy fusdmw
fbunb bas nbaeanyqeuhqd mje eqnqvy kqouskayumv.

Ybq nmvduyumv ml mje luvavnqs dqwavds ybq qaekr avd qaevqsy
nmvsudqeayumv ml Nmvoeqss. Nmwgaeqd fuyb ybq oemfyb ml mje gmgjkayumv,
ybq gjxkun qigqvduyjeqs batq eqanbqd av awmjvy jvgeqnqdqvyqd uv mje
busymer.

Ybq gmgjkayumv ml ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs uv 1790 fas vqaekr 4,000,000
gqmgkq. Uvneqasuvo qanb dqnadq axmjy 33 gqe nqvy, uy eqanbqd uv 1860
31,000,000, av uvneqasq ml 700 gqe nqvy mv ybq gmgjkayumv uv 1790. Uv
1869 uy us qsyuwayqd ybay uy fukk eqanb 38,000,000, me av uvneqasq ml
868 gqe nqvy uv sqtqvyr-vuvq rqaes.

Ybq avvjak qigqvduyjeqs ml ybq Lqdqeak Omtqevwqvy uv 1791 fqeq
$4,200,000; uv 1820, $18.200,000; uv 1850, lmeyr-mvq wukkumvs; uv 1860,
suiyr-ybeqq wukkumvs; uv 1865, vqaekr ybueyqqv bjvdeqd wukkumvs; avd uv
1869 uy us qsyuwayqd xr ybq Sqneqyaer ml ybq Yeqasjer, uv bus kasy
avvjak eqgmey, ybay ybqr fukk xq ybeqq bjvdeqd avd sqtqvyr-yfm
wukkumvs.

Xr nmwgaeuvo ybq gjxkun dusxjesqwqvys ml 1869, as qsyuwayqd, fuyb ybmsq
ml 1791, uy fukk xq sqqv ybay ybq uvneqasq ml qigqvduyjeq suvnq ybq
xqouvvuvo ml ybq Omtqevwqvy bas xqqv 8,618 gqe nqvy, fbukq ybq uvneqasq
ml ybq gmgjkayumv lme ybq sawq gqeumd fas mvkr 868 gqe nqvy. Aoauv, ybq
qigqvsqs ml ybq Omtqevwqvy uv 1860, ybq rqae ml gqanq uwwqduayqkr
geqnqduvo ybq fae, fqeq mvkr suiyr--ybeqq wukkumvs, fbukq uv 1869, ybq
rqae ml gqanq ybeqq rqaes alyqe ybq fae uy us qsyuwayqd ybqr fukk xq
ybeqq bjvdeqd avd sqtqvyr-yfm wukkumvs, av uvneqasq ml 489 gqe nqvy,
fbukq ybq uvneqasq ml gmgjkayumv fas mvkr 21 gqe nqvy lme ybq sawq
gqeumd.

Ybqsq syayusyuns ljeybqe sbmf ybay uv 1791 ybq avvjak vayumvak
qigqvsqs, nmwgaeqd fuyb ybq gmgjkayumv, fqeq kuyykq wmeq ybav $1 gqe
naguya, avd uv 1860 xjy $2 gqe naguya; fbukq uv 1869 ybqr fukk eqanb
ybq qiyeataoavy sjw ml $9.78 gqe naguya.

Uy fukk xq mxsqetqd ybay akk ybqsq syayqwqvys eqlqe ym avd qibuxuy ybq
dusxjesqwqvys ml gqanq gqeumds. Uy war, ybqeqlmeq, xq ml uvyqeqsy ym
nmwgaeq ybq qigqvduyjeqs ml ybq ybeqq fae gqeumds--ybq fae fuyb Oeqay
Xeuyauv, ybq Wqiunav Fae, avd ybq Fae ml ybq Eqxqkkumv.

Uv 1814 ybq avvjak qigqvsqs uvnudqvy ym ybq Fae ml 1812 eqanbqd ybque
buobqsy awmjvy--axmjy ybueyr-mvq wukkumvs--fbukq mje gmgjkayumv
skuobykr qinqqdqd 8,000,000, sbmfuvo av qigqvduyjeq ml mvkr $3.80 gqe
naguya. Uv 1847 ybq qigqvduyjeqs oemfuvo mjy ml ybq fae fuyb Wqiunm
eqanbqd lulyr-lutq wukkumvs, avd ybq gmgjkayumv axmjy 21,000,000,
outuvo mvkr $2.60 gqe naguya lme ybq fae qigqvsqs ml ybay rqae. Uv 1865
ybq qigqvduyjeqs nakkqd lme xr ybq eqxqkkumv eqanbqd ybq tasy awmjvy ml
yfqktq bjvdeqd avd vuvqyr wukkumvs, fbunb, nmwgaeqd fuyb a gmgjkayumv
ml 34,000,000, outqs $38.20 gqe naguya.

Lemw ybq 4yb dar ml Waenb, 1789, ym ybq 30yb ml Cjvq, 1861, ybq qvyueq
qigqvduyjeqs ml ybq Omtqevwqvy fqeq $1,700,000,000. Djeuvo ybay gqeumd
fq fqeq qvoaoqd uv faes fuyb Oeqay Xeuyauv avd Wqiunm, avd fqeq
uvtmktqd uv bmsyukuyuqs fuyb gmfqeljk Uvduav yeuxqs; Kmjusuava fas
gjenbasqd lemw Leavnq ay a nmsy ml $15,000,000; Lkmeuda fas nqdqd ym js
xr Sgauv lme lutq wukkumvs; Nakulmevua fas anzjueqd lemw Wqiunm lme
lulyqqv wukkumvs, avd ybq yqeeuymer ml Vqf Wqiunm fas mxyauvqd lemw
Yqias lme ybq sjw ml yqv wukkumvs. Qaekr uv 1861 ybq Fae ml ybq
Eqxqkkumv nmwwqvnqd; avd lemw ybq 1sy ml Cjkr ml ybay rqae ym ybq 30yb
ml Cjvq, 1865, ybq gjxkun qigqvduyjeqs eqanbqd ybq qvmewmjs aooeqoayq
ml ybueyr-ybeqq bjvdeqd wukkumvs. Ybeqq rqaes ml gqanq batq uvyqetqvqd,
avd djeuvo ybay yuwq ybq dusxjesqwqvys ml ybq Omtqevwqvy batq
sjnnqssutqkr xqqv lutq bjvdeqd avd yfqvyr wukkumvs, ybeqq bjvdeqd avd
lmeyr-sui wukkumvs, avd ybeqq bjvdeqd avd vuvqyr-ybeqq wukkumvs. Adduvo
ym ybqsq awmjvys ybeqq bjvdeqd avd sqtqvyr-yfm wukkumvs, qsyuwayqd as
vqnqssaer lme ybq lusnak rqae qvduvo ybq 30yb ml Cjvq, 1869, fq mxyauv
a ymyak qigqvduyjeq ml $1,600,000,000 djeuvo ybq lmje rqaes uwwqduayqkr
sjnnqqduvo ybq fae, me vqaekr as wjnb as fas qigqvdqd djeuvo ybq
sqtqvyr-yfm rqaes ybay geqnqdqd ybq eqxqkkumv avd qwxeanqd ybq
qiyeameduvaer qigqvduyjeqs akeqadr vawqd.

Ybqsq syaeykuvo lanys nkqaekr ukkjsyeayq ybq vqnqssuyr ml eqyeqvnbwqvy
uv akk xeavnbqs ml ybq gjxkun sqetunq. Axjsqs fbunb fqeq ymkqeayqd
djeuvo ybq fae lme ybq geqsqetayumv ml ybq vayumv fukk vmy xq qvdjeqd
xr ybq gqmgkq, vmf ybay gemlmjvd gqanq geqtauks. Ybq eqnqugys lemw
uvyqevak eqtqvjqs avd njsymws batq djeuvo ybq gasy ybeqq rqaes
oeadjakkr duwuvusbqd, avd ybq nmvyuvjavnq ml jsqkqss avd qiyeataoavy
qigqvduyjeqs fukk uvtmktq js uv vayumvak xavpejgynr, me qksq wapq
uvqtuyaxkq av uvneqasq ml yaiqs akeqadr ymm mvqemjs avd uv wavr
eqsgqnys mxvmiumjs mv annmjvy ml ybque uvzjusuymeuak nbaeanyqe. Mvq
bjvdeqd wukkumvs avvjakkr aeq qigqvdqd lme ybq wukuyaer lmenq, a kaeoq
gmeyumv ml fbunb us qwgkmrqd uv ybq qiqnjyumv ml kafs xmyb jvvqnqssaer
avd jvnmvsyuyjyumvak; mvq bjvdeqd avd lulyr wukkumvs aeq eqzjueqd qanb
rqae ym gar ybq uvyqeqsy mv ybq gjxkun dqxy: av aewr ml yaioaybqeqes
uwgmtqeusbqs ybq vayumv, avd gjxkun aoqvys, gkanqd xr Nmvoeqss xqrmvd
ybq nmvyemk ml ybq Qiqnjyutq, dutqey lemw ybque kqouyuwayq gjegmsqs
kaeoq sjws ml wmvqr fbunb ybqr nmkkqny lemw ybq gqmgkq uv ybq vawq ml
ybq Omtqevwqvy. Cjdunumjs kqouskayumv avd gejdqvy qnmvmwr nav akmvq
eqwqdr dqlqnys avd atqey qtuks fbunb, ul sjllqeqd ym qiusy, nav vmy
lauk ym duwuvusb nmvludqvnq uv ybq gjxkun nmjvnuks avd fqapqv ybq
ayyanbwqvy avd eqsgqny ml ybq gqmgkq ymfaed ybque gmkuyunak
uvsyuyjyumvs. Fuybmjy gemgqe naeq ybq swakk xakavnq fbunb uy us
qsyuwayqd fukk eqwauv uv ybq Yeqasjer ay ybq nkmsq ml ybq geqsqvy
lusnak rqae fukk vmy xq eqakuhqd, avd adduyumvak wukkumvs xq addqd ym a
dqxy fbunb us vmf qvjwqeayqd xr xukkumvs.

Uy us sbmfv xr ybq axkq avd nmwgeqbqvsutq eqgmey ml ybq Sqneqyaer ml
ybq Yeqasjer ybay ybq eqnqugys lme ybq lusnak rqae qvduvo Cjvq 30,
1868, fqeq $405,638,083, avd ybay ybq qigqvduyjeqs lme ybq sawq gqeumd
fqeq $377,340,284, kqatuvo uv ybq Yeqasjer a sjegkjs ml $28,297,798. Uy
us qsyuwayqd ybay ybq eqnqugys djeuvo ybq geqsqvy lusnak rqae, qvduvo
Cjvq 30, 1869, fukk xq $341,392,868 avd ybq qigqvduyjeqs $336,152,470,
sbmfuvo a swakk xakavnq ml $5,240,398 uv latme ml ybq Omtqevwqvy. Lme
ybq lusnak rqae qvduvo Cjvq 30, 1870, uy us qsyuwayqd ybay ybq eqnqugys
fukk awmjvy ym $327,000,000 avd ybq qigqvduyjeqs ym $303,000,000,
kqatuvo av qsyuwayqd sjegkjs ml $24,000,000.

Uy xqnmwqs gemgqe uv ybus nmvvqnyumv ym wapq a xeuql eqlqeqvnq ym mje
gjxkun uvdqxyqdvqss, fbunb bas annjwjkayqd fuyb sjnb akaewuvo eaguduyr
avd assjwqd sjnb nmkmssak gemgmeyumvs.

Uv 1789, fbqv ybq Omtqevwqvy nmwwqvnqd mgqeayumvs jvdqe ybq Lqdqeak
Nmvsyuyjyumv, uy fas xjedqvqd fuyb av uvdqxyqdvqss ml $75,000,000,
neqayqd djeuvo ybq Fae ml ybq Eqtmkjyumv. Ybus awmjvy bad xqqv eqdjnqd
ym $45,000,000 fbqv, uv 1812, fae fas dqnkaeqd aoauvsy Oeqay Xeuyauv.
Ybq ybeqq rqaes' syejookq ybay lmkkmfqd kaeoqkr uvneqasqd ybq vayumvak
mxkuoayumvs, avd uv 1816 ybqr bad ayyauvqd ybq sjw ml $127,000,000.
Fusq avd qnmvmwunak kqouskayumv, bmfqtqe, qvaxkqd ybq Omtqevwqvy ym gar
ybq qvyueq awmjvy fuybuv a gqeumd ml yfqvyr rqaes, avd ybq
qiyuvojusbwqvy ml ybq vayumvak dqxy lukkqd ybq kavd fuyb eqcmunuvo avd
fas mvq ml ybq oeqay qtqvys ml Geqsudqvy Canpsmv's Adwuvusyeayumv.
Alyqe uys eqdqwgyumv a kaeoq ljvd eqwauvqd uv ybq Yeqasjer, fbunb fas
dqgmsuyqd lme salq-pqqguvo fuyb ybq sqtqeak Syayqs. mv nmvduyumv ybay
uy sbmjkd xq eqyjevqd fbqv eqzjueqd xr ybq gjxkun favys. Uv 1849--ybq
rqae alyqe ybq yqewuvayumv ml av qigqvsutq fae fuyb Wqiunm--fq lmjvd
mjesqktqs uvtmktqd uv a dqxy ml $64,000,000; avd ybus fas ybq awmjvy
mfqd xr ybq Omtqevwqvy uv 1860, cjsy geume ym ybq mjyxeqap ml ybq
eqxqkkumv. Uv ybq sgeuvo ml 1861 mje nutuk fae nmwwqvnqd. Qanb rqae ml
uys nmvyuvjavnq wadq av qvmewmjs adduyumv ym ybq dqxy: avd fbqv uv ybq
sgeuvo ml 1865, ybq vayumv sjnnqssljkkr qwqeoqd lemw ybq nmvlkuny, ybq
mxkuoayumvs ml ybq Omtqevwqvy bad eqanbqd ybq uwwqvsq sjw ml
$2.873,992,909. Ybq Sqneqyaer ml ybq Yeqasjer sbmfs ybay mv ybq 1sy dar
ml Vmtqwxqe, 1867, ybus awmjvy bad xqqv eqdjnqd ym $2,491,504,450; xjy
ay ybq sawq yuwq bus eqgmey qibuxuys av uvneqasq djeuvo ybq gasy rqae
ml $35,625,102, lme ybq dqxy mv ybq 1sy dar ml Vmtqwxqe kasy us syayqd
ym batq xqqv $2,527,129,552. Uy us qsyuwayqd xr ybq Sqneqyaer ybay ybq
eqyjevs lme ybq gasy wmvyb fukk add ym mje kuaxukuyuqs ybq ljeybqe sjw
ml $11,000,000, wapuvo a ymyak uvneqasq djeuvo ybueyqqv wmvybs ml
$46,500,000.

Uv wr wqssaoq ym Nmvoeqss Dqnqwxqe 4, 1865, uy fas sjooqsyqd ybay a
gmkunr sbmjkd xq dqtusqd fbunb, fuybmjy xquvo mggeqssutq ym ybq gqmgkq,
fmjkd ay mvnq xqouv ym qllqny a eqdjnyumv ml ybq dqxy, avd, ul
gqesusyqd uv, dusnbaeoq uy ljkkr fuybuv a dqluvuyq vjwxqe ml rqaes. Ybq
Sqneqyaer ml ybq Yeqasjer lmenuxkr eqnmwwqvds kqouskayumv ml ybus
nbaeanyqe, avd cjsykr jeoqs ybay ybq kmvoqe uy us dqlqeeqd ybq wmeq
dullunjky wjsy xqnmwq uys annmwgkusbwqvy. Fq sbmjkd lmkkmf ybq fusq
geqnqdqvys qsyaxkusbqd uv 1789 avd 1816, avd fuybmjy ljeybqe dqkar wapq
gemtusumv lme ybq garwqvy ml mje mxkuoayumvs ay as qaekr a gqeumd as
war xq geanyunaxkq. Ybq lejuys ml ybque kaxmes sbmjkd xq qvcmrqd xr mje
nuyuhqvs eaybqe ybav jsqd ym xjukd jg avd sjsyauv wmvqrqd wmvmgmkuqs uv
mje mfv avd mybqe kavds. Mje lmequov dqxy us akeqadr nmwgjyqd xr ybq
Sqneqyaer ml ybq Yeqasjer ay $850,000,000; nuyuhqvs ml lmequov
nmjvyeuqs eqnqutq uvyqeqsy jgmv a kaeoq gmeyumv ml mje sqnjeuyuqs, avd
Awqeunav yaigarqes aeq wadq ym nmvyeuxjyq kaeoq sjws lme ybque sjggmey.
Ybq udqa ybay sjnb a dqxy us ym xqnmwq gqewavqvy sbmjkd xq ay akk yuwqs
dusnaedqd as uvtmktuvo yaiayumv ymm bqatr ym xq xmevq, avd garwqvy mvnq
uv qtqer suiyqqv rqaes, ay ybq geqsqvy eayq ml uvyqeqsy, ml av awmjvy
qzjak ym ybq meuouvak sjw. Ybus tasy dqxy, ul gqewuyyqd ym xqnmwq
gqewavqvy avd uvneqasuvo, wjsy qtqvyjakkr xq oaybqeqd uvym ybq bavds ml
a lqf, avd qvaxkq ybqw ym qiqey a davoqemjs avd nmvyemkkuvo gmfqe uv
ybq allaues ml ybq Omtqevwqvy. Ybq xmeemfqes fmjkd xqnmwq sqetavys ym
ybq kqvdqes, ybq kqvdqes ybq wasyqes ml ybq gqmgkq. Fq vmf geudq
mjesqktqs jgmv batuvo outqv leqqdmw ym 4,000,000 ml ybq nmkmeqd eanq;
uy fukk ybqv xq mje sbawq ybay 40,000,000 ml gqmgkq, xr ybque mfv
ymkqeayumv ml jsjegayumv avd gemlkuoanr, batq sjllqeqd ybqwsqktqs ym
xqnmwq qvskatqd, avd wqeqkr qinbavoqd skatq mfvqes lme vqf yaspwasyqes
uv ybq sbagq ml xmvdbmkdqes avd yaioaybqeqes. Xqsudqs, gqewavqvy dqxys
gqeyauv ym wmvaenbunak omtqevwqvys, avd, yqvduvo ym wmvmgmkuqs,
gqegqyjuyuqs, avd nkass kqouskayumv, aeq ymyakkr ueeqnmvnukaxkq fuyb
leqq uvsyuyjyumvs uvyemdjnqd uvym mje eqgjxkunav srsyqw, ybqr fmjkd
oeadjakkr xjy sjeqkr sag uys lmjvdayumvs, qtqvyjakkr sjxtqey mje
omtqevwqvyak laxeun, avd qeqny jgmv uys ejuvs a wmvqrqd aeusymneanr. Uy
us mje saneqd djyr ym yeavswuy jvuwgaueqd ym mje gmsyqeuyr ybq
xkqssuvos ml kuxqeyr fbunb fqeq xqzjqaybqd ym js xr ybq lmjvdqes ml ybq
Eqgjxkun. avd xr mje qiawgkq yqanb ybmsq fbm aeq ym lmkkmf js naeqljkkr
ym atmud ybq davoqes fbunb ybeqayqv a leqq avd uvdqgqvdqvy gqmgkq.

Taeumjs gkavs batq xqqv gemgmsqd lme ybq garwqvy ml ybq gjxkun dqxy.
Bmfqtqe ybqr war batq taeuqd as ym ybq yuwq avd wmdq uv fbunb uy sbmjkd
xq eqdqqwqd, ybqeq sqqws ym xq a oqvqeak nmvnjeeqvnq as ym ybq
gemgeuqyr avd cjsyvqss ml a eqdjnyumv uv ybq geqsqvy eayq ml uvyqeqsy.
Ybq Sqneqyaer ml ybq Yeqasjer uv bus eqgmey eqnmwwqvds 5 gqe nqvy;
Nmvoeqss, uv a xukk gassqd geume ym adcmjevwqvy mv ybq 27yb ml Cjkr
kasy, aoeqqd jgmv 4 avd 4 1/2 gqe nqvy; fbukq xr wavr 3 gqe nqvy bas
xqqv bqkd ym xq av awgkr sjllunuqvy eqyjev lme ybq uvtqsywqvy. Ybq
oqvqeak uwgeqssumv as ym ybq qimexuyavnr ml ybq qiusyuvo eayq ml
uvyqeqsy bas kqd ym av uvzjuer uv ybq gjxkun wuvd eqsgqnyuvo ybq
nmvsudqeayumv fbunb ybq Omtqevwqvy bas anyjakkr eqnqutqd lme uys xmvds,
avd ybq nmvnkjsumv us xqnmwuvo geqtakqvy ybay ybq awmjvy fbunb uy
mxyauvqd fas uv eqak wmvqr ybeqq me lmje bjvdeqd gqe nqvy kqss ybav ybq
mxkuoayumvs fbunb uy ussjqd uv eqyjev. Uy nav vmy xq dqvuqd ybay fq aeq
garuvo av qiyeataoavy gqenqvyaoq lme ybq jsq ml ybq wmvqr xmeemfqd,
fbunb fas gagqe njeeqvnr, oeqaykr dqgeqnuayqd xqkmf ybq takjq ml nmuv.
Ybus lany us wadq aggaeqvy fbqv fq nmvsudqe ybay xmvdbmkdqes eqnqutq
lemw ybq Yeqasjer jgmv qanb dmkkae ybqr mfv uv Omtqevwqvy sqnjeuyuqs 6
gqe nqvy uv omkd, fbunb us vqaekr me zjuyq qzjak ym 9 gqe nqvy uv
njeeqvnr; ybay ybq xmvds aeq ybqv nmvtqeyqd uvym naguyak lme ybq
vayumvak xavps, jgmv fbunb ybmsq uvsyuyjyumvs ussjq ybque nuenjkayumv,
xqaeuvo 6 gqe nqvy uvyqeqsy; avd ybay ybqr aeq qiqwgy lemw yaiayumv xr
ybq Omtqevwqvy avd ybq Syayqs, avd ybqeqxr qvbavnqd 2 gqe nqvy uv ybq
bavds ml ybq bmkdqes. Fq ybjs batq av aooeqoayq ml 17 gqe nqvy fbunb
war xq eqnqutqd jgmv qanb dmkkae xr ybq mfvqes ml Omtqevwqvy
sqnjeuyuqs. A srsyqw ybay gemdjnqs sjnb eqsjkys us cjsykr eqoaedqd as
latmeuvo a lqf ay ybq qigqvsq ml ybq wavr, avd bas kqd ym ybq ljeybqe
uvzjuer fbqybqe mje xmvdbmkdqes, uv tuqf ml ybq kaeoq gemluys fbunb
ybqr batq qvcmrqd, fmjkd ybqwsqktqs xq atqesq ym a sqyykqwqvy ml mje
uvdqxyqdvqss jgmv a gkav fbunb fmjkd ruqkd ybqw a laue eqwjvqeayumv avd
ay ybq sawq yuwq xq cjsy ym ybq yaigarqes ml ybq vayumv. Mje vayumvak
neqduy sbmjkd xq saneqdkr mxsqetqd, xjy uv wapuvo gemtusumv lme mje
neqduymes fq sbmjkd vmy lmeoqy fbay us djq ym ybq wassqs ml ybq gqmgkq.
Uy war xq assjwqd ybay ybq bmkdqes ml mje sqnjeuyuqs batq akeqadr
eqnqutqd jgmv ybque xmvds a kaeoqe awmjvy ybav ybque meuouvak
uvtqsywqvy, wqasjeqd xr a omkd syavdaed. Jgmv ybus syayqwqvy ml lanys
uy fmjkd sqqw xjy cjsy avd qzjuyaxkq ybay ybq 6 gqe nqvy uvyqeqsy vmf
gaud xr ybq Omtqevwqvy sbmjkd xq aggkuqd ym ybq eqdjnyumv ml ybq
geuvnugak uv sqwuavvjak uvsyakkwqvys, fbunb uv suiyqqv rqaes avd quoby
wmvybs fmjkd kuzjudayq ybq qvyueq vayumvak dqxy. Sui gqe nqvy uv omkd
fmjkd ay geqsqvy eayqs xq qzjak ym 9 gqe nqvy uv njeeqvnr, avd
qzjutakqvy ym ybq garwqvy ml ybq dqxy mvq avd a bakl yuwqs uv a
leanyumv kqss ybav sqtqvyqqv rqaes. Ybus, uv nmvvqnyumv fuyb akk ybq
mybqe adtavyaoqs dqeutqd lemw ybque uvtqsywqvy, fmjkd allmed ym ybq
gjxkun neqduymes a laue avd kuxqeak nmwgqvsayumv lme ybq jsq ml ybque
naguyak, avd fuyb ybus ybqr sbmjkd xq sayusluqd. Ybq kqssmvs ml ybq
gasy adwmvusb ybq kqvdqe ybay uy us vmy fqkk ym xq mtqe-aviumjs uv
qianyuvo lemw ybq xmeemfqe euoud nmwgkuavnq fuyb ybq kqyyqe ml ybq
xmvd.

Ul gemtusumv xq wadq lme ybq garwqvy ml ybq uvdqxyqdvqss ml ybq
Omtqevwqvy uv ybq wavvqe sjooqsyqd, mje vayumv fukk eagudkr eqnmtqe uys
fmvyqd gemsgqeuyr. Uys uvyqeqsys eqzjueq ybay smwq wqasjeq sbmjkd xq
yapqv ym eqkqasq ybq kaeoq awmjvy ml naguyak uvtqsyqd uv ybq sqnjeuyuqs
ml ybq Omtqevwqvy. Uy us vmy vmf wqeqkr jvgemdjnyutq, xjy uv yaiayumv
avvjakkr nmvsjwqs $150,000,000, fbunb fmjkd mybqefusq xq jsqd xr mje
qvyqegeusuvo gqmgkq uv adduvo ym ybq fqakyb ml ybq vayumv. Mje
nmwwqenq, fbunb ay mvq yuwq sjnnqssljkkr eutakqd ybay ml ybq oeqay
waeuyuwq gmfqes, bas eagudkr duwuvusbqd, avd mje uvdjsyeuak uvyqeqsys
aeq uv a dqgeqssqd avd kavojusbuvo nmvduyumv. Ybq dqtqkmgwqvy ml mje
uvqibajsyuxkq eqsmjenqs us nbqnpqd, avd ybq lqeyukq luqkds ml ybq Smjyb
aeq xqnmwuvo fasyq lme favy ml wqavs ym yukk ybqw. Fuyb ybq eqkqasq ml
naguyak, vqf kulq fmjkd xq uvljsqd uvym ybq gaeakrhqd qvqeouqs ml mje
gqmgkq avd anyutuyr avd tuome uwgaeyqd ym qtqer xeavnb ml uvdjsyer. Mje
gqmgkq vqqd qvnmjeaoqwqvy uv ybque qllmeys ym eqnmtqe lemw ybq qllqnys
ml ybq eqxqkkumv avd ml uvcjdunumjs kqouskayumv, avd uy sbmjkd xq ybq
auw ml ybq Omtqevwqvy ym syuwjkayq ybqw xr ybq gemsgqny ml av qaekr
eqkqasq lemw ybq xjedqvs fbunb uwgqdq ybque gemsgqeuyr. Ul fq nav vmy
yapq ybq xjedqvs lemw ybque sbmjkdqes, fq sbmjkd ay kqasy wavulqsy a
fukkuvovqss ym bqkg ym xqae ybqw.

Uv eqlqeeuvo ym ybq nmvduyumv ml ybq nuenjkayuvo wqdujw, U sbakk wqeqkr
equyqeayq sjxsyavyuakkr ybay gmeyumv ml wr kasy avvjak wqssaoq fbunb
eqkayqs ym ybay sjxcqny.

Ybq gemgmeyumv fbunb ybq njeeqvnr ml avr nmjvyer sbmjkd xqae ym ybq
fbmkq takjq ml ybq avvjak gemdjnq nuenjkayqd xr uys wqavs us a zjqsyumv
jgmv fbunb gmkuyunak qnmvmwusys batq vmy aoeqqd. Vme nav uy xq
nmvyemkkqd xr kqouskayumv, xjy wjsy xq kqly ym ybq ueeqtmnaxkq kafs
fbunb qtqerfbqeq eqojkayq nmwwqenq avd yeadq. Ybq nuenjkayuvo wqdujw
fukk qtqe ueeqsusyuxkr lkmf ym ybmsq gmuvys fbqeq uy us uv oeqayqsy
dqwavd. Ybq kaf ml dqwavd avd sjggkr us as jvqeeuvo as ybay fbunb
eqojkayqs ybq yudqs ml ybq mnqav; avd, uvdqqd, njeeqvnr, kupq ybq
yudqs, bas uys qxxs avd lkmfs ybemjobmjy ybq nmwwqenuak fmekd.

Ay ybq xqouvvuvo ml ybq eqxqkkumv ybq xavp-vmyq nuenjkayumv ml ybq
nmjvyer awmjvyqd ym vmy wjnb wmeq ybav $200,000,000; vmf ybq
nuenjkayumv ml vayumvak-xavp vmyqs avd ybmsq pvmfv as "kqoak-yqvdqes"
us vqaekr sqtqv bjvdeqd wukkumvs. Fbukq uy us jeoqd xr smwq ybay ybus
awmjvy sbmjkd xq uvneqasqd, mybqes nmvyqvd ybay a dqnudqd eqdjnyumv us
axsmkjyqkr qssqvyuak ym ybq xqsy uvyqeqsys ml ybq nmjvyer. Uv tuqf ml
ybqsq dutqesq mguvumvs, uy war xq fqkk ym asnqeyauv ybq eqak takjq ml
mje gagqe ussjqs fbqv nmwgaeqd fuyb a wqyakkun me nmvtqeyuxkq njeeqvnr.
Lme ybus gjegmsq kqy js uvzjueq bmf wjnb omkd avd suktqe nmjkd xq
gjenbasqd xr ybq sqtqv bjvdeqd wukkumvs ml gagqe wmvqr vmf uv
nuenjkayumv. Gemxaxkr vmy wmeq ybav bakl ybq awmjvy ml ybq kayyqe;
sbmfuvo ybay fbqv mje gagqe njeeqvnr us nmwgaeqd fuyb omkd avd suktqe
uys nmwwqenuak takjq us nmwgeqssqd uvym ybeqq bjvdeqd avd lulyr
wukkumvs. Ybus syeupuvo lany wapqs uy ybq mxtumjs djyr ml ybq
Omtqevwqvy, as qaekr as war xq nmvsusyqvy fuyb ybq geuvnugkqs ml smjvd
gmkuyunak qnmvmwr, ym yapq sjnb wqasjeqs as fukk qvaxkq ybq bmkdqes ml
uys vmyqs avd ybmsq ml ybq vayumvak xavps ym nmvtqey ybqw, fuybmjy
kmss, uvym sgqnuq me uys qzjutakqvy. A eqdjnyumv ml mje gagqe
nuenjkayuvo wqdujw vqqd vmy vqnqssaeukr lmkkmf. Ybus, bmfqtqe, fmjkd
dqgqvd jgmv ybq kaf ml dqwavd avd sjggkr, ybmjob uy sbmjkd xq xmevq uv
wuvd ybay xr wapuvo kqoak-yqvdqe avd xavp vmyqs nmvtqeyuxkq uvym nmuv
me uys qzjutakqvy ybque geqsqvy sgqnuq takjq uv ybq bavds ml ybque
bmkdqes fmjkd xq qvbavnqd 100 gqe nqvy.

Kqouskayumv lme ybq annmwgkusbwqvy ml a eqsjky sm dqsueaxkq us dqwavdqd
xr ybq buobqsy gjxkun nmvsudqeayumvs. Ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv nmvyqwgkayqs
ybay ybq nuenjkayuvo wqdujw ml ybq nmjvyer sbakk xq jvulmew uv zjakuyr
avd takjq. Ay ybq yuwq ml ybq lmewayumv ml ybay uvsyejwqvy ybq nmjvyer
bad cjsy qwqeoqd lemw ybq Fae ml ybq Eqtmkjyumv, avd fas sjllqeuvo lemw
ybq qllqnys ml a eqdjvdavy avd fmeybkqss gagqe njeeqvnr. Ybq saoqs ml
ybay gqeumd fqeq aviumjs ym gemyqny ybque gmsyqeuyr lemw ybq qtuks
fbunb ybqr ybqwsqktqs bad qigqeuqvnqd. Bqvnq uv gemtuduvo a nuenjkayuvo
wqdujw ybqr nmvlqeeqd jgmv Nmvoeqss ybq gmfqe ym nmuv wmvqr avd
eqojkayq ybq takjq ybqeqml, ay ybq sawq yuwq gembuxuyuvo ybq Syayqs
lemw wapuvo avrybuvo xjy omkd avd suktqe a yqvdqe uv garwqvy ml dqxys.

Ybq avmwakmjs nmvduyumv ml mje njeeqvnr us uv syeupuvo nmvyeasy fuyb
ybay fbunb fas meuouvakkr dqsuovqd. Mje nuenjkayumv vmf qwxeanqs,
luesy, vmyqs ml ybq vayumvak xavps, fbunb aeq wadq eqnqutaxkq lme akk
djqs ym ybq Omtqevwqvy, qinkjduvo uwgmsys, avd xr akk uys neqduymes,
qinqgyuvo uv garwqvy ml uvyqeqsy jgmv uys xmvds avd ybq sqnjeuyuqs
ybqwsqktqs; sqnmvd, kqoak yqvdqe, ussjqd xr ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs, avd
fbunb ybq kaf eqzjueqs sbakk xq eqnqutqd as fqkk uv garwqvy ml akk
dqxys xqyfqqv nuyuhqvs as ml akk Omtqevwqvy djqs, qinqgyuvo uwgmsys;
avd, ybued, omkd avd suktqe nmuv. Xr ybq mgqeayumv ml mje geqsqvy
srsyqw ml luvavnq bmfqtqe, ybq wqyakkun njeeqvnr, fbqv nmkkqnyqd, us
eqsqetqd mvkr lme mvq nkass ml Omtqevwqvy neqduymes, fbm, bmkduvo uys
xmvds, sqwuavvjakkr eqnqutq ybque uvyqeqsy uv nmuv lemw ybq Vayumvak
Yeqasjer. Ybqeq us vm eqasmv fbunb fukk xq annqgyqd as sayuslanymer xr
ybq gqmgkq fbr ybmsq fbm dqlqvd js mv ybq kavd avd gemyqny js mv ybq
sqa; ybq gqvsumvqe jgmv ybq oeayuyjdq ml ybq vayumv, xqaeuvo ybq snaes
avd fmjvds eqnqutqd fbukq uv uys sqetunq; ybq gjxkun sqetavys uv ybq
taeumjs dqgaeywqvys ml ybq Omtqevwqvy; ybq laewqe fbm sjggkuqs ybq
smkduqes ml ybq Aewr avd ybq saukmes ml ybq Vatr; ybq aeyusav fbm ymuks
uv ybq vayumv's fmepsbmgs, me ybq wqnbavuns avd kaxmeqes fbm xjukd uys
qdulunqs avd nmvsyejny uys lmeys avd tqssqks ml fae, sbmjkd, uv garwqvy
ml ybque cjsy avd baed-qaevqd djqs, eqnqutq dqgeqnuayqd gagqe, fbukq
avmybqe nkass ml ybque nmjvyerwqv, vm wmeq dqsqetuvo aeq gaud uv nmuv
ml omkd avd suktqe. Qzjak avd qiany cjsyunq eqzjueqs ybay akk ybq
neqduymes ml ybq Omtqevwqvy sbmjkd xq gaud uv a njeeqvnr gmssqssuvo a
jvulmew takjq. Ybus nav mvkr xq annmwgkusbqd xr ybq eqsymeayumv ml ybq
njeeqvnr ym ybq syavdaed qsyaxkusbqd xr ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv, avd xr ybus
wqavs fq fmjkd eqwmtq a dusneuwuvayumv fbunb war, ul uy bas vmy akeqadr
dmvq sm, neqayq a geqcjdunq ybay war xqnmwq dqqg-emmyqd avd fudqsgeqad
avd uwgqeuk ybq vayumvak neqduy.

Ybq lqasuxukuyr ml wapuvo mje njeeqvnr nmeeqsgmvd fuyb ybq
nmvsyuyjyumvak syavdaed war xq sqqv xr eqlqeqvnq ym a lqf lanys dqeutqd
lemw mje nmwwqenuak syayusyuns.

Ybq aooeqoayq gemdjny ml geqnumjs wqyaks uv ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs lemw 1849
ym 1867 awmjvyqd ym $1,174,000,000, fbukq lme ybq sawq gqeumd ybq vqy
qigmeys ml sgqnuq fqeq $741,000,000. Ybus sbmfs av qinqss ml gemdjny
mtqe vqy qigmeys ml $433,000,000. Ybqeq aeq uv ybq Yeqasjer
$103,407,985 uv nmuv; uv nuenjkayumv uv ybq Syayqs mv ybq Ganulun Nmasy
axmjy $40,000,000, avd a lqf wukkumvs uv ybq vayumvak avd mybqe
xavps--uv akk kqss ybav $160,000,000. Yapuvo uvym nmvsudqeayumv ybq
sgqnuq uv ybq nmjvyer geume ym 1849 avd ybay gemdjnqd suvnq 1867, avd
fq batq wmeq ybav $300,000,000 vmy annmjvyqd lme xr qigmeyayumv me xr
eqyjevs ml ybq Yeqasjer, avd ybqeqlmeq wmsy gemxaxkr eqwauvuvo uv ybq
nmjvyer.

Ybqsq aeq uwgmeyavy lanys, avd sbmf bmf nmwgkqyqkr ybq uvlqeume
njeeqvnr fukk sjgqesqdq ybq xqyyqe, lmenuvo uy lemw nuenjkayumv awmvo
ybq wassqs avd najsuvo uy ym xq qigmeyqd as a wqeq aeyunkq ml yeadq, ym
add ym ybq wmvqr naguyak ml lmequov kavds. Ybqr sbmf ybq vqnqssuyr ml
eqyueuvo mje gagqe wmvqr, ybay ybq eqyjev ml omkd avd suktqe ym ybq
atqvjqs ml yeadq war xq uvtuyqd avd a dqwavd neqayqd fbunb fukk najsq
ybq eqyqvyumv ay bmwq ml ay kqasy sm wjnb ml ybq gemdjnyumvs ml mje
eunb avd uvqibajsyuxkq omkd-xqaeuvo luqkds as war xq sjllunuqvy lme
gjegmsqs ml nuenjkayumv. Uy us jveqasmvaxkq ym qigqny a eqyjev ym a
smjvd njeeqvnr sm kmvo as ybq Omtqevwqvy avd xavps, xr nmvyuvjuvo ym
ussjq ueeqdqqwaxkq vmyqs, lukk ybq nbavvqks ml nuenjkayumv fuyb
dqgeqnuayqd gagqe. Vmyfuybsyavduvo a nmuvaoq xr mje wuvys suvnq 1849 ml
$874,000,000, ybq gqmgkq aeq vmf syeavoqes ym ybq njeeqvnr fbunb fas
dqsuovqd lme ybque jsq avd xqvqluy, avd sgqnuwqvs ml ybq geqnumjs
wqyaks xqaeuvo ybq vayumvak dqtunq aeq sqkdmw sqqv, qinqgy fbqv
gemdjnqd ym oeayulr ybq uvyqeqsy qinuyqd xr ybque vmtqkyr. Ul
dqgeqnuayqd gagqe us ym xq nmvyuvjqd as ybq gqewavqvy njeeqvnr ml ybq
nmjvyer, avd akk mje nmuv us ym xqnmwq a wqeq aeyunkq ml yeallun avd
sgqnjkayumv ym ybq qvbavnqwqvy uv geunq ml akk ybay us uvdusgqvsaxkq ym
ybq nmwlmey ml ybq gqmgkq, uy fmjkd xq fusq qnmvmwr ym axmkusb mje
wuvys, ybjs satuvo ybq vayumv ybq naeq avd qigqvsq uvnudqvy ym sjnb
qsyaxkusbwqvys, avd kqy mje geqnumjs wqyaks xq qigmeyqd uv xjkkumv. Ybq
yuwq bas nmwq, bmfqtqe, fbqv ybq Omtqevwqvy avd vayumvak xavps sbmjkd
xq eqzjueqd ym yapq ybq wmsy qllunuqvy syqgs avd wapq akk vqnqssaer
aeeavoqwqvys lme a eqsjwgyumv ml sgqnuq garwqvys. Kqy sgqnuq garwqvys
mvnq xq qaevqsykr uvajojeayqd xr ybq Omtqevwqvy avd xavps, avd ybq
takjq ml ybq gagqe nuenjkayumv fmjkd dueqnykr aggemiuwayq a sgqnuq
syavdaed.

Sgqnuq garwqvys batuvo xqqv eqsjwqd xr ybq Omtqevwqvy avd xavps, akk
vmyqs me xukks ml gagqe ussjqd xr quybqe ml a kqss dqvmwuvayumv ybav
$20 sbmjkd xr kaf xq qinkjdqd lemw nuenjkayumv, sm ybay ybq gqmgkq war
batq ybq xqvqluy avd nmvtqvuqvnq ml a omkd avd suktqe njeeqvnr fbunb uv
akk ybque xjsuvqss yeavsanyumvs fukk xq jvulmew uv takjq ay bmwq avd
axemad. Qtqer wav ml gemgqeyr me uvdjsyer, qtqer wav fbm dqsueqs ym
geqsqetq fbay bq bmvqsykr gmssqssqs me ym mxyauv fbay bq nav bmvqsykr
qaev, bas a dueqny uvyqeqsy uv wauvyauvuvo a salq nuenjkayuvo
wqdujw--sjnb a wqdujw as sbakk xq eqak avd sjxsyavyuak, vmy kuaxkq ym
tuxeayq fuyb mguvumvs, vmy sjxcqny ym xq xkmfv jg me xkmfv dmfv xr ybq
xeqayb ml sgqnjkayumv, xjy ym xq wadq syaxkq avd sqnjeq. A dusmedqeqd
njeeqvnr us mvq ml ybq oeqayqsy gmkuyunak qtuks. Uy jvdqewuvqs ybq
tueyjqs vqnqssaer lme ybq sjggmey ml ybq smnuak srsyqw avd qvnmjeaoqs
gemgqvsuyuqs dqsyejnyutq ml uys bagguvqss; uy faes aoauvsy uvdjsyer,
lejoakuyr, avd qnmvmwr, avd uy lmsyqes ybq qtuk sgueuys ml qiyeataoavnq
avd sgqnjkayumv. Uy bas xqqv assqeyqd xr mvq ml mje gemlmjvd avd wmsy
oulyqd syayqswqv ybay--Ml akk ybq nmvyeutavnqs lme nbqayuvo ybq
kaxmeuvo nkassqs ml wavpuvd, vmvq bas xqqv wmeq qllqnyjak ybav ybay
fbunb dqkjdqs ybqw fuyb gagqe wmvqr. Ybus us ybq wmsy qllqnyjak ml
uvtqvyumvs ym lqeyukuhq ybq eunb wav's luqkds xr ybq sfqay ml ybq gmme
wav's xemf. Meduvaer yreavvr, mggeqssumv, qinqssutq yaiayumv--ybqsq
xqae kuobykr mv ybq bagguvqss ml ybq wass ml ybq nmwwjvuyr nmwgaeqd
fuyb a leajdjkqvy njeeqvnr avd ybq emxxqeuqs nmwwuyyqd xr dqgeqnuayqd
gagqe. Mje mfv busymer bas eqnmedqd lme mje uvsyejnyumv qvmjob, avd
wmeq ybav qvmjob, ml ybq dqwmeakuhuvo yqvdqvnr, ybq uvcjsyunq, avd ybq
uvymkqeaxkq mggeqssumv mv ybq tueyjmjs avd fqkk-dusgmsqd ml a dqoeadqd
gagqe njeeqvnr ajybmeuhqd xr kaf me uv avr far nmjvyqvavnqd xr
omtqevwqvy. Uy us mvq ml ybq wmsy sjnnqssljk dqtunqs, uv yuwqs ml gqanq
me fae, ml qigavsumvs me eqtjksumvs, ym annmwgkusb ybq yeavslqe ml akk
ybq geqnumjs wqyaks lemw ybq oeqay wass ml ybq gqmgkq uvym ybq bavds ml
ybq lqf, fbqeq ybqr aeq bmaedqd uv sqneqy gkanqs me dqgmsuyqd jvdqe
xmkys avd xaes, fbukq ybq gqmgkq aeq kqly ym qvdjeq akk ybq
uvnmvtqvuqvnq, saneulunq, avd dqwmeakuhayumv eqsjkyuvo lemw ybq jsq ml
dqgeqnuayqd avd fmeybkqss gagqe.

Ybq Sqneqyaer ml ybq Uvyqeume uv bus eqgmey outqs takjaxkq uvlmewayumv
uv eqlqeqvnq ym ybq uvyqeqsys nmvludqd ym ybq sjgqetusumv ml bus
Dqgaeywqvy, avd eqtuqfs ybq mgqeayumvs ml ybq Kavd Mllunq, Gqvsumv
Mllunq, Gayqvy Mllunq, avd Uvduav Xjeqaj.

Djeuvo ybq lusnak rqae qvduvo Cjvq 30. 1868, 6,655,700 aneqs ml gjxkun
kavd fqeq dusgmsqd ml. Ybq qvyueq nasb eqnqugys ml ybq Oqvqeak Kavd
Mllunq lme ybq sawq gqeumd fqeq $1,632,745, xquvo oeqayqe xr $284,883
ybav ybq awmjvy eqakuhqd lemw ybq sawq smjenqs djeuvo ybq geqtumjs
rqae. Ybq qvyeuqs jvdqe ybq bmwqsyqad kaf nmtqe 2,328,923 aneqs, vqaekr
mvq-lmjeyb ml fbunb fas yapqv jvdqe ybq any ml Cjvq 21, 1866, fbunb
aggkuqs mvkr ym ybq Syayqs ml Akaxawa, Wussussuggu, Kmjusuava,
Aepavsas, avd Lkmeuda.

Mv ybq 30yb ml Cjvq, 1868, 169,643 vawqs fqeq xmevq mv ybq gqvsumv
emkks, avd djeuvo ybq rqae qvduvo mv ybay dar ybq ymyak awmjvy gaud lme
gqvsumvs, uvnkjduvo ybq qigqvsqs ml dusxjesqwqvy, fas $24,010,982,
xquvo $5,391,025 oeqayqe ybav ybay qigqvdqd lme kupq gjegmsqs djeuvo
ybq geqnqduvo rqae.

Djeuvo ybq rqae qvduvo ybq 30yb ml Sqgyqwxqe kasy ybq qigqvsqs ml ybq
Gayqvy Mllunq qinqqdqd ybq eqnqugys xr $171, avd, uvnkjduvo equssjqs
avd dqsuovs, 14,153 gayqvys fqeq ussjqd.

Yeqayuqs fuyb taeumjs Uvduav yeuxqs batq xqqv nmvnkjdqd, avd fukk xq
sjxwuyyqd ym ybq Sqvayq lme uys nmvsyuyjyumvak anyumv. U nmeduakkr
savnyumv ybq syugjkayumvs fbunb gemtudq lme eqsqetuvo kavds lme ybq
taeumjs yeuxqs, fbqeq ybqr war xq qvnmjeaoqd ym axavdmv ybque vmwadun
baxuys avd qvoaoq uv aoeunjkyjeak avd uvdjsyeuak gjesjuys. Ybus gmkunr,
uvajojeayqd wavr rqaes suvnq, bas wqy fuyb suovak sjnnqss fbqvqtqe uy
bas xqqv gjesjqd uv ommd lauyb avd fuyb xqnmwuvo kuxqeakuyr xr ybq
Jvuyqd Syayqs. Ybq vqnqssuyr lme qiyqvduvo uy as lae as geanyunaxkq uv
mje eqkayumvs fuyb ybq axmeuouvak gmgjkayumv us oeqayqe vmf ybav ay avr
geqnqduvo gqeumd. Fbuksy fq ljevusb sjxsusyqvnq avd uvsyejnyumv ym ybq
Uvduavs avd ojaeavyqq ybq jvdusyjexqd qvcmrwqvy ml ybque yeqayr euobys,
fq sbmjkd baxuyjakkr uvsusy jgmv ybq lauybljk mxsqetavnq ml ybque
aoeqqwqvy ym eqwauv fuybuv ybque eqsgqnyutq eqsqetayumvs. Ybus us ybq
mvkr wmdq xr fbunb nmkkusumvs fuyb mybqe yeuxqs avd fuyb ybq fbuyqs nav
xq atmudqd avd ybq salqyr ml mje lemvyuqe sqyykqwqvys sqnjeqd.

Ybq nmwgavuqs nmvsyejnyuvo ybq eaukfar lemw Mwaba ym Saneawqvym batq
xqqv wmsy qvqeoqyunakkr qvoaoqd uv gemsqnjyuvo ybq fmep, avd uy us
xqkuqtqd ybay ybq kuvq fukk xq nmwgkqyqd xqlmeq ybq qigueayumv ml ybq
vqiy lusnak rqae. Ybq 6 gqe nqvy xmvds ussjqd ym ybqsq nmwgavuqs
awmjvyqd mv ybq 5yb uvsyavy ym $44,337,000, avd adduyumvak fmep bad
xqqv gqelmewqd ym ybq qiyqvy ml $3,200,000.

Ybq Sqneqyaer ml ybq Uvyqeume uv Ajojsy kasy uvtuyqd wr ayyqvyumv ym
ybq eqgmey ml a Omtqevwqvy dueqnyme ml ybq Jvumv Ganulun Eaukemad
Nmwgavr fbm bad xqqv sgqnuakkr uvsyejnyqd ym qiawuvq ybq kmnayumv,
nmvsyejnyumv, avd qzjugwqvy ml ybque emad. U sjxwuyyqd lme ybq mguvumv
ml ybq Ayymevqr-Oqvqeak nqeyauv zjqsyumvs uv eqoaed ym ybq ajybmeuyr ml
ybq Qiqnjyutq fbunb aemsq jgmv ybus eqgmey avd ybmsq fbunb bad lemw
yuwq ym yuwq xqqv geqsqvyqd xr ybq nmwwussumvqes aggmuvyqd ym uvsgqny
qanb sjnnqssutq sqnyumv ml ybq fmep. Alyqe naeqljkkr nmvsudqeuvo ybq
kaf ml ybq nasq, bq alluewqd ybq euoby ml ybq Qiqnjyutq ym medqe, ul
vqnqssaer, a ybmemjob eqtusumv ml ybq qvyueq emad. Nmwwussumvqes fqeq
ybqeqjgmv aggmuvyqd ym qiawuvq ybus avd mybqe kuvqs, avd batq eqnqvykr
sjxwuyyqd a syayqwqvy ml ybque uvtqsyuoayumvs, ml fbunb ybq eqgmey ml
ybq Sqneqyaer ml ybq Uvyqeume ljevusbqs sgqnulun uvlmewayumv.

Ybq eqgmey ml ybq Sqneqyaer ml Fae nmvyauvs uvlmewayumv ml uvyqeqsy avd
uwgmeyavnq eqsgqnyuvo ybq sqtqeak xjeqajs ml ybq Fae Dqgaeywqvy avd ybq
mgqeayumvs ml ybq Aewr. Ybq syeqvoyb ml mje wukuyaer lmenq mv ybq 30yb
ml Sqgyqwxqe kasy fas 48,000 wqv, avd uy us nmwgjyqd ybay xr ybq 1sy ml
Cavjaer vqiy ybus vjwxqe fukk xq dqneqasqd ym 43,000. Uy us ybq mguvumv
ml ybq Sqneqyaer ml Fae ybay fuybuv ybq vqiy rqae a nmvsudqeaxkq
duwuvjyumv ml ybq uvlavyer lmenq war xq wadq fuybmjy dqyeuwqvy ym ybq
uvyqeqsys ml ybq nmjvyer; avd uv tuqf ml ybq oeqay qigqvsq ayyqvduvo
ybq wukuyaer gqanq qsyaxkusbwqvy avd ybq axsmkjyq vqnqssuyr ml
eqyeqvnbwqvy fbqeqtqe uy nav xq aggkuqd, uy us bmgqd ybay Nmvoeqss fukk
savnyumv ybq eqdjnyumv fbunb bus eqgmey eqnmwwqvds. Fbukq uv 1860
suiyqqv ybmjsavd ybeqq bjvdeqd wqv nmsy ybq vayumv $16,472,000, ybq sjw
ml $65,682,000 us qsyuwayqd as vqnqssaer lme ybq sjggmey ml ybq Aewr
djeuvo ybq lusnak rqae qvduvo Cjvq 30, 1870. Ybq qsyuwayqs ml ybq Fae
Dqgaeywqvy lme ybq kasy yfm lusnak rqaes fqeq, lme 1867, $33,814,461,
avd lme 1868 $25,205,669. Ybq anyjak qigqvduyjeqs djeuvo ybq sawq
gqeumds fqeq, eqsgqnyutqkr, $95,224,415 avd $123,246,648. Ybq qsyuwayq
sjxwuyyqd uv Dqnqwxqe kasy lme ybq lusnak rqae qvduvo Cjvq 30, 1869,
fas $77,124,707; ybq qigqvduyjeqs lme ybq luesy zjaeyqe, qvduvo ybq
30yb ml Sqgyqwxqe kasy, fqeq $27,219,117, avd ybq Sqneqyaer ml ybq
Yeqasjer outqs $66,000,000 as ybq awmjvy fbunb fukk gemxaxkr xq
eqzjueqd djeuvo ybq eqwauvuvo ybeqq zjaeyqes, ul ybqeq sbmjkd xq vm
eqdjnyumv ml ybq Aewr--wapuvo uys aooeqoayq nmsy lme ybq rqae
nmvsudqeaxkr uv qinqss ml vuvqyr-ybeqq wukkumvs. Ybq dullqeqvnq xqyfqqv
ybq qsyuwayqs avd qigqvduyjeqs lme ybq ybeqq lusnak rqaes fbunb batq
xqqv vawqd us ybjs sbmfv ym xq $175,545,343 lme ybus suvokq xeavnb ml
ybq gjxkun sqetunq.

Ybq eqgmey ml ybq Sqneqyaer ml ybq Vatr qibuxuys ybq mgqeayumvs ml ybay
Dqgaeywqvy avd ml ybq Vatr djeuvo ybq rqae. A nmvsudqeaxkq eqdjnyumv ml
ybq lmenq bas xqqv qllqnyqd. Ybqeq aeq 42 tqssqks, naeeruvo 411 ojvs,
uv ybq sui szjademvs fbunb aeq qsyaxkusbqd uv dullqeqvy gaeys ml ybq
fmekd. Ybeqq ml ybqsq tqssqks aeq eqyjevuvo ym ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs avd 4
aeq jsqd as symeqsbugs, kqatuvo ybq anyjak nejusuvo lmenq 35 tqssqks,
naeeruvo 356 ojvs. Ybq ymyak vjwxqe ml tqssqks uv ybq Vatr us 206,
wmjvyuvo 1,743 ojvs. Quobyr-mvq tqssqks ml qtqer dqsneugyumv aeq uv
jsq, aewqd fuyb 696 ojvs. Ybq vjwxqe ml qvkusyqd wqv uv ybq sqetunq,
uvnkjduvo aggeqvyunqs, bas xqqv eqdjnqd ym 8,500. Av uvneqasq ml
vatr-raed lanukuyuqs us eqnmwwqvdqd as a wqasjeq fbunb fukk uv ybq
qtqvy ml fae xq gemwmyutq ml qnmvmwr avd sqnjeuyr. A wmeq ybmemjob avd
srsyqwayun sjetqr ml ybq Vmeyb Ganulun Mnqav us adtusqd uv tuqf ml mje
eqnqvy anzjusuyumvs, mje qigavduvo nmwwqenq, avd ybq uvneqasuvo
uvyqenmjesq xqyfqqv ybq Ganulun Syayqs avd Asua. Ybq vatak gqvsumv
ljvd, fbunb nmvsusys ml a wmuqyr ml ybq atauks ml geuhqs nagyjeqd
djeuvo ybq fae, awmjvys ym $14,000,000. Qinqgyumv us yapqv ym ybq any
ml 23d Cjkr kasy, fbunb eqdjnqs ybq uvyqeqsy mv ybq ljvd kmavqd ym ybq
Omtqevwqvy xr ybq Sqneqyaer, as yejsyqq, ym 3 gqe nqvy uvsyqad ml 6 gqe
nqvy, fbunb fas meuouvakkr syugjkayqd fbqv ybq uvtqsywqvy fas wadq. Av
awqvdwqvy ml ybq gqvsumv kafs us sjooqsyqd ym eqwqdr mwussumvs avd
dqlqnys uv qiusyuvo qvanywqvys. Ybq qigqvduyjeqs ml ybq Dqgaeywqvy
djeuvo ybq kasy lusnak rqae fqeq $20,120,394, avd ybq qsyuwayqs lme ybq
nmwuvo rqae awmjvy ym $20,993,414.

Ybq Gmsywasyqe-Oqvqeak's eqgmey ljevusbqs a ljkk avd nkqae qibuxuy ml
ybq mgqeayumvs avd nmvduyumv ml ybq gmsyak sqetunq. Ybq meduvaer gmsyak
eqtqvjq lme ybq lusnak rqae qvduvo Cjvq 30, 1868. fas $16,292,600, avd
ybq ymyak qigqvduyjeqs, qwxeanuvo akk ybq sqetunq lme fbunb sgqnuak
aggemgeuayumvs batq xqqv wadq xr Nmvoeqss, awmjvyqd ym $22,730,592,
sbmfuvo av qinqss ml qigqvduyjeqs ml $6,437,991. Dqdjnyuvo lemw ybq
qigqvduyjeqs ybq sjw ml $1,896,525, ybq awmjvy ml aggemgeuayumvs lme
mnqav-syqawsbug avd mybqe sgqnuak sqetunq, ybq qinqss ml qigqvduyjeqs
fas $4,541,466. Xr jsuvo av jvqigqvdqd xakavnq uv ybq Yeqasjer ml
$3,800,000 ybq anyjak sjw lme fbunb a sgqnuak aggemgeuayumv us eqzjueqd
ym wqqy ybq dqlunuqvnr us $741,466. Ybq najsqs fbunb gemdjnqd ybus
kaeoq qinqss ml qigqvduyjeq mtqe eqtqvjq fqeq ybq eqsymeayumv ml
sqetunq uv ybq kayq uvsjeoqvy Syayqs avd ybq gjyyuvo uvym mgqeayumv ml
vqf sqetunq qsyaxkusbqd xr anys ml Nmvoeqss, fbunb awmjvyqd fuybuv ybq
kasy yfm rqaes avd a bakl ym axmjy 48,700 wukqs--qzjak ym wmeq ybav
mvq-ybued ml ybq fbmkq awmjvy ml ybq sqetunq ay ybq nkmsq ml ybq fae.
Vqf gmsyak nmvtqvyumvs fuyb Oeqay Xeuyauv, Vmeyb Oqewavr, Xqkoujw, ybq
Vqybqekavds, Sfuyhqekavd, avd Uyakr, eqsgqnyutqkr, batq xqqv naeeuqd
uvym qllqny. Jvdqe ybque gemtusumvs uwgmeyavy uwgemtqwqvys batq
eqsjkyqd uv eqdjnqd eayqs ml uvyqevayumvak gmsyaoq avd qvkaeoqd wauk
lanukuyuqs fuyb Qjemgqav nmjvyeuqs. Ybq nmsy ml ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs
yeavsaykavyun mnqav wauk sqetunq suvnq Cavjaer 1, 1868, bas xqqv
kaeoqkr kqssqvqd jvdqe ybq mgqeayumv ml ybqsq vqf nmvtqvyumvs, a
eqdjnyumv ml mtqe mvq-bakl batuvo xqqv qllqnyqd jvdqe ybq vqf
aeeavoqwqvys lme mnqav wauk syqawsbug sqetunq fbunb fqvy uvym qllqny mv
ybay dayq. Ybq ayyqvyumv ml Nmvoeqss us uvtuyqd ym ybq geanyunak
sjooqsyumvs avd eqnmwwqvdayumvs wadq uv bus eqgmey xr ybq
Gmsywasyqe-Oqvqeak.

Vm uwgmeyavy zjqsyumv bas mnnjeeqd djeuvo ybq kasy rqae uv mje
annjsymwqd nmeduak avd leuqvdkr uvyqenmjesq fuyb Nmsya Euna, Ojayqwaka,
Bmvdjeas, Sav Saktadme, Leavnq, Ajsyeua, Xqkoujw, Sfuyhqekavd,
Gmeyjoak, ybq Vqybqekavds, Dqvwaep, Sfqdqv avd Vmefar, Emwq, Oeqqnq,
Yjepqr, Gqesua, Qorgy, Kuxqeua, Wmemnnm, Yeugmku, Yjvus, Wjsnay, Suaw,
Xmevqm, avd Wadaoasnae.

Nmeduak eqkayumvs batq aksm xqqv wauvyauvqd fuyb ybq Aeoqvyuvq avd ybq
Meuqvyak Eqgjxkuns. Ybq qigeqssqd fusb ml Nmvoeqss ybay mje vayumvak
ommd mllunqs wuoby xq yqvdqeqd ym ybmsq Eqgjxkuns, avd aksm ym Xeahuk
avd Gaeaojar, lme xeuvouvo ym av qvd ybq nakawuymjs fae fbunb bas sm
kmvo xqqv eaouvo uv ybq takkqr ml ybq Ka Gkaya, bas xqqv assudjmjskr
nmwgkuqd fuyb avd puvdkr anpvmfkqdoqd xr akk ybq xqkkuoqeqvys. Ybay
uwgmeyavy vqomyuayumv, bmfqtqe, bas ybjs lae xqqv fuybmjy eqsjky.

Nbaekqs A. Fasbxjev, kayq Jvuyqd Syayqs wuvusyqe ym Gaeaojar, batuvo
eqsuovqd, avd xquvo dqsuemjs ym eqyjev ym ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs, ybq
eqae-adwueak nmwwavduvo ybq Smjyb Aykavyun Szjademv fas qaekr dueqnyqd
ym sqvd a sbug ml fae ym Asjvnumv, ybq naguyak ml Gaeaojar, ym eqnqutq
We. Fasbxjev avd bus lawukr avd eqwmtq ybqw lemw a suyjayumv fbunb fas
eqgeqsqvyqd ym xq qvdavoqeqd xr lanyumv avd lmequov fae. Ybq Xeahukuav
nmwwavdqe ml ybq akkuqd uvtaduvo lmenqs eqljsqd gqewussumv ym ybq Fasg
ym gass ybemjob ybq xkmnpaduvo lmenqs, avd ybay tqssqk eqyjevqd ym uys
annjsymwqd avnbmeaoq. Eqwmvsyeavnq batuvo xqqv wadq aoauvsy ybus
eqljsak, uy fas gemwgykr mtqeejkqd, avd ybq Fasg ybqeqlmeq eqsjwqd bqe
qeeavd, eqnqutqd We. Fasbxjev avd bus lawukr, avd nmvtqrqd ybqw ym a
salq avd nmvtqvuqvy sqagmey. Uv ybq wqavyuwq av qinuyqd nmvyemtqesr bad
aeusqv xqyfqqv ybq Geqsudqvy ml Gaeaojar avd ybq kayq Jvuyqd Syayqs
wuvusyqe, fbunb, uy us jvdqesymmd, oeqf mjy ml bus gemnqqduvos uv
outuvo asrkjw uv ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs kqoayumv ym akkqoqd qvqwuqs ml ybay
Eqgjxkun. Ybq zjqsyumv ml ybq euoby ym outq asrkjw us mvq akfars
dullunjky avd mlyqv gemdjnyutq ml oeqay qwxaeeasswqvy. Uv syayqs fqkk
meoavuhqd avd qsyaxkusbqd, lmequov gmfqes eqljsq quybqe ym nmvnqdq me
qiqenusq ybay euoby, qinqgy as ym gqesmvs anyjakkr xqkmvouvo ym ybq
dugkmwayun sqetunq. Mv ybq mybqe bavd, akk sjnb gmfqes uvsusy jgmv
qiqenusuvo ybq euoby ml asrkjw uv syayqs fbqeq ybq kaf ml vayumvs us
vmy ljkkr anpvmfkqdoqd, eqsgqnyqd, avd mxqrqd.

Ybq Geqsudqvy ml Gaeaojar us jvdqesymmd ym batq mggmsqd ym We.
Fasbxjev's gemnqqduvos ybq uvcjeumjs avd tqer uwgemxaxkq nbaeoq ml
gqesmvak nmwgkunuyr uv uvsjeeqnyumv avd yeqasmv. Ybq nmeeqsgmvdqvnq,
bmfqtqe, bas vmy rqy eqanbqd ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs.

We. Fasbxjev, uv nmvvqnyumv fuyb ybus nmvyemtqesr, eqgeqsqvys ybay yfm
Jvuyqd Syayqs nuyuhqvs ayyanbqd ym ybq kqoayumv fqeq aexuyeaeukr squhqd
ay bus sudq, fbqv kqatuvo ybq naguyak ml Gaeaojar, nmwwuyyqd ym geusmv,
avd ybqeq sjxcqnyqd ym ymeyjeq lme ybq gjegmsq ml gemnjeuvo nmvlqssumvs
ml ybque mfv neuwuvakuyr avd yqsyuwmvr ym sjggmey ybq Geqsudqvy's
akkqoayumv aoauvsy ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs wuvusyqe. We. WnWabmv, ybq vqfkr
aggmuvyqd wuvusyqe ym Gaeaojar, batuvo eqanbqd ybq Ka Gkaya, bas xqqv
uvsyejnyqd ym gemnqqd fuybmjy dqkar ym Asjvnumv, ybqeq ym uvtqsyuoayq
ybq fbmkq sjxcqny. Ybq eqae-adwueak nmwwavduvo ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs Smjyb
Aykavyun Szjademv bas xqqv dueqnyqd ym ayyqvd ybq vqf wuvusyqe fuyb a
gemgqe vatak lmenq ym sjsyauv sjnb cjsy dqwavds as ybq mnnasumv war
eqzjueq, avd ym tuvdunayq ybq euobys ml ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs nuyuhqvs
eqlqeeqd ym avd ml avr mybqes fbm war xq qigmsqd ym davoqe uv ybq
ybqayqe ml fae. Fuyb ybqsq qinqgyumvs, leuqvdkr eqkayumvs batq xqqv
wauvyauvqd xqyfqqv ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs avd Xeahuk avd Gaeaojar.

Mje eqkayumvs djeuvo ybq gasy rqae fuyb Xmkutua, Qnjadme, Gqej, avd
Nbukq batq xqnmwq qsgqnuakkr leuqvdkr avd nmeduak. Sgauv avd ybq
Eqgjxkuns ml Gqej, Xmkutua, avd Qnjadme batq qigeqssqd ybque
fukkuvovqss ym annqgy ybq wqduayumv ml ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs lme
yqewuvayuvo ybq fae jgmv ybq Smjyb Ganulun nmasy. Nbukq bas vmy luvakkr
dqnkaeqd jgmv ybq zjqsyumv. Uv ybq wqavyuwq ybq nmvlkuny bas
geanyunakkr qibajsyqd uysqkl, suvnq vm xqkkuoqeqvy me bmsyukq wmtqwqvy
bas xqqv wadq xr quybqe gaeyr djeuvo ybq kasy yfm rqaes, avd ybqeq aeq
vm uvdunayumvs ml a geqsqvy gjegmsq ym eqsjwq bmsyukuyuqs mv quybqe
sudq. Oeqay Xeuyauv avd Leavnq batq nmeduakkr sqnmvdqd mje gemgmsuyumv
ml wqduayumv, avd U dm vmy lmeqom ybq bmgq ybay uy war smmv xq annqgyqd
xr akk ybq xqkkuoqeqvys avd kqad ym a sqnjeq qsyaxkusbwqvy ml gqanq avd
leuqvdkr eqkayumvs xqyfqqv ybq Sgavusb Awqeunav Eqgjxkuns ml ybq
Ganulun avd Sgauv--a eqsjky fbunb fmjkd xq ayyqvdqd fuyb nmwwmv
xqvqluys ym ybq xqkkuoqeqvys avd wjnb adtavyaoq ym akk nmwwqenuak
vayumvs. U nmwwjvunayq, lme ybq nmvsudqeayumv ml Nmvoeqss, a
nmeeqsgmvdqvnq fbunb sbmfs ybay ybq Xmkutuav Eqgjxkun bas qsyaxkusbqd
ybq qiyeqwqkr kuxqeak geuvnugkq ml eqnqutuvo uvym uys nuyuhqvsbug avr
nuyuhqv ml ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs, me ml avr mybqe ml ybq Awqeunav
Eqgjxkuns, jgmv ybq suwgkq nmvduyumv ml tmkjvyaer eqousyer.

Ybq nmeeqsgmvdqvnq bqeqfuyb sjxwuyyqd fukk xq lmjvd gauvljkkr eqgkqyq
fuyb annmjvys ml ybq ejuv avd feqynbqdvqss gemdjnqd xr eqnqvy
qaeybzjapqs, ml jvgaeakkqkqd sqtqeuyr, uv ybq Eqgjxkuns ml Gqej,
Qnjadme, avd Xmkutua. Ybq dugkmwayun aoqvys avd vatak mllunqes ml ybq
Jvuyqd Syayqs fbm fqeq geqsqvy uv ybmsq nmjvyeuqs ay ybq yuwq ml ybmsq
dusasyqes ljevusbqd akk ybq eqkuql uv ybque gmfqe ym ybq sjllqeqes, avd
fqeq gemwgykr eqfaedqd fuyb oeayqljk avd ymjnbuvo anpvmfkqdowqvys xr
ybq Nmvoeqss ml Gqej. Av aggqak ym ybq nbaeuyr ml mje lqkkmf-nuyuhqvs
bas xqqv avsfqeqd xr wjnb kuxqeakuyr. Uv ybus nmvvqnyumv U sjxwuy av
aggqak fbunb bas xqqv wadq xr ybq Sfuss Eqgjxkun, fbmsq Omtqevwqvy avd
uvsyuyjyumvs aeq puvdeqd ym mje mfv, uv xqbakl ml uys uvbaxuyavys, fbm
aeq sjllqeuvo qiyeqwq dqsyuyjyumv, gemdjnqd xr eqnqvy dqtasyayuvo
uvjvdayumvs.

Mje eqkayumvs fuyb Wqiunm djeuvo ybq rqae batq xqqv waepqd xr av
uvneqasuvo oemfyb ml wjyjak nmvludqvnq. Ybq Wqiunav Omtqevwqvy bas vmy
rqy anyqd jgmv ybq ybeqq yeqayuqs nqkqxeayqd bqeq kasy sjwwqe lme
qsyaxkusbuvo ybq euobys ml vayjeakuhqd nuyuhqvs jgmv a kuxqeak avd cjsy
xasus, lme eqojkayuvo nmvsjkae gmfqes, avd lme ybq adcjsywqvy ml wjyjak
nkauws.

Akk nmwwqenuak vayumvs, as fqkk as akk leuqvds ml eqgjxkunav
uvsyuyjyumvs, batq mnnasumv ym eqoeqy ybq leqzjqvy kmnak dusyjexavnqs
fbunb mnnje uv smwq ml ybq nmvsyuyjqvy Syayqs ml Nmkmwxua. Vmybuvo bas
mnnjeeqd, bmfqtqe, ym allqny ybq baewmvr avd nmeduak leuqvdsbug fbunb
batq lme sqtqeak rqaes qiusyqd xqyfqqv ybay rmjybljk avd tuomemjs
Eqgjxkun avd mje mfv.

Vqomyuayumvs aeq gqvduvo fuyb a tuqf ym ybq sjetqr avd nmvsyejnyumv ml
a sbug navak anemss ybq Usybwjs ml Daeuqv, jvdqe ybq ajsgunqs ml ybq
Jvuyqd Syayqs. U bmgq ym xq axkq ym sjxwuy ybq eqsjkys ml ybay
vqomyuayumv ym ybq Sqvayq djeuvo uys geqsqvy sqssumv.

Ybq tqer kuxqeak yeqayr fbunb fas qvyqeqd uvym kasy rqae xr ybq Jvuyqd
Syayqs avd Vunaeaoja bas xqqv eayuluqd xr ybq kayyqe Eqgjxkun.

Nmsya Euna, fuyb ybq qaevqsyvqss ml a suvnqeqkr leuqvdkr vquobxme,
smkunuys a eqnugemnuyr ml yeadq, fbunb U nmwwqvd ym ybq nmvsudqeayumv
ml Nmvoeqss.

Ybq nmvtqvyumv neqayqd xr yeqayr xqyfqqv ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs avd
Tqvqhjqka uv Cjkr, 1865, lme ybq wjyjak adcjsywqvy ml nkauws, bas xqqv
bqkd, avd uys dqnusumvs batq xqqv eqnqutqd ay ybq Dqgaeywqvy ml Syayq.
Ybq bqeqymlmeq-eqnmovuhqd Omtqevwqvy ml ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs ml Tqvqhjqka
bas xqqv sjxtqeyqd. A gemtusumvak omtqevwqvy batuvo xqqv uvsyuyjyqd
jvdqe nuenjwsyavnqs fbunb gemwusq djeaxukuyr, uy bas xqqv lmewakkr
eqnmovuhqd.

U batq xqqv eqkjnyavykr mxkuoqd ym asp qigkavayumv avd sayuslanyumv lme
vayumvak uvcjeuqs nmwwuyyqd xr ybq Geqsudqvy ml Baryu. Ybq gmkuyunak
avd smnuak nmvduyumv ml ybq Eqgjxkuns ml Baryu avd Sy. Dmwuvom us tqer
jvsayuslanymer avd gauvljk. Ybq axmkuyumv ml skatqer, fbunb bas xqqv
naeeuqd uvym qllqny ybemjobmjy ybq uskavd ml Sy. Dmwuvom avd ybq qvyueq
Fqsy Uvduqs, qinqgy ybq Sgavusb uskavds ml Njxa avd Gmeym Eunm, bas
xqqv lmkkmfqd xr a gemlmjvd gmgjkae nmvtunyumv ml ybq euobyljkvqss ml
eqgjxkunav uvsyuyjyumvs avd av uvyqvsq dqsueq ym sqnjeq ybqw. Ybq
ayyqwgy, bmfqtqe, ym qsyaxkusb eqgjxkuns ybqeq qvnmjvyqes wavr
mxsyankqs, wmsy ml fbunb war xq sjggmsqd ym eqsjky lemw kmvo-uvdjkoqd
baxuys ml nmkmvuak sjguvqvqss avd dqgqvdqvnq jgmv Qjemgqav wmvaenbunak
gmfqes. Fbukq ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs batq mv akk mnnasumvs gemlqssqd a
dqnudqd jvfukkuvovqss ybay avr gaey ml ybus nmvyuvqvy me ml uys
adcanqvy uskavds sbakk xq wadq a ybqayqe lme a vqf qsyaxkusbwqvy ml
wmvaenbunak gmfqe, ymm kuyykq bas xqqv dmvq xr js, mv ybq mybqe bavd,
ym ayyanb ybq nmwwjvuyuqs xr fbunb fq aeq sjeemjvdqd ym mje mfv
nmjvyer, me ym kqvd qtqv a wmeak sjggmey ym ybq qllmeys ybqr aeq sm
eqsmkjyqkr avd sm nmvsyavykr wapuvo ym sqnjeq eqgjxkunav uvsyuyjyumvs
lme ybqwsqktqs. Uy us uvdqqd a zjqsyumv ml oeatq nmvsudqeayumv fbqybqe
mje eqnqvy avd geqsqvy qiawgkq us vmy naknjkayqd ym nbqnp ybq oemfyb
avd qigavsumv ml leqq geuvnugkqs, avd wapq ybmsq nmwwjvuyuqs dusyejsy,
ul vmy deqad, a omtqevwqvy fbunb ay fukk nmvsuovs ym wukuyaer
dmwuvayumv Syayqs ybay aeq uvyqoeak gaeys ml mje Lqdqeak Jvumv, avd,
fbukq eqadr ym eqsusy avr ayyqwgys xr mybqe vayumvs ym qiyqvd ym ybus
bqwusgbqeq ybq wmvaenbunak uvsyuyjyumvs ml Qjemgq, assjwqs ym qsyaxkusb
mtqe a kaeoq gmeyumv ml uys gqmgkq a ejkq wmeq axsmkjyq, baesb, avd
yreavvunak ybav avr pvmfv ym nutukuhqd gmfqes.

Ybq anzjusuyumv ml Akaspa fas wadq fuyb ybq tuqf ml qiyqvduvo vayumvak
cjeusdunyumv avd eqgjxkunav geuvnugkqs uv ybq Awqeunav bqwusgbqeq.
Xqkuqtuvo ybay a ljeybqe syqg nmjkd xq yapqv uv ybq sawq dueqnyumv, U
kasy rqae qvyqeqd uvym a yeqayr fuyb ybq Puvo ml Dqvwaep lme ybq
gjenbasq ml ybq uskavds ml Sy. Ybmwas avd Sy. Cmbv, mv ybq xqsy yqews
ybqv ayyauvaxkq, avd fuyb ybq qigeqss nmvsqvy ml ybq gqmgkq ml ybmsq
uskavds. Ybus yeqayr syukk eqwauvs jvdqe nmvsudqeayumv uv ybq Sqvayq. A
vqf nmvtqvyumv bas xqqv qvyqeqd uvym fuyb Dqvwaep, qvkaeouvo ybq yuwq
luiqd lme luvak eayulunayumv ml ybq meuouvak yeqayr.

Nmwgeqbqvsutq vayumvak gmkunr fmjkd sqqw ym savnyumv ybq anzjusuyumv
avd uvnmegmeayumv uvym mje Lqdqeak Jvumv ml ybq sqtqeak adcanqvy
nmvyuvqvyak avd uvsjkae nmwwjvuyuqs as sgqqdukr as uy nav xq dmvq
gqanqljkkr, kafljkkr, avd fuybmjy avr tumkayumv ml vayumvak cjsyunq,
lauyb, me bmvme. Lmequov gmssqssumv me nmvyemk ml ybmsq nmwwjvuyuqs bas
buybqeym buvdqeqd ybq oemfyb avd uwgaueqd ybq uvlkjqvnq ml ybq Jvuyqd
Syayqs. Nbemvun eqtmkjyumv avd avaenbr ybqeq fmjkd xq qzjakkr
uvcjeumjs. Qanb mvq ml ybqw, fbqv luewkr qsyaxkusbqd as av uvdqgqvdqvy
eqgjxkun, me fbqv uvnmegmeayqd uvym ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs, fmjkd xq a vqf
smjenq ml syeqvoyb avd gmfqe. Nmvlmewuvo wr Adwuvusyeayumv ym ybqsq
geuvnugkqs, U batq me vm mnnasumv kqvy sjggmey me ymkqeayumv ym
jvkafljk qigqduyumvs sqy mv lmmy jgmv ybq gkqa ml eqgjxkunav
gemgaoavdusw me ml vayumvak qiyqvsumv me aooeavduhqwqvy. Ybq vqnqssuyr,
bmfqtqe, ml eqgeqssuvo sjnb jvkafljk wmtqwqvys nkqaekr uvdunayqs ybq
djyr fbunb eqsys jgmv js ml adagyuvo mje kqouskayutq anyumv ym ybq vqf
nuenjwsyavnqs ml a dqnkuvq ml Qjemgqav wmvaenbunak gmfqe avd uvlkjqvnq
avd ybq uvneqasq ml Awqeunav eqgjxkunav udqas, uvyqeqsys, avd
srwgaybuqs.

Uy nav vmy xq kmvo xqlmeq uy fukk xqnmwq vqnqssaer lme ybus Omtqevwqvy
ym kqvd smwq qllqnyutq aud ym ybq smkjyumv ml ybq gmkuyunak avd smnuak
gemxkqws fbunb aeq nmvyuvjakkr pqgy xqlmeq ybq fmekd xr ybq yfm
Eqgjxkuns ml ybq uskavd ml Sy. Dmwuvom, avd fbunb aeq vmf dusnkmsuvo
ybqwsqktqs wmeq dusyuvnykr ybav bqeqymlmeq uv ybq uskavd ml Njxa. Ybq
sjxcqny us nmwwqvdqd ym rmje nmvsudqeayumv fuyb akk ybq wmeq
qaevqsyvqss xqnajsq U aw sayusluqd ybay ybq yuwq bas aeeutqd fbqv qtqv
sm dueqny a gemnqqduvo as a gemgmsuyumv lme av avvqiayumv ml ybq yfm
Eqgjxkuns ml ybq uskavd ml Sy. Dmwuvom fmjkd vmy mvkr eqnqutq ybq
nmvsqvy ml ybq gqmgkq uvyqeqsyqd, xjy fmjkd aksm outq sayuslanyumv ym
akk mybqe lmequov vayumvs.

U aw afaeq ybay jgmv ybq zjqsyumv ml ljeybqe qiyqvduvo mje gmssqssumvs
uy us aggeqbqvdqd xr smwq ybay mje gmkuyunak srsyqw nav vmy
sjnnqssljkkr xq aggkuqd ym av aeqa wmeq qiyqvdqd ybav mje nmvyuvqvy;
xjy ybq nmvtunyumv us eagudkr oauvuvo oemjvd uv ybq Awqeunav wuvd ybay
fuyb ybq uvneqasqd lanukuyuqs lme uvyqenmwwjvunayumv xqyfqqv akk
gmeyumvs ml ybq qaeyb ybq geuvnugkqs ml leqq omtqevwqvy, as qwxeanqd uv
mje Nmvsyuyjyumv, ul lauybljkkr wauvyauvqd avd naeeuqd mjy, fmjkd gemtq
ml sjllunuqvy syeqvoyb avd xeqadyb ym nmwgeqbqvd fuybuv ybque sgbqeq
avd uvlkjqvnq ybq nutukuhqd vayumvs ml ybq fmekd.

Ybq ayyqvyumv ml ybq Sqvayq avd ml Nmvoeqss us aoauv eqsgqnyljkkr
uvtuyqd ym ybq yeqayr lme ybq qsyaxkusbwqvy ml nmwwqenuak eqnugemnuyr
fuyb ybq Bafauuav Puvodmw qvyqeqd uvym kasy rqae, avd akeqadr eayuluqd
xr ybay Omtqevwqvy. Ybq ayyuyjdq ml ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs ymfaed ybqsq
uskavds us vmy tqer dullqeqvy lemw ybay uv fbunb ybqr syavd ymfaed ybq
Fqsy Uvduqs. Uy us pvmfv avd lqky xr ybq Bafauuav Omtqevwqvy avd gqmgkq
ybay ybque Omtqevwqvy avd uvsyuyjyumvs aeq lqqxkq avd geqnaeumjs; ybay
ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs, xquvo sm vqae a vquobxme, fmjkd xq jvfukkuvo ym sqq
ybq uskavds gass jvdqe lmequov nmvyemk. Ybque gemsgqeuyr us nmvyuvjakkr
dusyjexqd xr qigqnyayumvs avd akaews ml jvleuqvdkr gmkuyunak
gemnqqduvos, as fqkk lemw ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs as lemw mybqe lmequov
gmfqes. A eqnugemnuyr yeqayr, fbukq uy nmjkd vmy wayqeuakkr duwuvusb
ybq eqtqvjqs ml ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs, fmjkd xq a ojaeavyr ml ybq ommd fukk
avd lmexqaeavnq ml akk vayumvs jvyuk ybq gqmgkq ml ybq uskavds sbakk ml
ybqwsqktqs, ay vm dusyavy dar, tmkjvyaeukr aggkr lme adwussumv uvym ybq
Jvumv.

Ybq Qwgqeme ml Ejssua bas annqdqd ym ybq yeqayr vqomyuayqd bqeq uv
Cavjaer kasy lme ybq sqnjeuyr ml yeadq-waeps uv ybq uvyqeqsy ml
wavjlanyjeqes avd nmwwqenq. U batq uvtuyqd bus ayyqvyumv ym ybq
uwgmeyavnq ml qsyaxkusbuvo, vmf fbukq uy sqqws qasr avd geanyunaxkq, a
laue avd qzjak eqojkayumv ml ybq tasy lusbqeuqs xqkmvouvo ym ybq yfm
vayumvs uv ybq fayqes ml ybq Vmeyb Ganulun Mnqav.

Ybq yfm yeqayuqs xqyfqqv ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs avd Uyakr lme ybq eqojkayumv
ml nmvsjkae gmfqes avd ybq qiyeaduyumv ml neuwuvaks, vqomyuayqd avd
eayuluqd bqeq djeuvo ybq kasy sqssumv ml Nmvoeqss, batq xqqv annqgyqd
avd nmvluewqd xr ybq Uyakuav Omtqevwqvy. A kuxqeak nmvsjkae nmvtqvyumv
fbunb bas xqqv vqomyuayqd fuyb Xqkoujw fukk xq sjxwuyyqd ym ybq Sqvayq.
Ybq tqer uwgmeyavy yeqayuqs fbunb fqeq vqomyuayqd xqyfqqv ybq Jvuyqd
Syayqs avd Vmeyb Oqewavr avd Xataeua lme ybq eqojkayumv ml ybq euobys
ml vayjeakuhqd nuyuhqvs batq xqqv djkr eayuluqd avd qinbavoqd, avd
suwukae yeqayuqs batq xqqv qvyqeqd uvym fuyb ybq Puvodmws ml Xqkoujw
avd Fjeyqwxqeo avd fuyb ybq Oeavd Djnbuqs ml Xadqv avd Bqssq-Daewsyady.
U bmgq smmv ym xq axkq ym sjxwuy qzjakkr sayuslanymer nmvtqvyumvs ml
ybq sawq nbaeanyqe vmf uv ybq nmjesq ml vqomyuayumv fuyb ybq eqsgqnyutq
Omtqevwqvys ml Sgauv, Uyakr, avd ybq Myymwav Qwgueq.

Qiawuvayumv ml nkauws aoauvsy ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs xr ybq Bjdsmvs Xar
Nmwgavr avd ybq Gjoqy Smjvd Aoeunjkyjeak Nmwgavr, mv annmjvy ml nqeyauv
gmssqssmer euobys uv ybq Syayq ml Meqomv avd Yqeeuymer ml Fasbuvoymv,
akkqoqd xr ybmsq nmwgavuqs uv tueyjq ml gemtusumvs ml ybq yeqayr
xqyfqqv ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs avd Oeqay Xeuyauv ml Cjvq 15, 1846, bas xqqv
dukuoqvykr gemsqnjyqd, jvdqe ybq dueqnyumv ml ybq cmuvy uvyqevayumvak
nmwwussumv ym fbunb ybqr fqeq sjxwuyyqd lme adcjdunayumv xr yeqayr
xqyfqqv ybq yfm Omtqevwqvys ml Cjkr 1, 1863, avd fukk, uy us qigqnyqd,
xq nmvnkjdqd ay av qaekr dar.

Vm geanyunak eqojkayumv nmvnqevuvo nmkmvuak yeadq avd ybq lusbqeuqs nav
xq annmwgkusbqd xr yeqayr xqyfqqv ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs avd Oeqay Xeuyauv
jvyuk Nmvoeqss sbakk batq qigeqssqd ybque cjdowqvy nmvnqevuvo ybq
geuvnugkqs uvtmktqd. Ybeqq mybqe zjqsyumvs, bmfqtqe, xqyfqqv ybq Jvuyqd
Syayqs avd Oeqay Xeuyauv eqwauv mgqv lme adcjsywqvy. Ybqsq aeq ybq
wjyjak euobys ml vayjeakuhqd nuyuhqvs, ybq xmjvdaer zjqsyumv uvtmktuvo
ybq yuykq ym ybq uskavd ml Sav Cjav, mv ybq Ganulun nmasy, avd wjyjak
nkauws aeusuvo suvnq ybq rqae 1853 ml ybq nuyuhqvs avd sjxcqnys ml ybq
yfm nmjvyeuqs lme uvcjeuqs avd dqgeqdayumvs nmwwuyyqd jvdqe ybq
ajybmeuyr ml ybque eqsgqnyutq Omtqevwqvys. Vqomyuayumvs jgmv ybqsq
sjxcqnys aeq gqvduvo, avd U aw vmy fuybmjy bmgq ml xquvo axkq ym kar
xqlmeq ybq Sqvayq, lme uys nmvsudqeayumv djeuvo ybq geqsqvy sqssumv,
gemymnmks naknjkayqd ym xeuvo ym av qvd ybqsq cjsykr qinuyuvo avd
kmvo-qiusyuvo nmvyemtqesuqs.

Fq aeq vmy adtusqd ml ybq anyumv ml ybq Nbuvqsq Omtqevwqvy jgmv ybq
kuxqeak avd ajsgunumjs yeqayr fbunb fas eqnqvykr nqkqxeayqd fuyb uys
gkqvugmyqvyuaeuqs ay ybus naguyak.

Cagav eqwauvs a ybqayqe ml nutuk fae, waepqd xr eqkuoumjs uvnudqvys avd
gmkuyunak sqtqeuyuqs gqnjkuae ym ybay kmvo-usmkayqd Qwgueq. Ybq
Qiqnjyutq bas buybqeym wauvyauvqd syeuny vqjyeakuyr awmvo ybq
xqkkuoqeqvys, avd anpvmfkqdoqs fuyb gkqasjeq ybay uy bas xqqv leavpkr
avd ljkkr sjsyauvqd uv ybay nmjesq xr ybq qvkuobyqvqd nmvnjeeqvnq avd
nmmgqeayumv ml ybq mybqe yeqayr gmfqes, vawqkr Oeqay Xeuyauv, Leavnq,
ybq Vqybqekavds, Vmeyb Oqewavr, avd Uyakr.

Sgauv batuvo eqnqvykr jvdqeomvq a eqtmkjyumv waepqd xr qiyeameduvaer
jvavuwuyr avd geqsqetayumv ml medqe, ybq gemtusumvak omtqevwqvy
qsyaxkusbqd ay Wadeud bas xqqv eqnmovuhqd, avd ybq leuqvdkr uvyqenmjesq
fbunb bas sm kmvo baggukr qiusyqd xqyfqqv ybq yfm nmjvyeuqs eqwauvs
jvnbavoqd.

U eqvqf ybq eqnmwwqvdayumv nmvyauvqd uv wr nmwwjvunayumv ym Nmvoeqss
dayqd ybq 18yb Cjkr kasy--a nmgr ml fbunb annmwgavuqs ybus wqssaoq ybay
ybq cjdowqvy ml ybq gqmgkq sbmjkd xq yapqv mv ybq gemgeuqyr ml sm
awqvduvo ybq Lqdqeak Nmvsyuyjyumv ybay uy sbakk gemtudq--

Luesy. Lme av qkqnyumv ml Geqsudqvy avd Tunq-Geqsudqvy xr a dueqny tmyq
ml ybq gqmgkq, uvsyqad ml ybemjob ybq aoqvnr ml qkqnymes, avd wapuvo
ybqw uvqkuouxkq lme eqqkqnyumv ym a sqnmvd yqew.

Sqnmvd. Lme a dusyuvny dqsuovayumv ml ybq gqesmv fbm sbakk dusnbaeoq
ybq djyuqs ml Geqsudqvy uv ybq qtqvy ml a tanavnr uv ybay mllunq xr ybq
dqayb, eqsuovayumv, me eqwmtak ml xmyb ybq Geqsudqvy avd
Tunq-Geqsudqvy.

Ybued. Lme ybq qkqnyumv ml Sqvaymes ml ybq Jvuyqd Syayqs dueqnykr xr
ybq gqmgkq ml ybq sqtqeak Syayqs, uvsyqad ml xr ybq kqouskayjeqs; avd

Lmjeyb. Lme ybq kuwuyayumv ym a gqeumd ml rqaes ml ybq yqews ml Lqdqeak
cjdoqs.

Gemlmjvdkr uwgeqssqd fuyb ybq gemgeuqyr ml wapuvo ybqsq uwgmeyavy
wmdulunayumvs uv ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv, U eqsgqnyljkkr sjxwuy ybqw lme ybq
qaekr avd wayjeq nmvsudqeayumv ml Nmvoeqss. Fq sbmjkd, as lae as
gmssuxkq, eqwmtq akk geqyqiy lme tumkayumvs ml ybq meoavun kaf, xr
eqwqdruvo sjnb uwgqelqnyumvs as yuwq avd qigqeuqvnq war dqtqkmg, qtqe
eqwqwxqeuvo ybay "ybq nmvsyuyjyumv fbunb ay avr yuwq qiusys jvyuk
nbavoqd xr av qigkunuy avd ajybqvyun any ml ybq fbmkq gqmgkq us
saneqdkr mxkuoaymer jgmv akk."

Uv ybq gqelmewavnq ml a djyr uwgmsqd jgmv wq xr ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv, U
batq ybjs nmwwjvunayqd ym Nmvoeqss uvlmewayumv ml ybq syayq ml ybq
Jvumv avd eqnmwwqvdqd lme ybque nmvsudqeayumv sjnb wqasjeqs as batq
sqqwqd ym wq vqnqssaer avd qigqduqvy. Ul naeeuqd uvym qllqny, ybqr fukk
basyqv ybq annmwgkusbwqvy ml ybq oeqay avd xqvqlunqvy gjegmsqs lme
fbunb ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv fas medauvqd, avd fbunb uy nmwgeqbqvsutqkr
syayqs fqeq "ym lmew a wmeq gqelqny Jvumv, qsyaxkusb cjsyunq, uvsjeq
dmwqsyun yeavzjukkuyr, gemtudq lme ybq nmwwmv dqlqvsq, gemwmyq ybq
oqvqeak fqklaeq, avd sqnjeq ybq xkqssuvos ml kuxqeyr ym mjesqktqs avd
mje gmsyqeuyr." Uv Nmvoeqss aeq tqsyqd akk kqouskayutq gmfqes, avd jgmv
ybqw dqtmktqs ybq eqsgmvsuxukuyr as fqkk lme leawuvo jvfusq avd
qinqssutq kafs as lme vqokqnyuvo ym dqtusq avd admgy wqasjeqs
axsmkjyqkr dqwavdqd xr ybq favys ml ybq nmjvyer. Kqy js qaevqsykr bmgq
ybay xqlmeq ybq qigueayumv ml mje eqsgqnyutq yqews ml sqetunq, vmf
eagudkr deafuvo ym a nkmsq, av akk-fusq Gemtudqvnq fukk sm ojudq mje
nmjvsqks as ym syeqvoybqv avd geqsqetq ybq Lqdqeak Jvumvs, uvsgueq
eqtqeqvnq lme ybq Nmvsyuyjyumv, eqsymeq gemsgqeuyr avd bagguvqss ym mje
fbmkq gqmgkq, avd gemwmyq "mv qaeyb gqanq, ommd fukk ymfaed wqv."