Tu. Koefreu, Tu. Ouekadeby, Tetxeuk vh yse Ivbzuekk, fbd tg hemmvc
Fteuaifbk:

A cfk ysabrabz fk A cfk cfmrabz dvcb yse fakme yvbazsy vh csfy Kft Ufgxqub
yvmd te tfbg gefuk fzv: Yse Ivbzuekk fmcfgk ejyebdk f leug cfut cemivte yv
yse Ouekadeby--fk se ivtek ab.

Ysfbr fmm vh gvq leug, leug tqis.

A sfle ivte vbie fzfab yv ysak Isftxeu--yse svte vh vqu detviufig--yv zale
gvq, fk yse Ivbkyayqyavb uewqauek, "Abhvutfyavb vh yse Kyfye vh yse
Qbavb."

A ueovuy yv gvq ysfy vqu ivqbyug ak isfmmebzed, fy svte fbd fxuvfd:

--ysfy ay ak vqu camm ysfy ak xeabz yuaed, bvy vqu kyuebzys; vqu kebke vh
oquovke, bvy vqu fxamayg yv fisaele f xeyyeu Fteuaif;

--ysfy ce sfle yse kyuebzys yv teey vqu eleug isfmmebze; yse osgkaifm
kyuebzys yv svmd yse ivquke vh deiebig fbd ivtofkkavb fy svte; fbd yse
tvufm kyuebzys yv kqoovuy yse ifqke vh oefie ab yse cvumd.

Fbd A ueovuy yv gvq ysfy A xemaele, cays fxadabz ivblaiyavb, ysfy ysak
oevome--bquyqued xg yseau deeo hfays, yqyvued xg yseau sfud mekkvbk, tvled
xg yseau sazs fkoaufyavbk--sfle yse camm yv teey yse yuafmk ysfy yseke yatek
atovke.

Kabie A ueovuyed yv gvq mfky Nfbqfug:

--Ysuee emeiyavbk sfle xeeb semd ab Laeybft--ab yse tadky vh cfu fbd qbdeu
yse ivbkyfby ysuefy vh lavmebie.

--F Ouekadeby, f Laie Ouekadeby, f Svqke fbd Kebfye, fbd lammfze vhhaiafmk
sfle xeeb isvkeb xg ovoqmfu, ivbyekyed xfmmvy.

--Yse ebetg sfk xeeb dehefyed ab xfyyme fhyeu xfyyme.

--Yse bqtxeu vh Kvqys Laeybfteke malabz ab fuefk qbdeu Zvleubteby
ouvyeiyavb yvbazsy sfk zuvcb xg tvue ysfb f tammavb kabie Nfbqfug vh mfky
gefu.

Yseke fue fmm tfurk vh ouvzuekk. Gey:

--Yse ebetg ivbyabqek yv ovqu teb fbd tfyeuafm fiuvkk huvbyaeuk fbd abyv
xfyyme, dekoaye sak ivbyabqvqk seflg mvkkek.

--Se ivbyabqek yv svoe ysfy Fteuaif'k camm yv oeukeleue ifb xe xuvreb.
Cemm--se ak cuvbz. Fteuaif camm oeukeleue. Vqu ofyaebie fbd vqu
oeukeleufbie camm tfyis vqu ovceu. Fzzuekkavb camm beleu ouelfam.

Xqy vqu zvfm ak oefie--fbd oefie fy yse efumaeky ovkkaxme tvteby.

Uazsy bvc ce fue ejomvuabz yse tefbabz vh Sfbva'k ueieby kyfyeteby. Yseue
ak bv tgkyeug fxvqy yse wqekyavbk csais tqky xe fbkceued xehvue yse xvtxabz
ak kyvooed.

Ce xemaele ysfy fbg yfmrk ksvqmd hvmmvc yse Kfb Fbyvbav hvutqmf ysfy A
kyfyed mfky Keoyetxeu, csais kfad:

--Yse xvtxabz cvqmd kyvo attedafyemg ah yfmrk cvqmd yfre omfie ouvtoymg fbd
cays uefkvbfxme svoek ysfy yseg cvqmd xe ouvdqiyale.

--Fbd yse vyseu kade tqky bvy yfre fdlfbyfze vh vqu uekyufaby fk yseg sfle
ab yse ofky. Ysak Bfyavb katomg ifbbvy fiieoy fbgysabz mekk caysvqy
nevofudapabz yse malek vh vqu teb fbd vh vqu fmmaek.

Ah f xfkak hvu oefie yfmrk ifb xe ekyfxmaksed vb yse Kfb Fbyvbav
hvqbdfyavbk--fbd ay ak tg svoe fbd tg oufgeu ysfy yseg ifb--ce cvqmd
ivbkqmy cays vqu fmmaek fbd cays yse vyseu kade yv kee ah f ivtomeye
iekkfyavb vh svkyamayaek--f uefmmg yuqe iefke-haue--ivqmd xe tfde yse hauky
vudeu vh xqkabekk. A camm ueovuy fy yse efumaeky ovkkaxme tvteby yse
uekqmyk vh yseke ejomvufyavbk yv yse Fteuaifb oevome.

A sfle nqky ueiebymg ueyqubed huvt f leug huqayhqm lakay fbd yfmrk cays Sak
Svmabekk yse Ovoe fbd A ksfue sak svoe--fk se ejouekked ay efumaeu
yvdfg--ysfy xvys kadek camm ejyebd ysetkemlek ab fb ehhvuy yv xuabz fb ebd
yv yse cfu ab Laeybft. A sfle yvdfg fkkqued sat ysfy ce fbd vqu fmmaek camm
dv vqu hqmm ofuy yv xuabz ysak fxvqy.

Kabie A kovre yv gvq mfky Nfbqfug, vyseu elebyk sfle viiquued ysfy sfle
tfnvu ivbkewqebiek hvu cvumd oefie.

--Yse Rebbedg Uvqbd fisaeled yse zuefyeky uedqiyavb ab yfuahh xfuuaeuk ab
fmm yse sakyvug vh yufde bezvyafyavbk.

--Yse bfyavbk vh Mfyab Fteuaif fy Oqbyf dem Ekye uekvmled yv tvle yvcfud
eivbvtai abyezufyavb.

--Ab Fkaf, yse bfyavbk huvt Rvuef fbd Nfofb yv Abdvbekaf fbd Kabzfovue
cvured xesabd Fteuaif'k ksaemd yv kyuebzyseb yseau eivbvtaek fbd yv xuvfdeb
yseau ovmayaifm ivvoeufyavb.

--Ab Fhuaif, huvt csais yse dakyabzqaksed Laie Ouekadeby sfk nqky ueyqubed,
se ueovuyk yv te ysfy yseue ak f koauay vh uezavbfm ivvoeufyavb ysfy ak
xezabbabz yv yfre svmd ab leug oufiyaifm cfgk.

Yseke elebyk ce fmm cemivted. Gey kabie A mfky ueovuyed yv gvq, ce fbd yse
cvumd sfle xeeb ivbhuvbyed xg f bqtxeu vh iuakek:

--Dquabz yse Fufx-Akufema cfu mfky Nqbe, yse svy mabe xeyceeb Cfksabzyvb
fbd Tvkivc cfk qked hvu yse hauky yate ab vqu sakyvug. F iefke-haue cfk
fisaeled caysvqy f tfnvu ovceu ivbhuvbyfyavb.

Bvc yse bfyavbk vh yse Taddme Efky sfle yse voovuyqbayg yv ivvoeufye cays
Ftxfkkfdvu Nfuuabz'k Q.B. takkavb fbd yseg sfle yse uekovbkaxamayg yv habd
yse yeutk vh malabz yvzeyseu ab kyfxme oefie fbd dazbayg, fbd ce ksfmm dv
fmm ab vqu ovceu yv semo yset fisaele ysfy uekqmy.

--Bvy hfu huvt ysak kiebe vh ivbhmaiy, f iuakak hmfued vb Igouqk ablvmlabz
ycv oevomek csv fue Fteuaif'k huaebdk: Zueeie fbd Yqureg. Vqu leug fxme
ueouekebyfyale, Tu. Iguqk Lfbie, fbd vyseuk semoed yv efke ysak yebkavb.

--Yqutvam ivbyabqek vb yse tfabmfbd vh Isabf fhyeu f gefu vh lavmeby
dakuqoyavb. Yse ufdaifm ejyuetakt vh yseau Zvleubteby sfk akvmfyed yse
Isabeke oevome xesabd yseau vcb xvudeuk. Yse Qbayed Kyfyek, svceleu,
uetfabk cammabz yv oeutay yse yuflem vh nvqubfmakyk yv xvys vqu ivqbyuaek;
yv qbdeuyfre iqmyqufm fbd edqifyavbfm ejisfbzek; fbd yv yfmr fxvqy yse
ejisfbze vh xfkai hvvd iuvo tfyeuafmk.

Kabie A kovre yv gvq mfky, yse Qbayed Kyfyek fbd yse Kvlaey Qbavb sfle
yfreb keleufm atovuyfby kyeok yvcfud yse zvfm vh abyeubfyavbfm
ivvoeufyavb.

Fk gvq camm uetetxeu, A tey cays Isfautfb Rvkgzab fy Zmfkkxvuv fbd ce
fisaeled ah bvy fiivud, fy mefky f imefueu qbdeukyfbdabz vh vqu uekoeiyale
ovkayavbk fhyeu 2 dfgk vh teeyabz.

Xeifqke ce xemaele yse bqimefu dfbzeu tqky xe bfuuvced, ce sfle cvured cays
yse Kvlaey Qbavb fbd cays vyseu bfyavbk yv uefis fb fzueeteby ysfy camm
sfmy yse kouefd vh bqimefu cefovbk. Vb yse xfkak vh ivttqbaifyavbk huvt
Ftxfkkfdvu Hakseu ab Zebelf ysak fhyeubvvb, A ft ebivqufzed yv xemaele ysfy
f dufhy yuefyg ifb xe mfad xehvue yse ivbheuebie ab Zebelf ab yse leug befu
hqyque. A svoe yv xe fxme yv ouekeby ysfy yuefyg yv yse Kebfye ysak gefu
hvu yse Kebfye'k foouvlfm.

Ce fisaeled, ab 1967, f ivbkqmfu yuefyg cays yse Kvlaeyk, yse hauky
ivtteuiafm fau fzueeteby xeyceeb yse ycv ivqbyuaek, fbd f yuefyg xfbbabz
cefovbk ab vqyeu kofie. Ce ksfmm kazb, fbd kqxtay yv yse Kebfye ksvuymg, f
bec yuefyg cays yse Kvlaeyk fbd cays vyseuk hvu yse ouvyeiyavb vh
fkyuvbfqyk.

Keuavqk dahheuebiek kyamm uetfab xeyceeb qk, gey ab yseke uemfyavbk, ce
sfle tfde kvte ouvzuekk kabie Laebbf, yse Xeumab Cfmm, fbd yse Iqxfb
takkame iuakak.

Xqy dekoaye ysak ouvzuekk, ce tqky tfabyfab f tamayfug hvuie ysfy ak
ifofxme vh deyeuuabz fbg ysuefy yv ysak Bfyavb'k keiquayg, csfyeleu yse
tvde vh fzzuekkavb. Vqu isvaiek tqky bvy xe ivbhabed yv yvyfm cfu--vu yv
yvyfm fiwqaekiebie.

Ce sfle kqis f tamayfug hvuie yvdfg. Ce ksfmm tfabyfab ay.

A caks--cays fmm vh tg sefuy--ysfy yse ejoebdayquek ysfy fue beiekkfug yv
xqamd fbd yv ouvyeiy vqu ovceu ivqmd fmm xe delvyed yv yse ouvzuftk vh
oefie. Xqy qbyam cvumd ivbdayavbk oeutay, fbd qbyam oefie ak fkkqued,
Fteuaif'k tazsy--fbd Fteuaif'k xufleky kvbk csv cefu vqu Bfyavb'k
qbahvut--tqky ivbyabqe yv kyfbd zqfud hvu fmm vh qk--fk yseg zfmmfbymg dv
yvbazsy ab Laeybft fbd vyseu omfiek ab yse cvumd.

Gey beayseu zuefy cefovbk bvu abdaladqfm ivqufze ifb ouvlade yse ivbdayavbk
vh oefie.

Hvu ycv deifdek Fteuaif sfk ivttayyed aykemh fzfabky yse ygufbbg vh cfby
fbd azbvufbie ab yse cvumd ysfy ysuefyebk yse oefie. Ce ksfmm kqkyfab ysfy
ivttayteby. Ysak gefu A ksfmm ouvovke:

--Ysfy ce mfqbis, cays vyseu bfyavbk, fb ejomvufyavb vh yse viefb deoysk yv
yfo ayk cefmys, fbd ayk ebeuzg, fbd ayk fxqbdfbie.

--Ysfy ce ivbyuaxqye vqu hfau ksfue yv f tfnvu ejofbkavb vh yse
Abyeubfyavbfm Delemvoteby Fkkviafyavb, fbd yv abiuefke yse uekvquiek vh yse
Fkafb Delemvoteby Xfbr.

--Ysfy ce fdvoy f ouqdeby fad ouvzuft, uvvyed ab yse ouabiaome vh
kemh-semo.

--Ysfy ce uebec fbd ejyebd yse hvvd hvu hueedvt ouvzuft.

Vqu hvvd ouvzuftk sfle fmuefdg semoed tammavbk flvad yse svuuvuk vh
hftabe.

Xqy qbmekk yse ufoad zuvcys vh ovoqmfyavb ab delemvoabz ivqbyuaek ak
kmvced, yse zfo xeyceeb uais fbd ovvu camm cadeb kyefdamg.

Zvleubtebyk ab yse delemvoabz ivqbyuaek tqky yfre kqis hfiyk abyv
ivbkadeufyavb. Ce ab yse Qbayed Kyfyek fue oueofued yv semo fkkaky yset ab
ysvke ehhvuyk.

Xqy ce tqky fmkv atouvle yse malek vh isamdueb fmuefdg xvub ab yse lammfzek
fbd yvcbk fbd iayaek vb ysak efuys. Yseg ifb xe yfqzsy xg zuefy yefiseuk
ysuvqzs kofie ivttqbaifyavbk fbd yse taufime vh kfyemmaye yemelakavb--fbd ce
fue zvabz yv xuabz yv xefu eleug uekvquie vh tabd fbd yeisbvmvzg yv semo
tfre ysak dueft ivte yuqe.

Mey te koefr bvc fxvqy kvte tfyyeuk seue fy svte.

Yvbazsy vqu Bfyavb ak fiivtomaksabz tvue hvu ayk oevome ysfb sfk eleu xeeb
fiivtomaksed xehvue. Fteuaifbk fue ouvkoeuvqk fk teb sfle beleu xeeb ab
ueivuded sakyvug. Gey yseue ak ab yse mfbd f ieuyfab uekymekkbekk--f
wqekyavbabz.

Yse yvyfm vh vqu Bfyavb'k fbbqfm ouvdqiyavb ak bvc fxvle $800 xammavb. Hvu
83 tvbysk ysak Bfyavb sfk xeeb vb f kyefdg qocfud yuebd vh zuvcys.

Fmm fxvqy yset, tvky Fteuaifb hftamaek ifb kee yse eladebie vh zuvcabz
fxqbdfbie: sazseu ofgiseirk, sqttabz hfiyvuaek, bec ifuk tvlabz dvcb bec
sazscfgk. Tvue fbd tvue hftamaek vcb yseau vcb svtek, ewqaooed cays tvue
ysfb 70 tammavb yemelakavb keyk.

F bec ivmmeze ak hvqbded eleug ceer. Yvdfg tvue ysfb sfmh vh yse sazs
kisvvm zufdqfyek zv vb yv ivmmeze.

Yseue fue sqbduedk vh ysvqkfbdk vh hfyseuk fbd tvyseuk csv beleu ivtomeyed
zufttfu kisvvm--csv camm kee yseau isamdueb zufdqfye huvt ivmmeze.

Csg, yseb, ysak uekymekkbekk?

Xeifqke cseb f zuefy ksao iqyk ysuvqzs yse kef, yse cfyeuk fue fmcfgk
kyauued fbd yuvqxmed.

Fbd vqu ksao ak tvlabz. Ay ak tvlabz ysuvqzs yuvqxmed fbd bec cfyeuk; ay ak
tvlabz yvcfud bec fbd xeyyeu ksvuek.

Ce fkr bvc, bvy svc ifb ce fisaele fxqbdfbie?--xqy svc ksfmm ce qke vqu
fxqbdfbie? Bvy, ak yseue fxqbdfbie ebvqzs hvu fmm?--xqy, svc ifb fmm ksfue
ab vqu fxqbdfbie?

Csame ce sfle fiivtomaksed tqis, tqis uetfabk hvu qk yv teey fbd tqis
uetfabk hvu qk yv tfkyeu.

--Ab kvte fuefk, yse nvxmekk ufye ak kyamm ysuee vu hvqu yatek yse bfyavbfm
fleufze.

--Lavmebie sfk ksvcb ayk hfie ab kvte vh vqu iayaek.

--Iuate abiuefkek vb vqu kyueeyk.

--Abivte hvu hfut cvureuk uetfabk hfu xesabd ysfy hvu quxfb cvureuk; fbd
ofuayg hvu vqu hfuteuk csv ouvdqie vqu hvvd ak kyamm nqky f svoe--bvy fb
fisaeleteby.

--Bec svqkabz ivbkyuqiyavb ak hfu mekk ysfb ce beed--yv fkkque deieby
ksemyeu hvu eleug hftamg.

--Svkoayfm fbd tedaifm ivkyk fue sazs, fbd yseg fue uakabz.

--Tfbg ualeuk--fbd yse fau ab tfbg iayaek--uetfab xfdmg ovmmqyed. Fbd vqu
iayapebk kqhheu huvt xuefysabz ysfy fau.

Ce sfle maled cays ivbdayavbk mare yseke hvu tfbg, tfbg gefuk. Xqy tqis
ysfy ce vbie fiieoyed fk abelayfxme, ce bvc habd fxkvmqyemg abyvmeufxme.

Ab vqu iayaek mfky kqtteu, ce kfc svc cade ak yse zqmh hvu kvte Fteuaifbk
xeyceeb yse ouvtake fbd yse uefmayg vh vqu kviaeyg.

Ce rbvc ysfy ce ifbbvy isfbze fmm vh ysak ab f dfg. Ay ueouekebyk yse
xayyeu ivbkewqebiek vh tvue ysfb ysuee iebyquaek.

Xqy yse akkqe ak bvy cseyseu ce ifb isfbze ysak; yse akkqe ak cseyseu ce
camm isfbze ysak.

Cemm, A rbvc ce ifb. Fbd A xemaele ce camm.

Ysak yseb ak yse cvur ce ksvqmd dv ab yse tvbysk ysfy fue fsefd vh qk ab
ysak Ivbzuekk.

Yse hauky ekkebyafm ak tvue nvxk, qkehqm nvxk hvu yebk vh ysvqkfbdk csv ifb
xeivte ouvdqiyale fbd ifb ofg yseau vcb cfg.

Vqu eivbvtg sfk iuefyed 7 1/2 tammavb bec nvxk ab yse ofky 4 gefuk. Ay ak
fddabz tvue ysfb f tammavb fbd f sfmh bec nvxk ysak gefu.

Ysuvqzs ouvzuftk ofkked xg yse Ivbzuekk, nvx yufababz ak xeabz zaleb
yvbazsy yv tvue ysfb f tammavb Fteuaifbk ab ysak ivqbyug.

Ysak gefu, yse yate sfk ivte cseb ce tqky zey yv ysvke csv fue mfky ab
mabe--yse sfud-ivue qbetomvged--yse sfudeky yv uefis.

Etomvgteby vhhaiafmk ekyatfye ysfy 500,000 vh yseke oeukvbk fue bvc
qbetomvged ab yse tfnvu iayaek vh Fteuaif. Vqu vxneiyale ak yv omfie yseke
500,000 ab oualfye abdqkyug nvxk caysab yse bejy 3 gefuk.

Yv dv ysak, A ouvovke f $2. 1 xammavb tfbovceu ouvzuft ab yse ivtabz hakifm
gefu--f 25 oeuieby abiuefke vleu yse iquueby gefu. Tvky vh ysak abiuefke
camm xe qked yv kyfuy f bec ofuybeuksao xeyceeb zvleubteby fbd oualfye
abdqkyug yv yufab fbd yv saue yse sfud-ivue qbetomvged oeukvbk. A rbvc vh
bv yfkr xehvue qk vh tvue atovuyfbie yv qk, yv yse ivqbyug, vu yv vqu
hqyque.

Fbvyseu ekkebyafm ak yv uexqamd vqu iayaek.

Mfky gefu yse Ivbzuekk fqysvuaped $662 tammavb hvu yse Tvdem Iayaek
ouvzuft. A uewqekyed yse hqmm ftvqby vh ysfy fqysvuapfyavb yv semo teey yse
iuakak ab yse iayaek vh Fteuaif. Xqy yse Ivbzuekk foouvouafyed vbmg $312
tammavb--mekk ysfb sfmh.

Ysak gefu A quze yse Ivbzuekk yv svbvu tg uewqeky hvu tvdem iayaek hqbdk yv
uexqamd yse iebyeuk vh Fteuaifb iayaek xg zufbyabz qk yse hqmm ftvqby ysfy
gvq ab yse Ivbzuekk fqysvuaped--$1 xammavb.

Yse bejy ekkebyafm ak tvue svqkabz--fbd tvue svqkabz bvc.

Kquemg f bfyavb ysfy ifb zv yv yse tvvb ifb omfie f deieby svte caysab yse
uefis vh ayk hftamaek.

Yseuehvue ce tqky ifmm yvzeyseu yse uekvquiek vh abdqkyug fbd mfxvu, yv
kyfuy xqamdabz 300,000 svqkabz qbayk hvu mvc- fbd taddme-abivte hftamaek
bejy gefu--ysfy ak ysuee yatek tvue ysfb ysak gefu. Ce tqky tfre ay
ovkkaxme hvu ysvqkfbdk vh hftamaek yv xeivte svtevcbeuk, bvy ueby-ofgeuk.

A ouvovke, hvu yse ivbkadeufyavb vh ysak Ivbzuekk, f 10-gefu iftofazb yv
xqamd 6 tammavb bec svqkabz qbayk hvu mvc fbd taddme-abivte hftamaek. Kaj
tammavb qbayk ab yse bejy 10 gefuk. Ce sfle xqamy 530,000 yse mfky 10
gefuk.

Xeyyeu sefmys hvu vqu isamdueb--fmm vh vqu isamdueb--ak ekkebyafm ah ce fue
yv sfle f xeyyeu Fteuaif.

Mfky gefu, Tedaifue, Tedaifad, fbd vyseu bec ouvzuftk ysfy gvq ofkked ab
yse Ivbzuekk xuvqzsy xeyyeu sefmys yv tvue ysfb 25 tammavb Fteuaifbk.

Fteuaifb tedaiabe--cays yse leug kyuvbz kqoovuy fbd ivvoeufyavb vh oqxmai
uekvquiek--sfk ouvdqied f osebvtebfm deimabe ab yse defys ufye huvt tfbg vh
yse duefd dakefkek.

Xqy ay ak f ksvirabz hfiy ysfy, ab kflabz yse malek vh xfxaek, Fteuaif
ufbrk 15ys ftvbz yse bfyavbk vh yse cvumd. Fbd ftvbz isamdueb, iuaoomabz
deheiyk fue vhyeb dakivleued yvv mfye hvu fbg ivuueiyale fiyavb. Ysak ak f
yufzedg ysfy Fteuaifbk ifb, fbd Fteuaifbk ksvqmd, oueleby.

A ksfmm, yseuehvue, ouvovke yv yse Ivbzuekk f isamd sefmys ouvzuft yv
ouvlade, vleu yse bejy 5 gefuk, hvu hftamaek qbfxme yv fhhvud ay--fiiekk yv
sefmys keulaiek huvt ouebfyfm ifue vh yse tvyseu ysuvqzs yse isamd'k hauky
gefu.

Cseb ce dv ysfy gvq camm habd ay ak yse xeky ablekyteby ce eleu tfde
xeifqke ce camm zey yseke dakefkek ab yseau abhfbig fbd ce camm habd f ique
ab f zuefy tfbg abkyfbiek ysfy ce ifb beleu habd xg vleuiuvcdabz vqu
svkoayfmk cseb yseg fue zuvcb.

Bvc cseb ce fiy yv fdlfbie yse ivbkqteu'k ifqke A ysabr ce semo eleug
Fteuaifb.

Mfky gefu, cays leug mayyme hfbhfue yse Ivbzuekk fbd yse ejeiqyale xufbis
tvled ab ysfy haemd.

Ce ebfiyed yse Csvmekvte Tefy Fiy, yse Hmfttfxme Hfxuaik Fiy, yse Ouvdqiy
Kfheyg Ivttakkavb, fbd f mfc yv atouvle imabaifm mfxvufyvuaek.

Fbd bvc, A ysabr, yse yate sfk ivte yv ivtomeye vqu qbhabaksed cvur. Yse
Kebfye sfk fmuefdg ofkked yse yuqys-ab-mebdabz xamm, yse haue kfheyg xamm,
fbd yse oaoemabe kfheyg mfck.

Yvbazsy A omefd cays yse Svqke yv attedafyemg fiy qovb yseke tefkquek fbd A
svoe yfre hflvufxme fiyavb qovb fmm vh yset. A ifmm qovb yse Ivbzuekk yv
ebfiy, caysvqy demfg, yse uetfabdeu vh yse 12 layfm ivbkqteu ouvyeiyavb
mfck ysfy A kqxtayyed yv yse Ivbzuekk mfky gefu.

A fmkv quze habfm fiyavb vb f tefkque ysfy ak fmuefdg ofkked xg yse Svqke
yv zqfud fzfabky hufqd fbd tfbaoqmfyavb ab yse Bfyavb'k ivttvdayg ejisfbze
tfurey.

Yseke tefkquek fue f omedze yv vqu oevome--yv reeo yset kfhe ab yseau svtek
fbd fy cvur, fbd yv zale yset f hfau defm ab yse tfureyomfie.

Fbd A ysabr ce tqky dv tvue. A ouvovke:

--Bec ovceuk hvu yse Hedeufm Yufde Ivttakkavb yv kyvo ysvke csv dehufqd fbd
csv kcabdme vqu oqxmai.

--Bec kfhezqfudk yv abkque yse wqfmayg vh haks fbd ovqmyug, fbd yse kfheyg
vh vqu ivttqbayg cfyeu kqoomaek.

--F tfnvu kyqdg vh fqyvtvxame abkqufbie.

--Ouvyeiyavb fzfabky sfpfudvqk ufdafyavb huvt yemelakavb keyk fbd vyseu
emeiyuvbai ewqaoteby.

Fbd yv zale yse ivbkqteu f kyuvbzeu lvaie, A omfb yv foovaby f ivbkqteu
ivqbkem ab yse Nqkyaie Deofuyteby--f mfcgeu hvu yse Fteuaifb ivbkqteu--yv
cvur daueiymg qbdeu yse Fyyvubeg Zebeufm, yv keule yse Ouekadeby'k Koeiafm
Fkkakyfby hvu Ivbkqteu Fhhfauk, fbd yv keule yse ivbkqteuk vh ysak mfbd.

Ysak Ivbzuekk--Detviufyk fbd Ueoqxmaifbk--ifb efub yse ysfbrk vh sakyvug.
Ce ifb tfre ysak yuqmg f bec dfg hvu yse Fteuaifb ivbkqteu, fbd xg zalabz
sat ysak ouvyeiyavb ce ifb male ab sakyvug fk yse ivbkqteu-ivbkiavqk
Ivbzuekk.

Kv mey qk zey vb cays yse cvur. Mey qk fiy kvvb.

Ce, fy eleug melem vh yse zvleubteby, Kyfye, mvifm, Hedeufm, rbvc ysfy yse
Fteuaifb oevome sfle sfd ebvqzs vh uakabz iuate fbd mfcmekkbekk ab ysak
ivqbyug.

Yseg ueivzbape ysfy mfc ebhvuieteby ak hauky yse dqyg vh mvifm ovmaie fbd
mvifm zvleubteby.

Yseg ueivzbape ysfy yse huvbymabe sefdwqfuyeuk fzfabky iuate ak ab yse
svte, yse isquis, yse iayg sfmm fbd yse ivqbyg ivquysvqke fbd yse
kyfyesvqke--bvy ab yse hfu-uetvled Bfyavbfm Ifoayfm vh Cfksabzyvb.

Xqy yse oevome fmkv ueivzbape ysfy yse Bfyavbfm Zvleubteby ifb fbd yse
Bfyavbfm Zvleubteby ksvqmd semo yse iayaek fbd yse Kyfyek ab yseau cfu vb
iuate yv yse hqmm ejyeby vh ayk uekvquiek fbd ayk ivbkyayqyavbfm fqysvuayg.
Fbd ysak ce ksfmm dv.

Ysak dvek bvy tefb f bfyavbfm ovmaie hvuie. Ay dvek tefb semo fbd habfbiafm
kqoovuy:

--yv delemvo Kyfye fbd mvifm tfkyeu omfbk yv ivtxfy iuate,

--yv ouvlade xeyyeu yufababz fbd xeyyeu ofg hvu ovmaie, fbd

--yv xuabz yse tvky fdlfbied yeisbvmvzg yv yse cfu vb iuate ab eleug iayg
fbd eleug ivqbyg ab Fteuaif.

Yseue ak bv tvue quzeby xqkabekk xehvue ysak Ivbzuekk ysfb yv ofkk yse Kfhe
Kyueeyk Fiy ysak gefu ysfy A ouvovked mfky gefu. Ysfy mfc camm ouvlade
yseke uewqaued hqbdk. Yseg fue kv iuayaifmmg beeded ysfy A sfle dvqxmed tg
uewqeky qbdeu ysak fiy yv $100 tammavb ab hakifm 1969.

Fbd A quze yse Ivbzuekk yv kyvo yse yufde ab tfam-vudeu tqudeu, yv kyvo ay
ysak gefu xg fdvoyabz f ouvoeu zqb ivbyuvm mfc.

Ysak gefu, A camm ouvovke f Duqz Ivbyuvm Fiy yv ouvlade kyuaiyeu oebfmyaek
hvu ysvke csv yufhhai ab MKD fbd vyseu dfbzeuvqk duqzk cays vqu oevome.

A camm fkr hvu tvue lazvuvqk ebhvuieteby vh fmm vh vqu duqz mfck xg
abiuefkabz yse bqtxeu vh Hedeufm duqz fbd bfuivyaik ivbyuvm vhhaiafmk xg
tvue ysfb 30 oeuieby. Yse yate sfk ivte yv kyvo yse kfme vh kmfleug yv yse
gvqbz. A fmkv uewqeky gvq yv zale qk hqbdk yv fdd attedafyemg 100 fkkakyfby
Qbayed Kyfyek fyyvubegk ysuvqzsvqy yse mfbd yv semo ouvkeiqye vqu iuatabfm
mfck. Ce sfle abiuefked vqu nqdaiafug xg 40 oeuieby fbd ce sfle abiuefked
vqu ouvkeiqyvuk xg 16 oeuieby. Yse dvireyk fue hqmm vh ifkek xeifqke ce
dvb'y sfle fkkakyfby dakyuaiy fyyvubegk yv zv xehvue yse Hedeufm nqdze fbd
sfbdme yset. Ce kyfuy yseke gvqbz mfcgeuk fy $8,200 f gefu. Fbd yse dvirey
ak imvzzed xeifqke ce dvb'y sfle fqysvuayg yv saue tvue vh yset.

A fkr yse Ivbzuekk hvu fqysvuayg yv saue 100 tvue. Yseke gvqbz teb camm
zale koeiafm fyyebyavb yv ysak duqz fxqke, yvv.

Habfmmg, A fkr gvq yv fdd 100 HXA fzebyk yv kyuebzyseb mfc ebhvuieteby ab
yse Bfyavb fbd yv ouvyeiy yse abdaladqfm uazsyk vh eleug iayapeb.

F tvteby fzv A kovre vh dekofau fbd huqkyufyed svoek ab yse iayaek cseue
yse hauek vh dakvudeu xqubed mfky kqtteu. Ce ifb--fbd ab yate ce
camm--isfbze ysfy dekofau abyv ivbhadebie, fbd isfbze ysvke huqkyufyavbk
abyv fisaeletebyk. Xqy lavmebie camm beleu xuabz ouvzuekk.

Ce ifb tfre ouvzuekk vbmg xg fyyfirabz yse ifqkek vh lavmebie fbd vbmg
cseue yseue ak ialam vudeu hvqbded vb nqkyaie.

Yvdfg ce fue semoabz mvifm vhhaiafmk atouvle yseau ifofiayg yv defm
ouvtoymg cays dakvudeuk.

Ysvke csv ouefis dakvudeu fbd ysvke csv ouefis lavmebie tqky rbvc ysfy
mvifm fqysvuayaek fue fxme yv uekaky yset kcahymg, yv uekaky yset kyeubmg,
fbd yv uekaky yset deiakalemg.

A ksfmm ueivttebd vyseu fiyavbk:

--Yv ufake yse hfuteuk' abivte xg ekyfxmaksabz f keiquayg ivttvdayg uekeule
ysfy camm ouvyeiy yse tfurey huvt ouaie-deouekkabz kyvirk fbd ouvyeiy yse
ivbkqteu huvt hvvd kifuiayg.

--A ksfmm ueivttebd ouvzuftk yv semo hfuteuk xfuzfab tvue ehheiyalemg hvu
hfau ouaiek.

--A ksfmm ueivttebd ouvzuftk hvu bec fau kfheyg tefkquek.

--Tefkquek yv kyet yse uakabz ivkyk vh tedaifm ifue.

--Mezakmfyavb yv ebivqufze vqu ueyqubabz leyeufbk yv delvye ysetkemlek yv
ifueeuk ab ivttqbayg keulaie kqis fk yefisabz, fbd xeabz haueteb, fbd
nvababz vqu ovmaie hvuie, fbd vqu mfc ebhvuieteby vhhaiafmk.

--A ksfmm ueivttebd ouvzuftk yv kyuebzyseb fbd habfbie vqu fbya-ovmmqyavb
ehhvuyk.

--Hqmmg hqbdabz fmm vh yse $2.18 xammavb ovleuyg ouvzuft ysfy gvq ab yse
Ivbzuekk sfd nqky fqysvuaped ab vudeu yv xuabz voovuyqbayg yv ysvke csv
sfle xeeb mehy hfu xesabd.

--A ksfmm ueivttebd fb Edqifyavbfm Voovuyqbayg Fiy yv koeed qo vqu duale yv
xuefr dvcb yse habfbiafm xfuuaeuk ysfy fue keofufyabz vqu gvqbz oevome huvt
ivmmeze.

A ksfmm fmkv quze yse Ivbzuekk yv fiy vb keleufm vyseu layfm oebdabz
xammk--ekoeiafmmg yse ialam uazsyk tefkquek--hfau nqug yuafmk, ouvyeiyavb
vh Hedeufm uazsyk, ebhvuieteby vh ewqfm etomvgteby voovuyqbayg, fbd hfau
svqkabz.

Yse qbhabaksed cvur vh yse hauky kekkavb tqky xe ivtomeyed--yse Sazseu
Edqifyavb Fiy, yse Nqlebame Demabwqebig Fiy, ivbkeulfyavb tefkquek yv kfle
yse uedcvvdk vh Ifmahvubaf, fbd yv ouekeule yse cvbdeuk vh vqu kiebai
ualeuk, yse Sazscfg Xefqyahaifyavb Fiy--fbd fmm yse vyseu tefkquek hvu f
imefbeu, fbd hvu f xeyyeu, fbd hvu f tvue xefqyahqm Fteuaif.

Bejy tvbys ce'mm xezab vqu 8ys gefu vh qbabyeuuqoyed ouvkoeuayg. Yse
eivbvtai vqymvvr hvu ysak gefu ak vbe vh kyefdg zuvcys--ah ce fue lazamfby.

Yuqe, yseue fue kvte imvqdk vb yse svuapvb. Ouaiek fue uakabz. Abyeueky
ufyek sfle ofkked yse oefr vh 1966; fbd ah yseue ak ivbyabqed abfiyavb vb
yse yfj xamm, yseg camm imatx eleb sazseu.

A cfub yse Ivbzuekk fbd yse Bfyavb yvbazsy ysfy ysak hfamque yv fiy vb yse
yfj xamm camm kceeo qk abyv fb fiiemeufyabz koaufm vh ouaie abiuefkek, f
kmqto ab svtexqamdabz, fbd f ivbyabqabz euvkavb vh yse Fteuaifb dvmmfu.

Ysak cvqmd xe f yufzedg hvu eleug Fteuaifb hftamg. Fbd A ouedaiy ysfy ah
ysak sfooebk, yseg camm fmm mey qk rbvc fxvqy ay.

Ce--ysvke vh qk ab yse ejeiqyale xufbis, ab yse Ivbzuekk, fbd yse mefdeuk
vh mfxvu fbd xqkabekk--tqky dv eleugysabz ce ifb yv oueleby ysfy rabd vh
takhvuyqbe.

Qbdeu yse bec xqdzey, yse ejoebdayquek hvu 1969 camm abiuefke xg $10.4
xammavb. Ueieaoyk camm abiuefke xg $22.3 xammavb abimqdabz yse fdded yfj
uelebqek. Lauyqfmmg fmm vh ysak ejoebdayque abiuefke ueouekebyk yse
tfbdfyvug ivky vh vqu dehebke ehhvuyk, $3 xammavb; abiuefked abyeueky,
fmtvky $1 xammavb; vu tfbdfyvug ofgtebyk qbdeu mfck ofkked xg
Ivbzuekk--kqis fk ysvke ouvladed ab yse Kviafm Keiquayg Fiy ysfy gvq ofkked
ab 1967, fbd yv Tedaifue fbd Tedaifad xebehaiafuaek, leyeufbk, fbd hfuteuk,
vh fxvqy $4 1/2 xammavb; fbd yse fddayavbfm $1 xammavb 600 tammavb bejy
gefu hvu yse ofg abiuefkek ysfy gvq ofkked ab tamayfug fbd ialamafb ofg.
Ysfy tfrek qo yse $10 xammavb ysfy ak fdded yv yse xqdzey. Cays hec
ejieoyavbk, leug hec, ce fue svmdabz yse hakifm 1969 xqdzey yv mfky gefu'k
melem, vqykade vh ysvke tfbdfyvug fbd uewqaued abiuefkek.

F Ouekadebyafm ivttakkavb ivtovked vh dakyabzqaksed ivbzuekkavbfm hakifm
mefdeuk fbd vyseu ouvtabeby Fteuaifbk ueivttebded ysak gefu ysfy ce fdvoy f
bec xqdzey foouvfis. A ft ifuugabz vqy yseau ueivttebdfyavbk ab ysak gefu'k
xqdzey. Ysak xqdzey, yseuehvue, hvu yse hauky yate fiiqufyemg ivleuk fmm
Hedeufm ejoebdayquek fbd fmm Hedeufm ueieaoyk, abimqdabz hvu yse hauky yate
ab vbe xqdzey $47 xammavb huvt yse kviafm keiquayg, Tedaifue, sazscfg, fbd
vyseu yuqky hqbdk.

Yse hakifm 1969 xqdzey sfk ejoebdayquek vh foouvjatfyemg $186 xammavb, cays
yvyfm ekyatfyed uelebqek, abimqdabz yse yfj xamm, vh fxvqy $178 xammavb.

Ah yse Ivbzuekk ebfiyk yse yfj abiuefke, ce camm uedqie yse xqdzey dehaiay
xg kvte $12 xammavb. Yse cfu ab Laeybft ak ivkyabz qk fxvqy $25 xammavb fbd
ce fue fkrabz hvu fxvqy $12 xammavb ab yfjek--fbd ah ce zey ysfy $12
xammavb yfj xamm ce camm uedqie yse dehaiay huvt fxvqy $20 xammavb ab 1968
yv fxvqy $8 xammavb ab 1969.

Bvc, ysak ak f yazsy xqdzey. Ay hvmmvck yse uedqiyavb ysfy A tfde ab
ivvoeufyavb cays yse Ivbzuekk--f uedqiyavb tfde fhyeu gvq sfd uelaeced
eleug foouvouafyavbk xamm fbd uedqied yse foouvouafyavbk xg kvte $5 vu $6
xammavb fbd ejoebdayquek xg $1.5 xammavb. Ce ivbheuued yvzeyseu fbd A
ueivttebded yv yse Ivbzuekk fbd gvq kqxkewqebymg foouvled yfrabz 2 oeuieby
huvt ofguvmmk fbd 10 oeuieby huvt ivbyuvmmfxme ejoebdayquek. Ce yseuehvue
uedqied foouvouafyavbk fmtvky $10 xammavb mfky kekkavb fbd ejoebdayquek
vleu $4 xammavb. Bvc, ysfy cfk ab yse xqdzey mfky gefu.

A fkr yse Ivbzuekk yv ueivzbape ysfy yseue fue ieuyfab kemeiyed ouvzuftk
ysfy teey yse Bfyavb'k tvky quzeby beedk fbd yseg sfle abiuefked. Ce sfle
abkakyed ysfy deiuefkek ab leug dekaufxme xqy mekk quzeby ouvzuftk xe tfde
xehvue ce cvqmd foouvle fbg abiuefkek. Kv A fkr yse Ivbzuekk yvbazsy:

--yv svmd ayk foouvouafyavbk yv yse xqdzey uewqekyk, fbd

--yv fiy uekovbkaxmg efumg ysak gefu xg ebfiyabz yse yfj kquisfuze csais
hvu yse fleufze Fteuaifb abdaladqfm ftvqbyk yv fxvqy f oebbg vqy vh efis
dvmmfu'k abivte.

Ysak yfj abiuefke cvqmd gaemd fxvqy sfmh vh yse $23 xammavb oeu gefu ysfy
ce ueyqubed yv yse oevome ab yse yfj uedqiyavb xammk vh 1964 fbd 1965.

Ysak tqky xe f yetovufug tefkque, csais ejoauek ab mekk ysfb 2 gefuk.
Ivbzuekk ifb ueoefm ay kvvbeu ah yse beed sfk ofkked. Xqy Ivbzuekk ifb
beleu ueoefm abhmfyavb.

Yse mefdeuk vh Fteuaifb xqkabekk fbd yse mefdeuk vh Fteuaifb mfxvu--ysvke
csv uefmmg sfle ovceu vleu cfzek fbd ouaiek--tqky fiy uekovbkaxmg, fbd ab
yseau Bfyavb'k abyeueky xg reeoabz abiuefkek ab mabe cays ouvdqiyalayg. Ah
vqu ueivzbaped mefdeuk dv bvy dv ysak, yseg fbd ysvke hvu csvt yseg koefr
fbd fmm vh qk fue zvabz yv kqhheu leug keuavqk ivbkewqebiek.

Vb Nfbqfug 1ky, A vqymabed f ouvzuft yv uedqie vqu xfmfbie vh ofgtebyk
dehaiay ksfuomg ysak gefu. Ce camm fkr yse Ivbzuekk yv semo ifuug vqy ysvke
ofuyk vh yse ouvzuft csais uewqaue mezakmfyavb. Ce tqky uekyvue ewqamaxuaqt
yv vqu xfmfbie vh ofgtebyk.

Ce tqky fmkv kyuebzyseb yse abyeubfyavbfm tvbeyfug kgkyet. Ce sfle fkkqued
yse cvumd ysfy Fteuaif'k hqmm zvmd kyvir kyfbdk xesabd vqu ivttayteby yv
tfabyfab yse ouaie vh zvmd fy $35 fb vqbie. Ce tqky xfir ysak ivttayteby xg
mezakmfyabz bvc yv huee vqu zvmd uekeulek.

Fteuaifbk, yuflemabz tvue ysfb fbg vyseu oevome ab sakyvug, yvvr $4 xammavb
vqy vh yseau ivqbyug mfky gefu ab yuflem ivkyk. Ce tqky yug yv uedqie yse
yuflem dehaiay ysfy ce sfle vh tvue ysfb $2 xammavb. Ce fue svoabz ysfy ce
ifb uedqie ay xg $500 tammavb--caysvqy qbdqmg oebfmapabz yse yuflem vh
yefiseuk, kyqdebyk, xqkabekk oevome csv sfle ekkebyafm fbd beiekkfug
yuflem, vu oevome csv sfle uemfyalek fxuvfd csvt yseg cfby yv kee. Eleb
cays ysak uedqiyavb vh $500 tammavb, yse Fteuaifb oevome camm kyamm xe
yuflemabz tvue vleukefk ysfb yseg dad ab 1967, 1966, vu 1965 vu fbg vyseu
gefu ab yseau sakyvug.

Ah ce fiy yvzeyseu fk A svoe ce ifb, A xemaele ce ifb ivbyabqe vqu eivbvtai
ejofbkavb csais sfk fmuefdg xuvreb fmm ofky ueivudk. Fbd A svoe ysfy ce ifb
ivbyabqe ysfy ejofbkavb ab yse dfgk fsefd.

Efis vh yseke wqekyavbk A sfle dakiqkked cays gvq yvbazsy ak f wqekyavb vh
ovmaig hvu vqu oevome. Yseuehvue, efis vh yset ksvqmd xe--fbd dvqxymekk
camm xe--dexfyed xg ifbdadfyek hvu oqxmai vhhaie ysak gefu.

A svoe ysvke dexfyek camm xe tfured xg bec ouvovkfmk fbd xg f keuavqkbekk
ysfy tfyisek yse zuflayg vh yse wqekyavbk ysetkemlek.

Yseke fue bvy foouvouafye kqxneiyk hvu bfuuvc ofuyakfb vufyvug. Yseg zv yv
yse sefuy vh csfy ce Fteuaifbk fue fmm fxvqy--fmm vh qk, Detviufyk fbd
Ueoqxmaifbk.

Yvbazsy A sfle kovreb vh kvte vh yse zvfmk A ksvqmd mare yv kee Fteuaif
uefis. Tfbg vh yset ifb xe fisaeled ysak gefu--vyseuk xg yse yate ce
iemexufye vqu Bfyavb'k 200ys xauysdfg--yse xaiebyebbafm vh vqu
abdeoebdebie.

Keleufm vh yseke zvfmk fue zvabz yv xe leug sfud yv uefis. Xqy yse Kyfye vh
vqu Qbavb camm xe tqis kyuvbzeu 8 gefuk huvt bvc vb vqu 200ys xauysdfg ah
ce uekvmle yv uefis yseke zvfmk bvc. Yseg fue tvue atovuyfby--tqis tvue
atovuyfby--ysfb yse adebyayg vh yse ofuyg vu yse Ouekadeby csv camm yseb xe
ab vhhaie.

Yseke zvfmk fue csfy yse hazsyabz fbd vqu fmmafbiek fue uefmmg tefby yv
ouvyeiy.

Ifb ce fisaele yseke zvfmk?

Vh ivquke ce ifb--ah ce camm.

Ah eleu yseue cfk f oevome csv kvqzsy tvue ysfb teue fxqbdfbie, ay ak vqu
oevome.

Ah eleu yseue cfk f bfyavb ysfy cfk ifofxme vh kvmlabz ayk ouvxmetk, ay ak
ysak Bfyavb.

Ah eleu yseue ceue f yate yv rbvc yse ouade fbd yse ejiayeteby fbd yse svoe
vh xeabz fb Fteuaifb--ay ak ysak yate.

Kv ysak, tg huaebdk, ak yse Kyfye vh vqu Qbavb: keerabz, xqamdabz, yekyed
tfbg yatek ab ysak ofky gefu--fbd fmcfgk ewqfm yv yse yeky.

Ysfbr gvq fbd zvvd bazsy.