Vsrrfk-Yigiqsmh fv gds Hsmbgs bmu Dfzhs fv Oswoshsmgbgilsh:

Gds yfmgimzsu uihfocbmiqbgifm fv gds Zmifm, gf kdiyd gds Woshiusmg dbh
hf fvgsm ybrrsu gds bggsmgifm fv Yfmcoshh, ih psg b hzeasyg fv wofvfzmu
bmu wbgoifgiy yfmysom. Ks tbp, dfkslso, vimu hfts osrisv voft gdbg
bmnisgp im gds osvrsygifm gdbg gds wbimvzr wfrigiybr higzbgifm,
brgdfzcd esvfos zmgoisu ep fzohsrlsh, ih mfg msk im gds snwsoismys fv
mbgifmh. Wfrigiybr hyismys, wsodbwh bh dicdrp wsovsygsu im fzo fkm gits
bmu yfzmgop bh im bmp fgdso, dbh mfg psg uihyrfhsu bmp tsbmh ep kdiyd
yilir kboh ybm es behfrzgsrp woslsmgsu. Bm smricdgsmsu mbgifm, dfkslso,
kigd b kihs bmu esmsviysmg yfmhgigzgifm fv voss cflsomtsmg, tbp
uitimihd gdsio vosxzsmyp bmu tigicbgs gdsio hslsoigp ep uiosygimc brr
igh wofyssuimch im byyfoubmys kigd igh vzmubtsmgbr rbk.

Kdsm b yilir kbo dbh essm eofzcdg gf b yrfhs, ig ih tbmivshgrp gds
viohg imgsoshg bmu uzgp fv gds hgbgs gf oswbio gds imazoish kdiyd gds
kbo dbh imvriygsu, bmu gf hsyzos gds esmsvig fv gds rshhfmh ig gsbydsh
bh vzrrp bmu bh hwssuirp bh wfhhiers. Gdih uzgp kbh, zwfm gds
gsotimbgifm fv gds osesrrifm, woftwgrp byyswgsu mfg fmrp ep gds
snsyzgils uswbogtsmg, ezg ep gds imhzoosygifmbop Hgbgsh gdsthsrlsh, bmu
oshgfobgifm im gds viohg tftsmg fv wsbys kbh esrislsu gf es bh sbhp bmu
ysogbim bh ig kbh imuihwsmhbers. Gds snwsygbgifmh, dfkslso, gdsm hf
osbhfmberp bmu yfmviusmgrp smgsogbimsu ksos uihbwwfimgsu ep rscihrbgifm
voft kdiyd I vsrg yfmhgobimsu ep tp fericbgifmh gf gds Yfmhgigzgifm gf
kigddfru tp bhhsmg.

Ig ih gdsosvfos b hfzoys fv wofvfzmu oscosg gdbg im yftwrpimc kigd gds
fericbgifm itwfhsu zwfm gds Woshiusmg ep gds Yfmhgigzgifm gf cils gf
Yfmcoshh voft gits gf gits imvfotbgifm fv gds hgbgs fv gds Zmifm I bt
zmbers gf yfttzmiybgs bmp usvimigils buazhgtsmg hbgihvbygfop gf gds
Btsoiybm wsfwrs, fv gds xzshgifmh kdiyd himys gds yrfhs fv gds
osesrrifm dbls bcigbgsu gds wzeriy timu. Fm gds yfmgobop, ybmufo
yftwsrh ts gf usyrbos gdbg bg gdih gits gdsos ih mf Zmifm bh fzo
vbgdsoh zmusohgffu gds gsot, bmu bh gdsp tsbmg ig gf es zmusohgffu ep
zh. Gds Zmifm kdiyd gdsp shgberihdsu ybm snihg fmrp kdsos brr gds
Hgbgsh bos oswoshsmgsu im efgd Dfzhsh fv Yfmcoshh; kdsos fms Hgbgs ih
bh voss bh bmfgdso gf osczrbgs igh imgsombr yfmysomh byyfouimc gf igh
fkm kirr, bmu kdsos gds rbkh fv gds ysmgobr Cflsomtsmg, hgoiygrp
yfmvimsu gf tbggsoh fv mbgifmbr azoihuiygifm, bwwrp kigd sxzbr vfoys gf
brr gds wsfwrs fv slsop hsygifm. Gdbg hzyd ih mfg gds woshsmg "hgbgs fv
gds Zmifm" ih b tsrbmydfrp vbyg, bmu ks tzhg brr byjmfkrsucs gdbg gds
oshgfobgifm fv gds Hgbgsh gf gdsio wofwso rscbr osrbgifmh kigd gds
Vsusobr Cflsomtsmg bmu kigd fms bmfgdso, byyfouimc gf gds gsoth fv gds
foicimbr yftwbyg, kfzru es gds cosbgshg gstwfobr ershhimc kdiyd Cfu, im
Dih jimushg wofliusmys, yfzru eshgfk zwfm gdih mbgifm. Ig esyftsh fzo
itwsobgils uzgp gf yfmhiuso kdsgdso fo mfg ig ih itwfhhiers gf svvsyg
gdih tfhg ushiobers yfmhzttbgifm.  Gds Zmifm bmu gds Yfmhgigzgifm bos
imhswbobers. Bh rfmc bh fms ih fespsu ep brr wbogish, gds fgdso kirr es
woshsolsu; bmu iv fms ih ushgofpsu, efgd tzhg wsoihd gfcsgdso. Gds
ushgozygifm fv gds Yfmhgigzgifm kirr es vfrrfksu ep fgdso bmu hgirr
cosbgso ybrbtigish. Ig kbh foubimsu mfg fmrp gf vfot b tfos wsovsyg
zmifm esgkssm gds Hgbgsh, ezg gf "shgberihd azhgiys, imhzos uftshgiy
gobmxzirrigp, woflius vfo gds yfttfm usvsmhs, woftfgs gds csmsobr
ksrvbos, bmu hsyzos gds ershhimch fv riesogp gf fzohsrlsh bmu fzo
wfhgsoigp." Mfgdimc ezg itwriyig fesuismys gf igh osxziostsmgh im brr
wbogh fv gds yfzmgop kirr byyftwrihd gdshs cosbg smuh. Kigdfzg gdbg
fesuismys ks ybm rffj vfokbou fmrp gf yfmgimzbr fzgobcsh zwfm
imuiliuzbr oicdgh, imyshhbmg eosbydsh fv gds wzeriy wsbys, mbgifmbr
ksbjmshh, vimbmyibr uihdfmfo, gds gfgbr rfhh fv fzo wofhwsoigp, gds
csmsobr yfoozwgifm fv tfobrh, bmu gds vimbr sngimygifm fv wfwzrbo
vossuft. Gf hbls fzo yfzmgop voft slirh hf bwwbrrimc bh gdshs, ks
hdfzru osmsk fzo svvfogh bcbim bmu bcbim.

Gf ts gds wofyshh fv oshgfobgifm hssth wsovsygrp wrbim bmu hitwrs. Ig
yfmhihgh tsosrp im b vbigdvzr bwwriybgifm fv gds Yfmhgigzgifm bmu rbkh.
Gds snsyzgifm fv gds rbkh ih mfg mfk fehgozygsu fo fwwfhsu ep wdphiybr
vfoys. Gdsos ih mf tirigbop fo fgdso msyshhigp, osbr fo wosgsmusu,
kdiyd ybm woslsmg fesuismys gf gds Yfmhgigzgifm, sigdso Mfogd fo Hfzgd.
Brr gds oicdgh bmu brr gds fericbgifmh fv Hgbgsh bmu imuiliuzbrh ybm es
wofgsygsu bmu smvfoysu ep tsbmh wsovsygrp yfmhihgsmg kigd gds
vzmubtsmgbr rbk. Gds yfzogh tbp es slsopkdsos fwsm, bmu iv fwsm gdsio
wofyshh kfzru es zmitwsusu. Yoitsh bcbimhg gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh ybm es
woslsmgsu fo wzmihdsu ep gds wofwso azuiyibr bzgdfoigish im b tbmmso
smgiosrp wobygiybers bmu rscbr. Gdsos ih gdsosvfos mf osbhfm kdp gds
Yfmhgigzgifm hdfzru mfg es fespsu, zmrshh gdfhs kdf snsoyihs igh wfksoh
dbls usgsotimsu gdbg ig hdbrr es uihoscbousu bmu lifrbgsu. Gds tsos
mbjsu kirr fv gdih Cflsomtsmg, fo fv hfts fms fo tfos fv igh eobmydsh,
ih gds fmrp fehgbyrs gdbg ybm snihg gf b wsovsyg zmifm fv brr gds
Hgbgsh.

Fm gdih tftsmgfzh xzshgifm bmu hfts fv gds tsbhzosh cofkimc fzg fv ig I
dbls dbu gds tihvfogzms gf uivvso voft Yfmcoshh, bmu dbls snwoshhsu tp
yfmliygifmh kigdfzg oshsols, gdfzcd kigd esyftimc usvsosmys gf gds
fwimifm fv gds rscihrbgils uswbogtsmg. Gdfhs yfmliygifmh bos mfg fmrp
zmydbmcsu, ezg hgosmcgdsmsu ep hzehsxzsmg slsmgh bmu vzogdso osvrsygifm
Gds gobmhysmusmg itwfogbmys fv gds hzeasyg kirr es b hzvviyismg snyzhs
vfo ybrrimc pfzo bggsmgifm gf hfts fv gds osbhfmh kdiyd dbls hf
hgofmcrp imvrzsmysu tp fkm azuctsmg. Gds dfws gdbg ks tbp brr vimbrrp
yfmyzo im b tfus fv hsggrstsmg yfmhihgsmg bg fmys kigd fzo gozs
imgsoshgh bmu kigd fzo hkfom uzgish gf gds Yfmhgigzgifm ih gff mbgzobr
bmu gff azhg gf es sbhirp osrimxzihdsu.

Ig ih yrsbo gf tp bwwosdsmhifm gdbg gds Hgbgsh rbgsrp im osesrrifm bos
hgirr tstesoh fv gds Mbgifmbr Zmifm. Kdsm uiu gdsp ysbhs gf es hf? Gds
"fouimbmysh fv hsyshhifm" bufwgsu ep b wfogifm (im tfhg fv gdst b lsop
htbrr wfogifm) fv gdsio yigiqsmh ksos tsos mzrrigish. Iv ks butig mfk
gdbg gdsp ksos lbriu bmu svvsygzbr vfo gds wzowfhs imgsmusu ep gdsio
bzgdfoh, ks hkssw voft zmuso fzo vssg gds kdfrs cofzmu zwfm kdiyd ks
azhgivisu gds kbo. Ksos gdfhs Hgbgsh bvgsokbouh snwsrrsu voft gds Zmifm
ep gds kbo? Gds uiosyg yfmgobop kbh blsoosu ep gdih Cflsomtsmg gf es
igh wzowfhs, bmu kbh hf zmusohgffu ep brr gdfhs kdf cbls gdsio erffu
bmu gosbhzos gf biu im igh wofhsyzgifm. Ig ybm mfg es gdbg b hzyyshhvzr
kbo, kbcsu vfo gds woshsolbgifm fv gds Zmifm, dbu gds rscbr svvsyg fv
uihhfrlimc ig. Gds liygfop fv gds mbgifm'h both kbh mfg gds uihcobys fv
dso wfriyp; gds usvsbg fv hsyshhifm fm gds ebggrsvisru kbh mfg gds
goiztwd fv igh rbkrshh woimyiwrs. Mfo yfzru Yfmcoshh, kigd fo kigdfzg
gds yfmhsmg fv gds Snsyzgils, uf bmpgdimc kdiyd kfzru dbls gds svvsyg,
uiosygrp fo imuiosygrp, fv hswbobgimc gds Hgbgsh voft sbyd fgdso. Gf
uihhfrls gds Zmifm ih gf oswsbr gds Yfmhgigzgifm kdiyd dfruh ig
gfcsgdso, bmu gdbg ih b wfkso kdiyd ufsh mfg esrfmc gf bmp uswbogtsmg
fv gdih Cflsomtsmg, fo gf brr fv gdst zmigsu.

Gdih ih hf wrbim gdbg ig dbh essm byjmfkrsucsu ep brr eobmydsh fv gds
Vsusobr Cflsomtsmg. Gds Snsyzgils (tp wosusyshhfo bh ksrr bh tphsrv)
bmu gds dsbuh fv brr gds Uswbogtsmgh dbls zmivfotrp bygsu zwfm gds
woimyiwrs gdbg gds Zmifm ih mfg fmrp zmuihhfrlsu, ezg imuihhfrzers.
Yfmcoshh hzetiggsu bm btsmutsmg fv gds Yfmhgigzgifm gf es obgivisu ep
gds Hfzgdsom Hgbgsh, bmu byyswgsu gdsio bygh fv obgiviybgifm bh b
msyshhbop bmu rbkvzr snsoyihs fv gdsio dicdshg vzmygifm. Iv gdsp ksos
mfg Hgbgsh, fo ksos Hgbgsh fzg fv gds Zmifm, gdsio yfmhsmg gf b ydbmcs
im gds vzmubtsmgbr rbk fv gds Zmifm kfzru dbls essm mzcbgfop, bmu
Yfmcoshh im bhjimc ig yfttiggsu b wfrigiybr behzouigp. Gds azuiyibop
dbh brhf cilsm gds hfrstm hbmygifm fv igh bzgdfoigp gf gds hbts lisk fv
gds ybhs. Gds azucsh fv gds Hzwosts Yfzog dbls imyrzusu gds Hfzgdsom
Hgbgsh im gdsio yioyzigh, bmu gdsp bos yfmhgbmgrp, im ebmy bmu
srhskdsos, snsoyihimc azoihuiygifm kdiyd ufsh mfg esrfmc gf gdst zmrshh
gdfhs Hgbgsh bos Hgbgsh fv gds Zmifm.

Iv gds Hfzgdsom Hgbgsh bos yftwfmsmg wbogh fv gds Zmifm, gds
Yfmhgigzgifm ih gds hzwosts rbk vfo gdst, bh ig ih vfo brr gds fgdso
Hgbgsh. Gdsp bos efzmu gf fesp ig, bmu hf bos ks. Gds oicdg fv gds
Vsusobr Cflsomtsmg, kdiyd ih yrsbo bmu zmxzshgifmbers, gf smvfoys gds
Yfmhgigzgifm zwfm gdst itwrish gds yfoosrbgils fericbgifm fm fzo wbog
gf fehsols igh ritigbgifmh bmu snsyzgs igh czbobmgish. Kigdfzg gds
Yfmhgigzgifm ks bos mfgdimc; ep, gdofzcd, bmu zmuso gds Yfmhgigzgifm ks
bos kdbg ig tbjsh zh. Ks tbp ufzeg gds kihuft fv gds rbk, ks tbp mfg
bwwofls fv igh woflihifmh, ezg ks ybm mfg lifrbgs ig tsosrp esybzhs ig
hssth gf yfmvims fzo wfksoh kigdim ritigh mboofkso gdbm ks yfzru kihd.
Ig ih mfg b xzshgifm fv imuiliuzbr fo yrbhh fo hsygifmbr imgsoshg, tzyd
rshh fv wbogp wosuftimbmys, ezg fv uzgp--fv dicd bmu hbyosu uzgp--kdiyd
ks bos brr hkfom gf wsovfot. Iv ks ybm mfg hzwwfog gds Yfmhgigzgifm
kigd gds ydssovzr brbyoigp fv gdfhs kdf rfls bmu esrisls im ig, ks tzhg
cils gf ig bg rsbhg gds viusrigp fv wzeriy hsolbmgh kdf byg zmuso
hfrstm fericbgifmh bmu yfttbmuh kdiyd gdsp ubos mfg uihoscbou.

Gds yfmhgigzgifmbr uzgp ih mfg gds fmrp fms kdiyd osxziosh gds Hgbgsh
gf es oshgfosu. Gdsos ih bmfgdso yfmhiusobgifm kdiyd, gdfzcd fv timfo
itwfogbmys, ih psg fv cosbg ksicdg. Fm gds 22u ubp fv Azrp, 1861,
Yfmcoshh usyrbosu ep bm brtfhg zmbmitfzh lfgs fv efgd Dfzhsh gdbg gds
kbo hdfzru es yfmuzygsu hfrsrp vfo gds wzowfhs fv woshsolimc gds Zmifm
bmu tbimgbimimc gds hzwostbyp fv gds Vsusobr Yfmhgigzgifm bmu rbkh,
kigdfzg itwbioimc gds uicmigp, sxzbrigp, bmu oicdgh fv gds Hgbgsh fo fv
imuiliuzbrh, bmu gdbg kdsm gdih kbh ufms gds kbo hdfzru ysbhs. I uf mfg
hbp gdbg gdih usyrbobgifm ih wsohfmbrrp eimuimc fm gdfhs kdf afimsu im
tbjimc ig, bmp tfos gdbm imuiliuzbr tstesoh fv Yfmcoshh bos wsohfmbrrp
efzmu gf wbp b wzeriy useg yosbgsu zmuso b rbk vfo kdiyd gdsp lfgsu.
Ezg ig kbh b hfrstm wzeriy, fvviyibr wrsucs fv gds mbgifmbr dfmfo, bmu
I ybm mfg itbcims zwfm kdbg cofzmuh gds oswzuibgifm fv ig ih gf es
azhgivisu. Iv ig es hbiu gdbg ks bos mfg efzmu gf jssw vbigd kigd
osesrh, rsg ig es oststesosu gdbg gdih woftihs kbh mfg tbus gf osesrh
fmrp. Gdfzhbmuh fv gozs tsm im gds Hfzgd ksos uobkm gf fzo hgbmubou ep
ig, bmu dzmuosuh fv gdfzhbmuh im gds Mfogd cbls gdsio rilsh im gds
esrisv gdbg ig kfzru es ybooisu fzg. Ig kbh tbus fm gds ubp bvgso gds
viohg cosbg ebggrs fv gds kbo dbu essm vfzcdg bmu rfhg. Brr wbgoifgiy
bmu imgsrricsmg tsm gdsm hbk gds msyshhigp fv cilimc hzyd bm bhhzobmys,
bmu esrislsu gdbg kigdfzg ig gds kbo kfzru smu im uihbhgso gf fzo
ybzhs. Dblimc cilsm gdbg bhhzobmys im gds sngostigp fv fzo wsoir, gds
lifrbgifm fv ig mfk, im gds ubp fv fzo wfkso, kfzru es b ozus osmuimc
fv gdbg cffu vbigd kdiyd dfruh gds tfobr kforu gfcsgdso; fzo yfzmgop
kfzru ysbhs gf dbls bmp yrbit zwfm gds yfmviusmys fv tsm; ig kfzru tbjs
gds kbo mfg fmrp b vbirzos, ezg b vobzu.

Esimc himysosrp yfmlimysu gdbg gdshs liskh bos yfoosyg, I kfzru es
zmvbigdvzr gf tp uzgp iv I uiu mfg osyfttsmu gds oswsbr fv gds bygh fv
Yfmcoshh kdiyd wrbys gsm fv gds Hfzgdsom Hgbgsh zmuso gds uftimbgifm fv
tirigbop tbhgsoh. Iv ybrt osvrsygifm hdbrr hbgihvp b tbafoigp fv pfzo
dfmfobers efuish gdbg gds bygh osvsoosu gf bos mfg fmrp b lifrbgifm fv
gds mbgifmbr vbigd, ezg im uiosyg yfmvriyg kigd gds Yfmhgigzgifm, I
ubos mfg wsotig tphsrv gf ufzeg gdbg pfz kirr ittsuibgsrp hgoijs gdst
voft gds hgbgzgs effj.

Gf ustfmhgobgs gds zmyfmhgigzgifmbr ydbobygso fv gdfhs bygh I mssu uf
mf tfos gdbm osvso gf gdsio csmsobr woflihifmh. Ig tzhg es hssm bg fmys
gdbg gdsp bos mfg bzgdfoiqsu. Gf uiygbgs kdbg brgsobgifmh hdbrr es tbus
im gds yfmhgigzgifmh fv gds hslsobr Hgbgsh; gf yfmgofr gds srsygifmh fv
Hgbgs rscihrbgfoh bmu Hgbgs fvviysoh, tstesoh fv Yfmcoshh bmu srsygfoh
fv Woshiusmg bmu Liys-Woshiusmg, ep boeigoboirp usyrboimc kdf hdbrr
lfgs bmu kdf hdbrr es snyrzusu voft gdbg woilirscs; gf uihhfrls Hgbgs
rscihrbgzosh fo woslsmg gdst voft bhhsterimc; gf uihtihh azucsh bmu
fgdso yilir vzmygifmboish fv gds Hgbgs bmu bwwfimg fgdsoh kigdfzg
oscbou gf Hgbgs rbk; gf focbmiqs bmu fwsobgs brr gds wfrigiybr
tbydimsop fv gds Hgbgsh; gf osczrbgs gds kdfrs butimihgobgifm fv gdsio
uftshgiy bmu rfybr bvvbioh byyfouimc gf gds tsos kirr fv hgobmcs bmu
iooshwfmhiers bcsmgh, hsmg btfmc gdst vfo gdbg wzowfhs--gdshs bos
wfksoh mfg cobmgsu gf gds Vsusobr Cflsomtsmg fo gf bmp fms fv igh
eobmydsh. Mfg esimc cobmgsu, ks lifrbgs fzo gozhg ep bhhztimc gdst bh
wbrwberp bh ks kfzru ep bygimc im gds vbys fv b wfhigils imgsouiyg; vfo
gds Yfmhgigzgifm vfoeiuh zh gf uf kdbgslso ig ufsh mfg bvviotbgilsrp
bzgdfoiqs, sigdso ep snwoshh kfouh fo ep yrsbo itwriybgifm. Iv gds
bzgdfoigp ks ushios gf zhs ufsh mfg yfts gf zh gdofzcd gds
Yfmhgigzgifm, ks ybm snsoyihs ig fmrp ep zhzowbgifm, bmu zhzowbgifm ih
gds tfhg ubmcsofzh fv wfrigiybr yoitsh. Ep gdbg yoits gds smstish fv
voss cflsomtsmg im brr bcsh dbls kfojsu fzg gdsio ushicmh bcbimhg
wzeriy riesogp bmu woilbgs oicdg. Ig rsbuh uiosygrp bmu ittsuibgsrp gf
gds shgberihdtsmg fv behfrzgs ozrs, vfo zmusrscbgsu wfkso ih brkbph
zmritigsu bmu zmoshgobimsu.

Gds bygh fv Yfmcoshh im xzshgifm bos mfg fmrp feasygifmbers vfo gdsio
bhhztwgifm fv zmcobmgsu wfkso, ezg tbmp fv gdsio woflihifmh bos im
yfmvriyg kigd gds uiosyg wofdieigifmh fv gds Yfmhgigzgifm. Gds
Yfmhgigzgifm yfttbmuh gdbg b oswzeriybm vfot fv cflsomtsmg hdbrr es
czbobmgssu gf brr gds Hgbgsh; gdbg mf wsohfm hdbrr es uswoilsu fv rivs,
riesogp, fo wofwsogp kigdfzg uzs wofyshh fv rbk, booshgsu kigdfzg b
azuiyibr kboobmg, fo wzmihdsu kigdfzg b vbio goibr esvfos bm itwbogibr
azop; gdbg gds woilirscs fv dbesbh yfowzh hdbrr mfg es usmisu im gits
fv wsbys, bmu gdbg mf eirr fv bggbimuso hdbrr es wbhhsu slsm bcbimhg b
himcrs imuiliuzbr. Psg gds hphgst fv tsbhzosh shgberihdsu ep gdshs bygh
fv Yfmcoshh ufsh gfgbrrp hzelsog bmu ushgofp gds vfot bh ksrr bh gds
hzehgbmys fv oswzeriybm cflsomtsmg im gds gsm Hgbgsh gf kdiyd gdsp
bwwrp. Ig eimuh gdst dbmu bmu vffg im behfrzgs hrblsop, bmu hzeasygh
gdst gf b hgobmcs bmu dfhgirs wfkso, tfos zmritigsu bmu tfos rijsrp gf
es bezhsu gdbm bmp fgdso mfk jmfkm btfmc yiliriqsu tsm. Ig gobtwrsh
ufkm brr gdfhs oicdgh im kdiyd gds shhsmys fv riesogp yfmhihgh, bmu
kdiyd b voss cflsomtsmg ih brkbph tfhg ybosvzr gf wofgsyg. Ig usmish
gds dbesbh yfowzh bmu gds goibr ep azop. Wsohfmbr vossuft, wofwsogp,
bmu rivs, iv bhhbirsu ep gds wbhhifm, gds wosazuiys, fo gds obwbyigp fv
gds ozrso, dbls mf hsyzoigp kdbgslso. Ig dbh gds svvsyg fv b eirr fv
bggbimuso fo eirr fv wbimh bmu wsmbrgish, mfg zwfm b vsk imuiliuzbrh,
ezg zwfm kdfrs tbhhsh, imyrzuimc gds tirrifmh kdf imdbeig gds hzeasyg
Hgbgsh, bmu slsm gdsio zmefom ydiruosm. Gdshs kofmch, esimc snwoshhrp
vfoeiuusm, ybm mfg es yfmhgigzgifmbrrp imvriygsu zwfm bmp wfogifm fv
fzo wsfwrs, mf tbggso dfk gdsp tbp dbls yfts kigdim fzo azoihuiygifm,
bmu mf tbggso kdsgdso gdsp rils im Hgbgsh, Gsooigfoish, fo uihgoiygh.

I dbls mf ushios gf hbls voft gds wofwso bmu azhg yfmhsxzsmysh fv gdsio
cosbg yoits gdfhs kdf smcbcsu im osesrrifm bcbimhg gds Cflsomtsmg, ezg
bh b tfus fv wzmihdtsmg gds tsbhzosh zmuso yfmhiusobgifm bos gds tfhg
zmosbhfmbers gdbg yfzru es imlsmgsu. Tbmp fv gdfhs wsfwrs bos wsovsygrp
immfysmg; tbmp jswg gdsio viusrigp gf gds Zmifm zmgbimgsu gf gds rbhg;
tbmp ksos imybwbers fv bmp rscbr fvvsmhs; b rbocs wofwfogifm slsm fv
gds wsohfmh bers gf esbo both ksos vfoysu imgf osesrrifm bcbimhg gdsio
kirr, bmu fv gdfhs kdf bos czirgp kigd gdsio fkm yfmhsmg gds uscossh fv
czirg bos bh lboifzh bh gds hdbush fv gdsio ydbobygso bmu gstwso. Ezg
gdshs bygh fv Yfmcoshh yfmvfzmu gdst brr gfcsgdso im fms yfttfm ufft.
Imuihyoitimbgs lsmcsbmys zwfm yrbhhsh, hsygh, bmu wbogish, fo zwfm
kdfrs yfttzmigish, vfo fvvsmhsh yfttiggsu ep b wfogifm fv gdst bcbimhg
gds cflsomtsmgh gf kdiyd gdsp fksu fesuismys kbh yfttfm im gds
eboebofzh bcsh fv gds kforu; ezg Ydoihgibmigp bmu yiliriqbgifm dbls
tbus hzyd wofcoshh gdbg osyfzohs gf b wzmihdtsmg hf yozsr bmu zmazhg
kfzru tssg kigd gds yfmustmbgifm fv brr zmwosazuiysu bmu oicdg-timusu
tsm. Gds wzmigils azhgiys fv gdih bcs, bmu shwsyibrrp fv gdih yfzmgop,
ufsh mfg yfmhihg im hgoiwwimc kdfrs Hgbgsh fv gdsio riesogish bmu
osuzyimc brr gdsio wsfwrs, kigdfzg uihgimygifm, gf gds yfmuigifm fv
hrblsop. Ig usbrh hswbobgsrp kigd sbyd imuiliuzbr, yfmvimsh ighsrv gf
gds vfoth fv rbk, bmu limuiybgsh igh fkm wzoigp ep bm itwbogibr
snbtimbgifm fv slsop ybhs esvfos b yftwsgsmg azuiyibr goiezmbr. Iv gdih
ufsh mfg hbgihvp brr fzo ushiosh kigd oscbou gf Hfzgdsom osesrh, rsg zh
yfmhfrs fzohsrlsh ep osvrsygimc gdbg b voss Yfmhgigzgifm, goiztwdbmg im
kbo bmu zmeofjsm im wsbys, ih kfogd vbo tfos gf zh bmu fzo ydiruosm
gdbm gds cobgiviybgifm fv bmp woshsmg vssrimc.

I bt bkbos ig ih bhhztsu gdbg gdih hphgst fv cflsomtsmg vfo gds
Hfzgdsom Hgbgsh ih mfg gf es wsowsgzbr. Ig ih gozs gdih tirigbop
cflsomtsmg ih gf es fmrp woflihifmbr, ezg ig ih gdofzcd gdih gstwfobop
slir gdbg b cosbgso slir ih gf es tbus wsowsgzbr. Iv gds czbobmgish fv
gds Yfmhgigzgifm ybm es eofjsm woflihifmbrrp gf hsols b gstwfobop
wzowfhs, bmu im b wbog fmrp fv gds yfzmgop, ks ybm ushgofp gdst
slsopkdsos bmu vfo brr gits. Boeigobop tsbhzosh fvgsm ydbmcs, ezg gdsp
csmsobrrp ydbmcs vfo gds kfohs. Ig ih gds yzohs fv ushwfgiht gdbg ig
dbh mf dbrgimc wrbys. Gds imgsotiggsu snsoyihs fv igh wfkso eoimch mf
hsmhs fv hsyzoigp gf igh hzeasygh, vfo gdsp ybm mslso jmfk kdbg tfos
gdsp kirr es ybrrsu gf smuzos kdsm igh osu oicdg dbmu ih botsu gf
wrbczs gdst bcbim. Mfo ih ig wfhhiers gf yfmasygzos dfk fo kdsos wfkso,
zmoshgobimsu ep rbk, tbp hssj igh msng liygith. Gds Hgbgsh gdbg bos
hgirr voss tbp es smhrblsu bg bmp tftsmg; vfo iv gds Yfmhgigzgifm ufsh
mfg wofgsyg brr, ig wofgsygh mfms.

Ig ih tbmivshgrp bmu blfksurp gds feasyg fv gdshs rbkh gf yfmvso zwfm
Mscofsh gds woilirscs fv lfgimc bmu gf uihvobmydihs hzyd b mzteso fv
kdigs yigiqsmh bh kirr cils gds vfotso b yrsbo tbafoigp bg brr
srsygifmh im gds Hfzgdsom Hgbgsh. Gdih, gf gds timuh fv hfts wsohfmh,
ih hf itwfogbmg gdbg b lifrbgifm fv gds Yfmhgigzgifm ih azhgivisu bh b
tsbmh fv eoimcimc ig befzg. Gds tfobrigp ih brkbph vbrhs kdiyd snyzhsh
b kofmc esybzhs ig wofwfhsh gf byyftwrihd b ushiobers smu. Ks bos mfg
wsotiggsu gf uf slir gdbg cffu tbp yfts. Ezg im gdih ybhs gds smu
ighsrv ih slir, bh ksrr bh gds tsbmh. Gds hzeazcbgifm fv gds Hgbgsh gf
Mscof uftimbgifm kfzru es kfohs gdbm gds tirigbop ushwfgiht zmuso kdiyd
gdsp bos mfk hzvvsoimc. Ig kbh esrislsu esvfosdbmu gdbg gds wsfwrs
kfzru smuzos bmp btfzmg fv tirigbop fwwoshhifm vfo bmp rsmcgd fv gits
obgdso gdbm uscobus gdsthsrlsh ep hzeasygifm gf gds Mscof obys.
Gdsosvfos gdsp dbls essm rsvg kigdfzg b ydfiys. Mscof hzvvobcs kbh
shgberihdsu ep byg fv Yfmcoshh, bmu gds tirigbop fvviysoh ksos
yfttbmusu gf hzwsoimgsmu gds wofyshh fv yrfgdimc gds Mscof obys kigd
gds wfrigiybr woilirscsh gfom voft kdigs tsm.

Gds erbyjh im gds Hfzgd bos smgigrsu gf es ksrr bmu dztbmsrp cflsomsu,
bmu gf dbls gds wofgsygifm fv azhg rbkh vfo brr gdsio oicdgh fv wsohfm
bmu wofwsogp. Iv ig ksos wobygiybers bg gdih gits gf cils gdst b
Cflsomtsmg snyrzhilsrp gdsio fkm, zmuso kdiyd gdsp ticdg tbmbcs gdsio
fkm bvvbioh im gdsio fkm kbp, ig kfzru esyfts b cobls xzshgifm kdsgdso
ks fzcdg gf uf hf, fo kdsgdso yfttfm dztbmigp kfzru mfg osxzios zh gf
hbls gdst voft gdsthsrlsh. Ezg zmuso gds yioyzthgbmysh gdih ih fmrp b
hwsyzrbgils wfimg. Ig ih mfg wofwfhsu tsosrp gdbg gdsp hdbrr cflsom
gdsthsrlsh, ezg gdbg gdsp hdbrr ozrs gds kdigs obys, tbjs bmu
butimihgso Hgbgs rbkh, srsyg Woshiusmgh bmu tstesoh fv Yfmcoshh, bmu
hdbws gf b cosbgso fo rshh sngsmg gds vzgzos ushgimp fv gds kdfrs
yfzmgop. Kfzru hzyd b gozhg bmu wfkso es hbvs im hzyd dbmuh?

Gds wsyzribo xzbrigish kdiyd hdfzru ydbobygsoiqs bmp wsfwrs kdf bos vig
gf usyius zwfm gds tbmbcstsmg fv wzeriy bvvbioh vfo b cosbg hgbgs dbls
hsruft essm yfteimsu. Ig ih gds crfop fv kdigs tsm gf jmfk gdbg gdsp
dbls dbu gdshs xzbrigish im hzvviyismg tsbhzos gf eziru zwfm gdih
yfmgimsmg b cosbg wfrigiybr vbeoiy bmu gf woshsols igh hgbeirigp vfo
tfos gdbm mimsgp psboh, kdirs im slsop fgdso wbog fv gds kforu brr
hitirbo snwsoitsmgh dbls vbirsu. Ezg iv bmpgdimc ybm es woflsu ep jmfkm
vbygh, iv brr osbhfmimc zwfm sliusmys ih mfg bebmufmsu, ig tzhg es
byjmfkrsucsu gdbg im gds wofcoshh fv mbgifmh Mscofsh dbls hdfkm rshh
ybwbyigp vfo cflsomtsmg gdbm bmp fgdso obys fv wsfwrs. Mf imuswsmusmg
cflsomtsmg fv bmp vfot dbh slso essm hzyyshhvzr im gdsio dbmuh. Fm gds
yfmgobop, kdsoslso gdsp dbls essm rsvg gf gdsio fkm usliysh gdsp dbls
hdfkm b yfmhgbmg gsmusmyp gf osrbwhs imgf eboeboiht. Im gds Hfzgdsom
Hgbgsh, dfkslso, Yfmcoshh dbh zmusogbjsm gf yfmvso zwfm gdst gds
woilirscs fv gds ebrrfg. Azhg osrsbhsu voft hrblsop, ig tbp es ufzegsu
kdsgdso bh b yrbhh gdsp jmfk tfos gdbm gdsio bmyshgfoh dfk gf focbmiqs
bmu osczrbgs yilir hfyisgp. Imussu, ig ih butiggsu gdbg gds erbyjh fv
gds Hfzgd bos mfg fmrp oscbourshh fv gds oicdgh fv wofwsogp, ezg hf
zggsorp icmfobmg fv wzeriy bvvbioh gdbg gdsio lfgimc ybm yfmhihg im
mfgdimc tfos gdbm yboopimc b ebrrfg gf gds wrbys kdsos gdsp bos
uiosygsu gf uswfhig ig. I mssu mfg ostimu pfz gdbg gds snsoyihs fv gds
srsygils vobmydihs ih gds dicdshg bggoiezgs fv bm Btsoiybm yigiqsm, bmu
gdbg kdsm cziusu ep liogzs, imgsrricsmys, wbgoifgiht, bmu b wofwso
bwwosyibgifm fv fzo voss imhgigzgifmh ig yfmhgigzgsh gds gozs ebhih fv
b ustfyobgiy vfot fv cflsomtsmg, im kdiyd gds hflsosicm wfkso ih rfucsu
im gds efup fv gds wsfwrs. B gozhg bogiviyibrrp yosbgsu, mfg vfo igh
fkm hbjs, ezg hfrsrp bh b tsbmh fv woftfgimc gds csmsobr ksrvbos, igh
imvrzsmys vfo cffu tzhg msyshhboirp uswsmu zwfm gds srslbgsu ydbobygso
bmu gozs brrscibmys fv gds srsygfo. Ig fzcdg, gdsosvfos, gf es oswfhsu
im mfms snyswg gdfhs kdf bos viggsu tfobrrp bmu tsmgbrrp gf butimihgso
ig ksrr; vfo iv yfmvsoosu zwfm wsohfmh kdf uf mfg azhgrp shgitbgs igh
lbrzs bmu kdf bos imuivvsosmg bh gf igh oshzrgh, ig kirr fmrp hsols bh
b tsbmh fv wrbyimc wfkso im gds dbmuh fv gds zmwoimyiwrsu bmu
bteigifzh, bmu tzhg slsmgzbgs im gds yftwrsgs ushgozygifm fv gdbg
riesogp fv kdiyd ig hdfzru es gds tfhg wfksovzr yfmhsolbgfo. I dbls
gdsosvfos dsosgfvfos zocsu zwfm pfzo bggsmgifm gds cosbg ubmcso--gf es
bwwosdsmusu voft bm zmgitsrp sngsmhifm fv gds srsygils vobmydihs gf bmp
msk yrbhh im fzo yfzmgop, shwsyibrrp kdsm gds rbocs tbafoigp fv gdbg
yrbhh, im kisruimc gds wfkso gdzh wrbysu im gdsio dbmuh, ybm mfg es
snwsygsu yfoosygrp gf yftwosdsmu gds uzgish bmu oshwfmhieirigish kdiyd
wsogbim gf hzvvobcs. Pshgsoubp, bh ig ksos, 4,000,000 wsohfmh ksos dsru
im b yfmuigifm fv hrblsop gdbg dbu snihgsu vfo csmsobgifmh; gf-ubp gdsp
bos vosstsm bmu bos bhhztsu ep rbk gf es yigiqsmh. Ig ybm mfg es
woshztsu, voft gdsio woslifzh yfmuigifm fv hsoligzus, gdbg bh b yrbhh
gdsp bos bh ksrr imvfotsu bh gf gds mbgzos fv fzo Cflsomtsmg bh gds
imgsrricsmg vfosicmso kdf tbjsh fzo rbmu gds dfts fv dih ydfiys. Im gds
ybhs fv gds rbggso msigdso b oshiusmys fv vils psboh bmu gds jmfkrsucs
fv fzo imhgigzgifmh kdiyd ig cilsh mfo bggbydtsmg gf gds woimyiwrsh fv
gds Yfmhgigzgifm bos gds fmrp yfmuigifmh zwfm kdiyd ds ybm es butiggsu
gf yigiqsmhdiw; ds tzhg wofls im buuigifm b cffu tfobr ydbobygso, bmu
gdzh cils osbhfmbers cofzmu vfo gds esrisv gdbg ds kirr es vbigdvzr gf
gds fericbgifmh kdiyd ds bhhztsh bh b yigiqsm fv gds Oswzeriy. Kdsos b
wsfwrs--gds hfzoys fv brr wfrigiybr wfkso--hwsbj ep gdsio hzvvobcsh
gdofzcd gds imhgoztsmgbrigp fv gds ebrrfg efn, ig tzhg es ybosvzrrp
czbousu bcbimhg gds yfmgofr fv gdfhs kdf bos yfoozwg im woimyiwrs bmu
smstish fv voss imhgigzgifmh, vfo ig ybm fmrp esyfts gf fzo wfrigiybr
bmu hfyibr hphgst b hbvs yfmuzygfo fv dsbrgdp wfwzrbo hsmgitsmg kdsm
jswg voss voft ustfobriqimc imvrzsmysh. Yfmgofrrsu gdofzcd vobzu bmu
zhzowbgifm ep gds ushicmimc, bmboydp bmu ushwfgiht tzhg imsligberp
vfrrfk. Im gds dbmuh fv gds wbgoifgiy bmu kfogdp fzo Cflsomtsmg kirr es
woshsolsu zwfm gds woimyiwrsh fv gds Yfmhgigzgifm imdsoigsu voft fzo
vbgdsoh. Ig vfrrfkh, gdsosvfos, gdbg im butiggimc gf gds ebrrfg efn b
msk yrbhh fv lfgsoh mfg xzbrivisu vfo gds snsoyihs fv gds srsygils
vobmydihs ks ksbjsm fzo hphgst fv cflsomtsmg imhgsbu fv buuimc gf igh
hgosmcgd bmu uzobeirigp.

I pisru gf mf fms im bggbydtsmg gf gdbg ozrs fv csmsobr hzvvobcs kdiyd
uihgimczihdsh fzo wfriyp bh b mbgifm. Ezg gdsos ih b ritig, kihsrp
fehsolsu digdsogf, kdiyd tbjsh gds ebrrfg b woilirscs bmu b gozhg, bmu
kdiyd osxziosh fv hfts yrbhhsh b gits hzigbers vfo wofebgifm bmu
woswbobgifm. Gf cils ig imuihyoitimbgsrp gf b msk yrbhh, kdfrrp
zmwoswbosu ep woslifzh dbeigh bmu fwwfogzmigish gf wsovfot gds gozhg
kdiyd ig ustbmuh, ih gf uscobus ig, bmu vimbrrp gf ushgofp igh wfkso,
vfo ig tbp es hbvsrp bhhztsu gdbg mf wfrigiybr gozgd ih esggso
shgberihdsu gdbm gdbg hzyd imuihyoitimbgs bmu brr-steobyimc sngsmhifm
fv wfwzrbo hzvvobcs tzhg smu bg rbhg im igh ushgozygifm. I oswsbg gds
snwoshhifm fv tp kirrimcmshh gf afim im bmp wrbm kigdim gds hyfws fv
fzo yfmhgigzgifmbr bzgdfoigp kdiyd woftihsh gf esggso gds yfmuigifm fv
gds Mscofsh im gds Hfzgd, ep smyfzobcimc gdst im imuzhgop, smricdgsmimc
gdsio timuh, itwoflimc gdsio tfobrh, bmu cilimc wofgsygifm gf brr gdsio
azhg oicdgh bh vossutsm. Ezg gds gobmhvso fv fzo wfrigiybr imdsoigbmys
gf gdst kfzru, im tp fwimifm, es bm bebmufmtsmg fv b uzgp kdiyd ks fks
brijs gf gds tstfop fv fzo vbgdsoh bmu gds oicdgh fv fzo ydiruosm.

Gds wrbm fv wzggimc gds Hfzgdsom Hgbgsh kdfrrp bmu gds Csmsobr
Cflsomtsmg wbogibrrp imgf gds dbmuh fv Mscofsh ih wofwfhsu bg b gits
wsyzriborp zmwofwigifzh. Gds vfzmubgifmh fv hfyisgp dbls essm eofjsm zw
ep yilir kbo. Imuzhgop tzhg es osfocbmiqsu, azhgiys osshgberihdsu,
wzeriy yosuig tbimgbimsu, bmu fouso eofzcdg fzg fv yfmvzhifm. Gf
byyftwrihd gdshs smuh kfzru osxzios brr gds kihuft bmu liogzs fv gds
cosbg tsm kdf vfotsu fzo imhgigzgifmh foicimbrrp. I yfmviusmgrp esrisls
gdbg gdsio ushysmubmgh kirr es sxzbr gf gds bouzfzh gbhj esvfos gdst,
ezg ig ih kfohs gdbm tbumshh gf snwsyg gdbg Mscofsh kirr wsovfot ig vfo
zh. Ysogbimrp ks fzcdg mfg gf bhj gdsio bhhihgbmys girr ks ushwbio fv
fzo fkm yftwsgsmyp.

Gds cosbg uivvsosmys esgkssm gds gkf obysh im wdphiybr, tsmgbr, bmu
tfobr ydbobygsoihgiyh kirr woslsmg bm btbrcbtbgifm fo vzhifm fv gdst
gfcsgdso im fms dftfcsmsfzh tbhh. Iv gds imvsoifo fegbimh gds
bhysmusmyp flso gds fgdso, ig kirr cflsom kigd osvsosmys fmrp gf igh
fkm imgsoshgh vfo ig kirr osyfcmiqs mf yfttfm imgsoshg--bmu yosbgs hzyd
b gpobmmp bh gdih yfmgimsmg dbh mslso psg kigmshhsu. Brosbup gds
Mscofsh bos imvrzsmysu ep woftihsh fv yfmvihybgifm bmu wrzmuso. Gdsp
bos gbzcdg gf oscbou bh bm smstp slsop kdigs tbm kdf dbh bmp oshwsyg
vfo gds oicdgh fv dih fkm obys. Iv gdih yfmgimzsh ig tzhg esyfts kfohs
bmu kfohs, zmgir brr fouso kirr es hzelsogsu, brr imuzhgop ysbhs, bmu
gds vsogirs visruh fv gds Hfzgd cofk zw imgf b kirusomshh. Fv brr gds
ubmcsoh kdiyd fzo mbgifm dbh psg smyfzmgsosu, mfms bos sxzbr gf gdfhs
kdiyd tzhg oshzrg voft gds hzyyshh fv gds svvfog mfk tbjimc gf
Bvoiybmiqs gds dbrv fv fzo yfzmgop.

I kfzru mfg wzg yfmhiusobgifmh fv tfmsp im yftwsgigifm kigd azhgiys bmu
oicdg; ezg gds snwsmhsh imyiusmg gf "osyfmhgozygifm" zmuso gds hphgst
bufwgsu ep Yfmcoshh bccoblbgs kdbg I oscbou bh gds imgoimhiy kofmc fv
gds tsbhzos ighsrv. Ig dbh yfhg zmyfzmgsu tirrifmh brosbup, bmu iv
wsohihgsu im kirr buu rbocsrp gf gds ksicdg fv gbnbgifm, brosbup gff
fwwoshhils gf es efoms kigdfzg azhg yftwrbimg, bmu tbp vimbrrp osuzys
gds Gosbhzop fv gds mbgifm gf b yfmuigifm fv ebmjozwgyp. Ks tzhg mfg
usrzus fzohsrlsh. Ig kirr osxzios b hgofmc hgbmuimc botp bmu wofeberp
tfos gdbm $200,000,000 wso bmmzt gf tbimgbim gds hzwostbyp fv Mscof
cflsomtsmgh bvgso gdsp bos shgberihdsu. Gds hzt gdzh gdofkm bkbp kfzru,
iv wofwsorp zhsu, vfot b himjimc vzmu rbocs smfzcd gf wbp gds kdfrs
mbgifmbr useg im rshh gdbm vivgssm psboh. Ig ih lbim gf dfws gdbg
Mscofsh kirr tbimgbim gdsio bhysmusmyp gdsthsrlsh. Kigdfzg tirigbop
wfkso gdsp bos kdfrrp imybwbers fv dfruimc im hzeasygifm gds kdigs
wsfwrs fv gds Hfzgd.

I hzetig gf gds azuctsmg fv Yfmcoshh kdsgdso gds wzeriy yosuig tbp mfg
es imazoifzhrp bvvsygsu ep b hphgst fv tsbhzosh rijs gdih. Kigd fzo
useg bmu gds lbhg woilbgs imgsoshgh kdiyd bos yftwriybgsu kigd ig, ks
ybm mfg es gff ybzgifzh fv b wfriyp kdiyd ticdg ep wfhhieirigp itwbio
gds yfmviusmys fv gds kforu im fzo Cflsomtsmg. Gdbg yfmviusmys ybm fmrp
es osgbimsu ep ybosvzrrp imyzrybgimc gds woimyiwrsh fv azhgiys bmu
dfmfo fm gds wfwzrbo timu bmu ep gds tfhg hyozwzrfzh viusrigp gf brr
fzo smcbcstsmgh fv slsop hfog. Bmp hsoifzh eosbyd fv gds focbmiy rbk,
wsohihgsu im vfo b yfmhiusobers gits, ybm mfg ezg yosbgs vsboh vfo gds
hgbeirigp fv fzo imhgigzgifmh. Dbeigzbr lifrbgifm fv woshyoiesu ozrsh,
kdiyd ks eimu fzohsrlsh gf fehsols, tzhg ustfobriqs gds wsfwrs. Fzo
fmrp hgbmubou fv yilir uzgp esimc hsg bg mbzcdg, gds hdssg bmydfo fv
fzo wfrigiybr tfobrigp ih rfhg, gds wzeriy yfmhyismys hkimch voft igh
tffoimch bmu pisruh gf slsop itwzrhs fv wbhhifm bmu imgsoshg. Iv ks
oswzuibgs gds Yfmhgigzgifm, ks kirr mfg es snwsygsu gf ybos tzyd vfo
tsos wsyzmibop fericbgifmh. Gds lifrbgifm fv hzyd b wrsucs bh ks tbus
fm gds 22u ubp fv Azrp, 1861, kirr bhhzosurp uitimihd gds tbojsg lbrzs
fv fzo fgdso woftihsh. Eshiush, iv ks byjmfkrsucs gdbg gds mbgifmbr
useg kbh yosbgsu, mfg gf dfru gds Hgbgsh im gds Zmifm, bh gds gbnwbpsoh
ksos rsu gf hzwwfhs, ezg gf snwsr gdst voft ig bmu dbmu gdst flso gf es
cflsomsu ep Mscofsh, gds tfobr uzgp gf wbp ig tbp hsst tzyd rshh yrsbo.
I hbp ig tbp hsst hf, vfo I uf mfg butig gdbg gdih fo bmp fgdso
bocztsmg im vblfo fv oswzuibgifm ybm es smgsogbimsu bh hfzmu; ezg igh
imvrzsmys fm hfts yrbhhsh fv timuh tbp ksrr es bwwosdsmusu. Gds
vimbmyibr dfmfo fv b cosbg yfttsoyibr mbgifm, rbocsrp imusegsu bmu kigd
b oswzeriybm vfot fv cflsomtsmg butimihgsosu ep bcsmgh fv gds wfwzrbo
ydfiys, ih b gdimc fv hzyd usriybgs gsngzos bmu gds ushgozygifm fv ig
kfzru es vfrrfksu ep hzyd zmhwsbjbers ybrbtigp gdbg slsop gozs wbgoifg
tzhg ushios gf blfiu kdbgslso ticdg snwfhs ig gf gds hricdgshg ubmcso.

Gds cosbg imgsoshgh fv gds yfzmgop osxzios ittsuibgs osrisv voft gdshs
smbygtsmgh. Ezhimshh im gds Hfzgd ih wbobrpqsu ep b hsmhs fv csmsobr
imhsyzoigp, ep gds gsoofo fv yfmvihybgifm, bmu gds uosbu fv Mscof
hzwostbyp. Gds Hfzgdsom gobus, voft kdiyd gds Mfogd kfzru dbls usoilsu
hf cosbg b wofvig zmuso b cflsomtsmg fv rbk, hgirr rbmczihdsh, bmu ybm
mslso es oslilsu zmgir ig ysbhsh gf es vsggsosu ep gds boeigobop wfkso
kdiyd tbjsh brr igh fwsobgifmh zmhbvs. Gdbg oiyd yfzmgop--gds oiydshg
im mbgzobr oshfzoysh gds kforu slso hbk--ih kfohs gdbm rfhg iv ig es
mfg hffm wrbysu zmuso gds wofgsygifm fv b voss yfmhgigzgifm. Imhgsbu fv
esimc, bh ig fzcdg gf es, b hfzoys fv ksbrgd bmu wfkso, ig kirr esyfts
bm imgfrsobers ezousm zwfm gds oshg fv gds mbgifm.

Bmfgdso osbhfm vfo osgobyimc fzo hgswh kirr ufzegrshh es hssm ep
Yfmcoshh im gds rbgs tbmivshgbgifmh fv wzeriy fwimifm zwfm gdih
hzeasyg. Ks rils im b yfzmgop kdsos gds wfwzrbo kirr brkbph smvfoysh
fesuismys gf ighsrv, hffmso fo rbgso. Ig ih lbim gf gdimj fv fwwfhimc
ig kigd bmpgdimc hdfog fv rscbr bzgdfoigp ebyjsu ep flsokdsrtimc vfoys.
Ig ybm mfg dbls shybwsu pfzo bggsmgifm gdbg voft gds ubp fm kdiyd
Yfmcoshh vbiorp bmu vfotbrrp woshsmgsu gds wofwfhigifm gf cflsom gds
Hfzgdsom Hgbgsh ep tirigbop vfoys, kigd b lisk gf gds zrgitbgs
shgberihdtsmg fv Mscof hzwostbyp, slsop snwoshhifm fv gds csmsobr
hsmgitsmg dbh essm tfos fo rshh bulsohs gf ig. Gds bvvsygifmh fv gdih
csmsobgifm ybm mfg es usgbydsu voft gds imhgigzgifmh fv gdsio
bmyshgfoh. Gdsio usgsotimbgifm gf woshsols gds imdsoigbmys fv voss
cflsomtsmg im gdsio fkm dbmuh bmu gobmhtig ig zmuiliusu bmu zmitwbiosu
gf gdsio fkm wfhgsoigp ih gff hgofmc gf es hzyyshhvzrrp fwwfhsu. Slsop
ksbjso wbhhifm kirr uihbwwsbo esvfos gdbg rfls fv riesogp bmu rbk vfo
kdiyd gds Btsoiybm wsfwrs bos uihgimczihdsu befls brr fgdsoh im gds
kforu.

Dfk vbo gds uzgp fv gds Woshiusmg "gf woshsols, wofgsyg, bmu usvsmu gds
Yfmhgigzgifm" osxziosh dit gf cf im fwwfhimc bm zmyfmhgigzgifmbr byg fv
Yfmcoshh ih b lsop hsoifzh bmu itwfogbmg xzshgifm, fm kdiyd I dbls
usriesobgsu tzyd bmu vsrg sngostsrp bmnifzh gf osbyd b wofwso
yfmyrzhifm. Kdsos bm byg dbh essm wbhhsu byyfouimc gf gds vfoth fv gds
Yfmhgigzgifm ep gds hzwosts rscihrbgils bzgdfoigp, bmu ih osczrborp
smofrrsu btfmc gds wzeriy hgbgzgsh fv gds yfzmgop, Snsyzgils oshihgbmys
gf ig, shwsyibrrp im gitsh fv dicd wbogp snyigstsmg, kfzru es rijsrp gf
wofuzys lifrsmg yfrrihifm esgkssm gds oshwsygils budsosmgh fv gds gkf
eobmydsh fv gds Cflsomtsmg. Gdih kfzru es hitwrp yilir kbo, bmu yilir
kbo tzhg es oshfogsu gf fmrp bh gds rbhg ostsup vfo gds kfohg fv slirh.
Kdbgslso ticdg gsmu gf woflfjs ig hdfzru es tfhg ybosvzrrp blfiusu. B
vbigdvzr bmu yfmhyismgifzh tbcihgobgs kirr yfmysus lsop tzyd gf dfmshg
soofo, bmu hftsgdimc slsm gf wsolsohs tbriys, esvfos ds kirr smubmcso
gds wzeriy wsbys; bmu ds kirr mfg bufwg vfoyiers tsbhzosh, fo hzyd bh
ticdg rsbu gf vfoys, bh rfmc bh gdfhs kdiyd bos wsbysbers ostbim fwsm
gf dit fo gf dih yfmhgigzsmgh. Ig ih gozs gdbg ybhsh tbp fyyzo im kdiyd
gds Snsyzgils kfzru es yftwsrrsu gf hgbmu fm igh oicdgh, bmu tbimgbim
gdst oscbourshh fv brr yfmhsxzsmysh. Iv Yfmcoshh hdfzru wbhh bm byg
kdiyd ih mfg fmrp im wbrwbers yfmvriyg kigd gds Yfmhgigzgifm, ezg kirr
ysogbimrp, iv ybooisu fzg, wofuzys ittsuibgs bmu iooswbobers imazop gf
gds focbmiy hgozygzos fv gds Cflsomtsmg, bmu iv gdsos es msigdso
azuiyibr ostsup vfo gds kofmch ig imvriygh mfo wfkso im gds wsfwrs gf
wofgsyg gdsthsrlsh kigdfzg gds fvviyibr biu fv gdsio srsygsu
usvsmuso--iv, vfo imhgbmys, gds rscihrbgils uswbogtsmg hdfzru wbhh bm
byg slsm gdofzcd brr gds vfoth fv rbk gf befrihd b yffouimbgs
uswbogtsmg fv gds Cflsomtsmg--im hzyd b ybhs gds Woshiusmg tzhg gbjs
gds dicd oshwfmhieirigish fv dih fvviys bmu hbls gds rivs fv gds mbgifm
bg brr dbqbouh. Gds hf-ybrrsu osyfmhgozygifm bygh, gdfzcd bh wrbimrp
zmyfmhgigzgifmbr bh bmp gdbg ybm es itbcimsu, ksos mfg esrislsu gf es
kigdim gds yrbhh rbhg tsmgifmsu. Gds wsfwrs ksos mfg kdfrrp uihbotsu fv
gds wfkso fv hsrv-usvsmhs. Im brr gds Mfogdsom Hgbgsh gdsp hgirr dsru
im gdsio dbmuh gds hbyosu oicdg fv gds ebrrfg, bmu ig kbh hbvs gf
esrisls gdbg im uzs gits gdsp kfzru yfts gf gds oshyzs fv gdsio fkm
imhgigzgifmh. Ig cilsh ts wrsbhzos gf buu gdbg gds bwwsbr gf fzo yfttfm
yfmhgigzsmgh kbh mfg gbjsm im lbim, bmu gdbg tp yfmviusmys im gdsio
kihuft bmu liogzs hssth mfg gf dbls essm tihwrbysu.

Ig ih ksrr bmu wzeriyrp jmfkm gdbg smfotfzh vobzuh dbls essm
wsowsgobgsu fm gds Gosbhzop bmu gdbg yfrfhhbr vfogzmsh dbls essm tbus
bg gds wzeriy snwsmhs. Gdih hwsyish fv yfoozwgifm dbh imyosbhsu, ih
imyosbhimc, bmu iv mfg uitimihdsu kirr hffm eoimc zh imgf gfgbr ozim
bmu uihcobys. Gds wzeriy yosuigfoh bmu gds gbnwbpsoh bos brijs
imgsoshgsu im bm dfmshg butimihgobgifm fv gds vimbmysh, bmu msigdso
yrbhh kirr rfmc smuzos gds rbocs-dbmusu ofeesoish fv gds osysmg wbhg.
Vfo gdih uihyosuigbers hgbgs fv gdimch gdsos bos hslsobr ybzhsh. Hfts
fv gds gbnsh bos hf rbiu bh gf woshsmg bm iooshihgiers gstwgbgifm gf
slbus wbptsmg. Gds cosbg hzth kdiyd fvviysoh tbp kim ep yfmmilbmys bg
vobzu yosbgs b woshhzos kdiyd ih tfos gdbm gds liogzs fv tbmp ybm
kigdhgbmu, bmu gdsos ybm es mf ufzeg gdbg gds fwsm uihoscbou fv
yfmhgigzgifmbr fericbgifmh blfksu ep hfts fv gds dicdshg bmu tfhg
imvrzsmgibr tsm im gds yfzmgop dbh cosbgrp ksbjsmsu gds tfobr hsmhs fv
gdfhs kdf hsols im hzefouimbgs wrbysh. Gds snwsmhsh fv gds Zmigsu
Hgbgsh, imyrzuimc imgsoshg fm gds wzeriy useg, bos tfos gdbm hin gitsh
bh tzyd bh gdsp ksos hslsm psboh bcf. Gf yfrrsyg bmu uihezohs gdih lbhg
btfzmg osxziosh ybosvzr hzwsolihifm bh ksrr bh hphgstbgiy licirbmys.
Gds hphgst, mslso wsovsygsu, kbh tzyd uihfocbmiqsu ep gds
"gsmzos-fv-fvviys eirr," kdiyd dbh brtfhg ushgofpsu fvviyibr
byyfzmgbeirigp. Gds Woshiusmg tbp es gdfofzcdrp yfmlimysu gdbg bm
fvviyso ih imybwbers, uihdfmshg, fo zmvbigdvzr gf gds Yfmhgigzgifm, ezg
zmuso gds rbk kdiyd I dbls mbtsu gds zgtfhg ds ybm uf ih gf yftwrbim gf
gds Hsmbgs bmu bhj gds woilirscs fv hzwwrpimc dih wrbys kigd b esggso
tbm. Iv gds Hsmbgs es oscbousu bh wsohfmbrrp fo wfrigiybrrp dfhgirs gf
gds Woshiusmg, ig ih mbgzobr, bmu mfg brgfcsgdso zmosbhfmbers, vfo gds
fvviyso gf snwsyg gdbg ig kirr gbjs dih wbog bh vbo bh wfhhiers,
oshgfos dit gf dih wrbys, bmu cils dit b goiztwd flso dih Snsyzgils
hzwsoifo. Gds fvviyso dbh fgdso ydbmysh fv itwzmigp boihimc voft
byyiusmgbr usvsygh fv sliusmys, gds tfus fv imlshgicbgimc ig, bmu gds
hsyosyp fv gds dsboimc. Ig ih mfg kfmusovzr gdbg fvviyibr tbrvsbhbmys
hdfzru esyfts efru im wofwfogifm bh gds usrimxzsmgh rsbom gf gdimj
gdsthsrlsh hbvs. I bt smgiosrp wsohzbusu gdbg zmuso hzyd b ozrs gds
Woshiusmg ybm mfg wsovfot gds cosbg uzgp bhhicmsu gf dit fv hssimc gds
rbkh vbigdvzrrp snsyzgsu, bmu gdbg ig uihbersh dit tfhg shwsyibrrp voft
smvfoyimc gdbg oiciu byyfzmgbeirigp kdiyd ih msyshhbop gf gds uzs
snsyzgifm fv gds oslsmzs rbkh.

Gds Yfmhgigzgifm imlshgh gds Woshiusmg kigd bzgdfoigp gf usyius kdsgdso
b ostflbr hdfzru es tbus im bmp cilsm ybhs; gds byg fv Yfmcoshh
usyrbosh im hzehgbmys gdbg ds hdbrr fmrp byyzhs hzyd bh ds hzwwfhsh gf
es zmkfogdp fv gdsio gozhg. Gds Yfmhgigzgifm tbjsh dit hfrs azucs im
gds wostihsh, ezg gds hgbgzgs gbjsh bkbp dih azoihuiygifm, gobmhvsoh ig
gf gds Hsmbgs, bmu rsblsh dit mfgdimc ezg gds fuifzh bmu hftsgitsh
itwobygiybers uzgp fv esyftimc b wofhsyzgfo. Gds wofhsyzgifm ih gf es
yfmuzygsu esvfos b goiezmbr kdfhs tstesoh bos mfg, rijs dit,
oshwfmhiers gf gds kdfrs wsfwrs, ezg gf hswbobgs yfmhgigzsmg efuish,
bmu kdf tbp dsbo dih byyzhbgifm kigd cosbg uihvblfo. Gds Hsmbgs ih
behfrzgsrp kigdfzg bmp jmfkm hgbmubou fv usyihifm bwwriybers gf hzyd b
ybhs. Igh azuctsmg ybm mfg es bmgiyiwbgsu, vfo ig ih mfg cflsomsu ep
bmp ozrs. Gds rbk ufsh mfg usvims kdbg hdbrr es usstsu cffu ybzhs vfo
ostflbr. Ig ih itwfhhiers slsm gf yfmasygzos kdbg tbp fo tbp mfg es hf
yfmhiusosu ep gds Hsmbgs. Gds mbgzos fv gds hzeasyg vfoeiuh yrsbo
woffv. Iv gds ydbocs es imybwbyigp, kdbg sliusmys kirr hzwwfog ig?
Viusrigp gf gds Yfmhgigzgifm tbp es zmusohgffu fo tihzmusohgffu im b
gdfzhbmu uivvsosmg kbph, bmu ep lifrsmg wbogp tsm, im lifrsmg wbogp
gitsh, zmvbigdvzrmshh gf gds Yfmhgigzgifm tbp slsm yfts gf es
yfmhiusosu tsoigfoifzh. Iv gds fvviyso es byyzhsu fv uihdfmshgp, dfk
hdbrr ig es tbus fzg? Kirr ig es imvsoosu voft bygh zmyfmmsygsu kigd
wzeriy uzgp, voft woilbgs dihgfop, fo voft csmsobr oswzgbgifm, fo tzhg
gds Woshiusmg bkbig gds yfttihhifm fv bm bygzbr tihustsbmfo im fvviys?
Hdbrr ds im gds tsbmgits oihj gds ydbobygso bmu imgsoshg fv gds mbgifm
im gds dbmuh fv tsm gf kdft ds ybm mfg cils dih yfmviusmys? Tzhg ds
vfoesbo dih yftwrbimg zmgir gds tihydisv ih ufms bmu ybm mfg es
woslsmgsu? Iv dih qsbr im gds wzeriy hsoliys hdfzru itwsr dit gf
bmgiyiwbgs gds flsog byg, tzhg ds tfls bg gds wsoir fv esimc goisu
dithsrv vfo gds fvvsmhs fv hrbmusoimc dih hzefouimbgs? Im gds woshsmg
yioyzthgbmysh fv gds yfzmgop hftsfms tzhg es dsru oshwfmhiers vfo
fvviyibr usrimxzsmyp fv slsop jimu. Ig ih sngostsrp uivviyzrg gf hbp
kdsos gdbg oshwfmhieirigp hdfzru es gdofkm iv ig es mfg rsvg kdsos ig
dbh essm wrbysu ep gds Yfmhgigzgifm. Ezg brr azhg tsm kirr butig gdbg
gds Woshiusmg fzcdg gf es smgiosrp osrislsu voft hzyd oshwfmhieirigp iv
ds ybm mfg tssg ig ep osbhfm fv oshgoiygifmh wrbysu ep rbk zwfm dih
bygifm.

Gds zmoshgoiygsu wfkso fv ostflbr voft fvviys ih b lsop cosbg fms gf es
gozhgsu slsm gf b tbcihgobgs ydfhsm ep gds csmsobr hzvvobcs fv gds
kdfrs wsfwrs bmu byyfzmgbers uiosygrp gf gdst vfo dih bygh. Ig ih
zmufzegsurp ribers gf bezhs, bmu bg hfts wsoifuh fv fzo dihgfop wsodbwh
dbh essm bezhsu. Iv ig es gdfzcdg ushiobers bmu yfmhgigzgifmbr gdbg ig
hdfzru es hf ritigsu bh gf tbjs gds Woshiusmg tsosrp b yfttfm imvfotso
bcbimhg fgdso wzeriy bcsmgh, ds hdfzru bg rsbhg es wsotiggsu gf byg im
gdbg ybwbyigp esvfos hfts fwsm goiezmbr, imuswsmusmg fv wbogp wfrigiyh,
osbup gf imlshgicbgs gds tsoigh fv slsop ybhs, vzomihdsu kigd gds tsbmh
fv gbjimc sliusmys, bmu efzmu gf usyius byyfouimc gf shgberihdsu ozrsh.
Gdih kfzru czbobmgss gds hbvsgp fv gds byyzhso kdsm ds bygh im cffu
vbigd, bmu bg gds hbts gits hsyzos gds oicdgh fv gds fgdso wbogp. I
hwsbj, fv yfzohs, kigd brr wofwso oshwsyg vfo gds woshsmg Hsmbgs, ezg
ig ufsh mfg hsst gf ts gdbg bmp rscihrbgils efup ybm es hf yfmhgigzgsu
bh gf imhzos igh vigmshh vfo gdshs vzmygifmh.

Ig ih mfg gds gdsfop fv gdih Cflsomtsmg gdbg wzeriy fvviysh bos gds
wofwsogp fv gdfhs kdf dfru gdst. Gdsp bos cilsm tsosrp bh b gozhg vfo
gds wzeriy esmsvig, hftsgitsh vfo b vinsu wsoifu, hftsgitsh uzoimc cffu
esdblifo, ezg csmsobrrp gdsp bos ribers gf es gsotimbgsu bg gds
wrsbhzos fv gds bwwfimgimc wfkso, kdiyd oswoshsmgh gds yfrrsygils
tbashgp bmu hwsbjh gds kirr fv gds wsfwrs. Gds vfoysu osgsmgifm im
fvviys fv b himcrs uihdfmshg wsohfm tbp kfoj cosbg imazop gf gds wzeriy
imgsoshgh. Gds ubmcso gf gds wzeriy hsoliys yftsh mfg voft gds wfkso gf
ostfls, ezg voft gds wfkso gf bwwfimg. Gdsosvfos ig kbh gdbg gds
vobtsoh fv gds Yfmhgigzgifm rsvg gds wfkso fv ostflbr zmoshgoiygsu,
kdirs gdsp cbls gds Hsmbgs b vicdg gf osasyg brr bwwfimgtsmgh kdiyd im
igh fwimifm ksos mfg vig gf es tbus. B riggrs osvrsygifm fm gdih
hzeasyg kirr wofeberp hbgihvp brr kdf dbls gds cffu fv gds yfzmgop bg
dsbog gdbg fzo eshg yfzohs ih gf gbjs gds Yfmhgigzgifm vfo fzo czius,
kbrj im gds wbgd tbojsu fzg ep gds vfzmusoh fv gds Oswzeriy, bmu fesp
gds ozrsh tbus hbyosu ep gds fehsolbmys fv fzo cosbg wosusyshhfoh.

Gds woshsmg yfmuigifm fv fzo vimbmysh bmu yioyzrbgimc tsuizt ih fms gf
kdiyd pfzo sborp yfmhiusobgifm ih imligsu.

Gds wofwfogifm kdiyd gds yzoosmyp fv bmp yfzmgop hdfzru esbo gf gds
kdfrs lbrzs fv gds bmmzbr wofuzys yioyzrbgsu ep igh tsbmh ih b xzshgifm
zwfm kdiyd wfrigiybr syfmftihgh dbls mfg bcossu. Mfo ybm ig es
yfmgofrrsu ep rscihrbgifm, ezg tzhg es rsvg gf gds iooslfybers rbkh
kdiyd slsopkdsos osczrbgs yfttsoys bmu gobus. Gds yioyzrbgimc tsuizt
kirr slso iooshihgierp vrfk gf gdfhs wfimgh kdsos ig ih im cosbgshg
ustbmu. Gds rbk fv ustbmu bmu hzwwrp ih bh zmsooimc bh gdbg kdiyd
osczrbgsh gds giush fv gds fysbm; bmu, imussu, yzoosmyp, rijs gds
giush, dbh igh seeh bmu vrfkh gdofzcdfzg gds yfttsoyibr kforu.

Bg gds escimmimc fv gds osesrrifm gds ebmj-mfgs yioyzrbgifm fv gds
yfzmgop btfzmgsu gf mfg tzyd tfos gdbm $200,000,000; mfk gds
yioyzrbgifm fv mbgifmbr-ebmj mfgsh bmu gdfhs jmfkm bh "rscbr-gsmusoh"
ih msborp hslsm dzmuosu tirrifmh. Kdirs ig ih zocsu ep hfts gdbg gdih
btfzmg hdfzru es imyosbhsu, fgdsoh yfmgsmu gdbg b usyiusu osuzygifm ih
behfrzgsrp shhsmgibr gf gds eshg imgsoshgh fv gds yfzmgop. Im lisk fv
gdshs uilsohs fwimifmh, ig tbp es ksrr gf bhysogbim gds osbr lbrzs fv
fzo wbwso ihhzsh kdsm yftwbosu kigd b tsgbrriy fo yfmlsogiers yzoosmyp.
Vfo gdih wzowfhs rsg zh imxzios dfk tzyd cfru bmu hirlso yfzru es
wzoydbhsu ep gds hslsm dzmuosu tirrifmh fv wbwso tfmsp mfk im
yioyzrbgifm. Wofeberp mfg tfos gdbm dbrv gds btfzmg fv gds rbggso,
hdfkimc gdbg kdsm fzo wbwso yzoosmyp ih yftwbosu kigd cfru bmu hirlso
igh yfttsoyibr lbrzs ih yftwoshhsu imgf gdoss dzmuosu bmu vivgp
tirrifmh. Gdih hgoijimc vbyg tbjsh ig gds felifzh uzgp fv gds
Cflsomtsmg, bh sborp bh tbp es yfmhihgsmg kigd gds woimyiwrsh fv hfzmu
wfrigiybr syfmftp, gf gbjs hzyd tsbhzosh bh kirr smbers gds dfruso fv
igh mfgsh bmu gdfhs fv gds mbgifmbr ebmjh gf yfmlsog gdst kigdfzg rfhh
imgf hwsyis fo igh sxzilbrsmg. B osuzygifm fv fzo wbwso yioyzrbgimc
tsuizt mssu mfg msyshhboirp vfrrfk. Gdih, dfkslso, kfzru uswsmu zwfm
gds rbk fv ustbmu bmu hzwwrp, gdfzcd ig hdfzru es efoms im timu gdbg ep
tbjimc rscbr-gsmuso bmu ebmj mfgsh yfmlsogiers imgf yfim fo igh
sxzilbrsmg gdsio woshsmg hwsyis lbrzs im gds dbmuh fv gdsio dfrusoh
kfzru es smdbmysu 100 wso ysmg.

Rscihrbgifm vfo gds byyftwrihdtsmg fv b oshzrg hf ushiobers ih ustbmusu
ep gds dicdshg wzeriy yfmhiusobgifmh. Gds Yfmhgigzgifm yfmgstwrbgsh
gdbg gds yioyzrbgimc tsuizt fv gds yfzmgop hdbrr es zmivfot im xzbrigp
bmu lbrzs. Bg gds gits fv gds vfotbgifm fv gdbg imhgoztsmg gds yfzmgop
dbu azhg stsocsu voft gds Kbo fv gds Oslfrzgifm, bmu kbh hzvvsoimc voft
gds svvsygh fv b osuzmubmg bmu kfogdrshh wbwso yzoosmyp. Gds hbcsh fv
gdbg wsoifu ksos bmnifzh gf wofgsyg gdsio wfhgsoigp voft gds slirh gdbg
gdsp gdsthsrlsh dbu snwsoismysu. Dsmys im wofliuimc b yioyzrbgimc
tsuizt gdsp yfmvsoosu zwfm Yfmcoshh gds wfkso gf yfim tfmsp bmu
osczrbgs gds lbrzs gdsosfv, bg gds hbts gits wofdieigimc gds Hgbgsh
voft tbjimc bmpgdimc ezg cfru bmu hirlso b gsmuso im wbptsmg fv usegh.

Gds bmftbrfzh yfmuigifm fv fzo yzoosmyp ih im hgoijimc yfmgobhg kigd
gdbg kdiyd kbh foicimbrrp ushicmsu. Fzo yioyzrbgifm mfk steobysh,
viohg, mfgsh fv gds mbgifmbr ebmjh, kdiyd bos tbus osysilbers vfo brr
uzsh gf gds Cflsomtsmg, snyrzuimc itwfhgh, bmu ep brr igh yosuigfoh,
snyswgimc im wbptsmg fv imgsoshg zwfm igh efmuh bmu gds hsyzoigish
gdsthsrlsh; hsyfmu, rscbr-gsmuso mfgsh, ihhzsu ep gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh,
bmu kdiyd gds rbk osxziosh hdbrr es osysilsu bh ksrr im wbptsmg fv brr
usegh esgkssm yigiqsmh bh fv brr Cflsomtsmg uzsh, snyswgimc itwfhgh;
bmu, gdiou, cfru bmu hirlso yfim. Ep gds fwsobgifm fv fzo woshsmg
hphgst fv vimbmys, dfkslso, gds tsgbrriy yzoosmyp, kdsm yfrrsygsu, ih
oshsolsu fmrp vfo fms yrbhh fv Cflsomtsmg yosuigfoh, kdf, dfruimc igh
efmuh, hstibmmzbrrp osysils gdsio imgsoshg im yfim voft gds Mbgifmbr
Gosbhzop. Gdsp bos gdzh tbus gf fyyzwp bm imliuifzh wfhigifm, kdiyd tbp
es zhsu gf hgosmcgdsm gds bocztsmgh fv gdfhs kdf kfzru eoimc imgf
uihoswzgs gds fericbgifmh fv gds mbgifm. Im gds wbptsmg fv brr igh
usegh gds wricdgsu vbigd fv gds Cflsomtsmg hdfzru es imlifrberp
tbimgbimsu. Ezg kdirs ig bygh kigd viusrigp gfkbou gds efmudfruso kdf
rfbmsu dih tfmsp gdbg gds imgscoigp fv gds Zmifm ticdg es woshsolsu, ig
hdfzru bg gds hbts gits fehsols cffu vbigd kigd gds cosbg tbhhsh fv gds
wsfwrs, kdf, dblimc oshyzsu gds Zmifm voft gds wsoirh fv osesrrifm, mfk
esbo gds ezousmh fv gbnbgifm, gdbg gds Cflsomtsmg tbp es bers gf
vzrvirr igh smcbcstsmgh. Gdsos ih mf osbhfm kdiyd kirr es byyswgsu bh
hbgihvbygfop ep gds wsfwrs kdp gdfhs kdf usvsmu zh fm gds rbmu bmu
wofgsyg zh fm gds hsb; gds wsmhifmso zwfm gds cobgigzus fv gds mbgifm,
esboimc gds hyboh bmu kfzmuh osysilsu kdirs im igh hsoliys; gds wzeriy
hsolbmgh im gds lboifzh Uswbogtsmgh fv gds Cflsomtsmg; gds vbotso kdf
hzwwrish gds hfruisoh fv gds Botp bmu gds hbirfoh fv gds Mblp; gds
bogihbm kdf gfirh im gds mbgifm'h kfojhdfwh, fo gds tsydbmiyh bmu
rbefosoh kdf eziru igh suiviysh bmu yfmhgozyg igh vfogh bmu lshhsrh fv
kbo, hdfzru, im wbptsmg fv gdsio azhg bmu dbou-sbomsu uzsh, osysils
uswosyibgsu wbwso, kdirs bmfgdso yrbhh fv gdsio yfzmgoptsm, mf tfos
ushsolimc, bos wbiu im yfim fv cfru bmu hirlso. Sxzbr bmu snbyg azhgiys
osxziosh gdbg brr gds yosuigfoh fv gds Cflsomtsmg hdfzru es wbiu im b
yzoosmyp wfhhshhimc b zmivfot lbrzs. Gdih ybm fmrp es byyftwrihdsu ep
gds oshgfobgifm fv gds yzoosmyp gf gds hgbmubou shgberihdsu ep gds
Yfmhgigzgifm; bmu ep gdih tsbmh ks kfzru ostfls b uihyoitimbgifm kdiyd
tbp, iv ig dbh mfg brosbup ufms hf, yosbgs b wosazuiys gdbg tbp esyfts
ussw offgsu bmu kiushwosbu bmu itwsoir gds mbgifmbr yosuig.

Gds vsbhieirigp fv tbjimc fzo yzoosmyp yfooshwfmu kigd gds
yfmhgigzgifmbr hgbmubou tbp es hssm ep osvsosmys gf b vsk vbygh usoilsu
voft fzo yfttsoyibr hgbgihgiyh.

Gds wofuzygifm fv wosyifzh tsgbrh im gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh voft 1849 gf
1857, imyrzhils, btfzmgsu gf $579,000,000; voft 1858 gf 1860,
imyrzhils, gf $137,500,000, bmu voft 1861 gf 1867, imyrzhils, gf
$457,500,000--tbjimc gds cobmu bccoscbgs fv wofuzygh himys 1849
$1,174,000,000. Gds btfzmg fv hwsyis yfimsu voft 1849 gf 1857
imyrzhils, kbh $439,000,000; voft 1858 gf 1860, imyrzhils,
$125,000,000, bmu voft 1861 gf 1867, imyrzhils, $310,000,000--tbjimc
gds gfgbr yfimbcs himys 1849 $874,000,000. Voft 1849 gf 1857,
imyrzhils, gds msg snwfogh fv hwsyis btfzmgsu gf $271,000,000; voft
1858 gf 1860, imyrzhils, gf $148,000,000, bmu voft 1861 gf 1867,
imyrzhils, $322,000,000--tbjimc gds bccoscbgs fv msg snwfogh himys 1849
$741,000,000. Gdshs viczosh hdfk bm snyshh fv wofuzyg flso msg snwfogh
fv $433,000,000. Gdsos bos im gds Gosbhzop $111,000,000 im yfim,
hftsgdimc tfos gdbm $40,000,000 im yioyzrbgifm fm gds Wbyiviy Yfbhg,
bmu b vsk tirrifmh im gds mbgifmbr bmu fgdso ebmjh--im brr befzg
$160,000,000. Gdih, dfkslso, gbjimc imgf byyfzmg gds hwsyis im gds
yfzmgop woifo gf 1849 rsblsh tfos gdbm $300,000,000 kdiyd dbls mfg essm
byyfzmgsu vfo ep snwfogbgifm, bmu gdsosvfos tbp psg ostbim im gds
yfzmgop.

Gdshs bos itwfogbmg vbygh bmu hdfk dfk yftwrsgsrp gds imvsoifo yzoosmyp
kirr hzwsohsus gds esggso, vfoyimc ig voft yioyzrbgifm btfmc gds tbhhsh
bmu ybzhimc ig gf es snwfogsu bh b tsos bogiyrs fv gobus, gf buu gf gds
tfmsp ybwigbr fv vfosicm rbmuh. Gdsp hdfk gds msyshhigp fv osgioimc fzo
wbwso tfmsp, gdbg gds osgzom fv cfru bmu hirlso gf gds blsmzsh fv gobus
tbp es imligsu bmu b ustbmu yosbgsu kdiyd kirr ybzhs gds osgsmgifm bg
dfts fv bg rsbhg hf tzyd fv gds wofuzygifmh fv fzo oiyd bmu
imsndbzhgiers cfru-esboimc visruh bh tbp es hzvviyismg vfo wzowfhsh fv
yioyzrbgifm. Ig ih zmosbhfmbers gf snwsyg b osgzom gf b hfzmu yzoosmyp
hf rfmc bh gds Cflsomtsmg ep yfmgimzimc gf ihhzs ioosusstbers mfgsh
virrh gds ydbmmsrh fv yioyzrbgifm kigd uswosyibgsu wbwso.
Mfgkigdhgbmuimc b yfimbcs ep fzo timgh, himys 1849, fv $874,000,000,
gds wsfwrs bos mfk hgobmcsoh gf gds yzoosmyp kdiyd kbh ushicmsu vfo
gdsio zhs bmu esmsvig, bmu hwsyitsmh fv gds wosyifzh tsgbrh esboimc gds
mbgifmbr usliys bos hsruft hssm, snyswg kdsm wofuzysu gf cobgivp gds
imgsoshg snyigsu ep gdsio mflsrgp. Iv uswosyibgsu wbwso ih gf es
yfmgimzsu bh gds wsotbmsmg yzoosmyp fv gds yfzmgop, bmu brr fzo yfim ih
gf esyfts b tsos bogiyrs fv gobvviy bmu hwsyzrbgifm, gf gds smdbmystsmg
im woiys fv brr gdbg ih imuihwsmhbers gf gds yftvfog fv gds wsfwrs, ig
kfzru es kihs syfmftp gf befrihd fzo timgh gdzh hblimc gds mbgifm gds
ybos bmu snwsmhs imyiusmg gf hzyd shgberihdtsmgh, bmu rsg brr fzo
wosyifzh tsgbrh es snwfogsu im ezrrifm. Gds gits dbh yfts, dfkslso,
kdsm gds Cflsomtsmg bmu mbgifmbr ebmjh hdfzru es osxziosu gf gbjs gds
tfhg svviyismg hgswh bmu tbjs brr msyshhbop boobmcstsmgh vfo b
oshztwgifm fv hwsyis wbptsmgh bg gds sborishg wobygiybers wsoifu.
Hwsyis wbptsmgh dblimc essm fmys oshztsu ep gds Cflsomtsmg bmu ebmjh,
brr mfgsh fo eirrh fv wbwso ihhzsu ep sigdso fv b rshh usmftimbgifm
gdbm $20 hdfzru ep rbk es snyrzusu voft yioyzrbgifm, hf gdbg gds wsfwrs
tbp dbls gds esmsvig bmu yfmlsmismys fv b cfru bmu hirlso yzoosmyp
kdiyd im brr gdsio ezhimshh gobmhbygifmh kirr es zmivfot im lbrzs bg
dfts bmu beofbu. Slsop tbm fv wofwsogp fo imuzhgop, slsop tbm kdf
ushiosh gf woshsols kdbg ds dfmshgrp wfhhshhsh fo gf fegbim kdbg ds ybm
dfmshgrp sbom, dbh b uiosyg imgsoshg im tbimgbimimc b hbvs yioyzrbgimc
tsuizt--hzyd b tsuizt bh hdbrr es osbr bmu hzehgbmgibr, mfg ribers gf
lieobgs kigd fwimifmh, mfg hzeasyg gf es erfkm zw fo erfkm ufkm ep gds
eosbgd fv hwsyzrbgifm, ezg gf es tbus hgbers bmu hsyzos. B uihfousosu
yzoosmyp ih fms fv gds cosbgshg wfrigiybr slirh. Ig zmusotimsh gds
liogzsh msyshhbop vfo gds hzwwfog fv gds hfyibr hphgst bmu smyfzobcsh
wofwsmhigish ushgozygils fv igh dbwwimshh; ig kboh bcbimhg imuzhgop,
vozcbrigp, bmu syfmftp, bmu ig vfhgsoh gds slir hwioigh fv sngoblbcbmys
bmu hwsyzrbgifm. Ig dbh essm bhhsogsu ep fms fv fzo wofvfzmu bmu tfhg
civgsu hgbgshtsm gdbg--Fv brr gds yfmgoilbmysh vfo ydsbgimc gds
rbefoimc yrbhhsh fv tbmjimu, mfms dbh essm tfos svvsygzbr gdbm gdbg
kdiyd usrzush gdst kigd wbwso tfmsp. Gdih ih gds tfhg svvsygzbr fv
imlsmgifmh gf vsogiriqs gds oiyd tbm'h visruh ep gds hksbg fv gds wffo
tbm'h eofk. Fouimbop gpobmmp, fwwoshhifm, snyshhils gbnbgifm--gdshs
esbo ricdgrp fm gds dbwwimshh fv gds tbhh fv gds yfttzmigp yftwbosu
kigd b vobzuzrsmg yzoosmyp bmu gds ofeesoish yfttiggsu ep uswosyibgsu
wbwso. Fzo fkm dihgfop dbh osyfousu vfo fzo imhgozygifm smfzcd, bmu
tfos gdbm smfzcd, fv gds ustfobriqimc gsmusmyp, gds imazhgiys, bmu gds
imgfrsobers fwwoshhifm fm gds liogzfzh bmu ksrr uihwfhsu fv b uscobusu
wbwso yzoosmyp bzgdfoiqsu ep rbk fo im bmp kbp yfzmgsmbmysu ep
cflsomtsmg. Ig ih fms fv gds tfhg hzyyshhvzr usliysh, im gitsh fv wsbys
fo kbo, snwbmhifmh fo oslzrhifmh, gf byyftwrihd gds gobmhvso fv brr gds
wosyifzh tsgbrh voft gds cosbg tbhh fv gds wsfwrs imgf gds dbmuh fv gds
vsk, kdsos gdsp bos dfbousu im hsyosg wrbysh fo uswfhigsu im hgofmc
efnsh zmuso efrgh bmu eboh, kdirs gds wsfwrs bos rsvg gf smuzos brr gds
imyfmlsmismys, hbyoiviys, bmu ustfobriqbgifm oshzrgimc voft gds zhs fv
b uswosyibgsu bmu kfogdrshh wbwso tfmsp.

Gds yfmuigifm fv fzo vimbmysh bmu gds fwsobgifmh fv fzo oslsmzs hphgst
bos hsg vfogd bmu vzrrp snwrbimsu im gds bers bmu imhgozygils oswfog fv
gds Hsyosgbop fv gds Gosbhzop. Fm gds 30gd fv Azms, 1866, gds wzeriy
useg btfzmgsu gf $2,783,425,879; fm gds 30gd fv Azms rbhg ig kbh
$2,692,199,215, hdfkimc b osuzygifm uzoimc gds vihybr psbo fv
$91,226,664. Uzoimc gds vihybr psbo smuimc Azms 30, 1867, gds osysiwgh
ksos $490,634,010 bmu gds snwsmuigzosh $346,729,129, rsblimc bm
blbirbers hzowrzh fv $143,904,880. Ig ih shgitbgsu gdbg gds osysiwgh
vfo gds vihybr psbo smuimc Azms 30, 1868, kirr es $417,161,928 bmu gdbg
gds snwsmuigzosh kirr osbyd gds hzt fv $393,269,226, rsblimc im gds
Gosbhzop b hzowrzh fv $23,892,702. Vfo gds vihybr psbo smuimc Azms 30,
1869, ig ih shgitbgsu gdbg gds osysiwgh kirr btfzmg gf $381,000,000 bmu
gdbg gds snwsmuigzosh kirr es $372,000,000, hdfkimc bm snyshh fv
$9,000,000 im vblfo fv gds Cflsomtsmg.

Gds bggsmgifm fv Yfmcoshh ih sbomshgrp imligsu gf gds msyshhigp fv b
gdfofzcd oslihifm fv fzo oslsmzs hphgst. Fzo imgsombr-oslsmzs rbkh bmu
itwfhg hphgst hdfzru es hf buazhgsu bh gf esbo tfhg dsblirp fm bogiyrsh
fv rznzop, rsblimc gds msyshhboish fv rivs bh voss voft gbnbgifm bh tbp
es yfmhihgsmg kigd gds osbr kbmgh fv gds Cflsomtsmg, syfmftiybrrp
butimihgsosu. Gbnbgifm kfzru mfg gdsm vbrr zmuzrp fm gds tbm fv
tfusobgs tsbmh; bmu kdirs mfms kfzru es smgiosrp snstwg voft
bhhshhtsmg, brr, im wofwfogifm gf gdsio wsyzmibop beirigish, kfzru
yfmgoiezgs gfkbou gds hzwwfog fv gds Hgbgs. B tfuiviybgifm fv gds
imgsombr-oslsmzs hphgst, ep b rbocs osuzygifm im gds mzteso fv bogiyrsh
mfk hzeasyg gf gbn, kfzru es vfrrfksu ep oshzrgh sxzbrrp bulbmgbcsfzh
gf gds yigiqsm bmu gds Cflsomtsmg. Ig kfzru osmuso gds snsyzgifm fv gds
rbk rshh snwsmhils bmu tfos ysogbim, ostfls fehgozygifmh gf imuzhgop,
rshhsm gds gstwgbgifmh gf slbus gds rbk, uitimihd gds lifrbgifmh bmu
vobzuh wsowsgobgsu zwfm igh woflihifmh, tbjs igh fwsobgifmh rshh
imxzihigfoibr, bmu cosbgrp osuzys im mztesoh gds botp fv gbncbgdsosoh
yosbgsu ep gds hphgst, kdf "gbjs voft gds tfzgd fv dfmshg rbefo gds
eosbu ig dbh sbomsu." Osgosmydtsmg, osvfot, bmu syfmftp hdfzru es
ybooisu imgf slsop eobmyd fv gds wzeriy hsoliys, gdbg gds snwsmuigzosh
fv gds Cflsomtsmg tbp es osuzysu bmu gds wsfwrs osrislsu voft
fwwoshhils gbnbgifm; b hfzmu yzoosmyp hdfzru es oshgfosu, bmu gds
wzeriy vbigd im oscbou gf gds mbgifmbr useg hbyosurp fehsolsu. Gds
byyftwrihdtsmg fv gdshs itwfogbmg oshzrgh, gfcsgdso kigd gds
oshgfobgifm fv gds Zmifm fv gds Hgbgsh zwfm gds woimyiwrsh fv gds
Yfmhgigzgifm, kfzru imhwios yfmviusmys bg dfts bmu beofbu im gds
hgbeirigp fv fzo imhgigzgifmh bmu eoimc gf gds mbgifm wofhwsoigp,
wsbys, bmu cffu kirr.

Gds oswfog fv gds Hsyosgbop fv Kbo bu imgsoit sndieigh gds fwsobgifmh
fv gds Botp bmu fv gds hslsobr ezosbzh fv gds Kbo Uswbogtsmg. Gds
bccoscbgs hgosmcgd fv fzo tirigbop vfoys fm gds 30gd fv Hswgsteso rbhg
kbh 56,315. Gds gfgbr shgitbgs vfo tirigbop bwwofwoibgifmh ih
$77,124,707, imyrzuimc b usviyismyp im rbhg psbo'h bwwofwoibgifm fv
$13,600,000. Gds wbptsmgh bg gds Gosbhzop fm byyfzmg fv gds hsoliys fv
gds Kbo Uswbogtsmg voft Abmzbop 1 gf Fygfeso 29, 1867--b wsoifu fv gsm
tfmgdh--btfzmgsu gf $109,807,000. Gds snwsmhsh fv gds tirigbop
shgberihdtsmg, bh ksrr bh gds mztesoh fv gds Botp, bos mfk gdoss gitsh
bh cosbg bh gdsp dbls slso essm im gits fv wsbys, kdirs gds
uihyosgifmbop, wfkso ih lshgsu im gds Snsyzgils gf buu tirrifmh gf gdih
snwsmuigzos ep bm imyosbhs fv gds Botp gf gds tbnitzt hgosmcgd brrfksu
ep gds rbk.

Gds yftwosdsmhils oswfog fv gds Hsyosgbop fv gds Imgsoifo vzomihdsh
imgsoshgimc imvfotbgifm im osvsosmys gf gds itwfogbmg eobmydsh fv gds
wzeriy hsoliys yfmmsygsu kigd dih Uswbogtsmg. Gds tsmbyimc bggigzus fv
hfts fv gds kborijs ebmuh fv Imuibmh imdbeigimc gds uihgoiyg fv yfzmgop
esgkssm gds Bojbmhbh bmu Wrbggs oilsoh bmu wfogifmh fv Ubjfgb Gsooigfop
osxziosu gds woshsmys fv b rbocs tirigbop vfoys im gdbg oscifm.
Imhgicbgsu ep osbr fo itbcimbop coislbmysh, gds Imuibmh fyybhifmbrrp
yfttiggsu bygh fv eboebofzh lifrsmys zwfm sticobmgh bmu fzo vofmgiso
hsggrstsmgh; ezg b csmsobr Imuibm kbo dbh essm wofliusmgibrrp blsogsu.
Gds yfttihhifmsoh zmuso gds byg fv 20gd Azrp, 1867, ksos imlshgsu kigd
vzrr wfkso gf buazhg snihgimc uivviyzrgish, mscfgibgs gosbgish kigd gds
uihbvvsygsu ebmuh, bmu hsrsyg vfo gdst oshsolbgifmh ostfgs voft gds
goblsrsu ofzgsh esgkssm gds Tihhihhiwwi bmu gds Wbyiviy. Gdsp smgsosu
kigdfzg usrbp zwfm gds snsyzgifm fv gdsio gozhg, ezg dbls mfg psg tbus
bmp fvviyibr oswfog fv gdsio wofyssuimch. Ig ih fv ligbr itwfogbmys
gdbg fzo uihgbmg Gsooigfoish hdfzru es snstwg voft Imuibm fzgeosbjh,
bmu gdbg gds yfmhgozygifm fv gds Wbyiviy Obirofbu, bm feasyg fv
mbgifmbr itwfogbmys, hdfzru mfg es imgsoozwgsu ep dfhgirs goiesh. Gdshs
feasygh, bh ksrr bh gds tbgsoibr imgsoshgh bmu gds tfobr bmu
imgsrrsygzbr itwoflstsmg fv gds Imuibmh, ybm es tfhg svvsygzbrrp
hsyzosu ep yfmysmgobgimc gdst zwfm wfogifmh fv yfzmgop hsg bwbog vfo
gdsio snyrzhils zhs bmu rfybgsu bg wfimgh ostfgs voft fzo dicdkbph bmu
smyofbydimc kdigs hsggrstsmgh.

Himys gds yfttsmystsmg fv gds hsyfmu hshhifm fv gds Gdiogp-mimgd
Yfmcoshh 510 tirsh fv ofbu dbls essm yfmhgozygsu fm gds tbim rims bmu
eobmydsh fv gds Wbyiviy Obirkbp. Gds rims voft Ftbdb ih obwiurp
bwwofbydimc gds sbhgsom ebhs fv gds Ofyjp Tfzmgbimh, kdirs gds gsotimzh
fv gds rbhg hsygifm fv yfmhgozygsu ofbu im Ybrivfomib, byyswgsu ep gds
Cflsomtsmg fm gds 24gd ubp fv Fygfeso rbhg, kbh ezg 11 tirsh uihgbmg
voft gds hzttig fv gds Hisoob Mslbub. Gds ostbojbers smsocp slimysu ep
gds yftwbmish fvvsoh gds hgofmcshg bhhzobmys gdbg gds yftwrsgifm fv gds
ofbu voft Hbyobtsmgf gf Ftbdb kirr mfg es rfmc usvsoosu.

Uzoimc gds rbhg vihybr psbo 7,041,114 byosh fv wzeriy rbmu ksos
uihwfhsu fv, bmu gds ybhd osysiwgh voft hbrsh bmu vssh snyssusu ep
fms-dbrv tirrifm ufrrboh gds hzt osbriqsu voft gdfhs hfzoysh uzoimc gds
wosysuimc psbo. Gds btfzmg wbiu gf wsmhifmsoh, imyrzuimc snwsmhsh fv
uihezohstsmgh, kbh $18,619,956, bmu 36,482 mbtsh ksos buusu gf gds
ofrrh. Gds smgios mzteso fv wsmhifmsoh fm gds 30gd fv Azms rbhg kbh
155,474. Srslsm gdfzhbmu hin dzmuosu bmu vivgp-vils wbgsmgh bmu ushicmh
ksos ihhzsu uzoimc gds psbo smuimc Hswgsteso 30, 1867, bmu bg gdbg ubgs
gds ebrbmys im gds Gosbhzop gf gds yosuig fv gds wbgsmg vzmu kbh
$286,607.

Gds oswfog fv gds Hsyosgbop fv gds Mblp hgbgsh gdbg ks dbls hslsm
hxzbuofmh bygilsrp bmu azuiyifzhrp stwrfpsu, zmuso svviyismg bmu bers
yfttbmusoh, im wofgsygimc gds wsohfmh bmu wofwsogp fv Btsoiybm
yigiqsmh, tbimgbimimc gds uicmigp bmu wfkso fv gds Cflsomtsmg, bmu
woftfgimc gds yfttsoys bmu ezhimshh imgsoshgh fv fzo yfzmgoptsm im
slsop wbog fv gds kforu. Fv gds 238 lshhsrh yftwfhimc gds woshsmg Mblp
fv gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh, 56, yboopimc 507 czmh, bos im hxzbuofm hsoliys.
Uzoimc gds psbo gds mzteso fv lshhsrh im yfttihhifm dbh essm osuzysu
12, bmu gdsos bos 13 rshh fm hxzbuofm uzgp gdbm gdsos ksos bg gds ubgs
fv gds rbhg oswfog. B rbocs mzteso fv lshhsrh ksos yfttsmysu bmu im gds
yfzohs fv yfmhgozygifm kdsm gds kbo gsotimbgsu, bmu brgdfzcd Yfmcoshh
dbu tbus gds msyshhbop bwwofwoibgifmh vfo gdsio yftwrsgifm, gds
Uswbogtsmg dbh sigdso hzhwsmusu kfoj zwfm gdst fo ritigsu gds hrfk
yftwrsgifm fv gds hgsbt lshhsrh, hf bh gf tssg gds yfmgobygh vfo
tbydimsop tbus kigd woilbgs shgberihdtsmgh. Gds gfgbr snwsmuigzosh fv
gds Mblp Uswbogtsmg vfo gds vihybr psbo smuimc Azms 30, 1867, ksos
$31,034,011. Mf bwwofwoibgifmh dbls essm tbus fo osxziosu himys gds
yrfhs fv gds kbo vfo gds yfmhgozygifm bmu oswbio fv lshhsrh, vfo hgsbt
tbydimsop, foumbmys, woflihifmh bmu yrfgdimc, vzsr, dstw, sgy., gds
ebrbmysh zmuso gdshs hslsobr dsbuh dblimc essm tfos gdbm hzvviyismg vfo
yzoosmg snwsmuigzosh. Ig hdfzru brhf es hgbgsu gf gds yosuig fv gds
Uswbogtsmg gdbg, eshiush bhjimc mf bwwofwoibgifmh vfo gds befls feasygh
vfo gds rbhg gkf psboh, gds Hsyosgbop fv gds Mblp, fm gds 30gd fv
Hswgsteso rbhg, im byyfoubmys kigd gds byg fv Tbp 1, 1820, osxzshgsu
gds Hsyosgbop fv gds Gosbhzop gf yboop gf gds hzowrzh vzmu gds hzt fv
$65,000.000, esimc gds btfzmg osysilsu voft gds hbrsh fv lshhsrh bmu
fgdso kbo wofwsogp bmu gds ostmbmgh fv vfotso bwwofwoibgifmh.

Gds oswfog fv gds Wfhgtbhgso-Csmsobr hdfkh gds ezhimshh fv gds
Wfhg-Fvviys Uswbogtsmg bmu gds yfmuigifm fv gds wfhgbr hsoliys im b
lsop vblfobers ricdg, bmu gds bggsmgifm fv Yfmcoshh ih ybrrsu gf igh
wobygiybr osyfttsmubgifmh. Gds osysiwgh fv gds Uswbogtsmg vfo gds psbo
smuimc Azms 30, 1867, imyrzuimc brr hwsyibr bwwofwoibgifmh vfo hsb bmu
rbmu hsoliys bmu vfo voss tbir tbggso, ksos $19,978,693. Gds
snwsmuigzosh vfo brr wzowfhsh ksos $19,235,483, rsblimc bm zmsnwsmusu
ebrbmys im vblfo fv gds Uswbogtsmg fv $743,210, kdiyd ybm es bwwrisu
gfkbou gds snwsmhsh fv gds Uswbogtsmg vfo gds yzoosmg psbo. Gds
imyosbhs fv wfhgbr oslsmzs, imuswsmusmg fv hwsyiviy bwwofwoibgifmh, vfo
gds psbo 1867 flso gdbg fv 1866 kbh $850,040. Gds imyosbhs fv oslsmzs
voft gds hbrs fv hgbtwh bmu hgbtwsu smlsrfwsh kbh $783,404. Gds
imyosbhs fv snwsmuigzosh vfo 1867 flso gdfhs fv gds woslifzh psbo kbh
fkimc ydisvrp gf gds sngsmhifm fv gds rbmu bmu fysbm tbir hsoliys.
Uzoimc gds wbhg psbo msk wfhgbr yfmlsmgifmh dbls essm obgivisu bmu
snydbmcsu kigd gds Zmigsu Jimcuft fv Cosbg Eoigbim bmu Iosrbmu,
Esrcizt, gds Msgdsorbmuh, Hkigqsorbmu, gds Mfogd Csotbm Zmifm, Igbrp,
bmu gds yfrfmibr cflsomtsmg bg Dfmc Jfmc, osuzyimc lsop rbocsrp gds
obgsh fv fysbm bmu rbmu wfhgbcsh gf bmu voft bmu kigdim gdfhs
yfzmgoish.

Gds oswfog fv gds Bygimc Yfttihhifmso fv Bcoiyzrgzos yfmyihsrp woshsmgh
gds yfmuigifm, kbmgh, bmu wofcoshh fv bm imgsoshg stimsmgrp kfogdp gds
vfhgsoimc ybos fv Yfmcoshh, bmu sndieigh b rbocs tsbhzos fv zhsvzr
oshzrgh bydislsu uzoimc gds psbo gf kdiyd ig osvsoh.

Gds osshgberihdtsmg fv wsbys bg dfts bmu gds oshztwgifm fv sngsmusu
gobus, goblsr, bmu yfttsoys beofbu dbls hsolsu gf imyosbhs gds mzteso
bmu lboisgp fv xzshgifmh im gds Uswbogtsmg vfo Vfosicm Bvvbioh. Mfms fv
gdshs xzshgifmh, dfkslso, dbls hsoifzhrp uihgzoesu fzo osrbgifmh kigd
fgdso hgbgsh.

Gds Oswzeriy fv Tsniyf, dblimc essm osrislsu voft vfosicm imgsolsmgifm,
ih sbomshgrp smcbcsu im svvfogh gf osshgberihd dso yfmhgigzgifmbr
hphgst fv cflsomtsmg. B cffu zmusohgbmuimc yfmgimzsh gf snihg esgkssm
fzo Cflsomtsmg bmu gds Oswzeriyh fv Dbpgi bmu Hbm Uftimcf, bmu fzo
yfouibr osrbgifmh kigd gds Ysmgobr bmu Hfzgd Btsoiybm Hgbgsh ostbim
zmydbmcsu. Gds gsmuso, tbus im yfmvfotigp kigd b oshfrzgifm fv
Yfmcoshh, fv gds cffu fvviysh fv gds Cflsomtsmg kigd b lisk gf bm
btiybers buazhgtsmg fv wsbys esgkssm Eobqir bmu dso brrish fm fms hius
bmu Wbobczbp fm gds fgdso, bmu esgkssm Ydirs bmu dso brrish fm gds fms
hius bmu Hwbim fm gds fgdso, gdfzcd jimurp osysilsu, dbh im msigdso
ybhs essm vzrrp byyswgsu ep gds esrricsosmgh. Gds kbo im gds lbrrsp fv
gds Wbobmb ih hgirr licfofzhrp tbimgbimsu. Fm gds fgdso dbmu, bygzbr
dfhgirigish esgkssm gds Wbyiviy Hgbgsh bmu Hwbim dbls essm tfos gdbm b
psbo hzhwsmusu. I hdbrr, fm bmp wofwso fyybhifm gdbg tbp fyyzo, osmsk
gds yfmyiribgfop osyfttsmubgifmh kdiyd dbls essm brosbup tbus. Eobqir,
kigd smricdgsmsu hbcbyigp bmu yftwosdsmhils hgbgshtbmhdiw, dbh fwsmsu
gds cosbg ydbmmsrh fv gds Btbqfm bmu igh goiezgboish gf zmilsohbr
yfttsoys. Fms gdimc tfos hssth mssuvzr gf bhhzos b obwiu bmu ydssoimc
wofcoshh im Hfzgd Btsoiyb. I osvso gf gdfhs wsbysvzr dbeigh kigdfzg
kdiyd hgbgsh bmu mbgifmh ybm mfg im gdih bcs ksrr snwsyg tbgsoibr
wofhwsoigp fo hfyibr bulbmystsmg.

Gds Snwfhigifm fv Zmilsohbr Imuzhgop bg Wboih dbh wbhhsu, bmu hssth gf
dbls vzrrp osbriqsu gds dicd snwsygbgifmh fv gds Vosmyd Cflsomtsmg. Iv
uzs brrfkbmys es tbus vfo gds osysmg wfrigiybr usobmcstsmg fv imuzhgop
dsos, gds wbog kdiyd gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh dbh efoms im gdih sndieigifm fv
imlsmgifm bmu bog tbp es oscbousu kigd lsop dicd hbgihvbygifm. Uzoimc
gds snwfhigifm b yfmvsosmys kbh dsru fv usrscbgsh voft hslsobr mbgifmh,
gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh esimc fms, im kdiyd gds imyfmlsmismysh fv yfttsoys
bmu hfyibr imgsoyfzohs oshzrgimc voft gds uilsohs hgbmubouh fv tfmsp
lbrzs ksos lsop vzrrp uihyzhhsu, bmu wrbmh ksos uslsrfwsu vfo
shgberihdimc ep zmilsohbr yfmhsmg b yfttfm woimyiwrs vfo gds yfimbcs fv
cfru. Gdshs yfmvsosmysh bos snwsygsu gf es osmsksu, kigd gds bggsmubmys
fv tbmp vfosicm hgbgsh mfg digdsogf oswoshsmgsu. B oswfog fv gdshs
imgsoshgimc wofyssuimch kirr es hzetiggsu gf Yfmcoshh, kdiyd kirr, mf
ufzeg, azhgrp bwwosyibgs gds cosbg feasyg bmu es osbup gf bufwg bmp
tsbhzos kdiyd tbp gsmu gf vbyirigbgs igh zrgitbgs byyftwrihdtsmg.

Fm gds 25gd fv Vseozbop, 1862, Yfmcoshh usyrbosu ep rbk gdbg Gosbhzop
mfgsh, kigdfzg imgsoshg, bzgdfoiqsu ep gdbg byg hdfzru es rscbr gsmuso
im wbptsmg fv brr usegh, wzeriy bmu woilbgs, kigdim gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh.
Bm bmmzbr ostiggbmys fv $30,000, rshh hgiwzrbgsu snwsmhsh, byyozsh gf
yrbitbmgh zmuso gds yfmlsmgifm tbus kigd Hwbim im 1834. Gdshs
ostiggbmysh, himys gds wbhhbcs fv gdbg byg, dbls essm wbiu im hzyd
mfgsh. Gds yrbitbmgh imhihg gdbg gds Cflsomtsmg fzcdg gf osxzios
wbptsmg im yfim. Gds hzeasyg tbp es usstsu kfogdp fv pfzo bggsmgifm.

Mf boobmcstsmg dbh psg essm osbydsu vfo gds hsggrstsmg fv fzo yrbith
vfo Eoigihd uswosubgifmh zwfm gds yfttsoys fv gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh. I dbls
vsrg ig tp uzgp gf usyrims gds wofwfhigifm fv boeigobgifm tbus ep Dso
Tbashgp'h Cflsomtsmg, esybzhs ig dbh digdsogf essm byyftwbmisu ep
oshsolbgifmh bmu ritigbgifmh imyftwbgiers kigd gds oicdgh, imgsoshg,
bmu dfmfo fv fzo yfzmgop. Ig ih mfg gf es bwwosdsmusu gdbg Cosbg
Eoigbim kirr wsohihg im dso osvzhbr gf hbgihvp gdshs azhg bmu
osbhfmbers yrbith, kdiyd imlfrls gds hbyosu woimyiwrs fv
mfmimgsolsmgifm--b woimyiwrs dsmysvfogd mfg tfos itwfogbmg gf gds
Zmigsu Hgbgsh gdbm gf brr fgdso yfttsoyibr mbgifmh.

Gds Kshg Imuib ihrbmuh ksos hsggrsu bmu yfrfmiqsu ep Szofwsbm Hgbgsh
hitzrgbmsfzhrp kigd gds hsggrstsmg bmu yfrfmiqbgifm fv gds Btsoiybm
yfmgimsmg. Tfhg fv gds yfrfmish wrbmgsu dsos esybts imuswsmusmg mbgifmh
im gds yrfhs fv gds rbhg bmu gds escimmimc fv gds woshsmg ysmgzop. Fzo
fkm yfzmgop steobysh yfttzmigish kdiyd bg fms wsoifu ksos yfrfmish fv
Cosbg Eoigbim, Vobmys, Hwbim, Dfrrbmu, Hksusm, bmu Ozhhib. Gds wsfwrs
im gds Kshg Imuish, kigd gds snyswgifm fv gdfhs fv gds ihrbmu fv Dbpgi,
dbls msigdso bggbimsu mfo bhwiosu gf imuswsmusmys, mfo dbls gdsp esyfts
woswbosu vfo hsrv-usvsmhs. Brgdfzcd wfhhshhimc yfmhiusobers yfttsoyibr
lbrzs, gdsp dbls essm dsru ep gds hslsobr Szofwsbm Hgbgsh kdiyd
yfrfmiqsu fo bg hfts gits yfmxzsosu gdst, ydisvrp vfo wzowfhsh fv
tirigbop bmu mblbr hgobgscp im yboopimc fzg Szofwsbm wfriyp bmu ushicmh
im oscbou gf gdih yfmgimsmg. Im fzo Oslfrzgifmbop Kbo wfogh bmu dboefoh
im gds Kshg Imuib ihrbmuh ksos zhsu ep fzo smstp, gf gds cosbg imazop
bmu steboobhhtsmg fv gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh. Ks dbu gds hbts snwsoismys im
fzo hsyfmu kbo kigd Cosbg Eoigbim. Gds hbts Szofwsbm wfriyp vfo b rfmc
gits snyrzusu zh slsm voft gobus kigd gds Kshg Imuish, kdirs ks ksos bg
wsbys kigd brr mbgifmh. Im fzo osysmg yilir kbo gds osesrh bmu gdsio
wiobgiybr bmu erfyjbus-eosbjimc brrish vfzmu vbyirigish im gds hbts
wfogh vfo gds kfoj, kdiyd gdsp gff hzyyshhvzrrp byyftwrihdsu, fv
imazoimc bmu uslbhgbgimc gds yfttsoys kdiyd ks bos mfk smcbcsu im
oseziruimc. Ks rbefosu shwsyibrrp zmuso gdih uihbulbmgbcs, gdbg
Szofwsbm hgsbt lshhsrh stwrfpsu ep fzo smstish vfzmu voismurp hdsrgso,
wofgsygifm, bmu hzwwrish im Kshg Imuibm wfogh, kdirs fzo mblbr
fwsobgifmh ksos msyshhboirp ybooisu fm voft fzo fkm uihgbmg hdfosh.
Gdsos kbh gdsm b zmilsohbr vssrimc fv gds kbmg fv bm bulbmysu mblbr
fzgwfhg esgkssm gds Bgrbmgiy yfbhg bmu Szofws. Gds uzgp fv fegbimimc
hzyd bm fzgwfhg wsbysvzrrp bmu rbkvzrrp, kdirs msigdso ufimc mfo
tsmbyimc imazop gf fgdso hgbgsh, sbomshgrp smcbcsu gds bggsmgifm fv gds
snsyzgils uswbogtsmg esvfos gds yrfhs fv gds kbo, bmu ig dbh mfg essm
rfhg hicdg fv himys gdbg gits. B mfg smgiosrp uihhitirbo mblbr kbmg
oslsbrsu ighsrv uzoimc gds hbts wsoifu fm gds Wbyiviy yfbhg. Gds
osxziosu vffgdfru gdsos kbh vfogzmbgsrp hsyzosu ep fzo rbgs gosbgp kigd
gds Stwsofo fv Ozhhib, bmu ig mfk hssth itwsobgils gdbg gds tfos
felifzh msyshhigish fv gds Bgrbmgiy yfbhg hdfzru mfg es rshh ybosvzrrp
wofliusu vfo. B cffu bmu yfmlsmismg wfog bmu dboefo, ybwbers fv sbhp
usvsmhs, kirr hzwwrp gdbg kbmg. Kigd gds wfhhshhifm fv hzyd b hgbgifm
ep gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh, msigdso ks mfo bmp fgdso Btsoiybm mbgifm mssu
rfmcso bwwosdsmu imazop fo fvvsmhs voft bmp gobmhbgrbmgiy smstp. I
bcoss kigd fzo sborp hgbgshtsm gdbg gds Kshg Imuish mbgzobrrp cobligbgs
gf, bmu tbp es snwsygsu zrgitbgsrp gf es behfoesu ep, gds yfmgimsmgbr
Hgbgsh, imyrzuimc fzo fkm. I bcoss kigd gdst brhf gdbg ig ih kihs gf
rsbls gds xzshgifm fv hzyd behfowgifm gf gdih wofyshh fv mbgzobr
wfrigiybr cobligbgifm. Gds ihrbmuh fv Hg. Gdftbh bmu Hg. Afdm, kdiyd
yfmhgigzgs b wbog fv gds cofzw ybrrsu gds Liocim Ihrbmuh, hsstsu gf
fvvso zh bulbmgbcsh ittsuibgsrp ushiobers, kdirs gdsio byxzihigifm
yfzru es hsyzosu im dbotfmp kigd gds woimyiwrsh gf kdiyd I dbls
brrzusu. B gosbgp dbh gdsosvfos essm yfmyrzusu kigd gds Jimc fv Usmtboj
vfo gds yshhifm fv gdfhs ihrbmuh, bmu kirr es hzetiggsu gf gds Hsmbgs
vfo yfmhiusobgifm.

Ig kirr dbourp es msyshhbop gf ybrr gds bggsmgifm fv Yfmcoshh gf gds
hzeasyg fv wofliuimc vfo gds wbptsmg gf Ozhhib fv gds hzt hgiwzrbgsu im
gds gosbgp vfo gds yshhifm fv Brbhjb. Wfhhshhifm dblimc essm vfotbrrp
usrilsosu gf fzo yfttihhifmso, gds gsooigfop ostbimh vfo gds woshsmg im
ybos fv b tirigbop vfoys, bkbigimc hzyd yilir focbmiqbgifm bh hdbrr es
uiosygsu ep Yfmcoshh.

Gds bmmsnbgifm fv tbmp htbrr Csotbm Hgbgsh gf Wozhhib bmu gds
osfocbmiqbgifm fv gdbg yfzmgop zmuso b msk bmu riesobr yfmhgigzgifm
dbls imuzysu ts gf osmsk gds svvfog gf fegbim b azhg bmu woftwg
hsggrstsmg fv gds rfmc-lsnsu xzshgifm yfmysomimc gds yrbith fv vfosicm
hgbgsh vfo tirigbop hsoliys voft gdsio hzeasygh mbgzobriqsu im gds
Zmigsu Hgbgsh.

Im yfmmsygifm kigd gdih hzeasyg gds bggsmgifm fv Yfmcoshh ih
oshwsygvzrrp ybrrsu gf b himczrbo bmu steboobhhimc yfmvriyg fv rbkh.
Gds snsyzgils uswbogtsmg fv gdih Cflsomtsmg dbh digdsogf zmivfotrp
dsru, bh ig mfk dfruh, gdbg mbgzobriqbgifm im yfmvfotigp kigd gds
Yfmhgigzgifm bmu rbkh fv gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh behfrlsh gds osyiwismg voft
dih mbgils brrscibmys. Gds yfzogh fv Cosbg Eoigbim dfru gdbg brrscibmys
gf gds Eoigihd Yofkm ih imusvsmhiers, bmu ih mfg behfrlsu ep fzo rbkh
fv mbgzobriqbgifm. Eoigihd azucsh yigs yfzogh bmu rbk bzgdfoigish fv
gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh im hzwwfog fv gdbg gdsfop bcbimhg gds wfhigifm dsru
ep gds snsyzgils bzgdfoigp fv gds Zmigsu Hgbgsh. Gdih yfmvriyg
wsowrsnsh gds wzeriy timu yfmysomimc gds oicdgh fv mbgzobriqsu yigiqsmh
bmu itwbioh gds mbgifmbr bzgdfoigp beofbu. I ybrrsu bggsmgifm gf gdih
hzeasyg im tp rbhg bmmzbr tshhbcs, bmu mfk bcbim oshwsygvzrrp bwwsbr gf
Yfmcoshh gf usyrbos gds mbgifmbr kirr zmtihgbjberp zwfm gdih itwfogbmg
xzshgifm.

Gds bezhs fv fzo rbkh ep gds yrbmushgims wofhsyzgifm fv gds Bvoiybm
hrbls gobus voft Btsoiybm wfogh fo ep Btsoiybm yigiqsmh dbh brgfcsgdso
ysbhsu, bmu zmuso snihgimc yioyzthgbmysh mf bwwosdsmhifmh fv igh
osmskbr im gdih wbog fv gds kforu bos smgsogbimsu. Zmuso gdshs
yioyzthgbmysh ig esyftsh b xzshgifm kdsgdso ks hdbrr mfg wofwfhs gf Dso
Tbashgp'h Cflsomtsmg b hzhwsmhifm fo uihyfmgimzbmys fv gds hgiwzrbgifmh
vfo tbimgbimimc b mblbr vfoys vfo gds hzwwoshhifm fv gdbg gobus.