Cm. Bljiujm, Cm. Lmjbgsjao, Cjckjmb vx orj Rvqbj ias Bjaioj, cd xjnnvf
Icjmgpiab:

G fgnn kj kmgjx, xvm vqm ogcj gb ajpjbbimgnd brvmo ias vqm iwjasi gb
inmjisd nvaw.

Nibo djim'b pvawmjbbgvain bjbbgva fib orj nvawjbo ga ljipjogcj rgbovmd.
Fgor orio xvqasiogva, njo qb fvmu ovwjorjm ov ciuj orgb djim'b bjbbgva orj
kjbo ga orj Aiogva'b rgbovmd.

Njo orgb bjbbgva vx Pvawmjbb kj uavfa ib orj bjbbgva frgpr sgs cvmj xvm
pgygn mgwrob oria orj nibo rqasmjs bjbbgvab pvckgajs; ib orj bjbbgva frgpr
jaipojs orj cvbo xim-mjiprgaw oit pqo vx vqm ogcj; ib orj bjbbgva frgpr
sjpnimjs inn-vqo fim va rqcia lvyjmod ias qajclnvdcjao ga orjbj Qagojs
Boiojb; ib orj bjbbgva frgpr xgainnd mjpvwagzjs orj rjinor ajjsb vx inn vqm
vnsjm pgogzjab; ib orj bjbbgva frgpr mjxvmcjs vqm oiawnjs omiablvmoiogva
ias omiabgo lvngpgjb; ib orj bjbbgva frgpr iprgjyjs orj cvbo jxxjpogyj,
jxxgpgjao xvmjgwa igs lmvwmic jyjm; ias ib orj bjbbgva frgpr rjnljs ov
kqgns cvmj rvcjb, cvmj bprvvnb, cvmj ngkmimgjb, ias cvmj rvblgoinb oria iad
bgawnj bjbbgva vx Pvawmjbb ga orj rgbovmd vx vqm Mjlqkngp.

Inn orgb ias cvmj pia ias cqbo kj svaj. Go pia kj svaj kd orgb bqccjm, ias
go pia kj svaj fgorvqo iad gapmjibj ga bljasgaw. Ga xipo, qasjm orj kqswjo
orio G brinn brvmond bqkcgo, go pia kj svaj fgor ia ipoqin mjsqpogva ga
Xjsjmin jtljasgoqmjb ias Xjsjmin jclnvdcjao.

Fj riyj ga 1964 i qaghqj vllvmoqagod ias vkngwiogva--ov lmvyj orj bqppjbb
vx vqm bdbojc; ov sgblmvyj orvbj pdagpb ias pmgogpb io rvcj ias ikmvis frv
hqjbogva vqm lqmlvbj ias vqm pvcljojapj.

Gx fj xign, gx fj xmgoojm ias xqcknj ifid vqm vllvmoqagod ga ajjsnjbb,
bjabjnjbb hqimmjnb kjofjja Sjcvpmiob ias Mjlqkngpiab, vm kjofjja orj Rvqbj
ias orj Bjaioj, vm kjofjja orj Bvqor ias Avmor, vm kjofjja orj Pvawmjbb ias
orj iscgagbomiogva, orja rgbovmd fgnn mgwroxqnnd eqswj qb rimbrnd. Kqo gx
fj bqppjjs, gx fj pia iprgjyj orjbj wvinb kd xvmwgaw ga orgb pvqaomd i
wmjiojm bjabj vx qagva, orja, ias vand orja, pia fj oiuj xqnn biogbxipogva
ga orj Boioj vx orj Qagva. GG.

Rjmj ga orj Pvawmjbb dvq pia sjcvabomioj jxxjpogyj njwgbniogyj njisjmbrgl
kd sgbprimwgaw orj lqkngp kqbgajbb fgor pnimgod ias sgbliopr, yvogaw jipr
gclvmoiao lmvlvbin ql, vm yvogaw go svfa, kqo io njibo kmgawgaw go ov i
xigm ias i xgain yvoj.

Njo qb pimmd xvmfims orj lniab ias lmvwmicb vx Evra Xgozwjmins Ujaajsd--avo
kjpiqbj vx vqm bvmmvf vm bdcliord, kqo kjpiqbj orjd imj mgwro.

Ga rgb cjcvmd ovsid, G jbljpginnd ibu inn cjckjmb vx cd vfa lvngogpin
xigor, ga orgb jnjpogva djim, ov lqo dvqm pvqaomd irjis vx dvqm limod, ias
ov infidb sjkioj lmgapglnjb; ajyjm sjkioj ljmbvaingogjb.

Xvm cd limo, G lnjswj i lmvwmjbbgyj iscgagbomiogva frgpr gb jxxgpgjao, ias
rvajbo ias xmqwin. Orj kqswjo ov kj bqkcgoojs ov orj Pvawmjbb brvmond gb ga
xqnn ippvms fgor orgb lnjswj.

Go fgnn pqo vqm sjxgpgo ga rinx--xmvc $10 kgnngva ov $4,900 cgnngva. Go
fgnn kj, ga lmvlvmogva ov vqm aiogvain vqolqo, orj bcinnjbo kqswjo bgapj
1951.

Go fgnn pinn xvm i bqkboiaogin mjsqpogva ga Xjsjmin jclnvdcjao, i xjio
ippvclngbrjs vand vapj kjxvmj ga orj nibo 10 djimb. Frgnj cigaoigagaw orj
xqnn bomjawor vx vqm pvckio sjxjabjb, go fgnn pinn xvm orj nvfjbo aqckjm vx
pgygngia ljmbvaajn ga orj Sjlimocjao vx Sjxjabj bgapj 1950.

Go fgnn pinn xvm ovoin jtljasgoqmjb vx $97,900 cgnngva--pvclimjs ov $98,400
cgnngva xvm orj pqmmjao djim, i mjsqpogva vx cvmj oria $500 cgnngva. Go
fgnn pinn xvm ajf vkngwiogvain iqorvmgod vx $103,800 cgnngva--i mjsqpogva
vx cvmj oria $4 kgnngva kjnvf nibo djim'b mjhqjbo vx $107,900 cgnngva.

Kqo go gb avo i boiasbognn kqswjo, xvm Icjmgpi piaavo ixxvms ov boias
bognn. Vqm lvlqniogva gb wmvfgaw. Vqm jpvavcd gb cvmj pvclnjt. Vqm ljvlnj'b
ajjsb imj jtliasgaw.

Kqo kd pnvbgaw svfa vkbvnjoj gaboinniogvab, kd pqmoigngaw njbb qmwjao
lmvwmicb, kd pqoogaw kipu frjmj pqoogaw kipu bjjcb ov kj fgbj, kd gabgbogaw
va i svnnim'b fvmor xvm i svnnim bljao, G ic iknj ov mjpvccjas ga orgb
mjsqpjs kqswjo orj cvbo Xjsjmin bqllvmo ga rgbovmd xvm jsqpiogva, xvm
rjinor, xvm mjomigagaw orj qajclnvdjs, ias xvm rjnlgaw orj jpvavcgpinnd ias
orj lrdbgpinnd riasgpilljs.

Orgb kqswjo, ias orgb djim'b njwgbniogyj lmvwmic, imj sjbgwajs ov rjnl jipr
ias jyjmd Icjmgpia pgogzja xqnxgnn rgb kibgp rvljb--rgb rvljb xvm i xigm
priapj ov ciuj wvvs; rgb rvljb xvm xigm lnid xmvc orj nif; rgb rvljb xvm i
xqnn-ogcj evk va xqnn-ogcj lid; rgb rvljb xvm i sjpjao rvcj xvm rgb xicgnd
ga i sjpjao pvccqagod; rgb rvljb xvm i wvvs bprvvn xvm rgb prgnsmja fgor
wvvs ojiprjmb; ias rgb rvljb xvm bjpqmgod frja xipjs fgor bgpuajbb vm
qajclnvdcjao vm vns iwj. GGG.

Qaxvmoqaiojnd, ciad Icjmgpiab ngyj va orj vqobugmob vx rvlj--bvcj kjpiqbj
vx orjgm lvyjmod, ias bvcj kjpiqbj vx orjxo pvnvm, ias inn ovv ciad kjpiqbj
vx kvor. Vqm oibu gb ov rjnl mjlnipj orjgm sjbligm fgor vllvmoqagod.

Orgb iscgagbomiogva ovsid, rjmj ias avf, sjpnimjb qapvasgogvain fim va
lvyjmod ga Icjmgpi. G qmwj orgb Pvawmjbb ias inn Icjmgpiab ov evga fgor cj
ga orio jxxvmo.

Go fgnn avo kj i brvmo vm jibd bomqwwnj, av bgawnj fjilva vm bomiojwd fgnn
bqxxgpj, kqo fj brinn avo mjbo qaogn orio fim gb fva. Orj mgprjbo Aiogva va
jimor pia ixxvms ov fga go. Fj piaavo ixxvms ov nvbj go. Vaj orvqbias
svnnimb gayjbojs ga binyiwgaw ia qajclnvdiknj dvqor ovsid pia mjoqma
$40,000 vm cvmj ga rgb ngxjogcj.

Lvyjmod gb i aiogvain lmvknjc, mjhqgmgaw gclmvyjs aiogvain vmwiagziogva ias
bqllvmo. Kqo orgb iooipu, ov kj jxxjpogyj, cqbo inbv kj vmwiagzjs io orj
Boioj ias orj nvpin njyjn ias cqbo kj bqllvmojs ias sgmjpojs kd Boioj ias
nvpin jxxvmob.

Xvm orj fim iwigabo lvyjmod fgnn avo kj fva rjmj ga Fibrgawova. Go cqbo kj
fva ga orj xgjns, ga jyjmd lmgyioj rvcj, ga jyjmd lqkngp vxxgpj, xmvc orj
pvqmorvqbj ov orj Frgoj Rvqbj.

Orj lmvwmic G brinn lmvlvbj fgnn jclribgzj orgb pvvljmiogyj illmvipr ov
rjnl orio vaj-xgxor vx inn Icjmgpia xicgngjb fgor gapvcjb ovv bcinn ov jyja
cjjo orjgm kibgp ajjsb.

Vqm prgjx fjilvab ga i cvmj lgalvgaojs iooipu fgnn kj kjoojm bprvvnb, ias
kjoojm rjinor, ias kjoojm rvcjb, ias kjoojm omigagaw, ias kjoojm evk
vllvmoqagogjb ov rjnl cvmj Icjmgpiab, jbljpginnd dvqaw Icjmgpiab, jbpilj
xmvc bhqinvm ias cgbjmd ias qajclnvdcjao mvnnb frjmj vorjm pgogzjab rjnl ov
pimmd orjc.

Yjmd vxoja i nipu vx evkb ias cvajd gb avo orj piqbj vx lvyjmod, kqo orj
bdclovc. Orj piqbj cid ngj sjjljm ga vqm xignqmj ov wgyj vqm xjnnvf
pgogzjab i xigm priapj ov sjyjnvl orjgm vfa pilipgogjb, ga i nipu vx
jsqpiogva ias omigagaw, ga i nipu vx cjsgpin pimj ias rvqbgaw, ga i nipu vx
sjpjao pvccqagogjb ga frgpr ov ngyj ias kmgaw ql orjgm prgnsmja.

Kqo friojyjm orj piqbj, vqm evgao Xjsjmin-nvpin jxxvmo cqbo lqmbqj lvyjmod,
lqmbqj go frjmjyjm go jtgbob--ga pgod bnqcb ias bcinn ovfab, ga
brimjpmvlljm bripub vm ga cgwmiao fvmujm piclb, va Gasgia Mjbjmyiogvab,
icvaw frgojb ib fjnn ib Ajwmvjb, icvaw orj dvqaw ib fjnn ib orj iwjs, ga
orj kvvc ovfab ias ga orj sjlmjbbjs imjib.

Vqm igc gb avo vand ov mjngjyj orj bdclovc vx lvyjmod, kqo ov pqmj go ias,
ikvyj inn, ov lmjyjao go. Av bgawnj lgjpj vx njwgbniogva, rvfjyjm, gb wvgaw
ov bqxxgpj.

Fj fgnn niqapr i bljpgin jxxvmo ga orj prmvagpinnd sgbomjbbjs imjib vx
Illiniprgi.

Fj cqbo jtlias vqm bcinn kqo vqm bqppjbbxqn imji mjsjyjnvlcjao lmvwmic.

Fj cqbo jaipo dvqor jclnvdcjao njwgbniogva ov lqo evknjbb, igcnjbb,
rvljnjbb dvqawbojmb ov fvmu va qbjxqn lmvejpob.

Fj cqbo sgbomgkqoj cvmj xvvs ov orj ajjsd ormvqwr i kmvisjm xvvs boicl
lmvwmic.

Fj cqbo pmjioj i Aiogvain Bjmygpj Pvmlb ov rjnl orj jpvavcgpinnd
riasgpilljs vx vqm vfa pvqaomd ib orj Ljipj Pvmlb avf rjnlb orvbj ikmvis.

Fj cqbo cvsjmagzj vqm qajclnvdcjao gabqmiapj ias jboikngbr i rgwr-njyjn
pvccgbbgva va iqovciogva. Gx fj riyj orj kmiga lvfjm ov gayjao orjbj
ciprgajb, fj riyj orj kmiga lvfjm ov ciuj pjmoiga orio orjd imj i kvva ias
avo i kiaj ov rqciagod.

Fj cqbo jtojas orj pvyjmiwj vx vqm cgagcqc fiwj nifb ov cvmj oria 2 cgnngva
fvmujmb avf nipugaw orgb kibgp lmvojpogva vx lqmpribgaw lvfjm.

Fj cqbo, kd gapnqsgaw bljpgin bprvvn igs xqasb ib limo vx vqm jsqpiogva
lmvwmic, gclmvyj orj hqingod vx ojiprgaw, omigagaw, ias pvqabjngaw ga vqm
rimsjbo rgo imjib.

Fj cqbo kqgns cvmj ngkmimgjb ga jyjmd imji ias cvmj rvblgoinb ias aqmbgaw
rvcjb qasjm orj Rgnn-Kqmova Ipo, ias omiga cvmj aqmbjb ov boixx orjc.

Fj cqbo lmvygsj rvblgoin gabqmiapj xvm vqm vnsjm pgogzjab xgaiapjs kd jyjmd
fvmujm ias rgb jclnvdjm qasjm Bvpgin Bjpqmgod, pvaomgkqogaw av cvmj oria $1
i cvaor sqmgaw orj jclnvdjj'b fvmugaw pimjjm ov lmvojpo rgc ga rgb vns iwj
ga i sgwagxgjs ciaajm fgorvqo pvbo ov orj Omjibqmd, iwigabo orj sjyiboiogaw
rimsbrgl vx lmvnvawjs vm mjljiojs gnnajbb.

Fj cqbo, ib i limo vx i mjygbjs rvqbgaw ias qmkia mjajfin lmvwmic, wgyj
cvmj rjnl ov orvbj sgblnipjs kd bnqc pnjimiapj, lmvygsj cvmj rvqbgaw xvm
vqm lvvm ias vqm jnsjmnd, ias bjju ib vqm qnogcioj wvin ga vqm xmjj
jaojmlmgbj bdbojc i sjpjao rvcj xvm jyjmd Icjmgpia xicgnd.

Fj cqbo rjnl vkoiga cvmj cvsjma cibb omiabgo fgorga vqm pvccqagogjb ib fjnn
ib nvf-pvbo omiablvmoiogva kjofjja orjc.

Ikvyj inn, fj cqbo mjnjibj $11 kgnngva vx oit mjsqpogva gaov orj lmgyioj
bljasgaw bomjic ov pmjioj ajf evkb ias ajf cimujob ga jyjmd imji vx orgb
nias. GY.

Orjbj lmvwmicb imj vkygvqbnd avo xvm orj lvvm vm orj qasjmlmgygnjwjs invaj.
Jyjmd Icjmgpia fgnn kjajxgo kd orj jtojabgva vx bvpgin bjpqmgod ov pvyjm
orj rvblgoin pvbob vx orjgm iwjs limjaob. Jyjmd Icjmgpia pvccqagod fgnn
kjajxgo xmvc orj pvabomqpogva vm cvsjmagziogva vx bprvvnb, ngkmimgjb,
rvblgoinb, ias aqmbgaw rvcjb, xmvc orj omigagaw vx cvmj aqmbjb ias xmvc orj
gclmvyjcjao vx qmkia mjajfin ga lqkngp omiabgo. Ias jyjmd gasgygsqin
Icjmgpia oitlidjm ias jyjmd pvmlvmioj oitlidjm fgnn kjajxgo xmvc orj
jimngjbo lvbbgknj libbiwj vx orj ljasgaw oit kgnn xmvc kvor orj ajf
gayjbocjao go fgnn kmgaw ias orj ajf evkb orio go fgnn pmjioj.

Orio oit kgnn rib kjja orvmvqwrnd sgbpqbbjs xvm i djim. Avf fj ajjs ipogva.
Orj ajf kqswjo pnjimnd innvfb go. Vqm oitlidjmb bqmjnd sjbjmyj go. Vqm
jpvavcd bomvawnd sjciasb go. Ias jyjmd cvaor vx sjnid sgnqojb gob kjajxgob
ga 1964 xvm pvabqclogva, xvm gayjbocjao, ias xvm jclnvdcjao.

Xvm qaogn orj kgnn gb bgwajs, gob gayjbocjao gapjaogyjb piaavo kj sjjcjs
pjmoiga, ias orj fgorrvnsgaw mioj piaavo kj mjsqpjs--ias orj cvbo siciwgaw
ias sjyiboiogaw orgaw dvq pia sv ov iad kqbgajbbcia ga Icjmgpi gb ov ujjl
rgc ga svqko ias ov ujjl rgc wqjbbgaw va frio vqm oit lvngpd gb. Ias G bid
orio fj brvqns avf mjsqpj ov 14 ljmpjao gabojis vx 15 ljmpjao vqm
fgorrvnsgaw mioj.

G orjmjxvmj qmwj orj Pvawmjbb ov oiuj xgain ipogva va orgb kgnn kd orj
xgmbo vx Xjkmqimd, gx io inn lvbbgknj. Xvm rvfjyjm lmvqs fj cid kj vx orj
qalmjpjsjaojs lmvwmjbb vx vqm xmjj jaojmlmgbj jpvavcd vyjm orj nibo 3
djimb, fj brvqns avo ias fj piaavo ljmcgo go ov liqbj.

Ga 1963, xvm orj xgmbo ogcj ga rgbovmd, fj pmvbbjs orj 70 cgnngva evk cimu,
kqo fj fgnn bvva ajjs cvmj oria 75 cgnngva evkb. Ga 1963 vqm wmvbb aiogvain
lmvsqpo mjiprjs orj $600 kgnngva njyjn--$100 kgnngva rgwrjm oria frja fj
ovvu vxxgpj. Kqo go jibgnd pvqns ias go brvqns kj bognn $30 kgnngva rgwrjm
ovsid oria go gb.

Fiwjb ias lmvxgob ias xicgnd gapvcj imj inbv io orjgm rgwrjbo njyjnb ga
rgbovmd--kqo G fvqns mjcgas dvq orio 4 cgnngva fvmujmb ias 13 ljmpjao vx
vqm gasqbomgin pilipgod imj bognn gsnj ovsid.

Fj ajjs i oit pqo avf ov ujjl orgb pvqaomd cvygaw. Y.

Xvm vqm wvin gb avo cjmjnd ov blmjis orj fvmu. Vqm wvin gb ov pmjioj cvmj
evkb. G kjngjyj orj jaipocjao vx i 35-rvqm fjju fvqns brimlnd gapmjibj
pvbob, fvqns gaygoj gaxniogva, fvqns gcligm vqm ikgngod ov pvcljoj, ias
cjmjnd brimj gabojis vx pmjiogaw jclnvdcjao. Kqo G ic jhqinnd vllvbjs ov
orj 45- vm 50-rvqm fjju ga orvbj gasqbomgjb frjmj pvabgbojaond jtpjbbgyj
qbj vx vyjmogcj piqbjb gapmjibjs qajclnvdcjao.

Bv, orjmjxvmj, G mjpvccjas njwgbniogva iqorvmgzgaw orj pmjiogva vx i
omglimogoj gasqbomd pvccgoojj ov sjojmcgaj va ia gasqbomd-kd-gasqbomd kibgb
ib ov frjmj i rgwrjm ljainod mioj xvm vyjmogcj fvqns gapmjibj evk vljagawb
fgorvqo qasqnd gapmjibgaw pvbob, ias iqorvmgzgaw orj jboikngbrcjao vx bqpr
rgwrjm miojb. YG.

Njo cj ciuj vaj lmgapglnj vx orgb iscgagbomiogva ikqasiaond pnjim: Inn vx
orjbj gapmjibjs vllvmoqagogjb--ga jclnvdcjao, ga jsqpiogva, ga rvqbgaw, ias
ga jyjmd xgjns--cqbo kj vlja ov Icjmgpiab vx jyjmd pvnvm. Ib xim ib orj fmgo
vx Xjsjmin nif fgnn mqa, fj cqbo ikvngbr avo bvcj, kqo inn mipgin
sgbpmgcgaiogva. Xvm orgb gb avo cjmjnd ia jpvavcgp gbbqj, vm i bvpgin,
lvngogpin, vm gaojmaiogvain gbbqj. Go gb i cvmin gbbqj, ias go cqbo kj cjo
kd orj libbiwj orgb bjbbgva vx orj kgnn avf ljasgaw ga orj Rvqbj.

Inn cjckjmb vx orj lqkngp brvqns riyj jhqin ippjbb ov xipgngogjb vlja ov
orj lqkngp. Inn cjckjmb vx orj lqkngp brvqns kj jhqinnd jngwgknj xvm
Xjsjmin kjajxgob orio imj xgaiapjs kd orj lqkngp. Inn cjckjmb vx orj lqkngp
brvqns riyj ia jhqin priapj ov yvoj xvm lqkngp vxxgpginb ias ov bjas orjgm
prgnsmja ov wvvs lqkngp bprvvnb ias ov pvaomgkqoj orjgm oinjaob ov orj
lqkngp wvvs.

Ovsid, Icjmgpiab vx inn mipjb boias bgsj kd bgsj ga Kjmnga ias ga Ygjo Aic.
Orjd sgjs bgsj kd bgsj ga Uvmji. Bqmjnd orjd pia fvmu ias jio ias omiyjn
bgsj kd bgsj ga orjgm vfa pvqaomd. YGG.

Fj cqbo inbv ngxo kd njwgbniogva orj kimb vx sgbpmgcgaiogva iwigabo orvbj
frv bjju jaomd gaov vqm pvqaomd, limogpqnimnd orvbj frv riyj cqpr ajjsjs
bugnnb ias orvbj evgagaw orjgm xicgngjb.

Ga jboikngbrgaw lmjxjmjapjb, i aiogva orio fib kqgno kd orj gccgwmiaob vx
inn niasb pia ibu orvbj frv avf bjju iscgbbgva: "Frio pia dvq sv xvm vqm
pvqaomd?" Kqo fj brvqns avo kj ibugaw: "Ga frio pvqaomd fjmj dvq kvma?"
YGGG.

Xvm vqm qnogcioj wvin gb i fvmns fgorvqo fim, i fvmns cisj bixj xvm
sgyjmbgod, ga frgpr inn cja, wvvsb, ias gsjib pia xmjjnd cvyj ipmvbb jyjmd
kvmsjm ias jyjmd kvqasimd.

Fj cqbo isyiapj ovfims orgb wvin ga 1964 ga io njibo 10 sgxxjmjao fidb, avo
ib limogbiab, kqo ib liomgvob.

Xgmbo, fj cqbo cigaoiga--ias vqm mjsqpjs sjxjabj kqswjo fgnn cigaoiga--orio
cimwga vx cgngoimd bixjod ias bqljmgvmgod vkoigajs ormvqwr 3 djimb vx
bojisgnd gapmjibgaw kvor orj hqingod ias orj hqiaogod vx vqm bomiojwgp, vqm
pvayjaogvain, ias vqm iaogwqjmgnni xvmpjb. Ga 1964 fj fgnn kj kjoojm
lmjlimjs oria jyjm kjxvmj ov sjxjas orj piqbj vx xmjjsvc, frjorjm go gb
ormjiojajs kd vqomgwro iwwmjbbgva vm kd orj gaxgnomiogva lmipogpjs kd orvbj
ga Riavg ias Riyiai, frv brgl imcb ias cja ipmvbb gaojmaiogvain kvmsjmb ov
xvcjao gabqmmjpogva. Ias fj cqbo pvaogaqj ov qbj orio bomjawor ib Evra
Ujaajsd qbjs go ga orj Pqkia pmgbgb ias xvm orj ojbo kia omjiod--ov
sjcvabomioj kvor orj xqogngod vx aqpnjim fim ias orj lvbbgkgngogjb vx
nibogaw ljipj.

Bjpvas, fj cqbo oiuj ajf bojlb--ias fj brinn ciuj ajf lmvlvbinb io
Wjajyi--ovfims orj pvaomvn ias orj jyjaoqin ikvngogva vx imcb. Jyja ga orj
ikbjapj vx iwmjjcjao, fj cqbo avo bovpulgnj imcb kjdvas vqm ajjsb vm bjju
ia jtpjbb vx cgngoimd lvfjm orio pvqns kj lmvyvpiogyj ib fjnn ib fibojxqn.

Go gb ga orgb blgmgo orio ga orgb xgbpin djim fj imj pqoogaw kipu vqm
lmvsqpogva vx jamgprjs qmiagqc kd 25 ljmpjao. Fj imj brqoogaw svfa xvqm
lnqovagqc lgnjb. Fj imj pnvbgaw ciad avajbbjaogin cgngoimd gaboinniogvab.
Ias go gb ga orgb blgmgo orio fj ovsid pinn va vqm isyjmbimgjb ov sv orj
bicj.

Orgms, fj cqbo ciuj gapmjibjs qbj vx vqm xvvs ib ia gabomqcjao vx
ljipj--ciugaw go iyigniknj kd binj vm omisj vm nvia vm svaiogva--ov rqawmd
ljvlnj ga inn aiogvab frgpr ojnn qb vx orjgm ajjsb ias ippjlo lmvljm
pvasgogvab vx sgbomgkqogva.

Xvqmor, fj cqbo ibbqmj vqm lmj-jcgajapj ga orj ljipjxqn jtlnvmiogva vx
vqojm blipj, xvpqbgaw va ia jtljsgogva ov orj cvva ga orgb sjpisj--ga
pvvljmiogva fgor vorjm lvfjmb gx lvbbgknj, invaj gx ajpjbbimd.

Xgxor, fj cqbo jtlias fvmns omisj. Riygaw mjpvwagzjs ga orj Ipo vx 1962
orio fj cqbo kqd ib fjnn ib bjnn, fj avf jtljpo vqm omisgaw limoajmb ov
mjpvwagzj orio fj cqbo bjnn ib fjnn ib kqd. Fj imj fgnngaw ov wgyj orjc
pvcljogogyj ippjbb ov vqm cimujo, ibugaw vand orio orjd sv orj bicj xvm
qb.

Bgtor, fj cqbo pvaogaqj, ormvqwr bqpr cjibqmjb ib orj gaojmjbo jhqingziogva
oit, ib fjnn ib orj pvvljmiogva vx vorjm aiogvab, vqm mjpjao lmvwmjbb
ovfims kiniapgaw vqm gaojmaiogvain ippvqaob.

Orgb iscgagbomiogva cqbo ias fgnn lmjbjmyj orj lmjbjao wvns yinqj vx orj
svnnim.

Bjyjaor, fj cqbo kjpvcj kjoojm ajgwrkvmb fgor orj xmjj boiojb vx orj
Icjmgpib, fvmugaw fgor orj pvqapgnb vx orj VIB, fgor i bomvawjm Inngiapj
xvm Lmvwmjbb, ias fgor inn orj cja ias fvcja vx orgb rjcgblrjmj frv mjinnd
kjngjyj ga ngkjmod ias eqbogpj xvm inn.

Jgwror, fj cqbo bomjaworja orj ikgngod vx xmjj aiogvab jyjmdfrjmj ov
sjyjnvl orjgm gasjljasjapj ias migbj orjgm boiasims vx ngygaw, ias orjmjkd
xmqbomioj orvbj frv lmjd va lvyjmod ias privb. Ov sv orgb, orj mgpr cqbo
rjnl orj lvvm--ias fj cqbo sv vqm limo. Fj cqbo iprgjyj i cvmj mgwvmvqb
iscgagbomiogva vx vqm sjyjnvlcjao ibbgboiapj, fgor nimwjm mvnjb xvm lmgyioj
gayjbovmb, xvm vorjm gasqbomgingzjs aiogvab, ias xvm gaojmaiogvain iwjapgjb
ias xvm orj mjpglgjao aiogvab orjcbjnyjb.

Agaor, fj cqbo bomjaworja vqm Ioniaogp ias Lipgxgp limoajmbrglb, cigaoiga
vqm inngiapjb ias ciuj orj Qagojs Aiogvab i cvmj jxxjpogyj gabomqcjao xvm
aiogvain gasjljasjapj ias gaojmaiogvain vmsjm.

Ojaor, ias xgainnd, fj cqbo sjyjnvl fgor vqm inngjb ajf cjiab vx kmgswgaw
orj wil kjofjja orj Jibo ias orj Fjbo, xipgaw siawjm kvnsnd frjmjyjm siawjm
jtgbob, kqo kjgaw jhqinnd kvns ga vqm bjimpr xvm ajf iwmjjcjaob frgpr pia
janimwj orj rvljb vx inn, frgnj ygvniogaw orj gaojmjbob vx avaj.

Ga brvmo, G fvqns bid ov orj Pvawmjbb orio fj cqbo kj pvaboiaond lmjlimjs
xvm orj fvmbo, ias pvaboiaond ipogaw xvm orj kjbo. Fj cqbo kj bomvaw javqwr
ov fga iad fim, ias fj cqbo kj fgbj javqwr ov lmjyjao vaj.

Fj brinn ajgorjm ipo ib iwwmjbbvmb avm ovnjmioj ipob vx iwwmjbbgva. Fj
gaojas ov kqmd av vaj, ias fj sv avo gaojas ov kj kqmgjs.

Fj pia xgwro, gx fj cqbo, ib fj riyj xvqwro kjxvmj, kqo fj lmid orio fj
fgnn ajyjm riyj ov xgwro iwiga. GT.

Cd wvvs xmgjasb ias cd xjnnvf Icjmgpiab: Ga orjbj nibo 7 bvmmvfxqn fjjub,
fj riyj njimajs iajf orio avorgaw gb bv jasqmgaw ib xigor, ias avorgaw gb
bv sjwmisgaw ib rioj.

Evra Ujaajsd fib i ygpogc vx rioj, kqo rj fib inbv i wmjio kqgnsjm vx
xigor--xigor ga vqm xjnnvf Icjmgpiab, friojyjm orjgm pmjjs vm orjgm pvnvm
vm orjgm boiogva ga ngxj; xigor ga orj xqoqmj vx cia, friojyjm rgb
sgygbgvab ias sgxxjmjapjb.

Orgb xigor fib jprvjs ga inn limob vx orj fvmns. Va jyjmd pvaogajao ias ga
jyjmd nias ov frgpr Cmb. Evrabva ias G omiyjnjs, fj xvqas xigor ias rvlj
ias nvyj ovfims orgb nias vx Icjmgpi ias ovfims vqm ljvlnj.

Bv G ibu dvq avf ga orj Pvawmjbb ias ga orj pvqaomd ov evga fgor cj ga
jtlmjbbgaw ias xqnxgnngaw orio xigor ga fvmugaw xvm i aiogva, i aiogva orio
gb xmjj xmvc fiao ias i fvmns orio gb xmjj xmvc rioj--i fvmns vx ljipj ias
eqbogpj, ias xmjjsvc ias ikqasiapj, xvm vqm ogcj ias xvm inn ogcj ov pvcj.