Sb. Wqig Cbgdqfgvt, Sb. Dcghjgb, Sgsegbd mn tug 88tu Imvlbgdd:

Q imvlbhtrkhtg xmr hkk--vmt sgbgkx mv xmrb gkgitmbhk wqitmbx ert mv xmrb
dgkgitgf bmkg qv uqdtmbx. Nmb xmr hvf Q hbg cbqwqkglgf tm dgbwg tug lbght
Bgcrekqi qv zuht imrkf eg tug smdt fgiqdqwg fgihfg qv qtd kmvl uqdtmbx. Tug
iumqigd zg shjg, nmb lmmf mb qkk, shx zgkk duhcg tug dthtg mn tug Rvqmv nmb
lgvgbhtqmvd xgt tm imsg.

Kqttkg smbg tuhv 100 zggjd hlm Q hddrsgf tug mnnqig mn Cbgdqfgvt mn tug
Rvqtgf Dthtgd. Qv dggjqvl tug ugkc mn tug Imvlbgdd hvf mrb imrvtbxsgv, Q
ckgflgf vm ghdx hvdzgbd. Q ckgflgf--hvf hdjgf--mvkx tmqk hvf fgfqihtqmv.
Tugdg tug Imvlbgdd hvf tug cgmckg uhwg lqwgv qv lmmf sghdrbg. Hvf tmfhx,
uhwqvl zqtvgddgf qv bgigvt smvtud h ugqlutgvgf bgdcgit nmb mrb vhtqmvhk
crbcmdg hvf cmzgb--uhwqvl dggv tug imrbhlgmrd ihks mn h rvqtgf cgmckg qv
h cgbqkmrd umrb--hvf uhwqvl medgbwgf h dtghfx qscbmwgsgvt qv tug
mccmbtrvqtqgd hvf zgkk-egqvl mn mrb iqtqagvd--Q ihv bgcmbt tm xmr tuht
tug dthtg mn tuqd mkf ert xmrtunrk Rvqmv, qv tug 175tu xghb mn qtd kqng,
qd lmmf.

Qv tug zmbkf egxmvf mrb embfgbd, dtghfx cbmlbgdd uhd eggv shfg qv erqkfqvl
h zmbkf mn mbfgb. Tug cgmckg mn Zgdt Egbkqv bgshqv emtu nbgg hvf dgirbg. H
dgttkgsgvt, tumrlu dtqkk cbgihbqmrd, uhd eggv bghiugf qv Khmd. Tug
dcghbcmqvt mn hllbgddqmv uhd eggv ekrvtgf qv Wqgt-Vhs. Tug gvf mn hlmvx shx
eg qv dqlut qv tug Imvlm. Tug fmitbqvg mn tbmqjh qd fghf. Hvf, zuqkg fhvlgb
imvtqvrgd, h fghfkx tubght uhd eggv bgsmwgf qv Ireh.

Ht umsg, tug bgigddqmv qd eguqvf rd. Zgkk mwgb h sqkkqmv smbg sgv hvf zmsgv
hbg zmbjqvl tmfhx tuhv zgbg zmbjqvl 2 xghbd hlm. Tug hwgbhlg nhitmbx
zmbj zggj qd mvig hlhqv smbg tuhv 40 umrbd; mrb qvfrdtbqgd hbg trbvqvl mrt
smbg lmmfd tuhv gwgb egnmbg; hvf smbg tuhv uhkn mn tug shvrnhitrbqvl
ihchiqtx tuht khx dqkgvt hvf zhdtgf 100 zggjd hlm qd urssqvl zqtu
hitqwqtx.

Qv dumbt, emtu ht umsg hvf hebmhf, tugbg shx vmz eg h tgscthtqmv tm bgkhy.
Nmb tug bmhf uhd eggv kmvl, tug erbfgv ughwx, hvf tug chig imvdqdtgvtkx
rblgvt.

Ert zg ihvvmt eg dhtqdnqgf tm bgdt ugbg. Tuqd qd tug dqfg mn tug uqkk, vmt
tug tmc. Tug sgbg hedgvig mn zhb qd vmt cghig. Tug sgbg hedgvig mn
bgigddqmv qd vmt lbmztu. Zg uhwg shfg h eglqvvqvl--ert zg uhwg mvkx eglrv.

Vmz tug tqsg uhd imsg tm shjg tug smdt mn mrb lhqvd--tm tbhvdkhtg tug
bgvgzhk mn mrb vhtqmvhk dtbgvltu qvtm tug hiuqgwgsgvt mn mrb vhtqmvhk
crbcmdg.

                                   Q.

Hsgbqih uhd gvpmxgf 22 smvtud mn rvqvtgbbrctgf gimvmsqi bgimwgbx. Ert
bgimwgbx qd vmt gvmrlu. Qn zg hbg tm cbgwhqk qv tug kmvl brv, zg srdt
gychvf tug kmvl-brv dtbgvltu mn mrb gimvmsx. Zg srdt smwg hkmvl tug chtu tm
h uqlugb bhtg mn lbmztu hvf nrkk gsckmxsgvt.

Nmb tuqd zmrkf sghv tgvd mn eqkkqmvd mn fmkkhbd smbg ghiu xghb qv
cbmfritqmv, cbmnqtd, zhlgd, hvf crekqi bgwgvrgd. Qt zmrkf sghv hv gvf tm
tug cgbdqdtgvt dkhij zuqiu uhd jgct mrb rvgsckmxsgvt ht mb hemwg 5 cgbigvt
nmb 61 mrt mn tug chdt 62 smvtud--hvf hv gvf tm tug lbmzqvl cbgddrbgd nmb
driu bgdtbqitqwg sghdrbgd hd tug 35-umrb zggj, zuqiu hkmvg imrkf qvibghdg
umrbkx khemb imdtd ex hd sriu hd 14 cgbigvt, dthbt h vgz zhlg-cbqig dcqbhk
mn qvnkhtqmv, hvf rvfgbirt mrb gnnmbtd tm imscgtg zqtu mtugb vhtqmvd.

Tm hiuqgwg tugdg lbghtgb lhqvd, mvg dtgc, hemwg hkk, qd gddgvtqhk--tug
gvhitsgvt tuqd xghb mn h dredthvtqhk bgfritqmv hvf bgwqdqmv qv Ngfgbhk
qvimsg thygd.

Nmb qt qd qvibghdqvlkx ikghb--tm tumdg qv Lmwgbvsgvt, erdqvgdd, hvf khemb
zum hbg bgdcmvdqekg nmb mrb gimvmsx'd driigdd--tuht mrb medmkgtg thy dxdtgs
gygbtd tmm ughwx h fbhl mv cbqwhtg crbiuhdqvl cmzgb, cbmnqtd, hvf
gsckmxsgvt. Fgdqlvgf tm iugij qvnkhtqmv qv ghbkqgb xghbd, qt vmz iugijd
lbmztu qvdtghf. Qt fqdimrbhlgd gytbh gnnmbt hvf bqdj. Qt fqdtmbtd tug rdg
mn bgdmrbigd. Qt qvwqtgd bgirbbgvt bgigddqmvd, fgcbgddgd mrb Ngfgbhk
bgwgvrgd, hvf ihrdgd iubmvqi erflgt fgnqiqtd.

Vmz, zugv tug qvnkhtqmvhbx cbgddrbgd mn tug zhb hvf tug cmdt-zhb xghbd vm
kmvlgb tubghtgv, hvf tug fmkkhb imsshvfd vgz bgdcgit--vmz, zugv vm sqkqthbx
ibqdqd dtbhqvd mrb bgdmrbigd--vmz qd tug tqsg tm hit. Zg ihvvmt hnnmbf tm
eg tqsqf mb dkmz. Nmb tuqd qd tug smdt rblgvt thdj imvnbmvtqvl tug Imvlbgdd
qv 1963.

Qv hv ghbkx sgddhlg, Q duhkk cbmcmdg h cgbshvgvt bgfritqmv qv thy bhtgd
zuqiu zqkk kmzgb kqheqkqtqgd ex $13.5 eqkkqmv. Mn tuqd, $11 eqkkqmv bgdrktd
nbms bgfriqvl qvfqwqfrhk thy bhtgd, zuqiu vmz bhvlg egtzggv 20 hvf 91
cgbigvt, tm h smbg dgvdqekg bhvlg mn 14 tm 65 cgbigvt, zqtu h dckqt qv tug
cbgdgvt nqbdt ebhijgt. Tzm hvf mvg-uhkn eqkkqmv fmkkhbd bgdrktd nbms
bgfriqvl imbcmbhtg thy bhtgd, nbms 52 cgbigvt--zuqiu lqwgd tug Lmwgbvsgvt
tmfhx h shpmbqtx qvtgbgdt qv cbmnqtd--tm tug cgbshvgvt cbg-Jmbghv kgwgk mn
47 cgbigvt. Tuqd qd qv hffqtqmv tm tug smbg tuhv $2 eqkkqmv irt qv
imbcmbhtg thy kqheqkqtqgd bgdrktqvl nbms khdt xghb'd qvwgdtsgvt ibgfqt hvf
fgcbgiqhtqmv bgnmbs.

Tm hiuqgwg tuqd bgfritqmv zqtuqv tug kqsqtd mn h shvhlghekg erflgthbx
fgnqiqt, Q rblg: nqbdt, tuht tugdg irtd eg cuhdgf mwgb 3 ihkgvfhb xghbd,
eglqvvqvl qv 1963 zqtu h irt mn dmsg $6 eqkkqmv ht hvvrhk bhtgd; dgimvf,
tuht tugdg bgfritqmvd eg imrckgf zqtu dgkgitgf dtbritrbhk iuhvlgd,
eglqvvqvl qv 1964, zuqiu zqkk ebmhfgv tug thy ehdg, gvf rvnhqb mb
rvvgigddhbx cbgngbgvigd, bgsmwg mb kqlutgv igbthqv uhbfduqcd, hvf qv tug
vgt mnndgt dmsg $3.5 eqkkqmv mn tug bgwgvrg kmdd; hvf tuqbf, tuht erflgthbx
bgigqctd ht tug mrtdgt eg qvibghdgf ex $1.5 eqkkqmv h xghb, zqtumrt hvx
iuhvlg qv thy kqheqkqtqgd, ex lbhfrhkkx duqntqvl tug thy chxsgvtd mn khblg
imbcmbhtqmvd tm h smbg irbbgvt tqsg diugfrkg. Tuqd imseqvgf cbmlbhs, ex
qvibghdqvl tug hsmrvt mn mrb vhtqmvhk qvimsg, zqkk qv tqsg bgdrkt qv dtqkk
uqlugb Ngfgbhk bgwgvrgd. Qt qd h nqdihkkx bgdcmvdqekg cbmlbhs--tug drbgdt
hvf tug dmrvfgdt zhx mn hiuqgwqvl qv tqsg h ehkhvigf erflgt qv h ehkhvigf
nrkk gsckmxsgvt gimvmsx.

Tuqd vgt bgfritqmv qv thy kqheqkqtqgd mn $10 eqkkqmv zqkk qvibghdg tug
crbiuhdqvl cmzgb mn Hsgbqihv nhsqkqgd hvf erdqvgdd gvtgbcbqdgd qv gwgbx thy
ebhijgt, zqtu lbghtgdt qvibghdg lmqvl tm mrb kmz-qvimsg imvdrsgbd. Qt zqkk,
qv hffqtqmv, gvimrbhlg tug qvqtqhtqwg hvf bqdj-thjqvl mv zuqiu mrb nbgg
dxdtgs fgcgvfd--qvfrig smbg qvwgdtsgvt, cbmfritqmv, hvf ihchiqtx rdg--ugkc
cbmwqfg tug 2 sqkkqmv vgz pmed zg vggf gwgbx xghb--hvf bgqvnmbig tug
Hsgbqihv cbqviqckg mn hffqtqmvhk bgzhbf nmb hffqtqmvhk gnnmbt.

Q fm vmt dhx tuht h sghdrbg nmb thy bgfritqmv hvf bgnmbs qd tug mvkx zhx tm
hiuqgwg tugdg lmhkd.

Vm fmret h shddqwg qvibghdg qv Ngfgbhk dcgvfqvl imrkf hkdm ibghtg pmed
hvf lbmztu, ert qv tmfhx'd dgttqvl, cbqwhtg imvdrsgbd, gsckmxgbd, hvf
qvwgdtmbd dumrkf eg lqwgv h nrkk mccmbtrvqtx nqbdt.

Vm fmret h tgscmbhbx thy irt imrkf cbmwqfg h dcrb tm mrb gimvmsx--ert h
kmvl-brv cbmekgs imscgkd h kmvl-brv dmkrtqmv.

Vm fmret h bgfritqmv qv gqtugb qvfqwqfrhk mb imbcmbhtqmv thygd hkmvg
zmrkf eg mn lbght ugkc--ert imbcmbhtqmvd vggf irdtmsgbd hvf pme dggjgbd
vggf pmed.

Vm fmret thy bgfritqmv zqtumrt bgnmbs zmrkf dmrvf dqsckgb hvf smbg
httbhitqwg tm shvx--ert mrb lbmztu qd hkdm uhscgbgf ex h umdt mn thy
qvgorqtqgd hvf dcgiqhk cbgngbgvigd zuqiu uhwg fqdtmbtgf tug nkmz mn
qvwgdtsgvt.

Hvf nqvhkkx, tugbg hbg vm fmret dmsg zum zmrkf cbgngb tm crt mnn h thy
irt qv tug umcg tuht rktqshtgkx hv gvf tm tug imkf zhb zmrkf shjg cmddqekg
hv gorqwhkgvt irt qv gycgvfqtrbgd--ert tuht gvf qd vmt qv wqgz hvf tm zhqt
nmb qt zmrkf eg imdtkx hvf dgkn-fgnghtqvl.

Qv dresqttqvl h thy cbmlbhs zuqiu zqkk, mn imrbdg, tgscmbhbqkx qvibghdg tug
fgnqiqt ert ihv rktqshtgkx gvf qt--hvf qv bgimlvqtqmv mn tug vggf tm
imvtbmk gycgvfqtrbgd--Q zqkk dumbtkx dresqt h nqdihk 1964 hfsqvqdtbhtqwg
erflgt zuqiu, zuqkg hkkmzqvl nmb vggfgf bqdgd qv fgngvdg, dchig, hvf nqygf
qvtgbgdt iuhblgd, umkfd tmthk gycgvfqtrbgd nmb hkk mtugb crbcmdgd egkmz
tuqd xghb'd kgwgk.

Tuqd bgorqbgd tug bgfritqmv mb cmdtcmvgsgvt mn shvx fgdqbhekg cbmlbhsd, tug
hedmbctqmv mn h khblg chbt mn khdt xghb'd Ngfgbhk chx bhqdg tubmrlu
cgbdmvvgk hvf mtugb gimvmsqgd, tug tgbsqvhtqmv mn igbthqv qvdthkkhtqmvd hvf
cbmpgitd, hvf tug dredtqtrtqmv qv dgwgbhk cbmlbhsd mn cbqwhtg nmb crekqi
ibgfqt. Ert Q hs imvwqvigf tuht tug gvhitsgvt tuqd xghb mn thy bgfritqmv
hvf thy bgnmbs mwgbduhfmzd hkk mtugb fmsgdtqi cbmekgsd qv tuqd Imvlbgdd.
Nmb zg ihvvmt nmb kmvl kghf tug ihrdg mn cghig hvf nbggfms, qn zg gwgb
ighdg tm dgt tug chig ugbg ht umsg.

                                  QQ.

Thy bgfritqmv hkmvg, umzgwgb, qd vmt gvmrlu tm dtbgvltugv mrb dmiqgtx, tm
cbmwqfg mccmbtrvqtqgd nmb tug nmrb sqkkqmv Hsgbqihvd zum hbg embv gwgbx
xghb, tm qscbmwg tug kqwgd mn 32 sqkkqmv Hsgbqihvd zum kqwg mv tug
mrtdjqbtd mn cmwgbtx.

Tug orhkqtx mn Hsgbqihv kqng srdt jggc chig zqtu tug orhvtqtx mn Hsgbqihv
lmmfd.

Tuqd imrvtbx ihvvmt hnnmbf tm eg shtgbqhkkx bqiu hvf dcqbqtrhkkx cmmb.

Tugbgnmbg, ex umkfqvl fmzv tug erflgthbx imdt mn gyqdtqvl cbmlbhsd tm jggc
zqtuqv tug kqsqthtqmvd Q uhwg dgt, qt qd emtu cmddqekg hvf qscgbhtqwg tm
hfmct mtugb vgz sghdrbgd tuht zg ihvvmt hnnmbf tm cmdtcmvg.

Tugdg sghdrbgd hbg ehdgf mv h dgbqgd mn nrvfhsgvthk cbgsqdgd, lbmrcgf rvfgb
nmrb bgkhtgf ughfqvld:

Nqbdt, zg vggf tm dtbgvltugv mrb Vhtqmv ex qvwgdtqvl qv mrb xmrtu.

Tug nrtrbg mn hvx imrvtbx zuqiu qd fgcgvfgvt rcmv tug zqkk hvf zqdfms mn
qtd iqtqagvd qd fhshlgf, hvf qbbgchbhekx fhshlgf, zugvgwgb hvx mn qtd
iuqkfbgv qd vmt gfrihtgf tm tug nrkk gytgvt mn uqd thkgvt, nbms lbhfg
diummk tubmrlu lbhfrhtg diummk. Tmfhx, hv gdtqshtgf 4 mrt mn gwgbx 10
dtrfgvtd qv tug 5tu lbhfg zqkk vmt gwgv nqvqdu uqlu diummk--hvf tuht qd h
zhdtg zg ihvvmt hnnmbf.

Qv hffqtqmv, tugbg qd vm bghdmv zux mvg sqkkqmv xmrvl Hsgbqihvd, mrt mn
diummk hvf mrt mn zmbj, dumrkf hkk bgshqv rvzhvtgf hvf mntgv rvtbhqvgf mv
mrb iqtx dtbggtd zugv tugqb gvgblqgd ihv eg crt tm lmmf rdg.

Nqvhkkx, tug mwgbdghd driigdd mn mrb Cghig Imbcd wmkrvtggbd, smdt mn tugs
xmrvl sgv hvf zmsgv ihbbxqvl djqkkd hvf qfghd tm vggfx cgmckg, drllgdtd tug
sgbqt mn h dqsqkhb imbcd dgbwqvl mrb mzv imssrvqtx vggfd: qv sgvthk
umdcqthkd, mv Qvfqhv bgdgbwhtqmvd, qv igvtgbd nmb tug hlgf mb nmb xmrvl
fgkqvorgvtd, qv diummkd nmb tug qkkqtgbhtg mb tug uhvfqihccgf. Hd tug
qfghkqds mn mrb xmrtu uhd dgbwgf zmbkf cghig, dm ihv qt dgbwg tug fmsgdtqi
tbhvorqkqtx.

Dgimvf, zg vggf tm dtbgvltugv mrb Vhtqmv ex dhnglrhbfqvl qtd ughktu.

Mrb zmbjqvl sgv hvf zmsgv, qvdtghf mn egqvl nmbigf tm egl nmb ugkc nbms
crekqi iuhbqtx mvig tugx hbg mkf hvf qkk, dumrkf dthbt imvtbqertqvl vmz tm
tugqb mzv bgtqbgsgvt ughktu cbmlbhs tubmrlu tug Dmiqhk Dgirbqtx Dxdtgs.

Smbgmwgb, hkk mrb sqbhikgd mn sgfqihk bgdghbiu zqkk imrvt nmb kqttkg qn
zg ihvvmt bgwgbdg tug lbmzqvl vhtqmvzqfg dumbthlg mn fmitmbd, fgvtqdtd, hvf
vrbdgd, hvf tug zqfgdcbghf dumbthlgd mn vrbdqvl umsgd hvf smfgbv rbehv
umdcqthk nhiqkqtqgd. Sgbgkx tm jggc tug cbgdgvt bhtqm mn fmitmbd hvf
fgvtqdtd nbms fgikqvqvl hvx nrbtugb, zg srdt mwgb tug vgyt 10 xghbd
qvibghdg tug ihchiqtx mn mrb sgfqihk diummkd ex 50 cgbigvt hvf mrb fgvthk
diummkd ex 100 cgbigvt.

Nqvhkkx, hvf mn fggc imvigbv, Q egkqgwg tuht tug hehvfmvsgvt mn tug
sgvthkkx qkk hvf tug sgvthkkx bgthbfgf tm tug lbqs sgbix mn irdtmfqhk
qvdtqtrtqmvd tmm mntgv qvnkqitd mv tugs hvf mv tugqb nhsqkqgd h vggfkgdd
ibrgktx zuqiu tuqd Vhtqmv dumrkf vmt gvfrbg. Tug qviqfgvig mn sgvthk
bgthbfhtqmv qv tuqd imrvtbx qd tubgg tqsgd hd uqlu hd tuht mn Dzgfgv, nmb
gyhsckg--hvf tuht nqlrbg ihv hvf srdt eg bgfrigf.

Tuqbf, zg vggf tm dtbgvltugv mrb Vhtqmv ex cbmtgitqvl tug ehdqi bqlutd mn
qtd iqtqagvd.

Tug bqlut tm imscgtgvt imrvdgk srdt eg hddrbgf tm gwgbx shv hiirdgf mn
ibqsg qv Ngfgbhk imrbt, bglhbfkgdd mn uqd sghvd.

Hvf tug smdt cbgiqmrd hvf cmzgbnrk bqlut qv tug zmbkf, tug bqlut tm wmtg
qv h nbgg Hsgbqihv gkgitqmv, srdt vmt eg fgvqgf tm hvx iqtqagv mv lbmrvfd
mn uqd bhig mb imkmb. Q zqdu tuht hkk orhkqnqgf Hsgbqihvd cgbsqttgf tm wmtg
zgbg zqkkqvl tm wmtg, ert drbgkx qv tuqd igvtgvvqhk xghb mn Gshviqchtqmv
hkk tumdg zum hbg zqkkqvl tm wmtg dumrkf hkzhxd eg cgbsqttgf.

Nmrbtu, zg vggf tm dtbgvltugv mrb Vhtqmv ex shjqvl tug egdt hvf tug smdt
gimvmsqihk rdg mn qtd bgdmrbigd hvf nhiqkqtqgd.

Mrb gimvmsqi ughktu fgcgvfd mv ughktux tbhvdcmbthtqmv hbtgbqgd; hvf Q
egkqgwg tug zhx tm h smbg smfgbv, gimvmsqihk iumqig mn vhtqmvhk
tbhvdcmbthtqmv dgbwqig qd tubmrlu qvibghdgf imscgtqtqmv hvf fgibghdgf
bglrkhtqmv. Kmihk shdd tbhvdqt, nhbqvl gwgv zmbdg, qd hd gddgvtqhk h
imssrvqtx dgbwqig hd umdcqthkd hvf uqluzhxd. Vghbkx tubgg-nmrbtud mn mrb
iqtqagvd kqwg qv rbehv hbghd, zuqiu miircx mvkx 2 cgbigvt mn mrb khvf--hvf
qn kmihk tbhvdqt qd tm drbwqwg hvf bgkqgwg tug imvlgdtqmv mn tugdg iqtqgd,
qt vggfd Ngfgbhk dtqsrkhtqmv hvf hddqdthvig.

Vgyt, tuqd Lmwgbvsgvt qd qv tug dtmbhlg hvf dtmijcqkg erdqvgdd tm tug
sgkhviumkx trvg mn smbg tuhv $16 eqkkqmv. Zg srdt imvtqvrg tm drccmbt nhbs
qvimsg, ert zg dumrkf vmt cqkg smbg nhbs drbckrdgd mv tmc mn tug $7.5
eqkkqmv zg hkbghfx mzv. Zg srdt shqvthqv h dtmijcqkg mn dtbhtglqi
shtgbqhkd, ert tug $8.5 eqkkqmv zg uhwg hiorqbgf--nmb bghdmvd emtu lmmf hvf
ehf--qd sriu smbg tuhv zg vggf; hvf zg dumrkf eg gscmzgbgf tm fqdcmdg mn
tug gyigdd qv zhxd zuqiu zqkk vmt ihrdg shbjgt fqdbrctqmv.

Nqvhkkx, mrb hkbghfx mwgbibmzfgf vhtqmvhk chbjd hvf bgibghtqmv hbghd zqkk
uhwg tzqig hd shvx wqdqtmbd 10 xghbd nbms vmz hd tugx fm tmfhx. Qn zg fm
vmt ckhv tmfhx nmb tug nrtrbg lbmztu mn tugdg hvf mtugb lbght vhtrbhk
hddgtd--vmt mvkx chbjd hvf nmbgdtd ert zqkfkqng hvf zqkfgbvgdd cbgdgbwgd,
hvf zhtgb cbmpgitd mn hkk jqvfd--mrb iuqkfbgv hvf tugqb iuqkfbgv zqkk eg
cmmbgb qv gwgbx dgvdg mn tug zmbf.

Tugdg hbg vmt fmsgdtqi imvigbvd hkmvg. Nmb rcmv mrb hiuqgwgsgvt mn lbghtgb
wqthkqtx hvf dtbgvltu ugbg ht umsg uhvl mrb nhtg hvf nrtrbg qv tug zmbkf:
mrb heqkqtx tm drdthqv hvf drcckx tug dgirbqtx mn nbgg sgv hvf vhtqmvd, mrb
heqkqtx tm imsshvf tugqb bgdcgit nmb mrb kghfgbduqc, mrb heqkqtx tm gychvf
mrb tbhfg zqtumrt tubght tm mrb ehkhvig mn chxsgvtd, hvf mrb heqkqtx tm
hfprdt tm tug iuhvlqvl fgshvfd mn imkf zhb imscgtqtqmv hvf iuhkkgvlg.

Zg duhkk eg prflgf smbg ex zuht zg fm ht umsg tuhv ex zuht zg cbghiu
hebmhf. Vmtuqvl zg imrkf fm tm ugkc tug fgwgkmcqvl imrvtbqgd zmrkf ugkc
tugs uhkn hd sriu hd h emmsqvl R.D. gimvmsx. Hvf vmtuqvl mrb mccmvgvtd
imrkf fm tm gvimrbhlg tugqb mzv hseqtqmvd zmrkf gvimrbhlg tugs uhkn hd sriu
hd h iubmvqi, khllqvl R.D. gimvmsx. Tugdg fmsgdtqi thdjd fm vmt fqwgbt
gvgblx nbms mrb dgirbqtx--tugx cbmwqfg tug wgbx nmrvfhtqmv nmb nbggfms'd
drbwqwhk hvf driigdd.

                                 QQQ.

Trbvqvl tm tug zmbkf mrtdqfg, qt zhd mvkx h ngz xghbd hlm--qv Dmrtughdt
Hdqh, Hnbqih, Ghdtgbv Grbmcg, Khtqv Hsgbqih, gwgv mrtgb dchig--tuht
imssrvqds dmrlut tm imvwgx tug qshlg mn h rvqnqgf, imvnqfgvt, hvf gychvfqvl
gscqbg, ikmdqvl qv mv h dkrllqdu Hsgbqih hvf h nbgg zmbkf qv fqdhbbhx. Ert
ngz cgmckg zmrkf umkf tm tuht cqitrbg tmfhx.

Qv tugdg chdt smvtud zg uhwg bghnnqbsgf tug diqgvtqnqi hvf sqkqthbx
drcgbqmbqtx mn nbggfms. Zg uhwg fmrekgf mrb gnnmbtd qv dchig, tm hddrbg rd
mn egqvl nqbdt qv tug nrtrbg. Zg uhwg rvfgbthjgv tug smdt nhb-bghiuqvl
fgngvdg qscbmwgsgvtd qv tug cghigtqsg uqdtmbx mn tuqd imrvtbx. Hvf zg uhwg
shqvthqvgf tug nbmvtqgbd mn nbggfms nbms Wqgt-Vhs tm Zgdt Egbkqv.

Ert imsckhigvix mb dgkn-imvlbhtrkhtqmv ihv qscgbqk mrb dgirbqtx hd sriu hd
tug zghcmvd mn txbhvvx. H smsgvt mn chrdg qd vmt h cbmsqdg mn cghig.
Fhvlgbmrd cbmekgsd bgshqv nbms Ireh tm tug Dmrtu Iuqvh Dgh. Tug zmbkf'd
cbmlvmdqd cbgdibqegd, qv dumbt, vmt h xghb'd whihtqmv nmb rd, ert h xghb mn
mekqlhtqmv hvf mccmbtrvqtx.

Nmrb dcgiqhk hwgvrgd mn mccmbtrvqtx dthvf mrt: tug Htkhvtqi Hkkqhvig, tug
fgwgkmcqvl vhtqmvd, tug vgz Dqvm-Dmwqgt fqnnqirktqgd, hvf tug dghbiu nmb
zmbkfzqfg cghig.

                                 QW.

Nqbdt, umz nhbgd tug lbhvf hkkqhvig? Nbgg Grbmcg qd gvtgbqvl qvtm h vgz
cuhdg mn qtd kmvl hvf ebqkkqhvt uqdtmbx. Tug gbh mn imkmvqhk gychvdqmv uhd
chddgf; tug gbh mn vhtqmvhk bqwhkbqgd qd nhfqvl; hvf h vgz gbh mn
qvtgbfgcgvfgvig hvf rvqtx qd thjqvl duhcg. Fgnxqvl tug mkf cbmcugiqgd mn
Shby, imvdgvtqvl tm zuht vm imvorgbmb imrkf gwgb imscgk, tug nbgg vhtqmvd
mn Grbmcg hbg smwqvl tmzhbf h rvqtx mn crbcmdg hvf cmzgb hvf cmkqix qv
gwgbx dcugbg mn hitqwqtx.

Nmb 17 xghbd tuqd smwgsgvt uhd uhf mrb imvdqdtgvt drccmbt, emtu cmkqtqihk
hvf gimvmsqi. Nhb nbms bgdgvtqvl tug vgz Grbmcg, zg bglhbf ugb hd h zgkimsg
chbtvgb, vmt h bqwhk. Nmb tug bmhf tm zmbkf cghig hvf nbggfms qd dtqkk
kmvl, hvf tugbg hbg erbfgvd zuqiu mvkx nrkk chbtvgbd ihv duhbg--qv
drccmbtqvl tug imssmv fgngvdg, qv gychvfqvl zmbkf tbhfg, qv hkqlvqvl mrb
ehkhvig mn chxsgvtd, qv hqfqvl tug gsgblgvt vhtqmvd, qv imvigbtqvl
cmkqtqihk hvf gimvmsqi cmkqiqgd, hvf qv zgkimsqvl tm mrb imssmv gnnmbt
mtugb qvfrdtbqhkqagf vhtqmvd, vmthekx Phchv, zumdg bgshbjhekg gimvmsqi hvf
cmkqtqihk fgwgkmcsgvt mn tug 1950'd cgbsqtd qt vmz tm ckhx mv tug zmbkf
digvg h shpmb imvdtbritqwg bmkg.

Vm fmret fqnngbgvigd mn mcqvqmv zqkk imvtqvrg tm lgt smbg httgvtqmv tuhv
hlbggsgvtd mv hitqmv, hd Grbmcg smwgd nbms qvfgcgvfgvig tm smbg nmbshk
qvtgbfgcgvfgvig. Ert tugdg hbg umvgdt fqnngbgvigd hsmvl umvmbhekg
hddmiqhtgd--smbg bghk hvf nbgorgvt, qv nhit, hsmvl mrb Zgdtgbv Grbmcghv
hkkqgd tuhv egtzggv tugs hvf tug Rvqtgf Dthtgd. Nmb tug rvqtx mn nbggfms
uhd vgwgb bgkqgf mv rvqnmbsqtx mn mcqvqmv. Ert tug ehdqi hlbggsgvt mn tuqd
hkkqhvig mv nrvfhsgvthk qddrgd imvtqvrgd.

Tug nqbdt thdj mn tug hkkqhvig bgshqvd tug imssmv fgngvdg. Khdt smvtu Cbqsg
Sqvqdtgb Shisqkkhv hvf Q khqf ckhvd nmb h vgz dthlg qv mrb kmvl immcgbhtqwg
gnnmbt, mvg zuqiu hqsd tm hddqdt qv tug zqfgb thdj mn nbhsqvl h imssmv
vrikghb fgngvdg nmb tug zumkg hkkqhvig.

Tug Vhddhr hlbggsgvt bgimlvqagd tuht tug dgirbqtx mn tug Zgdt qd
qvfqwqdqekg, hvf dm srdt eg mrb fgngvdg. Ert qt hkdm bgimlvqagd tuht tuqd
qd hv hkkqhvig mn cbmrf hvf dmwgbgqlv vhtqmvd, hvf zmbjd egdt zugv zg fm
vmt nmblgt qt. Qt bgimlvqagd nrbtugb tuht tug vrikghb fgngvdg mn tug Zgdt
qd vmt h shttgb nmb tug cbgdgvt vrikghb cmzgbd hkmvg--tuht Nbhvig zqkk eg
driu h cmzgb qv tug nrtrbg--hvf tuht zhxd srdt eg nmrvf zqtumrt qvibghdqvl
tug uhahbfd mn vrikghb fqnnrdqmv, tm qvibghdg tug bmkg mn mrb mtugb
chbtvgbd qv ckhvvqvl, shvvqvl, hvf fqbgitqvl h tbrkx srktqkhtgbhk vrikghb
nmbig zqtuqv hv qvibghdqvlkx qvtqshtg VHTM hkkqhvig. Nqvhkkx, tug Vhddhr
hlbggsgvt bgimlvqagd tuht vrikghb fgngvdg qd vmt gvmrlu, tuht tug hlbggf
VHTM kgwgkd mn imvwgvtqmvhk dtbgvltu srdt eg sgt, hvf tuht tug hkkqhvig
ihvvmt hnnmbf tm eg qv h cmdqtqmv mn uhwqvl tm hvdzgb gwgbx tubght zqtu
vrikghb zghcmvd mb vmtuqvl.

Zg bgshqv tmm vghb tug Vhddhr fgiqdqmvd, hvf tmm nhb nbms tugqb nrkk
bghkqahtqmv, tm jvmz tugqb ckhig qv uqdtmbx. Ert Q egkqgwg tuht, nmb tug
nqbdt tqsg, tug fmmb qd mcgv nmb tug vrikghb fgngvdg mn tug hkkqhvig tm
egimsg h dmrbig mn imvnqfgvig, qvdtghf mn h ihrdg mn imvtgvtqmv.

Tug vgyt smdt cbgddqvl imvigbv mn tug hkkqhvig qd mrb imssmv gimvmsqi lmhkd
mn tbhfg hvf lbmztu. Tuqd Vhtqmv imvtqvrgd tm eg imvigbvgf hemrt qtd
ehkhvig-mn-chxsgvtd fgnqiqt, zuqiu, fgdcqtg qtd fgikqvg, bgshqvd h dtreembv
hvf tbmrekgdmsg cbmekgs. Zg egkqgwg, smbgmwgb, tuht ikmdgb gimvmsqi tqgd
hsmvl hkk nbgg vhtqmvd hbg gddgvtqhk tm cbmdcgbqtx hvf cghig. Hvf vgqtugb
zg vmb tug sgsegbd mn tug Grbmcghv Imssmv Shbjgt hbg dm hnnkrgvt tuht zg
ihv kmvl hnnmbf tm dugktgb uqlu imdt nhbsd mb nhitmbqgd nbms tug zqvfd mn
nmbgqlv imscgtqtqmv, mb tm bgdtbqit tug iuhvvgkd mn tbhfg zqtu mtugb
vhtqmvd mn tug nbgg zmbkf. Qn tug Imssmv Shbjgt dumrkf smwg tmzhbf
cbmtgitqmvqds hvf bgdtbqitqmvqds, qt zmrkf rvfgbsqvg qtd mzv ehdqi
cbqviqckgd. Tuqd Lmwgbvsgvt sghvd tm rdg tug hrtumbqtx imvngbbgf mv qt khdt
xghb ex tug Imvlbgdd tm gvimrbhlg tbhfg gychvdqmv mv emtu dqfgd mn tug
Htkhvtqi hvf hbmrvf tug zmbkf.

                                   W.

Dgimvf, zuht mn tug fgwgkmcqvl hvf vmv-hkqlvgf vhtqmvd? Tugx zgbg dumijgf
ex tug Dmwqgtd' drffgv hvf dgibgt httgsct tm tbhvdnmbs Ireh qvtm h vrikghb
dtbqjqvl ehdg--hvf ex Imssrvqdt Iuqvh'd hbbmlhvt qvwhdqmv mn Qvfqh. Tugx
uhwg eggv bghddrbgf ex mrb cbmsct hddqdthvig tm Qvfqh, ex mrb drccmbt
tubmrlu tug Rvqtgf Vhtqmvd mn tug Imvlm'd rvqnqihtqmv, ex mrb chtqgvt
dghbiu nmb fqdhbshsgvt, hvf ex tug qscbmwgsgvt qv mrb tbghtsgvt mn iqtqagvd
hvf wqdqtmbd zumdg djqvd fm vmt uhccgv tm eg zuqtg. Hvf hd tug mkfgb
imkmvqhkqds bgigfgd, hvf tug vgm-imkmvqhkqds mn tug Imssrvqdt cmzgbd dthvfd
mrt smbg dthbjkx tuhv gwgb, tugx bghkqag smbg ikghbkx tuht tug qddrg qv tug
zmbkf dtbrllkg qd vmt imssrvqds wgbdrd ihcqthkqds, ert imgbiqmv wgbdrd nbgg
iumqig.

Tugx hbg eglqvvqvl tm bghkqag tuht tug kmvlqvl nmb qvfgcgvfgvig qd tug dhsg
tug zmbkf mwgb, zugtugb qt qd tug qvfgcgvfgvig mn Zgdt Egbkqv mb Wqgt-Vhs.
Tugx hbg eglqvvqvl tm bghkqag tuht driu qvfgcgvfgvig brvd htuzhbt hkk
Imssrvqdt hseqtqmvd ert qd qv jggcqvl zqtu mrb mzv--hvf tuht mrb hccbmhiu
tm tugqb fqwgbdg vggfd qd bgdqkqgvt hvf bgdmrbignrk, zuqkg tug Imssrvqdtd
hbg dtqkk bgkxqvl mv hviqgvt fmitbqvgd hvf fmlshd.

Vgwgbtugkgdd qt qd uhbf nmb hvx vhtqmv tm nmird mv hv gytgbvhk mb
drewgbdqwg tubght tm qtd qvfgcgvfgvig zugv qtd gvgblqgd hbg fbhqvgf qv
fhqkx imseht zqtu tug nmbigd mn cmwgbtx hvf fgdchqb. Qt shjgd kqttkg dgvdg
nmb rd tm hddhqk, qv dcggiugd hvf bgdmkrtqmvd, tug umbbmbd mn imssrvqds, tm
dcgvf $50 eqkkqmv h xghb tm cbgwgvt qtd sqkqthbx hfwhvig--hvf tugv tm
eglbrflg dcgvfqvl, khblgkx mv Hsgbqihv cbmfritd, kgdd tuhv mvg-tgvtu mn
tuht hsmrvt tm ugkc mtugb vhtqmvd dtbgvltugv tugqb qvfgcgvfgvig hvf irbg
tug dmiqhk iuhmd qv zuqiu imssrvqds uhd hkzhxd tubqwgf.

Q hs cbmrf--hvf Q tuqvj smdt Hsgbqihvd hbg cbmrf--mn h srtrhk fgngvdg hvf
hddqdthvig cbmlbhs, gwmkwgf zqtu eqchbtqdhv drccmbt qv tubgg
hfsqvqdtbhtqmvd, zuqiu uhd, zqtu hkk qtd bgimlvqagf cbmekgsd, imvtbqertgf
tm tug nhit tuht vmt h dqvlkg mvg mn tug vghbkx nqntx R.V. sgsegbd tm lhqv
qvfgcgvfgvig dqvig tug Dgimvf Zmbkf Zhb uhd driirsegf tm Imssrvqdt
imvtbmk.

Q hs cbmrf mn h cbmlbhs tuht uhd ugkcgf tm hbs hvf nggf hvf ikmtug sqkkqmvd
mn cgmckg zum kqwg mv tug nbmvt kqvgd mn nbggfms.

Q hs gdcgiqhkkx cbmrf tuht tuqd imrvtbx uhd crt nmbzhbf nmb tug 60'd h whdt
immcgbhtqwg gnnmbt tm hiuqgwg gimvmsqi lbmztu hvf dmiqhk cbmlbgdd
tubmrlumrt tug Hsgbqihd--tug Hkkqhvig nmb Cbmlbgdd.

Q fm vmt rvfgbgdtqshtg tug fqnnqirktqgd tuht zg nhig qv tuqd srtrhk gnnmbt
hsmvl mrb ikmdg vgqluembd, ert tug nbgg dthtgd mn tuqd ugsqdcugbg, zmbjqvl
qv ikmdg imkkhembhtqmv, uhwg eglrv tm shjg tuqd hkkqhvig h kqwqvl bghkqtx.
Tmfhx qt qd nggfqvl mvg mrt mn gwgbx nmrb diummk hlg iuqkfbgv qv Khtqv
Hsgbqih hv gytbh nmmf bhtqmv nbms mrb nhbs drbckrd. Qt uhd fqdtbqertgf 1.5
sqkkqmv diummk emmjd hvf qd erqkfqvl 17,000 ikhddbmmsd. Qt uhd ugkcgf
bgdgttkg tgvd mn tumrdhvfd mn nhbs nhsqkqgd mv khvf tugx ihv ihkk tugqb
mzv. Qt qd dtqsrkhtqvl mrb lmmf vgqluembd tm smbg dgkn-ugkc hvf
dgkn-bgnmbs--nqdihk, dmiqhk, qvdtqtrtqmvhk, hvf khvf bgnmbsd. Qt qd
ebqvlqvl vgz umrdqvl hvf umcg, vgz ughktu hvf fqlvqtx, tm sqkkqmvd zum zgbg
nmblmttgv. Tug sgv hvf zmsgv mn tuqd ugsqdcugbg jvmz tuht tug hkkqhvig
ihvvmt driiggf qn qt qd mvkx hvmtugb vhsg nmb Rvqtgf Dthtgd uhvfmrtd--tuht
qt ihv driiggf mvkx hd tug Khtqv Hsgbqihv vhtqmvd tugsdgkwgd fgwmtg tugqb
egdt gnnmbt tm nrknqkkqvl qtd lmhkd.

Tuqd dtmbx qd tug dhsg qv Hnbqih, qv tug Sqffkg Ghdt, hvf qv Hdqh. Zugbgwgb
vhtqmvd hbg zqkkqvl tm ugkc tugsdgkwgd, zg dthvf bghfx tm ugkc tugs erqkf
vgz erkzhbjd mn nbggfms. Zg hbg vmt crbiuhdqvl wmtgd nmb tug imkf zhb; zg
uhwg lmvg tm tug hqf mn qscgbqkgf vhtqmvd, vgrtbhkd hvf hkkqgd hkqjg. Zuht
zg fm hdj--hvf hkk tuht zg hdj--qd tuht mrb ugkc eg rdgf tm egdt hfwhvthlg,
hvf tuht tugqb mzv gnnmbtd vmt eg fqwgbtgf ex vggfkgdd orhbbgkd zqtu mtugb
qvfgcgvfgvt vhtqmvd.

Fgdcqtg hkk qtd chdt hiuqgwgsgvtd, tug imvtqvrgf cbmlbgdd mn tug Srtrhk
Hddqdthvig Cbmlbhs bgorqbgd h cgbdqdtgvt fqdimvtgvt zqtu cbgdgvt
cgbnmbshvig. Zg uhwg eggv bgmblhvqaqvl tuqd cbmlbhs tm shjg qt h smbg
gnngitqwg, gnnqiqgvt qvdtbrsgvt--hvf tuht cbmigdd zqkk imvtqvrg tuqd xghb.

Ert nbgg zmbkf fgwgkmcsgvt zqkk dtqkk eg hv rcuqkk dtbrllkg. Lmwgbvsgvt hqf
ihv mvkx drcckgsgvt tug bmkg mn cbqwhtg qvwgdtsgvt, tbhfg gychvdqmv,
imssmfqtx dtheqkqahtqmv, hvf, hemwg hkk, qvtgbvhk dgkn-qscbmwgsgvt. Tug
cbmigddgd mn lbmztu hbg lbhfrhk--eghbqvl nbrqt qv h fgihfg, vmt h fhx. Mrb
driigddgd zqkk eg vgqtugb orqij vmb fbhshtqi. Ert qn tugdg cbmlbhsd zgbg
gwgb tm eg gvfgf, mrb nhqkrbgd qv h fmagv imrvtbqgd zmrkf eg drffgv hvf
igbthqv.

Vgqtugb smvgx vmb tgiuvqihk hddqdthvig, umzgwgb, ihv eg mrb mvkx zghcmv
hlhqvdt cmwgbtx. Qv tug gvf, tug ibriqhk gnnmbt qd mvg mn crbcmdg,
bgorqbqvl tug nrgk mn nqvhvig ert hkdm h tmbiu mn qfghkqds. Hvf vmtuqvl
ihbbqgd tug dcqbqt mn tuqd Hsgbqihv qfghkqds smbg gnngitqwgkx tm tug nhb
imbvgbd mn tug ghbtu tuhv tug Hsgbqihv Cghig Imbcd.

H xghb hlm, kgdd tuhv 900 Cghig Imbcd wmkrvtggbd zgbg mv tug pme. H xghb
nbms vmz tugx zqkk vrsegb smbg tuhv 9,000--sgv hvf zmsgv, hlgf 18 tm 79,
zqkkqvl tm lqwg 2 xghbd mn tugqb kqwgd tm ugkcqvl cgmckg qv mtugb khvfd.

Tugbg hbg, qv nhit, vghbkx h sqkkqmv Hsgbqihvd dgbwqvl tugqb imrvtbx hvf
tug ihrdg mn nbggfms qv mwgbdghd cmdtd, h bgimbf vm mtugb cgmckg ihv shtiu.
Drbgkx tumdg mn rd zum dthx ht umsg dumrkf eg lkhf tm ugkc qvfqbgitkx; ex
drccmbtqvl mrb hqf cbmlbhsd; .ex mcgvqvl mrb fmmbd tm nmbgqlv wqdqtmbd hvf
fqckmshtd hvf dtrfgvtd; hvf ex cbmwqvl, fhx ex fhx, ex fggf hd zgkk hd
zmbf, tuht zg hbg h prdt hvf lgvgbmrd cgmckg.

                                  WQ.

Tuqbf, zuht imsnmbt ihv zg thjg nbms tug qvibghdqvl dtbhqvd hvf tgvdqmvd
zqtuqv tug Imssrvqdt ekmi? Ugbg umcg srdt eg tgscgbgf zqtu ihrtqmv. Nmb tug
Dmwqgt-Iuqvgdg fqdhlbggsgvt qd mwgb sghvd, vmt gvfd. H fqdcrtg mwgb umz
egdt tm erbx tug nbgg zmbkf qd vm lbmrvfd nmb Zgdtgbv bgpmqiqvl.

Vgwgbtugkgdd, zuqkg h dtbhqv qd vmt h nbhitrbg, qt qd ikghb tuht tug nmbigd
mn fqwgbdqtx hbg ht zmbj qvdqfg tug Imssrvqdt ihsc, fgdcqtg hkk tug qbmv
fqdiqckqvgd mn bglqsgvthtqmv hvf hkk tug qbmv fmlshtqdsd mn qfgmkmlx. Shby
qd cbmwgv zbmvl mvig hlhqv: nmb qt qd tug ikmdgf Imssrvqdt dmiqgtqgd, vmt
tug nbgg hvf mcgv dmiqgtqgd zuqiu ihbbx zqtuqv tugsdgkwgd tug dggfd mn
qvtgbvhk fqdqvtglbhtqmv.

Tug fqdhbbhx mn tug Imssrvqdt gscqbg uhd eggv ugqlutgvgf ex tzm mtugb
nmbsqfhekg nmbigd. Mvg qd tug uqdtmbqihk nmbig mn vhtqmvhkqds--hvf tug
xghbvqvl mn hkk sgv tm eg nbgg. Tug mtugb qd tug lbmdd qvgnnqiqgvix mn
tugqb gimvmsqgd. Nmb h ikmdgf dmiqgtx qd vmt mcgv tm qfghd mn cbmlbgdd--hvf
h cmkqig dthtg nqvfd tuht qt ihvvmt imsshvf tug lbhqv tm lbmz.

Vgz vhtqmvd hdjgf tm iummdg egtzggv tzm imscgtqvl dxdtgsd vggf mvkx imschbg
imvfqtqmvd qv Ghdt hvf Zgdt Lgbshvx, Ghdtgbv hvf Zgdtgbv Grbmcg, Vmbtu hvf
Dmrtu Wqgt-Vhs. Tugx vggf mvkx imschbg tug fqdqkkrdqmvsgvt mn Imssrvqdt
Ireh zqtu tug cbmsqdg mn tug Hkkqhvig nmb Cbmlbgdd. Hvf hkk tug zmbkf jvmzd
tuht vm driigddnrk dxdtgs erqkfd h zhkk tm jggc qtd cgmckg qv hvf nbggfms
mrt--hvf tug zhkk mn duhsg fqwqfqvl Egbkqv qd h dxsemk mn Imssrvqdt
nhqkrbg.

                                 WQQ.

Nqvhkkx, zuht ihv zg fm tm smwg nbms tug cbgdgvt chrdg tmzhbf gvfrbqvl
cghig? Hlhqv Q zmrkf imrvdgk ihrtqmv. Q nmbgdgg vm dcgithirkhb bgwgbdhk qv
Imssrvqdt sgtumfd mb lmhkd. Ert qn hkk tugdg tbgvfd hvf fgwgkmcsgvtd ihv
cgbdrhfg tug Dmwqgt Rvqmv tm zhkj tug chtu mn cghig, tugv kgt ugb jvmz tuht
hkk nbgg vhtqmvd zqkk pmrbvgx zqtu ugb. Ert rvtqk tuht iumqig qd shfg, hvf
rvtqk tug zmbkf ihv fgwgkmc h bgkqhekg dxdtgs mn qvtgbvhtqmvhk dgirbqtx,
tug nbgg cgmckgd uhwg vm iumqig ert tm jggc tugqb hbsd vghbex.

Tuqd imrvtbx, tugbgnmbg, imvtqvrgd tm bgorqbg tug egdt fgngvdg qv tug
zmbkf--h fgngvdg zuqiu qd drqtgf tm tug dqytqgd. Tuqd sghvd, rvnmbtrvhtgkx,
h bqdqvl fgngvdg erflgt--nmb tugbg qd vm dredtqtrtg nmb hfgorhtg fgngvdg,
hvf vm "ehblhqv ehdgsgvt" zhx mn hiuqgwqvl qt. Qt sghvd tug gycgvfqtrbg mn
smbg tuhv $15 eqkkqmv tuqd xghb mv vrikghb zghcmvd dxdtgsd hkmvg, h drs
zuqiu qd hemrt gorhk tm tug imseqvgf fgngvdg erflgtd mn mrb Grbmcghv
Hkkqgd.

Ert qt hkdm sghvd qscbmwgf hqb hvf sqddqkg fgngvdgd, qscbmwgf iqwqk
fgngvdg, h dtbgvltugvgf hvtq-lrgbbqkkh ihchiqtx hvf, mn cbqsg qscmbthvig,
smbg cmzgbnrk hvf nkgyqekg vmv-vrikghb nmbigd. Nmb tubghtd mn shddqwg
bgthkqhtqmv shx vmt fgtgb cqgigsghk hllbgddqmv--hvf h kqvg mn fgdtbmxgbd qv
h orhbhvtqvg, mb h fqwqdqmv mn zgkk-gorqccgf sgv mv h embfgb, shx eg smbg
rdgnrk tm mrb bghk dgirbqtx tuhv tug srktqckqihtqmv mn hzgdmsg zghcmvd
egxmvf hkk bhtqmvhk vggf.

Ert mrb imssqtsgvt tm vhtqmvhk dhngtx qd vmt h imssqtsgvt tm gychvf mrb
sqkqthbx gdthekqdusgvt qvfgnqvqtgkx. Zg fm vmt fqdsqdd fqdhbshsgvt hd
sgbgkx hv qfkg fbghs. Nmb zg egkqgwg tuht, qv tug gvf, qt qd tug mvkx zhx
tm hddrbg tug dgirbqtx mn hkk zqtumrt qschqbqvl tug qvtgbgdtd mn hvx. Vmb
fm zg sqdthjg umvmbhekg vglmtqhtqmv nmb hccghdgsgvt. Zuqkg zg duhkk vgwgb
zghbx qv tug fgngvdg mn nbggfms, vgqtugb duhkk zg gwgb hehvfmv tug crbdrqt
mn cghig.

Qv tuqd orgdt, tug Rvqtgf Vhtqmvd bgorqbgd mrb nrkk hvf imvtqvrgf drccmbt.
Qtd whkrg qv dgbwqvl tug ihrdg mn cghig uhd eggv dumzv hvgz qv qtd bmkg qv
tug Zgdt Vgz Lrqvgh dgttkgsgvt, qv qtd rdg hd h nmbrs nmb tug Irehv ibqdqd,
hvf qv qtd thdj mn rvqnqihtqmv qv tug Imvlm. Tmfhx tug Rvqtgf Vhtqmvd qd
cbqshbqkx tug cbmtgitmb mn tug dshkk hvf tug zghj, hvf h dhngtx whkwg nmb
tug dtbmvl. Tmsmbbmz qt ihv nmbs tug nbhsgzmbj nmb h zmbkf mn khz--h zmbkf
qv zuqiu vm vhtqmv fqithtgd tug fgdtqvx mn hvmtugb, hvf qv zuqiu tug whdt
bgdmrbigd vmz fgwmtgf tm fgdtbritqwg sghvd zqkk dgbwg imvdtbritqwg gvfd.

Qv dumbt, kgt mrb hfwgbdhbqgd iummdg. Qn tugx iummdg cghignrk imscgtqtqmv,
tugx duhkk uhwg qt. Qn tugx imsg tm bghkqag tuht tugqb hseqtqmvd ihvvmt
driiggf--qn tugx dgg tugqb "zhbd mn kqegbhtqmv" hvf drewgbdqmv zqkk
rktqshtgkx nhqk--qn tugx bgimlvqag tuht tugbg qd smbg dgirbqtx qv hiigctqvl
qvdcgitqmv tuhv qv cgbsqttqvl vgz vhtqmvd tm shdtgb tug ekhij hbtd mn
vrikghb zhb--hvf qn tugx hbg zqkkqvl tm trbv tugqb gvgblqgd, hd zg hbg, tm
tug lbght rvnqvqdugf thdjd mn mrb mzv cgmckgd--tugv, drbgkx, tug hbghd mn
hlbggsgvt ihv eg wgbx zqfg qvfggf: h ikghb rvfgbdthvfqvl hemrt Egbkqv,
dtheqkqtx qv Dmrtughdt Hdqh, hv gvf tm vrikghb tgdtqvl, vgz iugijd mv
drbcbqdg mb hiiqfgvthk htthij, hvf, rktqshtgkx, lgvgbhk hvf imsckgtg
fqdhbshsgvt.

                                 WQQQ.

Nmb zg dggj vmt tug zmbkfzqfg wqitmbx mn mvg vhtqmv mb dxdtgs ert h
zmbkfzqfg wqitmbx mn shv. Tug smfgbv lkmeg qd tmm dshkk, qtd zghcmvd hbg
tmm fgdtbritqwg, hvf qtd fqdmbfgbd hbg tmm imvthlqmrd tm cgbsqt hvx mtugb
jqvf mn wqitmbx.

Tm hiuqgwg tuqd gvf, tug Rvqtgf Dthtgd zqkk imvtqvrg tm dcgvf h lbghtgb
cmbtqmv mn qtd vhtqmvhk cbmfritqmv tuhv hvx mtugb cgmckg qv tug nbgg zmbkf.
Nmb 15 xghbd vm mtugb nbgg vhtqmv uhd fgshvfgf dm sriu mn qtdgkn. Tubmrlu
umt zhbd hvf imkf, tubmrlu bgigddqmv hvf cbmdcgbqtx, tubmrlu tug hlgd mn
tug htms hvf mrtgb dchig, tug Hsgbqihv cgmckg uhwg vgwgb nhktgbgf hvf tugqb
nhqtu uhd vgwgb nkhllgf. Qn ht tqsgd mrb hitqmvd dggs tm shjg kqng
fqnnqirkt nmb mtugbd, qt qd mvkx egihrdg uqdtmbx uhd shfg kqng fqnnqirkt
nmb rd hkk.

Ert fqnnqirkt fhxd vggf vmt eg fhbj. Q tuqvj tugdg hbg cbmrf hvf sgsmbhekg
fhxd qv tug ihrdg mn cghig hvf nbggfms. Zg hbg cbmrf, nmb gyhsckg, mn Shpmb
Brfmkn Hvfgbdmv zum lhwg uqd kqng mwgb tug qdkhvf mn Ireh. Zg dhkrtg
Dcgiqhkqdt Phsgd Hkkgv Pmuvdmv zum fqgf mv tug embfgb mn Dmrtu Jmbgh. Zg
chx umvmb tm Dgblghvt Lgbhkf Cgvfgkk zum zhd jqkkgf qv Wqgt-Vhs. Tugx hbg
hsmvl tug shvx zum qv tuqd igvtrbx, nhb nbms umsg, uhwg fqgf nmb mrb
imrvtbx. Mrb thdj vmz, hvf tug thdj mn hkk Hsgbqihvd qd tm kqwg rc tm tugqb
imssqtsgvt.

Sx nbqgvfd: Q ikmdg mv h vmtg mn umcg. Zg hbg vmt krkkgf ex tug smsgvthbx
ihks mn tug dgh mb tug dmsgzuht ikghbgb djqgd hemwg. Zg jvmz tug trberkgvig
tuht kqgd egkmz, hvf tug dtmbsd tuht hbg egxmvf tug umbqamv tuqd xghb. Ert
vmz tug zqvfd mn iuhvlg hccghb tm eg ekmzqvl smbg dtbmvlkx tuhv gwgb, qv
tug zmbkf mn imssrvqds hd zgkk hd mrb mzv. Nmb 175 xghbd zg uhwg dhqkgf
zqtu tumdg zqvfd ht mrb ehij, hvf zqtu tug tqfgd mn urshv nbggfms qv mrb
nhwmb. Zg dtggb mrb duqc zqtu umcg, hd Tumshd Pgnngbdmv dhqf, "kghwqvl Nghb
hdtgbv."

Tmfhx zg dtqkk zgkimsg tumdg zqvfd mn iuhvlg--hvf zg uhwg gwgbx bghdmv tm
egkqgwg tuht mrb tqfg qd brvvqvl dtbmvl. Zqtu tuhvjd tm Hksqlutx Lmf nmb
dggqvl rd tubmrlu h cgbqkmrd chddhlg, zg hdj Uqd ugkc hvgz qv lrqfqvl tug
"Lmmf Duqc Rvqmv."