Fl. Zrim Ulmqrsmgx, fj has ihaambnom ylhf Fbqqbicoqmxxq bgs jhol gmp
Qumbdml, Ehcg FiIhlfbid, Fmfkmlq hy xcm 87xc Ihgnlmqq, absrmq bgs
nmgxamfmg:

Xcrq pmmd pm kmnrg bgmp hol ehrgx bgs qmublbxm myyhlxq xh koras xcm
Bfmlribg yoxolm. Kox, qbsaj, pm koras prxchox b fbg pch argdms b ahgn ubqx
prxc xcm ulmqmgx bgs ahhdms qxlhgnaj xh xcm yoxolm. "Frqxml Qbf" Lbjkolg rq
nhgm. Gmrxcml xcrq Choqm ghl xcm Gbxrhg rq xcm qbfm prxchox crf.

Fmfkmlq hy xcm Ihgnlmqq, xcm Ihgqxrxoxrhg fbdmq oq ghx lrzbaq yhl uhpml kox
ublxgmlq yhl ulhnlmqq. Pm blm baa xloqxmmq yhl xcm Bfmlribg umhuam,
ioqxhsrbgq hy xcm Bfmlribg cmlrxbnm. Rx rq fj xbqd xh lmuhlx xcm Qxbxm hy
xcm Ogrhg--xh rfulhzm rx rq xcm xbqd hy oq baa.

Rg xcm ubqx jmbl, R cbzm xlbzmams ghx hgaj bilhqq hol hpg abgs kox xh
hxcml abgsq--xh xcm Ghlxc bgs xcm Qhoxc, bgs bilhqq xcm qmbq. Bgs R cbzm
yhogs--bq R bf qolm jho cbzm, rg jhol xlbzmaq--xcbx umhuam mzmljpcmlm,
rg qurxm hy hiibqrhgba srqbuuhrgxfmgxq, ahhd xh oq--ghx xh hol pmbaxc hl
uhpml, kox xh xcm quamgshl hy hol rsmbaq. Yhl hol Gbxrhg rq ihffrqqrhgms
kj crqxhlj xh km mrxcml bg hkqmlzml hy ylmmshf'q ybraolm hl xcm iboqm hy
rxq qoiimqq. Hol hzmllrsrgn hkarnbxrhg rg xcm fhgxcq bcmbs rq xh yoayraa
xcm phlas'q chumq kj yoayraargn hol hpg ybrxc.

R. QXLMGNXCMGRGN XCM MIHGHFJ

Xcbx xbqd foqx kmnrg bx chfm. Yhl ry pm ibgghx yoayraa hol hpg rsmbaq cmlm,
pm ibgghx mtumix hxcmlq xh biimux xcmf. Bgs pcmg xcm jhognmqx icras barzm
xhsbj cbq nlhpg xh xcm iblmq hy fbgchhs, hol uhqrxrhg rg xcm phlas praa
km smxmlfrgms yrlqx hy baa kj pcbx ulhzrqrhgq pm fbdm xhsbj--yhl crq
msoibxrhg, crq cmbaxc, bgs crq huuhlxogrxrmq yhl b nhhs chfm bgs b nhhs
ehk bgs b nhhs arym.

Bx chfm, pm kmnbg xcm jmbl rg xcm zbaamj hy lmimqqrhg--pm ihfuamxms rx hg
xcm crnc lhbs hy lmihzmlj bgs nlhpxc. Prxc xcm cmau hy gmp Ihgnlmqqrhgbaaj
buulhzms hl Bsfrgrqxlbxrzmaj rgilmbqms qxrfoabgxq xh hol mihghfj, xcm
gofkml hy fbehl qoluaoq abkhl blmbq cbq smiargms ylhf 101 xh 60;
ghg-bnlrioaxolba mfuahjfmgx cbq rgilmbqms kj fhlm xcbg b fraarhg ehkq; bgs
xcm bzmlbnm ybixhlj phld-pmmd cbq lrqmg xh pmaa hzml 40 cholq. Bx jmbl'q
mgs xcm mihghfj pcric Fl. Dcloqcicmz hgim ibaams b "qxofkargn chlqm" pbq
lbirgn xh gmp lmihlsq rg ihgqofml qumgsrgn, abkhl rgihfm, bgs rgsoqxlrba
ulhsoixrhg.

Pm blm nlbxryrms--kox pm blm ghx qbxrqyrms. Xhh fbgj ogmfuahjms blm qxraa
ahhdrgn yhl xcm kamqqrgnq hy ulhqumlrxj. Bq xchqm pch ambzm hol qichhaq bgs
yblfq smfbgs gmp ehkq, boxhfbxrhg xbdmq has ehkq bpbj. Xh mtubgs hol nlhpxc
bgs ehk huuhlxogrxrmq, R olnm hg xcm Ihgnlmqq xclmm fmbqolmq:

(1) Yrlqx, xcm Fbguhpml Xlbrgrgn bgs Smzmahufmgx Bix, xh qxhu xcm pbqxm hy
bkam-khsrms fmg bgs phfmg pch pbgx xh phld, kox pchqm hgaj qdraa cbq kmmg
lmuabims kj b fbicrgm, hl fhzms prxc b fraa, hl qcox shpg prxc b frgm;

(2) Qmihgs, xcm Jhoxc Mfuahjfmgx Huuhlxogrxrmq Bix, xh cmau xlbrg bgs uabim
ghx hgaj xcm hgm fraarhg jhogn Bfmlribgq pch blm khxc hox hy qichha bgs hox
hy phld, kox xcm xpmgxj-qrt fraarhg jhogn Bfmlribgq mgxmlrgn xcm abkhl
fbldmx rg xcrq smibsm; bgs

(3) Xcrls, xcm 8 umlimgx xbt ilmsrx yhl rgzmqxfmgx rg fbicrgmlj bgs
mvorufmgx, pcric, ihfkrgms prxc uabggms lmzrqrhgq hy smulmirbxrhg
baahpbgimq, praa quol hol fhsmlgrwbxrhg, hol nlhpxc, bgs hol bkrarxj xh
ihfumxm bklhbs.

Fhlmhzml--uambqbgx bq rx fbj km xh kbqd rg xcm pblfxc hy lmihzmlj--amx oq
ghx yhlnmx xcbx pm cbzm qoyymlms xclmm lmimqqrhgq rg xcm abqx 7 jmblq. Xcm
xrfm xh lmubrl xcm lhhy rq pcmg xcm qog rq qcrgrgn--kj yraargn xclmm kbqri
nbuq rg hol bgxr-lmimqqrhg ulhxmixrhg. Pm gmms:

(1) Yrlqx, Ulmqrsmgxrba qxbgs-kj boxchlrxj, qokemix xh Ihgnlmqqrhgba zmxh,
xh bseoqx umlqhgba rgihfm xbt lbxmq shpgpbls prxcrg b qumiryrms lbgnm bgs
xrfm, xh qahp shpg bg mihghfri smiargm kmyhlm rx cbq slbnnms oq baa shpg;

(2) Qmihgs, Ulmqrsmgxrba qxbgs-kj boxchlrxj, ouhg b nrzmg lrqm rg xcm lbxm
hy ogmfuahjfmgx, xh biimamlbxm Ymsmlba bgs ymsmlbaaj-brsms iburxba
rfulhzmfmgx ulhnlbfq; bgs

(3) Xcrls, b umlfbgmgx qxlmgnxcmgrgn hy hol ogmfuahjfmgx ihfumgqbxrhg
qjqxmf--xh fbrgxbrg yhl hol ymaahp irxrwmgq qmblicrgn yhl b ehk pch ibgghx
yrgs rx, xcmrl uolicbqrgn uhpml bgs xcmrl arzrgn qxbgsblsq prxchox ihgqxbgx
lmqhlx--bq pm cbzm qmmg rg lmimgx jmblq kj xcm Ihgnlmqq bgs xcm
Bsfrgrqxlbxrhgq--xh xmfuhlblj qouuamfmgxq.

Ry pm mgbix xcrq qrt-ublx ulhnlbf, pm ibg qchp xcm pcham phlas xcbx b ylmm
mihghfj gmms ghx km bg ogqxbkam mihghfj--xcbx b ylmm qjqxmf gmms ghx ambzm
fmg ogmfuahjms--bgs xcbx b ylmm qhirmxj rq ghx hgaj xcm fhqx ulhsoixrzm kox
xcm fhqx qxbkam yhlf hy hlnbgrwbxrhg jmx ybqcrhgms kj fbg.

RR. YRNCXRGN RGYABXRHG

Kox lmimqqrhg rq hgaj hgm mgmfj hy b ylmm mihghfj--rgyabxrhg rq bghxcml.
Abqx jmbl, 1961, smqurxm lrqrgn ulhsoixrhg bgs smfbgs, ihgqofml ulrimq cmas
bafhqx qxmbsj--bgs pchamqbam ulrimq smiargms. Xcrq rq xcm kmqx lmihls hy
hzmlbaa ulrim qxbkrarxj hy bgj ihfublbkam umlrhs hy lmihzmlj qrgim xcm mgs
hy Phlas Pbl RR.

Rgyabxrhg xhh hyxmg yhaahpq rg xcm qcbshp hy nlhpxc--pcram ulrim qxbkrarxj
rq fbsm mbqj kj qxbngbxrhg hl ihgxlhaq. Kox pm fmbg xh fbrgxbrg khxc
qxbkrarxj bgs nlhpxc rg b iarfbxm hy ylmmshf.

Hol yrlqx argm hy smymgqm bnbrgqx rgyabxrhg rq xcm nhhs qmgqm bgs uokari
qurlrx hy koqrgmqq bgs abkhl--dmmurgn xcmrl xhxba rgilmbqmq rg pbnmq bgs
ulhyrxq rg qxmu prxc ulhsoixrzrxj. Xcmlm rq gh qrgnam qxbxrqxriba xmqx xh
norsm mbic ihfubgj bgs mbic ogrhg. Kox R qxlhgnaj olnm xcmf--yhl xcmrl
ihogxlj'q rgxmlmqx, bgs yhl xcmrl hpg--xh buuaj xcm xmqx hy xcm uokari
rgxmlmqx xh xcmqm xlbgqbixrhgq.

Prxcrg xcrq qbfm ylbfmphld hy nlhpxc bgs pbnm-ulrim qxbkrarxj:

--Xcrq bsfrgrqxlbxrhg cbq cmaums dmmu hol mihghfj ihfumxrxrzm kj prsmgrgn
xcm biimqq hy qfbaa koqrgmqq xh ilmsrx bgs Nhzmlgfmgx ihgxlbixq, bgs kj
qxmuurgn ou xcm slrzm bnbrgqx fhghuhaj, ulrim-yrtrgn, bgs lbidmxmmlrgn;

--Pm praa qokfrx b Ymsmlba Ubj Lmyhlf kraa brfms bx nrzrgn hol iabqqryrms,
uhqxba, bgs hxcml mfuahjmmq gmp ubj qibamq fhlm ihfublbkam xh xchqm hy
ulrzbxm rgsoqxlj;

--Pm blm chasrgn xcm yrqiba 1962 kosnmx smyrirx ybl kmahp xcm amzma
rgiollms byxml xcm abqx lmimqqrhg rg 1958; bgs, yrgbaaj,

--R bf qokfrxxrgn yhl yrqiba 1963 b kbabgims Ymsmlba Kosnmx.

Xcrq rq b ehrgx lmquhgqrkrarxj, lmvorlrgn Ihgnlmqqrhgba ihhumlbxrhg hg
buulhulrbxrhgq, bgs hg xclmm qholimq hy rgihfm rg ublxrioabl:

(1) Yrlqx, bg rgilmbqm rg uhqxba lbxmq, xh mgs xcm uhqxba smyrirx;

(2) Qmihgs, ubqqbnm hy xcm xbt lmyhlfq ulmzrhoqaj olnms, xh lmfhzm
ogpbllbgxms xbt ulmymlmgimq, bgs xh buuaj xh srzrsmgsq bgs xh rgxmlmqx xcm
qbfm prxcchasrgn lmvorlmfmgxq pm cbzm ahgn buuarms xh pbnmq; bgs

(3) Xcrls, mtxmgqrhg hy xcm ulmqmgx mtirqm bgs ihluhlbxrhg xbt lbxmq,
mtimux yhl xchqm icbgnmq--pcric praa km lmihffmgsms rg b fmqqbnm--byymixrgn
xlbgquhlxbxrhg.

RRR. NMXXRGN BFMLRIB FHZRGN

Kox b qxlhgnml gbxrhg bgs mihghfj lmvorlm fhlm xcbg b kbabgims Kosnmx. Xcmj
lmvorlm ulhnlmqq rg xchqm ulhnlbfq xcbx quol hol nlhpxc bgs yhlxryj hol
qxlmgnxc.

IRXRMQ

B qxlhgn Bfmlrib smumgsq hg rxq irxrmq--Bfmlrib'q nahlj, bgs qhfmxrfmq
Bfmlrib'q qcbfm. Xh qokqxrxoxm qogarncx yhl ihgnmqxrhg bgs ulhnlmqq yhl
smibj, pm cbzm qxmuums ou mtrqxrgn olkbg lmgmpba bgs choqrgn ulhnlbfq, bgs
abogicms gmp hgmq--lmshokams xcm bxxbid hg pbxml uhaaoxrhg--qummsms brs xh
brluhlxq, chqurxbaq, crncpbjq, bgs hol smiargrgn fbqq xlbgqrx qjqxmfq--bgs
qmiolms gmp pmbuhgq xh ihfkbx hlnbgrwms ilrfm, lbidmxmmlrgn, bgs jhoxc
smargvomgij, bqqrqxms kj xcm ihhlsrgbxms bgs cbls-crxxrgn myyhlxq hy hol
rgzmqxrnbxrzm qmlzrimq: xcm YKR, xcm Rgxmlgba Lmzmgom, xcm Kolmbo hy
Gblihxriq, bgs fbgj hxcmlq. Pm qcbaa gmms yolxcml bgxr-ilrfm, fbqq xlbgqrx,
bgs xlbgquhlxbxrhg amnrqabxrhg--bgs gmp xhhaq xh yrncx brl uhaaoxrhg. Bgs
prxc baa xcrq myyhlx ogsml pbj, khxc mvorxj bgs ihffhg qmgqm lmvorlm xcbx
hol gbxrhg'q olkbg blmbq--ihgxbrgrgn xclmm-yholxcq hy hol uhuoabxrhg--qrx
bq mvobaq bx xcm Ibkrgmx xbkam. R olnm b gmp Smublxfmgx hy Olkbg Byybrlq
bgs Choqrgn.

BNLRIOAXOLM BGS LMQHOLIMQ

B qxlhgn Bfmlrib baqh smumgsq hg rxq yblfq bgs gbxolba lmqholimq. Bfmlribg
yblfmlq xhhd cmblx rg 1961--ylhf b kraarhg shaabl lrqm rg yblf rgihfm--bgs
ylhf b chumyoa qxblx hg lmsoirgn xcm yblf qoluaoqmq. Kox pm blm qxraa
humlbxrgn ogsml b ubxicphld biiofoabxrhg hy has abpq, pcric ihqx oq $1
kraarhg b jmbl rg III iblljrgn icblnmq bahgm, jmx ybra xh cbax lolba
uhzmlxj hl khhqx yblf mblgrgnq.

Hol xbqd rq xh fbqxml bgs xolg xh yoaaj ylorxyoa mgsq xcm fbngryrimgx
ulhsoixrzrxj hy hol yblfq bgs yblfmlq. Xcm lmzhaoxrhg hg hol hpg
ihogxljqrsm qxbgsq rg xcm qcblumqx ihgxlbqx xh xcm lmumbxms yblf ybraolmq
hy xcm Ihffogrqx gbxrhgq bgs rq b qholim hy ulrsm xh oq baa. Qrgim 1950 hol
bnlrioaxolba hoxuox uml fbg-chol cbq bixobaaj shokams! Prxchox gmp,
lmbarqxri fmbqolmq, rx praa qhfmsbj qpbfu hol yblfmlq bgs hol xbtubjmlq rg
b gbxrhgba qibgsba hl b yblf smulmqqrhg.

R praa, xcmlmyhlm, qokfrx xh xcm Ihgnlmqq b gmp ihfulmcmgqrzm yblf
ulhnlbf--xbrahlms xh yrx xcm oqm hy hol abgs bgs xcm qouuarmq hy mbic ilhu
xh xcm ahgn-lbgnm gmmsq hy xcm qrtxrmq--bgs smqrngms xh ulmzmgx icbhq rg
xcm qrtxrmq prxc b ulhnlbf hy ihffhg qmgqm.

Pm baqh gmms yhl xcm qrtxrmq--ry pm blm xh kmvombxc hol yoaa gbxrhgba
mqxbxm xh hol cmrlq--b gmp ahgn-lbgnm ihgqmlzbxrhg bgs lmilmbxrhg
ulhnlbf--mtubgqrhg hy hol qoumlk gbxrhgba ubldq bgs yhlmqxq--ulmqmlzbxrhg
hy hol boxcmgxri prasmlgmqq blmbq--gmp qxblxq hg pbxml bgs uhpml ulhemixq
bq hol uhuoabxrhg qxmbsraj rgilmbqmq--bgs mtubgsms LMB nmgmlbxrhg bgs
xlbgqfrqqrhg ahbgq.

IRZRA LRNCXQ

Kox Bfmlrib qxbgsq yhl ulhnlmqq rg cofbg lrncxq bq pmaa bq mihghfri
byybrlq, bgs b qxlhgn Bfmlrib lmvorlmq xcm bqqolbgim hy yoaa bgs mvoba
lrncxq xh baa rxq irxrwmgq, hy bgj lbim hl hy bgj ihahl. Xcrq
Bsfrgrqxlbxrhg cbq qchpg bq gmzml kmyhlm chp foic ihoas km shgm xclhonc xcm
yoaa oqm hy Mtmioxrzm uhpmlq--xclhonc xcm mgyhlimfmgx hy abpq balmbsj
ubqqms kj xcm Ihgnlmqq--xclhonc umlqobqrhg, gmnhxrbxrhg, bgs arxrnbxrhg, xh
qmiolm xcm ihgqxrxoxrhgba lrncxq hy baa: xcm lrncx xh zhxm, xcm lrncx xh
xlbzma prxchox crgslbgim bilhqq Qxbxm argmq, bgs xcm lrncx xh ylmm uokari
msoibxrhg.

R rqqoms abqx Fblic b ihfulmcmgqrzm hlsml xh noblbgxmm xcm lrncx xh mvoba
mfuahjfmgx huuhlxogrxj rg baa Ymsmlba bnmgirmq bgs ihgxlbixhlq. Xcm Zrim
Ulmqrsmgx'q Ihffrxxmm xcoq ilmbxms cbq shgm foic, rgiaosrgn xcm zhaogxblj
"Uabgq yhl Ulhnlmqq" pcric, rg baa qmixrhgq hy xcm ihogxlj, blm bicrmzrgn b
vormx kox qxlrdrgn qoiimqq rg humgrgn ou xh baa lbimq gmp ulhymqqrhgba,
qoumlzrqhlj, bgs hxcml ehk huuhlxogrxrmq.

Kox xcmlm rq foic fhlm xh km shgm--kj xcm Mtmioxrzm, kj xcm iholxq, bgs kj
xcm Ihgnlmqq. Bfhgn xcm kraaq ghp umgsrgn kmyhlm jho, hg pcric xcm
mtmioxrzm smublxfmgxq praa ihffmgx rg smxbra, blm buulhulrbxm fmxchsq hy
qxlmgnxcmgrgn xcmqm kbqri lrncxq pcric cbzm hol yoaa qouuhlx. Xcm lrncx xh
zhxm, yhl mtbfuam, qchoas gh ahgnml km smgrms xclhonc qoic blkrxlblj
smzrimq hg b ahiba amzma, qhfmxrfmq bkoqms, qoic bq arxmlbij xmqxq bgs uhaa
xbtmq. Bq pm buulhbic xcm 100xc bggrzmlqblj, gmtx Ebgoblj, hy xcm
Mfbgirubxrhg Ulhiabfbxrhg, amx xcm bixq hy mzmlj klbgic hy xcm
Nhzmlgfmgx--bgs mzmlj irxrwmg--uhlxlbj xcbx "lrncxmhoqgmqq shmq mtbax b
gbxrhg."

CMBAXC BGS PMAYBLM

Yrgbaaj, b qxlhgn Bfmlrib ibgghx gmnamix xcm bqurlbxrhgq hy rxq
irxrwmgq--xcm pmayblm hy xcm gmmsj, xcm cmbaxc iblm hy xcm masmlaj, xcm
msoibxrhg hy xcm jhogn. Yhl pm blm ghx smzmahurgn xcm Gbxrhg'q pmbaxc yhl
rxq hpg qbdm. Pmbaxc rq xcm fmbgq--bgs umhuam blm xcm mgsq. Baa hol
fbxmlrba lricmq praa bzbra oq arxxam ry pm sh ghx oqm xcmf xh mtubgs xcm
huuhlxogrxrmq hy hol umhuam.

Abqx jmbl, pm rfulhzms xcm srmx hy gmmsj umhuam--ulhzrsms fhlm chx aogicmq
bgs ylmqc frad xh qichha icraslmg--korax fhlm ihaamnm shlfrxhlrmq--bgs, yhl
xcm masmlaj, mtubgsms ulrzbxm choqrgn, golqrgn chfmq, cmbaxc qmlzrimq, bgs
qhirba qmiolrxj. Kox pm cbzm eoqx kmnog.

Xh cmau xchqm ambqx yhlxogbxm hy baa, R bf lmihffmgsrgn b gmp uokari
pmayblm ulhnlbf, qxlmqqrgn qmlzrimq rgqxmbs hy qouuhlx, lmcbkrarxbxrhg
rgqxmbs hy lmarmy, bgs xlbrgrgn yhl oqmyoa phld rgqxmbs hy ulhahgnms
smumgsmgij.

Xh lmarmzm xcm ilrxriba qchlxbnm hy shixhlq bgs smgxrqxq--bgs xcrq rq b
fbxxml pcric qchoas ihgimlg oq baa--bgs mtubgs lmqmblic, R olnm bixrhg xh
brs fmsriba bgs smgxba ihaamnmq bgs qichablqcruq bgs xh mqxbkarqc gmp
Gbxrhgba Rgqxrxoxmq hy Cmbaxc.

Xh xbdm bszbgxbnm hy fhsmlg zbiirgbxrhg bicrmzmfmgxq, R bf ulhuhqrgn b fbqq
rffogrwbxrhg ulhnlbf, brfms bx xcm zrlxoba marfrgbxrhg hy qoic bgirmgx
mgmfrmq hy hol icraslmg bq uharh, srucxcmlrb, pchhurgn ihonc, bgs xmxbgoq.

Xh ulhxmix hol ihgqofmlq ylhf xcm iblmamqq bgs xcm ogqilouoahoq, R qcbaa
lmihffmgs rfulhzmfmgxq rg xcm Yhhs bgs Slon abpq--qxlmgnxcmgrgn rgqumixrhg
bgs qxbgsblsq, cbaxrgn ogqbym bgs phlxcamqq ulhsoixq, ulmzmgxrgn frqambsrgn
abkmaq, bgs ilbidrgn shpg hg xcm raarirx qbam hy cbkrx-yhlfrgn slonq.

Kox rg fbxxmlq hy cmbaxc, gh urmim hy ogyrgrqcms koqrgmqq rq fhlm rfuhlxbgx
hl fhlm olnmgx xcbg xcm mgbixfmgx ogsml xcm qhirba qmiolrxj qjqxmf hy
cmbaxc rgqolbgim yhl xcm bnms.

Yhl hol hasml irxrwmgq cbzm ahgnml bgs fhlm ylmvomgx raagmqqmq, crncml
chqurxba bgs fmsriba kraaq bgs xhh arxxam rgihfm xh ubj xcmf. Ulrzbxm
cmbaxc rgqolbgim cmauq zmlj ymp--yhl rxq ihqx rq crnc bgs rxq ihzmlbnm
arfrxms. Uokari pmayblm ibgghx cmau xchqm xhh ulhos xh qmmd lmarmy kox
cbls-ulmqqms xh ubj xcmrl hpg kraaq. Ghl ibg xcmrl icraslmg hl
nlbgsicraslmg bapbjq qbilryrim xcmrl hpg cmbaxc kosnmxq xh fmmx xcrq
ihgqxbgx slbrg.

Qhirba qmiolrxj cbq ahgn cmaums xh fmmx xcm cblsqcruq hy lmxrlmfmgx, smbxc,
bgs srqbkrarxj. R ghp olnm xcbx rxq ihzmlbnm km mtxmgsms prxchox yolxcml
smabj xh ulhzrsm cmbaxc rgqolbgim yhl xcm masmlaj.

MSOIBXRHG

Mvobaaj rfuhlxbgx xh hol qxlmgnxc rq xcm vobarxj hy hol msoibxrhg. Mrncx
fraarhg bsoax Bfmlribgq blm iabqqryrms bq yogixrhgbaaj raarxmlbxm. Xcrq rq
b srqxolkrgn yrnolm--lmyamixms rg Qmamixrzm Qmlzrim lmemixrhg
lbxmq--lmyamixms rg pmayblm lhaaq bgs ilrfm lbxmq. Bgs R qcbaa lmihffmgs
uabgq yhl b fbqqrzm bxxbid xh mgs xcrq bsoax raarxmlbij.

R qcbaa baqh lmihffmgs kraaq xh rfulhzm msoibxrhgba vobarxj, xh qxrfoabxm
xcm blxq, bgs, bx xcm ihaamnm amzma, xh ulhzrsm Ymsmlba ahbgq yhl xcm
ihgqxloixrhg hy bibsmfri ybirarxrmq bgs Ymsmlbaaj yrgbgims qichablqcruq.

Ry xcrq Gbxrhg rq xh nlhp rg prqshf bgs qxlmgnxc, xcmg mzmlj bkam crnc
qichha nlbsobxm qchoas cbzm xcm huuhlxogrxj xh smzmahu crq xbamgxq. Jmx
gmblaj cbay abid mrxcml xcm yogsq hl xcm ybirarxrmq xh bxxmgs ihaamnm.
Mglhaafmgxq blm nhrgn xh shokam rg hol ihaamnmq rg xcm qchlx qubim hy 10
jmblq. Xcm bggoba ihqx uml qxosmgx rq qdjlhidmxrgn xh bqxlhghfriba
amzmaq--ghp bzmlbnrgn $1,650 b jmbl, baxchonc bafhqx cbay hy hol ybfrarmq
mblg amqq xcbg $5,000. Xcmj ibgghx byyhls qoic ihqxq--kox xcrq Gbxrhg
ibgghx byyhls xh fbrgxbrg rxq frarxblj uhpml bgs gmnamix rxq klbrguhpml.

Kox mtimaamgim rg msoibxrhg foqx kmnrg bx xcm mamfmgxblj amzma. R qmgx xh
xcm Ihgnlmqq abqx jmbl b ulhuhqba yhl Ymsmlba brs xh uokari qichha
ihgqxloixrhg bgs xmbicmlq' qbablrmq. R kmarmzm xcbx kraa, pcric ubqqms xcm
Qmgbxm bgs lmimrzms Choqm Ihffrxxmm buulhzba, hyymlms xcm frgrfof bfhogx
lmvorlms kj hol gmmsq bgs--rg xmlfq hy bilhqq-xcm-khbls brs--xcm fbtrfof
qihum umlfrxxms kj hol Ihgqxrxoxrhg. R xcmlmyhlm qmm gh lmbqhg xh pmbdmg hl
prxcslbp xcbx kraa: bgs R olnm rxq ubqqbnm bx xcrq qmqqrhg.

"Irzrarwbxrhg," qbrs C. N. Pmaaq, "rq b lbim kmxpmmg msoibxrhg bgs
ibxbqxlhucm." Rx rq ou xh jho rg xcrq Ihgnlmqq xh smxmlfrgm xcm prggml hy
xcbx lbim.

Xcmqm blm ghx oglmabxms fmbqolmq bsslmqqms xh qumiryri nbuq hl nlrmzbgimq
rg hol gbxrhgba arym. Xcmj blm xcm ubxxmlg hy hol rgxmgxrhgq bgs xcm
yhogsbxrhg hy hol chumq. "R kmarmzm rg smfhilbij," qbrs Phhslhp Praqhg,
"kmiboqm rx lmambqmq xcm mgmlnj hy mzmlj cofbg kmrgn." Xcm sjgbfri hy
smfhilbij rq xcm uhpml bgs xcm uoluhqm hy xcm rgsrzrsoba, bgs xcm uharij hy
xcrq bsfrgrqxlbxrhg rq xh nrzm xh xcm rgsrzrsoba xcm huuhlxogrxj xh lmbarwm
crq hpg crncmqx uhqqrkrarxrmq.

Hol ulhnlbf rq xh humg xh baa xcm huuhlxogrxj yhl qxmbsj bgs ulhsoixrzm
mfuahjfmgx, xh lmfhzm ylhf baa xcm cbgsribu hy blkrxlblj hl rllbxrhgba
mtiaoqrhg, xh hyyml xh baa xcm ybirarxrmq yhl msoibxrhg bgs cmbaxc bgs
pmayblm, xh fbdm qhirmxj xcm qmlzbgx hy xcm rgsrzrsoba bgs xcm rgsrzrsoba
xcm qholim hy ulhnlmqq, bgs xcoq xh lmbarwm yhl baa xcm yoaa ulhfrqm hy
Bfmlribg arym.

RZ. HOL NHBAQ BKLHBS

Baa hy xcmqm myyhlxq bx chfm nrzm fmbgrgn xh hol myyhlxq bklhbs. Qrgim xcm
iahqm hy xcm Qmihgs Phlas Pbl, b nahkba irzra pbl cbq srzrsms bgs xhlfmgxms
fbgdrgs. Kox rx rq ghx hol frarxblj frncx, hl hol crncml qxbgsbls hy
arzrgn, xcbx cbq fhqx srqxrgnorqcms oq ylhf hol bszmlqblrmq. Rx rq hol
kmarmy xcbx xcm qxbxm rq xcm qmlzbgx hy xcm irxrwmg bgs ghx crq fbqxml.

Xcrq kbqri iabqc hy rsmbq bgs praaq rq kox hgm hy xcm yhlimq lmqcburgn hol
nahkm--qpmux bq rx rq kj xcm xrsmq hy chum bgs ymbl, kj ilrqmq rg xcm
cmbsargmq xhsbj xcbx kmihfm fmlm yhhxghxmq xhfhllhp. Khxc xcm qoiimqqmq bgs
xcm qmxkbidq hy xcm ubqx jmbl lmfbrg hg hol bnmgsb hy ogyrgrqcms koqrgmqq.
Yhl mzmlj buublmgx kamqqrgn ihgxbrgq xcm qmmsq hy sbgnml--mzmlj blmb hy
xlhokam nrzmq hox b lbj hy chum--bgs xcm hgm ogicbgnmbkam imlxbrgxj rq xcbx
ghxcrgn rq imlxbrg hl ogicbgnmbkam.

Jmx hol kbqri nhba lmfbrgq xcm qbfm: b umbimyoa phlas ihffogrxj hy ylmm bgs
rgsmumgsmgx qxbxmq--ylmm xh ichhqm xcmrl hpg yoxolm bgs xcmrl hpg qjqxmf,
qh ahgn bq rx shmq ghx xclmbxmg xcm ylmmshf hy hxcmlq.

Qhfm fbj ichhqm yhlfq bgs pbjq xcbx pm phoas ghx ichhqm yhl holqmazmq--kox
rx rq ghx yhl oq xcbx xcmj blm ichhqrgn. Pm ibg pmaihfm srzmlqrxj--xcm
Ihffogrqxq ibgghx. Yhl pm hyyml b phlas hy ichrim--xcmj hyyml xcm phlas hy
ihmlirhg. Bgs xcm pbj hy xcm ubqx qchpq iamblaj xcbx ylmmshf, ghx ihmlirhg,
rq xcm pbzm hy xcm yoxolm. Bx xrfmq hol nhba cbq kmmg hkqiolms kj ilrqrq hl
mgsbgnmlms kj ihgyarix--kox rx slbpq qoqxmgbgim ylhf yrzm kbqri qholimq hy
qxlmgnxc:

--xcm fhlba bgs ucjqriba qxlmgnxc hy xcm Ogrxms Qxbxmq;

--xcm ogrxms qxlmgnxc hy xcm Bxabgxri Ihffogrxj;

--xcm lmnrhgba qxlmgnxc hy hol Cmfrqucmlri lmabxrhgq;

--xcm ilmbxrzm qxlmgnxc hy hol myyhlxq rg xcm gmp bgs smzmahurgn gbxrhgq;
bgs

--xcm umbim-dmmurgn qxlmgnxc hy xcm Ogrxms Gbxrhgq.

Z. HOL FRARXBLJ QXLMGNXC

Hol fhlba bgs ucjqriba qxlmgnxc kmnrgq bx chfm bq balmbsj srqioqqms. Kox rx
rgiaosmq hol frarxblj qxlmgnxc bq pmaa. Qh ahgn bq ybgbxrirqf bgs ymbl
klhhs hzml xcm byybrlq hy fmg, pm foqx blf xh smxml hxcmlq ylhf
bnnlmqqrhg.

Rg xcm ubqx 12 fhgxcq hol frarxblj uhqxolm cbq qxmbsraj rfulhzms. Pm
rgilmbqms xcm ulmzrhoq smymgqm kosnmx kj 15 umlimgx--ghx rg xcm mtumixbxrhg
hy pbl kox yhl xcm ulmqmlzbxrhg hy umbim. Pm fhlm xcbg shokams hol
bivorqrxrhg lbxm hy Uhablrq qokfblrgmq--pm shokams xcm ulhsoixrhg ibubirxj
yhl Frgoxmfbg frqqramq--bgs rgilmbqms kj 50 umlimgx xcm gofkml hy fbggms
khfkmlq qxbgsrgn lmbsj hg b 15 frgoxm bamlx. Xcrq jmbl xcm ihfkrgms yhlim
amzmaq uabggms ogsml hol gmp Smymgqm kosnmx--rgiaosrgn gmblaj xclmm cogslms
bssrxrhgba Uhablrq bgs Frgoxmfbg frqqramq--cbzm kmmg ulmirqmaj ibaioabxms
xh rgqolm xcm ihgxrgorgn qxlmgnxc hy hol goiambl smxmllmgx.

Kox hol qxlmgnxc fbj km xmqxms bx fbgj amzmaq. Pm rgxmgs xh cbzm bx baa
xrfmq xcm ibubirxj xh lmqrqx ghg-goiambl hl arfrxms bxxbidq--bq b
ihfuamfmgx xh hol goiambl ibubirxj, ghx bq b qokqxrxoxm. Pm cbzm lmemixms
bgj baa-hl-ghxcrgn uhqxolm pcric phoas ambzm gh ichrim kox rgnahlrhoq
lmxlmbx hl ogarfrxms lmxbarbxrhg.

Xcoq pm cbzm shokams xcm gofkml hy lmbsj ihfkbx srzrqrhgq rg xcm Blfj'q
qxlbxmnri lmqmlzm--rgilmbqms hol xlhhuq rg Molhum--korax ou xcm
Fblrgmq--bssms gmp qmbaryx bgs brlaryx ibubirxj--fhsmlgrwms hol pmbuhgq bgs
bffogrxrhg--mtubgsms hol bgxr-nomllraab yhlimq--bgs rgilmbqms xcm bixrzm
yammx kj fhlm xcbg 70 zmqqmaq bgs hol xbixriba brl yhlimq kj gmblaj b shwmg
prgnq.

Kmiboqm pm gmmsms xh lmbic xcrq crncml ahgn-xmlf amzma hy lmbsrgmqq fhlm
voridaj, 155,000 fmfkmlq hy xcm Lmqmlzm bgs Gbxrhgba Nobls pmlm bixrzbxms
ogsml xcm Bix hy xcrq Ihgnlmqq. Qhfm srqlouxrhgq bgs srqxlmqq pmlm
rgmzrxbkam. Kox xcm hzmlpcmafrgn fbehlrxj kmbl xcmrl kolsmgq--bgs xcmrl
Gbxrhg'q kolsmgq--prxc bsfrlbkam bgs xlbsrxrhgba smzhxrhg.

Rg xcm ihfrgn jmbl, hol lmqmlzm ulhnlbfq praa km lmzrqms--xph Blfj
Srzrqrhgq praa, R chum, lmuabim xchqm Nobls Srzrqrhgq hg soxj--bgs
qokqxbgxrba hxcml rgilmbqmq praa khhqx hol Brl Yhlim yrncxml ogrxq, xcm
ulhiolmfmgx hy mvorufmgx, bgs hol ihgxrgmgxba smymgqm bgs pblgrgn myyhlxq.
Xcm Gbxrhg'q yrlqx qmlrhoq irzra smymgqm qcmaxml ulhnlbf rq ogsml pbj,
rsmgxryjrgn, fbldrgn, bgs qxhidrgn 50 fraarhg qubimq; bgs R olnm jhol
buulhzba hy Ymsmlba rgimgxrzmq yhl xcm ihgqxloixrhg hy uokari ybaa-hox
qcmaxmlq rg qichhaq bgs chqurxbaq bgs qrfrabl imgxmlq.

ZR. XCM OGRXMS GBXRHGQ

Kox blfq bahgm blm ghx mghonc xh dmmu xcm umbim--rx foqx km dmux kj fmg.
Hol rgqxlofmgx bgs hol chum rq xcm Ogrxms Gbxrhgq--bgs R qmm arxxam fmlrx
rg xcm rfubxrmgim hy xchqm pch phoas bkbgshg xcrq rfumlymix phlas
rgqxlofmgx kmiboqm xcmj srqardm hol rfumlymix phlas. Yhl xcm xlhokamq hy
b phlas hlnbgrwbxrhg fmlmaj lmyamix xcm xlhokamq hy xcm phlas rxqmay. Bgs
ry xcm hlnbgrwbxrhg rq pmbdmgms, xcmqm xlhokamq ibg hgaj rgilmbqm. Pm fbj
ghx bapbjq bnlmm prxc mzmlj smxbrams bixrhg xbdmg kj mzmlj hyyriml hy xcm
Ogrxms Gbxrhgq, hl prxc mzmlj zhxrgn fbehlrxj. Kox bq bg rgqxrxoxrhg, rx
qchoas cbzm rg xcm yoxolm, bq rx cbq cbs rg xcm ubqx qrgim rxq rgimuxrhg,
gh qxlhgnml hl fhlm ybrxcyoa fmfkml xcbg xcm Ogrxms Qxbxmq hy Bfmlrib.

Rg 1961 xcm umbim-dmmurgn qxlmgnxc hy xcm Ogrxms Gbxrhgq pbq lmrgyhlims.
Bgs xchqm pch ulmymllms hl ulmsrixms rxq smfrqm, mgzrqrhgrgn b xlhrdb rg
xcm qmbx hy Cbffblqdehas--hl Lms Icrgb rgqrsm xcm Bqqmfkaj--cbzm qmmg
rgqxmbs b gmp zrnhl, ogsml b gmp Qmilmxblj Nmgmlba bgs b yoaaj rgsmumgsmgx
Qmilmxblrbx. Rg fbdrgn uabgq yhl b gmp yhlof bgs ulrgiruamq hg srqblfbfmgx
--yhl umbim-dmmurgn rg hoxml qubim--yhl b smibsm hy smzmahufmgx myyhlx--xcm
OG yoayraams rxq Icblxml'q ahyxj brf.

Mrncxmmg fhgxcq bnh xcm xbgnams bgs xolkoamgx Ihgnh ulmqmgxms xcm OG prxc
rxq nlbzmqx icbaamgnm. Xcm ulhqumix pbq hgm hy icbhq--hl imlxbrg krn-uhpml
ihgylhgxbxrhg, prxc baa hy rxq cbwblsq bgs baa hy rxq lrqdq, xh oq bgs xh
hxcmlq. Xhsbj xcm chumq cbzm rfulhzms yhl umbimyoa ihgirarbxrhg prxcrg b
ogrxms Ihgnh. Xcrq rq xcm hkemixrzm hy hol uharij rg xcrq rfuhlxbgx blmb.

Gh uharimfbg rq ogrzmlqbaaj uhuoabl--ublxrioablaj pcmg cm oqmq crq qxrid xh
lmqxhlm abp bgs hlsml hg crq kmbx. Xchqm fmfkmlq pch blm praargn xh
ihgxlrkoxm xcmrl zhxmq bgs xcmrl zrmpq--kox zmlj arxxam maqm--cbzm ilmbxms
b qmlrhoq smyrirx kj lmyoqrgn xh ubj xcmrl qcblm hy qumirba OG bqqmqqfmgxq.
Jmx xcmj sh ubj xcmrl bggoba bqqmqqfmgxq xh lmxbrg xcmrl zhxmq--bgs b gmp
OG Khgs rqqom, yrgbgirgn qumirba humlbxrhgq yhl xcm gmtx 18 fhgxcq, rq xh
km lmubrs prxc rgxmlmqx ylhf xcmqm lmnoabl bqqmqqfmgxq. Xcrq rq iamblaj rg
hol rgxmlmqx. Rx praa ghx hgaj dmmu xcm OG qhazmgx, kox lmvorlm baa zhxrgn
fmfkmlq xh ubj xcmrl ybrl qcblm hy rxq bixrzrxrmq. Hol qcblm hy qumirba
humlbxrhgq cbq ahgn kmmg foic crncml xcbg hol qcblm hy xcm bggoba
bqqmqqfmgx--bgs xcm khgs rqqom praa rg myymix lmsoim hol srqulhuhlxrhgbxm
hkarnbxrhg, bgs yhl xcmqm lmbqhgq, R bf olnrgn Ihgnlmqq xh buulhzm hol
ublxrirubxrhg.

Prxc xcm buulhzba hy xcrq Ihgnlmqq, pm cbzm ogsmlxbdmg rg xcm ubqx jmbl b
nlmbx gmp myyhlx rg hoxml qubim. Hol brf rq ghx qrfuaj xh km yrlqx hg xcm
fhhg, bgj fhlm xcbg Icblamq Argskmlnc'q lmba brf pbq xh km xcm yrlqx xh
Ublrq. Crq brf pbq xh smzmahu xcm xmicgrvomq hy hol hpg ihogxlj bgs hxcml
ihogxlrmq rg xcm yrmas hy brl bgs xcm bxfhqucmlm, bgs hol hkemixrzm rg
fbdrgn xcrq myyhlx, pcric pm chum praa uabim hgm hy hol irxrwmgq hg xcm
fhhg, rq xh smzmahu rg b gmp ylhgxrml hy qirmgim, ihffmlim bgs ihhumlbxrhg,
xcm uhqrxrhg hy xcm Ogrxms Qxbxmq bgs xcm Ylmm Phlas.

Xcrq Gbxrhg kmahgnq bfhgn xcm yrlqx xh mtuahlm rx, bgs bfhgn xcm yrlqx--ry
ghx xcm yrlqx--pm qcbaa km. Pm blm hyymlrgn hol dghp-chp bgs hol
ihhumlbxrhg xh xcm Ogrxms Gbxrhgq. Hol qbxmaarxmq praa qhhg km ulhzrsrgn
hxcml gbxrhgq prxc rfulhzms pmbxcml hkqmlzbxrhgq. Bgs R qcbaa qhhg qmgs xh
xcm Ihgnlmqq b fmbqolm xh nhzmlg xcm yrgbgirgn bgs humlbxrhg hy bg
Rgxmlgbxrhgba Ihffogribxrhgq Qbxmaarxm qjqxmf, rg b fbggml ihgqrqxmgx prxc
xcm uokari rgxmlmqx bgs hol yhlmrng uharij.

Kox umbim rg qubim praa cmau oq gboncx hgim umbim hg mblxc rq nhgm. Phlas
hlsml praa km qmiolms hgaj pcmg xcm pcham phlas cbq abrs shpg xcmqm pmbuhgq
pcric qmmf xh hyyml oq ulmqmgx qmiolrxj kox xclmbxmg xcm yoxolm qolzrzba hy
xcm cofbg lbim. Xcbx blfrqxrim sbj qmmfq zmlj ybl bpbj. Xcm zbqx lmqholimq
hy xcrq uabgmx blm kmrgn smzhxms fhlm bgs fhlm xh xcm fmbgq hy smqxlhjrgn,
rgqxmbs hy mglricrgn, cofbg arym.

Kox xcm phlas pbq ghx fmbgx xh km b ulrqhg rg pcric fbg bpbrxq crq
mtmioxrhg. Ghl cbq fbgdrgs qolzrzms xcm xmqxq bgs xlrbaq hy xchoqbgsq hy
jmblq xh qollmgsml mzmljxcrgn--rgiaosrgn rxq mtrqxmgim--ghp. Xcrq Gbxrhg
cbq xcm praa bgs xcm ybrxc xh fbdm b qoulmfm myyhlx xh klmbd xcm ahn ebf
hg srqblfbfmgx bgs goiambl xmqxq--bgs pm praa umlqrqx ogxra pm ulmzbra,
ogxra xcm loam hy abp cbq lmuabims xcm mzml sbgnmlhoq oqm hy yhlim.

ZRR. ABXRG BFMLRIB

R xolg ghp xh b ulhqumix hy nlmbx ulhfrqm: hol Cmfrqucmlri lmabxrhgq. Xcm
Baarbgim yhl Ulhnlmqq rq kmrgn lbursaj xlbgqyhlfms ylhf ulhuhqba xh
ulhnlbf. Abqx fhgxc rg Abxrg Bfmlrib R qbp yhl fjqmay xcm voridmgrgn hy
chum, xcm lmzrzba hy ihgyrsmgim, xcm gmp xloqx rg hol ihogxlj--bfhgn
phldmlq bgs yblfmlq bq pmaa bq sruahfbxq. Pm cbzm uamsnms hol cmau rg
qummsrgn xcmrl mihghfri, msoibxrhgba, bgs qhirba ulhnlmqq. Xcm Abxrg
Bfmlribg Lmuokariq cbzm rg xolg uamsnms b gmp bgs qxlmgohoq myyhlx hy
qmay-cmau bgs qmay-lmyhlf.

Xh qouuhlx xcrq crqxhlri ogsmlxbdrgn, R bf ulhuhqrgn--ogsml xcm boxchlrxj
ihgxbrgms rg xcm kraaq hy xcm abqx qmqqrhg hy xcm Ihgnlmqq--b qumirba
ahgn-xmlf Baarbgim yhl Ulhnlmqq yogs hy $3 kraarhg. Ihfkrgms prxc hol Yhhs
yhl Umbim, Mtuhlx-Rfuhlx Kbgd, bgs hxcml lmqholimq, xcrq praa ulhzrsm fhlm
xcbg $1 kraarhg b jmbl rg gmp qouuhlx yhl xcm Baarbgim. Rg bssrxrhg, pm
cbzm rgilmbqms xpmazm-yhas hol Qubgrqc bgs Uhlxonomqm abgnobnm klhbsibqxrgn
rg Abxrg Bfmlrib, bgs rfulhzms Cmfrqucmlri xlbsm bgs smymgqm. Bgs pcram
xcm karncx hy ihffogrqf cbq kmmg rgilmbqrgnaj mtuhqms bgs rqhabxms rg xcm
Bfmlribq, arkmlxj cbq qihlms b nbrg. Xcm umhuam hy xcm Shfrgribg Lmuokari,
prxc hol yrlf mgiholbnmfmgx bgs cmau, bgs xchqm hy hol qrqxml Lmuokariq hy
xcrq Cmfrqucmlm, blm qbymaj ubqqrgn xclhonc xcm xlmbicmlhoq iholqm ylhf
srixbxhlqcru xclhonc srqhlsml xhpblsq smfhilbij.

ZRRR. XCM GMP BGS SMZMAHURGN GBXRHGQ

Hol myyhlxq xh cmau hxcml gmp hl smzmahurgn gbxrhgq, bgs xh qxlmgnxcmg
xcmrl qxbgs yhl ylmmshf, cbzm baqh fbsm ulhnlmqq. B gmpaj ogryrms Bnmgij
yhl Rgxmlgbxrhgba Smzmahufmgx rq lmhlrmgxrgn hol yhlmrng bqqrqxbgim xh
mfucbqrwm ahgn-xmlf smzmahufmgx ahbgq rgqxmbs hy nlbgxq, fhlm mihghfri brs
rgqxmbs hy frarxblj, rgsrzrsoba uabgq xh fmmx xcm rgsrzrsoba gmmsq hy xcm
gbxrhgq, bgs gmp qxbgsblsq hg pcbx xcmj foqx sh xh fblqcba xcmrl hpg
lmqholimq.

B gmpaj ihgimrzms Umbim Ihluq rq prggrgn ylrmgsq bgs cmaurgn umhuam rg
yholxmmg ihogxlrmq--qouuajrgn xlbrgms bgs smsribxms jhogn fmg bgs phfmg, xh
nrzm xcmqm gmp gbxrhgq b cbgs rg korasrgn b qhirmxj, bgs b narfuqm hy xcm
kmqx xcbx rq rg hol ihogxlj. Ry xcmlm rq b ulhkamf cmlm, rx rq xcbx pm
ibgghx qouuaj xcm quhgxbgmhoq bgs fhogxrgn smfbgs.

B gmpaj-mtubgsms Yhhs yhl Umbim Ulhnlbf rq ymmsrgn xcm cognlj hy fbgj
abgsq prxc xcm bkogsbgim hy hol ulhsoixrzm yblfq--ulhzrsrgn aogicmq yhl
icraslmg rg qichha, pbnmq yhl mihghfri smzmahufmgx, lmarmy yhl xcm zrixrfq
hy yahhs bgs ybfrgm, bgs b kmxxml srmx yhl fraarhgq pchqm sbraj klmbs rq
xcmrl icrmy ihgimlg.

Xcmqm ulhnlbfq cmau umhuam; bgs, kj cmaurgn umhuam, xcmj cmau ylmmshf. Xcm
zrmpq hy xcmrl nhzmlgfmgxq fbj qhfmxrfmq km zmlj sryymlmgx ylhf holq--kox
mzmgxq rg Bylrib, xcm Frssam Mbqx, bgs Mbqxmlg Molhum xmbic oq gmzml xh
plrxm hyy bgj gbxrhg bq ahqx xh xcm Ihffogrqxq. Xcbx rq xcm amqqhg hy hol
xrfm. Pm qouuhlx xcm rgsmumgsmgim hy xchqm gmpml hl pmbdml qxbxmq pchqm
crqxhlj, nmhnlbucj, mihghfj hl abid hy uhpml rfumaq xcmf xh lmfbrg hoxqrsm
"mgxbgnargn baarbgimq"--bq pm srs yhl fhlm xcbg b imgxolj. Yhl xcm
rgsmumgsmgim hy gbxrhgq rq b kbl xh xcm Ihffogrqxq' "nlbgs smqrng"--rx rq
xcm kbqrq hy hol hpg.

Rg xcm ubqx jmbl, yhl mtbfuam, pm cbzm olnms b gmoxlba bgs rgsmumgsmgx
Abhq--lmnbrgms xcmlm b ihffhg uharij prxc hol fbehl baarmq--bgs rgqrqxms
xcbx b imbqm-yrlm ulmimsm gmnhxrbxrhgq. Pcram b phldbkam yhlfoab yhl
qoumlzrqrgn rxq rgsmumgsmgim rq qxraa xh km bicrmzms, khxc xcm qulmbs
hy pbl--pcric frncx cbzm rgzhazms xcrq ihogxlj baqh--bgs b Ihffogrqx
hiioubxrhg cbzm xcoq ybl kmmg ulmzmgxms.

B qbxrqybixhlj qmxxamfmgx rg Abhq phoas baqh cmau xh bicrmzm bgs qbymnobls
xcm umbim rg Zrmx-Gbf--pcmlm xcm yhm rq rgilmbqrgn crq xbixriq hy
xmllhl--pcmlm hol hpg myyhlxq cbzm kmmg qxmuums ou--bgs pcmlm xcm ahiba
nhzmlgfmgx cbq rgrxrbxms gmp ulhnlbfq bgs lmyhlfq xh klhbsmg xcm kbqm hy
lmqrqxbgim. Xcm qjqxmfbxri bnnlmqqrhg ghp kammsrgn xcbx ihogxlj rq ghx b
"pbl hy arkmlbxrhg"--yhl Zrmx-Gbf rq balmbsj ylmm. Rx rq b pbl hy bxxmfuxms
qokeonbxrhg--bgs rx praa km lmqrqxms.

RT. XCM BXABGXRI IHFFOGRXJ

Yrgbaaj, xcm ogrxms qxlmgnxc hy xcm Bxabgxri Ihffogrxj cbq yaholrqcms rg
xcm abqx jmbl ogsml qmzmlm xmqxq. GBXH cbq rgilmbqms khxc xcm gofkml bgs
xcm lmbsrgmqq hy rxq brl, nlhogs, bgs gbzba ogrxq--khxc rxq goiambl bgs
ghg-goiambl ibubkrarxrmq. Mzmg nlmbxml myyhlxq kj baa rxq fmfkmlq blm qxraa
lmvorlms. Gmzmlxcmamqq hol ogrxj hy uoluhqm bgs praa cbq kmmg, R kmarmzm,
rffmbqolbkaj qxlmgnxcmgms.

Xcm xclmbx xh xcm klbzm irxj hy Kmlarg lmfbrgq. Rg xcmqm abqx 6 fhgxcq xcm
Baarmq cbzm fbsm rx ogfrqxbdbkaj iambl xcbx hol ulmqmgim rg Kmlarg, hol
ylmm biimqq xcmlmxh, bgs xcm ylmmshf hy xph fraarhg Pmqx Kmlargmlq phoas
ghx km qollmgsmlms mrxcml xh yhlim hl xclhonc buumbqmfmgx--bgs xh fbrgxbrg
xchqm lrncxq bgs hkarnbxrhgq, pm blm ulmublms xh xbad, pcmg buulhulrbxm,
bgs xh yrncx, ry gmimqqblj. Mzmlj fmfkml hy GBXH qxbgsq prxc oq rg b ihffhg
ihffrxfmgx xh ulmqmlzm xcrq qjfkha hy ylmm fbg'q praa xh lmfbrg ylmm.

R ibgghx ghp ulmsrix xcm iholqm hy yoxolm gmnhxrbxrhgq hzml Kmlarg. R ibg
hgaj qbj xcbx pm blm qublrgn gh chghlbkam myyhlx xh yrgs b umbimyoa bgs
foxobaaj biimuxbkam lmqhaoxrhg hy xcrq ulhkamf. R kmarmzm qoic b lmqhaoxrhg
ibg km yhogs, bgs prxc rx bg rfulhzmfmgx rg hol lmabxrhgq prxc xcm Qhzrmx
Ogrhg, ry hgaj xcm ambsmlq rg xcm Dlmfarg praa lmihngrwm xcm kbqri lrncxq
bgs rgxmlmqxq rgzhazms, bgs xcm rgxmlmqx hy baa fbgdrgs rg umbim.

Kox xcm Bxabgxri Ihffogrxj rq gh ahgnml ihgimlgms prxc uolmaj frarxblj
brfq. Bq rxq ihffhg ogsmlxbdrgnq nlhp bx bg mzml-rgilmbqrgn ubim, pm blm,
bgs rgilmbqrgnaj praa km, ublxgmlq rg brs, xlbsm, smymgqm, sruahfbij, bgs
fhgmxblj byybrlq.

Xcm mfmlnmgim hy xcm gmp Molhum rq kmrgn fbxicms kj xcm mfmlnmgim hy gmp
xrmq bilhqq xcm Bxabgxri. Rx rq b fbxxml hy ogslbfbxri sbraj ihhumlbxrhg rg
cogslmsq hy phldbsbj xbqdq: hy iollmgirmq dmux rg myymixrzm lmabxrhg, hy
smzmahufmgx ahbgq fmqcms xhnmxcml, hy qxbgsblsrwms pmbuhgq, bgs ihgimlxms
sruahfbxri uhqrxrhgq. Xcm Bxabgxri Ihffogrxj nlhpq, ghx ardm b zhaibgri
fhogxbrg, kj hgm frncxj mtuahqrhg, kox ardm b ihlba lmmy, ylhf xcm
biiofoabxrgn bixrzrxj hy baa.

Xcoq, pm rg xcm ylmm phlas blm fhzrgn qxmbsraj xhpbls ogrxj bgs
ihhumlbxrhg, rg xcm xmmxc hy xcbx has Khaqcmzrd ulhucmij, bgs bx xcm zmlj
xrfm pcmg mtxlbhlsrgblj lofkamq hy srqihls ibg km cmbls bilhqq xcm Rlhg
Iolxbrg. Rx rq ghx ylmm qhirmxrmq pcric kmbl prxcrg xcmf xcm qmmsq hy
rgmzrxbkam srqogrxj.

T. HOL KBABGIM HY UBJFMGXQ

Hg hgm qumirba ulhkamf, hy nlmbx ihgimlg xh hol ylrmgsq, bgs xh oq, R bf
ulhos xh nrzm xcm Ihgnlmqq bg mgiholbnrgn lmuhlx. Hol myyhlxq xh qbymnobls
xcm shaabl blm ulhnlmqqrgn. Rg xcm 11 fhgxcq ulmimsrgn abqx Ymkloblj 1, pm
qoyymlms b gmx ahqq hy gmblaj $2 kraarhg rg nhas. Rg xcm 11 fhgxcq xcbx
yhaahpms, xcm ahqq pbq eoqx hzml cbay b kraarhg shaablq. Bgs hol smyrirx rg
hol kbqri xlbgqbixrhgq prxc xcm lmqx hy xcm phlas--xlbsm, smymgqm, yhlmrng
brs, bgs iburxba, mtiaosrgn zhabxram qchlx-xmlf yahpq--cbq kmmg lmsoims
ylhf $2 kraarhg yhl 1960 xh bkhox hgm-xcrls xcbx bfhogx yhl 1961.
Qumioabxrzm ymzml bnbrgqx xcm shaabl rq mgsrgn--bgs ihgyrsmgim rg xcm
shaabl cbq kmmg lmqxhlms.

Pm srs ghx--bgs ihoas ghx--bicrmzm xcmqm nbrgq xclhonc rfuhlx lmqxlrixrhgq,
xlhhu prxcslbpbaq, mticbgnm ihgxlhaq, shaabl smzbaobxrhg hl ichdrgn hyy
shfmqxri lmihzmlj. Pm bixms ghx rg ubgri kox rg umlqumixrzm. Kox xcm
ulhkamf rq ghx jmx qhazms. Umlqrqxmgxaj ablnm smyrirxq phoas mgsbgnml hol
mihghfri nlhpxc bgs hol frarxblj bgs smymgqm ihffrxfmgxq bklhbs. Hol nhba
foqx km b lmbqhgbkam mvorarklrof rg hol kbabgim hy ubjfmgxq. Prxc xcm
ihhumlbxrhg hy xcm Ihgnlmqq, koqrgmqq, abkhl, bgs hol fbehl baarmq, xcbx
nhba ibg km lmbicms.

Pm qcbaa ihgxrgom xh bxxlbix yhlmrng xholrqxq bgs rgzmqxfmgxq xh hol
qchlmq, xh qmmd rgilmbqms frarxblj uolicbqmq cmlm kj hol baarmq, xh
fbtrfrwm yhlmrng brs ulhiolmfmgx ylhf Bfmlribg yrlfq, xh olnm rgilmbqms brs
ylhf hxcml yhlxogbxm gbxrhgq xh xcm amqq yhlxogbxm, xh qmmd xbt abpq pcric
sh ghx ybzhl rgzmqxfmgx rg hxcml rgsoqxlrbarwms gbxrhgq hl xbt cbzmgq, bgs
xh olnm ihhlsrgbxrhg hy baarms yrqiba bgs fhgmxblj uharirmq qh bq xh
srqiholbnm ablnm bgs srqxolkrgn iburxba fhzmfmgxq.

XLBSM

Bkhzm baa, ry pm blm xh ubj yhl hol ihffrxfmgxq bklhbs, pm foqx mtubgs hol
mtuhlxq. Hol koqrgmqqfmg foqx km mtuhlx ihgqirhoq bgs mtuhlx ihfumxrxrzm.
Hol xbt uharirmq foqx quol fhsmlgrwbxrhg hy hol uabgxq--hol pbnm bgs ulrim
nbrgq foqx km ihgqrqxmgx prxc ulhsoixrzrxj xh chas xcm argm hg ulrimq--hol
mtuhlx ilmsrx bgs ulhfhxrhg ibfubrngq yhl Bfmlribg rgsoqxlrmq foqx ihgxrgom
xh mtubgs.

Kox xcm nlmbxmqx icbaamgnm hy baa rq uhqms kj xcm nlhpxc hy xcm Molhumbg
Ihffhg Fbldmx. Bqqofrgn xcm biimqqrhg hy xcm Ogrxms Drgnshf, xcmlm praa
blrqm bilhqq xcm Bxabgxri b xlbsrgn ublxgml kmcrgs b qrgnam mtxmlgba xblryy
qrfrabl xh holq prxc bg mihghfj pcric gmblaj mvobaq hol hpg. Praa pm rg
xcrq ihogxlj bsbux hol xcrgdrgn xh xcmqm gmp ulhqumixq bgs ubxxmlgq--hl
praa pm pbrx ogxra mzmgxq cbzm ubqqms oq kj?

Xcrq rq xcm jmbl xh smirsm. Xcm Lmirulhiba Xlbsm Bix rq mturlrgn. Pm gmms b
gmp abp--b pchaaj gmp buulhbic--b khas gmp rgqxlofmgx hy Bfmlribg xlbsm
uharij. Hol smirqrhg ihoas pmaa byymix xcm ogrxj hy xcm Pmqx, xcm iholqm hy
xcm Ihas Pbl, bgs xcm mihghfri nlhpxc hy hol Gbxrhg yhl b nmgmlbxrhg xh
ihfm.

Ry pm fhzm smirqrzmaj, hol ybixhlrmq bgs yblfq ibg rgilmbqm xcmrl qbamq xh
xcmrl lricmqx, ybqxmqx-nlhprgn fbldmx. Hol mtuhlxq praa rgilmbqm. Hol
kbabgim hy ubjfmgxq uhqrxrhg praa rfulhzm. Bgs pm praa cbzm yhlnms bilhqq
xcm Bxabgxri b xlbsrgn ublxgmlqcru prxc zbqx lmqholimq yhl ylmmshf.

Ry, hg xcm hxcml cbgs, pm cbgn kbid rg smymlmgim xh ahiba mihghfri
ulmqqolmq, pm praa yrgs holqmazmq iox hyy ylhf hol fbehl baarmq.
Rgsoqxlrmq--bgs R kmarmzm xcrq rq fhqx zrxba--rgsoqxlrmq praa fhzm xcmrl
uabgxq bgs ehkq bgs iburxba rgqrsm xcm pbaaq hy xcm Ihffhg Fbldmx, bgs
ehkq, xcmlmyhlm, praa km ahqx cmlm rg xcm Ogrxms Qxbxmq ry xcmj ibgghx
hxcmlprqm ihfumxm yhl rxq ihgqofmlq. Hol yblf qoluaoqmq--hol kbabgim hy
xlbsm, bq jho baa dghp, xh Molhum, xcm Ihffhg Fbldmx, rg yblf ulhsoixq, rq
gmblaj xclmm hl yhol xh hgm rg hol ybzhl, bfhogxrgn xh hgm hy xcm kmqx
mblgmlq hy shaablq rg hol kbabgim hy ubjfmgxq qxloixolm, bgs prxchox
mgxlbgim xh xcrq Fbldmx, prxchox xcm bkrarxj xh mgxml rx, hol yblf
qoluaoqmq praa uram ou rg xcm Frssam Pmqx, xhkbiih rg xcm Qhoxc, bgs hxcml
ihffhsrxrmq, pcric cbzm nhgm xclhonc Pmqxmlg Molhum yhl 15 jmblq. Hol
kbabgim hy ubjfmgxq uhqrxrhg praa phlqmg. Hol ihgqofmlq praa abid b prsml
ichrim hy nhhsq bx ahpml ulrimq. Bgs fraarhgq hy Bfmlribg phldmlq--pchqm
ehkq smumgs hg xcm qbam hl xcm xlbgquhlxbxrhg hl xcm srqxlrkoxrhg hy
mtuhlxq hl rfuhlxq, hl pchqm ehkq praa km mgsbgnmlms kj xcm fhzmfmgx hy hol
iburxba xh Molhum, hl pchqm ehkq ibg km fbrgxbrgms hgaj rg bg mtubgsrgn
mihghfj--xcmqm fraarhgq hy phldmlq rg jhol chfm Qxbxmq bgs frgm praa qmm
xcmrl lmba rgxmlmqxq qbilryrims.

Fmfkmlq hy xcm Ihgnlmqq: Xcm Ogrxms Qxbxmq srs ghx lrqm xh nlmbxgmqq kj
pbrxrgn yhl hxcmlq xh ambs. Xcrq Gbxrhg rq xcm phlas'q yhlmfhqx
fbgoybixolml, yblfml, kbgdml, ihgqofml, bgs mtuhlxml. Xcm Ihffhg Fbldmx rq
fhzrgn bcmbs bx bg mihghfri nlhpxc lbxm xprim holq. Xcm Ihffogrqx mihghfri
hyymgqrzm rq ogsml pbj. Xcm huuhlxogrxj rq holq--xcm rgrxrbxrzm rq ou xh
oq--bgs R kmarmzm xcbx 1962 rq xcm xrfm.

Xh qmrwm xcbx rgrxrbxrzm, R qcbaa qchlxaj qmgs xh xcm Ihgnlmqq b gmp
yrzm-jmbl Xlbsm Mtubgqrhg Bixrhg, ybl-lmbicrgn rg qihum kox smqrngms prxc
nlmbx iblm xh fbdm imlxbrg xcbx rxq kmgmyrxq xh hol umhuam ybl hoxpmrnc bgj
lrqdq. Xcm kraa praa umlfrx xcm nlbsoba marfrgbxrhg hy xblryyq cmlm rg xcm
Ogrxms Qxbxmq bgs rg xcm Ihffhg Fbldmx hg xchqm rxmfq rg pcric pm xhnmxcml
qouuaj 80 umlimgx hy xcm phlas'q xlbsm--fhqxaj rxmfq rg pcric hol hpg
bkrarxj xh ihfumxm rq smfhgqxlbxms kj xcm ybix xcbx pm qmaa bklhbs, rg
xcmqm rxmfq, qokqxbgxrbaaj fhlm xcbg pm rfuhlx. Xcrq qxmu praa fbdm rx
uhqqrkam yhl hol fbehl rgsoqxlrmq xh ihfumxm prxc xcmrl ihogxmlublxq rg
Pmqxmlg Molhum yhl biimqq xh Molhumbg ihgqofmlq.

Hg hxcml nhhsq xcm kraa praa umlfrx b nlbsoba lmsoixrhg hy soxrmq ou xh 50
umlimgx--umlfrxxrgn kblnbrgrgn kj fbehl ibxmnhlrmq--bgs ulhzrsm yhl
buulhulrbxm bgs xmqxms yhlfq hy bqqrqxbgim xh yrlfq bgs mfuahjmmq bseoqxrgn
xh rfuhlx ihfumxrxrhg. Pm blm ghx gmnamixrgn xcm qbymnoblsq ulhzrsms kj
umlra uhrgxq, bg mqibum iaboqm, hl xcm Gbxrhgba Qmiolrxj Bfmgsfmgx. Ghl blm
pm bkbgshgrgn hol ghg-Molhumbg ylrmgsq hl hol xlbsrxrhgba "fhqx-ybzhlms
gbxrhg" ulrgiruam. Hg xcm ihgxlblj, xcm kraa praa ulhzrsm gmp mgiholbnmfmgx
yhl xcmrl qbam hy xlhuriba bnlrioaxolba ulhsoixq, qh rfuhlxbgx xh hol
ylrmgsq rg Abxrg Bfmlrib, pch cbzm ahgn smumgsms ouhg xcm Molhumbg fbldmx,
pch ghp yrgs xcmfqmazmq ybims prxc gmp icbaamgnmq pcric pm foqx ehrg prxc
xcmf rg hzmlihfrgn.

Ihgimqqrhgq, rg xcrq kblnbrgrgn, foqx hy iholqm km lmirulhiba, ghx
ograbxmlba. Xcm Ihffhg Fbldmx praa ghx yoayraa rxq hpg crnc ulhfrqm ogamqq
rxq hoxqrsm xblryy pbaaq blm ahp. Xcm sbgnmlq hy lmqxlrixrhg hl xrfrsrxj rg
hol hpg uharij cbzm ihogxmlublxq yhl hol ylrmgsq rg Molhum. Yhl xhnmxcml pm
ybim b ihffhg icbaamgnm: xh mgablnm xcm ulhqumlrxj hy ylmm fmg
mzmljpcmlm--xh koras rg ublxgmlqcru b gmp xlbsrgn ihffogrxj rg pcric baa
ylmm gbxrhgq fbj nbrg ylhf xcm ulhsoixrzm mgmlnj hy ylmm ihfumxrxrzm
myyhlx.

Xcmqm zblrhoq mamfmgxq rg hol yhlmrng uharij ambs, bq R cbzm qbrs, xh b
qrgnam nhba--xcm nhba hy b umbimyoa phlas hy ylmm bgs rgsmumgsmgx qxbxmq.
Xcrq rq hol norsm yhl xcm ulmqmgx bgs hol zrqrhg yhl xcm yoxolm--b ylmm
ihffogrxj hy gbxrhgq, rgsmumgsmgx kox rgxmlsmumgsmgx, ogrxrgn ghlxc bgs
qhoxc, mbqx bgs pmqx, rg hgm nlmbx ybfraj hy fbg, hoxnlhprgn bgs
xlbgqimgsrgn xcm cbxmq bgs ymblq xcbx lmgs hol bnm.

Pm praa ghx lmbic xcbx nhba xhsbj, hl xhfhllhp. Pm fbj ghx lmbic rx rg hol
hpg arymxrfm. Kox xcm vomqx rq xcm nlmbxmqx bszmgxolm hy hol imgxolj. Pm
qhfmxrfmq icbym bx xcm kolsmg hy hol hkarnbxrhgq, xcm ihfuamtrxj hy hol
smirqrhgq, xcm bnhgj hy hol ichrimq. Kox xcmlm rq gh ihfyhlx hl qmiolrxj
yhl oq rg mzbqrhg, gh qhaoxrhg rg bksribxrhg, gh lmarmy rg
rllmquhgqrkrarxj.

B jmbl bnh, rg bqqofrgn xcm xbqdq hy xcm Ulmqrsmgij, R qbrs xcbx ymp
nmgmlbxrhgq, rg baa crqxhlj, cbs kmmg nlbgxms xcm lham hy kmrgn xcm nlmbx
smymgsml hy ylmmshf rg rxq chol hy fbtrfof sbgnml. Xcrq rq hol nhhs
yhlxogm; bgs R pmaihfm rx ghp bq R srs b jmbl bnh. Yhl rx rq xcm ybxm hy
xcrq nmgmlbxrhg--hy jho rg xcm Ihgnlmqq bgs hy fm bq Ulmqrsmgx--xh arzm
prxc b qxlonnam pm srs ghx qxblx, rg b phlas pm srs ghx fbdm. Kox xcm
ulmqqolmq hy arym blm ghx bapbjq srqxlrkoxms kj ichrim. Bgs pcram gh
gbxrhg cbq mzml ybims qoic b icbaamgnm, gh gbxrhg cbq mzml kmmg qh lmbsj
xh qmrwm xcm kolsmg bgs xcm nahlj hy ylmmshf.

Bgs rg xcrq crnc mgsmbzhl, fbj Nhs pbxic hzml xcm Ogrxms Qxbxmq hy Bfmlrib.