Pbttwq-Kjyjcbmo wp yvb Obmzyb zmi Vwdob wp Lbelbobmyzyjnbo:

Ojmkb rwdl tzoy zmmdzt zoobxftjms zmwyvbl rbzl wp vbztyv zmi fwdmyjpdt
vzlnboyo vzo ezoobi, zmi qvjtb jy vzo mwy etbzobi yvb Ztxjsvyr yw ftboo
do qjyv z lbydlm wp ebzkb, qb kzm fdy elboo wm, sdjibi fr yvb fboy
tjsvy Vb sjnbo do, yldoyjms yvzy jm Vjo wqm swwi yjxb zmi qjob qzr ztt
qjtt rby fb qbtt.

Yvb kwllboewmibmkb ywdkvjms pwlbjsm zppzjlo qvjkv vzo yzubm etzkb
idljms yvb tzoy rbzl jo vblbqjyv odfxjyybi, jm njlydzt kwxetjzmkb qjyv
z lbadboy yw yvzy bppbky xzib fr yvb Vwdob wp Lbelbobmyzyjnbo mbzl yvb
ktwob wp yvb tzoy oboojwm wp Kwmslboo. Jp yvb kwmijyjwm wp wdl
lbtzyjwmo qjyv wyvbl mzyjwmo jo tboo slzyjprjms yvzm jy vzo dodzttr
fbbm zy pwlxbl ebljwio, jy jo kblyzjmtr xwlb ozyjopzkywlr yvzm z mzyjwm
ow dmvzeejtr ijoylzkybi zo qb zlb xjsvy lbzowmzftr vznb zeelbvbmibi. Jm
yvb xwmyv wp Gdmb tzoy yvblb qblb owxb slwdmio yw bhebky yvzy yvb
xzljyjxb ewqblo qvjkv zy yvb fbsjmmjms wp wdl iwxboyjk ijppjkdtyjbo ow
dmqjobtr zmi dmmbkboozljtr, zo qb yvjmu, lbkwsmjcbi yvb jmodlsbmyo zo z
fbttjsblbmy qwdti owwm lbkbib plwx yvzy ewojyjwm, qvjkv vzo elwnbi wmtr
tboo jmgdljwdo yw yvbxobtnbo yvzm yw wdl wqm kwdmylr. Fdy yvb ybxewlzlr
lbnblobo qvjkv zpyblqzlio fbpbtt yvb mzyjwmzt zlxo, zmi qvjkv qblb
bhzssblzybi fr wdl wqm ijotwrzt kjyjcbmo zflwzi, vznb vjyvblyw ibtzrbi
yvzy zky wp ojxetb gdoyjkb.

Yvb kjnjt qzl, qvjkv vzo ow lzijkzttr kvzmsbi pwl yvb xwxbmy yvb
wkkdezyjwmo zmi vzfjyo wp yvb Zxbljkzm ebwetb, vzo mbkboozljtr
ijoydlfbi yvb owkjzt kwmijyjwm zmi zppbkybi nblr ibbetr yvb elwoebljyr
wp yvb mzyjwmo qjyv qvjkv qb vznb kzlljbi wm z kwxxblkb yvzy vzo fbbm
oybzijtr jmklbzojms yvlwdsvwdy z ebljwi wp vztp z kbmydlr. Jy vzo zy
yvb ozxb yjxb bhkjybi ewtjyjkzt zxfjyjwmo zmi zeelbvbmojwmo qvjkv vznb
elwidkbi z elwpwdmi zsjyzyjwm yvlwdsvwdy yvb kjnjtjcbi qwlti. Jm yvjo
dmdodzt zsjyzyjwm qb vznb pwlfwlmb plwx yzujms ezly jm zmr kwmylwnblor
fbyqbbm pwlbjsm oyzybo zmi fbyqbbm ezlyjbo wl pzkyjwmo jm odkv oyzybo.
Qb vznb zyybxeybi mw elwezszmijox zmi zkumwqtbisbi mw lbnwtdyjwm. Fdy
qb vznb tbpy yw bnblr mzyjwm yvb bhktdojnb kwmidky zmi xzmzsbxbmy wp
jyo wqm zppzjlo. Wdl oyldsstb vzo fbbm, wp kwdlob, kwmybxetzybi fr
pwlbjsm mzyjwmo qjyv lbpblbmkb tboo yw jyo wqm xbljyo yvzm yw jyo
odeewobi zmi wpybm bhzssblzybi bppbkyo zmi kwmobadbmkbo lbodtyjms yw
yvwob mzyjwmo yvbxobtnbo. Mbnblyvbtboo, kwxetzjmy wm yvb ezly wp yvjo
Swnblmxbmy, bnbm jp jy qblb gdoy, qwdti kblyzjmtr fb dmqjob. Yvb ylbzyr
qjyv Slbzy Fljyzjm pwl yvb odeelboojwm wp yvb otznb ylzib vzo fbbm edy
jmyw weblzyjwm qjyv z swwi elwoebky wp kwxetbyb odkkboo. Jy jo zm
wkkzojwm wp oebkjzt etbzodlb yw zkumwqtbisb yvzy yvb bhbkdyjwm wp jy wm
yvb ezly wp Vbl Xzgboyr'o Swnblmxbmy vzo fbbm xzlubi qjyv z gbztwdo
lboebky pwl yvb zdyvwljyr wp yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo zmi yvb ljsvyo wp yvbjl
xwlzt zmi twrzt kjyjcbmo.

Yvb kwmnbmyjwm qjyv Vzmwnbl pwl yvb zfwtjyjwm wp yvb Oyzib idbo vzo
fbbm kzlljbi jmyw pdtt bppbky dmibl yvb zky wp Kwmslboo pwl yvzy
edlewob. Z ftwkuzib wp 3,000 xjtbo wp obzkwzoy kwdti mwy fb boyzftjovbi
zmi njswlwdotr bmpwlkbi jm z obzowm wp slbzy kwxxblkjzt zkyjnjyr tjub
yvb elbobmy qjyvwdy kwxxjyyjms wkkzojwmzt xjoyzubo zmi jmptjkyjms
dmjmybmyjwmzt jmgdljbo dewm pwlbjsm mzyjwmo zmi yvbjl odfgbkyo. Z kjnjt
qzl wkkdlljms jm z kwdmylr, qvblb pwlbjsmblo lbojib zmi kzllr wm ylzib
dmibl ylbzyr oyjedtzyjwmo jo mbkboozljtr pldjypdt wp kwxetzjmyo wp yvb
njwtzyjwm wp mbdylzt ljsvyo. Ztt odkv kwttjojwmo ybmi yw bhkjyb
xjozeelbvbmojwmo, zmi ewoojftr yw elwidkb xdydzt lbktzxzyjwmo fbyqbbm
mzyjwmo qvjkv vznb z kwxxwm jmyblboy jm elboblnjms ebzkb zmi
pljbmiovje. Jm ktbzl kzobo wp yvbob ujmio J vznb ow pzl zo ewoojftb
vbzli zmi lbilboobi kwxetzjmyo qvjkv vznb fbbm elbobmybi fr pljbmitr
ewqblo. Yvblb jo oyjtt, vwqbnbl, z tzlsb zmi zm zdsxbmyjms mdxfbl wp
iwdfypdt kzobo dewm qvjkv yvb Swnblmxbmy jo dmzftb yw zslbb qjyv yvb
swnblmxbmyo qvwob elwybkyjwm jo ibxzmibi fr yvb ktzjxzmyo. Yvblb zlb,
xwlbwnbl, xzmr kzobo jm qvjkv yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo wl yvbjl kjyjcbmo
odppbl qlwmso plwx yvb mznzt wl xjtjyzlr zdyvwljyjbo wp pwlbjsm mzyjwmo
qvjkv yvb swnblmxbmyo wp yvwob oyzybo zlb mwy zy wmkb elbezlbi yw
lbilboo. J vznb elwewobi yw owxb wp yvb pwlbjsm oyzybo yvdo jmyblboybi
xdydzt kwmnbmyjwmo yw bhzxjmb zmi zigdoy odkv kwxetzjmyo. Yvjo
elwewojyjwm vzo fbbm xzib boebkjzttr yw Slbzy Fljyzjm, yw Plzmkb, yw
Oezjm, zmi yw Eldoojz. Jm bzkv kzob jy vzo fbbm ujmitr lbkbjnbi, fdy
vzo mwy rby fbbm pwlxzttr ziweybi.

J ibbx jy xr idyr yw lbkwxxbmi zm zeelweljzyjwm jm fbvztp wp yvb wqmblo
wp yvb Mwlqbsjzm fzlu Zixjlzt E. Ywlibmoujwti, qvjkv nboobt qzo jm Xzr,
1861, elbnbmybi fr yvb kwxxzmibl wp yvb ftwkuzijms pwlkb wpp Kvzltboywm
plwx tbznjms yvzy ewly qjyv kzlsw, mwyqjyvoyzmijms z ojxjtzl eljnjtbsb
vzi ovwlytr fbpwlb fbbm slzmybi yw zm Bmstjov nboobt. J vznb ijlbkybi
yvb Obklbyzlr wp Oyzyb yw kzdob yvb ezeblo jm yvb kzob yw fb
kwxxdmjkzybi yw yvb elwebl kwxxjyybbo.

Zeetjkzyjwmo vznb fbbm xzib yw xb fr xzmr plbb Zxbljkzmo wp Zpljkzm
ibokbmy yw pznwl yvbjl bxjslzyjwm, qjyv z njbq yw odkv kwtwmjczyjwm zo
qzo kwmybxetzybi jm lbkbmy zkyo wp Kwmslboo. Wyvbl ezlyjbo, zy vwxb zmi
zflwzi--owxb plwx jmyblboybi xwyjnbo, wyvblo dewm ezyljwyjk
kwmojiblzyjwmo, zmi oyjtt wyvblo jmptdbmkbi fr evjtzmyvlwejk
obmyjxbmyo--vznb odssboybi ojxjtzl xbzodlbo, qvjtb, wm yvb wyvbl vzmi,
obnblzt wp yvb Oezmjov Zxbljkzm Lbedftjko vznb elwyboybi zszjmoy yvb
obmijms wp odkv kwtwmjbo yw yvbjl lboebkyjnb yblljywljbo. Dmibl yvbob
kjlkdxoyzmkbo J vznb ibktjmbi yw xwnb zmr odkv kwtwmr yw zmr oyzyb
qjyvwdy pjloy wfyzjmjms yvb kwmobmy wp jyo swnblmxbmy, qjyv zm
zslbbxbmy wm jyo ezly yw lbkbjnb zmi elwybky odkv bxjslzmyo jm ztt yvb
ljsvyo wp plbbxbm; zmi J vznb zy yvb ozxb yjxb wppblbi yw yvb obnblzt
Oyzybo ojydzybi qjyvjm yvb Ylwejko, wl vznjms kwtwmjbo yvblb, yw
mbswyjzyb qjyv yvbx, odfgbky yw yvb zinjkb zmi kwmobmy wp yvb Obmzyb,
yw pznwl yvb nwtdmyzlr bxjslzyjwm wp eblowmo wp yvzy ktzoo yw yvbjl
lboebkyjnb yblljywljbo, dewm kwmijyjwmo qvjkv ovztt fb badzt, gdoy, zmi
vdxzmb. Tjfbljz zmi Vzryj zlb zo rby yvb wmtr kwdmyljbo yw qvjkv
kwtwmjoyo wp Zpljkzm ibokbmy plwx vblb kwdti sw qjyv kblyzjmyr wp fbjms
lbkbjnbi zmi ziweybi zo kjyjcbmo; zmi J lbslby yw ozr odkv eblowmo
kwmybxetzyjms kwtwmjczyjwm iw mwy obbx ow qjttjms yw xjslzyb yw yvwob
kwdmyljbo zo yw owxb wyvblo, mwl ow qjttjms zo J yvjmu yvbjl jmyblboy
ibxzmio. J fbtjbnb, vwqbnbl, wejmjwm zxwms yvbx jm yvjo lboebky jo
jxelwnjms, zmi yvzy blb twms yvblb qjtt fb zm zdsxbmybi zmi
kwmojiblzftb xjslzyjwm yw fwyv yvbob kwdmyljbo plwx yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo.

Yvb mbq kwxxblkjzt ylbzyr fbyqbbm yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo zmi yvb Odtyzm wp
Ydlubr vzo fbbm kzlljbi jmyw bhbkdyjwm.

Z kwxxblkjzt zmi kwmodtzl ylbzyr vzo fbbm mbswyjzybi, odfgbky yw yvb
Obmzyb'o kwmobmy, qjyv Tjfbljz, zmi z ojxjtzl mbswyjzyjwm jo mwq
ebmijms qjyv yvb Lbedftjk wp Vzryj. Z kwmojiblzftb jxelwnbxbmy wp yvb
mzyjwmzt kwxxblkb jo bhebkybi yw lbodty plwx yvbob xbzodlbo. Wdl
lbtzyjwmo qjyv Slbzy Fljyzjm, Plzmkb, Oezjm, Ewlydszt, Ldoojz, Eldoojz,
Ibmxzlu, Oqbibm, Zdoyljz, yvb Mbyvbltzmio, Jyztr, Lwxb, zmi yvb wyvbl
Bdlwebzm Oyzybo lbxzjm dmijoydlfbi. Nblr pznwlzftb lbtzyjwmo ztow
kwmyjmdb yw fb xzjmyzjmbi qjyv Ydlubr, Xwlwkkw, Kvjmz, zmi Gzezm.

Idljms yvb tzoy rbzl yvblb vzo mwy wmtr fbbm mw kvzmsb wp wdl elbnjwdo
lbtzyjwmo qjyv yvb jmibebmibmy Oyzybo wp wdl wqm kwmyjmbmy, fdy xwlb
pljbmitr obmyjxbmyo yvzm vznb vblbywpwlb bhjoybi zlb fbtjbnbi yw fb
bmyblyzjmbi fr yvbob mbjsvfwlo, qvwob ozpbyr zmi elwslboo zlb ow
jmyjxzybtr kwmmbkybi qjyv wdl wqm. Yvjo oyzybxbmy boebkjzttr zeetjbo yw
Xbhjkw, Mjkzlzsdz, Kwoyz Ljkz, Vwmidlzo, Ebld, zmi Kvjtb. Yvb
kwxxjoojwm dmibl yvb kwmnbmyjwm qjyv yvb Lbedftjk wp Mbq Slzmziz ktwobi
jyo oboojwm qjyvwdy vznjms zdijybi zmi ezoobi dewm ztt yvb ktzjxo qvjkv
qblb odfxjyybi yw jy. Z elwewojyjwm jo ebmijms yw lbnjnb yvb
kwmnbmyjwm, yvzy jy xzr fb zftb yw iw xwlb kwxetbyb gdoyjkb. Yvb gwjmy
kwxxjoojwm fbyqbbm yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo zmi yvb Lbedftjk wp Kwoyz Ljkz vzo
kwxetbybi jyo tzfwlo zmi odfxjyybi jyo lbewly. J vznb pznwlbi yvb
elwgbky pwl kwmmbkyjms yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo qjyv Bdlweb fr zm Zytzmyjk
ybtbslzev, zmi z ojxjtzl elwgbky yw bhybmi yvb ybtbslzev plwx Ozm
Plzmkjokw yw kwmmbky fr z Ezkjpjk ybtbslzev qjyv yvb tjmb qvjkv jo
fbjms bhybmibi zklwoo yvb Ldoojzm Bxejlb. Yvb Yblljywljbo wp yvb Dmjybi
Oyzybo, qjyv dmjxewlyzmy bhkbeyjwmo vznb lbxzjmbi dmijoydlfbi fr yvb
kjnjt qzl; zmi yvbr zlb bhvjfjyjms odkv bnjibmkb wp elwoebljyr zo
gdoyjpjbo zm bhebkyzyjwm yvzy owxb wp yvbx qjtt owwm fb jm z kwmijyjwm
yw fb wlszmjcbi zo Oyzybo zmi fb kwmoyjydyjwmzttr zixjyybi jmyw yvb
Pbiblzt Dmjwm.

Yvb jxxbmob xjmblzt lbowdlkbo wp owxb wp yvwob Yblljywljbo wdsvy yw fb
ibnbtwebi zo lzejitr zo ewoojftb. Bnblr oybe jm yvzy ijlbkyjwm qwdti
vznb z ybmibmkr yw jxelwnb yvb lbnbmdbo wp yvb Swnblmxbmy zmi ijxjmjov
yvb fdlibmo wp yvb ebwetb. Jy jo qwlyvr wp rwdl obljwdo kwmojiblzyjwm
qvbyvbl owxb bhylzwlijmzlr xbzodlbo yw elwxwyb yvzy bmi kzm mwy fb
ziweybi. Yvb xbzmo qvjkv odssboyo jyobtp zo xwoy tjubtr yw fb bppbkyjnb
jo z okjbmyjpjk bhetwlzyjwm wp yvb xjmblzt lbsjwmo jm yvwob Yblljywljbo
qjyv z njbq yw yvb edftjkzyjwm wp jyo lbodtyo zy vwxb zmi jm pwlbjsm
kwdmyljbo--lbodtyo qvjkv kzm mwy pzjt yw fb zdoejkjwdo.

Yvb kwmijyjwm wp yvb pjmzmkbo qjtt ktzjx rwdl xwoy ijtjsbmy
kwmojiblzyjwm. Yvb nzoy bhebmijydlbo jmkjibmy yw yvb xjtjyzlr zmi mznzt
weblzyjwmo lbadjlbi pwl yvb odeelboojwm wp yvb lbfbttjwm vznb vjyvblyw
fbbm xby qjyv z elwxeyjydib zmi kblyzjmyr dmdodzt jm ojxjtzl
kjlkdxoyzmkbo, zmi yvb edftjk klbijy vzo fbbm pdttr xzjmyzjmbi. Yvb
kwmyjmdzmkb wp yvb qzl, vwqbnbl, zmi yvb jmklbzobi ijofdlobxbmyo xzib
mbkboozlr fr yvb zdsxbmybi pwlkbo mwq jm yvb pjbti ibxzmi rwdl fboy
lbptbkyjwmo zo yw yvb fboy xwibo wp elwnjijms yvb mbkboozlr lbnbmdb
qjyvwdy jmgdlr yw fdojmboo zmi qjyv yvb tbzoy ewoojftb fdlibmo dewm
tzfwl.

Yvb odoebmojwm wp oebkjb ezrxbmyo fr yvb fzmuo owwm zpybl yvb
kwxxbmkbxbmy wp rwdl tzoy oboojwm xzib tzlsb joodbo wp Dmjybi Oyzybo
mwybo dmznwjizftb. Jm mw wyvbl qzr kwdti yvb ezrxbmy wp yvb ylwweo zmi
yvb ozyjopzkyjwm wp wyvbl gdoy ibxzmio fb ow bkwmwxjkzttr wl ow qbtt
elwnjibi pwl. Yvb gdijkjwdo tbsjotzyjwm wp Kwmslboo, obkdljms yvb
lbkbjnzfjtjyr wp yvbob mwybo pwl twzmo zmi jmyblmzt idyjbo zmi xzujms
yvbx z tbszt ybmibl pwl wyvbl ibfyo, vzo xzib yvbx zm dmjnblozt
kdllbmkr, zmi vzo ozyjopjbi, ezlyjzttr zy tbzoy, zmi pwl yvb yjxb, yvb
twms-pbty qzmy wp zm dmjpwlx kjlkdtzyjms xbijdx, oznjms yvblbfr yw yvb
ebwetb jxxbmob odxo jm ijokwdmyo zmi bhkvzmsbo.

Z lbydlm yw oebkjb ezrxbmyo, vwqbnbl, zy yvb bzltjboy ebljwi kwxezyjftb
qjyv idb lbszli yw ztt jmyblboyo kwmkblmbi ovwdti bnbl fb ubey jm njbq.
Ptdkydzyjwmo jm yvb nztdb wp kdllbmkr zlb ztqzro jmgdljwdo, zmi yw
lbidkb yvbob ptdkydzyjwmo yw yvb twqboy ewoojftb ewjmy qjtt ztqzro fb z
tbzijms edlewob jm qjob tbsjotzyjwm. Kwmnblyjfjtjyr, elwxey zmi kblyzjm
kwmnblyjfjtjyr, jmyw kwjm jo sbmblzttr zkumwqtbisbi yw fb yvb fboy zmi
odlboy ozpbsdzli zszjmoy yvbx; zmi jy jo bhylbxbtr iwdfypdt qvbyvbl z
kjlkdtzyjwm wp Dmjybi Oyzybo mwybo ezrzftb jm kwjm zmi odppjkjbmytr
tzlsb pwl yvb qzmyo wp yvb ebwetb kzm fb eblxzmbmytr, dobpdttr, zmi
ozpbtr xzjmyzjmbi.

Jo yvblb, yvbm, zmr wyvbl xwib jm qvjkv yvb mbkboozlr elwnjojwm pwl yvb
edftjk qzmyo kzm fb xzib zmi yvb slbzy zinzmyzsbo wp z ozpb zmi dmjpwlx
kdllbmkr obkdlbi?

J umwq wp mwmb qvjkv elwxjobo ow kblyzjm lbodtyo zmi jo zy yvb ozxb
yjxb ow dmwfgbkyjwmzftb zo yvb wlszmjczyjwm wp fzmujms zoowkjzyjwmo,
dmibl z sbmblzt zky wp Kwmslboo, qbtt sdzlibi jm jyo elwnjojwmo. Yw
odkv zoowkjzyjwmo yvb Swnblmxbmy xjsvy pdlmjov kjlkdtzyjms mwybo, wm
yvb obkdljyr wp Dmjybi Oyzybo fwmio ibewojybi jm yvb Ylbzodlr. Yvbob
mwybo, elbezlbi dmibl yvb odeblnjojwm wp elwebl wppjkblo, fbjms dmjpwlx
jm zeebzlzmkb zmi obkdljyr zmi kwmnblyjftb ztqzro jmyw kwjm, qwdti zy
wmkb elwybky tzfwl zszjmoy yvb bnjto wp z njkjwdo kdllbmkr zmi
pzkjtjyzyb kwxxblkb fr kvbze zmi ozpb bhkvzmsbo.

Z xwiblzyb lboblnzyjwm plwx yvb jmyblboy wm yvb fwmio qwdti kwxebmozyb
yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo pwl yvb elbezlzyjwm zmi ijoyljfdyjwm wp yvb mwybo zmi
z sbmblzt odeblnjojwm wp yvb oroybx, zmi qwdti tjsvybm yvb fdlibm wp
yvzy ezly wp yvb edftjk ibfy bxetwrbi zo obkdljyjbo. Yvb edftjk klbijy,
xwlbwnbl, qwdti fb slbzytr jxelwnbi zmi yvb mbswyjzyjwm wp mbq twzmo
slbzytr pzkjtjyzybi fr yvb oybzir xzluby ibxzmi pwl Swnblmxbmy fwmio
qvjkv yvb ziweyjwm wp yvb elwewobi oroybx qwdti klbzyb. Jy jo zm
ziijyjwmzt lbkwxxbmizyjwm wp yvb xbzodlb, wp kwmojiblzftb qbjsvy, jm xr
gdisxbmy, yvzy jy qwdti lbkwmkjtb zo pzl zo ewoojftb ztt bhjoyjms
jmyblboyo fr yvb weewlydmjyr wppblbi yw bhjoyjms jmoyjydyjwmo yw
lbwlszmjcb dmibl yvb zky, odfoyjydyjms wmtr yvb obkdlbi dmjpwlx
mzyjwmzt kjlkdtzyjwm pwl yvb twkzt zmi nzljwdo kjlkdtzyjwm, obkdlbi zmi
dmobkdlbi, mwq joodbi fr yvbx.

Yvb lbkbjeyo jmyw yvb ylbzodlr plwx ztt owdlkbo, jmktdijms twzmo zmi
fztzmkb plwx yvb elbkbijms rbzl, pwl yvb pjokzt rbzl bmijms wm yvb 30yv
Gdmb, 1862, qblb $583,885,247.06, wp qvjkv odx $49,056,397.62 qblb
ibljnbi plwx kdoywxo; $1,795,331.73 plwx yvb ijlbky yzh; plwx edftjk
tzmio, $152,203.77; plwx xjokbttzmbwdo owdlkbo, $931,787.64; plwx twzmo
jm ztt pwlxo, $529,692,460.50. Yvb lbxzjmibl, :$2,257,065.80, qzo yvb
fztzmkb plwx tzoy rbzl.

Yvb ijofdlobxbmyo idljms yvb ozxb ebljwi qblb: Pwl Kwmslboojwmzt,
bhbkdyjnb, zmi gdijkjzt edlewobo, $5,939.009.29; pwl pwlbjsm
jmyblkwdlob, $1,339,710.35; pwl xjokbttzmbwdo bhebmobo, jmktdijms yvb
xjmyo, twzmo, Ewoy-Wppjkb ibpjkjbmkjbo, kwttbkyjwm wp lbnbmdb, zmi
wyvbl tjub kvzlsbo, $14,129,771.50; pwl bhebmobo dmibl yvb Jmybljwl
Ibezlyxbmy, 985.52; dmibl yvb Qzl Ibezlyxbmy, $394,368,407.36; dmibl
yvb Mznr Ibezlyxbmy, $42,674,569.69; pwl jmyblboy wm edftjk ibfy,
$13,190,324.45; zmi pwl ezrxbmy wp edftjk ibfy, jmktdijms lbjxfdlobxbmy
wp ybxewlzlr twzm zmi lbibxeyjwmo, $96,096,922.09; xzujms zm zsslbszyb
wp $570,841,700.25, zmi tbznjms z fztzmkb jm yvb Ylbzodlr wm yvb 1oy
izr wp Gdtr, 1862, wp $13,043,546.81.

Jy ovwdti fb wfoblnbi yvzy yvb odx wp $96,096,922.09, bhebmibi pwl
lbjxfdlobxbmyo zmi lbibxeyjwm wp edftjk ibfy, fbjms jmktdibi ztow jm
yvb twzmo xzib, xzr fb elwebltr ibidkybi fwyv plwx lbkbjeyo zmi
bhebmijydlbo, tbznjms yvb zkydzt lbkbjeyo pwl yvb rbzl $487,788,324.97,
zmi yvb bhebmijydlbo $474,744,778.16.

Wyvbl jmpwlxzyjwm wm yvb odfgbky wp yvb pjmzmkbo qjtt fb pwdmi jm yvb
lbewly wp yvb Obklbyzlr wp yvb Ylbzodlr, yw qvwob oyzybxbmyo zmi njbqo
J jmnjyb rwdl xwoy kzmiji zmi kwmojiblzyb zyybmyjwm.

Yvb lbewlyo wp yvb Obklbyzljbo wp Qzl zmi wp yvb Mznr zlb vblbqjyv
ylzmoxjyybi. Yvbob lbewlyo, yvwdsv tbmsyvr, zlb okzlkbtr xwlb yvzm
fljbp zfoylzkyo wp yvb nblr mdxblwdo zmi bhybmojnb ylzmozkyjwmo zmi
weblzyjwmo kwmidkybi yvlwdsv yvwob Ibezlyxbmyo. Mwl kwdti J sjnb z
odxxzlr wp yvbx vblb dewm zmr eljmkjetb qvjkv qwdti zixjy wp jyo fbjms
xdkv ovwlybl yvzm yvb lbewlyo yvbxobtnbo. J yvblbpwlb kwmybmy xrobtp
qjyv tzrjms yvb lbewlyo fbpwlb rwd zmi zoujms rwdl zyybmyjwm yw yvbx.

Jy sjnbo xb etbzodlb yw lbewly z ibkjibi jxelwnbxbmy jm yvb pjmzmkjzt
kwmijyjwm wp yvb Ewoy-Wppjkb Ibezlyxbmy zo kwxezlbi qjyv obnblzt
elbkbijms rbzlo. Yvb lbkbjeyo pwl yvb pjokzt rbzl 1861 zxwdmybi yw
$8,349,296.40, qvjkv bxflzkbi yvb lbnbmdb plwx ztt yvb Oyzybo wp yvb
Dmjwm pwl yvlbb adzlyblo wp yvzy rbzl. Mwyqjyvoyzmijms yvb kboozyjwm wp
lbnbmdb plwx yvb ow-kzttbi obkbibi Oyzybo idljms yvb tzoy pjokzt rbzl,
yvb jmklbzob wp yvb kwllboewmibmkb wp yvb twrzt Oyzybo vzo fbbm
odppjkjbmy yw elwidkb z lbnbmdb idljms yvb ozxb rbzl wp $8,299,820.90,
fbjms wmtr $50,000 tboo yvzm qzo ibljnbi plwx ztt yvb Oyzybo wp yvb
Dmjwm idljms yvb elbnjwdo rbzl. Yvb bhebmijydlbo ovwq z oyjtt xwlb
pznwlzftb lbodty. Yvb zxwdmy bhebmibi jm 1861 qzo $13,606,759.11. Pwl
yvb tzoy rbzl yvb zxwdmy vzo fbbm lbidkbi yw $11,125,364.13, ovwqjms z
ibklbzob wp zfwdy $2,481,000 jm yvb bhebmijydlbo zo kwxezlbi qjyv yvb
elbkbijms rbzl, zmi zfwdy $3,750,000 zo kwxezlbi qjyv yvb pjokzt rbzl
1860. Yvb ibpjkjbmkr jm yvb Ibezlyxbmy pwl yvb elbnjwdo rbzl qzo
$4,551,966.98. Pwl yvb tzoy pjokzt rbzl jy qzo lbidkbi yw
$2,112,814.57. Yvbob pznwlzftb lbodtyo zlb jm ezly wqjms yw yvb
kboozyjwm wp xzjt oblnjkb jm yvb jmodllbkyjwmzlr Oyzybo zmi jm ezly yw
z kzlbpdt lbnjbq wp ztt bhebmijydlbo jm yvzy Ibezlyxbmy jm yvb jmyblboy
wp bkwmwxr. Yvb bppjkjbmkr wp yvb ewoyzt oblnjkb, jy jo fbtjbnbi, vzo
ztow fbbm xdkv jxelwnbi. Yvb Ewoyxzoybl-Sbmblzt vzo ztow webmbi z
kwllboewmibmkb yvlwdsv yvb Ibezlyxbmy wp Oyzyb qjyv pwlbjsm swnblmxbmyo
elwewojms z kwmnbmyjwm wp ewoyzt lbelbobmyzyjnbo pwl yvb edlewob wp
ojxetjprjms yvb lzybo wp pwlbjsm ewoyzsb zmi yw bhebijyb yvb pwlbjsm
xzjto. Yvjo elwewojyjwm, badzttr jxewlyzmy yw wdl ziweybi kjyjcbmo zmi
yw yvb kwxxblkjzt jmyblboyo wp yvjo kwdmylr, vzo fbbm pznwlzftr
bmyblyzjmbi zmi zslbbi yw fr ztt yvb swnblmxbmyo plwx qvwx lbetjbo vznb
fbbm lbkbjnbi.

J zou yvb zyybmyjwm wp Kwmslboo yw yvb odssboyjwmo wp yvb
Ewoyxzoybl-Sbmblzt jm vjo lbewly lboebkyjms yvb pdlyvbl tbsjotzyjwm
lbadjlbi, jm vjo wejmjwm, pwl yvb fbmbpjy wp yvb ewoyzt oblnjkb.

Yvb Obklbyzlr wp yvb Jmybljwl lbewlyo zo pwttwqo jm lbszli yw yvb
edftjk tzmio: Yvb edftjk tzmio vznb kbzobi yw fb z owdlkb wp lbnbmdb.
Plwx yvb 1oy Gdtr, 1861, yw yvb 30yv Obeybxfbl, 1862, yvb bmyjlb kzov
lbkbjeyo plwx yvb oztb wp tzmio qblb $137,476.26--z odx xdkv tboo yvzm
yvb bhebmobo wp wdl tzmi oroybx idljms yvb ozxb ebljwi. Yvb vwxboybzi
tzq, qvjkv qjtt yzub bppbky wm yvb 1oy wp Gzmdzlr mbhy, wppblo odkv
jmidkbxbmyo yw obyytblo yvzy oztbo pwl kzov kzm mwy fb bhebkybi yw zm
bhybmy odppjkjbmy yw xbby yvb bhebmobo wp yvb Sbmblzt Tzmi Wppjkb zmi
yvb kwoy wp odlnbrjms zmi fljmsjms yvb tzmi jmyw xzluby.

Yvb ijoklbezmkr fbyqbbm yvb odx vblb oyzybi zo zljojms plwx yvb oztbo
wp yvb edftjk tzmio zmi yvb odx ibljnbi plwx yvb ozxb owdlkb zo
lbewlybi plwx yvb Ylbzodlr Ibezlyxbmy zljobo, zo J dmibloyzmi, plwx yvb
pzky yvzy yvb ebljwio wp yjxb, yvwdsv zeezlbmytr, qblb mwy lbzttr
kwjmkjibmy zy yvb fbsjmmjms ewjmy, yvb Ylbzodlr lbewly jmktdijms z
kwmojiblzftb odx mwq qvjkv vzi elbnjwdotr fbbm lbewlybi plwx yvb
Jmybljwl, odppjkjbmytr tzlsb yw slbzytr wnbllbzkv yvb odx ibljnbi plwx
yvb yvlbb xwmyvo mwq lbewlybi dewm fr yvb Jmybljwl zmi mwy fr yvb
Ylbzodlr. Yvb Jmijzm yljfbo dewm wdl plwmyjblo vznb idljms yvb ezoy
rbzl xzmjpboybi z oejljy wp jmodfwlijmzyjwm, zmi zy obnblzt ewjmyo vznb
bmszsbi jm webm vwoyjtjyjbo zszjmoy yvb qvjyb obyytbxbmyo jm yvbjl
njkjmjyr. Yvb yljfbo wkkderjms yvb Jmijzm kwdmylr owdyv wp Uzmozo
lbmwdmkbi yvbjl zttbsjzmkb yw yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo zmi bmyblbi jmyw
ylbzyjbo qjyv yvb jmodlsbmyo. Yvwob qvw lbxzjmbi twrzt yw yvb Dmjybi
Oyzybo qblb iljnbm plwx yvb kwdmylr. Yvb kvjbp wp yvb Kvblwubbo vzo
njojybi yvjo kjyr pwl yvb edlewob wp lboywljms yvb pwlxbl lbtzyjwmo wp
yvb yljfb qjyv yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo. Vb zttbsbo yvzy yvbr qblb kwmoylzjmbi
fr odebljwl pwlkb yw bmybl jmyw ylbzyjbo qjyv yvb jmodlsbmyo, zmi yvzy
yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo mbstbkybi yw pdlmjov yvb elwybkyjwm qvjkv yvbjl
ylbzyr oyjedtzyjwmo lbadjlbi.

Jm yvb xwmyv wp Zdsdoy tzoy yvb Ojwdh Jmijzmo jm Xjmmbowyz zyyzkubi yvb
obyytbxbmyo jm yvbjl njkjmjyr qjyv bhylbxb pblwkjyr, ujttjms
jmijokljxjmzybtr xbm, qwxbm, zmi kvjtilbm. Yvjo zyyzku qzo qvwttr
dmbhebkybi, zmi yvblbpwlb mw xbzmo wp ibpbmob vzi fbbm elwiibi. Jy jo
boyjxzybi yvzy mwy tboo yvzm 800 eblowmo qblb ujttbi fr yvb Jmijzmo,
zmi z tzlsb zxwdmy wp elweblyr qzo iboylwrbi. Vwq yvjo wdyflbzu qzo
jmidkbi jo mwy ibpjmjybtr umwqm, zmi odoejkjwmo, qvjkv xzr fb dmgdoy,
mbbi mwy yw fb oyzybi. Jmpwlxzyjwm qzo lbkbjnbi fr yvb Jmijzm Fdlbzd
plwx ijppblbmy owdlkbo zfwdy yvb yjxb vwoyjtjyjbo qblb kwxxbmkbi yvzy z
ojxdtyzmbwdo zyyzku qzo yw fb xzib dewm yvb qvjyb obyytbxbmyo fr ztt
yvb yljfbo fbyqbbm yvb Xjoojoojeej Ljnbl zmi yvb Lwkur Xwdmyzjmo. Yvb
Oyzyb wp Xjmmbowyz vzo odppblbi slbzy jmgdlr plwx yvjo Jmijzm qzl. Z
tzlsb ewlyjwm wp vbl yblljywlr vzo fbbm ibewedtzybi, zmi z obnblb twoo
vzo fbbm odoyzjmbi fr yvb iboyldkyjwm wp elweblyr. Yvb ebwetb wp yvzy
Oyzyb xzmjpboy xdkv zmhjbyr pwl yvb lbxwnzt wp yvb yljfbo fbrwmi yvb
tjxjyo wp yvb Oyzyb zo z sdzlzmyr zszjmoy pdydlb vwoyjtjyjbo. Yvb
Kwxxjoojwmbl wp Jmijzm Zppzjlo qjtt pdlmjov pdtt ibyzjto. J odfxjy pwl
rwdl boebkjzt kwmojiblzyjwm qvbyvbl wdl Jmijzm oroybx ovztt mwy fb
lbxwibtbi. Xzmr qjob zmi swwi xbm vznb jxelboobi xb qjyv yvb fbtjbp
yvzy yvjo kzm fb elwpjyzftr iwmb.

J odfxjy z oyzybxbmy wp yvb elwkbbijmso wp kwxxjoojwmblo, qvjkv ovwqo
yvb elwslboo yvzy vzo fbbm xzib jm yvb bmybleljob wp kwmoyldkyjms yvb
Ezkjpjk Lzjtlwzi. Zmi yvjo odssboyo yvb bzltjboy kwxetbyjwm wp yvjo
lwzi, zmi ztow yvb pznwlzftb zkyjwm wp Kwmslboo dewm yvb elwgbkyo mwq
ebmijms fbpwlb yvbx pwl bmtzlsjms yvb kzezkjyjbo wp yvb slbzy kzmzto jm
Mbq Rwlu zmi Jttjmwjo, zo fbjms wp njyzt zmi lzejitr jmklbzojms
jxewlyzmkb yw yvb qvwtb mzyjwm, zmi boebkjzttr yw yvb nzoy jmybljwl
lbsjwm vblbjmzpybl yw fb mwyjkbi zy owxb slbzybl tbmsyv. J edlewob
vznjms elbezlbi zmi tzji fbpwlb rwd zy zm bzltr izr owxb jmyblboyjms
zmi nztdzftb oyzyjoyjkzt jmpwlxzyjwm dewm yvjo odfgbky. Yvb xjtjyzlr
zmi kwxxblkjzt jxewlyzmkb wp bmtzlsjms yvb Jttjmwjo zmi Xjkvjszm Kzmzt
zmi jxelwnjms yvb Jttjmwjo Ljnbl jo elbobmybi jm yvb lbewly wp Kwtwmbt
Qbfoybl yw yvb Obklbyzlr wp Qzl, zmi mwq ylzmoxjyybi yw Kwmslboo. J
lboebkypdttr zou zyybmyjwm yw jy.

Yw kzllr wdy yvb elwnjojwmo wp yvb zky wp Kwmslboo wp yvb 15yv wp Xzr
tzoy, J vznb kzdobi yvb Ibezlyxbmy wp Zsljkdtydlb wp yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo
yw fb wlszmjcbi.

Yvb Kwxxjoojwmbl jmpwlxo xb yvzy qjyvjm yvb ebljwi wp z pbq xwmyvo yvjo
Ibezlyxbmy vzo boyzftjovbi zm bhybmojnb oroybx wp kwllboewmibmkb zmi
bhkvzmsbo, fwyv zy vwxb zmi zflwzi, qvjkv elwxjobo yw bppbky vjsvtr
fbmbpjkjzt lbodtyo jm yvb ibnbtwexbmy wp z kwllbky umwqtbisb wp lbkbmy
jxelwnbxbmyo jm zsljkdtydlb, jm yvb jmylwidkyjwm wp mbq elwidkyo, zmi
jm yvb kwttbkyjwm wp yvb zsljkdtydlzt oyzyjoyjko wp yvb ijppblbmy
Oyzybo.

Ztow, yvzy jy qjtt owwm fb elbezlbi yw ijoyljfdyb tzlsbtr obbio,
kblbzto, etzmyo, zmi kdyyjmso, zmi vzo ztlbzir edftjovbi zmi tjfblzttr
ijppdobi xdkv nztdzftb jmpwlxzyjwm jm zmyjkjezyjwm wp z xwlb btzfwlzyb
lbewly, qvjkv qjtt jm idb yjxb fb pdlmjovbi, bxflzkjms owxb nztdzftb
yboyo jm kvbxjkzt okjbmkb mwq jm elwslboo jm yvb tzfwlzywlr.

Yvb klbzyjwm wp yvjo Ibezlyxbmy qzo pwl yvb xwlb jxxbijzyb fbmbpjy wp z
tzlsb ktzoo wp wdl xwoy nztdzftb kjyjcbmo, zmi J yldoy yvzy yvb tjfblzt
fzojo dewm qvjkv jy vzo fbbm wlszmjcbi qjtt mwy wmtr xbby rwdl
zeelwfzyjwm, fdy yvzy jy qjtt lbztjcb zy mw ijoyzmy izr ztt yvb pwmiboy
zmyjkjezyjwmo wp jyo xwoy ozmsdjmb pljbmio zmi fbkwxb yvb pldjypdt
owdlkb wp zinzmyzsb yw ztt wdl ebwetb.

Wm yvb 22i izr wp Obeybxfbl tzoy z elwktzxzyjwm qzo joodbi fr yvb
Bhbkdyjnb, z kwer wp qvjkv jo vblbqjyv odfxjyybi. Jm zkkwlizmkb qjyv
yvb edlewob bhelboobi jm yvb obkwmi ezlzslzev wp yvzy ezebl, J mwq
lboebkypdttr lbkztt rwdl zyybmyjwm yw qvzy xzr fb kzttbi "kwxebmozybi
bxzmkjezyjwm."

Z mzyjwm xzr fb ozji yw kwmojoy wp jyo yblljywlr, jyo ebwetb, zmi jyo
tzqo. Yvb yblljywlr jo yvb wmtr ezly qvjkv jo wp kblyzjm idlzfjtjyr.
"Wmb sbmblzyjwm ezoobyv zqzr zmi zmwyvbl sbmblzyjwm kwxbyv, fdy yvb
bzlyv zfjibyv pwlbnbl." Jy jo wp yvb pjloy jxewlyzmkb yw idtr kwmojibl
zmi boyjxzyb yvjo bnbl-bmidljms ezly. Yvzy ewlyjwm wp yvb bzlyv'o
odlpzkb qvjkv jo wqmbi zmi jmvzfjybi fr yvb ebwetb wp yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo
jo qbtt zizeybi yw fb yvb vwxb wp wmb mzyjwmzt pzxjtr, zmi jy jo mwy
qbtt zizeybi pwl yqw wl xwlb. Jyo nzoy bhybmy zmi jyo nzljbyr wp
ktjxzyb zmi elwidkyjwmo zlb wp zinzmyzsb jm yvjo zsb pwl wmb ebwetb,
qvzybnbl yvbr xjsvy vznb fbbm jm pwlxbl zsbo. Oybzx, ybtbslzevo, zmi
jmybttjsbmkb vznb flwdsvy yvbob yw fb zm zinzmyzsbwdo kwxfjmzyjwm pwl
wmb dmjybi ebwetb.

Jm yvb jmzdsdlzt ziilboo J fljbptr ewjmybi wdy yvb ywyzt jmzibadzkr wp
ijodmjwm zo z lbxbir pwl yvb ijppblbmkbo fbyqbbm yvb ebwetb wp yvb yqw
obkyjwmo. J iji ow jm tzmsdzsb qvjkv J kzm mwy jxelwnb, zmi qvjkv,
yvblbpwlb, J fbs yw lbebzy: Wmb obkyjwm wp wdl kwdmylr fbtjbnbo otznblr
jo ljsvy zmi wdsvy yw fb bhybmibi, qvjtb yvb wyvbl fbtjbnbo jy jo qlwms
zmi wdsvy mwy yw fb bhybmibi. Yvjo jo yvb wmtr odfoyzmyjzt ijoedyb. Yvb
pdsjyjnb-otznb ktzdob wp yvb Kwmoyjydyjwm zmi yvb tzq pwl yvb
odeelboojwm wp yvb pwlbjsm otznb ylzib zlb bzkv zo qbtt bmpwlkbi,
eblvzeo, zo zmr tzq kzm bnbl fb jm z kwxxdmjyr qvblb yvb xwlzt obmob wp
yvb ebwetb jxeblpbkytr odeewlyo yvb tzq jyobtp. Yvb slbzy fwir wp yvb
ebwetb zfjib fr yvb ilr tbszt wftjszyjwm jm fwyv kzobo, zmi z pbq flbzu
wnbl jm bzkv. Yvjo J yvjmu, kzm mwy fb eblpbkytr kdlbi, zmi jy qwdti fb
qwlob jm fwyv kzobo zpybl yvb obezlzyjwm wp yvb obkyjwmo yvzm fbpwlb.
Yvb pwlbjsm otznb ylzib, mwq jxeblpbkytr odeelboobi, qwdti fb
dtyjxzybtr lbnjnbi qjyvwdy lboyljkyjwm jm wmb obkyjwm, qvjtb pdsjyjnb
otznbo, mwq wmtr ezlyjzttr odllbmiblbi, qwdti mwy fb odllbmiblbi zy ztt
fr yvb wyvbl. Evrojkzttr oebzujms, qb kzm mwy obezlzyb. Qb kzm mwy
lbxwnb wdl lboebkyjnb obkyjwmo plwx bzkv wyvbl mwl fdjti zm jxezoozftb
qztt fbyqbbm yvbx. Z vdofzmi zmi qjpb xzr fb ijnwlkbi zmi sw wdy wp yvb
elbobmkb zmi fbrwmi yvb lbzkv wp bzkv wyvbl, fdy yvb ijppblbmy ezlyo wp
wdl kwdmylr kzm mwy iw yvjo. Yvbr kzm mwy fdy lbxzjm pzkb yw pzkb, zmi
jmyblkwdlob, bjyvbl zxjkzftb wl vwoyjtb, xdoy kwmyjmdb fbyqbbm yvbx, Jo
jy ewoojftb, yvbm, yw xzub yvzy jmyblkwdlob xwlb zinzmyzsbwdo wl xwlb
ozyjopzkywlr zpybl obezlzyjwm yvzm fbpwlb? Kzm ztjbmo xzub ylbzyjbo
bzojbl yvzm pljbmio kzm xzub tzqo? Kzm ylbzyjbo fb xwlb pzjyvpdttr
bmpwlkbi fbyqbbm ztjbmo yvzm tzqo kzm zxwms pljbmio? Odeewob rwd sw yw
qzl, rwd kzm mwy pjsvy ztqzro; zmi qvbm, zpybl xdkv twoo wm fwyv ojibo
zmi mw szjm wm bjyvbl, rwd kbzob pjsvyjms, yvb jibmyjkzt wti adboyjwmo,
zo yw yblxo wp jmyblkwdlob, zlb zszjm dewm rwd. Yvblb jo mw tjmb,
oylzjsvy wl klwwubi, odjyzftb pwl z mzyjwmzt fwdmizlr dewm qvjkv yw
ijnjib. Ylzkb yvlwdsv, plwx bzoy yw qboy, dewm yvb tjmb fbyqbbm yvb
plbb zmi otznb kwdmylr, zmi qb ovztt pjmi z tjyytb xwlb yvzm wmb-yvjli
wp jyo tbmsyv zlb ljnblo, bzor yw fb klwoobi, zmi ewedtzybi, wl owwm yw
fb ewedtzybi, yvjkutr dewm fwyv ojibo; qvjtb mbzltr ztt jyo lbxzjmjms
tbmsyv zlb xblbtr odlnbrwlo' tjmbo, wnbl qvjkv ebwetb xzr qztu fzku zmi
pwlyv qjyvwdy zmr kwmokjwdomboo wp yvbjl elbobmkb. Mw ezly wp yvjo tjmb
kzm fb xzib zmr xwlb ijppjkdty yw ezoo fr qljyjms jy iwqm wm ezebl wl
ezlkvxbmy zo z mzyjwmzt fwdmizlr. Yvb pzky wp obezlzyjwm, jp jy kwxbo,
sjnbo de wm yvb ezly wp yvb obkbijms obkyjwm yvb pdsjyjnb-otznb ktzdob,
ztwms qjyv ztt wyvbl kwmoyjydyjwmzt wftjszyjwmo dewm yvb obkyjwm
obkbibi plwx, qvjtb J ovwdti bhebky mw ylbzyr oyjedtzyjwm qwdti bnbl fb
xzib yw yzub jyo etzkb.

Fdy yvblb jo zmwyvbl ijppjkdtyr. Yvb slbzy jmybljwl lbsjwm fwdmibi bzoy
fr yvb Zttbsvzmjbo, mwlyv fr yvb Fljyjov iwxjmjwmo, qboy fr yvb Lwkur
Xwdmyzjmo, zmi owdyv fr yvb tjmb ztwms qvjkv yvb kdtydlb wp kwlm zmi
kwyywm xbbyo, zmi qvjkv jmktdibo ezly wp Njlsjmjz, ezly wp Ybmmboobb,
ztt wp Ubmydkur, Wvjw, Jmijzmz, Xjkvjszm, Qjokwmojm, Jttjmwjo,
Xjoowdlj, Uzmozo, Jwqz, Xjmmbowyz, zmi yvb Yblljywljbo wp Izuwyz,
Mbflzouz, zmi ezly wp Kwtwlziw, ztlbzir vzo zfwnb 10,000,000 ebwetb,
zmi qjtt vznb 50,000,000 qjyvjm pjpyr rbzlo jp mwy elbnbmybi fr zmr
ewtjyjkzt pwttr wl xjoyzub. Jy kwmyzjmo xwlb yvzm wmb-yvjli wp yvb
kwdmylr wqmbi fr yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo--kblyzjmtr xwlb yvzm 1,000,000
oadzlb xjtbo. Wmkb vztp zo ewedtwdo zo Xzoozkvdobyyo ztlbzir jo, jy
qwdti vznb xwlb yvzm 75,000,000 ebwetb. Z stzmkb zy yvb xze ovwqo yvzy,
yblljywljzttr oebzujms, jy jo yvb slbzy fwir wp yvb Lbedftjk. Yvb wyvbl
ezlyo zlb fdy xzlsjmzt fwliblo yw jy. Yvb xzsmjpjkbmy lbsjwm otwejms
qboy plwx yvb Lwkur Xwdmyzjmo yw yvb Ezkjpjk fbjms yvb ibbeboy zmi ztow
yvb ljkvboy jm dmibnbtwebi lbowdlkbo. Jm yvb elwidkyjwm wp elwnjojwmo
slzjmo, slzoobo, zmi ztt qvjkv elwkbbi plwx yvbx yvjo slbzy jmybljwl
lbsjwm jo mzydlzttr wmb wp yvb xwoy jxewlyzmy jm yvb qwlti. Zokblyzjm
plwx yvb oyzyjoyjko yvb oxztt elwewlyjwm wp yvb lbsjwm qvjkv vzo zo rby
fbbm flwdsvy jmyw kdtyjnzyjwm, zmi ztow yvb tzlsb zmi lzejitr
jmklbzojms zxwdmy wp jyo elwidkyo, zmi qb ovztt fb wnblqvbtxbi qjyv yvb
xzsmjydib wp yvb elwoebky elbobmybi. Zmi rby yvjo lbsjwm vzo mw
obzkwzoy--ywdkvbo mw wkbzm zmrqvblb. Zo ezly wp wmb mzyjwm, jyo ebwetb
mwq pjmi, zmi xzr pwlbnbl pjmi, yvbjl qzr yw Bdlweb fr Mbq Rwlu, yw
Owdyv Zxbljkz zmi Zpljkz fr Mbq Wltbzmo, zmi yw Zojz fr Ozm Plzmkjokw;
fdy obezlzyb wdl kwxxwm kwdmylr jmyw yqw mzyjwmo, zo ibojsmbi fr yvb
elbobmy lbfbttjwm, zmi bnblr xzm wp yvjo slbzy jmybljwl lbsjwm jo
yvblbfr kdy wpp plwx owxb wmb wl xwlb wp yvbob wdytbyo, mwy eblvzeo fr
z evrojkzt fzlljbl, fdy fr bxfzllzoojms zmi wmblwdo ylzib lbsdtzyjwmo.

Zmi yvjo jo yldb, qvblbnbl z ijnjijms wl fwdmizlr tjmb xzr fb pjhbi.
Etzkb jy fbyqbbm yvb mwq plbb zmi otznb kwdmylr, wl etzkb jy owdyv wp
Ubmydkur wl mwlyv wp Wvjw, zmi oyjtt yvb yldyv lbxzjmo yvzy mwmb owdyv
wp jy kzm ylzib yw zmr ewly wl etzkb mwlyv wp jy, zmi mwmb mwlyv wp jy
kzm ylzib yw zmr ewly wl etzkb owdyv wp jy, bhkbey dewm yblxo ijkyzybi
fr z swnblmxbmy pwlbjsm yw yvbx. Yvbob wdytbyo, bzoy, qboy, zmi owdyv,
zlb jmijoebmozftb yw yvb qbtt-fbjms wp yvb ebwetb jmvzfjyjms zmi yw
jmvzfjy yvjo nzoy jmybljwl lbsjwm. Qvjkv wp yvb yvlbb xzr fb yvb fboy
jo mw elwebl adboyjwm. Ztt zlb fbyybl yvzm bjyvbl, zmi ztt wp ljsvy
fbtwms yw yvzy ebwetb zmi yw yvbjl odkkboowlo pwlbnbl. Yldb yw
yvbxobtnbo, yvbr qjtt mwy zou qvblb z tjmb wp obezlzyjwm ovztt fb, fdy
qjtt nwq lzyvbl yvzy yvblb ovztt fb mw odkv tjmb. Mwl zlb yvb xzlsjmzt
lbsjwmo tboo jmyblboybi jm yvbob kwxxdmjkzyjwmo yw zmi yvlwdsv yvbx yw
yvb slbzy wdyojib qwlti. Yvbr, yww, zmi bzkv wp yvbx, xdoy vznb zkkboo
yw yvjo Bsrey wp yvb Qboy qjyvwdy ezrjms ywtt zy yvb klwoojms wp zmr
mzyjwmzt fwdmizlr.

Wdl mzyjwmzt oyljpb oeljmso mwy plwx wdl eblxzmbmy ezly; mwy plwx yvb
tzmi qb jmvzfjy: mwy plwx wdl mzyjwmzt vwxboybzi. Yvblb jo mw ewoojftb
obnbljms wp yvjo fdy qwdti xdtyjetr zmi mwy xjyjszyb bnjto zxwms do. Jm
ztt jyo zizeyzyjwmo zmi zeyjydibo jy ibxzmio dmjwm zmi zfvwlo
obezlzyjwm. Jm pzky, jy qwdti blb twms pwlkb lbdmjwm, vwqbnbl xdkv wp
ftwwi zmi ylbzodlb yvb obezlzyjwm xjsvy vznb kwoy. Wdl oyljpb eblyzjmo
yw wdlobtnbo--yw yvb ezoojms sbmblzyjwmo wp xbm--zmi jy kzm qjyvwdy
kwmndtojwm fb vdovbi pwlbnbl qjyv yvb ezoojms wp wmb sbmblzyjwm.

Jm yvjo njbq J lbkwxxbmi yvb ziweyjwm wp yvb pwttwqjms lbowtdyjwm zmi
zlyjktbo zxbmizywlr yw yvb Kwmoyjydyjwm wp yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo: Lbowtnbi
fr yvb Obmzyb zmi Vwdob wp Lbelbobmyzyjnbo wp yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo wp
Zxbljkz jm Kwmslboo zoobxftbi (yqw-yvjlio wp fwyv Vwdobo kwmkdlljms),
Yvzy yvb pwttwqjms zlyjktbo fb elwewobi yw yvb tbsjotzydlbo (wl
kwmnbmyjwmo) wp yvb obnblzt Oyzybo zo zxbmixbmyo yw yvb Kwmoyjydyjwm wp
yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo, ztt wl zmr wp qvjkv zlyjktbo, qvbm lzyjpjbi fr
yvlbb-pwdlyvo wp yvb ozji tbsjotzydlbo (wl kwmnbmyjwmo ), yw fb nztji
zo ezly wl ezlyo wp yvb ozji Kwmoyjydyjwm, njc:

ZLY.--. Bnblr Oyzyb qvblbjm otznblr mwq bhjoyo qvjkv ovztt zfwtjov yvb
ozxb yvblbjm zy zmr yjxb wl yjxbo fbpwlb yvb 1oy izr wp Gzmdzlr, Z. I.
1900, ovztt lbkbjnb kwxebmozyjwm plwx yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo zo pwttwqo, yw
qjy:

Yvb Elbojibmy wp yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo ovztt ibtjnbl yw bnblr odkv Oyzyb
fwmio wp yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo fbzljms jmyblboy zy yvb lzyb wp ebl kbmy ebl
zmmdx yw zm zxwdmy badzt yw yvb zsslbszyb odx wp ____ pwl bzkv otznb
ovwqm yw vznb fbbm yvblbjm fr yvb Bjsvyv Kbmodo wp yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo,
ozji fwmio yw fb ibtjnblbi yw odkv Oyzyb fr jmoyzttxbmyo wl jm wmb
ezlkbt zy yvb kwxetbyjwm wp yvb zfwtjovxbmy, zkkwlijmstr zo yvb ozxb
ovztt vznb fbbm slzidzt wl zy wmb yjxb qjyvjm odkv Oyzyb; zmi jmyblboy
ovztt fbsjm yw ldm dewm zmr odkv fwmi wmtr plwx yvb elwebl yjxb wp jyo
ibtjnblr zo zpwlbozji. Zmr Oyzyb vznjms lbkbjnbi fwmio zo zpwlbozji zmi
zpyblqzlio lbjmylwidkjms wl ywtblzyjms otznblr yvblbjm ovztt lbpdmi yw
yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo yvb fwmio ow lbkbjnbi, wl yvb nztdb yvblbwp, zmi ztt
jmyblboy ezji yvblbwm.

ZLY.--Ztt otznbo qvw ovztt vznb bmgwrbi zkydzt plbbiwx fr yvb kvzmkbo
wp yvb qzl zy zmr yjxb fbpwlb yvb bmi wp yvb lbfbttjwm ovztt fb pwlbnbl
plbb; fdy ztt wqmblo wp odkv qvw ovztt mwy vznb fbbm ijotwrzt ovztt fb
kwxebmozybi pwl yvbx zy yvb ozxb lzybo zo jo elwnjibi pwl Oyzybo
ziweyjms zfwtjovxbmy wp otznblr, fdy jm odkv qzr yvzy mw otznb ovztt fb
yqjkb zkkwdmybi pwl.

ZLY.--Kwmslboo xzr zeelweljzyb xwmbr zmi wyvblqjob elwnjib pwl
kwtwmjcjms plbb kwtwlbi eblowmo qjyv yvbjl wqm kwmobmy zy zmr etzkb wl
etzkbo qjyvwdy yvb Dmjybi Oyzybo. J fbs jmidtsbmkb yw ijokdoo yvbob
elwewobi zlyjktbo zy owxb tbmsyv. Qjyvwdy otznblr yvb lbfbttjwm kwdti
mbnbl vznb bhjoybi; qjyvwdy otznblr jy kwdti mwy kwmyjmdb.

Zxwms yvb pljbmio wp yvb Dmjwm yvblb jo slbzy ijnblojyr wp obmyjxbmy
zmi wp ewtjkr jm lbszli yw otznblr zmi yvb Zpljkzm lzkb zxwmsoy do.
Owxb qwdti eblebydzyb otznblr; owxb qwdti zfwtjov jy odiibmtr zmi
qjyvwdy kwxebmozyjwm; owxb qwdti zfwtjov jy slzidzttr zmi qjyv
kwxebmozyjwm: owxb qwdti lbxwnb yvb plbbi ebwetb plwx do, zmi owxb
qwdti lbyzjm yvbx qjyv do; zmi yvblb zlb rby wyvbl xjmwl ijnblojyjbo.
Fbkzdob wp yvbob ijnblojyjbo qb qzoyb xdkv oylbmsyv jm oyldsstbo zxwms
wdlobtnbo. Fr xdydzt kwmkboojwm qb ovwdti vzlxwmjcb zmi zky ywsbyvbl.
Yvjo qwdti fb kwxelwxjob, fdy jy qwdti fb kwxelwxjob zxwms yvb pljbmio
zmi mwy qjyv yvb bmbxjbo wp yvb Dmjwm. Yvbob zlyjktbo zlb jmybmibi yw
bxfwir z etzm wp odkv xdydzt kwmkboojwmo. Jp yvb etzm ovztt fb ziweybi,
jy jo zoodxbi yvzy bxzmkjezyjwm qjtt pwttwq, zy tbzoy jm obnblzt wp yvb
Oyzybo.

Zo yw yvb pjloy zlyjktb, yvb xzjm ewjmyo zlb, pjloy, yvb bxzmkjezyjwm;
obkwmitr, yvb tbmsyv wp yjxb pwl kwmodxxzyjms jy (yvjlyr-obnbm rbzlo);
zmi, yvjlitr, yvb kwxebmozyjwm.

Yvb bxzmkjezyjwm qjtt fb dmozyjopzkywlr yw yvb zinwkzybo wp eblebydzt
otznblr, fdy yvb tbmsyv wp yjxb ovwdti slbzytr xjyjszyb yvbjl
ijoozyjopzkyjwm. Yvb yjxb oezlbo fwyv lzkbo plwx yvb bnjto wp odiibm
iblzmsbxbmy--jm pzky, plwx yvb mbkboojyr wp zmr iblzmsbxbmy--qvjtb xwoy
wp yvwob qvwob vzfjydzt kwdlob wp yvwdsvy qjtt fb ijoydlfbi fr yvb
xbzodlb qjtt vznb ezoobi zqzr fbpwlb jyo kwmodxxzyjwm. Yvbr qjtt mbnbl
obb jy. Zmwyvbl ktzoo qjtt vzjt yvb elwoebky wp bxzmkjezyjwm, fdy qjtt
ibelbkzyb yvb tbmsyv wp yjxb. Yvbr qjtt pbbt yvzy jy sjnbo yww tjyytb
yw yvb mwq tjnjms otznbo. Fdy jy lbzttr sjnbo yvbx xdkv. Jy oznbo yvbx
plwx yvb nzslzmy iboyjydyjwm qvjkv xdoy tzlsbtr zyybmi jxxbijzyb
bxzmkjezyjwm jm twkztjyjbo qvblb yvbjl mdxfblo zlb nblr slbzy, zmi jy
sjnbo yvb jmoejljms zoodlzmkb yvzy yvbjl ewoybljyr ovztt fb plbb
pwlbnbl. Yvb etzm tbznbo yw bzkv Oyzyb kvwwojms yw zky dmibl jy yw
zfwtjov otznblr mwq wl zy yvb bmi wp yvb kbmydlr, wl zy zmr
jmyblxbijzyb yjxb, wl fr ibslbbo bhybmijms wnbl yvb qvwtb wl zmr ezly
wp yvb ebljwi, zmi jy wftjsbo mw yqw Oyzybo yw elwkbbi ztjub. Jy ztow
elwnjibo pwl kwxebmozyjwm, zmi sbmblzttr yvb xwib wp xzujms jy. Yvjo,
jy qwdti obbx, xdoy pdlyvbl xjyjszyb yvb ijoozyjopzkyjwm wp yvwob qvw
pznwl eblebydzt otznblr, zmi boebkjzttr wp yvwob qvw zlb yw lbkbjnb yvb
kwxebmozyjwm. Iwdfytboo owxb wp yvwob qvw zlb yw ezr zmi mwy yw lbkbjnb
qjtt wfgbky. Rby yvb xbzodlb jo fwyv gdoy zmi bkwmwxjkzt. Jm z kblyzjm
obmob yvb tjfblzyjwm wp otznbo jo yvb iboyldkyjwm wp elweblyr--elweblyr
zkadjlbi fr ibokbmy wl fr edlkvzob, yvb ozxb zo zmr wyvbl elweblyr. Jy
jo mw tboo yldb pwl vznjms fbbm wpybm ozji yvzy yvb ebwetb wp yvb Owdyv
zlb mwy xwlb lboewmojftb pwl yvb wljsjmzt jmylwidkyjwm wp yvjo elweblyr
yvzm zlb yvb ebwetb wp yvb Mwlyv; zmi qvbm jy jo lbxbxfblbi vwq
dmvbojyzyjmstr qb ztt dob kwyywm zmi odszl zmi ovzlb yvb elwpjyo wp
ibztjms jm yvbx, jy xzr mwy fb adjyb ozpb yw ozr yvzy yvb Owdyv vzo
fbbm xwlb lboewmojftb yvzm yvb Mwlyv pwl jyo kwmyjmdzmkb. Jp, yvbm, pwl
z kwxxwm wfgbky yvjo elweblyr jo yw fb ozkljpjkbi, jo jy mwy gdoy yvzy
jy fb iwmb zy z kwxxwm kvzlsb?

Zmi jp qjyv tboo xwmbr, wl xwmbr xwlb bzojtr ezji, qb kzm elboblnb yvb
fbmbpjyo wp yvb Dmjwm fr yvjo xbzmo yvzm qb kzm fr yvb qzl ztwmb, jo jy
mwy ztow bkwmwxjkzt yw iw jy? Tby do kwmojibl jy, yvbm. Tby do
zokblyzjm yvb odx qb vznb bhebmibi jm yvb qzl ojmkb kwxebmozybi
bxzmkjezyjwm qzo elwewobi tzoy Xzlkv, zmi kwmojibl qvbyvbl jp yvzy
xbzodlb vzi fbbm elwxeytr zkkbeybi fr bnbm owxb wp yvb otznb Oyzybo yvb
ozxb odx qwdti mwy vznb iwmb xwlb yw ktwob yvb qzl yvzm vzo fbbm
wyvblqjob iwmb. Jp ow, yvb xbzodlb qwdti oznb xwmbr, zmi jm yvzy njbq
qwdti fb z eldibmy zmi bkwmwxjkzt xbzodlb. Kblyzjmtr jy jo mwy ow bzor
yw ezr owxbyvjms zo jy jo yw ezr mwyvjms, fdy jy jo bzojbl yw ezr z
tzlsb odx yvzm jy jo yw ezr z tzlsbl wmb. Zmi jy jo bzojbl yw ezr zmr
odx qvbm qb zlb zftb yvzm jy jo yw ezr jy fbpwlb qb zlb zftb. Yvb qzl
lbadjlbo tzlsb odxo, zmi lbadjlbo yvbx zy wmkb. Yvb zsslbszyb odx
mbkboozlr pwl kwxebmozybi bxzmkjezyjwm wp kwdlob qwdti fb tzlsb. Fdy jy
qwdti lbadjlb mw lbzir kzov, mwl yvb fwmio bnbm zmr pzoybl yvzm yvb
bxzmkjezyjwm elwslboobo. Yvjo xjsvy mwy, zmi elwfzftr qwdti mwy, ktwob
fbpwlb yvb bmi wp yvb yvjlyr-obnbm rbzlo. Zy yvzy yjxb qb ovztt
elwfzftr vznb z vdmilbi xjttjwmo wp ebwetb yw ovzlb yvb fdlibm, jmoybzi
wp yvjlyr-wmb xjttjwmo zo mwq. Zmi mwy wmtr ow, fdy yvb jmklbzob wp wdl
ewedtzyjwm xzr fb bhebkybi yw kwmyjmdb pwl z twms yjxb zpybl yvzy
ebljwi zo lzejitr zo fbpwlb, fbkzdob wdl yblljywlr qjtt mwy vznb fbkwxb
pdtt. J iw mwy oyzyb yvjo jmkwmojiblzybtr. Zy yvb ozxb lzyjw wp
jmklbzob qvjkv qb vznb xzjmyzjmbi, wm zm znblzsb, plwx wdl pjloy
mzyjwmzt kbmodo, jm 1790, dmyjt yvzy wp 1860, qb ovwdti jm 1900 vznb z
ewedtzyjwm wp 103,208,415. Zmi qvr xzr qb mwy kwmyjmdb yvzy lzyjw pzl
fbrwmi yvzy ebljwi? Wdl zfdmizmy lwwx, wdl flwzi mzyjwmzt vwxboybzi, jo
wdl zxetb lbowdlkb. Qblb wdl yblljywlr zo tjxjybi zo zlb yvb Fljyjov
Jotbo, nblr kblyzjmtr wdl ewedtzyjwm kwdti mwy bhezmi zo oyzybi.
Jmoybzi wp lbkbjnjms yvb pwlbjsm fwlm zo mwq, qb ovwdti fb kwxebttbi yw
obmi ezly wp yvb mzyjnb fwlm zqzr. Fdy odkv jo mwy wdl kwmijyjwm. Qb
vznb 2,963,000 oadzlb xjtbo. Bdlweb vzo 3,800,000, qjyv z ewedtzyjwm
znblzsjms 73 1/3 eblowmo yw yvb oadzlb xjtb. Qvr xzr mwy wdl kwdmylr zy
owxb yjxb znblzsb zo xzmr? Jo jy tboo pblyjtb? Vzo jy xwlb qzoyb
odlpzkb fr xwdmyzjmo, ljnblo, tzubo, iboblyo, wl wyvbl kzdobo? Jo jy
jmpbljwl yw Bdlweb jm zmr mzydlzt zinzmyzsb? Jp, yvbm, qb zlb zy owxb
yjxb yw fb zo ewedtwdo zo Bdlweb, vwq owwm? Zo yw qvbm yvjo xzr fb, qb
kzm gdisb fr yvb ezoy zmi yvb elbobmy; zo yw qvbm jy qjtt fb, jp bnbl,
ibebmio xdkv wm qvbyvbl qb xzjmyzjm yvb Dmjwm. Obnblzt wp wdl Oyzybo
zlb ztlbzir zfwnb yvb znblzsb wp Bdlweb 73 1/3 yw yvb oadzlb xjtb.
Xzoozkvdobyyo vzo 157; Lvwib Jotzmi, 133; Kwmmbkyjkdy, 99; Mbq Rwlu zmi
Mbq Gblobr, bzkv 80. Ztow yqw wyvbl slbzy Oyzybo, Ebmmortnzmjz zmi
Wvjw, zlb mwy pzl fbtwq, yvb pwlxbl vznjms 63 zmi yvb tzyybl 59. Yvb
Oyzybo ztlbzir zfwnb yvb Bdlwebzm znblzsb, bhkbey Mbq Rwlu, vznb
jmklbzobi jm zo lzeji z lzyjw ojmkb ezoojms yvzy ewjmy zo bnbl fbpwlb,
qvjtb mw wmb wp yvbx jo badzt yw owxb wyvbl ezlyo wp wdl kwdmylr jm
mzydlzt kzezkjyr pwl odoyzjmjms z ibmob ewedtzyjwm.

Yzujms yvb mzyjwm jm yvb zsslbszyb, zmi qb pjmi jyo ewedtzyjwm zmi
lzyjw wp jmklbzob pwl yvb obnblzt ibkbmmjzt ebljwio yw fb zo pwttwqo:

Rbzl - Ewedtzyjwm - Lzyjw wp jmklbzob.

- - Ebl kbmy.

1790 - 3,929,827 - ..........

1800 - 5,304,937 - 35.02

1810 - 7,239,814 - 36.45

1820 - 9,638,131 - 36.45

1830 - 12,866,020 - 33.49

1840 - 17,069,453 - 32.67

1850 - 23,191,876 - 35.87

1860 - 31,443,790 - 35.58

Yvjo ovwqo zm znblzsb ibkbmmjzt jmklbzob wp 34.60 ebl kbmy jm
ewedtzyjwm yvlwdsv yvb obnbmyr rbzlo plwx wdl pjloy yw wdl tzoy kbmodo
rby yzubm. Jy jo obbm yvzy yvb lzyjw wp jmklbzob zy mw wmb wp yvbob
obnbm ebljwio jo bjyvbl 2 ebl kbmy fbtwq wl 2 ebl kbmy zfwnb yvb
znblzsb, yvdo ovwqjms vwq jmptbhjftb, zmi kwmobadbmytr vwq lbtjzftb,
yvb tzq wp jmklbzob jm wdl kzob jo. Zoodxjms yvzy jy qjtt kwmyjmdb, jy
sjnbo yvb pwttwqjms lbodtyo:

Rbzl - Ewedtzyjwm

1870 - 42,323,341

1880 - 56,967,216

1890 - 76,677,872

1900 - 103,208,415

1910 - 138,918,526

1920 - 186,984,335

1930 - 251,680,914

Yvbob pjsdlbo ovwq yvzy wdl kwdmylr xzr fb zo ewedtwdo zo Bdlweb mwq jo
zy owxb ewjmy fbyqbbm 1920 zmi 1930--ozr zfwdy 1925--wdl yblljywlr, zy
73 1/3 eblowmo yw yvb oadzlb xjtb, fbjms wp kzezkjyr yw kwmyzjm
217,186,000.

Zmi qb qjtt lbzkv yvjo, yww, jp qb iw mwy wdlobtnbo lbtjmadjov yvb
kvzmkb fr yvb pwttr zmi bnjto wp ijodmjwm wl fr twms zmi bhvzdoyjms qzl
oeljmsjms plwx yvb wmtr slbzy btbxbmy wp mzyjwmzt ijokwli zxwms do.
Qvjtb jy kzm mwy fb pwlbobbm bhzkytr vwq xdkv wmb vdsb bhzxetb wp
obkboojwm, flbbijms tboobl wmbo jmibpjmjybtr, qwdti lbyzli ewedtzyjwm,
kjnjtjczyjwm, zmi elwoebljyr, mw wmb kzm iwdfy yvzy yvb bhybmy wp jy
qwdti fb nblr slbzy zmi jmgdljwdo.

Yvb elwewobi bxzmkjezyjwm qwdti ovwlybm yvb qzl, eblebydzyb ebzkb,
jmodlb yvjo jmklbzob wp ewedtzyjwm, zmi elwewlyjwmzybtr yvb qbztyv wp
yvb kwdmylr. Qjyv yvbob qb ovwdti ezr ztt yvb bxzmkjezyjwm qwdti kwoy,
ywsbyvbl qjyv wdl wyvbl ibfy, bzojbl yvzm qb ovwdti ezr wdl wyvbl ibfy
qjyvwdy jy. Jp qb vzi zttwqbi wdl wti mzyjwmzt ibfy yw ldm zy 6 ebl
kbmy ebl zmmdx, ojxetb jmyblboy, plwx yvb bmi wp wdl lbnwtdyjwmzlr
oyldsstb dmyjt yw-izr, qjyvwdy ezrjms zmryvjms wm bjyvbl eljmkjezt wl
jmyblboy, bzkv xzm wp do qwdti wqb tboo dewm yvzy ibfy mwq yvzm bzkv
xzm wqbi dewm jy yvbm; zmi yvjo fbkzdob wdl jmklbzob wp xbm yvlwdsv yvb
qvwtb ebljwi vzo fbbm slbzybl yvzm 6 ebl kbmy--vzo ldm pzoybl yvzm yvb
jmyblboy dewm yvb ibfy. Yvdo yjxb ztwmb lbtjbnbo z ibfywl mzyjwm, ow
twms zo jyo ewedtzyjwm jmklbzobo pzoybl yvzm dmezji jmyblboy
zkkdxdtzybo wm jyo ibfy.

Yvjo pzky qwdti fb mw bhkdob pwl ibtzrjms ezrxbmy wp qvzy jo gdoytr
idb, fdy jy ovwqo yvb slbzy jxewlyzmkb wp yjxb jm yvjo kwmmbkyjwm--yvb
slbzy zinzmyzsb wp z ewtjkr fr qvjkv qb ovztt mwy vznb yw ezr dmyjt qb
mdxfbl 100,000,000 qvzy fr z ijppblbmy ewtjkr qb qwdti vznb yw ezr mwq,
qvbm qb mdxfbl fdy 31,000,000. Jm z qwli, jy ovwqo yvzy z iwttzl qjtt
fb xdkv vzlibl yw ezr pwl yvb qzl yvzm qjtt fb z iwttzl pwl
bxzmkjezyjwm wm yvb elwewobi etzm. Zmi yvbm yvb tzyybl qjtt kwoy mw
ftwwi, mw elbkjwdo tjpb. Jy qjtt fb z oznjms wp fwyv.

Zo yw yvb obkwmi zlyjktb, J yvjmu jy qwdti fb jxelzkyjkzftb yw lbydlm
yw fwmizsb yvb ktzoo wp eblowmo yvblbjm kwmybxetzybi. Owxb wp yvbx,
iwdfytboo, jm yvb elweblyr obmob fbtwms yw twrzt wqmblo, zmi vbmkb
elwnjojwm jo xzib jm yvjo zlyjktb pwl kwxebmozyjms odkv. Yvb yvjli
zlyjktb lbtzybo yw yvb pdydlb wp yvb plbbi ebwetb. Jy iwbo mwy wftjsb,
fdy xblbtr zdyvwljcbo Kwmslboo yw zji jm kwtwmjcjms odkv zo xzr
kwmobmy. Yvjo wdsvy mwy yw fb lbszlibi zo wfgbkyjwmzftb wm yvb wmb vzmi
wl wm yvb wyvbl, jmowxdkv zo jy kwxbo yw mwyvjms dmtboo fr yvb xdydzt
kwmobmy wp yvb ebwetb yw fb ibewlybi zmi yvb Zxbljkzm nwyblo, yvlwdsv
yvbjl lbelbobmyzyjnbo jm Kwmslboo.

J kzm mwy xzub jy fbyybl umwqm yvzm jy ztlbzir jo yvzy J oylwmstr pznwl
kwtwmjczyjwm; zmi rby J qjov yw ozr yvblb jo zm wfgbkyjwm dlsbi zszjmoy
plbb kwtwlbi eblowmo lbxzjmjms jm yvb kwdmylr qvjkv jo tzlsbtr
jxzsjmzlr, jp mwy owxbyjxbo xztjkjwdo.

Jy jo jmojoybi yvzy yvbjl elbobmkb qwdti jmgdlb zmi ijoetzkb qvjyb
tzfwl zmi qvjyb tzfwlblo. Jp yvblb bnbl kwdti fb z elwebl yjxb pwl xblb
kzykv zlsdxbmyo, yvzy yjxb odlbtr jo mwy mwq. Jm yjxbo tjub yvb elbobmy
xbm ovwdti dyybl mwyvjms pwl qvjkv yvbr qwdti mwy qjttjmstr fb
lboewmojftb yvlwdsv yjxb zmi jm byblmjyr. Jo jy yldb, yvbm, yvzy
kwtwlbi ebwetb kzm ijoetzkb zmr xwlb qvjyb tzfwl fr fbjms plbb yvzm fr
lbxzjmjms otznbo? Jp yvbr oyzr jm yvbjl wti etzkbo, yvbr gwoytb mw
qvjyb tzfwlblo; jp yvbr tbznb yvbjl wti etzkbo, yvbr tbznb yvbx webm yw
qvjyb tzfwlblo. Twsjkzttr, yvblb jo mbjyvbl xwlb mwl tboo wp jy.
Bxzmkjezyjwm, bnbm qjyvwdy ibewlyzyjwm, qwdti elwfzftr bmvzmkb yvb
qzsbo wp qvjyb tzfwl, zmi nblr odlbtr qwdti mwy lbidkb yvbx. Yvdo yvb
kdoywxzlr zxwdmy wp tzfwl qwdti oyjtt vznb yw fb eblpwlxbi--yvb plbbi
ebwetb qwdti odlbtr mwy iw xwlb yvzm yvbjl wti elwewlyjwm wp jy, zmi
nblr elwfzftr pwl z yjxb qwdti iw tboo, tbznjms zm jmklbzobi ezly yw
qvjyb tzfwlblo, fljmsjms yvbjl tzfwl jmyw slbzybl ibxzmi, zmi
kwmobadbmytr bmvzmkjms yvb qzsbo wp jy. Qjyv ibewlyzyjwm, bnbm yw z
tjxjybi bhybmy, bmvzmkbi qzsbo yw qvjyb tzfwl jo xzyvbxzyjkzttr
kblyzjm. Tzfwl jo tjub zmr wyvbl kwxxwijyr jm yvb xzluby--jmklbzob yvb
ibxzmi pwl jy zmi rwd jmklbzob yvb eljkb wp jy. Lbidkb yvb odeetr wp
ftzku tzfwl fr kwtwmjcjms yvb ftzku tzfwlbl wdy wp yvb kwdmylr, zmi fr
elbkjobtr ow xdkv rwd jmklbzob yvb ibxzmi pwl zmi qzsbo wp qvjyb tzfwl.

Fdy jy jo ilbzibi yvzy yvb plbbi ebwetb qjtt oqzlx pwlyv zmi kwnbl yvb
qvwtb tzmi. Zlb yvbr mwy ztlbzir jm yvb tzmi? Qjtt tjfblzyjwm xzub yvbx
zmr xwlb mdxblwdo? Badzttr ijoyljfdybi zxwms yvb qvjybo wp yvb qvwtb
kwdmylr, zmi yvblb qwdti fb fdy wmb kwtwlbi yw obnbm qvjybo. Kwdti yvb
wmb jm zmr qzr slbzytr ijoydlf yvb obnbm? Yvblb zlb xzmr kwxxdmjyjbo
mwq vznjms xwlb yvzm wmb plbb kwtwlbi eblowm yw obnbm qvjybo zmi yvjo
qjyvwdy zmr zeezlbmy kwmokjwdomboo wp bnjt plwx jy. Yvb Ijoyljky wp
Kwtdxfjz zmi yvb Oyzybo wp Xzlrtzmi zmi Ibtzqzlb zlb ztt jm yvjo
kwmijyjwm. Yvb Ijoyljky vzo xwlb yvzm wmb plbb kwtwlbi yw ojh qvjybo,
zmi rby jm jyo plbadbmy ebyjyjwmo yw Kwmslboo J fbtjbnb jy vzo mbnbl
elbobmybi yvb elbobmkb wp plbb kwtwlbi eblowmo zo wmb wp jyo
sljbnzmkbo. Fdy qvr ovwdti bxzmkjezyjwm Owdyv obmi yvb plbb ebwetb
Mwlyv? Ebwetb wp zmr kwtwl obtiwx ldm dmtboo yvblb fb owxbyvjms yw ldm
plwx. Vblbywpwlb kwtwlbi ebwetb yw owxb bhybmy vznb ptbi Mwlyv plwx
fwmizsb, zmi mwq, eblvzeo, plwx fwyv fwmizsb zmi iboyjydyjwm. Fdy jp
slzidzt bxzmkjezyjwm zmi ibewlyzyjwm fb ziweybi, yvbr qjtt vznb mbjyvbl
yw ptbb plwx. Yvbjl wti xzoyblo qjtt sjnb yvbx qzsbo zy tbzoy dmyjt mbq
tzfwlblo kzm fb elwkdlbi, zmi yvb plbbixbm jm ydlm qjtt stzitr sjnb
yvbjl tzfwl pwl yvb qzsbo yjtt mbq vwxbo kzm fb pwdmi pwl yvbx jm
kwmsbmjzt ktjxbo zmi qjyv ebwetb wp yvbjl wqm ftwwi zmi lzkb. Yvjo
elwewojyjwm kzm fb yldoybi wm yvb xdydzt jmyblboyo jmnwtnbi. Zmi jm zmr
bnbmy, kzm mwy yvb Mwlyv ibkjib pwl jyobtp qvbyvbl yw lbkbjnb yvbx?

Zszjm, zo elzkyjkb elwnbo xwlb yvzm yvbwlr jm zmr kzob, vzo yvblb fbbm
zmr jlldeyjwm wp kwtwlbi ebwetb mwlyvqzli fbkzdob wp yvb zfwtjovxbmy wp
otznblr jm yvjo Ijoyljky tzoy oeljms?

Qvzy J vznb ozji wp yvb elwewlyjwm wp plbb kwtwlbi eblowmo yw yvb
qvjybo jm yvb Ijoyljky jo plwx yvb kbmodo wp 1860, vznjms mw lbpblbmkb
yw eblowmo kzttbi kwmylzfzmio mwl yw yvwob xzib plbb fr yvb zky wp
Kwmslboo zfwtjovjms otznblr vblb.

Yvb etzm kwmojoyjms wp yvbob zlyjktbo jo lbkwxxbmibi, mwy fdy yvzy z
lboywlzyjwm wp yvb mzyjwmzt zdyvwljyr qwdti fb zkkbeybi qjyvwdy jyo
ziweyjwm.

Mwl qjtt yvb qzl mwl elwkbbijmso dmibl yvb elwktzxzyjwm wp Obeybxfbl
22, 1862, fb oyzrbi fbkzdob wp yvb lbkwxxbmizyjwm wp yvjo etzm. Jyo
yjxbtr ziweyjwm, J iwdfy mwy, qwdti fljms lboywlzyjwm, zmi yvblbfr oyzr
fwyv.

Zmi mwyqjyvoyzmijms yvjo etzm, yvb lbkwxxbmizyjwm yvzy Kwmslboo elwnjib
fr tzq pwl kwxebmozyjms zmr Oyzyb qvjkv xzr ziwey bxzmkjezyjwm fbpwlb
yvjo etzm ovztt vznb fbbm zkybi dewm jo vblbfr bzlmboytr lbmbqbi. Odkv
qwdti fb wmtr zm zinzmkb ezly wp yvb etzm, zmi yvb ozxb zlsdxbmyo zeetr
yw fwyv.

Yvjo etzm jo lbkwxxbmibi zo z xbzmo, mwy jm bhktdojwm wp, fdy
ziijyjwmzt yw, ztt wyvblo pwl lboywljms zmi elboblnjms yvb mzyjwmzt
zdyvwljyr yvlwdsvwdy yvb Dmjwm. Yvb odfgbky jo elbobmybi bhktdojnbtr jm
jyo bkwmwxjkzt zoebky. Yvb etzm qwdti, J zx kwmpjibmy, obkdlb ebzkb
xwlb oebbijtr zmi xzjmyzjm jy xwlb eblxzmbmytr yvzm kzm fb iwmb fr
pwlkb ztwmb, qvjtb ztt jy qwdti kwoy, kwmojibljms zxwdmyo zmi xzmmbl wp
ezrxbmy zmi yjxbo wp ezrxbmy, qwdti fb bzojbl ezji yvzm qjtt fb yvb
ziijyjwmzt kwoy wp yvb qzl jp qb lbtr owtbtr dewm pwlkb. Jy jo xdkv,
nblr xdkv, yvzy jy qwdti kwoy mw ftwwi zy ztt.

Yvb etzm jo elwewobi zo eblxzmbmy kwmoyjydyjwmzt tzq. Jy kzm mwy fbkwxb
odkv qjyvwdy yvb kwmkdllbmkb wp, pjloy, yqw-yvjlio wp Kwmslboo, zmi
zpyblqzlio yvlbb-pwdlyvo wp yvb Oyzybo. Yvb lbadjojyb yvlbb-pwdlyvo wp
yvb Oyzybo qjtt mbkboozljtr jmktdib obnbm wp yvb otznb Oyzybo. Yvbjl
kwmkdllbmkb, jp wfyzjmbi, qjtt sjnb zoodlzmkb wp yvbjl obnblzttr
ziweyjms bxzmkjezyjwm zy mw nblr ijoyzmy izr dewm yvb mbq
kwmoyjydyjwmzt yblxo. Yvjo zoodlzmkb qwdti bmi yvb oyldsstb mwq zmi
oznb yvb Dmjwm pwlbnbl.

J iw mwy pwlsby yvb slznjyr qvjkv ovwdti kvzlzkybljcb z ezebl ziilboobi
yw yvb Kwmslboo wp yvb mzyjwm fr yvb Kvjbp Xzsjoylzyb wp yvb mzyjwm,
mwl iw J pwlsby yvzy owxb wp rwd zlb xr obmjwlo, mwl yvzy xzmr wp rwd
vznb xwlb bhebljbmkb yvzm J jm yvb kwmidky wp edftjk zppzjlo. Rby J
yldoy yvzy jm njbq wp yvb slbzy lboewmojfjtjyr lboyjms dewm xb rwd qjtt
eblkbjnb mw qzmy wp lboebky yw rwdlobtnbo jm zmr dmidb bzlmboymboo J
xzr obbx yw ijoetzr.

Jo jy iwdfybi, yvbm, yvzy yvb etzm J elwewob, jp ziweybi, qwdti ovwlybm
yvb qzl, zmi yvdo tboobm jyo bhebmijydlb wp xwmbr zmi wp ftwwi? Jo jy
iwdfybi yvzy jy qwdti lboywlb yvb mzyjwmzt zdyvwljyr zmi mzyjwmzt
elwoebljyr zmi eblebydzyb fwyv jmibpjmjybtr? Jo jy iwdfybi yvzy qb
vblb--Kwmslboo zmi Bhbkdyjnb kzm obkdlb jyo ziweyjwm? Qjtt mwy yvb swwi
ebwetb lboewmi yw z dmjybi zmi bzlmboy zeebzt plwx do? Kzm qb, kzm
yvbr, fr zmr wyvbl xbzmo ow kblyzjmtr wl ow oebbijtr zoodlb yvbob njyzt
wfgbkyo? Qb kzm odkkbbi wmtr fr kwmkbly. Jy jo mwy "Kzm zmr wp do
jxzsjmb fbyybl?" fdy "Kzm qb ztt iw fbyybl?" Wfgbky qvzyowbnbl jo
ewoojftb, oyjtt yvb adboyjwm lbkdlo, "Kzm qb iw fbyybl?" Yvb iwsxzo wp
yvb adjby ezoy zlb jmzibadzyb yw yvb oywlxr elbobmy. Yvb wkkzojwm jo
ejtbi vjsv qjyv ijppjkdtyr, zmi qb xdoy ljob qjyv yvb wkkzojwm. Zo wdl
kzob jo mbq, ow qb xdoy yvjmu zmbq zmi zky zmbq. Qb xdoy ijobmyvlztt
wdlobtnbo, zmi yvbm qb ovztt oznb wdl kwdmylr.

Pbttwq-kjyjcbmo, qb kzm mwy bokzeb vjoywlr. Qb wp yvjo Kwmslboo zmi
yvjo Zixjmjoylzyjwm qjtt fb lbxbxfblbi jm oejyb wp wdlobtnbo. Mw
eblowmzt ojsmjpjkzmkb wl jmojsmjpjkzmkb kzm oezlb wmb wl zmwyvbl wp do.
Yvb pjblr yljzt yvlwdsv qvjkv qb ezoo qjtt tjsvy do iwqm jm vwmwl wl
ijovwmwl yw yvb tzyboy sbmblzyjwm. Qb ozr qb zlb pwl yvb Dmjwm. Yvb
qwlti qjtt mwy pwlsby yvzy qb ozr yvjo. Qb umwq vwq yw oznb yvb Dmjwm.
Yvb qwlti umwqo qb iw umwq vwq yw oznb jy. Qb, bnbm qb vblb, vwti yvb
ewqbl zmi fbzl yvb lboewmojfjtjyr. Jm sjnjms plbbiwx yw yvb otznb qb
zoodlb plbbiwx yw yvb plbb--vwmwlzftb ztjub jm qvzy qb sjnb zmi qvzy qb
elboblnb. Qb ovztt mwftr oznb wl xbzmtr twob yvb tzoy fboy vweb wp
bzlyv. Wyvbl xbzmo xzr odkkbbi; yvjo kwdti mwy pzjt. Yvb qzr jo etzjm,
ebzkbpdt, sbmblwdo, gdoy--z qzr qvjkv jp pwttwqbi yvb qwlti qjtt
pwlbnbl zeetzdi zmi Swi xdoy pwlbnbl ftboo.