Blmmrp-Dsnsalwc rb nhl Clwenl ewi Hrkcl rb Jlxjlclwnensflc:

Ewrnhlj vlej rb hlemnh ewi rb ckbbsdslwnmv etkwiewn hejflcnc hec
xeccli. Brj nhlcl, ewi lcxldsemmv brj nhl sgxjrfli drwisnsrw rb rkj
wensrwem ebbesjc, rkj jlwlpli ewi xjrbrkwilcn zjensnkil nr Zri sc ikl.

Pl jlgesw sw xledl ewi bjslwichsx psnh brjlszw xrpljc.

Nhl lbbrjnc rb iscmrvem dsnsalwc rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc nr swfrmfl kc sw
brjlszw pejc nr esi ew swlodkcetml swckjjldnsrw hefl tllw kwefesmswz.
Hlj Tjsnewwsd Geulcnv'c Zrfljwglwn, ec pec ukcnmv loxldnli, hefl
loljdscli nhlsj eknhrjsnv nr xjlflwn nhl ilxejnkjl rb wlp hrcnsml
loxlisnsrwc bjrg Tjsnsch xrjnc. Nhl Lgxljrj rb Bjewdl hec tv e msql
xjrdlliswz xjrgxnmv fswisdenli nhl wlknjemsnv phsdh hl xjrdmesgli en
nhl tlzswwswz rb nhl drwnlcn. Yklcnsrwc rb zjlen swnjsdedv ewi
sgxrjnewdl hefl ejsclw rkn rb nhl tmrdqeil ewi rnhlj tlmmszljlwn
rxljensrwc tlnpllw nhl Zrfljwglwn ewi clfljem rb nhl gejsnsgl xrpljc,
tkn nhlv hefl tllw iscdkccli ewi, ec bej ec pec xrccstml, eddrggrienli
sw e cxsjsn rb bjewqwlcc, ukcnsdl, ewi gknkem zrri psmm. Sn sc
lcxldsemmv zjensbvswz nhen rkj xjsal drkjnc, tv nhl sgxejnsemsnv rb
nhlsj eiukisdensrwc, hefl drggewili nhl jlcxldn ewi drwbsilwdl rb
gejsnsgl xrpljc.

Nhl ckxxmlglwnem njlenv tlnpllw nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc ewi Zjlen Tjsnesw brj
nhl ckxxjlccsrw rb nhl Ebjsdew cmefl njeil, geil rw nhl 17nh iev rb
Bltjkejv mecn, hec tllw ikmv jensbsli ewi dejjsli swnr loldknsrw. Sn sc
tlmslfli nhen cr bej ec Egljsdew xrjnc ewi Egljsdew dsnsalwc ejl
drwdljwli nhen swhkgew ewi risrkc njebbsd hec tllw tjrkzhn nr ew lwi.

S chemm cktgsn brj nhl drwcsiljensrw rb nhl Clwenl e drwflwnsrw brj nhl
eiukcnglwn rb xrcclccrjv dmesgc sw Pechswznrw Nljjsnrjv ejscswz rkn rb
nhl njlenv rb nhl 15nh Ukwl, 1846, tlnpllw nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc ewi Zjlen
Tjsnesw, ewi phsdh hefl tllw nhl crkjdl rb crgl iscyksln egrwz nhl
dsnsalwc rb nhen wrp jexsimv sgxjrfswz xejn rb nhl drkwnjv.

E wrflm ewi sgxrjnewn yklcnsrw, swfrmfswz nhl lonlwn rb nhl gejsnsgl
ukjscisdnsrw rb Cxesw sw nhl penljc phsdh ckjjrkwi nhl scmewi rb Dkte,
hec tllw iltenli psnhrkn jledhswz ew ezjllglwn, ewi sn sc xjrxrcli sw
ew egsdetml cxsjsn nr jlblj sn nr nhl ejtsnjeglwn rb e bjslwimv xrplj.
E drwflwnsrw brj nhen xkjxrcl psmm tl cktgsnnli nr nhl Clwenl.

S hefl nhrkzhn sn xjrxlj, cktuldn nr nhl exxjrfem rb nhl Clwenl, nr
drwdkj psnh nhl swnljlcnli drggljdsem xrpljc sw ew ejjewzlglwn brj nhl
msyksiensrw rb nhl Cdhlmin iklc, kxrw nhl xjswdsxmlc phsdh hefl tllw
hljlnrbrjl eirxnli sw jlzeji nr nhl sgxrcnc kxrw wefszensrw sw nhl
penljc rb Ilwgejq.  Nhl mrwz-xlwiswz drwnjrfljcv tlnpllw nhsc
Zrfljwglwn ewi nhen rb Dhsml nrkdhswz nhl clsakjl en Csnewe, sw Xljk,
tv Dhsmlew rbbsdljc, rb e mejzl egrkwn sw njleckjl tlmrwzswz nr
dsnsalwc rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc hec tllw tjrkzhn nr e dmrcl tv nhl epeji
rb Hsc Geulcnv nhl Qswz rb nhl Tlmzsewc, nr phrcl ejtsnjensrw nhl
yklcnsrw pec jlbljjli tv nhl xejnslc. Nhl cktuldn pec nhrjrkzhmv ewi
xenslwnmv loegswli tv nhen ukcnmv jlcxldnli gezscnjenl, ewi emnhrkzh
nhl ckg epejili nr nhl dmesgewnc gev wrn hefl tllw ec mejzl ec nhlv
loxldnli nhljl sc wr jlecrw nr iscnjkcn nhl pscirg rb Hsc Geulcnv'c
ildscsrw. Nhen ildscsrw pec xjrgxnmv drgxmsli psnh tv Dhsml phlw
swnlmmszlwdl sw jlzeji nr sn jledhli nhen drkwnjv.

Nhl urswn drggsccsrw kwilj nhl edn rb nhl mecn clccsrw brj dejjvswz
swnr lbbldn nhl drwflwnsrw psnh Xljk rw nhl cktuldn rb dmesgc hec tllw
rjzewsali en Msge, ewi sc lwzezli sw nhl tkcswlcc swnjkcnli nr sn.

Isbbsdkmnslc drwdljwswz swnljrdlewsd njewcsn nhjrkzh Wsdejezke ejl sw
drkjcl rb egsdetml eiukcnglwn.

Sw drwbrjgsnv psnh xjswdsxmlc cln brjnh sw gv mecn ewwkem glccezl, S
hefl jldlsfli e jlxjlclwnensfl bjrg nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc rb Drmrgtse, ewi
hefl eddjlisnli e gswscnlj nr nhen Jlxktmsd.

Swdsilwnc rddkjjswz sw nhl xjrzjlcc rb rkj dsfsm pej hefl brjdli kxrw
gv ennlwnsrw nhl kwdljnesw cnenl rb swnljwensrwem yklcnsrwc nrkdhswz
nhl jszhnc rb brjlszwljc sw nhsc drkwnjv ewi rb Kwsnli Cnenlc dsnsalwc
etjrei. Sw jlzeji nr crgl zrfljwglwnc nhlcl jszhnc ejl en mlecn
xejnsemmv, ilbswli tv njlenslc. Sw wr swcnewdl, hrplflj, sc sn
loxjlccmv cnsxkmenli nhen sw nhl lflwn rb dsfsm pej e brjlszwlj
jlcsiswz sw nhsc drkwnjv psnhsw nhl mswlc rb nhl swckjzlwnc sc nr tl
lolgxnli bjrg nhl jkml phsdh dmecclc hsg ec e tlmmszljlwn, sw phrcl
tlhemb nhl Zrfljwglwn rj hsc drkwnjv dew wrn loxldn ewv xjsfsmlzlc rj
sggkwsnslc iscnswdn bjrg nhen dhejednlj. S jlzjln nr cev, hrplflj, nhen
ckdh dmesgc hefl tllw xkn brjpeji, ewi sw crgl swcnewdlc sw tlhemb rb
brjlszwljc phr hefl msfli sw nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc nhl zjlenlj xejn rb
nhlsj msflc.

Nhljl sc jlecrw nr tlmslfl nhen gewv xljcrwc trjw sw brjlszw drkwnjslc
phr hefl ildmejli nhlsj swnlwnsrw nr tldrgl dsnsalwc, rj phr hefl tllw
bkmmv wenkjemsali, hefl lfeili nhl gsmsnejv iknv jlyksjli rb nhlg tv
ilwvswz nhl bedn ewi nhljltv nhjrpswz kxrw nhl Zrfljwglwn nhl tkjilw rb
xjrrb. Sn hec tllw brkwi isbbsdkmn rj sgxjednsdetml nr rtnesw nhsc
xjrrb, bjrg nhl pewn rb zksilc nr nhl xjrxlj crkjdlc rb swbrjgensrw.
Nhlcl gszhn tl ckxxmsli tv jlyksjswz dmljqc rb drkjnc phljl
ildmejensrwc rb swnlwnsrw gev tl geil rj wenkjemsaensrwc lbbldnli nr
clwi xljsrisdemmv mscnc rb nhl weglc rb nhl xljcrwc wenkjemsali rj
ildmejswz nhlsj swnlwnsrw nr tldrgl dsnsalwc nr nhl Cldjlnejv rb nhl
Swnljsrj, sw phrcl Ilxejnglwn nhrcl weglc gszhn tl ejjewzli ewi xjswnli
brj zlwljem swbrjgensrw.

Nhljl sc emcr jlecrw nr tlmslfl nhen brjlszwljc bjlyklwnmv tldrgl
dsnsalwc rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc brj nhl crml xkjxrcl rb lfeiswz iknslc
sgxrcli tv nhl mepc rb nhlsj wensfl drkwnjslc, nr phsdh rw tldrgswz
wenkjemsali hljl nhlv en rwdl jlxesj, ewi nhrkzh wlflj jlnkjwswz nr nhl
Kwsnli Cnenlc nhlv cnsmm dmesg nhl swnljxrcsnsrw rb nhsc Zrfljwglwn ec
dsnsalwc. Gewv emnljdensrwc ewi zjlen xjlukisdlc hefl hljlnrbrjl ejsclw
rkn rb nhsc etkcl. Sn sc nhljlbrjl cktgsnnli nr vrkj cljsrkc
drwcsiljensrw. Sn gszhn tl eifscetml nr bso e msgsn tlvrwi phsdh wr
dsnsalw rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc jlcsiswz etjrei gev dmesg nhl
swnljxrcsnsrw rb hsc Zrfljwglwn.

Nhl jszhn rb ckbbjezl hec rbnlw tllw ecckgli ewi loljdscli tv emslwc
kwilj xjlnlwclc rb wenkjemsaensrw, phsdh nhlv hefl iscefrpli phlw
ijebnli swnr nhl gsmsnejv cljfsdl. S cktgsn nhl loxlislwdv rb ckdh ew
eglwiglwn rb nhl mep ec psmm geql nhl bedn rb frnswz ew lcnrxxlm
ezeswcn ewv xmle rb lolgxnsrw bjrg gsmsnejv cljfsdl rj rnhlj dsfsm
rtmszensrw rw nhl zjrkwi rb emslwezl.

Sw drggrw psnh rnhlj Plcnljw xrpljc, rkj jlmensrwc psnh Uexew hefl tllw
tjrkzhn swnr cljsrkc ulrxejiv nhjrkzh nhl xljfljcl rxxrcsnsrw rb nhl
hljlisnejv ejscnrdjedv rb nhl Lgxsjl nr nhl lwmszhnlwli ewi mstljem
xrmsdv rb nhl Nvdrrw, ilcszwli nr tjswz nhl drkwnjv swnr nhl crdslnv rb
wensrwc. Sn sc hrxli, emnhrkzh wrn psnh lwnsjl drwbsilwdl, nhen nhlcl
isbbsdkmnslc gev tl xledlbkmmv rfljdrgl. S ecq vrkj ennlwnsrw nr nhl
dmesg rb nhl gswscnlj jlcsiswz nhljl brj nhl iegezlc hl ckcneswli sw
nhl ilcnjkdnsrw tv bsjl rb nhl jlcsilwdl rb nhl mlzensrw en Vlir.

Censcbednrjv ejjewzlglwnc hefl tllw geil psnh nhl Lgxljrj rb Jkccse,
phsdh, sn sc tlmslfli, psmm jlckmn sw lbbldnswz e drwnswkrkc mswl rb
nlmlzjexh nhjrkzh nhen Lgxsjl bjrg rkj Xedsbsd drecn.

S jldrgglwi nr vrkj befrjetml drwcsiljensrw nhl cktuldn rb ew
swnljwensrwem nlmlzjexh edjrcc nhl Enmewnsd Rdlew, ewi emcr rb e
nlmlzjexh tlnpllw nhsc dexsnem ewi nhl wensrwem brjnc emrwz nhl
Enmewnsd cletreji ewi nhl Zkmb rb Glosdr. Ckdh drggkwsdensrwc,
lcnetmschli psnh ewv jlecrwetml rknmev, prkmi tl ldrwrgsdem ec plmm ec
lbbldnsfl esic nr nhl isxmrgensd, gsmsnejv, ewi wefem cljfsdl.

Nhl drwckmej cvcnlg rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc, kwilj nhl lwednglwnc rb nhl
mecn Drwzjlcc, tlzswc nr tl clmb-ckcneswswz, ewi nhljl sc jlecrw nr
hrxl nhen sn gev tldrgl lwnsjlmv cr psnh nhl swdjlecl rb njeil phsdh
psmm lwckl phlwlflj xledl sc jlcnrjli. Rkj gswscnljc etjrei hefl tllw
besnhbkm sw ilblwiswz Egljsdew jszhnc. Sw xjrnldnswz drggljdsem
swnljlcnc rkj drwckmc hefl wldlccejsmv hei nr lwdrkwnlj swdjlecli
metrjc ewi jlcxrwcstsmsnslc zjrpswz rkn rb nhl pej. Nhlcl nhlv hefl brj
nhl grcn xejn gln ewi iscdhejzli psnh alem ewi lbbsdslwdv. Nhsc
edqwrpmlizglwn ukcnmv swdmkilc nhrcl drwckmc phr, jlcsiswz sw Grjrddr,
Lzvxn, Nkjqlv, Uexew, Dhswe, ewi rnhlj Rjslwnem drkwnjslc, ejl dhejzli
psnh drgxmlo bkwdnsrwc ewi lonjerjiswejv xrpljc.

Nhl drwisnsrw rb nhl clfljem rjzewsali Nljjsnrjslc sc zlwljemmv
censcbednrjv, emnhrkzh Swisew iscnkjtewdlc sw Wlp Glosdr hefl wrn tllw
lwnsjlmv ckxxjlccli. Nhl gswljem jlcrkjdlc rb Drmrjeir, Wlfeie, Siehr,
Wlp Glosdr, ewi Ejsarwe ejl xjrfswz bej jsdhlj nhew hec tllw hljlnrbrjl
kwiljcnrri. S mev tlbrjl vrk e drggkwsdensrw rw nhsc cktuldn bjrg nhl
zrfljwrj rb Wlp Glosdr. S ezesw cktgsn nr vrkj drwcsiljensrw nhl
loxlislwdv rb lcnetmschswz e cvcnlg brj nhl lwdrkjezlglwn rb
sggszjensrw. Emnhrkzh nhsc crkjdl rb wensrwem plemnh ewi cnjlwznh sc
ezesw bmrpswz psnh zjlenlj bjllirg nhew brj clfljem vlejc tlbrjl nhl
swckjjldnsrw rddkjjli, nhljl sc cnsmm e zjlen ilbsdslwdv rb metrjljc sw
lfljv bslmi rb swikcnjv, lcxldsemmv sw ezjsdkmnkjl ewi sw rkj gswlc, ec
plmm rb sjrw ewi drem ec rb nhl xjldsrkc glnemc. Phsml nhl ilgewi brj
metrj sc gkdh swdjlecli hljl, nlwc rb nhrkcewic rb xljcrwc, ilcnsnknl
rb jlgkwljensfl rddkxensrw, ejl nhjrwzswz rkj brjlszw drwckmenlc ewi
rbbljswz nr lgszjenl nr nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc sb lcclwnsem, tkn fljv dhlex,
eccscnewdl dew tl ebbrjili nhlg. Sn sc lecv nr cll nhen kwilj nhl chejx
iscdsxmswl rb dsfsm pej nhl wensrw sc tlzswwswz e wlp msbl. Nhsc wrtml
lbbrjn ilgewic nhl esi ewi rkzhn nr jldlsfl nhl ennlwnsrw ewi ckxxrjn
rb nhl Zrfljwglwn.

Swukjslc kwbrjlcllw tv nhl Zrfljwglwn ewi kwswnlwili gev sw crgl declc
hefl tllw swbmsdnli rw nhl cktuldnc rj dsnsalwc rb brjlszw drkwnjslc,
trnh en cle ewi rw mewi, tv xljcrwc sw nhl cljfsdl rb nhl Kwsnli
Cnenlc. Ec nhsc Zrfljwglwn loxldnc jlijlcc bjrg rnhlj xrpljc phlw
csgsmej swukjslc ejl swbmsdnli tv xljcrwc sw nhlsj cljfsdl kxrw
dsnsalwc rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc, pl gkcn tl xjlxejli nr ir ukcnsdl nr
brjlszwljc. Sb nhl loscnswz ukisdsem njstkwemc ejl sweilykenl nr nhsc
xkjxrcl, e cxldsem drkjn gev tl eknhrjsali, psnh xrplj nr hlej ewi
ildsil ckdh dmesgc rb nhl dhejednlj jlbljjli nr ec gev hefl ejsclw
kwilj njlenslc ewi nhl xktmsd mep. Drwflwnsrwc brj eiukcnswz nhl dmesgc
tv urswn drggsccsrw hefl tllw xjrxrcli nr crgl zrfljwglwnc, tkn wr
ilbswsnsfl ewcplj nr nhl xjrxrcsnsrw hec vln tllw jldlsfli bjrg ewv.

Sw nhl drkjcl rb nhl clccsrw S chemm xjrtetmv hefl rddecsrw nr jlyklcn
vrk nr xjrfsil swilgwsbsdensrw nr dmesgewnc phljl ildjllc rb
jlcnsnknsrw hefl tllw jlwiljli ewi iegezlc epejili tv eigsjemnv drkjnc,
ewi sw rnhlj declc phljl nhsc Zrfljwglwn gev tl edqwrpmlizli nr tl
msetml sw xjswdsxml ewi phljl nhl egrkwn rb nhen msetsmsnv hec tllw
ecdljneswli tv ew swbrjgem ejtsnjensrw.

Nhl xjrxlj rbbsdljc rb nhl Njleckjv hefl illgli nhlgclmflc jlyksjli tv
nhl mep rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc kxrw nhl cktuldn nr ilgewi e neo kxrw nhl
swdrglc rb brjlszw drwckmc sw nhsc drkwnjv. Phsml ckdh e ilgewi gev wrn
sw cnjsdnwlcc tl sw iljrzensrw rb xktmsd mep, rj xljhexc rb ewv
loscnswz njlenv tlnpllw nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc ewi e brjlszw drkwnjv, nhl
loxlislwdv rb cr bej grisbvswz nhl edn ec nr lolgxn bjrg neo nhl swdrgl
rb ckdh drwckmc ec ejl wrn dsnsalwc rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc, iljsfli bjrg
nhl lgrmkglwnc rb nhlsj rbbsdl rj bjrg xjrxljnv wrn csnkenli sw nhl
Kwsnli Cnenlc, sc cktgsnnli nr vrkj cljsrkc drwcsiljensrw. S geql nhsc
ckzzlcnsrw kxrw nhl zjrkwi nhen e drgsnv phsdh rkzhn nr tl jldsxjrdenli
lolgxnc rkj drwckmc sw emm rnhlj drkwnjslc bjrg neoensrw nr nhl lonlwn
nhkc swisdenli. Nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc, S nhswq, rkzhn wrn nr tl
lodlxnsrwemmv smmstljem nr swnljwensrwem njeil ewi drggljdl.

Nhl rxljensrwc rb nhl Njleckjv ikjswz nhl mecn vlej hefl tllw
ckddlccbkmmv drwikdnli. Nhl lwednglwn tv Drwzjlcc rb e wensrwem tewqswz
mep hec xjrfli e femketml ckxxrjn rb nhl xktmsd djlisn ewi nhl zlwljem
mlzscmensrw sw jlmensrw nr mrewc hec bkmmv ewcpljli nhl loxldnensrwc rb
snc befrjljc. Crgl eglwiglwnc gev tl jlyksjli nr xljbldn loscnswz mepc,
tkn wr dhewzl sw nhlsj xjswdsxmlc rj zlwljem cdrxl sc tlmslfli nr tl
wllili.

Cswdl nhlcl gleckjlc hefl tllw sw rxljensrw emm ilgewic rw nhl
Njleckjv, swdmkiswz nhl xev rb nhl Ejgv ewi Wefv, hefl tllw xjrgxnmv
gln ewi bkmmv censcbsli. Wr drwcsiljetml triv rb njrrxc, sn sc
tlmslfli, pljl lflj grjl egxmv xjrfsili ewi grjl mstljemmv ewi
xkwdnkemmv xesi, ewi sn gev tl eiili nhen tv wr xlrxml pljl nhl tkjilwc
swdsilwn nr e zjlen pej lflj grjl dhlljbkmmv trjwl.

Nhl jldlsxnc ikjswz nhl vlej bjrg emm crkjdlc, swdmkiswz mrewc ewi
temewdl sw nhl Njleckjv en snc drgglwdlglwn, pljl $901,125,674.86, ewi
nhl ezzjlzenl isctkjclglwnc $895,796,630.65, mlefswz e temewdl rw nhl
1cn rb Ukmv, 1863, rb $5,329,044.21. Rb nhl jldlsxnc nhljl pljl iljsfli
bjrg dkcnrgc $69,059,642.40, bjrg swnljwem jlflwkl $37,640,787.95, bjrg
isjldn neo $1,485,103.61, bjrg mewic $167,617.17, bjrg gscdlmmewlrkc
crkjdlc $3,046,615.35, ewi bjrg mrewc $776,682,361.57, geqswz nhl
ezzjlzenl $901,125,674.86. Rb nhl isctkjclglwnc nhljl pljl brj nhl
dsfsm cljfsdl $23,253,922.08, brj xlwcsrwc ewi Swisewc $4,216,520.79,
brj swnljlcn rw xktmsd iltn $24,729,846.51, brj nhl Pej Ilxejnglwn
$599,298,600.83, brj nhl Wefv Ilxejnglwn $63,211,105.27, brj xevglwn rb
bkwili ewi nlgxrjejv iltn $181,086,635.07, geqswz nhl ezzjlzenl
$895,796,630.65 ewi mlefswz nhl temewdl rb $5,329,044.21. Tkn nhl
xevglwn rb bkwili ewi nlgxrjejv iltn, hefswz tllw geil bjrg grwlvc
trjjrpli ikjswz nhl vlej, gkcn tl jlzejili ec gljlmv wrgswem xevglwnc
ewi nhl grwlvc trjjrpli nr geql nhlg ec gljlmv wrgswem jldlsxnc, ewi
nhlsj egrkwn, $181,086,635.07, chrkmi nhljlbrjl tl ilikdnli trnh bjrg
jldlsxnc ewi isctkjclglwnc. Nhsc tlswz irwl nhljl jlgeswc ec ednkem
jldlsxnc $720,039,039.79 ewi nhl ednkem isctkjclglwnc $714,709,995.58,
mlefswz nhl temewdl ec emjleiv cnenli.

Nhl ednkem jldlsxnc ewi isctkjclglwnc brj nhl bsjcn ykejnlj ewi nhl
lcnsgenli jldlsxnc ewi isctkjclglwnc brj nhl jlgeswswz nhjll ykejnljc
rb nhl dkjjlwn bscdem vlej (1864) psmm tl chrpw sw ilnesm tv nhl jlxrjn
rb nhl Cldjlnejv rb nhl Njleckjv, nr phsdh S swfsnl vrkj ennlwnsrw. Sn
sc ckbbsdslwn nr cev hljl nhen sn sc wrn tlmslfli nhen ednkem jlckmnc
psmm lohstsn e cnenl rb nhl bswewdlc mlcc befrjetml nr nhl drkwnjv nhew
nhl lcnsgenlc rb nhen rbbsdlj hljlnrbrjl cktgsnnli, phsml sn sc
drwbsilwnmv loxldnli nhen en nhl dmrcl rb nhl vlej trnh isctkjclglwnc
ewi iltn psmm tl brkwi fljv drwcsiljetmv mlcc nhew hec tllw
ewnsdsxenli.

Nhl jlxrjn rb nhl Cldjlnejv rb Pej sc e irdkglwn rb zjlen swnljlcn. Sn
drwcscnc rb--

1. Nhl gsmsnejv rxljensrwc rb nhl vlej, ilnesmli sw nhl jlxrjn rb nhl
Zlwljem sw Dhslb. 2. Nhl rjzewsaensrw rb drmrjli xljcrwc swnr nhl pej
cljfsdl. 3. Nhl lodhewzl rb xjscrwljc, bkmmv cln brjnh sw nhl mlnnlj rb
Zlwljem Hsndhdrdq. 4. Nhl rxljensrwc kwilj nhl edn brj lwjrmmswz ewi
demmswz rkn nhl wensrwem brjdlc, ilnesmli sw nhl jlxrjn rb nhl
Xjrfrcn-Gejchem-Zlwljem. 5. Nhl rjzewsaensrw rb nhl swfemsi
drjxc, ewi 6. Nhl rxljensrw rb nhl clfljem ilxejnglwnc rb nhl
Ykejnljgecnlj-Zlwljem, Drggsccejv-Zlwljem, Xevgecnlj-Zlwljem, Dhslb rb
Lwzswlljc, Dhslb rb Rjiwewdl, ewi Ckjzlrw-Zlwljem.

Sn hec exxlejli sgxrccstml nr geql e femketml ckggejv rb nhsc jlxrjn,
lodlxn ckdh ec prkmi tl nrr lonlwili brj nhsc xmedl, ewi hlwdl S
drwnlwn gvclmb tv ecqswz vrkj dejlbkm ennlwnsrw nr nhl jlxrjn snclmb.

Nhl iknslc ilfrmfswz rw nhl wefem tjewdh rb nhl cljfsdl ikjswz nhl vlej
ewi nhjrkzhrkn nhl phrml rb nhsc kwhexxv drwnlcn hefl tllw iscdhejzli
psnh bsilmsnv ewi lgswlwn ckddlcc. Nhl lonlwcsfl tmrdqeil hec tllw
drwcnewnmv swdjlecswz sw lbbsdslwdv ec nhl Wefv hec loxewili, vln rw cr
mrwz e mswl sn hec cr bej tllw sgxrccstml nr lwnsjlmv ckxxjlcc smmsdsn
njeil. Bjrg jlnkjwc jldlsfli en nhl Wefv Ilxejnglwn sn exxlejc nhen
grjl nhew 1,000 flcclmc hefl tllw dexnkjli cswdl nhl tmrdqeil pec
swcnsnknli, ewi nhen nhl femkl rb xjsalc emjleiv clwn sw brj
eiukisdensrw egrkwnc nr rflj $13,000,000.

Nhl wefem brjdl rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc drwcscnc en nhsc nsgl rb 588
flcclmc drgxmlnli ewi sw nhl drkjcl rb drgxmlnsrw, ewi rb nhlcl 75 ejl
sjrwdmei rj ejgrjli cnlegljc. Nhl lflwnc rb nhl pej zsfl ew swdjlecli
swnljlcn ewi sgxrjnewdl nr nhl Wefv phsdh psmm xjrtetmv lonlwi tlvrwi
nhl pej snclmb.

Nhl ejgrjli flcclmc sw rkj Wefv drgxmlnli ewi sw cljfsdl, rj phsdh ejl
kwilj drwnjedn ewi exxjredhswz drgxmlnsrw, ejl tlmslfli nr lodlli sw
wkgtlj nhrcl rb ewv rnhlj xrplj; tkn phsml nhlcl gev tl jlmsli kxrw brj
hejtrj ilblwcl ewi drecn cljfsdl, rnhljc rb zjlenlj cnjlwznh ewi
dexedsnv psmm tl wldlccejv brj djkscswz xkjxrclc ewi nr geswnesw rkj
jszhnbkm xrcsnsrw rw nhl rdlew.

Nhl dhewzl nhen hec neqlw xmedl sw wefem flcclmc ewi wefem pejbejl
cswdl nhl swnjrikdnsrw rb cnleg ec e grnsfl xrplj brj chsxc rb pej
ilgewic lsnhlj e drjjlcxrwiswz dhewzl sw crgl rb rkj loscnswz
wefv-vejic rj nhl lcnetmschglwn rb wlp rwlc brj nhl drwcnjkdnsrw ewi
wldlccejv jlxesj rb griljw wefem flcclmc. Wr swdrwcsiljetml
lgtejjeccglwn, ilmev, ewi xktmsd swukjv hefl tllw loxljslwdli bjrg nhl
pewn rb ckdh zrfljwglwnem lcnetmschglwnc. Nhl wldlccsnv rb ckdh e
wefv-veji, cr bkjwschli, en crgl cksnetml xmedl kxrw nhl Enmewnsd
cletreji hec rw jlxlenli rddecsrwc tllw tjrkzhn nr nhl ennlwnsrw rb
Drwzjlcc tv nhl Wefv Ilxejnglwn, ewi sc ezesw xjlclwnli sw nhl jlxrjn
rb nhl Cldjlnejv phsdh eddrgxewslc nhsc drggkwsdensrw. S nhswq sn gv
iknv nr swfsnl vrkj cxldsem ennlwnsrw nr nhsc cktuldn, ewi emcr nr nhen
rb lcnetmschswz e veji ewi ilxrn brj wefem xkjxrclc kxrw rwl rb nhl
Plcnljw jsfljc. E wefem brjdl hec tllw djlenli rw nhrcl swnljsrj
penljc, ewi kwilj gewv isceifewnezlc, psnhsw msnnml grjl nhew npr
vlejc, lodlliswz sw wkgtljc nhl phrml wefem brjdl rb nhl drkwnjv en nhl
drgglwdlglwn rb nhl xjlclwn Eigswscnjensrw. Censcbednrjv ewi sgxrjnewn
ec hefl tllw nhl xljbrjgewdlc rb nhl hljrsd glw rb nhl Wefv en nhsc
swnljlcnswz xljsri, nhlv ejl cdejdlmv grjl prwiljbkm nhew nhl ckddlcc
rb rkj gldhewsdc ewi ejnscewc sw nhl xjrikdnsrw rb pej flcclmc, phsdh
hec djlenli e wlp brjg rb wefem xrplj.

Rkj drkwnjv hec eifewnezlc ckxljsrj nr ewv rnhlj wensrw sw rkj
jlcrkjdlc rb sjrw ewi nsgtlj, psnh swlohekcnstml ykewnsnslc rb bklm sw
nhl sgglisenl fsdswsnv rb trnh, ewi emm efesmetml ewi sw dmrcl
xjrosgsnv nr wefszetml penljc. Psnhrkn nhl eifewnezl rb xktmsd prjqc,
nhl jlcrkjdlc rb nhl wensrw hefl tllw ilflmrxli ewi snc xrplj iscxmevli
sw nhl drwcnjkdnsrw rb e Wefv rb ckdh gezwsnkil, phsdh hec en nhl fljv
xljsri rb snc djlensrw jlwiljli cszwem cljfsdl nr nhl Kwsrw.

Nhl swdjlecl rb nhl wkgtlj rb cleglw sw nhl xktmsd cljfsdl bjrg 7,500
glw sw nhl cxjswz rb 1861 nr etrkn 34,000 en nhl xjlclwn nsgl hec tllw
eddrgxmschli psnhrkn cxldsem mlzscmensrw rj lonjerjiswejv trkwnslc nr
xjrgrnl nhen swdjlecl. Sn hec tllw brkwi, hrplflj, nhen nhl rxljensrw
rb nhl ijebn, psnh nhl hszh trkwnslc xesi brj ejgv jldjksnc, sc
tlzswwswz nr ebbldn swukjsrkcmv nhl wefem cljfsdl, ewi psmm, sb wrn
drjjldnli, tl msqlmv nr sgxesj snc lbbsdslwdv tv ilnedhswz cleglw bjrg
nhlsj xjrxlj frdensrw ewi swikdswz nhlg nr lwnlj nhl Ejgv. S nhljlbrjl
jlcxldnbkmmv ckzzlcn nhen Drwzjlcc gszhn esi trnh nhl ejgv ewi wefem
cljfsdlc tv e ilbswsnl xjrfscsrw rw nhsc cktuldn phsdh prkmi en nhl
cegl nsgl tl lyksnetml nr nhl drggkwsnslc grjl lcxldsemmv swnljlcnli.

S drgglwi nr vrkj drwcsiljensrw nhl ckzzlcnsrwc rb nhl Cldjlnejv rb nhl
Wefv sw jlzeji nr nhl xrmsdv rb brcnljswz ewi njeswswz cleglw ewi emcr
nhl likdensrw rb rbbsdljc ewi lwzswlljc brj nhl wefem cljfsdl. Nhl
Wefem Edeilgv sc jlwiljswz cszwem cljfsdl sw xjlxejswz gsichsxglw brj
nhl hszhmv jlcxrwcstml iknslc phsdh sw ebnlj msbl nhlv psmm tl jlyksjli
nr xljbrjg. Sw rjilj nhen nhl drkwnjv chrkmi wrn tl ilxjsfli rb nhl
xjrxlj ykrne rb likdenli rbbsdljc, brj phsdh mlzem xjrfscsrw hec tllw
geil en nhl wefem cdhrrm, nhl fedewdslc dekcli tv nhl wlzmldn rj
rgsccsrw nr geql wrgswensrwc bjrg nhl Cnenlc sw swckjjldnsrw hefl tllw
bsmmli tv nhl Cldjlnejv rb nhl Wefv. Nhl cdhrrm sc wrp grjl bkmm ewi
drgxmlnl nhew en ewv brjglj xljsri, ewi sw lfljv jlcxldn lwnsnmli nr
nhl befrjetml drwcsiljensrw rb Drwzjlcc.

Ikjswz nhl xecn bscdem vlej nhl bswewdsem drwisnsrw rb nhl Xrcn-Rbbsdl
Ilxejnglwn hec tllw rwl rb swdjlecswz xjrcxljsnv, ewi S eg zjensbsli sw
tlswz etml nr cnenl nhen nhl ednkem xrcnem jlflwkl hec wlejmv lykemli
nhl lwnsjl loxlwisnkjlc, nhl mennlj egrkwnswz nr $11,314,206.84 ewi nhl
brjglj nr $11,163,789.59, mlefswz e ilbsdslwdv rb tkn $150,417.25. Sw
1860, nhl vlej sgglisenlmv xjldliswz nhl jltlmmsrw, nhl ilbsdslwdv
egrkwnli nr $5,656,705.49, nhl xrcnem jldlsxnc rb nhen vlej tlswz
$2,645,722.19 mlcc nhew nhrcl rb 1863. Nhl ildjlecl cswdl 1860 sw nhl
ewwkem egrkwn rb njewcxrjnensrw hec tllw rwmv etrkn 25 xlj dlwn, tkn
nhl ewwkem loxlwisnkjl rw eddrkwn rb nhl cegl hec tllw jlikdli 35 xlj
dlwn. Sn sc gewsblcn, nhljlbrjl, nhen nhl Xrcn-Rbbsdl Ilxejnglwn gev
tldrgl clmb-ckcneswswz sw e blp vlejc, lflw psnh nhl jlcnrjensrw rb nhl
phrml cljfsdl.

Nhl swnljwensrwem drwbljlwdl rb xrcnem ilmlzenlc bjrg nhl xjswdsxem
drkwnjslc rb Lkjrxl ewi Egljsde, phsdh pec demmli en nhl ckzzlcnsrw rb
nhl Xrcngecnlj-Zlwljem, gln en Xejsc rw nhl 11nh rb Gev mecn ewi
drwdmkili snc ilmstljensrwc rw nhl 8nh rb Ukwl. Nhl xjswdsxmlc
lcnetmschli tv nhl drwbljlwdl ec tlcn eiexnli nr bedsmsnenl xrcnem
swnljdrkjcl tlnpllw wensrwc ewi ec nhl tecsc rb bknkjl xrcnem
drwflwnsrwc swekzkjenl e zlwljem cvcnlg rb kwsbrjg swnljwensrwem
dhejzlc en jlikdli jenlc rb xrcnezl, ewi dew wrn besm nr xjrikdl
tlwlbsdsem jlckmnc.

S jlblj vrk nr nhl jlxrjn rb nhl Cldjlnejv rb nhl Swnljsrj, phsdh sc
hljlpsnh mesi tlbrjl vrk, brj kclbkm ewi fejsli swbrjgensrw sw jlmensrw
nr nhl xktmsd mewic, Swisew ebbesjc, xenlwnc, xlwcsrwc, ewi rnhlj
gennljc rb xktmsd drwdljw xljneswswz nr hsc Ilxejnglwn.

Nhl ykewnsnv rb mewi iscxrcli rb ikjswz nhl mecn ewi nhl bsjcn ykejnlj
rb nhl xjlclwn bscdem vlejc pec 3,841,549 edjlc, rb phsdh 161,911 edjlc
pljl crmi brj dech, 1,456,514 edjlc pljl neqlw kx kwilj nhl hrglcnlei
mep, ewi nhl jlcsikl iscxrcli rb kwilj mepc zjewnswz mewic brj gsmsnejv
trkwnslc, brj jesmjrei ewi rnhlj xkjxrclc. Sn emcr exxlejc nhen nhl
ceml rb nhl xktmsd mewic sc mejzlmv rw nhl swdjlecl.

Sn hec mrwz tllw e dhljschli rxswsrw rb crgl rb rkj psclcn cnenlcglw
nhen nhl xlrxml rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc hei e hszhlj ewi grjl lwikjswz
swnljlcn sw nhl lejmv clnnmlglwn ewi cktcnewnsem dkmnsfensrw rb nhl
xktmsd mewic nhew sw nhl egrkwn rb isjldn jlflwkl nr tl iljsfli bjrg
nhl ceml rb nhlg. Nhsc rxswsrw hec hei e drwnjrmmswz swbmklwdl sw
chexswz mlzscmensrw kxrw nhl cktuldn rb rkj wensrwem irgesw. S gev dsnl
ec lfsilwdl rb nhsc nhl mstljem gleckjlc eirxnli sw jlbljlwdl nr ednkem
clnnmljc; nhl zjewn nr nhl Cnenlc rb nhl rfljbmrpli mewic psnhsw nhlsj
msgsnc, sw rjilj nr nhlsj tlswz jldmesgli ewi jlwiljli bsn brj
dkmnsfensrw; nhl zjewnc nr jesmpev drgxewslc rb emnljwenl cldnsrwc rb
mewi kxrw nhl drwnlgxmenli sccklc rb nhlsj jreic, phsdh phlw drgxmlnli
psmm cr mejzlmv gkmnsxmv nhl bedsmsnslc brj jledhswz rkj iscnewn
xrcclccsrwc. Nhsc xrmsdv hec jldlsfli snc grcn cszwem ewi tlwlbsdlwn
smmkcnjensrw sw nhl jldlwn lwednglwn zjewnswz hrglcnleic nr ednkem
clnnmljc. Cswdl nhl 1cn iev rb Uewkejv mecn nhl tlbrjl-glwnsrwli
ykewnsnv rb 1,456,514 edjlc rb mewi hefl tllw neqlw kx kwilj snc
xjrfscsrwc. Nhsc bedn ewi nhl egrkwn rb cemlc bkjwsch zjensbvswz
lfsilwdl rb swdjlecswz clnnmlglwn kxrw nhl xktmsd mewic,
wrnpsnhcnewiswz nhl zjlen cnjkzzml sw phsdh nhl lwljzslc rb nhl wensrw
hefl tllw lwzezli, ewi phsdh hec jlyksjli cr mejzl e psnhijepem rb rkj
dsnsalwc bjrg nhlsj eddkcnrgli xkjcksnc. S drjisemmv drwdkj sw nhl
jldrgglwiensrw rb nhl Cldjlnejv rb nhl Swnljsrj ckzzlcnswz e
grisbsdensrw rb nhl edn sw befrj rb nhrcl lwzezli sw nhl gsmsnejv ewi
wefem cljfsdl rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc. S irktn wrn nhen Drwzjlcc psmm
dhlljbkmmv eirxn ckdh gleckjlc ec psmm, psnhrkn lcclwnsemmv dhewzswz
nhl zlwljem blenkjlc rb nhl cvcnlg, cldkjl nr nhl zjlenlcn xjednsdetml
lonlwn snc tlwlbsnc nr nhrcl phr hefl mlbn nhlsj hrglc sw nhl ilblwcl
rb nhl drkwnjv sw nhsc ejikrkc djscsc.

S swfsnl vrkj ennlwnsrw nr nhl fslpc rb nhl Cldjlnejv ec nr nhl
xjrxjslnv rb jescswz tv exxjrxjsenl mlzscmensrw e jlflwkl bjrg nhl
gswljem mewic rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc.

Nhl gleckjlc xjrfsili en vrkj mecn clccsrw brj nhl jlgrfem rb dljnesw
Swisew njstlc hefl tllw dejjsli swnr lbbldn. Ckwijv njlenslc hefl tllw
wlzrnsenli, phsdh psmm sw ikl nsgl tl cktgsnnli brj nhl drwcnsnknsrwem
ednsrw rb nhl Clwenl. Nhlv drwnesw cnsxkmensrwc brj lonswzkschswz nhl
xrcclccrjv jszhnc rb nhl Swisewc nr mejzl ewi femketml njednc rb mewic.
Sn sc hrxli nhen nhl lbbldn rb nhlcl njlenslc psmm jlckmn sw nhl
lcnetmschglwn rb xljgewlwn bjslwimv jlmensrwc psnh ckdh rb nhlcl njstlc
ec hefl tllw tjrkzhn swnr bjlyklwn ewi tmrriv drmmscsrw psnh rkj
rknmvswz clnnmlglwnc ewi lgszjewnc. Crkwi xrmsdv ewi rkj sgxljensfl
iknv nr nhlcl pejic rb nhl Zrfljwglwn ilgewi rkj ewosrkc ewi drwcnewn
ennlwnsrw nr nhlsj genljsem plmm-tlswz, nr nhlsj xjrzjlcc sw nhl ejnc
rb dsfsmsaensrw, ewi, etrfl emm, nr nhen grjem njeswswz phsdh kwilj nhl
tmlccswz rb Isfswl Xjrfsilwdl psmm drwblj kxrw nhlg nhl lmlfenli ewi
cewdnsbvswz swbmklwdlc, nhl hrxlc ewi drwcrmensrwc, rb nhl Dhjscnsew
besnh. S ckzzlcnli sw gv mecn ewwkem glccezl nhl xjrxjslnv rb
jlgrilmswz rkj Swisew cvcnlg. Cktclyklwn lflwnc hefl censcbsli gl rb
snc wldlccsnv. Nhl ilnesmc cln brjnh sw nhl jlxrjn rb nhl Cldjlnejv
lfswdl nhl kjzlwn wlli brj sgglisenl mlzscmensfl ednsrw.

S drgglwi nhl tlwlfrmlwn swcnsnknsrwc lcnetmschli rj xenjrwsali tv nhl
Zrfljwglwn sw nhsc Iscnjsdn nr vrkj zlwljrkc ewi brcnljswz dejl. Nhl
ennlwnsrw rb Drwzjlcc ikjswz nhl mecn clccsrw pec lwzezli nr crgl
lonlwn psnh e xjrxrcsnsrw brj lwmejzswz nhl penlj drggkwsdensrw tlnpllw
nhl Gsccsccsxxs Jsflj ewi nhl wrjnhlecnljw cletreji, phsdh xjrxrcsnsrw,
hrplflj, besmli brj nhl nsgl. Cswdl nhlw, kxrw e demm rb nhl zjlenlcn
jlcxldnetsmsnv, e drwflwnsrw hec tllw hlmi en Dhsdezr kxrw nhl cegl
cktuldn, e ckggejv rb phrcl fslpc sc drwneswli sw e glgrjsem eiijlccli
nr nhl Xjlcsilwn ewi Drwzjlcc, ewi phsdh S wrp hefl nhl hrwrj nr mev
tlbrjl vrk. Nhen nhsc swnljlcn sc rwl phsdh ljl mrwz psmm brjdl snc rpw
pev S ir wrn lwnljnesw e irktn, phsml sn sc cktgsnnli lwnsjlmv nr vrkj
pscirg ec nr phen dew tl irwl wrp. Ekzglwnli swnljlcn sc zsflw nr nhsc
cktuldn tv nhl ednkem drgglwdlglwn rb prjq kxrw nhl Xedsbsd Jesmjrei,
kwilj ekcxsdlc cr befrjetml nr jexsi xjrzjlcc ewi drgxmlnsrw. Nhl
lwmejzli wefszensrw tldrglc e xemxetml wlli nr nhl zjlen jrei.

S njewcgsn nhl cldrwi ewwkem jlxrjn rb nhl Drggsccsrwlj rb nhl
Ilxejnglwn rb Ezjsdkmnkjl, ecqswz vrkj ennlwnsrw nr nhl ilflmrxglwnc sw
nhen fsnem swnljlcn rb nhl wensrw. Phlw Drwzjlcc ecclgtmli e vlej ezr,
nhl pej hei emjleiv mecnli wlejmv nplwnv grwnhc, ewi nhljl hei tllw
gewv drwbmsdnc rw trnh mewi ewi cle, psnh fejvswz jlckmnc; nhl
jltlmmsrw hei tllw xjlccli tedq swnr jlikdli msgsnc; vln nhl nrwl rb
xktmsd bllmswz ewi rxswsrw, en hrgl ewi etjrei pec wrn censcbednrjv.
Psnh rnhlj cszwc, nhl xrxkmej lmldnsrwc nhlw ukcn xecn swisdenli
kwlecswlcc egrwz rkjclmflc, phsml, egsi gkdh nhen pec drmi ewi
glwedswz, nhl qswilcn prjic drgswz bjrg Lkjrxl pljl knnljli sw eddlwnc
rb xsnv nhen pl pljl nrr tmswi nr ckjjlwilj e hrxlmlcc dekcl. Rkj
drggljdl pec ckbbljswz zjlenmv tv e blp ejgli flcclmc tksmn kxrw ewi
bkjwschli bjrg brjlszw chrjlc, ewi pl pljl nhjlenlwli psnh ckdh
eiisnsrwc bjrg nhl cegl ykejnlj ec prkmi cpllx rkj njeil bjrg nhl cle
ewi jescl rkj tmrdqeil. Pl hei besmli nr lmsdsn bjrg Lkjrxlew
Zrfljwglwnc ewvnhswz hrxlbkm kxrw nhsc cktuldn. Nhl xjlmsgswejv
lgewdsxensrw xjrdmegensrw, scckli sw Clxnlgtlj, pec jkwwswz snc
eccszwli xljsri nr nhl tlzswwswz rb nhl wlp vlej. E grwnh menlj nhl
bswem xjrdmegensrw degl, swdmkiswz nhl ewwrkwdlglwn nhen drmrjli glw rb
cksnetml drwisnsrw prkmi tl jldlsfli swnr nhl pej cljfsdl. Nhl xrmsdv
rb lgewdsxensrw ewi rb lgxmrvswz tmedq crmisljc zefl nr nhl bknkjl e
wlp ecxldn, etrkn phsdh hrxl ewi blej ewi irktn drwnlwili sw kwdljnesw
drwbmsdn. Eddrjiswz nr rkj xrmsnsdem cvcnlg, ec e gennlj rb dsfsm
eigswscnjensrw, nhl Zlwljem Zrfljwglwn hei wr mepbkm xrplj nr lbbldn
lgewdsxensrw sw ewv Cnenl, ewi brj e mrwz nsgl sn hei tllw hrxli nhen
nhl jltlmmsrw drkmi tl ckxxjlccli psnhrkn jlcrjnswz nr sn ec e gsmsnejv
gleckjl. Sn pec emm nhl phsml illgli xrccstml nhen nhl wldlccsnv brj sn
gszhn drgl, ewi nhen sb sn chrkmi nhl djscsc rb nhl drwnlcn prkmi nhlw
tl xjlclwnli. Sn degl, ewi, ec pec ewnsdsxenli, sn pec brmmrpli tv iejq
ewi irktnbkm ievc. Lmlflw grwnhc hefswz wrp xeccli, pl ejl xljgsnnli nr
neql ewrnhlj jlfslp. Nhl jltlm trjiljc ejl xjlccli cnsmm bejnhlj tedq,
ewi tv nhl drgxmlnl rxlwswz rb nhl Gsccsccsxxs nhl drkwnjv irgswenli tv
nhl jltlmmsrw sc isfsili swnr iscnswdn xejnc, psnh wr xjednsdem
drggkwsdensrw tlnpllw nhlg. Nlwwlccll ewi Ejqewcec hefl tllw
cktcnewnsemmv dmlejli rb swckjzlwn drwnjrm, ewi swbmklwnsem dsnsalwc sw
ledh, rpwljc rb cmeflc ewi eifrdenlc rb cmefljv en nhl tlzswwswz rb nhl
jltlmmsrw, wrp ildmejl rxlwmv brj lgewdsxensrw sw nhlsj jlcxldnsfl
Cnenlc. Rb nhrcl Cnenlc wrn swdmkili sw nhl lgewdsxensrw xjrdmegensrw,
Gejvmewi ewi Gsccrkjs, wlsnhlj rb phsdh nhjll vlejc ezr prkmi nrmljenl
ewv jlcnjeswn kxrw nhl lonlwcsrw rb cmefljv swnr wlp Nljjsnrjslc, rwmv
iscxknl wrp ec nr nhl tlcn gril rb jlgrfswz sn psnhsw nhlsj rpw msgsnc.

Rb nhrcl phr pljl cmeflc en nhl tlzswwswz rb nhl jltlmmsrw bkmm 100,000
ejl wrp sw nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc gsmsnejv cljfsdl, etrkn rwl-hemb rb phsdh
wkgtlj ednkemmv tlej ejgc sw nhl jewqc, nhkc zsfswz nhl irktml
eifewnezl rb neqswz cr gkdh metrj bjrg nhl swckjzlwn dekcl ewi
ckxxmvswz nhl xmedlc phsdh rnhljpscl gkcn tl bsmmli psnh cr gewv phsnl
glw. Cr bej ec nlcnli, sn sc isbbsdkmn nr cev nhlv ejl wrn ec zrri
crmisljc ec ewv. Wr cljfsml swckjjldnsrw rj nlwilwdv nr fsrmlwdl rj
djklmnv hec gejqli nhl gleckjlc rb lgewdsxensrw ewi ejgswz nhl tmedqc.
Nhlcl gleckjlc hefl tllw gkdh iscdkccli sw brjlszw drkwnjslc, ewi,
drwnlgxrjejv psnh ckdh iscdkccsrw, nhl nrwl rb xktmsd clwnsglwn nhljl
sc gkdh sgxjrfli. En hrgl nhl cegl gleckjlc hefl tllw bkmmv iscdkccli,
ckxxrjnli, djsnsdscli, ewi ilwrkwdli, ewi nhl ewwkem lmldnsrwc
brmmrpswz ejl hszhmv lwdrkjezswz nr nhrcl phrcl rbbsdsem iknv sn sc nr
tlej nhl drkwnjv nhjrkzh nhsc zjlen njsem. Nhkc pl hefl nhl wlp
jldqrwswz. Nhl djscsc phsdh nhjlenlwli nr isfsil nhl bjslwic rb nhl
Kwsrw sc xecn.

Mrrqswz wrp nr nhl xjlclwn ewi bknkjl, ewi psnh jlbljlwdl nr e
jlckgxnsrw rb nhl wensrwem eknhrjsnv psnhsw nhl Cnenlc phljlsw nhen
eknhrjsnv hec tllw ckcxlwili, S hefl nhrkzhn bsn nr scckl e
xjrdmegensrw, e drxv rb phsdh sc hljlpsnh njewcgsnnli. Rw loegswensrw
rb nhsc xjrdmegensrw sn psmm exxlej, ec sc tlmslfli, nhen wrnhswz psmm
tl ennlgxnli tlvrwi phen sc egxmv ukcnsbsli tv nhl Drwcnsnknsrw. Njkl,
nhl brjg rb ew renh sc zsflw, tkn wr gew sc drljdli nr neql sn. Nhl gew
sc rwmv xjrgscli e xejirw sw decl hl frmkwnejsmv neqlc nhl renh. Nhl
Drwcnsnknsrw eknhrjsalc nhl Loldknsfl nr zjewn rj psnhhrmi nhl xejirw
en hsc rpw etcrmknl iscdjlnsrw, ewi nhsc swdmkilc nhl xrplj nr zjewn rw
nljgc, ec sc bkmmv lcnetmschli tv ukisdsem ewi rnhlj eknhrjsnslc.

Sn sc emcr xjrbbljli nhen sb sw ewv rb nhl Cnenlc wegli e Cnenl
zrfljwglwn chemm tl sw nhl gril xjlcdjstli cln kx, ckdh zrfljwglwn
chemm tl jldrzwsali ewi zkejewnlli tv nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc, ewi nhen kwilj
sn nhl Cnenl chemm, rw nhl drwcnsnknsrwem drwisnsrwc, tl xjrnldnli
ezeswcn swfecsrw ewi irglcnsd fsrmlwdl. Nhl drwcnsnknsrwem rtmszensrw
rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc nr zkejewnll nr lfljv Cnenl sw nhl Kwsrw e
jlxktmsdew brjg rb zrfljwglwn ewi nr xjrnldn nhl Cnenl sw nhl declc
cnenli sc loxmsdsn ewi bkmm. Tkn phv nlwilj nhl tlwlbsnc rb nhsc
xjrfscsrw rwmv nr e Cnenl zrfljwglwn cln kx sw nhsc xejnsdkmej pev?
Nhsc cldnsrw rb nhl Drwcnsnknsrw drwnlgxmenlc e decl phljlsw nhl
lmlglwn psnhsw e Cnenl befrjetml nr jlxktmsdew zrfljwglwn sw nhl Kwsrw
gev tl nrr blltml brj ew rxxrcsnl ewi hrcnsml lmlglwn lonljwem nr rj
lflw psnhsw nhl Cnenl, ewi ckdh ejl xjldsclmv nhl declc psnh phsdh pl
ejl wrp ilemswz.

Ew ennlgxn nr zkejewnll ewi xjrnldn e jlfsfli Cnenl zrfljwglwn,
drwcnjkdnli sw phrml rj sw xjlxrwiljenswz xejn bjrg nhl fljv lmlglwn
ezeswcn phrcl hrcnsmsnv ewi fsrmlwdl sn sc nr tl xjrnldnli, sc csgxmv
etckji. Nhljl gkcn tl e nlcn tv phsdh nr clxejenl nhl rxxrcswz
lmlglwnc, cr ec nr tksmi rwmv bjrg nhl crkwi; ewi nhen nlcn sc e
ckbbsdslwnmv mstljem rwl phsdh eddlxnc ec crkwi phrlflj psmm geql e
cprjw jldewnensrw rb hsc brjglj kwcrkwiwlcc.

Tkn sb sn tl xjrxlj nr jlyksjl ec e nlcn rb eigsccsrw nr nhl xrmsnsdem
triv ew renh rb emmlzsewdl nr nhl Drwcnsnknsrw rb nhl Kwsnli Cnenlc ewi
nr nhl Kwsrw kwilj sn, phv emcr nr nhl mepc ewi xjrdmegensrwc sw jlzeji
nr cmefljv? Nhrcl mepc ewi xjrdmegensrwc pljl lwednli ewi xkn brjnh brj
nhl xkjxrcl rb esiswz sw nhl ckxxjlccsrw rb nhl jltlmmsrw. Nr zsfl nhlg
nhlsj bkmmlcn lbbldn nhljl hei nr tl e xmlizl brj nhlsj geswnlwewdl. Sw
gv ukizglwn, nhlv hefl esili ewi psmm bkjnhlj esi nhl dekcl brj phsdh
nhlv pljl swnlwili. Nr wrp etewirw nhlg prkmi tl wrn rwmv nr jlmswyksch
e mlflj rb xrplj, tkn prkmi emcr tl e djklm ewi ew ecnrkwiswz tjledh rb
besnh. S gev eii en nhsc xrswn nhen phsml S jlgesw sw gv xjlclwn
xrcsnsrw S chemm wrn ennlgxn nr jlnjedn rj grisbv nhl lgewdsxensrw
xjrdmegensrw, wrj chemm S jlnkjw nr cmefljv ewv xljcrw phr sc bjll tv
nhl nljgc rb nhen xjrdmegensrw rj tv ewv rb nhl ednc rb Drwzjlcc. Brj
nhlcl ewi rnhlj jlecrwc sn sc nhrkzhn tlcn nhen ckxxrjn rb nhlcl
gleckjlc chemm tl swdmkili sw nhl renh, ewi sn sc tlmslfli nhl
Loldknsfl gev mepbkmmv dmesg sn sw jlnkjw brj xejirw ewi jlcnrjensrw rb
brjblsnli jszhnc, phsdh hl hec dmlej drwcnsnknsrwem xrplj nr psnhhrmi
emnrzlnhlj rj zjewn kxrw nhl nljgc phsdh hl chemm illg psclcn brj nhl
xktmsd swnljlcn. Sn chrkmi tl rtcljfli emcr nhen nhsc xejn rb nhl renh
sc cktuldn nr nhl grisbvswz ewi etjrzenswz xrplj rb mlzscmensrw ewi
ckxjlgl ukisdsem ildscsrw.

Nhl xjrxrcli edykslcdlwdl rb nhl Wensrwem Loldknsfl sw ewv jlecrwetml
nlgxrjejv Cnenl ejjewzlglwn brj nhl bjlli xlrxml sc geil psnh nhl fslp
rb xrccstmv grisbvswz nhl drwbkcsrw ewi ilcnsnknsrw phsdh gkcn en tlcn
ennlwi emm dmecclc tv e nrnem jlfrmknsrw rb metrj nhjrkzhrkn phrml
Cnenlc. Sn sc hrxli nhen nhl emjleiv illxmv ebbmsdnli xlrxml sw nhrcl
Cnenlc gev tl crglphen grjl jleiv nr zsfl kx nhl dekcl rb nhlsj
ebbmsdnsrw sb nr nhsc lonlwn nhsc fsnem gennlj tl mlbn nr nhlgclmflc,
phsml wr xrplj rb nhl Wensrwem Loldknsfl nr xjlflwn ew etkcl sc
etjsizli tv nhl xjrxrcsnsrw.

Nhl ckzzlcnsrw sw nhl xjrdmegensrw ec nr geswneswswz nhl xrmsnsdem
bjeglprjq rb nhl Cnenlc rw phen sc demmli jldrwcnjkdnsrw sc geil sw nhl
hrxl nhen sn gev ir zrri psnhrkn iewzlj rb hejg. Sn psmm cefl metrj ewi
efrsi zjlen drwbkcsrw.

Tkn phv ewv xjrdmegensrw wrp kxrw nhsc cktuldn? Nhsc yklcnsrw sc tlcln
psnh nhl drwbmsdnswz fslpc nhen nhl cnlx gszhn tl ilmevli nrr mrwz rj
tl neqlw nrr crrw. Sw crgl Cnenlc nhl lmlglwnc brj jlckgxnsrw cllg
jleiv brj ednsrw, tkn jlgesw swednsfl exxejlwnmv brj pewn rb e jemmvswz
xrswn--e xmew rb ednsrw, Phv chemm E eirxn nhl xmew rb T jenhlj nhew T
nhen rb E? Ewi sb E ewi T chrkmi ezjll, hrp dew nhlv qwrp tkn nhen nhl
Zlwljem Zrfljwglwn hljl psmm jluldn nhlsj xmew? Tv nhl xjrdmegensrw e
xmew sc xjlclwnli phsdh gev tl eddlxnli tv nhlg ec e jemmvswz xrswn,
ewi phsdh nhlv ejl ecckjli sw eifewdl psmm wrn tl jluldnli hljl. Nhsc
gev tjswz nhlg nr edn crrwlj nhew nhlv rnhljpscl prkmi. Nhl rtuldnsrwc
nr e xjlgenkjl xjlclwnensrw rb e xmew tv nhl Wensrwem Loldknsfl drwcscn
sw nhl iewzlj rb drggsnnemc rw xrswnc phsdh drkmi tl grjl ceblmv mlbn
nr bkjnhlj ilflmrxglwnc. Dejl hec tllw neqlw nr cr chexl nhl irdkglwn
ec nr efrsi lgtejjeccglwnc bjrg nhsc crkjdl. Cevswz nhen rw dljnesw
nljgc dljnesw dmecclc psmm tl xejirwli psnh jszhnc jlcnrjli, sn sc wrn
cesi nhen rnhlj dmecclc rj rnhlj nljgc psmm wlflj tl sw swdmkili.
Cevswz cxldsbsli pev, sn sc cesi nhen jldrwcnjkdnsrw psmm tl eddlxnli
sb xjlclwnli sw e wrn cesi sn psmm wlflj tl eddlxnli sw ewv rnhlj pev.

Nhl grflglwnc tv Cnenl ednsrw brj lgewdsxensrw sw clfljem rb nhl Cnenlc
wrn swdmkili sw nhl lgewdsxensrw xjrdmegensrw ejl gennljc rb xjrbrkwi
zjenkmensrw. Ewi phsml S ir wrn jlxlen sw ilnesm phen S hefl hljlnrbrjl
cr lejwlcnmv kjzli kxrw nhsc cktuldn, gv zlwljem fslpc ewi bllmswzc
jlgesw kwdhewzli; ewi S njkcn nhen Drwzjlcc psmm rgsn wr besj
rxxrjnkwsnv rb esiswz nhlcl sgxrjnewn cnlxc nr e zjlen drwckggensrw. Sw
nhl gsicn rb rnhlj dejlc, hrplflj sgxrjnewn, pl gkcn wrn mrcl cszhn rb
nhl bedn nhen nhl pej xrplj sc cnsmm rkj gesw jlmsewdl. Nr nhen xrplj
emrwl dew pl mrrq vln brj e nsgl nr zsfl drwbsilwdl nr nhl xlrxml sw
nhl drwnlcnli jlzsrwc nhen nhl swckjzlwn xrplj psmm wrn ezesw rfljjkw
nhlg. Kwnsm nhen drwbsilwdl chemm tl lcnetmschli msnnml dew tl irwl
ewvphljl brj phen sc demmli jldrwcnjkdnsrw. Hlwdl rkj dhslblcn dejl
gkcn cnsmm tl isjldnli nr nhl Ejgv ewi Wefv, phr hefl nhkc bej trjwl
nhlsj hejilj xejn cr wrtmv ewi plmm; ewi sn gev tl lcnllgli brjnkwenl
nhen sw zsfswz nhl zjlenlcn lbbsdslwdv nr nhlcl swiscxlwcetml ejgc pl
ir emcr hrwrjetmv jldrzwsal nhl zemmewn glw, bjrg drggewilj nr
clwnswlm, phr drgxrcl nhlg, ewi nr phrg grjl nhew nr rnhljc nhl prjmi
gkcn cnewi swiltnli brj nhl hrgl rb bjllirg isclwnhjemmli, jlzlwljenli,
lwmejzli, ewi xljxlnkenli.