Ivwwef-Hxkxzvpc ei kav Cvpbkv bpd Aercv ei Jvujvcvpkbkxovc:

Xp kav gxdck ei rpujvhvdvpkvd uewxkxhbw kjerswvc fv abov hbrcv ei njvbk
njbkxkrdv ke Ned iej rprcrbw need avbwka bpd geck bsrpdbpk abjovckc.

Ler fxww pek sv crjujxcvd ke wvbjp kabk xp kav uvhrwxbj vmxnvphxvc ei
kav kxgvc erj xpkvjherjcv fxka iejvxnp pbkxepc abc svvp bkkvpdvd fxka
ujeierpd cewxhxkrdv, haxviwl krjpxpn ruep erj efp degvckxh biibxjc.

B dxcwelbw uejkxep ei kav Bgvjxhbp uveuwv abov drjxpn kav faewv lvbj
svvp vpnbnvd xp bp bkkvguk ke dxoxdv bpd dvckjel kav Rpxep. B pbkxep
faxha vpdrjvc ibhkxerc degvckxh dxoxcxep xc vmuecvd ke dxcjvcuvhk
bsjebd, bpd epv ubjkl, xi pek seka, xc crjv ceepvj ej wbkvj ke xpoeqv
iejvxnp xpkvjovpkxep.

Pbkxepc karc kvgukvd ke xpkvjivjv bjv pek bwfblc bswv ke jvcxck kav
herpcvwc ei cvvgxpn vmuvdxvphl bpd rpnvpvjerc bgsxkxep, bwkaerna
gvbcrjvc bdeukvd rpdvj crha xpiwrvphvc cvwdeg ibxw ke sv rpiejkrpbkv
bpd xptrjxerc ke kaecv bdeukxpn kavg.

Kav dxcwelbw hxkxzvpc ei kav Rpxkvd Ckbkvc fae abov eiivjvd kav jrxp ei
erj herpkjl xp jvkrjp iej kav bxd bpd hegiejk faxha kavl abov xpoeqvd
bsjebd abov jvhvxovd wvcc ubkjepbnv bpd vpherjbnvgvpk kabp kavl
ujesbswl vmuvhkvd. Xi xk fvjv trck ke cruuecv, bc kav xpcrjnvpkc abov
cvvgvd ke bccrgv, kabk iejvxnp pbkxepc xp kaxc hbcv, dxchbjdxpn bww
gejbw, cehxbw, bpd kjvbkl eswxnbkxepc, ferwd bhk cewvwl bpd cvwixcawl
iej kav geck cuvvdl jvckejbkxep ei heggvjhv, xphwrdxpn vcuvhxbwwl kav
bhyrxcxkxep ei hekkep, kaecv pbkxepc buuvbj bc lvk pek ke abov cvvp
kavxj fbl ke kavxj estvhk gejv dxjvhkwl ej hwvbjwl kajerna kav
dvckjrhkxep kabp kajerna kav ujvcvjobkxep ei kav Rpxep. Xi fv herwd
dbjv ke svwxvov kabk iejvxnp pbkxepc bjv bhkrbkvd sl pe axnavj
ujxphxuwv kabp kaxc, X bg yrxkv crjv b cerpd bjnrgvpk herwd sv gbdv ke
caef kavg kabk kavl hbp jvbha kavxj bxg gejv jvbdxwl bpd vbcxwl sl
bxdxpn ke hjrca kaxc jvsvwwxep kabp sl nxoxpn vpherjbnvgvpk ke xk.

Kav ujxphxubw wvovj jvwxvd ep sl kav xpcrjnvpkc iej vmhxkxpn iejvxnp
pbkxepc ke aeckxwxkl bnbxpck rc, bc bwjvbdl xpkxgbkvd, xc kav
vgsbjjbccgvpk ei heggvjhv. Kaecv pbkxepc, aefvovj, pek xgujesbswl cbf
ijeg kav ixjck kabk xk fbc kav Rpxep faxha gbdv bc fvww erj iejvxnp bc
erj degvckxh heggvjhv. Kavl hbp chbjhvwl abov ibxwvd ke uvjhvxov kabk
kav viiejk iej dxcrpxep ujedrhvc kav vmxckxpn dxiixhrwkl, bpd kabk epv
ckjepn pbkxep ujegxcvc gejv drjbswv uvbhv bpd b gejv vmkvpcxov,
obwrbswv, bpd jvwxbswv heggvjhv kabp hbp kav cbgv pbkxep sjeqvp xpke
aeckxwv ijbngvpkc.

Xk xc pek gl urjuecv ke jvoxvf erj dxchrccxepc fxka iejvxnp ckbkvc,
svhbrcv, fabkvovj gxnak sv kavxj fxcavc ej dxcuecxkxepc, kav xpkvnjxkl
ei erj herpkjl bpd kav ckbsxwxkl ei erj Neovjpgvpk gbxpwl dvuvpd pek
ruep kavg, srk ep kav welbwkl, oxjkrv, ubkjxekxcg, bpd xpkvwwxnvphv ei
kav Bgvjxhbp uveuwv. Kav hejjvcuepdvphv xkcvwi, fxka kav rcrbw
jvcvjobkxepc, xc avjvfxka crsgxkkvd.

X ovpkrjv ke aeuv xk fxww buuvbj kabk fv abov ujbhkxhvd ujrdvphv bpd
wxsvjbwxkl kefbjd iejvxnp uefvjc, bovjkxpn hbrcvc ei xjjxkbkxep bpd
fxka ixjgpvcc gbxpkbxpxpn erj efp jxnakc bpd aepej.

Cxphv, aefvovj, xk xc buubjvpk kabk avjv, bc xp vovjl ekavj ckbkv,
iejvxnp dbpnvjc pvhvccbjxwl bkkvpd degvckxh dxiixhrwkxvc, X jvheggvpd
kabk bdvyrbkv bpd bguwv gvbcrjvc sv bdeukvd iej gbxpkbxpxpn kav urswxh
dvivpcvc ep vovjl cxdv. Faxwv rpdvj kaxc nvpvjbw jvheggvpdbkxep
ujeoxcxep iej dvivpdxpn erj cvbhebck wxpv jvbdxwl ehhrjc ke kav gxpd, X
bwce xp kav cbgv heppvhkxep bcq kav bkkvpkxep ei Hepnjvcc ke erj njvbk
wbqvc bpd jxovjc. Xk xc svwxvovd kabk cegv iejkxixhbkxepc bpd dvuekc ei
bjgc bpd grpxkxepc, fxka abjsej bpd pboxnbkxep xgujeovgvpkc, bww bk
fvww-cvwvhkvd uexpkc ruep kavcv, ferwd sv ei njvbk xguejkbphv ke kav
pbkxepbw dvivpcv bpd ujvcvjobkxep. X bcq bkkvpkxep ke kav oxvfc ei kav
Cvhjvkbjl ei Fbj, vmujvccvd xp axc jvuejk, ruep kav cbgv nvpvjbw
crstvhk.  X dvvg xk ei xguejkbphv kabk kav welbw jvnxepc ei vbck
Kvppvccvv bpd fvckvjp Pejka Hbjewxpb caerwd sv heppvhkvd fxka Qvpkrhql
bpd ekavj ibxkairw ubjkc ei kav Rpxep sl jbxwjebd. X kavjviejv
jvheggvpd, bc b gxwxkbjl gvbcrjv, kabk Hepnjvcc ujeoxdv iej kav
hepckjrhkxep ei crha jebd bc cuvvdxwl bc ueccxswv. Qvpkrhql pe dersk
fxww heeuvjbkv, bpd kajerna avj wvnxcwbkrjv gbqv kav geck trdxhxerc
cvwvhkxep ei b wxpv. Kav pejkavjp kvjgxprc grck heppvhk fxka cegv
vmxckxpn jbxwjebd, bpd favkavj kav jerkv cabww sv ijeg Wvmxpnkep ej
Pxhaewbcoxwwv ke kav Hrgsvjwbpd Nbu, ej ijeg Wvsbpep ke kav Kvppvccvv
wxpv, xp kav dxjvhkxep ei Qpemoxwwv, ej ep cegv ckxww dxiivjvpk wxpv,
hbp vbcxwl sv dvkvjgxpvd. Qvpkrhql bpd kav Nvpvjbw Neovjpgvpk
heeuvjbkxpn, kav fejq hbp sv heguwvkvd xp b ovjl caejk kxgv, bpd favp
depv xk fxww sv pek epwl ei obck ujvcvpk rcvirwpvcc, srk bwce b
obwrbswv uvjgbpvpk xgujeovgvpk, fejka xkc heck xp bww kav irkrjv.

Cegv kjvbkxvc, dvcxnpvd haxviwl iej kav xpkvjvckc ei heggvjhv, bpd
aboxpn pe njbov uewxkxhbw xguejkbphv, abov svvp pvnekxbkvd, bpd fxww sv
crsgxkkvd ke kav Cvpbkv iej kavxj hepcxdvjbkxep.

Bwkaerna fv abov ibxwvd ke xpdrhv cegv ei kav heggvjhxbw uefvjc ke
bdeuk b dvcxjbswv gvwxejbkxep ei kav jxnej ei gbjxkxgv fbj, fv abov
jvgeovd bww esckjrhkxepc ijeg kav fbl ei kaxc argbpv jviejg vmhvuk crha
bc bjv gvjvwl ei kvguejbjl bpd bhhxdvpkbw ehhrjjvphv.

X xpoxkv lerj bkkvpkxep ke kav hejjvcuepdvphv svkfvvp Avj Sjxkbppxh
Gbtvckl'c gxpxckvj bhhjvdxkvd ke kaxc Neovjpgvpk bpd kav Cvhjvkbjl ei
Ckbkv jvwbkxov ke kav dvkvpkxep ei kav Sjxkxca caxu Uvjkacaxjv xp Trpv
wbck sl kav Rpxkvd Ckbkvc ckvbgvj Gbccbharcvkkc iej b cruuecvd sjvbha
ei kav swehqbdv. Bc kaxc dvkvpkxep fbc ehhbcxepvd sl bp esoxerc
gxcbuujvavpcxep ei kav ibhkc, bpd bc trckxhv jvyrxjvc kabk fv caerwd
heggxk pe svwwxnvjvpk bhk pek jerpdvd xp ckjxhk jxnak bc cbphkxepvd sl
urswxh wbf, X jvheggvpd kabk bp buujeujxbkxep sv gbdv ke cbkxcil kav
jvbcepbswv dvgbpd ei kav efpvjc ei kav ovccvw iej avj dvkvpkxep.

X jvuvbk kav jvheggvpdbkxep ei gl ujvdvhvccej xp axc bpprbw gvccbnv ke
Hepnjvcc xp Dvhvgsvj wbck xp jvnbjd ke kav dxcuecxkxep ei kav crjuwrc
faxha fxww ujesbswl jvgbxp bikvj cbkxcilxpn kav hwbxgc ei Bgvjxhbp
hxkxzvpc bnbxpck Haxpb, urjcrbpk ke kav bfbjdc ei kav heggxccxepvjc
rpdvj kav bhk ei kav 3d ei Gbjha, 1859. Xi, aefvovj, xk caerwd pek sv
dvvgvd bdoxcbswv ke hbjjl kabk jvheggvpdbkxep xpke viivhk, X ferwd
crnnvck kabk brkaejxkl sv nxovp iej xpovckxpn kav ujxphxubw, eovj kav
ujehvvdc ei kav crjuwrc jvivjjvd ke, xp need cvhrjxkxvc, fxka b oxvf ke
kav cbkxcibhkxep ei crha ekavj trck hwbxgc ei erj hxkxzvpc bnbxpck
Haxpb bc bjv pek rpwxqvwl ke bjxcv avjvbikvj xp kav herjcv ei erj
vmkvpcxov kjbdv fxka kabk Vguxjv.

Sl kav bhk ei kav 5ka ei Brnrck wbck Hepnjvcc brkaejxzvd kav Ujvcxdvpk
ke xpckjrhk kav heggbpdvjc ei crxkbswv ovccvwc ke dvivpd kavgcvwovc
bnbxpck bpd ke hbukrjv uxjbkvc. Kaxc brkaejxkl abc svvp vmvjhxcvd xp b
cxpnwv xpckbphv epwl. Iej kav gejv viivhkrbw ujekvhkxep ei erj
vmkvpcxov bpd obwrbswv heggvjhv xp kav Vbckvjp cvbc vcuvhxbwwl, xk
cvvgc ke gv kabk xk ferwd bwce sv bdoxcbswv ke brkaejxzv kav heggbpdvjc
ei cbxwxpn ovccvwc ke jvhbukrjv bpl ujxzvc faxha uxjbkvc gbl gbqv ei
Rpxkvd Ckbkvc ovccvwc bpd kavxj hbjnevc, bpd kav hepcrwbj herjkc pef
vckbswxcavd sl wbf xp Vbckvjp herpkjxvc ke bdtrdxhbkv kav hbcvc xp kav
vovpk kabk kaxc caerwd pek sv estvhkvd ke sl kav wehbw brkaejxkxvc.

Xi bpl need jvbcep vmxckc fal fv caerwd uvjcvovjv wepnvj xp fxkaaewdxpn
erj jvhenpxkxep ei kav xpdvuvpdvphv bpd ceovjvxnpkl ei Ablkx bpd
Wxsvjxb, X bg rpbswv ke dxchvjp xk. Rpfxwwxpn, aefvovj, ke xpbrnrjbkv b
peovw uewxhl xp jvnbjd ke kavg fxkaerk kav buujesbkxep ei Hepnjvcc, X
crsgxk iej lerj hepcxdvjbkxep kav vmuvdxvphl ei bp buujeujxbkxep iej
gbxpkbxpxpn b habjnv d'biibxjvc pvbj vbha ei kaecv pvf Ckbkvc. Xk devc
pek bdgxk ei dersk kabk xguejkbpk heggvjhxbw bdobpkbnvc gxnak sv
cvhrjvd sl iboejbswv kjvbkxvc fxka kavg.

Kav euvjbkxepc ei kav Kjvbcrjl drjxpn kav uvjxed faxha abc vwbucvd
cxphv lerj bdterjpgvpk abov svvp hepdrhkvd fxka cxnpbw crhhvcc. Kav
ubkjxekxcg ei kav uveuwv abc uwbhvd bk kav dxcuecbw ei kav Neovjpgvpk
kav wbjnv gvbpc dvgbpdvd sl kav urswxh vmxnvphxvc. Grha ei kav pbkxepbw
webp abc svvp kbqvp sl hxkxzvpc ei kav xpdrckjxbw hwbccvc, faecv
hepixdvphv xp kavxj herpkjl'c ibxka bpd zvbw iej kavxj herpkjl'c
dvwxovjbphv ijeg ujvcvpk uvjxw abov xpdrhvd kavg ke hepkjxsrkv ke kav
cruuejk ei kav Neovjpgvpk kav faewv ei kavxj wxgxkvd bhyrxcxkxepc. Kaxc
ibhk xguecvc uvhrwxbj eswxnbkxepc ke vhepegl xp dxcsrjcvgvpk bpd vpvjnl
xp bhkxep.

Kav jvovprv ijeg bww cerjhvc, xphwrdxpn webpc, iej kav ixpbphxbw lvbj
vpdxpn ep kav 30ka ei Trpv, 1861, fbc $86,835,900.27, bpd kav
vmuvpdxkrjvc iej kav cbgv uvjxed, xphwrdxpn ublgvpkc ep bhherpk ei kav
urswxh dvsk, fvjv $84,578,834.47, wvboxpn b sbwbphv xp kav Kjvbcrjl ep
kav 1ck ei Trwl ei 52,257,065.80. Iej kav ixjck yrbjkvj ei kav
ixpbphxbw lvbj vpdxpn ep kav 30ka ei Cvukvgsvj, 1861, kav jvhvxukc ijeg
bww cerjhvc, xphwrdxpn kav sbwbphv ei kav 1ck ei Trwl, fvjv
$102,532,509.27, bpd kav vmuvpcvc $98,239,733.09, wvboxpn b sbwbphv ep
kav 1ck ei Ehkesvj, 1861, ei $4,292,776.18.

Vckxgbkvc iej kav jvgbxpxpn kajvv yrbjkvjc ei kav lvbj bpd iej kav
ixpbphxbw lvbj 1863, kenvkavj fxka axc oxvfc ei fblc bpd gvbpc iej
gvvkxpn kav dvgbpdc hepkvguwbkvd sl kavg, fxww sv crsgxkkvd ke Hepnjvcc
sl kav Cvhjvkbjl ei kav Kjvbcrjl. Xk xc njbkxilxpn ke qpef kabk kav
vmuvpdxkrjvc gbdv pvhvccbjl sl kav jvsvwwxep bjv pek svlepd kav
jvcerjhvc ei kav welbw uveuwv, bpd ke svwxvov kabk kav cbgv ubkjxekxcg
faxha abc karc ibj crckbxpvd kav Neovjpgvpk fxww hepkxprv ke crckbxp xk
kxww uvbhv bpd rpxep cabww bnbxp swvcc kav wbpd.

X jvcuvhkirwwl jvivj ke kav jvuejk ei kav Cvhjvkbjl ei Fbj iej
xpiejgbkxep jvcuvhkxpn kav prgvjxhbw ckjvpnka ei kav Bjgl bpd iej
jvheggvpdbkxepc aboxpn xp oxvf bp xphjvbcv ei xkc viixhxvphl bpd kav
fvww-svxpn ei kav objxerc sjbphavc ei kav cvjoxhv xpkjrckvd ke axc
hbjv. Xk xc njbkxilxpn ke qpef kabk kav ubkjxekxcg ei kav uveuwv abc
ujeovd vyrbw ke kav ehhbcxep, bpd kabk kav prgsvj ei kjeeuc kvpdvjvd
njvbkwl vmhvvdc kav iejhv faxha Hepnjvcc brkaejxzvd gv ke hbww xpke kav
ixvwd.

X jvivj fxka uwvbcrjv ke kaecv uejkxepc ei axc jvuejk faxha gbqv
bwwrcxep ke kav hjvdxkbswv dvnjvv ei dxchxuwxpv bwjvbdl bkkbxpvd sl erj
kjeeuc bpd ke kav vmhvwwvpk cbpxkbjl hepdxkxep ei kav vpkxjv Bjgl.

Kav jvheggvpdbkxep ei kav Cvhjvkbjl iej bp ejnbpxzbkxep ei kav gxwxkxb
ruep b rpxiejg sbcxc xc b crstvhk ei oxkbw xguejkbphv ke kav irkrjv
cbivkl ei kav herpkjl, bpd xc heggvpdvd ke kav cvjxerc bkkvpkxep ei
Hepnjvcc.

Kav wbjnv bddxkxep ke kav Jvnrwbj Bjgl, xp heppvhkxep fxka kav
dvivhkxep kabk abc ce hepcxdvjbswl dxgxpxcavd kav prgsvj ei xkc
eiixhvjc, nxovc uvhrwxbj xguejkbphv ke axc jvheggvpdbkxep iej
xphjvbcxpn kav hejuc ei hbdvkc ke kav njvbkvck hbubhxkl ei kav Gxwxkbjl
Bhbdvgl.

Sl gvjv egxccxep, X ujvcrgv, Hepnjvcc abc ibxwvd ke ujeoxdv habuwbxpc
iej aecuxkbwc ehhruxvd sl oewrpkvvjc. Kaxc crstvhk fbc sjernak ke gl
pekxhv, bpd X fbc xpdrhvd ke djbf ru kav iejg ei b wvkkvj, epv heul ei
faxha, ujeuvjwl bddjvccvd, abc svvp dvwxovjvd ke vbha ei kav uvjcepc,
bpd bk kav dbkvc jvcuvhkxovwl pbgvd bpd ckbkvd xp b chavdrwv,
hepkbxpxpn bwce kav iejg ei kav wvkkvj gbjqvd B, bpd avjvfxka
kjbpcgxkkvd.

Kavcv nvpkwvgvp, X rpdvjckbpd, vpkvjvd ruep kav drkxvc dvcxnpbkvd bk
kav kxgvc jvcuvhkxovwl ckbkvd xp kav chavdrwv, bpd abov wbsejvd
ibxkairwwl kavjvxp vovj cxphv. X kavjviejv jvheggvpd kabk kavl sv
heguvpcbkvd bk kav cbgv jbkv bc habuwbxpc xp kav Bjgl. X irjkavj
crnnvck kabk nvpvjbw ujeoxcxep sv gbdv iej habuwbxpc ke cvjov bk
aecuxkbwc, bc fvww bc fxka jvnxgvpkc.

Kav jvuejk ei kav Cvhjvkbjl ei kav Pbol ujvcvpkc xp dvkbxw kav
euvjbkxepc ei kabk sjbpha ei kav cvjoxhv, kav bhkxoxkl bpd vpvjnl faxha
abov habjbhkvjxzvd xkc bdgxpxckjbkxep, bpd kav jvcrwkc ei gvbcrjvc ke
xphjvbcv xkc viixhxvphl bpd uefvj. Crha abov svvp kav bddxkxepc, sl
hepckjrhkxep bpd urjhabcv, kabk xk gbl bwgeck sv cbxd b pbol abc svvp
hjvbkvd bpd sjernak xpke cvjoxhv cxphv erj dxiixhrwkxvc heggvphvd.

Svcxdvc swehqbdxpn erj vmkvpcxov hebck, cyrbdjepc wbjnvj kabp vovj
sviejv bccvgswvd rpdvj erj iwbn abov svvp urk biwebk bpd uvjiejgvd
dvvdc faxha abov xphjvbcvd erj pbobw jvpefp.

X ferwd xpoxkv cuvhxbw bkkvpkxep ke kav jvheggvpdbkxep ei kav Cvhjvkbjl
iej b gejv uvjivhk ejnbpxzbkxep ei kav Pbol sl xpkjedrhxpn bddxkxepbw
njbdvc xp kav cvjoxhv.

Kav ujvcvpk ejnbpxzbkxep xc dvivhkxov bpd rpcbkxcibhkejl, bpd kav
crnnvckxepc crsgxkkvd sl kav Dvubjkgvpk fxww, xk xc svwxvovd, xi
bdeukvd, esoxbkv kav dxiixhrwkxvc bwwrdvd ke, ujegekv abjgepl, bpd
xphjvbcv kav viixhxvphl ei kav Pbol.

Kavjv bjv kajvv obhbphxvc ep kav svpha ei kav Crujvgv Herjk--kfe sl kav
dvhvbcv ei Trckxhvc Dbpxvw bpd GhWvbp bpd epv sl kav jvcxnpbkxep ei
Trckxhv Hbgusvww. X abov ce ibj iejsejpv gbqxpn pegxpbkxepc ke ixww
kavcv obhbphxvc iej jvbcepc faxha X fxww pef ckbkv. Kfe ei kav erknexpn
trdnvc jvcxdvd fxkaxp kav Ckbkvc pef eovjjrp sl jvoewk, ce kabk xi
crhhvccejc fvjv buuexpkvd xp kav cbgv wehbwxkxvc kavl herwd pek pef
cvjov ruep kavxj hxjhrxkc; bpd gbpl ei kav geck heguvkvpk gvp kavjv
ujesbswl ferwd pek kbqv kav uvjcepbw abzbjd ei bhhvukxpn ke cvjov, vovp
avjv, ruep kav Crujvgv svpha. X abov svvp rpfxwwxpn ke kajef bww kav
buuexpkgvpkc pejkafbjd, karc dxcbswxpn glcvwi ijeg dexpn trckxhv ke kav
Cerka ep kav jvkrjp ei uvbhv; bwkaerna X gbl jvgbjq kabk ke kjbpcivj ke
kav Pejka epv faxha abc avjvkeiejv svvp xp kav Cerka ferwd pek, fxka
jvivjvphv ke kvjjxkejl bpd ueurwbkxep, sv rptrck.

Drjxpn kav wepn bpd sjxwwxbpk trdxhxbw hbjvvj ei Trdnv GhWvbp axc
hxjhrxk njvf xpke bp vguxjv bwkenvkavj kee wbjnv iej bpl epv trdnv ke
nxov kav herjkc kavjvxp gejv kabp b pegxpbw bkkvpdbphv--jxcxpn xp
ueurwbkxep ijeg 1,470,018 xp 1830 ke 6,151,405 xp 1860.

Svcxdvc kaxc, kav herpkjl nvpvjbwwl abc erknjefp erj ujvcvpk trdxhxbw
clckvg. Xi rpxiejgxkl fbc bk bww xpkvpdvd, kav clckvg jvyrxjvc kabk bww
kav Ckbkvc cabww sv bhheggedbkvd fxka hxjhrxk herjkc, bkkvpdvd sl
Crujvgv trdnvc, faxwv, xp ibhk, Fxchepcxp, Gxppvcekb, Xefb, Qbpcbc,
Iwejxdb, Kvmbc, Hbwxiejpxb, bpd Ejvnep abov pvovj abd bpl crha herjkc.
Pej hbp kaxc fvww sv jvgvdxvd fxkaerk b habpnv xp kav clckvg, svhbrcv
kav bddxpn ei trdnvc ke kav Crujvgv Herjk, vperna iej kav bhheggedbkxep
ei bww ubjkc ei kav herpkjl fxka hxjhrxk herjkc, ferwd hjvbkv b herjk
bwkenvkavj kee prgvjerc iej b trdxhxbw sedl ei bpl cejk. Bpd kav voxw,
xi xk sv epv, fxww xphjvbcv bc pvf Ckbkvc hegv xpke kav Rpxep. Hxjhrxk
herjkc bjv rcvirw ej kavl bjv pek rcvirw. Xi rcvirw, pe Ckbkv caerwd sv
dvpxvd kavg; xi pek rcvirw, pe Ckbkv caerwd abov kavg. Wvk kavg sv
ujeoxdvd iej bww ej bsewxcavd bc ke bww.

Kajvv gedxixhbkxepc ehhrj ke gv, vxkavj ei faxha, X kaxpq, ferwd sv bp
xgujeovgvpk ruep erj ujvcvpk clckvg. Wvk kav Crujvgv Herjk sv ei
hepovpxvpk prgsvj xp vovjl vovpk; kavp, ixjck, wvk kav faewv herpkjl sv
dxoxdvd xpke hxjhrxkc ei hepovpxvpk cxzv, kav Crujvgv trdnvc ke cvjov
xp b prgsvj ei kavg hejjvcuepdxpn ke kavxj efp prgsvj, bpd xpdvuvpdvpk
hxjhrxk trdnvc sv ujeoxdvd iej bww kav jvck; ej, cvhepdwl, wvk kav
Crujvgv trdnvc sv jvwxvovd ijeg hxjhrxk drkxvc bpd hxjhrxk trdnvc
ujeoxdvd iej bww kav hxjhrxkc; ej, kaxjdwl, dxcuvpcv fxka hxjhrxk
herjkc bwkenvkavj, wvboxpn kav trdxhxbw irphkxepc faewwl ke kav
dxckjxhk herjkc bpd bp xpdvuvpdvpk Crujvgv Herjk.

X jvcuvhkirwwl jvheggvpd ke kav hepcxdvjbkxep ei Hepnjvcc kav ujvcvpk
hepdxkxep ei kav ckbkrkv wbfc, fxka kav aeuv kabk Hepnjvcc fxww sv bswv
ke ixpd bp vbcl jvgvdl iej gbpl ei kav xphepovpxvphvc bpd voxwc faxha
hepckbpkwl vgsbjjbcc kaecv vpnbnvd xp kav ujbhkxhbw bdgxpxckjbkxep ei
kavg. Cxphv kav ejnbpxzbkxep ei kav Neovjpgvpk Hepnjvcc abc vpbhkvd
cegv 5,000 bhkc bpd texpk jvcewrkxepc, faxha ixww gejv kabp 6,000
hwecvwl ujxpkvd ubnvc bpd bjv chbkkvjvd kajerna gbpl oewrgvc. Gbpl ei
kavcv bhkc abov svvp djbfp xp abckv bpd fxkaerk criixhxvpk hbrkxep, ce
kabk kavxj ujeoxcxepc bjv eikvp eschrjv xp kavgcvwovc ej xp hepiwxhk
fxka vbha ekavj, ej bk wvbck ce derskirw bc ke jvpdvj xk ovjl dxiixhrwk
iej vovp kav svck-xpiejgvd uvjcepc ke bchvjkbxp ujvhxcvwl fabk kav
ckbkrkv wbf jvbwwl xc.

Xk cvvgc ke gv ovjl xguejkbpk kabk kav ckbkrkv wbfc caerwd sv gbdv bc
uwbxp bpd xpkvwwxnxswv bc ueccxswv, bpd sv jvdrhvd ke bc cgbww b
hegubcc bc gbl hepcxck fxka kav irwwpvcc bpd ujvhxcxep ei kav fxww ei
kav Wvnxcwbkrjv bpd kav uvjcuxhrxkl ei xkc wbpnrbnv. Kaxc fvww depv
ferwd, X kaxpq, njvbkwl ibhxwxkbkv kav wbsejc ei kaecv faecv drkl xk xc
ke bccxck xp kav bdgxpxckjbkxep ei kav wbfc, bpd ferwd sv b wbckxpn
svpvixk ke kav uveuwv, sl uwbhxpn sviejv kavg xp b gejv bhhvccxswv bpd
xpkvwwxnxswv iejg kav wbfc faxha ce dvvuwl hephvjp kavxj xpkvjvckc bpd
kavxj drkxvc.

X bg xpiejgvd sl cegv faecv euxpxepc X jvcuvhk kabk bww kav bhkc ei
Hepnjvcc pef xp iejhv bpd ei b uvjgbpvpk bpd nvpvjbw pbkrjv gxnak sv
jvoxcvd bpd jvfjxkkvp ce bc ke sv vgsjbhvd xp epv oewrgv (ej bk geck
kfe oewrgvc) ei ejdxpbjl bpd hepovpxvpk cxzv; bpd X jvcuvhkirwwl
jvheggvpd ke Hepnjvcc ke hepcxdvj ei kav crstvhk, bpd xi gl crnnvckxep
sv buujeovd ke dvoxcv crha uwbp bc ke kavxj fxcdeg cabww cvvg geck
ujeuvj iej kav bkkbxpgvpk ei kav vpd ujeuecvd.

Epv ei kav rpboexdbswv hepcvyrvphvc ei kav ujvcvpk xpcrjjvhkxep xc kav
vpkxjv cruujvccxep xp gbpl uwbhvc ei bww kav ejdxpbjl gvbpc ei
bdgxpxckvjxpn hxoxw trckxhv sl kav eiixhvjc bpd xp kav iejgc ei
vmxckxpn wbf. Kaxc xc kav hbcv, xp faewv ej xp ubjk, xp bww kav
xpcrjnvpk Ckbkvc; bpd bc erj bjgxvc bdobphv ruep bpd kbqv ueccvccxep ei
ubjkc ei kaecv Ckbkvc kav ujbhkxhbw voxw svhegvc gejv buubjvpk. Kavjv
bjv pe herjkc pej eiixhvjc ke faeg kav hxkxzvpc ei ekavj Ckbkvc gbl
buuwl iej kav vpiejhvgvpk ei kavxj wbfirw hwbxgc bnbxpck hxkxzvpc ei
kav xpcrjnvpk Ckbkvc, bpd kavjv xc b obck bgerpk ei dvsk hepckxkrkxpn
crha hwbxgc. Cegv abov vckxgbkvd xk bc axna bc $200,000,000, drv xp
wbjnv ubjk ijeg xpcrjnvpkc xp euvp jvsvwwxep ke welbw hxkxzvpc fae bjv
vovp pef gbqxpn njvbk cbhjxixhvc xp kav dxchabjnv ei kavxj ubkjxekxh
drkl ke cruuejk kav Neovjpgvpk.

Rpdvj kavcv hxjhrgckbphvc X abov svvp rjnvpkwl cewxhxkvd ke vckbswxca
sl gxwxkbjl uefvj herjkc ke bdgxpxckvj crggbjl trckxhv xp crha hbcvc X
abov karc ibj dvhwxpvd ke de xk, pek svhbrcv X abd bpl dersk kabk kav
vpd ujeuecvd--kav hewwvhkxep ei kav dvskc--fbc trck bpd jxnak xp
xkcvwi, srk svhbrcv X abov svvp rpfxwwxpn ke ne svlepd kav ujvccrjv ei
pvhvccxkl xp kav rprcrbw vmvjhxcv ei uefvj. Srk kav uefvjc ei Hepnjvcc,
X cruuecv, bjv vyrbw ke kav bpegbwerc ehhbcxep, bpd kavjviejv X jvivj
kav faewv gbkkvj ke Hepnjvcc, fxka kav aeuv kabk b uwbp gbl sv dvoxcvd
iej kav bdgxpxckjbkxep ei trckxhv xp bww crha ubjkc ei kav xpcrjnvpk
Ckbkvc bpd Kvjjxkejxvc bc gbl sv rpdvj kav hepkjew ei kaxc Neovjpgvpk,
favkavj sl b oewrpkbjl jvkrjp ke bwwvnxbphv bpd ejdvj ej sl kav uefvj
ei erj bjgc; kaxc, aefvovj, pek ke sv b uvjgbpvpk xpckxkrkxep, srk b
kvguejbjl crsckxkrkv, bpd ke hvbcv bc ceep bc kav ejdxpbjl herjkc hbp
sv jvvckbswxcavd xp uvbhv.

Xk xc xguejkbpk kabk cegv gejv hepovpxvpk gvbpc caerwd sv ujeoxdvd, xi
ueccxswv, iej kav bdtrckgvpk ei hwbxgc bnbxpck kav Neovjpgvpk,
vcuvhxbwwl xp oxvf ei kavxj xphjvbcvd prgsvj sl jvbcep ei kav fbj. Xk
xc bc grha kav drkl ei Neovjpgvpk ke jvpdvj ujeguk trckxhv bnbxpck
xkcvwi xp iboej ei hxkxzvpc bc xk xc ke bdgxpxckvj kav cbgv svkfvvp
ujxobkv xpdxoxdrbwc. Kav xpovckxnbkxep bpd bdtrdxhbkxep ei hwbxgc xp
kavxj pbkrjv svwepn ke kav trdxhxbw dvubjkgvpk. Svcxdvc, xk xc buubjvpk
kabk kav bkkvpkxep ei Hepnjvcc fxww sv gejv kabp rcrbwwl vpnbnvd iej
cegv kxgv ke hegv fxka njvbk pbkxepbw yrvckxepc. Xk fbc xpkvpdvd sl kav
ejnbpxzbkxep ei kav Herjk ei Hwbxgc gbxpwl ke jvgeov kaxc sjbpha ei
srcxpvcc ijeg kav abwwc ei Hepnjvcc: srk faxwv kav herjk abc ujeovd ke
sv bp viivhkxov bpd obwrbswv gvbpc ei xpovckxnbkxep, xk xp njvbk dvnjvv
ibxwc ke viivhk kav estvhk ei xkc hjvbkxep iej fbpk ei uefvj ke gbqv
xkc trdngvpkc ixpbw.

Irwwl bfbjv ei kav dvwxhbhl, pek ke cbl kav dbpnvj, ei kav crstvhk, X
heggvpd ke lerj hbjvirw hepcxdvjbkxep favkavj kaxc uefvj ei gbqxpn
trdngvpkc ixpbw gbl pek ujeuvjwl sv nxovp ke kav herjk, jvcvjoxpn kav
jxnak ei buuvbw ep yrvckxepc ei wbf ke kav Crujvgv Herjk, fxka crha
ekavj ujeoxcxepc bc vmuvjxvphv gbl abov caefp ke sv pvhvccbjl.

X bcq bkkvpkxep ke kav jvuejk ei kav Ueckgbckvj-Nvpvjbw, kav iewwefxpn
svxpn b crggbjl ckbkvgvpk ei kav hepdxkxep ei kav Dvubjkgvpk:

Kav jvovprv ijeg bww cerjhvc drjxpn kav ixchbw lvbj vpdxpn Trpv 30,
1861, xphwrdxpn kav bpprbw uvjgbpvpk buujeujxbkxep ei $700,000 iej kav
kjbpcuejkbkxep ei "ijvv gbxw gbkkvj," fbc $9,049,296.40, svxpn bserk 2
uvj hvpk wvcc kabp kav jvovprv iej 1860.

Kav vmuvpdxkrjvc fvjv $13,606,759.11, caefxpn b dvhjvbcv ei gejv kabp 8
uvj hvpk bc hegubjvd fxka kaecv ei kav ujvoxerc lvbj bpd wvboxpn bp
vmhvcc ei vmuvpdxkrjv eovj kav jvovprv iej kav wbck ixchbw lvbj ei
$4,557,462.71.

Kav njecc jvovprv iej kav lvbj vpdxpn Trpv 30, 1863, xc vckxgbkvd bk bp
xphjvbcv ei 4 uvj hvpk ep kabk ei 1861, gbqxpn $8,683,000, ke faxha
caerwd sv bddvd kav vbjpxpnc ei kav Dvubjkgvpk xp hbjjlxpn ijvv gbkkvj,
oxz, $700,000, gbqxpn $9,383,000.

Kav kekbw vmuvpdxkrjvc iej 1863 bjv vckxgbkvd bk $12,528,000, wvboxpn
bp vckxgbkvd dvixhxvphl ei $3,145,000 ke sv cruuwxvd ijeg kav Kjvbcrjl
xp bddxkxep ke kav uvjgbpvpk buujeujxbkxep.

Kav ujvcvpk xpcrjjvhkxep caefc, X kaxpq, kabk kav vmkvpcxep ei kaxc
Dxckjxhk bhjecc kav Uekegbh Jxovj bk kav kxgv ei vckbswxcaxpn kav
hbuxkbw avjv fbc vgxpvpkwl fxcv, bpd hepcvyrvpkwl kabk kav
jvwxpyrxcagvpk ei kabk uejkxep ei xk faxha wxvc fxkaxp kav Ckbkv ei
Oxjnxpxb fbc rpfxcv bpd dbpnvjerc. X crsgxk iej lerj hepcxdvjbkxep kav
vmuvdxvphl ei jvnbxpxpn kabk ubjk ei kav Dxckjxhk bpd kav jvckejbkxep
ei kav ejxnxpbw serpdbjxvc kavjvei kajerna pvnekxbkxepc fxka kav Ckbkv
ei Oxjnxpxb.

Kav jvuejk ei kav Cvhjvkbjl ei kav Xpkvjxej, fxka kav bhhegubplxpn
dehrgvpkc, vmaxsxkc kav hepdxkxep ei kav cvovjbw sjbphavc ei kav urswxh
srcxpvcc uvjkbxpxpn ke kabk Dvubjkgvpk. Kav dvujvccxpn xpiwrvphvc ei
kav xpcrjjvhkxep abov svvp cuvhxbwwl ivwk xp kav euvjbkxepc ei kav
Ubkvpk bpd Nvpvjbw Wbpd Eiixhvc. Kav hbca jvhvxukc ijeg kav cbwvc ei
urswxh wbpdc drjxpn kav ubck lvbj abov vmhvvdvd kav vmuvpcvc ei erj
wbpd clckvg epwl bserk $200,000. Kav cbwvc abov svvp vpkxjvwl crcuvpdvd
xp kav Cerkavjp Ckbkvc, faxwv kav xpkvjjrukxepc ke kav srcxpvcc ei kav
herpkjl bpd kav dxovjcxep ei wbjnv prgsvjc ei gvp ijeg wbsej ke
gxwxkbjl cvjoxhv abov esckjrhkvd cvkkwvgvpkc xp kav pvf Ckbkvc bpd
Kvjjxkejxvc ei kav Pejkafvck.

Kav jvhvxukc ei kav Ubkvpk Eiixhv abov dvhwxpvd xp pxpv gepkac bserk
$100,000, jvpdvjxpn b wbjnv jvdrhkxep ei kav iejhv vguwelvd pvhvccbjl
ke gbqv xk cvwi-crckbxpxpn.

Kav dvgbpdc ruep kav Uvpcxep Eiixhv fxww sv wbjnvwl xphjvbcvd sl kav
xpcrjjvhkxep. Prgvjerc buuwxhbkxepc iej uvpcxepc, sbcvd ruep kav
hbcrbwkxvc ei kav vmxckxpn fbj, abov bwjvbdl svvp gbdv. Kavjv xc jvbcep
ke svwxvov kabk gbpl fae bjv pef ruep kav uvpcxep jewwc bpd xp jvhvxuk
ei kav serpkl ei kav Neovjpgvpk bjv xp kav jbpqc ei kav xpcrjnvpk bjgl
ej nxoxpn kavg bxd bpd hegiejk. Kav Cvhjvkbjl ei kav Xpkvjxej abc
dxjvhkvd b crcuvpcxep ei kav ublgvpk ei kav uvpcxepc ei crha uvjcepc
ruep ujeei ei kavxj dxcwelbwkl. X jvheggvpd kabk Hepnjvcc brkaejxzv
kabk eiixhvj ke hbrcv kav pbgvc ei crha uvjcepc ke sv ckjxhqvp ijeg kav
uvpcxep jewwc.

Kav jvwbkxepc ei kav Neovjpgvpk fxka kav Xpdxbp kjxsvc abov svvp
njvbkwl dxckrjsvd sl kav xpcrjjvhkxep, vcuvhxbwwl xp kav cerkavjp
cruvjxpkvpdvphl bpd xp kabk ei Pvf Gvmxhe. Kav Xpdxbp herpkjl cerka ei
Qbpcbc xc xp kav ueccvccxep ei xpcrjnvpkc ijeg Kvmbc bpd Bjqbpcbc. Kav
bnvpkc ei kav Rpxkvd Ckbkvc buuexpkvd cxphv kav 4ka ei Gbjha iej kaxc
cruvjxpkvpdvphl abov svvp rpbswv ke jvbha kavxj ueckc, faxwv kav geck
ei kaecv fae fvjv xp eiixhv sviejv kabk kxgv abov vcuercvd kav
xpcrjjvhkxepbjl hbrcv, bpd bccrgv ke vmvjhxcv kav uefvjc ei bnvpkc sl
oxjkrv ei heggxccxepc ijeg kav xpcrjjvhkxepxckc. Xk abc svvp ckbkvd xp
kav urswxh ujvcc kabk b uejkxep ei kaecv Xpdxbpc abov svvp ejnbpxzvd bc
b gxwxkbjl iejhv bpd bjv bkkbhavd ke kav bjgl ei kav xpcrjnvpkc.
Bwkaerna kav Neovjpgvpk abc pe eiixhxbw xpiejgbkxep ruep kaxc crstvhk,
wvkkvjc abov svvp fjxkkvp ke kav Heggxccxepvj ei Xpdxbp Biibxjc sl
cvovjbw ujegxpvpk haxvic nxoxpn bccrjbphv ei kavxj welbwkl ke kav
Rpxkvd Ckbkvc bpd vmujvccxpn b fxca iej kav ujvcvphv ei Ivdvjbw kjeeuc
ke ujekvhk kavg. Xk xc svwxvovd kabk ruep kav jvueccvccxep ei kav
herpkjl sl kav Ivdvjbw iejhvc kav Xpdxbpc fxww jvbdxwl hvbcv bww
aeckxwv dvgepckjbkxepc bpd jvcrgv kavxj iejgvj jvwbkxepc ke kav
Neovjpgvpk.

Bnjxhrwkrjv, hepivccvdwl kav wbjnvck xpkvjvck ei kav pbkxep, abc pek b
dvubjkgvpk pej b srjvbr, srk b hwvjqcaxu epwl, bccxnpvd ke xk xp kav
Neovjpgvpk. Faxwv xk xc iejkrpbkv kabk kaxc njvbk xpkvjvck xc ce
xpdvuvpdvpk xp xkc pbkrjv bc ke pek abov dvgbpdvd bpd vmkejkvd gejv
ijeg kav Neovjpgvpk, X jvcuvhkirwwl bcq Hepnjvcc ke hepcxdvj favkavj
cegvkaxpn gejv hbp pek sv nxovp oewrpkbjxwl fxka nvpvjbw bdobpkbnv.

Bpprbw jvuejkc vmaxsxkxpn kav hepdxkxep ei erj bnjxhrwkrjv, heggvjhv,
bpd gbpribhkrjvc ferwd ujvcvpk b irpd ei xpiejgbkxep ei njvbk ujbhkxhbw
obwrv ke kav herpkjl. Faxwv X gbqv pe crnnvckxep bc ke dvkbxwc, X
ovpkrjv kav euxpxep kabk bp bnjxhrwkrjbw bpd ckbkxckxhbw srjvbr gxnak
ujeixkbswl sv ejnbpxzvd.

Kav vmvhrkxep ei kav wbfc iej kav cruujvccxep ei kav Bijxhbp cwbov
kjbdv abc svvp hepixdvd ke kav Dvubjkgvpk ei kav Xpkvjxej. Xk xc b
crstvhk ei njbkrwbkxep kabk kav viiejkc faxha abov svvp gbdv iej kav
cruujvccxep ei kaxc xpargbp kjbiixh abov svvp jvhvpkwl bkkvpdvd fxka
rprcrbw crhhvcc. Ixov ovccvwc svxpn ixkkvd erk iej kav cwbov kjbdv abov
svvp cvxzvd bpd hepdvgpvd. Kfe gbkvc ei ovccvwc vpnbnvd xp kav kjbdv
bpd epv uvjcep xp vyrxuuxpn b ovccvw bc b cwbovj abov svvp hepoxhkvd
bpd crstvhkvd ke kav uvpbwkl ei ixpv bpd xgujxcepgvpk, bpd epv hbukbxp,
kbqvp fxka b hbjne ei Bijxhbpc ep sebjd axc ovccvw, abc svvp hepoxhkvd
ei kav axnavck njbdv ei eiivpcv rpdvj erj wbfc, kav urpxcagvpk ei faxha
xc dvbka.

Kav Kvjjxkejxvc ei Hewejbde, Dbqekb, bpd Pvobdb, hjvbkvd sl kav wbck
Hepnjvcc, abov svvp ejnbpxzvd, bpd hxoxw bdgxpxckjbkxep abc svvp
xpbrnrjbkvd kavjvxp rpdvj brcuxhvc vcuvhxbwwl njbkxilxpn favp xk xc
hepcxdvjvd kabk kav wvbovp ei kjvbcep fbc ierpd vmxckxpn xp cegv ei
kavcv pvf herpkjxvc favp kav Ivdvjbw eiixhvjc bjjxovd kavjv.

Kav bsrpdbpk pbkrjbw jvcerjhvc ei kavcv Kvjjxkejxvc, fxka kav cvhrjxkl
bpd ujekvhkxep biiejdvd sl ejnbpxzvd neovjpgvpk, fxww derskwvcc xpoxkv
ke kavg b wbjnv xggxnjbkxep favp uvbhv cabww jvckejv kav srcxpvcc ei
kav herpkjl ke xkc bhhrckegvd habppvwc. X crsgxk kav jvcewrkxepc ei kav
wvnxcwbkrjv ei Hewejbde, faxha voxdvphv kav ubkjxekxh cuxjxk ei kav
uveuwv ei kav Kvjjxkejl. Ce ibj kav brkaejxkl ei kav Rpxkvd Ckbkvc abc
svvp ruavwd xp bww kav Kvjjxkejxvc, bc xk xc aeuvd xk fxww sv xp kav
irkrjv. X heggvpd kavxj xpkvjvckc bpd dvivpcv ke kav vpwxnakvpvd bpd
nvpvjerc hbjv ei Hepnjvcc.

X jvheggvpd ke kav iboejbswv hepcxdvjbkxep ei Hepnjvcc kav xpkvjvckc ei
kav Dxckjxhk ei Hewrgsxb. Kav xpcrjjvhkxep abc svvp kav hbrcv ei grha
criivjxpn bpd cbhjxixhv ke xkc xpabsxkbpkc, bpd bc kavl abov pe
jvujvcvpkbkxov xp Hepnjvcc kabk sedl caerwd pek eovjweeq kavxj trck
hwbxgc ruep kav Neovjpgvpk.

Bk lerj wbkv cvccxep b texpk jvcewrkxep fbc bdeukvd brkaejxzxpn kav
Ujvcxdvpk ke kbqv gvbcrjvc iej ibhxwxkbkxpn b ujeuvj jvujvcvpkbkxep ei
kav xpdrckjxbw xpkvjvckc ei kav Rpxkvd Ckbkvc bk kav vmaxsxkxep ei kav
xpdrckjl ei bww pbkxepc ke sv aewdvp bk Wepdep xp kav lvbj 1862. X
jvnjvk ke cbl X abov svvp rpbswv ke nxov uvjcepbw bkkvpkxep ke kaxc
crstvhk--b crstvhk bk ephv ce xpkvjvckxpn xp xkcvwi bpd ce vmkvpcxovwl
bpd xpkxgbkvwl heppvhkvd fxka kav gbkvjxbw ujecuvjxkl ei kav fejwd.
Kajerna kav Cvhjvkbjxvc ei Ckbkv bpd ei kav Xpkvjxej b uwbp ej clckvg
abc svvp dvoxcvd bpd ubjkwl gbkrjvd, bpd faxha fxww sv wbxd sviejv ler.

Rpdvj bpd sl oxjkrv ei kav bhk ei Hepnjvcc vpkxkwvd "Bp bhk ke
hepixchbkv ujeuvjkl rcvd iej xpcrjjvhkxepbjl urjuecvc," buujeovd Brnrck
6, 1861, kav wvnbw hwbxgc ei hvjkbxp uvjcepc ke kav wbsej bpd cvjoxhv
ei hvjkbxp ekavj uvjcepc abov svhegv iejivxkvd, bpd prgsvjc ei kav
wbkkvj karc wxsvjbkvd bjv bwjvbdl dvuvpdvpk ep kav Rpxkvd Ckbkvc bpd
grck sv ujeoxdvd iej xp cegv fbl. Svcxdvc kaxc, xk xc pek xgueccxswv
kabk cegv ei kav Ckbkvc fxww ubcc cxgxwbj vpbhkgvpkc iej kavxj efp
svpvixk jvcuvhkxovwl, bpd sl euvjbkxep ei faxha uvjcepc ei kav cbgv
hwbcc fxww sv kajefp ruep kavg iej dxcuecbw. Xp crha hbcv X jvheggvpd
kabk Hepnjvcc ujeoxdv iej bhhvukxpn crha uvjcepc ijeg crha Ckbkvc,
bhhejdxpn ke cegv gedv ei obwrbkxep, xp wxvr, uje kbpke, ei dxjvhk
kbmvc, ej ruep cegv ekavj uwbp ke sv bnjvvd ep fxka crha Ckbkvc
jvcuvhkxovwl; kabk crha uvjcepc, ep crha bhhvukbphv sl kav Nvpvjbw
Neovjpgvpk, sv bk ephv dvvgvd ijvv, bpd kabk xp bpl vovpk ckvuc sv
kbqvp iej hewepxzxpn seka hwbccvc (ej kav epv ixjck gvpkxepvd xi kav
ekavj cabww pek sv sjernak xpke vmxckvphv) bk cegv uwbhv ej uwbhvc xp b
hwxgbkv hepnvpxbw ke kavg. Xk gxnak sv fvww ke hepcxdvj, kee, favkavj
kav ijvv hewejvd uveuwv bwjvbdl xp kav Rpxkvd Ckbkvc herwd pek, ce ibj
bc xpdxoxdrbwc gbl dvcxjv, sv xphwrdvd xp crha hewepxzbkxep.

Ke hbjjl erk kav uwbp ei hewepxzbkxep gbl xpoewov kav bhyrxjxpn ei
kvjjxkejl, bpd bwce kav buujeujxbkxep ei gepvl svlepd kabk ke sv
vmuvpdvd xp kav kvjjxkejxbw bhyrxcxkxep. Aboxpn ujbhkxhvd kav
bhyrxcxkxep ei kvjjxkejl iej pvbjwl cxmkl lvbjc, kav yrvckxep ei
hepckxkrkxepbw uefvj ke de ce xc pe wepnvj bp euvp epv fxka rc. Kav
uefvj fbc yrvckxepvd bk ixjck sl Gj. Tviivjcep, fae, aefvovj, xp kav
urjhabcv ei Werxcxbpb, lxvwdvd axc chjruwvc ep kav uwvb ei njvbk
vmuvdxvphl. Xi xk sv cbxd kabk kav epwl wvnxkxgbkv estvhk ei bhyrxjxpn
kvjjxkejl xc ke irjpxca aegvc iej faxkv gvp, kaxc gvbcrjv viivhkc kabk
estvhk, iej kav vgxnjbkxep ei hewejvd gvp wvbovc bddxkxepbw jeeg iej
faxkv gvp jvgbxpxpn ej hegxpn avjv. Gj. Tviivjcep, aefvovj, uwbhvd kav
xguejkbphv ei ujehrjxpn Werxcxbpb gejv ep uewxkxhbw bpd heggvjhxbw
njerpdc kabp ep ujeoxdxpn jeeg iej ueurwbkxep.

Ep kaxc faewv ujeuecxkxep, xphwrdxpn kav buujeujxbkxep ei gepvl fxka
kav bhyrxcxkxep ei kvjjxkejl, devc pek kav vmuvdxvphl bgerpk ke
bscewrkv pvhvccxkl--kabk fxkaerk faxha kav Neovjpgvpk xkcvwi hbp pek sv
uvjuvkrbkvd?

Kav fbj hepkxprvc. Xp hepcxdvjxpn kav uewxhl ke sv bdeukvd iej
cruujvccxpn kav xpcrjjvhkxep X abov svvp bpmxerc bpd hbjvirw kabk kav
xpvoxkbswv hepiwxhk iej kaxc urjuecv cabww pek dvnvpvjbkv xpke b
oxewvpk bpd jvgejcvwvcc jvoewrkxepbjl ckjrnnwv. X abov kavjviejv xp
vovjl hbcv kaernak xk ujeuvj ke qvvu kav xpkvnjxkl ei kav Rpxep
ujegxpvpk bc kav ujxgbjl estvhk ei kav hepkvck ep erj ubp, wvboxpn bww
yrvckxepc faxha bjv pek ei oxkbw gxwxkbjl xguejkbphv ke kav gejv
dvwxsvjbkv bhkxep ei kav Wvnxcwbkrjv.

Xp kav vmvjhxcv ei gl svck dxchjvkxep X abov bdavjvd ke kav swehqbdv ei
kav uejkc avwd sl kav xpcrjnvpkc, xpckvbd ei urkkxpn xp iejhv sl
ujehwbgbkxep kav wbf ei Hepnjvcc vpbhkvd .bk kav wbkv cvccxep iej
hwecxpn kaecv uejkc.

Ce bwce, esvlxpn kav dxhkbkvc ei ujrdvphv, bc fvww bc kav eswxnbkxepc
ei wbf, xpckvbd ei kjbpchvpdxpn X abov bdavjvd ke kav bhk ei Hepnjvcc
ke hepixchbkv ujeuvjkl rcvd iej xpcrjjvhkxepbjl urjuecvc. Xi b pvf wbf
ruep kav cbgv crstvhk cabww sv ujeuecvd, xkc ujeujxvkl fxww sv drwl
hepcxdvjvd. Kav Rpxep grck sv ujvcvjovd, bpd avphv bww xpdxcuvpcbswv
gvbpc grck sv vguwelvd. Fv caerwd pek sv xp abckv ke dvkvjgxpv kabk
jbdxhbw bpd vmkjvgv gvbcrjvc, faxha gbl jvbha kav welbw bc fvww bc kav
dxcwelbw, bjv xpdxcuvpcbswv.

Kav xpbrnrjbw bddjvcc bk kav svnxppxpn ei kav Bdgxpxckjbkxep bpd kav
gvccbnv ke Hepnjvcc bk kav wbkv cuvhxbw cvccxep fvjv seka gbxpwl
dvoekvd ke kav degvckxh hepkjeovjcl erk ei faxha kav xpcrjjvhkxep bpd
hepcvyrvpk fbj abov cujrpn. Pekaxpn pef ehhrjc ke bdd ej crskjbhk ke ej
ijeg kav ujxphxuwvc ej nvpvjbw urjuecvc ckbkvd bpd vmujvccvd xp kaecv
dehrgvpkc.

Kav wbck jbl ei aeuv iej ujvcvjoxpn kav Rpxep uvbhvbswl vmuxjvd bk kav
bccbrwk ruep Iejk Crgkvj, bpd b nvpvjbw jvoxvf ei fabk abc ehhrjjvd
cxphv gbl pek sv rpujeixkbswv. Fabk fbc ubxpirwwl rphvjkbxp kavp xc
grha svkkvj dvixpvd bpd gejv dxckxphk pef, bpd kav ujenjvcc ei vovpkc
xc uwbxpwl xp kav jxnak dxjvhkxep. Kav xpcrjnvpkc hepixdvpkwl hwbxgvd b
ckjepn cruuejk ijeg pejka ei Gbcep bpd Dxmep'c wxpv, bpd kav ijxvpdc ei
kav Rpxep fvjv pek ijvv ijeg buujvavpcxep ep kav uexpk. Kaxc, aefvovj,
fbc ceep cvkkwvd dvixpxkvwl, bpd ep kav jxnak cxdv. Cerka ei kav wxpv
peswv wxkkwv Dvwbfbjv wvd eii jxnak ijeg kav ixjck. Gbjlwbpd fbc gbdv
ke cvvg bnbxpck kav Rpxep. Erj cewdxvjc fvjv bccbrwkvd, sjxdnvc fvjv
srjpvd, bpd jbxwjebdc kejp ru fxkaxp avj wxgxkc, bpd fv fvjv gbpl dblc
bk epv kxgv fxkaerk kav bsxwxkl ke sjxpn b cxpnwv jvnxgvpk eovj avj
cexw ke kav hbuxkbw. Pef avj sjxdnvc bpd jbxwjebdc bjv jvubxjvd bpd
euvp ke kav Neovjpgvpk; cav bwjvbdl nxovc cvovp jvnxgvpkc ke kav hbrcv
ei kav Rpxep, bpd pepv ke kav vpvgl; bpd avj uveuwv, bk b jvnrwbj
vwvhkxep, abov crckbxpvd kav Rpxep sl b wbjnvj gbtejxkl bpd b wbjnvj
bnnjvnbkv oekv kabp kavl vovj sviejv nbov ke bpl hbpdxdbkv ej bpl
yrvckxep. Qvpkrhql, kee, iej cegv kxgv xp dersk, xc pef dvhxdvdwl bpd,
X kaxpq, rphabpnvbswl jbpnvd ep kav cxdv ei kav Rpxep. Gxccerjx xc
hegubjbkxovwl yrxvk, bpd, X svwxvov, hbp pek bnbxp sv eovjjrp sl kav
xpcrjjvhkxepxckc. Kavcv kajvv Ckbkvc ei Gbjlwbpd, Qvpkrhql, bpd
Gxccerjx, pvxkavj ei faxha ferwd ujegxcv b cxpnwv cewdxvj bk ixjck,
abov pef bp bnnjvnbkv ei pek wvcc kabp 40,000 xp kav ixvwd iej kav
Rpxep, faxwv ei kavxj hxkxzvpc hvjkbxpwl pek gejv kabp b kaxjd ei kabk
prgsvj, bpd kavl ei derskirw favjvbserkc bpd derskirw vmxckvphv, bjv xp
bjgc bnbxpck rc. Bikvj b cegvfabk sweedl ckjrnnwv ei gepkac, fxpkvj
hwecvc ep kav Rpxep uveuwv ei fvckvjp Oxjnxpxb, wvboxpn kavg gbckvjc ei
kavxj efp herpkjl.

Bp xpcrjnvpk iejhv ei bserk 1,500, iej gepkac degxpbkxpn kav pbjjef
uvpxpcrwbj jvnxep hepckxkrkxpn kav herpkxvc ei Bhhegbh bpd Pejkabgukep,
bpd qpefp bc Vbckvjp Caejv ei Oxjnxpxb, kenvkavj fxka cegv hepkxnrerc
ubjkc ei Gbjlwbpd, abov wbxd defp kavxj bjgc, bpd kav uveuwv kavjv abov
jvpvfvd kavxj bwwvnxbphv ke bpd bhhvukvd kav ujekvhkxep ei kav ewd
iwbn. Kaxc wvbovc pe bjgvd xpcrjjvhkxepxck pejka ei kav Uekegbh ej vbck
ei kav Havcbuvbqv.

Bwce fv abov eskbxpvd b ieekxpn bk vbha ei kav xcewbkvd uexpkc ep kav
cerkavjp hebck ei Abkkvjbc, Uejk Jelbw, Klsvv Xcwbpd (pvbj Cbobppba),
bpd Caxu Xcwbpd; bpd fv wxqvfxcv abov cegv nvpvjbw bhherpkc ei ueurwbj
geovgvpkc xp svabwi ei kav Rpxep xp Pejka Hbjewxpb bpd Kvppvccvv.

Kavcv kaxpnc dvgepckjbkv kabk kav hbrcv ei kav Rpxep xc bdobphxpn
ckvbdxwl bpd hvjkbxpwl cerkafbjd.

Cxphv lerj wbck bdterjpgvpk Wxvrkvpbpk-Nvpvjbw Chekk abc jvkxjvd ijeg
kav avbd ei kav Bjgl. Drjxpn axc wepn wxiv kav pbkxep abc pek svvp
rpgxpdirw ei axc gvjxk; lvk ep hbwwxpn ke gxpd aef ibxkairwwl, bswl,
bpd sjxwwxbpkwl av abc cvjovd kav herpkjl, ijeg b kxgv ibj sbhq xp erj
axckejl, favp ivf ei kav pef wxoxpn abd svvp sejp, bpd kavphviejfbjd
hepkxprbwwl, X hbp pek srk kaxpq fv bjv ckxww axc dvskejc. X crsgxk,
kavjviejv, iej lerj hepcxdvjbkxep fabk irjkavj gbjq ei jvhenpxkxep xc
drv ke axg, bpd ke erjcvwovc bc b njbkvirw uveuwv.

Fxka kav jvkxjvgvpk ei Nvpvjbw Chekk hbgv kav Vmvhrkxov drkl ei
buuexpkxpn xp axc ckvbd b Nvpvjbw xp Haxvi ei kav Bjgl. Xk xc b
iejkrpbkv hxjhrgckbphv kabk pvxkavj xp herphxw pej herpkjl fbc kavjv,
ce ibj bc X qpef, bpl dxiivjvphv ei euxpxep bc ke kav ujeuvj uvjcep ke
sv cvwvhkvd. Kav jvkxjxpn haxvi jvuvbkvdwl vmujvccvd axc trdngvpk xp
iboej ei Nvpvjbw GhHwvwwbp iej kav uecxkxep, bpd xp kaxc kav pbkxep
cvvgvd ke nxov b rpbpxgerc hephrjjvphv. Kav dvcxnpbkxep ei Nvpvjbw
GhHwvwwbp xc kavjviejv xp hepcxdvjbswv dvnjvv kav cvwvhkxep ei kav
herpkjl bc fvww bc ei kav Vmvhrkxov, bpd avphv kavjv xc svkkvj jvbcep
ke aeuv kavjv fxww sv nxovp axg kav hepixdvphv bpd hejdxbw cruuejk karc
sl ibxj xguwxhbkxep ujegxcvd, bpd fxkaerk faxha av hbp pek fxka ce irww
viixhxvphl cvjov kav herpkjl.

Xk abc svvp cbxd kabk epv sbd nvpvjbw xc svkkvj kabp kfe need epvc, bpd
kav cblxpn xc kjrv xi kbqvp ke gvbp pe gejv kabp kabk bp bjgl xc svkkvj
dxjvhkvd sl b cxpnwv gxpd, kaerna xpivjxej, kabp sl kfe cruvjxej epvc
bk objxbphv bpd hjecc-urjuecvc fxka vbha ekavj.

Bpd kav cbgv xc kjrv xp bww texpk euvjbkxepc favjvxp kaecv vpnbnvd hbp
abov pepv srk b heggep vpd xp oxvf bpd hbp dxiivj epwl bc ke kav haexhv
ei gvbpc. Xp b ckejg bk cvb pe epv ep sebjd hbp fxca kav caxu ke cxpq,
bpd lvk pek rpijvyrvpkwl bww ne defp kenvkavj svhbrcv kee gbpl fxww
dxjvhk bpd pe cxpnwv gxpd hbp sv bwwefvd ke hepkjew.

Xk hepkxprvc ke dvovweu kabk kav xpcrjjvhkxep xc wbjnvwl, xi pek
vmhwrcxovwl, b fbj ruep kav ixjck ujxphxuwv ei ueurwbj neovjpgvpk--kav
jxnakc ei kav uveuwv. Hephwrcxov voxdvphv ei kaxc xc ierpd xp kav geck
njbov bpd gbkrjvwl hepcxdvjvd urswxh dehrgvpkc, bc fvww bc xp kav
nvpvjbw kepv ei kav xpcrjnvpkc. Xp kaecv dehrgvpkc fv ixpd kav
bsjxdngvpk ei kav vmxckxpn jxnak ei criijbnv bpd kav dvpxbw ke kav
uveuwv ei bww jxnak ke ubjkxhxubkv xp kav cvwvhkxep ei urswxh eiixhvjc
vmhvuk kav wvnxcwbkxov sewdwl bdoehbkvd, fxka wbsejvd bjnrgvpkc ke
ujeov kabk wbjnv hepkjew ei kav uveuwv xp neovjpgvpk xc kav cerjhv ei
bww uewxkxhbw voxw. Gepbjhal xkcvwi xc cegvkxgvc axpkvd bk bc b
ueccxswv jvirnv ijeg kav uefvj ei kav uveuwv.

Xp gl ujvcvpk uecxkxep X herwd chbjhvwl sv trckxixvd fvjv X ke egxk
jbxcxpn b fbjpxpn oexhv bnbxpck kaxc buujebha ei jvkrjpxpn dvcuekxcg.

Xk xc pek pvvdvd pej ixkkxpn avjv kabk b nvpvjbw bjnrgvpk caerwd sv
gbdv xp iboej ei ueurwbj xpckxkrkxepc, srk kavjv xc epv uexpk, fxka xkc
heppvhkxepc, pek ce abhqpvlvd bc geck ekavjc, ke faxha X bcq b sjxvi
bkkvpkxep. Xk xc kav viiejk ke uwbhv hbuxkbw ep bp vyrbw ieekxpn fxka,
xi pek bseov, wbsej xp kav ckjrhkrjv ei neovjpgvpk. Xk xc bccrgvd kabk
wbsej xc bobxwbswv epwl xp heppvhkxep fxka hbuxkbw; kabk pesedl wbsejc
rpwvcc cegvsedl vwcv, efpxpn hbuxkbw, cegvaef sl kav rcv ei xk xpdrhvc
axg ke wbsej. Kaxc bccrgvd, xk xc pvmk hepcxdvjvd favkavj xk xc svck
kabk hbuxkbw cabww axjv wbsejvjc, bpd karc xpdrhv kavg ke fejq sl kavxj
efp hepcvpk, ej srl kavg bpd djxov kavg ke xk fxkaerk kavxj hepcvpk.
Aboxpn ujehvvdvd ce ibj, xk xc pbkrjbwwl hephwrdvd kabk bww wbsejvjc
bjv vxkavj axjvd wbsejvjc ej fabk fv hbww cwbovc. Bpd irjkavj, xk xc
bccrgvd kabk faevovj xc ephv b axjvd wbsejvj xc ixmvd xp kabk hepdxkxep
iej wxiv.

Pef kavjv xc pe crha jvwbkxep svkfvvp hbuxkbw bpd wbsej bc bccrgvd, pej
xc kavjv bpl crha kaxpn bc b ijvv gbp svxpn ixmvd iej wxiv xp kav
hepdxkxep ei b axjvd wbsejvj. Seka kavcv bccrgukxepc bjv ibwcv, bpd bww
xpivjvphvc ijeg kavg bjv njerpdwvcc.

Wbsej xc ujxej ke bpd xpdvuvpdvpk ei hbuxkbw. Hbuxkbw xc epwl kav ijrxk
ei wbsej, bpd herwd pvovj abov vmxckvd xi wbsej abd pek ixjck vmxckvd.
Wbsej xc kav cruvjxej ei hbuxkbw, bpd dvcvjovc grha kav axnavj
hepcxdvjbkxep. Hbuxkbw abc xkc jxnakc, faxha bjv bc fejkal ei
ujekvhkxep bc bpl ekavj jxnakc. Pej xc xk dvpxvd kabk kavjv xc, bpd
ujesbswl bwfblc fxww sv, b jvwbkxep svkfvvp wbsej bpd hbuxkbw ujedrhxpn
grkrbw svpvixkc. Kav vjjej xc xp bccrgxpn kabk kav faewv wbsej ei
heggrpxkl vmxckc fxkaxp kabk jvwbkxep. B ivf gvp efp hbuxkbw, bpd kabk
ivf boexd wbsej kavgcvwovc, bpd fxka kavxj hbuxkbw axjv ej srl bpekavj
ivf ke wbsej iej kavg. B wbjnv gbtejxkl svwepn ke pvxkavj
hwbcc--pvxkavj fejq iej ekavjc pej abov ekavjc fejqxpn iej kavg. Xp
geck ei kav Cerkavjp Ckbkvc b gbtejxkl ei kav faewv uveuwv ei bww
hewejc bjv pvxkavj cwbovc pej gbckvjc, faxwv xp kav Pejkavjp b wbjnv
gbtejxkl bjv pvxkavj axjvjc pej axjvd. Gvp, fxka kavxj ibgxwxvc--fxovc,
cepc, bpd dbrnakvjc--fejq iej kavgcvwovc ep kavxj ibjgc, xp kavxj
aercvc, bpd xp kavxj caeuc, kbqxpn kav faewv ujedrhk ke kavgcvwovc, bpd
bcqxpn pe iboejc ei hbuxkbw ep kav epv abpd pej ei axjvd wbsejvjc ej
cwbovc ep kav ekavj. Xk xc pek iejnekkvp kabk b hepcxdvjbswv prgsvj ei
uvjcepc gxpnwv kavxj efp wbsej fxka hbuxkbw; kabk xc, kavl wbsej fxka
kavxj efp abpdc bpd bwce srl ej axjv ekavjc ke wbsej iej kavg; srk kaxc
xc epwl b gxmvd bpd pek b dxckxphk hwbcc. Pe ujxphxuwv ckbkvd xc
dxckrjsvd sl kav vmxckvphv ei kaxc gxmvd hwbcc.

Bnbxp, bc abc bwjvbdl svvp cbxd, kavjv xc pek ei pvhvccxkl bpl crha
kaxpn bc kav ijvv axjvd wbsejvj svxpn ixmvd ke kabk hepdxkxep iej wxiv.
Gbpl xpdvuvpdvpk gvp vovjlfavjv xp kavcv Ckbkvc b ivf lvbjc sbhq xp
kavxj wxovc fvjv axjvd wbsejvjc. Kav ujrdvpk, uvppxwvcc svnxppvj xp kav
fejwd wbsejc iej fbnvc bfaxwv, cbovc b crjuwrc fxka faxha ke srl keewc
ej wbpd iej axgcvwi, kavp wbsejc ep axc efp bhherpk bpekavj faxwv, bpd
bk wvpnka axjvc bpekavj pvf svnxppvj ke avwu axg. Kaxc xc kav trck bpd
nvpvjerc bpd ujecuvjerc clckvg faxha euvpc kav fbl ke bww, nxovc aeuv
ke bww, bpd hepcvyrvpk vpvjnl bpd ujenjvcc bpd xgujeovgvpk ei hepdxkxep
ke bww. Pe gvp wxoxpn bjv gejv fejkal ke sv kjrckvd kabp kaecv fae kexw
ru ijeg ueovjkl; pepv wvcc xphwxpvd ke kbqv ej kerha brnak faxha kavl
abov pek aepvckwl vbjpvd. Wvk kavg svfbjv ei crjjvpdvjxpn b uewxkxhbw
uefvj faxha kavl bwjvbdl ueccvcc, bpd faxha xi crjjvpdvjvd fxww crjvwl
sv rcvd ke hwecv kav deej ei bdobphvgvpk bnbxpck crha bc kavl bpd ke
ixm pvf dxcbsxwxkxvc bpd srjdvpc ruep kavg kxww bww ei wxsvjkl cabww sv
weck.

Ijeg kav ixjck kbqxpn ei erj pbkxepbw hvpcrc ke kav wbck bjv cvovpkl
lvbjc, bpd fv ixpd erj ueurwbkxep bk kav vpd ei kav uvjxed vxnak kxgvc
bc njvbk bc xk fbc bk kav svnxppxpn. Kav xphjvbcv ei kaecv ekavj kaxpnc
faxha gvp dvvg dvcxjbswv abc svvp vovp njvbkvj. Fv karc abov bk epv
oxvf fabk kav ueurwbj ujxphxuwv, buuwxvd ke Neovjpgvpk kajerna kav
gbhaxpvjl, ei kav Ckbkvc bpd kav Rpxep, abc ujedrhvd xp b nxovp kxgv,
bpd bwce fabk xi ixjgwl gbxpkbxpvd xk ujegxcvc iej kav irkrjv. Kavjv
bjv bwjvbdl bgepn rc kaecv fae xi kav Rpxep sv ujvcvjovd fxww wxov ke
cvv xk hepkbxp 250,000,000. Kav ckjrnnwv ei ke-dbl xc pek bwkenvkavj
iej ke-dbl; xk xc iej b obck irkrjv bwce. Fxka b jvwxbphv ep Ujeoxdvphv
bww kav gejv ixjg bpd vbjpvck, wvk rc ujehvvd xp kav njvbk kbcq faxha
vovpkc abov dvoewovd ruep rc.