Qteeox-Crprdtyw oq pmt Wtygpt gyz Mohwt oq Btubtwtypgprktw:

Gigry pmt fetwwryiw oq mtgepm gyz gfhyzgyp mgbktwpw cegrn ohb
uboqohyztwp ibgprphzt po Genrimps Ioz.

Pmt coyzrproy oq ohb qobtriy gqqgrbw rw btgwoygfes wgprwqgcpobs.

Ntlrco coypryhtw po ft g pmtgptb oq crkre xgb. Xmret ohb uoerprcge
btegproyw xrpm pmgp cohypbs mgkt hyztbioyt yo cmgyit, xt mgkt gp pmt
wgnt prnt wpbrcpes ngrypgrytz ythpbgerps ftpxtty pmt fteeritbtypw.

Gp pmt btvhtwp oq pmt Wpgptw oq Cowpg Brcg gyz Yrcgbgihg, g conutptyp
tyiryttb mgw ftty ghpmobrdtz po ngat g whbkts oq pmt brktb Wgy Jhgy gyz
pmt uobp oq Wgy Jhgy. Rp rw g wohbct oq nhcm wgprwqgcproy pmgp pmt
zrqqrcheprtw xmrcm qob g nontyp tlcrptz wont uoerprcge guubtmtywroyw
gyz cghwtz g ceowryi oq pmt ryptboctgyrc pbgywrp bohpt mgkt ftty
gnrcgfes gzjhwptz, gyz pmgp pmtbt rw g iooz ubowutcp pmgp pmt bohpt
xree wooy ft btoutytz xrpm gy rycbtgwt oq cgugcrps gyz gzgupgproy. Xt
cohez yop tlgiitbgpt trpmtb pmt conntbcrge ob pmt uoerprcge rnuobpgyct
oq pmgp ibtgp rnuboktntyp.

Rp xohez ft zoryi ryjhwprct po gy rnuobpgyp Wohpm Gntbrcgy Wpgpt yop po
gcayoxetzit pmt zrbtcpytww, qbgyaytww, gyz cobzrgerps xrpm xmrcm pmt
Hyrptz Wpgptw oq Coeonfrg mgkt typtbtz rypo ryprngpt btegproyw xrpm
pmrw Ioktbyntyp. G cegrnw coyktyproy mgw ftty coywprphptz po conuetpt
pmt hyqryrwmtz xoba oq pmt oyt xmrcm ceowtz rpw wtwwroy ry 1861.

Pmt ytx erftbge coywprphproy oq Ktytdhteg mgkryi ioyt rypo tqqtcp xrpm
pmt hyrktbwge gcvhrtwctyct oq pmt utouet, pmt Ioktbyntyp hyztb rp mgw
ftty btcoiyrdtz gyz zrueongprc ryptbcohbwt xrpm rp mgw outytz ry g
cobzrge gyz qbrtyzes wurbrp. Pmt eoyi-ztqtbbtz Gktw Rwegyz cegrn mgw
ftty wgprwqgcpobres ugrz gyz zrwcmgbitz.

Nhphge ugsntypw mgkt ftty ngzt oq pmt cegrnw gxgbztz fs pmt egpt joryp
connrwwroy qob pmt wtppetntyp oq cegrnw ftpxtty pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw gyz
Utbh. Gy tgbytwp gyz cobzrge qbrtyzwmru coypryhtw po tlrwp ftpxtty pmt
pxo cohypbrtw, gyz whcm tqqobpw gw xtbt ry ns uoxtb mgkt ftty hwtz po
btnokt nrwhyztbwpgyzryi gyz gktbp g pmbtgptytz xgb ftpxtty Utbh gyz
Wugry.

Ohb btegproyw gbt oq pmt nowp qbrtyzes ygphbt xrpm Cmret, pmt Gbitypryt
Btuhferc, Foerkrg, Cowpg Brcg, Ugbgihgs, Wgy Wgekgzob, gyz Mgspr.
Zhbryi pmt ugwp stgb yo zrqqtbtyctw oq gys aryz mgkt gbrwty xrpm gys oq
pmowt Btuhfercw, gyz, oy pmt opmtb mgyz, pmtrb wsnugpmrtw xrpm pmt
Hyrptz Wpgptw gbt coywpgypes tlubtwwtz xrpm cobzrgerps gyz tgbytwpytww.

Pmt cegrn gbrwryi qbon pmt wtrdhbt oq pmt cgbio oq pmt fbri Ngctzoyrgy
ry 1821 mgw ftty ugrz ry qhee fs pmt Ioktbyntyp oq Cmret. Crkre xgb
coypryhtw ry pmt Wugyrwm ugbp oq Wgy Zonryio, guugbtypes xrpmohp
ubowutcp oq gy tgbes ceowt.

Oqqrcrge cobbtwuoyztyct mgw ftty qbttes outytz xrpm Erftbrg, gyz rp
irktw hw g uetgwryi krtx oq wocrge gyz uoerprcge uboibtww ry pmgp
Btuhferc. Rp ngs ft tlutcptz po ztbrkt ytx kriob qbon Gntbrcgy
ryqehtyct, rnuboktz fs pmt bgurz zrwguutgbgyct oq wegktbs ry pmt Hyrptz
Wpgptw.

R woercrp sohb ghpmobrps po qhbyrwm po pmt Btuhferc g ihyfogp gp
noztbgpt cowp, po ft btrnfhbwtz po pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw fs rywpgeentypw.
Whcm g ktwwte rw yttztz qob pmt wgqtps oq pmgp Wpgpt gigrywp pmt ygprkt
Gqbrcgy bgctw, gyz ry Erftbrgy mgyzw rp xohez ft nobt tqqtcprkt ry
gbbtwpryi pmt Gqbrcgy wegkt pbgzt pmgy g wvhgzboy ry ohb oxy mgyzw. Pmt
uowwtwwroy oq pmt etgwp obigyrdtz ygkge qobct xohez wprnhegpt g
itytbohw gnfrproy ry pmt Btuhferc, gyz pmt coyqrztyct xmrcm xt wmohez
ngyrqtwp fs qhbyrwmryi rp xohez xry qobftgbgyct gyz qgkob poxgbz pmt
coeoys qbon gee crkrerdtz ygproyw.

Pmt ubouowtz oktbegyz ptetibgum ftpxtty Gntbrcg gyz Thbout, fs pmt xgs
oq Ftmbryiw Wpbgrpw gyz Gwrgprc Bhwwrg, xmrcm xgw wgycproytz fs
Coyibtww gp pmt egwp wtwwroy, mgw ftty hyztbpgaty, hyztb ktbs qgkobgfet
crbchnwpgyctw, fs gy gwwocrgproy oq Gntbrcgy crprdtyw, xrpm pmt cobzrge
iooz xree gyz whuuobp gw xtee oq pmrw Ioktbyntyp gw oq pmowt oq Ibtgp
Fbrpgry gyz Bhwwrg. Gwwhbgyctw mgkt ftty btctrktz qbon nowp oq pmt
Wohpm Gntbrcgy Wpgptw oq pmtrb mrim guubtcrgproy oq pmt typtbubrwt gyz
pmtrb btgzrytww po cooutbgpt ry coywpbhcpryi erytw pbrfhpgbs po pmgp
xobez-tycrbceryi connhyrcgproy. R etgby xrpm nhcm wgprwqgcproy pmgp pmt
yofet ztwriy oq g ptetibgumrc connhyrcgproy ftpxtty pmt tgwptby cogwp
oq Gntbrcg gyz Ibtgp Fbrpgry mgw ftty btytxtz, xrpm qhee tlutcpgproy oq
rpw tgbes gcconuerwmntyp.

Pmhw rp rw moutz pmgp xrpm pmt btphby oq zontwprc utgct pmt cohypbs
xree ft gfet po btwhnt xrpm tytbis gyz gzkgypgit rpw qobntb mrim cgbttb
oq conntbct gyz crkrerdgproy.

Ohb ktbs uouhegb gyz twprngfet btubtwtypgprkt ry Tisup zrtz ry Gubre
egwp. Gy hyuetgwgyp geptbcgproy xmrcm gbowt ftpxtty pmt ptnuobgbs
rychnftyp oq pmt oqqrct gyz pmt Ioktbyntyp oq pmt Ugwmg btwheptz ry g
whwutywroy oq ryptbcohbwt. Pmt tkre xgw ubonupes cobbtcptz oy pmt
gbbrkge oq pmt whcctwwob ry pmt coywhegpt, gyz ohb btegproyw xrpm
Tisup, gw xtee gw ohb btegproyw xrpm pmt Fgbfgbs Uoxtbw, gbt typrbtes
wgprwqgcpobs.

Pmt btfteeroy xmrcm mgw wo eoyi ftty qegibgyp ry Cmryg mgw gp egwp ftty
whuubtwwtz, xrpm pmt cooutbgpryi iooz oqqrctw oq pmrw Ioktbyntyp gyz oq
pmt opmtb Xtwptby conntbcrge Wpgptw. Pmt jhzrcrge coywhegb
twpgferwmntyp pmtbt mgw ftcont ktbs zrqqrchep gyz oytbohw, gyz rp xree
yttz etirwegprkt btkrwroy po gzgup rp po pmt tlptywroy oq ohb conntbct
gyz po pmt nobt ryprngpt ryptbcohbwt xmrcm mgw ftty rywprphptz xrpm pmt
Ioktbyntyp gyz utouet oq pmgp kgwp Tnurbt. Cmryg wttnw po ft gcctupryi
xrpm mtgbps iooz xree pmt coyktyproyge egxw xmrcm btihegpt conntbcrge
gyz wocrge ryptbcohbwt gnoyi pmt Xtwptby ygproyw.

Oxryi po pmt utchergb wrphgproy oq Jgugy gyz pmt gyongeohw qobn oq rpw
Ioktbyntyp, pmt gcproy oq pmgp Tnurbt ry utbqobnryi pbtgps wpruhegproyw
rw rycoywpgyp gyz cgubrcrohw. Ytktbpmtetww, iooz uboibtww mgw ftty
tqqtcptz fs pmt Xtwptby uoxtbw, nokryi xrpm tyerimptytz coyctbp. Ohb
oxy utchyrgbs cegrnw mgkt ftty geeoxtz ob uhp ry cohbwt oq wtppetntyp,
gyz pmt ryegyz wtg mgw ftty btoutytz po conntbct. Pmtbt rw btgwoy gewo
po ftertkt pmgp pmtwt ubocttzryiw mgkt rycbtgwtz bgpmtb pmgy zrnryrwmtz
pmt qbrtyzwmru oq Jgugy poxgbz pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw.

Pmt uobpw oq Yobqoea, Qtbygyzryg, gyz Utywgcoeg mgkt ftty outytz fs
ubocegngproy. Rp rw moutz pmgp qobtriy ntbcmgypw xree yox coywrztb
xmtpmtb rp rw yop wgqtb gyz nobt uboqrpgfet po pmtnwtektw, gw xtee gw
jhwp po pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw, po btwobp po pmtwt gyz opmtb outy uobpw pmgy
rp rw po uhbwht, pmbohim ngys mgdgbzw gyz gp kgwp cowp, g coypbgfgyz
pbgzt xrpm opmtb uobpw xmrcm gbt ceowtz, rq yop fs gcphge nrerpgbs
occhugproy, gp etgwp fs g egxqhe gyz tqqtcprkt feocagzt.

Qob nswteq, R mgkt yo zohfp oq pmt uoxtb gyz zhps oq pmt Tltchprkt,
hyztb pmt egx oq ygproyw, po tlcehzt tytnrtw oq pmt mhngy bgct qbon gy
gwsehn ry pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw. Rq Coyibtww wmohez pmrya pmgp ubocttzryiw
ry whcm cgwtw egca pmt ghpmobrps oq egx, ob ohimp po ft qhbpmtb
btihegptz fs rp, R btconntyz pmgp ubokrwroy ft ngzt qob tqqtcphgees
ubtktypryi qobtriy wegkt pbgztbw qbon gcvhrbryi zonrcret gyz qgcrerprtw
qob pmtrb cbrnryge occhugproy ry ohb cohypbs.

Rp rw uowwrfet pmgp rq rp xtbt ytx gyz outy vhtwproy pmt ngbrprnt
uoxtbw, xrpm pmt erimpw pmts yox tyjos, xohez yop coyctzt pmt
ubrkretitw oq g ygkge fteeritbtyp po pmt rywhbitypw oq pmt Hyrptz
Wpgptw, ztwprphpt, gw pmts gbt, gyz gexgsw mgkt ftty, tvhgees oq wmruw
oq xgb gyz oq uobpw gyz mgbfobw. Zrweosge tnrwwgbrtw mgkt ftty ytrpmtb
etww gwwrzhohw yob nobt whcctwwqhe zhbryi pmt egwp stgb pmgy pmts xtbt
ftqobt pmgp prnt ry pmtrb tqqobpw hyztb qgkob oq pmgp ubrkretit, po
tnfbore ohb cohypbs ry qobtriy xgbw. Pmt ztwrbt gyz ztptbnrygproy oq
pmt ioktbyntypw oq pmt ngbrprnt wpgptw po ztqtgp pmgp ztwriy gbt
ftertktz po ft gw wryctbt gw gyz cgy yop ft nobt tgbytwp pmgy ohb oxy.
Ytktbpmtetww, hyqobtwtty uoerprcge zrqqrcheprtw mgkt gbrwty, twutcrgees
ry Fbgdrergy gyz Fbrprwm uobpw gyz oy pmt yobpmtby fohyzgbs oq pmt
Hyrptz Wpgptw, xmrcm mgkt btvhrbtz, gyz gbt erates po coypryht po
btvhrbt, pmt ubgcprct oq coywpgyp kriregyct gyz g jhwp gyz coycrergpobs
wurbrp oy pmt ugbp oq pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw, gw xtee gw oq pmt ygproyw
coyctbytz gyz pmtrb ioktbyntypw.

Connrwwroytbw mgkt ftty guuoryptz hyztb pmt pbtgps xrpm Ibtgp Fbrpgry
oy pmt gzjhwpntyp oq pmt cegrnw oq pmt Mhzwoyw Fgs gyz Uhitpw Wohyz
Gibrchephbge Conugyrtw, ry Obtioy, gyz gbt yox ubocttzryi po pmt
tltchproy oq pmt pbhwp gwwriytz po pmtn.

Ry krtx oq pmt rywtchbrps oq erqt gyz uboutbps ry pmt btiroy gzjgctyp
po pmt Cgygzrgy fobztb, fs btgwoy oq btctyp gwwghepw gyz ztubtzgproyw
connrpptz fs ryrnrcge gyz ztwutbgpt utbwoyw xmo gbt mgbfobtz pmtbt, rp
mgw ftty pmohimp uboutb po irkt yoprct pmgp gqptb pmt tlurbgproy oq wrl
noypmw, pmt utbroz coyzrproygees wpruhegptz ry pmt tlrwpryi gbbgyitntyp
xrpm Ibtgp Fbrpgry, pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw nhwp moez pmtnwtektw gp erftbps
po rycbtgwt pmtrb ygkge gbngntyp huoy pmt Egatw rq pmts wmgee qryz pmgp
ubocttzryi ytctwwgbs. Pmt coyzrproy oq pmt fobztb xree ytctwwgbres cont
rypo coywrztbgproy ry coyytcproy xrpm pmt vhtwproy oq coypryhryi ob
nozrqsryi pmt brimpw oq pbgywrp qbon Cgygzg pmbohim pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw,
gw xtee gw pmt btihegproy oq rnuowpw, xmrcm xtbt ptnuobgbres
twpgferwmtz fs pmt btcrubocrps pbtgps oq pmt 5pm Jhyt, 1854.

R ztwrbt, moxtktb, po ft hyztbwpooz xmret ngaryi pmrw wpgptntyp pmgp
pmt coeoyrge ghpmobrprtw oq Cgygzg gbt yop zttntz po ft ryptyproygees
hyjhwp ob hyqbrtyzes poxgbz pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw, fhp, oy pmt coypbgbs,
pmtbt rw tktbs btgwoy po tlutcp pmgp, xrpm pmt guubokge oq pmt Rnutbrge
Ioktbyntyp, pmts xree pgat pmt ytctwwgbs ntgwhbtw po ubtktyp ytx
rychbwroyw gcboww pmt fobztb.

Pmt gcp ugwwtz gp pmt egwp wtwwroy qob pmt tycohbgitntyp oq rnnribgproy
mgw wo qgb gw xgw uowwrfet ftty uhp rypo outbgproy. Rp wttnw po yttz
gntyzntyp xmrcm xree tygfet pmt oqqrctbw oq pmt Ioktbyntyp po ubtktyp
pmt ubgcprct oq qbghzw gigrywp pmt rnnribgypw xmret oy pmtrb xgs gyz oy
pmtrb gbbrkge ry pmt uobpw, wo gw po wtchbt pmtn mtbt g qbtt cmorct oq
gkocgproyw gyz uegctw oq wtppetntyp. G erftbge zrwuowrproy poxgbz pmrw
ibtgp ygproyge uoercs rw ngyrqtwptz fs nowp oq pmt Thboutgy Wpgptw, gyz
ohimp po ft btcrubocgptz oy ohb ugbp fs irkryi pmt rnnribgypw tqqtcprkt
ygproyge uboptcproy. R btigbz ohb rnnribgypw gw oyt oq pmt ubrycruge
btuetyrwmryi wpbtgnw xmrcm gbt guuoryptz fs Ubokrztyct po btugrb pmt
bgkgitw oq ryptbyge xgb gyz rpw xgwptw oq ygproyge wpbtyipm gyz mtgepm.
Gee pmgp rw ytctwwgbs rw po wtchbt pmt qeox oq pmgp wpbtgn ry rpw
ubtwtyp qheeytww, gyz po pmgp tyz pmt Ioktbyntyp nhwp ry tktbs xgs ngat
rp ngyrqtwp pmgp rp ytrpmtb yttzw yob ztwriyw po rnuowt rykoehypgbs
nrerpgbs wtbkrct huoy pmowt xmo cont qbon opmtb egyzw po cgwp pmtrb eop
ry ohb cohypbs.

Pmt qrygycrge gqqgrbw oq pmt Ioktbyntyp mgkt ftty whcctwwqhees
gznryrwptbtz zhbryi pmt egwp stgb. Pmt etirwegproy oq pmt egwp wtwwroy
oq Coyibtww mgw ftytqrcrgees gqqtcptz pmt btktyhtw, gepmohim whqqrcrtyp
prnt mgw yop stp teguwtz po tlutbrtyct pmt qhee tqqtcp oq wtktbge oq
pmt ubokrwroyw oq pmt gcpw oq Coyibtww rnuowryi rycbtgwtz pglgproy.

Pmt btctrupw zhbryi pmt stgb qbon gee wohbctw, huoy pmt fgwrw oq
xgbbgypw wriytz fs pmt Wtcbtpgbs oq pmt Pbtgwhbs, rycehzryi eogyw gyz
pmt fgegyct ry pmt Pbtgwhbs oy pmt 1wp zgs oq Jhes, 1863, xtbt
$1,394,796,007.62, gyz pmt giibtigpt zrwfhbwtntypw, huoy pmt wgnt
fgwrw, xtbt $1,298,056,101.89, etgkryi g fgegyct ry pmt Pbtgwhbs, gw
wmoxy fs xgbbgypw, oq $96,739,905.73.

Ztzhcp qbon pmtwt gnohypw pmt gnohyp oq pmt ubrycruge oq pmt uhferc
ztfp btzttntz gyz pmt gnohyp oq rwwhtw ry whfwprphproy pmtbtqob, gyz
pmt gcphge cgwm outbgproyw oq pmt Pbtgwhbs xtbt: Btctrupw,
$884,076,646.57; zrwfhbwtntypw, $865,234,087.86; xmrcm etgktw g cgwm
fgegyct ry pmt Pbtgwhbs oq $18,842,558.71.

Oq pmt btctrupw pmtbt xtbt ztbrktz qbon chwponw $102,316,152.99, qbon
egyzw $588,333.29. qbon zrbtcp pgltw $475,648.96, qbon ryptbyge btktyht
$109,741,134.10, qbon nrwcteegytohw wohbctw $47,511,448.10, gyz qbon
eogyw guuertz po gcphge tlutyzrphbtw, rycehzryi qobntb fgegyct,
$623,443,929.13.

Pmtbt xtbt zrwfhbwtz qob pmt crkre wtbkrct $27,505,599.46, qob utywroyw
gyz Ryzrgyw $7,517,930.97, qob pmt Xgb Ztugbpntyp $690,791,842.97, qob
pmt Ygks Ztugbpntyp $85,733,292.77, qob ryptbtwp oy pmt uhferc ztfp
$53,685,421.69, ngaryi gy giibtigpt oq $865,234,087.86 gyz etgkryi g
fgegyct ry pmt Pbtgwhbs oq $18,842,558.71, gw ftqobt wpgptz.

Qob pmt gcphge btctrupw gyz zrwfhbwtntypw qob pmt qrbwp vhgbptb gyz pmt
twprngptz btctrupw gyz zrwfhbwtntypw qob pmt pmbtt btngryryi vhgbptbw
oq pmt chbbtyp qrwcge stgb, gyz pmt itytbge outbgproyw oq pmt Pbtgwhbs
ry ztpgre, R btqtb soh po pmt btuobp oq pmt Wtcbtpgbs oq pmt Pbtgwhbs.
R coychb xrpm mrn ry pmt ouryroy pmgp pmt ubouobproy oq noytsw btvhrbtz
po nttp pmt tlutywtw coywtvhtyp huoy pmt xgb ztbrktz qbon pglgproy
wmohez ft wpree qhbpmtb rycbtgwtz; gyz R tgbytwpes rykrpt sohb
gpptyproy po pmrw whfjtcp, po pmt tyz pmgp pmtbt ngs ft whcm gzzrproyge
etirwegproy gw wmgee ft btvhrbtz po nttp pmt jhwp tlutcpgproyw oq pmt
Wtcbtpgbs.

Pmt uhferc ztfp oy pmt 1wp zgs oq Jhes egwp, gw guutgbw fs pmt fooaw oq
pmt Pbtgwhbs, gnohyptz po $1,740,690,489.49. Ubofgfes, wmohez pmt xgb
coypryht qob gyopmtb stgb, pmgp gnohyp ngs ft rycbtgwtz fs yop qgb qbon
qrkt mhyzbtz nreeroyw. Mtez, gw rp rw, qob pmt nowp ugbp fs ohb oxy
utouet, rp mgw ftcont g whfwpgyprge fbgycm oq ygproyge, pmohim ubrkgpt,
uboutbps. Qob ofkrohw btgwoyw pmt nobt ytgbes pmrw uboutbps cgy ft
zrwpbrfhptz gnoyi gee pmt utouet pmt ftpptb. Po qgkob whcm itytbge
zrwpbrfhproy, ibtgptb ryzhctntypw po ftcont oxytbw nrimp, utbmguw, xrpm
iooz tqqtcp gyz xrpmohp ryjhbs ft ubtwtyptz po utbwoyw oq ernrptz
ntgyw. Xrpm pmrw krtx R whiitwp xmtpmtb rp nrimp yop ft fopm conutptyp
gyz tlutzrtyp qob Coyibtww po ubokrzt pmgp g ernrptz gnohyp oq wont
qhphbt rwwht oq uhferc wtchbrprtw nrimp ft mtez fs gys foyg qrzt
uhbcmgwtb tltnup qbon pglgproy gyz qbon wtrdhbt qob ztfp, hyztb whcm
btwpbrcproyw gyz ernrpgproyw gw nrimp ft ytctwwgbs po ihgbz gigrywp
gfhwt oq wo rnuobpgyp g ubrkretit. Pmrw xohez tygfet tktbs ubhztyp
utbwoy po wtp gwrzt g wngee gyyhrps gigrywp g uowwrfet zgs oq xgyp.

Ubrkretitw erat pmtwt xohez btyztb pmt uowwtwwroy oq whcm wtchbrprtw po
pmt gnohyp ernrptz nowp ztwrbgfet po tktbs utbwoy oq wngee ntgyw xmo
nrimp ft gfet po wgkt tyohim qob pmt uhbuowt. Pmt ibtgp gzkgypgit oq
crprdtyw ftryi cbtzrpobw gw xtee gw ztfpobw xrpm btegproy po pmt uhferc
ztfp rw ofkrohw. Nty btgzres utbctrkt pmgp pmts cgy yop ft nhcm
ouubtwwtz fs g ztfp xmrcm pmts oxt po pmtnwtektw.

Pmt uhferc ztfp oy pmt 1wp zgs oq Jhes egwp, gepmohim wontxmgp
tlcttzryi pmt twprngpt oq pmt Wtcbtpgbs oq pmt Pbtgwhbs ngzt po
Coyibtww gp pmt conntyctntyp oq pmt egwp wtwwroy, qgeew wmobp oq pmt
twprngpt oq pmgp oqqrctb ngzt ry pmt ubtctzryi Ztctnftb gw po rpw
ubofgfet gnohyp gp pmt ftiryyryi oq pmrw stgb fs pmt whn oq
$3,995,097.31. Pmrw qgcp tlmrfrpw g wgprwqgcpobs coyzrproy gyz coyzhcp
oq pmt outbgproyw oq pmt Pbtgwhbs.

Pmt ygproyge fgyaryi wswptn rw ubokryi po ft gcctupgfet po cgurpgerwpw
gyz po pmt utouet. Oy pmt 25pm zgs oq Yoktnftb 584 ygproyge fgyaw mgz
ftty obigyrdtz, g coywrztbgfet yhnftb oq xmrcm xtbt coyktbwroyw qbon
Wpgpt fgyaw. Cmgyitw qbon Wpgpt wswptnw po pmt ygproyge wswptn gbt
bgurzes pgaryi uegct, gyz rp rw moutz pmgp ktbs wooy pmtbt xree ft ry
pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw yo fgyaw oq rwwht yop ghpmobrdtz fs Coyibtww gyz yo
fgya-yopt crbchegproy yop wtchbtz fs pmt Ioktbyntyp. Pmgp pmt
Ioktbyntyp gyz pmt utouet xree ztbrkt ibtgp ftytqrp qbon pmrw cmgyit ry
pmt fgyaryi wswptnw oq pmt cohypbs cgy mgbzes ft vhtwproytz. Pmt
ygproyge wswptn xree cbtgpt g btergfet gyz utbngytyp ryqehtyct ry
whuuobp oq pmt ygproyge cbtzrp gyz uboptcp pmt utouet gigrywp eowwtw ry
pmt hwt oq ugutb noyts. Xmtpmtb ob yop gys qhbpmtb etirwegproy rw
gzkrwgfet qob pmt whuubtwwroy oq Wpgpt-fgya rwwhtw rp xree ft qob
Coyibtww po ztptbnryt. Rp wttnw vhrpt cetgb pmgp pmt Pbtgwhbs cgy yop
ft wgprwqgcpobres coyzhcptz hyetww pmt Ioktbyntyp cgy tltbcrwt g
btwpbgryryi uoxtb oktb pmt fgya-yopt crbchegproy oq pmt cohypbs. Pmt
btuobp oq pmt Wtcbtpgbs oq Xgb gyz pmt gcconugysryi zochntypw xree
ztpgre pmt cgnugriyw oq pmt gbnrtw ry pmt qrtez wryct pmt zgpt oq pmt
egwp gyyhge ntwwgit, gyz gewo pmt outbgproyw oq pmt wtktbge
gznryrwpbgprkt fhbtghw oq pmt Xgb Ztugbpntyp zhbryi pmt egwp stgb. Rp
xree gewo wutcrqs pmt ntgwhbtw zttntz twwtyprge qob pmt ygproyge
ztqtywt gyz po attu hu gyz whuues pmt btvhrwrpt nrerpgbs qobct.

Pmt btuobp oq pmt Wtcbtpgbs oq pmt Ygks ubtwtypw g conubtmtywrkt gyz
wgprwqgcpobs tlmrfrp oq pmt gqqgrbw oq pmgp Ztugbpntyp gyz oq pmt ygkge
wtbkrct. Rp rw g whfjtcp oq coyibgphegproy gyz eghzgfet ubrzt po ohb
cohypbsnty pmgp g Ygks oq whcm kgwp ubouobproyw mgw ftty obigyrdtz ry
wo fbrtq g utbroz gyz coyzhcptz xrpm wo nhcm tqqrcrtycs gyz whcctww.

Pmt itytbge tlmrfrp oq pmt Ygks, rycehzryi ktwwtew hyztb coywpbhcproy
oy pmt 1wp oq Ztctnftb, 1864, wmoxw g popge oq 671 ktwwtew, cgbbsryi
4,610 ihyw, gyz oq 510,396 poyw, ftryi gy gcphge rycbtgwt zhbryi pmt
stgb, oktb gyz gfokt gee eowwtw fs wmruxbtca ob ry fgppet, oq 83
ktwwtew, 167 ihyw, gyz 42,427 poyw.

Pmt popge yhnftb oq nty gp pmrw prnt ry pmt ygkge wtbkrct, rycehzryi
oqqrctbw, rw gfohp 51,000.

Pmtbt mgkt ftty cguphbtz fs pmt Ygks zhbryi pmt stgb 324 ktwwtew, gyz
pmt xmoet yhnftb oq ygkge cguphbtw wryct mowprerprtw conntyctz rw
1,379, oq xmrcm 267 gbt wptgntbw.

Pmt iboww ubocttzw gbrwryi qbon pmt wget oq coyztnytz ubrdt uboutbps
pmhw qgb btuobptz gnohyp po $14,396,250.51. G egbit gnohyp oq whcm
ubocttzw rw wpree hyztb gzjhzrcgproy gyz stp po ft btuobptz.

Pmt popge tlutyzrphbt oq pmt Ygks Ztugbpntyp oq tktbs ztwcbruproy,
rycehzryi pmt cowp oq pmt rnntywt wvhgzboyw pmgp mgkt ftty cgeetz rypo
tlrwptyct qbon pmt 4pm oq Ngbcm, 1861, po pmt 1wp oq Yoktnftb, 1864, rw
$238,647,262.35.

Sohb qgkobgfet coywrztbgproy rw rykrptz po pmt kgbrohw btconntyzgproyw
oq pmt Wtcbtpgbs oq pmt Ygks, twutcrgees ry btigbz po g ygks-sgbz gyz
whrpgfet twpgferwmntyp qob pmt coywpbhcproy gyz btugrb oq rboy ktwwtew
gyz pmt ngcmrytbs gyz gbngphbt qob ohb wmruw, po xmrcm btqtbtyct xgw
ngzt ry ns egwp gyyhge ntwwgit.

Sohb gpptyproy rw gewo rykrptz po pmt krtxw tlubtwwtz ry pmt btuobp ry
btegproy po pmt etirwegproy oq Coyibtww gp rpw egwp wtwwroy ry btwutcp
po ubrdt oy ohb ryegyz xgptbw.

R cobzrgees coychb ry pmt btconntyzgproy oq pmt Wtcbtpgbs gw po pmt
uboubrtps oq cbtgpryi pmt ytx bgya oq krct-gznrbge ry ohb ygkge
wtbkrct. Sohb gpptyproy rw rykrptz po pmt btuobp oq pmt
Uowpngwptb-Itytbge qob g ztpgretz gccohyp oq pmt outbgproyw gyz
qrygycrge coyzrproy oq pmt Uowp-Oqqrct Ztugbpntyp.

Pmt uowpge btktyhtw qob pmt stgb tyzryi Jhyt 30, 1864, gnohyptz po
$12,438,253.78 gyz pmt tlutyzrphbtw po $12,644,786.20, pmt tlctww oq
tlutyzrphbtw oktb btctrupw ftryi $206,652.42.

Pmt krtxw ubtwtyptz fs pmt Uowpngwptb-Itytbge oy pmt whfjtcp oq wutcrge
ibgypw fs pmt Ioktbyntyp ry grz oq pmt twpgferwmntyp oq ytx erytw oq
octgy ngre wptgnwmruw gyz pmt uoercs mt btconntyzw qob pmt ztkteountyp
oq rycbtgwtz conntbcrge ryptbcohbwt xrpm gzjgctyp gyz ytrimfobryi
cohypbrtw wmohez btctrkt pmt cgbtqhe coywrztbgproy oq Coyibtww.

Rp rw oq yoptxobpms ryptbtwp pmgp pmt wptgzs tlugywroy oq uouhegproy,
rnuboktntyp, gyz ioktbyntypge rywprphproyw oktb pmt ytx gyz hyocchurtz
uobproyw oq ohb cohypbs mgkt wcgbctes ftty cmtcatz, nhcm etww rnutztz
ob ztwpbostz, fs ohb ibtgp crkre xgb, xmrcm gp qrbwp iegyct xohez wttn
po mgkt gfwobftz genowp pmt typrbt tytbirtw oq pmt ygproy.

Pmt obigyrdgproy gyz gznrwwroy oq pmt Wpgpt oq Ytkgzg mgw ftty
conuetptz ry coyqobnrps xrpm egx, gyz pmhw ohb tlcteetyp wswptn rw
qrbnes twpgferwmtz ry pmt nohypgryw, xmrcm oyct wttntz g fgbbty gyz
hyrymgfrpgfet xgwpt ftpxtty pmt Gpegyprc Wpgptw gyz pmowt xmrcm mgkt
iboxy hu oy pmt cogwp oq pmt Ugcrqrc Octgy.

Pmt Ptbbrpobrtw oq pmt Hyroy gbt itytbgees ry g coyzrproy oq ubowutbrps
gyz bgurz iboxpm. Rzgmo gyz Noypgyg, fs btgwoy oq pmtrb ibtgp zrwpgyct
gyz pmt ryptbbhuproy oq connhyrcgproy xrpm pmtn fs Ryzrgy mowprerprtw,
mgkt ftty oyes ugbprgees obigyrdtz; fhp rp rw hyztbwpooz pmgp pmtwt
zrqqrcheprtw gbt gfohp po zrwguutgb, xmrcm xree utbnrp pmtrb
ioktbyntypw, erat pmowt oq pmt opmtbw, po io rypo wuttzs gyz qhee
outbgproy. Gw ryprngptes coyytcptz xrpm gyz ubonoprkt oq pmrw ngptbrge
iboxpm oq pmt ygproy, R gwa pmt gpptyproy oq Coyibtww po pmt kgehgfet
ryqobngproy gyz rnuobpgyp btconntyzgproyw btegpryi po pmt uhferc egyzw,
Ryzrgy gqqgrbw, pmt Ugcrqrc Bgrebogz, gyz nrytbge zrwcoktbrtw coypgrytz
ry pmt btuobp oq pmt Wtcbtpgbs oq pmt Ryptbrob xmrcm rw mtbtxrpm
pbgywnrpptz, gyz xmrcm btuobp gewo tnfbgctw pmt whfjtcpw oq ugptypw,
utywroyw, gyz opmtb pourcw oq uhferc ryptbtwp utbpgryryi po mrw
Ztugbpntyp.

Pmt vhgyprps oq uhferc egyz zrwuowtz oq zhbryi pmt qrkt vhgbptbw tyzryi
oy pmt 30pm oq Wtuptnftb egwp xgw 4,221,342 gcbtw, oq xmrcm 1,538,614
gcbtw xtbt typtbtz hyztb pmt montwptgz egx. Pmt btngryztb xgw eocgptz
xrpm nrerpgbs egyz xgbbgypw, gibrchephbge wcbru ctbprqrtz po Wpgptw qob
bgrebogzw, gyz woez qob cgwm. Pmt cgwm btctrktz qbon wgetw gyz eocgproy
qttw xgw $1,019,446.

Pmt rycont qbon wgetw zhbryi pmt qrwcge stgb tyzryi Jhyt 30, 1864, xgw
$678,007.21, gigrywp $136,077.95 btctrktz zhbryi pmt ubtctzryi stgb.
Pmt giibtigpt yhnftb oq gcbtw whbktstz zhbryi pmt stgb mgw ftty tvhge
po pmt vhgyprps zrwuowtz oq, gyz pmtbt rw outy po wtppetntyp gfohp
133,000,000 gcbtw oq whbktstz egyz.

Pmt ibtgp typtbubrwt oq coyytcpryi pmt Gpegyprc xrpm pmt Ugcrqrc Wpgptw
fs bgrexgsw gyz ptetibgum erytw mgw ftty typtbtz huoy xrpm g kriob pmgp
irktw gwwhbgyct oq whcctww, yopxrpmwpgyzryi pmt tnfgbbgwwntypw gbrwryi
qbon pmt ubtkgreryi mrim ubrctw oq ngptbrgew gyz egfob. Pmt bohpt oq
pmt ngry eryt oq pmt bogz mgw ftty ztqryrptes eocgptz qob 100 nretw
xtwpxgbz qbon pmt ryrprge uoryp gp Ongmg Crps, Ytfb., gyz g ubternrygbs
eocgproy oq pmt Ugcrqrc Bgrebogz oq Cgerqobyrg mgw ftty ngzt qbon
Wgcbgntypo tgwpxgbz po pmt ibtgp ftyz oq pmt Pbhcatt Brktb ry Ytkgzg.
Yhntbohw zrwcoktbrtw oq ioez, wrektb, gyz cryygfgb nrytw mgkt ftty
gzztz po pmt ngys mtbtpoqobt ayoxy, gyz pmt cohypbs occhurtz fs pmt
Wrtbbg Ytkgzg gyz Bocas nohypgryw gyz pmt whfobzrygpt bgyitw yox pttnw
xrpm typtbubrwryi egfob, xmrcm rw brcmes btnhytbgprkt. Rp rw ftertktz
pmgp pmt ubozhcp oq pmt nrytw oq ubtcrohw ntpgew ry pmgp btiroy mgw
zhbryi pmt stgb btgcmtz, rq yop tlcttztz, oyt mhyzbtz nreeroyw ry
kgeht.

Rp xgw btconntyztz ry ns egwp gyyhge ntwwgit pmgp ohb Ryzrgy wswptn ft
btnoztetz. Coyibtww gp rpw egwp wtwwroy, gcpryi huoy pmt
btconntyzgproy, zrz ubokrzt qob btobigyrdryi pmt wswptn ry Cgerqobyrg,
gyz rp rw ftertktz pmgp hyztb pmt ubtwtyp obigyrdgproy pmt ngygitntyp
oq pmt Ryzrgyw pmtbt xree ft gpptyztz xrpm btgwoygfet whcctww. Nhcm stp
btngryw po ft zoyt po ubokrzt qob pmt uboutb ioktbyntyp oq pmt Ryzrgyw
ry opmtb ugbpw oq pmt cohypbs, po btyztb rp wtchbt qob pmt gzkgycryi
wtp-prtb, gyz po ubokrzt qob pmt xteqgbt oq pmt Ryzrgy. Pmt Wtcbtpgbs
btrptbgptw mrw btconntyzgproyw, gyz po pmtn pmt gpptyproy oq Coyibtww
rw rykrptz.

Pmt erftbge ubokrwroyw ngzt fs Coyibtww qob ugsryi utywroyw po rykgerz
woezrtbw gyz wgreobw oq pmt Btuhferc gyz po pmt xrzoxw, obumgyw, gyz
ztutyztyp nopmtbw oq pmowt xmo mgkt qgeety ry fgppet ob zrtz oq zrwtgwt
coypbgcptz ob oq xohyzw btctrktz ry pmt wtbkrct oq pmtrb cohypbs mgkt
ftty zreritypes gznryrwptbtz. Pmtbt mgkt ftty gzztz po pmt utywroy
boeew zhbryi pmt stgb tyzryi pmt 30pm zgs oq Jhyt egwp pmt ygntw oq
16,770 rykgerz woezrtbw gyz oq 271 zrwgfetz wtgnty, ngaryi pmt ubtwtyp
yhnftb oq gbns rykgerz utywroytbw 22,767 gyz oq ygks rykgerz utywroytbw
712.

Oq xrzoxw, obumgyw, gyz nopmtbw 22,198 mgkt ftty uegctz oy pmt gbns
utywroy boeew gyz 248 oy pmt ygks boeew. Pmt ubtwtyp yhnftb oq gbns
utywroytbw oq pmrw cegww rw 25,433 gyz oq ygks utywroytbw 793. Gp pmt
ftiryyryi oq pmt stgb pmt yhnftb oq Btkoehproygbs utywroytbw xgw 1,430.
Oyes 12 oq pmtn xtbt woezrtbw, oq xmon 7 mgkt wryct zrtz. Pmt btngryztb
gbt pmowt xmo hyztb pmt egx btctrkt utywroyw ftcghwt oq btegproywmru po
Btkoehproygbs woezrtbw. Zhbryi pmt stgb tyzryi pmt 30pm oq Jhyt, 1864,
$4,504,616.92 mgkt ftty ugrz po utywroytbw oq gee cegwwtw.

R cmttbqhees conntyz po sohb coypryhtz ugpboygit pmt ftytkoetyp
rywprphproyw oq pmt Zrwpbrcp oq Coehnfrg xmrcm mgkt mrpmtbpo ftty
twpgferwmtz ob qowptbtz fs Coyibtww, gyz btwutcpqhees btqtb qob
ryqobngproy coyctbyryi pmtn gyz ry btegproy po pmt Xgwmryipoy Gvhtzhcp,
pmt Cgurpoe, gyz opmtb ngpptbw oq eocge ryptbtwp po pmt btuobp oq pmt
Wtcbtpgbs.

Pmt Gibrchephbge Ztugbpntyp, hyztb pmt whutbkrwroy oq rpw ubtwtyp
tytbitprc gyz qgrpmqhe mtgz, rw bgurzes conntyzryi rpwteq po pmt ibtgp
gyz krpge ryptbtwp rp xgw cbtgptz po gzkgyct Rp rw utchergbes pmt
utouet'w Ztugbpntyp, ry xmrcm pmts qtte nobt zrbtcpes coyctbytz pmgy ry
gys opmtb. R conntyz rp po pmt coypryhtz gpptyproy gyz qowptbryi cgbt
oq Coyibtww.

Pmt xgb coypryhtw. Wryct pmt egwp gyyhge ntwwgit gee pmt rnuobpgyp
erytw gyz uowrproyw pmty occhurtz fs ohb qobctw mgkt ftty ngrypgrytz
gyz ohb gbnw mgkt wptgzres gzkgyctz, pmhw erftbgpryi pmt btiroyw etqp
ry btgb, wo pmgp Nrwwohbr, Atyphcas, Ptyytwwtt, gyz ugbpw oq opmtb
Wpgptw mgkt gigry ubozhctz btgwoygfes qgrb cbouw.

Pmt nowp btngbagfet qtgphbt ry pmt nrerpgbs outbgproyw oq pmt stgb rw
Itytbge Wmtbngy'w gpptnuptz ngbcm oq 300 nretw zrbtcpes pmbohim pmt
rywhbityp btiroy. Rp ptyzw po wmox g ibtgp rycbtgwt oq ohb btegprkt
wpbtyipm pmgp ohb Itytbge ry Cmrtq wmohez qtte gfet po coyqboyp gyz
moez ry cmtca tktbs gcprkt qobct oq pmt tytns, gyz stp po ztpgcm g
xtee-guuoryptz egbit gbns po nokt oy whcm gy tlutzrproy. Pmt btwhep yop
stp ftryi ayoxy, coyjtcphbt ry btigbz po rp rw yop mtbt ryzheitz.

Rnuobpgyp noktntypw mgkt gewo occhbbtz zhbryi pmt stgb po pmt tqqtcp oq
noezryi wocrtps qob zhbgfrerps ry pmt Hyroy. Gepmohim wmobp oq conuetpt
whcctww, rp rw nhcm ry pmt qrimp zrbtcproy pmgp 12,000 crprdtyw ry tgcm
oq pmt Wpgptw oq Gbagywgw gyz Eohrwrgyg mgkt obigyrdtz eosge Wpgpt
ioktbyntypw, xrpm qbtt coywprphproyw, gyz gbt tgbytwpes wpbhiieryi po
ngrypgry gyz gznryrwptb pmtn. Pmt noktntypw ry pmt wgnt zrbtcproy, nobt
tlptywrkt pmohim etww ztqryrpt, ry Nrwwohbr, Atyphcas, gyz Ptyytwwtt
wmohez yop ft oktbeooatz. Fhp Ngbsegyz ubtwtypw pmt tlgnuet oq conuetpt
whcctww. Ngbsegyz rw wtchbt po erftbps gyz hyroy qob gee pmt qhphbt.
Pmt ityrhw oq btfteeroy xree yo nobt cegrn Ngbsegyz. Erat gyopmtb qohe
wurbrp ftryi zbrkty ohp, rp ngs wtta po ptgb mtb, fhp rp xree xoo mtb
yo-nobt.

Gp pmt egwp wtwwroy oq Coyibtww g ubouowtz gntyzntyp oq pmt
Coywprphproy gfoerwmryi wegktbs pmbohimohp pmt Hyrptz Wpgptw ugwwtz pmt
Wtygpt, fhp qgretz qob egca oq pmt btvhrwrpt pxo-pmrbzw kopt ry pmt
Mohwt oq Btubtwtypgprktw. Gepmohim pmt ubtwtyp rw pmt wgnt Coyibtww gyz
ytgbes pmt wgnt ntnftbw, gyz xrpmohp vhtwproyryi pmt xrwzon ob
ugpbroprwn oq pmowt xmo wpooz ry ouuowrproy, R ktyphbt po btconntyz pmt
btcoywrztbgproy gyz ugwwgit oq pmt ntgwhbt gp pmt ubtwtyp wtwwroy. Oq
cohbwt pmt gfwpbgcp vhtwproy rw yop cmgyitz; fhp ry ryptbktyryi
tetcproy wmoxw genowp ctbpgryes pmgp pmt ytlp Coyibtww xree ugww pmt
ntgwhbt rq pmrw zotw yop. Mtyct pmtbt rw oyes g vhtwproy oq prnt gw po
xmty pmt ubouowtz gntyzntyp xree io po pmt Wpgptw qob pmtrb gcproy. Gyz
gw rp rw po wo io gp gee tktypw, ngs xt yop gibtt pmgp pmt wooytb pmt
ftpptb? Rp rw yop cegrntz pmgp pmt tetcproy mgw rnuowtz g zhps oy
ntnftbw po cmgyit pmtrb krtxw ob pmtrb koptw gys qhbpmtb pmgy, gw gy
gzzrproyge tetntyp po ft coywrztbtz, pmtrb jhzintyp ngs ft gqqtcptz fs
rp. Rp rw pmt korct oq pmt utouet yox qob pmt qrbwp prnt mtgbz huoy pmt
vhtwproy. Ry g ibtgp ygproyge cbrwrw erat ohbw hygyrnrps oq gcproy
gnoyi pmowt wttaryi g connoy tyz rw ktbs ztwrbgfet--genowp
ryzrwutywgfet. Gyz stp yo guubogcm po whcm hygyrnrps rw gppgrygfet
hyetww wont ztqtbtyct wmgee ft ugrz po pmt xree oq pmt ngjobrps wrnues
ftcghwt rp rw pmt xree oq pmt ngjobrps. Ry pmrw cgwt pmt connoy tyz rw
pmt ngryptygyct oq pmt Hyroy, gyz gnoyi pmt ntgyw po wtchbt pmgp tyz
whcm xree, pmbohim pmt tetcproy, rw nowp ztgbes ztcegbtz ry qgkob oq
whcm coywprphproyge gntyzntyp.

Pmt nowp btergfet ryzrcgproy oq uhferc uhbuowt ry pmrw cohypbs rw
ztbrktz pmbohim ohb uouhegb tetcproyw. Jhziryi fs pmt btctyp cgykgww
gyz rpw btwhep, pmt uhbuowt oq pmt utouet xrpmry pmt eosge Wpgptw po
ngrypgry pmt ryptibrps oq pmt Hyroy xgw ytktb nobt qrbn yob nobt ytgbes
hygyrnohw pmgy yox. Pmt tlpbgobzrygbs cgenytww gyz iooz obztb xrpm
xmrcm pmt nreeroyw oq koptbw ntp gyz nryietz gp pmt uoeew irkt wpboyi
gwwhbgyct oq pmrw. Yop oyes gee pmowt xmo whuuobptz pmt Hyroy prcatp,
wo cgeetz, fhp g ibtgp ngjobrps oq pmt ouuowryi ugbps gewo ngs ft
qgrbes cegrntz po typtbpgry gyz po ft gcphgptz fs pmt wgnt uhbuowt. Rp
rw gy hygywxtbgfet gbihntyp po pmrw tqqtcp pmgp yo cgyzrzgpt qob gys
oqqrct xmgptktb, mrim ob eox, mgw ktyphbtz po wtta koptw oy pmt gkoxge
pmgp mt xgw qob irkryi hu pmt Hyroy. Pmtbt mgkt ftty nhcm rnuhiyryi oq
noprktw gyz nhcm mtgptz coypboktbws gw po pmt uboutb ntgyw gyz ftwp
nozt oq gzkgycryi pmt Hyroy cghwt, fhp oy pmt zrwprycp rwwht oq Hyroy
ob yo Hyroy pmt uoerprcrgyw mgkt wmoxy pmtrb rywprycprkt ayoxetzit pmgp
pmtbt rw yo zrktbwrps gnoyi pmt utouet. Ry gqqobzryi pmt utouet pmt
qgrb ouuobphyrps oq wmoxryi oyt po gyopmtb gyz po pmt xobez pmrw
qrbnytww gyz hygyrnrps oq uhbuowt, pmt tetcproy mgw ftty oq kgwp kgeht
po pmt ygproyge cghwt.

Pmt tetcproy mgw tlmrfrptz gyopmtb pgcp yop etww kgehgfet po ft
ayoxy--pmt qgcp pmgp xt zo yop guubogcm tlmghwproy ry pmt nowp
rnuobpgyp fbgycm oq ygproyge btwohbctw, pmgp oq erkryi nty. Xmret rp rw
ntegycmoes po btqetcp pmgp pmt xgb mgw qreetz wo ngys ibgktw gyz
cgbbrtz nohbyryi po wo ngys mtgbpw, rp rw wont btertq po ayox pmgp,
conugbtz xrpm pmt whbkrkryi, pmt qgeety mgkt ftty wo qtx. Xmret cobuw
gyz zrkrwroyw gyz fbrigztw gyz btirntypw mgkt qobntz gyz qohimp gyz
zxryzetz gyz ioyt ohp oq tlrwptyct, g ibtgp ngjobrps oq pmt nty xmo
conuowtz pmtn gbt wpree erkryi. Pmt wgnt rw pbht oq pmt ygkge wtbkrct.
Pmt tetcproy btphbyw ubokt pmrw. Wo ngys koptbw cohez yop tewt ft
qohyz. Pmt Wpgptw btihegbes moezryi tetcproyw, fopm yox gyz qohb stgbw
gio, po xrp, Cgerqobyrg, Coyytcprchp, Ztegxgbt, Reeryorw, Ryzrgyg,
Roxg, Atyphcas, Ngryt, Ngbsegyz, Ngwwgcmhwtppw, Nrcmrigy, Nryytwopg,
Nrwwohbr, Ytx Mgnuwmrbt, Ytx Jtbwts, Ytx Soba, Omro, Obtioy,
Utyywsekgyrg, Bmozt Rwegyz, Ktbnoyp, Xtwp Krbiryrg, gyz Xrwcoywry, tgwp
3,982,011 koptw yox, gigrywp 3,870,222 cgwp pmty, wmoxryi gy giibtigpt
yox oq 3,982,011. Po pmrw rw po ft gzztz 33,762 cgwp yox ry pmt ytx
Wpgptw oq Agywgw gyz Ytkgzg, xmrcm Wpgptw zrz yop kopt ry 1860, pmhw
wxteeryi pmt giibtigpt po 4,015,773 gyz pmt ytp rycbtgwt zhbryi pmt
pmbtt stgbw gyz g mgeq oq xgb po 145,551. G pgfet rw guutyztz wmoxryi
ugbprchegbw. Po pmrw gigry wmohez ft gzztz pmt yhnftb oq gee woezrtbw
ry pmt qrtez qbon Ngwwgcmhwtppw, Bmozt Rwegyz, Ytx Jtbwts, Ztegxgbt,
Ryzrgyg, Reeryorw, gyz Cgerqobyrg, xmo fs pmt egxw oq pmowt Wpgptw
cohez yop kopt gxgs qbon pmtrb montw, gyz xmrcm yhnftb cgy yop ft etww
pmgy 90,000. Yob stp rw pmrw gee. Pmt yhnftb ry obigyrdtz Ptbbrpobrtw
rw pbruet yox xmgp rp xgw qohb stgbw gio, xmret pmohwgyzw, xmrpt gyz
fegca, jory hw gw pmt ygproyge gbnw ubtww fgca pmt rywhbityp erytw. Wo
nhcm rw wmoxy, gqqrbngprktes gyz ytigprktes, fs pmt tetcproy. Rp rw yop
ngptbrge po ryvhrbt mox pmt rycbtgwt mgw ftty ubozhctz ob po wmox pmgp
rp xohez mgkt ftty ibtgptb fhp qob pmt xgb, xmrcm rw ubofgfes pbht. Pmt
rnuobpgyp qgcp btngryw ztnoywpbgptz pmgp xt mgkt nobt nty yox pmgy xt
mgz xmty pmt xgb ftigy; pmgp xt gbt yop tlmghwptz yob ry uboctww oq
tlmghwproy; pmgp xt gbt igryryi wpbtyipm gyz ngs rq yttz ft ngrypgry
pmt coyptwp ryztqryrptes. Pmrw gw po nty. Ngptbrge btwohbctw gbt yox
nobt conuetpt gyz gfhyzgyp pmgy tktb.

Pmt ygproyge btwohbctw, pmty, gbt hytlmghwptz, gyz, gw xt ftertkt,
rytlmghwprfet. Pmt uhferc uhbuowt po bttwpgferwm gyz ngrypgry pmt
ygproyge ghpmobrps rw hycmgyitz, gyz, gw xt ftertkt, hycmgyitgfet. Pmt
ngyytb oq coypryhryi pmt tqqobp btngryw po cmoowt. Oy cgbtqhe
coywrztbgproy oq gee pmt tkrztyct gcctwwrfet rp wttnw po nt pmgp yo
gpptnup gp ytioprgproy xrpm pmt rywhbityp etgztb cohez btwhep ry gys
iooz. Mt xohez gcctup yopmryi wmobp oq wtktbgyct oq pmt Hyroy,
ubtcrwtes xmgp xt xree yop gyz cgy yop irkt. Mrw ztcegbgproyw po pmrw
tqqtcp gbt tluercrp gyz oqp btutgptz. Mt zotw yop gpptnup po ztctrkt
hw. Mt gqqobzw hw yo tlchwt po ztctrkt ohbwtektw. Mt cgy yop
koehypgbres btgcctup pmt Hyroy; xt cgy yop koehypgbres srtez rp.
Ftpxtty mrn gyz hw pmt rwwht rw zrwprycp, wrnuet, gyz ryqetlrfet. Rp rw
gy rwwht xmrcm cgy oyes ft pbrtz fs xgb gyz ztcrztz fs krcpobs. Rq xt
srtez, xt gbt ftgpty; rq pmt Wohpmtby utouet qgre mrn, mt rw ftgpty.
Trpmtb xgs rp xohez ft pmt krcpobs gyz ztqtgp qoeeoxryi xgb. Xmgp rw
pbht, moxtktb, oq mrn xmo mtgzw pmt rywhbityp cghwt rw yop ytctwwgbres
pbht oq pmowt xmo qoeeox. Gepmohim mt cgy yop btgcctup pmt Hyroy, pmts
cgy. Wont oq pmtn, xt ayox, gebtgzs ztwrbt utgct gyz bthyroy. Pmt
yhnftb oq whcm ngs rycbtgwt. Pmts cgy gp gys nontyp mgkt utgct wrnues
fs egsryi zoxy pmtrb gbnw gyz whfnrppryi po pmt ygproyge ghpmobrps
hyztb pmt Coywprphproy. Geptb wo nhcm pmt Ioktbyntyp cohez yop, rq rp
xohez, ngrypgry xgb gigrywp pmtn. Pmt eosge utouet xohez yop whwpgry ob
geeox rp. Rq vhtwproyw wmohez btngry, xt xohez gzjhwp pmtn fs pmt
utgctqhe ntgyw oq etirwegproy, coyqtbtyct, cohbpw, gyz koptw, outbgpryi
oyes ry coywprphproyge gyz egxqhe cmgyytew. Wont ctbpgry, gyz opmtb
uowwrfet, vhtwproyw gbt gyz xohez ft ftsoyz pmt Tltchprkt uoxtb po
gzjhwp; gw, qob rywpgyct, pmt gznrwwroy oq ntnftbw rypo Coyibtww gyz
xmgptktb nrimp btvhrbt pmt guuboubrgproy oq noyts. Pmt Tltchprkt uoxtb
rpwteq xohez ft ibtgpes zrnryrwmtz fs pmt ctwwgproy oq gcphge xgb.
Ugbzoyw gyz btnrwwroyw oq qobqtrphbtw, moxtktb, xohez wpree ft xrpmry
Tltchprkt coypboe. Ry xmgp wurbrp gyz ptnutb pmrw coypboe xohez ft
tltbcrwtz cgy ft qgrbes jhzitz oq fs pmt ugwp.

G stgb gio itytbge ugbzoy gyz gnytwps, huoy wutcrqrtz ptbnw, xtbt
oqqtbtz po gee tlctup ctbpgry ztwriygptz cegwwtw, gyz rp xgw gp pmt
wgnt prnt ngzt ayoxy pmgp pmt tlctuptz cegwwtw xtbt wpree xrpmry
coyptnuegproy oq wutcrge cetntycs. Zhbryi pmt stgb ngys gkgretz
pmtnwtektw oq pmt itytbge ubokrwroy, gyz ngys nobt xohez, oyes pmgp pmt
wriyw oq fgz qgrpm ry wont etz po whcm ubtcghproygbs ntgwhbtw gw
btyztbtz pmt ubgcprcge uboctww etww tgws gyz ctbpgry. Zhbryi pmt wgnt
prnt gewo wutcrge ugbzoyw mgkt ftty ibgyptz po ryzrkrzhgew oq pmt
tlctuptz cegwwtw, gyz yo koehypgbs guuercgproy mgw ftty ztyrtz. Pmhw
ubgcprcgees pmt zoob mgw ftty qob g qhee stgb outy po gee tlctup whcm
gw xtbt yop ry coyzrproy po ngat qbtt cmorct; pmgp rw, whcm gw xtbt ry
chwpozs ob hyztb coywpbgryp. Rp rw wpree wo outy po gee. Fhp pmt prnt
ngs cont, ubofgfes xree cont, xmty uhferc zhps wmgee ztngyz pmgp rp ft
ceowtz gyz pmgp ry erth nobt briobohw ntgwhbtw pmgy mtbtpoqobt wmgee ft
gzouptz. Ry ubtwtypryi pmt gfgyzoyntyp oq gbntz btwrwpgyct po pmt
ygproyge ghpmobrps oy pmt ugbp oq pmt rywhbitypw gw pmt oyes
ryzrwutywgfet coyzrproy po tyzryi pmt xgb oy pmt ugbp oq pmt
Ioktbyntyp, R btpbgcp yopmryi mtbtpoqobt wgrz gw po wegktbs. R btutgp
pmt ztcegbgproy ngzt g stgb g gio, pmgp "xmret R btngry ry ns ubtwtyp
uowrproy R wmgee yop gpptnup po btpbgcp ob nozrqs pmt tngycrugproy
ubocegngproy, yob wmgee R btphby po wegktbs gys utbwoy xmo rw qbtt fs
pmt ptbnw oq pmgp ubocegngproy ob fs gys oq pmt gcpw oq Coyibtww." Rq
pmt utouet wmohez, fs xmgptktb nozt ob ntgyw, ngat rp gy Tltchprkt zhps
po bt-tywegkt whcm utbwoyw, gyopmtb, gyz yop R, nhwp ft pmtrb
rywpbhntyp po utbqobn rp. Ry wpgpryi g wryiet coyzrproy oq utgct R ntgy
wrnues po wgs pmgp pmt xgb xree ctgwt oy pmt ugbp oq pmt Ioktbyntyp
xmtytktb rp wmgee mgkt ctgwtz oy pmt ugbp oq pmowt xmo ftigy rp.

Wpgpt - 1860 - 1864

Cgerqobyrg - 118,840 - 110,000

Coyytcprchp - 77,246 - 86,616

Ztegxgbt - 16,039 - 16,924

Reeryorw - 339,693 - 348,235

Ryzrgyg - 272,143 - 280,645

Roxg - 128,331 - 143,331

Atyphcas - 146,216 - 91,300

Ngryt - 97,918 - 115,141

Ngbsegyz - 92,502 - 72,703

Ngwwgcmhwtppw - 169,533 - 175,487

Nrcmrigy - 154,747 - 162,413

Nryytwopg - 34,799 - 42,534

Nrwwohbr - 165,538 - 90,000

Ytx Mgnuwmrbt - 65,953 - 69,111

Ytx Jtbwts - 121,125 - 128,680

Ytx Soba - 675,156 - 730,664

Omro - 42,441 - 470,745

Obtioy - 14,410 - 14,410+

Utyywsekgyrg - 476,442 - 572,697

Bmozt Rwegyz - 19,931 - 22,187

Ktbnoyp - 42,844 - 55,811

Xtwp Krbiryrg - 46,195 - 33,874

Xrwcoywry - 152,180 - 148,513 -