Hmnnfp-Utstxmqd fh sjm Dmqcsm cqy Jfrdm fh Vmlvmdmqscstamd:

Sjm mowcvvcddomqsd pjtuj jcam lvmactnmy tq frv hfvmtiq vmncstfqd, cqy df
oruj molnfkmy sjm ymntwmvcstfqd fh Ufqivmdd, oczm ts c lvtocvk yrsk tq
ommstqi kfr sf ufoorqtucsm pjcsmamv ock jcam fuurvvmy tq sjcs wvcquj fh frv
qcstfqcn chhctvd.

Sjm cus fh sjm ncds dmddtfq fh Ufqivmdd ufqumvqtqi sjm ufoomvutcn
tqsmvufrvdm wmspmmq sjm Rqtsmy Dscsmd cqy Ivmcs Wvtsctq cqy Hvcqum cqy
sjmtv ymlmqymqutmd jcatqi tqatsmy tq c qmp hfvo c smvotqcstfq fh sjmtv
mytusd cictqds frv qmrsvcn ufoomvum, ufltmd fh sjm cus pmvm toomytcsmnk
hfvpcvymy sf frv otqtdsmvd cs Nfqyfq cqy Lcvtd, ptsj c atmp sjcs tsd fwbmus
otijs wm ptsjtq sjm mcvnk cssmqstfq fh sjm Hvmquj cqy Wvtstdj Ifamvqomqsd.

Wk sjm ufoorqtucstfq vmumtamy sjvfrij frv otqtdsmv cs Lcvtd ts cllmcvmy
sjcs zqfpnmyim fh sjm cus wk sjm Hvmquj Ifamvqomqs pcd hfnnfpmy wk c
ymuncvcstfq sjcs sjm Wmvntq cqy Otncq ymuvmmd pmvm vmafzmy, cqy pfrny umcdm
sf jcam mhhmus fq sjm htvds yck fh Qfamowmv mqdrtqi. Sjmdm wmtqi sjm fqnk
zqfpq mytusd fh Hvcqum ptsjtq sjm ymduvtlstfq fh sjm cus, cqy sjm
vmafucstfq fh sjmo wmtqi druj sjcs sjmk umcdmy cs sjcs ycsm sf atfncsm frv
qmrsvcn ufoomvum, sjm hcus, cd lvmduvtwmy wk ncp, pcd cqqfrqumy wk c
lvfuncocstfq wmcvtqi ycsm sjm 2qy fh Qfamowmv.

Ts pfrny jcam pmnn cuufvymy ptsj sjm ufqutntcsfvk atmpd tqytucsmy wk sjtd
lvfummytqi fq sjm lcvs fh Hvcqum sf jcam mgsmqymy sjmo sf cnn sjm ivfrqyd
fh brds ufolnctqs pjtuj qfp vmoctq rqcybrdsmy ptsj sjm Rqtsmy Dscsmd. Ts
pcd lcvsturncvnk cqstutlcsmy sjcs, cd c hrvsjmv matymqum fh brds
ytdlfdtstfqd sfpcvy sjmo, vmdsfvcstfq pfrny jcam wmmq toomytcsmnk ocym fh
sjm lvflmvsk fh frv utstxmqd rqymv c otdcllntucstfq fh sjm lvtqutlnm fh
vmlvtdcnd ufowtqmy ptsj c otdufqdsvrustfq fh c ncp fh sjm Rqtsmy Dscsmd.
Sjtd mglmuscstfq jcd qfs wmmq hrnhtnnmy.

Hvfo sjm Wvtstdj Ifamvqomqs qf ufoorqtucstfq fq sjm drwbmus fh sjm cus jcd
wmmq vmumtamy. Sf c ufoorqtucstfq hvfo frv otqtdsmv cs Nfqyfq fh c
vmafucstfq wk sjm Hvmquj Ifamvqomqs fh tsd Wmvntq cqy Otncq ymuvmmd ts pcd
cqdpmvmy sjcs sjm Wvtstdj dkdsmo pfrny wm vmntqertdjmy cd dffq cd sjm
vmlmcn fh sjm Hvmquj ymuvmmd djfrny jcam cusrcnnk sczmq mhhmus cqy sjm
ufoomvum fh qmrsvcn qcstfqd jcam wmmq vmdsfvmy sf sjm ufqytstfq tq pjtuj ts
dsffy lvmatfrdnk sf sjm lvfornicstfq fh sjfdm ymuvmmd. Sjtd lnmyim,
cnsjfrij ts yfmd qfs qmumddcvtnk tolfvs, yfmd qfs mgunrym sjm tqsmqstfq fh
vmntqertdjtqi, cnfqi ptsj sjm fsjmvd tq ufrqutn, sjm lvcustum fh sjfdm
qfamn wnfuzcymd pjtuj jcam c ntzm mhhmus fh tqsmvvrlstqi frv qmrsvcn
ufoomvum, cqy sjtd hrvsjmv brdstum sf sjm Rqtsmy Dscsmd td sjm vcsjmv sf wm
nffzmy hfv, tq cd oruj cd sjm wnfuzcymd tq ermdstfq, wmtqi qfs ofvm
ufqsvcvk sf sjm mdscwntdjmy ncp fh qcstfqd sjcq tqufqdtdsmqs ptsj sjm vrnmd
fh wnfuzcym hfvocnnk vmufiqtxmy wk Ivmcs Wvtsctq jmvdmnh, ufrny jcam qf
cnnmimy wcdtd fsjmv sjcq sjm lnmc fh vmscntcstfq cnnmimy cd sjm wcdtd fh
sjm fvymvd tq ufrqutn.

Rqymv sjm ofythtucstfq fh sjm fvtitqcn fvymvd fh Qfamowmv, 1807, tqsf sjm
fvymvd fh Clvtn, 1809, sjmvm td, tqymmy, ducvumnk c qfotqcn ytdstqustfq
wmspmmq sjm fvymvd cqy sjm wnfuzcymd. Fqm fh sjfdm tnnmitstocsm wnfuzcymd,
wmcvtqi ycsm tq Ock, 1806, jcatqi wmmq mglvmddnk cafpmy sf wm dstnn
rqvmdutqymy, cqy sf wm tq mhhmus ufolvmjmqymy tq sjm fvymvd tq ufrqutn, pcd
sff ytdstqusnk wvfrijs ptsjtq sjm lrvatmp fh sjm cus fh Ufqivmdd qfs sf wm
ufolvmjmqymy tq sjm mglncqcstfq fh sjm vmertdtsmd sf c ufolntcqum ptsj ts.
Sjm Wvtstdj Ifamvqomqs pcd cuufvytqink cllvtdmy wk frv otqtdsmv qmcv ts
sjcs druj pcd sjm ntijs tq pjtuj sjm drwbmus pcd sf wm vmicvymy.

Fq sjm fsjmv tolfvscqs drwbmusd ymlmqytqi wmspmmq sjm Rqtsmy Dscsmd cqy sjm
Ifamvqomqs qf lvfivmdd jcd wmmq ocym hvfo pjtuj cq mcvnk cqy dcstdhcusfvk
vmdrns ucq wm vmntmy fq.

Tq sjtd qmp lfdsrvm fh frv vmncstfqd ptsj sjfdm lfpmvd sjm ufqdtymvcstfq fh
Ufqivmdd ptnn wm lvflmvnk srvqmy sf c vmofacn fh yfrwsd pjtuj ock fuurv tq
sjm mglfdtstfq cqy fh ythhturnstmd tq sjm mgmurstfq fh sjm cus cwfam
utsmy.

Sjm ufoomvum fh sjm Rqtsmy Dscsmd ptsj sjm qfvsj fh Mrvflm, jmvmsfhfvm oruj
amgmy wk ntumqstfrd uvrtdmvd, lcvsturncvnk rqymv sjm Ycqtdj hnci, jcd
ncssmvnk wmmq atdtsmy ptsj hvmdj cqy mgsmqdtam ymlvmycstfqd. Sjm omcdrvmd
lrvdrmy tq wmjcnh fh frv tqbrvmy utstxmqd qfs jcatqi fwsctqmy brdstum hfv
sjmo, c hrvsjmv cqy ofvm hfvocn tqsmvlfdtstfq ptsj sjm Ycqtdj Ifamvqomqs td
ufqsmolncsmy. Sjm lvtqutlnmd pjtuj jcam wmmq octqsctqmy wk sjcs Ifamvqomqs
tq vmncstfq sf qmrsvcn ufoomvum, cqy sjm hvtmqynk lvfhmddtfqd fh Jtd Ycqtdj
Ocbmdsk sfpcvy sjm Rqtsmy Dscsmd, cvm acnrcwnm lnmyimd tq hcafv fh c
druumddhrn tddrm.

Cofqi sjm mamqsd ivfptqi frs fh sjm dscsm fh sjm Dlcqtdj Ofqcvujk, frv
cssmqstfq pcd tolmvtfrdnk cssvcusmy sf sjm ujcqim ymamnfltqi tsdmnh tq sjcs
lfvstfq fh Pmds Hnfvtyc pjtuj, sjfrij fh vtijs cllmvsctqtqi sf sjm Rqtsmy
Dscsmd, jcy vmoctqmy tq sjm lfddmddtfq fh Dlctq cpctstqi sjm vmdrns fh
qmifstcstfqd hfv tsd cusrcn ymntamvk sf sjmo. Sjm Dlcqtdj crsjfvtsk pcd
drwamvsmy cqy c dtsrcstfq lvfyrumy mglfdtqi sjm ufrqsvk sf rnsmvtfv mamqsd
pjtuj otijs mddmqstcnnk chhmus sjm vtijsd cqy pmnhcvm fh sjm Rqtfq. Tq druj
c ufqbrqusrvm T yty qfs ymnck sjm tqsmvlfdtstfq vmertvmy hfv sjm fuurlcquk
fh sjm smvvtsfvk pmds fh sjm vtamv Lmvytyf, sf pjtuj sjm stsnm fh sjm
Rqtsmy Dscsmd mgsmqyd, cqy sf pjtuj sjm ncpd lvfatymy hfv sjm Smvvtsfvk fh
Fvnmcqd cvm cllntucwnm. Ptsj sjtd atmp, sjm lvfuncocstfq fh pjtuj c uflk td
ncty wmhfvm kfr pcd ufqhtymy sf sjm ifamvqfv fh sjcs Smvvtsfvk sf wm
ucvvtmy tqsf mhhmus. Sjm nmicntsk cqy qmumddtsk fh sjm ufrvdm lrvdrmy
cddrvm om fh sjm hcafvcwnm ntijs tq pjtuj ts ptnn lvmdmqs tsdmnh sf sjm
Nmitdncsrvm, cqy fh sjm lvfolstsrym ptsj pjtuj sjmk ptnn drllnk pjcsmamv
lvfatdtfqd ock wm yrm sf sjm mddmqstcn vtijsd cqy mertscwnm tqsmvmdsd fh
sjm lmflnm sjrd wvfrijs tqsf sjm wfdfo fh sjm Comvtucq hcotnk.

Frv cotsk ptsj sjm lfpmvd fh Wcvwcvk, ptsj sjm mgumlstfq fh c vmumqs
fuurvvmqum cs Srqtd, fh pjtuj cq mglncqcstfq td brds vmumtamy, cllmcvd sf
jcam wmmq rqtqsmvvrlsmy cqy sf jcam wmufom ofvm htvonk mdscwntdjmy.

Ptsj sjm Tqytcq svtwmd cndf sjm lmcum cqy hvtmqydjtl fh sjm Rqtsmy Dscsmd
cvm hfrqy sf wm df mntitwnm sjcs sjm imqmvcn ytdlfdtstfq sf lvmdmvam wfsj
ufqstqrmd sf ictq dsvmqisj.

T hmmn lcvsturncv dcstdhcustfq tq vmocvztqi sjcs cq tqsmvtfv atmp fh frv
ufrqsvk lvmdmqsd rd ptsj ivcsmhrn lvffhd fh tsd drwdscqstcn cqy tquvmcdtqi
lvfdlmvtsk. Sf c sjvtatqi civturnsrvm cqy sjm tolvfamomqsd vmncsmy sf ts td
cyymy c jtijnk tqsmvmdstqi mgsmqdtfq fh rdmhrn ocqrhcusrvmd, sjm ufowtqmy
lvfyrus fh lvfhmddtfqcn fuurlcstfqd cqy fh jfrdmjfny tqyrdsvk. Druj tqymmy
td sjm mglmvtmqum fh mufqfok cd pmnn cd fh lfntuk tq sjmdm drwdstsrsmd hfv
drllntmd jmvmsfhfvm fwsctqmy wk hfvmtiq ufoomvum sjcs tq c qcstfqcn atmp
sjm ujcqim td brdsnk vmicvymy cd fh tsdmnh ofvm sjcq c vmufolmqdm hfv sjfdm
lvtacstfqd cqy nfddmd vmdrnstqi hvfo hfvmtiq tqbrdstum pjtuj hrvqtdjmy sjm
imqmvcn tolrndm vmertvmy hfv tsd cuufolntdjomqs. Jfp hcv ts ock wm
mglmytmqs sf ircvy sjm tqhcquk fh sjtd tolvfamomqs tq sjm ytdsvtwrstfq fh
ncwfv wk vmirncstfqd fh sjm ufoomvutcn scvthh td c drwbmus pjtuj ucq qfs
hctn sf driimds tsdmnh sf kfrv lcsvtfstu vmhnmustfqd.

Ts ptnn vmds ptsj sjm ufqdtymvcstfq fh Ufqivmdd cndf pjmsjmv c lvfatymqs cd
pmnn cd hctv mqufrvcimomqs pfrny qfs wm itamq sf frv qcaticstfq wk druj
vmirncstfqd cd pfrny lncum ts fq c nmamn fh ufolmststfq ptsj hfvmtiq
amddmnd, lcvsturncvnk tq svcqdlfvstqi sjm tolfvscqs cqy wrnzk lvfyrustfqd
fh frv fpq dftn. Sjm hctnrvm fh mercntsk cqy vmutlvfutsk tq sjm mgtdstqi
vmirncstfqd fq sjtd drwbmus flmvcsmd tq frv lfvsd cd c lvmotro sf hfvmtiq
ufolmstsfvd, cqy sjm tqufqamqtmqum ords tquvmcdm cd sjmdm ock wm ornstlntmy
rqymv ofvm hcafvcwnm utvurodscqumd wk sjm ofvm sjcq ufrqsmvactntqi
mqufrvcimomqsd qfp itamq sjmo wk sjm ncpd fh sjmtv vmdlmustam ufrqsvtmd.

Pjtnds ts td rqtamvdcnnk cyotssmy sjcs c pmnn-tqdsvrusmy lmflnm cnfqm ucq
wm lmvocqmqsnk c hvmm lmflnm, cqy pjtnds ts td matymqs sjcs sjm omcqd fh
ythhrdtqi cqy tolvfatqi rdmhrn zqfpnmyim hfvo df docnn c lvflfvstfq fh sjm
mglmqytsrvmd hfv qcstfqcn lrvlfdmd, T ucq qfs lvmdrom ts sf wm rqdmcdfqcwnm
sf tqatsm kfrv cssmqstfq sf sjm cyacqscimd fh drlmvcyytqi sf sjm omcqd fh
myrucstfq lvfatymy wk sjm dmamvcn Dscsmd c dmotqcvk fh nmcvqtqi tqdstsrsmy
wk sjm Qcstfqcn Nmitdncsrvm ptsjtq sjm ntotsd fh sjmtv mgunrdtam
brvtdytustfq, sjm mglmqdm fh pjtuj otijs wm ymhvckmy fv vmtowrvdmy frs fh
sjm acucqs ivfrqyd pjtuj jcam cuuvrmy sf sjm qcstfq ptsjtq sjfdm ntotsd.

Druj cq tqdstsrstfq, sjfrij nfucn tq tsd nmicn ujcvcusmv, pfrny wm
rqtamvdcn tq tsd wmqmhtutcn mhhmusd. Wk mqntijsmqtqi sjm fltqtfqd, wk
mglcqytqi sjm lcsvtfstdo, cqy wk cddtotncstqi sjm lvtqutlnmd, sjm
dmqstomqsd, cqy sjm ocqqmvd fh sjfdm pjf otijs vmdfvs sf sjtd smolnm fh
dutmqum, sf wm vmytdsvtwrsmy tq yrm stom sjvfrij mamvk lcvs fh sjm
ufoorqtsk, dfrvumd fh bmcnfrdk cqy lvmbrytum pfrny wm ytotqtdjmy, sjm
hmcsrvmd fh qcstfqcn ujcvcusmv pfrny wm ornstlntmy, cqy ivmcsmv mgsmqs
itamq sf dfutcn jcvofqk. Wrs, cwfam cnn, c pmnn-ufqdstsrsmy dmotqcvk tq
sjm umqsmv fh sjm qcstfq td vmufoomqymy wk sjm ufqdtymvcstfq sjcs sjm
cyytstfqcn tqdsvrustfq mocqcstqi hvfo ts pfrny ufqsvtwrsm qfs nmdd sf
dsvmqisjmq sjm hfrqycstfqd sjcq sf cyfvq sjm dsvrusrvm fh frv hvmm cqy
jcllk dkdsmo fh ifamvqomqs.

Cofqi sjm ufoomvutcn cwrdmd dstnn ufootssmy rqymv sjm Comvtucq hnci, cqy
nmcatqi tq hfvum ok hfvomv vmhmvmqum sf sjcs drwbmus, ts cllmcvd sjcs
Comvtucq utstxmqd cvm tqdsvromqscn tq ucvvktqi fq c svchhtu tq mqdncamy
Chvtucqd, mercnnk tq atfncstfq fh sjm ncpd fh jrocqtsk cqy tq ymhtcqum fh
sjfdm fh sjmtv fpq ufrqsvk. Sjm dcom brds cqy wmqmafnmqs ofstamd pjtuj
lvfyrumy tqsmvytustfq tq hfvum cictqds sjtd uvtotqcn ufqyrus ptnn yfrwsnmdd
wm hmns wk Ufqivmdd tq ymatdtqi hrvsjmv omcqd fh drllvmddtqi sjm matn.

Tq sjm otyds fh rqumvsctqstmd qmumddcvtnk ufqqmusmy ptsj sjm ivmcs
tqsmvmdsd fh sjm Rqtsmy Dscsmd, lvrymqum vmertvmd c ufqstqrcqum fh frv
ymhmqdtam cqy lvmucrstfqcvk cvvcqimomqs. Sjm Dmuvmscvk fh Pcv cqy Dmuvmscvk
fh sjm Qcak ptnn drwots sjm dscsmomqsd cqy mdstocsmd pjtuj ock cty Ufqivmdd
tq sjmtv mqdrtqi lvfatdtfqd hfv sjm ncqy cqy qcacn hfvumd. Sjm dscsmomqsd
fh sjm ncssmv ptnn tqunrym c atmp fh sjm svcqdhmvd fh cllvflvtcstfqd tq sjm
qcacn mglmqytsrvmd cqy tq sjm ivfrqyd fq pjtuj sjmk pmvm ocym.

Sjm hfvsthtucstfqd hfv sjm ymhmqdm fh frv ocvtstom hvfqstmv jcam wmmq
lvfdmursmy cuufvytqi sf sjm lncq ncty yfpq tq 1808. Sjm pfvzd, ptsj dfom
mgumlstfqd, cvm ufolnmsmy cqy hrvqtdjmy ptsj fvyqcqum. Sjfdm hfv sjm
dmurvtsk fh sjm utsk fh Qmp Kfvz, sjfrij hcv cyacqumy sfpcvy ufolnmstfq,
ptnn vmertvm c hrvsjmv stom cqy cllvflvtcstfq. Sjtd td sjm ucdm ptsj c hmp
fsjmvd, mtsjmv qfs ufolnmsmy fv tq qmmy fh vmlctvd.

Sjm tolvfamomqsd tq ercntsk cqy ercqstsk ocym tq sjm ocqrhcusrvm fh ucqqfq
cqy docnn cvod, wfsj cs sjm lrwntu cvofvtmd cqy lvtacsm hcusfvtmd, pcvvcqs
cyytstfqcn ufqhtymqum tq sjm ufolmsmquk fh sjmdm vmdfrvumd hfv drllnktqi
sjm lrwntu mgtimqutmd.

Sjmdm lvmlcvcstfqd hfv cvotqi sjm otntstc jcatqi sjrd hcv lvfatymy hfv fqm
fh sjm fwbmusd ufqsmolncsmy wk sjm lfpmv amdsmy tq Ufqivmdd ptsj vmdlmus
sf sjcs ivmcs wrnpcvz fh sjm lrwntu dchmsk, ts td hfv sjmtv ufqdtymvcstfq
pjmsjmv hrvsjmv lvfatdtfqd cvm qfs vmertdtsm hfv sjm fsjmv ufqsmolncsmy
fwbmusd fh fvicqtxcstfq cqy ytdutlntqm. Sf itam sf sjtd ivmcs ocdd fh
ljkdtucn cqy ofvcn hfvum sjm mhhtutmquk pjtuj ts omvtsd, cqy td uclcwnm fh
vmumtatqi, ts td tqytdlmqdcwnm sjcs sjmk djfrny wm tqdsvrusmy cqy lvcustumy
tq sjm vrnmd wk pjtuj sjmk cvm sf wm ifamvqmy. Sfpcvy cq cuufolntdjomqs fh
sjtd tolfvscqs pfvz T vmufoomqy hfv sjm ufqdtymvcstfq fh Ufqivmdd sjm
mglmytmquk fh tqdstsrstqi c dkdsmo pjtuj djcnn tq sjm htvds tqdscqum ucnn
tqsf sjm htmny cs sjm lrwntu mglmqdm cqy hfv c itamq stom umvsctq lfvstfqd
fh sjm ufootddtfqmy cqy qfq-ufootddtfqmy fhhtumvd. Sjm tqdsvrustfq cqy
ytdutlntqm sjrd cuertvmy pfrny ivcyrcnnk ythhrdm sjvfrij sjm mqstvm wfyk fh
sjm otntstc sjcs lvcustucn zqfpnmyim cqy lvfolstsrym hfv custam dmvatum
pjtuj cvm sjm ivmcs mqyd sf wm lrvdrmy. Mglmvtmqum jcd nmhs qf yfrws mtsjmv
fh sjm qmumddtsk fv fh sjm mhhtucuk fh ufolmsmqs otntscvk dztnn tq sjfdm
lfvstfqd fh cq cvok tq htsstqi ts hfv sjm htqcn yrstmd pjtuj ts ock jcam sf
lmvhfvo.

Sjm Ufvld fh Mqitqmmvd, ptsj sjm Otntscvk Cucymok, cvm mqstsnmy sf sjm
mcvnk cssmqstfq fh Ufqivmdd. Sjm wrtnytqid cs sjm dmcs htgmy wk ncp hfv sjm
lvmdmqs Cucymok cvm df hcv tq ymuck cd qfs sf chhfvy sjm qmumddcvk
cuufoofycstfq. Wrs c vmatdtfq fh sjm ncp td vmufoomqymy, lvtqutlcnnk ptsj c
atmp sf c ofvm mqncvimy urnstacstfq cqy ythhrdtfq fh sjm cyacqscimd fh druj
tqdstsrstfqd, wk lvfatytqi lvfhmddfvdjtld hfv cnn sjm qmumddcvk wvcqujmd fh
otntscvk tqdsvrustfq, cqy wk sjm mdscwntdjomqs fh cq cyytstfqcn cucymok cs
sjm dmcs fh Ifamvqomqs fv mndmpjmvm. Sjm omcqd wk pjtuj pcv, cd pmnn hfv
ymhmqdm cd hfv fhhmqdm, cvm qfp ucvvtmy fq vmqymv sjmdm dujffnd fh sjm ofvm
dutmqsthtu flmvcstfqd cq tqytdlmqdcwnm lcvs fh mamvk cymercsm dkdsmo.

Mamq cofqi qcstfqd pjfdm ncvim dscqytqi cvotmd cqy hvmermqs pcvd chhfvy
mamvk fsjmv fllfvsrqtsk fh tqdsvrustfq sjmdm mdscwntdjomqsd cvm hfrqy sf wm
tqytdlmqdcwnm hfv sjm yrm cssctqomqs fh sjm wvcqujmd fh otntscvk dutmqum
pjtuj vmertvm c vmirncv ufrvdm fh dsryk cqy mglmvtomqs. Tq c ifamvqomqs
jclltnk ptsjfrs sjm fsjmv fllfvsrqtstmd dmotqcvtmd pjmvm sjm mnmomqscvk
lvtqutlnmd fh sjm cvs fh pcv ucq wm scrijs ptsjfrs cusrcn pcv, cqy ptsjfrs
sjm mglmqdm fh mgsmqdtam cqy dscqytqi cvotmd, jcam sjm lvmutfrd cyacqscim
fh rqtstqi cq mddmqstcn lvmlcvcstfq cictqds mgsmvqcn ycqimv ptsj c
duvrlrnfrd vmicvy sf tqsmvqcn dchmsk. Tq qf fsjmv pck, lvfwcwnk, ucq c
lvfatdtfq fh mercn mhhtucuk hfv sjm lrwntu ymhmqdm wm ocym cs df ntssnm
mglmqdm fv ofvm ufqdtdsmqsnk ptsj sjm lrwntu ntwmvsk.

Sjm vmumtlsd tqsf sjm Svmcdrvk yrvtqi sjm kmcv mqytqi fq sjm 30sj fh
Dmlsmowmv ncds (cqy cofrqstqi sf ofvm sjcq $8.5 otnntfqd) jcam mgummymy
sjm urvvmqs mglmqdmd fh sjm Ifamvqomqs, tqunrytqi sjm tqsmvmds fq sjm
lrwntu ymws. Hfv sjm lrvlfdm fh vmtowrvdtqi cs sjm mqy fh sjm kmcv $3.75
otnntfqd fh sjm lvtqutlcn, c nfcq, cd crsjfvtxmy wk ncp, jcy wmmq
qmifstcsmy sf sjcs cofrqs, wrs jcd dtqum wmmq vmyrumy sf $2.75 otnntfqd,
sjm vmyrustfq wmtqi lmvotssmy wk sjm dscsm fh sjm Svmcdrvk, tq pjtuj sjmvm
ptnn wm c wcncqum vmoctqtqi cs sjm mqy fh sjm kmcv mdstocsmy cs $2
otnntfqd. Hfv sjm lvfwcwnm vmumtlsd fh sjm qmgs kmcv cqy fsjmv ymsctnd T
vmhmv sf dscsmomqsd pjtuj ptnn wm svcqdotssmy hvfo sjm Svmcdrvk, cqy pjtuj
ptnn mqcwnm kfr sf bryim pjcs hrvsjmv lvfatdtfqd ock wm qmumddcvk hfv sjm
mqdrtqi kmcvd.

Vmdmvatqi hfv hrsrvm fuucdtfqd tq sjm ufrvdm fh sjm dmddtfq pjcsmamv fsjmv
ufoorqtucstfqd ock uncto kfrv cssmqstfq, T unfdm sjm lvmdmqs wk mglvmddtqi
ok vmntcqum, rqymv sjm wnmddtqi fh Ytatqm Lvfatymqum, fq sjm bryimomqs cqy
lcsvtfstdo pjtuj ptnn irtym kfrv omcdrvmd cs c lmvtfy lcvsturncvnk ucnntqi
hfv rqtsmy ufrqutnd cqy hnmgtwnm mgmvstfqd hfv sjm pmnhcvm fh frv ufrqsvk,
cqy wk cddrvtqi kfr fh sjm htymntsk cqy cncuvtsk ptsj pjtuj ok ufflmvcstfq
ptnn wm chhfvymy.