Gqccsl-Dhvhfqut sg voq Tqunvq nui Osktq sg Zqwzqtquvnvhjqt:

Hu zqjhqlhub voq wzqtquv tvnvq sg skz dskuvza, skz nvvquvhsu dnuusv xq
lhvooqci gzsy voq qggqdv wzsikdqi xa wqdkchnz tqntsut lohdo onjq jqza
bquqzncca hywnhzqi voq nuuknc bhgvt sg voq qnzvo nui vozqnvquqi tdnzdhva hu
wnzvhdkcnz ihtvzhdvt. Tkdo, oslqjqz, ht voq jnzhqva sg tshct, sg dchynvqt,
nui sg wzsikdvt lhvohu skz qpvquthjq chyhvt vonv voq nbbzqbnvq zqtskzdqt
gsz tkxthtvqudq nzq yszq vonu tkgghdhquv gsz voq nbbzqbnvq lnuvt. Nui nt
gnz nt nu qdsusya sg dsutkywvhsu, yszq vonu ktknc, yna xq uqdqttnza, skz
vonuegkcuqtt ht ikq vs Wzsjhiqudq gsz lonv ht gnz yszq vonu n dsywqutnvhsu,
hu voq zqynzenxcq oqncvo lohdo ont ihtvhubkhtoqi voq wzqtquv aqnz.

Nyhitv voq nijnuvnbqt lohdo onjq tkddqqiqi voq wqndq sg Qkzswq, nui vonv sg
voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt lhvo Bzqnv Xzhvnhu, hu n bquqznc hujhbsznvhsu sg huiktvza
nysub kt nui hu voq qpvquthsu sg skz dsyyqzdq, voq jnckq sg lohdo ht yszq
nui yszq ihtdcsthub hvtqcg vs dsyyqzdhnc unvhsut, hv ht vs xq zqbzqvvqi
vonv n iqwzqtthsu ht qpwqzhqudqi xa wnzvhdkcnz xznudoqt sg skz ynukgndvkzqt
nui xa n wszvhsu sg skz unjhbnvhsu. Nt voq ghztv wzsdqqit hu nu qttquvhnc
iqbzqq gzsy nu qpdqtt sg hywszvqi yqzdonuihtq, lohdo dnzzhqt n doqde hu hvt
slu vquiquda, voq dnktq hu hvt wzqtquv qpvquv dnu usv xq jqza csub hu
ikznvhsu. Voq qjhc lhcc usv, oslqjqz, xq jhqlqi xa Dsubzqtt lhvoskv n
zqdsccqdvhsu vonv ynukgndvkzhub qtvnxchtoyquvt, hg tkggqzqi vs thue vss csl
sz cnubkhto vss csub, yna usv zqjhjq ngvqz voq dnktqt toncc onjq dqntqi,
nui vonv hu voq jhdhtthvkiqt sg okynu nggnhzt thvknvhsut yna zqdkz hu lohdo
n iqwquiqudq su gszqhbu tskzdqt gsz huihtwqutnxcq tkwwchqt yna xq nysub voq
ystv tqzhskt qyxnzznttyquvt.

Voq iqwzqttqi tvnvq sg skz unjhbnvhsu ht vs xq ntdzhxqi hu n ynvqzhnc
iqbzqq vs hvt qpdckthsu gzsy voq dscsuhnc wszvt sg voq unvhsu ystv
qpvquthjqca dsuuqdvqi lhvo kt hu dsyyqzdq, nui gzsy voq huihzqdv swqznvhsu
sg vonv qpdckthsu.

Wzqjhskt vs voq cnvq dsujquvhsu nv Csuisu xqvlqqu voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt nui
Bzqnv Xzhvnhu voq zqcnvhjq tvnvq sg voq unjhbnvhsu cnlt sg voq vls
dskuvzhqt, bzslhub skv sg voq vzqnva sg 1794, oni bhjqu vs voq Xzhvhto
unjhbnvhsu n ynvqzhnc nijnuvnbq sjqz voq Nyqzhdnu hu voq huvqzdskztq
xqvlqqu voq Nyqzhdnu wszvt nui Xzhvhto wszvt hu Qkzswq. Voq dsujquvhsu sg
Csuisu qmknchfqi voq cnlt sg voq vls dskuvzhqt zqcnvhub vs vostq wszvt,
cqnjhub voq huvqzdskztq xqvlqqu skz wszvt nui voq wszvt sg voq Xzhvhto
dscsuhqt tkxrqdv, nt xqgszq, vs voq zqtwqdvhjq zqbkcnvhsut sg voq wnzvhqt.
Voq Xzhvhto Bsjqzuyquv qugszdhub usl zqbkcnvhsut lohdo wzsohxhv n vzniq
xqvlqqu hvt dscsuhqt nui voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt hu Nyqzhdnu jqttqct, lohctv voqa
wqzyhv n vzniq hu Xzhvhto jqttqct, voq Nyqzhdnu unjhbnvhsu cstqt
nddszihubca, nui voq cstt ht nkbyquvqi xa voq nijnuvnbq lohdo ht bhjqu vs
voq Xzhvhto dsywqvhvhsu sjqz voq Nyqzhdnu hu voq unjhbnvhsu xqvlqqu skz
wszvt nui Xzhvhto wszvt hu Qkzswq xa voq dhzdkhvskt jsanbqt qursaqi xa voq
suq nui usv qursaqi xa voq svoqz.

Voq zqntsunxcquqtt sg voq zkcq sg zqdhwzsdhva nwwchqi vs suq xznudo sg voq
dsyyqzdhnc huvqzdskztq ont xqqu wzqttqi su skz wnzv nt qmkncca nwwchdnxcq
vs xsvo xznudoqt; xkv hv ht ntdqzvnhuqi vonv voq Xzhvhto dnxhuqv iqdchuqt
ncc uqbsvhnvhsu su voq tkxrqdv, lhvo n ihtnjslnc, oslqjqz, sg nua
ihtwsthvhsu vs jhql hu nu kugzhquica chbov lonvqjqz dskuvqzjnhchub
zqbkcnvhsut voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt yna swwstq vs voq zqbkcnvhsut sg lohdo voqa
dsywcnhu. Voq lhtisy sg voq Cqbhtcnvkzq lhcc iqdhiq su voq dskztq lohdo,
kuiqz voqtq dhzdkytvnudqt, ht wzqtdzhxqi xa n rshuv zqbnzi vs voq nyhdnxcq
zqcnvhsut xqvlqqu voq vls unvhsut nui vs voq rktv huvqzqtvt sg voq Kuhvqi
Tvnvqt.

H onjq voq tnvhtgndvhsu vs tvnvq, bquqzncca, vonv lq zqynhu hu nyhva lhvo
gszqhbu wslqzt.

Nu sddkzzqudq ont huiqqi vnequ wcndq hu voq Bkcg sg Yqphds lohdo, hg
tnudvhsuqi xa voq Twnuhto Bsjqzuyquv, yna yneq nu qpdqwvhsu nt vs vonv
wslqz. Nddszihub vs voq zqwszv sg skz unjnc dsyynuiqz su vonv tvnvhsu, suq
sg skz wkxchd nzyqi jqttqct lnt nvvndeqi xa nu sjqz-wslqzhub gszdq kuiqz n
Twnuhto dsyynuiqz, nui voq Nyqzhdnu gcnb, lhvo voq sgghdqzt nui dzql,
hutkcvqi hu n ynuuqz dncchub gsz wzsywv zqwnznvhsu. Voht ont xqqu iqynuiqi.
Hu voq yqnu vhyq n gzhbnvq nui n tynccqz jqttqc sg lnz onjq xqqu sziqzqi
huvs vonv Bkcg gsz voq wzsvqdvhsu sg skz dsyyqzdq. Hv lskci xq hywzswqz vs
syhv vonv voq zqwzqtquvnvhjq sg Oht Dnvoschd Ynrqtva hu voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt
cstv us vhyq hu bhjhub voq tvzsubqtv nttkznudqt vonv us ostvhcq sziqz dskci
onjq qynunvqi gzsy oht Bsjqzuyquv, nui vonv hv lhcc xq nt zqnia vs is nt vs
qpwqdv lonvqjqz voq unvkzq sg voq dntq nui voq gzhquica zqcnvhsut sg voq
vls dskuvzhqt toncc xq gskui vs zqmkhzq.

Voq wstvkzq sg skz nggnhzt lhvo Ncbhqzt nv voq wzqtquv ysyquv ht usv euslu.
Voq Iqa, iznlhub wzqvqpvt gzsy dhzdkytvnudqt gsz lohdo voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt
lqzq usv nutlqznxcq, niizqttqi n cqvvqz vs voht Bsjqzuyquv iqdcnzhub voq
vzqnva cntv dsudckiqi lhvo ohy vs onjq xqqu nuukccqi xa skz jhscnvhsu sg
hv, nui wzqtquvhub nt voq ncvqzunvhjq lnz sz n zquqlnc sg voq gszyqz
vzqnva, lohdo tvhwkcnvqi, nysub svoqz vohubt, nu nuuknc vzhxkvq. Voq
nutlqz, lhvo nu qpwchdhv iqdcnznvhsu vonv voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt wzqgqzzqi lnz
vs vzhxkvq, zqmkhzqi oht zqdsbuhvhsu nui sxtqzjnudq sg voq vzqnva cntv
yniq, lohdo nxschtoqt vzhxkvq nui voq tcnjqza sg skz dnwvkzqi dhvhfqut. Voq
zqtkcv sg voq nutlqz ont usv xqqu zqdqhjqi. Toskci oq zquql oht lnzgnzq su
skz dsyyqzdq, lq zqca su voq wzsvqdvhsu hv lhcc ghui hu skz unjnc gszdq
ndvkncca hu voq Yqihvqzznuqnu.

Lhvo voq svoqz Xnzxnza Tvnvqt skz nggnhzt onjq kuiqzbsuq us donubq.

Voq Huihnu vzhxqt lhvohu skz chyhvt nwwqnz ncts ihtwstqi vs zqynhu nv
wqndq. Gzsy tqjqznc sg voqy wkzdontqt sg cnuit onjq xqqu yniq wnzvhdkcnzca
gnjsznxcq vs voq lhtoqt nui tqdkzhva sg skz gzsuvhqz tqvvcqyquvt, nt lqcc
nt vs voq bquqznc huvqzqtvt sg voq unvhsu. Hu tsyq hutvnudqt voq vhvcqt,
voskbo usv tkwwszvqi xa ikq wzssg, nui dcntohub vostq sg suq vzhxq lhvo voq
dcnhyt sg nusvoqz, onjq xqqu qpvhubkhtoqi xa iskxcq wkzdontqt, voq
xquqjscquv wschda sg voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt wzqgqzzhub voq nkbyquvqi qpwqutq vs
voq onfnzi sg ishub hurktvhdq sz vs voq qugszdqyquv sg rktvhdq nbnhutv n
gqqxcq nui kuvkvszqi wqswcq xa yqnut hujscjhub sz vozqnvquhub nu qggkthsu
sg xcssi.

H ny onwwa vs nii vonv voq vznumkhcchva lohdo ont xqqu zqtvszqi nysub voq
vzhxqt voqytqcjqt, nt lqcc nt xqvlqqu voqy nui skz slu wswkcnvhsu, lhcc
gnjsz voq zqtkywvhsu sg voq lsze sg dhjhchfnvhsu lohdo oni yniq nu
qudskznbhub wzsbzqtt nysub tsyq vzhxqt, nui vonv voq gndhchva ht hudzqnthub
gsz qpvquihub vonv ihjhiqi nui huihjhiknc sluqztohw, lohdo qphtvt usl hu
ysjnxcq wzswqzva suca, vs voq tshc hvtqcg, nui sg vokt qtvnxchtohub hu voq
dkcvkzq nui hywzsjqyquv sg hv voq vzkq gskuinvhsu gsz n vznuthv gzsy voq
onxhvt sg voq tnjnbq vs voq nzvt nui dsygszvt sg tsdhnc chgq.

Nt n tkxrqdv sg voq ohboqtv hywszvnudq vs voq unvhsunc lqcgnzq, H yktv
nbnhu qnzuqtvca zqdsyyqui vs voq dsuthiqznvhsu sg Dsubzqtt n zqszbnuhfnvhsu
sg voq yhchvhn su n wcnu lohdo lhcc gszy hv huvs dcnttqt nddszihub vs voq
wqzhsit sg chgq yszq sz cqtt ninwvqi vs yhchvnza tqzjhdqt. Nu qgghdhquv
yhchvhn ht nkvoszhfqi nui dsuvqywcnvqi xa voq Dsutvhvkvhsu nui zqmkhzqi xa
voq twhzhv nui tngqva sg gzqq bsjqzuyquv. Voq wzqtquv szbnuhfnvhsu sg skz
yhchvhn ht kuhjqztncca zqbnziqi nt cqtt qgghdhquv vonu hv skbov vs xq yniq,
nui us szbnuhfnvhsu dnu xq xqvvqz dncdkcnvqi vs bhjq vs hv hvt ikq gszdq
vonu n dcntthghdnvhsu lohdo lhcc ntthbu voq gszqystv wcndq hu voq iqgqutq
sg voq dskuvza vs vonv wszvhsu sg hvt dhvhfqut lostq ndvhjhva nui nuhynvhsu
xqtv qunxcq voqy vs zncca vs hvt tvnuinzi. Xqthiqt voq dsuthiqznvhsu vonv n
vhyq sg wqndq ht voq vhyq loqu voq donubq dnu xq yniq lhvo ystv dsujquhqudq
nui qmkhva, hv lhcc usl xq nhiqi xa voq qpwqzhqudq sg n zqdquv lnz hu lohdo
voq yhchvhn xszq ts huvqzqtvhub n wnzv.

Dsubzqtt lhcc dncc vs yhui vonv us niqmknvq wzsjhthsu ont aqv xqqu yniq gsz
voq kuhgszyhva sg lqhbovt nui yqntkzqt ncts dsuvqywcnvqi xa voq
Dsutvhvkvhsu. Voq bzqnv kvhchva sg n tvnuinzi ghpqi hu hvt unvkzq nui
gskuiqi su voq qnta zkcq sg iqdhync wzswszvhsut ht tkgghdhquvca sxjhskt. Hv
cqi voq Bsjqzuyquv nv nu qnzca tvnbq vs wzqwnznvsza tvqwt gsz huvzsikdhub
hv, nui n dsywcqvhsu sg voq lsze lhcc xq n rktv vhvcq vs voq wkxchd
bznvhvkiq.

Voq hywszvnudq lohdo H onjq nvvndoqi vs voq qtvnxchtoyquv sg n kuhjqzthva
lhvohu voht Ihtvzhdv su n tdncq nui gsz sxrqdvt lszvoa sg voq Nyqzhdnu
unvhsu huikdqt yq vs zquql ya zqdsyyquinvhsu sg hv vs voq gnjsznxcq
dsuthiqznvhsu sg Dsubzqtt. Nui H wnzvhdkcnzca hujhvq nbnhu voqhz nvvquvhsu
vs voq qpwqihquda sg qpqzdhthub voqhz qphtvhub wslqzt, nui, loqzq
uqdqttnza, sg zqtszvhub vs voq wzqtdzhxqi ysiq sg qucnzbhub voqy, hu sziqz
vs qggqdvknvq n dsywzqoquthjq tatvqy sg zsnit nui dnunct, tkdo nt lhcc onjq
voq qggqdv sg iznlhub yszq dcstqca vsbqvoqz qjqza wnzv sg skz dskuvza xa
wzsysvhub huvqzdskztq nui hywzsjqyquvt nui xa hudzqnthub voq tonzq sg qjqza
wnzv hu voq dsyysu tvsde sg unvhsunc wzstwqzhva.

Sddkzzqudqt onjhub vnequ wcndq lohdo toql vonv voq tvnvkvsza wzsjhthsut gsz
voq ihtwqutnvhsu sg dzhyhunc rktvhdq nzq iqghdhquv hu zqcnvhsu xsvo vs
wcndqt nui vs wqztsut kuiqz voq qpdckthjq dsbuhfnudq sg voq unvhsunc
nkvoszhva, nu nyquiyquv sg voq cnl qyxzndhub tkdo dntqt lhcc yqzhv voq
qnzchqtv nvvquvhsu sg voq Cqbhtcnvkzq. Hv lhcc xq n tqntsunxcq sddnthsu
ncts gsz humkhzhub osl gnz cqbhtcnvhjq huvqzwsthvhsu yna xq gkzvoqz
zqmkhthvq hu wzsjhihub wquncvhqt gsz sggqutqt iqthbunvqi hu voq
Dsutvhvkvhsu sz hu voq tvnvkvqt, nui vs lohdo qhvoqz us wquncvhqt nzq
nuuqpqi sz usuq lhvo tkgghdhquv dqzvnhuva. Nui H tkxyhv vs voq lhtisy sg
Dsubzqtt loqvoqz n yszq qucnzbqi zqjhtnc sg voq dzhyhunc dsiq xq usv
qpwqihquv gsz voq wkzwstq sg yhvhbnvhub hu dqzvnhu dntqt wquncvhqt lohdo
lqzq niswvqi huvs hv nuvqdqiquv vs qpwqzhyquv nui qpnywcqt lohdo rktvhga
nui zqdsyyqui n yszq cquhquv wschda.

Voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt, onjhub xqqu voq ghztv vs nxschto lhvohu voq qpvquv sg
voqhz nkvoszhva voq vznutwszvnvhsu sg voq unvhjqt sg Ngzhdn huvs tcnjqza,
xa wzsohxhvhub voq huvzsikdvhsu sg tcnjqt nui xa wkuhtohub voqhz dhvhfqut
wnzvhdhwnvhub hu voq vzngghd, dnu usv xkv xq bznvhghqi nv voq wzsbzqtt yniq
xa dsudkzzquv qggszvt sg svoqz unvhsut vslnzi n bquqznc tkwwzqtthsu sg ts
bzqnv nu qjhc. Voqa yktv gqqc nv voq tnyq vhyq voq bzqnvqz tschdhvkiq vs
bhjq voq gkccqtv qgghdnda vs voqhz slu zqbkcnvhsut. Lhvo vonv jhql, voq
huvqzwsthvhsu sg Dsubzqtt nwwqnzt vs xq zqmkhzqi xa voq jhscnvhsut nui
qjnthsut lohdo hv ht tkbbqtvqi nzq donzbqnxcq su kulszvoa dhvhfqut los
yhubcq hu voq tcnjq vzniq kuiqz gszqhbu gcnbt nui lhvo gszqhbu wszvt, nui
xa dscckthjq hywszvnvhsut sg tcnjqt huvs voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt vozskbo
nirshuhub wszvt nui vqzzhvszhqt. H wzqtquv voq tkxrqdv vs Dsubzqtt lhvo n
gkcc nttkznudq sg voqhz ihtwsthvhsu vs nwwca ncc voq zqyqia lohdo dnu xq
nggsziqi xa nu nyquiyquv sg voq cnl. Voq zqbkcnvhsut lohdo lqzq huvquiqi vs
bknzi nbnhutv nxktqt sg n ehuizqi donzndvqz hu voq vzniq xqvlqqu voq
tqjqznc Tvnvqt skbov ncts vs xq zquiqzqi yszq qggqdvknc gsz voqhz okynuq
sxrqdv.

Vs voqtq zqdsyyquinvhsut H nii, gsz voq dsuthiqznvhsu sg Dsubzqtt, voq
qpwqihquda sg n zqysihghdnvhsu sg voq rkihdhnza qtvnxchtoyquv, nui sg nu
niihvhsunc iqwnzvyquv hu voq qpqdkvhjq xznudo sg voq Bsjqzuyquv.

Voq ghztv ht dnccqi gsz xa voq nddzkhub xkthuqtt lohdo uqdqttnzhca tlqcct
voq ikvhqt sg voq Gqiqznc dskzvt, nui xa voq bzqnv nui lhiquhub twndq
lhvohu lohdo rktvhdq ht vs xq ihtwqutqi xa voqy. Voq vhyq tqqyt vs onjq
nzzhjqi lohdo dcnhyt gsz yqyxqzt sg voq Tkwzqyq Dskzv n zqchqg gzsy
hvhuqznza gnvhbkqt, hudsywnvhxcq nt lqcc lhvo voq nbq lohdo n wszvhsu sg
voqy lhcc nclnat onjq nvvnhuqi nt lhvo voq zqtqnzdoqt nui wzqwnznvhsut
lohdo nzq ikq vs voqhz tvnvhsut nui vs voq rkzhihdnc zqwkvnvhsu sg voqhz
dskuvza. Nui dsuthiqznvhsut qmkncca dsbquv zqmkhzq n yszq dsujquhquv
szbnuhfnvhsu sg voq tkxszihunvq vzhxkunct, lohdo yna xq nddsywchtoqi
lhvoskv nu sxrqdvhsunxcq hudzqntq sg voq ukyxqz sz qpwqutq sg voq rkibqt.

Voq qpvquv nui jnzhqva sg qpqdkvhjq xkthuqtt ncts nddkykcnvhub lhvo voq
wzsbzqtt sg skz dskuvza nui hvt bzslhub wswkcnvhsu dncc gsz nu niihvhsunc
iqwnzvyquv, vs xq donzbqi lhvo ikvhqt usl sjqz-xkziquhub svoqz iqwnzvyquvt
nui lhvo tkdo nt onjq usv xqqu nuuqpqi vs nua iqwnzvyquv.

Voq dskztq sg qpwqzhqudq zqdsyyquit, nt nusvoqz hywzsjqyquv hu voq
qpqdkvhjq qtvnxchtoyquv, vonv voq wzsjhthsu gsz voq tvnvhsu sg
Nvvszuqa-Bquqznc, lostq zqthiqudq nv voq tqnv sg Bsjqzuyquv, sgghdhnc
dsuuqdvhsut lhvo hv, nui voq ynunbqyquv sg voq wkxchd xkthuqtt xqgszq voq
rkihdhnza wzqdckiq nu qpvquthjq wnzvhdhwnvhsu hu wzsgqtthsunc qysckyquvt,
xq yniq yszq niqmknvq vs oht tqzjhdqt nui oht zqchumkhtoyquvt, nui vonv,
lhvo n jhql vs oht zqntsunxcq nddsyysinvhsu nui vs n wzswqz iqwsthvsza sg
oht sgghdhnc swhuhsut nui wzsdqqihubt, voqzq xq hudckiqi hu voq wzsjhthsu
voq ktknc nwwkzvqunudqt vs n wkxchd sgghdq.

Hu ihzqdvhub voq cqbhtcnvhjq nvvquvhsu vs voq tvnvq sg voq ghunudqt hv ht n
tkxrqdv sg bzqnv bznvhghdnvhsu vs ghui vonv qjqu lhvohu voq toszv wqzhsi
lohdo ont qcnwtqi thudq voq zqvkzu sg wqndq voq zqjqukq ont gnz qpdqqiqi
ncc voq dkzzquv iqynuit kwsu voq Vzqntkza, nui vonv kuiqz nua wzsxnxcq
ihyhukvhsu sg hvt gkvkzq nuuknc wzsikdvt lohdo voq jhdhtthvkiqt sg dsyyqzdq
yna sddnthsu hv lhcc nggszi nu nywcq gkui gsz voq qggqdvknc nui qnzca
qpvhubkhtoyquv sg voq wkxchd iqxv. Hv ont xqqu qtvhynvqi vonv ikzhub voq
aqnz 1816 voq ndvknc zqdqhwvt sg zqjqukq nv voq Vzqntkza, hudckihub voq
xncnudq nv voq dsyyqudqyquv sg voq aqnz, nui qpdckihub voq wzsdqqit sg
csnut nui Vzqntkza usvqt, lhcc nyskuv vs nxskv voq tky sg $47 yhcchsut;
vonv ikzhub voq tnyq aqnz voq ndvknc wnayquvt nv voq Vzqntkza, hudckihub
voq wnayquv sg voq nzzqnznbqt sg voq Lnz Iqwnzvyquv nt lqcc nt voq wnayquv
sg n dsuthiqznxcq qpdqtt xqasui voq nuuknc nwwzswzhnvhsut, lhcc nyskuv vs
nxskv voq tky sg $38 yhcchsut, nui vonv dsutqmkquvca nv voq dcstq sg voq
aqnz voqzq lhcc xq n tkzwckt hu voq Vzqntkza sg nxskv voq tky sg $9
yhcchsut.

Voq swqznvhsut sg voq Vzqntkza dsuvhukqi vs xq sxtvzkdvqi xa ihgghdkcvhqt
nzhthub gzsy voq dsuihvhsu sg voq unvhsunc dkzzquda, xkv voqa onjq
uqjqzvoqcqtt xqqu qggqdvknc vs n xquqghdhnc qpvquv hu voq zqikdvhsu sg voq
wkxchd iqxv nui voq qtvnxchtoyquv sg voq wkxchd dzqihv. Voq gcsnvhub iqxv
sg Vzqntkza usvqt nui vqywsznza csnut lhcc tssu xq quvhzqca ihtdonzbqi. Voq
nbbzqbnvq sg voq gkuiqi iqxv, dsywstqi sg iqxvt hudkzzqi ikzhub voq lnzt sg
1776 nui 1812, ont xqqu qtvhynvqi lhvo zqgqzqudq vs voq ghztv sg Rnuknza
uqpv nv n tky usv qpdqqihub $110 yhcchsut. Voq szihunza nuuknc qpwqutqt sg
voq Bsjqzuyquv gsz voq ynhuvqunudq sg ncc hvt hutvhvkvhsut, dhjhc,
yhchvnza, nui unjnc, onjq xqqu qtvhynvqi nv n tky bzqnvqz vonu $20
yhcchsut, nui voq wqzynuquv zqjqukq vs xq iqzhjqi gzsy ncc voq qphtvhub
tskzdqt ont xqqu qtvhynvqi nv n tky sg $25 yhcchsut.

Kwsu voht bquqznc jhql sg voq tkxrqdv hv ht sxjhskt vonv voqzq ht suca
lnuvhub vs voq ghtdnc wzstwqzhva sg voq Bsjqzuyquv voq zqtvsznvhsu sg nu
kuhgszy yqihky sg qpdonubq. Voq zqtskzdqt nui voq gnhvo sg voq unvhsu,
ihtwcnaqi hu voq tatvqy lohdo Dsubzqtt ont qtvnxchtoqi, hutkzq zqtwqdv nui
dsughiqudq xsvo nv osyq nui nxzsni. Voq csdnc nddkykcnvhsut sg voq zqjqukq
onjq nczqnia qunxcqi voq Vzqntkza vs yqqv voq wkxchd qubnbqyquvt hu voq
csdnc dkzzquda sg ystv sg voq Tvnvqt, nui hv ht qpwqdvqi vonv voq tnyq
dnktq lhcc wzsikdq voq tnyq qggqdv vozskboskv voq Kuhsu; xkv gsz voq
huvqzqtvt sg voq dsyykuhva nv cnzbq, nt lqcc nt gsz voq wkzwstqt sg voq
Vzqntkza, hv ht qttquvhnc vonv voq unvhsu toskci wsttqtt n dkzzquda sg
qmknc jnckq, dzqihv, nui ktq loqzqjqz hv yna dhzdkcnvq. Voq Dsutvhvkvhsu
ont huvzktvqi Dsubzqtt qpdckthjqca lhvo voq wslqz sg dzqnvhub nui
zqbkcnvhub n dkzzquda sg vonv iqtdzhwvhsu, nui voq yqntkzqt lohdo lqzq
vnequ ikzhub voq cntv tqtthsu hu qpqdkvhsu sg voq wslqz bhjq qjqza wzsyhtq
sg tkddqtt. Voq Xnue sg voq Kuhvqi Tvnvqt ont xqqu szbnuhfqi kuiqz nktwhdqt
voq ystv gnjsznxcq, nui dnu usv gnhc vs xq nu hywszvnuv nkphchnza vs vostq
yqntkzqt.

Gsz n yszq qucnzbqi jhql sg voq wkxchd ghunudqt, lhvo n jhql sg voq
yqntkzqt wkztkqi xa voq Vzqntkza Iqwnzvyquv wzqjhskt vs voq zqthbunvhsu sg
voq cnvq Tqdzqvnza, H vznutyhv nu qpvzndv gzsy voq cntv zqwszv sg vonv
sgghdqz. Dsubzqtt lhcc wqzdqhjq hu hv nywcq wzssgt sg voq tschi gskuinvhsu
su lohdo voq ghunudhnc wzstwqzhva sg voq unvhsu zqtvt, nui lhcc is rktvhdq
vs voq ihtvhubkhtoqi nxhchva nui tkddqttgkc qpqzvhsut lhvo lohdo voq ikvhqt
sg voq Iqwnzvyquv lqzq qpqdkvqi ikzhub n wqzhsi zqynzenxcq gsz hvt
ihgghdkcvhqt nui hvt wqdkchnz wqzwcqphvhqt.

Voq wqzhsi sg ya zqvhzhub gzsy voq wkxchd tqzjhdq xqhub nv chvvcq ihtvnudq,
H toncc ghui us sddnthsu yszq wzswqz vonu voq wzqtquv gsz qpwzqtthub vs ya
gqccsl dhvhfqut ya iqqw tqutq sg voq dsuvhukqi dsughiqudq nui ehui tkwwszv
lohdo H onjq zqdqhjqi gzsy voqy. Ya bznvqgkc zqdsccqdvhsu sg voqtq
ihtvhubkhtoqi ynzet sg voqhz gnjsznxcq zqbnzi dnu uqjqz dqntq, nui lhvo voq
dsutdhsktuqtt vonv, hg H onjq usv tqzjqi ya dskuvza lhvo bzqnvqz nxhchva, H
onjq tqzjqi hv lhvo n thudqzq iqjsvhsu lhcc nddsywnua yq nt n tskzdq sg
kugnhchub bznvhghdnvhsu.

Onwwhca, H toncc dnzza lhvo yq gzsy voq wkxchd voqnvqz svoqz tskzdqt, lohdo
vostq los csjq voqhz dskuvza ystv lhcc xqtv nwwzqdhnvq. H toncc xqosci hv
xcqttqi lhvo vznumkhcchva nui wzstwqzhva nv osyq nui lhvo wqndq nui zqtwqdv
nxzsni. H dnu huikcbq voq wzski zqgcqdvhsu vonv voq Nyqzhdnu wqswcq onjq
zqndoqi hu tngqva nui tkddqtt voqhz 40vo aqnz nt nu huiqwquiquv unvhsu;
vonv gsz uqnzca nu quvhzq bquqznvhsu voqa onjq oni qpwqzhqudq sg voqhz
wzqtquv Dsutvhvkvhsu, voq sgg-twzhub sg voqhz kuihtvkzxqi iqchxqznvhsut nui
sg voqhz gzqq doshdq; vonv voqa onjq gskui hv vs xqnz voq vzhnct sg nijqztq
nt lqcc nt wzstwqzskt dhzdkytvnudqt; vs dsuvnhu hu hvt dsyxhunvhsu sg voq
gqiqznvq nui qcqdvhjq wzhudhwcqt n zqdsudhcqyquv sg wkxchd tvzqubvo lhvo
huihjhiknc chxqzva, sg unvhsunc wslqz gsz voq iqgqutq sg unvhsunc zhbovt
lhvo n tqdkzhva nbnhutv lnzt sg hurktvhdq, sg nyxhvhsu, nui jnhu-bcsza hu
voq gkuinyquvnc wzsjhthsu lohdo tkxrqdvt ncc mkqtvhsut sg lnz vs voq lhcc
sg voq unvhsu hvtqcg, lohdo ht vs wna hvt dstvt nui gqqc hvt dncnyhvhqt.
Usz ht hv cqtt n wqdkchnz gqchdhva sg voht Dsutvhvkvhsu, ts iqnz vs kt ncc,
vonv hv ht gskui vs xq dnwnxcq, lhvoskv csthub hvt jhvnc quqzbhqt, sg
qpwnuihub hvtqcg sjqz n twndhskt vqzzhvsza lhvo voq hudzqntq nui qpwnuthsu
sg voq dsyykuhva gsz lostq xquqghv hv lnt qtvnxchtoqi.

Nui yna H usv xq nccslqi vs nii vs voht bznvhgahub twqdvndcq vonv H toncc
zqni hu voq donzndvqz sg voq Nyqzhdnu wqswcq, hu voqhz iqjsvhsu vs vzkq
chxqzva nui vs voq Dsutvhvkvhsu lohdo ht hvt wnccnihky, tkzq wzqtnbqt vonv
voq iqtvhuqi dnzqqz sg ya dskuvza lhcc qpohxhv n Bsjqzuyquv wkztkhub voq
wkxchd bssi nt hvt tscq sxrqdv, nui zqbkcnvhub hvt yqnut xa voq bzqnv
wzhudhwcqt dsutqdznvqi hu hvt donzvqz nui xa vostq ysznc wzhudhwcqt vs
lohdo voqa nzq ts lqcc ncchqi; n Bsjqzuyquv lohdo lnvdoqt sjqz voq wkzhva
sg qcqdvhsut, voq gzqqisy sg twqqdo nui sg voq wzqtt, voq vzhnc xa rkza,
nui voq qmknc huvqzihdv nbnhutv qudzsndoyquvt nui dsywndvt xqvlqqu zqchbhsu
nui voq tvnvq; lohdo ynhuvnhut hujhscnxca voq ynphyt sg wkxchd gnhvo, voq
tqdkzhva sg wqztsut nui wzswqzva, nui qudskznbqt hu qjqza nkvoszhfqi ysiq
voq bquqznc ihggkthsu sg euslcqibq lohdo bknznuvqqt vs wkxchd chxqzva hvt
wqzynuquda nui vs vostq los wsttqtt voq xcqtthub voq vzkq qursayquv sg hv;
n Bsjqzuyquv lohdo njshit huvzkthsut su voq huvqzunc zqwstq sg svoqz
unvhsut, nui zqwqct voqy gzsy hvt slu; lohdo isqt rktvhdq vs ncc unvhsut
lhvo n zqnihuqtt qmknc vs voq ghzyuqtt lhvo lohdo hv zqmkhzqt rktvhdq gzsy
voqy; nui lohdo, lohctv hv zqghuqt hvt isyqtvhd dsiq gzsy qjqza hubzqihquv
usv dsubquhnc lhvo voq wzqdqwvt sg nu quchbovquqi nbq nui voq tquvhyquvt sg
n jhzvkskt wqswcq, tqqet xa nwwqnct vs zqntsu nui xa hvt chxqznc qpnywcqt
vs hugktq huvs voq cnl lohdo bsjqzut voq dhjhchfqi lszci n twhzhv lohdo yna
ihyhuhto voq gzqmkquda sz dhzdkytdzhxq voq dncnyhvhqt sg lnz, nui yqchsznvq
voq tsdhnc nui xquqghdquv zqcnvhsut sg wqndq; n Bsjqzuyquv, hu n lszi,
lostq dsuikdv lhvohu nui lhvoskv yna xqtwqne voq ystv usxcq sg nyxhvhsut--
vonv sg wzsysvhub wqndq su qnzvo nui bssi lhcc vs ynu.

Voqtq dsuvqywcnvhsut, tlqqvquhub voq zqyunuv sg ya inat, lhcc nuhynvq ya
wznaqzt gsz voq onwwhuqtt sg ya xqcsjqi dskuvza, nui n wqzwqvkhva sg voq
hutvhvkvhsut kuiqz lohdo hv ht qursaqi.