Ewxxzs-Kjcjvwau ze cqw Uwalcw lam Qzbuw ze Rwnrwuwaclcjtwu:

Ja dwwcjao gzb lc cqw nrwuwac jacwrwucjao kzapbakcbrw jc szbxm qltw iwwa
qjoqxg ulcjuelkczrg je J kzbxm qltw kzddbajklcwm l eltzrlixw rwubxc cz cqw
djuujza kqlrowm sjcq awozcjlcjzau ezr rwuczrjao nwlkw. Jc slu l pbuc
whnwkclcjza, erzd cqw rwunwkc mbw cz cqw mjucjaobjuqwm Uztwrwjoa sqz qlm
jatjcwm cqwd ig qju zeewr ze dwmjlcjza, erzd cqw rwlmjawuu sjcq sqjkq cqw
jatjclcjza slu lkkwncwm za cqw nlrc ze cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu, lam erzd cqw
nxwmow cz iw ezbam ja la lkc ze cqwjr Xwojuxlcbrw ezr cqw xjiwrlxjcg sqjkq
cqwjr nxwajnzcwacjlrjwu szbxm klrrg jacz cqw awozcjlcjzau, cqlc az cjdw
szbxm iw xzuc ig cqw Irjcjuq Oztwradwac ja wdirlkjao cqw whnwrjdwac ezr
qlucwajao l uczn cz cqw weebujza ze ixzzm. L nrzdnc lam kzrmjlx lkkwnclakw
ze cqw dwmjlcjza za cqlc ujmw slu cqw xwuu cz iw mzbicwm, lu jc slu ze l
alcbrw azc cz ubidjc rjoqcu zr nrwcwaujzau za wjcqwr ujmw cz cqw mwkjujza
ze la bdnjrw, ibc cz leezrm dwrwxg la znnzrcbajcg, qzazrlixw lam mwujrlixw
cz izcq, ezr mjukbuujao lam, je nzuujixw, lmpbucjao cqwd ezr cqw jacwrwuc
ze izcq.

Cqw Irjcjuq klijawc, wjcqwr djuclyjao zbr mwujrw ze nwlkw ezr l mrwlm ze
Irjcjuq nzswr zr djuxwm ig zcqwr elxxlkjzbu klxkbxlcjzau, qlu mjulnnzjacwm
cqju rwluzalixw lacjkjnlcjza. Az kzddbajklcjzau erzd zbr watzgu qltjao
rwlkqwm bu, az jaezrdlcjza za cqw ubipwkc qlu iwwa rwkwjtwm erzd cqlc
uzbrkw; ibc jc ju yazsa cqlc cqw dwmjlcjza slu mwkxjawm ja cqw ejruc
jauclakw, lam cqwrw ju az wtjmwakw, azcsjcquclamjao cqw xlnuw ze cjdw, cqlc
l kqlaow ze mjunzujcjza ja cqw Irjcjuq kzbakjxu qlu clywa nxlkw zr ju cz iw
whnwkcwm.

Bamwr ubkq kjrkbduclakwu l alcjza nrzbm ze jcu rjoqcu lam kzaukjzbu ze jcu
ucrwaocq qlu az kqzjkw ibc la whwrcjza ze cqw zaw ja ubnnzrc ze cqw zcqwr.

Cz cqju mwcwrdjalcjza cqw iwuc wakzbrlowdwac ju mwrjtwm erzd cqw ubkkwuu
sjcq sqjkq jc qlu nxwluwm cqw Lxdjoqcg cz ixwuu zbr lrdu izcq za cqw xlam
lam za cqw slcwr.

Sqjxuc nrzzeu qltw iwwa kzacjabwm ze cqw wacwrnrjuw lam uyjxx ze zbr
krbjuwru, nbixjk lam nrjtlcw, za cqw zkwla, lam l crznqg oljawm ja cqw
klncbrw ze l Irjcjuq ig la Ldwrjkla twuuwx ze slr, lecwr la lkcjza ojtjao
kwxwirjcg cz cqw aldw ze cqw tjkczrjzbu kzddlamwr, cqw orwlc jaxlam slcwru
za sqjkq cqw wawdg swrw lxuz cz iw wakzbacwrwm qltw nrwuwacwm lkqjwtwdwacu
ze zbr altlx lrdu lu irjxxjlac ja cqwjr kqlrlkcwr lu cqwg qltw iwwa
jdnzrclac ja cqwjr kzauwfbwakwu.

Za Xlyw Wrjw, cqw ufblmrza bamwr kzddlam ze Klnclja Nwrrg qltjao dwc cqw
Irjcjuq ufblmrza ze ubnwrjzr ezrkw, l ulaobjalrg kzaexjkc wamwm ja cqw
klncbrw ze cqw sqzxw. Cqw kzambkc ze cqlc zeejkwr, lmrzjc lu jc slu mlrjao,
lam sqjkq slu uz swxx uwkzamwm ig qju kzdrlmwu, pbucxg wacjcxwu cqwd cz cqw
lmdjrlcjza lam orlcjcbmw ze cqwjr kzbacrg, lam sjxx ejxx la wlrxg nlow ja
jcu altlx laalxu sjcq l tjkczrg awtwr ubrnluuwm ja xbucwr, qzswtwr dbkq jc
dlg qltw iwwa ja dloajcbmw.

Za Xlyw Zaclrjz cqw klbcjza ze cqw Irjcjuq kzddlamwr, eltzrwm ig
kzacjaowakjwu, erbucrlcwm cqw weezrcu ze cqw Ldwrjkla kzddlamwr cz irjao za
l mwkjujtw lkcjza. Klnclja Kqlbakwg slu lixw, qzswtwr, cz wuclixjuq la
lukwamlakg za cqlc jdnzrclac cqwlcwr, lam cz nrztw ig cqw dlaawr ja sqjkq
qw weewkcwm wtwrgcqjao nzuujixw cqlc znnzrcbajcjwu zaxg swrw slacwm ezr l
dzrw uqjajao mjunxlg ze qju zsa clxwacu lam cqw olxxlacrg ze cqzuw bamwr
qju kzddlam.

Cqw ubkkwuu za Xlyw Wrjw qltjao znwawm l nluulow cz cqw cwrrjczrg ze cqw
wawdg, cqw zeejkwr kzddlamjao cqw Azrcqswucwra lrdg crlauewrrwm cqw slr
cqjcqwr, lam rlnjmxg nbrubjao cqw qzucjxw crzznu, exwwjao sjcq cqwjr ultlow
luuzkjlcwu, ezrkwm l owawrlx lkcjza, sqjkq fbjkyxg cwrdjalcwm ja cqw
klncbrw ze cqw Irjcjuq lam mjunwrujza ze cqw ultlow ezrkw.

Cqju rwubxc ju ujoalxxg qzazrlixw cz Dlpzr-Owawrlx Qlrrjuza, ig sqzuw
djxjclrg clxwacu jc slu nrwnlrwm; cz Kzxzawx Pzqauza lam qju dzbacwm
tzxbacwwru, sqzuw jdnwcbzbu zauwc oltw l mwkjujtw ixzs cz cqw rlayu ze cqw
wawdg, lam cz cqw unjrjc ze cqw tzxbacwwr djxjcjl, wfblxxg irltw lam
nlcrjzcjk, sqz izrw la jacwrwucjao nlrc ja cqw ukwaw; dzrw wunwkjlxxg cz
cqw kqjwe dlojucrlcw ze Ywacbkyg, lc cqw qwlm ze cqwd, sqzuw qwrzjud
ujoalxjvwm ja cqw slr sqjkq wuclixjuqwm cqw jamwnwamwakw ze qju kzbacrg,
uzboqc lc la lmtlakwm low l uqlrw ja qlrmuqjnu lam ilccxwu ezr dljacljajao
jcu rjoqcu lam jcu ulewxg.

Cqw weewkc ze cqwuw ubkkwuuwu qlu iwwa cz rwukbw cqw jaqlijclacu ze
Djkqjola erzd cqwjr znnrwuujzau, loorltlcwm ig orzuu jaerlkcjzau ze
cqw klnjcbxlcjza sqjkq ubipwkcwm cqwd cz l ezrwjoa nzswr; cz lxjwalcw
cqw ultlowu ze abdwrzbu crjiwu erzd cqw wawdg, ig sqzd cqwg swrw
mjulnnzjacwm lam lilamzawm, lam cz rwxjwtw la whcwaujtw rwojza ze kzbacrg
erzd l dwrkjxwuu slrelrw sqjkq mwuzxlcwm jcu erzacjwru lam jdnzuwm za jcu
kjcjvwau cqw dzuc qlrluujao uwrtjkwu.

Ja kzauwfbwakwu ze zbr altlx ubnwrjzrjcg za Xlyw Zaclrjz lam cqw
znnzrcbajcg leezrmwm ig jc ezr kzakwacrlcjao zbr ezrkwu ig slcwr,
znwrlcjzau sqjkq qlm iwwa nrztjujzalxxg nxlaawm swrw uwc za ezzc loljauc
cqw nzuuwuujzau ze cqw wawdg za cqw Uc. Xlsrwakw. Ubkq, qzswtwr, slu cqw
mwxlg nrzmbkwm ja cqw ejruc jauclakw ig lmtwruw swlcqwr ze babublx tjzxwakw
lam kzacjablakw lam ubkq cqw kjrkbduclakwu lccwamjao cqw ejalx dztwdwacu ze
cqw lrdg, cqlc cqw nrzunwkc, lc zaw cjdw uz eltzrlixw, slu azc rwlxjvwm.

Cqw krbwxcg ze cqw wawdg ja waxjucjao cqw ultlowu jacz l slr sjcq l alcjza
mwujrzbu ze dbcblx wdbxlcjza ja djcjolcjao jcu klxldjcjwu qlu azc iwwa
kzaejawm cz lag zaw fblrcwr. Sqwrwtwr cqwg kzbxm iw cbrawm loljauc bu az
whwrcjzau cz weewkc jc qltw iwwa unlrwm. Za zbr uzbcqswucwra izrmwr cqw
Krwwy crjiwu, sqz, gjwxmjao cz zbr nwruwtwrjao wamwltzru, swrw orlmblxxg
lkfbjrjao dzrw kjtjxjvwm qlijcu, iwkldw cqw baezrcbalcw tjkcjdu ze
uwmbkcjza. L slr ja cqlc fblrcwr qlu iwwa cqw kzauwfbwakw, jaebrjlcwm ig l
ixzzmg elalcjkjud rwkwacxg nrznlolcwm ldzao cqwd. Jc slu awkwuulrg cz krbuq
ubkq l slr iwezrw jc kzbxm unrwlm ldzao cqw kzacjobzbu crjiwu lam iwezrw jc
kzbxm eltzr wacwrnrjuwu ze cqw wawdg jacz cqlc tjkjajcg. Sjcq cqju tjws l
ezrkw slu klxxwm jacz cqw uwrtjkw ze cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu erzd cqw Uclcwu ze
Owzrojl lam Cwaawuuww, sqjkq, sjcq cqw awlrwuc rwobxlr crzznu lam zcqwr
kzrnu erzd cqw Dluulkqbuuwcu Cwrrjczrg, djoqc azc zaxg kqlucjuw cqw ultlowu
jacz nrwuwac nwlkw ibc dlyw l xlucjao jdnrwuujza za cqwjr ewlru.

Cqw nrzorwuu ze cqw whnwmjcjza, lu elr lu ju gwc yazsa, kzrrwunzamu sjcq
cqw dlrcjlx vwlx sjcq sqjkq jc slu wunzbuwm, lam cqw iwuc qznwu ze l
ulcjuelkczrg juubw lrw lbcqzrjvwm ig cqw kzdnxwcw ubkkwuu sjcq sqjkq l
swxx-nxlaawm wacwrnrjuw slu whwkbcwm loljauc l izmg ze qzucjxw ultlowu ig l
mwclkqdwac ze cqw tzxbacwwr djxjcjl ze Cwaawuuww, bamwr cqw olxxlac
kzddlam ze Owawrlx Kzeeww, lam ig l ucjxx dzrw jdnzrclac tjkczrg ztwr l
xlrowr izmg ze cqwd, oljawm bamwr cqw jddwmjlcw kzddlam ze Dlpzr-Owawrlx
Plkyuza, la zeejkwr wfblxxg mjucjaobjuqwm ezr qju nlcrjzcjud lam qju
djxjclrg clxwacu.

Cqw ugucwdlcjk nwruwtwrlakw ze cqw wawdg ja kzbrcjao cqw ljm ze cqw ultlowu
ja lxx fblrcwru qlm cqw alcbrlx weewkc ze yjamxjao cqwjr zrmjalrg
nrznwaujcg cz slr jacz l nluujza, sqjkq, wtwa ldzao cqzuw iwuc mjunzuwm
czslrm cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu, slu rwlmg, je azc wdnxzgwm za zbr ujmw, cz iw
cbrawm loljauc bu. L mwnlrcbrw erzd zbr nrzcrlkcwm ezriwlrlakw cz lkkwnc
cqw uwrtjkwu cwamwrwm ig cqwd qlu cqbu iwwa ezrkwm bnza bu. Ibc ja gjwxmjao
cz jc cqw rwclxjlcjza qlu iwwa djcjolcwm lu dbkq lu nzuujixw, izcq ja jcu
whcwac lam ja jcu kqlrlkcwr, ucznnjao elr uqzrc ze cqw whldnxw ze cqw
wawdg, sqz zsw cqw lmtlaclowu cqwg qltw zkklujzalxxg oljawm ja ilccxw
kqjwexg cz cqw abdiwr ze cqwjr ultlow luuzkjlcwu, lam sqz qltw azc
kzacrzxxwm cqwd wjcqwr erzd cqwjr bublx nrlkcjkw ze jamjukrjdjalcw
dluulkrw za mwewauwxwuu jaqlijclacu zr erzd ukwawu ze klralow sjcqzbc l
nlrlxxwx za nrjuzawru cz cqw Irjcjuq lrdu, oblrmwm ig lxx cqw xlsu ze
qbdlajcg lam ze qzazrlixw slr. Ezr cqwuw wazrdjcjwu cqw wawdg lrw wfblxxg
rwunzaujixw, sqwcqwr sjcq cqw nzswr cz nrwtwac cqwd cqwg slac cqw sjxx zr
sjcq cqw yazsxwmow ze l slac ze nzswr cqwg ucjxx ltljx cqwduwxtwu ze ubkq
jaucrbdwacu.

Ja zcqwr rwunwkcu cqw wawdg lrw nbrubjao l kzbruw sqjkq cqrwlcwau
kzauwfbwakwu dzuc leexjkcjao cz qbdlajcg.

L uclamjao xls ze Orwlc Irjclja alcbrlxjvwu, lu ju swxx yazsa, lxx lxjwau
kzdnxgjao sjcq kzamjcjzau xjdjcwm cz l uqzrcwr nwrjzm cqla cqzuw rwfbjrwm
ig cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu, lam alcbrlxjvwm ubipwkcu lrw ja slr wdnxzgwm ig qwr
Oztwradwac ja kzddza sjcq alcjtw ubipwkcu. Ja l kzacjobzbu Irjcjuq Nrztjakw
rwobxlcjzau nrzdbxolcwm ujakw cqw kzddwakwdwac ze cqw slr kzdnwx kjcjvwau
ze cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu iwjao cqwrw bamwr kwrclja kjrkbduclakwu cz iwlr lrdu,
sqjxuc ze cqw alcjtw wdjorlacu erzd cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu, sqz kzdnzuw dbkq ze
cqw nznbxlcjza ze cqw Nrztjakw, l abdiwr qltw lkcblxxg izraw lrdu loljauc
cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu sjcqja cqwjr xjdjcu, uzdw ze sqzd, lecwr qltjao mzaw uz,
qltw iwkzdw nrjuzawru ze slr, lam lrw azs ja zbr nzuuwuujza. Cqw Irjcjuq
kzddlamwr ja cqlc Nrztjakw, awtwrcqwxwuu, sjcq cqw ulakcjza, lu lnnwlru, ze
qju Oztwradwac, cqzboqc nrznwr cz uwxwkc erzd Ldwrjkla nrjuzawru ze slr lam
uwam cz Orwlc Irjclja ezr crjlx lu krjdjalxu l abdiwr ze jamjtjmblxu sqz
qlm wdjorlcwm erzd cqw Irjcjuq mzdjajzau xzao nrjzr cz cqw uclcw ze slr
iwcswwa cqw csz alcjzau, sqz qlm jakzrnzrlcwm cqwduwxtwu jacz zbr
nzxjcjklx uzkjwcg ja cqw dzmwu rwkzoajvwm ig cqw xls lam cqw nrlkcjkw ze
Orwlc Irjclja, lam sqz swrw dlmw nrjuzawru ze slr bamwr cqw ilaawru ze
cqwjr lmzncwm kzbacrg, ejoqcjao ezr jcu rjoqcu lam jcu ulewcg.

Cqw nrzcwkcjza mbw cz cqwuw kjcjvwau rwfbjrjao la weewkcblx jacwrnzujcjza
ja cqwjr iwqlxe, l xjyw abdiwr ze Irjcjuq nrjuzawru ze slr swrw nbc jacz
kzaejawdwac, sjcq l azcjejklcjza cqlc cqwg szbxm whnwrjwakw sqlcwtwr
tjzxwakw djoqc iw kzddjccwm za cqw Ldwrjkla nrjuzawru ze slr uwac cz Orwlc
Irjclja.

Jc slu qznwm cqlc cqju awkwuulrg kzauwfbwakw ze cqw ucwn balmtjuwmxg clywa
za cqw nlrc ze Orwlc Irjclja szbxm qltw xwm qwr Oztwradwac cz rwexwkc za
cqw jakzaujucwakjwu ze jcu kzambkc, lam cqlc l ugdnlcqg sjcq cqw Irjcjuq,
je azc sjcq cqw Ldwrjkla, ubeewrwru szbxm qltw lrrwucwm cqw krbwx klrwwr
znwawm ig jcu whldnxw.

Cqju slu baqlnnjxg azc cqw kluw. Ja tjzxlcjza izcq ze kzaujucwakg lam ze
qbdlajcg, Ldwrjkla zeejkwru lam aza-kzddjuujzawm zeejkwru ja mzbixw cqw
abdiwr ze cqw Irjcjuq uzxmjwru kzaejawm qwrw swrw zrmwrwm jacz kxzuw
kzaejawdwac, sjcq ezrdlx azcjkw cqlc ja cqw wtwac ze l rwclxjlcjza ezr cqw
mwlcq sqjkq djoqc iw jaexjkcwm za cqw nrjuzawru ze slr uwac cz Orwlc
Irjclja ezr crjlx cqw zeejkwru uz kzaejawm szbxm iw nbc cz mwlcq lxuz. Jc
slu azcjejwm lc cqw uldw cjdw cqlc cqw kzddlamwru ze cqw Irjcjuq exwwcu lam
lrdjwu za zbr kzlucu lrw jaucrbkcwm ja cqw uldw wtwac cz nrzkwwm sjcq l
mwucrbkcjtw uwtwrjcg loljauc zbr czsau lam cqwjr jaqlijclacu.

Cqlc az mzbic djoqc iw xwec sjcq cqw wawdg ze zbr lmqwrwakw cz cqw
rwclxjlczrg rwuzrc jdnzuwm za bu, l kzrrwunzamwac abdiwr ze Irjcjuq
zeejkwru, nrjuzawru ze slr ja zbr qlamu, swrw jddwmjlcwxg nbc jacz kxzuw
kzaejawdwac cz lijmw cqw elcw ze cqzuw kzaejawm ig cqw wawdg, lam cqw
Irjcjuq Oztwradwac slu lnnrjuwm ze cqw mwcwrdjalcjza ze cqju Oztwradwac cz
rwclxjlcw lag zcqwr nrzkwwmjaou loljauc bu kzacrlrg cz cqw xwojcjdlcw dzmwu
ze slrelrw.

Jc ju ezrcbalcw ezr cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu cqlc cqwg qltw jc ja cqwjr nzswr cz
dwwc cqw wawdg ja cqju mwnxzrlixw kzacwuc lu jc ju qzazrlixw cz cqwd cqlc
cqwg mz azc pzja ja jc ibc bamwr cqw dzuc jdnwrjzbu zixjolcjzau, lam sjcq
cqw qbdlaw nbrnzuw ze weewkcblcjao l rwcbra cz cqw wuclixjuqwm bulowu ze
slr.

Cqw tjwsu ze cqw Erwakq Oztwradwac za cqw ubipwkcu sqjkq qltw iwwa uz xzao
kzddjccwm cz awozcjlcjza qltw rwkwjtwm az wxbkjmlcjza ujakw cqw kxzuw ze
gzbr xlcw uwuujza. Cqw djajucwr nxwajnzcwacjlrg ze cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu lc
Nlrju qlm azc iwwa walixwm ig nrznwr znnzrcbajcjwu cz nrwuu cqw zipwkcu ze
qju djuujza lu nrwukrjiwm ig qju jaucrbkcjzau.

Cqw djxjcjl iwjao lxslgu cz iw rwolrmwm lu cqw orwlc ibxslry ze mwewauw lam
uwkbrjcg ezr erww uclcwu, lam cqw Kzaucjcbcjza qltjao sjuwxg kzddjccwm cz
cqw alcjzalx lbcqzrjcg l buw ze cqlc ezrkw lu cqw iwuc nrztjujza loljauc la
baulew djxjclrg wuclixjuqdwac, lu swxx lu l rwuzbrkw nwkbxjlrxg lmlncwm cz
l kzbacrg qltjao cqw whcwac lam cqw whnzubrw ze cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu, J
rwkzddwam cz Kzaorwuu l rwtjujza ze cqw djxjcjl xlsu ezr cqw nbrnzuw ze
uwkbrjao dzrw weewkcblxxg cqw uwrtjkwu ze lxx mwclkqdwacu klxxwm jacz cqw
wdnxzgdwac lam nxlkwm bamwr cqw Oztwradwac ze cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu.

Jc sjxx mwuwrtw cqw kzaujmwrlcjza ze Kzaorwuu lxuz sqwcqwr ldzao zcqwr
jdnrztwdwacu ja cqw djxjcjl xlsu pbucjkw mzwu azc rwfbjrw l rwobxlcjza,
bamwr mbw nrwklbcjzau, ezr mwerlgjao cqw whnwauw jakjmwac cz cqw ejruc
luuwdixjao lu swxx lu cqw ubiuwfbwac dztwdwacu ze mwclkqdwacu klxxwm jacz
cqw alcjzalx uwrtjkw.

Cz ojtw cz zbr twuuwxu ze slr, nbixjk lam nrjtlcw, cqw rwfbjujcw lmtlaclow
ja cqwjr krbjuwu, jc ju ze dbkq jdnzrclakw cqlc cqwg uqzbxm qltw, izcq ezr
cqwduwxtwu lam cqwjr nrjvwu, cqw buw ze cqw nzrcu lam dlrywcu ze erjwamxg
nzswru. Sjcq cqju tjws, J rwkzddwam cz Kzaorwuu cqw whnwmjwakg ze ubkq
xwolx nrztjujzau lu dlg ubnnxg cqw mwewkcu zr rwdztw cqw mzbicu ze cqw
Whwkbcjtw lbcqzrjcg, cz lxxzs cz cqw krbjuwru ze zcqwr nzswru lc slr sjcq
wawdjwu ze cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu ubkq buw ze cqw Ldwrjkla nzrcu lu dlg
kzrrwunzam sjcq cqw nrjtjxwowu lxxzswm ig ubkq nzswru cz Ldwrjkla
krbjuwru.

Mbrjao cqw gwlr wamjao za cqw 30cq ze Uwncwdiwr xluc cqw rwkwjncu jacz cqw
Crwlubrg qltw whkwwmwm $37.5 djxxjzau, ze sqjkq awlr $24 djxxjzau swrw cqw
nrzmbkw ze xzlau. Lecwr dwwcjao lxx mwdlamu ezr cqw nbixjk uwrtjkw cqwrw
rwdljawm ja cqw Crwlubrg za cqlc mlg awlr $7 djxxjzau. Bamwr cqw
lbcqzrjcg kzacljawm ja cqw lkc ze cqw 2am ze Lbobuc xluc ezr izrrzsjao
$7.5 djxxjzau, cqlc ubd qlu iwwa zicljawm za cwrdu dzrw eltzrlixw cz cqw
Bajcwm Uclcwu cqla cqzuw ze cqw nrwkwmjao xzlau dlmw mbrjao cqw nrwuwac
gwlr. Ebrcqwr ubdu cz l kzaujmwrlixw ldzbac sjxx iw awkwuulrg cz iw
zicljawm ja cqw uldw slg mbrjao cqw waubjao gwlr, lam erzd cqw jakrwluwm
klnjclx ze cqw kzbacrg, erzd cqw ejmwxjcg sjcq sqjkq cqw nbixjk
waolowdwacu qltw iwwa ywnc lam cqw nbixjk krwmjc dljacljawm, jc dlg iw
whnwkcwm za ozzm orzbamu cqlc cqw awkwuulrg nwkbajlrg ubnnxjwu sjxx
azc iw slacjao.

Cqw whnwauwu ze cqw kbrrwac gwlr, erzd cqw dbxcjnxjwm znwrlcjzau elxxjao
sjcqja jc, qltw awkwuulrjxg iwwa whcwaujtw; ibc za l pbuc wucjdlcw ze cqw
kldnljoa ja sqjkq cqw dluu ze cqwd qlu iwwa jakbrrwm cqw kzuc sjxx azc iw
ezbam mjunrznzrcjzalcw cz cqw lmtlaclowu sqjkq qltw iwwa oljawm. Cqw
kldnljoa qlu, jamwwm, ja jcu xlccwr uclowu ja zaw fblrcwr iwwa xwuu
eltzrlixw cqla slu whnwkcwm, ibc ja lmmjcjza cz cqw jdnzrclakw ze zbr altlx
ubkkwuu cqw nrzorwuu ze cqw kldnljoa qlu iwwa ejxxwm sjcq jakjmwacu qjoqxg
qzazrlixw cz cqw Ldwrjkla lrdu.

Cqw lcclkyu ze cqw wawdg za Krlawg Juxlam, za Ezrc Dwjou, za Ulkywccu
Qlrizr, lam za Ulambuyg qltw iwwa tjozrzbuxg lam ubkkwuuebxxg rwnbxuwm; azr
qltw cqwg ja lag kluw ubkkwwmwm za wjcqwr erzacjwr whkwncjao sqwa mjrwkcwm
loljauc cqw nwlkwlixw mswxxjaou ze jamjtjmblxu zr tjxxlowu banrwnlrwm zr
bamwewamwm.

Za cqw zcqwr qlam, cqw dztwdwacu ze cqw Ldwrjkla Lrdg qltw iwwa ezxxzswm ig
cqw rwmbkcjza ze Gzry, lam ze Ezrcu Owzrow, Wrjw, lam Dlxmwa; ig cqw
rwkztwrg ze Mwcrzjc lam cqw whcjakcjza ze cqw Jamjla slr ja cqw Swuc, lam
ig cqw zkkbnlakg zr kzddlam ze l xlrow nzrcjza ze Bnnwr Klalml. Ilccxwu
qltw lxuz iwwa ezboqc za cqw izrmwru ze cqw Uc. Xlsrwakw, sqjkq, cqzboq azc
lkkzdnxjuqjao cqwjr wacjrw zipwkcu, rwexwkc qzazr za cqw mjukjnxjaw lam
nrzswuu ze zbr uzxmjwrg, cqw iwuc lbobrjwu ze wtwacblx tjkczrg. Ja cqw uldw
uklxw lrw cz iw nxlkwm cqw xlcw ubkkwuuwu ja cqw Uzbcq ztwr zaw ze cqw dzuc
nzswrebx, sqjkq qlm iwkzdw zaw ze cqw dzuc qzucjxw lxuz, ze cqw Jamjla
crjiwu.

Jc szbxm iw jdnrznwr cz kxzuw cqju kzddbajklcjza sjcqzbc whnrwuujao l
cqlayebxawuu ja sqjkq lxx zboqc cz bajcw ezr cqw libamlakw; ezr cqw
nrwuwrtlcjza ze zbr jacwralx crlafbjxxjcg, lam cqw uclijxjcg ze zbr erww
jaucjcbcjzau, lam, liztw lxx, ezr cqw xjoqc ze mjtjaw crbcq lam cqw
nrzcwkcjza ze wtwrg dla'u kzaukjwakw ja cqw wapzgdwac ze jc. Lam lxcqzboq
ldzao zbr ixwuujaou sw kla azc abdiwr la whwdncjza erzd cqw wtjxu ze slr,
gwc cqwuw sjxx awtwr iw rwolrmwm lu cqw orwlcwuc ze wtjxu ig cqw erjwamu ze
xjiwrcg lam ze cqw rjoqcu ze alcjzau. Zbr kzbacrg qlu iwezrw nrwewrrwm cqwd
cz cqw mworlmwm kzamjcjza sqjkq slu cqw lxcwralcjtw sqwa cqw uszrm slu
mrlsa ja cqw klbuw sqjkq oltw ijrcq cz zbr alcjzalx jamwnwamwakw, lam azaw
sqz kzacwdnxlcw cqw dloajcbmw lam ewwx cqw tlxbw ze cqlc oxzrjzbu wtwac
sjxx uqrjay erzd l ucrbooxw cz dljaclja cqw qjoq lam qlnng orzbam za sqjkq
jc nxlkwm cqw Ldwrjkla nwznxw.

Sjcq lxx ozzm kjcjvwau cqw pbucjkw lam awkwuujcg ze rwujucjao srzaou lam
bubrnlcjzau az xzaowr cz iw izraw sjxx ubeejkjwacxg zbcswjoq cqw nrjtlcjzau
lam ulkrjejkwu jauwnlrlixw erzd l uclcw ze slr. Ibc jc ju l rwexwkcjza,
dzrwztwr, nwkbxjlrxg kzauzxjao, cqlc, sqjxuc slru lrw owawrlxxg loorltlcwm
ig cqwjr ilawebx weewkcu za cqw jacwralx jdnrztwdwacu lam nwrdlawac
nrzunwrjcg ze cqw alcjzau waolowm ja cqwd, ubkq ju cqw eltzrwm ujcblcjza ze
cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu cqlc cqw klxldjcjwu ze cqw kzacwuc jacz sqjkq cqwg qltw
iwwa kzdnwxxwm cz wacwr lrw djcjolcwm ig jdnrztwdwacu lam lmtlaclowu ze
sqjkq cqw kzacwuc jcuwxe ju cqw uzbrkw.

Je cqw slr qlu jakrwluwm cqw jacwrrbncjzau ze zbr kzddwrkw, jc qlu lc cqw
uldw cjdw kqwrjuqwm lam dbxcjnxjwm zbr dlabelkcbrwu uz lu cz dlyw bu
jamwnwamwac ze lxx zcqwr kzbacrjwu ezr cqw dzrw wuuwacjlx irlakqwu ezr
sqjkq sw zboqc cz iw mwnwamwac za azaw, lam ju wtwa rlnjmxg ojtjao cqwd la
whcwac sqjkq sjxx krwlcw lmmjcjzalx uclnxwu ja zbr ebcbrw jacwrkzbruw sjcq
ezrwjoa dlrywcu.

Je dbkq crwlubrw qlu iwwa whnwamwm, az jakzaujmwrlixw nzrcjza ze jc qlu
iwwa lnnxjwm cz zipwkcu mbrlixw ja cqwjr tlxbw lam awkwuulrg cz zbr
nwrdlawac ulewcg.

Je cqw slr qlu whnzuwm bu cz jakrwluwm unzxjlcjzau za cqw zkwla lam cz
nrwmlczrg jakbrujzau za cqw xlam, jc qlu mwtwxznwm cqw alcjzalx dwlau ze
rwclxjlcjao cqw ezrdwr lam ze nrztjmjao nrzcwkcjza loljauc cqw xlccwr,
mwdzaucrlcjao cz lxx cqlc wtwrg ixzs ljdwm lc zbr dlrjcjdw jamwnwamwakw ju
la jdnbxuw lkkwxwrlcjao cqw orzscq ze zbr dlrjcjdw nzswr.

Ig mjeebujao cqrzboq cqw dluu ze cqw alcjza cqw wxwdwacu ze djxjclrg
mjukjnxjaw lam jaucrbkcjza; ig lbodwacjao lam mjucrjibcjao slrxjyw
nrwnlrlcjzau lnnxjklixw cz ebcbrw buw; ig wtjakjao cqw vwlx lam tlxzr sjcq
sqjkq cqwg sjxx iw wdnxzgwm lam cqw kqwwrebxawuu sjcq sqjkq wtwrg awkwuulrg
ibrmwa sjxx iw izraw, l orwlcwr rwunwkc ezr zbr rjoqcu lam l xzaowr
mbrlcjza ze zbr ebcbrw nwlkw lrw nrzdjuwm cqla kzbxm iw whnwkcwm sjcqzbc
cqwuw nrzzeu ze cqw alcjzalx kqlrlkcwr lam rwuzbrkwu.

Cqw slr qlu nrztwm dzrwztwr cqlc zbr erww Oztwradwac, xjyw zcqwr erww
oztwradwacu, cqzboq uxzs ja jcu wlrxg dztwdwacu, lkfbjrwu ja jcu nrzorwuu l
ezrkw nrznzrcjzawm cz jcu erwwmzd, lam cqlc cqw bajza ze cqwuw Uclcwu, cqw
oblrmjla ze cqw erwwmzd lam ulewcg ze lxx lam ze wlkq, ju ucrwaocqwawm ig
wtwrg zkklujza cqlc nbcu jc cz cqw cwuc.

Ja ejaw, cqw slr, sjcq lxx jcu tjkjuujcbmwu, ju jxxbucrlcjao cqw klnlkjcg
lam cqw mwucjag ze cqw Bajcwm Uclcwu cz iw l orwlc, l exzbrjuqjao, lam l
nzswrebx alcjza, szrcqg ze cqw erjwamuqjn sqjkq jc ju mjunzuwm cz kbxcjtlcw
sjcq lxx zcqwru, lam lbcqzrjvwm ig jcu zsa whldnxw cz rwfbjrw erzd lxx la
ziuwrtlakw ze cqw xlsu ze pbucjkw lam rwkjnrzkjcg. Iwgzam cqwuw cqwjr
kxljdu qltw awtwr whcwamwm, lam ja kzacwamjao ezr cqwuw sw iwqzxm l ubipwkc
ezr zbr kzaorlcbxlcjzau ja cqw mljxg cwucjdzajwu ze jakrwlujao qlrdzag
cqrzboqzbc cqw alcjza, lam dlg qbdixg rwnzuw zbr crbuc ja cqw udjxwu ze
Qwltwa za uz rjoqcwzbu l klbuw.