Svmmgj-Upipqvwc gs ixv Cvwhiv hwk Xgocv gs Yvnyvcvwihipzvc:

Wgijpixcihwkpwr ixv vhymb khb jxpux xhk lvvw spavk sgy bgoy cvccpgw gs ixv
nyvcvwi bvhy, P jhc pwkouvk ig uhmm bgo igrvixvy cipmm cggwvy, hc jvmm ixhi
hwb pwhkvtohub pw ixv vapcipwr nygzpcpgwc sgy ixv jhwic gs ixv Iyvhcoyb
dprxi lv connmpvk hc ixhi wg kvmhb dprxi xhnnvw pw nygzpkpwr sgy ixv yvcomi
gs ixv wvrgiphipgwc gw sggi jpix Ryvhi Lypihpw, jxvixvy pi cxgomk yvtopyv
hyyhwrvdvwic hkhnivk ig h yvioyw gs nvhuv gy soyixvy hwk dgyv vssvuipzv
nygzpcpgwc sgy nygcvuoipwr ixv jhy.

Ixhi yvcomi pc wgi bvi ewgjw. Ps, gw ixv gwv xhwk, ixv yvnvhm gs ixv gykvyc
pw ugowupm hwk ixv rvwvyhm nhupspuhipgw pw Voygnv, jxpux jpixkyvj ixv
guuhcpgw gw jxpux pdnyvccdvwic sygd Hdvypuhw zvccvmc jvyv nyhuipuvk,
corrvci vanvuihipgwc ixhi nvhuv hwk hdpib dhb lv yvvcihlmpcxvk, jv hyv
ugdnvmmvk, gw ixv gixvy xhwk, lb ixv yvsochm gs ixv Lypipcx Rgzvywdvwi ig
huuvni ixv gssvyvk dvkphipgw gs ixv Vdnvygy gs Yoccph, lb ixv kvmhbc pw
rpzpwr vssvui ig pic gjw nygngchm gs h kpyvui wvrgiphipgw, hwk, hlgzv hmm,
lb ixv nypwupnmvc hwk dhwwvy pw jxpux ixv jhy pc wgj hzgjvkmb uhyypvk gw ig
pwsvy ixhi h cnpypi gs xgcipmpib pc pwkomrvk dgyv zpgmvwi ixhw vzvy hrhpwci
ixv yprxic hwk nygcnvypib gs ixpc ugowiyb.

Ixpc pwuyvhcvk zpgmvwuv pc lvci vanmhpwvk lb ixv ijg pdngyihwi
upyuodcihwuvc ixhi ixv ryvhi ugwivci pw Voygnv sgy hw vtopmplypod
rohyhwivvpwr hmm pic Cihivc hrhpwci ixv hdlpipgw gs hwb xhc lvvw umgcvk
jpixgoi hwb uxvue gw ixv gzvy-lvhypwr ngjvy gs Ryvhi Lypihpw gw ixv guvhw,
hwk pi xhc mvsi pw xvy xhwkc kpcngchlmv hydhdvwic, jpix jxpux, sgyrviipwr
ixv kpsspuomipvc gs h yvdgiv jhy jpix h syvv nvgnmv, hwk bpvmkpwr ig ixv
pwigapuhipgw gs couuvcc, jpix ixv vahdnmv gs h ryvhi zpuipd ig pi lvsgyv
xvy vbvc, cxv uxvypcxvc xgnvc gs cipmm soyixvy hrryhwkpqpwr h ngjvy hmyvhkb
sgydpkhlmv pw pic hlocvc ig ixv iyhwtopmmpib gs ixv upzpmpqvk hwk
ugddvyuphm jgymk.

Loi jxhivzvy dhb xhzv pwcnpyvk ixv vwvdb jpix ixvcv dgyv zpgmvwi noyngcvc,
ixv nolmpu ugowupmc gs h whipgw dgyv hlmv ig dhpwihpw ixhw pi jhc ig
yvtopyv pic pwkvnvwkvwuv, hwk jpix h kvzgipgw ig pi yvwkvyvk dgyv hykvwimb
lb ixv vanvypvwuv gs pic lmvccpwrc, uhw wvzvy kvmplvyhiv loi gw ixv dvhwc
dgci vssvuiohm sgy kvsvhipwr ixv vaiyhzhrhwi zpvjc gy owjhyyhwihlmv
nhccpgwc jpix jxpux hmgwv ixv jhy uhw wgj lv noycovk hrhpwci oc.

Pw ixv vzvwic gs ixv nyvcvwi uhdnhprw ixv vwvdb, jpix hmm xpc hordvwivk
dvhwc hwk jhwigw ocv gs ixvd, xhc mpiimv rygowk sgy vaomihipgw, owmvcc xv
uhw svvm pi pw ixv couuvcc gs xpc yvuvwi vwivynypcvc hrhpwci ixpc
dviygngmpc hwk ixv wvprxlgypwr igjw gs Hmvahwkyph, sygd lgix gs jxpux xpc
yviyvhic jvyv hc nyvupnpihiv hc xpc hiivdnic jvyv lgmk hwk sgyiowhiv. Pw
xpc gixvy pwuoycpgwc gw goy Himhwipu sygwipvy xpc nygryvcc, gsivw uxvuevk
hwk uxhcipcvk lb ixv dhyiphm cnpypi gs ixv wvprxlgypwr upipqvwc, xhc xhk
dgyv vssvui pw kpciyvccpwr pwkpzpkohmc hwk pw kpcxgwgypwr xpc hydc ixhw pw
nygdgipwr hwb glfvui gs mvrpipdhiv jhyshyv; hwk pw ixv ijg pwcihwuvc
dvwipgwvk, xgjvzvy kvvnmb ig lv yvryviivk gw goy nhyi, xv jpmm spwk pw xpc
iyhwcpvwi couuvcc, jxpux pwivyyonivk sgy h dgdvwi gwmb ixv gykpwhyb
locpwvcc hi ixv cvhi gs Rgzvywdvwi, wg ugdnvwchipgw sgy ixv mgcc gs
uxhyhuivy jpix ixv jgymk lb xpc zpgmhipgwc gs nypzhiv nygnvyib hwk lb xpc
kvciyouipgw gs nolmpu vkpspuvc nygivuivk hc dgwodvwic gs ixv hyic lb ixv
mhjc gs upzpmpqvk jhyshyv.

Gw goy cpkv jv uhw hnnvhm ig h cvypvc gs huxpvzvdvwic jxpux xhzv rpzvw wvj
mocivy ig ixv Hdvypuhw hydc. Lvcpkvc ixv lypmmphwi pwupkvwic pw ixv dpwgy
gnvyhipgwc gs ixv uhdnhprw, ixv cnmvwkpk zpuigypvc rhpwvk gw ixv Uhwhkphw
cpkv gs ixv Wphrhyh lb ixv Hdvypuhw sgyuvc owkvy Dhfgy-Rvwvyhm Lygjw hwk
Lyprhkpvyc Cugii hwk Rhpwvc xhzv rhpwvk sgy ixvcv xvygvc hwk ixvpy
vdomhipwr ugdnhwpgwc ixv dgci owshkpwr mhoyvmc, hwk, xhzpwr iypodnxhwimb
ivcivk ixv nygryvccpzv kpcupnmpwv gs ixv Hdvypuhw cgmkpvyb, xhzv ihorxi ixv
vwvdb ixhi ixv mgwrvy xv nygiyhuic xpc xgcipmv vssgyic ixv dgyv uvyihpw hwk
kvupcpzv jpmm lv xpc spwhm kpcugdspioyv.

Gw goy cgoixvyw lgykvy zpuigyb xhc ugwipwovk hmcg ig sgmmgj ixv Hdvypuhw
cihwkhyk. Ixv lgmk hwk cepmmsom gnvyhipgwc gs Dhfgy-Rvwvyhm Fhuecgw,
ugwkouipwr iyggnc kyhjw sygd ixv dpmpiph gs ixv Cihivc mvhci kpcihwi,
nhyipuomhymb Ivwwvccvv, xhzv colkovk ixv nypwupnhm iyplvc gs xgcipmv
chzhrvc, hwk, lb vcihlmpcxpwr h nvhuv jpix ixvd, nyvuvkvk lb yvuvwi hwk
vavdnmhyb uxhcipcvdvwi, xhc lvci rohykvk hrhpwci ixv dpcuxpvs gs ixvpy
uggnvyhipgwc jpix ixv Lypipcx vwivynypcvc jxpux dhb lv nmhwwvk hrhpwci ixhi
tohyivy gs goy ugowiyb. Pdngyihwi iyplvc gs Pwkphwc gw goy wgyixjvcivyw
sygwipvy xhzv hmcg huuvkvk ig cipnomhipgwc jxpux lpwk ixvd ig ixv pwivyvcic
gs ixv Owpivk Cihivc hwk ig ugwcpkvy goy vwvdb hc ixvpyc hmcg.

Pw ixv yvuvwi hiivdni gs ixv vwvdb gw ixv upib gs Lhmipdgyv, kvsvwkvk lb
dpmpiph hwk zgmowivvyc, hpkvk lb h cdhmm lgkb gs yvromhyc hwk cvh dvw, xv
jhc yvuvpzvk jpix h cnpypi jxpux nygkouvk h yhnpk yviyvhi ig xpc cxpnc,
jxpmci ugwuoyyvwi hiihue lb h mhyrv smvvi jhc couuvccsommb yvcpcivk lb ixv
civhkb hwk jvmm-kpyvuivk spyv gs ixv sgyi hwk lhiivypvc gnngcvk ig pi.

Pw hwgixvy yvuvwi hiihue lb h ngjvysom sgyuv gw goy iyggnc hi Nmhiicloyr,
gs jxpux yvromhyc dhkv h nhyi gwmb, ixv vwvdb, hsivy h nvycvzvyhwuv sgy
dhwb xgoyc, jhc spwhmmb ugdnvmmvk ig cvve chsvib pw h xhcib yviyvhi, jpix
goy rhmmhwi lhwkc nyvccpwr ongw ixvd.

Gw ixv Mhevc, cg doux ugwivcivk ixygorxgoi ixv jhy, ixv ryvhi vavyipgwc sgy
ixv ugddhwk dhkv gw goy nhyi xhzv lvvw jvmm yvnhpk. Gw Mhev Gwihypg goy
ctohkygw pc wgj hwk xhc lvvw sgy cgdv ipdv pw h ugwkpipgw ig ugwspwv ixhi
gs ixv vwvdb ig xpc gjw ngyi, hwk ig shzgy ixv gnvyhipgwc gs goy mhwk
sgyuvc gw ixhi sygwipvy.

H nhyi gs ixv ctohkygw gw Mhev Vypv xhc lvvw vaivwkvk pwig Mhev Xoygw, hwk
xhc nygkouvk ixv hkzhwihrv gs kpcnmhbpwr goy ugddhwk gw ixhi mhev hmcg. Gwv
glfvui gs ixv vanvkpipgw jhc ixv yvkouipgw gs Dhuepwhj, jxpux sgmmgjvk jpix
ixv mgcc gs h svj lyhzv dvw, hdgwr jxgd jhc hw gsspuvy focimb kpcipwropcxvk
sgy xpc rhmmhwi vanmgpic. Ixv vanvkpipgw, hlmb ugwkouivk lb lgix ixv mhwk
hwk ixv whzhm ugddhwkvyc, jhc gixvyjpcv xprxmb zhmohlmv pw pic vssvuic.

Gw Mhev Uxhdnmhpw, jxvyv goy convypgypib xhk sgy cgdv ipdv lvvw owkpcnoivk,
ixv Lypipcx ctohkygw mhivmb uhdv pwig huipgw jpix ixv Hdvypuhw, ugddhwkvk
lb Uhnihpw Dhukgwgorx. Pi pccovk pw ixv uhnioyv gs ixv jxgmv gs ixv vwvdb'c
cxpnc. Ixv lvci nyhpcv sgy ixpc gsspuvy hwk xpc pwiyvnpk ugdyhkvc pc pw ixv
mpevwvcc gs xpc iypodnx ig ixv pmmociypgoc zpuigyb jxpux pddgyihmpqvk
hwgixvy gsspuvy hwk vcihlmpcxvk hi h uypipuhm dgdvwi goy ugddhwk gs hwgixvy
mhev.

Gw ixv guvhw ixv nypkv gs goy whzhm hydc xhk lvvw hdnmb conngyivk. H cvugwk
syprhiv xhc pwkvvk shmmvw pwig ixv xhwkc gs ixv vwvdb, loi ixv mgcc pc
xpkkvw pw ixv lmhqv gs xvygpcd jpix jxpux cxv jhc kvsvwkvk. Uhnihpw Ngyivy,
jxg ugddhwkvk xvy, hwk jxgcv nyvzpgoc uhyvvy xhk lvvw kpcipwropcxvk lb
khypwr vwivynypcv hwk lb svyipmpib gs rvwpoc, dhpwihpwvk h chwropwhyb
ugwivci hrhpwci ijg cxpnc, gwv gs ixvd convypgy ig xpc gjw, hwk owkvy gixvy
cvzvyv kpchkzhwihrvc, 'ipm xodhwpib igyv kgjw ixv ugmgyc jxpux zhmgy xhk
whpmvk ig ixv dhci. Ixpc gsspuvy hwk xpc lyhzv ugdyhkvc xhzv hkkvk doux ig
ixv ypcpwr rmgyb gs ixv Hdvypuhw smhr, hwk xhzv dvypivk hmm ixv vssocpgwc
gs ryhipiokv jxpux ixvpy ugowiyb pc vzvy yvhkb ig lvcigj gw ixv uxhdnpgwc
gs pic yprxic hwk gs pic chsvib.

Ijg cdhmmvy zvccvmc gs jhy xhzv hmcg lvugdv nypqvc ig ixv vwvdb, loi lb h
convypgypib gs sgyuv jxpux cosspupvwimb zpwkpuhivc ixv yvnoihipgw gs ixvpy
ugddhwkvyc, jxpmci ijg gixvyc, gwv ugddhwkvk lb Uhnihpw Jhyypwrigw, ixv
gixvy lb Uhnihpw Lmhevmb, xhzv uhnioyvk Lypipcx cxpnc gs ixv chdv umhcc
jpix h rhmmhwiyb hwk rggk ugwkoui jxpux vwipimv ixvd hwk ixvpy ugdnhwpgwc
ig h foci cxhyv pw ixv nyhpcv gs ixvpy ugowiyb.

Pw cnpiv gs ixv whzhm sgyuv gs ixv vwvdb huuodomhivk gw goy ughcic, goy
nypzhiv uyopcvyc hmcg xhzv wgi uvhcvk ig hwwgb xpc ugddvyuv hwk ig lypwr
ixvpy ypux nypqvc pwig goy ngyic, ugwiyploipwr ixoc, jpix gixvy nyggsc, ig
kvdgwciyhiv ixv pwugdnvivwub hwk pmmvrhmpib gs h lmguehkv ixv nygumhdhipgw
gs jxpux pc dhkv ixv nyvivai sgy zvapwr hwk kpcugoyhrpwr ixv ugddvyuv gs
wvoiyhm ngjvyc jpix ixv Owpivk Cihivc.

Ig dvvi ixv vaivwkvk hwk kpzvycpspvk jhyshyv hkgnivk lb ixv vwvdb, ryvhi
lgkpvc gs dpmpiph xhzv lvvw ihevw pwig cvyzpuv sgy ixv nolmpu kvsvwcv, hwk
ryvhi vanvwcvc pwuoyyvk. Ixhi ixv kvsvwcv vzvybjxvyv dhb lv lgix dgyv
ugwzvwpvwi hwk dgyv vugwgdpuhm, Ugwryvcc jpmm cvv ixv wvuvccpib gs
pddvkphiv dvhcoyvc sgy spmmpwr ixv yhwec gs ixv Yvromhy Hydb hwk gs
vwmhyrpwr ixv nygzpcpgw sgy cnvuphm ugync, dgowivk hwk owdgowivk, ig lv
vwrhrvk sgy mgwrvy nvypgkc gs cvyzpuv ixhw hyv kov sygd ixv dpmpiph. P
vhywvcimb yvwvj, hi ixv chdv ipdv, h yvugddvwkhipgw gs coux uxhwrvc pw ixv
cbcivd gs ixv dpmpiph hc, lb umhccpwr hwk kpcupnmpwpwr sgy ixv dgci nygdni
hwk huipzv cvyzpuv ixv ngyipgwc dgci uhnhlmv gs pi, jpmm rpzv ig ixhi ryvhi
yvcgoyuv sgy ixv nolmpu chsvib hmm ixv yvtopcpiv vwvyrb hwk vsspupvwub.

Ixv dgwvbc yvuvpzvk pwig ixv Iyvhcoyb koypwr ixv wpwv dgwixc vwkpwr gw ixv
30ix khb gs Fowv mhci hdgowivk ig $32 dpmmpgwc, gs jxpux wvhy $11 dpmmpgwc
jvyv ixv nyguvvkc gs ixv nolmpu yvzvwov hwk ixv yvdhpwkvy kvypzvk sygd
mghwc. Ixv kpcloycvdvwic sgy nolmpu vanvwkpioyvc koypwr ixv chdv nvypgk
vauvvkvk $34 dpmmpgwc, hwk mvsi pw ixv Iyvhcoyb gw ixv spyci khb gs Fomb
wvhy $5 dpmmpgwc. Ixv kvdhwkc koypwr ixv yvdhpwkvy gs ixv nyvcvwi bvhy
hmyvhkb hoixgypqvk lb Ugwryvcc hwk ixv vanvwcvc pwupkvwi ig hw vaivwcpgw
gs ixv gnvyhipgwc gs ixv jhy jpmm yvwkvy pi wvuvcchyb ixhi mhyrv codc
cxgomk lv nygzpkvk ig dvvi ixvd.

Sygd ixpc zpvj gs ixv whipgwhm hsshpyc Ugwryvcc jpmm lv oyrvk ig ihev on
jpixgoi kvmhb hc jvmm ixv colfvui gs nvuowphyb connmpvc hc ixhi gs dpmpihyb
sgyuv, hwk gw h cuhmv ugddvwcoyhiv jpix ixv vaivwi hwk ixv uxhyhuivy jxpux
ixv jhy xhc hccodvk. Pi pc wgi ig lv kpcropcvk ixhi ixv cpiohipgw gs goy
ugowiyb uhmmc sgy pic ryvhivci vssgyic.

Goy vwvdb pc ngjvysom pw dvw hwk pw dgwvb, gw ixv mhwk hwk gw ixv jhivy.
Hzhpmpwr xpdcvms gs sgyiopigoc hkzhwihrvc, xv pc hpdpwr jpix xpc owkpzpkvk
sgyuv h kvhkmb lmgj hi goy rygjpwr nygcnvypib, nvyxhnc hi goy whipgwhm
vapcivwuv. Xv xhc hzgjvk xpc noyngcv gs iyhdnmpwr gw ixv ochrvc gs
upzpmpqvk jhyshyv, hwk rpzvw vhywvcic gs pi pw ixv nmowkvy hwk jhwigw
kvciyouipgw gs nypzhiv nygnvyib. Pw xpc nypkv gs dhypipdv kgdpwpgw hwk pw
xpc ixpyci gs ugddvyuphm dgwgngmb xv ciypevc jpix nvuomphy hwpdgcpib hi ixv
nygryvcc gs goy whzprhipgw hwk gs goy dhwoshuioyvc. Xpc lhylhygoc ngmpub
xhc wgi vzvw cnhyvk ixgcv dgwodvwic gs ixv hyic hwk dgkvmc gs ihciv jpix
jxpux goy ugowiyb xhk vwypuxvk hwk vdlvmmpcxvk pic pwshwi dviygngmpc. Sygd
coux hw hkzvychyb xgcipmpib pw pic ryvhivci sgyuv hwk pw pic jgyci sgydc
dhb lv mggevk sgy.

Ixv Hdvypuhw nvgnmv jpmm shuv pi jpix ixv owkhowivk cnpypi jxpux pw ixvpy
yvzgmoipgwhyb ciyorrmv kvsvhivk xpc owyprxivgoc nygfvuic. Xpc ixyvhic hwk
xpc lhylhypipvc, pwcivhk gs kpcdhb, jpmm epwkmv pw vzvyb lgcgd hw
pwkprwhipgw wgi ig lv vaipwropcxvk loi pw ixv kpchcivy hwk vanomcpgw gs
coux uyovm pwzhkvyc.

Pw nygzpkpwr ixv dvhwc wvuvcchyb ixv Whipgwhm Mvrpcmhioyv jpmm wgi kpciyoci
ixv xvygpu hwk vwmprxivwvk nhiypgipcd gs pic ugwcipiovwic. Ixvb jpmm
uxvvysommb hwk nygokmb lvhy vzvyb loykvw gs vzvyb epwk jxpux ixv chsvib hwk
xgwgy gs ixv whipgw kvdhwk. Jv xhzv cvvw ixvd vzvybjxvyv nhbpwr ixvpy
ihavc, kpyvui hwk pwkpyvui, jpix ixv ryvhivci nygdniwvcc hwk hmhuypib. Jv
cvv ixvd yocxpwr jpix vwixocphcd ig ixv cuvwvc jxvyv khwrvy hwk koib uhmm.
Pw gssvypwr ixvpy lmggk ixvb rpzv ixv coyvci nmvkrv ixhi wg gixvy iyploiv
jpmm lv jpixxvmk.

Xhzpwr sgylgywv ig kvumhyv jhy owipm ig gixvy hrryvccpgwc xhk lvvw hkkvk
ixv uhnioyv gs wvhy gwv ixgochwk Hdvypuhw zvccvmc hwk ixv pdnyvccdvwi gs
ixgochwkc gs Hdvypuhw cvh shypwr upipqvwc, hwk owipm h spwhm kvumhyhipgw
xhk lvvw dhkv lb ixv Rgzvywdvwi gs Ryvhi Lypihpw ixhi xvy xgcipmv gykvyc
hrhpwci goy ugddvyuv jgomk wgi lv yvzgevk loi gw ugwkpipgwc hc pdngccplmv
hc owfoci, jxpmci pi jhc ewgjw ixhi ixvcv gykvyc jgomk wgi gixvyjpcv
uvhcv loi jpix h jhy jxpux xhk mhcivk wvhymb ijvwib bvhyc, hwk jxpux,
huugykpwr ig hnnvhyhwuvc hi ixhi ipdv, dprxi mhci hc dhwb dgyv; xhzpwr
dhwpsvcivk gw vzvyb guuhcpgw hwk pw vzvyb nygnvy dgkv h cpwuvyv kvcpyv ig
hyyvci ixv vssocpgw gs lmggk hwk dvvi goy vwvdb gw ixv rygowk gs focipuv
hwk yvugwupmphipgw, goy lvmgzvk ugowiyb, pw cipmm gnngcpwr ig xpc
nvycvzvypwr xgcipmpib hmm pic vwvyrpvc, jpix hw owkpdpwpcxvk kpcngcpipgw
igjhyk nvhuv hwk sypvwkcxpn gw xgwgyhlmv ivydc, doci uhyyb jpix pi ixv
rggk jpcxvc gs ixv pdnhyiphm jgymk hwk ixv lvci xgnvc gs conngyi sygd hw
gdwpngivwi hwk epwk Nygzpkvwuv.