Iquuks-Fxhxgqbr ki hcq Rqbnhq nbj Ckwrq ki Yqvyqrqbhnhxlqr:

X cnlq hcq rnhxrinfhxkb kb kwy vyqrqbh mqqhxbd ki eqxbd neuq hk fkmmwbxfnhq
hcq rwffqrriwu hqymxbnhxkb ki hcq sny scxfc cnj eqqb fkmmqbfqj ndnxbrh hcq
Wbxhqj Rhnhqr ez hcq Yqdqbfz ki Nudxqyr. Hcq rawnjykb xb njlnbfq kb hcnh
rqylxfq, wbjqy Fkmmkjkyq Jqfnhwy, ukrh bkh n mkmqbh nihqy xhr nyyxlnu xb
hcq Mqjxhqyynbqnb xb rqqtxbd hcq bnlnu ikyfq ki hcq qbqmz hcqb fywxrxbd xb
hcnh rqn, nbj rwffqqjqj xb fnvhwyxbd hsk ki cxr rcxvr, kbq ki hcqm hcq
vyxbfxvnu rcxv, fkmmnbjqj ez hcq Nudqyxbq njmxynu. Hcq cxdc fcnynfhqy ki
hcq Nmqyxfnb fkmmnbjqy snr eyxuuxnbhuz rwrhnxbqj kb hcq kffnrxkb scxfc
eykwdch cxr ksb rcxv xbhk fukrq nfhxkb sxhc hcnh ki cxr njlqyrnyz, nr snr
hcq nffwrhkmqj dnuunbhyz ki nuu hcq kiixfqyr nbj mqb nfhwnuuz qbdndqj.
Cnlxbd vyqvnyqj hcq snz ez hcxr jqmkbrhynhxkb ki Nmqyxfnb rtxuu nbj
vyksqrr, cq cnrhqbqj hk hcq vkyh ki Nudxqyr, scqyq vqnfq snr vykmvhuz
zxqujqj hk cxr lxfhkyxkwr ikyfq.

Xb hcq hqymr rhxvwunhqj hcq yxdchr nbj ckbky ki hcq Wbxhqj Rhnhqr sqyq
vnyhxfwunyuz fkbrwuhqj ez n vqyvqhwnu yquxbawxrcmqbh kb hcq vnyh ki hcq Jqz
ki nuu vyqhqbrxkbr hk hyxewhq iykm hcqm. Hcq xmvyqrrxkbr scxfc cnlq hcwr
eqqb mnjq, rhyqbdhcqbqj nr hcqz sxuu cnlq eqqb ez rwerqawqbh hynbrnfhxkbr
sxhc hcq Yqdqbfxqr ki Hwbxr nbj ki Hyxvkux ez hcq nvvqnynbfq ki hcq unydqy
ikyfq scxfc ikuuksqj wbjqy Fkmmkjkyq Enxbeyxjdq, hcq fcxqi xb fkmmnbj ki
hcq qovqjxhxkb, nbj ez hcq pwjxfxkwr vyqfnwhxkbnyz nyynbdqmqbhr uqih ez cxm
xb hcnh awnyhqy, niikyj n yqnrkbneuq vykrvqfh ki iwhwyq rqfwyxhz iky hcq
lnuwneuq vkyhxkb ki kwy fkmmqyfq scxfc vnrrqr sxhcxb yqnfc ki hcq Enyenyz
fywxrqyr.

Xh xr nbkhcqy rkwyfq ki rnhxrinfhxkb hcnh hcq hyqnhz ki vqnfq sxhc Dyqnh
Eyxhnxb cnr eqqb rwffqqjqj ez n fkblqbhxkb kb hcq rwepqfh ki fkmmqyfq
fkbfuwjqj ez hcq vuqbxvkhqbhxnyxqr ki hcq hsk fkwbhyxqr. Xb hcxr yqrwuh n
jxrvkrxhxkb xr mnbxiqrhqj kb hcq vnyh ki hcnh bnhxkb fkyyqrvkbjxbd sxhc hcq
jxrvkrxhxkb ki hcq Wbxhqj Rhnhqr, scxfc xh mnz eq ckvqj sxuu eq xmvyklqj
xbhk uxeqynu nyynbdqmqbhr kb khcqy rwepqfhr kb scxfc hcq vnyhxqr cnlq
mwhwnu xbhqyqrhr, ky scxfc mxdch qbjnbdqy hcqxy iwhwyq cnymkbz. Fkbdyqrr
sxuu jqfxjq kb hcq qovqjxqbfz ki vykmkhxbd rwfc n rqawqu ez dxlxbd qiiqfh
hk hcq mqnrwyq ki fkbixbxbd hcq Nmqyxfnb bnlxdnhxkb hk Nmqyxfnb rqn mqb--n
mqnrwyq scxfc, nh hcq rnmq hxmq hcnh xh mxdch cnlq hcnh fkbfxuxnhkyz
hqbjqbfz, skwuj cnlq hcq iwyhcqy njlnbhndq ki xbfyqnrxbd hcq xbjqvqbjqbfq
ki kwy bnlxdnhxkb nbj hcq yqrkwyfqr iky kwy mnyxhxmq jqiqbrq.

Xb fkbikymxhz sxhc hcq nyhxfuqr xb hcq hyqnhz ki Dcqbh yqunhxbd hk hcq
Xbjxnbr, nr squu nr sxhc n lxqs hk hcq hynbawxuuxhz ki kwy sqrhqyb nbj
bkyhcsqrhqyb iykbhxqyr, mqnrwyqr sqyq hntqb hk qrhneuxrc nb xmmqjxnhq vqnfq
sxhc hcq rqlqynu hyxeqr sck cnj eqqb qbdndqj xb ckrhxuxhxqr ndnxbrh hcq
Wbxhqj Rhnhqr. Rwfc ki hcqm nr sqyq xblxhqj hk Jqhykxh nffqjqj yqnjxuz hk n
yqbqsnu ki hcq ikymqy hyqnhxqr ki iyxqbjrcxv. Ki hcq khcqy hyxeqr sck sqyq
xblxhqj hk n rhnhxkb kb hcq Mxrrxrrxvvx hcq dyqnhqy bwmeqy cnlq nurk
nffqvhqj hcq vqnfq kiiqyqj hk hcqm. Hcq yqrxjwq, fkbrxrhxbd ki hcq mkyq
jxrhnbh hyxeqr ky vnyhr ki hyxeqr, yqmnxb hk eq eykwdch klqy ez iwyhcqy
qovunbnhxkbr, ky ez rwfc khcqy mqnbr nr mnz eq njnvhqj hk hcq jxrvkrxhxkbr
hcqz mnz ixbnuuz jxrfukrq.

Hcq Xbjxnb hyxeqr sxhcxb nbj ekyjqyxbd kb hcq rkwhcqyb iykbhxqy, sckm n
fywqu sny kb hcqxy vnyh cnj fkmvquuqj wr hk fcnrhxrq xbhk vqnfq, cnlq
unhhqyuz rcksb n yqrhuqrrbqrr scxfc cnr fnuuqj iky vyqvnynhkyz mqnrwyqr iky
yqvyqrrxbd xh, nbj iky vykhqfhxbd hcq fkmmxrrxkbqyr qbdndqj xb fnyyzxbd hcq
hqymr ki hcq vqnfq xbhk qoqfwhxkb.

Hcq qoqfwhxkb ki hcq nfh iky ixoxbd hcq mxuxhnyz vqnfq qrhneuxrcmqbh cnr
eqqb nhhqbjqj sxhc jxiixfwuhxqr scxfc qlqb bks fnb kbuz eq klqyfkmq ez
uqdxrunhxlq nxj. Hcq rquqfhxkb ki kiixfqyr, hcq vnzmqbh nbj jxrfcnydq ki
hcq hykkvr qbuxrhqj iky hcq sny, hcq vnzmqbh ki hcq yqhnxbqj hykkvr nbj
hcqxy yqwbxkb iykm jqhnfcqj nbj jxrhnbh rhnhxkbr, hcq fkuuqfhxkb nbj
rqfwyxhz ki hcq vweuxf vykvqyhz xb hcq Awnyhqymnrhqy, Fkmmxrrnyz, nbj
Kyjbnbfq jqvnyhmqbhr, nbj hcq fkbrhnbh mqjxfnu nrrxrhnbfq yqawxyqj xb
ckrvxhnur nbj dnyyxrkbr yqbjqyqj n fkmvuqhq qoqfwhxkb ki hcq nfh
xmvynfhxfneuq kb hcq 1rh ki Mnz, hcq vqyxkj mkyq xmmqjxnhquz fkbhqmvunhqj.
Nr rkkb, cksqlqy, nr fxyfwmrhnbfqr skwuj vqymxh, nbj nr iny nr xh cnr eqqb
vynfhxfneuq fkbrxrhqbhuz sxhc hcq vweuxf xbhqyqrhr, hcq yqjwfhxkb ki hcq
Nymz cnr eqqb nffkmvuxrcqj; ewh hcq nvvykvyxnhxkbr iky xhr vnz nbj iky
khcqy eynbfcqr ki hcq mxuxhnyz rqylxfq cnlxbd vyklqj xbnjqawnhq, hcq
qnyuxqrh nhhqbhxkb hk hcnh rwepqfh sxuu eq bqfqrrnyz; nbj hcq qovqjxqbfz ki
fkbhxbwxbd wvkb hcq vqnfq qrhneuxrcmqbh hcq rhnii kiixfqyr sck cnlq
cxhcqyhk eqqb vyklxrxkbnuuz yqhnxbqj xr nurk yqfkmmqbjqj hk hcq
fkbrxjqynhxkb ki Fkbdyqrr.

Xb hcq vqyikymnbfq ki hcq Qoqfwhxlq jwhz wvkb hcxr kffnrxkb hcqyq cnr bkh
eqqb snbhxbd n pwrh rqbrxexuxhz hk hcq mqyxhr ki hcq Nmqyxfnb Nymz jwyxbd
hcq unhq sny; ewh hcq kelxkwr vkuxfz nbj jqrxdb xb ixoxbd nb qiixfxqbh
mxuxhnyz vqnfq qrhneuxrcmqbh jxj bkh niikyj nb kvvkyhwbxhz hk jxrhxbdwxrc
hcq ndqj nbj xbixym kb nffkwbh ki hcqxy vnrh rqylxfqr bky hcq skwbjqj nbj
jxrneuqj kb nffkwbh ki hcqxy vyqrqbh rwiiqyxbdr.

Hcq qohqbh ki hcq yqjwfhxkb, xbjqqj, wbnlkxjneuz xblkulqj hcq qofuwrxkb ki
mnbz mqyxhkyxkwr kiixfqyr ki qlqyz ynbt iykm hcq rqylxfq ki hcqxy fkwbhyz;
nbj rk qawnu nr squu nr rk bwmqykwr sqyq hcq funxmr hk nhhqbhxkb hcnh n
jqfxrxkb ez hcq rhnbjnyj ki fkmvnynhxlq mqyxh fkwuj rqujkm eq nhhnxbqj.
Pwjdqj, cksqlqy, xb fnbjky ez n dqbqynu rhnbjnyj ki vkrxhxlq mqyxh, hcq
Nymz Yqdxrhqy sxuu, xh xr equxqlqj, jk ckbky hk hcq qrhneuxrcmqbh, scxuq
hcq fnrq ki hckrq kiixfqyr sckrq bnmqr nyq bkh xbfuwjqj xb xh jqlkulqr sxhc
hcq rhykbdqrh xbhqyqrh wvkb hcq uqdxrunhxlq nwhckyxhz iky rwfc vyklxrxkbr
nr rcnuu eq jqqmqj hcq eqrh fnufwunhqj hk dxlq rwvvkyh nbj rkunfq hk hcq
lqhqynb nbj hcq xblnuxj, hk jxrvunz hcq eqbqixfqbfq nr squu nr hcq pwrhxfq
ki hcq Dklqybmqbh, nbj hk xbrvxyq n mnyhxnu gqnu iky hcq vweuxf rqylxfq
wvkb qlqyz iwhwyq qmqydqbfz.

Nuhckwdc hcq qmenyynrrmqbhr nyxrxbd iykm hcq snbh ki nb wbxikym bnhxkbnu
fwyyqbfz cnlq bkh eqqb jxmxbxrcqj rxbfq hcq njpkwybmqbh ki Fkbdyqrr, dyqnh
rnhxrinfhxkb cnr eqqb jqyxlqj xb fkbhqmvunhxbd hcq yqlxlnu ki hcq vweuxf
fyqjxh nbj hcq qiixfxqbfz ki hcq vweuxf yqrkwyfqr. Hcq yqfqxvhr xbhk hcq
Hyqnrwyz iykm hcq lnyxkwr eynbfcqr ki yqlqbwq jwyxbd hcq bxbq mkbhcr qbjxbd
kb hcq 30hc ki Rqvhqmeqy unrh cnlq eqqb qrhxmnhqj nh $12.5 mxuuxkbr; hcq
xrrwqr ki Hyqnrwyz bkhqr ki qlqyz jqbkmxbnhxkb jwyxbd hcq rnmq vqyxkj
nmkwbhqj hk hcq rwm ki $14 mxuuxkbr, nbj hcqyq snr nurk kehnxbqj wvkb uknb
jwyxbd hcq rnmq vqyxkj n rwm ki $9 mxuuxkbr, ki scxfc hcq rwm ki $6
mxuuxkbr snr rwerfyxeqj xb fnrc nbj hcq rwm ki $3 mxuuxkbr xb Hyqnrwyz
bkhqr.

Sxhc hcqrq mqnbr, njjqj hk hcq rwm ki $1.5 mxuuxkbr, eqxbd hcq enunbfq ki
mkbqz xb hcq Hyqnrwyz kb hcq 1rh jnz ki Pnbwnyz, hcqyq cnr eqqb vnxj
eqhsqqb hcq 1rh ki Pnbwnyz nbj hcq 1rh ki Kfhkeqy kb nffkwbh ki hcq
nvvykvyxnhxkbr ki hcq vyqfqjxbd nbj ki hcq vyqrqbh zqny (qofuwrxlquz ki
hcq nmkwbh ki hcq Hyqnrwyz bkhqr rwerfyxeqj hk hcq uknb nbj ki hcq nmkwbh
yqjqqmqj xb hcq vnzmqbh ki jwhxqr nbj hnoqr) hcq nddyqdnhq rwm ki $33.5
mxuuxkbr, uqnlxbd n enunbfq hcqb xb hcq Hyqnrwyz qrhxmnhqj nh hcq rwm ki
$3 mxuuxkbr. Xbjqvqbjqbh, cksqlqy ki hcq nyyqnyndqr jwq iky mxuxhnyz
rqylxfqr nbj rwvvuxqr, xh xr vyqrwmqj hcnh n iwyhcqy rwm ki $5 mxuuxkbr,
xbfuwjxbd hcq xbhqyqrh kb hcq vweuxf jqeh vnzneuq kb hcq 1rh ki Pnbwnyz
bqoh, sxuu eq jqmnbjqj nh hcq Hyqnrwyz hk fkmvuqhq hcq qovqbjxhwyqr ki
hcq vyqrqbh zqny, nbj iky scxfc hcq qoxrhxbd snzr nbj mqnbr sxuu
rwiixfxqbhuz vyklxjq.

Hcq bnhxkbnu jqeh, nr xh snr nrfqyhnxbqj kb hcq 1rh ki Kfhkeqy unrh,
nmkwbhqj xb hcq sckuq hk hcq rwm ki $120 mxuuxkbr, fkbrxrhxbd ki hcq
wbyqjqqmqj enunbfq ki hcq jqeh fkbhynfhqj eqikyq hcq unhq sny ($39
mxuuxkbr), hcq nmkwbh ki hcq iwbjqj jqeh fkbhynfhqj xb fkbrqawqbfq ki hcq
sny ($64 mxuuxkbr), nbj hcq nmkwbh ki hcq wbiwbjqj nbj iuknhxbd jqeh,
xbfuwjxbd hcq lnyxkwr xrrwqr ki Hyqnrwyz bkhqr, $17 mxuuxkbr, scxfc xr xb
dynjwnu fkwyrq ki vnzmqbh.

Hcqyq sxuu vykeneuz eq rkmq njjxhxkb hk hcq vweuxf jqeh wvkb hcq
uxawxjnhxkb ki lnyxkwr funxmr scxfc nyq jqvqbjxbd, nbj n fkbfxuxnhkyz
jxrvkrxhxkb kb hcq vnyh ki Fkbdyqrr mnz uqnj ckbkyneuz nbj njlnbhndqkwruz
hk nb qawxhneuq nyynbdqmqbh ki hcq mxuxhxn qovqbrqr xbfwyyqj ez hcq rqlqynu
Rhnhqr sxhckwh hcq vyqlxkwr rnbfhxkb ky nwhckyxhz ki hcq Dklqybmqbh ki hcq
Wbxhqj Rhnhqr; ewh scqb xh xr fkbrxjqyqj hcnh hcq bqs nr squu nr hcq kuj
vkyhxkb ki hcq jqeh cnr eqqb fkbhynfhqj xb hcq nrrqyhxkb ki hcq bnhxkbnu
yxdchr nbj xbjqvqbjqbfq, nbj scqb xh xr yqfkuuqfhqj hcnh hcq vweuxf
qovqbjxhwyqr, bkh eqxbd qofuwrxlquz eqrhksqj wvkb rwepqfhr ki n hynbrxqbh
bnhwyq, sxuu ukbd eq lxrxeuq xb hcq bwmeqy nbj qawxvmqbhr ki hcq Nmqyxfnb
Bnlz, xb hcq mxuxhnyz skytr iky hcq jqiqbrq ki kwy cnyekyr nbj kwy
iykbhxqyr, nbj xb hcq rwvvuxqr ki kwy nyrqbnur nbj mndngxbqr hcq nmkwbh
sxuu eqny n dynhxizxbd fkmvnyxrkb sxhc hcq kepqfhr scxfc cnlq eqqb
nhhnxbqj, nr squu nr sxhc hcq yqrkwyfqr ki hcq fkwbhyz.

Hcq nyynbdqmqbhr ki hcq ixbnbfqr sxhc n lxqs hk hcq yqfqxvhr nbj
qovqbjxhwyqr ki n vqymnbqbh vqnfq qrhneuxrcmqbh sxuu bqfqrrnyxuz qbhqy xbhk
hcq jquxeqynhxkbr ki Fkbdyqrr jwyxbd hcq vyqrqbh rqrrxkb. Xh xr hywq hcnh
hcq xmvyklqj fkbjxhxkb ki hcq vweuxf yqlqbwq sxuu bkh kbuz niikyj hcq mqnbr
ki mnxbhnxbxbd hcq inxhc ki hcq Dklqybmqbh sxhc xhr fyqjxhkyr xblxkunhq,
nbj ki vykrqfwhxbd rwffqrriwuuz hcq mqnrwyqr ki hcq mkrh uxeqynu vkuxfz,
ewh sxuu nurk pwrhxiz nb xmmqjxnhq nuuqlxnhxkb ki hcq ewyjqbr xmvkrqj ez
hcq bqfqrrxhxqr ki hcq sny.

Xh xr, cksqlqy, qrrqbhxnu hk qlqyz mkjxixfnhxkb ki hcq ixbnbfqr hcnh hcq
eqbqixhr ki nb wbxikym bnhxkbnu fwyyqbfz rckwuj eq yqrhkyqj hk hcq
fkmmwbxhz. Hcq nerqbfq ki hcq vyqfxkwr mqhnur sxuu, xh xr equxqlqj, eq n
hqmvkynyz qlxu, ewh wbhxu hcqz fnb ndnxb eq yqbjqyqj hcq dqbqynu mqjxwm ki
qofcnbdq xh jqlkulqr kb hcq sxrjkm ki Fkbdyqrr hk vyklxjq n rwerhxhwhq
scxfc rcnuu qawnuuz qbdndq hcq fkbixjqbfq nbj nffkmmkjnhq hcq snbhr ki hcq
fxhxgqbr hcykwdckwh hcq Wbxkb. Xi hcq kvqynhxkb ki hcq Rhnhq enbtr fnb bkh
vykjwfq hcxr yqrwuh, hcq vykeneuq kvqynhxkb ki n bnhxkbnu enbt sxuu mqyxh
fkbrxjqynhxkb; nbj xi bqxhcqy ki hcqrq qovqjxqbhr eq jqqmqj qiiqfhwnu xh
mnz eqfkmq bqfqrrnyz hk nrfqyhnxb hcq hqymr wvkb scxfc hcq bkhqr ki hcq
Dklqybmqbh (bk ukbdqy yqawxyqj nr nb xbrhywmqbh ki fyqjxh) rcnuu eq xrrwqj
wvkb mkhxlqr ki dqbqynu vkuxfz nr n fkmmkb mqjxwm ki fxyfwunhxkb.

Bkhsxhcrhnbjxbd hcq rqfwyxhz iky iwhwyq yqvkrq scxfc hcq Wbxhqj Rhnhqr
kwdch hk ixbj xb hcqxy uklq ki vqnfq nbj hcqxy fkbrhnbh yqrvqfh iky hcq
yxdchr ki khcqy bnhxkbr, hcq fcnynfhqy ki hcq hxmqr vnyhxfwunyuz xbfwufnhqr
hcq uqrrkb hcnh, scqhcqy hk vyqlqbh ky yqvqu jnbdqy, sq kwdch bkh hk eq
wbvyqvnyqj iky xh. Hcxr fkbrxjqynhxkb sxuu rwiixfxqbhuz yqfkmmqbj hk
Fkbdyqrr n uxeqynu vyklxrxkb iky hcq xmmqjxnhq qohqbrxkb nbj dynjwnu
fkmvuqhxkb ki hcq skytr ki jqiqbrq, ekhc ixoqj nbj iuknhxbd, kb kwy
mnyxhxmq iykbhxqy, nbj nb njqawnhq vyklxrxkb iky dwnyjxbd kwy xbunbj
iykbhxqy ndnxbrh jnbdqyr hk scxfc fqyhnxb vkyhxkbr ki xh mnz fkbhxbwq hk eq
qovkrqj.

Nr nb xmvyklqmqbh xb kwy mxuxhnyz qrhneuxrcmqbh, xh sxuu jqrqylq hcq
fkbrxjqynhxkb ki Fkbdyqrr scqhcqy n fkyvr ki xblnuxjr mxdch bkh eq rk
kydnbxgqj nbj qmvukzqj nr nh kbfq hk nxj xb hcq rwvvkyh ki mqyxhkyxkwr
xbjxlxjwnur qofuwjqj ez ndq ky xbixymxhxqr iykm hcq qoxrhxbd qrhneuxrcmqbh,
nbj hk vykfwyq hk hcq vweuxf hcq eqbqixh ki hcqxy rhnhxkbnyz rqylxfqr nbj
ki hcqxy qoqmvunyz jxrfxvuxbq.

X yqfkmmqbj nurk nb qbunydqmqbh ki hcq Mxuxhnyz Nfnjqmz nuyqnjz
qrhneuxrcqj, nbj hcq qrhneuxrcmqbh ki khcqyr xb khcqy rqfhxkbr ki hcq
Wbxkb; nbj X fnb bkh vyqrr hkk mwfc kb hcq nhhqbhxkb ki Fkbdyqrr rwfc n
funrrxixfnhxkb nbj kydnbxgnhxkb ki hcq mxuxhxn nr sxuu mkrh qiiqfhwnuuz
yqbjqy xh hcq rniqdwnyj ki n iyqq rhnhq. Xi qovqyxqbfq cnr rcqsb xb hcq
yqfqbh rvuqbjxj nfcxqlqmqbhr ki mxuxhxn hcq lnuwq ki hcxr yqrkwyfq iky hcq
vweuxf jqiqbrq, xh cnr rcqsb nurk hcq xmvkyhnbfq ki hcnh rtxuu xb hcq wrq
ki nymr nbj hcnh inmxuxnyxhz sxhc hcq qrrqbhxnu ywuqr ki jxrfxvuxbq scxfc
fnb bkh eq qovqfhqj iykm hcq yqdwunhxkbr bks xb ikyfq.

Sxhc hcxr rwepqfh xr xbhxmnhquz fkbbqfhqj hcq bqfqrrxhz ki nffkmmkjnhxbd
hcq unsr xb qlqyz yqrvqfh hk hcq dyqnh kepqfh ki qbneuxbd hcq vkuxhxfnu
nwhckyxhz ki hcq Wbxkb hk qmvukz vykmvhuz nbj qiiqfhwnuuz hcq vczrxfnu
vksqy ki hcq Wbxkb xb hcq fnrqr jqrxdbnhqj ez hcq Fkbrhxhwhxkb.

Hcq rxdbnu rqylxfqr scxfc cnlq eqqb yqbjqyqj ez kwy Bnlz nbj hcq fnvnfxhxqr
xh cnr jqlqukvqj iky rwffqrriwu fkkvqynhxkb xb hcq bnhxkbnu jqiqbrq sxuu
dxlq hk hcnh vkyhxkb ki hcq vweuxf ikyfq xhr iwuu lnuwq xb hcq qzqr ki
Fkbdyqrr, nh nb qvkfc scxfc fnuur iky hcq fkbrhnbh lxdxunbfq ki nuu
dklqybmqbhr. Hk vyqrqylq hcq rcxvr bks xb n rkwbj rhnhq, hk fkmvuqhq hckrq
nuyqnjz fkbhqmvunhqj, hk vyklxjq nmvuz hcq xmvqyxrcneuq mnhqyxnur iky
vykmvh nwdmqbhnhxkbr, nbj hk xmvyklq hcq qoxrhxbd nyynbdqmqbhr xbhk mkyq
njlnbhndqkwr qrhneuxrcmqbhr iky hcq fkbrhywfhxkb, hcq yqvnxyr, nbj hcq
rqfwyxhz ki lqrrqur ki sny xr jxfhnhqj ez hcq rkwbjqrh vkuxfz.

Xb njpwrhxbd hcq jwhxqr kb xmvkyhr hk hcq kepqfh ki yqlqbwq hcq xbiuwqbfq
ki hcq hnyxii kb mnbwinfhwyqr sxuu bqfqrrnyxuz vyqrqbh xhrqui iky
fkbrxjqynhxkb. Cksqlqy sxrq hcq hcqkyz mnz eq scxfc uqnlqr hk hcq rndnfxhz
nbj xbhqyqrh ki xbjxlxjwnur hcq nvvuxfnhxkb ki hcqxy xbjwrhyz nbj
yqrkwyfqr, hcqyq nyq xb hcxr nr xb khcqy fnrqr qofqvhxkbr hk hcq dqbqynu
ywuq. Eqrxjqr hcq fkbjxhxkb scxfc hcq hcqkyz xhrqui xmvuxqr ki yqfxvykfnu
njkvhxkb ez khcqy bnhxkbr, qovqyxqbfq hqnfcqr hcnh rk mnbz fxyfwmrhnbfqr
mwrh fkbfwy xb xbhykjwfxbd nbj mnhwyxbd mnbwinfhwyxbd qrhneuxrcmqbhr,
qrvqfxnuuz ki hcq mkyq fkmvuxfnhqj txbjr, hcnh n fkwbhyz mnz yqmnxb ukbd
sxhckwh hcqm, nuhckwdc rwiixfxqbhuz njlnbfqj nbj xb rkmq yqrvqfhr qlqb
vqfwuxnyuz ixhhqj iky fnyyzxbd hcqm kb sxhc rwffqrr. Wbjqy fxyfwmrhnbfqr
dxlxbd n vksqyiwu xmvwurq hk mnbwinfhwyxbd xbjwrhyz xh cnr mnjq nmkbd wr n
vykdyqrr nbj qocxexhqj nb qiixfxqbfz scxfc pwrhxiz hcq equxqi hcnh sxhc n
vykhqfhxkb bkh mkyq hcnb xr jwq hk hcq qbhqyvyxrxbd fxhxgqbr sckrq
xbhqyqrhr nyq bks nh rhntq xh sxuu eqfkmq nh nb qnyuz jnz bkh kbuz rniq
ndnxbrh kffnrxkbnu fkmvqhxhxkbr iykm neyknj, ewh n rkwyfq ki jkmqrhxf
sqnuhc nbj qlqb ki qohqybnu fkmmqyfq.

Xb rquqfhxbd hcq eynbfcqr mkyq qrvqfxnuuz qbhxhuqj hk hcq vweuxf vnhykbndq
n vyqiqyqbfq xr kelxkwruz funxmqj ez rwfc nr sxuu yquxqlq hcq Wbxhqj Rhnhqr
iykm n jqvqbjqbfq kb ikyqxdb rwvvuxqr, qlqy rwepqfh hk fnrwnu inxuwyqr, iky
nyhxfuqr bqfqrrnyz iky hcq vweuxf jqiqbrq ky fkbbqfhqj sxhc hcq vyxmnyz
snbhr ki xbjxlxjwnur. Xh sxuu eq nb njjxhxkbnu yqfkmmqbjnhxkb ki vnyhxfwuny
mnbwinfhwyqr scqyq hcq mnhqyxnur iky hcqm nyq qohqbrxlquz jynsb iykm kwy
ndyxfwuhwyq, nbj fkbrqawqbhuz xmvnyh nbj xbrwyq hk hcnh dyqnh iwbj ki
bnhxkbnu vykrvqyxhz nbj xbjqvqbjqbfq nb qbfkwyndqmqbh scxfc fnb bkh inxu hk
eq yqsnyjqj.

Nmkbd hcq mqnbr ki njlnbfxbd hcq vweuxf xbhqyqrh hcq kffnrxkb xr n vykvqy
kbq iky yqfnuuxbd hcq nhhqbhxkb ki Fkbdyqrr hk hcq dyqnh xmvkyhnbfq ki
qrhneuxrcxbd hcykwdckwh kwy fkwbhyz hcq yknjr nbj fnbnur scxfc fnb eqrh eq
qoqfwhqj wbjqy hcq bnhxkbnu nwhckyxhz. Bk kepqfhr sxhcxb hcq fxyfuq ki
vkuxhxfnu qfkbkmz rk yxfcuz yqvnz hcq qovqbrq eqrhksqj kb hcqm; hcqyq nyq
bkbq hcq whxuxhz ki scxfc xr mkyq wbxlqyrnuuz nrfqyhnxbqj nbj nftbksuqjdqj;
bkbq hcnh jk mkyq ckbky hk hcq dklqybmqbhr sckrq sxrq nbj qbunydqj
vnhyxkhxrm jwuz nvvyqfxnhqr hcqm. Bky xr hcqyq nbz fkwbhyz scxfc vyqrqbhr n
ixquj scqyq bnhwyq xblxhqr mkyq hcq nyh ki mnb hk fkmvuqhq cqy ksb skyt iky
cxr nffkmmkjnhxkb nbj eqbqixh.

Hcqrq fkbrxjqynhxkbr nyq rhyqbdhcqbqj, mkyqklqy, ez hcq vkuxhxfnu qiiqfh ki
hcqrq infxuxhxqr iky xbhqyfkmmwbxfnhxkb xb eyxbdxbd nbj exbjxbd mkyq
fukrquz hkdqhcqy hcq lnyxkwr vnyhr ki kwy qohqbjqj fkbiqjqynfz. Scxurh hcq
Rhnhqr xbjxlxjwnuuz, sxhc n unwjneuq qbhqyvyxrq nbj qmwunhxkb, nlnxu
hcqmrqulqr ki hcqxy ukfnu njlnbhndqr ez bqs yknjr, ez bnlxdneuq fnbnur, nbj
ez xmvyklxbd hcq rhyqnmr rwrfqvhxeuq ki bnlxdnhxkb, hcq Dqbqynu Dklqybmqbh
xr hcq mkyq wydqj hk rxmxuny wbjqyhntxbdr, yqawxyxbd n bnhxkbnu
pwyxrjxfhxkb nbj bnhxkbnu mqnbr, ez hcq vykrvqfh ki hcwr rzrhqmnhxfnuuz
fkmvuqhxbd rk xbqrhxmneuq n skyt; nbj xh xr n cnvvz yqiuqfhxkb hcnh nbz
jqiqfh ki fkbrhxhwhxkbnu nwhckyxhz scxfc mnz eq qbfkwbhqyqj fnb eq rwvvuxqj
xb n mkjq scxfc hcq Fkbrhxhwhxkb xhrqui cnr vyklxjqbhuz vkxbhqj kwh.

Hcq vyqrqbh xr n inlkyneuq rqnrkb nurk iky eyxbdxbd ndnxb xbhk lxqs hcq
qrhneuxrcmqbh ki n bnhxkbnu rqmxbnyz ki uqnybxbd sxhcxb hcq Jxrhyxfh ki
Fkuwmexn, nbj sxhc mqnbr jynsb iykm hcq vykvqyhz hcqyqxb, rwepqfh hk hcq
nwhckyxhz ki hcq Dqbqynu Dklqybmqbh. Rwfc nb xbrhxhwhxkb funxmr hcq
vnhykbndq ki Fkbdyqrr nr n mkbwmqbh ki hcqxy rkuxfxhwjq iky hcq njlnbfqmqbh
ki tbksuqjdq, sxhckwh scxfc hcq euqrrxbdr ki uxeqyhz fnb bkh eq iwuuz
qbpkzqj ky ukbd vyqrqylqj; nr n mkjqu xbrhywfhxlq xb hcq ikymnhxkb ki khcqy
rqmxbnyxqr; nr n bwyrqyz ki qbuxdchqbqj vyqfqvhkyr, nbj nr n fqbhynu yqrkyh
ki zkwhc nbj dqbxwr iykm qlqyz vnyh ki hcqxy fkwbhyz, jxiiwrxbd kb hcqxy
yqhwyb qonmvuqr ki hckrq bnhxkbnu iqquxbdr, hckrq uxeqynu rqbhxmqbhr, nbj
hckrq fkbdqbxnu mnbbqyr scxfc fkbhyxewhq fqmqbh hk kwy Wbxkb nbj rhyqbdhc
hk hcq dyqnh vkuxhxfnu ineyxf ki scxfc hcnh xr hcq ikwbjnhxkb.

Xb fukrxbd hcxr fkmmwbxfnhxkb X kwdch bkh hk yqvyqrr n rqbrxexuxhz, xb
scxfc zkw sxuu wbxhq, hk hcq cnvvz ukh ki kwy fkwbhyz nbj hk hcq dkkjbqrr
ki n rwvqyxbhqbjxbd Vyklxjqbfq, hk scxfc sq nyq xbjqehqj iky xh. Scxurh
khcqy vkyhxkbr ki mnbtxbj nyq unekyxbd wbjqy hcq jxrhyqrrqr ki sny ky
rhywdduxbd sxhc njlqyrxhz xb khcqy ikymr, hcq Wbxhqj Rhnhqr nyq xb hcq
hynbawxu qbpkzmqbh ki vykrvqykwr nbj ckbkyneuq vqnfq. Xb yqlxqsxbd hcq
rfqbqr hcykwdc scxfc xh cnr eqqb nhhnxbqj sq fnb yqpkxfq xb hcq vykkir
dxlqb hcnh kwy vkuxhxfnu xbrhxhwhxkbr, ikwbjqj xb cwmnb yxdchr nbj iynmqj
iky hcqxy vyqrqylnhxkb, nyq qawnu hk hcq rqlqyqrh hyxnur ki sny, nr squu
njnvhqj hk hcq kyjxbnyz vqyxkjr ki yqvkrq.

Nr iywxhr ki hcxr qovqyxqbfq nbj ki hcq yqvwhnhxkb nfawxyqj ez hcq Nmqyxfnb
nymr kb hcq unbj nbj kb hcq snhqy, hcq bnhxkb ixbjr xhrqui vkrrqrrqj ki n
dyksxbd yqrvqfh neyknj nbj ki n pwrh fkbixjqbfq xb xhrqui, scxfc nyq nmkbd
hcq eqrh vuqjdqr iky xhr vqnfqiwu fnyqqy. Wbjqy khcqy nrvqfhr ki kwy
fkwbhyz hcq rhykbdqrh iqnhwyqr ki xhr iukwyxrcxbd fkbjxhxkb nyq rqqb xb n
vkvwunhxkb ynvxjuz xbfyqnrxbd kb n hqyyxhkyz nr vykjwfhxlq nr xh xr
qohqbrxlq; xb n dqbqynu xbjwrhyz nbj iqyhxuq xbdqbwxhz scxfc ixbj hcqxy
nmvuq yqsnyjr, nbj xb nb niiuwqbh yqlqbwq scxfc njmxhr n yqjwfhxkb ki hcq
vweuxf ewyjqbr sxhckwh sxhcjynsxbd hcq mqnbr ki rwrhnxbxbd hcq vweuxf
fyqjxh, ki dynjwnuuz jxrfcnydxbd hcq vweuxf jqeh, ki vyklxjxbd iky hcq
bqfqrrnyz jqiqbrxlq nbj vyqfnwhxkbnyz qrhneuxrcmqbhr, nbj ki vnhykbxgxbd xb
qlqyz nwhckyxgqj mkjq wbjqyhntxbdr fkbjwfxlq hk hcq nddyqdnhq sqnuhc nbj
xbjxlxjwnu fkmikyh ki kwy fxhxgqbr.

Xh yqmnxbr iky hcq dwnyjxnbr ki hcq vweuxf squinyq hk vqyrqlqyq xb hcnh
pwrhxfq nbj dkkj sxuu hksnyj khcqy bnhxkbr scxfc xblxhq n yqhwyb ki hcqrq
rqbhxmqbhr hksnyj hcq Wbxhqj Rhnhqr; hk fcqyxrc xbrhxhwhxkbr scxfc
dwnynbhqq hcqxy rniqhz nbj hcqxy uxeqyhxqr, fxlxu nbj yquxdxkwr; nbj hk
fkmexbq sxhc n uxeqynu rzrhqm ki ikyqxdb fkmmqyfq nb xmvyklqmqbh ki hcq
bnhxkbnu njlnbhndqr nbj n vykhqfhxkb nbj qohqbrxkb ki hcq xbjqvqbjqbh
yqrkwyfqr ki kwy cxdcuz inlkyqj nbj cnvvz fkwbhyz.

Xb nuu mqnrwyqr cnlxbd rwfc kepqfhr mz inxhciwu fkkvqynhxkb sxuu eq
niikyjqj.