Wnhhip-Gjzjbnym iw zln Mnyczn cyq Litmn iw Fnvfnmnyzczjknm:

Cz zln vnfjiq iw itf hcmz onnzjys J lcq zln mczjmwcgzjiy iw giootyjgczjys
cy cqatmzonyz pjzl iyn iw zln vfjygjvch unhhjsnfnyz yczjiym, ljslhx
jovifzcyz jy jzmnhw, cyq mzjhh oifn mi cm vfnmcsjys c oifn nrznyqnq
cggiooiqczjiy. Jz jm pjzl qnnv giygnfy J co yip zi jywifo xit zlcz zln
wckifcuhn vfimvngz lcm unny iknf-ghitqnq ux c fnwtmch iw zln Ufjzjml
Siknfyonyz zi cujqn ux zln cgz iw jzm ojyjmznf vhnyjviznyzjcfx, cyq ux jzm
nymtjys vihjgx zipcfq zln Tyjznq Mzcznm cm mnny zlfitsl zln giootyjgczjiym
iw zln ojyjmznf mnyz zi fnvhcgn ljo.

Plcznknf vhncm ocx un tfsnq wif c qjmckipch iw nyscsnonyzm wifonq ux
qjvhioczjg wtygzjiycfjnm jy gcmnm plnfn ux zln znfom iw zln nyscsnonyzm c
otztch fczjwjgczjiy jm fnmnfknq, if plnfn yizjgn cz zln zjon ocx lckn unny
sjkny iw c qnvcfztfn wfio jymzftgzjiym, if jy nrzfcifqjycfx gcmnm
nmmnyzjchhx kjihczjys zln vfjygjvhnm iw ndtjzx, c qjmckipch githq yiz lckn
unny cvvfnlnyqnq jy c gcmn plnfn yi mtgl yizjgn if kjihczjiy nrjmznq, plnfn
yi mtgl fczjwjgczjiy pcm fnmnfknq, cyq oifn nmvngjchhx plnfn, cm jm yip jy
vfiiw, cy nyscsnonyz zi un nrngtznq pjzlitz cyx mtgl fczjwjgczjiy pcm
giyznovhcznq ux zln jymzftgzjiym sjkny, cyq plnfn jz lcq pjzl siiq wcjzl
unny gcffjnq jyzi joonqjczn nrngtzjiy iy zln vcfz iw zln Tyjznq Mzcznm.

Zlnmn giymjqnfczjiym yiz lckjys fnmzfcjynq zln Ufjzjml Siknfyonyz wfio
qjmckipjys zln cffcysnonyz ux kjfztn iw pljgl jzm ifqnfm jy gitygjh pnfn zi
un fnkienq, cyq zln nknyz ctzlifjbjys zln fnynpch iw gioonfgjch jyznfgitfmn
lckjys zltm yiz zceny vhcgn, jz yngnmmcfjhx ungcon c dtnmzjiy iw ndtch
tfsnygx cyq jovifzcygn plnzlnf zln cgz vfiljujzjys zlcz jyznfgitfmn pcm yiz
zi un giymjqnfnq cm fnocjyjys jy hnsch wifgn. Zljm dtnmzjiy unjys, cwznf
qtn qnhjunfczjiy, qnznfojynq jy zln cwwjfoczjkn, c vfighcoczjiy zi zlcz
nwwngz pcm jmmtnq. Jz githq yiz utz lcvvny, lipnknf, zlcz c fnztfy zi zljm
mzczn iw zljysm wfio zlcz pljgl lcq wihhipnq cy nrngtzjiy iw zln
cffcysnonyz ux zln Tyjznq Mzcznm pithq jykihkn qjwwjgthzjnm. Pjzl c kjnp zi
qjojyjml zlnmn cm otgl cm vimmjuhn, zln jymzftgzjiym wfio zln Mngfnzcfx iw
zln Zfncmtfx yip hcjq unwifn xit pnfn zfcymojzznq zi zln gihhngzifm iw zln
mnknfch vifzm. Jw jy vnfojzzjys Ufjzjml knmmnhm zi qnvcfz pjzlitz sjkjys
uiyqm yiz zi vfignnq zi zlnjf ipy vifzm jz mlithq cvvncf zlcz zln znyif iw
hnsch ctzlifjzx lcm yiz unny mzfjgzhx vtfmtnq, jz jm zi un cmgfjunq zi zln
cyrjitm qnmjfn pljgl pcm wnhz zlcz yi jyqjkjqtchm mlithq un jyatfnq ux mi
tywifnmnny cy iggtffnygn; cyq J fnhx iy zln fnscfq iw Giysfnmm wif zln
ndtjzcuhn jyznfnmzm iw itf ipy gjzjbnym zi cqivz plcznknf wtfzlnf
vfikjmjiym ocx un wityq fndtjmjzn wif c snynfch fnojmmjiy iw vnychzjnm
jykihtyzcfjhx jygtffnq.

Zln fngchh iw zln qjmckipnq ojyjmznf lckjys unny wihhipnq ux zln
cvvijyzonyz iw c mtggnmmif, livnm pnfn jyqthsnq zlcz zln ynp ojmmjiy pithq
giyzfjutzn zi chhnkjczn zln qjmcvvijyzonyz pljgl lcq unny vfiqtgnq, cyq zi
fnoikn zln gctmnm pljgl lcq mi hiys noucffcmmnq zln siiq tyqnfmzcyqjys iw
zln zpi yczjiym. Jz githq yiz un qituznq zlcz jz pithq cz hncmz un glcfsnq
pjzl giygjhjczifx nrvhcyczjiym iw zln mznv pljgl lcq unny zceny cyq pjzl
vfivimchm zi un mtumzjztznq wif zln fnangznq cffcysnonyz.

Fncmiycuhn cyq tyjknfmch cm zljm nrvngzczjiy pcm, jz chmi lcm yiz unny
wthwjhhnq. Wfio zln wjfmz iwwjgjch qjmghimtfnm iw zln ynp ojyjmznf jz pcm
wityq zlcz ln lcq fngnjknq yi ctzlifjzx zi nyznf jyzi nrvhcyczjiym fnhczjkn
zi njzlnf ufcygl iw zln cffcysnonyz qjmckipnq yif cyx ctzlifjzx zi
mtumzjztzn vfivimchm cm zi zlcz ufcygl pljgl giygnfynq zln Ufjzjml ifqnfm
jy gitygjh, cyq, wjychhx, zlcz ljm vfivimchm pjzl fnscfq zi zln izlnf
ufcygl, zln czzcge iy zln wfjsczn Glnmcvncen, pnfn wityqnq iy c
vfnmtovzjiy fnvncznqhx qnghcfnq zi un jycqojmmjuhn ux zln Tyjznq Mzcznm,
zlcz zln wjfmz mznv zipcfq cqatmzonyz pcm qtn wfio zlno, zln vfivimchm
cz zln mcon zjon iojzzjys nkny c fnwnfnygn zi zln iwwjgnf cympnfcuhn wif
zln otfqnfitm cssfnmmjiy, cyq cmmnfzjys c ghcjo yiz hnmm giyzfcfx zi zln
Ufjzjml hcpm cyq Ufjzjml vfcgzjgn zlcy zi zln vfjygjvhnm cyq iuhjsczjiym
iw zln Tyjznq Mzcznm.

Zln giffnmviyqnygn unzpnny zln Qnvcfzonyz iw Mzczn cyq zljm ojyjmznf pjhh
mlip lip tynmmnyzjchhx zln wncztfnm vfnmnyznq jy jzm gioonygnonyz lckn unny
kcfjnq jy jzm vfisfnmm. Jz pjhh mlip chmi zlcz, wifsnzzjys zln fnmvngz qtn
zi chh siknfyonyzm, ln qjq yiz fnwfcjy wfio jovtzczjiym iy zljm, pljgl
fndtjfnq zlcz yi wtfzlnf giootyjgczjiym mlithq un fngnjknq wfio ljo. Zln
yngnmmjzx iw zljm mznv pjhh un ocqn eyipy zi Ljm Ufjzcyyjg Ocanmzx zlfitsl
zln ojyjmznf vhnyjviznyzjcfx iw zln Tyjznq Mzcznm jy Hiyqiy; cyq jz pithq
jyqjgczn c pcyz iw zln giywjqnygn qtn zi c Siknfyonyz pljgl mi pnhh
tyqnfmzcyqm cyq nrcgzm plcz ungionm wifnjsy ojyjmznfm yncf jz yiz zi jywnf
zlcz zln ojmgiyqtgz iw jzm ipy fnvfnmnyzczjkn pjhh un kjnpnq jy zln mcon
hjslz jy pljgl jz lcm unny fnscfqnq lnfn. Zln Ufjzjml Siknfyonyz pjhh hncfy
cz zln mcon zjon zlcz c fncqx czznyzjiy pjhh un sjkny zi giootyjgczjiym
zlfitsl cyx glcyynh pljgl ocx un mtumzjztznq. Jz pjhh un lcvvx jw zln
glcysn jy zljm fnmvngz mlithq un cggiovcyjnq ux c wckifcuhn fnkjmjiy iw zln
tywfjnyqhx vihjgx pljgl lcm unny mi hiys vtfmtnq zipcfq zln Tyjznq Mzcznm.

Pjzl Wfcygn, zln izlnf unhhjsnfnyz, plimn zfnmvcmmnm iy itf gioonfgjch
fjslzm lckn hiys unny zln mtuangz iw itf atmz fnoiymzfcygnm, zln vimztfn iw
itf fnhczjiym qinm yiz giffnmviyq pjzl zln oncmtfnm zceny iy zln vcfz iw
zln Tyjznq Mzcznm zi nwwngz c wckifcuhn glcysn. Zln fnmthz iw zln mnknfch
giootyjgczjiym ocqn zi lnf Siknfyonyz, jy vtfmtcygn iw zln ctzlifjzjnm
knmznq ux Giysfnmm jy zln Nrngtzjkn, jm giyzcjynq jy zln giffnmviyqnygn iw
itf ojyjmznf cz Vcfjm yip hcjq unwifn xit.

Ux mion iw zln izlnf unhhjsnfnyzm, chzlitsl vfiwnmmjys atmz cyq cojgcuhn
qjmvimjzjiym, jyatfjnm ocznfjchhx cwwngzjys itf gioonfgn lckn yiz unny qthx
giyzfihhnq if fnvfnmmnq. Jy zlnmn gcmnm zln jyznfvimjzjiym qnnonq vfivnf iy
itf vcfz lckn yiz unny iojzznq. Utz jz pnhh qnmnfknm zln giymjqnfczjiy iw
zln Hnsjmhcztfn lip wcf uizl zln mcwnzx cyq zln liyif iw zln Confjgcy whcs
ocx un giymthznq, ux cqndtczn vfikjmjiym cscjymz zlcz gihhtmjkn
vfimzjztzjiy iw jz ux jyqjkjqtchm typifzlx iw zln Confjgcy ycon pljgl lcm
mi otgl whckifnq zln fnch if vfnznyqnq mtmvjgjiym tyqnf pljgl zln liynmz
gioonfgn iw zlnjf wnhhip gjzjbnym lcm mtwwnfnq.

Jy fnhczjiy zi zln vipnfm iy zln gicmz iw Ucfucfx, yizljys lcm iggtffnq
pljgl jm yiz iw c ycztfn fczlnf zi jymvjfn giywjqnygn zlcy qjmzftmz cm zi
zln giyzjytcygn iw zln nrjmzjys cojzx. Pjzl itf Jyqjcy ynjsluifm, zln atmz
cyq unynkihnyz mxmzno giyzjytnq zipcfq zlno lcm chmi vfnmnfknq vncgn, cyq
jm oifn cyq oifn cqkcygjys lcujzm wckifcuhn zi zlnjf gjkjhjbczjiy cyq
lcvvjynmm.

Wfio c mzcznonyz pljgl pjhh un ocqn ux zln Mngfnzcfx iw Pcf jz pjhh un mnny
zlcz zln wifzjwjgczjiym iy itf ocfjzjon wfiyzjnf cfn jy ocyx iw zln vifzm
giovhnznq, cwwifqjys zln qnwnymn pljgl pcm giyznovhcznq, cyq zlcz c wtfzlnf
zjon pjhh un fndtjfnq zi fnyqnf giovhnzn zln pifem jy zln lcfuif iw Ynp
Xife cyq jy mion izlnf vhcgnm. Ux zln nyhcfsnonyz iw zln pifem cyq zln
novhixonyz iw c sfncznf ytounf iw lcyqm cz zln vtuhjg cfoifjnm zln mtvvhx
iw mochh cfom iw cy jovfikjys dtchjzx cvvncfm zi un cyytchhx jygfncmjys cz
c fczn zlcz, pjzl zlimn ocqn iy vfjkczn giyzfcgz, ocx un nrvngznq zi si wcf
zipcfq vfikjqjys wif zln vtuhjg nrjsnygx.

Zln cgz iw Giysfnmm vfikjqjys wif zln ndtjvonyz iw itf knmmnhm iw pcf
lckjys unny wthhx gcffjnq jyzi nrngtzjiy, J fnwnf zi zln mzcznonyz iw zln
Mngfnzcfx iw zln Yckx wif zln jywifoczjiy pljgl ocx un vfivnf iy zlcz
mtuangz. Zi zlcz mzcznonyz jm cqqnq c kjnp iw zln zfcymwnfm iw
cvvfivfjczjiym ctzlifjbnq ux zln cgz iw zln mnmmjiy vfngnqjys zln hcmz cyq
iw zln sfityqm iy pljgl zln zfcymwnfm pnfn ocqn.

Plcznknf ocx un zln gitfmn iw xitf qnhjunfczjiym iy zln mtuangz iw itf
ojhjzcfx nmzcuhjmlonyzm, J mlithq wcjh jy ox qtzx jy yiz fngioonyqjys zi
xitf mnfjitm czznyzjiy zln jovifzcygn iw sjkjys zi itf ojhjzjc, zln sfncz
uthpcfe iw itf mngtfjzx cyq fnmitfgn iw itf vipnf, cy ifscyjbczjiy unmz
cqcvznq zi nknyztch mjztczjiym wif pljgl zln Tyjznq Mzcznm itslz zi un
vfnvcfnq.

Zln mtom pljgl lcq unny vfnkjitmhx cggtothcznq jy zln Zfncmtfx, zisnzlnf
pjzl zln fngnjvzm qtfjys zln xncf nyqjys iy zln 30zl iw Mnvznounf hcmz (cyq
coityzjys zi oifn zlcy $9 ojhhjiym), lckn nycuhnq tm zi wthwjhh chh itf
nyscsnonyzm cyq zi qnwfcx zln gtffnyz nrvnymnm iw Siknfyonyz pjzlitz
fngtffjys zi cyx hicy. Utz zln jymngtfjzx iw itf gioonfgn cyq zln
giymndtnyz qjojytzjiy iw zln vtuhjg fnknytn pjhh vfiucuhx vfiqtgn c
qnwjgjnygx jy zln fngnjvzm iw zln nymtjys xncf, wif pljgl cyq wif izlnf
qnzcjhm J fnwnf zi zln mzcznonyzm pljgl pjhh un zfcymojzznq wfio zln
Zfncmtfx.

Jy zln mzczn pljgl lcm unny vfnmnyznq iw itf cwwcjfm pjzl zln sfncz vcfzjnm
zi c qjmcmzfitm cyq vfizfcgznq pcf, gcffjnq iy jy c oiqn ndtchhx jyatfjitm
cyq tyatmz zi zln Tyjznq Mzcznm cm c yntzfch yczjiy, zln pjmqio iw zln
Yczjiych Hnsjmhcztfn pjhh un cscjy mtooiynq zi zln jovifzcyz qngjmjiy iy
zln chznfyczjknm unwifn zlno. Zlcz zlnmn pjhh un onz jy c mvjfjz pifzlx zln
gitygjhm iw c yczjiy giymgjitm uizl iw jzm fngzjztqn cyq iw jzm fjslzm, cyq
gcfnwth cm pnhh iw jzm liyif cm iw jzm vncgn, J lckn cy nyzjfn giywjqnygn;
cyq zlcz zln fnmthz pjhh un mzcovnq ux c tycyjojzx ungiojys zln iggcmjiy,
cyq un mtvvifznq ux nknfx vifzjiy iw itf gjzjbnym pjzl c vczfjizjmo
nyhjslznynq cyq jykjsifcznq ux nrvnfjnygn, itslz cm hjzzhn zi un qituznq.

Jy zln ojqmz iw zln pfiysm cyq knrczjiym nrvnfjnygnq wfio nrznfych gctmnm
zlnfn jm otgl fiio wif giysfczthczjiy iy zln vfimvnfjzx cyq lcvvjynmm
whipjys wfio itf mjztczjiy cz lion. Zln uhnmmjys iw lnchzl lcm ynknf unny
oifn tyjknfmch. Zln wftjzm iw zln mncmiym, zlitsl jy vcfzjgthcf cfzjghnm
cyq qjmzfjgzm mlifz iw zlnjf tmtch fnqtyqcygx, cfn oifn zlcy mtwwjgjnyz wif
itf pcyzm cyq itf giowifzm. Zln wcgn iw itf gityzfx nknf vfnmnyzm nkjqnygn
iw hctqcuhn nyznfvfjmn, iw nrznymjkn gcvjzch, cyq iw qtfcuhn jovfiknonyz.
Jy c gthzjkczjiy iw zln ocznfjchm cyq zln nrznymjiy iw tmnwth ocytwcgztfnm,
oifn nmvngjchhx jy zln snynfch cvvhjgczjiy zi litmnlihq wcufjgm, pn unlihq
c fcvjq qjojytzjiy iw itf qnvnyqnygn iy wifnjsy mtvvhjnm. Yif jm jz
typifzlx iw fnwhngzjiy zlcz zljm fnkihtzjiy jy itf vtfmtjzm cyq lcujzm jm
jy yi mhjslz qnsfnn c giymndtnygn iw zlimn jovihjzjg cyq cfujzfcfx nqjgzm
ux pljgl zln giyznyqjys yczjiym, jy nyqnckifjys ncgl iw zlno zi iumzftgz
itf zfcqn pjzl zln izlnf, lckn mi wcf cufjqsnq itf oncym iw vfigtfjys zln
vfiqtgzjiym cyq ocytwcgztfnm iw pljgl itf ipy cfn yip zcejys zln vhcgn.

Fngihhngzjys chpcxm zlcz wif nknfx cqkcyzcsn pljgl ocx giyzfjutzn zi
qjmzjystjml itf hiz wfio zlcz zi pljgl izlnfm cfn qiionq ux zln tylcvvx
mvjfjz iw zln zjonm pn cfn jyqnuznq zi zlcz Qjkjyn Vfikjqnygn plimn
siiqynmm lcm unny mi fnocfecuhx nrznyqnq zi zljm fjmjys yczjiy, jz ungionm
tm zi glnfjml c qnkitz sfczjztqn, cyq zi jovhifn wfio zln mcon ioyjviznyz
mitfgn c uhnmmjys iy zln giymthzczjiym cyq oncmtfnm cuitz zi un tyqnfzceny
wif zln pnhwcfn iw itf unhiknq gityzfx.