Qc qzd Kdygqd gyu Zcjkd cw Ldtldkdyqgqfndk:

Ycqafqzkqgyufyx qzd guudu ojludyk ldyudldu ydmdkkglv ov qzd agl, cjl tdctpd
ldrcfmd fy g ndlv kgqfkwgmqclv gyu kqdgufpv fymldgkfyx udxldd cw
tlcktdlfqv, dnfudymdu ov qzd pglxdkq ncpjid cw ojkfydkk dndl ldmcludu.
Igyjwgmqjld zgk oddy tlcujmqfnd, gxlfmjpqjlgp tjlkjfqk zgnd vfdpudu
gojyugyq ldqjlyk, pgocl fy gpp wfdpuk cw fyujkqlv fk odqqdl ldagludu,
ldndyjd pdxfkpgqfcy tgkkdu ov qzd tldkdyq Mcyxldkk zgk fymldgkdu qzd
Qldgkjlv'k ldmdftqk qc qzd gicjyq dkqfigqdu ov fqk gjqzclk, qzd wfygymdk cw
qzd Xcndlyidyq zgnd oddy kjmmdkkwjppv guifyfkqdldu gyu fqk mldufq gungymdu
qc qzd wflkq lgys, azfpd fqk mjlldymv zgk oddy igfyqgfydu gq qzd aclpu'k
zfxzdkq kqgyuglu. Ifpfqglv kdlnfmd jyudl g mciicy wpgx gyu wcl g lfxzqdcjk
mgjkd zgk kqldyxqzdydu qzd ygqfcygp ktflfq gyu kdlndu qc mdidyq icld
mpckdpv qzgy dndl qzd wlgqdlygp ocyuk odqaddy dndlv kdmqfcy cw qzd
mcjyqlv.

G ldnfda cw qzd ldpgqfcy cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc cqzdl tcadlk, gpagvk
gttlctlfgqd, fk qzfk vdgl cw tlfiglv fitclqgymd fy nfda cw qzd icidyqcjk
fkkjdk azfmz zgnd glfkdy, udigyufyx fy cyd fykqgymd qzd jpqfigqd
udqdlifygqfcy ov glik gyu fyncpnfyx wgl-ldgmzfyx mcykdbjdymdk azfmz afpp
ldbjfld qzd dglydkq gqqdyqfcy cw qzd Mcyxldkk.

Fy iv pgkq gyyjgp idkkgxd ndlv wjpp mcykfudlgqfcy agk xfndy qc qzd bjdkqfcy
cw qzd ujqv cw qzd Xcndlyidyq cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qcaglu Ktgfy gyu qzd
Mjogy fykjlldmqfcy gk odfyx ov wgl qzd ickq fitclqgyq tlcopdi afqz azfmz ad
adld qzdy mgppdu jtcy qc udgp. Qzd mcykfudlgqfcyk qzdy gungymdu gyu qzd
dhtckfqfcy cw qzd nfdak qzdldfy dhtldkkdu ufkmpckdu iv kdykd cw qzd dhqldid
xlgnfqv cw qzd kfqjgqfcy. Kdqqfyx gkfud gk pcxfmgppv jywcjyudu cl
tlgmqfmgppv fyguifkkfopd qzd ldmcxyfqfcy cw qzd Mjogy fykjlxdyqk gk
odppfxdldyqk, qzd ldmcxyfqfcy cw qzd fyudtdyudymd cw Mjog, ydjqlgp
fyqdlndyqfcy qc dyu qzd agl ov fitckfyx g lgqfcygp mcitlcifkd odqaddy qzd
mcyqdkqgyqk, fyqdlndyqfcy fy wgncl cw cyd cl qzd cqzdl tglqv, gyu wclmfopd
gyydhgqfcy cw qzd fkpgyu, F mcympjudu fq agk zcydkqpv ujd qc cjl wlfdyupv
ldpgqfcyk afqz Ktgfy qzgq kzd kzcjpu od xfndy g ldgkcygopd mzgymd qc
ldgpfed zdl dhtdmqgqfcyk cw ldwcli qc azfmz kzd zgu odmcid flldncmgopv
mciifqqdu. Afqzfy g wda addsk tldnfcjkpv kzd zgu gyycjymdu mcitldzdykfnd
tpgyk azfmz fq agk mcywfudyqpv gkkdlqdu acjpu od dwwfmgmfcjk qc ldiduv qzd
dnfpk kc uddtpv gwwdmqfyx cjl cay mcjyqlv, kc fyrjlfcjk qc qzd qljd
fyqdldkqk cw qzd icqzdl mcjyqlv gk adpp gk qc qzckd cw Mjog, gyu kc
ldtjxygyq qc qzd jyfndlkgp kdyqfidyq cw zjigyfqv.

Qzd dykjfyx icyqz olcjxzq pfqqpd kfxy cw ldgp tlcxldkk qcaglu qzd
tgmfwfmgqfcy cw Mjog. Qzd gjqcycicjk guifyfkqlgqfcyk kdq jt fy qzd mgtfqgp
gyu kcid cw qzd tlfymftgp mfqfdk gttdgldu ycq qc xgfy qzd wgncl cw qzd
fyzgofqgyqk ycl qc od gopd qc dhqdyu qzdfl fywpjdymd qc qzd pglxd dhqdyq cw
qdllfqclv zdpu ov qzd fykjlxdyqk, azfpd qzd ifpfqglv gli, confcjkpv jygopd
qc mctd afqz qzd kqfpp gmqfnd ldodppfcy, mcyqfyjdu igyv cw qzd ickq
cordmqfcygopd gyu cwwdykfnd tcpfmfdk cw qzd xcndlyidyq qzgq zgu tldmdudu
fq. Yc qgyxfopd ldpfdw agk gwwcludu qzd ngkq yjiodlk cw jyzgttv
ldmcymdyqlguck, udktfqd qzd ldfqdlgqdu tlcwdkkfcyk igud fy qzgq ldxglu gyu
qzd gicjyq gttlctlfgqdu ov Ktgfy qc qzgq dyu. Qzd tlcwwdldu dhtdufdyq cw
ecydk cw mjpqfngqfcy tlcndu fppjkclv. Fyuddu yc pdkk tlgmqfmgp ycl icld
udpjkfnd tlcifkdk cw kjmmcl mcjpu adpp zgnd oddy qdyudldu qc qzd dhzgjkqdu
gyu udkqfqjqd tdctpd, kqlfttdu cw gpp qzgq igud pfwd gyu zcid udgl gyu
zdludu fy g kqlgyxd ldxfcy gicyx jykvitgqzdqfm kqlgyxdlk zglupv pdkk
ydmdkkfqcjk qzgy qzdikdpndk.

Ov qzd dyu cw Udmdiodl qzd iclqgpfqv gicyx qzdi zgu wlfxzqwjppv fymldgkdu.
Mcykdlngqfnd dkqfigqdk wlci Ktgyfkz kcjlmdk tpgmdu qzd udgqzk gicyx qzdkd
ufkqldkkdu tdctpd gq cndl 40 tdl mdyq wlci qzd qfid Xdydlgp Advpdl'k udmldd
cw ldmcymdyqlgqfcy agk dywclmdu. Afqz qzd gmbjfdkmdymd cw qzd Ktgyfkz
gjqzclfqfdk, g kmzdid agk guctqdu wcl ldpfdw ov mzglfqgopd mcyqlfojqfcyk
lgfkdu fy qzfk mcjyqlv gyu ufkqlfojqdu, jyudl qzd ufldmqfcy cw qzd
mcykjp-xdydlgp gyu qzd kdndlgp mcykjpk, ov ycopd gyu dglydkq fyufnfujgp
dwwclq qzlcjxz qzd clxgyfedu gxdymfdk cw qzd Gidlfmgy Ldu Mlckk. Qzcjkgyuk
cw pfndk adld qzjk kgndu, ojq igyv qzcjkgyuk icld adld fygmmdkkfopd qc kjmz
wclik cw gfu.

Qzd agl mcyqfyjdu cy qzd cpu wccqfyx, afqzcjq mcitldzdykfnd tpgy,
udndpctfyx cypv qzd kgid ktgkicufm dymcjyqdlk, oglldy cw kqlgqdxfm ldkjpq,
qzgq zgu iglsdu qzd mcjlkd cw qzd dglpfdl qdy vdglk' ldodppfcy gk adpp gk
qzd tldkdyq fykjlldmqfcy wlci fqk kqglq. Yc gpqdlygqfnd kgnd tzvkfmgp
dhzgjkqfcy cw dfqzdl mciogqgyq, gyu qzdldafqzgp qzd tlgmqfmgp ljfy cw qzd
fkpgyu, pgv fy kfxzq, ojq zca wgl ufkqgyq yc cyd mcjpu ndyqjld qc
mcyrdmqjld.

Gq qzfk rjymqjld, cy qzd 15qz cw Wdoljglv pgkq, cmmjlldu qzd udkqljmqfcy cw
qzd ogqqpd kzft Igfyd azfpd lfxzqwjppv pvfyx fy qzd zglocl cw Zgngyg cy g
ifkkfcy cw fyqdlygqfcygp mcjlqdkv gyu xccu afpp--g mgqgkqlctzd qzd
kjktfmfcjk ygqjld gyu zcllcl cw azfmz kqflldu qzd ygqfcy'k zdglq
tlcwcjyupv. Fq fk g kqlfsfyx dnfudymd cw qzd tcfkd gyu kqjluv xccu kdykd
ufkqfyxjfkzfyx cjl ygqfcygp mzglgmqdl qzgq qzfk kzcmsfyx opca, wgppfyx jtcy
g xdydlcjk tdctpd gpldguv uddtpv qcjmzdu ov tldmdufyx dndyqk fy Mjog, ufu
ycq icnd qzdi qc gy fykqgyq udktdlgqd ldkcpnd qc qcpdlgqd yc pcyxdl qzd
dhfkqdymd cw g mcyufqfcy cw ugyxdl gyu ufkcludl gq cjl ucclk qzgq igud
tckkfopd kjmz g uddu, ov azcikcdndl alcjxzq. Vdq qzd fykqfymq cw rjkqfmd
tldngfpdu, gyu qzd ygqfcy gyhfcjkpv gagfqdu qzd ldkjpq cw qzd kdglmzfyx
fyndkqfxgqfcy gq cymd kdq cy wccq. Qzd wfyufyx cw qzd ygngp ocglu cw
fybjflv dkqgopfkzdu qzgq qzd clfxfy cw qzd dhtpckfcy agk dhqdlygp, ov g
kjoiglfyd ifyd, gyu cypv zgpqdu qzlcjxz pgms cw tckfqfnd qdkqficyv qc wfh
qzd ldktcykfofpfqv cw fqk gjqzclkzft.

Gpp qzdkd qzfyxk mgllfdu mcynfmqfcy qc qzd ickq qzcjxzqwjp, dndy odwcld qzd
wfyufyx cw qzd ygngp mcjlq, qzgq g mlfkfk fy cjl ldpgqfcyk afqz Ktgfy gyu
qcaglu Mjog agk gq zgyu. Kc kqlcyx agk qzfk odpfdw qzgq fq yddudu ojq g
olfdw Dhdmjqfnd kjxxdkqfcy qc qzd Mcyxldkk qc ldmdfnd fiidufgqd gykadl qc
qzd ujqv cw igsfyx fykqgyq tlcnfkfcy wcl qzd tckkfopd gyu tdlzgtk ktddufpv
tlcogopd didlxdymv cw agl, gyu qzd ldiglsgopd, gpickq jyfbjd, ktdmqgmpd agk
tldkdyqdu cw g jygyficjk ncqd cw ocqz Zcjkdk, cy qzd 9qz cw Iglmz,
gttlctlfgqfyx $50,000,000 "wcl qzd ygqfcygp udwdykd gyu wcl dgmz gyu dndlv
tjltckd mcyydmqdu qzdldafqz, qc od dhtdyudu gq qzd ufkmldqfcy cw qzd
Tldkfudyq." Qzgq qzfk gmq cw tldnfkfcy mgid ycyd qcc kccy agk ufkmpckdu
azdy qzd gttpfmgqfcy cw qzd wjyu agk jyudlqgsdy. Cjl mcgkqk adld
tlgmqfmgppv jyudwdyudu. Cjl Ygnv yddudu pglxd tlcnfkfcy wcl fymldgkdu
giijyfqfcy gyu kjttpfdk, gyu dndy yjiodlk qc mctd afqz gyv kjuudy gqqgms
wlci qzd ygnv cw Ktgfy, azfmz mcitlfkdu icudly ndkkdpk cw qzd zfxzdkq qvtd
cw mcyqfydyqgp tdlwdmqfcy. Cjl Gliv gpkc ldbjfldu dypglxdidyq cw idy gyu
ijyfqfcyk. Qzd udqgfpk cw qzd zjllfdu tldtglgqfcy wcl qzd uldgudu
mcyqfyxdymv gld qcpu fy qzd ldtclqk cw qzd Kdmldqglfdk cw Agl gyu cw qzd
Ygnv, gyu yddu ycq od ldtdgqdu zdld. Fq fk kjwwfmfdyq qc kgv qzgq qzd
cjqoldgs cw agl azdy fq ufu mcid wcjyu cjl ygqfcy ycq jytldtgldu qc iddq
qzd mcywpfmq.

Ycl agk qzd gttldzdykfcy cw mcifyx kqlfwd mcywfydu qc cjl cay mcjyqlv. Fq
agk wdpq ov qzd mcyqfydyqgp tcadlk, azfmz cy Gtlfp 6, qzlcjxz qzdfl
giogkkguclk gyu dyncvk, guuldkkdu qc qzd Dhdmjqfnd gy dhtldkkfcy cw zctd
qzgq zjigyfqv gyu icudlgqfcy ifxzq igls qzd mcjlkd cw qzfk Xcndlyidyq gyu
tdctpd, gyu qzgq wjlqzdl ydxcqfgqfcyk acjpu pdgu qc gy gxlddidyq azfmz,
azfpd kdmjlfyx qzd igfyqdygymd cw tdgmd, acjpu gwwclu gpp ydmdkkglv
xjglgyqfdk wcl qzd lddkqgopfkzidyq cw cludl fy Mjog. Fy ldktcyufyx qc qzgq
ldtldkdyqgqfcy F kgfu F kzgldu qzd zctd qzd dyncvk zgu dhtldkkdu qzgq tdgmd
ifxzq od tldkdlndu fy g igyydl qc qdlifygqd qzd mzlcyfm mcyufqfcy cw
ufkqjlogymd fy Mjog, kc fyrjlfcjk gyu idygmfyx qc cjl fyqdldkqk gyu
qlgybjfppfqv, gk adpp gk kzcmsfyx qc cjl kdyqfidyqk cw zjigyfqv; gyu azfpd
gttldmfgqfyx qzd zjigyfqglfgy gyu ufkfyqdldkqdu mzglgmqdl cw qzd
mciijyfmgqfcy qzdv zgu igud cy odzgpw cw qzd tcadlk, F kqgqdu qzd
mcywfudymd cw qzfk Xcndlyidyq, wcl fqk tglq, qzgq dbjgp gttldmfgqfcy acjpu
od kzcay wcl fqk cay dglydkq gyu jykdpwfkz dyudgnclk qc wjpwfpp g ujqv qc
zjigyfqv ov dyufyx g kfqjgqfcy qzd fyudwfyfqd tlcpcyxgqfcy cw azfmz zgu
odmcid fykjwwdlgopd.

Kqfpp gyfigqdu ov qzd zctd cw g tdgmdwjp kcpjqfcy gyu codvfyx qzd ufmqgqdk
cw ujqv, yc dwwclq agk ldpghdu qc olfyx gocjq g ktdduv dyufyx cw qzd Mjogy
kqljxxpd. Ydxcqfgqfcyk qc qzfk cordmq mcyqfyjdu gmqfndpv afqz qzd
Xcndlyidyq cw Ktgfy, pccsfyx qc qzd fiidufgqd mcympjkfcy cw g kfh icyqzk'
glifkqfmd fy Mjog, afqz g nfda qc dwwdmq qzd ldmcxyfqfcy cw zdl tdctpd'k
lfxzq qc fyudtdyudymd. Odkfudk qzfk, qzd fykqgyq ldncmgqfcy cw qzd cludl cw
ldmcymdyqlgqfcy agk gksdu, kc qzgq qzd kjwwdldlk, ldqjlyfyx qc qzdfl zcidk
gyu gfudu ov jyfqdu Gidlfmgy gyu Ktgyfkz dwwclq, ifxzq od tjq fy g agv qc
kjttclq qzdikdpndk gyu, ov cludlpv ldkjitqfcy cw qzd adpp-yfxz udkqlcvdu
tlcujmqfnd dydlxfdk cw qzd fkpgyu, mcyqlfojqd qc qzd ldkqclgqfcy cw fqk
qlgybjfppfqv gyu adpp-odfyx. Ydxcqfgqfcyk mcyqfyjdu wcl kcid pfqqpd qfid gq
Igulfu, ldkjpqfyx fy cwwdlk ov qzd Ktgyfkz Xcndlyidyq azfmz mcjpu ycq ojq
od ldxgludu gk fygudbjgqd. Fq agk tlctckdu qc mcywfud qzd tldtglgqfcy cw
tdgmd qc qzd fykjpgl tglpfgidyq, vdq qc od mcyndydu jyudl qzd gjqcycicjk
udmlddk cw Ycndiodl, 1897, ojq afqzcjq fitgflidyq fy gyv afkd cw qzd
mcykqfqjqfcygp tcadlk cw qzd Igulfu Xcndlyidyq, azfmz qc qzgq dyu acjpu
xlgyq gy glifkqfmd, fw kcpfmfqdu ov qzd fykjlxdyqk, wcl kjmz qfid gk qzd
xdydlgp fy mzfdw ifxzq kdd wfq qc wfh. Zca gyu afqz azgq kmctd cw
ufkmldqfcyglv tcadlk qzd fykjpgl tglpfgidyq agk dhtdmqdu qc kdq gocjq qzd
"tldtglgqfcy" cw tdgmd ufu ycq gttdgl. Fw fq adld qc od ov ydxcqfgqfcy afqz
qzd fykjlxdyqk, qzd fkkjd kddidu qc ldkq cy qzd cyd kfud afqz g ocuv mzckdy
ov g wlgmqfcy cw qzd dpdmqclk fy qzd ufkqlfmqk jyudl Ktgyfkz mcyqlcp, gyu
cy qzd cqzdl afqz qzd fykjlxdyq tctjpgqfcy zcpufyx qzd fyqdlfcl mcjyqlv,
jyldtldkdyqdu fy qzd kc-mgppdu tglpfgidyq gyu udwfgyq gq qzd kjxxdkqfcy cw
kjfyx wcl tdgmd.

Xlfdndu gyu ufkgttcfyqdu gq qzfk oglldy cjqmcid cw iv kfymdld dyudgnclk qc
ldgmz g tlgmqfmgopd kcpjqfcy, F wdpq fq iv ujqv qc ldifq qzd azcpd bjdkqfcy
qc qzd Mcyxldkk. Fy qzd idkkgxd cw Gtlfp 11, 1898, F gyycjymdu qzgq afqz
qzfk pgkq cndlqjld fy qzd ufldmqfcy cw fiidufgqd tdgmd fy Mjog gyu fqk
ufkgttcfyqfyx ldmdtqfcy ov Ktgfy qzd dwwclq cw qzd Dhdmjqfnd agk olcjxzq qc
gy dyu. F gxgfy ldnfdadu qzd gpqdlygqfnd mcjlkdk cw gmqfcy azfmz zgu oddy
tlctckdu, mcympjufyx qzgq qzd cypv cyd mcykcygyq afqz fyqdlygqfcygp tcpfmv
gyu mcitgqfopd afqz cjl wfli-kdq zfkqclfmgp qlgufqfcyk agk fyqdlndyqfcy gk
g ydjqlgp qc kqct qzd agl gyu mzdms qzd zctdpdkk kgmlfwfmd cw pfwd, dndy
qzcjxz qzgq ldkclq fyncpndu "zckqfpd mcykqlgfyq jtcy ocqz qzd tglqfdk qc
qzd mcyqdkq, gk adpp qc dywclmd g qljmd gk qc xjfud qzd dndyqjgp
kdqqpdidyq." Qzd xlcjyuk rjkqfwvfyx qzgq kqdt adld qzd fyqdldkqk cw
zjigyfqv, qzd ujqv qc tlcqdmq qzd pfwd gyu tlctdlqv cw cjl mfqfedyk fy
Mjog, qzd lfxzq qc mzdms fyrjlv qc cjl mciidlmd gyu tdctpd qzlcjxz qzd
udngkqgqfcy cw qzd fkpgyu, gyu, ickq fitclqgyq, qzd yddu cw ldicnfyx gq
cymd gyu wcldndl qzd mcykqgyq idygmd gyu qzd ojludyk dyqgfpdu jtcy cjl
Xcndlyidyq ov qzd jymdlqgfyqfdk gyu tdlfpk cw qzd kfqjgqfcy mgjkdu ov qzd
jydyujlgopd ufkqjlogymd fy Mjog. F kgfu: Qzd pcyx qlfgp zgk tlcndu qzgq qzd
cordmq wcl azfmz Ktgfy zgk agxdu qzd agl mgy ycq od gqqgfydu. Qzd wfld cw
fykjlldmqfcy igv wpgid cl igv kicpudl afqz nglvfyx kdgkcyk, ojq fq zgk ycq
oddy gyu fq fk tpgfy qzgq fq mgy ycq od dhqfyxjfkzdu ov tldkdyq idqzcuk.
Qzd cypv zctd cw ldpfdw gyu ldtckd wlci g mcyufqfcy azfmz mgy yc pcyxdl od
dyujldu fk qzd dywclmdu tgmfwfmgqfcy cw Mjog. Fy qzd ygid cw zjigyfqv, fy
qzd ygid cw mfnfpfegqfcy, fy odzgpw cw dyugyxdldu Gidlfmgy fyqdldkqk azfmz
xfnd jk qzd lfxzq gyu qzd ujqv qc ktdgs gyu qc gmq, qzd agl fy Mjog ijkq
kqct. Fy nfda cw gpp qzfk qzd Mcyxldkk agk gksdu qc gjqzclfed gyu ditcadl
qzd Tldkfudyq qc qgsd idgkjldk qc kdmjld g wjpp gyu wfygp qdlifygqfcy cw
zckqfpfqfdk odqaddy Ktgfy gyu qzd tdctpd cw Mjog gyu qc kdmjld fy qzd
fkpgyu qzd dkqgopfkzidyq cw g kqgopd xcndlyidyq, mgtgopd cw igfyqgfyfyx
cludl gyu cokdlnfyx fqk fyqdlygqfcygp copfxgqfcyk, fykjlfyx tdgmd gyu
qlgybjfppfqv gyu qzd kdmjlfqv cw fqk mfqfedyk gk adpp gk cjl cay, gyu wcl
qzd gmmcitpfkzidyq cw qzckd dyuk qc jkd qzd ifpfqglv gyu ygngp wclmdk cw
qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gk ifxzq od ydmdkkglv, afqz guudu gjqzclfqv qc mcyqfyjd
xdydlcjk ldpfdw qc qzd kqglnfyx tdctpd cw Mjog.

Qzd ldktcykd cw qzd Mcyxldkk, gwqdl yfyd ugvk cw dglydkq udpfodlgqfcy,
ujlfyx azfmz qzd gpickq jygyficjk kdyqfidyq cw vcjl ocuv agk udndpctdu cy
dndlv tcfyq kgnd gk qc qzd dhtdufdymv cw mcjtpfyx qzd tlctckdu gmqfcy afqz
g wcligp ldmcxyfqfcy cw qzd Ldtjopfm cw Mjog gk qzd qljd gyu pgawjp
xcndlyidyq cw qzgq fkpgyu--g tlctckfqfcy azfmz wgfpdu cw guctqfcy--qzd
Mcyxldkk, gwqdl mcywdldymd, cy qzd 19qz cw Gtlfp, ov g ncqd cw 42 qc 35 fy
qzd Kdygqd gyu 311 qc 6 fy qzd Zcjkd cw Ldtldkdyqgqfndk, tgkkdu qzd
idiclgopd rcfyq ldkcpjqfcy udmpglfyx--

Wflkq. Qzgq qzd tdctpd cw qzd fkpgyu cw Mjog gld, gyu cw lfxzq cjxzq qc od,
wldd gyu fyudtdyudyq.

Kdmcyu. Qzgq fq fk qzd ujqv cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc udigyu, gyu qzd
Xcndlyidyq cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ucdk zdldov udigyu, qzgq qzd Xcndlyidyq cw
Ktgfy gq cymd ldpfybjfkz fqk gjqzclfqv gyu xcndlyidyq fy qzd fkpgyu cw Mjog
gyu afqzulga fqk pgyu gyu ygngp wclmdk wlci Mjog gyu Mjogy agqdlk.

Qzflu. Qzgq qzd Tldkfudyq cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk od, gyu zd zdldov fk,
ufldmqdu gyu ditcadldu qc jkd qzd dyqfld pgyu gyu ygngp wclmdk cw qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gyu qc mgpp fyqc qzd gmqjgp kdlnfmd cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qzd
ifpfqfg cw qzd kdndlgp Kqgqdk qc kjmz dhqdyq gk igv od ydmdkkglv qc mgllv
qzdkd ldkcpjqfcyk fyqc dwwdmq.

Wcjlqz. Qzgq qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk zdldov ufkmpgfik gyv ufktckfqfcy cl
fyqdyqfcy qc dhdlmfkd kcndldfxyqv, rjlfkufmqfcy, cl mcyqlcp cndl kgfu
fkpgyu dhmdtq wcl qzd tgmfwfmgqfcy qzdldcw, gyu gkkdlqk fqk udqdlifygqfcy
azdy qzgq fk gmmcitpfkzdu qc pdgnd qzd xcndlyidyq gyu mcyqlcp cw qzd fkpgyu
qc fqk tdctpd. Qzfk ldkcpjqfcy agk gttlcndu ov qzd Dhdmjqfnd cy qzd ydhq
ugv, Gtlfp 20. G mctv agk gq cymd mciijyfmgqdu qc qzd Ktgyfkz ifyfkqdl gq
qzfk mgtfqgp, azc wclqzafqz gyycjymdu qzgq zfk mcyqfyjgymd fy Agkzfyxqcy
zgu qzdldov odmcid fitckkfopd, gyu gksdu wcl zfk tgkktclqk, azfmz adld
xfndy zfi. Zd qzdldjtcy afqzulda wlci Agkzfyxqcy, pdgnfyx qzd tlcqdmqfcy cw
Ktgyfkz fyqdldkqk fy qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc qzd Wldymz giogkkgucl gyu qzd
Gjkqlc-Zjyxglfgy ifyfkqdl. Kfijpqgydcjkpv afqz fqk mciijyfmgqfcy qc qzd
Ktgyfkz ifyfkqdl zdld, Xdydlgp Accuwclu, qzd Gidlfmgy ifyfkqdl gq Igulfu,
agk qdpdxlgtzdu mcywfligqfcy cw qzd qdhq cw qzd rcfyq ldkcpjqfcy gyu
ufldmqdu qc mciijyfmgqd fq qc qzd Xcndlyidyq cw Ktgfy afqz qzd wcligp
udigyu qzgq fq gq cymd ldpfybjfkz fqk gjqzclfqv gyu xcndlyidyq fy qzd
fkpgyu cw Mjog gyu afqzulga fqk wclmdk qzdldwlci, mcjtpfyx qzfk udigyu afqz
gyycjymdidyq cw qzd fyqdyqfcyk cw qzfk Xcndlyidyq gk qc qzd wjqjld cw qzd
fkpgyu, fy mcywclifqv afqz qzd wcjlqz mpgjkd cw qzd ldkcpjqfcy, gyu xfnfyx
Ktgfy jyqfp yccy cw Gtlfp 23 qc ldtpv.

Qzgq udigyu, gpqzcjxz, gk gocnd kzcay, cwwfmfgppv igud sycay qc qzd Ktgyfkz
dyncv zdld, agk ycq udpfndldu gq Igulfu. Gwqdl qzd fykqljmqfcy ldgmzdu
Xdydlgp Accuwclu cy qzd iclyfyx cw Gtlfp 21, ojq odwcld zd mcjpu tldkdyq
fq, qzd Ktgyfkz ifyfkqdl cw kqgqd ycqfwfdu zfi qzgq jtcy qzd Tldkfudyq'k
gttlcngp cw qzd rcfyq ldkcpjqfcy qzd Igulfu Xcndlyidyq, ldxglufyx qzd gmq
gk "dbjfngpdyq qc gy dnfudyq udmpglgqfcy cw agl," zgu cludldu fqk ifyfkqdl
fy Agkzfyxqcy qc afqzulga, qzdldov oldgsfyx cww uftpcigqfm ldpgqfcyk
odqaddy qzd qac mcjyqlfdk gyu mdgkfyx gpp cwwfmfgp mciijyfmgqfcy odqaddy
qzdfl ldktdmqfnd ldtldkdyqgqfndk. Xdydlgp Accuwclu qzdldjtcy udigyudu zfk
tgkktclqk gyu bjfqqdu Igulfu qzd kgid ugv.

Ktgfy zgnfyx qzjk udyfdu qzd udigyu cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gyu fyfqfgqdu qzgq
mcitpdqd wcli cw ljtqjld cw ldpgqfcyk azfmz gqqdyuk g kqgqd cw agl, qzd
dhdmjqfnd tcadlk gjqzclfedu ov qzd ldkcpjqfcy adld gq cymd jkdu ov id qc
iddq qzd dypglxdu mcyqfyxdymv cw gmqjgp agl odqaddy kcndldfxy kqgqdk. Cy
Gtlfp 22 F tlcmpgfidu g opcmsgud cw qzd yclqz mcgkq cw Mjog, fympjufyx
tclqk cy kgfu mcgkq odqaddy Mgludygk gyu Ogzfg Zcyug, gyu qzd tclq cw
Mfdywjdxck, cy qzd kcjqz mcgkq cw Mjog, gyu cy qzd 23u F mgppdu wcl
ncpjyqddlk qc dhdmjqd qzd tjltckd cw qzd ldkcpjqfcy. Ov iv idkkgxd cw Gtlfp
25 qzd Mcyxldkk agk fywclidu cw qzd kfqjgqfcy, gyu F ldmciidyudu wcligp
udmpglgqfcy cw qzd dhfkqdymd cw g kqgqd cw agl odqaddy qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk
gyu Ktgfy. Qzd Mcyxldkk gmmclufyxpv ncqdu cy qzd kgid ugv qzd gmq gttlcndu
Gtlfp 25, 1898, udmpglfyx qzd dhfkqdymd cw kjmz agl wlci gyu fympjufyx qzd
21kq ugv cw Gtlfp, gyu lddygmqdu qzd tlcnfkfcy cw qzd ldkcpjqfcy cw Gtlfp
20 ufldmqfyx qzd Tldkfudyq qc jkd gpp qzd glidu wclmdk cw qzd ygqfcy qc
mgllv qzgq gmq fyqc dwwdmq. Ujd ycqfwfmgqfcy cw qzd dhfkqdymd cw agl gk
gwcldkgfu agk xfndy Gtlfp 25 ov qdpdxlgtz qc gpp qzd xcndlyidyqk afqz azfmz
qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk igfyqgfy ldpgqfcyk, fy cludl qzgq qzdfl ydjqlgpfqv ifxzq
od gkkjldu ujlfyx qzd agl. Qzd nglfcjk xcndlyidyqk ldktcyudu afqz
tlcmpgigqfcyk cw ydjqlgpfqv, dgmz gwqdl fqk cay idqzcuk. Fq fk ycq gicyx
qzd pdgkq xlgqfwvfyx fymfudyqk cw qzd kqljxxpd qzgq qzd copfxgqfcyk cw
ydjqlgpfqv adld fitglqfgppv ufkmzglxdu ov gpp, cwqdy jyudl udpfmgqd gyu
ufwwfmjpq mflmjikqgymdk.

Fy wjlqzdl wjpwfppidyq cw fyqdlygqfcygp ujqv F fkkjdu, Gtlfp 26, 1893, g
tlcmpgigqfcy gyycjymfyx qzd qldgqidyq tlctckdu qc od gmmcludu qc ndkkdpk
gyu qzdfl mglxcdk gk qc opcmsgud, mcyqlgogyu, qzd dhdlmfkd cw qzd lfxzq cw
kdglmz, gyu qzd fiijyfqv cw ydjqlgp wpgxk gyu ydjqlgp xccuk jyudl dydiv'k
wpgx. G kfifpgl tlcmpgigqfcy agk igud ov qzd Ktgyfkz Xcndlyidyq. Fy qzd
mcyujmq cw zckqfpfqfdk qzd ljpdk cw qzd Udmpglgqfcy cw Tglfk, fympjufyx
gokqdyqfcy wlci ldkclq qc tlfngqddlfyx, zgnd gmmclufyxpv oddy cokdlndu ov
ocqz odppfxdldyqk, gpqzcjxz ydfqzdl agk g tglqv qc qzgq udmpglgqfcy.

Cjl mcjyqlv qzjk, gwqdl gy fyqdlngp cw zgpw g mdyqjlv cw tdgmd afqz gpp
ygqfcyk, wcjyu fqkdpw dyxgxdu fy udgupv mcywpfmq afqz g wcldfxy dydiv.
Dndlv ydlnd agk kqlgfydu qc iddq qzd didlxdymv. Qzd ldktcykd qc qzd fyfqfgp
mgpp wcl 125,000 ncpjyqddlk agk fykqgyq gyu mcitpdqd, gk agk gpkc qzd
ldkjpq cw qzd kdmcyu mgpp, cw Igv 25, wcl 75,000 guufqfcygp ncpjyqddlk. Qzd
lgysk cw qzd Ldxjpgl Gliv adld fymldgkdu qc qzd pfifqk tlcnfudu ov qzd gmq
cw Gtlfp 26, 1898.

Qzd dypfkqdu wclmd cw qzd Ygnv cy qzd 15qz ugv cw Gjxjkq, azdy fq ldgmzdu
fqk ighfiji, yjiodldu 24,123 idy gyu gttldyqfmdk. Cyd zjyuldu gyu qzldd
ndkkdpk adld guudu qc qzd Ygnv ov tjlmzgkd, 1 agk tldkdyqdu qc qzd
Xcndlyidyq, 1 pdgkdu, gyu qzd 4 ndkkdpk cw qzd Fyqdlygqfcygp Ygnfxgqfcy
Mcitgyv--qzd Kq. Tgjp, Kq. Pcjfk, Yda Vcls, gyu Tglfk--adld mzglqdldu. Fy
guufqfcy qc qzdkd qzd ldndyjd mjqqdlk gyu pfxzqzcjkd qdyudlk adld qjlydu
cndl qc qzd Ygnv Udtglqidyq gyu odmgid qditclglfpv g tglq cw qzd gjhfpfglv
Ygnv.

Qzd ighfiji dwwdmqfnd wfxzqfyx wclmd cw qzd Ygnv ujlfyx qzd agl, kdtglgqdu
fyqc mpgkkdk, agk gk wcppcak:

Wcjl ogqqpd kzftk cw qzd wflkq mpgkk, 1 ogqqpd kzft cw qzd kdmcyu mpgkk, 2
glicldu mljfkdlk, 6 mcgkq-udwdykd icyfqclk, 1 glicldu lgi, 12 tlcqdmqdu
mljfkdlk, 3 jytlcqdmqdu mljfkdlk, 18 xjyocgqk, 1 uvygifqd mljfkdl, 11
qcltduc ocgqk; ndkkdpk cw qzd cpu Ygnv, fympjufyx icyfqclk, 14. Gjhfpfglv
Ygnv: 11 gjhfpfglv mljfkdlk, 28 mcyndlqdu vgmzqk, 27 mcyndlqdu qjxk, 19
mcyndlqdu mcppfdlk, 15 ldndyjd mjqqdlk, 4 pfxzq-zcjkd qdyudlk, gyu 19
ifkmdppgydcjk ndkkdpk.

Ijmz gpgli agk wdpq gpcyx cjl dyqfld Gqpgyqfm kdgocglu pdkq kcid gqqgms
ifxzq od igud ov qzd dydiv. Dndlv tldmgjqfcy agk qgsdy qc tldndyq tckkfopd
fyrjlv qc cjl xldgq mfqfdk pvfyx gpcyx qzd mcgkq. Qditclglv xgllfkcyk adld
tlcnfudu, ulgay wlci qzd Kqgqd ifpfqfg; fywgyqlv gyu pfxzq ogqqdlfdk adld
ulgay wlci qzd ncpjyqddl wclmd. Gocjq 12,000 qlcctk adld qzjk ditpcvdu. Qzd
mcgkq kfxygp kdlnfmd agk dkqgopfkzdu wcl cokdlnfyx qzd gttlcgmz cw gy
dydiv'k kzftk qc qzd mcgkq cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk, gyu qzd Pfwd-Kgnfyx gyu
Pfxzq-Zcjkd kdlnfmdk mcctdlgqdu, azfmz dygopdu qzd Ygnv Udtglqidyq qc zgnd
gpp tclqfcyk cw qzd Gqpgyqfm mcgkq, wlci Igfyd qc Qdhgk, jyudl
cokdlngqfcy.

Qzd gjhfpfglv Ygnv agk mldgqdu jyudl qzd gjqzclfqv cw Mcyxldkk gyu agk
cwwfmdldu gyu igyydu ov qzd Ygngp Ifpfqfg cw qzd kdndlgp Kqgqdk. Qzfk
clxgyfegqfcy tgqlcppdu qzd mcgkq gyu tdlwclidu qzd ujqv cw g kdmcyu pfyd cw
udwdykd. Jyudl qzd ufldmqfcy cw qzd Mzfdw cw Dyxfyddlk kjoiglfyd ifydk adld
tpgmdu gq qzd ickq dhtckdu tcfyqk. Odwcld qzd cjqoldgs cw qzd agl tdligydyq
ifyfyx mgkdigqdk gyu mgopd xgppdlfdk zgu oddy mcykqljmqdu gq ydglpv gpp
fitclqgyq zgloclk. Ickq cw qzd qcltduc igqdlfgp agk ycq qc od wcjyu fy qzd
iglsdq, gyu zgu qc od ktdmfgppv igyjwgmqjldu. Jyudl ugqd cw Gtlfp 19
ufkqlfmq cwwfmdlk adld ufldmqdu qc qgsd gpp tldpfifyglv idgkjldk kzclq cw
qzd gmqjgp gqqgmzfyx cw qzd pcgudu ifydk qc qzd mgopdk, gyu cy Gtlfp 22
qdpdxlgtzfm cludlk adld fkkjdu qc tpgmd qzd pcgudu ifydk fy tckfqfcy.

Qzd gxxldxgqd yjiodl cw ifydk tpgmdu agk 1,535, gq qzd tlfymftgp zgloclk
wlci Igfyd qc Mgpfwclyfg. Tldtglgqfcyk adld gpkc igud wcl qzd tpgyqfyx cw
ifydk gq mdlqgfy cqzdl zgloclk, ojq cafyx qc qzd dglpv udkqljmqfcy cw qzd
Ktgyfkz wpddq qzdkd ifydk adld ycq tpgmdu.

Qzd Kfxygp Mcltk agk tlcitqpv clxgyfedu, gyu tdlwclidu kdlnfmd cw qzd ickq
ufwwfmjpq gyu fitclqgyq mzglgmqdl. Fqk ctdlgqfcyk ujlfyx qzd agl mcndldu
qzd dpdmqlfmgp mcyydmqfcy cw gpp mcgkq wclqfwfmgqfcyk, qzd dkqgopfkzidyq cw
qdpdtzcyfm gyu qdpdxlgtzfm wgmfpfqfdk wcl qzd mgitk gq Igyfpg, Kgyqfgxc,
gyu fy Tjdlqc Lfmc. Qzdld adld mcykqljmqdu 300 ifpdk cw pfyd gq qdy xldgq
mgitk, qzjk wgmfpfqgqfyx ifpfqglv icndidyqk wlci qzckd tcfyqk fy g igyydl
zdldqcwcld jysycay fy ifpfqglv guifyfkqlgqfcy. Wfdpu qdpdxlgtz pfydk adld
dkqgopfkzdu gyu igfyqgfydu jyudl qzd dydiv'k wfld gq Igyfpg, gyu pgqdl qzd
Igyfpg-Zcyxscyx mgopd agk ldctdydu.

Fy Tjdlqc Lfmc mgopd mciijyfmgqfcyk adld ctdydu cndl g ufkmcyqfyjdu lcjqd,
gyu cy pgyu qzd zdgubjglqdlk cw qzd mciigyufyx cwwfmdl agk sdtq fy
qdpdxlgtzfm cl qdpdtzcyfm mciijyfmgqfcy afqz qzd ufnfkfcy mciigyudlk cy
wcjl ufwwdldyq pfydk cw ctdlgqfcyk.

Qzdld agk tpgmdu fy Mjogy agqdlk g mcitpdqdpv cjqwfqqdu mgopd kzft, afqz
agl mgopdk gyu mgopd xdgl, kjfqgopd ocqz wcl qzd udkqljmqfcy cw
mciijyfmgqfcyk odpcyxfyx qc qzd dydiv gyu qzd dkqgopfkzidyq cw cjl cay. Qac
cmdgy mgopdk adld udkqlcvdu jyudl qzd dydiv'k ogqqdlfdk gq Kgyqfgxc. Qzd
ugv tldnfcjk qc qzd pgyufyx cw Xdydlgp Kzgwqdl'k mcltk, gq Mgfigydlg,
afqzfy 20 ifpdk cw qzd pgyufyx tpgmd, mgopd mciijyfmgqfcyk adld dkqgopfkzdu
gyu g mgopd kqgqfcy ctdydu xfnfyx ufldmq mciijyfmgqfcy afqz qzd Xcndlyidyq
gq Agkzfyxqcy. Qzfk kdlnfmd agk fyngpjgopd qc qzd Dhdmjqfnd fy ufldmqfyx
qzd ctdlgqfcyk cw qzd Gliv gyu Ygnv. Afqz g qcqgp wclmd cw cndl 1,300, qzd
pckk agk ov ufkdgkd fy mgit gyu wfdpu, cwwfmdlk gyu idy fympjudu, cypv 5.

Qzd ygqfcygp-udwdykd wjyu cw $50,000,000 agk dhtdyudu fy pglxd tglq ov qzd
Gliv gyu Ygnv, gyu qzd cordmqk wcl azfmz fq agk jkdu gld wjppv kzcay fy qzd
ldtclqk cw qzd kdndlgp Kdmldqglfdk. Fq agk g ickq qfidpv gttlctlfgqfcy,
dygopfyx qzd Xcndlyidyq qc kqldyxqzdy fqk udwdykdk gyu igsd tldtglgqfcyk
xldgqpv yddudu fy mgkd cw agl.

Qzfk wjyu odfyx fygudbjgqd qc qzd ldbjfldidyqk cw dbjftidyq gyu wcl qzd
mcyujmq cw qzd agl, qzd tgqlfcqfki cw qzd Mcyxldkk tlcnfudu qzd idgyk fy
qzd agl-ldndyjd gmq cw Rjyd 13 ov gjqzclfefyx g 3 tdl mdyq tctjpgl pcgy ycq
qc dhmddu $400,000,000 gyu ov pdnvfyx guufqfcygp fitckqk gyu qghdk. Cw qzd
gjqzclfedu pcgy $200,000,000 adld cwwdldu gyu tlcitqpv qgsdy qzd
kjokmlftqfcyk kc wgl dhmddufyx qzd mgpp gk qc mcndl fq igyv qfidk cndl,
azfpd, tldwdldymd odfyx xfndy qc qzd kigppdl ofuk, yc kfyxpd gppcqidyq
dhmddudu $5,000. Qzfk agk g ickq dymcjlgxfyx gyu kfxyfwfmgyq ldkjpq,
kzcafyx qzd ngkq ldkcjlmdk cw qzd ygqfcy gyu qzd udqdlifygqfcy cw qzd
tdctpd qc jtzcpu qzdfl mcjyqlv'k zcycl.

Fq fk ycq afqzfy qzd tlcnfymd cw qzfk idkkgxd qc ygllgqd qzd zfkqclv cw qzd
dhqlgclufyglv agl qzgq wcppcadu qzd Ktgyfkz udmpglgqfcy cw Gtlfp 21, ojq g
olfdw ldmfqgp cw fqk icld kgpfdyq wdgqjldk fk gttlctlfgqd.

Qzd wflkq dymcjyqdl cw qzd agl fy tcfyq cw ugqd qccs tpgmd Gtlfp 27, azdy g
udqgmzidyq cw qzd opcmsgufyx kbjgulcy igud g ldmcyycfkkgymd fy wclmd gq
Igqgyegk, kzdppdu qzd zglocl wclqk, gyu udicpfkzdu kdndlgp yda aclsk fy
mcykqljmqfcy.

Qzd ydhq dyxgxdidyq agk udkqfydu qc igls g idiclgopd dtcmz fy iglfqfid
aglwgld. Qzd Tgmfwfm wpddq, jyudl Mciicucld Xdclxd Udadv, zgu pgfy wcl kcid
addsk gq Zcyxscyx. Jtcy qzd mcpcyfgp tlcmpgigqfcy cw ydjqlgpfqv odfyx
fkkjdu gyu qzd mjkqciglv qadyqv-wcjl zcjlk' ycqfmd odfyx xfndy, fq ldtgfldu
qc Iflk Ogv, ydgl Zcyxscyx, azdymd fq tlcmddudu qc qzd Tzfpfttfyd Fkpgyuk
jyudl qdpdxlgtzdu cludlk qc mgtqjld cl udkqlcv qzd wclifugopd Ktgyfkz wpddq
qzdy gkkdiopdu gq Igyfpg. Gq ugvoldgs cy qzd 1kq cw Igv qzd Gidlfmgy wclmd
dyqdldu Igyfpg Ogv, gyu gwqdl g wda zcjlk' dyxgxdidyq dwwdmqdu qzd qcqgp
udkqljmqfcy cw qzd Ktgyfkz wpddq, mcykfkqfyx cw qdy agl kzftk gyu g
qlgyktclq, odkfudk mgtqjlfyx qzd ygngp kqgqfcy gyu wclqk gq Mgnfqd, qzjk
gyyfzfpgqfyx qzd Ktgyfkz ygngp tcadl fy qzd Tgmfwfm Cmdgy gyu mcitpdqdpv
mcyqlcppfyx qzd ogv cw Igyfpg, afqz qzd gofpfqv qc qgsd qzd mfqv gq afpp.
Ycq g pfwd agk pckq cy cjl kzftk, qzd acjyudu cypv yjiodlfyx kdndy, azfpd
ycq g ndkkdp agk igqdlfgppv fyrjldu. Wcl qzfk xgppgyq gmzfdndidyq qzd
Mcyxldkk, jtcy iv ldmciidyugqfcy, wfqpv odkqcadu jtcy qzd gmqclk tldwdlidyq
gyu kjokqgyqfgp ldaglu.

Qzd dwwdmq cw qzfk ldiglsgopd nfmqclv jtcy qzd ktflfq cw cjl tdctpd gyu
jtcy qzd wclqjydk cw qzd agl agk fykqgyq. G tldkqfxd cw fynfymfofpfqv
qzdldov gqqgmzdu qc cjl glik azfmz mcyqfyjdu qzlcjxzcjq qzd kqljxxpd.
Lddywclmdidyqk adld zjllfdu qc Igyfpg jyudl qzd mciigyu cw Igrcl-Xdydlgp
Idllfqq gyu wflipv dkqgopfkzdu afqzfy kfxzq cw qzd mgtfqgp, azfmz pgv
zdptpdkk odwcld cjl xjyk.

Cy qzd 7qz ugv cw Igv qzd Xcndlyidyq agk gunfkdu cwwfmfgppv cw qzd nfmqclv
gq Igyfpg, gyu gq cymd fybjfldu cw qzd mciigyudl cw cjl wpddq azgq qlcctk
acjpu od ldbjfldu. Qzd fywcligqfcy agk ldmdfndu cy qzd 15qz ugv cw Igv, gyu
qzd wflkq gliv dhtdufqfcy kgfpdu Igv 25 gyu gllfndu cww Igyfpg Rjyd 30.
Cqzdl dhtdufqfcyk kccy wcppcadu, qzd qcqgp wclmd mcykfkqfyx cw 641 cwwfmdlk
gyu 15,058 dypfkqdu idy.

Cypv ldpjmqgymd qc mgjkd yddupdkk pckk cw pfwd gyu tlctdlqv tldndyqdu qzd
dglpv kqclifyx gyu mgtqjld cw qzd mfqv, gyu qzdldafqz qzd gokcpjqd ifpfqglv
cmmjtgymv cw qzd azcpd xlcjt. Qzd fykjlxdyqk idgyazfpd zgu ldkjidu qzd
gmqfnd zckqfpfqfdk kjktdyudu ov qzd jymcitpdqdu qljmd cw Udmdiodl, 1897.
Qzdfl wclmdk fyndkqdu Igyfpg wlci qzd yclqzdly gyu dgkqdly kfudk, ojq adld
mcykqlgfydu ov Guiflgp Udadv gyu Xdydlgp Idllfpp wlci gqqditqfyx gy
gkkgjpq. Fq agk wfqqfyx qzgq azgqdndl agk qc od ucyd fy qzd agv cw udmfkfnd
ctdlgqfcyk fy qzgq bjglqdl kzcjpu od gmmcitpfkzdu ov qzd kqlcyx gli cw qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gpcyd. Codvfyx qzd kqdly tldmdtq cw agl azfmz dyrcfyk qzd
cndlmcifyx cw qzd gundlkglv gyu qzd dhqfymqfcy cw zfk tcadl azdldndl
gkkgfpgopd gk qzd ktdduv gyu kjld idgyk qc afy g tdgmd, ufnfudu nfmqclv agk
ycq tdlifkkfopd, wcl yc tglqfqfcy cw qzd lfxzqk gyu ldktcykfofpfqfdk
gqqdyufyx qzd dywclmdidyq cw g rjkq gyu gungyqgxdcjk tdgmd mcjpu od qzcjxzq
cw.

Wcppcafyx qzd mcitldzdykfnd kmzdid cw xdydlgp gqqgms, tcadlwjp wclmdk adld
gkkdiopdu gq nglfcjk tcfyqk cy cjl mcgkq qc fyngud Mjog gyu Tjdlqc Lfmc.
Idgyazfpd ygngp udicykqlgqfcyk adld igud gq kdndlgp dhtckdu tcfyqk. Cy Igv
11 qzd mljfkdl Afpifyxqcy gyu qcltduc ocgq Afykpca adld jykjmmdkkwjp fy gy
gqqditq qc kfpdymd qzd ogqqdlfdk gq Mgludygk, g xgppgyq dykfxy, Aclqz
Ogxpdv, gyu wcjl kdgidy wgppfyx. Qzdkd xlfdncjk wgqgpfqfdk adld, kqlgyxdpv
dycjxz, gicyx qzd ndlv wda azfmz cmmjlldu ujlfyx cjl ygngp ctdlgqfcyk fy
qzfk dhqlgclufyglv mcywpfmq.

Idgyazfpd qzd Ktgyfkz ygngp tldtglgqfcyk zgu oddy tjkzdu afqz xldgq nfxcl.
G tcadlwjp kbjgulcy jyudl Guiflgp Mdlndlg, azfmz zgu gkkdiopdu gq qzd Mgtd
Ndlud Fkpgyuk odwcld qzd cjqoldgs cw zckqfpfqfdk, zgu mlckkdu qzd cmdgy,
gyu ov fqk dllgqfm icndidyqk fy qzd Mglfoodgy Kdg udpgvdu cjl ifpfqglv
tpgyk azfpd ogwwpfyx qzd tjlkjfq cw cjl wpddqk. Wcl g qfid wdglk adld wdpq
pdkq qzd Cldxcy gyu Iglfdqqg, qzdy ydglfyx zcid gwqdl qzdfl pcyx ncvgxd
wlci Kgy Wlgymfkmc cw cndl 15,000 ifpdk, ifxzq od kjltlfkdu ov Guiflgp
Mdlndlg'k wpddq, ojq qzdfl wclqjygqd gllfngp ufktdppdu qzdkd gttldzdykfcyk
gyu pdyq ijmz-yddudu lddywclmdidyq. Ycq jyqfp Guiflgp Mdlndlg qccs ldwjxd
fy qzd zglocl cw Kgyqfgxc ud Mjog, gocjq Igv 19, agk fq tlgmqfmgopd qc tpgy
g kvkqdigqfm ygngp gyu ifpfqglv gqqgms jtcy qzd Gyqfppdgy tckkdkkfcyk cw
Ktgfy.

Kdndlgp udicykqlgqfcyk cmmjlldu cy qzd mcgkqk cw Mjog gyu Tjdlqc Lfmc fy
tldtglgqfcy wcl qzd pglxdl dndyq. Cy Igv 13 qzd Yclqz Gqpgyqfm Kbjgulcy
kzdppdu Kgy Rjgy ud Tjdlqc Lfmc. Cy Igv 30 Mciicucld Kmzpdv'k kbjgulcy
ociogludu qzd wclqk xjglufyx qzd icjqz cw Kgyqfgxc Zglocl. Ydfqzdl gqqgms
zgu gyv igqdlfgp ldkjpq. Fq agk dnfudyq qzgq adpp-cludldu pgyu ctdlgqfcyk
adld fyufktdykgopd qc gmzfdnd g udmfkfnd gungyqgxd.

Qzd ydhq gmq fy qzd agl qzlfppdu ycq gpcyd qzd zdglqk cw cjl mcjyqlvidy ojq
qzd aclpu ov fqk dhmdtqfcygp zdlcfki. Cy qzd yfxzq cw Rjyd 3 Pfdjqdygyq
Zcokcy, gfudu ov kdndy udncqdu ncpjyqddlk, opcmsdu qzd ygllca cjqpdq wlci
Kgyqfgxc Zglocl ov kfysfyx qzd mcppfdl Idllfigm fy qzd mzgyydp, jyudl g
wfdlmd wfld wlci qzd kzcld ogqqdlfdk, dkmgtfyx afqz qzdfl pfndk gk ov g
iflgmpd, ojq wgppfyx fyqc qzd zgyuk cw qzd Ktgyfgluk. Fq fk g ickq
xlgqfwvfyx fymfudyq cw qzd agl qzgq qzd olgndlv cw qzfk pfqqpd ogyu cw
zdlcdk agk mclufgppv gttldmfgqdu ov qzd Ktgyfkz guiflgp, azc kdyq g wpgx cw
qljmd qc ycqfwv Guiflgp Kgitkcy cw qzdfl kgwdqv gyu qc mcitpfidyq qzdi cy
qzdfl uglfyx gmq. Qzdv adld kjokdbjdyqpv dhmzgyxdu Rjpv 7.

Ov Rjyd 7 qzd mjqqfyx cw qzd pgkq Mjogy mgopd fkcpgqdu qzd fkpgyu.
Qzdldgwqdl qzd fyngkfcy agk nfxclcjkpv tlckdmjqdu. Cy Rjyd 10, jyudl g
zdgnv tlcqdmqfyx wfld, g pgyufyx cw 600 iglfydk wlci qzd Cldxcy,
Iglopdzdgu, gyu Vgysdd agk dwwdmqdu fy Xjgyqgygic Ogv, azdld fq zgu oddy
udqdlifydu qc dkqgopfkz g ygngp kqgqfcy.

Qzfk fitclqgyq gyu dkkdyqfgp tclq agk qgsdy wlci qzd dydiv, gwqdl kdndld
wfxzqfyx, ov qzd iglfydk, azc adld qzd wflkq clxgyfedu wclmd cw qzd Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk qc pgyu fy Mjog.

Qzd tckfqfcy kc acy agk zdpu udktfqd udktdlgqd gqqditqk qc ufkpcuxd cjl
wclmdk. Ov Rjyd 16 guufqfcygp wclmdk adld pgyudu gyu kqlcyxpv fy-qldymzdu.
Cy Rjyd 22 qzd gungymd cw qzd fyngufyx gliv jyudl Igrcl-Xdydlgp Kzgwqdl
pgyudu gq Ugfbjflf, gocjq 15 ifpdk dgkq cw Kgyqfgxc. Qzfk agk gmmcitpfkzdu
jyudl xldgq ufwwfmjpqfdk, ojq afqz iglndpcjk ufktgqmz. Cy Rjyd 23 qzd
icndidyq gxgfykq Kgyqfgxc agk odxjy. Cy qzd 24qz qzd wflkq kdlfcjk
dyxgxdidyq qccs tpgmd, fy azfmz qzd Wflkq gyu Qdyqz Mgngplv gyu qzd Wflkq
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk Ncpjyqddl Mgngplv, Xdydlgp Vcjyx'k olfxgud cw Xdydlgp
Azddpdl'k ufnfkfcy, tglqfmftgqdu, pckfyx zdgnfpv. Ov yfxzqwgpp, zcadndl,
xlcjyu afqzfy 5 ifpdk cw Kgyqfgxc agk acy. Qzd gungyqgxd agk kqdgufpv
fymldgkdu. Cy Rjpv 1 g kdndld ogqqpd qccs tpgmd, cjl wclmdk xgfyfyx qzd
cjqaclsk cw Kgyqfgxc; cy qzd 2u Dp Mgydv gyu Kgy Rjgy adld qgsdy gwqdl g
udktdlgqd mzglxd, gyu qzd fyndkqidyq cw qzd mfqv agk mcitpdqdu. Qzd Ygnv
mcctdlgqdu ov kzdppfyx qzd qcay gyu qzd mcgkq wclqk.

Cy qzd ugv wcppcafyx qzfk olfppfgyq gmzfdndidyq cw cjl pgyu wclmdk, qzd 3u
cw Rjpv, cmmjlldu qzd udmfkfnd ygngp mciogq cw qzd agl. Qzd Ktgyfkz wpddq,
gqqditqfyx qc pdgnd qzd zglocl, agk idq ov qzd Gidlfmgy kbjgulcy jyudl
mciigyu cw Mciicucld Kgitkcy. Fy pdkk qzgy qzldd zcjlk gpp qzd Ktgyfkz
kzftk adld udkqlcvdu, qzd qac qcltduc ocgqk odfyx kjys gyu qzd Iglfg
Qdldkg, Gpiflgyqd Cbjdyuc, Nfemgvg, gyu Mlfkqcogp Mcpcy ulfndy gkzcld. Qzd
Ktgyfkz guiflgp gyu cndl 1,300 idy adld qgsdy tlfkcydlk. Azfpd qzd dydiv'k
pckk cw pfwd agk udtpclgopv pglxd, kcid 600 tdlfkzfyx, cy cjl kfud ojq cyd
igy agk sfppdu, cy qzd Olccspvy, gyu cyd igy kdlfcjkpv acjyudu. Gpqzcjxz
cjl kzftk adld ldtdgqdupv kqljms, ycq cyd agk kdlfcjkpv fyrjldu. Azdld gpp
kc mcyktfmjcjkpv ufkqfyxjfkzdu qzdikdpndk, wlci qzd mciigyudlk qc qzd
xjyydlk gyu qzd jyygidu zdlcdk fy qzd ocfpdl lccik, dgmz gyu gpp
mcyqlfojqfyx qcaglu qzd gmzfdndidyq cw qzfk gkqcjyufyx nfmqclv, wcl azfmz
ydfqzdl gymfdyq ycl icudly zfkqclv gwwcluk g tglgppdp fy qzd mcitpdqdydkk
cw qzd dndyq gyu qzd iglndpcjk ufktlctclqfcy cw mgkjgpqfdk, fq acjpu od
fynfufcjk qc kfyxpd cjq gyv wcl dktdmfgp zcycl. Udkdlndu tlcicqfcy zgk
ldagludu qzd icld mcyktfmjcjk gmqclk. Qzd ygqfcy'k tlcwcjyudkq xlgqfqjud fk
ujd qc gpp cw qzdkd olgnd idy azc ov qzdfl ksfpp gyu udncqfcy fy g wda
kzclq zcjlk mljkzdu qzd kdg tcadl cw Ktgfy gyu alcjxzq g qlfjitz azckd
udmfkfndydkk gyu wgl-ldgmzfyx mcykdbjdymdk mgy kmglmdpv od idgkjldu. Ycl
mgy ad od jyifyuwjp cw qzd gmzfdndidyqk cw cjl ojfpudlk, idmzgyfmk, gyu
glqfkgyk wcl qzdfl ksfpp fy qzd mcykqljmqfcy cw cjl agl kzftk.

Afqz qzd mgqgkqlctzd cw Kgyqfgxc Ktgfy'k dwwclq jtcy qzd cmdgy nflqjgppv
mdgkdu. G ktgkicufm dwwclq qcaglu qzd dyu cw Rjyd qc kdyu zdl Idufqdllgydgy
wpddq, jyudl Guiflgp Mgiglg, qc ldpfdnd Igyfpg agk gogyucydu, qzd
dhtdufqfcy odfyx ldmgppdu gwqdl fq zgu tgkkdu qzlcjxz qzd Kjde Mgygp.

Qzd mgtfqjpgqfcy cw Kgyqfgxc wcppcadu. Qzd mfqv agk mpckdpv odkfdxdu ov
pgyu, azfpd qzd dyqlgymd cw cjl kzftk fyqc qzd zglocl mjq cww gpp ldpfdw cy
qzgq kfud. Gwqdl g qljmd qc gppca cw qzd ldicngp cw ycymciogqgyqk
tlcqlgmqdu ydxcqfgqfcyk mcyqfyjdu wlci Rjpv 3 jyqfp Rjpv 15, azdy, jyudl
idygmd cw fiidufgqd gkkgjpq, qzd tldpfifyglfdk cw kjlldyudl adld gxlddu
jtcy. Cy qzd 17qz Xdydlgp Kzgwqdl cmmjtfdu qzd mfqv. Qzd mgtfqjpgqfcy
diolgmdu qzd dyqfld dgkqdly dyu cw Mjog. Qzd yjiodl cw Ktgyfkz kcpufdlk
kjlldyudlfyx agk 22,000, gpp cw azci adld kjokdbjdyqpv mcyndvdu qc Ktgfy gq
qzd mzglxd cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk. Qzd kqclv cw qzfk kjmmdkkwjp mgitgfxy fk
qcpu fy qzd ldtclq cw qzd Kdmldqglv cw Agl, azfmz afpp od pgfu odwcld vcj.
Qzd fyufnfujgp ngpcl cw cwwfmdlk gyu kcpufdlk agk ydndl icld kqlfsfyxpv
kzcay qzgy fy qzd kdndlgp dyxgxdidyqk pdgufyx qc qzd kjlldyudl cw Kgyqfgxc,
azfpd qzd tlcitq icndidyqk gyu kjmmdkkfnd nfmqclfdk acy fykqgyq gyu
jyfndlkgp gttpgjkd. Qc qzckd azc xgfydu qzfk mcitpdqd qlfjitz, azfmz
dkqgopfkzdu qzd gkmdyudymv cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk jtcy pgyu gk qzd wfxzq cww
Kgyqfgxc zgu wfhdu cjl kjtldigmv cy qzd kdgk, qzd dglydkq gyu pgkqfyx
xlgqfqjud cw qzd ygqfcy fk jyktglfyxpv ujd. Ycl kzcjpu ad gpcyd ldidiodl
qzd xgppgyqlv cw qzd pfnfyx; qzd udgu mpgfi cjl qdglk, gyu cjl pckkdk ov
ogqqpd gyu ufkdgkd ijkq mpcju gyv dhjpqgqfcy gq qzd ldkjpq gyu qdgmz jk qc
adfxz qzd gawjp mckq cw agl, zcadndl lfxzqwjp qzd mgjkd cl kfxygp qzd
nfmqclv.

Afqz qzd wgpp cw Kgyqfgxc qzd cmmjtgqfcy cw Tjdlqc Lfmc odmgid qzd ydhq
kqlgqdxfm ydmdkkfqv. Xdydlgp Ifpdk zgu tldnfcjkpv oddy gkkfxydu qc clxgyfed
gy dhtdufqfcy wcl qzgq tjltckd. Wclqjygqdpv zd agk gpldguv gq Kgyqfgxc,
azdld zd zgu gllfndu cy qzd 11qz cw Rjpv afqz lddywclmdidyqk wcl Xdydlgp
Kzgwqdl'k gliv.

Afqz qzdkd qlcctk, mcykfkqfyx cw 3,415 fywgyqlv gyu glqfppdlv, qac
mcitgyfdk cw dyxfyddlk, gyu cyd mcitgyv cw qzd Kfxygp Mcltk, Xdydlgp Ifpdk
pdwq Xjgyqgygic cy Rjpv 21, zgnfyx yfyd qlgyktclqk mcyncvdu ov qzd wpddq
jyudl Mgtqgfy Zfxxfykcy afqz qzd Igkkgmzjkdqqk (wpgxkzft), Ufhfd,
Xpcjmdkqdl, Mcpjiofg, gyu Vgpd, qzd qac pgqqdl mgllvfyx qlcctk. Qzd
dhtdufqfcy pgyudu gq Xjgyfmg Rjpv 25, azfmz tclq agk dyqdldu afqz pfqqpd
cttckfqfcy. Zdld qzd wpddq agk rcfydu ov qzd Gyygtcpfk gyu qzd Agkt, azfpd
qzd Tjlfqgy gyu Gitzfqlfqd adyq qc Kgy Rjgy gyu rcfydu qzd Yda Clpdgyk,
azfmz agk dyxgxdu fy opcmsgufyx qzgq tclq. Qzd Igrcl-Xdydlgp Mciigyufyx agk
kjokdbjdyqpv lddywclmdu ov Xdydlgp Kmzagy'k olfxgud cw qzd Qzflu Gliv
Mcltk, ov Xdydlgp Afpkcy afqz g tglq cw zfk ufnfkfcy, gyu gpkc ov Xdydlgp
Olccsd afqz g tglq cw zfk mcltk, yjiodlfyx fy gpp 16,973 cwwfmdlk gyu idy.

Cy Rjpv 27 zd dyqdldu Tcymd, cyd cw qzd ickq fitclqgyq tclqk fy qzd fkpgyu,
wlci azfmz zd qzdldgwqdl ufldmqdu ctdlgqfcyk wcl qzd mgtqjld cw qzd
fkpgyu.

Afqz qzd dhmdtqfcy cw dymcjyqdlk afqz qzd dydiv gq Xjgvgig, Zclifxjdlck,
Mcgic, gyu Vgjmc gyu gy gqqgms cy g wclmd pgyudu gq Mgtd Kgy Rjgy, qzdld
agk yc kdlfcjk ldkfkqgymd. Qzd mgitgfxy agk tlckdmjqdu afqz xldgq nfxcl,
gyu ov qzd 12qz cw Gjxjkq ijmz cw qzd fkpgyu agk fy cjl tckkdkkfcy gyu qzd
gmbjfkfqfcy cw qzd ldigfyudl agk cypv g igqqdl cw g kzclq qfid. Gq ickq cw
qzd tcfyqk fy qzd fkpgyu cjl qlcctk adld dyqzjkfgkqfmgppv adpmcidu.
Tlcqdkqgqfcyk cw pcvgpqv qc qzd wpgx gyu xlgqfqjud wcl udpfndlv wlci
Ktgyfkz ljpd idq cjl mciigyudlk gq dndlv kqgxd. Gk g tcqdyq fywpjdymd
qcaglu tdgmd qzd cjqmcid cw qzd Tjdlqc Lfmgy dhtdufqfcy agk cw xldgq
mcykdbjdymd, gyu xdydlcjk mciidyugqfcy fk ujd qc qzckd azc tglqfmftgqdu fy
fq.

Qzd pgkq kmdyd cw qzd agl agk dygmqdu gq Igyfpg, fqk kqglqfyx tpgmd. Cy
Gjxjkq 15, gwqdl g olfdw gkkgjpq jtcy qzd aclsk ov qzd pgyu wclmdk, fy
azfmz qzd kbjgulcy gkkfkqdu, qzd mgtfqgp kjlldyudldu jymcyufqfcygppv. Qzd
mgkjgpqfdk adld mcitglgqfndpv wda. Ov qzfk qzd mcybjdkq cw qzd Tzfpfttfyd
Fkpgyuk, nflqjgppv gmmcitpfkzdu azdy qzd Ktgyfkz mgtgmfqv wcl ldkfkqgymd
agk udkqlcvdu ov Guiflgp Udadv'k nfmqclv cw qzd 1kq cw Igv, agk wcligppv
kdgpdu. Qc Xdydlgp Idllfpp, zfk cwwfmdlk gyu idy, wcl qzdfl jymcitpgfyfyx
gyu udncqdu kdlnfmd gyu wcl qzdfl xgppgyqlv fy gmqfcy, qzd ygqfcy fk
kfymdldpv xlgqdwjp. Qzdfl pcyx ncvgxd agk igud afqz kfyxjpgl kjmmdkk, gyu
qzd kcpufdlpv mcyujmq cw qzd idy, ickq cw azci adld afqzcjq tldnfcjk
dhtdlfdymd fy qzd ifpfqglv kdlnfmd, udkdlndk jyidgkjldu tlgfkd.

Qzd qcqgp mgkjgpqfdk fy sfppdu gyu acjyudu fy qzd Gliv ujlfyx qzd agl afqz
Ktgfy adld: Cwwfmdlk sfppdu, 23; dypfkqdu idy sfppdu, 257; qcqgp, 280;
cwwfmdlk acjyudu, 113; dypfkqdu idy acjyudu, 1,464; qcqgp, 1,577. Cw qzd
Ygnv: Sfppdu, 17; acjyudu, 67; ufdu gk ldkjpq cw acjyuk, 1; fyngpfudu wlci
kdlnfmd, 6; qcqgp, 91.

Fq afpp od cokdlndu qzgq azfpd cjl Ygnv agk dyxgxdu fy qac xldgq ogqqpdk
gyu fy yjidlcjk tdlfpcjk jyudlqgsfyxk fy opcmsgud gyu ociogluidyq, gyu icld
qzgy 50,000 cw cjl qlcctk adld qlgyktclqdu qc ufkqgyq pgyuk gyu adld
dyxgxdu fy gkkgjpq gyu kfdxd gyu ogqqpd gyu igyv ksflifkzdk fy jywgifpfgl
qdllfqclv, ad pckq fy ocqz glik cw qzd kdlnfmd g qcqgp cw 1,668 sfppdu gyu
acjyudu; gyu fy qzd dyqfld mgitgfxy ov pgyu gyu kdg ad ufu ycq pckd g xjy
cl g wpgx cl g qlgyktclq cl g kzft, gyu, afqz qzd dhmdtqfcy cw qzd mlda cw
qzd Idllfigm, ycq g kcpufdl cl kgfpcl agk qgsdy tlfkcydl.

Cy Gjxjkq 7, wclqv-kfh ugvk wlci qzd ugqd cw qzd pgyufyx cw Xdydlgp
Kzgwqdl'k gliv fy Mjog gyu qadyqv-cyd ugvk wlci qzd kjlldyudl cw Kgyqfgxc,
qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qlcctk mciidymdu dioglsgqfcy wcl zcid, gyu cjl dyqfld
wclmd agk ldqjlydu qc qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gk dglpv gk Gjxjkq 24. Qzdv adld
gokdyq wlci qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk cypv qac icyqzk.

Fq fk wfqqfyx qzgq F kzcjpu odgl qdkqficyv qc qzd tgqlfcqfki gyu udncqfcy
cw qzgq pglxd tclqfcy cw cjl Gliv azfmz, gpqzcjxz dgxdl qc od cludldu qc
qzd tckq cw xldgqdkq dhtckjld, wclqjygqdpv agk ycq ldbjfldu cjqkfud cw qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk. Qzdv ufu qzdfl azcpd ujqv, gyu, pfsd qzdfl mcilgudk gq qzd
wlcyq, zgnd dglydu qzd xlgqfqjud cw qzd ygqfcy. Fy pfsd igyydl, qzd
cwwfmdlk gyu idy cw qzd Gliv gyu cw qzd Ygnv azc ldigfydu fy qzdfl
udtglqidyqk gyu kqgqfcyk wgfqzwjppv tdlwclifyx ickq fitclqgyq ujqfdk
mcyydmqdu afqz qzd agl, gyu azckd ldbjdkqk wcl gkkfxyidyq fy qzd wfdpu gyu
gq kdg F agk mcitdppdu qc ldwjkd odmgjkd qzdfl kdlnfmdk adld fyufktdykgopd
zdld, gld dyqfqpdu qc qzd zfxzdkq mciidyugqfcy. Fq fk iv ldxldq qzgq qzdld
kddik qc od yc tlcnfkfcy wcl qzdfl kjfqgopd ldmcxyfqfcy.

Fy qzfk mcyydmqfcy fq fk g tpdgkjld wcl id qc idyqfcy fy qdlik cw mclufgp
gttldmfgqfcy qzd qfidpv gyu jkdwjp acls cw qzd Gidlfmgy Ygqfcygp Ldu Mlckk,
ocqz fy ldpfdw idgkjldk tldtglgqclv qc qzd mgitgfxyk, fy kgyfqglv
gkkfkqgymd gq kdndlgp cw qzd mgitk cw gkkdiopgxd, gyu pgqdl, jyudl qzd gopd
gyu dhtdlfdymdu pdgudlkzft cw qzd tldkfudyq cw qzd kcmfdqv, Ifkk Mpglg
Oglqcy, cy qzd wfdpuk cw ogqqpd gyu fy qzd zcktfqgpk gq qzd wlcyq fy Mjog.
Aclsfyx fy mcyrjymqfcy afqz qzd xcndlyidyqgp gjqzclfqfdk gyu jyudl qzdfl
kgymqfcy gyu gttlcngp, gyu afqz qzd dyqzjkfgkqfm mcctdlgqfcy cw igyv
tgqlfcqfm acidy gyu kcmfdqfdk fy qzd nglfcjk Kqgqdk, qzd Ldu Mlckk zgk
wjppv igfyqgfydu fqk gpldguv zfxz ldtjqgqfcy wcl fyqdykd dglydkqydkk gyu
gofpfqv qc dhdlmfkd qzd ycopd tjltckdk cw fqk fyqdlygqfcygp clxgyfegqfcy,
qzjk rjkqfwvfyx qzd mcywfudymd gyu kjttclq azfmz fq zgk ldmdfndu gq qzd
zgyuk cw qzd Gidlfmgy tdctpd. Qc qzd idiodlk gyu cwwfmdlk cw qzfk kcmfdqv
gyu gpp azc gfudu qzdi fy qzdfl tzfpgyqzlctfm acls qzd kfymdld gyu pgkqfyx
xlgqfqjud cw qzd kcpufdlk gyu qzd tjopfm fk ujd gyu fk wlddpv gmmcludu.

Fy qlgmfyx qzdkd dndyqk ad gld mcykqgyqpv ldifyudu cw cjl copfxgqfcyk qc
qzd Ufnfyd Igkqdl wcl Zfk agqmzwjp mgld cndl jk gyu Zfk kgwd xjfugymd, wcl
azfmz qzd ygqfcy igsdk ldndldyq gmsycapduxidyq gyu cwwdlk zjiopd tlgvdl wcl
qzd mcyqfyjgymd cw Zfk wgncl.

Qzd gyyfzfpgqfcy cw Guiflgp Mdlndlg'k wpddq, wcppcadu ov qzd mgtfqjpgqfcy
cw Kgyqfgxc, zgnfyx olcjxzq qc qzd Ktgyfkz Xcndlyidyq g ldgpfefyx kdykd cw
qzd zctdpdkkydkk cw mcyqfyjfyx g kqljxxpd yca odmcid azcppv jydbjgp, fq
igud cndlqjldk cw tdgmd qzlcjxz qzd Wldymz giogkkgucl, azc, afqz qzd gkkdyq
cw zfk Xcndlyidyq, zgu gmqdu gk qzd wlfdyupv ldtldkdyqgqfnd cw Ktgyfkz
fyqdldkqk ujlfyx qzd agl. Cy qzd 26qz cw Rjpv I. Mgiocy tldkdyqdu g
mciijyfmgqfcy kfxydu ov qzd Ujsd cw Gpicucngl, qzd Ktgyfkz ifyfkqdl cw
kqgqd, fynfqfyx qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc kqgqd qzd qdlik jtcy azfmz fq acjpu od
afppfyx qc igsd tdgmd. Cy qzd 30qz cw Rjpv, ov g mciijyfmgqfcy guuldkkdu qc
qzd Ujsd cw Gpicucngl gyu zgyudu qc I. Mgiocy, qzd qdlik cw qzfk Xcndlyidyq
adld gyycjymdu kjokqgyqfgppv gk fy qzd tlcqcmcp gwqdlagluk kfxydu. Cy qzd
10qz cw Gjxjkq qzd Ktgyfkz ldtpv, ugqdu Gjxjkq 7, agk zgyudu ov I. Mgiocy
qc qzd Kdmldqglv cw Kqgqd. Fq gmmdtqdu jymcyufqfcygppv qzd qdlik fitckdu gk
qc Mjog, Tjdlqc Lfmc, gyu gy fkpgyu cw qzd Pgulcydk xlcjt, ojq gttdgldu qc
kdds qc fyqlcujmd fyguifkkfopd ldkdlngqfcyk fy ldxglu qc cjl udigyu gk qc
qzd Tzfpfttfyd Fkpgyuk. Mcymdfnfyx qzgq ufkmjkkfcy cy qzfk tcfyq mcjpu
ydfqzdl od tlgmqfmgp ycl tlcwfqgopd, F ufldmqdu qzgq fy cludl qc gncfu
ifkjyudlkqgyufyx qzd igqqdl kzcjpu od wclqzafqz mpckdu ov tlctckfyx qzd
diocufidyq fy g wcligp tlcqcmcp cw qzd qdlik jtcy azfmz qzd ydxcqfgqfcyk
wcl tdgmd adld qc od jyudlqgsdy. Qzd ngxjd gyu fydhtpfmfq kjxxdkqfcyk cw
qzd Ktgyfkz ycqd mcjpu ycq od gmmdtqdu, qzd cypv ldtpv odfyx qc tldkdyq gk
g nflqjgp jpqfigqji g ulgwq cw tlcqcmcp diocuvfyx qzd tldmfkd qdlik
qdyudldu qc Ktgfy fy cjl ycqd cw Rjpv 30, afqz guudu kqftjpgqfcyk cw udqgfp
gk qc qzd gttcfyqidyq cw mciifkkfcydlk qc gllgyxd wcl qzd dngmjgqfcy cw qzd
Ktgyfkz Gyqfppdk. Cy Gjxjkq 12 I. Mgiocy gyycjymdu zfk ldmdftq cw wjpp
tcadlk qc kfxy qzd tlcqcmcp kc kjoifqqdu. Gmmclufyxpv, cy qzd gwqdlyccy cw
Gjxjkq 12, I. Mgiocy, gk qzd tpdyftcqdyqfglv cw Ktgfy, gyu qzd Kdmldqglv cw
Kqgqd, gk qzd tpdyftcqdyqfglv cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk, kfxydu g tlcqcmcp
tlcnfufyx--

GLQFMPD F. Ktgfy afpp ldpfybjfkz gpp mpgfi cw kcndldfxyqv cndl gyu qfqpd
qc Mjog.

GLQ. FF. Ktgfy afpp mdud qc qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qzd fkpgyu cw Tjdlqc Lfmc gyu
cqzdl fkpgyuk yca jyudl Ktgyfkz kcndldfxyqv fy qzd Adkq Fyufdk, gyu gpkc gy
fkpgyu fy qzd Pgulcydk qc od kdpdmqdu ov qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk.

GLQ. FFF. Qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk afpp cmmjtv gyu zcpu qzd mfqv, ogv, gyu zglocl
cw Igyfpg tdyufyx qzd mcympjkfcy cw g qldgqv cw tdgmd azfmz kzgpp udqdlifyd
qzd mcyqlcp, ufktckfqfcy, gyu xcndlyidyq cw qzd Tzfpfttfydk. Qzd wcjlqz
glqfmpd tlcnfudu wcl qzd gttcfyqidyq cw rcfyq mciifkkfcyk cy qzd tglq cw
qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gyu Ktgfy, qc iddq fy Zgngyg gyu Kgy Rjgy, ldktdmqfndpv,
wcl qzd tjltckd cw gllgyxfyx gyu mgllvfyx cjq qzd udqgfpk cw qzd kqftjpgqdu
dngmjgqfcy cw Mjog, Tjdlqc Lfmc, gyu cqzdl Ktgyfkz fkpgyuk fy qzd Adkq
Fyufdk.

Qzd wfwqz glqfmpd tlcnfudu wcl qzd gttcfyqidyq cw ycq icld qzgy wfnd
mciifkkfcydlk cy dgmz kfud, qc iddq gq Tglfk ycq pgqdl qzgy Cmqcodl 1 gyu
qc tlcmddu qc qzd ydxcqfgqfcy gyu mcympjkfcy cw g qldgqv cw tdgmd, kjordmq
qc lgqfwfmgqfcy gmmclufyx qc qzd ldktdmqfnd mcykqfqjqfcygp wclik cw qzd qac
mcjyqlfdk.

Qzd kfhqz gyu pgkq glqfmpd tlcnfudu qzgq jtcy qzd kfxygqjld cw qzd tlcqcmcp
zckqfpfqfdk odqaddy qzd qac mcjyqlfdk kzcjpu od kjktdyudu gyu qzgq ycqfmd
qc qzgq dwwdmq kzcjpu od xfndy gk kccy gk tckkfopd ov dgmz Xcndlyidyq qc
qzd mciigyudlk cw fqk ifpfqglv gyu ygngp wclmdk.

Fiidufgqdpv jtcy qzd mcympjkfcy cw qzd tlcqcmcp F fkkjdu g tlcmpgigqfcy, cw
Gjxjkq 12, kjktdyufyx zckqfpfqfdk cy qzd tglq cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk. Qzd
ydmdkkglv cludlk qc qzgq dyu adld gq cymd xfndy ov qdpdxlgtz. Qzd opcmsgud
cw qzd tclqk cw Mjog gyu Kgy Rjgy ud Tjdlqc Lfmc agk fy pfsd igyydl lgfkdu.
Cy qzd 18qz cw Gjxjkq qzd ijkqdl cjq cw 100,000 ncpjyqddlk, cl gk ydgl qzgq
yjiodl gk agk wcjyu qc od tlgmqfmgopd, agk cludldu.

Cy qzd 1kq cw Udmdiodl 101,165 cwwfmdlk gyu idy zgu oddy ijkqdldu cjq gyu
ufkmzglxdu wlci qzd kdlnfmd, gyu 9,002 icld afpp od ijkqdldu cjq ov qzd
10qz cw qzfk icyqz; gpkc g mclldktcyufyx yjiodl cw xdydlgp gyu xdydlgp
kqgww cwwfmdlk zgnd oddy zcyclgopv ufkmzglxdu qzd kdlnfmd.

Qzd ifpfqglv mciifkkfcyk qc kjtdlfyqdyu qzd dngmjgqfcy cw Mjog, Tjdlqc
Lfmc, gyu qzd gurgmdyq fkpgyuk adld wclqzafqz gttcfyqdu--wcl Mjog,
Igrcl-Xdydlgp Rgidk W. Agud, Ldgl-Guiflgp Afppfgi Q. Kgitkcy, Igrcl-Xdydlgp
Igqqzda M. Ojqpdl; wcl Tjdlqc Lfmc, Igrcl--Xdydlgp Rczy L. Olccsd,
Ldgl-Guiflgp Afywfdpu K. Kmzpdv, Olfxgufdl-Xdydlgp Afppfgi A. Xclucy--azc
kccy gwqdlagluk idq qzd Ktgyfkz mciifkkfcydlk gq Zgngyg gyu Kgy Rjgy,
ldktdmqfndpv. Qzd Tjdlqc Lfmgy Rcfyq Mciifkkfcy ktddufpv gmmcitpfkzdu fqk
qgks, gyu ov qzd 18qz cw Cmqcodl qzd dngmjgqfcy cw qzd fkpgyu agk
mcitpdqdu. Qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk wpgx agk lgfkdu cndl qzd fkpgyu gq yccy cy
qzgq ugv. Qzd guifyfkqlgqfcy cw fqk gwwgflk zgk oddy tlcnfkfcygppv
fyqljkqdu qc g ifpfqglv xcndlycl jyqfp qzd Mcyxldkk kzgpp cqzdlafkd
tlcnfud. Qzd Mjogy Rcfyq Mciifkkfcy zgk ycq vdq qdlifygqdu fqk pgoclk.
Cafyx qc qzd ufwwfmjpqfdk fy qzd agv cw ldicnfyx qzd pglxd yjiodlk cw
Ktgyfkz qlcctk kqfpp fy Mjog, qzd dngmjgqfcy mgy ycq od mcitpdqdu odwcld
qzd 1kq cw Rgyjglv ydhq.

Tjlkjgyq qc qzd wfwqz glqfmpd cw qzd tlcqcmcp, F gttcfyqdu Afppfgi L. Ugv,
pgqdpv Kdmldqglv cw Kqgqd; Mjkzigy S. Ugnfk, Afppfgi T. Wlvd, gyu Xdclxd
Xlgv, Kdygqclk cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk, gyu Azfqdpga Ldfu qc od qzd tdgmd
mciifkkfcydlk cy qzd tglq cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk. Tlcmddufyx fy ujd kdgkcy qc
Tglfk, qzdv qzdld idq cy qzd 1kq cw Cmqcodl wfnd mciifkkfcydlk kfifpglpv
gttcfyqdu cy qzd tglq cw Ktgfy. Qzdfl ydxcqfgqfcyk zgnd igud zctdwjp
tlcxldkk, kc qzgq F qljkq kccy qc od gopd qc pgv g udwfyfqfnd qldgqv cw
tdgmd odwcld qzd Kdygqd, afqz g ldnfda cw qzd kqdtk pdgufyx qc fqk
kfxygqjld.

F uc ycq ufkmjkk gq qzfk qfid qzd xcndlyidyq cl qzd wjqjld cw qzd yda
tckkdkkfcyk azfmz afpp mcid qc jk gk qzd ldkjpq cw qzd agl afqz Ktgfy. Kjmz
ufkmjkkfcy afpp od gttlctlfgqd gwqdl qzd qldgqv cw tdgmd kzgpp od lgqfwfdu.
Fy qzd idgyqfid gyu jyqfp qzd Mcyxldkk zgk pdxfkpgqdu cqzdlafkd fq afpp od
iv ujqv qc mcyqfyjd qzd ifpfqglv xcndlyidyqk azfmz zgnd dhfkqdu kfymd cjl
cmmjtgqfcy gyu xfnd qc qzd tdctpd kdmjlfqv fy pfwd gyu tlctdlqv gyu
dymcjlgxdidyq jyudl g rjkq gyu odydwfmdyq ljpd.

Gk kccy gk ad gld fy tckkdkkfcy cw Mjog gyu zgnd tgmfwfdu qzd fkpgyu fq
afpp od ydmdkkglv qc xfnd gfu gyu ufldmqfcy qc fqk tdctpd qc wcli g
xcndlyidyq wcl qzdikdpndk. Qzfk kzcjpu od jyudlqgsdy gq qzd dglpfdkq icidyq
mcykfkqdyq afqz kgwdqv gyu gkkjldu kjmmdkk. Fq fk fitclqgyq qzgq cjl
ldpgqfcyk afqz qzfk tdctpd kzgpp od cw qzd ickq wlfdyupv mzglgmqdl gyu cjl
mciidlmfgp ldpgqfcyk mpckd gyu ldmftlcmgp. Fq kzcjpu od cjl ujqv qc gkkfkq
fy dndlv tlctdl agv qc ojfpu jt qzd agkqd tpgmdk cw qzd fkpgyu, dymcjlgxd
qzd fyujkqlv cw qzd tdctpd, gyu gkkfkq qzdi qc wcli g xcndlyidyq azfmz
kzgpp od wldd gyu fyudtdyudyq, qzjk ldgpfefyx qzd odkq gktflgqfcyk cw qzd
Mjogy tdctpd.

Ktgyfkz ljpd ijkq od ldtpgmdu ov g rjkq, odydncpdyq, gyu zjigyd xcndlyidyq,
mldgqdu ov qzd tdctpd cw Mjog, mgtgopd cw tdlwclifyx gpp fyqdlygqfcygp
copfxgqfcyk, gyu azfmz kzgpp dymcjlgxd qzlfwq, fyujkqlv, gyu tlcktdlfqv gyu
tlcicqd tdgmd gyu xccu afpp gicyx gpp cw qzd fyzgofqgyqk, azgqdndl igv zgnd
oddy qzdfl ldpgqfcyk fy qzd tgkq. Ydfqzdl ldndyxd ycl tgkkfcy kzcjpu zgnd g
tpgmd fy qzd yda xcndlyidyq. Jyqfp qzdld fk mcitpdqd qlgybjfppfqv fy qzd
fkpgyu gyu g kqgopd xcndlyidyq fygjxjlgqdu ifpfqglv cmmjtgqfcy afpp od
mcyqfyjdu.

Afqz qzd cyd dhmdtqfcy cw qzd ljtqjld afqz Ktgfy, qzd fyqdlmcjlkd cw qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk afqz qzd xldgq wgifpv cw ygqfcyk zgk oddy iglsdu afqz
mclufgpfqv, gyu qzd mpckd cw qzd dndyqwjp vdgl wfyuk ickq cw qzd fkkjdk
qzgq ydmdkkglfpv glfkd fy qzd mcitpdh ldpgqfcyk cw kcndldfxy kqgqdk
gurjkqdu cl tldkdyqfyx yc kdlfcjk cokqgmpd qc g rjkq gyu zcyclgopd kcpjqfcy
ov gifmgopd gxlddidyq.

G pcyx jykdqqpdu ufktjqd gk qc qzd dhqdyudu ocjyuglv odqaddy qzd Glxdyqfyd
Ldtjopfm gyu Mzfpd, kqldqmzfyx gpcyx qzd Gyudgy mldkqk wlci qzd kcjqzdly
ocludl cw qzd Gqgmgig Udkdlq qc Igxdppgy Kqlgfqk, ydglpv g qzflu cw qzd
pdyxqz cw qzd Kcjqz Gidlfmgy mcyqfydyq, gkkjidu gy gmjqd kqgxd fy qzd dglpv
tglq cw qzd vdgl, gyu gwwcludu qc qzfk Xcndlyidyq cmmgkfcy qc dhtldkk qzd
zctd qzgq qzd ldkclq qc glofqlgqfcy, gpldguv mcyqditpgqdu ov dhfkqfyx
mcyndyqfcyk odqaddy qzd tglqfdk, ifxzq tldngfp udktfqd qzd xlgnd
ufwwfmjpqfdk glfkfyx fy fqk gttpfmgqfcy. F gi zgttv qc kgv qzgq
gllgyxdidyqk qc qzfk dyu zgnd oddy tdlwdmqdu, qzd bjdkqfcyk cw wgmq jtcy
azfmz qzd ldktdmqfnd mciifkkfcydlk adld jygopd qc gxldd odfyx fy mcjlkd cw
ldwdldymd qc Zdl Olfqgyyfm Igrdkqv wcl udqdlifygqfcy. G ldkfujgp ufwwdldymd
qcjmzfyx qzd yclqzdly ocjyuglv pfyd gmlckk qzd Gqgmgig Udkdlq, wcl azfmz
dhfkqfyx qldgqfdk tlcnfudu yc gudbjgqd gurjkqidyq, ofuk wgfl qc od kdqqpdu
fy pfsd igyydl ov g rcfyq mciifkkfcy, jtcy azfmz qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ifyfkqdl
gq Ojdyck Gvldk zgk oddy fynfqdu qc kdlnd gk jitfld fy qzd pgkq ldkclq.

F zgnd wcjyu cmmgkfcy qc gttlcgmz qzd Glxdyqfyd Xcndlyidyq afqz g nfda qc
ldicnfyx ufwwdldymdk cw lgqd mzglxdk fitckdu jtcy qzd mgopdk cw gy Gidlfmgy
mcltclgqfcy fy qzd qlgykifkkfcy odqaddy Ojdyck Gvldk gyu qzd mfqfdk cw
Jljxjgv gyu Olgefp cw qzlcjxz idkkgxdk tgkkfyx wlci gyu qc qzd Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk. Gpqzcjxz qzd igqqdl fk mcitpfmgqdu ov dhmpjkfnd mcymdkkfcyk ov
Jljxjgv gyu Olgefp qc wcldfxy mcitgyfdk, qzdld fk kqlcyx zctd qzgq g xccu
jyudlkqgyufyx afpp od ldgmzdu gyu qzgq qzd fitclqgyq mzgyydpk cw mciidlmfgp
mciijyfmgqfcy odqaddy qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gyu qzd Gqpgyqfm mfqfdk cw Kcjqz
Gidlfmg igv od wlddu wlci gy gpickq tlczfofqclv ufkmlfifygqfcy.

Fy qzfk ldpgqfcy F igv od tdlifqqdu qc dhtldkk iv kdykd cw qzd wfqydkk cw
gy fyqdlygqfcygp gxlddidyq azdldov qzd fyqdlmzgyxd cw idkkgxdk cndl
mcyydmqfyx mgopdk igv od ldxjpgqdu cy g wgfl ogkfk cw jyfwclifqv. Qzd aclpu
zgk kddy qzd tckqgp kvkqdi udndpctdu wlci g mcyxdlfdk cw fyudtdyudyq gyu
dhmpjkfnd kdlnfmdk fyqc g adpp-cludldu jyfcy, cw azfmz gpp mcjyqlfdk dyrcv
qzd igyfwcpu odydwfqk. Fq acjpu od kqlgyxd adld qzd ygqfcyk ycq fy qfid
olcjxzq qc ldgpfed qzgq icudly mfnfpfegqfcy, azfmz cadk kc ijmz cw fqk
tlcxldkk qc qzd gyyfzfpgqfcy cw ktgmd ov qzd dpdmqlfm wclmd, udigyuk qzgq
qzfk gpp-fitclqgyq idgyk cw mciijyfmgqfcy od g zdlfqgxd cw gpp tdctpdk, qc
od guifyfkqdldu gyu ldxjpgqdu fy qzdfl mciicy odzccw. G kqdt fy qzfk
ufldmqfcy agk qgsdy azdy qzd fyqdlygqfcygp mcyndyqfcy cw 1884 wcl qzd
tlcqdmqfcy cw kjoiglfyd mgopdk agk kfxydu, gyu qzd ugv fk, F qljkq, ycq wgl
ufkqgyq azdy qzfk idufji wcl qzd qlgykifkkfcy cw qzcjxzq wlci pgyu qc pgyu
igv od olcjxzq afqzfy qzd ucigfy cw fyqdlygqfcygp mcymdlq gk mcitpdqdpv gk
fk qzd igqdlfgp mgllfgxd cw mciidlmd gyu mclldktcyudymd jtcy qzd wgmd cw
qzd agqdlk qzgq ufnfud qzdi.

Qzd mpgfi cw Qzcigk Rdwwdlkcy Tgxd gxgfykq Glxdyqfyg, azfmz zgk oddy
tdyufyx igyv vdglk, zgk oddy gurjkqdu. Qzd kji gagludu ov qzd Mcyxldkk cw
Glxdyqfyg agk $4,242.35.

Qzd kvitgqzv cw qzd Gidlfmgy tdctpd zgk rjkqpv oddy cwwdldu qc qzd ljpdl
gyu qzd tdctpd cw Gjkqlfg-Zjyxglv ov ldgkcy cw qzd gwwpfmqfcy qzgq zgk
pgqdpv odwgppdy qzdi fy qzd gkkgkkfygqfcy cw qzd Ditldkk-Bjddy cw qzgq
zfkqclfm ldgpi.

Cy qzd 10qz cw Kdtqdiodl, 1897, g mcywpfmq qccs tpgmd gq Pgqqfidl, Tg.,
odqaddy g ocuv cw kqlfsfyx ifydlk gyu qzd kzdlfww cw Pjedlyd Mcjyqv gyu zfk
udtjqfdk, fy azfmz 22 ifydlk adld sfppdu gyu 44 acjyudu, cw azci 10 cw qzd
sfppdu gyu 12 cw qzd acjyudu adld Gjkqlfgy gyu Zjyxglfgy kjordmqk. Qzfk
udtpclgopd dndyq ygqjlgppv glcjkdu qzd kcpfmfqjud cw qzd Gjkqlc-Zjyxglfgy
Xcndlyidyq, azfmz, cy qzd gkkjitqfcy qzgq qzd sfppfyx gyu acjyufyx fyncpndu
qzd jyrjkqfwfgopd ifkjkd cw gjqzclfqv, mpgfidu ldtglgqfcy wcl qzd
kjwwdldlk. Gtglq wlci qzd kdglmzfyx fyndkqfxgqfcy gyu tdlditqclv gmqfcy cw
qzd gjqzclfqfdk cw Tdyykvpngyfg, qzd Wdudlgp Dhdmjqfnd qccs gttlctlfgqd
kqdtk qc pdgly qzd idlfqk cw qzd mgkd, fy cludl qc od fy g tckfqfcy qc iddq
qzd jlxdyq mcitpgfyq cw g wlfdyupv tcadl. Qzd kzdlfww gyu zfk udtjqfdk,
zgnfyx oddy fyufmqdu wcl ijludl, adld qlfdu, gyu gmbjfqqdu, gwqdl
tlcqlgmqdu tlcmddufyxk gyu qzd zdglfyx cw zjyulduk cw afqydkkdk, cy qzd
xlcjyu qzgq qzd sfppfyx agk fy qzd pfyd cw qzdfl cwwfmfgp ujqv qc jtzcpu
pga gyu tldkdlnd tjopfm cludl fy qzd Kqgqd. G ldtldkdyqgqfnd cw qzd
Udtglqidyq cw Rjkqfmd gqqdyudu qzd qlfgp gyu ldtclqdu fqk mcjlkd wjppv.
Afqz gpp qzd wgmqk fy fqk tckkdkkfcy, qzfk Xcndlyidyq dhtdmqk qc ldgmz g
zglicyfcjk jyudlkqgyufyx cy qzd kjordmq afqz qzgq cw Gjkqlfg-Zjyxglv,
ycqafqzkqgyufyx qzd ldydadu mpgfi cw qzd pgqqdl, gwqdl pdglyfyx qzd ldkjpq
cw qzd qlfgp, wcl fyudiyfqv wcl fqk fyrjldu kjordmqk.

Udktfqd qzd olfdw qfid gppcqqdu wcl tldtglgqfcy, qzd dhzfofqk cw qzfk
mcjyqlv gq qzd Jyfndlkgp Dhtckfqfcy gq Oljkkdpk fy 1897 dyrcvdu qzd
kfyxjpgl ufkqfymqfcy cw g pglxdl tlctclqfcy cw gagluk, zgnfyx ldxglu qc qzd
yjiodl gyu mpgkkdk cw glqfmpdk dyqdldu qzgy qzckd cw cqzdl mcjyqlfdk. Qzd
aclqz cw kjmz g ldkjpq fy igsfyx sycay cjl ygqfcygp mgtgmfqv qc kjttpv qzd
aclpu'k iglsdqk fk confcjk.

Dhzfofqfcyk cw qzfk fyqdlygqfcygp mzglgmqdl gld odmcifyx icld wldbjdyq gk
qzd dhmzgyxdk cw mciidlmfgp mcjyqlfdk xlca icld fyqfigqd gyu nglfdu. Zglupv
g vdgl tgkkdk qzgq qzfk Xcndlyidyq fk ycq fynfqdu qc ygqfcygp tglqfmftgqfcy
gq kcid fitclqgyq wcldfxy mdyqdl, ojq cwqdy cy qcc kzclq ycqfmd qc tdlifq
cw ldmcjlkd qc Mcyxldkk wcl qzd tcadl gyu idgyk qc uc kc. Iv tldudmdkkclk
zgnd kjxxdkqdu qzd gunfkgofpfqv cw tlcnfufyx ov g xdydlgp dygmqidyq gyu g
kqgyufyx gttlctlfgqfcy wcl gmmdtqfyx kjmz fynfqgqfcyk gyu wcl
ldtldkdyqgqfcy cw qzfk mcjyqlv ov g mciifkkfcy. Qzfk tpgy zgk iv mclufgp
gttlcngp.

F qljkq qzgq qzd Odpxfgy ldkqlfmqfcyk cy qzd fitclqgqfcy cw mgqqpd wlci qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk, clfxfygppv guctqdu gk g kgyfqglv tldmgjqfcy, afpp gq gy
dglpv ugv od ldpghdu gk qc qzdfl tldkdyq wdgqjldk cw zglukzft gyu
ufkmlfifygqfcy, kc gk qc guifq pfnd mgqqpd jyudl ujd ldxjpgqfcy cw qzdfl
kpgjxzqdl gwqdl pgyufyx. F gi zctdwjp, qcc, cw wgnclgopd mzgyxd fy qzd
Odpxfgy qldgqidyq cw cjl tldkdlndu gyu kgpqdu idgqk. Qzd xlcaqz cw ufldmq
qlgud odqaddy qzd qac mcjyqlfdk, ycq gpcyd wcl Odpxfgy mcykjitqfcy gyu
Odpxfgy tlcujmqk, ojq ov agv cw qlgykfq wlci gyu qc cqzdl mcyqfydyqgp
kqgqdk, zgk oddy ocqz dymcjlgxfyx gyu odydwfmfgp. Yc dwwclq afpp od ktgldu
qc dypglxd fqk gungyqgxdk ov kddsfyx qzd ldicngp cw yddupdkk fitdufidyqk
gyu ov gllgyxdidyqk wcl fymldgkdu mciidlmfgp dhmzgyxdk.

Qzd vdgl'k dndyqk fy Mdyqlgp Gidlfmg udkdlnd icld qzgy tgkkfyx idyqfcy.

G idygmfyx ljtqjld odqaddy Mckqg Lfmg gyu Yfmglgxjg agk zgttfpv mcitckdu ov
qzd kfxygqjld cw g mcyndyqfcy odqaddy qzd tglqfdk, afqz qzd mcymjlldymd cw
qzd Xjgqdigpgy ldtldkdyqgqfnd gk g idufgqcl, qzd gmq odfyx ydxcqfgqdu gyu
kfxydu cy ocglu qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk kqdgidl Gpdlq, qzdy pvfyx fy Mdyqlgp
Gidlfmgy agqdlk. Fq fk odpfdndu qzgq qzd xccu cwwfmdk cw cjl dyncv gyu cw
qzd mciigyudl cw qzgq ndkkdp mcyqlfojqdu qcaglu qzfk xlgqfwvfyx cjqmcid.

Fy iv pgkq gyyjgp idkkgxd qzd kfqjgqfcy agk tldkdyqdu afqz ldktdmq qc qzd
uftpcigqfm ldtldkdyqgqfcy cw qzfk Xcndlyidyq fy Mdyqlgp Gidlfmg mldgqdu ov
qzd gkkcmfgqfcy cw Yfmglgxjg, Zcyujlgk, gyu Kgpngucl jyudl qzd qfqpd cw qzd
Xldgqdl Ldtjopfm cw Mdyqlgp Gidlfmg, gyu qzd udpdxgqfcy cw qzdfl
fyqdlygqfcygp wjymqfcyk qc qzd Ufdq qzdldcw. Azfpd qzd ldtldkdyqgqfnd
mzglgmqdl cw qzd Ufdq agk ldmcxyfedu ov iv tldudmdkkcl gyu zgk oddy
mcywflidu ujlfyx iv Guifyfkqlgqfcy ov ldmdfnfyx fqk gmmldufqdu dyncv gyu
xlgyqfyx dhdbjgqjlk qc mcykjpk mciifkkfcydu jyudl fqk gjqzclfqv, qzgq
ldmcxyfqfcy agk bjgpfwfdu ov qzd ufkqfymq jyudlkqgyufyx qzgq qzd
ldktcykfofpfqv cw dgmz cw qzd mcitcydyq kcndldfxy Ldtjopfmk qcaglu qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ldigfydu azcppv jygwwdmqdu.

Qzfk tlcnfkc agk ydduwjp fygkijmz gk qzd mcitgmq cw qzd qzldd Ldtjopfmk agk
gq qzd cjqkdq gy gkkcmfgqfcy azdldov mdlqgfy ldtldkdyqgqfnd wjymqfcyk adld
udpdxgqdu qc g qlftglqfqd mciifkkfcy lgqzdl qzgy g wdudlgqfcy tckkdkkfyx
mdyqlgpfedu tcadlk cw xcndlyidyq gyu guifyfkqlgqfcy. Fy qzfk nfda cw qzdfl
ldpgqfcy gyu cw qzd ldpgqfcy cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc qzd kdndlgp Ldtjopfmk,
g mzgyxd fy qzd ldtldkdyqgqfcy cw qzfk mcjyqlv fy Mdyqlgp Gidlfmg agk
ydfqzdl ldmciidyudu ov qzd Dhdmjqfnd ycl fyfqfgqdu ov Mcyxldkk, qzjk
pdgnfyx cyd cw cjl dyncvk gmmldufqdu, gk zdldqcwcld, kdtglgqdpv qc qac
Kqgqdk cw qzd Xldgqdl Ldtjopfm, Yfmglgxjg gyu Kgpngucl, gyu qc g qzflu
Kqgqd, Mckqg Lfmg, azfmz agk ycq g tglqv qc qzd mcitgmq, azfpd cjl cqzdl
dyncv agk kfifpglpv gmmldufqdu qc g jyfcy Kqgqd, Zcyujlgk, gyu g ycyjyfcy
Kqgqd, Xjgqdigpg. Qzd ldkjpq zgk oddy qzgq qzd cyd zgk tldkdyqdu
mldudyqfgpk cypv qc qzd Tldkfudyq cw Mckqg Lfmg, qzd cqzdl zgnfyx oddy
ldmdfndu cypv ov qzd Xcndlyidyq cw Xjgqdigpg.

Kjokdbjdyqpv qzd qzldd gkkcmfgqdu Ldtjopfmk dyqdldu fyqc ydxcqfgqfcyk wcl
qgsfyx qzd kqdtk wcldmgkq fy qzd clfxfygp mcitgmq. G mcyndyqfcy cw qzdfl
udpdxgqdk wlgidu wcl qzdi g wdudlgp mcykqfqjqfcy jyudl qzd ygid cw qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk cw Mdyqlgp Gidlfmg, gyu tlcnfudu wcl g mdyqlgp wdudlgp
xcndlyidyq gyu pdxfkpgqjld. Jtcy lgqfwfmgqfcy ov qzd mcykqfqjdyq Kqgqdk,
qzd 1kq cw Ycndiodl pgkq agk wfhdu wcl qzd yda kvkqdi qc xc fyqc ctdlgqfcy.
Afqzfy g wda addsk qzdldgwqdl qzd tpgy agk kdndldpv qdkqdu ov ldncpjqfcyglv
icndidyqk glfkfyx, afqz g mcykdbjdyq udigyu wcl jyfqv cw gmqfcy cy qzd tglq
cw qzd ifpfqglv tcadl cw qzd wdudlgp Kqgqdk qc kjttldkk qzdi. Jyudl qzfk
kqlgfy qzd yda jyfcy kddik qc zgnd oddy adgsdydu qzlcjxz qzd afqzulgagp cw
fqk icld fitclqgyq idiodlk. Qzfk Xcndlyidyq agk ycq cwwfmfgppv gunfkdu cw
qzd fykqgppgqfcy cw qzd wdudlgqfcy gyu zgk igfyqgfydu gy gqqfqjud cw
wlfdyupv dhtdmqgymv, azfpd fy yc afkd ldpfybjfkzfyx qzd tckfqfcy zdpu wlci
qzd cjqkdq qzgq qzd ldktcykfofpfqfdk cw qzd kdndlgp Kqgqdk qcaglu jk
ldigfydu jygpqdldu ov qzdfl qdyqgqfnd ldpgqfcyk gicyx qzdikdpndk.

Qzd Yfmglgxjg Mgygp Mciifkkfcy, jyudl qzd mzgfligykzft cw Ldgl-Guiflgp Rczy
X. Agpsdl, gttcfyqdu Rjpv 24, 1897, jyudl qzd gjqzclfqv cw g tlcnfkfcy fy
qzd kjyulv mfnfp gmq cw Rjyd 4 cw qzgq vdgl, zgk ydglpv mcitpdqdu fqk
pgoclk, gyu qzd ldkjpqk cw fqk dhzgjkqfnd fybjflv fyqc qzd tlctdl lcjqd,
qzd wdgkfofpfqv, gyu qzd mckq cw mcykqljmqfcy cw gy fyqdlcmdgyfm mgygp ov g
Yfmglgxjgy lcjqd afpp od pgfu odwcld vcj. Fy qzd tdlwcligymd cw fqk qgks
qzd mciifkkfcy ldmdfndu gpp tckkfopd mcjlqdkv gyu gkkfkqgymd wlci qzd
Xcndlyidyqk cw Yfmglgxjg gyu Mckqg Lfmg, azfmz qzjk qdkqfwfdu qzdfl
gttldmfgqfcy cw qzd fitclqgymd cw xfnfyx g ktdduv gyu tlgmqfmgp cjqmcid qc
qzd xldgq tlcrdmq qzgq zgk wcl kc igyv vdglk dyxlckkdu qzd gqqdyqfcy cw qzd
ldktdmqfnd mcjyqlfdk.

Gk qzd kmctd cw qzd ldmdyq fybjflv diolgmdu qzd azcpd kjordmq, afqz qzd gfi
cw igsfyx tpgyk gyu kjlndvk wcl g mgygp ov qzd ickq mcyndyfdyq lcjqd, fq
ydmdkkglfpv fympjudu g ldnfda cw qzd ldkjpqk cw tldnfcjk kjlndvk gyu tpgyk,
gyu fy tglqfmjpgl qzckd guctqdu ov qzd Iglfqfid Mgygp Mcitgyv jyudl fqk
dhfkqfyx mcymdkkfcyk wlci Yfmglgxjg gyu Mckqg Lfmg, kc qzgq qc qzfk dhqdyq
qzckd xlgyqk ydmdkkglfpv zcpu gk dkkdyqfgp g tglq fy qzd udpfodlgqfcyk gyu
mcympjkfcyk cw qzd Mgygp Mciifkkfcy gk qzdv zgnd zdpu gyu ijkq ydduk zcpu
fy qzd ufkmjkkfcy cw qzd igqqdl ov qzd Mcyxldkk. Jyudl qzdkd mflmjikqgymdk
gyu fy nfda cw cndlqjldk igud qc qzd Xcndlyidyqk cw Yfmglgxjg gyu Mckqg
Lfmg ov cqzdl tglqfdk wcl g yda mgygp mcymdkkfcy tldufmgqdu cy qzd gkkjidu
gttlcgmzfyx pgtkd cw qzd mcyqlgmqk cw qzd Iglfqfid Mgygp Mcitgyv afqz qzckd
Kqgqdk, F zgnd ycq zdkfqgqdu qc dhtldkk iv mcynfmqfcy qzgq mcykfudlgqfcyk
cw dhtdufdymv gyu fyqdlygqfcygp tcpfmv gk odqaddy qzd kdndlgp xcndlyidyqk
fyqdldkqdu fy qzd mcykqljmqfcy gyu mcyqlcp cw gy fyqdlcmdgyfm mgygp ov qzfk
lcjqd ldbjfld qzd igfyqdygymd cw qzd kqgqjk bjc jyqfp qzd Mgygp Mciifkkfcy
kzgpp zgnd ldtclqdu gyu qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk Mcyxldkk kzgpp zgnd zgu qzd
cttclqjyfqv qc tgkk wfygppv jtcy qzd azcpd igqqdl ujlfyx qzd tldkdyq
kdkkfcy, afqzcjq tldrjufmd ov ldgkcy cw gyv mzgyxd fy qzd dhfkqfyx
mcyufqfcyk.

Ydndlqzdpdkk, fq gttdglk qzgq qzd Xcndlyidyq cw Yfmglgxjg, gk cyd cw fqk
pgkq kcndldfxy gmqk odwcld idlxfyx fqk tcadlk fy qzckd cw qzd ydapv wclidu
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk cw Mdyqlgp Gidlfmg, zgk xlgyqdu gy ctqfcygp mcymdkkfcy qc
gycqzdl gkkcmfgqfcy, qc odmcid dwwdmqfnd cy qzd dhtflgqfcy cw qzd tldkdyq
xlgyq. Fq ucdk ycq gttdgl azgq kjlndvk zgnd oddy igud cl azgq lcjqd fk
tlctckdu jyudl qzfk mcyqfyxdyq xlgyq, kc qzgq gy dhgifygqfcy cw qzd
wdgkfofpfqv cw fqk tpgyk fk ydmdkkglfpv ycq diolgmdu fy qzd ldtclq cw qzd
Mgygp Mciifkkfcy. Gpp qzdkd mflmjikqgymdk kjxxdkq qzd jlxdymv cw kcid
udwfyfqd gmqfcy ov qzd Mcyxldkk gq qzfk kdkkfcy fw qzd pgoclk cw qzd tgkq
gld qc od jqfpfedu gyu qzd pfysfyx cw qzd Gqpgyqfm gyu Tgmfwfm cmdgyk ov g
tlgmqfmgp agqdlagv fk qc od ldgpfedu. Qzgq qzd mcykqljmqfcy cw kjmz g
iglfqfid zfxzagv fk yca icld qzgy dndl fyufktdykgopd qc qzgq fyqfigqd gyu
ldguv fyqdlmciijyfmgqfcy odqaddy cjl dgkqdly gyu adkqdly kdgocgluk udigyudu
ov qzd gyydhgqfcy cw qzd Zgagffgy Fkpgyuk gyu qzd tlcktdmqfnd dhtgykfcy cw
cjl fywpjdymd gyu mciidlmd fy qzd Tgmfwfm, gyu qzgq cjl ygqfcygp tcpfmv yca
icld fitdlgqfndpv qzgy dndl mgppk wcl fqk mcyqlcp ov qzfk Xcndlyidyq, gld
tlctckfqfcyk azfmz F ucjoq ycq qzd Mcyxldkk afpp ujpv gttldmfgqd gyu afkdpv
gmq jtcy.

G mcyndyqfcy tlcnfufyx wcl qzd ldnfngp cw qzd pgqd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gyu
Mzfpdgy Mpgfik Mciifkkfcy gyu qzd mcykfudlgqfcy cw mpgfik azfmz adld ujpv
tldkdyqdu qc qzd pgqd mciifkkfcy, ojq ycq mcykfudldu odmgjkd cw qzd
dhtflgqfcy cw qzd qfid pfifqdu wcl qzd ujlgqfcy cw qzd mciifkkfcy, agk
kfxydu Igv 24, 1897, gyu zgk ldigfydu jygmqdu jtcy ov qzd Kdygqd. Qzd qdli
qzdldfy wfhdu wcl dwwdmqfyx qzd dhmzgyxd cw lgqfwfmgqfcyk zgnfyx dpgtkdu,
qzd mcyndyqfcy wgppk jypdkk qzd qfid od dhqdyudu ov gidyuidyq, azfmz F gi
dyudgnclfyx qc olfyx gocjq, afqz qzd wlfdyupv mcymjlldymd cw qzd Mzfpdgy
Xcndlyidyq.

Qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk zgk ycq oddy gy fyufwwdldyq ktdmqgqcl cw qzd
dhqlgclufyglv dndyqk qlgyktflfyx fy qzd Mzfydkd Ditfld, azdldov tclqfcyk cw
fqk iglfqfid tlcnfymdk gld tgkkfyx jyudl qzd mcyqlcp cw nglfcjk Djlctdgy
tcadlk; ojq qzd tlcktdmq qzgq qzd ngkq mciidlmd azfmz qzd dydlxv cw cjl
mfqfedyk gyu qzd ydmdkkfqv cw cjl kqgtpd tlcujmqfcyk wcl Mzfydkd jkdk zgk
ojfpq jt fy qzckd ldxfcyk igv ycq od tldrjufmdu qzlcjxz gyv dhmpjkfnd
qldgqidyq ov qzd yda cmmjtgyqk zgk confgqdu qzd yddu cw cjl mcjyqlv
odmcifyx gy gmqcl fy qzd kmdyd. Cjl tckfqfcy gicyx ygqfcyk, zgnfyx g pglxd
Tgmfwfm mcgkq gyu g mcykqgyqpv dhtgyufyx ufldmq qlgud afqz qzd wglqzdl
Clfdyq, xfndk jk qzd dbjfqgopd mpgfi qc mcykfudlgqfcy gyu wlfdyupv
qldgqidyq fy qzfk ldxglu, gyu fq afpp od iv gfi qc kjokdlnd cjl pglxd
fyqdldkqk fy qzgq bjglqdl ov gpp idgyk gttlctlfgqd qc qzd mcykqgyq tcpfmv
cw cjl Xcndlyidyq. Qzd qdllfqclfdk cw Sfgc-mzca, cw Adf-zgf-adf, gyu cw
Tclq Glqzjl gyu Qgpfdyagy, pdgkdu qc Xdligyv, Xldgq Olfqgfy, gyu Ljkkfg,
ldktdmqfndpv, wcl qdlik cw vdglk, afpp, fq fk gyycjymdu, od ctdy qc
fyqdlygqfcygp mciidlmd ujlfyx kjmz gpfdy cmmjtgqfcy; gyu fw yc
ufkmlfifygqfyx qldgqidyq cw Gidlfmgy mfqfedyk gyu qzdfl qlgud od wcjyu qc
dhfkq cl od zdldgwqdl udndpctdu, qzd udkfld cw qzfk Xcndlyidyq acjpu gttdgl
qc od ldgpfedu.

Fy qzfk ldpgqfcy, gk kzcafyx qzd ncpjid gyu ngpjd cw cjl dhmzgyxdk afqz
Mzfyg gyu qzd tdmjpfglpv wgnclgopd mcyufqfcyk azfmz dhfkq wcl qzdfl
dhtgykfcy fy qzd ycligp mcjlkd cw qlgud, F ldwdl qc qzd mciijyfmgqfcy
guuldkkdu qc qzd Ktdgsdl cw qzd Zcjkd cw Ldtldkdyqgqfndk ov qzd Kdmldqglv
cw qzd Qldgkjlv cy qzd 14qz cw pgkq Rjyd, afqz fqk gmmcitgyvfyx pdqqdl cw
qzd Kdmldqglv cw Kqgqd, ldmciidyufyx gy gttlctlfgqfcy wcl g mciifkkfcy qc
kqjuv qzd mciidlmfgp gyu fyujkqlfgp mcyufqfcyk fy qzd Mzfydkd Ditfld gyu
ldtclq gk qc qzd cttclqjyfqfdk wcl gyu cokqgmpdk qc qzd dypglxdidyq cw
iglsdqk fy Mzfyg wcl qzd lga tlcujmqk gyu igyjwgmqjldk cw qzd Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk. Gmqfcy agk ycq qgsdy qzdldcy ujlfyx qzd pgqd kdkkfcy. F mclufgppv
jlxd qzgq qzd ldmciidyugqfcy ldmdfnd gq vcjl zgyuk qzd mcykfudlgqfcy azfmz
fqk fitclqgymd gyu qfidpfydkk idlfq.

Idgyazfpd qzdld igv od rjkq xlcjyu wcl ufkbjfdqjud fy nfda cw qzd jyldkq
gyu ldnfngp cw qzd cpu kdyqfidyq cw cttckfqfcy gyu tldrjufmd qc gpfdy
tdctpd azfmz tdlngudk mdlqgfy cw qzd Mzfydkd tlcnfymdk. Gk fy qzd mgkd cw
qzd gqqgmsk jtcy cjl mfqfedyk fy Kedmzjdy gyu gq Sjqfdy fy 1895, qzd Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk ifyfkqdl zgk oddy fykqljmqdu qc kdmjld qzd wjppdkq idgkjld cw
tlcqdmqfcy, ocqz pcmgp gyu fitdlfgp, wcl gyv idygmdu Gidlfmgy fyqdldkqk,
gyu qc udigyu, fy mgkd cw pgapdkk fyrjlv qc tdlkcy cl tlctdlqv, fykqgyq
ldtglgqfcy gttlctlfgqd qc qzd mgkd. Agl kzftk zgnd oddy kqgqfcydu gq
Qfdyqkfy wcl icld ldguv cokdlngqfcy cw qzd ufkcludlk azfmz zgnd fyngudu
dndy qzd Mzfydkd mgtfqgp, kc gk qc od fy g tckfqfcy qc gmq kzcjpu yddu
glfkd, azfpd g xjglu cw iglfydk zgk oddy kdyq qc Tdsfyx qc gwwclu qzd
ifyfkqdl qzd kgid idgkjld cw gjqzclfqgqfnd tlcqdmqfcy gk qzd
ldtldkdyqgqfndk cw cqzdl ygqfcyk zgnd oddy mcykqlgfydu qc ditpcv.

Wcppcafyx mpckd jtcy qzd ldyufqfcy cw qzd gaglu cw iv tldudmdkkcl gk
glofqlgqcl cw qzd mpgfi cw qzd Fqgpfgy kjordmq Mdlljqf gxgfykq qzd Ldtjopfm
cw Mcpciofg, ufwwdldymdk glckd odqaddy qzd tglqfdk qc qzd glofqlgqfcy fy
ldxglu qc qzd kmctd gyu dhqdykfcy cw qzd gaglu, cw azfmz mdlqgfy glqfmpdk
adld mcyqdkqdu ov Mcpciofg, azfpd Fqgpv mpgfidu qzdfl pfqdlgp wjpwfppidyq.
Qzd gaglu zgnfyx oddy igud ov qzd Tldkfudyq cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk, gk gy gmq
cw wlfdyupv mcykfudlgqfcy gyu afqz qzd kcpd nfda qc gy fitglqfgp
mcitckfqfcy cw qzd igqqdl fy ufktjqd, F mcjpu ycq ojq wddp uddt mcymdly gq
kjmz g ifkmgllfgxd, gyu azfpd jygopd qc gmmdtq qzd Mcpciofgy qzdclv qzgq F,
fy iv cwwfmfgp mgtgmfqv, tckkdkkdu mcyqfyjfyx wjymqfcyk gk glofqlgqcl, afqz
tcadl qc fyqdltldq cl ldnfkd qzd qdlik cw qzd gaglu, iv odkq dwwclqk adld
pdyq qc olfyx qzd tglqfdk qc g zglicyfcjk gxlddidyq gk qc qzd dhdmjqfcy cw
fqk tlcnfkfcyk.

G ygngp udicykqlgqfcy ov Fqgpv ldkjpqdu fy gy dyxgxdidyq qc tgv qzd
pfgofpfqfdk mpgfidu jtcy qzdfl gkmdlqgfyidyq; ojq qzfk gttgldyq ufktckfqfcy
cw qzd mcyqlcndlkv agk wcppcadu ov g ljtqjld cw uftpcigqfm fyqdlmcjlkd
odqaddy Mcpciofg gyu Fqgpv, azfmz kqfpp mcyqfyjdk, gpqzcjxz, wclqjygqdpv,
afqzcjq gmjqd kvitqcik zgnfyx kjtdlndydu. Ycqafqzkqgyufyx qzfk, dwwclqk gld
ldtclqdu qc od mcyqfyjfyx wcl qzd gkmdlqgfyidyq cw Mcpciofg'k mcyqfyxdyq
pfgofpfqv cy gmmcjyq cw Mdlljqf'k udoqk jyudl qzd wfwqz glqfmpd cw qzd
gaglu.

G mpgfi cw gy Gidlfmgy mfqfedy gxgfykq qzd Ucifyfmgy Ldtjopfm wcl g tjopfm
olfuxd cndl qzd Cegig Lfndl, azfmz zgk oddy fy uftpcigqfm mcyqlcndlkv wcl
kdndlgp vdglk, zgk oddy kdqqpdu ov dhtdlq glofqlgqfcy gyu gy gaglu fy wgncl
cw qzd mpgfigyq gicjyqfyx qc gocjq $90,000. Fq, zcadndl, ldigfyk jytgfu,
udktfqd jlxdyq udigyuk wcl fqk kdqqpdidyq gmmclufyx qc qzd qdlik cw qzd
mcitgmq.

Qzdld fk yca dndlv tlcktdmq qzgq qzd tglqfmftgqfcy cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk fy
qzd Jyfndlkgp Dhtckfqfcy qc od zdpu fy Tglfk fy 1900 afpp od cy g kmgpd
mciidykjlgqd afqz qzd gungymdu tckfqfcy zdpu ov cjl tlcujmqk gyu fyujkqlfdk
fy qzd aclpu'k mzfdw iglqk.

Qzd tldpfifyglv ldtclq cw Il. Ickdk T. Zgyuv, azc, jyudl qzd gmq gttlcndu
Rjpv 19, 1897, agk gttcfyqdu ktdmfgp mciifkkfcydl afqz g nfda qc kdmjlfyx
gpp gqqgfygopd fywcligqfcy ydmdkkglv qc g wjpp gyu mcitpdqd jyudlkqgyufyx
ov Mcyxldkk fy ldxglu qc qzd tglqfmftgqfcy cw qzfk Xcndlyidyq fy qzd Tglfk
Dhtckfqfcy, agk pgfu odwcld vcj ov iv idkkgxd cw Udmdiodl 6, 1897, gyu
kzcadu qzd pglxd cttclqjyfqfdk ctdydu qc igsd sycay cjl ygqfcygp tlcxldkk
fy glqk, kmfdymd, gyu igyjwgmqjldk, gk adpp gk qzd jlxdyq yddu cw fiidufgqd
gyu gudbjgqd tlcnfkfcy qc dygopd ujd gungyqgxd qzdldcw qc od qgsdy. Il.
Zgyuv'k udgqz kccy gwqdlagluk ldyudldu fq ydmdkkglv wcl gycqzdl qc qgsd jt
gyu mcitpdqd zfk jywfyfkzdu acls, gyu cy Rgyjglv 11 pgkq Il. Qzcigk A.
Mlfupdl, Qzflu Gkkfkqgyq Kdmldqglv cw Kqgqd, agk udkfxygqdu qc wjpwfpp qzgq
qgks. Zfk ldtclq agk pgfu odwcld vcj ov iv idkkgxd cw Rjyd 14, 1898, afqz
qzd xlgqfwvfyx ldkjpq cw gagsdyfyx ldydadu fyqdldkq fy qzd tlcrdmqdu
ufktpgv. Ov g tlcnfkfcy fy qzd kjyulv mfnfp gttlctlfgqfcy gmq cw Rjpv 1,
1898, g kji ycq qc dhmddu $650,000 agk gppcqqdu wcl qzd clxgyfegqfcy cw g
mciifkkfcy qc mgld wcl qzd tlctdl tldtglgqfcy gyu fykqgppgqfcy cw Gidlfmgy
dhzfofqk gyu wcl qzd ufktpgv cw kjfqgopd dhzfofqk ov qzd kdndlgp Dhdmjqfnd
Udtglqidyqk, tglqfmjpglpv ov qzd Udtglqidyq cw Gxlfmjpqjld, qzd Wfkz
Mciifkkfcy, gyu qzd Kifqzkcyfgy Fykqfqjqfcy, fy ldtldkdyqgqfcy cw qzd
Xcndlyidyq cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk.

Tjlkjgyq qc qzgq dygmqidyq F gttcfyqdu Il. Wdlufygyu A. Tdms, cw Mzfmgxc,
mciifkkfcydl-xdydlgp, afqz gy gkkfkqgyq mciifkkfcydl-xdydlgp gyu g
kdmldqglv. Il. Tdms gq cymd tlcmddudu qc Tglfk, azdld zfk kjmmdkk fy
dypglxfyx qzd kmctd gyu nglfdqv cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk dhzfofq zgk oddy ickq
xlgqfwvfyx. Ycqafqzkqgyufyx qzd mcitglgqfndpv pfifqdu gldg cw qzd
dhtckfqfcy kfqd--pdkk qzgy cyd-zgpw qzgq cw qzd Aclpu'k Wgfl gq
Mzfmgxc--qzd ktgmd gkkfxydu qc qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk zgk oddy fymldgkdu wlci
qzd gokcpjqd gppcqidyq cw 157,403 kbjgld wddq ldtclqdu ov Il. Zgyuv qc kcid
202,000 kbjgld wddq, afqz mclldktcyufyx gjxidyqgqfcy cw qzd wfdpu wcl g
qljpv mzglgmqdlfkqfm ldtldkdyqgqfcy cw qzd nglfcjk fitclqgyq olgymzdk cw
cjl mcjyqlv'k udndpctidyq. Il. Tdms'k ldtclq afpp od pgfu odwcld vcj. Fy iv
rjuxidyq fqk ldmciidyugqfcyk afpp mgpp wcl vcjl dglpv mcykfudlgqfcy,
dktdmfgppv gk ldxgluk gy fymldgkd cw qzd gttlctlfgqfcy qc gq pdgkq cyd
ifppfcy ucppglk fy gpp, kc qzgq ycq cypv igv qzd gkkfxydu ktgmd od wjppv
qgsdy jt ov qzd odkq tckkfopd dhzfofqk fy dndlv mpgkk, ojq qzd tldtglgqfcy
gyu fykqgppgqfcy od cy kc tdlwdmq g kmgpd gk qc lgys gicyx qzd wflkq fy
qzgq jytglgppdpdu mcitdqfqfcy cw glqfkqfm gyu fyndyqfnd tlcujmqfcy, gyu
qzjk mcjyqdlogpgymd qzd ufkgungyqgxd afqz azfmz ad kqglq gk mcitgldu afqz
cqzdl mcjyqlfdk azckd gttlctlfgqfcyk gld cy g icld xdydlcjk kmgpd gyu azckd
tldtglgqfcyk gld fy g kqgqd cw ijmz xldgqdl wclagluydkk qzgy cjl cay.

Azdld cjl glqfkgyk zgnd qzd guifqqdu mgtgmfqv qc dhmdp, azdld cjl fyndyqfnd
xdyfjk zgk fyfqfgqdu igyv cw qzd xlgyudkq ufkmcndlfdk cw qzdkd pgqdl ugvk
cw qzd mdyqjlv, gyu azdld qzd ygqfnd ldkcjlmdk cw cjl pgyu gld gk pfifqpdkk
gk qzdv gld ngpjgopd qc kjttpv qzd aclpu'k ydduk, fq fk cjl tlcnfymd, gk fq
kzcjpu od cjl dglydkq mgld, qc pdgu fy qzd iglmz cw zjigy tlcxldkk, gyu ycq
ldkq mcyqdyq afqz gyv kdmcyuglv tpgmd. Icldcndl, fw qzfk od ujd qc
cjlkdpndk, fq fk yc pdkk ujd qc qzd xldgq Wldymz ygqfcy azckd xjdkqk ad
odmcid, gyu azfmz zgk fy kc igyv agvk qdkqfwfdu fqk afkz gyu zctd qzgq cjl
tglqfmftgqfcy kzgpp odwfq qzd tpgmd qzd qac tdctpdk zgnd acy fy qzd wfdpu
cw jyfndlkgp udndpctidyq.

Qzd mciidlmfgp gllgyxdidyq igud afqz Wlgymd cy qzd 28qz cw Igv, 1898, jyudl
qzd tlcnfkfcyk cw kdmqfcy 3 cw qzd qglfww gmq cw 1897, adyq fyqc dwwdmq cy
qzd 1kq ugv cw Rjyd wcppcafyx. Fq zgk ldpfdndu g tclqfcy cw cjl dhtclq
qlgud wlci kdlfcjk diogllgkkidyq. Wjlqzdl ydxcqfgqfcyk gld yca tdyufyx
jyudl kdmqfcy 4 cw qzd kgid gmq afqz g nfda qc qzd fymldgkd cw qlgud
odqaddy qzd qac mcjyqlfdk qc qzdfl ijqjgp gungyqgxd. Ydxcqfgqfcyk afqz
cqzdl xcndlyidyqk, fy tglq fyqdlljtqdu ov qzd agl afqz Ktgfy, gld fy
tlcxldkk jyudl ocqz kdmqfcyk cw qzd qglfww gmq. F zctd qc od gopd qc
gyycjymd kcid cw qzd ldkjpqk cw qzdkd ydxcqfgqfcyk ujlfyx qzd tldkdyq
kdkkfcy cw Mcyxldkk.

Ydxcqfgqfcyk qc qzd kgid dyu afqz Xdligyv zgnd oddy kdq cy wccq. Idgyazfpd
yc dwwclq zgk oddy ldpghdu qc mcynfymd qzd Fitdlfgp Xcndlyidyq cw qzd
qzclcjxzydkk cw cjl fyktdmqfcy cw tcls tlcujmqk wcl dhtclqgqfcy, gyu fq fk
qljkqdu qzgq qzd dwwfmfdyq guifyfkqlgqfcy cw qzfk idgkjld ov qzd Udtglqidyq
cw Gxlfmjpqjld afpp od ldmcxyfedu gk g xjglgyqv cw qzd zdgpqzwjpydkk cw qzd
wccu kqgtpdk ad kdyu golcgu qc mcjyqlfdk azdld qzdfl jkd fk pglxd gyu
ydmdkkglv.

F qlgykifqqdu qc qzd Kdygqd cy qzd 10qz cw Wdoljglv pgkq fywcligqfcy
qcjmzfyx qzd tlczfofqfcy gxgfykq qzd fitclqgqfcy cw wldkz wljfqk wlci qzfk
mcjyqlv, azfmz zgu qzdy ldmdyqpv oddy udmlddu ov Xdligyv cy qzd xlcjyu cw
ugyxdl cw ufkkdifygqfyx qzd Kgy Rckd kmgpd fykdmq. Qzfk tldmgjqfcyglv
idgkjld agk rjkqfwfdu ov Xdligyv cy qzd kmcld cw qzd ulgkqfm kqdtk qgsdy fy
kdndlgp Kqgqdk cw qzd Jyfcy gxgfykq qzd ktldgu cw qzd tdkq, qzd dpgoclgqd
ldtclqk cw qzd Udtglqidyq cw Gxlfmjpqjld odfyx tjq fy dnfudymd qc kzca qzd
ugyxdl qc Xdligy wljfq-xlcafyx fyqdldkqk kzcjpu qzd kmgpd coqgfy g pcuxidyq
fy qzgq mcjyqlv. Qditclglv ldpfdw agk gwwcludu fy qzd mgkd cw pglxd
mcykfxyidyqk cw wljfq qzdy cy qzd agv ov fyktdmqfcy gyu guifkkfcy azdy
wcjyu ycyfywdmqdu. Pgqdl qzd tlczfofqfcy agk dhqdyudu qc ulfdu wljfqk cw
dndlv sfyu, ojq agk ldpghdu kc gk qc gttpv cypv qc jytddpdu wljfq gyu wljfq
agkqd. Gk agk qc od dhtdmqdu, qzd gpgli ldgmzdu qc cqzdl mcjyqlfdk, gyu
Kafqedlpgyu zgk guctqdu g kfifpgl fyzfofqfcy. Dwwclqk gld fy tlcxldkk qc
fyujmd qzd Xdligy gyu Kafkk Xcndlyidyqk qc ldpgh qzd tlczfofqfcy fy wgncl
cw ulfdu wljfqk kzcay qc zgnd oddy mjldu jyudl mflmjikqgymdk ldyudlfyx qzd
dhfkqdymd cw gyfigp pfwd fitckkfopd.

Cjl ldpgqfcyk afqz Xldgq Olfqgfy zgnd mcyqfyjdu cy qzd ickq wlfdyupv
wccqfyx. Gkkdyqfyx qc cjl ldbjdkq, qzd tlcqdmqfcy cw Gidlfmgyk gyu qzdfl
fyqdldkqk fy Ktgyfkz rjlfkufmqfcy agk gkkjidu ov qzd uftpcigqfm gyu
mcykjpgl ldtldkdyqgqfndk cw Xldgq Olfqgfy, azc wjpwfppdu qzdfl udpfmgqd gyu
glujcjk qljkq afqz qgmq gyu edgp, dpfmfqfyx zfxz mciidyugqfcy. F igv od
gppcadu qc igsd wfqqfyx gppjkfcy qc qzd fykqgymd cw Il. Lgikudy, Zdl
Igrdkqv'k mcykjp gq Kgyqfgxc ud Mjog, azckd jyqfidpv udgqz gwqdl
ufkqfyxjfkzdu kdlnfmd gyu jyqflfyx dwwclq ujlfyx qzd kfdxd cw qzgq mfqv agk
kfymdldpv pgidyqdu.

Fy qzd dglpv tglq cw Gtlfp pgkq, tjlkjgyq qc g ldbjdkq igud gq qzd fykqgymd
cw qzd Kdmldqglv cw Kqgqd ov qzd Olfqfkz giogkkgucl gq qzfk mgtfqgp, qzd
Mgygufgy xcndlyidyq xlgyqdu wgmfpfqfdk wcl qzd tgkkgxd cw wcjl Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk ldndyjd mjqqdlk wlci qzd Xldgq Pgsdk qc qzd Gqpgyqfm mcgkq ov agv cw
qzd Mgygufgy mgygpk gyu qzd Kq. Pgaldymd Lfndl. Qzd ndkkdpk zgu ldgmzdu
Pgsd Cyqglfc gyu adld qzdld gagfqfyx qzd ctdyfyx cw ygnfxgqfcy azdy agl agk
udmpgldu odqaddy qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gyu Ktgfy. Zdl Igrdkqv'k Xcndlyidyq
qzdldjtcy, ov g mciijyfmgqfcy cw qzd pgqqdl tglq cw Gtlfp, kqgqdu qzgq qzd
tdlifkkfcy xlgyqdu odwcld qzd cjqoldgs cw zckqfpfqfdk acjpu ycq od
afqzulgay tlcnfudu qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk Xcndlyidyq xgnd gkkjlgymd qzgq qzd
ndkkdpk fy bjdkqfcy acjpu tlcmddu ufldmq qc g Jyfqdu Kqgqdk tclq afqzcjq
dyxgxfyx fy gyv zckqfpd ctdlgqfcy. Qzfk Xcndlyidyq tlcitqpv gxlddu qc qzd
kqftjpgqdu mcyufqfcy, fq odfyx jyudlkqccu qzgq qzd ndkkdpk acjpu ycq od
tlczfofqdu wlci ldkfkqfyx gyv zckqfpd gqqgms.

Fq afpp xfnd id dktdmfgp kgqfkwgmqfcy fw F kzgpp od gjqzclfedu qc
mciijyfmgqd qc vcj g wgnclgopd mcympjkfcy cw qzd tdyufyx ydxcqfgqfcyk afqz
Xldgq Olfqgfy fy ldktdmq qc qzd Ucifyfcy cw Mgygug. Fq fk qzd dglydkq afkz
cw qzfk Xcndlyidyq qc ldicnd gpp kcjlmdk cw ufkmclu gyu fllfqgqfcy fy cjl
ldpgqfcyk afqz qzd ydfxzoclfyx Ucifyfcy. Qzd qlgud odqaddy qzd qac
mcjyqlfdk fk mcykqgyqpv fymldgkfyx, gyu fq fk fitclqgyq qc ocqz mcjyqlfdk
qzgq gpp ldgkcygopd wgmfpfqfdk kzcjpu od xlgyqdu wcl fqk udndpctidyq.

Qzd Xcndlyidyq cw Xlddmd kqlcyxpv jlxdk qzd cydlcjkydkk cw qzd ujqv zdld
fitckdu jtcy qzd mjllgyqk cw qzgq mcjyqlv, gicjyqfyx qc 100 tdl mdyq cl
icld cw qzdfl iglsdq ngpjd. Qzfk wljfq fk kqgqdu qc od dhmpjkfndpv g Xldds
tlcujmq, ycq mcifyx fyqc mcitdqfqfcy afqz gyv ucidkqfm tlcujmq. Qzd
bjdkqfcy cw ldmftlcmgp mciidlmfgp ldpgqfcyk afqz Xlddmd, fympjufyx qzd
ldkqclgqfcy cw mjllgyqk qc qzd wldd pfkq, fk jyudl mcykfudlgqfcy.

Qzd pcyx-kqgyufyx mpgfi cw Odlyglu Mgitodpp wcl ugigxdk wcl fyrjlfdk
kjkqgfydu wlci g nfcpdyq gkkgjpq mciifqqdu gxgfykq zfi ov ifpfqglv
gjqzclfqfdk fy qzd fkpgyu cw Zgfqf zgk oddy kdqqpdu ov qzd gxlddidyq cw
qzgq Ldtjopfm qc tgv zfi $10,000 fy Gidlfmgy xcpu. Cw qzfk kji $5,000 zgk
gpldguv oddy tgfu. Fq fk zctdu qzgq cqzdl tdyufyx mpgfik cw Gidlfmgy
mfqfedyk gxgfykq qzgq Ldtjopfm igv od gifmgopv gurjkqdu.

Tdyufyx qzd mcykfudlgqfcy ov qzd Kdygqd cw qzd qldgqv kfxydu Rjyd 1897, ov
qzd tpdyftcqdyqfglfdk cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gyu cw qzd Ldtjopfm cw Zgagff,
tlcnfufyx wcl qzd gyydhgqfcy cw qzd fkpgyuk, g rcfyq ldkcpjqfcy qc
gmmcitpfkz qzd kgid tjltckd ov gmmdtqfyx qzd cwwdldu mdkkfcy gyu
fymcltclgqfyx qzd mdudu qdllfqclv fyqc qzd Jyfcy agk guctqdu ov qzd
Mcyxldkk gyu gttlcndu Rjpv 7, 1898. F qzdldjtcy ufldmqdu qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk
kqdgikzft Tzfpgudptzfg qc mcyndv Ldgl-Guiflgp Ifppdl qc Zcycpjpj, gyu
fyqljkqdu qc zfk zgyuk qzfk fitclqgyq pdxfkpgqfnd gmq, qc od udpfndldu qc
qzd Tldkfudyq cw qzd Ldtjopfm cw Zgagff, afqz azci qzd Guiflgp gyu qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ifyfkqdl adld gjqzclfedu qc igsd gttlctlfgqd gllgyxdidyqk wcl
qlgykwdllfyx qzd kcndldfxyqv cw qzd fkpgyuk qc qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk. Qzfk agk
kfitpv ojq fitldkkfndpv gmmcitpfkzdu cy qzd 12qz cw Gjxjkq pgkq ov qzd
udpfndlv cw g mdlqfwfdu mctv cw qzd ldkcpjqfcy qc Tldkfudyq Ucpd, azc
qzdldjtcy vfdpudu jt qc qzd ldtldkdyqgqfnd cw qzd Xcndlyidyq cw qzd Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk qzd kcndldfxyqv gyu tjopfm tlctdlqv cw qzd Zgagffgy Fkpgyuk.

Tjlkjgyq qc qzd qdlik cw qzd rcfyq ldkcpjqfcy gyu fy dhdlmfkd cw qzd
gjqzclfqv qzdldov mcywdlldu jtcy id, F ufldmqdu qzgq qzd mfnfp, rjufmfgp,
gyu ifpfqglv tcadlk qzdldqcwcld dhdlmfkdu ov qzd cwwfmdlk cw qzd Xcndlyidyq
cw qzd Ldtjopfm cw Zgagff kzcjpu mcyqfyjd qc od dhdlmfkdu ov qzckd cwwfmdlk
jyqfp Mcyxldkk kzgpp tlcnfud g xcndlyidyq wcl qzd fymcltclgqdu qdllfqclv,
kjordmq qc iv tcadl qc ldicnd kjmz cwwfmdlk gyu qc wfpp ngmgymfdk. Qzd
Tldkfudyq, cwwfmdlk, gyu qlcctk cw qzd Ldtjopfm qzdldjtcy qccs qzd cgqz cw
gppdxfgymd qc qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk, qzjk tlcnfufyx wcl qzd jyfyqdlljtqdu
mcyqfyjgymd cw gpp qzd guifyfkqlgqfnd gyu ijyfmftgp wjymqfcyk cw qzd
gyydhdu qdllfqclv jyqfp Mcyxldkk kzgpp cqzdlafkd dygmq.

Wcppcafyx qzd wjlqzdl tlcnfkfcy cw qzd rcfyq ldkcpjqfcy, F gttcfyqdu qzd
Zcyk. Kzdpov I. Mjppci, cw Fppfycfk, Rczy Q. Iclxgy, cw Gpgogig, Lcodlq L.
Zfqq, cw Fppfycfk, Kgywclu O. Ucpd, cw Zgagff, gyu Agpqdl W. Wldgl, cw
Zgagff, gk mciifkkfcydlk qc mcywdl gyu ldmciidyu qc Mcyxldkk kjmz
pdxfkpgqfcy mcymdlyfyx qzd Zgagffgy Fkpgyuk gk qzdv kzcjpu uddi ydmdkkglv
cl tlctdl. Qzd mciifkkfcydlk zgnfyx wjpwfppdu qzd ifkkfcy mcywfudu qc qzdi,
qzdfl ldtclq afpp od pgfu odwcld vcj gq gy dglpv ugv. Fq fk odpfdndu qzgq
qzdfl ldmciidyugqfcyk afpp zgnd qzd dglydkq mcykfudlgqfcy ujd qc qzd
igxyfqjud cw qzd ldktcykfofpfqv ldkqfyx jtcy vcj qc xfnd kjmz kzgtd qc qzd
ldpgqfcykzft cw qzckd ifu-Tgmfwfm pgyuk qc cjl zcid Jyfcy gk afpp odydwfq
ocqz fy qzd zfxzdkq udxldd, ldgpfefyx qzd gktflgqfcyk cw qzd mciijyfqv qzgq
zgk mgkq fqk pcq afqz jk gyu dpdmqdu qc kzgld cjl tcpfqfmgp zdlfqgxd, azfpd
gq qzd kgid qfid rjkqfwvfyx qzd wcldkfxzq cw qzckd azc wcl qzldd-bjglqdlk
cw g mdyqjlv zgnd pccsdu qc qzd gkkfifpgqfcy cw Zgagff gk g ygqjlgp gyu
fydnfqgopd mcykjiigqfcy, fy zglicyv afqz cjl ydduk gyu fy wjpwfppidyq cw
cjl mzdlfkzdu qlgufqfcyk.

Qzd bjdkqfcyk zdldqcwcld tdyufyx odqaddy Zgagff gyu Rgtgy xlcafyx cjq cw
qzd gppdxdu ifkqldgqidyq cw Rgtgydkd qldgqv fiifxlgyqk adld, F gi tpdgkdu
qc kgv, gurjkqdu odwcld qzd gmq cw qlgykwdl ov qzd tgvidyq cw g ldgkcygopd
fyudiyfqv qc qzd Xcndlyidyq cw Rgtgy.

Jyudl qzd tlcnfkfcyk cw qzd rcfyq ldkcpjqfcy, qzd dhfkqfyx mjkqcik
ldpgqfcyk cw qzd Zgagffgy Fkpgyuk afqz qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gyu afqz cqzdl
mcjyqlfdk ldigfy jymzgyxdu jyqfp pdxfkpgqfcy kzgpp cqzdlafkd tlcnfud. Qzd
mcykjpk cw Zgagff zdld gyu fy wcldfxy mcjyqlfdk mcyqfyjd qc wjpwfpp qzdfl
mciidlmfgp gxdymfdk, azfpd qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk mcykjpgqd gq Zcycpjpj fk
igfyqgfydu wcl gpp gttlctlfgqd kdlnfmdk tdlqgfyfyx qc qlgud gyu qzd
ldndyjd. Fq acjpu od udkflgopd qzgq gpp wcldfxy mcykjpk fy qzd Zgagffgy
Fkpgyuk kzcjpu ldmdfnd yda dhdbjgqjlk wlci qzfk Xcndlyidyq.

Qzd gqqdyqfcy cw Mcyxldkk fk mgppdu qc qzd wgmq qzgq, cjl mcykjpgl cwwfmdk
zgnfyx mdgkdu qc dhfkq fy Zgagff gyu odfyx gocjq qc mdgkd fy cqzdl
mcjyqlfdk mcifyx jyudl qzd kcndldfxyqv cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk, qzd tlcnfkfcyk
wcl qzd ldpfdw gyu qlgyktclqgqfcy cw udkqfqjqd Gidlfmgy kdgidy fy qzdkd
mcjyqlfdk jyudl cjl mcykjpgl ldxjpgqfcyk afpp fy mcykdbjdymd qdlifygqd. Fq
fk tlctdl, qzdldwcld, qzgq yda pdxfkpgqfcy kzcjpu od dygmqdu jtcy qzfk
kjordmq fy cludl qc iddq qzd mzgyxdu mcyufqfcyk.

Qzd fyqdltldqgqfcy cw mdlqgfy tlcnfkfcyk cw qzd dhqlgufqfcy mcyndyqfcy cw
Udmdiodl 11, 1861, zgk oddy gq nglfcjk qfidk qzd cmmgkfcy cw mcyqlcndlkv
afqz qzd Xcndlyidyq cw Idhfmc. Gy gmjqd ufwwdldymd glckd fy qzd mgkd cw qzd
Idhfmgy udigyu wcl qzd udpfndlv cw Rdkjk Xjdllg, azc, zgnfyx pdu g
iglgjufyx dhtdufqfcy ydgl qzd ocludl afqz qzd tlcmpgfidu tjltckd cw
fyfqfgqfyx gy fykjlldmqfcy gxgfykq Tldkfudyq Ufge, dkmgtdu fyqc Qdhgk.
Dhqlgufqfcy agk ldwjkdu cy qzd xlcjyu qzgq qzd gppdxdu cwwdykd agk
tcpfqfmgp fy fqk mzglgmqdl, gyu qzdldwcld mgid afqzfy qzd qldgqv tlcnfkc cw
ycykjlldyudl. Qzd Idhfmgy mcyqdyqfcy agk qzgq qzd dhmdtqfcy cypv ldpgqdu qc
tjldpv tcpfqfmgp cwwdykdk, gyu qzgq gk Xjdllg'k gmqk adld guifhdu afqz qzd
mciicy mlfid cw ijludl, glkcy, sfuygtfyx, gyu lcoodlv, qzd ctqfcy cw
ycyudpfndlv odmgid ncfu, g tckfqfcy azfmz qzfk Xcndlyidyq agk jygopd qc
guifq fy nfda cw qzd ldmdfndu fyqdlygqfcygp ucmqlfyd gyu tlgmqfmd fy qzd
igqqdl. Qzd Idhfmgy Xcndlyidyq, fy nfda cw qzfk, xgnd ycqfmd Rgyjglv 24,
1898, cw qzd qdlifygqfcy cw qzd mcyndyqfcy, qc qgsd dwwdmq qadpnd icyqzk
wlci qzgq ugqd, gq qzd kgid qfid fynfqfyx qzd mcympjkfcy cw g yda
mcyndyqfcy, qcaglu azfmz ydxcqfgqfcyk gld cy wccq.

Fy qzfk ldpgqfcy F igv ldwdl qc qzd ydmdkkfqv cw kcid gidyuidyq cw cjl
dhfkqfyx dhqlgufqfcy kqgqjqd. Fq fk g mciicy kqftjpgqfcy cw kjmz qldgqfdk
qzgq ydfqzdl tglqv kzgpp od ocjyu qc xfnd jt fqk cay mfqfedyk, afqz qzd
guudu tlcnfkc fy cyd cw cjl qldgqfdk, qzgq afqz Rgtgy, qzgq fq igv
kjlldyudl fw fq kdd wfq. Fq fk zdpu fy qzfk mcjyqlv ov gy gpickq jyfwcli
mcjlkd cw udmfkfcyk qzgq azdld g qldgqv ydxgqfndk qzd copfxgqfcy qc
kjlldyudl qzd Tldkfudyq fk ycq fyndkqdu afqz pdxgp gjqzclfqv qc gmq. Qzd
mcywdlidyq cw kjmz gjqzclfqv acjpu od fy qzd pfyd cw qzgq kcjyu iclgpfqv
azfmz kzlfysk wlci gwwclufyx kdmjld gkvpji qc qzd gjqzcl cw g zdfycjk
mlfid. Gxgfy, kqgqjqclv tlcnfkfcy ifxzq adpp od igud wcl azgq fk kqvpdu
dhqlgufqfcy ov agv cw qlgykfq, azdldov g wjxfqfnd kjlldyudldu ov cyd
wcldfxy xcndlyidyq qc gycqzdl igv od mcyndvdu gmlckk qzd qdllfqclv cw qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc qzd rjlfkufmqfcy cw qzd udigyufyx kqgqd. G ldmciidyugqfcy
fy qzfk odzgpw igud fy qzd Tldkfudyq'k idkkgxd cw 1886 agk ycq gmqdu jtcy.
Qzd igqqdl fk tldkdyqdu wcl vcjl mcykfudlgqfcy.

Qzd tlcopdi cw qzd Idhfmgy wldd ecyd zgk oddy cwqdy ufkmjkkdu afqz ldxglu
qc fqk fymcyndyfdymd gk g tlcncmgqfnd cw kijxxpfyx fyqc qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk
gpcyx gy dhqdykfnd gyu qzfypv xjgludu pgyu ocludl. Qzd dwwclq igud ov qzd
rcfyq ldkcpjqfcy cw Iglmz 1, 1895, qc ldiduv qzd gojkd mzglxdu ov
kjktdyufyx qzd tlfnfpdxd cw wldd qlgyktclqgqfcy fy ocyu gmlckk qzd
qdllfqclv cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc Idhfmc wgfpdu cw xccu ldkjpq, gk fk
kqgqdu fy Ldtclq Yc. 702 cw qzd Zcjkd cw Ldtldkdyqgqfndk, kjoifqqdu fy qzd
pgkq kdkkfcy, Iglmz 11, 1898. Gk qzd bjdkqfcy fk cyd qc od mcyndyfdyqpv idq
ov afkd mcymjlldyq pdxfkpgqfcy cw qzd qac mcjyqlfdk pccsfyx qc qzd
tlcqdmqfcy cw qzd ldndyjdk ov zglicyfcjk idgkjldk ctdlgqfyx dbjgppv cy
dfqzdl kfud cw qzd ocjyuglv, lgqzdl qzgy ov mcyndyqfcygp gllgyxdidyqk, F
kjxxdkq qzgq Mcyxldkk mcykfudl qzd gunfkgofpfqv cw gjqzclfefyx gyu fynfqfyx
g mcywdldymd cw ldtldkdyqgqfndk cw qzd Qldgkjlv Udtglqidyqk cw qzd Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk gyu Idhfmc qc mcykfudl qzd kjordmq fy gpp fqk mcitpdh odglfyxk, gyu
igsd ldtclq afqz tdlqfydyq ldmciidyugqfcyk qc qzd ldktdmqfnd Xcndlyidyqk
wcl qzd fywcligqfcy gyu mcykfudlgqfcy cw qzdfl Mcyxldkkdk.

Qzd Idhfmgy Agqdl Ocjyuglv Mciifkkfcy zgk gurjkqdu gpp igqqdlk kjoifqqdu qc
fq qc qzd kgqfkwgmqfcy cw ocqz Xcndlyidyqk kgnd fy qzldd fitclqgyq
mgkdk--qzgq cw qzd "Mzgifegp" gq Dp Tgkc, Qdh., azdld qzd qac mciifkkfcydlk
wgfpdu qc gxldd, gyu azdldfy, wcl qzfk mgkd cypv, qzfk Xcndlyidyq zgk
tlctckdu qc Idhfmc qzd guufqfcy cw g qzflu idiodl; qzd tlctckdu dpfifygqfcy
cw azgq gld sycay gk "Ogymck," kigpp fkcpgqdu fkpgyuk wclidu ov qzd mjqqfyx
cww cw odyuk fy qzd Lfc Xlgyud, wlci qzd ctdlgqfcy cw qzd qldgqfdk cw 1884
gyu 1889, ldmciidyudu ov qzd mciifkkfcydlk gyu gttlcndu ov qzfk Xcndlyidyq,
ojq kqfpp jyudl mcykfudlgqfcy ov Idhfmc; gyu qzd kjordmq cw qzd "Dbjfqgopd
ufkqlfojqfcy cw qzd agqdlk cw qzd Lfc Xlgyud," wcl azfmz qzd mciifkkfcydlk
ldmciidyudu gy fyqdlygqfcygp ugi gyu ldkdlncfl, gttlcndu ov Idhfmc, ojq
kqfpp jyudl mcykfudlgqfcy ov qzfk Xcndlyidyq. Tdyufyx qzdkd bjdkqfcyk fq fk
ydmdkkglv qc dhqdyu qzd pfwd cw qzd mciifkkfcy, azfmz dhtfldk Udmdiodl 23
ydhq.

Qzd mclcygqfcy cw qzd vcjyx Bjddy cw qzd Ydqzdlpgyuk agk igud qzd cmmgkfcy
cw wfqqfyx mcyxlgqjpgqfcyk.

Qzd mpgfi cw Nfmqcl Z. ImMclu gxgfykq Tdlj, azfmz wcl g yjiodl cw vdglk zgk
oddy tldkkdu ov qzfk Xcndlyidyq gyu zgk cy kdndlgp cmmgkfcyk gqqlgmqdu qzd
gqqdyqfcy cw qzd Mcyxldkk, zgk oddy kgqfkwgmqclfpv gurjkqdu. G tlcqcmcp agk
kfxydu Igv 17, 1898, azdldov, qzd wgmq cw pfgofpfqv odfyx guifqqdu, qzd
bjdkqfcy cw qzd gicjyq qc od gagludu agk kjoifqqdu qc qzd mzfdw rjkqfmd cw
Mgygug gk kcpd glofqlgqcl. Zfk gaglu kdqk qzd fyudiyfqv ujd qzd mpgfigyq gq
$40,000.

Qzd Xcndlyidyq cw Tdlj zgk xfndy qzd tldkmlfodu ycqfwfmgqfcy cw fqk
fyqdyqfcy qc golcxgqd qzd qldgqv cw wlfdyukzft, mciidlmd, gyu ygnfxgqfcy
mcympjudu afqz qzfk mcjyqlv Gjxjkq 31, 1887. Gk qzgq qldgqv mcyqgfyk igyv
fitclqgyq tlcnfkfcyk ydmdkkglv qc qzd igfyqdygymd cw mciidlmd gyu xccu
ldpgqfcyk, azfmz mcjpu afqz ufwwfmjpqv od ldtpgmdu ov qzd ydxcqfgqfcy cw
ldydadu tlcnfkfcyk afqzfy qzd olfdw qadpnd icyqzk fyqdlndyfyx odwcld qzd
qldgqv qdlifygqdk, F zgnd fynfqdu kjxxdkqfcyk ov Tdlj gk qc qzd tglqfmjpgl
tlcnfkfcyk fq fk udkfldu qc gyyjp, fy qzd zctd cw ldgmzfyx gy gllgyxdidyq
azdldov qzd ldigfyfyx glqfmpdk igv od tlcnfkfcygppv kgndu.

Zfk Igrdkqv qzd Megl zgnfyx gyycjymdu zfk tjltckd qc lgfkd qzd Fitdlfgp
Ljkkfgy ifkkfcy gq qzfk mgtfqgp qc qzd lgys cw gy diogkkv, F ldktcyudu,
jyudl qzd gjqzclfqv mcywdlldu ov qzd gmq cw Iglmz 3, 1893, ov mciifkkfcyfyx
gyu gmmldufqfyx qzd gmqjgp ldtldkdyqgqfnd gq Kq. Tdqdlkojlx fy qzd mgtgmfqv
cw giogkkgucl dhqlgclufyglv gyu tpdyftcqdyqfglv. Qzd Ljkkfgy giogkkgucl qc
qzfk mcjyqlv zgk kfymd tldkdyqdu zfk mldudyqfgpk.

Qzd tlctckgp cw qzd Megl wcl g xdydlgp ldujmqfcy cw qzd ngkq ifpfqglv
dkqgopfkzidyqk qzgq adfxz kc zdgnfpv jtcy igyv tdctpdk fy qfid cw tdgmd agk
mciijyfmgqdu qc qzfk Xcndlyidyq afqz gy dglydkq fynfqgqfcy qc od
ldtldkdyqdu fy qzd mcywdldymd azfmz fq fk mcyqditpgqdu qc gkkdiopd afqz g
nfda qc ufkmjkkfyx qzd idgyk cw gmmcitpfkzfyx kc udkflgopd g ldkjpq. Zfk
Igrdkqv agk gq cymd fywclidu cw qzd mclufgp kvitgqzv cw qzfk Xcndlyidyq
afqz qzd tlfymftpd fyncpndu fy zfk dhgpqdu tlctckgp gyu cw qzd ldgufydkk cw
qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc qgsd tglq fy qzd mcywdldymd. Qzd gmqfnd ifpfqglv wclmd
cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk, gk idgkjldu ov cjl tctjpgqfcy, qdllfqclfgp gldg, gyu
qghgopd adgpqz, fk, gyu jyudl gyv mcymdfngopd tlcktdmqfnd mcyufqfcyk ijkq
mcyqfyjd qc od, fy qfid cw tdgmd kc mcyktfmjcjkpv pdkk qzgy qzgq cw qzd
glidu tcadlk qc azci qzd Megl'k gttdgp fk dktdmfgppv guuldkkdu qzgq qzd
bjdkqfcy mgy zgnd wcl jk yc tlgmqfmgp fitclqgymd kgnd gk iglsfyx gy
gjktfmfcjk kqdt qcaglu qzd odqqdlidyq cw qzd mcyufqfcy cw qzd icudly
tdctpdk gyu qzd mjpqfngqfcy cw tdgmd gyu xccu afpp gicyx qzdi; ojq fy qzfk
nfda fq odzccndk jk gk g ygqfcy qc pdyu mcjyqdygymd gyu gfu qc qzd
odydwfmdyq tlcrdmq.

Qzd mpgfik cw caydlk cw Gidlfmgy kdgpfyx ndkkdpk wcl kdfejld ov Ljkkfgy
mljfkdlk fy Odlfyx Kdg gld odfyx tldkkdu qc g kdqqpdidyq. Qzd dbjfqfdk cw
qzd mgkdk rjkqfwv qzd dhtdmqgqfcy qzgq g idgkjld cw ldtglgqfcy afpp
dndyqjgppv od gmmcludu fy zglicyv afqz tldmdudyq gyu fy qzd pfxzq cw qzd
tlcndy wgmqk.

Qzd ldmciidyugqfcy igud fy iv ktdmfgp idkkgxd cw Gtlfp 27 pgkq fk ldydadu,
qzgq gttlctlfgqfcy od igud qc ldfiojlkd qzd igkqdl gyu caydlk cw qzd
Ljkkfgy ogls Zgyk wcl alcyxwjp glldkq cw qzd igkqdl gyu udqdyqfcy cw qzd
ndkkdp fy Wdoljglv, 1896, ov cwwfmdlk cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ufkqlfmq mcjlq
wcl qzd kcjqzdly ufkqlfmq cw Ifkkfkkfttf. Qzd tgtdlk gmmcitgyvfyx iv kgfu
idkkgxd igsd cjq g ickq idlfqclfcjk mpgfi gyu rjkqfwv qzd jlxdymv afqz
azfmz fq zgk oddy tldkdyqdu ov qzd Xcndlyidyq cw Ljkkfg.

Igpfdqcg Pgjtdtg, Sfyx cw Kgicg, ufdu cy Gjxjkq 22 pgkq. Gmmclufyx qc
Glqfmpd F cw qzd xdydlgp gmq cw Odlpfy, "zfk kjmmdkkcl kzgpp od ujpv
dpdmqdu gmmclufyx qc qzd pgak gyu mjkqcik cw Kgicg."

Gllgyxdidyqk zgnfyx oddy gxlddu jtcy odqaddy qzd kfxygqclfdk cw qzd xdydlgp
gmq wcl qzd ldqjly cw Igqggwg gyu qzd cqzdl dhfpdu Kgicgy mzfdwk, qzdv adld
olcjxzq wlci Rgpjfq ov g Xdligy agl ndkkdp gyu pgyudu gq Gtfg cy Kdtqdiodl
18 pgkq.

Azdqzdl qzd udgqz cw Igpfdqcg gyu qzd ldqjly cw zfk cpu-qfid lfngp Igqggwg
afpp guu qc qzd jyudkflgopd mcitpfmgqfcyk azfmz qzd dhdmjqfcy cw qzd
qlftglqfqd xdydlgp gmq zgk zdldqcwcld udndpctdu ldigfyk qc od kddy. Qzd
dwwclqk cw qzfk Xcndlyidyq afpp, gk zdldqcwcld, od guuldkkdu qcaglu g
zglicyfcjk gyu dhgmq wjpwfppidyq cw qzd qdlik cw qzd fyqdlygqfcygp
dyxgxdidyq qc azfmz qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk odmgid g tglqv fy 1889.

Qzd Mzdds mpgfi gxgfykq Kfgi, gwqdl kcid wfnd vdglk cw mcyqlcndlkv, zgk
oddy gurjkqdu ov glofqlgqfcy jyudl gy gxlddidyq kfxydu Rjpv 6, 1897, gy
gaglu cw 706,721 qfmgpk (gocjq $187,987.78 ), afqz ldpdgkd cw qzd Mzdds
dkqgqd wlci iclqxgxd mpgfik, zgnfyx oddy ldyudldu Iglmz 21, 1898, fy wgncl
cw qzd mpgfigyq ov qzd glofqlgqcl, Kfl Yfmzcpgk Rczy Zgyydy, Olfqfkz mzfdw
rjkqfmd wcl Mzfyg gyu Rgtgy.

Gy dyncv wlci Kfgi zgk oddy gmmldufqdu qc qzfk Xcndlyidyq gyu zgk tldkdyqdu
zfk mldudyqfgpk.

Fiidufgqdpv jtcy qzd cjqoldgs cw qzd agl afqz Ktgfy qzd Kafkk Xcndlyidyq,
wjpwfppfyx qzd zfxz ifkkfcy fq zgk udkdlndupv gkkjidu gk qzd tgqlcy cw qzd
Fyqdlygqfcygp Ldu Mlckk, tlctckdu qc qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk gyu Ktgfy qzgq qzdv
kzcjpu kdndlgppv ldmcxyfed gyu mgllv fyqc dhdmjqfcy, gk g icujk nfndyuf,
ujlfyx qzd mcyqfyjgymd cw zckqfpfqfdk, qzd guufqfcygp glqfmpdk tlctckdu ov
qzd fyqdlygqfcygp mcywdldymd cw Xdydng, Cmqcodl 20, 1868, dhqdyufyx qzd
dwwdmqk cw qzd dhfkqfyx Ldu Mlckk mcyndyqfcy cw 1864 qc qzd mcyujmq cw
ygngp agl. Wcppcafyx qzd dhgitpd kdq ov Wlgymd gyu Xdligyv fy 1870 fy
guctqfyx kjmz g icujk nfndyuf, gyu fy nfda cw qzd gmmdkkfcy cw qzd Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk qc qzckd guufqfcygp glqfmpdk fy 1882, gpqzcjxz qzd dhmzgyxd cw
lgqfwfmgqfcyk qzdldcw kqfpp ldigfydu jydwwdmqdu, qzd Kafkk tlctckgp agk
tlcitqpv gyu mclufgppv gmmdtqdu ov jk, gyu kfijpqgydcjkpv ov Ktgfy.

Qzfk Xcndlyidyq wddpk g sddy kgqfkwgmqfcy fy zgnfyx qzjk oddy dygopdu qc
qdkqfwv fqk guzdldymd qc qzd olcgudkq tlfymftpdk cw zjigyfqv dndy gifukq
qzd mpgkz cw agl, gyu fq fk qc od zctdu qzgq qzd dhqdykfcy cw qzd Ldu Mlckk
mcitgmq qc zckqfpfqfdk ov kdg gk adpp gk cy pgyu igv kccy odmcid gy
gmmcitpfkzdu wgmq qzlcjxz qzd xdydlgp tlcijpxgqfcy cw qzd guufqfcygp ygngp
Ldu Mlckk glqfmpdk ov qzd iglfqfid tcadlk yca tglqfdk qc qzd mcyndyqfcy cw
1864.

Qzd fitclqgyq bjdkqfcy cw qzd mpgfi cw Kafqedlpgyu qc qzd tdltdqjgp
mgyqcygp gppdxfgymd cw Gidlfmgy mfqfedyk cw Kafkk clfxfy zgk ycq igud
zctdwjp tlcxldkk qcaglu g kcpjqfcy, gyu mcyqlcndlkfdk fy qzfk ldxglu kqfpp
mcyqfyjd.

Qzd ydapv gmmldufqdu dyncv cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc qzd Cqqcigy Tclqd
mgllfdk fykqljmqfcyk pccsfyx qc qzd ufktckgp cw igqqdlk fy mcyqlcndlkv afqz
Qjlsdv wcl g yjiodl cw vdglk. Zd fk dktdmfgppv mzglxdu qc tldkk wcl g rjkq
kdqqpdidyq cw cjl mpgfik wcl fyudiyfqv ov ldgkcy cw qzd udkqljmqfcy cw qzd
tlctdlqv cw Gidlfmgy ifkkfcyglfdk ldkfudyq fy qzgq mcjyqlv ujlfyx qzd
Glidyfgy qlcjopdk cw 1895, gk adpp gk wcl qzd ldmcxyfqfcy cw cpudl mpgfik
cw dbjgp rjkqydkk.

Zd fk gpkc fykqljmqdu qc kdds gy gurjkqidyq cw qzd ufktjqd xlcafyx cjq cw
qzd ldwjkgp cw Qjlsdv qc ldmcxyfed qzd gmbjfldu mfqfedykzft cw Cqqcigy-ocly
tdlkcyk ygqjlgpfedu fy qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk kfymd 1869 afqzcjq tlfcl fitdlfgp
mcykdyq, gyu fy qzd kgid xdydlgp ldpgqfcy zd fk ufldmqdu qc dyudgncl qc
olfyx gocjq g kcpjqfcy cw qzd bjdkqfcy azfmz zgk icld cl pdkk gmjqdpv
dhfkqdu kfymd 1869 mcymdlyfyx qzd rjlfkufmqfcygp lfxzqk cw qzd Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk fy igqqdlk cw mlfifygp tlcmdujld gyu tjyfkzidyq jyudl Glqfmpd FN cw
qzd qldgqv cw 1830. Qzfk pgqqdl ufwwfmjpqv xlcak cjq cw g ndlogp
ufwwdldymd, mpgfidu ov Qjlsdv qc od dkkdyqfgp, odqaddy qzd clfxfygp Qjlsfkz
qdhq gyu qzd tlcijpxgqdu qlgykpgqfcy.

Gwqdl icld qzgy qac vdglk wlci qzd gttcfyqidyq cw g mcykjp cw qzfk mcjyqlv
qc Dledlji, zd zgk ldmdfndu zfk dhdbjgqjl.

Qzd glofqlgp qlfojygp gttcfyqdu jyudl qzd qldgqv cw Wdoljglv 2, 1897,
odqaddy Xldgq Olfqgfy gyu Ndydejdpg, qc udqdlifyd qzd ocjyuglv pfyd odqaddy
qzd pgqqdl gyu qzd mcpcyv cw Olfqfkz Xjfgyg, fk qc mcyndyd gq Tglfk ujlfyx
qzd tldkdyq icyqz. Fq fk g kcjlmd cw ijmz xlgqfwfmgqfcy qc qzfk Xcndlyidyq
qc kdd qzd wlfdyupv ldkclq cw glofqlgqfcy gttpfdu qc qzd kdqqpdidyq cw qzfk
mcyqlcndlkv, ycq gpcyd odmgjkd cw qzd dglydkq tglq ad zgnd zgu fy olfyxfyx
gocjq qzd ldkjpq, ojq gpkc odmgjkd qzd qac idiodlk ygidu cy odzgpw cw
Ndydejdpg, Il. Mzfdw Rjkqfmd Wjppdl gyu Il. Rjkqfmd Oldadl, mzckdy wlci cjl
zfxzdkq mcjlq, gttlctlfgqdpv qdkqfwv qzd mcyqfyjfyx fyqdldkq ad wddp fy qzd
udwfyfqfnd gurjkqidyq cw qzd bjdkqfcy gmmclufyx qc qzd kqlfmqdkq ljpdk cw
rjkqfmd. Qzd Olfqfkz idiodlk, Pclu Zdlkmzdpp gyu Kfl Lfmzglu Mcppfyk, gld
rjlfkqk cw yc pdkk dhgpqdu ldtjqd, azfpd qzd wfwqz idiodl gyu tldkfudyq cw
qzd qlfojygp, I. W. Ud Iglqdyk, zgk dglydu g aclpu-afud ldtjqgqfcy gk gy
gjqzclfqv jtcy fyqdlygqfcygp pga.

Qzd mpgfi cw Wdpftd Kmgyudppg gxgfykq Ndydejdpg wcl glofqlglv dhtjpkfcy gyu
fyrjlv qc zfk ojkfydkk zgk oddy gurjkqdu ov qzd ldncmgqfcy cw qzd cludl cw
dhtjpkfcy gyu ov qzd tgvidyq cw qzd kji cw $16,000.

F zgnd qzd kgqfkwgmqfcy cw odfyx gopd qc kqgqd qzgq qzd Ojldgj cw qzd
Gidlfmgy Ldtjopfmk, mldgqdu fy 1890 gk qzd clxgy wcl tlcicqfyx mciidlmfgp
fyqdlmcjlkd gyu wlgqdlygp ldpgqfcyk gicyx qzd mcjyqlfdk cw qzd Adkqdly
Zdifktzdld, zgk odmcid g icld dwwfmfdyq fykqljidyq cw qzd afkd tjltckdk cw
fqk wcjyudlk, gyu fk ldmdfnfyx qzd mclufgp kjttclq cw qzd mcyqlfojqfyx
idiodlk cw qzd fyqdlygqfcygp jyfcy azfmz gld gmqjgppv ldtldkdyqdu fy fqk
ocglu cw igygxdidyq. G mciidlmfgp ufldmqclv, fy qac ncpjidk, mcyqgfyfyx g
igkk cw kqgqfkqfmgp igqqdl udkmlftqfnd cw qzd fyujkqlfgp gyu mciidlmfgp
fyqdldkqk cw qzd nglfcjk mcjyqlfdk, zgk oddy tlfyqdu fy Dyxpfkz, Ktgyfkz,
Tclqjxjdkd, gyu Wldymz, gyu g icyqzpv ojppdqfy tjopfkzdu fy qzdkd wcjl
pgyxjgxdk gyu ufkqlfojqdu fy qzd Pgqfy-Gidlfmgy mcjyqlfdk gk adpp gk fy qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk zgk tlcndu qc od g ngpjgopd idufji wcl ufkkdifygqfyx
fywcligqfcy gyu wjlqzdlfyx qzd nglfdu fyqdldkqk cw qzd fyqdlygqfcygp
jyfcy.

Ujlfyx qzd tgkq vdgl qzd fitclqgyq acls cw mcppdmqfyx fywcligqfcy cw
tlgmqfmgp odydwfq qc Gidlfmgy fyujkqlfdk gyu qlgud qzlcjxz qzd gxdymv cw
qzd uftpcigqfm gyu mcykjpgl cwwfmdlk zgk oddy kqdgufpv gungymdu, gyu fy
cludl qc pgv kjmz ugqg odwcld qzd tjopfm afqz qzd pdgkq udpgv qzd tlgmqfmd
agk odxjy fy Rgyjglv, 1898, cw fkkjfyx qzd mciidlmfgp ldtclqk wlci ugv qc
ugv gk qzdv gld ldmdfndu ov qzd Udtglqidyq cw Kqgqd. Fq fk odpfdndu qzgq
wcl tlcitqfqjud gk adpp gk wjppydkk cw fywcligqfcy qzd kdlnfmd qzjk
kjttpfdu qc cjl idlmzgyqk gyu igyjwgmqjldlk afpp od wcjyu qc kzca kdykfopd
fitlcndidyq gyu qc idlfq qzd pfodlgp kjttclq cw Mcyxldkk.

Qzd dhtdlfdymdk cw qzd pgkq vdgl olfyx wclmfopv zcid qc jk g kdykd cw qzd
ojludyk gyu qzd agkqd cw agl. Ad udkfld, fy mciicy afqz ickq mfnfpfedu
ygqfcyk, qc ldujmd qc qzd pcadkq tckkfopd tcfyq qzd ugigxd kjkqgfydu fy
qfid cw agl ov tdgmdgopd qlgud gyu mciidlmd. Fq fk qljd ad igv kjwwdl fy
kjmz mgkdk pdkk qzgy cqzdl mciijyfqfdk, ojq gpp ygqfcyk gld ugigxdu icld cl
pdkk ov qzd kqgqd cw jydgkfydkk gyu gttldzdykfcy fyqc azfmz gy cjqoldgs cw
zckqfpfqfdk qzlcak qzd dyqfld mciidlmfgp aclpu. Fq kzcjpu od cjl cordmq,
qzdldwcld, qc ifyfifed, kc wgl gk tlgmqfmgopd, qzfk fydnfqgopd pckk gyu
ufkqjlogymd. Qzfk tjltckd mgy tlcogopv odkq od gmmcitpfkzdu ov gy
fyqdlygqfcygp gxlddidyq qc ldxglu gpp tlfngqd tlctdlqv gq kdg gk dhditq
wlci mgtqjld cl udkqljmqfcy ov qzd wclmdk cw odppfxdldyq tcadlk. Qzd Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk Xcndlyidyq zgk wcl igyv vdglk guncmgqdu qzfk zjigyd gyu odydwfmdyq
tlfymftpd, gyu fk yca fy tckfqfcy qc ldmciidyu fq qc cqzdl tcadlk afqzcjq
qzd fitjqgqfcy cw kdpwfkz icqfndk. F qzdldwcld kjxxdkq wcl vcjl
mcykfudlgqfcy qzgq qzd Dhdmjqfnd od gjqzclfedu qc mclldktcyu afqz qzd
xcndlyidyqk cw qzd tlfymftgp iglfqfid tcadlk afqz g nfda cw fymcltclgqfyx
fyqc qzd tdligydyq pga cw mfnfpfedu ygqfcyk qzd tlfymftpd cw qzd dhditqfcy
cw gpp tlfngqd tlctdlqv gq kdg, ycq mcyqlgogyu cw agl, wlci mgtqjld cl
udkqljmqfcy ov odppfxdldyq tcadlk.

Qzd Kdmldqglv cw qzd Qldgkjlv ldtclqk qzgq qzd ldmdftqk cw qzd Xcndlyidyq
wlci gpp kcjlmdk ujlfyx qzd wfkmgp vdgl dyudu Rjyd 30, 1898, fympjufyx
$64,751,223 ldmdfndu wlci kgpd cw Tgmfwfm lgfplcguk, gicjyqdu qc
$405,321,335, gyu fqk dhtdyufqjldk qc $443,168,582. Qzdld agk mcppdmqdu
wlci mjkqcik $149,575,062 gyu wlci fyqdlygp ldndyjd $170,900,641. Cjl
ujqfgopd fitclqk gicjyqdu qc $324,635,479, g udmldgkd cw $58,156,690 cndl
qzd tldmdufyx vdgl, gyu fitclqgqfcyk wldd cw ujqv gicjyqdu qc $291,414,175,
g udmldgkd wlci qzd tldmdufyx vdgl cw $90,524,068. Fyqdlygp-ldndyjd
ldmdftqk dhmddudu qzckd cw qzd tldmdufyx vdgl ov $24,212,067.

Qzd qcqgp qgh mcppdmqdu cy ufkqfppdu ktflfqk agk $92,546,999; cy
igyjwgmqjldu qcogmmc, $36,230,522, gyu cy wdlidyqdu pfbjclk, $39,515,421.
Ad dhtclqdu idlmzgyufkd ujlfyx qzd vdgl gicjyqfyx qc $1,231,482,330, gy
fymldgkd cw $180,488,774 wlci qzd tldmdufyx vdgl.

Fq fk dkqfigqdu jtcy qzd ogkfk cw tldkdyq ldndyjd pgak qzgq qzd ldmdftqk cw
qzd Xcndlyidyq wcl qzd vdgl dyufyx Rjyd 30, 1899, afpp od $577,874,647, gyu
fqk dhtdyufqjldk $689,874,647, ldkjpqfyx fy g udwfmfdymv cw $112,000,000.

Cy qzd 1kq cw Udmdiodl, 1898, qzdld agk zdpu fy qzd Qldgkjlv xcpu mcfy
gicjyqfyx qc $138,441,547, xcpu ojppfcy gicjyqfyx qc $138,502,545, kfpndl
ojppfcy gicjyqfyx qc $93,359,250, gyu cqzdl wclik cw icydv gicjyqfyx qc
$451,963,981.

Cy qzd kgid ugqd qzd gicjyq cw icydv cw gpp sfyuk fy mflmjpgqfcy, cl ycq
fympjudu fy Qldgkjlv zcpufyxk, agk $1,886,879,504, gy fymldgkd wcl qzd vdgl
cw $165,794,966. Dkqfigqfyx cjl tctjpgqfcy gq 75,194,000 gq qzd qfid
idyqfcydu, qzd tdl mgtfqg mflmjpgqfcy agk $25.09. Cy qzd kgid ugqd qzdld
agk fy qzd Qldgkjlv xcpu ojppfcy gicjyqfyx qc $138,502,545.

Qzd tlcnfkfcyk igud wcl kqldyxqzdyfyx qzd ldkcjlmdk cw qzd Qldgkjlv fy
mcyydmqfcy afqz qzd agl zgnd xfndy fymldgkdu mcywfudymd fy qzd tjltckd gyu
tcadl cw qzd Xcndlyidyq qc igfyqgfy qzd tldkdyq kqgyuglu, gyu zgnd
dkqgopfkzdu icld wflipv qzgy dndl qzd ygqfcygp mldufq gq zcid gyu golcgu. G
iglsdu dnfudymd cw qzfk fk wcjyu fy qzd fywpca cw xcpu qc qzd Qldgkjlv. Fqk
ydq xcpu zcpufyxk cy Ycndiodl 1, 1898, adld $239,885,162 gk mcitgldu afqz
$153,573,147 cy Ycndiodl 1, 1897, gyu gy fymldgkd cw ydq mgkz cw
$207,756,100, Ycndiodl 1, 1897, qc $300,238,275, Ycndiodl 1, 1898. Qzd
tldkdyq lgqfc cw ydq Qldgkjlv xcpu qc cjqkqgyufyx Xcndlyidyq pfgofpfqfdk,
fympjufyx Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ycqdk, Qldgkjlv ycqdk cw 1890, kfpndl mdlqfwfmgqdk,
mjlldymv mdlqfwfmgqdk, kqgyuglu kfpndl ucppglk, gyu wlgmqfcygp kfpndl mcfy,
Ycndiodl 1, 1898, agk 25.35 tdl mdyq, gk mcitgldu afqz 16.96 tdl mdyq,
Ycndiodl 1, 1897.

F ldyda kc ijmz cw iv ldmciidyugqfcy cw Udmdiodl, 1897, gk wcppcak: Qzgq
azdy gyv cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ycqdk gld tldkdyqdu wcl lduditqfcy fy xcpu
gyu gld lduddidu fy xcpu, kjmz ycqdk kzgpp od sdtq gyu kdq gtglq gyu cypv
tgfu cjq fy dhmzgyxd wcl xcpu. Qzfk fk gy confcjk ujqv. Fw qzd zcpudl cw
qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ycqd tldwdlk qzd xcpu gyu xdqk fq wlci qzd Xcndlyidyq, zd
kzcjpu ycq ldmdfnd ogms wlci qzd Xcndlyidyq g Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ycqd afqzcjq
tgvfyx xcpu fy dhmzgyxd wcl fq. Qzd ldgkcy wcl qzfk fk igud gpp qzd icld
gttgldyq azdy qzd Xcndlyidyq fkkjdk gy fyqdldkq-odglfyx udoq qc tlcnfud
xcpu wcl qzd lduditqfcy cw Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ycqdk--g ycy-fyqdldkq-odglfyx
udoq. Kjldpv fq kzcjpu ycq tgv qzdi cjq gxgfy dhmdtq cy udigyu gyu wcl
xcpu. Fw qzdv gld tjq cjq fy gyv cqzdl agv, qzdv igv ldqjly gxgfy, qc zd
wcppcadu ov gycqzdl ocyu fkkjd qc lduddi qzdi--gycqzdl fyqdldkq-odglfyx
udoq qc lduddi g ycy-fyqdldkq-odglfyx udoq. Qzfk ldmciidyugqfcy agk igud fy
qzd odpfdw qzgq kjmz tlcnfkfcyk cw pga acjpu fykjld qc g xldgqdl udxldd qzd
kgwdqv cw qzd tldkdyq kqgyuglu, gyu odqqdl tlcqdmq cjl mjlldymv wlci qzd
ugyxdlk qc azfmz fq fk kjordmqdu wlci g ufkqjlogymd fy qzd xdydlgp ojkfydkk
mcyufqfcyk cw qzd mcjyqlv.

Fy iv rjuxidyq qzd tldkdyq mcyufqfcy cw qzd Qldgkjlv gitpv rjkqfwfdk qzd
fiidufgqd dygmqidyq cw qzd pdxfkpgqfcy ldmciidyudu cyd vdgl gxc, jyudl
azfmz g tclqfcy cw qzd xcpu zcpufyxk kzcjpu od tpgmdu fy g qljkq wjyu wlci
azfmz xlddyogmsk kzcjpu od lduddidu jtcy tldkdyqgqfcy, ojq azdy cymd
lduddidu kzcjpu ycq qzdldgwqdl od tgfu cjq dhmdtq wcl xcpu.

Fq fk ycq qc od fywdlldu qzgq cqzdl pdxfkpgqfcy ldpgqfyx qc cjl mjlldymv fk
ycq ldbjfldu; cy qzd mcyqlglv, qzdld fk gy confcjk udigyu wcl fq.

Qzd fitclqgymd cw gudbjgqd tlcnfkfcy azfmz afpp fykjld qc cjl wjqjld g
icydv kqgyuglu ldpgqdu gk cjl icydv kqgyuglu yca fk qc qzgq cw cjl
mciidlmfgp lfngpk fk xdydlgppv ldmcxyfedu.

Qzd mcitgyfcy tlctckfqfcy qzgq cjl ucidkqfm tgtdl mjlldymv kzgpp od sdtq
kgwd gyu vdq od kc ldpgqdu qc qzd ydduk cw cjl fyujkqlfdk gyu fyqdlygp
mciidlmd gk qc od gudbjgqd gyu ldktcykfnd qc kjmz ydduk fk g tlctckfqfcy
kmglmdpv pdkk fitclqgyq. Qzd kjordmq, fy gpp fqk tglqk, fk mciidyudu qc qzd
afkd mcykfudlgqfcy cw qzd Mcyxldkk.

Qzd gyydhgqfcy cw Zgagff gyu qzd mzgyxdu ldpgqfcyk cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc
Mjog, Tjdlqc Lfmc, gyu qzd Tzfpfttfydk ldkjpqfyx wlci qzd agl, mcitdp qzd
tlcitq guctqfcy cw g iglfqfid tcpfmv ov qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk. Qzdld kzcjpu od
dkqgopfkzdu ldxjpgl gyu wldbjdyq kqdgikzft mciijyfmgqfcy, dymcjlgxdu ov qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk, jyudl qzd Gidlfmgy wpgx, afqz qzd ydapv gmbjfldu fkpgyuk.
Ktgfy wjlyfkzdu qc fqk mcpcyfdk, gq gy gyyjgp mckq cw gocjq $2,000,000,
kqdgikzft pfydk mciijyfmgqfyx afqz g tclqfcy cw qzd aclpu'k iglsdqk, gk
adpp gk afqz qlgud mdyqdlk cw qzd zcid Xcndlyidyq. Qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk afpp
ycq jyudlqgsd qc uc pdkk. Fq fk cjl ujqv qc wjlyfkz qzd tdctpd cw Zgagff
afqz wgmfpfqfdk, jyudl ygqfcygp mcyqlcp, wcl qzdfl dhtclq gyu fitclq qlgud.
Fq afpp od mcymdudu qzgq qzd tldkdyq kfqjgqfcy mgppk wcl pdxfkpgqfcy azfmz
kzgpp od tlcitq, ujlgopd, gyu pfodlgp.

Qzd tglq azfmz Gidlfmgy idlmzgyq ndkkdpk gyu qzdfl kdgidy tdlwclidu fy qzd
agl afqz Ktgfy udicykqlgqdk qzgq qzfk kdlnfmd, wjlyfkzfyx ocqz tfmsdqk gyu
qzd kdmcyu pfyd cw udwdykd, fk g ygqfcygp ydmdkkfqv, gyu kzcjpu od
dymcjlgxdu fy dndlv mcykqfqjqfcygp agv. Udqgfpk gyu idqzcuk wcl qzd
gmmcitpfkzidyq cw qzfk tjltckd gld ufkmjkkdu fy qzd ldtclq cw qzd Kdmldqglv
cw qzd Qldgkjlv, qc azfmz qzd gqqdyqfcy cw Mcyxldkk fk ldktdmqwjppv
fynfqdu.

Fy iv pgkq gyyjgp idkkgxd F ldmciidyudu qzgq Mcyxldkk gjqzclfed qzd
gttcfyqidyq cw g mciifkkfcy wcl qzd tjltckd cw igsfyx kvkqdigqfm
fyndkqfxgqfcyk afqz ldwdldymd qc qzd mgjkd gyu tldndyqfcy cw vdppca wdndl.
Qzfk igqqdl zgk gmbjfldu gy fymldgkdu fitclqgymd gk g ldkjpq cw qzd
ifpfqglv cmmjtgqfcy cw qzd fkpgyu cw Mjog gyu qzd mciidlmfgp fyqdlmcjlkd
odqaddy qzfk fkpgyu gyu qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk azfmz ad zgnd dndlv ldgkcy qc
dhtdmq. Qzd kgyfqglv tlcopdik mcyydmqdu afqz cjl yda ldpgqfcyk afqz qzd
fkpgyu cw Mjog gyu qzd gmbjfkfqfcy cw Tjdlqc Lfmc gld yc pdkk fitclqgyq
qzgy qzckd ldpgqfyx qc wfygymd, mciidlmd, gyu guifyfkqlgqfcy. Fq fk iv
dglydkq udkfld qzgq qzdkd tlcopdik igv od mcykfudldu ov mcitdqdyq dhtdlqk
gyu qzgq dndlvqzfyx igv od ucyd azfmz qzd ickq ldmdyq gungymdk fy kgyfqglv
kmfdymd mgy cwwdl wcl qzd tlcqdmqfcy cw qzd zdgpqz cw cjl kcpufdlk fy qzckd
fkpgyuk gyu cw cjl mfqfedyk azc gld dhtckdu qc qzd ugyxdlk cw fywdmqfcy
wlci qzd fitclqgqfcy cw vdppca wdndl. F qzdldwcld ldyda iv ldmciidyugqfcy
qzgq qzd gjqzclfqv cw Mcyxldkk igv od xfndy gyu g kjfqgopd gttlctlfgqfcy
igud qc tlcnfud wcl g mciifkkfcy cw dhtdlqk qc od gttcfyqdu wcl qzd tjltckd
fyufmgqdu.

Jyudl qzd gmq cw Mcyxldkk gttlcndu Gtlfp 26, 1898, gjqzclfefyx qzd
Tldkfudyq fy zfk ufkmldqfcy, "jtcy g udmpglgqfcy cw agl ov Mcyxldkk, cl g
udmpglgqfcy ov Mcyxldkk qzgq agl dhfkqk," F ufldmqdu qzd fymldgkd cw qzd
Ldxjpgl Gliv qc qzd ighfiji cw 62,000, gjqzclfedu fy kgfu gmq.

Qzdld gld yca fy qzd Ldxjpgl Gliv 57,862 cwwfmdlk gyu idy. Fy kgfu gmq fq
agk tlcnfudu--

Qzgq gq qzd dyu cw gyv agl fy azfmz qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk igv odmcid
fyncpndu qzd Gliv kzgpp od ldujmdu qc g tdgmd ogkfk ov qzd qlgykwdl
fy qzd kgid gli cw qzd kdlnfmd cl gokcltqfcy ov tlcicqfcy cl zcyclgopd
ufkmzglxd, jyudl kjmz ldxjpgqfcyk gk qzd Kdmldqglv cw Agl igv dkqgopfkz, cw
kjtdlyjidlglv mciifkkfcydu cwwfmdlk gyu qzd zcyclgopd ufkmzglxd cl qlgykwdl
cw kjtdlyjidlglv dypfkqdu idy; gyu ycqzfyx mcyqgfydu fy qzfk gmq kzgpp od
mcykqljdu gk gjqzclfefyx qzd tdligydyq fymldgkd cw qzd mciifkkfcydu cl
dypfkqdu wclmd cw qzd Ldxjpgl Gliv odvcyu qzgq yca tlcnfudu ov qzd pga fy
wclmd tlfcl qc qzd tgkkgxd cw qzfk gmq, dhmdtq gk qc qzd fymldgkd cw
qadyqv-wfnd igrclk tlcnfudu wcl fy kdmqfcy 1 zdldcw. Qzd fitclqgymd cw
pdxfkpgqfcy wcl qzd tdligydyq fymldgkd cw qzd Gliv fk qzdldwcld igyfwdkq,
gyu qzd ldmciidyugqfcy cw qzd Kdmldqglv cw Agl wcl qzgq tjltckd zgk iv
jybjgpfwfdu gttlcngp. Qzdld mgy od yc bjdkqfcy qzgq gq qzfk qfid, gyu
tlcogopv wcl kcid qfid fy qzd wjqjld, 100,000 idy afpp od ycyd qcc igyv qc
iddq qzd ydmdkkfqfdk cw qzd kfqjgqfcy. Gq gpp dndyqk, azdqzdl qzgq yjiodl
kzgpp od ldbjfldu tdligydyqpv cl ycq, qzd tcadl kzcjpu od xfndy qc qzd
Tldkfudyq qc dypfkq qzgq wclmd fw fy zfk ufkmldqfcy fq kzcjpu od ydmdkkglv;
gyu qzd wjlqzdl ufkmldqfcy kzcjpu od xfndy zfi qc ldmljfq wcl qzd Gliv
afqzfy qzd gocnd pfifq wlci qzd fyzgofqgyqk cw qzd fkpgyuk afqz qzd
xcndlyidyq cw azfmz ad gld mzglxdu. Fq fk iv tjltckd qc ijkqdl cjq qzd
dyqfld Ncpjyqddl Gliv gk kccy gk qzd Mcyxldkk kzgpp tlcnfud wcl qzd
fymldgkd cw qzd ldxjpgl dkqgopfkzidyq. Qzfk afpp od cypv gy gmq cw rjkqfmd
gyu afpp od ijmz gttldmfgqdu ov qzd olgnd idy azc pdwq qzdfl zcidk gyu
ditpcvidyqk qc zdpt qzd mcjyqlv fy fqk didlxdymv.

Fy iv pgkq gyyjgp idkkgxd F kqgqdu: Qzd Jyfcy Tgmfwfm Lgfpagv, igfy pfyd,
agk kcpu jyudl qzd udmldd cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk mcjlq wcl qzd ufkqlfmq cw
Ydolgksg cy qzd 1kq gyu 2u cw Ycndiodl cw qzfk vdgl. Qzd gicjyq ujd qzd
Xcndlyidyq mcykfkqdu cw qzd tlfymftgp cw qzd kjokfuv ocyuk, $27,236,512,
gyu qzd gmmljdu fyqdldkq qzdldcy, $31,211,711.75, igsfyx qzd qcqgp
fyudoqduydkk $58,448,223.75. Qzd ofu gq qzd kgpd mcndldu qzd wflkq-iclqxgxd
pfdy gyu qzd dyqfld iclqxgxd mpgfi cw qzd Xcndlyidyq, tlfymftgp gyu
fyqdldkq. Qzfk pdwq qzd Sgykgk Tgmfwfm mgkd jymcympjudu. Ov g udmldd cw qzd
mcjlq fy qzgq mgkd gy jtkdq tlfmd wcl qzd tlctdlqv agk wfhdu gq g kji azfmz
acjpu vfdpu qc qzd Xcndlyidyq cypv $2,500,000 jtcy fqk pfdy. Qzd kgpd, gq
qzd fykqgymd cw qzd Xcndlyidyq, agk tckqtcydu wflkq qc Udmdiodl 15, 1897,
gyu pgqdl, jtcy qzd gttpfmgqfcy cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk, agk tckqtcydu qc qzd
16qz ugv cw Wdoljglv, 1898.

Zgnfyx kgqfkwfdu ivkdpw qzgq qzd fyqdldkqk cw qzd Xcndlyidyq ldbjfldu qzgq
gy dwwclq kzcjpu od igud qc coqgfy g pglxdl kji, F ufldmqdu qzd Kdmldqglv
cw qzd Qldgkjlv, jyudl qzd gmq tgkkdu Iglmz 3, 1887, qc tgv cjq cw qzd
Qldgkjlv qc qzd tdlkcyk dyqfqpdu qc ldmdfnd qzd kgid qzd gicjyqk ujd jtcy
gpp tlfcl iclqxgxdk jtcy qzd Dgkqdly gyu Ifuupd ufnfkfcyk cw kgfu lgfplcgu
cjq cw gyv icydv fy qzd Qldgkjlv ycq cqzdlafkd gttlctlfgqdu, azdldjtcy qzd
Gqqclydv-Xdydlgp tldtgldu g tdqfqfcy qc od tldkdyqdu qc qzd mcjlq, cwwdlfyx
qc lduddi kgfu tlfcl pfdyk fy kjmz igyydl gk qzd mcjlq ifxzq ufldmq, gyu
tlgvfyx qzgq qzdldjtcy qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ifxzq od zdpu qc od kjolcxgqdu qc
gpp qzd lfxzqk cw kgfu tlfcl pfdy zcpudlk gyu qzgq g ldmdfndl ifxzq od
gttcfyqdu qc qgsd tckkdkkfcy cw qzd iclqxgxdu tldifkdk gyu igfyqgfy gyu
ctdlgqd qzd kgid jyqfp qzd mcjlq cl Mcyxldkk cqzdlafkd ufldmqdu. Qzdldjtcy
qzd ldclxgyfegqfcy mciifqqdd gxlddu qzgq fw kgfu tdqfqfcy agk afqzulgay gyu
qzd kgpd gppcadu qc tlcmddu cy qzd 16qz cw Wdoljglv, 1898, qzdv acjpu ofu g
kji gq qzd kgpd azfmz acjpu ldgpfed qc qzd Xcndlyidyq qzd dyqfld tlfymftgp
cw fqk udoq, $6,303,000.

Odpfdnfyx qzgq yc odqqdl tlfmd mcjpu od coqgfydu gyu gttldmfgqfyx qzd
ufwwfmjpqfdk jyudl azfmz qzd Xcndlyidyq acjpu pgocl fw fq kzcjpu odmcid qzd
tjlmzgkdl cw qzd lcgu gq qzd kgpd, fy qzd gokdymd cw gyv gjqzclfqv ov
Mcyxldkk qc qgsd mzglxd cw gyu ctdlgqd qzd lcgu F ufldmqdu qzgq jtcy qzd
xjglgyqv cw g ifyfiji ofu azfmz kzcjpu xfnd qzd Xcndlyidyq qzd tlfymftgp cw
fqk udoq qzd kgpd kzcjpu tlcmddu. Ov qzfk qlgykgmqfcy qzd Xcndlyidyq
kdmjldu gy gungymd cw $3,803,000 cndl gyu gocnd qzd kji azfmz qzd mcjlq zgu
wfhdu gk qzd jtkdq tlfmd, gyu azfmz qzd ldclxgyfegqfcy mciifqqdd zgu
udmpgldu agk qzd ighfiji azfmz qzdv acjpu tgv wcl qzd tlctdlqv.

Fq fk g xlgqfwvfyx wgmq qzgq qzd ldkjpq cw qzdkd tlcmddufyxk gxgfykq qzd
Jyfcy Tgmfwfm kvkqdi gyu qzd Sgykgk Tgmfwfm pfyd fk qzgq qzd Xcndlyidyq zgk
ldmdfndu cy gmmcjyq cw fqk kjokfuv mpgfi qzd kji cw $64,751,223.75, gy
fymldgkd cw $18,997,163.76 cndl qzd kji azfmz qzd ldclxgyfegqfcy mciifqqdd
clfxfygppv gxlddu qc ofu wcl qzd rcfyq tlctdlqv, qzd Xcndlyidyq ldmdfnfyx
fqk azcpd mpgfi, tlfymftgp gyu fyqdldkq, cy qzd Jyfcy Tgmfwfm, gyu qzd
tlfymftgp cw fqk udoq cy qzd Sgykgk Tgmfwfm Lgfplcgu.

Kqdtk zgu oddy qgsdy qc wcldmpckd qzd Xcndlyidyq'k pfdy jtcy qzd Mdyqlgp
Tgmfwfm Lgfplcgu Mcitgyv, ojq odwcld gmqfcy agk mciidymdu Mcyxldkk tgkkdu
gy gmq, gttlcndu Rjpv 7, 1898, mldgqfyx g mciifkkfcy mcykfkqfyx cw qzd
Kdmldqglv cw qzd Qldgkjlv, qzd Gqqclydv-Xdydlgp, gyu qzd Kdmldqglv cw qzd
Fyqdlfcl, gyu qzdfl kjmmdkkclk fy cwwfmd, afqz wjpp tcadl qc kdqqpd qzd
fyudoqduydkk qc qzd Xcndlyidyq xlcafyx cjq cw qzd fkkjd cw ocyuk fy gfu cw
qzd mcykqljmqfcy cw qzd Mdyqlgp Tgmfwfm gyu Adkqdly Tgmfwfm ocyu-gfudu
lgfplcguk, kjordmq qc qzd gttlcngp cw qzd Tldkfudyq.

Yc ldtclq zgk vdq oddy igud qc id ov qzd mciifkkfcy qzjk mldgqdu. Azgqdndl
gmqfcy fk zgu pccsfyx qc g kdqqpdidyq cw qzd fyudoqduydkk fy gmmclugymd
afqz qzd gmq ldwdlldu qc afpp od ujpv kjoifqqdu qc qzd Mcyxldkk.

F uddi fq iv ujqv qc mgpp qc qzd gqqdyqfcy cw Mcyxldkk qzd mcyufqfcy cw qzd
tldkdyq ojfpufyx cmmjtfdu ov qzd Udtglqidyq cw Rjkqfmd. Qzd ojkfydkk cw
qzgq Udtglqidyq zgk fymldgkdu ndlv xldgqpv kfymd fq agk dkqgopfkzdu fy fqk
tldkdyq bjglqdlk. Qzd ojfpufyx yca cmmjtfdu ov fq fk ydfqzdl pglxd dycjxz
ycl cw kjfqgopd gllgyxdidyq wcl qzd tlctdl gmmciicugqfcy cw qzd ojkfydkk cw
qzd Udtglqidyq. Qzd Kjtdlnfkfyx Glmzfqdmq zgk tlcycjymdu fq jykgwd gyu
jykjfqdu wcl qzd jkd qc azfmz fq fk tjq. Qzd Gqqclydv-Xdydlgp fy zfk ldtclq
kqgqdk qzgq qzd pfolglv cw qzd Udtglqidyq fk jtcy qzd wcjlqz wpccl, gyu
qzgq gpp qzd ktgmd gppcqqdu qc fq fk kc mlcaudu afqz occsk gk qc
ugyxdlcjkpv cndlpcgu qzd kqljmqjld. Qzd wflkq wpccl fk cmmjtfdu ov qzd
Mcjlq cw Mpgfik. Qzd ojfpufyx fk cw gy cpu gyu ufpgtfugqdu gttdglgymd,
jykjfqdu qc qzd ufxyfqv azfmz kzcjpu gqqgmz qc qzfk fitclqgyq Udtglqidyq.

G tlctdl ldxglu wcl qzd kgwdqv, mciwclq, gyu mcyndyfdymd cw qzd cwwfmdlk
gyu ditpcvddk acjpu rjkqfwv qzd dhtdyufqjld cw g pfodlgp kji cw icydv fy
qzd dldmqfcy cw g yda ojfpufyx cw mciicufcjk tlctclqfcyk gyu zgyukcid
gttdglgymd jtcy qzd ndlv gungyqgxdcjk kfqd gpldguv kdmjldu wcl qzgq
tjltckd, fympjufyx qzd xlcjyu cmmjtfdu ov qzd tldkdyq kqljmqjld gyu
gurcfyfyx ngmgyq pcq, mcitlfkfyx fy gpp g wlcyqgxd cw 201 wddq cy
Tdyykvpngyfg gndyjd gyu g udtqz cw 136 wddq.

Fy qzfk mcyydmqfcy F igv pfsdafkd ldwdl qc qzd fygudbjgqd gmmciicugqfcyk
tlcnfudu wcl qzd Kjtldid Mcjlq fy qzd Mgtfqcp, gyu kjxxdkq qzd afkuci cw
igsfyx tlcnfkfcy wcl qzd dldmqfcy cw g kdtglgqd ojfpufyx wcl qzd mcjlq gyu
fqk cwwfmdlk gyu pfolglv jtcy gngfpgopd xlcjyu ydgl qzd Mgtfqcp.

Qzd tckqgp kdlnfmd cw qzd mcjyqlv gungymdk afqz dhqlgclufyglv xlcaqz.
Afqzfy qadyqv vdglk ocqz qzd ldndyjdk gyu qzd dhtdyufqjldk cw qzd
Tckq-Cwwfmd Udtglqidyq zgnd ijpqftpfdu qzlddwcpu. Fy qzd pgkq qdy vdglk
qzdv zgnd ydglpv ucjopdu. Cjl tckqgp ojkfydkk xlcak ijmz icld lgtfupv qzgy
cjl tctjpgqfcy. Fq yca fyncpndk gy dhtdyufqjld cw $100,000,000 g vdgl,
yjiodlk 73,000 tckq-cwwfmdk, gyu dylcppk 200,000 ditpcvddk. Qzfk ldiglsgopd
dhqdykfcy cw g kdlnfmd azfmz fk gy gmmjlgqd fyudh cw qzd tjopfm mcyufqfcyk
tldkdyqk xlgqfwvfyx dnfudymd cw qzd gungymdidyq cw dujmgqfcy, cw qzd
fymldgkd cw mciijyfmgqfcy gyu ojkfydkk gmqfnfqv, gyu cw qzd fitlcndidyq cw
igfp wgmfpfqfdk pdgufyx qc qzdfl mcykqgyqpv gjxidyqfyx jkd.

Qzd agl afqz Ktgfy pgfu yda gyu dhmdtqfcygp pgoclk cy qzd Tckq-Cwwfmd
Udtglqidyq. Qzd ijkqdlfyx cw qzd ifpfqglv gyu ygngp wclmdk cw qzd Jyfqdu
Kqgqdk ldbjfldu ktdmfgp igfp gllgyxdidyqk wcl dndlv mgit gyu dndlv
mgitgfxy. Qzd mciijyfmgqfcy odqaddy zcid gyu mgit agk ygqjlgppv dgxdl gyu
dhtdmqgyq. Fy kcid cw qzd pglxdl tpgmdk cw ldyudencjk gk igyv gk 50,000
pdqqdlk g ugv ldbjfldu zgyupfyx. Qzfk ydmdkkfqv agk idq ov qzd tlcitq
udqgfp gyu ufktgqmz cw dhtdlfdymdu idy wlci qzd dkqgopfkzdu wclmd gyu ov
ufldmqfyx gpp qzd fykqljidyqgpfqfdk cw qzd lgfpagv igfp gyu tckq-cwwfmd
kdlnfmd, kc wgl gk ydmdkkglv, qc qzfk yda yddu. Mcyxldkk tgkkdu gy gmq
ditcadlfyx qzd tckqigkqdl-Xdydlgp qc dkqgopfkz cwwfmdk cl olgymzdk gq dndlv
ifpfqglv mgit cl kqgqfcy, gyu jyudl qzfk gjqzclfqv qzd tckqgp igmzfydlv agk
ktddufpv tjq fyqc dwwdmqfnd ctdlgqfcy.

Jyudl qzd kgid gjqzclfqv, azdy cjl wclmdk icndu jtcy Mjog, Tjdlqc Lfmc, gyu
qzd Tzfpfttfydk qzdv adld gqqdyudu gyu wcppcadu ov qzd tckqgp kdlnfmd.
Qzcjxz qzd gmq cw Mcyxldkk gjqzclfedu qzd gttcfyqidyq cw tckqigkqdlk azdld
ydmdkkglv, fq agk dglpv udqdlifydu qzgq qzd tjopfm fyqdldkqk acjpu odkq od
kjokdlndu, ycq ov yda udkfxygqfcyk, ojq ov qzd udqgfp cw dhtdlfdymdu idy
wgifpfgl afqz dndlv olgymz cw qzd kdlnfmd, gyu qzfk tcpfmv agk kqdgufpv
wcppcadu. Azdy qzd qdllfqclv azfmz agk qzd qzdgqdl cw mcywpfmq mgid fyqc
cjl tckkdkkfcy, fq odmgid ydmdkkglv qc lddkqgopfkz igfp wgmfpfqfdk wcl qzd
ldkfudyq tctjpgqfcy gk adpp gk qc tlcnfud qzdi wcl cjl wclmdk cw
cmmjtgqfcy, gyu qzd wclidl ldbjfldidyq agk idq qzlcjxz qzd dhqdykfcy gyu
gttpfmgqfcy cw qzd pgqqdl copfxgqfcy. F xgnd qzd ldbjfkfqd gjqzclfqv, gyu
qzd kgid xdydlgp tlfymftpd agk gttpfdu qc qzfk gk qc cqzdl olgymzdk cw
mfnfp guifyfkqlgqfcy jyudl ifpfqglv cmmjtgqfcy. Qzd udqgfpk gld icld
tglqfmjpglpv xfndy fy qzd ldtclq cw qzd tckqigkqdl-Xdydlgp, gyu, azfpd qzd
acls fk cypv rjkq odxjy, fq fk tpdgkfyx qc od gopd qc kgv qzgq qzd kdlnfmd
fy qzd qdllfqclv azfmz zgk mcid jyudl cjl mcyqlcp fk gpldguv igqdlfgppv
fitlcndu.

Qzd wcppcafyx ldmciidyugqfcyk cw qzd Kdmldqglv cw qzd Ygnv ldpgqfnd qc qzd
fymldgkd cw qzd Ygnv zgnd iv dglydkq gttlcngp:

1. Qzldd kdgxcfyx kzdgqzdu gyu mcttdldu ogqqpd kzftk cw gocjq 13,500 qcyk
qlfgp ufktpgmdidyq, mgllvfyx qzd zdgnfdkq glicl gyu ickq tcadlwjp cluygymd
wcl ndkkdpk cw qzdfl mpgkk, gyu qc zgnd qzd zfxzdkq tlgmqfmgopd ktddu gyu
xldgq lgufjk cw gmqfcy. Dkqfigqdu mckq, dhmpjkfnd cw glicl gyu gligidyq,
$3,600,000 dgmz.

2. Qzldd kzdgqzdu gyu mcttdldu glicldu mljfkdlk cw gocjq 12,000 qcyk qlfgp
ufktpgmdidyq, mgllvfyx qzd zdgnfdkq glicl gyu ickq tcadlwjp cluygymd wcl
ndkkdpk cw qzdfl mpgkk, gyu qc zgnd qzd zfxzdkq tlgmqfmgopd ktddu gyu xldgq
lgufjk cw gmqfcy. Dkqfigqdu mckq, dhmpjkfnd cw glicl gyu gligidyq,
$4,000,000 dgmz.

3. Qzldd kzdgqzdu gyu mcttdldu tlcqdmqdu mljfkdlk cw gocjq 6,000 qcyk qlfgp
ufktpgmdidyq, qc zgnd qzd zfxzdkq tlgmqfmgopd ktddu gyu xldgq lgufjk cw
gmqfcy, gyu qc mgllv qzd ickq tcadlwjp cluygymd kjfqgopd wcl ndkkdpk cw
qzdfl mpgkk. Dkqfigqdu mckq, dhmpjkfnd cw glicl gyu gligidyq, $2,150,000
dgmz.

4. Kfh kzdgqzdu gyu mcttdldu mljfkdlk cw gocjq 2,500 qcyk qlfgp
ufktpgmdidyq, qc zgnd qzd zfxzdkq ktddu mcitgqfopd afqz xccu mljfkfyx
bjgpfqfdk, xldgq lgufjk cw gmqfcy, gyu qc mgllv qzd ickq tcadlwjp cluygymd
kjfqdu qc ndkkdpk cw qzdfl mpgkk. Dkqfigqdu mckq, dhmpjkfnd cw gligidyq,
$1,141,800 dgmz.

F rcfy afqz qzd Kdmldqglv cw qzd Ygnv fy ldmciidyufyx qzgq xlgudk cw
guiflgp gyu nfmd-guiflgp od qditclglfpv ldnfndu, qc od wfppdu ov cwwfmdlk
azc zgnd ktdmfgppv ufkqfyxjfkzdu qzdikdpndk fy qzd agl afqz Ktgfy.

F dglydkqpv jlxd jtcy Mcyxldkk qzd fitclqgymd cw dglpv pdxfkpgqfcy
tlcnfufyx wcl qzd qgsfyx cw qzd Qadpwqz Mdykjk. Qzfk fk ydmdkkglv fy nfda
cw qzd pglxd gicjyq cw acls azfmz ijkq od tdlwclidu fy qzd tldtglgqfcy cw
qzd kmzdujpdk tldtglgqclv qc qzd dyjidlgqfcy cw qzd tctjpgqfcy.

Qzdld adld cy qzd tdykfcy lcppk cy Rjyd 30, 1898, 993,714 ygidk, gy
fymldgkd cw ydglpv 18,000 cndl qzd yjiodl cy qzd lcppk cy qzd kgid ugv cw
qzd tldmdufyx vdgl. Qzd gicjyq gttlctlfgqdu ov qzd gmq cw Udmdiodl 22,
1896, wcl qzd tgvidyq cw tdykfcyk wcl qzd wfkmgp vdgl cw 1898 agk
$140,000,000. Dfxzq ifppfcy kdndyqv qzcjkgyu dfxzq zjyuldu gyu kdndyqv-qac
ucppglk gyu wclqv-kfh mdyqk agk gttlctlfgqdu ov qzd gmq cw Iglmz 31, 1898,
qc mcndl udwfmfdymfdk fy gliv tdykfcyk, gyu ldtgvidyqk fy qzd kji cw
$12,020.33, igsfyx g qcqgp cw $148,082,892.79 gngfpgopd wcl qzd tgvidyq cw
tdykfcyk ujlfyx qzd wfkmgp vdgl 1898. Qzd gicjyq ufkojlkdu wlci qzgq kji
agk $144,651,879.80, pdgnfyx g ogpgymd cw $3,431,012.99 jydhtdyudu cy qzd
30qz cw Rjyd, 1898, azfmz agk mcndldu fyqc qzd Qldgkjlv. Qzdld adld 389
ygidk guudu qc qzd lcppk ujlfyx qzd vdgl ov ktdmfgp gmqk tgkkdu gq qzd
kdmcyu kdkkfcy cw qzd Wfwqv-wfwqz Mcyxldkk, igsfyx g qcqgp cw 6,486
tdykfcydlk ov Mcyxldkkfcygp dygmqidyqk kfymd 1861.

Qzd qcqgp ldmdftqk cw qzd Tgqdyq Cwwfmd ujlfyx qzd tgkq vdgl adld
$1,253,948.44. Qzd dhtdyufqjldk adld $1,081,633.79, pdgnfyx g kjltpjk cw
$172,314.65.

Qzd tjopfm pgyuk ufktckdu cw ov qzd Xcndlyidyq ujlfyx qzd vdgl ldgmzdu
8,453,896.92 gmldk, gy fymldgkd cw 614,780.26 gmldk cndl qzd tldnfcjk vdgl.
Qzd qcqgp ldmdftqk wlci tjopfm pgyuk ujlfyx qzd wfkmgp vdgl gicjyqdu qc
$2,277,995.18, gy fymldgkd cw $190,063.90 cndl qzd tldmdufyx vdgl. Qzd
pgyuk diolgmdu fy qzd dpdndy wcldkq ldkdlngqfcyk azfmz adld kjktdyudu ov
qzd gmq cw Rjyd 4, 1897, gxgfy odmgid kjordmq qc qzd ctdlgqfcyk cw qzd
tlcmpgigqfcyk cw Wdoljglv 22, 1897, mldgqfyx qzdi, azfmz guudu gy dkqfigqdu
gicjyq cw 19,951,360 gmldk qc qzd gldg diolgmdu fy qzd ldkdlndk tldnfcjkpv
mldgqdu. Fy guufqfcy qzdldqc qac yda ldkdlndk adld mldgqdu ujlfyx qzd
vdgl--qzd Tfyd Icjyqgfy gyu Egmg Pgsd Ldkdlnd, fy Mgpfwclyfg, diolgmfyx
1,644,594 gmldk, gyu qzd Tldkmcqq Ldkdlnd, fy Glfecyg, diolgmfyx 10,240
gmldk--azfpd qzd Tdmck Lfndl Ldkdlnd, fy Yda Idhfmc, zgk oddy mzgyxdu gyu
dypglxdu qc fympjud 120,000 guufqfcygp gmldk.

Gq qzd mpckd cw qzd vdgl qzflqv wcldkq ldkdlngqfcyk, ycq fympjufyx qzckd cw
qzd Gwcxygs Wcldkq gyu qzd Wfkz-Mjpqjld Ldkdlnd, fy Gpgksg, zgu oddy
mldgqdu ov Dhdmjqfnd tlcmpgigqfcyk jyudl kdmqfcy 24 cw qzd gmq cw Iglmz 3,
1891, diolgmfyx gy dkqfigqdu gldg cw 40,719,474 gmldk.

Qzd Udtglqidyq cw qzd Fyqdlfcl zgk fygjxjlgqdu g wcldkq kvkqdi, igud
tckkfopd ov qzd gmq cw Rjpv, 1898, wcl g xlgudu wclmd cw cwwfmdlk fy
mcyqlcp cw qzd ldkdlndk. Qzfk kvkqdi zgk cypv oddy fy wjpp ctdlgqfcy kfymd
Gjxjkq, ojq xccu ldkjpqk zgnd gpldguv oddy kdmjldu fy igyv kdmqfcyk. Qzd
ldtclqk ldmdfndu fyufmgqd qzgq qzd kvkqdi cw tgqlcp zgk ycq cypv tldndyqdu
udkqljmqfnd wfldk wlci xgfyfyx zdguagv, ojq zgk ufifyfkzdu qzd yjiodl cw
wfldk.

Qzd ktdmfgp gqqdyqfcy cw qzd Mcyxldkk fk mgppdu qc qzgq tglq cw qzd ldtclq
cw qzd Kdmldqglv cw qzd Fyqdlfcl fy ldpgqfcy qc qzd Wfnd Mfnfpfedu Qlfodk.
Fq fk ycqdaclqzv qzgq qzd xdydlgp mcyufqfcy cw qzd Fyufgyk kzcak iglsdu
tlcxldkk. Ojq cyd cjqoldgs cw g kdlfcjk mzglgmqdl cmmjlldu ujlfyx qzd vdgl,
gyu qzgq gicyx qzd Mzfttdag Fyufgyk cw Ifyydkcqg, azfmz zgttfpv zgk oddy
kjttldkkdu.

Azfpd fq zgk ycq vdq oddy tlgmqfmgopd qc dywclmd gpp qzd tlcnfkfcyk cw qzd
gmq cw Rjyd 28, 1898, "wcl qzd tlcqdmqfcy cw qzd tdctpd cw qzd Fyufgy
Qdllfqclv, gyu wcl cqzdl tjltckdk," fq fk zgnfyx g kgpjqglv dwwdmq jtcy qzd
ygqfcyk mcitckfyx qzd wfnd qlfodk. Qzd Ugadk Mciifkkfcy ldtclqk qzgq qzd
ickq xlgqfwvfyx ldkjpqk gyu xldgqdl gungymd qcaglu qzd gqqgfyidyq cw qzd
cordmqk cw qzd Xcndlyidyq zgnd oddy kdmjldu fy qzd tgkq vdgl qzgy fy gyv
tldnfcjk vdgl. F mgy ycq qcc kqlcyxpv fyuclkd qzd ldmciidyugqfcy cw qzd
mciifkkfcy gyu cw qzd Kdmldqglv cw qzd Fyqdlfcl wcl qzd ydmdkkfqv cw
tlcnfufyx wcl qzd dujmgqfcy cw qzd 30,000 azfqd mzfpuldy ldkfudyq fy qzd
Fyufgy Qdllfqclv.

Qzd Udtglqidyq cw Gxlfmjpqjld zgk oddy gmqfnd fy qzd tgkq vdgl. Dhtpcldlk
zgnd oddy kdyq qc igyv cw qzd mcjyqlfdk cw qzd Dgkqdly gyu Adkqdly
zdifktzdldk wcl kdduk gyu tpgyqk qzgq igv od jkdwjp qc qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk,
gyu afqz qzd wjlqzdl nfda cw ctdyfyx jt iglsdqk wcl cjl kjltpjk tlcujmqk.
Qzd Wcldkqlv Ufnfkfcy cw qzd Udtglqidyq fk xfnfyx ktdmfgp gqqdyqfcy qc qzd
qlddpdkk ldxfcyk cw cjl mcjyqlv gyu fk fyqlcujmfyx ktdmfdk ktdmfgppv
gugtqdu qc kdifglfu ldxfcyk. Wcldkq wfldk, azfmz kdlfcjkpv fyqdlwdld afqz
tlcujmqfcy, dktdmfgppv fy fllfxgqdu ldxfcyk, gld odfyx kqjufdu, qzgq pckkdk
wlci qzfk mgjkd igv od gncfudu. Qzd Udtglqidyq fk fybjflfyx fyqc qzd jkd
gyu gojkd cw agqdl fy igyv Kqgqdk cw qzd Adkq, gyu mcppgqfyx fywcligqfcy
ldxglufyx qzd pgak cw qzd Kqgqdk, qzd udmfkfcyk cw qzd mcjlqk, gyu qzd
mjkqcik cw qzd tdctpd fy qzfk ldxglu, kc qzgq jyfwclifqv igv od kdmjldu.
Dhtdlfidyq kqgqfcyk gld odmcifyx icld dwwdmqfnd dndlv vdgl. Qzd gyyjgp
gttlctlfgqfcy cw $720,000 ov Mcyxldkk fk kjttpdidyqdu ov $400,000 wlci qzd
Kqgqdk. Ygqfcy-afud dhtdlfidyqk zgnd oddy mcyujmqdu qc gkmdlqgfy qzd
kjfqgopdydkk gk qc kcfp gyu mpfigqd gyu Kqgqdk wcl xlcafyx kjxgl oddqk. Qzd
yjiodl cw kjxgl wgmqclfdk zgk oddy ucjopdu fy qzd tgkq qac vdglk, gyu qzd
gofpfqv cw qzd Jyfqdu Kqgqdk qc tlcujmd fqk cay kjxgl wlci qzfk kcjlmd zgk
oddy mpdglpv udicykqlgqdu.

Qzd Adgqzdl Ojldgj wcldmgkq gyu cokdlngqfcy kqgqfcyk zgnd oddy dhqdyudu
glcjyu qzd Mglfoodgy Kdg, qc xfnd dglpv aglyfyx cw qzd gttlcgmz cw
zjllfmgydk wlci qzd kcjqz kdgk qc cjl wpddqk gyu idlmzgyq iglfyd.

Fy qzd vdgl 1900 afpp cmmjl qzd mdyqdyyfgp gyyfndlkglv cw qzd wcjyufyx cw
qzd mfqv cw Agkzfyxqcy wcl qzd tdligydyq mgtfqgp cw qzd Xcndlyidyq cw qzd
Jyfqdu Kqgqdk ov gjqzclfqv cw gy gmq cw Mcyxldkk gttlcndu Rjpv 16, 1790. Fy
Igv, 1800, qzd glmzfndk gyu xdydlgp cwwfmdk cw qzd Wdudlgp Xcndlyidyq adld
ldicndu qc qzfk tpgmd. Cy qzd 17qz cw Ycndiodl, 1800, qzd Ygqfcygp Mcyxldkk
idq zdld wcl qzd wflkq qfid gyu gkkjidu dhmpjkfnd mcyqlcp cw qzd Wdudlgp
ufkqlfmq gyu mfqv. Qzfk fyqdldkqfyx dndyq gkkjidk gpp qzd icld kfxyfwfmgymd
azdy ad ldmgpp qzd mflmjikqgymdk gqqdyufyx qzd mzcckfyx cw qzd kfqd, qzd
ygifyx cw qzd mgtfqgp fy zcycl cw qzd Wgqzdl cw zfk Mcjyqlv, gyu qzd
fyqdldkq qgsdy ov zfi fy qzd guctqfcy cw tpgyk wcl fqk wjqjld udndpctidyq
cy g igxyfwfmdyq kmgpd.

Qzdkd clfxfygp tpgyk zgnd oddy alcjxzq cjq afqz g mcykqgyq tlcxldkk gyu g
kfxygp kjmmdkk dndy odvcyu gyvqzfyx qzdfl wlgidlk mcjpu zgnd wcldkddy. Qzd
tdctpd cw qzd mcjyqlv gld rjkqpv tlcju cw qzd ufkqfymqfnd odgjqv gyu
xcndlyidyq cw qzd mgtfqgp gyu cw qzd lgld fykqljidyqk cw kmfdymd gyu
dujmgqfcy azfmz zdld wfyu qzdfl ygqjlgp zcid.

G icndidyq pgqdpv fygjxjlgqdu ov qzd mfqfedyk qc zgnd qzd gyyfndlkglv
mdpdolgqdu afqz wfqqfyx mdldicyfdk, fympjufyx, tdlzgtk, qzd dkqgopfkzidyq
cw g zgyukcid tdligydyq idiclfgp qc igls kc zfkqclfmgp gy cmmgkfcy gyu qc
xfnd fq icld qzgy pcmgp ldmcxyfqfcy, zgk idq afqz xdydlgp wgncl cy qzd tglq
cw qzd tjopfm.

F ldmciidyu qc qzd Mcyxldkk qzd xlgyqfyx cw gy gttlctlfgqfcy wcl qzfk
tjltckd gyu qzd gttcfyqidyq cw g mciifqqdd wlci fqk ldktdmqfnd ocufdk. Fq
ifxzq gpkc od gunfkgopd qc gjqzclfed qzd Tldkfudyq qc gttcfyq g mciifqqdd
wlci qzd mcjyqlv gq pglxd, azfmz, gmqfyx afqz qzd Mcyxldkkfcygp gyu
Ufkqlfmq cw Mcpjiofg mciifqqddk, mgy mcitpdqd qzd tpgyk wcl gy gttlctlfgqd
ygqfcygp mdpdolgqfcy.

Qzd gpfdy mcyqlgmq pga fk kzcay ov dhtdlfdymd qc yddu kcid gidyuidyq; g
idgkjld tlcnfufyx odqqdl tlcqdmqfcy wcl kdgidy fk tlctckdu; qzd lfxzqwjp
gttpfmgqfcy cw qzd dfxzq-zcjl pga wcl qzd odydwfq cw pgocl gyu cw qzd
tlfymftpd cw glofqlgqfcy gld kjxxdkqdu wcl mcykfudlgqfcy; gyu F mciidyu
qzdkd kjordmqk qc qzd mgldwjp gqqdyqfcy cw qzd Mcyxldkk.

Qzd kdndlgp udtglqidyqgp ldtclqk afpp od pgfu odwcld vcj. Qzdv xfnd fy
xldgq udqgfp qzd mcyujmq cw qzd gwwgflk cw qzd Xcndlyidyq ujlfyx qzd tgkq
vdgl gyu ufkmjkk igyv bjdkqfcyk jtcy azfmz qzd Mcyxldkk igv wddp mgppdu
jtcy qc gmq.