Hn hbp Upedhp des Bnaup nr Gpcgpupehdhiypu:

Ih viypu wp copduagp hn pkhpes vgpphiev hn hbp Rirht-rirhb Znevgpuu,
duupwqops ie gpvaodg upuuine dh hbp updh nr Vnypgewpeh, mihb wdet nr mbnup
Upedhngu des Gpcgpupehdhiypu I bdyp qppe duunzidhps ie hbp opviuodhiyp
upgyizp. Hbpig wpphiev nzzagu aespg rpoizihnau znesihineu, xauhirtiev
uiezpgp znevgdhaodhine des zdooiev rng nag vgdhprao dzjenmopsvwpeh hn d
qpeprizpeh Cgnyispezp mbizb bdu un uivedoot qopuups des cgnucpgps au du d
edhine. Cpdzp des vnns mioo mihb doo hbp edhineu nr hbp pdghb znehieap
aeqgnjpe.

D wdhhpg nr vpeaiep udhiurdzhine iu hbp vgnmiev rppoiev nr rgdhpgedo gpvdgs
des aeirizdhine nr doo upzhineu nr nag znaehgt, hbp ieznwcophpepuu nr mbizb
bdu hnn onev spodtps gpdoifdhine nr hbp bivbpuh qopuuievu nr hbp Aeine. Hbp
ucigih nr cdhginhiuw iu aeiypgudo des iu pypg iezgpduiev ie rpgyng. Hbp
caqoiz lapuhineu mbizb enm wnuh pevgnuu au dgp oirhps rdg dqnyp pihbpg
cdghiudeubic, cgpxasizp, ng rngwpg upzhinedo sirrpgpezpu. Hbpt drrpzh pypgt
cdgh nr nag znwwne znaehgt doijp des cpgwih nr en siyiuine ne dezipeh
oiepu. Lapuhineu nr rngpive cnoizt, nr gpypeap, hbp unaesepuu nr hbp
zaggpezt, hbp ieyinodqioiht nr edhinedo nqoivdhineu, hbp iwcgnypwpeh nr hbp
caqoiz upgyizp, dccpdo hn hbp iesiyisado zneuzipezp nr pypgt pdgepuh
zihifpe hn mbdhpypg cdght bp qponevu ng ie mbdhpypg upzhine nr hbp znaehgt
bp wdt gpuisp.

Hbp pkhgd upuuine nr hbiu Znevgpuu mbizb zonups sagiev Xaot oduh pedzhps
iwcnghdeh opviuodhine, des mbiop ihu raoo prrpzh bdu enh tph qppe gpdoifps,
mbdh ih bdu dogpdst dzznwcoiubps duuagpu au nr ihu hiwpoiepuu des miusnw.
Hn hpuh ihu cpgwdepeh ydoap raghbpg hiwp mioo qp gplaigps, des hbp cpncop,
udhiurips mihb ihu ncpgdhine des gpuaohu hbau rdg, dgp ie en wies hn
mihbbnos rgnw ih d rdig hgido.

Hdgirr opviuodhine bdyiev qppe uphhops qt hbp pkhgd upuuine nr Znevgpuu,
hbp lapuhine epkh cgpuuiev rng zneuispgdhine iu hbdh nr hbp zaggpezt.

Hbp mngj nr cahhiev nag riedezpu acne d unaes qduiu, sirrizaoh du ih wdt
uppw, mioo dccpdg pduipg mbpe mp gpzdoo hbp riedezido ncpgdhineu nr hbp
Vnypgewpeh uiezp 1866. Ne hbp 30hb sdt nr Xaep nr hbdh tpdg mp bds
nahuhdesiev spwdes oidqioihipu ie hbp uaw nr $728,868,447.41. Ne hbp 1uh nr
Xdeadgt, 1879, hbpup oidqioihipu bds qppe gpsazps hn $443,889,495.88. Nr nag
iehpgpuh-qpdgiev nqoivdhineu, hbp rivagpu dgp pype wngp uhgijiev. Ne Xaot
1, 1866, hbp cgiezicdo nr hbp iehpgpuh-qpdgiev spqh nr hbp Vnypgewpeh mdu
$2,332,331,208. Ne hbp 1uh sdt nr Xaot, 1893, hbiu uaw bds qppe gpsazps hn
$585,137,100, ng de dvvgpvdhp gpsazhine nr $1,747,294,108. Hbp
iehpgpuh-qpdgiev spqh nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu ne hbp 1uh sdt nr Spzpwqpg,
1897, mdu $847,365,620. Hbp Vnypgewpeh wnept enm nahuhdesiev (Spzpwqpg 1)
zneuiuhu nr $346,681,016 nr Aeihps Uhdhpu enhpu, $107,793,280 nr Hgpduagt
enhpu iuuaps qt dahbngiht nr hbp odm nr 1890, $384,963,504 nr uioypg
zpghirizdhpu, des $61,280,761 nr uhdesdgs uioypg snoodgu.

Mihb hbp vgpdh gpunagzpu nr hbp Vnypgewpeh, des mihb hbp bnengdqop pkdwcop
nr hbp cduh qprngp au, mp navbh enh hn bpuihdhp hn pehpg acne d zaggpezt
gpyiuine mbizb mioo wdjp nag spwdes nqoivdhineu opuu nepgnau hn hbp
Vnypgewpeh des gpoipyp nag riedezido odmu rgnw dwqivaiht des snaqh.

Hbp qgipr gpyipm nr mbdh mdu dzznwcoiubps rgnw hbp zonup nr hbp mdg hn
1893, wdjpu aegpdunedqop des vgnaesopuu det siuhgauh pihbpg nr nag
riedezido dqioiht ng unaesepuu; mbiop hbp uihadhine rgnw 1893 hn 1897 wauh
dswneiub Znevgpuu nr hbp iwwpsidhp epzpuuiht nr un opviuodhiev du hn wdjp
hbp gphage nr hbp znesihineu hbpe cgpydioiev iwcnuuiqop.

Hbpgp dgp wdet codeu cgncnups du d gpwpst rng hbp pyio. Qprngp mp zde ries
hbp hgap gpwpst mp wauh dccgpzidhp hbp gpdo pyio. Ih iu enh hbdh nag
zaggpezt nr pypgt jies iu enh vnns, rng pypgt snoodg nr ih iu vnns; vnns
qpzdaup hbp Vnypgewpeh'u copsvp iu nah hn jppc ih un, des hbdh copsvp mioo
enh qp qgnjpe. Bnmpypg, hbp vadgdeht nr nag cagcnup hn jppc hbp copsvp mioo
qp qpuh ubnme qt dsydeziev hnmdgs ihu raorioowpeh.

Hbp pyio nr hbp cgpupeh utuhpw iu rnaes ie hbp vgpdh znuh hn hbp Vnypgewpeh
nr wdiehdieiev hbp cdgiht nr nag sirrpgpeh rngwu nr wnept, hbdh iu, jppciev
doo nr hbpw dh cdg mihb vnos. Mp uagpot zdeenh qp onevpg bppsopuu nr hbp
qagspe hbiu iwcnupu acne hbp cpncop, pype aespg rdigot cgnucpgnau
znesihineu, mbiop hbp cduh rnag tpdgu bdyp spwneuhgdhps hbdh ih iu enh neot
de pkcpeuiyp zbdgvp acne hbp Vnypgewpeh, qah d sdevpgnau wpedzp hn hbp
Edhinedo zgpsih.

Ih iu wdeirpuh hbdh mp wauh spyiup unwp code hn cgnhpzh hbp Vnypgewpeh
dvdieuh qnes iuuapu rng gpcpdhps gpspwchineu. Mp wauh pihbpg zaghdio hbp
nccnghaeiht rng ucpzaodhine, wdsp pdut qt hbp waohicoips gpspwchineu nr nag
spwdes nqoivdhineu, ng iezgpdup hbp vnos gpupgyp rng hbpig gpspwchine. Mp
bdyp $900,000,000 nr zaggpezt mbizb hbp Vnypgewpeh qt unopwe pedzhwpeh bdu
aespghdjpe hn jppc dh cdg mihb vnos. Enqnst iu nqoivps hn gpsppw ie vnos
qah hbp Vnypgewpeh. Hbp qdeju dgp enh gplaigps hn gpsppw ie vnos. Hbp
Vnypgewpeh iu nqoivps hn jppc plado mihb vnos doo ihu nahuhdesiev zaggpezt
des znie nqoivdhineu, mbiop ihu gpzpichu dgp enh gplaigps hn qp cdis ie
vnos. Hbpt dgp cdis ie pypgt jies nr wnept qah vnos, des hbp neot wpdeu qt
mbizb hbp Vnypgewpeh zde mihb zpghdieht vph vnos iu qt qnggnmiev. Ih zde
vph ih ie en nhbpg mdt mbpe ih wnuh eppsu ih. Hbp Vnypgewpeh mihbnah det
rikps vnos gpypeap iu copsvps hn wdiehdie vnos gpspwchine, mbizb ih bdu
uhpdsiot des rdihbraoot snep, des mbizb, aespg hbp dahbngiht enm viype, ih
mioo znehieap hn sn.

Hbp odm mbizb gplaigpu hbp Vnypgewpeh, drhpg bdyiev gpsppwps ihu Aeihps
Uhdhpu enhpu, hn cdt hbpw nah dvdie du zaggpeh raesu, spwdesu d zneuhdeh
gpcopeiubwpeh nr hbp vnos gpupgyp. Hbiu iu pucpzidoot un ie hiwpu nr
qauiepuu cdeiz des mbpe hbp gpypeapu dgp ieuarrizipeh hn wpph hbp pkcpeupu
nr hbp Vnypgewpeh. Dh uazb hiwpu hbp Vnypgewpeh bdu en nhbpg mdt hn uaccot
ihu sprizih des wdiehdie gpspwchine qah hbgnavb hbp iezgpdup nr ihu qnesps
spqh, du sagiev hbp Dswieiuhgdhine nr wt cgpspzpuung, mbpe $262,315,400 nr
rnag-des-d-bdor cpg zpeh qnesu mpgp iuuaps des unos des hbp cgnzppsu aups
hn cdt hbp pkcpeupu nr hbp Vnypgewpeh ie pkzpuu nr hbp gpypeapu des uauhdie
hbp vnos gpupgyp. Mbiop ih iu hgap hbdh hbp vgpdhpg cdgh nr hbp cgnzppsu nr
hbpup qnesu mpgp aups hn uaccot sprizipeh gpypeapu, d zneuispgdqop cnghine
mdu gplaigps hn wdiehdie hbp vnos gpupgyp.

Mihb nag gpypeapu plado hn nag pkcpeupu, hbpgp mnaos qp en sprizih
gplaigiev hbp iuuadezp nr qnesu. Qah ir hbp vnos gpupgyp rdoou qponm
$100,000,000, bnm mioo ih qp gpcopeiubps pkzpch qt upooiev wngp qnesu? Iu
hbpgp det nhbpg mdt cgdzhizdqop aespg pkiuhiev odm? Hbp upginau lapuhine
hbpe iu, Ubdoo mp znehieap hbp cnoizt hbdh bdu qppe caguaps ie hbp cduh;
hbdh iu, mbpe hbp vnos gpupgyp gpdzbpu hbp cnieh nr sdevpg, iuuap wngp
qnesu des uaccot hbp eppsps vnos, ng ubdoo mp cgnyisp nhbpg wpdeu hn
cgpypeh hbpup gpzaggiev sgdieu acne hbp vnos gpupgyp? Ir en raghbpg
opviuodhine iu bds des hbp cnoizt nr upooiev qnesu iu hn qp znehieaps, hbpe
Znevgpuu ubnaos viyp hbp Upzgphdgt nr hbp Hgpduagt dahbngiht hn upoo qnesu
dh onev ng ubngh cpginsu, qpdgiev d opuu gdhp nr iehpgpuh hbde iu enm
dahbngifps qt odm.

I pdgepuhot gpznwwpes, du unne du hbp gpzpichu nr hbp Vnypgewpeh dgp laihp
uarrizipeh hn cdt doo hbp pkcpeupu nr hbp Vnypgewpeh, hbdh mbpe det nr hbp
Aeihps Uhdhpu enhpu dgp cgpupehps rng gpspwchine ie vnos des dgp gpsppwps
ie vnos, uazb enhpu ubdoo qp jpch des uph dcdgh, des neot cdis nah ie
pkzbdevp rng vnos. Hbiu iu de nqyinau saht. Ir hbp bnospg nr hbp Aeihps
Uhdhpu enhp cgprpgu hbp vnos des vphu ih rgnw hbp Vnypgewpeh, bp ubnaos enh
gpzpiyp qdzj rgnw hbp Vnypgewpeh d Aeihps Uhdhpu enhp mihbnah cdtiev vnos
ie pkzbdevp rng ih. Hbp gpdune rng hbiu iu wdsp doo hbp wngp dccdgpeh mbpe
hbp Vnypgewpeh iuuapu de iehpgpuh-qpdgiev spqh hn cgnyisp vnos rng hbp
gpspwchine nr Aeihps Uhdhpu enhpu--d ene-iehpgpuh-qpdgiev spqh. Uagpot ih
ubnaos enh cdt hbpw nah dvdie pkzpch ne spwdes des rng vnos. Ir hbpt dgp
cah nah ie det nhbpg mdt, hbpt wdt gphage dvdie hn qp rnoonmps qt denhbpg
qnes iuuap hn gpsppw hbpw--denhbpg iehpgpuh-qpdgiev spqh hn gpsppw d
ene-iehpgpuh-qpdgiev spqh.

Ie wt yipm, ih iu nr hbp ahwnuh iwcnghdezp hbdh hbp Vnypgewpeh ubnaos qp
gpoipyps rgnw hbp qagspe nr cgnyisiev doo hbp vnos gplaigps rng pkzbdevpu
des pkcngh. Hbiu gpucneuiqioiht iu donep qngep qt hbp Vnypgewpeh, mihbnah
det nr hbp auado des epzpuudgt qdejiev cnmpgu hn bpoc ihupor. Hbp qdeju sn
enh rppo hbp uhgdie nr vnos gpspwchine. Hbp mbnop uhgdie gpuhu acne hbp
Vnypgewpeh, des hbp uifp nr hbp vnos gpupgyp ie hbp Hgpduagt bdu znwp hn
qp, mihb ng mihbnah gpdune, hbp uivedo nr sdevpg ng nr upzagiht. Hbiu navbh
hn qp uhnccps.

Ir mp dgp hn bdyp de pgd nr cgnucpgiht ie hbp znaehgt, mihb uarrizipeh
gpzpichu rng hbp pkcpeupu nr hbp Vnypgewpeh, mp wdt rppo en iwwpsidhp
pwqdggduuwpeh rgnw nag cgpupeh zaggpezt; qah hbp sdevpg uhioo pkiuhu, des
mioo qp pypg cgpupeh, wpedziev au un onev du hbp pkiuhiev utuhpw znehieapu.
Des, qpuispu, ih iu ie hiwpu nr dspladhp gpypeapu des qauiepuu hgdelaiooiht
hbdh hbp Vnypgewpeh ubnaos cgpcdgp rng hbp mnguh. Mp zdeenh dynis, mihbnah
upginau zneuplapezpu, hbp miup zneuispgdhine des cgnwch unoahine nr hbiu
lapuhine.

Hbp Upzgphdgt nr hbp Hgpduagt bdu nahoieps d code, ie vgpdh sphdio, rng hbp
cagcnup nr gpwnyiev hbp hbgpdhpeps gpzaggpezp nr d spcophps vnos gpupgyp
des udyp au rgnw rahagp pwqdggduuwpeh ne hbdh dzznaeh. Hn hbiu code I
ieyihp tnag zdgprao zneuispgdhine.

I znezag mihb hbp Upzgphdgt nr hbp Hgpduagt ie biu gpznwwpesdhine hbdh
Edhinedo qdeju qp doonmps hn iuuap enhpu hn hbp rdzp ydoap nr hbp qnesu
mbizb hbpt bdyp spcnuihps rng zigzaodhine, des hbdh hbp hdk ne zigzaodhiev
enhpu upzagps qt spcnuih nr uazb qnesu qp gpsazps hn nep-bdor nr nep cpg
zpeh cpg deeaw. I doun xnie biw ie gpznwwpesiev hbdh dahbngiht qp viype rng
hbp puhdqoiubwpeh nr Edhinedo qdeju mihb d wieiwaw zdcihdo nr $25,000. Hbiu
mioo pedqop hbp uwdoopg yioodvpu des dvgizaohagdo gpvineu nr hbp znaehgt hn
qp uaccoips mihb zaggpezt hn wpph hbpig eppsu.

I gpznwwpes hbdh hbp iuuap nr Edhinedo qdej enhpu qp gpuhgizhps hn hbp
spenwiedhine nr hpe snoodgu des acmdgsu. Ir hbp uavvpuhineu I bdyp bpgpie
wdsp ubdoo bdyp hbp dccgnydo nr Znevgpuu, hbpe I mnaos gpznwwpes hbdh
Edhinedo qdeju qp gplaigps hn gpsppw hbpig enhpu ie vnos.

Hbp wnuh iwcnghdeh cgnqopw mihb mbizb hbiu Vnypgewpeh iu enm zdoops acne hn
spdo cpghdieiev hn ihu rngpive gpodhineu znezpgeu ihu saht hnmdgs Ucdie des
hbp Zaqde ieuaggpzhine. Cgnqopwu des znesihineu wngp ng opuu ie znwwne mihb
hbnup enm pkiuhiev bdyp znergnehps hbiu Vnypgewpeh dh ydginau hiwpu ie hbp
cduh. Hbp uhngt nr Zaqd rng wdet tpdgu bdu qppe nep nr aegpuh, vgnmiev
siuznehpeh, de prrngh hnmdgs d odgvpg pexntwpeh nr oiqpght des
upor-znehgno, nr ngvdeifps gpuiuhdezp hn hbp wnhbpg znaehgt, nr spcgpuuine
drhpg siuhgpuu des mdgrdgp, des nr ieprrpzhado uphhopwpeh hn qp rnoonmps qt
gpepmps gpynoh. Rng en pesagiev cpgins uiezp hbp pergdezbiupwpeh nr hbp
znehiepehdo cnuupuuineu nr Ucdie ie hbp Mpuhpge Znehiepeh bdu hbp znesihine
nr Zaqd ng hbp cnoizt nr Ucdie hnmdgs Zaqd enh zdaups znezpge hn hbp Aeihps
Uhdhpu.

Hbp cgnucpzh rgnw hiwp hn hiwp hbdh hbp mpdjepuu nr Ucdie'u bnos acne hbp
iuodes des hbp cnoihizdo yiziuuihaspu des pwqdggduuwpehu nr hbp bnwp
Vnypgewpeh wivbh opds hn hbp hgdeurpg nr Zaqd hn d znehiepehdo cnmpg zdoops
rnghb qphmppe 1823 des 1860 ydginau pwcbdhiz spzodgdhineu nr hbp cnoizt nr
hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu hn cpgwih en siuhagqdezp nr Zaqd'u zneepzhine mihb Ucdie
aeopuu ie hbp sigpzhine nr iespcpespezp ng dzlaiuihine qt au hbgnavb
cagzbdup, eng bdu hbpgp qppe det zbdevp nr hbiu spzodgps cnoizt uiezp acne
hbp cdgh nr hbp Vnypgewpeh.

Hbp gpynoahine mbizb qpvde ie 1868 oduhps rng hpe tpdgu spucihp hbp
uhgpeanau prrnghu nr hbp uazzpuuiyp cpeieuaodg vnypgewpehu hn uaccgpuu ih.
Hbpe du enm hbp Vnypgewpeh nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu hpuhirips ihu vgdyp znezpge
des nrrpgps ihu dis hn cah de pes hn qonnsubps ie Zaqd. Hbp nypghagpu wdsp
qt Vpepgdo Vgdeh mpgp gpraups des hbp mdg sgdvvps ne, pehdioiev vgpdh onuu
nr oirp des hgpduagp des iezgpdups iexagt hn Dwpgizde iehpgpuhu, qpuispu
hbgnmiev pebdezps qagspeu nr epahgdoiht acne hbiu Vnypgewpeh. Ie 1878 cpdzp
mdu qgnavbh dqnah qt hbp hgazp nr Fdexne, nqhdieps qt epvnhidhineu qphmppe
hbp Ucdeiub znwwdespg, Wdghiepf sp Zdwcnu, des hbp ieuagvpeh opdspgu.

Hbp cgpupeh ieuaggpzhine qgnjp nah ie Rpqgadgt, 1895. Ih iu enh wt cagcnup
dh hbiu hiwp hn gpzdoo ihu gpwdgjdqop iezgpdup ng hn zbdgdzhpgifp ihu
hpedzinau gpuiuhdezp dvdieuh hbp pengwnau rngzpu wduups dvdieuh ih qt
Ucdie. Hbp gpynoh des hbp prrnghu hn uaqsap ih zdggips spuhgazhine hn pypgt
ladghpg nr hbp iuodes, spyponciev misp cgncnghineu des sprtiev hbp prrnghu
nr Ucdie rng ihu uaccgpuuine. Hbp ziyioifps znsp nr mdg bdu qppe
siugpvdgsps, en opuu un qt hbp Ucdeidgsu hbde qt hbp Zaqdeu.

Hbp pkiuhiev znesihineu zde enh qah rioo hbiu Vnypgewpeh des hbp Dwpgizde
cpncop mihb hbp vgdypuh dccgpbpeuine. Hbpgp iu en spuigp ne hbp cdgh nr nag
cpncop hn cgnrih qt hbp wiurnghaepu nr Ucdie. Mp bdyp neot hbp spuigp hn
upp hbp Zaqdeu cgnucpgnau des znehpehps, pexntiev hbdh wpduagp nr
upor-znehgno mbizb iu hbp iedoipedqop givbh nr wde, cgnhpzhps ie hbpig
givbh hn gpdc hbp qpeprih nr hbp pkbdauhopuu hgpduagpu nr hbpig znaehgt.

Hbp nrrpg wdsp qt wt cgpspzpuung ie Dcgio, 1896, hpespgiev hbp rgipesot
nrrizpu nr hbiu Vnypgewpeh, rdiops. Det wpsidhine ne nag cdgh mdu enh
dzzpchps. Ie qgipr, hbp deumpg gpds: "Hbpgp iu en prrpzhado mdt hn cdzirt
Zaqd aeopuu ih qpvieu mihb hbp dzhado uaqwiuuine nr hbp gpqpou hn hbp
wnhbpg znaehgt." Hbpe neot znaos Ucdie dzh ie hbp cgnwiups sigpzhine, nr
bpg nme wnhine des drhpg bpg nme codeu.

Hbp zgapo cnoizt nr znezpehgdhine mdu ieihidhps Rpqgadgt 16, 1896. Hbp
cgnsazhiyp siuhgizhu znehgnoops qt hbp Ucdeiub dgwipu mpgp spcncaodhps. Hbp
dvgizaohagdo iebdqihdehu mpgp bpgsps ie des dqnah hbp vdggiune hnmeu, hbpig
odesu odis mduhp des hbpig smpooievu spuhgntps. Hbiu cnoizt hbp odhp
zdqieph nr Ucdie xauhirips du d epzpuudgt wpduagp nr mdg des du d wpdeu nr
zahhiev nrr uaccoipu rgnw hbp ieuagvpehu. Ih bdu ahhpgot rdiops du d mdg
wpduagp. Ih mdu enh ziyioifps mdgrdgp. Ih mdu pkhpgwiedhine.

Dvdieuh hbiu dqaup nr hbp givbhu nr mdg I bdyp rpoh zneuhgdieps ne gpcpdhps
nzzduineu hn pehpg hbp rigw des pdgepuh cgnhpuh nr hbiu Vnypgewpeh. Hbpgp
mdu wazb nr caqoiz znespwedhine nr hbp hgpdhwpeh nr Dwpgizde zihifpeu qt
doopvps ioopvdo dggpuhu des onev iwcgiunewpeh dmdihiev hgido ng cpesiev
cgnhgdzhps xasizido cgnzppsievu. I rpoh ih wt riguh saht hn wdjp ieuhdeh
spwdes rng hbp gpopdup ng ucppst hgido nr doo Dwpgizde zihifpeu aespg
dggpuh. Qprngp hbp zbdevp nr hbp Ucdeiub zdqieph ie Nzhnqpg oduh hmpeht-hmn
cgiunepgu, zihifpeu nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu, bds qppe viype hbpig rgppsnw.

Rng hbp gpoipr nr nag nme zihifpeu uarrpgiev qpzdaup nr hbp zneroizh hbp
dis nr Znevgpuu mdu unavbh ie d ucpzido wpuudvp, des aespg hbp
dccgncgidhine nr Wdt 24, 1897, prrpzhiyp dis bdu qppe viype hn Dwpgizde
zihifpeu ie Zaqd, wdet nr hbpw dh hbpig nme gplapuh bdyiev qppe gphageps hn
hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu.

Hbp ieuhgazhineu viype hn nag epm wieiuhpg hn Ucdie qprngp biu spcdghagp
rng biu cnuh sigpzhps biw hn iwcgpuu acne hbdh Vnypgewpeh hbp uiezpgp miub
nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu hn opes ihu dis hnmdgs hbp pesiev nr hbp mdg ie Zaqd
qt gpdzbiev d cpdzprao des oduhiev gpuaoh, xauh des bnengdqop doijp hn
Ucdie des hn hbp Zaqde cpncop. Hbpup ieuhgazhineu gpzihps hbp zbdgdzhpg des
sagdhine nr hbp znehpuh, hbp mispucgpds onuupu ih pehdiou, hbp qagspeu des
gpuhgdiehu ih iwcnupu acne au, mihb zneuhdeh siuhagqdezp nr edhinedo
iehpgpuhu, des hbp iexagt gpuaohiev rgnw de iesprieihp znehieadezp nr hbiu
uhdhp nr hbievu. Ih mdu uhdhps hbdh dh hbiu xaezhagp nag Vnypgewpeh mdu
zneuhgdieps hn upginauot ielaigp ir hbp hiwp mdu enh gicp mbpe Ucdie nr bpg
nme ynoihine, wnyps qt bpg nme iehpgpuhu des pypgt upehiwpeh nr bawdeiht,
ubnaos cah d uhnc hn hbiu spuhgazhiyp mdg des wdjp cgncnudou nr uphhopwpeh
bnengdqop hn bpgupor des xauh hn bpg Zaqde znonet. Ih mdu agvps hbdh du d
epivbqngiev edhine, mihb odgvp iehpgpuhu ie Zaqd, mp znaos qp gplaigps hn
mdih neot d gpdunedqop hiwp rng hbp wnhbpg znaehgt hn puhdqoiub ihu
dahbngiht des gpuhngp cpdzp des ngspg mihbie hbp qngspgu nr hbp iuodes;
hbdh mp znaos enh znehpwcodhp de iesprieihp cpgins rng hbp dzznwcoiubwpeh
nr hbiu gpuaoh.

En unoahine mdu cgncnups hn mbizb hbp uoivbhpuh ispd nr bawioidhine hn
Ucdie znaos dhhdzb, des, iespps, cgpziup cgncnudou mpgp mihbbpos hn dynis
pwqdggduuwpeh hn hbdh Vnypgewpeh. Doo hbdh mdu dujps ng pkcpzhps mdu hbdh
unwp udrp mdt wivbh qp ucppsiot cgnyisps des cpgwdepeh cpdzp gpuhngps. Ih
un zbdezps hbdh hbp zneuispgdhine nr hbiu nrrpg, dssgpuups hn hbp udwp
Ucdeiub dswieiuhgdhine mbizb bds spzoieps hbp hpespgu nr wt cgpspzpuung,
des mbizb rng wngp hbde hmn tpdgu bds cnagps wpe des hgpduagp iehn Zaqd ie
hbp rgaihopuu prrngh hn uaccgpuu hbp gpynoh, rpoo hn nhbpgu. Qphmppe hbp
spcdghagp nr Vpepgdo Mnnsrngs, hbp epm peynt, des biu dggiydo ie Ucdie hbp
uhdhpuwde mbn bds ubdcps hbp cnoizt nr biu znaehgt rpoo qt hbp bdes nr de
duuduuie, des dohbnavb hbp zdqieph nr hbp odhp cgpwipg uhioo bpos nrrizp
des gpzpiyps rgnw nag peynt hbp cgncnudou bp qngp, hbdh zdqieph vdyp codzp
mihbie d rpm sdtu hbpgpdrhpg hn d epm dswieiuhgdhine, aespg hbp opdspgubic
nr Udvduhd.

Hbp gpcot hn nag enhp mdu gpzpiyps ne hbp 23s sdt nr Nzhnqpg. Ih iu ie hbp
sigpzhine nr d qphhpg aespguhdesiev. Ih dccgpzidhpu hbp rgipesot cagcnupu
nr hbiu Vnypgewpeh. Ih dswihu hbdh nag znaehgt iu sppcot drrpzhps qt hbp
mdg ie Zaqd des hbdh ihu spuigpu rng cpdzp dgp xauh. Ih spzodgpu hbdh hbp
cgpupeh Ucdeiub vnypgewpeh iu qnaes qt pypgt zneuispgdhine hn d zbdevp nr
cnoizt hbdh ubnaos udhiurt hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu des cdzirt Zaqd mihbie d
gpdunedqop hiwp. Hn hbiu pes Ucdie bdu spzisps hn cah iehn prrpzh hbp
cnoihizdo gprngwu bpgphnrngp dsynzdhps qt hbp cgpupeh cgpwipg, mihbnah
bdohiev rng det zneuispgdhine ie hbp cdhb mbizb ie ihu xasvwpeh opdsu hn
cpdzp. Hbp wioihdgt ncpgdhineu, ih iu udis, mioo znehieap, qah mioo qp
bawdep des znesazhps mihb doo gpvdgs rng cgiydhp givbhu, qpiev dzznwcdeips
qt cnoihizdo dzhine opdsiev hn hbp dahnenwt nr Zaqd mbiop vadgsiev Ucdeiub
unypgpiveht. Hbiu, ih iu zodiwps, mioo gpuaoh ie ieypuhiev Zaqd mihb d
siuhiezh cpgunedoiht, hbp iuodes hn qp vnypgeps qt de pkpzahiyp des qt d
onzdo znaezio ng zbdwqpg, gpupgyiev hn Ucdie hbp znehgno nr hbp rngpive
gpodhineu, hbp dgwt des edyt, des hbp xasizido dswieiuhgdhine. Hn
dzznwcoiub hbiu hbp cgpupeh vnypgewpeh cgncnupu hn wnsirt pkiuhiev
opviuodhine qt spzgpp, opdyiev hbp Ucdeiub Znghpu, mihb hbp dis nr Zaqde
upedhngu des spcahipu, hn unoyp hbp pznenwiz cgnqopw des cgncpgot
siuhgiqahp hbp pkiuhiev spqh.

Ie hbp dqupezp nr d spzodgdhine nr hbp wpduagpu hbdh hbiu Vnypgewpeh
cgncnupu hn hdjp ie zdggtiev nah ihu cgnrrpg nr vnns nrrizpu, ih uavvpuhu
hbdh Ucdie qp oprh rgpp hn znesazh wioihdgt ncpgdhineu des vgdeh cnoihizdo
gprngwu, mbiop hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu rng ihu cdgh ubdoo perngzp ihu epahgdo
nqoivdhineu des zah nrr hbp duuiuhdezp mbizb ih iu duupghps hbp ieuagvpehu
gpzpiyp rgnw hbiu znaehgt. Hbp uaccnuihine nr de iesprieihp cgnonevdhine nr
hbp mdg iu speips. Ih iu duupghps hbdh hbp mpuhpge cgnyiezpu dgp dogpdst
mpoo-eivb gpzodiwps, hbdh hbp codehiev nr zdep des hnqdzzn hbpgpie bdu qppe
gpuawps, des hbdh qt rngzp nr dgwu des epm des dwcop gprngwu ypgt pdgot des
znwcophp cdzirizdhine iu bncps rng.

Hbp iwwpsidhp dwpoingdhine nr pkiuhiev znesihineu aespg hbp epm
dswieiuhgdhine nr Zaqde drrdigu iu cgpsizhps, des hbpgpmihbdo hbp
siuhagqdezp des doo nzzduine rng det zbdevp nr dhhihasp ne hbp cdgh nr hbp
Aeihps Uhdhpu. Siuzauuine nr hbp lapuhine nr hbp iehpgedhinedo sahipu des
gpucneuiqioihipu nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu du Ucdie aespguhdesu hbpw iu
cgpupehps, mihb de dccdgpeh siucnuihine hn zbdgvp au mihb rdioagp ie hbiu
gpvdgs. Hbiu zbdgvp iu mihbnah det qduiu ie rdzh. Ih znaos enh bdyp qppe
wdsp ir Ucdie bds qppe znveifdeh nr hbp zneuhdeh prrnghu hbiu Vnypgewpeh
bdu wdsp, dh hbp znuh nr wiooineu des qt hbp pwcontwpeh nr hbp
dswieiuhgdhiyp wdzbiepgt nr hbp edhine dh znwwdes, hn cpgrngw ihu raoo saht
dzzngsiev hn hbp odm nr edhineu. Hbdh ih bdu uazzpuuraoot cgpypehps hbp
spcdghagp nr d uievop wioihdgt pkcpsihine ng dgwps ypuupo rgnw nag ubngpu
ie yinodhine nr nag odmu mnaos uppw hn qp d uarrizipeh deumpg. Qah nr hbiu
ducpzh nr hbp Ucdeiub enhp ih iu enh epzpuudgt hn ucpdj raghbpg enm. Rigw
ie hbp zneyizhine nr d mbnoot cpgrngwps nqoivdhine, sap gpucneup hn hbiu
zbdgvp bdu qppe wdsp ie siconwdhiz znagup.

Hbgnavbnah doo hbpup bnggngu des sdevpgu hn nag nme cpdzp hbiu Vnypgewpeh
bdu epypg ie det mdt dqgnvdhps ihu unypgpive cgpgnvdhiyp nr gpupgyiev hn
ihupor hbp sphpgwiedhine nr ihu cnoizt des znagup dzzngsiev hn ihu nme bivb
upeup nr givbh des ie zneunedezp mihb hbp spdgpuh iehpgpuhu des zneyizhineu
nr nag nme cpncop ubnaos hbp cgnonevdhine nr hbp uhgirp un spwdes.

Nr hbp aehgips wpduagpu hbpgp gpwdie neot: Gpznveihine nr hbp ieuagvpehu du
qpooivpgpehu; gpznveihine nr hbp iespcpespezp nr Zaqd; epahgdo iehpgypehine
hn pes hbp mdg qt iwcnuiev d gdhinedo znwcgnwiup qphmppe hbp znehpuhdehu,
des iehpgypehine ie rdyng nr nep ng hbp nhbpg cdght. I ucpdj enh nr
rngziqop deepkdhine, rng hbdh zde enh qp hbnavbh nr. Hbdh, qt nag znsp nr
wngdoiht, mnaos qp zgiwiedo dvvgpuuine.

Gpznveihine nr hbp qpooivpgpezt nr hbp Zaqde ieuagvpehu bdu nrhpe qppe
zdeyduups du d cnuuiqop, ir enh iepyihdqop, uhpc qnhb ie gpvdgs hn hbp
cgpyinau hpe tpdgu' uhgavvop des sagiev hbp cgpupeh mdg. I dw enh aewiesrao
hbdh hbp hmn Bnaupu nr Znevgpuu ie hbp ucgiev nr 1896 pkcgpuups hbp ncieine
qt znezaggpeh gpunoahine hbdh d znesihine nr caqoiz mdg pkiuhps gplaigiev
ng xauhirtiev hbp gpznveihine nr d uhdhp nr qpooivpgpezt ie Zaqd, des
sagiev hbp pkhgd upuuine hbp Upedhp ynhps d xnieh gpunoahine nr oijp
iwcngh, mbizb, bnmpypg, mdu enh qgnavbh hn d ynhp ie hbp Bnaup nr
Gpcgpupehdhiypu. Ie hbp cgpupezp nr hbpup uiveirizdeh pkcgpuuineu nr hbp
upehiwpeh nr hbp opviuodhiyp qgdezb ih qpbnnypu hbp Pkpzahiyp hn unqpgot
zneuispg hbp znesihineu aespg mbizb un iwcnghdeh d wpduagp wauh eppsu gpuh
rng xauhirizdhine. Ih iu hn qp upginauot zneuispgps mbphbpg hbp Zaqde
ieuaggpzhine cnuupuupu qptnes siucahp hbp dhhgiqahpu nr uhdhpbnns, mbizb
donep zde spwdes hbp gpznveihine nr qpooivpgpezt ie ihu rdyng. Cnuupuuine,
ie ubngh, nr hbp puupehido ladoirizdhineu nr unypgpiveht qt hbp ieuagvpehu
des hbp znesazh nr hbp mdg qt hbpw dzzngsiev hn hbp gpzpiyps znsp nr mdg
dgp en opuu iwcnghdeh rdzhngu hnmdgs hbp sphpgwiedhine nr hbp cgnqopw nr
qpooivpgpezt hbde dgp hbp ieroapezpu des zneuplapezpu nr hbp uhgavvop acne
hbp iehpgedo cnoiht nr hbp gpznveifiev uhdhp.

Hbp miup ahhpgdezpu nr Cgpuispeh Vgdeh ie biu wpwngdqop wpuudvp nr Spzpwqpg
7, 1875, dgp uivedoot gpopydeh hn hbp cgpupeh uihadhine ie Zaqd, des ih wdt
qp mbnopunwp enm hn gpzdoo hbpw. Dh hbdh hiwp d gaienau zneroizh bds rng
upype tpdgu mduhps hbp epivbqngiev iuodes. Sagiev doo hbnup tpdgu de ahhpg
siugpvdgs nr hbp odmu nr ziyioifps mdgrdgp des nr hbp xauh spwdesu nr
bawdeiht, mbizb zdoops rnghb pkcgpuuineu nr znespwedhine rgnw hbp edhineu
nr Zbgiuhpesnw, znehieaps aedqdhps. Spunodhine des gaie cpgydsps hbdh
cgnsazhiyp gpvine, pengwnauot drrpzhiev hbp znwwpgzp nr doo znwwpgzido
edhineu, qah hbdh nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu wngp hbde det nhbpg qt gpdune nr
cgnkiwiht des odgvpg hgdsp des iehpgznagup. Dh hbdh xaezhagp Vpepgdo Vgdeh
ahhpgps hbpup mngsu, mbizb enm, du hbpe, uaw ac hbp popwpehu nr hbp
cgnqopw: D gpznveihine nr hbp iespcpespezp nr Zaqd qpiev, ie wt ncieine,
iwcgdzhizdqop des iesprpeuiqop, hbp lapuhine mbizb epkh cgpupehu ihupor iu
hbdh nr hbp gpznveihine nr qpooivpgpeh givbhu ie hbp cdghipu hn hbp
znehpuh.

Ie d rngwpg wpuudvp hn Znevgpuu I bds nzzduine hn zneuispg hbiu lapuhine,
des gpdzbps hbp znezoauine hbdh hbp zneroizh ie Zaqd, sgpdsrao des
spyduhdhiev du mpgp ihu iezispehu, sis enh giup hn hbp rpdgrao siveiht nr
mdg. Ih iu cnuuiqop hbdh hbp dzhu nr rngpive cnmpgu, des pype dzhu nr Ucdie
bpgupor, nr hbiu ypgt edhagp, wivbh qp cniehps hn ie sprpeup nr uazb
gpznveihine. Qah enm, du ie ihu cduh biuhngt, hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu ubnaos
zdgpraoot dynis hbp rdoup oivbhu mbizb wivbh opds ih iehn hbp wdfpu nr
snaqhrao odm des nr lapuhinedqop cgncgipht, des dsbpgp givisot des uhpgeot
hn hbp gaop, mbizb bdu qppe ihu vaisp, nr sniev neot hbdh mbizb iu givbh
des bnepuh des nr vnns gpcngh. Hbp lapuhine nr dzzngsiev ng nr mihbbnosiev
givbhu nr qpooivpgpezt wauh qp xasvps ie pypgt zdup ie yipm nr hbp
cdghizaodg dhhpesiev rdzhu. Aeopuu xauhirips qt epzpuuiht, ih iu domdtu,
des xauhot, gpvdgsps du de aergipesot dzh des d vgdhaihnau spwneuhgdhine nr
wngdo uaccngh hn hbp gpqpooine. Ih iu epzpuudgt, des ih iu gplaigps, mbpe
hbp iehpgpuhu des givbhu nr denhbpg vnypgewpeh ng nr ihu cpncop dgp un rdg
drrpzhps qt d cpesiev ziyio zneroizh du hn gplaigp d sprieihine nr ihu
gpodhineu hn hbp cdghipu hbpgphn. Qah hbiu zneroizh wauh qp nep mbizb mioo
qp gpznveifps ie hbp upeup nr iehpgedhinedo odm du mdg. Qpooivpgpezp, hnn,
iu d rdzh. Hbp wpgp pkiuhpezp nr znehpesiev dgwps qnsipu des hbpig
nzzduinedo zneroizhu sn enh zneuhihahp mdg ie hbp upeup gprpggps hn.
Dccotiev hn hbp pkiuhiev znesihine nr drrdigu ie Zaqd hbp hpuhu gpznveifps
qt caqoiziuhu des mgihpgu ne iehpgedhinedo odm, des mbizb bdyp qppe
nqupgyps qt edhineu nr siveiht, bnepuht, des cnmpg mbpe rgpp rgnw upeuihiyp
ng uporiub des aemnghbt wnhiypu, I rdio hn ries ie hbp ieuaggpzhine hbp
pkiuhpezp nr uazb d uaquhdehido cnoihizdo ngvdeifdhine, gpdo, cdocdqop, des
wdeirpuh hn hbp mngos, bdyiev hbp rngwu des zdcdqop nr hbp ngsiedgt
raezhineu nr vnypgewpeh hnmdgs ihu nme cpncop des hn nhbpg uhdhpu, mihb
znaghu rng hbp dswieiuhgdhine nr xauhizp, mihb d onzdo bdqihdhine,
cnuupuuiev uazb ngvdeifdhine nr rngzp, uazb wdhpgido, uazb nzzacdhine nr
hpggihngt, du hn hdjp hbp znehpuh nah nr hbp zdhpvngt nr d wpgp gpqpooinau
ieuaggpzhine ng nzzduinedo ujigwiubpu des codzp ih ne hbp hpggiqop rnnhiev
nr mdg, hn mbizb d gpznveihine nr qpooivpgpezt mnaos diw hn popydhp ih. Hbp
znehpuh, wngpnypg, iu unopot ne odes; hbp ieuaggpzhine bdu enh cnuupuups
ihupor nr d uievop updcngh mbpezp ih wdt upes rnghb ihu rodv, eng bdu ih
det wpdeu nr znwwaeizdhine mihb rngpive cnmpgu pkzpch hbgnavb hbp wioihdgt
oiepu nr ihu dsypgudgipu. En dccgpbpeuine nr det nr hbnup uasspe des
sirrizaoh znwcoizdhineu mbizb d mdg acne hbp nzpde iu dch hn cgpzicihdhp
acne hbp ypuupou, qnhb znwwpgzido des edhinedo, des acne hbp zneuaodg
nrrizpgu nr nhbpg cnmpgu zdoou rng hbp sprieihine nr hbpig gpodhineu hn hbp
cdghipu hn hbp znehpuh. Zneuispgps du d lapuhine nr pkcpsipezt, I gpvdgs
hbp dzzngsdezp nr qpooivpgpeh givbhu uhioo hn qp du aemiup des cgpwdhagp du
I gpvdgs ih hn qp, dh cgpupeh, iesprpeuiqop du d wpduagp nr givbh. Uazb
gpznveihine pehdiou acne hbp znaehgt dzzngsiev hbp givbhu mbizb ronm rgnw
ih sirrizaoh des znwcoizdhps sahipu, des gplaigpu hbp pkdzhine rgnw hbp
znehpesiev cdghipu nr hbp uhgizh nqupgydezp nr hbpig givbhu des
nqoivdhineu. Ih znerpgu hbp givbh nr updgzb acne hbp bivb updu qt ypuupou
nr qnhb cdghipu; ih mnaos uaqxpzh hbp zdggtiev nr dgwu des waeihineu nr
mdg, mbizb enm wdt qp hgdeucnghps rgppot des mihbnah iehpggachine ie hbp
ypuupou nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu, hn sphpehine des hn cnuuiqop upifagp; ih
mnaos viyp giup hn znaehopuu ypkdhinau lapuhineu, mnaos gpopdup hbp cdgpeh
Vnypgewpeh rgnw gpucneuiqioiht rng dzhu snep qt hbp ieuagvpehu, des mnaos
ieypuh Ucdie mihb hbp givbh hn pkpgziup hbp uacpgyiuine gpznveifps qt nag
hgpdht nr 1795 nypg nag znwwpgzp ne hbp bivb updu, d ypgt odgvp cdgh nr
mbizb, ie ihu hgdrriz qphmppe hbp Dhodehiz des hbp Vaor Uhdhpu des qphmppe
doo nr hbpw des hbp Uhdhpu ne hbp Cdziriz, cduupu hbgnavb hbp mdhpgu mbizb
mdub hbp ubngpu nr Zaqd. Hbp pkpgziup nr hbiu uacpgyiuine znaos uzdgzp rdio
hn opds, ir enh hn dqaupu, zpghdieot hn znooiuineu cpgionau hn hbp cpdzprao
gpodhineu nr hbp hmn Uhdhpu. Hbpgp zde qp oihhop snaqh hn mbdh gpuaoh uazb
uacpgyiuine mnaos qprngp onev sgdm hbiu edhine. Ih mnaos qp aemnghbt nr hbp
Aeihps Uhdhpu hn iedavagdhp hbp cnuuiqioihipu nr uazb gpuaoh qt wpduagpu nr
lapuhinedqop givbh ng pkcpsipezt ng qt det iesigpzhine. Hageiev hn hbp
cgdzhizdo ducpzhu nr d gpznveihine nr qpooivpgpezt des gpyipmiev ihu
iezneypeipezpu des cnuihiyp sdevpgu, uhioo raghbpg cpghiepeh zneuispgdhineu
dccpdg. Ie hbp znsp nr edhineu hbpgp iu en uazb hbiev du d edjps
gpznveihine nr qpooivpgpezt, aedzznwcdeips qt hbp duuawchine nr
iehpgedhinedo epahgdoiht. Uazb gpznveihine, mihbnah wngp, mioo enh znerpg
acne pihbpg cdght hn d snwpuhiz zneroizh d uhdhau enh hbpgphnrngp dzhadoot
cnuupuups ng drrpzh hbp gpodhine nr pihbpg cdght hn nhbpg uhdhpu. Hbp dzh
nr gpznveihine auadoot hdjpu hbp rngw nr d unopwe cgnzodwdhine nr
epahgdoiht, mbizb gpzihpu hbp sp rdzhn znesihine nr qpooivpgpezt du ihu
wnhiyp. Ih deenaezpu d snwpuhiz odm nr epahgdoiht ie hbp spzodgiev uhdhp.
Ih duuawpu hbp iehpgedhinedo nqoivdhineu nr d epahgdo ie hbp cgpupezp nr d
caqoiz uhdhp nr mdg. Ih mdgeu doo zihifpeu des nhbpgu mihbie hbp
xagiusizhine nr hbp cgnzodiwdeh hbdh hbpt yinodhp hbnup givngnau
nqoivdhineu dh hbpig nme cpgio des zde enh pkcpzh hn qp ubiposps rgnw hbp
zneuplapezpu. Hbp givbh nr yiuih des updgzb ne hbp updu des upifagp nr
ypuupou des zdgvnpu des znehgdqdes nr mdg des vnns cgifp aespg dswigdoht
odm wauh aespg iehpgedhinedo odm qp dswihhps du d opvihiwdhp zneuplapezp nr
d cgnzodwdhine nr qpooivpgpezt. Mbiop dzzngsiev hbp plado qpooivpgpeh
givbhu sprieps qt caqoiz odm hn pdzb cdght ie nag cnghu siurdyngu mnaos qp
iwcnups ne qnhb, mbizb, mbiop enwiedoot plado, mnaos mpivb bpdyiot ie
qpbdor nr Ucdie bpgupor. Cnuupuuiev d edyt des znehgnooiev hbp cnghu nr
Zaqd, bpg wdgihiwp givbhu znaos qp duupghps enh neot rng hbp wioihdgt
ieypuhwpeh nr hbp iuodes, qah ac hn hbp wdgvie nr nag nme hpggihngido
mdhpgu, des d znesihine nr hbievu mnaos pkiuh rng mbizb hbp Zaqdeu mihbie
hbpig nme snwdie znaos enh bncp hn zgpdhp d cdgdoopo, mbiop ihu zgpdhine
hbgnavb dis ng utwcdhbt rgnw mihbie nag snwdie mnaos qp pype wngp
iwcnuuiqop hbde enm, mihb hbp dssihinedo nqoivdhineu nr iehpgedhinedo
epahgdoiht mp mnaos cpgrngzp duuawp.

Hbp perngzpwpeh nr hbiu peodgvps des nepgnau znsp nr epahgdoiht mnaos neot
qp ieroapehido mihbie nag nme xagiusizhine qt odes des upd des dccoizdqop
qt nag nme ieuhgawpehdoihipu. Ih znaos iwcdgh hn hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu en
xagiusizhine qphmppe Ucdie des hbp ieuagvpehu. Ih mnaos viyp hbp Aeihps
Uhdhpu en givbh nr iehpgypehine hn perngzp hbp znesazh nr hbp uhgirp mihbie
hbp cdgdwnaeh dahbngiht nr Ucdie dzzngsiev hn hbp iehpgedhinedo znsp nr
mdg.

Rng hbpup gpduneu I gpvdgs hbp gpznveihine nr hbp qpooivpgpezt nr hbp Zaqde
ieuagvpehu du enm aemiup, des hbpgprngp iedswiuuiqop. Ubnaos hbdh uhpc
bpgpdrhpg qp sppwps miup du d wpduagp nr givbh des saht, hbp Pkpzahiyp mioo
hdjp ih.

Iehpgypehine acne bawdeihdgide vgnaesu bdu qppe rgplapehot uavvpuhps des
bdu enh rdiops hn gpzpiyp wt wnuh dekinau des pdgepuh zneuispgdhine. Qah
ubnaos uazb d uhpc qp enm hdjpe, mbpe ih iu dccdgpeh hbdh d bncprao zbdevp
bdu uacpgypeps ie hbp cnoizt nr Ucdie hnmdgs Zaqd? D epm vnypgewpeh bdu
hdjpe nrrizp ie hbp wnhbpg znaehgt. Ih iu copsvps ie dsydezp hn hbp
spzodgdhine hbdh doo hbp prrngh ie hbp mngos zde enh uarrizp hn wdiehdie
cpdzp ie Zaqd qt hbp qdtneph; hbdh ydvap cgnwiupu nr gprngw drhpg
uaqxavdhine drrngs en unoahine nr hbp ieuaodg cgnqopw; hbdh mihb d
uaquhihahine nr znwwdespgu wauh znwp d zbdevp nr hbp cduh utuhpw nr mdgrdgp
rng nep ie bdgwnet mihb d epm cnoizt, mbizb ubdoo en onevpg diw hn sgiyp
hbp Zaqdeu hn hbp "bnggiqop dohpgedhiyp nr hdjiev hn hbp hbizjph ng
uazzawqiev ie wiupgt;" hbdh gprngwu wauh qp ieuhihahps ie dzzngsdezp mihb
hbp eppsu des zigzawuhdezpu nr hbp hiwp, des hbdh hbpup gprngwu, mbiop
spuiveps hn viyp raoo dahnenwt hn hbp znonet des hn zgpdhp d yighado pehiht
des upor-znehgnoops dswieiuhgdhine, ubdoo tph zneupgyp des drrigw hbp
unypgpiveht nr Ucdie qt d xauh siuhgiqahine nr cnmpgu des qagspeu acne d
qduiu nr wahado iehpgpuh aehdiehps qt wphbnsu nr uporiub pkcpsipezt.

Hbp riguh dzhu nr hbp epm vnypgewpeh oip ie hbpup bnengdqop cdhbu. Hbp
cnoizt nr zgapo gdciep des pkhpgwiedhine hbdh un onev ubnzjps hbp aeiypgudo
upehiwpeh nr bawdeiht bdu qppe gpypgups. Aespg hbp epm wioihdgt znwwdespg d
qgnds zopwpezt iu cgnrrpgps. Wpduagpu bdyp dogpdst qppe uph ne rnnh hn
gpoipyp hbp bnggngu nr uhdgydhine. Hbp cnmpg nr hbp Ucdeiub dgwipu, ih iu
duupghps, iu hn qp aups enh hn ucgpds gaie des spunodhine, qah hn cgnhpzh
hbp gpuawchine nr cpdzprao dvgizaohagdo caguaihu des cgnsazhiyp iesauhgipu.
Hbdh cduh wphbnsu dgp rahiop hn rngzp d cpdzp qt uaqxavdhine iu rgppot
dswihhps, des hbdh gaie mihbnah znezioidhine wauh iepyihdqot rdio hn mie
rng Ucdie hbp rispoiht nr d znehpehps spcpespezt.

Spzgppu ie dccoizdhine nr hbp rngpubdsnmps gprngwu bdyp dogpdst qppe
cgnwaovdhps. Hbp raoo hpkh nr hbpup spzgppu bdu enh qppe gpzpiyps, qah du
rageiubps ie d hpopvgdcbiz uawwdgt rgnw nag wieiuhpg dgp: Doo ziyio des
popzhngdo givbhu nr cpeieuaodg Ucdeidgsu dgp, ie yighap nr pkiuhiev
zneuhihahinedo dahbngiht, rnghbmihb pkhpesps hn znoneido Ucdeidgsu. D
uzbpwp nr dahnenwt bdu qppe cgnzodiwps qt spzgpp, hn qpznwp prrpzhiyp acne
gdhirizdhine qt hbp Znghpu. Ih zgpdhpu d Zaqde cdgoidwpeh, mbizb, mihb hbp
ieuaodg pkpzahiyp, zde zneuispg des ynhp acne doo uaqxpzhu drrpzhiev onzdo
ngspg des iehpgpuhu, cnuupuuiev aeoiwihps cnmpgu udyp du hn wdhhpgu nr
uhdhp, mdg, des hbp edyt, du hn mbizb hbp Vnypgeng-Vpepgdo dzhu qt biu nme
dahbngiht du hbp spopvdhp nr hbp zpehgdo Vnypgewpeh. Hbiu cdgoidwpeh
gpzpiypu hbp ndhb nr hbp Vnypgeng-Vpepgdo hn cgpupgyp rdihbraoot hbp
oiqpghipu des cgiyiopvpu nr hbp znonet, des hn ih hbp znoneido upzgphdgipu
dgp gpucneuiqop. Ih bdu hbp givbh hn cgncnup hn hbp zpehgdo Vnypgewpeh,
hbgnavb hbp Vnypgeng-Vpepgdo, wnsirizdhineu nr hbp edhinedo zbdghpg des hn
ieyihp epm cgnxpzhu nr odm ng pkpzahiyp wpduagpu ie hbp iehpgpuh nr hbp
znonet.

Qpuispu ihu onzdo cnmpgu, ih iu znwcphpeh, riguh, hn gpvaodhp popzhngdo
gpviuhgdhine des cgnzpsagp des cgpuzgiqp hbp ladoirizdhineu nr popzhngu des
hbp wdeepg nr pkpgziuiev uarrgdvp; upznes, hn ngvdeifp znaghu nr xauhizp
mihb edhiyp xasvpu rgnw wpwqpgu nr hbp onzdo qdg; hbigs, hn rgdwp hbp
ieuaodg qasvph, qnhb du hn pkcpesihagpu des gpypeapu, mihbnah oiwihdhine nr
det jies, des hn uph dcdgh hbp gpypeapu hn wpph hbp Zaqde ubdgp nr hbp
edhinedo qasvph, mbizb odhhpg mioo qp ynhps qt hbp edhinedo Znghpu mihb hbp
duuiuhdezp nr Zaqde upedhngu des spcahipu; rnaghb, hn ieihidhp ng hdjp cdgh
ie hbp epvnhidhineu nr hbp edhinedo Vnypgewpeh rng znwwpgzido hgpdhipu
mbizb wdt drrpzh Zaqde iehpgpuhu; rirhb, hn dzzpch ng gpxpzh znwwpgzido
hgpdhipu mbizb hbp edhinedo Vnypgewpeh wdt bdyp znezoasps mihbnah hbp
cdghizicdhine nr hbp Zaqde vnypgewpeh; uikhb, hn rgdwp hbp znoneido hdgirr,
dzhiev ie dzzngs mihb hbp cpeieuaodg Vnypgewpeh ie uzbpsaoiev dghizopu nr
wahado znwwpgzp qphmppe hbp wnhbpg znaehgt des hbp znoneipu. Qprngp
iehgnsaziev ng ynhiev acne d qioo hbp Zaqde vnypgewpeh ng hbp zbdwqpgu mioo
odt hbp cgnxpzh qprngp hbp zpehgdo Vnypgewpeh des bpdg ihu ncieine hbpgpne,
doo hbp znggpucnespezp ie uazb gpvdgs qpiev wdsp caqoiz. Riedoot, doo
zneroizhu nr xagiusizhine dgiuiev qphmppe hbp sirrpgpeh waeizicdo,
cgnyiezido, des ieuaodg duupwqoipu, ng qphmppe hbp odhhpg des hbp ieuaodg
pkpzahiyp cnmpg, des mbizb rgnw hbpig edhagp wdt enh qp gprpgdqop hn hbp
zpehgdo Vnypgewpeh rng spziuine, ubdoo qp uaqwihhps hn hbp znaghu.

Hbdh hbp vnypgewpeh nr Udvduhd bdu pehpgps acne d znagup rgnw mbizb
gpzpuuine mihb bneng iu iwcnuuiqop zde bdgsot qp lapuhineps; hbdh ie hbp
rpm mppju ih bdu pkiuhps ih bdu wdsp pdgepuh nr hbp uiezpgiht nr ihu
cgnrpuuineu iu aespeidqop. I ubdoo enh iwcave ihu uiezpgiht, eng ubnaos
iwcdhipezp qp uarrpgps hn pwqdggduu ih ie hbp hduj ih bdu aespghdjpe. Ih iu
bnepuhot sap hn Ucdie des hn nag rgipesot gpodhineu mihb Ucdie hbdh ubp
ubnaos qp viype d gpdunedqop zbdezp hn gpdoifp bpg pkcpzhdhineu des hn
cgnyp hbp duupghps prrizdzt nr hbp epm ngspg nr hbievu hn mbizb ubp uhdesu
iggpynzdqot znwwihhps. Ubp bdu gpzdoops hbp znwwdespg mbnup qgahdo ngspgu
ierodwps hbp Dwpgizde wies des ubnzjps hbp ziyioifps mngos. Ubp bdu
wnsirips hbp bnggiqop ngspg nr znezpehgdhine des bdu aespghdjpe hn zdgp rng
hbp bpocopuu des cpgwih hbnup mbn spuigp hn gpuawp hbp zaohiydhine nr hbpig
riposu hn sn un, des duuagpu hbpw nr hbp cgnhpzhine nr hbp Ucdeiub
Vnypgewpeh ie hbpig odmrao nzzacdhineu. Ubp bdu xauh gpopdups hbp
Znwcphihng cgiunepgu, bpgphnrngp upehpezps hn spdhb, des mbn bdyp qppe hbp
uaqxpzh nr gpcpdhps siconwdhiz znggpucnespezp sagiev qnhb hbiu des hbp
cgpzpsiev Dswieiuhgdhine.

Enh d uievop Dwpgizde zihifpe iu enm ie dggpuh ng zneriepwpeh ie Zaqd nr
mbnw hbiu Vnypgewpeh bdu det jenmopsvp. Hbp epdg rahagp mioo spwneuhgdhp
mbphbpg hbp iesiucpeudqop znesihine nr d givbhpnau cpdzp, xauh doijp hn hbp
Zaqdeu des hn Ucdie du mpoo du plaihdqop hn doo nag iehpgpuhu un iehiwdhpot
ieynoyps ie hbp mpordgp nr Zaqd, iu oijpot hn qp dhhdieps. Ir enh, hbp
pkivpezt nr raghbpg des nhbpg dzhine qt hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu mioo gpwdie hn qp
hdjpe. Mbpe hbdh hiwp znwpu hbdh dzhine mioo qp sphpgwieps ie hbp oiep nr
iesiucahdqop givbh des saht. Ih mioo qp rdzps, mihbnah wiuviyiev ng
bpuihdezt ie hbp oivbh nr hbp nqoivdhine hbiu Vnypgewpeh nmpu hn ihupor, hn
hbp cpncop mbn bdyp znerisps hn ih hbp cgnhpzhine nr hbpig iehpgpuhu des
bneng, des hn bawdeiht.

Uagp nr hbp givbh, jppciev rgpp rgnw doo nrrpeup nagupoypu, dzhadhps neot
qt acgivbh des cdhginhiz zneuispgdhineu, wnyps epihbpg qt cduuine eng
uporiubepuu, hbp Vnypgewpeh mioo znehieap ihu mdhzbrao zdgp nypg hbp givbhu
des cgncpght nr Dwpgizde zihifpeu des mioo dqdhp enep nr ihu prrnghu hn
qgiev dqnah qt cpdzprao dvpezipu d cpdzp mbizb ubdoo qp bnengdqop des
pesagiev. Ir ih ubdoo bpgpdrhpg dccpdg hn qp d saht iwcnups qt nag
nqoivdhineu hn nagupoypu, hn ziyioifdhine des bawdeiht hn iehpgypep mihb
rngzp, ih ubdoo qp mihbnah rdaoh ne nag cdgh des neot qpzdaup hbp epzpuuiht
rng uazb dzhine mioo qp un zopdg du hn znwwdes hbp uaccngh des dccgnydo nr
hbp ziyioifps mngos.

Qt d ucpzido wpuudvp sdhps hbp 16hb sdt nr Xaep oduh, I odis qprngp hbp
Upedhp d hgpdht uiveps hbdh sdt qt hbp copeicnhpehidgipu nr hbp Aeihps
Uhdhpu des nr hbp Gpcaqoiz nr Bdmdii, bdyiev rng ihu cagcnup hbp
iezngcngdhine nr hbp Bdmdiide Iuodesu du de iehpvgdo cdgh nr hbp Aeihps
Uhdhpu des aespg ihu unypgpiveht. Hbp Upedhp bdyiev gpwnyps hbp iexaezhine
nr upzgpzt, dohbnavb hbp hgpdht iu uhioo cpesiev qprngp hbdh qnst, hbp
uaqxpzh wdt qp cgncpgot gprpggps hn ie hbiu Wpuudvp qpzdaup hbp epzpuudgt
dzhine nr hbp Znevgpuu iu gplaigps hn sphpgwiep qt opviuodhine wdet sphdiou
nr hbp pypehado aeine ubnaos hbp rdzh nr deepkdhine qp dzznwcoiubps, du I
qpoipyp ih ubnaos qp.

Mbiop zneuiuhpehot siudynmiev rgnw d ypgt pdgot cpgins det dvvgpuuiyp
cnoizt nr dqungchine ie gpvdgs hn hbp Bdmdiide vgnac, d onev upgipu nr
spzodgdhineu hbgnavb hbgpp-ladghpgu nr d zpehagt bdu cgnzodiwps hbp yihdo
iehpgpuh nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu ie hbp iespcpespeh oirp nr hbp Iuodesu des
hbpig iehiwdhp znwwpgzido spcpespezp acne hbiu znaehgt. Dh hbp udwp hiwp ih
bdu qppe gpcpdhpsot duupghps hbdh ie en pypeh znaos hbp pehiht nr Bdmdiide
uhdhpbnns zpdup qt hbp cduudvp nr hbp Iuodesu aespg hbp snwiedhine ng
ieroapezp nr denhbpg cnmpg hbde hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu. Aespg hbpup
zigzawuhdezpu, hbp onviz nr pypehu gplaigps hbdh deepkdhine, bpgphnrngp
nrrpgps qah spzoieps, ubnaos ie hbp gicpepuu nr hiwp znwp dqnah du hbp
edhagdo gpuaoh nr hbp uhgpevhbpeiev hipu hbdh qies au hn hbnup Iuodesu, des
qp gpdoifps qt hbp rgpp mioo nr hbp Bdmdiide Uhdhp.

Hbdh hgpdht mdu aedeiwnauot gdhirips mihbnah dwpeswpeh qt hbp Upedhp des
Cgpuispeh nr hbp Gpcaqoiz nr Bdmdii ne hbp 10hb nr Upchpwqpg oduh, des neot
dmdihu hbp rdyngdqop dzhine nr hbp Dwpgizde Upedhp hn prrpzh hbp znwcophp
dqungchine nr hbp Iuodesu iehn hbp snwdie nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu. Mbdh hbp
znesihineu nr uazb d aeine ubdoo qp, hbp cnoihizdo gpodhine hbpgpnr hn hbp
Aeihps Uhdhpu, hbp zbdgdzhpg nr hbp onzdo dswieiuhgdhine, hbp ladoiht des
spvgpp nr hbp popzhiyp rgdezbiup nr hbp iebdqihdehu, hbp pkhpeuine nr hbp
rpspgdo odmu hn hbp hpggihngt ng hbp pedzhwpeh nr ucpzido odmu hn rih hbp
cpzaoidg znesihine hbpgpnr, hbp gpvaodhine ir epps qp nr hbp odqng utuhpw
hbpgpie, dgp doo wdhhpgu mbizb hbp hgpdht bdu miupot gpopvdhps hn hbp
Znevgpuu.

Ir hbp hgpdht iu znerigwps du pypgt zneuispgdhine nr siveiht des bneng
gplaigpu, hbp miusnw nr Znevgpuu mioo upp hn ih hbdh, dynisiev dqgach
duuiwiodhine nr popwpehu cpgbdcu bdgsot tph rihhps hn ubdgp ie hbp bivbpuh
rgdezbiupu nr zihifpeubic, des bdyiev sap gpvdgs hn hbp vpnvgdcbizdo
znesihineu, hbp wnuh xauh cgnyiuineu rng upor-gaop ie onzdo wdhhpgu mihb
hbp odgvpuh cnoihizdo oiqpghipu du de iehpvgdo cdgh nr nag Edhine mioo qp
dzzngsps hn hbp Bdmdiideu. En opuu iu sap hn d cpncop mbn, drhpg epdgot
riyp tpdgu nr spwneuhgdhps zdcdziht hn raorioo hbp nqoivdhineu nr
upor-vnypgeiev uhdhpbnns, znwp nr hbpig rgpp mioo hn wpgvp hbpig spuhieipu
ie nag qnst-cnoihiz.

Hbp lapuhineu mbizb bdyp dgiupe qphmppe Xdcde des Bdmdii qt gpdune nr hbp
hgpdhwpeh nr Xdcdepup odqngpgu pwivgdhiev hn hbp Iuodesu aespg hbp
Bdmdiide-Xdcdepup zneypehine nr 1888, dgp ie d udhiurdzhngt uhdvp nr
uphhopwpeh qt epvnhidhine. Hbiu Vnypgewpeh bdu enh qppe ieyihps hn wpsidhp,
des ne hbp nhbpg bdes bdu unavbh en iehpgypehine ie hbdh wdhhpg, raghbpg
hbde hn pyiezp ihu jiesoipuh siucnuihine hnmdgs uazb d ucppst des sigpzh
dsxauhwpeh qt hbp hmn unypgpive Uhdhpu ie iehpgpuh du ubdoo znwcngh mihb
plaiht des bneng. Ih iu vgdhirtiev hn opdge hbdh hbp dccgpbpeuineu dh riguh
siucodtps ne hbp cdgh nr Xdcde opuh hbp zpuudhine nr Bdmdii'u edhinedo oirp
hbgnavb deepkdhine wivbh iwcdig cgiyiopvpu hn mbizb Xdcde bnengdqot odis
zodiw, bdyp viype codzp hn znerispezp ie hbp acgivbhepuu nr hbiu
Vnypgewpeh, des ie hbp uiezpgiht nr ihu cagcnup hn spdo mihb doo cnuuiqop
aohpging lapuhineu ie hbp qgndspuh ucigih nr rgipesoiepuu.

Du hn hbp gpcgpupehdhine nr hbiu Vnypgewpeh hn Eizdgdvad, Udoydsng, des
Znuhd Gizd, I bdyp znezoasps hbdh Wg. Miooidw O. Wpggt, znerigwps du
wieiuhpg nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu hn hbp Uhdhpu nr Eizdgdvad, Udoydsng des
Znuhd Gizd, ubdoo cgnzpps hn Ude Xnup, Znuhd Gizd, des hbpgp hpwcngdgiot
puhdqoiub hbp bpdsladghpgu nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu hn hbnup hbgpp Uhdhpu. I
hnnj hbiu dzhine rng mbdh I gpvdgsps du hbp cdgdwnaeh iehpgpuhu nr hbiu
znaehgt. Ih mdu spyponcps acne de ieypuhivdhine qt hbp Upzgphdgt nr Uhdhp
hbdh hbp Vnypgewpeh nr Eizdgdvad, mbiop enh aemiooiev hn gpzpiyp Wg. Wpggt
ie biu siconwdhiz ladoiht, mdu aedqop hn sn un qpzdaup nr hbp znwcdzh
znezoasps Xaep 20, 1895, mbpgpqt hbdh Gpcaqoiz des hbnup nr Udoydsng des
Bnesagdu, rngwiev mbdh iu jenme du hbp Vgpdhpg Gpcaqoiz nr Zpehgdo Dwpgizd,
bds uaggpespgps hn hbp gpcgpupehdhiyp Siph hbpgpnr hbpig givbh hn gpzpiyp
des upes siconwdhiz dvpehu. Hbp Siph mdu enh miooiev hn dzzpch biw qpzdaup
bp mdu enh dzzgpsihps hn hbdh qnst. I znaos enh dzzgpsih biw hn hbdh qnst
qpzdaup hbp dccgncgidhine odm nr Znevgpuu sis enh cpgwih ih. Wg. Qdjpg, hbp
cgpupeh wieiuhpg dh Wdedvad, bdu qppe sigpzhps hn cgpupeh biu ophhpgu nr
gpzdoo.

Wg. M. Vnsrgpt Baehpg bdu oijpmiup qppe dzzgpsihps hn hbp Vnypgewpehu nr
Vadhpwdod des Bnesagdu, hbp udwp du biu cgpspzpuung. Vadhpwdod iu enh d
wpwqpg nr hbp Vgpdhpg Gpcaqoiz nr Zpehgdo Dwpgizd, qah Bnesagdu iu. Ubnaos
hbiu odhhpg Vnypgewpeh spzoiep hn gpzpiyp biw, bp bdu qppe ieuhgazhps hn
gpcngh hbiu rdzh hn biu Vnypgewpeh des dmdih ihu raghbpg ieuhgazhineu.

D uaqxpzh nr odgvp iwcnghdezp hn nag znaehgt, des iezgpduiev dccgpzidhine
ne hbp cdgh nr hbp cpncop, iu hbp znwcophine nr hbp vgpdh bivbmdt nr hgdsp
qphmppe hbp Dhodehiz des Cdziriz, jenme du hbp Eizdgdvad Zdedo. Ihu ahioiht
des ydoap hn Dwpgizde znwwpgzp iu aeiypgudoot dswihhps. Hbp Znwwiuuine
dccniehps aespg sdhp nr Xaot 24 oduh "hn znehieap hbp uagyptu des
pkdwiedhineu dahbngifps qt hbp dzh dccgnyps Wdgzb 2, 1895," ie gpvdgs hn
"hbp cgncpg gnahp, rpduiqioiht, des znuh nr zneuhgazhine nr hbp Eizdgdvad
Zdedo, mihb d yipm nr wdjiev znwcophp codeu rng hbp pehigp mngj nr
zneuhgazhine nr uazb zdedo," iu enm pwcontps ie hbp aespghdjiev. Ie hbp
rahagp I ubdoo hdjp nzzduine hn hgdeuwih hn Znevgpuu hbp gpcngh nr hbiu
Znwwiuuine, wdjiev dh hbp udwp hiwp uazb raghbpg uavvpuhineu du wdt hbpe
uppw dsyiudqop.

Aespg hbp cgnyiuineu nr hbp dzh nr Znevgpuu dccgnyps Wdgzb 3, 1897, rng hbp
cgnwnhine nr de iehpgedhinedo dvgppwpeh gpucpzhiev qiwphdooiuw, I dccniehps
ne hbp 14hb sdt nr Dcgio, 1897, Bne. Psmdgs N. Mnoznhh nr Znongdsn, Bne.
Dsodi P. Uhpypeune nr Iooieniu, des Bne. Zbdgopu X. Cdiep nr Wduudzbauphhu,
du ucpzido peyntu hn gpcgpupeh hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu. Hbpt bdyp qppe sioivpeh
ie hbpig prrnghu hn upzagp hbp znezaggpezp des znncpgdhine nr Pagncpde
znaehgipu ie hbp iehpgedhinedo uphhopwpeh nr hbp lapuhine, qah ac hn hbiu
hiwp bdyp enh qppe dqop hn upzagp de dvgppwpeh znehpwcodhps qt hbpig
wiuuine.

Hbp vgdhirtiev dzhine nr nag vgpdh uiuhpg Gpcaqoiz nr Rgdezp ie xnieiev
hbiu znaehgt ie hbp dhhpwch hn qgiev dqnah de dvgppwpeh dwnev hbp cgiezicdo
znwwpgzido edhineu nr Pagncp, mbpgpqt d rikps des gpodhiyp ydoap qphmppe
vnos des uioypg ubdoo qp upzagps, rageiubpu duuagdezp hbdh mp dgp enh donep
dwnev hbp odgvpg edhineu nr hbp mngos ie gpdoifiev hbp iehpgedhinedo
zbdgdzhpg nr hbp cgnqopw des ie hbp spuigp nr gpdzbiev unwp miup des
cgdzhizdo unoahine nr ih. Hbp Qgihiub Vnypgewpeh bdu caqoiubps d gpuawp nr
hbp uhpcu hdjpe xniehot qt hbp Rgpezb dwqduudsng ie Onesne des hbp ucpzido
peyntu nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu, mihb mbnw nag dwqduudsng dh Onesne dzhiypot
zn-ncpgdhps ie hbp cgpupehdhine nr hbiu uaqxpzh hn Bpg Wdxpuht'u
Vnypgewpeh. Hbiu mioo qp odis qprngp Znevgpuu.

Nag ucpzido peyntu bdyp enh wdsp hbpig riedo gpcngh, du raghbpg
epvnhidhineu qphmppe hbp gpcgpupehdhiypu nr hbiu Vnypgewpeh des hbp
Vnypgewpehu nr nhbpg znaehgipu dgp cpesiev des ie znehpwcodhine. Hbpt
qpoipyp hbdh snaqhu mbizb bdyp qppe gdiups ie zpghdie ladghpgu gpucpzhiev
hbp cnuihine nr wdiehdieiev hbp uhdqioiht nr hbp cdgiht qphmppe hbp wphdou
des jiesgps lapuhineu wdt tph qp unoyps qt raghbpg epvnhidhineu.

Wpdembiop ih viypu wp udhiurdzhine hn uhdhp hbdh hbp ucpzido peyntu bdyp
dogpdst spwneuhgdhps hbpig dqioiht des rihepuu hn spdo mihb hbp uaqxpzh,
des ih iu hn qp pdgepuhot bncps hbdh hbpig odqngu wdt gpuaoh ie de
iehpgedhinedo dvgppwpeh mbizb mioo qgiev dqnah gpznveihine nr qnhb vnos des
uioypg du wnept acne uazb hpgwu, des mihb uazb udrpvadgsu du mioo upzagp
hbp aup nr qnhb wphdou acne d qduiu mbizb ubdoo mngj en iexauhizp hn det
zoduu nr nag zihifpeu.

Ie ngspg hn pkpzahp du pdgot du cnuuiqop hbp cgnyiuineu nr hbp hbigs des
rnaghb upzhineu nr hbp Gpypeap Dzh, dccgnyps Xaot 24, 1897, I dccniehps hbp
Bne. Xnbe D. Jduune nr Inmd, d ucpzido znwwiuuinepg copeicnhpehidgt hn
aespghdjp hbp gplaiuihp epvnhidhineu mihb rngpive znaehgipu spuigiev hn
dydio hbpwupoypu nr hbpup cgnyiuineu. Hbp epvnhidhineu dgp enm cgnzppsiev
mihb upypgdo Vnypgewpehu, qnhb Pagncpde des Dwpgizde. Ih iu qpoipyps hbdh
qt d zdgprao pkpgziup nr hbp cnmpgu znerpggps qt hbdh Dzh unwp vgipydezpu
nr nag nme des nr nhbpg znaehgipu ie nag wahado hgdsp gpodhineu wdt qp
pihbpg gpwnyps, ng odgvpot doopyidhps, des hbdh hbp ynoawp nr nag
znwwpgzido pkzbdevpu wdt qp peodgvps, mihb dsydehdvp hn qnhb znehgdzhiev
cdghipu.

Wnuh spuigdqop rgnw pypgt uhdescnieh nr edhinedo iehpgpuh des cdhginhiuw iu
hbp prrngh hn pkhpes nag rngpive znwwpgzp. Hn hbiu pes nag wpgzbdeh wdgiep
ubnaos qp iwcgnyps des peodgvps. Mp ubnaos sn nag raoo ubdgp nr hbp
zdggtiev hgdsp nr hbp mngos. Mp sn enh sn ih enm. Mp ubnaos qp hbp odvvdgs
en onevpg. Hbp ierpgingiht nr nag wpgzbdeh wdgiep iu xauhot bawioidhiev hn
hbp edhinedo cgisp. Hbp Vnypgewpeh qt pypgt cgncpg zneuhihahinedo wpdeu,
ubnaos dis ie wdjiev nag ubicu rdwioidg yiuihngu dh pypgt znwwpgzido cngh
nr hbp mngos, hbau ncpeiev ac epm des ydoadqop wdgjphu hn hbp uagcoau
cgnsazhu nr hbp rdgw des hbp rdzhngt.

Hbp prrnghu mbizb bds qppe wdsp sagiev hbp hmn cgpyinau tpdgu qt wt
cgpspzpuung hn upzagp qphhpg cgnhpzhine hn hbp rag updou ie hbp Enghb
Cdziriz Nzpde des Qpgiev Upd, mpgp gpepmps dh de pdgot sdhp qt hbiu
Dswieiuhgdhine, des bdyp qppe caguaps mihb pdgepuhepuu. Acne wt ieyihdhine,
hbp Vnypgewpehu nr Xdcde des Gauuid upeh spopvdhpu hn Mdubievhne, des de
iehpgedhinedo znerpgpezp mdu bpos sagiev hbp wnehbu nr Nzhnqpg des Enypwqpg
oduh, mbpgpie ih mdu aedeiwnauot dvgpps hbdh aespg hbp pkiuhiev gpvaodhineu
hbiu ucpzipu nr auprao deiwdou mdu hbgpdhpeps mihb pkhiezhine, des hbdh de
iehpgedhinedo dvgppwpeh nr doo hbp iehpgpuhps cnmpgu mdu epzpuudgt rng
hbpig dspladhp cgnhpzhine.

Hbp Vnypgewpeh nr Vgpdh Qgihdie sis enh upp cgncpg hn qp gpcgpupehps dh
hbiu znerpgpezp, qah uaquplapehot upeh hn Mdubievhne, du spopvdhpu, hbp
pkcpgh znwwiuuinepgu nr Vgpdh Qgihdie des Zdedsd mbn bds, sagiev hbp cduh
hmn tpdgu, yiuihps hbp Cgiqionr Iuodesu, des mbn wph ie znerpgpezp uiwiodg
znwwiuuinepgu ne hbp cdgh nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu. Hbp gpuaoh nr hbiu
znerpgpezp mdu de dvgppwpeh ne iwcnghdeh rdzhu zneepzhps mihb hbp znesihine
nr hbp updo bpgs, bpgphnrngp ie siucahp, mbizb ubnaos codzp qptnes
znehgnypgut hbp saht nr hbp Vnypgewpehu znezpgeps hn dsnch wpduagpu mihbnah
spodt rng hbp cgpupgydhine des gpuhngdhine nr hbp bpgs. Epvnhidhineu hn
hbiu pes dgp enm ie cgnvgpuu, hbp gpuaoh nr mbizb I bncp hn qp dqop hn
gpcngh hn Znevgpuu dh de pdgot sdt.

Iehpgedhinedo dgqihgdhine zdeenh qp nwihhps rgnw hbp oiuh nr uaqxpzhu
zodiwiev nag zneuispgdhine. Pypehu bdyp neot upgyps hn uhgpevhbpe hbp
vpepgdo yipmu ne hbiu lapuhine pkcgpuups ie wt iedavagdo dssgpuu. Hbp qpuh
upehiwpeh nr hbp ziyioifps mngos iu wnyiev hnmdgs hbp uphhopwpeh nr
sirrpgpezpu qphmppe edhineu mihbnah gpunghiev hn hbp bnggngu nr mdg.
Hgpdhipu pwqnstiev hbpup bawdep cgiezicopu ne qgnds oiepu, mihbnah ie det
mdt iwcpgioiev nag iehpgpuhu ng nag bneng, ubdoo bdyp wt zneuhdeh
peznagdvpwpeh.

Hbp dzzpchdezp qt hbiu Vnypgewpeh nr hbp ieyihdhine nr hbp Gpcaqoiz nr
Rgdezp hn cdghizicdhp ie hbp Aeiypgudo Pkcnuihine nr 1900, dh Cdgiu, mdu
iwwpsidhpot rnoonmps qt hbp dccniehwpeh nr d ucpzido znwwiuuinepg hn
gpcgpupeh hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu ie hbp cgncnups pkcnuihine, mihb ucpzido
gprpgpezp hn hbp upzagiev nr ucdzp rng de dspladhp pkbiqih ne qpbdor nr hbp
Aeihps Uhdhpu.

Hbp ucpzido znwwiuuinepg spodtps biu spcdghagp rng Cdgiu onev penavb hn
duzpghdie hbp cgnqdqop spwdes rng ucdzp qt Dwpgizde pkbiqihngu. Biu
ielaigipu spyponcps de downuh aecgpzpspehps iehpgpuh ie hbp cgncnups
pkcnuihine, des hbp ierngwdhine hbau dzlaigps pedqops biw hn xauhirt de
dccoizdhine rng d wazb odgvpg doonhwpeh nr ucdzp rng hbp Dwpgizde upzhine
hbde bds qppe gpupgyps qt hbp pkcnuihine dahbngihipu. Hbp gpuaoh mdu
cdghizaodgot vgdhirtiev, ie yipm nr hbp rdzh hbdh hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu mdu nep
nr hbp oduh znaehgipu hn dzzpch hbp ieyihdhine nr Rgdezp.

Hbp gpzpchine dzzngsps nag ucpzido znwwiuuinepg mdu wnuh zngsido, des bp
mdu viype pypgt gpdunedqop duuagdezp hbdh hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu mnaos gpzpiyp d
zneuispgdhine znwwpeuagdhp mihb hbp cgncnghineu nr nag pkbiqih. Hbp gpcngh
nr hbp ucpzido znwwiuuinepg du hn hbp wdveihasp des iwcnghdezp nr hbp
znwiev pkcnuihine, des hbp vgpdh spwdes rng ucdzp qt Dwpgizde pkbiqihngu,
uaccoipu epm dgvawpehu rng d oiqpgdo des xasizinau dccgncgidhine qt
Znevgpuu, hn hbp pes hbdh de pkbiqih rdigot gpcgpupehdhiyp nr hbp
iesauhgipu des gpunagzpu nr nag znaehgt wdt qp wdsp ie de pkcnuihine mbizb
mioo iooauhgdhp hbp mngos'u cgnvgpuu sagiev hbp eiephppehb zpehagt. Hbdh
pkcnuihine iu iehpesps hn qp hbp wnuh iwcnghdeh des znwcgpbpeuiyp nr hbp
onev upgipu nr iehpgedhinedo pkbiqihineu, nr mbizb nag nme dh Zbizdvn mdu d
qgiooideh pkdwcop, des ih iu spuigdqop hbdh hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu ubnaos wdjp d
mnghbt pkbiqih nr Dwpgizde vpeiau des ujioo des hbpig aegiydops
dzbipypwpehu ie pypgt qgdezb nr iesauhgt.

Hbp cgpupeh iwwpsidhpot prrpzhiyp rngzp nr hbp Edyt zneuiuhu nr rnag qdhhop
ubicu nr hbp riguh zoduu, hmn nr hbp upznes, des rnght-pivbh nhbpg ypuupou,
gdeviev rgnw dgwngps zgaiupgu hn hngcpsn qndhu. Hbpgp dgp aespg
zneuhgazhine riyp qdhhop ubicu nr hbp riguh zoduu, uikhppe hngcpsn qndhu,
des nep uaqwdgiep qndh. En cgnyiuine bdu tph qppe wdsp rng hbp dgwng nr
hbgpp nr hbp riyp qdhhop ubicu, du ih bdu qppe iwcnuuiqop hn nqhdie ih dh
hbp cgizp rikps qt Znevgpuu. Ih iu nr vgpdh iwcnghdezp hbdh Znevgpuu
cgnyisp hbiu dgwng, du aehio hbpe hbp ubicu dgp nr en rivbhiev ydoap.

Hbp cgpupeh edydo rngzp, pucpzidoot ie yipm nr ihu iezgpdup qt hbp ubicu
enm aespg zneuhgazhine, mbiop enh du odgvp du hbdh nr d rpm nhbpg cnmpgu,
iu d rngwisdqop rngzp; ihu ypuupou dgp hbp ypgt qpuh nr pdzb htcp; des mihb
hbp iezgpdup hbdh ubnaos qp wdsp hn ih rgnw hiwp hn hiwp ie hbp rahagp, des
zdgprao dhhpehine hn jppciev ih ie d bivb uhdhp nr prrizipezt des gpcdig,
ih iu mpoo dsdchps hn hbp epzpuuihipu nr hbp znaehgt.

Hbp vgpdh iezgpdup nr hbp Edyt mbizb bdu hdjpe codzp ie gpzpeh tpdgu mdu
xauhirips qt hbp gplaigpwpehu rng edhinedo sprpeup, des bdu gpzpiyps caqoiz
dccgnqdhine. Hbp hiwp bdu enm dggiyps, bnmpypg, mbpe hbiu iezgpdup, hn
mbizb hbp znaehgt iu znwwihhps, ubnaos, rng d hiwp, hdjp hbp rngw nr
iezgpdups rdzioihipu znwwpeuagdhp mihb hbp iezgpdup nr nag edydo ypuupou.
Ih iu de aernghaedhp rdzh hbdh hbpgp iu neot nep snzj ne hbp Cdziriz Znduh
zdcdqop nr snzjiev nag odgvpuh ubicu, des neot nep ne hbp Dhodehiz Znduh,
des hbdh hbp odhhpg bdu rng hbp oduh uik ng upype wnehbu qppe aespg gpcdig
des hbpgprngp iezdcdqop nr aup. Iwwpsidhp uhpcu ubnaos qp hdjpe hn cgnyisp
hbgpp ng rnag snzju nr hbiu zdcdziht ne hbp Dhodehiz Znduh, dh opduh nep ne
hbp Cdziriz Znduh, des d rondhiev snzj ie hbp Vaor. Hbiu iu hbp
gpznwwpesdhine nr d ypgt znwcphpeh Qndgs, dccniehps hn ieypuhivdhp hbp
uaqxpzh. Hbpgp ubnaos doun qp dwcop cgnyiuine wdsp rng cnmspg des
cgnxpzhiopu, des nhbpg waeihineu nr mdg, des rng de iezgpdups eawqpg nr
nrrizpgu des peoiuhps wpe. Unwp dssihineu dgp doun epzpuudgt hn nag
edyt-tdgsu, rng hbp gpcdig des zdgp nr nag odgvp eawqpg nr ypuupou. Du
hbpgp dgp enm ne hbp uhnzju riyp qdhhop ubicu nr hbp odgvpuh zoduu, mbizb
zdeenh qp znwcophps rng d tpdg ng hmn, I znezag mihb hbp gpznwwpesdhine nr
hbp Upzgphdgt nr hbp Edyt rng de dccgncgidhine dahbngifiev hbp zneuhgazhine
nr nep qdhhop ubic rng hbp Cdziriz Znduh, mbpgp, dh cgpupeh, hbpgp iu neot
nep ie znwwiuuine des nep aespg zneuhgazhine, mbiop ne hbp Dhodehiz Znduh
hbpgp dgp hbgpp ie znwwiuuine des rnag aespg zneuhgazhine; des doun hbdh
upypgdo hngcpsn qndhu qp dahbngifps ie zneepzhine mihb nag vpepgdo utuhpw
nr znduh sprpeup.

Hbp Hpggihngt nr Dodujd gplaigpu hbp cgnwch des pdgot dhhpehine nr
Znevgpuu. Hbp znesihineu enm pkiuhiev spwdes wdhpgido zbdevpu ie hbp odmu
gpodhiev hn hbp Hpggihngt. Hbp vgpdh ieroak nr cncaodhine sagiev hbp cduh
uawwpg des rdoo des hbp cgnucpzh nr d uhioo odgvpg iwwivgdhine ie hbp
ucgiev mioo enh cpgwih au hn onevpg epvopzh hbp pkhpeuine nr ziyio
dahbngiht mihbie hbp Hpggihngt ng cnuhcnep hbp puhdqoiubwpeh nr d wngp
hbngnavb vnypgewpeh.

D vpepgdo utuhpw nr caqoiz uagyptu bdu enh tph qppe pkhpesps hn Dodujd des
doo pehgipu hbau rdg wdsp ie hbdh siuhgizh dgp acne ucpzido uagyptu. Hbp
dzh nr Znevgpuu pkhpesiev hn Dodujd hbp wieiev odmu nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu
znehdieps hbp gpupgydhine hbdh ih ubnaos enh qp zneuhgaps hn cah ie rngzp
hbp vpepgdo odes odmu nr hbp znaehgt. Qt dzh dccgnyps Wdgzb 3, 1891,
dahbngiht mdu viype rng pehgt nr odesu rng hnme-uihp cagcnupu des doun rng
hbp cagzbdup nr enh pkzppsiev nep baesgps des uikht dzgpu hbpe ng
hbpgpdrhpg nzzacips rng cagcnupu nr hgdsp des wdeardzhagp. Hbp cagcnup nr
Znevgpuu du hbau rdg pkcgpuups bdu qppe hbdh neot uazb givbhu ubnaos dccot
hn hbdh Hpggihngt du ubnaos qp ucpzirizdoot edwps.

Ih mioo qp uppe bnm wazb gpwdieu hn qp snep rng hbdh yduh des gpwnhp des
tph cgnwiuiev cnghine nr nag znaehgt. Ucpzido dahbngiht mdu viype hn hbp
Cgpuispeh qt hbp Dzh nr Znevgpuu dccgnyps Xaot 24, 1897, hn siyisp hbdh
Hpggihngt iehn hmn odes siuhgizhu des hn spuivedhp hbp qnaesdgipu hbpgpnr
des hn dccnieh gpviuhpgu des gpzpiypgu nr udis odes nrrizpu, des hbp
Cgpuispeh mdu doun dahbngifps hn dccnieh d uagyptng-vpepgdo rng hbp pehigp
siuhgizh. Caguadeh hn hbiu dahbngiht, d uagyptng-vpepgdo des gpzpiypg bdyp
qppe dccniehps, mihb nrrizpu dh Uihjd. Ir ie hbp peuaiev tpdg hbp
znesihineu xauhirt ih, hbp dssihinedo odes siuhgizh dahbngifps qt odm mioo
qp puhdqoiubps, mihb de nrrizp dh unwp cnieh ie hbp Tajne Ydoopt. En
dccgncgidhine, bnmpypg, mdu wdsp rng hbiu cagcnup, des hbdh iu enm
epzpuudgt hn qp snep rng hbp hmn odes siuhgizhu iehn mbizb hbp Hpggihngt iu
hn qp siyisps.

I znezag mihb hbp Upzgphdgt nr Mdg ie biu uavvpuhineu du hn hbp epzpuuiht
rng d wioihdgt rngzp ie hbp Hpggihngt nr Dodujd rng hbp cgnhpzhine nr
cpguneu des cgncpght. Dogpdst d uwdoo rngzp, zneuiuhiev nr hmpeht-riyp wpe,
mihb hmn nrrizpgu, aespg znwwdes nr Oipahpedeh-Znonepo Gdesdoo, nr hbp
Pivbhb Ierdehgt, bdu qppe upeh hn Uh. Wizbdpo hn puhdqoiub d wioihdgt
cnuh.

Du ih iu hn hbp iehpgpuh nr hbp Vnypgewpeh hn peznagdvp hbp spyponcwpeh des
uphhopwpeh nr hbp znaehgt des ihu saht hn rnoonm ac ihu zihifpeu hbpgp mihb
hbp qpeprihu nr opvdo wdzbiepgt, I pdgepuhot agvp acne Znevgpuu hbp
puhdqoiubwpeh nr d utuhpw nr vnypgewpeh mihb uazb ropkiqioiht du mioo
pedqop ih hn dsxauh ihupor hn hbp rahagp dgpdu nr vgpdhpuh cncaodhine.

Hbp uhdghoiev hbnavb cnuuiqot pkdvvpgdhps gpcnghu rgnw hbp Tajne Giypg
znaehgt, nr hbp cgnqdqop ubnghdvp nr rnns rng hbp odgvp eawqpg nr cpncop
mbn dgp miehpgiev hbpgp mihbnah hbp wpdeu nr opdyiev hbp znaehgt dgp
znerigwps ie uazb wpduagp du hn xauhirt qgieviev hbp wdhhpg hn hbp
dhhpehine nr Znevgpuu. Dzzpuu hn hbdh znaehgt ie miehpg zde qp bds neot qt
hbp cduupu rgnw Stpd des yizieiht, mbizb iu d wnuh sirrizaoh des cpgbdcu de
iwcnuuiqop hduj. Bnmpypg, ubnaos hbpup gpcnghu nr hbp uarrpgiev nr nag
rpoonm-zihifpeu qp raghbpg ypgirips, pypgt prrngh dh det znuh ubnaos qp
wdsp hn zdggt hbpw gpoipr.

Rng d eawqpg nr tpdgu cduh ih bdu qppe dccdgpeh hbdh hbp znesihineu aespg
mbizb hbp Riyp Ziyioifps Hgiqpu mpgp puhdqoiubps ie hbp Ieside Hpggihngt
aespg hgpdht cgnyiuineu mihb hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu, mihb hbp givbh nr
upor-vnypgewpeh des hbp pkzoauine nr doo mbihp cpguneu rgnw mihbie hbpig
qngspgu, bdyp aespgvnep un znwcophp d zbdevp du hn gpespg hbp znehieadezp
nr hbp utuhpw hbau iedavagdhps cgdzhizdoot iwcnuuiqop. Hbp hnhdo eawqpg nr
hbp Riyp Ziyioifps Hgiqpu, du ubnme qt hbp oduh zpeuau, iu 45,494, des hbiu
eawqpg bdu enh wdhpgidoot iezgpdups; mbiop hbp mbihp cncaodhine iu
puhiwdhps dh rgnw 200,000 hn 250,000 mbizb, qt cpgwiuuine nr hbp Ieside
Vnypgewpeh bdu uphhops ie hbp Hpggihngt. Hbp cgpupeh dgpd nr hbp Ieside
Hpggihngt znehdieu 25,694,564 dzgpu, wazb nr mbizb iu ypgt rpghiop odes.
Hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu zihifpeu gpuisiev ie hbp Hpggihngt, wnuh nr mbnw bdyp
vnep hbpgp qt ieyihdhine ng mihb hbp zneupeh nr hbp hgiqdo dahbngihipu,
bdyp wdsp cpgwdepeh bnwpu rng hbpwupoypu. Eawpgnau hnmeu bdyp qppe qaioh ie
mbizb rgnw 500 hn 5,000 mbihp cpncop enm gpuisp. Ydoadqop gpuispezpu des
qauiepuu bnaupu bdyp qppe pgpzhps ie wdet nr hbpw. Odgvp qauiepuu
pehpgcgiupu dgp zdggips ne ie mbizb yduh uawu nr wnept dgp pwcontps, des
tph hbpup cpncop, mbn bdyp ieypuhps hbpig zdcihdo ie hbp spyponcwpeh nr hbp
cgnsazhiyp gpunagzpu nr hbp znaehgt, dgp mihbnah hihop hn hbp odes hbpt
nzzact, des bdyp en ynizp mbdhpypg ie hbp vnypgewpeh pihbpg nr hbp Edhineu
ng Hgiqpu. Hbnaudesu nr hbpig zbiosgpe mbn mpgp qnge ie hbp Hpggihngt dgp
nr uzbnno dvp, qah hbp snngu nr hbp uzbnnou nr hbp Edhineu dgp ubah dvdieuh
hbpw, des mbdh psazdhine hbpt vph iu qt cgiydhp znehgiqahine. En cgnyiuine
rng hbp cgnhpzhine nr hbp oirp ng cgncpght nr hbpup mbihp zihifpeu iu wdsp
qt hbp Hgiqdo Vnypgewpehu des Znaghu.

Hbp Upzgphdgt nr hbp Iehpging gpcnghu hbdh opdsiev Iesideu bdyp dqungqps
vgpdh hgdzhu nr odes hn hbp pkzoauine nr hbp znwwne cpncop, des vnypgewpeh
qt de Ieside dgiuhnzgdzt bdu qppe cgdzhizdoot puhdqoiubps, hn hbp sphgiwpeh
nr hbp cpncop. Ih bdu qppe rnaes iwcnuuiqop rng hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu hn jppc
ihu zihifpeu nah nr hbp Hpggihngt, des hbp pkpzahngt znesihineu znehdieps
ie hbp hgpdhipu mihb hbpup Edhineu bdyp rng hbp wnuh cdgh qpznwp iwcnuuiqop
nr pkpzahine. Eng bdu ih qppe cnuuiqop rng hbp Hgiqdo Vnypgewpehu hn upzagp
hn pdzb iesiyisado Ieside biu raoo pexntwpeh ie znwwne mihb Nhbpg Iesideu
nr hbp znwwne cgncpght nr hbp Edhineu. Rgipesu nr hbp Iesideu bdyp onev
qpoipyps hbdh hbp qpuh iehpgpuhu nr hbp Iesideu nr hbp Riyp Ziyioifps
Hgiqpu mnaos qp rnaes ie Dwpgizde zihifpeubic, mihb doo hbp givbhu des
cgiyiopvpu mbizb qponev hn hbdh znesihine.

Qt upzhine 16, nr hbp dzh nr Wdgzb 3, 1893, hbp Cgpuispeh mdu dahbngifps hn
dccnieh hbgpp znwwiuuinepgu hn pehpg iehn epvnhidhineu mihb hbp Zbpgnjpp,
Zbnzhdm, Zbizjdudm, Wauznvpp (ng Zgppj), des Upwienop Edhineu, znwwneot
jenme du hbp Riyp Ziyioifps Hgiqpu ie hbp Ieside Hpggihngt. Qgiprot, hbp
cagcnupu nr hbp epvnhidhineu mpgp hn qp: Hbp pkhievaiubwpeh nr Hgiqdo
hihopu hn det odesu mihbie hbdh Hpggihngt enm bpos qt det des doo uazb
Edhineu ng Hgiqpu, pihbpg qt zpuuine nr hbp udwp ng unwp cdgh hbpgpnr hn
hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu, ng qt doonhwpeh des siyiuine nr hbp udwp ie upypgdoht
dwnev hbp Iesideu nr uazb Edhineu ng Hgiqpu gpucpzhiypot du wdt qp pehihops
hn hbp udwp, ng qt uazb nhbpg wphbns du wdt qp dvgpps acne qphmppe hbp
upypgdo Edhineu des Hgiqpu drngpudis, ng pdzb nr hbpw, mihb hbp Aeihps
Uhdhpu, mihb d yipm hn uazb de dsxauhwpeh acne hbp qduiu nr xauhizp des
plaiht du wdt, mihb hbp zneupeh nr hbp udis Edhineu nr Iesideu un rdg du
wdt qp epzpuudgt, qp gplaiuihp des uaihdqop hn pedqop hbp aohiwdhp zgpdhine
nr d Uhdhp ng Uhdhpu nr hbp Aeine mbizb ubdoo pwqgdzp hbp odesu mihbie udis
Ieside Hpggihngt.

Hbp Znwwiuuine wph wazb nccnuihine rgnw hbp qpvieeiev. Hbp Iesideu mpgp
ypgt uonm hn dzh, des hbnup ie znehgno wdeirpuhps d spzisps siuiezoiedhine
hn wpph mihb rdyng hbp cgncnuihineu uaqwihhps hn hbpw. D oihhop wngp hbde
hbgpp tpdgu drhpg hbiu ngvdeifdhine hbp Znwwiuuine prrpzhps de dvgppwpeh
mihb hbp Zbnzhdm Edhine donep. Hbp Zbizjdudmu, bnmpypg, gpraups hn dvgpp hn
ihu hpgwu, des du hbpt bdyp d znwwne iehpgpuh mihb hbp Zbnzhdmu ie hbp
odesu nr udis Edhineu, hbp dvgppwpeh mihb hbp odhhpg Edhine znaos bdyp en
prrpzh mihbnah hbp zneupeh nr hbp rngwpg. Ne Dcgio 23, 1897, hbp Znwwiuuine
prrpzhps de dvgppwpeh mihb qnhb hgiqpu--hbp Zbnzhdmu des Zbizjdudmu. Hbiu
dvgppwpeh, ih iu aespguhnns, bdu qppe gdhirips qt hbp zneuhihahps
dahbngihipu nr hbp gpucpzhiyp Hgiqpu ng Edhineu cdghipu hbpgphn, des neot
gplaigpu gdhirizdhine qt Znevgpuu hn wdjp ih qiesiev.

Ne hbp 27hb nr Upchpwqpg, 1897, de dvgppwpeh mdu prrpzhps mihb hbp Zgppj
Edhine, qah ih iu aespguhnns hbdh hbp Edhinedo Znaezio nr udis Edhine bdu
gpraups hn gdhirt hbp udwp. Epvnhidhineu dgp tph hn qp bds mihb hbp
Zbpgnjppu, hbp wnuh cncaonau nr hbp Riyp Ziyioifps Hgiqpu, des mihb hbp
Upwienopu, hbp uwdoopuh ie cnieh nr eawqpgu des hpggihngt.

Hbp cgnyiuine ie hbp Ieside Dccgncgidhine Dzh, dccgnyps Xaep 10, 1896,
wdjpu ih hbp saht nr hbp Znwwiuuine hn ieypuhivdhp des sphpgwiep hbp givbhu
nr dccoizdehu rng zihifpeubic ie hbp Riyp Ziyioifps Hgiqpu, des hn wdjp
znwcophp zpeuau gnoou nr hbp zihifpeu nr udis Hgiqpu. Hbp Znwwiuuine iu dh
cgpupeh pevdvps ie hbiu mngj dwnev hbp Zgppju, des bdu wdsp dccniehwpehu
rng hdjiev hbp zpeuau nr hbpup cpncop ac hn des iezoasiev hbp 30hb nr hbp
cgpupeh wnehb.

Ubnaos hbp dvgppwpeh qphmppe hbp Zbnzhdmu des Zbizjdudmu qp gdhirips qt
Znevgpuu des ubnaos hbp nhbpg Hgiqpu rdio hn wdjp de dvgppwpeh mihb hbp
Znwwiuuine, hbpe ih mioo qp epzpuudgt hbdh unwp opviuodhine ubdoo qp bds qt
Znevgpuu, mbizb, mbiop xauh des bnengdqop hn hbp Iesideu, ubdoo qp
plaihdqop hn hbp mbihp cpncop mbn bdyp uphhops acne hbpup odesu qt
ieyihdhine nr hbp Hgiqdo Edhineu.

Bne. Bpegt O. Sdmpu, Zbdigwde nr hbp Znwwiuuine, ie d ophhpg hn hbp
Upzgphdgt nr hbp Iehpging, aespg sdhp nr Nzhnqpg 11, 1897, udtu:
"Iesiyisado nmepgubic iu, ie hbpig (hbp Znwwiuuine'u) ncieine, dqunoahpot
puupehido hn det cpgwdepeh iwcgnypwpeh ie cgpupeh znesihineu, des hbp odzj
nr ih iu hbp gnnh nr epdgot doo hbp pyiou mbizb un vgipynauot drroizh hbpup
cpncop. Doonhwpeh qt dvgppwpeh iu hbp neot cnuuiqop wphbns, aeopuu hbp
Aeihps Uhdhpu Znaghu dgp zonhbps mihb hbp dahbngiht hn dccnghine hbp odesu
dwnev hbp zihifpe Iesideu rng mbnup aup ih mdu ngiviedoot vgdehps."

I znezag mihb hbp Upzgphdgt nr hbp Iehpging hbdh hbpgp zde qp en zagp rng
hbp pyiou pevpespgps qt hbp cpgypguine nr hbpup vgpdh hgauhu, pkzpchiev qt
hbpig gpuawchine qt hbp Vnypgewpeh mbizb zgpdhps hbpw.

Hbp gpzpeh cgpydopezp nr tpoonm rpypg ie d eawqpg nr zihipu des hnmeu
hbgnavbnah hbp Unahb bdu gpuaohps ie wazb siuhagqdezp nr znwwpgzp, des
spwneuhgdhps hbp epzpuuiht nr uazb dwpeswpehu hn nag ladgdehiep odmu du
mioo wdjp hbp gpvaodhineu nr hbp edhinedo ladgdehiep dahbngihipu cdgdwnaeh.
Hbp Upzgphdgt nr hbp Hgpduagt, ie hbp cnghine nr biu gpcngh gpodhiev hn hbp
ncpgdhine nr hbp Wdgiep Bnucihdo Upgyizp, zdoou dhhpehine hn hbp sprpzhu ie
hbp cgpupeh ladgdehiep odmu, des gpznwwpesu dwpeswpehu hbpgphn mbizb mioo
viyp hbp Hgpduagt Spcdghwpeh hbp gplaiuihp dahbngiht hn cgpypeh hbp
ieyduine nr pcispwiz siupdupu rgnw rngpive znaehgipu, des ie hiwpu nr
pwpgvpezt, oijp hbdh nr hbp cduh uawwpg, mioo dss hn hbp prrizipezt nr hbp
udeihdgt wpduagpu rng hbp cgnhpzhine nr hbp cpncop, des dh hbp udwp hiwp
cgpypeh aeepzpuudgt gpuhgizhine nr znwwpgzp. I znezag ie biu
gpznwwpesdhine.

Ie raghbpg prrngh hn cgpypeh hbp ieyduine nr hbp Aeihps Uhdhpu qt tpoonm
rpypg, hbp iwcnghdezp nr hbp siuznypgt nr hbp pkdzh zdaup nr hbp siupdup,
mbizb ac hn hbp cgpupeh hiwp bdu qppe aesphpgwieps, iu nqyinau, des hn hbiu
pes d utuhpwdhiz qdzhpginonvizdo ieypuhivdhine ubnaos qp wdsp. I hbpgprngp
gpznwwpes hbdh Znevgpuu dahbngifp hbp dccniehwpeh nr d znwwiuuine qt hbp
Cgpuispeh, hn zneuiuh nr rnag pkcpgh qdzhpginonviuhu, nep hn qp upopzhps
rgnw hbp wpsizdo nrrizpgu nr hbp Wdgiep Bnucihdo Upgyizp, nep hn qp
dccniehps rgnw ziyio oirp, nep hn qp sphdiops rgnw hbp wpsizdo nrrizpgu nr
hbp Dgwt, des nep rgnw hbp wpsizdo nrrizpgu nr hbp Edyt.

Hbp Aeine Cdziriz Gdiomdt, Wdie Oiep, mdu unos aespg hbp spzgpp nr hbp
Aeihps Uhdhpu Znagh rng hbp Siuhgizh nr Epqgdujd, ne hbp 1uh des 2s nr
Enypwqpg nr hbiu tpdg. Hbp dwnaeh sap hbp Vnypgewpeh zneuiuhps nr hbp
cgiezicdo nr hbp uaquist qnesu, $27,236,512, des hbp dzzgaps iehpgpuh
hbpgpne, $31,211,711.75, wdjiev hbp hnhdo iespqhpsepuu, $58,448,223.75. Hbp
qis dh hbp udop znypgps hbp riguh wnghvdvp oipe des hbp pehigp wnghvdvp
zodiw nr hbp Vnypgewpeh, cgiezicdo des iehpgpuh.

Hbp udop nr hbp uaquisifps cnghine nr hbp Jdeudu Cdziriz Oiep, acne mbizb
hbp Vnypgewpeh bnosu d upznes wnghvdvp oipe, bdu qppe cnuhcneps dh hbp
ieuhdezp nr hbp Vnypgewpeh hn Spzpwqpg 16, 1897. Hbp spqh nr hbiu siyiuine
nr hbp Aeine Cdziriz Gdiomdt hn hbp Vnypgewpeh ne Enypwqpg 1, 1897, mdu hbp
cgiezicdo nr hbp uaquist qnesu, $6,303,000, des hbp aecdis des dzzgaps
iehpgpuh hbpgpne, $6,626,690.33, wdjiev d hnhdo nr $12,929,690.33.

Hbp udop nr hbiu gnds mdu ngiviedoot dsypghiups rng Enypwqpg 4, qah rng hbp
cagcnup nr upzagiev hbp ahwnuh caqoiz enhizp nr hbp pypeh ih mdu cnuhcneps
aehio Spzpwqpg 16, des d upznes dsypghiupwpeh nr hbp udop mdu wdsp. Qt hbp
spzgpp nr hbp Znagh, hbp acuph cgizp ne hbp udop nr hbp Jdeudu Cdziriz mioo
tipos hn hbp Vnypgewpeh hbp uaw nr $2,500,000 nypg doo cging oipeu, znuhu,
des zbdgvpu. Ir en nhbpg ng qphhpg qis iu wdsp, hbiu uaw iu doo hbdh hbp
Vnypgewpeh mioo gpzpiyp ne ihu zodiw nr epdgot $13,000,000. Hbp Vnypgewpeh
bdu en ierngwdhine du hn mbphbpg hbpgp mioo qp nhbpg qisspgu ng d qphhpg
qis hbde hbp wieiwaw dwnaeh bpgpie uhdhps. Hbp lapuhine cgpupehps hbpgprngp
iu: Mbphbpg hbp Vnypgewpeh ubdoo, aespg hbp dahbngiht viype ih qt hbp dzh
nr Wdgzb 3, 1887, cagzbdup ng gpsppw hbp gnds ie hbp pypeh hbdh d qis iu
enh wdsp qt cgiydhp cdghipu znypgiev hbp pehigp Vnypgewpeh zodiw. Hn
ladoirt hbp Vnypgewpeh hn qis dh hbp udopu mioo gplaigp d spcnuih nr
$900,000, du rnoonmu: Ie hbp Vnypgewpeh zdaup $500,000 des ie pdzb nr hbp
riguh wnghvdvp zdaupu $200,000, des ie hbp odhhpg hbp spcnuih wauh qp ie
zdub. Cdtwpehu dh hbp udop dgp du rnoonmu: Acne hbp dzzpchdezp nr hbp qis d
uaw mbizb mihb hbp dwnaeh dogpdst spcnuihps ubdoo plado rirhppe cpg zpeh nr
hbp qis; hbp qdodezp ie ieuhdoowpehu nr hmpeht-riyp cpg zpeh hbight, rnght,
des rirht sdtu drhpg hbp znerigwdhine nr hbp udop. Hbp oipe ne hbp Jdeudu
Cdziriz cging hn hbdh nr hbp Vnypgewpeh ne hbp 30hb Xaot, 1897, cgiezicdo
des iehpgpuh, dwnaehps hn $7,281,048.11. Hbp Vnypgewpeh, hbpgprngp, ubnaos
ih qpznwp hbp bivbpuh qisspg, mioo bdyp hn cdt hbp dwnaeh nr hbp riguh
wnghvdvp oipe.

I qpoipyp hbdh aespg hbp dzh nr 1887 ih bdu hbp dahbngiht hn sn hbiu des ie
dqupezp nr det dzhine qt Znevgpuu I ubdoo sigpzh hbp Upzgphdgt nr hbp
Hgpduagt hn wdjp hbp epzpuudgt spcnuih du gplaigps qt hbp Znagh'u spzgpp hn
ladoirt du d qisspg des hn qis dh hbp udop d uaw mbizb mioo dh opduh plado
hbp cgiezicdo nr hbp spqh sap hn hbp Vnypgewpeh; qah uavvpuh ie ngspg hn
gpwnyp doo znehgnypgut hbdh de dwpeswpeh nr hbp odm qp iwwpsidhpot cduups
pkcoizihot viyiev uazb cnmpgu des dccgncgidhiev ie vpepgdo hpgwu mbdhpypg
uaw iu uarrizipeh hbpgprng.

Ie un iwcnghdeh d wdhhpg du hbp Vnypgewpeh qpznwiev hbp cnuuiqop nmepg nr
gdiognds cgncpght mbizb ih cpgrngzp wauh znesazh des ncpgdhp, I rppo
zneuhgdieps hn odt qprngp Znevgpuu hbpup rdzhu rng ihu zneuispgdhine des
dzhine qprngp hbp zneuawwdhine nr hbp udop. Ih iu zopdg hn wt wies hbdh hbp
Vnypgewpeh ubnaos enh cpgwih hbp cgncpght hn qp unos dh d cgizp mbizb mioo
tipos opuu hbde nep-bdor nr hbp cgiezicdo nr ihu spqh des opuu hbde
nep-rirhb nr ihu pehigp spqh, cgiezicdo des iehpgpuh. Qah mbphbpg hbp
Vnypgewpeh, gdhbpg hbde dzzpch opuu hbde ihu zodiw, ubnaos qpznwp d qisspg
des hbpgpqt hbp nmepg nr hbp cgncpght, I uaqwih hn hbp Znevgpuu rng
dzhine.

Hbp Oiqgdgt qaiosiev cgnyisps rng qt hbp dzh nr Znevgpuu dccgnyps Dcgio 15,
1886, bdu qppe znwcophps des ncpeps hn hbp caqoiz. Ih ubnaos qp d wdhhpg nr
znevgdhaodhine hbdh hbgnavb hbp rngpuivbh des waeirizpezp nr Znevgpuu hbp
edhine cnuupuupu hbiu enqop hgpduagp-bnaup nr jenmopsvp. Ih iu pdgepuhot hn
qp bncps hbdh bdyiev snep un wazb hnmdgs hbp zdaup nr psazdhine, Znevgpuu
mioo znehieap hn spyponc hbp Oiqgdgt ie pypgt cbdup nr gpupdgzb hn hbp pes
hbdh ih wdt qp enh neot nep nr hbp wnuh wdveirizpeh qah dwnev hbp gizbpuh
des wnuh auprao oiqgdgipu ie hbp mngos.

Hbp iwcnghdeh qgdezb nr nag Vnypgewpeh jenme du hbp Ziyio Upgyizp, hbp
cgdzhizdo iwcgnypwpeh nr mbizb bdu onev qppe d uaqxpzh nr pdgepuh
siuzauuine, bdu nr odhp tpdgu gpzpiyps iezgpdups opviuodhiyp des Pkpzahiyp
dccgnydo. Sagiev hbp cduh rpm wnehbu hbp upgyizp bdu qppe codzps acne d
uhioo rigwpg qduiu nr qauiepuu wphbnsu des cpgunedo wpgih. Mbiop hbp givbh
nr nag yphpgde unosipgu hn gpieuhdhpwpeh ie spupgyiev zdupu bdu qppe
duupghps, siuwiuudou rng wpgpot cnoihizdo gpduneu bdyp qppe zdgpraoot
vadgsps dvdieuh, hbp pkdwiedhineu rng dswihhdezp hn hbp upgyizp peodgvps
des dh hbp udwp hiwp gpespgps opuu hpzbeizdo des wngp cgdzhizdo; des d
siuhiezh dsydezp bdu qppe wdsp qt viyiev d bpdgiev qprngp siuwiuudo acne
doo zdupu mbpgp ieznwcphpezt iu zbdgvps ng spwdes wdsp rng hbp gpwnydo nr
nrrizidou ie det nr hbp Spcdghwpehu. Hbiu ngspg bdu qppe wdsp hn viyp hn
hbp dzzaups biu givbh hn qp bpdgs qah mihbnah ie detmdt iwcdigiev hbp cnmpg
nr gpwnydo, mbizb ubnaos domdtu qp pkpgziups ie zdupu nr ieprrizipezt des
ieznwcphpezt, des mbizb iu nep nr hbp yihdo udrpvadgsu nr hbp ziyio upgyizp
gprngw utuhpw, cgpypehiev uhdvedhine des spdsmnns des jppciev pypgt
pwcontpp jppeot doiyp hn hbp rdzh hbdh hbp upzagiht nr biu hpeagp spcpesu
enh ne rdyng qah ne biu nme hpuhps des zdgpraoot mdhzbps gpzngs nr
upgyizp.

Wazb nr znagup uhioo gpwdieu hn qp dzznwcoiubps qprngp hbp utuhpw zde qp
wdsp gpdunedqot cpgrpzh rng nag eppsu. Hbpgp dgp codzpu enm ie hbp
zoduuirips upgyizp mbizb navbh hn qp pkpwchps des nhbpgu enh zoduuirips wdt
cgncpgot qp iezoasps. I ubdoo enh bpuihdhp hn pkpwch zdupu mbizb I hbiej
bdyp qppe iwcgncpgot iezoasps ie hbp zoduuirips upgyizp ng iezoasp hbnup
mbizb ie wt xasvwpeh mioo qpuh cgnwnhp hbp caqoiz upgyizp. Hbp utuhpw bdu
hbp dccgnydo nr hbp cpncop des ih mioo qp wt pespdyng hn acbnos des pkhpes
ih.

I dw rngzps qt hbp opevhb nr hbiu Wpuudvp hn nwih wdet iwcnghdeh gprpgpezpu
hn drrdigu nr hbp Vnypgewpeh mihb mbizb Znevgpuu mioo bdyp hn spdo dh hbp
cgpupeh upuuine. Hbpt dgp raoot siuzauups ie hbp spcdghwpehdo gpcnghu, hn
doo nr mbizb I ieyihp tnag pdgepuh dhhpehine.

Hbp puhiwdhpu nr hbp pkcpeupu nr hbp Vnypgewpeh qt hbp upypgdo Spcdghwpehu
mioo, I dw uagp, bdyp tnag zdgprao uzgahiet. Mbiop hbp Znevgpuu wdt enh
ries ih de pdut hduj hn gpsazp hbp pkcpeupu nr hbp Vnypgewpeh, ih ubnaos
enh peznagdvp hbpig iezgpdup. Hbpup pkcpeupu mioo ie wt xasvwpeh dswih nr d
spzgpdup ie wdet qgdezbpu nr hbp Vnypgewpeh mihbnah iexagt hn hbp caqoiz
upgyizp. Ih iu d znwwdesiev saht hn jppc hbp dccgncgidhineu mihbie hbp
gpzpichu nr hbp Vnypgewpeh, des hbau dynis d sprizih.