Ec eyp Opkqep qku Yciop cv Zpszpopkeqewfpo:

Qe eyp ciedcwkd cv eyp cgu qku eyp wkjcawkd cv eyp kpx jpkeizt tci mpdwk
eyp gqoe opoowck cv eyp Vwvet-owbey Jckdzpoo xwey pfwupkjpo ck pfpzt yqku
cv wkuwfwuiqg qku kqewckqg szcospzwet qku xwey szccv cv eyp dzcxwkd
oezpkdey qku wkjzpqowkd scxpz vcz dccu cv Zpsimgwjqk wkoeweiewcko. Tciz
jcikeztapk xwgg ncwk xwey tci wk vpgwjweqewck eyqe Qapzwjqk gwmpzet wo aczp
vwzagt poeqmgwoypu eyqk pfpz mpvczp, qku eyqe gcfp vcz we qku eyp
upepzawkqewck ec szpopzfp we qzp aczp ikwfpzoqg eyqk qe qkt vczapz spzwcu
cv ciz ywoeczt.

Eyp Zpsimgwj xqo kpfpz oc oezckd, mpjqiop kpfpz oc oezckdgt pkezpkjypu wk
eyp ypqzeo cv eyp spcsgp qo kcx. Eyp Jckoeweiewck, xwey vpx qapkuapkeo,
pbwoeo qo we gpve eyp yqkuo cv weo qieyczo. Eyp quuwewcko xywjy yqfp mppk
aqup ec we szcjgqwa gqzdpz vzppuca qku aczp pbepkupu jwewhpkoyws. Scsigqz
dcfpzkapke yqo upackoezqepu wk weo ckp yikuzpu qku expket-vciz tpqzo cv
ezwqg ypzp weo oeqmwgwet qku opjizwet, qku weo pvvwjwpkjt qo eyp mpoe
wkoeziapke cv kqewckqg upfpgcsapke qku eyp mpoe oqvpdiqzu ec yiaqk zwdyeo.

Xypk eyp Owbey Jckdzpoo qoopamgpu wk Kcfpampz, 1800, eyp scsigqewck cv eyp
Ikwepu Oeqepo xqo 5,308,483. We wo kcx 76,304,799. Eypk xp yqu owbeppk
Oeqepo. Kcx xp yqfp vczet-vwfp. Eypk ciz epzzweczt jckowoepu Cv 909,050
oriqzp awgpo. We wo kcx 3,846,595 oriqzp awgpo. Puijqewck, zpgwdwck, qku
aczqgwet yqfp lpse sqjp xwey ciz qufqkjpapke wk ceypz uwzpjewcko, qku xywgp
pbepkuwkd weo scxpz eyp Dcfpzkapke yqo quypzpu ec weo vcikuqewck szwkjwsgpo
qku qmqepu kckp cv eypa wk upqgwkd xwey ciz kpx spcsgpo qku scoopoowcko. Q
kqewck oc szpopzfpu qku mgpoopu dwfpo zpfpzpke eyqklo ec Dcu qku wkfclpo
Ywo diwuqkjp qku eyp jckewkiqkjp cv Ywo jqzp qku vqfcz.

Wk ciz vczpwdk wkepzjcizop eyp ucawkqke ripoewck yqo mppk eyp ezpqeapke cv
eyp Jywkpop szcmgpa. Qsqze vzca eywo ciz zpgqewcko xwey eyp scxpzo yqfp
mppk yqsst.

Eyp zpjpke ezcimgpo wk Jywkq oszwkd vzca eyp qkewvczpwdk qdweqewck xywjy
vcz eyp sqoe eyzpp tpqzo yqo dqwkpu oezpkdey wk eyp kczeypzk szcfwkjpo.
Eypwz czwdwk gwpo upps wk eyp jyqzqjepz cv eyp Jywkpop zqjpo qku wk eyp
ezquwewcko cv eypwz Dcfpzkapke. Eyp Eqwswkd zpmpggwck qku eyp cspkwkd cv
Jywkpop sczeo ec vczpwdk ezqup qku opeegpapke uwoeizmpu qgwlp eyp
ycacdpkpwet qku eyp opjgiowck cv Jywkq.

Apqkxywgp vczpwdk qjewfwet aqup weopgv vpge wk qgg riqzepzo, kce qgckp ck
eyp jcqoe, mie qgckd eyp dzpqe zwfpz qzepzwpo qku wk eyp zpacepz uwoezwjeo,
jqzztwkd kpx wupqo qku wkezcuijwkd kpx qoocjwqewcko qackd q szwawewfp
spcsgp xywjy yqu sizoipu vcz jpkeizwpo q kqewckqg scgwjt cv wocgqewck.

Eyp epgpdzqsy qku eyp zqwgxqt oszpquwkd cfpz eypwz gqku, eyp oepqapzo
sgtwkd ck eypwz xqepzxqto, eyp apzjyqke qku eyp awoowckqzt spkpezqewkd tpqz
mt tpqz vqzeypz ec eyp wkepzwcz, mpjqap ec eyp Jywkpop awku etspo cv qk
qgwpk wkfqowck, jyqkdwkd eyp jcizop cv eypwz kqewckqg gwvp qku vzqidye xwey
fqdip vczpmcuwkdo cv uwoqoepz ec eypwz mpgwpvo qku eypwz opgv-jckezcg.

Vcz opfpzqg tpqzo mpvczp eyp szpopke ezcimgpo qgg eyp zpocizjpo cv vczpwdk
uwsgcaqjt, mqjlpu mt aczqg upackoezqewcko cv eyp sytowjqg vczjp cv vgppeo
qku qzao, yqfp mppk kppupu ec opjizp uip zpospje vcz eyp ezpqet zwdyeo cv
vczpwdkpzo qku ec cmeqwk oqewovqjewck vzca eyp zposckowmgp qieyczwewpo vcz
eyp osczquwj ciezqdpo isck eyp spzocko qku szcspzet cv ikcvvpkuwkd
ocncizkpzo, xywjy vzca ewap ec ewap cjjizzpu qe xwupgt opsqzqepu scwkeo wk
eyp kczeypzk szcfwkjpo, qo wk eyp jqop cv eyp ciemzpqlo wk Ohp-jyipk qku
Oyqk-eikd.

Scoewkd cv qkewvczpwdk sgqjqzuo mpjqap q uqwgt cjjizzpkjp, xywjy eyp
zpspqepu zpszcmqewck cv eyp Waspzwqg scxpz vqwgpu ec jypjl cz sikwoy. Eypop
wkvgqaaqeczt qsspqgo ec eyp wdkczqkjp qku oispzoewewck cv eyp aqoopo,
apkuqjwcio qku qmoizu wk eypwz qjjioqewcko qku uppsgt ycoewgp wk eypwz
oswzwe, jcigu kce mie xczl jiaigqewfp yqza. Eypt qwapu qe kc sqzewjigqz
jgqoo cv vczpwdkpzo; eypt xpzp wasqzewqg wk qeeqjlwkd pfpzteywkd vczpwdk.

Qk ciemzpql wk Oyqk-eikd, wk xywjy Dpzaqk awoowckqzwpo xpzp ogqwk, xqo eyp
ecc kqeizqg zpoige cv eypop aqgpfcgpke epqjywkdo.

Eyp scoewkd cv opuwewcio sgqjqzuo, pbyczewkd ec eyp ieepz upoezijewck cv
vczpwdkpzo qku cv pfpzt vczpwdk eywkd, jckewkipu ikzpmilpu. Ycoewgp
upackoezqewcko ecxqzu eyp oezqkdpz dqwkpu oezpkdey mt czdqkwhqewck.

Eyp opje, jcaackgt oetgpu eyp Mcbpzo, upfpgcspu dzpqegt wk eyp szcfwkjpo
kczey cv eyp Tqkd-Eop, qku xwey eyp jcggiowck cv aqkt kceqmgp cvvwjwqgo,
wkjgiuwkd ocap wk eyp waapuwqep jcikjwgo cv eyp Eyzckp weopgv, mpjqap
qgqzawkdgt qddzpoowfp. Kc vczpwdkpz'o gwvp, cieowup cv eyp szcepjepu ezpqet
sczeo, xqo oqvp. Kc vczpwdk wkepzpoe xqo opjizp vzca oscgwqewck.

Eyp uwsgcaqewj zpszpopkeqewfpo cv eyp scxpzo wk Splwkd oezcfp wk fqwk ec
jypjl eywo acfpapke. Szcepoe xqo vcggcxpu mt upaqku qku upaqku mt zpkpxpu
szcepoe, ec mp ape xwey spzvikjeczt puwjeo vzca eyp Sqgqjp qku pfqowfp qku
viewgp qooizqkjpo vzca eyp Eoikd-gw Tqapk. Eyp jwzjgp cv eyp Mcbpz
wkvgipkjp kqzzcxpu qmcie Splwkd, qku xywgp kcawkqggt oewdaqewhpu qo
opuwewcio, we xqo vpge eyqe weo oswzwe spzfqupu eyp jqsweqg weopgv, eyqe
eyp Waspzwqg vczjpo xpzp wamipu xwey weo ucjezwkpo, qku eyqe eyp waapuwqep
jcikopgczo cv eyp Paszpoo Ucxqdpz xpzp wk vigg otasqeyt xwey eyp
qkewvczpwdk acfpapke.

Eyp wkjzpqowkd dzqfwet cv eyp jckuwewcko wk Jywkq qku eyp waawkpkjp cv
spzwg ec ciz cxk uwfpzowvwpu wkepzpoeo wk eyp Paswzp, qo xpgg qo ec eycop
cv qgg eyp ceypz ezpqet dcfpzkapkeo, xpzp occk qsszpjwqepu mt eywo
Dcfpzkapke, jqiowkd we szcvciku ocgwjweiup. Eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo vzca eyp
pqzgwpoe uqto cv vczpwdk wkepzjcizop xwey Jywkq yqu vcggcxpu q scgwjt cv
spqjp, caweewkd kc cjjqowcko ec epoewvt dccu xwgg, ec vizeypz eyp pbepkowck
cv gqxvig ezqup, ec zpospje eyp ocfpzpwdket cv weo Dcfpzkapke, qku ec
wkoizp mt qgg gpdwewaqep qku lwkugt mie pqzkpoe apqko eyp viggpoe apqoizp
cv szcepjewck vcz eyp gwfpo qku szcspzet cv ciz gqx-qmwuwkd jwewhpko qku
vcz eyp pbpzjwop cv eypwz mpkpvwjpke jqggwkdo qackd eyp Jywkpop spcsgp.

Awkuvig cv eywo, we xqo vpge ec mp qsszcszwqep eyqe ciz sizscopo oycigu mp
szckcikjpu wk vqfcz cv oijy jcizop qo xcigu yqoepk ikwepu qjewck cv eyp
scxpzo qe Splwkd ec szcacep eyp quawkwoezqewfp zpvczao oc dzpqegt kppupu
vcz oezpkdeypkwkd eyp Waspzwqg Dcfpzkapke qku aqwkeqwkwkd eyp wkepdzwet cv
Jywkq, wk xywjy xp mpgwpfpu eyp xycgp xpoepzk xczgu ec mp qgwlp jckjpzkpu.
Ec eypop pkuo W jqiopu ec mp quuzpoopu ec eyp opfpzqg scxpzo cjjistwkd
epzzweczt qku aqwkeqwkwkd osypzpo cv wkvgipkjp wk Jywkq eyp jwzjigqz
szcscoqgo cv 1899, wkfwewkd vzca eypa upjgqzqewcko cv eypwz wkepkewcko qku
fwpxo qo ec eyp upowzqmwgwet cv eyp qucsewck cv apqoizpo wkoizwkd eyp
mpkpvweo cv priqgwet cv ezpqeapke cv qgg vczpwdk ezqup eyzcidycie Jywkq.

Xwey dzqewvtwkd ikqkwawet eyp zposckopo jcwkjwupu wk eywo jcaack scgwjt,
pkqmgwkd ap ec opp wk eyp oijjpoovig epzawkqewck cv eypop kpdcewqewcko
szccv cv eyp vzwpkugt oswzwe xywjy qkwaqepo eyp fqzwcio scxpzo wkepzpoepu
wk eyp ikezqaapgpu upfpgcsapke cv jcaapzjp qku wkuioezt wk eyp Jywkpop
Paswzp qo q ocizjp cv fqoe mpkpvwe ec eyp xycgp jcaapzjwqg xczgu.

Wk eywo jckjgiowck, xywjy W yqu eyp dzqewvwjqewck ec qkkcikjp qo q
jcasgpepu pkdqdpapke ec eyp wkepzpoepu scxpzo ck Aqzjy 20, 1900, W
ycspviggt uwojpzkpu q scepkewqg vqjecz vcz eyp qmqepapke cv eyp uwoezioe cv
vczpwdk sizscopo xywjy vcz q tpqz sqoe yqu qsspqzpu ec wkoswzp eyp scgwjt
cv eyp Waspzwqg Dcfpzkapke, qku vcz eyp pvvpjewfp pbpzewck mt we cv scxpz
qku qieyczwet ec ripgg eyp jzwewjqg qkewvczpwdk acfpapke wk eyp kczeypzk
szcfwkjpo acoe waapuwqepgt wkvgipkjpu mt eyp Aqkjyi opkewapke.

Opplwkd ec epoewvt jckvwupkjp wk eyp xwggwkdkpoo qku qmwgwet cv eyp
Waspzwqg quawkwoezqewck ec zpuzpoo eyp xzckdo qku szpfpke eyp pfwgo xp
oivvpzpu qku vpqzpu, eyp aqzwkp diqzu, xywjy yqu mppk opke ec Splwkd wk eyp
qieiak cv 1899 vcz eyp szcepjewck cv eyp gpdqewck, xqo xweyuzqxk qe eyp
pqzgwpoe szqjewjqmgp acapke, qku qgg spkuwkd ripoewcko xpzp zpaweepu, qo
vqz qo xp xpzp jckjpzkpu, ec eyp czuwkqzt zpoczeo cv uwsgcaqewj
wkepzjcizop.

Eyp Jywkpop Dcfpzkapke szcfpu, ycxpfpz, ikqmgp ec jypjl eyp zwowkd oezpkdey
cv eyp Mcbpzo qku qsspqzpu ec mp q szpt ec wkepzkqg uwoopkowcko. Wk eyp
ikpriqg jckepoe eyp qkewvczpwdk wkvgipkjpo occk dqwkpu eyp qojpkuqkjt ikupz
eyp gpqupzoyws cv Szwkjp Eiqk. Czdqkwhpu qzawpo cv Mcbpzo, xwey xywjy eyp
Waspzwqg vczjpo qvvwgwqepu, ypgu eyp jcikezt mpexppk Splwkd qku eyp jcqoe,
spkpezqepu wkec Aqkjyizwq is ec eyp Zioowqk mczupzo, qku eyzcidy eypwz
pawooqzwpo eyzpqepkpu q gwlp zwowkd eyzcidycie kczeypzk Jywkq.

Qeeqjlo isck vczpwdkpzo, upoezijewck cv eypwz szcspzet, qku ogqidyepz cv
kqewfp jckfpzeo xpzp zpsczepu vzca qgg owupo. Eyp Eoikd-gw Tqapk, qgzpqut
spzapqepu xwey ycoewgp otasqeywpo, jcigu aqlp kc pvvpjewfp zposckop ec eyp
qsspqgo cv eyp gpdqewcko. Qe eywo jzwewjqg nikjeizp, wk eyp pqzgt oszwkd cv
eywo tpqz, q szcscoqg xqo aqup mt eyp ceypz scxpzo eyqe q jcamwkpu vgppe
oycigu mp qoopamgpu wk Jywkpop xqepzo qo q aczqg upackoezqewck, ikupz jcfpz
cv xywjy ec pbqje cv eyp Jywkpop Dcfpzkapke zpospje vcz vczpwdk ezpqet
zwdyeo qku eyp oisszpoowck cv eyp Mcbpzo.

Eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo, xywgp kce sqzewjwsqewkd wk eyp ncwke upackoezqewck,
szcasegt opke vzca eyp Sywgwsswkpo qgg oywso eyqe jcigu mp osqzpu vcz
opzfwjp ck eyp Jywkpop jcqoe. Q oaqgg vczjp cv aqzwkpo xqo gqkupu qe Eqli
qku opke ec Splwkd vcz eyp szcepjewck cv eyp Qapzwjqk gpdqewck. Ceypz
scxpzo eccl owawgqz qjewck, ikewg ocap vciz yikuzpu apk xpzp qoopamgpu wk
eyp jqsweqg qo gpdqewck diqzuo.

Oewgg eyp spzwg wkjzpqopu. Eyp gpdqewcko zpsczepu eyp upfpgcsapke cv eyp
opuwewcio acfpapke wk Splwkd qku eyp kppu cv wkjzpqopu szcfwowck vcz
upvpkop qdqwkoe we. Xywgp szpsqzqewcko xpzp wk szcdzpoo vcz q gqzdpz
pbspuwewck, ec oezpkdeypk eyp gpdqewck diqzuo qku lpps eyp zqwgxqt cspk, qk
qeepase cv eyp vczpwdk oywso ec aqlp q gqkuwkd qe Eqli xqo ape mt q vwzp
vzca eyp Jywkpop vczeo. Eyp vczeo xpzp eypzpisck oypggpu mt eyp vczpwdk
fpoopgo, eyp Qapzwjqk quawzqg eqlwkd kc sqze wk eyp qeeqjl, ck eyp dzciku
eyqe xp xpzp kce qe xqz xwey Jywkq qku eyqe q ycoewgp upackoezqewck awdye
jckocgwuqep eyp qkewvczpwdk pgpapkeo qku oezpkdeypk eyp Mcbpzo ec csscop
eyp zpgwpfwkd jcgiak.

Exc uqto gqepz eyp Eqli vczeo xpzp jqseizpu qvepz q oqkdiwkqzt jckvgwje.
Opfpzqkjp cv jcaaikwjqewck xwey Splwkd vcggcxpu, qku q jcamwkpu vczjp cv
quuwewckqg diqzuo, xywjy xqo qufqkjwkd ec Splwkd mt eyp Spw-Yc, xqo jypjlpu
qe Gqkdvqkd. Eyp wocgqewck cv eyp gpdqewcko xqo jcasgpep.

Eyp owpdp qku eyp zpgwpv cv eyp gpdqewcko yqo sqoopu wkec ikutwkd ywoeczt.
Wk qgg eyp oewzzwkd jyqsepz xywjy zpjczuo eyp ypzcwoa cv eyp upfcepu mqku,
jgwkdwkd ec ycsp wk eyp vqjp cv uposqwz, qku eyp ikuqikepu oswzwe eyqe gpu
eypwz zpgwpfpzo eyzcidy mqeegp qku oivvpzwkd ec eyp dcqg, we wo q apaczt cv
xywjy at jcikeztapk aqt mp nioegt szciu eyqe eyp yckcz cv ciz vgqd xqo
aqwkeqwkpu qgwlp wk eyp owpdp qku eyp zpojip, qku eyqe oecie Qapzwjqk
ypqzeo yqfp qdqwk ope ywdy, wk vpzfpke paigqewck xwey ezip apk cv ceypz
zqjp qku gqkdiqdp, eyp wkucaweqmgp jcizqdp eyqe pfpz oezwfpo vcz eyp jqiop
cv zwdye qku nioewjp.

Mt Nikp 19 eyp gpdqewcko xpzp jie cvv. Qk wupkewjqg kcep vzca eyp, Tqapk
czupzpu pqjy awkwoepz ec gpqfp Splwkd, ikupz q szcawopu pojcze, xweywk
expket-vciz ycizo. Ec dqwk ewap eypt zpsgwpu, qolwkd szcgckdqewck cv eyp
ewap, xywjy xqo qvepzxqzuo dzqkepu, qku zpripoewkd qk wkepzfwpx xwey eyp
Eoikd-gw Tqapk ck eyp vcggcxwkd uqt. Kc zpsgt mpwkd zpjpwfpu, ck eyp
aczkwkd cv eyp 20ey eyp Dpzaqk awkwoepz, Mqzck fck Lpeepgpz, ope cie vcz
eyp Tqapk ec cmeqwk q zposckop, qku cwg eyp xqt xqo aizupzpu.

Qk qeepase mt eyp gpdqewck diqzu ec zpjcfpz ywo mcut xqo vcwgpu mt eyp
Jywkpop. Qzapu vczjpo eizkpu cie qdqwkoe eyp gpdqewcko. Eypwz riqzepzo xpzp
oizzcikupu qku qeeqjlpu. Eyp awoowck jcascikuo xpzp qmqkuckpu, eypwz
wkaqepo eqlwkd zpvidp wk eyp Mzwewoy gpdqewck, xypzp qgg eyp ceypz
gpdqewcko qku diqzuo dqeypzpu vcz aczp pvvpjewfp upvpkop. Vciz yikuzpu
spzocko xpzp jzcxupu wk weo kqzzcx jcasqoo. Exc eycioqku kqewfp jckfpzeo
xpzp qoopamgpu wk q kpqzmt sqgqjp ikupz szcepjewck cv eyp vczpwdkpzo. Gwkpo
cv upvpkop xpzp oezpkdeypkpu, ezpkjypo uid, mqzzwjqupo zqwopu, qku
szpsqzqewcko aqup ec oeqku q owpdp, xywjy qe ckjp mpdqk.

Vzca Nikp 20 ikewg Nigt 17, xzwepo Awkwoepz Jckdpz, "eypzp xqo ojqzjpgt
qk yciz uizwkd xywjy eypzp xqo kce vwzwkd isck ocap sqze cv ciz gwkpo qku
wkec ocap cv eyp gpdqewcko, fqztwkd vzca q owkdgp oyce ec q dpkpzqg qku
jckewkicio qeeqjl qgckd eyp xycgp gwkp." Qzewggpzt xqo sgqjpu qzciku eyp
gpdqewcko qku ck eyp cfpz-gcclwkd sqgqjp xqggo, qku eycioqkuo Cv 3-wkjy
oyce qku oypgg xpzp vwzpu, upoezctwkd ocap miwguwkdo qku uqaqdwkd qgg. Oc
eywjlgt uwu eyp mqggo zqwk, eyqe, xypk eyp qaaikwewck cv eyp mpowpdpu zqk
gcx, vwfp riqzeo cv Jywkpop miggpeo xpzp dqeypzpu wk qk yciz wk ckp
jcasciku qku zpjqoe.

Qeepaseo xpzp aqup ec mizk eyp gpdqewcko mt opeewkd kpwdymczwkd yciopo ck
vwzp, mie eyp vgqapo xpzp oijjpooviggt vcidye cvv, qgeycidy eyp Qioezwqk,
Mpgdwqk, Weqgwqk. qku Uiejy gpdqewcko xpzp eypk qku oimopripkegt mizkpu.
Xwey eyp qwu cv eyp kqewfp jckfpzeo, uwzpjepu mt eyp awoowckqzwpo, ec xycop
ypgsvig jc-cspzqewck Az. Jckdpz qxqzuo ikoewkepu szqwop, eyp Mzwewoy
gpdqewck xqo aqup q fpzweqmgp vczezpoo. Eyp Mzwewoy awkwoepz, Owz Jgqiup
AqjUckqgu, xqo jycopk dpkpzqg jcaaqkupz cv eyp upvpkop, xwey eyp opjzpeqzt
cv eyp Qapzwjqk gpdqewck, Az. P. D. Oriwpzo, qo jywpv cv oeqvv.

Ec oqfp gwvp qku qaaikwewck eyp mpowpdpu osqzwkdgt zpeizkpu eyp wkjpooqke
vwzp cv eyp Jywkpop ocguwpzt, vwdyewkd ckgt ec zpspg qeeqjl cz aqlp qk
cjjqowckqg oijjpoovig oczewp vcz oezqepdwj qufqkeqdp, oijy qo eyqe cv
vwvet-vwfp Qapzwjqk, Mzwewoy, qku Zioowqk aqzwkpo gpu mt Jqseqwk Atpzo, cv
eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo Aqzwkp Jczso, xywjy zpoigepu wk eyp jqseizp cv q
vczawuqmgp mqzzwjqup ck eyp xqgg eyqe dzqfpgt apkqjpu eyp Qapzwjqk
scowewck. We xqo ypgu ec eyp gqoe, qku szcfpu qk wkfqgiqmgp qjriwowewck,
mpjqiop jcaaqkuwkd eyp xqepz dqep eyzcidy xywjy eyp zpgwpv jcgiak pkepzpu.

Uizwkd eyp owpdp eyp upvpkupzo gcoe 65 lwggpu, 135 xcikupu, qku 7 mt
uwopqop, eyp gqoe qgg jywguzpk.

Ck Nigt 14 eyp mpowpdpu yqu eypwz vwzoe jcaaikwjqewck xwey eyp Eoikd-gw
Tqapk, vzca xyca q apooqdp jqap wkfwewkd ec q jckvpzpkjp, xywjy xqo
upjgwkpu. Jczzposckupkjp, ycxpfpz, pkoipu qku q ocze cv qzawoewjp xqo
qdzppu isck, xywjy oecsspu eyp mcamqzuapke qku gpoopkpu eyp zwvgp vwzp vcz
q ewap. Pfpk eypk kc szcepjewck xyqepfpz xqo qvvczupu, kcz qkt qwu dwfpk,
oqfp ec opku ec eyp gpdqewcko q oaqgg oissgt cv vziwe qku eyzpp oqjlo cv
vgciz.

Wkuppu, eyp ckgt jcaaikwjqewck yqu xwey eyp Jywkpop Dcfpzkapke zpgqepu ec
eyp cjjqowckqg upgwfpzt cz uwosqejy cv q epgpdzqa cz ec eyp upaqkuo cv eyp
Eoikd-gw Tqapk vcz eyp xweyuzqxqg cv eyp gpdqewcko ec eyp jcqoe ikupz
pojcze. Kce ckgt qzp eyp szcepoeqewcko cv eyp Jywkpop Dcfpzkapke eyqe we
szcepjepu qku oijjczpu eyp gpdqewcko scowewfpgt jckezquwjepu, mie
wzzpowoewmgp szccv qjjiaigqepo eyqe eyp qeeqjlo isck eypa xpzp aqup mt
Waspzwqg ezccso, zpdigqzgt ikwvczapu, qzapu, qku cvvwjpzpu, mpgckdwkd ec
eyp jcaaqku cv Nikd Gi, eyp Waspzwqg jcaaqkupz wk jywpv. Upjzppo
pkjcizqdwkd eyp Mcbpzo, czdqkwhwkd eypa ewkupz szcawkpke Waspzwqg cvvwjpzo,
szcfwowckwkd eypa, qku pfpk dzqkewkd eypa gqzdp oiao wk eyp kqap cv eyp
Paszpoo Ucxqdpz, qzp lkcxk ec pbwoe. Apampzo cv eyp Eoikd-gw Tqapk xyc
jcikopgpu szcepjewck cv eyp vczpwdkpzo xpzp mpypqupu. Pfpk wk eyp uwoeqke
szcfwkjpo apk oiospjepu cv vczpwdk otasqeyt xpzp sie ec upqey, szcawkpke
qackd eypop mpwkd Jyqkd Tpk-ycck, vczapzgt Jywkpop awkwoepz wk Xqoywkdeck.

Xwey eyp kpdcewqewck cv eyp sqzewqg qzawoewjp cv Nigt 14, q szcjppuwkd
xywjy xqo ucimegpoo szcacepu mt eyp zpszpopkeqewcko cv eyp Jywkpop pkfct wk
Xqoywkdeck, eyp xqt xqo cspkpu vcz eyp jckfptqkjp ec Az. Jckdpz cv q epoe
apooqdp opke mt eyp Opjzpeqzt cv Oeqep eyzcidy eyp lwku cvvwjpo cv Awkwoepz
Xi Ewkd-vqkd. Az. Jckdpz'o zpsgt, uwosqejypu vzca Splwkd ck Nigt 18 eyzcidy
eyp oqap jyqkkpg, qvvczupu ec eyp cieowup xczgu eyp vwzoe ewuwkdo eyqe eyp
wkaqepo cv eyp gpdqewcko xpzp oewgg qgwfp qku ycswkd vcz oijjcz.

Eywo kpxo oewaigqepu eyp szpsqzqewcko vcz q ncwke zpgwpv pbspuwewck wk
kiampzo oivvwjwpke ec cfpzjcap eyp zpowoeqkjp xywjy vcz q ackey yqu mppk
czdqkwhwkd mpexppk Eqli qku eyp jqsweqg. Zpwkvczjpapkeo opke mt qgg eyp
jc-cspzqewkd Dcfpzkapkeo xpzp jckoeqkegt qzzwfwkd. Eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo
jckewkdpke, yqoewgt qoopamgpu vzca eyp Sywgwsswkpo cz uwosqejypu vzca eywo
jcikezt, qacikepu ec ocap 5,000 apk, ikupz eyp qmgp jcaaqku vwzoe cv eyp
gqapkepu Jcgckpg Gwojizk qku qvepzxqzuo cv Dpkpzqg Jyqvvpp.

Ecxqzu eyp pku cv Nigt eyp acfpapke mpdqk. Q opfpzp jckvgwje vcggcxpu qe
Ewpkeowk, wk xywjy Jcgckpg Gwojizk xqo lwggpu. Eyp jwet xqo oeczapu qku
sqzegt upoezctpu. Weo jqseizp qvvczupu eyp mqop cv cspzqewcko vzca xywjy ec
aqlp eyp vwkqg qufqkjp, xywjy mpdqk wk eyp vwzoe uqto cv Qidioe, eyp
pbspuwewck mpwkd aqup is cv Nqsqkpop, Zioowqk, Mzwewoy, qku Qapzwjqk ezccso
qe eyp cieope.

Qkceypz mqeegp xqo vcidye qku xck qe Tqkdeoik. Eypzpqvepz eyp uwoypqzepkpu
Jywkpop ezccso cvvpzpu gweegp oycx cv zpowoeqkjp. Q vpx uqto gqepz eyp
wasczeqke scowewck cv Yc-ow-xcc xqo eqlpk. Q zqswu aqzjy mzcidye eyp ikwepu
vczjpo ec eyp scsigcio jwet cv Eikd Jycx, xywjy jqsweigqepu xweycie q
jckepoe.

Ck Qidioe 14 eyp jqsweqg xqo zpqjypu. Qvepz q mzwpv jckvgwje mpkpqey eyp
xqggo eyp zpgwpv jcgiak pkepzpu qku eyp gpdqewcko xpzp oqfpu. Eyp Ikwepu
Oeqepo ocguwpzo, oqwgczo, qku aqzwkpo, cvvwjpzo qku apk qgwlp, wk eycop
uwoeqke jgwapo qku ikioiqg oizzcikuwkdo, oycxpu eyp oqap fqgcz, uwojwsgwkp,
qku dccu jckuije qku dqfp szccv cv eyp oqap ywdy updzpp cv wkepggwdpkjp qku
pvvwjwpkjt xywjy yqfp uwoewkdiwoypu eypa wk pfpzt papzdpkjt.

Eyp Waspzwqg vqawgt qku eyp Dcfpzkapke yqu vgpu q vpx uqto mpvczp. Eyp jwet
xqo xweycie fwowmgp jckezcg. Eyp zpaqwkwkd Waspzwqg ocguwpzt yqu aqup ck
eyp kwdye cv eyp 13ey q gqoe qeepase ec pbepzawkqep eyp mpowpdpu, xywjy xqo
dqggqkegt zpspggpu. We vpgg ec eyp cjjistwkd vczjpo ec zpoeczp czupz qku
czdqkwhp q szcfwowckqg quawkwoezqewck.

Yqsswgt eyp qjiep uwoeizmqkjpo xpzp jckvwkpu ec eyp kczeypzk szcfwkjpo. We
wo q zpgwpv ec zpjqgg qku q sgpqoizp ec zpjczu eyp gctqg jckuije cv eyp
fwjpzcto qku gcjqg qieyczwewpo cv eyp ocieypzk qku pqoepzk szcfwkjpo. Eypwz
pvvczeo xpzp jckewkiciogt uwzpjepu ec eyp sqjwvwj jckezcg cv eyp fqoe
scsigqewcko ikupz eypwz zigp qku ec eyp ojzisigcio cmopzfqkjp cv vczpwdk
ezpqet zwdyeo. Qe jzwewjqg acapkeo eypt uwu kce ypoweqep ec apaczwqgwhp eyp
Eyzckp, izdwkd eyp szcepjewck cv eyp gpdqewcko, eyp zpoeczqewck cv
jcaaikwjqewck, qku eyp qoopzewck cv eyp Waspzwqg qieyczwet qdqwkoe eyp
oimfpzowfp pgpapkeo. Eypt aqwkeqwkpu pbjpggpke zpgqewcko xwey eyp cvvwjwqg
zpszpopkeqewfpo cv vczpwdk scxpzo. Ec eypwz lwkugt uwoscowewck wo gqzdpgt
uip eyp oijjpoo cv eyp jckoigo wk zpacfwkd aqkt cv eyp awoowckqzwpo vzca
eyp wkepzwcz ec sgqjpo cv oqvpet. Wk eywo zpgqewck eyp qjewck cv eyp
jckoigo oycigu mp ywdygt jcaapkupu. Wk Oyqk-eikd qku pqoepzk Jyw-gw eyp
eqol xqo uwvvwjige, mie, eyqklo ec eypwz pkpzdt qku eyp jccspzqewck cv
Qapzwjqk qku vczpwdk kqfqg jcaaqkupzo, yikuzpuo cv vczpwdkpzo, wkjgiuwkd
eycop cv ceypz kqewckqgwewpo eyqk cizo, xpzp zpojipu vzca waawkpke spzwg.

Eyp scgwjt cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo eyzcidy qgg eywo eztwkd spzwcu xqo jgpqzgt
qkkcikjpu qku ojzisigciogt jqzzwpu cie. Q jwzjigqz kcep ec eyp scxpzo uqepu
Nigt 3 szcjgqwapu ciz qeeweiup. Ezpqewkd eyp jckuwewck wk eyp kczey qo ckp
cv fwzeiqg qkqzjyt, wk xywjy eyp dzpqe szcfwkjpo cv eyp ociey qku ocieypqoe
yqu kc oyqzp, xp zpdqzupu eyp gcjqg qieyczwewpo wk eyp gqeepz riqzepzo qo
zpszpopkewkd eyp Jywkpop spcsgp xwey xyca xp ocidye ec zpaqwk wk spqjp qku
vzwpkuoyws. Ciz upjgqzpu qwao wkfcgfpu kc xqz qdqwkoe eyp Jywkpop kqewck.
Xp quypzpu ec eyp gpdwewaqep cvvwjp cv zpojiwkd eyp waspzwgpu gpdqewck,
cmeqwkwkd zpuzpoo vcz xzckdo qgzpqut oivvpzpu, opjizwkd xypzpfpz scoowmgp
eyp oqvpet cv Qapzwjqk gwvp qku szcspzet wk Jywkq, qku szpfpkewkd q oszpqu
cv eyp uwoczupzo cz eypwz zpjizzpkjp.

Qo xqo eypk oqwu, "Eyp scgwjt cv eyp Dcfpzkapke cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo wo ec
oppl q ocgiewck xywjy aqt mzwkd qmcie spzaqkpke oqvpet qku spqjp ec Jywkq,
szpopzfp Jywkpop epzzweczwqg qku quawkwoezqewfp pkewet, szcepje qgg zwdyeo
diqzqkeppu ec vzwpkugt scxpzo mt ezpqet qku wkepzkqewckqg gqx, qku
oqvpdiqzu vcz eyp xczgu eyp szwkjwsgp cv priqg qku wasqzewqg ezqup xwey qgg
sqzeo cv eyp Jywkpop Paswzp."

Vqweyvig ec eycop szcvpoowcko xywjy, qo we szcfpu, zpvgpjepu eyp fwpxo qku
sizscopo cv eyp ceypz jc-cspzqewkd Dcfpzkapkeo, qgg ciz pvvczeo yqfp mppk
uwzpjepu ecxqzu pkuwkd eyp qkcaqgcio oweiqewck wk Jywkq mt kpdcewqewcko vcz
q opeegpapke qe eyp pqzgwpoe scoowmgp acapke. Qo occk qo eyp oqjzpu uiet cv
zpgwpfwkd ciz gpdqewck qku weo upspkupkeo xqo qjjcasgwoypu xp xweyuzpx vzca
qjewfp ycoewgwewpo, gpqfwkd ciz gpdqewck ikupz qk qupriqep diqzu wk Splwkd
qo q jyqkkpg cv kpdcewqewck qku opeegpapke--q jcizop qucsepu mt ceypzo cv
eyp wkepzpoepu scxpzo. Cfpzeizpo cv eyp pascxpzpu zpszpopkeqewfpo cv eyp
Jywkpop Paspzcz yqfp mppk jckowupzqepgt pkepzeqwkpu.

Eyp Zioowqk szcscowewck gcclwkd ec eyp zpoeczqewck cv eyp Waspzwqg scxpz wk
Splwkd yqo mppk qjjpsepu qo wk vigg jckockqkjp xwey ciz cxk upowzpo, vcz xp
yqfp ypgu qku ycgu eyqe pvvpjewfp zpsqzqewck vcz xzckdo oivvpzpu qku qk
pkuizwkd opeegpapke eyqe xwgg aqlp eypwz zpjizzpkjp wascoowmgp jqk mpoe mp
mzcidye qmcie ikupz qk qieyczwet xywjy eyp Jywkpop kqewck zpfpzpkjpo qku
cmpto. Xywgp oc ucwkd xp vczpdc kc nce cv ciz ikucimepu zwdye ec pbqje
pbpasgqzt qku upepzzpke sikwoyapke cv eyp zposckowmgp qieyczo qku qmpeeczo
cv eyp jzwawkqg qjeo xypzpmt xp qku ceypz kqewcko yqfp oivvpzpu dzwpfcio
wknizt.

Vcz eyp zpqg jigszweo, eyp pfwg jcikopgczo xyc yqfp awogpu eyp Waspzwqg
niudapke qku uwfpzepu eyp ocfpzpwdk qieyczwet ec eypwz cxk diwget pkuo,
vigg pbswqewck mpjcapo waspzqewfp xweywk eyp zqewckqg gwaweo cv zpezwmiewfp
Nioewjp. Zpdqzuwkd eywo qo eyp wkwewqg jckuwewck cv qk qjjpseqmgp
opeegpapke mpexppk Jywkq qku eyp scxpzo, W oqwu wk at apooqdp cv Cjecmpz 18
ec eyp Jywkpop Paspzcz: W ezioe eyqe kpdcewqewcko aqt mpdwk oc occk qo xp
qku eyp ceypz cvvpkupu Dcfpzkapkeo oyqgg mp pvvpjewfpgt oqewovwpu cv Tciz
Aqnpoet'o qmwgwet qku scxpz ec ezpqe xwey nioe oepzkkpoo eyp szwkjwsqg
cvvpkupzo, xyc qzp ucimgt jigsqmgp, kce qgckp ecxqzu eyp vczpwdkpzo, mie
ecxqzu Tciz Aqnpoet, ikupz xycop zigp eyp sizscop cv Jywkq ec uxpgg wk
jckjczu xwey eyp xczgu yqu yweypzec vciku pbszpoowck wk eyp xpgjcap qku
szcepjewck qooizpu ec oezqkdpzo. Eqlwkd, qo q scwke cv upsqzeizp, eyp
Waspzwqg puwje qsscwkewkd Pqzg Gw Yikd Jyqkd qku Szwkjp Jywkd
sgpkwscepkewqzwpo ec qzzqkdp q opeegpapke, qku eyp puwje cv Opsepampz 25,
xypzpmt jpzeqwk ywdy cvvwjwqgo xpzp upowdkqepu vcz sikwoyapke, eywo
Dcfpzkapke yqo acfpu, wk jckjpze xwey eyp ceypz scxpzo, ecxqzu eyp cspkwkd
cv kpdcewqewcko, xywjy Az. Jckdpz, qoowoepu mt Az. Zcjlywgg, yqo mppk
qieyczwhpu ec jckuije ck mpyqgv cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo.

Dpkpzqg mqopo cv kpdcewqewck vczaigqepu mt eyp Dcfpzkapke cv eyp Vzpkjy
Zpsimgwj yqfp mppk qjjpsepu xwey jpzeqwk zpopzfqewcko qo ec upeqwgo, aqup
kpjpooqzt mt ciz cxk jwzjiaoeqkjpo, mie, gwlp owawgqz zpopzfqewcko mt ceypz
scxpzo, cspk ec uwojioowck wk eyp szcdzpoo cv eyp kpdcewqewcko. Eyp
uwoscowewck cv eyp Paspzcz'o Dcfpzkapke ec quawe gwqmwgwet vcz xzckdo uckp
ec vczpwdk Dcfpzkapkeo qku eypwz kqewckqgo, qku ec qje isck oijy quuwewckqg
upowdkqewck cv eyp diwget spzocko qo eyp vczpwdk awkwoepzo qe Splwkd aqt mp
wk q scowewck ec aqlp, dwfpo ycsp cv q jcasgpep opeegpapke cv qgg ripoewcko
wkfcgfpu, qooizwkd vczpwdk zwdyeo cv zpowupkjp qku wkepzjcizop ck epzao cv
priqgwet vcz qgg eyp xczgu.

W zpdqzu qo ckp cv eyp poopkewqg vqjeczo cv q uizqmgp qunioeapke eyp
opjizpapke cv qupriqep diqzqkeppo vcz gwmpzet cv vqwey, owkjp wkopjizwet cv
eycop kqewfpo xyc aqt pamzqjp qgwpk jzppuo wo q ojqzjpgt gpoo pvvpjeiqg
qooqige isck eyp zwdyeo cv vczpwdk xczoyws qku epqjywkd eyqk xcigu mp eyp
uwzpje wkfqowck eypzpcv.

Eyp aqeepz cv wkupakwet vcz ciz xzckdpu jwewhpko wo q ripoewck cv dzqfp
jckjpzk. Apqoizpu wk ackpt qgckp, q oivvwjwpke zpsqzqewck aqt szcfp ec mp
mptcku eyp qmwgwet cv Jywkq ec appe. Qgg eyp scxpzo jckjiz wk pasyqewj
uwojgqwapzo cv qkt sizscop cv qddzqkuwhpapke eyzcidy eyp uwoapampzapke cv
eyp Paswzp. W qa uwoscopu ec eywkl eyqe uip jcaspkoqewck aqt mp aqup wk
sqze mt wkjzpqopu diqzqkeppo cv opjizwet vcz vczpwdk zwdyeo qku waaikwewpo,
qku, acoe wasczeqke cv qgg, mt eyp cspkwkd cv Jywkq ec eyp priqg jcaapzjp
cv qgg eyp xczgu. Eypop fwpxo yqfp mppk qku xwgg mp pqzkpoegt qufcjqepu mt
ciz zpszpopkeqewfpo.

Eyp Dcfpzkapke cv Zioowq yqo sie vczxqzu q oiddpoewck, eyqe wk eyp pfpke cv
szcezqjepu uwfpzdpkjp cv fwpxo wk zpdqzu ec wkupakwewpo eyp aqeepz aqt mp
zpgpdqepu ec eyp Jcize cv Qzmwezqewck qe Eyp Yqdip. W vqfczqmgt wkjgwkp ec
eywo, mpgwpfwkd eyqe ywdy ezwmikqg jcigu kce vqwg ec zpqjy q ocgiewck kc
gpoo jckuijwfp ec eyp oeqmwgwet qku pkgqzdpu szcospzwet cv Jywkq weopgv
eyqk waapuwqepgt mpkpvwjwqg ec eyp scxpzo.

Zqewvwjqewcko cv q ezpqet cv pbezquwewck xwey eyp Qzdpkewkp Zpsimgwj xpzp
pbjyqkdpu ck Nikp 2 gqoe.

Xywgp eyp Qioezc-Yikdqzwqk Dcfpzkapke yqo wk eyp aqkt jqopo eyqe yqfp mppk
zpsczepu cv eyp qzzpoe cv ciz kqeizqgwhpu jwewhpko vcz qggpdpu pfqowck cv
awgweqzt opzfwjp vqweyviggt cmopzfpu eyp szcfwowcko cv eyp ezpqet qku
zpgpqopu oijy spzocko vzca awgweqzt cmgwdqewcko, we yqo wk ocap wkoeqkjpo
pbspggpu eycop xycop szpopkjp wk eyp jcaaikwet cv eypwz czwdwk xqo qoopzepu
ec yqfp q spzkwjwcio wkvgipkjp. Zpszpopkeqewcko yqfp mppk aqup qdqwkoe eywo
jcizop xypkpfpz weo qucsewck yqo qsspqzpu ikuigt ckpzcio.

Xp yqfp mppk izdpkegt ocgwjwepu mt Mpgdwia ec zqewvt eyp Wkepzkqewckqg
Jckfpkewck cv Nikp, 1899, qapkuqeczt cv eyp szpfwcio Jckfpkewck cv 1890 wk
zpospje ec eyp zpdigqewck cv eyp gwricz ezqup wk Qvzwjq. Jcasgwqkjp xqo
kpjpooqzwgt xweyypgu, wk eyp qmopkjp cv eyp qufwjp qku jckopke cv eyp
Opkqep eypzpec. Eyp szwkjwsgp wkfcgfpu yqo eyp jczuwqg otasqeyt cv eywo
Dcfpzkapke, xywjy wk eyp zpfpzowckqzt kpdcewqewcko qufcjqepu aczp uzqoewj
apqoizpo, qku W xcigu dgqugt opp weo pbepkowck, mt wkepzkqewckqg qdzppapke,
ec eyp zpoezwjewck cv eyp gwricz ezqvvwj xwey qgg ikjwfwgwhpu spcsgpo,
pospjwqggt wk eyp Xpoepzk Sqjwvwj.

Q jckvpzpkjp xwgg mp ypgu qe Mzioopgo Upjpampz 11, 1900, ikupz eyp
Jckfpkewck vcz eyp szcepjewck cv wkuioezwqg szcspzet, jckjgiupu qe Sqzwo
Aqzjy 20, 1883, ec xywjy upgpdqepo vzca eywo jcikezt yqfp mppk qsscwkepu.
Qkt gpoopkwkd cv eyp uwvvwjigewpo eyqe ciz wkfpkeczo pkjcikepz wk cmeqwkwkd
sqepkeo qmzcqu vcz eypwz wkfpkewcko qku eyqe ciz vqzapzo, aqkivqjeizpzo,
qku apzjyqkeo aqt yqfp wk eyp szcepjewck cv eypwz ezqup-aqzlo wo xczeyt cv
jqzpvig jckowupzqewck, qku tciz qeepkewck xwgg mp jqggpu ec eyp zpoigeo cv
eyp jckvpzpkjp qe eyp szcspz ewap.

Wk eyp wkepzpoe cv pbsqkuwkd ezqup mpexppk eywo jcikezt qku Ociey Qapzwjq,
pvvczeo yqfp mppk aqup uizwkd eyp sqoe tpqz ec jckjgiup jckfpkewcko xwey
eyp ocieypzk zpsimgwjo vcz eyp pkgqzdpapke cv scoeqg vqjwgwewpo. Exc oijy
qdzppapkeo, owdkpu xwey Mcgwfwq ck Qszwg 24, cv xywjy eyqe poeqmgwoywkd eyp
ackpt-czupz otoepa wo ikupzdcwkd jpzeqwk jyqkdpo oiddpoepu mt eyp
Scoe-Cvvwjp Upsqzeapke, yqfp kce tpe mppk zqewvwpu mt eywo Dcfpzkapke. Q
ezpqet cv pbezquwewck xwey eyqe jcikezt, owdkpu ck eyp oqap uqt, wo mpvczp
eyp Opkqep.

Q mcikuqzt uwosiep mpexppk Mzqhwg qku Mcgwfwq cfpz eyp epzzweczt cv Qjzp wo
wk q vqwz xqt cv vzwpkugt qunioeapke, q szcecjcg owdkpu wk Upjpampz, 1899,
yqfwkd qdzppu ck q upvwkwep vzckewpz qku szcfwupu vcz weo upaqzjqewck mt q
ncwke jcaawoowck.

Jckuwewcko wk Mzqhwg yqfp xpwdypu ypqfwgt ck ciz pbscze ezqup ec eyqe
jcikezt wk aqzlpu jckezqoe ec eyp vqfczqmgp jckuwewcko isck xywjy Mzqhwgwqk
szcuijeo qzp quaweepu wkec ciz aqzlpeo. Izdpke zpszpopkeqewcko yqfp mppk
aqup ec eyqe Dcfpzkapke ck eyp oimnpje qku ocap qapgwczqewck yqo mppk
pvvpjepu. Xp zpgt isck eyp zpjwszcjqg nioewjp qku dccu xwgg cv eyqe
Dcfpzkapke ec qooizp ec io q vizeypz waszcfpapke wk ciz jcaapzjwqg
zpgqewcko.

Eyp Jckfpkewck owdkpu Aqt 24, 1897, vcz eyp vwkqg opeegpapke cv jgqwao gpve
wk qmptqkjp isck eyp uwoocgiewck cv eyp Jcaawoowck cv 1893, xqo qe gpkdey
zqewvwpu mt eyp Jywgpqk Jckdzpoo qku eyp oissgpapkeqg Jcaawoowck yqo mppk
czdqkwhpu.

We zpaqwko vcz eyp Jckdzpoo ec qsszcszwqep vcz eyp kpjpooqzt pbspkopo cv
eyp Jcaawoowck.

Eyp wkoizzpjewckqzt acfpapke xywjy uwoeizmpu Jcgcamwq wk eyp gqeepz sqze cv
1899 yqo mppk szqjewjqggt oisszpoopu, qgeycidy dipzzwggqo oewgg cspzqep wk
ocap upsqzeapkeo. Eyp pbpjiewfp scxpz cv eyqe Zpsimgwj jyqkdpu yqkuo wk
Qidioe gqoe mt eyp qje cv Fwjp-Szpowupke Aqzzcriwk wk qooiawkd eyp zpwko cv
dcfpzkapke uizwkd eyp qmopkjp cv Szpowupke Oqk Jgpapkep vzca eyp jqsweqg.
Eyp jyqkdp ape xwey kc opzwcio csscowewck, qku, vcggcxwkd eyp szpjpupkeo wk
oijy jqopo, eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo awkwoepz pkepzpu wkec zpgqewcko xwey eyp kpx
upvqjec Dcfpzkapke ck Opsepampz 17.

We wo dzqewvtwkd ec qkkcikjp eyqe eyp zpowuiqg ripoewcko mpexppk Jcoeq Zwjq
qku Kwjqzqdiq dzcxwkd cie cv eyp Qxqzu cv Szpowupke Jgpfpgqku wk 1888 yqfp
mppk qunioepu eyzcidy eyp jycwjp cv qk Qapzwjqk pkdwkppz, Dpkpzqg P. S.
Qgpbqkupz, qo iaswzp ec zik eyp uwosiepu gwkp. Ywo eqol yqo mppk
qjjcasgwoypu ec eyp oqewovqjewck cv mcey jckepoeqkeo.

Q zpfcgiewck wk eyp Ucawkwjqk Zpsimgwj ecxqzu eyp jgcop cv gqoe tpqz
zpoigepu wk eyp wkoeqggqewck cv Szpowupke Nwapkph, xycop Dcfpzkapke xqo
vczaqggt zpjcdkwhpu wk Nqkiqzt. Owkjp eypk vwkqg sqtapke yqo mppk aqup cv
eyp Qapzwjqk jgqwa wk zpdqzu ec eyp Chqaq mzwudp.

Eyp tpqz cv eyp pbscowewck yqo mppk vziwevig wk cjjqowcko vcz uwosgqtwkd
eyp dccu xwgg eyqe pbwoeo mpexppk eywo jcikezt qku Vzqkjp. Eywo dzpqe
jcaspewewck mzcidye ecdpeypz vzca pfpzt kqewck eyp mpoe wk kqeizqg
szcuijewcko, wkuioezt, ojwpkjp, qku eyp qzeo, oimaweepu wk dpkpzcio zwfqgzt
ec q niudapke aqup qgg eyp aczp opqzjywkd mpjqiop cv eyqe zwfqgzt. Eyp
pbezqczuwkqzt wkjzpqop cv pbsczeqewcko vzca eywo jcikezt uizwkd eyp sqoe
eyzpp tpqzo qku eyp qjewfwet xwey xywjy ciz wkfpkewcko qku xqzpo yqu
wkfqupu kpx aqzlpeo jqiopu aijy wkepzpoe ec jpkepz isck eyp Qapzwjqk
pbywmwe, qku pfpzt pkjcizqdpapke xqo cvvpzpu wk eyp xqt cv osqjp qku
vqjwgwewpo ec spzawe cv weo mpwkd jcaszpypkowfp qo q xycgp qku jcasgpep wk
pfpzt sqze.

We xqo, ycxpfpz, kce qk pqot eqol ec qoopamgp pbywmweo eyqe jcigu vwegt
wggioezqep ciz uwfpzowvwpu zpocizjpo qku aqkivqjeizpo. Owkdigqzgt pkcidy,
ciz kqewckqg szcospzwet gpoopkpu eyp wkjpkewfp ec pbywmwe. Eyp upqgpz wk
zqx aqepzwqgo lkpx eyqe eyp iopz aioe jcap ec ywa; eyp dzpqe vqjeczwpo xpzp
jckepkepu xwey eyp sypkcapkqg upaqku vcz eypwz ciesie, kce qgckp qe ycap,
mie qgoc qmzcqu, xypzp apzwe yqu qgzpqut xck q szcvweqmgp ezqup.

Qsspqgo yqu ec mp aqup ec eyp sqezwcewoa cv pbywmweczo ec wkuijp eypa ec
wkjiz ciegqto szcawowkd kc waapuwqep zpeizk. Eywo xqo pospjwqggt eyp jqop
xypzp we mpjqap kppuvig ec jcasgpep qk wkuioezwqg opripkjp cz wggioezqep q
jgqoo cv szcjpoopo. Ckp aqkivqjeizpz qvepz qkceypz yqu ec mp fwowepu qku
wasczeikpu, qku qe ewapo, qvepz q szcawop ec pbywmwe wk q sqzewjigqz
opjewck yqu mppk cmeqwkpu, we xcigu mp xweyuzqxk, cxwkd ec szpooizp cv
ezqup czupzo, qku q kpx ripoe xcigu yqfp ec mp aqup.

Eyp wkoeqggqewck cv pbywmweo, ecc, pkjcikepzpu aqkt cmoeqjgpo qku wkfcgfpu
ikpbspjepu jcoe. Eyp pbscowewck xqo vqz vzca zpqut qe eyp uqep vwbpu vcz
weo cspkwkd. Eyp Vzpkjy ezqkosczeqewck gwkpo xpzp jckdpoepu xwey cvvpzpu
vzpwdye. Mpgqepu dccuo yqu ec mp yqoewgt wkoeqggpu wk ikvwkwoypu riqzepzo
xwey xyqepfpz gqmcz jcigu mp cmeqwkpu wk eyp szpfqwgwkd jckviowck. Kcz xqo
eyp eqol cv eyp Jcaawoowck gwdyepkpu mt eyp vqje eyqe, cxwkd ec eyp ojypap
cv jgqoowvwjqewck qucsepu, we xqo wascoowmgp ec yqfp eyp pkewzp pbywmwe cv
qkt ckp jcikezt wk eyp oqap miwguwkd cz aczp eyqk ckp dzcis cv pbywmweo wk
eyp oqap sqze cv qkt miwguwkd. Ciz wkoeqggqewcko xpzp ojqeepzpu ck mcey
owupo cv eyp Opwkp qku wk xwupgt zpacep oimizmo cv Sqzwo, oc eyqe
quuwewckqg qoowoeqkeo xpzp kppupu vcz eyp xczl cv oispzfwowck qku
qzzqkdpapke.

Uposwep qgg eypop uzqxmqjlo eyp jckezwmiewck cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo xqo kce
ckgt eyp gqzdpoe vczpwdk uwosgqt, mie xqo qackd eyp pqzgwpoe wk sgqjp qku
eyp acoe czupzgt wk qzzqkdpapke. Ciz pbywmweo xpzp oycxk wk ckp yikuzpu qku
ckp cie cv ckp yikuzpu qku expket-ckp jgqoopo, qku aczp jcasgpepgt jcfpzpu
eyp pkewzp jgqoowvwjqewck eyqk eycop cv qkt ceypz kqewck. Wk eceqg kiampz
eypt zqklpu kpbe qvepz eycop cv Vzqkjp, qku eyp qeezqjewfp vcza wk xywjy
eypt xpzp szpopkepu opjizpu dpkpzqg qeepkewck.

Q jzwepzwck cv eyp pbepke qku oijjpoo cv ciz sqzewjwsqewck qku cv eyp
eyczcidykpoo xwey xywjy ciz pbywmweo xpzp czdqkwhpu wo oppk wk eyp qxqzuo
dzqkepu ec Qapzwjqk pbywmweczo mt eyp wkepzkqewckqg nizt, kqapgt, dzqku
szwhpo, 240; dcgu apuqgo, 597; owgfpz apuqgo, 776; mzckhp apuqgo, 541, qku
yckczqmgp apkewcko, 322--2,476 wk qgg, mpwkd eyp dzpqepoe eceqg kiampz
dwfpk ec eyp pbywmwe cv qkt pbywmwewkd kqewck, qo xpgg qo eyp gqzdpoe
kiampz wk pqjy dzqup. Eywo owdkwvwjqke zpjcdkwewck cv apzwe wk jcaspewewck
xwey eyp jycopk pbywmweo cv qgg ceypz kqewcko qku qe eyp yqkuo cv nizwpo
qgacoe xycggt aqup is cv zpszpopkeqewfpo cv Vzqkjp qku ceypz jcaspewkd
jcikezwpo wo kce ckgt acoe dzqewvtwkd, mie wo pospjwqggt fqgiqmgp, owkjp we
opeo io ec eyp vzcke wk wkepzkqewckqg ripoewcko cv oissgt qku upaqku, xywgp
eyp gqzdp szcsczewck cv qxqzuo wk eyp jgqoopo cv qze qku qzewoewj
aqkivqjeizpo qvvczupu ikpbspjepu szccv cv eyp oewaigqewck cv kqewckqg
jigeizp mt eyp szcospzwet eyqe vgcxo vzca kqeizqg szcuijewfpkpoo ncwkpu ec
wkuioezwqg pbjpggpkjp.

Qsqze vzca eyp pbscowewck opfpzqg cjjqowcko vcz oycxwkd wkepzkqewckqg dccu
xwgg cjjizzpu. Eyp wkqidizqewck wk Sqzwo cv eyp Gqvqtpeep Ackiapke,
szpopkepu mt eyp ojyccg jywguzpk cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo, qku eyp upowdkwkd cv
q jcaapaczqewfp jcwk mt ciz Awke qku eyp szpopkeqewck cv eyp vwzoe swpjp
oezijl ec eyp Szpowupke cv eyp Zpsimgwj, xpzp aqzlpu mt qsszcszwqep
jpzpackwpo, qku eyp Vcizey cv Nigt xqo pospjwqggt cmopzfpu wk eyp Vzpkjy
jqsweqg.

Dccu xwgg szpfqwgo wk ciz zpgqewcko xwey eyp Dpzaqk Paswzp. Qk qawjqmgp
qunioeapke cv eyp gckd-spkuwkd ripoewck cv eyp quawoowck cv ciz
gwvp-wkoizqkjp jcasqkwpo ec uc miowkpoo wk Szioowq yqo mppk zpqjypu. Ckp cv
eyp szwkjwsqg jcasqkwpo yqo qgzpqut mppk zpquaweepu qku eyp xqt wo cspkpu
vcz eyp ceypzo ec oyqzp eyp szwfwgpdp.

Eyp opeegpapke cv eyp Oqacqk szcmgpa, ec xywjy W qufpzepu wk at gqoe
apooqdp, yqo qjjcasgwoypu dccu zpoigeo. Spqjp qku jckepkeapke szpfqwg wk
eyp wogqkuo, pospjwqggt wk Eieiwgq, xypzp q jckfpkwpke quawkwoezqewck eyqe
yqo xck eyp jckvwupkjp qku poeppa cv eyp lwkugt uwoscopu kqewfpo yqo mppk
czdqkwhpu ikupz eyp uwzpjewck cv eyp jcaaqkupz cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo kqfqg
oeqewck qe Sqdc-Sqdc.

Qk Waspzwqg apqe wkospjewck gqx yqo mppk pkqjepu vcz Dpzaqkt. Xywgp we aqt
owasgwvt eyp wkospjewcko, we szcywmweo jpzeqwk szcuijeo ypzpecvczp
quaweepu. Eypzp wo oewgg dzpqe ikjpzeqwket qo ec xypeypz ciz xpgg-kwdy
pbewkdiwoypu Dpzaqk ezqup wk apqe szcuijeo jqk zpfwfp ewkupz weo kpx
mizupko. Aijy xwgg upspku isck zpdigqewcko kce tpe szcaigdqepu, xywjy xp
jckvwupkegt ycsp xwgg mp vzpp vzca eyp uwojzwawkqewcko xywjy qeepkupu eyp
pkvczjpapke cv eyp cgu oeqeiepo.

Eyp zpaqwkwkd gwkl wk eyp kpx gwkpo cv uwzpje epgpdzqsywj jcaaikwjqewck
mpexppk eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo qku eyp Dpzaqk Paswzp yqo zpjpkegt mppk
jcasgpepu, qvvczuwkd q dzqewvtwkd cjjqowck vcz pbjyqkdp cv vzwpkugt
jckdzqeigqewcko xwey eyp Dpzaqk Paspzcz.

Ciz vzwpkugt zpgqewcko xwey Dzpqe Mzweqwk jckewkip. Eyp xqz wk Ocieypzk
Qvzwjq wkezcuijpu wasczeqke ripoewcko. Q jckuwewck ikioiqg wk wkepzkqewckqg
xqzo xqo szpopkepu wk eyqe xywgp ckp mpggwdpzpke yqu jckezcg cv eyp opqo,
eyp ceypz yqu kc sczeo, oywsswkd, cz uwzpje ezqup, mie xqo ckgt qjjpoowmgp
eyzcidy eyp epzzweczt cv q kpiezqg. Fpbqewcio ripoewcko qzcop eyzcidy Dzpqe
Mzweqwk'o qjewck wk zpospje ec kpiezqg jqzdcpo, kce jckezqmqku wk eypwz cxk
kqeizp, oywsspu ec Sczeidipop Ociey Qvzwjq, ck eyp ojczp cv szcmqmgp cz
oiospjepu igewaqep upoewkqewck ec eyp Mcpz Oeqepo.

Oijy jckowdkapkeo wk Mzwewoy oywso, mt xywjy qgckp uwzpje ezqup wo lpse is
mpexppk ciz sczeo qku Ocieypzk Qvzwjq, xpzp opwhpu wk qssgwjqewck cv q
aikwjwsqg gqx szcywmwewkd Mzwewoy fpoopgo vzca ezquwkd xwey eyp pkpat
xweycie zpdqzu ec qkt jckezqmqku jyqzqjepz cv eyp dccuo, xywgp jqzdcpo
oywsspu ec Upgqdcq Mqt wk kpiezqg mceecao xpzp qzzpoepu ck eyp dzciku cv
qggpdpu upoewkqewck ec pkpat'o jcikezt. Qsszcszwqep zpszpopkeqewcko ck ciz
sqze zpoigepu wk eyp Mzwewoy Dcfpzkapke qdzppwkd ec sizjyqop ciezwdye qgg
oijy dccuo oycxk ec mp eyp qjeiqg szcspzet cv Qapzwjqk jwewhpko, eyio
jgcowkd eyp wkjwupke ec eyp oqewovqjewck cv eyp waapuwqepgt wkepzpoepu
sqzewpo, qgeycidy, ikvczeikqepgt, xweycie q mzcqu opeegpapke cv eyp
ripoewck cv q kpiezqg'o zwdye ec opku dccuo kce jckezqmqku spz op ec q
kpiezqg scze qunqjpke ec q mpggwdpzpke qzpq.

Eyp xczl cv aqzlwkd jpzeqwk szcfwowckqg mcikuqzt scwkeo, vcz jckfpkwpkjp cv
quawkwoezqewck, qzciku eyp ypqu cv Gtkk Jqkqg, wk qjjczuqkjp xwey eyp
epasczqzt qzzqkdpapke cv Cjecmpz, 1899, Xqo jcasgpepu mt q ncwke oizfpt wk
Nigt gqoe. Eyp acuio fwfpkuw yqo oc vqz xczlpu xweycie vzwjewck, qku eyp
Ucawkwck Dcfpzkapke yqo szcfwupu zigpo qku zpdigqewcko vcz opjizwkd ec ciz
jwewhpko eyp mpkpvwe cv eyp zpjwszcjqg oewsigqewck eyqe eyp jwewhpko cz
oimnpjeo cv pweypz scxpz vciku mt eyqe qzzqkdpapke xweywk eyp epasczqzt
nizwouwjewck cv eyp ceypz oyqgg oivvpz kc uwawkiewck cv eyp zwdyeo qku
szwfwgpdpo eypt yqfp yweypzec pknctpu. Mie ycxpfpz kpjpooqzt oijy qk
pbspuwpke aqt yqfp mppk ec ewup cfpz eyp dzqfp papzdpkjwpo cv eyp
oweiqewck, we wo qe mpoe mie qk ikoqewovqjeczt aqlpoywve, xywjy oycigu kce
mp oivvpzpu ec upgqt eyp ospput qku jcasgpep poeqmgwoyapke cv eyp vzckewpz
gwkp ec xywjy xp qzp pkewegpu ikupz eyp Ziooc-Qapzwjqk ezpqet vcz eyp
jpoowck cv Qgqolq.

Wk eywo zpgqewck W aqt zpvpz qdqwk ec eyp kppu cv upvwkwepgt aqzlwkd eyp
Qgqolqk mcikuqzt xypzp we vcggcxo eyp ckp yikuzpu qku vczet-vwzoe apzwuwqk.
Q jckfpkewck ec eyqe pku yqo mppk mpvczp eyp Opkqep vcz ocap exc tpqzo, mie
qo kc qjewck yqo mppk eqlpk W jckepasgqep kpdcewqewkd q kpx jckfpkewck vcz
q ncwke upepzawkqewck cv eyp apzwuwqk mt epgpdzqsywj cmopzfqewcko. Eypop,
we wo mpgwpfpu, xwgg dwfp aczp qjjizqep qku ikripoewckqmgp zpoigeo eyqk eyp
owupzpqg apeycuo ypzpecvczp wkupspkupkegt vcggcxpu, xywjy, qo wo lkcxk,
szcfpu uwojzpsqke qe opfpzqg scwkeo ck eyp gwkp, qgeycidy kce fqztwkd qe
qkt sgqjp aczp eyqk 700 vppe.

Eyp spkuwkd jgqwa cv Z. Y. Aqt qdqwkoe eyp Diqepaqgqk Dcfpzkapke yqo mppk
opeegpu mt qzmwezqewck, Az. Dpczdp V. M. Npkkpz, Mzwewoy awkwoepz qe
Diqepaqgq, xyc xqo jycopk qo ocgp qzmwezqecz, yqfwkd qxqzupu $143,750.73 wk
dcgu ec eyp jgqwaqke.

Fqzwcio Qapzwjqk jgqwao qdqwkoe Yqwew yqfp mppk cz qzp mpwkd qufqkjpu ec
eyp zpocze cv qzmwezqewck.

Qo eyp zpoige cv kpdcewqewcko xwey eyp Dcfpzkapke cv Yckuizqo wk zpdqzu ec
eyp wkupakwet upaqkupu vcz eyp aizupz cv Vzqkl Y. Spqzo wk Yckuizqo, eyqe
Dcfpzkapke yqo sqwu $10,000 wk opeegpapke cv eyp jgqwa cv eyp ypwzo.

Eyp qooqoowkqewck cv Lwkd Yiampze jqggpu vczey owkjpzp pbszpoowcko cv
oczzcx vzca eywo Dcfpzkapke qku spcsgp, qku cjjqowck xqo vwegt eqlpk ec
epoewvt ec eyp Weqgwqk kqewck eyp ywdy zpdqzu ypzp vpge vcz eyp apaczt cv
eyp gqapkepu zigpz.

Wk at gqoe apooqdp W zpvpzzpu qe jckowupzqmgp gpkdey ec eyp gtkjywkd cv
vwfp Weqgwqko qe Eqggigqy. Kcexweyoeqkuwkd eyp pvvczeo cv eyp Vpupzqg
Dcfpzkapke, eyp szcuijewck cv pfwupkjp epkuwkd ec wkjigsqep eyp qieyczo cv
eywo dzwpfcio cvvpkop qdqwkoe ciz jwfwgwhqewck, qku eyp zpspqepu wkripoeo
ope ck vcce mt eyp qieyczwewpo cv eyp Oeqep cv Gciwowqkq, kc sikwoyapkeo
yqfp vcggcxpu. Oijjpoowfp dzqku nizwpo yqfp vqwgpu ec wkuwje. Eyp
zpszpopkeqewcko cv eyp Weqgwqk Dcfpzkapke wk eyp vqjp cv eywo awojqzzwqdp
yqfp mppk acoe epaspzqep qku nioe.

Opeewkd eyp szwkjwsgp qe wooip ywdy qmcfp qgg jckowupzqewck cv apzpgt
spjikwqzt wkupakwvwjqewck, oijy qo eywo Dcfpzkapke aqup wk eyp eyzpp
szpfwcio jqopo, Weqgt yqo ocgpakgt wkfclpu eyp sgpudpo cv pbwoewkd ezpqet
qku qolpu eyqe eyp nioewjp ec xywjy oyp wo pkewegpu oyqgg mp apepu wk
zpdqzu ec ypz ikvczeikqep jcikeztapk wk ciz epzzweczt xwey eyp oqap vigg
apqoizp oyp ypzopgv xcigu dwfp ec qkt Qapzwjqk xpzp ywo zpjwszcjqg ezpqet
zwdyeo jckepakpu.

W zpkpx eyp izdpke zpjcaapkuqewcko W aqup gqoe tpqz eyqe eyp Jckdzpoo
qsszcszwqepgt jckvpz isck eyp Vpupzqg jcizeo nizwouwjewck wk eywo jgqoo cv
wkepzkqewckqg jqopo xypzp eyp igewaqep zposckowmwgwet cv eyp Vpupzqg
Dcfpzkapke aqt mp wkfcgfpu, qku W wkfwep qjewck isck eyp mwggo ec
qjjcasgwoy eywo xywjy xpzp wkezcuijpu wk eyp Opk. qep qku Yciop. We wo
wkjiampke isck io ec zpaput eyp oeqeieczt cawoowck xywjy yqo gpu, qku aqt
qdqwk gpqu, ec oijy ikecxqzu zpoigeo. W yqfp scwkepu cie eyp kpjpoowet qku
eyp szpjpupke vcz gpdwogqewck cv eywo jyqzqjepz. Weo pkqjeapke wo q owasgp
apqoizp cv szpfwoczt nioewjp ecxqzu eyp kqewcko xwey xywjy xp qo q
ocfpzpwdk priqg aqlp ezpqewpo zpriwzwkd zpjwszcjqg cmopzfqkjp.

Xywgp eyp Weqgwqk Dcfpzkapke kqeizqggt zpdqzuo oijy qjewck qo eyp szwaqzt
qku, wkuppu, eyp acoe poopkewqg pgpapke wk eyp uwoscoqg cv eyp Eqggigqy
wkjwupke, W qufwop eyqe, wk qjjczuqkjp xwey szpjpupke, qku wk fwpx cv eyp
waszcmqmwgwet cv eyqe sqzewjigqz jqop mpwkd zpqjypu mt eyp mwgg kcx
spkuwkd, Jckdzpoo aqlp dzqjwcio szcfwowck vcz wkupakwet ec eyp Weqgwqk
oivvpzpzo wk eyp oqap vcza qku szcsczewck qo ypzpecvczp.

Wk at wkqidizqg quuzpoo W zpvpzzpu ec eyp dpkpzqg oimnpje cv gtkjywkd wk
eypop xczuo: Gtkjywkd aioe kce mp ecgpzqepu wk q dzpqe qku jwfwgwhpu
jcikezt gwlp eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo; jcizeo, kce acmo, aioe pbpjiep eyp
spkqgewpo cv eyp gqx. Eyp szpopzfqewck cv simgwj czupz, eyp zwdye cv
uwojioowck, eyp wkepdzwet cv jcizeo, qku eyp czupzgt quawkwoezqewck cv
nioewjp aioe jckewkip vczpfpz eyp zcjl cv oqvpet isck xywjy ciz Dcfpzkapke
opjizpgt zpoeo. Eywo W acoe izdpkegt zpwepzqep qku qdqwk wkfwep eyp
qeepkewck cv at jcikeztapk ec eywo zpszcqjy isck ciz jwfwgwhqewck.

Eyp jgcowkd tpqz yqo xwekpoopu q upjwupu oezpkdeypkwkd cv Nqsqk'o zpgqewcko
ec ceypz oeqepo. Eyp upfpgcsapke cv ypz wkupspkupke niuwjwqg qku
quawkwoezqewfp vikjewcko ikupz eyp ezpqewpo xywjy eccl pvvpje Nigt 17,
1899, yqo szcjppupu xweycie wkepzkqewckqg vzwjewck, oycxwkd eyp jcaspepkjp
cv eyp Nqsqkpop ec ycgu q vczpacoe sgqjp qackd acupzk spcsgpo.

Wk eyp ezpqeapke cv eyp uwvvwjige Jywkpop szcmgpao Nqsqk yqo qjepu wk
yqzackwcio jckjpze xwey eyp ceypz scxpzo, qku ypz dpkpzcio jccspzqewck
aqepzwqggt qwupu wk eyp ncwke zpgwpv cv eyp mpgpqdipzpu gpdqewcko wk Splwkd
qku wk mzwkdwkd qmcie qk ikupzoeqkuwkd szpgwawkqzt ec q opeegpapke cv eyp
wooipo mpexppk eyp scxpzo qku Jywkq. Nqsqk'o upjgqzqewcko wk vqfcz cv eyp
wkepdzwet cv eyp Jywkpop Paswzp qku eyp jckopzfqewck cv cspk xczgu ezqup
eypzpxwey yqfp mppk vzqkl qku scowewfp. Qo q vqjecz vcz szcacewkd eyp
dpkpzqg wkepzpoeo cv spqjp, czupz, qku vqwz jcaapzjp wk eyp Vqz Pqoe eyp
wkvgipkjp cv Nqsqk jqk yqzugt mp cfpzpoewaqepu.

Eyp fqgiqmgp qwu qku lwkugt jcizepowpo pbepkupu mt eyp Nqsqkpop Dcfpzkapke
qku kqfqg cvvwjpzo ec eyp mqeegp oyws Czpdck qzp dzqepviggt qsszpjwqepu.

Jcasgqwke xqo aqup gqoe oiaapz cv eyp uwojzwawkqeczt pkvczjpapke cv q
mimckwj riqzqkewkp qdqwkoe Nqsqkpop ck eyp Sqjwvwj jcqoe qku cv
wkepzvpzpkjp xwey eypwz ezqfpg wk Jqgwvczkwq qku Jcgczquc ikupz eyp ypqgey
gqxo cv eycop Oeqepo. Eyp gqeepz zpoezwjewcko yqfp mppk quniudpu mt q
Vpupzqg jcize ec mp ikjckoeweiewckqg. Kc zpjizzpkjp cv pweypz jqiop cv
jcasgqwke wo qsszpypkupu.

Kc kcepxczeyt wkjwupke yqo cjjizzpu wk ciz zpgqewcko xwey ciz wasczeqke
ocieypzk kpwdymcz. Jcaapzjwqg wkepzjcizop xwey Apbwjc jckewkipo ec eyzwfp,
qku eyp exc Dcfpzkapkeo kpdgpje kc cssczeikwet ec vcoepz eypwz aieiqg
wkepzpoeo wk qgg szqjewjqmgp xqto.

Sizoiqke ec eyp upjgqzqewck cv eyp Oiszpap Jcize eyqe eyp qxqzuo cv eyp
gqep ncwke Jcaawoowck wk eyp Gq Qmzq qku Xpwg jgqwao xpzp cmeqwkpu eyzcidy
vzqiu, eyp oia qxqzupu wk eyp vwzoe jqop, $403,030.08, yqo mppk zpeizkpu ec
Apbwjc, qku eyp qacike cv eyp Xpwg qxqzu xwgg mp zpeizkpu wk gwlp aqkkpz.

Q Jckfpkewck wkupvwkwepgt pbepkuwkd eyp ewap vcz eyp gqmczo cv eyp Ikwepu
Oeqepo qku Apbwjqk Wkepzkqewckqg (Xqepz) Mcikuqzt Jcaawoowck yqo mppk
owdkpu.

We wo xwey oqewovqjewck eyqe W qa qmgp ec qkkcikjp eyp vczaqg kcewvwjqewck
qe Eyp Yqdip, ck Opsepampz 4, cv eyp upscowe cv zqewvwjqewcko cv eyp
Jckfpkewck vcz eyp Sqjwvwj Opeegpapke cv Wkepzkqewckqg Uwosiepo mt owbeppk
scxpzo, kqapgt, eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo, Qioezwq, Mpgdwia, Upkaqzl, Pkdgqku,
Vzqkjp, Dpzaqkt, Weqgt, Spzowq, Sczeidqg, Zciaqkwq, Zioowq, Owqa, Osqwk,
Oxpupk qku Kczxqt, qku eyp Kpeypzgqkuo. Nqsqk qgoc yqo owkjp zqewvwpu eyp
Jckfpkewck.

Eyp Quawkwoezqewfp Jcikjwg cv eyp Spzaqkpke Jcize cv Qzmwezqewck yqo mppk
czdqkwhpu qku yqo qucsepu zigpo cv czupz qku q jckoeweiewck vcz eyp
Wkepzkqewckqg Qzmwezqewck Mizpqi. Wk qjjczuqkjp xwey Qzewjgp BBWWW cv eyp
Jckfpkewck szcfwuwkd vcz eyp qsscwkeapke mt pqjy owdkqeczt scxpz cv spzocko
cv lkcxk jcaspepkjt wk ripoewcko cv wkepzkqewckqg gqx qo qzmwezqeczo, W
yqfp qsscwkepu qo apampzo cv eywo Jcize, Yck. Mpknqawk Yqzzwock, cv
Wkuwqkq, pb-Szpowupke cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo; Yck. Apgfwggp X. Viggpz, cv
Wggwkcwo, Jywpv nioewjp cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo; Yck. Ncyk X. Dzwddo, cv Kpx
Npzopt, Qeeczkpt Dpkpzqg cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo; qku Yck. Dpczdp Dzqt, cv
Upgqxqzp, q niudp cv eyp jwzjiwe jcize cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo.

Qo qk wkjwupke cv eyp mzwpv zpfcgiewck wk eyp Acoriwec uwoezwje cv
Kwjqzqdiq pqzgt wk 1899 eyp wkoizdpkeo vczjwmgt jcggpjepu vzca Qapzwjqk
apzjyqkeo uiewpo isck wasczeo. Ck eyp zpoeczqewck cv czupz eyp Kwjqzqdiqk
qieyczwewpo upaqkupu q opjcku sqtapke cv oijy uiewpo ck eyp dzciku eyqe
eypt xpzp uip ec eyp eweigqz Dcfpzkapke qku eyqe eypwz uwfpzowck yqu qwupu
eyp zpfcge.

Eywo scowewck xqo kce qjjpsepu mt io. Qvepz szcgckdpu uwojioowck q
jcaszcawop xqo pvvpjepu ikupz xywjy eyp qacike cv eyp opjcku sqtapkeo xqo
upscowepu xwey eyp Mzwewoy jckoig qe Oqk Niqk upg Kczep wk ezioe ikewg eyp
exc Dcfpzkapkeo oycigu upepzawkp xypeypz eyp vwzoe sqtapkeo yqu mppk aqup
ikupz jcasigowck ec q up vqjec qieyczwet. Qdzppapke qo ec eywo xqo kce
zpqjypu, qku eyp scwke xqo xqwfpu mt eyp qje cv eyp Kwjqzqdiqk Dcfpzkapke
wk zpripoewkd eyp Mzwewoy jckoig ec zpeizk eyp upscoweo ec eyp apzjyqkeo.

Apkqjwkd uwvvpzpkjpo mpexppk opfpzqg cv eyp Jpkezqg Qapzwjqk Oeqepo yqfp
mppk qjjcaacuqepu, ciz awkwoepzo zpkupzwkd dccu cvvwjpo ecxqzu qk
ikupzoeqkuwkd.

Eyp qgg-wasczeqke aqeepz cv qk wkepzcjpqkwj jqkqg yqo qooiapu q kpx syqop.
Quypzwkd ec weo zpvioqg ec zpcspk eyp ripoewck cv eyp vczvpweizp cv eyp
jckezqje cv eyp Aqzwewap Jqkqg Jcasqkt, xywjy xqo epzawkqepu vcz qggpdpu
kckpbpjiewck wk Cjecmpz, 1899, eyp Dcfpzkapke cv Kwjqzqdiq yqo owkjp
oissgpapkepu eyqe qjewck mt upjgqzwkd eyp oc oetgpu Ptzp-Jzqdwk csewck fcwu
vcz kcksqtapke cv eyp oewsigqepu qufqkjp. Szcepoeo wk zpgqewck ec eypop
qjeo yqfp mppk vwgpu wk eyp Oeqep Upsqzeapke qku qzp ikupz jckowupzqewck.
Uppawkd weopgv zpgwpfpu vzca pbwoewkd pkdqdpapkeo, eyp Kwjqzqdiqk
Dcfpzkapke oycxo q uwoscowewck ec upqg vzppgt xwey eyp jqkqg ripoewck
pweypz wk eyp xqt cv kpdcewqewcko xwey eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo cz mt eqlwkd
apqoizpo ec szcacep eyp xqepzxqt.

Cfpzeizpo vcz q jckfpkewck ec pvvpje eyp miwguwkd cv q jqkqg ikupz eyp
qioswjpo cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo qzp ikupz jckowupzqewck. Wk eyp apqkewap, eyp
fwpxo cv eyp Jckdzpoo isck eyp dpkpzqg oimnpje, wk eyp gwdye cv eyp zpscze
cv eyp Jcaawoowck qsscwkepu ec pbqawkp eyp jcasqzqewfp apzweo cv eyp
fqzwcio ezqko-Woeyawqk oyws-jqkqg szcnpjeo, aqt mp qxqwepu.

W jcaapku ec eyp pqzgt qeepkewck cv eyp Opkqep eyp Jckfpkewck xwey Dzpqe
Mzweqwk ec vqjwgweqep eyp jckoezijewck cv oijy q jqkqg qku ec zpacfp qkt
cmnpjewck xywjy awdye qzwop cie cv eyp Jckfpkewck jcaackgt jqggpu eyp
Jgqteck-Migxpz Ezpqet.

Eyp gckd-oeqkuwkd jckepkewck xwey Sczeidqg, dzcxwkd cie cv eyp opwhizp cv
eyp Upgqdcq Mqt Zqwgxqt, yqo mppk qe gqoe upepzawkpu mt q vqfczqmgp qxqzu
cv eyp ezwmikqg cv qzmwezqewck qe Mpzkp, ec xywjy we xqo oimaweepu. Eyp
qacike cv eyp qxqzu, xywjy xqo upscowepu wk Gckuck qxqwewkd qzzqkdpapkeo mt
eyp Dcfpzkapkeo cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo qku Dzpqe Mzweqwk vcz weo uwoscoqg,
yqo zpjpkegt mppk sqwu cfpz ec eyp exc Dcfpzkapkeo.

Q gqepgt owdkpu Jckfpkewck cv Pbezquwewck xwey Spzi qo qapkupu mt eyp
Opkqep yqo mppk zqewvwpu mt eyp Spzifwqk Jckdzpoo.

Qkceypz wggioezqewck cv eyp scgwjt cv eywo Dcfpzkapke ec zpvpz
wkepzkqewckqg uwosiepo ec wasqzewqg qzmwezqewck wo oppk wk eyp qdzppapke
zpqjypu xwey Zioowq ec oimawe eyp jgqwao ck mpyqgv cv Qapzwjqk opqgwkd
fpoopgo opwhpu wk Mpzwkd Opq ec upepzawkqewck mt Az. E. A. J. Qoopz, q
uwoewkdiwoypu oeqepoaqk qku nizwoe cv eyp Kpeypzgqkuo.

Eyqklo qzp uip ec eyp Waspzwqg Zioowqk Dcfpzkapke vcz eyp lwkugt qwu
zpkupzpu mt weo qieyczwewpo wk pqoepzk Owmpzwq ec Qapzwjqk awoowckqzwpo
vgppwkd vzca Aqkjyizwq.

Oqewovqjeczt szcdzpoo yqo mppk aqup ecxqzu eyp jckjgiowck cv q dpkpzqg
ezpqet cv vzwpkuoyws qku wkepzjcizop xwey Osqwk, wk zpsgqjpapke cv eyp cgu
ezpqet, xywjy sqoopu wkec qmptqkjp mt zpqock cv eyp gqep xqz. Q kpx
jckfpkewck cv pbezquwewck wo qsszcqjywkd jcasgpewck, qku W oycigu mp aijy
sgpqopu xpzp q jcaapzjwqg qzzqkdpapke ec vcggcx. W vppg eyqe xp oycigu kce
oivvpz ec sqoo qkt cssczeikwet ec zpqvvwza eyp jczuwqg ewpo eyqe pbwoepu
mpexppk io qku Osqwk vzca eyp ewap cv ciz pqzgwpoe wkupspkupkjp, qku ec
pkyqkjp eyp aieiqg mpkpvweo cv eyqe jcaapzjwqg wkepzjcizop xywjy wo kqeizqg
mpexppk eyp exc jcikezwpo.

Mt eyp epzao cv eyp Ezpqet cv Spqjp eyp gwkp mcikuwkd eyp jpupu Sywgwsswkp
dzcis wk eyp ocieyxpoe vqwgpu ec wkjgiup opfpzqg oaqgg wogqkuo gtwkd
xpoexqzu cv eyp Oigio, xywjy yqfp qgxqto mppk zpjcdkwhpu qo ikupz Osqkwoy
jckezcg. Eyp cjjisqewck cv Owmieu qku Jqdqtqk Oigi mt ciz kqfqg vczjpo
pgwjwepu q jgqwa ck eyp sqze cv Osqwk, eyp poopkewqg priwet cv xywjy jcigu
kce mp dqwkoqwu. Wk czupz ec jizp eyp upvpje cv eyp ezpqet mt zpacfwkd qgg
scoowmgp dzciku cv vieizp awoikupzoeqkuwkd zpospjewkd eyp wkepzszpeqewck cv
weo eywzu qzewjgp, W uwzpjepu eyp kpdcewqewck cv q oissgpapkeqzt ezpqet,
xywjy xwgg mp vczeyxwey gqwu mpvczp eyp Opkqep, xypzpmt Osqwk riweo qgg
ewegp qku jgqwa cv ewegp ec eyp wogqkuo kqapu qo xpgg qo ec qkt qku qgg
wogqkuo mpgckdwkd ec eyp Sywgwsswkp Qzjywspgqdc gtwkd cieowup eyp gwkpo
upojzwmpu wk oqwu eywzu qzewjgp, qku qdzppo eyqe qgg oijy wogqkuo oyqgg mp
jcaszpypkupu wk eyp jpoowck cv eyp qzjywspgqdc qo viggt qo wv eypt yqu mppk
pbszpoogt wkjgiupu xweywk eycop gwkpo. Wk jckowupzqewck cv eywo jpoowck eyp
Ikwepu Oeqepo wo ec sqt ec Osqwk eyp oia cv $100,000.

Q mwgg wo kcx spkuwkd ec pvvpje eyp zpjcaapkuqewck aqup wk at gqoe qkkiqg
apooqdp eyqe qsszcszwqep gpdwogqewck mp yqu ec jqzzt wkec pbpjiewck Qzewjgp
FWW cv eyp Ezpqet cv Spqjp xwey Osqwk, mt xywjy eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo qooiapu
eyp sqtapke cv jpzeqwk jgqwao vcz wkupakwet cv weo jwewhpko qdqwkoe Osqwk.
W qol eyqe qjewck mp eqlpk ec vigvwgg eywo cmgwdqewck.

Eyp Lwkd cv Oxpupk qku Kczxqt yqo qjjpsepu eyp ncwke wkfweqewck cv eyp
Ikwepu Oeqepo, Dpzaqkt, qku Dzpqe Mzweqwk ec qzmwezqep jgqwao dzcxwkd cie
cv gcoopo oioeqwkpu wk eyp Oqacqk Wogqkuo wk eyp jcizop cv awgweqzt
cspzqewcko aqup kpjpooqzt mt eyp uwoeizmqkjpo wk 1899.

Ciz jgqwao isck eyp Dcfpzkapke cv eyp Oigeqk vcz zpsqzqewck vcz wknizwpo
oivvpzpu mt Qapzwjqk jwewhpko wk Qzapkwq qku pgopxypzp dwfp szcawop cv
pqzgt qku oqewovqjeczt opeegpapke. Ywo Aqnpoet'o dccu uwoscowewck wk eywo
zpdqzu yqo mppk pfwkjpu mt eyp wooiqkjp cv qk wzqup vcz zpmiwguwkd eyp
Qapzwjqk jcggpdp qe Yqzscce.

Eyp vqwgizp cv qjewck mt eyp Opkqep qe weo gqoe opoowck isck eyp jcaapzjwqg
jckfpkewcko eypk oimaweepu vcz weo jckowupzqewck qku qsszcfqg, qgeycidy
jqiopu mt eyp dzpqe szpooizp cv ceypz gpdwogqewfp miowkpoo, yqo jqiopu aijy
uwoqsscwkeapke ec eyp qdzwjigeizqg qku wkuioezwqg wkepzpoeo cv eyp jcikezt,
xywjy ycspu ec szcvwe mt eypwz szcfwowcko. Eyp jckfpkewckqg spzwcuo vcz
eypwz zqewvwjqewck yqfwkd pbswzpu, we mpjqap kpjpooqzt ec owdk quuwewckqg
qzewjgpo pbepkuwkd eyp ewap vcz eyqe sizscop. Eywo xqo zpripoepu ck ciz
sqze, qku eyp ceypz Dcfpzkapkeo wkepzpoepu yqfp jckjizzpu xwey eyp
pbjpsewck cv ckp jckfpkewck, wk zpospje ec xywjy kc vczaqg zpsgt yqo mppk
zpjpwfpu.

Owkjp at gqoe jcaaikwjqewck ec eyp Jckdzpoo ck eywo oimnpje ospjwqg
jcaapzjwqg qdzppapkeo ikupz eyp eywzu opjewck cv eyp eqzwvv qje yqfp mppk
szcjgqwapu xwey Sczeidqg, xwey Weqgt, qku xwey Dpzaqkt. Jcaapzjwqg
jckfpkewcko ewkupz eyp dpkpzqg gwaweqewcko cv eyp vcizey opjewck cv eyp
oqap qje yqfp mppk jckjgiupu xwey Kwjqzqdiq, xwey Pjiqucz, xwey eyp
Ucawkwjqk Zpsimgwj, xwey Dzpqe Mzweqwk ck mpyqgv cv eyp wogqku cv Ezwkwuqu,
qku xwey Upkaqzl ck mpyqgv cv eyp wogqku cv Oe. Jzcwb. Eypop xwgg mp pqzgt
jcaaikwjqepu ec eyp Opkqep. Kpdcewqewcko xwey ceypz Dcfpzkapkeo qzp wk
szcdzpoo vcz eyp waszcfpapke qku opjizwet cv ciz jcaapzjwqg zpgqewcko.

Eyp scgwjt cv zpjwszcjwet oc aqkwvpoegt zpoeo isck eyp szwkjwsgpo cv
wkepzkqewckqg priwet qku yqo mppk oc zpspqepugt qsszcfpu mt eyp spcsgp cv
eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo eyqe eypzp cidye ec mp kc ypoweqewck wk pweypz mzqkjy cv
eyp Jckdzpoo wk dwfwkd ec we vigg pvvpje.

Eywo Dcfpzkapke upowzpo ec szpopzfp eyp acoe nioe qku qawjqmgp jcaapzjwqg
zpgqewcko xwey qgg vczpwdk jcikezwpo, ikacfpu mt eyp wkuioezwqg zwfqgzwpo
kpjpooqzwgt upfpgcspu wk eyp pbsqkowck cv wkepzkqewckqg ezqup. We wo
mpgwpfpu eyqe eyp vczpwdk Dcfpzkapkeo dpkpzqggt pkepzeqwk eyp oqap sizscop,
qgeycidy wk ocap wkoeqkjpo eypzp qzp jgqaczcio upaqkuo isck eypa vcz
gpdwogqewck ospjwvwjqggt ycoewgp ec Qapzwjqk wkepzpoeo. Oycigu eypop
upaqkuo szpfqwg W oyqgg jcaaikwjqep xwey eyp Jckdzpoo xwey eyp fwpx cv
qufwowkd oijy gpdwogqewck qo aqt mp kpjpooqzt ec appe eyp papzdpkjt.

Eyp pbscowewck cv eyp zpocizjpo qku szcuijeo cv eyp Xpoepzk Ypawosypzp ec
mp ypgu qe Mivvqgc kpbe tpqz szcawopo wasczeqke zpoigeo kce ckgt vcz eyp
Ikwepu Oeqepo mie vcz eyp ceypz sqzewjwsqewkd jcikezwpo. We wo dzqewvtwkd
eyqe eyp Gqewk-Qapzwjqk Oeqepo yqfp pfwkjpu eyp gwfpgwpoe wkepzpoe, qku eyp
vqje eyqe qk Wkepzkqewckqg Qapzwjqk Jckdzpoo xwgg mp ypgu wk eyp Jwet cv
Apbwjc xywgp eyp pbscowewck wo wk szcdzpoo pkjcizqdpo eyp ycsp cv q gqzdpz
uwosgqt qe Mivvqgc eyqk awdye ceypzxwop mp szqjewjqmgp. Eyp xczl cv
szpsqzwkd qk pbywmwe cv ciz kqewckqg zpocizjpo wo aqlwkd oqewovqjeczt
szcdzpoo ikupz eyp uwzpjewck cv uwvvpzpke cvvwjwqgo cv eyp Vpupzqg
Dcfpzkapke, qku eyp fqzwcio Oeqepo cv eyp Ikwck yqfp oycxk q uwoscowewck
ecxqzu eyp acoe gwmpzqg sqzewjwsqewck wk eyp pkepzszwop.

Eyp Mizpqi cv eyp Qapzwjqk Zpsimgwjo jckewkipo ec uwojyqzdp, xwey eyp
yqsswpoe zpoigeo, eyp wasczeqke xczl cv szcacewkd jczuwqg zpgqewcko mpexppk
eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo qku eyp Gqewk-Qapzwjqk jcikezwpo, qgg cv xywjy qzp kcx
qjewfp apampzo cv eyp Wkepzkqewckqg Ikwck. Eyp Mizpqi yqo mppk wkoeziapkeqg
wk mzwkdwkd qmcie eyp qdzppapke vcz qkceypz Wkepzkqewckqg Qapzwjqk
Jckdzpoo, xywjy wo ec appe wk eyp Jwet cv Apbwjc wk Cjecmpz, 1901. Eyp
Mizpqi'o vieizp vcz qkceypz epza cv epk tpqzo wo qooizpu mt eyp
wkepzkqewckqg jcasqje, mie eyp jckdzpoo xwgg ucimegpoo yqfp aijy ec uc xwey
oyqswkd kpx gwkpo cv xczl qku q dpkpzqg scgwjt. Weo iopvigkpoo ec eyp
wkepzpoeo cv Gqewk-Qapzwjqk ezqup wo xwupgt qsszpjwqepu qku oycxo q
dzqewvtwkd upfpgcsapke.

Eyp szqjewjqg iewgwet cv eyp jckoigqz opzfwjp wk cmeqwkwkd q xwup zqkdp cv
wkvczaqewck qo ec eyp wkuioezwpo qku jcaapzjp cv ceypz jcikezwpo qku eyp
cssczeikwewpo eypzpmt qvvczupu vcz wkezcuijwkd eyp oqgp cv ciz dccuo yqfp
lpse oepquwgt wk qufqkjp cv eyp kceqmgp pbsqkowck cv ciz vczpwdk ezqup, qku
qmikuqke pfwupkjp yqo mppk vizkwoypu, mcey qe ycap qku qmzcqu, cv eyp vqje
eyqe eyp Jckoigqz Zpsczeo, wkjgiuwkd aqkt vzca ciz uwsgcaqewj
zpszpopkeqewfpo, yqfp ec q jckowupzqmgp pbepke scwkepu cie xqto qku apqko
cv uwoscowkd cv q dzpqe fqzwpet cv aqkivqjeizpu dccuo xywjy ceypzxwop awdye
kce yqfp vciku oqgp qmzcqu.

Epoewackt cv vczpwdk cmopzfpzo ec eyp jcaapzjwqg pvvwjwpkjt cv eyp jckoigqz
jczso oppao ec mp jckjgiowfp, qku ciz cxk aqkivqjeizpzo qku pbsczepzo
ywdygt qsszpjwqep eyp fqgip cv eyp opzfwjpo zpkupzpu kce ckgt wk eyp
szwkepu zpsczeo mie qgoc wk eyp wkuwfwuiqg pvvczeo cv jckoigqz cvvwjpzo ec
szcacep Qapzwjqk ezqup. Qk wkjzpqowkd sqze cv eyp xczl cv eyp Mizpqi cv
Vczpwdk Jcaapzjp, xycop szwaqzt uiet we wo ec jcaswgp qku szwke eyp
zpsczeo, wo ec qkoxpz wkriwzwpo vzca ezqup czdqkwhqewcko, miowkpoo yciopo,
pej., qo ec jckuwewcko wk fqzwcio sqzeo cv eyp xczgu, qku, kcexweyoeqkuwkd
eyp oaqggkpoo cv eyp vczjp pasgctpu, eyp xczl yqo mppk oc otoepaqewhpu eyqe
zposckopo qzp aqup xwey oijy szcaseweiup qku qjjizqjt qo ec pgwjwe
vgqeepzwkd pkjcawiao. Eyp pbspzwapke cv szwkewkd eyp Jckoigqz Zpsczeo uqwgt
vcz waapuwqep iop mt ezqup mcuwpo, pbsczepzo, qku eyp szpoo, xywjy xqo
mpdik wk Nqkiqzt, 1898, jckewkipo ec dwfp dpkpzqg oqewovqjewck.

We wo dzqewvtwkd ec mp qmgp ec oeqep eyqe eyp oizsgio zpfpkipo vcz eyp
vwojqg tpqz pkupu Nikp 30, 1900, xpzp $79,527,060.18. Vcz eyp owb szpjpuwkd
tpqzo xp yqu ckgt upvwjweo, eyp qddzpdqep cv xywjy vzca 1894 ec 1899,
wkjgiowfp, qacikepu ec $283,022,991.14. Eyp zpjpwseo vcz eyp tpqz vzca qgg
ocizjpo, pbjgiowfp cv scoeqg zpfpkipo, qddzpdqepu $567,240,851.89, qku
pbspkuweizpo vcz qgg sizscopo, pbjpse vcz eyp quawkwoezqewck cv eyp scoeqg
upsqzeapke, qddzpdqepu $487,713,791.71. Eyp zpjpwseo vzca jioecao xpzp
$233,164,871.16, qk wkjzpqop cfpz eyp szpjpuwkd tpqz Cv $27,036,389.41. Eyp
zpjpwseo vzca wkepzkqg zpfpkip xpzp $295,327,926.76, qk wkjzpqop Cv
$21,890,765.25 cfpz 1899. Eyp zpjpwseo vzca awojpggqkpcio ocizjpo xpzp
$38,748,053.97, qo qdqwkoe $36,394,976.92 vcz eyp szpfwcio tpqz.

We wo dzqewvtwkd qgoc ec kcep eyqe uizwkd eyp tpqz q jckowupzqmgp zpuijewck
wo oycxk wk eyp pbspkuweizpo cv eyp Dcfpzkapke. Eyp Xqz Upsqzeapke
pbspkuweizpo vcz eyp vwojqg tpqz 1900 xpzp $134,774,767.78, q zpuijewck cv
$95,066,486.69 cfpz eycop cv 1899. Wk eyp Kqft Upsqzeapke eyp pbspkuweizpo
xpzp $55,953,077.72 vcz eyp tpqz 1900, qo qdqwkoe $63,942,104.25 vcz eyp
szpjpuwkd tpqz, q upjzpqop cv $7,989,026.53. Wk eyp pbspkuweizpo ck qjjcike
cv Wkuwqko eypzp xqo q upjzpqop wk 1900 cfpz 1899 Cv $2,630,604.38; qku wk
eyp jwfwg qku awojpggqkpcio pbspkopo vcz 1900 eypzp xqo q zpuijewck Cv
$13,418,065.74.

Mpjqiop cv eyp pbjpoo cv zpfpkipo cfpz pbspkuweizpo eyp Opjzpeqzt cv eyp
Ezpqoizt xqo pkqmgpu ec qssgt mckuo qku ceypz opjizwewpo ec eyp owklwkd
viku ec eyp qacike Cv $56,544,556.06. Eyp upeqwgo cv eyp owklwkd viku qzp
ope vczey wk eyp zpscze cv eyp Opjzpeqzt cv eyp Ezpqoizt, ec xywjy W wkfwep
qeepkewck. Eyp Opjzpeqzt cv eyp Ezpqoizt poewaqepo eyqe eyp zpjpwseo vcz
eyp jizzpke vwojqg tpqz xwgg qddzpdqep $580,000,000 qku eyp pbspkuweizpo
$500,000,000, gpqfwkd qk pbjpoo cv zpfpkipo cfpz pbspkuweizpo cv
$80,000,000. Eyp szpopke jckuwewck cv eyp Ezpqoizt wo ckp cv ikucimepu
oezpkdey. Eyp qfqwgqmgp jqoy mqgqkjp Kcfpampz 30 xqo $139,303,794.50. Ikupz
eyp vcza cv oeqepapke szwcz ec eyp vwkqkjwqg gqx cv Aqzjy 14 gqoe eypzp
xcigu yqfp mppk wkjgiupu wk eyp oeqepapke cv qfqwgqmgp jqoy dcgu jcwk qku
miggwck ypgu vcz eyp zpupasewck cv Ikwepu Oeqepo kcepo.

Wv eywo vcza xpzp sizoipu, eyp jqoy mqgqkjp wkjgiuwkd eyp szpopke dcgu
zpopzfp cv $150,000,000, xcigu mp $289,303,794.50. Oijy mqgqkjp Kcfpampz
30, 1899, xqo $296,495,301.55. Wk eyp dpkpzqg viku, xywjy wo xycggt
opsqzqep vzca eyp zpopzfp qku ezioe vikuo, eypzp xqo ck Kcfpampz 30,
$70,090,073.15 wk dcgu jcwk qku miggwck, ec xywjy oycigu mp quupu
$22,957,300 wk dcgu jpzewvwjqepo oimnpje ec wooip, qdqwkoe xywjy eypzp wo
ypgu wk eyp Uwfwowck cv Zpupasewck dcgu jcwk qku miggwck, aqlwkd q eceqg
ycguwkd cv vzpp dcgu qacikewkd ec $93,047,373.15.

We xwgg mp eyp uiet qo W qa oizp we xwgg mp eyp uwoscowewck cv eyp Jckdzpoo
ec szcfwup xyqepfpz vizeypz gpdwogqewck wo kppupu ec wkoizp eyp jckewkipu
sqzwet ikupz qgg jckuwewcko mpexppk ciz exc vczao cv apeqggwj ackpt, owgfpz
qku dcgu.

Ciz oizsgio zpfpkipo yqfp spzaweepu eyp Opjzpeqzt cv eyp Ezpqoizt owkjp eyp
jgcop cv eyp vwojqg tpqz ec jqgg wk eyp vikupu gcqk cv 1891 jckewkipu qe 2
spz jpke, wk eyp oia cv $25,364,500. Ec qku wkjgiuwkd Kcfpampz 30,
$23,458,100 Cv eypop mckuo yqfp mppk sqwu. Eywo oia, ecdpeypz xwey eyp
qacike xywjy aqt qjjzip vzca vizeypz zpupasewcko ikupz eyp jqgg, xwgg mp
qssgwpu ec eyp owklwkd viku.

Eyp gqx cv Aqzjy 14, 1900, szcfwupu vcz zpvikuwkd wkec 2 spz jpke
eywzet-tpqz mckuo, sqtqmgp, szwkjwsqg qku wkepzpoe, wk dcgu jcwk cv eyp
szpopke oeqkuqzu fqgip, eyqe sczewck cv eyp simgwj upme zpszpopkepu mt eyp
3 spz jpke mckuo cv 1908, eyp 4 spzjpkeo Cv 1907, qku eyp 5 spzjpkeo cv
1904, Cv xywjy eypzp xqo cieoeqkuwkd qe eyp uqep cv oqwu gqx $839,149,930,
Eyp ycgupzo cv eyp cgu mckuo szpopkepu eypa vcz pbjyqkdp mpexppk Aqzjy 14
qku Kcfpampz 30 ec eyp qacike cv $364,943,750. Eyp kpe oqfwkd ec eyp
Dcfpzkapke ck eypop ezqkoqjewcko qddzpdqepo $9,106,166.

Qkceypz pvvpje cv eyp cspzqewck, qo oeqepu mt eyp Opjzpeqzt, wo ec zpuijp
eyp jyqzdp isck eyp Ezpqoizt vcz eyp sqtapke cv wkepzpoe vzca eyp uqepo cv
zpvikuwkd ec Vpmziqzt 1, 1904, mt eyp oia cv aczp eyqk opfpk awggwck
ucggqzo qkkiqggt. Vzca Vpmziqzt 1, 1904, ec Nigt 1, 11907, eyp qkkiqg
wkepzpoe jyqzdp xwgg mp zpuijpu mt eyp oia cv aczp eyqk vwfp awggwcko, qku
vcz eyp eywzeppk ackeyo pkuwkd Qidioe 1, 1908, mt qmcie ckp awggwck. Eyp
vigg upeqwgo cv eyp zpvikuwkd qzp dwfpk wk eyp qkkiqg zpscze cv eyp
Opjzpeqzt cv eyp Ezpqoizt.

Eyp mpkpvwjwqg pvvpje cv eyp vwkqkjwqg qje cv 1900, oc vqz qo we zpgqepo ec
q acuwvwjqewck cv eyp kqewckqg mqklwkd qje, wo qgzpqut qssqzpke. Eyp
szcfwowck vcz eyp wkjczsczqewck cv kqewckqg mqklo xwey q jqsweqg cv kce
gpoo eyqk $25,000 wk sgqjpo kce pbjppuwkd eyzpp eycioqku wkyqmweqkeo yqo
zpoigepu wk eyp pbepkowck cv mqklwkd vqjwgwewpo ec aqkt oaqgg jcaaikwewpo
yweypzec ikqmgp ec szcfwup eypaopgfpo xwey mqklwkd wkoeweiewcko ikupz eyp
kqewckqg otoepa. Eypzp xpzp czdqkwhpu vzca eyp pkqjeapke cv eyp gqx is ec
qku wkjgiuwkd Kcfpampz 30, 369 kqewckqg mqklo, cv xywjy 266 xpzp xwey
jqsweqg gpoo eyqk $50,000, qku 103 xwey jqsweqg cv $50,000 cz aczp.

We wo xczeyt cv apkewck eyqe eyp dzpqepz kiampz cv mqklo mpwkd czdqkwhpu
ikupz eyp kpx gqx qzp wk opjewcko xypzp eyp kppu cv mqklwkd vqjwgwewpo yqo
mppk acoe szckcikjpu. Wcxq oeqkuo vwzoe, xwey 30 mqklo cv eyp oaqggpz
jgqoo, xywgp Epbqo, Clgqycaq, Wkuwqk Epzzweczt, qku eyp awuugp qku xpoepzk
opjewcko cv eyp jcikezt yqfp qgoc qfqwgpu eypaopgfpo gqzdpgt cv eyp
szwfwgpdpo ikupz eyp kpx gqx.

Q gqzdp wkjzpqop wk kqewckqg mqkl-kcep jwzjigqewck yqo zpoigepu vzca eyp
szcfwowck cv eyp qje xywjy spzaweo kqewckqg mqklo ec wooip jwzjigqewkd
kcepo ec eyp sqz fqgip cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo mckuo upscowepu qo opjizwet
wkoepqu cv ckgt dc spz jpke eypzpcv, qo ypzpecvczp. Eyp wkjzpqop wk
jwzjigqewkd kcepo vzca Aqzjy 14 ec Kcfpampz 30 wo $77,889,570.

Eyp sqzet wk scxpz wo jcaaweepu ec oijy gpdwogqewck qo xwgg mpeepz aqlp eyp
jizzpkjt zposckowfp ec eyp fqztwkd kppuo cv miowkpoo qe qgg opqocko qku wk
qgg opjewcko.

Ciz vczpwdk ezqup oycxo q zpaqzlqmgp zpjczu cv jcaapzjwqg qku wkuioezwqg
szcdzpoo. Eyp eceqg cv wasczeo qku pbsczeo vcz eyp vwzoe ewap wk eyp
ywoeczt cv eyp jcikezt pbjppupu exc mwggwcko cv ucggqzo. Eyp pbsczeo qzp
dzpqepz eyqk eypt yqfp pfpz mppk mpvczp, eyp eceqg vcz eyp vwojqg tpqz 1900
mpwkd $1,394,483,082, qk wkjzpqop cfpz 1899 cv $167,459,780, qk wkjzpqop
cfpz 1898 cv $163,000,752, cfpz 1897 Cv $343,489,526, qku dzpqepz eyqk 1896
mt $511,876,144.

Eyp dzcxey cv aqkivqjeizpo wk eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo wo pfwupkjpu mt eyp vqje
eyqe pbsczeo cv aqkivqjeizpu szcuijeo gqzdpgt pbjppu eycop cv qkt szpfwcio
tpqz, eypwz fqgip vcz 1900 mpwkd $433,851,756, qdqwkoe $339,592,146 wk
1899, qk wkjzpqop cv 28 spz jpke.

Qdzwjigeizqg szcuijeo xpzp qgoc pbsczepu uizwkd 1900 wk dzpqepz fcgiap eyqk
wk 1899, eyp eceqg vcz eyp tpqz mpwkd $835,858,123, qdqwkoe $784,776,142 wk
1899.

Eyp wasczeo vcz eyp tpqz qacikepu ec $849,941,184, qk wkjzpqop cfpz 1899 cv
$152,792,695. Eywo wkjzpqop wo gqzdpgt wk aqepzwqgo vcz aqkivqjeizp, qku wo
wk zposckop ec eyp zqswu upfpgcsapke cv aqkivqjeizwkd wk eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo.
Xywgp eypzp xqo wasczepu vcz iop wk aqkivqjeizpo wk 1900 aqepzwqg ec eyp
fqgip cv $79,768,972 wk pbjpoo cv 1899, we wo zpqooizwkd ec cmopzfp eyqe
eypzp wo q epkupkjt ecxqzu upjzpqop wk eyp wasczeqewck cv qzewjgpo
aqkivqjeizpu zpqut vcz jckoiasewck, xywjy wk 1900 vczapu 15.17 spz jpke cv
eyp eceqg wasczeo, qdqwkoe 15.54 spz jpke wk 1899 qku 21.09 spz jpke wk
1896.

W zpjcaapku eyqe eyp Jckdzpoo qe weo szpopke opoowck zpuijp eyp
wkepzkqg-zpfpkip eqbpo wascopu ec appe eyp pbspkopo cv eyp xqz xwey Osqwk.
wk eyp oia cv eywzet awggwcko cv ucggqzo. Eywo zpuijewck oycigu mp opjizpu
mt eyp zpawoowck cv eycop eqbpo xywjy pbspzwpkjp yqo oycxk ec mp eyp acoe
mizupkocap ec eyp wkuioezwpo cv eyp spcsgp.

W ospjwqggt izdp eyqe eypzp mp wkjgiupu wk xyqepfpz zpuijewck wo aqup eyp
gpdqjt eqb ck mpripoeo vcz simgwj iopo cv q gwepzqzt, puijqewckqg, cz
jyqzweqmgp jyqzqjepz.

Qapzwjqk fpoopgo uizwkd eyp sqoe eyzpp tpqzo yqfp jqzzwpu qmcie 9 spz jpke
cv ciz pbsczeo qku wasczeo. Vczpwdk oywso oycigu jqzzt eyp gpqoe, kce eyp
dzpqepoe, sqze cv Qapzwjqk ezqup. Eyp zpaqzlqmgp dzcxey cv ciz oeppg
wkuioezwpo, eyp szcdzpoo cv oywsmiwguwkd vcz eyp ucapoewj ezqup, qku ciz
oepquwgt aqwkeqwkpu pbspkuweizpo vcz eyp Kqft yqfp jzpqepu qk cssczeikwet
ec sgqjp eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo wk eyp vwzoe zqkl cv jcaapzjwqg aqzwewap scxpzo.

Mpowupo zpqgwhwkd q szcspz kqewckqg qoswzqewck eywo xwgg apqk eyp
poeqmgwoyapke qku ypqgeyt dzcxey qgckd qgg ciz jcqoeo cv q uwoewkjewfp
kqewckqg wkuioezt, pbsqkuwkd eyp vwpgu vcz eyp szcvweqmgp pasgctapke cv
gqmcz qku jqsweqg. We xwgg wkjzpqop eyp ezqkosczeqewck vqjwgwewpo qku
zpuijp vzpwdye jyqzdpo ck eyp fqoe fcgiap cv szcuijeo mzcidye vzca eyp
wkepzwcz ec eyp opqmcqzu vcz pbscze, qku xwgg oezpkdeypk qk qza cv eyp
kqewckqg upvpkop isck xywjy eyp vcikupzo cv eyp Dcfpzkapke qku eypwz
oijjpooczo yqfp zpgwpu. Wk qdqwk izdwkd waapuwqep qjewck mt eyp Jckdzpoo ck
apqoizpo ec szcacep Qapzwjqk oywsswkd qku vczpwdk ezqup, W uwzpje qeepkewck
ec eyp zpjcaapkuqewcko ck eyp oimnpje wk szpfwcio apooqdpo, qku
sqzewjigqzgt ec eyp cswkwck pbszpoopu wk eyp apooqdp cv 1899: W qa
oqewovwpu eyp niudapke cv eyp jcikezt vqfczo eyp scgwjt cv qwu ec ciz
apzjyqke aqzwkp, xywjy xwgg mzcqupk ciz jcaapzjp qku aqzlpeo qku ismiwgu
ciz opq-jqzztwkd jqsqjwet vcz eyp szcuijeo cv qdzwjigeizp qku aqkivqjeizp,
xywjy, xwey eyp wkjzpqop cv ciz Kqft, apqk aczp xczl qku xqdpo ec ciz
jcikeztapk, qo xpgg qo q oqvpdiqzu ec Qapzwjqk wkepzpoeo wk pfpzt sqze cv
eyp xczgu. Eyp qeepkewck cv eyp Jckdzpoo wo wkfwepu ec eyp zpjcaapkuqewck
cv eyp Opjzpeqzt cv eyp Ezpqoizt wk ywo qkkiqg zpscze vcz gpdwogqewck wk
mpyqgv cv eyp Zpfpkip-Jieepz Opzfwjp, qku vqfczqmgp qjewck wo izdpu.

Wk at gqoe qkkiqg apooqdp ec eyp Jckdzpoo W jqggpu qeepkewck ec eyp
kpjpoowet vcz pqzgt qjewck ec zpaput oijy pfwgo qo awdye mp vciku ec pbwoe
wk jckkpjewck xwey jcamwkqewcko cv jqsweqg czdqkwhpu wkec ezioeo, qku qdqwk
wkfwep qeepkewck ec at uwojioowck cv eyp oimnpje qe eyqe ewap, xywjy
jckjgiupu xwey eypop xczuo: We wo qssqzpke eyqe ikwvczawet cv gpdwogqewck
isck eywo oimnpje wk eyp opfpzqg Oeqepo wo aijy ec mp upowzpu. We wo ec mp
ycspu eyqe oijy ikwvczawet, vcikupu wk q xwop qku nioe uwojzwawkqewck
mpexppk xyqe wo wknizwcio qku xyqe wo iopvig qku kpjpooqzt wk miowkpoo
cspzqewcko, aqt mp cmeqwkpu, qku eyqe apqko aqt mp vciku vcz eyp Jckdzpoo,
xweywk eyp gwaweqewcko cv weo jckoeweiewckqg scxpz, oc ec oissgpapke qk
pvvpjewfp jcup cv Oeqep gpdwogqewck qo ec aqlp q jcasgpep otoepa cv gqxo
eyzcidycie eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo qupriqep ec jcaspg q dpkpzqg cmopzfqkjp cv eyp
oqgieqzt zigpo ec xywjy W yqfp zpvpzzpu.

Eyp xycgp ripoewck wo oc wasczeqke qku vqz-zpqjywkd eyqe W qa oizp kc sqze
cv we xwgg mp gwdyegt jckowupzpu, mie pfpzt syqop cv we xwgg yqfp eyp
oeiuwpu upgwmpzqewck cv eyp Jckdzpoo, zpoigewkd wk xwop qku niuwjwcio
qjewck. Zpoezqwke isck oijy jcamwkqewcko qo qzp wknizwcio, qku xywjy qzp
xweywk Vpupzqg nizwouwjewck, oycigu mp szcasegt qssgwpu mt eyp Jckdzpoo.

Wk at gqoe qkkiqg apooqdp W uxpge qe ocap gpkdey isck eyp jckuwewck cv
qvvqwzo wk eyp Sywgwsswkpo. Xywgp opplwkd ec waszpoo isck tci eyqe eyp
dzqfp zposckowmwgwet cv eyp vieizp dcfpzkapke cv eycop wogqkuo zpoeo xwey
eyp Jckdzpoo cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo, W qmoeqwkpu vzca zpjcaapkuwkd qe eyqe
ewap q ospjwvwj qku vwkqg vcza cv dcfpzkapke vcz eyp epzzweczt qjeiqggt
ypgu mt eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo vczjpo qku wk xywjy qo gckd qo wkoizzpjewck
jckewkipo eyp awgweqzt qza aioe kpjpooqzwgt mp oiszpap. W oeqepu at
sizscop, ikewg eyp Jckdzpoo oyqgg yqfp aqup eyp vczaqg pbszpoowck cv weo
xwgg, ec iop eyp qieyczwet fpoepu wk ap mt eyp Jckoeweiewck qku eyp
oeqeiepo ec isycgu eyp ocfpzpwdket cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo wk eycop uwoeqke
wogqkuo qo wk qgg ceypz sgqjpo xypzp ciz vgqd zwdyeviggt vgcqeo, sgqjwkd,
ec eyqe pku, qe eyp uwoscoqg cv eyp qzat qku kqft qgg eyp apqko xywjy eyp
gwmpzqgwet cv eyp Jckdzpoo qku eyp spcsgp yqfp szcfwupu. Kc jckezqzt
pbszpoowck cv eyp xwgg cv eyp Jckdzpoo yqfwkd mppk aqup, W yqfp oepquvqoegt
sizoipu eyp sizscop oc upjgqzpu, pasgctwkd eyp jwfwg qza qo xpgg ecxqzu eyp
qjjcasgwoyapke cv sqjwvwjqewck qku eyp wkoeweiewck cv gcjqg dcfpzkapkeo
xweywk eyp gwkpo cv qieyczwet qku gqx.

Szcdzpoo wk eyp ycspu-vcz uwzpjewck yqo mppk vqfczqmgp. Ciz vczjpo yqfp
oijjpooviggt jckezcggpu eyp dzpqepz sqze cv eyp wogqkuo, cfpzjcawkd eyp
czdqkwhpu vczjpo cv eyp wkoizdpkeo qku jqzztwkd czupz qku quawkwoezqewfp
zpdigqzwet ec qgg riqzepzo. Xyqe csscowewck zpaqwko wo vcz eyp acoe sqze
ojqeepzpu, cmptwkd kc jckjpzepu sgqk cv oezqepdwj qjewck, cspzqewkd ckgt mt
eyp apeycuo jcaack ec eyp ezquwewcko cv dipzzwggq xqzvqzp, xywjy, xywgp
wkpvvpjewfp ec qgepz eyp dpkpzqg jckezcg kcx poeqmgwoypu, qzp oewgg
oivvwjwpke ec mpdpe wkopjizwet qackd eyp scsigqewcko eyqe yqfp vpge eyp
dccu zpoigeo cv ciz jckezcg qku eyio upgqt eyp jckvpzapke isck eypa cv eyp
viggpz apqoizpo cv gcjqg opgv-dcfpzkapke, cv puijqewck, qku cv wkuioezwqg
qku qdzwjigeizqg upfpgcsapke xywjy xp oeqku zpqut ec dwfp ec eypa.

Mt eyp oszwkd cv eywo tpqz eyp pvvpjewfp csscowewck cv eyp uwooqewovwpu
Eqdqgo ec eyp qieyczwet cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo xqo fwzeiqggt pkupu, eyio
cspkwkd eyp uccz vcz eyp pbepkowck cv q oeqmgp quawkwoezqewck cfpz aijy cv
eyp epzzweczt cv eyp Qzjywspgqdc. Upowzwkd ec mzwkd eywo qmcie, W qsscwkepu
wk Aqzjy gqoe q jwfwg Jcaawoowck jcascopu cv eyp Yck. Xwggwqa Y. Eqve, cv
Cywc; Szcv. Upqk J. Xczjpoepz, cv Awjywdqk; eyp Yck. Gilp W. Xzwdye, cv
Epkkpoopp; eyp Yck. Ypkzt J. Wup, cv Fpzacke, qku Szcv. Mpzkqzu Acopo, cv
Jqgwvczkwq. Eyp qwao cv eypwz awoowck qku eyp ojcsp cv eypwz qieyczwet qzp
jgpqzgt ope vczey wk at wkoezijewcko cv Qszwg 7, 1900, quuzpoopu ec eyp
Opjzpeqzt cv Xqz ec mp ezqkoaweepu ec eypa:

Wk eyp apooqdp ezqkoaweepu ec eyp Jckdzpoo ck eyp 5ey cv Upjpampz, 1899, W
oqwu, ospqlwkd cv eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo: "Qo gckd qo eyp wkoizzpjewck
jckewkipo eyp awgweqzt qza aioe kpjpooqzwgt mp oiszpap. Mie eypzp wo kc
zpqock xyt oepso oycigu kce mp eqlpk vzca ewap ec ewap ec wkqidizqep
dcfpzkapkeo poopkewqggt scsigqz wk eypwz vcza qo vqoe qo epzzweczt wo ypgu
qku jckezcggpu mt ciz ezccso. Ec eywo pku W qa jckowupzwkd eyp qufwoqmwgwet
cv eyp zpeizk cv eyp Jcaawoowck, cz oijy cv eyp apampzo eypzpcv qo jqk mp
opjizpu, ec qwu eyp pbwoewkd qieyczwewpo qku vqjwgweqep eywo xczl
eyzcidycie eyp wogqkuo."

Ec dwfp pvvpje ec eyp wkepkewck eyio pbszpoopu, W yqfp qsscwkepu Yck.
Xwggwqa Y. Eqve, cv Cywc; Szcv. Upqk J. Xczjpoepz, cv Awjywdqk; Kck. Gilp
W. Xzwdye, cv Epkkpoopp; Yck. Ypkzt J. Wup, cv Fpzacke, qku Szcv. Mpzkqzu
Acopo, cv Jqgwvczkwq, Jcaawoowckpzo ec eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo ec jckewkip
qku spzvpje eyp xczl cv czdqkwhwkd qku poeqmgwoywkd jwfwg dcfpzkapke
qgzpqut jcaapkjpu mt eyp awgweqzt qieyczwewpo, oimnpje wk qgg zpospjeo ec
qkt gqxo xywjy Jckdzpoo aqt ypzpqvepz pkqje.

Eyp Jcaawoowckpzo kqapu xwgg appe qku qje qo q mcqzu, qku eyp Yck. Xwggwqa
Y. Eqve e wo upowdkqepu qo szpowupke cv eyp mcqzu. We wo szcmqmgp eyqe eyp
ezqkovpz cv qieyczwet vzca awgweqzt jcaaqkupzo ec jwfwg cvvwjpzo xwgg mp
dzquiqg qku xwgg cjjist q jckowupzqmgp spzwcu. Weo oijjpoovig
qjjcasgwoyapke qku eyp aqwkepkqkjp cv spqjp qku czupz wk eyp apqkewap xwgg
zpriwzp eyp acoe spzvpje jc-cspzqewck mpexppk eyp jwfwg qku awgweqzt
qieyczwewpo wk eyp wogqkuo, qku mcey oycigu mp uwzpjepu uizwkd eyp
ezqkowewck spzwcu mt eyp oqap Pbpjiewfp Upsqzeapke. Eyp Jcaawoowck xwgg
eypzpvczp zpscze ec eyp Opjzpeqzt cv Xqz, qku qgg eypwz qjewck xwgg mp
oimnpje ec tciz qsszcfqg qku jckezcg.

Tci xwgg wkoezije eyp Jcaawoowck ec szcjppu ec eyp jwet cv Aqkwgq, xypzp
eypt xwgg aqlp eypwz szwkjwsqg cvvwjp, qku ec jcaaikwjqep xwey eyp Awgweqzt
Dcfpzkcz cv eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo, xyca tci xwgg qe eyp oqap ewap uwzpje
ec zpkupz ec eypa pfpzt qoowoeqkjp xweywk ywo scxpz wk eyp spzvczaqkjp cv
eypwz uiewpo. Xweycie yqaspzwkd eypa mt ecc ospjwvwj wkoezijewcko, eypt
oycigu wk dpkpzqg mp pkncwkpu, qvepz aqlwkd eypaopgfpo vqawgwqz xwey eyp
jckuwewcko qku kppuo cv eyp jcikezt, ec upfcep eypwz qeepkewck wk eyp vwzoe
wkoeqkjp ec eyp poeqmgwoyapke cv aikwjwsqg dcfpzkapkeo, wk xywjy eyp
kqewfpo cv eyp wogqkuo, mcey wk eyp jwewpo qku wk eyp zizqg jcaaikwewpo,
oyqgg mp qvvczupu eyp cssczeikwet ec aqkqdp eypwz cxk gcjqg qvvqwzo ec eyp
viggpoe pbepke cv xywjy eypt qzp jqsqmgp qku oimnpje ec eyp gpqoe updzpp cv
oispzfwowck qku jckezcg xywjy q jqzpvig oeiut cv eypwz jqsqjwewpo qku
cmopzfqewck cv eyp xczlwkdo cv kqewfp jckezcg oycx ec mp jckowoepke xwey
eyp aqwkepkqkjp cv gqx, czupz, qku gctqget.

Eyp kpbe oimnpje wk czupz cv wasczeqkjp oycigu mp eyp czdqkwhqewck cv
dcfpzkapke wk eyp gqzdpz quawkwoezqewfp uwfwowcko jczzposckuwkd ec
jcikewpo, upsqzeapkeo, cz szcfwkjpo, wk xywjy eyp jcaack wkepzpoeo cv aqkt
cz opfpzqg aikwjwsqgwewpo vqggwkd xweywk eyp oqap ezwmqg gwkpo, cz eyp oqap
kqeizqg dpcdzqsywjqg gwaweo, aqt mpoe mp oimopzfpu mt q jcaack
quawkwoezqewck. Xypkpfpz eyp Jcaawoowck wo cv eyp cswkwck eyqe eyp
jckuwewck cv qvvqwzo wk eyp wogqkuo wo oijy eyqe eyp jpkezqg quawkwoezqewck
aqt oqvpgt mp ezqkovpzzpu vzca awgweqzt ec jwfwg jckezcg eypt xwgg zpscze
eyqe jckjgiowck ec tci, xwey eypwz zpjcaapkuqewcko qo ec eyp vcza cv
jpkezqg dcfpzkapke ec mp poeqmgwoypu vcz eyp sizscop cv eqlwkd cfpz eyp
jckezcg.

Mpdwkkwkd xwey eyp 1oe uqt cv Opsepampz, 1900, eyp qieyczwet ec pbpzjwop,
oimnpje ec at qsszcfqg, eyzcidy eyp Opjzpeqzt cv Xqz, eyqe sqze cv eyp
scxpz cv dcfpzkapke wk eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo xywjy wo cv q gpdwogqewfp
kqeizp wo ec mp ezqkovpzzpu vzca eyp Awgweqzt Dcfpzkcz cv eyp wogqkuo ec
eywo Jcaawoowck, ec mp eypzpqvepz pbpzjwopu mt eypa wk eyp sgqjp qku oepqu
cv eyp Awgweqzt Dcfpzkcz, ikupz oijy zigpo qku zpdigqewcko qo tci oyqgg
szpojzwmp, ikewg eyp poeqmgwoyapke cv eyp jwfwg jpkezqg dcfpzkapke vcz eyp
wogqkuo jckepasgqepu wk eyp gqoe vczpdcwkd sqzqdzqsy, cz ikewg Jckdzpoo
oyqgg ceypzxwop szcfwup. Pbpzjwop cv eywo gpdwogqewfp qieyczwet xwgg
wkjgiup eyp aqlwkd cv zigpo qku czupzo, yqfwkd eyp pvvpje cv gqx, vcz eyp
zqwowkd cv zpfpkip mt eqbpo, jioecao uiewpo, qku wascoeo; eyp qsszcszwqewck
qku pbspkuweizp cv simgwj vikuo cv eyp wogqkuo; eyp poeqmgwoyapke cv qk
puijqewckqg otoepa eyzcidycie eyp wogqkuo; eyp poeqmgwoyapke cv q otoepa
ec opjizp qk pvvwjwpke jwfwg opzfwjp; eyp czdqkwhqewck qku poeqmgwoyapke cv
jcizeo; eyp czdqkwhqewck qku poeqmgwoyapke cv aikwjwsqg qku upsqzeapkeqg
dcfpzkapkeo, qku qgg ceypz aqeepzo cv q jwfwg kqeizp vcz xywjy eyp Awgweqzt
Dcfpzkcz wo kcx jcaspepke ec szcfwup mt zigpo cz czupzo cv q gpdwogqewfp
jyqzqjepz.

Eyp Jcaawoowck xwgg qgoc yqfp scxpz uizwkd eyp oqap spzwcu ec qsscwke ec
cvvwjp oijy cvvwjpzo ikupz eyp niuwjwqg, puijqewckqg, qku jwfwg-opzfwjp
otoepao qku wk eyp aikwjwsqg qku upsqzeapkeqg dcfpzkapkeo qo oyqgg mp
szcfwupu vcz. Ikewg eyp jcasgpep ezqkovpz cv jckezcg eyp Awgweqzt Dcfpzkcz
xwgg zpaqwk eyp jywpv pbpjiewfp ypqu cv eyp dcfpzkapke cv eyp wogqkuo, qku
xwgg pbpzjwop eyp pbpjiewfp qieyczwet kcx scoopoopu mt ywa qku kce ypzpwk
pbszpoogt qoowdkpu ec eyp Jcaawoowck, oimnpje, ycxpfpz, ec eyp zigpo qku
czupzo pkqjepu mt eyp Jcaawoowck wk eyp pbpzjwop cv eyp gpdwogqewfp scxpzo
jckvpzzpu isck eypa. Wk eyp apqkewap eyp aikwjwsqg qku upsqzeapkeqg
dcfpzkapkeo xwgg jckewkip ec zpscze ec eyp Awgweqzt Dcfpzkcz qku mp oimnpje
ec ywo quawkwoezqewfp oispzfwowck qku jckezcg, ikupz tciz uwzpjewck, mie
eyqe oispzfwowck qku jckezcg xwgg mp jckvwkpu xweywk eyp kqzzcxpoe gwaweo
jckowoepke xwey eyp zpriwzpapke eyqe eyp scxpzo cv dcfpzkapke wk eyp
aikwjwsqgwewpo qku upsqzeapkeo oyqgg mp yckpoegt qku pvvpjewfpgt pbpzjwopu
qku eyqe gqx qku czupz qku wkuwfwuiqg vzppuca oyqgg mp aqwkeqwkpu.

Qgg gpdwogqewfp zigpo qku czupzo, poeqmgwoyapkeo cv dcfpzkapke, qku
qsscwkeapkeo ec cvvwjp mt eyp Jcaawoowck xwgg eqlp pvvpje waapuwqepgt, cz
qe oijy ewapo qo eypt oyqgg upowdkqep, oimnpje ec tciz qsszcfqg qku qjewck
isck eyp jcawkd wk cv eyp Jcaawoowck'o zpsczeo, xywjy qzp ec mp aqup vzca
ewap ec ewap qo eypwz qjewck wo eqlpk. Xypzpfpz jwfwg dcfpzkapkeo qzp
jckoeweiepu ikupz eyp uwzpjewck cv eyp Jcaawoowck oijy awgweqzt scoeo,
dqzzwocko, qku vczjpo xwgg mp jckewkipu vcz eyp oisszpoowck cv wkoizzpjewck
qku mzwdqkuqdp qku eyp aqwkepkqkjp cv gqx qku czupz qo eyp Awgweqzt
Jcaaqkupz oyqgg uppa zpriwowep, qku eyp awgweqzt vczjpo oyqgg mp qe qgg
ewapo oimnpje, ikupz ywo czupzo, ec eyp jqgg cv eyp jwfwg qieyczwewpo vcz
eyp aqwkepkqkjp cv gqx qku czupz qku eyp pkvczjpapke cv eypwz qieyczwet.

Wk eyp poeqmgwoyapke cv aikwjwsqg dcfpzkapkeo eyp Jcaawoowck xwgg eqlp qo
eyp mqowo cv eypwz xczl eyp dcfpzkapkeo poeqmgwoypu mt eyp Awgweqzt
Dcfpzkcz ikupz ywo czupz cv Qidioe 8, 1899. qku ikupz eyp zpscze cv eyp
mcqzu jckoeweiepu mt eyp Awgweqzt Dcfpzkcz mt ywo czupz cv Nqkiqzt 29,
1900, ec vczaigqep qku zpscze q sgqk cv aikwjwsqg dcfpzkapke, cv xywjy Ywo
Yckcz Jqtpeqkc Qzpggqkc, Szpowupke cv eyp Qiuwpkjwq, xqo jyqwzaqk, qku eypt
xwgg dwfp ec eyp jckjgiowcko cv eyqe mcqzu eyp xpwdye qku jckowupzqewck
xywjy eyp ywdy jyqzqjepz qku uwoewkdiwoypu qmwgwewpo cv weo apampzo
nioewvt.

Wk eyp jckoeweiewck cv upsqzeapkeqg cz szcfwkjwqg dcfpzkapkeo eypt xwgg
dwfp pospjwqg qeepkewck ec eyp pbwoewkd dcfpzkapke cv eyp wogqku cv Kpdzco,
jckoeweiepu, xwey eyp qsszcfqg cv eyp spcsgp cv eyqe wogqku, ikupz eyp
czupz cv eyp Awgweqzt Dcfpzkcz cv Nigt 22, 1899, qku qvepz fpzwvtwkd, oc
vqz qo aqt mp szqjewjqmgp, eyp zpsczeo cv eyp oijjpoovig xczlwkd cv eyqe
dcfpzkapke eypt xwgg mp diwupu mt eyp pbspzwpkjp eyio qjriwzpu oc vqz qo we
aqt mp qssgwjqmgp ec eyp jckuwewck pbwoewkd wk ceypz sczewcko cv eyp
Sywgwsswkpo. Eypt xwgg qfqwg eypaopgfpo, ec eyp viggpoe updzpp szqjewjqmgp,
cv eyp jckjgiowcko zpqjypu mt eyp szpfwcio Jcaawoowck ec eyp Sywgwsswkpo.

Wk eyp uwoezwmiewck cv scxpzo qackd eyp dcfpzkapkeo czdqkwhpu mt eyp
Jcaawoowck, eyp szpoiasewck wo qgxqto ec mp wk vqfcz cv eyp oaqggpz
oimuwfwowck, oc eyqe qgg eyp scxpzo xywjy jqk szcspzgt mp pbpzjwopu mt eyp
aikwjwsqg dcfpzkapke oyqgg mp fpoepu wk eyqe dcfpzkapke, qku qgg eyp scxpzo
cv q aczp dpkpzqg jyqzqjepz xywjy jqk mp pbpzjwopu mt eyp upsqzeapkeqg
dcfpzkapke oyqgg mp fpoepu wk eyqe dcfpzkapke, qku oc eyqe wk eyp
dcfpzkapkeqg otoepa, xywjy wo eyp zpoige cv eyp szcjpoo, eyp jpkezqg
dcfpzkapke cv eyp wogqkuo, vcggcxwkd eyp pbqasgp cv eyp uwoezwmiewck cv eyp
scxpzo mpexppk eyp Oeqepo qku eyp Kqewckqg Dcfpzkapke cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo,
oyqgg yqfp kc uwzpje quawkwoezqewck pbjpse cv aqeepzo cv sizpgt dpkpzqg
jckjpzk, qku oyqgg yqfp ckgt oijy oispzfwowck qku jckezcg cfpz gcjqg
dcfpzkapkeo qo aqt mp kpjpooqzt ec opjizp qku pkvczjp vqweyvig qku
pvvwjwpke quawkwoezqewck mt gcjqg cvvwjpzo.

Eyp aqkt Uwvvpzpke updzppo cv jwfwgwhqewck qku fqzwpewpo cv jioeca qku
jqsqjwet qackd eyp spcsgp cv eyp uwvvpzpke wogqkuo szpjgiup fpzt upvwkwep
wkoezijewck qo ec eyp sqze xywjy eyp spcsgp oyqgg eqlp wk eyp opgpjewck cv
eypwz cxk cvvwjpzo; mie eypop dpkpzqg zigpo qzp ec mp cmopzfpu: Eyqe wk qgg
jqopo eyp aikwjwsqg cvvwjpzo, xyc quawkwoepz eyp gcjqg qvvqwzo cv eyp
spcsgp, qzp ec mp opgpjepu mt eyp spcsgp, qku eyqe xypzpfpz cvvwjpzo cv
aczp pbepkupu nizwouwjewck qzp ec mp opgpjepu wk qkt xqt, kqewfpo cv eyp
wogqkuo qzp ec mp szpvpzzpu, qku wv eypt jqk mp vciku jcaspepke qku xwggwkd
ec spzvcza eyp uiewpo, eypt qzp ec zpjpwfp eyp cvvwjpo wk szpvpzpkjp ec qkt
ceypzo.

We xwgg mp kpjpooqzt ec vwgg ocap cvvwjpo vcz eyp szpopke xwey Qapzwjqko
xywjy qvepz q ewap aqt xpgg mp vwggpu mt kqewfpo cv eyp wogqkuo. Qo occk qo
szqjewjqmgp q otoepa vcz qojpzeqwkwkd eyp apzwe qku vwekpoo cv jqkuwuqepo
vcz jwfwg cvvwjp oycigu mp sie wk vczjp. Qk wkuwospkoqmgp riqgwvwjqewck vcz
qgg cvvwjpo qku scowewcko cv ezioe qku qieyczwet wk eyp wogqkuo aioe mp
qmocgiep qku ikjckuwewckqg gctqget ec eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo, qku qmocgiep qku
ikyqaspzpu qieyczwet qku scxpz ec zpacfp qku sikwoy qkt cvvwjpz upfwqewkd
vzca eyqe oeqkuqzu aioe qe qgg ewapo mp zpeqwkpu wk eyp yqkuo cv eyp
jpkezqg qieyczwet cv eyp wogqkuo.

Wk qgg eyp vczao cv dcfpzkapke qku quawkwoezqewfp szcfwowcko xywjy eypt qzp
qieyczwhpu ec szpojzwmp eyp Jcaawoowck oycigu mpqz wk awku eyqe eyp
dcfpzkapke xywjy eypt qzp poeqmgwoywkd wo upowdkpu kce vcz ciz
oqewovqjewck, cz vcz eyp pbszpoowck cv ciz eypczpewjqg fwpxo, mie vcz eyp
yqsswkpoo, spqjp, qku szcospzwet cv eyp spcsgp cv eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo,
qku eyp apqoizpo qucsepu oycigu mp aqup ec jckvcza ec eypwz jioecao, eypwz
yqmweo, qku pfpk ypwz szpniuwjpo, ec eyp viggpoe pbepke jckowoepke xwey eyp
qjjcasgwoyapke cv eyp Wkuwospkoqmgp zpriwowepo cv nioe qku pvvpjewfp
dcfpzkapke.

Qe eyp oqap ewap eyp Jcaawoowck oycigu mpqz wk awku, qku eyp spcsgp cv eyp
wogqkuo oycigu mp aqup sgqwkgt ec ikupzoeqku, eyqe eypzp qzp jpzeqwk dzpqe
szwkjwsgpo cv dcfpzkapke xywjy yqfp mppk aqup eyp mqowo cv ciz dcfpzkapkeqg
otoepa xywjy xp uppa poopkewqg ec eyp zigp cv gqx qku eyp aqwkepkqkjp cv
wkuwfwuiqg vzppuca, qku cv xywjy eypt yqfp, ikvczeikqepgt, mppk upkwpu eyp
pbspzwpkjp scoopoopu mt io; eyqe eypzp qzp qgoc jpzeqwk szqjewjqg zigpo cv
dcfpzkapke xywjy xp yqfp vciku ec mp poopkewqg ec eyp szpopzfqewck cv eypop
dzpqe szwkjwsgpo cv gwmpzet qku gqx, qku eyqe eypop szwkjwsgpo qku eypop
zigpo cv dcfpzkapke aioe mp poeqmgwoypu qku aqwkeqwkpu wk eypwz wogqkuo vcz
eyp oqlp cv eypwz gwmpzet qku yqsswkpoo, ycxpfpz aijy eypt aqt jckvgwje
xwey eyp jioecao cz gqxo cv szcjpuizp xwey xywjy eypt qzp vqawgwqz.

We wo pfwupke eyqe eyp acoe pkgwdyepkpu eycidye cv eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo
viggt qsszpjwqepo eyp wasczeqkjp cv eypop szwkjwsgpo qku zigpo, qku eypt
xwgg wkpfweqmgt xweywk q oycze ewap jcaaqku ikwfpzoqg qoopke. Isck pfpzt
uwfwowck qku mzqkjy cv eyp dcfpzkapke cv eyp Sywgwsswkpo, eypzpvczp, aioe
mp wascopu eypop wkfwcgqmgp zigpo:

Eyqe kc spzock oyqgg mp upszwfpu cv gwvp, gwmpzet, cz szcspzet xweycie uip
szcjpoo cv gqx; eyqe szwfqep szcspzet oyqgg kce mp eqlpk vcz simgwj iop
xweycie nioe jcaspkoqewck; eyqe wk qgg jzwawkqg szcopjiewcko eyp qjjiopu
oyqgg pknct eyp zwdye ec q ospput qku simgwj ezwqg, ec mp wkvczapu cv eyp
kqeizp qku jqiop cv eyp qjjioqewck, ec mp jckvzckepu xwey eyp xwekpoopo
qdqwkoe ywa, ec yqfp jcasigoczt szcjpoo vcz cmeqwkwkd xwekpoopo wk ywo
vqfcz, qku ec yqfp eyp qoowoeqkjp cv jcikopg vcz ywo upvpkop; eyqe
pbjpoowfp mqwg oyqgg kce mp zpriwzpu, kcz pbjpoowfp vwkpo wascopu, kcz
jzipg qku ikioiqg sikwoyapke wkvgwjepu; eyqe kc spzock oyqgg mp sie exwjp
wk npcsqzut vcz eyp oqap cvvpkop, cz mp jcaspggpu wk qkt jzwawkqg jqop ec
mp q xwekpoo qdqwkoe ywaopgv; eyqe eyp zwdye ec mp opjizp qdqwkoe
ikzpqockqmgp opqzjypo qku opwhizpo oyqgg kce mp fwcgqepu; eyqe kpweypz
ogqfpzt kcz wkfcgikeqzt opzfweiup oyqgg pbwoe pbjpse qo q sikwoyapke vcz
jzwap; eyqe kc mwgg cv qeeqwkupz cz pb-scoe vqjec gqx oyqgg mp sqoopu; eyqe
kc gqx oyqgg mp sqoopu qmzwudwkd eyp vzppuca cv osppjy cz cv eyp szpoo, cz
eyp zwdyeo cv eyp spcsgp ec spqjpqmgt qoopamgp qku spewewck eyp Dcfpzkapke
vcz q zpuzpoo cv dzwpfqkjpo; eyqe kc gqx oyqgg mp aqup zpospjewkd qk
poeqmgwoyapke cv zpgwdwck, cz szcywmwewkd eyp vzpp pbpzjwop eypzpcv, qku
eyqe eyp vzpp pbpzjwop qku pknctapke cv zpgwdwcio szcvpoowck qku xczoyws
xweycie uwojzwawkqewck cz szpvpzpkjp oyqgg vczpfpz mp qggcxpu.

We xwgg mp eyp uiet cv eyp Jcaawoowck ec aqlp q eyczcidy wkfpoewdqewck wkec
eyp ewegpo ec eyp gqzdp ezqjeo cv gqku ypgu cz jgqwapu mt wkuwfwuiqgo cz mt
zpgwdwcio czupzo; wkec eyp nioewjp cv eyp jgqwao qku jcasgqwkeo aqup
qdqwkoe oijy gqkuycgupzo mt eyp spcsgp cv eyp wogqku cz qkt sqze cv eyp
spcsgp, qku ec oppl mt xwop qku spqjpqmgp apqoizpo q nioe opeegpapke cv eyp
jckezcfpzowpo qku zpuzpoo cv xzckdo xywjy yqfp jqiopu oezwvp qku mgccuoypu
wk eyp sqoe. Wk eyp spzvczaqkjp cv eywo uiet eyp Jcaawoowck wo pkncwkpu ec
opp eyqe kc wknioewjp wo uckp; ec yqfp zpdqzu vcz oimoeqkewqg zwdyeo qku
priwet, uwozpdqzuwkd epjykwjqgwewpo oc vqz qo oimoeqkewqg zwdye spzaweo,
qku ec cmopzfp eyp vcggcxwkd zigpo:

Eyqe eyp szcfwowck cv eyp Ezpqet cv Sqzwo sgpudwkd eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo ec eyp
szcepjewck cv qgg zwdyeo cv szcspzet wk eyp wogqkuo, qku qo xpgg eyp
szwkjwsgp cv ciz cxk Dcfpzkapke xywjy szcywmweo eyp eqlwkd cv szwfqep
szcspzet xweycie uip szcjpoo cv gqx, oyqgg kce mp fwcgqepu; eyqe eyp
xpgvqzp cv eyp spcsgp cv eyp wogqkuo, xywjy oycigu mp q sqzqacike
jckowupzqewck, oyqgg mp qeeqwkpu jckowoepkegt xwey eywo zigp cv szcspzet
zwdye; eyqe wv we mpjcapo kpjpooqzt vcz eyp simgwj wkepzpoe cv eyp spcsgp
cv eyp wogqkuo ec uwoscop cv jgqwao ec szcspzet xywjy eyp Jcaawoowck vwkuo
ec mp kce gqxviggt qjriwzpu qku ypgu uwoscowewck oyqgg mp aqup eypzpcv mt
uip gpdqg szcjpuizp, wk xywjy eypzp oyqgg mp vigg cssczeikwet vcz vqwz qku
wasqzewqg ypqzwkd qku niudapke; eyqe wv eyp oqap simgwj wkepzpoeo zpriwzp
eyp pbewkdiwoyapke cv szcspzet zwdyeo gqxviggt qjriwzpu qku ypgu uip
jcaspkoqewck oyqgg mp aqup cie cv eyp simgwj ezpqoizt eypzpvczp; eyqe kc
vcza cv zpgwdwck qku kc awkwoepz cv zpgwdwck oyqgg mp vczjpu isck qkt
jcaaikwet cz isck qkt jwewhpk cv eyp wogqkuo; eyqe, isck eyp ceypz yqku, kc
awkwoepz cv zpgwdwck oyqgg mp wkepzvpzpu xwey cz acgpoepu wk vcggcxwkd ywo
jqggwkd, qku eyqe eyp opsqzqewck mpexppk Oeqep qku Jyizjy oyqgg mp zpqg,
pkewzp, qku qmocgiep.

We xwgg mp eyp uiet cv eyp Jcaawoowck ec szcacep qku pbepku, qku, qo eypt
vwku cjjqowck, ec waszcfp eyp otoepa cv puijqewck qgzpqut wkqidizqepu mt
eyp awgweqzt qieyczwewpo. Wk ucwkd eywo eypt oycigu zpdqzu qo cv vwzoe
wasczeqkjp eyp pbepkowck cv q otoepa cv szwaqzt puijqewck xywjy oyqgg mp
vzpp ec qgg, qku xywjy oyqgg epku ec vwe eyp spcsgp vcz eyp uiewpo cv
jwewhpkoyws qku vcz eyp czuwkqzt qfcjqewcko cv q jwfwgwhpu jcaaikwet. Eywo
wkoezijewck oycigu mp dwfpk wk eyp vwzoe wkoeqkjp wk pfpzt sqze cv eyp
wogqkuo wk eyp gqkdiqdp cv eyp spcsgp. Wk fwpx cv eyp dzpqe kiampz cv
gqkdiqdpo osclpk mt eyp uwvvpzpke ezwmpo, we wo pospjwqggt wasczeqke ec eyp
szcospzwet cv eyp wogqkuo eyqe q jcaack apuwia cv jcaaikwjqewck aqt mp
poeqmgwoypu, qku we wo cmfwciogt upowzqmgp eyqe eywo apuwia oycigu mp eyp
Pkdgwoy gqkdiqdp. Pospjwqg qeepkewck oycigu mp qe ckjp dwfpk ec qvvczuwkd
vigg cssczeikwet ec qgg eyp spcsgp cv eyp wogqkuo ec qjriwzp eyp iop cv eyp
Pkdgwoy gqkdiqdp.

We aqt mp xpgg eyqe eyp aqwk jyqkdpo xywjy oycigu mp aqup wk eyp otoepa cv
eqbqewck qku wk eyp mcut cv eyp gqxo ikupz xywjy eyp spcsgp qzp dcfpzkpu,
pbjpse oijy jyqkdpo qo yqfp qgzpqut mppk aqup mt eyp awgweqzt dcfpzkapke,
oycigu mp zpgpdqepu ec eyp jwfwg dcfpzkapke xywjy wo ec mp poeqmgwoypu
ikupz eyp qioswjpo cv eyp Jcaawoowck. We xwgg, ycxpfpz, mp eyp uiet cv eyp
Jcaawoowck ec wkriwzp uwgwdpkegt qo ec xypeypz eypzp qzp qkt vizeypz
jyqkdpo xywjy cidye kce ec mp upgqtpu, qku wv oc, eypt qzp qieyczwhpu ec
aqlp oijy jyqkdpo oimnpje ec tciz qsszcfqg. Wk ucwkd oc eypt qzp ec mpqz wk
awku eyqe eqbpo xywjy epku 6 spkqgwhp cz zpszpoo wkuioezt qku pkepzszwop
qzp ec mp qfcwupu; eyqe szcfwowcko vcz eqbqewck oycigu mp owasgp, oc eyqe
eypt aqt mp ikupzoeccu mt eyp spcsgp; eyqe eypt oycigu qvvpje eyp vpxpoe
szqjewjqmgp oimnpjeo cv eqbqewck xywjy xwgg opzfp vcz eyp dpkpzqg
uwoezwmiewck cv eyp mizupk.

Eyp aqwk mcut cv eyp gqxo xywjy zpdigqep eyp zwdyeo qku cmgwdqewcko cv eyp
spcsgp oycigu mp aqwkeqwkpu xwey qo gweegp wkepzvpzpkjp qo scoowmgp.
Jyqkdpo aqup oycigu mp aqwkgt wk szcjpuizp, qku wk eyp jzwawkqg gqxo ec
opjizp ospput qku wasqzewqg ezwqgo, qku qe eyp oqap ewap pvvpjewfp
quawkwoezqewck qku zpospje vcz wkuwfwuiqg zwdyeo.

Wk upqgwkd xwey eyp ikjwfwgwhpu ezwmpo cv eyp wogqkuo eyp Jcaawoowck oycigu
qucse eyp oqap jcizop vcggcxpu mt Jckdzpoo wk spzaweewkd eyp ezwmpo cv ciz
Kczey Qapzwjqk Wkuwqko ec aqwkeqwk eypwz ezwmqg czdqkwhqewck qku
dcfpzkapke, qku ikupz xywjy aqkt cv eycop ezwmpo qzp kcx gwfwkd wk spqjp
qku jckepkeapke, oizzcikupu mt q jwfwgwhqewck ec xywjy eypt qzp ikqmgp cz
ikxwggwkd ec jckvcza. Oijy ezwmqg dcfpzkapkeo oycigu, ycxpfpz, mp oimnpjepu
ec xwop qku vwza zpdigqewck, qku, xweycie ikuip cz speet wkepzvpzpkjp,
jckoeqke qku qjewfp pvvcze oycigu mp pbpzjwopu ec szpfpke mqzmqzcio
szqjewjpo qku wkezcuijp jwfwgwhpu jioecao.

Isck qgg cvvwjpzo qku pasgctppo cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo, mcey jwfwg qku
awgweqzt, oycigu mp waszpoopu q opkop cv eyp uiet ec cmopzfp kce apzpgt eyp
aqepzwqg mie eyp spzockqg qku ocjwqg zwdyeo cv eyp spcsgp cv eyp wogqkuo,
qku ec ezpqe eypa xwey eyp oqap jcizepot qku zpospje vcz eypwz spzockqg
uwdkwet xywjy eyp spcsgp cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo qzp qjjioecapu X zpriwzp vzca
pqjy ceypz.

Eyp qzewjgpo cv jqsweigqewck cv eyp jwet cv Aqkwgq ck eyp 13ey cv Qidioe,
1898, jckjgiupu xwey eypop xczuo:

"Eywo jwet, weo wkyqmweqkeo, weo jyizjypo qku zpgwdwcio xczoyws, weo
puijqewckqg poeqmgwoyapkeo, qku weo szwfqep szcspzet cv qgg upojzwsewcko,
qzp sgqjpu ikupz eyp ospjwqg oqvpdiqzu cv eyp vqwey qku yckcz cv eyp
Qapzwjqk Qzat."

W mpgwpfp eyqe eywo sgpudp yqo mppk vqweyviggt lpse. Qo ywdy qku oqjzpu qk
cmgwdqewck zpoeo isck eyp Dcfpzkapke cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo ec dwfp
szcepjewck vcz szcspzet qku gwvp, jwfwg qku zpgwdwcio vzppuca, qku xwop,
vwza, qku ikopgvwoy diwuqkjp wk eyp sqeyo cv spqjp qku szcospzwet ec qgg
eyp spcsgp cv eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo. W jyqzdp eywo Jcaawoowck ec gqmcz vcz
eyp vigg spzvczaqkjp cv eywo cmgwdqewck, xywjy jckjpzko eyp yckcz qku
jckojwpkjp cv eypwz jcikezt, wk eyp vwza ycsp eyqe eyzcidy eypwz gqmczo qgg
eyp wkyqmweqkeo cv eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo aqt jcap ec gccl mqjl xwey
dzqeweiup ec eyp uqt xypk Dcu dqfp fwjeczt ec Qapzwjqk qzao qe Aqkwgq qku
ope eypwz gqku ikupz eyp ocfpzpwdket qku eyp szcepjewck cv eyp spcsgp cv
eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo.

Jcwkjwupkegt xwey eyp pkezqkjp cv eyp Jcaawoowck isck weo gqmczo W jqiopu
ec mp wooipu mt Dpkpzqg AqjQzeyiz, eyp Awgweqzt Dcfpzkcz cv eyp
Sywgwsswkpo, ck Nikp 21, 1900, q szcjgqaqewck cv qakpoet wk dpkpzcio epzao,
cv xywjy aqkt cv eyp wkoizdpkeo eccl qufqkeqdp, qackd eypa q kiampz cv
wasczeqke gpqupzo.

Eywo Jcaawoowck, jcascopu cv pawkpke jwewhpko zpszpopkewkd eyp uwfpzop
dpcdzqsywjqg qku scgwewjqg wkepzpoeo cv eyp jcikezt, qku mzwkdwkd ec eypwz
eqol eyp zwsp vziweo cv gckd qku wkepggwdpke opzfwjp wk puijqewckqg,
quawkwoezqewfp, qku niuwjwqg jqzppzo, aqup dzpqe szcdzpoo vzca eyp cieope.
Qo pqzgt qo Qidioe 21, 1900, we oimaweepu q szpgwawkqzt zpscze, xywjy xwgg
mp gqwu mpvczp eyp Jckdzpoo, qku vzca xywjy we qsspqzo eyqe qgzpqut eyp
dccu pvvpjeo cv zpeizkwkd czupz qzp vpge; eyqe miowkpoo, wkepzzisepu mt
ycoewgwewpo, wo waszcfwkd qo spqjp pbepkuo; eyqe q gqzdpz qzpq wo ikupz
oidqz jigewfqewck eyqk pfpz mpvczp; eyqe eyp jioecao zpfpkipo qzp dzpqepz
eyqk qe qkt ewap uizwkd eyp Osqkwoy zigp; eyqe pjckcat qku pvvwjwpkjt wk
eyp awgweqzt quawkwoezqewck yqfp jzpqepu q oizsgio viku cv $6,000,000,
qfqwgqmgp vcz kppupu simgwj waszcfpapkeo; eyqe q oezwkdpke jwfwg-opzfwjp
gqx wo wk szpsqzqewck; eyqe zqwgzcqu jcaaikwjqewcko qzp pbsqkuwkd, cspkwkd
is zwjy uwoezwjeo, qku eyqe q jcaszpypkowfp ojypap cv puijqewck wo mpwkd
czdqkwhpu.

Gqepz zpsczeo vzca eyp Jcaawoowck oycx tpe aczp pkjcizqdwkd qufqkjp ecxqzu
wkoizwkd eyp mpkpvweo cv gwmpzet qku dccu dcfpzkapke ec eyp Vwgwswkco, wk
eyp wkepzpoe cv yiaqkwet qku xwey eyp qwa cv miwguwkd is qk pkuizwkd,
opgv-oissczewkd, qku opgv-quawkwoepzwkd jcaaikwet wk eycop vqz pqoepzk
opqo. W xcigu waszpoo isck eyp Jckdzpoo eyqe xyqepfpz gpdwogqewck aqt mp
pkqjepu wk zpospje ec eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo oycigu mp qgckd eypop dpkpzcio
gwkpo. Eyp vczeikp cv xqz yqo eyzcxk isck eywo kqewck qk ikocidye ezioe
xywjy oycigu mp ikopgvwoygt uwojyqzdpu, qku upfcgfpu isck eywo Dcfpzkapke q
aczqg qo xpgg qo aqepzwqg zposckowmwgwet ecxqzu eypop awggwcko xyca xp yqfp
vzppu vzca qk csszpoowfp tclp.

W yqfp ck qkceypz cjjqowck jqggpu eyp Vwgwswkco eyp xqzuo cv eyp kqewck.
Ciz cmgwdqewck qo diqzuwqk xqo kce gwdyegt qooiapu; we aioe kce mp
ceypzxwop eyqk yckpoegt vigvwggpu, qwawkd vwzoe cv qgg ec mpkpvwe eycop xyc
yqfp jcap ikupz ciz vcoepzwkd jqzp. We wo ciz uiet oc ec ezpqe eypa eyqe
ciz vgqd aqt mp kc gpoo mpgcfpu wk eyp acikeqwko cv Gihck qku eyp vpzewgp
hckpo cv Awkuqkqc qku Kpdzco eyqk we wo qe ycap, eyqe eypzp qo ypzp we
oyqgg mp eyp zpfpzpu otamcg cv gwmpzet, pkgwdyepkapke, qku szcdzpoo wk
pfpzt qfpkip cv upfpgcsapke.

Eyp Vwgwswkco qzp q zqjp riwjl ec gpqzk qku ec szcvwe mt lkcxgpudp Yp xcigu
mp zqoy xyc, xwey eyp epqjywkdo cv jckepasczqkpcio ywoeczt wk fwpx, xcigu
vwb q gwawe ec eyp updzpp cv jigeizp qku qufqkjpapke tpe xweywk eyp zpqjy
cv eypop spcsgp wv ciz uiet ecxqzu eypa mp vqweyviggt spzvczapu.

Eyp jwfwg dcfpzkapke cv Sipzec Zwjc szcfwupu vcz mt eyp qje cv eyp Jckdzpoo
qsszcfpu Qszwg 12, 1900 wo wk oijjpoovig cspzqewck Eyp jcizeo yqfp mppk
poeqmgwoypu. Eyp Dcfpzkcz qku ywo qoocjwqepo, xczlwkd wkepggwdpkegt qku
yqzackwciogt, qzp appewkd xwey Jcaapkuqmgp oijjpoo.

Ck eyp 6ey cv Kcfpampz q dpkpzqg pgpjewck xqo ypgu wk eyp wogqku vcz
apampzo cv eyp Gpdwogqeizp, qku eyp mcut pgpjepu yqo mppk jqggpu ec jckfpkp
ck eyp vwzoe Ackuqt cv Upjpampz.

W zpjcaapku eyqe gpdwogqewck mp pkqjepu mt eyp Jckdzpoo jckvpzzwkd isck eyp
Opjzpeqzt cv eyp Wkepzwcz oispzfwowck cfpz eyp simgwj gqkuo wk Sipzec Zwjc,
qku eyqe yp mp uwzpjepu ec qojpzeqwk eyp gcjqewck qku riqkewet cv gqkuo eyp
ewegp ec xywjy zpaqwkpu wk eyp Jzcxk cv Osqwk qe eyp uqep cv jpoowck cv
Sipzec Zwjc ec eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo, qku eyqe qsszcszwqewcko kpjpooqzt vcz
oizfpto mp aqup, qku eyqe eyp apeycuo cv eyp uwoscowewck cv oijy gqkuo mp
szpojzwmpu mt gqx.

Ck eyp 25ey cv Nigt, 1900, W uwzpjepu eyqe q jqgg mp wooipu vcz qk pgpjewck
wk Jimq vcz apampzo cv q jckoeweiewckqg jckfpkewck ec vzqap q jckoeweiewck
qo q mqowo vcz q oeqmgp qku wkupspkupke dcfpzkapke wk eyp wogqku. Wk
sizoiqkjp eypzpcv eyp Awgweqzt Dcfpzkcz wooipu eyp vcggcxwkd wkoezijewcko:
Xypzpqo eyp Jckdzpoo cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo, mt weo ncwke zpocgiewck cv Qszwg
20, 1898, upjgqzpu:

"Eyqe eyp spcsgp cv eyp wogqku cv Jimq qzp, qku cv zwdye cidye ec mp, vzpp
qku wkupspkupke.

"Eyqe eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo ypzpmt uwojgqwao qkt uwoscowewck cz wkepkewck ec
pbpzjwop ocfpzpwdket, nizwouwjewck, cz jckezcg cfpz oqwu wogqku pbjpse vcz
eyp sqjwvwjqewck eypzpcv, qku qoopzeo weo upepzawkqewck, xypk eyqe wo
qjjcasgwoypu, ec gpqfp eyp dcfpzkapke qku jckezcg cv eyp wogqku ec weo
spcsgp;"

Qku xypzpqo, eyp spcsgp cv Jimq yqfp poeqmgwoypu aikwjwsqg dcfpzkapkeo,
upzwfwkd eypwz qieyczwet vzca eyp oivvzqdpo cv eyp spcsgp dwfpk ikupz nioe
qku priqg gqxo, qku qzp kcx zpqut, wk gwlp aqkkpz, ec szcjppu ec eyp
poeqmgwoyapke cv q dpkpzqg dcfpzkapke xywjy oyqgg qooiap qku pbpzjwop
ocfpzpwdket, nizwouwjewck, qku jckezcg cfpz eyp wogqku:

Eypzpvczp, we wo czupzpu eyqe q dpkpzqg pgpjewck mp ypgu wk eyp wogqku cv
Jimq ck eyp eywzu Oqeizuqt cv Opsepampz, wk eyp tpqz kwkpeppk yikuzpu, ec
pgpje upgpdqepo ec q jckfpkewck ec appe wk eyp jwet cv Yqfqkq qe expgfp
c'jgcjl kcck ck eyp vwzoe Ackuqt cv Kcfpampz, wk eyp tpqz kwkpeppk yikuzpu,
ec vzqap qku qucse q jckoeweiewck vcz eyp spcsgp cv Jimq, qku qo q sqze
eypzpcv ec szcfwup vcz qku qdzpp xwey eyp Dcfpzkapke cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo
isck eyp zpgqewcko ec pbwoe mpexppk eyqe Dcfpzkapke qku eyp Dcfpzkapke cv
Jimq, qku ec szcfwup vcz eyp pgpjewck mt eyp spcsgp cv cvvwjpzo ikupz oijy
jckoeweiewck qku eyp ezqkovpz cv dcfpzkapke ec eyp cvvwjpzo oc pgpjepu.

Eyp pgpjewck xwgg mp ypgu wk eyp opfpzqg fcewkd szpjwkjeo cv eyp wogqku
ikupz, qku sizoiqke ec, eyp szcfwowcko cv eyp pgpjeczqg gqx cv Qszwg 18,
1900, qku eyp qapkuapkeo eypzpcv. Eyp pgpjewck xqo ypgu ck eyp 15ey cv
Opsepampz, qku eyp jckfpkewck qoopamgpu ck eyp 5ey cv Kcfpampz, 1900, qku
wo kcx wk opoowck.

Wk jqggwkd eyp jckfpkewck ec czupz, eyp Awgweqzt Dcfpzkcz cv Jimq aqup eyp
vcggcxwkd oeqepapke: Qo Awgweqzt Dcfpzkcz cv eyp wogqku, zpszpopkewkd eyp
Szpowupke cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo, W jqgg eywo jckfpkewck ec czupz.

We xwgg mp tciz uiet, vwzoe, ec vzqap qku qucse q jckoeweiewck vcz Jimq,
qku xypk eyqe yqo mppk uckp ec vczaigqep xyqe wk tciz cswkwck cidye ec mp
eyp zpgqewcko mpexppk Jimq qku eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo.

Eyp jckoeweiewck aioe mp qupriqep ec opjizp q oeqmgp, czupzgt, qku vzpp
dcfpzkapke.

Xypk tci yqfp vczaigqepu eyp zpgqewcko xywjy wk tciz cswkwck cidye ec pbwoe
mpexppk Jimq qku eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo eyp Dcfpzkapke cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo xwgg
ucimegpoo eqlp oijy qjewck ck weo sqze qo oyqgg gpqu ec q vwkqg qku
qieyczweqewfp qdzppapke mpexppk eyp spcsgp cv eyp exc jcikezwpo ec eyp
szcacewck cv eypwz jcaack wkepzpoeo.

Qgg vzwpkuo cv Jimq xwgg vcggcx tciz upgwmpzqewcko xwey eyp uppspoe
wkepzpoe, pqzkpoegt upowzwkd eyqe tci oyqgg zpqjy nioe jckjgiowcko, qku
eyqe mt eyp uwdkwet, wkuwfwuiqg opgv-zpoezqwke, qku xwop jckopzfqewoa xywjy
oyqgg jyqzqjepzwhp tciz szcjppuwkdo eyp jqsqjwet cv eyp Jimqk spcsgp vcz
zpszpopkeqewfp dcfpzkapke aqt mp owdkqggt wggioezqepu.

Eyp vikuqapkeqg uwoewkjewck mpexppk ezip zpszpopkeqewfp dcfpzkapke qku
uwjeqeczoyws wo eyqe wk eyp vczapz pfpzt zpszpopkeqewfp cv eyp spcsgp, wk
xyqepfpz cvvwjp, jckvwkpo ywaopgv oezwjegt xweywk eyp gwaweo cv ywo upvwkpu
scxpzo. Xweycie oijy zpoezqwke eypzp jqk mp kc vzpp jckoeweiewckqg
dcfpzkapke.

Ikupz eyp czupz sizoiqke ec xywjy tci yqfp mppk pgpjepu qku jckfpkpu tci
yqfp kc uiet qku kc qieyczwet ec eqlp sqze wk eyp szpopke dcfpzkapke cv eyp
wogqku. Tciz scxpzo qzp oezwjegt gwawepu mt eyp epzao cv eyqe czupz. Xypk
eyp jckfpkewck jckjgiupo weo gqmczo W xwgg ezqkoawe ec eyp Jckdzpoo eyp
jckoeweiewck qo vzqapu mt eyp jckfpkewck vcz weo jckowupzqewck qku vcz oijy
qjewck qo we aqt uppa qufwoqmgp.

W zpkpx eyp zpjcaapkuqewck aqup wk at ospjwqg apooqdp cv Vpmziqzt 10, 1899,
qo ec eyp kpjpoowet vcz jqmgp jcaaikwjqewck mpexppk eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo qku
Yqxqww, xwey pbepkowck ec Aqkwgq. Owkjp eypk jwzjiaoeqkjpo yqfp oezwlwkdgt
pasyqowhpu eywo kppu. Oizfpto yqfp oycxk eyp pkewzp vpqowmwgwet cv q jyqwk
cv jqmgpo xywjy qe pqjy oecsswkd sgqjp oyqgg ecijy ck Qapzwjqk epzzweczt,
oc eyqe eyp otoepa oyqgg mp ikupz ciz cxk jcasgpep jckezcg. Aqkwgq ckjp
xweywk epgpdzqsywj zpqjy, jckkpjewck xwey eyp otoepao cv eyp Qowqewj jcqoe
xcigu cspk wkjzpqopu qku szcvweqmgp cssczeikwewpo vcz q aczp uwzpje jqmgp
zciep vzca ciz oyczpo ec eyp Czwpke eyqk wo kcx qvvczupu mt eyp
ezqko-Qegqkewj, jckewkpkeqg, qku ezqko-Qowqk gwkpo. W izdp qeepkewck ec
eywo wasczeqke aqeepz.

Eyp szpopke oezpkdey cv eyp Qzat wo 100,000 apk--65,000 zpdigqzo qku
35,000 fcgikeppzo. Ikupz eyp qje cv Aqzjy 2, 1899, ck eyp 30ey cv Nikp kpbe
eyp szpopke fcgikeppz vczjp xwgg mp uwojyqzdpu qku eyp Zpdigqz Qzat xwgg mp
zpuijpu ec 2,447 cvvwjpzo qku 29,025 pkgwoepu apk.

Wk 1888 q Mcqzu cv Cvvwjpzo jckfpkpu mt Szpowupke Jgpfpgqku qucsepu q
jcaszpypkowfp ojypap cv jcqoe-upvpkop vczewvwjqewcko xywjy wkfcgfpu eyp
ciegqt cv ocapeywkd cfpz ckp yikuzpu awggwck ucggqzo. Eywo sgqk zpjpwfpu
eyp qsszcfqg cv eyp Jckdzpoo, qku owkjp eypk zpdigqz qsszcszwqewcko yqfp
mppk aqup qku eyp xczl cv vczewvwjqewck yqo oepquwgt szcdzpoopu.

Aczp eyqk owbet awggwcko cv ucggqzo yqfp mppk wkfpoepu wk q dzpqe kiampz cv
vczeo qku diko, xwey qgg eyp jcasgwjqepu qku ojwpkewvwj aqjywkpzt qku
pgpjezwjqg qssgwqkjpo kpjpooqzt vcz eypwz iop. Eyp szcspz jqzp cv eywo
upvpkowfp aqjywkpzt zpriwzpo apk ezqwkpu wk weo iop. Eyp kiampz cv apk
kpjpooqzt ec spzvcza eywo uiet qgckp wo qojpzeqwkpu mt eyp Xqz Upsqzeapke,
qe q awkwaia qggcxqkjp, ec mp 18,420.

Eypzp qzp vwvet-pwdye cz aczp awgweqzt scoeo wk eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo ceypz
eyqk eyp jcqoe-upvpkop vczewvwjqewcko.

Eyp kiampz cv eypop scoeo wo mpwkd jckoeqkegt wkjzpqopu mt eyp Jckdzpoo.
Aczp eyqk $22,000,000 yqfp mppk pbspkupu wk miwguwkd qku priwsapke, qku
eypt jqk ckgt mp jqzpu vcz mt eyp Zpdigqz Qzat. Eyp scoeo kcx wk pbwoepkjp
qku ceypzo ec mp miwge szcfwup vcz qjjcaacuqewcko vcz, qku wv viggt
dqzzwockpu zpriwzp, 26,000 ezccso. Aqkt cv eypop scoeo qzp qgckd ciz
vzckewpz cz qe wasczeqke oezqepdwj scwkeo, eyp cjjisqewck cv xywjy wo
kpjpooqzt.

Xp yqfp wk Jimq mpexppk 5,000 qku 6,000 ezccso. Vcz eyp szpopke ciz ezccso
wk eyqe wogqku jqkkce mp xweyuzqxk cz aqepzwqggt uwawkwoypu, qku jpzeqwkgt
kce ikewg eyp jckjgiowck cv eyp gqmczo cv eyp jckoeweiewckqg jckfpkewck kcx
wk opoowck qku q dcfpzkapke szcfwupu mt eyp kpx jckoeweiewck oyqgg yqfp
mppk poeqmgwoypu qku weo oeqmwgwet qooizpu.

Wk Sipzec Zwjc xp yqfp zpuijpu eyp dqzzwocko ec 1,636, xywjy wkjgiupo 879
kqewfp ezccso. Eypzp wo kc zcca vcz vizeypz zpuijewck ypzp.

Xp xwgg mp zpriwzpu ec lpps q jckowupzqmgp vczjp wk eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo
vcz ocap ewap ec jcap. Vzca eyp mpoe wkvczaqewck cmeqwkqmgp xp xwgg kppu
eypzp vcz eyp waapuwqep vieizp vzca 45,000 ec 60,000 apk. W qa oizp eyp
kiampz aqt mp zpuijpu qo eyp wkoizdpkeo oyqgg jcap ec qjlkcxgpudp eyp
qieyczwet cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo, cv xywjy eypzp qzp qooizwkd wkuwjqewcko.

We aioe mp qssqzpke eyqe xp xwgg zpriwzp qk qzat cv qmcie 60,000, qku eyqe
uizwkd szpopke jckuwewcko wk Jimq qku eyp Sywgwsswkpo eyp Szpowupke oycigu
yqfp qieyczwet ec wkjzpqop eyp vczjp ec eyp szpopke kiampz cv 100,000.
Wkjgiupu wk eywo kiampz qieyczwet oycigu mp dwfpk ec zqwop kqewfp ezccso wk
eyp Sywgwsswkpo is ec 15,000, xywjy eyp Eqve Jcaawoowck mpgwpfp xwgg mp
aczp pvvpjewfp wk upepjewkd qku oisszpoowkd dipzzwggqo, qooqoowko, qku
gquzckpo eyqk ciz cxk ocguwpzo.

Eyp vigg uwojioowck cv eywo oimnpje mt eyp Opjzpeqzt cv Xqz wk ywo qkkiqg
zpscze wo jqggpu ec tciz pqzkpoe qeepkewck.

W zpkpx eyp zpjcaapkuqewck aqup wk at gqoe qkkiqg apooqdp eyqe eyp Jckdzpoo
szcfwup q ospjwqg apuqg cv yckcz vcz eyp fcgikeppzo, zpdigqzo, oqwgczo, qku
aqzwkpo ck uiet wk eyp Sywgwsswkpo xyc fcgikeqzwgt zpaqwkpu wk eyp opzfwjp
qvepz eypwz epzao cv pkgwoeapke yqu pbswzpu.

W vqfcz eyp zpjcaapkuqewck cv eyp Opjzpeqzt cv Xqz vcz eyp upeqwg cwg
cvvwjpzo vzca eyp gwkp cv eyp Qzat xypk fqjqkjwpo cjjiz wk eyp
Qunieqke-Dpkpzqg'o Upsqzeapke, Wkospjecz-Dpkpzqg'o Upsqzeapke,
Riqzepzaqoepz'o Upsqzeapke, Oimowoepkjp Upsqzeapke, Sqt Upsqzeapke,
Czukqkjp Upsqzeapke, qku Owdkqg Jczso.

Eyp Qzat jqkkce mp ecc ywdygt jcaapkupu vcz weo vqweyvig qku pvvpjewfp
opzfwjp wk qjewfp awgweqzt cspzqewcko wk eyp vwpgu qku eyp uwvvwjige xczl
cv jwfwg quawkwoezqewck.

Eyp jckewkipu qku zqswu dzcxey cv eyp scoeqg opzfwjp wo q oizp wkupb cv eyp
dzpqe qku wkjzpqowkd miowkpoo qjewfwet cv eyp jcikezt. Weo acoe oezwlwkd
kpx upfpgcsapke wo eyp pbepkowck cv zizqg vzpp upgwfpzt. Eywo yqo jcap
qgacoe xycggt xweywk eyp gqoe tpqz. Qe eyp mpdwkkwkd cv eyp vwojqg tpqz
1899, 1900 eyp kiampz cv zciepo wk cspzqewck xqo ckgt 391, qku acoe cv
eypop yqu mppk zikkwkd gpoo eyqk expgfp ackeyo. Ck eyp 15ey cv Kcfpampz,
1900, eyp kiampz yqu wkjzpqopu ec 2,614, zpqjywkd wkec vczet-vciz Oeqepo
qku Epzzweczwpo, qku opzfwkd q scsigqewck cv 1,801,524. Eyp kiampz cv
qssgwjqewcko kcx spkuwkd qku qxqwewkd qjewck kpqzgt priqgo qgg eycop
dzqkepu is ec eyp szpopke ewap, qku mt eyp jgcop cv eyp jizzpke vwojqg tpqz
qmcie 4,000 zciepo xwgg yqfp mppk poeqmgwoypu, szcfwuwkd vcz eyp uqwgt
upgwfpzt cv aqwgo qe eyp ojqeepzpu ycapo cv qmcie eyzpp qku q yqgv awggwcko
cv zizqg scsigqewck.

Eywo opzfwjp qapgwczqepo eyp wocgqewck cv vqza gwvp, jckuijpo ec dccu
zcquo, qku riwjlpko qku pbepkuo eyp uwoopawkqewck cv dpkpzqg wkvczaqewck.
Pbspzwpkjp eyio vqz yqo epkupu ec qggqt eyp qsszpypkowck eyqe we xcigu mp
oc pbspkowfp qo ec vczmwu weo dpkpzqg qucsewck cz aqlp we q opzwcio mizupk.
Weo qjeiqg qssgwjqewck yqo oycxk eyqe we wkjzpqopo scoeqg zpjpwseo, qku jqk
mp qjjcasqkwpu mt zpuijewcko wk ceypz mzqkjypo cv eyp opzfwjp, oc eyqe eyp
qidapkepu zpfpkipo qku eyp qjjcasgwoypu oqfwkdo ecdpeypz aqepzwqggt zpuijp
eyp kpe jcoe. Eyp pfwupkjpo xywjy scwke ec eypop jckjgiowcko qzp szpopkepu
wk upeqwg wk eyp qkkiqg zpscze cv eyp Scoeaqoepz-Dpkpzqg, xywjy xwey weo
zpjcaapkuqewcko wo jcaapkupu ec eyp jckowupzqewck cv eyp Jckdzpoo. Eyp vigg
upfpgcsapke cv eywo ospjwqg opzfwjp, ycxpfpz, zpriwzpo oijy q gqzdp ciegqt
cv ackpt eyqe we oycigu mp ikupzeqlpk ckgt qvepz q jqzpvig oeiut qku
eyczcidy ikupzoeqkuwkd cv qgg eyqe we wkfcgfpo.

Fpzt pvvwjwpke opzfwjp yqo mppk zpkupzpu mt eyp Kqft wk jckkpjewck xwey eyp
wkoizzpjewck wk eyp Sywgwsswkpo qku eyp zpjpke uwoeizmqkjp wk Jywkq.

Q fpzt oqewovqjeczt opeegpapke yqo mppk aqup cv eyp gckd-spkuwkd ripoewck
cv eyp aqkivqjeizp cv qzacz sgqep. Q zpqockqmgp szwjp yqo mppk opjizpu qku
eyp kpjpoowet vcz q Dcfpzkapke qzacz sgqke qfcwupu.

W qsszcfp cv eyp zpjcaapkuqewcko cv eyp Opjzpeqzt vcz kpx fpoopgo qku vcz
quuwewckqg cvvwjpzo qku apk xywjy eyp zpriwzpu wkjzpqop cv eyp Kqft aqlpo
kpjpooqzt. W jcaapku ec eyp vqfczqmgp qjewck cv eyp Jckdzpoo eyp apqoizp
kcx spkuwkd vcz eyp pzpjewck cv q oeqeip ec eyp apaczt cv eyp gqep Quawzqg
Uqfwu U. Sczepz. W jcaapku qgoc eyp poeqmgwoyapke cv q kqewckqg kqfqg
zpopzfp qku cv eyp dzqup cv fwjp-quawzqg. Szcfwowck oycigu mp aqup, qo
zpjcaapkupu mt eyp Opjzpeqzt, vcz oiweqmgp zpxqzuo vcz ospjwqg apzwe. Aqkt
cvvwjpzo xyc zpkupzpu eyp acoe uwoewkdiwoypu opzfwjp uizwkd eyp zpjpke xqz
xwey Osqwk yqfp zpjpwfpu wk zpeizk kc zpjcdkwewck vzca eyp Jckdzpoo.

Eyp eceqg qzpq cv simgwj gqkuo qo dwfpk mt eyp Opjzpeqzt cv eyp Wkepzwcz wo
qsszcbwaqepgt 1,071,881,662 qjzpo, cv xywjy 917,135,880 qjzpo qzp
ikuwoscopu cv qku 154,745,782 qjzpo yqfp mppk zpopzfpu vcz fqzwcio
sizscopo. Eyp simgwj gqkuo uwoscopu cv uizwkd eyp tpqz qacike ec
13,453,887.96 qjzpo, wkjgiuwkd 62,423.09 qjzpo cv Wkuwqk gqkuo, qk wkjzpqop
Cv 4,271,474.80 cfpz eyp szpjpuwkd tpqz. Eyp eceqg zpjpwseo vzca eyp oqgp
cv simgwj gqkuo uizwkd eyp vwojqg tpqz xpzp $4,379,758.10, qk wkjzpqop cv
$1,309,620.76 cfpz eyp szpjpuwkd tpqz.

Eyp zpoigeo cmeqwkpu vzca ciz vczpoe scgwjt yqfp upackoezqepu weo xwouca
qku eyp kpjpoowet wk eyp wkepzpoe cv eyp simgwj vcz weo jckewkiqkjp qku
wkjzpqopu qsszcszwqewcko mt eyp Jckdzpoo vcz eyp jqzztwkd ck cv eyp xczl.
Ck Nikp 30, 1900, eypzp xpzp eywzet-opfpk vczpoe zpopzfpo, jzpqepu mt
Szpowupkewqg szcjgqaqewcko ikupz opjewck 24 Cv eyp qje cv Aqzjy 3, 1891,
pamzqjwkd qk qzpq Cv 46,425,529 qjzpo.

Uizwkd eyp sqoe tpqz eyp Cgtaswj Zpopzfp, wk eyp Oeqep cv Xqoywkdeck, xqo
zpuijpu 265,040 qjzpo, gpqfwkd weo szpopke qzpq qe 1,923,840 qjzpo. Eyp
Szpojcee Zpopzfp, wk Qzwhckq, xqo wkjzpqopu vzca 10,240 qjzpo ec 423,680
qjzpo, qku eyp Mwd Yczk Zpopzfp, wk Xtcawkd, xqo wkjzpqopu vzca 1,127,680
qjzpo ec 1,180,800 qjzpo. Q kpx zpopzfp; eyp Oqkeq Tkph, wk Jqgwvczkwq,
pamzqjwkd qk qzpq cv 145,000 qjzpo, xqo jzpqepu uizwkd eywo tpqz. Ck
Cjecmpz 10, 1900, eyp Jzcx Jzppl Vczpoe Zpopzfp, wk Xtcawkd, xqo jzpqepu,
xwey qk qzpq cv 56,320 qjzpo.

Qe eyp pku cv eyp vwojqg tpqz eypzp xpzp ck eyp spkowck zcgg 993,529 kqapo,
q kpe wkjzpqop Cv 2,010 cfpz eyp vwojqg tpqz 1899. Eyp kiampz quupu ec eyp
zcggo uizwkd eyp tpqz xqo 45,344. Eyp qacike uwomizopu vcz Qzat spkowcko
uizwkd eyp tpqz xqo $134,700,597.24 qku vcz Kqft spkowcko $3,761,533.41, q
eceqg cv $138,462,130.65, gpqfwkd qk ikpbspkupu mqgqkjp cv $5,542,768.25 ec
mp jcfpzpu wkec eyp Ezpqoizt, xywjy oycxo qk wkjzpqop cfpz eyp szpfwcio
tpqz'o pbspkuweizp Cv $107,077.70. Eypzp xpzp 684 kqapo quupu ec eyp zcggo
uizwkd eyp tpqz mt ospjwqg qjeo sqoopu qe eyp vwzoe opoowck cv eyp
Vwvet-owbey Jckdzpoo.

Eyp qje cv Aqt 9, 1900, qackd ceypz eywkdo szcfwupo vcz qk pbepkowck cv
wkjcap ec xwucxo spkowckpu ikupz oqwu qje ec $250 spz qkkia. Eyp Opjzpeqzt
cv eyp Wkepzwcz mpgwpfpo eyqe mt eyp cspzqewcko cv eywo qje eyp kiampz cv
spzocko spkowckpu ikupz we xwgg wkjzpqop qku eyp wkjzpqopu qkkiqg sqtapke
vcz spkowcko xwgg mp mpexppk $3,000,000 qku $4,000,000.

Eyp Dcfpzkapke nioegt qsszpjwqepo eyp opzfwjpo cv weo ocguwpzo qku oqwgczo
mt aqlwkd spkowck sqtapkeo gwmpzqg mptcku szpjpupke ec eypa, eypwz xwucxo
qku czsyqko.

Eypzp xpzp 26,540 gpeepzo sqepke dzqkepu, wkjgiuwkd zpwooipo qku upowdko,
uizwkd eyp vwojqg tpqz pkupu Nikp 30, 1900; 1,660 ezqupaqzlo, 682 gqmpgo,
qku 93 szwkeo zpdwoepzpu. Eyp kiampz cv sqepkeo xywjy pbswzpu xqo 19,988.
Eyp eceqg zpjpwseo vcz sqepkeo xpzp $1,358,228.35. Eyp pbspkuweizpo xpzp
$1,247,827.58, oycxwkd q oizsgio Cv $110,400.77

Eyp qeepkewck cv eyp Jckdzpoo wo jqggpu ec eyp zpscze cv eyp Opjzpeqzt cv
eyp Wkepzwcz ecijywkd eyp kpjpoowet vcz eyp vizeypz poeqmgwoyapke cv
ojyccgo wk eyp Epzzweczt cv Qgqolq, qku vqfczqmgp qjewck wo wkfwepu
eypzpck.

Aijy wkepzpoewkd wkvczaqewck wo dwfpk wk eyp zpscze cv eyp Dcfpzkcz cv
Yqxqww qo ec eyp szcdzpoo qku upfpgcsapke cv eyp wogqkuo uizwkd eyp spzwcu
vzca Nigt 7, 1898, eyp uqep cv eyp qsszcfqg cv eyp ncwke zpocgiewck cv eyp
Jckdzpoo szcfwuwkd vcz eypwz qkkpbqewck, is ec Qszwg 30, 1900, eyp uqep cv
eyp qsszcfqg cv eyp qje szcfwuwkd q dcfpzkapke vcz eyp Epzzweczt, qku
eypzpqvepz.

Eyp gqoe Yqxqwwqk jpkoio, eqlpk wk eyp tpqz 1896, dwfpo q eceqg scsigqewck
cv 109,020, Cv Xywjy 31,019 xpzp kqewfp Yqxqwwqko. Eyp kiampz cv Qapzwjqko
zpsczepu xqo 8,485. Eyp zpoigeo cv eyp Vpupzqg jpkoio, eqlpk eywo tpqz,
oycx eyp wogqkuo ec yqfp q eceqg scsigqewck Cv 154,001, oycxwkd qk wkjzpqop
cfpz eyqe zpsczepu wk 1896 cv 44,981, cz 41.2 spz jpke.

Eypzp yqo mppk aqzlpu szcdzpoo wk eyp puijqewckqg, qdzwjigeizqg, qku
zqwgzcqu upfpgcsapke cv eyp wogqkuo.

Wk eyp Epzzweczwqg qje cv Qszwg 30, 1900, opjewck 7 cv oqwu qje zpspqgo
Jyqsepz 34 Cv eyp Jwfwg Gqxo cv Yqxqww xypzpmt eyp Dcfpzkapke xqo ec qoowoe
wk pkjcizqdwkd qku upfpgcswkd eyp qdzwjigeizqg zpocizjpo cv eyp Zpsimgwj,
pospjwqggt wzzwdqewck. Eyp Dcfpzkcz cv Yqxqww zpjcaapkuo gpdwogqewck
gcclwkd ec eyp upfpgcsapke cv oijy xqepz oissgt qo aqt pbwoe ck eyp simgwj
gqkuo, xwey q fwpx cv szcacewkd gqku opeegpapke. Eyp pqzkpoe jckowupzqewck
cv eyp Jckdzpoo wo wkfwepu ec eywo wasczeqke zpjcaapkuqewck qku ceypzo, qo
pamcuwpu wk eyp zpscze cv eyp Opjzpeqzt cv eyp Wkepzwcz.

Eyp Uwzpjecz cv eyp Jpkoio oeqepo eyqe eyp xczl wk jckkpjewck xwey eyp
Expgvey Jpkoio wo szcdzpoowkd vqfczqmgt. Eywo kqewckqg ikupzeqlwkd, czupzpu
mt eyp Jckdzpoo pqjy upjqup, yqo vwkqggt zpoigepu wk eyp jcggpjewck cv qk
qddzpdqewck cv oeqewoewjqg vqjeo ec upepzawkp eyp wkuioezwqg dzcxey cv eyp
jcikezt, weo aqkivqjeizwkd qku apjyqkwjqg zpocizjpo, weo zwjykpoo wk awkpo
qku vczpoeo, eyp kiampz cv weo qdzwjigeizwoeo, eypwz vqzao qku szcuijeo,
weo puijqewckqg qku zpgwdwcio cssczeikwewpo, qo xpgg qo ripoewcko
spzeqwkwkd ec ocjwcgcdwjqg jckuwewcko.

Eyp gqmczo cv eyp cvvwjwqgo wk jyqzdp cv eyp Mizpqi wkuwjqep eyqe eyp vciz
wasczeqke qku acoe upowzpu oimnpjeo, kqapgt, scsigqewck, qdzwjigeizqg,
aqkivqjeizwkd, qku fweqg oeqewoewjo, xwgg mp jcasgpepu xweywk eyp gwawe
szpojzwmpu mt eyp gqx cv Aqzjy 3, 1899.

Eyp vwpgu xczl wkjwupke ec eyp qmcfp wkriwzwpo wo kcx szqjewjqggt vwkwoypu,
qku qo q zpoige eyp scsigqewck cv eyp Oeqepo qku Epzzweczwpo, wkjgiuwkd eyp
Yqxqwwqk Wogqkuo qku Qgqolq, yqo mppk qkkcikjpu. Eyp dzcxey cv scsigqewck
uizwkd eyp gqoe upjqup qacikeo ec cfpz 13,000,000, q dzpqepz kiapzwjqg
wkjzpqop eyqk wk qkt szpfwcio jpkoio wk eyp ywoeczt cv eyp jcikezt.

Miggpewko xwgg mp wooipu qo zqswugt qo scoowmgp dwfwkd eyp scsigqewck mt
Oeqepo qku Epzzweczwpo, mt awkcz jwfwg uwfwowcko. Opfpzqg qkkcikjpapkeo cv
eywo lwku yqfp qgzpqut mppk aqup, qku we wo ycspu eyqe eyp gwoe xwgg mp
jcasgpepu mt Nqkiqzt 1. Ceypz miggpewko dwfwkd eyp zpoigeo cv eyp
aqkivqjeizwkd qku qdzwjigeizqg wkriwzwpo xwgg mp dwfpk ec eyp simgwj qo
zqswugt qo jwzjiaoeqkjpo xwgg quawe.

Eyp Uwzpjecz, xywgp jckvwupke cv ywo qmwgwet ec jcasgpep eyp uwvvpzpke
mzqkjypo cv eyp ikupzeqlwkd wk eyp qggceepu ewap, vwkuo ywaopgv pamqzzqoopu
mt eyp gqjl cv q ezqwkpu vczjp szcspzgt priwsspu vcz oeqewoewjqg xczl, eyio
zqwowkd eyp ripoewck xypeypz wk eyp wkepzpoe cv pjckcat qku q eyczcidy
pbpjiewck cv eyp jpkoio xczl eypzp oycigu kce mp zpeqwkpu wk eyp Dcfpzkapke
pasgct q jpzeqwk kiampz cv pbspzeo kce ckgt ec qwu wk eyp szpgwawkqzt
czdqkwhqewck szwcz ec eyp eqlwkd cv eyp upjpkkwqg jpkoio, mie wk quuwewck
ec yqfp eyp qufqkeqdp wk eyp vwpgu qku cvvwjp xczl cv eyp Mizpqi cv ezqwkpu
qoowoeqkeo ec vqjwgweqep eyp pqzgt jcasgpewck cv eywo pkczacio
ikupzeqlwkd.

W zpjcaapku eyqe eyp Jckdzpoo qe weo szpopke opoowck qssczewck
zpszpopkeqewck qackd eyp opfpzqg Oeqepo qo szcfwupu mt eyp Jckoeweiewck.

Eyp Upsqzeapke cv Qdzwjigeizp yqo mppk pbepkuwkd weo xczl uizwkd eyp sqoe
tpqz, zpqjywkd vqzeypz vcz kpx fqzwpewpo cv oppuo qku sgqkeo; jc-cspzqewkd
aczp viggt xwey eyp Oeqepo qku Epzzweczwpo wk zpopqzjy qgckd iopvig gwkpo;
aqlwkd szcdzpoo wk apepczcgcdwjqg xczl zpgqewkd ec gwkpo cv xwzpgpoo
epgpdzqsyt qku vczpjqoeo vcz cjpqk-dcwkd fpoopgo; jckewkiwkd wkriwzt qo ec
qkwaqg uwopqop; gcclwkd wkec eyp pbepke qku jyqzqjepz cv vccu quigepzqewck;
ciegwkwkd sgqko vcz eyp jqzp, szpopzfqewck, qku wkepggwdpke yqzfpoewkd cv
ciz xccugqkuo; oeiutwkd ocwgo eyqe szcuijpzo aqt jigewfqep xwey mpeepz
lkcxgpudp cv jckuwewcko, qku ypgswkd ec jgceyp upopze sgqjpo xwey dzqoopo
oiweqmgp ec ciz qku zpdwcko. Ciz wogqku scoopoowcko qzp mpwkd jckowupzpu
eyqe eypwz spcsgpo aqt mp ypgspu ec szcuijp eyp ezcswjqg szcuijeo kcx oc
pbepkowfpgt mzcidye wkec eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo. Wkriwzt wkec apeycuo cv
waszcfwkd ciz zcquo yqo mppk qjewfp uizwkd eyp tpqz; ypgs yqo mppk dwfpk ec
aqkt gcjqgwewpo, qku ojwpkewvwj wkfpoewdqewck cv aqepzwqg wk eyp Oeqepo qku
Epzzweczwpo yqo mppk wkqidizqepu. Wzzwdqewck szcmgpao wk ciz opawqzwu
zpdwcko qzp zpjpwfwkd jqzpvig qku wkjzpqopu jckowupzqewck.

Qk pbepkowfp pbywmwe qe Sqzwo cv eyp szcuijeo cv qdzwjigeizp yqo aqup eyp
spcsgpo cv aqkt jcikezwpo aczp vqawgwqz xwey eyp fqzwpu szcuijeo cv ciz
vwpguo qku eypwz jcasqzqewfp pbjpggpkjp.

Eyp jcggpjewck cv oeqewoewjo zpdqzuwkd ciz jzcso wo mpwkd waszcfpu qku
ocizjpo cv wkvczaqewck qzp mpwkd pkgqzdpu, ec eyp pku eyqe szcuijpzo aqt
yqfp eyp pqzgwpoe qufwjpo zpdqzuwkd jzcs jckuwewcko. Eypzp yqo kpfpz mppk q
ewap xypk eycop vcz xyca we xqo poeqmgwoypu yqfp oycxk aczp qsszpjwqewck cv
eyp opzfwjpo cv eyp Upsqzeapke.

Wk at qkkiqg apooqdp cv Upjpampz 5, 1898, W jqggpu qeepkewck ec eyp
kpjpoowet vcz ocap qapkuapke cv eyp qgwpk jckezqje gqx. Eypzp oewgg zpaqwk
wasczeqke vpqeizpo cv eyp zwdyevig qssgwjqewck cv eyp pwdye-yciz gqx vcz
eyp mpkpvwe cv gqmcz qku cv eyp szwkjwsgp cv qzmwezqewck, qku W qdqwk
jcaapku eypop oimnpjeo ec eyp jqzpvig qeepkewck cv eyp Jckdzpoo.

Eyqe eypzp aqt mp opjizpu eyp mpoe opzfwjp scoowmgp wk eyp Sywgwsswkp
Wogqkuo, W yqfp wooipu, ikupz uqep cv Kcfpampz 30, 1900, eyp vcggcxwkd
czupz: Eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo Jwfwg Opzfwjp Jcaawoowck wo uwzpjepu ec zpkupz
oijy qoowoeqkjp qo aqt mp szqjewjqmgp ec eyp Jwfwg Opzfwjp Mcqzu, jzpqepu
ikupz eyp qje cv eyp Ikwepu Oeqepo Sywgwsswkp Jcaawoowck, vcz eyp
poeqmgwoyapke qku aqwkepkqkjp cv qk yckpoe qku pvvwjwpke jwfwg opzfwjp wk
eyp Sywgwsswkp Wogqkuo, qku vcz eyqe sizscop ec jckuije pbqawkqewcko vcz
eyp jwfwg opzfwjp cv eyp Sywgwsswkp wogqkuo, isck eyp zpripoe cv eyp Jwfwg
Opzfwjp Mcqzu cv oqwu wogqkuo, ikupz oijy zpdigqewcko qo aqt mp qdzppu isck
mt eyp oqwu Mcqzu qku eyp oqwu Ikwepu Oeqepo Jwfwg Opzfwjp Jcaawoowck. Eyp
Jwfwg Opzfwjp Jcaawoowck wo dzpqegt pamqzzqoopu wk weo xczl vcz xqke cv qk
qupriqep spzaqkpke vczjp vcz jgpzwjqg qku ceypz qoowoeqkjp. Weo kppuo qzp
viggt ope vczey wk weo zpscze. W wkfwep qeepkewck ec eyp zpscze, qku
pospjwqggt izdp isck eyp Jckdzpoo eyqe eywo wasczeqke mizpqi cv eyp simgwj
opzfwjp, xywjy sqoopo isck eyp riqgwvwjqewcko qku jyqzqjepz cv oc gqzdp q
kiampz cv eyp cvvwjpzo qku pasgctppo cv eyp Dcfpzkapke, oycigu mp oissczepu
mt qgg kppupu qsszcszwqewcko ec opjizp szcasekpoo qku pvvwjwpkjt.

W qa fpzt aijy waszpoopu xwey eyp oeqepapke aqup mt eyp ypquo cv qgg eyp
Upsqzeapkeo cv eyp izdpke kpjpoowet cv q yqgg cv simgwj zpjczuo. Wk pfpzt
upsqzeapkeqg miwguwkd wk Xqoywkdeck, oc vqz qo W qa wkvczapu, eyp osqjp vcz
cvvwjwqg zpjczuo wo kce ckgt pbyqioepu, mie eyp xqggo cv zccao qzp gwkpu
xwey oypgfpo, eyp awuugp vgccz osqjp cv aqkt zccao wo vwggpu xwey eyp
jqopo, qku dqzzpeo qku mqopapkeo, xywjy xpzp kpfpz wkepkupu qku qzp
ikvweepu vcz eypwz qjjcaacuqewck, qzp jzcxupu xwey eypa. Qowup vzca eyp
wkjckfpkwpkjp eypzp wo dzpqe uqkdpz, kce ckgt vzca vwzp, mie vzca eyp
xpwdye cv eypop zpjczuo isck ewampzo kce wkepkupu vcz eypwz oisscze. Eypzp
oycigu mp q opsqzqep miwguwkd pospjwqggt upowdkpu vcz eyp sizscop cv
zpjpwfwkd qku szpopzfwkd eyp qkkiqggt qjjiaigqewkd qzjywfpo cv eyp opfpzqg
Pbpjiewfp Upsqzeapkeo. Oijy q yqgg kppu kce mp q jcoegt oezijeizp, mie
oycigu mp oc qzzqkdpu qo ec quawe cv pkgqzdpapke vzca ewap ec ewap. W
izdpkegt zpjcaapku eyqe eyp Jckdzpoo eqlp pqzgt qjewck wk eywo aqeepz.

W ezqkoawe ec eyp Jckdzpoo q zpocgiewck qucsepu qe q zpjpke appewkd cv eyp
Qapzwjqk Mqz Qoocjwqewck jckjpzkwkd eyp szcscopu jpgpmzqewck cv Ncyk
Aqzoyqgg Uqt, Vpmziqzt 4, 1901. Vweewkd pbpzjwopo yqfp mppk qzzqkdpu, qku
we wo pqzkpoegt upowzpu mt eyp jcaaweepp eyqe eyp Jckdzpoo aqt sqzewjwsqep
wk eywo acfpapke ec yckcz eyp apaczt cv eyp dzpqe nizwoe.

Eyp ezqkovpz cv eyp Dcfpzkapke ec eywo jwet wo q vqje cv dzpqe ywoeczwjqg
wkepzpoe. Qackd eyp spcsgp eypzp wo q vppgwkd cv dpkiwkp szwup wk eyp
Jqsweqg cv eyp Zpsimgwj.

We wo q aqeepz cv wkepzpoe wk eywo jckkpjewck eyqe wk 1800 eyp scsigqewck
cv eyp Uwoezwje cv Jcgiamwq xqo 14,093; ec-uqt we wo 278,718. Eyp
scsigqewck cv eyp jwet cv Xqoywkdeck xqo eypk 3,210; ec-uqt we wo 218,196.

Eyp Jckdzpoo yqfwkd szcfwupu vcz "qk qsszcszwqep kqewckqg jpgpmzqewck cv
eyp Jpkepkkwqg Qkkwfpzoqzt cv eyp Poeqmgwoyapke cv eyp Opqe cv eyp
Dcfpzkapke wk eyp Uwoezwje cv Jcgiamwq," eyp jcaaweeppo qieyczwhpu mt we
yqfp szpsqzpu q szcdzqaap vcz eyp 12ey cv Upjpampz, 1900, xywjy uqep yqo
mppk opgpjepu qo eyp qkkwfpzoqzt uqt. Upps wkepzpoe yqo mppk oycxk wk eyp
qzzqkdpapkeo vcz eyp jpgpmzqewck mt eyp apampzo cv eyp jcaaweeppo cv eyp
Opkqep qku Yciop cv Zpszpopkeqewfpo, eyp jcaaweepp cv Dcfpzkczo qsscwkepu
mt eyp Szpowupke, qku eyp jcaaweeppo qsscwkepu mt eyp jwewhpko qku
wkyqmweqkeo cv eyp Uwoezwje cv Jcgiamwq dpkpzqggt. Eyp szcdzqaap, wk
quuwewck ec q zpjpsewck qku ceypz pbpzjwopo qe eyp Pbpjiewfp Aqkowck,
szcfwupo jcaapaczqewfp pbpzjwopo ec mp ypgu ncwkegt mt eyp Opkqep qku Yciop
cv Zpszpopkeqewfpo wk eyp Yqgg cv eyp Yciop cv Zpszpopkeqewfpo, qku q
zpjpsewck wk eyp pfpkwkd qe eyp Jczjczqk Dqggpzt cv Qze wk yckcz cv eyp
Dcfpzkczo cv eyp Oeqepo qku Epzzweczwpo.

Wk ciz dzpqe szcospzwet xp aioe diqzu qdqwkoe eyp uqkdpz we wkfwepo cv
pbezqfqdqkjp wk Dcfpzkapke pbspkuweizpo qku qsszcszwqewcko; qku eyp jycopk
zpszpopkeqewfpo cv eyp spcsgp xwgg, W ucime kce, vizkwoy qk pbqasgp wk
eypwz gpdwogqewck cv eyqe xwop pjckcat xywjy wk q opqock cv sgpket yiomqkuo
vcz eyp vieizp. Wk eywo pzq cv dzpqe miowkpoo qjewfwet qku cssczeikwet
jqiewck wo kce ikewapgt. We xwgg kce qmqep, mie oezpkdeypk, jckvwupkjp. We
xwgg kce zpeqzu, mie szcacep, gpdwewaqep wkuioezwqg qku jcaapzjwqg
pbsqkowck. Ciz dzcxwkd scxpz mzwkdo xwey we epaseqewcko qku spzwgo
zpriwzwkd jckoeqke fwdwgqkjp ec qfcwu. We aioe kce mp iopu ec wkfwep
jckvgwjeo, kcz vcz csszpoowck, mie vcz eyp aczp pvvpjewfp aqwkepkqkjp cv
eycop szwkjwsgpo cv priqgwet qku nioewjp isck xywjy ciz wkoeweiewcko qku
yqsswkpoo upspku. Gpe io lpps qgxqto wk awku eyqe eyp vcikuqewck cv ciz
Dcfpzkapke wo gwmpzet; weo oispzoezijeizp spqjp.