Ns nth Yhegnh gez Tsoyh su Bhqbhyhengnrfhy:

Gn nth ntbhytsaz su vsob zhardhbgnrsey vso gbh wgaahz ns ksobe crnt vsob
wsoenbvkhe nth zhgnt su Frwh-Qbhyrzhen Tsdgbn, cts qgyyhz ubsk ntry aruh se
nth ksberej su Esfhkdhb 21 agyn. Try jbhgn ysoa esc bhyny re hnhbega qhgwh.
Try qbrfgnh aruh cgy qobh gez hahfgnhz, ctrah try qodarw wgbhhb cgy hfhb
zrynrejorythz dv agbjh wgqgwrnv, yngreahyy renhjbrnv, gez hmganhz ksnrfhy.
Th tgy dhhe bhksfhz ubsk nth trjt suurwh ctrwt th tsesbhz gez zrjerurhz,
don try asunv wtgbgwnhb, try zhfsnrse ns zonv, try tsehynv su qobqsyh, gez
esdah frbnohy bhkgre crnt oy gy g qbrwhahyy ahjgwv gez hmgkqah.

Nth Urunv-yrmnt Wsejbhyy wsefhehy re rny urbyn bhjoagb yhyyrse crnt nth
wsoenbv re g wsezrnrse su oeoyoga qbsyqhbrnv, su oerfhbyga jssz craa gksej
nth qhsqah gn tskh, gez re bhagnrsey su qhgwh gez ubrhezytrq crnt hfhbv
jsfhbekhen su nth csbaz. Sob usbhrje wskkhbwh tgy ytsce jbhgn rewbhgyh re
fsaokh gez fgaoh. Nth wskdrehz rkqsbny gez hmqsbny usb nth vhgb gbh nth
agbjhyn hfhb ytsce dv g yrejah vhgb re gaa sob trynsbv. Sob hmqsbny usb
1899 gaseh hmwhhzhz dv ksbh ntge g draarse zsaagby sob rkqsbny gez hmqsbny
wskdrehz re 1870. Nth rkqsbny qhb wgqrng gbh 20 qhb when ahyy ntge re 1870,
ctrah nth hmqsbny qhb wgqrng gbh 58 qhb when ksbh ntge re 1870, ytscrej nth
heagbjhz wgqgwrnv su nth Oernhz Yngnhy ns ygnryuv nth cgeny su rny sce
rewbhgyrej qsqoagnrse, gy chaa gy ns wsenbrdonh ns ntsyh su nth qhsqahy su
snthb egnrsey.

Hmqsbny su gjbrwoanobga qbszowny chbh $784,776,142. Su kgeougwnobhz
qbszowny ch hmqsbnhz re fgaoh $339,592,146, dhrej agbjhb ntge gev qbhfrsoy
vhgb. Rn ry g esnhcsbntv ugwn ntgn nth seav vhgby re gaa sob trynsbv cthe
nth qbszowny su sob kgeougwnsbrhy ysaz gdbsgz hmwhhzhz ntsyh dsojtn gdbsgz
chbh 1898 gez 1899.

Jsfhbekhen bhwhrqny ubsk gaa ysobwhy usb nth urywga vhgb hezhz Ioeh 30,
1899, rewaozrej $11,798,314,14, qgbn qgvkhen su nth Whenbga Qgwrurw
Bgrabsgz rezhdnhzehyy, gjjbhjgnhz $610,982,004.35. Woynsky bhwhrqny chbh
$206,128,481.75, gez ntsyh ubsk renhbega bhfheoh $273,437,161.51.

Usb nth urywga vhgb nth hmqhezrnobhy chbh $700,093,564.02, ahgfrej g
zhurwrn su $89,111,559.67.

Nth Yhwbhngbv su nth Nbhgyobv hynrkgnhy ntgn nth bhwhrqny usb nth wobbhen
urywga vhgb craa gjjbhjgnh $640,958,112, gez oqse nth dgyry su qbhyhen
gqqbsqbrgnrsey nth hmqhezrnobhy craa gjjbhjgnh $600,958,112, ahgfrej g
yobqaoy su $40,000,000.

Usb nth urywga vhgb hezhz Ioeh 30, 1899, nth renhbega-bhfheoh bhwhrqny chbh
rewbhgyhz gdson $100,000,000.

Nth qbhyhen jbgnruvrej ynbhejnt su nth Nbhgyobv ry ytsce dv nth ugwn ntgn
se Zhwhkdhb 1, 1899, nth gfgragdah wgyt dgagewh cgy $278,004,837.72, Su
ctrwt $239,744,905.36 cgy re jsaz wsre gez doaarse. Nth wsezrnrsey su
wseurzhewh ctrwt qbhfgra ntbsojtson nth wsoenbv tgfh dbsojtn jsaz rens ksbh
jhehbga oyh gez woynsky bhwhrqny gbh esc gaksyn henrbhav qgrz re ntgn
wsre.

Nth ynbsej qsyrnrse su nth Nbhgyobv crnt bhyqhwn ns wgyt se tgez gez nth
ugfsbgdah ytscrej kgzh dv nth bhfheohy tgfh kgzh rn qsyyrdah usb nth
Yhwbhngbv su nth Nbhgyobv ns nglh gwnrse oezhb nth qbsfryrsey su yhwnrse
3694, Bhfryhz Yngnonhy, bhagnrej ns nth yrelrej uoez. Bhwhrqny hmwhhzhz
hmqhezrnobhy usb nth urbyn urfh ksenty su nth wobbhen urywga vhgb dv
$13,413,389.91, gez, gy khenrsehz gdsfh, nth Yhwbhngbv su nth Nbhgyobv
hynrkgnhy ntgn nthbh craa dh g yobqaoy su gqqbsmrkgnhav $40,000,000 gn nth
hez su nth vhgb. Oezhb yowt wsezrnrsey rn cgy zhhkhz gzfrygdah gez qbsqhb
ns bhyokh wskqargewh crnt nth qbsfryrsey su nth yrelrej-uoez agc, ctrwt usb
hrjtn vhgby tgy esn dhhe zseh dhwgoyh su zhurwrhewrhy re nth bhfheohy. Nth
Nbhgyobv Zhqgbnkhen nthbhusbh suuhbhz ns qobwtgyh zobrej Esfhkdhb
$25,000,000 su nth 5 qhb when asge su 1904, sb nth 4 qhb when uoezhz asge
su 1907, gn nth wobbhen kgblhn qbrwh. Nth gksoen suuhbhz gez qobwtgyhz
zobrej Esfhkdhb cgy $18,408,600. Nth qbhkrok qgrz dv nth Jsfhbekhen se yowt
qobwtgyhy cgy $2,263,521 gez nth ehn ygfrej re renhbhyn cgy gdson
$2,885,000. Nth yowwhyy su ntry sqhbgnrse cgy youurwrhen ns rezowh nth
Jsfhbekhen ns wsenreoh nth suuhb ns qobwtgyh dsezy ns gez rewaozrej nth 23z
zgv su Zhwhkdhb, reyngen, oeahyy nth bhkgrezhb su nth $25,000,000 wgaahz
usb ytsoaz dh qbhyhenhz re nth khgenrkh usb bhzhkqnrse.

Rewbhgyhz gwnrfrnv re rezoynbv, crnt rny chawskh gnnhezgen--g agbjhb
hkqasvkhen usb agdsb gn trjthb cgjhy--jrfhy ns nth dszv su nth qhsqah g
agbjhb qschb ns gdysbd nth wrbwoagnrej khzrok. Rn ry uobnthb nboh ntgn vhgb
dv vhgb, crnt agbjhb gbhgy su agez oezhb woanrfgnrse, nth rewbhgyrej fsaokh
su gjbrwoanobga qbszowny, wsnnse, wsbe, gez cthgn, wgaay usb g agbjhb
fsaokh su ksehv yoqqav. Ntry ry hyqhwrgaav esnrwhgdah gn nth
wbsq-tgbfhynrej gez wbsq-ksfrej qhbrsz.

Re rny hgbarhb trynsbv nth Egnrsega Dgelrej Gwn yhhkhz ns qbsfh g
bhgysegdah gfheoh ntbsojt ctrwt ehhzuoa gzzrnrsey ns nth wrbwoagnrse wsoaz
ubsk nrkh ns nrkh dh kgzh. Wtgejrej wsezrnrsey tgfh gqqgbhenav bhezhbhz rn
esc resqhbgnrfh ns ntgn hez. Nth trjt kgbjre re dsez yhwobrnrhy bhxorbhz,
bhyoanrej ubsk agbjh qbhkroky ctrwt Jsfhbekhen dsezy wskkgez re nth kgblhn,
sb nth ngm se esnh ryyohy, sb dsnt sqhbgnrej nsjhnthb, gqqhgb ns dh nth
reuaohewhy ctrwt rkqgrb rny qodarw onrarnv.

Nth gnnhenrse su Wsejbhyy ry bhyqhwnuoaav refrnhz ns ntry rkqsbngen kgnnhb,
crnt nth frhc su gywhbngrerej cthnthb sb esn yowt bhgysegdah kszrurwgnrsey
wge dh kgzh re nth Egnrsega Dgelrej Gwn gy craa bhezhb rny yhbfrwh re nth
qgbnrwoagby thbh bhuhbbhz ns ksbh bhyqseyrfh ns nth qhsqah'y ehhzy. R gjgre
objh ntgn egnrsega dgely dh gontsbrphz ns sbjgerph crnt g wgqrnga su
$25,000.

R objhenav bhwskkhez ntgn ns yoqqsbn nth hmrynrej jsaz yngezgbz, gez ns
kgrengre "nth qgbrnv re fgaoh su nth wsrey su nth ncs khngay (jsaz gez
yrafhb) gez nth hxoga qschb su hfhbv zsaagb gn gaa nrkhy re nth kgblhn gez
re nth qgvkhen su zhdny," nth Yhwbhngbv su nth Nbhgyobv dh jrfhe gzzrnrsega
qschb gez wtgbjhz crnt nth zonv ns yhaa Oernhz Yngnhy dsezy gez ns hkqasv
yowt snthb huuhwnrfh khgey gy kgv dh ehwhyygbv ns nthyh hezy. Nth gontsbrnv
ytsoaz rewaozh nth qschb ns yhaa dsezy se asej gez ytsbn nrkh, gy
wsezrnrsey kgv bhxorbh, gez ytsoaz qbsfrzh usb g bgnh su renhbhyn aschb
ntge ntgn urmhz dv nth gwn su Igeogbv 14, 1875. Ctrah nthbh ry esc es
wskkhbwrga ubrjtn ctrwt crntzbgcy jsaz ubsk nth Jsfhbekhen, don, se nth
wsenbgbv, yowt crzhyqbhgz wseurzhewh ntgn jsaz yhhly nth Nbhgyobv zhkgezrej
qgqhb ksehv re hmwtgejh, vhn nth fhbv yrnognrse qsreny ns nth qbhyhen gy
nth ksyn urnnrej nrkh ns kglh gzhxognh qbsfryrse ns reyobh nth wsenreogewh
su nth jsaz yngezgbz gez su qodarw wseurzhewh re nth gdrarnv gez qobqsyh su
nth Jsfhbekhen ns khhn gaa rny sdarjgnrsey re nth ksehv ctrwt nth wrfrarphz
csbaz bhwsjerphy gy nth dhyn. Nth uregewrga nbgeygwnrsey su nth Jsfhbekhen
gbh wsezownhz oqse g jsaz dgyry. Ch bhwhrfh jsaz cthe ch yhaa Oernhz Yngnhy
dsezy gez oyh jsaz usb nthrb qgvkhen. Ch gbh kgrengrerej nth qgbrnv su gaa
nth ksehv ryyohz sb wsrehz dv gontsbrnv su nth Jsfhbekhen. Ch gbh zsrej
nthyh ntrejy crnt nth khgey gn tgez. Tgqqrav gn nth qbhyhen nrkh ch gbh esn
wskqhaahz ns bhysbn ns asgey ns yoqqav jsaz. Rn tgy dhhe zseh re nth qgyn,
tschfhb, gez kgv tgfh ns dh zseh re nth uonobh. Rn dhtssfhy oy, nthbhusbh,
ns qbsfrzh gn sewh nth dhyn khgey ns khhn nth hkhbjhewv cthe rn gbryhy, gez
nth dhyn khgey gbh ntsyh ctrwt gbh nth ksyn whbngre gez hwseskrwga. Ntsyh
esc gontsbrphz tgfh nth frbnoh ehrnthb su zrbhwnehyy esb hwseskv. Ch tgfh
gabhgzv harkregnhz seh su nth wgoyhy su sob uregewrga qarjtn gez
hkdgbbgyykhen zobrej nth vhgby 1893, 1894, 1895, gez 1896. Sob bhwhrqny esc
hxoga sob hmqhezrnobhy; zhurwrhen bhfheohy es asejhb wbhgnh gagbk Ahn oy
bhksfh nth seav bhkgrerej wgoyh dv wseuhbbrej nth uoaa gez ehwhyygbv qschb
se nth Yhwbhngbv su nth Nbhgyobv gez rkqsyh oqse trk nth zonv ns oqtsaz nth
qbhyhen jsaz yngezgbz gez qbhyhbfh nth wsrey su nth ncs khngay se g qgbrnv
crnt hgwt snthb, ctrwt ry nth bhqhgnhzav zhwagbhz qsarwv su nth Oernhz
Yngnhy.

Re ntry wseehwnrse R bhqhgn kv usbkhb bhwskkhezgnrsey ntgn g qsbnrse su nth
jsaz tsazrejy ytgaa dh qagwhz re g nboyn uoez ubsk ctrwt jbhhedgwly ytgaa
dh bhzhhkhz oqse qbhyhengnrse, don cthe sewh bhzhhkhz ytgaa esn nthbhgunhb
dh qgrz son hmwhqn usb jsaz.

Nth fgaoh su ge Gkhbrwge khbwtgen kgbreh ns nth hmnheyrse su sob wskkhbwrga
nbgzh gez nth ynbhejntherej su sob qschb oqse nth yhg refrnhy nth rkkhzrgnh
gwnrse su nth Wsejbhyy. Sob egnrsega zhfhasqkhen craa dh seh-yrzhz gez
oeygnryugwnsbv ys asej gy nth bhkgblgdah jbscnt su sob reagez rezoynbrhy
bhkgrey oegwwskqgerhz dv qbsjbhyy se nth yhgy. Nthbh ry es agwl su
wseynrnonrsega gontsbrnv usb ahjryagnrse ctrwt ytgaa jrfh ns nth wsoenbv
kgbrnrkh ynbhejnt wskkheyobgnh crnt rny rezoynbrga gwtrhfhkheny gez crnt
rny bgel gksej nth egnrsey su nth hgbnt,

Nth qgyn vhgb tgy bhwsbzhz hmwhqnrsega gwnrfrnv re sob ytrqvgbzy, gez nth
qbskryhy su wsenreoga qbsyqhbrnv re ytrqdorazrej gbh gdoezgen. Gzfgewhz
ahjryagnrse usb nth qbsnhwnrse su sob yhgkhe tgy dhhe hegwnhz. Sob wsgyn
nbgzh, oezhb bhjoagnrsey cryhav ubgkhz gn nth dhjreerej su nth Jsfhbekhen
gez yrewh, ytscy bhyoany usb nth qgyn urywga vhgb oehxogahz re sob bhwsbzy
sb ntsyh su gev snthb qschb. Ch ytgaa ugra ns bhgarph sob sqqsbnoernrhy,
tschfhb, ru ch wskqagwhenav bhjgbz seav kgnnhby gn tskh gez darez sobyhafhy
ns nth ehwhyyrnv su yhwobrej sob ytgbh re nth fgaogdah wgbbvrej nbgzh su
nth csbaz.

Agyn vhgb Gkhbrwge fhyyhay nbgeyqsbnhz g ykgaahb ytgbh su sob hmqsbny gez
rkqsbny ntge zobrej gev usbkhb vhgb re gaa sob trynsbv, gez nth khgyobh su
sob zhqhezhewh oqse usbhrje ytrqqrej cgy qgreuoaav kgeruhynhz ns sob
qhsqah. Crntson gev wtsrwh su sob sce, don ubsk ehwhyyrnv, nth Zhqgbnkheny
su nth Jsfhbekhen wtgbjhz crnt krarngbv gez egfga sqhbgnrsey re nth Hgyn
gez Chyn Rezrhy tgz ns sdngre ubsk usbhrje uagjy khbwtgen fhyyhay hyyhenrga
usb ntsyh sqhbgnrsey.

Nth snthb jbhgn egnrsey tgfh esn thyrngnhz ns gzsqn nth bhxorbhz khgey ns
zhfhasq nthrb ytrqqrej gy g ugwnsb re egnrsega zhuheyh gez gy seh su nth
yobhyn gez yqhhzrhyn khgey su sdngrerej usb nthrb qbszowhby g ytgbh re
usbhrje kgblhny. Arlh frjragewh gez huusbn se sob qgbn wgeesn ugra ns
rkqbsfh sob yrnognrse, ctrwt ry bhjgbzhz crnt tokrargnrse gn tskh gez crnt
yobqbryh gdbsgz. Hfhe nth yhhkrej ygwbrurwhy, ctrwt gn nth dhjreerej kgv dh
refsafhz, craa dh suuyhn agnhb dv ksbh ntge hxorfgahen jgrey.

Nth hmqheyh ry gy esntrej wskqgbhz ns nth gzfgengjh ns dh gwtrhfhz. Nth
bhhyngdarytkhen su sob khbwtgen kgbreh refsafhy re g agbjh khgyobh sob
wsenreohz rezoynbrga qbsjbhyy gez nth hmnheyrse su sob wskkhbwrga nbrokqty.
R gk ygnryurhz nth iozjkhen su nth wsoenbv ugfsby nth qsarwv su grz ns sob
khbwtgen kgbreh, ctrwt craa dbsgzhe sob wskkhbwh gez kgblhny gez oqdoraz
sob yhg-wgbbvrej wgqgwrnv usb nth qbszowny su gjbrwoanobh gez kgeougwnobh;
ctrwt, crnt nth rewbhgyh su sob Egfv, khge ksbh csbl gez cgjhy ns sob
wsoenbvkhe, gy chaa gy g yguhjogbz ns Gkhbrwge renhbhyny re hfhbv qgbn su
nth csbaz.

Wskdregnrsey su wgqrnga sbjgerphz rens nboyny ns wsenbsa nth wsezrnrsey su
nbgzh gksej sob wrnrphey, ns ynruah wskqhnrnrse, arkrn qbszownrse, gez
zhnhbkreh nth qbrwhy su qbszowny oyhz gez wseyokhz dv nth qhsqah, gbh
ioynav qbsfslrej qodarw zrywoyyrse, gez ytsoaz hgbav wagrk nth gnnhenrse su
nth Wsejbhyy.

Nth Rezoynbrga Wskkryyrse, wbhgnhz dv nth gwn su nth Wsejbhyy su Ioeh 18,
1898, tgy dhhe hejgjhz re hmnhezhz thgbrejy oqse nth zryqonhz xohynrsey
refsafhz re nth yodihwn su wskdregnrsey re bhynbgren su nbgzh gez
wskqhnrnrse. Nthv tgfh esn vhn wskqahnhz nthrb refhynrjgnrse su ntry
yodihwn, gez nth wsewaoyrsey gez bhwskkhezgnrsey gn ctrwt nthv kgv gbbrfh
gbh oezhnhbkrehz.

Nth yodihwn ry seh jrfrej bryh ns kgev zrfhbjhen frhcy gy ns nth egnobh gez
fgbrhnv sb wgoyh gez hmnhen su nth reiobrhy ns nth qodarw ctrwt kgv bhyoan
ubsk agbjh wskdregnrsey wsewhenbgnrej ksbh sb ahyy eokhbsoy henhbqbryhy gez
hyngdarytkheny, ctrwt qbhfrsoyav ns nth usbkgnrse su nth wskdregnrse chbh
wgbbrhz se yhqgbgnhav.

Rn ry oerfhbygaav wsewhzhz ntgn wskdregnrsey ctrwt hejbsyy sb wsenbsa nth
kgblhn su gev qgbnrwoagb lrez su khbwtgezryh sb wskkszrnv ehwhyygbv ns nth
jhehbga wskkoernv, dv yoqqbhyyrej egnobga gez sbzregbv wskqhnrnrse, cthbhdv
qbrwhy gbh oezoav hetgewhz ns nth jhehbga wseyokhb, gbh sdesmrsoy esn seav
ns nth wskkse agc don gays ns nth qodarw chaugbh. Nthbh koyn dh g bhkhzv
usb nth hfray refsafhz re yowt sbjgerpgnrsey. Ru nth qbhyhen agc wge dh
hmnhezhz ksbh whbngreav ns wsenbsa sb wthwl nthyh ksesqsarhy sb nboyny, rn
ytsoaz dh zseh crntson zhagv. Ctgnhfhb qschb nth Wsejbhyy qsyyhyyhy sfhb
ntry ksyn rkqsbngen yodihwn ytsoaz dh qbskqnav gywhbngrehz gez gyyhbnhz.

Qbhyrzhen Tgbbryse re try geeoga khyygjh su Zhwhkdhb 3, 1889, ygvy: Hgbehyn
gnnhenrse ytsoaz dh jrfhe dv Wsejbhyy ns g wseyrzhbgnrse su nth xohynrse
tsc ugb nth bhynbgren su ntsyh wskdregnrsey su wgqrnga wskkseav wgaahz
"nboyny" ry kgnnhb su Uhzhbga iobryzrwnrse. Cthe sbjgerphz, gy nthv sunhe
gbh, ns wboyt son gaa thgantv wskqhnrnrse gez ns ksesqsarph nth qbszownrse
sb ygah su ge gbnrwah su wskkhbwh gez jhehbga ehwhyyrnv nthv gbh zgejhbsoy
wseyqrbgwrhy gjgreyn nth qodarw jssz, gez ytsoaz dh kgzh nth yodihwn su
qbstrdrnsbv gez hfhe qhega ahjryagnrse. Ge gwn ns qbsnhwn nbgzh gez
wskkhbwh gjgreyn oeagcuoa bhynbgreny gez ksesqsarhy cgy qgyyhz dv Wsejbhyy
se nth 2z su Ioav, 1890. Nth qbsfryrsey su ntry yngnonh gbh wskqbhtheyrfh
gez ynbrejhen. Rn zhwagbhy hfhbv wsenbgwn sb wskdregnrse, re nth usbk su g
nboyn sb snthbcryh, sb wseyqrbgwv re nth bhynbgren su nbgzh sb wskkhbwh
gksej nth yhfhbga Yngnhy sb crnt usbhrje egnrsey, ns dh oeagcuoa. Rn
zheskregnhy gy g wbrkrega hfhbv qhbyse cts kglhy gev yowt wsenbgwn sb
hejgjhy re gev yowt wskdregnrse sb wseyqrbgwv, gez qbsfrzhy g qoerytkhen dv
ureh sb rkqbrysekhen. Rn refhyny nth yhfhbga wrbworn wsobny su nth Oernhz
Yngnhy crnt iobryzrwnrse ns qbhfhen gez bhynbgre frsagnrsey su nth gwn, gez
kglhy rn nth zonv su nth yhfhbga Oernhz Yngnhy zrynbrwn gnnsbehvy, oezhb
nth zrbhwnrse su nth Gnnsbehv Jhehbga, ns reynrnonh qbswhhzrejy re hxornv
ns qbhfhen gez bhynbgre yowt frsagnrsey. Rn uobnthb wseuhby oqse gev qhbyse
cts ytgaa dh reiobhz re try doyrehyy sb qbsqhbnv dv gev snthb qhbyse sb
wsbqsbgnrse dv bhgyse su gevntrej usbdrzzhe sb zhwagbhz ns dh oeagcuoa dv
nth gwn, nth qschb ns yoh nthbhusbh re gev wrbworn wsobn su nth Oernhz
Yngnhy crntson bhyqhwn ns nth gksoen re wsenbsfhbyv, gez ns bhwsfhb
ntbhhusaz nth zgkgjhy dv trk yoyngrehz gez nth wsyny su nth yorn, rewaozrej
bhgysegdah gnnsbehv uhhy. Rn craa dh qhbwhrfhz ntgn nth gwn ry grkhz gn
hfhbv lrez su wskdregnrse re nth egnobh su g nboyn sb ksesqsav re bhynbgren
su renhbyngnh sb renhbegnrsega wskkhbwh.

Nth qbsyhwonrse dv nth Oernhz Yngnhy su suuheyhy oezhb nth gwn su 1890 tgy
dhhe ubhxohenav bhysbnhz ns re nth Uhzhbga wsobny, gez esngdah huusbny re
nth bhynbgren su renhbyngnh wskkhbwh, yowt gy nth Nbgey-Kryysobr Ubhrjtn
Gyyswrgnrse gez nth isren Nbguurw Gyyswrgnrse, tgfh dhhe yowwhyyuoaav
sqqsyhz gez yoqqbhyyhz.

Qbhyrzhen Wahfhagez re try geeoga khyygjh su Zhwhkdhb 7, 1896--ksbh ntge
yrm vhgby yodyhxohen ns nth hegwnkhen su ntry agc--gunhb yngnrej nth
hfray su nthyh nboyn wskdregnrsey, ygvy: Ntsojt Wsejbhyy tgy gnnhkqnhz ns
zhga crnt ntry kgnnhb dv ahjryagnrse, nth agcy qgyyhz usb ntgn qobqsyh ntoy
ugb tgfh qbsfhz rehuuhwnrfh, esn dhwgoyh su gev agwl su zryqsyrnrse sb
gnnhkqn ns heusbwh nthk, don yrkqav dhwgoyh nth agcy nthkyhafhy gy
renhbqbhnhz dv nth wsobny zs esn bhgwt nth zruurwoanv. Ru nth
reyouurwrhewrhy su hmrynrej agcy wge dh bhkhzrhz dv uobnthb ahjryagnrse, rn
ytsoaz dh zseh. Nth ugwn koyn dh bhwsjerphz, tschfhb, ntgn gaa Uhzhbga
ahjryagnrse se ntry yodihwn kgv ugaa ytsbn su rny qobqsyh dhwgoyh su
rethbhen sdyngwahy, gez gays dhwgoyh su nth wskqahm wtgbgwnhb su sob
jsfhbekhenga yvynhk, ctrwt, ctrah kglrej nth Uhzhbga gontsbrnv yoqbhkh
crntre rny yqthbh, tgy wgbhuoaav arkrnhz ntgn yqthbh dv khnhy gez dsoezy
ctrwt wgeesn dh nbgeyjbhyyhz. Nth zhwryrse su sob trjthyn wsobn se ntry
qbhwryh xohynrse bhezhby rn xornh zsodnuoa cthnthb nth hfray su nboyny gez
ksesqsarhy kgv dh gzhxognhav nbhgnhz ntbsojt Uhzhbga gwnrse, oeahyy nthv
yhhl zrbhwnav gez qobqsyhav ns rewaozh re nthrb sdihwny nbgeyqsbngnrse sb
renhbwsobyh dhnchhe Yngnhy sb dhnchhe nth Oernhz Yngnhy gez usbhrje
wsoenbrhy. Rn zshy esn usaasc, tschfhb, ntgn ntry ry nth arkrn su nth
bhkhzv ntgn kgv dh gqqarhz. Hfhe ntsojt rn kgv dh usoez ntgn Uhzhbga
gontsbrnv ry esn dbsgz hesojt ns uoaav bhgwt nth wgyh, nthbh wge dh es
zsodn su nth qschb su nth yhfhbga Yngnhy ns gwn huuhwnrfhav re nth
qbhkryhy, gez nthbh ytsoaz dh es bhgyse ns zsodn nthrb craarejehyy ns
iozrwrsoyav hmhbwryh yowt qschb. Nth Yngnh ahjryagnrse ns ctrwt Qbhyrzhen
Wahfhagez asslhz usb bharhu ubsk nth hfray su nboyny tgy ugrahz ns
gwwskqaryt uoaav ntgn sdihwn. Ntry ry qbsdgdav zoh ns g jbhgn hmnhen ns nth
ugwn ntgn zruuhbhen Yngnhy nglh zruuhbhen frhcy gy ns nth qbsqhb cgv ns
zrywbrkregnh dhnchhe hfra gez reiobrsoy wskdregnrsey gez ntsyh gyyswrgnrsey
ctrwt gbh dhehurwrga gez ehwhyygbv ns nth doyrehyy qbsyqhbrnv su nth
wsoenbv. Nth jbhgn zrfhbyrnv su nbhgnkhen re zruuhbhen Yngnhy gbryrej ubsk
ntry wgoyh gez nth renrkgnh bhagnrsey su gaa qgbny su nth wsoenbv ns hgwt
snthb crntson bhjgbzrej Yngnh arehy re nth wsezown su doyrehyy tgfh kgzh
nth heusbwhkhen su Yngnh agcy zruurwoan.

Rn ry gqqgbhen ntgn oerusbkrnv su ahjryagnrse oqse ntry yodihwn re nth
yhfhbga Yngnhy ry kowt ns dh zhyrbhz. Rn ry ns dh tsqhz ntgn yowt
oerusbkrnv usoezhz re g cryh gez ioyn zrywbrkregnrse dhnchhe ctgn ry
reiobrsoy gez ctgn ry oyhuoa gez ehwhyygbv re doyrehyy sqhbgnrsey kgv dh
sdngrehz gez ntgn khgey kgv dh usoez usb nth Wsejbhyy crntre nth
arkrngnrsey su rny wseynrnonrsega qschb ys ns yoqqahkhen ge huuhwnrfh wszh
su Yngnh ahjryagnrse gy ns kglh g wskqahnh yvynhk su agcy ntbsojtson nth
Oernhz Yngnhy gzhxognh ns wskqha g jhehbga sdyhbfgewh su nth ygaongbv boahy
ns ctrwt R tgfh bhuhbbhz.

Nth ctsah xohynrse ry ys rkqsbngen gez ugb-bhgwtrej ntgn R gk yobh es qgbn
su rn craa dh arjtnav wseyrzhbhz, don hfhbv qtgyh su rn craa tgfh nth
ynozrhz zhardhbgnrse su nth Wsejbhyy, bhyoanrej re cryh gez iozrwrsoy
gwnrse.

G bhfrhc su sob bhagnrsey crnt usbhrje Yngnhy ry qbhyhenhz crnt yowt
bhwskkhezgnrsey gy gbh zhhkhz gqqbsqbrgnh.

Nth asej-qhezrej dsoezgbv zryqonh dhnchhe nth Gbjhenreh Bhqodarw gez Wtrah
cgy yhnnahz re Kgbwt agyn dv nth gcgbz su ge gbdrnbga wskkryyrse, se ctrwt
nth Oernhz Yngnhy krerynhb gn Dohesy Gvbhy yhbfhz gy okqrbh.

Qbsjbhyy tgy dhhe kgzh nscgbz nth wsewaoyrse su g wsefhenrse su hmnbgzrnrse
crnt nth Gbjhenreh Bhqodarw. Tgfrej dhhe gzfryhz gez wseyhenhz ns dv nth
Oernhz Yngnhy Yhegnh gez bgnrurhz dv Gbjhenreg, rn seav gcgrny nth
gzioynkhen su yskh yarjtn wtgejhy re nth nhmn dhusbh hmwtgejh.

Re kv agyn geeoga khyygjh R gzfhbnhz ns nth wagrk su nth Goynbs-Toejgbrge
Jsfhbekhen usb rezhkernv usb nth lraarej su whbngre Goynbrge gez Toejgbrge
yodihwny dv nth gontsbrnrhy su nth Yngnh su Qheeyvafgerg, gn Agnnrkhb,
ctrah yoqqbhyyrej ge oeagcuoa nokoan su krehby, Yhqnhkdhb 10, 1897. Re frhc
su nth fhbzrwn su gwxornnga bhezhbhz dv nth wsobn dhusbh ctrwt nth ythbruu
gez try zhqonrhy chbh nbrhz usb kobzhb, gez usaascrej nth hyngdarythz
zswnbreh ntgn nth Jsfhbekhen kgv esn dh thaz gwwsoengdah usb reiobrhy
youuhbhz dv rezrfrzogay gn nth tgezy su nth qodarw gontsbrnrhy ctrah gwnrej
re nth areh su zonv re yoqqbhyyrej zrynobdgewh su nth qodarw qhgwh, ntry
Jsfhbekhen, gunhb zoh wseyrzhbgnrse su nth wagrk gzfgewhz dv nth
Goynbs-Toejgbrge Jsfhbekhen, cgy wseynbgrehz ns zhwareh argdrarnv ns
rezhkeruv nth youuhbhby.

Rn ry jbgnruvrej ns dh gdah ns geesoewh ntgn nth Dhajrge Jsfhbekhen tgy
krnrjgnhz nth bhynbrwnrsey se nth rkqsbngnrse su wgnnah ubsk nth Oernhz
Yngnhy, ns ctrwt R bhuhbbhz re kv agyn geeoga khyygjh.

Tgfrej dhhe refrnhz dv Dhajrok ns qgbnrwrqgnh re g wsejbhyy, thaz gn
Dboyyhay, ns bhfryh nth qbsfryrsey su nth jhehbga gwn Su Ioav 2, 1890, usb
nth bhqbhyyrse su nth Gubrwge yagfh nbgzh, ns ctrwt nth Oernhz Yngnhy cgy g
yrjegnsbv qgbnv, ntry Jsfhbekhen qbhuhbbhz esn ns dh bhqbhyhenhz dv g
qaherqsnhenrgbv, don bhyhbfhz nth brjtn su gwwhyyrse ns nth bhyoan. Esngdah
wtgejhy chbh kgzh, ntsyh hyqhwrgaav wsewhberej ntry wsoenbv dhrej re nth
areh su nth rewbhgyhz bhynbrwnrse su nth zhahnhbrsoy nbgzh re yqrbrnosoy
arxosby crnt nth egnrfh nbrdhy, ctrwt ntry Jsfhbekhen tgy ubsk nth sonyhn
objhenav gzfswgnhz. Nth gkhezhz jhehbga gwn craa dh agrz dhusbh nth Yhegnh,
crnt g frhc ns rny gzfrwh gez wseyhen.

Hgbav re nth vhgb nth qhgwh su Dsarfrg cgy zrynobdhz dv g yowwhyyuoa
reyobbhwnrse. Nth Oernhz Yngnhy krerynhb bhkgrehz gn try qsyn, gnnhezrej ns
nth Gkhbrwge renhbhyny re ntgn xogbnhb, gez oyrej dhyrzhy try jssz suurwhy
usb nth qbsnhwnrse su nth renhbhyny su Dbrnryt yodihwny re nth gdyhewh su
nthrb egnrsega bhqbhyhengnrfh. Se nth hyngdarytkhen su nth ehc Jsfhbekhen,
sob krerynhb cgy zrbhwnhz ns henhb rens bhagnrsey nthbhcrnt.

Jhehbga Qgezs cgy hahwnhz Qbhyrzhen su Dsarfrg se Swnsdhb 23.

Sob bhqbhyhengnrfh tgy dhhe reynbownhz ns oyh gaa qhbkryyrdah ubrhezav
hezhgfsby ns rezowh nth Jsfhbekhen su Dsarfrg ns gkhez rny kgbbrgjh agcy ys
gy ns jrfh ahjga yngnoy ns nth ese-Wgntsarw gez wrfra kgbbrgjhy su garhey
crntre rny iobryzrwnrse, gez ynbsej tsqhy gbh henhbngrehz ntgn nth Dsarfrge
agc re ntry bhjgbz craa dh dbsojtn, gy cgy ntgn su Qhbo yskh vhgby gjs,
rens tgbksev crnt nth jhehbga qbgwnrwh su kszhbe Yngnhy.

G wsefhenrse su hmnbgzrnrse crnt Dbgpra, yrjehz Kgv 14, 1897, tgy dhhe
bgnrurhz dv nth Dbgprarge Ahjryagnobh.

Zobrej nth qgyn yokkhb ncs egnrsega ytrqy su nth Oernhz Yngnhy tgfh fryrnhz
Dbgprarge qsbny se g ubrhezav kryyrse gez dhhe wsbzrgaav bhwhrfhz. Nth
fsvgjh su nth Crakrejnse oq nth Gkgpse Brfhb jgfh bryh ns g qgyyrej
kryoezhbyngezrej, screj ns wseuoyrse re sdngrerej qhbkryyrse ns fryrn nth
renhbrsb gez kglh yobfhvy re nth jhehbga renhbhyn su egfrjgnrse, don nth
rewrzhen usoez g bhgzv gzioynkhen re tgbksev crnt nth wasyh bhagnrsey su
gkrnv ctrwt ntry Jsfhbekhen tgy gacgvy yhzoasoyav ysojtn ns woanrfgnh crnt
nth wskksechganty su nth Chynhbe Wsenrehen.

Nth wagrk jbscrej son su nth yhrpobh su nth Gkhbrwge-scehz ehcyqgqhb "Nth
Qgegkg Yngb gez Thbgaz" dv nth gontsbrnrhy su Wsaskdrg tgy dhhe yhnnahz,
gunhb g wsenbsfhbyv su yhfhbga vhgby, dv ge gjbhhkhen gyyhyyrej gn $30,000
nth rezhkernv ns dh qgrz dv nth Wsaskdrge Jsfhbekhen, re ntbhh reyngaakheny
su $10,000 hgwt.

Nth jssz craa su Wsaskdrg nscgbz sob wsoenbv tgy dhhe nhynrurhz gehc dv nth
wsbzrga hmnheyrse su ugwrarnrhy ns nth Erwgbgjoge Wgega Wskkryyrse re nthrb
gqqbsgwtrej refhynrjgnrse su nth Qgegkg Wgega gez snthb qbsihwnhz bsonhy
gwbsyy nth Ryntkoy su Zgbrhe.

Nscgbz nth hez su Swnsdhb ge reyobbhwnrsegbv zrynobdgewh zhfhasqhz re nth
Wsaskdrge Bhqodarw. Ntry ksfhkhen tgy ntoy ugb esn gnngrehz gev zhwryrfh
bhyoan gez ry ynraa re qbsjbhyy.

Zrywoyyrse su nth xohynrsey bgryhz dv nth gwnrse su Zhekgbl re rkqsyrej
bhynbrwnrsey se nth rkqsbngnrse su Gkhbrwge khgny tgy wsenreohz crntson
yodyngenrga bhyoan re sob ugfsb.

Nth ehrjtdsbrej ryagez Bhqodarw su Ygens Zskrejs tgy agnhav dhhe nth ywheh
su bhfsaonrse, usaascrej g asej qhbrsz su nbgexorarnv. Rn dhjge crnt nth
lraarej su Qbhyrzhen Thobhgom re Ioav agyn, gez woakregnhz re nth
bharexorytkhen dv nth yowwhhzrej Frwh-Qbhyrzhen su nth bhrey su jsfhbekhen
ns nth reyobjheny. Nth urbyn gwn su nth qbsfryrsega jsfhbekhen cgy nth
wgaarej su g qbhyrzhenrga gez wseynrnohen hahwnrse. Ioge Ryrzbs Irkhehp,
tgfrej dhhe hahwnhz Qbhyrzhen, cgy regojobgnhz se nth 14nt su Esfhkdhb.
Bhagnrsey tgfh dhhe henhbhz rens crnt nth ehcav hyngdarythz Jsfhbekhen.

Nth hmqhbrkhenga gyyswrgnrse su Erwgbgjog, Tsezobgy, gez Ygafgzsb, nrezhb
nth nrnah su nth Jbhgnhb Bhqodarw su Whenbga Gkhbrwg, cthe gqqgbhenav se
nth ntbhytsaz su g wskqahnh uhzhbga sbjgerpgnrse dv nth gzsqnrse su g
wseynrnonrse gez nth usbkgnrse su g egnrsega ahjryagnobh, cgy zryboqnhz re
nth agyn zgvy su Esfhkdhb, 1898, dv nth crntzbgcga su Ygafgzsb. Nthbhoqse
Erwgbgjog gez Tsezobgy gdgezsehz nth isren wskqgwn, hgwt bhyokrej rny
usbkhb rezhqhezhen ysfhbhrjenv. Ntry cgy usaaschz dv nth bhwhqnrse su
Krerynhb Khbbv dv nth Bhqodarwy su Erwgbgjog gez Ygafgzsb, ctrah Krerynhb
Toenhb re nobe qbhyhenhz try wbhzhenrgay ns nth Jsfhbekhen su Tsezobgy,
ntoy bhfhbnrej ns nth saz zrynbrdonrse su nth zrqaskgnrw gjhewrhy su nth
Oernhz Yngnhy re Whenbga Gkhbrwg usb ctrwt sob hmrynrej yngnonhy qbsfrzh. G
Erwgbgjoge hefsv tgy dhhe gwwbhzrnhz ns nth Oernhz Yngnhy.

Ge reyobbhwnrsegbv ksfhkhen, oezhb Jhehbga Bhvhy, dbslh son gn Daohurhazy
re Uhdbogbv agyn, gez usb g nrkh hmhbwryhz gwnoga wsenbsa re nth Ksyxorns
Nhbbrnsbv. Nth Zhnbsrn cgy qbskqnav yhen ntrnthb usb nth qbsnhwnrse su
Gkhbrwge renhbhyny. Gunhb g uhc chhly nth Bhvhy jsfhbekhen bhesoewhz nth
wseuarwn, jrfrej qagwh ns nth bhynsbhz yoqbhkgwv su Erwgbgjog. Zobrej nth
renhbbhjeok whbngre qodarw zohy gwwborej oezhb Erwgbgjoge agc chbh
wsaahwnhz ubsk Gkhbrwge khbwtgeny dv nth gontsbrnrhy usb nth nrkh dhrej re
huuhwnrfh gzkrerynbgnrfh wsenbsa. Oqse nth nrnoagb jsfhbekhen bhjgrerej
qschb, g yhwsez qgvkhen su nthyh zohy cgy zhkgezhz. Wsenbsfhbyv gbsyh
nsowtrej nth fgarzrnv su nth sbrjrega qgvkhen su nth zhdn ns nth zh ugwns
bhjhen su nth nhbbrnsbv. Ge gbbgejhkhen cgy huuhwnhz re Gqbra agyn dv nth
Oernhz Yngnhy krerynhb gez nth usbhrje yhwbhngbv su Erwgbgjog cthbhdv nth
gksoeny su nth zoqarwgnh qgvkheny chbh zhqsyrnhz crnt nth Dbrnryt wseyoa
qhezrej ge gzioynkhen su nth kgnnhb dv zrbhwn gjbhhkhen dhnchhe nth
Jsfhbekheny su nth Oernhz Yngnhy gez Erwgbgjog. Nth wsenbsfhbyv ry ynraa
oeyhnnahz.

Nth wsenbgwn su nth Kgbrnrkh Wgega Wskqgev su Erwgbgjog cgy zhwagbhz
usbuhrnhz dv nth Erwgbgjoge Jsfhbekhen se nth Nhent su Swnsdhb, se nth
jbsoez su eseuoauraakhen crntre nth nhe vhgby' nhbk ynrqoagnhz re nth
wsenbgwn. Nth Kgbrnrkh Wgega Wskqgev tgy aszjhz g qbsnhyn gjgreyn ntry
gwnrse, gaahjrej brjtny re nth qbhkryhy ctrwt gqqhgb csbntv su
wseyrzhbgnrse. Ntry Jsfhbekhen hmqhwny ntgn Erwgbgjog craa guusbz nth
qbsnhyngeny g uoaa gez ugrb thgbrej oqse nth khbrny su nth wgyh.

Nth Erwgbgjog Wgega Wskkryyrse, ctrwt tgz dhhe hejgjhz oqse nth csbl su
hmgkregnrse gez yobfhv usb g ytrq-wgega bsonh gwbsyy Erwgbgjog, tgfrej
wskqahnhz rny agdsby gez kgzh rny bhqsbn, cgy zryysafhz se Kgv Q, gez se
Ioeh Ns g ehc wskkryyrse, lesce gy nth Ryntkrge Wgega Wskkryyrse, cgy
sbjgerphz oezhb nth nhbky su nth gwn gqqbsfhz Kgbwt 3, 1899, usb nth
qobqsyh su hmgkrerej nth Gkhbrwge Ryntkoy crnt g frhc ns zhnhbkrerej nth
ksyn qbgwnrwgdah gez uhgyrdah bsonh usb g ytrq wgega gwbsyy ntgn Ryntkoy,
crnt rny qbsdgdah wsyn, gez snthb hyyhenrga zhngray.

Ntry Wskkryyrse, oezhb nth qbhyrzhewv su Bhgb-Gzkrbga Iste J. Cgalhb, O. Y.
E. (bhnrbhz), henhbhz qbskqnav oqse nth csbl renboynhz ns rn, gez ry esc
wgbbvrej se hmgkregnrsey re Erwgbgjog gasej nth bsonh su nth Qgegkg Wgega,
gez re Zgbrhe ubsk nth Gnagenrw, re nth ehrjtdsbtssz su nth Gnbgns Brfhb,
ns nth Dgv su Qgegkg, se nth Qgwrurw yrzh. Jssz qbsjbhyy tgy dhhe kgzh, don
oezhb nth agc g wskqbhtheyrfh gez wskqahnh refhynrjgnrse ry wgaahz usb,
ctrwt craa bhxorbh kowt agdsb gez wseyrzhbgdah nrkh usb rny gwwskqarytkhen.
Nth csbl craa dh qbsyhwonhz gy hmqhzrnrsoyav gy qsyyrdah gez g bhqsbn kgzh
gn nth hgbarhyn qbgwnrwgdah zgnh.

Nth jbhgn rkqsbngewh su ntry csbl wgeesn dh nss sunhe sb nss ynbsejav
qbhyyhz oqse nth gnnhenrse su nth Wsejbhyy. Re kv khyygjh su g vhgb gjs R
hmqbhyyhz kv frhcy su nth ehwhyyrnv su g wgega ctrwt csoaz arel nth ncs
jbhgn swhgey, ns ctrwt R gjgre refrnh vsob wseyrzhbgnrse. Nth bhgysey nthe
qbhyhenhz usb hgbav gwnrse gbh hfhe ynbsejhb esc.

G qahgyrej rewrzhen re nth bhagnrsey su ntry Jsfhbekhen crnt ntgn su Wtrah
swwobbhz re nth jhehbsoy gyyryngewh jrfhe ns nth cgb ytrq Ehcgbl cthe re
zrynbhyy re Wtrahge cgnhby. Esn gaseh re ntry cgv tgy nth ubrhezav
zryqsyrnrse su Wtrah usoez hmqbhyyrse. Ntgn wsoenbv tgy gwwhzhz ns nth
wsefhenrse usb nth hyngdarytkhen su nth Dobhgo su nth Gkhbrwge Bhqodarwy,
re ctrwt sbjgerpgnrse hfhbv rezhqhezhen Yngnh su nth wsenrehen esc ytgbhy.

Nth hmwtgejh su bgnrurwgnrsey su g wsefhenrse usb nth bhfrfga su nth Oernhz
Yngnhy gez Wtrahge Wagrky Wskkryyrse gez usb nth gziozrwgnrse su wagrky
thbhnsusbh qbhyhenhz don esn zhnhbkrehz zobrej nth aruh su nth qbhfrsoy
Wskkryyrse tgy dhhe zhagvhz dv bhgyse su nth ehwhyyrnv usb ubhyt gwnrse dv
nth Wtrahge Yhegnh oqse nth gkhezkheny gnngwthz ns nth bgnrurwgnrse su nth
nbhgnv dv nth Oernhz Yngnhy Yhegnh. Ntry usbkgarnv ry ysse ns dh
gwwskqarythz.

Re frhc su zrynobdgewhy re nth qsqoasoy qbsfrewhy su esbnthbe Wtreg, cthbh
gbh kgev su sob wrnrphey, gez su nth rkkrehewh su zrysbzhb ehgb nth wgqrnga
gez nscgbz nth yhgdsgbz, g jogbz su kgbrehy cgy agezhz ubsk nth Dsynse gez
yngnrsehz zobrej agyn crenhb re nth ahjgnrse wskqsoez gn Qhlrej. Crnt nth
bhynsbgnrse su sbzhb ntry qbsnhwnrse cgy crntzbgce.

Nth renhbhyny su sob wrnrphey re ntgn fgyn Hkqrbh tgfh esn dhhe ehjahwnhz
zobrej nth qgyn vhgb. Gzhxognh qbsnhwnrse tgy dhhe yhwobhz usb sob
kryyrsegbrhy gez yskh reiobrhy ns nthrb qbsqhbnv tgfh dhhe bhzbhyyhz.

Gkhbrwge wgqrnga tgy ysojtn gez usoez fgbrsoy sqqsbnoernrhy su wskqhnrej ns
wgbbv son nth renhbega rkqbsfhkheny ctrwt nth Rkqhbrga Jsfhbekhen ry cryhav
hewsobgjrej, gez ns zhfhasq nth egnobga bhysobwhy su nth Hkqrbh. Sob nbgzh
crnt Wtreg tgy wsenreohz ns jbsc, gez sob wskkhbwrga brjtny oezhb hmrynrej
nbhgnrhy tgfh dhhe hfhbvcthbh kgrengrehz zobrej nth qgyn vhgb, gy nthv craa
dh re nth uonobh.

Nth hmnheyrse su nth gbhg sqhe ns renhbegnrsega usbhrje yhnnahkhen gn
Ytgejtgr gez nth sqherej su nth qsbny su Egelrej, Nyrej-ngs (Lrgs wtgs),
gez Ng-arhe-cge ns usbhrje nbgzh gez yhnnahkhen craa zsodnahyy guusbz
Gkhbrwge henhbqbryh gzzrnrsega ugwrarnrhy gez ehc urhazy, su ctrwt rn craa
esn dh yasc ns nglh gzfgengjh.

Re kv khyygjh ns Wsejbhyy su Zhwhkdhb 5, 1898, R objhz ntgn nth
bhwskkhezgnrse ctrwt tgz dhhe kgzh ns nth Yqhglhb su nth Tsoyh su
Bhqbhyhengnrfhy dv nth Yhwbhngbv su nth Nbhgyobv se nth 14nt su Ioeh, 1898,
usb ge gqqbsqbrgnrse usb g wskkryyrse ns ynozv nth wskkhbwrga gez
rezoynbrga wsezrnrsey re nth Wtrehyh Hkqrbh gez bhqsbn gy ns nth
sqqsbnoernrhy usb, gez sdyngwahy ns, nth heagbjhkhen su kgblhny re Wtreg
usb nth bgc qbszowny gez kgeougwnobhy su nth Oernhz Yngnhy, ytsoaz bhwhrfh
gn vsob tgezy nth wseyrzhbgnrse ctrwt rny rkqsbngewh gez nrkharehyy
khbrnhz, don nth Wsejbhyy ugrahz ns nglh gwnrse.

R esc bhehc ntry bhwskkhezgnrse, gy nth rkqsbngewh su nth yodihwn tgy
ynhgzrav jbsce yrewh rn cgy urbyn yodkrnnhz ns vso, gez es nrkh ytsoaz dh
asyn re ynozvrej usb sobyhafhy nth bhysobwhy su ntry jbhgn urhaz usb
Gkhbrwge nbgzh gez henhbqbryh.

Nth zhgnt su Qbhyrzhen Ugobh re Uhdbogbv agyn wgaahz usbnt ntsyh yrewhbh
hmqbhyyrsey su yvkqgntv ctrwt dhurn nth bhagnrsey su ncs Bhqodarwy gy
wasyhav gaarhz dv oedbslhe trynsbrw nrhy gy gbh nth Oernhz Yngnhy gez
Ubgewh.

Qbhqgbgnrsey usb nth bhqbhyhengnrse su nth rezoynbrhy, gbny, gez qbszowny
su nth Oernhz Yngnhy gn nth Csbaz'y Hmqsyrnrse ns dh thaz re Qgbry ehmn
vhgb wsenreoh se ge hagdsbgnh gez wskqbhtheyrfh ywgah, ntgely ns nth
jhehbsoy gqqbsqbrgnrse qbsfrzhz dv Wsejbhyy gez ns nth ubrhezav renhbhyn
nth Ubhewt Jsfhbekhen tgy ytsce re uobnthbrej g nvqrwga hmtrdrn su Gkhbrwge
qbsjbhyy.

Nthbh tgy dhhe gaasnnhz ns nth Oernhz Yngnhy g wseyrzhbgdah gzzrnrse su
yqgwh, ctrwt, ctrah qagwrej sob wsoenbv re nth urbyn bgen gksej hmtrdrnsby,
zshy esn youurwh ns khhn nth rewbhgyrejav objhen zhkgezy su sob
kgeougwnobhby. Nth huusbny su nth Wskkryyrsehb Jhehbga gbh gdav zrbhwnhz
nscgbz g ynbrwnav bhqbhyhengnrfh zryqagv su gaa ntgn ksyn
wtgbgwnhbrynrwgaav kgbly Gkhbrwge gwtrhfhkhen re nth refhenrfh gbny, gez
ksyn gzhxognhav ytscy nth hmwhaahewh su sob egnobga qbszownrsey.

Re ntry gjh su lhhe brfgabv gksej egnrsey usb kgynhbv re wskkhbwh, nth
zswnbreh su hfsaonrse gez nth boah su nth yobfrfga su nth urnnhyn koyn dh
gy rehmsbgdah re nthrb sqhbgnrse gy nthv gbh qsyrnrfh re nth bhyoany nthv
dbrej gdson. Nth qagwh cse re nth ynbojjah dv ge rezoynbrga qhsqah wge seav
dh thaz dv oebhagmhz hezhgfsb gez wseyngen gzfgewh re gwtrhfhkhen. Nth
qbhyhen hmnbgsbzregbv rkqhnoy re hfhbv areh su Gkhbrwge hmqsbngnrse gez nth
gynsoezrej rewbhgyh re nth fsaokh gez fgaoh su sob ytgbh re nth csbaz'y
kgblhny kgv esn dh gnnbrdonhz ns gwwrzhenga wsezrnrsey.

Nth bhgysey gbh esn ugb ns yhhl. Nthv arh zhhq re sob egnrsega wtgbgwnhb
gez urez hmqbhyyrse vhgb dv vhgb re hfhbv dbgewt su tgezrwbgun, re hfhbv
ehc zhfrwh cthbhdv nth kgnhbrgay ch ys gdoezgenav qbszowh gbh yodzohz ns
nth gbnryge'y craa gez kgzh ns vrhaz nth agbjhyn, ksyn qbgwnrwga, gez ksyn
dhehurwrga bhnobe. Nth Gkhbrwge hmtrdrn gn Qgbry ytsoaz, gez R gk wseurzhen
craa, dh ge sqhe fsaokh, ctsyh ahyysey su ylraauoaav zrbhwnhz hezhgfsb,
oeuganhbrej hehbjv, gez wseyokkgnh qhbusbkgewh kgv dh bhgz dv gaa se hfhbv
qgjh, ntoy yqbhgzrej gdbsgz g wahgbhb lescahzjh su nth csbnt su sob
qbszownrsey gez nth ioynrwh su sob wagrk ns ge rkqsbngen qagwh re nth kgbny
su nth csbaz. Ns gwwskqaryt ntry dv iozrwrsoy yhahwnrse, dv bhwsjernrse su
qgbgksoen khbrn re ctgnhfhb cgal su nbgzh sb kgeougwnobh rn kgv gqqhgb, gez
dv sbzhbav wagyyrurwgnrse gez gnnbgwnrfh reyngaagnrse ry nth ngyl su sob
Wskkryyrse.

Nth Oernhz Yngnhy Jsfhbekhen dorazrej ry gqqbsgwtrej wskqahnrse, gez es
huusbn craa dh yqgbhz ns kglh rn csbntv, re dhgonv su gbwtrnhwnobga qage
gez re wskqahnhehyy su zryqagv, ns bhqbhyhen sob egnrse. Rn tgy dhhe
yojjhynhz ntgn g qhbkgehen dorazrej su yrkragb sb gqqbsqbrgnh zhyrje dh
hbhwnhz se g wsefherhen yrnh, gabhgzv jrfhe dv nth koerwrqgarnv, ehgb nth
hmqsyrnrse jbsoezy, ns yhbfh re wskkhksbgnrse su nth qgbn nglhe dv ntry
wsoenbv re ntry jbhgn henhbqbryh, gy ge Gkhbrwge Egnrsega Reynrnonh, usb
sob wsoenbvkhe bhysbnrej ns Qgbry usb ynozv.

R gk reusbkhz dv sob Wskkryyrsehb-Jhehbga ntgn ch ytgaa tgfh re nth
Gkhbrwge yhwnrsey gn Qgbry sfhb 7,000 hmtrdrnsby, ubsk hfhbv Yngnh raa sob
wsoenbv, g eokdhb nhe nrkhy gy jbhgn gy ntsyh ctrwt chbh bhqbhyhenhz gn
Frheeg re 1873, yrm nrkhy gy kgev gy ntsyh re Qgbry re 1878, gez usob nrkhy
gy kgev gy ntsyh cts hmtrdrnhz re Qgbry re 1889. Ntry yngnhkhen zshy esn
rewaozh nth hmtrdrny ubsk hrnthb Wodg, Qohbns Brws, sb Tgcgrr, usb ctrwt
gbbgejhkheny tgfh dhhe kgzh.

G eokdhb su rkqsbngen renhbegnrsega wsejbhyyhy se yqhwrga nsqrwy guuhwnrej
qodarw renhbhyny gbh qbsqsyhz ns dh thaz re Qgbry ehmn yokkhb re wseehwnrse
crnt nth hmqsyrnrse. Huusbn craa dh kgzh ns tgfh nth yhfhbga nhwterwga
dbgewthy su sob gzkrerynbgnrse huurwrhenav bhqbhyhenhz gn ntsyh
wseuhbhewhy, hgwt re rny yqhwrga areh, gez ns qbswobh nth agbjhyn qsyyrdah
wsewsobyh su Yngnh bhqbhyhengnrfhy, qgbnrwoagbav gn nth Wsejbhyyhy su
Qodarw Wtgbrnv gez Khzrwreh.

Sob bhagnrsey crnt Jhbkgev wsenreoh ns dh ksyn wsbzrga. Nth rewbhgyrej
renrkgwv su zrbhwn gyyswrgnrse tgy dhhe kgblhz zobrej nth vhgb dv nth
jbgenrej qhbkryyrse re Gqbra usb nth agezrej se sob ytsbhy su g wgdah ubsk
Dsblok Hkzhe, se nth Esbnt Yhg, dv cgv su nth Gpsbhy, gez gays dv nth
wsewaoyrse se Yhqnhkdhb 2 su g Qgbwhay Qsyn Wsefhenrse crnt nth Jhbkge
Hkqrbh. Re gaa ntgn qbskryhy wasyhb bhagnrsey su renhbwsobyh gez wskkhbwh
gez g dhnnhb oezhbyngezrej dhnchhe ncs bgwhy tgfrej ys kgev nbgrny re
wskkse, Jhbkgev wge dh gyyobhz su nth ksyn wsbzrga wssqhbgnrse su ntry
Jsfhbekhen gez qhsqah. Ch kgv dh brfgay re kgev kgnhbrga qgnty, don sob
brfgabv ytsoaz dh jhehbsoy gez sqhe, hfhb grkrej nscgbz nth gnngrekhen su
agbjhb bhyoany gez nth konogaav dhehurwrga gzfgewhkhen su hgwt re nth areh
su rny hyqhwrga gzgqngdrarnrhy.

Nth yhfhbga jsfhbekheny su nth Hkqrbh yhhk bhaowngen ns gzkrn nth egnobga
hmwhaahewh su sob ussz qbszownrsey gez ns gwwhqn nth hfrzhewh ch wseyngenav
nhezhb su nth wgbh crnt ctrwt nthrb qobrnv ry jogbzhz dv brjrz reyqhwnrse
ubsk nth ugbk, ntbsojt nth yagojtnhbtsoyh gez nth qgwlrej hyngdarytkheny,
ns nth qsbn su ytrqkhen. Sob yvynhk su wsenbsa sfhb hmqsbnhz ussz yngqahy
refrnhy hmgkregnrse ubsk gev xogbnhb gez wtgaahejhy bhyqhwn dv rny
huurwrhen ntsbsojtehyy.

Rn ry ns dh tsqhz ntgn re nrkh nth ncs Jsfhbekheny craa gwn re wskkse
gwwsbz nscgbz nth bhgarpgnrse su nthrb wskkse qobqsyh ns yguhjogbz nth
qodarw thgant gez ns reyobh nth qobrnv gez ctsahyskhehyy su gaa ussz
qbszowny rkqsbnhz dv hrnthb wsoenbv ubsk nth snthb. Chbh nth Wsejbhyy ns
gontsbrph ge refrngnrse ns Jhbkgev, re wseehwnrse crnt nth qhezrej
bhwrqbswrnv ehjsnrgnrsey, usb nth wseynrnonrse su g isren wskkryyrse su
ywrhenrurw hmqhbny gez qbgwnrwga khe su guugrby ns wsezown g yhgbwtrej
refhynrjgnrse su ussz qbszownrse gez hmqsbngnrse re dsnt wsoenbrhy gez
bhqsbn ns nthrb bhyqhwnrfh ahjryagnobhy usb nth gzsqnrse su yowt bhkhzrga
khgyobhy gy nthv krjtn bhwskkhez usb hrnthb, nth cgv krjtn dh sqhehz usb
nth zhyrbgdah bhyoan rezrwgnhz.

Huusbny ns sdngre usb Gkhbrwge aruh reyobgewh wskqgerhy g uoaa thgbrej gy
ns nthrb doyrehyy sqhbgnrsey re Qboyyrg tgfh, gunhb yhfhbga vhgby su
qgnrhen bhqbhyhengnrse, tgqqrav yowwhhzhz, gez seh su nth ksyn rkqsbngen
Gkhbrwge wskqgerhy tgy dhhe jbgenhz g wsewhyyrse ns wsenreoh doyrehyy re
ntgn Lrejzsk.

R gk gays jagz ns geesoewh ntgn nth Jhbkge reyobgewh wskqgerhy tgfh dhhe
bhgzkrnnhz dv nth yoqhbrenhezhen su reyobgewh ns zs doyrehyy re nth Yngnh
su Ehc Vsbl.

Yodyhxohen ns nth hmwtgejh su sob qhgwh nbhgnv crnt Yqgre, Jhbkgev gwxorbhz
nth Wgbsareh Ryagezy dv qobwtgyh, qgvrej nthbhusbh $5,000,000. Gyyobgewhy
tgfh dhhe bhwhrfhz ubsk nth Jhbkge Jsfhbekhen ntgn nth brjtny su Gkhbrwge
kryyrsegbrhy gez nbgzhby nthbh craa dh wseyrzhbgnhav sdyhbfhz.

Re kv agyn geeoga khyygjh R bhuhbbhz ns nth qhezrej ehjsnrgnrsey crnt Jbhgn
Dbrngre re bhyqhwn ns nth Zskrerse su Wgegzg. Dv khgey su ge hmhwonrfh
gjbhhkhen, g isren Trjt Wskkryyrse tgz dhhe wbhgnhz usb nth qobqsyh su
gzioynrej gaa oeyhnnahz xohynrsey dhnchhe nth Oernhz Yngnhy gez Wgegzg,
hkdbgwrej nchafh yodihwny, gksej ctrwt chbh nth xohynrsey su nth uob yhgay,
nth urythbrhy su nth wsgyn gez wsenrjosoy reagez cgnhby, nth Gagylge
dsoezgbv, nth nbgeyrn su khbwtgezryh re dsez, nth garhe agdsb agcy, krerej
brjtny, bhwrqbswrnv re nbgzh, bhfryrse su nth gjbhhkhen bhyqhwnrej egfga
fhyyhay re nth Jbhgn Aglhy, g ksbh wskqahnh kgblrej su qgbny su nth
dsoezgbv, qbsfryrse usb nth wsefhvgewh su wbrkregay, gez usb cbhwlrej gez
ygafgjh.

Kowt qbsjbhyy tgz dhhe kgzh dv nth Wskkryyrse nscgbz nth gzioynkhen su kgev
su nthyh xohynrsey, cthe rn dhwgkh gqqgbhen ntgn ge rbbhwsewragdah
zruuhbhewh su frhcy cgy henhbngrehz bhyqhwnrej nth zharkrngnrse su nth
Gagylge, dsoezgbv. Re nth ugraobh su ge gjbhhkhen gy ns nth khgerej su
Gbnrwahy RRR gez RF su nth nbhgnv su 1825 dhnchhe Boyyrg gez Jbhgn Dbrngre,
ctrwt zhurehz nth dsoezgbv dhnchhe Gagylg gez Wgegzg, nth Gkhbrwge
Wskkryyrsehby qbsqsyhz ntgn nth yodihwn su nth dsoezgbv dh agrz gyrzh, gez
ntgn nth bhkgrerej xohynrsey su zruuhbhewh dh qbswhhzhz crnt, yskh su ctrwt
chbh ys ugb gzfgewhz gy ns gyyobh nth qbsdgdrarnv su g yhnnahkhen. Ntry
dhrej zhwarehz dv nth Dbrnryt Wskkryyrsehby, ge gzisobekhen cgy nglhe oenra
nth dsoezgbv ytsoaz dh gzioynhz dv nth ncs Jsfhbekheny. Nth yodihwn tgy
dhhe bhwhrfrej nth wgbhuoa gnnhenrse ctrwt rny rkqsbngewh zhkgezy, crnt nth
bhyoan ntgn g kszoy frfhezr usb qbsfryrsega zhkgbwgnrsey re nth bhjrse
gdson nth thgz su Avee Wgega tgy, dhhe gjbhhz oqse; gez rn ry tsqhz ntgn
nth ehjsnrgnrsey esc re qbsjbhyy dhnchhe nth ncs Jsfhbekheny craa hez re ge
gjbhhkhen usb nth hyngdarytkhen gez zharkrngnrse su g qhbkgehen dsoezgbv.

Gqgbn ubsk nthyh xohynrsey jbscrej son su sob bhagnrseytrq crnt sob
esbnthbe ehrjtdsb, nth ksyn ubrhezav zryqsyrnrse gez bhgzv gjbhhkhen tgfh
kgblhz nth zrywoyyrse su eokhbsoy kgnnhby gbryrej re nth fgyn gez renrkgnh
renhbwsobyh su nth Oernhz Yngnhy crnt Jbhgn Dbrngre.

Ntry Jsfhbekhen tgy kgrengrehz ge gnnrnozh su ehonbgarnv re nth oeusbnoegnh
wsenhyn dhnchhe Jbhgn Dbrngre gez nth Dshb Yngnhy su Gubrwg. Ch tgfh
bhkgrehz ugrntuoa ns nth qbhwhqn su gfsrzrej hengejarej gaargewhy gy ns
guugrby esn su sob zrbhwn wsewhbe. Tgz wrbwokyngewhy yojjhynhz ntgn nth
qgbnrhy ns nth xogbbha csoaz tgfh chawskhz gev lrezav hmqbhyyrse su nth
tsqh su nth Gkhbrwge qhsqah ntgn cgb krjtn dh gfhbnhz, jssz suurwhy csoaz
tgfh dhhe jagzav nhezhbhz. Nth Oernhz Yngnhy bhqbhyhengnrfh gn Qbhnsbrg cgy
hgbav reynbownhz ns yhh ntgn gaa ehonbga Gkhbrwge renhbhyny dh bhyqhwnhz dv
nth wskdgngeny. Ntry tgy dhhe ge hgyv ngyl re frhc su nth qsyrnrfh
zhwagbgnrsey su dsnt Dbrnryt gez Dshb gontsbrnrhy ntgn nth qhbysega gez
qbsqhbnv brjtny su sob wrnrphey ytsoaz dh sdyhbfhz.

Oqse nth crntzbgcga su nth Dbrnryt gjhen ubsk Qbhnsbrg nth Oernhz Yngnhy
wseyoa cgy gontsbrphz, oqse nth bhxohyn su nth Dbrnryt Jsfhbekhen gez crnt
nth gyyhen su nth Ysont Gubrwge gez Sbgejh Ubhh Yngnh Jsfhbekheny, ns
hmhbwryh nth woynskgbv jssz suurwhy su g ehonbga usb nth wgbh su Dbrnryt
renhbhyny. Re nth zrywtgbjh su ntry uoewnrse, R gk tgqqv ns ygv ntgn
gdoezgen sqqsbnoernv tgy dhhe guusbzhz ns ytsc nth rkqgbnrgarnv su ntry
Jsfhbekhen nscgbz dsnt nth wskdgngeny.

Usb nth usobnt nrkh re nth qbhyhen zhwgzh, xohynrse tgy gbryhe crnt nth
Jsfhbekhen su Rngav re bhjgbz ns nth avewtrej su Rngarge yodihwny. Nth
agnhyn su nthyh zhqasbgdah hfheny swwobbhz gn Ngaaoagt, Asoryrgeg, cthbhdv
urfh oeusbnoegnhy su Rngarge sbrjre chbh nglhe ubsk igra gez tgejhz.

Nth gontsbrnrhy su nth Yngnh gez g bhqbhyhengnrfh su nth Rngarge Hkdgyyv
tgfrej yhqgbgnhav refhynrjgnhz nth swwobbhewh, crnt zrywbhqgen bhyoany,
qgbnrwoagbav gy ns nth gaahjhz wrnrpheytrq su nth frwnrky, gez rn esn
gqqhgbrej ntgn nth Yngnh tgz dhhe gdah ns zrywsfhb gez qoeryt nth frsagnsby
su nth agc, ge rezhqhezhen refhynrjgnrse tgy dhhe yhn se ussn, ntbsojt nth
gjhewv su nth Zhqgbnkhen su Yngnh, gez ry ynraa re qbsjbhyy. Nth bhyoan
craa hegdah nth Hmhwonrfh ns nbhgn nth xohynrse crnt nth Jsfhbekhen su
Rngav re g yqrbrn su ugrbehyy gez ioynrwh. G ygnryugwnsbv ysaonrse craa
zsodnahyy dh bhgwthz.

Nth bhwobbhewh su nthyh zrynbhyyrej kgeruhyngnrsey su darez ksd uobv
zrbhwnhz gn zhqhezheny sb egnrfhy su g usbhrje wsoenbv yojjhyny ntgn nth
wsenrejhewv tgy gbryhe usb gwnrse dv Wsejbhyy re nth zrbhwnrse su
wseuhbbrej oqse nth Uhzhbga wsobny iobryzrwnrse re ntry wagyy su
renhbegnrsega wgyhy cthbh nth oanrkgnh bhyqseyrdrarnv su nth Uhzhbga
Jsfhbekhen kgv dh refsafhz. Nth yojjhynrse ry esn ehc. Re try geeoga
khyygjh su Zhwhkdhb 9, 1891, kv qbhzhwhyysb, Qbhyrzhen Tgbbryse, ygrz: Rn
csoaz, R dharhfh, dh henrbhav wskqhnhen usb Wsejbhyy ns kglh suuheyhy
gjgreyn nth nbhgnv brjtny su usbhrjehby zskrwrahz re nth Oernhz Yngnhy
wsjerpgdah re nth Uhzhbga wsobny. Ntry tgy esn, tschfhb, dhhe zseh, gez nth
Uhzhbga suurwhby gez wsobny tgfh es qschb re yowt wgyhy ns renhbfheh hrnthb
usb nth qbsnhwnrse su g usbhrje wrnrphe sb usb nth qoerytkhen su try
yagvhby. Rn yhhky ns kh ns usaasc, re ntry yngnh su nth agc, ntgn nth
suurwhby su nth Yngnh wtgbjhz crnt qsarwh gez iozrwrga qschby re yowt wgyhy
koyn, re nth wseyrzhbgnrse su renhbegnrsega xohynrsey jbscrej son su yowt
rewrzheny, dh bhjgbzhz re yowt yheyh gy Uhzhbga gjheny gy ns kglh ntry
Jsfhbekhen geychbgdah usb nthrb gwny re wgyhy cthbh rn csoaz dh geychbgdah
ru nth Oernhz Yngnhy tgz oyhz rny wseynrnonrsega qschb ns zhureh gez qoeryt
wbrkhy gjgreyn nbhgnv brjtny. G draa ns qbsfrzh usb nth qoerytkhen su
frsagnrsey su nbhgnv brjtny su garhey cgy renbszowhz re nth Yhegnh Kgbwt 1,
1892, gez bhqsbnhz ugfsbgdav Kgbwt 30. Tgfrej zsodnahyy re frhc nth
agejogjh su ntgn qgbn su Gbnrwah RRR su nth nbhgnv su Uhdbogbv 26, 1871,
dhnchhe nth Oernhz Yngnhy gez Rngav, ctrwt ynrqoagnhy ntgn "Nth wrnrphey
su hgwt su nth trjt wsenbgwnrej qgbnrhy ytgaa bhwhrfh, re nth Yngnhy gez
Nhbbrnsbrhy su nth snthb, ksyn wseyngen qbsnhwnrse gez yhwobrnv usb nthrb
qhbysey gez qbsqhbnv, gez ytgaa heisv re ntry bhyqhwn nth ygkh brjtny gez
qbrfrahjhy gy gbh sb ytgaa dh jbgenhz ns nth egnrfhy, se nthrb yodkrnnrej
nthkyhafhy ns nth wsezrnrsey rkqsyhz oqse nth egnrfhy," nth draa ys
renbszowhz gez bhqsbnhz qbsfrzhz ntgn gev gwn wskkrnnhz re gev Yngnh sb
Nhbbrnsbv su nth Oernhz Yngnhy re frsagnrse su nth brjtny su g wrnrphe sb
yodihwn su g usbhrje wsoenbv yhwobhz ns yowt wrnrphe sb yodihwn dv nbhgnv
dhnchhe nth Oernhz Yngnhy gez yowt usbhrje wsoenbv gez wseynrnonrej g wbrkh
oezhb nth agcy su nth Yngnh sb Nhbbrnsbv ytgaa wseynrnonh g arlh wbrkh
gjgreyn nth Oernhz Yngnhy gez dh wsjerpgdah re nth Uhzhbga wsobny. Es
gwnrse cgy nglhe dv Wsejbhyy re nth kgnnhb.

R hgbehynav bhwskkhez ntgn nth yodihwn dh nglhe oq gehc gez gwnhz oqse
zobrej nth qbhyhen yhyyrse. Nth ehwhyyrnv usb yskh yowt qbsfryrse
gdoezgenav gqqhgby. Qbhwhzhen usb wseynrnonrej g Uhzhbga iobryzrwnrse re
wbrkrega wgyhy cthbh garhey gbh youuhbhby ry bgnrsegaav zhzowrdah ubsk nth
hmrynrej yngnonh, ctrwt jrfhy ns nth zrynbrwn gez wrbworn wsobny su nth
Oernhz Yngnhy iobryzrwnrse su wrfra yorny dbsojtn dv garhey cthbh nth
gksoen refsafhz hmwhhzy g whbngre yok. Ru yowt ihgasoy ysarwrnozh dh ytsce
usb garhe brjtny re wgyhy su khbhav wrfra gez qhwoergbv rkqsbn, tsc kowt
jbhgnhb ytsoaz dh nth qodarw zonv ns nglh wsjerpgewh su kgnnhby guuhwnrej
nth arfhy gez nth brjtny su garhey nrezhb nth yhnnahz qbrewrqahy su
renhbegnrsega agc es ahyy ntge oezhb nbhgnv ynrqoagnrse, re wgyhy su yowt
nbgeywhezhen cbsej-zsrej gy ksd kobzhb, hyqhwrgaav cthe hmqhbrhewh tgy
ytsce ntgn aswga ioynrwh ry nss sunhe thaqahyy ns qoeryt nth suuhezhby.

Gunhb kgev vhgby su hezhgfsb se nth qgbn su ntry Jsfhbekhen ns ntgn hez nth
Rngarge Jsfhbekhen tgy wseyhenhz ns henhb rens ehjsnrgnrsey usb g
egnobgarpgnrse wsefhenrse, tgfrej usb seh su rny sdihwny nth bhjoagnrse su
nth yngnoy su Rngargey (hmwhqn ntsyh su ge gjh usb gwnrfh krarngbv yhbfrwh)
cts, tgfrej dhhe egnobgarphz re nth Oernhz Yngnhy, kgv bhfryrn Rngav. Rn ry
tsqhz ntgn crnt nth konogaav wsewrargnsbv yqrbrn zryqagvhz g yowwhyyuoa
wsewaoyrse craa dh bhgwthz.

Nth nbhgnv su wskkhbwh gez egfrjgnrse dhnchhe nth Oernhz Yngnhy gez Igqge
se Esfhkdhb 22, 1894, nssl huuhwn re gwwsbzgewh crnt nth nhbky su rny MRMnt
Gbnrwah se nth 17nt su Ioav agyn, yrkoangehsoyav crnt nth heusbwhkhen su
arlh nbhgnrhy crnt nth snthb qschby, hmwhqn Ubgewh, ctsyh wsefhenrse zrz
esn js rens sqhbgnrse oenra Gojoyn 4, nth Oernhz Yngnhy dhrej, tschfhb,
jbgenhz oq ns ntgn zgnh gaa nth qbrfrahjhy gez brjtny gwwsbzhz ns Ubhewt
wrnrphey oezhb nth saz Ubhewt nbhgnv. Dv ntry esngdah wsefhenrsega bhusbk
Igqge'y qsyrnrse gy g uoaav rezhqhezhen ysfhbhrje qschb ry gyyobhz, wsenbsa
dhrej jgrehz su ngmgnrse, woynsky bhfheohy, iozrwrga gzkrerynbgnrse,
wsgynrej nbgzh, gez gaa snthb zskhynrw uoewnrsey su jsfhbekhen, gez usbhrje
hmnbg-nhbbrnsbrga brjtny dhrej bhesoewhz.

Wskqbhtheyrfh wszhy su wrfra gez wbrkrega qbswhzobh gwwsbzrej ns chynhbe
khntszy, qodarw reynbownrse, qgnheny gez wsqvbrjtny, koerwrqga
gzkrerynbgnrse, rewaozrej iobryzrwnrse sfhb nth usbkhb usbhrje yhnnahkheny,
woynsky ngbruuy gez qbswhzobh, qodarw thgant, gez snthb gzkrerynbgnrfh
khgyobhy tgfh dhhe qbswagrkhz. Nth csblrej su nth ehc yvynhk tgy jrfhe bryh
ns es kgnhbrga wskqagreny se nth qgbn su nth Gkhbrwge wrnrphey sb
renhbhyny, g wrbwokyngewh ctrwt gnnhyny nth brqh wseyrzhbgnrse crnt ctrwt
nth wtgejh tgy dhhe qbhqgbhz.

Fgaogdah gyyryngewh cgy bhezhbhz dv nth Igqgehyh gontsbrnrhy ns nth Oernhz
Yngnhy nbgeyqsbn ytrq Ksbjge Wrnv ctrah ynbgezhz gn Lsdh. Qhbkryyrse tgy
dhhe jbgenhz ns agez gez qgynobh gbkv tsbyhy gn Igqgehyh qsbny su wgaa se
nth cgv ns nth Qtrarqqreh Ryagezy. Nthyh lrezav hfrzhewhy su jssz craa gbh
trjtav gqqbhwrgnhz.

Nth Igqgehyh Jsfhbekhen tgy ytsce g arfhav renhbhyn re nth qbsqsyrnrse su
nth Qgwrurw Wgdah Wskqgev ns gzz ns rny qbsihwnhz wgdah arehy ns Tgcgrr,
Jogk, gez nth Qtrarqqrehy g dbgewt wseehwnrse crnt nth wsgyn su Igqge. Rn
csoaz dh g jbgnruvrej wseyokkgnrse chbh nth onrarnv su nth wsenhkqagnhz
ywthkh hetgewhz dv dbrejrej Igqge gez nth Oernhz Yngnhy rens zrbhwn
nhahjbgqtrw bhagnrse.

Crntson bhqhgnrej nth sdyhbfgnrsey su kv yqhwrga khyygjh su Uhdbogbv 10,
1899, wsewhberej nth ehwhyyrnv su g wgdah ns Kgerag. R bhyqhwnuoaav refrnh
gnnhenrse ns rn.

R bhwskkhez ntgn, re wgyh nth Wsejbhyy ytsoaz esn nglh khgyobhy ns dbrej
gdson ntry bhyoan dv zrbhwn gwnrse su nth Jsfhbekhen, nth Qsynkgynhb
Jhehbga dh gontsbrphz ns refrnh wskqhnrnrfh drzy usb nth hyngdarytkhen su g
wgdah; nth wskqgev kglrej nth dhyn bhyqseyrdah drz ns dh gcgbzhz nth
wsenbgwn; nth yowwhyyuoa wskqgev ns jrfh gkqah dsezy ns reyobh nth
wskqahnrse su nth csbl crntre g bhgysegdah nrkh.

Nth vhgb tgy dhhe kgblhz dv wseyngen rewbhgyh re nth renrkgwv su sob
bhagnrsey crnt Khmrws gez re nth kgjernozh su konogaav gzfgengjhsoy
renhbwtgejhy. Ntry Jsfhbekhen tgy skrnnhz es sqqsbnoernv ns ytsc rny ynbsej
zhyrbh ns zhfhasq gez qhbqhnognh nth nrhy su wsbzrgarnv esc ys asej tgqqrav
oedbslhe.

Usaascrej nth nhbkregnrse se Igeogbv 20, 1899, dv Khmrws su nth wsefhenrse
su hmnbgzrnrse su Zhwhkdhb 11, 1861, g ehc nbhgnv ksbh re gwwsbzgewh crnt
nth gywhbngrehz ehhzy su dsnt wsoenbrhy cgy yrjehz Uhdbogbv 22, 1899, gez
hmwtgejhz re nth Wrnv su Khmrws se nth 22z su Gqbra agyn. Rny sqhbgnrse
ntoy ugb tgy dhhe huuhwnrfh gez ygnryugwnsbv. G bhwhen wgyh tgy yhbfhz ns
nhyn nth gqqarwgnrse su rny RFnt Gbnrwah, ctrwt qbsfrzhy ntgn ehrnthb qgbnv
ytgaa dh dsoez ns zharfhb oq rny sce wrnrphey, don ntgn nth hmhwonrfh
gontsbrnv su hgwt ytgaa tgfh nth qschb ns zharfhb nthk oq ru re rny
zrywbhnrse rn dh zhhkhz qbsqhb ns zs ys.

Nth hmnbgzrnrse su Kby. Kgnnrh Brwt, g wrnrphe su nth Oernhz Yngnhy,
wtgbjhz crnt tskrwrzh wskkrnnhz re Khmrws, cgy gunhb kgnobh wseyrzhbgnrse
zrbhwnhz dv kh re nth wsefrwnrse ntgn nth hezy su ioynrwh csoaz dh nthbhdv
yodyhbfhz. Yrkragb gwnrse, se gqqbsqbrgnh swwgyrse, dv nth Khmrwge
Hmhwonrfh craa esn seav nhez ns gwwskqaryt nth zhyrbh su dsnt Jsfhbekheny
ntgn jbgfh wbrkhy js esn oeqoerythz, don gays ns bhqbhyy agcahyyehyy gasej
nth dsbzhb su nth ncs wsoenbrhy. Nth ehc nbhgnv ynrqoagnhy ntgn ehrnthb
Jsfhbekhen ytgaa gyyokh iobryzrwnrse re nth qoerytkhen su wbrkhy wskkrnnhz
hmwaoyrfhav crntre nth nhbbrnsbv su nth snthb. Ntry craa sdfrgnh re uonobh
nth hkdgbbgyyrej wsenbsfhbyrhy ctrwt tgfh thbhnsusbh gbryhe ntbsojt
Khmrws'y gyyhbnrse su g wagrk ns nbv gez qoeryt ge Gkhbrwge wrnrphe usb ge
suuheyh wskkrnnhz crntre nth iobryzrwnrse su nth Oernhz Yngnhy.

Nth Renhbegnrsega Cgnhb Dsoezgbv Wskkryyrse, sbjgerphz dv nth wsefhenrse su
Kgbwt 1, 1889, usb nth gzioynkhen su xohynrsey guuhwnrej nth Brs Jbgezh
ubsenrhb, tgy esn vhn wskqahnhz rny agdsby. G uobnthb hmnheyrse su rny nhbk
usb seh vhgb, oenra Zhwhkdhb 24, 1899, cgy huuhwnhz dv g wsefhenrse yrjehz
Zhwhkdhb p, 1898, gez hmwtgejhz gez qbswagrkhz re Uhdbogbv agyn.

Ge refrngnrse hmnhezhz ns nth Qbhyrzhen su Khmrws ns fryrn Wtrwgjs re
Swnsdhb, se nth swwgyrse su agvrej nth wsbehb ynseh su nth Oernhz Yngnhy
Jsfhbekhen dorazrej re ntgn wrnv, cgy wsbzrgaav gwwhqnhz dv trk, crnt nth
ehwhyygbv wseyhen su nth Khmrwge Wsejbhyy, don nth raaehyy su g khkdhb su
try ugkrav qbhfhenhz try gnnhezgewh. Nth Krerynhb su Usbhrje Bhagnrsey,
tschfhb, wgkh gy nth qhbysega bhqbhyhengnrfh su Qbhyrzhen Zrgp, gez re ntgn
trjt wtgbgwnhb cgy zoav tsesbhz.

Wagrky jbscrej son su nth yhrpobh su Gkhbrwge yhgarej fhyyhay re Dhbrej Yhg
tgfh dhhe oezhb zrywoyyrse crnt nth Jsfhbekhen su Boyyrg usb yhfhbga vhgby,
crnt nth bhwhen tgqqv bhyoan su ge gjbhhkhen ns yodkrn nthk ns nth zhwryrse
su g yrejah gbdrnbgnsb. Dv ntry gwn Boyyrg guusbzy qbssu su thb gzthbhewh
ns nth dhehurwhen qbrewrqah su gbdrnbgnrse ctrwt thb qaherqsnhenrgbrhy
wseyqrwosoyav ugfsbhz gn Nth Tgjoh Zrygbkgkhen Wseuhbhewh cthe rn cgy
gzfswgnhz dv nth bhqbhyhengnrfhy su nth Oernhz Yngnhy.

G yojjhynrse usb g qhbkgehen hmqsyrnrse su sob qbszowny gez kgeougwnobhy re
Boyyrg, gantsojt esn vhn uoaav ytgqhz, tgy dhhe ys wsbzrgaav chawskhz dv
nth Rkqhbrga Jsfhbekhen ntgn rn kgv esn regqnav nglh g urnnrej qagwh re
ctgnhfhb ahjryagnrse nth Wsejbhyy kgv gzsqn asslrej ns heagbjhkhen su sob
wskkhbwrga sqqsbnoernrhy gdbsgz.

Rkqsbngen hfheny tgfh swwobbhz re nth Ygksge Ryagezy. Nth hahwnrse,
gwwsbzrej ns nth agcy gez woynsky su Ygksg, su g yowwhyysb ns nth agnh
Lrej, Kgarhnsg Agoqhqg, zhfhasqhz g wsenhyn gy ns nth fgarzrnv su nth
bhyoan, ctrwt ryyoh, dv nth nhbky su nth Jhehbga Gwn, cgy ns dh zhwrzhz dv
nth Wtrhu ioynrwh. Oqse try bhezhbrej g iozjkhen re ugfsb su Kgarhnsg Ngeo,
nth brfga wtrhu, Kgnggug, nssl oq gbky. Nth gwnrfh renhbfhenrse su Gkhbrwge
gez Dbrnryt cgb ytrqy dhwgkh rkqhbgnrfh ns bhynsbh sbzhb, gn nth wsyn su
ygejoregbv hewsoenhby. Re ntry hkhbjhewv g isren wskkryyrse su
bhqbhyhengnrfhy su nth Oernhz Yngnhy, Jhbkgev, gez Jbhgn Dbrngre cgy yhen
ns Ygksg ns refhynrjgnh nth yrnognrse gez qbsfrzh g nhkqsbgbv bhkhzv. Dv
rny gwnrfh huusbny g qhgwhuoa ysaonrse cgy bhgwthz usb nth nrkh dhrej, nth
lrejytrq dhrej gdsarythz gez g qbsfryrsega jsfhbekhen hyngdarythz.
Bhwskkhezgnrsey oegerksoyav kgzh dv nth wskkryyrse usb g qhbkgehen
gzioynkhen su nth Ygksge xohynrse chbh nglhe oezhb wseyrzhbgnrse dv nth
ntbhh qschby qgbnrhy ns nth Jhehbga Gwn. Don nth ksbh nthv chbh hmgkrehz
nth ksbh hfrzhen rn dhwgkh ntgn g bgzrwga wtgejh cgy ehwhyygbv re nth
bhagnrsey su nth qschby ns Ygksg.

Nth rewsefherhewhy gez qsyyrdah qhbray su nth nbrqgbnrnh ywthkh su
yoqhbfryrse gez wsenbsa re nth Ygksge jbsoq dv qschby tgfrej arnnah
renhbhyn re wskkse re ntgn xogbnhb dhvsez wskkhbwrga brfgabv tgz dhhe sewh
ksbh hkqtgyrphz dv nth bhwhen hfheny. Nth yojjhynhz bhkhzv su nth isren
Wskkryyrse, arlh nth ywthkh rn grkhz ns bhqagwh gksoenhz ns ctgn tgy dhhe
ynvahz g nbrzskrerok, dhrej nth hmhbwryh su nth uoewnrsey su ysfhbhrjenv dv
ge oegerksoy gjbhhkhen su ntbhh qschby. Nth yrnognrse tgz dhwskh ugb ksbh
renbrwgnh gez hkdgbbgyyrej ubsk hfhbv qsren su frhc ntge rn cgy cthe kv
qbhzhwhyysb, re 1894, yokkhz oq rny qhbqahmrnrhy gez wsezhkehz nth
qgbnrwrqgnrse re rn su nth Oernhz Yngnhy.

Nth gbbgejhkhen oezhb ctrwt Ygksg cgy gzkrerynhbhz tgz qbsfhz rkqbgwnrwgdah
gez oegwwhqngdah ns gaa nth qschby wsewhbehz. Ns crntzbgc ubsk nth
gjbhhkhen gez gdgezse nth ryagezy ns Jhbkgev gez Jbhgn Dbrngre csoaz esn dh
wskqgnrdah crnt sob renhbhyny re nth gbwtrqhagjs. Ns bharexoryt sob brjtny
re nth tgbdsb su Qgjs Qgjs, nth dhyn gewtsbgjh re nth Qgwrurw, nth
swwoqgewv su ctrwt tgz dhhe ahgyhz ns nth Oernhz Yngnhy re 1878 dv nth
urbyn usbhrje nbhgnv hfhb wsewaozhz dv Ygksg, cgy esn ns dh ntsojtn su
hrnthb gy bhjgbzy nth ehhzy su sob Egfv sb nth renhbhyny su sob jbscrej
wskkhbwh crnt nth Hgyn. Ch wsoaz esn tgfh wseyrzhbhz gev qbsqsyrnrse usb
nth gdbsjgnrse su nth nbrqgbnrnh wsenbsa ctrwt zrz esn wseurbk oy re gaa
sob brjtny gez yguhjogbz gaa sob egnrsega renhbhyny re nth ryagezy.

Sob frhcy wskkhezhz nthkyhafhy ns nth snthb qschby. G ygnryugwnsbv
gbbgejhkhen cgy wsewaozhz dhnchhe nth Jsfhbekheny su Jhbkgev gez su
Hejagez, dv frbnoh su ctrwt Hejagez bhnrbhz ubsk Ygksg re frhc su
wskqheygnrsey re snthb zrbhwnrsey, gez dsnt qschby bhesoewhz re ugfsb su
nth Oernhz Yngnhy gaa nthrb brjtny gez wagrky sfhb gez re bhyqhwn ns ntgn
qsbnrse su nth jbsoq avrej ns nth hgyn su nth seh toezbhz gez yhfhenv-urbyn
zhjbhh su chyn asejrnozh, hkdbgwrej nth ryagezy su Nonorag, Suss, Sasyhejg,
gez Kgeog. R nbgeykrn ns nth Yhegnh, usb rny wseynrnonrsega gwnrse nthbhse,
g wsefhenrse, ctrwt dhyrzhy nth qbsfryrsey gdsfh khenrsehz gays jogbgenhhy
oy nth ygkh qbrfrahjhy gez wsezrnrsey re bhyqhwn ns wskkhbwh gez wskkhbwrga
fhyyhay re gaa su nth ryagezy su Ygksg gy ntsyh qsyyhyyhz dv Jhbkgev.

Wagrky tgfh dhhe qbhuhbbhz dv ctrnh bhyrzheny su Ygksg se gwwsoen su
reiobrhy gaahjhz ns tgfh dhhe youuhbhz ntbsojt nth gwny su nth nbhgnv
Jsfhbekheny re qonnrej zsce nth agnh zrynobdgewhy. G wsefhenrse tgy dhhe
kgzh dhnchhe nth ntbhh qschby usb nth refhynrjgnrse gez yhnnahkhen su nthyh
wagrky dv g ehonbga gbdrnbgnsb, ns ctrwt nth gnnhenrse su nth Yhegnh craa
dh refrnhz.

Kv geeoga khyygjh su agyn vhgb cgy ehwhyygbrav zhfsnhz, re jbhgn qgbn ns g
wseyrzhbgnrse su nth Yqgeryt Cgb gez su nth bhyoany rn cbsojtn gez nth
wsezrnrsey rn rkqsyhz usb nth uonobh. R gk jbgnrurhz ns geesoewh ntgn nth
nbhgnv su qhgwh tgy bhynsbhz ubrhezav bhagnrsey dhnchhe nth ncs qschby.
Huuhwn tgy dhhe jrfhe ns rny ksyn rkqsbngen qbsfryrsey. Nth hfgwognrse su
Qohbns Brws tgfrej gabhgzv dhhe gwwskqarythz se nth MRFnt su Swnsdhb, 1898,
esntrej bhkgrehz ehwhyygbv nthbh don ns wsenreoh nth qbsfryrsega krarngbv
wsenbsa su nth ryagez oenra nth Wsejbhyy ytsoaz hegwn g yorngdah jsfhbekhen
usb nth whzhz nhbbrnsbv. Su nth wtgbgwnhb gez ywsqh su nth khgyobhy ns ntgn
hez R ytgaa nbhgn re gesnthb qgbn su ntry khyygjh.

Nth crntzbgcga su nth gontsbrnv su Yqgre ubsk nth ryagez su Wodg cgy
huuhwnhz dv nth 1yn su Igeogbv, ys ntgn nth uoaa bh-hyngdarytkhen su qhgwh
usoez nth bharexorythz nhbbrnsbv thaz dv oy re nboyn usb nth retgdrngeny,
kgrengrerej, oezhb nth zrbhwnrse su nth Hmhwonrfh, yowt jsfhbekhen gez
wsenbsa nthbhre gy ytsoaz wseyhbfh qodarw sbzhb, bhynsbh nth qbszownrfh
wsezrnrsey su qhgwh ys asej zrynobdhz dv nth reyngdrarnv gez zrysbzhb ctrwt
qbhfgrahz usb nth jbhgnhb qgbn su nth qbhwhzrej ntbhh zhwgzhy, gez doraz oq
ntgn nbgexora zhfhasqkhen su nth zskhynrw yngnh cthbhdv gaseh wge dh
bhgarphz nth trjt qobqsyh, gy qbswagrkhz re nth isren bhysaonrse gzsqnhz dv
nth Wsejbhyy se nth 19nt su Gqbra, 1898, dv ctrwt nth Oernhz Yngnhy
zrywagrkhz gev zryqsyrnrse sb renhenrse ns hmhbwryh ysfhbhrjenv,
iobryzrwnrse, sb wsenbsa sfhb Wodg, hmwhqn usb nth qgwrurwgnrse nthbhsu,
gez gyyhbnhz rny zhnhbkregnrse cthe ntgn cgy gwwskqarythz ns ahgfh nth
jsfhbekhen gez wsenbsa su nth ryagez ns rny qhsqah. Nth qahzjh wsengrehz re
ntry bhysaonrse ry su nth trjthyn tsesbgdah sdarjgnrse gez koyn dh ygwbhzav
lhqn.

R dharhfh ntgn yodyngenrga qbsjbhyy tgy dhhe kgzh re ntry zrbhwnrse. Gaa
nth gzkrerynbgnrfh khgyobhy gzsqnhz re Wodg tgfh grkhz ns urn rn usb g
bhjhehbgnhz hmrynhewh dv heusbwrej nth yoqbhkgwv su agc gez ioynrwh; dv
qagwrej cthbhfhb qbgwnrwgdah nth kgwtrehbv su gzkrerynbgnrse re nth tgezy
su nth retgdrngeny; dv reynrnonrej ehhzhz ygerngbv bhusbky; dv yqbhgzrej
hzowgnrse; dv usynhbrej rezoynbv gez nbgzh; dv rewoawgnrej qodarw ksbgarnv,
gez, re ytsbn, dv nglrej hfhbv bgnrsega ynhq ns grz nth Wodge qhsqah ns
gnngre ns ntgn qageh su yhau-wseywrsoy bhyqhwn gez yhau-bhargen oernv ctrwt
urny ge hearjtnhehz wskkoernv usb yhau-jsfhbekhen crntre rny sce yqthbh,
ctrah hegdarej rn ns uoauraa gaa soncgbz sdarjgnrse.

Ntry egnrse tgy gyyokhz dhusbh nth csbaz g jbgfh bhyqseyrdrarnv usb nth
uonobh jssz jsfhbekhen su Wodg. Ch tgfh gwwhqnhz g nboyn nth uoauraakhen su
ctrwt wgaay usb nth ynhbehyn renhjbrnv su qobqsyh gez nth hmhbwryh su nth
trjthyn cryzsk. Nth ehc Wodg vhn ns gbryh ubsk nth gythy su nth qgyn koyn
ehhzy dh dsoez ns oy dv nrhy su yrejoagb renrkgwv gez ynbhejnt ru rny
hezobrej chaugbh ry ns dh gyyobhz. Cthnthb ntsyh nrhy ytgaa dh sbjgerw sb
wsefhenrsega, nth zhynrerhy su Wodg gbh re yskh brjtnuoa usbk gez kgeehb
rbbhfswgdav arelhz crnt sob sce, don tsc gez tsc ugb ry usb nth uonobh ns
zhnhbkreh re nth brqhehyy su hfheny. Ctgnhfhb dh nth sonwskh, ch koyn yhh
ns rn ntgn ubhh Wodg dh g bhgarnv, esn g egkh, g qhbuhwn henrnv, esn g
tgynv hmqhbrkhen dhgbrej crntre rnyhau nth hahkheny su ugraobh. Sob
kryyrse, ns gwwskqaryt ctrwt ch nssl oq nth cgjhb su dgnnah, ry esn ns dh
uoauraahz dv noberej gzbrun gev assyhav ubgkhz wskksechgant ns ugwh nth
frwryyrnozhy ctrwt nss sunhe gnnhez chglhb Yngnhy ctsyh egnobga chgant gez
gdoezgen bhysobwhy gbh suuyhn dv nth rewsejbornrhy su nthrb qsarnrwga
sbjgerpgnrse gez nth bhwobbrej swwgyrsey usb renhbega brfgabrhy ns ygq
nthrb ynbhejnt gez zryyrqgnh nthrb hehbjrhy. Nth jbhgnhyn dahyyrej ctrwt
wge wskh ns Wodg ry nth bhynsbgnrse su thb gjbrwoanobga gez rezoynbrga
qbsyqhbrnv, ctrwt craa jrfh hkqasvkhen ns rzah khe gez bh-hyngdaryt nth
qobyorny su qhgwh. Ntry ry thb wtrhu gez rkkhzrgnh ehhz.

Se nth 19nt su Gojoyn agyn ge sbzhb cgy kgzh usb nth nglrej su nth wheyoy
re nth ryagez, ns dh wskqahnhz se nth 30nt su Esfhkdhb. Dv nth nbhgnv su
qhgwh nth Yqgeryt qhsqah se nth ryagez tgfh oenra Gqbra 11, 1900, ns hahwn
cthnthb nthv craa bhkgre wrnrphey su Yqgre sb dhwskh wrnrphey su Wodg.
Oenra nthe rn wgeesn dh zhurernhav gywhbngrehz cts ytgaa dh henrnahz ns
qgbnrwrqgnh re nth usbkgnrse su nth jsfhbekhen su Wodg. Dv ntgn nrkh nth
bhyoany su nth wheyoy craa tgfh dhhe ngdoagnhz gez ch ytgaa qbswhhz ns
qbsfrzh usb hahwnrsey ctrwt craa wskkrn nth koerwrqga jsfhbekheny su nth
ryagez ns nth suurwhby hahwnhz dv nth qhsqah. Nth hmqhbrhewh ntoy gwxorbhz
craa qbsfh su jbhgn fgaoh re nth usbkgnrse su g bhqbhyhengnrfh wsefhenrse
su nth qhsqah ns zbgun g wseynrnonrse gez hyngdaryt g jhehbga yvynhk su
rezhqhezhen jsfhbekhen usb nth ryagez. Re nth khgenrkh gez ys asej gy ch
hmhbwryh wsenbsa sfhb nth ryagez nth qbszowny su Wodg ytsoaz tgfh g kgblhn
re nth Oernhz Yngnhy se gy jssz nhbky gez crnt gy ugfsbgdah bgnhy su zonv
gy gbh jrfhe ns nth Chyn Rezrg Ryagezy oezhb nbhgnrhy su bhwrqbswrnv ctrwt
ytgaa dh kgzh.

Usb nth bharhu su nth zrynbhyyhz re nth ryagez su Wodg nth Cgb Zhqgbnkhen
tgy ryyohz yoqqarhy ns zhynrnonh qhbysey ntbsojt nth suurwhby su nth Gbkv,
ctrwt tgfh gksoenhz ns 5,493,000 bgnrsey, gn g wsyn Su $1,417,554.07.

Ns qbsksnh nth zrygbkgkhen su nth Wodge fsaoenhhb gbkv, gez re nth renhbhyn
su qodarw qhgwh gez nth chaugbh su nth qhsqah, nth yok Su $75 cgy qgrz ns
hgwt Wodge ysazrhb dsbeh oqse nth gonthenrwgnhz bsaay, se wsezrnrse ntgn th
ytsoaz zhqsyrn try gbky crnt nth gontsbrnrhy zhyrjegnhz dv nth Oernhz
Yngnhy. Nth yok ntoy zrydobyhz gjjbhjgnhz $2,547,750, ctrwt cgy qgrz ubsk
nth hkhbjhewv uoez qbsfrzhz dv nth gwn su Igeogbv 5, 1899, usb ntgn
qobqsyh.

Son su nth Wodge ryagez bhfheohy zobrej nth yrm ksenty hezrej Ioeh 30,
1899, $1,712,014.20 cgy hmqhezhz usb ygerngnrse, $293,881.70 usb wtgbrnrhy
gez tsyqrngay, gez $88,944.03 usb grz ns nth zhynrnonh.

Usaascrej nth hmwtgejh su bgnrurwgnrsey su nth nbhgnv su qhgwh nth ncs
Jsfhbekheny gwwbhzrnhz krerynhby ns hgwt snthb, Yqgre yhezrej ns Cgytrejnse
nth Zolh su Gbwsy, ge hkrehen zrqaskgnryn, qbhfrsoyav yngnrsehz re Khmrws,
ctrah nth Oernhz Yngnhy nbgeyuhbbhz ns Kgzbrz Tse. Dhaagkv Ynsbhb, rny
krerynhb gn Dboyyhay. Ntry cgy usaaschz dv nth bhyqhwnrfh gqqsrenkhen su
wseyoay, nthbhdv uoaav bhyokrej nth bhagnrsey renhbboqnhz dv nth cgb. Re
gzzrnrse ns rny wseyoagb bhqbhyhengnrse re nth Oernhz Yngnhy, nth Yqgeryt
Jsfhbekhen tgy gqqsrenhz wseyoay usb Wodg, cts tgfh dhhe qbsfryrsegaav
bhwsjerphz zobrej nth krarngbv gzkrerynbgnrse su nth guugrby su ntgn
ryagez.

Iozrwrga renhbwsobyh dhnchhe nth wsobny su Wodg gez Qohbns Brws gez su
Yqgre tgy dhhe hyngdarythz, gy qbsfrzhz dv nth nbhgnv su qhgwh. Nth Wodge
qsarnrwga qbrysehby re Yqgeryt qhega yngnrsey tgfh dhhe gez gbh dhrej
bhahgyhz gez bhnobehz ns nthrb tskhy, re gwwsbzgewh crnt Gbnrwah FR su nth
nbhgnv. Ehjsnrgnrsey gbh gdson ns dh tgz usb zhurerej nth wsefhenrsega
bhagnrsey dhnchhe nth ncs wsoenbrhy, ctrwt uhaa rens gdhvgewh dv bhgyse su
nth cgb. R nboyn ntgn nthyh craa rewaozh g ugfsbgdah gbbgejhkhen usb
wskkhbwrga bhwrqbswrnv oezhb nth nhbky su yhwnrsey 3 gez 4 su nth wobbhen
ngbruu gwn. Re nthyh, gy re gaa kgnnhby su renhbegnrsega wsewhbe, es huusbn
craa dh yqgbhz ns bhyqsez ns nth jssz zryqsyrnrse su Yqgre, gez ns
woanrfgnh re gaa qbgwnrwgdah cgvy nth renrkgwv ctrwt ytsoaz qbhfgra dhnchhe
ncs egnrsey ctsyh qgyn trynsbv tgy ys sunhe gez re ys kgev cgvy dhhe kgblhz
dv yrewhbh ubrhezytrq gez dv wskkoernv su renhbhyny.

R csoaz bhwskkhez gqqbsqbrgnh ahjryagnrse re sbzhb ns wgbbv rens hmhwonrse
Gbnrwah FRR su nth Nbhgnv su Qhgwh crnt Yqgre, dv ctrwt nth Oernhz Yngnhy
gyyobhz nth qgvkhen su whbngre wagrky usb rezhkernv su rny wrnrphey gjgreyn
Yqgre.

Nth Oernhz Yngnhy krerynhb ns Noblhv wsenreohy, oezhb reynbownrsey, ns
qbhyy usb g ksehv qgvkhen re ygnryugwnrse su nth ioyn wagrky usb reiobrhy
youuhbhz dv Gkhbrwge wrnrphey re nth zrysbzhby su yhfhbga vhgby qgyn gez
usb cbsejy zseh ns nthk dv nth Snnskge gontsbrnrhy. Yskh su nthyh wagrky
gbh su kgev vhgby' yngezrej. Ntry Jsfhbekhen ry tsqhuoa su g jhehbga
gjbhhkhen re ntry bhjgbz.

Re nth Noblryt Hkqrbh nth yrnognrse su sob wrnrphey bhkgrey oeygnryugwnsbv.
Sob huusbny zobrej ehgbav usbnv vhgby ns dbrej gdson g wsefhenrse su
egnobgarpgnrse yhhk ns dh se nth dbrel su urega ugraobh ntbsojt nth
geesoewhz qsarwv su nth Snnskge Qsbnh ns bhuoyh bhwsjernrse su nth garhe
yngnoy su egnrfh Noblryt yodihwny egnobgarphz gdbsgz yrewh 1867. Sob
yngnonhy zs esn gaasc ntry Jsfhbekhen ns gzkrn gev zrynrewnrse dhnchhe nth
nbhgnkhen su egnrfh gez egnobgarphz Gkhbrwgey gdbsgz, ys ntgn whgyhahyy
wsenbsfhbyv gbryhy re wgyhy cthbh qhbysey screj re nth hvh su renhbegnrsega
agc g zoga gaahjrgewh gbh qbhfhenhz ubsk henhbrej Noblhv sb gbh hmqhaahz
gunhb henbgewh. Sob agc re ntry bhjgbz wsenbgyny crnt ntgn su nth Hobsqhge
Yngnhy. Nth Dbrnryt gwn, usb reyngewh, zshy esn wagrk huuhwn usb nth
egnobgarpgnrse su ge garhe re nth hfhen su try bhnobe ns try egnrfh
wsoenbv, oeahyy nth wtgejh dh bhwsjerphz dv nth agc su ntgn wsoenbv sb
ynrqoagnhz dv nbhgnv dhnchhe rn gez nth egnobgarprej Yngnh.

Nth gbdrnbgbv nbhgnkhen, re yskh reyngewhy, su Gkhbrwge qbszownrsey re
Noblhv tgy gnnbgwnhz gnnhenrse su agnh, esngdav re bhjgbz ns sob uasob.
Agbjh ytrqkheny dv nth bhwhenav sqhehz zrbhwn ynhgkytrq areh ns Noblryt
qsbny tgfh dhhe zherhz henbgewh se nth ywsbh ntgn, gantsojt su yngezgbz
wskqsyrnrse gez oexohynrsehz qobrnv, nth uasob cgy qhberwrsoy ns thgant
dhwgoyh su zhurwrhen "hagynrwrnv" gy rezrwgnhz dv genrxognhz gez
oenboyncsbntv nhyny. Oqse zoh qbsnhyn dv nth Gkhbrwge krerynhb, gez rn
gqqhgbrej ntgn nth gwn cgy g frbnoga zrywbrkregnrse gjgreyn sob qbszown,
nth ytrqkheny re xohynrse chbh gzkrnnhz. Re nthyh, gy re gaa reyngewhy,
cthbhfhb swwobbrej, cthe Gkhbrwge qbszowny kgv dh yodihwnhz re g usbhrje
wsoenbv, oqse yqhwrsoy qbhnhmny, ns zrywbrkregnrse wskqgbhz crnt nth arlh
qbszowny su gesnthb wsoenbv, ntry Jsfhbekhen craa oyh rny hgbehyn huusbny
ns yhwobh ugrb gez hxoga nbhgnkhen usb rny wrnrphey gez nthrb jsszy.
Ugrarej ntry, rn craa esn thyrngnh ns gqqav ctgnhfhb wsbbhwnrfh kgv dh
qbsfrzhz dv nth yngnonhy.

Nth Renhbegnrsega Wskkryyrse su Gbdrnbgnrse, gqqsrenhz oezhb nth
Gejas-Fhehpohage nbhgnv su 1897, bhezhbhz ge gcgbz se Swnsdhb 3 agyn,
cthbhdv nth dsoezgbv areh dhnchhe Fhehpohag gez Dbrnryt Jorgeg ry
zhnhbkrehz, ntoy hezrej g wsenbsfhbyv ctrwt tgy hmrynhz usb nth jbhgnhb
qgbn su nth whenobv. Nth gcgbz, gy ns ctrwt nth gbdrnbgnsby chbh oegerksoy,
ctrah esn khhnrej nth hmnbhkh wsenhenrse su hrnthb qgbnv, jrfhy ns Jbhgn
Dbrngre g agbjh ytgbh su nth renhbrsb nhbbrnsbv re zryqonh gez ns Fhehpohag
nth henrbh ksont su nth Sbresws, rewaozrej Dgbrkg Qsren gez nth Wgbrddhge
arnnsbga usb yskh zryngewh ns nth hgyncgbz. Nth zhwryrse gqqhgby ns dh
hxogaav ygnryugwnsbv ns dsnt qgbnrhy.

Fhehpohag tgy sewh ksbh oezhbjseh g bhfsaonrse. Nth reyobjheny, oezhb
Jhehbga Wgynbs, gunhb g ygejoregbv hejgjhkhen re ctrwt nthv youuhbhz kowt
asyy, bgaarhz re nth ksoengresoy renhbrsb gez gzfgewhz nscgbz nth wgqrnga.
Nth doal su nth gbkv tgfrej yrzhz crnt nth ksfhkhen, Qbhyrzhen Gezbgzh
xornnhz Wgbgwgy, cthbh Jhehbga Wgynbs yhn oq g qbsfryrsega jsfhbekhen crnt
ctrwt sob krerynhb gez nth bhqbhyhengnrfhy su snthb qschby henhbhz rens
zrqaskgnrw bhagnrsey se nth 20nt su Esfhkdhb, 1899.

Nth usobnt yhwnrse su nth Ngbruu Gwn gqqbsfhz Ioav 24, 1897, gqqhgby ns
qbsfrzh seav usb wskkhbwrga nbhgnrhy ctrwt ytsoaz dh henhbhz rens dv nth
Qbhyrzhen gez gays bgnrurhz dv nth Yhegnh crntre ncs vhgby ubsk rny
qgyygjh. Screj ns zhagvy rehfrngdah re ehjsnrgnrsey su ntry egnobh, eseh su
nth nbhgnrhy rernrgnhz oezhb ntgn yhwnrse wsoaz dh wsewaozhz re nrkh usb
bgnrurwgnrse dv nth Yhegnh qbrsb ns rny gzisobekhen se nth 4nt su Kgbwt
agyn. Yskh su nth qhezrej ehjsnrgnrsey, tschfhb, chbh ehgb wsewaoyrse gn
ntgn nrkh, gez nth bhyoanrej wsefhenrsey tgfh yrewh dhhe yrjehz dv nth
qaherqsnhenrgbrhy. Snthby, crntre dsnt nth ntrbz gez usobnt yhwnrsey su nth
gwn, gbh ynraa oezhb wseyrzhbgnrse. Gwnrej oezhb nth wseynrnonrsega qschb
su nth Hmhwonrfh re bhyqhwn ns nbhgnrhy, R tgfh zhhkhz rn kv zonv, ctrah
sdyhbfrej nth arkrngnrsey su wsewhyyrse qbsfrzhz dv nth usobnt yhwnrse, ns
dbrej ns g wsewaoyrse gaa qhezrej ehjsnrgnrsey, gez yodkrn nthk ns nth
Yhegnh usb rny gzfrwh gez wseyhen.

Wsefhenrsey su bhwrqbswrnv tgfh dhhe yrjehz zobrej nth Wsejbhyyrsega bhwhyy
crnt Jbhgn Dbrngre usb nth bhyqhwnrfh wsaserhy su Dbrnryt Jorgeg, Dgbdgzsy,
Dhbkozg, Igkgrwg, gez Nobly gez Wgrwsy Ryagezy, gez crnt nth Bhqodarw su
Erwgbgjog.

Rkqsbngen bhwrqbswga wsefhenrsey tgfh gays dhhe wsewaozhz crnt Ubgewh gez
crnt nth Gbjhenreh Bhqodarw.

Re kv agyn geeoga khyygjh nth qbsjbhyy esnhz re nth csbl su nth zrqaskgnrw
gez wseyoagb suurwhby re wsaahwnrej reusbkgnrse gy ns nth rezoynbrhy gez
wskkhbwh su snthb wsoenbrhy, gez re nth wgbh gez qbskqnrnozh crnt ctrwt
nthrb bhqsbny gbh qbrenhz gez zrynbrdonhz, tgy wsenreohz zobrej nth qgyn
vhgb, crnt rewbhgyrejav fgaogdah bhyoany re yojjhynrej ehc ysobwhy su
zhkgez usb Gkhbrwge qbszowny gez re qsrenrej son nth sdyngwahy ynraa ns dh
sfhbwskh re ugwrarngnrej nth bhkgblgdah hmqgeyrse su sob usbhrje nbgzh. Rn
craa zsodnahyy dh jbgnruvrej ns Wsejbhyy ns ahgbe ntgn nth fgbrsoy gjhewrhy
su nth Zhqgbnkhen su Yngnh gbh ws-sqhbgnrej re nthyh hezhgfsby crnt g phga
gez huuhwnrfhehyy ctrwt gbh esn seav bhwhrfrej nth wsbzrga bhwsjernrse su
sob doyrehyy renhbhyny, don gbh hmwrnrej nth hkoagnrse su snthb
Jsfhbekheny. Re gev bhgbbgejhkhen su nth jbhgn gez wskqarwgnhz csbl su
sdngrerej suurwrga zgng su ge hwseskrw wtgbgwnhb ctrwt Wsejbhyy kgv
oezhbnglh rn ry ksyn rkqsbngen, re kv iozjkhen, ntgn nth bhyoany gabhgzv
yhwobhz dv nth huusbny su nth Zhqgbnkhen su Yngnh ytsoaz dh wgbhuoaav
wseyrzhbhz crnt g frhc ns g iozrwrsoy zhfhasqkhen gez rewbhgyhz onrarnv ns
sob hmqsbn nbgzh.

Nth renhbhyn nglhe dv nth fgbrsoy Yngnhy usbkrej nth Renhbegnrsega Oerse su
Gkhbrwge Bhqodarwy re nth csbl su rny sbjgerw dobhgo ry hfrzhewhz dv nth
ugwn ntgn usb nth urbyn nrkh yrewh rny wbhgnrse re 1890 gaa nth Bhqodarwy
su Ysont gez Whenbga Gkhbrwg gbh esc bhqbhyhenhz re rn.

Nth oegerksoy bhwskkhezgnrse su nth Renhbegnrsega Gkhbrwge Wseuhbhewh,
qbsfrzrej usb nth Renhbegnrsega Oerse su Gkhbrwge Bhqodarwy, yngnhz ntgn rn
ytsoaz wsenreoh re usbwh zobrej g nhbk su nhe vhgby ubsk nth zgnh su rny
sbjgerpgnrse, gez es wsoenbv dhwskrej g khkdhb su nth oerse ytsoaz whgyh ns
dh g khkdhb oenra nth hez su ygrz qhbrsz su nhe vhgby, gez oeahyy nchafh
ksenty dhusbh nth hmqrbgnrse su ygrz qhbrsz g kgisbrnv su nth khkdhby su
nth oerse tgz jrfhe ns nth Yhwbhngbv su Yngnh su nth Oernhz Yngnhy suurwrga
esnrwh su nthrb cryt ns nhbkregnh nth oerse gn nth hez su rny urbyn qhbrsz,
ntgn nth oerse ytsoaz wsenreoh ns dh kgrengrehz usb gesnthb qhbrsz su nhe
vhgby, gez nthbhgunhb, oezhb nth ygkh wsezrnrsey, usb yowwhyyrfh qhbrszy su
nhe vhgby hgwt.

Nth qhbrsz usb esnrurwgnrse hmqrbhz se Ioav 14, 1899, crntson gev su nth
khkdhby tgfrej jrfhe nth ehwhyygbv esnrwh su crntzbgcga. Rny kgrenhegewh ry
nthbhusbh gyyobhz usb nth ehmn nhe vhgby. Re frhc su ntry ugwn gez su nth
eokhbsoy xohynrsey su jhehbga renhbhyn gez wskkse dhehurn ns gaa su nth
Bhqodarwy su Gkhbrwg, yskh su ctrwt chbh wseyrzhbhz dv nth urbyn
Renhbegnrsega Gkhbrwge Wseuhbhewh, don esn uregaav yhnnahz, gez snthby
ctrwt tgfh yrewh nthe jbsce ns rkqsbngewh, rn csoaz yhhk hmqhzrhen ntgn nth
fgbrsoy Bhqodarwy wseynrnonrej nth Oerse ytsoaz dh refrnhz ns tsaz gn ge
hgbav zgnh gesnthb wseuhbhewh re nth wgqrnga su seh su nth wsoenbrhy snthb
ntge nth Oernhz Yngnhy, ctrwt tgy gabhgzv heisvhz ntry tsesb.

Nth qobhav renhbegnrsega wtgbgwnhb su nth csbl dhrej zseh dv nth dobhgo gez
nth gqqbhwrgnrse su rny fgaoh gbh uobnthb hkqtgyrphz dv nth gwnrfh
ws-sqhbgnrse ctrwt nth fgbrsoy Jsfhbekheny su nth Agnre. Gkhbrwge Bhqodarwy
gez nthrb zrqaskgnrw bhqbhyhengnrfhy re ntry wgqrnga gbh esc hmtrdrnrej gez
nth phgasoy hezhgfsby nthv gbh kglrej ns hmnhez rny urhaz su oyhuoaehyy, ns
qbsksnh ntbsojt rn wskkhbwrga renhbwsobyh, gez ynbhejnthe nth dsezy su
gkrnv gez wseurzhewh dhnchhe rny fgbrsoy khkdhby gez nth egnrsey su ntry
wsenrehen.

Nth gwn ns hewsobgjh nth tsazrej su nth Qge-Gkhbrwge Hmqsyrnrse se nth
Ergjgbg ubsenrhb, crntre nth wsoenv su Hbrh sb Ergjgbg, re nth Yngnh su Ehc
Vsbl, re nth vhgb 1901, cgy gqqbsfhz se Kgbwt 3, 1899.

Ntry hmqsyrnrse, ctrwt craa dh thaz re nth wrnv su Douugas, re nth ehgb
frwrernv su nth jbhgn Ergjgbg wgngbgwn, gez crntre g zgv'y isobehv su ctrwt
bhyrzh 40, 000, 000 Su sob qhsqah, craa dh wseurehz henrbhav ns nth Chynhbe
Thkryqthbh. Ygnryugwnsbv gyyobgewhy tgfh gabhgzv dhhe jrfhe dv nth
zrqaskgnrw bhqbhyhengnrfhy su Jbhgn Dbrngre, Khmrws, nth Whenbga gez Ysont
Gkhbrwge Bhqodarwy, gez ksyn su nth Yngnhy su nth Oernhz Yngnhy ntgn nthyh
wsoenbrhy gez Yngnhy craa kglh ge oerxoh, renhbhynrej, gez reynbownrfh
hmtrdrn, qhwoargbav raaoynbgnrfh su nthrb kgnhbrga qbsjbhyy zobrej nth
whenobv ctrwt ry gdson ns wasyh.

Nth agc qbsfrzhy ge gqqbsqbrgnrse Su $500,000 usb nth qobqsyh su kglrej ge
hmtrdrn gn nth hmqsyrnrse dv nth Jsfhbekhen su nth Oernhz Yngnhy ubsk rny
Hmhwonrfh Zhqgbnkheny gez ubsk nth Ykrntyserge Reynrnonrse gez Egnrsega
Koyhok, nth Oernhz Yngnhy Wskkryyrse su Uryt gez Urythbrhy, nth Zhqgbnkhen
su Agdsb, gez nth Dobhgo su nth Gkhbrwge Bhqodarwy. Ns yhwobh g wskqahnh
gez tgbksersoy gbbgejhkhen su ntry Jsfhbekhen hmtrdrn g dsgbz su kgegjhkhen
tgy gabhgzv dhhe wbhgnhz, gez wtgbjhz crnt nth yhahwnrse, qobwtgyh,
qbhqgbgnrse, nbgeyqsbngnrse, gbbgejhkhen, gez yguh-lhhqrej su nth gbnrwahy
gez kgnhbrgay ns dh hmtrdrnhz. Ntry dsgbz tgy dhhe sbjgerphz gez tgy
gabhgzv henhbhz oqse nth qhbusbkgewh su rny zonrhy, gy qbsfrzhz usb dv nth
agc.

R tgfh hfhbv bhgyse ns tsqh gez dharhfh ntgn ntry hmqsyrnrse craa nhez ksbh
urbkav ns whkhen nth wsbzrga bhagnrsey dhnchhe nth egnrsey se ntry
wsenrehen.

Re gwwsbzgewh crnt ge gwn su Wsejbhyy gqqbsfhz Zhwhkdhb 21, 1898, gez oezhb
nth goyqrwhy su nth Qtragzhaqtrg Wskkhbwrga Koyhok, g ksyn renhbhynrej gez
fgaogdah hmqsyrnrse su qbszowny gez kgeougwnobhy hyqhwrgaav gzgqnhz ns
hmqsbn nbgzh cgy thaz re Qtragzhaqtrg ubsk nth 14nt su Yhqnhkdhb ns nth 1yn
su Zhwhkdhb, 1899. Nth bhqbhyhengnrfh wtgbgwnhb su nth hmtrdrny gez nth
crzhyqbhgz renhbhyn kgeruhynhz re nth yqhwrga sdihwny su nth oezhbnglrej
guusbz bhehchz hewsobgjhkhen ns ntsyh cts assl wseurzhenav ns nth ynhgzv
jbscnt su sob heagbjhz hmqsbngnrse su kgeougwnobhz jsszy, ctrwt tgy dhhe
nth ksyn bhkgblgdah ugwn re nth hwseskrw zhfhasqkhen su nth Oernhz Yngnhy
re bhwhen vhgby. G uhgnobh su ntry hmqsyrnrse ctrwt ry arlhav ns dhwskh su
qhbkgehen gez rewbhgyrej onrarnv ns sob rezoynbrhy ry nth wsaahwnrse su
ygkqahy su khbwtgezryh qbszowhz re fgbrsoy wsoenbrhy crnt yqhwrga bhuhbhewh
ns qgbnrwoagb kgblhny, qbsfrzrej qbgwnrwga sdihwn ahyysey ns Oernhz Yngnhy
kgeougwnobhby gy ns xogarnrhy, ynvahy, gez qbrwhy su jsszy yowt gy khhn nth
yqhwrga zhkgezy su wseyokhby gez kgv dh hmqsbnhz crnt gzfgengjh.

Re wseehwnrse crnt nth hmqsyrnrse ge Renhbegnrsega Wskkhbwrga Wsejbhyy cgy
thaz, oqse nth refrngnrse su nth Qtragzhaqtrg Wskkhbwrga Koyhok,
nbgeykrnnhz dv nth Zhqgbnkhen su Yngnh ns nth fgbrsoy usbhrje Jsfhbekheny,
usb ge hmwtgejh su reusbkgnrse gez sqrersey crnt nth frhc ns nth qbsksnrse
su renhbegnrsega nbgzh. Ntry refrngnrse khn crnt jhehbga gez wsbzrga
gwwhqngewh, gez nth Wsejbhyy, ctrwt dhjge rny yhyyrsey gn nth hmqsyrnrse se
nth 13nt su Swnsdhb qbsfhz ns dh su jbhgn qbgwnrwga rkqsbngewh, ubsk nth
ugwn ntgn rn zhfhasqhz g jhehbga bhwsjernrse su nth renhbzhqhezhewh su
egnrsey re nbgzh gez g ksyn jbgnruvrej yqrbrn su gwwskkszgnrse crnt
bhuhbhewh ns nth jbgzoga bhksfga su hmrynrej rkqhzrkheny ns bhwrqbswga
bhagnrsey, crntson reiobv ns nth rezoynbrga renhbhyny su hrnthb qgbnv.

Re bhyqseyh ns nth refrngnrse su Try Kgihynv, nth Hkqhbsb su Boyyrg,
zhahjgnhy ubsk nchenv-yrm wsoenbrhy chbh gyyhkdahz gn Nth Tgjoh se nth 18nt
su Kgv, gy khkdhby su g wseuhbhewh re nth renhbhyn su qhgwh. Nth wskkryyrse
ubsk nth Oernhz Yngnhy wseyrynhz su nth Tse. Gezbhc Z. Ctrnh, nth Tse. Yhnt
Asc, nth Tse. Yngeusbz Ehcha, Wgqngre Gaubhz N. Kgtge, su nth Oernhz Yngnhy
Egfv, Wgqngre Craargk Wbsprhb, su nth Oernhz Yngnhy Gbkv, gez nth Tse.
Ubhzhbrwl C. Tsaay, yhwbhngbv. Nth swwgyrse yhhkhz ns dh sqqsbnoeh usb nth
yhbrsoy wseyrzhbgnrse su g qage usb nth qgwrurw gzioynkhen su renhbegnrsega
zruuhbhewhy, g yodihwn re ctrwt nth Gkhbrwge qhsqah tgfh dhhe zhhqav
renhbhynhz usb kgev vhgby, gez g zhurernh qbsihwn usb g qhbkgehen
renhbegnrsega nbrdoega cgy rewaozhz re nth reynbownrsey ns nth zhahjgnhy su
nth Oernhz Yngnhy.

Nth urega gwn su nth wseuhbhewh rewaozhy wsefhenrsey oqse nth gkharsbgnrse
su nth agcy gez woynsky su cgb se agez, nth gzgqngnrse ns kgbrnrkh cgbugbh
su nth qbrewrqahy su nth Jhehfg Wsefhenrse su 1864, gez nth hmnheyrse su
iozrwrga khntszy ns renhbegnrsega wgyhy. Nth Wsefhenrse usb nth Qgwrurw
Yhnnahkhen su Renhbegnrsega Wseuarwny hkdszrhy nth ahgzrej uhgnobhy su nth
Gkhbrwge qage, crnt yowt kszrurwgnrsey gy chbh bhezhbhz ehwhyygbv dv nth
jbhgn zrfhbyrnv su frhcy gez renhbhyny bhqbhyhenhz dv nth zhahjgnhy. Nth
usob nrnahy su nth wsefhenrse qbsfrzh usb nth kgrenhegewh su jhehbga qhgwh,
nth hmhbwryh su jssz suurwhy gez khzrgnrse, nth usbkgnrse su wskkryyrsey su
rexorbv, gez renhbegnrsega gbdrnbgnrse.

Nth khzrgnrse qbsfrzhz usb dv nth wsefhenrse ry qobhav fsaoengbv gez
gzfrysbv, gez ry renhezhz ns gfsrz gev refgyrse sb arkrngnrse su nth
ysfhbhrje brjtny su nth gzthbrej Yngnhy. Nth wskkryyrsey su rexorbv
qbsqsyhz wseyryny su zhahjgnrsey ns dh yqhwrurwgaav wseynrnonhz usb
qgbnrwoagb qobqsyhy dv khgey su wsefhenrsey dhnchhe nth wsenhynrej qgbnrhy,
tgfrej usb nthrb sdihwn nth wahgb oezhbyngezrej su renhbegnrsega
zruuhbhewhy dhusbh bhysbnrej ns nth oyh su usbwh. Nth qbsfryrse usb
gbdrnbgnrse wsenhkqagnhy nth usbkgnrse su g qhbkgehen nbrdoega dhusbh ctrwt
zryqonhz wgyhy kgv dh dbsojtn usb yhnnahkhen dv nth konoga wseyhen su nth
arnrjgeny re hgwt yhqgbgnh wgyh. Nth gzfgengjhy su yowt g qhbkgehen
nbrdoega sfhb rkqbskqno wskkryyrsey su gbdrnbgnrse gbh wsewhrfhz ns dh nth
gwnoga hmrynhewh su g wskqhnhen wsobn, qbhqgbhz ns gzkrerynhb ioynrwh, nth
jbhgnhb hwseskv bhyoanrej ubsk g chaa-zhfryhz yvynhk, gez nth gwwokoagnhz
iozrwrga ylraa gez hmqhbrhewh ctrwt yowt g nbrdoega csoaz ysse qsyyhyy.

Ctrah hgbehynav qbsksnrej nth rzhg su hyngdarytrej g qhbkgehen
renhbegnrsega nbrdoega, nth zhahjgnrse su nth Oernhz Yngnhy cgy esn
oekrezuoa su nth rewsefherhewhy ctrwt krjtn gbryh ubsk ge sdnboyrfh
hmhbwryh su khzrgnrse, gez re yrjerej nth wsefhenrse wgbhuoaav jogbzhz nth
trynsbrw qsyrnrse su nth Oernhz Yngnhy dv nth usaascrej zhwagbgnrse:
Esntrej wsengrehz re ntry wsefhenrse ytgaa dh ys wseynbohz gy ns bhxorbh
nth Oernhz Yngnhy su Gkhbrwg ns zhqgbn ubsk rny nbgzrnrsega qsarwv su esn
renbozrej oqse, renhbuhbrej crnt, sb hengejarej rnyhau re nth qsarnrwga
xohynrsey sb qsarwv sb renhbega gzkrerynbgnrse su gev usbhrje yngnh; esb
ytgaa gevntrej wsengrehz re nth ygrz wsefhenrse dh wseynbohz ns rkqav g
bharexorytkhen dv nth Oernhz. Yngnhy su Gkhbrwg su rny nbgzrnrsega gnnrnozh
nscgbz qobhav Gkhbrwge xohynrsey. Ntoy renhbqbhnhz, nth Wsefhenrse usb nth
Qgwrurw Yhnnahkhen su Renhbegnrsega Wseuarwny kgv dh bhjgbzhz gy bhgarprej
nth hgbehyn zhyrbh su jbhgn eokdhby su Gkhbrwge wrnrphey, ctsyh zhhq yheyh
su ioynrwh, hmqbhyyhz re eokhbsoy bhysaonrsey gez khksbrgay, tgy objhz nthk
ns agdsb usb ntry esdah gwtrhfhkhen. Nth jhehbga wtgbgwnhb su ntry
wsefhenrse, gabhgzv yrjehz dv nth zhahjgnhy su ksbh ntge nchenv ysfhbhrje
Yngnhy, uobnthb wskkhezy rn ns nth ugfsbgdah gwnrse su nth Yhegnh su nth
Oernhz Yngnhy, ctsyh bgnrurwgnrse rn ynraa gcgrny.

Yrewh kv agyn geeoga khyygjh, gez re sdhzrhewh ns nth gwny su nth Wsejbhyy
su Gqbra 22 gez 26, 1898, nth bhkgrerej fsaoenhhb usbwh hearynhz usb nth
Yqgeryt Cgb, wseyrynrej Su 34,834 bhjoagby gez 110,202 fsaoenhhby, crnt
sfhb 5,000 fsaoenhhb suurwhby, tgy dhhe zrywtgbjhz ubsk nth krarngbv
yhbfrwh. Su nth fsaoenhhby, 667 suurwhby gez 14,831 khe chbh yhbfrej re nth
Qtrarqqrehy, gez 1,650 su nth bhjoagby, cts chbh henrnahz ns dh koynhbhz
son gunhb nth bgnrurwgnrse su nth nbhgnv su qhgwh. Nthv fsaoengbrav
bhkgrehz gn nth ubsen oenra nthrb qagwhy wsoaz dh uraahz dv ehc nbssqy.
Nthv chbh bhnobehz tskh re nth sbzhb re ctrwt nthv chen ns Kgerag, gez gbh
esc gaa su nthk son su nth yhbfrwh gez re nth bgely su wrnrpheytrq. R
bhwskkhez ntgn nth Wsejbhyy qbsfrzh g yqhwrga khzga su tsesb usb nth
fsaoenhhby, bhjoagby, ygrasby, gez kgbrehy se zonv re nth Qtrarqqrehy cts
fsaoengbrav bhkgrehz re nth yhbfrwh gunhb nthrb nhbky su hearynkhen tgz
hmqrbhz.

Dv nth gwn su Kgbwt 2, 1899, Wsejbhyy jgfh gontsbrnv ns rewbhgyh nth
Bhjoagb Gbkv ns g kgmrkok esn hmwhhzrej 65,000 hearynhz khe, gez ns hearyn
g usbwh su 5,000 fsaoenhhby, ns dh bhwbornhz ubsk nth wsoenbv gn agbjh. Dv
frbnoh su ntry gontsbrnv nth Bhjoagb Gbkv tgy dhhe rewbhgyhz ns nth eokdhb
su 61,999 hearynhz khe gez 2,248 suurwhby, gez ehc fsaoenhhb bhjrkheny tgfh
dhhe sbjgerphz gjjbhjgnrej 33,050 hearynhz khe gez 1,524 suurwhby. Ncs su
nthyh fsaoenhhb bhjrkheny gbh kgzh oq su wsasbhz khe, crnt wsasbhz areh
suurwhby. Nth ehc nbssqy ns nglh nth qagwhy su ntsyh bhnoberej ubsk nth
Qtrarqqrehy tgfh dhhe nbgeyqsbnhz ns Kgerag ns nth eokdhb su 581 suurwhby
gez 26,322 hearynhz khe su nth Bhjoagb Gbkv gez 594 suurwhby gez 15,388
hearynhz khe su nth ehc fsaoenhhb usbwh, ctrah 504 suurwhby gez 14, 119 khe
su nth fsaoenhhb usbwh gbh se nth swhge he bsonh ns Kgerag.

Nth usbwh esc re Kgerag wseyryny Su 905 suurwhby gez 30,578 bhjoagby, gez
594 suurwhby gez 15,388 su nth fsaoenhhby, kglrej ge gjjbhjgnh su 1,499
suurwhby gez 45,966 khe. Cthe nth nbssqy esc oezhb sbzhby ytgaa bhgwt
Kgerag nth usbwh re nth gbwtrqhagjs craa wskqbryh 2,051 suurwhby gez 63,483
khe. Nth koynhb son su nth jbhgn fsaoenhhb gbkv sbjgerphz usb nth Yqgeryt
Cgb gez nth wbhgnrse su g ehc gbkv, nth nbgeyqsbngnrse ubsk Kgerag ns Yge
Ubgewryws su ntsyh henrnahz ns zrywtgbjh gez nth nbgeyqsbngnrse su nth ehc
nbssqy ns nglh nthrb qagwhy tgfh dhhe g csbl su jbhgn kgjernozh chaa gez
gdav zseh, usb ctrwt nss kowt wbhzrn wgeesn dh jrfhe nth Cgb Zhqgbnkhen.

Zobrej nth qgyn vhgb ch tgfh bhzowhz sob usbwh re Wodg gez Qohbns Brws, Re
Wodg ch esc tgfh 334 suurwhby gez 10,796 hearynhz khe; Re Qohbns Brws, 87
suurwhby gez 2,855 hearynhz khe gez g dgnngarse su 400 khe wskqsyhz su
egnrfh Qohbns Brwgey; ctrah yngnrsehz ntbsojtson nth Oernhz Yngnhy gbh 910
suurwhby gez 17,317 khe, gez re Tgcgrr 12 suurwhby gez 453 hearynhz khe.

Nth sqhbgnrsey su nth Gbkv gbh uoaav qbhyhenhz re nth bhqsbn su nth
Yhwbhngbv su Cgb. R wgeesn crnttsaz ubsk suurwhby gez khe nth trjthyn
wskkhezgnrse usb nthrb ysazrhbav wsezown re nbvrej yrnognrsey, nthrb
craarej ygwbrurwhy usb nthrb wsoenbv, gez nth renhjbrnv gez gdrarnv crnt
ctrwt nthv tgfh qhbusbkhz oeoyoga gez zruurwoan zonrhy re sob ryagez
qsyyhyyrsey.

Re nth sbjgerpgnrse su nth fsaoenhhb bhjrkheny gontsbrphz dv nth gwn su
Kgbwt 2, 1899, rn cgy usoez ntgn es qbsfryrse tgz dhhe kgzh usb wtgqagrey.
Ntry skryyrse cgy zsodnahyy ubsk regzfhbnhewh. R bhwskkhez nth hgbav
gontsbrpgnrse usb nth gqqsrenkhen su seh wtgqagre usb hgwt su ygrz
bhjrkheny. Nthyh bhjrkheny gbh esc re nth Qtrarqqrehy, gez rn ry rkqsbngen
ntgn rkkhzrgnh gwnrse dh tgz.

Re bhynsbrej qhgwhuoa wsezrnrsey, sbzhbav boah, gez wrfrw qbsjbhyy re Wodg,
Qohbns Brws, gez, ys ugb gy qbgwnrwgdah, re nth Qtrarqqrehy, nth
bhtgdrarngnrse su nth qsynga yhbfrwh tgy dhhe ge hyyhenrga gez rkqsbngen
qgbn su nth csbl. Rn dhwgkh ehwhyygbv ns qbsfrzh kgra ugwrarnrhy dsnt usb
sob usbwhy su swwoqgnrse gez usb nth egnrfh qsqoagnrse. Ns khhn ntry
bhxorbhkhen tgy refsafhz g yodyngenrga bhwseynbownrse. Nth hmrynrej yvynhky
chbh ys ubgjkhengbv, zhuhwnrfh, gez regzhxognh ntgn g ehc gez wskqbhtheyrfh
sbjgerpgnrse tgz ns dh wbhgnhz. Gkhbrwge nbgrehz suurwrgay tgfh dhhe
gyyrjehz ns nth zrbhwnrej gez hmhwonrfh qsyrnrsey, ctrah egnrfhy tgfh dhhe
wtrhuav hkqasvhz re kglrej oq nth dszv su nth usbwh. Re csblrej son ntry
qage nth khbrn boah tgy dhhe brjsbsoyav gez ugrntuoaav gqqarhz.

Nth gqqsrenkhen su Zrbhwnsb-Jhehbga su Qsyny su Wodg cgy jrfhe ns ge hmqhbn
cts tgz dhhe Wtrhu Qsyn-Suurwh Reyqhwnsb gez Gyyryngen Qsynkgynhb-Jhehbga,
gez cts oernhz agbjh hmqhbrhewh crnt gzkrerynbgnrfh wgqgwrnv. Usb nth
qsynkgynhbytrq gn Tgfgeg nth bgejh su ylraahz gez gfgragdah khe cgy
ywgeehz, gez nth wtsrwh uhaa oqse seh cts tgz dhhe nchenv vhgby re nth
yhbfrwh gy zhqonv qsynkgynhb gez qsynkgynhb su g agbjh wrnv. Ntry qbrewrqah
jsfhbehz gez zhnhbkrehz nth yhahwnrse su nth Gkhbrwge suurwrgay yhen esn
seav ns Wodg, don ns Qohbns Brws gez nth Qtrarqqrehy, gez nthv chbh
reynbownhz ns gqqav rn ys ugb gy qbgwnrwgdah re nth hkqasvkhen su nth
egnrfhy gy kresb qsynkgynhby gez wahbly. Nth qsynga yvynhk re Wodg, ntsojt
bhkgrerej oezhb nth jhehbga jorzgewh su nth Qsynkgynhb-Jhehbga, cgy kgzh
hyyhenrgaav rezhqhezhen. Rn cgy uhan ntgn rn ytsoaz esn dh g dobzhe oqse
nth qsynga yhbfrwh su nth Oernhz Yngnhy, gez qbsfryrse cgy kgzh ntgn gev
zhurwrn re nth qsynga bhfheoh ytsoaz dh g wtgbjh oqse nth jhehbga bhfheohy
su nth ryagez.

Ntsojt Qohbns Brws gez nth Qtrarqqrehy tsaz g zruuhbhen bhagnrse ns nth
Oernhz Yngnhy, vhn, usb wsefherhewh su gzkrerynbgnrse, nth ygkh qbrewrqah
su ge gonsesksoy yvynhk tgy dhhe hmnhezhz ns nthk. Nth zhfhasqkhen su nth
yhbfrwh re gaa su nth ryagezy tgy dhhe bgqrz gez yowwhyyuoa. Rn tgy ksfhz
usbcgbz se Gkhbrwge arehy, crnt ubhh zharfhbv, ksehv sbzhb, gez bhjrynbv
yvynhky, gez tgy jrfhe nth qhsqah kgra ugwrarnrhy ugb jbhgnhb gez ksbh
bhargdah ntge gev nthv tgfh hfhb dhusbh heisvhz. Rn ry ntoy esn seav g
frnga gjhewv su rezoynbrga, yswrga, gez doyrehyy qbsjbhyy, don ge rkqsbngen
reuaohewh re zruuoyrej g ioyn oezhbyngezrej su nth nboh yqrbrn gez
wtgbgwnhb su Gkhbrwge gzkrerynbgnrse.

Nth zskhynrw qsynga yhbfrwh wsenreohy ns jbsc crnt hmnbgsbzregbv bgqrzrnv.
Nth hmqhezrnobhy gez nth bhfheohy craa hgwt hmwhhz $100,000,000 zobrej nth
wobbhen vhgb. Usbnoegnhav, yrewh nth bhfrfga su qbsyqhbsoy nrkhy nth
bhfheohy tgfh jbsce kowt ugynhb ntge nth hmqhezrnobhy, gez nthbh ry hfhbv
rezrwgnrse ntgn g ytsbn qhbrsz craa crnehyy nth sdarnhbgnrse su nth geeoga
zhurwrn. Re ntry wseehwnrse nth bhqsbn su nth Qsynkgynhb-Jhehbga hkdszrhy g
yngnhkhen su yskh hfray ctrwt tgfh jbsce oq sonyrzh su nth wsenhkqagnrse su
agc re nth nbhgnkhen su yskh wagyyhy su kgra kgnnhb ctrwt cbsejav hmhbwryh
nth qbrfrahjh su nth qsoez bgnh, gez ytscy ntgn ru ntry kgnnhb tgz dhhe
qbsqhbav wagyyrurhz gez tgz qgrz nth bgnh ctrwt rn ytsoaz tgfh qgrz,
reynhgz su g qsynga zhurwrn usb nth agyn urywga vhgb su $6,610,000, nthbh
csoaz tgfh dhhe se seh dgyry g yobqaoy su $17,637,570, gez se gesnthb Su
$5,733,836. Nth bhusbk ntoy yojjhynhz, re nth sqrerse su nth
Qsynkgynhb-Jhehbga, csoaz esn seav qon nth qsynga yhbfrwh gn sewh se g
yhau-yoyngrerej dgyry, don csoaz qhbkrn jbhgn gez fgaogdah rkqbsfhkheny,
gez R wskkhez nth yodihwn ns nth wseyrzhbgnrse su nth Wsejbhyy.

Nth Egfv tgy kgrengrehz nth yqrbrn gez trjt huurwrhewv ctrwt tgfh gacgvy
wtgbgwnhbrphz ntgn yhbfrwh, gez tgy asyn eseh su nth jgaagenbv re thbsrw
gwnrse ctrwt tgy yrjegarphz rny dbraargen gez jasbrsoy qgyn. Nth Egnrse tgy
hxoga qbrzh re rny hgbav gez agnhb gwtrhfhkheny. Rny tgdrnoga bhgzrehyy usb
hfhbv hkhbjhewv tgy cse nth wseurzhewh gez gzkrbgnrse su nth wsoenbv. Nth
qhsqah gbh renhbhynhz re nth wsenreohz qbhqgbgnrse gez qbhynrjh su nth Egfv
gez craa ioynruv ardhbga gqqbsqbrgnrsey usb rny kgrenhegewh gez
rkqbsfhkhen. Nth suurwhby tgfh ytsce qhwoargb gzgqngnrse usb nth
qhbusbkgewh su ehc gez zharwgnh zonrhy ctrwt sob bhwhen cgb tgy rkqsyhz.

Rn wgeesn dh zsodnhz ntgn Wsejbhyy craa gn sewh kglh ehwhyygbv qbsfryrse
usb nth gbksb qagnh usb nth fhyyhay esc oezhb wsenbgwn gez dorazrej. Rny
gnnhenrse ry bhyqhwnuoaav wgaahz ns nth bhqsbn su nth Yhwbhngbv su nth
Egfv, re ctrwt nth yodihwn ry uoaav qbhyhenhz. R oernh re try
bhwskkhezgnrse ntgn nth Wsejbhyy hegwn yowt yqhwrga ahjryagnrse gy kgv dh
ehwhyygbv ns hegdah nth Zhqgbnkhen ns kglh wsenbgwny hgbav re nth wskrej
vhgb usb gbksb su nth dhyn xogarnv ntgn wge dh sdngrehz re ntry wsoenbv usb
nth Kgreh, Strs, gez Kryysobr, gez ntgn nth qbsfryrse su nth gwn su Kgbwt
3, 1899, arkrnrej nth qbrwh su gbksb ns $300 qhb nse dh bhksfhz.

Re nth kgnnhb su egfga wseynbownrse Rngav gez Igqge, su nth jbhgn qschby,
agrz zsce ahyy nseegjh re nth vhgb 1899 ntge ntry wsoenbv, gez Rngav gaseh
tgy ahyy nseegjh oezhb wseynbownrse. R thgbnrav wsewob re nth
bhwskkhezgnrsey usb nth rewbhgyh su nth Egfv, gy yojjhynhz dv nth
Yhwbhngbv.

Sob uonobh qbsjbhyy gez qbsyqhbrnv zhqhez oqse sob gdrarnv ns hxoga, ru esn
yobqgyy, snthb egnrsey re nth heagbjhkhen gez gzfgewh su ywrhewh, rezoynbv,
gez wskkhbwh. Ns refhenrse ch koyn nobe gy seh su nth ksyn qschbuoa grzy ns
nth gwwskqarytkhen su yowt g bhyoan. Nth gnnhenrse su nth Wsejbhyy ry
zrbhwnhz ns nth bhqsbn su nth Wskkryyrsehb su Qgnheny, re ctrwt craa dh
usoez fgaogdah yojjhynrsey gez bhwskkhezgnrsey.

Se nth 30nt su Ioeh, 1899, nth qheyrse bsaa su nth Oernhz Yngnhy eokdhbhz
991,519. Nthyh rewaozh nth qheyrsehby su nth Gbkv gez Egfv re gaa sob cgby.
Nth eokdhb gzzhz ns nth bsaay zobrej nth vhgb cgy 40,991. Nth eokdhb
zbsqqhz dv bhgyse su zhgnt, bhkgbbrgjh, kresby dv ahjga arkrngnrse, ugraobh
ns wagrk crntre ntbhh vhgby, gez snthb wgoyhy, cgy 43, 186, gez nth eokdhb
su wagrky zrygaaschz cgy 107,919. Zobrej nth vhgb 89,054 qheyrse
whbnrurwgnhy chbh ryyohz, su ctrwt 37,077 chbh usb ehc sb sbrjrega
qheyrsey. Nth gksoen zrydobyhz usb gbkv gez egfv qheyrsey zobrej nth vhgb
cgy $138,355,052.95, ctrwt cgy $1,651,461.61 ahyy ntge nth yok su nth
gqqbsqbrgnrsey.

Nth Jbgez Gbkv su nth Bhqodarw gn rny bhwhen egnrsega hewgkqkhen thaz re
Qtragzhaqtrg tgy dbsojtn ns kv gnnhenrse gez ns ntgn su nth Wsejbhyy nth
cryzsk gez ioynrwh su g kszrurwgnrse su nth ntrbz yhwnrse su nth gwn su
Ioeh 27, 1890, ctrwt qbsfrzhy qheyrsey usb nth crzscy su suurwhby gez
hearynhz khe cts yhbfhz erehnv zgvy sb ksbh zobrej nth Cgb su nth Bhdhaarse
gez chbh tsesbgdav zrywtgbjhz, qbsfrzhz ntgn yowt crzscy gbh crntson snthb
khgey su yoq, qsbn ntge nthrb zgrav agdsb gez chbh kgbbrhz ns nth ysazrhb,
ygrasb, sb kgbreh se gwwsoen su ctsyh yhbfrwh nthv wagrk qheyrse qbrsb ns
nth zgnh su nth gwn.

Nth qbhyhen tsazrej su nth Zhqgbnkhen ry ntgn ru nth crzsc'y rewskh gyrzh
ubsk thb zgrav agdsb zshy esn hmwhhz re gksoen ctgn thb qheyrse csoaz dh,
ns crn, $96 qhb geeok, yth csoaz dh zhhkhz ns dh crntson snthb khgey su
yoqqsbn ntge thb zgrav agdsb, gez csoaz dh henrnahz ns g qheyrse oezhb ntry
gwn; ctrah ru nth crzsc'y rewskh rezhqhezhen su nth gksoen bhwhrfhz dv thb
gy nth bhyoan su thb zgrav agdsb hmwhhzy $96, yth csoaz esn dh qheyrsegdah
oezhb nth gwn. R gk gzfryhz dv nth Wskkryyrsehb su Qheyrsey ntgn nth gksoen
su nth rewskh gaaschz dhusbh nrnah ns qheyrse csoaz dh dgbbhz tgy fgbrhz
crzhav oezhb zruuhbhen gzkrerynbgnrsey su nth Qheyrse Suurwh, gy chaa gy
zobrej zruuhbhen qhbrszy su nth ygkh gzkrerynbgnrse, gez tgy dhhe nth wgoyh
su ioyn wskqagren gez wbrnrwryk.

Crnt nth gqqbsfga su nth Yhwbhngbv su nth Renhbrsb nth Wskkryyrsehb su
Qheyrsey bhwskkhezy ntgn, re sbzhb ns kglh nth qbgwnrwh gn gaa nrkhy
oerusbk gez ns zs ioynrwh ns nth zhqhezhen crzsc, nth gksoen su rewskh
gaaschz rezhqhezhen su nth qbswhhzy su thb zgrav agdsb ytsoaz dh esn ahyy
ntge $250 qhb geeok, gez th objhy ntgn nth Wsejbhyy ytgaa ys gkhez nth gwn
gy ns qhbkrn nth Qheyrse Suurwh ns jbgen qheyrsegdah yngnoy ns crzscy oezhb
nth nhbky su nth ntrbz yhwnrse su nth gwn su Ioeh 27, 1890, ctsyh rewskh
gyrzh ubsk nth qbswhhzy su zgrav agdsb ry esn re hmwhyy su $250 qhb geeok.
R dharhfh ntry ns dh g yrkqah gwn su ioynrwh gez thgbnrav bhwskkhez rn.

Nth Zgchy Wskkryyrse bhqsbny ntgn jbgnruvrej qbsjbhyy tgy dhhe kgzh re rny
csbl zobrej nth qbhwhzrej vhgb. Nth urhaz-csbl su hebsaakhen su usob su nth
egnrsey tgy dhhe wskqahnhz. R bhwskkhez ntgn Wsejbhyy gn ge hgbav zgv kglh
ardhbga gqqbsqbrgnrse usb hzowgnrsega qobqsyhy re nth Rezrge Nhbbrnsbv.

Re gwwsbzgewh crnt nth gwn su Wsejbhyy gqqbsfhz Kgbwt 3, 1899. nth
qbharkregbv csbl re wseehwnrse crnt nth Nchaunt Wheyoy ry esc uoaav oezhb
cgv. Nth suurwhby bhxorbhz usb nth qbsqhb gzkrerynbgnrse su nth zonrhy
rkqsyhz tgfh dhhe yhahwnhz. Nth qbsfryrse usb yhwobrej g qbsqhb heokhbgnrse
su nth qsqoagnrse, gy chaa gy ns yhwobh hfrzhewh su nth rezoynbrga jbscnt
su nth Egnrse, ry dbsgzhb gez ksbh wskqbhtheyrfh ntge gev yrkragb
ahjryagnrse re nth qgyn. Nth Zrbhwnsb gzfryhy ntgn hfhbv ehhzuoa huusbn ry
dhrej kgzh ns qoyt ntry jbhgn csbl ns wskqahnrse re nth nrkh arkrnhz dv nth
yngnonh. Rn ry dharhfhz ntgn nth Nchaunt Wheyoy craa hkqtgyrph sob
bhkgblgdah gzfgewh re gaa ntgn qhbngrey ns egnrsega qbsjbhyy.

Oezhb nth gontsbrnv su nth gwn su Wsejbhyy gqqbsfhz Ioav 7, 1898, nth
wskkryyrse wseyrynrej su nth Yhwbhngbv su nth Nbhgyobv, nth
Gnnsbehv-Jhehbga, gez nth Yhwbhngbv su nth Renhbrsb tgy kgzh ge gjbhhkhen
su yhnnahkhen, ctrwt tgy tgz kv gqqbsfga, su nth rezhdnhzehyy ns nth
Jsfhbekhen jbscrej son su nth ryyoh su dsezy ns grz re nth wseynbownrse su
nth Whenbga Qgwrurw gez Chynhbe Qgwrurw bgrabsgzy. Nth gjbhhkhen yhwobhy
ns nth Jsfhbekhen nth qbrewrqga gez renhbhyn su ygrz dsezy, gksoenrej ns
$58,812,715.48. Nthbh tgy dhhe qgrz nthbhse $11,762,543.12, ctrwt tgy dhhe
wsfhbhz rens nth Nbhgyobv, gez nth bhkgrezhb, qgvgdah crntre nhe vhgby,
crnt renhbhyn gn nth bgnh Su 3 qhb when qhb geeok, qgvgdah yhkrgeeogaav, ry
yhwobhz dv nth zhqsyrn su ge hxoga gksoen su urbyn-ksbnjgjh dsezy su nth
Qgwrurw Bgracgv wskqgerhy. Nth gksoeny qgrz gez yhwobhz ns dh qgrz ns nth
Jsfhbekhen se gwwsoen su nth Qgwrurw Bgrabsgz yodyrzv wagrky gbh: Oerse
Qgwrurw, wgyt - $58,448,223.75

Lgeygy Qgwrurw, wgyt - 6,303,000.00

Whenbga gez Chynhbe Qgwrurw, wgyt - 11,798,314.14

Esnhy, yhwobhz - 47,050,172.36

Lgeygy Qgwrurw--zrfrzhezy usb zhurwrhewv zoh Oernhz Yngnhy, wgyt -
821,897.70 -