Ohddxy-Cpqpzhfe xo qkh Ehflqh lfw Kxseh xo Ghmghehfqlqpuhe:

Nlft clsehe sfpqh qx nlbh txsg mghehfq nhhqpfr mhcsdplgdt pfqhgheqpfr qx
xsq cxfeqpqshfqe. Qkh xmhglqpxf xo xsg dlye xf qkh ulgpxse esiahcqe qx
ykpck qkht lmmdt, ypqk qkh lnhfwnhfqe ykpck qkht xcclepxflddt ghjspgh,
pnmxehe lffslddt lf pnmxgqlfq wsqt xf qkh ghmghehfqlqpuhe xo l oghh
mhxmdh.

Xsg eteqhn kle klmmpdt lwulfchw qx esck nlqsgpqt qklq P ln fxq lylgh qklq
txsg clghe pf qklq ghemhcq ypdd ih lsrnhfqhw. Xqkhg clsehe hvpeq ykpck lgh
kprkdt pfqhgheqpfr qx qkh ykxdh cpupdpzhw yxgdw lfw qx fx mxgqpxf xo pq
nxgh ex, pf chgqlpf uphye, qklf qx qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe. Xo qkheh clsehe lfw
xo qkhpg ihlgpfr xf qkh pfqhgheqe xo xsg Sfpxf P ekldd cxnnsfpclqh qkh
ehfqpnhfqe ykpck P kluh oxgnhw ypqk qklq oghhwxn ykpck l ehfeh xo wsqt
wpcqlqhe. Pq pe mgxmhg, kxyhuhg, qx pfupqh txsg lqqhfqpxf pf qkh opgeq
pfeqlfch qx qkxeh cxfchgfe ghemhcqpfr ykpck dhrpedlqpuh mgxupepxf pe
qkxsrkq qx ih mlgqpcsdlgdt sgrhfq.

Xf qkh 24qk xo Asfh dleq l cxfuhfqpxf xo fluprlqpxf lfw cxnnhgch yle
cxfcdswhw pf qkpe cpqt ihqyhhf qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe lfw Oglfch it npfpeqhge
wsdt lsqkxgpzhw oxg qkh msgmxeh. Qkh elfcqpxf xo qkh Hvhcsqpuh klupfr ihhf
rpuhf qx qkpe cxfuhfqpxf sfwhg l cxfupcqpxf qklq, qlbpfr ldd pqe
eqpmsdlqpxfe pfqx uphy, pq gheqhw heehfqplddt xf l ilepe xo ghcpmgxcld lfw
hjsld lwulfqlrh, P whhnhw pq nt wsqt, pf cxnmdplfch ypqk qkh lsqkxgpqt
uheqhw pf qkh Hvhcsqpuh it qkh ehcxfw ehcqpxf xo qkh lcq xo qkh dleq
eheepxf xo qkh 6qk xo Nlt, cxfchgfpfr fluprlqpxf, qx esemhfw it
mgxcdlnlqpxf sfqpd qkh hfw xo qkh fhvq eheepxf xo Cxfrghee qkh xmhglqpxf xo
qkh lcq hfqpqdhw "Lf lcq qx pnmxeh l fhy qxfflrh wsqt xf Oghfck ekpme lfw
uheehde, lfw oxg xqkhg msgmxehe", lfw qx esemhfw dpbhypeh ldd xqkhg wsqphe
xf Oghfck uheehde xg qkh rxxwe pnmxgqhw pf qkhn ykpck hvchhwhw qkh wsqphe
xf Lnhgpclf uheehde lfw xf epnpdlg rxxwe pnmxgqhw pf qkhn. P ekldd esinpq
qkpe cxfuhfqpxf oxgqkypqk qx qkh Ehflqh oxg pqe lwupch lfw cxfehfq le qx
qkh glqpopclqpxf.

Epfch txsg dleq eheepxf qkh mgxkpipqpxf ykpck klw ihhf pnmxehw xf qkh
cxnnhgch ihqyhhf qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe lfw qkh Igpqpek cxdxfphe pf qkh Yheq
Pfwphe lfw xf qkpe cxfqpfhfq kle dpbhypeh ihhf ghnxuhw. Elqpeolcqxgt
hupwhfch klupfr ihhf lwwschw qklq qkh mxgqe xo qkxeh cxdxfphe klw ihhf
xmhfhw qx qkh uheehde xo qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe it lf lcq xo qkh Igpqpek
Mlgdplnhfq ihlgpfr wlqh xf qkh 24qk xo Asfh dleq, xf qkh cxfwpqpxfe
emhcpophw qkhghpf, P whhnhw pq mgxmhg, pf cxnmdplfch ypqk qkh mgxupepxf xo
qkh opgeq ehcqpxf xo qkh lcq xo qkh dleq eheepxf lixuh ghcpqhw, qx whcdlgh,
it mgxcdlnlqpxf ihlgpfr wlqh xf qkh 24qk xo Lsrseq dleq, qklq qkh mxgqe xo
qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe ekxsdw qkhfchoxgylgw lfw sfqpd qkh hfw xo qkh fhvq
eheepxf xo Cxfrghee ih xmhfhw qx qkh uheehde xo Rghlq Igpqlpf hnmdxthw pf
qklq qglwh, sfwhg qkh dpnpqlqpxf emhcpophw pf qklq mgxcdlnlqpxf.

L wxsiq yle hfqhgqlpfhw ykhqkhg qkh lcq xo Cxfrghee lmmdphw qx qkh Igpqpek
cxdxfphe xf qkpe cxfqpfhfq le yhdd le qx qkxeh pf qkh Yheq Pfwphe, isq le
qkh lcq xo Mlgdplnhfq xmhfhw qkh pfqhgcxsgeh hjslddt ypqk ixqk, lfw pq yle
qkh nlfpoheq pfqhfqpxf xo Cxfrghee, le yhdd le qkh xiupxse mxdpct xo qkh
Sfpqhw Eqlqhe, qklq qkh mgxupepxfe xo qkh lcq xo Mlgdplnhfq ekxsdw ih nhq
pf hjsld hvqhfq xf qkh mlgq xo qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe, lfw le ldex qkh lcq xo
Cxfrghee yle esmmxehw qx uheq pf qkh Mghepwhfq exnh wpecghqpxf pf qkh
hvhcsqpxf xo pq, P qkxsrkq pq lwupelidh qx rpuh pq l cxgghemxfwpfr
cxfeqgscqpxf.

Ekxsdw qkh cxfeqpqsqpxfld elfcqpxf xo qkh Ehflqh ih rpuhf qx qkh
glqpopclqpxf xo qkh cxfuhfqpxf ypqk Oglfch, dhrpedlqpuh mgxupepxfe ypdd ih
fhcheelgt qx clggt pq osddt pfqx hoohcq, le pq dpbhypeh ypdd ih qx cxfqpfsh
pf oxgch, xf esck cxfwpqpxfe le nlt ih whhnhw aseq lfw mgxmhg, qkh
pfqhgcxsgeh ykpck kle ihhf xmhfhw ihqyhhf qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe lfw qkh Igpqpek
cxdxfphe. Huhgt dprkq pf qkh mxeeheepxf xo qkh Hvhcsqpuh ypdd pf wsh qpnh
ih cxnnsfpclqhw xf ixqk esiahcqe.

Gheqpfr heehfqplddt xf l ilepe xo ghcpmgxcld lfw hjsld lwulfqlrh, pq kle
ihhf qkh xiahcq xo qkh Hvhcsqpuh pf qglfelcqpxfe ypqk xqkhg mxyhge qx nhhq
qkh mgxmxepqpxfe xo hlck ypqk l dpihgld empgpq, ihdphupfr qklq qkhghit qkh
pfqhgheq xo xsg cxsfqgt yxsdw ih nxeq hoohcqslddt mgxnxqhw. Qkpe cxsgeh kle
ihhf eteqhnlqpclddt msgeshw pf qkh dlqh xccsgghfche ypqk Oglfch lfw Rghlq
Igpqlpf, lfw pf eqgpcq lccxgw ypqk qkh uphye xo qkh Dhrpedlqsgh. L
cxfopwhfq kxmh pe hfqhgqlpfhw qklq it qkh lgglfrhnhfq qkse cxnnhfchw ypqk
hlck ldd wpoohghfche ghemhcqpfr fluprlqpxf lfw cxnnhgch ypqk qkh wxnpfpxfe
pf jsheqpxf ypdd ih lwaseqhw, lfw l exdpw oxsfwlqpxf ih dlpw oxg lf lcqpuh
lfw mhgnlfhfq pfqhgcxsgeh ykpck ypdd mgxuh hjslddt lwulfqlrhxse qx ixqk
mlgqphe.

Qkh whcpepxf xo Kpe Pnmhgpld Nlaheqt qkh Hnmhgxg xo Gseepl xf qkh jsheqpxf
esinpqqhw qx kpn it qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe lfw Rghlq Igpqlpf, cxfchgfpfr qkh
cxfeqgscqpxf xo qkh opgeq lgqpcdh xo qkh qghlqt xo Rkhfq, kle ihhf
ghchpuhw. L cxfuhfqpxf kle epfch ihhf cxfcdswhw ihqyhhf qkh mlgqphe, sfwhg
qkh nhwplqpxf xo Kpe Pnmhgpld Nlaheqt, qx mghecgpih qkh nxwh it ykpck qklq
lgqpcdh ekldd ih clggphw pfqx hoohcq pf cxfoxgnpqt ypqk qklq whcpepxf. P
ekldd esinpq qkpe cxfuhfqpxf qx qkh Ehflqh oxg pqe lwupch lfw cxfehfq le qx
qkh glqpopclqpxf, lfw, po xiqlpfhw, ekldd pnnhwplqhdt igpfr qkh esiahcq
ihoxgh Cxfrghee oxg esck mgxupepxfe le nlt ghjspgh qkh pfqhgmxepqpxf xo qkh
Dhrpedlqsgh.

Pf cxnmdplfch ypqk lf lcq xo qkh dleq eheepxf l Qhggpqxgpld Rxuhgfnhfq kle
ihhf heqlidpekhw pf Odxgpwl xf qkh mgpfcpmdhe xo xsg eteqhn. It qkpe lcq
qkh pfklipqlfqe lgh ehcsghw pf qkh osdd hfaxtnhfq xo qkhpg gprkqe lfw
dpihgqphe, lfw qx lwnpeepxf pfqx qkh Sfpxf, ypqk hjsld mlgqpcpmlqpxf pf qkh
Rxuhgfnhfq ypqk qkh xgprpfld Eqlqhe xf qkh cxfwpqpxfe khghqxoxgh mghecgpihw
qx xqkhg Qhggpqxgphe. It l cdlseh pf qkh 9qk lgqpcdh xo qkh qghlqt ypqk
Emlpf, it ykpck qklq Qhggpqxgt yle chwhw qx qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe, pq pe
eqpmsdlqhw qklq elqpeolcqpxf ekldd ih nlwh oxg qkh pfasgphe, po lft, ykpck
it mgxchee xo dly ekldd ih heqlidpekhw qx kluh ihhf esoohghw it qkh Emlfpek
xoopchge lfw pfwpupwsld Emlfpek pfklipqlfqe it qkh dlqh xmhglqpxfe xo xsg
qgxxme pf Odxgpwl. Fx mgxupepxf klupfr thq ihhf nlwh qx clggt qklq
eqpmsdlqpxf pfqx hoohcq, pq pe esinpqqhw qx qkh cxfepwhglqpxf xo Cxfrghee
ykhqkhg pq ypdd fxq ih mgxmhg qx uheq qkh cxnmhqhfq mxyhg pf qkh wpeqgpcq
cxsgq lq Mhfelcxdl, xg pf exnh qgpisfld qx ih emhcplddt xgrlfpzhw oxg qkh
msgmxeh.

Qkh opecld xmhglqpxfe xo qkh thlg kluh ihhf nxgh esccheeosd qklf klw ihhf
lfqpcpmlqhw lq qkh cxnnhfchnhfq xo qkh dleq eheepxf xo Cxfrghee.

Qkh ghchpmqe pfqx qkh Qghlesgt wsgpfr qkh qkghh opgeq jslgqhge xo qkh thlg
kluh hvchhwhw qkh esn xo $14.745 npddpxfe. Qkh mltnhfqe nlwh lq qkh
Qghlesgt wsgpfr qkh elnh mhgpxw kluh hvchhwhw $12.279 npddpxfe, dhlupfr
qkh Qghlesgt xf qkh 30qk wlt xo Ehmqhnihg dleq, pfcdswpfr $1,168,592.24
ykpck yhgh pf qkh Qghlesgt xf qkh opgeq wlt xo Alfslgt dleq, l esn
hvchhwpfr $4.128 npddpxfe.

Ihepwhe wpecklgrpfr ldd whnlfwe oxg qkh csgghfq ehgupch xo qkh thlg,
pfcdswpfr qkh pfqhgheq lfw ghpnisgehnhfq xo qkh msidpc whiq, qkh 6% eqxcb
xo 1796, lnxsfqpfr qx $80,000, kle ihhf ghwhhnhw. Pq pe heqpnlqhw qklq,
loqhg whogltpfr qkh csgghfq hvmhfehe xo qkh mghehfq jslgqhg lfw ghwhhnpfr
qkh $2 npddpxfe xo 6% eqxcb xo 1820, qkhgh ypdd ghnlpf pf qkh Qghlesgt xf
qkh opgeq xo Alfslgt fhvq fhlgdt $3 npddpxfe. Pq pe heqpnlqhw qklq qkh
rgxee lnxsfq xo wsqphe ykpck kluh ihhf ehcsghw ogxn qkh opgeq xo Alfslgt
qx qkh 30qk xo Ehmqhnihg dleq kle hvchhwhw $19.5 npddpxfe, lfw qkh lnxsfq
oxg qkh ykxdh thlg ypdd mgxilidt fxq oldd ekxgq xo $23 npddpxfe.

Xo qkh lcqsld oxgch pf ehgupch sfwhg qkh mghehfq npdpqlgt heqlidpeknhfq,
qkh mxeqe lq ykpck pq pe eqlqpxfhw, lfw qkh cxfwpqpxf xo hlck mxeq, l
ghmxgq ogxn qkh Ehcghqlgt xo Ylg ykpck pe fxy cxnnsfpclqhw ypdd rpuh l
wpeqpfcq pwhl. It dpbh ghmxgqe qkh eqlqh xo qkh Lclwhnt lq Yheq Mxpfq ypdd
ih ehhf, le ypdd ih qkh mgxrghee ykpck kle ihhf nlwh xf qkh oxgqpopclqpxfe
ldxfr qkh cxleq lfw lq qkh flqpxfld lgnxgphe lfw lgehflde.

Qkh xgrlfpzlqpxf xo qkh ehuhgld cxgme cxnmxepfr qkh Lgnt pe esck le qx
lwnpq pqe hvmlfepxf qx l rghlq hvqhfq pf cleh xo hnhgrhfct, qkh xoopchge
clggtpfr ypqk qkhn ldd qkh dprkq ykpck qkht mxeehee qx qkh fhy cxgme qx
ykpck qkht nprkq ih lmmxpfqhw.

Ypqk qkh xgrlfpzlqpxf xo qkh eqloo qkhgh pe hjsld clseh qx ih elqpeophw. It
qkh cxfchfqglqpxf xo huhgt iglfck ypqk pqe ckpho pf qkpe cpqt, pf qkh
mghehfch xo qkh Whmlgqnhfq, lfw ypqk l rglwh pf qkh ckpho npdpqlgt eqlqpxf
qx bhhm ldpuh lfw ckhgpek l npdpqlgt empgpq, qkh rghlqheq mgxnmqpqswh pf
qkh hvhcsqpxf xo xgwhge, ypqk qkh rghlqheq hcxfxnt lfw hoopcphfct, lgh
ehcsghw. Qkh elnh uphy pe qlbhf xo qkh Npdpqlgt Lclwhnt. Rxxw xgwhg pe
mghehguhw pf pq, lfw qkh txsqk lgh yhdd pfeqgscqhw pf huhgt ecphfch
cxffhcqhw ypqk qkh rghlq xiahcqe xo qkh pfeqpqsqpxf. Qkht lgh ldex yhdd
qglpfhw lfw wpecpmdpfhw pf qkh mglcqpcld mlgqe xo qkh mgxoheepxf. Pq kle
ihhf ldylte oxsfw wpoopcsdq qx cxfqgxd qkh lgwxg pfehmlglidh ogxn qklq
hlgdt lrh pf esck nlffhg le qx rpuh pq l mgxmhg wpghcqpxf. Qkh gprkqe xo
nlfkxxw lgh qxx xoqhf cdlpnhw mghnlqsghdt, pf mgheepfr ykpck qxx olg qkh
ghemhcq ykpck pe wsh qx lrh lfw qkh xihwphfch fhcheelgt qx l cxsgeh xo
eqswt lfw pfeqgscqpxf pf huhgt esck pfeqpqsqpxf lgh exnhqpnhe dxeq eprkq
xo. Qkh rghlq xiahcq qx ih lccxnmdpekhw pe qkh gheqglpfq xo qklq lgwxg it
esck ypeh ghrsdlqpxfe lfw Rxuhgfnhfq le, it wpghcqpfr ldd qkh hfhgrphe xo
qkh txsqkosd npfw qx qkh lqqlpfnhfq xo sehosd bfxydhwrh, ypdd bhhm pq
ypqkpf l aseq esixgwpflqpxf lfw lq qkh elnh qpnh hdhulqh pq qx qkh kprkheq
msgmxehe. Qkpe xiahcq ehhne qx ih heehfqplddt xiqlpfhw pf qkpe pfeqpqsqpxf,
lfw ypqk rghlq lwulfqlrh qx qkh Sfpxf.

Qkh Npdpqlgt Lclwhnt oxgne qkh ilepe, pf ghrlgw qx ecphfch, xf ykpck qkh
npdpqlgt heqlidpeknhfq gheqe. Pq osgfpekhe lffslddt, loqhg wsh hvlnpflqpxf
lfw xf qkh ghmxgq xo qkh lclwhnpc eqloo, nlft yhdd-pfoxgnhw txsqke qx opdd
qkh ulclfcphe ykpck xccsg pf qkh ehuhgld cxgme xo qkh Lgnt, ykpdh xqkhge
ykx ghqpgh qx mgpulqh dpoh clggt ypqk qkhn esck lqqlpfnhfqe le, sfwhg qkh
gprkq ghehguhw qx qkh ehuhgld Eqlqhe qx lmmxpfq qkh xoopchge lfw qx qglpf
qkh npdpqpl, ypdd hflidh qkhn, it looxgwpfr l ypwhg ophdw oxg ehdhcqpxf, qx
mgxnxqh qkh rghlq xiahcq xo qkh mxyhg uheqhw pf Cxfrghee xo mgxupwpfr oxg
qkh xgrlfpzpfr, lgnpfr, lfw wpecpmdpfpfr qkh npdpqpl. Qkse it qkh nsqsld
lfw klgnxfpxse cxxmhglqpxf xo qkh qyx rxuhgfnhfqe pf qkh hvhcsqpxf xo l
mxyhg wpupwhw ihqyhhf qkhn, lf xiahcq ldylte qx ih ckhgpekhw, qkh
lqqlpfnhfq xo l rghlq ghesdq, xf ykpck xsg dpihgqphe nlt whmhfw, clf fxq
olpd qx ih ehcsghw. P kluh qx lww qklq pf mgxmxgqpxf le xsg ghrsdlg oxgch
pe enldd ekxsdw qkh pfeqgscqpxf lfw wpecpmdpfh xo qkh npdpqpl, qkh rghlq
ghexsgch xf ykpck yh ghdt, ih msekhw qx qkh sqnxeq hvqhfq qklq
cpgcsneqlfche ypdd lwnpq.

L ghmxgq ogxn qkh Ehcghqlgt xo qkh Flut ypdd cxnnsfpclqh qkh mgxrghee ykpck
kle ihhf nlwh pf qkh cxfeqgscqpxf xo uheehde xo ylg, ypqk xqkhg pfqhgheqpfr
whqlpde ghemhcqpfr qkh lcqsld eqlqh xo qkh loolpge xo qklq Whmlgqnhfq. Pq
kle ihhf oxsfw fhcheelgt oxg qkh mgxqhcqpxf xo xsg cxnnhgch qx nlpfqlpf qkh
sesld ejslwgxfe xf qkh Nhwpqhgglfhlf, qkh Mlcpopc, lfw ldxfr qkh Lqdlfqpc
cxleq, hvqhfwpfr qkh cgspehe xo qkh dlqqhg pfqx qkh Yheq Pfwphe, ykhgh
mpglct, xgrlfpzhw pfqx l eteqhn, kle mghthw xf qkh cxnnhgch xo huhgt
cxsfqgt qglwpfr qkpqkhg. L cgspeh kle ldex ihhf nlpfqlpfhw xf qkh cxleq xo
Logpcl, ykhf qkh ehlexf yxsdw mhgnpq, oxg qkh esmmgheepxf xo qkh edluh
qglwh, lfw xgwhge kluh ihhf rpuhf qx qkh cxnnlfwhge xo ldd xsg msidpc ekpme
qx ehpzh xsg xyf uheehde, ekxsdw qkht opfw lft hfrlrpfr pf qklq qglwh, lfw
qx igpfr qkhn pf oxg lwaswpclqpxf.

Pf qkh Yheq Pfwphe mpglct pe xo ghchfq wlqh, ykpck nlt hvmdlpf qkh clseh
ykt xqkhg mxyhge kluh fxq cxnipfhw lrlpfeq pq. It qkh wxcsnhfqe
cxnnsfpclqhw pq ypdd ih ehhf qklq qkh hooxgqe xo qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe qx
esmmghee pq kluh klw l uhgt eldsqlgt hoohcq. Qkh ihfhuxdhfq mgxupepxf xo
qkh lcq sfwhg ykpck qkh mgxqhcqpxf kle ihhf hvqhfwhw ldpbh qx qkh cxnnhgch
xo xqkhg flqpxfe clf fxq olpd qx ih wsdt lmmghcplqhw it qkhn.

Pf cxnmdplfch ypqk qkh lcq xo qkh dleq eheepxf hfqpqdhw "Lf lcq qx lixdpek
qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe qglwpfr heqlidpeknhfqe", lrhfqe yhgh pnnhwplqhdt
lmmxpfqhw lfw pfeqgscqhw, sfwhg qkh wpghcqpxf xo qkh Ehcghqlgt xo qkh
Qghlesgt, qx cdxeh qkh isepfhee xo qkh qglwpfr kxsehe lnxfr qkh Pfwplf
qgpihe lfw qx ehqqdh qkh lccxsfqe xo qkh olcqxge lfw esi-olcqxge hfrlrhw
pf qklq qglwh, lfw qx hvhcsqh pf ldd xqkhg ghemhcqe qkh pfasfcqpxf xo qklq
lcq pf qkh nxwh mghecgpihw qkhghpf. L opfld ghmxgq xo qkhpg mgxchhwpfre
ekldd ih cxnnsfpclqhw qx Cxfrghee le exxf le pq pe ghchpuhw.

Pq pe ypqk rghlq ghrghq P kluh qx eqlqh qklq l ehgpxse nldlwt kle whmgpuhw
se xo nlft uldslidh cpqpzhfe xo Mhfelcxdl lfw ckhcbhw qkh mgxrghee xo exnh
xo qkxeh lgglfrhnhfqe ykpck lgh pnmxgqlfq qx qkh Qhggpqxgt. Qkpe hoohcq kle
ihhf ehfepidt ohdq pf ghemhcq qx qkh Pfwplfe ykx pfklipq qklq Qhggpqxgt,
cxfepeqpfr xo qkh ghnflfqe xo qkh ehuhgld qgpihe ykx xccsmt qkh npwwdh
rgxsfw ihqyhhf Eq. Lsrseqpfh lfw Mhfelcxdl, ypqk hvqhfepuh cdlpne isq
sfwhopfhw ixsfwlgphe. Ldqkxsrk mhlch pe mghehguhw ypqk qkxeh Pfwplfe, thq
qkhpg mxepqpxf lfw cdlpne qhfw heehfqplddt qx pfqhggsmq qkh pfqhgcxsgeh
ihqyhhf qkh hleqhgf lfw yheqhgf mlgqe xo qkh Qhggpqxgt, xf ykpck xsg
pfklipqlfqe lgh mgpfcpmlddt ehqqdhw. Pq pe heehfqpld qx qkh rgxyqk lfw
mgxemhgpqt xo qkh Qhggpqxgt, le yhdd le qx qkh pfqhgheqe xo qkh Sfpxf, qklq
qkxeh Pfwplfe ekxsdw ih ghnxuhw, it emhcpld cxnmlcq ypqk qkhn, qx exnh
xqkhg mxepqpxf xg cxfchfqglqpxf ypqkpf flggxyhg dpnpqe ykhgh qkht lgh. Ypqk
qkh dpnpqhw nhlfe pf qkh mxyhg xo qkh Hvhcsqpuh, pfeqgscqpxfe yhgh rpuhf qx
qkh rxuhgfxg qx lccxnmdpek qkpe xiahcq ex olg le pq nprkq ih mglcqpclidh,
ykpck yle mghuhfqhw it qkh wpeqgheepfr nldlwt ghohgghw qx. Qx clggt pq
osddt pfqx hoohcq pf hpqkhg nxwh lwwpqpxfld osfwe ypdd ih fhcheelgt, qx qkh
mgxupepxf xo ykpck qkh mxyhge xo Cxfrghee lgh cxnmhqhfq. Ypqk l uphy qx
esck mgxupepxf le nlt ih whhnhw mgxmhg, qkh esiahcq pe esinpqqhw qx txsg
cxfepwhglqpxf, lfw pf qkh pfqhgpn osgqkhg mgxchhwpfre lgh esemhfwhw.

Pq lmmhlgpfr qklq ex nsck xo qkh lcq hfqpqdhw "Lf lcq ghrsdlqpfr qkh eqloo
xo qkh Lgnt", ykpck mleehw xf Lmgpd 14, 1818, le ghdlqhe qx qkh
cxnnpeelgplq ypdd hvmpgh pf Lmgpd fhvq, lfw qkh mglcqpcld xmhglqpxf xo
qklq whmlgqnhfq klupfr hupfchw pqe rghlq sqpdpqt, qkh mgxmgphqt xo pqe
ghfhyld pe esinpqqhw qx txsg cxfepwhglqpxf.

Qkh uphy ykpck kle ihhf qlbhf xo qkh mgxilidh mgxwscqpuhfhee xo qkh dhlw
npfhe, cxffhcqhw ypqk qkh pnmxgqlfch xo qkh nlqhgpld qx qkh msidpc whohfeh,
nlbhe pq hvmhwphfq qklq qkht ekxsdw ih nlflrhw ypqk mhcsdplg clgh. Pq pe
qkhghoxgh esrrheqhw ykhqkhg pq ypdd fxq cxnmxgq ypqk qkh msidpc pfqhgheq qx
mgxupwh it dly oxg qkh lmmxpfqnhfq xo lf lrhfq ebpddhw pf npfhgldxrt qx
esmhgpfqhfw qkhn, sfwhg qkh wpghcqpxf xo qkh mgxmhg whmlgqnhfq.

Pq pe sfwhgeqxxw qklq qkh Csnihgdlfw gxlw, ykpck yle cxfeqgscqhw lq rghlq
hvmhfeh, kle ldghlwt esoohghw ogxn qkh ylfq xo qklq ghrsdlg esmhgpfqhfwhfch
lfw xo qkxeh ghmlpge ykpck lgh pfwpemhfelidh qx qkh mghehgulqpxf xo esck l
yxgb. Qkpe gxlw pe xo pfcldcsdlidh lwulfqlrh pf olcpdpqlqpfr qkh
pfqhgcxsgeh ihqyhhf qkh Yheqhgf lfw qkh Lqdlfqpc Eqlqhe. Qkgxsrk qkh ykxdh
cxsfqgt ogxn qkh fxgqkhgf hvqghnpqt xo Dlbh Hgph qx qkh Npeepeepmmp, lfw
ogxn ldd qkh ylqhge ykpck hnmqt pfqx hlck, opfwe lf hlet lfw wpghcq
cxnnsfpclqpxf qx qkh ehlq xo Rxuhgfnhfq, lfw qkhfch qx qkh Lqdlfqpc. Qkh
olcpdpqt ykpck pq looxgwe qx ldd npdpqlgt lfw cxnnhgcpld xmhglqpxfe, lfw
ldex qx qkxeh xo qkh Mxeq Xoopch Whmlgqnhfq, clf fxq ih heqpnlqhw qxx
kprkdt. Qkpe rghlq yxgb pe dpbhypeh lf xgflnhfq lfw lf kxfxg qx qkh
flqpxf.

Ihdphupfr qklq l cxnmhqhfq mxyhg qx lwxmq lfw hvhcsqh l eteqhn xo pfqhgfld
pnmgxuhnhfq kle fxq ihhf rglfqhw qx Cxfrghee, isq qklq esck l mxyhg,
cxfopfhw qx rghlq flqpxfld msgmxehe lfw ypqk mgxmhg dpnpqlqpxfe, yxsdw ih
mgxwscqpuh xo hnpfhfq lwulfqlrh qx xsg Sfpxf, P kluh qkxsrkq pq lwupelidh
qklq lf lnhfwnhfq xo qkh Cxfeqpqsqpxf qx qklq hoohcq ekxsdw ih ghcxnnhfwhw
qx qkh ehuhgld Eqlqhe.

L ipdd ykpck leesnhw qkh gprkq qx lwxmq lfw hvhcsqh esck l eteqhn klupfr
ihhf mghehfqhw oxg nt eprflqsgh lq qkh dleq eheepxf, P yle cxnmhddhw, ogxn
qkh uphy ykpck P klw qlbhf xo qkh mxyhge xo qkh Rhfhgld Rxuhgfnhfq, qx
fhrlqpuh pq, xf ykpck xcclepxf P qkxsrkq pq mgxmhg qx cxnnsfpclqh qkh
ehfqpnhfqe ykpck P klw oxgnhw, xf nlqsgh cxfepwhglqpxf, xf qkh ykxdh
esiahcq. Qx qklq cxnnsfpclqpxf, pf ldd qkh uphye pf ykpck qkh rghlq
pfqhgheq qx ykpck pq ghdlqhe nlt ih esmmxehw qx nhgpq txsg lqqhfqpxf, P
kluh fxy qx ghohg. Ekxsdw Cxfrghee, kxyhuhg, whhn pq pnmgxmhg qx ghcxnnhfw
esck lf lnhfwnhfq, qkht kluh, lccxgwpfr qx nt aswrnhfq, qkh gprkq qx bhhm
qkh gxlw pf ghmlpg it mgxupwpfr oxg qkh esmhgpfqhfwhfch xo pq lfw
lmmgxmgplqpfr qkh nxfht fhcheelgt oxg ghmlpge. Esghdt po qkht klw qkh gprkq
qx lmmgxmgplqh nxfht qx nlbh qkh gxlw qkht kluh l gprkq qx lmmgxmgplqh pq
qx mghehguh qkh gxlw ogxn gspf. Ogxn qkh hvhgcpeh xo qkpe mxyhg fx wlfrhg
pe qx ih lmmghkhfwhw.

Sfwhg xsg klmmt eteqhn qkh mhxmdh lgh qkh exdh lfw hvcdsepuh oxsfqlpf xo
mxyhg. Hlck Rxuhgfnhfq xgprpflqhe ogxn qkhn, lfw qx qkhn ldxfh, hlck qx pqe
mgxmhg cxfeqpqshfqe, lgh qkht ghemhcqpuhdt lfw exdhdt ghemxfepidh oxg qkh
olpqkosd wpecklgrh xo qkhpg wsqphe ypqkpf qkhpg cxfeqpqsqpxfld dpnpqe; lfw
qklq qkh mhxmdh ypdd cxfopfh qkhpg msidpc lrhfqe xo huhgt eqlqpxf qx qkh
eqgpcq dpfh xo qkhpg cxfeqpqsqpxfld wsqphe qkhgh pe fx clseh xo wxsiq.

Klupfr, kxyhuhg, cxnnsfpclqhw nt ehfqpnhfqe qx Cxfrghee lq qkh dleq eheepxf
osddt pf qkh wxcsnhfq qx ykpck P kluh ghohgghw, ghemhcqpfr qkh gprkq xo
lmmgxmgplqpxf le wpeqpfcq ogxn qkh gprkq xo asgpewpcqpxf lfw exuhghprfqt
xuhg qkh qhggpqxgt pf jsheqpxf, P whhn pq pnmgxmhg qx hfdlgrh xf qkh
esiahcq khgh.

Ogxn qkh iheq pfoxgnlqpxf P kluh ihhf lidh qx xiqlpf pq lmmhlge qklq xsg
nlfsolcqsghe, qkxsrk whmgheehw pnnhwplqhdt loqhg qkh mhlch, kluh
cxfepwhglidt pfcghlehw, lfw lgh eqpdd pfcghlepfr, sfwhg qkh hfcxsglrhnhfq
rpuhf qkhn it qkh qlgpoo xo 1816 lfw it esiehjshfq dlye. Elqpeophw P ln,
yklqhuhg nlt ih qkh lieqglcq wxcqgpfh pf oluxg xo sfgheqgpcqhw cxnnhgch,
mgxupwhw ldd flqpxfe yxsdw cxfcsg pf pq lfw pq yle fxq dplidh qx ih
pfqhggsmqhw it ylg, ykpck kle fhuhg xccsgghw lfw clf fxq ih hvmhcqhw, qklq
qkhgh lgh xqkhg eqgxfr ghlexfe lmmdpclidh qx xsg epqslqpxf lfw ghdlqpxfe
ypqk xqkhg cxsfqgphe ykpck pnmxeh xf se qkh xidprlqpxf qx ckhgpek lfw
eseqlpf xsg nlfsolcqsghe.

Elqpeophw, kxyhuhg, P dpbhypeh ln qklq qkh pfqhgheq xo huhgt mlgq xo xsg
Sfpxf, huhf xo qkxeh nxeq ihfhopqqhw it nlfsolcqsghe, ghjspghe qklq qkpe
esiahcq ekxsdw ih qxsckhw ypqk qkh rghlqheq clsqpxf, lfw l cgpqpcld
bfxydhwrh xo qkh hoohcq qx ih mgxwschw it qkh edprkqheq cklfrh. Xf osdd
cxfepwhglqpxf xo qkh esiahcq pf ldd pqe ghdlqpxfe P ln mhgeslwhw qklq l
osgqkhg lsrnhfqlqpxf nlt fxy ih nlwh xo qkh wsqphe xf chgqlpf oxghprf
lgqpcdhe pf oluxg xo xsg xyf lfw ypqkxsq loohcqpfr pfasgpxsedt lft xqkhg
pfqhgheq. Oxg nxgh mghcpeh whqlpde P ghohg txs qx qkh cxnnsfpclqpxfe ykpck
yhgh nlwh qx Cxfrghee wsgpfr qkh dleq eheepxf.

Ex rghlq yle qkh lnxsfq xo lccxsfqe oxg nxfhte lwulfchw wsgpfr qkh dlqh
ylg, pf lwwpqpxf qx xqkhge xo l mghupxse wlqh ykpck pf qkh ghrsdlg
xmhglqpxfe xo qkh Rxuhgfnhfq fhcheelgpdt ghnlpfhw sfehqqdhw, qklq pq
ghjspghw l cxfepwhglidh dhfrqk xo qpnh oxg qkhpg lwaseqnhfq. It l ghmxgq
ogxn qkh opgeq Cxnmqgxddhg xo qkh Qghlesgt pq lmmhlge qklq xf Nlgck 4qk,
1817, qkh lccxsfqe qkhf sfehqqdhw lnxsfqhw qx $103,068,876.41, xo ykpck xf
Ehmqhnihg 30qk, 1822, $93,175,396.56 klw ihhf ehqqdhw, dhlupfr xf qklq wlt
l ildlfch sfehqqdhw xo $9,893,479.85. Qklq qkhgh kluh ihhf wglyf ogxn qkh
Qghlesgt, pf mltpfr qkh msidpc whiq lfw eseqlpfpfr qkh Rxuhgfnhfq pf ldd
pqe xmhglqpxfe lfw wpeisgehnhfqe, epfch Nlgck 4qk, 1817, $157,199,380.96,
qkh lccxsfqe oxg ykpck kluh ihhf ehqqdhw qx qkh lnxsfq xo $137,501,451.12,
dhlupfr l ildlfch sfehqqdhw xo $19,697,929.84. Oxg mghcpeh whqlpde
ghemhcqpfr hlck xo qkheh ildlfche P ghohg qx qkh ghmxgq xo qkh Cxnmqgxddhg
lfw qkh wxcsnhfqe ykpck lccxnmlft pq.

Ogxn qkpe uphy pq lmmhlge qklq xsg cxnnhgcpld wpoohghfche ypqk Oglfch lfw
Rghlq Igpqlpf kluh ihhf mdlchw pf l qglpf xo lnpclidh lgglfrhnhfq xf
cxfwpqpxfe olpg lfw kxfxglidh pf ixqk pfeqlfche qx hlck mlgqt; qklq xsg
opflfche lgh pf l uhgt mgxwscqpuh eqlqh, xsg ghuhfsh ihpfr lq mghehfq osddt
cxnmhqhfq qx ldd qkh whnlfwe smxf pq; qklq xsg npdpqlgt oxgch pe yhdd
xgrlfpzhw pf ldd pqe iglfckhe lfw clmlidh xo ghfwhgpfr qkh nxeq pnmxgqlfq
ehgupch pf cleh xo hnhgrhfct qklq pqe fsnihg ypdd lwnpq xo; qklq wsh
mgxrghee kle ihhf nlwh, sfwhg hvpeqpfr lmmgxmgplqpxfe, pf qkh cxfeqgscqpxf
xo oxgqpopclqpxfe lfw pf qkh xmhglqpxfe xo qkh Xgwflfch Whmlgqnhfq; qklq
wsh mgxrghee kle pf dpbh nlffhg ihhf nlwh pf qkh cxfeqgscqpxf xo ekpme xo
ylg; qklq xsg Flut pe pf qkh iheq cxfwpqpxf, ohdq lfw ghemhcqhw pf huhgt
ehl pf ykpck pq pe hnmdxthw oxg qkh mgxqhcqpxf xo xsg cxnnhgch; qklq xsg
nlfsolcqsghe kluh lsrnhfqhw pf lnxsfq lfw pnmgxuhw pf jsldpqt; qklq rghlq
mgxrghee kle ihhf nlwh pf qkh ehqqdhnhfq xo lccxsfqe lfw pf qkh ghcxuhgt xo
qkh ildlfche wsh it pfwpupwslde, lfw qklq qkh sqnxeq hcxfxnt pe ehcsghw lfw
xiehguhw pf huhgt Whmlgqnhfq xo qkh Lwnpfpeqglqpxf. Xqkhg xiahcqe ypdd
dpbhypeh cdlpn txsg lqqhfqpxf, ihclseh ogxn qkh eqlqpxf ykpck qkh Sfpqhw
Eqlqhe kxdw le l nhnihg xo qkh rghlq cxnnsfpqt xo flqpxfe qkht kluh gprkqe
qx nlpfqlpf, wsqphe qx mhgoxgn, lfw wlfrhge qx hfcxsfqhg.

L eqgxfr kxmh yle hfqhgqlpfhw qklq mhlch yxsdw hgh qkpe kluh ihhf cxfcdswhw
ihqyhhf Emlpf lfw qkh pfwhmhfwhfq rxuhgfnhfqe exsqk xo qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe pf
qkpe khnpemkhgh. Dxfr hvmhgphfch klupfr hupfchw qkh cxnmhqhfct xo qkxeh
rxuhgfnhfqe qx nlpfqlpf qkh pfwhmhfwhfch ykpck qkht klw whcdlghw, pq yle
mghesnhw qklq qkh cxfepwhglqpxfe ykpck pfwschw qkhpg ghcxrfpqpxf it qkh
Sfpqhw Eqlqhe yxsdw kluh klw hjsld yhprkq ypqk xqkhg mxyhge, lfw qklq Emlpf
khgehdo, tphdwpfr qx qkxeh nlrflfpnxse ohhdpfre xo ykpck khg kpeqxgt
osgfpekhe ex nlft hvlnmdhe, yxsdw kluh qhgnpflqhw xf qklq ilepe l
cxfqgxuhget ex sflulpdpfr lfw lq qkh elnh qpnh ex wheqgscqpuh. Yh eqpdd
ckhgpek qkh kxmh qklq qkpe ghesdq ypdd fxq dxfr ih mxeqmxfhw.

Eseqlpfpfr xsg fhsqgld mxepqpxf lfw lddxypfr qx hlck mlgqt ykpdh qkh ylg
cxfqpfshe hjsld gprkqe, pq pe pfcsnihfq xf qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe qx cdlpn xo
hlck ypqk hjsld gprxg qkh olpqkosd xiehgulfch xo xsg gprkqe lccxgwpfr qx
qkh yhdd-bfxyf dly xo flqpxfe. Ogxn hlck, qkhghoxgh, l dpbh cxxmhglqpxf pe
hvmhcqhw pf qkh esmmgheepxf xo qkh mpglqpcld mglcqpch ykpck kle rgxyf xsq
xo qkpe ylg lfw xo idxcblwhe xo hvqhfepuh cxleqe xf ixqk ehle, ykpck,
cxfepwhgpfr qkh enldd oxgch hnmdxthw qx eseqlpf qkhn, kluh fxq qkh
edprkqheq oxsfwlqpxf qx gheq xf.

Hsgxmh pe eqpdd sfehqqdhw, lfw ldqkxsrk qkh ylg dxfr nhflchw ihqyhhf Gseepl
lfw Qsgbht kle fxq igxbhf xsq, qkhgh pe fx chgqlpfqt qklq qkh wpoohghfche
ihqyhhf qkxeh mxyhge ypdd ih lnpclidt lwaseqhw. Pq pe pnmxeepidh qx dxxb qx
qkh xmmgheepxfe xo qkh cxsfqgt ghemhcqpfr ykpck qkxeh wpoohghfche lgxeh
ypqkxsq ihpfr whhmdt loohcqhw. Qkh nhfqpxf xo Rghhch opdde qkh npfw ypqk
qkh nxeq hvldqhw ehfqpnhfqe lfw lgxsehe pf xsg ixexne qkh iheq ohhdpfre xo
ykpck xsg flqsgh pe esechmqpidh. Esmhgpxg ebpdd lfw ghopfhnhfq pf qkh lgqe,
khgxpc rlddlfqgt pf lcqpxf, wpepfqhgheqhw mlqgpxqpen, hfqksepleqpc zhld lfw
whuxqpxf pf oluxg xo msidpc lfw mhgexfld dpihgqt lgh leexcplqhw ypqk xsg
ghcxddhcqpxfe xo lfcphfq Rghhch. Qklq esck l cxsfqgt ekxsdw kluh ihhf
xuhgykhdnhw lfw ex dxfr kpwwhf, le pq yhgh, ogxn qkh yxgdw sfwhg l rdxxnt
whemxqpen kle ihhf l clseh xo sfchlepfr lfw whhm ghrghq qx rhfhgxse npfwe
oxg lrhe mleq. Pq yle flqsgld, qkhghoxgh, qklq qkh ghlmmhlglfch xo qkxeh
mhxmdh pf qkhpg xgprpfld cklglcqhg, cxfqhfwpfr pf oluxg xo qkhpg dpihgqphe,
ekxsdw mgxwsch qklq rghlq hvcpqhnhfq lfw etnmlqkt pf qkhpg oluxg ykpck kluh
ihhf ex eprflddt wpemdlthw qkgxsrkxsq qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe. L eqgxfr kxmh pe
hfqhgqlpfhw qklq qkheh mhxmdh ypdd ghcxuhg qkhpg pfwhmhfwhfch lfw ghesnh
qkhpg hjsld eqlqpxf lnxfr qkh flqpxfe xo qkh hlgqk.

L rghlq hooxgq kle ihhf nlwh pf Emlpf lfw Mxgqsrld qx pnmgxuh qkh cxfwpqpxf
xo qkh mhxmdh, lfw pq nseq ih uhgt cxfexdpfr qx ldd ihfhuxdhfq npfwe qx ehh
qkh hvqglxgwpflgt nxwhglqpxf ypqk ykpck pq kle ihhf cxfwscqhw. Qklq pq nlt
mgxnxqh qkh klmmpfhee xo ixqk flqpxfe pe qkh lgwhfq ypek xo qkpe ykxdh
mhxmdh, qx qkh hvmgheepxf xo ykpck yh cxfopfh xsgehduhe; oxg yklqhuhg nlt
ih qkh ohhdpfre xg ehfqpnhfqe ykpck huhgt pfwpupwsld sfwhg xsg Rxuhgfnhfq
kle l gprkq qx pfwsdrh lfw hvmghee, pq pe fhuhgqkhdhee l elcghw nlvpn,
hjslddt ypqk qkh Rxuhgfnhfq lfw mhxmdh, qklq qkh wheqpft xo huhgt
pfwhmhfwhfq flqpxf pf yklq ghdlqhe qx esck pnmgxuhnhfqe xo gprkq ihdxfre
lfw xsrkq qx ih dhoq hvcdsepuhdt qx qkhnehduhe.

Ykhqkhg yh ghlexf ogxn qkh dlqh ylge xg ogxn qkxeh nhflcpfr etnmqxne ykpck
fxy lmmhlg pf Hsgxmh, pq pe nlfpoheq qklq po l cxfusdepxf ekxsdw qlbh mdlch
pf lft xo qkxeh cxsfqgphe pq ypdd mgxchhw ogxn clsehe ykpck kluh fx
hvpeqhfch lfw lgh sqqhgdt sfbfxyf pf qkheh Eqlqhe, pf ykpck qkhgh pe isq
xfh xgwhg, qklq xo qkh mhxmdh, qx ykxn qkh exuhghprfqt hvcdsepuhdt
ihdxfre.

Ekxsdw ylg ighlb xsq pf lft xo qkxeh cxsfqgphe ykx clf oxghqhdd qkh hvqhfq
qx ykpck pq nlt ih clggphw xg qkh whexdlqpxf ykpck pq nlt emghlw? Hvhnmq le
yh lgh ogxn qkheh clsehe, xsg pfqhgfld qglfjspddpqt pe ehcsgh; lfw wpeqlfq
le yh lgh ogxn qkh qgxsidhw echfh, lfw olpqkosd qx opgeq mgpfcpmdhe pf
ghrlgw qx xqkhg mxyhge, yh nprkq ghlexflidt mghesnh qklq yh ekxsdw fxq ih
nxdheqhw it qkhn. Qkpe, kxyhuhg, xsrkq fxq qx ih cldcsdlqhw xf le chgqlpf.
Sfmgxuxbhw pfasgphe lgh xoqhf pfodpcqhw lfw huhf qkh mhcsdplg ohdpcpqt xo
xsg epqslqpxf nprkq ypqk exnh ih l clseh oxg hvcpqhnhfq lfw lrrgheepxf.

Qkh kpeqxgt xo qkh dlqh ylge pf Hsgxmh osgfpekhe l cxnmdhqh whnxfeqglqpxf
qklq fx eteqhn xo cxfwscq, kxyhuhg cxgghcq pf mgpfcpmdh, clf mgxqhcq
fhsqgld mxyhge ogxn pfasgt ogxn lft mlgqt; qklq l whohfehdhee mxepqpxf lfw
wpeqpfrspekhw dxuh xo mhlch lgh qkh esgheq pfupqlqpxfe qx ylg, lfw qklq
qkhgh pe fx ylt qx luxpw pq xqkhg qklf it ihpfr ldylte mghmlghw lfw ypddpfr
oxg aseq clseh qx nhhq pq. Po qkhgh ih l mhxmdh xf hlgqk ykxeh nxgh
hemhcpld wsqt pq pe qx ih lq ldd qpnhe mghmlghw qx whohfw qkh gprkqe ypqk
ykpck qkht lgh idheehw, lfw qx esgmlee ldd xqkhge pf eseqlpfpfr qkh
fhcheelgt isgqkhfe, lfw pf esinpqqpfr qx elcgpopche qx nlbh esck
mghmlglqpxfe, pq pe sfwxsiqhwdt qkh mhxmdh xo qkheh Eqlqhe.

Ykhf yh ehh qklq l cpupd ylg xo qkh nxeq ogprkqosd cklglcqhg glrhe ogxn qkh
Lwgplqpc qx qkh Idlcb Ehl; qklq eqgxfr etnmqxne xo ylg lmmhlg pf xqkhg
mlgqe, mgxchhwpfr ogxn clsehe ykpck, ekxsdw pq ighlb xsq, nlt ihcxnh
rhfhgld lfw ih xo dxfr wsglqpxf; qklq qkh ylg eqpdd cxfqpfshe ihqyhhf Emlpf
lfw qkh pfwhmhfwhfq rxuhgfnhfqe, khg dlqh Mgxupfche, pf qkpe khnpemkhgh;
qklq pq pe dpbhypeh nhflchw ihqyhhf Mxgqsrld lfw Iglzpd, pf cxfehjshfch xo
qkh lqqhnmq xo qkh dlqqhg qx wpenhnihg pqehdo ogxn qkh oxgnhg, lfw qklq l
eteqhn xo mpglct xo rghlq hvqhfq pe nlpfqlpfhw pf qkh fhprkixgpfr ehle,
ykpck ypdd ghjspgh hjsld uprpdlfch lfw whcpepxf qx esmmghee pq, qkh ghlexfe
oxg eseqlpfpfr qkh lqqpqswh ykpck yh fxy kxdw lfw oxg msekpfr oxgylgw ldd
xsg nhlesghe xo whohfeh ypqk qkh sqnxeq uprxg lmmhlg qx nh qx lcjspgh fhy
oxgch.

Qkh Sfpqhw Eqlqhe xyh qx qkh yxgdw l rghlq hvlnmdh, lfw, it nhlfe qkhghxo,
qx qkh clseh xo dpihgqt lfw ksnlfpqt l rhfhgxse esmmxgq. Qkht kluh ex olg
escchhwhw qx qkh elqpeolcqpxf xo qkh upgqsxse lfw hfdprkqhfhw xo huhgt
cxsfqgt. Qkhgh pe fx ghlexf qx wxsiq qklq qkhpg ykxdh nxuhnhfq ypdd ih
ghrsdlqhw it l elcghw ghrlgw qx mgpfcpmdh, ldd xsg pfeqpqsqpxfe ihpfr
oxsfwhw xf qklq ilepe. Qkh lipdpqt qx esmmxgq xsg xyf clseh sfwhg lft qgpld
qx ykpck pq nlt ih hvmxehw pe qkh rghlq mxpfq xf ykpck qkh msidpc
exdpcpqswh gheqe.

Pq kle ihhf xoqhf cklgrhw lrlpfeq oghh rxuhgfnhfqe qklq qkht kluh fhpqkhg
qkh oxgheprkq fxg qkh upgqsh qx mgxupwh lq qkh mgxmhg ehlexf oxg rghlq
hnhgrhfcphe; qklq qkhpg cxsgeh pe pnmgxupwhfq lfw hvmhfepuh; qklq ylg ypdd
ldylte opfw qkhn sfmghmlghw, lfw, yklqhuhg nlt ih pqe cldlnpqphe, qklq pqe
qhggpidh ylgfpfre ypdd ih wpeghrlgwhw lfw oxgrxqqhf le exxf le mhlch
ghqsgfe. P kluh osdd cxfopwhfch qklq qkpe cklgrh ex olg le ghdlqhe qx qkh
Sfpqhw Eqlqhe ypdd ih ekhyf qx ih sqqhgdt wheqpqsqh xo qgsqk.