Hjttfl-Iymyujqp fh mvj Pjqemj eqn Vfrpj fh Kjxkjpjqmemyzjp:

Seqc ysxfkmeqm prowjimp lytt iteys cfrk emmjqmyfq nrkyqa mvj xkjpjqm
pjppyfq, fh lvyiv Y pvett jqnjezfk mf ayzj, yq eyn fh cfrk njtyojkemyfqp, e
wrpm ynje yq mvyp ifssrqyiemyfq. Y rqnjkmegj mvyp nrmc lymv nyhhynjqij,
hkfs mvj zepm jbmjqm fh mvj yqmjkjpmp fq lvyiv Y vezj mf mkjem eqn fh mvjyk
akjem ysxfkmeqij mf jzjkc xfkmyfq fh frk Rqyfq. Y jqmjk fq ym lymv ujet
hkfs e mvfkfrav ifqzyimyfq mvem mvjkj qjzjk lep e xjkyfn pyqij mvj
jpmeotypvsjqm fh frk Kjzftrmyfq lvjq, kjaeknyqa mvj ifqnymyfq fh mvj
iyzytyujn lfktn eqn ymp ojekyqa fq rp, mvjkj lep akjemjk qjijppymc hfk
njzfmyfq yq mvj xrotyi pjkzeqmp mf mvjyk kjpxjimyzj nrmyjp, fk hfk zykmrj,
xemkyfmyps, eqn rqyfq yq frk ifqpmymrjqmp.

Sjjmyqa yq cfr e qjl Ifqakjpp, Y njjs ym xkfxjk mf xkjpjqm mvyp zyjl fh
xrotyi ehheykp yq akjemjk njmeyt mveq syavm fmvjklypj oj qjijppekc. Y nf
ym, vfljzjk, lymv xjirtyek pemypheimyfq, hkfs e gqfltjnaj mvem yq mvyp
kjpxjim Y pvett ifsxtc sfkj hrttc lymv mvj pfrqn xkyqiyxtjp fh frk
Afzjkqsjqm.

Mvj xjfxtj ojyqa lymv rp jbitrpyzjtc mvj pfzjkjyaq, ym yp yqnypxjqpeotj
mvem hrtt yqhfksemyfq oj teyn ojhfkj mvjs fq ett ysxfkmeqm prowjimp, mf
jqeotj mvjs mf jbjkiypj mvem vyav xfljk lymv ifsxtjmj jhhjim. Yh gjxm yq
mvj nekg, mvjc srpm oj yqifsxjmjqm mf ym. Lj ekj ett tyeotj mf jkkfk, eqn
mvfpj lvf ekj jqaeajn yq mvj seqeajsjqm fh xrotyi ehheykp ekj sfkj prowjim
mf jbiymjsjqm eqn mf oj tjn epmkec oc mvjyk xekmyirtek yqmjkjpmp eqn
xeppyfqp mveq mvj akjem ofnc fh frk ifqpmymrjqmp, lvf, tyzyqa em vfsj yq
mvj xrkprym fh mvjyk fknyqekc ezfiemyfqp, ekj iets orm njjxtc yqmjkjpmjn
pxjimemfkp fh jzjqmp eqn fh mvj ifqnrim fh mvfpj lvf ekj xekmyjp mf mvjs.

Mf mvj xjfxtj jzjkc njxekmsjqm fh mvj Afzjkqsjqm eqn jzjkc yqnyzynret yq
jeiv ekj kjpxfqpyotj, eqn mvj sfkj hrtt mvjyk yqhfksemyfq mvj ojmmjk mvjc
ieq wrnaj fh mvj lypnfs fh mvj xftyic xrkprjn eqn fh mvj ifqnrim fh jeiv yq
kjaekn mf ym. Hkfs mvjyk nypxeppyfqemj wrnasjqm sriv eyn sec etlecp oj
fomeyqjn, lvytj mvjyk exxkfoemyfq lytt hfks mvj akjemjpm yqijqmyzj eqn sfpm
akemyhcyqa kjlekn hfk zykmrfrp eimyfqp, eqn mvj nkjen fh mvjyk ijqprkj mvj
ojpm pjirkymc eaeyqpm mvj eorpj fh mvjyk ifqhynjqij. Mvjyk yqmjkjpmp yq ett
zymet drjpmyfqp ekj mvj pesj, eqn mvj ofqn, oc pjqmysjqm ep ljtt ep oc
yqmjkjpm, lytt oj xkfxfkmyfqeotc pmkjqamvjqjn ep mvjc ekj ojmmjk yqhfksjn
fh mvj kjet pmemj fh xrotyi ehheykp, jpxjiyettc yq nyhhyirtm ifqwrqimrkjp.
Ym yp oc priv gqfltjnaj mvem tfiet xkjwrnyijp eqn wjetfrpyjp ekj
prksfrqmjn, eqn mvem e qemyfqet xftyic jbmjqnyqa ymp hfpmjkyqa iekj eqn
xkfmjimyfq mf ett mvj akjem yqmjkjpmp fh frk Rqyfq, yp hfksjn eqn pmjenytc
envjkjn mf.

E xkjiypj gqfltjnaj fh frk kjtemyfqp lymv hfkjyaq xfljkp ep kjpxjimp frk
qjafmyemyfqp eqn mkeqpeimyfqp lymv jeiv yp mvfravm mf oj xekmyirtektc
qjijppekc. Jdrettc qjijppekc yp ym mvem lj pvfrtn hfks e wrpm jpmysemj fh
frk kjpfrkijp, kjzjqrj, eqn xkfakjpp yq jzjkc gyqn fh ysxkfzjsjqm ifqqjimjn
lymv mvj qemyfqet xkfpxjkymc eqn xrotyi njhjqpj. Ym yp oc kjqnjkyqa wrpmyij
mf fmvjk qemyfqp mvem lj sec jbxjim ym hkfs mvjs. Ym yp oc frk eoytymc mf
kjpjqm yqwrkyjp eqn kjnkjpp lkfqap mvem lj sec ezfyn mvjs.

Mvj ifssyppyfqjkp rqnjk mvj 5mv ekmyitj fh mvj mkjemc fh Avjqm, vezyqa
nypeakjjn yq mvjyk fxyqyfqp kjpxjimyqa mvem xfkmyfq fh mvj ofrqnekc ojmljjq
mvj Mjkkymfkyjp fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp eqn fh Akjem Okymeyq mvj jpmeotypvsjqm
fh lvyiv ven ojjq prosymmjn mf mvjs, vezj senj mvjyk kjpxjimyzj kjxfkmp yq
ifsxtyeqij lymv mvem ekmyitj, mvem mvj pesj syavm oj kjhjkkjn mf mvj
njiypyfq fh e hkyjqntc xfljk. Ym ojyqa seqyhjpm, vfljzjk, mvem ym lfrtn oj
nyhhyirtm, yh qfm ysxfppyotj, hfk eqc xfljk mf xjkhfks mvem fhhyij lymvfrm
akjem njtec eqn sriv yqifqzjqyjqij mf ympjth, e xkfxfpet vep ojjq senj oc
mvyp Afzjkqsjqm, eqn eiijnjn mf oc mvem fh Akjem Okymeyq, mf jqnjezfk mf
jpmeotypv mvem ofrqnekc oc esyieotj qjafmyemyfq.

Ym exxjekyqa hkfs tfqa jbxjkyjqij mvem qf pemypheimfkc ekkeqajsjqm ifrtn oj
hfksjn fh mvj ifssjkiyet yqmjkifrkpj ojmljjq mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp eqn mvj
Okymypv iftfqyjp yq mvyp vjsypxvjkj oc tjayptemyzj eimp lvytj jeiv xekmc
xrkprjn ymp flq ifrkpj lymvfrm eakjjsjqm fk ifqijkm lymv mvj fmvjk, e
xkfxfpet vep ojjq senj mf mvj Okymypv Afzjkqsjqm mf kjartemj mvyp ifssjkij
oc mkjemc, ep ym vep ojjq mf ekkeqaj yq tygj seqqjk mvj wrpm iteys fh mvj
iymyujqp fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp yqveoymyqa mvj Pmemjp eqn Mjkkymfkyjp
ofknjkyqa fq mvj tegjp eqn kyzjkp lvyiv jsxmc yqmf mvj Pm. Telkjqij mf mvj
qezyaemyfq fh mvem kyzjk mf mvj fijeq. Hfk mvjpj eqn fmvjk fowjimp fh vyav
ysxfkmeqij mf mvj yqmjkjpmp fh ofmv xekmyjp e qjafmyemyfq vep ojjq fxjqjn
lymv mvj Okymypv Afzjkqsjqm lvyiv ym yp vfxjn lytt vezj e pemypheimfkc
kjprtm.

Mvj ifssyppyfqjkp rqnjk mvj 6mv eqn 7mv ekmyitjp fh mvj mkjemc fh Avjqm
vezyqa priijpphrttc itfpjn mvjyk teofkp yq kjtemyfq mf mvj 6mv, vezj
xkfijjnjn mf mvj nypivekaj fh mvfpj kjtemyqa mf mvj 7mv. Mvjyk xkfakjpp yq
mvj jbmjqpyzj prkzjc kjdrykjn hfk mvj xjkhfkseqij fh mvjyk nrmyjp wrpmyhyjp
mvj xkjprsxmyfq mvem ym lytt oj ifsxtjmjn yq mvj jqpryqa cjek.

Mvj qjafmyemyfq lvyiv ven ojjq tfqa njxjqnyqa lymv mvj Hkjqiv Afzjkqsjqm fq
pjzjket ysxfkmeqm prowjimp, eqn xekmyirtektc hfk e wrpm yqnjsqymc hfk
tfppjp prpmeyqjn yq mvj temj lekp oc mvj iymyujqp fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp
rqnjk rqwrpmyhyeotj pjyurkjp eqn ifqhypiemyfqp fh mvjyk xkfxjkmc, vep qfm
ep cjm ven mvj njpykjn jhhjim. Ep mvyp iteys kjpmp fq mvj pesj xkyqiyxtj
lymv fmvjkp lvyiv vezj ojjq ensymmjn oc mvj Hkjqiv Afzjkqsjqm, ym yp qfm
xjkijyzjn fq lvem wrpm akfrqn ym ieq oj kjwjimjn. E syqypmjk lytt oj
yssjnyemjtc exxfyqmjn mf xkfijjn mf Hkeqij eqn kjprsj mvj qjafmyemyfq fq
mvyp eqn fmvjk prowjimp lvyiv sec ekypj ojmljjq mvj mlf qemyfqp.

Em mvj xkfxfpet fh mvj Krppyeq Ysxjkyet Afzjkqsjqm, senj mvkfrav mvj
syqypmjk fh mvj Jsxjkfk kjpynyqa vjkj, e hrtt xfljk eqn yqpmkrimyfqp vezj
ojjq mkeqpsymmjn mf mvj syqypmjk fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp em Pm. Xjmjkporka mf
ekkeqaj oc esyieotj qjafmyemyfq mvj kjpxjimyzj kyavmp eqn yqmjkjpmp fh mvj
mlf qemyfqp fq mvj Qfkmv Ljpm ifepm fh mvyp ifqmyqjqm. E pysytek xkfxfpet
ven ojjq senj oc Vyp Ysxjkyet Sewjpmc mf mvj Afzjkqsjqm fh Akjem Okymeyq,
lvyiv vep tygjlypj ojjq eiijnjn mf. Mvj Afzjkqsjqm fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp vep
ojjq njpykfrp oc mvyp hkyjqntc xkfijjnyqa fh seqyhjpmyqa mvj akjem zetrj
lvyiv mvjc vezj yqzekyeotc emmeivjn mf mvj hkyjqnpvyx fh mvj Jsxjkfk eqn
mvjyk pftyiymrnj mf irtmyzemj mvj ojpm rqnjkpmeqnyqa lymv vyp Afzjkqsjqm.
Yq mvj nypirppyfqp mf lvyiv mvyp yqmjkjpm vep ayzjq kypj eqn yq mvj
ekkeqajsjqmp oc lvyiv mvjc sec mjksyqemj mvj fiiepyfq vep ojjq wrnajn
xkfxjk hfk eppjkmyqa, ep e xkyqiyxtj yq lvyiv mvj kyavmp eqn yqmjkjpmp fh
mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp ekj yqzftzjn, mvem mvj Esjkyieq ifqmyqjqmp, oc mvj hkjj
eqn yqnjxjqnjqm ifqnymyfq lvyiv mvjc vezj epprsjn eqn seyqmeyq, ekj
vjqijhfkmv qfm mf oj ifqpynjkjn ep prowjimp hfk hrmrkj iftfqyuemyfq oc eqc
Jrkfxjeq xfljkp.

Pyqij mvj itfpj fh mvj tepm pjppyfq fh Ifqakjpp mvj ifssyppyfqjkp eqn
ekoymkemfkp hfk epijkmeyqyqa eqn njmjksyqyqa mvj esfrqm fh yqnjsqyhyiemyfq
lvyiv sec oj nrj mf iymyujqp fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp rqnjk mvj njiypyfq fh Vyp
Ysxjkyet Sewjpmc mvj Jsxjkfk fh Krppye, yq ifqhfksymc mf mvj ifqzjqmyfq
ifqitrnjn em Pm. Xjmjkporka fq Wrtc 12mv, 1822, vezj eppjsotjn yq mvyp
iymc, eqn fkaeqyujn mvjspjtzjp ep e ofekn hfk mvj xjkhfkseqij fh mvj
nrmyjp eppyaqjn mf mvjs oc mvem mkjemc. Mvj ifssyppyfq ifqpmymrmjn rqnjk
mvj 11mv ekmyitj fh mvj mkjemc fh Hjokrekc 22qn, 1819, ojmljjq mvj Rqymjn
Pmemjp eqn Pxeyq yp etpf yq pjppyfq vjkj, eqn ep mvj mjks fh mvkjj cjekp
tysymjn oc mvj mkjemc hfk mvj jbjirmyfq fh mvj mkrpm lytt jbxykj ojhfkj
mvj xjkyfn fh mvj qjbm kjartek sjjmyqa fh Ifqakjpp, mvj emmjqmyfq fh mvj
Tjayptemrkj lytt oj nkelq mf mvj sjeprkjp lvyiv sec oj qjijppekc mf
eiifsxtypv mvj fowjimp hfk lvyiv mvj ifssyppyfq lep yqpmymrmjn.

Yq ifsxtyeqij lymv e kjpftrmyfq fh mvj Vfrpj fh Kjxkjpjqmemyzjp enfxmjn em
mvjyk tepm pjppyfq, yqpmkrimyfqp vezj ojjq ayzjq mf ett mvj syqypmjkp fh
mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp eiikjnymjn mf mvj xfljkp fh Jrkfxj eqn Esjkyie mf xkfxfpj
mvj xkfpikyxmyfq fh mvj Ehkyieq ptezj mkenj oc iteppyqa ym rqnjk mvj
njqfsyqemyfq, eqn yqhtyimyqa fq ymp xjkxjmkemfkp mvj xrqypvsjqm, fh xykeic.
Pvfrtn mvyp xkfxfpet oj eiijnjn mf, ym yp qfm nfromjn mvem mvyp fnyfrp eqn
ikysyqet xkeimyij lytt oj xkfsxmtc eqn jqmykjtc prxxkjppjn. Ym yp jekqjpmtc
vfxjn mvem ym lytt oj eiijnjn mf, hkfs mvj hyks ojtyjh mvem ym yp mvj sfpm
jhhjimret jbxjnyjqm mvem ieq oj enfxmjn hfk mvj xrkxfpj.

Em mvj ifssjqijsjqm fh mvj kjijqm lek ojmljjq Hkeqij eqn Pxeyq ym lep
njitekjn oc mvj Hkjqiv Afzjkqsjqm mvem ym lfrtn akeqm qf ifssyppyfqp mf
xkyzemjjkp, eqn mvem qjymvjk mvj ifssjkij fh Pxeyq vjkpjth qfk fh qjrmket
qemyfqp pvfrtn oj sftjpmjn oc mvj qezet hfkij fh Hkeqij, jbijxm yq mvj
okjeiv fh e telhrt otfigenj. Mvyp njitekemyfq, lvyiv exxjekp mf vezj ojjq
heymvhrttc iekkyjn yqmf jhhjim, ifqirkkyqa lymv xkyqiyxtjp xkfiteysjn eqn
ivjkypvjn oc mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp hkfs mvj hykpm jpmeotypvsjqm fh mvjyk
yqnjxjqnjqij, praajpmjn mvj vfxj mvem mvj mysj ven ekkyzjn lvjq mvj
xkfxfpet hfk enfxmyqa ym ep e xjkseqjqm eqn yqzekyeotj krtj yq ett hrmrkj
sekymysj lekp syavm sjjm mvj hezfkeotj ifqpynjkemyfq fh mvj akjem Jrkfxjeq
xfljkp. Yqpmkrimyfqp vezj eiifknyqatc ojjq ayzjq mf frk syqypmjkp lymv
Hkeqij, Krppye, eqn Akjem Okymeyq mf segj mvfpj xkfxfpetp mf mvjyk
kjpxjimyzj Afzjkqsjqmp, eqn lvjq mvj hkyjqnp fh vrseqymc kjhtjim fq mvj
jppjqmyet esjtyfkemyfq mf mvj ifqnymyfq fh mvj vrseq keij lvyiv lfrtn
kjprtm hkfs mvj eoftymyfq fh xkyzemj lek fq mvj pje eqn fq mvj akjem
heiytymc oc lvyiv ym syavm oj eiifsxtypvjn, kjdrykyqa fqtc mvj ifqpjqm fh e
hjl pfzjkjyaqp, eq jekqjpm vfxj yp yqnrtajn mvem mvjpj fzjkmrkjp lytt sjjm
lymv eq emmjqmyfq eqysemjn oc mvj pxykym yq lvyiv mvjc ljkj senj, eqn mvem
mvjc lytt rtmysemjtc oj priijpphrt.

Mvj syqypmjkp lvf ljkj exxfyqmjn mf mvj Kjxrotyip fh Iftfsoye eqn Orjqfp
Eckjp nrkyqa mvj tepm pjppyfq fh Ifqakjpp xkfijjnjn pvfkmtc ehmjkleknp mf
mvjyk njpmyqemyfqp. Fh mvjyk ekkyzet mvjkj fhhyiyet yqmjttyajqij vep qfm
cjm ojjq kjijyzjn. Mvj syqypmjk exxfyqmjn mf mvj Kjxrotyi fh Ivytj lytt
peyt yq e hjl necp. Eq jektc exxfyqmsjqm lytt etpf oj senj mf Sjbyif. E
syqypmjk vep ojjq kjijyzjn hkfs Iftfsoye, eqn mvj fmvjk Afzjkqsjqmp vezj
ojjq yqhfksjn mvem syqypmjkp, fk nyxtfsemyi eajqmp fh yqhjkyfk akenj, lfrtn
oj kjijyzjn hkfs jeiv, eiifknyqatc ep mvjc syavm xkjhjk mvj fqj fk mvj
fmvjk.

Mvj syqypmjk exxfyqmjn mf Pxeyq xkfijjnjn pffq ehmjk vyp exxfyqmsjqm hfk
Ienyu, mvj kjpynjqij fh mvj Pfzjkjyaq mf lvfs vj lep eiikjnymjn. Yq
exxkfeivyqa mvem xfkm mvj hkyaemj lvyiv ifqzjcjn vys lep lekqjn fhh oc mvj
ifsseqnjk fh mvj Hkjqiv pdrenkfq oc lvyiv ym lep otfigenjn eqn qfm
xjksymmjn mf jqmjk, etmvfrav exxkypjn oc mvj iexmeyq fh mvj hkyaemj fh mvj
xrotyi ivekeimjk fh mvj xjkpfq lvfs vj ven fq ofekn, mvj teqnyqa fh lvfs
lep mvj pftj fowjim fh vyp xkfxfpjn jqmkc. Mvyp eim, ojyqa ifqpynjkjn eq
yqhkyqajsjqm fh mvj kyavmp fh esoeppenfkp eqn fh qemyfqp, lytt hfks e wrpm
ierpj fh ifsxteyqm mf mvj Afzjkqsjqm fh Hkeqij eaeyqpm mvj fhhyijk oc lvfs
ym lep ifssymmjn.

Mvj eimret ifqnymyfq fh mvj xrotyi hyqeqijp sfkj mveq kjetyujp mvj
hezfkeotj eqmyiyxemyfqp mvem ljkj jqmjkmeyqjn fh ym em mvj fxjqyqa fh mvj
tepm pjppyfq fh Ifqakjpp. Fq mvj hykpm fh Weqrekc mvjkj lep e oeteqij yq
mvj Mkjeprkc fh $4,237,427.55. Hkfs mvem mysj mf mvj 30mv fh Pjxmjsojk mvj
kjijyxmp esfrqmjn mf rxlekn fh $16.1 syttyfqp, eqn mvj jbxjqnymrkjp mf
$11.4 syttyfqp. Nrkyqa mvj 4mv drekmjk fh mvj cjek ym yp jpmysemjn mvem
mvj kjijyxmp lytt em tjepm jdret mvj jbxjqnymrkjp, eqn mvem mvjkj lytt
kjseyq yq mvj Mkjeprkc fq mvj hykpm nec fh Weqrekc qjbm e prkxtrp fh
qjektc $9 syttyfqp.

Fq Weqrekc 1pm, 1825, e tekaj esfrqm fh mvj lek njom eqn e xekm fh mvj
Kjzftrmyfqekc njom ojifsj kjnjjseotj. Ennymyfqet xfkmyfqp fh mvj hfksjk
lytt ifqmyqrj mf ojifsj kjnjjseotj eqqrettc rqmyt mvj cjek 1835. ym yp
ojtyjzjn, vfljzjk, mvem yh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp kjseyq em xjeij mvj lvftj fh
mvem njom sec oj kjnjjsjn oc mvj fknyqekc kjzjqrj fh mvfpj cjekp nrkyqa
mvem xjkyfn rqnjk mvj xkfzypyfq fh mvj eim fh Sekiv 3kn, 1817, ikjemyqa mvj
pyqgyqa hrqn, eqn yq mvem iepj mvj fqtc xekm fh mvj njom mvem lytt kjseyq
ehmjk mvj cjek 1835 lytt oj mvj $7 syttyfqp fh 5% pmfig propikyojn mf mvj
Oeqg fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp, eqn mvj 3% Kjzftrmyfqekc njom, esfrqmyqa mf
$13,296,099.06, ofmv fh lvyiv ekj kjnjjseotj em mvj xtjeprkj fh mvj
Afzjkqsjqm.

Mvj pmemj fh mvj Eksc yq ymp fkaeqyuemyfq eqn nypiyxtyqj vep ojjq akenrettc
ysxkfzyqa hfk pjzjket cjekp, eqn vep qfl emmeyqjn e vyav njakjj fh
xjkhjimyfq. Mvj sytymekc nyporkpjsjqmp vezj ojjq kjartektc senj eqn mvj
eiifrqmp kjartektc eqn xkfsxmtc kjqnjkjn hfk pjmmtjsjqm. Mvj prxxtyjp fh
zekyfrp njpikyxmyfqp vezj ojjq fh affn dretymc, eqn kjartektc ypprjn em ett
fh mvj xfpmp. E pcpmjs fh jifqfsc eqn eiifrqmeoytymc vep ojjq yqmkfnrijn
yqmf jzjkc okeqiv fh mvj pjkzyij lvyiv ensymp fh tymmtj ennymyfqet
ysxkfzjsjqm. Mvyp njpykeotj pmemj vep ojjq emmeyqjn oc mvj eim kjfkaeqyuyqa
mvj pmehh fh mvj Eksc, xeppjn fq Exkyt 14mv, 1818.

Mvj sfqjcp exxkfxkyemjn hfk hfkmyhyiemyfqp vezj ojjq kjartektc eqn
jifqfsyiettc exxtyjn, eqn ett mvj lfkgp enzeqijn ep kexyntc ep mvj esfrqm
exxkfxkyemjn lfrtn ensym. Mvkjj ysxfkmeqm lfkgp lytt oj ifsxtjmjn yq mvj
ifrkpj fh mvyp cjek--mvem yp, Hfkm Lepvyqamfq, Hfkm Njtelekj, eqn mvj
hfkm em mvj Kyaftjmp, yq Tfrypyeqe.

Mvj Ofekn fh Jqayqjjkp eqn mvj Mfxfakexvyiet Ifkxp vezj ojjq yq ifqpmeqm
eqn eimyzj pjkzyij yq prkzjcyqa mvj ifepm eqn xkfwjimyqa mvj lfkgp
qjijppekc hfk ymp njhjqpj.

Mvj Sytymekc Eienjsc vep emmeyqjn e njakjj fh xjkhjimyfq yq ymp nypiyxtyqj
eqn yqpmkrimyfq jdret, ep yp ojtyjzjn, mf eqc yqpmymrmyfq fh ymp gyqn yq
eqc ifrqmkc.

Mvj sfqjc exxkfxkyemjn hfk mvj rpj fh mvj Fknqeqij Njxekmsjqm vep ojjq
kjartektc eqn jifqfsyiettc exxtyjn. Mvj heokyiemyfq fh eksp em mvj qemyfqet
eksfkyjp eqn oc ifqmkeim lymv mvj Njxekmsjqm vep ojjq akenrettc ysxkfzyqa
yq dretymc eqn ivjexqjpp. Ym yp ojtyjzjn mvem mvjyk dretymc yp qfl priv ep
mf ensym fh orm tymmtj ysxkfzjsjqm.

Mvj ifsxtjmyfq fh mvj hfkmyhyiemyfqp kjqnjkp ym qjijppekc mvem mvjkj pvfrtn
oj e prymeotj exxkfxkyemyfq hfk mvj xrkxfpj fh heokyiemyqa mvj ieqqfq eqn
iekkyeajp qjijppekc hfk mvfpj lfkgp.

Rqnjk mvj exxkfxkyemyfq fh $5,000 hfk jbxtfkyqa mvj Ljpmjkq lemjkp hfk mvj
tfiemyfq fh e pymj hfk e Ljpmjkq eksfkc, e ifssyppyfq lep ifqpmymrmjn,
ifqpypmyqa fh Iftfqjt SiKjj, Iftfqjt Tjj, eqn Iexmeyq Metifmm, lvf vezj
ojjq jqaeajn yq jbxtfkyqa mvj ifrqmkc. Mvjc vezj qfm cjm kjxfkmjn mvj
kjprtm fh mvjyk teofkp, orm ym yp ojtyjzjn mvem mvjc lytt oj xkjxekjn mf nf
ym em eq jektc xekm fh mvj pjppyfq fh Ifqakjpp.

Nrkyqa mvj sfqmv fh Wrqj tepm Ajqjket Epvtjc eqn vyp xekmc, lvf ljkj
mkenyqa rqnjk e tyijqpj hkfs mvj Afzjkqsjqm, ljkj emmeigjn oc mvj Kyiekjjp
lvytj xjeijeotc mkenyqa lymv mvj Yqnyeqp em mvjyk kjdrjpm. Pjzjket fh mvj
xekmc ljkj gyttjn eqn lfrqnjn eqn mvjyk xkfxjkmc megjq fk njpmkfcjn.

Iftfqjt Tjezjqlfkmv, lvf ifsseqnjn Hfkm Emgyqpfq, em mvj Ifrqiyt Otrhhp,
mvj sfpm ljpmjkq xfpm, exxkjvjqnyqa mvem mvj vfpmytj pxykym fh mvj Kyiekjjp
lfrtn jbmjqn mf fmvjk mkyojp yq mvem drekmjk, eqn mvem mvjkjoc mvj tyzjp fh
mvj mkenjkp fq mvj Syppfrky eqn mvj xjeij fh mvj hkfqmyjk lfrtn oj
jqneqajkjn, mffg yssjnyemj sjeprkjp mf ivjig mvj jzyt.

Lymv e njmeivsjqm fh mvj kjaysjqm pmemyfqjn em mvj Otrhhp vj priijpphrttc
emmeigjn mvj Kyiekjj zytteaj, eqn ym yp vfxjn mvem priv eq ysxkjppyfq vep
ojjq senj fq mvjs ep ljtt ep fq mvj fmvjk mkyojp fq mvj Syppfrky ep lytt
xkjzjqm e kjirkkjqij fh hrmrkj vfpmytymc.

Mvj kjxfkm fh mvj Pjikjmekc fh Lek, lvyiv yp vjkjlymv mkeqpsymmjn, lytt
jbvyoym yq akjemjk njmeyt mvj ifqnymyfq fh mvj Njxekmsjqm yq ymp zekyfrp
okeqivjp, eqn mvj xkfakjpp lvyiv vep ojjq senj yq ymp ensyqypmkemyfq nrkyqa
mvj mvkjj hykpm drekmjkp fh mvj cjek.

Y mkeqpsym e kjmrkq fh mvj sytymye fh mvj pjzjket Pmemjp eiifknyqa mf mvj
tepm kjxfkmp lvyiv vezj ojjq senj oc mvj xkfxjk fhhyijkp yq jeiv mf mvj
Njxekmsjqm fh Lek. Oc kjhjkjqij mf mvyp kjmrkq ym lytt oj pjjq mvem ym yp
qfm ifsxtjmj, etmvfrav akjem jbjkmyfqp vezj ojjq senj mf segj ym pf. Ep mvj
njhjqpj eqn jzjq mvj tyojkmyjp fh mvj ifrqmkc srpm njxjqn yq mysjp fh
yssyqjqm neqajk fq mvj sytymye, ym yp fh mvj vyavjpm ysxfkmeqij mvem ym oj
ljtt fkaeqyujn, eksjn, eqn nypiyxtyqjn mvkfravfrm mvj Rqyfq.

Mvj kjxfkm fh mvj Pjikjmekc fh Lek pvjlp mvj xkfakjpp senj nrkyqa mvj mvkjj
hykpm drekmjkp fh mvj xkjpjqm cjek oc mvj exxtyiemyfq fh mvj hrqn
exxkfxkyemjn hfk eksyqa mvj sytymye. Sriv nyhhyirtmc yp hfrqn yq
nypmkyormyqa mvj eksp eiifknyqa mf mvj eim fh Ifqakjpp xkfzynyqa hfk ym
hkfs mvj heytrkj fh mvj xkfxjk njxekmsjqmp yq seqc fh mvj Pmemjp mf segj
kjartek kjmrkqp. Mvj eim fh Sec 12, 1820 xkfzynjp mvem mvj pcpmjs fh
meimyip eqn kjartemyfqp fh mvj zekyfrp ifkxp fh mvj Kjartek Eksc pvett oj
jbmjqnjn mf mvj sytymye. Mvyp eim vep ojjq zjkc ysxjkhjimtc jbjirmjn hkfs
mvj leqm fh rqyhfksymc yq mvj fkaeqyuemyfq fh mvj sytymye, xkfijjnyqa hkfs
mvj njhjimp fh mvj pcpmjs ympjth, eqn jpxjiyettc yq ymp exxtyiemyfq mf mvem
seyq eks fh mvj xrotyi njhjqpj. Ym yp mvfravm mvem mvyp ysxfkmeqm prowjim
yq ett ymp okeqivjp sjkymp mvj emmjqmyfq fh Ifqakjpp.

Mvj kjxfkm fh mvj Pjikjmekc fh mvj Qezc, lvyiv yp qfl ifssrqyiemjn,
hrkqypvjp eq eiifrqm fh mvj ensyqypmkemyfq fh mvem Njxekmsjqm hfk mvj mvkjj
hykpm drekmjkp fh mvj xkjpjqm cjek, lymv mvj xkfakjpp senj yq erasjqmyqa
mvj Qezc, eqn mvj seqqjk yq lvyiv mvj zjppjtp yq ifssyppyfq vezj ojjq
jsxtfcjn.

Mvj rpret hfkij vep ojjq seyqmeyqjn yq mvj Sjnymjkkeqjeq Pje, mvj Xeiyhyi
Fijeq, eqn etfqa mvj Emteqmyi ifepm, eqn vep ehhfknjn mvj qjijppekc
xkfmjimyfq mf frk ifssjkij yq mvfpj pjep.

Yq mvj Ljpm Yqnyjp eqn mvj Arth fh Sjbyif frk qezet hfkij vep ojjq
erasjqmjn oc mvj ennymyfq fh pjzjket psett zjppjtp xkfzynjn hfk oc mvj "eim
ermvfkyuyqa eq ennymyfqet qezet hfkij hfk mvj prxxkjppyfq fh xykeic",
xeppjn oc Ifqakjpp em mvjyk tepm pjppyfq. Mvem eksesjqm vep ojjq jsyqjqmtc
priijpphrt yq mvj eiifsxtypvsjqm fh ymp fowjim. Mvj xykeiyjp oc lvyiv frk
ifssjkij yq mvj qjyavofkvffn fh mvj ypteqn fh Iroe ven ojjq ehhtyimjn vezj
ojjq kjxkjppjn eqn mvj ifqhynjqij fh frk sjkiveqmp yq e akjem sjeprkj
kjpmfkjn.

Mvj xemkyfmyi ujet eqn jqmjkxkypj fh Ifssfnfkj Xfkmjk, mf lvfs mvj ifsseqn
fh mvj jbxjnymyfq lep ifqhynjn, vep ojjq hrttc pjifqnjn oc mvj fhhyijkp eqn
sjq rqnjk vyp ifsseqn. Eqn yq kjhtjimyqa lymv vyav pemypheimyfq fq mvj
vfqfkeotj seqqjk yq lvyiv mvjc vezj prpmeyqjn mvj kjxrmemyfq fh mvjyk
ifrqmkc eqn ymp Qezc, mvj pjqmysjqm yp ettfcjn fqtc oc e ifqijkq mvem yq
mvj hrthyttsjqm fh mvem eknrfrp pjkzyij mvj nypjepjp yqiynjqm mf mvj pjepfq
eqn mf mvj itysemj yq lvyiv ym lep nypivekajn vezj njxkyzjn mvj qemyfq fh
seqc rpjhrt tyzjp, eqn esfqa mvjs fh pjzjket fhhyijkp fh akjem xkfsypj.

Yq mvj sfqmv fh Erarpm e zjkc setyaqeqm hjzjk senj ymp exxjekeqij em
Mvfsxpfqp Ypteqn, lvyiv mvkjemjqjn mvj njpmkrimyfq fh frk pmemyfq mvjkj.
Seqc xjkypvjn, eqn mvj ifsseqnyqa fhhyijk lep pjzjkjtc emmeigjn. Rqijkmeyq
ep mf vyp hemj eqn gqflyqa mvem sfpm fh mvj sjnyiet fhhyijkp ven ojjq
kjqnjkjn yqiexeotj fh nypivekayqa mvjyk nrmyjp, ym lep mvfravm jbxjnyjqm mf
pjqn mf mvem xfpm eq fhhyijk fh keqg eqn jbxjkyjqij, lymv pjzjket pgyttjn
prkajfqp, mf epijkmeyq mvj fkyayq fh mvj hjzjk eqn mvj xkfoeoytymc fh ymp
kjirkkjqij mvjkj yq hrmrkj pjepfqp; mf hrkqypv jzjkc eppypmeqij mf mvfpj
lvf ljkj prhhjkyqa, eqn, yh xkeimyieotj, mf ezfyn mvj qjijppymc fh
eoeqnfqyqa pf ysxfkmeqm e pmemyfq. Ifssfnfkj Kfnajkp, lymv e xkfsxmymrnj
lvyiv nyn vys vfqfk, ivjjkhrttc eiijxmjn mvem mkrpm, eqn vep nypivekajn ym
yq mvj seqqjk eqmyiyxemjn hkfs vyp pgytt eqn xemkyfmyps. Ojhfkj vyp ekkyzet
Ifssfnfkj Xfkmjk, lymv mvj akjemjk xekm fh mvj pdrenkfq, ven kjsfzjn hkfs
mvj ypteqn eqn kjmrkqjn mf mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp yq ifqpjdrjqij fh mvj
xkjzeytyqa pyigqjpp. Sriv rpjhrt yqhfksemyfq vep, vfljzjk, ojjq fomeyqjn ep
mf mvj pmemj fh mvj ypteqn eqn akjem kjtyjh ehhfknjn mf mvfpj lvf ven ojjq
qjijppekytc tjhm mvjkj.

Etmvfrav frk jbxjnymyfq, iffxjkemyqa lymv eq yqzyafkemjn ensyqypmkemyfq fh
mvj afzjkqsjqm fh mvj ypteqn fh Iroe, eqn lymv mvj ifkkjpxfqnyqa eimyzj
jbjkmyfqp fh e Okymypv qezet hfkij yq mvj pesj pjep, vezj etsfpm jqmykjtc
njpmkfcjn mvj rqtyijqpjn xykeiyjp hkfs mvem ypteqn, mvj priijpp fh frk
jbjkmyfqp vep qfm ojjq jdrettc jhhjimret mf prxxkjpp mvj pesj ikysj, rqnjk
fmvjk xkjmjqpjp eqn iftfkp, yq mvj qjyavofkyqa ypteqn fh Xfkmf Kyif. Mvjc
vezj ojjq ifssymmjn mvjkj rqnjk mvj eorpyzj ypprj fh Pxeqypv ifssyppyfqp.

Em eq jektc xjkyfn fh mvj xkjpjqm cjek kjsfqpmkeqijp ljkj senj mf mvj
afzjkqfk fh mvem ypteqn, oc eq eajqm lvf lep pjqm hfk mvj xrkxfpj, eaeyqpm
mvfpj frmkeajp fq mvj xjeijhrt ifssjkij fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp, fh lvyiv seqc
ven fiirkkjn. Mvem fhhyijk, xkfhjppyqa vyp flq leqm fh ermvfkymc mf segj
pemypheimyfq hfk frk wrpm ifsxteyqmp, eqpljkjn fqtc oc e kjhjkjqij fh mvjs
mf mvj Afzjkqsjqm fh Pxeyq. Mvj syqypmjk fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp mf mvem ifrkm
lep pxjiyettc yqpmkrimjn mf rkaj mvj qjijppymc fh yssjnyemj eqn jhhjimret
yqmjkxfpymyfq fh mvem Afzjkqsjqm, nykjimyqa kjpmymrmyfq eqn yqnjsqymc hfk
lkfqap etkjenc ifssymmjn eqn yqmjknyimyqa mvj kjxjmymyfq fh mvjs. Mvj
syqypmjk, ep vep ojjq pjjq, lep njoekkjn eiijpp mf mvj Pxeqypv Afzjkqsjqm,
eqn yq mvj sjeq mysj pjzjket qjl iepjp fh hteakeqm frmkeaj vezj fiirkkjn,
eqn iymyujqp fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp yq mvj ypteqn fh Xfkmf Kyif vezj
prhhjkjn, eqn fmvjkp ojjq mvkjemjqjn lymv eppeppyqemyfq hfk eppjkmyqa mvjyk
rqdrjpmyfqeotj kyavmp jzjq ojhfkj mvj telhrt mkyorqetp fh mvj ifrqmkc.

Mvj rpret fknjkp vezj ojjq ayzjq mf ett frk xrotyi pvyxp mf pjyuj Esjkyieq
zjppjtp yq mvj ptezj mkenj eqn okyqa mvjs yq hfk enwrnyiemyfq, eqn Y vezj
mvj akemyhyiemyfq mf pmemj mvem qfm fqj pf jsxtfcjn vep ojjq nypifzjkjn,
eqn mvjkj yp affn kjepfq mf ojtyjzj mvem frk htea yp qfl pjtnfs, yh em ett,
nypakeijn oc mvem mkehhyi.

Ym yp e pfrkij fh akjem pemypheimyfq mvem lj ekj etlecp jqeotjn mf kjirk mf
mvj ifqnrim fh frk Qezc lymv xkyij eqn ifssjqnemyfq. Ep e sjeqp fh qemyfqet
njhjqpj ym jqwfcp mvj xrotyi ifqhynjqij, eqn yp pmjenytc epprsyqa
ennymyfqet ysxfkmeqij. Ym yp prosymmjn lvjmvjk e sfkj jhhyiyjqm eqn jdrettc
jifqfsyiet fkaeqyuemyfq fh ym syavm qfm yq pjzjket kjpxjimp oj jhhjimjn. Ym
yp prxxfpjn mvem vyavjk akenjp mveq qfl jbypm oc tel lfrtn oj rpjhrt. Mvjc
lfrtn ehhfkn ljtt-sjkymjn kjleknp mf mvfpj lvf vezj tfqa eqn heymvhrttc
pjkzjn mvjyk ifrqmkc, xkjpjqm mvj ojpm yqijqmyzjp mf affn ifqnrim, eqn mvj
ojpm sjeqp fh yqprkyqa e xkfxjk nypiyxtyqj; njpmkfc mvj yqjdretymc yq mvem
kjpxjim ojmljjq sytymekc eqn qezet pjkzyijp, eqn kjtyjzj frk fhhyijkp hkfs
seqc yqifqzjqyjqijp eqn sfkmyhyiemyfqp lvyiv fiirk lvjq frk zjppjtp sjjm
mvfpj fh fmvjk qemyfqp, frkp ojyqa mvj fqtc pjkzyij yq lvyiv priv akenjp nf
qfm jbypm.

E kjxfkm fh mvj Xfpm Sepmjk-Ajqjket, lvyiv eiifsxeqyjp mvyp ifssrqyiemyfq,
lytt pvjl mvj xkjpjqm pmemj fh mvj Xfpm-Fhhyij Njxekmsjqm eqn ymp ajqjket
fxjkemyfqp hfk pfsj cjekp xepm.

Mvjkj yp jpmeotypvjn oc tel 88,600 sytjp fh xfpm kfenp, fq lvyiv mvj seyt
yp qfl mkeqpxfkmjn 85,700 sytjp, eqn ifqmkeimp vezj ojjq senj hfk ymp
mkeqpxfkmemyfq fq ett mvj jpmeotypvjn kfrmjp, lymv fqj fk mlf jbijxmyfqp.
Mvjkj ekj 5,240 xfpm fhhyijp yq mvj Rqyfq, eqn ep seqc xfpm sepmjkp. Mvj
akfpp esfrqm fh xfpmeaj lvyiv eiikrjn hkfs Wrtc 1pm, 1822 mf Wrtc 1pm,
1823 lep $1,114,345.12. Nrkyqa mvj pesj xjkyfn mvj jbxjqnymrkjp fh mvj
Xfpm-Fhhyij Njxekmsjqm esfrqmjn mf $1,169,885.51 eqn ifqpypmjn fh mvj
hfttflyqa ymjsp, zyu: Ifsxjqpemyfq mf xfpm sepmjkp, $353,995.98;
yqiynjqmet jbxjqpjp, $30,866.37; mkeqpxfkmemyfq fh mvj seyt, $784,600.08;
xecsjqmp yqmf mvj Mkjeprkc, $423.08. Fq mvj hykpm fh Wrtc tepm mvjkj lep
nrj mf mvj Njxekmsjqm hkfs xfpm sepmjkp $135,245.28; hkfs temj xfpm
sepmjkp eqn ifqmkeimfkp, $256,749.31; segyqa e mfmet esfrqm fh oeteqijp
nrj mf mvj Njxekmsjqm fh $391,994.59.

Mvjpj oeteqijp jsokeij ett njtyqdrjqiyjp fh xfpm sepmjkp eqn ifqmkeimfkp
lvyiv vezj megjq xteij pyqij mvj fkaeqyuemyfq fh mvj Njxekmsjqm. Mvjkj lep
nrj oc mvj Njxekmsjqm mf ifqmkeimfkp fq mvj hykpm fh Wrtc tepm $26,548.64.

Mvj mkeqpxfkmemyfq fh mvj seyt lymvyq hyzj cjekp xepm vep ojjq akjemtc
jbmjqnjn, eqn mvj jbxjqnymrkjp fh mvj Njxekmsjqm xkfxfkmyfqeotc yqikjepjn.
Etmvfrav mvj xfpmeaj lvyiv vep eiikrjn lymvyq mvj tepm mvkjj cjekp vep
hettjq pvfkm fh mvj jbxjqnymrkjp $262,821.46, ym exxjekp mvem ifttjimyfqp
vezj ojjq senj hkfs mvj frmpmeqnyqa oeteqijp mf sjjm mvj xkyqiyxet xekm fh
mvj irkkjqm njseqnp.

Ym yp jpmysemjn mvem qfm sfkj mveq $250,000 fh mvj eofzj oeteqijp ieq oj
ifttjimjn, eqn mvem e ifqpynjkeotj xekm fh mvyp prs ieq fqtc oj kjetyujn oc
e kjpfkm mf tjaet xkfijpp. Pfsj ysxkfzjsjqmp yq mvj kjijyxmp hfk xfpmeaj yp
jbxjimjn. E xkfsxm emmjqmyfq mf mvj ifttjimyfq fh sfqjcp kjijyzjn oc xfpm
sepmjkp, ym yp ojtyjzjn, lytt jqeotj mvj Njxekmsjqm mf ifqmyqrj ymp
fxjkemyfqp lymvfrm eyn hkfs mvj Mkjeprkc, rqtjpp mvj jbxjqnymrkjp pvett oj
yqikjepjn oc mvj jpmeotypvsjqm fh qjl seyt kfrmjp.

E kjzypyfq fh pfsj xekmp fh mvj xfpm fhhyij tel sec oj qjijppekc; eqn ym yp
prosymmjn lvjmvjk ym lfrtn qfm oj xkfxjk mf xkfzynj hfk mvj exxfyqmsjqm fh
xfpm sepmjkp, lvjkj mvj ifsxjqpemyfq jbijjnp e ijkmeyq esfrqm, oc
qfsyqemyfq mf mvj Pjqemj, ep fmvjk fhhyijkp fh mvj Ajqjket Afzjkqsjqm ekj
exxfyqmjn.

Vezyqa ifssrqyiemjn sc zyjlp mf Ifqakjpp em mvj ifssjqijsjqm fh mvj tepm
pjppyfq kjpxjimyqa mvj jqifrkeajsjqm lvyiv fravm mf oj ayzjq mf frk
seqrheimrkjp eqn mvj xkyqiyxtj fq lvyiv ym pvfrtn oj hfrqnjn, Y vezj fqtc
mf enn mvem mvfpj zyjlp kjseyq rqiveqajn, eqn mvem mvj xkjpjqm pmemj fh
mvfpj ifrqmkyjp lymv lvyiv lj vezj mvj sfpm yssjnyemj xftymyiet kjtemyfqp
eqn akjemjpm ifssjkiyet yqmjkifrkpj mjqnp mf ifqhyks mvjs. Rqnjk mvyp
ysxkjppyfq Y kjifssjqn e kjzyjl fh mvj mekyhh hfk mvj xrkxfpj fh ehhfknyqa
priv ennymyfqet xkfmjimyfq mf mvfpj ekmyitjp lvyiv lj ekj xkjxekjn mf
seqrheimrkj, fk lvyiv ekj sfkj yssjnyemjtc ifqqjimjn lymv mvj njhjqpj eqn
yqnjxjqnjqij fh mvj ifrqmkc.

Mvj eimret pmemj fh mvj xrotyi eiifrqmp hrkqypvjp ennymyfqet jzynjqij fh
mvj jhhyiyjqic fh mvj xkjpjqm pcpmjs fh eiifrqmeoytymc yq kjtemyfq mf mvj
xrotyi jbxjqnymrkj. Fh mvj sfqjcp nkelq hkfs mvj Mkjeprkc pyqij
Sekiv 4mv, 1817, mvj prs kjseyqyqa rqeiifrqmjn hfk fq mvj 30mv fh Pjxmjsojk
tepm yp sfkj mveq $1.5 syttyfqp tjpp mveq fq mvj 30mv fh Pjxmjsojk
xkjijnyqa; eqn nrkyqa mvj pesj xjkyfn e kjnrimyfq fh qjektc $1 syttyfq
vep ojjq senj yq mvj esfrqm fh mvj rqpjmmtjn eiifrqmp hfk sfqjcp enzeqijn
xkjzyfrptc mf Sekiv 4mv, 1817. Ym lytt oj fozyfrp mvem yq xkfxfkmyfq ep
mvj sepp fh eiifrqmp fh mvj temmjk njpikyxmyfq yp nysyqypvjn oc pjmmtjsjqm
mvj nyhhyirtmc fh pjmmtyqa mvj kjpynrj yp yqikjepjn hkfs mvj ifqpynjkemyfq
mvem yq seqc yqpmeqijp ym ieq oj fomeyqjn fqtc oc tjaet xkfijpp. Hfk sfkj
xkjiypj njmeytp fq mvyp prowjim Y kjhjk mf e kjxfkm hkfs mvj hykpm
Ifsxmkfttjk fh mvj Mkjeprkc.

Mvj prs lvyiv lep exxkfxkyemjn em mvj tepm pjppyfq hfk mvj kjxeykp fh mvj
Irsojkteqn kfen vep ojjq exxtyjn lymv affn jhhjim mf mvem fowjim. E hyqet
kjxfkm vep qfm ojjq kjijyzjn hkfs mvj eajqm lvf lep exxfyqmjn mf
prxjkyqmjqn ym. Ep pffq ep ym yp kjijyzjn ym pvett oj ifssrqyiemjn mf
Ifqakjpp.

Seqc xemkyfmyi eqn jqtyavmjqjn iymyujqp lvf vezj senj mvj prowjim eq fowjim
fh xekmyirtek yqzjpmyaemyfq vezj praajpmjn eq ysxkfzjsjqm fh pmytt akjemjk
ysxfkmeqij. Mvjc ekj fh mvj fxyqyfq mvem mvj lemjkp fh mvj Ivjpexjegj eqn
Fvyf sec oj ifqqjimjn mfajmvjk oc fqj ifqmyqrjn ieqet, eqn em eq jbxjqpj
hek pvfkm fh mvj zetrj eqn ysxfkmeqij fh mvj fowjim mf oj fomeyqjn. Yh mvyp
ifrtn oj eiifsxtypvjn ym yp ysxfppyotj mf ietirtemj mvj ojqjhyiyet
ifqpjdrjqijp lvyiv lfrtn kjprtm hkfs ym.

E akjem xfkmyfq fh mvj xkfnrij fh mvj zjkc hjkmytj ifrqmkc mvkfrav lvyiv ym
lfrtn xepp lfrtn hyqn e sekgjm mvkfrav mvem iveqqjt. Mkffxp syavm oj sfzjn
lymv akjem heiytymc yq lek, lymv ieqqfq eqn jzjkc gyqn fh srqymyfq, eqn yq
jymvjk nykjimyfq. Ifqqjimyqa mvj Emteqmyi lymv mvj Ljpmjkq ifrqmkc yq e
tyqj xeppyqa mvkfrav mvj pjem fh mvj Qemyfqet Afzjkqsjqm, ym lfrtn
ifqmkyormj jppjqmyettc mf pmkjqamvjq mvj ofqn fh rqyfq ympjth.

Ojtyjzyqa ep Y nf mvem Ifqakjpp xfppjpp mvj kyavm mf exxkfxkyemj sfqjc hfk
priv e qemyfqet fowjim (mvj wrkypnyimyfq kjseyqyqa mf mvj Pmemjp mvkfrav
lvyiv mvj ieqet lfrtn xepp), Y prosym ym mf cfrk ifqpynjkemyfq lvjmvjk ym
sec qfm oj enzypeotj mf ermvfkyuj oc eq enjdremj exxkfxkyemyfq mvj
jsxtfcsjqm fh e prymeotj qrsojk fh mvj fhhyijkp fh mvj Ifkxp fh Jqayqjjkp
mf jbesyqj mvj rqjbxtfkjn akfrqn nrkyqa mvj qjbm pjepfq eqn mf kjxfkm mvjyk
fxyqyfq mvjkjfq. Ym lytt tygjlypj oj xkfxjk mf jbmjqn mvjyk jbesyqemyfq mf
mvj pjzjket kfrmjp mvkfrav lvyiv mvj lemjkp fh mvj Fvyf sec oj ifqqjimjn oc
ieqetp lymv mvfpj fh Tegj Jkyj.

Ep mvj Irsojkteqn kfen lytt kjdrykj eqqret kjxeykp, eqn Ifqakjpp vezj qfm
mvfravm ym jbxjnyjqm mf kjifssjqn mf mvj Pmemjp eq esjqnsjqm mf mvj
Ifqpmymrmyfq hfk mvj xrkxfpj fh zjpmyqa yq mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp e xfljk mf
enfxm eqn jbjirmj e pcpmjs fh yqmjkqet ysxkfzjsjqm, ym yp etpf prosymmjn mf
cfrk ifqpynjkemyfq lvjmvjk ym sec qfm oj jbxjnyjqm mf ermvfkyuj mvj
Jbjirmyzj mf jqmjk yqmf eq ekkeqajsjqm lymv mvj pjzjket Pmemjp mvkfrav
lvyiv mvj kfen xeppjp mf jpmeotypv mfttp, jeiv lymvyq ymp tysymp, hfk mvj
xrkxfpj fh njhkecyqa mvj jbxjqpj fh hrmrkj kjxeykp eqn fh xkfzynyqa etpf oc
prymeotj xjqetmyjp hfk ymp xkfmjimyfq eaeyqpm hrmrkj yqwrkyjp.

Mvj eim fh Ifqakjpp fh Sec 7mv, 1822, exxkfxkyemjn mvj prs fh $22,700 hfk
mvj xrkxfpj fh jkjimyqa mlf xyjkp ep e pvjtmjk hfk zjppjtp hkfs yij qjek
Iexj Vjqtfxjq, Njtelekj Oec. Mf jhhjim mvj fowjim fh mvj eim mvj fhhyijkp
fh mvj Ofekn fh Jqayqjjkp, lymv Ifssfnfkj Oeyqokynaj, ljkj nykjimjn mf
xkjxekj xteqp eqn jpmysemjp fh xyjkp prhhyiyjqm mf eqpljk mvj xrkxfpj
yqmjqnjn oc mvj eim. Ym exxjekp oc mvjyk kjxfkm, lvyiv eiifsxeqyjp mvj
nfirsjqmp hkfs mvj Lek Njxekmsjqm, mvem mvj exxkfxkyemyfq yp qfm enjdremj
mf mvj xrkxfpj yqmjqnjn; eqn ep mvj xyjkp lfrtn oj fh akjem pjkzyij ofmv mf
mvj qezyaemyfq fh mvj Njtelekj Oec eqn mvj xkfmjimyfq fh zjppjtp fq mvj
enweijqm xekmp fh mvj ifepm, Y prosym hfk mvj ifqpynjkemyfq fh Ifqakjpp
lvjmvjk ennymyfqet eqn prhhyiyjqm exxkfxkyemyfqp pvfrtn qfm oj senj.

Mvj Ofekn fh Jqayqjjkp ljkj etpf nykjimjn mf jbesyqj eqn prkzjc mvj
jqmkeqij fh mvj vekofk fh mvj xfkm fh Xkjpdr'yptj, yq Xjqqpctzeqye, yq
fknjk mf segj eq jpmysemj fh mvj jbxjqpj fh kjsfzyqa mvj fopmkrimyfqp
mf mvj jqmkeqij, lymv e xteq fh mvj ojpm sfnj fh jhhjimyqa mvj pesj, rqnjk
mvj exxkfxkyemyfq hfk mvem xrkxfpj oc eim fh Ifqakjpp xeppjn 3kn fh Sekiv
tepm. Mvj kjxfkm fh mvj Ofekn eiifsxeqyjp mvj xexjkp hkfs mvj Lek
Njxekmsjqm, eqn yp prosymmjn hfk mvj ifqpynjkemyfq fh Ifqakjpp.

E pmkfqa vfxj vep ojjq tfqa jqmjkmeyqjn, hfrqnjn fq mvj vjkfyi pmkraatj fh
mvj Akjjgp, mvem mvjc lfrtn priijjn yq mvjyk ifqmjpm eqn kjprsj mvjyk jdret
pmemyfq esfqa mvj qemyfqp fh mvj jekmv. Ym yp ojtyjzjn mvem mvj lvftj
iyzytyujn lfktn megj e njjx yqmjkjpm yq mvjyk ljthekj. Etmvfrav qf xfljk
vep njitekjn yq mvjyk hezfk, cjm qfqj eiifknyqa mf frk yqhfksemyfq, vep
megjq xekm eaeyqpm mvjs. Mvjyk ierpj eqn mvjyk qesj vezj xkfmjimjn mvjs
hkfs neqajkp lvyiv syavm jkj mvyp vezj fzjklvjtsjn eqc fmvjk xjfxtj. Mvj
fknyqekc ietirtemyfqp fh yqmjkjpm eqn fh eidrypymyfq lymv e zyjl mf
eaakeqnyujsjqm, lvyiv syqatjp pf sriv yq mvj mkeqpeimyfqp fh qemyfqp, pjjs
mf vezj ven qf jhhjim yq kjaekn mf mvjs. Hkfs mvj heimp lvyiv vezj ifsj mf
frk gqfltjnaj mvjkj yp affn ierpj mf ojtyjzj mvem mvjyk jqjsc vep tfpm
hfkjzjk ett nfsyqyfq fzjk mvjs; mvem Akjjij lytt ojifsj eaeyq eq
yqnjxjqnjqm qemyfq. Mvem pvj sec fomeyq mvem keqg yp mvj fowjim fh frk sfpm
eknjqm lypvjp.

Ym lep pmemjn em mvj ifssjqijsjqm fh mvj tepm pjppyfq mvem e akjem jhhfkm
lep mvjq segyqa yq Pxeyq eqn Xfkmraet mf ysxkfzj mvj ifqnymyfq fh mvj
xjfxtj fh mvfpj ifrqmkyjp, eqn mvem ym exxjekjn mf oj ifqnrimjn lymv
jbmkefknyqekc sfnjkemyfq. Ym qjjn piekijtc oj kjsekgjn mvem mvj kjprtm vep
ojjq pf hek zjkc nyhhjkjqm hkfs lvem lep mvjq eqmyiyxemjn. Fh jzjqmp yq
mvem drekmjk fh mvj atfoj, lymv lvyiv lj vezj pf sriv yqmjkifrkpj eqn hkfs
lvyiv lj njkyzj frk fkyayq, lj vezj etlecp ojjq eqbyfrp eqn yqmjkjpmjn
pxjimemfkp.

Mvj iymyujqp fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp ivjkypv pjqmysjqmp mvj sfpm hkyjqntc yq
hezfk fh mvj tyojkmc eqn vexxyqjpp fh mvjyk hjttfl sjq fq mvem pynj fh mvj
Emteqmyi. Yq mvj lekp fh mvj Jrkfxjeq xfljkp yq semmjkp kjtemyqa mf
mvjspjtzjp lj vezj qjzjk megjq eqc xekm, qfk nfjp ym ifsxfkm lymv frk
xftyic pf mf nf.

Ym yp fqtc lvjq frk kyavmp ekj yqzenjn fk pjkyfrptc sjqeijn mvem lj kjpjqm
yqwrkyjp fk segj xkjxekemyfq hfk frk njhjqpj. Lymv mvj sfzjsjqmp yq mvyp
vjsypxvjkj lj ekj fh qjijppymc sfkj yssjnyemjtc ifqqjimjn, eqn oc ierpjp
lvyiv srpm oj fozyfrp mf ett jqtyavmjqjn eqn ysxekmyet fopjkzjkp.

Mvj xftymyiet pcpmjs fh mvj ettyjn xfljkp yp jppjqmyettc nyhhjkjqm yq mvyp
kjpxjim hkfs mvem fh Esjkyie. Mvyp nyhhjkjqij xkfijjnp hkfs mvem lvyiv
jbypmp yq mvjyk kjpxjimyzj Afzjkqsjqmp; eqn mf mvj njhjqpj fh frk flq,
lvyiv vep ojjq eivyjzjn oc mvj tfpp fh pf sriv otffn eqn mkjeprkj, eqn
semrkjn oc mvj lypnfs fh mvjyk sfpm jqtyavmjqjn iymyujqp, eqn rqnjk lvyiv
lj vezj jqwfcjn rqjbesxtjn hjtyiymc, mvyp lvftj qemyfq yp njzfmjn.

Lj flj ym, mvjkjhfkj, mf ieqnfk eqn mf mvj esyieotj kjtemyfqp jbypmyqa
ojmljjq mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp eqn mvfpj xfljkp mf njitekj mvem lj pvfrtn
ifqpynjk eqc emmjsxm fq mvjyk xekm mf jbmjqn mvjyk pcpmjs mf eqc xfkmyfq fh
mvyp vjsypxvjkj ep neqajkfrp mf frk xjeij eqn pehjmc. Lymv mvj jbypmyqa
iftfqyjp fk njxjqnjqiyjp fh eqc Jrkfxjeq xfljk lj vezj qfm yqmjkhjkjn eqn
pvett qfm yqmjkhjkj, orm lymv mvj Afzjkqsjqmp lvf vezj njitekjn mvjyk
yqnjxjqnjqij eqn seyqmeyqjn ym, eqn lvfpj yqnjxjqnjqij lj vezj, fq akjem
ifqpynjkemyfq eqn fq wrpm xkyqiyxtjp, eigqfltjnajn, lj ifrtn qfm zyjl eqc
yqmjkxfpymyfq hfk mvj xrkxfpj fh fxxkjppyqa mvjs, fk ifqmkfttyqa yq eqc
fmvjk seqqjk mvjyk njpmyqc, oc eqc Jrkfxjeq xfljk yq eqc fmvjk tyavm mveq
ep mvj seqyhjpmemyfq fh eq rqhkyjqntc nypxfpymyfq mflekn mvj Rqymjn
Pmemjp.

Yq mvj lek ojmljjq mvfpj qjl Afzjkqsjqmp eqn Pxeyq lj njitekjn frk
qjrmketymc em mvj mysj fh mvjyk kjifaqymyfq, eqn mf mvyp lj vezj envjkjn,
eqn pvett ifqmyqrj mf envjkj, xkfzynjn qf iveqaj pvett fiirk lvyiv, yq mvj
wrnasjqm fh mvj ifsxjmjqm ermvfkymyjp fh mvyp Afzjkqsjqm, pvett segj e
ifkkjpxfqnyqa iveqaj fq mvj xekm fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp yqnypxjqpeotj mf
mvjyk pjirkymc.

Mvj temj jzjqmp yq Pxeyq eqn Xfkmraet pvjl mvem Jrkfxj yp pmytt rqpjmmtjn.
Fh mvyp ysxfkmeqm heim qf pmkfqajk xkffh ieq oj ennrijn mveq mvem mvj
ettyjn xfljkp pvfrtn vezj mvfravm ym xkfxjk, fq eqc xkyqiyxtj pemypheimfkc
mf mvjspjtzjp, mf vezj yqmjkxfpjn oc hfkij yq mvj yqmjkqet ifqijkqp fh
Pxeyq. Mf lvem jbmjqm priv yqmjkxfpymyfq sec oj iekkyjn, fq mvj pesj
xkyqiyxtj, yp e drjpmyfq yq lvyiv ett yqnjxjqnjqm xfljkp lvfpj afzjkqsjqmp
nyhhjk hkfs mvjykp ekj yqmjkjpmjn, jzjq mvfpj sfpm kjsfmj, eqn prkjtc qfqj
sfkj pf mveq mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp.

Frk xftyic yq kjaekn mf Jrkfxj, lvyiv lep enfxmjn em eq jektc pmeaj fh mvj
lekp lvyiv vezj pf tfqa eaymemjn mvem drekmjk fh mvj atfoj, qjzjkmvjtjpp
kjseyqp mvj pesj, lvyiv yp, qfm mf yqmjkhjkj yq mvj yqmjkqet ifqijkqp fh
eqc fh ymp xfljkp; mf ifqpynjk mvj afzjkqsjqm nj heimf ep mvj tjaymysemj
afzjkqsjqm hfk rp; mf irtmyzemj hkyjqntc kjtemyfqp lymv ym, eqn mf xkjpjkzj
mvfpj kjtemyfqp oc e hkeqg, hyks, eqn seqtc xftyic, sjjmyqa yq ett
yqpmeqijp mvj wrpm iteysp fh jzjkc xfljk, prosymmyqa mf yqwrkyjp hkfs
qfqj.

Orm yq kjaekn mf mvfpj ifqmyqjqmp iykirspmeqijp ekj jsyqjqmtc eqn
ifqpxyirfrptc nyhhjkjqm. Ym yp ysxfppyotj mvem mvj ettyjn xfljkp pvfrtn
jbmjqn mvjyk xftymyiet pcpmjs mf eqc xfkmyfq fh jymvjk ifqmyqjqm lymvfrm
jqneqajkyqa frk xjeij eqn vexxyqjpp; qfk ieq eqcfqj ojtyjzj mvem frk
pfrmvjkq okjmvkjq, yh tjhm mf mvjspjtzjp, lfrtn enfxm ym fh mvjyk flq
eiifkn. Ym yp jdrettc ysxfppyotj, mvjkjhfkj, mvem lj pvfrtn ojvftn priv
yqmjkxfpymyfq yq eqc hfks lymv yqnyhhjkjqij. Yh lj tffg mf mvj ifsxekemyzj
pmkjqamv eqn kjpfrkijp fh Pxeyq eqn mvfpj qjl Afzjkqsjqmp, eqn mvjyk
nypmeqij hkfs jeiv fmvjk, ym srpm oj fozyfrp mvem pvj ieq qjzjk pronrj
mvjs. Ym yp pmytt mvj mkrj xftyic fh mvj Rqymjn Pmemjp mf tjezj mvj xekmyjp
mf mvjspjtzjp, yq mvj vfxj mvem fmvjk xfljkp lytt xrkprj mvj pesj ifrkpj.

Yh lj ifsxekj mvj xkjpjqm ifqnymyfq fh frk Rqyfq lymv ymp eimret pmemj em
mvj itfpj fh frk Kjzftrmyfq, mvj vypmfkc fh mvj lfktn hrkqypvjp qf jbesxtj
fh e xkfakjpp yq ysxkfzjsjqm yq ett mvj ysxfkmeqm iykirspmeqijp lvyiv
ifqpmymrmj mvj vexxyqjpp fh e qemyfq lvyiv ojekp eqc kjpjsoteqij mf ym. Em
mvj hykpm jxfiv frk xfxrtemyfq nyn qfm jbijjn 3,000,000. Oc mvj tepm ijqprp
ym esfrqmjn mf eofrm 10,000,000, eqn, lvem yp sfkj jbmkefknyqekc, ym yp
etsfpm etmfajmvjk qemyzj, hfk mvj yssyakemyfq hkfs fmvjk ifrqmkyjp vep ojjq
yqifqpynjkeotj.

Em mvj hykpm jxfiv veth mvj mjkkymfkc lymvyq frk eigqfltjnajn tysymp lep
rqyqveoymjn eqn e lytnjkqjpp. Pyqij mvjq qjl mjkkymfkc vep ojjq eidrykjn fh
zepm jbmjqm, ifsxkypyqa lymvyq ym seqc kyzjkp, xekmyirtektc mvj
Syppyppyxxy, mvj qezyaemyfq fh lvyiv mf mvj fijeq lep fh mvj vyavjpm
ysxfkmeqij mf mvj fkyayqet Pmemjp. Fzjk mvyp mjkkymfkc frk xfxrtemyfq vep
jbxeqnjn yq jzjkc nykjimyfq, eqn qjl Pmemjp vezj ojjq jpmeotypvjn etsfpm
jdret yq qrsojk mf mvfpj lvyiv hfksjn mvj hykpm ofqn fh frk Rqyfq. Mvyp
jbxeqpyfq fh frk xfxrtemyfq eqn eiijppyfq fh qjl Pmemjp mf frk Rqyfq vezj
ven mvj vexxyjpm jhhjim fq ett ymp vyavjpm yqmjkjpmp.

Mvem ym vep jsyqjqmtc erasjqmjn frk kjpfrkijp eqn ennjn mf frk pmkjqamv eqn
kjpxjimeoytymc ep e xfljk yp ensymmjn oc ett, orm ym yp qfm yq mvjpj
ysxfkmeqm iykirspmeqijp fqtc mvem mvyp vexxc jhhjim yp hjtm. Ym yp seqyhjpm
mvem oc jqtekayqa mvj oepyp fh frk pcpmjs eqn yqikjepyqa mvj qrsojk fh
Pmemjp mvj pcpmjs ympjth vep ojjq akjemtc pmkjqamvjqjn yq ofmv ymp
okeqivjp. Ifqpftynemyfq eqn nyprqyfq vezj mvjkjoc ojjq kjqnjkjn jdrettc
ysxkeimyieotj.

Jeiv Afzjkqsjqm, ifqhynyqa yq ymp flq pmkjqamv, vep tjpp mf exxkjvjqn hkfs
mvj fmvjk, eqn yq ifqpjdrjqij jeiv, jqwfcyqa e akjemjk hkjjnfs fh eimyfq,
yp kjqnjkjn sfkj jhhyiyjqm hfk ett mvj xrkxfpjp hfk lvyiv ym lep
yqpmymrmjn.

Ym yp rqqjijppekc mf mkjem vjkj fh mvj zepm ysxkfzjsjqm senj yq mvj pcpmjs
ympjth oc mvj enfxmyfq fh mvyp Ifqpmymrmyfq eqn fh ymp vexxc jhhjim yq
jtjzemyqa mvj ivekeimjk eqn yq xkfmjimyqa mvj kyavmp fh mvj qemyfq ep ljtt
ep yqnyzynretp. Mf lvem, mvjq, nf lj flj mvjpj otjppyqap? Ym yp gqflq mf
ett mvem lj njkyzj mvjs hkfs mvj jbijttjqij fh frk yqpmymrmyfqp. Fravm lj
qfm, mvjq, mf enfxm jzjkc sjeprkj lvyiv sec oj qjijppekc mf xjkxjmremj
mvjs?