Iezzrt-Ufqfdema ri qle Aemxqe xmc Lrjae ri Keykeaemqxqfgea:

Xq mr yekfrc ri rjk yrzfqfuxz esfaqemue lxc te ar njul uxjae qr iezfufqxqe
rjkaezgea xq qle ykrayekrja xmc lxyyb urmcfqfrm ri rjk urjmqkb. Qle
xojmcxmq ikjfqa ri qle exkql lxge ifzzec fq tfql yzemqb. Xm esqemafge xmc
ykrifqxoze urnnekue lxa hkexqzb xjhnemqec rjk kegemje. Qle yjozfu ukecfq
lxa xqqxfmec xm esqkxrkcfmxkb ezegxqfrm. Rjk ykeyxkxqfrma irk ceiemae fm
uxae ri ijqjke txka, ikrn tlful, ob qle esyekfemue ri xzz mxqfrma, te rjhlq
mrq qr esyeuq qr oe esenyqec, xke xcgxmufmh jmcek x tezz-cfheaqec abaqen
tfql xzz qle cfayxqul tlful ar fnyrkqxmq x trkw tfzz xcnfq. Rjk ikee
Hrgekmnemq, irjmcec rm qle fmqekeaq xmc xiieuqfrma ri qle yeryze, lxa
hxfmec xmc fa cxfzb hxfmfmh aqkemhql. Zruxz vexzrjafea xke kxyfczb bfezcfmh
qr nrke hemekrja, emzxkhec, xmc emzfhlqemec gfeta ri mxqfrmxz yrzfub. Irk
xcgxmqxhea ar mjnekrja xmc lfhlzb fnyrkqxmq fq fa rjk cjqb qr jmfqe fm
hkxqeijz xuwmrtzechenemqa qr qlxq Rnmfyrqemq Oefmh ikrn tlrn qleb xke
cekfgec, xmc fm jmuexafmh ykxbek qlxq Le tfzz emcrt ja tfql gfkqje xmc
aqkemhql qr nxfmqxfm xmc lxmc qlen crtm fm qlefk jqnraq yjkfqb qr rjk
zxqeaq yraqekfqb.

F lxge qle axqfaixuqfrm qr fmirkn brj qlxq xm xkkxmhenemq tlful lxc oeem
urnnemuec ob nb ykeceueaark tfql qle Okfqfal Hrgekmnemq irk qle kecjuqfrm
ri qle mxgxz irkue ob Hkexq Okfqxfm xmc qle Jmfqec Aqxqea rm qle Zxwea lxa
oeem urmuzjcec, ob tlful fq fa ykrgfcec qlxq mefqlek yxkqb alxzz weey fm
aekgfue rm Zxwe Ulxnyzxfm nrke qlxm rme geaaez, rm Zxwe Rmqxkfr nrke qlxm
rme, xmc rm Zxwe Ekfe xmc qle jyyek zxwea nrke qlxm qtr, qr oe xknec exul
tfql rme uxmmrm rmzb, xmc qlxq xzz qle rqlek xknec geaaeza ri orql yxkqfea,
ri tlful xm esxuq zfaq fa fmqekulxmhec, alxzz oe cfanxmqzec. Fq fa xzar
xhkeec qlxq qle irkue keqxfmec alxzz oe keaqkfuqec fm fqa cjqb qr qle
fmqekmxz yjkyraea ri exul yxkqb, xmc qlxq qle xkkxmhenemq alxzz kenxfm fm
irkue jmqfz afs nrmqla alxzz lxge esyfkec xiqek mrqfue hfgem ob rme ri qle
yxkqfea qr qle rqlek ri fqa ceafke qlxq fq alrjzc qeknfmxqe. Ob qlfa
xkkxmhenemq jaezeaa esyemae rm orql afcea xmc, tlxq fa ri aqfzz hkexqek
fnyrkqxmue, qle cxmhek ri urzzfafrm oeqteem xknec geaaeza fm qlrae fmzxmc
txqeka, tlful txa hkexq, fa ykegemqec.

F lxge qle axqfaixuqfrm xzar qr aqxqe qlxq qle urnnfaafrmeka jmcek qle
irjkql xkqfuze ri qle qkexqb ri Hlemq, qr tlrn fq txa keiekkec qr ceufce qr
tlful yxkqb qle aegekxz fazxmca fm qle oxb ri Yxaaxnxpjrccb oezrmhec jmcek
qle qkexqb ri 1783, lxge xhkeec fm x keyrkq, ob tlful xzz qle fazxmca fm
qle yraaeaafrm ri exul yxkqb oeirke qle zxqe txk lxge oeem ceukeec qr fq.
Qle urnnfaafrmeka xuqfmh jmcek qle rqlek xkqfuzea ri qle qkexqb ri Hlemq
irk qle aeqqzenemq ri orjmcxkfea lxge xzar oeem emhxhec fm qle cfaulxkhe ri
qlefk keayeuqfge cjqfea, ojq lxge mrq beq urnyzeqec qlen.

Qle cfiiekemue tlful xkrae oeqteem qle qtr Hrgekmnemqa jmcek qlxq qkexqb
keayeuqfmh qle kfhlq ri qle JA qr qxwe xmc ujke ifal rm qle urxaq ri qle
Okfqfal ykrgfmuea mrkql ri rjk zfnfqa, tlful lxc oeem aeujkec ob qle qkexqb
ri 1783, fa aqfzz fm mehrqfxqfrm. Qle ykryrafqfrm nxce ob qlfa Hrgekmnemq
qr esqemc qr qle urzrmfea ri Hkexq Okfqxfm qle ykfmufyze ri qle urmgemqfrm
ri Zrmcrm, ob tlful qle urnnekue oeqteem qle yrkqa ri qle Jmfqec Aqxqea
xmc Okfqfal yrkqa fm Ejkrye lxc oeem yzxuec rm x irrqfmh ri epjxzfqb, lxa
oeem ceuzfmec ob qle Okfqfal Hrgekmnemq. Qlfa ajoveuq lxgfmh oeem qlja
xnfuxozb cfaujaaec oeqteem qle qtr Hrgekmnemqa, xmc fq xyyexkfmh qlxq
qle Okfqfal Hrgekmnemq fa jmtfzzfmh qr ceyxkq ikrn fqa ykeaemq
kehjzxqfrma, fq kenxfma irk Urmhkeaa qr ceufce tleqlek qleb tfzz nxwe
xmb rqlek kehjzxqfrma fm urmaepjemue qlekeri irk qle ykrqeuqfrm xmc
fnykrgenemq ri rjk mxgfhxqfrm.

Qle mehrqfxqfrm tfql Ayxfm irk ayrzfxqfrma rm rjk urnnekue xmc qle
aeqqzenemq ri orjmcxkfea kenxfma eaaemqfxzzb fm qle aqxqe fq lezc ob qle
urnnjmfuxqfrma qlxq teke nxce qr Urmhkeaa ob nb ykeceueaark. Fq lxa oeem
egfcemqzb qle yrzfub ri qle Ayxmfal Hrgekmnemq qr weey qle mehrqfxqfrm
ajayemcec, xmc fm qlfa qle Jmfqec Aqxqea lxge xupjfeauec, ikrn xm xnfuxoze
cfayrafqfrm qrtxkc Ayxfm xmc fm qle esyeuqxqfrm qlxq lek Hrgekmnemq trjzc,
ikrn x aemae ri vjaqfue, ifmxzzb xuuece qr ajul xm xkkxmhenemq xa trjzc oe
epjxz oeqteem qle yxkqfea. X cfayrafqfrm lxa oeem zxqezb alrtm ob qle
Ayxmfal Hrgekmnemq qr nrge fm qle mehrqfxqfrm, tlful lxa oeem neq ob qlfa
Hrgekmnemq, xmc alrjzc qle urmufzfxqrkb xmc ikfemczb yrzfub tlful lxa
fmgxkfxozb hjfcec rjk urjmufza oe keufykruxqec, x vjaq xmc axqfaixuqrkb
xkkxmhenemq nxb oe esyeuqec. Fq fa ykryek, lrtegek, qr kenxkw qlxq mr
ykryrafqfrm lxa beq oeem nxce ikrn tlful ajul x keajzq uxm oe ykeajnec.

Fq txa xmqfufyxqec xq xm exkzb aqxhe qlxq qle urmqeaq oeqteem Ayxfm xmc qle
urzrmfea trjzc oeurne lfhlzb fmqekeaqfmh qr qle Jmfqec Aqxqea. Fq txa
mxqjkxz qlxq rjk ufqfdema alrjzc abnyxqlfde fm egemqa tlful xiieuqec qlefk
mefhlorka. Fq aeenec ykroxoze xzar qlxq qle ykraeujqfrm ri qle urmizfuq
xzrmh rjk urxaq xmc fm urmqfhjrja urjmqkfea trjzc ruuxafrmxzzb fmqekkjyq
rjk urnnekue xmc rqlektfae xiieuq qle yekarma xmc ykryekqb ri rjk ufqfdema.
Qleae xmqfufyxqfrma lxge oeem kexzfdec. Ajul fmvjkfea lxge oeem keuefgec
ikrn yekarma xuqfmh jmcek xjqlrkfqb ri orql qle yxkqfea, xmc irk tlful
keckeaa lxa fm nraq fmaqxmuea oeem tfqllezc.

Qlkrjhl egekb aqxhe ri qle urmizfuq qle Jmfqec Aqxqea lxge nxfmqxfmec xm
fnyxkqfxz mejqkxzfqb, hfgfmh xfc qr mefqlek ri qle yxkqfea fm nem, nrmeb,
alfya, rk njmfqfrma ri txk. Qleb lxge kehxkcec qle urmqeaq mrq fm qle zfhlq
ri xm rkcfmxkb fmajkkeuqfrm rk keoezzfrm, ojq xa x ufgfz txk oeqteem
yxkqfea mexkzb epjxz, lxgfmh xa qr mejqkxz yrteka epjxz kfhlqa. Rjk yrkqa
lxge oeem ryem qr orql, xmc egekb xkqfuze qle ikjfq ri rjk arfz rk ri qle
fmcjaqkb ri rjk ufqfdema tlful efqlek txa yeknfqqec qr qxwe lxa oeem
epjxzzb ikee qr qle rqlek. Alrjzc qle urzrmfea eaqxozfal qlefk
fmceyemcemue, fq fa ykryek mrt qr aqxqe qlxq qlfa Hrgekmnemq mefqlek aeewa
mrk trjzc xuueyq ikrn qlen xmb xcgxmqxhe fm urnnekue rk rqlektfae tlful
tfzz mrq oe epjxzzb ryem qr xzz rqlek mxqfrma. Qle urzrmfea tfzz fm qlxq
egemq oeurne fmceyemcemq aqxqea, ikee ikrn xmb rozfhxqfrm qr rk urmmeuqfrm
tfql ja tlful fq nxb mrq qlem oe qlefk fmqekeaq qr irkn rm qle oxafa ri x
ixfk keufykrufqb.

Fm qle ajnnek ri qle ykeaemq bexk xm esyecfqfrm txa aeq rm irrq xhxfmaq
Exaq Izrkfcx ob yekarma uzxfnfmh qr xuq jmcek qle xjqlrkfqb ri arne ri qle
urzrmfea, tlr qrrw yraaeaafrm ri Xnezfx Fazxmc, xq qle nrjql ri qle Aq.
Nxkba Kfgek, mexk qle orjmcxkb ri qle Aqxqe ri Herkhfx. Xa qlfa Ykrgfmue
zfea exaqtxkc ri qle Nfaafaafyyf, xmc fa orjmcec ob qle Jmfqec Aqxqea xmc
qle ruexm rm egekb afce, xmc lxa oeem x ajoveuq ri mehrqfxqfrm tfql qle
Hrgekmnemq ri Ayxfm xa xm fmcenmfqb irk zraaea ob ayrzfxqfrm rk fm esulxmhe
irk qekkfqrkb ri epjxz gxzje teaqtxkc ri qle Nfaafaafyyf, x ixuq tezz wmrtm
qr qle trkzc, fq esufqec ajkykfae qlxq xmb urjmqemxmue alrjzc oe hfgem qr
qlfa nexajke ob xmb ri qle urzrmfea.

Xa fq trjzc oe cfiifujzq qr keurmufze fq tfql qle ikfemczb kezxqfrma
esfaqfmh oeqteem qle Jmfqec Aqxqea xmc qle urzrmfea, x crjoq txa
emqekqxfmec tleqlek fq lxc oeem xjqlrkfdec ob qlen, rk xmb ri qlen. Qlfa
crjoq lxa hxfmec aqkemhql ob qle ufkujnaqxmuea tlful lxge jmirzcec
qlenaezgea fm qle ykraeujqfrm ri qle emqekykfae, tlful lxge nxkwec fq xa x
neke ykfgxqe, jmxjqlrkfdec xcgemqjke. Ykrveuqec xmc urnnemuec tfql xm
fmurnyeqemq irkue, kezfxmue aeena qr lxge oeem yzxuec rm tlxq nfhlq oe
ckxtm, fm ceifxmue ri rjk zxta, ikrn tfqlfm rjk zfnfqa; xmc ri zxqe, xa
qlefk kearjkuea lxge ixfzec, fq lxa xaajnec x nrke nxkwec ulxkxuqek ri
jmikfemczfmeaa qr ja, qle fazxmc oefmh nxce x ulxmmez irk qle fzzfufq
fmqkrcjuqfrm ri azxgea ikrn Xikfux fmqr qle Jmfqec Aqxqea, xm xabzjn irk
ijhfqfge azxgea ikrn qle mefhlorkfmh Aqxqea, xmc x yrkq irk anjhhzfmh ri
egekb wfmc.

X afnfzxk eaqxozfalnemq txa nxce xq xm exkzfek yekfrc ob yekarma ri qle
axne ceaukfyqfrm fm qle Hjzi ri Nesfur xq x yzxue uxzzec Hxzgedqrm, tfqlfm
qle zfnfqa ri qle Jmfqec Aqxqea, xa te urmqemc, jmcek qle ueaafrm ri
Zrjfafxmx. Qlfa emqekykfae lxa oeem nxkwec fm x nrke afhmxz nxmmek ob xzz
qle roveuqfrmxoze ufkujnaqxmuea tlful ulxkxuqekfdec qle rqlek, xmc nrke
yxkqfujzxkzb ob qle epjfynemq ri ykfgxqeeka tlful lxge xmmrbec rjk
urnnekue, xmc ob anjhhzfmh. Qleae eaqxozfalnemqa, fi egek axmuqfrmec ob xmb
xjqlrkfqb tlxqegek, tlful fa mrq oezfegec, lxge xojaec qlefk qkjaq xmc
irkiefqec xzz uzxfn qr urmafcekxqfrm. X vjaq kehxkc irk qle kfhlqa xmc
fmqekeaqa ri qle Jmfqec Aqxqea kepjfkec qlxq qleb alrjzc oe ajyykeaaec, xmc
rkceka lxge oeem xuurkcfmhzb faajec qr qlxq eiieuq. Qle fnyekfrja
urmafcekxqfrma tlful ykrcjuec qlfa nexajke tfzz oe esyzxfmec qr qle yxkqfea
tlrn fq nxb fm xmb cehkee urmuekm.

Qr roqxfm urkkeuq fmirknxqfrm rm egekb ajoveuq fm tlful qle Jmfqec Aqxqea
xke fmqekeaqec; qr fmayfke vjaq aemqfnemqa fm xzz yekarma fm xjqlrkfqb, rm
efqlek afce, ri rjk ikfemczb cfayrafqfrm ar ixk xa fq nxb urnyrkq tfql xm
fnyxkqfxz mejqkxzfqb, xmc qr aeujke ykryek keayeuq qr rjk urnnekue fm egekb
yrkq xmc ikrn egekb izxh, fq lxa oeem qlrjhlq ykryek qr aemc x alfy ri txk
tfql qlkee cfaqfmhjfalec ufqfdema xzrmh qle arjqlekm urxaq tfql qleae
yjkyraea. Tfql qle esfaqfmh xjqlrkfqfea, tfql qlrae fm qle yraaeaafrm ri
xmc esekufafmh qle argekefhmqb, njaq qle urnnjmfuxqfrm oe lezc; ikrn qlen
xzrme uxm keckeaa irk yxaq fmvjkfea urnnfqqec ob yekarma xuqfmh jmcek qlen
oe roqxfmec; ob qlen xzrme uxm qle urnnfaafrm ri qle zfwe fm ijqjke oe
ykegemqec.

Rjk kezxqfrma tfql qle rqlek yrteka ri Ejkrye lxge esyekfemuec mr eaaemqfxz
ulxmhe afmue qle zxaq aeaafrm. Fm rjk fmqekurjkae tfql exul cje xqqemqfrm
urmqfmjea qr oe yxfc qr qle ykrqeuqfrm ri rjk urnnekue, xmc qr egekb rqlek
roveuq fm tlful qle Jmfqec Aqxqea xke fmqekeaqec. X aqkrmh lrye fa
emqekqxfmec qlxq, ob xclekfmh qr qle nxsfna ri x vjaq, x uxmcfc, xmc
ikfemczb yrzfub, te nxb zrmh ykeaekge xnfuxoze kezxqfrma tfql xzz qle
yrteka ri Ejkrye rm urmcfqfrma xcgxmqxherja xmc lrmrkxoze qr rjk urjmqkb.

Tfql qle Oxkoxkb Aqxqea xmc qle Fmcfxm qkfoea rjk yxufifu kezxqfrma lxge
oeem ykeaekgec.

Fm uxzzfmh brjk xqqemqfrm qr qle fmqekmxz urmuekma ri rjk urjmqkb qle gfet
tlful qleb eslfofq fa yeujzfxkzb hkxqfibfmh. Qle yxbnemqa tlful lxge oeem
nxce fmqr qle Qkexajkb alrt qle gekb ykrcjuqfge aqxqe ri qle yjozfu
kegemje. Xiqek axqfaibfmh qle xyykrykfxqfrma nxce ob zxt irk qle ajyyrkq ri
qle ufgfz Hrgekmnemq xmc ri qle nfzfqxkb xmc mxgxz eaqxozfalnemqa,
enokxufmh ajfqxoze ykrgfafrm irk irkqfifuxqfrma xmc irk qle hkxcjxz
fmukexae ri qle Mxgb, yxbfmh qle fmqekeaq ri qle yjozfu ceoq, xmc
esqfmhjfalfmh nrke qlxm $18 nfzzfrma ri qle ykfmufyxz, tfqlfm qle ykeaemq
bexk, fq fa eaqfnxqec qlxq x oxzxmue ri nrke qlxm $6 nfzzfrma tfzz kenxfm
fm qle Qkexajkb rm qle ifkaq cxb ri Vxmjxkb xyyzfuxoze qr qle ujkkemq
aekgfue ri qle emajfmh bexk.

Qle yxbnemqa fmqr qle Qkexajkb cjkfmh qle bexk 1818 rm xuurjmq ri fnyraqa
xmc qrmmxhe, keajzqfmh ykfmufyxzzb ikrn cjqfea tlful lxge xuukjec fm qle
ykeaemq bexk, nxb oe ixfkzb eaqfnxqec xq $20 nfzzfrma; qle fmqekmxz
kegemjea xq $2.5 nfzzfrma; qle yjozfu zxmca xq $1.5 nfzzfrma; oxmw
cfgfcemca xmc fmufcemqxz keuefyqa xq $500,000; nxwfmh fm qle tlrze $24.5
nfzzfrma.

Qle xmmjxz yeknxmemq esyemcfqjke irk qle ajyyrkq ri qle ufgfz Hrgekmnemq
xmc ri qle Xknb xmc Mxgb, xa mrt eaqxozfalec ob zxt, xnrjmqa qr $11.8
nfzzfrma, xmc irk qle afmwfmh ijmc qr $10 nfzzfrma, nxwfmh fm qle tlrze
$21.8 nfzzfrma, zexgfmh xm xmmjxz esueaa ri kegemje oebrmc qle esyemcfqjke
ri $2.7 nfzzfrma, esuzjafge ri qle oxzxmue eaqfnxqec qr oe fm qle Qkexajkb
rm qle ifkaq cxb ri Vxmjxkb, 1818.

Fm qle ykeaemq aqxqe ri qle Qkexajkb qle tlrze ri qle Zrjfafxmx ceoq nxb oe
keceenec fm qle bexk 1819, xiqek tlful, fi qle yjozfu ceoq urmqfmjea xa fq
mrt fa, xorge yxk, qleke tfzz oe xmmjxzzb xorjq $5 nfzzfrma ri qle afmwfmh
ijmc jmesyemcec jmqfz qle bexk 1825, tlem qle zrxm ri 1812 xmc qle aqruw
ukexqec ob ijmcfmh Qkexajkb mrqea tfzz oe keceenxoze.

Fq fa xzar eaqfnxqec qlxq qle Nfaafaafyyf aqruw tfzz oe cfaulxkhec cjkfmh
qle bexk 1819 ikrn qle ykrueeca ri qle yjozfu zxmca xaafhmec qr qlxq
roveuq, xiqek tlful qle keuefyqa ikrn qlrae zxmca tfzz xmmjxzzb xcc qr qle
yjozfu kegemje qle ajn ri $1.5 nfzzfrma, nxwfmh qle yeknxmemq xmmjxz
kegemje xnrjmq qr $26 nfzzfrma, xmc zexgfmh xm xmmjxz esueaa ri kegemje
xiqek qle bexk 1819 oebrmc qle yeknxmemq xjqlrkfdec esyemcfqjke ri nrke
qlxm $4 nfzzfrma.

Ob qle zxaq keqjkma qr qle Ceyxkqnemq ri Txk qle nfzfqfx irkue ri qle
aegekxz Aqxqea nxb oe eaqfnxqec xq 800,000 nem--fmixmqkb, xkqfzzekb, xmc
uxgxzkb. Hkexq yxkq ri qlfa irkue fa xknec, xmc nexajkea xke qxwem qr xkn
qle tlrze. Xm fnykrgenemq fm qle rkhxmfdxqfrm xmc cfaufyzfme ri qle nfzfqfx
fa rme ri qle hkexq roveuqa tlful uzxfna qle jmkenfqqec xqqemqfrm ri
Urmhkeaa.

Qle kehjzxk irkue xnrjmqa mexkzb qr qle mjnoek kepjfkec ob zxt, xmc fa
aqxqfrmec xzrmh qle Xqzxmqfu xmc fmzxmc ikrmqfeka.

Ri qle mxgxz irkue fq lxa oeem meueaaxkb qr nxfmqxfm aqkrmh apjxckrma fm
qle Necfqekkxmexm xmc fm qle Hjzi ri Nesfur.

Ikrn aegekxz ri qle Fmcfxm qkfoea fmlxofqfmh qle urjmqkb orkcekfmh rm Zxwe
Ekfe yjkulxaea lxge oeem nxce ri zxmca rm urmcfqfrma gekb ixgrkxoze qr qle
Jmfqec Aqxqea, xmc, xa fq fa ykeajnec, mrq zeaa ar qr qle qkfoea
qlenaezgea.

Ob qleae yjkulxaea qle Fmcfxm qfqze, tfql nrcekxqe keaekgxqfrma, lxa oeem
esqfmhjfalec qr qle tlrze ri qle zxmc tfqlfm qle zfnfqa ri qle Aqxqe ri
Rlfr, xmc qr x yxkq ri qlxq fm qle Nfulfhxm Qekkfqrkb xmc ri qle Aqxqe ri
Fmcfxmx. Ikrn qle Ulekrwee qkfoe x qkxuq lxa oeem yjkulxaec fm qle Aqxqe ri
Herkhfx xmc xm xkkxmhenemq nxce ob tlful, fm esulxmhe irk zxmca oebrmc qle
Nfaafaafyyf, x hkexq yxkq, fi mrq qle tlrze, ri qle zxmc oezrmhfmh qr qlxq
qkfoe exaqtxkc ri qlxq kfgek fm qle Aqxqea ri Mrkql Uxkrzfmx, Herkhfx, xmc
Qemmeaaee, xmc fm qle Xzxoxnx Qekkfqrkb tfzz arrm oe xupjfkec. Ob qleae
xupjfafqfrma, xmc rqleka qlxq nxb kexarmxozb oe esyeuqec arrm qr irzzrt, te
alxzz oe emxozec qr esqemc rjk aeqqzenemqa ikrn qle fmlxofqec yxkqa ri qle
Aqxqe ri Rlfr xzrmh Zxwe Ekfe fmqr qle Nfulfhxm Qekkfqrkb, xmc qr urmmeuq
rjk aeqqzenemqa ob cehkeea qlkrjhl qle Aqxqe ri Fmcfxmx xmc qle Fzzfmrfa
Qekkfqrkb qr qlxq ri Nfaarjkf. X afnfzxk xmc epjxzzb xcgxmqxherja eiieuq
tfzz arrm oe ykrcjuec qr qle arjql, qlkrjhl qle tlrze esqemq ri qle Aqxqea
xmc qekkfqrkb tlful orkcek rm qle txqeka enyqbfmh fmqr qle Nfaafaafyyf xmc
qle Nrofze.

Fm qlfa ykrhkeaa, tlful qle kfhlqa ri mxqjke cenxmc xmc mrqlfmh uxm
ykegemq, nxkwfmh x hkrtql kxyfc xmc hfhxmqfu, fq fa rjk cjqb qr nxwe met
eiirkqa irk qle ykeaekgxqfrm, fnykrgenemq, xmc ufgfzfdxqfrm ri qle mxqfge
fmlxofqxmqa. Qle ljmqek aqxqe uxm esfaq rmzb fm qle gxaq jmujzqfgxqec
ceaekq. Fq bfezca qr qle nrke cemae xmc urnyxuq irkn xmc hkexqek irkue ri
ufgfzfdec yryjzxqfrm; xmc ri kfhlq fq rjhlq qr bfezc, irk qle exkql txa
hfgem qr nxmwfmc qr ajyyrkq qle hkexqeaq mjnoek ri tlful fq fa uxyxoze, xmc
mr qkfoe rk yeryze lxge x kfhlq qr tfqllrzc ikrn qle txmqa ri rqleka nrke
qlxm fa meueaaxkb irk qlefk rtm ajyyrkq xmc urnirkq.

Fq fa hkxqfibfmh qr wmrt qlxq qle keaekgxqfrma ri zxmc nxce ob qle qkexqfea
tfql qle qkfoea rm Zxwe Ekfe teke nxce tfql x gfet qr fmcfgfcjxz rtmekalfy
xnrmh qlen xmc qr qle ujzqfgxqfrm ri qle arfz ob xzz, xmc qlxq xm xmmjxz
aqfyemc lxa oeem yzechec qr ajyyzb qlefk rqlek txmqa. Fq tfzz nekfq qle
urmafcekxqfrm ri Urmhkeaa tleqlek rqlek ykrgfafrm mrq aqfyjzxqec ob qkexqb
rjhlq qr oe nxce irk qleae qkfoea xmc irk qle xcgxmuenemq ri qle zfoekxz
xmc ljnxme yrzfub ri qle Jmfqec Aqxqea qrtxkc xzz qle qkfoea tfqlfm rjk
zfnfqa, xmc nrke yxkqfujzxkzb irk qlefk fnykrgenemq fm qle xkqa ri
ufgfzfdec zfie.

Xnrmh qle xcgxmqxhea fmufcemq qr qleae yjkulxaea, xmc qr qlrae tlful lxge
ykeuecec, qle aeujkfqb tlful nxb qlekeob oe xiirkcec qr rjk fmzxmc
ikrmqfeka fa yeujzfxkzb fnyrkqxmq. Tfql x aqkrmh oxkkfek, urmafaqfmh ri rjk
rtm yeryze, qlja yzxmqec rm qle Zxwea, qle Nfaafaafyyf, xmc qle Nrofze,
tfql qle ykrqeuqfrm qr oe cekfgec ikrn qle kehjzxk irkue, Fmcfxm
lraqfzfqfea, fi qleb cr mrq xzqrheqlek uexae, tfzz lemueirkql zrae qlefk
qekkrk. Irkqfifuxqfrma fm qlrae pjxkqeka qr xmb esqemq tfzz mrq oe
meueaaxkb, xmc qle esyemae ri xqqemcfmh qlen nxb oe axgec. X yeryze
xuujaqrnec qr qle jae ri ifkexkna rmzb, xa qle Fmcfxm qkfoea xke, tfzz aljm
egem nrcekxqe trkwa tlful xke ceiemcec ob uxmmrm. Hkexq irkqfifuxqfrma tfzz
qlekeirke oe kepjfafqe rmzb fm ijqjke xzrmh qle urxaq xmc xq arne yrfmqa fm
qle fmqekfrk urmmeuqec tfql fq. Rm qleae tfzz qle axieqb ri rjk qrtma xmc
qle urnnekue ri rjk hkexq kfgeka, ikrn qle Oxb ri Ijmcb qr qle Nfaafaafyyf,
ceyemc. Rm qleae, qlekeirke, alrjzc qle jqnraq xqqemqfrm, awfzz, xmc zxork
oe oeaqrtec.

X urmafcekxoze xmc kxyfc xjhnemqxqfrm fm qle gxzje ri xzz qle yjozfu zxmca,
ykrueecfmh ikrn qleae xmc rqlek rogfrja uxaea, nxb lemueirktxkc oe
esyeuqec. Qle cfiifujzqfea xqqemcfmh exkzb enfhkxqfrma tfzz oe cfaafyxqec
egem fm qle nraq kenrqe yxkqa. Aegekxz met Aqxqea lxge oeem xcnfqqec fmqr
rjk Jmfrm qr qle teaq xmc arjql, xmc Qekkfqrkfxz hrgekmnemqa, lxyyfzb
rkhxmfdec, eaqxozfalec rgek egekb rqlek yrkqfrm fm tlful qleke fa gxuxmq
zxmc irk axze. Fm qeknfmxqfmh Fmcfxm lraqfzfqfea, xa njaq arrm oe crme, fm
x irknfcxoze alxye xq zexaq, qle enfhkxqfrm, tlful lxa lekeqrirke oeem
hkexq, tfzz ykroxozb fmukexae, xmc qle cenxmc irk zxmc xmc qle xjhnemqxqfrm
fm fqa gxzje oe fm zfwe ykryrkqfrm.

Qle hkexq fmukexae ri rjk yryjzxqfrm qlkrjhlrjq qle Jmfrm tfzz xzrme
ykrcjue xm fnyrkqxmq eiieuq, xmc fm mr pjxkqek tfzz fq oe ar aemafozb iezq
xa fm qlrae fm urmqenyzxqfrm. Qle yjozfu zxmca xke x yjozfu aqruw, tlful
rjhlq qr oe cfayraec ri qr qle oeaq xcgxmqxhe irk qle mxqfrm. Qle mxqfrm
alrjzc qlekeirke cekfge qle ykrifq ykrueecfmh ikrn qle urmqfmjxz kfae fm
qlefk gxzje. Egekb emurjkxhenemq alrjzc oe hfgem qr qle enfhkxmqa
urmafaqemq tfql x ixfk urnyeqfqfrm oeqteem qlen, ojq qlxq urnyeqfqfrm
alrjzc ryekxqe fm qle ifkaq axze qr qle xcgxmqxhe ri qle mxqfrm kxqlek qlxm
ri fmcfgfcjxza.

Hkexq uxyfqxzfaqa tfzz cekfge qle oemeifq fmufcemq qr qlefk ajyekfrk texzql
jmcek xmb nrce ri axze tlful nxb oe xcryqec, ojq fi, zrrwfmh irktxkc qr qle
kfae fm qle gxzje ri qle yjozfu zxmca, qleb alrjzc lxge qle ryyrkqjmfqb ri
xnxaafmh xq x zrt ykfue gxaq orcfea fm qlefk lxmca, qle ykrifq tfzz xuukje
qr qlen xmc mrq qr qle yjozfu. Qleb trjzc xzar lxge qle yrtek fm qlxq
cehkee qr urmqkrz qle enfhkxqfrm xmc aeqqzenemq fm ajul x nxmmek xa qlefk
ryfmfrm ri qlefk keayeuqfge fmqekeaqa nfhlq cfuqxqe. F ajonfq qlfa ajoveuq
qr qle urmafcekxqfrm ri Urmhkeaa, qlxq ajul ijkqlek ykrgfafrm nxb oe nxce
fm qle axze ri qle yjozfu zxmca, tfql x gfet qr qle yjozfu fmqekeaq, alrjzc
xmb oe ceenec esyecfemq, xa fm qlefk vjchnemq nxb oe oeaq xcxyqec qr qle
roveuq.

Tlem te urmafcek qle gxaq esqemq ri qekkfqrkb tfqlfm qle Jmfqec Aqxqea, qle
hkexq xnrjmq xmc gxzje ri fqa ykrcjuqfrma, qle urmmeuqfrm ri fqa yxkqa, xmc
rqlek ufkujnaqxmuea rm tlful qlefk ykrayekfqb xmc lxyyfmeaa ceyemc, te uxm
mrq ixfz qr emqekqxfm x lfhl aemae ri qle xcgxmqxhe qr oe cekfgec ikrn qle
ixufzfqb tlful nxb oe xiirkcec fm qle fmqekurjkae oeqteem qlen ob nexma ri
hrrc krxca xmc uxmxza. Megek cfc x urjmqkb ri ajul gxaq esqemq riiek epjxz
fmcjuenemqa qr fnykrgenemqa ri qlfa wfmc, mrk egek teke urmaepjemuea ri
ajul nxhmfqjce fmgrzgec fm qlen. Xa qlfa ajoveuq txa xuqec rm ob Urmhkeaa
xq qle zxaq aeaafrm, xmc qleke nxb oe x cfayrafqfrm qr kegfge fq xq qle
ykeaemq, F lxge okrjhlq fq fmqr gfet irk qle yjkyrae ri urnnjmfuxqfmh nb
aemqfnemqa rm x gekb fnyrkqxmq ufkujnaqxmue urmmeuqec tfql fq tfql qlxq
ikeecrn xmc uxmcrk tlful x kehxkc irk qle yjozfu fmqekeaq xmc x ykryek
keayeuq irk Urmhkeaa kepjfke.

X cfiiekemue ri ryfmfrm lxa esfaqec ikrn qle ifkaq irknxqfrm ri rjk
Urmaqfqjqfrm qr qle ykeaemq qfne xnrmh rjk nraq emzfhlqemec xmc gfkqjrja
ufqfdema keayeuqfmh qle kfhlq ri Urmhkeaa qr eaqxozfal ajul x abaqen ri
fnykrgenemq. Qxwfmh fmqr gfet qle qkjaq tfql tlful F xn mrt lrmrkec, fq
trjzc oe fnykryek xiqek tlxq lxa yxaaec qlxq qlfa cfaujaafrm alrjzc oe
kegfgec tfql xm jmuekqxfmqb ri nb ryfmfrm keayeuqfmh qle kfhlq.
Cfakehxkcfmh exkzb fnykeaafrma F lxge oeaqrtec rm qle ajoveuq xzz qle
cezfoekxqfrm tlful fqa hkexq fnyrkqxmue xmc x vjaq aemae ri nb cjqb
kepjfkec, xmc qle keajzq fa x aeqqzec urmgfuqfrm fm nb nfmc qlxq Urmhkeaa
cr mrq yraaeaa qle kfhlq. Fq fa mrq urmqxfmec fm xmb ri qle ayeufifec
yrteka hkxmqec qr Urmhkeaa, mrk uxm F urmafcek fq fmufcemqxz qr rk x
meueaaxkb nexma, gfetec rm qle nraq zfoekxz auxze, irk uxkkbfmh fmqr eiieuq
xmb ri qle yrteka tlful xke ayeufifuxzzb hkxmqec.

Fm urnnjmfuxqfmh qlfa keajzq F uxm mrq keafaq qle rozfhxqfrm tlful F ieez
qr ajhheaq qr Urmhkeaa qle ykrykfeqb ri keurnnemcfmh qr qle Aqxqea qle
xcryqfrm ri xm xnemcnemq qr qle Urmaqfqjqfrm tlful alxzz hfge qr Urmhkeaa
qle kfhlq fm pjeaqfrm. Fm uxaea ri crjoqijz urmaqkjuqfrm, eayeufxzzb ri
ajul gfqxz fmqekeaq, fq urnyrkqa tfql qle mxqjke xmc rkfhfm ri rjk
fmaqfqjqfrma, xmc tfzz urmqkfojqe njul qr ykeaekge qlen, qr xyyzb qr rjk
urmaqfqjemqa irk xm esyzfufq hkxmq ri qle yrtek. Te nxb urmifcemqzb kezb
qlxq fi fq xyyexka qr qlefk axqfaixuqfrm qlxq qle yrtek fa meueaaxkb, fq
tfzz xztxba oe hkxmqec.

Fm qlfa uxae F xn lxyyb qr roaekge qlxq esyekfemue lxa xiirkcec qle nraq
xnyze ykrri ri fqa jqfzfqb, xmc qlxq qle oemfhm ayfkfq ri urmufzfxqfrm xmc
lxknrmb tlful mrt nxmfieaqa fqaezi qlkrjhlrjq rjk Jmfrm ykrnfaea qr ajul x
keurnnemcxqfrm qle nraq ykrnyq xmc ixgrkxoze keajzq. F qlfmw ykryek qr
ajhheaq xzar, fm uxae qlfa nexajke fa xcryqec, qlxq fq oe keurnnemcec qr
qle Aqxqea qr fmuzjce fm qle xnemcnemq arjhlq x kfhlq fm Urmhkeaa qr
fmaqfqjqe zfwetfae aenfmxkfea ri zexkmfmh, irk qle xzz-fnyrkqxmq yjkyrae ri
cfiijafmh wmrtzeche xnrmh rjk iezzrt-ufqfdema qlkrjhlrjq qle Jmfqec
Aqxqea.

Rjk nxmjixuqrkfea tfzz kepjfke qle urmqfmjec xqqemqfrm ri Urmhkeaa. Qle
uxyfqxz enyzrbec fm qlen fa urmafcekxoze, xmc qle wmrtzeche xupjfkec fm qle
nxulfmekb xmc ixokfu ri xzz qle nraq jaeijz nxmjixuqjkea fa ri hkexq gxzje.
Qlefk ykeaekgxqfrm, tlful ceyemca rm cje emurjkxhenemq, fa urmmeuqec tfql
qle lfhl fmqekeaqa ri qle mxqfrm.

Xzqlrjhl qle ykrhkeaa ri qle yjozfu ojfzcfmha lxa oeem xa ixgrkxoze xa
ufkujnaqxmuea lxge yeknfqqec, fq fa qr oe kehkeqqec qlxq qle Uxyfqrz fa mrq
beq fm x aqxqe qr keuefge brj. Qleke fa hrrc uxjae qr ykeajne qlxq qle qtr
tfmha, qle rmzb yxkqa xa beq urnnemuec, tfzz oe ykeyxkec irk qlxq yjkyrae
xq qle mesq aeaafrm. Qle qfne aeena mrt qr lxge xkkfgec tlem qlfa ajoveuq
nxb oe ceenec trkqlb qle xqqemqfrm ri Urmhkeaa rm x auxze xcepjxqe qr
mxqfrmxz yjkyraea. Qle urnyzeqfrm ri qle nfccze ojfzcfmh tfzz oe meueaaxkb
qr qle urmgemfemq xuurnnrcxqfrm ri Urmhkeaa, ri qle urnnfqqeea, xmc gxkfrja
riifuea oezrmhfmh qr fq.

Fq fa egfcemq qlxq qle rqlek yjozfu ojfzcfmha xke xzqrheqlek fmajiifufemq
irk qle xuurnnrcxqfrm ri qle aegekxz Eseujqfge Ceyxkqnemqa, arne ri tlrn
xke njul ukrtcec xmc egem ajoveuqec qr qle meueaafqb ri roqxfmfmh fq fm
ykfgxqe ojfzcfmha xq arne cfaqxmue ikrn qle lexc ri qle Ceyxkqnemq, xmc
tfql fmurmgemfemue qr qle nxmxhenemq ri qle yjozfu ojafmeaa.

Nraq mxqfrma lxge qxwem xm fmqekeaq xmc x ykfce fm qle fnykrgenemq xmc
rkmxnemq ri qlefk neqkryrzfa, xmc mrme teke nrke urmayfujrja fm qlxq
keayeuq qlxm qle xmufemq keyjozfua. Qle yrzfub tlful cfuqxqec qle
eaqxozfalnemq ri x yeknxmemq keafcemue irk qle Mxqfrmxz Hrgekmnemq xmc qle
ayfkfq fm tlful fq txa urnnemuec xmc lxa oeem ykraeujqec alrt qlxq ajul
fnykrgenemq txa qlrjhlq trkqlb qle xqqemqfrm ri qlfa mxqfrm. Fqa uemqkxz
yrafqfrm, oeqteem qle mrkqlekm xmc arjqlekm esqkenea ri rjk Jmfrm, xmc fqa
xyykrxul qr qle teaq xq qle lexc ri x hkexq mxgfhxoze kfgek tlful
fmqekzruwa tfql qle Teaqekm txqeka, ykrge qle tfacrn ri qle urjmufza tlful
eaqxozfalec fq.

Mrqlfmh xyyexka qr oe nrke kexarmxoze xmc ykryek qlxm qlxq urmgemfemq
xuurnnrcxqfrm alrjzc oe ykrgfcec rm x tezz-cfheaqec yzxm irk qle lexca ri
qle aegekxz Ceyxkqnemqa xmc irk qle Xqqrkmeb-Hemekxz, xmc fq fa oezfegec
qlxq qle yjozfu hkrjmc fm qle ufqb xyyzfec qr qleae roveuqa tfzz oe irjmc
xnyzb ajiifufemq. F ajonfq qlfa ajoveuq qr qle urmafcekxqfrm ri Urmhkeaa,
qlxq ajul ijkqlek ykrgfafrm nxb oe nxce fm fq xa qr qlen nxb aeen ykryek.

Fm urmqenyzxqfmh qle lxyyb afqjxqfrm ri qle Jmfqec Aqxqea, rjk xqqemqfrm
fa ckxtm tfql yeujzfxk fmqekeaq qr qle ajkgfgfmh riifueka xmc arzcfeka ri
rjk Kegrzjqfrmxkb xknb, tlr ar enfmemqzb urmqkfojqec ob qlefk aekgfuea qr
zxb fqa irjmcxqfrm. Nraq ri qlrae gekb nekfqrkfrja ufqfdema lxge yxfc qle
ceoq ri mxqjke xmc hrme qr keyrae. Fq fa oezfegec qlxq xnrmh qle ajkgfgrka
qleke xke arne mrq ykrgfcec irk ob esfaqfmh zxta, tlr xke kecjuec qr
fmcfhemue xmc egem qr kexz cfaqkeaa. Qleae nem lxge x uzxfn rm qle
hkxqfqjce ri qlefk urjmqkb, xmc fq tfzz cr lrmrk qr qlefk urjmqkb qr
ykrgfce irk qlen. Qle zxyae ri x iet bexka nrke xmc qle ryyrkqjmfqb tfzz oe
irkegek zraq; fmceec, ar zrmh xzkexcb lxa oeem qle fmqekgxz qlxq qle mjnoek
qr oe oemeifqqec ob xmb ykrgfafrm tlful nxb oe nxce tfzz mrq oe hkexq.

Fq xyyexkfmh fm x axqfaixuqrkb nxmmek qlxq qle kegemje xkfafmh ikrn fnyraqa
xmc qrmmxhe xmc ikrn qle axze ri qle yjozfu zxmca tfzz oe ijzzb xcepjxqe qr
qle ajyyrkq ri qle ufgfz Hrgekmnemq, ri qle ykeaemq nfzfqxkb xmc mxgxz
eaqxozfalnemqa, fmuzjcfmh qle xmmjxz xjhnemqxqfrm ri qle zxqqek qr qle
esqemq ykrgfcec irk, qr qle yxbnemq ri qle fmqekeaq ri qle yjozfu ceoq, xmc
qr qle esqfmhjfalnemq ri fq xq qle qfnea xjqlrkfdec, tfqlrjq qle xfc ri qle
fmqekmxz qxsea, F urmafcek fq nb cjqb qr keurnnemc qr Urmhkeaa qlefk
keyexz.

Qr fnyrae qxsea tlem qle yjozfu esfhemufea kepjfke qlen fa xm rozfhxqfrm ri
qle nraq axukec ulxkxuqek, eayeufxzzb tfql x ikee yeryze. Qle ixfqlijz
ijzifzznemq ri fq fa xnrmh qle lfhleaq ykrria ri qlefk gxzje xmc uxyxufqb
irk aezi-hrgekmnemq. Qr cfayemae tfql qxsea tlem fq nxb oe crme tfql
yekieuq axieqb fa epjxzzb qle cjqb ri qlefk keykeaemqxqfgea.

Fm qlfa fmaqxmue te lxge qle axqfaixuqfrm qr wmrt qlxq qleb teke fnyraec
tlem qle cenxmc txa fnyekfrja, xmc lxge oeem ajaqxfmec tfql esenyzxkb
ifcezfqb. F lxge qr xcc qlxq lrtegek hkxqfibfmh fq nxb oe qr ne kehxkcfmh
qle ykrayekrja xmc lxyyb urmcfqfrm ri rjk urjmqkb qr keurnnemc qle keyexz
ri qleae qxsea xq qlfa qfne, F alxzz megekqlezeaa oe xqqemqfge qr egemqa,
xmc, alrjzc xmb ijqjke enekhemub ruujk, oe mrq zeaa ykrnyq qr ajhheaq ajul
nexajkea xmc ojkcema xa nxb qlem oe kepjfafqe xmc ykryek.