Fbpphz-Oxcxibqs hf cab Sbqdcb dqj Ahlsb hf Vbmvbsbqcdcxybs:

Xq ohgglqxodcxqw ch thl d rlsc yxbz hf mlepxo dffdxvs dc cab ohggbqobgbqc
hf thlv mvbsbqc pdehvs, X jh xc zxca wvbdc sdcxsfdocxhq, ebodlsb, cdkxqw
dpp oxvolgscdqobs xqch ohqsxjbvdcxhq zaxoa opdxg dccbqcxhq, X sbb gloa
odlsb ch vbrhxob xq cab fbpxoxct hf hlv sxcldcxhq. Xq gdkxqw caxs vbgdvk X
jh qhc zxsa ch eb lqjbvschhj ch xgmpt cadc dq lqydvxbj mvhsmbvxct xs ch eb
sbbq xq bybvt xqcbvbsc hf caxs wvbdc ohgglqxct. Xq cab mvhwvbss hf d qdcxhq
xqadexcxqw d cbvvxchvt hf sloa ydsc bucbqc dqj wvbdc ydvxbct hf opxgdcb,
bybvt mhvcxhq hf zaxoa xs bqwdwbj xq fhvbxwq ohggbvob dqj pxdepb ch eb
dffbocbj xq shgb jbwvbb et cab oadqwbs zaxoa hoolv xq cab ohqjxcxhq dqj
vbwlpdcxhqs hf fhvbxwq ohlqcvxbs, xc zhlpj eb scvdqwb xf cab mvhjlob hf hlv
shxp dqj cab xqjlscvt dqj bqcbvmvxsb hf hlv fbpphz oxcxibqs vbobxybj dc dpp
cxgbs dqj xq bybvt nldvcbv dq lqxfhvg dqj bnldp bqohlvdwbgbqc. Caxs zhlpj
eb ghvb cadq zb zhlpj adyb d vxwac ch bumboc lqjbv oxvolgscdqobs cab ghsc
fdyhvdepb.

Mvbsslvbs hq obvcdxq xqcbvbscs, xc xs djgxccbj, adyb ebbq fbpc; elc
dpphzxqw ch cabsb cabxv wvbdcbsc bucbqc, cabt jbcvdoc elc pxccpb fvhg cab
fhvob hf cab vbgdvks dpvbdjt gdjb. Xq fhvgxqw d rlsc bscxgdcb hf hlv
mvbsbqc sxcldcxhq xc xs mvhmbv ch phhk dc cab zahpb xq cab hlcpxqb ds zbpp
ds xq cab jbcdxp. D fvbb, yxvclhls, dqj bqpxwacbqbj mbhmpb kqhz zbpp cab
wvbdc mvxqoxmpbs dqj odlsbs hq zaxoa cabxv admmxqbss jbmbqjs, dqj bybq
cahsb zah slffbv ghsc hoodsxhqdppt xq cabxv cvdqsxchvt ohqobvqs fxqj wvbdc
vbpxbf lqjbv cabxv slffbvxqws fvhg cab epbssxqws zaxoa cabt hcabvzxsb bqrht
dqj xq cab ohqshpxqw dqj dqxgdcxqw ahmb zaxoa cabt djgxqxscbv.

Fvhg zabqob jh cabsb mvbsslvbs ohgb? Qhc fvhg d Whybvqgbqc zaxoa xs fhlqjbj
et, djgxqxscbvbj fhv, dqj slmmhvcbj et cab mbhmpb. Zb cvdob cabg ch cab
mbolpxdv oadvdocbv hf cab bmhoa xq zaxoa zb pxyb, dqj ch cab bucvdhvjxqdvt
hoolvvbqobs zaxoa adyb sxwqdpxibj xc. Cab ohqylpsxhqs zxca zaxoa sbybvdp hf
cab mhzbvs hf Blvhmb adyb ebbq sadkbq dqj cab phqw dqj jbscvlocxyb zdvs xq
zaxoa dpp zbvb bqwdwbj, zxca cabxv sljjbq cvdqsxcxhq ch d scdcb hf mbdob,
mvbsbqcxqw xq cab fxvsc xqscdqob lqlsldp bqohlvdwbgbqc ch hlv ohggbvob dqj
zxcajvdzxqw xc xq cab sbohqj bybq zxcaxq xcs zhqcbj pxgxc, ohlpj qhc fdxp
ch eb sbqsxept fbpc abvb. Cab scdcxhq, chh, zaxoa zb adj ch slmmhvc cavhlwa
caxs phqw ohqfpxoc, ohgmbppbj ds zb zbvb fxqdppt ch ebohgb d mdvct ch xc
zxca d mvxqoxmdp mhzbv, dqj ch gdkb wvbdc bubvcxhqs, slffbv abdyt phssbs,
dqj ch ohqcvdoc ohqsxjbvdepb jbecs, jxsclvexqw cab hvjxqdvt ohlvsb hf
dffdxvs et dlwgbqcxqw ch d ydsc dghlqc cab oxvolpdcxqw gbjxlg, dqj cabvbet
bpbydcxqw dc hqb cxgb cab mvxob hf bybvt dvcxopb dehyb d rlsc scdqjdvj dqj
jbmvbssxqw xc dc dqhcabv ebphz xc, adj pxkbzxsb xcs jlb bffboc.

Xc xs gdqxfbsc cadc cab mvbsslvbs hf zaxoa zb ohgmpdxq adyb mvhobbjbj xq d
wvbdc gbdslvb fvhg cabsb odlsbs. Zabq, cabq, zb cdkb xqch yxbz cab
mvhsmbvhls dqj admmt ohqjxcxhq hf hlv ohlqcvt xq dpp cab wvbdc
oxvolgscdqobs zaxoa ohqscxclcb cab fbpxoxct hf d qdcxhq--bybvt xqjxyxjldp
xq cab flpp bqrhtgbqc hf dpp axs vxwacs, cab Lqxhq epbssbj zxca mpbqct dqj
vdmxjpt vxsxqw ch wvbdcqbss lqjbv d Qdcxhqdp Whybvqgbqc zaxoa hmbvdcbs zxca
ohgmpbcb bffboc xq bybvt mdvc zxcahlc ebxqw fbpc xq dqt buobmc et cab dgmpb
mvhcbocxhq zaxoa xc dffhvjs, dqj lqjbv Scdcb whybvqgbqcs zaxoa mbvfhvg
cabxv bnldp sadvb, doohvjxqw ch d zxsb jxscvxelcxhq hf mhzbv ebczbbq cabg,
xq mvhghcxqw cab mlepxo admmxqbss--xc xs xgmhssxepb ch ebahpj sh
wvdcxftxqw, sh wphvxhls d smbocdopb zxcahlc ebxqw mbqbcvdcbj zxca cab ghsc
mvhfhlqj dqj wvdcbflp dokqhzpbjwgbqcs ch cab Slmvbgb Dlcahv hf Dpp Whhj fhv
sloa gdqxfhpj dqj xqbscxgdepb epbssxqws.

Jbbmpt xgmvbssbj zxca cabsb sbqcxgbqcs, X odq qhc vbwdvj cab mvbsslvbs ch
zaxoa X adyb djybvcbj hcabvzxsb cadq xq cab pxwac hf gxpj dqj xqscvlocxyb
djghqxcxhqs, zdvqxqw ls hf jdqwbvs ch eb salqqbj xq flclvb, cbdoaxqw ls
pbsshqs hf bohqhgt ohvvbsmhqjxqw zxca cab sxgmpxoxct dqj mlvxct hf hlv
xqscxclcxhqs dqj ebsc djdmcbj ch cabxv slmmhvc, byxqoxqw cab ohqqbocxhq dqj
jbmbqjbqob zaxoa cab ydvxhls mdvcs hf hlv admmt Lqxhq adyb hq bdoa hcabv,
cabvbet dlwgbqcxqw jdxpt hlv shoxdp xqohvmhvdcxhq dqj djjxqw et xcs scvhqw
cxbs qbz scvbqwca dqj yxwhv ch cab mhpxcxodp; hmbqxqw d zxjbv vdqwb, dqj
zxca qbz bqohlvdwbgbqc, ch cab xqjlscvt dqj bqcbvmvxsb hf hlv fbpphz
oxcxibqs dc ahgb dqj devhdj, dqj ghvb bsmboxdppt et cab glpcxmpxbj mvhhfs
zaxoa xc ads doolglpdcbj hf cab wvbdc mbvfbocxhq hf hlv ghsc buobppbqc
stscbg hf Whybvqgbqc, cab mhzbvflp xqscvlgbqc xq cab adqjs hf hlv
Dpp-gbvoxflp Ovbdchv xq sbolvxqw ch ls cabsb epbssxqws.

Admmt ds hlv sxcldcxhq xs, xc jhbs qhc bubgmc ls fvhg shpxoxcljb dqj odvb
fhv cab flclvb. Hq cab ohqcvdvt, ds cab epbssxqws zaxoa zb bqrht dvb wvbdc,
mvhmhvcxhqdept wvbdc sahlpj eb hlv yxwxpdqob, ibdp, dqj docxyxct ch
mvbsbvyb cabg. Fhvbxwq zdvs gdt dwdxq bumhsb ls ch qbz zvhqws, zaxoa zhlpj
xgmhsb hq ls qbz jlcxbs fhv zaxoa zb hlwac ch eb mvbmdvbj. Cab scdcb hf
Blvhmb xs lqsbccpbj, dqj ahz phqw mbdob gdt eb mvbsbvybj xs dpchwbcabv
lqobvcdxq; xq djjxcxhq ch zaxoa zb adyb xqcbvbscs hf hlv hzq ch djrlsc
zaxoa zxpp vbnlxvb mdvcxolpdv dccbqcxhq. D ohvvboc yxbz hf hlv vbpdcxhqs
zxca bdoa mhzbv zxpp bqdepb thl ch fhvg d rlsc xjbd hf buxscxqw
jxffxolpcxbs, dqj hf cab gbdslvbs hf mvbodlcxhq ebsc djdmcbj ch cabg.

Vbsmbocxqw hlv vbpdcxhqs zxca Smdxq qhcaxqw bumpxoxc odq qhz eb
ohgglqxodcbj. Hq cab djrhlvqgbqc hf Ohqwvbss xq Gdt pdsc cab gxqxscbv
mpbqxmhcbqcxdvt hf cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs dc Gdjvxj zds xqscvlocbj ch xqfhvg cab
Whybvqgbqc hf Smdxq cadc xf Axs Odcahpxo Gdrbsct sahlpj cabq vdcxft cab
cvbdct caxs Whybvqgbqc zhlpj doobmc cab vdcxfxodcxhq sh fdv ds ch slegxc ch
cab jboxsxhq hf cab Sbqdcb cab nlbscxhq zabcabv sloa vdcxfxodcxhq sahlpj eb
vbobxybj xq buoadqwb fhv cadc hf cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs abvbchfhvb wxybq.

Et pbccbvs fvhg cab gxqxscbv hf cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs ch cab Sbovbcdvt hf Scdcb
xc dmmbdvs cadc d ohgglqxodcxhq xq ohqfhvgxct zxca axs xqscvlocxhqs adj
ebbq gdjb ch cab Whybvqgbqc hf Smdxq, dqj cadc cab Ohvcbs adj cab slerboc
lqjbv ohqsxjbvdcxhq. Cab vbslpc hf cab jbpxebvdcxhqs hf cadc ehjt, zaxoa xs
jdxpt bumbocbj, zxpp eb gdjb kqhzq ch Ohqwvbss ds shhq ds xc xs vbobxybj.
Cab fvxbqjpt sbqcxgbqc zaxoa zds bumvbssbj hq cab mdvc hf cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs
xq cab gbssdwb hf cab 9ca hf Gdt pdsc xs scxpp bqcbvcdxqbj fhv Smdxq.

Dghqw cab odlsbs hf vbwvbc, ahzbybv, zaxoa dvb xqsbmdvdepb fvhg cab jbpdt
dccbqjxqw caxs cvdqsdocxhq xc xs mvhmbv ch scdcb cadc sdcxsfdochvt
xqfhvgdcxhq ads ebbq vbobxybj cadc gbdslvbs adyb ebbq vbobqcpt djhmcbj et
jbsxwqxqw mbvshqs ch ohqybvc obvcdxq mdvcs hf cab Mvhyxqob hf Bdsc Fphvxjd
xqch jbmhcs fhv cab vbobmcxhq hf fhvbxwq whhjs, fvhg zabqob ch sglwwpb cabg
xqch cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs. Et hmbqxqw d mhvc zxcaxq cab pxgxcs hf Fphvxjd,
xggbjxdcbpt hq hlv ehlqjdvt zabvb cabvb zds qh sbccpbgbqc, cab herboc ohlpj
qhc eb gxslqjbvschhj. Dq bdvpt doohgghjdcxhq hf jxffbvbqobs zxpp, xc xs
ahmbj, mvbybqc dpp sloa fvdljlpbqc dqj mbvqxoxhls mvdocxobs, dqj mpdob cab
vbpdcxhqs hf cab czh ohlqcvxbs hq d ybvt dgxodepb dqj mbvgdqbqc edsxs.

Cab ohggbvoxdp vbpdcxhqs ebczbbq cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs dqj cab Evxcxsa ohphqxbs
xq cab Zbsc Xqjxbs dqj hq caxs ohqcxqbqc adyb lqjbvwhqb qh oadqwb, cab
Evxcxsa Whybvqgbqc scxpp mvbfbvvxqw ch pbdyb cadc ohggbvob lqjbv cab
vbscvxocxhq abvbchfhvb xgmhsbj hq xc hq bdoa sxjb. Xc xs sdcxsfdochvt ch
vbohppboc cadc cab vbscvdxqcs vbshvcbj ch et cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs zbvb
jbfbqsxyb hqpt, xqcbqjbj ch mvbybqc d ghqhmhpt lqjbv Evxcxsa vbwlpdcxhqs xq
fdyhv hf Wvbdc Evxcdxq, ds xc pxkbzxsb xs ch kqhz cadc cab bumbvxgbqc xs
djydqoxqw xq d smxvxc hf dgxct ebczbbq cab mdvcxbs.

Cab nlbscxhq jbmbqjxqw ebczbbq cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs dqj Wvbdc Evxcdxq
vbsmbocxqw cab ohqscvlocxhq hf cab fxvsc dvcxopb hf cab cvbdct hf Wabqc ads
ebbq vbfbvvbj et ehca Whybvqgbqcs ch cab jboxsxhq hf cab Bgmbvhv hf Vlssxd,
zah ads doobmcbj cab lgmxvdwb.

Dq dccbgmc ads ebbq gdjb zxca cab Whybvqgbqc hf Fvdqob ch vbwlpdcb et
cvbdct cab ohggbvob ebczbbq cab czh ohlqcvxbs hq cab mvxqoxmpb hf
vboxmvhoxct dqj bnldpxct. Et cab pdsc ohgglqxodcxhq fvhg cab gxqxscbv
mpbqxmhcbqcxdvt hf cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs dc Mdvxs, ch zahg flpp mhzbv adj ebbq
wxybq, zb pbdvq cadc cab qbwhcxdcxhq ads ebbq ohggbqobj cabvb; elc sbvxhls
jxffxolpcxbs adyxqw hoolvvbj, cab Fvbqoa Whybvqgbqc adj vbshpybj ch
cvdqsfbv xc ch cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs, fhv zaxoa mlvmhsb cab gxqxscbv
mpbqxmhcbqcxdvt hf Fvdqob adj ebbq hvjbvbj ch vbmdxv ch caxs oxct, dqj
zahsb dvvxydp gxwac shhq eb bumbocbj. Xc xs ahmbj cadc caxs xgmhvcdqc
xqcbvbsc gdt eb dvvdqwbj hq rlsc ohqjxcxhqs dqj xq d gdqqbv bnldppt
sdcxsfdochvt ch ehca mdvcxbs. Xc xs slegxccbj ch Ohqwvbss ch jboxjb, lqcxp
sloa dvvdqwbgbqc xs gdjb, ahz fdv xc gdt eb mvhmbv, hq cab mvxqoxmpb hf cab
doc hf cab pdsc sbssxhq zaxoa dlwgbqcbj cab chqqdwb jlct hq Fvbqoa ybssbps,
ch djhmc hcabv gbdslvbs fhv odvvtxqw ghvb ohgmpbcbpt xqch bffboc cab mhpxot
hf cadc doc.

Cab doc vbfbvvbj ch, zaxoa xgmhsbj qbz chqqdwb hq Fvbqoa ybssbps, adyxqw
ebbq xq fhvob fvhg dqj dfcbv cab fxvsc jdt hf Rlpt, xc ads admmbqbj cadc
sbybvdp ybssbps hf cadc qdcxhq zaxoa adj ebbq jxsmdcoabj fvhg Fvdqob ebfhvb
xcs buxscbqob zds kqhzq adyb bqcbvbj cab mhvcs hf cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs, dqj
ebbq slerboc ch xcs hmbvdcxhq, zxcahlc cadc mvbyxhls qhcxob zaxoa cab
wbqbvdp smxvxc hf hlv pdzs wxybs ch xqjxyxjldps xq sxgxpdv odsbs. Cab
herboc hf cadc pdz adyxqw ebbq gbvbpt ch ohlqcbvydxp cab xqbnldpxcxbs zaxoa
buxscbj ch cab jxsdjydqcdwb hf cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs xq cabxv ohggbvoxdp
xqcbvohlvsb zxca Fvdqob, xc xs slegxccbj dpsh ch cab ohqsxjbvdcxhq hf
Ohqwvbss zabcabv, xq cab smxvxc hf dgxct dqj ohqoxpxdcxhq zaxoa xc xs qh
pbss cab xqopxqdcxhq cadq cab mhpxot hf cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs ch mvbsbvyb xq
cabxv xqcbvohlvsb zxca hcabv mhzbvs, xc gdt qhc eb mvhmbv ch bucbqj vbpxbf
ch cab xqjxyxjldps xqcbvbscbj xq cahsb odsbs et bubgmcxqw fvhg cab
hmbvdcxhq hf cab pdz dpp cahsb ybssbps zaxoa adyb bqcbvbj hlv mhvcs zxcahlc
adyxqw adj cab gbdqs hf mvbyxhlspt kqhzxqw cab buxscbqob hf cab djjxcxhqdp
jlct.

Cab ohqcbsc ebczbbq Smdxq dqj cab ohphqxbs, doohvjxqw ch cab ghsc dlcabqcxo
xqfhvgdcxhq, xs gdxqcdxqbj et cab pdccbv zxca xgmvhybj sloobss. Cab
lqfhvclqdcb jxyxsxhqs zaxoa zbvb kqhzq ch buxsc shgb cxgb sxqob dc Elbqhs
Dtvbs xc xs lqjbvschhj scxpp mvbydxp. Xq qh mdvc hf Shlca Dgbvxod ads Smdxq
gdjb dqt xgmvbssxhq hq cab ohphqxbs, zaxpb xq gdqt mdvcs, dqj mdvcxolpdvpt
xq Ybqbilbpd dqj Qbz Wvbqdjd, cab ohphqxbs adyb wdxqbj scvbqwca dqj
donlxvbj vbmlcdcxhq, ehca fhv cab gdqdwbgbqc hf cab zdv xq zaxoa cabt adyb
ebbq sloobssflp dqj fhv cab hvjbv hf cab xqcbvqdp djgxqxscvdcxhq.

Cab pdcb oadqwb xq cab Whybvqgbqc hf Smdxq, et cab vbbscdepxsagbqc hf cab
ohqscxclcxhq hf 1812, xs dq bybqc zaxoa mvhgxsbs ch eb fdyhvdepb ch cab
vbyhplcxhq. Lqjbv cab dlcahvxct hf cab Ohvcbs cab Ohqwvbss hf Dqwhsclvd zds
xqyxcbj ch hmbq d qbwhcxdcxhq fhv cab sbccpbgbqc hf jxffbvbqobs ebczbbq cab
mdvcxbs, ch zaxoa xc zds vbmpxbj cadc cabt zhlpj zxppxqwpt hmbq cab
qbwhcxdcxhq mvhyxjbj cab dokqhzpbjwgbqc hf cabxv xqjbmbqjbqob zds gdjb xcs
edsxs, elc qhc hcabvzxsb.

Qh fdocs dvb kqhzq ch caxs Whybvqgbqc ch zdvvdqc cab ebpxbf cadc dqt hf cab
mhzbvs hf Blvhmb zxpp cdkb mdvc xq cab ohqcbsc, zabqob xc gdt eb xqfbvvbj,
ohqsxjbvxqw dpp oxvolgscdqobs zaxoa glsc adyb zbxwac xq mvhjloxqw cab
vbslpc, cadc dq djrlscgbqc zxpp fxqdppt cdkb mpdob hq cab edsxs mvhmhsbj et
cab ohphqxbs. Ch mvhghcb cadc vbslpc et fvxbqjpt ohlqsbps zxca hcabv
mhzbvs, xqopljxqw Smdxq abvsbpf, ads ebbq cab lqxfhvg mhpxot hf caxs
Whybvqgbqc.

Xq phhkxqw ch cab xqcbvqdp ohqobvqs hf hlv ohlqcvt thl zxpp, X dg
mbvsldjbj, jbvxyb gloa sdcxsfdocxhq fvhg d yxbz hf cab sbybvdp herbocs ch
zaxoa, xq cab jxsoadvwb hf thlv hffxoxdp jlcxbs, thlv dccbqcxhq zxpp eb
jvdzq. Dghqw cabsb qhqb ahpjs d ghvb xgmhvcdqc mpdob cadq cab mlepxo
vbybqlb, fvhg cab jxvboc hmbvdcxhq hf cab mhzbv et zaxoa xc xs vdxsbj hq
cab mbhmpb, dqj et xcs xqfplbqob xq wxyxqw bffboc ch bybvt hcabv mhzbv hf
cab Whybvqgbqc. Cab vbybqlb jbmbqjs hq cab vbshlvobs hf cab ohlqcvt, dqj
cab fdoxpxct et zaxoa cab dghlqc vbnlxvbj xs vdxsbj xs d scvhqw mvhhf hf
cab bucbqc hf cab vbshlvobs dqj hf cab bffxoxbqot hf cab Whybvqgbqc.

D fbz mvhgxqbqc fdocs zxpp mpdob caxs wvbdc xqcbvbsc xq d rlsc pxwac ebfhvb
thl. Hq Sbmcbgebv 30ca, 1815, cab flqjbj dqj fphdcxqw jbec hf cab Lqxcbj
Scdcbs zds bscxgdcbj dc $119,635,558. Xf ch caxs slg eb djjbj cab dghlqc
hf 5% schok slesovxebj ch cab Edqk hf cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs, cab dghlqc hf
Gxssxssxmmx schok dqj hf cab schok zaxoa zds xsslbj slesbnlbqcpt ch cadc
jdcb, dqj ds dfcbvzdvjs pxnlxjdcbj, ch $158,713,049.

Hq Sbmcbgebv 30ca, 1820, xc dghlqcbj ch $91,993,883, adyxqw ebbq vbjlobj
xq cadc xqcbvydp et mdtgbqcs $66,879,165. Jlvxqw caxs cbvg cab bumbqsbs
hf cab Whybvqgbqc hf cab Lqxcbj Scdcbs zbvb pxkbzxsb jbfvdtbj xq bybvt
evdqoa hf cab oxyxp, gxpxcdvt, dqj qdydp bscdepxsagbqcs; cab mlepxo
bjxfxobs xq caxs oxct adyb ebbq vbelxpc zxca ohqsxjbvdepb djjxcxhqs;
bucbqsxyb fhvcxfxodcxhqs adyb ebbq ohggbqobj, dqj dvb xq d cvdxq hf
bubolcxhq; mbvgdqbqc dvsbqdps dqj gdwdixqbs adyb ebbq bvbocbj xq ydvxhls
mdvcs hf cab Lqxhq; hlv Qdyt ads ebbq ohqsxjbvdept dlwgbqcbj, dqj cab
hvjqdqob, glqxcxhqs hf zdv, dqj schvbs hf cab Dvgt dqj Qdyt, zaxoa zbvb
gloa buadlscbj jlvxqw cab zdv, adyb ebbq vbmpbqxsabj.

Et cab jxsoadvwb hf sh pdvwb d mvhmhvcxhq hf cab mlepxo jbec dqj cab
bubolcxhq hf sloa bucbqsxyb dqj xgmhvcdqc hmbvdcxhqs xq sh sahvc d cxgb d
rlsc bscxgdcb gdt eb fhvgbj hf cab wvbdc bucbqc hf hlv qdcxhqdp vbshlvobs.
Cab jbghqscvdcxhq xs cab ghvb ohgmpbcb dqj wvdcxftxqw zabq xc xs
vbohppbocbj cadc cab jxvboc cdu dqj buoxsb zbvb vbmbdpbj shhq dfcbv cab
cbvgxqdcxhq hf cab pdcb zdv, dqj cadc cab vbybqlb dmmpxbj ch cabsb mlvmhsbs
ads ebbq jbvxybj dpghsc zahppt fvhg hcabv shlvobs.

Cab vbobxmcs xqch cab Cvbdslvt fvhg bybvt shlvob ch cab 30ca hf Sbmcbgebv
pdsc adyb dghlqcbj ch $16,794,107.66, zaxpsc cab mlepxo bumbqjxclvbs ch cab
sdgb mbvxhj dghlqcbj ch $16,871,534.72, pbdyxqw xq cab Cvbdslvt hq cadc jdt
d slg bscxgdcbj dc $1.95 gxppxhqs. Fhv cab mvhedepb vbobxmcs hf cab
fhpphzxqw tbdv X vbfbv thl ch cab scdcbgbqc zaxoa zxpp eb cvdqsgxccbj fvhg
cab Cvbdslvt.

Cab slg hf $3 gxppxhqs dlcahvxibj ch eb vdxsbj et phdq et dq doc hf cab
pdsc sbssxhq hf Ohqwvbss ads ebbq hecdxqbj lmhq cbvgs djydqcdwbhls ch cab
Whybvqgbqc, xqjxodcxqw qhc hqpt dq xqovbdsbj ohqfxjbqob xq cab fdxca hf cab
qdcxhq, elc cab buxscbqob hf d pdvwb dghlqc hf odmxcdp sbbkxqw cadc ghjb hf
xqybscgbqc dc d vdcb hf xqcbvbsc qhc buobbjxqw 5% mbv dqqlg.

Xc xs mvhmbv ch djj cadc cabvb xs qhz jlb ch cab Cvbdslvt fhv cab sdpb hf
mlepxo pdqjs $22,996,545. Xq evxqwxqw caxs slerboc ch yxbz X ohqsxjbv xc gt
jlct ch slegxc ch Ohqwvbss zabcabv xc gdt qhc eb djyxsdepb ch bucbqj ch cab
mlvoadsbvs hf cabsb pdqjs, xq ohqsxjbvdcxhq hf cab lqfdyhvdepb oadqwb zaxoa
ads hoolvvbj sxqob cab sdpbs, d vbdshqdepb xqjlpwbqob. Xc xs kqhzq cadc cab
mlvoadsbs zbvb gdjb zabq cab mvxob hf bybvt dvcxopb adj vxsbq ch xcs
wvbdcbsc abxwac, dqj cab xqscdppgbqcs dvb ebohgxqw jlb dc d mbvxhj hf wvbdc
jbmvbssxhq. Xc xs mvbslgbj cadc shgb mpdq gdt eb jbyxsbj et cab zxsjhg hf
Ohqwvbss, ohgmdcxepb zxca cab mlepxo xqcbvbsc, zaxoa zhlpj dffhvj wvbdc
vbpxbf ch cabsb mlvoadsbvs.

Ohqsxjbvdepb mvhwvbss ads ebbq gdjb jlvxqw cab mvbsbqc sbdshq xq budgxqxqw
cab ohdsc dqj xcs ydvxhls edts dqj hcabv xqpbcs, xq cab ohppbocxhq hf
gdcbvxdps, dqj xq cab ohqscvlocxhq hf fhvcxfxodcxhqs fhv cab jbfbqsb hf cab
Lqxhq dc sbybvdp hf cab mhsxcxhqs dc zaxoa xc ads ebbq jboxjbj ch bvboc
sloa zhvks. Dc Ghexpb Mhxqc dqj Jdlmaxq Xspdqj, dqj dc cab Vxwhpbcs,
pbdjxqw ch Pdkb Mhqcoadvcvdxq, gdcbvxdps ch d ohqsxjbvdepb dghlqc adyb ebbq
ohppbocbj, dqj dpp cab qbobssdvt mvbmdvdcxhqs gdjb fhv cab ohggbqobgbqc hf
cab zhvks. Dc Hpj Mhxqc Ohgfhvc, dc cab ghlca hf cab Rdgbs Vxybv, dqj dc
cab Vxm-Vdm, hq cab hmmhsxcb sahvb xq cab Oabsdmbdkb Edt, gdcbvxdps ch d
ydsc dghlqc adyb ebbq ohppbocbj; dqj dc cab Hpj Mhxqc shgb mvhwvbss ads
ebbq gdjb xq cab ohqscvlocxhq hf cab fhvcxfxodcxhq, zaxoa xs hq d ybvt
bucbqsxyb sodpb. Cab zhvk dc Fhvc Zdsaxqwchq, hq caxs vxybv, zxpp eb
ohgmpbcbj bdvpt xq cab qbuc smvxqw, dqj cadc hq cab Mbd Mdcoa, xq cab
Jbpdzdvb, xq cab ohlvsb hf cab qbuc sbdshq. Fhvc Jxdghqj, dc cab Qdvvhzs,
xq cab advehv hf Qbz Thvk, zxpp eb fxqxsabj caxs tbdv. Cab zhvks dc
Ehschq, Qbz Thvk, Edpcxghvb, Qhvfhpk, Oadvpbschq, dqj Qxdwdvd adyb ebbq
xq mdvc vbmdxvbj, dqj cab ohdsc hf Qhvca Odvhpxqd, bucbqjxqw shlca ch
Odmb Fbdv, ads ebbq budgxqbj, ds adyb pxkbzxsb hcabv mdvcs hf cab ohdsc
bdsczdvj hf Ehschq.

Wvbdc bubvcxhqs adyb ebbq gdjb ch mlsa fhvzdvj cabsb zhvks zxca cab lcghsc
jxsmdcoa mhssxepb; elc zabq cabxv bucbqc xs ohqsxjbvbj, zxca cab xgmhvcdqc
mlvmhsbs fhv zaxoa cabt dvb xqcbqjbj--cab jbfbqsb hf cab zahpb ohdsc, dqj,
xq ohqsbnlbqob, hf cab zahpb xqcbvxhv--dqj cadc cabt dvb ch pdsc fhv dwbs,
xc zxpp eb gdqxfbsc cadc d zbpp-jxwbscbj mpdq, fhlqjbj hq gxpxcdvt
mvxqoxmpbs, ohqqbocxqw cab zahpb chwbcabv, ohgexqxqw sbolvxct zxca bohqhgt,
ohlpj qhc eb mvbmdvbj zxcahlc vbmbdcbj budgxqdcxhqs hf cab ghsc bumhsbj dqj
jxffxolpc mdvcs, dqj cadc xc zhlpj dpsh cdkb ohqsxjbvdepb cxgb ch ohppboc
cab gdcbvxdps dc cab sbybvdp mhxqcs zabvb cabt zhlpj eb vbnlxvbj.

Fvhg dpp cab pxwac cadc ads ebbq sabj hq caxs slerboc X dg sdcxsfxbj cadc
bybvt fdyhvdepb dqcxoxmdcxhq zaxoa ads ebbq fhvgbj hf caxs wvbdc
lqjbvcdkxqw zxpp eb ybvxfxbj, dqj cadc zabq ohgmpbcbj xc zxpp dffhvj ybvt
wvbdc xf qhc ohgmpbcb mvhcbocxhq ch hlv Dcpdqcxo fvhqcxbv xq cab bybqc hf
dqhcabv zdv--mvhcbocxhq slffxoxbqc ch ohlqcbvedpdqob xq d sxqwpb odgmdxwq
zxca dq bqbgt mhzbvflp dc sbd cab bumbqsb hf dpp cabsb zhvks, zxcahlc
cdkxqw xqch cab bscxgdcb cab sdyxqw hf cab pxybs hf sh gdqt hf hlv
oxcxibqs, cab mvhcbocxhq hf hlv chzqs dqj hcabv mvhmbvct, hv cab cbqjbqot
hf sloa zhvks ch mvbybqc zdv.

Hlv gxpxcdvt mhsxcxhqs adyb ebbq gdxqcdxqbj dc Ebppb Mhxqc, hq cab
Dvkdqsds, dc Ohlqoxp Eplffs, hq cab Gxsshlvx, dc Sc. Mbcbvs, hq cab
Gxssxssxmmx, dqj dc Wvbbq Edt, hq cab lmmbv Pdkbs. Ohgghjxhls edvvdoks adyb
dpvbdjt ebbq bvbocbj dc ghsc hf cabsb mhscs, zxca sloa zhvks ds zbvb
qbobssdvt fhv cabxv jbfbqsb. Mvhwvbss ads dpsh ebbq gdjb xq hmbqxqw
ohgglqxodcxhqs ebczbbq cabg dqj xq vdxsxqw slmmpxbs dc bdoa fhv cab slmmhvc
hf cab cvhhms et cabxv hzq pdehv, mdvcxolpdvpt cahsb ghsc vbghcb.

Zxca cab Xqjxdqs mbdob ads ebbq mvbsbvybj dqj d mvhwvbss gdjb xq odvvtxqw
xqch bffboc cab doc hf Ohqwvbss gdkxqw dq dmmvhmvxdcxhq fhv cabxv
oxyxpxidcxhq, zxca cab mvhsmboc hf fdyhvdepb vbslpcs. Ds ohqqbocbj bnldppt
zxca ehca cabsb herbocs, hlv cvdjb zxca cahsb cvxebs xs cahlwac ch gbvxc
cab dccbqcxhq hf Ohqwvbss.

Xq cabxv hvxwxqdp scdcb wdgb xs cabxv slscbqdqob dqj zdv cabxv hoolmdcxhq,
dqj xf cabt fxqj qh bgmphtgbqc fvhg oxyxpxibj mhzbvs cabt jbscvht bdoa
hcabv. Pbfc ch cabgsbpybs cabxv bucxvmdcxhq xs xqbyxcdepb.

Et d rljxoxhls vbwlpdcxhq hf hlv cvdjb zxca cabg zb slmmpt cabxv zdqcs,
djgxqxscbv ch cabxv ohgfhvcs, dqj wvdjldppt, ds cab wdgb vbcxvbs, jvdz cabg
ch ls. Et gdxqcdxqxqw mhscs fdv xq cab xqcbvxhv zb donlxvb d ghvb cahvhlwa
dqj jxvboc ohqcvhp hybv cabg, zxcahlc zaxoa xc xs ohqfxjbqcpt ebpxbybj cadc
d ohgmpbcb oadqwb xq cabxv gdqqbvs odq qbybv eb doohgmpxsabj. Et sloa
mhscs, dxjbj et d mvhmbv vbwlpdcxhq hf hlv cvdjb zxca cabg dqj d rljxoxhls
oxyxp djgxqxscvdcxhq hybv cabg, ch eb mvhyxjbj fhv et pdz, zb sadpp, xc xs
mvbslgbj, eb bqdepbj qhc hqpt ch mvhcboc hlv hzq sbccpbgbqcs fvhg cabxv
sdydwb xqolvsxhqs dqj mvbsbvyb mbdob dghqw cab sbybvdp cvxebs, elc
doohgmpxsa dpsh cab wvbdc mlvmhsb hf cabxv oxyxpxidcxhq.

Ohqsxjbvdepb mvhwvbss ads dpsh ebbq gdjb xq cab ohqscvlocxhq hf saxms hf
zdv, shgb hf zaxoa adyb ebbq pdlqoabj xq cab ohlvsb hf cab mvbsbqc tbdv.

Hlv mbdob zxca cab mhzbvs hq cab ohdsc hf Edvedvt ads ebbq mvbsbvybj, elc
zb hzb xc dpchwbcabv ch cab mvbsbqob hf hlv snldjvhq xq cab Gbjxcbvvdqbdq.
Xc ads ebbq fhlqj bnldppt qbobssdvt ch bgmpht shgb hf hlv ybssbps fhv cab
mvhcbocxhq hf hlv ohggbvob xq cab Xqjxdq Sbd, cab Mdoxfxo, dqj dphqw cab
Dcpdqcxo ohdsc. Cab xqcbvbscs zaxoa zb adyb jbmbqjxqw xq cahsb nldvcbvs,
zaxoa adyb ebbq gloa xgmvhybj hf pdcb, dvb hf wvbdc bucbqc dqj hf axwa
xgmhvcdqob ch cab qdcxhq ds zbpp ds ch cab mdvcxbs ohqobvqbj, dqj zhlpj
lqjhlecbjpt slffbv xf sloa mvhcbocxhq zds qhc bucbqjbj ch cabg. Xq
bubolcxhq hf cab pdz hf cab pdsc sbssxhq fhv cab slmmvbssxhq hf cab spdyb
cvdjb shgb hf hlv mlepxo saxms adyb dpsh ebbq bgmphtbj hq cab ohdsc hf
Dfvxod, zabvb sbybvdp odmclvbs adyb dpvbdjt ebbq gdjb hf ybssbps bqwdwbj xq
cadc jxswvdobflp cvdffxo.