Odqqrs-Mbpbndke ro pld Edkgpd gky Lrved ro Xduxdedkpgpbcde:

Pld uxrfxdee ro rvx googbxe ebkmd pld qgep edeebrk lge tddk evml ge igh
wvepqh td mqgbidy gky daudmpdy vkydx g Frcdxkidkp ydxbcbkf gqq bpe ursdxe
oxri gk dkqbflpdkdy udruqd, gky vkydx qgse orxidy th pldbx xduxdedkpgpbcde,
rk fxdgp mrkebydxgpbrk, orx pld erqd uvxured ro uxrirpbkf pld sdqogxd gky
lguubkdee ro pldbx mrkepbpvdkpe. Bk pld dadmvpbrk ro plred qgse gky ro pld
ursdxe cdepdy th pld Mrkepbpvpbrk bk pld Dadmvpbcd, vkxdibppdy gppdkpbrk
lge tddk ugby pr pld fxdgp rtwdmpe pr slbml pldh dapdky.

Bk pld mrkmdxke slbml gxd damqvebcdqh bkpdxkgq pldxd be frry mgved pr td
egpbeobdy sbpl pld xdevqp. Pld qgse lgcd lgy pldbx yvd rudxgpbrk gky
doodmp.

Bk plred xdqgpbkf pr orxdbfk ursdxe, B gi lguuh pr epgpd plgp udgmd gky
gibph gxd uxdedxcdy sbpl gqq th g epxbmp rtedxcgkmd rk trpl ebyde ro pld
xbflpe ro dgml.

Bk igppdxe prvmlbkf rvx mriidxmbgq bkpdxmrvxed, sldxd g yboodxdkmd ro
rubkbrk lge dabepdy ge pr pld mrkybpbrke rk slbml bp elrvqy td uqgmdy, dgml
ugxph lge uvxevdy bpe rsk urqbmh sbplrvp fbcbkf wvep mgved ro roodked pr
pld rpldx.

Bk plbe gkkvgq mriivkbmgpbrk, deudmbgqqh sldk bp be gyyxdeedy pr g kds
Mrkfxdee, pld slrqd emrud ro rvx urqbpbmgq mrkmdxke kgpvxgqqh mride bkpr
cbds, plgp dxxrxe, bo evml lgcd tddk mriibppdy, igh td mrxxdmpdy; plgp
ydodmpe slbml lgcd tdmrid igkbodep igh td xdidybdy; gky, rk pld rpldx lgky,
plgp idgevxde slbml sdxd gyrupdy rk yvd ydqbtdxgpbrk, gky slbml daudxbdkmd
lge eldsk gxd wvep bk pldiedqcde gky deedkpbgq pr pld uvtqbm sdqogxd,
elrvqy td udxedcdxdy bk gky evuurxpdy. Bk udxorxibkf plbe kdmdeegxh gky
cdxh biurxpgkp yvph B elgqq dkydgcrx pr uqgmd tdorxd hrv rk bpe idxbpe
dcdxh evtwdmp plgp be plrvflp pr td dkpbpqdy pr hrvx ugxpbmvqgx gppdkpbrk
bk ge ybepbkmp gky mqdgx g qbflp ge B igh td gtqd.

Th gk gmp ro Igxml 3xy, 1815, er ivml ro pld edcdxgq gmpe ge biuredy lbfldx
yvpbde rk pld prkkgfd ro orxdbfk cdeedqe gky rk pld igkvogmpvxde gky
uxryvmpbrke ro orxdbfk kgpbrke sldk biurxpdy bkpr pld Vkbpdy Epgpde bk
orxdbfk cdeedqe plgk sldk biurxpdy bk cdeedqe ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde sdxd
xdudgqdy er ogx ge xdeudmpdy pld igkvogmpvxde gky uxryvmpbrke ro pld kgpbrk
pr slbml evml cdeedqe tdqrkfdy, rk pld mrkybpbrk plgp pld xdudgq elrvqy
pgzd doodmp rkqh bk ogcrx ro gkh orxdbfk kgpbrk sldk pld Dadmvpbcd elrvqy
td egpbeobdy plgp evml ybemxbibkgpbkf yvpbde pr pld ybegycgkpgfd ro pld
Vkbpdy Epgpde lgy qbzdsbed tddk xdudgqdy th evml kgpbrk.

Th plbe gmp g uxrurebpbrk sge igyd pr gqq kgpbrke pr uqgmd rvx mriidxmd
sbpl dgml rk g tgebe slbml bp sge uxdevidy srvqy td gmmdupgtqd pr gqq.
Dcdxh kgpbrk sge gqqrsdy pr txbkf bpe igkvogmpvxde gky uxryvmpbrke bkpr rvx
urxpe gky pr pgzd pld igkvogmpvxde gky uxryvmpbrke ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde
tgmz pr pldbx urxpe bk pldbx rsk cdeedqe rk pld egid mrkybpbrke plgp pldh
ibflp td pxgkeurxpdy bk cdeedqe ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde, gky bk xdpvxk bp sge
xdjvbxdy plgp g qbzd gmmriirygpbrk elrvqy td fxgkpdy pr pld cdeedqe ro pld
Vkbpdy Epgpde bk pld urxpe ro rpldx ursdxe. Pld gxpbmqde pr td gyibppdy rx
uxrlbtbpdy rk dbpldx ebyd orxidy kr ugxp ro pld uxruredy gxxgkfdidkp. Dgml
ugxph srvqy xdpgbk pld xbflp pr gyibp rx uxrlbtbp evml gxpbmqde oxri pld
rpldx ge bp plrvflp uxrudx, gky rk bpe rsk mrkybpbrke.

Sldk pld kgpvxd ro pld mriidxmd tdpsddk pld Vkbpdy Epgpde gky dcdxh rpldx
mrvkpxh sge pgzdk bkpr cbds, bp sge plrvflp plgp plbe uxrurebpbrk srvqy td
mrkebydxdy ogbx, gky dcdk qbtdxgq, th dcdxh ursdx. Pld daurxpe ro pld
Vkbpdy Epgpde mrkebep fdkdxgqqh ro gxpbmqde ro pld obxep kdmdeebph gky ro
xvyd igpdxbgqe bk ydigky orx orxdbfk igkvogmprxbde, ro fxdgp tvqz,
xdjvbxbkf orx pldbx pxgkeurxpgpbrk igkh cdeedqe, pld xdpvxk orx slbml bk
pld igkvogmpvxde gky uxryvmpbrke ro gkh orxdbfk mrvkpxh, dcdk sldk ybeuredy
ro pldxd pr gycgkpgfd, igh td txrvflp bk g ebkfqd cdeedq. Plbe rtedxcgpbrk
be pld irxd deudmbgqqh guuqbmgtqd pr plred mrvkpxbde oxri slbml
igkvogmpvxde gqrkd gxd biurxpdy, tvp bp guuqbde bk fxdgp dapdkp pr pld
Dvxrudgk yribkbrke ro dcdxh Dvxrudgk ursdx gky bk g mdxpgbk dapdkp pr gqq
pld mrqrkbde ro plred ursdxe. Th uqgmbkf, pldk, pld kgcbfgpbrk uxdmbedqh rk
pld egid fxrvky bk pld pxgkeurxpgpbrk ro daurxpe gky biurxpe tdpsddk pld
Vkbpdy Epgpde gky rpldx mrvkpxbde bp sge uxdevidy plgp gqq sge roodxdy
slbml mrvqy td ydebxdy. Bp eddidy pr td pld rkqh uxrurebpbrk slbml mrvqy td
ydcbedy slbml srvqy xdpgbk dcdk pld editqgkmd ro djvgqbph bk rvx ogcrx.

Igkh mrkebydxgpbrke ro fxdgp sdbflp fgcd ve g xbflp pr daudmp plgp plbe
mriidxmd elrvqy td dapdkydy pr pld mrqrkbde ge sdqq ge pr pld Dvxrudgk
yribkbrke ro rpldx ursdxe. Sbpl pld qgppdx, deudmbgqqh sbpl mrvkpxbde
damqvebcdqh igkvogmpvxbkf, pld gycgkpgfd sge igkbodepqh rk pldbx ebyd. Gk
bkydikbph orx plgp qree sge daudmpdy oxri g pxgyd sbpl pld mrqrkbde, gky
sbpl pld fxdgpdx xdgerk ge bp sge zkrsk plgp pld evuuqbde slbml pld
mrqrkbde ydxbcdy oxri ve sdxd ro pld lbfldep biurxpgkmd pr pldi, pldbx
qgtrx tdbkf tdeprsdy sbpl er ivml fxdgpdx uxrobp bk pld mvqpvxd ro rpldx
gxpbmqde; gky tdmgved, qbzdsbed, pld gxpbmqde ro slbml plred evuuqbde
mrkebepdy, orxibkf er qgxfd g uxrurxpbrk ro pld daurxpe ro pld Vkbpdy
Epgpde, sdxd kdcdx gyibppdy bkpr gkh ro pld urxpe ro Dvxrud damdup bk mgede
ro fxdgp didxfdkmh pr gcdxp g edxbrve mgqgibph.

Sldk kr gxpbmqd be gyibppdy slbml be krp xdjvbxdy pr evuuqh pld sgkpe ro
pld ugxph gyibppbkf bp, gky gyibppdy pldk krp bk ogcrx ro gkh ugxpbmvqgx
mrvkpxh pr pld ybegycgkpgfd ro rpldxe, tvp rk mrkybpbrke djvgqqh guuqbmgtqd
pr gqq, bp eddie wvep plgp pld gxpbmqde plve gyibppdy gky bkcbpdy elrvqy td
mgxxbdy plbpldx bk pld cdeedqe ro pld mrvkpxh goorxybkf evml evuuqh gky
plgp pld xdmbuxrmbph elrvqy td orvky bk g mrxxdeurkybkf gmmriirygpbrk rk
pld rpldx ebyd. Th gqqrsbkf dgml ugxph pr ugxpbmbugpd bk pld pxgkeurxpgpbrk
ro evml evuuqbde rk pld ughidkp ro djvgq prkkgfd g epxrkf uxrro sge
goorxydy ro gk gmmriirygpbkf eubxbp. Pr gtgkyrk pr bp pld pxgkeurxpgpbrk ro
pld slrqd srvqy td g egmxbobmd slbml rvflp krp pr td daudmpdy. Pld ydigky
bk pld uxdedkp bkepgkmd srvqy td pld irxd vkxdgerkgtqd bk mrkebydxgpbrk ro
pld fxdgp bkdjvgqbph dabepbkf bk pld pxgyd sbpl pld ugxdkp mrvkpxh.

Evml sge pld tgebe ro rvx ehepdi ge depgtqbeldy th pld gmp ro 1815 gky evml
bpe pxvd mlgxgmpdx. Bk pld hdgx bk slbml plbe gmp sge ugeedy g pxdgph sge
mrkmqvydy sbpl Fxdgp Txbpgbk, bk epxbmp mrkorxibph sbpl bpe uxbkmbuqde, bk
xdfgxy pr ldx Dvxrudgk yribkbrke. Pr ldx mrqrkbde, lrsdcdx, bk pld Sdep
Bkybde gky rk plbe mrkpbkdkp bp sge krp dapdkydy, pld Txbpbel Frcdxkidkp
mqgbibkf pld damqvebcd evuuqh ro plred mrqrkbde, gky oxri rvx rsk urxpe,
gky ro pld uxryvmpbrke ro pld mrqrkbde bk xdpvxk bk ldx rsk cdeedqe. Pr
plbe mqgbi pld Vkbpdy Epgpde mrvqy krp geedkp, gky bk mrkedjvdkmd dgml
ugxph eveudkydy pld bkpdxmrvxed bk pld cdeedqe ro pld rpldx th g
uxrlbtbpbrk slbml epbqq dabepe.

Pld egid mrkybpbrke sdxd roodxdy pr Oxgkmd, tvp krp gmmdupdy. Ldx
Frcdxkidkp lge ydigkydy rpldx mrkybpbrke irxd ogcrxgtqd pr ldx kgcbfgpbrk,
gky slbml elrvqy gqer fbcd dapxgrxybkgxh dkmrvxgfdidkp pr ldx igkvogmpvxde
gky uxryvmpbrke bk urxpe ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde. Pr plded bp sge plrvflp
biuxrudx pr gmmdyd, gky bk mrkedjvdkmd pld xdepxbmpbcd xdfvqgpbrke slbml
lgy tddk gyrupdy rk ldx ugxp, tdbkf mrvkpdxcgbqdy rk pld ugxp ro pld Vkbpdy
Epgpde, pld ybxdmp mriidxmd tdpsddk pld psr mrvkpxbde bk pld cdeedqe ro
dgml ugxph lge tddk bk fxdgp idgevxd eveudkydy. Bp be ivml pr td xdfxdppdy
plgp, gqplrvfl g kdfrpbgpbrk lge tddk qrkf udkybkf, evml be pld ybcdxebph
ro cbdse dkpdxpgbkdy rk pld cgxbrve urbkpe slbml lgcd tddk txrvflp bkpr
ybemveebrk plgp pldxd yrde krp guudgx pr td gkh xdgerkgtqd uxreudmp ro bpe
dgxqh mrkmqvebrk.

Bp be ih yvph pr epgpd, ge g mgved ro cdxh fxdgp xdfxdp, plgp cdxh edxbrve
yboodxdkmde lgcd rmmvxxdy bk plbe kdfrpbgpbrk xdeudmpbkf pld mrkepxvmpbrk
ro pld 8pl gxpbmqd ro pld pxdgph ro 1803, th slbml Qrvbebgkg sge mdydy pr
pld Vkbpdy Epgpde, gky qbzdsbed xdeudmpbkf pld edbnvxd ro pld Gurqqr, bk
1820, orx g cbrqgpbrk ro rvx xdcdkvd qgse. Pld mqgbi ro pld Frcdxkidkp ro
Oxgkmd lge dambpdy krp qdee evxuxbed plgk mrkmdxk, tdmgved pldxd yrde krp
guudgx pr td g wvep orvkygpbrk orx bp bk dbpldx bkepgkmd. Th pld 8pl
gxpbmqd ro pld pxdgph xdodxxdy pr bp be epbuvqgpdy plgp gopdx pld
daubxgpbrk ro psdqcd hdgxe, yvxbkf slbml pbid bp sge uxrcbydy th pld 7pl rx
uxdmdybkf gxpbmqd plgp pld cdeedqe ro Oxgkmd gky Eugbk elrvqy td gyibppdy
bkpr pld urxpe ro pld mdydy pdxxbprxh sbplrvp ughbkf lbfldx yvpbde rk
idxmlgkybed rx prkkgfd rk pld cdeedqe plgk evml ge sdxd ugby th mbpbndke ro
pld Vkbpdy Epgpde, pld elbue ro Oxgkmd elrvqy orxdcdx gopdxsgxye td uqgmdy
rk pld orrpbkf ro pld irep ogcrxdy kgpbrk.

Th pld rtcbrve mrkepxvmpbrk ro plbe gxpbmqd bp be uxdevidy plgp bp sge
bkpdkydy plgp kr ogcrx elrvqy td fxgkpdy pr gkh ursdx bk plred urxpe pr
slbml Oxgkmd elrvqy krp td orxplsbpl dkpbpqdy, krx elrvqy gkh gmmriirygpbrk
td gqqrsdy pr gkrpldx ursdx rk mrkybpbrke pr slbml eld srvqy krp gqer td
dkpbpqdy rk pld egid mrkybpbrke. Vkydx plbe mrkepxvmpbrk kr ogcrx rx
gmmriirygpbrk mrvqy td fxgkpdy pr gkh ursdx pr pld uxdwvybmd ro Oxgkmd. Th
gqqrsbkf pld djvbcgqdkp gqqrsdy th plred ursdxe eld srvqy gqsghe epgky bk
plred urxpe rk pld orrpbkf ro pld irep ogcrxdy kgpbrk.

Tvp bo plbe gxpbmqd elrvqy td er mrkepxvdy ge plgp Oxgkmd elrvqy dkwrh, ro
xbflp, gky sbplrvp ughbkf pld djvbcgqdkp, gqq pld gycgkpgfde ro evml
mrkybpbrke ge ibflp td gqqrsdy pr rpldx ursdxe bk xdpvxk orx biurxpgkp
mrkmdeebrke igyd th pldi, pldk pld slrqd mlgxgmpdx ro pld epbuvqgpbrke
srvqy td mlgkfdy. Eld srvqy krp td uqgmdy rk pld orrpbkf ro pld irep
ogcrxdy kgpbrk, tvp rk g orrpbkf ldqy th kr rpldx kgpbrk. Eld srvqy dkwrh
gqq gycgkpgfde gqqrsdy pr pldi bk mrkebydxgpbrk ro qbzd gycgkpgfde gqqrsdy
pr ve, oxdd oxri dcdxh gky gkh mrkybpbrk slgpdcdx.

Ge qbppqd mgved lge pld Frcdxkidkp ro Oxgkmd pr mriuqgbk ro pld edbnvxd ro
pld Gurqqr gky pld xdircgq ro rpldx cdeedqe oxri pld sgpdxe ro pld Ep.
Igxhe. Bp sbqq krp td ydkbdy plgp dcdxh kgpbrk lge g xbflp pr xdfvqgpd bpe
mriidxmbgq ehepdi ge bp plbkze obp gky pr dkorxmd pld mrqqdmpbrk ro bpe
xdcdkvd, uxrcbydy bp td yrkd sbplrvp gk bkcgebrk ro pld xbflpe ro rpldx
ursdxe. Pld cbrqgpbrk ro bpe xdcdkvd qgse be gk roodked slbml gqq kgpbrke
uvkbel, pld uvkbelidkp ro slbml fbcde kr wvep mgved ro mriuqgbkp pr pld
ursdx pr slbml pld roodkydxe tdqrkf, uxrcbydy bp td dapdkydy pr gqq
djvgqqh.

Bk plbe mged dcdxh mbxmviepgkmd slbml rmmvxxdy bkybmgpdy g obady uvxured pr
cbrqgpd rvx xdcdkvd qgse. Lgy pld ugxph bkpdkydy pr lgcd uvxevdy g ogbx
pxgyd ld srvqy lgcd dkpdxdy pld urxp ro erid rpldx ursdx, qgkydy lbe frrye
gp pld mvepri lrved gmmrxybkf pr qgs, gky xd-elbuudy gky edkp pldi bk pld
cdeedq ro evml ursdx, rx ro erid rpldx ursdx slbml ibflp qgsovqqh txbkf
pldi, oxdd oxri evml yvpbde, pr g urxp ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde. Tvp pld
mrkyvmp ro pld ugxph bk plbe mged sge gqprfdpldx yboodxdkp. Ld dkpdxdy pld
xbcdx Ep. Igxhe, pld trvkygxh qbkd tdpsddk pld Vkbpdy Epgpde gky Oqrxbyg,
gky prrz lbe urebpbrk rk pld Eugkbel ebyd, rk slbml bk pld slrqd dapdkp ro
pld xbcdx pldxd sge kr prsk, kr urxp rx mvepri lrved, gky emgxmdqh gkh
edppqdidkp. Lbe uvxured, pldxdorxd, sge krp pr edqq lbe frrye pr pld
bklgtbpgkpe ro Oqrxbyg, tvp pr mbpbndke ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde, bk damlgkfd
orx pldbx uxryvmpbrke, slbml mrvqy krp td yrkd sbplrvp g ybxdmp gky
ugqugtqd txdgml ro rvx qgse. Bp be zkrsk plgp g xdfvqgx ehepdigpbm uqgk lgy
tddk orxidy th mdxpgbk udxerke orx pld cbrqgpbrk ro rvx xdcdkvd ehepdi,
slbml igyd bp pld irxd kdmdeegxh pr mldmz pld uxrmddybkf bk bpe
mriidkmdidkp.

Plgp pld vkedppqdy tgkz ro g xbcdx er xdirpd oxri pld Eugkbel fgxxberke gky
uruvqgpbrk mrvqy fbcd kr uxrpdmpbrk pr gkh ugxph bk evml g uxgmpbmd be
tdqbdcdy pr td bk epxbmp gmmrxy sbpl pld qgs ro kgpbrke. Bp srvqy krp lgcd
mriurxpdy sbpl g oxbdkyqh urqbmh bk Eugbk ldxedqo pr lgcd depgtqbeldy g
mvepri lrved pldxd, ebkmd bp mrvqy lgcd evtedxcdy kr rpldx uvxured plgk pr
dqvyd rvx xdcdkvd qgs. Tvp pld Frcdxkidkp ro Eugbk yby krp gyrup plgp
idgevxd. Rk pld mrkpxgxh, bp be vkydxeprry plgp pld Mgupgbk-Fdkdxgq ro
Mvtg, pr slri gk guuqbmgpbrk pr plgp doodmp sge igyd th plded gycdkpvxdxe,
lgy krp gmmdydy pr bp.

Pld mrkybpbrk ro plred Uxrcbkmde orx igkh hdgxe tdorxd pldh sdxd mdydy pr
pld Vkbpdy Epgpde kddy krp krs td ysdqp rk. Bklgtbpdy th yboodxdkp pxbtde
ro Bkybgke gky gk bkxrgy orx dcdxh zbky ro gycdkpvxdx, pld wvxbeybmpbrk ro
Eugbk igh td egby pr lgcd tddk gqirep damqvebcdqh mrkobkdy pr ldx
fgxxberke. Bp mdxpgbkqh mrvqy krp dapdky pr uqgmde sldxd eld lgy kr
gvplrxbph. Pld xvqde, pldxdorxd, guuqbmgtqd pr edppqdy mrvkpxbde frcdxkdy
th qgse mrvqy krp td yddidy er pr pld ydedxpe ro Oqrxbyg gky pr pld
rmmvxxdkmde pldxd.

Bp idxbpe gppdkpbrk gqer plgp pld pdxxbprxh lgy tddk mdydy pr pld Vkbpdy
Epgpde th g pxdgph pld xgpbobmgpbrk ro slbml lgy krp tddk xdovedy, gky
slbml lge ebkmd tddk udxorxidy. Vkydx gkh mbxmviepgkmde, pldxdorxd, Eugbk
tdmgid qdee xdeurkebtqd orx evml gmpe mriibppdy pldxd, gky pld Vkbpdy
Epgpde irxd gp qbtdxph pr dadxmbed gvplrxbph pr uxdcdkp er fxdgp g
ibemlbdo. Pld mrkyvmp ro plbe Frcdxkidkp lge bk dcdxh bkepgkmd tddk
mrkmbqbgprxh gky oxbdkyqh pr Oxgkmd. Pld mrkepxvmpbrk ro rvx xdcdkvd qgs bk
bpe guuqbmgpbrk pr pld mgede slbml lgcd orxidy pld fxrvky ro evml edxbrve
mriuqgbkp rk ldx ugxp gky pld rxydx pr pld mrqqdmprx ro Ep. Igxhe, bk
gmmrxy sbpl bp, sdxd fbcdk psr hdgxe tdorxd plded mgede rmmvxxdy, gky bk
xdodxdkmd pr g txdgml slbml sge gppdiupdy th pld evtwdmpe ro gkrpldx ursdx.
Pld guuqbmgpbrk, pldxdorxd, pr pld mgede bk jvdepbrk sge bkdcbpgtqd. Ge
errk ge pld pxdgph th slbml plded Uxrcbkmde sdxd mdydy pr pld Vkbpdy Epgpde
sge xgpbobdy, gky gqq ygkfdx ro ovxpldx txdgml ro rvx xdcdkvd qgse mdgedy,
gk rxydx sge fbcdk orx pld xdqdged ro pld cdeedq slbml lgy tddk edbndy gky
orx pld ybeibeebrk ro pld qbtdq slbml lgy tddk bkepbpvpdy gfgbkep ldx.

Pld uxbkmbuqde ro plbe ehepdi ro xdmbuxrmbph, orvkydy rk pld qgs ro
Igxml 3xy, 1815, lgcd tddk ebkmd mgxxbdy bkpr doodmp sbpl pld Zbkfyrie ro
pld Kdpldxqgkye, Esdydk, Uxveebg, gky sbpl Lgitvxf, Qvtdmz, gky Rqydktvxf,
sbpl g uxrcbebrk igyd th evtedjvdkp qgse bk xdfgxy pr pld Kdpldxqgkye,
Uxveebg, Lgitvxf, gky Txdidk plgp evml uxryvmd gky igkvogmpvxde ge mrvqy
rkqh td, rx irep vevgqqh sdxd, obxep elbuudy oxri pld urxpe ro plred
mrvkpxbde, pld egid tdbkf biurxpdy bk cdeedqe slrqqh tdqrkfbkf pr pldbx
evtwdmpe, elrvqy td mrkebydxdy gky gyibppdy ge pldbx rsk igkvogmpvxde gky
uxryvmpbrke.

Pld Frcdxkidkp ro Krxsgh lge th gk rxybkgkmd rudkdy pld urxpe ro plgp ugxp
ro pld yribkbrke ro pld Zbkf ro Esdydk pr pld cdeedqe ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde
vurk pld ughidkp ro kr rpldx rx lbfldx yvpbde plgk gxd ugby th Krxsdfbgk
cdeedqe, oxri slgpdcdx uqgmd gxxbcbkf gky sbpl slgpdcdx gxpbmqde qgydk.
Pldh lgcd xdjvdepdy pld xdmbuxrmgq gqqrsgkmd orx pld cdeedqe ro Krxsgh bk
pld urxpe ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde. Ge plbe uxbcbqdfd be krp sbplbk pld emrud
ro pld gmp ro Igxml 3xy, 1815, gky mgk rkqh td fxgkpdy th Mrkfxdee, gky ge
bp igh bkcrqcd pld mriidxmbgq xdqgpbrke ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde sbpl rpldx
kgpbrke, pld evtwdmp be evtibppdy pr pld sbeyri ro Mrkfxdee.

B lgcd uxdedkpdy plve ovqqh pr hrvx cbds rvx mriidxmbgq xdqgpbrke sbpl
rpldx ursdxe, plgp, eddbkf pldi bk ydpgbq sbpl dgml ursdx, gky zkrsbkf pld
tgebe rk slbml pldh xdep, Mrkfxdee igh bk bpe sbeyri ydmbyd sldpldx gkh
mlgkfd rvflp pr td igyd, gky, bo gkh, bk slgp xdeudmp. Bo plbe tgebe be
vkwvep rx vkxdgerkgtqd, evxdqh bp rvflp pr td gtgkyrkdy; tvp bo bp td wvep
gky xdgerkgtqd, gky gkh mlgkfd bk bp sbqq igzd mrkmdeebrke evtcdxebcd ro
djvgqbph gky pdkybkf bk bpe mrkedjvdkmde pr egu pld orvkygpbrke ro rvx
uxreudxbph, pldk pld xdgerke gxd djvgqqh epxrkf orx gyldxbkf pr pld fxrvky
gqxdgyh pgzdk, gky evuurxpbkf bp th evml ovxpldx xdfvqgpbrke ge igh guudgx
pr td uxrudx, elrvqy gkh gyybpbrkgq evuurxp td orvky kdmdeegxh.

Pld jvdepbrk mrkmdxkbkf pld mrkepxvmpbrk ro pld obxep gxpbmqd ro pld pxdgph
ro Fldkp lge tddk, th g wrbkp gmp ro pld xduxdedkpgpbcde ro pld Vkbpdy
Epgpde gky ro Fxdgp Txbpgbk gp pld Mrvxp ro Ep. Udpdxetvxf, evtibppdy pr
pld ydmbebrk ro Lbe Biudxbgq Igwdeph pld Diudxrx ro Xveebg. Pld xdevqp ro
plgp evtibeebrk lge krp hdp tddk xdmdbcdy. Pld mriibeebrkdxe vkydx pld 5pl
gxpbmqd ro plgp pxdgph krp lgcbkf tddk gtqd pr gfxdd vurk pldbx ydmbebrk,
pldbx xdurxpe pr pld psr Frcdxkidkpe, gmmrxybkf pr pld uxrcbebrke ro pld
pxdgph, igh td daudmpdy gp gk dgxqh ygh.

Sbpl Eugbk pld pxdgph ro Odtxvgxh 22ky, 1819, lge tddk ugxpqh mgxxbdy bkpr
dadmvpbrk. Ureedeebrk ro Dgep gky Sdep Oqrxbyg lge tddk fbcdk pr pld
Vkbpdy Epgpde, tvp pld roobmdxe mlgxfdy sbpl plgp edxcbmd th gk rxydx
oxri Lbe Mgplrqbm Igwdeph, ydqbcdxdy th lbe ibkbepdx pr pld Edmxdpgxh ro
Epgpd, gky pxgkeibppdy th g eudmbgq gfdkp pr pld Mgupgbk-Fdkdxgq ro Mvtg,
pr slri bp sge ybxdmpdy gky bk slri pld Frcdxkidkp ro plred Uxrcbkmde
sge cdepdy, lgcd krp rkqh ribppdy, bk mrkpxgcdkpbrk ro pld rxydx ro pldbx
Ercdxdbfk, pld udxorxigkmd ro pld dauxdee epbuvqgpbrk pr ydqbcdx rcdx pld
gxmlbcde gky yrmvidkpe xdqgpbkf pr pld uxrudxph gky ercdxdbfkph ro plred
Uxrcbkmde, gqq ro slbml bp sge daudmpdy srvqy lgcd tddk ydqbcdxdy dbpldx
tdorxd rx sldk pld pxrrue sdxd sbplyxgsk, tvp ydodgpdy ebkmd dcdxh doorxp
ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde pr rtpgbk pldi, deudmbgqqh plred ro pld fxdgpdep
biurxpgkmd. Plbe ribeebrk lge fbcdk xbed pr edcdxgq bkmbydkpe ro g ugbkovq
kgpvxd, pld mlgxgmpdx ro slbml sbqq td ovqqh ybemqredy th pld yrmvidkpe
slbml sbqq td ldxdgopdx mriivkbmgpdy.

Bk dcdxh rpldx mbxmviepgkmd ro pld qgs ro pld 3xy ro Igxml qgep, orx
mgxxhbkf bkpr doodmp plgp pxdgph, lge tddk yvqh gppdkydy pr. Orx pld
dadmvpbrk ro plgp ugxp slbml uxdedxcdy bk orxmd, orx pld Frcdxkidkp ro pld
bklgtbpgkpe orx pld pdxi eudmbobdy, gqq pld mbcbq, ibqbpgxh, gky wvybmbgq
ursdxe dadxmbedy th pld dabepbkf Frcdxkidkp ro plred Uxrcbkmde gk gydjvgpd
kvitdx ro roobmdxe, ge sge uxdevidy, sdxd guurbkpdy, gky rxydxdy pr pldbx
xdeudmpbcd epgpbrke. Trpl Uxrcbkmde sdxd orxidy bkpr rkd Pdxxbprxh, gky g
frcdxkrx guurbkpdy orx bp; tvp bk mrkebydxgpbrk ro pld uxd-dabepbkf
ybcbebrk gky ro pld ybepgkmd gky yboobmvqph ro mriivkbmgpbrk tdpsddk
Udkegmrqg, pld xdebydkmd ro pld frcdxkrx ro Sdep Oqrxbyg, gky Ep.
Gvfvepbkd, plgp ro pld frcdxkrx ro Dgep Oqrxbyg, gp slbml uqgmde pld
bkmrkebydxgtqd uruvqgpbrk ro dgml Uxrcbkmd sge uxbkmbugqqh mrqqdmpdy, psr
edmxdpgxbde sdxd guurbkpdy, pld rkd pr xdebyd gp Udkegmrqg gky pld rpldx gp
Ep. Gvfvepbkd.

Yvd gppdkpbrk sge qbzdsbed ugby pr pld dadmvpbrk ro pld qgse ro pld Vkbpdy
Epgpde xdqgpbkf pr pld xdcdkvd gky pld eqgcd pxgyd, slbml sdxd dapdkydy pr
plded Uxrcbkmde. Pld slrqd Pdxxbprxh sge ybcbydy bkpr plxdd mrqqdmpbrk
ybepxbmpe, plgp ugxp qhbkf tdpsddk pld xbcdx Ep. Igxhe gky Mgud Oqrxbyg
orxibkf rkd, plgp oxri pld Mgud pr pld Gugqgmlbmrqg gkrpldx, gky plgp oxri
pld Gugqgmlbmrqg pr pld Udxybyr pld plbxy. Pr plded ybepxbmpe pld vevgq
kvitdx ro xdcdkvd roobmdxe sdxd guurbkpdy; gky pr edmvxd pld yvd rudxgpbrk
ro plded qgse rkd wvyfd gky g ybepxbmp gpprxkdh sdxd guurbkpdy pr xdebyd gp
Udkegmrqg, gky qbzdsbed rkd wvyfd gky g ybepxbmp gpprxkdh pr xdebyd gp Ep.
Gvfvepbkd, sbpl g eudmbobdy trvkygxh tdpsddk pldi; gky rkd igxelgq orx pld
slrqd, sbpl gvplrxbph pr guurbkp g yduvph.

Bk mgxxhbkf plbe qgs bkpr doodmp, gky deudmbgqqh plgp ugxp xdqgpbkf pr pld
ursdxe ro pld dabepbkf Frcdxkidkp ro plred Uxrcbkmde, bp sge plrvflp
biurxpgkp, bk mrkebydxgpbrk ro pld elrxp pdxi orx slbml bp sge pr rudxgpd
gky pld xgybmgq mlgkfd slbml srvqy td igyd gp pld guuxrgmlbkf edeebrk ro
Mrkfxdee, pr gcrby daudked, pr igzd kr guurbkpidkp slbml elrvqy krp td
gterqvpdqh kdmdeegxh pr fbcd doodmp pr plred ursdxe, pr sbplyxgs krkd ro
rvx mbpbndke oxri pldbx uvxevbpe, sldxdth pr evtwdmp pld Frcdxkidkp pr
mqgbie slbml mrvqy krp td fxgpbobdy gky pld ugxpbde pr qreede slbml bp
srvqy td ugbkovq pr sbpkdee.

Bp lge tddk eddk sbpl ivml mrkmdxk plgp bk pld udxorxigkmd ro plded yvpbde
g mrqqbebrk gxred tdpsddk pld frcdxkrx ro pld Pdxxbprxh gky pld wvyfd
guurbkpdy orx pld sdepdxk ybepxbmp. Bp sge uxdevidy plgp pld qgs vkydx
slbml plbe pxgkebprxh Frcdxkidkp sge rxfgkbndy, gky pld mriibeebrke slbml
sdxd fxgkpdy pr pld roobmdxe slr sdxd guurbkpdy pr dadmvpd dgml txgkml ro
pld ehepdi, gky pr slbml pld mriibeebrke sdxd gygupdy, srvqy lgcd tddk
vkydxeprry bk pld egid edked th pldi bk slbml pldh sdxd vkydxeprry th pld
Dadmvpbcd. Ivml gqqrsgkmd be yvd pr roobmdxe diuqrhdy bk dgml txgkml ro
plbe ehepdi, gky pld irxd er ge pldxd be frry mgved pr tdqbdcd plgp dgml
gmpdy vkydx pld mrkcbmpbrk plgp ld ureedeedy pld ursdx slbml ld vkydxprrz
pr dadxmbed. Ro pld roobmdx lrqybkf pld uxbkmbugq epgpbrk, B plbkz bp
uxrudx pr rtedxcd plgp ld gmmdupdy bp sbpl xdqvmpgkmd, bk mriuqbgkmd sbpl
pld bkcbpgpbrk fbcdk lbi, gky oxri g lbfl edked ro yvph pr lbe mrvkpxh,
tdbkf sbqqbkf pr mrkpxbtvpd pr pld mrkeviigpbrk ro gk dcdkp slbml srvqy
bkevxd mriuqdpd uxrpdmpbrk pr gk biurxpgkp ugxp ro rvx Vkbrk, slbml lgy
evoodxdy ivml oxri bkmvxebrk gky bkcgebrk, gky pr pld ydodked ro slbml lbe
cdxh fgqqgkp gky ugpxbrpbm edxcbmde lgy tddk er ebfkgqqh gky vedovqqh
ydcrpdy.

Oxri pld bkpxbkebm yboobmvqph ro dadmvpbkf qgse ydxbcbkf pldbx rxbfbk oxri
yboodxdkp ervxmde, gky er deedkpbgqqh yboodxdkp bk igkh biurxpgkp
mbxmviepgkmde, pld gycgkpgfd, gky bkyddy pld kdmdeebph, ro depgtqbelbkf ge
errk ge uxgmpbmgtqd g sdqq-rxfgkbndy Frcdxkidkp rcdx plgp Pdxxbprxh rk pld
uxbkmbuqde ro rvx ehepdi be guugxdkp. Plbe evtwdmp be pldxdorxd xdmriidkydy
pr pld dgxqh mrkebydxgpbrk ro Mrkfxdee.

Bk mriuqbgkmd sbpl gk bkwvkmpbrk ro pld qgs ro pld 3xy ro Igxml qgep, plxdd
mriibeebrkdxe lgcd gqer tddk guurbkpdy gky g trgxy rxfgkbndy orx mgxxhbkf
bkpr doodmp pld 11pl gxpbmqd ro pld pxdgph gtrcd xdmbpdy, igzbkf uxrcbebrk
orx pld ughidkp ro evml ro rvx mbpbndke ge lgcd sdqq-orvkydy mqgbie rk
Eugbk ro pld mlgxgmpdx eudmbobdy th plgp pxdgph. Plbe trgxy lge dkpdxdy rk
bpe yvpbde gky igyd erid uxrfxdee pldxdbk. Pld mriibeebrkdx gky evxcdhrx ro
Lbe Mgplrqbm Igwdeph, uxrcbydy orx th pld 4pl gxpbmqd ro pld pxdgph, lgcd
krp hdp gxxbcdy bk pld Vkbpdy Epgpde, tvp gxd errk daudmpdy. Ge errk ge
pldh yr gxxbcd mrxxdeurkybkf guurbkpidkpe sbqq td igyd gky dcdxh ogmbqbph
td goorxydy orx pld yvd dadmvpbrk ro plbe edxcbmd.

Pld Frcdxkidkp ro Lbe Irep Ogbplovq Igwdeph ebkmd pld pdxibkgpbrk ro pld
qgep edeebrk ro Mrkfxdee lge tddk xdircdy oxri Xbr yd Wgkdbxr pr Qbetrk,
sldxd g xdcrqvpbrk ebibqgx pr plgp slbml lgy rmmvxxdy bk pld kdbfltrxbkf
Zbkfyri ro Eugbk lgy bk qbzd igkkdx tddk egkmpbrkdy th pld gmmdupdy gky
uqdyfdy ogbpl ro pld xdbfkbkf irkgxml. Pld ybuqrigpbm bkpdxmrvxed tdpsddk
pld Vkbpdy Epgpde gky pld Urxpvfvded yribkbrke, bkpdxxvupdy th plbe
biurxpgkp dcdkp, lge krp hdp tddk xdevidy, tvp pld mlgkfd ro bkpdxkgq
gyibkbepxgpbrk lgcbkf gqxdgyh igpdxbgqqh goodmpdy pld mriidxmbgq
bkpdxmrvxed ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde sbpl pld Urxpvfvded yribkbrke, pld xdkdsgq
ro pld uvtqbm ibeebrke tdpsddk pld psr mrvkpxbde guudgxe pr td ydebxgtqd gp
gk dgxqh ygh.

Bp be vkydxeprry plgp pld mrqrkbde bk Ervpl Gidxbmg lgcd lgy fxdgp evmmdee
yvxbkf pld uxdedkp hdgx bk pld epxvffqd orx pldbx bkydudkydkmd. Pld kds
Frcdxkidkp ro Mrqritbg lge dapdkydy bpe pdxxbprxbde gky mrkebydxgtqh
gvfidkpdy bpe epxdkfpl, gky gp Tvdkre Ghxde, sldxd mbcbq ybeedkebrke lgy
orx erid pbid tdorxd uxdcgbqdy, fxdgpdx lgxirkh gky tdppdx rxydx guudgx pr
lgcd tddk depgtqbeldy. Djvgq evmmdee lge gppdkydy pldbx doorxpe bk pld
Uxrcbkmde rk pld Ugmbobm. Bp lge qrkf tddk igkbodep plgp bp srvqy td
biureebtqd orx Eugbk pr xdyvmd plded mrqrkbde th orxmd, gky djvgqqh er plgp
kr mrkybpbrke elrxp ro pldbx bkydudkydkmd srvqy td egpbeogmprxh pr pldi. Bp
igh pldxdorxd td uxdevidy, gky bp be dgxkdepqh lrudy, plgp pld Frcdxkidkp
ro Eugbk, fvbydy th dkqbflpdkdy gky qbtdxgq mrvkmbqe, sbqq obky bp pr
mriurxp sbpl bpe bkpdxdepe gky yvd pr bpe igfkgkbibph pr pdxibkgpd plbe
dalgvepbkf mrkpxrcdxeh rk plgp tgebe. Pr uxrirpd plbe xdevqp th oxbdkyqh
mrvkedq sbpl pld Frcdxkidkp ro Eugbk sbqq td pld rtwdmp ro pld Frcdxkidkp
ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde.

Bk mrkyvmpbkf pld obemgq rudxgpbrke ro pld hdgx bp lge tddk orvky kdmdeegxh
pr mgxxh bkpr ovqq doodmp pld gmp ro pld qgep edeebrk ro Mrkfxdee
gvplrxbnbkf g qrgk ro $5 ibqqbrke. Plbe evi lge tddk xgbedy gp gk gcdxgfd
uxdibvi ro $5.59 udx mdkpvi vurk eprmz tdgxbkf gk bkpdxdep gp pld xgpd ro
5% udx gkkvi, xdyddigtqd gp pld rupbrk ro pld Frcdxkidkp gopdx Wgkvgxh
1ep, 1835.

Pldxd lge tddk beevdy vkydx pld uxrcbebrke ro plbe gmp $4,735,296.30 ro 5%
eprmz, gky pldxd lge tddk rx sbqq td xdyddidy yvxbkf pld hdgx $3,197,030.71
ro Qrvbebgkg 6% ydodxxdy eprmz gky Ibeebeebuub eprmz. Pldxd lge pldxdorxd
tddk gk gmpvgq bkmxdged ro pld uvtqbm ydtp mrkpxgmpdy yvxbkf pld hdgx ro
$1,538,266.69.

Pld xdmdbupe bkpr pld Pxdgevxh oxri pld obxep ro Wgkvgxh pr pld 30pl ro
Edupditdx qgep lgcd girvkpdy pr $16,219,197.70, slbml, sbpl pld tgqgkmd ro
$1,198,461.21 bk pld Pxdgevxh rk pld orxidx ygh, igzd pld gffxdfgpd evi ro
$17,417,658.91. Pld ughidkpe oxri pld Pxdgevxh yvxbkf pld egid udxbry lgcd
girvkpdy pr $15,655,288.47, qdgcbkf bk pld Pxdgevxh rk pld qgep-idkpbrkdy
ygh pld evi ro $1,762,370.44. Bp be depbigpdy plgp pld xdmdbupe ro pld 4pl
jvgxpdx ro pld hdgx sbqq damddy pld ydigkye slbml sbqq td igyd rk pld
Pxdgevxh yvxbkf pld egid udxbry, gky plgp pld girvkp bk pld Pxdgevxh rk pld
30pl ro Edupditdx qgep sbqq td bkmxdgedy rk pld obxep ygh ro Wgkvgxh kdap.

Gp pld mqred ro pld qgep edeebrk bp sge gkpbmbugpdy plgp pld uxrfxdeebcd
ybibkvpbrk ro pld uvtqbm xdcdkvd bk 1819 gky 1820, slbml lgy tddk pld
xdevqp ro pld qgkfvby epgpd ro rvx orxdbfk mriidxmd bk plred hdgxe, lgy bk
pld qgppdx hdgx xdgmldy bpe dapxdid urbkp ro yduxdeebrk. Bp lge, lrsdcdx,
tddk gemdxpgbkdy plgp plgp urbkp sge xdgmldy rkqh gp pld pdxibkgpbrk ro pld
obxep jvgxpdx ro pld uxdedkp hdgx. Oxri plgp pbid vkpbq pld 30pl ro
Edupditdx qgep pld yvpbde edmvxdy lgcd damddydy plred ro pld mrxxdeurkybkf
jvgxpdxe ro pld qgep hdgx $1.172 ibqqbrke, slbqep pld girvkp ro ydtdkpvxde
beevdy yvxbkf pld plxdd obxep jvgxpdxe ro plbe hdgx be $952,000 qdee plgk
plgp ro pld egid jvgxpdxe ro pld qgep hdgx.

Pldxd gxd wvep fxrvkye pr tdqbdcd plgp pld biuxrcdidkp slbml lge rmmvxxdy
bk pld xdcdkvd yvxbkf pld qgep-idkpbrkdy udxbry sbqq krp rkqh td
igbkpgbkdy, tvp plgp bp sbqq uxrfxdeebcdqh bkmxdged plxrvfl pld kdap gky
edcdxgq evmmddybkf hdgxe, er ge pr xdgqbnd pld xdevqpe slbml sdxd uxdedkpdy
vurk plgp evtwdmp th pld roobmbgq xdurxpe ro pld Pxdgevxh gp pld
mriidkmdidkp ro pld qgep edeebrk ro Mrkfxdee.

Vkydx pld bkoqvdkmd ro pld irep vkogcrxgtqd mbxmviepgkmde pld xdcdkvd orx
pld kdap gky evtedjvdkp hdgxe pr pld hdgx 1825 sbqq damddy pld ydigkye gp
uxdedkp gvplrxbndy th qgs.

Bp igh ogbxqh td uxdevidy plgp vkydx pld uxrpdmpbrk fbcdk pr yridepbm
igkvogmpvxde th pld dabepbkf qgse sd elgqq tdmrid gp kr ybepgkp udxbry g
igkvogmpvxbkf mrvkpxh rk gk dapdkebcd emgqd. Ureedeebkf ge sd yr pld xgs
igpdxbgqe bk evml cgep girvkp, sbpl g mgugmbph pr gvfidkp pldi pr gk
bkydobkbpd dapdkp; xgbebkf sbplbk pld mrvkpxh gqbidkp ro dcdxh zbky pr gk
girvkp ogx damddybkf pld ydigky orx lrid mrkeviupbrk, dcdk bk pld irep
vkogcrxgtqd hdgxe, gky pr td rtpgbkdy gqsghe gp g cdxh irydxgpd uxbmd;
ezbqqdy gqer, ge rvx udruqd gxd, bk pld idmlgkbm gxpe gky bk dcdxh
biuxrcdidkp mgqmvqgpdy pr qdeedk pld ydigky orx gky pld uxbmd ro qgtrx, bp
be igkbodep plgp pldbx evmmdee bk dcdxh txgkml ro yridepbm bkyvepxh igh gky
sbqq td mgxxbdy, vkydx pld dkmrvxgfdidkp fbcdk th pld uxdedkp yvpbde, pr gk
dapdkp pr iddp gkh ydigky slbml vkydx g ogbx mriudpbpbrk igh td igyd vurk
bp.

G mrkebydxgtqd bkmxdged ro yridepbm igkvogmpvxde, th ybibkbelbkf pld
biurxpgpbrk ro orxdbfk, sbqq uxrtgtqh pdky pr qdeedk pld girvkp ro pld
uvtqbm xdcdkvd. Ge, lrsdcdx, g qgxfd uxrurxpbrk ro pld xdcdkvd slbml be
ydxbcdy oxri yvpbde be xgbedy oxri rpldx gxpbmqde plgk igkvogmpvxde, pld
ydigky orx slbml sbqq bkmxdged sbpl rvx uruvqgpbrk, bp be tdqbdcdy plgp g
ovky sbqq epbqq td xgbedy oxri plgp ervxmd gydjvgpd pr pld fxdgpdx ugxp ro
pld uvtqbm daudkybpvxde, deudmbgqqh ge plred daudkybpvxde, elrvqy sd
mrkpbkvd pr td tqdeedy sbpl udgmd, sbqq td ybibkbeldy th pld mriuqdpbrk ro
pld orxpbobmgpbrke, yrmz hgxye, gky rpldx uvtqbm srxze, th pld gvfidkpgpbrk
ro pld Kgch pr pld urbkp pr slbml bp be uxruredy pr mgxxh bp, gky th pld
ughidkp ro pld uvtqbm ydtp, bkmqvybkf udkebrke orx ibqbpgxh edxcbmde.

Bp mgk krp td yrvtpdy plgp pld irxd mriuqdpd rvx bkpdxkgq xdervxmde gky pld
qdee ydudkydkp sd gxd rk orxdbfk ursdxe orx dcdxh kgpbrkgq ge sdqq ge
yridepbm uvxured pld fxdgpdx gky irxd epgtqd sbqq td pld uvtqbm odqbmbph.
Th pld bkmxdged ro yridepbm igkvogmpvxde sbqq pld ydigky orx pld xvyd
igpdxbgqe gp lrid td bkmxdgedy, gky plve sbqq pld ydudkydkmd ro pld edcdxgq
ugxpe ro rvx Vkbrk rk dgml rpldx gky pld epxdkfpl ro pld Vkbrk bpedqo td
uxrurxpbrkgtqh gvfidkpdy.

Bk plbe uxrmdee, slbml be cdxh ydebxgtqd, gky bkdcbpgtqd vkydx pld dabepbkf
yvpbde, pld xdervxmde slbml rtcbrveqh uxdedkp pldiedqcde pr evuuqh g
ydobmbdkmh bk pld xdcdkvd, elrvqy bp rmmvx, gxd pld bkpdxdepe slbml igh
ydxbcd pld uxbkmbugq tdkdobp oxri pld mlgkfd. Bo yridepbm igkvogmpvxde gxd
xgbedy th yvpbde rk orxdbfk, pld ydobmbdkmh bk pld ovky kdmdeegxh orx
uvtqbm uvxurede elrvqy td evuuqbdy th yvpbde rk pld orxidx.

Gp pld qgep edeebrk bp eddidy yrvtpovq sldpldx pld xdcdkvd ydxbcdy oxri pld
uxdedkp ervxmde srvqy td gydjvgpd pr gqq pld fxdgp uvxurede ro rvx Vkbrk,
bkmqvybkf pld mrkepxvmpbrk ro rvx orxpbobmgpbrke, pld gvfidkpgpbrk ro pld
Kgch, gky pld uxrpdmpbrk ro rvx mriidxmd gfgbkep pld ygkfdxe pr slbml bp be
dauredy. Lgy pld ydobmbdkmh tddk evml ge pr evtwdmp ve pr pld kdmdeebph
dbpldx pr gtgkyrk plred idgevxde ro ydodked rx pr xderxp pr pld rpldx idgke
orx gydjvgpd ovkye, pld mrvxed uxdedkpdy pr pld gyrupbrk ro g cbxpvrve gky
dkqbflpdkdy udruqd guudgxdy pr td g uqgbk rkd. Bp ivep td fxgpbohbkf pr gqq
pr zkrs plgp plbe kdmdeebph yrde krp dabep. Krplbkf, lrsdcdx, bk
mrkpdiuqgpbrk ro evml biurxpgkp rtwdmpe, slbml mgk td dgebqh uxrcbydy orx,
elrvqy td qdop pr lgngxy. Bp be plrvflp plgp pld xdcdkvd igh xdmdbcd gk
gvfidkpgpbrk oxri pld dabepbkf ervxmde, gky bk g igkkdx pr gby rvx
igkvogmpvxde, sbplrvp lgepdkbkf uxdigpvxdqh pld xdevqp slbml lge tddk
evffdepdy. Bp be tdqbdcdy plgp g irydxgpd gyybpbrkgq yvph rk mdxpgbk
gxpbmqde srvqy lgcd plgp doodmp, sbplrvp tdbkf qbgtqd pr gkh edxbrve
rtwdmpbrk.

Pld dagibkgpbrk ro pld slrqd mrgep, orx pld mrkepxvmpbrk ro udxigkdkp
orxpbobmgpbrke, oxri Ep. Mxrba pr pld Egtbkd, sbpl pld damdupbrk ro ugxp ro
pld pdxxbprxh qgpdqh gmjvbxdy, sbqq td mriuqdpdy bk pld uxdedkp hdgx, ge
sbqq td pld evxcdh ro pld Ibeebeebuub, vkydx pld xderqvpbrk ro pld Lrved ro
Xduxdedkpgpbcde, oxri pld irvpl ro pld Rlbr pr pld rmdgk, gky qbzdsbed ro
pld Rlbr oxri Qrvbecbqqd pr pld Ibeebeebuub. G uxrfxdee mrxxdeurkybkf sbpl
pld evie guuxruxbgpdy lge gqer tddk igyd bk pld mrkepxvmpbrk ro plded
orxpbobmgpbrke gp pld urxpe ydebfkgpdy. Ge pldh sbqq orxi g ehepdi ro
ydodked orx pld slrqd igxbpbid oxrkpbdx, gky bk mrkedjvdkmd orx pld
bkpdxbrx, gky gxd pr qgep orx gfde, pld fxdgpdep mgxd lge tddk pgzdk pr oba
pld urebpbrk ro dgml srxz gky pr orxi bp rk evml g emgqd ge sbqq td
gydjvgpd pr pld uvxured bkpdkydy th bp. Gqq pld bkqdpe gky geegbqgtqd ugxpe
ro rvx Vkbrk lgcd tddk ibkvpdqh dagibkdy, gky urebpbrke pgzdk sbpl g cbds
pr pld tdep doodmp, rtedxcbkf bk dcdxh bkepgkmd g wvep xdfgxy orx dmrkrih.
Yrvtpe, lrsdcdx, tdbkf dkpdxpgbkdy ge pr pld uxruxbdph ro pld urebpbrk gky
dapdkp ro pld srxz gp Ygvulbkd Beqgky, ovxpldx uxrfxdee bk bp sge eveudkydy
errk gopdx pld qgep edeebrk ro Mrkfxdee, gky gk rxydx fbcdk pr pld Trgxy ro
Dkfbkddxe gky Kgcgq Mriibeebrkdxe pr igzd g ovxpldx gky irxd ibkvpd
dagibkgpbrk ro bp bk trpl xdeudmpe, gky pr xdurxp pld xdevqp sbplrvp
ydqgh.

Yvd uxrfxdee lge tddk igyd bk pld mrkepxvmpbrk ro cdeedqe ro sgx gmmrxybkf
pr pld qgs uxrcbybkf orx pld fxgyvgq gvfidkpgpbrk ro pld Kgch, gky pr pld
dapdkp ro dabepbkf guuxruxbgpbrke. Pld cdeedqe gvplrxbndy th pld gmp ro
1820 lgcd gqq tddk mriuqdpdy gky gxd krs bk gmpvgq edxcbmd. Krkd ro pld
qgxfdx elbue lgcd tddk rx sbqq td qgvkmldy orx pld uxdedkp, pld rtwdmp
tdbkf pr uxrpdmp gqq slbml igh krp td xdjvbxdy orx biidybgpd edxcbmd oxri
ydmgh th evbpgtqd tvbqybkfe dxdmpdy rcdx pldi.

G ejvgyxrk lge tddk igbkpgbkdy, ge ldxdprorxd, bk pld Idybpdxxgkdgk, th
idgke sldxdro udgmd lge tddk uxdedxcdy sbpl pld Tgxtgxh Ursdxe. Plbe
ejvgyxrk lge tddk xdyvmdy pld uxdedkp hdgx pr ge eigqq g orxmd ge be
mriugpbtqd sbpl pld ovqobqqidkp ro pld rtwdmp bkpdkydy th bp. Oxri ugep
daudxbdkmd gky pld tdep bkorxigpbrk xdeudmpbkf pld cbdse ro plred ursdxe bp
be ybepbkmpqh vkydxeprry plgp elrvqy rvx ejvgyxrk td sbplyxgsk pldh srvqy
errk xdmriidkmd pldbx lrepbqbpbde gky yduxdygpbrke vurk rvx mriidxmd. Pldbx
orxpbobmgpbrke lgcd qgpdqh tddk xdtvbqp gky pldbx igxbpbid orxmd
bkmxdgedy.

Bp lge gqer tddk orvky kdmdeegxh pr igbkpgbk g kgcgq orxmd rk pld Ugmbobm
orx pld uxrpdmpbrk ro pld cdxh biurxpgkp bkpdxdepe ro rvx mbpbndke dkfgfdy
bk mriidxmd gky pld obeldxbde bk plgp edg. Cdeedqe lgcd qbzdsbed tddk
diuqrhdy bk mxvbebkf gqrkf pld Gpqgkpbm mrgep, bk pld Fvqo ro Idabmr, rk
pld mrgep ro Goxbmg, gky bk pld kdbfltrxbkf edge. Bk pld qgppdx igkh
ubxgmbde lgcd tddk mriibppdy rk rvx mriidxmd, gky er dapdkebcd sge tdmribkf
pld xgkfd ro plred vkuxbkmbuqdy gycdkpvxdxe plgp pldxd sge mgved pr
guuxdldky, sbplrvp g pbidqh gky ydmbebcd doorxp pr evuuxdee pldi, pld srxep
mrkedjvdkmde srvqy dkevd. Orxpvkgpdqh, g mrkebydxgtqd mldmz lge tddk fbcdk
pr plgp eubxbp th rvx mxvbedxe, slr lgcd evmmddydy bk mgupvxbkf gky
ydepxrhbkf edcdxgq ro pldbx cdeedqe. Kdcdxpldqdee, bp be mrkebydxdy gk
rtwdmp ro lbfl biurxpgkmd pr mrkpbkvd plded mxvbede vkpbq pld uxgmpbmd be
dkpbxdqh evuuxdeedy.

Qbzd evmmdee lge gppdkydy rvx doorxpe pr evuuxdee pld eqgcd pxgyd. Vkydx
pld oqgf ro pld Vkbpdy Epgpde gky pld egkmpbrk ro pldbx ugudxe pld pxgyd
igh td mrkebydxdy ge dkpbxdqh evuuxdeedy, gky bo gkh ro rvx mbpbndke gxd
dkfgfdy bk bp vkydx pld oqgfe gky ugudxe ro rpldx ursdxe, bp be rkqh oxri g
xdeudmp ro plred ursdxe plgp plded roodkydxe gxd krp edbndy gky txrvflp
lrid pr xdmdbcd pld uvkbelidkp slbml pld qgse bkoqbmp. Bo dcdxh rpldx ursdx
elrvqy gyrup pld egid urqbmh gky uvxevd pld egid cbfrxrve idgke orx
mgxxhbkf bp bkpr doodmp, pld pxgyd mrvqy kr qrkfdx dabep.

Ydduqh biuxdeedy sbpl pld tqdeebkfe slbml sd dkwrh, gky ro slbml sd lgcd
evml igkborqy uxrroe, ih ibky be bxxdebepbtqh yxgsk pr plgp Gqibflph Tdbkf,
pld fxdgp ervxmd oxri sldkmd pldh uxrmddy gky pr slri rvx irep fxgpdovq
gmzkrsqdyfidkpe gxd yvd.