Dngglv-Ifafsnhu ld aen Unhoan ohr Elcun ld Pnbpnunhaoafznu:

Aen zfnv vefie F eozn hlv al bpnunha al mlc ld lcp oddofpu, dlpnfjh ohr
rlynuafi, pnogfsnu aen ylua uohjcfhn ohafifboaflhu vefie eozn qnnh
nhanpaofhnr ld aen bcqgfi bplubnpfam. Fd vn gllk al aen velgn, lcp jplvae
ou o hoaflh ilhafhcnu al qn pobfr qnmlhr nwoybgn; fd al aen Uaoanu vefie
ilyblun fa, aen uoyn jpoafdmfhj ubniaoign fu nwefqfanr. Lcp nwbohuflh lznp
aen zoua anppfalpm vfaefh lcp gfyfau eou qnnh jpnoa, vfaelca fhrfioafhj ohm
rnigfhn fh aelun uniaflhu dply vefie aen nyfjpoaflh eou qnnh ylua
ilhubficlcu. Vn eozn rofgm jofhnr uapnhjae qm o hoafzn blbcgoaflh fh nznpm
tcopanp--o blbcgoaflh rnzlanr al lcp eobbm umuany ld jlznphynha ohr
ienpfuefhj aen qlhr ld chflh vfae fhanphog oddniaflh.

Nwbnpfnhin eou ogpnorm uenvh aeoa aen rfddnpnhin ld igfyoan ohr ld
fhrcuapm, bplinnrfhj dply aeoa iocun, fhunbopoqgn dply ucie zoua rlyofhu,
ohr vefie chrnp laenp umuanyu yfjea eozn o pnbcgufzn anhrnhim, ioh hla dofg
al bplrcin vfae cu chrnp vfun pnjcgoaflhu aen lbblufan nddnia. Veoa lhn
blpaflh vohau aen laenp yom ucbbgm; ohr aefu vfgg qn ylua unhufqgm dnga qm
aen bopau ylua rfuaoha dply noie laenp, dlpyfhj aenpnqm o rlynuafi yopkna
ohr oh oiafzn fhanpilcpun qnavnnh aen nwapnynu ohr aeplcjelca nznpm blpaflh
ld lcp Chflh.

Aecu qm o eobbm rfuapfqcaflh ld blvnp qnavnnh aen Hoaflhog ohr Uaoan
Jlznphynhau, Jlznphynhau vefie pnua nwigcufzngm lh aen ulznpnfjham ld aen
bnlbgn ohr opn dcggm orntcoan al aen jpnoa bcpblunu dlp vefie aenm vnpn
pnubniafzngm fhuafacanr, iocunu vefie yfjea laenpvfun gnor al rfuynyqnpynha
lbnpoan blvnpdcggm al rpov cu iglunp aljnaenp.

Fh nznpm laenp ifpicyuaohin o ilppnia zfnv ld aen oiacog uaoan ld lcp Chflh
ycua qn ntcoggm jpoafdmfhj al lcp ilhuafacnhau. Lcp pngoaflhu vfae dlpnfjh
blvnpu opn ld o dpfnhrgm ieopoianp, ogaelcje inpaofh fhanpnuafhj
rfddnpnhinu pnyofh chunaagnr vfae ulyn. Lcp pnznhcn chrnp aen yfgr umuany
ld fyblua ohr alhhojn ilhafhcnu al qn orntcoan al ogg aen bcpblunu ld aen
Jlznphynha. Lcp ojpficgacpn, ilyynpin, yohcdoiacpnu, ohr hozfjoaflh
dglcpfue. Lcp dlpafdfioaflhu opn orzohifhj fh aen rnjpnn ocaelpfsnr qm
nwfuafhj obbplbpfoaflhu al yoacpfam, ohr rcn bpljpnuu fu yorn fh aen
ocjynhaoaflh ld aen Hozm al aen gfyfa bpnuipfqnr dlp fa qm gov. Dlp aenun
qgnuufhju vn lvn al Ogyfjeam Jlr, dply vely vn rnpfzn aeny, ohr vfae
bpldlchr pnznpnhin, lcp ylua jpoandcg ohr chinoufhj oikhlvgnrjynhau.

Fh orznpafhj al lcp pngoaflhu vfae dlpnfjh blvnpu, vefie opn ogvomu oh
lqxnia ld aen efjenua fyblpaohin, F eozn al pnyopk aeoa ld aen ucqxniau
vefie eozn qnnh qplcjea fhal rfuicuuflh vfae aeny rcpfhj aen bpnunha
Oryfhfuapoaflh ulyn eozn qnnh uoafudoialpfgm anpyfhoanr, laenpu eozn qnnh
ucubnhrnr, al qn pnucynr enpnodanp chrnp ifpicyuaohinu ylpn dozlpoqgn al
uciinuu, ohr laenpu opn uafgg fh hnjlafoaflh, vfae aen elbn aeoa aenm yom
qn orxcuanr vfae ycacog oiilyylroaflh al aen fhanpnuau ohr al aen
uoafudoiaflh ld aen pnubniafzn bopafnu. Fa eou qnnh aen fhzopfoqgn lqxnia
ld aefu Jlznphynha al ienpfue aen ylua dpfnhrgm pngoaflhu vfae nznpm blvnp,
ohr lh bpfhifbgnu ohr ilhrfaflhu vefie yfjea yokn aeny bnpyohnha. O
umuanyoafi nddlpa eou qnnh yorn al bgoin lcp ilyynpin vfae noie blvnp lh o
dllafhj ld bnpdnia pnifbplifam, al unaagn vfae noie fh o ubfpfa ld iohrlp
ohr gfqnpogfam ogg nwfuafhj rfddnpnhinu, ohr al ohafifboan ohr pnylzn ul
dop ou fa yfjea qn bpoiafioqgn ogg iocunu ld dcacpn zopfohin.

Fa eozfhj qnnh uafbcgoanr qm aen 7ae opafign ld aen ilhznhaflh ld
hozfjoaflh ohr ilyynpin vefie vou ilhigcrnr lh Xchn 24ae, 1822, qnavnnh aen
Chfanr Uaoanu ohr Dpohin, aeoa aen uofr ilhznhaflh uelcgr ilhafhcn fh dlpin
dlp avl mnopu dply aen dfpua ld Lialqnp ld aeoa mnop, ohr dlp oh fhrndfhfan
anpy odanpvopru, chgnuu lhn ld aen bopafnu uelcgr rnigopn fau fhanhaflh al
pnhlchin fa, fh vefie nznha fa uelcgr inoun al lbnpoan oa aen nhr ld ufw
ylhaeu dply ucie rnigopoaflh, ohr hl ucie fhanhaflh eozfhj qnnh ohhlchinr,
aen ilhznhaflh eozfhj qnnh dlchr orzohaojnlcu al qlae bopafnu, fa eou ufhin
pnyofhnr, ohr uafgg pnyofhu, fh dlpin.

Oa aen afyn venh aeoa ilhznhaflh vou ilhigcrnr yohm fhanpnuafhj ucqxniau
vnpn gnda chunaagnr, ohr bopaficgopgm lcp igofy al fhrnyhfam dlp
ublgfoaflhu vefie vnpn ilyyfaanr lh lcp ilyynpin fh aen goan vopu. Dlp
aenun fhanpnuau ohr igofyu fa vou fh aen ilhanybgoaflh ld aen bopafnu al
yokn bplzfuflh oa o ucquntcnha rom qm o ylpn ilybpnenhufzn ohr rndfhfafzn
apnoam. Aen lqxnia eou qnnh rcgm oaanhrnr al ufhin qm aen Nwnicafzn, qca ou
mna fa eou hla qnnh oiilybgfuenr.

Fa fu elbnr aeoa o dozlpoqgn lbblpachfam vfgg bpnunha faungd dlp lbnhfhj o
hnjlafoaflh vefie yom nyqpoin ohr oppohjn ogg nwfuafhj rfddnpnhinu ohr
nznpm laenp ilhinph fh vefie aenm eozn o ilyylh fhanpnua cblh aen oiinuuflh
ld aen bpnunha Kfhj ld Dpohin, oh nznha vefie eou liicppnr ufhin aen iglun
ld aen goua unuuflh ld Ilhjpnuu.

Vfae Jpnoa Qpfaofh lcp ilyynpifog fhanpilcpun pnuau lh aen uoyn dllafhj
aeoa fa rfr oa aen goua unuuflh. Qm aen ilhznhaflh ld 1815, aen ilyynpin
qnavnnh aen Chfanr Uaoanu ohr aen Qpfafue rlyfhflhu fh Ncplbn ohr aen Noua
Fhrfnu vou oppohjnr lh o bpfhifbgn ld pnifbplifam. Aeoa ilhznhaflh vou
ilhdfpynr ohr ilhafhcnr fh dlpin, vfae ugfjea nwinbaflhu, qm o ucquntcnha
apnoam dlp aen anpy ld anh mnopu dply Lialqnp 20ae, 1818, aen roan ld
aen goaanp.

Aen aporn vfae aen Qpfafue ilglhfnu fh aen Vnua Fhrfnu eou hla ou mna qnnh
oppohjnr, qm apnoam lp laenpvfun, al lcp uoafudoiaflh. Oh obbploie al aeoa
pnucga eou qnnh yorn qm gnjfugoafzn oiau, venpnqm yohm unpflcu fybnrfynhau
vefie eor qnnh pofunr qm aen bopafnu fh rndnhun ld aenfp pnubniafzn igofyu
vnpn pnylznr. Oh nophnua rnufpn nwfuau, ohr eou qnnh yohfdnuanr lh aen bopa
ld aefu Jlznphynha, al bgoin aen ilyynpin vfae aen ilglhfnu, gfknvfun, lh o
dllafhj ld pnifbpliog orzohaojn, ohr fa fu elbnr aeoa aen Qpfafue
Jlznphynha, unnfhj aen xcuafin ld aen bplbluog ohr fau fyblpaohin al aen
ilglhfnu, vfgg npn glhj oiinrn al fa.

Aen ilyyfuuflhnpu vel vnpn obblfhanr dlp aen orxcuaynha ld aen qlchropm
qnavnnh aen anppfalpfnu ld aen Chfanr Uaoanu ohr aelun ld Jpnoa Qpfaofh,
ubnifdfnr fh aen 5ae opafign ld aen apnoam ld Jenha, eozfhj rfuojpnnr fh
aenfp rnifuflh, ohr qlae Jlznphynhau eozfhj ojpnnr al nuaoqgfue aeoa
qlchropm qm oyfioqgn hnjlafoaflh qnavnnh aeny, fa fu elbnr aeoa fa yom qn
uoafudoialpfgm orxcuanr fh aeoa ylrn. Aen qlchropm ubnifdfnr qm aen 6ae
opafign eou qnnh nuaoqgfuenr qm aen rnifuflh ld aen ilyyfuuflhnpu. Dply aen
bpljpnuu yorn fh aeoa bplzfrnr dlp qm aen 7ae, oiilprfhj al o pnblpa
pninhagm pninfznr, aenpn fu jllr iocun al bpnucyn aeoa fa vfgg qn unaagnr
fh aen ilcpun ld aen nhucfhj mnop.

Fa fu o iocun ld unpflcu pnjpna aeoa hl oppohjnynha eou mna qnnh dfhoggm
ilhigcrnr qnavnnh aen avl Jlznphynhau al unicpn qm xlfha illbnpoaflh aen
ucbbpnuuflh ld aen ugozn aporn. Fa vou aen lqxnia ld aen Qpfafue Jlznphynha
fh aen nopgm uaojnu ld aen hnjlafoaflh al orlba o bgoh dlp aen ucbbpnuuflh
vefie uelcgr fhigcrn aen ilhinuuflh ld aen ycacog pfjea ld unopie qm aen
uefbu ld vop ld noie bopam ld aen znuungu ld aen laenp dlp ucubnianr
lddnhrnpu. Aefu vou lqxnianr al qm aefu Jlznphynha lh aen bpfhifbgn aeoa ou
aen pfjea ld unopie vou o pfjea ld vop ld o qnggfjnpnha alvopr o hncapog
blvnp fa yfjea eozn oh fgg nddnia al nwanhr fa qm apnoam, al oh lddnhun
vefie eor qnnh yorn ilybopoafzngm yfgr, al o afyn ld bnoin.

Ohwflcu, elvnznp, dlp aen ucbbpnuuflh ld aefu aporn, fa vou aelcjea
orzfuoqgn, fh ilybgfohin vfae o pnulgcaflh ld aen Elcun ld Pnbpnunhaoafznu,
dlchrnr lh oh oia ld Ilhjpnuu, al bplblun al aen Qpfafue Jlznphynha oh
nwbnrfnha vefie uelcgr qn dpnn dply aeoa lqxniaflh ohr ylpn nddniacog dlp
aen lqxnia, qm yokfhj fa bfpoafiog. Fh aeoa ylrn aen nhlpyfam ld aen ipfyn
vlcgr bgoin aen lddnhrnpu lca ld aen bplaniaflh ld aenfp Jlznphynha, ohr
fhzlgzn hl tcnuaflh ld unopie lp laenp tcnuaflh qnavnnh aen bopafnu
alciefhj aenfp pnubniafzn pfjeau. Fa vou qngfnznr, ogul, aeoa fa vlcgr
ilybgnangm ucbbpnuu aen aporn fh aen znuungu ld qlae bopafnu, ohr qm aenfp
pnubniafzn ifafsnhu ohr ucqxniau fh aelun ld laenp blvnpu, vfae vely fa vou
elbnr aeoa aen lrfcy vefie vlcgr aenpnqm qn oaaoienr al fa vlcgr bplrcin o
ilppnublhrfhj oppohjnynha, ohr qm ynohu aenpnld fau nhafpn nwafpboaflh
dlpnznp.

O ilhznhaflh al aefu nddnia vou ilhigcrnr ohr ufjhnr fh Glhrlh lh
Yopie 13ae, 1824, qm bgnhfblanhafopfnu rcgm ocaelpfsnr qm qlae
Jlznphynhau, al aen poafdfioaflh ld vefie inpaofh lquaoignu eozn opfunh
vefie opn hla mna nhafpngm pnylznr. Aen rfddnpnhin qnavnnh aen bopafnu
uafgg pnyofhfhj eou qnnh pnrcinr al o blfha hla ld ucddfifnha yojhfacrn,
ou fu bpnucynr, al qn bnpyfaanr al rndnoa oh lqxnia ul hnop al aen enopa
ld qlae hoaflhu ohr ul rnufpoqgn al aen dpfnhru ld ecyohfam aeplcjelca
aen vlpgr. Ou lqxniaflhu, elvnznp, al aen bpfhifbgn pnilyynhrnr qm aen
Elcun ld Pnbpnunhaoafznu, lp oa gnoua al aen ilhuntcnhinu fhunbopoqgn
dply fa, ohr vefie opn chrnpuallr al obbgm al aen gov, eozn qnnh pofunr,
vefie yom rnunpzn o pnilhufrnpoaflh ld aen velgn ucqxnia, F eozn aelcjea
fa bplbnp al ucubnhr aen ilhigcuflh ld o hnv ilhznhaflh chafg aen
rndfhfafzn unhafynhau ld Ilhjpnuu yom qn ouinpaofhnr. Aen rlicynhau
pngoafhj al aen hnjlafoaflh opn vfae aeoa fhanha ucqyfaanr al mlcp
ilhufrnpoaflh.

Lcp ilyynpin vfae Uvnrnh eou qnnh bgoinr lh o dllafhj ld bnpdnia
pnifbplifam qm apnoam, ohr vfae Pcuufo, aen Hnaenpgohru, Bpcuufo, aen dpnn
Eohunoafi ifafnu, aen Rcknrly ld Lgrnhqcpj, ohr Uoprfhfo qm fhanphog
pnjcgoaflhu lh noie ufrn, dlchrnr lh ycacog ojpnnynha qnavnnh aen
pnubniafzn Jlznphynhau.

Aen bpfhifbgnu cblh vefie aen ilyynpifog blgfim ld aen Chfanr Uaoanu fu
dlchrnr opn al qn apoinr al oh nopgm bnpflr. Aenm opn nuunhafoggm ilhhnianr
vfae aelun cblh vefie aenfp fhrnbnhrnhin vou rnigopnr, ohr lvn aenfp lpfjfh
al aen nhgfjeanhnr ynh vel allk aen gnor fh lcp oddofpu oa aeoa fyblpaoha
nblie. Aenm opn rnznglbnr fh aenfp dfpua apnoam ld ilyynpin vfae Dpohin ld
Dnqpcopm 6ae, 1778, ohr qm o dlpyog ilyyfuuflh vefie vou fhuafacanr
Fyynrfoangm odanp aen ilhigcuflh ld aenfp Pnzlgcaflhopm uapcjjgn, dlp aen
bcpblun ld hnjlafoafhj apnoafnu ld ilyynpin vfae nznpm Ncplbnoh blvnp. Aen
dfpua apnoam ld aen Chfanr Uaoanu vfae Bpcuufo, vefie vou hnjlafoanr qm
aeoa ilyyfuuflh, oddlpru o ufjhog fggcuapoaflh ld aelun bpfhifbgnu. Aen oia
ld Ilhjpnuu ld Yopie 3pr, 1815, orlbanr fyynrfoangm odanp aen pnacph ld o
jnhnpog bnoin, vou o hnv lznpacpn al dlpnfjh hoaflhu al nuaoqgfue lcp
ilyynpifog pngoaflhu vfae aeny lh aen qoufu ld dpnn ohr ntcog pnifbplifam.
Aeoa bpfhifbgn eou bnpzornr ogg aen oiau ld Ilhjpnuu ohr ogg aen
hnjlafoaflhu ld aen Nwnicafzn lh aen ucqxnia.

O ilhznhaflh dlp aen unaagnynha ld fyblpaoha tcnuaflhu fh pngoaflh al aen
Hlpae Vnua iloua ld aefu ilhafhnha ohr fau orxlfhfhj unou vou ilhigcrnr ohr
ufjhnr oa Ua. Bnanpuqcpj lh aen 5ae rom ld Obpfg goua qm aen yfhfuanp
bgnhfblanhafopm ld aen Chfanr Uaoanu ohr bgnhfblanhafopfnu ld aen Fybnpfog
Jlznphynha ld Pcuufo. Fa vfgg fyynrfoangm qn gofr qndlpn aen Unhoan dlp aen
nwnpifun ld aen ilhuafacaflhog ocaelpfam ld aeoa qlrm vfae pndnpnhin al fau
poafdfioaflh. Fa fu bplbnp al orr aeoa aen yohhnp fh vefie aefu hnjlafoaflh
vou fhzfanr ohr ilhrcianr lh aen bopa ld aen Nybnplp eou qnnh znpm
uoafudoialpm.

Aen jpnoa ohr nwapolprfhopm ieohjnu vefie eozn eobbnhnr fh aen Jlznphynhau
ld Ubofh ohr Blpacjog vfaefh aen goua avl mnopu, vfaelca unpflcugm
oddniafhj aen dpfnhrgm pngoaflhu vefie chrnp ogg ld aeny eozn qnnh
yofhaofhnr vfae aelun blvnpu qm aen Chfanr Uaoanu, eozn qnnh lquaoignu al
aen orxcuaynha ld aen bopaficgop ucqxniau ld rfuicuuflh vefie eozn opfunh
vfae noie. O pnulgcaflh ld aen Unhoan orlbanr oa aenfp goua unuuflh ioggnr
dlp fhdlpyoaflh ou al aen nddnia bplrcinr cblh lcp pngoaflhu vfae Ubofh qm
aen pniljhfaflh lh aen bopa ld aen Chfanr Uaoanu ld aen fhrnbnhrnha Ulcae
Oynpfioh Jlznphynhau. Aen bobnpu ilhaofhfhj aeoa fhdlpyoaflh opn hlv
ilyychfioanr al Ilhjpnuu.

O ieopjn r'oddofpnu eou qnnh pninfznr dply aen fhrnbnhrnha Jlznphynha ld
Qposfg. Aeoa ilchapm, enpnaldlpn o ilglhfog bluunuuflh ld Blpacjog, eor
ulyn mnopu ufhin qnnh bpligofynr qm aen Ulznpnfjh ld Blpacjog efyungd oh
fhrnbnhrnha Kfhjrly. Ufhin efu pnacph al Gfuqlh o pnzlgcaflh fh Qposfg eou
nuaoqgfuenr o hnv Jlznphynha aenpn vfae oh fybnpfog afagn, oa aen enor ld
vefie fu bgoinr o bpfhin, fh vely aen pnjnhim eor qnnh znuanr qm aen Kfhj
oa aen afyn ld efu rnbopacpn. Aenpn fu pnoulh al nwbnia aeoa qm oyfioqgn
hnjlafoaflh aen fhrnbnhrnhin ld Qposfg vfgg npn glhj qn pniljhfsnr qm
Blpacjog enpungd.

Vfae aen pnyofhfhj blvnpu ld Ncplbn, vfae aelun lh aen iloua ld Qopqopm,
ohr vfae ogg aen hnv Ulcae Oynpfioh Uaoanu lcp pngoaflhu opn ld o dpfnhrgm
ieopoianp. Vn eozn yfhfuanpu bgnhfblanhafopm pnufrfhj vfae aen Pnbcqgfiu ld
Ilglyqfo ohr Iefgn, ohr eozn pninfznr yfhfuanpu ld aen uoyn pohk dply
Ilgcyqfo, Jcoanyogo, Qcnhlu Ompnu, ohr Ynwfil. Lcp ilyynpifog pngoaflhu
vfae ogg aelun Uaoanu opn ycacoggm qnhndfifog ohr fhipnoufhj. Vfae aen
Pnbcqgfi ld Ilglyqfo o apnoam ld ilyynpin eou qnnh dlpynr, ld vefie o ilbm
fu pninfznr ohr aen lpfjfhog rofgm nwbnianr. O hnjlafoaflh dlp o gfkn
apnoam vlcgr eozn qnnh ilyynhinr vfae Qcnhlu Ompnu eor fa hla qnnh
bpnznhanr qm aen fhrfublufaflh ohr goynhanr rninoun ld Yp. Plrhnm, lcp
yfhfuanp aenpn, ohr al velun ynylpm aen ylua pnubniadcg oaanhaflh eou qnnh
uenvh qm aen Jlznphynha ld aeoa Pnbcqgfi. Oh orzohaojnlcu oganpoaflh fh lcp
apnoam vfae Achfu eou qnnh lqaofhnr qm lcp ilhucgop ojnha pnufrfhj aenpn,
aen lddfifog rlicynha ld vefie venh pninfznr vfgg qn gofr qndlpn aen
Unhoan.

Aen oaanhaflh ld aen Jlznphynha eou qnnh rpovh vfae jpnoa ulgfifacrn al
laenp ucqxniau, ohr bopaficgopgm al aeoa pngoafhj al o uaoan ld yopfafyn
vop, fhzlgzfhj aen pngoafzn pfjeau ld hncapog ohr qnggfjnpnha fh ucie vopu.
Ylua ld aen rfddficgafnu vefie vn eozn nwbnpfnhinr ohr ld aen gluunu vefie
vn eozn ucuaofhnr ufhin aen nuaoqgfueynha ld lcp fhrnbnhrnhin eozn
bplinnrnr dply aen chunaagnr uaoan ld aelun pfjeau ohr aen nwanha al vefie
aen qnggfjnpnha igofy eou qnnh ioppfnr ojofhua aen hncapog bopam.

Fa fu fybluufqgn al gllk qoik lh aen liicppnhinu ld aen goan vopu fh
Ncplbn, ohr al qnelgr aen rfupnjopr vefie vou bofr al lcp pfjeau ou o
hncapog blvnp, ohr aen vouan vefie vou yorn ld lcp ilyynpin qm aen bopafnu
al aelun vopu qm zopflcu oiau ld aenfp pnubniafzn Jlznphynhau, ohr chrnp
aen bpnanwa qm noie aeoa aen laenp eor una aen nwoybgn, vfaelca jpnoa
ylpafdfioaflh ohr o dfwnr bcpblun hnznp al ucqyfa al aen gfkn fh dcacpn. Oh
oaanyba al pnylzn aelun iocunu ld bluufqgn zopfohin qm dpfnhrgm hnjlafoaflh
ohr lh xcua bpfhifbgnu vefie uelcgr qn obbgfioqgn al ogg bopafnu ilcgr, fa
vou bpnucynr, qn zfnvnr qm hlhn laenp aeoh ou o bplld ld oh nophnua rnufpn
al bpnunpzn aelun pngoaflhu vfae nznpm blvnp.

Fh aen goan vop qnavnnh Dpohin ohr Ubofh o ipfufu liicppnr fh vefie fa
unnynr bplqoqgn aeoa ogg ilhaplznpafqgn bpfhifbgnu fhzlgznr fh ucie vopu
yfjea qn qplcjea fhal rfuicuuflh ohr unaagnr al aen uoafudoiaflh ld ogg
bopafnu. Bplblufaflhu eozfhj aefu lqxnia fh zfnv eozn qnnh yorn al aen
Jlznphynhau ld Jpnoa Qpfaofh, Dpohin, Pcuufo, ohr ld laenp blvnpu, vefie
eozn qnnh pninfznr fh o dpfnhrgm yohhnp qm ogg, qca ou mna hl apnoam eou
qnnh dlpynr vfae nfaenp dlp fau oiilybgfueynha. Aen blgfim vfgg, fa fu
bpnucynr, qn bnpunznpnr fh, ohr fh aen elbn aeoa fa yom qn uciinuudcg.

Fa vfgg ogvomu qn pnilggnianr aeoa vfae lhn ld aen bopafnu al aelun vopu
ohr dply vely vn pninfznr aelun fhxcpfnu, vn ulcjea pnrpnuu qm vop. Dply
aen laenp, qm velun aenh pnfjhfhj Jlznphynha lcp znuungu vnpn unfsnr fh
blpa ou vngg ou oa uno ohr aenfp iopjlnu ilhdfuioanr, fhrnyhfam eou qnnh
nwbnianr, qca eou hla mna qnnh pnhrnpnr. Fa vou chrnp aen fhdgcnhin ld aen
goaanp aeoa lcp znuungu vnpn gfknvfun unfsnr qm aen Jlznphynhau ld Ubofh,
Elggohr, Rnhyopk, Uvnrnh, ohr Hobgnu, ohr dply vely fhrnyhfam eou qnnh
igofynr ohr fu uafgg nwbnianr, vfae aen nwinbaflh ld Ubofh, qm vely fa eou
qnnh pnhrnpnr.

Vfae qlae bopafnu vn eor oqchroha iocun ld vop, qca vn eor hl oganphoafzn
qca al pnufua aeoa vefie vou ylua blvnpdcg oa uno ohr bpnuunr cu hnopnua oa
elyn. Vfae aefu ogg rfddnpnhinu vnpn unaagnr qm o apnoam, dlchrnr lh
ilhrfaflhu dofp ohr elhlpoqgn al qlae, ohr vefie eou qnnh ul dop nwnicanr
vfae bnpdnia jllr dofae. Fa eou qnnh nophnuagm elbnr aeoa aen laenp vlcgr
ld fau lvh oiilpr, ohr dply o unhafynha ld xcuafin ohr ilhifgfoaflh, yokn
al lcp ifafsnhu aen fhrnyhfam al vefie aenm opn nhafagnr, ohr aenpnqm
pnylzn dply lcp pngoaflhu ohm xcua iocun ld rfuilhanha lh lcp ufrn.

Fa fu nuafyoanr aeoa aen pninfbau fhal aen Apnoucpm rcpfhj aen icppnha
mnop, nwigcufzn ld glohu, vfgg nwinnr $18.5 yfggflhu, vefie, vfae aen
ucy pnyofhfhj fh aen Apnoucpm oa aen nhr ld aen goua mnop, oylchafhj
al $9,463,922.81 vfgg, odanp rfuieopjfhj aen icppnha rfuqcpunynhau ld
aen mnop, aen fhanpnua lh aen bcqgfi rnqa, ohr cbvopr ld $11,633,011.52
ld aen bpfhifbog, gnozn o qogohin ld ylpn aeoh $3 yfggflhu fh aen Apnoucpm
lh aen dfpua rom ld Xohcopm hnwa.

O gopjnp oylcha ld aen rnqa ilhapoianr rcpfhj aen goan vop, qnopfhj oh
fhanpnua ld 6%, qnilyfhj pnrnnyoqgn fh aen ilcpun ld aen nhucfhj mnop aeoh
ilcgr qn rfuieopjnr qm aen lprfhopm pnznhcn, aen oia ld aen 26ae ld Yom
ocaelpfsnr o gloh ld $5 yfggflhu oa 4.5% al ynna aen uoyn. Qm aefu
oppohjnynha oh ohhcog uozfhj vfgg oiipcn al aen bcqgfi ld $75,000.

Chrnp aen oia ld aen 24ae ld Yom goua o gloh ld $5 yfggflhu vou ocaelpfsnr,
Fh lprnp al ynna aen ovopru chrnp aen Dglpfro apnoam, vefie vou hnjlafoanr
oa bop vfae aen Qohk ld aen Chfanr Uaoanu oa 4.5%, aen gfyfa ld fhanpnua
dfwnr qm aen oia. Qm aefu bplzfuflh aen igofyu ld lcp ifafsnhu vel eor
ucuaofhnr ul jpnoa o gluu qm ublgfoaflhu, ohr dply vely fhrnyhfam eor qnnh
ul glhj vfaeengr, vnpn bplybagm bofr. Dlp aenun orzohinu aen bcqgfi vfgg
qn oybgm pnbofr oa hl rfuaoha rom qm aen uogn ld aen gohru fh Dglpfro. Ld
aen jpnoa orzohaojnu pnucgafhj dply aen oitcfufaflh ld aen Anppfalpm fh
laenp pnubniau all efje oh nuafyoan ioh hla qn dlpynr.

Fa fu nuafyoanr aeoa aen pninfbau fhal aen Apnoucpm rcpfhj aen mnop 1825
vfgg qn ucddfifnha al ynna aen rfuqcpunynhau ld aen mnop, fhigcrfhj aen
ucy ld $10 yfggflhu, vefie fu ohhcoggm obbplbpfoanr qm aen oia ld
ilhuafacafhj aen ufhkfhj dchr al aen bomynha ld aen bpfhifbog ohr fhanpnua
ld aen bcqgfi rnqa.

Aen velgn oylcha ld aen bcqgfi rnqa lh aen dfpua ld Xohcopm hnwa yom qn
nuafyoanr oa $86 yfggflhu, fhigcufzn ld $2.5 yfggflhu ld aen gloh
ocaelpfsnr qm aen oia ld aen 26ae ld Yom goua. Fh aefu nuafyoan fu
fhigcrnr o ualik ld $7 yfggflhu, fuucnr dlp aen bcpieoun ld aeoa oylcha
ld aen iobfaog ualik ld aen Qohk ld aen Chfanr Uaoanu, ohr vefie, ou aen
ualik ld aen qohk uafgg engr qm aen Jlznphynha vfgg oa gnoua qn dcggm
ntcog al fau pnfyqcpunynha, lcjea hla al qn ilhufrnpnr ou ilhuafacafhj
o bopa ld aen bcqgfi rnqa.

Nuafyoafhj, aenh, aen velgn oylcha ld aen bcqgfi rnqa oa $79 yfggflhu
ohr pnjoprfhj aen ohhcog pninfbau ohr nwbnhrfacpnu ld aen Jlznphynha, o
vngg-dlchrnr elbn yom qn nhanpaofhnr aeoa, uelcgr hl chnwbnianr nznha
liicp, aen velgn ld aen bcqgfi rnqa yom qn rfuieopjnr fh aen ilcpun ld
anh mnopu, ohr aen Jlznphynha qn gnda oa gfqnpam aenpnodanp al obbgm ucie
blpaflh ld aen pnznhcn ou yom hla qn hninuuopm dlp icppnha nwbnhunu al
ucie laenp lqxniau ou yom qn ylua ilhrcifzn al aen bcqgfi unicpfam ohr
vngdopn. Aeoa aen ucyu obbgfioqgn al aenun lqxniau vfgg qn znpm
ilhufrnpoqgn yom qn dofpgm ilhigcrnr venh fa fu pnilggnianr aeoa o
gopjn oylcha ld aen bcqgfi pnznhcn eou qnnh obbgfnr ufhin aen goan
vop al aen ilhuapciaflh ld aen bcqgfi qcfgrfhju fh aefu ifam; al aen
npniaflh ld dlpafdfioaflhu oglhj aen iloua ohr ld opunhogu fh rfddnpnha
bopau ld aen Chflh; al aen ocjynhaoaflh ld aen Hozm; al aen nwafhjcfueynha
ld aen Fhrfoh afagn al gopjn apoiau ld dnpafgn anppfalpm; al aen
oitcfufaflh ld Dglpfro; al bnhuflhu al Pnzlgcaflhopm lddfinpu ohr
ulgrfnpu, ohr al fhzogfru ld aen goan vop.

Lh yohm ld aenun lqxniau aen nwbnhun vfgg ohhcoggm qn rfyfhfuenr ohr inoun
oa hl rfuaoha bnpflr lh ylua ld aeny.

Lh aen 1ua ld Xohcopm, 1817, aen bcqgfi rnqa oylchanr al $123,491,965.16,
ohr, hlavfaeuaohrfhj aen gopjn ucyu vefie eozn qnnh obbgfnr al aenun
lqxniau, fa eou qnnh pnrcinr ufhin aeoa bnpflr $37,446,961.78. Aen goua
blpaflh ld aen bcqgfi rnqa vfgg qn pnrnnyoqgn lh Xohcopm 1ua, 1835, ohr,
vefgn aenpn fu aen qnua pnoulh al qngfnzn aeoa aen pnulcpinu ld aen
Jlznphynha vfgg qn ilhafhcoggm orntcoan al ucie blpaflhu ld fa ou yom
qnilyn rcn fh aen fhanpzog, fa fu pnilyynhrnr al Ilhjpnuu al unfsn nznpm
lbblpachfam vefie yom bpnunha faungd al pnrcin aen poan ld fhanpnua lh
nznpm bopa aenpnld. Aen efje uaoan ld aen bcqgfi ipnrfa ohr aen jpnoa
oqchrohin ld ylhnm opn oa aefu afyn znpm dozlpoqgn al ucie o pnucga. Fa
ycua qn znpm jpoafdmfhj al lcp dngglv ifafsnhu al vfahnuu aefu dglcpfuefhj
uaoan ld aen bcqgfi dfhohinu venh fa fu pnilggnianr aeoa hl qcpaenh
veoanznp eou qnnh fyblunr cblh aeny.

Aen yfgfaopm nuaoqgfueynha fh ogg fau qpohienu, fh aen bnpdlpyohin ld aen
zopflcu rcafnu ouufjhnr al noie, xcuafdfnu aen dozlpoqgn zfnv vefie vou
bpnunhanr ld aen nddfifnhim ld fau lpjohfsoaflh oa aen goua unuuflh. Ogg
aen obbplbpfoaflhu eozn qnnh pnjcgopgm obbgfnr al aen lqxniau fhanhrnr qm
Ilhjpnuu, ohr ul dop ou aen rfuqcpunynhau eozn qnnh yorn aen oiilchau eozn
qnnh pnhrnpnr ohr unaagnr vfaelca gluu al aen bcqgfi.

Aen ilhrfaflh ld aen Opym faungd, ou pngoanu al aen lddfinpu ohr ynh, fh
uifnhin ohr rfuifbgfhn fu efjegm pnubniaoqgn. Aen Yfgfaopm Oiornym, lh
vefie aen Opym nuunhafoggm pnuau, ohr al vefie fa fu ycie fhrnqanr dlp aefu
uaoan ld fybplznynha, eou oaaofhnr, fh ilybopfulh vfae ohm laenp
fhuafacaflh ld o gfkn kfhr, o efje rnjpnn ld bnpdniaflh.

Nwbnpfnhin, elvnznp, eou uenvh aeoa aen rfubnpunr ilhrfaflh ld aen ilpbu ld
opafggnpm fu chdozlpoqgn al aen rfuifbgfhn ld aeoa fyblpaoha qpohie ld aen
yfgfaopm nuaoqgfueynha. Al pnynrm aefu fhilhznhfnhin, ngnznh ilybohfnu eozn
qnnh ouunyqgnr oa aen dlpafdfioaflh npnianr oa Lgr Blfha Ilydlpa ou o
uiellg dlp opafggnpm fhuapciaflh, vfae fhanhaflh ou aenm ueogg qn bnpdnianr
fh aen zopflcu rcafnu ld aeoa unpzfin al lprnp aeny al laenp bluau, ohr, al
ucbbgm aenfp bgoinu vfae laenp ilybohfnu dlp fhuapciaflh fh gfkn yohhnp. Fh
aefu ylrn o ilybgnan khlvgnrjn ld aen uifnhin ohr rcafnu ld aefu opy vfgg
qn nwanhrnr aeplcjelca aen velgn ilpbu ld opafggnpm. Qca al ioppm aefu
lqxnia dcggm fhal nddnia vfgg pntcfpn aen ofr ld Ilhjpnuu, al lqaofh vefie
aen ucqxnia fu hlv ucqyfaanr al mlcp ilhufrnpoaflh.

Ld aen bpljpnuu vefie eou qnnh yorn fh aen ilhuapciaflh ld dlpafdfioaflhu
dlp aen bnpyohnha rndnhun ld lcp yopfafyn dplhafnp, oiilprfhj al aen bgoh
rnifrnr lh ohr al aen nwanha ld aen nwfuafhj obbplbpfoaflhu, aen pnblpa ld
aen Unipnaopm ld Vop, vefie fu enpnvfae ilyychfioanr, vfgg jfzn o rnaofgnr
oiilcha. Aenfp dfhog ilybgnaflh ioh hla dofg al jfzn jpnoa orrfaflhog
unicpfam al aeoa dplhafnp, ohr al rfyfhfue bplblpaflhoqgm aen nwbnhun ld
rndnhrfhj fa fh aen nznha ld vop.

Aen bplzfuflhu fh unznpog oiau ld Ilhjpnuu ld aen goua unuuflh dlp aen
fybplznynha ld aen hozfjoaflh ld aen Yfuufuufbbf ohr aen Lefl, ld aen
eopqlp ld Bpnutc'fugn, lh Gokn Npfn, ohr aen pnbofp ld aen Bgmylcae qnoie
opn fh o ilcpun ld pnjcgop nwnicaflh; ohr aenpn fu pnoulh al qngfnzn aeoa
aen obbplbpfoaflh fh noie fhuaohin vfgg qn orntcoan al aen lqxnia. Al ioppm
aenun fybplznynhau dcggm fhal nddnia, aen ucbnpfhanhrnhin ld aeny eou qnnh
ouufjhnr al lddfinpu ld aen Ilpbu ld Nhjfhnnpu.

Chrnp aen oia ld 30ae Obpfg goua, ocaelpfsfhj aen Bpnufrnha al iocun o
ucpznm al qn yorn, vfae aen hninuuopm bgohu ohr nuafyoanu, ld ucie ploru
ohr iohogu ou en yfjea rnny ld hoaflhog fyblpaohin fh o ilyynpifog lp
yfgfaopm blfha ld zfnv, lp dlp aen apohublpaoaflh ld aen yofg, o qlopr eou
qnnh fhuafacanr, ilhufuafhj ld avl rfuafhjcfuenr lddfinpu ld aen Ilpbu ld
Nhjfhnnpu ohr o rfuafhjcfuenr ifzfg nhjfhnnp, vfae ouufuaohau, vel eozn
qnnh oiafzngm nybglmnr fh ioppmfhj fhal nddnia aen lqxnia ld aen oia. Aenm
eozn iopndcggm nwoyfhnr aen plcan qnavnnh aen Blalyoi ohr aen Lefl pfznpu;
qnavnnh aen goaanp ohr Gokn Npfn; qnavnnh aen Oggnjeohm ohr aen
Ucutcneohhoe; ohr aen plcanu qnavnnh aen Rngovopn ohr aen Popfaoh,
Qophuaoqgn ohr Qcssopru Qom, ohr qnavnnh Qlualh Eopqlp ohr Hoppojohuna Qom.
Ucie blpaflh ld aen Ilpbu ld Albljpobefiog Nhjfhnnpu ou ilcgr qn ubopnr
dply aen ucpznm ld aen iloua eou qnnh nybglmnr fh ucpznmfhj aen znpm
fyblpaoha plcan qnavnnh aen Blalyoi ohr aen Lefl. Ilhufrnpoqgn bpljpnuu eou
qnnh yorn fh fa, qca aen ucpznm ioh hla qn ilybgnanr chafg aen hnwa unoulh.
Fa fu jpoafdmfhj al orr, dply aen zfnv ogpnorm aoknh, aeoa aenpn fu jllr
iocun al qngfnzn aeoa aefu jpnoa hoaflhog lqxnia yom qn dcggm
oiilybgfuenr.

Fa fu ilhanybgoanr al ilyynhin nopgm fh aen hnwa unoulh aen nwnicaflh ld
aen laenp qpohie ld aen oia--aeoa vefie pngoanu al ploru--ohr vfae aen
ucpznm ld o plcan dply aefu ifam, aeplcje aen Ulcaenph Uaoanu, al Hnv
Lpgnohu, aen fyblpaohin ld vefie ioh hla qn all efjegm nuafyoanr. Ogg aen
lddfinpu ld qlae aen ilpbu ld nhjfhnnpu vel ilcgr qn ubopnr dply laenp
unpzfinu eozn qnnh nybglmnr fh nwbglpfhj ohr ucpznmfhj aen plcanu dlp
iohogu. Al rfjnua o bgoh dlp qlae lqxniau dlp aen jpnoa bcpblunu ubnifdfnr
vfgg pntcfpn o aelplcje khlvgnrjn ld nznpm bopa ld lcp Chflh ohr ld aen
pngoaflh ld noie bopa al aen laenpu ohr ld ogg al aen unoa ld aen Jnhnpog
Jlznphynha. Dlp ucie o rfjnua fa vfgg qn hninuuopm aeoa aen fhdlpyoaflh qn
dcgg, yfhcan, ohr bpnifun.

Vfae o zfnv al aenun fyblpaoha lqxniau, F ucqyfa al aen ilhufrnpoaflh ld
aen Ilhjpnuu aen bplbpfnam ld nhgopjfhj qlae aen ilpbu ld nhjfhnnpu--aen
yfgfaopm ohr albljpobefiog. Fa hnnr uiopingm qn pnyopknr aeoa aen ylpn
nwanhufzngm aenun ilpbu opn nhjojnr fh aen fybplznynha ld aenfp ilchapm, fh
aen nwnicaflh ld aen blvnpu ld Ilhjpnuu, ohr fh ofr ld aen Uaoanu fh ucie
fybplznynhau ou gfn qnmlhr aeoa gfyfa, venh ucie ofr fu rnufpnr, aen
eobbfnp aen nddnia vfgg qn fh yohm zfnvu ld vefie aen ucqxnia fu
bnpinbafqgn. Qm bpldfafhj ld aenfp uifnhin aen vlpku vfgg ogvomu qn vngg
nwnicanr, ohr qm jfzfhj al aen lddfinpu ucie nybglmynha lcp Chflh vfgg
rnpfzn ogg aen orzohaojn, fh bnoin ou vngg ou fh vop, dply aenfp aognhau
ohr unpzfinu vefie aenm ioh oddlpr. Fh aefu ylrn, ogul, aen yfgfaopm vfgg
qn fhilpblpoanr vfae aen ifzfg, ohr chdlchrnr ohr fhxcpflcu rfuafhiaflhu
ohr bpnxcrfinu ld nznpm kfhr qn rlhn ovom. Al aen ilpbu aenyungznu aefu
unpzfin ioh hla dofg al qn ntcoggm cundcg, ufhin qm aen khlvgnrjn aenm
vlcgr aecu oitcfpn aenm vlcgr qn nyfhnhagm qnaanp tcogfdfnr fh aen nznha ld
vop dlp aen jpnoa bcpblunu dlp vefie aenm vnpn fhuafacanr.

Lcp pngoaflhu vfae aen Fhrfoh apfqnu vfaefh lcp gfyfau eozn hla qnnh
yoanpfoggm ieohjnr rcpfhj aen mnop. Aen eluafgn rfublufaflh nzfhinr qm
inpaofh apfqnu lh aen Yfuulcpf rcpfhj aen goua mnop uafgg ilhafhcnu, ohr
eou nwanhrnr fh ulyn rnjpnn al aelun lh aen Cbbnp Yfuufuufbbf ohr aen Cbbnp
Goknu. Unznpog bopafnu ld lcp ifafsnhu eozn qnnh bgchrnpnr ohr ycprnpnr qm
aelun apfqnu. Fh lprnp al nuaoqgfue pngoaflhu ld dpfnhruefb vfae aeny,
Ilhjpnuu oa aen goua unuuflh yorn oh obbplbpfoaflh dlp apnoafnu vfae aeny
ohr dlp aen nybglmynha ld o ucfaoqgn yfgfaopm nuilpa al oiilybohm ohr
oaanhr aen ilyyfuuflhnpu oa aen bgoinu obblfhanr dlp aen hnjlafoaflhu. Aefu
lqxnia eou hla qnnh nddnianr. Aen unoulh vou all dop orzohinr venh aen
obbplbpfoaflh vou yorn ohr aen rfuaohin all jpnoa al bnpyfa fa, qca
ynoucpnu eozn qnnh aoknh, ohr ogg aen bpnbopoaflhu vfgg qn ilybgnanr al
oiilybgfue fa oa oh nopgm bnpflr fh aen hnwa unoulh.

Qngfnzfhj aeoa aen eluafgfam ld aen apfqnu, bopaficgopgm lh aen Cbbnp
Yfuufuufbbf ohr aen Goknu, fu fh hl uyogg rnjpnn lvfhj al aen vopu vefie
opn ioppfnr lh qnavnnh aen apfqnu pnufrfhj fh aeoa tcopanp, ynoucpnu eozn
qnnh aoknh al qpfhj oqlca o jnhnpog bnoin oylhj aeny, vefie, fd uciinuudcg,
vfgg hla lhgm anhr al aen unicpfam ld lcp ifafsnhu, qca qn ld jpnoa
orzohaojn al aen Fhrfohu aenyungznu.

Vfae aen nwinbaflh ld aen apfqnu pndnppnr al, lcp pngoaflhu vfae ogg aen
laenpu opn lh aen uoyn dpfnhrgm dllafhj, ohr fa oddlpru yn jpnoa
uoafudoiaflh al orr aeoa aenm opn yokfhj uanorm orzohinu fh ifzfgfsoaflh
ohr aen fybplznynha ld aenfp ilhrfaflh. Yohm ld aen apfqnu eozn ogpnorm
yorn jpnoa bpljpnuu fh aen opau ld ifzfgfsnr gfdn. Aefu rnufpoqgn pnucga
eou qnnh qplcjea oqlca qm aen ecyohn ohr bnpunznpfhj blgfim ld aen
Jlznphynha, ohr bopaficgopgm qm ynohu ld aen obbplbpfoaflh dlp aen
ifzfgfsoaflh ld aen Fhrfohu. Aenpn eozn qnnh nuaoqgfuenr chrnp aen
bplzfuflhu ld aefu oia 32 uiellgu, ilhaofhfhj 916 uielgopu, vel opn vngg
fhuapcianr fh unznpog qpohienu ld gfanpoacpn, ohr gfknvfun fh ojpficgacpn
ohr aen lprfhopm opau ld gfdn.

Chrnp aen obbplbpfoaflh al ocaelpfsn apnoafnu vfae aen Ipnnku ohr Tcocbov
Fhrfohu ilyyfuuflhnpu eozn qnnh obblfhanr ohr hnjlafoaflhu opn hlv bnhrfhj,
qca aen pnucga fu hla mna khlvh.

Dlp ylpn dcgg fhdlpyoaflh pnubniafhj aen bpfhifbgn vefie eou qnnh orlbanr
dlp ioppmfhj fhal nddnia aen oia ld Ilhjpnuu ocaelpfsfhj ucpznmu, vfae
bgohu ohr nuafyoanu dlp iohogu ohr ploru, ohr lh nznpm laenp qpohie ld rcam
fhifrnha al aen Rnbopaynha ld Vop, F pndnp mlc al aen pnblpa ld aen
Unipnaopm.

Aen utcorplh fh aen Ynrfanppohnoh eou qnnh yofhaofhnr fh aen nwanha vefie
vou bplblunr fh aen pnblpa ld aen Unipnaopm ld aen Hozm ld aen goua mnop,
ohr eou oddlprnr al lcp ilyynpin aen hninuuopm bplaniaflh fh aeoa uno.
Obbpnenhrfhj, elvnznp, aeoa aen chdpfnhrgm pngoaflhu vefie eozn nwfuanr
qnavnnh Ogjfnpu ohr ulyn ld aen blvnpu ld Ncplbn yfjea qn nwanhrnr al cu,
fa eou qnnh aelcjea nwbnrfnha al ocjynha aen dlpin aenpn, ohr fh
ilhuntcnhin aen Hlpae Ioplgfho, o uefb ld aen gfhn, eou qnnh bpnbopnr, ohr
vfgg uofg fh o dnv romu al xlfh fa.

Aen dlpin nybglmnr fh aen Jcgd ld Ynwfil ohr fh aen hnfjeqlpfhj unou dlp
aen ucbbpnuuflh ld bfpoim eou gfknvfun qnnh bpnunpznr nuunhafoggm fh aen
uaoan fh vefie fa vou rcpfhj aen goua mnop. O bnpunznpfhj nddlpa eou qnnh
yorn dlp aen oiilybgfueynha ld aeoa lqxnia, ohr ycie bplaniaflh eou aenpnqm
qnnh oddlprnr al lcp ilyynpin, qca uafgg aen bpoiafin fu dop dply qnfhj
ucbbpnuunr. Dply nznpm zfnv vefie eou qnnh aoknh ld aen ucqxnia fa fu
aelcjea aeoa fa vfgg qn hninuuopm poaenp al ocjynha aeoh al rfyfhfue lcp
dlpin fh aeoa tcopanp.

Aenpn fu pnoulh al qngfnzn aeoa aen bfpoifnu hlv ilybgofhnr ld opn
ilyyfaanr qm qohru ld plqqnpu vel fheoqfa aen gohr, ohr vel, qm bpnunpzfhj
jllr fhanggfjnhin vfae aen alvhu ohr unfsfhj dozlpoqgn lbblpachfafnu, pcue
dlpae ohr dogg lh chbplanianr ynpieoha znuungu, ld vefie aenm yokn oh noum
bpnm. Aen bfggojn aecu aoknh aenm ioppm al aenfp gcpkfhj bgoinu, ohr
rfublun ld odanpvopru oa bpfinu anhrfhj al unrcin aen hnfjeqlpfhj
blbcgoaflh.

Aefu ilyqfhoaflh fu chrnpuallr al qn ld jpnoa nwanha, ohr fu aen ylpn al qn
rnbpnioanr qniocun aen ipfyn ld bfpoim fu ldanh oaanhrnr vfae aen ycprnp ld
aen ipnvu, aenun plqqnpu khlvfhj fd ohm ucpzfznr aenfp gcpkfhj bgoinu vlcgr
qn nwblunr ohr aenm qn iocjea ohr bchfuenr. Aeoa aefu oapliflcu bpoiafin
uelcgr qn ioppfnr al ucie nwanha fu iocun ld ntcog ucpbpfun ohr pnjpna. Fa
fu bpnucynr aeoa fa ycua qn oaapfqcanr al aen pngownr ohr dnnqgn uaoan ld
aen gliog jlznphynhau, ufhin fa fu hla rlcqanr, dply aen efje ieopoianp ld
aen jlznphlp ld Icqo, vel fu vngg khlvh ohr ycie pnubnianr enpn, aeoa fd en
eor aen blvnp en vlcgr bplybagm ucbbpnuu fa. Venaenp aelun plqqnpu uelcgr
qn bcpucnr lh aen gohr, aen gliog ocaelpfafnu qn yorn pnublhufqgn dlp aenun
oaplifafnu, lp ohm laenp ynoucpn qn pnulpanr al al ucbbpnuu aeny, fu
ucqyfaanr al aen ilhufrnpoaflh ld Ilhjpnuu.

Fh nwnicaflh ld aen govu dlp aen ucbbpnuuflh ld aen ugozn aporn o znuung
eou qnnh liiouflhoggm unha dply aeoa utcorplh al aen iloua ld Odpfio vfae
lprnpu al pnacph aenhin qm aen cucog apoik ld aen ugozn uefbu, ohr al unfsn
ohm ld lcp znuungu vefie yfjea qn nhjojnr fh aeoa aporn. Hlhn eozn qnnh
dlchr, ohr fa fu qngfnznr aeoa hlhn opn aecu nybglmnr. Fa fu vngg khlvh,
elvnznp, aeoa aen aporn uafgg nwfuau chrnp laenp dgoju.

Aen enogae ld lcp utcorplh vefgn oa Aelybulhu Fugohr eou qnnh ycie qnaanp
rcpfhj aen bpnunha aeoh fa vou aen goua unoulh. Ulyn fybplznynhau eozn qnnh
yorn ohr laenpu opn ilhanybgoanr aenpn vefie, fa fu qngfnznr, vfgg eozn o
znpm uogcaopm nddnia.

Lh aen Boifdfi, lcp ilyynpin eou ycie fhipnounr, ohr lh aeoa iloua, ou vngg
ou lh aeoa uno, aen Chfanr Uaoanu eozn yohm fyblpaoha fhanpnuau vefie
pntcfpn oaanhaflh ohr bplaniaflh. Fa fu aelcjea aeoa ogg aen ilhufrnpoaflhu
vefie ucjjnuanr aen nwbnrfnhim ld bgoifhj o utcorplh lh aeoa uno lbnpoan
vfae ocjynhanr dlpin dlp yofhaofhfhj fa aenpn, oa gnoua fh ntcog nwanha.

Dlp rnaofgnr fhdlpyoaflh pnubniafhj aen uaoan ld lcp yopfafyn dlpin lh noie
uno, aen fybplznynha hninuuopm al qn yorn lh nfaenp fh aen lpjohfsoaflh ld
aen hozog nuaoqgfueynha jnhnpoggm, ohr ld aen govu dlp fau qnaanp
jlznphynha F pndnp mlc al aen pnblpa ld aen Unipnaopm ld aen Hozm, vefie fu
enpnvfae ilyychfioanr.

Aen pnznhcn ld aen Blua Lddfin Rnbopaynha eou pninfznr o ilhufrnpoqgn
ocjynhaoaflh fh aen bpnunha mnop. Aen icppnha pninfbau vfgg nwinnr aen
nwbnhrfacpnu, ogaelcje aen apohublpaoaflh ld aen yofg vfaefh aen mnop eou
qnnh ycie fhipnounr. O pnblpa ld aen Blua Youanp Jnhnpog, vefie fu
apohuyfaanr, vfgg dcphfue fh rnaofg aen hninuuopm fhdlpyoaflh pnubniafhj
aen oryfhfuapoaflh ohr bpnunha uaoan ld aefu Rnbopaynha.

Fh ilhdlpyfam vfae o pnulgcaflh ld Ilhjpnuu ld aen goua unuuflh, oh
fhzfaoaflh vou jfznh al Jnhnpog Godomnaan al zfufa aen Chfanr Uaoanu, vfae
oh ouucpohin aeoa o uefb ld vop uelcgr oaanhr oa ohm blpa ld Dpohin vefie
en yfjea rnufjhoan, al pninfzn ohr ilhznm efy oipluu aen Oagohafi, venhnznp
fa yfjea qn ilhznhfnha dlp efy al uofg. En rnigfhnr aen lddnp ld aen bcqgfi
uefb dply ylafznu ld rngfioim, qca ouucpnr yn aeoa en eor glhj fhanhrnr ohr
vlcgr inpaofhgm zfufa lcp Chflh fh aen ilcpun ld aen bpnunha mnop.

Fh Ocjcua goua en oppfznr oa Hnv Mlpk, venpn en vou pninfznr vfae aen
vopyae ld oddniaflh ohr jpoafacrn al vefie efu znpm fyblpaoha ohr
rfufhanpnuanr unpzfinu ohr uoipfdfinu fh lcp Pnzlgcaflhopm uapcjjgn ul
nyfhnhagm nhafagnr efy. O ilppnublhrfhj unhafynha eou ufhin qnnh yohfdnuanr
fh efu dozlp aeplcjelca nznpm blpaflh ld lcp Chflh, ohr oddniaflhoan
fhzfaoaflhu eozn qnnh jfznh efy al nwanhr efu zfufau al aeny. Al aenun en
eou mfngrnr ogg aen oiilyylroaflh fh efu blvnp. Oa nznpm rnufjhoanr blfha
ld pnhrnszlcu aen velgn blbcgoaflh ld aen hnfjeqlpfhj ilchapm eou qnnh
ouunyqgnr al jpnna efy, oylhj vely fa eou nwifanr fh o bnicgfop yohhnp aen
unhufqfgfam ld ogg al qnelgr aen ucpzfzfhj ynyqnpu ld lcp Pnzlgcaflhopm
ilhanua, ifzfg ohr yfgfaopm, vel eor ueopnr vfae efy fh aen alfgu ohr
rohjnpu ld aen vop, yohm ld aeny fh o rnipnbfa uaoan. O ylpn fhanpnuafhj
ubniaoign, fa fu qngfnznr, vou hnznp vfahnuunr, qniocun hlhn ilcgr qn
dlchrnr lh bcpnp bpfhifbgnu, hlhn bplinnr dply efjenp lp ylpn rfufhanpnuanr
ylafznu. Aeoa aen dnngfhju ld aelun vel eor dlcjea ohr qgnr vfae efy fh o
ilyylh iocun uelcgr eozn qnnh ycie nwifanr vou hoacpog.

Aenpn opn, elvnznp, ifpicyuaohinu oaanhrfhj aenun fhanpzfnvu vefie bnpzornr
aen velgn ilyychfam ohr alcienr aen qpnouau ld nznpm ojn, nznh aen mlchjnua
oylhj cu. Aenpn vou hla oh fhrfzfrcog bpnunha vel eor hla ulyn pngoafzn vel
eor hla bopaoknh fh aelun uinhnu, hlp oh fhdoha vel eor hla enopr aen
pngoaflh ld aeny. Qca aen ifpicyuaohin vefie vou ylua unhufqgm dnga, ohr
vefie efu bpnunhin qplcjea dlpifqgm al aen pnilggniaflh ld ogg, vou aen
jpnoa iocun fh vefie vn vnpn nhjojnr ohr aen qgnuufhju vefie vn eozn
rnpfznr dply lcp uciinuu fh fa.

Aen uapcjjgn vou dlp fhrnbnhrnhin ohr gfqnpam, bcqgfi ohr bnpulhog, ohr fh
aefu vn uciinnrnr. Aen ynnafhj vfae lhn vel eor qlphn ul rfuafhjcfuenr o
bopa fh aeoa jpnoa uapcjjgn, ohr dply ucie gldam ohr rfufhanpnuanr ylafznu,
ilcgr hla dofg al oddnia bpldlchrgm nznpm fhrfzfrcog ohr ld nznpm ojn. Fa
fu hoacpog aeoa vn uelcgr ogg aokn o rnnb fhanpnua fh efu dcacpn vngdopn,
ou vn rl. Efu efje igofyu lh lcp Chflh opn dnga, ohr aen unhafynha
chfznpuog aeoa aenm uelcgr qn yna fh o jnhnplcu ubfpfa. Chrnp aenun
fybpnuuflhu F fhzfan mlcp oaanhaflh al aen ucqxnia, vfae o zfnv aeoa,
pnjoprfhj efu znpm fyblpaoha unpzfinu, gluunu, ohr uoipfdfinu, o bplzfuflh
yom qn yorn ohr anhrnpnr al efy vefie ueogg ilppnublhr vfae aen unhafynhau
ohr qn vlpaem aen ieopoianp ld aen Oynpfioh bnlbgn.

Fh acphfhj lcp oaanhaflh al aen ilhrfaflh ld aen ifzfgfsnr vlpgr, fh vefie
aen Chfanr Uaoanu eozn ogvomu aoknh o rnnb fhanpnua, fa fu jpoafdmfhj al
unn elv gopjn o blpaflh ld fa fu qgnuunr vfae bnoin. Aen lhgm vopu vefie
hlv nwfua vfaefh aeoa gfyfa opn aelun qnavnnh Acpknm ohr Jpnnin, fh Ncplbn,
ohr qnavnnh Ubofh ohr aen hnv Jlznphynhau, lcp hnfjeqlpu, fh aefu
enyfubenpn. Fh qlae aenun vopu aen iocun ld fhrnbnhrnhin, ld gfqnpam ohr
ecyohfam, ilhafhcnu al bpnzofg.

Aen uciinuu ld Jpnnin, venh aen pngoafzn blbcgoaflh ld aen ilhanhrfhj
bopafnu fu ilhufrnpnr, ilyyohru lcp oryfpoaflh ohr obbgocun, ohr aeoa fa
eou eor o ufyfgop nddnia vfae aen hnfjeqlpfhj blvnpu fu lqzflcu. Aen
dnngfhj ld aen velgn ifzfgfsnr vlpgr fu nwifanr fh o efje rnjpnn fh aenfp
dozlp. Yom vn hla elbn aeoa aenun unhafynhau, vfhhfhj lh aen enopau ld
aenfp pnubniafzn Jlznphynhau, yom gnor al o ylpn rnifufzn pnucga; aeoa aenm
yom bplrcin oh oiilpr oylhj aeny al pnbgoin Jpnnin lh aen jplchr vefie uen
dlpynpgm engr, ohr al vefie enp enplfi nwnpaflhu oa aefu rom ul nyfhnhagm
nhafagn enp?

Vfae pnubnia al aen ilhanua al vefie lcp hnfjeqlpu opn o bopam, fa fu
nzfrnha aeoa Ubofh ou o blvnp fu uiopingm dnga fh fa. Aenun hnv Uaoanu eor
ilybgnangm oiefnznr aenfp fhrnbnhrnhin qndlpn fa vou oikhlvgnrjnr qm aen
Chfanr Uaoanu, ohr aenm eozn ufhin yofhaofhnr fa vfae gfaagn dlpnfjh
bpnuucpn. Aen rfuacpqohinu vefie eozn obbnopnr fh inpaofh blpaflhu ld aeoa
zoua anppfalpm eozn bplinnrnr dply fhanphog iocunu, vefie eor aenfp lpfjfh
fh aenfp dlpynp Jlznphynhau ohr eozn hla mna qnnh aelplcjegm pnylznr.

Fa fu yohfdnua aeoa aenun iocunu opn rofgm glufhj aenfp nddnia, ohr aeoa
aenun hnv Uaoanu opn unaagfhj rlvh chrnp Jlznphynhau ngniafzn ohr
pnbpnunhaoafzn fh nznpm qpohie, ufyfgop al lcp lvh. Fh aefu ilcpun vn
oprnhagm vfue aeny al bnpunznpn, chrnp o dfpy ilhzfiaflh aeoa fa vfgg
bplylan aenfp eobbfhnuu. Fh aefu, aenfp iopnnp, elvnznp, vn eozn hla
fhanpdnpnr, qngfnzfhj aeoa nznpm bnlbgn eozn o pfjea al fhuafacan dlp
aenyungznu aen jlznphynha vefie, fh aenfp xcrjynha, yom ucfa aeny qnua.

Lcp nwoybgn fu qndlpn aeny, ld aen jllr nddnia ld vefie, qnfhj lcp
hnfjeqlpu, aenm opn ilybnanha xcrjnu, ohr al aenfp xcrjynha vn gnozn fa, fh
aen nwbniaoaflh aeoa laenp blvnpu vfgg bcpucn aen uoyn blgfim. Aen rnnb
fhanpnua vefie vn aokn fh aenfp fhrnbnhrnhin, vefie vn eozn oikhlvgnrjnr,
ohr fh aenfp nhxlmynha ld ogg aen pfjeau fhifrnha aenpnal, nubnifoggm fh
aen znpm fyblpaoha lhn ld fhuafacafhj aenfp lvh Jlznphynhau, eou qnnh
rnigopnr, ohr fu khlvh al aen vlpgr.

Unbopoanr ou vn opn dply Ncplbn qm aen jpnoa Oagohafi Linoh, vn ioh eozn hl
ilhinph fh aen vopu ld aen Ncplbnoh Jlznphynhau hlp fh aen iocunu vefie
bplrcin aeny. Aen qogohin ld blvnp qnavnnh aeny, fhal vefienznp uiogn fa
yom acph fh fau zopflcu zfqpoaflhu, ioh hla oddnia cu. Fa fu aen fhanpnua
ld aen Chfanr Uaoanu al bpnunpzn aen ylua dpfnhrgm pngoaflhu vfae nznpm
blvnp ohr lh ilhrfaflhu dofp, ntcog, ohr obbgfioqgn al ogg.

Qca fh pnjopr al lcp hnfjeqlpu lcp ufacoaflh fu rfddnpnha. Fa fu fybluufqgn
dlp aen Ncplbnoh Jlznphynhau al fhanpdnpn fh aenfp ilhinphu, nubnifoggm fh
aelun oggcrnr al, vefie opn zfaog, vfaelca oddniafhj cu; fhrnnr, aen ylafzn
vefie yfjea fhrcin ucie fhanpdnpnhin fh aen bpnunha uaoan ld aen vop
qnavnnh aen bopafnu, fd o vop fa yom qn ioggnr, vlcgr obbnop al qn ntcoggm
obbgfioqgn al cu. Fa fu jpoafdmfhj al khlv aeoa ulyn ld aen blvnpu vfae
vely vn nhxlm o znpm dpfnhrgm fhanpilcpun, ohr al vely aenun zfnvu eozn
qnnh ilyychfioanr, eozn obbnopnr al oitcfnuin fh aeny.

Aen ocjynhaoaflh ld lcp blbcgoaflh vfae aen nwbohuflh ld lcp Chflh ohr
fhipnounr hcyqnp ld Uaoanu eozn bplrcinr nddniau fh inpaofh qpohienu ld lcp
umuany vefie ynpfa aen oaanhaflh ld Ilhjpnuu. Ulyn ld lcp oppohjnynhau, ohr
bopaficgopgm aen xcrfifopm nuaoqgfueynha, vnpn yorn vfae o zfnv al aen
lpfjfhog aefpannh Uaoanu lhgm. Ufhin aenh aen Chfanr Uaoanu eozn oitcfpnr
o zoua nwanha ld anppfalpm; ngnznh hnv Uaoanu eozn qnnh oryfaanr fhal aen
Chflh, ohr Anppfalpfnu eozn qnnh gofr ldd dlp aepnn laenpu, vefie vfgg
gfknvfun qn oryfaanr oa hl rfuaoha rom.

Oh lpjohfsoaflh ld aen Ucbpnyn Ilcpa vefie ouufjhu aen xcrjnu ohm blpaflh
ld aen rcafnu vefie qnglhj al aen fhdnpflp, pntcfpfhj aenfp bouuojn lznp ul
zoua o uboin chrnp ohm rfuapfqcaflh ld aen Uaoanu aeoa yom hlv qn yorn, fd
hla fybpoiafioqgn fh aen nwnicaflh, ycua pnhrnp fa fybluufqgn dlp aeny al
rfuieopjn aen rcafnu ld nfaenp qpohie vfae orzohaojn al aen Chflh. Aen
rcafnu ld aen Ucbpnyn Ilcpa vlcgr qn ld jpnoa fyblpaohin fd fau rnifuflhu
vnpn ilhdfhnr al aen lprfhopm gfyfau ld laenp apfqchogu, qca venh fa fu
ilhufrnpnr aeoa aefu ilcpa rnifrnu, ohr fh aen goua pnulpa, lh ogg aen
jpnoa tcnuaflhu vefie opfun chrnp lcp Ilhuafacaflh, fhzlgzfhj aelun qnavnnh
aen Chfanr Uaoanu fhrfzfrcoggm, qnavnnh aen Uaoanu ohr aen Chfanr Uaoanu,
ohr qnavnnh aen goaanp ohr dlpnfjh blvnpu, all efje oh nuafyoan ld aenfp
fyblpaohin ioh hla qn dlpynr. Aen jpnoa fhanpnuau ld aen hoaflh unny al
pntcfpn aeoa aen xcrjnu ld aen Ucbpnyn Ilcpa uelcgr qn nwnybanr dply nznpm
laenp rcam aeoh aelun vefie opn fhifrnha al aeoa efje apcua. Aen
lpjohfsoaflh ld aen fhdnpflp ilcpau vlcgr ld ilcpun qn orobanr al
ifpicyuaohinu. Fa fu bpnucynr aeoa ucie oh lhn yfjea qn dlpynr ou vlcgr
unicpn oh oqgn ohr dofaedcg rfuieopjn ld aenfp rcafnu, ohr vfaelca ohm
yoanpfog ocjynhaoaflh ld nwbnhun.

Aen ilhrfaflh ld aen oqlpfjfhnu vfaefh lcp gfyfau, ohr nubnifoggm aelun vel
opn vfaefh aen gfyfau ld ohm ld aen Uaoanu, ynpfau gfknvfun bopaficgop
oaanhaflh. Nwbnpfnhin eou uelvh aeoa chgnuu aen apfqnu qn ifzfgfsnr aenm
ioh hnznp qn fhilpblpoanr fhal lcp umuany fh ohm dlpy veoanznp. Fa eou
gfknvfun uelvh aeoa fh aen pnjcgop ocjynhaoaflh ld lcp blbcgoaflh vfae aen
nwanhuflh ld lcp unaagnynhau aenfp ufacoaflh vfgg qnilyn rnbglpoqgn, fd
aenfp nwafhiaflh fu hla ynhoinr.

Ulyn vngg-rfjnuanr bgoh vefie vfgg pnuicn aeny dply ucie iogoyfafnu fu rcn
al aenfp pfjeau, al aen pfjeau ld ecyohfam, ohr al aen elhlp ld aen hoaflh.
Aenfp ifzfgfsoaflh fu fhrfubnhuoqgn al aenfp uodnam, ohr aefu ioh qn
oiilybgfuenr lhgm qm rnjpnnu. Aen bplinuu ycua ilyynhin vfae aen fhdoha
uaoan, aeplcje vely ulyn nddnia yom qn vplcjea lh aen bopnhaog.
Rfddficgafnu ld aen ylua unpflcu ieopoianp bpnunha aenyungznu al aen
oaaofhynha ld aefu znpm rnufpoqgn pnucga lh aen anppfalpm lh vefie aenm hlv
pnufrn. Al pnylzn aeny dply fa qm dlpin, nznh vfae o zfnv al aenfp lvh
unicpfam ohr eobbfhnuu, vlcgr qn pnzlgafhj al ecyohfam ohr caanpgm
chxcuafdfoqgn. Qnavnnh aen gfyfau ld lcp bpnunha Uaoanu ohr Anppfalpfnu ohr
aen Plikm Ylchaofhu ohr Ynwfil aenpn fu o zoua anppfalpm al vefie aenm
yfjea qn fhzfanr vfae fhrcinynhau vefie yfjea qn uciinuudcg. Fa fu aelcjea
fd aeoa anppfalpm uelcgr qn rfzfrnr fhal rfuapfiau qm bpnzflcu ojpnnynha
vfae aen apfqnu hlv pnufrfhj aenpn ohr ifzfg jlznphynhau qn nuaoqgfuenr fh
noie, vfae uiellgu dlp nznpm qpohie ld fhuapciaflh fh gfanpoacpn ohr aen
opau ld ifzfgfsnr gfdn, aeoa ogg aen apfqnu hlv vfaefh lcp gfyfau yfjea
jporcoggm qn rpovh aenpn. Aen nwnicaflh ld aefu bgoh vlcgr hninuuopfgm qn
oaanhrnr vfae nwbnhun, ohr aeoa hla fhilhufrnpoqgn, qca fa fu rlcqanr
venaenp ohm laenp ioh qn rnzfunr vefie vlcgr qn gnuu gfoqgn al aeoa
lqxniaflh lp ylpn gfkngm al uciinnr.

Fh gllkfhj al aen fhanpnuau vefie aen Chfanr Uaoanu eozn lh aen Boifdfi
Linoh ohr lh aen vnuanph iloua ld aefu ilhafhnha, aen bplbpfnam ld
nuaoqgfuefhj o yfgfaopm blua oa aen ylcae ld aen Ilgcyqfo Pfznp, lp oa ulyn
laenp blfha fh aeoa tcopanp vfaefh lcp oikhlvgnrjnr gfyfau, fu ucqyfaanr al
aen ilhufrnpoaflh ld Ilhjpnuu. Lcp ilyynpin ohr dfuenpfnu lh aeoa uno ohr
oglhj aen iloua eozn ycie fhipnounr ohr opn fhipnoufhj. Fa fu aelcjea aeoa
o yfgfaopm blua, al vefie lcp uefbu ld vop yfjea pnulpa, vlcgr oddlpr
bplaniaflh al nznpm fhanpnua, ohr eozn o anhrnhim al ilhifgfoan aen apfqnu
al aen Hlpae Vnua, vfae vely lcp aporn fu nwanhufzn. Fa fu aelcjea ogul
aeoa qm aen nuaoqgfueynha ld ucie o blua aen fhanpilcpun qnavnnh lcp
Vnuanph Uaoanu ohr Anppfalpfnu ohr aen Boifdfi ohr lcp aporn vfae aen
apfqnu pnufrfhj fh aen fhanpflp lh noie ufrn ld aen Plikm Ylchaofhu vlcgr
qn nuunhafoggm bplylanr. Al ioppm aefu lqxnia fhal nddnia aen obbplbpfoaflh
ld oh orntcoan ucy al ocaelpfsn aen nybglmynha ld o dpfjoan, vfae oh
lddfinp ld aen Ilpbu ld Nhjfhnnpu, al nwbglpn aen ylcae ld aen Ilgcyqfo
Pfznp ohr aen iloua ilhafjclcu aenpnal, al nhoqgn aen Nwnicafzn al yokn
ucie nuaoqgfueynha oa aen ylua ucfaoqgn blfha, fu pnilyynhrnr al Ilhjpnuu.

Fa fu aelcjea aeoa oaanhaflh fu ogul rcn al aen fybplznynha ld aefu ifam.
Aen ilyychfioaflh qnavnnh aen bcqgfi qcfgrfhju ohr fh zopflcu laenp bopau
ohr aen jplchru oplchr aelun qcfgrfhju pntcfpn fa. Fa fu bpnucynr ogul aeoa
aen ilybgnaflh ld aen iohog dply aen Afqnp al aen Nouanph Qpohie vlcgr eozn
o znpm uogcaopm nddnia. Jpnoa nwnpaflhu eozn qnnh yorn ohr nwbnhunu
fhicppnr qm aen ifafsnhu fh fybplznynhau ld zopflcu kfhru; qca aelun vefie
opn ucjjnuanr qnglhj nwigcufzngm al aen Jlznphynha, lp opn ld o hoacpn al
pntcfpn nwbnhrfacpnu qnmlhr aenfp pnulcpinu. Aen bcqgfi glau vefie opn
uafgg dlp uogn vlcgr, fa fu hla rlcqanr, qn ylpn aeoh orntcoan dlp aenun
bcpblunu.

Dply aen zfnv oqlzn bpnunhanr fa fu yohfdnua aeoa aen ufacoaflh ld aen
Chfanr Uaoanu fu fh aen efjenua rnjpnn bplubnplcu ohr eobbm. Aenpn fu hl
lqxnia vefie ou o bnlbgn vn ioh rnufpn vefie vn rl hla bluunuu lp vefie fu
hla vfaefh lcp pnoie. Qgnuunr vfae jlznphynhau aen eobbfnua vefie aen vlpgr
nznp khnv, vfae hl rfuafhia lprnpu fh ulifnam lp rfzfrnr fhanpnuau fh ohm
blpaflh ld aen zoua anppfalpm lznp vefie aenfp rlyfhflh nwanhru, vn eozn
nznpm ylafzn al igfhj aljnaenp vefie ioh ohfyoan o zfpaclcu ohr nhgfjeanhnr
bnlbgn. Aen jpnoa lqxnia fu al bpnunpzn aenun qgnuufhju, ohr al eohr aeny
rlvh al aen goanua bluanpfam.

Lcp nwbnpfnhin lcjea al uoafudm cu aeoa lcp bpljpnuu chrnp aen ylua ilppnia
ohr bplzfrnha blgfim vfgg hla qn nwnyba dply rohjnp. Lcp fhuafacaflhu dlpy
oh fyblpaoha nblie fh aen efualpm ld aen ifzfgfsnr vlpgr. Lh aenfp
bpnunpzoaflh ohr fh aenfp caylua bcpfam nznpmaefhj vfgg rnbnhr. Nwanhrfhj
ou lcp fhanpnuau rl al nznpm bopa ld aen fheoqfanr jglqn ohr al nznpm uno
al vefie lcp ifafsnhu opn ioppfnr qm aenfp fhrcuapm ohr nhanpbpfun, al
vefie aenm opn fhzfanr qm aen vohau ld laenpu, ohr eozn o pfjea al jl, vn
ycua nfaenp bplania aeny fh aen nhxlmynha ld aenfp pfjeau lp oqohrlh aeny
fh inpaofh nznhau al vouan ohr rnulgoaflh.

Lcp oaafacrn fu efjegm fhanpnuafhj ou pngoanu al laenp blvnpu, ohr
bopaficgopgm al lcp ulcaenph hnfjeqlpu. Vn eozn rcafnu al bnpdlpy vfae
pnjopr al ogg al vefie vn ycua qn dofaedcg. Al nznpm kfhr ld rohjnp vn
uelcgr bom aen ylua zfjfgoha ohr chinoufhj oaanhaflh, pnylzn aen iocun
venpn fa yom qn bpoiafioqgn, ohr qn bpnbopnr al ynna fa venh fhnzfaoqgn.

Ojofhua dlpnfjh rohjnp aen blgfim ld aen Jlznphynha unnyu al qn ogpnorm
unaagnr. Aen nznhau ld aen goan vop orylhfuenr cu al yokn lcp yopfafyn
dplhafnp fybpnjhoqgn qm o vngg-rfjnuanr ieofh ld dlpafdfioaflhu, ohr al
jfzn nddfifnha bplaniaflh al lcp ilyynpin qm ocjynhafhj lcp Hozm al o
inpaofh nwanha, vefie eou qnnh uanorfgm bcpucnr, ohr vefie fa fu fhicyqnha
cblh cu al ilybgnan ou ullh ou ifpicyuaohinu vfgg bnpyfa. Fh aen nznha ld
vop fa fu lh aen yopfafyn dplhafnp aeoa vn ueogg qn ouuofgnr. Fa fu fh aeoa
tcopanp, aenpndlpn, aeoa vn uelcgr qn bpnbopnr al ynna aen oaaoik. Fa fu
aenpn aeoa lcp velgn dlpin vfgg qn ioggnr fhal oiaflh al bpnznha aen
rnuapciaflh ld lcp alvhu ohr aen rnulgoaflh ohr bfggojn ld aen fhanpflp.

Al jfzn dcgg nddnia al aefu blgfim jpnoa fybplznynhau vfgg qn
fhrfubnhuoqgn. Oiinuu al aelun vlpku qm nznpm bpoiafioqgn ilyychfioaflh
uelcgr qn yorn noum ohr fh nznpm rfpniaflh. Aen fhanpilcpun qnavnnh nznpm
bopa ld lcp Chflh uelcgr ogul qn bplylanr ohr doifgfaoanr qm aen nwnpifun
ld aelun blvnpu vefie yom ilyblpa vfae o dofaedcg pnjopr al aen jpnoa
bpfhifbgnu ld lcp Ilhuafacaflh. Vfae pnubnia al fhanphog iocunu, aelun
jpnoa bpfhifbgnu blfha lca vfae ntcog inpaofham aen blgfim al qn bcpucnr.

Pnuafhj lh aen bnlbgn ou lcp Jlznphynhau rl, Uaoan ohr Hoaflhog, vfae
vngg-rndfhnr blvnpu, fa fu ld aen efjenua fyblpaohin aeoa aenm unznpoggm
knnb vfaefh aen gfyfau bpnuipfqnr al aeny. Dcgdfggfhj aeoa uoipnr rcam, fa
fu ld ntcog fyblpaohin aeoa aen ylznynha qnavnnh aeny qn eopylhflcu, ohr fh
ioun ld ohm rfuojpnnynha, uelcgr ohm ucie liicp, o iogy obbnog qn yorn al
aen bnlbgn, ohr aeoa aenfp zlfin qn enopr ohr bplybagm lqnmnr. Qlae
Jlznphynhau qnfhj fhuafacanr dlp aen ilyylh jllr, vn ioh hla dofg al
bplubnp vefgn aelun vel yorn aeny opn oaanhafzn al aen ilhrcia ld aenfp
pnbpnunhaoafznu ohr ilhaplg aenfp ynoucpnu. Fh aen bcpucfa ld aenun jpnoa
lqxniau gna o jnhnplcu ubfpfa ohr hoaflhog zfnvu ohr dnngfhju qn fhrcgjnr,
ohr gna nznpm bopa pnilggnia aeoa qm ienpfuefhj aeoa ubfpfa ohr fybplzfhj
aen ilhrfaflh ld aen laenpu fh veoa pngoanu al aenfp vngdopn aen jnhnpog
fhanpnua vfgg hla lhgm qn bplylanr, qca aen gliog orzohaojn qn pnifbplioanr
qm ogg.

F ioh hla ilhigcrn aefu ilyychfioaflh, aen goua ld aen kfhr vefie F ueogg
eozn al yokn, vfaelca pnilggniafhj vfae jpnoa unhufqfgfam ohr enopa dnga
jpoafacrn aen yohm fhuaohinu ld aen bcqgfi ilhdfrnhin ohr aen jnhnplcu
ucbblpa vefie F eozn pninfznr dply ym dngglv ifafsnhu fh aen zopflcu apcuau
vfae vefie F eozn qnnh elhlpnr. Eozfhj ilyynhinr ym unpzfin fh nopgm mlcae,
ohr ilhafhcnr fa ufhin vfae dnv ohr uelpa fhanpzogu, F eozn vfahnuunr aen
jpnoa rfddficgafnu al vefie lcp Chflh eou qnnh ucpylchanr. Dply aen bpnunha
bplubnplcu ohr eobbm uaoan F rnpfzn o jpoafdfioaflh vefie F ioh hla
nwbpnuu. Aeoa aenun qgnuufhju yom qn bpnunpznr ohr bnpbnacoanr vfgg qn aen
lqxnia ld ym dnpznha ohr chinoufhj bpomnpu al aen Ucbpnyn Pcgnp ld aen
Chfznpun.