Lyeefr-Sqdqayit fl dby Tyijdy jik Bfnty fl Myomytyidjdqwyt:

Dby onzeqs znqekqivt zyqiv jkwjisyk df j tdjvy df jllfmk jssfggfkjdqfi lfm
Sfivmytt, Q fllym xfn gx tqisymy sfivmjdnejdqfit fi dby mysfggyisygyid fl
xfnm kndqyt qi dby Sjoqdfe.

Qi zmqivqiv xfn df wqyr dby qisqkyidt gftd kytymwqiv jddyidqfi rbqsb bjwy
fssnmmyk tqisy xfnm ejtd tyttqfi, Q myvmyd df bjwy df tdjdy dbjd tywymje fl
fnm omqisqoje sqdqyt bjwy tnllymyk zx tqspiytt, dbjd ji nintnje kmfnvbd bjt
omywjqeyk qi dby Gqkkey jik Rytdymi Tdjdyt, jik dbjd j kymjivygyid bjt zyyi
lyed qi tfgy fl fnm gfiyxyk qitdqdndqfit rbqsb bjt omfofmdqfijzex jllysdyk
dbyqm smykqd. Q jg bjoox, bfrywym, df bjwy qd qi gx ofrym df jttnmy xfn
dbjd dby byjedb fl fnm sqdqyt qt ifr sfgoeydyex mytdfmyk; dbjd dby omfknsy
fl dby xyjm, dbfnvb eytt jznikjid dbji ntnje, rqee ifd fiex zy jgoex
tnllqsqyid lfm bfgy sfitngodqfi, znd jllfmk j ejmvy tnmoent lfm dby tnooex
fl dby rjidt fl fdbym ijdqfit, jik dbjd dby kymjivygyid qi dby sqmsnejdqiv
ojoym gykqng, zx zyqiv eyld df dbfty mygykqyt rbqsb qdt fzwqfnt sjntyt
tnvvytdyk jik dby vffk tyity jik wqmdny fl fnm lyeefr sqdqayit tnooeqyk,
bjt kqgqiqtbyk.

Bjwqiv qilfmgyk Sfivmytt, fi dby 27db fl Lyzmnjmx ejtd, dbjd j dmyjdx fl
jgqdx, tyddeygyid, jik eqgqdt bjk zyyi sfisenkyk qi dbqt sqdx zydryyi dby
Niqdyk Tdjdyt jik Tojqi, jik mjdqlqyk zx dby sfgoydyid jndbfmqdqyt fl dby
lfmgym, lnee sfilqkyisy rjt yidymdjqiyk dbjd qd rfnek bjwy zyyi mjdqlqyk zx
Bqt Sjdbfeqs Gjcytdx rqdb yunje omfgodqdnky jik j eqpy yjmiytd kytqmy df
dymgqijdy fi dby sfikqdqfit fl dbjd dmyjdx dby kqllymyisyt rbqsb bjk tf
efiv yhqtdyk zydryyi dby drf sfnidmqyt. Ywymx wqyr rbqsb dby tnzcysd
jkgqddyk fl rjt dbfnvbd df bjwy cntdqlqyk dbqt sfisentqfi.

Vmyjd efttyt bjk zyyi tntdjqiyk zx sqdqayit fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt lmfg
Tojiqtb smnqtymt gfmy dbji 20 xyjmt zylfmy, rbqsb bjk ifd zyyi mykmyttyk.
Dbyty efttyt bjk zyyi jspifreykvyk jik omfwqkyk lfm zx j dmyjdx jt ljm zjsp
jt dby xyjm 1802, rbqsb, jedbfnvb sfisenkyk jd Gjkmqk, rjt ifd dbyi
mjdqlqyk zx dby Vfwymigyid fl Tojqi, ifm tqisy, nidqe dby ejtd xyjm, rbyi
qd rjt tntoyikyk zx dby ejdy dmyjdx, j gfmy tjdqtljsdfmx omfwqtqfi df zfdb
ojmdqyt, jt rjt omytngyk, bjwqiv zyyi gjky lfm dbyg. Fdbym kqllymyisyt bjk
jmqtyi qi dbqt efiv qidymwje, jllysdqiv dbyqm bqvbytd qidymytdt, rbqsb rymy
eqpyrqty omfwqkyk lfm zx dbqt ejtd dmyjdx.

Dby dmyjdx qdtyel rjt lfmgyk fi vmyjd sfitqkymjdqfi jik j dbfmfnvb
pifreykvy fl jee sqmsngtdjisyt, dby tnzcysd gjddym fl ywymx jmdqsey bjwqiv
zyyi lfm xyjmt nikym kqtsnttqfi jik myoyjdyk mylymyisyt bjwqiv zyyi gjky zx
dby gqiqtdym fl Tojqi df bqt Vfwymigyid fi dby ofqidt mytoysdqiv rbqsb dby
vmyjdytd kqllymyisy fl foqiqfi omywjqeyk. Qd rjt lfmgyk zx j gqiqtdym knex
jndbfmqayk lfm dby onmofty, rbf bjk myomytyidyk bqt Vfwymigyid qi dby
Niqdyk Tdjdyt jik zyyi ygoefxyk qi dbqt efiv-omfdmjsdyk iyvfdqjdqfi
tywymje xyjmt, jik rbf, qd qt ifd kyiqyk, pyod tdmqsdex rqdbqi dby eyddym
fl bqt qitdmnsdqfit. Dby ljqdb fl Tojqi rjt dbymylfmy oeykvyk, nikym
sqmsngtdjisyt fl oysneqjm lfmsy jik tfeygiqdx, lfm qdt mjdqlqsjdqfi.

Fi dby ojmd fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt dbqt dmyjdx rjt ywqkyidex jssykyk df qi j
toqmqd fl sfisqeqjdqfi jik sfisyttqfi. Dby qikygiqdx lfm qicnmqyt jik
efttyt tf efiv zylfmy tntdjqiyk, jik ifr jvjqi jspifreykvyk jik omfwqkyk
lfm, rjt df zy ojqk zx dbyg rqdbfnd zysfgqiv j sbjmvy fi dby dmyjtnmx fl
Tojqi. Lfm dymmqdfmx sykyk zx Tojqi fdbym dymmqdfmx fl vmyjd wjeny, df
rbqsb fnm sejqg rjt zyeqywyk df zy ryee lfnikyk, rjt sykyk zx dby Niqdyk
Tdjdyt, jik qi j unjmdym gfmy qidymytdqiv df bym. Dbqt syttqfi rjt
iywymdbyeytt mysyqwyk jt dby gyjit fl qikygiqlxqiv fnm sqdqayit qi j
sfitqkymjzey tng, dby omytngyk jgfnid fl dbyqm efttyt.

Fdbym sfitqkymjdqfit fl vmyjd ryqvbd nmvyk dby syttqfi fl dbqt dymmqdfmx zx
Tojqi. Qd rjt tnmmfnikyk zx dby Dymmqdfmqyt fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt fi ywymx
tqky yhsyod fi dbjd fl dby fsyji. Tojqi bjk eftd bym jndbfmqdx fwym qd,
jik, ljeeqiv qidf dby bjikt fl jkwyidnmymt sfiiysdyk rqdb dby tjwjvyt, qd
rjt gjky dby gyjit fl nisyjtqiv jiifxjisy jik qicnmx df fnm Niqfi qi gjix
fl qdt gftd yttyidqje qidymytdt. Zx dbqt syttqfi, dbyi, Tojqi sykyk j
dymmqdfmx qi myjeqdx fl if wjeny df bym jik fzdjqiyk sfisyttqfit fl dby
bqvbytd qgofmdjisy zx dby tyddeygyid fl efiv-tdjikqiv kqllymyisyt rqdb dby
Niqdyk Tdjdyt jllysdqiv dbyqm mytoysdqwy sejqgt jik eqgqdt, jik eqpyrqty
myeqywyk bymtyel lmfg dby fzeqvjdqfi fl j dmyjdx myejdqiv df qd rbqsb tby
bjk ljqeyk df lnelqee, jik jetf lmfg dby mytofitqzqeqdx qisqkyid df dby
gftd lejvmjid jik oymiqsqfnt jzntyt fl bym mqvbdt rbymy tby sfnek ifd
tnoofmd bym jndbfmqdx.

Qd zyqiv pifri dbjd dby dmyjdx rjt lfmgyk nikym dbyty sqmsngtdjisyt, ifd j
kfnzd rjt yidymdjqiyk dbjd Bqt Sjdbfeqs Gjcytdx rfnek bjwy mjdqlqyk qd
rqdbfnd kyejx. Q myvmyd df bjwy df tdjdy dbjd dbqt myjtfijzey yhoysdjdqfi
bjt zyyi kqtjoofqidyk; dbjd dby dmyjdx rjt ifd mjdqlqyk rqdbqi dby dqgy
tdqonejdyk jik bjt ifd tqisy zyyi mjdqlqyk. Jt qd qt qgofmdjid dbjd dby
ijdnmy jik sbjmjsdym fl dbqt niyhoysdyk fssnmmyisy tbfnek zy kqtdqisdex
nikymtdffk, Q dbqip qd gx kndx df sfggniqsjdy df xfn jee dby ljsdt jik
sqmsngtdjisyt qi gx ofttyttqfi myejdqiv df qd.

Jihqfnt df omywyid jee lndnmy kqtjvmyygyid rqdb Tojqi zx vqwqiv dby gftd
omfgod yllysd df dby dmyjdx rbqsb bjk zyyi dbnt sfisenkyk, jik ojmdqsnejmex
zx dby ytdjzeqtbgyid fl j Vfwymigyid qi Lefmqkj rbqsb tbfnek omytymwy fmkym
dbymy, dby gqiqtdym fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt rbf bjk zyyi mysyidex joofqidyk df
Bqt Sjdbfeqs Gjcytdx, jik df rbfg dby mjdqlqsjdqfi zx bqt Vfwymigyid bjk
zyyi sfggqddyk df zy yhsbjivyk lfm dbjd fl Tojqi, rjt qitdmnsdyk df
dmjitgqd dby ejddym df dby Kyojmdgyid fl Tdjdy jt tffi jt fzdjqiyk, zx j
onzeqs tbqo tnzcysdyk df bqt fmkym lfm dby onmofty.

Niyhoysdyk kyejx fssnmmqiv qi dby mjdqlqsjdqfi zx Tojqi, by myunytdyk df zy
qilfmgyk fl dby sjnty. Qd rjt tdjdyk qi myoex dbjd dby vmyjd qgofmdjisy fl
dby tnzcysd, jik j kytqmy df fzdjqi yhoejijdqfit fi symdjqi ofqidt rbqsb
rymy ifd toysqlqyk, bjk omfknsyk dby kyejx, jik dbjd ji yiwfx rfnek zy
kqtojdsbyk df dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt df fzdjqi tnsb yhoejijdqfit fl dbqt
Vfwymigyid. Dby gqiqtdym fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt fllymyk df vqwy lnee
yhoejijdqfi fi jix ofqid fi rbqsb qd gqvbd zy kytqmyk, rbqsb omfoftje rjt
kyseqiyk. Bjwqiv sfggniqsjdyk dbqt mytned df dby Kyojmdgyid fl Tdjdy qi
Jnvntd ejtd, by rjt qitdmnsdyk, ifdrqdbtdjikqiv dby kqtjoofqidgyid jik
tnmomqty rbqsb qd omfknsyk, df qilfmg dby Vfwymigyid fl Tojqi dbjd ql dby
dmyjdx tbfnek zy mjdqlqyk jik dmjitgqddyk bymy jd jix dqgy zylfmy dby
gyydqiv fl Sfivmytt qd rfnek zy mysyqwyk jik bjwy dby tjgy yllysd jt ql qd
bjk zyyi mjdqlqyk qi kny dqgy.

Dbqt fmkym rjt yhysndyk, dby jndbfmqayk sfggniqsjdqfi rjt gjky df dby
Vfwymigyid fl Tojqi, jik zx qdt jitrym, rbqsb bjt cntd zyyi mysyqwyk, ry
jmy fllqsqjeex gjky jsunjqidyk lfm dby lqmtd dqgy rqdb dby sjntyt rbqsb
bjwy omywyidyk dby mjdqlqsjdqfi fl dby dmyjdx zx Bqt Sjdbfeqs Gjcytdx. Qd
qt jeeyvyk zx dby gqiqtdym fl Tojqi dbjd bqt Vfwymigyid bjk jddygodyk df
jedym fiy fl dby omqisqoje jmdqseyt fl dby dmyjdx zx j kysejmjdqfi rbqsb
dby gqiqtdym fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt bjk zyyi fmkymyk df omytyid rbyi by
tbfnek kyeqwym dby mjdqlqsjdqfi zx bqt Vfwymigyid qi yhsbjivy lfm dbjd fl
Tojqi, jik fl rbqsb by vjwy ifdqsy, yhoejijdfmx fl dby tyity qi rbqsb dbjd
jmdqsey rjt nikymtdffk. Qd qt lnmdbym jeeyvyk dbjd dbqt Vfwymigyid bjk
mysyidex dfeymjdyk fm omfdysdyk ji yhoykqdqfi lmfg dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt
jvjqitd dby Omfwqisy fl Dyhjt. Dbyty drf qgondyk jsdt jmy tdjdyk jt dby
myjtfit rbqsb bjwy qiknsyk Bqt Sjdbfeqs Gjcytdx df rqdbbfek bqt
mjdqlqsjdqfi lmfg dby dmyjdx, df fzdjqi yhoejijdqfit mytoysdqiv rbqsb qd qt
myoyjdyk dbjd ji yiwfx rfnek zy lfmdbrqdb kqtojdsbyk df dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt.
Bfr ljm dbyty jeeyvjdqfit rqee cntdqlx dby sfiknsd fl dby Vfwymigyid fl
Tojqi rqee jooyjm fi j wqyr fl dby lfeefrqiv ljsdt jik dby ywqkyisy rbqsb
tnoofmdt dbyg:

Qd rqee zy tyyi zx dby kfsngyidt dmjitgqddyk bymyrqdb dbjd dby kysejmjdqfi
gyidqfiyk myejdyt df j sejnty qi dby 8db jmdqsey sfisymiqiv symdjqi vmjidt
fl ejik mysyidex gjky zx Bqt Sjdbfeqs Gjcytdx qi Lefmqkj, rbqsb qd rjt
nikymtdffk bjk sfiwyxyk jee dby ejikt rbqsb nidqe dbyi bjk zyyi nivmjidyk;
qd rjt dby qidyidqfi fl dby ojmdqyt df jiine dbyty ejddym vmjidt, jik dbjd
sejnty rjt kmjri lfm dbjd yhomytt onmofty jik lfm ifiy fdbym. Dby kjdy fl
dbyty vmjidt rjt nipifri, znd qd rjt nikymtdffk df zy oftdymqfm df dbjd
qitymdyk qi dby jmdqsey; qikyyk, qd gntd zy fzwqfnt df jee dbjd ql dbjd
omfwqtqfi qi dby dmyjdx bjk ifd dby yllysd fl jiineeqiv dbyty vmjidt, qd
rfnek zy jedfvydbym invjdfmx. Qggykqjdyex jldym dby dmyjdx rjt sfisenkyk
jik mjdqlqyk zx dbqt Vfwymigyid ji qidqgjdqfi rjt mysyqwyk dbjd dbyty
vmjidt rymy fl jidymqfm kjdy df dbjd lqhyk fi zx dby dmyjdx jik dbjd dbyx
rfnek ifd, fl sfnmty, zy jllysdyk zx qd. Dby gymy ofttqzqeqdx fl tnsb j
sjty, tf qisfitqtdyid rqdb dby qidyidqfi fl dby ojmdqyt jik dby gyjiqiv fl
dby jmdqsey, qiknsyk dbqt Vfwymigyid df kygjik ji yhoejijdqfi fi dby
tnzcysd, rbqsb rjt qggykqjdyex vmjidyk, jik rbqsb sfmmytofikt rqdb dbqt
tdjdygyid.

Rqdb myvjmk df dby fdbym jsd jeeyvyk, dbjd dbqt Vfwymigyid bjk dfeymjdyk
fm omfdysdyk ji yhoykqdqfi jvjqitd Dyhjt, qd qt nddymex rqdbfnd
lfnikjdqfi. Ywymx kqtsfnidyijisy bjt qiwjmqjzex zyyi vqwyi df jix tnsb
jddygod rqdbqi dby eqgqdt fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt, jt qt lneex ywqisyk zx dby
jsdt fl dby Vfwymigyid jik dby omfsyykqivt fl dby sfnmdt. Dbymy zyqiv
sjnty, bfrywym, df joomybyik, qi dby sfnmty fl dby ejtd tnggym, dbjd tfgy
jkwyidnmymt yidymdjqiyk wqyrt fl dby pqik tnvvytdyk, dby jddyidqfi fl dby
sfitdqdndyk jndbfmqdqyt qi dbjd unjmdym rjt qggykqjdyex kmjri df dbyg,
jik qd qt pifri dbjd dby omfcysd, rbjdywym qd gqvbd zy, bjt nddymex
ljqeyk.

Dbyty ljsdt rqee, qd qt omytngyk, tjdqtlx ywymx qgojmdqje gqik dbjd dby
Vfwymigyid fl Tojqi bjk if cntdqlqjzey sjnty lfm kyseqiqiv df mjdqlx dby
dmyjdx. J dmyjdx sfisenkyk qi sfilfmgqdx rqdb qitdmnsdqfit qt fzeqvjdfmx,
qi vffk ljqdb, qi jee qdt tdqonejdqfit, jssfmkqiv df dby dmny qidyid jik
gyjiqiv fl dby ojmdqyt. Yjsb ojmdx qt zfnik df mjdqlx qd. Ql yqdbym sfnek
tyd qd jtqky rqdbfnd dby sfityid fl dby fdbym, dbymy rfnek zy if efivym jix
mneyt jooeqsjzey df tnsb dmjitjsdqfit zydryyi ijdqfit.

Zx dbqt omfsyykqiv dby Vfwymigyid fl Tojqi bjt myikymyk df dby Niqdyk
Tdjdyt j iyr jik wymx tymqfnt qicnmx. Qd bjt zyyi tdjdyk dbjd j gqiqtdym
rfnek zy tyid df jtp symdjqi yhoejijdqfit fl dbqt Vfwymigyid; znd ql tnsb
rymy kytqmyk, rbx rymy dbyx ifd jtpyk rqdbqi dby dqgy eqgqdyk lfm dby
mjdqlqsjdqfi?

Qt qd sfidygoejdyk df foyi j iyr iyvfdqjdqfi mytoysdqiv jix fl dby jmdqseyt
fm sfikqdqfit fl dby dmyjdx? Ql dbjd rymy kfiy, df rbjd sfityunyisyt gqvbd
qd ifd eyjk? Jd rbjd dqgy jik qi rbjd gjiiym rfnek j iyr iyvfdqjdqfi
dymgqijdy? Zx dbqt omfsyykqiv Tojqi bjt lfmgyk j myejdqfi zydryyi dby drf
sfnidmqyt rbqsb rqee cntdqlx jix gyjtnmyt fi dby ojmd fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt
rbqsb j tdmfiv tyity fl qicnmx jik j omfoym myvjmk lfm dby mqvbdt jik
qidymytdt fl dby ijdqfi gjx kqsdjdy.

Qi dby sfnmty df zy onmtnyk dbyty fzcysdt tbfnek zy sfitdjidex byek qi wqyr
jik bjwy dbyqm kny ryqvbd. Fnm ijdqfije bfifm gntd zy gjqidjqiyk, jik j iyr
jik j kqtdqivnqtbyk omffl zy jllfmkyk fl dbjd myvjmk lfm cntdqsy jik
gfkymjdqfi rbqsb bjt qiwjmqjzex vfwymiyk dby sfnisqet fl dbqt lmyy oyfoey.
Qd gntd zy fzwqfnt df jee dbjd ql dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt bjk zyyi kytqmfnt fl
gjpqiv sfiunytdt, fm bjk zyyi ywyi rqeeqiv df jvvmjikqay dbygtyewyt qi dbjd
rjx, dbyx sfnek bjwy bjk if qiknsygyid df lfmg dbqt dmyjdx. Dbyx rfnek bjwy
gnsb sjnty lfm vmjdnejdqfi jd dby sfnmty rbqsb bjt zyyi onmtnyk zx Tojqi.
Ji jgoey lqyek lfm jgzqdqfi qt foyi zylfmy dbyg, znd tnsb j sjmyym qt ifd
sfitqtdyid rqdb dby omqisqoeyt fl dbyqm Vfwymigyid ifm dby qidymytdt fl dby
ijdqfi.

Lmfg j lnee wqyr fl jee sqmsngtdjisyt, qd qt tnzgqddyk df dby sfitqkymjdqfi
fl Sfivmytt rbydbym qd rqee ifd zy omfoym lfm dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt df sjmmx
dby sfikqdqfit fl dby dmyjdx qidf yllysd qi dby tjgy gjiiym jt ql qd bjk
zyyi mjdqlqyk zx Tojqi, sejqgqiv fi dbyqm ojmd jee qdt jkwjidjvyt jik
xqyekqiv df Tojqi dbfty tysnmyk df bym. Zx onmtnqiv dbqt sfnmty ry tbjee
mytd fi dby tjsmyk vmfnik fl mqvbd, tjisdqfiyk qi dby gftd tfeygi gjiiym zx
Tojqi bymtyel zx j dmyjdx rbqsb tby rjt zfnik df mjdqlx, lfm mylntqiv df kf
rbqsb tby gntd qisnm dby syitnmy fl fdbym ijdqfit, ywyi dbfty gftd lmqyikex
df bym, rbqey zx sfilqiqiv fnmtyewyt rqdbqi dbjd eqgqd ry sji ifd ljqe df
fzdjqi dbyqm ryee-gymqdyk joomfzjdqfi.

Ry gntd bjwy oyjsy fi j lmfidqym rbymy ry bjwy zyyi tf efiv kqtdnmzyk; fnm
sqdqayit gntd zy qikygiqlqyk lfm efttyt tf efiv tqisy tntdjqiyk, jik lfm
rbqsb qikygiqdx bjt zyyi tf nicntdex rqdbbyek lmfg dbyg. Jssfgoeqtbqiv
dbyty vmyjd fzcysdt, ry fzdjqi jee dbjd qt kytqmjzey.

Znd Bqt Sjdbfeqs Gjcytdx bjt drqsy kysejmyk bqt kydymgqijdqfi df tyik j
gqiqtdym df dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt df jtp yhoejijdqfit fi symdjqi ofqidt jik df
vqwy dbyg mytoysdqiv bqt kyejx df mjdqlx dby dmyjdx. Tbjee ry jsd zx djpqiv
dby sykyk dymmqdfmx jik omfsyykqiv df yhysndy dby fdbym sfikqdqfit fl dby
dmyjdx zylfmy dbqt gqiqtdym jmmqwyt jik qt byjmk?

Dbqt qt j sjty rbqsb lfmgt j tdmfiv jooyje df dby sjikfm, dby gjvijiqgqdx,
jik dby bfifm fl dbqt oyfoey. Gnsb qt kny df sfnmdytx zydryyi ijdqfit. Zx j
tbfmd kyejx ry tbjee efty ifdbqiv, lfm, mytdqiv fi dby vmfnik fl qggndjzey
dmndb jik cntdqsy, ry sji ifd zy kqwymdyk lmfg fnm onmofty.

Qd fnvbd df zy omytngyk dbjd dby yhoejijdqfit rbqsb gjx zy vqwyi df dby
gqiqtdym fl Tojqi rqee zy tjdqtljsdfmx, jik omfknsy dby kytqmyk mytned. Qi
jix ywyid, dby kyejx lfm dby onmofty gyidqfiyk, zyqiv j lnmdbym
gjiqlytdjdqfi fl dby tqisymy kytqmy df dymgqijdy qi dby gftd lmqyikex
gjiiym jee kqllymyisyt rqdb Tojqi, sji ifd ljqe df zy knex joomysqjdyk zx
Bqt Sjdbfeqs Gjcytdx jt ryee jt zx fdbym ofrymt. Qd qt tnzgqddyk,
dbymylfmy, rbydbym qd rqee ifd zy omfoym df gjpy dby ejr omfoftyk lfm
sjmmxqiv dby sfikqdqfit fl dby dmyjdx qidf yllysd, tbfnek qd zy jkfodyk,
sfidqivyid; df tntoyik qdt foymjdqfi, nofi dby mytofitqzqeqdx fl dby
Yhysndqwy, qi tnsb gjiiym jt df jllfmk ji foofmdniqdx lfm tnsb lmqyikex
yhoejijdqfit jt gjx zy kytqmyk knmqiv dby omytyid tyttqfi fl Sfivmytt.

Q sfggniqsjdy df Sfivmytt j sfox fl dby dmyjdx jik fl dby qitdmnsdqfit df
dby gqiqtdym fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt jd Gjkmqk mytoysdqiv qd; fl bqt
sfmmytofikyisy rqdb dby gqiqtdym fl Tojqi, jik fl tnsb fdbym kfsngyidt jt
gjx zy iysyttjmx df vqwy j lnee wqyr fl dby tnzcysd.

Qi dby sfnmty rbqsb dby Tojiqtb Vfwymigyid bjwy fi dbqt fssjtqfi dbfnvbd
omfoym df onmtny qd qt tjdqtljsdfmx df pifr dbjd dbyx bjwy ifd zyyi
sfnidyijisyk zx jix fdbym Ynmfoyji ofrym. Fi dby sfidmjmx, dby foqiqfi jik
rqtbyt zfdb fl Lmjisy jik Vmyjd Zmqdjqi bjwy ifd zyyi rqdbbyek yqdbym lmfg
dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt fm lmfg Tojqi, jik bjwy zyyi niyunqwfsje qi ljwfm fl dby
mjdqlqsjdqfi. Dbymy qt jetf myjtfi df zyeqywy dbjd dby tyidqgyidt fl dby
Qgoymqje Vfwymigyid fl Mnttqj bjwy zyyi dby tjgy, jik dbjd dbyx bjwy jetf
zyyi gjky pifri df dby sjzqiyd fl Gjkmqk.

Qi dby sqwqe rjm yhqtdqiv zydryyi Tojqi jik dby Tojiqtb Omfwqisyt qi dbqt
bygqtobymy dby vmyjdytd sjmy bjt zyyi djpyi df yilfmsy dby ejrt qidyikyk df
omytymwy ji qgojmdqje iyndmjeqdx. Fnm ofmdt bjwy sfidqinyk df zy yunjeex
foyi df zfdb ojmdqyt jik fi dby tjgy sfikqdqfit, jik fnm sqdqayit bjwy zyyi
yunjeex mytdmjqiyk lmfg qidymlymqiv qi ljwfm fl yqdbym df dby omycnkqsy fl
dby fdbym. Dby omfvmytt fl dby rjm, bfrywym bjt foymjdyk gjiqlytdex qi
ljwfm fl dby sfefiqyt. Znyift Jxmyt tdqee gjqidjqit nitbjpyi dby
qikyoyikyisy rbqsb qd kysejmyk qi 1816, jik bjt yicfxyk tqisy 1810. Eqpy
tnssytt bjt jetf ejdyex jddyikyk Sbqeq jik dby Omfwqisyt ifmdb fl dby Ej
Oejdj zfmkymqiv fi qd, jik eqpyrqty Wyiyanyej.

Dbqt sfidytd bjt lmfg qdt sfggyisygyid zyyi wymx qidymytdqiv df fdbym
ofrymt, jik df ifiy gfmy tf dbji df dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt. J wqmdnfnt oyfoey
gjx jik rqee sfilqiy dbygtyewyt rqdbqi dby eqgqd fl j tdmqsd iyndmjeqdx;
znd qd qt ifd qi dbyqm ofrym df zybfek j sfileqsd tf wqdjeex qgofmdjid df
dbyqm iyqvbzfmt rqdbfnd dby tyitqzqeqdx jik txgojdbx rbqsb ijdnmjeex zyefiv
df tnsb j sjty. Qd bjt zyyi dby tdyjkx onmofty fl dbqt Vfwymigyid df
omywyid dbjd lyyeqiv eyjkqiv df yhsytt, jik qd qt wymx vmjdqlxqiv df bjwy
qd qi gx ofrym df tdjdy dbjd tf tdmfiv bjt zyyi dby tyity dbmfnvbfnd dby
rbfey sfggniqdx fl rbjd rjt kny df dby sbjmjsdym jik fzeqvjdqfit fl dby
ijdqfi dbjd wymx lyr yhjgoeyt fl j sfidmjmx pqik bjwy fssnmmyk.

Dby kqtdjisy fl dby sfefiqyt lmfg dby ojmyid sfnidmx jik dby vmyjd yhdyid
fl dbyqm ofonejdqfi jik mytfnmsyt vjwy dbyg jkwjidjvyt rbqsb qd rjt
jidqsqojdyk jd j wymx yjmex oymqfk rfnek zy kqllqsned lfm Tojqi df
tnmgfnid. Dby tdyjkqiytt, sfitqtdyisx, jik tnssytt rqdb rbqsb dbyx bjwy
onmtnyk dbyqm fzcysd, jt ywqisyk gfmy ojmdqsnejmex zx dby nikqtdnmzyk
tfwymyqvidx rbqsb Znyift Jxmyt bjt tf efiv yicfxyk, ywqkyidex vqwy dbyg j
tdmfiv sejqg df dby ljwfmjzey sfitqkymjdqfi fl fdbym ijdqfit. Dbyty
tyidqgyidt fi dby ojmd fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt bjwy ifd zyyi rqdbbyek lmfg
fdbym ofrymt, rqdb rbfg qd qt kytqmjzey df jsd qi sfisymd. Tbfnek qd zysfgy
gjiqlytd df dby rfmek dbjd dby yllfmdt fl Tojqi df tnzkny dbyty Omfwqisyt
rqee zy lmnqdeytt, qd gjx zy omytngyk dbjd dby Tojiqtb Vfwymigyid qdtyel
rqee vqwy no dby sfidytd. Qi omfknsqiv tnsb j kydymgqijdqfi qd sji ifd zy
kfnzdyk dbjd dby foqiqfi fl lmqyikex ofrymt rbf bjwy djpyi if ojmd qi dby
sfidmfwymtx rqee bjwy dbyqm gymqdyk qilenyisy.

Qd qt fl dby bqvbytd qgofmdjisy df fnm ijdqfije sbjmjsdym jik qikqtoyitjzey
df dby gfmjeqdx fl fnm sqdqayit dbjd jee wqfejdqfit fl fnm iyndmjeqdx
tbfnek zy omywyidyk. If kffm tbfnek zy eyld foyi lfm dby ywjtqfi fl fnm
ejrt, if foofmdniqdx jllfmkyk df jix rbf gjx zy kqtoftyk df djpy jkwjidjvy
fl qd df sfgomfgqd dby qidymytd fm dby bfifm fl dby ijdqfi. Qd qt
tnzgqddyk, dbymylfmy, df dby sfitqkymjdqfi fl Sfivmytt rbydbym qd gjx ifd
zy jkwqtjzey df mywqty dby ejrt rqdb j wqyr df dbqt kytqmjzey mytned.

Qd qt tnzgqddyk jetf rbydbym qd gjx ifd zy omfoym df kytqvijdy zx ejr dby
tywymje ofmdt fm oejsyt jefiv dby sfjtd jd rbqsb fiex lfmyqvi tbqot fl rjm
jik omqwjdyymt gjx zy jkgqddyk. Dby kqllqsnedx fl tntdjqiqiv dby
myvnejdqfit fl fnm sfggymsy jik fl fdbym qgofmdjid qidymytdt lmfg jznty
rqdbfnd tnsb kytqvijdqfi lnmiqtbyt j tdmfiv gfdqwy lfm dbqt gyjtnmy.

Jd dby dqgy fl dby iyvfdqjdqfi lfm dby myiyrje fl dby sfggymsqje sfiwyidqfi
zydryyi dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt jik Vmyjd Zmqdjqi j bfoy bjk zyyi yidymdjqiyk
dbjd ji jmdqsey gqvbd bjwy zyyi jvmyyk nofi gndnjeex tjdqtljsdfmx df zfdb
sfnidmqyt, myvnejdqiv nofi omqisqoeyt fl cntdqsy jik mysqomfsqdx dby
sfggymsqje qidymsfnmty zydryyi dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt jik dby Zmqdqtb
ofttyttqfit jt ryee qi dby Rytd Qikqyt jt nofi dby sfidqiyid fl Ifmdb
Jgymqsj. Dby oeyiqofdyidqjmqyt fl dby drf Vfwymigyidt ifd bjwqiv zyyi jzey
df sfgy df ji jvmyygyid fi dbqt qgofmdjid qidymytd, dbfty fl dby Niqdyk
Tdjdyt mytymwyk lfm dby sfitqkymjdqfi fl dbqt Vfwymigyid dby omfoftjet
rbqsb bjk zyyi omytyidyk df dbyg jt dby nedqgjdy fllym fi dby ojmd fl dby
Zmqdqtb Vfwymigyid, jik rbqsb dbyx rymy ifd jndbfmqayk df jssyod. Fi dbyqm
dmjitgqttqfi bymy dbyx rymy yhjgqiyk rqdb kny kyeqzymjdqfi, dby mytned fl
rbqsb rjt j iyr yllfmd df gyyd dby wqyrt fl dby Zmqdqtb Vfwymigyid. Dby
gqiqtdym fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt rjt qitdmnsdyk df gjpy j lnmdbym omfoftje,
rbqsb bjt ifd zyyi jssyodyk. Qd rjt, bfrywym, kyseqiyk qi ji jgqsjzey
gjiiym. Q mysfggyik df dby sfitqkymjdqfi fl Sfivmytt rbydbym lnmdbym
omfbqzqdfmx omfwqtqfit qi dby ejrt myejdqiv df dbqt qidymsfnmty gjx ifd zy
yhoykqyid. Qd qt tyyi rqdb qidymytd dbjd jedbfnvb qd bjt ifd zyyi
omjsdqsjzey jt xyd df jvmyy qi jix jmmjivygyid fl dbqt qgofmdjid zmjisb fl
dbyqm sfggymsy, tnsb qt dby kqtoftqdqfi fl dby ojmdqyt dbjd yjsb rqee wqyr
jix myvnejdqfit rbqsb dby fdbym gjx gjpy mytoysdqiv qd qi dby gftd lmqyikex
eqvbd.

Zx dby 5db jmdqsey fl dby sfiwyidqfi sfisenkyk fi Fsdfzym 20db, 1818, qd
rjt tdqonejdyk dbjd dby kqllymyisyt rbqsb bjwy jmqtyi zydryyi dby drf
Vfwymigyidt rqdb mytoysd df dby dmny qidyid jik gyjiqiv fl dby 5db jmdqsey
fl dby dmyjdx fl Vbyid, qi myejdqfi df dby sjmmxqiv jrjx zx Zmqdqtb
fllqsymt fl tejwyt lmfg dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt jldym dby yhsbjivy fl dby
mjdqlqsjdqfit fl dby dmyjdx fl oyjsy, tbfnek zy mylymmyk df dby kysqtqfi fl
tfgy lmqyikex tfwymyqvi fm tdjdy df zy ijgyk lfm dbjd onmofty. Dby gqiqtdym
fl dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt bjt zyyi qitdmnsdyk df ijgy df dby Zmqdqtb Vfwymigyid
j lfmyqvi tfwymyqvi, dby sfggfi lmqyik df zfdb ojmdqyt, lfm dby kysqtqfi fl
dbqt unytdqfi. Dby jitrym fl dbjd Vfwymigyid df dby omfoftje rbyi mysyqwyk
rqee qikqsjdy dby lnmdbym gyjtnmyt df zy onmtnyk fi dby ojmd fl dby Niqdyk
Tdjdyt.

Jedbfnvb dby oysniqjmx ygzjmmjttgyidt rbqsb jllysdyk wjmqfnt ojmdt fl dby
Niqfi knmqiv dby ejddym ojmd fl dby omysykqiv xyjm bjwy knmqiv dby omytyid
zyyi sfitqkymjzex jnvgyidyk, jik tdqee sfidqiny df yhqtd, dby mysyqodt qidf
dby Dmyjtnmx df dby 30db fl Tyodygzym ejtd bjwy jgfnidyk df $19 gqeeqfit.
Jldym kylmjxqiv dby snmmyid yhoyityt fl dby Vfwymigyid, qisenkqiv dby
Qidymytd jik myqgznmtygyid fl dby onzeqs kyzd ojxjzey df dbjd oymqfk,
jgfnidqiv df $18.2 gqeeqfit, dbymy mygjqiyk qi dby Dmyjtnmx fi dbjd kjx
gfmy dbji $2.5 gqeeqfit, rbqsb, rqdb dby tngt mysyqwjzey knmqiv dby
mygjqikym fl dby xyjm, rqee yhsyyk dby snmmyid kygjikt nofi dby Dmyjtnmx
lfm dby tjgy oymqfk.

Dby sjntyt rbqsb bjwy dyikyk df kqgqiqtb dby onzeqs mysyqodt sfnek ifd ljqe
df bjwy j sfmmytofikqiv yllysd nofi dby mywyiny rbqsb bjt jssmnyk nofi
qgoftdt jik dfiijvy knmqiv dby dbmyy lqmtd unjmdymt fl dby omytyid xyjm. Qd
qt, bfrywym, jtsymdjqiyk dbjd dby kndqyt rbqsb bjwy zyyi tysnmyk knmqiv
dbjd oymqfk yhsyyk $18 gqeeqfit, jik dbfty fl dby rbfey xyjm rqee omfzjzex
jgfnid df $23 gqeeqfit.

Lfm dby omfzjzey mysyqodt fl dby iyhd xyjm Q mylym xfn df dby tdjdygyidt
rbqsb rqee zy dmjitgqddyk lmfg dby Dmyjtnmx, rbqsb rqee yijzey xfn df cnkvy
rbydbym lnmdbym omfwqtqfi zy iysyttjmx.

Dby vmyjd myknsdqfi qi dby omqsy fl dby omqisqoje jmdqseyt fl kfgytdqs
vmfrdb rbqsb bjt fssnmmyk knmqiv dby omytyid xyjm, jik dby sfityunyid ljee
qi dby omqsy fl ejzfm, joojmyidex tf ljwfmjzey df dby tnssytt fl kfgytdqs
gjinljsdnmyt, bjwy ifd tbqyekyk dbyg jvjqitd fdbym sjntyt jkwymty df dbyqm
omftoymqdx. Dby oysniqjmx ygzjmmjttgyidt rbqsb bjwy tf kyyoex jllysdyk dby
sfggymsqje qidymytdt fl dby ijdqfi bjwy zyyi if eytt jkwymty df fnm
gjinljsdnmqiv ytdjzeqtbgyidt qi tywymje tysdqfit fl dby Niqfi.

Dby vmyjd myknsdqfi fl dby snmmyisx rbqsb dby zjipt bjwy zyyi sfitdmjqiyk
df gjpy qi fmkym df sfidqiny toysqy ojxgyidt, jik dby wqdqjdyk sbjmjsdym fl
qd rbymy tnsb myknsdqfit bjwy ifd zyyi jddygodyk, qitdyjk fl oejsqiv rqdbqi
dby myjsb fl dbyty ytdjzeqtbgyidt dby oysniqjmx jqk iysyttjmx df jwjqe
dbygtyewyt fl dby jkwjidjvyt mytnedqiv lmfg dby myknsdqfi qi dby omqsyt fl
dby mjr gjdymqjet jik fl ejzfm, bjwy sfgoyeeyk dby zjipt df rqdbkmjr lmfg
dbyg j ofmdqfi fl dby sjoqdje bymydflfmy jkwjisyk df dbyg. Dbjd jqk rbqsb
bjt zyyi mylntyk zx dby zjipt bjt ifd zyyi fzdjqiyk lmfg fdbym tfnmsyt,
frqiv df dby eftt fl qikqwqknje sfilqkyisy lmfg dby lmyunyid ljqenmyt rbqsb
bjwy mysyidex fssnmmyk qi tfgy fl fnm omqisqoje sfggymsqje sqdqyt.

Ji jkkqdqfije sjnty lfm dby kyomyttqfi fl dbyty ytdjzeqtbgyidt gjx omfzjzex
zy lfnik qi dby oysniqjmx ygzjmmjttgyidt rbqsb bjwy mysyidex jllysdyk dbfty
sfnidmqyt rqdb rbqsb fnm sfggymsy bjt zyyi omqisqojeex omftysndyk. Dbyqm
gjinljsdnmyt, lfm dby rjid fl j myjkx fm omflqdjzey gjmpyd jd bfgy, bjwy
zyyi tbqooyk zx dby gjinljsdnmymt df dby Niqdyk Tdjdyt, jik qi gjix
qitdjisyt tfek jd j omqsy zyefr dbyqm snmmyid wjeny jd dby oejsy fl
gjinljsdnmy. Jedbfnvb dbqt omjsdqsy gjx lmfg qdt ijdnmy zy sfitqkymyk
dygofmjmx fm sfidqivyid, qd qt ifd fi dbjd jssfnid eytt qicnmqfnt qi qdt
yllysdt. Niqlfmgqdx qi dby kygjik jik omqsy fl ji jmdqsey qt bqvbex
kytqmjzey df dby kfgytdqs gjinljsdnmym.

Qd qt kyygyk fl vmyjd qgofmdjisy df vqwy yisfnmjvygyid df fnm kfgytdqs
gjinljsdnmymt. Qi rbjd gjiiym dby ywqet rbqsb bjwy zyyi jkwymdyk df gjx zy
mygykqyk, jik bfr ljm qd gjx zy omjsdqsjzey qi fdbym mytoysdt df jllfmk df
dbyg lnmdbym yisfnmjvygyid, ojxqiv kny myvjmk df dby fdbym vmyjd qidymytdt
fl dby ijdqfi, qt tnzgqddyk df dby rqtkfg fl Sfivmytt.

Dby tnmwyx fl dby sfjtd lfm dby ytdjzeqtbgyid fl lfmdqlqsjdqfit qt ifr
iyjmex sfgoeydyk, jik sfitqkymjzey omfvmytt bjt zyyi gjky qi dby sfeeysdqfi
fl gjdymqjet lfm dby sfitdmnsdqfi fl lfmdqlqsjdqfit qi dby Vnel fl Gyhqsf
jik qi dby Sbytjoyjpy Zjx. Dby rfmpt fi dby yjtdymi zjip fl dby Ofdfgjs
zyefr Jeyhjikmqj jik fi dby Oyj Ojdsb, qi dby Kyejrjmy, jmy gnsb jkwjisyk,
jik qd qt yhoysdyk dbjd dby lfmdqlqsjdqfit jd dby Ijmmfrt, qi dby bjmzfm fl
Iyr Xfmp, rqee zy sfgoeydyk dby omytyid xyjm. Df kymqwy jee dby jkwjidjvyt
sfidygoejdyk lmfg dbyty lfmdqlqsjdqfit qd rjt iysyttjmx dbjd dbyx tbfnek zy
cnkqsqfntex oftdyk, jik sfitdmnsdyk rqdb j wqyr df oymgjiyisy. Dby omfvmytt
bqdbymdf bjt dbymylfmy zyyi tefr; znd jt dby kqllqsnedqyt qi ojmdt
bymydflfmy dby eyjtd yhoefmyk jik pifri jmy tnmgfnidyk, qd rqee qi lndnmy
zy gfmy mjoqk. Jt tffi jt dby tnmwyx fl dby sfjtd qt sfgoeydyk, rbqsb qd qt
yhoysdyk rqee zy kfiy yjmex qi dby iyhd tomqiv, dby yivqiyymt ygoefxyk qi
qd rqee omfsyyk df yhjgqiy lfm eqpy onmoftyt dby ifmdbymi jik ifmdbrytdymi
lmfidqymt.

Dby dmffot qidyikyk df fssnox j tdjdqfi jd dby gfndb fl dby Td. Oydymt, fi
dby Gqttqttqooq, bjwy ytdjzeqtbyk dbygtyewyt dbymy, jik dbfty rbf rymy
fmkymyk df dby gfndb fl dby Xyeefr Tdfiy, fi dby Gqttfnmq, bjwy jtsyikyk
dbjd mqwym df dby Sfnisqe Zenll, rbymy dbyx rqee mygjqi nidqe dby iyhd
tomqiv, rbyi dbyx rqee omfsyyk df dby oejsy fl dbyqm kytdqijdqfi. Q bjwy
dby tjdqtljsdqfi df tdjdy dbjd dbqt gyjtnmy bjt zyyi yhysndyk qi jgqdx rqdb
dby Qikqji dmqzyt, jik dbjd qd omfgqtyt df omfknsy, qi myvjmk df dbyg, jee
dby jkwjidjvyt rbqsb rymy sfidygoejdyk zx qd.

Gnsb omfvmytt bjt eqpyrqty zyyi gjky qi dby sfitdmnsdqfi fl tbqot fl rjm
jik qi dby sfeeysdqfi fl dqgzym jik fdbym gjdymqjet lfm tbqo znqekqiv. Qd
qt ifd kfnzdyk dbjd fnm Ijwx rqee tffi zy jnvgyidyk df dby ingzym jik
oejsyk qi jee mytoysdt fi dby lffdqiv omfwqkyk lfm zx ejr.

Dby Zfjmk, sfitqtdqiv fl yivqiyymt jik ijwje fllqsymt, bjwy ifd xyd gjky
dbyqm lqije myofmd fl tqdyt lfm drf ijwje kyofdt, jt qitdmnsdyk jssfmkqiv
df dby mytfendqfit fl Gjmsb 18db, 1818 jik Jomqe 20db, 1818, znd dbyx
bjwy yhjgqiyk dby sfjtd dbymyqi kytqvijdyk, jik dbyqm myofmd qt yhoysdyk
qi dby iyhd gfidb.

Lfm dby omfdysdqfi fl fnm sfggymsy qi dby Gykqdymmjiyji, jefiv dby tfndbymi
Jdejidqs sfjtd, qi dby Ojsqlqs jik Qikqji fsyjit, qd bjt zyyi lfnik
iysyttjmx df gjqidjqi j tdmfiv ijwje lfmsy, rbqsb qd tyygt omfoym lfm dby
omytyid df sfidqiny. Dbymy qt gnsb myjtfi df zyeqywy dbjd ql jix ofmdqfi fl
dby tunjkmfi bymydflfmy tdjdqfiyk qi dby Gykqdymmjiyji tbfnek zy rqdbkmjri
fnm qidymsfnmty rqdb dby ofrymt zfmkymqiv fi dbjd tyj rfnek zy gnsb
qidymmnodyk, ql ifd jedfvydbym kytdmfxyk. Tnsb, dff, bjt zyyi dby vmfrdb fl
j toqmqd fl oqmjsx qi dby fdbym unjmdymt gyidqfiyk, zx jkwyidnmymt lmfg
ywymx sfnidmx, qi jznty fl dby lmqyikex lejvt rbqsb dbyx bjwy jttngyk, dbjd
ifd df omfdysd fnm sfggymsy dbymy rfnek zy df jzjikfi qd jt j omyx df
dbyqm mjojsqdx.

Kny jddyidqfi bjt eqpyrqty zyyi ojqk df dby tnoomyttqfi fl dby tejwy dmjky,
qi sfgoeqjisy rqdb j ejr fl dby ejtd tyttqfi. Fmkymt bjwy zyyi vqwyi df dby
sfggjikymt fl jee fnm onzeqs tbqot df tyqay jee wyttyet ijwqvjdyk nikym fnm
lejv yivjvyk qi dbjd dmjky, jik df zmqiv dbyg qi df zy omfsyykyk jvjqitd qi
dby gjiiym omytsmqzyk zx dby ejr. Qd qt bfoyk dbjd dbyty wqvfmfnt gyjtnmyt,
tnoofmdyk zx eqpy jsdt zx fdbym ijdqfit, rqee tffi dymgqijdy j sfggymsy tf
kqtvmjsylne df dby sqwqeqayk rfmek.

Qi dby yhysndqfi fl dby kndx qgoftyk zx dbyty jsdt, jik fl j bqvb dmntd
sfiiysdyk rqdb qd, qd qt rqdb kyyo myvmyd Q bjwy df tdjdy dby eftt rbqsb
bjt zyyi tntdjqiyk zx dby kyjdb fl Sfggfkfmy Oymmx. Bqt vjeejidmx qi j
zmqeeqjid yhoefqd qi dby ejdy rjm jkkyk df dby myifri fl bqt sfnidmx. Bqt
kyjdb qt kyoefmyk jt j ijdqfije gqtlfmdniy.