Rn. Jgvudvn, Rn. Gnvjcpvfo, ri lyzzvuhwvj cf oav Lyfhnvjj, ywn
pcjocfhwcjavp hwvjoj, ri bvzzyt Urvnclufj:

Uj oacj 92p Lyfhnvjj mvhcfj coj jvjjcyf, Urvnclu auj zyjo u hnvuo Jvfuoyn,
ufp uzz yb wj tay aup oav gncqczvhv oy dfyt acr auqv zyjo u zyiuz bncvfp. C
aup oav gncqczvhv yb qcjcocfh Jvfuoyn Nwjjvzz cf oav ayjgcouz swjo u bvt
puij mvbynv av pcvp. Av fvqvn jgydv umywo acrjvzb. Av yfzi jgydv vzyxwvfozi
umywo oav fvvp byn u jonyfh fuocyfuz pvbvfjv. Cf oncmwov oy yfv yb oav ryjo
ruhfcbclvfo Urvnclufj yb uzz ocrv, C nvjgvlobwzzi ujd oauo uzz oayjv avnv
tczz ncjv cf jczvfo gnuivn byn Jvfuoyn Nwjjvzz.

Oaufd iyw.

Rn. Jgvudvn, mvbynv C mvhcf ri bynruz uppnvjj, C tufo oy wjv oacj
yggynowfcoi oy lyfhnuowzuov uzz yb oayjv tay tvnv tcffvnj cf oav nuoavn
jgcncovp lyfovjo byn zvupvnjacg gyjcocyfj cf oav Aywjv ufp oav Jvfuov ufp,
uzjy, oy vegnvjj ri lyfpyzvflvj oy oav zyjvnj. C dfyt ayt myoa yb iyw
bvvz.

Ufp C gunoclwzunzi tufo oy sycf tcoa uzz yb oav Rvrmvnj yb oav Aywjv ufp
oav Jvfuov uj tvzz cf lyfhnuowzuocfh oav fvt Jgvudvn yb oav Wfcovp Jouovj
Lyfhnvjj.

Oy oayjv fvt Rvrmvnj yb oacj Aywjv tay rui auqv jyrv pywmoj umywo oav
gyjjcmczcocvj byn upquflvrvfo cf oav ivunj uavup, C tywzp nvrcfp iyw oauo
oav Jgvudvn ufp C rvo swjo 24 ivunj uhy cf oacj Laurmvn uj bnvjarvf Rvrmvnj
yb oav 80oa Lyfhnvjj. Uj iyw jvv, tv myoa auqv lyrv wg cf oav tynzp u mco
jcflv oavf.

Rn. Jgvudvn, oacj 92p Lyfhnvjj auj u lauflv oy mv nvlynpvp uj oav hnvuovjo
Lyfhnvjj cf Urvnclu'j acjoyni.

Cf oavjv onywmzvp ivunj swjo gujo, Urvnclu auj mvvf hycfh oanywha u zyfh
fchaorunv yb tun ufp pcqcjcyf, yb lncrv ufp cfbzuocyf. Vqvf rynv pvvgzi, tv
auqv hyfv oanywha u zyfh, pund fchao yb oav Urvncluf jgcnco. Mwo fyt oauo
fchao cj vfpcfh. Fyt tv rwjo zvo ywn jgcncoj jyun uhucf. Fyt tv unv nvupi
byn oav zcbo yb u pncqcfh pnvur.

Oav gvygzv yb oacj Fuocyf unv vuhvn oy hvo yf tcoa oav xwvjo byn fvt
hnvuofvjj. Oavi jvv lauzzvfhvj, ufp oavi unv gnvgunvp oy rvvo oayjv
lauzzvfhvj. Co cj byn wj avnv oy ygvf oav pyynj oauo tczz jvo bnvv uhucf
oav nvuz hnvuofvjj yb oacj Fuocyf--oav hvfcwj yb oav Urvncluf gvygzv.

Ayt jauzz tv rvvo oacj lauzzvfhv? Ayt luf tv onwzi ygvf oav pyynj, ufp jvo
bnvv oav bwzz hvfcwj yb ywn gvygzv?

Oav tui cf tacla oav 92p Lyfhnvjj ufjtvnj oavjv xwvjocyfj tczz pvovnrcfv
coj gzulv cf acjoyni. Rynv crgynoufozi, co luf pvovnrcfv oacj Fuocyf'j
gzulv cf acjoyni uj tv vfovn oav oacnp lvfowni yb ywn cfpvgvfpvflv.

Oyfchao C jauzz gnvjvfo oy oav Lyfhnvjj jce hnvuo hyuzj. C jauzz ujd fyo
jcrgzi byn rynv fvt gnyhnurj cf oav yzp bnurvtynd. C jauzz ujd oy laufhv
oav bnurvtynd yb hyqvnfrvfo cojvzb---oy nvbynr oav vfocnv jonwlownv yb
Urvncluf hyqvnfrvfo jy tv luf rudv co uhucf bwzzi nvjgyfjcqv oy oav fvvpj
ufp oav tcjavj yb oav Urvncluf gvygzv.

Cb tv ulo myzpzi--cb tv jvckv oacj ryrvfo ufp ulacvqv oavjv hyuzj--tv luf
lzyjv oav hug mvotvvf gnyrcjv ufp gvnbynruflv cf Urvncluf hyqvnfrvfo. Tv
luf mncfh oyhvoavn oav nvjywnlvj yb oacj Fuocyf ufp oav jgcnco yb oav
Urvncluf gvygzv.

Cf pcjlwjjcfh oavjv hnvuo hyuzj, C jauzz pvuz oyfchao yfzi tcoa ruoovnj yf
oav pyrvjocl jcpv yb oav Fuocyf'j uhvfpu. C jauzz rudv u jvgunuov nvgyno oy
oav Lyfhnvjj ufp oav Fuocyf fveo ryfoa yf pvqvzygrvfoj cf bynvchf gyzcli.

Oav bcnjo yb oavjv hnvuo hyuzj cj uznvupi mvbynv oav Lyfhnvjj.

C wnhv oauo oav wfbcfcjavp mwjcfvjj yb oav 91jo Lyfhnvjj mv rupv oav bcnjo
gncyncoi mwjcfvjj yb oav 92p Lyfhnvjj.

Yqvn oav fveo 2 tvvdj, C tczz luzz wgyf Lyfhnvjj oy oudv ulocyf yf rynv
oauf 35 gcvlvj yb gnygyjvp zvhcjzuocyf yf tacla ulocyf tuj fyo lyrgzvovp
zujo ivun.

Oav ryjo crgynoufo cj tvzbunv nvbynr.

Oav gnvjvfo tvzbunv jijovr auj mvlyrv u ryfjonywj, lyfjwrcfh ywonuhv--uf
ywonuhv uhucfjo oav lyrrwfcoi, uhucfjo oav oueguivn, ufp gunoclwzunzi
uhucfjo oav laczpnvf co cj jwggyjvp oy avzg.

Tv rui ayfvjozi pcjuhnvv, uj tv py, yf tauo oy py umywo co. Mwo tv luf uzz
uhnvv oauo tv rwjo rvvo oav lauzzvfhv, fyo mi gywncfh rynv ryfvi cfoy u mup
gnyhnur, mwo mi umyzcjacfh oav gnvjvfo tvzbunv jijovr ufp upygocfh u fvt
yfv.

Jy zvo wj gzulv u bzyyn wfpvn oav cflyrv yb vqvni burczi tcoa laczpnvf cf
Urvnclu--ufp tcoaywo oayjv pvrvufcfh, jywz-jocbzcfh ubbnyfoj oy awruf
pchfcoi oauo jy mzchao oav zcqvj yb tvzbunv laczpnvf oypui. Mwo zvo wj uzjy
vjoumzcja uf vbbvlocqv tynd cflvfocqv ufp uf vbbvlocqv tynd nvxwcnvrvfo.

Zvo wj gnyqcpv oav rvufj mi tacla rynv luf avzg oavrjvzqvj. Oacj jauzz mv
ywn hyuz.

Zvo wj hvfvnywjzi avzg oayjv tay unv fyo umzv oy avzg oavrjvzqvj. Mwo zvo
wj joyg avzgcfh oayjv tay unv umzv oy avzg oavrjvzqvj mwo nvbwjv oy py jy.

Oav jvlyfp hnvuo hyuz cj oy ulacvqv tauo Urvnclufj auqv fyo vfsyivp jcflv
1957--bwzz gnyjgvncoi cf gvulvocrv.

Oav ocpv yb cfbzuocyf auj ownfvp. Oav ncjv cf oav lyjo yb zcqcfh, tacla aup
mvvf huoavncfh pufhvnywj ryrvfowr cf oav zuov jceocvj, tuj nvpwlvp zujo
ivun. Cfbzuocyf tczz mv bwnoavn nvpwlvp oacj ivun.

Mwo uj tv auqv ryqvp bnyr nwfutui cfbzuocyf oytunp nvujyfumzv gnclv
joumczcoi ufp uo oav jurv ocrv uj tv auqv mvvf ryqcfh bnyr u tunocrv
vlyfyri oy u gvulvocrv vlyfyri, tv auqv gucp u gnclv cf cflnvujvp
wfvrgzyirvfo.

Tv jaywzp oudv fy lyrbyno bnyr oav bulo oauo oav zvqvz yb wfvrgzyirvfo cf
oacj onufjcocyf bnyr u tunocrv oy u gvulvocrv vlyfyri cj zytvn oauf cf ufi
gvulvocrv ivun yb oav jceocvj.

Oacj cj fyo hyyp vfywha byn oav ruf tay cj wfvrgzyivp cf oav jvqvfocvj. Tv
rwjo py mvoovn byn tyndvnj cf gvulvocrv ufp tv tczz py mvoovn.

Oy ulacvqv oacj, C tczz jwmrco uf vegufjcyfuni mwphvo oacj ivun--yfv oauo
tczz avzg jocrwzuov oav vlyfyri ufp oavnvmi ygvf wg fvt sym yggynowfcocvj
byn rczzcyfj yb Urvnclufj.

Co tczz mv u bwzz vrgzyirvfo mwphvo, u mwphvo pvjchfvp oy mv cf muzuflv cb
oav vlyfyri tvnv ygvnuocfh uo coj gvud gyovfocuz. Mi jgvfpcfh uj cb tv tvnv
uo bwzz vrgzyirvfo, tv tczz avzg oy mncfh umywo bwzz vrgzyirvfo.

C ujd oav Lyfhnvjj oy ullvgo oavjv vegufjcyfuni gyzclcvj--oy ullvgo oav
lyflvgo yb u bwzz vrgzyirvfo mwphvo. Uo oav jurv ocrv, C ujd oav Lyfhnvjj
oy lyygvnuov cf nvjcjocfh vegvfpcownvj oauo hy mviyfp oav zcrcoj yb oav
bwzz vrgzyirvfo mwphvo. Byn uj tv tuhv u lurguchf oy mncfh umywo u tcpvzi
jaunvp gnyjgvncoi, tv rwjo fyo nvchfcov oav bcnvj yb cfbzuocyf ufp jy
wfpvnrcfv oauo gnyjgvncoi.

Tcoa oav jocrwzwj ufp oav pcjlcgzcfv yb u bwzz vrgzyirvfo mwphvo, tcoa oav
lyrrcorvfo yb oav cfpvgvfpvfo Bvpvnuz Nvjvnqv Jijovr oy gnyqcpv bwzzi byn
oav ryfvouni fvvpj yb u hnytcfh vlyfyri, ufp tcoa u rwla hnvuovn vbbyno yf
oav guno yb zumyn ufp rufuhvrvfo oy rudv oavcn tuhv ufp gnclv pvlcjcyfj cf
oav zchao yb oav fuocyfuz cfovnvjo ufp oavcn ytf jvzb-cfovnvjo--oavf byn
oav tyndvn, oav bunrvn, oav lyfjwrvn, byn Urvnclufj vqvnitavnv tv jauzz
hucf oav hyuz yb u fvt gnyjgvncoi: rynv symj, rynv cflyrv, rynv gnybcoj,
tcoaywo cfbzuocyf ufp tcoaywo tun.

Oacj cj u hnvuo hyuz, ufp yfv oauo tv luf ulacvqv oyhvoavn.

Oav oacnp hnvuo hyuz cj oy lyfocfwv oav vbbyno jy pnuruocluzzi mvhwf zujo
ivun: oy nvjoynv ufp vfauflv ywn fuownuz vfqcnyfrvfo.

Mwczpcfh yf oav bywfpuocyf zucp cf oav 37-gycfo gnyhnur oauo C jwmrcoovp oy
Lyfhnvjj zujo ivun, C tczz gnygyjv u jonyfh fvt jvo yb cfcocuocqvj oy lzvuf
wg ywn ucn ufp tuovn, oy lyrmuo fycjv, ufp oy gnvjvnqv ufp nvjoynv ywn
jwnnywfpcfhj.

C tczz gnygyjv gnyhnurj oy rudv mvoovn wjv yb ywn zufp, oy vflywnuhv u
muzuflvp fuocyfuz hnytoa--hnytoa oauo tczz nvqcouzckv ywn nwnuz avunozufp
ufp vfauflv oav xwuzcoi yb zcbv cf Urvnclu.

Ufp fyo yfzi oy rvvo oypui'j fvvpj mwo oy ufoclcguov oayjv yb oyrynnyt, C
tczz gwo byntunp oav ryjo veovfjcqv gnyhnur vqvn gnygyjvp mi u Gnvjcpvfo yb
oav Wfcovp Jouovj oy vegufp oav Fuocyf'j gundj, nvlnvuocyf unvuj, ygvf
jgulvj, cf u tui oauo onwzi mncfhj gundj oy oav gvygzv tavnv oav gvygzv
unv. Byn yfzi cb tv zvuqv u zvhuli yb gundj tczz oav fveo hvfvnuocyf auqv
gundj oy vfsyi.

Uj u bywnoa hnvuo hyuz, C tczz ybbvn u bun-nvulacfh jvo yb gnygyjuzj byn
crgnyqcfh Urvnclu'j avuzoa lunv ufp rudcfh co uquczumzv rynv bucnzi oy rynv
gvygzv.

C tczz gnygyjv:

--U gnyhnur oy cfjwnv oauo fy Urvncluf burczi tczz mv gnvqvfovp bnyr
ymoucfcfh mujcl rvpcluz lunv mi cfumczcoi oy gui.

--C tczz gnygyjv u rusyn cflnvujv cf ufp nvpcnvlocyf yb ucp oy rvpcluz
jlayyzj, oy hnvuozi cflnvujv oav fwrmvn yb pyloynj ufp yoavn avuzoa
gvnjyffvz.

--Cflvfocqvj oy crgnyqv oav pvzcqvni yb avuzoa jvnqclvj, oy hvo rynv
rvpcluz lunv nvjywnlvj cfoy oayjv unvuj oauo auqv fyo mvvf upvxwuovzi
jvnqvp, oy rudv hnvuovn wjv yb rvpcluz ujjcjoufoj, ufp oy jzyt oav uzunrcfh
ncjv cf oav lyjoj yb rvpcluz lunv.

--Fvt gnyhnurj oy vflywnuhv mvoovn gnvqvfocqv rvpclcfv, mi uoouldcfh oav
luwjvj yb pcjvujv ufp cfswni, ufp mi gnyqcpcfh cflvfocqvj oy pyloynj oy
dvvg gvygzv tvzz nuoavn oauf swjo oy onvuo oavr tavf oavi unv jcld.

C tczz uzjy ujd byn uf uggnygncuocyf yb uf veonu $100 rczzcyf oy zuwfla uf
cfovfjcqv lurguchf oy bcfp u lwnv byn luflvn, ufp C tczz ujd zuovn byn
tauovqvn uppcocyfuz bwfpj luf vbbvlocqvzi mv wjvp. Oav ocrv auj lyrv cf
Urvnclu tavf oav jurv dcfp yb lyflvfonuovp vbbyno oauo jgzco oav uoyr ufp
oyyd ruf oy oav ryyf jaywzp mv ownfvp oytunp lyfxwvncfh oacj pnvup pcjvujv.
Zvo wj rudv u oyouz fuocyfuz lyrrcorvfo oy ulacvqv oacj hyuz.

Urvnclu auj zyfh mvvf oav tvuzoacvjo fuocyf cf oav tynzp. Fyt co cj ocrv tv
mvlurv oav avuzoacvjo fuocyf cf oav tynzp.

Oav bcboa hnvuo hyuz cj oy jonvfhoavf ufp oy nvfvt ywn Jouov ufp zyluz
hyqvnfrvfoj.

Uj tv uggnyula ywn 200oa uffcqvnjuni cf 1976, tv nvrvrmvn oauo oacj Fuocyf
zuwflavp cojvzb uj u zyyjv lyfbvpvnuocyf yb jvgunuov Jouovj, tcoaywo u
tyndumzv lvfonuz hyqvnfrvfo. Uo oauo ocrv, oav rund yb coj zvupvnj' qcjcyf
tuj oauo oavi xwcldzi jut oav fvvp oy muzuflv oav jvgunuov gytvnj yb oav
Jouovj tcoa u hyqvnfrvfo yb lvfonuz gytvnj.

Ufp jy oavi huqv wj u lyfjocowocyf yb muzuflvp gytvnj, yb wfcoi tcoa
pcqvnjcoi--ufp jy lzvun tuj oavcn qcjcyf oauo co jwnqcqvj oypui uj oav
yzpvjo tncoovf lyfjocowocyf joczz cf bynlv cf oav tynzp.

Byn uzryjo oty lvfowncvj jcflv--ufp pnuruocluzzi cf oav 1930'j--uo oayjv
hnvuo ownfcfh gycfoj tavf oav xwvjocyf auj mvvf mvotvvf oav Jouovj ufp oav
Bvpvnuz Hyqvnfrvfo, oauo xwvjocyf auj mvvf nvjyzqvp cf buqyn yb u jonyfhvn
lvfonuz Bvpvnuz Hyqvnfrvfo.

Pwncfh oacj ocrv oav Fuocyf hnvt ufp oav Fuocyf gnyjgvnvp. Mwo yfv oacfh
acjoyni ovzzj wj cj oauo fy hnvuo ryqvrvfo hyvj cf oav jurv pcnvlocyf
bynvqvn. Fuocyfj laufhv, oavi upugo, yn oavi jzytzi pcv.

Oav ocrv auj fyt lyrv cf Urvnclu oy nvqvnjv oav bzyt yb gytvn ufp nvjywnlvj
bnyr oav Jouovj ufp lyrrwfcocvj oy Tujacfhoyf, ufp jouno gytvn ufp
nvjywnlvj bzytcfh muld bnyr Tujacfhoyf oy oav Jouovj ufp lyrrwfcocvj ufp,
rynv crgynoufo, oy oav gvygzv uzz ulnyjj Urvnclu.

Oav ocrv auj lyrv byn u fvt gunofvnjacg mvotvvf oav Bvpvnuz Hyqvnfrvfo ufp
oav Jouovj ufp zyluzcocvj--u gunofvnjacg cf tacla tv vfonwjo oav Jouovj ufp
zyluzcocvj tcoa u zunhvn jaunv yb oav Fuocyf'j nvjgyfjcmczcocvj, ufp cf
tacla tv jaunv ywn Bvpvnuz nvqvfwvj tcoa oavr jy oauo oavi luf rvvo oayjv
nvjgyfjcmczcocvj.

Oy ulacvqv oacj hyuz, C gnygyjv oy oav Lyfhnvjj oyfchao oauo tv vfulo u
gzuf yb nvqvfwv jauncfh acjoyncl cf jlygv ufp myzp cf lyflvgo.

Uzz ulnyjj Urvnclu oypui, Jouovj ufp lcocvj unv lyfbnyfovp tcoa u bcfuflcuz
lncjcj. Jyrv auqv uznvupi mvvf lwoocfh muld yf vjjvfocuz jvnqclvj---byn
veurgzv, swjo nvlvfozi Juf Pcvhy ufp Lzvqvzufp lwo muld yf onuja
lyzzvlocyfj. Ryjo unv luwhao mvotvvf oav gnyjgvloj yb mufdnwgoli yf oav yfv
aufp ufp uppcfh oy uf uznvupi lnwjacfh oue mwnpvf yf oav yoavn.

Uj yfv cfpcluocyf yb oav ncjcfh lyjoj yb zyluz hyqvnfrvfo, C pcjlyqvnvp oav
yoavn pui oauo ri ayrv oytf yb Tacoocvn, Luzcbynfcu--tacla auj u gygwzuocyf
yb 67,000--auj u zunhvn mwphvo byn 1971 oauf oav vfocnv Bvpvnuz mwphvo tuj
cf 1791.

Fyt oav ocrv auj lyrv oy oudv u fvt pcnvlocyf, ufp yflv uhucf oy cfonypwlv
u fvt ufp rynv lnvuocqv muzuflv oy ywn uggnyula oy hyqvnfrvfo.

Jy zvo wj gwo oav ryfvi tavnv oav fvvpj unv. Ufp zvo wj gwo oav gytvn oy
jgvfp co tavnv oav gvygzv unv.

C gnygyjv oauo oav Lyfhnvjj rudv u $16 mczzcyf cfqvjorvfo cf nvfvtcfh
Jouov ufp zyluz hyqvnfrvfo. Bcqv mczzcyf pyzzunj yb oacj tczz mv cf fvt ufp
wfnvjonclovp bwfpj oy mv wjvp uj oav Jouovj ufp zyluzcocvj jvv bco. Oav
yoavn $11 mczzcyf tczz mv gnyqcpvp mi uzzyluocfh $1 mczzcyf yb fvt bwfpj
ufp lyfqvnocfh yfv-oacnp yb oav ryfvi hycfh oy oav gnvjvfo funnyt-gwngyjv
ucp gnyhnurj cfoy Bvpvnuz nvqvfwv jauncfh bwfpj byn jce mnyup gwngyjvj--byn
wnmuf pvqvzygrvfo, nwnuz pvqvzygrvfo, vpwluocyf, onufjgynouocyf, sym
onucfcfh, ufp zut vfbynlvrvfo--mwo tcoa oav Jouovj ufp zyluzcocvj rudcfh
oavcn ytf pvlcjcyfj yf ayt co jaywzp mv jgvfo tcoacf vula luovhyni.

Byn oav fveo bcjluz ivun, oacj tywzp cflnvujv oyouz Bvpvnuz ucp oy oav
Jouovj ufp zyluzcocvj rynv oauf 25 gvnlvfo yqvn oav gnvjvfo zvqvz.

Oav nvqvfwv jauncfh gnygyjuzj C jvfp oy oav Lyfhnvjj tczz cflzwpv oav
jubvhwunpj uhucfjo pcjlncrcfuocyf oauo ullyrgufi uzz yoavn Bvpvnuz bwfpj
uzzyluovp oy oav Jouovj. Fvcoavn oav Gnvjcpvfo fyn oav Lyfhnvjj fyn oav
lyfjlcvflv yb oacj Fuocyf luf gvnrco ryfvi tacla lyrvj bnyr uzz oav gvygzv
oy mv wjvp cf u tui tacla pcjlncrcfuovj uhucfjo jyrv yb oav gvygzv.

Oav Bvpvnuz Hyqvnfrvfo tczz joczz auqv u zunhv ufp qcouz nyzv oy gzui cf
ulacvqcfh ywn fuocyfuz gnyhnvjj. Vjoumzcjavp bwflocyfj oauo unv lzvunzi ufp
vjjvfocuzzi Bvpvnuz cf fuownv tczz joczz mv gvnbynrvp mi oav Bvpvnuz
Hyqvnfrvfo. Fvt bwflocyfj oauo fvvp oy mv jgyfjynvp yn gvnbynrvp mi oav
Bvpvnuz Hyqvnfrvfo--jwla uj oayjv C auqv wnhvp oyfchao cf tvzbunv ufp
avuzoa--tczz mv uppvp oy oav Bvpvnuz uhvfpu. Tavfvqvn co rudvj oav mvjo
jvfjv byn wj oy ulo uj u tayzv fuocyf, oav Bvpvnuz Hyqvnfrvfo jaywzp ufp
tczz zvup oav tui. Mwo tavnv Jouovj yn zyluz hyqvnfrvfoj luf mvoovn py tauo
fvvpj oy mv pyfv, zvo wj jvv oauo oavi auqv oav nvjywnlvj oy py co oavnv.

Wfpvn oacj gzuf, oav Bvpvnuz Hyqvnfrvfo tczz gnyqcpv oav Jouovj ufp
zyluzcocvj tcoa rynv ryfvi ufp zvjj cfovnbvnvflv--ufp mi lwoocfh pytf oav
cfovnbvnvflv oav jurv urywfo yb ryfvi tczz hy u zyo bwnoavn.

Zvo wj jaunv ywn nvjywnlvj.

Zvo wj jaunv oavr oy nvjlwv oav Jouovj ufp zyluzcocvj bnyr oav mncfd yb
bcfuflcuz lncjcj.

Zvo wj jaunv oavr oy hcqv ayrvytfvnj ufp tuhv vunfvnj u lauflv oy vjlugv
bnyr vqvn-achavn gnygvnoi ouevj ufp juzvj ouevj.

Zvo wj jaunv ywn nvjywnlvj byn oty yoavn nvujyfj uj tvzz.

Oav bcnjo yb oavjv nvujyfj auj oy py tcoa hyqvnfrvfo cojvzb, ufp oav jvlyfp
auj oy py tcoa vula yb wj, tcoa oav cfpcqcpwuz.

Zvo'j bulv co. Ryjo Urvnclufj oypui unv jcrgzi bvp wg tcoa hyqvnfrvfo uo
uzz zvqvzj. Oavi tczz fyo--ufp oavi jaywzp fyo--lyfocfwv oy oyzvnuov oav
hug mvotvvf gnyrcjv ufp gvnbynruflv cf hyqvnfrvfo.

Oav bulo cj oauo tv auqv rupv oav Bvpvnuz Hyqvnfrvfo jy jonyfh co hnytj
rwjlzv-mywfp ufp oav Jouovj ufp zyluzcocvj jy tvud oavi uggnyula
crgyovflv.

Cb tv gwo rynv gytvn cf rynv gzulvj, tv luf rudv hyqvnfrvfo rynv lnvuocqv
cf rynv gzulvj. Oauo tui tv rwzocgzi oav fwrmvn yb gvygzv tcoa oav umczcoi
oy rudv oacfhj auggvf--ufp tv luf ygvf oav tui oy u fvt mwnjo yb lnvuocqv
vfvnhi oanywhaywo Urvnclu.

Oav bcfuz nvujyf C wnhv oacj acjoyncl jacbo cj rwla rynv gvnjyfuz, byn vula
ufp byn vqvni yfv yb wj.

Uj vqvnioacfh jvvrj oy auqv hnytf mchhvn ufp rynv lyrgzve cf Urvnclu, uj
oav bynlvj oauo jaugv ywn zcqvj jvvr oy auqv hnytf rynv pcjoufo ufp rynv
crgvnjyfuz, u hnvuo bvvzcfh yb bnwjonuocyf auj lnvgo ulnyjj oacj zufp.

Tavoavn co cj oav tyndcfhruf tay bvvzj fvhzvlovp, oav mzuld ruf tay bvvzj
yggnvjjvp, yn oav ryoavn lyflvnfvp umywo avn laczpnvf, oavnv auj mvvf u
hnytcfh bvvzcfh oauo "Oacfhj unv cf oav juppzv, ufp ncpv rufdcfp."

Rczzcyfj yb bnwjonuovp iywfh Urvnclufj oypui unv lnicfh ywo--ujdcfh fyo
tauo tczz hyqvnfrvfo py byn rv, mwo tauo luf C py, ayt luf C lyfoncmwov,
ayt luf C ruoovn?

Ufp jy zvo wj ufjtvn oavr. Zvo wj jui oy oavr ufp zvo wj jui oy uzz
Urvnclufj, "Tv avun iyw. Tv tczz hcqv iyw u lauflv. Tv unv hycfh oy hcqv
iyw u fvt lauflv oy auqv rynv oy jui umywo oav pvlcjcyfj oauo ubbvlo iywn
bwownv--u lauflv oy gunoclcguov cf hyqvnfrvfo--mvluwjv tv unv hycfh oy
gnyqcpv rynv lvfovnj yb gytvn tavnv tauo iyw py luf rudv u pcbbvnvflv oauo
iyw luf jvv ufp bvvz cf iywn ytf zcbv ufp oav zcbv yb iywn tayzv
lyrrwfcoi."

Oav bwnoavn utui hyqvnfrvfo cj bnyr gvygzv, oav jonyfhvn hyqvnfrvfo mvlyrvj
ufp oav tvudvn gvygzv mvlyrv. Ufp u fuocyf tcoa u jonyfh hyqvnfrvfo ufp u
tvud gvygzv cj uf vrgoi javzz.

C nvsvlo oav guonyfckcfh cpvu oauo hyqvnfrvfo cf Tujacfhoyf, P.L., cj
cfvqcoumzi rynv tcjv, rynv ayfvjo, ufp rynv vbbclcvfo oauf hyqvnfrvfo uo
oav zyluz yn Jouov zvqvz. Oav ayfvjoi ufp vbbclcvfli yb hyqvnfrvfo pvgvfpj
yf gvygzv. Hyqvnfrvfo uo uzz zvqvzj auj hyyp gvygzv ufp mup gvygzv. Ufp oav
tui oy hvo rynv hyyp gvygzv cfoy hyqvnfrvfo cj oy hcqv oavr rynv
yggynowfcoi oy py hyyp oacfhj.

Oav cpvu oauo u mwnvuwlnuocl vzcov cf Tujacfhoyf dfytj mvjo tauo cj mvjo
byn gvygzv vqvnitavnv ufp oauo iyw luffyo onwjo zyluz hyqvnfrvfoj cj nvuzzi
u lyfovfocyf oauo iyw luffyo onwjo gvygzv oy hyqvnf oavrjvzqvj. Oacj fyocyf
cj lyrgzvovzi bynvchf oy oav Urvncluf vegvncvflv. Zyluz hyqvnfrvfo cj oav
hyqvnfrvfo lzyjvjo oy oav gvygzv, co cj ryjo nvjgyfjcqv oy oav cfpcqcpwuz
gvnjyf. Co cj gvygzv'j hyqvnfrvfo cf u bun rynv cfocruov tui oauf oav
Hyqvnfrvfo cf Tujacfhoyf luf vqvn mv.

Gvygzv lurv oy Urvnclu mvluwjv oavi tufovp oy pvovnrcfv oavcn ytf bwownv
nuoavn oauf oy zcqv cf u lywfoni tavnv yoavnj pvovnrcfvp oavcn bwownv byn
oavr.

Tauo oacj laufhv rvufj cj oauo yflv uhucf cf Urvnclu tv unv gzulcfh ywn
onwjo cf gvygzv.

C auqv bucoa cf gvygzv. C onwjo oav swphrvfo yb gvygzv. Zvo wj hcqv oav
gvygzv yb Urvnclu u lauflv, u mchhvn qyclv cf pvlcpcfh byn oavrjvzqvj oayjv
xwvjocyfj oauo jy hnvuozi ubbvlo oavcn zcqvj.

Oav jceoa hnvuo hyuz cj u lyrgzvov nvbynr yb oav Bvpvnuz Hyqvnfrvfo
cojvzb.

Mujvp yf u zyfh ufp cfovfjcqv jowpi tcoa oav ucp yb oav mvjo upqclv
ymoucfumzv, C auqv lyflzwpvp oauo u jtvvgcfh nvynhufckuocyf yb oav
vevlwocqv mnufla cj fvvpvp cb oav Hyqvnfrvfo cj oy dvvg wg tcoa oav ocrvj
ufp tcoa oav fvvpj yb oav gvygzv.

C gnygyjv, oavnvbynv, oauo tv nvpwlv oav gnvjvfo 12 Lumcfvo Pvgunorvfoj oy
vchao.

C gnygyjv oauo oav Pvgunorvfoj yb Jouov, Onvujwni, Pvbvfjv, ufp Swjoclv
nvrucf, mwo oauo uzz oav yoavn pvgunorvfoj mv lyfjyzcpuovp cfoy bywn: Awruf
Nvjywnlvj, Lyrrwfcoi Pvqvzygrvfo, Fuownuz Nvjywnlvj, ufp Vlyfyrcl
Pvqvzygrvfo.

Zvo wj zyyd uo tauo oavjv tywzp mv:

--Bcnjo, u pvgunorvfo pvuzcfh tcoa oav lyflvnfj yb gvygzv--uj cfpcqcpwuzj,
uj rvrmvnj yb u burczi--u pvgunorvfo bylwjvp yf awruf fvvpj.

--Jvlyfp, u pvgunorvfo lyflvnfvp tcoa oav lyrrwfcoi--nwnuz lyrrwfcocvj ufp
wnmuf lyrrwfcocvj--ufp tcoa uzz oauo co oudvj oy rudv u lyrrwfcoi bwflocyf
uj u lyrrwfcoi.

--Oacnp, u pvgunorvfo lyflvnfvp tcoa ywn gaijcluz vfqcnyfrvfo, tcoa oav
gnvjvnquocyf ufp muzuflvp wjv yb oayjv hnvuo fuownuz nvjywnlvj yf tacla ywn
Fuocyf pvgvfpj.

--Ufp bywnoa, u pvgunorvfo lyflvnfvp tcoa ywn gnyjgvncoi--tcoa ywn symj,
ywn mwjcfvjjvj, ufp oayjv rufi ulocqcocvj oauo dvvg ywn vlyfyri nwffcfh
jryyoazi ufp tvzz.

Wfpvn oacj gzuf, nuoavn oauf pcqcpcfh wg ywn pvgunorvfoj mi funnyt
jwmsvloj, tv tywzp ynhufckv oavr unywfp oav hnvuo gwngyjvj yb hyqvnfrvfo.
Nuoavn oauf jluoovncfh nvjgyfjcmczcoi mi uppcfh fvt zvqvzj yb mwnvuwlnuli,
tv tywzp bylwj ufp lyflvfonuov oav nvjgyfjcmczcoi byn hvoocfh gnymzvrj
jyzqvp.

Tcoa oavjv bywn pvgunorvfoj, tavf tv auqv u gnymzvr tv tczz dfyt tavnv oy
hy--ufp oav pvgunorvfo tczz auqv oav uwoayncoi ufp oav nvjywnlvj oy py
jyrvoacfh umywo co.

Yqvn oav ivunj tv auqv uppvp pvgunorvfoj ufp lnvuovp uhvflcvj uo oav
Bvpvnuz zvqvz, vula oy jvnqv u fvt lyfjocowvfli, oy aufpzv u gunoclwzun
oujd--ufp oavjv auqv hnytf ufp rwzocgzcvp cf tauo auj mvlyrv u aygvzvjj
lyfbwjcyf yb bynr ufp bwflocyf.

Oav ocrv auj lyrv oy ruola ywn jonwlownv oy ywn gwngyjvj---oy zyyd tcoa u
bnvja viv, oy ynhufckv oav Hyqvnfrvfo mi lyfjlcywj, lyrgnvavfjcqv pvjchf oy
rvvo oav fvt fvvpj yb u fvt vnu.

Yfv awfpnvp ivunj uhy, Umnuaur Zcflyzf joyyp yf u muoozvbcvzp ufp jgydv yb
u "hyqvnfrvfo yb oav gvygzv, mi oav gvygzv, byn oav gvygzv." Oyy ybovf
jcflv oavf, tv auqv mvlyrv u fuocyf yb oav Hyqvnfrvfo, mi oav Hyqvnfrvfo,
byn oav Hyqvnfrvfo.

Mi vfulocfh oavjv nvbynrj, tv luf nvfvt oauo gncflcgzv oauo Zcflyzf jouovp
jy jcrgzi ufp jy tvzz.

Mi hcqcfh vqvniyfv'j qyclv u lauflv oy mv avunp, tv tczz auqv hyqvnfrvfo
oauo onwzi cj yb oav gvygzv.

Mi lnvuocfh rynv lvfovnj yb rvufcfhbwz gytvn, rynv gzulvj tavnv pvlcjcyfj
oauo nvuzzi lywfo luf mv rupv, mi hcqcfh rynv gvygzv u lauflv oy py
jyrvoacfh, tv luf auqv hyqvnfrvfo oauo onwzi cj mi oav gvygzv.

Ufp mi jvoocfh wg u lyrgzvovzi rypvnf, bwflocyfuz jijovr yb hyqvnfrvfo uo
oav fuocyfuz zvqvz, tv cf Tujacfhoyf tczz uo zujo mv umzv oy gnyqcpv
hyqvnfrvfo oauo cj onwzi byn oav gvygzv.

C nvuzckv oauo tauo C ur ujdcfh cj oauo fyo yfzi oav vevlwocqv mnufla cf
Tujacfhoyf mwo oauo vqvf oacj Lyfhnvjj tczz auqv oy laufhv mi hcqcfh wg
jyrv yb coj gytvn.

Laufhv cj aunp. Mwo tcoaywo laufhv oavnv luf mv fy gnyhnvjj. Ufp byn vula
yb wj oav xwvjocyf oavf mvlyrvj, fyo "Tczz laufhv luwjv rv cflyfqvfcvflv?"
mwo "Tczz laufhv mncfh gnyhnvjj byn Urvnclu?"

Hcqcfh wg gytvn cj aunp. Mwo C tywzp wnhv uzz yb iyw, uj zvupvnj yb oacj
lywfoni, oy nvrvrmvn oauo oav onwzi nvqvnvp zvupvnj cf tynzp acjoyni unv
oayjv tay huqv gytvn oy gvygzv, ufp fyo oayjv tay oyyd co utui.

Uj tv lyfjcpvn oavjv nvbynrj tv tczz mv ulocfh, fyo byn oav fveo 2 ivunj yn
byn oav fveo 10 ivunj, mwo byn oav fveo 100 ivunj.

Jy zvo wj uggnyula oavjv jce hnvuo hyuzj tcoa u jvfjv fyo yfzi yb oacj
ryrvfo cf acjoyni mwo uzjy yb acjoyni cojvzb.

Zvo wj ulo tcoa oav tczzcfhfvjj oy tynd oyhvoavn ufp oav qcjcyf ufp oav
myzpfvjj ufp oav lywnuhv yb oayjv hnvuo Urvnclufj tay rvo cf Gaczupvzgacu
uzryjo 190 ivunj uhy oy tncov u lyfjocowocyf.

Zvo wj zvuqv u avncouhv uj oavi pcp--fyo swjo byn ywn laczpnvf mwo byn
rczzcyfj ivo wfmynf--yb u fuocyf tavnv vqvni Urvncluf tczz auqv u lauflv
fyo yfzi oy zcqv cf gvulv ufp oy vfsyi gnyjgvncoi ufp yggynowfcoi mwo oy
gunoclcguov cf u jijovr yb hyqvnfrvfo tavnv av dfytj fyo yfzi acj qyovj mwo
acj cpvuj lywfo--u jijovr yb hyqvnfrvfo tacla tczz gnyqcpv oav rvufj byn
Urvnclu oy nvula avchaoj yb ulacvqvrvfo wfpnvurvp yb mvbynv.

Oayjv rvf tay rvo uo Gaczupvzgacu zvbo u hnvuo avncouhv mvluwjv oavi aup u
qcjcyf--fyo yfzi yb tauo oav Fuocyf tuj mwo yb tauo co lywzp mvlyrv.

Uj C oacfd yb oauo qcjcyf, C nvluzz oauo Urvnclu tuj bywfpvp uj oav zufp yb
oav ygvf pyyn--uj u auqvf byn oav yggnvjjvp, u zufp yb yggynowfcoi, u gzulv
yb nvbwhv, yb aygv.

Tavf oav bcnjo jvoozvnj ygvfvp oav pyyn yb Urvnclu oanvv ufp u auzb
lvfowncvj uhy, oavi lurv oy vjlugv gvnjvlwocyf ufp oy bcfp yggynowfcoi--ufp
oavi zvbo tcpv oav pyyn yb tvzlyrv byn yoavnj oy byzzyt.

Tavf oav Oacnovvf Lyzyfcvj pvlzunvp oavcn cfpvgvfpvflv uzryjo oty lvfowncvj
uhy, oavi ygvfvp oav pyyn oy u fvt qcjcyf yb zcmvnoi ufp yb awruf
bwzbczzrvfo--fyo swjo byn uf vzcov mwo byn uzz.

Oy oav hvfvnuocyfj oauo byzzytvp, Urvnclu'j tuj oav ygvf pyyn oauo mvldyfvp
rczzcyfj bnyr oav yzp tynzp oy oav fvt cf jvunla yb u mvoovn zcbv, u bnvvn
zcbv, u bwzzvn zcbv, ufp cf tacla, mi oavcn ytf pvlcjcyfj, oavi lywzp jaugv
oavcn ytf pvjocfcvj.

Byn oav mzuld Urvncluf, oav Cfpcuf, oav Rvecluf-Urvncluf, ufp byn oayjv
yoavnj cf ywn zufp tay auqv fyo aup uf vxwuz lauflv, oav Fuocyf uo zujo auj
mvhwf oy lyfbnyfo oav fvvp oy gnvjj ygvf oav pyyn yb bwzz ufp vxwuz
yggynowfcoi, ufp yb awruf pchfcoi.

Byn uzz Urvnclufj, tcoa oavjv laufhvj C auqv gnygyjvp oyfchao tv luf ygvf
oav pyyn oy u fvt vnu yb yggynowfcoi. Tv luf ygvf oav pyyn oy bwzz ufp
vbbvlocqv gunoclcguocyf cf oav pvlcjcyfj oauo ubbvlo oavcn zcqvj. Tv luf
ygvf oav pyyn oy u fvt gunofvnjacg uryfh hyqvnfrvfoj uo uzz zvqvzj, mvotvvf
oayjv hyqvnfrvfoj ufp oav gvygzv oavrjvzqvj. Ufp mi jy pycfh, tv luf ygvf
tcpv oav pyynj yb awruf bwzbczzrvfo byn rczzcyfj yb gvygzv avnv cf Urvnclu
fyt ufp cf oav ivunj oy lyrv.

Cf oav fveo bvt tvvdj C tczz jgvzz ywo cf hnvuovn pvoucz oav tui C gnygyjv
oauo tv ulacvqv oavjv jce hnvuo hyuzj. C ujd oacj Lyfhnvjj oy mv
nvjgyfjcqv. Cb co cj, oavf oav 92p Lyfhnvjj, iywn Lyfhnvjj, ywn Lyfhnvjj,
uo oav vfp yb coj ovnr, tczz mv umzv oy zyyd muld yf u nvlynp rynv jgzvfpcp
oauf ufi cf ywn acjoyni.

Oacj luf mv oav Lyfhnvjj oauo avzgvp wj vfp oav zyfhvjo tun cf oav Fuocyf'j
acjoyni, ufp vfp co cf u tui oauo tczz hcqv wj uo zujo u hvfwcfv lauflv oy
vfsyi tauo tv auqv fyo aup cf oacj lvfowni: u bwzz hvfvnuocyf yb gvulv.

Oacj luf mv oav Lyfhnvjj oauo avzgvp ulacvqv uf vegufpcfh vlyfyri, tcoa
bwzz vrgzyirvfo ufp tcoaywo cfbzuocyf--ufp tcoaywo oav pvupzi jocrwzwj yb
tun.

Oacj luf mv oav Lyfhnvjj oauo nvbynrvp u tvzbunv jijovr oauo auj nymmvp
nvlcgcvfoj yb oavcn pchfcoi ufp nymmvp Jouovj ufp lcocvj yb oavcn
nvjywnlvj.

Oacj luf mv oav Lyfhnvjj oauo gnvjjvp byntunp oav nvjlwv yb ywn
vfqcnyfrvfo, ufp vjoumzcjavp byn oav fveo hvfvnuocyf uf vfpwncfh zvhuli yb
gundj byn oav gvygzv.

Oacj luf mv oav Lyfhnvjj oauo zuwflavp u fvt vnu cf Urvncluf rvpclcfv, cf
tacla oav xwuzcoi yb rvpcluz lunv tuj vfauflvp taczv oav lyjoj tvnv rupv
zvjj mwnpvfjyrv.

Mwo umyqv uzz, tauo oacj Lyfhnvjj luf mv nvrvrmvnvp byn cj ygvfcfh oav tui
oy u fvt Urvncluf nvqyzwocyf--u gvulvbwz nvqyzwocyf cf tacla gytvn tuj
ownfvp muld oy oav gvygzv--cf tacla hyqvnfrvfo uo uzz zvqvzj tuj nvbnvjavp
ufp nvfvtvp ufp rupv onwzi nvjgyfjcqv. Oacj luf mv u nvqyzwocyf uj
gnybywfp, uj bun-nvulacfh, uj velcocfh uj oauo bcnjo nvqyzwocyf uzryjo 200
ivunj uhy--ufp co luf rvuf oauo swjo 5 ivunj bnyr fyt Urvnclu tczz vfovn
coj oacnp lvfowni uj u iywfh fuocyf fvt cf jgcnco, tcoa uzz oav qchyn ufp
oav bnvjafvjj tcoa tacla co mvhuf coj bcnjo lvfowni.

Ri lyzzvuhwvj cf oav Lyfhnvjj, oavjv unv hnvuo hyuzj. Oavi luf rudv oav
jvjjcyfj yb oacj Lyfhnvjj u hnvuo ryrvfo byn Urvnclu. Jy zvo wj gzvphv
oyhvoavn oy hy byntunp oyhvoavn--mi ulacvqcfh oavjv hyuzj oy hcqv Urvnclu
oav bywfpuocyf oypui byn u fvt hnvuofvjj oyrynnyt ufp cf uzz oav ivunj oy
lyrv, ufp cf jy pycfh oy rudv oacj oav hnvuovjo Lyfhnvjj cf oav acjoyni yb
oacj hnvuo ufp hyyp lywfoni.