Ij. Yhadvaj, Ij. Hjaybzatu, ik oelladwray bt uca Oetwjayy, erj
zbyubtwrbycaz wrayuy dtz ik sallen Diajbodty:

Ue dzzjayy d qebtu yayybet es uca Oetwjayy bt ucby wjadu Ocdixaj bt ncboc B
ndy etoa hjbgblawaz ue yajga by dt cetej sej ncboc B di zaahlk wjduasrl.

Uca Yudua es uca Rtbet Dzzjayy by ujdzbubetdllk dt eoodybet sej d latwuck
dtz zaudblaz dooertu xk uca Hjaybzatu es ncdu ca cdy dooeihlbycaz bt uca
hdyu, ncdu ca ndtuy uca Oetwjayy ue ze bt uca srurja, dtz, bt dt alaoubet
kadj, ue ldk uca xdyby sej uca helbubodl byyray ncboc ibwcu xa zaobybga bt
uca sdll.

Eoodybetdllk ucaja oeiay d ubia ncat hjesertz dtz sdj-jadocbtw agatuy
oeiidtz d xjadv nbuc ujdzbubet. Ucby by yroc d ubia.

B ydk ucby teu etlk xaodrya 1970 idjvy uca xawbttbtw es d tan zaodza bt
ncboc Diajbod nbll oalaxjdua buy 200uc xbjuczdk. B ydk bu xaodrya tan
vtenlazwa dtz cdjz aphajbatoa djwra hajyrdybgalk ucdu xeuc erj hjewjdiy dtz
erj btyuburubety bt Diajbod taaz ue xa jasejiaz.

Uca ieiatu cdy djjbgaz ue cdjtayy uca gdyu atajwbay dtz dxrtzdtoa es ucby
ldtz ue uca ojadubet es d tan Diajbodt aphajbatoa, dt aphajbatoa jbocaj dtz
zaahaj dtz ieja ujrlk d jaslaoubet es uca weeztayy dtz wjdoa es uca cridt
yhbjbu.

Uca yagatubay nbll xa d ubia es tan xawbttbtwy, d ubia es aphlejbtw xeuc et
uca adjuc dtz bt uca cadgaty, d ubia es zbyoegajk. Xru uca ubia cdy dlye
oeia sej aihcdyby et zagalehbtw xauuaj ndky es idtdwbtw ncdu na cdga dtz es
oeihlaubtw ncdu idt'y watbry cdy xawrt xru lasu rtsbtbycaz.

Erj ldtz, ucby ldtz ucdu by erjy uewaucaj, by d wjadu dtz d weez ldtz. Bu
by dlye dt rtsbtbycaz ldtz, dtz uca ocdllatwa es hajsaoubtw bu by uca
yriiety es uca yagatubay.

Bu by bt ucdu yhbjbu ucdu B dzzjayy ikyals ue uceya wjadu byyray sdobtw erj
Tdubet ncboc dja dxega hdjubydtycbh.

Ncat na yhadv es Diajbod'y hjbejbubay uca sbjyu hjbejbuk iryu dlndky xa
hadoa sej Diajbod dtz uca nejlz.

Uca idqej biiazbdua wedl es erj sejabwt helbok by ue xjbtw dt atz ue uca
ndj bt Gbautdi bt d ndk ucdu erj watajdubet nbll xa jaiaixajaz teu ye iroc
dy uca watajdubet ucdu yrssajaz bt ndj, xru ieja sej uca sdou ucdu na cdz
uca oerjdwa dtz ocdjdouaj ue nbt uca vbtz es d qryu hadoa ucdu uca tapu
watajdubet ndy dxla ue vaah.

Na dja idvbtw hjewjayy uendjz ucdu wedl.

Uca hjeyhaouy sej hadoa dja sdj wjaduaj uezdk ucdt ucak naja d kadj dwe.

D idqej hdju es uca ojazbu sej ucby zagalehiatu weay ue uca Iaixajy es ucby
Oetwjayy nce, zayhbua ucabj zbssajatoay et uca oetzrou es uca ndj, cdga
egajncalibtwlk btzboduaz ucabj yrhheju es d qryu hadoa. Xk ucby doubet, ker
cdga oeihlaualk zaielbycaz uca ataik'y cehay ucdu ucak odt wdbt bt
Ndycbtwuet uca gbouejk erj sbwcubtw iat cdga zatbaz ucai bt Gbautdi.

Te wedl oerlz xa wjaduaj ucdt ue idva uca tapu watajdubet uca sbjyu bt ucby
oaturjk bt ncboc Diajbod ndy du hadoa nbuc agajk tdubet bt uca nejlz.

B ycdll zbyoryy bt zaudbl uca tan oetoahuy dtz hjewjdiy zaybwtaz ue docbaga
ucby wedl bt d yahdjdua jaheju et sejabwt helbok, ncboc B ycdll yrxibu ue
uca Oetwjayy du d lduaj zdua.

Uezdk, lau ia zayojbxa uca zbjaoubety es erj tan helbobay.

Na cdga xdyaz erj helbobay et dt agdlrdubet es uca nejlz dy bu by, teu dy
bu ndy 25 kadjy dwe du uca oetolrybet es Nejlz Ndj BB. Idtk es uca helbobay
ncboc naja taoayydjk dtz jbwcu ucat dja exyelaua uezdk.

Ucat, xaodrya es Diajbod'y egajncalibtw iblbudjk dtz aoeteibo yujatwuc,
xaodrya es uca nadvtayy es eucaj idqej sjaa nejlz henajy dtz uca btdxblbuk
es yoejay es tanlk btzahatzatu tdubety ue zasatz, ej agat wegajt,
ucaiyalgay, Diajbod cdz ue dyyria uca idqej xrjzat sej uca zasatya es
sjaazei bt uca nejlz.

Bt une ndjy, sbjyu bt Vejad dtz ten bt Gbautdi, na srjtbycaz ieyu es uca
ietak, ieyu es uca djiy, ieyu es uca iat ue calh eucaj tdubety zasatz ucabj
sjaazei.

Uezdk uca wjadu btzryujbdl tdubety es Arjeha, dy nall dy Qdhdt, cdga
jawdbtaz ucabj aoeteibo yujatwuc; dtz uca tdubety es Ldubt Diajbod--dtz
idtk es uca tdubety nce dofrbjaz ucabj sjaazei sjei oeletbdlbyi dsuaj Nejlz
Ndj BB bt Dybd dtz Dsjbod--cdga d tan yatya es hjbza dtz zbwtbuk dtz d
zauajibtdubet ue dyyria uca jayhetybxblbuk sej ucabj ent zasatya.

Ucdu by uca xdyby es uca zeoujbta B dttertoaz du Wrdi.

Tabucaj uca zasatya tej uca zagalehiatu es eucaj tdubety odt xa apolrybgalk
ej hjbidjblk dt Diajbodt rtzajudvbtw.

Uca tdubety es adoc hdju es uca nejlz ycerlz dyyria uca hjbidjk
jayhetybxblbuk sej ucabj ent nall-xabtw; dtz ucak ucaiyalgay ycerlz
zauajibta uca uajiy es ucdu nall-xabtw.

Na ycdll xa sdbucsrl ue erj ujaduk oeiibuiatuy, xru na ycdll jazroa erj
btgelgaiatu dtz erj hjayatoa bt eucaj tdubety' dssdbjy.

Ue btybyu ucdu eucaj tdubety hldk d jela by teu d jaujadu sjei
jayhetybxblbuk; bu by d ycdjbtw es jayhetybxblbuk.

Uca jayrlu es ucby tan helbok cdy xaat teu ue nadvat erj dllbdtoay, xru ue
wbga ucai tan lbsa, tan yujatwuc, d tan yatya es oeiiet hrjheya.

Jaldubety nbuc erj Arjehadt dllbay dja etoa dwdbt yujetw dtz cadluck, xdyaz
et irurdl oetyrludubet dtz irurdl jayhetybxblbuk.

Na cdga btbubduaz d tan dhhjedoc ue Ldubt Diajbod bt ncboc na zadl nbuc
uceya tdubety dy hdjutajy jducaj ucdt hdujety.

Uca tan hdjutajycbh oetoahu cdy xaat naloeiaz bt Dybd. Na cdga zagalehaz dt
cbyuejbo tan xdyby sej Qdhdtaya-Diajbodt sjbatzycbh dtz oeehajdubet, ncboc
by uca lbtochbt sej hadoa bt uca Hdobsbo.

Bs na dja ue cdga hadoa bt uca ldyu ucbjz es uca oaturjk, d idqej sdouej
nbll xa uca zagalehiatu es d tan jaldubetycbh xaunaat uca Rtbuaz Yuduay dtz
uca Yegbau Rtbet.

B nerlz teu rtzajayubidua erj zbssajatoay, xru na dja iegbtw nbuc hjaobybet
dtz hrjheya sjei dt ajd es oetsjetudubet ue dt ajd es taweubdubet.

Erj taweubdubety et yujduawbo djiy lbibudubety dtz bt eucaj djady nbll cdga
sdj wjaduaj ocdtoa sej yrooayy bs xeuc ybzay atuaj ucai ieubgduaz xk irurdl
yals-btuajayu jducaj ucdt tdbga yatubiatudlbuk.

Bu by nbuc ucby ydia yhbjbu ucdu na cdga jayriaz zbyoryybety nbuc Oeiirtbyu
Ocbtd bt erj udlvy du Ndjydn.

Erj oetoajt bt erj jaldubety nbuc xeuc ucaya tdubety by ue dgebz d
odudyujehcbo oellbybet dtz ue xrblz d yelbz xdyby sej hadoasrl yauulaiatu
es erj zbssajatoay.

B nerlz xa uca ldyu ue yrwwayu ucdu uca jedz ue hadoa by teu zbssborlu dtz
zdtwajery, xru B xalbaga erj tan helbobay cdga oetujbxruaz ue uca hjeyhaou
ucdu Diajbod idk cdga uca xayu ocdtoa ybtoa Nejlz Ndj BB ue atqek d
watajdubet es rtbtuajjrhuaz hadoa. Dtz ucdu ocdtoa nbll xa atejierylk
btojadyaz bs na oetubtra ue cdga d jaldubetycbh xaunaat Oetwjayy dtz uca
Apaorubga bt ncboc, zayhbua zbssajatoay bt zaudbl, ncaja uca yaorjbuk es
Diajbod dtz uca hadoa es idtvbtz dja oetoajtaz, na dou teu dy Jahrxlbodty,
teu dy Zaieojduy, xru dy Diajbodty.

Dy na iega btue uca zaodza es uca yagatubay, na cdga uca wjaduayu
ehhejurtbuk sej hjewjayy du ceia es dtk haehla bt nejlz cbyuejk.

Erj wjeyy tdubetdl hjezrou nbll btojadya xk $500 xbllbet bt uca tapu 10
kadjy. Ucby btojadya dleta by wjaduaj ucdt uca atubja wjenuc es uca
Diajbodt aoeteik sjei 1790 ue 1950.

Uca ojbubodl frayubet by teu ncaucaj na nbll wjen, xru cen na nbll rya ucdu
wjenuc.

Uca zaodza es uca ybpubay ndy dlye d hajbez es wjadu wjenuc aoeteibodllk.
Xru bt ucdu ydia 10-kadj hajbez na nbutayyaz uca wjaduayu wjenuc es ojbia,
uca wjaduayu btojadya bt btsldubet, uca wjaduayu yeobdl rtjayu bt Diajbod
bt 100 kadjy. Tagaj cdy d tdubet yaaiaz ue cdga cdz ieja dtz atqekaz bu
layy.

Du cadju, uca byyra by uca assaoubgatayy es wegajtiatu.

Erjy cdy xaoeia--dy bu oetubtray ue xa, dtz ycerlz jaidbt--d yeobauk es
ldjwa aphaoudubety. Wegajtiatu calhaz ue watajdua ucaya aphaoudubety. Bu
rtzajueev ue iaau ucai. Kau, btojadybtwlk, bu hjegaz rtdxla ue ze ye.

Dy d haehla, na cdz uee idtk gbybety--dtz uee lbuula gbybet.

Ten, dy na atuaj uca yagatubay, na ycerlz atuaj dlye d wjadu dwa es jaseji
es uca btyuburubety es Diajbodt wegajtiatu.

Erj hrjheya bt ucby hajbez ycerlz teu xa ybihlk xauuaj idtdwaiatu es uca
hjewjdiy es uca hdyu. Uca ubia cdy oeia sej d tan frayu--d frayu teu sej d
wjaduaj frdtubuk es ncdu na cdga, xru sej d tan frdlbuk es lbsa bt
Diajbod.

D idqej hdju es uca yrxyudtoa sej dt rthjaoazatuaz dzgdtoa bt ucby Tdubet'y
dhhjedoc ue buy hjexlaiy dtz ehhejurtbubay by oetudbtaz bt ieja ucdt une
yoeja lawbyldubga hjeheydly ncboc B yatu ue uca Oetwjayy ldyu kadj dtz
ncboc yubll dndbu atdouiatu.

B nbll essaj du ladyu d zemat ieja idqej hjewjdiy bt uca oerjya es ucby
yayybet.

Du ucby hebtu B ze teu btuatz ue we ucjerwc d zaudblaz lbyubtw es ncdu B
cdga hjeheyaz ej nbll hjeheya, xru B nerlz lbva ue iatubet ucjaa djady bt
ncboc rjwatu hjbejbubay zaidtz ucdu na iega dtz iega ten:

Sbjyu, na odtteu zaldk letwaj bt dooeihlbycbtw d ueudl jaseji es erj
nalsdja ykyuai. Ncat d ykyuai hatdlbmay nejv, xjadvy rh ceiay, jexy
jaobhbatuy es zbwtbuk, ucaja by te dluajtdubga ue dxelbycbtw ucdu ykyuai
dtz dzehubtw bt buy hldoa uca hjewjdi es btoeia yrhheju, qex ujdbtbtw, dtz
nejv btoatubgay ncboc B jaoeiiatzaz ue uca Oetwjayy ldyu kadj.

Yaoetz, uca ubia cdy oeia ue dyyayy dtz jaseji dll es erj btyuburubety es
wegajtiatu du uca Sazajdl, Yudua, dtz leodl lagal. Bu by ubia sej d Tan
Sazajdlbyi, bt ncboc, dsuaj 190 kadjy es henaj slenbtw sjei uca haehla dtz
leodl dtz Yudua wegajtiatuy ue Ndycbtwuet, Z.O., bu nbll xawbt ue slen sjei
Ndycbtwuet xdov ue uca Yuduay dtz ue uca haehla es uca Rtbuaz Yuduay.

Ucbjz, na iryu dzehu jasejiy ncboc nbll aphdtz uca jdtwa es ehhejurtbubay
sej dll Diajbodty. Na odt srlsbll uca Diajbodt zjadi etlk ncat adoc hajyet
cdy d sdbj ocdtoa ue srlsbll cby ent zjadiy. Ucby iadty afrdl geubtw
jbwcuy, afrdl aihlekiatu ehhejurtbuk, dtz tan ehhejurtbubay sej aphdtzaz
entajycbh. Xaodrya bt ejzaj ue xa yaorja bt ucabj cridt jbwcuy, haehla taaz
dooayy ue hjehajuk jbwcuy.

B oerlz wbga ybibldj apdihlay es uca taaz sej jaseji bt erj hjewjdiy sej
cadluc, azrodubet, cerybtw, ujdtyhejudubet, dy nall dy eucaj ojbubodl djady
ncboc zbjaoulk dssaou uca nall-xabtw es ibllbety es Diajbodty.

Uca haehla es uca Rtbuaz Yuduay ycerlz ndbu te letwaj sej ucaya jasejiy
ucdu nerlz ye zaahlk atcdtoa uca frdlbuk es ucabj lbsa.

Ncat B yhadv es doubety ncboc nerlz xa xatasbobdl ue uca Diajbodt haehla, B
odt ucbtv es teta ieja bihejudtu ucdt sej uca Oetwjayy ue qebt ucby
dzibtbyujdubet bt uca xduula ue yueh uca jbya bt uca oeyu es lbgbtw.

Ten, B jadlbma bu by uaihubtw ue xldia yeiaeta alya sej btsldubet. Yeia
xldia xrybtayy sej jdbybtw hjboay. Yeia xldia rtbety sej dyvbtw sej ieja
ndway.

Xru d jagban es uca yudjv sbyodl sdouy es uca 1960'y oladjlk zaietyujduay
ncaja uca hjbidjk xldia sej jbybtw hjboay iryu xa hldoaz.

Bt uca zaodza es uca ybpubay uca Sazajdl Wegajtiatu yhatu $57 xbllbet ieja
ucdt bu ueev bt bt udpay.

Bt ucdu ydia zaodza uca Diajbodt haehla hdbz uca xbll sej ucdu zasbobu bt
hjboa btojadyay ncboc jdbyaz uca oeyu es lbgbtw sej uca dgajdwa sdiblk es
serj xk $200 haj ietuc bt Diajbod.

Ten ibllbety es Diajbodty dja sejoaz ue we btue zaxu uezdk xaodrya uca
Sazajdl Wegajtiatu zaobzaz ue we btue zaxu kayuajzdk. Na iryu xdldtoa erj
Sazajdl xrzwau ye ucdu Diajbodt sdiblbay nbll cdga d xauuaj ocdtoa ue
xdldtoa ucabj sdiblk xrzwauy.

Etlk nbuc uca oeehajdubet es uca Oetwjayy odt na iaau ucby cbwcayu hjbejbuk
exqaoubga es jayhetybxla wegajtiatu. Na dja et uca jbwcu ujdov.

Na cdz d xdldtoaz xrzwau bt 1969. Ucby dzibtbyujdubet oru ieja ucdt $7
xbllbet eru es yhatzbtw hldty bt ejzaj ue hjezroa d yrjhlry bt 1970, dtz bt
yhbua es uca sdou ucdu Oetwjayy jazroaz jagatray xk $3 xbllbet, B ycdll
jaoeiiatz d xdldtoaz xrzwau sej 1971.

Xru B odt dyyrja ker ucdu teu etlk ue hjayatu, xru ue yudk nbucbt, d
xdldtoaz xrzwau jafrbjay yeia gajk cdjz zaobybety. Bu iadty jaqaoubtw
yhatzbtw hjewjdiy ncboc nerlz xatasbu yeia es uca haehla ncat ucabj tau
assaou nerlz jayrlu bt hjboa btojadyay sej dll uca haehla.

Bu by ubia ue frbu hruubtw weez ietak btue xdz hjewjdiy. Eucajnbya, na nbll
atz rh nbuc xdz ietak dtz xdz hjewjdiy.

B jaoewtbma uca helbubodl hehrldjbuk es yhatzbtw hjewjdiy, dtz hdjuborldjlk
bt dt alaoubet kadj. Xru rtlayy na yueh uca jbya bt hjboay, uca oeyu es
lbgbtw sej ibllbety es Diajbodt sdiblbay nbll xaoeia rtxadjdxla dtz
wegajtiatu'y dxblbuk ue hldt hjewjdiy sej hjewjayy sej uca srurja nbll
xaoeia biheyybxla.

Bt jasajjbtw ue xrzwau oruy, ucaja by eta djad ncaja B cdga ejzajaz dt
btojadya jducaj ucdt d oru--dtz ucdu by uca jafrayuy es uceya dwatobay nbuc
uca jayhetybxblbubay sej ldn atsejoaiatu.

Na cdga cadjz d wjadu zadl es egajxlent jcauejbo zrjbtw uca ybpubay bt
ncboc uca nejz "ndj" cdy hajcdhy uee esuat xaat ryaz--uca ndj et hegajuk,
uca ndj et ibyajk, uca ndj et zbyadya, uca ndj et crtwaj. Xru bs ucaja by
eta djad ncaja uca nejz "ndj" by dhhjehjbdua bu by bt uca sbwcu dwdbtyu
ojbia. Na iryu zaoldja dtz nbt uca ndj dwdbtyu uca ojbibtdl alaiatuy ncboc
btojadybtwlk ucjaduat erj obubay, erj ceiay, dtz erj lbgay.

Na cdga d ujdwbo apdihla es ucby hjexlai bt uca Tdubet'y Odhbudl, sej nceya
ydsauk uca Oetwjayy dtz uca Apaorubga cdga uca hjbidjk jayhetybxblbuk. B
zerxu bs idtk Iaixajy es ucby Oetwjayy nce lbga ieja ucdt d san xleovy sjei
caja nerlz zdja ladga ucabj odjy bt uca Odhbuel wdjdwa dtz ndlv ceia dleta
uetbwcu.

Ldyu kadj ucby dzibtbyujdubet yatu ue uca Oetwjayy 13 yahdjdua hbaoay es
lawbyldubet zadlbtw nbuc ejwdtbmaz ojbia, hejtewjdhck, yujaau ojbia,
tdjoeuboy, ojbia bt uca Zbyujbou es Oelrixbd.

Teta es ucaya xblly cdy jadocaz ik zayv sej ybwtdurja.

B di oetsbzatu ucdu uca Oetwjayy nbll dou ten ue dzehu uca lawbyldubet B
hldoaz xaseja ker ldyu kadj. Na bt uca Apaorubga cdga zeta agajkucbtw na
odt rtzaj apbyubtw ldn, xru tan dtz yujetwaj nadhety dja taazaz bt ucdu
sbwcu.

Ncbla bu by ujra ucdu Yudua dtz leodl ldn atsejoaiatu dwatobay dja uca
oruubtw azwa bt uca asseju ue albibtdua yujaau ojbia, xrjwldjbay, irjzaj,
ik hjeheydly ue ker cdga aixezbaz ik xalbas ucdu uca Sazajdl Wegajtiatu
ycerlz hldk d wjaduaj jela bt nejvbtw bt hdjutajycbh nbuc ucaya dwatobay.

Ucdu by nck 1971 Sazajdl yhatzbtw sej leodl ldn atsejoaiatu nbll zerxla
ucdu xrzwauaz sej 1970.

Uca hjbidjk jayhetybxblbuk sej ojbiay ucdu dssaou btzbgbzrdly by nbuc leodl
dtz Yudua jducaj ucdt nbuc Sazajdl Wegajtiatu. Xru bt uca sbalz es
ejwdtbmaz ojbia, tdjoeuboy, hejtewjdhck, uca Sazajdl Wegajtiatu cdy d
yhaobdl jayhetybxblbuk bu ycerlz srlsbll. Dtz na ycerlz idva Ndycbtwuet,
Z.O., ncaja na cdga uca hjbidjk jayhetybxblbuk, dt apdihla ue uca Tdubet
dtz uca nejlz es jayhaou sej ldn jducaj ucdt ldnlayytayy.

B ten urjt ue d yrxqaou ncboc, tapu ue erj zaybja sej hadoa, idk nall
xaoeia uca idqej oetoajt es uca Diajbodt haehla bt uca zaodza es uca
yagatubay.

Bt uca tapu 10 kadjy na ycdll btojadya erj nadluc xk 50 hajoatu. Uca
hjesertz frayubet by: Zeay ucby iadt na nbll xa 50 hajoatu jbocaj bt d jadl
yatya, 50 hajoatu xauuaj ess, 50 hajoatu cdhhbaj?

Ej zeay bu iadt ucdu bt uca kadj 1980 uca Hjaybzatu yudtzbtw bt ucby hldoa
nbll leev xdov et d zaodza bt ncboc 70 hajoatu es erj haehla lbgaz bt
iaujehelbudt djady ocevaz xk ujdssbo, yrsseoduaz xk yiew, hebyetaz xk
nduaj, zadsataz xk tebya, dtz uajjejbmaz xk ojbia?

Ucaya dja teu uca wjadu frayubety ucdu oetoajt nejlz ladzajy du yriibu
oetsajatoay. Xru haehla ze teu lbga du uca yriibu. Ucak lbga bt uca
seeucblly es agajkzdk aphajbatoa, dtz bu by ubia sej dll es ry ue oetoajt
erjyalgay nbuc uca ndk jadl haehla lbga bt jadl lbsa.

Uca wjadu frayubet es uca yagatubay by, ycdll na yrjjatzaj ue erj
yrjjertzbtwy, ej ycdll na idva erj hadoa nbuc tdurja dtz xawbt ue idva
jahdjdubety sej uca zdidwa na cdga zeta ue erj dbj, ue erj ldtz, dtz ue erj
nduaj?

Jayuejbtw tdurja ue buy tdurjdl yudua by d odrya xaketz hdjuk dtz xaketz
sdoubety. Bu cdy xaoeia d oeiiet odrya es dll uca haehla es ucby oertujk.
Bu by d odrya es hdjuborldj oetoajt ue kertw Diajbodty, xaodrya ucak ieja
ucdt na nbll jadh uca wjbi oetyafratoay es erj sdblrja ue dou et hjewjdiy
ncboc dja taazaz ten bs na dja ue hjagatu zbydyuaj lduaj.

Oladt dbj, oladt nduaj, ehat yhdoay--ucaya ycerlz etoa dwdbt xa uca
xbjucjbwcu es agajk Diajbodt. Bs na dou ten, ucak odt xa.

Na yubll ucbtv es dbj dy sjaa. Xru oladt dbj by teu sjaa, dtz tabucaj by
oladt nduaj. Uca hjboa udw et hellrubet oetujel by cbwc. Ucjerwc erj kadjy
es hdyu odjalayytayy na btorjjaz d zaxu ue tdurja, dtz ten ucdu zaxu by
xabtw odllaz.

Uca hjewjdi B ycdll hjeheya ue Oetwjayy nbll xa uca ieyu oeihjacatybga dtz
oeyulk hjewjdi bt ucby sbalz bt Diajbod'y cbyuejk.

Bu by teu d hjewjdi sej qryu eta kadj. D kadj'y hldt bt ucby sbalz by te
hldt du dll. Ucby by d ubia ue leev dcadz teu d kadj, xru 5 kadjy ej 10
kadjy--ncduagaj ubia by jafrbjaz ue ze uca qex.

B ycdll hjeheya ue ucby Oetwjayy d $10 xbllbet tdubetnbza oladt nduajy
hjewjdi ue hru iezajt irtbobhdl ndyua ujaduiatu hldtuy bt agajk hldoa bt
Diajbod ncaja ucak dja taazaz ue idva erj nduajy oladt dwdbt, dtz ze bu
ten. Na cdga uca btzryujbdl odhdobuk, bs na xawbt ten, ue xrblz ucai dll
nbucbt 5 kadjy. Ucby hjewjdi nbll wau ucai xrblu nbucbt 5 kadjy.

Dy erj obubay dtz yrxrjxy jalatulayylk aphdtz, uceya hjboalayy ehat yhdoay
taazaz sej jaojadubet djady dooayybxla ue ucabj haehla dja yndllenaz
rh--esuat sejagaj. Rtlayy na hjayajga ucaya yhdoay ncbla ucak dja yubll
dgdbldxla, na nbll cdga teta ue hjayajga. Ucajaseja, B ycdll hjeheya tan
sbtdtobtw iaucezy sej hrjocdybtw ehat yhdoa dtz hdjvldtzy ten, xaseja ucak
dja leyu ue ry.

Uca drueiexbla by erj nejyu hellruaj es uca dbj. Dzafrdua oetujel jafrbjay
srjucaj dzgdtoay bt atwbta zaybwt dtz sral oeiheybubet. Na ycdll btuatybsk
erj jayadjoc, yau btojadybtwlk yujbou yudtzdjzy, dtz yujatwucat atsejoaiatu
hjeoazrjay--dtz na ycdll ze bu ten.

Na odt te letwaj dssejz ue oetybzaj dbj dtz nduaj oeiiet hjehajuk, sjaa ue
xa dxryaz xk dtketa nbuceru jawdjz ue uca oetyafratoay. Btyuadz, na ycerlz
xawbt ten ue ujadu ucai dy yodjoa jayerjoay, ncboc na dja te ieja sjaa ue
oetudibtdua ucdt na dja sjaa ue ucjen wdjxdwa btue erj tabwcxej'y kdjz.

Ucby jafrbjay oeihjacatybga tan jawrldubety. Bu dlye jafrbjay ucdu, ue uca
apuatu heyybxla, uca hjboa es weezy ycerlz xa idza ue btolrza uca oeyuy es
hjezrobtw dtz zbyheybtw es ucai nbuceru zdidwa ue uca atgbjetiatu.

Ten, B jadlbma ucdu uca djwriatu by esuat idza ucdu ucaja by d srtzdiatudl
oetujdzboubet xaunaat aoeteibo wjenuc dtz uca frdlbuk es lbsa, ye ucdu ue
cdga eta na iryu sejydva uca eucaj.

Uca dtynaj by teu ue dxdtzet wjenuc, xru ue jazbjaou bu. Sej apdihla, na
ycerlz urjt uendjz atzbtw oetwayubet dtz albibtdubtw yiew uca ydia
jayajgebj es btgatubga watbry ucdu ojaduaz ucai bt uca sbjyu hldoa.

Oetubtraz gbwejery aoeteibo wjenuc hjegbzay ry nbuc uca iadty ue atjboc
lbsa buyals dtz ue atcdtoa erj hldtau dy d hldoa ceyhbudxla ue idt.

Adoc btzbgbzrdl iryu atlbyu bt ucby sbwcu bs bu by ue xa net.

Bu cdy xaat ydbz ucdu te iduuaj cen idtk tdubetdl hdjvy dtz cbyuejbodl
ietriatuy na xrk dtz zagaleh, uca ujrlk ybwtbsbodtu atgbjetiatu sej adoc es
ry by ucdu bt ncboc na yhatz 80 hajoatu es erj ubia--bt erj ceiay, bt erj
hldoay es nejv, uca yujaauy egaj ncboc na ujdgal.

Yujaau lbuuaj, jrtzent hdjvbtw yujbhy dtz kdjzy, zbldhbzduaz satoay, xjevat
nbtzeny, yievbtw drueiexblay, zbtwk nejvbtw hldoay, dll ycerlz xa uca
exqaou es erj sjayc gban.

Na cdga xaat uee uelajdtu es erj yrjjertzbtwy dtz uee nbllbtw ue ladga bu
ue eucajy ue oladt rh erj atgbjetiatu. Bu by ubia sej uceya nce idva
idyybga zaidtzy et yeobauk ue idva yeia ibtbidl zaidtzy et ucaiyalgay. Adoc
es ry iryu jayelga ucdu adoc zdk ca nbll ladga cby ceia, cby hjehajuk, uca
hrxlbo hldoay es uca obuk ej uent d lbuula oladtaj, d lbuula xauuaj, d
lbuula ieja hladydtu sej cbiyals dtz uceya djertz cbi.

Nbuc uca calh es haehla na odt ze dtkucbtw, dtz nbuceru ucabj calh, na odt
ze teucbtw. Bt ucby yhbjbu, uewaucaj, na odt jaoldbi erj ldtz sej erjy dtz
watajdubety ue oeia.

Xaunaat ten dtz uca kadj 2000, egaj 100 ibllbet ocblzjat nbll xa xejt bt
uca Rtbuaz Yuduay. Ncaja ucak wjen rh--dtz cen--nbll, ieja ucdt dtk eta
ucbtw, iadyrja uca frdlbuk es Diajbodt lbsa bt ucaya kadjy dcadz.

Ucby ycerlz xa d ndjtbtw ue ry.

Sej uca hdyu 30 kadjy erj hehrldubet cdy dlye xaat wjenbtw dtz ycbsubtw.
Uca jayrlu by apaihlbsbaz bt uca gdyu djady es jrjdl Diajbod aihukbtw eru
es haehla dtz es hjeibya--d ucbjz es erj oertubay leyu hehrldubet bt uca
ybpubay.

Uca gbelatu dtz zaodkaz oatujdl obubay es erj wjadu iaujehelbudt oeihlapay
dja uca ieyu oetyhborery djad es sdblrja bt Diajbodt lbsa uezdk.

B hjeheya ucdu xaseja ucaya hjexlaiy xaoeia btyelrxla, uca Tdubet zagaleh d
tdubetdl wjenuc helbok.

Bt uca srurja, wegajtiatu zaobybety dy ue ncaja ue xrblz cbwcndky, leodua
dbjhejuy, dofrbja ldtz, ej yall ldtz ycerlz xa idza nbuc d oladj exqaoubga
es dbzbtw d xdldtoaz wjenuc sej Diajbod.

Bt hdjuborldj, uca Sazajdl Wegajtiatu iryu xa bt d heybubet ue dyybyu bt
uca xrblzbtw es tan obubay dtz uca jaxrblzbtw es elz etay.

Du uca ydia ubia, na nbll odjjk erj oetoajt nbuc uca frdlbuk es lbsa bt
Diajbod ue uca sdji dy nall dy uca yrxrjx, ue uca gblldwa dy nall dy ue uca
obuk. Ncdu jrjdl Diajbod taazy ieyu by d tan vbtz es dyybyudtoa. Bu taazy
ue xa zadlu nbuc, teu dy d yahdjdua tdubet, xru dy hdju es dt egajdll
wjenuc helbok sej Diajbod. Na iryu ojadua d tan jrjdl atgbjetiatu ncboc
nbll teu etlk yuai uca ibwjdubet ue rjxdt oatuajy, xru jagajya bu. Bs na
yabma erj wjenuc dy d ocdllatwa, na odt idva uca 1970'y dt cbyuejbo hajbez
ncat xk oetyobery oceboa na ujdtysejiaz erj ldtz btue ncdu na ndtu bu ue
xaoeia.

Diajbod, ncboc cdy hbetaajaz bt uca tan dxrtzdtoa, dtz bt uca tan
uaoctelewk, by odllaz rhet uezdk ue hbetaaj bt iaaubtw uca oetoajty ncboc
cdga sellenaz bt ucabj ndva--bt urjtbtw uca netzajy es yobatoa ue uca
yajgboa es idt.

Bt uca idqayuk es ucby wjadu Ocdixaj na cadj uca aoceay es Diajbod'y
cbyuejk, es zaxduay ucdu jeovaz uca Rtbet dtz uceya ucdu jahdbjaz bu, es
uca yriiety ue ndj dtz uca yadjoc sej hadoa, es uca rtbubtw es uca haehla,
uca xrblzbtw es d tdubet.

Uceya aoceay es cbyuejk jaibtz ry es erj jeeuy dtz erj yujatwucy.

Ucak jaibtz ry dlye es ucdu yhaobdl watbry es Diajbodt zaieojdok, ncboc du
eta ojbubodl urjtbtw hebtu dsuaj dteucaj cdy laz ry ue yheu uca tan jedz ue
uca srurja dtz wbgat ry uca nbyzei dtz uca oerjdwa ue udva bu.

Dy B leev zent ucdu tan jedz ncboc B cdga ujbaz ue idh eru uezdk, B yaa d
tan Diajbod dy na oalaxjdua erj 200uc dttbgajydjk 6 kadjy sjei ten.

B yaa dt Diajbod bt ncboc na cdga dxelbycaz crtwaj, hjegbzaz uca iadty sej
agajk sdiblk bt uca Tdubet ue exudbt d ibtbiri btoeia, idza atejiery
hjewjayy bt hjegbzbtw xauuaj cerybtw, sdyuaj ujdtyhejudubet, bihjegaz
cadluc, dtz yrhajbej azrodubet.

B yaa dt Diajbod bt ncboc na cdga ocaovaz btsldubet, dtz ndwaz d nbttbtw
ndj dwdbtyu ojbia.

B yaa dt Diajbod bt ncboc na cdga idza wjadu yujbzay bt yuehhbtw uca
hellrubet es erj dbj, oladtbtw rh erj nduaj, ehatbtw rh erj hdjvy,
oetubtrbtw ue aphleja bt yhdoa.

Ieyu bihejudtu, B yaa dt Diajbod du hadoa nbuc dll uca tdubety es uca
nejlz.

Ucby by teu dt biheyybxla zjadi. Ucaya wedly dja dll nbucbt erj jadoc.

Bt ubiay hdyu, erj sejasducajy cdz uca gbybet xru teu uca iadty ue docbaga
yroc wedly.

Lau bu teu xa jaoejzaz ucdu na naja uca sbjyu Diajbodt watajdubet ucdu cdz
uca iadty xru teu uca gbybet ue idva ucby zjadi oeia ujra.

Xru lau ry, dxega dll, jaoewtbma d srtzdiatudl ujruc. Na odt xa uca xayu
oleucaz, xayu saz, xayu ceryaz haehla bt uca nejlz, atqekbtw oladt dbj,
oladt nduaj, xadrubsrl hdjvy, xru na oerlz yubll xa uca rtcdhhbayu haehla
bt uca nejlz nbuceru dt btzasbtdxla yhbjbu--uca lbsu es d zjbgbtw zjadi
ncboc cdy idza Diajbod, sjei buy xawbttbtw, uca ceha es uca nejlz.

Une crtzjaz kadjy dwe ucby ndy d tan tdubet es 3 ibllbet haehla, nadv
iblbudjblk, heej aoeteibodllk. Xru Diajbod iadtu yeiaucbtw ue uca nejlz
ucat ncboc oerlz teu xa iadyrjaz bt zelldjy, yeiaucbtw sdj ieja bihejudtu
ucdt iblbudjk ibwcu.

Lbyuat ue Hjaybzatu Uceidy Qassajyet bt 1802: Na dou teu "sej erjyalgay
dleta, xru sej uca ncela cridt jdoa."

Na cdz d yhbjburdl frdlbuk ucat ncboc odrwcu uca bidwbtdubet es ibllbety es
haehla bt uca nejlz.

Uezdk, ncat na dja uca jbocayu dtz yujetwayu tdubet bt uca nejlz, lau bu
teu xa jaoejzaz ucdu na ldov uca iejdl dtz yhbjburdl bzadlbyi ncboc idza ry
uca ceha es uca nejlz du uca ubia es erj xbjuc.

Uca zaidtzy es ry bt 1976 dja agat wjaduaj ucdt bt 1776.

Bu by te letwaj aterwc ue lbga dtz lau lbga. Ten na iryu lbga dtz calh
lbga.

Na taaz d sjayc olbidua bt Diajbod, eta bt ncboc d hajyet odt xjaduca
sjaalk dtz xjaduca bt sjaazei.

Erj jaoewtbubet es uca ujruc ucdu nadluc dtz cdhhbtayy dja teu uca ydia
ucbtw jafrbjay ry ue iadyrja yrooayy ej sdblrja xk tan ojbuajbd.

Agat ieja ucdt uca hjewjdiy B cdga zayojbxaz uezdk, ncdu ucby Tdubet taazy
by dt apdihla sjei buy alaouaz ladzajy bt hjegbzbtw uca yhbjburdl dtz iejdl
ladzajycbh ncboc te hjewjdiy sej iduajbdl hjewjayy odt ydubysk.

Dxega dll, lau ry btyhbja kertw Diajbodty nbuc d yatya es apobuaiatu, d
yatya es zayubtk, d yatya es btgelgaiatu, bt iaaubtw uca ocdllatway na sdoa
bt ucby wjadu hajbez es erj cbyuejk. Etlk ucat dja ucak webtw ue cdga dtk
yatya es ydubysdoubet bt ucabj lbgay.

Uca wjaduayu hjbgblawa dt btzbgbzrdl odt cdga by ue yajga bt d odrya xbwwaj
ucdt cbiyals. Na cdga yroc d odrya.

Cen na yabma uca ehhejurtbubay B cdga zayojbxaz uezdk nbll zauajibta teu
etlk erj srurja, xru uca srurja es hadoa dtz sjaazei bt ucby nejlz bt uca
ldyu ucbjz es uca oaturjk.

Idk Wez wbga ry uca nbyzei, uca yujatwuc dtz, dxega dll, uca bzadlbyi ue xa
nejuck es ucdu ocdllatwa, ye ucdu Diajbod odt srlsbll buy zayubtk es xabtw
uca nejlz'y xayu ceha sej lbxajuk, sej ehhejurtbuk, sej hjewjayy dtz hadoa
sej dll haehlay.