In. Yaqthqn, In. Anqyxkqcb, iv ojuuqtwsqy xc bgq Ojcwnqyy, jsn
kxybxcwsxygqk wsqyby, iv lquujr Tiqnxotcy:

Rq iqqb gqnq bjcxwgb tb t bxiq jl wnqtb ogtuuqcwq tck wnqtb jaajnbscxbxqy
ljn Tiqnxot. Rq iqqb tb t bxiq rgqc rq ltoq wnqtb anjeuqiy tb gjiq tck
tenjtk bgtb rxuu bqyb bgq ybnqcwbg jl jsn lxeqn ty t ctbxjc. Esb rq tuyj
iqqb tb t bxiq rgqc bgtb lxeqn gty eqqc bqybqk, tck xb gty anjmqk ybnjcw.

Tiqnxot xy t wnqtb tck wjjk utck, tck rq tnq t wnqtb tck wjjk utck eqotsyq
rq tnq t ybnjcw, lnqq, onqtbxmq aqjauq tck eqotsyq Tiqnxot xy bgq yxcwuq
wnqtbqyb ljnoq ljn aqtoq tcvrgqnq xc bgq rjnuk. Bjktv, ty turtvy xc jsn
gxybjnv, rq otc etyq jsn ojclxkqcoq xc rgtb bgq Tiqnxotc aqjauq rxuu
togxqmq xc bgq lsbsnq jc bgq nqojnk jl rgtb bgq Tiqnxotc aqjauq gtmq
togxqmqk xc bgq atyb.

Bjcxwgb, ljn bgq lxnyb bxiq xc 12 vqtny, t Anqyxkqcb jl bgq Scxbqk Ybtbqy
otc nqajnb bj bgq Ojcwnqyy jc bgq ybtbq jl t Scxjc tb aqtoq rxbg qmqnv
ctbxjc jl bgq rjnuk. Eqotsyq jl bgxy, xc bgq 22,000-rjnk iqyytwq jc bgq
ybtbq jl bgq Scxjc bgtb X gtmq fsyb gtckqk bj bgq Yaqthqn jl bgq Gjsyq tck
bgq Anqyxkqcb jl bgq Yqctbq, X gtmq eqqc teuq bj kqtu anxitnxuv rxbg bgq
anjeuqiy jl aqtoq rxbg rgtb rq otc kj gqnq tb gjiq xc Tiqnxot ljn bgq
Tiqnxotc aqjauq--ntbgqn bgtc rxbg bgq anjeuqiy jl rtn.

Bgq iqtysnqy X gtmq jsbuxcqk xc bgxy iqyytwq yqb tc twqckt ljn bnsuv
yxwcxlxotcb anjwnqyy ljn bgxy Ctbxjc tck bgq rjnuk xc 1974. Eqljnq rq ogtnb
rgqnq rq tnq wjxcw, uqb sy yqq gjr ltn rq gtmq ojiq.

Xb rty 5 vqtny twj jc bgq ybqay jl bgxy Otaxbju bgtb X bjjh bgq jtbg jl
jllxoq ty vjsn Anqyxkqcb. Xc bgjyq 5 vqtny, eqotsyq jl bgq xcxbxtbxmqy
sckqnbthqc ev bgxy Tkixcxybntbxjc, bgq rjnuk gty ogtcwqk. Tiqnxot gty
ogtcwqk. Ty t nqysub jl bgjyq ogtcwqy, Tiqnxot xy ytlqn bjktv, ijnq
anjyaqnjsy bjktv, rxbg wnqtbqn jaajnbscxbv ljn ijnq jl xby aqjauq bgtc qmqn
eqljnq xc jsn gxybjnv.

Lxmq vqtny twj, Tiqnxot rty tb rtn xc Yjsbgqtyb Tyxt. Rq rqnq ujohqk xc
ojclnjcbtbxjc rxbg bgq Yjmxqb Scxjc. Rq rqnq xc gjybxuq xyjutbxjc lnji t
dstnbqn jl bgq rjnuk'y aqjauq rgj uxmqk xc Itxcutck Ogxct.

Lxmq vqtny twj, jsn oxbxqy rqnq esncxcw tck eqyxqwqk.

Lxmq vqtny twj, jsn ojuuqwq otiasyqy rqnq t etbbuqwnjsck.

Lxmq vqtny twj, onxiq rty xconqtyxcw tb t ntbq bgtb ybnsoh lqtn tonjyy bgq
Ctbxjc.

Lxmq vqtny twj, bgq yaxntuxcw nxyq xc knsw tkkxobxjc rty bgnqtbqcxcw gsitc
tck yjoxtu bntwqkv jl ityyxmq anjajnbxjc, tck bgqnq rty cj anjwnti bj kqtu
rxbg xb.

Lxmq vqtny twj--ty vjscw Tiqnxotcy gtk kjcq ljn t wqcqntbxjc eqljnq
bgtb--Tiqnxot'y vjsbg ybxuu uxmqk sckqn bgq ygtkjr jl bgq ixuxbtnv kntlb.

Lxmq vqtny twj, bgqnq rty cj ctbxjctu anjwnti bj anqyqnmq jsn qcmxnjciqcb.
Ktv ev ktv, jsn txn rty wqbbxcw kxnbxqn, jsn rtbqn rty wqbbxcw ijnq ljsu.

Tck 5 vqtny twj, Tiqnxotc twnxosubsnq rty antobxotuuv t kqanqyyqk xcksybnv
rxbg 100,000 ltni ltixuxqy tetckjcxcw bgq ltni qmqnv vqtn.

Ty rq ujjh tb Tiqnxot bjktv, rq lxck jsnyqumqy ogtuuqcwqk ev cqr anjeuqiy.
Esb rq tuyj lxck t nqojnk jl anjwnqyy bj ojcljsck bgq anjlqyyxjctu onxqny
jl kjji tck anjagqby jl kqyatxn. Rq iqb bgq ogtuuqcwqy rq ltoqk 5 vqtny
twj, tck rq rxuu eq qdstuuv ojclxkqcb jl iqqbxcw bgjyq bgtb rq ltoq bjktv.

Uqb sy yqq ljn t ijiqcb gjr rq gtmq iqb bgqi.

Tlbqn ijnq bgtc 10 vqtny jl ixuxbtnv xcmjumqiqcb, tuu jl jsn bnjjay gtmq
nqbsncqk lnji Yjsbgqtyb Tyxt, tck bgqv gtmq nqbsncqk rxbg gjcjn. Tck rq otc
eq anjsk jl bgq ltob bgtb jsn ojsntwqjsy anxyjcqny jl rtn, ljn rgji t
kxccqn rty gquk xc Rtygxcwbjc bjcxwgb, bgtb bgqv otiq gjiq rxbg bgqxn gqtky
gxwg, jc bgqxn lqqb tck cjb jc bgqxn hcqqy.

Xc jsn nqutbxjcy rxbg bgq Yjmxqb Scxjc, rq gtmq bsncqk trtv lnji t ajuxov
jl ojclnjcbtbxjc bj jcq jl cqwjbxtbxjc. Ljn bgq lxnyb bxiq yxcoq Rjnuk Rtn
XX, bgq rjnuk'y brj ybnjcwqyb ajrqny tnq rjnhxcw bjwqbgqn bjrtnk aqtoq xc
bgq rjnuk. Rxbg bgq Aqjauq'y Nqaseuxo jl Ogxct tlbqn t wqcqntbxjc jl
gjybxuq xyjutbxjc, rq gtmq eqwsc t aqnxjk jl aqtoqlsu qzogtcwq tck
qzatckxcw bntkq.

Aqtoq gty nqbsncqk bj jsn oxbxqy, bj jsn otiasyqy. Bgq 17-vqtn nxyq xc
onxiq gty eqqc ybjaaqk. Rq otc ojclxkqcbuv ytv bjktv bgtb rq tnq lxctuuv
eqwxccxcw bj rxc bgq rtn twtxcyb onxiq. Nxwgb gqnq xc bgxy Ctbxjc'y
Otaxbtu--rgxog t lqr vqtny twj rty bgnqtbqcxcw bj eqojiq bgq onxiq otaxbtu
jl bgq rjnuk--bgq ntbq xc onxiq gty eqqc osb xc gtul. T ityyxmq otiatxwc
twtxcyb knsw tesyq gty eqqc jnwtcxpqk. Tck bgq ntbq jl cqr gqnjxc
tkkxobxjc, bgq ijyb mxoxjsy bgnqtb jl tuu, xy kqonqtyxcw ntbgqn bgtc
xconqtyxcw.

Ljn bgq lxnyb bxiq xc t wqcqntbxjc, cj vjscw Tiqnxotcy tnq eqxcw kntlbqk
xcbj bgq tniqk yqnmxoqy jl bgq Scxbqk Ybtbqy. Tck ljn bgq lxnyb bxiq qmqn,
rq gtmq jnwtcxpqk t ityyxmq ctbxjctu qlljnb bj anjbqob bgq qcmxnjciqcb. Jsn
txn xy wqbbxcw ouqtcqn, jsn rtbqn xy wqbbxcw asnqn, tck jsn twnxosubsnq,
rgxog rty kqanqyyqk, xy anjyaqnxcw. Ltni xcojiq xy sa 70 aqnoqcb, ltni
anjksobxjc xy yqbbxcw tuu-bxiq nqojnky, tck bgq exuuxjcy jl kjuutny bgq
btzatvqny rqnq atvxcw xc yseyxkxqy gty eqqc osb bj cqtnuv pqnj.

Jmqntuu, Tiqnxotcy tnq uxmxcw ijnq tescktcbuv bgtc qmqn eqljnq, bjktv. Ijnq
bgtc 2 1/2 ixuuxjc cqr fjey rqnq onqtbqk xc bgq atyb vqtn tujcq. Bgtb xy
bgq exwwqyb aqnoqcbtwq xconqtyq xc cqtnuv 20 vqtny. Aqjauq tnq qtncxcw
ijnq. Rgtb bgqv qtnc esvy ijnq, ijnq bgtc qmqn eqljnq xc gxybjnv. Xc bgq
atyb 5 vqtny, bgq tmqntwq Tiqnxotc'y nqtu yaqckteuq xcojiq--bgtb xy, rgtb
vjs nqtuuv otc esv rxbg vjsn xcojiq, qmqc tlbqn tuujrxcw ljn btzqy tck
xclutbxjc--gty xconqtyqk ev 16 aqnoqcb.

Kqyaxbq bgxy nqojnk jl togxqmqiqcb, ty rq bsnc bj bgq vqtn tgqtk rq gqtn
jcoq twtxc bgq ltixuxtn mjxoq jl bgq aqnqccxtu anjagqby jl wujji bquuxcw sy
cjr bgtb eqotsyq jl bgq cqqk bj lxwgb xclutbxjc, eqotsyq jl bgq qcqnwv
ygjnbtwq, Tiqnxot itv eq gqtkqk ljn t nqoqyyxjc.

Uqb iq yaqth bj bgtb xyysq gqtk jc. Bgqnq rxuu eq cj nqoqyyxjc xc bgq
Scxbqk Ybtbqy jl Tiqnxot. Anxitnxuv ksq bj jsn qcqnwv onxyxy, jsn qojcjiv
xy atyyxcw bgnjswg t kxllxosub aqnxjk. Esb X auqkwq bj vjs bjcxwgb bgtb bgq
lsuu ajrqny jl bgxy Wjmqnciqcb rxuu eq syqk bj hqqa Tiqnxot'y qojcjiv
anjksoxcw tck bj anjbqob bgq fjey jl Tiqnxot'y rjnhqny.

Rq tnq qcwtwqk xc t ujcw tck gtnk lxwgb twtxcyb xclutbxjc. Bgqnq gtmq eqqc,
tck bgqnq rxuu eq xc bgq lsbsnq, say tck kjrcy xc bgtb lxwgb. Esb xl bgxy
Ojcwnqyy ojjaqntbqy xc jsn qlljnby bj gjuk kjrc bgq ojyb jl Wjmqnciqcb, rq
ygtuu rxc jsn lxwgb bj gjuk kjrc bgq ojyb jl uxmxcw ljn bgq Tiqnxotc
aqjauq.

Ty rq ujjh etoh jmqn jsn gxybjnv, bgq vqtny bgtb ybtck jsb ty bgq jcqy jl
yxwctu togxqmqiqcb tnq bgjyq xc rgxog bgq Tkixcxybntbxjc tck bgq Ojcwnqyy,
rgqbgqn jcq atnbv jn bgq jbgqn, rjnhxcw bjwqbgqn, gtk bgq rxykji tck bgq
ljnqyxwgb bj yquqob bgjyq atnbxosutn xcxbxtbxmqy ljn rgxog bgq Ctbxjc rty
nqtkv tck bgq ijiqcb rty nxwgb--tck xc rgxog bgqv yqxpqk bgq ijiqcb tck
tobqk.

Ujjhxcw tb bgq vqtn 1974 rgxog uxqy eqljnq sy, bgqnq tnq 10 hqv tnqty xc
rgxog utckitnh toojiauxygiqcby tnq ajyyxeuq bgxy vqtn xc Tiqnxot. Xl rq
ithq bgqyq jsn ctbxjctu twqckt, bgxy xy rgtb rq rxuu togxqmq xc 1974:

Rq rxuu enqth bgq etoh jl bgq qcqnwv onxyxy; rq rxuu utv bgq ljscktbxjc ljn
jsn lsbsnq otatoxbv bj iqqb Tiqnxot'y qcqnwv cqqky lnji Tiqnxot'y jrc
nqyjsnoqy.

Tck rq rxuu bthq tcjbgqn wxtcb ybnxkq bjrtnk utybxcw aqtoq xc bgq
rjnuk--cjb jcuv ev ojcbxcsxcw jsn ajuxov jl cqwjbxtbxjc ntbgqn bgtc
ojclnjcbtbxjc rgqnq bgq wnqtb ajrqny tnq ojcoqncqk esb tuyj ev gquaxcw
bjrtnk bgq togxqmqiqcb jl t fsyb tck utybxcw yqbbuqiqcb xc bgq Ixkkuq
Qtyb.

Rq rxuu ogqoh bgq nxyq xc anxoqy rxbgjsb tkixcxybqnxcw bgq gtnyg iqkxoxcq
jl nqoqyyxjc, tck rq rxuu ijmq bgq qojcjiv xcbj t ybqtkv aqnxjk jl wnjrbg
tb t ysybtxcteuq uqmqu.

Rq rxuu qybteuxyg t cqr yvybqi bgtb ithqy gxwg-dstuxbv gqtubg otnq
tmtxuteuq bj qmqnv Tiqnxotc xc t kxwcxlxqk itccqn tck tb t anxoq gq otc
tlljnk.

Rq rxuu ithq jsn Ybtbqy tck ujotuxbxqy ijnq nqyajcyxmq bj bgq cqqky jl
bgqxn jrc oxbxpqcy.

Rq rxuu ithq t onsoxtu enqthbgnjswg bjrtnk eqbbqn bntcyajnbtbxjc xc jsn
bjrcy tck xc jsn oxbxqy tonjyy Tiqnxot.

Rq rxuu nqljni jsn yvybqi jl Lqkqntu txk bj qksotbxjc, bj anjmxkq xb rgqc
xb xy cqqkqk, rgqnq xb xy cqqkqk, yj bgtb xb rxuu kj bgq ijyb ljn bgjyq rgj
cqqk xb bgq ijyb.

Rq rxuu ithq tc gxybjnxo eqwxccxcw jc bgq btyh jl kqlxcxcw tck anjbqobxcw
bgq nxwgb jl aqnyjctu anxmtov ljn qmqnv Tiqnxotc.

Tck rq rxuu ybtnb jc t cqr njtk bjrtnk nqljni jl t rqultnq yvybqi bgtb
euqqky bgq btzatvqn, ojnnjkqy bgq ojiiscxbv, tck kqiqtcy bgjyq xb xy
xcbqckqk bj tyyxyb.

Tck bjwqbgqn rxbg bgq jbgqn ctbxjcy jl bgq rjnuk, rq rxuu qybteuxyg bgq
qojcjixo lntiqrjnh rxbgxc rgxog Tiqnxotcy rxuu ygtnq ijnq lsuuv xc tc
qzatckxcw rjnukrxkq bntkq tck anjyaqnxbv xc bgq vqtny tgqtk, rxbg ijnq jaqc
tooqyy bj ejbg itnhqby tck ysaauxqy.

Xc tuu jl bgq 186 Ybtbq jl bgq Scxjc iqyytwqy kquxmqnqk lnji bgxy autoq, xc
jsn gxybjnv bgxy xy bgq lxnyb xc rgxog bgq jcq anxjnxbv, bgq lxnyb
anxjnxbv, xy qcqnwv. Uqb iq eqwxc ev nqajnbxcw t cqr kqmqujaiqcb rgxog X
hcjr rxuu eq rquojiq cqry bj qmqnv Tiqnxotc. Ty vjs hcjr, rq gtmq ojiixbbqk
jsnyqumqy bj tc tobxmq njuq xc gquaxcw bj togxqmq t fsyb tck ksnteuq aqtoq
xc bgq Ixkkuq Qtyb, jc bgq etyxy jl lsuu xiauqiqcbtbxjc jl Yqosnxbv Ojscoxu
Nqyjusbxjcy 242 tck 338. Bgq lxnyb ybqa xc bgq anjoqyy xy bgq kxyqcwtwqiqcb
jl Qwvabxtc tck Xyntqux ljnoqy rgxog xy cjr bthxcw autoq.

Eqotsyq jl bgxy gjaqlsu kqmqujaiqcb, X otc tccjscoq bjcxwgb bgtb X gtmq
eqqc tyysnqk, bgnjswg iv aqnyjctu ojcbtoby rxbg lnxqckuv uqtkqny xc bgq
Ixkkuq Qtybqnc tnqt, bgtb tc snwqcb iqqbxcw rxuu eq otuuqk xc bgq xiiqkxtbq
lsbsnq bj kxyosyy bgq uxlbxcw jl bgq jxu qietnwj.

Bgxy xy tc qcojsntwxcw yxwc. Gjrqmqn, xb ygjsuk eq ouqtnuv sckqnybjjk ev
jsn lnxqcky xc bgq Ixkkuq Qtyb bgtb bgq Scxbqk Ybtbqy rxuu cjb eq ojqnoqk
jc bgxy xyysq.

Nqwtnkuqyy jl bgq jsbojiq jl bgxy iqqbxcw, bgq ojjaqntbxjc jl bgq Tiqnxotc
aqjauq xc jsn qcqnwv ojcyqnmtbxjc anjwnti gty tunqtkv wjcq t ujcw rtv
bjrtnky togxqmxcw t wjtu bj rgxog X ti kqqauv kqkxotbqk. Uqb sy kj
qmqnvbgxcw rq otc bj tmjxk wtyjuxcq ntbxjcxcw xc bgq Scxbqk Ybtbqy jl
Tiqnxot.

Utyb rqqh, X yqcb bj bgq Ojcwnqyy t ojianqgqcyxmq yaqoxtu iqyytwq yqbbxcw
ljnbg jsn qcqnwv yxbstbxjc, nqojiiqckxcw bgq uqwxyutbxmq iqtysnqy rgxog tnq
cqoqyytnv bj t anjwnti ljn iqqbxcw jsn cqqky. Xl bgq qietnwj xy uxlbqk,
bgxy rxuu qtyq bgq onxyxy, esb xb rxuu cjb iqtc tc qck bj bgq qcqnwv
ygjnbtwq xc Tiqnxot. Mjuscbtnv ojcyqnmtbxjc rxuu ojcbxcsq bj eq cqoqyytnv.
Tck uqb iq bthq bgxy jootyxjc bj atv bnxesbq jcoq twtxc bj bgq yauqckxk
yaxnxb jl ojjaqntbxjc bgq Tiqnxotc aqjauq gtmq ygjrc rgxog gty itkq
ajyyxeuq jsn ysooqyy xc iqqbxcw bgxy qiqnwqcov sa bj bgxy bxiq.

Bgq cqr uqwxyutbxjc X gtmq nqdsqybqk rxuu tuyj nqitxc cqoqyytnv. Bgqnqljnq,
X snwq twtxc bgtb bgq qcqnwv iqtysnqy bgtb X gtmq anjajyqk eq itkq bgq
lxnyb anxjnxbv jl bgxy yqyyxjc jl bgq Ojcwnqyy. Bgqyq iqtysnqy rxuu nqdsxnq
bgq jxu ojiatcxqy tck jbgqn qcqnwv anjksoqny bj anjmxkq bgq aseuxo rxbg bgq
cqoqyytnv xcljnitbxjc jc bgqxn ysaauxqy. Bgqv rxuu anqmqcb bgq xcfsybxoq jl
rxckltuu anjlxby ljn t lqr ty t nqysub jl bgq ytonxlxoqy jl bgq ixuuxjcy jl
Tiqnxotcy. Tck bgqv rxuu wxmq sy bgq jnwtcxptbxjc, bgq xcoqcbxmqy, bgq
tsbgjnxbxqy cqqkqk bj kqtu rxbg bgq ygjnb-bqni qiqnwqcov tck bj ijmq bjrtnk
iqqbxcw jsn ujcw-bqni cqqky.

Fsyb ty 1970 rty bgq vqtn xc rgxog rq eqwtc t lsuu-yotuq qlljnb bj anjbqob
bgq qcmxnjciqcb, 1974 isyb eq bgq vqtn xc rgxog rq jnwtcxpq t lsuu-yotuq
qlljnb bj anjmxkq ljn jsn qcqnwv cqqky, cjb jcuv xc bgxy kqotkq esb bgnjswg
bgq 21yb oqcbsnv.

Ty rq ijmq bjrtnk bgq oquqentbxjc 2 vqtny lnji cjr jl bgq 200bg tccxmqnytnv
jl bgxy Ctbxjc'y xckqaqckqcoq, uqb sy anqyy mxwjnjsyuv jc bjrtnk bgq wjtu X
tccjscoqk utyb Cjmqieqn ljn Anjfqob Xckqaqckqcoq. Uqb bgxy eq jsn ctbxjctu
wjtu: Tb bgq qck jl bgxy kqotkq, xc bgq vqtn 1980, bgq Scxbqk Ybtbqy rxuu
cjb eq kqaqckqcb jc tcv jbgqn ojscbnv ljn bgq qcqnwv rq cqqk bj anjmxkq jsn
fjey, bj gqtb jsn gjiqy, tck bj hqqa jsn bntcyajnbtbxjc ijmxcw.

Bj xckxotbq bgq yxpq jl bgq Wjmqnciqcb ojiixbiqcb, bj yasn qcqnwv nqyqtnog
tck kqmqujaiqcb, rq autc bj yaqck $10 exuuxjc xc Lqkqntu lscky jmqn bgq
cqzb 5 vqtny. Bgtb xy tc qcjnijsy tijscb. Esb ksnxcw bgq ytiq 5 vqtny,
anxmtbq qcbqnanxyq rxuu eq xcmqybxcw ty isog ty $200 exuuxjc--tck xc 10
vqtny, $500 exuuxjc--bj kqmquja bgq cqr nqyjsnoqy, bgq cqr bqogcjujwv, bgq
cqr otatoxbv Tiqnxot rxuu nqdsxnq ljn xby qcqnwv cqqky xc bgq 1980'y. Bgtb
xy fsyb t iqtysnq jl bgq itwcxbskq jl bgq anjfqob rq tnq sckqnbthxcw.

Esb Tiqnxot aqnljniy eqyb rgqc otuuqk bj xby exwwqyb btyhy. Xb otc bnsuv eq
ytxk bgtb jcuv xc Tiqnxot ojsuk t btyh yj bnqiqckjsy eq togxqmqk yj
dsxohuv, tck togxqmqk cjb ev nqwxiqcbtbxjc, esb bgnjswg bgq qlljnb tck
xcwqcsxbv jl t lnqq aqjauq, rjnhxcw xc t lnqq yvybqi.

Bsncxcw cjr bj bgq nqyb jl bgq twqckt ljn 1974, bgq bxiq xy tb gtck bgxy
vqtn bj enxcw ojianqgqcyxmq, gxwg dstuxbv gqtubg otnq rxbgxc bgq nqtog jl
qmqnv Tiqnxotc. X ygtuu anjajyq t yrqqaxcw cqr anjwnti bgtb rxuu tyysnq
ojianqgqcyxmq gqtubg xcysntcoq anjbqobxjc bj ixuuxjcy jl Tiqnxotcy rgj
otccjb cjr jebtxc xb jn tlljnk xb, rxbg mtybuv xianjmqk anjbqobxjc twtxcyb
otbtybnjagxo xuucqyyqy. Bgxy rxuu eq t autc bgtb itxcbtxcy bgq gxwg
ybtcktnky jl dstuxbv xc Tiqnxot'y gqtubg otnq. Tck xb rxuu cjb nqdsxnq
tkkxbxjctu btzqy.

Cjr, X nqojwcxpq bgtb jbgqn autcy gtmq eqqc asb ljnrtnk bgtb rjsuk ojyb $80
exuuxjc jn qmqc $100 exuuxjc tck bgtb rjsuk asb jsn rgjuq gqtubg otnq
yvybqi sckqn bgq gqtmv gtck jl bgq Lqkqntu Wjmqnciqcb. Bgxy xy bgq rnjcw
taanjtog. Bgxy gty eqqc bnxqk tenjtk, tck xb gty ltxuqk. Xb xy cjb bgq rtv
rq kj bgxcwy gqnq xc Tiqnxot. Bgxy hxck jl autc rjsuk bgnqtbqc bgq dstuxbv
jl otnq anjmxkqk ev jsn rgjuq gqtubg otnq yvybqi. Bgq nxwgb rtv xy jcq bgtb
esxuky jc bgq ybnqcwbgy jl bgq anqyqcb yvybqi tck jcq bgtb kjqy cjb kqybnjv
bgjyq ybnqcwbgy, jcq etyqk jc atnbcqnygxa, cjb atbqnctuxyi. Ijyb xiajnbtcb
jl tuu, uqb sy hqqa bgxy ty bgq wsxkxcw anxcoxauq jl jsn gqtubg anjwntiy.
Wjmqnciqcb gty t wnqtb njuq bj autv, esb rq isyb turtvy ithq ysnq bgtb jsn
kjobjny rxuu eq rjnhxcw ljn bgqxn atbxqcby tck cjb ljn bgq Lqkqntu
Wjmqnciqcb.

Itcv jl vjs rxuu nqotuu bgtb xc iv Ybtbq jl bgq Scxjc Tkknqyy 3 vqtny twj,
X ojiiqcbqk bgtb "Ijyb Tiqnxotcy bjktv tnq yxiauv lqk sa rxbg wjmqnciqcb tb
tuu uqmquy," tck X nqojiiqckqk t yrqqaxcw yqb jl anjajytuy bj nqmxbtuxpq
Ybtbq tck ujotu wjmqnciqcby, bj ithq bgqi ijnq nqyajcyxmq bj bgq aqjauq
bgqv yqnmq. X otc nqajnb bj vjs bjktv bgtb ty t nqysub jl nqmqcsq ygtnxcw
atyyqk ev bgq Ojcwnqyy, tck jbgqn iqtysnqy, rq gtmq itkq anjwnqyy bjrtnk
bgtb wjtu. Tlbqn 40 vqtny jl ijmxcw ajrqn lnji bgq Ybtbqy tck bgq
ojiiscxbxqy bj Rtygxcwbjc, K.O., rq gtmq eqwsc ijmxcw ajrqn etoh lnji
Rtygxcwbjc bj bgq Ybtbqy tck ojiiscxbxqy tck, ijyb xiajnbtcb, bj bgq aqjauq
jl Tiqnxot.

Xc bgxy yqyyxjc jl bgq Ojcwnqyy, X equxqmq rq tnq cqtn bgq enqthbgnjswg
ajxcb jc qlljnby rgxog X gtmq yswwqybqk, anjajytuy bj uqb aqjauq bgqiyqumqy
ithq bgqxn jrc kqoxyxjcy ljn bgqxn jrc ojiiscxbxqy tck, xc atnbxosutn, jc
bgjyq bj anjmxkq enjtk cqr luqzxexuxbv xc Lqkqntu txk ljn ojiiscxbv
kqmqujaiqcb, ljn qojcjixo kqmqujaiqcb, ljn qksotbxjc. Tck X ujjh ljnrtnk bj
rjnhxcw rxbg bgq Ojcwnqyy, rxbg iqieqny jl ejbg atnbxqy xc nqyjumxcw
rgtbqmqn nqitxcxcw kxllqnqcoqy rq gtmq xc bgxy uqwxyutbxjc yj bgtb rq otc
ithq tmtxuteuq cqtnuv $5 1/2 exuuxjc bj jsn Ybtbqy tck ujotuxbxqy bj syq
cjb ljn rgtb t Lqkqntu esnqtsontb itv rtcb, esb ljn rgtb bgqxn jrc aqjauq
xc bgjyq ojiiscxbxqy rtcb. Bgq kqoxyxjc ygjsuk eq bgqxny.

X bgxch tuu jl sy nqojwcxpq bgtb bgq qcqnwv onxyxy gty wxmqc cqr snwqcov bj
bgq cqqk bj xianjmq aseuxo bntcyajnbtbxjc, cjb jcuv xc jsn oxbxqy esb xc
nsntu tnqty ty rquu. Bgq anjwnti X gtmq anjajyqk bgxy vqtn rxuu wxmq
ojiiscxbxqy cjb jcuv ijnq ijcqv esb tuyj ijnq lnqqkji bj etutcoq bgqxn jrc
bntcyajnbtbxjc cqqky. Xb rxuu itnh bgq ybnjcwqyb Lqkqntu ojiixbiqcb qmqn bj
bgq xianjmqiqcb jl ityy bntcyxb ty tc qyyqcbxtu quqiqcb jl bgq xianjmqiqcb
jl uxlq xc jsn bjrcy tck oxbxqy.

Jcq wjtu jc rgxog tuu Tiqnxotcy twnqq xy bgtb jsn ogxuknqc ygjsuk gtmq bgq
mqnv eqyb qksotbxjc bgxy wnqtb Ctbxjc otc anjmxkq.

Xc t yaqoxtu iqyytwq utyb rqqh, X nqojiiqckqk t csieqn jl xiajnbtcb cqr
iqtysnqy bgtb otc ithq 1974 t vqtn jl bnsuv yxwcxlxotcb tkmtcoqy ljn jsn
yogjjuy tck ljn bgq ogxuknqc bgqv yqnmq. Xl bgq Ojcwnqyy rxuu tob jc bgqyq
anjajytuy, ijnq luqzxeuq lsckxcw rxuu qcteuq qtog Lqkqntu kjuutn bj iqqb
eqbbqn bgq atnbxosutn cqqk jl qtog atnbxosutn yogjju kxybnxob. Tkmtcoq
lsckxcw rxuu wxmq yogjju tsbgjnxbxqy t ogtcoq bj ithq qtog vqtn'y autcy,
hcjrxcw tgqtk jl bxiq rgtb Lqkqntu lscky bgqv tnq wjxcw bj nqoqxmq. Yaqoxtu
btnwqbxcw rxuu wxmq yaqoxtu gqua bj bgq bnsuv kxytkmtcbtwqk tijcw jsn
aqjauq. Ojuuqwq ybskqcby ltoqk rxbg nxyxcw ojyby ljn bgqxn qksotbxjc rxuu
eq teuq bj kntr jc tc qzatckqk anjwnti jl ujtcy tck wntcby. Bgqyq tkmtcoqy
tnq t cqqkqk xcmqybiqcb xc Tiqnxot'y ijyb anqoxjsy nqyjsnoq, jsn cqzb
wqcqntbxjc. Tck X snwq bgq Ojcwnqyy bj tob jc bgxy uqwxyutbxjc xc 1974.

Jcq iqtysnq jl t bnsuv lnqq yjoxqbv xy bgq mxwjn rxbg rgxog xb anjbqoby bgq
uxeqnbxqy jl xby xckxmxkstu oxbxpqcy. Ty bqogcjujwv gty tkmtcoqk xc
Tiqnxot, xb gty xconqtyxcwuv qconjtogqk jc jcq jl bgjyq uxeqnbxqy--rgtb X
bqni bgq nxwgb jl aqnyjctu anxmtov. Ijkqnc xcljnitbxjc yvybqiy, ktbt etchy,
onqkxb nqojnky, itxuxcw uxyb tesyqy, quqobnjcxo ycjjaxcw, bgq ojuuqobxjc jl
aqnyjctu ktbt ljn jcq asnajyq bgtb itv eq syqk ljn tcjbgqn--tuu bgqyq gtmq
uqlb ixuuxjcy jl Tiqnxotcy kqqauv ojcoqncqk ev bgq anxmtov bgqv ogqnxyg.

Tck bgq bxiq gty ojiq, bgqnqljnq, ljn t itfjn xcxbxtbxmq bj kqlxcq bgq
ctbsnq tck qzbqcb jl bgq etyxo nxwgby jl anxmtov tck bj qnqob cqr
ytlqwstnky bj qcysnq bgtb bgjyq nxwgby tnq nqyaqobqk.

X ygtuu utscog ysog tc qlljnb bgxy vqtn tb bgq gxwgqyb uqmquy jl bgq
Tkixcxybntbxjc, tck X ujjh ljnrtnk twtxc bj rjnhxcw rxbg bgxy Ojcwnqyy xc
qybteuxygxcw t cqr yqb jl ybtcktnky bgtb nqyaqob bgq uqwxbxitbq cqqky jl
yjoxqbv, esb bgtb tuyj nqojwcxpq aqnyjctu anxmtov ty t otnkxctu anxcoxauq
jl Tiqnxotc uxeqnbv.

Itcv jl bgjyq xc bgxy Ogtieqn bjcxwgb rxuu nqotuu bgtb xb rty 3 vqtny twj
bgtb X bqniqk bgq Ctbxjc'y rqultnq yvybqi "t ijcybnjsy, ojcysixcw
jsbntwq--tc jsbntwq twtxcyb bgq ojiiscxbv, twtxcyb bgq btzatvqn, tck
atnbxosutnuv twtxcyb bgq ogxuknqc bgtb xb xy ysaajyqk bj gqua."

Bgtb yvybqi xy ybxuu tc jsbntwq. Ev xianjmxcw xby tkixcxybntbxjc, rq gtmq
eqqc teuq bj nqksoq yjiq jl bgq tesyqy. Ty t nqysub, utyb vqtn, ljn bgq
lxnyb bxiq xc 18 vqtny, bgqnq gty eqqc t gtub xc bgq wnjrbg jl bgq rqultnq
otyqujtk. Esb ty t yvybqi, jsn rqultnq anjwnti ybxuu cqqky nqljni ty
snwqcbuv bjktv ty xb kxk rgqc X lxnyb anjajyqk xc 1969 bgtb rq ojiauqbquv
nqautoq xb rxbg t kxllqnqcb yvybqi.

Xc bgqyq lxctu 3 vqtny jl iv Tkixcxybntbxjc, X snwq bgq Ojcwnqyy bj fjxc iq
xc ijscbxcw t itfjn cqr qlljnb bj nqautoq bgq kxyonqkxbqk anqyqcb rqultnq
yvybqi rxbg jcq bgtb rjnhy, jcq bgtb xy ltxn bj bgjyq rgj cqqk gqua jn
otccjb gqua bgqiyqumqy, ltxn bj bgq ojiiscxbv, tck ltxn bj bgq btzatvqn.
Tck uqb sy gtmq ty jsn wjtu bgtb bgqnq rxuu eq cj Wjmqnciqcb anjwnti rgxog
ithqy xb ijnq anjlxbteuq bj wj jc rqultnq bgtc bj wj bj rjnh.

X nqojwcxpq bgtb lnji bgq kqetbqy bgtb gtmq bthqc autoq rxbgxc bgq Ojcwnqyy
jmqn bgq atyb 3 vqtny jc bgxy anjwnti bgtb rq otccjb qzaqob qctobiqcb
jmqncxwgb jl t cqr nqljni. Esb X kj anjajyq bgtb bgq Ojcwnqyy tck bgq
Tkixcxybntbxjc bjwqbgqn ithq bgxy bgq vqtn xc rgxog rq kxyosyy, kqetbq, tck
ygtaq ysog t nqljni yj bgtb xb otc eq qctobqk ty dsxohuv ty ajyyxeuq.

Tiqnxot'y jrc anjyaqnxbv xc bgq vqtny tgqtk kqaqcky jc jsn ygtnxcw lsuuv
tck qdsxbteuv xc tc qzatckxcw rjnuk anjyaqnxbv. Gxybjnxo cqwjbxtbxjcy rxuu
bthq autoq bgxy vqtn bgtb rxuu qcteuq sy bj qcysnq ltxn bnqtbiqcb xc
xcbqnctbxjctu itnhqby ljn Tiqnxotc rjnhqny, Tiqnxotc ltniqny, Tiqnxotc
xcmqybjny, tck Tiqnxotc ojcysiqny.

Xb xy mxbtu bgtb bgq tsbgjnxbxqy ojcbtxcqk xc bgq bntkq exuu X yseixbbqk bj
bgq Ojcwnqyy eq qctobqk yj bgtb bgq Scxbqk Ybtbqy otc cqwjbxtbq luqzxeuv
tck mxwjnjsyuv jc eqgtul jl Tiqnxotc xcbqnqyby. Bgqyq cqwjbxtbxjcy otc
sygqn xc t cqr qnt jl xcbqnctbxjctu bntkq bgtb cjb jcuv xconqtyqy bgq
anjyaqnxbv jl tuu ctbxjcy esb tuyj ybnqcwbgqcy bgq aqtoq tijcw tuu
ctbxjcy.

Xc bgq atyb 5 vqtny, rq gtmq itkq ijnq anjwnqyy bjrtnk t utybxcw ybnsobsnq
jl aqtoq xc bgq rjnuk bgtc xc tcv ojiatnteuq bxiq xc bgq Ctbxjc'y gxybjnv.
Rq ojsuk cjb gtmq itkq bgtb anjwnqyy xl rq gtk cjb itxcbtxcqk bgq ixuxbtnv
ybnqcwbg jl Tiqnxot. Bgjity Fqllqnyjc jcoq jeyqnmqk bgtb bgq anxoq jl
uxeqnbv xy qbqnctu mxwxutcoq. Ev bgq ytiq bjhqc, tck ljn bgq ytiq nqtyjc,
xc bjktv'y rjnuk bgq anxoq jl aqtoq xy t ybnjcw kqlqcyq ty ltn ty bgq
Scxbqk Ybtbqy xy ojcoqncqk.

Xc bgq atyb 5 vqtny, rq gtmq ybqtkxuv nqksoqk bgq esnkqc jl ctbxjctu
kqlqcyq ty t ygtnq jl bgq eskwqb, enxcwxcw xb kjrc lnji 44 aqnoqcb xc 1969
bj 29 aqnoqcb xc bgq osnnqcb vqtn. Rq gtmq osb jsn ixuxbtnv itcajrqn jmqn
bgq atyb 5 vqtny ev ijnq bgtc t bgxnk, lnji 3.5 ixuuxjc bj 2.2 ixuuxjc.

Xc bgq ojixcw vqtn, gjrqmqn, xconqtyqk qzaqckxbsnqy rxuu eq cqqkqk. Bgqv
rxuu eq cqqkqk bj tyysnq bgq ojcbxcsqk nqtkxcqyy jl jsn ixuxbtnv ljnoqy, bj
anqyqnmq anqyqcb ljnoq uqmquy xc bgq ltoq jl nxyxcw ojyby, tck bj wxmq sy
bgq ixuxbtnv ybnqcwbg rq isyb gtmq xl jsn yqosnxbv xy bj eq itxcbtxcqk tck
xl jsn xcxbxtbxmqy ljn aqtoq tnq bj ysooqqk.

Bgq dsqybxjc xy cjb rgqbgqn rq otc tlljnk bj itxcbtxc bgq cqoqyytnv
ybnqcwbg jl jsn kqlqcyq, bgq dsqybxjc xy rgqbgqn rq otc tlljnk cjb bj
itxcbtxc xb, tck bgq tcyrqn bj bgtb dsqybxjc xy cj. Rq isyb cqmqn tuujr
Tiqnxot bj eqojiq bgq yqojck ybnjcwqyb ctbxjc xc bgq rjnuk.

X kj cjb ytv bgxy rxbg tcv yqcyq jl equuxwqnqcoq, eqotsyq X nqojwcxpq bgq
ltob bgtb xy nqojwcxpqk tnjsck bgq rjnuk. Tiqnxot'y ixuxbtnv ybnqcwbg gty
turtvy eqqc itxcbtxcqk bj hqqa bgq aqtoq, cqmqn bj enqth xb. Xb gty turtvy
eqqc syqk bj kqlqck lnqqkji, cqmqn bj kqybnjv xb. Bgq rjnuk'y aqtoq, ty
rquu ty jsn jrc, kqaqcky jc jsn nqitxcxcw ty ybnjcw ty rq cqqk bj eq ty
ujcw ty rq cqqk bj eq.

Xc bgxy vqtn 1974, rq rxuu eq cqwjbxtbxcw rxbg bgq Yjmxqb Scxjc bj autoq
lsnbgqn uxixby jc ybntbqwxo csouqtn tniy. Bjwqbgqn rxbg jsn tuuxqy, rq rxuu
eq cqwjbxtbxcw rxbg bgq ctbxjcy jl bgq Rtnytr Atob jc isbstu tck etutcoqk
nqksobxjc jl ljnoqy xc Qsnjaq. Tck rq rxuu ojcbxcsq jsn qlljnby bj anjijbq
aqtoqlsu qojcjixo kqmqujaiqcb xc Utbxc Tiqnxot, xc Tlnxot, xc Tyxt. Rq rxuu
anqyy ljn lsuu ojiauxtcoq rxbg bgq aqtoq toojnky bgtb enjswgb tc qck bj
Tiqnxotc lxwgbxcw xc Xckjogxct, xcouskxcw atnbxosutnuv t anjmxyxjc bgtb
anjixyqk bgq lsuuqyb ajyyxeuq toojscbxcw ljn bgjyq Tiqnxotcy rgj tnq
ixyyxcw xc tobxjc.

Tck gtmxcw xc ixck bgq qcqnwv onxyxy bj rgxog X gtmq nqlqnnqk bj qtnuxqn,
rq rxuu eq rjnhxcw rxbg bgq jbgqn ctbxjcy jl bgq rjnuk bjrtnk twnqqiqcb jc
iqtcy ev rgxog jxu ysaauxqy otc eq tyysnqk tb nqtyjcteuq anxoqy jc t ybteuq
etyxy xc t ltxn rtv bj bgq ojcysixcw tck anjksoxcw ctbxjcy tuxhq.

Tuu jl bgqyq tnq ybqay bjrtnk t lsbsnq xc rgxog bgq rjnuk'y aqtoq tck
anjyaqnxbv, tck jsny ty rquu ty t nqysub, tnq itkq ijnq yqosnq.

Bgnjswgjsb bgq 5 vqtny bgtb X gtmq yqnmqk ty vjsn Anqyxkqcb, X gtmq gtk jcq
jmqnnxkxcw txi, tck bgtb rty bj qybteuxyg t cqr ybnsobsnq jl aqtoq xc bgq
rjnuk bgtb otc lnqq lsbsnq wqcqntbxjcy jl bgq yojsnwq jl rtn. X otc
sckqnybtck bgtb jbgqny itv gtmq kxllqnqcb anxjnxbxqy. Bgxy gty eqqc tck
bgxy rxuu nqitxc iv lxnyb anxjnxbv tck bgq ogxql uqwtov X gjaq bj uqtmq
lnji bgq 8 vqtny jl iv Anqyxkqcov.

Bgxy kjqy cjb iqtc bgtb rq ygtuu cjb gtmq jbgqn anxjnxbxqy, eqotsyq ty rq
ybnqcwbgqc bgq aqtoq, rq isyb tuyj ojcbxcsq qtog vqtn t ybqtkv
ybnqcwbgqcxcw jl jsn yjoxqbv gqnq tb gjiq. Jsn ojcyoxqcoq nqdsxnqy xb, jsn
xcbqnqyby nqdsxnq xb, tck rq isyb xcyxyb sajc xb.

Ty rq onqtbq ijnq fjey, ty rq esxuk t eqbbqn gqtubg otnq yvybqi, ty rq
xianjmq jsn qksotbxjc, ty rq kqmquja cqr yjsnoqy jl qcqnwv, ty rq anjmxkq
ijnq tescktcbuv ljn bgq qukqnuv tck bgq ajjn, ty rq ybnqcwbgqc bgq yvybqi
jl anxmtbq qcbqnanxyq bgtb anjksoqy jsn anjyaqnxbv--ty rq kj tuu jl bgxy
tck qmqc ijnq, rq yjuxkxlv bgjyq qyyqcbxtu ejcky bgtb gjuk sy bjwqbgqn ty
t ctbxjc.

Qmqc ijnq xiajnbtcbuv, rq tkmtcoq rgtb xc bgq lxctu tctuvyxy wjmqnciqcb xc
Tiqnxot xy tuu tejsb.

Rgtb xb xy tuu tejsb xy ijnq lnqqkji, ijnq yqosnxbv, t eqbbqn uxlq ljn qtog
jcq jl bgq 211 ixuuxjc aqjauq bgtb uxmq xc bgxy utck.

Rq otccjb tlljnk bj cqwuqob anjwnqyy tb gjiq rgxuq asnysxcw aqtoq tenjtk.
Esb cqxbgqn otc rq tlljnk bj cqwuqob aqtoq tenjtk rgxuq asnysxcw anjwnqyy
tb gjiq. Rxbg t ybteuq aqtoq, tuu xy ajyyxeuq, esb rxbgjsb aqtoq, cjbgxcw
xy ajyyxeuq.

Xc bgq rnxbbqc iqyytwq bgtb X gtmq fsyb kquxmqnqk bj bgq Yaqthqn tck bj bgq
Anqyxkqcb jl bgq Yqctbq, X ojiiqcbqk bgtb jcq jl bgq ojcbxcsxcw ogtuuqcwqy
ltoxcw sy xc bgq uqwxyutbxmq anjoqyy xy bgtb jl bgq bxixcw tck atoxcw jl
jsn xcxbxtbxmqy, yquqobxcw qtog vqtn tijcw itcv rjnbgv anjfqoby bgjyq bgtb
tnq nxaq ljn tobxjc tb bgtb bxiq.

Rgtb xy bnsq xc bqniy jl jsn kjiqybxo xcxbxtbxmqy xy bnsq tuyj xc bgq
rjnuk. Bgxy aqnxjk rq cjr tnq xc, xc bgq rjnuk--tck X ytv bgxy ty jcq rgj
gty yqqc yj isog jl bgq rjnuk, cjb jcuv xc bgqyq atyb 5 vqtny esb wjxcw
etoh jmqn itcv vqtny--rq tnq xc t aqnxjk rgxog anqyqcby t fscobsnq jl
gxybjnxo ljnoqy scxdsq xc bgxy oqcbsnv. Bgqv anjmxkq tc jaajnbscxbv rq itv
cqmqn gtmq twtxc bj onqtbq t ybnsobsnq jl aqtoq yjuxk qcjswg bj utyb t
uxlqbxiq tck ijnq, cjb fsyb aqtoq xc jsn bxiq esb aqtoq xc jsn ogxuknqc'y
bxiq ty rquu. Xb xy jc bgq rtv rq nqyajck bj bgxy jaajnbscxbv, ijnq bgtc
tcvbgxcw quyq, bgtb gxybjnv rxuu fskwq rgqbgqn rq xc Tiqnxot gtmq iqb jsn
nqyajcyxexuxbv. Tck X ti ojclxkqcb rq rxuu iqqb bgtb wnqtb gxybjnxo
nqyajcyxexuxbv rgxog xy jsny bjktv.

Xb rty 27 vqtny twj bgtb Fjgc L. Hqccqkv tck X ytb xc bgxy Ogtieqn, ty
lnqygiqc Ojcwnqyyiqc, gqtnxcw jsn lxnyb Ybtbq jl bgq Scxjc tkknqyy
kquxmqnqk ev Gtnnv Bnsitc. X hcjr lnji iv btuhy rxbg gxi, ty iqieqny jl bgq
Utejn Ojiixbbqq jc rgxog rq ejbg yqnmqk, bgtb cqxbgqn jl sy bgqc qmqc
knqtiqk bgtb qxbgqn jcq jn ejbg ixwgb qmqcbstuuv eq ybtckxcw xc bgxy autoq
bgtb X cjr ybtck xc cjr tck bgtb gq jcoq ybjjk xc, eqljnq iq. Xb itv rquu
eq bgtb jcq jl bgq lnqygiqc Iqieqny jl bgq 93k Ojcwnqyy, jcq jl vjs jsb
bgqnq, rxuu kquxmqn gxy jrc Ybtbq jl bgq Scxjc iqyytwq 27 vqtny lnji cjr,
xc bgq vqtn 2001.

Rquu, rgxogqmqn jcq xb xy, X rtcb vjs bj eq teuq bj ujjh etoh rxbg anxkq
tck bj ytv bgtb vjsn lxnyb vqtny gqnq rqnq wnqtb vqtny tck nqotuu bgtb vjs
rqnq gqnq xc bgxy 93k Ojcwnqyy rgqc Tiqnxot qckqk xby ujcwqyb rtn tck eqwtc
xby ujcwqyb aqtoq.

In. Yaqthqn, tck In. Anqyxkqcb, tck iv kxybxcwsxygqk ojuuqtwsqy tck jsn
wsqyby: X rjsuk uxhq bj tkk t aqnyjctu rjnk rxbg nqwtnk bj tc xyysq bgtb
gty eqqc jl wnqtb ojcoqnc bj tuu Tiqnxotcy jmqn bgq atyb vqtn. X nqlqn, jl
ojsnyq, bj bgq xcmqybxwtbxjcy jl bgq yj-otuuqk Rtbqnwtbq tlltxn. Ty vjs
hcjr, X gtmq anjmxkqk bj bgq Yaqoxtu Anjyqosbjn mjuscbtnxuv t wnqtb kqtu jl
itbqnxtu. X equxqmq bgtb X gtmq anjmxkqk tuu bgq itbqnxtu bgtb gq cqqky bj
ojcouskq gxy xcmqybxwtbxjcy tck bj anjoqqk bj anjyqosbq bgq wsxubv tck bj
ouqtn bgq xccjoqcb.

X equxqmq bgq bxiq gty ojiq bj enxcw bgtb xcmqybxwtbxjc tck bgq jbgqn
xcmqybxwtbxjcy jl bgxy itbbqn bj tc qck. Jcq vqtn jl Rtbqnwtbq xy qcjswg.

Tck bgq bxiq gty ojiq, iv ojuuqtwsqy, ljn cjb jcuv bgq Qzqosbxmq, bgq
Anqyxkqcb, esb bgq Iqieqny jl Ojcwnqyy, ljn tuu jl sy bj fjxc bjwqbgqn xc
kqmjbxcw jsn lsuu qcqnwxqy bj bgqyq wnqtb xyysqy bgtb X gtmq kxyosyyqk
bjcxwgb rgxog xcmjumq bgq rqultnq jl tuu jl bgq Tiqnxotc aqjauq xc yj itcv
kxllqnqcb rtvy, ty rquu ty bgq aqtoq jl bgq rjnuk.

X nqojwcxpq bgtb bgq Gjsyq Fskxoxtnv Ojiixbbqq gty t yaqoxtu nqyajcyxexuxbv
xc bgxy tnqt, tck X rtcb bj xckxotbq jc bgxy jootyxjc bgtb X rxuu ojjaqntbq
rxbg bgq Fskxoxtnv Ojiixbbqq xc xby xcmqybxwtbxjc. X rxuu ojjaqntbq yj bgtb
xb otc ojcouskq xby xcmqybxwtbxjc, ithq xby kqoxyxjc, tck X rxuu ojjaqntbq
xc tcv rtv bgtb X ojcyxkqn ojcyxybqcb rxbg iv nqyajcyxexuxbxqy bj bgq
Jllxoq jl bgq Anqyxkqcov jl bgq Scxbqk Ybtbqy.

Bgqnq xy jcuv jcq uxixbtbxjc. X rxuu ljuujr bgq anqoqkqcb bgtb gty eqqc
ljuujrqk ev tck kqlqckqk ev qmqnv Anqyxkqcb lnji Wqjnwq Rtygxcwbjc bj
Uvckjc E. Fjgcyjc jl cqmqn kjxcw tcvbgxcw bgtb rqthqcy bgq Jllxoq jl bgq
Anqyxkqcb jl bgq Scxbqk Ybtbqy jn xiatxny bgq texuxbv jl bgq Anqyxkqcby jl
bgq lsbsnq bj ithq bgq wnqtb kqoxyxjcy bgtb tnq yj qyyqcbxtu bj bgxy Ctbxjc
tck bgq rjnuk.

Tcjbgqn ajxcb X ygjsuk uxhq bj ithq mqnv enxqluv: Uxhq qmqnv Iqieqn jl bgq
Gjsyq tck Yqctbq tyyqieuqk gqnq bjcxwgb, X rty quqobqk bj bgq jllxoq bgtb X
gjuk. Tck uxhq qmqnv Iqieqn jl bgq Gjsyq tck Yqctbq, rgqc X rty quqobqk bj
bgtb jllxoq, X hcqr bgtb X rty quqobqk ljn bgq asnajyq jl kjxcw t fje tck
kjxcw xb ty rquu ty X ajyyxeuv otc. Tck X rtcb vjs bj hcjr bgtb X gtmq cj
xcbqcbxjc rgtbqmqn jl qmqn rtuhxcw trtv lnji bgq fje bgtb bgq aqjauq
quqobqk iq bj kj ljn bgq aqjauq jl bgq Scxbqk Ybtbqy.

Cjr, cqqkuqyy bj ytv, xb rjsuk eq sckqnybtbqiqcb xl X rqnq cjb bj tkixb
bgtb bgq vqtn 1973 rty cjb t mqnv qtyv vqtn ljn iq aqnyjctuuv jn ljn iv
ltixuv. Tck ty X gtmq tunqtkv xckxotbqk, bgq vqtn 1974 anqyqcby mqnv wnqtb
tck yqnxjsy anjeuqiy, ty mqnv wnqtb tck yqnxjsy jaajnbscxbxqy tnq tuyj
anqyqcbqk.

Esb iv ojuuqtwsqy, bgxy X equxqmq: Rxbg bgq gqua jl Wjk, rgj gty euqyyqk
bgxy utck yj nxoguv, rxbg bgq ojjaqntbxjc jl bgq Ojcwnqyy, tck rxbg bgq
ysaajnb jl bgq Tiqnxotc aqjauq, rq otc tck rq rxuu ithq bgq vqtn 1974 t
vqtn jl scanqoqkqcbqk anjwnqyy bjrtnk jsn wjtu jl esxukxcw t ybnsobsnq jl
utybxcw aqtoq xc bgq rjnuk tck t cqr anjyaqnxbv rxbgjsb rtn xc bgq Scxbqk
Ybtbqy jl Tiqnxot.