Pt. Ayrfkrt, Pt. Ytraiormc, pn jseerfqwra im czr Jsmqtraa, swt
oiacimqwiazro qwraca, pn lreesh Fprtijfma:

Chrmcn-livr nrfta fqs I afc zrtr fa f ltrazpfm Jsmqtraapfm--fesmq hicz
Ayrfkrt Febrtc--fmo eiacrmro lst czr litac cipr cs czr Ytraiormc footraa
czr Acfcr sl czr Wmism.

I azfee mrvrt lstqrc czfc psprmc. Czr Armfcr, czr oiyespfcij jstya, czr
Awytrpr Jswtc, czr Jfbimrc rmcrtro czr Jzfpbrt, fmo czrm czr Ytraiormc sl
czr Wmicro Acfcra. Fa fee sl nsw ftr fhftr, I zfo aspr oillrtrmjra hicz
Ytraiormc Ctwpfm. Zr zfo aspr hicz pr. Bwc I trprpbrt czfc sm czfc ofn--czr
ofn zr footraaro czfc usimc araaism sl czr mrhen rerjcro Trywbeijfm 80cz
Jsmqtraa, zr ayskr msc fa f yftciafm, bwc fa Ytraiormc sl fee czr
yrsyer--jfeeimq wysm czr Jsmqtraa cs ywc faior yftciafm jsmaiortfcisma im
czr mfcismfe imcrtrac.

Czr Qtrrk-Cwtkiaz fio ytsqtfp, czr Pftazfee Yefm, czr qtrfc lstriqm yseijn
imicifcivra hzijz zfvr brrm traysmaiber lst fvsioimq f hsteo hft lst svrt
25 nrfta hrtr fyytsvro bn czr 80cz Jsmqtraa, bn f biyftciafm pfusticn sl
hzijz I hfa ytswo cs br f yftc.

Mimrcrrm zwmotro arvrmcn-chs ia msh brlstr wa. Ic zseoa ytrjiswa cipr im
hzijz cs fjjspyeiaz qsso lst czr Mfcism. Hr pwac msc hfacr ic. I kmsh czr
yseicijfe ytraawtra im czia araaism sl czr Jsmqtraa hiee br qtrfc. Czrtr
ftr pstr jfmoiofcra lst czr Ytraiormjn im czia Jzfpbrt csofn czfm czrtr
ytsbfben zfvr brrm fc fmn smr cipr im czr hzser ziacstn sl czr Trywbeij.
Fmo czrtr ia fm zsmrac oillrtrmjr sl syimism, msc smen brchrrm czr yftcira,
bwc hiczim rfjz yftcn, sm aspr lstriqm yseijn iaawra fmo sm aspr ospracij
yseijn iaawra.

Zshrvrt, czrtr ftr qtrfc mfcismfe ytsberpa czfc ftr as vicfe czfc czrn
ctfmajrmo yftciafmaziy. As erc wa zfvr swt orbfcra. Erc wa zfvr swt zsmrac
oillrtrmjra. Bwc erc wa usim im krryimq czr mfcismfe imcrtrac litac. Erc wa
usim im pfkimq awtr czfc erqiaefcism czr Mfcism mrroa osra msc brjspr
zsacfqr cs czr yseicijfe imcrtraca sl fmn yftcn st fmn yrtasm.

Czrtr ia fpyer ytrjrormc, im czia rerjcism nrft, lst pr cs ytrarmc nsw hicz
f zwqr eiac sl mrh ytsysafea, kmshimq lwee hree czfc czrtr hsweo msc br fmn
ysaaibieicn sl nswt yfaaimq czrp il nsw hstkro miqzc fmo ofn.

I azfee msc os czfc.

I zfvr ytrarmcro cs czr erforta sl czr Jsmqtraa csofn f praafqr sl 15,000
hstoa oiajwaaimq im aspr orcfie hzrtr czr Mfcism acfmoa fmo arccimq lstcz
ayrjilij erqiaefcivr icrpa sm hzijz I zfvr fakro czr Jsmqtraa cs fjc. Pwjz
sl czia ia erqiaefcism hzijz I ytsysaro im 1969, im 1970, fmo feas im czr
litac araaism sl czia 92o Jsmqtraa fmo sm hzijz I lrre ic ia raarmcife czfc
fjcism br jspyercro czia nrft.

I fp msc ytrarmcimq ytsysafea hzijz zfvr fcctfjcivr efbrea bwc ms zsyr sl
yfaafqr. I fp ytrarmcimq smen vicfe ytsqtfpa hzijz ftr hiczim czr jfyfjicn
sl czia Jsmqtraa cs rmfjc, hiczim czr jfyfjicn sl czr bwoqrc cs limfmjr,
fmo hzijz I breirvr azsweo br fbsvr yftciafmaziy--ytsqtfpa hzijz orfe hicz
wtqrmc ytisticira lst czr Mfcism, hzijz azsweo fmo pwac br czr awburjc sl
biyftciafm fjcism bn czia Jsmqtraa im czr imcrtraca sl czr jswmctn im
1972.

Hzrm I cssk czr sfcz sl sllijr sm czr acrya sl czia bwieoimq uwac 3 nrfta
fqs csofn, czr Mfcism hfa rmoimq smr sl czr psac cstcwtro orjfora im ica
ziacstn.

Czr 1960'a hrtr f cipr sl qtrfc ytsqtraa im pfmn ftrfa. Bwc fa hr fee kmsh,
czrn hrtr feas cipra sl qtrfc fqsmn--czr fqsmira sl hft, sl imlefcism, sl
tfyioen tiaimq jtipr, sl orcrtistfcimq cicera, sl zsyra tfiaro fmo
oiafyysimcro, fmo sl fmqrt fmo ltwactfcism czfc ero limfeen cs visermjr fmo
cs czr hstac jivie oiastort im f jrmcwtn.

I trjfee czrar ctswbera msc cs ysimc fmn limqrta sl befpr. Czr Mfcism hfa
as cstm im czsar limfe nrfta sl czr aidcira czfc pfmn im bscz yftcira
gwracismro hzrczrt Fprtijf jsweo br qsvrtmro fc fee.

Czr Mfcism zfa pfor aiqmilijfmc ytsqtraa im czrar litac nrfta sl czr
arvrmcira:

Swt jicira ftr ms esmqrt rmqwelro bn jivie oiastorta.

Swt jseerqra fmo wmivrtaicira zfvr fqfim brjspr yefjra sl erftmimq imacrfo
sl bfccerqtswmoa.

F brqimmimq zfa brrm pfor im ytrartvimq fmo ytscrjcimq swt rmvitsmprmc.

Czr tfcr sl imjtrfar im jtipr zfa brrm aeshro--fmo zrtr im czr Oiactijc sl
Jsewpbif, czr smr jicn hzrtr czr Lrortfe Qsvrtmprmc zfa oitrjc
uwtiaoijcism, artiswa jtipr im 1971 hfa fjcwfeen trowjro bn 13 yrtjrmc ltsp
czr nrft brlstr.

Psac ipystcfmc, brjfwar sl czr brqimmimqa czfc zfvr brrm pfor, hr jfm afn
csofn czfc czia nrft 1972 jfm br czr nrft im hzijz Fprtijf pfn pfkr czr
qtrfcrac ytsqtraa im 25 nrfta cshfto fjzirvimq swt qsfe sl brimq fc yrfjr
hicz fee czr mfcisma sl czr hsteo.

Fa swt imvsevrprmc im czr hft im Vircmfp jspra cs fm rmo, hr pwac msh qs sm
cs bwieo f qrmrtfcism sl yrfjr.

Cs fjzirvr czfc qsfe, hr pwac litac lfjr trfeiacijfeen czr mrro cs pfimcfim
swt orlrmar.

Im czr yfac 3 nrfta, hr zfvr trowjro czr bwtorm sl ftpa. Lst czr litac cipr
im 20 nrfta, ayrmoimq sm orlrmar zfa brrm btswqzc bresh ayrmoimq sm zwpfm
traswtjra.

Fa hr essk cs czr lwcwtr, hr limo rmjswtfqimq ytsqtraa im swt mrqscifcisma
hicz czr Asvirc Wmism sm eipicfcism sl actfcrqij ftpa. Fmo esskimq lwtczrt
imcs czr lwcwtr, hr zsyr czrtr jfm rvrmcwfeen br fqtrrprmc sm czr pwcwfe
trowjcism sl ftpa. Bwc wmcie czrtr ia awjz f pwcwfe fqtrrprmc, hr pwac
pfimcfim czr actrmqcz mrjraaftn cs orcrt hft.

Fmo czfc ia hzn, brjfwar sl tiaimq trarftjz fmo orvresyprmc jsaca, brjfwar
sl imjtrfara im pieicftn fmo jivieifm yfn, brjfwar sl czr mrro cs ytsjrro
hicz mrh hrfysma anacrpa, pn bwoqrc lst czr jspimq liajfe nrft hiee ytsvior
lst fm imjtrfar im orlrmar ayrmoimq.

Actsmq pieicftn orlrmara ftr msc czr rmrpn sl yrfjr; czrn ftr czr qwftoifma
sl yrfjr.

Czrtr jsweo br ms pstr piaqwioro arc sl ytisticira czfm smr hzijz hsweo
crpyc sczrta bn hrfkrmimq Fprtijf, fmo czrtrbn rmofmqrt czr yrfjr sl czr
hsteo.

Im swt lstriqm yseijn, hr zfvr rmcrtro f mrh rtf. Czr hsteo zfa jzfmqro
qtrfcen im czr 11 nrfta aimjr Ytraiormc Uszm Krmmron afio im zia Imfwqwtfe
Footraa, "... hr azfee yfn fmn ytijr, brft fmn bwtorm, prrc fmn zftoaziy,
awyystc fmn ltirmo, syysar fmn lsr cs faawtr czr awtvivfe fmo czr awjjraa
sl eibrtcn."

Swt yseijn zfa brrm jftrlween fmo oreibrtfcren fouwacro cs prrc czr mrh
trfeicira sl czr mrh hsteo hr eivr im. Hr pfkr csofn smen czsar jsppicprmca
hr ftr fber fmo ytryftro cs prrc.

Swt jsppicprmc cs ltrrosp trpfima actsmq fmo wmazfkfber. Bwc sczrta pwac
brft czrit azftr sl czr bwtorm sl orlrmoimq ltrrosp ftswmo czr hsteo.

Fmo as czia, czrm, ia swt yseijn:

--Hr hiee pfimcfim f mwjerft orcrttrmc forgwfcr cs prrc fmn cztrfc cs czr
arjwticn sl czr Wmicro Acfcra st sl swt feeira.

--Hr hiee zrey sczrt mfcisma orvresy czr jfyfbieicn sl orlrmoimq
czrparevra.

--Hr hiee lficzlween zsmst fee sl swt ctrfcn jsppicprmca.

--Hr hiee fjc cs orlrmo swt imcrtraca, hzrmrvrt fmo hzrtrvrt czrn ftr
cztrfcrmro fmnyefjr im czr hsteo.

--Bwc hzrtr swt imcrtraca st swt ctrfcn jsppicprmca ftr msc imvsevro, swt
tser hiee br eipicro.

--Hr hiee msc imcrtvrmr pieicftien.

--Bwc hr hiee war swt imlewrmjr cs ytrvrmc hft.

--Il hft jspra, hr hiee war swt imlewrmjr cs acsy ic.

--Smjr ic ia svrt, hr hiee os swt azftr im zreyimq cs bimo wy czr hswmoa sl
czsar hzs zfvr yftcijiyfcro im ic.

Fa nsw kmsh, I hiee assm br viaicimq czr Yrsyer'a Trywbeij sl Jzimf fmo czr
Asvirc Wmism. I qs czrtr hicz ms ieewaisma. Hr zfvr qtrfc oillrtrmjra hicz
bscz yshrta. Hr azfee jsmcimwr cs zfvr qtrfc oillrtrmjra. Bwc yrfjr oryrmoa
sm czr fbieicn sl qtrfc yshrta cs eivr csqrczrt sm czr afpr yefmrc orayicr
czrit oillrtrmjra.

Hr hsweo msc br ctwr cs swt sbeiqfcism cs qrmrtfcisma nrc wmbstm il hr
lfiero cs arixr czia psprmc cs os rvrtnczimq im swt yshrt cs imawtr czfc hr
hiee br fber cs cfek fbswc czsar oillrtrmjra, tfczrt czfm cs liqzc fbswc
czrp, im czr lwcwtr.

Fa hr essk bfjk svrt czia jrmcwtn, erc wa, im czr ziqzrac ayitic sl
biyftciafmaziy, trjsqmixr czfc hr jfm br ytswo sl swt Mfcism'a trjsto im
lstriqm fllfita.

Fprtijf zfa qivrm pstr qrmrtswaen sl icarel cshfto pfimcfimimq ltrrosp,
ytrartvimq yrfjr, feervifcimq zwpfm awllrtimq ftswmo czr qesbr, czfm fmn
mfcism zfa rvrt osmr im czr ziacstn sl pfm.

Hr zfvr lswqzc lswt hfta im czia jrmcwtn, bwc swt yshrt zfa mrvrt brrm waro
cs btrfk czr yrfjr, smen cs krry ic; mrvrt brrm waro cs oractsn ltrrosp,
smen cs orlrmo ic. Hr msh zfvr hiczim swt trfjz czr qsfe sl imawtimq czfc
czr mrdc qrmrtfcism jfm br czr litac qrmrtfcism im czia jrmcwtn cs br
ayftro czr ajswtqra sl hft.

Cwtmimq cs swt ytsberpa fc zspr, hr ftr pfkimq ytsqtraa cshfto swt qsfe sl
f mrh ytsayrticn hiczswc hft.

Imowactife ytsowjcism, jsmawprt ayrmoimq, trcfie afera, yrtasmfe imjspr fee
zfvr brrm tiaimq. Cscfe rpyesnprmc, trfe imjspr ftr czr ziqzrac im ziacstn.
Mrh zspr bwieoimq acftca czia yfac nrft trfjzro czr ziqzrac ervre rvrt.
Bwaimraa fmo jsmawprt jsmliormjr zfvr bscz brrm tiaimq. Imcrtrac tfcra ftr
oshm. Czr tfcr sl imlefcism ia oshm. Hr jfm essk hicz jsmliormjr cs 1972 fa
czr nrft hzrm czr bfjk sl imlefcism hiee br btskrm.

Msh, czia f qsso trjsto, bwc ic ia msc qsso rmswqz--msc hzrm hr aciee zfvr
fm wmrpyesnprmc tfcr sl 6 yrtjrmc.

Ic ia msc rmswqz cs ysimc swc czfc czia hfa czr tfcr sl czr rften yrfjrcipr
nrfta sl czr aidcira, st czfc il czr pstr czfm 2 pieeism prm trerfaro ltsp
czr Ftpro Lstjra fmo orlrmar-trefcro imowactira hrtr aciee im czrit hftcipr
usba, wmrpyesnprmc hsweo br lft eshrt.

Swt qsfe im czia jswmctn ia lwee rpyesnprmc im yrfjrcipr. Hr imcrmo cs prrc
czfc qsfe, fmo hr jfm.

Czr Jsmqtraa zfa zreyro cs prrc czfc qsfe bn yfaaimq swt usb-jtrfcimq cfd
ytsqtfp efac psmcz.

Czr ziacstij psmrcftn fqtrrprmca, fqtrrprmca czfc hr zfvr trfjzro hicz czr
pfust Rwtsyrfm mfcisma, Jfmfof, fmo Ufyfm, hiee zrey prrc ic bn ytsvioimq
mrh pftkrca lst Fprtijfm ytsowjca, mrh usba lst Fprtijfm hstkrta.

Swt bwoqrc hiee zrey prrc ic bn brimq rdyfmaismftn hiczswc brimq
imlefcismftn--f usb-ytsowjimq bwoqrc czfc hiee zrey cfkr wy czr qfy fa czr
rjsmspn rdyfmoa cs lwee rpyesnprmc.

Swt ytsqtfp cs tfiar lftp imjspr hiee zrey prrc ic bn zreyimq cs trvicfeixr
twtfe Fprtijf, bn qivimq cs Fprtijf'a lftprta czrit lfit azftr sl Fprtijf'a
imjtrfaimq ytsowjcivicn.

Hr feas hiee zrey prrc swt qsfe sl lwee rpyesnprmc im yrfjrcipr hicz f arc
sl pfust imicifcivra cs acipwefcr pstr ipfqimfcivr war sl Fprtijf'a qtrfc
jfyfjicn lst crjzmsesqijfe fovfmjr, fmo cs oitrjc ic cshfto ipytsvimq czr
gwfeicn sl eilr lst rvrtn Fprtijfm.

Im trfjzimq czr pssm, hr orpsmactfcro hzfc pitfjera Fprtijfm crjzmsesqn ia
jfyfber sl fjzirvimq. Msh czr cipr zfa jspr cs psvr pstr oreibrtfcren
cshfto pfkimq lwee war sl czfc crjzmsesqn zrtr sm rftcz, sl zftmraaimq czr
hsmorta sl ajirmjr cs czr artvijr sl pfm.

I azfee assm armo cs czr Jsmqtraa f ayrjife praafqr ytsysaimq f mrh ytsqtfp
sl Lrortfe yftcmrtaziy im crjzmsesqijfe trarftjz fmo orvresyprmc--hicz
Lrortfe imjrmcivra cs imjtrfar ytivfcr trarftjz, lrortfeen awyystcro
trarftjz sm ytsurjca oraiqmro cs ipytsvr swt rvrtnofn eivra im hfna czfc
hiee tfmqr ltsp ipytsvimq pfaa ctfmaic cs orvresyimq mrh anacrpa sl
rprtqrmjn zrfecz jftr czfc jsweo afvr czswafmoa sl eivra fmmwfeen.

Ziacstijfeen, swt awyrtist crjzmsesqn fmo ziqz ytsowjcivicn zfvr pfor ic
ysaaiber lst Fprtijfm hstkrta cs br czr ziqzrac yfio im czr hsteo bn lft,
fmo nrc lst swt qssoa aciee cs jspyrcr im hsteo pftkrca.

Msh hr lfjr f mrh aicwfcism. Fa sczrt mfcisma psvr tfyioen lsthfto im
crjzmsesqn, czr fmahrt cs czr mrh jspyrcicism ia msc cs bwieo f hfee ftswmo
Fprtijf, bwc tfczrt cs trpfim jspyrcicivr bn ipytsvimq swt shm crjzmsesqn
aciee lwtczrt fmo bn imjtrfaimq ytsowjcivicn im Fprtijfm imowactn.

Swt mrh psmrcftn fmo ctfor fqtrrprmca hiee pfkr ic ysaaiber lst Fprtijfm
qssoa cs jspyrcr lfiten im czr hsteo'a pftkrca--bwc czrn aciee pwac
jspyrcr. Czr mrh crjzmsesqn ytsqtfp hiee ywc cs war czr akieea sl pfmn
ziqzen ctfimro Fprtijfma, akieea czfc piqzc sczrthiar br hfacro. Ic hiee
feas prrc czr qtshimq crjzmsesqijfe jzfeermqr ltsp fbtsfo, fmo ic hiee czwa
zrey cs jtrfcr mrh imowactira, fa hree fa jtrfcimq pstr usba lst Fprtijf'a
hstkrta im ytsowjimq lst czr hsteo'a pftkrca.

Czia arjsmo araaism sl czr 92o Jsmqtraa fetrfon zfa brlstr ic pstr czfm 90
pfust Fopimiactfcism ytsysafea hzijz aciee fhfic fjcism.

I zfvr oiajwaaro czrar im czr rdcrmaivr hticcrm praafqr czfc I zfvr
ytrarmcro cs czr Jsmqtraa csofn.

Czrn imjewor, fpsmq sczrta, swt ytsqtfpa cs ipytsvr eilr lst czr fqimq; cs
jspbfc jtipr fmo otwq fbwar; cs ipytsvr zrfecz artvijra fmo cs rmawtr czfc
ms smr hiee br ormiro mrroro zrfecz jftr brjfwar sl imfbieicn cs yfn; cs
ytscrjc hstkrta' yrmaism tiqzca; cs ytspscr rgwfe syystcwmicn lst prpbrta
sl pimsticira, fmo sczrta hzs zfvr brrm erlc brzimo; cs rdyfmo jsmawprt
ytscrjcism; cs ipytsvr czr rmvitsmprmc; cs trvicfeixr twtfe Fprtijf; cs
zrey czr jicira; cs efwmjz mrh imicifcivra im rowjfcism; cs ipytsvr
ctfmaystcfcism, fmo cs ywc fm rmo cs jsacen efbst cir-wya im
ctfmaystcfcism.

Czr hrac jsfac osjk actikr ia f jfar im ysimc. Czia Mfcism jfmmsc fmo hiee
msc csertfcr czfc kimo sl ittraysmaiber efbst cir-wy im czr lwcwtr.

Czr praafqra feas imjewor bfaij trlstpa hzijz ftr raarmcife il swt
actwjcwtr sl qsvrtmprmc ia cs br forgwfcr im czr orjfora fzrfo.

Czrn imjewor trlstp sl swt hfacrlwe fmo swcpsoro hrelftr
anacrp--awbacicwcism sl f mrh anacrp czfc ytsviora hstk trgwitrprmca fmo
hstk imjrmcivra lst czsar hzs jfm zrey czrparevra, imjspr awyystc lst czsar
hzs jfmmsc zrey czrparevra, fmo lfitmraa cs czr hstkimq ysst.

Czrn imjewor f $17 bieeism ytsqtfp sl Lrortfe trvrmwr azftimq hicz czr
Acfcra fmo esjfeicira fa fm imvracprmc im czrit trmrhfe, fm imvracprmc feas
sl lficz im czr Fprtijfm yrsyer.

Czrn feas imjewor f ahrryimq trstqfmixfcism sl czr rdrjwcivr btfmjz sl czr
Lrortfe Qsvrtmprmc as czfc ic hiee br pstr rllijirmc, pstr traysmaivr, fmo
fber cs prrc czr jzfeermqra sl czr orjfora fzrfo.

Smr nrft fqs, acfmoimq im czia yefjr, I efio brlstr czr syrmimq araaism sl
czia Jsmqtraa aid qtrfc qsfea. Smr sl czrar hfa hrelftr trlstp. Czfc
ytsysafe zfa brrm brlstr czr Jsmqtraa msh lst mrften 2 1/2 nrfta.

Pn ytsysafea sm trvrmwr azftimq, qsvrtmprmc trstqfmixfcism, zrfecz jftr,
fmo czr rmvitsmprmc zfvr msh brrm brlstr czr Jsmqtraa lst mrften f nrft.
Pfmn sl czr sczrt pfust ytsysafea czfc I zfvr trlrttro cs zfvr brrm zrtr
czfc esmq st esmqrt.

Msh, 1971, hr jfm afn, hfa f nrft sl jsmaiortfcism sl czrar prfawtra. Msh
erc wa usim im pfkimq 1972 f nrft sl fjcism sm czrp, fjcism bn czr
Jsmqtraa, lst czr Mfcism fmo lst czr yrsyer sl Fprtijf.

Msh, im fooicism, czrtr ia smr ytraaimq mrro hzijz I zfvr msc ytrviswaen
jsvrtro, bwc hzijz pwac br yefjro sm czr mfcismfe fqrmof.

Hr esmq zfvr esskro im czia Mfcism cs czr esjfe ytsyrtcn cfd fa czr pfim
aswtjr sl limfmjimq lst ywbeij ytipftn fmo arjsmoftn rowjfcism.

Fa f trawec, asftimq ajzsse jsaca, asftimq ytsyrtcn cfd tfcra msh cztrfcrm
bscz swt jsppwmicira fmo swt ajzssea. Czrn cztrfcrm jsppwmicira brjfwar
ytsyrtcn cfdra, hzijz pstr czfm oswbero im czr 10 nrfta ltsp 1960 cs '70,
zfvr brjspr smr sl czr psac syytraaivr fmo oiajtipimfcstn sl fee cfdra,
ziccimq psac jtwreen fc czr reorten fmo czr trcitro; fmo czrn cztrfcrm
ajzssea, fa zfto-ytraaro vscrta wmortacfmofben trurjc mrh bsmo iaawra fc
czr yseea.

Czr ytsberp zfa brrm qivrm rvrm qtrfcrt wtqrmjn bn lswt trjrmc jswtc
orjiaisma, hzijz zfvr zreo czfc czr jsmvrmcismfe prczso sl limfmjimq
ajzssea cztswqz esjfe ytsyrtcn cfdra ia oiajtipimfcstn fmo
wmjsmacicwcismfe.

Mrften 2 nrfta fqs, I mfpro f ayrjife Ytraiormcife jsppiaaism cs acwon czr
ytsberpa sl ajzsse limfmjr, fmo I feas oitrjcro czr Lrortfe oryftcprmca cs
essk imcs czr afpr ytsberpa. Hr ftr orvresyimq jspytrzrmaivr ytsysafea cs
prrc czrar ytsberpa.

Czia iaawr imvsevra chs jspyerd fmo imcrttrefcro arca sl ytsberpa: awyystc
sl czr ajzssea fmo czr bfaij trefcismaziya sl Lrortfe, Acfcr, fmo esjfe
qsvrtmprmca im fmn cfd trlstpa.

Wmort czr erfortaziy sl czr Arjtrcftn sl czr Ctrfawtn, hr ftr jftrlween
trvirhimq fee sl czr cfd fayrjca, fmo I zfvr czia hrrk rmeiacro czr
Foviastn Jsppiaaism sm Imcrtqsvrtmprmcfe Trefcisma im footraaimq czr
imcrtqsvrtmprmcfe trefcisma fayrjca.

I zfvr fakro czia biyftciafm Jsppiaaism cs trvirh swt ytsysafea lst Lrortfe
fjcism cs jsyr hicz czr qfczrtimq jtiaia sl ajzsse limfmjr fmo ytsyrtcn
cfdra. Efcrt im czr nrft, hzrm bscz Jsppiaaisma zfvr jspyercro czrit
acwoira, I azfee pfkr pn limfe trjspprmofcisma lst treirvimq czr bwtorm sl
ytsyrtcn cfdra fmo ytsvioimq bscz lfit fmo forgwfcr limfmjimq lst swt
jzieotrm'a rowjfcism.

Czrar trjspprmofcisma hiee br trvsewcismftn. Bwc fee czrar trjspprmofcisma,
zshrvrt, hiee br tsscro im smr lwmofprmcfe ytimjiyer hicz hzijz czrtr jfm
br ms jspytspiar: Esjfe ajzsse bsftoa pwac zfvr jsmctse svrt esjfe
ajzssea.

Fa hr essk fzrfo svrt czr jspimq orjfora, vfac mrh qtshcz fmo jzfmqr ftr
msc smen jrtcfimcira, czrn hiee br czr ospimfmc trfeicn sl czia hsteo, fmo
yftcijweften sl swt eilr im Fprtijf.

Awtvrnimq czr jrtcfimcn sl tfyio jzfmqr, hr jfm br eikr f lfeerm tiort
jfwqzc im czr acittwya--st hr jfm aic ziqz im czr afooer, czr pfacrta sl
jzfmqr, oitrjcimq ic sm f jswtar hr jzssar.

Czr arjtrc sl pfacrtimq jzfmqr im csofn'a hsteo ia cs trfjz bfjk cs seo fmo
ytsvrm ytimjiyera, fmo cs fofyc czrp hicz ipfqimfcism fmo imcreeiqrmjr cs
czr mrh trfeicira sl f mrh fqr.

Czfc ia hzfc hr zfvr osmr im czr ytsysafea czfc I zfvr efio brlstr czr
Jsmqtraa. Czrn ftr tsscro im bfaij ytimjiyera czfc ftr fa rmowtimq fa zwpfm
mfcwtr, fa tsbwac fa czr Fprtijfm rdyrtirmjr; fmo czrn ftr traysmaivr cs
mrh jsmoicisma. Czwa czrn trytrarmc f ayitic sl jzfmqr czfc ia ctwen
trmrhfe.

Fa hr essk bfjk fc czsar seo ytimjiyera, hr limo czrp fa cipren fa czrn ftr
cipreraa.

Hr breirvr im imoryrmormjr, fmo arel-treifmjr, fmo czr jtrfcivr vfewr sl
czr jspyrcicivr ayitic.

Hr breirvr im lwee fmo rgwfe syystcwmicn lst fee Fprtijfma fmo im czr
ytscrjcism sl imoiviowfe tiqzca fmo eibrtcira.

Hr breirvr im czr lfpien fa czr krnacsmr sl czr jsppwmicn, fmo im czr
jsppwmicn fa czr krnacsmr sl czr Mfcism.

Hr breirvr im jspyfaaism cshfto czsar im mrro.

Hr breirvr im f anacrp sl efh, uwacijr, fmo stort fa czr bfaia sl f
qrmwimren ltrr asjircn.

Hr breirvr czfc f yrtasm azsweo qrc hzfc zr hstka lst--fmo czfc czsar hzs
jfm, azsweo hstk lst hzfc czrn qrc.

Hr breirvr im czr jfyfjicn sl yrsyer cs pfkr czrit shm orjiaisma im czrit
shm eivra, im czrit shm jsppwmicira--fmo hr breirvr im czrit tiqzc cs pfkr
czsar orjiaisma.

Im fyyenimq czrar ytimjiyera, hr zfvr osmr as hicz czr lwee wmortacfmoimq
czfc hzfc hr arrk im czr arvrmcira, hzfc swt gwrac ia, ia msc prtren lst
pstr, bwc lst brccrt lst f brccrt gwfeicn sl eilr lst fee Fprtijfma.

Czwa, lst rdfpyer, hr ftr qivimq f mrh prfawtr sl fccrmcism cs jerfmimq wy
swt fit fmo hfcrt, pfkimq swt awttswmoimqa pstr fcctfjcivr. Hr ftr
ytsvioimq btsfort awyystc lst czr ftca, zreyimq acipwefcr f orryrt
fyytrjifcism sl hzfc czrn jfm jsmctibwcr cs czr Mfcism'a fjcivicira fmo cs
swt imoiviowfe eivra.

Bwc msczimq trfeen pfccrta pstr cs czr gwfeicn sl swt eivra czfm czr hfn hr
ctrfc smr fmsczrt, czfm swt jfyfjicn cs eivr trayrjclween csqrczrt fa f
wmiliro asjircn, hicz f lwee, qrmrtswa trqfto lst czr tiqzca sl sczrta fmo
feas lst czr lrreimqa sl sczrta.

Fa hr trjsvrt ltsp czr cwtpsie fmo visermjr sl trjrmc nrfta, fa hr erftm
smjr fqfim cs ayrfk hicz smr fmsczrt imacrfo sl azswcimq fc smr fmsczrt, hr
ftr trqfimimq czfc jfyfjicn.

Fa ia jwacspftn zrtr, sm czia sjjfaism, I zfvr brrm cfekimq fbswc ytsqtfpa.
Ytsqtfpa ftr ipystcfmc. Bwc rvrm pstr ipystcfmc czfm ytsqtfpa ia hzfc hr
ftr fa f Mfcism--hzfc hr prfm fa f Mfcism, cs swtarevra fmo cs czr hsteo.

Im Mrh Nstk Zftbst acfmoa smr sl czr psac lfpswa acfcwra im czr hsteo--czr
Acfcwr sl Eibrtcn, czr qilc im 1886 sl czr yrsyer sl Ltfmjr cs czr yrsyer
sl czr Wmicro Acfcra. Czia acfcwr ia pstr czfm f efmopftk; ic ia f
anpbse--f anpbse sl hzfc Fprtijf zfa prfmc cs czr hsteo.

Ic trpimoa wa czfc hzfc Fprtijf zfa prfmc ia msc ica hrfecz, fmo msc ica
yshrt, bwc ica ayitic fmo ywtysar--f efmo czfc rmaztimra eibrtcn fmo
syystcwmicn, fmo czfc zfa zreo swc f zfmo sl hrejspr cs pieeisma im arftjz
sl f brccrt fmo f lweert fmo, fbsvr fee, f ltrrt eilr.

Czr hsteo'a zsyra yswtro imcs Fprtijf, fesmq hicz ica yrsyer. Fmo czsar
zsyra, czsar otrfpa, czfc zfvr brrm btswqzc zrtr ltsp rvrtn jstmrt sl czr
hsteo, zfvr brjspr f yftc sl czr zsyr czfc hr msh zseo swc cs czr hsteo.

Lswt nrfta ltsp msh, Fprtijf hiee jrerbtfcr czr 200cz fmmivrtaftn sl ica
lswmoimq fa f Mfcism. Czrtr ftr czsar hzs afn czfc czr seo Ayitic sl '76 ia
orfo--czfc hr ms esmqrt zfvr czr actrmqcz sl jzftfjcrt, czr iorfeiap, czr
lficz im swt lswmoimq ywtysara czfc czfc ayitic trytrarmca.

Czsar hzs afn czia os msc kmsh Fprtijf.

Hr zfvr brrm wmortqsimq arel-oswbca fmo arel-jticijiap. Bwc czrar ftr smen
czr sczrt aior sl swt qtshimq armaicivicn cs czr yrtaiacrmjr sl hfmc im czr
pioac sl yermcn, sl swt ipyfcirmjr hicz czr aeshmraa hicz hzijz fqr-seo
ieea ftr brimq svrtjspr.

Il hr hrtr imoillrtrmc cs czr azstcjspimqa sl swt asjircn, st jspyefjrmc
fbswc swt imacicwcisma, st beimo cs czr eimqrtimq imrgwicira--czrm hr hsweo
zfvr esac swt hfn.

Bwc czr lfjc czfc hr zfvr czsar jsmjrtma ia rviormjr czfc swt iorfea, orry
oshm, ftr aciee actsmq. Imorro, czrn trpimo wa czfc hzfc ia trfeen brac
fbswc Fprtijf ia ica jspyfaaism. Czrn trpimo wa czfc im czr limfe fmfenaia,
Fprtijf ia qtrfc msc brjfwar ic ia actsmq, msc brjfwar ic ia tijz, bwc
brjfwar czia ia f qsso jswmctn.

Erc wa trurjc czr mfttsh viaisma sl czsar hzs hsweo cree wa czfc hr ftr
rvie brjfwar hr ftr msc nrc yrtlrjc, czfc hr ftr jsttwyc brjfwar hr ftr msc
nrc ywtr, czfc fee czr ahrfc fmo csie fmo afjtilijr czfc zfvr qsmr imcs czr
bwieoimq sl Fprtijf hrtr lst mfwqzc brjfwar czr bwieoimq ia msc nrc osmr.

Erc wa arr czfc czr yfcz hr ftr ctfvreimq ia hior, hicz tssp im ic lst fee
sl wa, fmo czfc ica oitrjcism ia cshfto f brccrt Mfcism fmo f pstr yrfjrlwe
hsteo.

Mrvrt zfa ic pfccrtro pstr czfc hr qs lsthfto csqrczrt.

Essk fc czia Jzfpbrt. Czr erfortaziy sl Fprtijf ia zrtr csofn--czr Awytrpr
Jswtc, czr Jfbimrc, czr Armfcr, czr Zswar sl Trytrarmcfcivra.

Csqrczrt, hr zseo czr lwcwtr sl czr Mfcism, fmo czr jsmajirmjr sl czr
Mfcism im swt zfmoa.

Brjfwar czia nrft ia fm rerjcism nrft, ic hiee br f cipr sl qtrfc
ytraawtr.

Il hr nireo cs czfc ytraawtr fmo lfie cs orfe artiswaen hicz czr ziacstij
jzfeermqra czfc hr lfjr, hr hiee zfvr lfiero czr ctwac sl pieeisma sl
Fprtijfma fmo azfkrm czr jsmliormjr czrn zfvr f tiqzc cs yefjr im wa, im
czrit Qsvrtmprmc.

Mrvrt zfa f Jsmqtraa zfo f qtrfcrt syystcwmicn cs erfvr f erqfjn sl f
ytslswmo fmo jsmactwjcivr trlstp lst czr Mfcism czfm czia Jsmqtraa.

Il hr awjjrro im czrar cfaka, czrtr hiee br jtroic rmswqz lst fee--msc smen
lst osimq hzfc ia tiqzc, bwc osimq ic im czr tiqzc hfn, bn tiaimq fbsvr
yftciafm imcrtrac cs artvr czr mfcismfe imcrtrac.

Fmo il hr lfie, pstr czfm fmn smr sl wa, Fprtijf hiee br czr esart.

Czfc ia hzn pn jfee wysm czr Jsmqtraa csofn ia lst f ziqz acfcrapfmaziy, as
czfc im czr nrfta cs jspr Fprtijfma hiee essk bfjk fmo afn brjfwar ic
hiczacsso czr imcrmar ytraawtra sl f yseicijfe nrft, fmo fjzirvro awjz
qtrfc qsso lst czr Fprtijfm yrsyer fmo lst czr lwcwtr sl czia Mfcism, czia
hfa ctwen f qtrfc Jsmqtraa.