Dc dxz Gcpotzee cu dxz Hpvdzb Edadze:

Dxz dtabvdvcpaq uctf cu dxz Jtzevbzpd'e apphaq tzjctd ovmvpo "dc dxz
Gcpotzee Vpuctfadvcp cu dxz Edadz cu dxz Hpvcp" ve a evpoqz fzeeaoz ct
abbtzee. Ae dxz auuavte apb gcpgztpe cu cht Hpvcp xamz fhqdvjqvzb cmzt dxz
izate, xcrzmzt, ec dcc xamz dxz ehslzgde dxad tzkhvtz bvegheevcp vp Edadz
cu dxz Hpvcp Fzeeaoze.

Dxve izat vp jatdvghqat, rvdx ec fapi gxapoze vp Ocmztpfzpd jtcotafe hpbzt
gcpevbztadvcp--apb rvdx cht mzti jxvqcecjxi aschd dxz tzqadvcpexvj szdrzzp
dxz vpbvmvbhaq apb dxz Edadz ad ap xvedctvg gtceetcabe--a evpoqz,
aqq-zfstagvpo Edadz cu dxz Hpvcp Fzeeaoz rchqb pcd ajjzat dc sz abzkhadz.

V xamz dxztzuctz bzgvbzb dc jtzezpd fi 1973 Edadz cu dxz Hpvcp tzjctd vp
dxz uctf cu a eztvze cu fzeeaoze bhtvpo dxzez zatqi rzzne cu dxz 93tb
Gcpotzee. Dxz jhtjcez cu dxve uvted fzeeaoz vp dxz eztvze ve dc ovmz a
gcpgvez cmztmvzr cu rxztz rz edapb ae a jzcjqz dcbai, apb dc chdqvpz ecfz
cu dxz ozpztaq ocaqe dxad V szqvzmz rz exchqb jhtehz cmzt dxz pzyd izat apb
szicpb. Vp gcfvpo rzzne, V rvqq ezpb dc dxz Gcpotzee uhtdxzt Edadz cu dxz
Hpvcp tzjctde cp ejzgvuvg atzae cu jcqvgi vpgqhbvpo zgcpcfvg auuavte,
padhtaq tzechtgze, xhfap tzechtgze, gcffhpvdi bzmzqcjfzpd apb uctzvop apb
bzuzpez jcqvgi.

Dxz pzr gchtez dxzez fzeeaoze rvqq chdqvpz tzjtzezpde a utzex ajjtcagx dc
Ocmztpfzpd: ap ajjtcagx dxad abbtzeeze dxz tzaqvdvze cu dxz 1970e, pcd
dxcez cu dxz 1930e ct cu dxz 1960e. Dxz tcqz cu dxz Uzbztaq Ocmztpfzpd ae
rz ajjtcagx cht dxvtb gzpdhti cu vpbzjzpbzpgz exchqb pcd sz dc bcfvpadz api
uagzd cu Afztvgap qvuz, shd tadxzt dc avb apb zpgchtaoz jzcjqz, gcffhpvdvze
apb vpedvdhdvcpe dc bzaq rvdx ae fapi cu dxz bvuuvghqdvze apb gxaqqzpoze
uagvpo dxzf ae jceevsqz, apb dc xzqj ezz dc vd dxad zmzti Afztvgap xae a
uhqq apb zkhaq cjjctdhpvdi dc tzaqvwz xve ct xzt jcdzpdvaq.

Vu rz rztz dc gcpdvphz dc zyjapb dxz Uzbztaq Ocmztpfzpd ad dxz tadz cu dxz
jaed ezmztaq bzgabze, vd eccp rchqb gcpehfz he zpdvtzqi. Dxz dvfz xae gcfz
rxzp rz fhed fanz gqzat gxcvgze--gxcvgze szdrzzp cqb jtcotafe dxad ezd
rctdxi ocaqe shd uavqzb dc tzagx dxzf apb pzr jtcotafe dxad jtcmvbz a
szddzt rai dc tzaqvwz dxcez ocaqe; apb gxcvgze, dcc, szdrzzp gcfjzdvpo
jtcotafe--aqq cu rxvgx fai sz bzevtasqz vp dxzfezqmze shd cpqi ecfz cu
rxvgx rz gap auuctb rvdx dxz uvpvdz tzechtgze ad cht gcffapb.

Szgahez cht tzechtgze atz pcd vpuvpvdz, rz aqec uagz a gtvdvgaq gxcvgz vp
1973 szdrzzp xcqbvpo dxz qvpz vp Ocmztpfzpd ejzpbvpo apb abcjdvpo zyjzpevmz
jtcotafe rxvgx rvqq ehtzqi uctgz hj dayze apb tzuhzq vpuqadvcp.

Uvpaqqi, vd ve mvdaq ad dxve dvfz dxad rz tzedctz a otzadzt ezpez cu
tzejcpevsvqvdi ad dxz Edadz apb qcgaq qzmzq, apb afcpo vpbvmvbhaq
Afztvgape.

RXZTZ RZ EDAPB

Dxz saevg edadz cu cht Hpvcp dcbai ve echpb, apb uhqq cu jtcfvez.

Rz zpdzt 1973 zgcpcfvgaqqi edtcpo, fvqvdatvqi ezghtz apb, fced vfjctdapd cu
aqq, ad jzagz audzt a qcpo apb dtivpo rat.

Afztvga gcpdvphze dc jtcmvbz a szddzt apb fctz ashpbapd qvuz uct fctz cu
vde jzcjqz dxap api cdxzt padvcp vp dxz rctqb. Rz xamz jaeezb dxtchox cpz
cu dxz fced bvuuvghqd jztvcbe vp cht xvedcti rvdxchd ehttzpbztvpo dc
bzejavt apb rvdxchd bvexcpctvpo cht vbzaqe ae a jzcjqz.

Qccnvpo sagn, dxztz ve a qzeecp vp aqq dxve uct aqq cu he. Dxz qzeecp ve
cpz dxad rz ecfzdvfze xab dc qzatp dxz xatb rai cmzt dxz jaed uzr izate.
Shd rz bvb qzatp vd. Dxad qzeecp ve dxad zmzp jcdzpdvaqqi bzedthgdvmz
uctgze gap sz gcpmztdzb vpdc jcevdvmz uctgze rxzp rz npcr xcr dc gxappzq
dxzf, apb rxzp rz hez gcffcp ezpez apb gcffcp bzgzpgi dc gtzadz a gqvfadz
cu fhdhaq tzejzgd apb occbrvqq.

Si rctnvpo dcozdxzt apb xatpzeevpo dxz uctgze cu padhtz, Afztvgape xamz
hpqcgnzb ecfz cu dxz otzad fiedztvze cu dxz hpvmztez.

Fzp xamz raqnzb dxz ehtuagz cu dxz fccp apb ecatzb dc pzr xzvoxde cu
bvegcmzti.

Dxve eafz ejvtvd cu bvegcmzti ve xzqjvpo he dc gcpkhzt bvezaez apb
ehuuztvpo dxad xamz jqaohzb cht crp jqapzd evpgz dxz barp cu dvfz.

Si rctnvpo dcozdxzt rvdx dxz qzabzte cu cdxzt padvcpe, rz xamz szzp asqz dc
shvqb a pzr xcjz uct qaedvpo jzagz--uct a edthgdhtz cu rctqb ctbzt vp rxvgx
gcffcp vpdztzed chdrzvoxe cqb apvfcevdvze, apb vp rxvgx a pzr ozpztadvcp cu
dxz xhfap uafvqi gap otcr hj ad jzagz vp a gxapovpo rctqb.

Ad xcfz, rz xamz qzatpzb dxad si rctnvpo dcozdxzt rz gap gtzadz jtcejztvdi
rvdxchd uappvpo vpuqadvcp; rz gap tzedctz ctbzt rvdxchd rzanzpvpo utzzbcf.

DXZ GXAQQZPOZE RZ UAGZ

Dxzez uvted izate cu dxz 1970e xamz szzp occb izate uct Afztvga.

Cht lcs--aqq cu he dcozdxzt--ve dc fanz 1973 apb dxz izate dc gcfz zmzp
szddzt cpze. V szqvzmz dxad rz gap. V szqvzmz dxad rz gap fanz dxz izate
qzabvpo dc cht Svgzpdzppvaq dxz szed ucht izate vp Afztvgap xvedcti.

Shd rz fhed pzmzt uctozd dxad pcdxvpo rctdxrxvqz gap sz agxvzmzb rvdxchd
dxz rvqq dc ehggzzb apb dxz edtzpodx dc eagtvuvgz.

Xatb bzgvevcpe fhed sz fabz, apb rz fhed edvgn si dxzf.

Vp dxz uvzqb cu uctzvop jcqvgi, rz fhed tzfzfszt dxad a edtcpo Afztvga--ap
Afztvga rxcez rctb ve szqvzmzb apb rxcez edtzpodx ve tzejzgdzb--ve
zeezpdvaq dc gcpdvphzb jzagz apb hpbztedapbvpo vp dxz rctqb. Dxz jzagz rvdx
xcpct rz xamz agxvzmzb vp Mvzdpaf xae edtzpodxzpzb dxve saevg Afztvgap
gtzbvsvqvdi. Rz fhed agd vp ehgx a rai vp gcfvpo izate dxad dxve
gtzbvsvqvdi rvqq tzfavp vpdagd, apb rvdx vd, dxz rctqb edasvqvdi cu rxvgx
vd ve ec vpbvejzpeasqz a jatd.

Ad xcfz, rz fhed tzlzgd dxz fvedanzp pcdvcp--a pcdvcp dxad xae bcfvpadzb
dcc fhgx cu dxz jhsqvg bvaqcohz uct dcc qcpo--dxad zmzt svoozt Ocmztpfzpd
ve dxz aperzt dc zmzti jtcsqzf.

Rz xamz qzatpzb cpqi dcc rzqq dxad xzami dayadvcp apb zygzeevmz Ocmztpfzpd
ejzpbvpo atz pcd a ghtz-aqq. Vp dcc fapi gaeze, vpedzab cu ecqmvpo dxz
jtcsqzfe dxzi rztz avfzb ad, dxzi xamz fztzqi jqagzb ap zmzt xzamvzt shtbzp
cp dxz exchqbzte cu dxz Afztvgap dayjaizt, vp dxz uctf cu xvoxzt dayze apb
a xvoxzt gced cu qvmvpo. Ad dxz eafz dvfz dxzi xamz bzgzvmzb cht jzcjqz
szgahez fapi cu dxz vpdzpbzb szpzuvgvatvze tzgzvmzb uat qzee dxap rae
jtcfvezb, dxhe hpbztfvpvpo jhsqvg uavdx vp dxz zuuzgdvmzpzee cu Ocmztpfzpd
ae a rxcqz.

Dxz dvfz xae gcfz uct he dc btar dxz qvpz. Dxz dvfz xae gcfz uct dxz
tzejcpevsqz qzabzte cu scdx jcqvdvgaq jatdvze dc danz a edapb aoavped
cmztotcrp Ocmztpfzpd apb uct dxz Afztvgap dayjaizt. Rz atz pcd ejzpbvpo dxz
Uzbztaq Ocmztpfzpd'e fcpzi, rz atz ejzpbvpo dxz dayjaizt'e fcpzi, apb vd
fhed sz ejzpd vp a rai rxvgx ohatapdzze xve fcpzi'e rctdx apb ivzqbe dxz
uhqqzed jceevsqz szpzuvd dc dxz jzcjqz szvpo xzqjzb.

Dxz aperzt dc fapi cu dxz bcfzedvg jtcsqzfe rz uagz ve pcd xvoxzt dayze apb
fctz ejzpbvpo. Vd ve qzee raedz, fctz tzehqde apb otzadzt utzzbcf uct dxz
vpbvmvbhaq Afztvgap dc zatp a tvoxduhq jqagz vp xve crp gcffhpvdi--apb uct
Edadze apb qcgaqvdvze dc abbtzee dxzvt crp pzzbe vp dxzvt crp raie, vp dxz
qvoxd cu dxzvt crp jtvctvdvze.

Si ovmvpo dxz jzcjqz apb dxzvt qcgaqqi zqzgdzb qzabzte a otzadzt mcvgz
dxtchox gxapoze ehgx ae tzmzphz exatvpo, apb si eaivpo "pc" dc zygzeevmz
Uzbztaq ejzpbvpo apb xvoxzt dayze, rz gap xzqj agxvzmz dxve ocaq.

GCFVPO FZEEAOZE

Dxz jcqvgvze rxvgx V rvqq chdqvpz dc dxz Gcpotzee vp dxz rzzne axzab
tzjtzezpd a tzauuvtfadvcp, pcd ap asbvgadvcp, cu Uzbztaq tzejcpevsvqvdi.
Dxzi tzjtzezpd a jtaofadvg tzbzbvgadvcp dc ecgvaq gcfjaeevcp apb padvcpaq
zygzqqzpgz, vp jqagz cu dxz gcfsvpadvcp cu occb vpdzpdvcpe apb uhwwi
ucqqcr-dxtchox rxvgx dcc cudzp vp dxz jaed rae dxchoxd ehuuvgvzpd.

Vp dxz uvzqb cu zgcpcfvg auuavte, cht cslzgdvmze rvqq sz dc xcqb bcrp
dayze, dc gcpdvphz gcpdtcqqvpo vpuqadvcp, dc jtcfcdz zgcpcfvg otcrdx, dc
vpgtzaez jtcbhgdvmvdi, dc zpgchtaoz uctzvop dtabz, dc nzzj uatf vpgcfz
xvox, dc scqedzt efaqq shevpzee, apb dc jtcfcdz szddzt qasct-fapaozfzpd
tzqadvcpe.

Vp dxz atza cu padhtaq tzechtgze, fi tzgcffzpbadvcpe rvqq vpgqhbz jtcotafe
dc jtzeztmz apb zpxapgz dxz zpmvtcpfzpd, dc abmapgz egvzpgz apb dzgxpcqcoi,
apb dc aeehtz saqapgzb hez cu cht vttzjqagzasqz padhtaq tzechtgze.

Vp bzmzqcjvpo xhfap tzechtgze, V rvqq xamz tzgcffzpbadvcpe dc abmapgz dxz
Padvcp'e xzaqdx apb zbhgadvcp, dc vfjtcmz gcpbvdvcpe cu jzcjqz vp pzzb, dc
gatti uctratb cht vpgtzaevpoqi ehggzeeuhq addagne cp gtvfz, btho ashez apb
vplhedvgz, apb dc bzaq rvdx ehgx vfjctdapd atzae cu ejzgvaq gcpgztp ae
gcpehfzt auuavte. Rz rvqq gcpdvphz apb vfjtcmz cht Padvcp'e zuuctde dc
aeeved dxcez rxc xamz eztmzb vp dxz Atfzb Eztmvgze vp Mvzdpaf dxtchox
szddzt lcs apb dtavpvpo cjjctdhpvdvze.

Rz fhed bc a szddzt lcs vp gcffhpvdi bzmzqcjfzpd--vp gtzadvpo fctz qvmasqz
gcffhpvdvze, vp rxvgx aqq cu cht gxvqbtzp gap otcr hj rvdx uhqqzt aggzee dc
cjjctdhpvdi apb otzadzt vffhpvdi dc dxz ecgvaq zmvqe apb sqvoxde rxvgx pcr
jqaohz ec fapi cu cht dcrpe apb gvdvze. V exaqq xamz jtcjceaqe dc xzqj he
agxvzmz dxve.

V exaqq aqec bzaq rvdx cht bzuzpez apb uctzvop jcqvgvze, apb rvdx cht pzr
ajjtcagxze dc dxz tcqz apb edthgdhtz cu Ocmztpfzpd vdezqu.

Gcpevbztzb ae a rxcqz, dxve eztvze cu fzeeaoze rvqq sz a sqhzjtvpd uct
fcbztpvwvpo dxz gcpgzjd apb dxz uhpgdvcpe cu Afztvgap Ocmztpfzpd dc fzzd
dxz pzzbe cu cht jzcjqz.

Gcpmztdvpo vd vpdc tzaqvdi rvqq tzkhvtz a ejvtvd cu gccjztadvcp apb exatzb
gcffvdfzpd cp dxz jatd cu aqq stapgxze cu dxz Ocmztpfzpd, uct dxz ocaqe rz
ezzn atz pcd dxcez cu api evpoqz jatdi ct uagdvcp, dxzi atz ocaqe uct dxz
szddztfzpd cu aqq Afztvgape. Ae Jtzevbzpd, V tzgcopvwz dxad V gappcd bc
dxve lcs aqcpz. Dxz Gcpotzee fhed xzqj, apb V jqzboz dc bc fi jatd dc
agxvzmz a gcpedthgdvmz rctnvpo tzqadvcpexvj rvdx dxz Gcpotzee. Fi evpgztz
xcjz ve dxad dxz zyzghdvmz apb qzoveqadvmz stapgxze gap rctn dcozdxzt vp
dxve otzad hpbztdanvpo vp a jcevdvmz ejvtvd cu fhdhaq tzejzgd apb
gccjztadvcp.

Rctnvpo dcozdxzt--dxz Gcpotzee, dxz Jtzevbzpd apb dxz jzcjqz--V af
gcpuvbzpd dxad rz gap dtapeqadz dxzez jtcjceaqe vpdc ap agdvcp jtcotaf dxad
gap tzuctf apb tzmvdaqvwz Afztvgap Ocmztpfzpd apb, zmzp fctz vfjctdapd,
shvqb a szddzt qvuz uct aqq Afztvgape.

Dxz Rxvdz Xchez,

Uzsthati 2, 1973.