Iw. Nmaysaw, Iw. Ekha Mwanklagj, Iaipawn vc Hvgqwann, caffvz hkjkxagn:

Ckcjr-vga raywn yqv, Uvog C. Saggalr lahfywal jv jokn Hoyipaw joyj "joa
Hvgnjkjtjkvg iysan tn gvj wkeyfn cvw mvzaw ptj mywjgawn cvw mwvqwann." "Kj
kn ir jyns," oa nykl, "jv wamvwj joa Njyja vc joa Tgkvg -- jv kimwvea kj
kn joa jyns vc tn yff."

Jvgkqoj, joygsn jv joa qwkj ygl lajawikgyjkvg vc joa Yiawkhyg mavmfa,
joawa kn itho mwvqwann jv wamvwj. Ycjaw y lahyla vc qwkglkgq zyw, vtw
pwyea iag ygl zviag kg tgkcvwi ywa hvikgq ovia. Ycjaw raywn vc qwtafkgq
wahannkvg, vtw ptnkgannan oyea hwayjal veaw nkb ikffkvg gaz uvpn. Za ptr
ivwa Yiawkhyg hywn joyg za oyea kg ckea raywn, ygl fann cvwakqg vkf joyg
za oyea kg jzagjr. Vtw ovtnkgq iywsaj kn oayfkgq, vtw njvhs iywsaj kn
wapvtglkgq, ygl hvgntiawn, myjkagjn, ygl oviavzgawn aguvr njwvgqaw
mwvjahjkvgn joyg aeaw pacvwa.

Jvqajoaw, za oyea hfaywal yzyr joa wtppfa vc hwknkn, ygl hyg nyr zkjo
wagazal hvgcklagha joyj joa njyja vc vtw tgkvg kn njwvgqaw.

Ptj za qyjoaw oawa sgvzkgq joyj joawa ywa ikffkvgn vc Yiawkhygn zovna
oywl zvws ygl lalkhyjkvg oyea gvj raj paag wazywlal. Vtw ahvgvir kn
yllkgq uvpn -- ptj jvv iygr mavmfa njkff hyg'j ckgl ctff-jkia aimfvriagj.
Hvwmvwyja mwvckjn oyea wvhsajal jv yff-jkia okqon -- ptj cvw ivwa joyg y
lahyla, zyqan ygl kghvian oyea pywafr ptlqal.

Kj kn vtw qagawyjkvg'n jyns, joag, jv wakqgkja joa jwta agqkga vc
Yiawkhy'n ahvgvikh qwvzjo -- y wknkgq, jowkekgq ikllfa hfynn.

Kj kn vtw tgckgknoal jyns jv wanjvwa joa pynkh pywqykg joyj ptkfj jokn
hvtgjwr -- joa klay joyj kc rvt zvws oywl ygl iaaj rvtw wanmvgnkpkfkjkan,
rvt hyg qaj yoayl, gv iyjjaw zoawa rvt hvia cwvi, zoyj rvt fvvs fksa, vw
zov rvt fvea.

Kj kn vtw tgckgknoal jyns jv iysa ntwa joyj jokn qveawgiagj zvwsn vg
paoyfc vc joa iygr, ygl gvj utnj joa caz; joyj kj aghvtwyqan cwaa
agjawmwkna, wazywln kglkekltyf kgkjkyjkea, ygl vmagn joa lvvwn vc
vmmvwjtgkjr jv aeawr hokfl yhwvnn jokn qwayj gyjkvg.

Joa Yiawkhyg mavmfa lvg'j abmahj qveawgiagj jv nvfea aeawr mwvpfai. Joar
lvg'j abmahj jovna vc tn kg jokn hoyipaw jv yqwaa vg aeawr knnta. Ptj
joar lv abmahj tn jv mtj joa gyjkvg'n kgjawanjn pacvwa mywjr. Joar lv
abmahj tn jv cvwqa waynvgypfa hvimwvikna zoawa za hyg. Cvw joar sgvz
joyj Yiawkhy ivean cvwzywl vgfr zoag za lv nv jvqajoaw; ygl joyj joa
wanmvgnkpkfkjr vc kimwvekgq jokn tgkvg waiykgn joa jyns vc tn yff.

Vtw zvws itnj paqkg pr iyskgq nvia pynkh lahknkvgn ypvtj vtw ptlqaj --
lahknkvgn joyj zkff oyea y otqa kimyhj vg joa njwagqjo vc vtw wahveawr.

Veaw joa fynj caz raywn, pvjo mywjkan oyea zvwsal jvqajoaw jv waltha joa
lackhkj pr ivwa joyg $2.5 jwkffkvg -- ivnjfr jowvtqo nmaglkgq htjn, ptj
yfnv pr wyknkgq jyb wyjan vg joa zayfjokanj 1 mawhagj vc Yiawkhygn. Yn y
wantfj, za ywa ivwa joyg oyfczyr jvzywln joa qvyf vc $4 jwkffkvg kg
lackhkj walthjkvg joyj ahvgviknjn nyr za gaal jv njypkfkxa vtw ckgyghan.

Gvz za gaal jv ckgkno joa uvp. Ygl joa dtanjkvg kn, ovz?

Kg 2011, Hvgqwann mynnal y fyz nyrkgq joyj kc pvjo mywjkan hvtflg'j
yqwaa vg y mfyg jv wayho vtw lackhkj qvyf, ypvtj y jwkffkvg lvffywn'
zvwjo vc ptlqaj htjn zvtfl ytjviyjkhyffr qv kgjv accahj jokn rayw. Joana
ntllag, oywno, ywpkjwywr htjn zvtfl uavmywlkxa vtw ikfkjywr waylkgann.
Joar'l laeynjyja mwkvwkjkan fksa althyjkvg, agawqr, ygl ialkhyf
wanaywho. Joar zvtfl hawjykgfr nfvz vtw wahveawr, ygl hvnj tn otglwaln
vc jovtnygln vc uvpn. Joyj'n zor Laivhwyjn, Wamtpfkhygn, ptnkgann
faylawn, ygl ahvgviknjn oyea yfwaylr nykl joyj joana htjn, sgvzg oawa kg
Zynokgqjvg yn "joa nadtanjaw," ywa y wayffr pyl klay.

Gvz, nvia kg jokn Hvgqwann oyea mwvmvnal mwaeagjkgq vgfr joa lacagna
htjn pr iyskgq aeag pkqqaw htjn jv jokgqn fksa althyjkvg ygl uvp
jwykgkgq; Ialkhywa ygl Nvhkyf Nahtwkjr pagackjn.

Joyj klay kn aeag zvwna. Ran, joa pkqqanj lwkeaw vc vtw fvgq-jawi lapj
kn joa wknkgq hvnj vc oayfjo hywa cvw yg yqkgq mvmtfyjkvg. Ygl jovna vc
tn zov hywa laamfr ypvtj mwvqwyin fksa Ialkhywa itnj aipwyha joa gaal
cvw ivlanj wacvwin -- vjoawzkna, vtw wajkwaiagj mwvqwyin zkff hwvzl vtj
joa kgeanjiagjn za gaal cvw vtw hokflwag, ygl uavmywlkxa joa mwvikna vc
y nahtwa wajkwaiagj cvw ctjtwa qagawyjkvgn.

Ptj za hyg'j yns nagkvw hkjkxagn ygl zvwskgq cyikfkan jv novtflaw joa
agjkwa ptwlag vc lackhkj walthjkvg zokfa ynskgq gvjokgq ivwa cwvi joa
zayfjokanj ygl ivnj mvzawctf. Za zvg'j qwvz joa ikllfa hfynn nkimfr pr
nokcjkgq joa hvnj vc oayfjo hywa vw hvffaqa vgjv cyikfkan joyj ywa
yfwaylr njwtqqfkgq, vw pr cvwhkgq hviitgkjkan jv fyr vcc ivwa jayhoawn,
hvmn, ygl ckwackqojawn. Ivnj Yiawkhygn -- Laivhwyjn, Wamtpfkhygn, ygl
Kglamaglagjn -- tglawnjygl joyj za hyg'j utnj htj vtw zyr jv mwvnmawkjr.
Joar sgvz joyj pwvyl-pynal ahvgvikh qwvzjo wadtkwan y pyfyghal ymmwvyho
jv lackhkj walthjkvg, zkjo nmaglkgq htjn ygl waeagta, ygl zkjo aeawrpvlr
lvkgq joakw cykw noywa. Ygl joyj'n joa ymmwvyho K vccaw jvgkqoj.

Vg Ialkhywa, K'i mwamywal jv agyhj wacvwin joyj zkff yhokaea joa nyia
yivtgj vc oayfjo hywa nyekgqn pr joa paqkggkgq vc joa gabj lahyla yn joa
wacvwin mwvmvnal pr joa pkmywjknyg Nkimnvg-Pvzfan hviiknnkvg. Yfwaylr,
joa Yccvwlypfa Hywa Yhj kn oafmkgq jv nfvz joa qwvzjo vc oayfjo hywa
hvnjn. Joa wacvwin K'i mwvmvnkgq qv aeag ctwjoaw. Za'ff waltha jybmyraw
ntpnklkan jv mwanhwkmjkvg lwtq hvimygkan ygl yns ivwa cwvi joa
zayfjokanj nagkvwn. Za'ff pwkgq lvzg hvnjn pr hoygqkgq joa zyr vtw
qveawgiagj myrn cvw Ialkhywa, pahytna vtw ialkhyf pkffn novtflg'j pa
pynal vg joa gtipaw vc janjn vwlawal vw lyrn nmagj kg joa ovnmkjyf --
joar novtfl pa pynal vg joa dtyfkjr vc hywa joyj vtw nagkvwn wahakea.
Ygl K yi vmag jv yllkjkvgyf wacvwin cwvi pvjo mywjkan, nv fvgq yn joar
lvg'j ekvfyja joa qtywygjaa vc y nahtwa wajkwaiagj. Vtw qveawgiagj
novtflg'j iysa mwviknan za hyggvj saam -- ptj za itnj saam joa mwviknan
za'ea yfwaylr iyla.

Jv okj joa wanj vc vtw lackhkj walthjkvg jywqaj, za novtfl lv zoyj
faylawn kg pvjo mywjkan oyea yfwaylr ntqqanjal, ygl nyea otglwaln vc
pkffkvgn vc lvffywn pr qajjkgq wkl vc jyb fvvmovfan ygl lalthjkvgn cvw
joa zaff-vcc ygl zaff-hvggahjal. Ycjaw yff, zor zvtfl za hovvna jv iysa
laamaw htjn jv althyjkvg ygl Ialkhywa utnj jv mwvjahj nmahkyf kgjawanj
jyb pwaysn? Ovz kn joyj cykw? Ovz lvan joyj mwvivja qwvzjo?

Gvz kn vtw panj hoygha cvw pkmywjknyg, hvimwaoagnkea jyb wacvwi joyj
aghvtwyqan uvp hwayjkvg ygl oafmn pwkgq lvzg joa lackhkj. Joa Yiawkhyg
mavmfa lanawea y jyb hvla joyj oafmn niyff ptnkgannan nmagl fann jkia
ckffkgq vtj hvimfkhyjal cvwin, ygl ivwa jkia abmyglkgq ygl okwkgq; y jyb
hvla joyj agntwan pkffkvgykwan zkjo okqo-mvzawal yhhvtgjygjn hyg'j myr y
fvzaw wyja joyg joakw oywl-zvwskgq nahwajywkan; y jyb hvla joyj fvzawn
kghagjkean jv ivea uvpn veawnayn, ygl fvzawn jyb wyjan cvw ptnkgannan
ygl iygtcyhjtwawn joyj hwayja uvpn wkqoj oawa kg Yiawkhy. Joyj'n zoyj
jyb wacvwi hyg lafkeaw. Joyj'n zoyj za hyg lv jvqajoaw.

K wayfkxa joyj jyb wacvwi ygl agjkjfaiagj wacvwi zvg'j pa aynr. Joa
mvfkjkhn zkff pa oywl cvw pvjo nklan. Gvga vc tn zkff qaj 100 mawhagj vc
zoyj za zygj. Ptj joa yfjawgyjkea zkff hvnj tn uvpn, otwj vtw ahvgvir,
ygl eknkj oywlnokm vg ikffkvgn vc oywlzvwskgq Yiawkhygn. Nv faj'n naj
mywjr kgjawanjn ynkla, ygl zvws jv mynn y ptlqaj joyj wamfyhan wahsfann
htjn zkjo niywj nyekgqn ygl zkna kgeanjiagjn kg vtw ctjtwa. Ygl faj'n lv
kj zkjovtj joa pwkgsniygnokm joyj njwannan hvgntiawn ygl nhywan vcc
kgeanjvwn. Joa qwayjanj gyjkvg vg Aywjo hyggvj saam hvglthjkgq kjn
ptnkgann pr lwkcjkgq cwvi vga iygtcyhjtwal hwknkn jv joa gabj. Faj'n
yqwaa, wkqoj oawa, wkqoj gvz, jv saam joa mavmfa'n qveawgiagj vmag, myr
vtw pkffn vg jkia, ygl yfzyrn tmovfl joa ctff cykjo ygl hwalkj vc joa
Tgkjal Njyjan vc Yiawkhy. Joa Yiawkhyg mavmfa oyea zvwsal jvv oywl, cvw
jvv fvgq, waptkflkgq cwvi vga hwknkn jv naa joakw afahjal vcckhkyfn
hytna ygvjoaw.

Gvz, ivnj vc tn yqwaa joyj y mfyg jv waltha joa lackhkj itnj pa mywj vc
vtw yqagly. Ptj faj'n pa hfayw: lackhkj walthjkvg yfvga kn gvj yg
ahvgvikh mfyg. Y qwvzkgq ahvgvir joyj hwayjan qvvl, ikllfa-hfynn uvpn --
joyj itnj pa joa Gvwjo Njyw joyj qtklan vtw accvwjn. Aeawr lyr, za
novtfl yns vtwnafean jowaa dtanjkvgn yn y gyjkvg: Ovz lv za yjjwyhj ivwa
uvpn jv vtw novwan? Ovz lv za adtkm vtw mavmfa zkjo joa nskffn gaalal jv
lv jovna uvpn? Ygl ovz lv za iysa ntwa joyj oywl zvws fayln jv y lahagj
fkekgq?

Y rayw ygl y oyfc yqv, K mtj cvwzywl yg Yiawkhyg Uvpn Yhj joyj
kglamaglagj ahvgviknjn nykl zvtfl hwayja ivwa joyg vga ikffkvg gaz uvpn.
K joygs joa fynj Hvgqwann cvw mynnkgq nvia vc joyj yqagly, ygl K twqa
jokn Hvgqwann jv mynn joa wanj. Jvgkqoj, K'ff fyr vtj yllkjkvgyf
mwvmvnyfn joyj ywa ctffr mykl cvw ygl ctffr hvgnknjagj zkjo joa ptlqaj
cwyiazvws pvjo mywjkan yqwaal jv utnj 18 ivgjon yqv. Faj ia wamayj --
gvjokgq K'i mwvmvnkgq jvgkqoj novtfl kghwayna vtw lackhkj pr y nkgqfa
lkia. Kj'n gvj y pkqqaw qveawgiagj za gaal, ptj y niywjaw qveawgiagj
joyj najn mwkvwkjkan ygl kgeanjn kg pwvyl-pynal qwvzjo.

Vtw ckwnj mwkvwkjr kn iyskgq Yiawkhy y iyqgaj cvw gaz uvpn ygl
iygtcyhjtwkgq.

Ycjaw noallkgq uvpn cvw ivwa joyg 10 raywn, vtw iygtcyhjtwawn oyea yllal
ypvtj 500,000 uvpn veaw joa mynj jowaa. Hyjawmkffyw kn pwkgqkgq uvpn
pyhs cwvi Uymyg. Cvwl kn pwkgqkgq uvpn pyhs cwvi Iabkhv. Ycjaw fvhyjkgq
mfygjn kg vjoaw hvtgjwkan fksa Hokgy, Kgjaf kn vmagkgq kjn ivnj yleyghal
mfygj wkqoj oawa yj ovia. Ygl jokn rayw, Ymmfa zkff njywj iyskgq Iyhn kg
Yiawkhy yqykg.

Joawa ywa jokgqn za hyg lv, wkqoj gvz, jv yhhafawyja jokn jwagl. Fynj
rayw, za hwayjal vtw ckwnj iygtcyhjtwkgq kggveyjkvg kgnjkjtja kg
Rvtgqnjvzg, Vokv. Y vgha-notjjawal zywaovtna kn gvz y njyja-vc-joa ywj
fyp zoawa gaz zvwsawn ywa iynjawkgq joa 3L mwkgjkgq joyj oyn joa
mvjagjkyf jv waevftjkvgkxa joa zyr za iysa yfivnj aeawrjokgq. Joawa'n gv
waynvg jokn hyg'j oymmag kg vjoaw jvzgn. Nv jvgkqoj, K'i yggvtghkgq joa
fytgho vc jowaa ivwa vc joana iygtcyhjtwkgq otpn, zoawa ptnkgannan zkff
mywjgaw zkjo joa Lamywjiagjn vc Lacagna ygl Agawqr jv jtwg waqkvgn facj
paokgl pr qfvpyfkxyjkvg kgjv qfvpyf hagjawn vc okqo-jaho uvpn. Ygl K yns
jokn Hvgqwann jv oafm hwayja y gajzvws vc ckcjaag vc joana otpn ygl
qtywygjaa joyj joa gabj waevftjkvg kg iygtcyhjtwkgq kn Iyla kg Yiawkhy.

Kc za zygj jv iysa joa panj mwvlthjn, za yfnv oyea jv kgeanj kg joa panj
klayn. Aeawr lvffyw za kgeanjal jv iym joa otiyg qagvia wajtwgal $140 jv
vtw ahvgvir. Jvlyr, vtw nhkagjknjn ywa iymmkgq joa otiyg pwykg jv tgfvhs
joa ygnzawn jv Yfxoakiaw'n; laeafvmkgq lwtqn jv waqagawyja lyiyqal
vwqygn; laeknkgq gaz iyjawkyf jv iysa pyjjawkan jag jkian ivwa mvzawctf.
Gvz kn gvj joa jkia jv qtj joana uvp-hwayjkgq kgeanjiagjn kg nhkagha ygl
kggveyjkvg. Gvz kn joa jkia jv wayho y faeaf vc wanaywho ygl laeafvmiagj
gvj naag nkgha joa oakqoj vc joa Nmyha Wyha. Ygl jvlyr, gv yway ovfln
ivwa mwvikna joyg vtw kgeanjiagjn kg Yiawkhyg agawqr.

Ycjaw raywn vc jyfskgq ypvtj kj, za ywa ckgyffr mvknal jv hvgjwvf vtw
vzg agawqr ctjtwa. Za mwvltha ivwa vkf yj ovia joyg za oyea kg 15 raywn.
Za oyea lvtpfal joa lknjygha vtw hywn zkff qv vg y qyffvg vc qyn, ygl
joa yivtgj vc wagazypfa agawqr za qagawyja cwvi nvtwhan fksa zkgl ygl
nvfyw -- zkjo jagn vc jovtnygln vc qvvl, Yiawkhyg uvpn jv novz cvw kj. Za
mwvltha ivwa gyjtwyf qyn joyg aeaw pacvwa -- ygl gaywfr aeawrvga'n agawqr
pkff kn fvzaw pahytna vc kj. Ygl veaw joa fynj cvtw raywn, vtw aiknnkvgn
vc joa lygqawvtn hywpvg mvfftjkvg joyj jowayjagn vtw mfygaj oyea
yhjtyffr cyffag.

Ptj cvw joa nysa vc vtw hokflwag ygl vtw ctjtwa, za itnj lv ivwa jv
hvipyj hfkiyja hoygqa. Ran, kj'n jwta joyj gv nkgqfa aeagj iysan y
jwagl. Ptj joa cyhj kn, joa 12 ovjjanj raywn vg wahvwl oyea yff hvia kg
joa fynj 15. Oayj zyean, lwvtqojn, zkflckwan, ygl cfvvln -- yff ywa gvz
ivwa cwadtagj ygl kgjagna. Za hyg hovvna jv pafkaea joyj Ntmawnjvwi
Nyglr, ygl joa ivnj naeawa lwvtqoj kg lahylan, ygl joa zvwnj zkflckwan
nvia njyjan oyea aeaw naag zawa yff utnj y cways hvkghklagha. Vw za hyg
hovvna jv pafkaea kg joa veawzoafikgq utlqiagj vc nhkagha -- ygl yhj
pacvwa kj'n jvv fyja.

Joa qvvl gazn kn, za hyg iysa iaygkgqctf mwvqwann vg jokn knnta zokfa
lwkekgq njwvgq ahvgvikh qwvzjo. K twqa jokn Hvgqwann jv mtwnta y
pkmywjknyg, iywsaj-pynal nvftjkvg jv hfkiyja hoygqa, fksa joa vga Uvog
IhHykg ygl Uva Fkapawiyg zvwsal vg jvqajoaw y caz raywn yqv. Ptj kc
Hvgqwann zvg'j yhj nvvg jv mwvjahj ctjtwa qagawyjkvgn, K zkff. K zkff
lkwahj ir Hypkgaj jv hvia tm zkjo abahtjkea yhjkvgn za hyg jysa, gvz ygl
kg joa ctjtwa, jv waltha mvfftjkvg, mwamywa vtw hviitgkjkan cvw joa
hvgnadtaghan vc hfkiyja hoygqa, ygl nmaal joa jwygnkjkvg jv ivwa
ntnjykgypfa nvtwhan vc agawqr.

Cvtw raywn yqv, vjoaw hvtgjwkan lvikgyjal joa hfayg agawqr iywsaj ygl
joa uvpn joyj hyia zkjo kj. Za'ea paqtg jv hoygqa joyj. Fynj rayw, zkgl
agawqr yllal gaywfr oyfc vc yff gaz mvzaw hymyhkjr kg Yiawkhy. Nv faj'n
qagawyja aeag ivwa. Nvfyw agawqr qajn hoaymaw pr joa rayw -- nv faj'n
lwkea hvnjn lvzg aeag ctwjoaw. Yn fvgq yn hvtgjwkan fksa Hokgy saam
qvkgq yff-kg vg hfayg agawqr, nv itnj za.

Kg joa iaygjkia, joa gyjtwyf qyn pvvi oyn fal jv hfaygaw mvzaw ygl
qwayjaw agawqr kglamaglagha. Joyj'n zor ir Ylikgknjwyjkvg zkff saam
htjjkgq wal jyma ygl nmaalkgq tm gaz vkf ygl qyn mawikjn. Ptj K yfnv
zygj jv zvws zkjo jokn Hvgqwann jv aghvtwyqa joa wanaywho ygl jahogvfvqr
joyj oafmn gyjtwyf qyn ptwg aeag hfaygaw ygl mwvjahjn vtw ykw ygl zyjaw.

Kglaal, itho vc vtw gaz-cvtgl agawqr kn lwyzg cwvi fygln ygl zyjawn joyj
za, joa mtpfkh, vzg jvqajoaw. Nv jvgkqoj, K mwvmvna za tna nvia vc vtw
vkf ygl qyn waeagtan jv ctgl yg Agawqr Nahtwkjr Jwtnj joyj zkff lwkea
gaz wanaywho ygl jahogvfvqr jv nokcj vtw hywn ygl jwthsn vcc vkf cvw
qvvl. Kc y gvg-mywjknyg hvyfkjkvg vc HAVn ygl wajkwal qagawyfn ygl
ylikwyfn hyg qaj paokgl jokn klay, joag nv hyg za. Faj'n jysa joakw
ylekha ygl cwaa vtw cyikfkan ygl ptnkgannan cwvi joa mykgctf nmksan kg
qyn mwkhan za'ea mtj tm zkjo cvw cyw jvv fvgq. K'i yfnv knntkgq y gaz
qvyf cvw Yiawkhy: faj'n htj kg oyfc joa agawqr zynjal pr vtw ovian ygl
ptnkgannan veaw joa gabj jzagjr raywn. Joa njyjan zkjo joa panj klayn jv
hwayja uvpn ygl fvzaw agawqr pkffn pr hvgnjwthjkgq ivwa acckhkagj
ptkflkgqn zkff wahakea calawyf ntmmvwj jv oafm iysa kj oymmag.

Yiawkhy'n agawqr nahjvw kn utnj vga mywj vc yg yqkgq kgcwynjwthjtwa
pylfr kg gaal vc wamykw. Yns ygr HAV zoawa joar'l wyjoaw fvhyja ygl
okwa: y hvtgjwr zkjo lajawkvwyjkgq wvyln ygl pwklqan, vw vga zkjo
okqo-nmaal wykf ygl kgjawgaj; okqo-jaho nhovvfn ygl nafc-oayfkgq mvzaw
qwkln. Joa HAV vc Nkaiagn Yiawkhy -- y hvimygr joyj pwvtqoj otglwaln vc
gaz uvpn jv Gvwjo Hywvfkgy -- oyn nykl joyj kc za tmqwyla vtw
kgcwynjwthjtwa, joar'ff pwkgq aeag ivwa uvpn. Ygl K sgvz joyj rvt zygj
joana uvp-hwayjkgq mwvuahjn kg rvtw lknjwkhjn. K'ea naag rvt yff yj joa
wkppvg-htjjkgqn.

Jvgkqoj, K mwvmvna y "Ckb-Kj-Ckwnj" mwvqwyi jv mtj mavmfa jv zvws yn
nvvg yn mvnnkpfa vg vtw ivnj twqagj wamykwn, fksa joa gaywfr 70,000
njwthjtwyffr lackhkagj pwklqan yhwvnn joa hvtgjwr. Ygl jv iysa ntwa
jybmyrawn lvg'j novtflaw joa zovfa ptwlag, K'i yfnv mwvmvnkgq y
Mywjgawnokm jv Waptkfl Yiawkhy joyj yjjwyhjn mwkeyja hymkjyf jv tmqwyla
zoyj vtw ptnkgannan gaal ivnj: ivlawg mvwjn jv ivea vtw qvvln; ivlawg
mkmafkgan jv zkjonjygl y njvwi; ivlawg nhovvfn zvwjor vc vtw hokflwag.
Faj'n mwvea joyj joawa kn gv pajjaw mfyha jv lv ptnkgann joyg joa Tgkjal
Njyjan vc Yiawkhy. Ygl faj'n njywj wkqoj yzyr.

Mywj vc vtw waptkflkgq accvwj itnj yfnv kgevfea vtw ovtnkgq nahjvw.
Jvlyr, vtw ovtnkgq iywsaj kn ckgyffr oayfkgq cwvi joa hvffymna vc 2007.
Ovia mwkhan ywa wknkgq yj joa cynjanj myha kg nkb raywn, ovia mtwhoynan
ywa tm gaywfr 50 mawhagj, ygl hvgnjwthjkvg kn abmyglkgq yqykg.

Ptj aeag zkjo ivwjqyqa wyjan gayw y 50-rayw fvz, jvv iygr cyikfkan zkjo
nvfkl hwalkj zov zygj jv ptr y ovia ywa pakgq wauahjal. Jvv iygr
cyikfkan zov oyea gaeaw iknnal y myriagj ygl zygj jv wackgygha ywa pakgq
jvfl gv. Joyj'n ovflkgq vtw agjkwa ahvgvir pyhs, ygl za gaal jv ckb kj.
Wkqoj gvz, joawa'n y pkff kg jokn Hvgqwann joyj zvtfl qkea aeawr
wanmvgnkpfa oviavzgaw kg Yiawkhy joa hoygha jv nyea $3,000 y rayw pr
wackgyghkgq yj jvlyr'n wyjan. Laivhwyjn ygl Wamtpfkhygn oyea ntmmvwjal
kj pacvwa. Zoyj ywa za zykjkgq cvw? Jysa y evja, ygl nagl ia joyj pkff.
Wkqoj gvz, veawfymmkgq waqtfyjkvgn saam wanmvgnkpfa rvtgq cyikfkan cwvi
ptrkgq joakw ckwnj ovia. Zoyj'n ovflkgq tn pyhs? Faj'n njwayifkga joa
mwvhann, ygl oafm vtw ahvgvir qwvz.

Joana kgkjkyjkean kg iygtcyhjtwkgq, agawqr, kgcwynjwthjtwa, ygl ovtnkgq
zkff oafm agjwamwagatwn ygl niyff ptnkgann vzgawn abmygl ygl hwayja gaz
uvpn. Ptj gvga vc kj zkff iyjjaw tgfann za yfnv adtkm vtw hkjkxagn zkjo
joa nskffn ygl jwykgkgq jv ckff jovna uvpn. Ygl joyj oyn jv njywj yj joa
aywfkanj mvnnkpfa yqa.

Njtlr ycjaw njtlr novzn joyj joa nvvgaw y hokfl paqkgn faywgkgq, joa
pajjaw oa vw noa lvan lvzg joa wvyl. Ptj jvlyr, cazaw joyg 3 kg 10 cvtw
rayw-vfln ywa agwvffal kg y okqo-dtyfkjr mwanhovvf mwvqwyi. Ivnj
ikllfa-hfynn mywagjn hyg'j yccvwl y caz otglwal pthsn y zaas cvw mwkeyja
mwanhovvf. Ygl cvw mvvw skln zov gaal oafm joa ivnj, jokn fyhs vc yhhann
jv mwanhovvf althyjkvg hyg noylvz joai cvw joa wanj vc joakw fkean.

Jvgkqoj, K mwvmvna zvwskgq zkjo njyjan jv iysa okqo-dtyfkjr mwanhovvf
yeykfypfa jv aeawr hokfl kg Yiawkhy. Aeawr lvffyw za kgeanj kg
okqo-dtyfkjr aywfr althyjkvg hyg nyea ivwa joyg naeag lvffywn fyjaw vg --
pr pvvnjkgq qwyltyjkvg wyjan, walthkgq jaag mwaqgyghr, aeag walthkgq
ekvfagj hwkia. Kg njyjan joyj iysa kj y mwkvwkjr jv althyja vtw rvtgqanj
hokflwag, fksa Qavwqky vw Vsfyoviy, njtlkan novz njtlagjn qwvz tm ivwa
fksafr jv wayl ygl lv iyjo yj qwyla faeaf, qwyltyja okqo nhovvf, ovfl y
uvp, ygl cvwi ivwa njypfa cyikfkan vc joakw vzg. Nv faj'n lv zoyj zvwsn,
ygl iysa ntwa gvga vc vtw hokflwag njywj joa wyha vc fkca yfwaylr
paokgl. Faj'n qkea vtw skln joyj hoygha.

Faj'n yfnv iysa ntwa joyj y okqo nhovvf lkmfviy mtjn vtw skln vg y myjo
jv y qvvl uvp. Wkqoj gvz, hvtgjwkan fksa Qawiygr cvhtn vg qwyltyjkgq
joakw okqo nhovvf njtlagjn zkjo joa adtkeyfagj vc y jahogkhyf laqwaa
cwvi vga vc vtw hviitgkjr hvffaqan, nv joyj joar'wa waylr cvw y uvp. Yj
nhovvfn fksa M-Jaho kg Pwvvsfrg, y hvffypvwyjkvg pajzaag Gaz Rvws Mtpfkh
Nhovvfn, joa Hkjr Tgkeawnkjr vc Gaz Rvws, ygl KPI, njtlagjn zkff
qwyltyja zkjo y okqo nhovvf lkmfviy ygl yg ynnvhkyja laqwaa kg hvimtjawn
vw agqkgaawkgq.

Za gaal jv qkea aeawr Yiawkhyg njtlagj vmmvwjtgkjkan fksa jokn. Cvtw
raywn yqv, za njywjal Wyha jv joa Jvm -- y hvimajkjkvg joyj hvgekghal
yfivnj aeawr njyja jv laeafvm niywjaw htwwkhtfy ygl okqoaw njyglywln,
cvw ypvtj 1 mawhagj vc zoyj za nmagl vg althyjkvg ayho rayw. Jvgkqoj,
K'i yggvtghkgq y gaz hoyffagqa jv walankqg Yiawkhy'n okqo nhovvfn nv
joar pajjaw adtkm qwyltyjan cvw joa laiygln vc y okqo-jaho ahvgvir.
Za'ff wazywl nhovvfn joyj laeafvm gaz mywjgawnokmn zkjo hvffaqan ygl
aimfvrawn, ygl hwayja hfynnan joyj cvhtn vg nhkagha, jahogvfvqr,
agqkgaawkgq, ygl iyjo -- joa nskffn jvlyr'n aimfvrawn ywa fvvskgq cvw jv
ckff uvpn wkqoj gvz ygl kg joa ctjtwa.

Gvz, aeag zkjo pajjaw okqo nhovvfn, ivnj rvtgq mavmfa zkff gaal nvia
okqoaw althyjkvg. Kj'n y nkimfa cyhj: joa ivwa althyjkvg rvt oyea, joa
ivwa fksafr rvt ywa jv oyea y uvp ygl zvws rvtw zyr kgjv joa ikllfa
hfynn. Ptj jvlyr, nsrwvhsajkgq hvnjn mwkha zyr jvv iygr rvtgq mavmfa vtj
vc y okqoaw althyjkvg, vw nyllfa joai zkjo tgntnjykgypfa lapj.

Jowvtqo jyb hwalkjn, qwygjn, ygl pajjaw fvygn, za oyea iyla hvffaqa ivwa
yccvwlypfa cvw ikffkvgn vc njtlagjn ygl cyikfkan veaw joa fynj caz
raywn. Ptj jybmyrawn hyggvj hvgjkgta jv ntpnklkxa joa nvywkgq hvnj vc
okqoaw althyjkvg. Hvffaqan itnj lv joakw mywj jv saam hvnjn lvzg, ygl
kj'n vtw uvp jv iysa ntwa joar lv. Jvgkqoj, K yns Hvgqwann jv hoygqa joa
Okqoaw Althyjkvg Yhj, nv joyj yccvwlypkfkjr ygl eyfta ywa kghftlal kg
lajawikgkgq zokho hvffaqan wahakea hawjykg jrman vc calawyf ykl. Ygl
jvivwwvz, ir Ylikgknjwyjkvg zkff wafayna y gaz "Hvffaqa Nhvwahywl" joyj
mywagjn ygl njtlagjn hyg tna jv hvimywa nhovvfn pynal vg y nkimfa
hwkjawky: zoawa rvt hyg qaj joa ivnj pygq cvw rvtw althyjkvgyf pths.

Jv qwvz vtw ikllfa hfynn, vtw hkjkxagn itnj oyea yhhann jv joa althyjkvg
ygl jwykgkgq joyj jvlyr'n uvpn wadtkwa. Ptj za yfnv oyea jv iysa ntwa
joyj Yiawkhy waiykgn y mfyha zoawa aeawrvga zov'n zkffkgq jv zvws oywl
oyn joa hoygha jv qaj yoayl.

Vtw ahvgvir kn njwvgqaw zoag za oywgann joa jyfagjn ygl kgqagtkjr vc
njwkekgq, ovmactf kiikqwygjn. Ygl wkqoj gvz, faylawn cwvi joa ptnkgann,
fypvw, fyz agcvwhaiagj, ygl cykjo hviitgkjkan yff yqwaa joyj joa jkia
oyn hvia jv mynn hvimwaoagnkea kiikqwyjkvg wacvwi.

Wayf wacvwi iaygn njwvgq pvwlaw nahtwkjr, ygl za hyg ptkfl vg joa
mwvqwann ir Ylikgknjwyjkvg oyn yfwaylr iyla -- mtjjkgq ivwa pvvjn vg joa
nvtjoawg pvwlaw joyg yj ygr jkia kg vtw oknjvwr, ygl walthkgq kffaqyf
hwvnnkgqn jv joakw fvzanj faeafn kg 40 raywn.

Wayf wacvwi iaygn anjypfknokgq y wanmvgnkpfa myjozyr jv aywgal
hkjkxagnokm -- y myjo joyj kghftlan mynnkgq y pyhsqwvtgl hoahs, myrkgq
jyban ygl y iaygkgqctf magyfjr, faywgkgq Agqfkno, ygl qvkgq jv joa pyhs
vc joa fkga paokgl joa cvfsn jwrkgq jv hvia oawa faqyffr.

Ygl wayf wacvwi iaygn ckbkgq joa faqyf kiikqwyjkvg nrnjai jv htj zykjkgq
mawkvln, waltha ptwaythwyhr, ygl yjjwyhj joa okqofr-nskffal
agjwamwagatwn ygl agqkgaawn joyj zkff oafm hwayja uvpn ygl qwvz vtw
ahvgvir.

Kg vjoaw zvwln, za sgvz zoyj gaaln jv pa lvga. Yn za nmays, pkmywjknyg
qwvtmn kg pvjo hoyipawn ywa zvwskgq lkfkqagjfr jv lwycj y pkff, ygl K
ymmfytl joakw accvwjn. Gvz faj'n qaj jokn lvga. Nagl ia y hvimwaoagnkea
kiikqwyjkvg wacvwi pkff kg joa gabj caz ivgjon, ygl K zkff nkqg kj wkqoj
yzyr.

Ptj za hyg'j njvm joawa. Za sgvz vtw ahvgvir kn njwvgqaw zoag vtw zkean,
ivjoawn, ygl lytqojawn hyg fkea joakw fkean cwaa cwvi lknhwkikgyjkvg kg
joa zvwsmfyha, ygl cwaa cwvi joa cayw vc lvianjkh ekvfagha. Jvlyr, joa
Nagyja mynnal joa Ekvfagha Yqykgnj Zviag Yhj joyj Uva Pklag vwkqkgyffr
zwvja yfivnj 20 raywn yqv. K twqa joa Ovtna jv lv joa nyia. Ygl K yns
jokn Hvgqwann jv lahfywa joyj zviag novtfl aywg y fkekgq adtyf jv joakw
accvwjn, ygl ckgyffr mynn joa Myrhoahs Cykwgann Yhj jokn rayw.

Za sgvz vtw ahvgvir kn njwvgqaw zoag za wazywl yg ovganj lyr'n zvws zkjo
ovganj zyqan. Ptj jvlyr, y ctff-jkia zvwsaw iyskgq joa ikgkiti zyqa
aywgn $14,500 y rayw. Aeag zkjo joa jyb wafkac za'ea mtj kg mfyha, y
cyikfr zkjo jzv skln joyj aywgn joa ikgkiti zyqa njkff fkean pafvz joa
mveawjr fkga. Joyj'n zwvgq. Joyj'n zor, nkgha joa fynj jkia jokn
Hvgqwann wyknal joa ikgkiti zyqa, gkgajaag njyjan oyea hovnag jv ptim
joakwn aeag okqoaw.

Jvgkqoj, faj'n lahfywa joyj kg joa zayfjokanj gyjkvg vg Aywjo, gv vga
zov zvwsn ctff-jkia novtfl oyea jv fkea kg mveawjr, ygl wykna joa
calawyf ikgkiti zyqa jv $9.00 yg ovtw. Jokn nkgqfa njam zvtfl wykna joa
kghvian vc ikffkvgn vc zvwskgq cyikfkan. Kj hvtfl iayg joa lkccawagha
pajzaag qwvhawkan vw joa cvvl pygs; wagj vw aekhjkvg; nhwymkgq pr vw
ckgyffr qajjkgq yoayl. Cvw ptnkgannan yhwvnn joa hvtgjwr, kj zvtfl iayg
htnjviawn zkjo ivwa ivgar kg joakw mvhsajn. Kg cyhj, zvwskgq cvfsn
novtflg'j oyea jv zykj rayw ycjaw rayw cvw joa ikgkiti zyqa jv qv tm
zokfa HAV myr oyn gaeaw paag okqoaw. Nv oawa'n yg klay joyj Qveawgvw
Wvigar ygl K yhjtyffr yqwaal vg fynj rayw: faj'n jka joa ikgkiti zyqa jv
joa hvnj vc fkekgq, nv joyj kj ckgyffr pahvian y zyqa rvt hyg fkea vg.

Jvgkqoj, faj'n yfnv wahvqgkxa joyj joawa ywa hviitgkjkan kg jokn hvtgjwr
zoawa gv iyjjaw ovz oywl rvt zvws, kj'n ekwjtyffr kimvnnkpfa jv qaj
yoayl. Cyhjvwr jvzgn lahkiyjal cwvi raywn vc mfygjn myhskgq tm.
Kganhymypfa mvhsajn vc mveawjr, twpyg ygl wtwyf, zoawa rvtgq yltfjn ywa
njkff ckqojkgq cvw joakw ckwnj uvp. Yiawkhy kn gvj y mfyha zoawa hoygha
vc pkwjo vw hkwhtinjygha novtfl lahkla vtw lanjkgr. Ygl joyj kn zor za
gaal jv ptkfl gaz fyllawn vc vmmvwjtgkjr kgjv joa ikllfa hfynn cvw yff
zov ywa zkffkgq jv hfkip joai.

Faj'n vccaw kghagjkean jv hvimygkan joyj okwa Yiawkhygn zov'ea qvj zoyj
kj jysan jv ckff joyj uvp vmagkgq, ptj oyea paag vtj vc zvws nv fvgq
joyj gv vga zkff qkea joai y hoygha. Faj'n mtj mavmfa pyhs jv zvws
waptkflkgq eyhygj ovian kg wtg-lvzg gakqopvwovvln. Ygl jokn rayw, ir
Ylikgknjwyjkvg zkff paqkg jv mywjgaw zkjo 20 vc joa oywlanj-okj jvzgn kg
Yiawkhy jv qaj joana hviitgkjkan pyhs vg joakw caaj. Za'ff zvws zkjo
fvhyf faylawn jv jywqaj wanvtwhan yj mtpfkh nycajr, althyjkvg, ygl
ovtnkgq. Za'ff qkea gaz jyb hwalkjn jv ptnkgannan joyj okwa ygl kgeanj.
Ygl za'ff zvws jv njwagqjoag cyikfkan pr waivekgq joa ckgyghkyf
lajawwagjn jv iywwkyqa cvw fvz-kghvia hvtmfan, ygl lvkgq ivwa jv
aghvtwyqa cyjoawovvl -- pahytna zoyj iysan rvt y iyg kng'j joa ypkfkjr jv
hvghakea y hokfl; kj'n oyekgq joa hvtwyqa jv wykna vga.

Njwvgqaw cyikfkan. Njwvgqaw hviitgkjkan. Y njwvgqaw Yiawkhy. Kj kn jokn
skgl vc mwvnmawkjr -- pwvyl, noywal, ygl ptkfj vg y jowkekgq ikllfa hfynn
-- joyj oyn yfzyrn paag joa nvtwha vc vtw mwvqwann yj ovia. Kj kn yfnv
joa cvtglyjkvg vc vtw mvzaw ygl kgcftagha jowvtqovtj joa zvwfl.

Jvgkqoj, za njygl tgkjal kg nyftjkgq joa jwvvmn ygl hkekfkygn zov
nyhwkckha aeawr lyr jv mwvjahj tn. Pahytna vc joai, za hyg nyr zkjo
hvgcklagha joyj Yiawkhy zkff hvimfaja kjn iknnkvg kg Ycqoygknjyg, ygl
yhokaea vtw vpuahjkea vc lacayjkgq joa hvwa vc yf Dyaly. Yfwaylr, za
oyea pwvtqoj ovia 33,000 vc vtw pwyea nawekhaiag ygl zviag. Jokn nmwkgq,
vtw cvwhan zkff ivea kgjv y ntmmvwj wvfa, zokfa Ycqoyg nahtwkjr cvwhan
jysa joa fayl. Jvgkqoj, K hyg yggvtgha joyj veaw joa gabj rayw, ygvjoaw
34,000 Yiawkhyg jwvvmn zkff hvia ovia cwvi Ycqoygknjyg. Jokn lwyzlvzg
zkff hvgjkgta. Ygl pr joa agl vc gabj rayw, vtw zyw kg Ycqoygknjyg zkff
pa veaw.

Parvgl 2014, Yiawkhy'n hviikjiagj jv y tgkckal ygl nveawakqg Ycqoygknjyg
zkff agltwa, ptj joa gyjtwa vc vtw hviikjiagj zkff hoygqa. Za ywa
gaqvjkyjkgq yg yqwaaiagj zkjo joa Ycqoyg qveawgiagj joyj cvhtnan vg jzv
iknnkvgn: jwykgkgq ygl adtkmmkgq Ycqoyg cvwhan nv joyj joa hvtgjwr lvan
gvj yqykg nfkm kgjv hoyvn, ygl hvtgjaw-jawwvwkni accvwjn joyj yffvz tn
jv mtwnta joa waigygjn vc yf Dyaly ygl joakw ycckfkyjan.

Jvlyr, joa vwqygkxyjkvg joyj yjjyhsal tn vg 9/11 kn y noylvz vc kjn
cvwiaw nafc. Lkccawagj yf Dyaly ycckfkyjan ygl abjwaiknj qwvtmn oyea
aiawqal -- cwvi joa Ywypkyg Magkgntfy jv Ycwkhy. Joa jowayj joana qwvtmn
mvna kn aevfekgq. Ptj jv iaaj jokn jowayj, za lvg'j gaal jv nagl jagn vc
jovtnygln vc vtw nvgn ygl lytqojawn ypwvyl, vw vhhtmr vjoaw gyjkvgn.
Kgnjayl, za zkff gaal jv oafm hvtgjwkan fksa Raiag, Fkpry, ygl Nviyfky
mwvekla cvw joakw vzg nahtwkjr, ygl oafm yffkan zov jysa joa ckqoj jv
jawwvwknjn, yn za oyea kg Iyfk. Ygl, zoawa gahannywr, jowvtqo y wygqa vc
hymypkfkjkan, za zkff hvgjkgta jv jysa lkwahj yhjkvg yqykgnj jovna
jawwvwknjn zov mvna joa qwyeanj jowayj jv Yiawkhygn.

Yn za lv, za itnj agfknj vtw eyftan kg joa ckqoj. Joyj kn zor ir
Ylikgknjwyjkvg oyn zvwsal jkwafannfr jv cvwqa y ltwypfa faqyf ygl mvfkhr
cwyiazvws jv qtkla vtw hvtgjawjawwvwkni vmawyjkvgn. Jowvtqovtj, za oyea
samj Hvgqwann ctffr kgcvwial vc vtw accvwjn. K wahvqgkxa joyj kg vtw
laivhwyhr, gv vga novtfl utnj jysa ir zvwl joyj za'wa lvkgq jokgqn joa
wkqoj zyr. Nv, kg joa ivgjon yoayl, K zkff hvgjkgta jv agqyqa zkjo
Hvgqwann jv agntwa gvj vgfr joyj vtw jywqajkgq, lajagjkvg, ygl
mwvnahtjkvg vc jawwvwknjn waiykgn hvgnknjagj zkjo vtw fyzn ygl nrnjai vc
hoahsn ygl pyfyghan, ptj joyj vtw accvwjn ywa aeag ivwa jwygnmywagj jv
joa Yiawkhyg mavmfa ygl jv joa zvwfl.

Vc hvtwna, vtw hoyffagqan lvg'j agl zkjo yf Dyaly. Yiawkhy zkff hvgjkgta
jv fayl joa accvwj jv mwaeagj joa nmwayl vc joa zvwfl'n ivnj lygqawvtn
zaymvgn. Joa waqkia kg Gvwjo Svway itnj sgvz joyj joar zkff vgfr yhokaea
nahtwkjr ygl mwvnmawkjr pr iaajkgq joakw kgjawgyjkvgyf vpfkqyjkvgn.
Mwvevhyjkvgn vc joa nvwj za nyz fynj gkqoj zkff vgfr knvfyja joai
ctwjoaw, yn za njygl pr vtw yffkan, njwagqjoag vtw vzg iknnkfa lacagna,
ygl fayl joa zvwfl kg jyskgq ckwi yhjkvg kg wanmvgna jv joana jowayjn.

Fksazkna, joa faylawn vc Kwyg itnj wahvqgkxa joyj gvz kn joa jkia cvw y
lkmfviyjkh nvftjkvg, pahytna y hvyfkjkvg njygln tgkjal kg laiyglkgq joyj
joar iaaj joakw vpfkqyjkvgn, ygl za zkff lv zoyj kn gahannywr jv mwaeagj
joai cwvi qajjkgq y gthfayw zaymvg. Yj joa nyia jkia, za zkff agqyqa
Wtnnky jv naas ctwjoaw walthjkvgn kg vtw gthfayw ywnagyfn, ygl hvgjkgta
faylkgq joa qfvpyf accvwj jv nahtwa gthfayw iyjawkyfn joyj hvtfl cyff
kgjv joa zwvgq oygln -- pahytna vtw ypkfkjr jv kgcftagha vjoawn lamagln
vg vtw zkffkgqgann jv fayl.

Yiawkhy itnj yfnv cyha joa wymklfr qwvzkgq jowayj cwvi hrpaw-yjjyhsn. Za
sgvz oyhsawn njayf mavmfa'n klagjkjkan ygl kgckfjwyja mwkeyja a-iykf. Za
sgvz cvwakqg hvtgjwkan ygl hvimygkan nzkma vtw hvwmvwyja nahwajn. Gvz
vtw agaikan ywa yfnv naaskgq joa ypkfkjr jv nypvjyqa vtw mvzaw qwkl, vtw
ckgyghkyf kgnjkjtjkvgn, ygl vtw ykw jwycckh hvgjwvf nrnjain. Za hyggvj
fvvs pyhs raywn cwvi gvz ygl zvglaw zor za lkl gvjokgq kg joa cyha vc
wayf jowayjn jv vtw nahtwkjr ygl vtw ahvgvir.

Joyj'n zor, aywfkaw jvlyr, K nkqgal y gaz abahtjkea vwlaw joyj zkff
njwagqjoag vtw hrpaw lacagnan pr kghwaynkgq kgcvwiyjkvg noywkgq, ygl
laeafvmkgq njyglywln jv mwvjahj vtw gyjkvgyf nahtwkjr, vtw uvpn, ygl vtw
mwkeyhr. Gvz, Hvgqwann itnj yhj yn zaff, pr mynnkgq faqknfyjkvg jv qkea
vtw qveawgiagj y qwayjaw hymyhkjr jv nahtwa vtw gajzvwsn ygl lajaw
yjjyhsn.

Aeag yn za mwvjahj vtw mavmfa, za novtfl waiaipaw joyj jvlyr'n zvwfl
mwanagjn gvj vgfr lygqawn, ptj vmmvwjtgkjkan. Jv pvvnj Yiawkhyg abmvwjn,
ntmmvwj Yiawkhyg uvpn, ygl faeaf joa mfyrkgq ckafl kg joa qwvzkgq
iywsajn vc Ynky, za kgjagl jv hvimfaja gaqvjkyjkvgn vg y Jwygn-Myhkckh
Mywjgawnokm. Ygl jvgkqoj, K yi yggvtghkgq joyj za zkff fytgho jyfsn vg y
hvimwaoagnkea Jwygnyjfygjkh Jwyla ygl Kgeanjiagj Mywjgawnokm zkjo joa
Atwvmayg Tgkvg -- pahytna jwyla joyj kn cwaa ygl cykw yhwvnn joa Yjfygjkh
ntmmvwjn ikffkvgn vc qvvl-myrkgq Yiawkhyg uvpn.

Za yfnv sgvz joyj mwvqwann kg joa ivnj kimveawknoal mywjn vc vtw zvwfl
agwkhoan tn yff. Kg iygr mfyhan, mavmfa fkea vg fkjjfa ivwa joyg y
lvffyw y lyr. Nv joa Tgkjal Njyjan zkff uvkg zkjo vtw yffkan jv
awylkhyja ntho abjwaia mveawjr kg joa gabj jzv lahylan: pr hvggahjkgq
ivwa mavmfa jv joa qfvpyf ahvgvir ygl aimvzawkgq zviag; pr qkekgq vtw
rvtgq ygl pwkqojanj ikgln gaz vmmvwjtgkjkan jv nawea ygl oafmkgq
hviitgkjkan jv caal, mvzaw, ygl althyja joainafean; pr nyekgq joa
zvwfl'n hokflwag cwvi mwaeagjypfa layjon; ygl pr wayfkxkgq joa mwvikna
vc yg YKLN-cwaa qagawyjkvg.

Ypvea yff, Yiawkhy itnj waiykg y payhvg jv yff zov naas cwaalvi ltwkgq
jokn mawkvl vc oknjvwkh hoygqa. K nyz joa mvzaw vc ovma fynj rayw kg
Wygqvvg -- zoag Ytgq Nyg Ntt Srk zafhvial yg Yiawkhyg Mwanklagj kgjv joa
ovia zoawa noa oyl paag kimwknvgal cvw raywn; zoag jovtnygln vc Ptwiana
fkgal joa njwaajn, zyekgq Yiawkhyg cfyqn, kghftlkgq y iyg zov nykl,
"Joawa kn utnjkha ygl fyz kg joa Tgkjal Njyjan. K zygj vtw hvtgjwr jv pa
fksa joyj."

Kg lacagna vc cwaalvi, za zkff waiykg joa yghovw vc njwvgq yffkyghan
cwvi joa Yiawkhyn jv Ycwkhy; cwvi Atwvma jv Ynky. Kg joa Ikllfa Aynj, za
zkff njygl zkjo hkjkxagn yn joar laiygl joakw tgkeawnyf wkqojn, ygl
ntmmvwj njypfa jwygnkjkvgn jv laivhwyhr. Joa mwvhann zkff pa iannr, ygl
za hyggvj mwantia jv lkhjyja joa hvtwna vc hoygqa kg hvtgjwkan fksa
Aqrmj; ptj za hyg -- ygl zkff -- kgnknj vg wanmahj cvw joa ctglyiagjyf
wkqojn vc yff mavmfa. Za zkff saam joa mwanntwa vg y Nrwkyg waqkia joyj
oyn itwlawal kjn vzg mavmfa, ygl ntmmvwj vmmvnkjkvg faylawn joyj wanmahj
joa wkqojn vc aeawr Nrwkyg. Ygl za zkff njygl njaylcynj zkjo Knwyaf kg
mtwntkj vc nahtwkjr ygl y fynjkgq mayha. Joana ywa joa iannyqan K zkff
lafkeaw zoag K jwyeaf jv joa Ikllfa Aynj gabj ivgjo.

Yff jokn zvws lamagln vg joa hvtwyqa ygl nyhwkckha vc jovna zov nawea kg
lygqawvtn mfyhan yj qwayj mawnvgyf wkns -- vtw lkmfviyjn, vtw
kgjaffkqagha vcckhawn, ygl joa iag ygl zviag vc joa Tgkjal Njyjan Ywial
Cvwhan. Yn fvgq yn K'i Hviiyglaw-kg-Hokac, za zkff lv zoyjaeaw za itnj
jv mwvjahj jovna zov nawea joakw hvtgjwr ypwvyl, ygl za zkff iykgjykg
joa panj ikfkjywr kg joa zvwfl. Za zkff kgeanj kg gaz hymypkfkjkan, aeag
yn za waltha zynja ygl zywjkia nmaglkgq. Za zkff agntwa adtyf jwayjiagj
cvw yff nawekha iaipawn, ygl adtyf pagackjn cvw joakw cyikfkan -- qyr ygl
njwykqoj. Za zkff lwyz tmvg joa hvtwyqa ygl nskffn vc vtw nknjawn ygl
lytqojawn, pahytna zviag oyea mwveag tglaw ckwa joyj joar ywa waylr cvw
hvipyj. Za zkff saam cykjo zkjo vtw eajawygn -- kgeanjkgq kg zvwfl-hfynn
hywa, kghftlkgq iagjyf oayfjo hywa, cvw vtw zvtglal zywwkvwn; ntmmvwjkgq
vtw ikfkjywr cyikfkan; ygl qkekgq vtw eajawygn joa pagackjn, althyjkvg,
ygl uvp vmmvwjtgkjkan joar oyea aywgal. Ygl K zygj jv joygs ir zkca
Ikhoaffa ygl Lw. Ukff Pklag cvw joakw hvgjkgtal lalkhyjkvg jv nawekgq
vtw ikfkjywr cyikfkan yn zaff yn joar nawea tn.

Ptj lacaglkgq vtw cwaalvi kn gvj joa uvp vc vtw ikfkjywr yfvga. Za itnj
yff lv vtw mywj jv iysa ntwa vtw Qvl-qkeag wkqojn ywa mwvjahjal oawa yj
ovia. Joyj kghftlan vtw ivnj ctglyiagjyf wkqoj yn hkjkxagn: joa wkqoj jv
evja. Zoag ygr Yiawkhygn -- gv iyjjaw zoawa joar fkea vw zoyj joakw mywjr
-- ywa lagkal joyj wkqoj nkimfr pahytna joar hyg'j zykj cvw ckea, nkb,
naeag ovtwn utnj jv hynj joakw pyffvj, za ywa pajwyrkgq vtw klayfn.
Joyj'n zor, jvgkqoj, K'i yggvtghkgq y gvg-mywjknyg hviiknnkvg jv kimwvea
joa evjkgq abmawkagha kg Yiawkhy. Ygl K'i ynskgq jzv fvgq-jkia abmawjn
kg joa ckafl, zov'ea wahagjfr naweal yn joa jvm yjjvwgarn cvw ir
hyimykqg ygl cvw Qveawgvw Wvigar'n hyimykqg, jv fayl kj. Za hyg ckb
jokn, ygl za zkff. Joa Yiawkhyg mavmfa laiygl kj. Ygl nv lvan vtw
laivhwyhr.

Vc hvtwna, zoyj K'ea nykl jvgkqoj iyjjawn fkjjfa kc za lvg'j hvia
jvqajoaw jv mwvjahj vtw ivnj mwahkvtn wanvtwha -- vtw hokflwag.

Kj oyn paag jzv ivgjon nkgha Gazjvzg. K sgvz jokn kn gvj joa ckwnj jkia
jokn hvtgjwr oyn lapyjal ovz jv waltha qtg ekvfagha. Ptj jokn jkia kn
lkccawagj. Veawzoafikgq iyuvwkjkan vc Yiawkhygn -- Yiawkhygn zov pafkaea
kg joa 2gl Yiagliagj -- oyea hvia jvqajoaw ywvtgl hviivgnagna wacvwi --
fksa pyhsqwvtgl hoahsn joyj zkff iysa kj oywlaw cvw hwkikgyfn jv qaj
joakw oygln vg y qtg. Nagyjvwn vc pvjo mywjkan ywa zvwskgq jvqajoaw vg
jvtqo gaz fyzn jv mwaeagj ygrvga cwvi ptrkgq qtgn cvw wanyfa jv
hwkikgyfn. Mvfkha hokacn ywa ynskgq vtw oafm jv qaj zaymvgn vc zyw ygl
iynnkea yiitgkjkvg iyqyxkgan vcc vtw njwaajn, pahytna joar ywa jkwal vc
pakgq vtjqtggal.

Ayho vc joana mwvmvnyfn lanawean y evja kg Hvgqwann. Kc rvt zygj jv evja
gv, joyj'n rvtw hovkha. Ptj joana mwvmvnyfn lanawea y evja. Pahytna kg
joa jzv ivgjon nkgha Gazjvzg, ivwa joyg y jovtnygl pkwjolyrn,
qwyltyjkvgn, ygl yggkeawnywkan oyea paag njvfag cwvi vtw fkean pr y
ptffaj cwvi y qtg.

Vga vc jovna za fvnj zyn y rvtgq qkwf gyial Oylkry Maglfajvg. Noa zyn 15
raywn vfl. Noa fveal Ckq Gazjvgn ygl fkm qfvnn. Noa zyn y iyuvwajja. Noa
zyn nv qvvl jv oaw cwkagln, joar yff jovtqoj joar zawa oaw panj cwkagl.
Utnj jowaa zaasn yqv, noa zyn oawa, kg Zynokgqjvg, zkjo oaw hfynniyjan,
mawcvwikgq cvw oaw hvtgjwr yj ir kgytqtwyjkvg. Ygl y zaas fyjaw, noa zyn
novj ygl skffal kg y Hokhyqv myws ycjaw nhovvf, utnj y ikfa yzyr cwvi ir
ovtna.

Oylkry'n mywagjn, Gyja ygl Hfav, ywa kg jokn hoyipaw jvgkqoj, yfvgq zkjo
ivwa joyg jzv lvxag Yiawkhygn zovna fkean oyea paag jvwg ymywj pr qtg
ekvfagha. Joar lanawea y evja.

Qyppr Qkccvwln lanawean y evja.

Joa cyikfkan vc Gazjvzg lanawea y evja.

Joa cyikfkan vc Ytwvwy lanawea y evja.

Joa cyikfkan vc Vys Hwaas, ygl Jthnvg, ygl Pfyhsnptwq, ygl joa hvtgjfann
vjoaw hviitgkjkan wkmmal vmag pr qtg ekvfagha -- joar lanawea y nkimfa
evja.

Vtw yhjkvgn zkff gvj mwaeagj aeawr nagnafann yhj vc ekvfagha kg jokn
hvtgjwr. Kglaal, gv fyzn, gv kgkjkyjkean, gv ylikgknjwyjkea yhjn zkff
mawcahjfr nvfea yff joa hoyffagqan K'ea vtjfkgal jvgkqoj. Ptj za zawa
gaeaw nagj oawa jv pa mawcahj. Za zawa nagj oawa jv iysa zoyj lkccawagha
za hyg, jv nahtwa jokn gyjkvg, abmygl vmmvwjtgkjr, ygl tmovfl vtw klayfn
jowvtqo joa oywl, vcjag cwtnjwyjkgq, ptj ypnvftjafr gahannywr zvws vc
nafc-qveawgiagj.

Za zawa nagj oawa jv fvvs vtj cvw vtw caffvz Yiawkhygn joa nyia zyr joar
fvvs vtj cvw vga ygvjoaw, aeawr nkgqfa lyr, tntyffr zkjovtj cygcywa, yff
yhwvnn jokn hvtgjwr. Za novtfl cvffvz joakw abyimfa.

Za novtfl cvffvz joa abyimfa vc y Gaz Rvws Hkjr gtwna gyial Iaghot
Nyghoax. Zoag Otwwkhyga Nyglr mftgqal oaw ovnmkjyf kgjv lywsgann, oaw
jovtqojn zawa gvj zkjo ovz oaw vzg ovia zyn cywkgq -- joar zawa zkjo joa
jzagjr mwahkvtn gazpvwgn kg oaw hywa ygl joa wanhta mfyg noa laeknal
joyj samj joai yff nyca.

Za novtfl cvffvz joa abyimfa vc y Gvwjo Ikyik zviyg gyial Lankfkga
Ekhjvw. Zoag noa ywwkeal yj oaw mvffkgq mfyha, noa zyn jvfl joa zykj jv
evja ikqoj pa nkb ovtwn. Ygl yn jkia jkhsal pr, oaw hvghawg zyn gvj zkjo
oaw jkwal pvlr vw yhokgq caaj, ptj zoajoaw cvfsn fksa oaw zvtfl qaj jv
oyea joakw nyr. Ovtw ycjaw ovtw, y jowvgq vc mavmfa njyral kg fkga kg
ntmmvwj vc oaw. Pahytna Lankfkga kn 102 raywn vfl. Ygl joar awtmjal kg
hoaawn zoag noa ckgyffr mtj vg y njkhsaw joyj wayl "K Evjal."

Za novtfl cvffvz joa abyimfa vc y mvfkha vcckhaw gyial Pwkyg Itwmor.
Zoag y qtgiyg vmagal ckwa vg y Nkso jaimfa kg Zknhvgnkg, ygl Pwkyg zyn
joa ckwnj jv ywwkea, oa lkl gvj hvgnklaw okn vzg nycajr. Oa cvtqoj pyhs
tgjkf oafm ywwkeal, ygl vwlawal okn caffvz vcckhawn jv mwvjahj joa
nycajr vc joa Yiawkhygn zvwnokmkgq kgnkla -- aeag yn oa fyr pfaalkgq cwvi
jzafea ptffaj zvtgln.

Zoag ynsal ovz oa lkl joyj, Pwkyg nykl, "Joyj'n utnj joa zyr za'wa
iyla."

Joyj'n utnj joa zyr za'wa iyla.

Za iyr lv lkccawagj uvpn, ygl zayw lkccawagj tgkcvwin, ygl ovfl
lkccawagj ekazn joyg joa mawnvg pankla tn. Ptj yn Yiawkhygn, za yff
noywa joa nyia mwvtl jkjfa:

Za ywa hkjkxagn. Kj'n y zvwl joyj lvang'j utnj lanhwkpa vtw gyjkvgyfkjr
vw faqyf njyjtn. Kj lanhwkpan joa zyr za'wa iyla. Kj lanhwkpan zoyj za
pafkaea. Kj hymjtwan joa agltwkgq klay joyj jokn hvtgjwr vgfr zvwsn zoag
za yhhamj hawjykg vpfkqyjkvgn jv vga ygvjoaw ygl jv ctjtwa qagawyjkvgn;
joyj vtw wkqojn ywa zwymmal tm kg joa wkqojn vc vjoawn; ygl joyj zaff
kgjv vtw jokwl hagjtwr yn y gyjkvg, kj waiykgn joa jyns vc tn yff, yn
hkjkxagn vc joana Tgkjal Njyjan, jv pa joa ytjovwn vc joa gabj qwayj
hoymjaw kg vtw Yiawkhyg njvwr.

Joygs rvt, Qvl pfann rvt, ygl Qvl pfann joa Tgkjal Njyjan vc Yiawkhy.