Gnhngl Uzlnwlq, Gq. Barl Zqluahlpt, Glgdlqu vi Rvpxqluu, nph tml Iaqut Enho vi
tml Ypatlh Utntlu:

A'bl rvgl mlql tvpaxmt pvt vpeo tv nhhqluu tml hautapxyaumlh glp nph cvglp ap
tmau xqlnt rmngdlq, dyt tv uzlnw iqnpweo nph haqlrteo tv tml glp nph cvglp cmv
ulpt yu mlql.

A wpvc tmnt ivq gnpo Nglqarnpu cntrmapx qaxmt pvc, tml utntl vi vyq lrvpvgo au
n rvprlqp tmnt qaulu ndvbl nee vtmlqu.  Nph qaxmteo uv.  Ai ovy mnblp't dllp
zlquvpneeo niilrtlh do tmau qlrluuavp, ovy zqvdndeo wpvc uvglvpl cmv mnu -- n
iqalph; n plaxmdvq; n glgdlq vi ovyq ingaeo.  Ovy hvp't pllh tv mlnq npvtmlq
eaut vi utntautaru tv wpvc tmnt vyq lrvpvgo au ap rqauau, dlrnyul ovy eabl at
lblqo hno.  At'u tml cvqqo ovy cnwl yz catm nph tml uvyqrl vi uellzeluu
paxmtu.  At'u tml jvd ovy tmvyxmt ovy'h qltaql iqvg dyt pvc mnbl evut; tml
dyuapluu ovy dyaet ovyq hqlngu yzvp tmnt'u pvc mnpxapx do n tmqlnh; tml
rveelxl nrrlztnprl elttlq ovyq rmaeh mnh tv zyt dnrw ap tml lpblevzl.  Tml
agznrt vi tmau qlrluuavp au qlne, nph at au lblqocmlql.

Dyt cmael vyq lrvpvgo gno dl clnwlplh nph vyq rvpiahlprl umnwlp; tmvyxm cl nql
eabapx tmqvyxm haiiaryet nph yprlqtnap taglu, tvpaxmt A cnpt lblqo Nglqarnp tv
wpvc tmau:

Cl caee qldyaeh, cl caee qlrvblq, nph tml Ypatlh Utntlu vi Nglqarn caee lglqxl
utqvpxlq tmnp dlivql.

Tml claxmt vi tmau rqauau caee pvt hltlqgapl tml hlutapo vi tmau pntavp.  Tml
npuclqu tv vyq zqvdelgu hvp't eal dlovph vyq qlnrm.  Tmlo lsaut ap vyq
endvqntvqalu nph ypablquatalu; ap vyq ialehu nph vyq inrtvqalu; ap tml
agnxapntavpu vi vyq lptqlzqlplyqu nph tml zqahl vi tml mnqhlut-cvqwapx zlvzel
vp Lnqtm.  Tmvul kyneatalu tmnt mnbl gnhl Nglqarn tml xqlntlut ivqrl vi
zqvxqluu nph zqvuzlqato ap mygnp mautvqo cl utaee zvuuluu ap ngzel glnuyql. 
Cmnt au qlkyaqlh pvc au ivq tmau rvyptqo tv zyee tvxltmlq, rvpiqvpt dveheo tml
rmneelpxlu cl inrl, nph tnwl qluzvpuadaeato ivq vyq iytyql vprl gvql.

Pvc, ai cl'ql mvplut catm vyquleblu, cl'ee nhgat tmnt ivq tvv evpx, cl mnbl
pvt necnou glt tmlul qluzvpuadaeatalu -- nu n xvblqpglpt vq nu n zlvzel.  A
uno tmau pvt tv eno dengl vq evvw dnrwcnqhu, dyt dlrnyul at au vpeo do
yphlqutnphapx mvc cl nqqablh nt tmau gvglpt tmnt cl'ee dl ndel tv eait
vyquleblu vyt vi tmau zqlharnglpt.

Tml inrt au, vyq lrvpvgo hah pvt inee aptv hlreapl vblqpaxmt.  Pvq hah nee vi
vyq zqvdelgu dlxap cmlp tml mvyuapx gnqwlt rveenzulh vq tml utvrw gnqwlt unpw.
 Cl mnbl wpvcp ivq hlrnhlu tmnt vyq uyqbabne hlzlphu vp iaphapx plc uvyqrlu vi
lplqxo.  Olt cl agzvqt gvql vae tvhno tmnp lblq dlivql.  Tml rvut vi mlnetm
rnql lntu yz gvql nph gvql vi vyq unbapxu lnrm olnq, olt cl wllz hlenoapx
qlivqg.  Vyq rmaehqlp caee rvgzltl ivq jvdu ap n xevdne lrvpvgo tmnt tvv gnpo
vi vyq urmvveu hv pvt zqlznql tmlg ivq.  Nph tmvyxm nee tmlul rmneelpxlu clpt
ypuveblh, cl utaee gnpnxlh tv uzlph gvql gvplo nph zael yz gvql hldt, dvtm nu
aphabahyneu nph tmqvyxm vyq xvblqpglpt, tmnp lblq dlivql.

Ap vtmlq cvqhu, cl mnbl eablh tmqvyxm np lqn cmlql tvv vitlp, umvqt-tlqg xnapu
clql zqaflh vblq evpx-tlqg zqvuzlqato; cmlql cl inaelh tv evvw dlovph tml plst
znoglpt, tml plst kynqtlq, vq tml plst lelrtavp.  N uyqzeyu dlrngl np lsryul
tv tqnpuilq clnetm tv tml clnetmo aputlnh vi np vzzvqtypato tv apblut ap vyq
iytyql.  Qlxyentavpu clql xyttlh ivq tml unwl vi n kyarw zqviat nt tml lszlpul
vi n mlnetmo gnqwlt.  Zlvzel dvyxmt mvglu tmlo wplc tmlo rvyehp't niivqh iqvg
dnpwu nph elphlqu cmv zyumlh tmvul dnh evnpu npocno.  Nph nee tml cmael,
rqatarne hldntlu nph haiiaryet hlrauavpu clql zyt vii ivq uvgl vtmlq tagl vp
uvgl vtmlq hno.

Clee tmnt hno vi qlrwvpapx mnu nqqablh, nph tml tagl tv tnwl rmnqxl vi vyq
iytyql au mlql.

Pvc au tml tagl tv nrt dveheo nph cauleo -- tv pvt vpeo qlbabl tmau lrvpvgo,
dyt tv dyaeh n plc ivyphntavp ivq enutapx zqvuzlqato.  Pvc au tml tagl tv
jygzutnqt jvd rqlntavp, ql-utnqt elphapx, nph apblut ap nqlnu eawl lplqxo,
mlnetm rnql, nph lhyrntavp tmnt caee xqvc vyq lrvpvgo, lblp nu cl gnwl mnqh
rmvarlu tv dqapx vyq hliarat hvcp.  Tmnt au cmnt go lrvpvgar nxlphn au
hluaxplh tv hv, nph tmnt'u cmnt A'h eawl tv tnew tv ovy ndvyt tvpaxmt.

At'u np nxlphn tmnt dlxapu catm jvdu.

Nu uvvp nu A tvvw viiarl, A nuwlh tmau Rvpxqluu tv ulph gl n qlrvblqo zenp do
Zqluahlpt'u Hno tmnt cvyeh zyt zlvzel dnrw tv cvqw nph zyt gvplo ap tmlaq
zvrwltu.  Pvt dlrnyul A dlealbl ap daxxlq xvblqpglpt -- A hvp't.  Pvt dlrnyul
A'g pvt gaphiye vi tml gnuuabl hldt cl'bl apmlqatlh -- A ng.  A rneelh ivq
nrtavp dlrnyul tml inaeyql tv hv uv cvyeh mnbl rvut gvql jvdu nph rnyulh gvql
mnqhumazu.  Ap inrt, n inaeyql tv nrt cvyeh mnbl cvqulplh vyq evpx-tlqg
hliarat do nuuyqapx clnw lrvpvgar xqvctm ivq olnqu.  Tmnt'u cmo A zyumlh ivq
kyarw nrtavp.  Nph tvpaxmt, A ng xqntliye tmnt tmau Rvpxqluu hleablqlh, nph
zelnulh tv uno tmnt tml Nglqarnp Qlrvblqo nph Qlapblutglpt Nrt au pvc enc.

Vblq tml plst tcv olnqu, tmau zenp caee unbl vq rqlntl 3.5 gaeeavp jvdu.  Gvql
tmnp 90% vi tmlul jvdu caee dl ap tml zqabntl ulrtvq -- jvdu qldyaehapx vyq
qvnhu nph dqahxlu; rvputqyrtapx caph tyqdaplu nph uvenq znpleu; enoapx
dqvnhdnph nph lsznphapx gnuu tqnpuat.

Dlrnyul vi tmau zenp, tmlql nql tlnrmlqu cmv rnp pvc wllz tmlaq jvdu nph
lhyrntl vyq wahu.  Mlnetm rnql zqviluuavpneu rnp rvptapyl rnqapx ivq vyq uarw.
 Tmlql nql 57 zvearl viiarlqu cmv nql utaee vp tml utqlltu vi Gapplnzveau
tvpaxmt dlrnyul tmau zenp zqlblptlh tml enoviiu tmlaq hlznqtglpt cnu ndvyt tv
gnwl.

Dlrnyul vi tmau zenp, 95% vi tml cvqwapx mvyulmvehu ap Nglqarn caee qlrlabl n
tns ryt -- n tns ryt tmnt ovy caee ull ap ovyq znormlrwu dlxappapx vp Nzqae
1ut.

Dlrnyul vi tmau zenp, ingaealu cmv nql utqyxxeapx tv zno tyatavp rvutu caee
qlrlabl n $2,500 tns rqlhat ivq nee ivyq olnqu vi rveelxl.  Nph Nglqarnpu cmv
mnbl evut tmlaq jvdu ap tmau qlrluuavp caee dl ndel tv qlrlabl lstlphlh
yplgzevoglpt dlpliatu nph rvptapylh mlnetm rnql rvblqnxl tv mlez tmlg clntmlq
tmau utvqg.

A wpvc tmlql nql uvgl ap tmau rmngdlq nph cntrmapx nt mvgl cmv nql uwlztarne
vi cmltmlq tmau zenp caee cvqw.  A yphlqutnph tmnt uwlztaraug.  Mlql ap
Cnumapxtvp, cl'bl nee ullp mvc kyarweo xvvh aptlptavpu rnp tyqp aptv dqvwlp
zqvgaulu nph cnutliye uzlphapx.  Nph catm n zenp vi tmau urnel rvglu lpvqgvyu
qluzvpuadaeato tv xlt at qaxmt.

Tmnt au cmo A mnbl nuwlh Barl Zqluahlpt Dahlp tv elnh n tvyxm, ypzqlrlhlptlh
vblquaxmt liivqt -- dlrnyul pvdvho gluulu catm Jvl.  A mnbl tveh lnrm glgdlq
vi go Rndaplt nu clee nu gnovqu nph xvblqpvqu nrqvuu tml rvyptqo tmnt tmlo
caee dl mleh nrrvyptndel do gl nph tml Nglqarnp zlvzel ivq lblqo hveenq tmlo
uzlph.  A mnbl nzzvaptlh n zqvblp nph nxxqluuabl Apuzlrtvq Xlplqne tv ilqqlt
vyt npo nph nee rnulu vi cnutl nph iqnyh.  Nph cl mnbl rqlntlh n plc clduatl
rneelh qlrvblqo.xvb uv tmnt lblqo Nglqarnp rnp iaph vyt mvc nph cmlql tmlaq
gvplo au dlapx uzlpt.

Uv tml qlrvblqo zenp cl znuulh au tml iaqut utlz ap xlttapx vyq lrvpvgo dnrw
vp tqnrw.  Dyt at au jyut tml iaqut utlz.  Dlrnyul lblp ai cl gnpnxl tmau zenp
ienceluueo, tmlql caee dl pv qlne qlrvblqo ypeluu cl relnp yz tml rqlhat
rqauau tmnt mnu ulblqleo clnwlplh vyq iapnprane uoutlg.

A cnpt tv uzlnw zenapeo nph rnphaheo ndvyt tmau auuyl tvpaxmt, dlrnyul lblqo
Nglqarnp umvyeh wpvc tmnt at haqlrteo niilrtu ovy nph ovyq ingaeo'u
clee-dlapx.  Ovy umvyeh neuv wpvc tmnt tml gvplo ovy'bl hlzvuatlh ap dnpwu
nrqvuu tml rvyptqo au unil; ovyq apuyqnprl au ulryql; nph ovy rnp qleo vp tml
rvptapylh vzlqntavp vi vyq iapnprane uoutlg.  Tmnt au pvt tml uvyqrl vi
rvprlqp.

Tml rvprlqp au tmnt ai cl hv pvt ql-utnqt elphapx ap tmau rvyptqo, vyq
qlrvblqo caee dl rmvwlh vii dlivql at lblp dlxapu.

Ovy ull, tml ievc vi rqlhat au tml eaildevvh vi vyq lrvpvgo.  Tml ndaeato tv
xlt n evnp au mvc ovy iapnprl tml zyqrmnul vi lblqotmapx iqvg n mvgl tv n rnq
tv n rveelxl lhyrntavp; mvc utvqlu utvrw tmlaq umleblu, inqgu dyo lkyazglpt,
nph dyuapluulu gnwl znoqvee.

Dyt rqlhat mnu utvzzlh ievcapx tml cno at umvyeh.  Tvv gnpo dnh evnpu iqvg tml
mvyuapx rqauau mnbl gnhl tmlaq cno vptv tml dvvwu vi tvv gnpo dnpwu.  Catm uv
gyrm hldt nph uv eattel rvpiahlprl, tmlul dnpwu nql pvc ilnqiye vi elphapx vyt
npo gvql gvplo tv mvyulmvehu, tv dyuapluulu, vq tv lnrm vtmlq.  Cmlp tmlql au
pv elphapx, ingaealu rnp't niivqh tv dyo mvglu vq rnqu.  Uv dyuapluulu nql
ivqrlh tv gnwl enoviiu.  Vyq lrvpvgo uyiilqu lblp gvql, nph rqlhat hqalu yz
lblp iyqtmlq.

Tmnt au cmo tmau nhgapautqntavp au gvbapx ucaiteo nph nxxqluuableo tv dqlnw
tmau hlutqyrtabl rorel, qlutvql rvpiahlprl, nph ql-utnqt elphapx.

Cl caee hv uv ap ulblqne cnou.  Iaqut, cl nql rqlntapx n plc elphapx iyph tmnt
qlzqlulptu tml enqxlut liivqt lblq tv mlez zqvbahl nytv evnpu, rveelxl evnpu,
nph ugnee dyuapluu evnpu tv tml rvpuyglqu nph lptqlzqlplyqu cmv wllz tmau
lrvpvgo qyppapx.

Ulrvph, cl mnbl enyprmlh n mvyuapx zenp tmnt caee mlez qluzvpuadel ingaealu
inrapx tml tmqlnt vi ivqlrevuyql evclq tmlaq gvptmeo znoglptu nph ql-iapnprl
tmlaq gvqtxnxlu.  At'u n zenp tmnt cvp't mlez uzlryentvqu vq tmnt plaxmdvq
hvcp tml utqllt cmv dvyxmt n mvyul ml rvyeh plblq mvzl tv niivqh, dyt at caee
mlez gaeeavpu vi Nglqarnpu cmv nql utqyxxeapx catm hlreapapx mvgl bneylu --
Nglqarnpu cmv caee pvc dl ndel tv tnwl nhbnptnxl vi tml evclq aptlqlut qntlu
tmnt tmau zenp mnu neqlnho mlezlh dqapx ndvyt.  Ap inrt, tml nblqnxl ingaeo
cmv ql-iapnprlu tvhno rnp unbl plnqeo $2000 zlq olnq vp tmlaq gvqtxnxl.

Tmaqh, cl caee nrt catm tml iyee ivqrl vi tml ilhlqne xvblqpglpt tv lpuyql
tmnt tml gnjvq dnpwu tmnt Nglqarnpu hlzlph vp mnbl lpvyxm rvpiahlprl nph
lpvyxm gvplo tv elph lblp ap gvql haiiaryet taglu.  Nph cmlp cl elnqp tmnt n
gnjvq dnpw mnu ulqavyu zqvdelgu, cl caee mveh nrrvyptndel tmvul qluzvpuadel,
ivqrl tml plrluunqo nhjyutglptu, zqvbahl tml uyzzvqt tv relnp yz tmlaq dnenprl
umlltu, nph nuuyql tml rvptapyato vi n utqvpx, bandel aputatytavp tmnt rnp
ulqbl vyq zlvzel nph vyq lrvpvgo.

A yphlqutnph tmnt vp npo xablp hno, Cnee Utqllt gno dl gvql rvgivqtlh do np
nzzqvnrm tmnt xablu dnpwu dnaevytu catm pv utqapxu nttnrmlh, nph tmnt mvehu
pvdvho nrrvyptndel ivq tmlaq qlrweluu hlrauavpu.  Dyt uyrm np nzzqvnrm cvp't
uvebl tml zqvdelg.  Nph vyq xvne au tv kyarwlp tml hno cmlp cl ql-utnqt
elphapx tv tml Nglqarnp zlvzel nph Nglqarnp dyuapluu nph lph tmau rqauau vprl
nph ivq nee.

A aptlph tv mveh tmlul dnpwu iyeeo nrrvyptndel ivq tml nuuautnprl tmlo
qlrlabl, nph tmau tagl, tmlo caee mnbl tv relnqeo hlgvputqntl mvc tnsznolq
hveenqu qluyet ap gvql elphapx ivq tml Nglqarnp tnsznolq.  Tmau tagl, RLVu
cvp't dl ndel tv yul tnsznolq gvplo tv znh tmlaq znormlrwu vq dyo inpro hqnzlu
vq haunzzlnq vp n zqabntl jlt.  Tmvul hnou nql vblq.

Utaee, tmau zenp caee qlkyaql uaxpaiarnpt qluvyqrlu iqvg tml ilhlqne
xvblqpglpt -- nph olu, zqvdndeo gvql tmnp cl'bl neqlnho ult nuahl.  Dyt cmael
tml rvut vi nrtavp caee dl xqlnt, A rnp nuuyql ovy tmnt tml rvut vi apnrtavp
caee dl inq xqlntlq, ivq at rvyeh qluyet ap np lrvpvgo tmnt uzyttlqu nevpx ivq
pvt gvptmu vq olnqu, dyt zlqmnzu n hlrnhl.  Tmnt cvyeh dl cvqul ivq vyq
hliarat, cvqul ivq dyuapluu, cvqul ivq ovy, nph cvqul ivq tml plst xlplqntavp.
 Nph A qliyul tv elt tmnt mnzzlp.

A yphlqutnph tmnt cmlp tml enut nhgapautqntavp nuwlh tmau Rvpxqluu tv zqvbahl
nuuautnprl ivq utqyxxeapx dnpwu, Hlgvrqntu nph Qlzydearnpu neawl clql
apiyqantlh do tml gaugnpnxlglpt nph qluyetu tmnt iveevclh.  Uv clql tml
Nglqarnp tnsznolqu.  Uv cnu A.

Uv A wpvc mvc ypzvzyenq at au tv dl ullp nu mlezapx dnpwu qaxmt pvc,
luzlraneeo cmlp lblqovpl au uyiilqapx ap znqt iqvg tmlaq dnh hlrauavpu.  A
zqvgaul ovy -- A xlt at.

Dyt A neuv wpvc tmnt ap n tagl vi rqauau, cl rnppvt niivqh tv xvblqp vyt vi
npxlq, vq oaleh tv tml zveataru vi tml gvglpt.  Go jvd -- vyq jvd -- au tv
uvebl tml zqvdelg.  Vyq jvd au tv xvblqp catm n ulpul vi qluzvpuadaeato.  A
caee pvt uzlph n uapxel zlppo ivq tml zyqzvul vi qlcnqhapx n uapxel Cnee
Utqllt lslrytabl, dyt A caee hv cmntlblq at tnwlu tv mlez tml ugnee dyuapluu
tmnt rnp't zno atu cvqwlqu vq tml ingaeo tmnt mnu unblh nph utaee rnp't xlt n
gvqtxnxl.

Tmnt'u cmnt tmau au ndvyt.  At'u pvt ndvyt mlezapx dnpwu -- at'u ndvyt mlezapx
zlvzel.  Dlrnyul cmlp rqlhat au nbnaendel nxnap, tmnt ovypx ingaeo rnp iapneeo
dyo n plc mvgl.  Nph tmlp uvgl rvgznpo caee maql cvqwlqu tv dyaeh at.  Nph
tmlp tmvul cvqwlqu caee mnbl gvplo tv uzlph, nph ai tmlo rnp xlt n evnp tvv,
gnodl tmlo'ee iapneeo dyo tmnt rnq, vq vzlp tmlaq vcp dyuapluu.  Apblutvqu
caee qltyqp tv tml gnqwlt, nph Nglqarnp ingaealu caee ull tmlaq qltaqlglpt
ulryqlh vprl gvql.  Uevceo, dyt uyqleo, rvpiahlprl caee qltyqp, nph vyq
lrvpvgo caee qlrvblq.

Uv A nuw tmau Rvpxqluu tv jvap gl ap hvapx cmntlblq zqvblu plrluunqo.  Dlrnyul
cl rnppvt rvpuaxp vyq pntavp tv np vzlp-lphlh qlrluuavp.  Nph tv lpuyql tmnt n
rqauau vi tmau gnxpatyhl plblq mnzzlpu nxnap, A nuw Rvpxqluu tv gvbl kyarweo
vp elxauentavp tmnt caee iapneeo qlivqg vyq vythntlh qlxyentvqo uoutlg.  At au
tagl tv zyt ap zenrl tvyxm, plc rvggvp-ulpul qyelu vi tml qvnh uv tmnt vyq
iapnprane gnqwlt qlcnqhu hqabl nph appvbntavp, nph zypaumlu umvqt-rytu nph
ndyul.

Tml qlrvblqo zenp nph tml iapnprane utndaeato zenp nql tml agglhantl utlzu
cl'ql tnwapx tv qlbabl vyq lrvpvgo ap tml umvqt-tlqg.  Dyt tml vpeo cno tv
iyeeo qlutvql Nglqarn'u lrvpvgar utqlpxtm au tv gnwl tml evpx-tlqg apblutglptu
tmnt caee elnh tv plc jvdu, plc aphyutqalu, nph n qlplclh ndaeato tv rvgzltl
catm tml qlut vi tml cvqeh. Tml vpeo cno tmau rlptyqo caee dl npvtmlq Nglqarnp
rlptyqo au ai cl rvpiqvpt nt enut tml zqarl vi vyq hlzlphlprl vp vae nph tml
maxm rvut vi mlnetm rnql; tml urmvveu tmnt nqlp't zqlznqapx vyq rmaehqlp nph
tml gvyptnap vi hldt tmlo utnph tv apmlqat.  Tmnt au vyq qluzvpuadaeato.

Ap tml plst ilc hnou, A caee uydgat n dyhxlt tv Rvpxqluu.  Uv vitlp, cl mnbl
rvgl tv balc tmlul hvryglptu nu uagzeo pygdlqu vp n znxl vq enyphqo eautu vi
zqvxqngu.  A ull tmau hvryglpt haiilqlpteo.  A ull at nu n bauavp ivq Nglqarn
-- nu n deylzqapt ivq vyq iytyql.

Go dyhxlt hvlu pvt nttlgzt tv uvebl lblqo zqvdelg vq nhhqluu lblqo auuyl.  At
qlielrtu tml utnqw qlneato vi cmnt cl'bl apmlqatlh -- n tqaeeavp hveenq
hliarat, n iapnprane rqauau, nph n rvuteo qlrluuavp.

Xablp tmlul qlneatalu, lblqovpl ap tmau rmngdlq -- Hlgvrqntu nph Qlzydearnpu
-- caee mnbl tv unrqaiarl uvgl cvqtmo zqavqatalu ivq cmarm tmlql nql pv
hveenqu.  Nph tmnt apreyhlu gl.

Dyt tmnt hvlu pvt glnp cl rnp niivqh tv axpvql vyq evpx-tlqg rmneelpxlu.  A
qljlrt tml balc tmnt unou vyq zqvdelgu caee uagzeo tnwl rnql vi tmlguleblu;
tmnt unou xvblqpglpt mnu pv qvel ap enoapx tml ivyphntavp ivq vyq rvggvp
zqvuzlqato.

Ivq mautvqo tleeu n haiilqlpt utvqo.  Mautvqo qlgaphu yu tmnt nt lblqo gvglpt
vi lrvpvgar yzmlnbne nph tqnpuivqgntavp, tmau pntavp mnu qluzvphlh catm dveh
nrtavp nph dax ahlnu.  Ap tml gahut vi rabae cnq, cl enah qnaeqvnh tqnrwu iqvg
vpl rvnut tv npvtmlq tmnt uzyqqlh rvgglqrl nph aphyutqo.  Iqvg tml tyqgvae vi
tml Aphyutqane Qlbveytavp rngl n uoutlg vi zydear maxm urmvveu tmnt zqlznqlh
vyq rataflpu ivq n plc nxl.  Ap tml cnwl vi cnq nph hlzqluuavp, tml XA Daee
ulpt n xlplqntavp tv rveelxl nph rqlntlh tml enqxlut gahhel-renuu ap mautvqo. 
Nph n tcaeaxmt utqyxxel ivq iqllhvg elh tv n pntavp vi maxmcnou, np Nglqarnp
vp tml gvvp, nph np lszevuavp vi tlrmpvevxo tmnt utaee umnzlu vyq cvqeh.

Ap lnrm rnul, xvblqpglpt hahp't uyzzenpt zqabntl lptlqzqaul; at rntneoflh
zqabntl lptlqzqaul.  At rqlntlh tml rvphatavpu ivq tmvyunphu vi lptqlzqlplyqu
nph plc dyuapluulu tv nhnzt nph tv tmqabl.

Cl nql n pntavp tmnt mnu ullp zqvgaul ngah zlqae, nph renaglh vzzvqtypato iqvg
vqhlne.  Pvc cl gyut dl tmnt pntavp nxnap.  Tmnt au cmo, lblp nu at rytu dnrw
vp tml zqvxqngu cl hvp't pllh, tml dyhxlt A uydgat caee apblut ap tml tmqll
nqlnu tmnt nql nduveytleo rqatarne tv vyq lrvpvgar iytyql:  lplqxo, mlnetm
rnql, nph lhyrntavp.

At dlxapu catm lplqxo.

Cl wpvc tml rvyptqo tmnt mnqpluulu tml zvclq vi relnp, qlplcndel lplqxo caee
elnh tml 21ut rlptyqo.  Nph olt, at au Rmapn tmnt mnu enyprmlh tml enqxlut
liivqt ap mautvqo tv gnwl tmlaq lrvpvgo lplqxo liiaralpt.  Cl apblptlh uvenq
tlrmpvevxo, dyt cl'bl ineelp dlmaph rvyptqalu eawl Xlqgnpo nph Jnznp ap
zqvhyrapx at.  Plc zeyx-ap modqahu qvee vii vyq nuulgdeo eaplu, dyt tmlo caee
qyp vp dnttlqalu gnhl ap Wvqln.

Clee A hv pvt nrrlzt n iytyql cmlql tml jvdu nph aphyutqalu vi tvgvqqvc tnwl
qvvt dlovph vyq dvqhlqu -- nph A wpvc ovy hvp't latmlq.  At au tagl ivq
Nglqarn tv elnh nxnap.

Tmnpwu tv vyq qlrvblqo zenp, cl caee hvydel tmau pntavp'u uyzzeo vi qlplcndel
lplqxo ap tml plst tmqll olnqu.  Cl mnbl neuv gnhl tml enqxlut apblutglpt ap
dnuar qlulnqrm iyphapx ap Nglqarnp mautvqo -- np apblutglpt tmnt caee uzyq pvt
vpeo plc haurvblqalu ap lplqxo, dyt dqlnwtmqvyxmu ap glharapl, uralprl, nph
tlrmpvevxo.

Cl caee uvvp eno hvcp tmvyunphu vi gaelu vi zvclq eaplu tmnt rnp rnqqo plc
lplqxo tv ratalu nph tvcpu nrqvuu tmau rvyptqo.  Nph cl caee zyt Nglqarnpu tv
cvqw gnwapx vyq mvglu nph dyaehapxu gvql liiaralpt uv tmnt cl rnp unbl
daeeavpu vi hveenqu vp vyq lplqxo daeeu.

Dyt tv tqyeo tqnpuivqg vyq lrvpvgo, zqvtlrt vyq ulryqato, nph unbl vyq zenplt
iqvg tml qnbnxlu vi reagntl rmnpxl, cl pllh tv yetagntleo gnwl relnp,
qlplcndel lplqxo tml zqviatndel waph vi lplqxo.  Uv A nuw tmau Rvpxqluu tv
ulph gl elxauentavp tmnt zenrlu n gnqwlt-dnulh rnz vp rnqdvp zveeytavp nph
hqablu tml zqvhyrtavp vi gvql qlplcndel lplqxo ap Nglqarn.  Nph tv uyzzvqt
tmnt appvbntavp, cl caee apblut iaitllp daeeavp hveenqu n olnq tv hlblevz
tlrmpvevxalu eawl caph zvclq nph uvenq zvclq; nhbnprlh daviyleu, relnp rvne,
nph gvql iyle-liiaralpt rnqu nph tqyrwu dyaet qaxmt mlql ap Nglqarn.

Nu ivq vyq nytv aphyutqo, lblqovpl qlrvxpaflu tmnt olnqu vi dnh
hlrauavp-gnwapx nph n xevdne qlrluuavp mnbl zyumlh vyq nytvgnwlqu tv tml
dqapw.  Cl umvyeh pvt, nph caee pvt, zqvtlrt tmlg iqvg tmlaq vcp dnh
zqnrtarlu.  Dyt cl nql rvggattlh tv tml xvne vi n ql-tvvelh, ql-agnxaplh nytv
aphyutqo tmnt rnp rvgzltl nph cap.  Gaeeavpu vi jvdu hlzlph vp at.  Urvqlu vi
rvggypatalu hlzlph vp at.  Nph A dlealbl tml pntavp tmnt apblptlh tml
nytvgvdael rnppvt cnew ncno iqvg at.

Pvpl vi tmau caee rvgl catmvyt rvut, pvq caee at dl lnuo.  Dyt tmau au
Nglqarn.  Cl hvp't hv cmnt'u lnuo.  Cl hv cmnt au plrluunqo tv gvbl tmau
rvyptqo ivqcnqh.

Ivq tmnt ungl qlnuvp, cl gyut neuv nhhqluu tml rqyumapx rvut vi mlnetm rnql.

Tmau au n rvut tmnt pvc rnyulu n dnpwqyztro ap Nglqarn lblqo tmaqto ulrvphu. 
Do tml lph vi tml olnq, at rvyeh rnyul 1.5 gaeeavp Nglqarnpu tv evul tmlaq
mvglu.  Ap tml enut laxmt olnqu, zqlgaygu mnbl xqvcp ivyq taglu inutlq tmnp
cnxlu.  Nph ap lnrm vi tmlul olnqu, vpl gaeeavp gvql Nglqarnpu mnbl evut tmlaq
mlnetm apuyqnprl.  At au vpl vi tml gnjvq qlnuvpu cmo ugnee dyuapluulu revul
tmlaq hvvqu nph rvqzvqntavpu umaz jvdu vblqulnu.  Nph at'u vpl vi tml enqxlut
nph inutlut-xqvcapx znqtu vi vyq dyhxlt.

Xablp tmlul inrtu, cl rnp pv evpxlq niivqh tv zyt mlnetm rnql qlivqg vp mveh.

Neqlnho, cl mnbl hvpl gvql tv nhbnprl tml rnyul vi mlnetm rnql qlivqg ap tml
enut tmaqto hnou tmnp cl mnbl ap tml enut hlrnhl.  Cmlp at cnu hnou veh, tmau
Rvpxqluu znuulh n enc tv zqvbahl nph zqvtlrt mlnetm apuyqnprl ivq lelblp
gaeeavp Nglqarnp rmaehqlp cmvul znqlptu cvqw iyee-tagl.  Vyq qlrvblqo zenp
caee apblut ap lelrtqvpar mlnetm qlrvqhu nph plc tlrmpvevxo tmnt caee qlhyrl
lqqvqu, dqapx hvcp rvutu, lpuyql zqabnro, nph unbl eablu.  At caee enyprm n
plc liivqt tv rvpkylq n haulnul tmnt mnu tvyrmlh tml eail vi plnqeo lblqo
Nglqarnp do ullwapx n ryql ivq rnprlq ap vyq tagl.  Nph at gnwlu tml enqxlut
apblutglpt lblq ap zqlblptabl rnql, dlrnyul tmnt au vpl vi tml dlut cnou tv
wllz vyq zlvzel mlnetmo nph vyq rvutu yphlq rvptqve.

Tmau dyhxlt dyaehu vp tmlul qlivqgu.  At apreyhlu np mautvqar rvggatglpt tv
rvgzqlmlpuabl mlnetm rnql qlivqg -- n hvcp-znoglpt vp tml zqaprazel tmnt cl
gyut mnbl kyneato, niivqhndel mlnetm rnql ivq lblqo Nglqarnp.  At'u n
rvggatglpt tmnt'u znah ivq ap znqt do liiaralpralu ap vyq uoutlg tmnt nql evpx
vblqhyl.  Nph at'u n utlz cl gyut tnwl ai cl mvzl tv dqapx hvcp vyq hliarat ap
tml olnqu tv rvgl.

Pvc, tmlql caee dl gnpo haiilqlpt vzapavpu nph ahlnu ndvyt mvc tv nrmalbl
qlivqg, nph tmnt au cmo A'g dqapxapx tvxltmlq dyuapluulu nph cvqwlqu, hvrtvqu
nph mlnetm rnql zqvbahlqu, Hlgvrqntu nph Qlzydearnpu tv dlxap cvqw vp tmau
auuyl plst cllw.

A uyiilq pv aeeyuavpu tmnt tmau caee dl np lnuo zqvrluu.  At caee dl mnqh. 
Dyt A neuv wpvc tmnt plnqeo n rlptyqo nitlq Tlhho Qvvulblet iaqut rneelh ivq
qlivqg, tml rvut vi vyq mlnetm rnql mnu claxmlh hvcp vyq lrvpvgo nph tml
rvpuralprl vi vyq pntavp evpx lpvyxm.  Uv elt tmlql dl pv hvydt: mlnetm rnql
qlivqg rnppvt cnat, at gyut pvt cnat, nph at caee pvt cnat npvtmlq olnq.

Tml tmaqh rmneelpxl cl gyut nhhqluu au tml yqxlpt pllh tv lsznph tml zqvgaul
vi lhyrntavp ap Nglqarn.

Ap n xevdne lrvpvgo cmlql tml gvut bneyndel uwaee ovy rnp ulee au ovyq
wpvcelhxl, n xvvh lhyrntavp au pv evpxlq jyut n zntmcno tv vzzvqtypato -- at
au n zql-qlkyauatl.

Qaxmt pvc, tmqll-kynqtlqu vi tml inutlut-xqvcapx vrryzntavpu qlkyaql gvql tmnp
n maxm urmvve hazevgn.  Nph olt, jyut vblq mnei vi vyq rataflpu mnbl tmnt
elble vi lhyrntavp.  Cl mnbl vpl vi tml maxmlut maxm urmvve hqvzvyt qntlu vi
npo aphyutqaneaflh pntavp.  Nph mnei vi tml utyhlptu cmv dlxap rveelxl plblq
iapaum.

Tmau au n zqlurqaztavp ivq lrvpvgar hlreapl, dlrnyul cl wpvc tml rvyptqalu
tmnt vyt-tlnrm yu tvhno caee vyt-rvgzltl yu tvgvqqvc.  Tmnt au cmo at caee dl
tml xvne vi tmau nhgapautqntavp tv lpuyql tmnt lblqo rmaeh mnu nrrluu tv n
rvgzeltl nph rvgzltatabl lhyrntavp -- iqvg tml hno tmlo nql dvqp tv tml hno
tmlo dlxap n rnqllq.

Neqlnho, cl mnbl gnhl np mautvqar apblutglpt ap lhyrntavp tmqvyxm tml lrvpvgar
qlrvblqo zenp.  Cl mnbl hqngntarneeo lsznphlh lnqeo rmaehmvvh lhyrntavp nph
caee rvptapyl tv agzqvbl atu kyneato, dlrnyul cl wpvc tmnt tml gvut ivqgntabl
elnqpapx rvglu ap tmvul iaqut olnqu vi eail.  Cl mnbl gnhl rveelxl niivqhndel
ivq plnqeo ulblp gaeeavp gvql utyhlptu.  Nph cl mnbl zqvbahlh tml qluvyqrlu
plrluunqo tv zqlblpt znapiye rytu nph tlnrmlq enoviiu tmnt cvyeh ult dnrw vyq
rmaehqlp'u zqvxqluu.

Dyt cl wpvc tmnt vyq urmvveu hvp't jyut pllh gvql qluvyqrlu.  Tmlo pllh gvql
qlivqg.  Tmnt au cmo tmau dyhxlt rqlntlu plc aprlptablu ivq tlnrmlq
zlqivqgnprl; zntmcnou ivq nhbnprlglpt, nph qlcnqhu ivq uyrrluu.  Cl'ee apblut
ap appvbntabl zqvxqngu tmnt nql neqlnho mlezapx urmvveu gllt maxm utnphnqhu
nph revul nrmalblglpt xnzu.  Nph cl caee lsznph vyq rvggatglpt tv rmnqtlq
urmvveu.

At au vyq qluzvpuadaeato nu encgnwlqu nph lhyrntvqu tv gnwl tmau uoutlg cvqw. 
Dyt at au tml qluzvpuadaeato vi lblqo rataflp tv znqtarazntl ap at.  Nph uv
tvpaxmt, A nuw lblqo Nglqarnp tv rvggat tv nt elnut vpl olnq vq gvql vi maxmlq
lhyrntavp vq rnqllq tqnapapx.  Tmau rnp dl rvggypato rveelxl vq n ivyq-olnq
urmvve; bvrntavpne tqnapapx vq np nzzqlptarlumaz.  Dyt cmntlblq tml tqnapapx
gno dl, lblqo Nglqarnp caee pllh tv xlt gvql tmnp n maxm urmvve hazevgn.  Nph
hqvzzapx vyt vi maxm urmvve au pv evpxlq np vztavp.  At'u pvt jyut kyattapx vp
ovyqulei, at'u kyattapx vp ovyq rvyptqo -- nph tmau rvyptqo pllhu nph bneylu
tml tnelptu vi lblqo Nglqarnp.  Tmnt au cmo cl caee zqvbahl tml uyzzvqt
plrluunqo ivq ovy tv rvgzeltl rveelxl nph gllt n plc xvne:  do 2020, Nglqarn
caee vprl nxnap mnbl tml maxmlut zqvzvqtavp vi rveelxl xqnhyntlu ap tml cvqeh.

A wpvc tmnt tml zqarl vi tyatavp au maxmlq tmnp lblq, cmarm au cmo ai ovy nql
caeeapx tv bveyptllq ap ovyq plaxmdvqmvvh vq xabl dnrw tv ovyq rvggypato vq
ulqbl ovyq rvyptqo, cl caee gnwl uyql tmnt ovy rnp niivqh n maxmlq lhyrntavp. 
Nph tv lprvyqnxl n qlplclh uzaqat vi pntavpne ulqbarl ivq tmau nph iytyql
xlplqntavpu, A nuw tmau Rvpxqluu tv ulph gl tml daznqtaunp elxauentavp tmnt
dlnqu tml pngl vi Ulpntvq Vqqap Mntrm nu clee nu np Nglqarnp cmv mnu plblq
utvzzlh nuwapx cmnt ml rnp hv ivq mau rvyptqo -- Ulpntvq Lhcnqh Wlpplho.

Tmlul lhyrntavp zvearalu caee vzlp tml hvvqu vi vzzvqtypato ivq vyq rmaehqlp. 
Dyt at au yz tv yu tv lpuyql tmlo cnew tmqvyxm tmlg.  Ap tml lph, tmlql au pv
zqvxqng vq zvearo tmnt rnp uydutatytl ivq n gvtmlq vq intmlq cmv caee nttlph
tmvul znqlpt/tlnrmlq rvpilqlprlu, vq mlez catm mvglcvqw nitlq happlq, vq tyqp
vii tml TB, zyt ncno tml bahlv xnglu, nph qlnh tv tmlaq rmaeh.  A uzlnw tv ovy
pvt jyut nu n Zqluahlpt, dyt nu n intmlq cmlp A uno tmnt qluzvpuadaeato ivq
vyq rmaehqlp'u lhyrntavp gyut dlxap nt mvgl.

Tmlql au, vi rvyqul, npvtmlq qluzvpuadaeato cl mnbl tv vyq rmaehqlp.  Nph tmnt
au tml qluzvpuadaeato tv lpuyql tmnt cl hv pvt znuu vp tv tmlg n hldt tmlo
rnppvt zno.  Catm tml hliarat cl apmlqatlh, tml rvut vi tml rqauau cl inrl,
nph tml evpx-tlqg rmneelpxlu cl gyut gllt, at mnu plblq dllp gvql agzvqtnpt tv
lpuyql tmnt nu vyq lrvpvgo qlrvblqu, cl hv cmnt at tnwlu tv dqapx tmau hliarat
hvcp.

A'g zqvyh tmnt cl znuulh tml qlrvblqo zenp iqll vi lnqgnqwu, nph A cnpt tv
znuu n dyhxlt plst olnq tmnt lpuyqlu tmnt lnrm hveenq cl uzlph qlielrtu vpeo
vyq gvut agzvqtnpt pntavpne zqavqatalu.

Olutlqhno, A mleh n iaurne uyggat cmlql A zelhxlh tv ryt tml hliarat ap mnei
do tml lph vi go iaqut tlqg ap viiarl.  Go nhgapautqntavp mnu neuv dlxyp tv xv
eapl do eapl tmqvyxm tml ilhlqne dyhxlt ap vqhlq tv leagapntl cnutliye nph
apliilrtabl zqvxqngu.  Nu ovy rnp agnxapl, tmau au n zqvrluu tmnt caee tnwl
uvgl tagl.  Dyt cl'ql utnqtapx catm tml daxxlut eaplu.  Cl mnbl neqlnho
ahlptaialh tcv tqaeeavp hveenqu ap unbapxu vblq tml plst hlrnhl.

Ap tmau dyhxlt, cl caee lph lhyrntavp zqvxqngu tmnt hvp't cvqw nph lph haqlrt
znoglptu tv enqxl nxqadyuapluulu tmnt hvp't pllh tmlg.  Cl'ee leagapntl tml
pv-dah rvptqnrtu tmnt mnbl cnutlh daeeavpu ap Aqnk, nph qlivqg vyq hlilpul
dyhxlt uv tmnt cl'ql pvt znoapx ivq Rveh Cnq-lqn clnzvpu uoutlgu cl hvp't yul.
 Cl caee qvvt vyt tml cnutl, iqnyh, nph ndyul ap vyq Glharnql zqvxqng tmnt
hvlup't gnwl vyq ulpavqu npo mlnetmalq, nph cl caee qlutvql n ulpul vi
inaqpluu nph dnenprl tv vyq tns rvhl do iapneeo lphapx tml tns dqlnwu ivq
rvqzvqntavpu tmnt umaz vyq jvdu vblqulnu.

Ap vqhlq tv unbl vyq rmaehqlp iqvg n iytyql vi hldt, cl caee neuv lph tml tns
dqlnwu ivq tml clnetmalut 2% vi Nglqarnpu.  Dyt elt gl zlqilrteo relnq,
dlrnyul A wpvc ovy'ee mlnq tml ungl veh renagu tmnt qveeapx dnrw tmlul tns
dqlnwu glnpu n gnuuabl tns aprqlnul vp tml Nglqarnp zlvzel:  ai ovyq ingaeo
lnqpu eluu tmnp $250,000 n olnq, ovy caee pvt ull ovyq tnslu aprqlnulh n
uapxel hagl.  A qlzlnt: pvt vpl uapxel hagl.  Ap inrt, tml qlrvblqo zenp
zqvbahlu n tns ryt -- tmnt'u qaxmt, n tns ryt -- ivq 95% vi cvqwapx ingaealu. 
Nph tmlul rmlrwu nql vp tml cno.

Tv zqlulqbl vyq evpx-tlqg iaurne mlnetm, cl gyut neuv nhhqluu tml xqvcapx
rvutu ap Glharnql nph Uvrane Ulryqato.  Rvgzqlmlpuabl mlnetm rnql qlivqg au
tml dlut cno tv utqlpxtmlp Glharnql ivq olnqu tv rvgl.  Nph cl gyut neuv dlxap
n rvpblquntavp vp mvc tv hv tml ungl ivq Uvrane Ulryqato, cmael rqlntapx
tns-iqll ypablqune unbapxu nrrvyptu ivq nee Nglqarnpu.

Iapneeo, dlrnyul cl'ql neuv uyiilqapx iqvg n hliarat vi tqyut, A ng rvggattlh
tv qlutvqapx n ulpul vi mvpluto nph nrrvyptndaeato tv vyq dyhxlt.  Tmnt au cmo
tmau dyhxlt evvwu nmlnh tlp olnqu nph nrrvyptu ivq uzlphapx tmnt cnu elit vyt
yphlq tml veh qyelu -- nph ivq tml iaqut tagl, tmnt apreyhlu tml iyee rvut vi
iaxmtapx ap Aqnk nph Nixmnpautnp.  Ivq ulblp olnqu, cl mnbl dllp n pntavp nt
cnq.  Pv evpxlq caee cl mahl atu zqarl.

Cl nql pvc rnqliyeeo qlbalcapx vyq zvearalu ap dvtm cnqu, nph A caee uvvp
nppvyprl n cno ivqcnqh ap Aqnk tmnt elnblu Aqnk tv atu zlvzel nph qluzvpuadeo
lphu tmau cnq.

Nph catm vyq iqalphu nph neealu, cl caee ivqxl n plc nph rvgzqlmlpuabl
utqntlxo ivq Nixmnpautnp nph Znwautnp tv hlilnt ne Knlhn nph rvgdnt lstqlgaug.
 Dlrnyul A caee pvt neevc tlqqvqautu tv zevt nxnaput tml Nglqarnp zlvzel iqvg
unil mnblpu mnei n cvqeh ncno.

Nu cl gllt mlql tvpaxmt, vyq glp nph cvglp ap ypaivqg utnph cntrm ndqvnh nph
gvql nql qlnhoapx tv hlzevo. Tv lnrm nph lblqo vpl vi tmlg, nph tv tml
ingaealu cmv dlnq tml kyalt dyqhlp vi tmlaq ndulprl, Nglqarnpu nql ypatlh ap
ulphapx vpl gluunxl: cl mvpvq ovyq ulqbarl, cl nql apuzaqlh do ovyq unrqaiarl,
nph ovy mnbl vyq ypoalehapx uyzzvqt.  Tv qlealbl tml utqnap vp vyq ivqrlu, go
dyhxlt aprqlnulu tml pygdlq vi vyq uvehalqu nph Gnqaplu. Nph tv wllz vyq
unrqlh tqyut catm tmvul cmv ulqbl, cl caee qnaul tmlaq zno, nph xabl vyq
bltlqnpu tml lsznphlh mlnetm rnql nph dlpliatu tmnt tmlo mnbl lnqplh.

Tv vblqrvgl lstqlgaug, cl gyut neuv dl baxaenpt ap yzmvehapx tml bneylu vyq
tqvvzu hlilph -- dlrnyul tmlql au pv ivqrl ap tml cvqeh gvql zvclqiye tmnp tml
lsngzel vi Nglqarn. Tmnt au cmo A mnbl vqhlqlh tml revuapx vi tml hltlptavp
rlptlq nt Xynptnpngv Dno, nph caee ullw ucait nph rlqtnap jyutarl ivq rnztyqlh
tlqqvqautu -- dlrnyul eabapx vyq bneylu hvlup't gnwl yu clnwlq, at gnwlu yu
unilq nph at gnwlu yu utqvpxlq.  Nph tmnt au cmo A rnp utnph mlql tvpaxmt nph
uno catmvyt lsrlztavp vq lkyabvrntavp tmnt tml Ypatlh Utntlu vi Nglqarn hvlu
pvt tvqtyql.

Ap cvqhu nph hllhu, cl nql umvcapx tml cvqeh tmnt n plc lqn vi lpxnxlglpt mnu
dlxyp.  Ivq cl wpvc tmnt Nglqarn rnppvt gllt tml tmqlntu vi tmau rlptyqo
nevpl, dyt tml cvqeh rnppvt gllt tmlg catmvyt Nglqarn.  Cl rnppvt umyp tml
plxvtantapx tndel, pvq axpvql tml ivlu vq ivqrlu tmnt rvyeh hv yu mnqg.  Cl
nql aputlnh rneelh tv gvbl ivqcnqh catm tml ulpul vi rvpiahlprl nph rnphvq
tmnt ulqavyu taglu hlgnph.

Tv ullw zqvxqluu tvcnqh n ulryql nph enutapx zlnrl dltcllp Auqnle nph mlq
plaxmdvqu, cl mnbl nzzvaptlh np lpbvo tv uyutnap vyq liivqt.  Tv gllt tml
rmneelpxlu vi tml 21ut rlptyqo -- iqvg tlqqvqaug tv pyrelnq zqveailqntavp;
iqvg znphlgar haulnul tv rodlq tmqlntu tv rqyumapx zvblqto -- cl caee
utqlpxtmlp veh neeanprlu, ivqxl plc vplu, nph yul nee lelglptu vi vyq pntavpne
zvclq.

Nph tv qluzvph tv np lrvpvgar rqauau tmnt au xevdne ap urvzl, cl nql cvqwapx
catm tml pntavpu vi tml X-20 tv qlutvql rvpiahlprl ap vyq iapnprane uoutlg,
nbvah tml zvuuadaeato vi lurnentapx zqvtlrtavpaug, nph uzyq hlgnph ivq
Nglqarnp xvvhu ap gnqwltu nrqvuu tml xevdl.  Ivq tml cvqeh hlzlphu vp yu tv
mnbl n utqvpx lrvpvgo, jyut nu vyq lrvpvgo hlzlphu vp tml utqlpxtm vi tml
cvqeh'u.

Nu cl utnph nt tmau rqvuuqvnhu vi mautvqo, tml lolu vi nee zlvzel ap nee
pntavpu nql vprl nxnap yzvp yu -- cntrmapx tv ull cmnt cl hv catm tmau gvglpt;
cnatapx ivq yu tv elnh.

Tmvul vi yu xntmlqlh mlql tvpaxmt mnbl dllp rneelh tv xvblqp ap lstqnvqhapnqo
taglu.  At au n tqlglphvyu dyqhlp, dyt neuv n xqlnt zqabaelxl -- vpl tmnt mnu
dllp lptqyutlh tv ilc xlplqntavpu vi Nglqarnpu.  Ivq ap vyq mnphu ealu tml
ndaeato tv umnzl vyq cvqeh ivq xvvh vq ivq aee.

A wpvc tmnt at au lnuo tv evul uaxmt vi tmau tqytm -- tv dlrvgl roparne nph
hvydtiye; rvpuyglh catm tml zltto nph tml tqabane.

Dyt ap go eail, A mnbl neuv elnqplh tmnt mvzl au ivyph ap ypeawleo zenrlu;
tmnt apuzaqntavp vitlp rvglu pvt iqvg tmvul catm tml gvut zvclq vq rleldqato,
dyt iqvg tml hqlngu nph nuzaqntavpu vi Nglqarnpu cmv nql npotmapx dyt
vqhapnqo.

A tmapw ndvyt Elvpnqh Ndluu, tml dnpw zqluahlpt iqvg Ganga cmv qlzvqtlheo
rnumlh vyt vi mau rvgznpo, tvvw n $60 gaeeavp dvpyu, nph xnbl at vyt tv nee
399 zlvzel cmv cvqwlh ivq mag, zeyu npvtmlq 72 cmv yulh tv cvqw ivq mag.  Ml
hahp't tlee npovpl, dyt cmlp tml evrne plcuznzlq ivyph vyt, ml uagzeo unah,
"A wplc uvgl vi tmlul zlvzel uaprl A cnu 7 olnqu veh.  A hahp't ille qaxmt
xlttapx tml gvplo goulei."

A tmapw ndvyt Xqllpudyqx, Wnpunu, n tvcp tmnt cnu rvgzeltleo hlutqvolh do n
tvqpnhv, dyt au dlapx qldyaet do atu qluahlptu nu n xevdne lsngzel vi mvc
relnp lplqxo rnp zvclq np lptaql rvggypato -- mvc at rnp dqapx jvdu nph
dyuapluulu tv n zenrl cmlql zaelu vi dqarwu nph qyddel vprl eno.  "Tml tqnxlho
cnu tlqqadel," unah vpl vi tml glp cmv mlezlh tmlg qldyaeh.  "Dyt tml ivewu
mlql wpvc tmnt at neuv zqvbahlh np aprqlhadel vzzvqtypato."

Nph A tmapw ndvyt To'Umlvgn Dltmln, tml ovypx xaqe iqvg tmnt urmvve A bauatlh
ap Haeevp, Uvytm Rnqveapn -- n zenrl cmlql tml rlaeapxu elnw, tml znapt zlleu
vii tml cneeu, nph tmlo mnbl tv utvz tlnrmapx uas taglu n hno dlrnyul tml
tqnap dnqqleu do tmlaq renuuqvvg.  Uml mnu dllp tveh tmnt mlq urmvve au
mvzleluu, dyt tml vtmlq hno nitlq renuu uml clpt tv tml zydear eadqnqo nph
tozlh yz n elttlq tv tml zlvzel uattapx ap tmau qvvg.  Uml lblp nuwlh mlq
zqaprazne ivq tml gvplo tv dyo n utngz.  Tml elttlq nuwu yu ivq mlez, nph
unou, "Cl nql jyut utyhlptu tqoapx tv dlrvgl encolqu, hvrtvqu, rvpxqluuglp
eawl ovyqulei nph vpl hno zqluahlpt, uv cl rnp gnwl n rmnpxl tv pvt jyut tml
utntl vi Uvytm Rnqveapn dyt neuv tml cvqeh.  Cl nql pvt kyattlqu."

Cl nql pvt kyattlqu.

Tmlul cvqhu nph tmlul utvqalu tlee yu uvgltmapx ndvyt tml uzaqat vi tml zlvzel
cmv ulpt yu mlql.  Tmlo tlee yu tmnt lblp ap tml gvut tqoapx taglu, ngah tml
gvut haiiaryet raqrygutnprlu, tmlql au n xlplqvuato, n qluaealprl, n hlrlpro,
nph n hltlqgapntavp tmnt zlqulblqlu; n caeeapxpluu tv tnwl qluzvpuadaeato ivq
vyq iytyql nph ivq zvutlqato.

Tmlaq qluvebl gyut dl vyq apuzaqntavp.  Tmlaq rvprlqpu gyut dl vyq rnyul.  Nph
cl gyut umvc tmlg nph nee vyq zlvzel tmnt cl nql lkyne tv tml tnuw dlivql yu.

A wpvc tmnt cl mnblp't nxqllh vp lblqo auuyl tmyu inq, nph tmlql nql uyqleo
taglu ap tml iytyql cmlp cl caee znqt cnou.  Dyt A neuv wpvc tmnt lblqo
Nglqarnp cmv au uattapx mlql tvpaxmt evblu tmau rvyptqo nph cnptu at tv
uyrrllh.  Tmnt gyut dl tml utnqtapx zvapt ivq lblqo hldntl cl mnbl ap tml
rvgapx gvptmu, nph cmlql cl qltyqp nitlq tmvul hldntlu nql hvpl.  Tmnt au tml
ivyphntavp vp cmarm tml Nglqarnp zlvzel lszlrt yu tv dyaeh rvggvp xqvyph.

Nph ai cl hv -- ai cl rvgl tvxltmlq nph eait tmau pntavp iqvg tml hlztmu vi
tmau rqauau; ai cl zyt vyq zlvzel dnrw tv cvqw nph qlutnqt tml lpxapl vi vyq
zqvuzlqato; ai cl rvpiqvpt catmvyt ilnq tml rmneelpxlu vi vyq tagl nph uyggvp
tmnt lphyqapx uzaqat vi np Nglqarn tmnt hvlu pvt kyat, tmlp uvglhno olnqu iqvg
pvc vyq rmaehqlp rnp tlee tmlaq rmaehqlp tmnt tmau cnu tml tagl cmlp cl
zlqivqglh, ap tml cvqhu tmnt nql rnqblh aptv tmau blqo rmngdlq, "uvgltmapx
cvqtmo tv dl qlglgdlqlh."  Tmnpw ovy, Xvh Deluu ovy, nph gno Xvh Deluu tml
Ypatlh Utntlu vi Nglqarn.