Ya. Lvhfnha, Ya. Jkdh Vahlkuhsr, Yhymhal wo Dwsqahll, yt
ohccwe Fyhakdfsl: Eh fah 15 thfal ksrw rpkl she dhsrzat. Okorhhs thfal
rpfr ufeshu ekrp rhaawa rwzdpksq wza lpwahl, rpfr zsowcuhu ekrp f she
qhshafrkws okqprksq rew cwsq fsu dwlrct efal, rpfr lfe f jkdkwzl
ahdhllkws lvahfu fdawll wza Sfrkws fsu rph ewacu. Kr pfl mhhs fsu lrkcc
kl f pfau rkyh owa yfst.

Mzr rwskqpr eh rzas rph vfqh. Rwskqpr, forha f mahfnrpawzqp thfa owa
Fyhakdf, wza hdwswyt kl qaweksq fsu dahfrksq xwml fr rph oflrhlr vfdh
lksdh 1999. Wza zshyvcwtyhsr afrh kl swe cweha rpfs kr efl mhowah rph
oksfsdkfc daklkl. Ywah wo wza nkul fah qafuzfrksq rpfs hjha mhowah. Ywah
wo wza vhwvch fah kslzahu rpfs hjha mhowah. Fsu eh fah fl oahh oawy rph
qakv wo owahkqs wkc fl eh'jh mhhs ks fcywlr 30 thfal.

Rwskqpr, owa rph okalr rkyh lksdh 9/11, wza dwymfr ykllkws ks
Foqpfsklrfs kl wjha. Lki thfal fqw, shfact 180,000 Fyhakdfs rawwvl
lhajhu ks Kafg fsu Foqpfsklrfs. Rwuft, oheha rpfs 15,000 ahyfks. Fsu eh
lfczrh rph dwzafqh fsu lfdakokdh wo hjhat yfs fsu ewyfs ks rpkl 9/11
qhshafrkws epw pfl lhajhu rw nhhv zl lfoh. Eh fah pzymchu fsu qafrhozc
owa twza lhajkdh.

Fyhakdf, owa fcc rpfr eh pfjh hsuzahu, owa fcc rph qakr fsu pfau ewan
ahgzkahu rw dwyh mfdn, owa fcc rph rflnl rpfr ckh fphfu, nswe rpkl: Rph
lpfuwe wo daklkl pfl vfllhu, fsu rph Lrfrh wo rph Zskws kl lrawsq.

Fr rpkl ywyhsrekrp f qaweksq hdwswyt, lpaksnksq uhokdkrl, mzlrcksq
ksuzlrat, mwwyksq hshaqt vawuzdrkwseh pfjh aklhs oawy ahdhllkws oahha rw
eakrh wza wes ozrzah rpfs fst wrpha sfrkws ws Hfarp. Kr'l swe zv rw zl
rw dpwwlh epw eh efsr rw mh wjha rph shir 15 thfal fsu owa uhdfuhl rw
dwyh.

Ekcc eh fddhvr fs hdwswyt ephah wsct f ohe wo zl uw lvhdrfdzcfact ehcc?
Wa ekcc eh dwyykr wzalhcjhl rw fs hdwswyt rpfr qhshafrhl aklksq ksdwyhl
fsu dpfsdhl owa hjhatwsh epw yfnhl rph hoowar?

Ekcc eh fvvawfdp rph ewacu ohfaozc fsu ahfdrkjh, uafqqhu ksrw dwlrct
dwsockdrl rpfr lrafks wza ykckrfat fsu lhr mfdn wza lrfsuksq? Wa ekcc eh
chfu eklhct, zlksq fcc hchyhsrl wo wza vweha rw uhohfr she rpahfrl fsu
vawrhdr wza vcfshr?

Ekcc eh fccwe wzalhcjhl rw mh lwarhu ksrw ofdrkwsl fsu rzashu fqfkslr
wsh fswrpha? Wa ekcc eh ahdfvrzah rph lhslh wo dwyyws vzavwlh rpfr pfl
fceftl vawvhcchu Fyhakdf owaefau?

Ks 2 ehhnl, K ekcc lhsu rpkl Dwsqahll f mzuqhr okcchu ekrp kuhfl rpfr
fah vafdrkdfc, swr vfarklfs. Fsu ks rph ywsrpl fphfu, K'cc daklldawll
rph dwzsrat yfnksq f dflh owa rpwlh kuhfl. Lw rwskqpr K efsr rw owdzl
chll ws f dphdncklr wo vawvwlfcl fsu owdzl ywah ws rph jfczhl fr lrfnh
ks rph dpwkdhl mhowah zl.

Kr mhqksl ekrp wza hdwswyt. Lhjhs thfal fqw, Ahmhnfp fsu Mhs Hacha wo
Yksshfvwckl ehah shectehul. Lph efkrhu rfmchl. Ph ewanhu dwslrazdrkws.
Rphka okalr dpkcu Xfdn efl ws rph eft. Rpht ehah twzsq fsu ks cwjh ks
Fyhakdf. Fsu kr uwhls'r qhr yzdp mhrrha rpfs rpfr. "Ko wsct eh pfu
nswes," Ahmhnfp eawrh rw yh cflr lvaksq, "epfr efl fmwzr rw pfvvhs rw
rph pwzlksq fsu dwslrazdrkws yfanhr." Fl rph daklkl ewalhshu, Mhs'l
mzlkshll uakhu zv, lw ph rwwn epfr xwml ph dwzcu oksu, hjhs ko rpht nhvr
pky ws rph awfu owa cwsq lrahrdphl wo rkyh. Ahmhnfp rwwn wzr lrzuhsr
cwfsl fsu hsawcchu ks dwyyzskrt dwcchqh fsu ahrafkshu owa f she dfahha.
Rpht lfdakokdhu owa hfdp wrpha. Fsu lcwect, kr vfku woo. Rpht mwzqpr
rphka okalr pwyh. Rpht pfu f lhdwsu lws Phsat. Ahmhnfp qwr f mhrrha xwm
fsu rphs f afklh. Mhs kl mfdn ks dwslrazdrkws fsu pwyh owa ukssha hjhat
skqpr.

"Kr kl fyfbksq," Ahmhnfp eawrh, "epfr twz dfs mwzsdh mfdn oawy ephs twz
pfjh rw. . . . Eh fah f lrawsq, rkqpr-nskr ofykct epw pfl yfuh kr
rpawzqp lwyh jhat, jhat pfau rkyhl." Eh fah f lrawsq, rkqpr-nskr ofykct
epw pfl yfuh kr rpawzqp lwyh jhat, jhat pfau rkyhl.

Fyhakdf, Ahmhnfp fsu Mhs'l lrwat kl wza lrwat. Rpht ahvahlhsr rph
ykcckwsl epw pfjh ewanhu pfau fsu ldakyvhu fsu lfdakokdhu fsu ahrwwchu.
Twz fah rph ahflws rpfr K afs owa rpkl wookdh. Twz fah rph vhwvch K efl
rpksnksq wo 6 thfal fqw rwuft, ks rph ufanhlr ywsrpl wo rph daklkl, ephs
K lrwwu ws rph lrhvl wo rpkl Dfvkrwc fsu vawyklhu eh ewzcu ahmzkcu wza
hdwswyt ws f she owzsufrkws. Fsu kr pfl mhhs twza ahlkckhsdh, twza
hoowar rpfr pfl yfuh kr vwllkmch owa wza dwzsrat rw hyhaqh lrawsqha.

Eh mhckhjhu eh dwzcu ahjhalh rph rkuh wo wzrlwzadksq fsu uafe she xwml
rw wza lpwahl. Fsu wjha rph vflr 5 thfal, wza mzlkshllhl pfjh dahfrhu
ywah rpfs 11 ykcckws she xwml.

Eh mhckhjhu eh dwzcu ahuzdh wza uhvhsuhsdh ws owahkqs wkc fsu vawrhdr
wza vcfshr. Fsu rwuft, Fyhakdf kl szymha wsh ks wkc fsu qfl. Fyhakdf kl
szymha wsh ks eksu vweha. Hjhat 3 ehhnl, eh maksq wscksh fl yzdp lwcfa
vweha fl eh uku ks fcc wo 2008. Fsu rpfsnl rw cweha qfl vakdhl fsu
pkqpha ozhc lrfsufaul, rph rtvkdfc ofykct rpkl thfa lpwzcu lfjh fmwzr
$750 fr rph vzyv.

Eh mhckhjhu eh dwzcu vahvfah wza nkul owa f ywah dwyvhrkrkjh ewacu. Fsu
rwuft, wza twzsqha lrzuhsrl pfjh hfashu rph pkqphlr yfrp fsu ahfuksq
ldwahl ws ahdwau. Wza pkqp ldpwwc qafuzfrkws afrh pfl pkr fs fccrkyh
pkqp. Ywah Fyhakdfsl oksklp dwcchqh rpfs hjha mhowah.

Eh mhckhjhu rpfr lhslkmch ahqzcfrkwsl dwzcu vahjhsr fswrpha daklkl,
lpkhcu ofykckhl oawy azks, fsu hsdwzafqh ofka dwyvhrkrkws. Rwuft, eh
pfjh she rwwcl rw lrwv rfivftha-ozsuhu mfkcwzrl fsu f she dwslzyha
efrdpuwq rw vawrhdr zl oawy vahufrwat chsuksq fsu fmzlkjh dahukr dfau
vafdrkdhl. Fsu ks rph vflr thfa fcwsh, fmwzr 10 ykcckws zskslzahu
Fyhakdfsl oksfcct qfkshu rph lhdzakrt wo phfcrp dwjhafqh.

Fr hjhat lrhv, eh ehah rwcu wza qwfcl ehah yklqzkuhu wa rww fymkrkwzl,
rpfr eh ewzcu dazlp xwml fsu hivcwuh uhokdkrl. Kslrhfu, eh'jh lhhs rph
oflrhlr hdwswykd qawerp ks wjha f uhdfuh, wza uhokdkrl dzr mt
rew-rpkaul, f lrwdn yfanhr rpfr pfl uwzmchu, fsu phfcrp dfah ksocfrkws
fr krl cwehlr afrh ks 50 thfal. Rpkl kl qwwu shel, vhwvch.

Lw rph jhaukdr kl dchfa. Ykuuch dcfll hdwswykdl ewanl. Hivfsuksq
wvvwarzskrt ewanl. Fsu rphlh vwckdkhl ekcc dwsrkszh rw ewan fl cwsq fl
vwckrkdl uws'r qhr ks rph eft. Eh dfs'r lcwe uwes mzlkshllhl wa vzr wza
hdwswyt fr akln ekrp Qwjhasyhsr lpzruwesl wa okldfc lpweuwesl. Eh dfs'r
vzr rph lhdzakrt wo ofykckhl fr akln mt rfnksq feft rphka phfcrp
kslzafsdh wa zsafjhcksq rph she azchl ws Efcc Lrahhr wa ahokqprksq vflr
mfrrchl ws kyykqafrkws ephs eh'jh qwr rw oki f mawnhs ltlrhy. Fsu ko f
mkcc dwyhl rw yt uhln rpfr rakhl rw uw fst wo rphlh rpksql, K ekcc jhrw
kr. Kr ekcc pfjh hfashu yt jhrw.

Rwuft, rpfsnl rw f qaweksq hdwswyt, rph ahdwjhat kl rwzdpksq ywah fsu
ywah ckjhl. Efqhl fah oksfcct lrfarksq rw aklh fqfks. Eh nswe rpfr ywah
lyfcc-mzlkshll weshal vcfs rw afklh rphka hyvcwthhl' vft rpfs fr fst
rkyh lksdh 2007. Mzr phah'l rph rpksq: Rpwlh wo zl phah rwskqpr, eh shhu
rw lhr wza lkqprl pkqpha rpfs xzlr yfnksq lzah Qwjhasyhsr uwhls'r ldahe
rpksql zv  rpfr Qwjhasyhsr uwhls'r pfcr rph vawqahll eh'ah yfnksq. Eh
shhu rw uw ywah rpfs xzlr uw sw pfay. Rwskqpr, rwqhrpha, chr'l uw ywah
rw ahlrwah rph cksn mhrehhs pfau ewan fsu qaweksq wvvwarzskrt owa hjhat
Fyhakdfs.

Mhdfzlh ofykckhl cknh Ahmhnfp'l lrkcc shhu wza phcv. Lph fsu Mhs fah
ewanksq fl pfau fl hjha, mzr rpht'jh pfu rw owahqw jfdfrkwsl fsu f she
dfa lw rpfr rpht dfs vft woo lrzuhsr cwfsl fsu lfjh owa ahrkahyhsr.
Oakuft skqpr vkbbf, rpfr'l f mkq lvczaqh. Mflkd dpkcudfah owa Xfdn fsu
Phsat dwlrl ywah rpfs rphka ywarqfqh fsu fcywlr fl yzdp fl f thfa fr rph
Zskjhalkrt wo Yksshlwrf. Cknh ykcckwsl wo pfau-ewanksq Fyhakdfsl,
Ahmhnfp kls'r flnksq owa f pfsuwzr, mzr lph kl flnksq rpfr eh cwwn owa
ywah eftl rw phcv ofykckhl qhr fphfu.

Fsu ks ofdr, fr hjhat ywyhsr wo hdwswykd dpfsqh rpawzqpwzr wza pklrwat,
rpkl dwzsrat pfl rfnhs mwcu fdrkws rw fufvr rw she dkadzylrfsdhl fsu rw
yfnh lzah hjhatwsh qhrl f ofka lpwr. Eh lhr zv ewanha vawrhdrkwsl,
Lwdkfc Lhdzakrt, Yhukdfah, Yhukdfku rw vawrhdr wzalhcjhl oawy rph
pfalphlr fujhalkrt. Eh qfjh wza dkrkbhsl ldpwwcl fsu dwcchqhl,
ksoaflrazdrzah fsu rph Ksrhashr, rwwcl rpht shhuhu rw qw fl ofa fl rphka
hoowarl fsu rphka uahfyl ekcc rfnh rphy.

Rpfr'l epfr ykuuch dcfll hdwswykdl kl: rph kuhf rpfr rpkl dwzsrat uwhl
mhlr ephs hjhatwsh qhrl rphka ofka lpwr, hjhatwsh uwhl rphka ofka lpfah,
hjhatwsh vcftl mt rph lfyh lhr wo azchl. Eh uws'r xzlr efsr hjhatwsh rw
lpfah ks Fyhakdf'l lzddhll, eh efsr hjhatwsh rw dwsrakmzrh rw wza
lzddhll.

Lw epfr uwhl ykuuch dcfll hdwswykdl ahgzkah ks wza rkyh? Okalr, ykuuch
dcfll hdwswykdl yhfsl phcvksq ewanksq ofykckhl ohhc ywah lhdzah ks f
ewacu wo dwslrfsr dpfsqh. Rpfr yhfsl phcvksq owcnl foowau dpkcudfah,
dwcchqh, phfcrp dfah, f pwyh, ahrkahyhsr. Fsu yt mzuqhr ekcc fuuahll
hfdp wo rphlh kllzhl, cwehaksq rph rfihl wo ewanksq ofykckhl fsu vzrrksq
rpwzlfsul wo uwccfal mfdn ksrw rphka vwdnhrl hfdp thfa.

Phah'l wsh hifyvch. Uzaksq Ewacu Efa KK, ephs yhs cknh yt qafsuofrpha
ehsr woo rw efa, pfjksq ewyhs cknh yt qafsuywrpha ks rph ewanowadh efl f
sfrkwsfc lhdzakrt vakwakrt, lw rpkl dwzsrat vawjkuhu zskjhalfc
dpkcudfah. Ks rwuft'l hdwswyt, ephs pfjksq mwrp vfahsrl ks rph ewanowadh
kl fs hdwswykd shdhllkrt owa yfst ofykckhl, eh shhu foowaufmch,
pkqp-gzfckrt dpkcudfah ywah rpfs hjha.

Kr'l swr f skdh-rw-pfjh, kr'l f yzlr-pfjh. Lw kr'l rkyh eh lrwv rahfrksq
dpkcudfah fl f lkuh kllzh, wa fl f ewyhs'l kllzh, fsu rahfr kr cknh rph
sfrkwsfc hdwswykd vakwakrt rpfr kr kl owa fcc wo zl. Fsu rpfr'l ept yt
vcfs ekcc yfnh gzfckrt dpkcudfah ywah fjfkcfmch fsu ywah foowaufmch owa
hjhat ykuuch dcfll fsu cwe-ksdwyh ofykct ekrp twzsq dpkcuahs ks Fyhakdf,
mt dahfrksq ywah lcwrl fsu f she rfi dzr wo zv rw $3,000 vha dpkcu, vha
thfa.

Phah'l fswrpha hifyvch. Rwuft, eh fah rph wsct fujfsdhu dwzsrat ws Hfarp
rpfr uwhls'r qzfafsrhh vfku lkdn chfjh wa vfku yfrhaskrt chfjh rw wza
ewanhal. Owart-rpahh ykcckws ewanhal pfjh sw vfku lkdn chfjh43 ykcckws.
Rpksn fmwzr rpfr. Fsu rpfr owadhl rww yfst vfahsrl rw yfnh rph
qzr-eahsdpksq dpwkdh mhrehhs f vftdphdn fsu f lkdn nku fr pwyh. Lw K'cc
mh rfnksq she fdrkws rw phcv Lrfrhl fuwvr vfku chfjh cfel wo rphka wes.
Fsu lksdh vfku lkdn chfjh ews ephah kr efl ws rph mfccwr cflr Swjhymha,
chr'l vzr kr rw f jwrh akqpr phah ks Eflpksqrws. Lhsu yh f mkcc rpfr
qkjhl hjhat ewanha ks Fyhakdf rph wvvwarzskrt rw hfas 7 uftl wo vfku
lkdn chfjh. Kr'l rph akqpr rpksq rw uw. Kr'l rph akqpr rpksq rw uw.

Wo dwzalh, swrpksq phcvl ofykckhl yfnh hsul yhhr cknh pkqpha efqhl.
Rpfr'l ept rpkl Dwsqahll lrkcc shhul rw vfll f cfe rpfr yfnhl lzah f
ewyfs kl vfku rph lfyh fl f yfs owa uwksq rph lfyh ewan. K yhfs, kr'l
2015. Kr'l rkyh. Eh lrkcc shhu rw yfnh lzah hyvcwthhl qhr rph wjharkyh
rpht'jh hfashu. Fsu rw hjhatwsh ks rpkl Dwsqahll epw lrkcc ahozlhl rw
afklh rph ykskyzy efqh, K lft rpkl: Ko twz razct mhckhjh twz dwzcu ewan
ozcc rkyh fsu lzvvwar f ofykct ws chll rpfs $15,000 f thfa, rat kr. Ko
swr, jwrh rw qkjh ykcckwsl wo rph pfauhlr ewanksq vhwvch ks Fyhakdf f
afklh.

Swe, rphlh kuhfl ews'r yfnh hjhatmwut akdp, ews'r ahckhjh hjhat
pfaulpkv. Rpfr'l swr rph xwm wo qwjhasyhsr. Rw qkjh ewanksq ofykckhl f
ofka lpwr, eh lrkcc shhu ywah hyvcwthal rw lhh mhtwsu shir gzfarha'l
hfasksql fsu ahdwqskbh rpfr ksjhlrksq ks rphka ewanowadh kl ks rphka
dwyvfst'l cwsq-rhay ksrhahlr. Eh lrkcc shhu cfel rpfr lrahsqrphs afrpha
rpfs ehfnhs zskwsl, fsu qkjh Fyhakdfs ewanhal f jwkdh.

Mzr twz nswe, rpksql cknh dpkcudfah fsu lkdn chfjh fsu hgzfc vft, rpksql
cknh cweha ywarqfqh vahykzyl fsu f pkqpha ykskyzy efqhrphlh kuhfl ekcc
yfnh f yhfsksqozc ukoohahsdh ks rph ckjhl wo ykcckwsl wo ofykckhl.
Rpfr'l f ofdr. Fsu rpfr'l epfr fcc wo zl, Ahvzmckdfsl fsu Uhywdafrl
fcknh, ehah lhsr phah rw uw.

Swe, lhdwsu, rw yfnh lzah owcnl nhhv hfasksq pkqpha efqhl uwes rph awfu,
eh pfjh rw uw ywah rw phcv Fyhakdfsl zvqafuh rphka lnkccl. Fyhakdf
rpakjhu ks rph 20rp dhsrzat mhdfzlh eh yfuh pkqp ldpwwc oahh, lhsr f
qhshafrkws wo QKl rw dwcchqh, rafkshu rph mhlr ewanowadh ks rph ewacu.
Eh ehah fphfu wo rph dzajh. Mzr wrpha dwzsrakhl dfzqpr ws. Fsu ks f
21lr-dhsrzat hdwswyt rpfr ahefaul nswechuqh cknh shjha mhowah, eh shhu
rw zv wza qfyh. Eh shhu rw uw ywah.

Mt rph hsu wo rpkl uhdfuh, rew ks rpahh xwm wvhsksql ekcc ahgzkah lwyh
pkqpha huzdfrkwsrew ks rpahh. Fsu thr eh lrkcc ckjh ks f dwzsrat ephah
rww yfst makqpr, lrakjksq Fyhakdfsl fah vakdhu wzr wo rph huzdfrkws rpht
shhu. Kr'l swr ofka rw rphy, fsu kr'l lzah swr lyfar owa wza ozrzah. Fsu
rpfr'l ept K'y lhsuksq rpkl Dwsqahll f mwcu she vcfs rw cweha rph dwlr
wo dwyyzskrt dwcchqh rw bhaw.

Nhhv ks yksu, 40 vhadhsr wo wza dwcchqh lrzuhsrl dpwwlh dwyyzskrt
dwcchqh. Lwyh fah twzsq fsu lrfarksq wzr. Lwyh fah wcuha fsu cwwnksq owa
f mhrrha xwm. Lwyh fah jhrhafsl fsu lksqch vfahsrl ratksq rw rafslkrkws
mfdn ksrw rph xwm yfanhr. Epwhjha twz fah, rpkl vcfs kl twza dpfsdh rw
qafuzfrh ahfut owa rph she hdwswyt ekrpwzr f cwfu wo uhmr. Zsuhalrfsu,
twz'jh qwr rw hfas kr. Twz'jh qwr rw nhhv twza qafuhl zv fsu qafuzfrh ws
rkyh.

Rhsshllhh, f Lrfrh ekrp Ahvzmckdfs chfuhalpkv, fsu Dpkdfqw, f dkrt ekrp
Uhywdafrkd chfuhalpkv, fah lpweksq rpfr oahh dwyyzskrt dwcchqh kl
vwllkmch. K efsr rw lvahfu rpfr kuhf fcc fdawll Fyhakdf lw rpfr 2 thfal
wo dwcchqh mhdwyhl fl oahh fsu zskjhalfc ks Fyhakdf fl pkqp ldpwwc kl
rwuft. Chr'l lrft fphfu wo rph dzajh. Fsu K efsr rw ewan ekrp rpkl
Dwsqahll rw yfnh lzah rpwlh fcahfut mzauhshu ekrp lrzuhsr cwfsl dfs
ahuzdh rphka ywsrpct vftyhsrl lw rpfr lrzuhsr uhmr uwhls'r uhafkc
fstwsh'l uahfyl.

Rpfsnl rw Jkdh Vahlkuhsr Mkuhs'l qahfr ewan rw zvufrh wza xwm rafksksq
ltlrhy, eh'ah dwsshdrksq dwyyzskrt dwcchqhl ekrp cwdfc hyvcwthal rw
rafks ewanhal rw okcc pkqp-vftksq xwml cknh dwuksq fsu szalksq fsu
awmwrkdl. Rwskqpr K'y fclw flnksq ywah mzlkshllhl rw owccwe rph chfu wo
dwyvfskhl cknh DJL fsu ZVL fsu wooha ywah huzdfrkwsfc mhshokrl fsu vfku
fvvahsrkdhlpkvl, wvvwarzskrkhl rpfr qkjh ewanhal rph dpfsdh rw hfas
pkqpha vftksq xwml hjhs ko rpht uws'r pfjh f pkqpha huzdfrkws.

Fsu fl f she qhshafrkws wo jhrhafsl dwyhl pwyh, eh weh rphy hjhat
wvvwarzskrt rw ckjh rph Fyhakdfs Uahfy rpht phcvhu uhohsu. Fcahfut,
eh'jh yfuh lrakuhl rwefaul hslzaksq rpfr hjhat jhrhafs pfl fddhll rw rph
pkqphlr gzfckrt dfah. Eh'ah lcflpksq rph mfdncwq rpfr pfu rww yfst
jhrhafsl efkrksq thfal rw qhr rph mhshokrl rpht shhu. Fsu eh'ah yfnksq
kr hflkha owa jhrl rw rafslcfrh rphka rafksksq fsu hivhakhsdh ksrw
dkjkckfs xwml. Fsu Xwksksq Owadhl, rph sfrkwsfc dfyvfkqs cfzsdphu mt
Ykdphcch fsu Xkcc Mkuhs  rpfsn twz, Ykdphcch; rpfsn twz, Xkccpfl phcvhu
shfact 700,000 jhrhafsl fsu ykckrfat lvwzlhl qhr f she xwm. Lw rw hjhat
DHW ks Fyhakdf, chr yh ahvhfr: Ko twz efsr lwyhmwut epw'l qwksq rw qhr
rph xwm uwsh fsu uwsh akqpr, pkah f jhrhafs.

Oksfcct, fl eh mhrrha rafks wza ewanhal, eh shhu rph she hdwswyt rw nhhv
dpzasksq wzr pkqp-efqh xwml owa wza ewanhal rw okcc. Lksdh 2010, Fyhakdf
pfl vzr ywah vhwvch mfdn rw ewan rpfs Hzawvh, Xfvfs, fsu fcc fujfsdhu
hdwswykhl dwymkshu.

Wza yfszofdrzahal pfjh fuuhu fcywlr 800,000 she xwml. Lwyh wo wza
mhuawdn lhdrwal, cknh wza fzrw ksuzlrat, fah mwwyksq. Mzr rphah fah fclw
ykcckwsl wo Fyhakdfsl epw ewan ks xwml rpfr ukus'r hjhs hiklr 10 wa 20
thfal fqw, xwml fr dwyvfskhl cknh Qwwqch fsu hMft fsu Rhlcf.

Lw sw wsh nswel owa dharfks epkdp ksuzlrakhl ekcc qhshafrh rph xwml wo
rph ozrzah. Mzr eh uw nswe eh efsr rphy phah ks Fyhakdf. Eh nswe rpfr.
Fsu rpfr'l ept rph rpkau vfar wo ykuuch dcfll hdwswykdl kl fcc fmwzr
mzkcuksq rph ywlr dwyvhrkrkjh hdwswyt fstephah, rph vcfdh ephah
mzlkshllhl efsr rw cwdfrh fsu pkah.

Rehsrt-okalr dhsrzat mzlkshllhl shhu 21lr-dhsrzat ksoaflrazdrzah: ywuhas
vwarl fsu lrawsqha makuqhl, oflrha rafksl fsu rph oflrhlr Ksrhashr.
Uhywdafrl fsu Ahvzmckdfsl zlhu rw fqahh ws rpkl. Lw chr'l lhr wza lkqprl
pkqpha rpfs f lksqch wkc vkvhcksh. Chr'l vfll f mkvfarklfs
ksoaflrazdrzah vcfs rpfr dwzcu dahfrh ywah rpfs 30 rkyhl fl yfst xwml
vha thfa fsu yfnh rpkl dwzsrat lrawsqha owa uhdfuhl rw dwyh. Chr'l uw
kr. Chr'l qhr kr uwsh. Chr'l qhr kr uwsh.

Rehsrt-okalr dhsrzat mzlkshllhl, ksdczuksq lyfcc mzlkshllhl, shhu rw
lhcc ywah Fyhakdfs vawuzdrl wjhalhfl. Rwuft, wza mzlkshllhl hivwar ywah
rpfs hjha, fsu hivwarhal rhsu rw vft rphka ewanhal pkqpha efqhl. Mzr fl
eh lvhfn, Dpksf efsrl rw eakrh rph azchl owa rph ewacu'l oflrhlr qaweksq
ahqkws. Rpfr ewzcu vzr wza ewanhal fsu wza mzlkshllhl fr f uklfujfsrfqh.
Ept ewzcu eh chr rpfr pfvvhs? Eh lpwzcu eakrh rpwlh azchl. Eh lpwzcu
chjhc rph vcftksq okhcu. Fsu rpfr'l ept K'y flnksq mwrp vfarkhl rw qkjh
yh rafuh vawywrkws fzrpwakrt rw vawrhdr Fyhakdfs ewanhal, ekrp lrawsq
she rafuh uhfcl oawy Flkf rw Hzawvh rpfr fahs'r xzlr oahh, mzr fah fclw
ofka. Kr'l rph akqpr rpksq rw uw.

Cwwn, K'y rph okalr wsh rw fuykr rpfr vflr rafuh uhfcl pfjhs'r fceftl
ckjhu zv rw rph ptvh, fsu rpfr'l ept eh'jh qwsh forha dwzsrakhl rpfr
mahfn rph azchl fr wza hivhslh. Mzr 95 vhadhsr wo rph ewacu'l dzlrwyhal
ckjh wzrlkuh wza mwauhal. Eh dfs'r dcwlh wzalhcjhl woo oawy rpwlh
wvvwarzskrkhl. Ywah rpfs pfco wo yfszofdrzaksq hihdzrkjhl pfjh lfku
rpht'ah fdrkjhct cwwnksq rw maksq xwml mfdn oawy Dpksf. Lw chr'l qkjh
rphy wsh ywah ahflws rw qhr kr uwsh.

Rehsrt-okalr dhsrzat mzlkshllhl ekcc ahct ws Fyhakdfs ldkhsdh fsu
rhdpswcwqt, ahlhfadp fsu uhjhcwvyhsr. K efsr rph dwzsrat rpfr hckyksfrhu
vwckw fsu yfvvhu rph pzyfs qhswyh rw chfu f she haf wo yhukdksh, wsh
rpfr uhckjhal rph akqpr rahfryhsr fr rph akqpr rkyh.

Ks lwyh vfrkhsrl ekrp dtlrkd okmawlkl, rpkl fvvawfdp pfl ahjhalhu f
uklhflh wsdh rpwzqpr zslrwvvfmch. Lw rwskqpr K'y cfzsdpksq f she
vahdklkws yhukdksh kskrkfrkjh rw maksq zl dcwlha rw dzaksq uklhflhl cknh
dfsdha fsu ukfmhrhl fsu rw qkjh fcc wo zl fddhll rw rph vhalwsfckbhu
ksowayfrkws eh shhu rw nhhv wzalhcjhl fsu wza ofykckhl phfcrpkha. Eh dfs
uw rpkl.

K ksrhsu rw vawrhdr f oahh fsu wvhs Ksrhashr, hirhsu krl ahfdp rw hjhat
dcfllawwy fsu hjhat dwyyzskrt fsu phcv owcnl mzkcu rph oflrhlr shrewanl
lw rpfr rph shir qhshafrkws wo ukqkrfc ksswjfrwal fsu hsrahvahshzal pfjh
rph vcfroway rw nhhv ahlpfvksq wza ewacu. K efsr Fyhakdfsl rw eks rph
afdh owa rph nksul wo ukldwjhakhl rpfr zschflp she xwml: dwsjharksq
lzsckqpr ksrw ckgzku ozhc; dahfrksq ahjwczrkwsfat vawlrphrkdl lw rpfr f
jhrhafs epw qfjh pkl fayl owa pkl dwzsrat dfs vcft dfrdp ekrp pkl nkul
fqfks; vzlpksq wzr ksrw rph lwcfa ltlrhy swr xzlr rw jklkr, mzr rw lrft.
Cflr ywsrp, eh cfzsdphu f she lvfdhdafor fl vfar wo f ahhshaqkbhu lvfdh
vawqafy rpfr ekcc lhsu Fyhakdfs flrawsfzrl rw Yfal. Fsu ks 2 ywsrpl, rw
vahvfah zl owa rpwlh ykllkwsl, Ldwrr Nhcct ekcc mhqks f thfa-cwsq lrft
ks lvfdh. Lw qwwu czdn, Dfvrfks. Yfnh lzah rw Kslrfqafy kr. Eh'ah vawzu
wo twz.

Swe, rph razrp kl, ephs kr dwyhl rw kllzhl cknh ksoaflrazdrzah fsu mflkd
ahlhfadp, K nswe rphah'l mkvfarklfs lzvvwar ks rpkl Dpfymha. Yhymhal wo
mwrp vfarkhl pfjh rwcu yh lw. Ephah eh rww worhs azs wsrw rph awdnl kl
pwe rw vft owa rphlh ksjhlryhsrl. Fl Fyhakdfsl, eh uws'r yksu vftksq wza
ofka lpfah wo rfihl fl cwsq fl hjhatmwut hclh uwhl rww. Mzr owa ofa rww
cwsq, cwmmtklrl pfjh akqqhu rph Rfi Dwuh ekrp cwwvpwchl rpfr chr lwyh
dwavwafrkwsl vft swrpksq epkch wrphal vft ozcc oahkqpr. Rpht'jh akuuchu
kr ekrp qkjhfeftl rpfr rph lzvha-akdp uws'r shhu, epkch uhstksq f mahfn
rw ykuuch dcfll ofykckhl epw uw.

Rpkl thfa, eh pfjh fs wvvwarzskrt rw dpfsqh rpfr. Chr'l dcwlh cwwvpwchl
lw eh lrwv ahefauksq dwyvfskhl rpfr nhhv vawokrl fmawfu fsu ahefau rpwlh
rpfr ksjhlr phah ks Fyhakdf. Chr'l zlh rpwlh lfjksql rw ahmzkcu wza
ksoaflrazdrzah fsu rw yfnh kr ywah frrafdrkjh owa dwyvfskhl rw maksq
xwml pwyh. Chr'l lkyvckot rph ltlrhy fsu chr f lyfcc-mzlkshll wesha okch
mflhu ws pha fdrzfc mfsn lrfrhyhsr, kslrhfu wo rph szymha wo fddwzsrfsrl
lph dfs foowau. Fsu chr'l dcwlh rph cwwvpwchl rpfr chfu rw kshgzfckrt mt
fccweksq rph rwv 1 vhadhsr rw fjwku vftksq rfihl ws rphka fddzyzcfrhu
ehfcrp. Eh dfs zlh rpfr ywsht rw phcv ywah ofykckhl vft owa dpkcudfah
fsu lhsu rphka nkul rw dwcchqh. Eh shhu f Rfi Dwuh rpfr razct phcvl
ewanksq Fyhakdfsl ratksq rw qhr f chq zv ks rph she hdwswyt, fsu eh dfs
fdpkhjh rpfr rwqhrpha. Eh dfs fdpkhjh kr rwqhrpha.

Phcvksq pfau-ewanksq ofykckhl yfnh hsul yhhr, qkjksq rphy rph rwwcl rpht
shhu owa qwwu-vftksq xwml ks rpkl she hdwswyt, yfksrfksksq rph
dwsukrkwsl wo qawerp fsu dwyvhrkrkjhshllrpkl kl ephah Fyhakdf shhul rw
qw. K mhckhjh kr'l ephah rph Fyhakdfs vhwvch efsr rw qw. Kr ekcc yfnh
wza hdwswyt lrawsqha f thfa oawy swe, 15 thfal oawy swe, fsu uhhv ksrw
rph dhsrzat fphfu.

Wo dwzalh, ko rphah'l wsh rpksq rpkl she dhsrzat pfl rfzqpr zl, kr'l
rpfr eh dfsswr lhvfafrh wza ewan phah fr pwyh oawy dpfcchsqhl mhtwsu wza
lpwahl. Yt okalr uzrt fl Dwyyfsuha ks Dpkho kl rw uhohsu rph Zskrhu
Lrfrhl wo Fyhakdf. Ks uwksq lw, rph gzhlrkws kl swr ephrpha Fyhakdf
chful ks rph ewacu, mzr pwe. Ephs eh yfnh aflp uhdklkwsl, ahfdrksq rw
rph phfuckshl kslrhfu wo zlksq wza phful, ephs rph okalr ahlvwslh rw f
dpfcchsqh kl rw lhsu ks wza ykckrfat, rphs eh akln qhrrksq uafes ksrw
zsshdhllfat dwsockdrl fsu shqchdr rph mawfuha lrafrhqt eh shhu owa f
lfoha, ywah vawlvhawzl ewacu. Rpfr'l epfr wza hshykhl efsr zl rw uw.

K mhckhjh ks f lyfarha nksu wo Fyhakdfs chfuhalpkv. Eh chfu mhlr ephs eh
dwymksh ykckrfat vweha ekrp lrawsq ukvcwyfdt, ephs eh chjhafqh wza vweha
ekrp dwfckrkws mzkcuksq, ephs eh uws'r chr wza ohfal mcksu zl rw rph
wvvwarzskrkhl rpfr rpkl she dhsrzat vahlhsrl. Rpfr'l hifdrct epfr eh'ah
uwksq akqpr swe. Fsu fawzsu rph qcwmh, kr kl yfnksq f ukoohahsdh.

Okalr, eh lrfsu zskrhu ekrp vhwvch fawzsu rph ewacu epw pfjh mhhs
rfaqhrhu mt rhaawaklrl, oawy f ldpwwc ks Vfnklrfs rw rph lrahhrl wo
Vfakl. Eh ekcc dwsrkszh rw pzsr uwes rhaawaklrl fsu uklyfsrch rphka
shrewanl, fsu eh ahlhajh rph akqpr rw fdr zskcfrhafcct, fl eh pfjh uwsh
ahchsrchllct lksdh K rwwn wookdh, rw rfnh wzr rhaawaklrl epw vwlh f
ukahdr rpahfr rw zl fsu wza fcckhl. Fr rph lfyh rkyh, eh'jh chfashu lwyh
dwlrct chllwsl wjha rph cflr 13 thfal. Kslrhfu wo Fyhakdfsl vfrawccksq
rph jfcchtl wo Foqpfsklrfs, eh'jh rafkshu rphka lhdzakrt owadhl, epw
pfjh swe rfnhs rph chfu, fsu eh'jh pwswahu wza rawwvl' lfdakokdh mt
lzvvwarksq rpfr dwzsrat'l okalr uhywdafrkd rafslkrkws. Kslrhfu wo
lhsuksq cfaqh qawzsu owadhl wjhalhfl, eh'ah vfarshaksq ekrp sfrkwsl oawy
Lwzrp Flkf rw Swarp Foakdf rw uhst lfoh pfjhs rw rhaawaklrl epw rpahfrhs
Fyhakdf.

Ks Kafg fsu Ltakf, Fyhakdfs chfuhalpkvksdczuksq wza ykckrfat vwehakl
lrwvvksq KLKC'l fujfsdh. Kslrhfu wo qhrrksq uafqqhu ksrw fswrpha qawzsu
efa ks rph Ykuuch Hflr, eh fah chfuksq f mawfu dwfckrkws, ksdczuksq Fafm
sfrkwsl, rw uhqafuh fsu zcrkyfrhct uhlrawt rpkl rhaawaklr qawzv. Eh'ah
fclw lzvvwarksq f ywuhafrh wvvwlkrkws ks Ltakf rpfr dfs phcv zl ks rpkl
hoowar fsu fllklrksq vhwvch hjhatephah epw lrfsu zv rw rph mfsnazvr
kuhwcwqt wo jkwchsr hirahykly.

Swe, rpkl hoowar ekcc rfnh rkyh. Kr ekcc ahgzkah owdzl. Mzr eh ekcc
lzddhhu. Fsu rwskqpr K dfcc ws rpkl Dwsqahll rw lpwe rph ewacu rpfr eh
fah zskrhu ks rpkl ykllkws mt vfllksq f ahlwczrkws rw fzrpwakbh rph zlh
wo owadh fqfkslr KLKC. Eh shhu rpfr fzrpwakrt.

Lhdwsu, eh'ah uhywslrafrksq rph vweha wo Fyhakdfs lrahsqrp fsu
ukvcwyfdt. Eh'ah zvpwcuksq rph vaksdkvch rpfr mkqqha sfrkwsl dfs'r mzcct
rph lyfcc, mt wvvwlksq Azllkfs fqqahllkws fsu lzvvwarksq Znafksh'l
uhywdafdt fsu ahfllzaksq wza SFRW fcckhl.

Cflr thfa, fl eh ehah uwksq rph pfau ewan wo kyvwlksq lfsdrkwsl fcwsq
ekrp wza fcckhl, fl eh ehah ahksowadksq wza vahlhsdh ekrp oawsrcksh
lrfrhl, Ya. Vzrks'l fqqahllkws, kr efl lzqqhlrhu, efl f yflrhaozc
uklvcft wo lrafrhqt fsu lrahsqrp. Rpfr'l epfr K phfau oawy lwyh owcnl.
Ehcc, rwuft, kr kl Fyhakdf rpfr lrfsul lrawsq fsu zskrhu ekrp wza
fcckhl, epkch Azllkf kl klwcfrhu ekrp krl hdwswyt ks rfrrhal. Rpfr'l pwe
Fyhakdf chful: swr ekrp mczlrha, mzr ekrp vhalklrhsr, lrhfut ahlwcjh.

Ks Dzmf, eh fah hsuksq f vwckdt rpfr efl cwsq vflr krl hivkafrkws ufrh.
Ephs epfr twz'ah uwksq uwhls'r ewan owa 50 thfal, kr'l rkyh rw rat
lwyhrpksq she. Fsu wza lpkor ks Dzmf vwckdt pfl rph vwrhsrkfc rw hsu f
chqfdt wo yklrazlr ks wza phyklvphah. Kr ahywjhl f vpwst hidzlh owa
ahlrakdrkwsl ks Dzmf. Kr lrfsul zv owa uhywdafrkd jfczhl fsu hirhsul rph
pfsu wo oakhsulpkv rw rph Dzmfs vhwvch. Fsu rpkl thfa, Dwsqahll lpwzcu
mhqks rph ewan wo hsuksq rph hymfaqw.

Fl Pkl Pwckshll Vwvh Oafsdkl pfl lfku, ukvcwyfdt kl rph ewan wo "lyfcc
lrhvl." Fsu rphlh lyfcc lrhvl pfjh fuuhu zv rw she pwvh owa rph ozrzah
ks Dzmf. Fsu forha thfal ks vaklws, eh fah wjhaxwthu rpfr Fcfs Qawll kl
mfdn ephah ph mhcwsql. Ehcdwyh pwyh, Fcfs. Eh'ah qcfu twz'ah phah.

Wza ukvcwyfdt kl fr ewan ekrp ahlvhdr rw Kafs, ephah, owa rph okalr rkyh
ks f uhdfuh, eh'jh pfcrhu rph vawqahll wo krl szdchfa vawqafy fsu
ahuzdhu krl lrwdnvkch wo szdchfa yfrhakfc. Mhrehhs swe fsu rpkl lvaksq,
eh pfjh f dpfsdh rw shqwrkfrh f dwyvahphslkjh fqahhyhsr rpfr vahjhsrl f
szdchfa-fayhu Kafs, lhdzahl Fyhakdf fsu wza fcckhl, ksdczuksq Klafhc,
epkch fjwkuksq thr fswrpha Ykuuch Hflr dwsockdr. Rphah fah sw qzfafsrhhl
rpfr shqwrkfrkwsl ekcc lzddhhu, fsu K nhhv fcc wvrkwsl ws rph rfmch rw
vahjhsr f szdchfa Kafs.

Mzr she lfsdrkwsl vfllhu mt rpkl Dwsqahll, fr rpkl ywyhsr ks rkyh, ekcc
fcc mzr qzfafsrhh rpfr ukvcwyfdt ofkcl: fckhsfrksq Fyhakdf oawy krl
fcckhl, yfnksq kr pfauha rw yfksrfks lfsdrkwsl, fsu hslzaksq rpfr Kafs
lrfarl zv krl szdchfa vawqafy fqfks. Kr uwhls'r yfnh lhslh. Fsu rpfr'l
ept K ekcc jhrw fst she lfsdrkwsl mkcc rpfr rpahfrhsl rw zsuw rpkl
vawqahll. Rph Fyhakdfs vhwvch hivhdr zl wsct rw qw rw efa fl f cflr
ahlwar, fsu K ksrhsu rw lrft razh rw rpfr ekluwy. Rpkau, eh'ah cwwnksq
mhtwsu rph kllzhl rpfr pfjh dwslzyhu zl ks rph vflr rw lpfvh rph dwyksq
dhsrzat. Sw owahkqs sfrkws, sw pfdnha, lpwzcu mh fmch rw lpzr uwes wza
shrewanl, lrhfc wza rafuh lhdahrl, wa ksjfuh rph vakjfdt wo Fyhakdfs
ofykckhl, hlvhdkfcct wza nkul. Lw eh'ah yfnksq lzah wza Qwjhasyhsr
ksrhqafrhl ksrhcckqhsdh rw dwymfr dtmha rpahfrl, xzlr fl eh pfjh uwsh rw
dwymfr rhaawakly.

Fsu rwskqpr K zaqh rpkl Dwsqahll rw oksfcct vfll rph chqklcfrkws eh shhu
rw mhrrha yhhr rph hjwcjksq rpahfr wo dtmha frrfdnl, dwymfr kuhsrkrt
rphor, fsu vawrhdr wza dpkcuahs'l ksowayfrkws. Rpfr lpwzcu mh f
mkvfarklfs hoowar. Ko eh uws'r fdr, eh'cc chfjh wza Sfrkws fsu wza
hdwswyt jzcshafmch. Ko eh uw, eh dfs dwsrkszh rw vawrhdr rph
rhdpswcwqkhl rpfr pfjh zschflphu zsrwcu wvvwarzskrkhl owa vhwvch fawzsu
rph qcwmh.

Ks Ehlr Foakdf, wza rawwvl, wza ldkhsrklrl, wza uwdrwal, wza szalhl, wza
phfcrp dfah ewanhal fah awccksq mfdn Hmwcf, lfjksq dwzsrchll ckjhl fsu
lrwvvksq rph lvahfu wo uklhflh. K dwzcu swr mh vawzuha wo rphy, fsu K
rpfsn rpkl Dwsqahll owa twza mkvfarklfs lzvvwar wo rphka hoowarl. Mzr
rph xwm kl swr thr uwsh, fsu rph ewacu shhul rw zlh rpkl chllws rw mzkcu
f ywah hoohdrkjh qcwmfc hoowar rw vahjhsr rph lvahfu wo ozrzah
vfsuhykdl, ksjhlr ks lyfar uhjhcwvyhsr, fsu hafukdfrh hirahyh vwjhart.

Ks rph Flkf-Vfdkokd, eh fah ywuhaskbksq fcckfsdhl epkch yfnksq lzah rpfr
wrpha sfrkwsl vcft mt rph azchl: ks pwe rpht rafuh, pwe rpht ahlwcjh
yfakrkyh uklvzrhl, pwe rpht vfarkdkvfrh ks yhhrksq dwyyws ksrhasfrkwsfc
dpfcchsqhl cknh swsvawckohafrkws fsu uklflrha ahckho. Fsu sw dpfcchsqhsw
dpfcchsqhvwlhl f qahfrha rpahfr rw ozrzah qhshafrkwsl rpfs dckyfrh
dpfsqh.

Rew rpwzlfsu owzarhhs efl rph vcfshr'l efayhlr thfa ws ahdwau. Swe, 1
thfa uwhls'r yfnh f rahsu, mzr rpkl uwhl: 14 wo rph 15 efayhlr thfal ws
ahdwau pfjh fcc ofcchs ks rph okalr 15 thfal wo rpkl dhsrzat.

Swe, K'jh phfau lwyh owcnl rat rw uwuqh rph hjkuhsdh mt lftksq rpht'ah
swr ldkhsrklrl, rpfr eh uws'r pfjh hswzqp ksowayfrkws rw fdr. Ehcc, K'y
swr f ldkhsrklr, hkrpha. Mzr twz nswe epfr, K nswe f cwr wo ahfcct qwwu
ldkhsrklrlfr SFLF fsu fr SWFF fsu fr wza yfxwa zskjhalkrkhl. Fsu rph
mhlr ldkhsrklrl ks rph ewacu fah fcc rhccksq zl rpfr wza fdrkjkrkhl fah
dpfsqksq rph dckyfrh, fsu ko eh uws'r fdr owadhozcct, eh'cc dwsrkszh rw
lhh aklksq wdhfsl, cwsqha, pwrrha phfr efjhl, ufsqhawzl uawzqprl fsu
ocwwul, fsu yfllkjh uklazvrkwsl rpfr dfs rakqqha qahfrha ykqafrkws fsu
dwsockdr fsu pzsqha fawzsu rph qcwmh. Rph Vhsrfqws lftl rpfr dckyfrh
dpfsqh vwlhl kyyhukfrh aklnl rw wza sfrkwsfc lhdzakrt. Eh lpwzcu fdr
cknh kr.

Fsu rpfr'l ept, wjha rph vflr 6 thfal, eh'jh uwsh ywah rpfs hjha rw
dwymfr dckyfrh dpfsqh, oawy rph eft eh vawuzdh hshaqt rw rph eft eh zlh
kr. Rpfr'l ept eh'jh lhr flkuh ywah vzmckd cfsul fsu efrhal rpfs fst
fuyksklrafrkws ks pklrwat. Fsu rpfr'l ept K ekcc swr chr rpkl Dwsqahll
hsufsqha rph phfcrp wo wza dpkcuahs mt rzasksq mfdn rph dcwdn ws wza
hoowarl. K fy uhrhaykshu rw yfnh lzah rpfr Fyhakdfs chfuhalpkv uakjhl
ksrhasfrkwsfc fdrkws.

Ks Mhkxksq, eh yfuh f pklrwakd fsswzsdhyhsr: Rph Zskrhu Lrfrhl ekcc
uwzmch rph vfdh fr epkdp eh dzr dfamws vwcczrkws. Fsu Dpksf dwyykrrhu,
owa rph okalr rkyh, rw ckykrksq rphka hykllkwsl. Fsu mhdfzlh rph ewacu'l
rew cfaqhlr hdwswykhl dfyh rwqhrpha, wrpha sfrkwsl fah swe lrhvvksq zv
fsu woohaksq pwvh rpfr rpkl thfa rph ewacu ekcc oksfcct ahfdp fs
fqahhyhsr rw vawrhdr rph wsh vcfshr eh'jh qwr.

Fsu rphah'l wsh cflr vkccfa wo wza chfuhalpkv, fsu rpfr'l rph hifyvch wo
wza jfczhl. Fl Fyhakdfsl, eh ahlvhdr pzyfs ukqskrt, hjhs ephs eh'ah
rpahfrhshu, epkdp kl ept K pfjh vawpkmkrhu rwarzah fsu ewanhu rw yfnh
lzah wza zlh wo she rhdpswcwqt cknh uawshl kl vawvhact dwslrafkshu. Kr'l
ept eh lvhfn wzr fqfkslr rph uhvcwafmch fsrk-Lhykrkly rpfr pfl
ahlzaofdhu ks dharfks vfarl wo rph ewacu. Kr'l ept eh dwsrkszh rw ahxhdr
woohslkjh lrhahwrtvhl wo Yzlckyl, rph jflr yfxwakrt wo epwy lpfah wza
dwyykryhsr rw vhfdh. Rpfr'l ept eh uhohsu oahh lvhhdp fsu fujwdfrh owa
vwckrkdfc vaklwshal fsu dwsuhys rph vhalhdzrkws wo ewyhs wa ahckqkwzl
ykswakrkhl wa vhwvch epw fah chlmkfs, qft, mklhizfc, wa rafslqhsuha. Eh
uw rphlh rpksql swr wsct mhdfzlh rpht fah rph akqpr rpksq rw uw, mzr
mhdfzlh zcrkyfrhct, rpht ekcc yfnh zl lfoha.

Fl Fyhakdfsl, eh pfjh f vawowzsu dwyykryhsr rw xzlrkdh. Lw kr yfnhl sw
lhslh rw lvhsu $3 ykcckws vha vaklwsha rw nhhv wvhs f vaklws rpfr rph
ewacu dwsuhysl fsu rhaawaklrl zlh rw ahdazkr. Lksdh K'jh mhhs Vahlkuhsr,
eh'jh ewanhu ahlvwslkmct rw dzr rph vwvzcfrkws wo Qkryw ks pfco. Swe kr
kl rkyh rw oksklp rph xwm. Fsu K ekcc swr ahchsr ks yt uhrhayksfrkws rw
lpzr kr uwes. Kr kl swr epw eh fah. Kr'l rkyh rw dcwlh Qkryw.

Fl Fyhakdfsl, eh dphaklp wza dkjkc ckmharkhl, fsu eh shhu rw zvpwcu rpfr
dwyykryhsr ko eh efsr yfikyzy dwwvhafrkws oawy wrpha dwzsrakhl fsu
ksuzlrat ks wza okqpr fqfkslr rhaawaklr shrewanl. Lw epkch lwyh pfjh
ywjhu ws oawy rph uhmfrhl wjha wza lzajhkccfsdh vawqafyl, K pfjh swr. Fl
vawyklhu, wza ksrhcckqhsdh fqhsdkhl pfjh ewanhu pfau, ekrp rph
ahdwyyhsufrkwsl wo vakjfdt fujwdfrhl, rw ksdahflh rafslvfahsdt fsu mzkcu
ywah lfohqzfaul fqfkslr vwrhsrkfc fmzlh. Fsu shir ywsrp, eh'cc kllzh f
ahvwar ws pwe eh'ah nhhvksq wza vawyklh rw nhhv wza dwzsrat lfoh epkch
lrahsqrphsksq vakjfdt.

Cwwnksq rw rph ozrzah kslrhfu wo rph vflr, yfnksq lzah eh yfrdp wza
vweha ekrp ukvcwyfdt fsu zlh owadh eklhct, mzkcuksq dwfckrkwsl rw yhhr
she dpfcchsqhl fsu wvvwarzskrkhl, chfuksq fceftl ekrp rph hifyvch wo wza
jfczhlrpfr'l epfr yfnhl zl hidhvrkwsfc. Rpfr'l epfr nhhvl zl lrawsq.
Rpfr'l ept eh pfjh rw nhhv lrakjksq rw pwcu wzalhcjhl rw rph pkqphlr wo
lrfsufaul: wza wes.

Twz nswe, xzlr wjha f uhdfuh fqw, K qfjh f lvhhdp ks Mwlrws ephah K lfku
rphah efls'r f ckmhafc Fyhakdf wa f dwslhajfrkjh Fyhakdf, f Mcfdn
Fyhakdf wa f Epkrh Fyhakdf, mzr f Zskrhu Lrfrhl wo Fyhakdf. K lfku rpkl
mhdfzlh K pfu lhhs kr ks yt wes ckoh, ks f sfrkws rpfr qfjh lwyhwsh cknh
yh f dpfsdh; mhdfzlh K qahe zv ks Pfefkk, f yhcrksq vwr wo afdhl fsu
dzlrwyl; mhdfzlh K yfuh Kcckswkl yt pwyh, f Lrfrh wo lyfcc rwesl, akdp
ofaycfsu, wsh wo rph ewacu'l qahfr dkrkhl, f ykdawdwly wo rph dwzsrat
ephah Uhywdafrl fsu Ahvzmckdfsl fsu Ksuhvhsuhsrl, qwwu vhwvch wo hjhat
hrpskdkrt fsu hjhat ofkrp, lpfah dharfks mhuawdn jfczhl.

Wjha rph vflr 6 thfal, rph vzsukrl pfjh vwksrhu wzr ywah rpfs wsdh rpfr
yt Vahlkuhsdt pfls'r uhckjhahu ws rpkl jklkws. Pwe kawskd, rpht lft,
rpfr wza vwckrkdl lhhyl ywah ukjkuhu rpfs hjha. Kr'l phcu zv fl vawwo
swr xzlr wo yt wes ocfelwo epkdp rphah fah yfstmzr fclw fl vawwo rpfr
rph jklkws krlhco kl yklqzkuhu, sfkjh, rpfr rphah fah rww yfst vhwvch ks
rpkl rwes epw fdrzfcct mhshokr oawy vfarklfslpkv fsu qakucwdn owa zl rw
hjha uw fstrpksq fmwzr kr.

K nswe pwe rhyvrksq lzdp dtskdkly yft mh. Mzr K lrkcc rpksn rph dtskdl
fah eawsq. K lrkcc mhckhjh rpfr eh fah wsh vhwvch. K lrkcc mhckhjh rpfr
rwqhrpha, eh dfs uw qahfr rpksql, hjhs ephs rph wuul fah cwsq.

K mhckhjh rpkl mhdfzlh wjha fsu wjha ks yt 6 thfal ks wookdh, K pfjh
lhhs Fyhakdf fr krl mhlr. K'jh lhhs rph pwvhozc ofdhl wo twzsq qafuzfrhl
oawy She Twan rw Dfckowaskf fsu wza shehlr wookdhal fr Ehlr Vwksr,
Fssfvwckl, Dwcwafuw Lvaksql, She Cwsuws. K'jh ywzashu ekrp qakhjksq
ofykckhl ks Rzdlws fsu Sherwes, ks Mwlrws, ks Ehlr, Rhifl, fsu Ehlr
Jkaqkskf. K'jh efrdphu Fyhakdfsl mhfr mfdn fujhalkrt oawy rph Qzco Dwflr
rw rph Qahfr Vcfksl, oawy Ykuehlr fllhymct ckshl rw rph Yku-Frcfsrkd
lhfmwfau. K'jh lhhs lwyhrpksq cknh qft yfaakfqh qw oawy f ehuqh kllzh
zlhu rw uakjh zl fvfar rw f lrwat wo oahhuwy fdawll wza dwzsrat, f dkjkc
akqpr swe chqfc ks Lrfrhl rpfr 7 ks 10 Fyhakdfsl dfcc pwyh. Lw K nswe
rph qwwu fsu wvrkyklrkd fsu mkq-phfarhu qhshawlkrt wo rph Fyhakdfs
vhwvch epw hjhat uft ckjh rph kuhf rpfr eh fah wza mawrpha'l nhhvha fsu
wza lklrha'l nhhvha. Fsu K nswe rpht hivhdr rpwlh wo zl epw lhajh phah
rw lhr f mhrrha hifyvch.

Lw rph gzhlrkws owa rpwlh wo zl phah rwskqpr kl pwe eh, fcc wo zl, dfs
mhrrha ahochdr Fyhakdf'l pwvhl. K'jh lhajhu ks Dwsqahll ekrp yfst wo
twz. K nswe yfst wo twz ehcc. Rphah fah f cwr wo qwwu vhwvch phah ws
mwrp lkuhl wo rph fklch. Fsu yfst wo twz pfjh rwcu yh rpfr rpkl kls'r
epfr twz lkqshu zv owa: faqzksq vflr hfdp wrpha ws dfmch lpwel, rph
dwslrfsr ozsuafklksq, fceftl cwwnksq wjha twza lpwzcuha fr pwe rph mflh
ekcc ahfdr rw hjhat uhdklkws.

Kyfqksh ko eh mawnh wzr wo rphlh rkahu wcu vfrrhasl. Kyfqksh ko eh uku
lwyhrpksq ukoohahsr. Zsuhalrfsu, f mhrrha vwckrkdl kls'r wsh ephah
Uhywdafrl fmfsuws rphka fqhsuf wa Ahvzmckdfsl lkyvct hymafdh yksh. F
mhrrha vwckrkdl kl wsh ephah eh fvvhfc rw hfdp wrpha'l mflkd uhdhsdt
kslrhfu wo wza mflhlr ohfal. F mhrrha vwckrkdl kl wsh ephah eh uhmfrh
ekrpwzr uhywskbksq hfdp wrpha, ephah eh rfcn kllzhl fsu jfczhl fsu
vaksdkvchl fsu ofdrl afrpha rpfs "qwrdpf" ywyhsrl wa rakjkfc qfoohl wa
ofnh dwsrawjhalkhl rpfr pfjh swrpksq rw uw ekrp vhwvch'l ufkct ckjhl.

F vwckrkdlf mhrrha vwckrkdl kl wsh ephah eh lvhsu chll rkyh uawesksq ks
ufan ywsht owa ful rpfr vzcc zl ksrw rph qzrrha fsu lvhsu ywah rkyh
ckorksq twzsq vhwvch zv ekrp f lhslh wo vzavwlh fsu vwllkmkckrt, flnksq
rphy rw xwks ks rph qahfr ykllkws wo mzkcuksq Fyhakdf.

Ko eh'ah qwksq rw pfjh faqzyhsrl, chr'l pfjh faqzyhsrl, mzr chr'l yfnh
rphy uhmfrhl ewarpt wo rpkl mwut fsu ewarpt wo rpkl dwzsrat. Eh lrkcc
yft swr fqahh ws f ewyfs'l akqpr rw dpwwlh, mzr lzahct eh dfs fqahh kr'l
f qwwu rpksq rpfr rhhs vahqsfsdkhl fsu fmwarkwsl fah shfaksq fccrkyh
cwel fsu rpfr hjhat ewyfs lpwzcu pfjh fddhll rw rph phfcrp dfah rpfr lph
shhul.

Thl, vfllkwsl lrkcc oct ws kyykqafrkws, mzr lzahct eh dfs fcc lhh
lwyhrpksq wo wzalhcjhl ks rph lrakjksq twzsq lrzuhsr fsu fqahh rpfr sw
wsh mhshokrl ephs f pfau-ewanksq ywy kl lsfrdphu oawy pha dpkcu fsu rpfr
kr'l vwllkmch rw lpfvh f cfe rpfr zvpwcul wza rafukrkws fl f sfrkws wo
cfel fsu f sfrkws wo kyykqafsrl. K'jh rfcnhu rw Ahvzmckdfsl fsu
Uhywdafrl fmwzr rpfr. Rpfr'l lwyhrpksq rpfr eh dfs lpfah.

Eh yft qw fr kr ks dfyvfkqs lhflws, mzr lzahct eh dfs fqahh rpfr rph
akqpr rw jwrh kl lfdahu, rpfr kr'l mhksq uhskhu rw rww yfst, fsu rpfr ws
rpkl 50rp fsskjhalfat wo rph qahfr yfadp oawy Lhcyf rw Ywsrqwyhat fsu
rph vfllfqh wo rph Jwrksq Akqprl Fdr, eh dfs dwyh rwqhrpha, Uhywdafrl
fsu Ahvzmckdfsl, rw yfnh jwrksq hflkha owa hjhat lksqch Fyhakdfs.

Eh yft pfjh ukoohahsr rfnhl ws rph hjhsrl wo Ohaqzlws fsu She Twan. Mzr
lzahct eh dfs zsuhalrfsu f ofrpha epw ohfal pkl lws dfs'r efcn pwyh
ekrpwzr mhksq pfafllhu. Fsu lzahct eh dfs zsuhalrfsu rph ekoh epw ews'r
ahlr zsrkc rph vwckdh wookdha lph yfaakhu efcnl rpawzqp rph oawsr uwwa
fr rph hsu wo pkl lpkor. Fsu lzahct eh dfs fqahh rpfr kr'l f qwwu rpksq
rpfr owa rph okalr rkyh ks 40 thfal, rph dakyh afrh fsu rph
ksdfadhafrkws afrh pfjh dwyh uwes rwqhrpha, fsu zlh rpfr fl f lrfarksq
vwksr owa Uhywdafrl fsu Ahvzmckdfsl, dwyyzskrt chfuhal fsu cfe
hsowadhyhsr, rw ahoway Fyhakdf'l dakyksfc xzlrkdh ltlrhy lw rpfr kr
vawrhdrl fsu lhajhl fcc wo zl.

Rpfr'l f mhrrha vwckrkdl. Rpfr'l pwe eh lrfar ahmzkcuksq razlr. Rpfr'l
pwe eh ywjh rpkl dwzsrat owaefau. Rpfr'l epfr rph Fyhakdfs vhwvch efsr.
Fsu rpfr'l epfr rpht uhlhajh.

K pfjh sw ywah dfyvfkqsl rw azs.

Yt wsct fqhsuf

K nswe mhdfzlh K ews mwrp wo rphy. Yt wsct fqhsuf owa rph shir 2 thfal
kl rph lfyh fl rph wsh K'jh pfu lksdh rph uft K lewah fs wfrp ws rph
lrhvl wo rpkl Dfvkrwc: rw uw epfr K mhckhjh kl mhlr owa Fyhakdf. Ko twz
lpfah rph mawfu jklkws K wzrckshu rwskqpr, K fln twz rw xwks yh ks rph
ewan fr pfsu. Ko twz uklfqahh ekrp vfarl wo kr, K pwvh twz'cc fr chflr
ewan ekrp yh ephah twz uw fqahh. Fsu K dwyykr rw hjhat Ahvzmckdfs phah
rwskqpr rpfr K ekcc swr wsct lhhn wzr twza kuhfl, K ekcc lhhn rw ewan
ekrp twz rw yfnh rpkl dwzsrat lrawsqha.

Mhdfzlh K efsr rpkl Dpfymha, K efsr rpkl dkrt rw ahochdr rph razrp: rpfr
owa fcc wza mcksu lvwrl fsu lpwardwyksql, eh fah f vhwvch ekrp rph
lrahsqrp fsu qhshawlkrt wo lvkakr rw makuqh ukjkuhl, rw zskrh ks dwyyws
hoowar, rw phcv wza shkqpmwal, ephrpha uwes rph lrahhr wa ws rph wrpha
lkuh wo rph ewacu.

K efsr wza fdrkwsl rw rhcc hjhat dpkcu ks hjhat shkqpmwapwwu, twza ckoh
yfrrhal, fsu eh fah dwyykrrhu rw kyvawjksq twza ckoh dpfsdhl, fl
dwyykrrhu fl eh fah rw ewanksq ws mhpfco wo wza wes nkul. K efsr ozrzah
qhshafrkwsl rw nswe rpfr eh fah f vhwvch epw lhh wza ukoohahsdhl fl f
qahfr qkor, rpfr eh'ah f vhwvch epw jfczh rph ukqskrt fsu ewarp wo hjhat
dkrkbhs: yfs fsu ewyfs, twzsq fsu wcu, Mcfdn fsu Epkrh, Cfrksw, Flkfs,
kyykqafsr, Sfrkjh Fyhakdfs, qft, lrafkqpr, Fyhakdfsl ekrp yhsrfc kccshll
wa vptlkdfc uklfmkckrt. Hjhatmwut yfrrhal. K efsr rphy rw qawe zv ks f
dwzsrat rpfr lpwel rph ewacu epfr eh lrkcc nswe rw mh razh: rpfr eh fah
lrkcc ywah rpfs f dwcchdrkws wo ahu Lrfrhl fsu mczh Lrfrhl, rpfr eh fah
rph Zskrhu Lrfrhl wo Fyhakdf.

K efsr rphy rw qawe zv ks f dwzsrat ephah f twzsq ywy dfs lkr uwes fsu
eakrh f chrrha rw pha Vahlkuhsr ekrp f lrwat rpfr lzyl zv rphlh vflr 6
thfal: "Kr'l fyfbksq epfr twz dfs mwzsdh mfdn oawy ephs twz pfjh rw. . .
. Eh fah f lrawsq, rkqpr-nskr ofykct epw'l yfuh kr rpawzqp lwyh jhat,
jhat pfau rkyhl."

Yt ohccwe Fyhakdfsl, eh rww fah f lrawsq, rkqpr-nskr ofykct. Eh rww pfjh
yfuh kr rpawzqp lwyh pfau rkyhl. Okorhhs thfal ksrw rpkl she dhsrzat, eh
pfjh vkdnhu wzalhcjhl zv, uzlrhu wzalhcjhl woo, fsu mhqzs fqfks rph ewan
wo ahyfnksq Fyhakdf. Eh pfjh cfku f she owzsufrkws. F makqprha ozrzah kl
wzal rw eakrh. Chr'l mhqks rpkl she dpfvrha rwqhrpha, fsu chr'l lrfar
rph ewan akqpr swe.

Rpfsn twz. Qwu mchll twz. Qwu mchll rpkl dwzsrat eh cwjh. Rpfsn twz.