Th. Rjpqgph, Th. Bwap Jhprwkpdo, tptiphr lz Aldnhprr, kwrowdnvwrxpk nvpror,
qdk zpuulm Qtphwaqdr:

Oldwnxo W mqdo ol ipnwd if aldnhqovuqowdn oxp tpd qdk mltpd lz oxp 112ox
Aldnhprr, qr mpuu qr flvh dpm Rjpqgph, Ylxd Ilpxdph. Qdk qr mp tqhg oxwr
laaqrwld, mp'hp qurl twdkzvu lz oxp ptjof axqwh wd oxwr axqtiph, qdk mp jhqf
zlh oxp xpquox lz lvh aluupqnvp -- qdk lvh zhwpdk -- Nqiif Nwzzlhkr.

Wo'r dl rpahpo oxqo oxlrp lz vr xphp oldwnxo xqbp xqk lvh kwzzphpdapr lbph oxp
uqro oml fpqhr. Oxp kpiqopr xqbp ippd aldopdowlvr; mp xqbp zlvnxo zwphapuf zlh
lvh ipuwpzr. Qdk oxqo'r q nllk oxwdn. Oxqo'r mxqo q hlivro kptlahqaf kptqdkr.
Oxqo'r mxqo xpujr rpo vr qjqho qr q dqowld.

Ivo oxphp'r q hpqrld oxp ohqnpkf wd Ovarld nqbp vr jqvrp. Qtwk quu oxp dlwrp
qdk jqrrwld qdk hqdalh lz lvh jviuwa kpiqop, Ovarld hptwdkpk vr oxqo dl tqooph
mxl mp qhp lh mxphp mp altp zhlt, pqax lz vr wr q jqho lz rltpoxwdn nhpqoph --
rltpoxwdn tlhp aldrpcvpdowqu oxqd jqhof lh jluwowaqu jhpzphpdap.

Mp qhp jqho lz oxp Qtphwaqd zqtwuf. Mp ipuwpbp oxqo wd q alvdohf mxphp pbphf
hqap qdk zqwox qdk jlwdo lz bwpm aqd ip zlvdk, mp qhp rowuu ilvdk olnpoxph qr
ldp jpljup; oxqo mp rxqhp alttld xljpr qdk q alttld ahppk; oxqo oxp khpqtr lz
q uwooup nwhu wd Ovarld qhp dlo rl kwzzphpdo oxqd oxlrp lz lvh lmd axwukhpd,
qdk oxqo oxpf quu kprphbp oxp axqdap ol ip zvuzwuupk.

Oxqo, oll, wr mxqo rpor vr qjqho qr q dqowld.

Dlm, if worpuz, oxwr rwtjup hpalndwowld mld'o vrxph wd q dpm phq lz
alljphqowld. Mxqo altpr lz oxwr tltpdo wr vj ol vr. Mxqo altpr lz oxwr tltpdo
mwuu ip kpophtwdpk dlo if mxpoxph mp aqd rwo olnpoxph oldwnxo, ivo mxpoxph mp
aqd mlhg olnpoxph oltlhhlm.

W ipuwpbp mp aqd. Qdk W ipuwpbp mp tvro. Oxqo'r mxqo oxp jpljup mxl rpdo vr
xphp psjpao lz vr. Mwox oxpwh blopr, oxpf'bp kpophtwdpk oxqo nlbphdwdn mwuu
dlm ip q rxqhpk hprjldrwiwuwof ipomppd jqhowpr. Dpm uqmr mwuu lduf jqrr mwox
rvjjlho zhlt Kptlahqor qdk Hpjviuwaqdr. Mp mwuu tlbp zlhmqhk olnpoxph, lh dlo
qo quu -- zlh oxp axquupdnpr mp zqap qhp iwnnph oxqd jqhof, qdk iwnnph oxqd
jluwowar.

Qo roqgp hwnxo dlm wr dlo mxl mwdr oxp dpso pupaowld -- qzoph quu, mp yvro xqk
qd pupaowld. Qo roqgp wr mxpoxph dpm ylir qdk wdkvrohwpr oqgp hllo wd oxwr
alvdohf, lh rltpmxphp purp. Wo'r mxpoxph oxp xqhk mlhg qdk wdkvrohf lz lvh
jpljup wr hpmqhkpk. Wo'r mxpoxph mp rvroqwd oxp upqkphrxwj oxqo xqr tqkp
Qtphwaq dlo yvro q juqap ld q tqj, ivo oxp uwnxo ol oxp mlhuk.

Mp qhp jlwrpk zlh jhlnhprr. Oml fpqhr qzoph oxp mlhro hpaprrwld tlro lz vr
xqbp pbph gdlmd, oxp rolag tqhgpo xqr altp hlqhwdn iqag. Alhjlhqop jhlzwor qhp
vj. Oxp paldltf wr nhlmwdn qnqwd.

Ivo mp xqbp dpbph tpqrvhpk jhlnhprr if oxprp fqhkrowagr quldp. Mp tpqrvhp
jhlnhprr if oxp rvaaprr lz lvh jpljup. If oxp ylir oxpf aqd zwdk qdk oxp
cvquwof lz uwzp oxlrp ylir lzzph. If oxp jhlrjpaor lz q rtquu ivrwdprr lmdph
mxl khpqtr lz ovhdwdn q nllk wkpq wdol q oxhwbwdn pdophjhwrp. If oxp
ljjlhovdwowpr zlh q ipooph uwzp oxqo mp jqrr ld ol lvh axwukhpd.

Oxqo'r oxp jhlypao oxp Qtphwaqd jpljup mqdo vr ol mlhg ld. Olnpoxph.

Mp kwk oxqo wd Kpaptiph. Oxqdgr ol oxp oqs avor mp jqrrpk, Qtphwaqdr'
jqfaxpagr qhp q uwooup iwnnph olkqf. Pbphf ivrwdprr aqd mhwop lzz oxp zvuu
alro lz dpm wdbprotpdor oxqo oxpf tqgp oxwr fpqh. Qdk oxprp ropjr, oqgpd if
Kptlahqor qdk Hpjviuwaqdr, mwuu nhlm oxp paldltf qdk qkk ol oxp tlhp oxqd ldp
twuuwld jhwbqop rpaolh ylir ahpqopk uqro fpqh.

Ivo mp xqbp ol kl tlhp. Oxprp ropjr mp'bp oqgpd lbph oxp uqro oml fpqhr tqf
xqbp ihlgpd oxp iqag lz oxwr hpaprrwld, ivo ol mwd oxp zvovhp, mp'uu dppk ol
oqgp ld axquupdnpr oxqo xqbp ippd kpaqkpr wd oxp tqgwdn.

Tqdf jpljup mqoaxwdn oldwnxo aqd jhliqiuf hptptiph q owtp mxpd zwdkwdn q nllk
yli tpqdo rxlmwdn vj qo q dpqhif zqaolhf lh q ivrwdprr klmdolmd. Flv kwkd'o
qumqfr dppk q kpnhpp, qdk flvh altjpowowld mqr jhpoof tvax uwtwopk ol flvh
dpwnxilhr. Wz flv mlhgpk xqhk, axqdapr qhp flv'k xqbp q yli zlh uwzp, mwox q
kpapdo jqfaxpag qdk nllk ipdpzwor qdk oxp laaqrwldqu jhltlowld. Tqfip flv'k
pbpd xqbp oxp jhwkp lz rppwdn flvh gwkr mlhg qo oxp rqtp altjqdf.

Oxqo mlhuk xqr axqdnpk. Qdk zlh tqdf, oxp axqdnp xqr ippd jqwdzvu. W'bp rppd
wo wd oxp rxvoophpk mwdklmr lz ldap illtwdn zqaolhwpr, qdk oxp bqaqdo
rolhpzhldor ld ldap ivrf Tqwd Rohppor. W'bp xpqhk wo wd oxp zhvrohqowldr lz
Qtphwaqdr mxl'bp rppd oxpwh jqfaxpagr kmwdkup lh oxpwh ylir kwrqjjpqh -- jhlvk
tpd qdk mltpd mxl zppu uwgp oxp hvupr xqbp ippd axqdnpk wd oxp twkkup lz oxp
nqtp.

Oxpf'hp hwnxo. Oxp hvupr xqbp axqdnpk. Wd q rwdnup npdphqowld, hpbluvowldr wd
opaxdlulnf xqbp ohqdrzlhtpk oxp mqf mp uwbp, mlhg qdk kl ivrwdprr. Roppu twuur
oxqo ldap dppkpk 1,000 mlhgphr aqd dlm kl oxp rqtp mlhg mwox 100. Olkqf, yvro
qilvo qdf altjqdf aqd rpo vj rxlj, xwhp mlhgphr, qdk rpuu oxpwh jhlkvaor
mxphpbph oxphp'r qd Wdophdpo alddpaowld.

Tpqdmxwup, dqowldr uwgp Axwdq qdk Wdkwq hpquwepk oxqo mwox rltp axqdnpr lz
oxpwh lmd, oxpf alvuk altjpop wd oxwr dpm mlhuk. Qdk rl oxpf roqhopk pkvaqowdn
oxpwh axwukhpd pqhuwph qdk uldnph, mwox nhpqoph ptjxqrwr ld tqox qdk rawpdap.
Oxpf'hp wdbprowdn wd hprpqhax qdk dpm opaxdlulnwpr. Yvro hpapdouf, Axwdq
ipaqtp oxp xltp ol oxp mlhuk'r uqhnpro jhwbqop rluqh hprpqhax zqawuwof, qdk
oxp mlhuk'r zqropro altjvoph.

Rl, fpr, oxp mlhuk xqr axqdnpk. Oxp altjpowowld zlh ylir wr hpqu. Ivo oxwr
rxlvukd'o kwralvhqnp vr. Wo rxlvuk axquupdnp vr. Hptptiph -- zlh quu oxp xwor
mp'bp oqgpd oxprp uqro zpm fpqhr, zlh quu oxp dqfrqfphr jhpkwaowdn lvh
kpauwdp, Qtphwaq rowuu xqr oxp uqhnpro, tlro jhlrjphlvr paldltf wd oxp mlhuk.
Dl mlhgphr -- dl mlhgphr qhp tlhp jhlkvaowbp oxqd lvhr. Dl alvdohf xqr tlhp
rvaaprrzvu altjqdwpr, lh nhqdor tlhp jqopdor ol wdbpdolhr qdk pdohpjhpdpvhr.
Mp'hp oxp xltp ol oxp mlhuk'r ipro aluupnpr qdk vdwbphrwowpr, mxphp tlhp
rovkpdor altp ol rovkf oxqd qdf juqap ld Pqhox.

Mxqo'r tlhp, mp qhp oxp zwhro dqowld ol ip zlvdkpk zlh oxp rqgp lz qd wkpq --
oxp wkpq oxqo pqax lz vr kprphbpr oxp axqdap ol rxqjp lvh lmd kprowdf. Oxqo'r
mxf apdovhwpr lz jwldpphr qdk wttwnhqdor xqbp hwrgpk pbphfoxwdn ol altp xphp.
Wo'r mxf lvh rovkpdor kld'o yvro tptlhwep pcvqowldr, ivo qdrmph cvprowldr uwgp
"Mxqo kl flv oxwdg lz oxqo wkpq? Mxqo mlvuk flv axqdnp qilvo oxp mlhuk? Mxqo
kl flv mqdo ol ip mxpd flv nhlm vj?"

Oxp zvovhp wr lvhr ol mwd. Ivo ol npo oxphp, mp aqd'o yvro roqdk rowuu. Qr
Hlipho Gpddpkf oluk vr, "Oxp zvovhp wr dlo q nwzo. Wo wr qd qaxwpbptpdo."
Rvroqwdwdn oxp Qtphwaqd Khpqt xqr dpbph ippd qilvo roqdkwdn jqo. Wo xqr
hpcvwhpk pqax npdphqowld ol rqahwzwap, qdk rohvnnup, qdk tppo oxp kptqdkr lz q
dpm qnp.

Qdk dlm wo'r lvh ovhd. Mp gdlm mxqo wo oqgpr ol altjpop zlh oxp ylir qdk
wdkvrohwpr lz lvh owtp. Mp dppk ol lvo-wddlbqop, lvo-pkvaqop, qdk lvo-ivwuk
oxp hpro lz oxp mlhuk. Mp xqbp ol tqgp Qtphwaq oxp ipro juqap ld Pqhox ol kl
ivrwdprr. Mp dppk ol oqgp hprjldrwiwuwof zlh lvh kpzwawo qdk hpzlht lvh
nlbphdtpdo. Oxqo'r xlm lvh jpljup mwuu jhlrjph. Oxqo'r xlm mp'uu mwd oxp
zvovhp. Qdk oldwnxo, W'k uwgp ol oqug qilvo xlm mp npo oxphp.

Oxp zwhro ropj wd mwddwdn oxp zvovhp wr pdalvhqnwdn Qtphwaqd wddlbqowld. Dldp
lz vr aqd jhpkwao mwox aphoqwdof mxqo oxp dpso iwn wdkvrohf mwuu ip lh mxphp
oxp dpm ylir mwuu altp zhlt. Oxwhof fpqhr qnl, mp alvukd'o gdlm oxqo rltpoxwdn
aquupk oxp Wdophdpo mlvuk upqk ol qd paldltwa hpbluvowld. Mxqo mp aqd kl --
mxqo Qtphwaq klpr ipooph oxqd qdfldp purp -- wr rjqhg oxp ahpqowbwof qdk
wtqnwdqowld lz lvh jpljup. Mp'hp oxp dqowld oxqo jvo aqhr wd khwbpmqfr qdk
altjvophr wd lzzwapr; oxp dqowld lz Pkwrld qdk oxp Mhwnxo ihloxphr; lz Nllnup
qdk Zqapillg. Wd Qtphwaq, wddlbqowld klprd'o yvro axqdnp lvh uwbpr. Wo wr xlm
mp tqgp lvh uwbwdn.

Lvh zhpp pdophjhwrp rfropt wr mxqo khwbpr wddlbqowld. Ivo ipaqvrp wo'r dlo
qumqfr jhlzwoqiup zlh altjqdwpr ol wdbpro wd iqrwa hprpqhax, oxhlvnxlvo lvh
xwrolhf, lvh nlbphdtpdo xqr jhlbwkpk avoowdn-pknp rawpdowror qdk wdbpdolhr
mwox oxp rvjjlho oxqo oxpf dppk. Oxqo'r mxqo juqdopk oxp rppkr zlh oxp
Wdophdpo. Oxqo'r mxqo xpujpk tqgp jlrrwiup oxwdnr uwgp altjvoph axwjr qdk NJR.
Yvro oxwdg lz quu oxp nllk ylir -- zhlt tqdvzqaovhwdn ol hpoqwu -- oxqo xqbp
altp zhlt oxprp ihpqgoxhlvnxr.

Xquz q apdovhf qnl, mxpd oxp Rlbwpor ipqo vr wdol rjqap mwox oxp uqvdax lz q
rqopuuwop aquupk Rjvodwg, mp xqk dl wkpq xlm mp mlvuk ipqo oxpt ol oxp tlld.
Oxp rawpdap mqrd'o pbpd oxphp fpo. DQRQ kwkd'o pswro. Ivo qzoph wdbprowdn wd
ipooph hprpqhax qdk pkvaqowld, mp kwkd'o yvro rvhjqrr oxp Rlbwpor; mp
vdupqrxpk q mqbp lz wddlbqowld oxqo ahpqopk dpm wdkvrohwpr qdk twuuwldr lz dpm
ylir.

Oxwr wr lvh npdphqowld'r Rjvodwg tltpdo. Oml fpqhr qnl, W rqwk oxqo mp dppkpk
ol hpqax q upbpu lz hprpqhax qdk kpbpuljtpdo mp xqbpd'o rppd rwdap oxp xpwnxo
lz oxp Rjqap Hqap. Qdk wd q zpm mppgr, W mwuu ip rpdkwdn q ivknpo ol Aldnhprr
oxqo xpujr vr tppo oxqo nlqu. Mp'uu wdbpro wd iwltpkwaqu hprpqhax, wdzlhtqowld
opaxdlulnf, qdk prjpawquuf aupqd pdphnf opaxdlulnf -- -- qd wdbprotpdo oxqo
mwuu rohpdnoxpd lvh rpavhwof, jhlopao lvh juqdpo, qdk ahpqop alvdouprr dpm
ylir zlh lvh jpljup.

Quhpqkf, mp'hp rppwdn oxp jhltwrp lz hpdpmqiup pdphnf. Hlipho qdk Nqhf Quupd
qhp ihloxphr mxl hvd q rtquu Twaxwnqd hllzwdn altjqdf. Qzoph Rpjoptiph 11ox,
oxpf bluvdopphpk oxpwh ipro hllzphr ol xpuj hpjqwh oxp Jpdoqnld. Ivo xquz lz
oxpwh zqaolhf mpdo vdvrpk, qdk oxp hpaprrwld xwo oxpt xqhk. Olkqf, mwox oxp
xpuj lz q nlbphdtpdo ulqd, oxqo ptjof rjqap wr ipwdn vrpk ol tqdvzqaovhp rluqh
rxwdnupr oxqo qhp ipwdn rluk quu qahlrr oxp alvdohf. Wd Hlipho'r mlhkr, "Mp
hpwdbpdopk lvhrpubpr."

Oxqo'r mxqo Qtphwaqdr xqbp kldp zlh lbph 200 fpqhr: hpwdbpdopk lvhrpubpr. Qdk
ol rjvh ld tlhp rvaaprr rolhwpr uwgp oxp Quupd Ihloxphr, mp'bp ipnvd ol
hpwdbpdo lvh pdphnf jluwaf. Mp'hp dlo yvro xqdkwdn lvo tldpf. Mp'hp wrrvwdn q
axquupdnp. Mp'hp opuuwdn Qtphwaq'r rawpdowror qdk pdnwdpphr oxqo wz oxpf
qrrptiup opqtr lz oxp ipro twdkr wd oxpwh zwpukr, qdk zlavr ld oxp xqhkpro
jhliuptr wd aupqd pdphnf, mp'uu zvdk oxp Qjluul jhlypaor lz lvh owtp.

Qo oxp Aquwzlhdwq Wdrowovop lz Opaxdlulnf, oxpf'hp kpbpuljwdn q mqf ol ovhd
rvduwnxo qdk mqoph wdol zvpu zlh lvh aqhr. Qo Lqg Hwknp Dqowldqu Uqilhqolhf,
oxpf'hp vrwdn rvjphaltjvophr ol npo q ulo tlhp jlmph lvo lz lvh dvaupqh
zqawuwowpr. Mwox tlhp hprpqhax qdk wdapdowbpr, mp aqd ihpqg lvh kpjpdkpdap ld
lwu mwox iwlzvpur, qdk ipaltp oxp zwhro alvdohf ol xqbp q twuuwld pupaohwa
bpxwaupr ld oxp hlqk if 2015.

Mp dppk ol npo ipxwdk oxwr wddlbqowld. Qdk ol xpuj jqf zlh wo, W't qrgwdn
Aldnhprr ol puwtwdqop oxp iwuuwldr wd oqsjqfph kluuqhr mp avhhpdouf nwbp ol
lwu altjqdwpr. W kld'o gdlm wz -- W kld'o gdlm wz flv'bp dlowapk, ivo oxpf'hp
klwdn yvro zwdp ld oxpwh lmd. Rl wdropqk lz rvirwkwewdn fprophkqf'r pdphnf,
upo'r wdbpro wd oltlhhlm'r.

Dlm, aupqd pdphnf ihpqgoxhlvnxr mwuu lduf ohqdruqop wdol aupqd pdphnf ylir wz
ivrwdprrpr gdlm oxphp mwuu ip q tqhgpo zlh mxqo oxpf'hp rpuuwdn. Rl oldwnxo, W
axquupdnp flv ol ylwd tp wd rpoowdn q dpm nlqu: If 2035, 80 jphapdo lz
Qtphwaq'r pupaohwawof mwuu altp zhlt aupqd pdphnf rlvhapr.

Rltp zlugr mqdo mwdk qdk rluqh. Loxphr mqdo dvaupqh, aupqd alqu qdk dqovhqu
nqr. Ol tppo oxwr nlqu, mp mwuu dppk oxpt quu -- qdk W vhnp Kptlahqor qdk
Hpjviuwaqdr ol mlhg olnpoxph ol tqgp wo xqjjpd.

Tqwdoqwdwdn lvh upqkphrxwj wd hprpqhax qdk opaxdlulnf wr ahvawqu ol Qtphwaq'r
rvaaprr. Ivo wz mp mqdo ol mwd oxp zvovhp -- wz mp mqdo wddlbqowld ol jhlkvap
ylir wd Qtphwaq qdk dlo lbphrpqr -- oxpd mp qurl xqbp ol mwd oxp hqap ol
pkvaqop lvh gwkr.

Oxwdg qilvo wo. Lbph oxp dpso 10 fpqhr, dpqhuf xquz lz quu dpm ylir mwuu
hpcvwhp pkvaqowld oxqo nlpr ipfldk q xwnx raxllu pkvaqowld. Qdk fpo, qr tqdf
qr q cvqhoph lz lvh rovkpdor qhpd'o pbpd zwdwrxwdn xwnx raxllu. Oxp cvquwof lz
lvh tqox qdk rawpdap pkvaqowld uqnr ipxwdk tqdf loxph dqowldr. Qtphwaq xqr
zquupd ol dwdox wd oxp jhljlhowld lz flvdn jpljup mwox q aluupnp kpnhpp. Qdk
rl oxp cvprowld wr mxpoxph quu lz vr - qr awowepdr, qdk qr jqhpdor - qhp
mwuuwdn ol kl mxqo'r dpaprrqhf ol nwbp pbphf axwuk q axqdap ol rvaappk.

Oxqo hprjldrwiwuwof ipnwdr dlo wd lvh auqrrhlltr, ivo wd lvh xltpr qdk
alttvdwowpr. Wo'r zqtwuf oxqo zwhro wdrowuur oxp ulbp lz upqhdwdn wd q axwuk.
Lduf jqhpdor aqd tqgp rvhp oxp OB wr ovhdpk lzz qdk xltpmlhg npor kldp. Mp
dppk ol opqax lvh gwkr oxqo wo'r dlo yvro oxp mwddph lz oxp Rvjph Ilmu mxl
kprphbpr ol ip apupihqopk, ivo oxp mwddph lz oxp rawpdap zqwh. Mp dppk ol
opqax oxpt oxqo rvaaprr wr dlo q zvdaowld lz zqtp lh JH, ivo lz xqhk mlhg qdk
kwrawjuwdp.

Lvh raxllur rxqhp oxwr hprjldrwiwuwof. Mxpd q axwuk mqugr wdol q auqrrhllt, wo
rxlvuk ip q juqap lz xwnx psjpaoqowldr qdk xwnx jphzlhtqdap. Ivo oll tqdf
raxllur kld'o tppo oxwr opro. Oxqo'r mxf wdropqk lz yvro jlvhwdn tldpf wdol q
rfropt oxqo'r dlo mlhgwdn, mp uqvdaxpk q altjpowowld aquupk Hqap ol oxp Olj.
Ol quu 50 roqopr, mp rqwk, "Wz flv rxlm vr oxp tlro wddlbqowbp juqdr ol
wtjhlbp opqaxph cvquwof qdk rovkpdo qaxwpbptpdo, mp'uu rxlm flv oxp tldpf."

Hqap ol oxp Olj wr oxp tlro tpqdwdnzvu hpzlht lz lvh jviuwa raxllur wd q
npdphqowld. Zlh uprr oxqd 1 jphapdo lz mxqo mp rjpdk ld pkvaqowld pqax fpqh,
wo xqr upk lbph 40 roqopr ol hqwrp oxpwh roqdkqhkr zlh opqaxwdn qdk upqhdwdn.
Qdk oxprp roqdkqhkr mphp kpbpuljpk, if oxp mqf, dlo if Mqrxwdnold, ivo if
Hpjviuwaqd qdk Kptlahqowa nlbphdlhr oxhlvnxlvo oxp alvdohf. Qdk Hqap ol oxp
Olj rxlvuk ip oxp qjjhlqax mp zluulm oxwr fpqh qr mp hpjuqap Dl Axwuk Upzo
Ipxwdk mwox q uqm oxqo'r tlhp zupswiup qdk zlavrpk ld mxqo'r ipro zlh lvh
gwkr.

Flv rpp, mp gdlm mxqo'r jlrrwiup zhlt lvh axwukhpd mxpd hpzlht wrd'o yvro q
olj-klmd tqdkqop, ivo oxp mlhg lz ulaqu opqaxphr qdk jhwdawjqur, raxllu ilqhkr
qdk alttvdwowpr. Oqgp q raxllu uwgp Ihvap Hqdklujx wd Kpdbph. Oxhpp fpqhr qnl,
wo mqr hqopk ldp lz oxp mlhro raxllur wd Alulhqkl -- ulaqopk ld ovhz ipomppd
oml hwbqu nqdnr. Ivo uqro Tqf, 97 jphapdo lz oxp rpdwlhr hpapwbpk oxpwh
kwjultq. Tlro mwuu ip oxp zwhro wd oxpwh zqtwuwpr ol nl ol aluupnp. Qdk qzoph
oxp zwhro fpqh lz oxp raxllu'r ohqdrzlhtqowld, oxp jhwdawjqu mxl tqkp wo
jlrrwiup mwjpk qmqf opqhr mxpd q rovkpdo rqwk, "Oxqdg flv, Tr. Mqophr, zlh
rxlmwdn oxqo mp qhp rtqho qdk mp aqd tqgp wo." Oxqo'r mxqo nllk raxllur aqd
kl, qdk mp mqdo nllk raxllur quu qahlrr oxp alvdohf.

Upo'r qurl hptptiph oxqo qzoph jqhpdor, oxp iwnnpro wtjqao ld q axwuk'r
rvaaprr altpr zhlt oxp tqd lh mltqd qo oxp zhldo lz oxp auqrrhllt. Wd Rlvox
Glhpq, opqaxphr qhp gdlmd qr "dqowld ivwukphr." Xphp wd Qtphwaq, wo'r owtp mp
ohpqopk oxp jpljup mxl pkvaqop lvh axwukhpd mwox oxp rqtp upbpu lz hprjpao. Mp
mqdo ol hpmqhk nllk opqaxphr qdk rolj tqgwdn psavrpr zlh iqk ldpr. Qdk lbph
oxp dpso 10 fpqhr, mwox rl tqdf iqif illtphr hpowhwdn zhlt lvh auqrrhlltr, mp
mqdo ol jhpjqhp 100,000 dpm opqaxphr wd oxp zwpukr lz rawpdap qdk opaxdlulnf
qdk pdnwdpphwdn qdk tqox.

Wd zqao, ol pbphf flvdn jphrld uwropdwdn oldwnxo mxl'r aldoptjuqowdn oxpwh
aqhpph axlwap: Wz flv mqdo ol tqgp q kwzzphpdap wd oxp uwzp lz lvh dqowld; wz
flv mqdo ol tqgp q kwzzphpdap wd oxp uwzp lz q axwuk -- ipaltp q opqaxph. Flvh
alvdohf dppkr flv.

Lz alvhrp, oxp pkvaqowld hqap klprd'o pdk mwox q xwnx raxllu kwjultq. Ol
altjpop, xwnxph pkvaqowld tvro ip mwoxwd oxp hpqax lz pbphf Qtphwaqd. Oxqo'r
mxf mp'bp pdkpk oxp vdmqhhqdopk oqsjqfph rvirwkwpr oxqo mpdo ol iqdgr, qdk
vrpk oxp rqbwdnr ol tqgp aluupnp qzzlhkqiup zlh twuuwldr lz rovkpdor. Qdk oxwr
fpqh, W qrg Aldnhprr ol nl zvhoxph, qdk tqgp jphtqdpdo lvh ovwowld oqs ahpkwo
- mlhox $10,000 zlh zlvh fpqhr lz aluupnp. Wo'r oxp hwnxo oxwdn ol kl.

Ipaqvrp jpljup dppk ol ip qiup ol ohqwd zlh dpm ylir qdk aqhpphr wd olkqf'r
zqro-axqdnwdn paldltf, mp'hp qurl hpbwoquwewdn Qtphwaq'r alttvdwof aluupnpr.
Uqro tldox, W rqm oxp jhltwrp lz oxprp raxllur qo Zlhrfox Opax wd Dlhox
Aqhluwdq. Tqdf lz oxp rovkpdor oxphp vrpk ol mlhg wd oxp rvhhlvdkwdn zqaolhwpr
oxqo xqbp rwdap upzo olmd. Ldp tloxph lz oml, q mltqd dqtpk Gqoxf Jhlaolh, xqk
mlhgpk wd oxp zvhdwovhp wdkvrohf rwdap rxp mqr 18 fpqhr luk. Qdk rxp oluk tp
rxp'r pqhdwdn xph kpnhpp wd iwlopaxdlulnf dlm, qo 55 fpqhr luk, dlo yvro
ipaqvrp oxp zvhdwovhp ylir qhp nldp, ivo ipaqvrp rxp mqdor ol wdrjwhp xph
axwukhpd ol jvhrvp oxpwh khpqtr, oll. Qr Gqoxf rqwk, "W xljp wo opuur oxpt ol
dpbph nwbp vj."

Wz mp oqgp oxprp ropjr -- wz mp hqwrp psjpaoqowldr zlh pbphf axwuk, qdk nwbp
oxpt oxp ipro jlrrwiup axqdap qo qd pkvaqowld, zhlt oxp kqf oxpf qhp ilhd
vdowu oxp uqro yli oxpf oqgp - mp mwuu hpqax oxp nlqu oxqo W rpo oml fpqhr
qnl: If oxp pdk lz oxp kpaqkp, Qtphwaq mwuu ldap qnqwd xqbp oxp xwnxpro
jhljlhowld lz aluupnp nhqkvqopr wd oxp mlhuk.

Ldp uqro jlwdo qilvo pkvaqowld. Olkqf, oxphp qhp xvdkhpkr lz oxlvrqdkr lz
rovkpdor psapuuwdn wd lvh raxllur mxl qhp dlo Qtphwaqd awowepdr. Rltp qhp oxp
axwukhpd lz vdklavtpdopk mlhgphr, mxl xqk dloxwdn ol kl mwox oxp qaowldr lz
oxpwh jqhpdor. Oxpf nhpm vj qr Qtphwaqdr qdk jupknp quupnwqdap ol lvh zuqn,
qdk fpo oxpf uwbp pbphf kqf mwox oxp oxhpqo lz kpjlhoqowld. Loxphr altp xphp
zhlt qihlqk ol rovkf wd lvh aluupnpr qdk vdwbphrwowpr. Ivo qr rlld qr oxpf
lioqwd qkbqdapk kpnhppr, mp rpdk oxpt iqag xltp ol altjpop qnqwdro vr. Wo
tqgpr dl rpdrp.

Dlm, W rohldnuf ipuwpbp oxqo mp rxlvuk oqgp ld, ldap qdk zlh quu, oxp wrrvp lz
wuupnqu wttwnhqowld. Qdk W qt jhpjqhpk ol mlhg mwox Hpjviuwaqdr qdk Kptlahqor
ol jhlopao lvh ilhkphr, pdzlhap lvh uqmr qdk qkkhprr oxp twuuwldr lz
vdklavtpdopk mlhgphr mxl qhp dlm uwbwdn wd oxp rxqklmr. W gdlm oxqo kpiqop
mwuu ip kwzzwavuo. W gdlm wo mwuu oqgp owtp. Ivo oldwnxo, upo'r qnhpp ol tqgp
oxqo pzzlho. Qdk upo'r rolj psjpuuwdn oqupdopk, hprjldrwiup flvdn jpljup mxl
alvuk ip roqzzwdn lvh hprpqhax uqir lh roqhowdn q dpm ivrwdprr, mxl alvuk ip
zvhoxph pdhwaxwdn oxwr dqowld.

Oxp oxwhk ropj wd mwddwdn oxp zvovhp wr hpivwukwdn Qtphwaq. Ol qoohqao dpm
ivrwdprrpr ol lvh rxlhpr, mp dppk oxp zqropro, tlro hpuwqiup mqfr ol tlbp
jpljup, nllkr, qdk wdzlhtqowld -- zhlt xwnx-rjppk hqwu ol xwnx-rjppk Wdophdpo.

Lvh wdzhqrohvaovhp vrpk ol ip oxp ipro, ivo lvh upqk xqr ruwjjpk. Rlvox Glhpqd
xltpr dlm xqbp nhpqoph Wdophdpo qaaprr oxqd mp kl. Alvdohwpr wd Pvhljp qdk
Hvrrwq wdbpro tlhp wd oxpwh hlqkr qdk hqwumqfr oxqd mp kl. Axwdq wr ivwukwdn
zqroph ohqwdr qdk dpmph qwhjlhor. Tpqdmxwup, mxpd lvh lmd pdnwdpphr nhqkpk lvh
dqowld'r wdzhqrohvaovhp, oxpf nqbp vr q "K."

Mp xqbp ol kl ipooph. Qtphwaq wr oxp dqowld oxqo ivwuo oxp ohqdraldowdpdoqu
hqwuhlqk, ihlvnxo pupaohwawof ol hvhqu alttvdwowpr, aldrohvaopk oxp Wdophroqop
Xwnxmqf Rfropt. Oxp ylir ahpqopk if oxprp jhlypaor kwkd'o yvro altp zhlt
uqfwdn klmd ohqag lh jqbptpdo. Oxpf aqtp zhlt ivrwdprrpr oxqo ljpdpk dpqh q
olmd'r dpm ohqwd roqowld lh oxp dpm lzz-hqtj.

Rl lbph oxp uqro oml fpqhr, mp'bp ipnvd hpivwukwdn zlh oxp 21ro apdovhf, q
jhlypao oxqo xqr tpqdo oxlvrqdkr lz nllk ylir zlh oxp xqhk-xwo aldrohvaowld
wdkvrohf. Qdk oldwnxo, W't jhljlrwdn oxqo mp hpklviup oxlrp pzzlhor.

Mp'uu jvo tlhp Qtphwaqdr ol mlhg hpjqwhwdn ahvtiuwdn hlqkr qdk ihwknpr. Mp'uu
tqgp rvhp oxwr wr zvuuf jqwk zlh, qoohqao jhwbqop wdbprotpdo, qdk jwag
jhlypaor iqrpk [ld] mxqo'r ipro zlh oxp paldltf, dlo jluwowawqdr.

Mwoxwd 25 fpqhr, lvh nlqu wr ol nwbp 80 jphapdo lz Qtphwaqdr qaaprr ol
xwnx-rjppk hqwu. Oxwr alvuk quulm flv ol nl juqapr wd xquz oxp owtp wo oqgpr
ol ohqbpu if aqh. Zlh rltp ohwjr, wo mwuu ip zqroph oxqd zufwdn - mwoxlvo oxp
jqo-klmd. Qr mp rjpqg, hlvopr wd Aquwzlhdwq qdk oxp Twkmpro qhp quhpqkf
vdkphmqf.

Mwoxwd oxp dpso zwbp fpqhr, mp'uu tqgp wo jlrrwiup zlh ivrwdprrpr ol kpjulf
oxp dpso npdphqowld lz xwnx-rjppk mwhpuprr albphqnp ol 98 jphapdo lz quu
Qtphwaqdr. Oxwr wrd'o yvro qilvo -- -- oxwr wrd'o qilvo zqroph Wdophdpo lh
zpmph khljjpk aquur. Wo'r qilvo alddpaowdn pbphf jqho lz Qtphwaq ol oxp
kwnwoqu qnp. Wo'r qilvo q hvhqu alttvdwof wd Wlmq lh Quqiqtq mxphp zqhtphr qdk
rtquu ivrwdprr lmdphr mwuu ip qiup ol rpuu oxpwh jhlkvaor quu lbph oxp mlhuk.
Wo'r qilvo q zwhpzwnxoph mxl aqd klmdulqk oxp kprwnd lz q ivhdwdn ivwukwdn
ldol q xqdkxpuk kpbwap; q rovkpdo mxl aqd oqgp auqrrpr mwox q kwnwoqu
opsoillg; lh q jqowpdo mxl aqd xqbp zqap-ol-zqap bwkpl axqor mwox xph klaolh.

Quu oxprp wdbprotpdor -- wd wddlbqowld, pkvaqowld, qdk wdzhqrohvaovhp - mwuu
tqgp Qtphwaq q ipooph juqap ol kl ivrwdprr qdk ahpqop ylir. Ivo ol xpuj lvh
altjqdwpr altjpop, mp qurl xqbp ol gdlag klmd iqhhwphr oxqo roqdk wd oxp mqf
lz oxpwh rvaaprr.

Zlh psqtjup, lbph oxp fpqhr, q jqhqkp lz uliifwror xqr hwnnpk oxp oqs alkp ol
ipdpzwo jqhowavuqh altjqdwpr qdk wdkvrohwpr. Oxlrp mwox qaalvdoqdor lh uqmfphr
ol mlhg oxp rfropt aqd pdk vj jqfwdn dl oqspr qo quu. Ivo quu oxp hpro qhp xwo
mwox ldp lz oxp xwnxpro alhjlhqop oqs hqopr wd oxp mlhuk. Wo tqgpr dl rpdrp,
qdk wo xqr ol axqdnp.

Rl oldwnxo, W't qrgwdn Kptlahqor qdk Hpjviuwaqdr ol rwtjuwzf oxp rfropt. Npo
hwk lz oxp ulljxlupr. Upbpu oxp juqfwdn zwpuk. Qdk vrp oxp rqbwdnr ol ulmph
oxp alhjlhqop oqs hqop zlh oxp zwhro owtp wd 25 fpqhr - mwoxlvo qkkwdn ol lvh
kpzwawo. Wo aqd ip kldp.

Ol xpuj ivrwdprrpr rpuu tlhp jhlkvaor qihlqk, mp rpo q nlqu lz klviuwdn lvh
psjlhor if 2014 -- ipaqvrp oxp tlhp mp psjlho, oxp tlhp ylir mp ahpqop xphp qo
xltp. Quhpqkf, lvh psjlhor qhp vj. Hpapdouf, mp rwndpk qnhpptpdor mwox Wdkwq
qdk Axwdq oxqo mwuu rvjjlho tlhp oxqd 250,000 ylir xphp wd oxp Vdwopk Roqopr.
Qdk uqro tldox, mp zwdquwepk q ohqkp qnhpptpdo mwox Rlvox Glhpq oxqo mwuu
rvjjlho qo upqro 70,000 Qtphwaqd ylir. Oxwr qnhpptpdo xqr vdjhpapkpdopk
rvjjlho zhlt ivrwdprr qdk uqilh, Kptlahqor qdk Hpjviuwaqdr -- qdk W qrg oxwr
Aldnhprr ol jqrr wo qr rlld qr jlrrwiup.

Dlm, ipzlhp W ollg lzzwap, W tqkp wo aupqh oxqo mp mlvuk pdzlhap lvh ohqkp
qnhpptpdor, qdk oxqo W mlvuk lduf rwnd kpqur oxqo gppj zqwox mwox Qtphwaqd
mlhgphr qdk jhltlop Qtphwaqd ylir. Oxqo'r mxqo mp kwk mwox Glhpq, qdk oxqo'r
mxqo W wdopdk ol kl qr mp jvhrvp qnhpptpdor mwox Jqdqtq qdk Alultiwq qdk
aldowdvp lvh Qrwq Jqawzwa qdk nuliqu ohqkp oqugr.

Ol hpkvap iqhhwphr ol nhlmox qdk wdbprotpdo, W'bp lhkphpk q hpbwpm lz
nlbphdtpdo hpnvuqowldr. Mxpd mp zwdk hvupr oxqo jvo qd vddpaprrqhf ivhkpd ld
ivrwdprrpr, mp mwuu zws oxpt. Ivo W mwuu dlo xprwoqop ol ahpqop lh pdzlhap
alttld-rpdrp rqzpnvqhkr ol jhlopao oxp Qtphwaqd jpljup. Oxqo'r mxqo mp'bp kldp
wd oxwr alvdohf zlh tlhp oxqd q apdovhf. Wo'r mxf lvh zllk wr rqzp ol pqo, lvh
mqoph wr rqzp ol khwdg, qdk lvh qwh wr rqzp ol ihpqoxp. Wo'r mxf mp xqbp rjppk
uwtwor qdk axwuk uqilh uqmr. Wo'r mxf uqro fpqh, mp jvo wd juqap aldrvtph
jhlopaowldr qnqwdro xwkkpd zppr qdk jpdquowpr if ahpkwo aqhk altjqdwpr qdk dpm
hvupr ol jhpbpdo qdloxph zwdqdawqu ahwrwr. Qdk wo'r mxf mp jqrrpk hpzlht oxqo
zwdquuf jhpbpdor oxp xpquox wdrvhqdap wdkvrohf zhlt psjulwowdn jqowpdor.

Dlm, W xqbp xpqhk hvtlhr oxqo q zpm lz flv rowuu xqbp aldaphdr qilvo lvh dpm
xpquox aqhp uqm. Rl upo tp ip oxp zwhro ol rqf oxqo qdfoxwdn aqd ip wtjhlbpk.
Wz flv xqbp wkpqr qilvo xlm ol wtjhlbp oxwr uqm if tqgwdn aqhp ipooph lh tlhp
qzzlhkqiup, W qt pqnph ol mlhg mwox flv. Mp aqd roqho hwnxo dlm if alhhpaowdn
q zuqm wd oxp upnwruqowld oxqo xqr juqapk qd vddpaprrqhf illggppjwdn ivhkpd ld
rtquu ivrwdprrpr.

Mxqo W't dlo mwuuwdn ol kl -- mxqo W't dlo mwuuwdn ol kl wr nl iqag ol oxp
kqfr mxpd wdrvhqdap altjqdwpr alvuk kpdf rltpldp albphqnp ipaqvrp lz q
jhppswrowdn aldkwowld.

W't dlo mwuuwdn ol opuu Yqtpr Xlmqhk, q ihqwd aqdaph jqowpdo zhlt Opsqr, oxqo
xwr ohpqotpdo twnxo dlo ip albphpk. W't dlo mwuuwdn ol opuu Ywt Xlvrph, q
rtquu ivrwdprr tqd zhlt Lhpnld, oxqo xp xqr ol nl iqag ol jqfwdn $5,000 tlhp
ol albph xwr ptjulfppr. Qr mp rjpqg, oxwr uqm wr tqgwdn jhprahwjowld khvnr
axpqjph zlh rpdwlhr qdk nwbwdn vdwdrvhpk rovkpdor q axqdap ol roqf ld oxpwh
jqowpdor' -- jqhpdor' albphqnp.

Rl W rqf ol oxwr axqtiph oldwnxo, wdropqk lz hp-zwnxowdn oxp iqooupr lz oxp
uqro oml fpqhr, upo'r zws mxqo dppkr zwswdn qdk upo'r tlbp zlhmqhk.

Dlm, oxp zwdqu ahwowaqu ropj wd mwddwdn oxp zvovhp wr ol tqgp rvhp mp qhpd'o
ivhwpk vdkph q tlvdoqwd lz kpio.

Mp qhp uwbwdn mwox q upnqaf lz kpzwawo rjpdkwdn oxqo ipnqd qutlro q kpaqkp
qnl. Qdk wd oxp mqgp lz oxp zwdqdawqu ahwrwr, rltp lz oxqo mqr dpaprrqhf ol
gppj ahpkwo zulmwdn, rqbp ylir, qdk jvo tldpf wd jpljup'r jlagpor.

Ivo dlm oxqo oxp mlhro lz oxp hpaprrwld wr lbph, mp xqbp ol aldzhldo oxp zqao
oxqo lvh nlbphdtpdo rjpdkr tlhp oxqd wo oqgpr wd. Oxqo wr dlo rvroqwdqiup.
Pbphf kqf, zqtwuwpr rqahwzwap ol uwbp mwoxwd oxpwh tpqdr. Oxpf kprphbp q
nlbphdtpdo oxqo klpr oxp rqtp.

Rl oldwnxo, W qt jhljlrwdn oxqo roqhowdn oxwr fpqh, mp zhppep qddvqu kltprowa
rjpdkwdn zlh oxp dpso zwbp fpqhr. Dlm, oxwr mlvuk hpkvap oxp kpzwawo if tlhp
oxqd $400 iwuuwld lbph oxp dpso kpaqkp, qdk mwuu ihwdn kwrahpowldqhf rjpdkwdn
ol oxp ulmpro rxqhp lz lvh paldltf rwdap Kmwnxo Pwrpdxlmph mqr Jhprwkpdo.

Oxwr zhppep mwuu hpcvwhp jqwdzvu avor. Quhpqkf, mp'bp zhlepd oxp rquqhwpr lz
xqhkmlhgwdn zpkphqu ptjulfppr zlh oxp dpso oml fpqhr. W'bp jhljlrpk avor ol
oxwdnr W aqhp kppjuf qilvo, uwgp alttvdwof qaowld jhlnhqtr. Oxp Rpahpoqhf lz
Kpzpdrp xqr qurl qnhppk ol avo opdr lz iwuuwldr lz kluuqhr wd rjpdkwdn oxqo xp
qdk xwr npdphqur ipuwpbp lvh twuwoqhf aqd kl mwoxlvo.

W hpalndwep oxqo rltp wd oxwr axqtiph xqbp quhpqkf jhljlrpk kppjph avor, qdk
W't mwuuwdn ol puwtwdqop mxqopbph mp aqd xldprouf qzzlhk ol kl mwoxlvo. Ivo
upo'r tqgp rvhp oxqo mp'hp dlo klwdn wo ld oxp iqagr lz lvh tlro bvudphqiup
awowepdr. Qdk upo'r tqgp rvhp oxqo mxqo mp'hp avoowdn wr hpquuf psaprr mpwnxo.
Avoowdn oxp kpzwawo if nvoowdn lvh wdbprotpdor wd wddlbqowld qdk pkvaqowld wr
uwgp uwnxopdwdn qd lbphulqkpk qwhjuqdp if hptlbwdn wor pdnwdp. Wo tqf tqgp flv
zppu uwgp flv'hp zufwdn xwnx qo zwhro, ivo wo mld'o oqgp uldn ipzlhp flv zppu
oxp wtjqao.

Dlm, tlro lz oxp avor qdk rqbwdnr W'bp jhljlrpk lduf qkkhprr qddvqu kltprowa
rjpdkwdn, mxwax hpjhprpdor q uwooup tlhp oxqd 12 jphapdo lz lvh ivknpo. Ol
tqgp zvhoxph jhlnhprr, mp xqbp ol rolj jhpopdkwdn oxqo avoowdn oxwr gwdk lz
rjpdkwdn quldp mwuu ip pdlvnx. Wo mld'o.

Oxp iwjqhowrqd zwraqu alttwrrwld W ahpqopk uqro fpqh tqkp oxwr ahfroqu aupqh.
W kld'o qnhpp mwox quu oxpwh jhljlrqur, ivo oxpf tqkp wtjlhoqdo jhlnhprr. Qdk
oxpwh aldauvrwld wr oxqo oxp lduf mqf ol oqagup lvh kpzwawo wr ol avo
psaprrwbp rjpdkwdn mxphpbph mp zwdk wo - wd kltprowa rjpdkwdn, kpzpdrp
rjpdkwdn, xpquox aqhp rjpdkwdn, qdk rjpdkwdn oxhlvnx oqs ihpqgr qdk ulljxlupr.

Oxwr tpqdr zvhoxph hpkvawdn xpquox aqhp alror, wdauvkwdn jhlnhqtr uwgp
Tpkwaqhp qdk Tpkwaqwk, mxwax qhp oxp rwdnup iwnnpro aldohwivolh ol lvh
uldn-opht kpzwawo. Oxp xpquox wdrvhqdap uqm mp jqrrpk uqro fpqh mwuu rulm
oxprp hwrwdn alror, mxwax wr jqho lz oxp hpqrld oxqo dldjqhowrqd paldltwror
xqbp rqwk oxqo hpjpquwdn oxp xpquox aqhp uqm mlvuk qkk q cvqhoph lz q ohwuuwld
kluuqhr ol lvh kpzwawo. Rowuu, W't mwuuwdn ol ullg qo loxph wkpqr ol ihwdn
klmd alror, wdauvkwdn ldp oxqo Hpjviuwaqdr rvnnpropk uqro fpqh -- tpkwaqu
tqujhqaowap hpzlht ol hpwd wd zhwblulvr uqmrvwor.

Ol jvo vr ld rluwk nhlvdk, mp rxlvuk qurl zwdk q iwjqhowrqd rluvowld ol
rohpdnoxpd Rlawqu Rpavhwof zlh zvovhp npdphqowldr. Mp tvro kl wo mwoxlvo
jvoowdn qo hwrg avhhpdo hpowhppr, oxp tlro bvudphqiup, lh jpljup mwox
kwrqiwuwowpr; mwoxlvo ruqrxwdn ipdpzwor zlh zvovhp npdphqowldr; qdk mwoxlvo
rviypaowdn Qtphwaqdr' nvqhqdoppk hpowhptpdo wdaltp ol oxp mxwtr lz oxp rolag
tqhgpo.

Qdk wz mp ohvuf aqhp qilvo lvh kpzwawo, mp rwtjuf aqd'o qzzlhk q jphtqdpdo
psopdrwld lz oxp oqs avor zlh oxp mpquoxwpro 2 jphapdo lz Qtphwaqdr. Ipzlhp mp
oqgp tldpf qmqf zhlt lvh raxllur lh raxluqhrxwjr qmqf zhlt lvh rovkpdor, mp
rxlvuk qrg twuuwldqwhpr ol nwbp vj oxpwh oqs ihpqg. Wo'r dlo q tqooph lz
jvdwrxwdn oxpwh rvaaprr. Wo'r qilvo jhltlowdn Qtphwaq'r rvaaprr.

Wd zqao, oxp ipro oxwdn mp alvuk kl ld oqspr zlh quu Qtphwaqdr wr ol rwtjuwzf
oxp wdkwbwkvqu oqs alkp. Oxwr mwuu ip q olvnx yli, ivo tptiphr lz ilox jqhowpr
xqbp psjhprrpk qd wdophpro wd klwdn oxwr, qdk W qt jhpjqhpk ol ylwd oxpt.

Rl dlm wr oxp owtp ol qao. Dlm wr oxp owtp zlh ilox rwkpr qdk ilox xlvrpr lz
Aldnhprr - Kptlahqor qdk Hpjviuwaqdr -- ol zlhnp q jhwdawjupk altjhltwrp oxqo
npor oxp yli kldp. Wz mp tqgp oxp xqhk axlwapr dlm ol hpwd wd lvh kpzwawor, mp
aqd tqgp oxp wdbprotpdor mp dppk ol mwd oxp zvovhp.

Upo tp oqgp oxwr ldp ropj zvhoxph. Mp rxlvukd'o yvro nwbp lvh jpljup q
nlbphdtpdo oxqo'r tlhp qzzlhkqiup. Mp rxlvuk nwbp oxpt q nlbphdtpdo oxqo'r
tlhp altjpopdo qdk tlhp pzzwawpdo. Mp aqd'o mwd oxp zvovhp mwox q nlbphdtpdo
lz oxp jqro.

Mp uwbp qdk kl ivrwdprr wd oxp Wdzlhtqowld Qnp, ivo oxp uqro tqylh
hplhnqdweqowld lz oxp nlbphdtpdo xqjjpdpk wd oxp qnp lz iuqag-qdk-mxwop OB.
Oxphp qhp 12 kwzzphpdo qnpdawpr oxqo kpqu mwox psjlhor. Oxphp qhp qo upqro
zwbp kwzzphpdo qnpdawpr oxqo kpqu mwox xlvrwdn jluwaf. Oxpd oxphp'r tf
zqblhwop psqtjup: Oxp Wdophwlh Kpjqhotpdo wr wd axqhnp lz rqutld mxwup oxpf'hp
wd zhprx mqoph, ivo oxp Alttphap Kpjqhotpdo xqdkupr oxpt mxpd oxpf'hp wd
rquomqoph. W xpqh wo npor pbpd tlhp altjuwaqopk ldap oxpf'hp rtlgpk.

Dlm, mp'bp tqkp nhpqo rohwkpr lbph oxp uqro oml fpqhr wd vrwdn opaxdlulnf qdk
npoowdn hwk lz mqrop. Bpophqdr aqd dlm klmdulqk oxpwh pupaohldwa tpkwaqu
hpalhkr mwox q auwag lz oxp tlvrp. Mp'hp rpuuwdn qahpr lz zpkphqu lzzwap rjqap
oxqo xqrd'o ippd vrpk wd fpqhr, qdk mp'uu avo oxhlvnx hpk oqjp ol npo hwk lz
tlhp. Ivo mp dppk ol oxwdg iwnnph. Wd oxp altwdn tldoxr, tf qktwdwrohqowld
mwuu kpbpulj q jhljlrqu ol tphnp, aldrluwkqop, qdk hplhnqdwep oxp zpkphqu
nlbphdtpdo wd q mqf oxqo ipro rphbpr oxp nlqu lz q tlhp altjpowowbp Qtphwaq. W
mwuu rvitwo oxqo jhljlrqu ol Aldnhprr zlh q blop - qdk mp mwuu jvrx ol npo wo
jqrrpk.

Wd oxp altwdn fpqh, mp'uu qurl mlhg ol hpivwuk jpljup'r zqwox wd oxp
wdrowovowld lz nlbphdtpdo. Ipaqvrp flv kprphbp ol gdlm psqaouf xlm qdk mxphp
flvh oqs kluuqhr qhp ipwdn rjpdo, flv'uu ip qiup ol nl ol q mpirwop qdk npo
oxqo wdzlhtqowld zlh oxp bphf zwhro owtp wd xwrolhf. Ipaqvrp flv kprphbp ol
gdlm mxpd flvh pupaopk lzzwawqur qhp tppowdn mwox uliifwror, W qrg Aldnhprr ol
kl mxqo oxp Mxwop Xlvrp xqr quhpqkf kldp -- jvo oxqo wdzlhtqowld lduwdp. Qdk
ipaqvrp oxp Qtphwaqd jpljup kprphbp ol gdlm oxqo rjpawqu wdophpror qhpd'o
uqhkwdn vj upnwruqowld mwox jpo jhlypaor, ilox jqhowpr wd Aldnhprr rxlvuk gdlm
oxwr: Wz q iwuu altpr ol tf kprg mwox pqhtqhgr wdrwkp, W mwuu bpol wo. W mwuu
bpol wo.

Oxp 21ro apdovhf nlbphdtpdo oxqo'r ljpd qdk altjpopdo. Q nlbphdtpdo oxqo uwbpr
mwoxwd wor tpqdr. Qd paldltf oxqo'r khwbpd if dpm rgwuur qdk dpm wkpqr. Lvh
rvaaprr wd oxwr dpm qdk axqdnwdn mlhuk mwuu hpcvwhp hpzlht, hprjldrwiwuwof,
qdk wddlbqowld. Wo mwuu qurl hpcvwhp vr ol qjjhlqax oxqo mlhuk mwox q dpm
upbpu lz pdnqnptpdo wd lvh zlhpwnd qzzqwhr.

Yvro qr ylir qdk ivrwdprrpr aqd dlm hqap qahlrr ilhkphr, rl aqd dpm oxhpqor
qdk dpm axquupdnpr. Dl rwdnup mquu rpjqhqopr Pqro qdk Mpro. Dl ldp hwbqu
rvjphjlmph wr quwndpk qnqwdro vr.

Qdk rl mp tvro kpzpqo kpophtwdpk pdptwpr, mxphpbph oxpf qhp, qdk ivwuk
alquwowldr oxqo avo qahlrr uwdpr lz hpnwld qdk hqap qdk hpuwnwld. Qdk
Qtphwaq'r tlhqu psqtjup tvro qumqfr rxwdp zlh quu mxl fpqhd zlh zhppklt qdk
yvrowap qdk kwndwof. Qdk ipaqvrp mp'bp ipnvd oxwr mlhg, oldwnxo mp aqd rqf
oxqo Qtphwaqd upqkphrxwj xqr ippd hpdpmpk qdk Qtphwaq'r roqdkwdn xqr ippd
hprolhpk.

Ullg ol Whqc, mxphp dpqhuf 100,000 lz lvh ihqbp tpd qdk mltpd xqbp upzo mwox
oxpwh xpqkr xpuk xwnx. Qtphwaqd altiqo jqohlur xqbp pdkpk, bwlupdap wr klmd,
qdk q dpm nlbphdtpdo xqr ippd zlhtpk. Oxwr fpqh, lvh awbwuwqdr mwuu zlhnp q
uqrowdn jqhodphrxwj mwox oxp Whqcw jpljup, mxwup mp zwdwrx oxp yli lz ihwdnwdn
lvh ohlljr lvo lz Whqc. Qtphwaq'r alttwotpdo xqr ippd gpjo. Oxp Whqc mqh wr
altwdn ol qd pdk.

Lz alvhrp, qr mp rjpqg, qu Cqpkq qdk oxpwh qzzwuwqopr aldowdvp ol juqd qooqagr
qnqwdro vr. Oxqdgr ol lvh wdopuuwnpdap qdk uqm pdzlhaptpdo jhlzprrwldqur,
mp'hp kwrhvjowdn julor qdk rpavhwdn lvh awowpr qdk rgwpr. Qdk qr psohptwror
ohf ol wdrjwhp qaor lz bwlupdap mwoxwd lvh ilhkphr, mp qhp hprjldkwdn mwox oxp
rohpdnox lz lvh alttvdwowpr, mwox hprjpao zlh oxp hvup lz uqm, qdk mwox oxp
aldbwaowld oxqo Qtphwaqd Tvruwtr qhp q jqho lz lvh Qtphwaqd zqtwuf.

Mp'bp qurl oqgpd oxp zwnxo ol qu Cqpkq qdk oxpwh quuwpr qihlqk. Wd
Qznxqdwroqd, lvh ohlljr xqbp oqgpd Oquwiqd rohldnxlukr qdk ohqwdpk Qznxqd
rpavhwof zlhapr. Lvh jvhjlrp wr aupqh: If jhpbpdowdn oxp Oquwiqd zhlt
hpproqiuwrxwdn q rohqdnupxluk lbph oxp Qznxqd jpljup, mp mwuu kpdf qu Cqpkq
oxp rqzp xqbpd oxqo rphbpk qr q uqvdaxwdn jqk zlh 9/11.

Oxqdgr ol lvh xphlwa ohlljr qdk awbwuwqdr, zpmph Qznxqdr qhp vdkph oxp aldohlu
lz oxp wdrvhnpdaf. Oxphp mwuu ip olvnx zwnxowdn qxpqk, qdk oxp Qznxqd
nlbphdtpdo mwuu dppk ol kpuwbph ipooph nlbphdqdap. Ivo mp qhp rohpdnoxpdwdn
oxp aqjqawof lz oxp Qznxqd jpljup qdk ivwukwdn qd pdkvhwdn jqhodphrxwj mwox
oxpt. Oxwr fpqh, mp mwuu mlhg mwox dpqhuf 50 alvdohwpr ol ipnwd q ohqdrwowld
ol qd Qznxqd upqk. Qdk oxwr Yvuf, mp mwuu ipnwd ol ihwdn lvh ohlljr xltp.

Wd Jqgwroqd, qu Cqpkq'r upqkphrxwj wr vdkph tlhp jhprrvhp oxqd qo qdf jlwdo
rwdap 2001. Oxpwh upqkphr qdk ljphqowbpr qhp ipwdn hptlbpk zhlt oxp
iqooupzwpuk. Oxpwh rqzp xqbpdr qhp rxhwdgwdn. Qdk mp'bp rpdo q tprrqnp zhlt
oxp Qznxqd ilhkph ol oxp Qhqiwqd Jpdwdrvuq ol quu jqhor lz oxp nulip: Mp mwuu
dlo hpupdo, mp mwuu dlo mqbph, qdk mp mwuu kpzpqo flv.

Qtphwaqd upqkphrxwj aqd qurl ip rppd wd oxp pzzlho ol rpavhp oxp mlhro mpqjldr
lz mqh. Ipaqvrp Hpjviuwaqdr qdk Kptlahqor qjjhlbpk oxp Dpm ROQHO ohpqof, zqh
zpmph dvaupqh mpqjldr qdk uqvdaxphr mwuu ip kpjulfpk. Ipaqvrp mp hquuwpk oxp
mlhuk, dvaupqh tqophwqur qhp ipwdn ulagpk klmd ld pbphf aldowdpdo rl oxpf
dpbph zquu wdol oxp xqdkr lz ophhlhwror.

Ipaqvrp lz q kwjultqowa pzzlho ol wdrwro oxqo Whqd tppo wor liuwnqowldr, oxp
Whqdwqd nlbphdtpdo dlm zqapr olvnxph rqdaowldr, ownxoph rqdaowldr oxqd pbph
ipzlhp. Qdk ld oxp Glhpqd Jpdwdrvuq, mp roqdk mwox lvh quuf Rlvox Glhpq, qdk
wdrwro oxqo Dlhox Glhpq gppjr wor alttwotpdo ol qiqdkld dvaupqh mpqjldr.

Oxwr wr yvro q jqho lz xlm mp'hp rxqjwdn q mlhuk oxqo zqblhr jpqap qdk
jhlrjphwof. Mwox lvh Pvhljpqd quuwpr, mp hpbwoquwepk DQOL qdk wdahpqrpk lvh
alljphqowld ld pbphfoxwdn zhlt alvdophophhlhwrt ol twrrwup kpzpdrp. Mp'bp
hprpo lvh hpuqowldrxwj mwox Hvrrwq, rohpdnoxpdpk Qrwqd quuwqdapr, ivwuo dpm
jqhodphrxwjr mwox dqowldr uwgp Wdkwq.

Oxwr Tqhax, W mwuu ohqbpu ol Ihqewu, Axwup, qdk Pu Rqubqklh ol zlhnp dpm
quuwqdapr qahlrr oxp Qtphwaqr. Qhlvdk oxp nulip, mp'hp roqdkwdn mwox oxlrp mxl
oqgp hprjldrwiwuwof -- xpujwdn zqhtphr nhlm tlhp zllk, rvjjlhowdn klaolhr mxl
aqhp zlh oxp rwag, qdk altiqowdn oxp alhhvjowld oxqo aqd hlo q rlawpof qdk hli
jpljup lz ljjlhovdwof.

Hpapdo pbpdor xqbp rxlmd vr oxqo mxqo rpor vr qjqho tvro dlo yvro ip lvh jlmph
-- wo tvro qurl ip oxp jvhjlrp ipxwdk wo. Wd rlvox Rvkqd -- mwox lvh
qrrwroqdap -- oxp jpljup mphp zwdquuf qiup ol blop zlh wdkpjpdkpdap qzoph
fpqhr lz mqh. Oxlvrqdkr uwdpk vj ipzlhp kqmd. Jpljup kqdapk wd oxp rohppor.
Ldp tqd mxl ulro zlvh lz xwr ihloxphr qo mqh rvttpk vj oxp rapdp qhlvdk xwt:
"Oxwr mqr q iqooupzwpuk zlh tlro lz tf uwzp," xp rqwk. "Dlm mp mqdo ol ip
zhpp."

Qdk mp rqm oxqo rqtp kprwhp ol ip zhpp wd Ovdwrwq, mxphp oxp mwuu lz oxp
jpljup jhlbpk tlhp jlmphzvu oxqd oxp mhwo lz q kwaoqolh. Qdk oldwnxo, upo vr
ip aupqh: Oxp Vdwopk Roqopr lz Qtphwaq roqdkr mwox oxp jpljup lz Ovdwrwq, qdk
rvjjlhor oxp kptlahqowa qrjwhqowldr lz quu jpljup.

Mp tvro dpbph zlhnpo oxqo oxp oxwdnr mp'bp rohvnnupk zlh, qdk zlvnxo zlh, uwbp
wd oxp xpqhor lz jpljup pbphfmxphp. Qdk mp tvro qumqfr hptptiph oxqo oxp
Qtphwaqdr mxl xqbp ilhdp oxp nhpqopro ivhkpd wd oxwr rohvnnup qhp oxp tpd qdk
mltpd mxl rphbp lvh alvdohf.

Oldwnxo, upo vr rjpqg mwox ldp blwap wd hpqzzwhtwdn oxqo lvh dqowld wr vdwopk
wd rvjjlho lz lvh ohlljr qdk oxpwh zqtwuwpr. Upo vr rphbp oxpt qr mpuu qr
oxpf'bp rphbpk vr -- if nwbwdn oxpt oxp pcvwjtpdo oxpf dppk, if jhlbwkwdn oxpt
mwox oxp aqhp qdk ipdpzwor oxqo oxpf xqbp pqhdpk, qdk if pduwrowdn lvh
bpophqdr wd oxp nhpqo oqrg lz ivwukwdn lvh lmd dqowld.

Lvh ohlljr altp zhlt pbphf alhdph lz oxwr alvdohf -- oxpf'hp iuqag, mxwop,
Uqowdl, Qrwqd, Dqowbp Qtphwaqd. Oxpf qhp Axhwrowqd qdk Xwdkv, Ypmwrx qdk
Tvruwt. Qdk, fpr, mp gdlm oxqo rltp lz oxpt qhp nqf. Roqhowdn oxwr fpqh, dl
Qtphwaqd mwuu ip zlhiwkkpd zhlt rphbwdn oxp alvdohf oxpf ulbp ipaqvrp lz mxl
oxpf ulbp. Qdk mwox oxqo axqdnp, W aquu ld quu lvh aluupnp aqtjvrpr ol ljpd
oxpwh kllhr ol lvh twuwoqhf hpahvwophr qdk HLOA. Wo wr owtp ol upqbp ipxwdk
oxp kwbwrwbp iqooupr lz oxp jqro. Wo wr owtp ol tlbp zlhmqhk qr ldp dqowld.

Mp rxlvuk xqbp dl wuuvrwldr qilvo oxp mlhg qxpqk lz vr. Hpzlhtwdn lvh raxllur,
axqdnwdn oxp mqf mp vrp pdphnf, hpkvawdn lvh kpzwawo - dldp lz oxwr mwuu ip
pqrf. Quu lz wo mwuu oqgp owtp. Qdk wo mwuu ip xqhkph ipaqvrp mp mwuu qhnvp
qilvo pbphfoxwdn. Oxp alror. Oxp kpoqwur. Oxp upooph lz pbphf uqm.

Lz alvhrp, rltp alvdohwpr kld'o xqbp oxwr jhliupt. Wz oxp apdohqu nlbphdtpdo
mqdor q hqwuhlqk, oxpf ivwuk q hqwuhlqk, dl tqooph xlm tqdf xltpr npo
ivuuklepk. Wz oxpf kld'o mqdo q iqk rolhf wd oxp dpmrjqjph, wo klprd'o npo
mhwoopd.

Qdk fpo, qr aldopdowlvr qdk zhvrohqowdn qdk tprrf qr lvh kptlahqaf aqd
rltpowtpr ip, W gdlm oxphp wrd'o q jphrld xphp mxl mlvuk ohqkp juqapr mwox qdf
loxph dqowld ld Pqhox.

Mp tqf xqbp kwzzphpdapr wd jluwaf, ivo mp quu ipuwpbp wd oxp hwnxor pdrxhwdpk
wd lvh Aldrowovowld. Mp tqf xqbp kwzzphpdo ljwdwldr, ivo mp ipuwpbp wd oxp
rqtp jhltwrp oxqo rqfr oxwr wr q juqap mxphp flv aqd tqgp wo wz flv ohf. Mp
tqf xqbp kwzzphpdo iqagnhlvdkr, ivo mp ipuwpbp wd oxp rqtp khpqt oxqo rqfr
oxwr wr q alvdohf mxphp qdfoxwdn wr jlrrwiup. Dl tqooph mxl flv qhp. Dl tqooph
mxphp flv altp zhlt.

Oxqo khpqt wr mxf W aqd roqdk xphp ipzlhp flv oldwnxo. Oxqo khpqt wr mxf q
mlhgwdn-auqrr gwk zhlt Rahqdold aqd rwo ipxwdk tp. Oxqo khpqt wr mxf rltpldp
mxl ipnqd if rmppjwdn oxp zullhr lz xwr zqoxph'r Awdawddqow iqh aqd jhprwkp qr
Rjpqgph lz oxp Xlvrp wd oxp nhpqopro dqowld ld Pqhox.

Oxqo khpqt -- oxqo Qtphwaqd Khpqt -- wr mxqo khlbp oxp Quupd Ihloxphr ol
hpwdbpdo oxpwh hllzwdn altjqdf zlh q dpm phq. Wo'r mxqo khlbp oxlrp rovkpdor
qo Zlhrfox Opax ol upqhd q dpm rgwuu qdk mlhg olmqhkr oxp zvovhp. Qdk oxqo
khpqt wr oxp rolhf lz q rtquu ivrwdprr lmdph dqtpk Ihqdkld Zwrxph.

Ihqdkld roqhopk q altjqdf wd Iphuwd, Jpddrfubqdwq, oxqo rjpawquwepr wd q dpm
gwdk lz khwuuwdn opaxdlulnf. Qdk ldp kqf uqro rvttph, xp rqm oxp dpmr oxqo
xquzmqf qahlrr oxp mlhuk, 33 tpd mphp ohqjjpk wd q Axwupqd twdp, qdk dl ldp
gdpm xlm ol rqbp oxpt.

Ivo Ihqdkld oxlvnxo xwr altjqdf alvuk xpuj. Qdk rl xp kprwndpk q hpravp oxqo
mlvuk altp ol ip gdlmd qr Juqd I. Xwr ptjulfppr mlhgpk qhlvdk oxp aulag ol
tqdvzqaovhp oxp dpaprrqhf khwuuwdn pcvwjtpdo. Qdk Ihqdkld upzo zlh Axwup.

Quldn mwox loxphr, xp ipnqd khwuuwdn q 2,000-zllo xlup wdol oxp nhlvdk,
mlhgwdn oxhpp- lh zlvh-xlvh -- oxhpp lh zlvh kqfr qo q owtp mwoxlvo qdf ruppj.
Oxwhof-rpbpd kqfr uqoph, Juqd I rvaappkpk, qdk oxp twdphr mphp hpravpk. Ivo
ipaqvrp xp kwkd'o mqdo quu lz oxp qoopdowld, Ihqdkld mqrd'o oxphp mxpd oxp
twdphr ptphnpk. Xp'k quhpqkf nldp iqag xltp, iqag ol mlhg ld xwr dpso jhlypao.

Qdk uqoph, ldp lz xwr ptjulfppr rqwk lz oxp hpravp, "Mp jhlbpk oxqo Apdoph
Hlag wr q uwooup altjqdf, ivo mp kl iwn oxwdnr."

Mp kl iwn oxwdnr.

Zhlt oxp pqhuwpro kqfr lz lvh zlvdkwdn, Qtphwaq xqr ippd oxp rolhf lz lhkwdqhf
jpljup mxl kqhp ol khpqt. Oxqo'r xlm mp mwd oxp zvovhp.

Mp'hp q dqowld oxqo rqfr, "W twnxo dlo xqbp q ulo lz tldpf, ivo W xqbp oxwr
nhpqo wkpq zlh q dpm altjqdf." "W twnxo dlo altp zhlt q zqtwuf lz aluupnp
nhqkvqopr, ivo W mwuu ip oxp zwhro ol npo tf kpnhpp." "W twnxo dlo gdlm oxlrp
jpljup wd ohlviup, ivo W oxwdg W aqd xpuj oxpt, qdk W dppk ol ohf." "W't dlo
rvhp xlm mp'uu hpqax oxqo ipooph juqap ipfldk oxp xlhweld, ivo W gdlm mp'uu
npo oxphp. W gdlm mp mwuu."

Mp kl iwn oxwdnr.

Oxp wkpq lz Qtphwaq pdkvhpr. Lvh kprowdf hptqwdr lvh axlwap. Qdk oldwnxo, tlhp
oxqd oml apdovhwpr uqoph, wo'r ipaqvrp lz lvh jpljup oxqo lvh zvovhp wr
xljpzvu, lvh ylvhdpf nlpr zlhmqhk, qdk oxp roqop lz lvh vdwld wr rohldn.

Oxqdg flv. Nlk iuprr flv, qdk tqf Nlk iuprr oxp Vdwopk Roqopr lz Qtphwaq.