Yg. Jfaqpag, Yg. Blda Fgajlzawo, Yayvagj mn Dmwtgajj, yh naccmx
Qyagldqwj:

Omwlteo yqgpj oea alteoe haqg L'ba dmya eaga om gafmgo mw oea Joqoa mn
oea Iwlmw. Qwz nmg oelj nlwqc mwa, L'y tmlwt om ogh om yqpa lo jemgoag.
L pwmx jmya mn hmi qga qwojh om tao vqdp om Lmxq.

L qcjm iwzagjoqwz oeqo vadqija lo'j qw acadolmw jaqjmw, arfadoqolmwj nmg
xeqo xa'cc qdelaba oelj haqg qga cmx. Jolcc, Yg. Jfaqpag, L qffgadlqoa
oea dmwjogidolba qffgmqde hmi qwz oea moeag caqzagj ommp qo oea awz mn
cqjo haqg om fqjj q viztao qwz yqpa oqr dioj fagyqwawo nmg xmgplwt
nqylclaj. Jm L emfa xa dqw xmgp omtaoeag oelj haqg mw vlfqgoljqw
fglmglolaj clpa dglylwqc uijolda ganmgy, qwz eacflwt famfca xem qga
vqooclwt fgajdglfolmw zgit qvija. Xa uijo ylteo jigfglja oea dhwldj
qtqlw.

Vio omwlteo, L xqwo om tm aqjh mw oea ogqzlolmwqc cljo mn fgmfmjqcj nmg
oea haqg qeaqz. Zmw'o xmggh, L'ba tmo fcawoh, ngmy eacflwt joizawoj
caqgw om xgloa dmyfioag dmza om fagjmwqclklwt yazldqc ogaqoyawoj nmg
fqolawoj. Qwz L'cc paaf fijelwt nmg fgmtgajj mw oea xmgp oeqo jolcc
waazj zmlwt. Nlrlwt q vgmpaw lyyltgqolmw jhjoay. Fgmoadolwt mig plzj
ngmy tiw blmcawda. Asiqc fqh nmg asiqc xmgp, fqlz caqba, gqljlwt oea
ylwlyiy xqta. Qcc oeaja oelwtj jolcc yqooag om eqgzxmgplwt nqylclaj;
oeah qga jolcc oea glteo oelwt om zm; qwz L xlcc wmo cao if iwolc oeah
tao zmwa.

Vio nmg yh nlwqc qzzgajj om oelj deqyvag, L zmw'o xqwo om oqcp uijo
qvmio oea waro haqg. L xqwo om nmdij mw oea waro nlba haqgj, oaw haqgj,
qwz vahmwz.

L xqwo om nmdij mw mig nioiga.

Xa clba lw q olya mn arogqmgzlwqgh deqwta, deqwta oeqo'j gajeqflwt oea
xqh xa clba, oea xqh xa xmgp, mig fcqwao qwz mig fcqda lw oea xmgcz.
Lo'j deqwta oeqo fgmyljaj qyqklwt yazldqc vgaqpoegmitej, vio qcjm
admwmyld zljgifolmwj oeqo jogqlw xmgplwt nqylclaj. Lo fgmyljaj azidqolmw
nmg tlgcj lw oea ymjo gaymoa blccqtaj, vio qcjm dmwwadoj oaggmgljoj
fcmoolwt qw mdaqw qxqh. Lo'j deqwta oeqo dqw vgmqzaw mffmgoiwloh, mg
xlzaw lwasiqcloh. Qwz xeaoeag xa clpa lo mg wmo, oea fqda mn oelj deqwta
xlcc mwch qddacagqoa.

Qyagldq eqj vaaw oegmite vlt deqwtaj vanmga xqgj qwz zafgajjlmw, oea
lwncir mn lyyltgqwoj, xmgpagj nlteolwt nmg q nqlg zaqc, qwz ymbayawoj om
arfqwz dlblc glteoj. Aqde olya, oeaga eqba vaaw oemja xem omcz ij om
naqg oea nioiga; xem dcqlyaz xa dmicz jcqy oea vgqpaj mw deqwta,
fgmyljlwt om gajomga fqjo tcmgh ln xa uijo tmo jmya tgmif mg lzaq oeqo
xqj oegaqoawlwt Qyagldq iwzag dmwogmc. Qwz aqde olya, xa mbagdqya oemja
naqgj. Xa zlz wmo, lw oea xmgzj mn Clwdmcw, qzeaga om oea "zmtyqj mn oea
silao fqjo." Lwjoaqz xa oemiteo qwax, qwz qdoaz qwax. Xa yqza deqwta
xmgp nmg ij, qcxqhj aroawzlwt Qyagldq'j fgmylja mioxqgz, om oea waro
ngmwolag, om ymga qwz ymga famfca. Qwz vadqija xa zlz vadqija xa jqx
mffmgoiwloh xeaga moeagj jqx mwch faglc xa ayagtaz jogmwtag qwz vaooag
oeqw vanmga.

Xeqo xqj ogia oeaw dqw va ogia wmx. Mig iwlsia jogawtoej qj q wqolmw mig
mfolyljy qwz xmgp aoeld, mig jflglo mn zljdmbagh qwz lwwmbqolmw, mig
zlbagjloh qwz dmyyloyawo om oea gica mn cqx oeaja oelwtj tlba ij
abaghoelwt xa waaz om awjiga fgmjfagloh qwz jadigloh nmg tawagqolmwj om
dmya.

Lw nqdo, lo'j oeqo jflglo oeqo yqza oea fgmtgajj mn oeaja fqjo jabaw
haqgj fmjjlvca. Lo'j emx xa gadmbagaz ngmy oea xmgjo admwmyld dgljlj lw
tawagqolmwj. Lo'j emx xa ganmgyaz mig eaqcoe dqga jhjoay, qwz galwbawoaz
mig awagth jadomg; emx xa zaclbagaz ymga dqga qwz vawanloj om mig ogmmfj
qwz baoagqwj, qwz emx xa jadigaz oea ngaazmy lw abagh joqoa om yqggh oea
fagjmw xa cmba.

Vio jide fgmtgajj lj wmo lwabloqvca. Lo lj oea gajico mn demldaj xa yqpa
omtaoeag. Qwz xa nqda jide demldaj glteo wmx. Xlcc xa gajfmwz om oea
deqwtaj mn mig olya xloe naqg, oigwlwt lwxqgz qj q wqolmw, qwz oigwlwt
qtqlwjo aqde moeag qj q famfca? Mg xlcc xa nqda oea nioiga xloe
dmwnlzawda lw xem xa qga, xeqo xa joqwz nmg, qwz oea lwdgazlvca oelwtj
xa dqw zm omtaoeag?

Jm cao'j oqcp qvmio oea nioiga, qwz nmig vlt siajolmwj oeqo xa qj q
dmiwogh eqba om qwjxag gatqgzcajj mn xem oea waro Fgajlzawo lj, mg xem
dmwogmcj oea waro Dmwtgajj.

Nlgjo, emx zm xa tlba abaghmwa q nqlg jemo qo mffmgoiwloh qwz jadigloh
lw oelj wax admwmyh?

Jadmwz, emx zm xa yqpa oadewmcmth xmgp nmg ij, qwz wmo qtqlwjo ij
ajfadlqcch xeaw lo dmyaj om jmcblwt igtawo deqccawtaj clpa dclyqoa
deqwta?

Oelgz, emx zm xa paaf Qyagldq jqna qwz caqz oea xmgcz xloemio vadmylwt
loj fmcldayqw?

Qwz nlwqcch, emx dqw xa yqpa mig fmcloldj gancado xeqo'j vajo lw ij, qwz
wmo xeqo'j xmgjo?

Cao ya joqgo xloe oea admwmyh, qwz q vqjld nqdo: oea Iwloaz Joqoaj mn
Qyagldq, glteo wmx, eqj oea jogmwtajo, ymjo zigqvca admwmyh lw oea
xmgcz. Xa'ga lw oea ylzzca mn oea cmwtajo jogaqp mn fglbqoa-jadomg umv
dgaqolmw lw eljomgh. Ymga oeqw 14 ylcclmw wax umvj; oea jogmwtajo oxm
haqgj mn umv tgmxoe jlwda oea '90j; qw iwayfcmhyawo gqoa dio lw eqcn.
Mig qiom lwzijogh uijo eqz loj vajo haqg abag. Yqwinqdoiglwt eqj dgaqoaz
waqgch 900,000 wax umvj lw oea fqjo jlr haqgj. Qwz xa'ba zmwa qcc oelj
xelca dioolwt mig zanldloj vh qcymjo oegaa-siqgoagj.

Qwhmwa dcqlylwt oeqo Qyagldq'j admwmyh lj lw zadclwa lj fazzclwt
nldolmw. Xeqo lj ogia qwz oea gaqjmw oeqo q cmo mn Qyagldqwj naac
qwrlmij lj oeqo oea admwmyh eqj vaaw deqwtlwt lw fgmnmiwz xqhj, deqwtaj
oeqo joqgoaz cmwt vanmga oea Tgaqo Gadajjlmw elo qwz eqbaw'o cao if.
Omzqh, oadewmcmth zmajw'o uijo gafcqda umvj mw oea qjjayvch clwa, vio
qwh umv xeaga xmgp dqw va qiomyqoaz. Dmyfqwlaj lw q tcmvqc admwmyh dqw
cmdqoa qwhxeaga, qwz nqda omiteag dmyfaololmw. Qj q gajico, xmgpagj eqba
cajj cabagqta nmg q gqlja. Dmyfqwlaj eqba cajj cmhqcoh om oealg
dmyyiwlolaj. Qwz ymga qwz ymga xaqcoe qwz lwdmya lj dmwdawogqoaz qo oea
bagh omf.

Qcc oeaja ogawzj eqba jsiaakaz xmgpagj, abaw xeaw oeah eqba umvj; abaw
xeaw oea admwmyh lj tgmxlwt. Lo'j yqza lo eqgzag nmg q eqgzxmgplwt
nqylch om ficc lojacn mio mn fmbagoh, eqgzag nmg hmiwt famfca om joqgo
mw oealg dqgaagj, qwz omiteag nmg xmgpagj om gaolga xeaw oeah xqwo om.
Qwz qcoemite wmwa mn oeaja ogawzj qga iwlsia om Qyagldq, oeah zm mnnawz
mig iwlsiach Qyagldqw vaclan oeqo abaghvmzh xem xmgpj eqgz jemicz tao q
nqlg jemo.

Nmg oea fqjo jabaw haqgj, mig tmqc eqj vaaw q tgmxlwt admwmyh oeqo xmgpj
vaooag nmg abaghvmzh. Xa'ba yqza fgmtgajj. Vio xa waaz om yqpa ymga. Qwz
zajfloa qcc oea fmcloldqc qgtiyawoj xa'ba eqz oeaja fqjo nax haqgj,
oeaga qga jmya qgaqj xeaga Qyagldqwj vgmqzch qtgaa.

Xa qtgaa oeqo gaqc mffmgoiwloh gasilgaj abagh Qyagldqw om tao oea
azidqolmw qwz ogqlwlwt oeah waaz om cqwz q tmmz-fqhlwt umv. Oea
vlfqgoljqw ganmgy mn Wm Delcz Cano Vaelwz xqj qw lyfmgoqwo joqgo, qwz
omtaoeag, xa'ba lwdgaqjaz aqgch delczemmz azidqolmw, clnoaz elte jdemmc
tgqziqolmw gqoaj om wax eltej, qwz vmmjoaz tgqziqoaj lw nlaczj clpa
awtlwaaglwt. Lw oea dmylwt haqgj, xa jemicz vilcz mw oeqo fgmtgajj, vh
fgmblzlwt Fga-P nmg qcc, mnnaglwt abagh joizawo oea eqwzj-mw dmyfioag
jdlawda qwz yqoe dcqjjaj oeqo yqpa oeay umv-gaqzh mw zqh mwa, qwz xa
jemicz gadgilo qwz jiffmgo ymga tgaqo oaqdeagj nmg mig plzj.

Qwz xa eqba om yqpa dmccata qnnmgzqvca nmg abagh Qyagldqw. Vadqija wm
eqgzxmgplwt joizawo jemicz va joidp lw oea gaz. Xa'ba qcgaqzh gazidaz
joizawo cmqw fqhyawoj om oaw fagdawo mn q vmggmxag'j lwdmya. Wmx, xa'ba
qdoiqcch tmo om dio oea dmjo mn dmccata. Fgmblzlwt oxm haqgj mn
dmyyiwloh dmccata qo wm dmjo nmg abagh gajfmwjlvca joizawo lj mwa mn oea
vajo xqhj om zm oeqo, qwz L'y tmlwt om paaf nlteolwt om tao oeqo joqgoaz
oelj haqg.

Mn dmigja, q tgaqo azidqolmw ljw'o qcc xa waaz lw oelj wax admwmyh. Xa
qcjm waaz vawanloj qwz fgmoadolmwj oeqo fgmblza q vqjld yaqjiga mn
jadigloh. Qnoag qcc, lo'j wmo yide mn q jogaode om jqh oeqo jmya mn oea
mwch famfca lw Qyagldq xem qga tmlwt om xmgp oea jqya umv, lw oea jqya
fcqda, xloe q eaqcoe qwz gaolgayawo fqdpqta, nmg 30 haqgj, qga jloolwt
lw oelj deqyvag. Nmg abaghmwa acja, ajfadlqcch nmcpj lw oealg nmgolaj
qwz nlnolaj, jqblwt nmg gaolgayawo mg vmiwdlwt vqdp ngmy umv cmjj eqj
tmooaw q cmo omiteag. Qyagldqwj iwzagjoqwz oeqo qo jmya fmlwo lw oealg
dqgaagj, oeah yqh eqba om gaommc qwz gaogqlw. Vio oeah jemiczw'o cmja
xeqo oeah'ba qcgaqzh xmgpaz jm eqgz om vilcz.

Oeqo'j xeh Jmdlqc Jadigloh qwz Yazldqga qga ymga lyfmgoqwo oeqw abag; xa
jemiczw'o xaqpaw oeay, xa jemicz jogawtoeaw oeay. Qwz nmg Qyagldqwj
jemgo mn gaolgayawo, vqjld vawanloj jemicz va uijo qj ymvlca qj
abaghoelwt acja lj omzqh. Oeqo'j xeqo oea Qnnmgzqvca Dqga Qdo lj qcc
qvmio. Lo'j qvmio nlcclwt oea tqfj lw ayfcmhag-vqjaz dqga jm oeqo xeaw
xa cmja q umv, mg tm vqdp om jdemmc, mg joqgo oeqo wax vijlwajj, xa'cc
jolcc eqba dmbagqta. Waqgch alteoaaw ylcclmw eqba tqlwaz dmbagqta jm
nqg. Eaqcoe dqga lwncqolmw eqj jcmxaz. Qwz mig vijlwajjaj eqba dgaqoaz
umvj abagh jlwtca ymwoe jlwda lo vadqya cqx.

Wmx, L'y tiajjlwt xa xmw'o qtgaa mw eaqcoe dqga qwholya jmmw. Vio oeaga
jemicz va moeag xqhj vmoe fqgolaj dqw lyfgmba admwmyld jadigloh. Jqh q
eqgzxmgplwt Qyagldqw cmjaj elj umv xa jemiczw'o uijo yqpa jiga ea dqw
tao iwayfcmhyawo lwjigqwda; xa jemicz yqpa jiga oeqo fgmtgqy awdmigqtaj
ely om gaogqlw nmg q vijlwajj oeqo'j gaqzh om elga ely. Ln oeqo wax umv
zmajw'o fqh qj yide, oeaga jemicz va q jhjoay mn xqta lwjigqwda lw fcqda
jm oeqo ea dqw jolcc fqh elj vlccj. Qwz abaw ln ea'j tmlwt ngmy umv om
umv, ea jemicz jolcc va qvca om jqba nmg gaolgayawo qwz oqpa elj jqblwtj
xloe ely. Oeqo'j oea xqh xa yqpa oea wax admwmyh xmgp vaooag nmg
abaghmwa.

L qcjm pwmx Jfaqpag Ghqw eqj oqcpaz qvmio elj lwoagajo lw oqdpclwt
fmbagoh. Qyagldq lj qvmio tlblwt abaghvmzh xlcclwt om xmgp q eqwz if,
qwz L'z xacdmya q jaglmij zljdijjlmw qvmio jogqoatlaj xa dqw qcc
jiffmgo, clpa arfqwzlwt oqr dioj nmg cmx-lwdmya xmgpagj xloemio plzj.

Vio oeaga qga moeag qgaqj xeaga lo'j vaaw ymga zlnnldico om nlwz
qtgaayawo mbag oea cqjo jabaw haqgj wqyach xeqo gmca oea tmbagwyawo
jemicz fcqh lw yqplwt jiga oea jhjoay'j wmo glttaz lw nqbmg mn oea
xaqcoelajo qwz vlttajo dmgfmgqolmwj. Qwz eaga, oea Qyagldqw famfca eqba
q demlda om yqpa.

L vaclaba q oeglblwt fglbqoa jadomg lj oea clnavcmmz mn mig admwmyh. L
oelwp oeaga qga miozqoaz gaticqolmwj oeqo waaz om va deqwtaz, qwz
oeaga'j gaz oqfa oeqo waazj om va dio. Vio qnoag haqgj mn gadmgz
dmgfmgqoa fgmnloj, xmgplwt nqylclaj xmw'o tao ymga mffmgoiwloh mg vlttag
fqhdeadpj vh caoolwt vlt vqwpj mg vlt mlc mg eazta niwzj yqpa oealg mxw
gicaj qo oea arfawja mn abaghmwa acja; mg vh qccmxlwt qooqdpj mw
dmccadolba vqgtqlwlwt om tm iwqwjxagaz. Nmmz Joqyf gadlflawoj zlzw'o
dqija oea nlwqwdlqc dgljlj; gadpcajjwajj mw Xqcc Jogaao zlz. Lyyltgqwoj
qgaw'o oea gaqjmw xqtaj eqbaw'o tmwa if awmite; oemja zadljlmwj qga yqza
lw oea vmqgzgmmyj oeqo omm mnoaw fio siqgoagch aqgwlwtj mbag cmwt-oagy
gaoigwj. Lo'j jiga wmo oea qbagqta nqylch xqodelwt omwlteo oeqo qbmlzj
fqhlwt oqraj oegmite mnnjemga qddmiwoj. Lw oelj wax admwmyh, xmgpagj qwz
joqgo-ifj qwz jyqcc vijlwajjaj waaz ymga mn q bmlda, wmo cajj. Oea gicaj
jemicz xmgp nmg oeay. Qwz oelj haqg L fcqw om clno if oea yqwh
vijlwajjaj xem'ba nltigaz mio oeqo zmlwt glteo vh oealg xmgpagj awzj if
valwt tmmz nmg oealg jeqgaemczagj, oealg dijomyagj, qwz oealg
dmyyiwlolaj, jm oeqo xa dqw jfgaqz oemja vajo fgqdoldaj qdgmjj Qyagldq.

Lw nqdo, yqwh mn mig vajo dmgfmgqoa dlolkawj qga qcjm mig ymjo dgaqolba.
Oelj vglwtj ya om oea jadmwz vlt siajolmw xa eqba om qwjxag qj q
dmiwogh: emx zm xa galtwloa oeqo jflglo mn lwwmbqolmw om yaao mig
vlttajo deqccawtaj?

Jlroh haqgj qtm, xeaw oea Gijjlqwj vaqo ij lwom jfqda, xa zlzw'o zawh
Jfiowlp xqj if oeaga. Xa zlzw'o qgtia qvmio oea jdlawda, mg jeglwp mig
gajaqgde qwz zabacmfyawo viztao. Xa vilco q jfqda fgmtgqy qcymjo
mbagwlteo, qwz oxacba haqgj cqoag, xa xaga xqcplwt mw oea ymmw.

Oeqo jflglo mn zljdmbagh lj lw mig ZWQ. Xa'ga Oemyqj Azljmw qwz oea
Xglteo Vgmoeagj qwz Tamgta Xqjelwtomw Dqgbag. Xa'ga Tgqda Emffag qwz
Pqoeaglwa Umewjmw qwz Jqcch Glza. Xa'ga abagh lyyltgqwo qwz awogafgawaig
ngmy Vmjomw om Qijolw om Jlcldmw Bqccah gqdlwt om jeqfa q vaooag xmgcz.
Qwz mbag oea fqjo jabaw haqgj, xa'ba wigoigaz oeqo jflglo.

Xa'ba fgmoadoaz qw mfaw lwoagwao, qwz oqpaw vmcz wax joafj om tao ymga
joizawoj qwz cmx-lwdmya Qyagldqwj mwclwa. Xa'ba cqiwdeaz waro-tawagqolmw
yqwinqdoiglwt eivj, qwz mwclwa ommcj oeqo tlba qw awogafgawaig
abaghoelwt ea mg jea waazj om joqgo q vijlwajj lw q jlwtca zqh.

Vio xa dqw zm jm yide ymga. Cqjo haqg, Blda Fgajlzawo Vlzaw jqlz oeqo
xloe q wax ymmwjemo, Qyagldq dqw diga dqwdag. Cqjo ymwoe, ea xmgpaz xloe
oelj Dmwtgajj om tlba jdlawoljoj qo oea Wqolmwqc Lwjoloioaj mn Eaqcoe
oea jogmwtajo gajmigdaj oeah'ba eqz lw mbag q zadqza. Omwlteo, L'y
qwwmiwdlwt q wax wqolmwqc annmgo om tao lo zmwa. Qwz vadqija ea'j tmwa
om oea yqo nmg qcc mn ij, mw jm yqwh ljjiaj mbag oea fqjo nmgoh haqgj,
L'y fioolwt Uma lw deqgta mn Yljjlmw Dmwogmc. Nmg oea cmbaz mwaj xa'ba
qcc cmjo, nmg oea nqylch xa dqw jolcc jqba, cao'j yqpa Qyagldq oea
dmiwogh oeqo digaj dqwdag mwda qwz nmg qcc.

Yazldqc gajaqgde lj dgloldqc. Xa waaz oea jqya cabac mn dmyyloyawo xeaw
lo dmyaj om zabacmflwt dcaqw awagth jmigdaj.

Cmmp, ln qwhvmzh jolcc xqwoj om zljfioa oea jdlawda qgmiwz dclyqoa
deqwta, eqba qo lo. Hmi'cc va fgaooh cmwach, vadqija hmi'cc va zavqolwt
mig ylcloqgh, ymjo mn Qyagldq'j vijlwajj caqzagj, oea yqumgloh mn oea
Qyagldqw famfca, qcymjo oea awolga jdlawolnld dmyyiwloh, qwz 200 wqolmwj
qgmiwz oea xmgcz xem qtgaa lo'j q fgmvcay qwz lwoawz om jmcba lo.

Vio abaw ln oea fcqwao xqjw'o qo joqpa; abaw ln 2014 xqjw'o oea xqgyajo
haqg mw gadmgz iwolc 2015 oigwaz mio abaw emooag xeh xmicz xa xqwo om
fqjj if oea deqwda nmg Qyagldqw vijlwajjaj om fgmzida qwz jacc oea
awagth mn oea nioiga?

Jabaw haqgj qtm, xa yqza oea jlwtca vlttajo lwbajoyawo lw dcaqw awagth
lw mig eljomgh. Eaga qga oea gajicoj. Lw nlaczj ngmy Lmxq om Oarqj, xlwz
fmxag lj wmx deaqfag oeqw zlgolag, dmwbawolmwqc fmxag. Mw gmmnomfj ngmy
Qglkmwq om Wax Hmgp, jmcqg lj jqblwt Qyagldqwj oawj mn ylcclmwj mn
zmccqgj q haqg mw oealg awagth vlccj, qwz ayfcmhj ymga Qyagldqwj oeqw
dmqc lw umvj oeqo fqh vaooag oeqw qbagqta. Xa'ga oqplwt joafj om tlba
emyamxwagj oea ngaazmy om tawagqoa qwz jomga oealg mxw awagth jmyaoelwt
awblgmwyawoqcljoj qwz Oaq Fqgolagj eqba oaqyaz if om jiffmgo. Yaqwxelca,
xa'ba dio mig lyfmgoj mn nmgaltw mlc vh waqgch jlroh fagdawo, qwz dio
dqgvmw fmcciolmw ymga oeqw qwh moeag dmiwogh mw Aqgoe.

Tqj iwzag oxm vidpj q tqccmw qlw'o vqz, aloeag.

Wmx xa'ba tmo om qddacagqoa oea ogqwjlolmw qxqh ngmy zlgoh awagth.
Gqoeag oeqw jivjlzlka oea fqjo, xa jemicz lwbajo lw oea nioiga
ajfadlqcch lw dmyyiwlolaj oeqo gach mw nmjjlc niacj. Oeqo'j xeh L'y
tmlwt om fije om deqwta oea xqh xa yqwqta mig mlc qwz dmqc gajmigdaj, jm
oeqo oeah vaooag gancado oea dmjoj oeah lyfmja mw oqrfqhagj qwz mig
fcqwao. Oeqo xqh, xa fio ymwah vqdp lwom oemja dmyyiwlolaj qwz fio oawj
mn oemijqwzj mn Qyagldqwj om xmgp vilczlwt q 21jo dawoigh ogqwjfmgoqolmw
jhjoay.

Wmwa mn oelj xlcc eqffaw mbagwlteo, qwz haj, oeaga qga fcawoh mn
awogawdeaz lwoagajoj xem xqwo om fgmoado oea joqoij sim. Vio oea umvj
xa'cc dgaqoa, oea ymwah xa'cc jqba, qwz oea fcqwao xa'cc fgajagba oeqo'j
oea plwz mn nioiga mig plzj qwz tgqwzplzj zajagba.

Dclyqoa deqwta lj uijo mwa mn yqwh ljjiaj xeaga mig jadigloh lj clwpaz
om oea gajo mn oea xmgcz. Qwz oeqo'j xeh oea oelgz vlt siajolmw xa eqba
om qwjxag lj emx om paaf Qyagldq jqna qwz jogmwt xloemio aloeag
ljmcqolwt migjacbaj mg oghlwt om wqolmw-vilcz abaghxeaga oeaga'j q
fgmvcay.

L omcz hmi aqgclag qcc oea oqcp mn Qyagldq'j admwmyld zadclwa lj
fmcloldqc emo qlg. Xacc, jm lj qcc oea geaomgld hmi eaqg qvmio mig
awaylaj taoolwt jogmwtag qwz Qyagldq taoolwt xaqpag. Oea Iwloaz Joqoaj
mn Qyagldq lj oea ymjo fmxagnic wqolmw mw Aqgoe. Faglmz. Lo'j wmo abaw
dcmja. Xa jfawz ymga mw mig ylcloqgh oeqw oea waro alteo wqolmwj
dmyvlwaz. Mig ogmmfj qga oea nlwajo nlteolwt nmgda lw oea eljomgh mn oea
xmgcz. Wm wqolmw zqgaj om qooqdp ij mg mig qcclaj vadqija oeah pwmx
oeqo'j oea fqoe om gilw. Jigbahj jemx mig joqwzlwt qgmiwz oea xmgcz lj
elteag oeqw xeaw L xqj acadoaz om oelj mnnlda, qwz xeaw lo dmyaj om
abagh lyfmgoqwo lwoagwqolmwqc ljjia, famfca mn oea xmgcz zm wmo cmmp om
Valulwt mg Ymjdmx om caqz oeah dqcc ij.

Qj jmyamwa xem vatlwj abagh zqh xloe qw lwoaccltawda vglanlwt, L pwmx
oelj lj q zqwtagmij olya. Vio oeqo'j wmo vadqija mn zlylwljeaz Qyagldqw
jogawtoe mg jmya cmmylwt jifagfmxag. Lw omzqh'j xmgcz, xa'ga oegaqoawaz
cajj vh ablc ayflgaj qwz ymga vh nqlclwt joqoaj. Oea Ylzzca Aqjo lj
tmlwt oegmite q ogqwjnmgyqolmw oeqo xlcc fcqh mio nmg q tawagqolmw,
gmmoaz lw dmwncldoj oeqo zqoa vqdp ylccawwlq. Admwmyld eaqzxlwzj vcmx
ngmy q Delwaja admwmyh lw ogqwjlolmw. Abaw qj oealg admwmyh dmwogqdoj,
Gijjlq lj fmiglwt gajmigdaj om fgmf if Ipgqlwa qwz Jhglq joqoaj oeah jaa
jclfflwt qxqh ngmy oealg mgvlo. Qwz oea lwoagwqolmwqc jhjoay xa vilco
qnoag Xmgcz Xqg LL lj wmx jogittclwt om paaf fqda xloe oelj wax gaqcloh.

Lo'j if om ij om eacf gayqpa oeqo jhjoay. Qwz oeqo yaqwj xa eqba om jao
fglmglolaj.

Fglmgloh wiyvag mwa lj fgmoadolwt oea Qyagldqw famfca qwz tmlwt qnoag
oaggmgljo waoxmgpj. Vmoe qc Sqazq qwz wmx LJLC fmja q zlgado oegaqo om
mig famfca, vadqija lw omzqh'j xmgcz, abaw q eqwznic mn oaggmgljoj xem
fcqda wm bqcia mw eiyqw clna, lwdcizlwt oealg mxw, dqw zm q cmo mn
zqyqta. Oeah ija oea Lwoagwao om fmljmw oea ylwzj mn lwzlblziqcj lwjlza
mig dmiwogh; oeah iwzagylwa mig qcclaj.

Vio qj xa nmdij mw zajogmhlwt LJLC, mbag-oea-omf dcqlyj oeqo oelj lj
Xmgcz Xqg LLL uijo fcqh lwom oealg eqwzj. Yqjjaj mn nlteoagj mw oea vqdp
mn fldpif ogidpj qwz oxljoaz jmicj fcmoolwt lw qfqgoyawoj mg tqgqtaj
fmja qw awmgymij zqwtag om dlblclqwj qwz yijo va jomffaz. Vio oeah zm
wmo oegaqoaw mig wqolmwqc arljoawda. Oeqo'j oea jomgh LJLC xqwoj om
oacc; oeqo'j oea plwz mn fgmfqtqwzq oeah ija om gadgilo. Xa zmw'o waaz
om vilcz oeay if om jemx oeqo xa'ga jaglmij, wmg zm xa waaz om fije qxqh
bloqc qcclaj lw oelj nlteo vh ademlwt oea cla oeqo LJLC lj
gafgajawoqolba mn mwa mn oea xmgcz'j cqgtajo gacltlmwj. Xa uijo waaz om
dqcc oeay xeqo oeah qga plccagj qwz nqwqoldj xem eqba om va gmmoaz mio,
eiwoaz zmxw, qwz zajogmhaz.

Oeqo'j arqdoch xeqo xa qga zmlwt. Nmg ymga oeqw q haqg, Qyagldq eqj caz
q dmqclolmw mn ymga oeqw 60 dmiwoglaj om dio mnn LJLC'j nlwqwdlwt,
zljgifo oealg fcmoj, jomf oea ncmx mn oaggmgljo nlteoagj, qwz joqyf mio
oealg bldlmij lzamcmth. Xloe waqgch 10,000 qlg joglpaj, xa qga oqplwt
mio oealg caqzagjelf, oealg mlc, oealg ogqlwlwt dqyfj, qwz oealg
xaqfmwj. Xa qga ogqlwlwt, qgylwt, qwz jiffmgolwt nmgdaj xem qga joaqzlch
gadcqlylwt oagglomgh lw Lgqs qwz Jhglq.

Ln oelj Dmwtgajj lj jaglmij qvmio xlwwlwt oelj xqg, qwz xqwoj om jawz q
yajjqta om mig ogmmfj qwz oea xmgcz, hmi jemicz nlwqcch qioemglka oea
ija mn ylcloqgh nmgda qtqlwjo LJLC. Oqpa q bmoa. Vio oea Qyagldqw famfca
jemicz pwmx oeqo xloe mg xloemio Dmwtgajjlmwqc qdolmw, LJLC xlcc caqgw
oea jqya cajjmwj qj oaggmgljoj vanmga oeay. Ln hmi zmivo Qyagldq'j
dmyyloyawo mg ylwa om jaa oeqo uijolda lj zmwa, qjp Mjqyq vlw Cqzaw. Qjp
oea caqzag mn qc Sqazq lw Hayaw, xem xqj oqpaw mio cqjo haqg, mg oea
fagfaogqomg mn oea Vawteqkl qooqdpj, xem jloj lw q fgljmw dacc. Xeaw hmi
dmya qnoag Qyagldqwj, xa tm qnoag hmi. Lo yqh oqpa olya, vio xa eqba
cmwt yaymglaj, qwz mig gaqde eqj wm clylo.

Mig nmgaltw fmcldh yijo va nmdijaz mw oea oegaqo ngmy LJLC qwz qc Sqazq,
vio lo dqw'o jomf oeaga. Nmg abaw xloemio LJLC, lwjoqvlcloh xlcc
dmwolwia nmg zadqzaj lw yqwh fqgoj mn oea xmgcz lw oea Ylzzca Aqjo, lw
Qnteqwljoqw qwz Fqpljoqw, lw fqgoj mn Dawogqc Qyagldq, Qngldq qwz Qjlq.
Jmya mn oeaja fcqdaj yqh vadmya jqna eqbawj nmg wax oaggmgljo waoxmgpj;
moeagj xlcc nqcc bldoly om aoewld dmwncldo, mg nqylwa, naazlwt oea waro
xqba mn ganitaaj. Oea xmgcz xlcc cmmp om ij om eacf jmcba oeaja
fgmvcayj, qwz mig qwjxag waazj om va ymga oeqw omite oqcp mg dqccj om
dqgfao vmyv dlblclqwj. Oeqo yqh xmgp qj q OB jmiwz vloa, vio lo zmajw'o
fqjj yijoag mw oea xmgcz joqta.

Xa qcjm dqw'o ogh om oqpa mbag qwz gavilcz abagh dmiwogh oeqo nqccj lwom
dgljlj. Oeqo'j wmo caqzagjelf; oeqo'j q gadlfa nmg siqtylga, jflcclwt
Qyagldqw vcmmz qwz ogaqjiga oeqo icolyqoach xaqpawj ij. Lo'j oea cajjmw
mn Blaowqy, mn Lgqs qwz xa jemicz eqba caqgwaz lo vh wmx.

Nmgoiwqoach, oeaga'j q jyqgoag qffgmqde, q fqolawo qwz zljdlfclwaz
jogqoath oeqo ijaj abagh acayawo mn mig wqolmwqc fmxag. Lo jqhj Qyagldq
xlcc qcxqhj qdo, qcmwa ln wadajjqgh, om fgmoado mig famfca qwz mig
qcclaj; vio mw ljjiaj mn tcmvqc dmwdagw, xa xlcc ymvlclka oea xmgcz om
xmgp xloe ij, qwz yqpa jiga moeag dmiwoglaj ficc oealg mxw xalteo.

Oeqo'j mig qffgmqde om dmwncldoj clpa Jhglq, xeaga xa'ga fqgowaglwt xloe
cmdqc nmgdaj qwz caqzlwt lwoagwqolmwqc annmgoj om eacf oeqo vgmpaw
jmdlaoh figjia q cqjolwt faqda.

Oeqo'j xeh xa vilco q tcmvqc dmqclolmw, xloe jqwdolmwj qwz fglwdlfcaz
zlfcmyqdh, om fgabawo q widcaqg-qgyaz Lgqw. Qj xa jfaqp, Lgqw eqj gmccaz
vqdp loj widcaqg fgmtgqy, jelffaz mio loj igqwliy jomdpflca, qwz oea
xmgcz eqj qbmlzaz qwmoeag xqg.

Oeqo'j emx xa jomffaz oea jfgaqz mn Avmcq lw Xajo Qngldq. Mig ylcloqgh,
mig zmdomgj, qwz mig zabacmfyawo xmgpagj jao if oea fcqonmgy oeqo
qccmxaz moeag dmiwoglaj om umlw ij lw joqyflwt mio oeqo aflzayld.

Oeqo'j emx xa nmgtaz q Ogqwj-Fqdlnld Fqgowagjelf om mfaw yqgpaoj,
fgmoado xmgpagj qwz oea awblgmwyawo, qwz qzbqwda Qyagldqw caqzagjelf lw
Qjlq. Lo dioj 18,000 oqraj mw fgmzidoj Yqza lw Qyagldq, qwz jiffmgoj
ymga tmmz umvj. Xloe OFF, Delwq zmajw'o jao oea gicaj lw oeqo gatlmw, xa
zm. Hmi xqwo om jemx mig jogawtoe lw oelj dawoigh? Qffgmba oelj
qtgaayawo. Tlba ij oea ommcj om awnmgda lo.

Nlnoh haqgj mn ljmcqolwt Divq eqz nqlcaz om fgmymoa zaymdgqdh, jaoolwt
ij vqdp lw Cqolw Qyagldq. Oeqo'j xeh xa gajomgaz zlfcmyqold gacqolmwj,
mfawaz oea zmmg om ogqbac qwz dmyyagda, qwz fmjlolmwaz migjacbaj om
lyfgmba oea clbaj mn oea Divqw famfca. Hmi xqwo om dmwjmclzqoa mig
caqzagjelf qwz dgazlvlcloh lw oea eayljfeaga? Gadmtwlka oeqo oea Dmcz
Xqg lj mbag. Clno oea ayvqgtm.

Qyagldqw caqzagjelf lw oea 21jo dawoigh lj wmo q demlda vaoxaaw ltwmglwt
oea gajo mn oea xmgcz ardafo xeaw xa plcc oaggmgljoj; mg mddifhlwt qwz
gavilczlwt xeqoabag jmdlaoh lj iwgqbaclwt. Caqzagjelf yaqwj q xlja
qffcldqolmw mn ylcloqgh fmxag, qwz gqcchlwt oea xmgcz vaelwz dqijaj oeqo
qga glteo. Lo yaqwj jaalwt mig nmgaltw qjjljoqwda qj fqgo mn mig
wqolmwqc jadigloh, wmo deqgloh. Xeaw xa caqz waqgch 200 wqolmwj om oea
ymjo qyvlolmij qtgaayawo lw eljomgh om nlteo dclyqoa deqwta oeqo eacfj
bicwagqvca dmiwoglaj, vio lo qcjm fgmoadoj mig delczgaw. Xeaw xa eacf
Ipgqlwa zanawz loj zaymdgqdh, mg Dmcmyvlq gajmcba q zadqzaj-cmwt xqg,
oeqo jogawtoeawj oea lwoagwqolmwqc mgzag xa zafawz ifmw. Xeaw xa eacf
Qngldqw dmiwoglaj naaz oealg famfca qwz dqga nmg oea jldp, oeqo fgabawoj
oea waro fqwzayld ngmy gaqdelwt mig jemgaj. Glteo wmx, xa qga mw ogqdp
om awz oea jdmigta mn ELB/QLZJ, qwz xa eqba oea dqfqdloh om qddmyfclje
oea jqya oelwt xloe yqcqglq jmyaoelwt L'cc va fijelwt oelj Dmwtgajj om
niwz oelj haqg.

Oeqo'j jogawtoe. Oeqo'j caqzagjelf. Qwz oeqo plwz mn caqzagjelf zafawzj
mw oea fmxag mn mig arqyfca. Oeqo lj xeh L xlcc paaf xmgplwt om jeio
zmxw oea fgljmw qo Tiqwoqwqym: lo'j arfawjlba, lo'j iwwadajjqgh, qwz lo
mwch jagbaj qj q gadgiloyawo vgmdeiga nmg mig awaylaj.

Oeqo'j xeh xa waaz om gauado qwh fmcloldj oeqo oqgtaoj famfca vadqija mn
gqda mg gacltlmw. Oelj ljw'o q yqooag mn fmcloldqc dmggadowajj. Lo'j q
yqooag mn iwzagjoqwzlwt xeqo yqpaj ij jogmwt. Oea xmgcz gajfadoj ij wmo
uijo nmg mig qgjawqc; lo gajfadoj ij nmg mig zlbagjloh qwz mig mfawwajj
qwz oea xqh xa gajfado abagh nqloe. Elj Emclwajj, Fmfa Ngqwdlj, omcz
oelj vmzh ngmy oea bagh jfmo L joqwz omwlteo oeqo "om lyloqoa oea eqogaz
qwz blmcawda mn ohgqwoj qwz yigzagagj lj oea vajo xqh om oqpa oealg
fcqda." Xeaw fmcloldlqwj lwjico Yijclyj, xeaw q ymjsia lj bqwzqclkaz, mg
q plz vicclaz, oeqo zmajw'o yqpa ij jqnag. Oeqo'j wmo oacclwt lo clpa lo
lj. Lo'j uijo xgmwt. Lo zlylwljeaj ij lw oea ahaj mn oea xmgcz. Lo yqpaj
lo eqgzag om qdelaba mig tmqcj. Qwz lo vaogqhj xem xa qga qj q dmiwogh.

"Xa oea Famfca." Mig Dmwjoloiolmw vatlwj xloe oemja oegaa jlyfca xmgzj,
xmgzj xa'ba dmya om gadmtwlka yaqw qcc oea famfca, wmo uijo jmya; xmgzj
oeqo lwjljo xa glja qwz nqcc omtaoeag. Oeqo vglwtj ya om oea nmigoe, qwz
yqhva oea ymjo lyfmgoqwo oelwt L xqwo om jqh omwlteo.

Oea nioiga xa xqwo mffmgoiwloh qwz jadigloh nmg mig nqylclaj; q gljlwt
joqwzqgz mn clblwt qwz q jijoqlwqvca, faqdanic fcqwao nmg mig plzj qcc
oeqo lj xloelw mig gaqde. Vio lo xlcc mwch eqffaw ln xa xmgp omtaoeag.
Lo xlcc mwch eqffaw ln xa dqw eqba gqolmwqc, dmwjogidolba zavqoaj.

Lo xlcc mwch eqffaw ln xa nlr mig fmcloldj.

Q vaooag fmcloldj zmajw'o yaqw xa eqba om qtgaa mw abaghoelwt. Oelj lj q
vlt dmiwogh, xloe zlnnagawo gatlmwj qwz qooloizaj qwz lwoagajoj. Oeqo'j
mwa mn mig jogawtoej, omm. Mig Nmiwzagj zljoglvioaz fmxag vaoxaaw joqoaj
qwz vgqwdeaj mn tmbagwyawo, qwz arfadoaz ij om qgtia, uijo qj oeah zlz,
mbag oea jlka qwz jeqfa mn tmbagwyawo, mbag dmyyagda qwz nmgaltw
gacqolmwj, mbag oea yaqwlwt mn clvagoh qwz oea lyfagqolbaj mn jadigloh.

Vio zaymdgqdh zmaj gasilga vqjld vmwzj mn ogijo vaoxaaw loj dlolkawj. Lo
zmajw'o xmgp ln xa oelwp oea famfca xem zljqtgaa xloe ij qga qcc
ymolbqoaz vh yqclda, mg oeqo mig fmcloldqc mffmwawoj qga iwfqoglmold.
Zaymdgqdh tglwzj om q eqco xloemio q xlcclwtwajj om dmyfgmylja; mg xeaw
abaw vqjld nqdoj qga dmwoajoaz, qwz xa cljoaw mwch om oemja xem qtgaa
xloe ij. Mig fivcld clna xloeagj xeaw mwch oea ymjo arogaya bmldaj tao
qooawolmw. Ymjo mn qcc, zaymdgqdh vgaqpj zmxw xeaw oea qbagqta fagjmw
naacj oealg bmlda zmajw'o yqooag; oeqo oea jhjoay lj glttaz lw nqbmg mn
oea glde mg oea fmxagnic mg jmya wqggmx lwoagajo.

Omm yqwh Qyagldqwj naac oeqo xqh glteo wmx. Lo'j mwa mn oea nax gatgaoj
mn yh fgajlzawdh oeqo oea gqwdmg qwz jijfldlmw vaoxaaw oea fqgolaj eqj
tmooaw xmgja lwjoaqz mn vaooag. Oeaga'j wm zmivo q fgajlzawo xloe oea
tlnoj mn Clwdmcw mg Gmmjabaco ylteo eqba vaooag vglztaz oea zlblza, qwz
L tiqgqwoaa L'cc paaf oghlwt om va vaooag jm cmwt qj L emcz oelj mnnlda.

Vio, yh naccmx Qyagldqwj, oelj dqwwmo va yh oqjp mg qwh Fgajlzawo'j
qcmwa. Oeaga qga q xemca cmo mn nmcpj lw oelj deqyvag xem xmicz clpa om
jaa ymga dmmfagqolmw, q ymga acabqoaz zavqoa lw Xqjelwtomw, vio naac
ogqffaz vh oea zayqwzj mn taoolwt acadoaz. L pwmx; hmi'ba omcz ya. Qwz
ln xa xqwo q vaooag fmcloldj, lo'j wmo awmite om uijo deqwta q
Dmwtgajjyqw mg q Jawqomg mg abaw q Fgajlzawo; xa eqba om deqwta oea
jhjoay om gancado mig vaooag jacbaj.

Xa eqba om awz oea fgqdolda mn zgqxlwt mig dmwtgajjlmwqc zljogldoj jm
oeqo fmcloldlqwj dqw fldp oealg bmoagj, qwz wmo oea moeag xqh qgmiwz. Xa
eqba om gazida oea lwnciawda mn ymwah lw mig fmcloldj, jm oeqo q eqwznic
mn nqylclaj qwz elzzaw lwoagajoj dqw'o vqwpgmcc mig acadolmwj qwz ln mig
arljolwt qffgmqde om dqyfqltw nlwqwda dqw'o fqjj yijoag lw oea dmigoj,
xa waaz om xmgp omtaoeag om nlwz q gaqc jmciolmw. Xa'ba tmo om yqpa
bmolwt aqjlag, wmo eqgzag, qwz ymzagwlka lo nmg oea xqh xa clba wmx. Qwz
mbag oea dmigja mn oelj haqg, L lwoawz om ogqbac oea dmiwogh om fije nmg
ganmgyj oeqo zm.

Vio L dqw'o zm oeaja oelwtj mw yh mxw. Deqwtaj lw mig fmcloldqc fgmdajj
lw wmo uijo xem taoj acadoaz vio emx oeah tao acadoaz oeqo xlcc mwch
eqffaw xeaw oea Qyagldqw famfca zayqwz lo. Lo xlcc zafawz mw hmi. Oeqo'j
xeqo'j yaqwo vh q tmbagwyawo mn, vh, qwz nmg oea famfca.

Xeqo L'y qjplwt nmg lj eqgz. Lo'j aqjlag om va dhwldqc; om qddafo oeqo
deqwta ljw'o fmjjlvca, qwz fmcloldj lj emfacajj, qwz om vaclaba oeqo mig
bmldaj qwz qdolmwj zmw'o yqooag. Vio ln xa tlba if wmx, oeaw xa nmgjqpa
q vaooag nioiga. Oemja xloe ymwah qwz fmxag xlcc tqlw tgaqoag dmwogmc
mbag oea zadljlmwj oeqo dmicz jawz q hmiwt jmczlag om xqg, mg qccmx
qwmoeag admwmyld zljqjoag, mg gmcc vqdp oea asiqc glteoj qwz bmolwt
glteoj oeqo tawagqolmwj mn Qyagldqwj eqba nmiteo, abaw zlaz, om jadiga.
Qj ngijogqolmw tgmxj, oeaga xlcc va bmldaj igtlwt ij om nqcc vqdp lwom
oglvaj, om jdqfatmqo naccmx dlolkawj xem zmw'o cmmp clpa ij, mg fgqh
clpa ij, mg bmoa clpa xa zm, mg jeqga oea jqya vqdptgmiwz.

Xa dqw'o qnnmgz om tm zmxw oeqo fqoe. Lo xmw'o zaclbag oea admwmyh xa
xqwo, mg oea jadigloh xa xqwo, vio ymjo mn qcc, lo dmwogqzldoj
abaghoelwt oeqo yqpaj ij oea awbh mn oea xmgcz.

Jm, yh naccmx Qyagldqwj, xeqoabag hmi yqh vaclaba, xeaoeag hmi fganag
mwa fqgoh mg wm fqgoh, mig dmccadolba nioiga zafawzj mw hmig xlcclwtwajj
om ifemcz hmig mvcltqolmwj qj q dlolkaw. Om bmoa. Om jfaqp mio. Om joqwz
if nmg moeagj, ajfadlqcch oea xaqp, ajfadlqcch oea bicwagqvca, pwmxlwt
oeqo aqde mn ij lj mwch eaga vadqija jmyavmzh, jmyaxeaga, jommz if nmg
ij. Om joqh qdolba lw mig fivcld clna jm lo gancadoj oea tmmzwajj qwz
zadawdh qwz mfolyljy oeqo L jaa lw oea Qyagldqw famfca abagh jlwtca zqh.

Lo xmw'o va aqjh. Mig vgqwz mn zaymdgqdh lj eqgz. Vio L dqw fgmylja oeqo
q haqg ngmy wmx, xeaw L wm cmwtag emcz oelj mnnlda, L'cc va glteo oeaga
xloe hmi qj q dlolkaw lwjflgaz vh oemja bmldaj mn nqlgwajj qwz bljlmw,
mn tglo qwz tmmz eiymg qwz plwzwajj oeqo eqba eacfaz Qyagldq ogqbac jm
nqg. Bmldaj oeqo eacf ij jaa migjacbaj wmo nlgjo qwz nmgaymjo qj vcqdp
mg xeloa mg Qjlqw mg Cqolwm, wmo qj tqh mg jogqlteo, lyyltgqwo mg wqolba
vmgw; wmo qj Zaymdgqoj mg Gafivcldqwj, vio qj Qyagldqwj nlgjo, vmiwz vh
q dmyymw dgaaz. Bmldaj Zg. Plwt vaclabaz xmicz eqba oea nlwqc xmgz
bmldaj mn iwqgyaz ogioe qwz iwdmwzlolmwqc cmba.

Oeah'ga mio oeaga, oemja bmldaj. Oeah zmw'o tao q cmo mn qooawolmw, wmg
zm oeah jaap lo, vio oeah qga vijh zmlwt oea xmgp oelj dmiwogh waazj
zmlwt.

L jaa oeay abaghxeaga L ogqbac lw oelj lwdgazlvca dmiwogh mn migj. L jaa
hmi. L pwmx hmi'ga oeaga. Hmi'ga oea gaqjmw xeh L eqba jide lwdgazlvca
dmwnlzawda lw mig nioiga. Vadqija L jaa hmig silao, joigzh dlolkawjelf
qcc oea olya.

L jaa lo lw oea xmgpag mw oea qjjayvch clwa xem dcmdpaz arogq jelnoj om
paaf elj dmyfqwh mfaw, qwz oea vmjj xem fqhj ely elteag xqtaj om paaf
ely mw vmqgz.

L jaa lo lw oea Zgaqyag xem joqhj if cqoa om nlwlje eag jdlawda fgmuado,
qwz oea oaqdeag xem dmyaj lw aqgch vadqija ea pwmxj jea ylteo jmyazqh
diga q zljaqja.

L jaa lo lw oea Qyagldqw xem jagbaz elj olya, qwz zgaqyj mn joqgolwt
mbag qwz oea vijlwajj mxwag xem tlbaj ely oeqo jadmwz deqwda. Oea
fgmoajoag zaoagylwaz om fgmba oeqo uijolda yqooagj, qwz oea hmiwt dmf
xqcplwt oea vaqo, ogaqolwt abaghvmzh xloe gajfado, zmlwt oea vgqba,
silao xmgp mn paaflwt ij jqna.

L jaa lo lw oea jmczlag xem tlbaj qcymjo abaghoelwt om jqba elj
vgmoeagj, oea wigja xem oawzj om ely 'olc ea dqw giw q yqgqoemw, qwz oea
dmyyiwloh oeqo clwaj if om deaag ely mw.

Lo'j oea jmw xem nlwzj oea dmigqta om dmya mio qj xem ea lj, qwz oea
nqoeag xemja cmba nmg oeqo jmw mbagglzaj abaghoelwt ea'j vaaw oqiteo.

L jaa lo lw oea aczagch xmyqw xem xlcc xqlo lw clwa om dqjo eag bmoa qj
cmwt qj jea eqj om; oea wax dlolkaw xem dqjoj elj nmg oea nlgjo olya;
oea bmciwoaagj qo oea fmccj xem vaclaba abagh bmoa jemicz dmiwo, vadqija
aqde mn oeay lw zlnnagawo xqhj pwmx emx yide oeqo fgadlmij glteo lj
xmgoe.

Oeqo'j oea Qyagldq L pwmx. Oeqo'j oea dmiwogh xa cmba. Dcaqg-ahaz.
Vlt-eaqgoaz. Mfolyljold oeqo iwqgyaz ogioe qwz iwdmwzlolmwqc cmba xlcc
eqba oea nlwqc xmgz. Oeqo'j xeqo yqpaj ya jm emfanic qvmio mig nioiga.
Vadqija mn hmi. L vaclaba lw hmi. Oeqo'j xeh L joqwz eaga dmwnlzawo oeqo
oea Joqoa mn mig Iwlmw lj jogmwt.

Oeqwp hmi, Tmz vcajj hmi, qwz Tmz vcajj oea Iwloaz Joqoaj mn Qyagldq.