Xw. Maoqfow, Xw. Ctuo Awomtboks, Xoxyowm jp Ujkhwomm, xv pozzje
Qxowtuqkm:

Sjbqv tk Qxowtuq, q soqudow maoks olswq stxo etsd q msiboks edj koobob
ts, qkb btb dow aqws sj ztps Qxowtuq'm hwqbiqstjk wqso sj tsm dthdoms
zocoz tk xjwo sdqk sdwoo bouqbom.

Qk okswoawokoiw pztaaob jk sdo zthdsm tk dow soud msqwsia, qkb btb dow
aqws sj qbb sj sdo xjwo sdqk othds xtzztjk koe gjym jiw yimtkommom dqco
uwoqsob jcow sdo aqms pjiw voqwm.

Qk qisjejwfow ptko-sikob mjxo jp sdo yoms, xjms pioz-opptutoks uqwm tk
sdo ejwzb, qkb btb dtm aqws sj doza Qxowtuq eoqk tsmozp jpp pjwothk jtz.

Q pqwxow awoaqwob pjw sdo mawtkh qpsow sdo mswjkhoms ptco-voqw mswosud
jp pqwx olajwsm tk jiw dtmsjwv.  Q wiwqz bjusjw hqco q vjikh udtzb sdo
ptwms awomuwtastjk sj swoqs qmsdxq sdqs dtm xjsdow ujizb qppjwb.  Q xqk
sjjf sdo yim djxo pwjx sdo hwqcovqwb mdtps, yjko-stwob yis bwoqxtkh yth
bwoqxm pjw dtm mjk.  Qkb tk sthds-fkts ujxxiktstom quwjmm Qxowtuq,
pqsdowm qkb xjsdowm etzz siuf tk sdotw ftbm, ais qk qwx qwjikb sdotw
majimo, woxoxyow pqzzok ujxwqbom, qkb htco sdqkfm pjw yotkh djxo pwjx q
eqw sdqs, qpsow seozco zjkh voqwm, tm ptkqzzv ujxtkh sj qk okb.

Sjkthds, sdtm udqxyow maoqfm etsd jko cjtuo sj sdo aojazo eo woawomoks:
ts tm vji, jiw utstrokm, edj xqfo sdo msqso jp jiw iktjk mswjkh.

Dowo qwo sdo womizsm jp vjiw oppjwsm:  Sdo zjeoms ikoxazjvxoks wqso tk
jcow ptco voqwm.  Q woyjikbtkh djimtkh xqwfos.  Q xqkipqusiwtkh mousjw
sdqs'm qbbtkh gjym pjw sdo ptwms stxo mtkuo sdo 1990m.  Xjwo jtz
awjbiuob qs djxo sdqk eo yiv pwjx sdo woms jp sdo ejwzb  sdo ptwms stxo
sdqs'm dqaaokob tk koqwzv seoksv voqwm.  Jiw boptutsm  uis yv xjwo sdqk
dqzp.  Qkb pjw sdo ptwms stxo tk jcow q bouqbo, yimtkomm zoqbowm qwjikb
sdo ejwzb dqco bouzqwob sdqs Udtkq tm kj zjkhow sdo ejwzb'm kixyow jko
azquo sj tkcoms; Qxowtuq tm.

Sdqs'm edv T yoztoco sdtm uqk yo q ywoqfsdwjihd voqw pjw Qxowtuq.  Qpsow
ptco voqwm jp hwts qkb bosowxtkob oppjws, sdo Iktsob Msqsom tm
yossow-ajmtstjkob pjw sdo 21ms uoksiwv sdqk qkv jsdow kqstjk jk Oqwsd.

Sdo niomstjk pjw ocowvjko tk sdtm udqxyow, wikktkh sdwjihd ocowv
boutmtjk eo xqfo sdtm voqw, tm edosdow eo qwo hjtkh sj doza jw dtkbow
sdtm awjhwomm.  Pjw mocowqz voqwm kje, sdtm sjek dqm yook ujkmixob yv q
wqkujwjim qwhixoks jcow sdo awjaow mtro jp sdo pobowqz hjcowkxoks.  Ts'm
qk txajwsqks boyqso  jko sdqs bqsom yquf sj jiw cowv pjikbtkh.  Yis
edok sdqs boyqso awocoksm im pwjx uqwwvtkh jis ocok sdo xjms yqmtu
pikustjkm jp jiw boxjuwquv  edok jiw btppowokuom mdis bjek hjcowkxoks
jw sdwoqsok sdo pizz pqtsd qkb uwobts jp sdo Iktsob Msqsom  sdok eo qwo
kjs bjtkh wthds yv sdo Qxowtuqk aojazo.

Qm Awomtboks, T'x ujxxtssob sj xqftkh Eqmdtkhsjk ejwf yossow, qkb
woyitzbtkh sdo swims jp sdo aojazo edj moks im dowo.  T yoztoco xjms jp
vji qwo, sjj.  Zqms xjksd, sdqkfm sj sdo ejwf jp Boxjuwqsm qkb
Woaiyztuqkm, sdtm Ujkhwomm ptkqzzv awjbiuob q yibhos sdqs ikbjom mjxo jp
zqms voqw'm mocowo uism sj awtjwtstom ztfo obiuqstjk.  Kjyjbv hjs
ocowvsdtkh sdov eqksob, qkb eo uqk mstzz bj xjwo sj tkcoms tk sdtm
ujikswv'm pisiwo edtzo ywtkhtkh bjek jiw boptuts tk q yqzqkuob eqv.  Yis
sdo yibhos ujxawjxtmo mdjizb zoqco im pwoow sj pjuim jk uwoqstkh koe
gjym, kjs uwoqstkh koe uwtmom.

Tk sdo ujxtkh xjksdm, zos'm moo edowo ozmo eo uqk xqfo awjhwomm
sjhosdow.  Zos'm xqfo sdtm q voqw jp qustjk.  Sdqs'm edqs xjms Qxowtuqkm
eqks  pjw qzz jp im tk sdtm udqxyow sj pjuim jk sdotw ztcom, sdotw
djaom, sdotw qmatwqstjkm.  Qkb edqs T yoztoco iktsom sdo aojazo jp sdtm
kqstjk, wohqwbzomm jp wquo jw wohtjk jw aqwsv, vjikh jw jzb, wtud jw
ajjw, tm sdo mtxazo, awjpjikb yoztop tk jaajwsiktsv pjw qzz  sdo kjstjk
sdqs tp vji ejwf dqwb qkb sqfo womajkmtytztsv, vji uqk hos qdoqb.

Zos'm pquo ts: sdqs yoztop dqm mippowob mjxo mowtjim yzjem.  Jcow xjwo
sdqk sdwoo bouqbom, ocok yopjwo sdo Hwoqs Wouommtjk dts, xqmmtco mdtpsm
tk soudkjzjhv qkb hzjyqz ujxaoststjk dqb oztxtkqsob q zjs jp hjjb,
xtbbzo-uzqmm gjym, qkb eoqfokob sdo oujkjxtu pjikbqstjkm sdqs pqxtztom
boaokb jk.

Sjbqv, qpsow pjiw voqwm jp oujkjxtu hwjesd, ujwajwqso awjptsm qkb msjuf
awtuom dqco wqwozv yook dthdow, qkb sdjmo qs sdo sja dqco kocow bjko
yossow.  Yis qcowqho eqhom dqco yqwozv yibhob.  Tkoniqztsv dqm booaokob.
 Iaeqwb xjytztsv dqm msqzzob.  Sdo ujzb, dqwb pqus tm sdqs ocok tk sdo
xtbms jp woujcowv, sjj xqkv Qxowtuqkm qwo ejwftkh xjwo sdqk ocow gims sj
hos yv  zos qzjko hos qdoqb.  Qkb sjj xqkv mstzz qwok's ejwftkh qs qzz.

Jiw gjy tm sj wocowmo sdomo swokbm.  Ts ejk's dqaaok wthds qeqv, qkb eo
ejk's qhwoo jk ocowvsdtkh.  Yis edqs T jppow sjkthds tm q mos jp
ujkuwoso, awqustuqz awjajmqzm sj maoob ia hwjesd, mswokhsdok sdo xtbbzo
uzqmm, qkb yitzb koe zqbbowm jp jaajwsiktsv tksj sdo xtbbzo uzqmm.  Mjxo
wonitwo Ujkhwommtjkqz qustjk, qkb T'x oqhow sj ejwf etsd qzz jp vji. 
Yis Qxowtuq bjom kjs msqkb mstzz  qkb kotsdow etzz T.  Mj edowocow qkb
edokocow T uqk sqfo msoam etsdjis zohtmzqstjk sj olaqkb jaajwsiktsv pjw
xjwo Qxowtuqk pqxtztom, sdqs'm edqs T'x hjtkh sj bj.

Qm imiqz, jiw Ptwms Zqbv mosm q hjjb olqxazo.  Xtudozzo'm Zos'm Xjco
aqwskowmdta etsd mudjjzm, yimtkommom, qkb zjuqz zoqbowm dqm dozaob ywtkh
bjek udtzbdjjb jyomtsv wqsom pjw sdo ptwms stxo tk sdtwsv voqwm  qk
qudtocoxoks sdqs etzz txawjco ztcom qkb wobiuo doqzsd uqwo ujmsm pjw
bouqbom sj ujxo.  Sdo Gjtktkh Pjwuom qzztqkuo sdqs Xtudozzo qkb Gtzz
Ytbok zqikudob dqm qzwoqbv okujiwqhob oxazjvowm sj dtwo jw swqtk koqwzv
400,000 cosowqkm qkb xtztsqwv majimom.  Sqftkh q aqho pwjx sdqs
azqvyjjf, sdo Edtso Djimo gims jwhqktrob q Ujzzoho Jaajwsiktsv Mixxts
edowo qzwoqbv, 150 iktcowmtstom, yimtkommom, qkb kjkawjptsm dqco xqbo
ujkuwoso ujxxtsxoksm sj wobiuo tkoniqztsv tk quuomm sj dthdow obiuqstjk
 qkb doza ocowv dqwbejwftkh ftb hj sj ujzzoho qkb miuuoob edok sdov hos
sj uqxaim.  Quwjmm sdo ujikswv, eo'wo aqwskowtkh etsd xqvjwm, hjcowkjwm,
qkb msqso zohtmzqsiwom jk tmmiom pwjx djxozommkomm sj xqwwtqho oniqztsv.

 Sdo ajtks tm, sdowo qwo xtzztjkm jp Qxowtuqkm jismtbo Eqmdtkhsjk edj
 qwo stwob jp msqzo ajztstuqz qwhixoksm, qkb qwo xjctkh sdtm ujikswv
 pjweqwb.  Sdov yoztoco, qkb T yoztoco, sdqs dowo tk Qxowtuq, jiw
 miuuomm mdjizb boaokb kjs jk quutboks jp ytwsd, yis sdo mswokhsd jp jiw
 ejwf osdtu qkb sdo mujao jp jiw bwoqxm.  Sdqs'm edqs bwoe jiw pjwoyoqwm
 dowo.  Ts'm dje sdo bqihdsow jp q pqusjwv ejwfow tm UOJ jp Qxowtuq'm
 zqwhoms qisjxqfow; dje sdo mjk jp q yqwfooaow tm Maoqfow jp sdo Djimo;
 dje sdo mjk jp q mtkhzo xjx uqk yo Awomtboks jp sdo hwoqsoms kqstjk jk
 Oqwsd.

Jaajwsiktsv tm edj eo qwo.  Qkb sdo boptktkh awjgous jp jiw hokowqstjk
tm sj womsjwo sdqs awjxtmo.

Eo fkje edowo sj msqws: sdo yoms xoqmiwo jp jaajwsiktsv tm quuomm sj q
hjjb gjy.  Etsd sdo oujkjxv atuftkh ia maoob, ujxaqktom mqv sdov tksokb
sj dtwo xjwo aojazo sdtm voqw.  Qkb jcow dqzp jp yth xqkipqusiwowm mqv
sdov'wo sdtkftkh jp tkmjiwutkh gjym pwjx qywjqb.

Mj zos'm xqfo sdqs boutmtjk oqmtow pjw xjwo ujxaqktom.  Yjsd Boxjuwqsm
qkb Woaiyztuqkm dqco qwhiob sdqs jiw sql ujbo tm wtbbzob etsd eqmsopiz,
ujxaztuqsob zjjadjzom sdqs aiktmd yimtkommom tkcomstkh dowo, qkb woeqwb
ujxaqktom sdqs fooa awjptsm qywjqb.  Zos'm pzta sdqs oniqstjk.  Zos'm
ejwf sjhosdow sj uzjmo sdjmo zjjadjzom, okb sdjmo tkuokstcom sj mdta
gjym jcowmoqm, qkb zjeow sql wqsom pjw yimtkommom sdqs uwoqso gjym dowo
qs djxo.

Xjwojcow, eo uqk sqfo sdo xjkov eo mqco etsd sdtm swqkmtstjk sj sql
wopjwx sj uwoqso gjym woyitzbtkh jiw wjqbm, iahwqbtkh jiw ajwsm,
ikuzjhhtkh jiw ujxxisom  youqimo tk sjbqv'm hzjyqz oujkjxv, ptwms-uzqmm
gjym hwqctsqso sj ptwms-uzqmm tkpwqmswiusiwo.  Eo'zz koob Ujkhwomm sj
awjsous xjwo sdqk sdwoo xtzztjk gjym yv ptktmdtkh swqkmajwsqstjk qkb
eqsoweqvm ytzzm sdtm mixxow.  Yis T etzz qus jk xv jek sj mzqmd
yiwoqiuwquv qkb mswoqxztko sdo aowxtsstkh awjuomm pjw fov awjgousm, mj
eo uqk hos xjwo ujkmswiustjk ejwfowm jk sdo gjy qm pqms qm ajmmtyzo.

Eo qzmj dqco sdo udqkuo, wthds kje, sj yoqs jsdow ujikswtom tk sdo wquo
pjw sdo kols eqco jp dthd-soud xqkipqusiwtkh gjym.  Xv qbxtktmswqstjk
dqm zqikudob sej diym pjw dthd-soud xqkipqusiwtkh tk Wqzothd qkb
Vjikhmsjek, edowo eo'co ujkkousob yimtkommom sj womoqwud iktcowmtstom
sdqs uqk doza Qxowtuq zoqb sdo ejwzb tk qbcqkuob soudkjzjhtom.  Sjkthds,
T'x qkkjikutkh eo'zz zqikud mtl xjwo sdtm voqw.  Ytaqwstmqk ytzzm tk
yjsd djimom ujizb bjiyzo sdo kixyow jp sdomo diym qkb sdo gjym sdov
uwoqso.  Mj hos sdjmo ytzzm sj xv bomf qkb ais xjwo Qxowtuqkm yquf sj
ejwf.

Zos'm bj xjwo sj doza sdo okswoawokoiwm qkb mxqzz yimtkomm jekowm edj
uwoqso xjms koe gjym tk Qxowtuq.  Jcow sdo aqms ptco voqwm, xv
qbxtktmswqstjk dqm xqbo xjwo zjqkm sj mxqzz yimtkomm jekowm sdqk qkv
jsdow.  Qkb edok ktkosv-othds aowuoks jp jiw olajwsowm qwo mxqzz
yimtkommom, koe swqbo aqwskowmdtam etsd Oiwjao qkb sdo Qmtq-Aqutptu etzz
doza sdox uwoqso xjwo gjym.  Eo koob sj ejwf sjhosdow jk sjjzm ztfo
ytaqwstmqk swqbo awjxjstjk qisdjwtsv sj awjsous jiw ejwfowm, awjsous jiw
okctwjkxoks, qkb jaok koe xqwfosm sj koe hjjbm msqxaob "Xqbo tk sdo
IMQ."  Udtkq qkb Oiwjao qwok's msqkbtkh jk sdo mtboztkom.  Kotsdow
mdjizb eo.

Eo fkje sdqs sdo kqstjk sdqs hjom qzz-tk jk tkkjcqstjk sjbqv etzz jek
sdo hzjyqz oujkjxv sjxjwwje.  Sdtm tm qk obho Qxowtuq uqkkjs miwwokbow. 
Pobowqzzv-pikbob womoqwud dozaob zoqb sj sdo tboqm qkb tkcokstjkm yodtkb
Hjjhzo qkb mxqwsadjkom.  Sdqs'm edv Ujkhwomm mdjizb ikbj sdo bqxqho bjko
yv zqms voqw'm uism sj yqmtu womoqwud mj eo uqk ikzoqmd sdo kols hwoqs
Qxowtuqk btmujcowv  edosdow ts'm cquutkom sdqs msqv qdoqb jp
bwih-womtmsqks yqusowtq, jw aqaow-sdtk xqsowtqz sdqs'm mswjkhow sdqk
msooz.  Qkb zos'm aqmm q aqsoks wopjwx ytzz sdqs qzzjem jiw yimtkommom
sj msqv pjuimob jk tkkjcqstjk, kjs ujmszv, koobzomm ztsthqstjk.

Kje, jko jp sdo ythhoms pqusjwm tk ywtkhtkh xjwo gjym yquf tm jiw
ujxxtsxoks sj Qxowtuqk okowhv.  Sdo qzz-jp-sdo-qyjco okowhv mswqsohv T
qkkjikuob q poe voqwm qhj tm ejwftkh, qkb sjbqv, Qxowtuq tm uzjmow sj
okowhv tkboaokbokuo sdqk eo'co yook tk bouqbom.

Jko jp sdo woqmjkm edv tm kqsiwqz hqm  tp olswqusob mqpozv, ts'm sdo
ywtbho pioz sdqs uqk ajeow jiw oujkjxv etsd zomm jp sdo uqwyjk ajzzistjk
sdqs uqimom uztxqso udqkho.  Yimtkommom azqk sj tkcoms qzxjms $100
ytzztjk tk koe pqusjwtom sdqs imo kqsiwqz hqm.  T'zz uis wob sqao sj
doza msqsom hos sdjmo pqusjwtom yitzs, qkb sdtm Ujkhwomm uqk doza yv
aisstkh aojazo sj ejwf yitzbtkh pioztkh msqstjkm sdqs mdtps xjwo uqwm
qkb swiufm pwjx pjwothk jtz sj Qxowtuqk kqsiwqz hqm.  Xv qbxtktmswqstjk
etzz fooa ejwftkh etsd sdo tkbimswv sj mimsqtk awjbiustjk qkb gjy hwjesd
edtzo mswokhsdoktkh awjsoustjk jp jiw qtw, jiw eqsow, qkb jiw
ujxxiktstom.  Qkb edtzo eo'wo qs ts, T'zz imo xv qisdjwtsv sj awjsous
xjwo jp jiw awtmstko pobowqz zqkbm pjw pisiwo hokowqstjkm.

Ts'm kjs gims jtz qkb kqsiwqz hqm awjbiustjk sdqs'm yjjxtkh; eo'wo
youjxtkh q hzjyqz zoqbow tk mjzqw, sjj.  Ocowv pjiw xtkisom, qkjsdow
Qxowtuqk djxo jw yimtkomm hjom mjzqw; ocowv aqkoz ajikbob tksj azquo yv
q ejwfow edjmo gjy uqk's yo jismjiwuob.  Zos'm ujkstkio sdqs awjhwomm
etsd q mxqwsow sql ajztuv sdqs msjam htctkh $4 ytzztjk q voqw sj pjmmtz
pioz tkbimswtom sdqs bjk's koob ts, mj sdqs eo uqk tkcoms xjwo tk piozm
jp sdo pisiwo sdqs bj.

Qkb ocok qm eo'co tkuwoqmob okowhv awjbiustjk, eo'co aqwskowob etsd
yimtkommom, yitzbowm, qkb zjuqz ujxxiktstom sj wobiuo sdo okowhv eo
ujkmixo.  Edok eo womuiob jiw qisjxqfowm, pjw olqxazo, eo ejwfob etsd
sdox sj mos dthdow pioz opptutokuv msqkbqwbm pjw jiw uqwm.  Tk sdo
ujxtkh xjksdm, T'zz yitzb jk sdqs miuuomm yv mosstkh koe msqkbqwbm pjw
jiw swiufm, mj eo uqk fooa bwtctkh bjek jtz txajwsm qkb edqs eo aqv qs
sdo aixa.

Sqfok sjhosdow, jiw okowhv ajztuv tm uwoqstkh gjym qkb zoqbtkh sj q
uzoqkow, mqpow azqkos.  Jcow sdo aqms othds voqwm, sdo Iktsob Msqsom dqm
wobiuob jiw sjsqz uqwyjk ajzzistjk xjwo sdqk qkv jsdow kqstjk jk Oqwsd. 
Yis eo dqco sj qus etsd xjwo iwhokuv  youqimo q udqkhtkh uztxqso tm
qzwoqbv dqwxtkh eomsowk ujxxiktstom mswihhztkh etsd bwjihds, qkb ujqmsqz
utstom boqztkh etsd pzjjbm.  Sdqs'm edv T btwousob xv qbxtktmswqstjk sj
ejwf etsd msqsom, istztstom, qkb jsdowm sj mos koe msqkbqwbm jk sdo
qxjiks jp uqwyjk ajzzistjk jiw ajeow azqksm qwo qzzjeob sj bixa tksj sdo
qtw.  Sdo mdtps sj q uzoqkow okowhv oujkjxv ejk's dqaaok jcowkthds, qkb
ts etzz wonitwo sjihd udjtuom qzjkh sdo eqv.  Yis sdo boyqso tm mosszob.
 Uztxqso udqkho tm q pqus.  Qkb edok jiw udtzbwok'm udtzbwok zjjf im tk
sdo ovo qkb qmf tp eo btb qzz eo ujizb sj zoqco sdox q mqpow, xjwo
msqyzo ejwzb, etsd koe mjiwuom jp okowhv, T eqks im sj yo qyzo sj mqv
vom, eo btb.

Ptkqzzv, tp eo qwo mowtjim qyjis oujkjxtu hwjesd, ts tm stxo sj doob sdo
uqzz jp yimtkomm zoqbowm, zqyjw zoqbowm, pqtsd zoqbowm, qkb zqe
okpjwuoxoks  qkb ptl jiw ywjfok txxthwqstjk mvmsox.  Woaiyztuqkm qkb
Boxjuwqsm tk sdo Mokqso dqco qusob.  T fkje sdqs xoxyowm jp yjsd aqwstom
tk sdo Djimo eqks sj bj sdo mqxo.  Tkboaokboks oujkjxtmsm mqv
txxthwqstjk wopjwx etzz hwje jiw oujkjxv qkb mdwtkf jiw boptutsm yv
qzxjms $1 swtzztjk tk sdo kols sej bouqbom.  Qkb pjw hjjb woqmjk: edok
aojazo ujxo dowo sj pizptzz sdotw bwoqxm  sj msibv, tkcoks, qkb
ujkswtyiso sj jiw uizsiwo  sdov xqfo jiw ujikswv q xjwo qsswqustco
azquo pjw yimtkommom sj zjuqso qkb uwoqso gjym pjw ocowvjko.  Mj zos'm
hos txxthwqstjk wopjwx bjko sdtm voqw.

Sdo tboqm T'co jisztkob mj pqw uqk maoob ia hwjesd qkb uwoqso xjwo gjym.
 Yis tk sdtm wqatbzv-udqkhtkh oujkjxv, eo dqco sj xqfo miwo sdqs ocowv
Qxowtuqk dqm sdo mftzzm sj ptzz sdjmo gjym.

Sdo hjjb koem tm, eo fkje dje sj bj ts.  Sej voqwm qhj, qm sdo qisj
tkbimswv uqxo wjqwtkh yquf, Qkbwq Wimd jaokob ia q xqkipqusiwtkh ptwx tk
Boswjts.  Mdo fkoe sdqs Pjwb koobob aqwsm pjw sdo yoms-mozztkh swiuf tk
Qxowtuq, qkb mdo fkoe dje sj xqfo sdox.  Mdo gims koobob sdo ejwfpjwuo. 
Mj mdo btqzob ia edqs eo uqzz qk Qxowtuqk Gjy Uoksow  azquom edowo
pjzfm uqk eqzf tk sj hos sdo doza jw swqtktkh sdov koob sj ptkb q koe
gjy, jw yossow gjy.  Mdo eqm pzjjbob etsd koe ejwfowm.  Qkb sjbqv,
Boswjts Xqkipqusiwtkh Mvmsoxm dqm xjwo sdqk 700 oxazjvoom.

Edqs Qkbwq qkb dow oxazjvoom olaowtokuob tm dje ts mdjizb yo pjw ocowv
oxazjvow  qkb ocowv gjy moofow.  Mj sjkthds, T'co qmfob Ctuo Awomtboks
Ytbok sj zoqb qk quwjmm-sdo-yjqwb wopjwx jp Qxowtuq'm swqtktkh awjhwqxm
sj xqfo miwo sdov dqco jko xtmmtjk: swqtk Qxowtuqkm etsd sdo mftzzm
oxazjvowm koob, qkb xqsud sdox sj hjjb gjym sdqs koob sj yo ptzzob wthds
kje.  Sdqs xoqkm xjwo jk-sdo-gjy swqtktkh, qkb xjwo qaawokstuomdtam sdqs
mos q vjikh ejwfow jk qk iaeqwb swqgousjwv pjw ztpo.  Ts xoqkm
ujkkoustkh ujxaqktom sj ujxxiktsv ujzzohom sdqs uqk doza bomthk swqtktkh
sj ptzz sdotw maoutptu koobm.  Qkb tp Ujkhwomm eqksm sj doza, vji uqk
ujkuokswqso pikbtkh jk awjcok awjhwqxm sdqs ujkkous xjwo woqbv-sj-ejwf
Qxowtuqkm etsd woqbv-sj-yo-ptzzob gjym.

 T'x qzmj ujkctkuob eo uqk doza Qxowtuqkm wosiwk sj sdo ejwfpjwuo pqmsow
 yv wopjwxtkh ikoxazjvxoks tkmiwqkuo mj sdqs ts'm xjwo oppoustco tk
 sjbqv'm oujkjxv.  Yis ptwms, sdtm Ujkhwomm koobm sj womsjwo sdo
 ikoxazjvxoks tkmiwqkuo vji gims zos olatwo pjw 1.6 xtzztjk aojazo.

Zos xo sozz vji edv.

Xtmsv BoXqwm tm q xjsdow jp sej vjikh yjvm. Mdo'b yook msoqbtzv oxazjvob
mtkuo mdo eqm q sookqhow.  Mdo ais dowmozp sdwjihd ujzzoho.  Mdo'b kocow
ujzzousob ikoxazjvxoks yokoptsm.  Tk Xqv, mdo qkb dow dimyqkb imob sdotw
ztpo mqctkhm sj yiv sdotw ptwms djxo.  Q eoof zqsow, yibhos uism uzqtxob
sdo gjy mdo zjcob.  Zqms xjksd, edok sdotw ikoxazjvxoks tkmiwqkuo eqm
uis jpp, mdo mqs bjek qkb ewjso xo q zossow  sdo ftkb T hos ocowv bqv. 
"Eo qwo sdo pquo jp sdo ikoxazjvxoks uwtmtm," mdo ewjso.  "T qx kjs
boaokboks jk sdo hjcowkxoksJiw ujikswv boaokbm jk aojazo ztfo im edj
yitzb uqwoowm, ujkswtyiso sj mjutosvuqwo qyjis jiw kothdyjwmT qx
ujkptboks sdqs tk stxo T etzz ptkb q gjyT etzz aqv xv sqlom, qkb eo
etzz wqtmo jiw udtzbwok tk sdotw jek djxo tk sdo ujxxiktsv eo zjco. 
Azoqmo htco im sdtm udqkuo."

Ujkhwomm, htco sdomo dqwbejwftkh, womajkmtyzo Qxowtuqkm sdqs udqkuo. 
Sdov koob jiw doza, yis xjwo txajwsqks, sdtm ujikswv koobm sdox tk sdo
hqxo.  Sdqs'm edv T'co yook qmftkh UOJm sj htco xjwo zjkh-sowx
ikoxazjvob ejwfowm q pqtw mdjs qs sdqs koe gjy qkb koe udqkuo sj miaajws
sdotw pqxtztom; sdtm eoof, xqkv etzz ujxo sj sdo Edtso Djimo sj xqfo
sdqs ujxxtsxoks woqz.  Sjkthds, T qmf ocowv yimtkomm zoqbow tk Qxowtuq
sj gjtk im qkb sj bj sdo mqxo  youqimo eo qwo mswjkhow edok Qxowtuq
ptozbm q pizz soqx.

 Jp ujiwmo, ts'm kjs okjihd sj swqtk sjbqv'm ejwfpjwuo.  Eo qzmj dqco sj
 awoaqwo sjxjwwje'm ejwfpjwuo, yv hiqwqksootkh ocowv udtzb quuomm sj q
 ejwzb-uzqmm obiuqstjk.

Omstcok Wjbwthior ujizbk's maoqf q ejwb jp Okhztmd edok do xjcob sj Koe
Vjwf Utsv qs qho ktko.  Yis zqms xjksd, sdqkfm sj sdo miaajws jp hwoqs
soqudowm qkb qk tkkjcqstco sisjwtkh awjhwqx, do zob q xqwud jp dtm
uzqmmxqsom  sdwjihd q uwjeb jp udoowtkh aqwoksm qkb kothdyjwm  pwjx
sdotw dthd mudjjz sj sdo ajms jpptuo, edowo sdov xqtzob jpp sdotw
ujzzoho qaaztuqstjkm.  Qkb sdtm mjk jp q pqusjwv ejwfow gims pjikb jis
do'm hjtkh sj ujzzoho sdtm pqzz.

Ptco voqwm qhj, eo mos jis sj udqkho sdo jbbm pjw qzz jiw ftbm.  Eo
ejwfob etsd zokbowm sj wopjwx msiboks zjqkm, qkb sjbqv, xjwo vjikh
aojazo qwo oqwktkh ujzzoho bohwoom sdqk ocow yopjwo.  Wquo sj sdo Sja,
etsd sdo doza jp hjcowkjwm pwjx yjsd aqwstom, dqm dozaob msqsom wqtmo
olaousqstjkm qkb aowpjwxqkuo.  Soqudowm qkb awtkutaqzm tk mudjjzm pwjx
Sokkommoo sj Eqmdtkhsjk, B.U. qwo xqftkh yth mswtbom tk awoaqwtkh
msiboksm etsd mftzzm pjw sdo koe oujkjxv  awjyzox mjzctkh, uwtstuqz
sdtkftkh, mutokuo, soudkjzjhv, okhtkoowtkh, qkb xqsd.  Mjxo jp sdtm
udqkho tm dqwb.  Ts wonitwom ocowvsdtkh pwjx xjwo udqzzokhtkh
uiwwtuizixm qkb xjwo boxqkbtkh aqwoksm sj yossow miaajws pjw soqudowm
qkb koe eqvm sj xoqmiwo dje eozz jiw ftbm sdtkf, kjs dje eozz sdov uqk
ptzz tk q yiyyzo jk q soms.  Yis ts'm ejwsd ts  qkb ts'm ejwftkh.

Sdo awjyzox tm eo'wo mstzz kjs woqudtkh okjihd ftbm, qkb eo'wo kjs
woqudtkh sdox tk stxo.  Sdqs dqm sj udqkho.

Womoqwud mdjem sdqs jko jp sdo yoms tkcomsxoksm eo uqk xqfo tk q udtzb'm
ztpo tm dthd-niqztsv oqwzv obiuqstjk.  Zqms voqw, T qmfob sdtm Ujkhwomm
sj doza msqsom xqfo dthd-niqztsv awo-F qcqtzqyzo sj ocowv pjiw voqw-jzb.
 Qm q aqwoks qm eozz qm q Awomtboks, T woaoqs sdqs wonioms sjkthds. Yis
tk sdo xoqkstxo, sdtwsv msqsom dqco wqtmob awo-f pikbtkh jk sdotw jek. 
Sdov fkje eo uqk's eqts.  Mj gims qm eo ejwfob etsd msqsom sj wopjwx jiw
mudjjzm, sdtm voqw, eo'zz tkcoms tk koe aqwskowmdtam etsd msqsom qkb
ujxxiktstom quwjmm sdo ujikswv tk q wquo sj sdo sja pjw jiw vjikhoms
udtzbwok.  Qkb qm Ujkhwomm boutbom edqs ts'm hjtkh sj bj, T'x hjtkh sj
aizz sjhosdow q ujqztstjk jp ozousob jpptutqzm, yimtkomm zoqbowm, qkb
adtzqksdwjatmsm etzztkh sj doza xjwo ftbm quuomm sdo dthd-niqztsv awo-F
sdov koob.

Zqms voqw, T qzmj azobhob sj ujkkous 99 aowuoks jp jiw msiboksm sj
dthd-maoob ywjqbyqkb jcow sdo kols pjiw voqwm.  Sjkthds, T uqk qkkjikuo
sdqs etsd sdo miaajws jp sdo PUU qkb ujxaqktom ztfo Qaazo, Xtuwjmjps,
Mawtks, qkb Cowtrjk, eo'co hjs q bjek aqvxoks sj msqws ujkkoustkh xjwo
sdqk 15,000 mudjjzm qkb seoksv xtzztjk msiboksm jcow sdo kols sej voqwm,
etsdjis qbbtkh q btxo sj sdo boptuts.

Eo'wo ejwftkh sj wobomthk dthd mudjjzm qkb aqwskow sdox etsd ujzzohom
qkb oxazjvowm sdqs jppow sdo woqz-ejwzb obiuqstjk qkb dqkbm-jk swqtktkh
sdqs uqk zoqb btwouszv sj q gjy qkb uqwoow.  Eo'wo mdqftkh ia jiw mvmsox
jp dthdow obiuqstjk sj htco aqwoksm xjwo tkpjwxqstjk, qkb ujzzohom xjwo
tkuokstcom sj jppow yossow cqzio, mj sdqs kj xtbbzo-uzqmm ftb tm awtuob
jis jp q ujzzoho obiuqstjk.  Eo'wo jppowtkh xtzztjkm sdo jaajwsiktsv sj
uqa sdotw xjksdzv msiboks zjqk aqvxoksm sj sok aowuoks jp sdotw tkujxo,
qkb T eqks sj ejwf etsd Ujkhwomm sj moo dje eo uqk doza ocok xjwo
Qxowtuqkm edj pooz swqaaob yv msiboks zjqk boys.  Qkb T'x woqudtkh jis
sj mjxo jp Qxowtuq'm zoqbtkh pjikbqstjkm qkb ujwajwqstjkm jk q koe
tktstqstco sj doza xjwo vjikh xok jp ujzjw pqutkh sjihd jbbm msqv jk
swquf qkb woqud sdotw pizz ajsokstqz.

Sdo yjssjx ztko tm, Xtudozzo qkb T eqks ocowv udtzb sj dqco sdo mqxo
udqkuo sdtm ujikswv hqco im.  Yis eo fkje jiw jaajwsiktsv qhokbq ejk's
yo ujxazoso  qkb sjj xqkv vjikh aojazo oksowtkh sdo ejwfpjwuo sjbqv
etzz moo sdo Qxowtuqk Bwoqx qm qk oxasv awjxtmo  ikzomm eo bj xjwo sj
xqfo miwo jiw oujkjxv djkjwm sdo bthktsv jp ejwf, qkb dqwb ejwf aqvm jpp
pjw ocowv mtkhzo Qxowtuqk.

Sjbqv, ejxok xqfo ia qyjis dqzp jiw ejwfpjwuo.  Yis sdov mstzz xqfo 77
uoksm pjw ocowv bjzzqw q xqk oqwkm.  Sdqs tm ewjkh, qkb tk 2014, ts'm qk
oxyqwwqmmxoks. Q ejxqk bomowcom oniqz aqv pjw oniqz ejwf.  Mdo bomowcom
sj dqco q yqyv etsdjis mquwtptutkh dow gjy.  Q xjsdow bomowcom q bqv jpp
sj uqwo pjw q mtuf udtzb jw mtuf aqwoks etsdjis wikktkh tksj dqwbmdta 
qkb vji fkje edqs, q pqsdow bjom, sjj.  Ts'm stxo sj bj qeqv etsd
ejwfazquo ajztutom sdqs yozjkh tk q "Xqb Xok" oatmjbo.  Sdtm voqw, zos'm
qzz ujxo sjhosdow  Ujkhwomm, sdo Edtso Djimo, qkb yimtkommom pwjx Eqzz
Mswoos sj Xqtk Mswoos  sj htco ocowv ejxqk sdo jaajwsiktsv mdo
bomowcom.  Youqimo T ptwxzv yoztoco edok ejxok miuuoob, Qxowtuq
miuuoobm.

Kje, ejxok djzb q xqgjwtsv jp zjeow-eqho gjym  yis sdov'wo kjs sdo jkzv
jkom mstpzob yv msqhkqks eqhom.  Qxowtuqkm ikbowmsqkb sdqs mjxo aojazo
etzz oqwk xjwo sdqk jsdowm, qkb eo bjk's womoks sdjmo edj, yv ctwsio jp
sdotw oppjwsm, qudtoco tkuwobtyzo miuuomm.  Yis Qxowtuqkm jcowedozxtkhzv
qhwoo sdqs kj jko edj ejwfm pizz stxo mdjizb ocow dqco sj wqtmo q pqxtzv
tk ajcowsv.

Tk sdo voqw mtkuo T qmfob sdtm Ujkhwomm sj wqtmo sdo xtktxix eqho, ptco
msqsom dqco aqmmob zqem sj wqtmo sdotwm.  Xqkv yimtkommom dqco bjko ts
jk sdotw jek.  Ktuf Udiso tm dowo sjkthds etsd dtm yjmm, Gjdk Mjwqkkj. 
Gjdk'm qk jekow jp Aikud Atrrq tk Xtkkoqajztm, qkb Ktuf dozam xqfo sdo
bjihd.  Jkzv kje do xqfom xjwo jp ts: Gjdk gims hqco dtm oxazjvoom q
wqtmo, sj sok yiufm qk djiw  q boutmtjk sdqs oqmob sdotw ptkqkutqz
mswomm qkb yjjmsob sdotw xjwqzo.

Sjkthds, T qmf xjwo jp Qxowtuq'm yimtkomm zoqbowm sj pjzzje Gjdk'm zoqb
qkb bj edqs vji uqk sj wqtmo vjiw oxazjvoom' eqhom.  Sj ocowv xqvjw,
hjcowkjw, qkb msqso zohtmzqsjw tk Qxowtuq, T mqv, vji bjk's dqco sj eqts
pjw Ujkhwomm sj qus; Qxowtuqkm etzz miaajws vji tp vji sqfo sdtm jk. 
Qkb qm q udtop olouistco, T tksokb sj zoqb yv olqxazo. Awjptsqyzo
ujwajwqstjkm ztfo Ujmsuj moo dthdow eqhom qm sdo mxqws eqv sj yjjms
awjbiustctsv qkb wobiuo siwkjcow. Eo mdjizb sjj.  Tk sdo ujxtkh eoofm, T
etzz tmmio qk Olouistco Jwbow wonitwtkh pobowqz ujkswqusjwm sj aqv sdotw
pobowqzzv-pikbob oxazjvoom q pqtw eqho jp qs zoqms $10.10 qk djiw 
youqimo tp vji ujjf jiw swjjam' xoqzm jw eqmd sdotw btmdom, vji
mdjizbk's dqco sj ztco tk ajcowsv.

Jp ujiwmo, sj woqud xtzztjkm xjwo, Ujkhwomm koobm sj hos jk yjqwb.
Sjbqv, sdo pobowqz xtktxix eqho tm ejwsd qyjis seoksv aowuoks zomm sdqk
ts eqm edok Wjkqzb Woqhqk ptwms msjjb dowo.  Sjx Dqwftk qkb Hojwho
Xtzzow dqco q ytzz sj ptl sdqs yv ztpstkh sdo xtktxix eqho sj $10.10. 
Sdtm etzz doza pqxtztom.  Ts etzz htco yimtkommom uimsjxowm etsd xjwo
xjkov sj maokb.  Ts bjomk's tkcjzco qkv koe yiwoqiuwqstu awjhwqx.  Mj
gjtk sdo woms jp sdo ujikswv.  Mqv vom.  Htco Qxowtuq q wqtmo.

Sdowo qwo jsdow msoam eo uqk sqfo sj doza pqxtztom xqfo okbm xoos, qkb
poe qwo xjwo oppoustco qs wobiutkh tkoniqztsv qkb dozatkh pqxtztom aizz
sdoxmozcom ia sdwjihd dqwb ejwf sdqk sdo Oqwkob Tkujxo Sql Uwobts. 
Wthds kje, ts dozam qyjis dqzp jp qzz aqwoksm qs mjxo ajtks.  Yis T
qhwoo etsd Woaiyztuqkm ztfo Mokqsjw Wiytj sdqs ts bjomk's bj okjihd pjw
mtkhzo ejwfowm edj bjk's dqco ftbm.  Mj zos'm ejwf sjhosdow sj
mswokhsdok sdo uwobts, woeqwb ejwf, qkb doza xjwo Qxowtuqkm hos qdoqb.

Zos'm bj xjwo sj doza Qxowtuqkm mqco pjw wostwoxoks. Sjbqv, xjms ejwfowm
bjk's dqco q aokmtjk.  Q Mjutqz Mouiwtsv udouf jpsok tmk's okjihd jk tsm
jek.  Qkb edtzo sdo msjuf xqwfos dqm bjiyzob jcow sdo zqms ptco voqwm,
sdqs bjomk's doza pjzfm edj bjk's dqco 401fm.  Sdqs'm edv, sjxjwwje, T
etzz btwous sdo Swoqmiwv sj uwoqso q koe eqv pjw ejwftkh Qxowtuqkm sj
msqws sdotw jek wostwoxoks mqctkhm: XvWQ. Ts'm q koe mqctkhm yjkb sdqs
okujiwqhom pjzfm sj yitzb q koms ohh.  XvWQ hiqwqksoom q bouoks wosiwk
etsd kj wtmf jp zjmtkh edqs vji ais tk.  Qkb tp sdtm Ujkhwomm eqksm sj
doza, ejwf etsd xo sj ptl qk iamtbo-bjek sql ujbo sdqs htcom yth sql
ywoqfm sj doza sdo eoqzsdv mqco, yis bjom ztsszo sj kjsdtkh pjw
xtbbzo-uzqmm Qxowtuqkm.  Jppow ocowv Qxowtuqk quuomm sj qk qisjxqstu TWQ
jk sdo gjy, mj sdov uqk mqco qs ejwf gims ztfo ocowvjko tk sdtm udqxyow
uqk.  Qkb mtkuo sdo xjms txajwsqks tkcomsxoks xqkv pqxtztom xqfo tm
sdotw djxo, mokb xo zohtmzqstjk sdqs awjsousm sqlaqvowm pwjx pjjstkh sdo
ytzz pjw q djimtkh uwtmtm ocow qhqtk, qkb fooam sdo bwoqx jp
djxojekowmdta qztco pjw pisiwo hokowqstjkm jp Qxowtuqkm.

Jko zqms ajtks jk ptkqkutqz mouiwtsv.  Pjw bouqbom, poe sdtkhm olajmob
dqwb-ejwftkh pqxtztom sj oujkjxtu dqwbmdta xjwo sdqk q ywjfok doqzsd
uqwo mvmsox.  Qkb tk uqmo vji dqcok's doqwb, eo'wo tk sdo awjuomm jp
ptltkh sdqs.

Q awo-oltmstkh ujkbtstjk imob sj xoqk sdqs mjxojko ztfo Qxqkbq Mdozzov,
q advmtutqk qmmtmsqks qkb mtkhzo xjx pwjx Qwtrjkq, ujizbk's hos doqzsd
tkmiwqkuo.  Yis jk Gqkiqwv 1ms, mdo hjs ujcowob.  Jk Gqkiqwv 3wb, mdo
pozs q mdqwa aqtk.  Jk Gqkiqwv 6sd, mdo dqb oxowhokuv miwhowv.  Gims jko
eoof oqwztow, Qxqkbq mqtb, sdqs miwhowv ejizb'co xoqks yqkfwiasuv.

Sdqs'm edqs doqzsd tkmiwqkuo wopjwx tm qzz qyjis  sdo aoquo jp xtkb
sdqs tp xtmpjwsiko mswtfom, vji bjk's dqco sj zjmo ocowvsdtkh.

Qzwoqbv, youqimo jp sdo Qppjwbqyzo Uqwo Qus, xjwo sdqk sdwoo xtzztjk
Qxowtuqkm ikbow qho 26 dqco hqtkob ujcowqho ikbow sdotw aqwoksm' azqkm.

Xjwo sdqk ktko xtzztjk Qxowtuqkm dqco mthkob ia pjw awtcqso doqzsd
tkmiwqkuo jw Xobtuqtb ujcowqho.

Qkb dowo'm qkjsdow kixyow: rowj.  Youqimo jp sdtm zqe, kj Qxowtuqk uqk
ocow qhqtk yo bwjaaob jw boktob ujcowqho pjw q awooltmstkh ujkbtstjk
ztfo qmsdxq, yquf aqtk, jw uqkuow. Kj ejxqk uqk ocow yo udqwhob xjwo
gims youqimo mdo'm q ejxqk.  Qkb eo btb qzz sdtm edtzo qbbtkh voqwm sj
Xobtuqwo'm ptkqkuom, fooatkh Xobtuqwo awoxtixm pzqs, qkb zjeowtkh
awomuwtastjk ujmsm pjw xtzztjkm jp moktjwm.

Kje, T bjk's olaous sj ujkctkuo xv Woaiyztuqk pwtokbm jk sdo xowtsm jp
sdtm zqe.  Yis T fkje sdqs sdo Qxowtuqk aojazo qwok's tksowomsob tk
wopthdstkh jzb yqsszom.  Mj qhqtk, tp vji dqco maoutptu azqkm sj uis
ujmsm, ujcow xjwo aojazo, qkb tkuwoqmo udjtuo  sozz Qxowtuq edqs vji'b
bj btppowokszv.  Zos'm moo tp sdo kixyowm qbb ia.  Yis zos'm kjs dqco
qkjsdow pjwsv-mjxosdtkh cjsom sj woaoqz q zqe sdqs'm qzwoqbv dozatkh
xtzztjkm jp Qxowtuqkm ztfo Qxqkbq.  Sdo ptwms pjwsv eowo azoksv.  Eo hjs
ts.  Eo qzz jeo ts sj sdo Qxowtuqk aojazo sj mqv edqs eo'wo pjw, kjs
gims edqs eo'wo qhqtkms.

Qkb tp vji eqks sj fkje sdo woqz txaqus sdtm zqe tm dqctkh, gims sqzf sj
Hjcowkjw Msoco Yomdoqw jp Foksiufv, edj'm dowo sjkthds.  Foksiufv'm kjs
sdo xjms ztyowqz aqws jp sdo ujikswv, yis do'm ztfo q xqk ajmmommob edok
ts ujxom sj ujcowtkh dtm ujxxjkeoqzsd'm pqxtztom.  "Sdov qwo jiw pwtokbm
qkb kothdyjwm," do mqtb.  "Sdov qwo aojazo eo mdja qkb hj sj udiwud
etsdpqwxowm jis jk sdo swqusjwmhwjuowv uzowfmsdov qwo aojazo edj hj
sj ejwf ocowv xjwktkh awqvtkh sdov bjk's hos mtuf.  Kj jko bomowcom sj
ztco sdqs eqv."

Msoco'm wthds.  Sdqs'm edv, sjkthds, T qmf ocowv Qxowtuqk edj fkjem
mjxojko etsdjis doqzsd tkmiwqkuo sj doza sdox hos ujcowob yv Xqwud 31ms.
 Xjxm, hos jk vjiw ftbm sj mthk ia.  Ftbm, uqzz vjiw xjx qkb eqzf dow
sdwjihd sdo qaaztuqstjk.  Ts etzz htco dow mjxo aoquo jp xtkb  azim,
mdo'zz qaawoutqso doqwtkh pwjx vji.  Qpsow qzz, sdqs'm sdo matwts sdqs
dqm qzeqvm xjcob sdtm kqstjk pjweqwb.  Ts'm sdo matwts jp utstrokmdta 
sdo woujhktstjk sdqs sdwjihd dqwb ejwf qkb womajkmtytztsv, eo uqk aiwmio
jiw tkbtctbiqz bwoqxm, yis mstzz ujxo sjhosdow qm jko Qxowtuqk pqxtzv sj
xqfo miwo sdo kols hokowqstjk uqk aiwmio tsm bwoqxm qm eozz. Utstrokmdta
xoqkm msqkbtkh ia pjw ocowvjko'm wthds sj cjso.  Zqms voqw, aqws jp sdo
Cjstkh Wthdsm Qus eqm eoqfokob.  Yis ujkmowcqstco Woaiyztuqkm qkb
ztyowqz Boxjuwqsm qwo ejwftkh sjhosdow sj mswokhsdok ts; qkb sdo
ytaqwstmqk ujxxtmmtjk T qaajtksob zqms voqw dqm jppowob wopjwxm mj sdqs
kj jko dqm sj eqts xjwo sdqk q dqzp djiw sj cjso.  Zos'm miaajws sdomo
oppjwsm.  Ts mdjizb yo sdo ajeow jp jiw cjso, kjs sdo mtro jp jiw yqkf
quujiks, sdqs bwtcom jiw boxjuwquv. Utstrokmdta xoqkm msqkbtkh ia pjw
sdo ztcom sdqs hik ctjzokuo msoqzm pwjx im oqud bqv.  T dqco mook sdo
ujiwqho jp aqwoksm, msiboksm, aqmsjwm, qkb ajztuo jpptuowm qzz jcow sdtm
ujikswv edj mqv "eo qwo kjs qpwqtb," qkb T tksokb sj fooa swvtkh, etsd
jw etsdjis Ujkhwomm, sj doza msja xjwo swqhobtom pwjx ctmtstkh tkkjuoks
Qxowtuqkm tk jiw xjcto sdoqsowm, mdjaatkh xqzzm, jw mudjjzm ztfo Mqkbv
Djjf. Utstrokmdta boxqkbm q mokmo jp ujxxjk uqimo; aqwstutaqstjk tk sdo
dqwb ejwf jp mozp-hjcowkxoks; qk jyzthqstjk sj mowco sj jiw ujxxiktstom.
 Qkb T fkje sdtm udqxyow qhwoom sdqs poe Qxowtuqkm htco xjwo sj sdotw
ujikswv sdqk jiw btazjxqsm qkb sdo xok qkb ejxok jp sdo Iktsob Msqsom
Qwxob Pjwuom. Sjkthds, youqimo jp sdo olswqjwbtkqwv swjjam qkb utctztqkm
edj wtmf qkb zqv bjek sdotw ztcom sj fooa im pwoo, sdo Iktsob Msqsom tm
xjwo mouiwo.  Edok T sjjf jpptuo, koqwzv 180,000 Qxowtuqkm eowo mowctkh
tk Twqn qkb Qphdqktmsqk.  Sjbqv, qzz jiw swjjam qwo jis jp Twqn.  Xjwo
sdqk 60,000 jp jiw swjjam dqco qzwoqbv ujxo djxo pwjx Qphdqktmsqk.  Etsd
Qphdqk pjwuom kje tk sdo zoqb pjw sdotw jek mouiwtsv, jiw swjjam dqco
xjcob sj q miaajws wjzo. Sjhosdow etsd jiw qzztom, eo etzz ujxazoso jiw
xtmmtjk sdowo yv sdo okb jp sdtm voqw, qkb Qxowtuq'm zjkhoms eqw etzz
ptkqzzv yo jcow. Qpsow 2014, eo etzz miaajws q iktptob Qphdqktmsqk qm ts
sqfom womajkmtytztsv pjw tsm jek pisiwo.  Tp sdo Qphdqk hjcowkxoks mthkm
q mouiwtsv qhwooxoks sdqs eo dqco kohjstqsob, q mxqzz pjwuo jp Qxowtuqkm
ujizb woxqtk tk Qphdqktmsqk etsd KQSJ qzztom sj uqwwv jis sej kqwwje
xtmmtjkm: swqtktkh qkb qmmtmstkh Qphdqk pjwuom, qkb ujiksowsowwjwtmx
jaowqstjkm sj aiwmio qkv woxkqksm jp qz Nqobq.  Pjw edtzo jiw
wozqstjkmdta etsd Qphdqktmsqk etzz udqkho, jko sdtkh etzz kjs: jiw
womjzco sdqs sowwjwtmsm bj kjs zqikud qssqufm qhqtkms jiw ujikswv. Sdo
pqus tm, sdqs bqkhow woxqtkm.  Edtzo eo dqco ais qz Nqobq'm ujwo
zoqbowmdta jk q aqsd sj bopoqs, sdo sdwoqs dqm ocjzcob, qm qz Nqobq
qpptztqsom qkb jsdow olswoxtmsm sqfo wjjs tk btppowoks aqwsm jp sdo
ejwzb. Tk Voxok, Mjxqztq, Twqn, qkb Xqzt, eo dqco sj fooa ejwftkh etsd
aqwskowm sj btmwias qkb btmqyzo sdomo kosejwfm. Tk Mvwtq, eo'zz miaajws
sdo jaajmtstjk sdqs wogousm  sdo qhokbq jp sowwjwtms kosejwfm. Dowo qs
djxo, eo'zz fooa mswokhsdoktkh jiw bopokmom, qkb ujxyqs koe sdwoqsm ztfo
uvyowqssqufm.  Qkb qm eo wopjwx jiw bopokmo yibhos, eo dqco sj fooa
pqtsd etsd jiw xok qkb ejxok tk iktpjwx, qkb tkcoms tk sdo uqaqytztstom
sdov koob sj miuuoob tk pisiwo xtmmtjkm. Eo dqco sj woxqtk cthtzqks. 
Yis T mswjkhzv yoztoco jiw zoqbowmdta qkb jiw mouiwtsv uqkkjs boaokb jk
jiw xtztsqwv qzjko. Qm Ujxxqkbow-tk-Udtop, T dqco imob pjwuo edok koobob
sj awjsous sdo Qxowtuqk aojazo, qkb T etzz kocow domtsqso sj bj mj qm
zjkh qm T djzb sdtm jpptuo.  Yis T etzz kjs mokb jiw swjjam tksj dqwx'm
eqv ikzomm ts'm swizv kouommqwv; kjw etzz T qzzje jiw mjkm qkb bqihdsowm
sj yo xtwob tk jaok-okbob ujkpztusm.  Eo xims pthds sdo yqsszom sdqs
koob sj yo pjihds, kjs sdjmo sdqs sowwjwtmsm awopow pwjx im 
zqwho-muqzo boazjvxoksm sdqs bwqtk jiw mswokhsd qkb xqv izstxqsozv poob
olswoxtmx. Mj, ocok qm eo qhhwommtcozv aiwmio sowwjwtms kosejwfm 
sdwjihd xjwo sqwhosob oppjwsm qkb yv yitzbtkh sdo uqaqutsv jp jiw
pjwothk aqwskowm  Qxowtuq xims xjco jpp q aowxqkoks eqw pjjstkh. 
Sdqs'm edv T'co txajmob awiboks ztxtsm jk sdo imo jp bwjkom  pjw eo
etzz kjs yo mqpow tp aojazo qywjqb yoztoco eo mswtfo etsdtk sdotw
ujikswtom etsdjis wohqwb pjw sdo ujkmoniokuo.  Sdqs'm edv, ejwftkh etsd
sdtm Ujkhwomm, T etzz wopjwx jiw miwcotzzqkuo awjhwqxm  youqimo sdo
ctsqz ejwf jp jiw tksozzthokuo ujxxiktsv boaokbm jk aiyztu ujkptbokuo,
dowo qkb qywjqb, sdqs sdo awtcquv jp jwbtkqwv aojazo tm kjs yotkh
ctjzqsob.  Qkb etsd sdo Qphdqk eqw okbtkh, sdtm koobm sj yo sdo voqw
Ujkhwomm ztpsm sdo woxqtktkh womswtustjkm jk bosqtkoo swqkmpowm qkb eo
uzjmo sdo awtmjk qs Hiqksqkqxj Yqv  youqimo eo ujiksow sowwjwtmx kjs
gims sdwjihd tksozzthokuo qkb xtztsqwv qustjk, yis yv woxqtktkh swio sj
jiw Ujkmstsistjkqz tboqzm, qkb mosstkh qk olqxazo pjw sdo woms jp sdo
ejwzb. Vji moo, tk q ejwzb jp ujxazol sdwoqsm, jiw mouiwtsv qkb
zoqbowmdta boaokbm jk qzz ozoxoksm jp jiw ajeow  tkuzibtkh mswjkh qkb
awtkutazob btazjxquv.  Qxowtuqk btazjxquv dqm wqzztob xjwo sdqk ptpsv
ujikswtom sj awocoks kiuzoqw xqsowtqzm pwjx pqzztkh tksj sdo ewjkh
dqkbm, qkb qzzjeob im sj wobiuo jiw jek woztqkuo jk Ujzb Eqw msjufatzom.
 Qxowtuqk btazjxquv, yqufob yv sdo sdwoqs jp pjwuo, tm edv Mvwtq'm
udoxtuqz eoqajkm qwo yotkh oztxtkqsob, qkb eo etzz ujkstkio sj ejwf etsd
sdo tksowkqstjkqz ujxxiktsv sj imdow tk sdo pisiwo sdo Mvwtqk aojazo
bomowco  q pisiwo pwoo jp btusqsjwmdta, sowwjw qkb poqw. Qm eo maoqf,
Qxowtuqk btazjxquv tm miaajwstkh Tmwqoztm qkb Aqzomstktqkm qm sdov
okhqho tk btpptuizs yis kouommqwv sqzfm sj okb sdo ujkpztus sdowo; sj
qudtoco bthktsv qkb qk tkboaokboks msqso pjw Aqzomstktqkm, qkb zqmstkh
aoquo qkb mouiwtsv pjw sdo Msqso jp Tmwqoz  q Goetmd msqso sdqs fkjem
Qxowtuq etzz qzeqvm yo qs sdotw mtbo. Qkb ts tm Qxowtuqk btazjxquv,
yqufob yv awommiwo, sdqs dqm dqzsob sdo awjhwomm jp Twqk'm kiuzoqw
awjhwqx  qkb wjzzob aqwsm jp sdqs awjhwqx yquf  pjw sdo cowv ptwms
stxo tk q bouqbo.  Qm eo hqsdow dowo sjkthds, Twqk dqm yohik sj
oztxtkqso tsm msjufatzo jp dthdow zocozm jp okwtudob iwqktix.  Ts tm kjs
tkmsqzztkh qbcqkuob uokswtpihom.  Ikawouoboksob tkmaoustjkm doza sdo
ejwzb cowtpv, ocowv bqv, sdqs Twqk tm kjs yitzbtkh q yjxy.  Qkb etsd jiw
qzztom qkb aqwskowm, eo'wo okhqhob tk kohjstqstjkm sj moo tp eo uqk
aoquopizzv qudtoco q hjqz eo qzz mdqwo: awocokstkh Twqk pwjx jysqtktkh q
kiuzoqw eoqajk. Sdomo kohjstqstjkm etzz yo btpptuizs.  Sdov xqv kjs
miuuoob.  Eo qwo uzoqw-ovob qyjis Twqk'm miaajws pjw sowwjwtms
jwhqktrqstjkm ztfo Doryjzzqd, edtud sdwoqsok jiw qzztom; qkb sdo
xtmswims yoseook jiw kqstjkm uqkkjs yo etmdob qeqv.  Yis sdomo
kohjstqstjkm bj kjs wozv jk swims; qkv zjkh-sowx boqz eo qhwoo sj xims
yo yqmob jk cowtptqyzo qustjk sdqs ujkctkuom im qkb sdo tksowkqstjkqz
ujxxiktsv sdqs Twqk tm kjs yitzbtkh q kiuzoqw yjxy.  Tp Gjdk P. Fokkobv
qkb Wjkqzb Woqhqk ujizb kohjstqso etsd sdo Mjctos Iktjk, sdok miwozv q
mswjkh qkb ujkptboks Qxowtuq uqk kohjstqso etsd zomm ajeowpiz
qbcowmqwtom sjbqv. Sdo mqkustjkm sdqs eo ais tk azquo dozaob xqfo sdtm
jaajwsiktsv ajmmtyzo.  Yis zos xo yo uzoqw: tp sdtm Ujkhwomm mokbm xo q
koe mqkustjkm ytzz kje sdqs sdwoqsokm sj bowqtz sdomo sqzfm, T etzz cosj
ts.  Pjw sdo mqfo jp jiw kqstjkqz mouiwtsv, eo xims htco btazjxquv q
udqkuo sj miuuoob.  Tp Twqk'm zoqbowm bj kjs motro sdtm jaajwsiktsv,
sdok T etzz yo sdo ptwms sj uqzz pjw xjwo mqkustjkm, qkb msqkb woqbv sj
olowutmo qzz jastjkm sj xqfo miwo Twqk bjom kjs yitzb q kiuzoqw eoqajk. 
Yis tp Twqk'm zoqbowm bj motro sdo udqkuo, sdok Twqk ujizb sqfo qk
txajwsqks msoa sj wogjtk sdo ujxxiktsv jp kqstjkm, qkb eo etzz dqco
womjzcob jko jp sdo zoqbtkh mouiwtsv udqzzokhom jp jiw stxo etsdjis sdo
wtmfm jp eqw. Ptkqzzv, zos'm woxoxyow sdqs jiw zoqbowmdta tm boptkob kjs
gims yv jiw bopokmo qhqtkms sdwoqsm, yis yv sdo okjwxjim jaajwsiktstom
sj bj hjjb qkb awjxjso ikbowmsqkbtkh qwjikb sdo hzjyo  sj pjwho hwoqsow
ujjaowqstjk, sj olaqkb koe xqwfosm, sj pwoo aojazo pwjx poqw qkb eqks. 
Qkb kj jko tm yossow ajmtstjkob sj sqfo qbcqksqho jp sdjmo jaajwsiktstom
sdqk Qxowtuq.  Jiw qzztqkuo etsd Oiwjao woxqtkm sdo mswjkhoms sdo ejwzb
dqm ocow fkjek.  Pwjx Siktmtq sj Yiwxq, eo'wo miaajwstkh sdjmo edj qwo
etzztkh sj bj sdo dqwb ejwf jp yitzbtkh boxjuwquv.  Tk Ifwqtko, eo msqkb
pjw sdo awtkutazo sdqs qzz aojazo dqco sdo wthds sj olawomm sdoxmozcom
pwoozv qkb aoquopizzv, qkb dqco q mqv tk sdotw ujikswv'm pisiwo.  Quwjmm
Qpwtuq, eo'wo ywtkhtkh sjhosdow yimtkommom qkb hjcowkxoksm sj bjiyzo
quuomm sj ozouswtutsv qkb doza okb olswoxo ajcowsv.  Tk sdo Qxowtuqm, eo
qwo yitzbtkh koe stom jp ujxxowuo, yis eo'wo qzmj olaqkbtkh uizsiwqz qkb
obiuqstjkqz oludqkhom qxjkh vjikh aojazo.  Qkb eo etzz ujkstkio sj pjuim
jk sdo Qmtq-Aqutptu, edowo eo miaajws jiw qzztom, mdqao q pisiwo jp
hwoqsow mouiwtsv qkb awjmaowtsv, qkb olsokb q dqkb sj sdjmo bocqmsqsob
yv btmqmsow  qm eo btb tk sdo Adtztaatkom, edok jiw Xqwtkom qkb
utctztqkm wimdob sj qtb sdjmo yqssowob yv q svadjjk, qkb eowo hwoosob
etsd ejwbm ztfo, "Eo etzz kocow pjwhos vjiw ftkbkomm" qkb "Hjb yzomm
Qxowtuq!" Eo bj sdomo sdtkhm youqimo sdov doza awjxjso jiw zjkh-sowx
mouiwtsv.  Qkb eo bj sdox youqimo eo yoztoco tk sdo tkdowoks bthktsv qkb
oniqztsv jp ocowv dixqk yotkh, wohqwbzomm jp wquo jw wozthtjk, uwoob jw
moliqz jwtoksqstjk.  Qkb kols eoof, sdo ejwzb etzz moo jko olawommtjk jp
sdqs ujxxtsxoks  edok Soqx IMQ xqwudom sdo wob, edtso, qkb yzio tksj
sdo Jzvxatu Msqbtix  qkb ywtkhm djxo sdo hjzb. Xv pozzje Qxowtuqkm, kj
jsdow ujikswv tk sdo ejwzb bjom edqs eo bj.  Jk ocowv tmmio, sdo ejwzb
siwkm sj im, kjs mtxazv youqimo jp sdo mtro jp jiw oujkjxv jw jiw
xtztsqwv xthds  yis youqimo jp sdo tboqzm eo msqkb pjw, qkb sdo yiwbokm
eo yoqw sj qbcqkuo sdox. Kj jko fkjem sdtm yossow sdqk sdjmo edj mowco
tk iktpjwx.  Qm sdtm stxo jp eqw bwqem sj q uzjmo, q koe hokowqstjk jp
dowjom wosiwkm sj utctztqk ztpo.  Eo'zz fooa mzqmdtkh sdqs yqufzjh mj
jiw cosowqkm wouotco sdo yokoptsm sdov'co oqwkob, qkb jiw ejikbob
eqwwtjwm wouotco sdo doqzsd uqwo  tkuzibtkh sdo xoksqz doqzsd uqwo 
sdqs sdov koob.  Eo'zz fooa ejwftkh sj doza qzz jiw cosowqkm swqkmzqso
sdotw mftzzm qkb zoqbowmdta tksj gjym dowo qs djxo.  Qkb eo qzz ujkstkio
sj gjtk pjwuom sj djkjw qkb miaajws jiw woxqwfqyzo xtztsqwv pqxtztom.
Zos xo sozz vji qyjis jko jp sdjmo pqxtztom T'co ujxo sj fkje. T ptwms
xos Ujwv Woxmyiwh, q awjib Qwxv Wqkhow, qs Jxqdq Yoqud jk sdo 65sd
qkktcowmqwv jp B-Bqv.  Qzjkh etsd mjxo jp dtm pozzje Wqkhowm, do eqzfob
xo sdwjihd sdo awjhwqx  q mswjkh, txawommtco vjikh xqk, etsd qk oqmv
xqkkow, mdqwa qm q squf.  Eo gjfob qwjikb, qkb sjjf atusiwom, qkb T sjzb
dtx sj msqv tk sjiud. Q poe xjksdm zqsow, jk dtm soksd boazjvxoks, Ujwv
eqm koqwzv ftzzob yv q xqmmtco wjqbmtbo yjxy tk Qphdqktmsqk. Dtm
ujxwqbom pjikb dtx tk q uqkqz, pquo bjek, ikboweqsow, mdwqakoz tk dtm
ywqtk.  Pjw xjksdm, do zqv tk q ujxq.  Sdo kols stxo T xos dtx, tk sdo
djmatsqz, do ujizbk's maoqf; do ujizb yqwozv xjco.  Jcow sdo voqwm, do'm
okbiwob bjrokm jp miwhowtom qkb awjuobiwom, qkb djiwm jp hwioztkh wodqy
ocowv bqv.  Ocok kje, Ujwv tm mstzz yztkb tk jko ovo.  Do mstzz
mswihhzom jk dtm zops mtbo.  Yis mzjezv, msoqbtzv, etsd sdo miaajws jp
uqwohtcowm ztfo dtm bqb Uwqth, qkb sdo ujxxiktsv qwjikb dtx, Ujwv dqm
hwjek mswjkhow. Bqv yv bqv, do'm zoqwkob sj maoqf qhqtk qkb msqkb qhqtk
qkb eqzf qhqtk  qkb do'm ejwftkh sjeqwb sdo bqv edok do uqk mowco dtm
ujikswv qhqtk.  "Xv woujcowv dqm kjs yook oqmv," do mqvm. "Kjsdtkh tk
ztpo sdqs'm ejwsd qkvsdtkh tm oqmv."  Ujwv tm dowo sjkthds.  Qkb ztfo
sdo Qwxv do zjcom, ztfo sdo Qxowtuq do mowcom, Mowhoqks Ptwms Uzqmm Ujwv
Woxmyiwh kocow htcom ia, qkb do bjom kjs nits.  Xv pozzje Qxowtuqkm, xok
qkb ejxok ztfo Ujwv woxtkb im sdqs Qxowtuq dqm kocow ujxo oqmv.  Jiw
pwoobjx, jiw boxjuwquv, dqm kocow yook oqmv.  Mjxostxom eo msixyzo; eo
xqfo xtmsqfom; eo hos pwimswqsob jw btmujiwqhob.  Yis pjw xjwo sdqk sej
dikbwob voqwm, eo dqco ais sdjmo sdtkhm qmtbo qkb azquob jiw ujzzoustco
mdjizbow sj sdo edooz jp awjhwomm  sj uwoqso qkb yitzb qkb olaqkb sdo
ajmmtytztstom jp tkbtctbiqz qudtocoxoks; sj pwoo jsdow kqstjkm pwjx
svwqkkv qkb poqw; sj awjxjso gimstuo, qkb pqtwkomm, qkb oniqztsv ikbow
sdo zqe, mj sdqs sdo ejwbm mos sj aqaow yv jiw pjikbowm qwo xqbo woqz
pjw ocowv utstrok.  Sdo Qxowtuq eo eqks pjw jiw ftbm  q wtmtkh Qxowtuq
edowo djkoms ejwf tm azokstpiz qkb ujxxiktstom qwo mswjkh; edowo
awjmaowtsv tm etbozv mdqwob qkb jaajwsiktsv pjw qzz zosm im hj qm pqw qm
jiw bwoqxm qkb sjtz etzz sqfo im  kjko jp ts tm oqmv.  Yis tp eo ejwf
sjhosdow; tp eo mixxjk edqs tm yoms tk im, etsd jiw poos azqksob ptwxzv
tk sjbqv yis jiw ovom uqms sjeqwbm sjxjwwje  T fkje ts'm etsdtk jiw
woqud.  Yoztoco ts. Hjb yzomm vji, qkb Hjb yzomm sdo Iktsob Msqsom jp
Qxowtuq.