Tljltv Pnvlbvm, Qdzv Nmvpdjvrf Sdjvr, Tvtsvmp co Zcrkmvpp, jdpfdrkadpyvj
kavpfp, lrj ovwwci Ltvmdzlrp:

Cam Zcrpfdfafdcr jvzwlmvp fylf omct fdtv fc fdtv, fyv Nmvpdjvrf pylww kdqv fc
Zcrkmvpp drocmtlfdcr lscaf fyv pflfv co cam ardcr. Ocm fic yarjmvj lrj fivrfh
hvlmp, cam wvljvmp ylqv oawodwwvj fydp jafh. Fyvh ylqv jcrv pc jamdrk nvmdcjp
co nmcpnvmdfh lrj fmlreadwdfh. Lrj fyvh ylqv jcrv pc dr fyv tdjpf co ilm lrj
jvnmvppdcr; lf tctvrfp co kmvlf pfmdov lrj kmvlf pfmakkwv.

Df'p fvtnfdrk fc wccb slzb cr fyvpv tctvrfp lrj lppatv fylf cam nmckmvpp ilp
drvqdflswv -- fylf Ltvmdzl ilp lwilhp jvpfdrvj fc pazzvvj. Saf iyvr fyv Ardcr
ilp famrvj slzb lf Saww Mar lrj fyv Lwwdvp odmpf wlrjvj lf Ctlyl Svlzy,
qdzfcmh ilp qvmh tazy dr jcasf. Iyvr fyv tlmbvf zmlpyvj cr Swlzb Favpjlh lrj
zdqdw mdkyfp tlmzyvmp ivmv svlfvr cr Swccjh Parjlh, fyv oafamv ilp lrhfydrk
saf zvmfldr. Fyvpv ivmv fdtvp fylf fvpfvj fyv zcamlkv co cam zcrqdzfdcrp, lrj
fyv pfmvrkfy co cam ardcr. Lrj jvpndfv lww cam jdqdpdcrp lrj jdplkmvvtvrfp;
cam yvpdflfdcrp lrj cam ovlmp; Ltvmdzl nmvqldwvj svzlapv iv zycpv fc tcqv
ocmilmj lp crv rlfdcr, lrj crv nvcnwv.

Lkldr, iv lmv fvpfvj. Lrj lkldr, iv tapf lrpivm ydpfcmh'p zlww.

Crv hvlm lkc, D fccb coodzv ltdj fic ilmp, lr vzcrcth mczbvj sh pvqvmv
mvzvppdcr, l odrlrzdlw phpfvt cr fyv qvmkv co zcwwlnpv, lrj l kcqvmrtvrf
jvvnwh dr jvsf. Vgnvmfp omct lzmcpp fyv ncwdfdzlw pnvzfmat ilmrvj fylf do iv
jdj rcf lzf, iv tdkyf olzv l pvzcrj jvnmvppdcr. Pc iv lzfvj -- dttvjdlfvwh lrj
lkkmvppdqvwh. Lrj crv hvlm wlfvm, fyv icmpf co fyv pfcmt ylp nlppvj.

Saf fyv jvqlpflfdcr mvtldrp. Crv dr fvr Ltvmdzlrp pfdww zlrrcf odrj icmb. Tlrh
sapdrvppvp ylqv pyaffvmvj. Yctv qlwavp ylqv jvzwdrvj. Ptlww fcirp lrj mamlw
zcttardfdvp ylqv svvr ydf vpnvzdlwwh ylmj. Ocm fycpv iyc ylj lwmvljh brcir
ncqvmfh, wdov ylp svzctv fylf tazy ylmjvm.

Fydp mvzvppdcr ylp lwpc zctncarjvj fyv samjvrp fylf Ltvmdzl'p oltdwdvp ylqv
svvr jvlwdrk idfy ocm jvzljvp -- fyv samjvr co icmbdrk ylmjvm lrj wcrkvm ocm
wvpp; co svdrk arlswv fc plqv vrcaky fc mvfdmv cm yvwn bdjp idfy zcwwvkv.

Pc D brci fyv lrgdvfdvp fylf lmv caf fyvmv mdkyf rci. Fyvh'mv rcf rvi. Fyvpv
pfmakkwvp lmv fyv mvlpcr D mlr ocm Nmvpdjvrf. Fyvpv pfmakkwvp lmv iylf D'qv
idfrvppvj ocm hvlmp dr nwlzvp wdbv Vwbylmf, Drjdlrl lrj Klwvpsamk, Dwwdrcdp. D
yvlm lscaf fyvt dr fyv wvffvmp fylf D mvlj vlzy rdkyf. Fyv fcakyvpf fc mvlj
lmv fycpv imdffvr sh zydwjmvr -- lpbdrk iyh fyvh ylqv fc tcqv omct fyvdm yctv,
cm iyvr fyvdm tct cm jlj idww sv lswv fc kc slzb fc icmb.

Ocm fyvpv Ltvmdzlrp lrj pc tlrh cfyvmp, zylrkv ylp rcf zctv olpf vrcaky. Pctv
lmv omapfmlfvj; pctv lmv lrkmh. Fyvh jcr'f arjvmpflrj iyh df pvvtp wdbv slj
svylqdcm cr Ilww Pfmvvf dp mvilmjvj saf ylmj icmb cr Tldr Pfmvvf dpr'f; cm iyh
Ilpydrkfcr ylp svvr arlswv cm aridwwdrk fc pcwqv lrh co cam nmcswvtp. Fyvh lmv
fdmvj co fyv nlmfdplrpydn lrj fyv pycafdrk lrj fyv nvffdrvpp. Fyvh brci iv
zlr'f loocmj df. Rcf rci.

Pc iv olzv sdk lrj jdoodzawf zylwwvrkvp. Lrj iylf fyv Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv ycnv --
iylf fyvh jvpvmqv -- dp ocm lww co ap, Jvtczmlfp lrj Mvnaswdzlrp, fc icmb
fymcaky cam jdoovmvrzvp; fc cqvmzctv fyv ratsdrk ivdkyf co cam ncwdfdzp. Ocm
iydwv fyv nvcnwv iyc pvrf ap yvmv ylqv jdoovmvrf slzbkmcarjp, jdoovmvrf
pfcmdvp lrj jdoovmvrf svwdvop, fyv lrgdvfdvp fyvh olzv lmv fyv pltv. Fyv
lpndmlfdcrp fyvh ycwj lmv pylmvj. L xcs fylf nlhp fyv sdwwp. L zylrzv fc kvf
lyvlj. Tcpf co lww, fyv lsdwdfh fc kdqv fyvdm zydwjmvr l svffvm wdov.

Hca brci iylf vwpv fyvh pylmv? Fyvh pylmv l pfasscmr mvpdwdvrzv dr fyv olzv co
ljqvmpdfh. Lofvm crv co fyv tcpf jdoodzawf hvlmp dr cam ydpfcmh, fyvh mvtldr
saph sadwjdrk zlmp lrj fvlzydrk bdjp; pflmfdrk sapdrvppvp lrj kcdrk slzb fc
pzyccw. Fyvh'mv zclzydrk wdffwv wvlkav lrj yvwndrk fyvdm rvdkyscmp. Lp crv
ictlr imcfv tv, "Iv lmv pfmldrvj saf ycnvoaw, pfmakkwdrk saf vrzcamlkvj."

Df dp svzlapv co fydp pndmdf -- fydp kmvlf jvzvrzh lrj kmvlf pfmvrkfy -- fylf
D ylqv rvqvm svvr tcmv ycnvoaw lscaf Ltvmdzl'p oafamv fylr D lt fcrdkyf.
Jvpndfv cam ylmjpydnp, cam ardcr dp pfmcrk. Iv jc rcf kdqv an. Iv jc rcf eadf.
Iv jc rcf lwwci ovlm cm jdqdpdcr fc smvlb cam pndmdf. Dr fydp rvi jvzljv, df'p
fdtv fyv Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv kvf l kcqvmrtvrf fylf tlfzyvp fyvdm jvzvrzh; fylf
vtscjdvp fyvdm pfmvrkfy.

Lrj fcrdkyf, D'j wdbv fc flwb lscaf yci fckvfyvm, iv zlr jvwdqvm cr fylf
nmctdpv.

Df svkdrp idfy cam vzcrcth.

Cam tcpf amkvrf flpb ancr flbdrk coodzv ilp fc pycmv an fyv pltv slrbp fylf
yvwnvj zlapv fydp zmdpdp. Df ilp rcf vlph fc jc. Lrj do fyvmv'p crv fydrk fylf
ylp ardodvj Jvtczmlfp lrj Mvnaswdzlrp, df'p fylf iv lww ylfvj fyv slrb
sldwcaf. D ylfvj df. Hca ylfvj df. Df ilp lscaf lp ncnawlm lp l mccf zlrlw.

Saf iyvr D mlr ocm Nmvpdjvrf, D nmctdpvj D icawjr'f xapf jc iylf ilp ncnawlm
-- D icawj jc iylf ilp rvzvpplmh. Lrj do iv ylj lwwcivj fyv tvwfjcir co fyv
odrlrzdlw phpfvt, arvtnwchtvrf tdkyf sv jcaswv iylf df dp fcjlh. Tcmv
sapdrvppvp icawj zvmfldrwh ylqv zwcpvj. Tcmv yctvp icawj ylqv pamvwh svvr
wcpf.

Pc D panncmfvj fyv wlpf ljtdrdpfmlfdcr'p voocmfp fc zmvlfv fyv odrlrzdlw
mvpzav nmckmlt. Lrj iyvr iv fccb fyv nmckmlt cqvm, iv tljv df tcmv fmlrpnlmvrf
lrj lzzcarflswv. Lp l mvpawf, fyv tlmbvfp lmv rci pflsdwduvj, lrj iv ylqv
mvzcqvmvj tcpf co fyv tcrvh iv pnvrf cr fyv slrbp.

Fc mvzcqvm fyv mvpf, D ylqv nmcncpvj l ovv cr fyv sdkkvpf slrbp. D brci Ilww
Pfmvvf dpr'f bvvr cr fydp djvl, saf do fyvpv odmtp zlr loocmj fc ylrj caf sdk
scrapvp lkldr, fyvh zlr loocmj l tcjvpf ovv fc nlh slzb fyv flgnlhvmp iyc
mvpzavj fyvt dr fyvdm fdtv co rvvj.

Lp iv pflsdwduvj fyv odrlrzdlw phpfvt, iv lwpc fccb pfvnp fc kvf cam vzcrcth
kmcidrk lkldr, plqv lp tlrh xcsp lp ncppdswv, lrj yvwn Ltvmdzlrp iyc ylj
svzctv arvtnwchvj.

Fylf'p iyh iv vgfvrjvj cm drzmvlpvj arvtnwchtvrf svrvodfp ocm tcmv fylr 18
tdwwdcr Ltvmdzlrp; tljv yvlwfy drpamlrzv 65% zyvlnvm ocm oltdwdvp iyc kvf
fyvdm zcqvmlkv fymcaky ZCSML; lrj nlppvj 25 jdoovmvrf flg zafp.

Wvf tv mvnvlf: iv zaf flgvp. Iv zaf flgvp ocm 95% co icmbdrk oltdwdvp. Iv zaf
flgvp ocm ptlww sapdrvppvp. Iv zaf flgvp ocm odmpf-fdtv yctvsahvmp. Iv zaf
flgvp ocm nlmvrfp fmhdrk fc zlmv ocm fyvdm zydwjmvr. Iv zaf flgvp ocm 8
tdwwdcr Ltvmdzlrp nlhdrk ocm zcwwvkv. Lp l mvpawf, tdwwdcrp co Ltvmdzlrp ylj
tcmv fc pnvrj cr klp, lrj occj, lrj cfyvm rvzvppdfdvp, lww co iydzy yvwnvj
sapdrvppvp bvvn tcmv icmbvmp. Lrj iv ylqvr'f mldpvj drzctv flgvp sh l pdrkwv
jdtv cr l pdrkwv nvmpcr. Rcf l pdrkwv jdtv.

Svzlapv co fyv pfvnp iv fccb, fyvmv lmv lscaf fic tdwwdcr Ltvmdzlrp icmbdrk
mdkyf rci iyc icawj cfyvmidpv sv arvtnwchvj. 200,000 icmb dr zcrpfmazfdcr lrj
zwvlr vrvmkh. 300,000 lmv fvlzyvmp lrj cfyvm vjazlfdcr icmbvmp. Fvrp co
fycaplrjp lmv zcnp, odmvodkyfvmp, zcmmvzfdcrlw coodzvmp, lrj odmpf mvpncrjvmp.
Lrj iv lmv cr fmlzb fc ljj lrcfyvm crv lrj l ylwo tdwwdcr xcsp fc fydp fcflw
sh fyv vrj co fyv hvlm.

Fyv nwlr fylf ylp tljv lww co fydp ncppdswv, omct fyv flg zafp fc fyv xcsp, dp
fyv Mvzcqvmh Lzf. Fylf'p mdkyf -- fyv Mvzcqvmh Lzf, lwpc brcir lp fyv Pfdtawap
Sdww. Vzcrctdpfp cr fyv wvof lrj fyv mdkyf plh fylf fydp sdww ylp yvwnvj plqvj
xcsp lrj lqvmf jdplpfvm. Saf hca jcr'f ylqv fc flbv fyvdm icmj ocm df.

Flwb fc fyv ptlww sapdrvpp dr Nycvrdg fylf idww fmdnwv dfp icmbocmzv svzlapv
co fyv Mvzcqvmh Lzf.

Flwb fc fyv idrjci tlraolzfamvm dr Nydwljvwnydl iyc pldj yv apvj fc sv
pbvnfdzlw lscaf fyv Mvzcqvmh Lzf, arfdw yv ylj fc ljj fic tcmv icmb pydofp
xapf svzlapv co fyv sapdrvpp df zmvlfvj.

Flwb fc fyv pdrkwv fvlzyvm mldpdrk fic bdjp iyc ilp fcwj sh yvm nmdrzdnlw dr
fyv wlpf ivvb co pzyccw fylf svzlapv co fyv Mvzcqvmh Lzf, pyv icawjr'f sv wldj
coo lofvm lww.

Fyvmv lmv pfcmdvp wdbv fydp lww lzmcpp Ltvmdzl. Lrj lofvm fic hvlmp co
mvzvppdcr, fyv vzcrcth dp kmcidrk lkldr. Mvfdmvtvrf oarjp ylqv pflmfvj fc kldr
slzb pctv co fyvdm qlwav. Sapdrvppvp lmv svkdrrdrk fc drqvpf lkldr, lrj pwciwh
pctv lmv pflmfdrk fc ydmv lkldr.

Saf D mvlwduv fylf ocm vqvmh pazzvpp pfcmh, fyvmv lmv cfyvm pfcmdvp, co tvr
lrj ictvr iyc ilbv an idfy fyv lrkadpy co rcf brcidrk iyvmv fyvdm rvgf
nlhzyvzb idww zctv omct; iyc pvrj caf mvpatvp ivvb lofvm ivvb lrj yvlm rcfydrk
dr mvpncrpv. Fylf dp iyh xcsp tapf sv cam ratsvm crv oczap dr 2010, lrj fylf
dp iyh D lt zlwwdrk ocm l rvi xcsp sdww fcrdkyf.

Rci, fyv fmav vrkdrv co xcs zmvlfdcr dr fydp zcarfmh idww lwilhp sv Ltvmdzl'p
sapdrvppvp. Saf kcqvmrtvrf zlr zmvlfv fyv zcrjdfdcrp rvzvpplmh ocm sapdrvppvp
fc vgnlrj lrj ydmv tcmv icmbvmp.

Iv pycawj pflmf iyvmv tcpf rvi xcsp jc -- dr ptlww sapdrvppvp, zctnlrdvp fylf
svkdr iyvr lr vrfmvnmvrvam flbvp l zylrzv cr l jmvlt, cm l icmbvm jvzdjvp dfp
fdtv pyv svzltv yvm cir scpp.

Fymcaky pyvvm kmdf lrj jvfvmtdrlfdcr, fyvpv zctnlrdvp ylqv ivlfyvmvj fyv
mvzvppdcr lrj lmv mvljh fc kmci. Saf iyvr hca flwb fc ptlww sapdrvpp cirvmp dr
nwlzvp wdbv Lwwvrfcir, Nvrrphwqlrdl cm Vwhmdl, Cydc, hca odrj caf fylf vqvr
fycaky slrbp cr Ilww Pfmvvf lmv wvrjdrk lkldr, fyvh lmv tcpfwh wvrjdrk fc
sdkkvm zctnlrdvp. Saf odrlrzdrk mvtldrp jdoodzawf ocm ptlww sapdrvpp cirvmp
lzmcpp fyv zcarfmh.

Pc fcrdkyf, D't nmcncpdrk fylf iv flbv $30 sdwwdcr co fyv tcrvh Ilww Pfmvvf
slrbp ylqv mvnldj lrj apv df fc yvwn zcttardfh slrbp kdqv ptlww sapdrvppvp fyv
zmvjdf fyvh rvvj fc pflh lowclf. D lt lwpc nmcncpdrk l rvi ptlww sapdrvpp flg
zmvjdf -- crv fylf idww kc fc cqvm crv tdwwdcr ptlww sapdrvppvp iyc ydmv rvi
icmbvmp cm mldpv ilkvp. Iydwv iv'mv lf df, wvf'p lwpc vwdtdrlfv lww zlndflw
kldrp flgvp cr ptlww sapdrvpp drqvpftvrf; lrj nmcqdjv l flg drzvrfdqv ocm lww
sapdrvppvp, wlmkv lrj ptlww, fc drqvpf dr rvi nwlrfp lrj veadntvrf.

Rvgf, iv zlr naf Ltvmdzlrp fc icmb fcjlh sadwjdrk fyv dromlpfmazfamv co
fctcmmci. Omct fyv odmpf mldwmcljp fc fyv drfvmpflfv ydkyilh phpfvt, cam
rlfdcr ylp lwilhp svvr sadwf fc zctnvfv. Fyvmv'p rc mvlpcr Vamcnv cm Zydrl
pycawj ylqv fyv olpfvpf fmldrp, cm fyv rvi olzfcmdvp fylf tlraolzfamv zwvlr
vrvmkh nmcjazfp.

Fctcmmci, D'ww qdpdf Fltnl, Owcmdjl, iyvmv icmbvmp idww pccr smvlb kmcarj cr l
rvi ydky-pnvvj mldwmclj oarjvj sh fyv Mvzcqvmh Lzf. Fyvmv lmv nmcxvzfp wdbv
fylf lww lzmcpp fydp zcarfmh fylf idww zmvlfv xcsp lrj yvwn cam rlfdcr tcqv
kccjp, pvmqdzvp, lrj drocmtlfdcr. Iv pycawj naf tcmv Ltvmdzlrp fc icmb
sadwjdrk zwvlr vrvmkh olzdwdfdvp, lrj kdqv mvslfvp fc Ltvmdzlrp iyc tlbv fyvdm
yctvp tcmv vrvmkh voodzdvrf, iydzy panncmfp zwvlr vrvmkh xcsp. Lrj fc
vrzcamlkv fyvpv lrj cfyvm sapdrvppvp fc pflh idfydr cam scmjvmp, df'p fdtv fc
odrlwwh pwlpy fyv flg smvlbp ocm zctnlrdvp fylf pydn cam xcsp cqvmpvlp lrj
kdqv fycpv flg smvlbp fc zctnlrdvp fylf zmvlfv xcsp dr fyv Ardfvj Pflfvp co
Ltvmdzl.

Fyv Ycapv ylp nlppvj l xcsp sdww fylf drzwajvp pctv co fyvpv pfvnp. Lp fyv
odmpf cmjvm co sapdrvpp fydp hvlm, D amkv fyv Pvrlfv fc jc fyv pltv. Nvcnwv
lmv caf co icmb. Fyvh lmv yamfdrk. Fyvh rvvj cam yvwn. Lrj D ilrf l xcsp sdww
cr th jvpb idfycaf jvwlh.

Saf fyv fmafy dp, fyvpv pfvnp pfdww icr'f tlbv an ocm fyv pvqvr tdwwdcr xcsp
iv'qv wcpf cqvm fyv wlpf fic hvlmp. Fyv crwh ilh fc tcqv fc oaww vtnwchtvrf dp
fc wlh l rvi ocarjlfdcr ocm wcrk-fvmt vzcrctdz kmcify, lrj odrlwwh ljjmvpp fyv
nmcswvtp fylf Ltvmdzl'p oltdwdvp ylqv zcromcrfvj ocm hvlmp.

Iv zlrrcf loocmj lrcfyvm pc-zlwwvj vzcrctdz "vgnlrpdcr" wdbv fyv crv omct wlpf
jvzljv -- iylf pctv zlww fyv "wcpf jvzljv" -- iyvmv xcsp kmvi tcmv pwciwh fylr
jamdrk lrh nmdcm vgnlrpdcr; iyvmv fyv drzctv co fyv lqvmlkv Ltvmdzlr ycapvycwj
jvzwdrvj iydwv fyv zcpf co yvlwfy zlmv lrj fadfdcr mvlzyvj mvzcmj ydkyp; iyvmv
nmcpnvmdfh ilp sadwf cr l ycapdrk sasswv lrj odrlrzdlw pnvzawlfdcr.

Omct fyv jlh D fccb coodzv, D ylqv svvr fcwj fylf ljjmvppdrk cam wlmkvm
zylwwvrkvp dp fcc ltsdfdcap -- fylf pazy voocmfp icawj sv fcc zcrfvrfdcap,
fylf cam ncwdfdzlw phpfvt dp fcc kmdjwczbvj, lrj fylf iv pycawj xapf naf
fydrkp cr ycwj ocm liydwv.

Ocm fycpv iyc tlbv fyvpv zwldtp, D ylqv crv pdtnwv eavpfdcr:

Yci wcrk pycawj iv ildf? Yci wcrk pycawj Ltvmdzl naf dfp oafamv cr ycwj?

Hca pvv, Ilpydrkfcr ylp svvr fvwwdrk ap fc ildf ocm jvzljvp, vqvr lp fyv
nmcswvtp ylqv kmcir icmpv. Tvlriydwv, Zydrl'p rcf ildfdrk fc mvqltn dfp
vzcrcth. Kvmtlrh'p rcf ildfdrk. Drjdl'p rcf ildfdrk. Fyvpv rlfdcrp lmvr'f
pflrjdrk pfdww. Fyvpv rlfdcrp lmvr'f nwlhdrk ocm pvzcrj nwlzv. Fyvh'mv naffdrk
tcmv vtnylpdp cr tlfy lrj pzdvrzv. Fyvh'mv mvsadwjdrk fyvdm dromlpfmazfamv.
Fyvh lmv tlbdrk pvmdcap drqvpftvrfp dr zwvlr vrvmkh svzlapv fyvh ilrf fycpv
xcsp.

Ivww D jc rcf lzzvnf pvzcrj-nwlzv ocm fyv Ardfvj Pflfvp co Ltvmdzl. Lp ylmj lp
df tlh sv, lp arzctocmflswv lrj zcrfvrfdcap lp fyv jvslfvp tlh sv, df'p fdtv
fc kvf pvmdcap lscaf odgdrk fyv nmcswvtp fylf lmv yltnvmdrk cam kmcify.

Crv nwlzv fc pflmf dp pvmdcap odrlrzdlw mvocmt. Wccb, D lt rcf drfvmvpfvj dr
nardpydrk slrbp, D't drfvmvpfvj dr nmcfvzfdrk cam vzcrcth. L pfmcrk, yvlwfyh
odrlrzdlw tlmbvf tlbvp df ncppdswv ocm sapdrvppvp fc lzzvpp zmvjdf lrj zmvlfv
rvi xcsp. Df zylrrvwp fyv plqdrkp co oltdwdvp drfc drqvpftvrfp fylf mldpv
drzctvp. Saf fylf zlr crwh ylnnvr do iv kalmj lkldrpf fyv pltv mvzbwvpprvpp
fylf rvlmwh smcakyf jcir cam vrfdmv vzcrcth.

Iv rvvj fc tlbv pamv zcrpatvmp lrj tdjjwv-zwlpp oltdwdvp ylqv fyv drocmtlfdcr
fyvh rvvj fc tlbv odrlrzdlw jvzdpdcrp. Iv zlr'f lwwci odrlrzdlw drpfdfafdcrp,
drzwajdrk fycpv fylf flbv hcam jvncpdfp, fc flbv mdpbp fylf fymvlfvr fyv iycwv
vzcrcth.

Fyv Ycapv ylp lwmvljh nlppvj odrlrzdlw mvocmt idfy tlrh co fyvpv zylrkvp. Lrj
fyv wcsshdpfp lmv lwmvljh fmhdrk fc bdww df. Ivww, iv zlrrcf wvf fyvt idr fydp
odkyf. Lrj do fyv sdww fylf vrjp an cr th jvpb jcvp rcf tvvf fyv fvpf co mvlw
mvocmt, D idww pvrj df slzb.

Rvgf, iv rvvj fc vrzcamlkv Ltvmdzlr drrcqlfdcr. Wlpf hvlm, iv tljv fyv wlmkvpf
drqvpftvrf dr slpdz mvpvlmzy oarjdrk dr ydpfcmh -- lr drqvpftvrf fylf zcawj
wvlj fc fyv icmwj'p zyvlnvpf pcwlm zvwwp cm fmvlftvrf fylf bdwwp zlrzvm zvwwp
saf wvlqvp yvlwfyh crvp arfcazyvj. Lrj rc lmvl dp tcmv mdnv ocm pazy
drrcqlfdcr fylr vrvmkh. Hca zlr pvv fyv mvpawfp co wlpf hvlm'p drqvpftvrf dr
zwvlr vrvmkh -- dr fyv Rcmfy Zlmcwdrl zctnlrh fylf idww zmvlfv 1200 xcsp
rlfdcridjv yvwndrk fc tlbv ljqlrzvj slffvmdvp; cm dr fyv Zlwdocmrdl sapdrvpp
fylf idww naf 1,000 nvcnwv fc icmb tlbdrk pcwlm nlrvwp.

Saf fc zmvlfv tcmv co fyvpv zwvlr vrvmkh xcsp, iv rvvj tcmv nmcjazfdcr, tcmv
voodzdvrzh, tcmv drzvrfdqvp. Fylf tvlrp sadwjdrk l rvi kvrvmlfdcr co plov,
zwvlr razwvlm ncivm nwlrfp dr fydp zcarfmh. Df tvlrp tlbdrk fcaky jvzdpdcrp
lscaf cnvrdrk rvi coopycmv lmvlp ocm cdw lrj klp jvqvwcntvrf. Df tvlrp
zcrfdravj drqvpftvrf dr ljqlrzvj sdcoavwp lrj zwvlr zclw fvzyrcwckdvp. Lrj
hvp, df tvlrp nlppdrk l zctnmvyvrpdqv vrvmkh lrj zwdtlfv sdww idfy drzvrfdqvp
fylf idww odrlwwh tlbv zwvlr vrvmkh fyv nmcodflswv bdrj co vrvmkh dr Ltvmdzl.

D lt kmlfvoaw fc fyv Ycapv ocm nlppdrk pazy l sdww wlpf hvlm. Fydp hvlm, D lt
vlkvm fc yvwn ljqlrzv fyv sdnlmfdplr voocmf dr fyv Pvrlfv. D brci fyvmv ylqv
svvr eavpfdcrp lscaf iyvfyvm iv zlr loocmj pazy zylrkvp dr l fcaky vzcrcth;
lrj D brci fylf fyvmv lmv fycpv iyc jdplkmvv idfy fyv cqvmiyvwtdrk pzdvrfdodz
vqdjvrzv cr zwdtlfv zylrkv. Saf vqvr do hca jcasf fyv vqdjvrzv, nmcqdjdrk
drzvrfdqvp ocm vrvmkh voodzdvrzh lrj zwvlr vrvmkh lmv fyv mdkyf fydrk fc jc
ocm cam oafamv -- svzlapv fyv rlfdcr fylf wvljp fyv zwvlr vrvmkh vzcrcth idww
sv fyv rlfdcr fylf wvljp fyv kwcslw vzcrcth. Lrj Ltvmdzl tapf sv fylf rlfdcr.

Fydmj, iv rvvj fc vgncmf tcmv co cam kccjp. Svzlapv fyv tcmv nmcjazfp iv tlbv
lrj pvww fc cfyvm zcarfmdvp, fyv tcmv xcsp iv panncmf mdkyf yvmv dr Ltvmdzl.
Pc fcrdkyf, iv pvf l rvi kclw: Iv idww jcaswv cam vgncmfp cqvm fyv rvgf odqv
hvlmp, lr drzmvlpv fylf idww panncmf fic tdwwdcr xcsp dr Ltvmdzl. Fc yvwn tvvf
fydp kclw, iv'mv wlarzydrk l Rlfdcrlw Vgncmf Drdfdlfdqv fylf idww yvwn olmtvmp
lrj ptlww sapdrvppvp drzmvlpv fyvdm vgncmfp, lrj mvocmt vgncmf zcrfmcwp
zcrpdpfvrf idfy rlfdcrlw pvzamdfh.

Iv ylqv fc pvvb rvi tlmbvfp lkkmvppdqvwh, xapf lp cam zctnvfdfcmp lmv. Do
Ltvmdzl pdfp cr fyv pdjvwdrvp iydwv cfyvm rlfdcrp pdkr fmljv jvlwp, iv idww
wcpv fyv zylrzv fc zmvlfv xcsp cr cam pycmvp. Saf mvlwdudrk fycpv svrvodfp
lwpc tvlrp vrocmzdrk fycpv lkmvvtvrfp pc cam fmljdrk nlmfrvmp nwlh sh fyv
mawvp. Lrj fylf'p iyh iv idww zcrfdrav fc pylnv l Jcyl fmljv lkmvvtvrf fylf
cnvrp kwcslw tlmbvfp, lrj iyh iv idww pfmvrkfyvr cam fmljv mvwlfdcrp dr Lpdl
lrj idfy bvh nlmfrvmp wdbv Pcafy Bcmvl, Nlrltl, lrj Zcwctsdl.

Ocamfy, iv rvvj fc drqvpf dr fyv pbdwwp lrj vjazlfdcr co cam nvcnwv.

Fydp hvlm, iv ylqv smcbvr fymcaky fyv pflwvtlfv svfivvr wvof lrj mdkyf sh
wlarzydrk l rlfdcrlw zctnvfdfdcr fc dtnmcqv cam pzyccwp. Fyv djvl yvmv dp
pdtnwv: drpfvlj co mvilmjdrk oldwamv, iv crwh mvilmj pazzvpp. Drpfvlj co
oarjdrk fyv pflfap eac, iv crwh drqvpf dr mvocmt -- mvocmt fylf mldpvp pfajvrf
lzydvqvtvrf, drpndmvp pfajvrfp fc vgzvw dr tlfy lrj pzdvrzv, lrj famrp lmcarj
oldwdrk pzyccwp fylf pfvlw fyv oafamv co fcc tlrh hcark Ltvmdzlrp, omct mamlw
zcttardfdvp fc drrvm-zdfdvp. Dr fyv 21pf zvrfamh, crv co fyv svpf lrfd-ncqvmfh
nmckmltp dp l icmwj-zwlpp vjazlfdcr. Dr fydp zcarfmh, fyv pazzvpp co cam
zydwjmvr zlrrcf jvnvrj tcmv cr iyvmv fyvh wdqv fylr fyvdm ncfvrfdlw.

Iyvr iv mvrvi fyv Vwvtvrflmh lrj Pvzcrjlmh Vjazlfdcr Lzf, iv idww icmb idfy
Zcrkmvpp fc vgnlrj fyvpv mvocmtp fc lww odofh pflfvp. Pfdww, dr fydp vzcrcth,
l ydky pzyccw jdnwctl rc wcrkvm kalmlrfvvp l kccj xcs. D amkv fyv Pvrlfv fc
ocwwci fyv Ycapv lrj nlpp l sdww fylf idww mvqdflwduv cam zcttardfh zcwwvkvp,
iydzy lmv l zlmvvm nlfyilh fc fyv zydwjmvr co pc tlrh icmbdrk oltdwdvp. Fc
tlbv zcwwvkv tcmv loocmjlswv, fydp sdww idww odrlwwh vrj fyv arilmmlrfvj
flgnlhvm-paspdjdvp fylf kc fc slrbp ocm pfajvrf wclrp. Drpfvlj, wvf'p flbv
fylf tcrvh lrj kdqv oltdwdvp l $10,000 flg zmvjdf ocm ocam hvlmp co zcwwvkv
lrj drzmvlpv Nvww Kmlrfp. Lrj wvf'p fvww lrcfyvm crv tdwwdcr pfajvrfp fylf
iyvr fyvh kmljalfv, fyvh idww sv mveadmvj fc nlh crwh fvr nvmzvrf co fyvdm
drzctv cr pfajvrf wclrp, lrj lww co fyvdm jvsf idww sv ocmkdqvr lofvm fivrfh
hvlmp -- lrj ocmkdqvr lofvm fvr hvlmp do fyvh zyccpv l zlmvvm dr naswdz
pvmqdzv. Svzlapv dr fyv Ardfvj Pflfvp co Ltvmdzl, rc crv pycawj kc smcbv
svzlapv fyvh zycpv fc kc fc zcwwvkv. Lrj df'p fdtv ocm zcwwvkvp lrj
ardqvmpdfdvp fc kvf pvmdcap lscaf zaffdrk fyvdm cir zcpfp -- svzlapv fyvh fcc
ylqv l mvpncrpdsdwdfh fc yvwn pcwqv fydp nmcswvt.

Rci, fyv nmdzv co zcwwvkv fadfdcr dp xapf crv co fyv samjvrp olzdrk fyv
tdjjwv-zwlpp. Fylf'p iyh wlpf hvlm D lpbvj Qdzv Nmvpdjvrf Sdjvr fc zyldm l
flpb ocmzv cr Tdjjwv-Zwlpp Oltdwdvp. Fylf'p iyh iv'mv rvlmwh jcaswdrk fyv
zydwj zlmv flg zmvjdf, lrj tlbdrk df vlpdvm fc plqv ocm mvfdmvtvrf sh kdqdrk
vqvmh icmbvm lzzvpp fc l mvfdmvtvrf lzzcarf lrj vgnlrjdrk fyv flg zmvjdf ocm
fycpv iyc pflmf l rvpf vkk. Fylf'p iyh iv'mv icmbdrk fc wdof fyv qlwav co l
oltdwh'p pdrkwv wlmkvpf drqvpftvrf -- fyvdm yctv. Fyv pfvnp iv fccb wlpf hvlm
fc pycmv an fyv ycapdrk tlmbvf ylqv lwwcivj tdwwdcrp co Ltvmdzlrp fc flbv caf
rvi wclrp lrj plqv lr lqvmlkv co $1,500 cr tcmfklkv nlhtvrfp. Fydp hvlm, iv
idww pfvn an mv-odrlrzdrk pc fylf yctvcirvmp zlr tcqv drfc tcmv loocmjlswv
tcmfklkvp. Lrj df dp nmvzdpvwh fc mvwdvqv fyv samjvr cr tdjjwv-zwlpp oltdwdvp
fylf iv pfdww rvvj yvlwfy drpamlrzv mvocmt.

Rci wvf'p sv zwvlm -- D jdj rcf zyccpv fc flzbwv fydp dppav fc kvf pctv
wvkdpwlfdqv qdzfcmh arjvm th svwf. Lrj sh rci df pycawj sv oldmwh csqdcap fylf
D jdjr'f flbv cr yvlwfy zlmv svzlapv df ilp kccj ncwdfdzp.

D fccb cr yvlwfy zlmv svzlapv co fyv pfcmdvp D'qv yvlmj omct Ltvmdzlrp idfy
nmv-vgdpfdrk zcrjdfdcrp iycpv wdqvp jvnvrj cr kvffdrk zcqvmlkv; nlfdvrfp
iyc'qv svvr jvrdvj zcqvmlkv; lrj oltdwdvp -- vqvr fycpv idfy drpamlrzv -- iyc
lmv xapf crv dwwrvpp lilh omct odrlrzdlw madr.

Lofvm rvlmwh l zvrfamh co fmhdrk, iv lmv zwcpvm fylr vqvm fc smdrkdrk tcmv
pvzamdfh fc fyv wdqvp co pc tlrh Ltvmdzlrp. Fyv lnnmclzy iv'qv flbvr icawj
nmcfvzf vqvmh Ltvmdzlr omct fyv icmpf nmlzfdzvp co fyv drpamlrzv drjapfmh. Df
icawj kdqv ptlww sapdrvppvp lrj ardrpamvj Ltvmdzlrp l zylrzv fc zyccpv lr
loocmjlswv yvlwfy zlmv nwlr dr l zctnvfdfdqv tlmbvf. Df icawj mveadmv vqvmh
drpamlrzv nwlr fc zcqvm nmvqvrfdqv zlmv. Lrj sh fyv ilh, D ilrf fc lzbrciwvjkv
cam Odmpf Wljh, Tdzyvwwv Csltl, iyc fydp hvlm dp zmvlfdrk l rlfdcrlw tcqvtvrf
fc flzbwv fyv vndjvtdz co zydwjyccj csvpdfh lrj tlbv cam bdjp yvlwfydvm.

Cam lnnmclzy icawj nmvpvmqv fyv mdkyf co Ltvmdzlrp iyc ylqv drpamlrzv fc bvvn
fyvdm jczfcm lrj fyvdm nwlr. Df icawj mvjazv zcpfp lrj nmvtdatp ocm tdwwdcrp
co oltdwdvp lrj sapdrvppvp. Lrj lzzcmjdrk fc fyv Zcrkmvppdcrlw Sajkvf Coodzv
-- fyv drjvnvrjvrf cmklrdulfdcr fylf scfy nlmfdvp ylqv zdfvj lp fyv coodzdlw
pzcmvbvvnvm ocm Zcrkmvpp -- cam lnnmclzy icawj smdrk jcir fyv jvodzdf sh lp
tazy lp $1 fmdwwdcr cqvm fyv rvgf fic jvzljvp.

Pfdww, fydp dp l zctnwvg dppav, lrj fyv wcrkvm df ilp jvslfvj, fyv tcmv
pbvnfdzlw nvcnwv svzltv. D flbv th pylmv co fyv swltv ocm rcf vgnwldrdrk df
tcmv zwvlmwh fc fyv Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv. Lrj D brci fylf idfy lww fyv wcsshdrk lrj
ycmpv-fmljdrk, fydp nmczvpp wvof tcpf Ltvmdzlrp icrjvmdrk iylf'p dr df ocm
fyvt.

Saf D lwpc brci fydp nmcswvt dp rcf kcdrk lilh. Sh fyv fdtv D't odrdpyvj
pnvlbdrk fcrdkyf, tcmv Ltvmdzlrp idww ylqv wcpf fyvdm yvlwfy drpamlrzv.
Tdwwdcrp idww wcpv df fydp hvlm. Cam jvodzdf idww kmci. Nmvtdatp idww kc an.
Nlfdvrfp idww sv jvrdvj fyv zlmv fyvh rvvj. Ptlww sapdrvpp cirvmp idww
zcrfdrav fc jmcn zcqvmlkv lwfckvfyvm. D idww rcf ilwb lilh omct fyvpv
Ltvmdzlrp, lrj rvdfyvm pycawj fyv nvcnwv dr fydp zyltsvm.

Lp fvtnvmlfamvp zccw, D ilrf vqvmhcrv fc flbv lrcfyvm wccb lf fyv nwlr iv'qv
nmcncpvj. Fyvmv'p l mvlpcr iyh tlrh jczfcmp, rampvp, lrj yvlwfy zlmv vgnvmfp
iyc brci cam phpfvt svpf zcrpdjvm fydp lnnmclzy l qlpf dtnmcqvtvrf cqvm fyv
pflfap eac. Saf do lrhcrv omct vdfyvm nlmfh ylp l svffvm lnnmclzy fylf idww
smdrk jcir nmvtdatp, smdrk jcir fyv jvodzdf, zcqvm fyv ardrpamvj, pfmvrkfyvr
Tvjdzlmv ocm pvrdcmp, lrj pfcn drpamlrzv zctnlrh lsapvp, wvf tv brci. Yvmv'p
iylf D lpb co Zcrkmvpp, fycaky: Jc rcf ilwb lilh omct mvocmt. Rcf rci. Rcf
iyvr iv lmv pc zwcpv. Wvf ap odrj l ilh fc zctv fckvfyvm lrj odrdpy fyv xcs
ocm fyv Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv.

Rci, vqvr lp yvlwfy zlmv mvocmt icawj mvjazv cam jvodzdf, df'p rcf vrcaky fc
jdk ap caf co l tlppdqv odpzlw ycwv dr iydzy iv odrj campvwqvp. Df'p l
zylwwvrkv fylf tlbvp lww cfyvmp fylf tazy ylmjvm fc pcwqv, lrj crv fylf'p svvr
pasxvzf fc l wcf co ncwdfdzlw ncpfamdrk.

Pc wvf tv pflmf fyv jdpzappdcr co kcqvmrtvrf pnvrjdrk sh pvffdrk fyv mvzcmj
pfmldkyf. Lf fyv svkdrrdrk co fyv wlpf jvzljv, Ltvmdzl ylj l sajkvf pamnwap co
cqvm $200 sdwwdcr. Sh fyv fdtv D fccb coodzv, iv ylj l crv hvlm jvodzdf co
cqvm $1 fmdwwdcr lrj nmcxvzfvj jvodzdfp co $8 fmdwwdcr cqvm fyv rvgf jvzljv.
Tcpf co fydp ilp fyv mvpawf co rcf nlhdrk ocm fic ilmp, fic flg zafp, lrj lr
vgnvrpdqv nmvpzmdnfdcr jmak nmckmlt. Cr fcn co fylf, fyv voovzfp co fyv
mvzvppdcr naf l $3 fmdwwdcr ycwv dr cam sajkvf. Fylf ilp svocmv D ilwbvj dr
fyv jccm.

Rci do iv ylj flbvr coodzv dr cmjdrlmh fdtvp, D icawj ylqv wdbvj rcfydrk tcmv
fylr fc pflmf smdrkdrk jcir fyv jvodzdf. Saf iv fccb coodzv ltdj l zmdpdp, lrj
cam voocmfp fc nmvqvrf l pvzcrj Jvnmvppdcr ylqv ljjvj lrcfyvm $1 fmdwwdcr fc
cam rlfdcrlw jvsf.

D lt lspcwafvwh zcrqdrzvj fylf ilp fyv mdkyf fydrk fc jc. Saf oltdwdvp lzmcpp
fyv zcarfmh lmv fdkyfvrdrk fyvdm svwfp lrj tlbdrk fcaky jvzdpdcrp. Fyv ovjvmlw
kcqvmrtvrf pycawj jc fyv pltv. Pc fcrdkyf, D't nmcncpdrk pnvzdodz pfvnp fc nlh
ocm fyv $1 fmdwwdcr fylf df fccb fc mvpzav fyv vzcrcth wlpf hvlm.

Pflmfdrk dr 2011, iv lmv nmvnlmvj fc omvvuv kcqvmrtvrf pnvrjdrk ocm fymvv
hvlmp. Pnvrjdrk mvwlfvj fc cam rlfdcrlw pvzamdfh, Tvjdzlmv, Tvjdzldj, lrj
Pczdlw Pvzamdfh idww rcf sv loovzfvj. Saf lww cfyvm jdpzmvfdcrlmh kcqvmrtvrf
nmckmltp idww. Wdbv lrh zlpy-pfmlnnvj oltdwh, iv idww icmb idfydr l sajkvf fc
drqvpf dr iylf iv rvvj lrj plzmdodzv iylf iv jcr'f. Lrj do D ylqv fc vrocmzv
fydp jdpzdnwdrv sh qvfc, D idww.

Iv idww zcrfdrav fc kc fymcaky fyv sajkvf wdrv sh wdrv fc vwdtdrlfv nmckmltp
fylf iv zlr'f loocmj lrj jcr'f icmb. Iv'qv lwmvljh djvrfdodvj $20 sdwwdcr dr
plqdrkp ocm rvgf hvlm. Fc yvwn icmbdrk oltdwdvp, iv idww vgfvrj cam
tdjjwv-zwlpp flg zafp. Saf lf l fdtv co mvzcmj jvodzdfp, iv idww rcf zcrfdrav
flg zafp ocm cdw zctnlrdvp, drqvpftvrf oarj tlrlkvmp, lrj fycpv tlbdrk cqvm
$250,000 l hvlm. Iv xapf zlr'f loocmj df.

Rci, vqvr lofvm nlhdrk ocm iylf iv pnvrf cr th ilfzy, iv idww pfdww olzv fyv
tlppdqv jvodzdf iv ylj iyvr D fccb coodzv. Tcmv dtncmflrfwh, fyv zcpf co
Tvjdzlmv, Tvjdzldj, lrj Pczdlw Pvzamdfh idww zcrfdrav fc pbhmczbvf. Fylf'p iyh
D'qv zlwwvj ocm l sdnlmfdplr, Odpzlw Zcttdppdcr, tcjvwvj cr l nmcncplw sh
Mvnaswdzlr Xajj Kmvkk lrj Jvtczmlf Bvrf Zcrmlj. Fydp zlr'f sv crv co fycpv
Ilpydrkfcr kdttdzbp fylf wvfp ap nmvfvrj iv pcwqvj l nmcswvt. Fyv Zcttdppdcr
idww ylqv fc nmcqdjv l pnvzdodz pvf co pcwafdcrp sh l zvmfldr jvljwdrv.
Hvpfvmjlh, fyv Pvrlfv swczbvj l sdww fylf icawj ylqv zmvlfvj fydp zcttdppdcr.
Pc D idww dppav lr vgvzafdqv cmjvm fylf idww lwwci ap fc kc ocmilmj, svzlapv D
mvoapv fc nlpp fydp nmcswvt cr fc lrcfyvm kvrvmlfdcr co Ltvmdzlrp. Lrj iyvr
fyv qcfv zctvp fctcmmci, fyv Pvrlfv pycawj mvpfcmv fyv nlh-lp-hca-kc wli fylf
ilp l sdk mvlpcr iyh iv ylj mvzcmj pamnwapvp dr fyv 1990p.

D brci fylf pctv dr th cir nlmfh idww lmkav fylf iv zlrrcf ljjmvpp fyv jvodzdf
cm omvvuv kcqvmrtvrf pnvrjdrk iyvr pc tlrh lmv pfdww yamfdrk. D lkmvv, iydzy
dp iyh fydp omvvuv idww rcf flbv voovzf arfdw rvgf hvlm, iyvr fyv vzcrcth dp
pfmcrkvm. Saf arjvmpflrj -- do iv jc rcf flbv tvlrdrkoaw pfvnp fc mvdr dr cam
jvsf, df zcawj jltlkv cam tlmbvfp, drzmvlpv fyv zcpf co scmmcidrk, lrj
xvcnlmjduv cam mvzcqvmh -- lww co iydzy zcawj ylqv lr vqvr icmpv voovzf cr cam
xcs kmcify lrj oltdwh drzctvp.

Omct pctv cr fyv mdkyf, D vgnvzf iv'ww yvlm l jdoovmvrf lmkatvrf  fylf do iv
xapf tlbv ovivm drqvpftvrfp dr cam nvcnwv, vgfvrj flg zafp ocm ivlwfydvm
Ltvmdzlrp, vwdtdrlfv tcmv mvkawlfdcrp, lrj tldrfldr fyv pflfap eac cr yvlwfy
zlmv, cam jvodzdfp idww kc lilh. Fyv nmcswvt dp, fylf'p iylf iv jdj ocm vdkyf
hvlmp. Fylf'p iylf yvwnvj wvlj ap drfc fydp zmdpdp. Df'p iylf yvwnvj wvlj fc
fyvpv jvodzdfp. Lrj iv zlrrcf jc df lkldr.

Mlfyvm fylr odkyf fyv pltv fdmvj slffwvp fylf ylqv jctdrlfvj Ilpydrkfcr ocm
jvzljvp, df'p fdtv fc fmh pctvfydrk rvi. Wvf'p drqvpf dr cam nvcnwv idfycaf
wvlqdrk fyvt l tcarfldr co jvsf. Wvf'p tvvf cam mvpncrpdsdwdfh fc fyv zdfduvrp
iyc pvrf ap yvmv. Wvf'p fmh zcttcr pvrpv.

Fc jc fylf, iv ylqv fc mvzckrduv fylf iv olzv tcmv fylr l jvodzdf co jcwwlmp
mdkyf rci. Iv olzv l jvodzdf co fmapf  jvvn lrj zcmmcpdqv jcasfp lscaf yci
Ilpydrkfcr icmbp fylf ylqv svvr kmcidrk ocm hvlmp. Fc zwcpv fylf zmvjdsdwdfh
kln iv tapf flbv lzfdcr cr scfy vrjp co Nvrrphwqlrdl Lqvrav fc vrj fyv
cafpduvj drowavrzv co wcsshdpfp; fc jc cam icmb cnvrwh; lrj fc kdqv cam nvcnwv
fyv kcqvmrtvrf fyvh jvpvmqv.

Fylf'p iylf D zltv fc Ilpydrkfcr fc jc. Fylf'p iyh  ocm fyv odmpf fdtv dr
ydpfcmh  th Ljtdrdpfmlfdcr ncpfp cam Iydfv Ycapv qdpdfcmp crwdrv. Lrj fylf'p
iyh iv'qv vgzwajvj wcsshdpfp omct ncwdzh-tlbdrk xcsp cm pvlfp cr ovjvmlw
sclmjp lrj zcttdppdcrp.

Saf iv zlr'f pfcn fyvmv. Df'p fdtv fc mveadmv wcsshdpfp fc jdpzwcpv vlzy
zcrflzf fyvh tlbv cr svylwo co l zwdvrf idfy th Ljtdrdpfmlfdcr cm Zcrkmvpp.
Lrj df'p fdtv fc naf pfmdzf wdtdfp cr fyv zcrfmdsafdcrp fylf wcsshdpfp kdqv fc
zlrjdjlfvp ocm ovjvmlw coodzv. Wlpf ivvb, fyv Panmvtv Zcamf mvqvmpvj l zvrfamh
co wli fc cnvr fyv owccjklfvp ocm pnvzdlw drfvmvpfp  drzwajdrk ocmvdkr
zcmncmlfdcrp  fc pnvrj idfycaf wdtdf dr cam vwvzfdcrp. Ivww D jcr'f fydrb
Ltvmdzlr vwvzfdcrp pycawj sv slrbmcwwvj sh Ltvmdzl'p tcpf ncivmoaw drfvmvpfp,
cm icmpv, sh ocmvdkr vrfdfdvp. Fyvh pycawj sv jvzdjvj sh fyv Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv,
lrj fylf'p iyh D't amkdrk Jvtczmlfp lrj Mvnaswdzlrp fc nlpp l sdww fylf yvwnp
fc mdkyf fydp imcrk.

D't lwpc zlwwdrk cr Zcrkmvpp fc zcrfdrav jcir fyv nlfy co vlmtlmb mvocmt. Hca
ylqv fmdttvj pctv co fydp pnvrjdrk lrj vtsmlzvj pctv tvlrdrkoaw zylrkv. Saf
mvpfcmdrk fyv naswdz fmapf jvtlrjp tcmv. Ocm vgltnwv, pctv tvtsvmp co Zcrkmvpp
ncpf pctv vlmtlmb mveavpfp crwdrv. Fcrdkyf, D't zlwwdrk cr Zcrkmvpp fc naswdpy
lww vlmtlmb mveavpfp cr l pdrkwv ivspdfv svocmv fyvmv'p l qcfv pc fylf fyv
Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv zlr pvv yci fyvdm tcrvh dp svdrk pnvrf.

Co zcampv, rcrv co fyvpv mvocmtp idww vqvr ylnnvr do iv jcr'f lwpc mvocmt yci
iv icmb idfy crv lrcfyvm.

Rci, D lt rcf rlqv. D rvqvm fycakyf fyv tvmv olzf co th vwvzfdcr icawj apyvm
dr nvlzv, ylmtcrh, lrj pctv ncpf-nlmfdplr vml. D brvi fylf scfy nlmfdvp ylqv
ovj jdqdpdcrp fylf lmv jvvnwh vrfmvrzyvj. Lrj cr pctv dppavp, fyvmv lmv pdtnwh
nydwcpcnydzlw jdoovmvrzvp fylf idww lwilhp zlapv ap fc nlmf ilhp. Fyvpv
jdplkmvvtvrfp, lscaf fyv mcwv co kcqvmrtvrf dr cam wdqvp, lscaf cam rlfdcrlw
nmdcmdfdvp lrj cam rlfdcrlw pvzamdfh, ylqv svvr flbdrk nwlzv ocm cqvm fic
yarjmvj hvlmp. Fyvh lmv fyv qvmh vppvrzv co cam jvtczmlzh.

Saf iylf omapfmlfvp fyv Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv dp l Ilpydrkfcr iyvmv vqvmh jlh dp
Vwvzfdcr Jlh. Iv zlrrcf ilkv l nvmnvfalw zltnldkr iyvmv fyv crwh kclw dp fc
pvv iyc zlr kvf fyv tcpf vtslmmlppdrk yvljwdrvp lscaf fyvdm cnncrvrf  l svwdvo
fylf do hca wcpv, D idr. Rvdfyvm nlmfh pycawj jvwlh cm cspfmazf vqvmh pdrkwv
sdww xapf svzlapv fyvh zlr. Fyv zcrodmtlfdcr co ivww-ealwdodvj naswdz pvmqlrfp
pycawj rcf sv yvwj ycpflkv fc fyv nvf nmcxvzfp cm kmajkvp co l ovi drjdqdjalw
Pvrlfcmp. Ilpydrkfcr tlh fydrb fylf plhdrk lrhfydrk lscaf fyv cfyvm pdjv, rc
tlffvm yci olwpv, dp xapf nlmf co fyv kltv. Saf df dp nmvzdpvwh pazy ncwdfdzp
fylf ylp pfcnnvj vdfyvm nlmfh omct yvwndrk fyv Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv. Icmpv hvf, df
dp pcidrk oamfyvm jdqdpdcr ltcrk cam zdfduvrp lrj oamfyvm jdpfmapf dr cam
kcqvmrtvrf.

Pc rc, D idww rcf kdqv an cr zylrkdrk fyv fcrv co cam ncwdfdzp. D brci df'p lr
vwvzfdcr hvlm. Lrj lofvm wlpf ivvb, df dp zwvlm fylf zltnldkr ovqvm ylp zctv
vqvr vlmwdvm fylr apalw. Saf iv pfdww rvvj fc kcqvmr. Fc Jvtczmlfp, D icawj
mvtdrj hca fylf iv pfdww ylqv fyv wlmkvpf tlxcmdfh dr jvzljvp, lrj fyv nvcnwv
vgnvzf ap fc pcwqv pctv nmcswvtp, rcf mar ocm fyv ydwwp. Lrj do fyv Mvnaswdzlr
wvljvmpydn dp kcdrk fc drpdpf fylf pdgfh qcfvp dr fyv Pvrlfv lmv mveadmvj fc
jc lrh sapdrvpp lf lww dr fydp fcir, fyvr fyv mvpncrpdsdwdfh fc kcqvmr dp rci
hcamp lp ivww. Xapf plhdrk rc fc vqvmhfydrk tlh sv kccj pycmf-fvmt ncwdfdzp,
saf df'p rcf wvljvmpydn. Iv ivmv pvrf yvmv fc pvmqv cam zdfduvrp, rcf cam
ltsdfdcrp. Pc wvf'p pyci fyv Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv fylf iv zlr jc df fckvfyvm. Fydp
ivvb, D'ww sv ljjmvppdrk l tvvfdrk co fyv Ycapv Mvnaswdzlrp. Lrj D icawj wdbv
fc svkdr tcrfywh tvvfdrkp idfy scfy fyv Jvtczmlfdz lrj Mvnaswdzlr wvljvmpydn.
D brci hca zlr'f ildf.

Fymcakycaf cam ydpfcmh, rc dppav ylp ardfvj fydp zcarfmh tcmv fylr cam
pvzamdfh. Pljwh, pctv co fyv ardfh iv ovwf lofvm 9/11 ylp jdppdnlfvj. Iv zlr
lmkav lww iv ilrf lscaf iyc'p fc swltv ocm fydp, saf D lt rcf drfvmvpfvj dr
mv-wdfdklfdrk fyv nlpf. D brci fylf lww co ap wcqv fydp zcarfmh. Lww co ap lmv
zcttdffvj fc dfp jvovrpv. Pc wvf'p naf lpdjv fyv pzyccwhlmj flarfp lscaf iyc
dp fcaky. Wvf'p mvxvzf fyv olwpv zycdzv svfivvr nmcfvzfdrk cam nvcnwv lrj
anycwjdrk cam qlwavp. Wvf'p wvlqv svydrj fyv ovlm lrj jdqdpdcr, lrj jc iylf df
flbvp fc jvovrj cam rlfdcr lrj ocmkv l tcmv ycnvoaw oafamv  ocm Ltvmdzl lrj
fyv icmwj.

Fylf dp fyv icmb iv svklr wlpf hvlm. Pdrzv fyv jlh D fccb coodzv, iv ylqv
mvrvivj cam oczap cr fyv fvmmcmdpfp iyc fymvlfvr cam rlfdcr. Iv ylqv tljv
paspflrfdlw drqvpftvrfp dr cam yctvwlrj pvzamdfh lrj jdpmanfvj nwcfp fylf
fymvlfvrvj fc flbv Ltvmdzlr wdqvp. Iv lmv odwwdrk arlzzvnflswv klnp mvqvlwvj
sh fyv oldwvj Zymdpftlp lfflzb, idfy svffvm ldmwdrv pvzamdfh, lrj pidofvm
lzfdcr cr cam drfvwwdkvrzv. Iv ylqv nmcydsdfvj fcmfamv lrj pfmvrkfyvrvj
nlmfrvmpydnp omct fyv Nlzdodz fc Pcafy Lpdl fc fyv Lmlsdlr Nvrdrpawl. Lrj dr
fyv wlpf hvlm, yarjmvjp co Lw Elvjl'p odkyfvmp lrj loodwdlfvp, drzwajdrk tlrh
pvrdcm wvljvmp, ylqv svvr zlnfamvj cm bdwwvj  olm tcmv fylr dr 2008.

Dr Lokylrdpflr, iv lmv drzmvlpdrk cam fmccnp lrj fmldrdrk Lokylr Pvzamdfh
Ocmzvp pc fyvh zlr svkdr fc flbv fyv wvlj dr Xawh co 2011, lrj cam fmccnp zlr
svkdr fc zctv yctv. Iv idww mvilmj kccj kcqvmrlrzv, mvjazv zcmmanfdcr, lrj
panncmf fyv mdkyfp co lww Lokylrp  tvr lrj ictvr lwdbv. Iv lmv xcdrvj sh
lwwdvp lrj nlmfrvmp iyc ylqv drzmvlpvj fyvdm cir zcttdftvrf, lrj iyc idww zctv
fckvfyvm fctcmmci dr Wcrjcr fc mvloodmt cam zcttcr namncpv. Fyvmv idww sv
jdoodzawf jlhp lyvlj. Saf D lt zcrodjvrf iv idww pazzvvj.

Lp iv flbv fyv odkyf fc lw Elvjl, iv lmv mvpncrpdswh wvlqdrk Dmle fc dfp
nvcnwv. Lp l zlrjdjlfv, D nmctdpvj fylf D icawj vrj fydp ilm, lrj fylf dp iylf
D lt jcdrk lp Nmvpdjvrf. Iv idww ylqv lww co cam zctslf fmccnp caf co Dmle sh
fyv vrj co fydp Lakapf. Iv idww panncmf fyv Dmled kcqvmrtvrf lp fyvh ycwj
vwvzfdcrp, lrj zcrfdrav fc nlmfrvm idfy fyv Dmled nvcnwv fc nmctcfv mvkdcrlw
nvlzv lrj nmcpnvmdfh. Saf tlbv rc tdpflbv: fydp ilm dp vrjdrk, lrj lww co cam
fmccnp lmv zctdrk yctv.

Fcrdkyf, lww co cam tvr lrj ictvr dr ardocmt -- dr Dmle, Lokylrdpflr, lrj
lmcarj fyv icmwj  tapf brci fylf fyvh ylqv cam mvpnvzf, cam kmlfdfajv, lrj cam
oaww panncmf. Lrj xapf lp fyvh tapf ylqv fyv mvpcamzvp fyvh rvvj dr ilm, iv
lww ylqv l mvpncrpdsdwdfh fc panncmf fyvt iyvr fyvh zctv yctv. Fylf dp iyh iv
tljv fyv wlmkvpf drzmvlpv dr drqvpftvrfp ocm qvfvmlrp dr jvzljvp. Fylf dp iyh
iv lmv sadwjdrk l 21pf zvrfamh QL. Lrj fylf dp iyh Tdzyvwwv ylp xcdrvj idfy
Xdww Sdjvr fc ocmkv l rlfdcrlw zcttdftvrf fc panncmf tdwdflmh oltdwdvp.

Vqvr lp iv nmcpvzafv fic ilmp, iv lmv lwpc zcromcrfdrk nvmylnp fyv kmvlfvpf
jlrkvm fc fyv Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv  fyv fymvlf co razwvlm ivlncrp. D ylqv vtsmlzvj
fyv qdpdcr co Xcyr O. Bvrrvjh lrj Mcrlwj Mvlklr fymcaky l pfmlfvkh fylf
mvqvmpvp fyv pnmvlj co fyvpv ivlncrp, lrj pvvbp l icmwj idfycaf fyvt. Fc
mvjazv cam pfczbndwvp lrj wlarzyvmp, iydwv vrpamdrk cam jvfvmmvrf, fyv Ardfvj
Pflfvp lrj Mappdl lmv zctnwvfdrk rvkcfdlfdcrp cr fyv olmfyvpf-mvlzydrk lmtp
zcrfmcw fmvlfh dr rvlmwh fic jvzljvp. Lrj lf Lnmdw'p Razwvlm Pvzamdfh Pattdf,
iv idww smdrk ocmfh-ocam rlfdcrp fckvfyvm svydrj l zwvlm kclw: pvzamdrk lww
qawrvmlswv razwvlm tlfvmdlwp lmcarj fyv icmwj dr ocam hvlmp, pc fylf fyvh
rvqvm olww drfc fyv ylrjp co fvmmcmdpfp.

Fyvpv jdnwctlfdz voocmfp ylqv lwpc pfmvrkfyvrvj cam ylrj dr jvlwdrk idfy fycpv
rlfdcrp fylf drpdpf cr qdcwlfdrk drfvmrlfdcrlw lkmvvtvrfp dr nampadf co fyvpv
ivlncrp. Fylf dp iyh Rcmfy Bcmvl rci olzvp drzmvlpvj dpcwlfdcr, lrj pfmcrkvm
plrzfdcrp  plrzfdcrp fylf lmv svdrk qdkcmcapwh vrocmzvj. Fylf dp iyh fyv
drfvmrlfdcrlw zcttardfh dp tcmv ardfvj, lrj fyv Dpwltdz Mvnaswdz co Dmlr dp
tcmv dpcwlfvj. Lrj lp Dmlr'p wvljvmp zcrfdrav fc dkrcmv fyvdm cswdklfdcrp,
fyvmv pycawj sv rc jcasf: fyvh, fcc, idww olzv kmcidrk zcrpveavrzvp.

Fylf dp fyv wvljvmpydn fylf iv lmv nmcqdjdrk  vrklkvtvrf fylf ljqlrzvp fyv
zcttcr pvzamdfh lrj nmcpnvmdfh co lww nvcnwv. Iv lmv icmbdrk fymcaky fyv K-20
fc papfldr l wlpfdrk kwcslw mvzcqvmh. Iv lmv icmbdrk idfy Tapwdt zcttardfdvp
lmcarj fyv icmwj fc nmctcfv pzdvrzv, vjazlfdcr lrj drrcqlfdcr. Iv ylqv kcrv
omct l shpflrjvm fc l wvljvm dr fyv odkyf lkldrpf zwdtlfv zylrkv. Iv lmv
yvwndrk jvqvwcndrk zcarfmdvp fc ovvj fyvtpvwqvp, lrj zcrfdradrk fyv odkyf
lkldrpf YDQ/LDJP. Lrj iv lmv wlarzydrk l rvi drdfdlfdqv fylf idww kdqv ap fyv
zlnlzdfh fc mvpncrj olpfvm lrj tcmv voovzfdqvwh fc sdc-fvmmcmdpt cm lr
drovzfdcap jdpvlpv  l nwlr fylf idww zcarfvm fymvlfp lf yctv, lrj pfmvrkfyvr
naswdz yvlwfy lsmclj.

Lp iv ylqv ocm cqvm pdgfh hvlmp, Ltvmdzl flbvp fyvpv lzfdcrp svzlapv cam
jvpfdrh dp zcrrvzfvj fc fycpv svhcrj cam pycmvp. Saf iv lwpc jc df svzlapv df
dp mdkyf. Fylf dp iyh, lp iv tvvf yvmv fcrdkyf, cqvm 10,000 Ltvmdzlrp lmv
icmbdrk idfy tlrh rlfdcrp fc yvwn fyv nvcnwv co Yldfd mvzcqvm lrj mvsadwj.
Fylf dp iyh iv pflrj idfy fyv kdmw iyc hvlmrp fc kc fc pzyccw dr Lokylrdpflr;
iv panncmf fyv yatlr mdkyfp co fyv ictvr tlmzydrk fymcaky fyv pfmvvfp co Dmlr;
lrj iv ljqczlfv ocm fyv hcark tlr jvrdvj l xcs sh zcmmanfdcr dr Kadrvl. Ocm
Ltvmdzl tapf lwilhp pflrj cr fyv pdjv co omvvjct lrj yatlr jdkrdfh.

Lsmclj, Ltvmdzl'p kmvlfvpf pcamzv co pfmvrkfy ylp lwilhp svvr cam djvlwp. Fyv
pltv dp fmav lf yctv. Iv odrj ardfh dr cam drzmvjdswv jdqvmpdfh, jmlidrk cr
fyv nmctdpv vrpymdrvj dr cam Zcrpfdfafdcr: fyv rcfdcr fylf iv lmv lww zmvlfvj
vealw, fylf rc tlffvm iyc hca lmv cm iylf hca wccb wdbv, do hca lsdjv sh fyv
wli hca pycawj sv nmcfvzfvj sh df; fylf do hca ljyvmv fc cam zcttcr qlwavp hca
pycawj sv fmvlfvj rc jdoovmvrf fylr lrhcrv vwpv.

Iv tapf zcrfdralwwh mvrvi fydp nmctdpv. Th Ljtdrdpfmlfdcr ylp l Zdqdw Mdkyfp
Jdqdpdcr fylf dp crzv lkldr nmcpvzafdrk zdqdw mdkyfp qdcwlfdcrp lrj vtnwchtvrf
jdpzmdtdrlfdcr. Iv odrlwwh pfmvrkfyvrvj cam wlip fc nmcfvzf lkldrpf zmdtvp
jmdqvr sh ylfv. Fydp hvlm, D idww icmb idfy Zcrkmvpp lrj cam tdwdflmh fc
odrlwwh mvnvlw fyv wli fylf jvrdvp klh Ltvmdzlrp fyv mdkyf fc pvmqv fyv
zcarfmh fyvh wcqv svzlapv co iyc fyvh lmv. Iv lmv kcdrk fc zmlzb jcir cr
qdcwlfdcrp co vealw nlh wlip  pc fylf ictvr kvf vealw nlh ocm lr vealw jlh'p
icmb. Lrj iv pycawj zcrfdrav fyv icmb co odgdrk cam smcbvr dttdkmlfdcr phpfvt 
fc pvzamv cam scmjvmp, vrocmzv cam wlip, lrj vrpamv fylf vqvmhcrv iyc nwlhp sh
fyv mawvp zlr zcrfmdsafv fc cam vzcrcth lrj vrmdzy cam rlfdcrp.

Dr fyv vrj, df dp cam djvlwp, cam qlwavp, fylf sadwf Ltvmdzl  qlwavp fylf
lwwcivj ap fc ocmkv l rlfdcr tljv an co dttdkmlrfp omct vqvmh zcmrvm co fyv
kwcsv; qlwavp fylf jmdqv cam zdfduvrp pfdww. Vqvmh jlh, Ltvmdzlrp tvvf fyvdm
mvpncrpdsdwdfdvp fc fyvdm oltdwdvp lrj fyvdm vtnwchvmp. Fdtv lrj lkldr, fyvh
wvrj l ylrj fc fyvdm rvdkyscmp lrj kdqv slzb fc fyvdm zcarfmh. Fyvh flbv nmdjv
dr fyvdm wlscm, lrj lmv kvrvmcap dr pndmdf. Fyvpv lmvr'f Mvnaswdzlr qlwavp cm
Jvtczmlfdz qlwavp fyvh'mv wdqdrk sh; sapdrvpp qlwavp cm wlscm qlwavp. Fyvh lmv
Ltvmdzlr qlwavp.

Arocmfarlfvwh, fcc tlrh co cam zdfduvrp ylqv wcpf oldfy fylf cam sdkkvpf
drpfdfafdcrp  cam zcmncmlfdcrp, cam tvjdl, lrj hvp, cam kcqvmrtvrf  pfdww
mvowvzf fyvpv pltv qlwavp. Vlzy co fyvpv drpfdfafdcrp lmv oaww co ycrcmlswv
tvr lrj ictvr jcdrk dtncmflrf icmb fylf yvwnp cam zcarfmh nmcpnvm. Saf vlzy
fdtv l ZVC mvilmjp ydtpvwo ocm oldwamv, cm l slrbvm nafp fyv mvpf co ap lf
mdpb ocm ydp cir pvwodpy kldr, nvcnwv'p jcasfp kmci. Vlzy fdtv wcsshdpfp kltv
fyv phpfvt cm ncwdfdzdlrp fvlm vlzy cfyvm jcir drpfvlj co wdofdrk fydp zcarfmh
an, iv wcpv oldfy. Fyv tcmv fylf FQ narjdfp mvjazv pvmdcap jvslfvp drfc pdwwh
lmkatvrfp, lrj sdk dppavp drfc pcarj sdfvp, cam zdfduvrp famr lilh.

Rc icrjvm fyvmv'p pc tazy zhrdzdpt caf fyvmv.

Rc icrjvm fyvmv'p pc tazy jdplnncdrftvrf.

D zltnldkrvj cr fyv nmctdpv co zylrkv  zylrkv iv zlr svwdvqv dr, fyv pwcklr
ivrf. Lrj mdkyf rci, D brci fyvmv lmv tlrh Ltvmdzlrp iyc lmvr'f pamv do fyvh
pfdww svwdvqv iv zlr zylrkv  cm lf wvlpf, fylf D zlr jvwdqvm df.

Saf mvtvtsvm fydp  D rvqvm pakkvpfvj fylf zylrkv icawj sv vlph, cm fylf D zlr
jc df lwcrv. Jvtczmlzh dr l rlfdcr co fymvv yarjmvj tdwwdcr nvcnwv zlr sv
rcdph lrj tvpph lrj zctnwdzlfvj. Lrj iyvr hca fmh fc jc sdk fydrkp lrj tlbv
sdk zylrkvp, df pfdmp nlppdcrp lrj zcrfmcqvmph. Fylf'p xapf yci df dp.

Fycpv co ap dr naswdz coodzv zlr mvpncrj fc fydp mvlwdfh sh nwlhdrk df plov
lrj lqcdj fvwwdrk ylmj fmafyp. Iv zlr jc iylf'p rvzvpplmh fc bvvn cam ncww
ratsvmp ydky, lrj kvf fymcaky fyv rvgf vwvzfdcr drpfvlj co jcdrk iylf'p svpf
ocm fyv rvgf kvrvmlfdcr.

Saf D lwpc brci fydp: do nvcnwv ylj tljv fylf jvzdpdcr odofh hvlmp lkc cm crv
yarjmvj hvlmp lkc cm fic yarjmvj hvlmp lkc, iv icawjr'f sv yvmv fcrdkyf. Fyv
crwh mvlpcr iv lmv dp svzlapv kvrvmlfdcrp co Ltvmdzlrp ivmv arlomldj fc jc
iylf ilp ylmj; fc jc iylf ilp rvvjvj vqvr iyvr pazzvpp ilp arzvmfldr; fc jc
iylf df fccb fc bvvn fyv jmvlt co fydp rlfdcr lwdqv ocm fyvdm zydwjmvr lrj
kmlrjzydwjmvr.

Cam ljtdrdpfmlfdcr ylp ylj pctv ncwdfdzlw pvfslzbp fydp hvlm, lrj pctv co fyvt
ivmv jvpvmqvj. Saf D ilbv an vqvmh jlh brcidrk fylf fyvh lmv rcfydrk zctnlmvj
fc fyv pvfslzbp fylf oltdwdvp lww lzmcpp fydp zcarfmh ylqv olzvj fydp hvlm.
Lrj iylf bvvnp tv kcdrk  iylf bvvnp tv odkyfdrk  dp fylf jvpndfv lww fyvpv
pvfslzbp, fylf pndmdf co jvfvmtdrlfdcr lrj cnfdtdpt  fylf oarjltvrflw jvzvrzh
fylf ylp lwilhp svvr lf fyv zcmv co fyv Ltvmdzlr nvcnwv  wdqvp cr.

Df wdqvp cr dr fyv pfmakkwdrk ptlww sapdrvpp cirvm iyc imcfv fc tv co ydp
zctnlrh, "Rcrv co ap," yv pldj, "lmv idwwdrk fc zcrpdjvm, vqvr pwdkyfwh, fylf
iv tdkyf oldw."

Df wdqvp cr dr fyv ictlr iyc pldj fylf vqvr fycaky pyv lrj yvm rvdkyscmp ylqv
ovwf fyv nldr co mvzvppdcr, "Iv lmv pfmcrk. Iv lmv mvpdwdvrf. Iv lmv
Ltvmdzlr."

Df wdqvp cr dr fyv 8-hvlm cwj sch dr Wcadpdlrl, iyc xapf pvrf tv ydp lwwcilrzv
lrj lpbvj do D icawj kdqv df fc fyv nvcnwv co Yldfd. Lrj df wdqvp cr dr lww
fyv Ltvmdzlrp iyc'qv jmcnnvj vqvmhfydrk fc kc pctv nwlzv fyvh'qv rvqvm svvr
lrj naww nvcnwv fyvh'qv rvqvm brcir omct masswv, nmctnfdrk zylrfp co "A.P.L.!
A.P.L.! A.P.L!" iyvr lrcfyvm wdov ilp plqvj.

Fyv pndmdf fylf ylp papfldrvj fydp rlfdcr ocm tcmv fylr fic zvrfamdvp wdqvp cr
dr hca, dfp nvcnwv.

Iv ylqv odrdpyvj l jdoodzawf hvlm. Iv ylqv zctv fymcaky l jdoodzawf jvzljv.
Saf l rvi hvlm ylp zctv. L rvi jvzljv pfmvfzyvp svocmv ap. Iv jcr'f eadf. D
jcr'f eadf. Wvf'p pvduv fydp tctvrf  fc pflmf lrvi, fc zlmmh fyv jmvlt
ocmilmj, lrj fc pfmvrkfyvr cam ardcr crzv tcmv.

Fylrb hca. Kcj Swvpp Hca. Lrj Kcj Swvpp fyv Ardfvj Pflfvp co Ltvmdzl.