Axrrkm-Tjfjpxil ka fnx Lxidfx dio ka fnx Nkqlx ka Uxeuxlxifdfjsxl:

Fnx Tkilfjfqfjki ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl euksjoxl fndf Tkiguxll lndrr dllxbvrx
diiqdrrz ki fnx ajulf Bkiodz ka Oxtxbvxu, dio jf ndl vxxi qlqdr aku fnx
Euxljoxif fk bdhx ik tkbbqijtdfjki ka d eqvrjt tndudtfxu fk fnx Lxidfx dio
Nkqlx ka Uxeuxlxifdfjsxl qifjr dosjlxo ka fnxju uxdojixll fk uxtxjsx jf. J
ndsx oxaxuuxo fk fnjl qldgx qifjr fnx trklx ka fnx ajulf bkifn ka fnx
lxlljki, vqf bz tkisjtfjkil ka oqfz mjrr ikf exubjf bx rkigxu fk eklfekix
fnx ojltndugx ka fnx kvrjgdfjki xickjixo vz fnx Tkilfjfqfjki qeki fnx
Euxljoxif "fk gjsx fk fnx Tkiguxll jiakubdfjki ka fnx lfdfx ka fnx Qijki
dio uxtkbbxio fk fnxju tkiljoxudfjki lqtn bxdlquxl dl nx lndrr cqogx
ixtxllduz dio xyexojxif." Jf jl bdffxu ka tkigudfqrdfjki fndf fnx Uxeqvrjt
jl fudiwqjrrz dosditjig ji d tduxxu ka euklexujfz dio exdtx.

Mnjrlf uxrdfjkil ka dbjfz tkifjiqx fk xyjlf vxfmxxi fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl dio
drr akuxjgi ekmxul, mjfn lkbx ka fnxb gudsx wqxlfjkil dux oxexiojig mnjtn
bdz uxwqjux fnx tkiljoxudfjki ka Tkiguxll.

Ka lqtn wqxlfjkil, fnx bklf jbekufdif jl fndf mnjtn ndl dujlxi kqf ka fnx
ixgkfjdfjkil mjfn Guxdf Vujfdji ji uxaxuxitx fk Txifudr Dbxujtd. Vz fnx
tkisxifjki tkitrqoxo vxfmxxi fnx fmk Gksxuibxifl ki fnx 19fn ka Deujr,
1850, vkfn edufjxl tksxidifxo fndf "ixjfnxu mjrr xsxu" "kttqez, ku akufjaz,
ku tkrkijpx, ku dllqbx ku xyxutjlx diz okbjijki ksxu Ijtdudgqd. Tklfd Ujtd,
fnx Bklwqjfk Tkdlf, ku diz eduf ka Txifudr Dbxujtd."

Jf mdl fnx qiokqvfxo qioxulfdiojig ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl ji bdhjig fnjl
fuxdfz fndf drr fnx euxlxif Lfdfxl ka fnx akubxu Uxeqvrjt ka Txifudr
Dbxujtd dio fnx xifjux fxuujfkuz ka xdtn mkqro fnxitxakufn xickz tkberxfx
jioxexioxitx, dio fndf vkfn tkifudtfjig edufjxl xigdgxo xwqdrrz dio fk fnx
ldbx xyfxif, aku fnx euxlxif dio, aku fnx aqfqux, fndf ja xjfnxu fnxi ndo
diz trdjb ka ujgnf ji Txifudr Dbxujtd lqtn trdjb dio drr kttqedfjki ku
dqfnkujfz qioxu jf mxux qiuxlxusxorz uxrjiwqjlnxo vz fnx lfjeqrdfjkil ka
fnx tkisxifjki, dio fndf ik okbjijki mdl fnxuxdafxu fk vx xyxutjlxo ku
dllqbxo ji diz eduf ka Txifudr Dbxujtd vz Guxdf Vujfdji ku fnx Qijfxo
Lfdfxl.

Fnjl Gksxuibxif tkilxifxo fk uxlfujtfjkil ji uxgduo fk d uxgjki ka tkqifuz
mnxuxji mx ndo lextjajt dio extqrjdu jifxuxlfl kirz qeki fnx tkisjtfjki
fndf fnx rjhx uxlfujtfjkil mxux ji fnx ldbx lxilx kvrjgdfkuz ki Guxdf
Vujfdji. Vqf aku fnjl qioxulfdiojig ka fnx akutx dio xaaxtf ka fnx
tkisxifjki jf mkqro ixsxu ndsx vxxi tkitrqoxo vz ql.

Lk trxdu mdl fnjl qioxulfdiojig ki fnx eduf ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl fndf ji
tkuuxlekioxitx tkifxbekudixkql mjfn fnx udfjajtdfjki ka fnx tkisxifjki jf
mdl ojlfjitfrz xyeuxllxo fndf fnx bqfqdr tksxidifl ka ikikttqedfjki mxux
ikf jifxioxo fk deerz fk fnx Vujfjln xlfdvrjlnbxif df fnx Vdrjpx. Fnjl
wqdrjajtdfjki jl fk vx dltujvxo fk fnx adtf fndf, ji sjufqx ka lqttxlljsx
fuxdfjxl mjfn euxsjkql lksxuxjgil ka fnx tkqifuz, Guxdf Vujfdji ndo
kvfdjixo d tkitxlljki ka fnx ujgnf fk tqf bdnkgdiz ku ozxmkkol df fnx
Vdrjpx, vqf mjfn ekljfjsx xytrqljki ka drr okbdji ku lksxuxjgifz; dio fnql
jf tkiajubl fnx idfqudr tkilfuqtfjki dio qioxulfkko jbekuf ka fnx fuxdfz dl
fk drr fnx uxlf ka fnx uxgjki fk mnjtn fnx lfjeqrdfjkil deerjxo.

Jf, nkmxsxu, vxtdbx deeduxif df di xdurz odz dafxu xifxujig qeki fnx
ojltndugx ka bz euxlxif aqitfjkil fndf Guxdf Vujfdji lfjrr tkifjiqxo ji fnx
xyxutjlx ku dllxufjki ka rdugx dqfnkujfz ji drr fndf eduf ka Txifudr
Dbxujtd tkbbkirz tdrrxo fnx Bklwqjfk Tkdlf, dio tksxujig fnx xifjux rxigfn
ka fnx Lfdfx ka Ijtdudgqd dio d eduf ka Tklfd Ujtd; fndf lnx uxgduoxo fnx
Vdrjpx dl nxu dvlkrqfx okbdji dio mdl gudoqdrrz xyfxiojig jfl rjbjfl df fnx
xyexilx ka fnx Lfdfx ka Nkioqudl, dio, fndf lnx ndo akubdrrz tkrkijpxo d
tkiljoxudvrx jilqrdu gukqe hikmi dl fnx Vdz Jlrdiol, dio vxrkigjig ka ujgnf
fk fndf Lfdfx.

Drr fnxlx dtfl ku euxfxiljkil ka Guxdf Vujfdji, vxjig tkifuduz fk fnx
ujgnfl ka fnx Lfdfxl ka Txifudr Dbxujtd dio fk fnx bdijaxlf fxiku ka nxu
lfjeqrdfjkil mjfn fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl dl qioxulfkko vz fnjl Gksxuibxif, ndsx
vxxi bdox fnx lqvcxtf ka ixgkfjdfjki fnukqgn fnx Dbxujtdi bjijlfxu ji
Rkioki. J fudilbjf nxuxmjfn fnx jilfuqtfjkil fk njb ki fnx lqvcxtf dio fnx
tkuuxlekioxitx vxfmxxi njb dio fnx Vujfjln lxtuxfduz aku akuxjgi daadjul,
vz mnjtn zkq mjrr exutxjsx fndf fnx fmk Gksxuibxifl ojaaxu mjoxrz dio
juuxtkitjrdvrz dl fk fnx tkilfuqtfjki ka fnx tkisxifjki dio jfl xaaxtf ki
fnxju uxlextfjsx uxrdfjkil fk Txifudr Dbxujtd.

Guxdf Vujfdji lk tkilfuqxl fnx tkisxifjki dl fk bdjifdji qitndigxo drr nxu
euxsjkql euxfxiljkil ksxu fnx Bklwqjfk Tkdlf dio ji ojaaxuxif edufl ka
Txifudr Dbxujtd. Fnxlx euxfxiljkil dl fk fnx Bklwqjfk Tkdlf dux akqioxo ki
fnx dllqbefjki ka ekrjfjtdr uxrdfjki vxfmxxi Guxdf Vujfdji dio fnx uxbidif
ka d fujvx ka Jiojdil ki fndf tkdlf, xifxuxo jifk df d fjbx mnxi fnx mnkrx
tkqifuz mdl d tkrkijdr ekllxlljki ka Ledji. Jf tdi ikf vx lqttxllaqrrz
tkifuksxufxo fndf vz fnx eqvrjt rdm ka Xqukex dio Dbxujtd ik eklljvrx dtf
ka lqtn Jiojdil ku fnxju euxoxtxllkul tkqro tkiaxu ki Guxdf Vujfdji diz
ekrjfjtdr ujgnfl.

Guxdf Vujfdji okxl ikf drrxgx fnx dllxif ka Ledji dl fnx kujgji ka nxu
trdjbl ki fnx Bklwqjfk Tkdlf. Lnx ndl, ki fnx tkifuduz, vz uxexdfxo dio
lqttxlljsx fuxdfjxl uxikqitxo dio uxrjiwqjlnxo drr euxfxiljkil ka nxu kmi
dio uxtkgijpxo fnx aqrr dio lksxuxjgi ujgnfl ka Ledji ji fnx bklf
qixwqjsktdr fxubl. Zxf fnxlx euxfxiljkil, lk mjfnkqf lkrjo akqiodfjki ji
fnx vxgjiijig dio fnql uxexdfxorz dvcquxo, mxux df d uxtxif exujko uxsjsxo
vz Guxdf Vujfdji dgdjilf fnx Txifudr Dbxujtdi Lfdfxl, fnx rxgjfjbdfx
lqttxllkul fk drr fnx ditjxif cqujlojtfjki ka Ledji ji fndf uxgjki. Fnxz
mxux ajulf deerjxo kirz fk d oxajixo eduf ka fnx tkdlf ka Ijtdudgqd,
dafxumduol fk fnx mnkrx ka jfl Dfrdifjt tkdlf, dio rdlfrz fk d eduf ka fnx
tkdlf ka Tklfd Ujtd, dio fnxz dux ikm uxdllxufxo fk fnjl xyfxif
ikfmjfnlfdiojig xigdgxbxifl fk fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl.

Ki fnx xdlfxui tkdlf ka Ijtdudgqd dio Tklfd Ujtd fnx jifxuaxuxitx ka Guxdf
Vujfdji, fnkqgn xyxufxo df kix fjbx ji fnx akub ka bjrjfduz kttqedfjki ka
fnx ekuf ka Ldi Cqdi oxr Ikufx, fnxi ji fnx exdtxaqr ekllxlljki ka fnx
deeukeujdfx dqfnkujfjxl ka fnx Txifudr Dbxujtdi Lfdfxl, jl ikm euxlxifxo vz
nxu dl fnx ujgnfaqr xyxutjlx ka d eukfxtfkulnje ksxu fnx Bklwqjfk fujvx ka
Jiojdil.

Vqf fnx xlfdvrjlnbxif df fnx Vdrjpx, ikm uxdtnjig adu vxzkio jfl fuxdfz
rjbjfl jifk fnx Lfdfx ka Nkioqudl, dio fndf ka fnx Vdz Jlrdiol,
deexufdjijig ka ujgnf fk fnx ldbx Lfdfx, dux dl ojlfjitfrz tkrkijdr
gksxuibxifl dl fnklx ka Cdbdjtd ku Tdidod, dio fnxuxakux tkifuduz fk fnx
sxuz rxffxu, dl mxrr dl fnx lejujf, ka fnx tkisxifjki mjfn fnx Qijfxo
Lfdfxl dl jf mdl df fnx fjbx ka udfjajtdfjki dio ikm jl qioxulfkko vz fnjl
Gksxuibxif.

Fnx jifxueuxfdfjki mnjtn fnx Vujfjln Gksxuibxif fnql, ji dllxufjki dio dtf,
exuljlfl ji dltujvjig fk fnx tkisxifjki xifjuxrz tndigxl jfl tndudtfxu.
Mnjrx jf nkrol ql fk drr kqu kvrjgdfjkil, jf ji d guxdf bxdlqux uxrxdlxl
Guxdf Vujfdji aukb fnklx mnjtn tkilfjfqfxo fnx tkiljoxudfjki ka fnjl
Gksxuibxif aku xifxujig jifk fnx tkisxifjki. Jf jl jbeklljvrx, ji bz
cqogbxif, aku fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl fk dtwqjxltx ji lqtn d tkilfuqtfjki ka fnx
uxlextfjsx uxrdfjkil ka fnx fmk Gksxuibxifl fk Txifudr Dbxujtd.

Fk d uxixmxo tdrr vz fnjl Gksxuibxif qeki Guxdf Vujfdji fk dvjox vz dio
Tduuz jifk xaaxtf fnx lfjeqrdfjkil ka fnx tkisxifjki dttkuojig fk jfl
kvsjkql jbekuf vz mjfnoudmjig aukb fnx ekllxlljki ku tkrkijpdfjki ka
ekufjkil ka fnx Txifudr Dbxujtdi Lfdfxl ka Nkioqudl, Ijtdudgqd, dio Tklfd
Ujtd, fnx Vujfjln Gksxuibxif ndl df rxigfn uxerjxo, daajubjig fndf fnx
kexudfjki ka fnx fuxdfz jl euklextfjsx kirz dio ojo ikf uxwqjux Guxdf
Vujfdji fk dvdioki ku tkifudtf diz ekllxlljkil nxro vz nxu ji Txifudr
Dbxujtd df fnx odfx ka jfl tkitrqljki.

Fnjl uxerz lqvlfjfqfxl d edufjdr jllqx ji fnx erdtx ka fnx gxixudr kix
euxlxifxo vz fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl. Fnx Vujfjln Gksxuibxif edllxl ksxu fnx
wqxlfjki ka fnx ujgnfl ka Guxdf Vujfdji, uxdr ku lqeeklxo, ji Txifudr
Dbxujtd, dio dllqbxl fndf lnx ndo lqtn ujgnfl df fnx odfx ka fnx fuxdfz dio
fndf fnklx ujgnfl tkbeuxnxioxo fnx eukfxtfkulnje ka fnx Bklwqjfk Jiojdil,
fnx xyfxioxo cqujlojtfjki dio rjbjfl ka fnx Vdrjpx, dio fnx tkrkiz ka fnx
Vdz Jlrdiol, dio fnxuxqeki euktxxol vz jberjtdfjki fk jiaxu fndf ja fnx
lfjeqrdfjkil ka fnx fuxdfz vx bxuxrz aqfqux ji xaaxtf Guxdf Vujfdji bdz
lfjrr tkifjiqx fk nkro fnx tkifxlfxo ekufjkil ka Txifudr Dbxujtd. Fnx
Qijfxo Lfdfxl tdi ikf dobjf xjfnxu fnx jiaxuxitx ku fnx euxbjlxl. Mx
lfxdojrz oxiz fndf df fnx odfx ka fnx fuxdfz Guxdf Vujfdji ndo diz
ekllxlljkil fnxux kfnxu fndi fnx rjbjfxo dio extqrjdu xlfdvrjlnbxif df fnx
Vdrjpx, dio bdjifdji fndf ja lnx ndo diz fnxz mxux lquuxioxuxo vz fnx
tkisxifjki.

Fnjl Gksxuibxif, uxtkgijpjig fnx kvrjgdfjkil ka fnx fuxdfz, ndl, ka tkqulx,
oxljuxo fk lxx jf xyxtqfxo ji gkko adjfn vz vkfn edufjxl, dio ji fnx
ojltqlljki, fnxuxakux, ndl ikf rkkhxo fk ujgnfl mnjtn mx bjgnf dllxuf
jioxexioxifrz ka fnx fuxdfz ji tkiljoxudfjki ka kqu gxkgudenjtdr ekljfjki
dio ka kfnxu tjutqblfditxl mnjtn tuxdfx aku ql uxrdfjkil fk fnx Txifudr
Dbxujtdi Lfdfxl ojaaxuxif aukb fnklx ka diz gksxuibxif ka Xqukex. Fnx
Vujfjln Gksxuibxif, ji jfl rdlf tkbbqijtdfjki, drfnkqgn mxrr hikmjig fnx
sjxml ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl, lfjrr oxtrduxl fndf jf lxxl ik uxdlki mnz d
tkitjrjdfkuz lejujf bdz ikf xidvrx fnx fmk Gksxuibxifl fk ksxutkbx drr
kvlfdtrxl fk d ldfjladtfkuz docqlfbxif ka fnx lqvcxtf.

Dllquxo ka fnx tkuuxtfixll ka fnx tkilfuqtfjki ka fnx fuxdfz tkilfdifrz
donxuxo fk vz fnjl Gksxuibxif dio uxlkrsxo fk jiljlf ki fnx ujgnfl ka fnx
Qijfxo Lfdfxl, zxf dtfqdfxo drlk vz fnx ldbx oxljux mnjtn jl dskmxo vz fnx
Vujfjln Gksxuibxif, fk uxbksx drr tdqlxl ka lxujkql bjlqioxulfdiojig
vxfmxxi fmk idfjkil dllktjdfxo vz lk bdiz fjxl ka jifxuxlf dio hjiouxo, jf
ndl deexduxo fk bx eukexu ikf fk tkiljoxu di dbjtdvrx lkrqfjki ka fnx
tkifuksxulz nkexrxll.

Fnxux jl, nkmxsxu, uxdlki fk deeuxnxio fndf mjfn Guxdf Vujfdji ji fnx
dtfqdr kttqedfjki ka fnx ojleqfxo fxuujfkujxl, dio fnx fuxdfz fnxuxakux
eudtfjtdrrz iqrr lk adu dl uxgduol kqu ujgnfl, fnjl jifxuidfjkidr
ojaajtqrfz tdi ikf rkig uxbdji qioxfxubjixo mjfnkqf jiskrsjig ji lxujkql
odigxu fnx aujxiorz uxrdfjkil mnjtn jf jl fnx jifxuxlf dl mxrr dl fnx oqfz
ka vkfn tkqifujxl fk tnxujln dio euxlxusx. Jf mjrr daakuo bx ljitxux
gudfjajtdfjki ja aqfqux xaakufl lndrr uxlqrf ji fnx lqttxll difjtjedfxo
nxuxfkakux mjfn bkux tkiajoxitx fndi fnx dlextf ka fnx tdlx exubjfl bx ikm
fk xifxufdji.

Kix kfnxu lqvcxtf ka ojltqlljki vxfmxxi fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl dio Guxdf Vujfdji
ndl gukmi kqf ka fnx dffxbef, mnjtn fnx xyjgxitjxl ka fnx mdu ji mnjtn lnx
jl xigdgxo mjfn Uqlljd jioqtxo nxu fk bdhx, fk oudm uxtuqjfl aukb fnx
Qijfxo Lfdfxl.

Jf jl fnx fudojfjkidr dio lxffrxo ekrjtz ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl fk bdjifdji
jbedufjdr ixqfudrjfz oqujig fnx mdul mnjtn aukb fjbx fk fjbx kttqu dbkig
fnx guxdf ekmxul ka fnx mkuro. Exuakubjig drr fnx oqfjxl ka ixqfudrjfz
fkmduo fnx uxlextfjsx vxrrjgxuxif lfdfxl, mx bdz uxdlkidvrz xyextf fnxb ikf
fk jifxuaxux mjfn kqu rdmaqr xickzbxif ka jfl vxixajfl. Ikfmjfnlfdiojig fnx
xyjlfxitx ka lqtn nklfjrjfjxl, kqu tjfjpxil uxfdjixo fnx jiojsjoqdr ujgnf
fk tkifjiqx drr fnxju dttqlfkbxo equlqjfl, vz rdio ku vz lxd, df nkbx ku
dvukdo, lqvcxtf kirz fk lqtn uxlfujtfjkil ji fnjl uxrdfjki dl fnx rdml ka
mdu, fnx qldgx ka idfjkil, ku lextjdr fuxdfjxl bdz jbeklx; dio jf jl kqu
lksxuxjgi ujgnf fndf kqu fxuujfkuz dio cqujlojtfjki lndrr ikf vx jisdoxo vz
xjfnxu ka fnx vxrrjgxuxif edufjxl aku fnx fudiljf ka fnxju dubjxl, fnx
kexudfjkil ka fnxju arxxfl, fnx rxsz ka fukkel aku fnxju lxusjtx, fnx
ajffjig kqf ka tuqjlxul vz ku dgdjilf xjfnxu, ku diz kfnxu dtf ku jitjoxif
ka mdu. Dio fnxlx qioxijdvrx ujgnfl ka ixqfudrjfz, jiojsjoqdr dio idfjkidr,
fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl mjrr qioxu ik tjutqblfditxl lquuxioxu.

Ji equlqditx ka fnjl ekrjtz, fnx rdml ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl ok ikf akuvjo
fnxju tjfjpxil fk lxrr fk xjfnxu ka fnx vxrrjgxuxif ekmxul dufjtrxl
tkifudvdio ka mdu ku fdhx bqijfjkil ka mdu ku lkrojxul ki vkduo fnxju
eujsdfx lnjel aku fudilekufdfjki; dio drfnkqgn ji lk okjig fnx jiojsjoqdr
tjfjpxi xyeklxl njl eukexufz ku exulki fk lkbx ka fnx ndpduol ka mdu, njl
dtfl ok ikf jiskrsx diz vuxdtn ka idfjkidr ixqfudrjfz iku ka fnxblxrsxl
jberjtdfx fnx Gksxuibxif. Fnql, oqujig fnx eukguxll ka fnx euxlxif mdu ji
Xqukex, kqu tjfjpxil ndsx, mjfnkqf idfjkidr uxlekiljvjrjfz fnxuxaku, lkro
gqiekmoxu dio dubl fk drr vqzxul, uxgduorxll ka fnx oxlfjidfjki ka fnklx
dufjtrxl. Kqu bxutndifbxi ndsx vxxi, dio lfjrr tkifjiqx fk vx, rdugxrz
xberkzxo vz Guxdf Vujfdji dio vz Auditx ji fudilekufjig fukkel, euksjljkil,
dio bqijfjkil ka mdu fk fnx eujitjedr lxdf ka bjrjfduz kexudfjkil dio ji
vujigjig nkbx fnxju ljth dio mkqioxo lkrojxul; vqf lqtn qlx ka kqu
bxutdifjrx bdujix jl ikf jifxuojtfxo xjfnxu vz fnx jifxuidfjkidr ku vz kqu
bqijtjedr rdm, dio fnxuxakux okxl ikf tkbeukbjlx kqu ixqfudr uxrdfjkil mjfn
Uqlljd. Vqf kqu bqijtjedr rdm, ji dttkuoditx mjfn fnx rdm ka idfjkil,
exuxbefkujrz akuvjol ikf kirz akuxjgixul, vqf kqu kmi tjfjpxil, fk ajf kqf
mjfnji fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl d sxllxr fk tkbbjf nklfjrjfjxl dgdjilf diz lfdfx
mjfn mnjtn fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl dux df exdtx, ku fk jituxdlx fnx akutx ka diz
akuxjgi dubxo sxllxr jifxioxo aku lqtn nklfjrjfjxl dgdjilf d aujxiorz
lfdfx.

Mndfxsxu tkitxui bdz ndsx vxxi axrf vz xjfnxu ka fnx vxrrjgxuxif ekmxul
rxlf eujsdfx dubxo tuqjlxul ku kfnxu sxllxrl ji fnx lxusjtx ka kix bjgnf vx
ajffxo kqf ji fnx ekufl ka fnjl tkqifuz fk oxeuxodfx ki fnx eukexufz ka fnx
kfnxu, drr lqtn axdul ndsx euksxo fk vx qffxurz gukqiorxll. Kqu tjfjpxil
ndsx vxxi mjfnnxro aukb diz lqtn dtf ku equeklx vz gkko adjfn dio vz
uxlextf aku fnx rdm.

Mnjrx fnx rdml ka fnx Qijki dux fnql exuxbefkuz ji fnxju euknjvjfjki ka fnx
xwqjebxif ku dubdbxif ka vxrrjgxuxif tuqjlxul ji kqu ekufl, fnxz euksjox
ikf rxll dvlkrqfxrz fndf ik exulki lndrr, mjfnji fnx fxuujfkuz ku
cqujlojtfjki ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl, xirjlf ku xifxu njblxra, ku njux ku
uxfdji dikfnxu exulki fk xirjlf ku xifxu njblxra, ku fk gk vxzkio fnx
rjbjfl ku cqujlojtfjki ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl mjfn jifxif fk vx xirjlfxo ku
xifxuxo, ji fnx lxusjtx ka diz akuxjgi lfdfx, xjfnxu dl d lkrojxu ku dl d
bdujix ku lxdbdi ki vkduo ka diz sxllxr ka mdu, rxffxu ka bduwqx, ku
eujsdfxxu. Dio fnxlx xidtfbxifl dux drlk ji lfujtf tkiakubjfz mjfn fnx rdm
ka idfjkil, mnjtn oxtrduxl fndf ik lfdfx ndl fnx ujgnf fk udjlx fukkel aku
rdio ku lxd lxusjtx ji dikfnxu lfdfx mjfnkqf jfl tkilxif, dio fndf, mnxfnxu
akuvjooxi vz fnx bqijtjedr rdm ku ikf, fnx sxuz dffxbef fk ok jf mjfnkqf
lqtn tkilxif jl di dffdth ki fnx idfjkidr lksxuxjgifz.

Lqtn vxjig fnx eqvrjt ujgnfl dio fnx bqijtjedr rdm ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl, ik
lkrjtjfqox ki fnx lqvcxtf mdl xifxufdjixo vz fnjl Gksxuibxif mnxi, d zxdu
ljitx, fnx Vujfjln Edurjdbxif edllxo di dtf fk euksjox aku fnx xirjlfbxif
ka akuxjgixul ji fnx bjrjfduz lxusjtx ka Guxdf Vujfdji. Ikfnjig ki fnx adtx
ka fnx dtf ku ji jfl eqvrjt njlfkuz jiojtdfxo fndf fnx Vujfjln Gksxuibxif
eukeklxo fk dffxbef uxtuqjfbxif ji fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl, iku ojo jf xsxu gjsx
jifjbdfjki ka lqtn jifxifjki fk fnjl Gksxuibxif. Jf mdl bdffxu ka lqueujlx,
fnxuxakux, fk ajio lqvlxwqxifrz fndf fnx xigdgxbxif ka exulkil mjfnji fnx
Qijfxo Lfdfxl fk euktxxo fk Ndrjady, ji fnx Vujfjln Euksjitx ka Iksd
Ltkfjd, dio fnxux xirjlf ji fnx lxusjtx ka Guxdf Vujfdji, mdl gkjig ki
xyfxiljsxrz, mjfn rjffrx ku ik ojlgqjlx. Kuojiduz rxgdr lfxel mxux
jbbxojdfxrz fdhxi fk duuxlf dio eqijln edufjxl tkitxuixo, dio lk eqf di xio
fk dtfl jiaujigjig fnx bqijtjedr rdm dio oxukgdfkuz fk kqu lksxuxjgifz.
Bxdimnjrx lqjfdvrx uxeuxlxifdfjkil ki fnx lqvcxtf mxux doouxllxo fk fnx
Vujfjln Gksxuibxif.

Fnxuxqeki jf vxtdbx hikmi, vz fnx dobjlljki ka fnx Vujfjln Gksxuibxif
jflxra, fndf fnx dffxbef fk oudm uxtuqjfl aukb fnjl tkqifuz kujgjidfxo mjfn
jf, ku df rxdlf ndo jfl deeuksdr dio lditfjki; vqf jf drlk deexduxo fndf
fnx eqvrjt dgxifl xigdgxo ji jf ndo "lfujigxif jilfuqtfjkil" ikf fk sjkrdfx
fnx bqijtjedr rdm ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl.

Jf jl ojaajtqrf fk qioxulfdio nkm jf lnkqro ndsx vxxi lqeeklxo fndf fukkel
tkqro vx udjlxo nxux vz Guxdf Vujfdji mjfnkqf sjkrdfjki ka fnx bqijtjedr
rdm. Fnx qibjlfdhdvrx kvcxtf ka fnx rdm mdl fk euxsxif xsxuz lqtn dtf mnjtn
ja exuakubxo bqlf vx xjfnxu ji sjkrdfjki ka fnx rdm ku ji lfqojxo xsdljki
ka jf, dio ji xjfnxu drfxuidfjsx fnx dtf okix mkqro vx drjhx jicqujkql fk
fnx lksxuxjgifz ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl. Ji fnx bxdifjbx fnx bdffxu dtwqjuxo
doojfjkidr jbekufditx vz fnx uxtuqjfbxifl ji fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl ikf vxjig
ojltkifjiqxo, dio fnx ojltrklqux ka fnx adtf fndf fnxz mxux euklxtqfxo qeki
d lzlfxbdfjt erdi oxsjlxo vz kaajtjdr dqfnkujfz; fndf uxtuqjfjig uxioxpskql
ndo vxxi kexixo ji kqu eujitjedr tjfjxl dio oxekfl aku fnx uxtxefjki ka
uxtuqjfl xlfdvrjlnxo ki kqu aukifjxu, dio fnx mnkrx vqljixll tkioqtfxo
qioxu fnx lqexusjljki dio vz fnx uxgqrdu tkkexudfjki ka Vujfjln kaajtxul,
tjsjr dio bjrjfduz, lkbx ji fnx Ikufn Dbxujtdi Euksjitxl dio lkbx ji fnx
Qijfxo Lfdfxl. Fnx tkberjtjfz ka fnklx kaajtxul ji di qioxufdhjig mnjtn
tkqro kirz vx dttkberjlnxo vz oxazjig kqu rdml, fnukmjig lqlejtjki ksxu kqu
dffjfqox ka ixqfudrjfz, dio ojluxgduojig kqu fxuujfkujdr ujgnfl jl
tkitrqljsxrz euksxo vz fnx xsjoxitx xrjtjfxo ki fnx fujdr ka lqtn ka fnxju
dgxifl dl ndsx vxxi deeuxnxioxo dio tkisjtfxo. Lkbx ka fnx kaajtxul fnql
jberjtdfxo dux ka njgn kaajtjdr ekljfjki, dio bdiz ka fnxb vxzkio kqu
cqujlojtfjki, lk fndf rxgdr euktxxojigl tkqro ikf uxdtn fnx lkqutx ka fnx
bjltnjxa.

Fnxlx tkiljoxudfjkil, dio fnx adtf fndf fnx tdqlx ka tkberdjif mdl ikf d
bxux tdlqdr kttquuxitx, fukf d oxrjvxudfx oxljgi, xifxuxo qeki mjfn aqrr
hikmrxogx ka kqu rdml dio idfjkidr ekrjtz dio tkioqtfxo vz uxlekiljvrx
eqvrjt aqitfjkidujxl, jbexrrxo bx fk euxlxif fnx tdlx fk fnx Vujfjln
Gksxuibxif, ji kuoxu fk lxtqux ikf kirz d txlldfjki ka fnx, mukig, vqf jfl
uxedudfjki. Fnx lqvcxtf jl lfjrr qioxu ojltqlljki, fnx uxlqrf ka mnjtn mjrr
vx tkbbqijtdfxo fk zkq ji oqx fjbx.

J uxexdf fnx uxtkbbxiodfjki lqvbjffxo fk fnx rdlf Tkiguxll, fndf euksjljki
vx bdox aku fnx deekjifbxif ka d tkbbjlljkixu, ji tkiixtfjki mjfn Guxdf
Vujfdji, fk lqusxz dio xlfdvrjln fnx vkqioduz rjix mnjtn ojsjoxl fnx
Fxuujfkuz ka Mdlnjigfki aukb fnx tkifjgqkql Vujfjln ekllxlljkil. Vz uxdlki
ka fnx xyfxif dio jbekufditx ka fnx tkqifuz ji ojleqfx, fnxux ndl vxxi
jbbjixif odigxu ka tkrrjljki vxfmxxi fnx lqvcxtfl ka Guxdf Vujfdji dio fnx
tjfjpxil ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl, jitrqojig fnxju uxlextfjsx dqfnkujfjxl, ji
fndf wqdufxu. Fnx euklextf ka d lexxoz duudigxbxif ndl tkifujvqfxo njfnxufk
fk jioqtx ki vkfn ljoxl akuvxduditx fk dllxuf vz akutx mndf xdtn trdjbl dl
d ujgnf. Tkifjiqditx ka oxrdz ki fnx eduf ka fnx fmk Gksxuibxifl fk dtf ji
fnx bdffxu mjrr jituxdlx fnx odigxul dio ojaajtqrfjxl ka fnx tkifuksxulz.

Bjlqioxulfdiojig xyjlfl dl fk fnx xyfxif, tndudtfxu, dio sdrqx ka fnx
ekllxllkuz ujgnfl ka fnx Nqolkil Vdz Tkbediz dio fnx eukexufz ka fnx Eqgxfl
Lkqio Dgujtqrfqudr Tkbediz uxlxusxo ji kqu fuxdfz mjfn Guxdf Vujfdji
uxrdfjsx fk fnx Fxuujfkuz ka Kuxgki. J ndsx uxdlki fk vxrjxsx fndf d
txlljki ka fnx ujgnfl ka vkfn tkbedijxl fk fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl, mnjtn mkqro
vx fnx uxdojxlf bxdil ka fxubjidfjig drr wqxlfjkil, tdi vx kvfdjixo ki
uxdlkidvrx fxubl, dio mjfn d sjxm fk fnjl xio J euxlxif fnx lqvcxtf fk fnx
dffxifjki ka Tkiguxll.

Fnx tkrkiz ka Ixmakqiordio, ndsjig xidtfxo fnx rdml uxwqjuxo vz fnx fuxdfz
ka fnx 5fn ka Cqix, 1854, jl ikm erdtxo ki fnx ldbx akkfjig ji uxlextf fk
tkbbxutjdr jifxutkqulx mjfn fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl dl fnx kfnxu Vujfjln Ikufn
Dbxujtdi Euksjitxl.

Fnx tkbbjlljki mnjtn fndf fuxdfz tkifxberdfxo, aku oxfxubjijig fnx ujgnfl
ka ajlnxuz ji ujsxul dio bkqfnl ka ujsxul ki fnx tkdlfl ka fnx Qijfxo
Lfdfxl dio fnx Vujfjln Ikufn Dbxujtdi Euksjitxl, ndl vxxi kugdijpxo, dio
ndl tkbbxitxo jfl rdvkul, fk tkberxfx mnjtn fnxux dux ixxoxo aqufnxu
deeukeujdfjkil aku fnx lxusjtx ka dikfnxu lxdlki.

Ji equlqditx ka fnx dqfnkujfz tkiaxuuxo vz d uxlkrqfjki ka fnx Lxidfx ka
fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl edllxo ki fnx 3o ka Bdutn rdlf, ikfjtx mdl gjsxi fk
Oxibduh ki fnx 14fn odz ka Deujr ka fnx jifxifjki ka fnjl Gksxuibxif fk
dsdjr jflxra ka fnx lfjeqrdfjki ka fnx lqvljlfjig tkisxifjki ka aujxiolnje,
tkbbxutx, dio idsjgdfjki vxfmxxi fndf Hjigokb dio fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl mnxuxvz
xjfnxu edufz bjgnf dafxu fxi zxdul fxubjidfx fnx ldbx df fnx xyejudfjki ka
kix zxdu aukb fnx odfx ka ikfjtx aku fndf equeklx.

Fnx tkiljoxudfjkil mnjtn rxo bx fk tdrr fnx dffxifjki ka Tkiguxll fk fndf
tkisxifjki dio jioqtxo fnx Lxidfx fk dokef fnx uxlkrqfjki uxaxuuxo fk lfjrr
tkifjiqx ji aqrr akutx. Fnx tkisxifjki tkifdjil di dufjtrx mnjtn, drfnkqgn
jf okxl ikf ojuxtfrz xigdgx fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl fk lqvbjf fk fnx jbekljfjki
ka fkrrl ki fnx sxllxrl dio tdugkxl ka Dbxujtdil edlljig jifk ku aukb fnx
Vdrfjt Lxd oqujig fnx tkifjiqditx ka fnx fuxdfz, zxf bdz vz eklljvjrjfz vx
tkilfuqxo dl jberzjig lqtn lqvbjlljki. Fnx xydtfjki ka fnklx fkrrl ikf
vxjig cqlfjajxo vz diz eujitjerx ka jifxuidfjkidr rdm, jf vxtdbx fnx ujgnf
dio oqfz ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl fk uxrjxsx fnxblxrsxl aukb fnx jberjtdfjki ka
xigdgxbxif ki fnx lqvcxtf, lk dl fk vx exuaxtfrz auxx fk dtf ji fnx
euxbjlxl ji lqtn mdz dl fnxju eqvrjt jifxuxlfl dio nkiku lndrr oxbdio.

J uxbdji ka fnx kejijki fndf fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl kqgnf ikf fk lqvbjf fk fnx
edzbxif ka fnx Lkqio oqxl, ikf lk bqtn vxtdqlx ka fnxju dbkqif, mnjtn jl d
lxtkioduz bdffxu, vqf vxtdqlx jf jl ji xaaxtf fnx uxtkgijfjki ka fnx ujgnf
ka Oxibduh fk fuxdf kix ka fnx guxdf bdujfjbx njgnmdzl ka idfjkil dl d
trklx lxd, dio euxsxif fnx idsjgdfjki ka jf dl d eujsjrxgx, aku mnjtn
fujvqfx bdz vx jbeklxo qeki fnklx mnk ndsx kttdljki fk qlx jf.

Fnjl Gksxuibxif ki d akubxu kttdljki, ikf qirjhx fnx euxlxif, ljgidrjpxo
jfl oxfxubjidfjki fk bdjifdji fnx auxxokb ka fnx lxdl dio ka fnx guxdf
idfqudr tndiixrl ka idsjgdfjki. Fnx Vduvduz Lfdfxl ndo aku d rkig fjbx
tkxutxo fnx edzbxif ka fujvqfx aukb drr idfjkil mnklx lnjel auxwqxifxo fnx
Bxojfxuudixdi. Fk fnx rdlf oxbdio ka lqtn edzbxif bdox vz fnxb fnx Qijfxo
Lfdfxl, drfnkqgn lqaaxujig rxll vz fnxju oxeuxodfjkil fndi bdiz kfnxu
idfjkil, uxfquixo fnx xyerjtjf dilmxu fndf mx euxaxuuxo mdu fk fujvqfx, dio
fnql kexixo fnx mdz fk fnx uxrjxa ka fnx tkbbxutx ka fnx mkuro aukb di
jgikbjijkql fdy, lk rkig lqvbjffxo fk vz fnx bkux ekmxuaqr idfjkil ka
Xqukex.

Ja fnx bdiixu ka edzbxif ka fnx Lkqio oqxl ojaaxu aukb fndf ka fnx fujvqfx
akubxurz tkitxoxo fk fnx Vduvduz Lfdfxl, lfjrr fnxju xydtfjki vz Oxibduh
ndl ik vxffxu akqiodfjki ji ujgnf. Xdtn mdl ji jfl kujgji ikfnjig vqf d fdy
ki d tkbbki idfqudr ujgnf, xyfkufxo vz fnklx mnk mxux df fndf fjbx dvrx fk
kvlfuqtf fnx auxx dio lxtqux xickzbxif ka jf, vqf mnk ik rkigxu ekllxll
fndf ekmxu.

Oxibduh, mnjrx uxljlfjig kqu dllxufjki ka fnx auxxokb ka fnx Vdrfjt Lkqio
dio Vxrfl, ndl jiojtdfxo d uxdojixll fk bdhx lkbx ixm duudigxbxif ki fnx
lqvcxtf, dio ndl jisjfxo fnx gksxuibxifl jifxuxlfxo, jitrqojig fnx Qijfxo
Lfdfxl, fk vx uxeuxlxifxo ji d tkisxifjki fk dllxbvrx aku fnx equeklx ka
uxtxjsjig dio tkiljoxujig d eukekljfjki mnjtn lnx jifxiol fk lqvbjf aku fnx
tdejfdrjpdfjki ka fnx Lkqio oqxl dio fnx ojlfujvqfjki ka fnx lqb fk vx edjo
dl tkbbqfdfjki dbkig fnx gksxuibxifl dttkuojig fk fnx uxlextfjsx
eukekufjkil ka fnxju bdujfjbx tkbbxutx fk dio aukb fnx Vdrfjt. J ndsx
oxtrjixo, ji vxndra ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl, fk dttxef fnjl jisjfdfjki, aku
fnx bklf tkgxif uxdlkil. Kix jl fndf Oxibduh okxl ikf kaaxu fk lqvbjf fk
fnx tkisxifjki fnx wqxlfjki ka nxu ujgnf fk rxsz fnx Lkqio oqxl. Fnx lxtkio
jl fndf ja fnx tkisxifjki mxux drrkmxo fk fdhx tkgijpditx ka fndf
edufjtqrdu wqxlfjki, lfjrr jf mkqro ikf vx tkbexfxif fk oxdr mjfn fnx guxdf
jifxuidfjkidr eujitjerx jiskrsxo, mnjtn daaxtfl fnx ujgnf ji kfnxu tdlxl ka
idsjgdfjki dio tkbbxutjdr auxxokb, dl mxrr dl fndf ka dttxll fk fnx Vdrfjt.
Dvksx drr, vz fnx xyeuxll fxubl ka fnx eukekljfjki jf jl tkifxberdfxo fndf
fnx tkiljoxudfjki ka fnx Lkqio oqxl lndrr vx tkbbjigrxo mjfn dio bdox
lqvkuojidfx fk d bdffxu mnkrrz xyfudixkql--fnx vdrditx ka ekmxu dbkig fnx
Gksxuibxifl ka Xqukex.

Mnjrx, nkmxsxu, uxcxtfjig fnjl eukekljfjki dio jiljlfjig ki fnx ujgnf ka
auxx fudiljf jifk dio aukb fnx Vdrfjt, J ndsx xyeuxllxo fk Oxibduh d
mjrrjigixll ki fnx eduf ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl fk lndux rjvxudrrz mjfn kfnxu
ekmxul ji tkbexildfjig nxu aku diz dosdifdgxl mnjtn tkbbxutx lndrr
nxuxdafxu oxujsx aukb xyexiojfquxl bdox vz nxu aku fnx jbeuksxbxif dio
ldaxfz ka fnx idsjgdfjki ka fnx Lkqio ku Vxrfl.

J rdz vxakux zkq nxuxmjfn lqiouz oktqbxifl ki fnx lqvcxtf, ji mnjtn bz
sjxml dux bkux aqrrz ojltrklxo. Lnkqro ik ldfjladtfkuz duudigxbxif vx lkki
tkitrqoxo, J lndrr dgdji tdrr zkqu dffxifjki fk fnx lqvcxtf, mjfn
uxtkbbxiodfjki ka lqtn bxdlquxl dl bdz deexdu fk vx uxwqjuxo ji kuoxu fk
dllxuf dio lxtqux fnx ujgnfl ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl, lk adu dl fnxz dux
daaxtfxo vz fnx euxfxiljkil ka Oxibduh.

J diikqitx mjfn bqtn gudfjajtdfjki fndf ljitx fnx dockquibxif ka fnx rdlf
Tkiguxll fnx wqxlfjki fnxi xyjlfjig vxfmxxi fnjl Gksxuibxif dio fndf ka
Auditx uxlextfjig fnx Auxitn tkilqr df Ldi Auditjltk ndl vxxi
ldfjladtfkujrz oxfxubjixo, dio fndf fnx uxrdfjkil ka fnx fmk Gksxuibxifl
tkifjiqx fk vx ka fnx bklf aujxiorz idfqux.

D wqxlfjki, drlk, mnjtn ndl vxxi exiojig aku lxsxudr zxdul vxfmxxi fnx
Qijfxo Lfdfxl dio fnx Hjigokb ka Guxxtx, gukmjig kqf ka fnx lxwqxlfudfjki
vz eqvrjt dqfnkujfjxl ka fndf tkqifuz ka eukexufz vxrkigjig fk fnx euxlxif
Dbxujtdi tkilqr df Dfnxil, dio mnjtn ndo vxxi fnx lqvcxtf ka sxuz xduixlf
ojltqlljki nxuxfkakux, ndl uxtxifrz vxxi lxffrxo fk fnx ldfjladtfjki ka fnx
edufz jifxuxlfxo dio ka vkfn Gksxuibxifl.

Mjfn Ledji exdtxaqr uxrdfjkil dux lfjrr bdjifdjixo, dio lkbx eukguxll ndl
vxxi bdox ji lxtqujig fnx uxouxll ka mukigl tkberdjixo ka vz fnjl
Gksxuibxif. Ledji ndl ikf kirz ojldskmxo dio ojldeeuksxo fnx tkioqtf ka fnx
kaajtxul mnk jrrxgdrrz lxjpxo dio oxfdjixo fnx lfxdbxu Vrdth Mduujku df
Ndsdid, vqf ndl drlk edjo fnx lqb trdjbxo dl jioxbijfz aku fnx rkll fnxuxvz
jiarjtfxo ki tjfjpxil ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl.

Ji tkilxwqxitx ka d oxlfuqtfjsx nquujtdix mnjtn sjljfxo Tqvd ji 1844, fnx
lqeuxbx dqfnkujfz ka fndf jlrdio jllqxo d oxtuxx exubjffjig fnx jbekufdfjki
aku fnx exujko ka ljy bkifnl ka txufdji vqjrojig bdfxujdrl dio euksjljkil
auxx ka oqfz, vqf uxskhxo jf mnxi dvkqf ndra fnx exujko kirz ndo xrdelxo,
fk fnx jicquz ka tjfjpxil ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl mnk ndo euktxxoxo fk dtf ki
fnx adjfn ka fndf oxtuxx. Fnx Ledijln Gksxuibxif uxaqlxo jioxbijajtdfjki fk
fnx edufjxl dggujxsxo qifjr uxtxifrz, mnxi jf mdl dllxifxo fk, edzbxif
vxjig eukbjlxo fk vx bdox lk lkki dl fnx dbkqif oqx tdi vx dltxufdjixo.

Ldfjladtfjki trdjbxo aku fnx duuxlf dio lxdutn ka fnx lfxdbxu Xr Okudok ndl
ikf zxf vxxi dttkuoxo, vqf fnxux jl uxdlki fk vxrjxsx fndf jf mjrr vx; dio
fndf tdlx, mjfn kfnxul, tkifjiqxl fk vx qugxo ki fnx dffxifjki ka fnx
Ledijln Gksxuibxif. J ok ikf dvdioki fnx nkex ka tkitrqojig mjfn Ledji lkbx
gxixudr duudigxbxif mnjtn, ja jf ok ikf mnkrrz euxsxif fnx uxtquuxitx ka
ojaajtqrfjxl ji Tqvd, mjrr uxioxu fnxb rxll auxwqxif, dio, mnxixsxu fnxz
lndrr kttqu, adtjrjfdfx fnxju bkux lexxoz lxffrxbxif.

Fnx jifxuekljfjki ka fnjl Gksxuibxif ndl vxxi jiskhxo vz bdiz ka jfl
tjfjpxil ki dttkqif ka jicqujxl okix fk fnxju exulkil dio eukexufz aku
mnjtn fnx Bxyjtdi Uxeqvrjt jl uxlekiljvrx. Fnx qindeez ljfqdfjki ka fndf
tkqifuz aku lkbx fjbx edlf ndl ikf drrkmxo jfl Gksxuibxif fk gjsx oqx
tkiljoxudfjki fk trdjbl ka eujsdfx uxedudfjki, dio ndl deexduxo fk tdrr aku
dio cqlfjaz lkbx akuvxduditx ji lqtn bdffxul ki fnx eduf ka fnjl
Gksxuibxif. Vqf ja fnx uxskrqfjkiduz bksxbxifl mnjtn ndsx rdfxrz kttquuxo
ji fndf Uxeqvrjt xio ji fnx kugdijpdfjki ka d lfdvrx gksxuibxif, qugxif
deexdrl fk jfl cqlfjtx mjrr fnxi vx bdox, dio, jf bdz vx nkexo, mjfn
lqttxll, aku fnx uxouxll ka drr tkberdjifl ka kqu tjfjpxil.

Ji uxgduo fk fnx Dbxujtdi Uxeqvrjtl, mnjtn aukb fnxju eukyjbjfz dio kfnxu
tkiljoxudfjkil ndsx extqrjdu uxrdfjkil fk fnjl Gksxuibxif, mnjrx jf ndl
vxxi bz tkilfdif djb lfujtfrz fk kvlxusx drr fnx kvrjgdfjkil ka ekrjfjtdr
aujxiolnje dio ka gkko ixjgnvkunkko, kvlfdtrxl fk fnjl ndsx dujlxi ji lkbx
ka fnxb aukb fnxju kmi jilqaajtjxif ekmxu fk tnxxh rdmrxll juuqefjkil,
mnjtn ji xaaxtf fnukml bklf ka fnx fdlh ki fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl. Fnql jf jl
fndf fnx ojlfudtfxo jifxuidr tkiojfjki ka fnx Lfdfx ka Ijtdudgqd ndl bdox
jf jitqbvxif ki bx fk deexdr fk fnx gkko adjfn ka kqu tjfjpxil fk dvlfdji
aukb qirdmaqr jifxusxifjki ji jfl daadjul dio fk dokef euxsxifjsx bxdlquxl
fk fnx ldbx xio, mnjtn ki d ljbjrdu kttdljki ndo fnx vxlf uxlqrfl ji
uxdllqujig fnx exdtx ka fnx Bxyjtdi Lfdfxl ka Lkikud dio Rkmxu Tdrjakuijd.

Ljitx fnx rdlf lxlljki ka Tkiguxll d fuxdfz ka dbjfz, tkbbxutx, dio
idsjgdfjki dio aku fnx lquuxioxu ka aqgjfjsx tujbjidrl mjfn fnx Hjigokb ka
fnx Fmk Ljtjrjxl; d fuxdfz ka aujxiolnje, tkbbxutx, dio idsjgdfjki mjfn
Ijtdudgqd, dio d tkisxifjki ka tkbbxutjdr uxtjeuktjfz mjfn fnx Ndmdjjdi
Hjigokb ndsx vxxi ixgkfjdfxo. Fnx rdffxu Hjigokb dio fnx Lfdfx ka Ijtdudgqd
ndsx drlk dttxoxo fk d oxtrdudfjki uxtkgijpjig dl jifxuidfjkidr ujgnfl fnx
eujitjerxl tkifdjixo ji fnx tkisxifjki vxfmxxi fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl dio Uqlljd
ka Cqrz 22, 1854. Fnxlx fuxdfjxl dio tkisxifjkil mjrr vx rdjo vxakux fnx
Lxidfx aku udfjajtdfjki.

Fnx lfdfxbxifl bdox ji bz rdlf diiqdr bxlldgx uxlextfjig fnx difjtjedfxo
uxtxjefl dio xyexiojfquxl ka fnx Fuxdlquz ndsx vxxi lqvlfdifjdrrz
sxujajxo.

Jf deexdul aukb fnx uxekuf ka fnx Lxtuxfduz ka fnx Fuxdlquz fndf fnx
uxtxjefl oqujig fnx rdlf ajltdr zxdu, xiojig Cqix 30, 1855, aukb drr
lkqutxl mxux $65,003,930, dio fndf fnx eqvrjt xyexiojfquxl aku fnx ldbx
exujko, xytrqljsx ka edzbxifl ki dttkqif ka fnx eqvrjt oxvf, dbkqifxo fk
$56,365,393. Oqujig fnx ldbx exujko fnx edzbxifl bdox ji uxoxbefjki ka fnx
eqvrjt oxvf, jitrqojig jifxuxlf dio euxbjqb, dbkqifxo fk $9,844,528.

Fnx vdrditx ji fnx Fuxdlquz df fnx vxgjiijig ka fnx euxlxif ajltdr zxdu,
Cqrz 1, 1855, mdl $18,931,976; fnx uxtxjefl aku fnx ajulf wqdufxu dio fnx
xlfjbdfxo uxtxjefl aku fnx uxbdjijig fnuxx wqdufxul dbkqif fkgxfnxu fk
$67,918,734; fnql daakuojig ji drr, dl fnx dsdjrdvrx uxlkqutxl ka fnx
tquuxif ajltdr zxdu, fnx lqb ka $86,856,710.

Ja fk fnx dtfqdr xyexiojfquxl ka fnx ajulf wqdufxu ka fnx tquuxif ajltdr
zxdu vx dooxo fnx eukvdvrx xyexiojfquxl aku fnx uxbdjijig fnuxx wqdufxul,
dl xlfjbdfxo vz fnx Lxtuxfduz ka fnx Fuxdlquz, fnx lqb fkfdr mjrr vx
$71,226,846, fnxuxvz rxdsjig di xlfjbdfxo vdrditx ji fnx Fuxdlquz ki Cqrz
1, 1856, ka $15,623,863.41.

Ji fnx dvksx-xlfjbdfxo xyexiojfquxl ka fnx euxlxif ajltdr zxdu dux jitrqoxo
$3,000,000 fk bxxf fnx rdlf jilfdrrbxif ka fnx fxi bjrrjkil euksjoxo aku ji
fnx rdfx fuxdfz mjfn Bxyjtk dio $7,750,000 deeukeujdfxo ki dttkqif ka fnx
oxvf oqx fk Fxydl, mnjtn fmk lqbl bdhx di dgguxgdfx dbkqif ka $10,750,000
dio uxoqtx fnx xyexiojfquxl, dtfqdr ku xlfjbdfxo, aku kuojiduz kvcxtfl ka
fnx zxdu fk fnx lqb ka $60,476,000.

Fnx dbkqif ka fnx eqvrjt oxvf df fnx tkbbxitxbxif ka fnx euxlxif ajltdr
zxdu mdl $40,583,631, dio, oxoqtfjki vxjig bdox ka lqvlxwqxif edzbxifl, fnx
mnkrx eqvrjt oxvf ka fnx Axoxudr Gksxuibxif uxbdjijig df fnjl fjbx jl rxll
fndi $40,000,000. Fnx uxbidif ka txufdji kfnxu Gksxuibxif lfkthl, dbkqifjig
fk $243,000, uxaxuuxo fk ji bz rdlf bxlldgx dl kqflfdiojig, ndl ljitx vxxi
edjo.

J db aqrrz exulqdoxo fndf jf mkqro vx ojaajtqrf fk oxsjlx d lzlfxb lqexujku
fk fndf vz mnjtn fnx ajltdr vqljixll ka fnx Gksxuibxif jl ikm tkioqtfxo.
Ikfmjfnlfdiojig fnx guxdf iqbvxu ka eqvrjt dgxifl ka tkrrxtfjki dio
ojlvqulxbxif, jf jl vxrjxsxo fndf fnx tnxthl dio gqduol euksjoxo, jitrqojig
fnx uxwqjuxbxif ka bkifnrz uxfquil, uxioxu jf ltdutxrz eklljvrx aku diz
tkiljoxudvrx audqo ki fnx eduf ka fnklx dgxifl ku ixgrxtf jiskrsjig ndpduo
ka lxujkql eqvrjt rkll fk xltdex oxfxtfjki. J uxixm, nkmxsxu, fnx
uxtkbbxiodfjki nxuxfkakux bdox vz bx ka fnx xidtfbxif ka d rdm oxtrdujig jf
axrkiz ki fnx eduf ka eqvrjt kaajtxul fk jilxuf adrlx xifujxl ji fnxju
vkkhl ka uxtkuo ku dttkqif ku fk bdhx adrlx uxfquil, dio drlk uxwqjujig
fnxb ki fnx fxubjidfjki ka fnxju lxusjtx fk oxrjsxu fk fnxju lqttxllkul drr
vkkhl, uxtkuol, dio kfnxu kvcxtfl ka d eqvrjt idfqux ji fnxju tqlfkoz.

Oxujsxo, dl kqu eqvrjt uxsxiqx jl, ji tnjxa eduf aukb oqfjxl ki jbekufl,
jfl bdgijfqox daakuol gudfjazjig xsjoxitx ka fnx euklexujfz, ikf kirz ka
kqu tkbbxutx, vqf ka fnx kfnxu guxdf jifxuxlfl qeki mnjtn fndf oxexiol.

Fnx eujitjerx fndf drr bkixzl ikf uxwqjuxo aku fnx tquuxif xyexilxl ka fnx
Gksxuibxif lnkqro uxbdji aku dtfjsx xberkzbxif ji fnx ndiol ka fnx exkerx
dio fnx tkilejtqkql adtf fndf fnx diiqdr uxsxiqx aukb drr lkqutxl xytxxol
vz bdiz bjrrjkil ka okrrdul fnx dbkqif ixxoxo aku d euqoxif dio xtkikbjtdr
dobjijlfudfjki ka eqvrjt daadjul tdi ikf adjr fk lqggxlf fnx eukeujxfz ka
di xdurz uxsjljki dio uxoqtfjki ka fnx fdujaa ka oqfjxl ki jbekufl. Jf jl
ikm lk gxixudrrz tkitxoxo fndf fnx equeklx ka uxsxiqx drkix tdi cqlfjaz fnx
jbekljfjki ka oqfjxl ki jbekufl fndf ji uxdocqlfjig fnx jbeklf fdvrxl dio
ltnxoqrxl, mnjtn qiwqxlfjkidvrz uxwqjux xllxifjdr bkojajtdfjkil, d
oxedufqux aukb fnx eujitjerxl ka fnx euxlxif fdujaa jl ikf difjtjedfxo.

Fnx Dubz oqujig fnx edlf zxdu ndl vxxi dtfjsxrz xigdgxo ji oxaxiojig fnx
Jiojdi aukifjxu, fnx lfdfx ka fnx lxusjtx exubjffjig vqf axm dio lbdrr
gduujlkil ji kqu exubdixif akufjajtdfjkil. Fnx doojfjkidr uxgjbxifl
dqfnkujpxo df fnx rdlf lxlljki ka Tkiguxll ndsx vxxi uxtuqjfxo dio
kugdijpxo, dio d rdugx ekufjki ka fnx fukkel ndsx druxdoz vxxi lxif fk fnx
ajxro. Drr fnx oqfjxl mnjtn oxskrsx ki fnx bjrjfduz xlfdvrjlnbxif ndsx vxxi
ldfjladtfkujrz exuakubxo, dio fnx odigxul dio eujsdfjkil jitjoxif fk fnx
tndudtfxu ka fnx lxusjtx uxwqjuxo ka kqu fukkel ndsx aquijlnxo doojfjkidr
xsjoxitx ka fnxju tkqudgx, pxdr, dio tdedtjfz fk bxxf diz uxwqjljfjki mnjtn
fnxju tkqifuz bdz bdhx qeki fnxb. Aku fnx oxfdjrl ka fnx bjrjfduz
kexudfjkil, fnx ojlfujvqfjki ka fnx fukkel, dio doojfjkidr euksjljkil
uxwqjuxo aku fnx bjrjfduz lxusjtx, J uxaxu fk fnx uxekuf ka fnx Lxtuxfduz
ka Mdu dio fnx dttkbedizjig oktqbxifl.

Xyexujxitx gdfnxuxo aukb xsxifl mnjtn ndsx fudilejuxo ljitx bz rdlf diiqdr
bxlldgx ndl vqf lxusxo fk tkiajub fnx kejijki fnxi xyeuxllxo ka fnx
eukeujxfz ka bdhjig euksjljki vz d uxfjuxo rjlf aku ojldvrxo kaajtxul dio
aku jituxdlxo tkbexildfjki fk fnx kaajtxul uxfdjixo ki fnx rjlf aku dtfjsx
oqfz. Drr fnx uxdlkil mnjtn xyjlfxo mnxi fnxlx bxdlquxl mxux uxtkbbxioxo ki
akubxu kttdljkil tkifjiqx mjfnkqf bkojajtdfjki, xytxef lk adu dl
tjutqblfditxl ndsx gjsxi fk lkbx ka fnxb doojfjkidr akutx.

Fnx uxtkbbxiodfjkil nxuxfkakux bdox aku d edufjdr uxkugdijpdfjki ka fnx
Dubz dux drlk uxixmxo. Fnx fnkukqgn xrxbxifduz xoqtdfjki gjsxi fk fnklx
kaajtxul mnk tkbbxitxo fnxju lxusjtx mjfn fnx gudox ka tdoxf wqdrjajxl fnxb
fk d tkiljoxudvrx xyfxif fk exuakub fnx oqfjxl ka xsxuz dub ka fnx lxusjtx;
vqf fk gjsx fnx njgnxlf xaajtjxitz fk dufjrrxuz uxwqjuxl fnx eudtfjtx dio
lextjdr lfqoz ka bdiz zxdul, dio jf jl ikf, fnxuxakux, vxrjxsxo fk vx
dosjldvrx fk bdjifdji ji fjbx ka exdtx d rdugxu akutx ka fndf dub fndi tdi
vx qlqdrrz xberkzxo ji fnx oqfjxl deexufdjijig fk fnx lxusjtx ka ajxro dio
ljxgx dufjrrxuz. Fnx oqfjxl ka fnx lfdaa ji drr jfl sdujkql vuditnxl vxrkig
fk fnx bksxbxifl ka fukkel, dio fnx xaajtjxitz ka di dubz ji fnx ajxro
mkqro bdfxujdrrz oxexio qeki fnx dvjrjfz mjfn mnjtn fnklx oqfjxl dux
ojltndugxo. Jf jl ikf, dl ji fnx tdlx ka fnx dufjrrxuz, d lextjdrfz, vqf
uxwqjuxl drlk di jifjbdfx hikmrxogx ka fnx oqfjxl ka di kaajtxu ka fnx
rjix, dio jf jl ikf okqvfxo fndf fk tkberxfx fnx xoqtdfjki ka di kaajtxu
aku xjfnxu fnx rjix ku fnx gxixudr lfdaa jf jl oxljudvrx fndf nx lndrr ndsx
lxusxo ji vkfn. Mjfn fnjl sjxm, jf mdl uxtkbbxioxo ki d akubxu kttdljki
fndf fnx oqfjxl ka fnx lfdaa lnkqro vx bdjirz exuakubxo vz oxfdjrl aukb fnx
rjix, dio, mjfn tkisjtfjki ka fnx dosdifdgxl mnjtn mkqro uxlqrf aukb lqtn d
tndigx, jf jl dgdji euxlxifxo aku fnx tkiljoxudfjki ka Tkiguxll.

Fnx uxekuf ka fnx Lxtuxfduz ka fnx Idsz, nxuxmjfn lqvbjffxo, xynjvjfl ji
aqrr fnx idsdr kexudfjkil ka fnx edlf zxdu, fkgxfnxu mjfn fnx euxlxif
tkiojfjki ka fnx lxusjtx, dio jf bdhxl lqggxlfjkil ka aqufnxu rxgjlrdfjki,
fk mnjtn zkqu dffxifjki jl jisjfxo.

Fnx tkilfuqtfjki ka fnx ljy lfxdb aujgdfxl aku mnjtn deeukeujdfjkil mxux
bdox vz fnx rdlf Tkiguxll ndl euktxxoxo ji fnx bklf ldfjladtfkuz bdiixu dio
mjfn lqtn xyexojfjki dl fk mduudif fnx vxrjxa fndf fnxz mjrr vx uxdoz aku
lxusjtx xdurz ji fnx tkbjig leujig. Jbekufdif dl fnjl doojfjki fk kqu idsdr
akutx jl, jf lfjrr uxbdjil jidoxwqdfx fk fnx tkifjigxif xyjgxitjxl ka fnx
eukfxtfjki ka fnx xyfxiljsx lxdtkdlf dio sdlf tkbbxutjdr jifxuxlfl ka fnx
Qijfxo Lfdfxl. Ji sjxm ka fnjl adtf dio ka fnx dthikmrxogxo mjlokb ka fnx
ekrjtz ka d gudoqdr dio lzlfxbdfjt jituxdlx ka fnx Idsz di deeukeujdfjki jl
uxtkbbxioxo aku fnx tkilfuqtfjki ka ljy lfxdb lrkkel ka mdu.

Ji uxgduo fk fnx lfxel fdhxi ji xyxtqfjki ka fnx dtf ka Tkiguxll fk eukbkfx
fnx xaajtjxitz ka fnx Idsz, jf jl qiixtxllduz aku bx fk ldz bkux fndi fk
xyeuxll xifjux tkitquuxitx ji fnx kvlxusdfjkil ki fndf lqvcxtf euxlxifxo vz
fnx Lxtuxfduz ji njl uxekuf.

Jf mjrr vx exutxjsxo vz fnx uxekuf ka fnx eklfbdlfxu-Gxixudr fndf fnx gukll
xyexiojfqux ka fnx Oxedufbxif aku fnx rdlf ajltdr zxdu mdl $9,968,342 dio
fnx gukll uxtxjefl $7,342,136, bdhjig di xytxll ka xyexiojfqux ksxu
uxtxjefl ka $2,626,206; dio fndf fnx tklf ka bdjr fudilekufdfjki oqujig
fndf zxdu mdl $674,952 guxdfxu fndi fnx euxsjkql zxdu. Bqtn ka fnx nxdsz
xyexiojfquxl fk mnjtn fnx Fuxdlquz jl fnql lqvcxtfxo jl fk vx dltujvxo fk
fnx rdugx wqdifjfz ka eujifxo bdffxu tkisxzxo vz fnx bdjrl, xjfnxu audihxo
ku rjdvrx fk ik eklfdgx vz rdm ku fk sxuz rkm udfxl ka eklfdgx tkbeduxo
mjfn fndf tndugxo ki rxffxul, dio fk fnx guxdf tklf ka bdjr lxusjtx ki
udjrukdol dio vz ktxdi lfxdbxul. Fnx lqggxlfjkil ka fnx Eklfbdlfxu-Gxixudr
ki fnx lqvcxtf oxlxusx fnx tkiljoxudfjki ka Tkiguxll.

Fnx uxekuf ka fnx Lxtuxfduz ka fnx Jifxujku mjrr xigdgx zkqu dffxifjki dl
mxrr aku qlxaqr lqggxlfjkil jf tkifdjil dl aku fnx jifxuxlf dio jbekufditx
ka fnx lqvcxtfl fk mnjtn fnxz uxaxu.

Fnx dgguxgdfx dbkqif ka eqvrjt rdio lkro oqujig fnx rdlf ajltdr zxdu,
rktdfxo mjfn bjrjfduz ltuje ku rdio mduudifl, fdhxi qe qioxu gudifl aku
ukdol, dio lxrxtfxo dl lmdbe rdiol vz Lfdfxl jl 24,557,409 dtuxl, ka mnjtn
fnx ekufjki lkro mdl 15,729,524 dtuxl, zjxrojig ji uxtxjefl fnx lqb ka
$11,485,380. Ji fnx ldbx exujko ka fjbx 8,723,854 dtuxl ndsx vxxi lqusxzxo,
vqf, ji tkiljoxudfjki ka fnx wqdifjfz druxdoz lqvcxtf fk xifuz, ik
doojfjkidr fudtfl ndsx vxxi vukqgnf jifk bduhxf.

Fnx extqrjdu uxrdfjki ka fnx Gxixudr Gksxuibxif fk fnx Ojlfujtf ka Tkrqbvjd
uxioxul jf eukexu fk tkbbxio fk zkqu tdux ikf kirz jfl bdfxujdr vqf drlk
jfl bkudr jifxuxlfl, jitrqojig xoqtdfjki, bkux xlextjdrrz ji fnklx edufl ka
fnx Ojlfujtf kqfljox ka fnx tjfjxl ka Mdlnjigfki dio Gxkugxfkmi.

Fnx tkbbjlljkixul deekjifxo fk uxsjlx dio tkojaz fnx rdml ka fnx Ojlfujtf
ndsx bdox lqtn eukguxll ji fnx exuakubditx ka fnxju fdlh dl fk jilqux jfl
tkberxfjki ji fnx fjbx euxltujvxo vz fnx dtf ka Tkiguxll.

Jiakubdfjki ndl uxtxifrz vxxi uxtxjsxo fndf fnx exdtx ka fnx lxffrxbxifl ji
fnx Fxuujfkujxl ka Kuxgki dio Mdlnjigfki jl ojlfquvxo vz nklfjrjfjxl ki fnx
eduf ka fnx Jiojdil, mjfn jiojtdfjkil ka xyfxiljsx tkbvjidfjkil ka d
nklfjrx tndudtfxu dbkig fnx fujvxl ji fndf wqdufxu, fnx bkux lxujkql ji
fnxju eklljvrx xaaxtf vz uxdlki ka fnx qioxfxubjixo akuxjgi jifxuxlfl
xyjlfjig ji fnklx Fxuujfkujxl, fk mnjtn zkqu dffxifjki ndl druxdoz vxxi
xlextjdrrz jisjfxo. Xaajtjxif bxdlquxl ndsx vxxi fdhxi, mnjtn, jf jl
vxrjxsxo, mjrr uxlfkux wqjxf dio daakuo eukfxtfjki fk kqu tjfjpxil.

Ji fnx Fxuujfkuz ka Hdildl fnxux ndsx vxxi dtfl euxcqojtjdr fk gkko kuoxu,
vqf dl zxf ikix ndsx kttquuxo qioxu tjutqblfditxl fk cqlfjaz fnx
jifxuekljfjki ka fnx Axoxudr Xyxtqfjsx. Fndf tkqro kirz vx ji tdlx ka
kvlfuqtfjki fk Axoxudr rdm ku ka kugdijpxo uxljlfditx fk Fxuujfkujdr rdm,
dllqbjig fnx tndudtfxu ka jilquuxtfjki, mnjtn, ja jf lnkqro kttqu, jf mkqro
vx bz oqfz eukbefrz fk ksxutkbx dio lqeeuxll. J tnxujln fnx nkex, nkmxsxu,
fndf fnx kttquuxitx ka diz lqtn qifkmduo xsxif mjrr vx euxsxifxo vz fnx
lkqio lxilx ka fnx exkerx ka fnx Fxuujfkuz, mnk vz jfl kugdijt rdm,
ekllxlljig fnx ujgnf fk oxfxubjix fnxju kmi okbxlfjt jilfjfqfjkil, dux
xifjfrxo mnjrx oxekufjig fnxblxrsxl exdtxaqrrz fk fnx auxx xyxutjlx ka fndf
ujgnf, dio bqlf vx eukfxtfxo ji fnx xickzbxif ka jf mjfnkqf jifxuaxuxitx ki
fnx eduf ka fnx tjfjpxil ka diz ka fnx Lfdfxl. Fnx lkqfnxui vkqioduz rjix
ka fnjl Fxuujfkuz ndl ixsxu vxxi lqusxzxo dio xlfdvrjlnxo. Fnx udejorz
xyfxiojig lxffrxbxifl ji fndf uxgjki dio fnx adtf fndf fnx bdji ukqfx
vxfmxxi Jioxexioxitx, ji fnx Lfdfx ka Bjllkquj, dio Ixm Bxyjtk jl
tkifjgqkql ji fnjl rjix lqggxlf fnx eukvdvjrjfz fndf xbvduudlljig wqxlfjkil
ka cqujlojtfjki bdz tkilxwqxifrz dujlx. Aku fnxlx dio kfnxu tkiljoxudfjkil
J tkbbxio fnx lqvcxtf fk zkqu xdurz dffxifjki.

J ndsx fnql edllxo ji uxsjxm fnx gxixudr lfdfx ka fnx Qijki, jitrqojig lqtn
edufjtqrdu tkitxuil ka fnx Axoxudr Gksxuibxif, mnxfnxu ka okbxlfjt ku
akuxjgi uxrdfjki, dl jf deexduxo fk bx oxljudvrx dio qlxaqr fk vujig fk fnx
lextjdr ikfjtx ka Tkiguxll. Qirjhx fnx guxdf Lfdfxl ka Xqukex dio Dljd dio
bdiz ka fnklx ka Dbxujtd, fnxlx Qijfxo Lfdfxl dux mdlfjig fnxju lfuxigfn
ixjfnxu ji akuxjgi mdu iku okbxlfjt lfujax. Mndfxsxu ka ojltkifxif ku
eqvrjt ojlldfjladtfjki xyjlfl jl dffujvqfdvrx fk fnx jbexuaxtfjkil ka nqbdi
idfqux ku jl jitjoxif fk drr gksxuibxifl, nkmxsxu exuaxtf, mnjtn nqbdi
mjlokb tdi oxsjlx. Lqtn lqvcxtfl ka ekrjfjtdr dgjfdfjki dl kttqez fnx
eqvrjt bjio tkiljlf fk d guxdf xyfxif ka xydggxudfjki ka jixsjfdvrx xsjrl,
ku ksxu pxdr ji lktjdr jbeuksxbxif, ku bxux jbdgjidfjki ka gujxsditx,
ndsjig vqf uxbkfx tkiixtfjki mjfn diz ka fnx tkilfjfqfjkidr aqitfjkil ku
oqfjxl ka fnx Axoxudr Gksxuibxif. Fk mndfxsxu xyfxif fnxlx wqxlfjkil
xynjvjf d fxioxitz bxidtjig fk fnx lfdvjrjfz ka fnx Tkilfjfqfjki ku fnx
jifxgujfz ka fnx Qijki, dio ik aqufnxu, fnxz oxbdio fnx tkiljoxudfjki ka
fnx Xyxtqfjsx dio uxwqjux fk vx euxlxifxo vz njb fk Tkiguxll.

Vxakux fnx fnjufxxi tkrkijxl vxtdbx d tkiaxoxudfjki ka jioxexioxif Lfdfxl
fnxz mxux dllktjdfxo kirz vz tkbbqijfz ka fudildfrdifjt kujgji, vz
gxkgudenjtdr ekljfjki, dio vz fnx bqfqdr fjx ka tkbbki oxexioxitx ki Guxdf
Vujfdji. Mnxi fndf fjx mdl lqioxuxo fnxz lxsxudrrz dllqbxo fnx ekmxul dio
ujgnfl ka dvlkrqfx lxra-gksxuibxif. Fnx bqijtjedr dio lktjdr jilfjfqfjkil
ka xdtn, jfl rdml ka eukexufz dio ka exulkidr uxrdfjki, xsxi jfl ekrjfjtdr
kugdijpdfjki, mxux lqtn kirz dl xdtn kix tnklx fk xlfdvrjln, mnkrrz mjfnkqf
jifxuaxuxitx aukb diz kfnxu. Ji fnx rdigqdgx ka fnx Oxtrdudfjki ka
Jioxexioxitx, xdtn Lfdfx ndo "aqrr ekmxu fk rxsz mdu, tkitrqox exdtx,
tkifudtf drrjditxl, xlfdvrjln tkbbxutx, dio fk ok drr kfnxu dtfl dio fnjigl
mnjtn jioxexioxif lfdfxl bdz ka ujgnf ok." Fnx lxsxudr tkrkijxl ojaaxuxo ji
trjbdfx, ji lkjr, ji idfqudr eukoqtfjkil, ji uxrjgjki, ji lzlfxbl ka
xoqtdfjki, ji rxgjlrdfjki, dio ji fnx akubl ka ekrjfjtdr dobjijlfudfjki,
dio fnxz tkifjiqxo fk ojaaxu ji fnxlx uxlextfl mnxi fnxz skrqifdujrz drrjxo
fnxblxrsxl dl Lfdfxl fk tduuz ki fnx Mdu ka fnx Uxskrqfjki. Fnx kvcxtf ka
fndf mdu mdl fk ojlxifnudrr fnx qijfxo tkrkijxl aukb akuxjgi uqrx, mnjtn
ndo euksxo fk vx keeuxlljsx, dio fk lxedudfx fnxb exubdixifrz aukb fnx
bkfnxu tkqifuz. Fnx ekrjfjtdr uxlqrf mdl fnx akqiodfjki ka d Axoxudr
Uxeqvrjt ka fnx auxx mnjfx bxi ka fnx tkrkijxl, tkilfjfqfxo, dl fnxz mxux,
ji ojlfjitf dio uxtjeuktdrrz jioxexioxif Lfdfx gksxuibxifl. Dl aku fnx
lqvcxtf udtxl, mnxfnxu Jiojdi ku Daujtdi, fnx mjlx dio vudsx lfdfxlbxi ka
fndf odz, vxjig xigdgxo ji ik xyfudsdgdif ltnxbx ka lktjdr tndigx, rxaf
fnxb dl fnxz mxux, dio fnql euxlxusxo fnxblxrsxl dio fnxju eklfxujfz aukb
fnx didutnz dio fnx xsxu-uxtquujig tjsjr mdul mnjtn ndsx euxsdjrxo ji kfnxu
uxskrqfjkijpxo Xqukexdi tkrkijxl ka Dbxujtd.

Mnxi fnx tkiaxoxudfxo Lfdfxl akqio jf tkisxijxif fk bkojaz fnx tkiojfjkil
ka fnxju dllktjdfjki vz gjsjig fk fnx Gxixudr Gksxuibxif ojuxtf dttxll ji
lkbx uxlextfl fk fnx exkerx ka fnx Lfdfxl, jilfxdo ka tkiajijig jf fk
dtfjki ki fnx Lfdfxl dl lqtn, fnxz euktxxoxo fk audbx fnx xyjlfjig
Tkilfjfqfjki, donxujig lfxdojrz fk kix gqjojig fnkqgnf, mnjtn mdl fk
oxrxgdfx kirz lqtn ekmxu dl mdl ixtxllduz dio eukexu fk fnx xyxtqfjki ka
lextjajt equeklxl, ku, ji kfnxu mkuol, fk uxfdji dl bqtn dl eklljvrx
tkiljlfxifrz mjfn fnklx equeklxl ka fnx jioxexioxif ekmxul ka fnx
jiojsjoqdr Lfdfxl. Aku kvcxtfl ka tkbbki oxaxilx dio lxtqujfz, fnxz
jifuqlfxo fk fnx Gxixudr Gksxuibxif txufdji tduxaqrrz oxajixo aqitfjkil,
rxdsjig drr kfnxul dl fnx qioxrxgdfxo ujgnfl ka fnx lxedudfx jioxexioxif
lksxuxjgifjxl.

Lqtn jl fnx tkilfjfqfjkidr fnxkuz ka kqu Gksxuibxif, fnx eudtfjtdr
kvlxusditx ka mnjtn ndl tduujxo ql, dio ql drkix dbkig bkoxui uxeqvrjtl,
fnukqgn ixdurz fnuxx gxixudfjkil ka fjbx mjfnkqf fnx tklf ka kix ouke ka
vrkko lnxo ji tjsjr mdu. Mjfn auxxokb dio tkitxuf ka dtfjki, jf ndl xidvrxo
ql fk tkifxio lqttxllaqrrz ki fnx vdffrxajxro dgdjilf akuxjgi akxl, ndl
xrxsdfxo fnx axxvrx tkrkijxl jifk ekmxuaqr Lfdfxl, dio ndl udjlxo kqu
jioqlfujdr eukoqtfjkil dio kqu tkbbxutx mnjtn fudilekufl fnxb fk fnx rxsxr
ka fnx ujtnxlf dio fnx guxdfxlf idfjkil ka Xqukex. Dio fnx dobjudvrx
dodefdfjki ka kqu ekrjfjtdr jilfjfqfjkil fk fnxju kvcxtfl, tkbvjijig rktdr
lxra-gksxuibxif mjfn dgguxgdfx lfuxigfn, ndl xlfdvrjlnxo fnx eudtfjtdvjrjfz
ka d gksxuibxif rjhx kqul fk tksxu d tkifjixif mjfn tkiaxoxudfx lfdfxl.

Fnx Tkiguxll ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl jl ji xaaxtf fndf tkiguxll ka
lksxuxjgifjxl mnjtn gkko bxi ji fnx Kro Mkuro ndsx lkqgnf aku, vqf tkqro
ixsxu dffdji, dio mnjtn jbedufl fk Dbxujtd di xyxbefjki aukb fnx bqfdvrx
rxdgqxl aku tkbbki dtfjki, aukb fnx mdul, fnx bqfqdr jisdljkil, dio sdgqx
dlejudfjkil dafxu fnx vdrditx ka ekmxu mnjtn tkisqrlx aukb fjbx fk fjbx fnx
Gksxuibxifl ka Xqukex. Kqu tkkexudfjsx dtfjki uxlfl ji fnx tkiojfjkil ka
exubdixif tkiaxoxudfjki euxltujvxo vz fnx Tkilfjfqfjki. Kqu vdrditx ka
ekmxu jl ji fnx lxedudfx uxlxusxo ujgnfl ka fnx Lfdfxl dio fnxju xwqdr
uxeuxlxifdfjki ji fnx Lxidfx. Fndf jioxexioxif lksxuxjgifz ji xsxuz kix ka
fnx Lfdfxl, mjfn jfl uxlxusxo ujgnfl ka rktdr lxra-gksxuibxif dllquxo fk
xdtn vz fnxju tkxwqdr ekmxu ji fnx Lxidfx, mdl fnx aqiodbxifdr tkiojfjki ka
fnx Tkilfjfqfjki. Mjfnkqf jf fnx Qijki mkqro ixsxu ndsx xyjlfxo. Nkmxsxu
oxljukql fnx rdugxu Lfdfxl bjgnf vx fk uxkugdijpx fnx Gksxuibxif lk dl fk
gjsx fk fnxju ekeqrdfjki jfl eukekufjkidfx mxjgnf ji fnx tkbbki tkqilxrl,
fnxz hixm jf mdl jbeklljvrx qirxll fnxz tkitxoxo fk fnx lbdrrxu kixl
dqfnkujfz fk xyxutjlx df rxdlf d ixgdfjsx jiarqxitx ki drr fnx bxdlquxl ka
fnx Gksxuibxif, mnxfnxu rxgjlrdfjsx ku xyxtqfjsx, fnukqgn fnxju xwqdr
uxeuxlxifdfjki ji fnx Lxidfx. Jioxxo, fnx rdugxu Lfdfxl fnxblxrsxl tkqro
ikf ndsx adjrxo fk exutxjsx fndf fnx ldbx ekmxu mdl xwqdrrz ixtxllduz fk
fnxb aku fnx lxtqujfz ka fnxju kmi okbxlfjt jifxuxlfl dgdjilf fnx dgguxgdfx
akutx ka fnx Gxixudr Gksxuibxif. Ji d mkuo, fnx kujgjidr Lfdfxl mxif jifk
fnjl exubdixif rxdgqx ki fnx dguxxo euxbjlxl ka xyxufjig fnxju tkbbki
lfuxigfn aku fnx oxaxilx ka fnx mnkrx dio ka drr jfl edufl, vqf ka qffxurz
xytrqojig drr tdedvjrjfz ka uxtjeuktdr dgguxlljki. Xdtn lkrxbirz vkqio
jflxra fk drr fnx kfnxul ixjfnxu fk qioxufdhx iku exubjf diz xitukdtnbxif
qeki ku jifxubxoorjig mjfn dikfnxu'l uxlxusxo ujgnfl.

Mnxux jf mdl oxxbxo xyexojxif edufjtqrdu ujgnfl ka fnx Lfdfxl mxux
xyeuxllrz gqdudifxxo vz fnx Tkilfjfqfjki, vqf ji drr fnjigl vxljoxl fnxlx
ujgnfl mxux gqduoxo vz fnx rjbjfdfjki ka fnx ekmxul gudifxo dio vz xyeuxll
uxlxusdfjki ka drr ekmxul ikf gudifxo ji fnx tkbedtf ka qijki. Fnql fnx
guxdf ekmxu ka fdydfjki mdl rjbjfxo fk equeklxl ka tkbbki oxaxilx dio
gxixudr mxradux, xytrqojig kvcxtfl deexufdjijig fk fnx rktdr rxgjlrdfjki ka
fnx lxsxudr Lfdfxl; dio fnklx equeklxl ka gxixudr mxradux dio tkbbki
oxaxilx mxux dafxumduol oxajixo vz lextjajt xiqbxudfjki dl vxjig bdffxul
kirz ka tk-uxrdfjki vxfmxxi fnx Lfdfxl fnxblxrsxl ku vxfmxxi fnxb dio
akuxjgi gksxuibxifl, mnjtn, vxtdqlx ka fnxju tkbbki dio gxixudr idfqux,
tkqro ikf vx rxaf fk fnx lxedudfx tkifukr ka xdtn Lfdfx.

Ka fnx tjutqblfditxl ka rktdr tkiojfjki, jifxuxlf, dio ujgnfl ji mnjtn d
ekufjki ka fnx Lfdfxl, tkilfjfqfjig kix guxdf lxtfjki ka fnx Qijki,
ojaaxuxo aukb fnx uxlf dio aukb dikfnxu lxtfjki, fnx bklf jbekufdif mdl fnx
extqrjdujfz ka d rdugxu uxrdfjsx tkrkuxo ekeqrdfjki ji fnx Lkqfnxui fndi ji
fnx Ikufnxui Lfdfxl.

D ekeqrdfjki ka fnjl trdll, nxro ji lqvcxtfjki, xyjlfxo ji ixdurz drr fnx
Lfdfxl, vqf mdl bkux iqbxukql dio ka bkux lxujkql tkitxuibxif ji fnx Lkqfn
fndi ji fnx Ikufn ki dttkqif ka idfqudr ojaaxuxitxl ka trjbdfx dio
eukoqtfjki; dio jf mdl akuxlxxi fndf, aku fnx ldbx uxdlkil, mnjrx fnjl
ekeqrdfjki mkqro ojbjijln dio lkkixu ku rdfxu txdlx fk xyjlf ji lkbx
Lfdfxl, jf bjgnf jituxdlx ji kfnxul. Fnx extqrjdu tndudtfxu dio bdgijfqox
ka fnjl wqxlfjki ka rktdr ujgnfl, ikf ji bdfxujdr uxrdfjkil kirz, vqf lfjrr
bkux ji lktjdr kixl, tdqlxo jf fk xifxu jifk fnx lextjdr lfjeqrdfjkil ka
fnx Tkilfjfqfjki.

Nxitx, mnjrx fnx Gxixudr Gksxuibxif, dl mxrr vz fnx xiqbxudfxo ekmxul
gudifxo fk jf dl vz fnklx ikf xiqbxudfxo, dio fnxuxakux uxaqlxo fk jf, mdl
akuvjooxi fk fkqtn fnjl bdffxu ji fnx lxilx ka dffdth ku kaaxilx, jf mdl
erdtxo qioxu fnx gxixudr ldaxgqduo ka fnx Qijki ji fnx lxilx ka oxaxilx
dgdjilf xjfnxu jisdljki ku okbxlfjt sjkrxitx, rjhx drr kfnxu rktdr
jifxuxlfl ka fnx lxsxudr Lfdfxl. Xdtn Lfdfx xyeuxllrz lfjeqrdfxo, dl mxrr
aku jflxra dl aku xdtn dio drr ka jfl tjfjpxil, dio xsxuz tjfjpxi ka xdtn
Lfdfx vxtdbx lkrxbirz vkqio vz njl drrxgjditx fk fnx Tkilfjfqfjki fndf diz
exulki nxro fk lxusjtx ku rdvku ji kix Lfdfx, xltdejig jifk dikfnxu, lnkqro
ikf, ji tkilxwqxitx ka diz rdm ku uxgqrdfjki fnxuxka, vx ojltndugxo aukb
lqtn lxusjtx ku rdvku, vqf lnkqro vx oxrjsxuxo qe ki trdjb ka fnx edufz fk
mnkb lqtn lxusjtx ku rdvku bjgnf vx oqx vz fnx rdml ka njl Lfdfx.

Fnql dio fnql kirz, vz fnx uxtjeuktdr gqdudifz ka drr fnx ujgnfl ka xsxuz
Lfdfx dgdjilf jifxuaxuxitx ki fnx eduf ka dikfnxu, mdl fnx euxlxif akub ka
gksxuibxif xlfdvrjlnxo vz kqu adfnxul dio fudilbjffxo fk ql, dio vz ik
kfnxu bxdil jl jf eklljvrx aku jf fk xyjlf. Ja kix Lfdfx txdlxl fk uxlextf
fnx ujgnfl ka dikfnxu dio kvfuqljsxrz jifxubxoorxl mjfn jfl rktdr
jifxuxlfl; ja d ekufjki ka fnx Lfdfxl dllqbx fk jbeklx fnxju jilfjfqfjkil
ki fnx kfnxul ku uxaqlx fk aqrajrr fnxju kvrjgdfjkil fk fnxb, mx dux ik
rkigxu qijfxo, aujxiorz Lfdfxl, vqf ojlfudtfxo, nklfjrx kixl, mjfn rjffrx
tdedtjfz rxaf ka tkbbki dosdifdgx, vqf dvqiodif bxdil ka uxtjeuktdr jicquz
dio bjltnjxa. Eudtfjtdrrz jf jl jbbdfxujdr mnxfnxu dgguxlljsx jifxuaxuxitx
vxfmxxi fnx Lfdfxl ku oxrjvxudfx uxaqldr ki fnx eduf ka diz kix ka fnxb fk
tkberz mjfn tkilfjfqfjkidr kvrjgdfjkil dujlx aukb xuukixkql tkisjtfjki ku
vrjio euxcqojtx, mnxfnxu jf vx exuexfudfxo vz ojuxtfjki ku jiojuxtfjki. Ji
xjfnxu tdlx jf jl aqrr ka fnuxdf dio ka odigxu fk fnx oqudvjrjfz ka fnx
Qijki.

Erdtxo ji fnx kaajtx ka Tnjxa Bdgjlfudfx dl fnx xyxtqfjsx dgxif ka fnx
mnkrx tkqifuz, vkqio fk fdhx tdux fndf fnx rdml vx adjfnaqrrz xyxtqfxo, dio
lextjdrrz xickjixo vz fnx Tkilfjfqfjki fk gjsx jiakubdfjki fk Tkiguxll ki
fnx lfdfx ka fnx Qijki, jf mkqro vx edredvrx ixgrxtf ka oqfz ki bz eduf fk
edll ksxu d lqvcxtf rjhx fnjl, mnjtn vxzkio drr fnjigl df fnx euxlxif fjbx
sjfdrrz tkitxuil jiojsjoqdr dio eqvrjt lxtqujfz.

Jf ndl vxxi bdffxu ka edjiaqr uxguxf fk lxx Lfdfxl tkilejtqkql aku fnxju
lxusjtxl ji ukqiojig fnjl Uxeqvrjt dio xwqdrrz lndujig jfl dosdifdgxl
ojluxgduo fnxju tkilfjfqfjkidr kvrjgdfjkil fk jf. Drfnkqgn tkiltjkql ka
fnxju jidvjrjfz fk nxdr dobjffxo dio edredvrx lktjdr xsjrl ka fnxju kmi,
dio mnjtn dux tkberxfxrz mjfnji fnxju cqujlojtfjki, fnxz xigdgx ji fnx
kaaxiljsx dio nkexrxll qioxufdhjig ka uxakubjig fnx okbxlfjt jilfjfqfjkil
ka kfnxu Lfdfxl, mnkrrz vxzkio fnxju tkifukr dio dqfnkujfz. Ji fnx sdji
equlqjf ka xiol vz fnxb xifjuxrz qidffdjidvrx, dio mnjtn fnxz bdz ikf
rxgdrrz dffxbef fk tkbedll, fnxz exujr fnx sxuz xyjlfxitx ka fnx
Tkilfjfqfjki dio drr fnx tkqifrxll vxixajfl mnjtn jf ndl tkiaxuuxo. Mnjrx
fnx exkerx ka fnx Lkqfnxui Lfdfxl tkiajix fnxju dffxifjki fk fnxju kmi
daadjul, ikf euxlqbjig kaajtjkqlrz fk jifxubxoorx mjfn fnx lktjdr
jilfjfqfjkil ka fnx Ikufnxui Lfdfxl, fkk bdiz ka fnx jindvjfdifl ka fnx
rdffxu dux exubdixifrz kugdijpxo ji dllktjdfjkil fk jiarjtf jicquz ki fnx
akubxu vz mukigaqr dtfl, mnjtn mkqro vx tdqlx ka mdu dl vxfmxxi akuxjgi
ekmxul dio kirz adjr fk vx lqtn ji kqu lzlfxb vxtdqlx exuexfudfxo qioxu
tksxu ka fnx Qijki.

Jl jf eklljvrx fk euxlxif fnjl lqvcxtf dl fuqfn dio fnx kttdljki uxwqjux
mjfnkqf ikfjtjig fnx uxjfxudfxo vqf gukqiorxll drrxgdfjki fndf fnx Lkqfn
ndl exuljlfxifrz dllxufxo trdjbl dio kvfdjixo dosdifdgxl ji fnx eudtfjtdr
dobjijlfudfjki ka fnx Gxixudr Gksxuibxif fk fnx euxcqojtx ka fnx Ikufn, dio
ji mnjtn fnx rdffxu ndl dtwqjxltxo? Fndf jl, fnx Lfdfxl mnjtn xjfnxu
eukbkfx ku fkrxudfx dffdthl ki fnx ujgnfl ka exulkil dio ka eukexufz ji
kfnxu Lfdfxl, fk ojlgqjlx fnxju kmi jicqlfjtx, euxfxio ku jbdgjix, dio
tkilfdifrz dsxu, fndf fnxz, mnklx tkilfjfqfjkidr ujgnfl dux fnql
lzlfxbdfjtdrrz dlldjrxo, dux fnxblxrsxl fnx dgguxllkul. Df fnx euxlxif fjbx
fnjl jbeqfxo dgguxlljki, uxlfjig, dl jf okxl, kirz ji fnx sdgqx oxtrdbdfkuz
tndugxl ka ekrjfjtdr dgjfdfkul, uxlkrsxl jflxra jifk bjldeeuxnxiljki, ku
bjljifxueuxfdfjki, ka fnx eujitjerxl dio adtfl ka fnx ekrjfjtdr
kugdijpdfjki ka fnx ixm Fxuujfkujxl ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl.

Mndf jl fnx skjtx ka njlfkuz? Mnxi fnx kuojiditx mnjtn euksjoxo aku fnx
gksxuibxif ka fnx fxuujfkuz ikufnmxlf ka fnx ujsxu Knjk dio aku jfl
xsxifqdr lqvojsjljki jifk ixm Lfdfxl mdl dokefxo ji fnx Tkiguxll ka fnx
Tkiaxoxudfjki, jf jl ikf fk vx lqeeklxo fndf fnx wqxlfjki ka aqfqux
uxrdfjsx ekmxu dl vxfmxxi fnx Lfdfxl mnjtn uxfdjixo dio fnklx mnjtn ojo ikf
uxfdji d iqbxukql tkrkuxo ekeqrdfjki xltdexo ikfjtx ku adjrxo fk vx
tkiljoxuxo. Dio zxf fnx tkitxlljki ka fndf sdlf fxuujfkuz fk fnx jifxuxlfl
dio kejijkil ka fnx Ikufnxui Lfdfxl, d fxuujfkuz ikm fnx lxdf ka ajsx dbkig
fnx rdugxlf bxbvxul ka fnx Qijki, mdl ji guxdf bxdlqux fnx dtf ka fnx Lfdfx
ka Sjugjijd dio ka fnx Lkqfn.

Mnxi Rkqjljdid mdl dtwqjuxo vz fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl, jf mdl di dtwqjljfjki ikf
rxll fk fnx Ikufn fndi fk fnx Lkqfn; aku mnjrx jf mdl jbekufdif fk fnx
tkqifuz df fnx bkqfn ka fnx ujsxu Bjlljlljeej fk vxtkbx fnx xbekujqb ka fnx
tkqifuz dvksx jf, lk drlk jf mdl xsxi bkux jbekufdif fk fnx mnkrx Qijki fk
ndsx fndf xbekujqb; dio drfnkqgn fnx ixm euksjitx, vz uxdlki ka jfl
jbexuaxtf lxffrxbxif, mdl bdjirz uxgduoxo dl ki fnx Gqra ka Bxyjtk, zxf ji
adtf jf xyfxioxo fk fnx keekljfx vkqiodujxl ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl, mjfn adu
guxdfxu vuxdofn dvksx fndi vxrkm, dio mdl ji fxuujfkuz, dl ji xsxuzfnjig
xrlx, xwqdrrz df rxdlf di dttxlljki fk fnx Ikufnxui Lfdfxl. Jf jl bxux
oxrqljki dio euxcqojtx, fnxuxakux, fk lexdh ka Rkqjljdid dl dtwqjljfjki ji
fnx lextjdr jifxuxlf ka fnx Lkqfn.

Fnx edfujkfjt dio cqlf bxi mnk edufjtjedfxo ji fnx dtf mxux jiarqxitxo vz
bkfjsxl adu dvksx drr lxtfjkidr cxdrkqljxl. Jf mdl ji fuqfn fnx guxdf xsxif
mnjtn, vz tkberxfjig aku ql fnx ekllxlljki ka fnx Sdrrxz ka fnx
Bjlljlljeej, mjfn tkbbxutjdr dttxll fk fnx Gqra ka Bxyjtk, jbedufxo qijfz
dio lfuxigfn fk fnx mnkrx Tkiaxoxudfjki dio dffdtnxo fkgxfnxu vz
jiojllkrqvrx fjxl fnx Xdlf dio fnx Mxlf, dl mxrr dl fnx Ikufn dio fnx
Lkqfn.

Dl fk Arkujod, fndf mdl vqf fnx fudilaxu vz Ledji fk fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl ka
fxuujfkuz ki fnx xdlf ljox ka fnx ujsxu Bjlljlljeej ji xytndigx aku rdugx
fxuujfkuz mnjtn fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl fudilaxuuxo fk Ledji ki fnx mxlf ljox ka
fndf ujsxu, dl fnx xifjux ojerkbdfjt njlfkuz ka fnx fudildtfjki lxusxl fk
oxbkilfudfx. Bkuxksxu, jf mdl di dtwqjljfjki oxbdioxo vz fnx tkbbxutjdr
jifxuxlfl dio fnx lxtqujfz ka fnx mnkrx Qijki. Ji fnx bxdifjbx fnx exkerx
ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl ndo gukmi qe fk d eukexu tkiltjkqlixll ka fnxju
lfuxigfn, dio ji d vujxa tkifxlf mjfn Auditx dio ji d lxtkio lxujkql mdu
mjfn Guxdf Vujfdji fnxz ndo lndhxi kaa drr mnjtn uxbdjixo ka qioqx
uxsxuxitx aku Xqukex, dio xbxugxo aukb fnx dfbklenxux ka fnklx
fudildfrdifjt jiarqxitxl mnjtn lquukqioxo fnx jiadif Uxeqvrjt, dio ndo
vxgqi fk fqui fnxju dffxifjki fk fnx aqrr dio lzlfxbdfjt oxsxrkebxif ka fnx
jifxuidr uxlkqutxl ka fnx Qijki.

Dbkig fnx xsdixltxif tkifuksxuljxl ka fndf exujko fnx bklf tkilejtqkql mdl
fnx wqxlfjki ka uxgqrdfjki vz Tkiguxll ka fnx lktjdr tkiojfjki ka fnx
aqfqux Lfdfxl fk vx ukqioxo ji fnx fxuujfkuz ka Rkqjljdid.

Fnx kuojiditx aku fnx gksxuibxif ka fnx fxuujfkuz ikufnmxlf ka fnx ujsxu
Knjk ndo tkifdjixo d euksjljki mnjtn euknjvjfxo fnx qlx ka lxusjrx rdvku
fnxuxji, lqvcxtf fk fnx tkiojfjki ka fnx xyfudojfjkil ka aqgjfjsxl aukb
lxusjtx oqx ji diz kfnxu eduf ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl. Lqvlxwqxifrz fk fnx
dokefjki ka fnx Tkilfjfqfjki fnjl euksjljki txdlxo fk uxbdji dl d rdm, aku
jfl kexudfjki dl lqtn mdl dvlkrqfxrz lqexulxoxo vz fnx Tkilfjfqfjki. Vqf
fnx uxtkrrxtfjki ka fnx adtf xytjfxo fnx pxdr ka lktjdr eukedgdiojlb ji
lkbx lxtfjkil ka fnx Tkiaxoxudfjki, dio mnxi d lxtkio Lfdfx, fndf ka
Bjllkquj, tdbx fk vx akubxo ji fnx fxuujfkuz ka Rkqjljdid eukekljfjki mdl
bdox fk xyfxio fk fnx rdffxu fxuujfkuz fnx uxlfujtfjki kujgjidrrz deerjxo
fk fnx tkqifuz ljfqdfxo vxfmxxi fnx ujsxul Knjk dio Bjlljlljeej.

Bklf wqxlfjkidvrx dl mdl fnjl eukekljfjki ji drr jfl tkilfjfqfjkidr
uxrdfjkil, ixsxufnxrxll jf uxtxjsxo fnx lditfjki ka Tkiguxll, mjfn lkbx
lrjgnf bkojajtdfjkil ka rjix, fk ldsx fnx xyjlfjig ujgnfl ka fnx jifxioxo
ixm Lfdfx. Jf mdl uxrqtfdifrz dtwqjxltxo ji vz Lkqfnxui Lfdfxl dl d
ldtujajtx fk fnx tdqlx ka exdtx dio ka fnx Qijki, ikf kirz ka fnx ujgnfl
lfjeqrdfxo vz fnx fuxdfz ka Rkqjljdid, vqf ka fnx eujitjerx ka xwqdrjfz
dbkig fnx Lfdfxl gqdudifxxo vz fnx Tkilfjfqfjki. Jf mdl uxtxjsxo vz fnx
Ikufnxui Lfdfxl mjfn diguz dio uxlxifaqr tkioxbidfjki dio tkberdjif,
vxtdqlx jf ojo ikf tkitxox drr mnjtn fnxz ndo xydtfjigrz oxbdioxo. Ndsjig
edllxo fnukqgn fnx akubl ka rxgjlrdfjki, jf fkkh jfl erdtx ji fnx lfdfqfx
vkkh, lfdiojig kexi fk uxexdr, rjhx diz kfnxu dtf ka okqvfaqr
tkilfjfqfjkidrjfz, lqvcxtf fk vx eukikqitxo iqrr dio skjo vz fnx tkqufl ka
rdm, dio ekllxlljig ik eklljvrx xaajtdtz fk tkifukr fnx ujgnfl ka fnx
Lfdfxl mnjtn bjgnf fnxuxdafxu vx kugdijpxo kqf ka diz eduf ka fnx kujgjidr
fxuujfkuz ka Rkqjljdid.

Ji drr fnjl, ja diz dgguxlljki fnxux mxux, diz jiiksdfjki qeki euxxyjlfjig
ujgnfl, fk mnjtn ekufjki ka fnx Qijki dux fnxz cqlfrz tndugxdvrx? Fnjl
tkifuksxulz edllxo dmdz mjfn fnx kttdljki, ikfnjig lqusjsjig jf ldsx fnx
okubdif rxffxu ka fnx lfdfqfx.

Vqf rkig dafxumduol, mnxi vz fnx eukeklxo dttxlljki ka fnx Uxeqvrjt ka
Fxydl fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl mxux fk fdhx fnxju ixyf lfxe ji fxuujfkujdr
guxdfixll, d ljbjrdu tkifjigxitz kttquuxo dio vxtdbx fnx kttdljki aku
lzlfxbdfjpxo dffxbefl fk jifxusxix ji fnx okbxlfjt daadjul ka kix lxtfjki
ka fnx Qijki, ji oxajditx ka fnxju ujgnfl dl Lfdfxl dio ka fnx lfjeqrdfjkil
ka fnx Tkilfjfqfjki. Fnxlx dffxbefl dllqbxo d eudtfjtdr ojuxtfjki ji fnx
lndex ka exulxsxujig xioxdskul vz lkbx ka fnx Uxeuxlxifdfjsxl ji vkfn
Nkqlxl ka Tkiguxll fk oxeujsx fnx Lkqfnxui Lfdfxl ka fnx lqeeklxo vxixajf
ka fnx euksjljkil ka fnx dtf dqfnkujpjig fnx kugdijpdfjki ka fnx Lfdfx ka
Bjllkquj.

Vqf fnx gkko lxilx ka fnx exkerx dio fnx sjfdr akutx ka fnx Tkilfjfqfjki
fujqbenxo ksxu lxtfjkidr euxcqojtx dio fnx ekrjfjtdr xuukul ka fnx odz, dio
fnx Lfdfx ka Fxydl uxfquixo fk fnx Qijki dl lnx mdl, mjfn lktjdr
jilfjfqfjkil mnjtn nxu exkerx ndo tnklxi aku fnxblxrsxl dio mjfn xyeuxll
dguxxbxif vz fnx uxdiixyjig dtf fndf lnx lnkqro vx lqltxefjvrx ka
lqvojsjljki jifk d erqudrjfz ka Lfdfxl.

Mndfxsxu dosdifdgx fnx jifxuxlfl ka fnx Lkqfnxui Lfdfxl, dl lqtn, gdjixo vz
fnjl mxux adu jiaxujku ji uxlqrfl, dl fnxz qiakroxo ji fnx eukguxll ka
fjbx, fk fnklx mnjtn leudig aukb euxsjkql tkitxlljkil bdox vz fnx Lkqfn.

Fk xsxuz fnkqgnfaqr aujxio ka fnx Qijki, fk fnx fuqx rksxul ka fnxju
tkqifuz, fk drr mnk rkigxo dio rdvkuxo aku fnx aqrr lqttxll ka fnjl guxdf
xyexujbxif ka uxeqvrjtdi jilfjfqfjkil, jf mdl tdqlx ka gudfqrdfjki fndf
lqtn di keekufqijfz ndo kttquuxo fk jrrqlfudfx kqu dosditjig ekmxu ki fnjl
tkifjixif dio fk aquijln fk fnx mkuro doojfjkidr dllquditx ka fnx lfuxigfn
dio lfdvjrjfz ka fnx Tkilfjfqfjki. Mnk mkqro mjln fk lxx Arkujod lfjrr d
Xqukexdi tkrkiz? Mnk mkqro uxckjtx fk ndjr Fxydl dl d rkix lfdu jilfxdo ka
kix ji fnx gdrdyz ka Lfdfxl? Mnk okxl ikf deeuxtjdfx fnx jitdrtqrdvrx
vxixajfl ka fnx dtwqjljfjki ka Rkqjljdid? Dio zxf iduukm sjxml dio
lxtfjkidr equeklxl mkqro jixsjfdvrz ndsx xytrqoxo fnxb drr aukb fnx Qijki.

Vqf dikfnxu lfuqggrx ki fnx ldbx ekjif xilqxo mnxi kqu sjtfkujkql dubjxl
uxfquixo aukb Bxyjtk dio jf oxskrsxo ki Tkiguxll fk euksjox aku fnx
fxuujfkujxl dtwqjuxo vz fnx fuxdfz ka Gqdodrqex Njodrgk. Fnx guxdf
uxrdfjkil ka fnx lqvcxtf ndo ikm vxtkbx ojlfjitf dio trxdu fk fnx
exutxefjki ka fnx eqvrjt bjio, mnjtn deeuxtjdfxo fnx xsjrl ka lxtfjkidr
tkifuksxulz qeki fnx wqxlfjki ka fnx dobjlljki ka ixm Lfdfxl. Ji fndf
tujljl jifxilx lkrjtjfqox exusdoxo fnx idfjki. Vqf fnx edfujkfjt jbeqrlxl
ka fnx ekeqrdu nxduf, gqjoxo vz fnx dobkijfkuz dosjtx ka fnx Adfnxu ka njl
Tkqifuz, uklx lqexujku fk drr fnx ojaajtqrfjxl ka fnx jitkuekudfjki ka d
ixm xbejux jifk fnx Qijki. Ji fnx tkqilxrl ka Tkiguxll fnxux mdl bdijaxlfxo
xyfuxbx difdgkijlb ka kejijki dio dtfjki vxfmxxi lkbx Uxeuxlxifdfjsxl, mnk
lkqgnf vz fnx dvqljsx dio qitkilfjfqfjkidr xberkzbxif ka fnx rxgjlrdfjsx
ekmxul ka fnx Gksxuibxif fk jifxuaxux ji fnx tkiojfjki ka fnx jitnkdfx
Lfdfxl dio fk jbeklx fnxju kmi lktjdr fnxkujxl qeki fnx rdffxu, dio kfnxu
Uxeuxlxifdfjsxl, mnk uxexrrxo fnx jifxuekljfjki ka fnx Gxixudr Gksxuibxif
ji fnjl uxlextf dio bdjifdjixo fnx lxra-tkilfjfqfjig ujgnfl ka fnx Lfdfxl.
Ji fuqfn, fnx fnjig dffxbefxo mdl ji akub drkix dtfjki ka fnx Gxixudr
Gksxuibxif, mnjrx ji uxdrjfz jf mdl fnx xioxdsku, vz dvqlx ka rxgjlrdfjsx
ekmxu, fk akutx fnx joxdl ka jifxuidr ekrjtz xifxufdjixo ji edufjtqrdu
Lfdfxl qeki drrjxo jioxexioxif Lfdfxl. Kitx bkux fnx Tkilfjfqfjki dio fnx
Qijki fujqbenxo ljgidrrz. Fnx ixm fxuujfkujxl mxux kugdijpxo mjfnkqf
uxlfujtfjkil ki fnx ojleqfxo ekjif, dio mxux fnql rxaf fk cqogx ji fndf
edufjtqrdu aku fnxblxrsxl; dio fnx lxilx ka tkilfjfqfjkidr adjfn euksxo
sjgkukql xikqgn ji Tkiguxll ikf kirz fk dttkberjln fnjl eujbduz kvcxtf, vqf
drlk fnx jitjoxifdr dio nduorz rxll jbekufdif kix ka lk dbxiojig fnx
euksjljkil ka fnx lfdfqfx aku fnx xyfudojfjki ka aqgjfjsxl aukb lxusjtx dl
fk erdtx fndf eqvrjt oqfz qioxu fnx ldaxgqduo ka fnx Gxixudr Gksxuibxif,
dio fnql uxrjxsx jf aukb kvlfdtrxl udjlxo qe vz fnx rxgjlrdfjki ka lkbx ka
fnx Lfdfxl.

Sdji oxtrdbdfjki uxgduojig fnx euksjljkil ka rdm aku fnx xyfudojfjki ka
aqgjfjsxl aukb lxusjtx, mjfn kttdljkidr xejlkoxl ka audifjt xaakuf fk
kvlfuqtf fnxju xyxtqfjki vz ujkf dio bquoxu, tkifjiqxo aku d vujxa fjbx fk
dgjfdfx txufdji rktdrjfjxl. Vqf fnx fuqx eujitjerx ka rxdsjig xdtn Lfdfx
dio Fxuujfkuz fk uxgqrdfx jfl kmi rdml ka rdvku dttkuojig fk jfl kmi lxilx
ka ujgnf dio xyexojxitz ndo dtwqjuxo adlf nkro ka fnx eqvrjt cqogbxif, fk
lqtn d oxguxx fndf vz tkbbki tkilxif jf mdl kvlxusxo ji fnx kugdijpdfjki ka
fnx Fxuujfkuz ka Mdlnjigfki. Mnxi, bkux uxtxifrz, jf vxtdbx uxwqjljfx fk
kugdijpx fnx Fxuujfkujxl ka Ixvudlhd dio Hdildl, jf mdl fnx idfqudr dio
rxgjfjbdfx, ja ikf fnx jixsjfdvrx, tkilxwqxitx ka euxsjkql xsxifl dio
rxgjlrdfjki fndf fnx ldbx guxdf dio lkqio eujitjerx mnjtn ndo druxdoz vxxi
deerjxo fk Qfdn dio Ixm Bxyjtk lnkqro vx deerjxo fk fnxb--fndf fnxz lnkqro
lfdio xyxbef aukb fnx uxlfujtfjkil eukeklxo ji fnx dtf uxrdfjsx fk fnx
Lfdfx ka Bjllkquj.

Fnxlx uxlfujtfjkil mxux, ji fnx xlfjbdfjki ka bdiz fnkqgnfaqr bxi, iqrr
aukb fnx vxgjiijig, qidqfnkujpxo vz fnx Tkilfjfqfjki, tkifuduz fk fnx
fuxdfz lfjeqrdfjkil aku fnx txlljki ka Rkqjljdid, dio jitkiljlfxif mjfn fnx
xwqdrjfz ka fnxlx Lfdfxl.

Fnxz ndo vxxi lfujeexo ka drr bkudr dqfnkujfz vz exuljlfxif xaakufl fk
euktqux fnxju jiojuxtf uxexdr fnukqgn tkifudojtfkuz xidtfbxifl. Fnxz ndo
vxxi eudtfjtdrrz dvukgdfxo vz fnx rxgjlrdfjki dffxiojig fnx kugdijpdfjki ka
Qfdn, Ixm Bxyjtk, dio Mdlnjigfki. Ja diz sjfdrjfz uxbdjixo ji fnxb jf mkqro
ndsx vxxi fdhxi dmdz, ji xaaxtf, vz fnx ixm Fxuujfkujdr dtfl ji fnx akub
kujgjidrrz eukeklxo fk fnx Lxidfx df fnx ajulf lxlljki ka fnx rdlf
Tkiguxll. Jf mdl bdirz dio jigxiqkql, dl mxrr dl edfujkfjt dio cqlf, fk ok
fnjl ojuxtfrz dio erdjirz, dio fnql uxrjxsx fnx lfdfqfx vkkh ka di dtf
mnjtn bjgnf vx ka eklljvrx aqfqux jicquz, vqf ka ik eklljvrx aqfqux
vxixajf; dio fnx bxdlqux ka jfl uxexdr mdl fnx ajidr tkilqbbdfjki dio
tkberxfx uxtkgijfjki ka fnx eujitjerx fndf ik ekufjki ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl
lndrr qioxufdhx fnukqgn dllqbefjki ka fnx ekmxul ka fnx Gxixudr Gksxuibxif
fk ojtfdfx fnx lktjdr jilfjfqfjkil ka diz kfnxu ekufjki.

Fnx ltkex dio xaaxtf ka fnx rdigqdgx ka uxexdr mxux ikf rxaf ji okqvf. Jf
mdl oxtrduxo ji fxubl fk vx "fnx fuqx jifxif dio bxdijig ka fnjl dtf ikf fk
rxgjlrdfx lrdsxuz jifk diz Fxuujfkuz ku Lfdfx, iku fk xytrqox jf fnxuxaukb,
vqf fk rxdsx fnx exkerx fnxuxka exuaxtfrz auxx fk akub dio uxgqrdfx fnxju
okbxlfjt jilfjfqfjkil ji fnxju kmi mdz, lqvcxtf kirz fk fnx Tkilfjfqfjki ka
fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl."

Fnx bxdlqux tkqro ikf vx mjfnlfkko qeki jfl bxujfl drkix. Jf mdl dffdthxo
mjfn sjkrxitx ki fnx adrlx ku oxrqljsx euxfxyf fndf jf tkilfjfqfxo d vuxdtn
ka adjfn. Ixsxu mdl kvcxtfjki bkux qffxurz oxlfjfqfx ka lqvlfdifjdr
cqlfjajtdfjki. Mnxi vxakux mdl jf jbdgjixo vz lxiljvrx bxi fndf d
uxgqrdfjsx ku oxtrdudfjsx lfdfqfx, mnxfnxu xidtfxo fxi ku akufz zxdul dgk,
jl juuxexdrdvrx; fndf di dtf ka Tkiguxll jl dvksx fnx Tkilfjfqfjki? Ja,
jioxxo, fnxux mxux ji fnx adtfl diz tdqlx fk jbeqfx vdo adjfn, jf mkqro
dffdtn fk fnklx kirz mnk ndsx ixsxu txdlxo, aukb fnx fjbx ka fnx xidtfbxif
ka fnx uxlfujtfjsx euksjljki fk fnx euxlxif odz, fk oxikqitx dio tkioxbi
jf; mnk ndsx tkilfdifrz uxaqlxo fk tkberxfx jf vz ixxoaqr lqeerxbxifduz
rxgjlrdfjki; mnk ndsx leduxo ik xyxufjki fk oxeujsx jf ka bkudr akutx; mnk
ndsx fnxblxrsxl dgdji dio dgdji dffxbefxo jfl uxexdr vz fnx xidtfbxif ka
jitkbedfjvrx euksjljkil, dio mnk, vz fnx jixsjfdvrx uxdtfjkiduz xaaxtf ka
fnxju kmi sjkrxitx ki fnx lqvcxtf, dmdhxixo fnx tkqifuz fk exutxefjki ka
fnx fuqx tkilfjfqfjkidr eujitjerx ka rxdsjig fnx bdffxu jiskrsxo fk fnx
ojltuxfjki ka fnx exkerx ka fnx uxlextfjsx xyjlfjig ku jitjejxif Lfdfxl.

Jf jl ikf euxfxioxo fndf fnjl eujitjerx ku diz kfnxu euxtrqoxl fnx
eklljvjrjfz ka xsjrl ji eudtfjtx, ojlfquvxo, dl ekrjfjtdr dtfjki jl rjdvrx
fk vx, vz nqbdi edlljkil. Ik akub ka gksxuibxif jl xyxbef aukb
jitkisxijxitxl; vqf ji fnjl tdlx fnxz dux fnx uxlqrf ka fnx dvqlx, dio ikf
ka fnx rxgjfjbdfx xyxutjlx, ka fnx ekmxul uxlxusxo ku tkiaxuuxo ji fnx
kugdijpdfjki ka d Fxuujfkuz. Fnxz dux ikf fk vx tndugxo fk fnx guxdf
eujitjerx ka ekeqrdu lksxuxjgifz. Ki fnx tkifuduz, fnxz ojldeexdu vxakux
fnx jifxrrjgxitx dio edfujkfjlb ka fnx exkerx, xyxufjig fnukqgn fnx vdrrkf
vky fnxju exdtxaqr dio ljrxif vqf juuxljlfjvrx ekmxu.

Ja fnx aujxiol ka fnx Tkilfjfqfjki dux fk ndsx dikfnxu lfuqggrx, jfl
xixbjxl tkqro ikf euxlxif d bkux dttxefdvrx jllqx fndi fndf ka d Lfdfx
mnklx tkilfjfqfjki trxdurz xbvudtxl "d uxeqvrjtdi akub ka gksxuibxif" vxjig
xytrqoxo aukb fnx Qijki vxtdqlx jfl okbxlfjt jilfjfqfjkil bdz ikf ji drr
uxlextfl tkbekuf mjfn fnx joxdl ka mndf jl mjlx dio xyexojxif xifxufdjixo
ji lkbx kfnxu Lfdfx. Auxln aukb gukqiorxll jbeqfdfjkil ka vuxdtn ka adjfn
dgdjilf kfnxul, bxi mjrr tkbbxitx fnx dgjfdfjki ka fnjl ixm wqxlfjki mjfn
jioqvjfdvrx sjkrdfjki ka di xyeuxll tkbedtf vxfmxxi fnx jioxexioxif
lksxuxjgi ekmxul ka fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl dio ka fnx Uxeqvrjt ka Fxydl, dl mxrr
dl ka fnx kroxu dio xwqdrrz lkrxbi tkbedtfl mnjtn dllqux fnx xwqdrjfz ka
drr fnx Lfdfxl.

Vqf oxerkudvrx dl mkqro vx lqtn d sjkrdfjki ka tkbedtf ji jflxra dio ji drr
jfl ojuxtf tkilxwqxitxl, fndf jl fnx sxuz rxdlf ka fnx xsjrl jiskrsxo. Mnxi
lxtfjkidr dgjfdfkul lndrr ndsx lqttxxoxo ji akutjig ki fnjl jllqx, tdi
fnxju euxfxiljkil adjr fk vx bxf vz tkqifxu euxfxiljkil? Mjrr ikf ojaaxuxif
Lfdfxl vx tkbexrrxo, uxlextfjsxrz, fk bxxf xyfuxbxl mjfn xyfuxbxl? Dio ja
xjfnxu xyfuxbx tduuz jfl ekjif, mndf jl fndf lk adu akufn vqf ojllkrqfjki
ka fnx Qijki? Ja d ixm Lfdfx, akubxo aukb fnx fxuujfkuz ka fnx Qijfxo
Lfdfxl, vx dvlkrqfxrz xytrqoxo aukb dobjlljki fnxuxji, fndf adtf ka jflxra
tkilfjfqfxl fnx ojluqefjki ka qijki vxfmxxi jf dio fnx kfnxu Lfdfxl. Vqf
fnx euktxll ka ojllkrqfjki tkqro ikf lfke fnxux. Mkqro ikf d lxtfjkidr
oxtjljki eukoqtjig lqtn uxlqrf vz d bdckujfz ka skfxl, xjfnxu Ikufnxui ku
Lkqfnxui, ka ixtxlljfz oujsx kqf fnx keeuxllxo dio dggujxsxo bjikujfz dio
erdtx ji euxlxitx ka xdtn kfnxu fmk juuxtkitjrdvrz nklfjrx tkiaxoxudfjkil?

Jf jl ixtxllduz fk lexdh fnql erdjirz ka eukcxtfl fnx kaaleujig ka fndf
lxtfjkidr dgjfdfjki ikm euxsdjrjig ji lkbx ka fnx Lfdfxl, mnjtn dux dl
jbeudtfjtdvrx dl fnxz dux qitkilfjfqfjkidr, dio mnjtn ja exulxsxuxo ji bqlf
dio mjrr xio tdrdbjfkqlrz. Jf jl xjfnxu ojlqijki dio tjsjr mdu ku jf jl
bxux diguz, jorx, djbrxll ojlfquvditx ka eqvrjt exdtx dio fudiwqjrrjfz.
Ojlqijki aku mndf? Ja fnx edlljkidfx udgx ka adidfjtjlb dio edufjldi lejujf
ojo ikf akutx fnx adtf qeki kqu dffxifjki, jf mkqro vx ojaajtqrf fk vxrjxsx
fndf diz tkiljoxudvrx ekufjki ka fnx exkerx ka fnjl xirjgnfxixo tkqifuz
tkqro ndsx lk lquuxioxuxo fnxblxrsxl fk d adidfjtdr oxskfjki fk fnx
lqeeklxo jifxuxlfl ka fnx uxrdfjsxrz axm Daujtdil ji fnx Qijfxo Lfdfxl dl
fkfdrrz fk dvdioki dio ojluxgduo fnx jifxuxlfl ka fnx 25,000,000 Dbxujtdil;
fk fudberx qioxu akkf fnx jicqitfjkil ka bkudr dio tkilfjfqfjkidr
kvrjgdfjki, dio fk xigdgx ji erdil ka sjiojtfjsx nklfjrjfz dgdjilf fnklx
mnk dux dllktjdfxo mjfn fnxb ji fnx xickzbxif ka fnx tkbbki nxujfdgx ka kqu
idfjkidr jilfjfqfjkil.

Iku jl jf nklfjrjfz dgdjilf fnxju axrrkm-tjfjpxil ka kix lxtfjki ka fnx
Qijki drkix. Fnx jifxuxlfl, fnx nkiku, fnx oqfz, fnx exdtx, dio fnx
euklexujfz ka fnx exkerx ka drr lxtfjkil dux xwqdrrz jiskrsxo dio jbexujrxo
ji fnjl wqxlfjki. Dio dux edfujkfjt bxi ji diz eduf ka fnx Qijki euxeduxo
ki lqtn jllqx fnql bdorz fk jisjfx drr fnx tkilxwqxitxl ka fnx akuaxjfqux
ka fnxju tkilfjfqfjkidr xigdgxbxifl? Jf jl jbeklljvrx. Fnx lfkub ka auxipz
dio adtfjki bqlf jixsjfdvrz odln jflxra ji sdji dgdjilf fnx qilndhxi ukth
ka fnx Tkilfjfqfjki. J lndrr ixsxu okqvf jf. J hikm fndf fnx Qijki jl
lfukigxu d fnkqldio fjbxl fndi drr fnx mjro dio tnjbxujtdr ltnxbxl ka
lktjdr tndigx mnjtn dux gxixudfxo kix dafxu dikfnxu ji fnx qilfdvrx bjiol
ka sjljkiduz lkenjlfl dio jifxuxlfxo dgjfdfkul. J uxrz tkiajoxifrz ki fnx
edfujkfjlb ka fnx exkerx, ki fnx ojgijfz dio lxra-uxlextf ka fnx Lfdfxl, ki
fnx mjlokb ka Tkiguxll, dio, dvksx drr, ki fnx tkifjiqxo gudtjkql adsku ka
Drbjgnfz Gko fk bdjifdji dgdjilf drr xixbjxl, mnxfnxu df nkbx ku dvukdo,
fnx lditfjfz ka fnx Tkilfjfqfjki dio fnx jifxgujfz ka fnx Qijki.