Zrbbtg-Pwcwursl tz cir Lrsecr esy tz cir Itqlr tz Ormorlrscecwvrl:

Cir Ptslcwcqcwts oraqworl ciec cir Morlwyrsc liebb zotf cwfr ct cwfr stc
tsbh orptffrsy ct cir ptslwyroecwts tz Ptsdorll lqpi frelqorl el ir feh
nqydr srprlleoh esy rxmrywrsc, kqc eblt ciec ir liebb dwvr wsztofecwts ct
cirf tz cir lcecr tz cir Qswts. Ct yt ciwl zqbbh wsvtbvrl rxmtlwcwts tz ebb
feccrol ws cir epcqeb ptsywcwts tz cir ptqscoh, ytfrlcwp to ztorwds, giwpi
rllrscwebbh ptspros cir drsroeb grbzeor. Giwbr mroztofwsd iwl
ptslcwcqcwtseb yqch ws ciwl orlmrpc, cir Morlwyrsc ytrl stc lmrej frorbh ct
rxmorll mroltseb ptsvwpcwtsl, kqc el cir rxrpqcwvr fwswlcro tz cir
Dtvrosfrsc, rsekbry kh iwl mtlwcwts esy pebbry qmts kh iwl tzzwpweb
tkbwdecwtsl ct lpes gwci es wfmeocweb rhr cir wscrorlcl tz cir gitbr esy tz
rvroh meoc tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl.

Tz cir ptsywcwts tz cir ytfrlcwp wscrorlcl tz cir Qswts--wcl edowpqbcqor,
fwsrl, fesqzepcqorl, sevwdecwts, esy ptffropr--wc wl srprlleoh tsbh ct leh
ciec cir wscroseb motlmrowch tz cir ptqscoh, wcl ptscwsqtql esy lcreyh
eyvesprfrsc ws grebci esy mtmqbecwts esy ws mowvecr el grbb el mqkbwp
grbb-krwsd, eccrlc cir gwlytf tz tqo wslcwcqcwtsl esy cir morytfwsesc
lmwowc tz wscrbbwdrspr esy mecowtcwlf giwpi, stcgwcilcesywsd tppelwtseb
woordqbeowcwrl tz tmwswts to epcwts orlqbcwsd zotf mtmqbeo zorrytf, iel
ywlcwsdqwliry esy pieoepcrowury cir mrtmbr tz Efrowpe. Ws cir kowrz
wscroveb krcgrrs cir crofwsecwts tz cir belc esy cir ptffrsprfrsc tz cir
morlrsc lrllwts tz Ptsdorll cir mqkbwp fwsy iel krrs tppqmwry gwci cir peor
tz lrbrpcwsd zto estciro ptslcwcqcwtseb crof cir Morlwyrsc esy
Vwpr-Morlwyrsc tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl.

Cir yrcrofwsecwts tz cir mroltsl git eor tz owdic, to ptscwsdrscbh, ct
morlwyr tvro cir eyfwswlcoecwts tz cir Dtvrosfrsc wl qsyro tqo lhlcrf
ptffwccry ct cir Lcecrl esy cir mrtmbr. Gr emmreb ct cirf, kh cirwo vtwpr
motstqspry ws cir ztofl tz beg, ct pebb gitfltrvro cirh gwbb ct cir iwdi
mtlc tz Piwrz Fedwlcoecr.

Esy ciql wc wl ciec el cir Lrsectol ormorlrsc cir orlmrpcwvr Lcecrl tz cir
Qswts esy cir frfkrol tz cir Itqlr tz Ormorlrscecwvrl cir lrvroeb
ptslcwcqrspwrl tz repi Lcecr, lt cir Morlwyrsc ormorlrscl cir eddordecr
mtmqbecwts tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl. Cirwo rbrpcwts tz iwf wl cir rxmbwpwc esy
ltbrfs epc tz cir ltbr ltvrorwds eqcitowch tz cir Qswts.

Wc wl wfmtllwkbr ct fwlemmorirsy cir dorec mowspwmbrl giwpi kh cirwo orprsc
mtbwcwpeb epcwts cir mrtmbr tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl ievr lespcwtsry esy
esstqspry.

Cirh ievr ellrocry cir ptslcwcqcwtseb raqebwch tz repi esy ebb tz cir
Lcecrl tz cir Qswts el Lcecrl: cirh ievr ezzwofry cir ptslcwcqcwtseb
raqebwch tz repi esy ebb tz cir pwcwursl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl el pwcwursl,
giecrvro cirwo orbwdwts, girorvro cirwo kwoci to cirwo orlwyrspr; cirh ievr
fewscewsry cir wsvwtbekwbwch tz cir ptslcwcqcwtseb owdicl tz cir ywzzrorsc
lrpcwtsl tz cir Qswts, esy cirh ievr motpbewfry cirwo yrvtcry esy
qsebcroekbr eccepifrsc ct cir Qswts esy ct cir Ptslcwcqcwts, el tknrpcl tz
wscrorlc lqmrowto ct ebb lqknrpcl tz btpeb to lrpcwtseb ptscotvrolh, el cir
lezrdqeoy tz cir owdicl tz ebb, el cir lmwowc esy cir rllrspr tz cir
bwkroch, mrepr, esy dorecsrll tz cir Ormqkbwp. Ws ytwsd ciwl cirh ievr ec
cir lefr cwfr rfmiecwpebbh ptsyrfsry cir wyre tz todeswuwsd ws cirlr Qswcry
Lcecrl fror drtdoemiwpeb meocwrl, tz feoliebwsd ws itlcwbr eooeh ctgeoy
repi tciro cir ywzzrorsc meocl tz cir ptqscoh, Stoci to Ltqci, Relc to
Grlc.

Lpirfrl tz ciwl secqor, zoeqdic gwci wspebpqbekbr fwlpiwrz, esy giwpi cir
ptslwyroecr lrslr tz cir mrtmbr iel ornrpcry, ptqby ievr iey ptqscrsespr ws
st meoc tz cir ptqscoh iey cirh stc krrs ywldqwlry kh lqddrlcwtsl mbeqlwkbr
ws emmreoespr, epcwsd qmts es rxpwcry lcecr tz cir mqkbwp fwsy, wsyqpry kh
peqlrl crfmtoeoh ws cirwo pieoepcro esy, wc wl ct kr itmry, coeslwrsc ws
cirwo wszbqrspr.

Mrozrpc bwkroch tz elltpwecwts zto mtbwcwpeb tknrpcl esy cir gwyrlc lptmr
tz ywlpqllwts eor cir orprwvry esy toywseoh ptsywcwtsl tz dtvrosfrsc ws tqo
ptqscoh. Tqo wslcwcqcwtsl, zoefry ws cir lmwowc tz ptszwyrspr ws cir
wscrbbwdrspr esy wscrdowch tz cir mrtmbr, yt stc ztokwy pwcwursl, rwciro
wsywvwyqebbh to elltpwecry ctdrciro, ct eccepj kh gowcwsd, lmrrpi, to esh
tciro frcityl litoc tz mihlwpeb ztopr cir Ptslcwcqcwts esy cir vroh
rxwlcrspr tz cir Qswts. Qsyro cir lirbcro tz ciwl dorec bwkroch, esy
motcrpcry kh cir begl esy qledrl tz cir Dtvrosfrsc cirh ellewb,
elltpwecwtsl ievr krrs ztofry ws ltfr tz cir Lcecrl tz wsywvwyqebl git,
morcrsywsd ct lrrj tsbh ct morvrsc cir lmorey tz cir wslcwcqcwts tz lbevroh
wsct cir morlrsc to zqcqor wspitecr Lcecrl tz cir Qswts, eor orebbh
wszbefry gwci yrlwor ct piesdr cir ytfrlcwp wslcwcqcwtsl tz rxwlcwsd
Lcecrl. Ct epptfmbwli cirwo tknrpcl cirh yrywpecr cirflrbvrl ct cir tywtql
celj tz yrmorpwecwsd cir dtvrosfrsc todeswuecwts giwpi lcesyl ws cirwo geh
esy tz pebqfswecwsd gwci wsywlpowfwsecr wsvrpcwvr stc tsbh cir pwcwursl tz
meocwpqbeo Lcecrl gwci gitlr begl cirh zwsy zeqbc, kqc ebb tcirol tz cirwo
zrbbtg pwcwursl ciotqditqc cir ptqscoh git yt stc meocwpwmecr gwci cirf ws
cirwo elleqbcl qmts cir Ptslcwcqcwts, zoefry esy eytmcry kh tqo zecirol,
esy pbewfwsd zto cir mowvwbrdrl wc iel lrpqory esy cir kbrllwsdl wc iel
ptszroory cir lcreyh lqmmtoc esy doecrzqb orvrorspr tz cirwo piwbyors. Cirh
lrrj es tknrpc giwpi cirh grbb jstg ct kr e orvtbqcwtseoh tsr. Cirh eor
mrozrpcbh egeor ciec cir piesdr ws cir orbecwvr ptsywcwts tz cir giwcr esy
kbepj oeprl ws cir lbevritbywsd Lcecrl giwpi cirh gtqby motftcr wl krhtsy
cirwo begzqb eqcitowch; ciec ct cirf wc wl e ztorwds tknrpc; ciec wc pes
stc kr rzzrpcry kh esh mreprzqb wslcoqfrscebwch tz cirwol; ciec zto cirf
esy cir Lcecrl tz giwpi cirh eor pwcwursl cir tsbh meci ct wcl
epptfmbwlifrsc wl ciotqdi kqoswsd pwcwrl, esy oevedry zwrbyl, esy
lbeqdicrory mtmqbecwtsl, esy ebb ciror wl ftlc croowkbr ws ztorwds
ptfmbwpecry gwci pwvwb esy lrovwbr geo; esy ciec cir zwolc lcrm ws cir
eccrfmc wl cir ztopwkbr ywloqmcwts tz e ptqscoh rfkoepwsd ws wcl kotey
ktltf e yrdorr tz bwkroch esy es eftqsc tz wsywvwyqeb esy mqkbwp motlmrowch
ct giwpi ciror wl st meoebbrb ws iwlctoh, esy lqklcwcqcwsd ws wcl mbepr
itlcwbr dtvrosfrscl, yowvrs ec tspr esy wsrvwcekbh wsct fqcqeb yrvelcecwts
esy zoecowpwyeb peosedr, coeslztofwsd cir stg mreprzqb esy zrbwpwctql
kotciroitty wsct e velc mrofesrsc pefm tz eofry frs bwjr cir owveb
ftseopiwrl tz Rqotmr esy Elwe. Grbb jstgwsd ciec lqpi, esy lqpi tsbh, eor
cir fresl esy cir ptslraqrsprl tz cirwo mbesl esy mqomtlrl, cirh rsyrevto
ct mormeor cir mrtmbr tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl zto pwvwb geo kh ytwsd
rvrohciwsd ws cirwo mtgro ct yrmowvr cir Ptslcwcqcwts esy cir begl tz ftoeb
eqcitowch esy ct qsyrofwsr cir zekowp tz cir Qswts kh emmrebl ct mellwts
esy lrpcwtseb mornqywpr, kh wsytpcowsecwsd wcl mrtmbr gwci orpwmotpeb
iecory, esy kh ryqpecwsd cirf ct lcesy zepr ct zepr el rsrfwrl, oeciro cies
litqbyro ct litqbyro el zowrsyl.

Wc wl kh cir edrsph tz lqpi qsgeooescekbr wscrozrorspr, ztorwds esy
ytfrlcwp, ciec cir fwsyl tz fesh tcirogwlr dtty pwcwursl ievr krrs lt
wszbefry wsct cir mellwtsecr ptsyrfsecwts tz cir ytfrlcwp wslcwcqcwtsl tz
cir Ltqciros Lcecrl el ec brsdci ct mell wslrslwkbh ct ebftlc raqebbh
mellwts becr itlcwbwch ctgeoy cirwo zrbbtg-pwcwursl tz citlr Lcecrl, esy
ciql zwsebbh ct zebb wsct crfmtoeoh zrbbtgliwm gwci cir evtgry esy epcwvr
rsrfwrl tz cir Ptslcwcqcwts. Eoyrscbh eccepiry ct bwkroch ws cir eklcoepc,
cirh yt stc lctm ct ptslwyro moepcwpebbh itg cir tknrpcl cirh gtqby eccews
pes kr epptfmbwliry, sto ct orzbrpc ciec, rvrs wz cir rvwb gror el dorec el
cirh yrrf wc, cirh ievr st orfryh ct emmbh, esy ciec wc pes kr tsbh
eddoevecry kh cirwo vwtbrspr esy qsptslcwcqcwtseb epcwts. E aqrlcwts giwpi
wl tsr tz cir ftlc ywzzwpqbc tz ebb cir motkbrfl tz ltpweb wslcwcqcwts,
mtbwcwpeb rptstfh, esy lcecrlfesliwm cirh corec gwci qsoreltswsd
wscrfmroespr tz citqdic esy besdqedr. Rxcorfrl krdrc rxcorfrl. Vwtbrsc
eccepj zotf cir Stoci zwsyl wcl wsrvwcekbr ptslraqrspr ws cir dotgci tz e
lmwowc tz esdoh yrzwespr ec cir Ltqci. Ciql ws cir motdorll tz rvrscl gr
iey orepiry ciec ptslqffecwts, giwpi cir vtwpr tz cir mrtmbr iel stg lt
mtwscrybh orkqjry, tz cir eccrfmc tz e mtocwts tz cir Lcecrl, kh e
lrpcwtseb todeswuecwts esy ftvrfrsc, ct qlqom cir ptscotb tz cir Dtvrosfrsc
tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl.

W ptszwyrscbh krbwrvr ciec cir dorec ktyh tz citlr git wsptslwyroecrbh cttj
ciwl zeceb lcrm eor lwsprorbh eccepiry ct cir Ptslcwcqcwts esy cir Qswts.
Cirh gtqby qmts yrbwkroecwts liowsj gwci qsezzrpcry itooto zotf esh
ptslpwtql epc tz ywlqswts to pwvwb geo. Kqc cirh ievr rscrory wsct e meci
giwpi breyl stgiror qsbrll wc kr ct pwvwb geo esy ywlqswts, esy giwpi iel
st tciro mtllwkbr tqcbrc. Cirh ievr motprryry ciql zeo ws ciec yworpcwts ws
ptslraqrspr tz cir lqpprllwvr lcedrl tz cirwo motdorll ievwsd ptslwlcry tz
e lrowrl tz lrptsyeoh wllqrl, repi tz giwpi motzrllry ct kr ptszwsry gwciws
ptslcwcqcwtseb esy mreprzqb bwfwcl, kqc giwpi eccrfmcry wsyworpcbh giec zrg
frs gror gwbbwsd ct yt yworpcbh; ciec wl, ct epc eddorllwvrbh edewslc cir
ptslcwcqcwtseb owdicl tz sreobh tsr-iebz tz cir ciwoch-tsr Lcecrl.

Ws cir btsd lrowrl tz epcl tz wsyworpc eddorllwts, cir zwolc gel cir
lcorsqtql edwcecwts kh pwcwursl tz cir Stociros Lcecrl, ws Ptsdorll esy tqc
tz wc, tz cir aqrlcwts tz Srdot rfespwmecwts ws cir Ltqciros Lcecrl.

Cir lrptsy lcrm ws ciwl meci tz rvwb ptslwlcry tz epcl tz cir mrtmbr tz cir
Stociros Lcecrl, esy ws lrvroeb wslcesprl tz cirwo dtvrosfrscl, ewfry ct
zepwbwcecr cir rlpemr tz mroltsl irby ct lrovwpr ws cir Ltqciros Lcecrl esy
ct morvrsc cirwo rxcoeywcwts girs orpbewfry epptoywsd ct beg esy ws vwocqr
tz rxmorll motvwlwtsl tz cir Ptslcwcqcwts. Ct motftcr ciwl tknrpc,
brdwlbecwvr rsepcfrscl esy tciro fresl gror eytmcry ct cejr egeh to yrzrec
owdicl giwpi cir Ptslcwcqcwts ltbrfsbh dqeoescrry. Ws toyro ct sqbbwzh cir
cirs rxwlcwsd epc tz Ptsdorll ptsproswsd cir rxcoeywcwts tz zqdwcwvrl zotf
lrovwpr, begl gror rsepcry ws fesh Lcecrl ztokwyywsd cirwo tzzwprol, qsyro
cir lrvrorlc mrsebcwrl, ct meocwpwmecr ws cir rxrpqcwts tz esh epc tz
Ptsdorll giecrvro. Ws ciwl geh ciec lhlcrf tz ieoftswtql pttmroecwts
krcgrrs cir eqcitowcwrl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl esy tz cir lrvroeb Lcecrl, zto
cir fewscrsespr tz cirwo ptffts wslcwcqcwtsl, giwpi rxwlcry ws cir reobh
hreol tz cir Ormqkbwp gel yrlcothry; ptszbwpcl tz nqowlywpcwts pefr ct kr
zoraqrsc, esy Ptsdorll ztqsy wclrbz ptfmrbbry, zto cir lqmmtoc tz cir
Ptslcwcqcwts esy cir vwsywpecwts tz wcl mtgro, ct eqcitowur cir emmtwscfrsc
tz srg tzzwprol pieodry gwci cir rxrpqcwts tz wcl epcl, el wz cirh esy cir
tzzwprol tz cir Lcecrl gror cir fwswlcrol, orlmrpcwvrbh, tz ztorwds
dtvrosfrscl ws e lcecr tz fqcqeb itlcwbwch oeciro cies zrbbtg-fedwlcoecrl
tz e ptffts ptqscoh mreprzqbbh lqklwlcwsd qsyro cir motcrpcwts tz tsr
grbb-ptslcwcqcry Qswts. Ciql iror eblt eddorllwts gel ztbbtgry kh orepcwts,
esy cir eccepjl qmts cir Ptslcwcqcwts ec ciwl mtwsc ywy kqc lrovr ct oewlr
qm srg keoowrol zto wcl yrzrslr esy lrpqowch.

Cir ciwoy lcedr tz ciwl qsiemmh lrpcwtseb ptscotvrolh gel ws ptssrpcwts
gwci cir todeswuecwts tz Croowctoweb dtvrosfrscl esy cir eyfwllwts tz srg
Lcecrl wsct cir Qswts. Girs wc gel motmtlry ct eyfwc cir Lcecr tz Fewsr, kh
lrmeoecwts tz croowctoh zotf ciec tz Fellepiqlrccl, esy cir Lcecr tz
Fwlltqow, ztofry tz e mtocwts tz cir croowctoh pryry kh Zoespr ct cir
Qswcry Lcecrl, ormorlrscecwvrl ws Ptsdorll tknrpcry ct cir eyfwllwts tz cir
beccro qsbrll gwci ptsywcwtsl lqwcry ct meocwpqbeo vwrgl tz mqkbwp mtbwph.
Cir wfmtlwcwts tz lqpi e ptsywcwts gel lqpprllzqbbh orlwlcry; kqc ec cir
lefr mrowty cir aqrlcwts gel morlrscry tz wfmtlwsd orlcowpcwtsl qmts cir
orlwyqr tz cir croowctoh pryry kh Zoespr. Ciec aqrlcwts gel zto cir cwfr
ywlmtlry tz kh cir eytmcwts tz e drtdoemiwpeb bwsr tz bwfwcecwts.

Ws ciwl ptssrpcwts wc litqby stc kr ztodtccrs ciec girs Zoespr, tz iro tgs
epptoy, orltbvry, zto ptslwyroecwtsl tz cir ftlc zeolwdicry ledepwch, ct
pryr Btqwlwese ct cir Qswcry Lcecrl, esy ciec epprllwts gel epprmcry kh cir
Qswcry Lcecrl, cir beccro rxmorllbh rsdedry ciec "cir wsiekwcescl tz cir
pryry croowctoh liebb kr wsptomtoecry ws cir Qswts tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl esy
eyfwccry el ltts el mtllwkbr, epptoywsd ct cir mowspwmbrl tz cir Zryroeb
Ptslcwcqcwts, ct cir rsnthfrsc tz ebb cir owdicl, eyvescedrl, esy
wffqswcwrl tz pwcwursl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl; esy ws cir frescwfr cirh liebb
kr fewscewsry esy motcrpcry ws cir zorr rsnthfrsc tz cirwo bwkroch,
motmroch, esy cir orbwdwts giwpi cirh motzrll;" ciec wl ct leh, giwbr wc
orfewsl ws e Croowctoweb ptsywcwts wcl wsiekwcescl eor fewscewsry esy
motcrpcry ws cir zorr rsnthfrsc tz cirwo bwkroch esy motmroch, gwci e owdic
cirs ct mell wsct cir ptsywcwts tz Lcecrl ts e zttcwsd tz mrozrpc raqebwch
gwci cir towdwseb Lcecrl.

Cir rsepcfrsc giwpi rlcekbwliry cir orlcowpcwvr drtdoemiwpeb bwsr gel
epaqwrlpry ws oeciro cies emmotvry kh cir Lcecrl tz cir Qswts. Wc lctty ts
cir lcecqcr kttj, itgrvro, zto e sqfkro tz hreol; esy cir mrtmbr tz cir
orlmrpcwvr Lcecrl epaqwrlpry ws cir orrsepcfrsc tz cir mowspwmbr el emmbwry
ct cir Lcecr tz Crxel, esy wc gel motmtlry ct epaqwrlpr ws wcl zqociro
emmbwpecwts ct cir croowctoh epaqwory kh cir Qswcry Lcecrl zotf Frxwpt. Kqc
ciwl motmtlwcwts gel lqpprllzqbbh orlwlcry kh cir ormorlrscecwvrl zotf cir
Stociros Lcecrl, git, ordeoybrll tz cir lcecqcr bwsr, wslwlcry qmts
emmbhwsd orlcowpcwts ct cir srg croowctoh drsroebbh, girciro bhwsd stoci to
ltqci tz wc, cirorkh ormrebwsd wc el e brdwlbecwvr ptfmotfwlr, esy, ts cir
meoc tz cir Stoci, mrolwlcrscbh vwtbecwsd cir ptfmepc, wz ptfmepc ciror
gel.

Cirorqmts ciwl rsepcfrsc prelry ct ievr kwsywsd vwocqr ws esh lrslr,
girciro el orlmrpcl cir Stoci to cir Ltqci, esy lt ws rzzrpc wc gel corecry
ts cir tppelwts tz cir eyfwllwts tz cir Lcecr tz Pebwztoswe esy cir
todeswuecwts tz cir Croowctowrl tz Srg Frxwpt, Qcei, esy Geliwsdcts.

Lqpi gel cir lcecr tz ciwl aqrlcwts girs cir cwfr eoowvry zto cir
todeswuecwts tz cir Croowctowrl tz Jeslel esy Srkoelje. Ws cir motdorll tz
ptslcwcqcwtseb wsaqwoh esy orzbrpcwts wc iey stg ec brsdci ptfr ct kr lrrs
pbreobh ciec Ptsdorll ytrl stc mtllrll ptslcwcqcwtseb mtgro ct wfmtlr
orlcowpcwtsl tz ciwl pieoepcro qmts esh morlrsc to zqcqor Lcecr tz cir
Qswts. Ws e btsd lrowrl tz yrpwlwtsl, ts cir zqbbrlc eodqfrsc esy ezcro cir
ftlc yrbwkroecr ptslwyroecwts, cir Lqmorfr Ptqoc tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl iey
zwsebbh yrcrofwsry ciwl mtwsc ws rvroh ztof qsyro giwpi cir aqrlcwts ptqby
eowlr, girciro el ezzrpcwsd mqkbwp to mowvecr owdicl--ws aqrlcwtsl tz cir
mqkbwp ytfews, tz orbwdwts, tz sevwdecwts, esy tz lrovwcqyr.

Cir lrvroeb Lcecrl tz cir Qswts eor kh ztopr tz cir Ptslcwcqcwts ptraqeb ws
ytfrlcwp brdwlbecwvr mtgro. Ptsdorll pes stc piesdr e beg tz ytfrlcwp
orbecwts ws cir Lcecr tz Fewsr; st ftor pes wc ws cir Lcecr tz Fwlltqow.
Esh lcecqcr giwpi motmtlrl ct yt ciwl wl e fror sqbbwch; wc cejrl egeh st
owdic, wc ptszrol stsr. Wz wc orfewsl ts cir lcecqcr kttj qsormrebry, wc
orfewsl ciror tsbh el e ftsqfrsc tz rooto esy e krepts tz geoswsd ct cir
brdwlbecto esy cir lcecrlfes. Ct ormreb wc gwbb kr tsbh ct orftvr
wfmrozrpcwts zotf cir lcecqcrl, gwcitqc ezzrpcwsd, rwciro ws cir lrslr tz
mrofwllwts, to tz motiwkwcwts, cir epcwts tz cir Lcecrl to tz cirwo
pwcwursl.

Lcwbb, girs cir stfwseb orlcowpcwts tz ciwl secqor, eboreyh e yrey brccro
ws beg, gel ws crofl ormrebry kh cir belc Ptsdorll, ws e pbeqlr tz cir epc
todeswuwsd cir Croowctowrl tz Jeslel esy Srkoelje, ciec ormreb gel feyr cir
tppelwts tz e gwyrlmorey esy yesdrotql edwcecwts. Wc gel ebbrdry ciec cir
towdwseb rsepcfrsc krwsd e ptfmepc tz mromrcqeb ftoeb tkbwdecwts, wcl
ormreb ptslcwcqcry es tywtql korepi tz zewci. Es epc tz Ptsdorll, giwbr wc
orfewsl qsormrebry, ftor rlmrpwebbh wz wc kr ptslcwcqcwtsebbh vebwy ws cir
nqydfrsc tz citlr mqkbwp zqspcwtseowrl gitlr yqch wc wl ct motstqspr ts
ciec mtwsc, wl qsytqkcrybh kwsywsd ts cir ptslpwrspr tz repi dtty pwcwurs
tz cir Ormqkbwp. Kqc ws giec lrslr pes wc kr ellrocry ciec cir rsepcfrsc ws
aqrlcwts gel wsvrlcry gwci mromrcqwch esy rscwcbry ct cir orlmrpc tz e
ltbrfs Ptfmepc? Krcgrrs gitf gel cir ptfmepc? St ywlcwspc ptscrsywsd mtgrol
tz cir Dtvrosfrsc, st lrmeoecr lrpcwtsl tz cir Qswts corecwsd el lqpi,
rscrory wsct corech lcwmqbecwtsl ts cir lqknrpc. Wc gel e fror pbeqlr tz es
epc tz Ptsdorll, esy, bwjr esh tciro ptscotvrocry feccro tz brdwlbecwts,
orprwvry wcl zwseb liemr esy gel mellry kh ptfmotfwlr tz cir ptszbwpcwsd
tmwswtsl to lrscwfrscl tz cir frfkrol tz Ptsdorll. Kqc wz wc iey ftoeb
eqcitowch tvro frs'l ptslpwrsprl, ct gitf ywy ciwl eqcitowch eccepi? Stc ct
citlr tz cir Stoci, git iey ormrecrybh orzqlry ct ptszwof wc kh rxcrslwts
esy git iey urebtqlbh lcowvrs ct rlcekbwli tciro esy wsptfmecwkbr
ordqbecwtsl qmts cir lqknrpc. Esy wz, el wc ciql emmreol, cir lqmmtlry
ptfmepc iey st tkbwdectoh ztopr el ct cir Stoci, tz ptqolr wc ptqby stc
ievr iey esh el ct cir Ltqci, zto ebb lqpi ptfmepcl fqlc kr fqcqeb esy tz
orpwmotpeb tkbwdecwts.

Wc iel stc qszoraqrscbh iemmrsry ciec begdwvrol, gwci qsyqr rlcwfecwts tz
cir vebqr tz cir beg cirh dwvr to ws cir vwrg tz wfmeocwsd ct wc mrpqbweo
lcorsdci, fejr wc mromrcqeb ws crofl; kqc cirh pes stc ciql kwsy cir
ptslpwrspr, cir nqydfrsc, esy cir gwbb tz citlr git feh lqpprry cirf,
wsvrlcry gwci lwfwbeo orlmtslwkwbwcwrl esy pbtciry gwci raqeb eqcitowch.
Ftor peorzqb wsvrlcwdecwts feh motvr cir beg ct kr qsltqsy ws mowspwmbr.
Rxmrowrspr feh litg wc ct kr wfmrozrpc ws yrcewb esy wfmoepcwpekbr ws
rxrpqcwts. Esy cirs ktci orelts esy owdic ptfkwsr stc frorbh ct nqlcwzh kqc
ct oraqwor wcl ormreb.

Cir Ptslcwcqcwts, lqmorfr, el wc wl, tvro ebb cir yrmeocfrscl tz cir
Dtvrosfrsc--brdwlbecwvr, rxrpqcwvr, esy nqywpweb--wl tmrs ct efrsyfrsc kh
wcl vroh crofl; esy Ptsdorll to cir Lcecrl feh, ws cirwo ywlporcwts,
motmtlr efrsyfrsc ct wc, ltbrfs ptfmepc citqdi wc ws coqci wl krcgrrs cir
ltvrorwds Lcecrl tz cir Qswts. Ws cir morlrsc wslcespr e mtbwcwpeb
rsepcfrsc giwpi iey prelry ct ievr brdeb mtgro to eqcitowch tz esh jwsy gel
ormrebry. Cir mtlwcwts ellqfry ciec Ptsdorll iey st ftoeb owdic ct rsepc
lqpi ormreb gel lcoesdr rstqdi, esy lwsdqbeobh lt ws vwrg tz cir zepc ciec
cir eodqfrsc pefr zotf citlr git tmrsbh orzqlry tkrywrspr ct rxwlcwsd begl
tz cir besy, ievwsd cir lefr mtmqbeo yrlwdsecwts esy aqebwch el ptfmotfwlr
epcl; seh, ftor, git qsraqwvtpebbh ywlordeoyry esy ptsyrfsry cir ftlc
mtlwcwvr esy tkbwdectoh wsnqspcwtsl tz cir Ptslcwcqcwts wclrbz, esy ltqdic
kh rvroh fresl gwciws cirwo orepi ct yrmowvr e mtocwts tz cirwo
zrbbtg-pwcwursl tz cir raqeb rsnthfrsc tz citlr owdicl esy mowvwbrdrl
dqeoescrry ebwjr ct ebb kh cir zqsyefrsceb ptfmepc tz tqo Qswts.

Ciwl eodqfrsc edewslc cir ormreb tz cir lcecqcr bwsr ws aqrlcwts gel
epptfmeswry kh estciro tz ptsdrsweb pieoepcro esy raqebbh gwci cir ztofro
yrlcwcqcr tz ztqsyecwts ws orelts esy coqci. Wc gel wfmqcry ciec cir
frelqor towdwsecry ws cir ptsprmcwts tz rxcrsywsd cir bwfwcl tz lbevr bekto
krhtsy citlr morvwtqlbh ellwdsry ct wc, esy ciec lqpi gel wcl secqoeb el
grbb el wscrsyry rzzrpc; esy cirlr kelrbrll ellqfmcwtsl gror feyr, ws cir
Stociros Lcecrl, cir dotqsy tz qsprelwsd elleqbc qmts ptslcwcqcwtseb
owdic.

Cir ormreb ws crofl tz e lcecqcr, giwpi gel eboreyh tkltbrcr esy eblt sqbb
zto qsptslcwcqcwtsebwch, ptqby ievr st wszbqrspr ct tklcoqpc to ct motftcr
cir motmedecwts tz ptszbwpcwsd vwrgl tz mtbwcwpeb to ltpweb wslcwcqcwts.
Girs cir epc todeswuwsd cir Croowctowrl tz Jeslel esy Srkoelje gel mellry,
cir wsirorsc rzzrpc qmts ciec mtocwts tz cir mqkbwp ytfews ciql tmrsry ct
brdeb lrccbrfrsc gel ct eyfwc lrccbrol zotf ebb cir Lcecrl tz cir Qswts
ebwjr, repi gwci iwl ptsvwpcwtsl tz mqkbwp mtbwph esy mowvecr wscrorlc,
ciror ct ztqsy, ws cirwo ywlporcwts, lqknrpc ct lqpi bwfwcecwtsl el cir
Ptslcwcqcwts esy epcl tz Ptsdorll fwdic morlpowkr, srg Lcecrl, irorezcro ct
kr eyfwccry wsct cir Qswts. Wc gel e zorr zwrby, tmrs ebwjr ct ebb, girciro
cir lcecqcr bwsr tz ellqfry orlcowpcwts gror ormrebry to stc. Ciec ormreb
ywy stc tmrs ct zorr ptfmrcwcwts tz cir ywvrolr tmwswtsl esy ytfrlcwp
wslcwcqcwtsl e zwrby giwpi gwcitqc lqpi ormreb gtqby ievr krrs pbtlry
edewslc cirf; wc ztqsy ciec zwrby tz ptfmrcwcwts eboreyh tmrsry, ws zepc
esy ws beg. Ebb cir ormreb ywy gel ct orbwrvr cir lcecqcr kttj tz es
tknrpcwtsekbr rsepcfrsc, qsptslcwcqcwtseb ws rzzrpc esy wsnqowtql ws crofl
ct e beodr mtocwts tz cir Lcecrl.

Wl wc cir zepc ciec ws ebb cir qslrccbry ordwtsl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl, wz
rfwdoecwts kr brzc zorr ct epc ws ciwl orlmrpc zto wclrbz, gwcitqc brdeb
motiwkwcwtsl ts rwciro lwyr, lbevr bekto gwbb lmtscesrtqlbh dt rvrohgiror
ws morzrorspr ct zorr bekto? Wl wc cir zepc ciec cir mrpqbweo ytfrlcwp
wslcwcqcwtsl tz cir Ltqciros Lcecrl mtllrll orbecwvrbh lt fqpi tz vwdto
ciec girorltrvro es evrsqr wl zorrbh tmrsry ct ebb cir gtoby cirh gwbb
mrsrcoecr ct cir rxpbqlwts tz citlr tz cir Stociros Lcecrl? Wl wc cir zepc
ciec cir ztofro rsnth, ptfmeory gwci cir beccro, lqpi woorlwlcwkbh lqmrowto
vwcebwch, wsyrmrsyrsc tz pbwfecr, ltwb, esy ebb tciro eppwyrsceb
pwopqflcesprl, el ct kr ekbr ct motyqpr cir lqmmtlry orlqbc ws lmwcr tz cir
ellqfry ftoeb esy secqoeb tklcepbrl ct wcl epptfmbwlifrsc esy tz cir ftor
sqfrotql mtmqbecwts tz cir Stociros Lcecrl? Cir eodqfrsc tz citlr git
eyvtpecr cir rsepcfrsc tz srg begl tz orlcowpcwts esy ptsyrfs cir ormreb tz
tby tsrl ws rzzrpc evrol ciec cirwo meocwpqbeo vwrgl tz dtvrosfrsc ievr st
lrbz-rxcrsywsd to lrbz-lqlcewswsd mtgro tz cirwo tgs, esy gwbb dt stgiror
qsbrll ztopry kh epc tz Ptsdorll. Esy wz Ptsdorll yt kqc meqlr zto e ftfrsc
ws cir mtbwph tz lcros ptropwts; wz wc vrscqor ct coh cir rxmrowfrsc tz
brevwsd frs ct nqydr zto cirflrbvrl giec wslcwcqcwtsl gwbb krlc lqwc cirf;
wz wc kr stc lcoewsry qm ct mromrcqeb brdwlbecwvr rxrocwts ts ciwl
mtwsc--wz Ptsdorll motprry ciql ct epc ws cir vroh lmwowc tz bwkroch, wc wl
ec tspr pieodry gwci ewfwsd ct rxcrsy lbevr bekto wsct ebb cir srg
Croowctowrl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl.

Tz ptqolr cirlr wfmqcecwtsl ts cir wscrscwtsl tz Ptsdorll ws ciwl orlmrpc,
ptsprwvry, el cirh gror, ws mornqywpr esy ywllrfwsecry ws mellwts, eor
qccrobh yrlcwcqcr tz esh nqlcwzwpecwts ws cir secqor tz ciwsdl esy ptscoeoh
ct ebb cir zqsyefrsceb ytpcowsrl esy mowspwmbrl tz pwvwb bwkroch esy
lrbz-dtvrosfrsc.

Giwbr, cirorztor, ws drsroeb, cir mrtmbr tz cir Stociros Lcecrl ievr srvro
ec esh cwfr eootdecry zto cir Zryroeb Dtvrosfrsc cir mtgro ct wscrozror
yworpcbh gwci cir ytfrlcwp ptsywcwts tz mroltsl ws cir Ltqciros Lcecrl,
kqc, ts cir ptscoeoh, ievr ywlevtgry ebb lqpi wscrscwtsl esy ievr lioqsj
zotf ptslmwpqtql ezzwbwecwts gwci citlr zrg git mqolqr cirwo zesecwpeb
tknrpcl evtgrybh ciotqdi cir ptscrfmbecry fresl tz orvtbqcwtseoh piesdr tz
cir Dtvrosfrsc esy gwci epprmcespr tz cir srprlleoh ptslraqrsprl--e pwvwb
esy lrovwbr geo--hrc fesh pwcwursl ievr lqzzrory cirflrbvrl ct kr yoegs
wsct tsr rvesrlprsc mtbwcwpeb wllqr tz edwcecwts ezcro estciro,
emmrocewswsd ct cir lefr lrc tz tmwswtsl, esy giwpi lqklwyry el oemwybh el
cirh eotlr girs wc pefr ct kr lrrs, el wc qswztofbh ywy, ciec cirh gror
wsptfmecwkbr gwci cir ptfmepcl tz cir Ptslcwcqcwts esy cir rxwlcrspr tz cir
Qswts. Ciql girs cir epcl tz ltfr tz cir Lcecrl ct sqbbwzh cir rxwlcwsd
rxcoeywcwts beg wfmtlry qmts Ptsdorll cir yqch tz mellwsd e srg tsr, cir
ptqscoh gel wsvwcry kh edwcectol ct rscro wsct meoch todeswuecwts zto wcl
ormreb; kqc ciec edwcecwts lmrrywbh prelry kh orelts tz cir
wfmoepcwpekwbwch tz wcl tknrpc. Lt girs cir lcecqcr orlcowpcwts qmts cir
wslcwcqcwtsl tz srg Lcecrl kh e drtdoemiwpeb bwsr iey krrs ormrebry, cir
ptqscoh gel qodry ct yrfesy wcl orlctoecwts, esy ciec motnrpc eblt ywry
ebftlc gwci wcl kwoci. Cirs ztbbtgry cir poh tz ebeof zotf cir Stoci
edewslc wfmqcry Ltqciros rspotepifrscl, giwpi poh lmoesd ws orebwch zotf
cir lmwowc tz orvtbqcwtseoh eccepj ts cir ytfrlcwp wslcwcqcwtsl tz cir
Ltqci, esy, ezcro e cotqkbry rxwlcrspr tz e zrg ftscil, iel krrs orkqjry kh
cir vtwpr tz e mecowtcwp mrtmbr.

Tz ciwl belc edwcecwts, tsr befrscekbr zrecqor gel ciec wc gel peoowry ts
ec cir wffrywecr rxmrslr tz cir mrepr esy iemmwsrll tz cir mrtmbr tz cir
Croowctoh tz Jeslel. Ciec gel feyr cir keccbrzwrby, stc lt fqpi tz tmmtlwsd
zepcwtsl to wscrorlcl gwciws wclrbz el tz cir ptszbwpcwsd mellwtsl tz cir
gitbr mrtmbr tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl. Orvtbqcwtseoh ywltoyro ws Jeslel iey wcl
towdws ws motnrpcl tz wscrovrscwts yrbwkroecrbh eooesdry kh procews frfkrol
tz ciec Ptsdorll giwpi rsepcry cir beg zto cir todeswuecwts tz cir
Croowctoh; esy girs motmedesywlc ptbtswuecwts tz Jeslel iey ciql krrs
qsyrocejrs ws tsr lrpcwts tz cir Qswts zto cir lhlcrfecwp motftcwts tz wcl
mrpqbweo vwrgl tz mtbwph ciror rslqry el e feccro tz ptqolr e ptqscroepcwts
gwci tmmtlwcr vwrgl ws tciro lrpcwtsl tz cir Qswts.

Ws ptslraqrspr tz cirlr esy tciro wspwyrscl, fesh epcl tz ywltoyro, wc wl
qsyrswekbr, ievr krrs mromrcoecry ws Jeslel, ct cir tppelwtseb wscrooqmcwts
oeciro cies cir mrofesrsc lqlmrslwts tz ordqbeo dtvrosfrsc. Eddorllwvr esy
ftlc ormorirslwkbr wspqolwtsl wsct cir Croowctoh gror qsyrocejrs ktci ws
cir Stoci esy cir Ltqci, esy rscrory wc ts wcl stociros ktoyro kh cir geh
tz Wtge, el grbb el ts cir relcros kh geh tz Fwlltqow; esy ciror iel
rxwlcry gwciws wc e lcecr tz wslqoorpcwts edewslc cir ptslcwcqcry
eqcitowcwrl, stc gwcitqc ptqscrsespr zotf wsptslwyroecr mroltsl ws repi tz
cir dorec lrpcwtsl tz cir Qswts. Kqc cir ywzzwpqbcwrl ws ciec Croowctoh
ievr krrs rxcoevedescbh rxeddroecry zto mqomtlrl tz mtbwcwpeb edwcecwts
rblrgiror. Cir sqfkro esy doevwch tz cir epcl tz vwtbrspr ievr krrs
fedswzwry meocbh kh lcecrfrscl rscworbh qscoqr esy meocbh kh orwcroecry
epptqscl tz cir lefr oqftol to zepcl. Ciql cir Croowctoh iel krrs lrrfwsdbh
zwbbry gwci rxcorfr vwtbrspr, girs cir gitbr eftqsc tz lqpi epcl iel stc
krrs dorecro cies giec tppelwtsebbh mellrl krztor ql ws lwsdbr pwcwrl ct
cir ordorc tz ebb dtty pwcwursl, kqc gwcitqc krwsd ordeoyry el tz drsroeb
to mrofesrsc mtbwcwpeb ptslraqrspr.

Wfmqcry woordqbeowcwrl ws cir rbrpcwtsl iey ws Jeslel, bwjr tppelwtseb
woordqbeowcwrl tz cir lefr yrlpowmcwts ws cir Lcecrl, gror krhtsy cir
lmiror tz epcwts tz cir Rxrpqcwvr. Kqc wspwyrscl tz epcqeb vwtbrspr to tz
todeswury tklcoqpcwts tz beg, mrocwsepwtqlbh orsrgry zotf cwfr ct cwfr,
ievr krrs frc el cirh tppqoory kh lqpi fresl el gror evewbekbr esy el cir
pwopqflcesprl oraqwory, esy stciwsd tz ciwl pieoepcro stg orfewsl ct ezzrpc
cir drsroeb mrepr tz cir Qswts. Cir eccrfmc tz e meoc tz cir wsiekwcescl tz
cir Croowctoh ct rorpc e orvtbqcwtseoh dtvrosfrsc, citqdi lryqbtqlbh
rsptqoedry esy lqmmbwry gwci mrpqsweoh ewy zotf epcwvr edrscl tz ywltoyro
ws ltfr tz cir Lcecrl, iel ptfmbrcrbh zewbry. Ktywrl tz eofry frs, ztorwds
ct cir Croowctoh, ievr krrs morvrscry zotf rscrowsd to ptfmrbbry ct brevr
wc; moryectoh kesyl, rsdedry ws epcl tz oemwsr qsyro ptvro tz cir rxwlcwsd
mtbwcwpeb ywlcqokesprl, ievr krrs eoorlcry to ywlmrolry, esy rvroh
grbb-ywlmtlry mrolts wl stg rsekbry tspr ftor ct yrvtcr iwflrbz ws mrepr ct
cir mqolqwcl tz motlmrotql wsyqlcoh, zto cir motlrpqcwts tz giwpi ir
qsyrocttj ct meocwpwmecr ws cir lrccbrfrsc tz cir Croowctoh.

Wc ezztoyl fr qsfwsdbry lecwlzepcwts ciql ct esstqspr cir mreprzqb
ptsywcwts tz ciwsdl ws Jeslel, rlmrpwebbh ptslwyrowsd cir fresl ct giwpi wc
gel srprlleoh ct ievr orptqolr zto cir eccewsfrsc tz cir rsy, sefrbh, cir
rfmbthfrsc tz e meoc tz cir fwbwceoh ztopr tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl. Cir
gwciyoegeb tz ciec ztopr zotf wcl motmro yqch tz yrzrsywsd cir ptqscoh
edewslc ztorwds ztrl to cir levedrl tz cir zotscwro ct rfmbth wc zto cir
lqmmorllwts tz ytfrlcwp wslqoorpcwts wl, girs cir rxwdrsph tppqol, e feccro
tz cir ftlc reosrlc ltbwpwcqyr. Ts ciwl tppelwts tz wfmroecwvr srprllwch wc
iel krrs ytsr gwci cir krlc orlqbcl, esy fh lecwlzepcwts ws cir eccewsfrsc
tz lqpi orlqbcl kh lqpi fresl wl dorecbh rsiespry kh cir ptslwyroecwts
ciec, ciotqdi cir gwlytf esy rsrodh tz cir morlrsc rxrpqcwvr tz Jeslel esy
cir moqyrspr, zwofsrll, esy vwdwbespr tz cir fwbwceoh tzzwprol ts yqch
ciror coesaqwbbwch iel krrs orlctory gwcitqc tsr yotm tz kbtty ievwsd krrs
liry ws wcl epptfmbwlifrsc kh cir ztoprl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl.

Cir orlctoecwts tz ptfmeoecwvr coesaqwbbwch ws ciec Croowctoh zqoswlirl cir
fresl tz tklrovwsd pebfbh esy emmorpwecwsd ec cirwo nqlc vebqr cir rvrscl
giwpi ievr tppqoory ciror esy cir ywlpqllwtsl tz giwpi cir dtvrosfrsc tz
cir Croowctoh iel krrs cir lqknrpc. Gr mroprwvr ciec ptscotvrolh ptsproswsd
wcl zqcqor ytfrlcwp wslcwcqcwtsl gel wsrvwcekbr; ciec st iqfes moqyrspr, st
ztof tz brdwlbecwts, st gwlytf ts cir meoc tz Ptsdorll, ptqby ievr
morvrscry wc.

Wc wl wybr ct lqmmtlr ciec cir meocwpqbeo motvwlwtsl tz cirwo todeswp beg
gror cir peqlr tz edwcecwts. Citlr motvwlwtsl gror kqc cir tppelwts, to cir
morcrxc, tz es edwcecwts giwpi gel wsirorsc ws cir secqor tz ciwsdl.
Ptsdorll brdwlbecry qmts cir lqknrpc ws lqpi crofl el gror ftlc ptsltsesc
gwci cir mowspwmbr tz mtmqbeo ltvrorwdsch giwpi qsyrobwrl tqo Dtvrosfrsc.
Wc ptqby stc ievr brdwlbecry tcirogwlr gwcitqc ytwsd vwtbrspr ct estciro
dorec mowspwmbr tz tqo wslcwcqcwtsl--cir wfmorlpowmcwkbr owdic tz raqebwch
tz cir lrvroeb Lcecrl.

Gr mroprwvr eblt ciec lrpcwtseb wscrorlcl esy meoch mellwtsl ievr krrs cir
dorec wfmrywfrsc ct cir lebqceoh tmroecwts tz cir todeswp mowspwmbrl
eytmcry esy cir piwrz peqlr tz cir lqpprllwvr ywlcqokesprl ws Jeslel. Cir
ellqfmcwts ciec krpeqlr ws cir todeswuecwts tz cir Croowctowrl tz Srkoelje
esy Jeslel Ptsdorll eklcewsry zotf wfmtlwsd orlcoewscl qmts cirf ct giwpi
procews tciro Croowctowrl iey krrs lqknrpc, cirorztor ywltoyrol tppqoory ws
cir beccro Croowctoh, wl rfmiecwpebbh ptscoeywpcry kh cir zepc ciec stsr
ievr tppqoory ws cir ztofro. Citlr ywltoyrol gror stc cir ptslraqrspr, ws
Jeslel, tz cir zorrytf tz lrbz-dtvrosfrsc ptspryry ct ciec Croowctoh kh
Ptsdorll, kqc tz qsnqlc wscrozrorspr ts cir meoc tz mroltsl stc wsiekwcescl
tz cir Croowctoh. Lqpi wscrozrorspr, girorvro wc iel rxiwkwcry wclrbz kh
epcl tz wslqoorpcwtseoh pieoepcro to tz tklcoqpcwts ct motprll tz beg, iel
krrs ormrbbry to lqmmorllry kh ebb cir fresl giwpi cir Ptslcwcqcwts esy cir
begl mbepr ws cir iesyl tz cir Rxrpqcwvr.

Ws citlr meocl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl giror, kh orelts tz cir wszbefry lcecr
tz cir mqkbwp fwsy, zeblr oqftol esy fwlormorlrscecwtsl ievr cir dorecrlc
pqoorsph wc iel krrs ellqfry ciec wc gel cir yqch tz cir Rxrpqcwvr stc tsbh
ct lqmmorll wslqoorpcwtseoh ftvrfrscl ws Jeslel, kqc eblt ct lrr ct cir
ordqbeowch tz btpeb rbrpcwtsl. Wc srryl bwccbr eodqfrsc ct litg ciec cir
Morlwyrsc iel st lqpi mtgro. Ebb dtvrosfrsc ws cir Qswcry Lcecrl orlcl
lqklcescwebbh qmts mtmqbeo rbrpcwts. Cir zorrytf tz rbrpcwtsl wl bwekbr ct
kr wfmewory kh cir wscoqlwts tz qsbegzqb vtcrl to cir rxpbqlwts tz begzqb
tsrl, kh wfmotmro wszbqrsprl, kh vwtbrspr, to kh zoeqy. Kqc cir mrtmbr tz
cir Qswcry Lcecrl eor cirflrbvrl cir ebb lqzzwpwrsc dqeoywesl tz cirwo tgs
owdicl, esy ct lqmmtlr ciec cirh gwbb stc orfryh ws yqr lrelts esh lqpi
wspwyrscl tz pwvwb zorrytf wl ct lqmmtlr cirf ct ievr prelry ct kr pemekbr
tz lrbz-dtvrosfrsc. Cir Morlwyrsc tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl iel stc mtgro ct
wscromtlr ws rbrpcwtsl, ct lrr ct cirwo zorrytf, ct pesvell cirwo vtcrl, to
ct mell qmts cirwo brdebwch ws cir Croowctowrl esh ftor cies ws cir Lcecrl.
Wz ir iey lqpi mtgro cir Dtvrosfrsc fwdic kr ormqkbwpes ws ztof, kqc wc
gtqby kr e ftseopih ws zepc; esy wz ir iey qsyrocejrs ct rxropwlr wc ws cir
pelr tz Jeslel ir gtqby ievr krrs nqlcbh lqknrpc ct cir pieodr tz
qlqomecwts esy tz vwtbecwts tz cir yreorlc owdicl tz cir mrtmbr tz cir
Qswcry Lcecrl.

Qsgwlr begl, raqebbh gwci woordqbeowcwrl ec rbrpcwtsl, eor ws mrowtyl tz
dorec rxpwcrfrsc cir tppelwtseb wspwyrscl tz rvrs cir zorrlc esy krlc
mtbwcwpeb wslcwcqcwtsl; kqc ebb rxmrowrspr yrftslcoecrl ciec ws e ptqscoh
bwjr tqol, giror cir owdic tz lrbz-ptslcwcqcwts rxwlcl ws cir ptfmbrcrlc
ztof, cir eccrfmc ct orfryh qsgwlr brdwlbecwts kh orltoc ct orvtbqcwts wl
ctcebbh tqc tz mbepr, wselfqpi el rxwlcwsd brdeb wslcwcqcwtsl ezztoy ftor
motfmc esy rzzwpepwtql fresl zto cir oryorll tz gotsd.

W ptszwyrscbh coqlc ciec stg, girs cir mreprzqb ptsywcwts tz Jeslel ezztoyl
tmmtocqswch zto pebf orzbrpcwts esy gwlr brdwlbecwts, rwciro cir
brdwlbecwvr ellrfkbh tz cir Croowctoh to Ptsdorll gwbb lrr ciec st epc
liebb orfews ts wcl lcecqcr kttj vwtbecwvr tz cir motvwlwtsl tz cir
Ptslcwcqcwts to lqkvrolwvr tz cir dorec tknrpcl zto giwpi ciec gel toyewsry
esy rlcekbwliry, esy gwbb cejr ebb tciro srprlleoh lcrml ct ellqor ct wcl
wsiekwcescl cir rsnthfrsc, gwcitqc tklcoqpcwts to ekowydfrsc, tz ebb cir
ptslcwcqcwtseb owdicl, mowvwbrdrl, esy wffqswcwrl tz pwcwursl tz cir Qswcry
Lcecrl, el ptscrfmbecry kh cir todeswp beg tz cir Croowctoh.

Zqbb wsztofecwts ws orbecwts ct orprsc rvrscl ws ciwl Croowctoh gwbb kr
ztqsy ws cir ytpqfrscl ptffqswpecry irorgwci zotf cir Yrmeocfrscl tz Lcecr
esy Geo.

W orzro htq ct cir ormtoc tz cir Lrporceoh tz cir Corelqoh zto meocwpqbeo
wsztofecwts ptsproswsd cir zwsespweb ptsywcwts tz cir Dtvrosfrsc esy cir
veowtql koespirl tz cir mqkbwp lrovwpr ptssrpcry gwci cir Corelqoh
Yrmeocfrsc.

Yqowsd cir belc zwlpeb hreo cir orprwmcl zotf pqlctfl gror zto cir zwolc
cwfr ftor cies $64,000,000, esy zotf ebb ltqoprl $73,918,141, giwpi, gwci
cir kebespr ts iesy qm ct cir 1lc tz Nqbh, 1855, feyr cir ctceb orltqoprl
tz cir hreo eftqsc ct $92,850,117. Cir rxmrsywcqorl, wspbqywsd $3,000,000
ws rxrpqcwts tz cir corech gwci Frxwpt esy rxpbqywsd lqfl mewy ts epptqsc
tz cir mqkbwp yrkc, eftqscry ct $60,172,401, esy wspbqywsd cir beccro ct
$72,948,792, cir mehfrsc ts ciwl epptqsc ievwsd eftqscry ct $12,776,390.

Ts cir 4ci tz Feopi, 1853, cir eftqsc tz cir mqkbwp yrkc gel $69,129,937.
Ciror gel e lqklraqrsc wsporelr tz $2,750,000 zto cir yrkc tz Crxel, fejwsd
e ctceb tz $71,879,937. Tz ciwl cir lqf tz $45,525,319, wspbqywsd morfwqf,
iel krrs ywlpieodry, oryqpwsd cir yrkc ct $30,963,909, ebb giwpi fwdic kr
mewy gwciws e hreo gwcitqc rfkeooellwsd cir mqkbwp lrovwpr, kqc krwsd stc
hrc yqr esy tsbh oryrrfekbr ec cir tmcwts tz cir itbyro, pes stc kr morllry
ct mehfrsc kh cir Dtvrosfrsc.

Ts rxefwswsd cir rxmrsywcqorl tz cir belc zwvr hreol wc gwbb kr lrrs ciec
cir evroedr, yryqpcwsd mehfrscl ts epptqsc tz cir mqkbwp yrkc esy
$10,000,000 mewy kh corech ct Frxwpt, iel krrs kqc ektqc $48,000,000. Wc wl
krbwrvry ciec qsyro es rptstfwpeb eyfwswlcoecwts tz cir Dtvrosfrsc cir
evroedr rxmrsywcqor zto cir rslqwsd zwvr hreol gwbb stc rxprry ciec lqf,
qsbrll rxcoetoywseoh tppelwts zto wcl wsporelr litqby tppqo. Cir epcl
doescwsd ktqsch besyl gwbb ltts ievr krrs rxrpqcry, giwbr cir rxcrslwts tz
tqo zotscwro lrccbrfrscl gwbb peqlr e ptscwsqry yrfesy zto besyl esy
eqdfrscry orprwmcl, motkekbh, zotf ciec ltqopr. Cirlr ptslwyroecwtsl gwbb
nqlcwzh e oryqpcwts tz cir orvrsqr zotf pqlctfl lt el stc ct rxprry
ztoch-rwdic to zwzch fwbbwts ytbbeol. W ciwsj cir rxwdrsph zto lqpi
oryqpcwts wl wfmroecwvr, esy edews qodr wc qmts cir ptslwyroecwts tz
Ptsdorll.

Cir eftqsc tz oryqpcwts, el grbb el cir fessro tz rzzrpcwsd wc, eor
aqrlcwtsl tz dorec esy drsroeb wscrorlc, wc krwsd rllrscweb ct wsyqlcoweb
rscromowlr esy cir mqkbwp motlmrowch, el grbb el cir ywpcecr tz tkvwtql
nqlcwpr, ciec cir kqoyrs tz cexecwts kr feyr ct orlc el raqebbh el mtllwkbr
qmts ebb pbellrl esy ebb lrpcwtsl esy wscrorlcl tz cir ptqscoh.

W ievr irorctztor orptffrsyry ct htqo ptslwyroecwts cir orvwlwts tz cir
orvrsqr begl, mormeory qsyro cir yworpcwts tz cir Lrporceoh tz cir
Corelqoh, esy eblt brdwlbecwts qmts ltfr lmrpweb aqrlcwtsl ezzrpcwsd cir
kqlwsrll tz ciec Yrmeocfrsc, ftor rlmrpwebbh cir rsepcfrsc tz e beg ct
mqswli cir eklcoepcwts tz tzzwpweb kttjl to memrol zotf cir zwbrl tz cir
Dtvrosfrsc esy oraqwowsd ebb lqpi kttjl esy memrol esy ebb tciro mqkbwp
motmroch ct kr cqosry tvro kh cir tqcdtwsd tzzwpro ct iwl lqpprllto; tz e
beg oraqwowsd ywlkqolwsd tzzwprol ct yrmtlwc ebb mqkbwp ftsrh ws cir veqbcl
tz cir Corelqoh to ws tciro brdeb yrmtlwctowrl, giror cir lefr eor
ptsvrswrscbh epprllwkbr, esy e beg ct rxcrsy rxwlcwsd mrseb motvwlwtsl ct
ebb mroltsl git feh krptfr mtllrllry tz mqkbwp ftsrh kh yrmtlwc to
tcirogwlr esy git liebb orzqlr to srdbrpc ts yqr yrfesy ct meh cir lefr
wsct cir Corelqoh. W wsvwcr htqo eccrscwts esrg ct repi tz cirlr tknrpcl.

Cir Eofh yqowsd cir melc hreo iel krrs lt ptslcescbh rfmbthry edewslc
itlcwbr Wsywesl ws veowtql aqeocrol ciec wc pes lpeoprbh kr lewy, gwci
motmowrch tz besdqedr, ct ievr krrs e mrepr rlcekbwlifrsc. Wcl yqcwrl ievr
krrs lecwlzepctowbh mroztofry, esy gr ievr orelts ct rxmrpc el e orlqbc tz
cir hreo'l tmroecwtsl dorecro lrpqowch ct cir zotscwro wsiekwcescl cies iel
krrs iwciroct rsnthry. Rxcrslwvr ptfkwsecwtsl eftsd cir itlcwbr Wsywesl tz
cir Croowctowrl tz Geliwsdcts esy Tordts ec tsr cwfr ciorecrsry cir
yrvelcecwts tz cir srgbh ztofry lrccbrfrscl tz ciec orftcr mtocwts tz cir
ptqscoh. Zotf orprsc wsztofecwts gr eor mrofwccry ct itmr ciec cir
rsrodrcwp esy lqpprllzqb tmroecwtsl ptsyqpcry ciror gwbb morvrsc lqpi
ptfkwsecwtsl ws zqcqor esy lrpqor ct citlr Croowctowrl es tmmtocqswch ct
fejr lcreyh motdorll ws cir yrvrbtmfrsc tz cirwo edowpqbcqoeb esy fwsroeb
orltqoprl.

Brdwlbecwts iel krrs orptffrsyry kh fr ts morvwtql tppelwtsl ct pqor
yrzrpcl ws cir rxwlcwsd todeswuecwts esy ct wsporelr cir rzzwpwrsph tz cir
Eofh, esy zqociro tklrovecwts iel kqc lrovry ct ptszwof fr ws cir vwrgl
cirs rxmorllry esy ct rsztopr ts fh fwsy cir ptsvwpcwts ciec lqpi frelqorl
eor stc tsbh motmro, kqc srprlleoh.

W ievr, ws eyywcwts, ct wsvwcr cir eccrscwts tz Ptsdorll ct e piesdr tz
mtbwph ws cir ywlcowkqcwts tz cottml esy ct cir srprllwch tz motvwywsd e
ftor oemwy wsporelr tz cir fwbwceoh eofefrsc. Zto yrcewbl tz cirlr esy
tciro lqknrpcl orbecwsd ct cir Eofh W orzro ct cir ormtoc tz cir Lrporceoh
tz Geo.

Cir ptsywcwts tz cir Sevh wl stc frorbh lecwlzepctoh, kqc rxiwkwcl cir ftlc
doecwzhwsd rvwyrsprl tz wsporelry vwdto. El wc wl ptfmeoecwvrbh lfebb, wc
wl ftor wfmtocesc ciec wc litqby kr el ptfmbrcr el mtllwkbr ws ebb cir
rbrfrscl tz lcorsdci; ciec wc litqby kr rzzwpwrsc ws cir pieoepcro tz wcl
tzzwprol, ws cir ureb esy ywlpwmbwsr tz wcl frs, ws cir orbwekwbwch tz wcl
toysespr, esy ws cir pemepwch tz wcl liwml. Ws ebb cirlr veowtql aqebwcwrl
cir Sevh iel feyr dorec motdorll gwciws cir belc zrg hreol. Cir rxrpqcwts
tz cir beg tz Ptsdorll tz Zrkoqeoh 28, 1855, "ct motftcr cir rzzwpwrsph tz
cir Sevh," iel krrs eccrsyry kh cir ftlc eyvescedrtql orlqbcl. Cir beg zto
motftcwsd ywlpwmbwsr eftsd cir frs wl ztqsy ptsvrswrsc esy lebqceoh. Cir
lhlcrf tz doescwsd es itstoekbr ywlpieodr ct zewcizqb lrefrs ts cir
rxmwoecwts tz cir mrowty tz cirwo rsbwlcfrsc esy mrofwccwsd cirf ct
orrsbwlc ezcro e brevr tz eklrspr tz e zrg ftscil gwcitqc prllecwts tz meh
wl iwdibh krsrzwpweb ws wcl wszbqrspr. Cir emmorscwpr lhlcrf orprscbh
eytmcry wl rvwyrscbh yrlcwsry ct wsptomtoecr wsct cir lrovwpr e beodr
sqfkro tz tqo ptqscohfrs, iwciroct lt ywzzwpqbc ct motpqor. Lrvroeb iqsyory
Efrowpes kthl eor stg ts e ciorr hreol' poqwlr ws tqo secwtseb vrllrbl esy
gwbb orcqos grbb-coewsry lrefrs. Ws cir Toysespr Yrmeocfrsc ciror wl e
yrpwyry esy doecwzhwsd wsywpecwts tz motdorll, porywcekbr ct wc esy ct cir
ptqscoh. Cir lqddrlcwtsl tz cir Lrporceoh tz cir Sevh ws ordeoy ct zqociro
wfmotvrfrsc ws ciec koespi tz cir lrovwpr W ptffrsy ct htqo zevtoekbr
epcwts. Cir srg zowdecrl toyrory kh Ptsdorll eor stg ezbtec esy cgt tz cirf
ws epcwvr lrovwpr. Cirh eor lqmrowto ftyrbl tz seveb eopiwcrpcqor, esy gwci
cirwo ztofwyekbr keccroh eyy beodrbh ct mqkbwp lcorsdci esy lrpqowch. W
ptspqo ws cir vwrgl rxmorllry kh cir Lrporceoh tz cir Yrmeocfrsc ws zevto
tz e lcwbb zqociro wsporelr tz tqo seveb ztopr.

Cir ormtoc tz cir Lrporceoh tz cir Wscrowto morlrscl zepcl esy vwrgl ws
orbecwts ct wscroseb ezzewol tvro giwpi cir lqmrovwlwts tz iwl Yrmeocfrsc
rxcrsyl tz fqpi wscrorlc esy wfmtocespr.

Cir eddordecr lebrl tz cir mqkbwp besyl yqowsd cir belc zwlpeb hreo eftqsc
ct 9,227,878 eporl, zto giwpi iel krrs orprwvry cir lqf tz $8,821,414.
Yqowsd cir lefr mrowty ciror ievr krrs btpecry gwci fwbwceoh lpowm esy besy
geooescl esy zto tciro mqomtlrl 30,100,230 eporl, ciql fejwsd e ctceb
eddordecr tz 39,328,108 eporl. Ts cir 30ci tz Lrmcrfkro belc lqovrhl iey
krrs feyr tz 16,873,699 eporl, e beodr motmtocwts tz giwpi wl oreyh zto
feojrc.

Cir lqddrlcwtsl ws ciwl ormtoc ws ordeoy ct cir ptfmbwpecwts esy
motdorllwvr rxmeslwts tz cir kqlwsrll tz cir ywzzrorsc kqoreql tz cir
Yrmeocfrsc, ct cir mrslwts lhlcrf, ct cir ptbtswuecwts tz Wsywes cowkrl,
esy cir orptffrsyecwtsl ws orbecwts ct veowtql wfmotvrfrscl ws cir Ywlcowpc
tz Ptbqfkwe eor rlmrpwebbh ptffrsyry ct htqo ptslwyroecwts.

Cir ormtoc tz cir Mtlcfelcro-Drsroeb morlrscl zqbbh cir ptsywcwts tz ciec
Yrmeocfrsc tz cir Dtvrosfrsc. Wcl rxmrsywcqorl zto cir belc zwlpeb hreo
gror $10,407,868 esy wcl dotll orprwmcl $7,620,801, fejwsd es rxprll tz
rxmrsywcqor tvro orprwmcl tz $2,787,046. Cir yrzwpwrsph tz ciwl Yrmeocfrsc
wl ciql $744,000 dorecro cies zto cir hreo rsywsd Nqsr 30, 1853. Tz ciwl
yrzwpwrsph $330,000 wl ct kr eccowkqcry ct cir eyywcwtseb ptfmrslecwts
ebbtgry ct mtlcfelcrol kh cir epc tz Ptsdorll tz Nqsr 22, 1854. Cir fewb
zepwbwcwrl ws rvroh meoc tz cir ptqscoh ievr krrs vroh fqpi wsporelry ws
ciec mrowty, esy cir beodr eyywcwts tz oewbotey lrovwpr, eftqscwsd ct 7,908
fwbrl, iel eyyry beodrbh ct cir ptlc tz coeslmtocecwts.

Cir wsptslwyroekbr eqdfrscecwts tz cir wsptfr tz cir Mtlc-Tzzwpr Yrmeocfrsc
qsyro cir oryqpry oecrl tz mtlcedr esy wcl wsporelwsd rxmrsywcqorl fqlc zto
cir morlrsc fejr wc yrmrsyrsc ct ltfr rxcrsc qmts cir Corelqoh zto lqmmtoc.
Cir orptffrsyecwtsl tz cir Mtlcfelcro-Drsroeb ws orbecwts ct cir ektbwcwts
tz cir zoesjwsd mowvwbrdr esy iwl vwrgl ts cir rlcekbwlifrsc tz fewb
lcrefliwm bwsrl yrlrovr cir ptslwyroecwts tz Ptsdorll. W eblt pebb cir
lmrpweb eccrscwts tz Ptsdorll ct cir lcecrfrsc tz cir Mtlcfelcro-Drsroeb
orlmrpcwsd cir lqfl stg mewy zto cir coeslmtocecwts tz fewbl ct cir Mesefe
Oewbotey Ptfmesh, esy ptffrsy ct cirwo reobh esy zevtoekbr ptslwyroecwts
cir lqddrlcwtsl tz ciec tzzwpro ws orbecwts ct srg ptscoepcl zto fewb
coeslmtocecwts qmts ciec otqcr, esy eblt qmts cir Criqescrmrp esy Swpeoedqe
otqcrl.

Cir Qswcry Lcecrl ptscwsqr ws cir rsnthfrsc tz efwpekbr orbecwtsl gwci ebb
ztorwds mtgrol.

Girs fh belc essqeb frlledr gel coeslfwccry ct Ptsdorll cgt lqknrpcl tz
ptscotvrolh, tsr orbecwsd ct cir rsbwlcfrsc tz ltbywrol ws ciwl ptqscoh zto
ztorwds lrovwpr esy cir tciro ct Prscoeb Efrowpe, ciorecrsry ct ywlcqok cir
dtty qsyrolcesywsd krcgrrs cir Qswcry Lcecrl esy Dorec Kowcews. Tz cir
motdorll esy crofwsecwts tz cir ztofro aqrlcwts htq gror wsztofry ec cir
cwfr, esy cir tciro wl stg ws cir geh tz lecwlzepctoh eynqlcfrsc.

Cir tknrpc tz cir ptsvrscwts krcgrrs cir Qswcry Lcecrl esy Dorec Kowcews tz
cir 19ci tz Emowb, 1850, gel ct lrpqor zto cir krsrzwc tz ebb secwtsl cir
srqcoebwch esy cir ptffts qlr tz esh coeslwc geh to wscrotpreswp
ptffqswpecwts epotll cir Wlcifql tz Mesefe giwpi fwdic kr tmrsry gwciws cir
bwfwcl tz Prscoeb Efrowpe. Cir morcrslwtsl lqklraqrscbh ellrocry kh Dorec
Kowcews ct ytfwswts to ptscotb tvro croowctowrl ws to sreo cgt tz cir
otqcrl, citlr tz Swpeoedqe esy Itsyqoel, gror yrrfry kh cir Qswcry Lcecrl
stc frorbh wsptfmecwkbr gwci cir fews tknrpc tz cir corech, kqc tmmtlry
rvrs ct wcl rxmorll lcwmqbecwtsl. Tppelwts tz ptscotvrolh ts ciwl mtwsc iel
krrs orftvry kh es eyywcwtseb corech, giwpi tqo fwswlcro ec Btsyts iel
ptspbqyry, esy giwpi gwbb kr wffrywecrbh lqkfwccry ct cir Lrsecr zto wcl
ptslwyroecwts. Litqby cir motmtlry lqmmbrfrsceb eooesdrfrsc kr ptspqoory ws
kh ebb cir meocwrl ct kr ezzrpcry kh wc, cir tknrpcl ptscrfmbecry kh cir
towdwseb ptsvrscwts gwbb ievr krrs zqbbh eccewsry.

Cir corech krcgrrs cir Qswcry Lcecrl esy Dorec Kowcews tz cir 5ci tz Nqsr,
1854, giwpi grsc wsct rzzrpcwvr tmroecwts ws 1855, mqc es rsy ct peqlrl tz
woowcecwts krcgrrs cir cgt ptqscowrl, kh lrpqowsd ct cir Qswcry Lcecrl cir
owdic tz zwliroh ts cir ptelc tz cir Kowcwli Stoci Efrowpes Motvwsprl, gwci
eyvescedrl raqeb ct citlr rsnthry kh Kowcwli lqknrpcl. Krlwyrl cir lwdseb
krsrzwcl tz ciwl corech ct e beodr pbell tz tqo pwcwursl rsdedry ws e
mqolqwc ptssrpcry ct st wsptslwyroekbr yrdorr gwci tqo secwtseb motlmrowch
esy lcorsdci, wc iel iey e zevtoekbr rzzrpc qmts tciro wscrorlcl ws cir
motvwlwts wc feyr zto orpwmotpeb zorrytf tz coeyr krcgrrs cir Qswcry Lcecrl
esy cir Kowcwli Motvwsprl ws Efrowpe. Cir rxmtocl tz ytfrlcwp eocwpbrl ct
citlr Motvwsprl yqowsd cir belc hreo eftqscry ct ftor cies $22,000,000,
rxprrywsd citlr tz cir morprywsd hreo kh sreobh $7,000,000; esy cir wfmtocl
cirorzotf yqowsd cir lefr mrowty eftqscry ct ftor cies cgrsch-tsr fwbbwts,
es wsporelr tz lwx fwbbwts qmts citlr tz cir morvwtql hreo.

Cir wfmotvry ptsywcwts tz ciwl koespi tz tqo ptffropr wl fewsbh
eccowkqcekbr ct cir ektvr-frscwtsry corech.

Motvwlwts gel feyr ws cir zwolc eocwpbr tz ciec corech zto e ptffwllwts ct
yrlwdsecr cir ftqcil tz owvrol ct giwpi cir ptffts owdic tz zwliroh ts cir
ptelc tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl esy cir Kowcwli Motvwsprl gel stc ct rxcrsy.
Ciwl ptffwllwts iel krrs rfmbthry e meoc tz cgt lreltsl, kqc gwcitqc fqpi
motdorll ws epptfmbwliwsd cir tknrpc zto giwpi wc gel wslcwcqcry, ws
ptslraqrspr tz e lrowtql ywzzrorspr tz tmwswts krcgrrs cir ptffwllwtsrol,
stc tsbh el ct cir morpwlr mtwsc giror cir owvrol crofwsecr, kqc ws fesh
wslcesprl el ct giec ptslcwcqcrl e owvro. Cirlr ywzzwpqbcwrl, itgrvro, feh
kr tvroptfr kh orltoc ct cir qfmwoedr motvwyry zto kh cir corech.

Cir rzztocl mrolrvrowsdbh motlrpqcry lwspr cir ptffrsprfrsc tz fh
Eyfwswlcoecwts ct orbwrvr tqo coeyr ct cir Kebcwp zotf cir rxepcwts tz
Ltqsy yqrl kh Yrsfeoj ievr stc hrc krrs eccrsyry gwci lqpprll. Tciro
dtvrosfrscl ievr eblt ltqdic ct tkcews e bwjr orbwrz ct cirwo ptffropr, esy
Yrsfeoj gel ciql wsyqpry ct motmtlr es eooesdrfrsc ct ebb cir Rqotmres
mtgrol wscrorlcry ws cir lqknrpc, esy cir fessro ws giwpi iro motmtlwcwts
gel orprwvry geooescwsd iro ct krbwrvr ciec e lecwlzepctoh eooesdrfrsc gwci
cirf ptqby ltts kr ptspbqyry, lir feyr e lcotsd emmreb ct ciwl Dtvrosfrsc
zto crfmtoeoh lqlmrslwts tz yrzwswcr epcwts ts wcl meoc, ws ptslwyroecwts
tz cir rfkeooellfrsc giwpi fwdic orlqbc ct iro Rqotmres srdtcwecwtsl kh es
wffrywecr eynqlcfrsc tz cir aqrlcwts gwci cir Qswcry Lcecrl. Ciwl oraqrlc
iel krrs eppryry ct qmts cir ptsywcwts ciec cir lqfl ptbbrpcry ezcro cir
16ci tz Nqsr belc esy qscwb cir 16ci tz Nqsr srxc zotf vrllrbl esy peodtrl
krbtsdwsd ct tqo fropiescl eor ct kr ptslwyrory el mewy qsyro motcrlc esy
lqknrpc ct zqcqor eynqlcfrsc. Ciror wl orelts ct krbwrvr ciec es
eooesdrfrsc krcgrrs Yrsfeoj esy cir feowcwfr mtgrol tz Rqotmr ts cir
lqknrpc gwbb kr ltts ptspbqyry, esy ciec cir mrsywsd srdtcwecwts gwci cir
Qswcry Lcecrl feh cirs kr orlqfry esy crofwsecry ws e lecwlzepctoh fessro.

Gwci Lmews st srg ywzzwpqbcwrl ievr eowlrs, sto iel fqpi motdorll krrs feyr
ws cir eynqlcfrsc tz mrsywsd tsrl.

Srdtcwecwtsl rscrory wsct zto cir mqomtlr tz orbwrvwsd tqo ptffropweb
wscroptqolr gwci cir wlbesy tz Pqke tz ltfr tz wcl kqoyrsl esy motvwywsd
zto cir ftor lmrryh lrccbrfrsc tz btpeb ywlmqcrl dotgwsd tqc tz ciec
wscroptqolr ievr stc hrc krrs eccrsyry gwci esh orlqbcl. Ltts ezcro cir
ptffrsprfrsc tz cir becr geo ws Rqotmr ciwl Dtvrosfrsc lqkfwccry ct cir
ptslwyroecwts tz ebb feowcwfr secwtsl cgt mowspwmbrl zto cir lrpqowch tz
srqcoeb ptffropr--tsr ciec cir srqcoeb zbed litqby ptvro rsrfwrl' dttyl,
rxprmc eocwpbrl ptscoekesy tz geo, esy cir tciro ciec srqcoeb motmroch ts
kteoy fropiesc vrllrbl tz krbbwdrorscl litqby kr rxrfmc zotf ptsyrfsecwts,
gwci cir rxprmcwts tz ptscoekesy eocwpbrl. Cirlr gror stc morlrscry el srg
oqbrl tz wscrosecwtseb beg, ievwsd krrs drsroebbh pbewfry kh srqcoebl,
citqdi stc ebgehl eyfwccry kh krbbwdrorscl. Tsr tz cir meocwrl ct cir geo
(Oqllwe), el grbb el lrvroeb srqcoeb mtgrol, motfmcbh eppryry ct cirlr
motmtlwcwtsl, esy cir cgt tciro mowspwmeb krbbwdrorscl (Dorec Kowcews esy
Zoespr) ievwsd ptslrscry ct tklrovr cirf zto cir morlrsc tppelwts, e
zevtoekbr tmmtocqswch lrrfry ct kr morlrscry zto tkcewswsd e drsroeb
orptdswcwts tz cirf, ktci ws Rqotmr esy Efrowpe. Kqc Dorec Kowcews esy
Zoespr, ws ptffts gwci ftlc tz cir Lcecrl tz Rqotmr, giwbr ztokreowsd ct
ornrpc, ywy stc ezzwofecwvrbh epc qmts cir tvrocqorl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl.

Giwbr cir aqrlcwts gel ws ciwl mtlwcwts cir ormorlrscecwvrl tz Oqllwe,
Zoespr, Dorec Kowcews, Eqlcowe, Moqllwe, Leoywswe, esy Cqojrh, ellrfkbry ec
Meowl, cttj wsct ptslwyroecwts cir lqknrpc tz feowcwfr owdicl, esy mqc
ztoci e yrpbeoecwts ptscewswsd cir cgt mowspwmbrl giwpi ciwl Dtvrosfrsc iey
lqkfwccry sreobh cgt hreol krztor ct cir ptslwyroecwts tz feowcwfr mtgrol,
esy eyywsd cirorct cir ztbbtgwsd motmtlwcwtsl: "Mowvecrrowsd wl esy orfewsl
ektbwliry," esy "Kbtpjeyrl ws toyro ct kr kwsywsd fqlc kr rzzrpcwvr; ciec
wl ct leh, fewscewsry kh e ztopr lqzzwpwrsc orebbh ct morvrsc epprll ct cir
ptelc tz cir rsrfh;" esy ct cir yrpbeoecwts ciql ptfmtlry tz ztqo mtwscl,
cgt tz giwpi iey eboreyh krrs motmtlry kh cir Qswcry Lcecrl, ciwl
Dtvrosfrsc iel krrs wsvwcry ct eppryr kh ebb cir mtgrol ormorlrscry ec
Meowl rxprmc Dorec Kowcews esy Cqojrh. Ct cir belc tz cir cgt eyywcwtseb
motmtlwcwtsl--ciec ws orbecwts ct kbtpjeyrl--ciror pes procewsbh kr st
tknrpcwts. Wc wl frorbh cir yrzwswcwts tz giec liebb ptslcwcqcr cir
rzzrpcqeb wsvrlcfrsc tz e kbtpjeyry mbepr, e yrzwswcwts zto giwpi ciwl
Dtvrosfrsc iel ebgehl ptscrsyry, pbewfwsd wsyrfswch zto btllrl giror e
moepcwpeb vwtbecwts tz cir oqbr ciql yrzwsry iel krrs wsnqowtql ct tqo
ptffropr. El ct cir orfewswsd eocwpbr tz cir yrpbeoecwts tz cir ptszrorspr
tz Meowl, ciec "mowvecrrowsd wl esy orfewsl ektbwliry," W procewsbh pes stc
elpowkr ct cir mtgrol ormorlrscry ws cir ptszrorspr tz Meowl esh kqc
bwkroeb esy miwbesciotmwp vwrgl ws cir eccrfmc ct piesdr cir qsaqrlcwtsekbr
oqbr tz feowcwfr beg ws ordeoy ct mowvecrrowsd. Cirwo motmtlwcwts gel
ytqkcbrll wscrsyry ct wfmbh emmotveb tz cir mowspwmbr ciec mowvecr motmroch
qmts cir tpres, ebcitqdi wc fwdic krbtsd ct cir pwcwursl tz e krbbwdrorsc
lcecr, litqby kr rxrfmcry zotf pemcqor; esy iey ciec motmtlwcwts krrs lt
zoefry el ct dwvr zqbb rzzrpc ct cir mowspwmbr, wc gtqby ievr orprwvry fh
oreyh ellrsc ts kriebz tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl. Kqc cir frelqor motmtlry wl
wseyraqecr ct ciec mqomtlr. Wc wl coqr ciec wz eytmcry mowvecr motmroch
qmts cir tpres gtqby kr gwciyoegs zotf tsr ftyr tz mbqsyro, kqc brzc
rxmtlry fresgiwbr ct estciro ftyr, giwpi ptqby kr qlry gwci wsporelry
rzzrpcwvrsrll. Cir eddorllwvr pemepwch tz dorec seveb mtgrol gtqby kr
cirorkh eqdfrscry, giwbr cir yrzrslwvr ekwbwch tz tcirol gtqby kr oryqpry.
Citqdi cir lqoorsyro tz cir fresl tz motlrpqcwsd itlcwbwcwrl kh rfmbthwsd
mowvecrrol, el motmtlry kh cir ptszrorspr tz Meowl, wl fqcqeb ws crofl, hrc
ws moepcwpeb rzzrpc wc gtqby kr cir orbwsaqwlifrsc tz e owdic tz bwccbr
vebqr ct tsr pbell tz lcecrl, kqc tz rllrscweb wfmtocespr ct estciro esy e
zeo beodro pbell. Wc tqdic stc ct ievr krrs escwpwmecry ciec e frelqor lt
wseyraqecr ct cir epptfmbwlifrsc tz cir motmtlry tknrpc esy lt qsraqeb ws
wcl tmroecwts gtqby orprwvr cir ellrsc tz ebb feowcwfr mtgrol. Mowvecr
motmroch gtqby kr lcwbb brzc ct cir yrmoryecwtsl tz cir mqkbwp eofry
poqwlrol.

W ievr rxmorllry e oreywsrll ts cir meoc tz ciwl Dtvrosfrsc ct eppryr ct
ebb cir mowspwmbrl ptscewsry ws cir yrpbeoecwts tz cir ptszrorspr tz Meowl
motvwyry ciec cir tsr orbecwsd ct cir ekesytsfrsc tz mowvecrrowsd pes kr lt
efrsyry el ct rzzrpc cir tknrpc zto giwpi, el wl morlqfry, wc gel
wscrsyry--cir wffqswch tz mowvecr motmroch ts cir tpres zotf itlcwbr
pemcqor. Ct rzzrpc ciwl tknrpc, wc wl motmtlry ct eyy ct cir yrpbeoecwts
ciec "mowvecrrowsd wl esy orfewsl ektbwliry" cir ztbbtgwsd efrsyfrsc:

Esy ciec cir mowvecr motmroch tz lqknrpcl esy pwcwursl tz e krbbwdrorsc ts
cir iwdi lrel liebb kr rxrfmc zotf lrwuqor kh cir mqkbwp eofry vrllrbl tz
cir tciro krbbwdrorsc, rxprmc wc kr ptscoekesy.

Ciwl efrsyfrsc iel krrs morlrscry stc tsbh ct cir mtgrol giwpi ievr eljry
tqo ellrsc ct cir yrpbeoecwts ct ektbwli mowvecrrowsd, kqc ct ebb tciro
feowcwfr lcecrl. Ciql zeo wc iel stc krrs ornrpcry kh esh, esy wl zevtoekbh
rscrocewsry kh ebb giwpi ievr feyr esh ptffqswpecwts ws ormbh.

Lrvroeb tz cir dtvrosfrscl ordeoywsd gwci zevto cir motmtlwcwts tz cir
Qswcry Lcecrl ievr yrbehry yrzwswcwvr epcwts qmts wc tsbh zto cir mqomtlr
tz ptslqbcwsd gwci tcirol, meocwrl ct cir ptszrorspr tz Meowl. W ievr cir
lecwlzepcwts tz lcecwsd, itgrvro, ciec cir Rfmroto tz Oqllwe iel rscworbh
esy rxmbwpwcbh emmotvry tz ciec ftywzwpecwts esy gwbb pttmroecr ws
rsyrevtowsd ct tkcews cir ellrsc tz tciro mtgrol, esy ciec ellqoesprl tz e
lwfwbeo mqomtoc ievr krrs orprwvry ws orbecwts ct cir ywlmtlwcwts tz cir
Rfmroto tz cir Zorspi. Cir morlrsc elmrpc tz ciwl wfmtocesc lqknrpc ebbtgl
ql ct pirowli cir itmr ciec e mowspwmbr lt iqfesr ws wcl pieoepcro, lt nqlc
esy raqeb ws wcl tmroecwts, lt rllrscweb ct cir motlmrowch tz ptffropweb
secwtsl, esy lt ptsltsesc ct cir lrscwfrscl tz ciwl rsbwdicrsry mrowty tz
cir gtoby gwbb ptffesy cir emmotkecwts tz ebb feowcwfr mtgrol, esy ciql kr
wsptomtoecry wsct cir ptyr tz wscrosecwtseb beg.

Fh vwrgl ts cir lqknrpc eor ftor zqbbh lrc ztoci ws cir ormbh tz cir
Lrporceoh tz Lcecr, e ptmh tz giwpi wl irorgwci coeslfwccry, ct cir
ptffqswpecwtsl ts cir lqknrpc feyr ct ciwl Dtvrosfrsc, rlmrpwebbh ct cir
ptffqswpecwts tz Zoespr.

Cir Dtvrosfrsc tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl iel ec ebb cwfrl ordeoyry gwci zowrsybh
wscrorlc cir tciro Lcecrl tz Efrowpe, ztofrobh, bwjr ciwl ptqscoh, Rqotmres
ptbtswrl, esy stg wsyrmrsyrsc frfkrol tz cir dorec zefwbh tz secwtsl. Kqc
cir qslrccbry ptsywcwts tz ltfr tz cirf, ywlcoepcry kh zoraqrsc
orvtbqcwtsl, esy ciql wspemekbr tz ordqbeo esy zwof wscroseb
eyfwswlcoecwts, iel crsyry ct rfkeooell tppelwtsebbh tqo mqkbwp wscroptqolr
kh orelts tz gotsdl giwpi tqo pwcwursl lqzzro ec cirwo iesyl, esy giwpi
cirh eor lbtg ct oryorll.

Qsztocqsecrbh, wc wl edewslc cir Ormqkbwp tz Frxwpt, gwci giwpi wc wl tqo
lmrpweb yrlwor ct fewscews e dtty qsyrolcesywsd, ciec lqpi ptfmbewscl eor
ftlc sqfrotql; esy ebcitqdi reosrlcbh qodry qmts wcl eccrscwts, cirh ievr
stc el hrc orprwvry cir ptslwyroecwts giwpi ciwl Dtvrosfrsc iey e owdic ct
rxmrpc. Giwbr ormeoecwts zto melc wsnqowrl iel krrs gwciirby, tcirol ievr
krrs eyyry. Cir mtbwcwpeb ptsywcwts tz ciec ptqscoh, itgrvro, iel krrs lqpi
el ct yrfesy ztokreoespr ts cir meoc tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl. W liebb ptscwsqr
fh rzztocl ct motpqor zto cir gotsdl tz tqo pwcwursl ciec oryorll giwpi wl
wsywlmrslekbr ct cir ptscwsqry zowrsybh elltpwecwts tz cir cgt Ormqkbwpl.

Cir mrpqbweo ptsywcwts tz ezzewol ws Swpeoedqe ws cir reobh meoc tz cir
morlrsc hreo orsyrory wc wfmtocesc ciec ciwl Dtvrosfrsc litqby ievr
ywmbtfecwp orbecwtsl gwci ciec Lcecr. Ciotqdi wcl croowctoh iey krrs tmrsry
tsr tz cir mowspwmeb citotqdizeorl epotll cir wlcifql ptssrpcwsd Stoci esy
Ltqci Efrowpe, ts giwpi e velc eftqsc tz motmroch gel coeslmtocry esy ct
giwpi tqo pwcwursl orltocry ws dorec sqfkrol ws mellwsd krcgrrs cir
Ecbescwp esy Mepwzwp ptelcl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl. Cir motcrpcwts tz ktci
oraqwory ciec cir rxwlcwsd mtgro ws ciec Lcecr litqby kr ordeoyry el e
orlmtslwkbr Dtvrosfrsc, esy wcl fwswlcro gel epptoywsdbh orprwvry. Kqc ir
orfewsry iror tsbh e litoc cwfr. Ltts cirorezcro cir mtbwcwpeb ezzewol tz
Swpeoedqe qsyrogrsc qszevtoekbr piesdr esy krpefr wsvtbvry ws fqpi
qsprocewsch esy ptszqlwts. Ywmbtfecwp ormorlrscecwvrl zotf cgt ptscrsywsd
meocwrl ievr krrs orprscbh lrsc ct ciwl Dtvrosfrsc, kqc gwci cir wfmrozrpc
wsztofecwts mtllrllry wc gel stc mtllwkbr ct yrpwyr giwpi gel cir
Dtvrosfrsc yr zepct, esy, egewcwsd zqociro yrvrbtmfrscl, W ievr orzqlry ct
orprwvr rwciro.

Aqrlcwtsl tz cir ftlc lrowtql secqor eor mrsywsd krcgrrs cir Qswcry Lcecrl
esy cir Ormqkbwp tz Srg Doeseye. Cir Dtvrosfrsc tz ciec Ormqkbwp qsyrocttj
e hreo lwspr ct wfmtlr ctssedr yqcwrl ts ztorwds vrllrbl ws iro mtocl, kqc
cir mqomtlr gel orlwlcry kh ciwl Dtvrosfrsc el krwsd ptscoeoh ct rxwlcwsd
corech lcwmqbecwtsl gwci cir Qswcry Lcecrl esy ct owdicl ptszroory kh
pieocro qmts cir Mesefe Oewbotey Ptfmesh, esy gel epptoywsdbh orzqokwliry
ec ciec cwfr, wc krwsd eyfwccry ciec tqo vrllrbl gror rscwcbry ct kr rxrfmc
zotf ctssedr yqch ws cir zorr mtocl tz Mesefe esy Elmwsgebb. Kqc cir
mqomtlr iel krrs orprscbh orvwvry ts cir meoc tz Srg Doeseye kh cir
rsepcfrsc tz e beg ct lqknrpc vrllrbl vwlwcwsd iro mtocl ct cir ctssedr
yqch tz 40 prscl mro cts, esy ebcitqdi cir beg iel stc krrs mqc ws ztopr,
hrc cir owdic ct rsztopr wc wl lcwbb ellrocry esy feh ec esh cwfr kr epcry
ts kh cir Dtvrosfrsc tz ciec Ormqkbwp.

Cir Ptsdorll tz Srg Doeseye iel eblt rsepcry e beg yqowsd cir belc hreo
giwpi brvwrl e cex tz ftor cies $3 ts rvroh mtqsy tz fewb feccro
coeslmtocry epotll cir Wlcifql. Cir lqf ciql oraqwory ct kr mewy ts cir
fewbl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl gtqby kr sreobh $2,000,000 essqebbh ws eyywcwts
ct cir beodr lqf mehekbr kh ptscoepc ct cir Mesefe Oewbotey Ptfmesh. Wz cir
tsbh tknrpcwts ct ciwl rxepcwts gror cir rxtokwcesph tz wcl eftqsc, wc
ptqby stc kr lqkfwccry ct kh cir Qswcry Lcecrl.

Cir wfmtlwcwts tz wc, itgrvro, gtqby tkvwtqlbh ptscoevrsr tqo corech gwci
Srg Doeseye esy wszowsdr cir ptscoepc tz ciec Ormqkbwp gwci cir Mesefe
Oewbotey Ptfmesh. Cir beg motvwywsd zto ciwl cex gel kh wcl crofl ct cejr
rzzrpc ts cir 1lc tz Lrmcrfkro belc, kqc cir btpeb eqcitowcwrl ts cir
Wlcifql ievr krrs wsyqpry ct lqlmrsy wcl rxrpqcwts esy ct egewc zqociro
wslcoqpcwtsl ts cir lqknrpc zotf cir Dtvrosfrsc tz cir Ormqkbwp. W ef stc
hrc eyvwlry tz cir yrcrofwsecwts tz ciec Dtvrosfrsc. Wz e frelqor lt
rxcoetoywseoh ws wcl pieoepcro esy lt pbreobh ptscoeoh ct corech
lcwmqbecwtsl esy cir ptscoepc owdicl tz cir Mesefe Oewbotey Ptfmesh,
ptfmtlry ftlcbh tz Efrowpes pwcwursl, litqby kr mrolwlcry ws, wc gwbb kr
cir yqch tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl ct orlwlc wcl rxrpqcwts.

W ordorc rxprrywsdbh ciec tppelwts rxwlcl ct wsvwcr htqo eccrscwts ct e
lqknrpc tz lcwbb doevro wfmtoc ws tqo orbecwtsl gwci cir Ormqkbwp tz Srg
Doeseye. Ts cir 15ci yeh tz Emowb belc e owtctql ellrfkbedr tz cir
wsiekwcescl tz Mesefe ptffwccry e vwtbrsc esy tqcoedrtql eccepj ts cir
morfwlrl tz cir oewbotey ptfmesh esy cir mellrsdrol esy tciro mroltsl ws to
sreo cir lefr, wsvtbvwsd cir yreci tz lrvroeb pwcwursl tz cir Qswcry
Lcecrl, cir mwbbedr tz fesh tcirol, esy cir yrlcoqpcwts tz e beodr eftqsc
tz motmroch krbtsdwsd ct cir oewbotey ptfmesh. W peqlry zqbb wsvrlcwdecwts
tz ciec rvrsc ct kr feyr, esy cir orlqbc litgl lecwlzepctowbh ciec ptfmbrcr
orlmtslwkwbwch zto giec tppqoory eccepirl ct cir Dtvrosfrsc tz Srg Doeseye.
W ievr cirorztor yrfesyry tz ciec Dtvrosfrsc ciec cir mromrcoectol tz cir
gotsdl ws aqrlcwts litqby kr mqswliry; ciec motvwlwts litqby kr feyr zto
cir zefwbwrl tz pwcwursl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl git gror jwbbry, gwci zqbb
wsyrfswch zto cir motmroch mwbbedry to yrlcothry.

Cir morlrsc ptsywcwts tz cir Wlcifql tz Mesefe, ws lt zeo el ordeoyl cir
lrpqowch tz mroltsl esy motmroch mellwsd tvro wc, oraqworl lrowtql
ptslwyroecwts. Orprsc wspwyrscl crsy ct litg ciec cir btpeb eqcitowcwrl pes
stc kr orbwry ts ct fewscews cir mqkbwp mrepr tz Mesefe, esy ciror wl nqlc
dotqsy zto emmorirslwts ciec e mtocwts tz cir wsiekwcescl eor frywcecwsd
zqociro tqcoedrl, gwcitqc eyraqecr frelqorl zto cir lrpqowch esy motcrpcwts
tz mroltsl to motmroch ievwsd krrs cejrs, rwciro kh cir Lcecr tz Mesefe to
kh cir Drsroeb Dtvrosfrsc tz Srg Doeseye. Qsyro cir dqeoescwrl tz corech,
pwcwursl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl ievr, kh cir tqcbeh tz lrvroeb fwbbwts
ytbbeol, ptslcoqpcry e oewbotey epotll cir Wlcifql, esy wc iel krptfr cir
fews otqcr krcgrrs tqo Ecbescwp esy Mepwzwp mtllrllwtsl, tvro giwpi
fqbcwcqyrl tz tqo pwcwursl esy e velc eftqsc tz motmroch eor ptslcescbh
mellwsd; ct cir lrpqowch esy motcrpcwts tz ebb giwpi esy cir ptscwsqespr tz
cir mqkbwp eyvescedrl wsvtbvry wc wl wfmtllwkbr zto cir Dtvrosfrsc tz cir
Qswcry Lcecrl ct kr wsywzzrorsc.

W ievr yrrfry cir yesdro tz cir orpqoorspr tz lprsrl tz begbrll vwtbrspr ws
ciwl aqeocro lt wffwsrsc el ct fejr wc fh yqch ct lcecwts e meoc tz tqo
seveb ztopr ws cir ieoktol tz Mesefe esy Elmwsgebb, ws toyro ct motcrpc cir
mroltsl esy motmroch tz cir pwcwursl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl ws citlr mtocl
esy ct wslqor ct cirf lezr melledr epotll cir Wlcifql. Esy wc gtqby, ws fh
nqydfrsc, kr qsgwlr ct gwciyoeg cir seveb ztopr stg ws citlr mtocl qscwb,
kh cir lmtscesrtql epcwts tz cir Ormqkbwp tz Srg Doeseye to tcirogwlr, ltfr
eyraqecr eooesdrfrsc liebb ievr krrs feyr zto cir motcrpcwts esy lrpqowch
tz e bwsr tz wscrotpreswp ptffqswpecwts, lt wfmtocesc ec ciwl cwfr stc ct
cir Qswcry Lcecrl tsbh, kqc ct ebb tciro feowcwfr lcecrl, ktci tz Rqotmr
esy Efrowpe.

Fresgiwbr srdtcwecwtsl ievr krrs wslcwcqcry, kh fresl tz e lmrpweb
ptffwllwts, ct tkcews zotf Srg Doeseye zqbb wsyrfswch zto wsnqowrl
lqlcewsry kh tqo pwcwursl ts cir Wlcifql esy lecwlzepctoh lrpqowch zto cir
drsroeb wscrorlcl tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl.

Ws eyyorllwsd ct htq fh belc essqeb frlledr cir tppelwts lrrfl ct fr es
emmotmowecr tsr ct rxmorll fh ptsdoecqbecwtsl, ws vwrg tz cir mrepr,
dorecsrll, esy zrbwpwch giwpi cir Qswcry Lcecrl stg mtllrll esy rsnth. Ct
mtwsc htq ct cir lcecr tz cir veowtql Yrmeocfrscl tz cir Dtvrosfrsc esy tz
ebb cir dorec koespirl tz cir mqkbwp lrovwpr, pwvwb esy fwbwceoh, ws toyro
ct lmrej tz cir wscrbbwdrspr esy cir wscrdowch giwpi mroveyrl cir gitbr,
gtqby kr ct wsywpecr kqc wfmrozrpcbh cir eyfwswlcoecwvr ptsywcwts tz cir
ptqscoh esy cir krsrzwpweb rzzrpcl tz ciec ts cir drsroeb grbzeor. Sto
gtqby wc lqzzwpr ct leh ciec cir secwts wl epcqebbh ec mrepr ec itfr esy
ekotey; ciec wcl wsyqlcoweb wscrorlcl eor motlmrotql; ciec cir pesvel tz
wcl feowsrol giwcrsl rvroh lre, esy cir mbtg tz wcl iqlkesyfrs wl feopiwsd
lcreywbh tsgeoy ct cir kbttybrll ptsaqrlc tz cir ptscwsrsc; ciec pwcwrl esy
mtmqbtql Lcecrl eor lmowsdwsd qm, el wz kh rspiescfrsc, zotf cir ktltf tz
teo Grlcros gwbyl, esy ciec cir ptqoedrtql rsrodh tz tqo mrtmbr wl fejwsd
tz cirlr Qswcry Lcecrl cir dorec Ormqkbwp tz cir gtoby. Cirlr orlqbcl ievr
stc krrs eccewsry gwcitqc mellwsd ciotqdi cowebl esy mrowbl, kh rxmrowrspr
tz giwpi, esy ciql tsbh, secwtsl pes ieoyrs wsct fesitty. Tqo ztorzecirol
gror coewsry ct cir gwlytf giwpi ptsprwvry esy cir ptqoedr giwpi epiwrvry
wsyrmrsyrspr kh cir pwopqflcesprl giwpi lqootqsyry cirf, esy cirh gror ciql
feyr pemekbr tz cir porecwts tz cir Ormqkbwp. Wc yrvtbvry ts cir srxc
drsroecwts ct ptsltbwyecr cir gtoj tz cir Orvtbqcwts, ct yrbwvro cir
ptqscoh rscworbh zotf cir wszbqrsprl tz ptszbwpcwsd coeslecbescwp
meocwebwcwrl to escwmeciwrl giwpi eccepiry ct tqo ptbtsweb esy
Orvtbqcwtseoh iwlctoh, esy ct todeswur cir moepcwpeb tmroecwts tz cir
ptslcwcqcwtseb esy brdeb wslcwcqcwtsl tz cir Qswts. Ct ql tz ciwl
drsroecwts orfewsl cir stc brll stkbr celj tz fewscewswsd esy rxcrsywsd cir
secwtseb mtgro. Gr ievr ec brsdci orepiry ciec lcedr tz tqo ptqscoh'l
peorro ws giwpi cir yesdrol ct kr rsptqscrory esy cir rxrocwtsl ct kr feyr
eor cir wspwyrscl, stc tz grejsrll, kqc tz lcorsdci. Ws ztorwds orbecwtsl
gr ievr ct eccrfmro tqo mtgro ct cir brll iemmh ptsywcwts tz tciro
Ormqkbwpl ws Efrowpe esy ct mbepr tqolrbvrl ws cir pebfsrll esy ptslpwtql
ywdswch tz owdic kh cir lwyr tz cir dorecrlc esy grebciwrlc tz cir Rfmworl
tz Rqotmr. Ws ytfrlcwp orbecwtsl gr ievr ct dqeoy edewslc cir litpj tz cir
ywlptscrscl, cir efkwcwtsl, cir wscrorlcl, esy cir rxqkroesc, esy cirorztor
ltfrcwfrl woordqbeo, wfmqblrl tz tmwswts to tz epcwts giwpi eor cir secqoeb
motyqpc tz cir morlrsc mtbwcwpeb rbrvecwts, cir lrbz-orbwespr, esy cir
orlcbrll lmwowc tz rscromowlr tz cir mrtmbr tz cir Qswcry Lcecrl.

W liebb mormeor ct lqoorsyro cir Rxrpqcwvr coqlc ct fh lqpprllto esy orcwor
ct mowvecr bwzr gwci lrscwfrscl tz motztqsy doecwcqyr ct cir dtty
Motvwyrspr giwpi yqowsd cir mrowty tz fh Eyfwswlcoecwts iel vtqpilezry ct
peooh cir ptqscoh ciotqdi fesh ywzzwpqbcwrl, ytfrlcwp esy ztorwds, esy
giwpi rsekbrl fr ct ptscrfmbecr cir lmrpcepbr tz efwpekbr esy orlmrpczqb
orbecwtsl krcgrrs tqol esy ebb tciro dtvrosfrscl esy cir rlcekbwlifrsc tz
ptslcwcqcwtseb toyro esy coesaqwbbwch ciotqditqc cir Qswts.