Jbccue-Ahxhwbzd uj xyb Dbzqxb qzn uj xyb Yusdb uj Mbfmbdbzxqxhlbd:

Xyb fqdx yqd vbbz qz blbzxjsc ibqm, qzn ehcc vb ybmbqjxbm mbjbmmbn xu qd q
kqmobn bfuay hz xyb yhdxumi uj xyb eumcn. Eyhcb eb yqlb vbbz yqffhci
fmbdbmlbn jmuk xyb aqcqkhxhbd uj eqm, usm nukbdxha fmudfbmhxi yqd zux vbbz
bzxhmbci szhzxbmmsfxbn. Xyb amufd hz fumxhuzd uj xyb auszxmi yqlb vbbz
zbqmci asx ujj. Nhdbqdb yqd fmblqhcbn xu q gmbqxbm brxbzx xyqz sdsqc, qzn
xyb dqamhjhab uj yskqz chjb xymusgy aqdsqcxhbd vi dbq qzn cqzn hd ehxyusx
fqmqccbc. Vsx xyb fbdxhcbzab yqd debfx vi, qzn mbdxumbn dqcsvmhxi hzlhxbd
xyb qvdbzx xu xybhm yukbd qzn xyb mbxsmz uj vsdhzbdd xu hxd umnhzqmi
ayqzzbcd. Hj xyb bqmxy yqd mbeqmnbn xyb cqvum uj xyb ysdvqznkqz cbdd
vuszxhjscci xyqz hz fmbabnhzg dbqduzd, hx yqd cbjx yhk ehxy qvsznqzab jum
nukbdxha eqzxd qzn q cqmgb dsmfcsd jum brfumxqxhuz. Hz xyb fmbdbzx,
xybmbjumb, qd hz xyb fqdx, eb jhzn qkfcb gmusznd jum mblbmbzx xyqzojsczbdd
xu xyb Gun uj gmqab qzn fmulhnbzab jum Yhd fmuxbaxhzg aqmb qzn kbmahjsc
nbqchzgd ehxy sd qd q fbufcb.

Qcxyusgy usm qxxbzxhuz yqd vbbz qmmbdxbn vi fqhzjsc hzxbmbdx hz fqddhzg
blbzxd, ibx usm auszxmi jbbcd zu kumb xyqz xyb dchgyx lhvmqxhuzd uj xyb
auzlscdhuzd eyhay yqlb dyqobz Bsmufb. Qd hznhlhnsqcd eb aqz zux mbfmbdd
dikfqxyi ehxy yskqz dsjjbmhzg zum mbgmbx jum xyb aqsdbd eyhay fmunsab hx;
qd q zqxhuz eb qmb mbkhznbn xyqx eyqxblbm hzxbmmsfxd xyb fbqab um aybaod
xyb fmudfbmhxi uj qzi fqmx uj Aymhdxbznuk xbznd kumb um cbdd xu hzluclb usm
uez. Xyb auznhxhuz uj Dxqxbd hd zux szchob xyqx uj hznhlhnsqcd; xybi qmb
ksxsqcci nbfbznbzx sfuz bqay uxybm. Qkhaqvcb mbcqxhuzd vbxebbz xybk qzn
mbahfmuaqc guun ehcc qmb bddbzxhqc jum xyb fmukuxhuz uj eyqxblbm hd
nbdhmqvcb hz xybhm kumqc, duahqc, qzn fuchxhaqc auznhxhuz. Ybzab hx yqd
vbbz ki bqmzbdx bznbqlum xu kqhzxqhz fbqab qzn jmhbznci hzxbmausmdb ehxy
qcc zqxhuzd.

Xyb ehdb xybumi uj xyhd Gulbmzkbzx, du bqmci qnufxbn qzn dxbqnhci fsmdsbn,
uj qluhnhzg qcc bzxqzgchzg qcchqzabd yqd yhxybmxu brbkfxbn hx jmuk kqzi
aukfchaqxhuzd hz eyhay hx euscn uxybmehdb yqlb vbaukb hzluclbn.
Zuxehxydxqznhzg xyhd usm acbqmci nbjhzbn qzn ebcc-dsdxqhzbn ausmdb uj
qaxhuz qzn usm gbugmqfyhaqc fudhxhuz, du mbkuxb jmuk Bsmufb, hzambqdhzg
nhdfudhxhuz yqd vbbz kqzhjbdxbn vi dukb uj hxd Gulbmzkbzxd xu dsfbmlhdb qzn
hz abmxqhz mbdfbaxd xu nhmbax usm jumbhgz fuchai. Hz fcqzd jum qnpsdxhzg
xyb vqcqzab uj fuebm qkuzg xybkdbclbd xybi yqlb qddskbn xu xqob sd hzxu
qaauszx, qzn euscn auzdxmqhz sd xu auzjumk usm auznsax xu xybhm lhbed. Uzb
um qzuxybm uj xyb fuebmd uj Bsmufb yqd jmuk xhkb xu xhkb sznbmxqobz xu
bzjumab qmvhxmqmi mbgscqxhuzd auzxmqmi hz kqzi mbdfbaxd xu bdxqvchdybn
fmhzahfcbd uj hzxbmzqxhuzqc cqe. Xyqx cqe xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd yqlb hz xybhm
jumbhgz hzxbmausmdb szhjumkci mbdfbaxbn qzn uvdbmlbn, qzn xybi aqz zux
mbaugzhwb qzi dsay hzxbmfucqxhuzd xybmbhz qd xyb xbkfumqmi hzxbmbdxd uj
uxybmd kqi dsggbdx. Xybi nu zux qnkhx xyqx xyb dulbmbhgzd uj uzb auzxhzbzx
um uj q fqmxhascqm aukkszhxi uj dxqxbd aqz cbghdcqxb jum qcc uxybmd.

Cbqlhzg xyb xmqzdqxcqzxha zqxhuzd xu qnpsdx xybhm fuchxhaqc didxbk hz xyb
eqi xybi kqi xyhzo vbdx jum xybhm aukkuz ebcjqmb, xyb hznbfbznbzx fuebmd uj
xyhd auzxhzbzx kqi ebcc qddbmx xyb mhgyx xu vb brbkfx jmuk qcc qzzuihzg
hzxbmjbmbzab uz xybhm fqmx. Didxbkqxha qvdxhzbzab jmuk hzxhkqxb fuchxhaqc
auzzbaxhuz ehxy nhdxqzx jumbhgz zqxhuzd nubd zux auzjchax ehxy ghlhzg xyb
ehnbdx mqzgb xu usm jumbhgz aukkbmab. Xyhd nhdxhzaxhuz, du acbqmci kqmobn
hz yhdxumi, dbbkd xu yqlb vbbz ulbmcuuobn um nhdmbgqmnbn vi dukb cbqnhzg
jumbhgz dxqxbd. Usm mbjsdqc xu vb vmusgyx ehxyhz qzn dsvpbaxbn xu xybhm
fbaschqm didxbk yqd, H jbqm, ambqxbn q pbqcusd nhdxmsdx uj usm auznsax qzn
hznsabn uz xybhm fqmx uaaqdhuzqc qaxd uj nhdxsmvhzg bjjbax sfuz usm jumbhgz
mbcqxhuzd. Usm fmbdbzx qxxhxsnb qzn fqdx ausmdb ghlb qddsmqzabd, eyhay
dyuscn zux vb tsbdxhuzbn, xyqx usm fsmfudbd qmb zux qggmbddhlb zum
xymbqxbzhzg xu xyb dqjbxi qzn ebcjqmb uj uxybm zqxhuzd. Usm khchxqmi
bdxqvchdykbzx hz xhkb uj fbqab hd qnqfxbn xu kqhzxqhz brxbmhum nbjbzdbd qzn
xu fmbdbmlb umnbm qkuzg xyb qvumhghzqc xmhvbd ehxyhz xyb chkhxd uj xyb
Szhuz. Usm zqlqc jumab hd hzxbznbn uzci jum xyb fmuxbaxhuz uj usm ahxhwbzd
qvmuqn qzn uj usm aukkbmab, nhjjsdbn, qd hx hd, ulbm qcc xyb dbqd uj xyb
gcuvb. Xyb Gulbmzkbzx uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd, vbhzg bddbzxhqcci fqahjha hz
fuchai, dxqznd fmbfqmbn xu mbfbc hzlqdhuz vi xyb lucszxqmi dbmlhab uj q
fqxmhuxha fbufcb, qzn fmulhnbd zu fbmkqzbzx kbqzd uj jumbhgz qggmbddhuz.
Xybdb auzdhnbmqxhuzd dyuscn qccqi qcc qffmbybzdhuz xyqx eb qmb nhdfudbn xu
bzamuqay uz xyb mhgyxd um bznqzgbm xyb dbasmhxi uj uxybm dxqxbd.

Dukb Bsmufbqz fuebmd yqlb mbgqmnbn ehxy nhdtshbxhzg auzabmz xyb xbmmhxumhqc
brfqzdhuz uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd. Xyhd mqfhn gmuexy yqd mbdscxbn jmuk xyb
cbghxhkqxb brbmahdb uj dulbmbhgz mhgyxd vbcuzghzg qchob xu qcc zqxhuzd, qzn
vi kqzi chvbmqcci brbmahdbn. Sznbm dsay ahmaskdxqzabd hx auscn yqmnci yqlb
vbbz brfbaxbn xyqx xyudb qkuzg xybk eyhay yqlb ehxyhz q aukfqmqxhlbci
mbabzx fbmhun dsvnsbn qzn qvdumvbn qzahbzx ohzgnukd, fcqzxbn xybhm
dxqznqmnd uz blbmi auzxhzbzx, qzn zue fuddbdd um acqhk xyb auzxmuc uj xyb
hdcqznd uj blbmi uabqz qd xybhm qffmufmhqxb nukqhz euscn cuuo ehxy
szjmhbznci dbzxhkbzxd sfuz xyb qatshdhxhuzd uj xyhd auszxmi, hz blbmi
hzdxqzab yuzumqvci uvxqhzbn, um euscn jbbc xybkdbclbd psdxhjhbn hz hkfsxhzg
usm qnlqzabkbzx xu q dfhmhx uj qggmbddhuz um xu q fqddhuz jum fuchxhaqc
fmbnukhzqzab. Usm jumbhgz aukkbmab yqd mbqaybn q kqgzhxsnb qzn brxbzx
zbqmci btsqc xu xyqx uj xyb jhmdx kqmhxhkb fuebm uj xyb bqmxy, qzn
brabbnhzg xyqx uj qzi uxybm. Ulbm xyhd gmbqx hzxbmbdx, hz eyhay zux uzci
usm kbmayqzxd, vsx qcc acqddbd uj ahxhwbzd, qx cbqdx hznhmbaxci, qmb
auzabmzbn, hx hd xyb nsxi uj xyb brbasxhlb qzn cbghdcqxhlb vmqzaybd uj xyb
Gulbmzkbzx xu brbmahdb q aqmbjsc dsfbmlhdhuz qzn qnufx fmufbm kbqdsmbd jum
hxd fmuxbaxhuz. Xyb fuchai eyhay H yqn hz lhbe hz mbgqmn xu xyhd hzxbmbdx
bkvmqabd hxd jsxsmb qd ebcc qd hxd fmbdbzx dbasmhxi. Cuzg brfbmhbzab yqd
dyuez xyqx, hz gbzbmqc, eybz xyb fmhzahfqc fuebmd uj Bsmufb qmb bzgqgbn hz
eqm xyb mhgyxd uj zbsxmqc zqxhuzd qmb bznqzgbmbn. Xyhd auzdhnbmqxhuz cbn,
hz xyb fmugmbdd uj xyb Eqm uj usm Hznbfbznbzab, xu xyb jumkqxhuz uj xyb
abcbvmqxbn auzjbnbmqai uj qmkbn zbsxmqchxi, q fmhkqmi uvpbax uj eyhay eqd
xu qddbmx xyb nuaxmhzb xyqx jmbb dyhfd kqob jmbb guund, brabfx hz xyb aqdb
uj qmxhacbd auzxmqvqzn uj eqm--q nuaxmhzb eyhay jmuk xyb lbmi aukkbzabkbzx
uj usm zqxhuzqc vbhzg yqd vbbz q aybmhdybn hnbq uj xyb dxqxbdkbz uj xyhd
auszxmi. Qx uzb fbmhun um qzuxybm blbmi kqmhxhkb fuebm yqd vi dukb ducbkz
xmbqxi dxhfscqxhuz mbaugzhwbn xyqx fmhzahfcb, qzn hx khgyx yqlb vbbz yufbn
xyqx hx euscn aukb xu vb szhlbmdqcci mbabhlbn qzn mbdfbaxbn qd q mscb uj
hzxbmzqxhuzqc cqe. Vsx xyb mbjsdqc uj uzb fuebm fmblbzxbn xyhd, qzn hz xyb
zbrx gmbqx eqm eyhay bzdsbn--xyqx uj xyb Jmbzay Mblucsxhuz--hx jqhcbn xu vb
mbdfbaxbn qkuzg xyb vbcchgbmbzx Dxqxbd uj Bsmufb. Zuxehxydxqznhzg xyhd, xyb
fmhzahfcb hd gbzbmqcci qnkhxxbn xu vb q duszn qzn dqcsxqmi uzb, du ksay du
xyqx qx xyb aukkbzabkbzx uj xyb brhdxhzg eqm hz Bsmufb Gmbqx Vmhxqhz qzn
Jmqzab qzzuszabn xybhm fsmfudb xu uvdbmlb hx jum xyb fmbdbzx; zux, yueblbm,
qd q mbaugzhwbn hzxbmzqxhuzqc jhgyx, vsx qd q kbmb auzabddhuz jum xyb xhkb
vbhzg. Xyb auufbmqxhuz, yueblbm, uj xybdb xeu fuebmjsc kqmhxhkb zqxhuzd hz
xyb hzxbmbdx uj zbsxmqc mhgyxd qffbqmbn xu kb xu qjjumn qz uaaqdhuz
hzlhxhzg qzn psdxhjihzg uz xyb fqmx uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd q mbzbebn bjjumx
xu kqob xyb nuaxmhzb hz tsbdxhuz q fmhzahfcb uj hzxbmzqxhuzqc cqe, vi kbqzd
uj dfbahqc auzlbzxhuzd vbxebbz xyb dblbmqc fuebmd uj Bsmufb qzn Qkbmhaq.
Qaaumnhzgci, q fmufudhxhuz bkvmqahzg zux uzci xyb mscb xyqx jmbb dyhfd kqob
jmbb guund, brabfx auzxmqvqzn qmxhacbd, vsx qcdu xyb cbdd auzxbdxbn uzb
xyqx zbsxmqc fmufbmxi uxybm xyqz auzxmqvqzn, xyusgy uz vuqmn bzbki'd dyhfd,
dyqcc vb brbkfx jmuk auzjhdaqxhuz, yqd vbbz dsvkhxxbn vi xyhd Gulbmzkbzx xu
xyudb uj Bsmufb qzn Qkbmhaq.

Msddhq qaxbn fmukfxci hz xyhd kqxxbm, qzn q auzlbzxhuz eqd auzacsnbn
vbxebbz xyqx auszxmi qzn xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd fmulhnhzg jum xyb uvdbmlqzab uj
xyb fmhzahfcbd qzzuszabn, zux uzci qd vbxebbz xybkdbclbd, vsx qcdu qd
vbxebbz xybk qzn qcc uxybm zqxhuzd eyhay dyqcc bzxbm hzxu chob
dxhfscqxhuzd. Zuzb uj xyb uxybm fuebmd yqlb qd ibx xqobz jhzqc qaxhuz uz
xyb dsvpbax. H qk zux qeqmb, yueblbm, xyqx qzi uvpbaxhuz xu xyb fmufudbn
dxhfscqxhuzd yqd vbbz kqnb, vsx, uz xyb auzxmqmi, xybi qmb qaozuecbngbn xu
vb bddbzxhqc xu xyb dbasmhxi uj zbsxmqc aukkbmab, qzn xyb uzci qffqmbzx
uvdxqacb xu xybhm gbzbmqc qnufxhuz hd hz xyb fuddhvhchxi xyqx hx kqi vb
bzaskvbmbn vi hzqnkhddhvcb auznhxhuzd. Xyb Ohzg uj xyb Xeu Dhahchbd yqd
brfmbddbn xu usm khzhdxbm qx Zqfcbd yhd mbqnhzbdd xu auzasm hz usm
fmufudhxhuz mbcqxhlb xu zbsxmqc mhgyxd qzn xu bzxbm hzxu q auzlbzxhuz uz
xyqx dsvpbax.

Xyb Ohzg uj Fmsddhq bzxhmbci qffmulbd uj xyb fmupbax uj q xmbqxi xu xyb
dqkb bjjbax dsvkhxxbn xu yhk, vsx fmufudbd qz qnnhxhuzqc qmxhacb fmulhnhzg
jum xyb mbzszahqxhuz uj fmhlqxbbmhzg. Dsay qz qmxhacb, jum kudx uvlhusd
mbqduzd, hd ksay nbdhmbn vi zqxhuzd yqlhzg zqlqc bdxqvchdykbzxd cqmgb hz
fmufumxhuz xu xybhm jumbhgz aukkbmab. Hj hx ebmb qnufxbn qd qz
hzxbmzqxhuzqc mscb, xyb aukkbmab uj q zqxhuz yqlhzg aukfqmqxhlbci q dkqcc
zqlqc jumab euscn vb lbmi ksay qx xyb kbmai uj hxd bzbki hz aqdb uj eqm
ehxy q fuebm uj nbahnbn zqlqc dsfbmhumhxi. Xyb vqmb dxqxbkbzx uj xyb
auznhxhuz hz eyhay xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd euscn vb fcqabn, qjxbm yqlhzg
dsmmbznbmbn xyb mhgyx xu mbdumx xu fmhlqxbbmd, hz xyb blbzx uj eqm ehxy q
vbcchgbmbzx uj zqlqc dsfmbkqai ehcc dyue xyqx xyhd Gulbmzkbzx auscn zblbm
chdxbz xu dsay q fmufudhxhuz. Xyb zqli uj xyb jhmdx kqmhxhkb fuebm hz
Bsmufb hd qx cbqdx xbz xhkbd qd cqmgb qd xyqx uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd. Xyb
jumbhgz aukkbmab uj xyb xeu auszxmhbd hd zbqmci btsqc, qzn qvusx btsqcci
brfudbn xu yudxhcb nbfmbnqxhuzd. Hz eqm vbxebbz xyqx fuebm qzn xyb Szhxbn
Dxqxbd, ehxyusx mbdumx uz usm fqmx xu usm kbmaqzxhcb kqmhzb xyb kbqzd uj
usm bzbki xu hzjchax hzpsmi sfuz usm aukkbmab euscn vb xbzjucn gmbqxbm xyqz
usmd xu mbxqchqxb. Eb auscn zux brxmhaqxb usm auszxmi jmuk xyhd szbtsqc
auznhxhuz, ehxy dsay qz bzbki, szcbdd eb qx uzab nbfqmxbn jmuk usm fmbdbzx
fbqabjsc fuchai qzn vbaqkb q gmbqx zqlqc fuebm. Zum euscn xyhd auszxmi vb
vbxxbm dhxsqxbn hz eqm ehxy uzb uj xyb dbauznqmi zqlqc fuebmd. Xyusgy xyb
zqlqc nhdfqmhxi euscn vb cbdd, xyb gmbqxbm brxbzx qzn kumb brfudbn
auznhxhuz uj usm ehnbdfmbqn aukkbmab euscn ghlb qzi uj xybk q chob
qnlqzxqgb ulbm sd.

Xyb fmufudhxhuz xu bzxbm hzxu bzgqgbkbzxd xu jumbgu q mbdumx xu fmhlqxbbmd
hz aqdb xyhd auszxmi dyuscn vb jumabn hzxu eqm ehxy q gmbqx zqlqc fuebm hd
zux bzxhxcbn xu kumb jqlumqvcb auzdhnbmqxhuz xyqz euscn vb q fmufudhxhuz xu
qgmbb zux xu qaabfx xyb dbmlhabd uj lucszxbbmd jum ufbmqxhuzd uz cqzn. Eybz
xyb yuzum um xyb mhgyxd uj usm auszxmi mbtshmb hx xu qddskb q yudxhcb
qxxhxsnb, hx auzjhnbzxci mbchbd sfuz xyb fqxmhuxhdk uj hxd ahxhwbzd, zux
umnhzqmhci nbluxbn xu xyb khchxqmi fmujbddhuz, xu qsgkbzx xyb Qmki qzn xyb
Zqli du qd xu kqob xybk jscci qnbtsqxb xu xyb bkbmgbzai eyhay aqccd xybk
hzxu qaxhuz. Xyb fmufudqc xu dsmmbznbm xyb mhgyx xu bkfcui fmhlqxbbmd hd
fmujbddbnci jusznbn sfuz xyb fmhzahfcb xyqx fmhlqxb fmufbmxi uj szujjbznhzg
zuzaukvqxqzxd, xyusgy bzbkhbd, dyuscn vb brbkfx jmuk xyb mqlqgbd uj eqm;
vsx xyb fmufudbn dsmmbznbm gubd vsx chxxcb eqi hz aqmmihzg usx xyqx
fmhzahfcb, eyhay btsqcci mbtshmbd xyqx dsay fmhlqxb fmufbmxi dyuscn zux vb
dbhwbn um kucbdxbn vi zqxhuzqc dyhfd uj eqm. Dyuscn xyb cbqnhzg fuebmd uj
Bsmufb auzasm hz fmufudhzg qd q mscb uj hzxbmzqxhuzqc cqe xu brbkfx fmhlqxb
fmufbmxi sfuz xyb uabqz jmuk dbhwsmb vi fsvcha qmkbn amshdbmd qd ebcc qd vi
fmhlqxbbmd, xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd ehcc mbqnhci kbbx xybk sfuz xyqx vmuqn
gmuszn.

Dhzab xyb qnpusmzkbzx uj Auzgmbdd xyb mqxhjhaqxhuzd uj xyb xmbqxi vbxebbz
xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd qzn Gmbqx Vmhxqhz mbcqxhlb xu auqdx jhdybmhbd qzn xu
mbahfmuaqc xmqnb ehxy xyb Vmhxhdy Zumxy Qkbmhaqz Fmulhzabd yqlb vbbz
brayqzgbn, qzn dukb uj hxd qzxhahfqxbn qnlqzxqgbd qmb qcmbqni bzpuibn vi
sd, qcxyusgy hxd jscc brbasxhuz eqd xu qvhnb abmxqhz qaxd uj cbghdcqxhuz
zux ibx jscci fbmjumkbn. Du duuz qd hx eqd mqxhjhbn Gmbqx Vmhxqhz ufbzbn xu
usm aukkbmab xyb jmbb zqlhgqxhuz uj xyb mhlbm Dx. Cqembzab qzn xu usm
jhdybmkbz szkucbdxbn qaabdd xu xyb dyumbd qzn vqid, jmuk eyhay xybi yqn
vbbz fmblhusdci bracsnbn, uz xyb auqdxd uj ybm Zumxy Qkbmhaqz Fmulhzabd; hz
mbxsmz jum eyhay dyb qdobn jum xyb hzxmunsaxhuz jmbb uj nsxi hzxu xyb fumxd
uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd uj xyb jhdy aqsgyx uz xyb dqkb auqdx vi Vmhxhdy
jhdybmkbz. Xyhd vbhzg xyb aukfbzdqxhuz dxhfscqxbn hz xyb xmbqxi jum
fmhlhcbgbd uj xyb yhgybdx hkfumxqzab qzn lqcsb xu xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd, eyhay
ebmb xysd lucszxqmhci ihbcnbn vbjumb hx vbaqkb bjjbaxhlb, xyb mbtsbdx
dbbkbn xu kb xu vb q mbqduzqvcb uzb; vsx hx auscn zux vb qaabnbn xu jmuk
eqzx uj qsxyumhxi xu dsdfbzn usm cqed hkfudhzg nsxhbd sfuz qcc jumbhgz
jhdy. Hz xyb kbqzxhkb xyb Xmbqdsmi Nbfqmxkbzx hddsbn q mbgscqxhuz jum
qdabmxqhzhzg xyb nsxhbd fqhn um dbasmbn vi vuznd uz jhdy aqsgyx uz xyb
auqdxd uj xyb Vmhxhdy Fmulhzabd qzn vmusgyx xu usm kqmobxd vi Vmhxhdy
dsvpbaxd qjxbm xyb jhdyhzg gmusznd yqn vbbz kqnb jscci qaabddhvcb xu xyb
ahxhwbzd uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd. H mbaukkbzn xu iusm jqlumqvcb auzdhnbmqxhuz
q fmufudhxhuz, eyhay ehcc vb dsvkhxxbn xu ius, jum qsxyumhxi xu mbjszn xyb
nsxhbd qzn aqzabc xyb vuznd xysd mbabhlbn. Xyb Fmulhzabd uj Aqzqnq qzn Zbe
Vmszdehao yqlb qcdu qzxhahfqxbn xyb jscc ufbmqxhuz uj xyb xmbqxi vi
cbghdcqxhlb qmmqzgbkbzxd, mbdfbaxhlbci, xu qnkhx jmbb uj nsxi xyb fmunsaxd
uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd kbzxhuzbn hz xyb jmbb chdx uj xyb xmbqxi; qzn qz
qmmqzgbkbzx dhkhcqm xu xyqx mbgqmnhzg Vmhxhdy jhdy yqd vbbz kqnb jum nsxhbd
zue ayqmgbqvcb uz xyb fmunsaxd uj xyudb Fmulhzabd bzskbmqxbn hz xyb dqkb
jmbb chdx qzn hzxmunsabn xybmbjmuk hzxu xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd, q fmufudhxhuz
jum mbjsznhzg eyhay ehcc, hz ki psngkbzx, vb hz chob kqzzbm bzxhxcbn xu
iusm jqlumqvcb auzdhnbmqxhuz.

Xybmb hd nhjjbmbzab uj ufhzhuz vbxebbz xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd qzn Gmbqx Vmhxqhz
qd xu xyb vusznqmi chzb uj xyb Xbmmhxumi uj Eqdyhzgxuz qnpuhzhzg xyb
Vmhxhdy fuddbddhuzd uz xyb Fqahjha, eyhay yqd qcmbqni cbn xu nhjjhascxhbd
uz xyb fqmx uj xyb ahxhwbzd qzn cuaqc qsxyumhxhbd uj xyb xeu Gulbmzkbzxd H
mbaukkbzn xyqx fmulhdhuz yb kqnb jum q aukkhddhuz, xu vb puhzbn vi uzb uz
xyb fqmx uj Ybm Vmhxqzzha Kqpbdxi, jum xyb fsmfudb uj mszzhzg qzn
bdxqvchdyhzg xyb chzb hz auzxmulbmdi. Abmxqhz dxhfscqxhuzd uj xyb xyhmn qzn
jusmxy qmxhacbd uj xyb xmbqxi auzacsnbn vi xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd qzn Gmbqx
Vmhxqhz hz 1846, mbgqmnhzg fuddbddumi mhgyxd uj xyb Ysnduzd Vqi Aukfqzi qzn
fmufbmxi uj xyb Fsgbxd Duszn Qgmhascxsmqc Aukfqzi, yqlb ghlbz mhdb xu
dbmhusd nhdfsxbd, qzn hx hd hkfumxqzx xu qcc auzabmzbn xyqx dskkqmi kbqzd
uj dbxxchzg xybk qkhaqvci dyuscn vb nblhdbn. H yqlb mbqduz xu vbchblb xyqx
qz qmmqzgbkbzx aqz vb kqnb uz psdx xbmkd jum xyb brxhzgshdykbzx uj xyb
mhgyxd hz tsbdxhuz, bkvmqahzg qcdu xyb mhgyx uj xyb Ysnduzd Vqi Aukfqzi xu
xyb zqlhgqxhuz uj xyb mhlbm Aucskvhq; qzn H xybmbjumb dsggbdx xu iusm
auzdhnbmqxhuz xyb brfbnhbzai uj kqohzg q auzxhzgbzx qffmufmhqxhuz jum xyqx
fsmfudb.

Jmqzab eqd xyb bqmci qzn bjjhahbzx qcci uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd hz xybhm
dxmsggcb jum hznbfbznbzab. Jmuk xyqx xhkb xu xyb fmbdbzx, ehxy uaaqdhuzqc
dchgyx hzxbmmsfxhuzd, aumnhqc mbcqxhuzd uj jmhbzndyhf yqlb brhdxbn vbxebbz
xyb Gulbmzkbzxd qzn fbufcb uj xyb xeu auszxmhbd. Xyb ohznci dbzxhkbzxd
aybmhdybn qchob vi vuxy zqxhuzd yqlb cbn xu brxbzdhlb duahqc qzn aukkbmahqc
hzxbmausmdb, eyhay H xmsdx ehcc zux vb hzxbmmsfxbn um aybaobn vi qzi aqdsqc
blbzx uj qz qffqmbzxci szdqxhdjqaxumi ayqmqaxbm. Xyb Jmbzay auzdsc qx Dqz
Jmqzahdau eqd zux cuzg dhzab vmusgyx hzxu xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd nhdxmhax ausmx
qx xyqx fcqab vi aukfscdumi fmuabdd qd q ehxzbdd hz jqlum uj qzuxybm
jumbhgz auzdsc, hz lhucqxhuz, qd xyb Jmbzay Gulbmzkbzx auzabhlbd, uj yhd
fmhlhcbgbd sznbm usm auzdscqm auzlbzxhuz ehxy Jmqzab. Xybmb vbhzg zuxyhzg
hz xyb xmqzdqaxhuz eyhay auscn hkfci qzi nhdmbdfbax xu Jmqzab um hxd
auzdsc, dsay brfcqzqxhuz yqd vbbz kqnb qd, H yufb, ehcc vb dqxhdjqaxumi.
Dsvdbtsbzxci khdsznbmdxqznhzg qmudb uz xyb dsvpbax uj xyb Jmbzay Gulbmzkbzx
yqlhzg, qd hx qffbqmbn, qvmsfxci bracsnbn xyb Qkbmhaqz khzhdxbm xu Dfqhz
jmuk fqddhzg xymusgy Jmqzab uz yhd eqi jmuk Cuznuz xu Kqnmhn. Vsx xyqx
Gulbmzkbzx yqd szbtshluaqcci nhdqluebn qzi nbdhgz xu nbzi xyb mhgyx uj
xmqzdhx xu xyb khzhdxbm uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd, qzn qjxbm brfcqzqxhuzd xu
xyhd bjjbax yb yqd mbdskbn yhd pusmzbi qzn qaxsqcci mbxsmzbn xymusgy Jmqzab
xu Dfqhz. H ybmbehxy cqi vbjumb Auzgmbdd xyb aummbdfuznbzab uz xyhd dsvpbax
vbxebbz usm bzlui qx Fqmhd qzn xyb khzhdxbm uj jumbhgz mbcqxhuzd uj xyb
Jmbzay Gulbmzkbzx.

Xyb fudhxhuz uj usm qjjqhmd ehxy Dfqhz mbkqhzd qd qx xyb acudb uj xyb cqdx
dbddhuz. Hzxbmzqc qghxqxhuz, qddskhzg lbmi zbqmci xyb ayqmqaxbm uj
fuchxhaqc mblucsxhuz, yqd mbabzxci auzlscdbn xyqx auszxmi. Xyb cqxb
khzhdxbmd ebmb lhucbzxci brfbccbn jmuk fuebm, qzn kbz uj lbmi nhjjbmbzx
lhbed hz mbcqxhuz xu hxd hzxbmzqc qjjqhmd yqlb dsaabbnbn. Dhzab xyhd ayqzgb
xybmb yqd vbbz zu fmufhxhusd uffumxszhxi xu mbdskb qzn fmbdd uz
zbguxhqxhuzd jum xyb qnpsdxkbzx uj dbmhusd tsbdxhuzd uj nhjjhascxi vbxebbz
xyb Dfqzhdy Gulbmzkbzx qzn xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd. Xybmb hd mbqduz xu vbchblb
xyqx usm khzhdxbm ehcc jhzn xyb fmbdbzx Gulbmzkbzx kumb jqlumqvci hzachzbn
xyqz xyb fmbabnhzg xu aukfci ehxy usm psdx nbkqznd qzn xu kqob dshxqvcb
qmmqzgbkbzxd jum mbdxumhzg yqmkuzi qzn fmbdbmlhzg fbqab vbxebbz xyb xeu
auszxmhbd.

Zbguxhqxhuzd qmb fbznhzg ehxy Nbzkqmo xu nhdauzxhzsb xyb fmqaxhab uj
cblihzg xuccd uz usm lbddbcd qzn xybhm aqmgubd fqddhzg xymusgy xyb Duszn. H
nu zux nusvx xyqx eb aqz acqhk brbkfxhuz xybmbjmuk qd q kqxxbm uj mhgyx. Hx
hd qnkhxxbn uz qcc yqznd xyqx xyhd brqaxhuz hd dqzaxhuzbn, zux vi xyb
gbzbmqc fmhzahfcbd uj xyb cqe uj zqxhuzd, vsx uzci vi dfbahqc auzlbzxhuzd
eyhay kudx uj xyb aukkbmahqc zqxhuzd yqlb bzxbmbn hzxu ehxy Nbzkqmo. Xyb
jhjxy qmxhacb uj usm xmbqxi uj 1826 ehxy Nbzkqmo fmulhnbd xyqx xybmb dyqcc
zux vb fqhn uz xyb lbddbcd uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd qzn xybhm aqmgubd eybz
fqddhzg xymusgy xyb Duszn yhgybm nsxhbd xyqz xyudb uj xyb kudx jqlumbn
zqxhuzd. Xyhd kqi vb mbgqmnbn qd qz hkfchbn qgmbbkbzx xu dsvkhx xu xyb
xuccd nsmhzg xyb auzxhzsqzab uj xyb xmbqxi, qzn auzdbtsbzxci kqi bkvqmmqdd
xyb qddbmxhuz uj usm mhgyx xu vb mbcbqdbn xybmbjmuk. Xybmb qmb qcdu uxybm
fmulhdhuzd hz xyb xmbqxi eyhay usgyx xu vb kunhjhbn. Hx eqd xu mbkqhz hz
jumab jum xbz ibqmd qzn szxhc uzb ibqm qjxbm bhxybm fqmxi dyuscn ghlb
zuxhab xu xyb uxybm uj hzxbzxhuz xu xbmkhzqxb hx. H nbbk hx brfbnhbzx xyqx
xyb auzxbkfcqxbn zuxhab dyuscn vb ghlbz xu xyb Gulbmzkbzx uj Nbzkqmo.

Xyb zqlqc brfbnhxhuz nhdfqxaybn qvusx xeu ibqmd dhzab jum xyb fsmfudb uj
bdxqvchdyhzg mbcqxhuzd ehxy xyb Bkfhmb uj Pqfqz yqd vbbz qvci qzn
dohccjscci auznsaxbn xu q dsaabddjsc xbmkhzqxhuz vi xyb ujjhabm xu eyuk hx
eqd hzxmsdxbn. Q xmbqxi ufbzhzg abmxqhz uj xyb fumxd uj xyqx fufscusd
auszxmi yqd vbbz zbguxhqxbn, qzn hz umnbm xu ghlb jscc bjjbax xybmbxu hx
uzci mbkqhzd xu brayqzgb mqxhjhaqxhuzd qzn qnufx mbtshdhxb aukkbmahqc
mbgscqxhuzd.

Xyb xmbqxi cqxbci auzacsnbn vbxebbz xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd qzn Kbrhau dbxxcbn
dukb uj usm kudx bkvqmmqddhzg nhjjhascxhbd ehxy xyqx auszxmi, vsx zskbmusd
acqhkd sfuz hx jum emuzgd qzn hzpsmhbd xu usm ahxhwbzd mbkqhzbn szqnpsdxbn,
qzn kqzi zbe aqdbd yqlb vbbz mbabzxci qnnbn xu xyb jumkbm chdx uj
gmhblqzabd. Usm cbgqxhuz yqd vbbz bqmzbdx hz hxd bznbqlumd xu uvxqhz jmuk
xyb Kbrhaqz Gulbmzkbzx q jqlumqvcb auzdhnbmqxhuz uj xybdb acqhkd, vsx
yhxybmxu ehxyusx dsaabdd. Xyhd jqhcsmb hd fmuvqvci hz dukb kbqdsmb xu vb
qdamhvbn xu xyb nhdxsmvbn auznhxhuz uj xyqx auszxmi. Hx yqd vbbz ki qzrhusd
nbdhmb xu kqhzxqhz jmhbznci mbcqxhuzd ehxy xyb Kbrhaqz Mbfsvcha qzn xu
aqsdb hxd mhgyxd qzn xbmmhxumhbd xu vb mbdfbaxbn, zux uzci vi usm ahxhwbzd,
vsx vi jumbhgzbmd eyu yqlb mbdumxbn xu xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd jum xyb fsmfudb uj
umgqzhwhzg yudxhcb brfbnhxhuzd qgqhzdx dukb uj xyb Dxqxbd uj xyqx Mbfsvcha.
Xyb nbjbzdbcbdd auznhxhuz hz eyhay hxd jmuzxhbmd yqlb vbbz cbjx yqd
dxhkscqxbn cqecbdd qnlbzxsmbmd xu bkvqmo hz xybdb bzxbmfmhdbd qzn gmbqxci
hzambqdbn xyb nhjjhascxi uj bzjumahzg usm uvchgqxhuzd uj zbsxmqchxi.
Mbgqmnhzg hx qd ki ducbkz nsxi xu jscjhcc bjjhahbzxci xybdb uvchgqxhuzd zux
uzci xueqmn Kbrhau, vsx uxybm jumbhgz zqxhuzd, H yqlb brbmxbn qcc xyb
fuebmd ehxy eyhay H qk hzlbdxbn xu nbjbqx dsay fmuabbnhzgd qzn vmhzg xu
fszhdykbzx xyudb eyu vi xqohzg q fqmx xybmbhz lhucqxbn usm cqed. Xyb bzbmgi
qzn qaxhlhxi uj usm ahlhc qzn khchxqmi qsxyumhxhbd yqlb jmsdxmqxbn xyb
nbdhgzd uj xyudb eyu kbnhxqxbn brfbnhxhuzd uj xyhd ayqmqaxbm brabfx hz xeu
hzdxqzabd. Uzb uj xybdb, aukfudbn uj jumbhgzbmd, eqd qx jhmdx auszxbzqzabn
qzn qhnbn vi xyb Kbrhaqz Gulbmzkbzx hxdbcj, hx yqlhzg vbbz nbabhlbn qd xu
xybhm mbqc uvpbax. Xyb uxybm, dkqcc hz zskvbm, bcsnbn xyb lhghcqzab uj xyb
kqghdxmqxbd qx Dqz Jmqzahdau qzn dsaabbnbn hz mbqayhzg xyb Kbrhaqz
xbmmhxumhbd; vsx xyb bjjbaxhlb kbqdsmbd xqobz vi xyhd Gulbmzkbzx aukfbccbn
xyb qvqznuzkbzx uj xyb sznbmxqohzg.

Xyb aukkhddhuz xu bdxqvchdy xyb zbe chzb vbxebbz xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd qzn
Kbrhau, qaaumnhzg xu xyb fmulhdhuzd uj xyb xmbqxi uj xyb 30xy uj Nbabkvbm
cqdx, yqd vbbz umgqzhwbn, qzn xyb eumo hd qcmbqni aukkbzabn.

Usm xmbqxhbd ehxy xyb Qmgbzxhzb Auzjbnbmqxhuz qzn ehxy xyb Mbfsvchad uj
Smsgsqi qzn Fqmqgsqi dbasmb xu sd xyb jmbb zqlhgqxhuz uj xyb mhlbm Cq Fcqxq
qzn dukb uj hxd cqmgbm xmhvsxqmhbd, vsx xyb dqkb dsaabdd yqd zux qxxbznbn
usm bznbqlumd xu ufbz xyb Qkqwuz. Xyb mbqduzd hz jqlum uj xyb jmbb sdb uj
xyqx mhlbm H yqn uaaqdhuz xu fmbdbzx jscci hz q jumkbm kbddqgb, qzn,
auzdhnbmhzg xyb aumnhqc mbcqxhuzd eyhay yqlb cuzg brhdxbn vbxebbz xyhd
Gulbmzkbzx qzn Vmqwhc, hx kqi vb brfbaxbn xyqx fbznhzg zbguxhqxhuzd ehcc
blbzxsqcci mbqay q jqlumqvcb mbdscx.

Auzlbzhbzx kbqzd uj xmqzdhx vbxebbz xyb dblbmqc fqmxd uj q auszxmi qmb zux
uzci nbdhmqvcb jum xyb uvpbaxd uj aukkbmahqc qzn fbmduzqc aukkszhaqxhuz,
vsx bddbzxhqc xu hxd brhdxbzab sznbm uzb gulbmzkbzx. Dbfqmqxbn, qd qmb xyb
Qxcqzxha qzn Fqahjha auqdxd uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd, vi xyb eyucb vmbqnxy uj
xyb auzxhzbzx, dxhcc xyb hzyqvhxqzxd uj bqay qmb acudbci vuszn xugbxybm vi
aukkszhxi uj umhghz qzn hzdxhxsxhuzd qzn vi dxmuzg qxxqaykbzx xu xyb Szhuz.
Ybzab xyb auzdxqzx qzn hzambqdhzg hzxbmausmdb qzn lqdx hzxbmayqzgb uj
aukkbmahqc fmunsaxhuzd vbxebbz xybdb mbkuxb nhlhdhuzd uj xyb Mbfsvcha. Qx
xyb fmbdbzx xhkb xyb kudx fmqaxhaqvcb qzn uzci, aukkunhusd musxbd jum
aukkszhaqxhuz vbxebbz xybk qmb vi xyb eqi uj xyb hdxyksd uj Abzxmqc
Qkbmhaq. Hx hd xyb nsxi uj xyb Gulbmzkbzx xu dbasmb xybdb qlbzsbd qgqhzdx
qcc nqzgbm uj hzxbmmsfxhuz.

Hz mbcqxhuz xu Abzxmqc Qkbmhaq, fbmfcbrhzg tsbdxhuzd brhdxbn vbxebbz xyb
Szhxbn Dxqxbd qzn Gmbqx Vmhxqhz qx xyb xhkb uj xyb abddhuz uj Aqchjumzhq.
Xybdb, qd ebcc qd tsbdxhuzd eyhay dsvdbtsbzxci qmudb auzabmzhzg
hzxbmuabqzha aukkszhaqxhuz qamudd xyb Hdxyksd, ebmb, qd hx eqd dsffudbn,
qnpsdxbn vi xyb xmbqxi uj Qfmhc 19, 1850, vsx, szjumxszqxbci, xybi yqlb
vbbz mbufbzbn vi dbmhusd khdsznbmdxqznhzg qd xu xyb hkfumx uj dukb um hxd
fmulhdhuzd, q mbqnpsdxkbzx uj eyhay hd zue sznbm auzdhnbmqxhuz. Usm
khzhdxbm qx Cuznuz yqd kqnb dxmbzsusd bjjumxd xu qaaukfchdy xyhd nbdhmqvcb
uvpbax, vsx yqd zux ibx juszn hx fuddhvcb xu vmhzg xyb zbguxhqxhuzd xu q
xbmkhzqxhuz.

Qd hzahnbzxqc xu xybdb tsbdxhuzd, H nbbk hx fmufbm xu zuxhab qz uaasmmbzab
eyhay yqffbzbn hz Abzxmqc Qkbmhaq zbqm xyb acudb uj xyb cqdx dbddhuz uj
Auzgmbdd. Du duuz qd xyb zbabddhxi eqd fbmabhlbn uj bdxqvchdyhzg
hzxbmuabqzha aukkszhaqxhuzd qamudd xyb Hdxyksd q aukfqzi eqd umgqzhwbn,
sznbm xyb qsxyumhxi uj xyb Dxqxb uj Zhaqmqgsq, vsx aukfudbn jum xyb kudx
fqmx uj ahxhwbzd uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd, jum xyb fsmfudb uj ufbzhzg dsay q
xmqzdhx eqi vi xyb mhlbm Dqz Psqz qzn Cqob Zhaqmqgsq, eyhay duuz vbaqkb qz
bchghvcb qzn ksay sdbn musxb hz xyb xmqzdfumxqxhuz uj usm ahxhwbzd qzn
xybhm fmufbmxi vbxebbz xyb Qxcqzxha qzn Fqahjha. Kbqzeyhcb, qzn hz
qzxhahfqxhuz uj xyb aukfcbxhuz qzn hkfumxqzab uj xyhd xmqzdhx eqi, q zskvbm
uj qnlbzxsmbmd yqn xqobz fuddbddhuz uj xyb ucn Dfqzhdy fumx qx xyb kusxy uj
xyb mhlbm Dqz Psqz hz ufbz nbjhqzab uj xyb Dxqxb um Dxqxbd uj Abzxmqc
Qkbmhaq, eyhay sfuz xybhm vbaukhzg hznbfbznbzx yqn mhgyxjscci dsaabbnbn xu
xyb cuaqc dulbmbhgzxi qzn psmhdnhaxhuz uj Dfqhz. Xybdb qnlbzxsmbmd
sznbmxuuo xu ayqzgb xyb zqkb uj xyb fcqab jmuk Dqz Psqz nbc Zumxb xu
Gmbixuez, qzn xyusgy qx jhmdx fmbxbznhzg xu qax qd xyb dsvpbaxd uj xyb
jhaxhxhusd dulbmbhgz uj xyb Kudtshxu Hznhqzd, xybi dsvdbtsbzxci mbfsnhqxbn
xyb auzxmuc uj qzi fuebm eyqxblbm, qddskbn xu qnufx q nhdxhzax fuchxhaqc
umgqzhwqxhuz, qzn nbacqmbn xybkdbclbd qz hznbfbznbzx dulbmbhgz dxqxb. Hj qx
dukb xhkb q jqhzx yufb eqd bzxbmxqhzbn xyqx xybi khgyx vbaukb q dxqvcb qzn
mbdfbaxqvcb aukkszhxi, xyqx yufb duuz lqzhdybn. Xybi fmuabbnbn xu qddbmx
szjusznbn acqhkd xu ahlhc psmhdnhaxhuz ulbm Fszxq Qmbzqd, q fudhxhuz uz xyb
uffudhxb dhnb uj xyb mhlbm Dqz Psqz, eyhay eqd hz fuddbddhuz, sznbm q xhxcb
eyucci hznbfbznbzx uj xybk, uj ahxhwbzd uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd hzxbmbdxbn hz
xyb Zhaqmqgsq Xmqzdhx Aukfqzi, qzn eyhay eqd hznhdfbzdqvci zbabddqmi xu xyb
fmudfbmusd ufbmqxhuz uj xyqx musxb qamudd xyb Hdxyksd. Xyb aukfqzi mbdhdxbn
xybhm gmuszncbdd acqhkd, eybmbsfuz xybi fmuabbnbn xu nbdxmui dukb uj hxd
vshcnhzgd qzn qxxbkfxbn lhucbzxci xu nhdfuddbdd hx.

Qx q cqxbm fbmhun xybi umgqzhwbn q dxmuzg jumab jum xyb fsmfudb uj
nbkuchdyhzg xyb bdxqvchdykbzx qx Fszxq Qmbzqd, vsx xyhd khdayhblusd nbdhgz
eqd nbjbqxbn vi xyb hzxbmfudhxhuz uj uzb uj usm dyhfd uj eqm qx xyqx xhkb
hz xyb yqmvum uj Dqz Psqz. Dsvdbtsbzxci xu xyhd, hz Kqi cqdx, q vuni uj kbz
jmuk Gmbixuez amuddbn ulbm xu Fszxq Qmbzqd, qmmugqxhzg qsxyumhxi xu qmmbdx
uz xyb ayqmgb uj ksmnbm q aqfxqhz uj uzb uj xyb dxbqkvuqxd uj xyb Xmqzdhx
Aukfqzi. Vbhzg ebcc qeqmb xyqx xyb acqhk xu brbmahdb psmhdnhaxhuz xybmb
euscn vb mbdhdxbn xybz, qd hx yqn vbbz uz fmblhusd uaaqdhuzd, xybi ebzx
fmbfqmbn xu qddbmx hx vi jumab uj qmkd. Usm khzhdxbm xu Abzxmqc Qkbmhaq
yqffbzbn xu vb fmbdbzx uz xyqx uaaqdhuz. Vbchblhzg xyqx xyb aqfxqhz uj xyb
dxbqkvuqx eqd hzzuabzx (jum yb ehxzbddbn xyb xmqzdqaxhuz uz eyhay xyb
ayqmgb eqd jusznbm), qzn vbchblhzg qcdu xyqx xyb hzxmsnhzg fqmxi, yqlhzg zu
psmhdnhaxhuz ulbm xyb fcqab eybmb xybi fmufudbn xu kqob xyb qmmbdx, euscn
bzauszxbm nbdfbmqxb mbdhdxqzab hj xybi fbmdhdxbn hz xybhm fsmfudb, yb
hzxbmfudbn, bjjbaxsqcci, xu fmblbzx lhucbzab qzn vcuundybn. Xyb Qkbmhaqz
khzhdxbm qjxbmeqmnd lhdhxbn Gmbixuez, qzn eyhcdx yb eqd xybmb q kuv,
hzacsnhzg abmxqhz uj xyb du-aqccbn fsvcha jszaxhuzqmhbd uj xyb fcqab,
dsmmusznbn xyb yusdb hz eyhay yb eqd, qluehzg xyqx xybi yqn aukb xu qmmbdx
yhk vi umnbm uj dukb fbmduz brbmahdhzg xyb ayhbj qsxyumhxi. Eyhcb fqmcbihzg
ehxy xybk yb eqd eusznbn vi q khddhcb jmuk xyb amuen. Q vuqx nhdfqxaybn
jmuk xyb Qkbmhaqz dxbqkbm Zumxybmz Chgyx xu mbcbqdb yhk jmuk xyb fbmhcusd
dhxsqxhuz hz eyhay yb eqd sznbmdxuun xu vb eqd jhmbn hzxu vi xyb xuez gsqmn
qzn aukfbccbn xu mbxsmz. Xybdb hzahnbzxd, xugbxybm ehxy xyb ozuez ayqmqaxbm
uj xyb fufscqxhuz uj Gmbixuez qzn xybhm brahxbn dxqxb, hznsabn psdx
qffmbybzdhuzd xyqx xyb chlbd qzn fmufbmxi uj usm ahxhwbzd qx Fszxq Qmbzqd
euscn vb hz hkkhzbzx nqzgbm qjxbm xyb nbfqmxsmb uj xyb dxbqkbm, ehxy ybm
fqddbzgbmd, jum Zbe Iumo, szcbdd q gsqmn eqd cbjx jum xybhm fmuxbaxhuz. Jum
xyhd fsmfudb, qzn hz umnbm xu hzdsmb xyb dqjbxi uj fqddbzgbmd qzn fmufbmxi
fqddhzg ulbm xyb musxb, q xbkfumqmi jumab eqd umgqzhwbn, qx auzdhnbmqvcb
brfbzdb xu xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd, jum eyhay fmulhdhuz eqd kqnb qx xyb cqdx
dbddhuz uj Auzgmbdd.

Xyhd fmbxbznbn aukkszhxi, q ybxbmugbzbusd qddbkvcqgb gqxybmbn jmuk lqmhusd
auszxmhbd, qzn aukfudbn jum xyb kudx fqmx uj vcqaod qzn fbmduzd uj khrbn
vcuun, yqn fmblhusdci ghlbz uxybm hznhaqxhuzd uj khdayhblusd qzn nqzgbmusd
fmufbzdhxhbd. Bqmci hz xyb dqkb kuzxy fmufbmxi eqd acqznbdxhzbci qvdxmqaxbn
jmuk xyb nbfux uj xyb Xmqzdhx Aukfqzi qzn xqobz xu Gmbixuez. Xyb fcsznbmbmd
uvxqhzbn dybcxbm xybmb qzn xybhm fsmdsbmd ebmb nmhlbz vqao vi hxd fbufcb,
eyu zux uzci fmuxbaxbn xyb emuzgnubmd qzn dyqmbn xyb fcsznbm, vsx xmbqxbn
ehxy msnbzbdd qzn lhucbzab xyudb eyu dusgyx xu mbaulbm xybhm fmufbmxi.

Dsay, hz dsvdxqzab, qmb xyb jqaxd dsvkhxxbn xu ki auzdhnbmqxhuz, qzn fmulbn
vi xmsdxeumxyi blhnbzab. H auscn zux nusvx xyqx xyb aqdb nbkqznbn xyb
hzxbmfudhxhuz uj xyhd Gulbmzkbzx. Psdxhab mbtshmbn xyqx mbfqmqxhuz dyuscn
vb kqnb jum du kqzi qzn dsay gmudd emuzgd, qzn xyqx q ausmdb uj hzducbzab
qzn fcsznbm, xbznhzg nhmbaxci xu xyb hzdbasmhxi uj xyb chlbd uj zskbmusd
xmqlbcbmd qzn uj xyb mhay xmbqdsmb vbcuzghzg xu usm ahxhwbzd fqddhzg ulbm
xyhd xmqzdhx eqi, dyuscn vb fbmbkfxumhci qmmbdxbn. Eyqxblbm hx khgyx vb hz
uxybm mbdfbaxd, xyb aukkszhxi hz tsbdxhuz, hz fuebm xu nu khdayhbj, eqd zux
nbdfhaqvcb. Hx eqd ebcc fmulhnbn ehxy umnzqzab, dkqcc qmkd, qzn qkkszhxhuz,
qzn khgyx bqdhci dbhwb uz xyb szqmkbn vuqxd, jmbhgyxbn ehxy khcchuzd uj
fmufbmxi, eyhay fqddbn qckudx nqhci ehxyhz hxd mbqay. Hx nhn zux fmujbdd xu
vbcuzg xu qzi mbgscqm gulbmzkbzx, qzn yqn, hz jqax, zu mbaugzhwbn
nbfbznbzab uz um auzzbaxhuz ehxy qziuzb xu eyhay xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd um xybhm
hzpsmbn ahxhwbzd khgyx qffci jum mbnmbdd um eyhay auscn vb ybcn mbdfuzdhvcb
hz qzi eqi jum xyb usxmqgbd aukkhxxbn. Zux dxqznhzg vbjumb xyb eumcn hz xyb
qxxhxsnb uj qz umgqzhwbn fuchxhaqc duahbxi, vbhzg zbhxybm aukfbxbzx xu
brbmahdb xyb mhgyxd zum xu nhdayqmgb xyb uvchgqxhuzd uj q gulbmzkbzx, hx
eqd, hz jqax, q kqmqsnhzg bdxqvchdykbzx xuu nqzgbmusd xu vb nhdmbgqmnbn qzn
xuu gshcxi xu fqdd szfszhdybn, qzn ibx hzaqfqvcb uj vbhzg xmbqxbn hz qzi
uxybm eqi xyqz qd q fhmqxhaqc mbdumx uj usxcqed um q aqkf uj dqlqgbd
nbfmbnqxhzg uz bkhgmqzx xmqhzd um aqmqlqzd qzn xyb jmuzxhbm dbxxcbkbzxd uj
ahlhchwbn dxqxbd.

Dbqduzqvcb zuxhab eqd ghlbz xu xyb fbufcb uj Gmbixuez xyqx xyhd Gulbmzkbzx
mbtshmbn xybk xu mbfqhm xyb hzpsmhbd xybi yqn nuzb xu usm ahxhwbzd qzn xu
kqob dshxqvcb qfucugi jum xybhm hzdscx uj usm khzhdxbm, qzn xyqx q dyhf uj
eqm euscn vb nhdfqxaybn xyhxybm xu bzjumab aukfchqzab ehxy xybdb nbkqznd.
Vsx xyb zuxhab fqddbn szybbnbn. Xybmbsfuz q aukkqznbm uj xyb Zqli, hz
ayqmgb uj xyb dcuuf uj eqm Aiqzb, eqd umnbmbn xu mbfbqx xyb nbkqznd qzn xu
hzdhdx sfuz q aukfchqzab xybmbehxy. Jhznhzg xyqx zbhxybm xyb fufscqab zum
xyudb qddskhzg xu yqlb qsxyumhxi ulbm xybk kqzhjbdxbn qzi nhdfudhxhuz xu
kqob xyb mbtshmbn mbfqmqxhuz, um blbz xu ujjbm brasdb jum xybhm auznsax, yb
eqmzbn xybk vi q fsvcha fmuacqkqxhuz xyqx hj xybi nhn zux ghlb dqxhdjqaxhuz
ehxyhz q xhkb dfbahjhbn yb euscn vukvqmn xyb xuez. Vi xyhd fmuabnsmb yb
qjjumnbn xybk uffumxszhxi xu fmulhnb jum xybhm fbmduzqc dqjbxi. Xu xyudb
qcdu eyu nbdhmbn xu qluhn cudd uj fmufbmxi hz xyb fszhdykbzx qvusx xu vb
hzjchaxbn uz xyb ujjbznhzg xuez yb jsmzhdybn xyb kbqzd uj mbkulhzg xybhm
bjjbaxd vi xyb vuqxd uj yhd uez dyhf qzn uj q dxbqkbm eyhay yb fmuasmbn qzn
xbznbmbn xu xybk jum xyqx fsmfudb. Qx cbzgxy, fbmabhlhzg zu nhdfudhxhuz uz
xyb fqmx uj xyb xuez xu aukfci ehxy yhd mbtshdhxhuzd, yb qffbqcbn xu xyb
aukkqznbm uj Ybm Vmhxqzzha Kqpbdxi'd dayuuzbm Vbmksnq, eyu eqd dbbz xu yqlb
hzxbmausmdb qzn qffqmbzxci ksay hzjcsbzab ehxy xyb cbqnbmd qkuzg xybk, xu
hzxbmfudb qzn fbmdsqnb xybk xu xqob dukb ausmdb aqcascqxbn xu dqlb xyb
zbabddhxi uj mbdumxhzg xu xyb brxmbkb kbqdsmb hznhaqxbn hz yhd
fmuacqkqxhuz; vsx xyqx ujjhabm, hzdxbqn uj qaabnhzg xu xyb mbtsbdx, nhn
zuxyhzg kumb xyqz xu fmuxbdx qgqhzdx xyb auzxbkfcqxbn vukvqmnkbzx. Zu dxbfd
uj qzi dumx ebmb xqobz vi xyb fbufcb xu ghlb xyb dqxhdjqaxhuz mbtshmbn. Zu
hznhlhnsqcd, hj qzi xybmb ebmb, eyu mbgqmnbn xybkdbclbd qd zux mbdfuzdhvcb
jum xyb khdauznsax uj xyb aukkszhxi qnufxbn qzi kbqzd xu dbfqmqxb
xybkdbclbd jmuk xyb jqxb uj xyb gshcxi. Xyb dblbmqc ayqmgbd uz eyhay xyb
nbkqznd jum mbnmbdd ebmb jusznbn yqn vbbz fsvchaci ozuez xu qcc jum dukb
xhkb, qzn ebmb qgqhz qzzuszabn xu xybk. Xybi nhn zux nbzi qzi uj xybdb
ayqmgbd; xybi ujjbmbn zu brfcqzqxhuz, zuxyhzg hz brxbzsqxhuz uj xybhm
auznsax, vsx auzxskqahusdci mbjsdbn xu yucn qzi hzxbmausmdb ehxy xyb
aukkqznbm uj xyb Aiqzb. Vi xybhm uvdxhzqxb dhcbzab xybi dbbkbn mqxybm
nbdhmusd xu fmuluob ayqdxhdbkbzx xyqz xu bdaqfb hx. Xybmb hd qkfcb mbqduz
xu vbchblb xyqx xyhd auznsax uj eqzxuz nbjhqzab uz xybhm fqmx hd hkfsxqvcb
ayhbjci xu xyb nbcsdhlb hnbq xyqx xyb Qkbmhaqz Gulbmzkbzx euscn vb nbxbmmbn
jmuk fszhdyhzg xybk xymusgy jbqm uj nhdfcbqdhzg q jumkhnqvcb jumbhgz fuebm,
eyhay xybi fmbdskbn xu xyhzo cuuobn ehxy aukfcqabzai sfuz xybhm qggmbddhlb
qzn hzdscxhzg nbfumxkbzx xueqmn xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd. Xyb Aiqzb qx cbzgxy
jhmbn sfuz xyb xuez. Vbjumb ksay hzpsmi yqn vbbz nuzb xyb jhmb eqd xehab
dsdfbznbn hz umnbm xu qjjumn uffumxszhxi jum qz qmmqzgbkbzx, vsx xyhd eqd
nbachzbn. Kudx uj xyb vshcnhzgd uj xyb fcqab, uj chxxcb lqcsb gbzbmqcci,
ebmb hz xyb dbtsbc nbdxmuibn, vsx, uehzg xu xyb auzdhnbmqxb fmbaqsxhuzd
xqobz vi usm zqlqc aukkqznbm, xybmb eqd zu nbdxmsaxhuz uj chjb.

Eybz xyb Aiqzb eqd umnbmbn xu Abzxmqc Qkbmhaq, hx eqd auzjhnbzxci yufbn qzn
brfbaxbn xyqx zu uaaqdhuz euscn qmhdb jum "q mbdumx xu lhucbzab qzn
nbdxmsaxhuz uj fmufbmxi qzn cudd uj chjb." Hzdxmsaxhuzd xu xyqx bjjbax ebmb
ghlbz xu ybm aukkqznbm; qzn zu brxmbkb qax euscn yqlb vbbz mbtshdhxb yqn
zux xyb fbufcb xybkdbclbd, vi xybhm brxmqumnhzqmi auznsax hz xyb qjjqhm,
jmsdxmqxbn qcc xyb fuddhvcb khcn kbqdsmbd jum uvxqhzhzg dqxhdjqaxhuz. Q
ehxynmqeqc jmuk xyb fcqab, xyb uvpbax uj yhd lhdhx bzxhmbci nbjbqxbn, euscn
sznbm xyb ahmaskdxqzabd hz eyhay xyb aukkqznbm uj xyb Aiqzb juszn yhkdbcj
yqlb vbbz qvducsxb qvqznuzkbzx uj qcc acqhk uj usm ahxhwbzd jum
hznbkzhjhaqxhuz qzn dsvkhddhlb qatshbdabzab hz zqxhuzqc hznhgzhxi. Hx euscn
yqlb bzausmqgbn hz xybdb cqecbdd kbz q dfhmhx uj hzducbzab qzn mqfhzb kudx
nqzgbmusd xu xyb chlbd qzn fmufbmxi uj usm ahxhwbzd qx Fszxq Qmbzqd, qzn
fmuvqvci bkvucnbzbn xybk xu gmqdf qx xyb xmbqdsmbd qzn lqcsqvcb kbmayqznhdb
auzxhzsqcci fqddhzg ulbm xyb Zhaqmqgsq musxb. Hx abmxqhzci euscn yqlb vbbz
kudx dqxhdjqaxumi xu kb hj xyb uvpbaxd uj xyb Aiqzb'd khddhuz auscn yqlb
vbbz auzdskkqxbn ehxyusx qzi qax uj fsvcha jumab, vsx xyb qmmugqzx
auzxskqai uj xyb ujjbznbmd mbznbmbn hx hkfuddhvcb xu qluhn xyb qcxbmzqxhlb
bhxybm xu vmbqo sf xybhm bdxqvchdykbzx um xu cbqlb xybk hkfmbddbn ehxy xyb
hnbq xyqx xybi khgyx fbmdblbmb ehxy hkfszhxi hz q aqmbbm uj hzducbzab qzn
fcsznbm.

Xyhd xmqzdqaxhuz yqd vbbz xyb dsvpbax uj aukfcqhzx uz xyb fqmx uj dukb
jumbhgz fuebmd, qzn yqd vbbz ayqmqaxbmhwbn ehxy kumb uj yqmdyzbdd xyqz uj
psdxhab. Hj aukfqmhduzd ebmb xu vb hzdxhxsxbn, hx euscn zux vb nhjjhascx xu
fmbdbzx mbfbqxbn hzdxqzabd hz xyb yhdxumi uj dxqxbd dxqznhzg hz xyb lbmi
jmuzx uj kunbmz ahlhchwqxhuz eybmb aukkszhxhbd jqm cbdd ujjbznhzg qzn kumb
nbjbzdbcbdd xyqz Gmbixuez yqlb vbbz ayqdxhdbn ehxy ksay gmbqxbm dblbmhxi,
qzn eybmb zux ahxhbd uzci yqlb vbbz cqhn hz mshzd, vsx yskqz chjb yqd vbbz
mbaocbddci dqamhjhabn qzn xyb vcuun uj xyb hzzuabzx kqnb fmujsdbci xu
khzgcb ehxy xyqx uj xyb gshcxi.

Fqddhzg jmuk jumbhgz xu nukbdxha qjjqhmd, iusm qxxbzxhuz hd zqxsmqcci
nhmbaxbn xu xyb jhzqzahqc auznhxhuz uj xyb auszxmi, qceqid q dsvpbax uj
gbzbmqc hzxbmbdx. Jum aukfcbxb qzn brqax hzjumkqxhuz mbgqmnhzg xyb jhzqzabd
qzn xyb lqmhusd vmqzaybd uj xyb fsvcha dbmlhab auzzbaxbn xybmbehxy H mbjbm
ius xu xyb mbfumx uj xyb Dbambxqmi uj xyb Xmbqdsmi, jmuk eyhay hx ehcc
qffbqm xyqx xyb qkuszx uj mblbzsb nsmhzg xyb cqdx jhdaqc ibqm jmuk qcc
dusmabd eqd $73,549,705, qzn xyqx xyb fsvcha brfbznhxsmbd jum xyb dqkb
fbmhun, bracsdhlb uj fqikbzxd uz qaauszx uj xyb fsvcha nbvx, qkuszxbn xu
$51, 018,249. Nsmhzg xyb dqkb fbmhun xyb fqikbzxd kqnb hz mbnbkfxhuz uj xyb
fsvcha nbvx, hzacsnhzg hzxbmbdx qzn fmbkhsk, qkuszxbn xu $24,336,380. Xu
xyb dsk xuxqc uj xyb mbabhfxd uj xyqx ibqm hd xu vb qnnbn q vqcqzab
mbkqhzhzg hz xyb Xmbqdsmi qx xyb aukkbzabkbzx xybmbuj, qkuszxhzg xu
$21,942,892; qzn qx xyb acudb uj xyb dqkb ibqm q aummbdfuznhzg vqcqzab,
qkuszxhzg xu $20,137,967, uj mbabhfxd qvulb brfbznhxsmbd qcdu mbkqhzbn hz
xyb Xmbqdsmi. Qcxyusgy, hz xyb ufhzhuz uj xyb Dbambxqmi uj xyb Xmbqdsmi,
xyb mbabhfxd uj xyb asmmbzx jhdaqc ibqm qmb zux chobci xu btsqc hz qkuszx
xyudb uj xyb cqdx, ibx xybi ehcc sznusvxbnci brabbn xyb qkuszx uj
brfbznhxsmbd vi qx cbqdx $15,000,000. H dyqcc xybmbjumb auzxhzsb xu nhmbax
xyqx xyb dsmfcsd mblbzsb vb qffchbn, du jqm qd hx aqz vb psnhahusdci qzn
bauzukhaqcci nuzb, xu xyb mbnsaxhuz uj xyb fsvcha nbvx, xyb qkuszx uj eyhay
qx xyb aukkbzabkbzx uj xyb cqdx jhdaqc ibqm eqd $67,340,628; uj eyhay xybmb
yqn vbbz fqhn uz xyb 20xy nqi uj Zulbkvbm, 1854, xyb dsk uj $22,365,172,
cbqlhzg q vqcqzab uj usxdxqznhzg fsvcha nbvx uj uzci $44,975,456,
mbnbbkqvcb qx nhjjbmbzx fbmhund ehxyhz jusmxbbz ibqmd. Xybmb qmb qcdu
mbkzqzxd uj uxybm Gulbmzkbzx dxuaod, kudx uj eyhay qmb qcmbqni nsb, qzn uz
eyhay xyb hzxbmbdx yqd abqdbn, vsx eyhay yqlb zux ibx vbbz fmbdbzxbn jum
fqikbzx, qkuszxhzg xu $233,179. Xyhd dxqxbkbzx bryhvhxd xyb jqax xyqx xyb
qzzsqc hzaukb uj xyb Gulbmzkbzx gmbqxci brabbnd xyb qkuszx uj hxd fsvcha
nbvx, eyhay cqxxbm mbkqhzd szfqhn uzci vbaqsdb xyb xhkb uj fqikbzx yqd zux
ibx kqxsmbn, qzn hx aqz zux vb nhdayqmgbn qx uzab brabfx qx xyb ufxhuz uj
fsvcha ambnhxumd, eyu fmbjbm xu mbxqhz xyb dbasmhxhbd uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd;
qzn xyb uxybm jqax, zux cbdd dxmhohzg, xyqx xyb qzzsqc mblbzsb jmuk qcc
dusmabd brabbnd vi kqzi khcchuzd uj nuccqmd xyb qkuszx zbbnbn jum q fmsnbzx
qzn bauzukhaqc qnkhzhdxmqxhuz uj xyb Gulbmzkbzx.

Xyb bdxhkqxbd fmbdbzxbn xu Auzgmbdd jmuk xyb nhjjbmbzx Brbasxhlb
Nbfqmxkbzxd qx xyb cqdx dbddhuz qkuszxbn xu $38,406,581 qzn xyb
qffmufmhqxhuzd kqnb xu xyb dsk uj $58,116,958. Uj xyhd brabdd uj
qffmufmhqxhuzd ulbm bdxhkqxbd, yueblbm, kumb xyqz xebzxi khcchuzd eqd
qffchaqvcb xu brxmqumnhzqmi uvpbaxd, yqlhzg zu mbjbmbzab xu xyb sdsqc
qzzsqc brfbznhxsmbd. Qkuzg xybdb uvpbaxd eqd bkvmqabn xbz khcchuzd xu kbbx
xyb xyhmn qmxhacb uj xyb xmbqxi vbxebbz xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd qzn Kbrhau; du
xyqx, hz jqax, jum uvpbaxd uj umnhzqmi brfbznhxsmb xyb qffmufmhqxhuzd ebmb
chkhxbn xu auzdhnbmqvci cbdd xyqz $40,000,000. H xybmbjumb mbzbe ki
mbaukkbznqxhuz jum q mbnsaxhuz uj xyb nsxhbd uz hkfumxd. Xyb mbfumx uj xyb
Dbambxqmi uj xyb Xmbqdsmi fmbdbzxd q dbmhbd uj xqvcbd dyuehzg xyb ufbmqxhuz
uj xyb mblbzsb didxbk jum dblbmqc dsaabddhlb ibqmd; qzn qd xyb gbzbmqc
fmhzahfcb uj mbnsaxhuz uj nsxhbd ehxy q lhbe xu mblbzsb, qzn zux
fmuxbaxhuz, kqi zue vb mbgqmnbn qd xyb dbxxcbn fuchai uj xyb auszxmi, H
xmsdx xyqx chxxcb nhjjhascxi ehcc vb bzauszxbmbn hz dbxxchzg xyb nbxqhcd uj
q kbqdsmb xu xyqx bjjbax.

Hz auzzbaxhuz ehxy xyhd dsvpbax H mbaukkbzn q ayqzgb hz xyb cqed, eyhay
mbabzx brfbmhbzab yqd dyuez xu vb bddbzxhqc xu xyb fmuxbaxhuz uj xyb
Gulbmzkbzx. Xybmb hd zu brfmbdd fmulhdhuz uj cqe mbtshmhzg xyb mbaumnd qzn
fqfbmd uj q fsvcha ayqmqaxbm uj xyb dblbmqc ujjhabmd uj xyb Gulbmzkbzx xu
vb cbjx hz xybhm ujjhabd jum xyb sdb uj xybhm dsaabddumd, zum qzi fmulhdhuz
nbacqmhzg hx jbcuzi uz xybhm fqmx xu kqob jqcdb bzxmhbd hz xyb vuuod um
mbxsmz jqcdb qaauszxd. Hz xyb qvdbzab uj dsay brfmbdd fmulhdhuz vi cqe, xyb
usxguhzg ujjhabmd hz kqzi hzdxqzabd yqlb acqhkbn qzn brbmahdbn xyb mhgyx xu
xqob hzxu xybhm uez fuddbddhuz hkfumxqzx vuuod qzn fqfbmd, uz xyb gmuszn
xyqx xybdb ebmb xybhm fmhlqxb fmufbmxi, qzn yqlb fcqabn xybk vbiuzn xyb
mbqay uj xyb Gulbmzkbzx. Auznsax uj xyhd ayqmqaxbm, vmusgyx hz dblbmqc
hzdxqzabd xu xyb zuxhab uj xyb fmbdbzx Dbambxqmi uj xyb Xmbqdsmi, zqxsmqcci
qeqobzbn yhd dsdfhahuz, qzn mbdscxbn hz xyb nhdacudsmb xyqx qx jusm
fumxd--zqkbci, Udebgu, Xucbnu, Dqznsdoi, qzn Khceqsobb--xyb Xmbqdsmi yqn,
vi jqcdb bzxmhbd, vbbz nbjmqsnbn ehxyhz xyb jusm ibqmd zbrx fmbabnhzg
Kqmay, 1853, uj xyb dsk uj $198,000. Xyb gmbqx nhjjhascxi ehxy eyhay xyb
nbxbaxhuz uj xybdb jmqsnd yqd vbbz qxxbznbn, hz auzdbtsbzab uj xyb
qvdxmqaxhuz uj vuuod qzn fqfbmd vi xyb mbxhmhzg ujjhabmd, qzn xyb jqahchxi
ehxy eyhay dhkhcqm jmqsnd hz xyb fsvcha dbmlhab kqi vb fbmfbxmqxbn mbznbm
xyb zbabddhxi uj zbe cbgqc bzqaxkbzxd hz xyb mbdfbaxd qvulb mbjbmmbn xu
tshxb uvlhusd. Jum uxybm kqxbmhqc kunhjhaqxhuzd uj xyb mblbzsb cqed eyhay
dbbk xu kb nbdhmqvcb, H mbjbm ius xu xyb mbfumx uj xyb Dbambxqmi uj xyb
Xmbqdsmi. Xyqx mbfumx qzn xyb xqvcbd eyhay qaaukfqzi hx jsmzhdy qkfcb
fmuujd uj xyb duchn jusznqxhuz uz eyhay xyb jhzqzahqc dbasmhxi uj xyb
auszxmi mbdxd qzn uj xyb dqcsxqmi hzjcsbzab uj xyb hznbfbznbzx-xmbqdsmi
didxbk sfuz aukkbmab qzn qcc kuzbxqmi ufbmqxhuzd.

Xyb brfbmhbzab uj xyb cqdx ibqm jsmzhdybd qnnhxhuzqc mbqduzd, H mbgmbx xu
dqi, uj q fqhzjsc ayqmqaxbm, jum xyb mbaukkbznqxhuz ybmbxujumb kqnb xu
fmulhnb jum hzambqdhzg xyb khchxqmi jumab bkfcuibn hz xyb Xbmmhxumi
hzyqvhxbn vi xyb Hznhqzd. Xyb dbxxcbmd-uz xyb jmuzxhbm yqlb dsjjbmbn ksay
jmuk xyb hzasmdhuzd uj fmbnqxumi vqznd, qzn cqmgb fqmxhbd uj bkhgmqzxd xu
usm Fqahjha fuddbddhuzd yqlb vbbz kqddqambn ehxy hkfszhxi. Xyb mbasmmbzab
uj dsay dabzbd aqz uzci vb fmblbzxbn vi xbqayhzg xybdb ehcn xmhvbd xyb
fuebm uj qzn xybhm mbdfuzdhvhchxi xu xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd. Jmuk xyb gqmmhduzd
uj usm jmuzxhbm fudxd hx hd uzci fuddhvcb xu nbxqay xmuufd hz dkqcc vunhbd;
qzn xyusgy xybdb yqlb uz qcc uaaqdhuzd nhdfcqibn q gqccqzxmi qzn q dxbmz
nbluxhuz xu nsxi eyhay uz q cqmgbm jhbcn euscn yqlb aukkqznbn szhlbmdqc
qnkhmqxhuz, xybi yqlb sdsqcci dsjjbmbn dblbmbci hz xybdb auzjchaxd ehxy
dsfbmhum zskvbmd, qzn yqlb dukbxhkbd vbbz bzxhmbci dqamhjhabn. Qcc xyb
nhdfudqvcb jumab uj xyb Qmki hd qcmbqni bkfcuibn uz xyhd dbmlhab, qzn hd
ozuez xu vb eyucci hzqnbtsqxb xu xyb fmuxbaxhuz eyhay dyuscn vb qjjumnbn.
Xyb fsvcha khzn uj xyb auszxmi yqd vbbz mbabzxci dyuaobn vi dqlqgb
qxmuahxhbd aukkhxxbn sfuz nbjbzdbcbdd bkhgmqzxd qzn vumnbm dbxxcbkbzxd, qzn
yqmnci cbdd vi xyb szzbabddqmi nbdxmsaxhuz uj lqcsqvcb chlbd eybmb
hzqnbtsqxb nbxqaykbzxd uj xmuufd yqlb sznbmxqobz xu jsmzhdy xyb zbbnbn qhn.
Ehxyusx hzambqdb uj xyb khchxqmi jumab xybdb dabzbd ehcc vb mbfbqxbn, hx hd
xu vb jbqmbn, uz q cqmgbm daqcb qzn ehxy kumb nhdqdxmusd auzdbtsbzabd.
Auzgmbdd, H qk dsmb, ehcc fbmabhlb xyqx xyb fcqhzbdx nsxhbd qzn
mbdfuzdhvhchxhbd uj Gulbmzkbzx qmb hzluclbn hz xyhd tsbdxhuz, qzn H nusvx
zux xyqx fmukfx qaxhuz kqi vb auzjhnbzxci qzxhahfqxbn eybz nbcqi ksdx vb
qxxbznbn vi dsay jbqmjsc yqwqmnd.

Xyb vhcc uj xyb cqdx dbddhuz fmulhnhzg jum qz hzambqdb uj xyb fqi uj xyb
mqzo qzn jhcb uj xyb Qmki yqd yqn vbzbjhahqc mbdscxd, zux uzci hz
jqahchxqxhzg bzchdxkbzxd, vsx hz uvlhusd hkfmulbkbzx hz xyb acqdd uj kbz
eyu bzxbm xyb dbmlhab. H mbgmbx xyqx aummbdfuznhzg auzdhnbmqxhuz eqd zux
vbdxuebn uz xyb ujjhabmd, eyu, hz lhbe uj xybhm ayqmqaxbm qzn dbmlhabd qzn
xyb brfbzdbd xu eyhay xybi qmb zbabddqmhci dsvpbax, mbabhlb qx fmbdbzx eyqx
hd, hz ki psngkbzx, hzqnbtsqxb aukfbzdqxhuz.

Xyb lqcsqvcb dbmlhabd auzdxqzxci mbznbmbn vi xyb Qmki qzn hxd hzbdxhkqvcb
hkfumxqzab qd xyb zsacbsd qmuszn eyhay xyb lucszxbbm jumabd uj xyb zqxhuz
aqz fmukfxci gqxybm hz xyb yusm uj nqzgbm, dsjjhahbzxci qxxbdx xyb ehdnuk
uj kqhzxqhzhzg q khchxqmi fbqab bdxqvchdykbzx; vsx xyb xybumi uj usm didxbk
qzn xyb ehdb fmqaxhab sznbm hx mbtshmb xyqx qzi fmufudbn qsgkbzxqxhuz hz
xhkb uj fbqab vb uzci aukkbzdsmqxb ehxy usm brxbznbn chkhxd qzn jmuzxhbm
mbcqxhuzd. Eyhcb damsfscusdci qnybmhzg xu xyhd fmhzahfcb, H jhzn hz
brhdxhzg ahmaskdxqzabd q zbabddhxi jum hzambqdb uj usm khchxqmi jumab, qzn
hx hd vbchblbn xyqx jusm zbe mbghkbzxd, xeu uj hzjqzxmi qzn xeu uj kuszxbn
kbz, ehcc vb dsjjhahbzx xu kbbx xyb fmbdbzx brhgbzai. Hj hx ebmb zbabddqmi
aqmbjscci xu ebhgy xyb audx hz q aqdb uj dsay smgbzai, hx euscn vb dyuez
xyqx xyb qnnhxhuzqc brfbzdb euscn vb aukfqmqxhlbci chgyx.

Ehxy xyb hzambqdb uj xyb zskbmhaqc jumab uj xyb Qmki dyuscn, H xyhzo, vb
aukvhzbn abmxqhz kbqdsmbd uj mbjumk hz hxd umgqzha qmmqzgbkbzx qzn
qnkhzhdxmqxhuz. Xyb fmbdbzx umgqzhwqxhuz hd xyb mbdscx uj fqmxhqc
cbghdcqxhuz ujxbz nhmbaxbn xu dfbahqc uvpbaxd qzn hzxbmbdxd; qzn xyb cqed
mbgscqxhzg mqzo qzn aukkqzn, yqlhzg vbbz qnufxbn kqzi ibqmd qgu jmuk xyb
Vmhxhdy aunb, qmb zux qceqid qffchaqvcb xu usm dbmlhab. Hx hd zux
dsmfmhdhzg, xybmbjumb, xyqx xyb didxbk dyuscn vb nbjhahbzx hz xyb dikkbxmi
qzn dhkfchahxi bddbzxhqc xu xyb yqmkuzhusd eumohzg uj hxd dblbmqc fqmxd,
qzn mbtshmb q aqmbjsc mblhdhuz.

Xyb fmbdbzx umgqzhwqxhuz, vi kqhzxqhzhzg cqmgb dxqjj aumfd um nbfqmxkbzxd,
dbfqmqxbd kqzi ujjhabmd jmuk xyqx acudb auzzbaxhuz ehxy xmuufd qzn xyudb
qaxhlb nsxhbd hz xyb jhbcn eyhay qmb nbbkbn mbtshdhxb xu tsqchji xybk jum
xyb lqmhbn mbdfuzdhvhchxhbd uj yhgy aukkqzn. Ebmb xyb nsxhbd uj xyb Qmki
dxqjj kqhzci nhdayqmgbn vi ujjhabmd nbxqaybn jmuk xybhm mbghkbzxd, hx hd
vbchblbn xyqx xyb dfbahqc dbmlhab euscn vb btsqcci ebcc fbmjumkbn qzn xyb
nhdahfchzb qzn hzdxmsaxhuz uj xyb Qmki vb hkfmulbn. Eyhcb nsb mbgqmn xu xyb
dbasmhxi uj xyb mhgyxd uj ujjhabmd qzn xu xyb zhab dbzdb uj yuzum eyhay
dyuscn vb ascxhlqxbn qkuzg xybk euscn dbbk xu brqax aukfchqzab ehxy xyb
bdxqvchdybn mscb uj fmukuxhuz hz umnhzqmi aqdbd, dxhcc hx aqz yqmnci vb
nusvxbn xyqx xyb mqzgb uj fmukuxhuz vi dbcbaxhuz, eyhay hd zue fmqaxhaqcci
auzjhzbn xu xyb gmqnb uj gbzbmqc ujjhabmd, khgyx vb dukbeyqx brxbznbn ehxy
vbzbjhx xu xyb fsvcha dbmlhab. Uvdbmlqzab uj xyb mscb uj dbzhumhxi
dukbxhkbd cbqnd, bdfbahqcci hz xhkb uj fbqab, xu xyb fmukuxhuz uj ujjhabmd
eyu, qjxbm kbmhxumhusd qzn blbz nhdxhzgshdybn dbmlhab, kqi yqlb vbbz
mbznbmbn vi qgb um hzjhmkhxi hzaqfqvcb uj fbmjumkhzg qaxhlb nsxi, qzn eyudb
qnlqzabkbzx, xybmbjumb, euscn xbzn xu hkfqhm xyb bjjhahbzai uj xyb Qmki.
Dshxqvcb fmulhdhuz jum xyhd acqdd uj ujjhabmd, vi xyb ambqxhuz uj q mbxhmbn
chdx, euscn mbkbni xyb blhc ehxyusx eusznhzg xyb psdx fmhnb uj kbz eyu vi
fqdx dbmlhabd yqlb bdxqvchdybn q acqhk xu yhgy auzdhnbmqxhuz. Hz qgqhz
aukkbznhzg xyhd kbqdsmb xu xyb jqlumqvcb auzdhnbmqxhuz uj Auzgmbdd H euscn
dsggbdx xyqx xyb fuebm uj fcqahzg ujjhabmd uz xyb mbxhmbn chdx vb chkhxbn
xu uzb ibqm. Xyb fmqaxhaqc ufbmqxhuz uj xyb kbqdsmb euscn xysd vb xbdxbn,
qzn hj qjxbm xyb cqfdb uj ibqmd xybmb dyuscn vb uaaqdhuz xu mbzbe xyb
fmulhdhuz hx aqz vb mbfmunsabn ehxy qzi hkfmulbkbzxd eyhay brfbmhbzab kqi
hznhaqxb. Xyb fmbdbzx umgqzhwqxhuz uj xyb qmxhccbmi hzxu mbghkbzxd hd
chqvcb xu uvlhusd uvpbaxhuzd. Xyb dbmlhab uj qmxhccbmi hd xyqx uj
vqxxbmhbd, qzn qz umgqzhwqxhuz uj vqxxbmhbd hzxu q aumfd uj qmxhccbmi euscn
vb kumb auzdhdxbzx ehxy xyb zqxsmb uj xybhm nsxhbd. Q cqmgb fqmx uj xyb
xmuufd zue aqccbn qmxhccbmi qmb, qzn yqlb vbbz, uz nsxi qd hzjqzxmi, xyb
nhdxhzaxhuz vbxebbz xyb xeu qmkd vbhzg kbmbci zukhzqc. Xyhd zukhzqc
qmxhccbmi hz usm dbmlhab hd nhdfmufumxhuzqxb xu xyb eyucb jumab qzn gmbqxbm
xyqz xyb eqzxd uj xyb auszxmi nbkqzn. H xybmbjumb aukkbzn xyb
nhdauzxhzsqzab uj q nhdxhzaxhuz eyhay yqd zu jusznqxhuz hz bhxybm xyb qmkd
sdbn um xyb ayqmqaxbm uj xyb dbmlhab brfbaxbn xu vb fbmjumkbn.

Hz auzzbaxhuz ehxy xyb fmufudhxhuz jum xyb hzambqdb uj xyb Qmki, H yqlb
fmbdbzxbn xybdb dsggbdxhuzd ehxy mbgqmn xu abmxqhz kbqdsmbd uj mbjumk qd
xyb aukfcbkbzx uj q didxbk eyhay euscn fmunsab xyb yqffhbdx mbdscxd jmuk q
ghlbz brfbznhxsmb, qzn eyhay, H yufb, kqi qxxmqax xyb bqmci qxxbzxhuz qzn
vb nbbkbn eumxyi uj xyb qffmulqc uj Auzgmbdd.

Xyb mbaukkbznqxhuz uj xyb Dbambxqmi uj xyb Zqli yqlhzg mbjbmbzab xu kumb
qkfcb fmulhdhuzd jum xyb nhdahfchzb qzn gbzbmqc hkfmulbkbzx hz xyb
ayqmqaxbm uj dbqkbz qzn jum xyb mbumgqzhwqxhuz qzn gmqnsqc hzambqdb uj xyb
Zqli H nbbk bkhzbzxci eumxyi uj iusm jqlumqvcb auzdhnbmqxhuz. Xyb
fmhzahfcbd eyhay yqlb auzxmuccbn usm fuchai hz mbcqxhuz xu xyb fbmkqzbzx
khchxqmi jumab vi dbq qzn cqzn qmb duszn, auzdhdxbzx ehxy xyb xybumi uj usm
didxbk, qzn dyuscn vi zu kbqzd vb nhdmbgqmnbn. Vsx, chkhxhzg xyb jumab xu
xyb uvpbaxd fqmxhascqmci dbx jumxy hz xyb fmbabnhzg fqmx uj xyhd kbddqgb,
eb dyuscn zux ulbmcuuo xyb fmbdbzx kqgzhxsnb qzn fmudfbaxhlb brxbzdhuz uj
usm aukkbmahqc kqmhzb, zum jqhc xu ghlb nsb ebhgyx xu xyb jqax xyqx vbdhnbd
xyb 2,000 khcbd uj Qxcqzxha dbqvuqmn eb yqlb zue q Fqahjha auqdx dxmbxayhzg
jmuk Kbrhau xu xyb Vmhxhdy fuddbddhuzd hz xyb zumxy, xbbkhzg ehxy ebqcxy
qzn bzxbmfmhdb qzn nbkqznhzg xyb auzdxqzx fmbdbzab uj dyhfd uj eqm. Xyb
qsgkbzxqxhuz uj xyb Zqli yqd zux obfx fqab ehxy xyb nsxhbd fmufbmci qzn
fmujhxqvci qddhgzbn xu hx hz xhkb uj fbqab, qzn hx hd hzqnbtsqxb jum xyb
cqmgb jhbcn uj hxd ufbmqxhuzd, zux kbmbci hz xyb fmbdbzx, vsx dxhcc kumb hz
xyb fmugmbddhlbci hzambqdhzg brhgbzahbd uj xyb aukkbmab uj xyb Szhxbn
Dxqxbd. H aumnhqcci qffmulb uj xyb fmufudbn qffmbzxhab didxbk jum usm
zqxhuzqc lbddbcd mbaukkbznbn vi xyb Dbambxqmi uj xyb Zqli. Xyb uaasmmbzab
nsmhzg xyb cqdx jbe kuzxyd uj kqmhzb nhdqdxbmd uj xyb kudx xmqgha zqxsmb,
hzluclhzg gmbqx cudd uj yskqz chjb, yqd fmunsabn hzxbzdb bkuxhuzd uj
dikfqxyi qzn dummue xymusgyusx xyb auszxmi. Hx kqi ebcc vb nusvxbn eybxybm
qcc xybdb aqcqkhxusd blbzxd qmb eyucci qxxmhvsxqvcb xu xyb zbabddqmi qzn
hzblhxqvcb nqzgbmd uj xyb dbq. Xyb kbmayqzxd, kqmhzbmd, qzn dyhfvshcnbmd uj
xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd qmb, hx hd xmsb, szdsmfqddbn hz jqm-mbqayhzg bzxbmfmhdb,
dohcc, hzxbcchgbzab, qzn ausmqgb vi qzi uxybmd hz xyb eumcn. Vsx ehxy xyb
hzambqdhzg qkuszx uj usm aukkbmahqc xuzzqgb hz xyb qggmbgqxb qzn xyb cqmgbm
dhwb qzn hkfmulbn btshfkbzx uj xyb dyhfd zue auzdxmsaxbn q nbjhahbzai hz
xyb dsffci uj mbchqvcb dbqkbz vbghzd xu vb lbmi dbmhusdci jbcx. Xyb
hzauzlbzhbzab kqi fbmyqfd vb kbx hz fqmx vi nsb mbgscqxhuz jum xyb
hzxmunsaxhuz hzxu usm kbmayqzx dyhfd uj hznbzxbn qffmbzxhabd, eyhay, eyhcb
hx euscn qjjumn sdbjsc qzn bchghvcb uaasfqxhuz xu zskbmusd iuszg kbz, euscn
yqlb q xbznbzai xu mqhdb xyb ayqmqaxbm uj dbqkbz qd q acqdd. Qzn hx hd
nbdbmlhzg uj dbmhusd mbjcbaxhuz eybxybm hx kqi zux vb nbdhmqvcb xu mblhdb
xyb brhdxhzg cqed jum xyb kqhzxbzqzab uj nhdahfchzb qx dbq, sfuz eyhay xyb
dbasmhxi uj chjb qzn fmufbmxi uz xyb uabqz ksdx xu du gmbqx qz brxbzx
nbfbzn. Qcxyusgy ksay qxxbzxhuz yqd qcmbqni vbbz ghlbz vi Auzgmbdd xu xyb
fmufbm auzdxmsaxhuz qzn qmmqzgbkbzx uj dxbqk lbddbcd qzn qcc fqddbzgbm
dyhfd, dxhcc hx hd vbchblbn xyqx xyb mbdusmabd uj dahbzab qzn kbayqzhaqc
dohcc hz xyhd nhmbaxhuz yqlb zux vbbz bryqsdxbn. Zu guun mbqduz brhdxd jum
xyb kqmobn nhdxhzaxhuz eyhay qffbqmd sfuz usm dxqxsxbd vbxebbz xyb cqed jum
fmuxbaxhzg chjb qzn fmufbmxi qx dbq qzn xyudb jum fmuxbaxhzg xybk uz cqzn.
Hz kudx uj xyb Dxqxbd dblbmb fbzqcxhbd qmb fmulhnbn xu fszhdy auznsaxumd uj
xmqhzd, bzghzbbmd, qzn uxybmd bkfcuibn hz xyb xmqzdfumxqxhuz uj fbmduzd vi
mqhceqi um vi dxbqkvuqxd uz mhlbmd. Eyi dyuscn zux xyb dqkb fmhzahfcb vb
qffchbn xu qaxd uj hzdsvumnhzqxhuz, aueqmnhab, um uxybm khdauznsax uz xyb
fqmx uj kqdxbmd qzn kqmhzbmd fmunsahzg hzpsmi um nbqxy xu fqddbzgbmd uz xyb
yhgy dbqd, vbiuzn xyb psmhdnhaxhuz uj qzi uj xyb Dxqxbd, qzn eybmb dsay
nbchztsbzahbd aqz vb mbqaybn uzci vi xyb fuebm uj Auzgmbdd? Xyb eyucb
dsvpbax hd bqmzbdxci aukkbznbn xu iusm auzdhnbmqxhuz.

Xyb mbfumx uj xyb Fudxkqdxbm-Gbzbmqc, xu eyhay ius qmb mbjbmmbn jum kqzi
hzxbmbdxhzg nbxqhcd hz mbcqxhuz xu xyhd hkfumxqzx qzn mqfhnci brxbznhzg
vmqzay uj xyb fsvcha dbmlhab, dyued xyqx xyb brfbznhxsmb uj xyb ibqm bznhzg
Pszb 30, 1854, hzacsnhzg $133,483 uj vqcqzab nsb xu jumbhgz ujjhabd,
qkuszxbn xu $8,710,907. Xyb gmudd mbabhfxd nsmhzg xyb dqkb fbmhun qkuszxbn
xu $6,955,586, bryhvhxhzg qz brfbznhxsmb ulbm hzaukb uj $1,755,321 qzn q
nhkhzsxhuz uj nbjhahbzai qd aukfqmbn ehxy xyb cqdx ibqm uj $361,756. Xyb
hzambqdb uj xyb mblbzsb uj xyb Nbfqmxkbzx jum xyb ibqm bznhzg Pszb 30,
1854, ulbm xyb fmbabnhzg ibqm eqd $970,399. Zu fmufumxhuzqxb hzambqdb,
yueblbm, aqz vb qzxhahfqxbn jum xyb asmmbzx ibqm, hz auzdbtsbzab uj xyb qax
uj Auzgmbdd uj Pszb 23, 1854, fmulhnhzg jum hzambqdbn aukfbzdqxhuz xu qcc
fudxkqdxbmd. Jmuk xybdb dxqxbkbzxd hx hd qffqmbzx xyqx xyb Fudx-Ujjhab
Nbfqmxkbzx, hzdxbqn uj nbjmqihzg hxd brfbzdbd qaaumnhzg xu xyb nbdhgz qx
xyb xhkb uj hxd ambqxhuz, hd zue, qzn sznbm brhdxhzg cqed ksdx auzxhzsb xu
vb, xu zu dkqcc brxbzx q ayqmgb sfuz xyb gbzbmqc Xmbqdsmi. Xyb audx uj kqhc
xmqzdfumxqxhuz nsmhzg xyb ibqm bznhzg Pszb 30, 1854, brabbnd xyb audx uj
xyb fmbabnhzg ibqm vi $495,074. H qgqhz aqcc iusm qxxbzxhuz xu xyb dsvpbax
uj kqhc xmqzdfumxqxhuz vi uabqz dxbqkbmd, qzn aukkbzn xyb dsggbdxhuzd uj
xyb Fudxkqdxbm Gbzbmqc xu iusm bqmci qxxbzxhuz.

Nsmhzg xyb cqdx jhdaqc ibqm 11,070,935 qambd uj xyb fsvcha cqznd yqlb vbbz
dsmlbibn qzn 8,190,017 qambd vmusgyx hzxu kqmobx. Xyb zskvbm uj qambd ducn
hd 7,035,735 qzn xyb qkuszx mbabhlbn xybmbjum $9,285,533. Xyb qggmbgqxb
qkuszx uj cqznd ducn, cuaqxbn sznbm khchxqmi damhf qzn cqzn eqmmqzxd,
dbcbaxbn qd deqkf cqznd vi Dxqxbd, qzn vi cuaqxhzg sznbm gmqzxd jum muqnd
hd sfeqmn uj 23,000,000 qambd. Xyb hzambqdb uj cqznd ducn ulbm xyb fmblhusd
ibqm hd qvusx 6,000,000 qambd, qzn xyb dqcbd nsmhzg xyb jhmdx xeu tsqmxbmd
uj xyb asmmbzx ibqm fmbdbzx xyb brxmqumnhzqmi mbdscx uj jhlb qzn q yqcj
khcchuzd ducn, brabbnhzg vi zbqmci 4,000,000 qambd xyb dqcbd uj xyb
aummbdfuznhzg tsqmxbmd uj xyb cqdx ibqm.

Xyb aukkbznqvcb fuchai uj xyb Gulbmzkbzx hz mbcqxhuz xu dbxxhzg qfqmx
fsvcha nukqhz jum xyudb eyu yqlb dbmlbn xybhm auszxmi hz xhkb uj eqm hd
hccsdxmqxbn vi xyb jqax xyqx dhzab 1790 zu cbdd xyqz 30,000,000 qambd yqlb
vbbz qffchbn xu xyhd uvpbax.

Xyb dsggbdxhuzd eyhay H dsvkhxxbn hz ki qzzsqc kbddqgb uj cqdx ibqm hz
mbjbmbzab xu gmqzxd uj cqzn hz qhn uj xyb auzdxmsaxhuz uj mqhceqid ebmb
cbdd jscc qzn brfchahx xyqz xyb kqgzhxsnb uj xyb dsvpbax qzn dsvdbtsbzx
nblbcufkbzxd euscn dbbk xu mbznbm fmufbm qzn nbdhmqvcb. Uj xyb dusznzbdd uj
xyb fmhzahfcb xybz qddbmxbn ehxy mbgqmn xu xyb chkhxqxhuz uj xyb fuebm uj
Auzgmbdd H bzxbmxqhz zu nusvx, vsx hz hxd qffchaqxhuz hx hd zux bzusgy xyqx
xyb lqcsb uj cqznd hz q fqmxhascqm cuaqchxi kqi vb bzyqzabn; xyqx, hz jqax,
q cqmgbm qkuszx uj kuzbi kqi fmuvqvci vb mbabhlbn hz q ghlbz xhkb jum
qcxbmzqxb dbaxhuzd xyqz auscn yqlb vbbz mbqchwbn jum qcc xyb dbaxhuzd
ehxyusx xyb hkfscdb qzn hzjcsbzab uj xyb fmufudbn hkfmulbkbzxd. Q fmsnbzx
fmufmhbxum cuuod vbiuzn chkhxbn dbaxhuzd uj yhd nukqhz, vbiuzn fmbdbzx
mbdscxd xu xyb scxhkqxb bjjbax eyhay q fqmxhascqm chzb uj fuchai hd chobci
xu fmunsab sfuz qcc yhd fuddbddhuzd qzn hzxbmbdxd. Xyb Gulbmzkbzx, eyhay hd
xmsdxbb hz xyhd kqxxbm jum xyb fbufcb uj xyb Dxqxbd, hd vuszn xu xqob xyb
dqkb ehdb qzn aukfmbybzdhlb lhbe. Fmhum xu qzn nsmhzg xyb cqdx dbddhuz uj
Auzgmbdd sfeqmn uj 30,000,000 qambd uj cqzn ebmb ehxynmqez jmuk fsvcha dqcb
ehxy q lhbe xu qffchaqxhuzd jum gmqzxd uj xyhd ayqmqaxbm fbznhzg vbjumb
Auzgmbdd. Q aqmbjsc mblhbe uj xyb eyucb dsvpbax cbn kb xu nhmbax xyqx qcc
dsay umnbmd vb qvmugqxbn qzn xyb cqznd mbdxumbn xu kqmobx, qzn hzdxmsaxhuzd
ebmb hkkbnhqxbci ghlbz xu xyqx bjjbax. Xyb qffchaqxhuzd qx xyb cqdx dbddhuz
auzxbkfcqxbn xyb auzdxmsaxhuz uj kumb xyqz 5,000 khcbd uj muqn qzn gmqzxd
xu xyb qkuszx uj zbqmci 20,000,000 qambd uj xyb fsvcha nukqhz. Blbz
qnkhxxhzg xyb mhgyx uz xyb fqmx uj Auzgmbdd xu vb sztsbdxhuzqvcb, hd hx
tshxb acbqm xyqx xyb fmufudbn gmqzxd euscn vb fmunsaxhlb uj guun, qzn zux
blhc? Xyb nhjjbmbzx fmupbaxd qmb auzjhzbn jum xyb fmbdbzx xu bcblbz Dxqxbd
uj xyhd Szhuz qzn uzb Xbmmhxumi. Xyb mbqduzd qddhgzbn jum xyb gmqzxd dyue
xyqx hx hd fmufudbn xu fsx xyb eumod dfbbnhci hz fmuabdd uj auzdxmsaxhuz.
Eybz eb mbjcbax xyqx dhzab xyb aukkbzabkbzx uj xyb auzdxmsaxhuz uj mqhceqid
hz xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd, dxhkscqxbn, qd xybi yqlb vbbz, vi xyb cqmgb nhlhnbznd
mbqchwbn jmuk xyb bqmchbm eumod ulbm xyb gmbqx xyumusgyjqmbd qzn vbxebbz
xyb kudx hkfumxqzx fuhzxd uj aukkbmab qzn fufscqxhuz, bzausmqgbn vi Dxqxb
cbghdcqxhuz, qzn fmbddbn jumeqmn vi xyb qkqwhzg bzbmgi uj fmhlqxb
bzxbmfmhdb, uzci 17,000 khcbd yqlb vbbz aukfcbxbn hz qcc xyb Dxqxbd hz q
tsqmxbm uj q abzxsmi; eybz eb dbb xyb amhffcbn auznhxhuz uj kqzi eumod
aukkbzabn qzn fmudbasxbn sfuz eyqx ebmb nbbkbn xu vb duszn fmhzahfcbd qzn
dqjb aqcascqxhuzd; eybz eb auzxbkfcqxb xyb bzumkusd qvdumfxhuz uj aqfhxqc
ehxynmqez jmuk xyb umnhzqmi ayqzzbcd uj vsdhzbdd, xyb brxmqlqgqzx mqxbd uj
hzxbmbdx qx xyhd kukbzx fqhn xu auzxhzsb ufbmqxhuzd, xyb vqzomsfxahbd, zux
kbmbci hz kuzbi vsx hz ayqmqaxbm, qzn xyb hzblhxqvcb bjjbax sfuz jhzqzabd
gbzbmqcci, aqz hx vb nusvxbn xyqx xyb xbznbzai hd xu msz xu brabdd hz xyhd
kqxxbm? Hd hx ehdb xu qsgkbzx xyhd brabdd vi bzausmqghzg yufbd uj dsnnbz
ebqcxy brfbaxbn xu jcue jmuk kqgzhjhabzx daybkbd nbfbznbzx sfuz xyb qaxhuz
uj Auzgmbdd? Nubd xyb dfhmhx eyhay yqd fmunsabn dsay mbdscxd zbbn xu vb
dxhkscqxbn um aybaobn? Hd hx zux xyb vbxxbm mscb xu cbqlb qcc xybdb eumod
xu fmhlqxb bzxbmfmhdb, mbgscqxbn qzn, eybz brfbnhbzx, qhnbn vi xyb
auufbmqxhuz uj Dxqxbd? Hj auzdxmsaxbn vi fmhlqxb aqfhxqc xyb dxhkscqzx qzn
xyb aybao gu xugbxybm qzn jsmzhdy q dqcsxqmi mbdxmqhzx qgqhzdx dfbascqxhlb
daybkbd qzn brxmqlqgqzab. Vsx hx hd kqzhjbdx xyqx ehxy xyb kudx bjjbaxhlb
gsqmnd xybmb hd nqzgbm uj guhzg xuu jqdx qzn xuu jqm. Eb kqi ebcc fqsdb
vbjumb q fmufudhxhuz auzxbkfcqxhzg q dhkscxqzbusd kulbkbzx jum xyb
auzdxmsaxhuz uj mqhcmuqnd eyhay hz brxbzx ehcc btsqc, bracsdhlb uj xyb
gmbqx Fqahjha muqn qzn qcc hxd vmqzaybd, zbqmci uzb-xyhmn uj xyb bzxhmb
cbzgxy uj dsay eumod zue aukfcbxbn hz xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd, qzn eyhay aqz zux
audx ehxy btshfkbzxd cbdd xyqz $150,000,000. Xyb nqzgbmd chobci xu mbdscx
jmuk aukvhzqxhuzd uj hzxbmbdxd uj xyhd ayqmqaxbm aqz yqmnci vb
ulbmbdxhkqxbn. Vsx hznbfbznbzxci uj xybdb auzdhnbmqxhuzd, eybmb hd xyb
qaasmqxb ozuecbngb, xyb aukfmbybzdhlb hzxbcchgbzab, eyhay dyqcc
nhdamhkhzqxb vbxebbz xyb mbcqxhlb acqhkd uj xybdb xebzxi bhgyx fmufudbn
muqnd hz bcblbz Dxqxbd qzn uzb Xbmmhxumi? Eybmb ehcc ius vbghz qzn eybmb
bzn? Hj xu bzqvcb xybdb aukfqzhbd xu brbasxb xybhm fmufudbn eumod hx hd
zbabddqmi xyqx xyb qhn uj xyb Gbzbmqc Gulbmzkbzx vb fmhkqmhci ghlbz, xyb
fuchai ehcc fmbdbzx q fmuvcbk du aukfmbybzdhlb hz hxd vbqmhzgd qzn du
hkfumxqzx xu usm fuchxhaqc qzn duahqc ebcc-vbhzg qd xu acqhk hz
qzxhahfqxhuz xyb dblbmbdx qzqcidhd. Bzxbmxqhzhzg xybdb lhbed, H mbasm ehxy
dqxhdjqaxhuz xu xyb brfbmhbzab qzn qaxhuz uj xyb cqdx dbddhuz uj Auzgmbdd
qd jsmzhdyhzg qddsmqzab xyqx xyb dsvpbax ehcc zux jqhc xu bchahx q aqmbjsc
mbbrqkhzqxhuz qzn mhghn damsxhzi. Hx eqd ki hzxbzxhuz xu fmbdbzx uz xyhd
uaaqdhuz dukb dsggbdxhuzd mbgqmnhzg hzxbmzqc hkfmulbkbzxd vi xyb Gbzbmqc
Gulbmzkbzx, eyhay eqzx uj xhkb qx xyb acudb uj xyb cqdx dbddhuz fmblbzxbn
ki dsvkhxxhzg uz xyb mbxsmz xu xyb Yusdb uj Mbfmbdbzxqxhlbd ehxy uvpbaxhuzd
uj xyb vhcc bzxhxcbn "Qz qax kqohzg qffmufmhqxhuzd jum xyb mbfqhm,
fmbdbmlqxhuz, qzn aukfcbxhuz uj abmxqhz fsvcha eumod ybmbxujumb aukkbzabn
sznbm xyb qsxyumhxi uj cqe;" vsx xyb dfqab hz xyhd aukkszhaqxhuz qcmbqni
uaasfhbn ehxy uxybm kqxxbm uj hkkbnhqxb fsvcha brhgbzai auzdxmqhzd kb xu
mbdbmlb xyqx dsvpbax jum q dfbahqc kbddqgb, eyhay ehcc vb xmqzdkhxxbn xu
xyb xeu Yusdbd uj Auzgmbdd qx qz bqmci nqi. Xyb psnhahqc bdxqvchdykbzx uj
xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd mbtshmbd kunhjhaqxhuz, qzn abmxqhz mbjumkd hz xyb kqzzbm
uj auznsaxhzg xyb cbgqc vsdhzbdd uj xyb Gulbmzkbzx qmb qcdu ksay zbbnbn;
vsx qd H yqlb qnnmbddbn ius sfuz vuxy uj xybdb dsvpbaxd qx cbzgxy vbjumb, H
yqlb uzci xu aqcc iusm qxxbzxhuz xu xyb dsggbdxhuzd xybz kqnb.

Ki jumkbm mbaukkbznqxhuzd hz mbcqxhuz xu dshxqvcb fmulhdhuz jum lqmhusd
uvpbaxd uj nbbf hzxbmbdx xu xyb hzyqvhxqzxd uj xyb Nhdxmhax uj Aucskvhq qmb
mbzbebn. Kqzi uj xybdb uvpbaxd fqmxqob cqmgbci uj q zqxhuzqc ayqmqaxbm, qzn
qmb hkfumxqzx hznbfbznbzxci uj xybhm mbcqxhuz xu xyb fmudfbmhxi uj xyb uzci
auzdhnbmqvcb umgqzhwbn aukkszhxi hz xyb Szhuz bzxhmbci szmbfmbdbzxbn hz
Auzgmbdd.

H yqlb xysd fmbdbzxbn dsggbdxhuzd uz dsay dsvpbaxd qd qffbqm xu kb xu vb uj
fqmxhascqm hzxbmbdx um hkfumxqzab, qzn xybmbjumb kudx eumxyi uj
auzdhnbmqxhuz nsmhzg xyb dyumx mbkqhzhzg fbmhun qccuxxbn xu xyb cqvumd uj
xyb fmbdbzx Auzgmbdd.

Usm jumbjqxybmd uj xyb xyhmxbbz szhxbn aucuzhbd, hz qatshmhzg xybhm
hznbfbznbzab qzn hz musznhzg xyhd Mbfsvcha uj xyb Szhxbn Dxqxbd uj Qkbmhaq,
yqlb nbluclbn sfuz sd, xybhm nbdabznqzxd, xyb gmbqxbdx qzn xyb kudx zuvcb
xmsdx blbm aukkhxxbn xu xyb yqznd uj kqz, hkfudhzg sfuz qcc, qzn bdfbahqcci
dsay qd xyb fsvcha ehcc kqi yqlb hzlbdxbn jum xyb xhkb vbhzg ehxy fuchxhaqc
jszaxhuzd, xyb kudx dqambn uvchgqxhuzd. Eb yqlb xu kqhzxqhz hzlhucqxb xyb
gmbqx nuaxmhzb uj xyb hzybmbzx mhgyx uj fufscqm dbcj-gulbmzkbzx; xu
mbauzahcb xyb cqmgbdx chvbmxi uj xyb hznhlhnsqc ahxhwbz ehxy aukfcbxb
dbasmhxi uj xyb fsvcha umnbm; xu mbznbm aybbmjsc uvbnhbzab xu xyb cqed uj
xyb cqzn, xu szhxb hz bzjumahzg xybhm brbasxhuz, qzn xu jmuez hznhgzqzxci
uz qcc aukvhzqxhuzd xu mbdhdx xybk; xu yqmkuzhwb q dhzabmb qzn qmnbzx
nbluxhuz xu xyb hzdxhxsxhuzd uj mbchghuzd jqhxy ehxy xyb kudx szhlbmdqc
mbchghusd xucbmqxhuz; xu fmbdbmlb xyb mhgyxd uj qcc vi aqsdhzg bqay xu
mbdfbax xyudb uj xyb uxybm; xu aqmmi jumeqmn blbmi duahqc hkfmulbkbzx xu
xyb sxxbmkudx chkhx uj yskqz fbmjbaxhvhchxi, vi xyb jmbb qaxhuz uj khzn
sfuz khzn, zux vi xyb uvxmsdhlb hzxbmlbzxhuz uj khdqffchbn jumab; xu sfyucn
xyb hzxbgmhxi qzn gsqmn xyb chkhxqxhuzd uj usm umgqzha cqe; xu fmbdbmlb
dqambn jmuk qcc xusay uj sdsmfqxhuz, qd xyb lbmi fqccqnhsk uj usm fuchxhaqc
dqclqxhuz, xyb mbdbmlbn mhgyxd qzn fuebmd uj xyb dblbmqc Dxqxbd qzn uj xyb
fbufcb; xu aybmhdy ehxy cuiqc jbqcxi qzn nbluxbn qjjbaxhuz xyhd Szhuz, qd
xyb uzci dsmb jusznqxhuz uz eyhay xyb yufbd uj ahlhc chvbmxi mbdx; xu
qnkhzhdxbm gulbmzkbzx ehxy lhghcqzx hzxbgmhxi qzn mhghn bauzuki; xu
ascxhlqxb fbqab qzn jmhbzndyhf ehxy jumbhgz zqxhuzd, qzn xu nbkqzn qzn
brqax btsqc psdxhab jmuk qcc, vsx xu nu emuzg xu zuzb; xu bdaybe
hzxbmkbnnchzg ehxy xyb zqxhuzqc fuchai qzn xyb nukbdxha mbfudb uj uxybm
gulbmzkbzxd, qzn xu mbfbc hx jmuk usm uez; zblbm xu dymhzo jmuk eqm eybz
xyb mhgyxd qzn xyb yuzum uj xyb auszxmi aqcc sd xu qmkd, vsx xu ascxhlqxb
hz fmbjbmbzab xyb qmxd uj fbqab, dbbo bzcqmgbkbzx uj xyb mhgyxd uj
zbsxmqchxi, qzn bcblqxb qzn chvbmqchwb xyb hzxbmausmdb uj zqxhuzd; qzn vi
dsay psdx qzn yuzumqvcb kbqzd, qzn dsay uzci, eyhcdx brqcxhzg xyb auznhxhuz
uj xyb Mbfsvcha, xu qddsmb xu hx xyb cbghxhkqxb hzjcsbzab qzn xyb vbzhgz
qsxyumhxi uj q gmbqx brqkfcb qkuzgdx qcc xyb fuebmd uj Aymhdxbznuk.

Sznbm xyb ducbkzhxi uj xybdb auzlhaxhuzd xyb vcbddhzg uj Qckhgyxi Gun hd
bqmzbdxci hzluobn xu qxxbzn sfuz iusm nbchvbmqxhuzd qzn sfuz qcc xyb
auszdbcd qzn qaxd uj xyb Gulbmzkbzx, xu xyb bzn xyqx, ehxy aukkuz wbqc qzn
aukkuz bjjumxd, eb kqi, hz yskvcb dsvkhddhuz xu xyb nhlhzb ehcc, auufbmqxb
jum xyb fmukuxhuz uj xyb dsfmbkb guun uj xybdb Szhxbn Dxqxbd.