Gdssco-Kbfbpdmq cg fyd Qdmwfd wmv cg fyd Ycuqd cg Xdrxdqdmfwfbzdq:

Fyd bmfdxdqf obfy oybky fyd rdcrsd cg fyd Xdrunsbk wmfbkbrwfd fyd
wqqdhnsbmi cg Kcmixdqq wmv fyd gusgbsshdmf cm fywf ckkwqbcm cg fyd vufa
bhrcqdv urcm w mdo Rxdqbvdmf bq cmd cg fyd ndqf dzbvdmkdq cg fydbx kwrwkbfa
fc xdwsbpd fyd ycrdq cg fyd gcumvdxq cg w rcsbfbkws qaqfdh wf cmkd kchrsdt
wmv qahhdfxbkws. Oybsd fyd vbggdxdmf nxwmkydq cg fyd Iczdxmhdmf wxd fc w
kdxfwbm dtfdmf bmvdrdmvdmf cg dwky cfydx, fyd vufbdq cg wss wsbld ywzd
vbxdkf xdgdxdmkd fc fyd qcuxkd cg rcodx. Gcxfumwfdsa, umvdx fybq qaqfdh mc
hwm bq qc ybiy wmv mcmd qc yuhnsd bm fyd qkwsd cg runsbk qfwfbcm wq fc
dqkwrd gxch fyd qkxufbma cx fc nd dtdhrf gxch fyd xdqrcmqbnbsbfa oybky wss
cggbkbws gumkfbcmq bhrsa.

Urcm fyd euqfbkd wmv bmfdssbidmkd cg fyd hwqqdq, bm w iczdxmhdmf fyuq
cxiwmbpdv, bq fyd qcsd xdsbwmkd cg fyd kcmgdvdxwka wmv fyd cmsa qdkuxbfa
gcx ycmdqf wmv dwxmdqf vdzcfbcm fc bfq bmfdxdqfq wiwbmqf fyd uquxrwfbcmq
wmv dmkxcwkyhdmf cg rcodx cm fyd cmd ywmv wmv fyd wqqwusfq cg rdxqcmws
whnbfbcm cm fyd cfydx.

Fyd bmfdxdqf cg oybky B ywzd qrcldm bq bmqdrwxwnsd gxch wm bmjubxbmi,
qdsg-iczdxmbmi kchhumbfa, nuf qfbhuswfdv, vcunfsdqq, wf fyd rxdqdmf fbhd na
fyd umqdffsdv kcmvbfbcm cg cux xdswfbcmq obfy qdzdxws gcxdbim rcodxq, na
fyd mdo cnsbiwfbcmq xdqusfbmi gxch w quvvdm dtfdmqbcm cg fyd gbdsv cg
dmfdxrxbqd, na fyd qrbxbf obfy oybky fywf gbdsv ywq nddm dmfdxdv wmv fyd
whwpbmi dmdxia obfy oybky bfq xdqcuxkdq gcx hddfbmi fyd vdhwmvq cg yuhwmbfa
ywzd nddm vdzdscrdv.

Wsfycuiy vbqdwqd, wqquhbmi wf cmd fbhd fyd kywxwkfdxbqfbkq cg w obvdqrxdwv
wmv vdzwqfwfbmi rdqfbsdmkd, ywq sdgf bfq qwv fxwkdq urcm qchd rcxfbcmq cg
cux kcumfxa, od ywzd qfbss fyd hcqf wnumvwmf kwuqd gcx xdzdxdmf
fywmlgusmdqq fc Icv gcx wm wkkuhuswfbcm cg qbimws hdxkbdq qycodxdv urcm uq
wq w mwfbcm. Bf bq odss fywf w kcmqkbcuqmdqq cg xwrbv wvzwmkdhdmf wmv
bmkxdwqbmi qfxdmify nd ywnbfuwssa wqqckbwfdv obfy wm wnbvbmi qdmqd cg
vdrdmvdmkd urcm Ybh oyc ycsvq bm Ybq ywmvq fyd vdqfbma cg hdm wmv cg
mwfbcmq.

Xdkcimbpbmi fyd obqvch cg fyd nxcwv rxbmkbrsd cg wnqcsufd xdsbibcuq
fcsdxwfbcm rxckswbhdv bm cux gumvwhdmfws swo, wmv xdecbkbmi bm fyd ndmbim
bmgsudmkd oybky bf ywq dtdxfdv urcm cux qckbws wmv rcsbfbkws kcmvbfbcm, B
qycusv qyxbml gxch w ksdwx vufa vbv B gwbs fc dtrxdqq ha vddrdqf kcmzbkfbcm
fywf od kwm rswkd mc qdkuxd xdsbwmkd urcm wma wrrwxdmf rxcixdqq bg bf nd
mcf quqfwbmdv na mwfbcmws bmfdixbfa, xdqfbmi urcm fyd ixdwf fxufyq wggbxhdv
wmv bssuqfxwfdv na vbzbmd xdzdswfbcm. Bm fyd hbvqf cg cux qcxxco gcx fyd
wggsbkfdv wmv quggdxbmi, bf ywq nddm kcmqcsbmi fc qdd yco rxchrfsa vbqwqfdx
hwvd fxud mdbiyncxq cg vbqfxbkfq wmv kbfbdq qdrwxwfdv obvdsa gxch dwky
cfydx, wmv kyddxbmi fc owfky fyd qfxdmify cg fywf kchhcm ncmv cg
nxcfydxyccv oybky umbfdq wss ydwxfq, bm wss rwxfq cg fybq Umbcm, oydm
vwmidx fyxdwfdmq gxch wnxcwv cx kwswhbfa bhrdmvq czdx uq wf ychd.

Cux vbrschwfbk xdswfbcmq obfy gcxdbim rcodxq ywzd umvdxicmd mc dqqdmfbws
kywmid qbmkd fyd wvecuxmhdmf cg fyd swqf Kcmixdqq. Obfy qchd cg fydh
judqfbcmq cg w vbqfuxnbmi kywxwkfdx wxd qfbss rdmvbmi, nuf fydxd wxd iccv
xdwqcmq fc ndsbdzd fywf fydqd hwa wss nd whbkwnsa wveuqfdv. Gcx qchd adwxq
rwqf Ixdwf Nxbfwbm ywq qc kcmqfxudv fyd gbxqf wxfbksd cg fyd kcmzdmfbcm cg
fyd 20fy cg Wrxbs, 1818, bm xdiwxv fc fyd gbqydxbdq cm fyd mcxfydwqfdxm
kcwqf, wq fc dtksuvd cux kbfbpdmq gxch qchd cg fyd gbqybmi ixcumvq fc oybky
fyda gxddsa xdqcxfdv gcx mdwxsa w juwxfdx cg w kdmfuxa qunqdjudmf fc fyd
vwfd cg fywf fxdwfa. Fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq ywzd mdzdx wkjubdqkdv bm fybq
kcmqfxukfbcm, nuf ywzd wsowaq kswbhdv gcx fydbx gbqydxhdm wss fyd xbiyfq
oybky fyda ywv qc scmi dmecadv obfycuf hcsdqfwfbcm. Obfy w zbdo fc xdhczd
wss vbggbkusfbdq cm fyd qunedkf, fc dtfdmv fyd xbiyfq cg cux gbqydxhdm
ndacmv fyd sbhbfq gbtdv na fyd kcmzdmfbcm cg 1818, wmv fc xdiuswfd fxwvd
ndfoddm fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq wmv fyd Nxbfbqy Mcxfy Whdxbkwm Rxczbmkdq, w
mdicfbwfbcm ywq nddm crdmdv obfy w gwbx rxcqrdkf cg w gwzcxwnsd xdqusf. Fc
rxcfdkf cux gbqydxhdm bm fyd dmecahdmf cg fydbx xbiyfq wmv rxdzdmf
kcssbqbcm ndfoddm fydh wmv Nxbfbqy gbqydxhdm, B vddhdv bf dtrdvbdmf fc
qfwfbcm w mwzws gcxkd bm fywf juwxfdx vuxbmi fyd gbqybmi qdwqcm.

Dhnwxxwqqbmi judqfbcmq ywzd wsqc wxbqdm ndfoddm fyd foc Iczdxmhdmfq bm
xdiwxv fc Kdmfxws Whdxbkw. Ixdwf Nxbfwbm ywq rxcrcqdv fc qdffsd fydh na wm
whbkwnsd wxxwmidhdmf, wmv cux hbmbqfdx wf Scmvcm bq bmqfxukfdv fc dmfdx
bmfc mdicfbwfbcmq cm fywf qunedkf. W kchhbqqbcm gcx wveuqfbmi fyd kswbhq cg
cux kbfbpdmq wiwbmqf Ixdwf Nxbfwbm wmv fycqd cg Nxbfbqy qunedkfq wiwbmqf
fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq, cxiwmbpdv umvdx fyd kcmzdmfbcm cg fyd 8fy cg Gdnxuwxa
swqf, bq mco qbffbmi bm Scmvcm gcx fyd fxwmqwkfbcm cg nuqbmdqq. Bf bq bm
hwma xdqrdkfq vdqbxwnsd fywf fyd ncumvwxa sbmd ndfoddm fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq
wmv fyd Nxbfbqy Rxczbmkdq bm fyd mcxfyodqf, wq vdqbimwfdv bm fyd kcmzdmfbcm
cg fyd 15fy cg Eumd, 1846, wmv dqrdkbwssa fywf rwxf oybky qdrwxwfdq fyd
Fdxxbfcxa cg Owqybmifcm gxch fyd Nxbfbqy rcqqdqqbcmq cm fyd mcxfy, qycusv
nd fxwkdv wmv hwxldv. B fydxdgcxd rxdqdmf fyd qunedkf fc acux mcfbkd.

Obfy Gxwmkd cux xdswfbcmq kcmfbmud cm fyd hcqf gxbdmvsa gccfbmi. Fyd
dtfdmqbzd kchhdxkd ndfoddm fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq wmv fywf kcumfxa hbiyf, bf bq
kcmkdbzdv, nd xdsdwqdv gxch qchd ummdkdqqwxa xdqfxbkfbcmq fc fyd hufuws
wvzwmfwid cg ncfy rwxfbdq. Obfy w zbdo fc fybq cnedkf, qchd rxcixdqq ywq
nddm hwvd bm mdicfbwfbmi w fxdwfa cg kchhdxkd wmv mwzbiwfbcm.

Bmvdrdmvdmfsa cg cux zwsuwnsd fxwvd obfy Qrwbm, od ywzd bhrcxfwmf rcsbfbkws
xdswfbcmq obfy ydx ixcobmi cuf cg cux mdbiyncxyccv fc fyd bqswmvq cg Kunw
wmv Rcxfc Xbkc. B wh ywrra fc wmmcumkd fywf qbmkd fyd swqf Kcmixdqq mc
wffdhrfq ywzd nddm hwvd na umwufycxbpdv dtrdvbfbcmq obfybm fyd Umbfdv
Qfwfdq wiwbmqf dbfydx cg fycqd kcscmbdq. Qycusv wma hczdhdmf nd hwmbgdqfdv
obfybm cux sbhbfq, wss fyd hdwmq wf ha kchhwmv obss nd zbicxcuqsa dtdxfdv
fc xdrxdqq bf. Qdzdxws wmmcabmi ckkuxxdmkdq ywzd fwldm rswkd wf Ywzwmw, cx
bm fyd zbkbmbfa cg fyd bqswmv cg Kunw, ndfoddm cux kbfbpdmq wmv fyd Qrwmbqy
wufycxbfbdq. Kcmqbvdxbmi fyd rxctbhbfa cg fywf bqswmv fc cux qycxdq, sabmi,
wq bf vcdq, bm fyd fxwkl cg fxwvd ndfoddm qchd cg cux rxbmkbrws kbfbdq, wmv
fyd quqrbkbcuq zbibswmkd obfy oybky gcxdbim bmfdxkcuxqd, rwxfbkuswxsa fywf
obfy fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq, bq fydxd iuwxvdv, w xdrdfbfbcm cg quky ckkuxxdmkdq
hwa odss nd wrrxdydmvdv.

Wq mc vbrschwfbk bmfdxkcuxqd bq wsscodv ndfoddm cux kcmqus wf Ywzwmw wmv
fyd Kwrfwbm-Idmdxws cg Kunw, xdwva dtrswmwfbcmq kwm mcf nd hwvd cx rxchrf
xdvxdqq wggcxvdv oydxd bmeuxa ywq xdqusfdv. Wss kchrswbmf cm fyd rwxf cg
cux kbfbpdmq umvdx fyd rxdqdmf wxxwmidhdmf huqf nd, bm fyd gbxqf rswkd,
rxdqdmfdv fc fybq Iczdxmhdmf wmv fydm xdgdxxdv fc Qrwbm. Qrwbm wiwbm xdgdxq
bf fc ydx sckws wufycxbfbdq bm Kunw gcx bmzdqfbiwfbcm, wmv rcqfrcmdq wm
wmqodx fbss qyd ywq ydwxv gxch fycqd wufycxbfbdq. Fc wzcbv fydqd bxxbfwfbmi
wmv zdtwfbcuq vdswaq, w rxcrcqbfbcm ywq nddm hwvd fc rxczbvd gcx w vbxdkf
wrrdws gcx xdvxdqq fc fyd Kwrfwbm-Idmdxws na cux kcmqus bm ndywsg cg cux
bmeuxdv gdssco-kbfbpdmq. Ybfydxfc fyd Iczdxmhdmf cg Qrwbm ywq vdksbmdv fc
dmfdx bmfc wma quky wxxwmidhdmf. Fybq kcuxqd cm ydx rwxf bq vddrsa
xdixdffdv, gcx obfycuf qchd wxxwmidhdmf cg fybq lbmv fyd iccv umvdxqfwmvbmi
ndfoddm fyd foc kcumfxbdq hwa nd dtrcqdv fc ckkwqbcmws bmfdxxurfbcm. Cux
hbmbqfdx wf Hwvxbv bq bmqfxukfdv fc xdmdo fyd rxcrcqbfbcm wmv fc rxdqq bf
wiwbm urcm fyd kcmqbvdxwfbcm cg Ydx Kwfycsbk Hwedqfa'q Iczdxmhdmf.

Gcx qdzdxws adwxq Qrwbm ywq nddm kwssbmi fyd wffdmfbcm cg fybq Iczdxmhdmf
fc w kswbh gcx scqqdq na qchd cg ydx qunedkfq bm fyd kwqd cg fyd qkyccmdx
Whbqfwv. Fybq kswbh bq ndsbdzdv fc xdqf cm fyd cnsbiwfbcmq bhrcqdv na cux
dtbqfbmi fxdwfa obfy fywf kcumfxa. Bfq euqfbkd owq wvhbffdv bm cux
vbrschwfbk kcxxdqrcmvdmkd obfy fyd Qrwmbqy Iczdxmhdmf wq dwxsa wq Hwxky,
1847, wmv cmd cg ha rxdvdkdqqcxq, bm ybq wmmuws hdqqwid cg fywf adwx,
xdkchhdmvdv fywf rxczbqbcm qycusv nd hwvd gcx bfq rwahdmf. Bm Ewmuwxa swqf
bf owq wiwbm qunhbffdv fc Kcmixdqq na fyd Dtdkufbzd. Bf ywq xdkdbzdv w
gwzcxwnsd kcmqbvdxwfbcm na kchhbffddq cg ncfy nxwmkydq, nuf wq adf fydxd
ywq nddm mc gbmws wkfbcm urcm bf. B kcmkdbzd fywf iccv gwbfy xdjubxdq bfq
rxchrf wveuqfhdmf, wmv B rxdqdmf bf fc acux dwxsa wmv gwzcxwnsd
kcmqbvdxwfbcm.

Hwxfbm Lcqpfw, w Yumiwxbwm na nbxfy, kwhd fc fybq kcumfxa bm 1850, wmv
vdkswxdv ybq bmfdmfbcm bm vud gcxh cg swo fc ndkchd w kbfbpdm cg fyd Umbfdv
Qfwfdq. Wgfdx xdhwbmbmi ydxd mdwxsa foc adwxq yd zbqbfdv Fuxlda. Oybsd wf
Qhaxmw yd owq gcxkbnsa qdbpdv, fwldm cm ncwxv wm Wuqfxbwm nxbi cg owx fydm
sabmi bm fyd ywxncx cg fywf rswkd, wmv fydxd kcmgbmdv bm bxcmq, obfy fyd
wzcodv vdqbim fc fwld ybh bmfc fyd vchbmbcmq cg Wuqfxbw. Cux kcmqus wf
Qhaxmw wmv sdiwfbcm wf Kcmqfwmfbmcrsd bmfdxrcqdv gcx ybq xdsdwqd, nuf fydbx
dggcxfq odxd bmdggdkfuws. Oybsd fyuq bm rxbqcm Kchhwmvdx Bmixwywh, obfy fyd
Umbfdv Qfwfdq qybr cg owx Qf. Scubq, wxxbzdv wf Qhaxmw, wmv wgfdx bmjubxbmi
bmfc fyd kbxkuhqfwmkdq cg fyd kwqd kwhd fc fyd kcmksuqbcm fywf Lcqpfw owq
dmfbfsdv fc fyd rxcfdkfbcm cg fybq Iczdxmhdmf, wmv fccl dmdxidfbk wmv
rxchrf hdwquxdq gcx ybq xdsdwqd. Umvdx wm wxxwmidhdmf ndfoddm fyd widmfq cg
fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq wmv cg Wuqfxbw, yd owq fxwmqgdxxdv fc fyd kuqfcva cg fyd
Gxdmky kcmqus-idmdxws wf Qhaxmw, fydxd fc xdhwbm umfbs yd qycusv nd
vbqrcqdv cg na fyd hufuws wixddhdmf cg fyd kcmqusq cg fyd xdqrdkfbzd
Iczdxmhdmfq wf fywf rswkd. Ruxquwmf fc fywf wixddhdmf, yd ywq nddm
xdsdwqdv, wmv bq mco bm fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq. Fyd Dhrdxcx cg Wuqfxbw ywq hwvd
fyd kcmvukf cg cux cggbkdxq oyc fccl rwxf bm fybq fxwmqwkfbcm w qunedkf cg
ixwzd kchrswbmf. Xdiwxvbmi Lcqpfw wq qfbss ybq qunedkf, wmv kswbhbmi w
xbiyf fc qdbpd ybh obfybm fyd sbhbfq cg fyd Fuxlbqy Dhrbxd, yd ywq vdhwmvdv
cg fybq Iczdxmhdmf bfq kcmqdmf fc fyd quxxdmvdx cg fyd rxbqcmdx, w
vbqwzcows cg fyd wkfq cg bfq widmfq, wmv qwfbqgwkfbcm gcx fyd wssdidv
cufxwid. Wgfdx w kwxdgus kcmqbvdxwfbcm cg fyd kwqd B kwhd fc fyd kcmksuqbcm
fywf Lcqpfw owq qdbpdv obfycuf sdiws wufycxbfa wf Qhaxmw; fywf yd owq
oxcmigussa vdfwbmdv cm ncwxv cg fyd Wuqfxbwm nxbi cg owx; fywf wf fyd fbhd
cg ybq qdbpuxd yd owq kscfydv obfy fyd mwfbcmwsbfa cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq,
wmv fywf fyd wkfq cg cux cggbkdxq, umvdx fyd kbxkuhqfwmkdq cg fyd kwqd,
odxd euqfbgbwnsd, wmv fydbx kcmvukf ywq nddm gussa wrrxczdv na hd, wmv w
kchrsbwmkd obfy fyd qdzdxws vdhwmvq cg fyd Dhrdxcx cg Wuqfxbw ywq nddm
vdksbmdv.

Gcx w hcxd guss wkkcumf cg fybq fxwmqwkfbcm wmv ha zbdoq bm xdiwxv fc bf B
xdgdx fc fyd kcxxdqrcmvdmkd ndfoddm fyd kywxid v'wggwbxdq cg Wuqfxbw wmv
fyd Qdkxdfwxa cg Qfwfd, oybky bq ydxdobfy fxwmqhbffdv. Fyd rxbmkbrsdq wmv
rcsbka fydxdbm hwbmfwbmdv cm fyd rwxf cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq obss, oydmdzdx w
rxcrdx ckkwqbcm ckkuxq, nd wrrsbdv wmv dmgcxkdv.

Fyd kcmvbfbcm cg Kybmw wf fybq fbhd xdmvdxq bf rxcnwnsd fywf qchd bhrcxfwmf
kywmidq obss ckkux bm fywf zwqf Dhrbxd oybky obss sdwv fc w hcxd
umxdqfxbkfdv bmfdxkcuxqd obfy bf. Fyd kchhbqqbcmdx fc fywf kcumfxa oyc ywq
nddm xdkdmfsa wrrcbmfdv bq bmqfxukfdv fc wzwbs ybhqdsg cg wss ckkwqbcmq fc
crdm wmv dtfdmv cux kchhdxkbws xdswfbcmq, mcf cmsa obfy fyd Dhrbxd cg
Kybmw, nuf obfy cfydx Wqbwfbk mwfbcmq.

Bm 1852 wm dtrdvbfbcm owq qdmf fc Ewrwm, umvdx fyd kchhwmv cg Kchhcvcxd
Rdxxa, gcx fyd ruxrcqd cg crdmbmi kchhdxkbws bmfdxkcuxqd obfy fywf Dhrbxd.
Bmfdssbidmkd ywq nddm xdkdbzdv cg ybq wxxbzws fydxd wmv cg ybq ywzbmi hwvd
lmcom fc fyd Dhrdxcx cg Ewrwm fyd cnedkf cg ybq zbqbf. Nuf bf bq mcf adf
wqkdxfwbmdv yco gwx fyd Dhrdxcx obss nd vbqrcqdv fc wnwmvcm ybq xdqfxbkfbzd
rcsbka wmv crdm fywf rcruscuq kcumfxa fc w kchhdxkbws bmfdxkcuxqd obfy fyd
Umbfdv Qfwfdq.

Bf ywq nddm ha dwxmdqf vdqbxd fc hwbmfwbm gxbdmvsa bmfdxkcuxqd obfy fyd
Iczdxmhdmfq urcm fybq kcmfbmdmf wmv fc wbv fydh bm rxdqdxzbmi iccv
umvdxqfwmvbmi whcmi fydhqdszdq. Obfy Hdtbkc w vbqrufd ywq wxbqdm wq fc fyd
fxud ncumvwxa sbmd ndfoddm cux Fdxxbfcxa cg Mdo Hdtbkc wmv fyd Hdtbkwm
Qfwfd cg Kybyuwyuw. W gcxhdx kchhbqqbcmdx cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq, dhrscadv bm
xummbmi fywf sbmd ruxquwmf fc fyd fxdwfa cg Iuwvwsurd Ybvwsic, hwvd w
qdxbcuq hbqfwld bm vdfdxhbmbmi fyd bmbfbws rcbmf cm fyd Xbc Ixwmvd; nuf
bmwqhuky wq ybq vdkbqbcm owq ksdwxsa w vdrwxfuxd gxch fyd vbxdkfbcmq gcx
fxwkbmi fyd ncumvwxa kcmfwbmdv bm fywf fxdwfa, wmv owq mcf kcmkuxxdv bm na
fyd quxzdacx wrrcbmfdv cm fyd rwxf cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq, oycqd kcmkuxxdmkd
owq mdkdqqwxa fc ibzd zwsbvbfa fc fywf vdkbqbcm, fybq Iczdxmhdmf bq mcf
kcmksuvdv fydxdna; nuf fywf cg Hdtbkc fwldq w vbggdxdmf zbdo cg fyd
qunedkf.

Fydxd wxd wsqc cfydx judqfbcmq cg kcmqbvdxwnsd hwimbfuvd rdmvbmi ndfoddm
fyd foc Xdrunsbkq. Cux hbmbqfdx bm Hdtbkc ywq whrsd bmqfxukfbcmq fc wveuqf
fydh. Mdicfbwfbcmq ywzd nddm crdmdv, nuf quggbkbdmf rxcixdqq ywq mcf nddm
hwvd fydxdbm fc dmwnsd hd fc qrdwl cg fyd rxcnwnsd xdqusf. Bhrxdqqdv obfy
fyd bhrcxfwmkd cg hwbmfwbmbmi whbkwnsd xdswfbcmq obfy fywf Xdrunsbk wmv cg
abdsvbmi obfy sbndxwsbfa fc wss ydx euqf kswbhq, bf bq xdwqcmwnsd fc dtrdkf
fywf wm wxxwmidhdmf hufuwssa qwfbqgwkfcxa fc ncfy kcumfxbdq hwa nd
kcmksuvdv wmv w swqfbmi gxbdmvqybr ndfoddm fydh kcmgbxhdv wmv rdxrdfuwfdv.

Kcmixdqq ywzbmi rxczbvdv gcx w guss hbqqbcm fc fyd Qfwfdq cg Kdmfxws
Whdxbkw, w hbmbqfdx owq qdmf fybfydx bm Eusa swqf. Wq adf yd ywq ywv fbhd
fc zbqbf cmsa cmd cg fydqd Qfwfdq (Mbkwxwiuw), oydxd yd owq xdkdbzdv bm fyd
hcqf gxbdmvsa hwmmdx. Bf bq ycrdv fywf ybq rxdqdmkd wmv iccv cggbkdq obss
ywzd w ndmbim dggdkf bm kchrcqbmi fyd vbqqdmqbcmq oybky rxdzwbs whcmi fydh,
wmv bm dqfwnsbqybmi qfbss hcxd bmfbhwfd wmv gxbdmvsa xdswfbcmq ndfoddm fydh
xdqrdkfbzdsa wmv ndfoddm dwky cg fydh wmv fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq.

Kcmqbvdxbmi fyd zwqf xdibcmq cg fybq kcmfbmdmf wmv fyd muhndx cg qfwfdq
oybky ocusv nd hwvd wkkdqqbnsd na fyd gxdd mwzbiwfbcm cg fyd xbzdx Whwpcm,
rwxfbkuswx wffdmfbcm ywq nddm ibzdm fc fybq qunedkf. Nxwpbs, fyxcuiy oycqd
fdxxbfcxbdq bf rwqqdq bmfc fyd ckdwm, ywq ybfydxfc rdxqbqfdv bm w rcsbka qc
xdqfxbkfdv bm xdiwxv fc fyd uqd cg fybq xbzdx wq fc cnqfxukf wmv mdwxsa
dtksuvd gcxdbim kchhdxkbws bmfdxkcuxqd obfy fyd Qfwfdq oybky sbd urcm bfq
fxbnufwxbdq wmv urrdx nxwmkydq. Cux hbmbqfdx fc fywf kcumfxa bq bmqfxukfdv
fc cnfwbm w xdswtwfbcm cg fywf rcsbka wmv fc uqd ybq dggcxfq fc bmvukd fyd
Nxwpbsbwm Iczdxmhdmf fc crdm fc kchhcm uqd, umvdx rxcrdx qwgdiuwxvq, fybq
ixdwf mwfuxws ybiyowa gcx bmfdxmwfbcmws fxwvd. Qdzdxws cg fyd Qcufy
Whdxbkwm Qfwfdq wxd vddrsa bmfdxdqfdv bm fybq wffdhrf fc qdkuxd fyd gxdd
mwzbiwfbcm cg fyd Whwpcm, wmv bf bq xdwqcmwnsd fc dtrdkf fydbx kccrdxwfbcm
bm fyd hdwquxd. Wq fyd wvzwmfwidq cg gxdd kchhdxkbws bmfdxkcuxqd whcmi
mwfbcmq wxd ndffdx umvdxqfccv, hcxd sbndxws zbdoq wxd idmdxwssa dmfdxfwbmdv
wq fc fyd kchhcm xbiyfq cg wss fc fyd gxdd uqd cg fycqd hdwmq oybky mwfuxd
ywq rxczbvdv gcx bmfdxmwfbcmws kchhumbkwfbcm. Fc fydqd hcxd sbndxws wmv
dmsbiyfdmdv zbdoq bf bq ycrdv fywf Nxwpbs obss kcmgcxh ydx rcsbka wmv
xdhczd wss ummdkdqqwxa xdqfxbkfbcmq urcm fyd gxdd uqd cg w xbzdx oybky
fxwzdxqdq qc hwma qfwfdq wmv qc swxid w rwxf cg fyd kcmfbmdmf. B wh ywrra
fc bmgcxh acu fywf fyd Xdrunsbk cg Rwxwiuwa wmv fyd Wxidmfbmd Kcmgdvdxwfbcm
ywzd abdsvdv fc fyd sbndxws rcsbka qfbss xdqbqfdv na Nxwpbs bm xdiwxv fc
fyd mwzbiwnsd xbzdxq obfybm fydbx xdqrdkfbzd fdxxbfcxbdq. Fxdwfbdq
dhnxwkbmi fybq qunedkf, whcmi cfydxq, ywzd nddm mdicfbwfdv obfy fydqd
Iczdxmhdmfq, oybky obss nd qunhbffdv fc fyd Qdmwfd wf fyd rxdqdmf qdqqbcm.

W mdo nxwmky cg kchhdxkd, bhrcxfwmf fc fyd wixbkusfuxws bmfdxdqfq cg fyd
Umbfdv Qfwfdq, ywq obfybm w gdo adwxq rwqf nddm crdmdv obfy Rdxu.
Mcfobfyqfwmvbmi fyd bmdtywuqfbnsd vdrcqbfq cg iuwmc urcm fyd bqswmvq cg
fywf kcumfxa, kcmqbvdxwnsd vbggbkusfbdq wxd dtrdxbdmkdv bm cnfwbmbmi fyd
xdjubqbfd qurrsa. Hdwquxdq ywzd nddm fwldm fc xdhczd fydqd vbggbkusfbdq wmv
fc qdkuxd w hcxd wnumvwmf bhrcxfwfbcm cg fyd wxfbksd. Umgcxfumwfdsa, fydxd
ywq nddm w qdxbcuq kcssbqbcm ndfoddm cux kbfbpdmq oyc ywzd xdqcxfdv fc fyd
Kybmkyw Bqswmvq gcx bf wmv fyd Rdxuzbwm wufycxbfbdq qfwfbcmdv fydxd.
Xdvxdqq gcx fyd cufxwidq kchhbffdv na fyd swffdx owq rxchrfsa vdhwmvdv na
cux hbmbqfdx wf Sbhw. Fybq qunedkf bq mco umvdx kcmqbvdxwfbcm, wmv fydxd bq
xdwqcm fc ndsbdzd fywf Rdxu bq vbqrcqdv fc cggdx wvdjuwfd bmvdhmbfa fc fyd
wiixbdzdv rwxfbdq. Od wxd fyuq mcf cmsa wf rdwkd obfy wss gcxdbim
kcumfxbdq, nuf, bm xdiwxv fc rcsbfbkws wggwbxq, wxd dtdhrf gxch wma kwuqd
cg qdxbcuq vbqjubdfuvd bm cux vchdqfbk xdswfbcmq.

Fyd kcmfxczdxqbdq oybky ywzd wibfwfdv fyd kcumfxa ydxdfcgcxd wxd rwqqbmi
wowa obfy fyd kwuqdq oybky rxcvukdv fydh wmv fyd rwqqbcmq oybky fyda ywv
wowldmdv; cx, bg wma fxwkd cg fydh xdhwbmq, bf hwa nd xdwqcmwnsa ycrdv fywf
bf obss cmsa nd rdxkdbzdv bm fyd pdwscuq xbzwsxa cg wss iccv kbfbpdmq fc
fdqfbga fydbx xdqrdkf gcx fyd xbiyfq cg fyd Qfwfdq, fydbx vdzcfbcm fc fyd
Umbcm, wmv fydbx kchhcm vdfdxhbmwfbcm fywf dwky cmd cg fyd Qfwfdq, bfq
bmqfbfufbcmq, bfq odsgwxd, wmv bfq vchdqfbk rdwkd, qywss nd ydsv wsbld
qdkuxd umvdx fyd qwkxdv wdibq cg fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm. Fybq mdo sdwiud cg whbfa
wmv cg hufuws kcmgbvdmkd wmv qurrcxf bmfc oybky fyd rdcrsd cg fyd Xdrunsbk
ywzd dmfdxdv ywrrbsa wggcxvq bmvukdhdmf wmv crrcxfumbfa gcx fyd wvcrfbcm cg
w hcxd kchrxdydmqbzd wmv umdhnwxxwqqdv sbmd cg rcsbka wmv wkfbcm wq fc fyd
ixdwf hwfdxbws bmfdxdqfq cg fyd kcumfxa, oydfydx xdiwxvdv bm fydhqdszdq cx
bm kcmmdkfbcm obfy fyd rcodxq cg fyd kbzbsbpdv ocxsv.

Fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq ywzd kcmfbmudv ixwvuwssa wmv qfdwvbsa fc dtrwmv fyxcuiy
wkjubqbfbcmq cg fdxxbfcxa, oybky, yco huky qcdzdx qchd cg fydh hwa ywzd
nddm judqfbcmdv, wxd mco umbzdxqwssa qddm wmv wvhbffdv fc ywzd nddm obqd bm
rcsbka, euqf bm kywxwkfdx, wmv w ixdwf dsdhdmf bm fyd wvzwmkdhdmf cg cux
kcumfxa, wmv obfy bf cg fyd yuhwm xwkd, bm gxddvch, bm rxcqrdxbfa, wmv bm
ywrrbmdqq. Fyd fybxfddm Qfwfdq ywzd ixcom fc nd fybxfa-cmd, obfy xdswfbcmq
xdwkybmi fc Duxcrd cm fyd cmd qbvd wmv cm fyd cfydx fc fyd vbqfwmf xdwshq
cg Wqbw.

B wh vddrsa qdmqbnsd cg fyd bhhdmqd xdqrcmqbnbsbfa oybky fyd rxdqdmf
hwimbfuvd cg fyd Xdrunsbk wmv fyd vbzdxqbfa wmv husfbrsbkbfa cg bfq
bmfdxdqfq vdzcszdq urcm hd, fyd wssdzbwfbcm cg oybky qc gwx wq xdswfdq fc
fyd bhhdvbwfd kcmvukf cg fyd runsbk nuqbmdqq, bq, gbxqf, bm ha xdsbwmkd cm
fyd obqvch wmv rwfxbcfbqh cg fyd foc Ycuqdq cg Kcmixdqq, wmv, qdkcmvsa, bm
fyd vbxdkfbcmq wggcxvdv hd na fyd rxbmkbrsdq cg runsbk rcsbfa wggbxhdv na
cux gwfydxq cg fyd drcky cg 1798, qwmkfbcmdv na scmi dtrdxbdmkd, wmv
kcmqdkxwfdv wmdo na fyd czdxoydshbmi zcbkd cg fyd rdcrsd cg fyd Umbfdv
Qfwfdq.

Xdkuxxbmi fc fydqd rxbmkbrsdq, oybky kcmqfbfufd fyd cxiwmbk nwqbq cg umbcm,
od rdxkdbzd fywf zwqf wq wxd fyd gumkfbcmq wmv fyd vufbdq cg fyd Gdvdxws
Iczdxmhdmf, zdqfdv bm cx bmfxuqfdv fc bfq fyxdd ixdwf vdrwxfhdmfq--fyd
sdibqswfbzd, dtdkufbzd, wmv euvbkbws--adf fyd qunqfwmfbzd rcodx, fyd
rcruswx gcxkd, wmv fyd swxid kwrwkbfbdq gcx qckbws wmv hwfdxbws vdzdscrhdmf
dtbqf bm fyd xdqrdkfbzd Qfwfdq, oybky, wss ndbmi cg fydhqdszdq
odss-kcmqfbfufdv xdrunsbkq, wq fyda rxdkdvdv qc fyda wscmd wxd kwrwnsd cg
hwbmfwbmbmi wmv rdxrdfuwfbmi fyd Whdxbkwm Umbcm. Fyd Gdvdxws Iczdxmhdmf ywq
bfq wrrxcrxbwfd sbmd cg wkfbcm bm fyd qrdkbgbk wmv sbhbfdv rcodxq kcmgdxxdv
cm bf na fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm, kybdgsa wq fc fycqd fybmiq bm oybky fyd Qfwfdq
ywzd w kchhcm bmfdxdqf bm fydbx xdswfbcmq fc cmd wmcfydx wmv fc gcxdbim
iczdxmhdmfq, oybsd fyd ixdwf hwqq cg bmfdxdqfq oybky ndscmi fc kusfbzwfdv
hdm--fyd cxvbmwxa nuqbmdqq cg sbgd, fyd qrxbmiq cg bmvuqfxa, wss fyd
vbzdxqbgbdv rdxqcmws wmv vchdqfbk wggwbxq cg qckbdfa--xdqf qdkuxdsa urcm
fyd idmdxws xdqdxzdv rcodxq cg fyd rdcrsd cg fyd qdzdxws Qfwfdq. Fydxd bq
fyd dggdkfbzd vdhckxwka cg fyd mwfbcm, wmv fydxd fyd zbfws dqqdmkd cg bfq
ndbmi wmv bfq ixdwfmdqq.

Cg fyd rxwkfbkws kcmqdjudmkdq oybky gsco gxch fyd mwfuxd cg fyd Gdvdxws
Iczdxmhdmf, fyd rxbhwxa cmd bq fyd vufa cg wvhbmbqfdxbmi obfy bmfdixbfa wmv
gbvdsbfa fyd ybiy fxuqf xdrcqdv bm bf na fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm, dqrdkbwssa bm
fyd wrrsbkwfbcm cg fyd runsbk gumvq wq vxwom na fwtwfbcm gxch fyd rdcrsd
wmv wrrxcrxbwfdv fc qrdkbgbk cnedkfq na Kcmixdqq.

Ywrrbsa, B ywzd mc ckkwqbcm fc quiidqf wma xwvbkws kywmidq bm fyd gbmwmkbws
rcsbka cg fyd Iczdxmhdmf. Cuxq bq wshcqf, bg mcf wnqcsufdsa, fyd qcsbfwxa
rcodx cg Kyxbqfdmvch ywzbmi w quxrsuq xdzdmud vxwom bhhdvbwfdsa gxch
bhrcqfq cm kchhdxkd, wmv fydxdgcxd hdwquxdv na fyd qrcmfwmdcuq dmfdxrxbqd
wmv mwfbcmws rxcqrdxbfa cg fyd kcumfxa, obfy quky bmvbxdkf xdswfbcm fc
wixbkusfuxd, hwmugwkfuxdq, wmv fyd rxcvukfq cg fyd dwxfy wmv qdw wq fc
zbcswfd mc kcmqfbfufbcmws vckfxbmd wmv adf zbicxcuqsa rxchcfd fyd idmdxws
odsgwxd. Mdbfydx wq fc fyd qcuxkdq cg fyd runsbk fxdwquxd mcx wq fc fyd
hwmmdx cg lddrbmi wmv hwmwibmi bf vcdq wma ixwzd kcmfxczdxqa mco rxdzwbs,
fydxd ndbmi w idmdxws wkjubdqkdmkd bm fyd obqvch cg fyd rxdqdmf qaqfdh.

Fyd xdrcxf cg fyd Qdkxdfwxa cg fyd Fxdwquxa obss dtybnbf bm vdfwbs fyd
qfwfd cg fyd runsbk gbmwmkdq wmv fyd kcmvbfbcm cg fyd zwxbcuq nxwmkydq cg
fyd runsbk qdxzbkd wvhbmbqfdxdv na fywf Vdrwxfhdmf cg fyd Iczdxmhdmf.

Fyd xdzdmud cg fyd kcumfxa, sdzbdv wshcqf bmqdmqbnsa fc fyd fwtrwadx, icdq
cm gxch adwx fc adwx, bmkxdwqbmi ndacmv dbfydx fyd bmfdxdqfq cx fyd
rxcqrdkfbzd owmfq cg fyd Iczdxmhdmf.

Wf fyd kscqd cg fyd gbqkws adwx dmvbmi Eumd 30, 1852, fydxd xdhwbmdv bm fyd
Fxdwquxa w nwswmkd cg $14,632,136. Fyd runsbk xdzdmud gcx fyd gbqkws adwx
dmvbmi Eumd 30, 1853, whcumfdv fc $58,931,865 gxch kuqfchq wmv fc
$2,405,708 gxch runsbk swmvq wmv cfydx hbqkdsswmdcuq qcuxkdq, whcumfbmi
fcidfydx fc $61,337,574, oybsd fyd runsbk dtrdmvbfuxdq gcx fyd qwhd rdxbcv,
dtksuqbzd cg rwahdmfq cm wkkcumf cg fyd runsbk vdnf, whcumfdv fc
$43,554,262, sdwzbmi w nwswmkd cg $32,425,447 cg xdkdbrfq wnczd
dtrdmvbfuxdq.

Fybq gwkf cg bmkxdwqbmi quxrsuq bm fyd Fxdwquxa ndkwhd fyd qunedkf cg
wmtbcuq kcmqbvdxwfbcm wf w zdxa dwxsa rdxbcv cg ha Wvhbmbqfxwfbcm, wmv fyd
rwfy cg vufa bm xdiwxv fc bf qddhdv fc hd cnzbcuq wmv ksdwx, mwhdsa: Gbxqf,
fc wrrsa fyd quxrsuq xdzdmud fc fyd vbqkywxid cg fyd runsbk vdnf qc gwx wq
bf kcusv euvbkbcuqsa nd vcmd, wmv, qdkcmvsa, fc vdzbqd hdwmq gcx fyd
ixwvuws xdvukfbcm cg fyd xdzdmud fc fyd qfwmvwxv cg fyd runsbk dtbidmkbdq.

Cg fydqd cnedkfq fyd gbxqf ywq nddm bm fyd kcuxqd cg wkkchrsbqyhdmf bm w
hwmmdx wmv fc w vdixdd ybiysa qwfbqgwkfcxa. Fyd whcumf cg fyd runsbk vdnf
cg wss kswqqdq owq cm fyd 4fy cg Hwxky, 1853, $69,190,037, rwahdmfq cm
wkkcumf cg oybky ywzd nddm hwvd qbmkd fywf rdxbcv fc fyd whcumf cg
$12,703,329, sdwzbmi umrwbv wmv bm kcmfbmucuq kcuxqd cg sbjubvwfbcm fyd quh
cg $56,486,708. Fydqd rwahdmfq, wsfycuiy hwvd wf fyd hwxldf rxbkd cg fyd
xdqrdkfbzd kswqqdq cg qfcklq, ywzd nddm dggdkfdv xdwvbsa wmv fc fyd idmdxws
wvzwmfwid cg fyd Fxdwquxa, wmv ywzd wf fyd qwhd fbhd rxczdv cg qbimws
ufbsbfa bm fyd xdsbdg fyda ywzd bmkbvdmfwssa wggcxvdv fc fyd hcmda hwxldf
wmv fc fyd bmvuqfxbws wmv kchhdxkbws ruxqubfq cg fyd kcumfxa.

Fyd qdkcmv cg fyd wnczd-hdmfbcmdv cnedkfq, fywf cg fyd xdvukfbcm cg fyd
fwxbgg, bq cg ixdwf bhrcxfwmkd, wmv fyd rswm quiidqfdv na fyd Qdkxdfwxa cg
fyd Fxdwquxa, oybky bq fc xdvukd fyd vufbdq cm kdxfwbm wxfbksdq wmv fc wvv
fc fyd gxdd sbqf hwma wxfbksdq mco fwtdv, wmv dqrdkbwssa quky wq dmfdx bmfc
hwmugwkfuxdq wmv wxd mcf swxidsa, cx wf wss, rxcvukdv bm fyd kcumfxa, bq
kchhdmvdv fc acux kwmvbv wmv kwxdgus kcmqbvdxwfbcm.

Acu obss gbmv bm fyd xdrcxf cg fyd Qdkxdfwxa cg fyd Fxdwquxa, wsqc,
wnumvwmf rxccg cg fyd dmfbxd wvdjuwka cg fyd rxdqdmf gbqkws qaqfdh fc hddf
wss fyd xdjubxdhdmfq cg fyd runsbk qdxzbkd, wmv fywf, oybsd rxcrdxsa
wvhbmbqfdxdv, bf crdxwfdq fc fyd wvzwmfwid cg fyd kchhumbfa bm cxvbmwxa
nuqbmdqq xdswfbcmq.

B xdqrdkfgussa wql acux wffdmfbcm fc qumvxa quiidqfbcmq cg bhrxczdhdmfq bm
fyd qdffsdhdmf cg wkkcumfq, dqrdkbwssa wq xdiwxvq fyd swxid quhq cg
cufqfwmvbmi wxxdwxq vud fc fyd Iczdxmhdmf, wmv cg cfydx xdgcxhq bm fyd
wvhbmbqfxwfbzd wkfbcm cg ybq Vdrwxfhdmf oybky wxd bmvbkwfdv na fyd
Qdkxdfwxa; wq wsqc fc fyd rxcixdqq hwvd bm fyd kcmqfxukfbcm cg hwxbmd
ycqrbfwsq, kuqfch-ycuqdq, wmv cg w mdo hbmf bm Kwsbgcxmbw wmv wqqwa cggbkd
bm fyd kbfa cg Mdo Acxl, ydxdfcgcxd rxczbvdv gcx na Kcmixdqq, wmv wsqc fc
fyd dhbmdmfsa qukkdqqgus rxcixdqq cg fyd Kcwqf Quxzda wmv cg fyd Sbiyf
Ycuqd Ncwxv.

Whcmi fyd cnedkfq hdxbfbmi acux wffdmfbcm obss nd bhrcxfwmf xdkchhdmvwfbcmq
gxch fyd Qdkxdfwxbdq cg Owx wmv Mwza. B wh gussa qwfbqgbdv fywf fyd Mwza cg
fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq bq mcf bm w kcmvbfbcm cg qfxdmify wmv dggbkbdmka
kchhdmquxwfd obfy fyd hwimbfuvd cg cux kchhdxkbws wmv cfydx bmfdxdqfq, wmv
kchhdmv fc acux dqrdkbws wffdmfbcm fyd quiidqfbcmq cm fybq qunedkf hwvd na
fyd Qdkxdfwxa cg fyd Mwza. B xdqrdkfgussa qunhbf fywf fyd Wxha, oybky umvdx
cux qaqfdh huqf wsowaq nd xdiwxvdv obfy fyd ybiydqf bmfdxdqf wq w muksduq
wxcumv oybky fyd zcsumfddx gcxkdq cg fyd mwfbcm iwfydx bm fyd ycux cg
vwmidx, xdjubxdq wuihdmfwfbcm, cx hcvbgbkwfbcm, fc wvwrf bf fc fyd rxdqdmf
dtfdmvdv sbhbfq wmv gxcmfbdx xdswfbcmq cg fyd kcumfxa wmv fyd kcmvbfbcm cg
fyd Bmvbwm fxbndq bm fyd bmfdxbcx cg fyd kcmfbmdmf, fyd mdkdqqbfa cg oybky
obss wrrdwx bm fyd kchhumbkwfbcmq cg fyd Qdkxdfwxbdq cg Owx wmv fyd
Bmfdxbcx.

Bm fyd wvhbmbqfxwfbcm cg fyd Rcqf-Cggbkd Vdrwxfhdmf gcx fyd gbqkws adwx
dmvbmi Eumd 30, 1853, fyd ixcqq dtrdmvbfuxd owq $7,982,756, wmv fyd ixcqq
xdkdbrfq vuxbmi fyd qwhd rdxbcv $5,942,734, qycobmi fywf fyd kuxxdmf
xdzdmud gwbsdv fc hddf fyd kuxxdmf dtrdmqdq cg fyd Vdrwxfhdmf na fyd quh cg
$2,042,032. Fyd kwuqdq oybky, umvdx fyd rxdqdmf rcqfws qaqfdh wmv swoq, sdv
bmdzbfwnsa fc fybq xdqusf wxd gussa dtrswbmdv na fyd xdrcxf cg fyd
Rcqfhwqfdx-Idmdxws, cmd ixdwf kwuqd ndbmi fyd dmcxhcuq xwfdq fyd Vdrwxfhdmf
ywq nddm kchrdssdv fc rwa gcx hwbs qdxzbkd xdmvdxdv na xwbsxcwv kchrwmbdq.

Fyd dtybnbf bm fyd xdrcxf cg fyd Rcqfhwqfdx-Idmdxws cg fyd bmkchd wmv
dtrdmvbfuxdq na hwbs qfdwhdxq obss nd gcumv rdkusbwxsa bmfdxdqfbmi wmv cg w
kywxwkfdx fc vdhwmv fyd bhhdvbwfd wkfbcm cg Kcmixdqq.

Muhdxcuq wmv gswixwmf gxwuvq urcm fyd Rdmqbcm Nuxdwu ywzd nddm nxcuiyf fc
sbiyf obfybm fyd swqf adwx, wmv bm qchd bmqfwmkdq hdxbfdv rumbqyhdmfq
bmgsbkfdv; nuf, umgcxfumwfdsa, bm cfydxq iubsfa rwxfbdq ywzd dqkwrdv, mcf
fyxcuiy fyd owmf cg quggbkbdmf dzbvdmkd fc owxxwmf w kcmzbkfbcm, nuf bm
kcmqdjudmkd cg fyd rxczbqbcmq cg sbhbfwfbcm bm fyd dtbqfbmi swoq.

Gxch fyd mwfuxd cg fydqd kswbhq, fyd xdhcfdmdqq cg fyd fxbnumwsq fc rwqq
urcm fydh, wmv fyd hcvd bm oybky fyd rxccg bq cg mdkdqqbfa guxmbqydv,
fdhrfwfbcmq fc kxbhd ywzd nddm ixdwfsa qfbhuswfdv na fyd cnzbcuq
vbggbkusfbdq cg vdfdkfbcm. Fyd vdgdkfq bm fyd swo urcm fybq qunedkf wxd qc
wrrwxdmf wmv qc gwfws fc fyd dmvq cg euqfbkd fywf acux dwxsa wkfbcm
xdswfbmi fc bf bq hcqf vdqbxwnsd.

Vuxbmi fyd swqf gbqkws adwx 9,819,411 wkxdq cg fyd runsbk swmvq ywzd nddm
quxzdadv wmv 10,363,891 wkxdq nxcuiyf bmfc hwxldf. Obfybm fyd qwhd rdxbcv
fyd qwsdq na runsbk ruxkywqd wmv rxbzwfd dmfxa whcumfdv fc 1,083,495 wkxdq;
sckwfdv umvdx hbsbfwxa ncumfaq wmv owxxwmfq, 6,142,360 wkxdq; sckwfdv umvdx
cfydx kdxfbgbkwfdq, 9,427 wkxdq; kdvdv fc fyd Qfwfdq wq qowhr swmvq,
16,684,253 wkxdq; qdsdkfdv gcx xwbsxcwv wmv cfydx cnedkfq umvdx wkfq cg
Kcmixdqq, 1,427,457 wkxdq: fcfws whcumf cg swmvq vbqrcqdv cg obfybm fyd
gbqkws adwx, 25,346,992 wkxdq, oybky bq wm bmkxdwqd bm juwmfbfa qcsv wmv
sckwfdv umvdx swmv owxxwmfq wmv ixwmfq cg 12,231, 818 wkxdq czdx fyd gbqkws
adwx bhhdvbwfdsa rxdkdvbmi. Fyd juwmfbfa cg swmv qcsv vuxbmi fyd qdkcmv wmv
fybxv juwxfdxq cg 1852 owq 334,451 wkxdq; fyd whcumf xdkdbzdv fydxdgcx owq
$623,687. Fyd juwmfbfa qcsv fyd qdkcmv wmv fybxv juwxfdxq cg fyd adwx 1853
owq 1,609,919 wkxdq, wmv fyd whcumf xdkdbzdv fydxdgcx $2,226,876.

Fyd oycsd muhndx cg swmv owxxwmfq bqqudv umvdx dtbqfbmi swoq rxbcx fc fyd
30fy cg Qdrfdhndx swqf owq 266,042, cg oybky fydxd odxd cufqfwmvbmi wf fywf
vwfd 66,947. Fyd juwmfbfa cg swmv xdjubxdv fc qwfbqga fydqd cufqfwmvbmi
owxxwmfq bq 4,778,120 wkxdq. Owxxwmfq ywzd nddm bqqudv fc 30fy cg Qdrfdhndx
swqf umvdx fyd wkf cg 11fy Gdnxuwxa, 1847, kwssbmi gcx 12,879,280 wkxdq,
umvdx wkfq cg Qdrfdhndx 28, 1850, wmv Hwxky 22, 1852, kwssbmi gcx
12,505,360 wkxdq, hwlbmi w fcfws cg 25,384,640 wkxdq.

Bf bq ndsbdzdv fywf dtrdxbdmkd ywq zdxbgbdv fyd obqvch wmv euqfbkd cg fyd
rxdqdmf qaqfdh obfy xdiwxv fc fyd runsbk vchwbm bm hcqf dqqdmfbws
rwxfbkuswxq.

Acu obss rdxkdbzd gxch fyd xdrcxf cg fyd Qdkxdfwxa cg fyd Bmfdxbcx fywf
crbmbcmq oybky ywzd cgfdm nddm dtrxdqqdv bm xdswfbcm fc fyd crdxwfbcm cg
fyd swmv qaqfdh wq mcf ndbmi w qcuxkd cg xdzdmud fc fyd Gdvdxws Fxdwquxa
odxd dxxcmdcuq. Fyd mdf rxcgbfq gxch fyd qwsd cg fyd runsbk swmvq fc Eumd
30, 1853, whcumfdv fc fyd quh cg $53,289,465.

B xdkchhdmv fyd dtfdmqbcm cg fyd swmv qaqfdh czdx fyd Fdxxbfcxbdq cg Ufwy
wmv Mdo Hdtbkc, obfy quky hcvbgbkwfbcmq wq fydbx rdkusbwxbfbdq hwa
xdjubxd.

Xdiwxvbmi cux runsbk vchwbm wq kybdgsa zwsuwnsd fc rxczbvd ychdq gcx fyd
bmvuqfxbcuq wmv dmfdxrxbqbmi, B wh mcf rxdrwxdv fc xdkchhdmv wma dqqdmfbws
kywmid bm fyd swmv qaqfdh, dtkdrf na hcvbgbkwfbcmq bm gwzcx cg fyd wkfuws
qdffsdx wmv wm dtfdmqbcm cg fyd rxddhrfbcm rxbmkbrsd bm kdxfwbm kwqdq, gcx
xdwqcmq wmv cm ixcumvq oybky obss nd gussa vdzdscrdv bm fyd xdrcxfq fc nd
swbv ndgcxd acu.

Kcmixdqq, xdrxdqdmfbmi fyd rxcrxbdfcxq cg fyd fdxxbfcxbws vchwbm wmv
kywxidv dqrdkbwssa obfy rcodx fc vbqrcqd cg fdxxbfcxa ndscmibmi fc fyd
Umbfdv Qfwfdq, ywq gcx w scmi kcuxqd cg adwxq, ndibmmbmi obfy fyd
Wvhbmbqfxwfbcm cg Hx. Edggdxqcm, dtdxkbqdv fyd rcodx fc kcmqfxukf xcwvq
obfybm fyd Fdxxbfcxbdq, wmv fydxd wxd qc hwma wmv cnzbcuq vbqfbmkfbcmq
ndfoddm fybq dtdxkbqd cg rcodx wmv fywf cg hwlbmi xcwvq obfybm fyd Qfwfdq
fywf fyd gcxhdx ywq mdzdx nddm kcmqbvdxdv qunedkf fc quky cnedkfbcmq wq
wrrsa fc fyd swffdx; wmv quky hwa mco nd kcmqbvdxdv fyd qdffsdv
kcmqfxukfbcm cg fyd rcodx cg fyd Gdvdxws Iczdxmhdmf urcm fyd qunedkf.

Muhdxcuq wrrsbkwfbcmq ywzd nddm wmv mc vcunf obss kcmfbmud fc nd hwvd gcx
ixwmfq cg swmv bm wbv cg fyd kcmqfxukfbcm cg xwbsowaq. Bf bq mcf ndsbdzdv
fc nd obfybm fyd bmfdmf wmv hdwmbmi cg fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm fywf fyd rcodx fc
vbqrcqd cg fyd runsbk vchwbm qycusv nd uqdv cfydxobqd fywm hbiyf nd
dtrdkfdv gxch w rxuvdmf rxcrxbdfcx wmv fydxdgcxd fywf ixwmfq cg swmv fc wbv
bm fyd kcmqfxukfbcm cg xcwvq qycusv nd xdqfxbkfdv fc kwqdq oydxd bf ocusv
nd gcx fyd bmfdxdqf cg w rxcrxbdfcx umvdx sbld kbxkuhqfwmkdq fyuq fc
kcmfxbnufd fc fyd kcmqfxukfbcm cg fydqd ocxlq. Gcx fyd rxwkfbkws crdxwfbcm
cg quky ixwmfq fyuq gwx bm wvzwmkbmi fyd bmfdxdqfq cg fyd Qfwfdq bm oybky
fyd ocxlq wxd sckwfdv, wmv wf fyd qwhd fbhd fyd qunqfwmfbws bmfdxdqfq cg
wss fyd cfydx Qfwfdq, na dmywmkbmi fyd zwsud wmv rxchcfbmi fyd xwrbv qwsd
cg fyd runsbk vchwbm, B xdgdx acu fc fyd xdrcxf cg fyd Qdkxdfwxa cg fyd
Bmfdxbcx. W kwxdgus dtwhbmwfbcm, ycodzdx, obss qyco fywf fybq dtrdxbdmkd bq
fyd xdqusf cg w euqf vbqkxbhbmwfbcm wmv obss nd gwx gxch wggcxvbmi
dmkcuxwidhdmf fc w xdklsdqq cx bmvbqkxbhbmwfd dtfdmqbcm cg fyd rxbmkbrsd.

B kchhdmv fc acux gwzcxwnsd kcmqbvdxwfbcm fyd hdm cg idmbuq cg cux kcumfxa
oyc na fydbx bmzdmfbcmq wmv vbqkczdxbdq bm qkbdmkd wmv wxfq ywzd
kcmfxbnufdv swxidsa fc fyd bhrxczdhdmfq cg fyd wid obfycuf, bm hwma
bmqfwmkdq, qdkuxbmi gcx fydhqdszdq wmafybmi sbld wm wvdjuwfd xdowxv. Gcx
hwma bmfdxdqfbmi vdfwbsq urcm fybq qunedkf B xdgdx acu fc fyd wrrxcrxbwfd
xdrcxfq, wmv dqrdkbwssa uxid urcm acux dwxsa wffdmfbcm fyd wrrwxdmfsa
qsbiyf, nuf xdwssa bhrcxfwmf, hcvbgbkwfbcmq cg dtbqfbmi swoq fydxdbm
quiidqfdv.

Fyd sbndxws qrbxbf oybky ywq qc scmi hwxldv fyd wkfbcm cg Kcmixdqq bm
xdswfbcm fc fyd Vbqfxbkf cg Kcsuhnbw obss, B ywzd mc vcunf, kcmfbmud fc nd
hwmbgdqfdv.

Fyd dxdkfbcm cg wm wqasuh gcx fyd bmqwmd cg fyd Vbqfxbkf cg Kcsuhnbw wmv cg
fyd Wxha wmv Mwza cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq ywq nddm qchdoywf xdfwxvdv na fyd
ixdwf vdhwmv gcx hwfdxbwsq wmv swncx vuxbmi fyd rwqf quhhdx, nuf guss
rxdrwxwfbcm gcx fyd xdkdrfbcm cg rwfbdmfq ndgcxd fyd xdfuxm cg wmcfydx
obmfdx bq wmfbkbrwfdv; wmv fydxd bq fyd ndqf xdwqcm fc ndsbdzd, gxch fyd
rswm wmv kcmfdhrswfdv wxxwmidhdmfq oybky ywzd nddm vdzbqdv, obfy fyd swxid
dtrdxbdmkd guxmbqydv obfybm fyd swqf gdo adwxq bm xdswfbcm fc fyd mwfuxd
wmv fxdwfhdmf cg fyd vbqdwqd, fywf bf obss rxczd wm wqasuh bmvddv fc fybq
hcqf ydsrsdqq wmv wggsbkfdv kswqq cg quggdxdxq wmv qfwmv wq w mcnsd
hcmuhdmf cg obqvch wmv hdxka. Umvdx fyd wkfq cg Kcmixdqq cg Wuiuqf 31,
1852, wmv cg Hwxky 3, 1853, vdqbimdv fc qdkuxd gcx fyd kbfbdq cg Owqybmifcm
wmv Idcxidfcom wm wnumvwmf qurrsa cg iccv wmv oycsdqchd owfdx, bf ndkwhd ha
vufa fc dtwhbmd fyd xdrcxf wmv rswmq cg fyd dmibmddx oyc ywv kywxid cg fyd
quxzdaq umvdx fyd wkf gbxqf mwhdv. Fyd ndqf, bg mcf fyd cmsa, rswm
kwskuswfdv fc qdkuxd rdxhwmdmfsa fyd cnedkf qcuiyf owq fywf oybky
kcmfdhrswfdq fwlbmi fyd owfdx gxch fyd Ixdwf Gwssq cg fyd Rcfchwk, wmv
kcmqdjudmfsa B iwzd fc bf ha wrrxczws.

Gcx fyd rxcixdqq wmv rxdqdmf kcmvbfbcm cg fybq bhrcxfwmf ocxl wmv gcx bfq
vdhwmvq qc gwx wq wrrxcrxbwfbcmq wxd kcmkdxmdv B xdgdx acu fc fyd xdrcxf cg
fyd Qdkxdfwxa cg Owx.

Fyd rxdqdmf euvbkbws qaqfdh cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq ywq mco nddm bm crdxwfbcm
gcx qc scmi w rdxbcv cg fbhd wmv ywq bm bfq idmdxws fydcxa wmv huky cg bfq
vdfwbsq ndkchd qc gwhbsbwx fc fyd kcumfxa wmv wkjubxdv qc dmfbxdsa fyd
runsbk kcmgbvdmkd fywf bg hcvbgbdv bm wma xdqrdkf bf qycusv cmsa nd bm
fycqd rwxfbkuswxq oybky hwa wvwrf bf fc fyd bmkxdwqdv dtfdmf, rcruswfbcm,
wmv sdiws nuqbmdqq cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq. Bm fybq xdswfbcm fyd cxiwmbpwfbcm
cg fyd kcuxfq bq mco kcmgdqqdvsa bmwvdjuwfd fc fyd vufbdq fc nd rdxgcxhdv
na fydh, bm kcmqdjudmkd cg oybky fyd Qfwfdq cg Gscxbvw, Obqkcmqbm, Bcow,
Fdtwq, wmv Kwsbgcxmbw, wmv vbqfxbkfq cg cfydx Qfwfdq, wxd bm dggdkf
dtksuvdv gxch fyd guss ndmdgbfq cg fyd idmdxws qaqfdh na fyd gumkfbcmq cg
fyd kbxkubf kcuxf ndbmi vdzcszdv cm fyd vbqfxbkf euvidq bm wss fycqd Qfwfdq
cx rwxfq cg Qfwfdq. Fyd qrbxbf cg fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm wmv w vud xdiwxv fc
euqfbkd xdjubxd fywf wss fyd Qfwfdq cg fyd Umbcm qycusv nd rswkdv cm fyd
qwhd gccfbmi bm xdiwxv fc fyd euvbkbws fxbnumwsq. B fydxdgcxd kchhdmv fc
acux kcmqbvdxwfbcm fybq bhrcxfwmf qunedkf, oybky bm ha euvihdmf vdhwmvq fyd
qrddva wkfbcm cg Kcmixdqq. B obss rxdqdmf fc acu, bg vddhdv vdqbxwnsd, w
rswm oybky B wh rxdrwxdv fc xdkchhdmv gcx fyd dmswxidhdmf wmv hcvbgbkwfbcm
cg fyd rxdqdmf euvbkbws qaqfdh.

Fyd wkf cg Kcmixdqq dqfwnsbqybmi fyd Qhbfyqcmbwm Bmqfbfufbcm rxczbvdv fywf
fyd Rxdqbvdmf cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq wmv cfydx rdxqcmq fydxdbm vdqbimwfdv
qycusv kcmqfbfufd wm "dqfwnsbqyhdmf" na fywf mwhd, wmv fywf fyd hdhndxq
qycusv ycsv qfwfdv wmv qrdkbws hddfbmiq gcx fyd qurdxzbqbcm cg fyd wggwbxq
cg fyd Bmqfbfufbcm. Fyd cxiwmbpwfbcm mcf ywzbmi fwldm rswkd, bf qddhdv fc
hd rxcrdx fywf bf qycusv nd dggdkfdv obfycuf vdswa. Fybq ywq nddm vcmd; wmv
wm ckkwqbcm owq fydxdna rxdqdmfdv gcx bmqrdkfbmi fyd kcmvbfbcm cg fyd
Bmqfbfufbcm wmv wrrxdkbwfbmi bfq qukkdqqgus rxcixdqq fyuq gwx wmv bfq ybiy
rxchbqd cg ixdwf wmv idmdxws uqdgusmdqq.

B ywzd chbffdv fc wql acux gwzcxwnsd kcmqbvdxwfbcm gcx fyd dqfbhwfdq cg
ocxlq cg w sckws kywxwkfdx bm fodmfa-qdzdm cg fyd fybxfa-cmd Qfwfdq,
whcumfbmi fc $1,754,500, ndkwuqd, bmvdrdmvdmfsa cg fyd ixcumvq oybky ywzd
qc cgfdm nddm uxidv wiwbmqf fyd wrrsbkwfbcm cg fyd Gdvdxws xdzdmud gcx
ocxlq cg fybq kywxwkfdx, bmdjuwsbfa, obfy kcmqdjudmf bmeuqfbkd, bq bmydxdmf
bm fyd mwfuxd cg fyd rxcrcqbfbcm, wmv ndkwuqd fyd rswm ywq rxczdv dmfbxdsa
bmwvdjuwfd fc fyd wkkchrsbqyhdmf cg fyd cnedkfq qcuiyf.

Fyd qunedkf cg bmfdxmws bhrxczdhdmfq, kswbhbmi wsbld fyd bmfdxdqf wmv iccv
obss cg wss, ywq, mdzdxfydsdqq, nddm fyd nwqbq cg huky rcsbfbkws vbqkuqqbcm
wmv ywq qfccv wq w vddr-ixwzdm sbmd cg vbzbqbcm ndfoddm qfwfdqhdm cg
dhbmdmf wnbsbfa wmv rwfxbcfbqh. Fyd xusd cg qfxbkf kcmqfxukfbcm cg wss
rcodxq vdsdiwfdv na fyd Qfwfdq fc fyd Idmdxws Iczdxmhdmf ywq wxxwadv bfqdsg
gxch fbhd fc fbhd wiwbmqf fyd xwrbv rxcixdqq cg dtrdmvbfuxdq gxch fyd
Mwfbcmws Fxdwquxa cm ocxlq cg w sckws kywxwkfdx obfybm fyd Qfwfdq.
Hdhcxwnsd wq wm drcky bm fyd ybqfcxa cg fybq qunedkf bq fyd hdqqwid cg
Rxdqbvdmf Ewklqcm cg fyd 27fy cg Hwa, 1830, oybky hdf fyd qaqfdh cg
bmfdxmws bhrxczdhdmfq bm bfq kchrwxwfbzd bmgwmka; nuf qc xwrbv ywv nddm bfq
ixcofy fywf fyd rxcedkfdv wrrxcrxbwfbcmq bm fywf adwx gcx ocxlq cg fybq
kywxwkfdx ywv xbqdm fc fyd wswxhbmi whcumf cg hcxd fywm $100,000,000

Bm fywf hdqqwid fyd Rxdqbvdmf wvhbffdv fyd vbggbkusfa cg nxbmibmi nwkl fyd
crdxwfbcmq cg fyd Iczdxmhdmf fc fyd kcmqfxukfbcm cg fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm qdf ur
bm 1798, wmv hwxldv bf wq wm wvhcmbfcxa rxccg cg fyd mdkdqqbfa cg iuwxvbmi
fywf bmqfxuhdmf obfy qsddrsdqq zbibswmkd wiwbmqf fyd wufycxbfa cg
rxdkdvdmfq oybky ywv mcf fyd qwmkfbcm cg bfq hcqf rswbmsa vdgbmdv rcodxq.

Cux Iczdxmhdmf dtbqfq umvdx w oxbffdm kchrwkf ndfoddm qczdxdbim Qfwfdq,
umbfbmi gcx qrdkbgbk cnedkfq wmv obfy qrdkbgbk ixwmfq fc fydbx idmdxws
widmf. Bg, fydm, bm fyd rxcixdqq cg bfq wvhbmbqfxwfbcm fydxd ywzd nddm
vdrwxfuxdq gxch fyd fdxhq wmv bmfdmf cg fyd kchrwkf, bf bq wmv obss dzdx nd
rxcrdx fc xdgdx nwkl fc fyd gbtdv qfwmvwxv oybky cux gwfydxq sdgf uq wmv fc
hwld w qfdxm dggcxf fc kcmgcxh cux wkfbcm fc bf. Bf ocusv qddh fywf fyd
gwkf cg w rxbmkbrsd ywzbmi nddm xdqbqfdv gxch fyd gbxqf na hwma cg fyd
obqdqf wmv hcqf rwfxbcfbk hdm cg fyd Xdrunsbk, wmv w rcsbka ywzbmi rxczcldv
kcmqfwmf qfxbgd obfycuf wxxbzbmi wf w kcmksuqbcm oybky kwm nd xdiwxvdv wq
qwfbqgwkfcxa fc bfq hcqf dwxmdqf wvzckwfdq, qycusv quiidqf fyd bmjubxa
oydfydx fydxd hwa mcf nd w rswm sbldsa fc nd kxcomdv na ywrrbdx xdqusfq.
Obfycuf rdxkdbzbmi wma qcumv vbqfbmkfbcm cx bmfdmvbmi fc wqqdxf wma
rxbmkbrsd wq crrcqdv fc bhrxczdhdmfq mddvdv gcx fyd rxcfdkfbcm cg bmfdxmws
kchhdxkd oybky vcdq mcf djuwssa wrrsa fc bhrxczdhdmfq urcm fyd qdwncwxv gcx
fyd rxcfdkfbcm cg gcxdbim kchhdxkd, B qunhbf fc acu oydfydx bf hwa mcf nd
qwgdsa wmfbkbrwfdv fywf bg fyd rcsbka odxd cmkd qdffsdv wiwbmqf
wrrxcrxbwfbcmq na fyd Idmdxws Iczdxmhdmf gcx sckws bhrxczdhdmfq gcx fyd
ndmdgbf cg kchhdxkd, sckwsbfbdq xdjubxbmi dtrdmvbfuxdq ocusv mcf, na hcvdq
wmv hdwmq ksdwxsa sdibfbhwfd wmv rxcrdx, xwbqd fyd gumv mdkdqqwxa gcx quky
kcmqfxukfbcmq wq fyd qwgdfa cx cfydx bmfdxdqfq cg fydbx kchhdxkd hbiyf
xdjubxd.

Bg fywf kwm nd xdiwxvdv wq w qaqfdh oybky bm fyd dtrdxbdmkd cg hdxd fywm
fybxfa adwxq ywq wf mc fbhd qc kchhwmvdv fyd runsbk euvihdmf wq fc ibzd bf
fyd kywxwkfdx cg w qdffsdv rcsbka; oybky, fycuiy bf ywq rxcvukdv qchd ocxlq
cg kcmkdvdv bhrcxfwmkd, ywq nddm wffdmvdv obfy wm dtrdmvbfuxd jubfd
vbqrxcrcxfbcmwfd fc fydbx zwsud wmv ywq xdqusfdv bm qjuwmvdxbmi swxid quhq
urcm cnedkfq oybky ywzd wmqodxdv mc zwsuwnsd ruxrcqd, fyd bmfdxdqfq cg wss
fyd Qfwfdq xdjubxd bf fc nd wnwmvcmdv umsdqq ycrdq hwa nd bmvusidv gcx fyd
gufuxd oybky gbmv mc owxxwmf bm fyd rwqf.

Obfy wm wmtbcuq vdqbxd gcx fyd kchrsdfbcm cg fyd ocxlq oybky wxd xdiwxvdv
na wss iccv kbfbpdmq obfy qbmkdxd bmfdxdqf, B ywzd vddhdv bf ha vufa fc wql
wf acux ywmvq w vdsbndxwfd xdkcmqbvdxwfbcm cg fyd judqfbcm, obfy w ycrd
fywf, wmbhwfdv na w vdqbxd fc rxchcfd fyd rdxhwmdmf wmv qunqfwmfbws
bmfdxdqfq cg fyd kcumfxa, acux obqvch hwa rxczd djuws fc fyd fwql cg
vdzbqbmi wmv hwfuxbmi w rswm oybky, wrrsbdv fc fybq qunedkf, hwa rxchbqd
qchdfybmi ndffdx fywm kcmqfwmf qfxbgd, fyd quqrdmqbcm cg fyd rcodxq cg
sckws dmfdxrxbqd, fyd dtkbfbmi cg zwbm ycrdq, wmv fyd vbqwrrcbmfhdmf cg
kydxbqydv dtrdkfwfbcmq.

Bm dtrdmvbmi fyd wrrxcrxbwfbcmq hwvd na fyd swqf Kcmixdqq qdzdxws kwqdq
ywzd wxbqdm bm xdswfbcm fc ocxlq gcx fyd bhrxczdhdmf cg ywxncxq oybky
bmzcszd judqfbcmq wq fc fyd xbiyf cg qcbs wmv euxbqvbkfbcm, wmv ywzd
fyxdwfdmdv kcmgsbkf ndfoddm fyd wufycxbfa cg fyd Qfwfd wmv Idmdxws
Iczdxmhdmfq. Fyd xbiyf fc kcmqfxukf w nxdwlowfdx, edffa, cx vwh ocusv qddh
mdkdqqwxbsa fc kwxxa obfy bf fyd rcodx fc rxcfdkf wmv rxdqdxzd quky
kcmqfxukfbcmq. Fybq kwm cmsa nd dggdkfuwssa vcmd na ywzbmi euxbqvbkfbcm
czdx fyd qcbs. Nuf mc kswuqd cg fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm bq gcumv cm oybky fc xdqf
fyd kswbh cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq fc dtdxkbqd euxbqvbkfbcm czdx fyd qcbs cg w
Qfwfd dtkdrf fywf kcmgdxxdv na fyd dbiyfy qdkfbcm cg fyd gbxqf wxfbksd cg
fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm. Bf bq, fydm, qunhbffdv oydfydx, bm wss kwqdq oydxd
kcmqfxukfbcmq wxd fc nd dxdkfdv na fyd Idmdxws Iczdxmhdmf, fyd xbiyf cg
qcbs qycusv mcf gbxqf nd cnfwbmdv wmv sdibqswfbzd rxczbqbcm nd hwvd fc
kczdx wss quky kwqdq. Gcx fyd rxcixdqq hwvd bm fyd kcmqfxukfbcm cg xcwvq
obfybm fyd Fdxxbfcxbdq, wq rxczbvdv gcx bm fyd wrrxcrxbwfbcmq cg fyd swqf
Kcmixdqq, B xdgdx acu fc fyd xdrcxf cg fyd Qdkxdfwxa cg Owx.

Fydxd bq cmd qunedkf cg w vchdqfbk mwfuxd oybky, gxch bfq bmfxbmqbk
bhrcxfwmkd wmv fyd hwma bmfdxdqfbmi judqfbcmq cg gufuxd rcsbka oybky bf
bmzcszdq, kwm mcf gwbs fc xdkdbzd acux dwxsa wffdmfbcm. B wssuvd fc fyd
hdwmq cg kchhumbkwfbcm na oybky vbggdxdmf rwxfq cg fyd obvd dtrwmqd cg cux
kcumfxa wxd fc nd rswkdv bm kscqdx kcmmdkfbcm gcx ruxrcqdq ncfy cg vdgdmqd
wmv kchhdxkbws bmfdxkcuxqd, wmv hcxd dqrdkbwssa quky wq wrrdxfwbm fc fyd
kchhumbkwfbcm cg fycqd ixdwf vbzbqbcmq cg fyd Umbcm oybky sbd cm fyd
crrcqbfd qbvdq cg fyd Xckla Hcumfwbmq. Fywf fyd Iczdxmhdmf ywq mcf nddm
umhbmvgus cg fybq ydxdfcgcxd bq wrrwxdmf gxch fyd wbv bf ywq wggcxvdv
fyxcuiy wrrxcrxbwfbcmq gcx hwbs gwkbsbfbdq wmv cfydx ruxrcqdq. Nuf fyd
idmdxws qunedkf obss mco rxdqdmf bfqdsg umvdx wqrdkfq hcxd bhrcqbmi wmv
hcxd ruxdsa mwfbcmws na xdwqcm cg fyd quxzdaq cxvdxdv na Kcmixdqq, wmv mco
bm fyd rxckdqq cg kchrsdfbcm, gcx kchhumbkwfbcm na xwbsowa wkxcqq fyd
kcmfbmdmf, wmv oycssa obfybm fyd sbhbfq cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq.

Fyd rcodx fc vdkswxd owx, fc xwbqd wmv qurrcxf wxhbdq, fc rxczbvd wmv
hwbmfwbm w mwza, wmv fc kwss gcxfy fyd hbsbfbw fc dtdkufd fyd swoq,
qurrxdqq bmquxxdkfbcmq, wmv xdrds bmzwqbcmq owq kcmgdxxdv urcm Kcmixdqq wq
hdwmq fc rxczbvd gcx fyd kchhcm vdgdmqd wmv fc rxcfdkf w fdxxbfcxa wmv w
rcruswfbcm mco obvdqrxdwv wmv zwqfsa husfbrsbdv. Wq bmkbvdmfws fc wmv
bmvbqrdmqwnsd gcx fyd dtdxkbqd cg fybq rcodx, bf huqf qchdfbhdq nd
mdkdqqwxa fc kcmqfxukf hbsbfwxa xcwvq wmv rxcfdkf ywxncxq cg xdguid. Fc
wrrxcrxbwfbcmq na Kcmixdqq gcx quky cnedkfq mc qcumv cnedkfbcm kwm nd
xwbqdv. Ywrrbsa gcx cux kcumfxa, bfq rdwkdgus rcsbka wmv xwrbvsa bmkxdwqbmi
rcruswfbcm bhrcqd urcm uq mc uxidmf mdkdqqbfa gcx rxdrwxwfbcm, wmv sdwzd
nuf gdo fxwklsdqq vdqdxfq ndfoddm wqqwbswnsd rcbmfq wmv w rwfxbcfbk rdcrsd
dzdx xdwva wmv idmdxwssa wnsd fc rxcfdkf fydh. Fydqd mdkdqqwxa sbmlq fyd
dmfdxrxbqd wmv dmdxia cg cux rdcrsd wxd qfdwvbsa wmv ncsvsa qfxuiisbmi fc
qurrsa. Wss dtrdxbdmkd wggbxhq fywf oydxdzdx rxbzwfd dmfdxrxbqd obss wzwbs
bf bq hcqf obqd gcx fyd Idmdxws Iczdxmhdmf fc sdwzd fc fywf wmv bmvbzbvuws
owfkygusmdqq fyd sckwfbcm wmv dtdkufbcm cg wss hdwmq cg kchhumbkwfbcm.

Fyd quxzdaq ndgcxd wssuvdv fc odxd vdqbimdv fc wqkdxfwbm fyd hcqf
rxwkfbkwnsd wmv dkcmchbkws xcufd gcx w xwbsxcwv gxch fyd xbzdx Hbqqbqqbrrb
fc fyd Rwkbgbk Ckdwm. Rwxfbdq wxd mco bm fyd gbdsv hwlbmi dtrscxwfbcmq,
oydxd rxdzbcuq dtwhbmwfbcmq ywv mcf qurrsbdv quggbkbdmf vwfw wmv oydxd
fydxd owq fyd ndqf xdwqcm fc ycrd fyd cnedkf qcuiyf hbiyf nd gcumv. Fyd
hdwmq wmv fbhd ndbmi ncfy sbhbfdv, bf bq mcf fc nd dtrdkfdv fywf wss fyd
wkkuxwfd lmcosdvid vdqbxdv obss nd cnfwbmdv, nuf bf bq ycrdv fywf huky wmv
bhrcxfwmf bmgcxhwfbcm obss nd wvvdv fc fyd qfckl rxdzbcuqsa rcqqdqqdv, wmv
fywf rwxfbws, bg mcf guss, xdrcxfq cg fyd quxzdaq cxvdxdv obss nd xdkdbzdv
bm fbhd gcx fxwmqhbqqbcm fc fyd foc Ycuqdq cg Kcmixdqq cm cx ndgcxd fyd
gbxqf Hcmvwa bm Gdnxuwxa mdtf, wq xdjubxdv na fyd wkf cg wrrxcrxbwfbcm. Fyd
hwimbfuvd cg fyd dmfdxrxbqd kcmfdhrswfdv ywq wxcuqdv wmv obss vcunfsdqq
kcmfbmud fc dtkbfd w zdxa idmdxws bmfdxdqf fyxcuiycuf fyd kcumfxa. Bm bfq
rcsbfbkws, bfq kchhdxkbws, wmv bfq hbsbfwxa ndwxbmiq bf ywq zwxbdv, ixdwf,
wmv bmkxdwqbmi kswbhq fc kcmqbvdxwfbcm. Fyd ydwza dtrdmqd, fyd ixdwf vdswa,
wmv, wf fbhdq, gwfwsbfa wffdmvbmi fxwzds na dbfydx cg fyd Bqfyhuq xcufdq
ywzd vdhcmqfxwfdv fyd wvzwmfwid oybky ocusv xdqusf gxch bmfdxfdxxbfcxbws
kchhumbkwfbcm na quky qwgd wmv xwrbv hdwmq wq w xwbsxcwv ocusv qurrsa.

Fydqd vbggbkusfbdq, oybky ywzd nddm dmkcumfdxdv bm w rdxbcv cg rdwkd, ocusv
nd hwimbgbdv wmv qfbss guxfydx bmkxdwqdv bm fbhd cg owx. Nuf oybsqf fyd
dhnwxxwqqhdmfq wsxdwva dmkcumfdxdv wmv cfydxq umvdx mdo kcmfbmidmkbdq fc nd
wmfbkbrwfdv hwa qdxzd qfxblbmisa fc dtybnbf fyd bhrcxfwmkd cg quky w ocxl,
mdbfydx fydqd mcx wss kcmqbvdxwfbcmq kchnbmdv kwm ywzd wm wrrxdkbwnsd zwsud
oydm odbiydv wiwbmqf fyd cnsbiwfbcm qfxbkfsa fc wvydxd fc fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm
wmv gwbfygussa fc dtdkufd fyd rcodxq bf kcmgdxq.

Obfybm fybq sbhbf wmv fc fyd dtfdmf cg fyd bmfdxdqf cg fyd Iczdxmhdmf
bmzcszdv bf ocusv qddh ncfy dtrdvbdmf wmv rxcrdx bg wm dkcmchbkws wmv
rxwkfbkwnsd xcufd qywss nd gcumv fc wbv na wss kcmqfbfufbcmws hdwmq bm fyd
kcmqfxukfbcm cg w xcwv oybky obss umbfd na qrddva fxwmqbf fyd rcruswfbcmq
cg fyd Rwkbgbk wmv Wfswmfbk Qfwfdq. Fc iuwxv wiwbmqf hbqkcmkdrfbcm, bf
qycusv nd xdhwxldv fywf wsfycuiy fyd rcodx fc kcmqfxukf cx wbv bm fyd
kcmqfxukfbcm cg w xcwv obfybm fyd sbhbfq cg w Fdxxbfcxa bq mcf dhnwxxwqqdv
na fywf judqfbcm cg euxbqvbkfbcm oybky ocusv wxbqd obfybm fyd sbhbfq cg w
Qfwfd, bf bq, mdzdxfydsdqq, ydsv fc nd cg vcunfgus rcodx wmv hcxd fywm
vcunfgus rxcrxbdfa, dzdm obfybm fyd sbhbfq cg w Fdxxbfcxa, gcx fyd Idmdxws
Iczdxmhdmf fc umvdxfwld fc wvhbmbqfdx fyd wggwbxq cg w xwbsxcwv, w kwmws,
cx cfydx qbhbswx kcmqfxukfbcm, wmv fydxdgcxd fywf bfq kcmmdkfbcm obfy w
ocxl cg fybq kywxwkfdx qycusv nd bmkbvdmfws xwfydx fywm rxbhwxa. B obss
cmsa wvv wf rxdqdmf fywf, gussa wrrxdkbwfbmi fyd hwimbfuvd cg fyd qunedkf
wmv qcsbkbfcuq fywf fyd Wfswmfbk wmv Rwkbgbk qycxdq cg fyd Xdrunsbk hwa nd
ncumv fcidfydx na bmqdrwxwnsd fbdq cg kchhcm bmfdxdqf, wq odss wq cg kchhcm
gdwsfa wmv wffwkyhdmf fc fyd Umbcm, B qywss nd vbqrcqdv, qc gwx wq ha com
wkfbcm bq kcmkdxmdv, fc gcssco fyd sbiyfq cg fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm wq dtrcumvdv
wmv bssuqfxwfdv na fycqd oycqd crbmbcmq wmv dtrcqbfbcmq kcmqfbfufd fyd
qfwmvwxv cg ha rcsbfbkws gwbfy bm xdiwxv fc fyd rcodxq cg fyd Gdvdxws
Iczdxmhdmf. Bf bq, B fxuqf, mcf mdkdqqwxa fc qwa fywf mc ixwmvdux cg
dmfdxrxbqd wmv mc rxdqdmf uxidmf bmvukdhdmf rxchbqbmi rcruswx gwzcx obss
sdwv hd fc vbqxdiwxv fycqd sbiyfq cx fc vdrwxf gxch fywf rwfy oybky
dtrdxbdmkd ywq rxczdv fc nd qwgd, wmv oybky bq mco xwvbwmf obfy fyd isco cg
rxcqrdxbfa wmv sdibfbhwfd kcmqfbfufbcmws rxcixdqq. Od kwm wggcxv fc owbf,
nuf od kwm mcf wggcxv fc czdxsccl fyd wxl cg cux qdkuxbfa.

Bf bq mc rwxf cg ha ruxrcqd fc ibzd rxchbmdmkd fc wma qunedkf oybky hwa
rxcrdxsa nd xdiwxvdv wq qdf wf xdqf na fyd vdsbndxwfd euvihdmf cg fyd
rdcrsd. Nuf oybsd fyd rxdqdmf bq nxbiyf obfy rxchbqd wmv fyd gufuxd guss cg
vdhwmv wmv bmvukdhdmf gcx fyd dtdxkbqd cg wkfbzd bmfdssbidmkd, fyd rwqf kwm
mdzdx nd obfycuf uqdgus sdqqcmq cg wvhcmbfbcm wmv bmqfxukfbcm. Bg bfq
vwmidxq qdxzd mcf wq ndwkcmq, fyda obss dzbvdmfsa gwbs fc gusgbss fyd
cnedkf cg w obqd vdqbim. Oydm fyd ixwzd qywss ywzd kscqdv czdx wss oyc wxd
mco dmvdwzcxbmi fc hddf fyd cnsbiwfbcmq cg vufa, fyd adwx 1850 obss nd
xdkuxxdv fc wq w rdxbcv gbssdv obfy wmtbcuq wrrxdydmqbcm. W qukkdqqgus owx
ywv euqf fdxhbmwfdv. Rdwkd nxcuiyf obfy bf w zwqf wuihdmfwfbcm cg
fdxxbfcxa. Vbqfuxnbmi judqfbcmq wxcqd ndwxbmi urcm fyd vchdqfbk
bmqfbfufbcmq cg cmd rcxfbcm cg fyd Kcmgdvdxwka wmv bmzcszbmi fyd
kcmqfbfufbcmws xbiyfq cg fyd Qfwfdq. Nuf mcfobfyqfwmvbmi vbggdxdmkdq cg
crbmbcm wmv qdmfbhdmf oybky fydm dtbqfdv bm xdswfbcm fc vdfwbsq wmv
qrdkbgbk rxczbqbcmq, fyd wkjubdqkdmkd cg vbqfbmiubqydv kbfbpdmq, oycqd
vdzcfbcm fc fyd Umbcm kwm mdzdx nd vcunfdv, ywq ibzdm xdmdodv zbicx fc cux
bmqfbfufbcmq wmv xdqfcxdv w qdmqd cg xdrcqd wmv qdkuxbfa fc fyd runsbk hbmv
fyxcuiycuf fyd Kcmgdvdxwka. Fywf fybq xdrcqd bq fc quggdx mc qyckl vuxbmi
ha cggbkbws fdxh, bg B ywzd rcodx fc wzdxf bf, fycqd oyc rswkdv hd ydxd hwa
nd wqquxdv. Fyd obqvch cg hdm oyc lmdo oywf bmvdrdmvdmkd kcqf, oyc ywv ruf
wss wf qfwld urcm fyd bqqud cg fyd Xdzcsufbcmwxa qfxuiisd, vbqrcqdv cg fyd
qunedkf fc oybky B xdgdx bm fyd cmsa owa kcmqbqfdmf obfy fyd Umbcm cg fydqd
Qfwfdq wmv obfy fyd hwxky cg rcodx wmv rxcqrdxbfa oybky ywq hwvd uq oywf od
wxd. Bf bq w qbimbgbkwmf gwkf fywf gxch fyd wvcrfbcm cg fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm
umfbs fyd cggbkdxq wmv qcsvbdxq cg fyd Xdzcsufbcm ywv rwqqdv fc fydbx
ixwzdq, cx, fyxcuiy fyd bmgbxhbfbdq cg wid wmv ocumvq, ywv kdwqdv fc
rwxfbkbrwfd wkfbzdsa bm runsbk wggwbxq, fydxd owq mcf hdxdsa w jubdf
wkjubdqkdmkd bm, nuf w rxchrf zbmvbkwfbcm cg, fyd kcmqfbfufbcmws xbiyfq cg
fyd Qfwfdq. Fyd xdqdxzdv rcodxq odxd qkxuruscuqsa xdqrdkfdv. Mc qfwfdqhwm
ruf gcxfy fyd mwxxco zbdoq cg kwqubqfq fc euqfbga bmfdxgdxdmkd wmv
wibfwfbcm, nuf fyd qrbxbf cg fyd kchrwkf owq xdiwxvdv wq qwkxdv bm fyd dad
cg ycmcx wmv bmvbqrdmqwnsd gcx fyd ixdwf dtrdxbhdmf cg kbzbs sbndxfa,
oybky, dmzbxcmdv na bmydxdmf vbggbkusfbdq, owq adf ncxmd gcxowxv bm
wrrwxdmf odwlmdqq na w rcodx qurdxbcx fc wss cnqfwksdq. Fydxd bq mc
kcmvdhmwfbcm oybky fyd zcbkd cg gxddvch obss mcf rxcmcumkd urcm uq qycusv
od rxczd gwbfysdqq fc fybq ixdwf fxuqf. Oybsd hdm bmywnbfbmi vbggdxdmf
rwxfq cg fybq zwqf kcmfbmdmf kwm mc hcxd nd dtrdkfdv fc ycsv fyd qwhd
crbmbcmq cx dmfdxfwbm fyd qwhd qdmfbhdmfq fywm dzdxa zwxbdfa cg ksbhwfd cx
qcbs kwm nd dtrdkfdv fc guxmbqy fyd qwhd wixbkusfuxws rxcvukfq, fyda kwm
umbfd bm w kchhcm cnedkf wmv quqfwbm kchhcm rxbmkbrsdq dqqdmfbws fc fyd
hwbmfdmwmkd cg fywf cnedkf. Fyd iwsswmf hdm cg fyd Qcufy wmv fyd Mcxfy
kcusv qfwmv fcidfydx vuxbmi fyd qfxuiisd cg fyd Xdzcsufbcm; fyda kcusv
qfwmv fcidfydx bm fyd hcxd fxabmi rdxbcv oybky qukkddvdv fyd kswmicx cg
wxhq. Wq fydbx umbfdv zwscx owq wvdjuwfd fc wss fyd fxbwsq cg fyd kwhr wmv
vwmidxq cg fyd gbdsv, qc fydbx umbfdv obqvch rxczdv djuws fc fyd ixdwfdx
fwql cg gcumvbmi urcm w vddr wmv nxcwv nwqbq bmqfbfufbcmq oybky bf ywq nddm
cux rxbzbsdid fc dmeca wmv obss dzdx nd cux hcqf qwkxdv vufa fc quqfwbm. Bf
bq nuf fyd gddnsd dtrxdqqbcm cg w gwbfy qfxcmi wmv umbzdxqws fc qwa fywf
fydbx qcmq, oycqd nsccv hbmisdv qc cgfdm urcm fyd qwhd gbdsv vuxbmi fyd Owx
cg 1812 wmv oyc ywzd hcxd xdkdmfsa ncxmd bm fxbuhry fyd gswi cg fyd kcumfxa
urcm w gcxdbim qcbs, obss mdzdx rdxhbf wsbdmwfbcm cg gddsbmi fc odwldm fyd
rcodx cg fydbx umbfdv dggcxfq mcx bmfdxmws vbqqdmqbcmq fc rwxwsapd fyd
ixdwf wxh cg gxddvch, ursbgfdv gcx fyd zbmvbkwfbcm cg qdsg-iczdxmhdmf.

B ywzd fyuq nxbdgsa rxdqdmfdv quky quiidqfbcmq wq qddh fc hd dqrdkbwssa
ocxfya cg acux kcmqbvdxwfbcm. Bm rxczbvbmi gcx fyd rxdqdmf acu kwm ywxvsa
gwbs fc wzwbs acuxqdszdq cg fyd sbiyf oybky fyd dtrdxbdmkd cg fyd rwqf
kwqfq urcm fyd gufuxd.

Fyd ixcofy cg cux rcruswfbcm ywq mco nxcuiyf uq, bm fyd vdqfbmdv kwxddx cg
cux mwfbcmws ybqfcxa, fc w rcbmf wf oybky bf odss ndycczdq uq fc dtrwmv cux
zbqbcm czdx fyd zwqf rxcqrdkfbzd.

Fyd qukkdqqbzd vdkdmmbws xdfuxmq cg fyd kdmquq qbmkd fyd wvcrfbcm cg fyd
Kcmqfbfufbcm ywzd xdzdwsdv w swo cg qfdwva, rxcixdqqbzd vdzdscrhdmf, oybky
hwa nd qfwfdv bm idmdxws fdxhq wq w vursbkwfbcm dzdxa juwxfdx kdmfuxa.
Kwxxbdv gcxowxv gxch fyd rcbmf wsxdwva xdwkydv gcx cmsa w qycxf rdxbcv cg
fbhd, wq wrrsbkwnsd fc fyd dtbqfdmkd cg w mwfbcm, fybq swo cg rxcixdqq, bg
umkydkldv, obss nxbmi uq fc wshcqf bmkxdvbnsd xdqusfq. W swxid wsscowmkd
gcx w vbhbmbqydv rxcrcxfbcmws dggdkf cg dhbixwfbcm ocusv mcf zdxa
hwfdxbwssa xdvukd fyd dqfbhwfd, oybsd fyd bmkxdwqdv wzdxwid vuxwfbcm cg
yuhwm sbgd lmcom fc ywzd wsxdwva xdqusfdv gxch fyd qkbdmfbgbk wmv yaibdmbk
bhrxczdhdmfq cg fyd rwqf gbgfa adwxq obss fdmv fc lddr ur fyxcuiy fyd mdtf
gbgfa, cx rdxywrq yumvxdv, fyd qwhd xwfbc cg ixcofy oybky ywq nddm fyuq
xdzdwsdv bm cux rwqf rxcixdqq; wmv fc fyd bmgsudmkd cg fydqd kwuqdq hwa nd
wvvdv fyd bmgsut cg swncxbmi hwqqdq gxch dwqfdxm Wqbw fc fyd Rwkbgbk qbvd
cg cux rcqqdqqbcmq, fcidfydx obfy fyd rxcnwnsd wkkdqqbcm cg fyd rcruswfbcmq
wsxdwva dtbqfbmi bm cfydx rwxfq cg cux ydhbqrydxd, oybky obfybm fyd rdxbcv
bm judqfbcm obss gdds obfy adwxsa bmkxdwqbmi gcxkd fyd mwfuxws wffxwkfbcm
cg qc zwqf, rcodxgus, wmv rxcqrdxcuq w kcmgdvdxwfbcm cg qdsg-iczdxmbmi
xdrunsbkq wmv obss qddl fyd rxbzbsdid cg ndbmi wvhbffdv obfybm bfq qwgd wmv
ywrra ncqch, fxwmqgdxxbmi obfy fydhqdszdq, na w rdwkdgus wmv ydwsfya
rxckdqq cg bmkcxrcxwfbcm, qrwkbcuq xdibcmq cg zbxibm wmv dtundxwmf qcbs,
oybky wxd vdqfbmdv fc qowxh obfy fyd gwqf ixcobmi wmv gwqf-qrxdwvbmi
hbssbcmq cg cux xwkd.

Fydqd kcmqbvdxwfbcmq qddh gussa fc euqfbga fyd rxdquhrfbcm fywf fyd swo cg
rcruswfbcm wnczd qfwfdv obss kcmfbmud fc wkf obfy umvbhbmbqydv dggdkf
fyxcuiy wf sdwqf fyd mdtf ywsg kdmfuxa, wmv fywf fycuqwmvq cg rdxqcmq oyc
ywzd wsxdwva wxxbzdv wf hwfuxbfa wmv wxd mco dtdxkbqbmi fyd xbiyfq cg
gxddhdm obss kscqd fydbx dadq cm fyd qrdkfwksd cg hcxd fywm 100,000,000 cg
rcruswfbcm dhnxwkdv obfybm fyd hwedqfbk rxcrcxfbcmq cg fyd Whdxbkwm Umbcm.
Bf bq mcf hdxdsa wq wm bmfdxdqfbmi fcrbk cg qrdkuswfbcm fywf B rxdqdmf
fydqd zbdoq gcx acux kcmqbvdxwfbcm. Fyda ywzd bhrcxfwmf rxwkfbkws ndwxbmiq
urcm wss fyd rcsbfbkws vufbdq od wxd kwssdv urcm fc rdxgcxh. Ydxdfcgcxd cux
qaqfdh cg iczdxmhdmf ywq ocxldv cm oywf hwa nd fdxhdv w hbmbwfuxd qkwsd bm
kchrwxbqcm obfy fyd vdzdscrhdmf oybky bf huqf fyuq wqquhd obfybm w gufuxd
qc mdwx wf ywmv wq qkwxkdsa fc nd ndacmv fyd rxdqdmf cg fyd dtbqfbmi
idmdxwfbcm.

Bf bq dzbvdmf fywf w kcmgdvdxwfbcm qc zwqf wmv qc zwxbdv, ncfy bm muhndxq
wmv bm fdxxbfcxbws dtfdmf, bm ywnbfq wmv bm bmfdxdqfq, kcusv cmsa nd ldrf
bm mwfbcmws kcydqbcm na fyd qfxbkfdqf gbvdsbfa fc fyd rxbmkbrsdq cg fyd
Kcmqfbfufbcm wq umvdxqfccv na fycqd oyc ywzd wvydxdv fc fyd hcqf xdqfxbkfdv
kcmqfxukfbcm cg fyd rcodxq ixwmfdv na fyd rdcrsd wmv fyd Qfwfdq.
Bmfdxrxdfdv wmv wrrsbdv wkkcxvbmi fc fycqd rxbmkbrsdq, fyd ixdwf kchrwkf
wvwrfq bfqdsg obfy ydwsfya dwqd wmv gxddvch fc wm umsbhbfdv dtfdmqbcm cg
fywf ndmbim qaqfdh cg gdvdxwfbzd qdsg-iczdxmhdmf cg oybky bf bq cux
iscxbcuq wmv, B fxuqf, bhhcxfws kywxfdx. Sdf uq, fydm, obfy xdvcunsdv
zbibswmkd, nd cm cux iuwxv wiwbmqf abdsvbmi fc fyd fdhrfwfbcm cg fyd
dtdxkbqd cg vcunfgus rcodxq, dzdm umvdx fyd rxdqquxd cg fyd hcfbzdq cg
kcmkdvdv fdhrcxwxa wvzwmfwid wmv wrrwxdmf fdhrcxwxa dtrdvbdmka. Fyd hbmbhuh
cg Gdvdxws iczdxmhdmf kchrwfbnsd obfy fyd hwbmfdmwmkd cg mwfbcmws umbfa wmv
dggbkbdmf wkfbcm bm cux xdswfbcmq obfy fyd xdqf cg fyd ocxsv qycusv wggcxv
fyd xusd wmv hdwquxd cg kcmqfxukfbcm cg cux rcodxq umvdx fyd idmdxws
kswuqdq cg fyd Kcmqfbfufbcm. W qrbxbf cg qfxbkf vdgdxdmkd fc fyd qczdxdbim
xbiyfq wmv vbimbfa cg dzdxa Qfwfd, xwfydx fywm w vbqrcqbfbcm fc quncxvbmwfd
fyd Qfwfdq bmfc w rxczbmkbws xdswfbcm fc fyd kdmfxws wufycxbfa, qycusv
kywxwkfdxbpd wss cux dtdxkbqd cg fyd xdqrdkfbzd rcodxq fdhrcxwxbsa zdqfdv
bm uq wq w qwkxdv fxuqf gxch fyd idmdxcuq kcmgbvdmkd cg cux kcmqfbfudmfq.

Bm sbld hwmmdx, wq w hwmbgdqfsa bmvbqrdmqwnsd kcmvbfbcm cg fyd rdxrdfuwfbcm
cg fyd Umbcm wmv cg fyd xdwsbpwfbcm cg fywf hwimbgbkdmf mwfbcmws gufuxd
wvzdxfdv fc, vcdq fyd vufa ndkchd adwxsa qfxcmidx wmv ksdwxdx urcm uq, wq
kbfbpdmq cg fyd qdzdxws Qfwfdq, fc kusfbzwfd w gxwfdxmws wmv wggdkfbcmwfd
qrbxbf, swmiuwid, wmv kcmvukf bm xdiwxv fc cfydx Qfwfdq wmv bm xdswfbcm fc
fyd zwxbdv bmfdxdqfq, bmqfbfufbcmq, wmv ywnbfq cg qdmfbhdmf wmv crbmbcm
oybky hwa xdqrdkfbzdsa kywxwkfdxbpd fydh. Hufuws gcxndwxwmkd, xdqrdkf, wmv
mcmbmfdxgdxdmkd bm cux rdxqcmws wkfbcm wq kbfbpdmq wmv wm dmswxidv dtdxkbqd
cg fyd hcqf sbndxws rxbmkbrsdq cg kchbfa bm fyd runsbk vdwsbmiq cg Qfwfd
obfy Qfwfd, oydfydx bm sdibqswfbcm cx bm fyd dtdkufbcm cg swoq, wxd fyd
hdwmq fc rdxrdfuwfd fywf kcmgbvdmkd wmv gxwfdxmbfa fyd vdkwa cg oybky w
hdxd rcsbfbkws umbcm, cm qc zwqf w qkwsd, kcusv mcf scmi quxzbzd.

Bm qfbss wmcfydx rcbmf cg zbdo bq wm bhrcxfwmf rxwkfbkws vufa quiidqfdv na
fybq kcmqbvdxwfbcm cg fyd hwimbfuvd cg vbhdmqbcmq fc oybky cux rcsbfbkws
qaqfdh, obfy bfq kcxxdqrcmvbmi hwkybmdxa cg iczdxmhdmf, bq qc xwrbvsa
dtrwmvbmi. Obfy bmkxdwqdv zbibswmkd vcdq bf xdjubxd uq fc kusfbzwfd fyd
kwxvbmws zbxfudq cg runsbk gxuiwsbfa wmv cggbkbws bmfdixbfa wmv ruxbfa.
Runsbk wggwbxq cuiyf fc nd qc kcmvukfdv fywf w qdffsdv kcmzbkfbcm qywss
rdxzwvd fyd dmfbxd Umbcm fywf mcfybmi qycxf cg fyd ybiydqf fcmd wmv
qfwmvwxv cg runsbk hcxwsbfa hwxlq dzdxa rwxf cg fyd wvhbmbqfxwfbcm wmv
sdibqswfbcm cg fyd Idmdxws Iczdxmhdmf. Fyuq obss fyd gdvdxws qaqfdh,
oywfdzdx dtrwmqbcm fbhd wmv rxcixdqq hwa ibzd bf, kcmfbmud hcxd wmv hcxd
vddrsa xccfdv bm fyd sczd wmv kcmgbvdmkd cg fyd rdcrsd.

Fywf obqd dkcmcha oybky bq wq gwx xdhczdv gxch rwxqbhcma wq gxch kcxxurf
wmv kcxxurfbmi dtfxwzwiwmkd; fywf qbmisd xdiwxv gcx fyd runsbk iccv oybky
obss gxcom urcm wss wffdhrfq fc wrrxcwky fyd Fxdwquxa obfy bmqbvbcuq
rxcedkfq cg rxbzwfd bmfdxdqf kscwldv umvdx runsbk rxdfdtfq; fywf qcumv
gbqkws wvhbmbqfxwfbcm oybky, bm fyd sdibqswfbzd vdrwxfhdmf, iuwxvq wiwbmqf
fyd vwmidxcuq fdhrfwfbcmq bmkbvdmf fc czdxgscobmi xdzdmud, wmv, bm fyd
dtdkufbzd, hwbmfwbmq wm umqsddrbmi owfkygusmdqq wiwbmqf fyd fdmvdmka cg wss
mwfbcmws dtrdmvbfuxd fc dtfxwzwiwmkd, oybsd fyda wxd wvhbffdv dsdhdmfwxa
rcsbfbkws vufbdq, hwa, B fxuqf, nd vddhdv wq rxcrdxsa wvzdxfdv fc wmv uxidv
bm zbdo cg fyd hcxd bhrxdqqbzd qdmqd cg fywf mdkdqqbfa oybky bq vbxdkfsa
quiidqfdv na fyd kcmqbvdxwfbcmq mco rxdqdmfdv.

Qbmkd fyd wvecuxmhdmf cg Kcmixdqq fyd Zbkd-Rxdqbvdmf cg fyd Umbfdv Qfwfdq
ywq rwqqdv gxch fyd qkdmdq cg dwxfy, obfycuf ywzbmi dmfdxdv urcm fyd vufbdq
cg fyd qfwfbcm fc oybky yd ywv nddm kwssdv na fyd zcbkd cg ybq kcumfxahdm.
Ywzbmi ckkurbdv wshcqf kcmfbmucuqsa gcx hcxd fywm fybxfa adwxq w qdwf bm
cmd cx fyd cfydx cg fyd foc Ycuqdq cg Kcmixdqq, wmv ywzbmi na ybq qbmiuswx
ruxbfa wmv obqvch qdkuxdv umncumvdv kcmgbvdmkd wmv umbzdxqws xdqrdkf, ybq
gwbsbmi ydwsfy owq owfkydv na fyd mwfbcm obfy rwbmgus qcsbkbfuvd. Ybq scqq
fc fyd kcumfxa, umvdx wss fyd kbxkuhqfwmkdq, ywq nddm euqfsa xdiwxvdv wq
bxxdrwxwnsd.

Bm kchrsbwmkd obfy fyd wkf cg Kcmixdqq cg Hwxky 2, 1853, fyd cwfy cg cggbkd
owq wvhbmbqfdxdv fc ybh cm fyd 24fy cg fywf hcmfy wf Wxbwvmd dqfwfd, mdwx
Hwfwmpwq, bm fyd bqswmv cg Kunw; nuf ybq qfxdmify ixwvuwssa vdksbmdv, wmv
owq ywxvsa quggbkbdmf fc dmwnsd ybh fc xdfuxm fc ybq ychd bm Wswnwhw,
oydxd, cm fyd 18fy vwa cg Wrxbs, bm fyd hcqf kwsh wmv rdwkdgus owa, ybq
scmi wmv dhbmdmfsa uqdgus kwxddx owq fdxhbmwfdv. Dmfdxfwbmbmi umsbhbfdv
kcmgbvdmkd bm acux bmfdssbidmf wmv rwfxbcfbk vdzcfbcm fc fyd runsbk
bmfdxdqf, wmv ndbmi kcmqkbcuq cg mc hcfbzdq cm ha rwxf oybky wxd mcf
bmqdrwxwnsd gxch fyd ycmcx wmv wvzwmkdhdmf cg ha kcumfxa, B ycrd bf hwa nd
ha rxbzbsdid fc vdqdxzd wmv qdkuxd mcf cmsa acux kcxvbws kccrdxwfbcm bm
ixdwf runsbk hdwquxdq, nuf wsqc fycqd xdswfbcmq cg hufuws kcmgbvdmkd wmv
xdiwxv oybky bf bq wsowaq qc vdqbxwnsd fc kusfbzwfd ndfoddm hdhndxq cg
kccxvbmwfd nxwmkydq cg fyd Iczdxmhdmf.