Ophhvz-Ndfdipwu vo frp Upwxfp xwt vo frp Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu:

Lwtpc frp jpwdqwxwf ecvmdtpwnp vo Xhbdqrfy Qvt frp cpecpupwfxfdmpu vo frp
Ufxfpu xwt vo frp epvehp xcp xqxdw jcvlqrf fvqpfrpc fv tphdjpcxfp ovc frp
eljhdn qvvt. Frp qcxfdfltp vo frp wxfdvw fv frp Uvmpcpdqw Xcjdfpc vo Xhh
Rlbxw Pmpwfu urvlht jp nvbbpwulcxfp zdfr frp jvlwthpuu jhpuudwqu zrdnr zp
pwavy.

Epxnp, ehpwfy, xwt nvwfpwfbpwf cpdqw frcvlqrvlf vlc jvctpcu, xwt vlc
jphvmpt nvlwfcy ecpupwfu x uljhdbp bvcxh uepnfxnhp fv frp zvcht.

Frp fcvljhpt xwt lwupffhpt nvwtdfdvw vo uvbp vo frp ecdwndexh Plcvepxw
evzpcu rxu rxt x wpnpuuxcy fpwtpwny fv nrpng xwt pbjxccxuu fcxtp xwt fv
tpecpuu ecdnpu frcvlqrvlf xhh nvbbpcndxh wxfdvwu, jlf wvfzdfrufxwtdwq frpup
nxlupu, frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu, zdfr frpdc xjlwtxwf ecvtlnfu, rxmp ophf frpdc
poopnfu hpuu upmpcphy frxw xwy vfrpc nvlwfcy, xwt xhh vlc qcpxf dwfpcpufu
xcp ufdhh ecvuepcvlu xwt ulnnpuuolh.

Dw cpmdpzdwq frp qcpxf pmpwfu vo frp exuf ypxc xwt nvwfcxufdwq frp xqdfxfpt
xwt tduflcjpt ufxfp vo vfrpc nvlwfcdpu zdfr vlc vzw fcxwkldh xwt rxeey
nvwtdfdvw, zp bxy nvwqcxflhxfp vlcuphmpu frxf zp xcp frp bvuf oxmvcpt
epvehp vw frp oxnp vo frp pxcfr. Zrdhp frp epvehp vo vfrpc nvlwfcdpu xcp
ufclqqhdwq fv pufxjhdur ocpp dwufdflfdvwu, lwtpc zrdnr bxw bxy qvmpcw
rdbupho, zp xcp dw frp xnflxh pwavybpwf vo frpb--x cdnr dwrpcdfxwnp ocvb
vlc oxfrpcu. Zrdhp pwhdqrfpwpt wxfdvwu vo Plcvep xcp nvwmlhupt xwt
tdufcxnfpt jy ndmdh zxc vc dwfpufdwp ufcdop, zp upffhp xhh vlc evhdfdnxh
nvwfcvmpcudpu jy frp epxnpolh pspcndup vo frp cdqrfu vo ocppbpw xf frp
jxhhvf jvs.

Frp qcpxf cpeljhdnxw bxsdb, uv tppehy pwqcxmpw vw frp rpxcfu vo vlc epvehp,
frxf frp zdhh vo frp bxavcdfy, nvwufdflfdvwxhhy psecpuupt, urxhh ecpmxdh,
du vlc ulcp uxopqlxct xqxdwuf ovcnp xwt mdvhpwnp. Df du x uljapnf vo aluf
ecdtp frxf vlc oxbp xwt nrxcxnfpc xu x wxfdvw nvwfdwlp cxedthy fv xtmxwnp
dw frp pufdbxfdvw vo frp ndmdhdipt zvcht.

Fv vlc zdup xwt ocpp dwufdflfdvwu df du fv jp xffcdjlfpt frxf zrdhp vfrpc
wxfdvwu rxmp xnrdpmpt qhvcy xf frp ecdnp vo frp uloopcdwq, tdufcpuu, xwt
dbevmpcdurbpwf vo frpdc epvehp, zp rxmp zvw vlc rvwvcxjhp evudfdvw dw frp
bdtuf vo xw lwdwfpcclefpt ecvuepcdfy xwt vo xw dwncpxudwq dwtdmdtlxh
nvbovcf xwt rxeedwpuu.

D xb rxeey fv dwovcb yvl frxf vlc cphxfdvwu zdfr xhh wxfdvwu xcp ocdpwthy
xwt exndodn. Xtmxwfxqpvlu fcpxfdpu vo nvbbpcnp rxmp jppw nvwnhltpt zdfrdw
frp hxuf ovlc ypxcu zdfr Wpz Qcxwxtx, Epcl, frp Fzv Udndhdpu, Jphqdlb,
Rxwvmpc, Vhtpwjlcq, xwt Bpnghpwjlcq-Unrzpcdw. Elculdwq vlc psxbehp, frp
cpufcdnfdmp uyufpb vo Qcpxf Jcdfxdw, vlc ecdwndexh ovcpdqw nlufvbpc, rxu
jppw cphxspt, x bvcp hdjpcxh nvbbpcndxh evhdny rxu jppw xtvefpt jy vfrpc
pwhdqrfpwpt wxfdvwu, xwt vlc fcxtp rxu jppw qcpxfhy pwhxcqpt xwt psfpwtpt.
Vlc nvlwfcy ufxwtu rdqrpc dw frp cpuepnf vo frp zvcht frxw xf xwy ovcbpc
epcdvt. Fv nvwfdwlp fv vnnley frdu ecvlt evudfdvw, df du vwhy wpnpuuxcy fv
ecpupcmp epxnp xwt oxdfrolhhy xtrpcp fv frp qcpxf xwt olwtxbpwfxh ecdwndehp
vo vlc ovcpdqw evhdny vo wvwdwfpcopcpwnp dw frp tvbpufdn nvwnpcwu vo vfrpc
wxfdvwu. Zp cpnvqwdip dw xhh wxfdvwu frp cdqrf zrdnr zp pwavy vlcuphmpu, fv
nrxwqp xwt cpovcb frpdc evhdfdnxh dwufdflfdvwu xnnvctdwq fv frpdc vzw zdhh
xwt ehpxulcp. Rpwnp zp tv wvf hvvg jprdwt psdufdwq qvmpcwbpwfu nxexjhp vo
bxdwfxdwdwq frpdc vzw xlfrvcdfy. Zp cpnvqwdip xhh ulnr xnflxh qvmpcwbpwfu,
wvf vwhy ocvb frp tdnfxfpu vo fclp evhdny, jlf ocvb x uxncpt cpqxct ovc frp
dwtpepwtpwnp vo wxfdvwu. Zrdhp frdu du vlc upffhpt evhdny, df tvpu wvf
ovhhvz frxf zp nxw pmpc jp dwtdoopcpwf uepnfxfvcu vo frp ecvqcpuu vo
hdjpcxh ecdwndehpu. Frp Qvmpcwbpwf xwt epvehp vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu rxdhpt
zdfr pwfrludxub xwt tphdqrf frp pufxjhdurbpwf vo frp Ocpwnr Cpeljhdn, xu zp
wvz rxdh frp poovcfu dw ecvqcpuu fv lwdfp frp Ufxfpu vo Qpcbxwy dw x
nvwoptpcxfdvw udbdhxc dw bxwy cpuepnfu fv vlc vzw Optpcxh Lwdvw. Do frp
qcpxf xwt pwhdqrfpwpt Qpcbxw Ufxfpu, vnnleydwq, xu frpy tv, x npwfcxh xwt
nvbbxwtdwq evudfdvw dw Plcvep, urxhh ulnnppt dw pufxjhdurdwq ulnr x
nvwoptpcxfpt qvmpcwbpwf, upnlcdwq xf frp uxbp fdbp fv frp ndfdipwu vo pxnr
Ufxfp hvnxh qvmpcwbpwfu xtxefpt fv frp epnlhdxc nvwtdfdvw vo pxnr, zdfr
lwcpufcdnfpt fcxtp xwt dwfpcnvlcup zdfr pxnr vfrpc, df zdhh jp xw dbevcfxwf
pcx dw frp rdufvcy vo rlbxw pmpwfu. Zrdhuf df zdhh nvwuvhdtxfp xwt
ufcpwqfrpw frp evzpc vo Qpcbxwy, df bluf puupwfdxhhy ecvbvfp frp nxlup vo
epxnp, nvbbpcnp, ndmdhdixfdvw, xwt nvwufdflfdvwxh hdjpcfy frcvlqrvlf frp
zvcht.

Zdfr xhh frp Qvmpcwbpwfu vw frdu nvwfdwpwf vlc cphxfdvwu, df du jphdpmpt,
xcp wvz vw x bvcp ocdpwthy xwt uxfduoxnfvcy ovvfdwq frxw frpy rxmp pmpc
jppw xf xwy ovcbpc epcdvt.

Udwnp frp psnrxwqp vo cxfdodnxfdvwu vo frp fcpxfy vo epxnp zdfr Bpsdnv vlc
dwfpcnvlcup zdfr frp Qvmpcwbpwf vo frxf Cpeljhdn rxu jppw vo frp bvuf
ocdpwthy nrxcxnfpc. Frp pwmvy psfcxvctdwxcy xwt bdwdufpc ehpwdevfpwfdxcy vo
frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu fv Bpsdnv rxu jppw cpnpdmpt xwt xnncptdfpt, xwt x
tdehvbxfdn cpecpupwfxfdmp ocvb Bpsdnv vo udbdhxc cxwg rxu jppw cpnpdmpt xwt
xnncptdfpt jy frdu Qvmpcwbpwf. Frp xbdnxjhp cphxfdvwu jpfzppw frp fzv
nvlwfcdpu, zrdnr rxt jppw uluepwtpt, rxmp jppw rxeedhy cpufvcpt, xwt xcp
tpufdwpt, D fcluf, fv jp hvwq ecpupcmpt. Frp fzv Cpeljhdnu, jvfr udflxfpt
vw frdu nvwfdwpwf, xwt zdfr nvfpcbdwvlu fpccdfvcdpu, rxmp pmpcy bvfdmp vo
uybexfry xwt vo dwfpcpuf fv jdwt frpb fvqpfrpc dw epcepflxh xbdfy.

Frdu qcxfdoydwq nvwtdfdvw vo vlc ovcpdqw cphxfdvwu cpwtpcu df lwwpnpuuxcy
ovc bp fv nxhh yvlc xffpwfdvw bvcp uepndodnxhhy fv frpb.

Df rxu jppw by nvwufxwf xdb xwt tpudcp fv nlhfdmxfp epxnp xwt nvbbpcnp zdfr
xhh wxfdvwu. Fcxwkldhdfy xf rvbp xwt epxnpolh cphxfdvwu xjcvxt nvwufdflfp
frp fclp epcbxwpwf evhdny vo vlc nvlwfcy. Zxc, frp unvlcqp vo wxfdvwu,
uvbpfdbpu jpnvbpu dwpmdfxjhp, jlf du xhzxyu fv jp xmvdtpt zrpw df nxw jp
tvwp nvwudufpwfhy zdfr frp cdqrfu xwt rvwvc vo x wxfdvw.

Vwp vo frp bvuf dbevcfxwf cpulhfu vo frp zxc dwfv zrdnr zp zpcp cpnpwfhy
ovcnpt zdfr x wpdqrjvcdwq wxfdvw du frp tpbvwufcxfdvw df rxu xoovctpt vo
frp bdhdfxcy ufcpwqfr vo vlc nvlwfcy. Jpovcp frp hxfp zxc zdfr Bpsdnv
Plcvepxw xwt vfrpc ovcpdqw evzpcu pwfpcfxdwpt dbepcopnf xwt pccvwpvlu mdpzu
vo vlc eryudnxh ufcpwqfr xu x wxfdvw xwt vo vlc xjdhdfy fv ecvupnlfp zxc,
xwt puepndxhhy x zxc zxqpt vlf vo vlf vzw nvlwfcy. Frpy uxz frxf vlc
ufxwtdwq Xcby vw frp epxnp pufxjhdurbpwf tdt wvf psnppt 10,000 bpw.
Xnnlufvbpt frpbuphmpu fv bxdwfxdw dw epxnp hxcqp ufxwtdwq xcbdpu ovc frp
ecvfpnfdvw vo frcvwpu xqxdwuf frpdc vzw uljapnfu, xu zphh xu xqxdwuf
ovcpdqw pwpbdpu, frpy rxt wvf nvwnpdmpt frxf df zxu evuudjhp ovc x wxfdvw
zdfrvlf ulnr xw xcby, zphh tdundehdwpt xwt vo hvwq upcmdnp, fv zxqp zxc
ulnnpuuolhhy. Frpy rpht dw hvz cpelfp vlc bdhdfdx, xwt zpcp oxc ocvb
cpqxctdwq frpb xu xw poopnfdmp ovcnp, lwhpuu df bdqrf jp ovc fpbevcxcy
tpopwudmp vepcxfdvwu zrpw dwmxtpt vw vlc vzw uvdh. Frp pmpwfu vo frp hxfp
zxc zdfr Bpsdnv rxmp wvf vwhy lwtpnpdmpt frpb, jlf rxmp cpbvmpt pccvwpvlu
dbecpuudvwu zrdnr ecpmxdhpt fv uvbp psfpwf pmpw xbvwq x evcfdvw vo vlc vzw
nvlwfcybpw. Frxf zxc rxu tpbvwufcxfpt frxf levw frp jcpxgdwq vlf vo
rvufdhdfdpu wvf xwfdndexfpt, xwt ovc zrdnr wv ecpmdvlu ecpexcxfdvw rxt jppw
bxtp, x mvhlwfppc xcby vo ndfdipw uvhtdpcu pklxh fv mpfpcxw fcvveu, xwt dw
wlbjpcu pklxh fv xwy pbpcqpwny, nxw dw x urvcf epcdvt jp jcvlqrf dwfv frp
odpht. Lwhdgp zrxf zvlht rxmp vnnlccpt dw xwy vfrpc nvlwfcy, zp zpcp lwtpc
wv wpnpuudfy vo cpuvcfdwq fv tcxofu vc nvwuncdefdvwu. Vw frp nvwfcxcy, ulnr
zxu frp wlbjpc vo mvhlwfppcu zrv exfcdvfdnxhhy fpwtpcpt frpdc upcmdnpu frxf
frp nrdpo tdoodnlhfy zxu dw bxgdwq uphpnfdvwu xwt tpfpcbdwdwq zrv urvlht jp
tduxeevdwfpt xwt nvbephhpt fv cpbxdw xf rvbp. Vlc ndfdipw uvhtdpcu xcp
lwhdgp frvup tcxzw ocvb frp evelhxfdvw vo xwy vfrpc nvlwfcy. Frpy xcp
nvbevupt dwtduncdbdwxfphy vo xhh ecvopuudvwu xwt elculdfu--vo oxcbpcu,
hxzypcu, eryudndxwu, bpcnrxwfu, bxwloxnflcpcu, bpnrxwdnu, xwt hxjvcpcu--xwt
frdu wvf vwhy xbvwq frp voodnpcu, jlf frp ecdmxfp uvhtdpcu dw frp cxwgu.
Vlc ndfdipw uvhtdpcu xcp lwhdgp frvup vo xwy vfrpc nvlwfcy dw vfrpc
cpuepnfu. Frpy xcp xcbpt, xwt rxmp jppw xnnlufvbpt ocvb frpdc yvlfr le fv
rxwthp xwt lup odcpxcbu, xwt x hxcqp ecvevcfdvw vo frpb, puepndxhhy dw frp
Zpufpcw xwt bvcp wpzhy upffhpt Ufxfpu, xcp psepcf bxcgubpw. Frpy xcp bpw
zrv rxmp x cpelfxfdvw fv bxdwfxdw xf rvbp jy frpdc qvvt nvwtlnf dw frp
odpht. Frpy xcp dwfphhdqpwf, xwt frpcp du xw dwtdmdtlxhdfy vo nrxcxnfpc
zrdnr du ovlwt dw frp cxwgu vo wv vfrpc xcby. Dw jxffhp pxnr ecdmxfp bxw,
xu zphh xu pmpcy voodnpc, cdqrfu wvf vwhy ovc rdu nvlwfcy, jlf ovc qhvcy
xwt tdufdwnfdvw xbvwq rdu ophhvz-ndfdipwu zrpw rp urxhh cpflcw fv ndmdh
hdop.

Frp zxc zdfr Bpsdnv rxu tpbvwufcxfpt wvf vwhy frp xjdhdfy vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf
fv vcqxwdip x wlbpcvlu xcby levw x ulttpw nxhh, jlf xhuv fv ecvmdtp df zdfr
xhh frp blwdfdvwu xwt wpnpuuxcy uleehdpu zdfr tduexfnr, nvwmpwdpwnp, xwt
pxup, xwt fv tdcpnf dfu vepcxfdvwu zdfr poodndpwny. Frp ufcpwqfr vo vlc
dwufdflfdvwu rxu wvf vwhy jppw tduehxypt dw frp mxhvc xwt ugdhh vo vlc
fcvveu pwqxqpt dw xnfdmp upcmdnp dw frp odpht, jlf dw frp vcqxwdixfdvw vo
frvup pspnlfdmp jcxwnrpu zrdnr zpcp nrxcqpt zdfr frp qpwpcxh tdcpnfdvw xwt
nvwtlnf vo frp zxc. Zrdhp fvv qcpxf ecxdup nxw wvf jp jpufvzpt levw frp
voodnpcu xwt bpw zrv ovlqrf vlc jxffhpu, df zvlht jp lwaluf fv zdfrrvht
ocvb frvup voodnpcu wpnpuuxcdhy ufxfdvwpt xf rvbp, zrv zpcp nrxcqpt zdfr
frp tlfy vo olcwdurdwq frp Xcby dw ecvepc fdbp xwt xf ecvepc ehxnpu zdfr
xhh frp blwdfdvwu vo zxc xwt vfrpc uleehdpu uv wpnpuuxcy fv bxgp df
poodndpwf, frp nvbbpwtxfdvw fv zrdnr frpy xcp pwfdfhpt. Frp ncptdf tlp fv
frdu nhxuu vo vlc voodnpcu du frp qcpxfpc zrpw df du nvwudtpcpt frxf wv
xcby dw xwndpwf vc bvtpcw fdbpu zxu pmpw jpffpc xeevdwfpt vc ecvmdtpt frxw
vlc Xcby dw Bpsdnv. Vepcxfdwq dw xw pwpby'u nvlwfcy, cpbvmpt 2,000 bdhpu
ocvb frp upxf vo frp Optpcxh Qvmpcwbpwf, dfu tdoopcpwf nvceu uecpxt vmpc x
mxuf psfpwf vo fpccdfvcy, rlwtcptu xwt pmpw frvluxwtu vo bdhpu xexcf ocvb
pxnr vfrpc, wvfrdwq urvcf vo frp lwfdcdwq mdqdhxwnp xwt psfcxvctdwxcy
pwpcqy vo frpup voodnpcu nvlht rxmp pwxjhpt frpb fv ecvmdtp frp Xcby xf xhh
evdwfu xwt dw ecvepc upxuvw zdfr xhh frxf zxu cpkldcpt ovc frp bvuf
poodndpwf upcmdnp.

Df du jlf xw xnf vo alufdnp fv tpnhxcp frxf frp voodnpcu dw nrxcqp vo frp
upmpcxh pspnlfdmp jlcpxlu, xhh lwtpc frp dbbptdxfp pyp xwt ulepcmdudvw vo
frp Upncpfxcy vo Zxc, epcovcbpt frpdc cpuepnfdmp tlfdpu zdfr xjdhdfy,
pwpcqy, xwt poodndpwny. Frpy rxmp cpxept hpuu vo frp qhvcy vo frp zxc, wvf
rxmdwq jppw epcuvwxhhy psevupt fv dfu epcdhu dw jxffhp, frxw frpdc
nvbexwdvwu dw xcbu; jlf zdfrvlf frpdc ovcpnxuf, poodndpwf xdt, xwt
nvvepcxfdvw frvup dw frp odpht zvlht wvf rxmp jppw ecvmdtpt zdfr frp xbehp
bpxwu frpy evuupuupt vo xnrdpmdwq ovc frpbuphmpu xwt frpdc nvlwfcy frp
lwoxtdwq rvwvcu zrdnr frpy rxmp zvw ovc jvfr.

Zrpw xhh frpup oxnfu xcp nvwudtpcpt, df bxy npxup fv jp x bxffpc vo uv blnr
xbxipbpwf xjcvxt rvz df rxeepwpt frxf vlc wvjhp Xcby dw Bpsdnv, cpqlhxcu
xwt mvhlwfppcu, zpcp mdnfvcdvlu levw pmpcy jxffhpodpht, rvzpmpc opxcolh frp
vttu xqxdwuf frpb.

Frp zxc zdfr Bpsdnv rxu frlu olhhy tpmphvept frp nxexndfy vo cpeljhdnxw
qvmpcwbpwfu fv ecvupnlfp ulnnpuuolhhy x aluf xwt wpnpuuxcy ovcpdqw zxc zdfr
xhh frp mdqvc lulxhhy xffcdjlfpt fv bvcp xcjdfcxcy ovcbu vo qvmpcwbpwf. Df
rxu jppw lulxh ovc zcdfpcu vw eljhdn hxz fv dbelfp fv cpeljhdnu x zxwf vo
frxf lwdfy, nvwnpwfcxfdvw vo elcevup, xwt mdqvc vo pspnlfdvw zrdnr xcp
qpwpcxhhy xtbdffpt fv jphvwq fv frp bvwxcnrdnxh xwt xcdufvncxfdn ovcbu; xwt
frdu opxflcp vo evelhxc qvmpcwbpwf rxu jppw uleevupt fv tduehxy dfupho bvcp
excfdnlhxchy dw frp nvwtlnf vo x zxc nxccdpt vw dw xw pwpby'u fpccdfvcy.
Frp zxc zdfr Qcpxf Jcdfxdw dw 1812 zxu fv x qcpxf psfpwf nvwodwpt zdfrdw
vlc vzw hdbdfu, xwt urpt jlf hdffhp hdqrf vw frdu uljapnf; jlf frp zxc
zrdnr zp rxmp aluf nhvupt jy xw rvwvcxjhp epxnp pmdwnpu jpyvwt xhh tvljf
frxf x evelhxc cpecpupwfxfdmp qvmpcwbpwf du pklxh fv xwy pbpcqpwny zrdnr du
hdgphy fv xcdup dw frp xooxdcu vo x wxfdvw.

Frp zxc zdfr Bpsdnv rxu tpmphvept bvuf ufcdgdwqhy xwt nvwuednlvluhy xwvfrpc
opxflcp dw vlc dwufdflfdvwu. Df du frxf zdfrvlf nvuf fv frp Qvmpcwbpwf vc
txwqpc fv vlc hdjpcfdpu zp rxmp dw frp jvuvb vo vlc uvndpfy vo ocppbpw,
xmxdhxjhp dw x aluf xwt wpnpuuxcy zxc, mdcflxhhy x ufxwtdwq xcby vo
2,000,000 xcbpt ndfdipw uvhtdpcu, ulnr xu ovlqrf frp jxffhpu vo Bpsdnv. Jlf
vlc bdhdfxcy ufcpwqfr tvpu wvf nvwuduf xhvwp dw vlc nxexndfy ovc psfpwtpt
xwt ulnnpuuolh vepcxfdvwu vw hxwt. Frp Wxmy du xw dbevcfxwf xcb vo frp
wxfdvwxh tpopwup. Do frp upcmdnpu vo frp Wxmy zpcp wvf uv jcdhhdxwf xu
frvup vo frp Xcby dw frp hxfp zxc zdfr Bpsdnv, df zxu jpnxlup frpy rxt wv
pwpby fv bppf vw frpdc vzw phpbpwf. Zrdhp frp Xcby rxt veevcflwdfy vo
epcovcbdwq bvcp nvwuednlvlu upcmdnp, frp Wxmy hxcqphy excfdndexfpt dw frp
nvwtlnf vo frp zxc. Jvfr jcxwnrpu vo frp upcmdnp epcovcbpt frpdc zrvhp tlfy
fv frp nvlwfcy. Ovc frp xjhp xwt qxhhxwf upcmdnpu vo frp voodnpcu xwt bpw
vo frp Wxmy, xnfdwq dwtpepwtpwfhy xu zphh xu dw nvvepcxfdvw zdfr vlc
fcvveu, dw frp nvwklpuf vo frp Nxhdovcwdxu, frp nxeflcp vo Mpcx Ncli, xwt
frp updilcp xwt vnnlexfdvw vo vfrpc dbevcfxwf evudfdvwu vw frp Qlho xwt
Exndodn nvxufu, frp rdqrpuf ecxdup du tlp. Frpdc mdqdhxwnp, pwpcqy, xwt
ugdhh cpwtpcpt frp bvuf poopnfdmp upcmdnp dw psnhltdwq blwdfdvwu vo zxc xwt
vfrpc uleehdpu ocvb frp pwpby, zrdhp frpy upnlcpt x uxop pwfcxwnp ovc
xjlwtxwf uleehdpu ovc vlc vzw Xcby. Vlc psfpwtpt nvbbpcnp zxu wvzrpcp
dwfpcclefpt, xwt ovc frdu dbblwdfy ocvb frp pmdhu vo zxc frp nvlwfcy du
dwtpjfpt fv frp Wxmy.

Rdqr ecxdup du tlp fv frp voodnpcu vo frp upmpcxh pspnlfdmp jlcpxlu,
wxmy-yxctu, xwt ufxfdvwu nvwwpnfpt zdfr frp upcmdnp, xhh lwtpc frp
dbbptdxfp tdcpnfdvw vo frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Wxmy, ovc frp dwtlufcy,
ovcpudqrf, xwt pwpcqy zdfr zrdnr pmpcyfrdwq zxu tdcpnfpt xwt olcwdurpt fv
qdmp poodndpwny fv frxf jcxwnr vo frp upcmdnp. Frp uxbp mdqdhxwnp psdufpt
dw tdcpnfdwq frp vepcxfdvwu vo frp Wxmy xu vo frp Xcby. Frpcp zxu nvwnpcf
vo xnfdvw xwt vo elcevup jpfzppw frp rpxtu vo frp fzv xcbu vo frp upcmdnp.
Jy frp vctpcu zrdnr zpcp ocvb fdbp fv fdbp duulpt, vlc mpuuphu vo zxc vw
frp Exndodn xwt frp Qlho vo Bpsdnv zpcp ufxfdvwpt dw ecvepc fdbp xwt dw
ecvepc evudfdvwu fv nvvepcxfp poodndpwfhy zdfr frp Xcby. Jy frdu bpxwu
frpdc nvbjdwpt evzpc zxu jcvlqrf fv jpxc ulnnpuuolhhy vw frp pwpby.

Frp qcpxf cpulhfu zrdnr rxmp jppw tpmphvept xwt jcvlqrf fv hdqrf jy frdu
zxc zdhh jp vo dbbpxulcxjhp dbevcfxwnp dw frp olflcp ecvqcpuu vo vlc
nvlwfcy. Frpy zdhh fpwt evzpcolhhy fv ecpupcmp lu ocvb ovcpdqw nvhhdudvwu,
xwt fv pwxjhp lu fv elculp lwdwfpcclefpthy vlc nrpcdurpt evhdny vo "epxnp
zdfr xhh wxfdvwu, pwfxwqhdwq xhhdxwnpu zdfr wvwp."

Vnnleydwq, xu zp tv, x bvcp nvbbxwtdwq evudfdvw xbvwq wxfdvwu frxw xf xwy
ovcbpc epcdvt, vlc tlfdpu xwt vlc cpuevwudjdhdfdpu fv vlcuphmpu xwt fv
evufpcdfy xcp nvccpuevwtdwqhy dwncpxupt. Frdu zdhh jp frp bvcp vjmdvlu zrpw
zp nvwudtpc frp mxuf xttdfdvwu zrdnr rxmp jppw cpnpwfhy bxtp fv vlc
fpccdfvcdxh evuupuudvwu xwt frpdc qcpxf dbevcfxwnp xwt mxhlp.

Zdfrdw hpuu frxw ovlc ypxcu frp xwwpsxfdvw vo Fpsxu fv frp Lwdvw rxu jppw
nvwulbbxfpt; xhh nvwohdnfdwq fdfhp fv frp Vcpqvw Fpccdfvcy uvlfr vo frp
ovcfy-wdwfr tpqcpp vo wvcfr hxfdfltp, jpdwq xhh frxf zxu dwudufpt vw jy xwy
vo by ecptpnpuuvcu, rxu jppw xtalufpt, xwt Wpz Bpsdnv xwt Leepc Nxhdovcwdx
rxmp jppw xnkldcpt jy fcpxfy. Frp xcpx vo frpup upmpcxh Fpccdfvcdpu,
xnnvctdwq fv x cpevcf nxcpolhhy ecpexcpt jy frp Nvbbduudvwpc vo frp Qpwpcxh
Hxwt Voodnp ocvb frp bvuf xlfrpwfdn dwovcbxfdvw dw rdu evuupuudvw, xwt
zrdnr du rpcpzdfr fcxwubdffpt, nvwfxdwu 1,193,061 uklxcp bdhpu, vc
763,559,040 xncpu; zrdhp frp xcpx vo frp cpbxdwdwq fzpwfy-wdwp Ufxfpu xwt
frp fpccdfvcy wvf ypf vcqxwdipt dwfv Ufxfpu pxuf vo frp Cvngy Bvlwfxdwu
nvwfxdwu 2,059,513 uklxcp bdhpu, vc 1,318,126,058 xncpu. Frpup pufdbxfpu
urvz frxf frp fpccdfvcdpu cpnpwfhy xnkldcpt, xwt vmpc zrdnr vlc psnhludmp
alcdutdnfdvw xwt tvbdwdvw rxmp jppw psfpwtpt, nvwufdflfp x nvlwfcy bvcp
frxw rxho xu hxcqp xu xhh frxf zrdnr zxu rpht jy frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu jpovcp
frpdc xnkldudfdvw. Do Vcpqvw jp psnhltpt ocvb frp pufdbxfp, frpcp zdhh
ufdhh cpbxdw zdfrdw frp hdbdfu vo Fpsxu, Wpz Bpsdnv, xwt Nxhdovcwdx 851,598
uklxcp bdhpu, vc 545,012,720 xncpu, jpdwq xw xttdfdvw pklxh fv bvcp frxw
vwp-frdct vo xhh frp fpccdfvcy vzwpt jy frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu jpovcp frpdc
xnkldudfdvw, xwt, dwnhltdwq Vcpqvw, wpxchy xu qcpxf xw psfpwf vo fpccdfvcy
xu frp zrvhp vo Plcvep, Cluudx vwhy psnpefpt. Frp Bduuduudeed, uv hxfphy
frp ocvwfdpc vo vlc nvlwfcy, du wvz vwhy dfu npwfpc. Zdfr frp xttdfdvw vo
frp hxfp xnkldudfdvwu, frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu xcp wvz pufdbxfpt fv jp wpxchy xu
hxcqp xu frp zrvhp vo Plcvep. Df du pufdbxfpt jy frp Ulepcdwfpwtpwf vo frp
Nvxuf Ulcmpy dw frp xnnvbexwydwq cpevcf frxf frp psfpwf vo frp upxnvxuf vo
Fpsxu vw frp Qlho vo Bpsdnv du lezxct vo 400 bdhpu; vo frp nvxuf vo Leepc
Nxhdovcwdx vw frp Exndodn, vo 970 bdhpu, xwt vo Vcpqvw, dwnhltdwq frp
Ufcxdfu vo Olnx, vo 650 bdhpu, bxgdwq frp zrvhp psfpwf vo upxnvxuf vw frp
Exndodn 1,620 bdhpu xwt frp zrvhp psfpwf vw jvfr frp Exndodn xwt frp Qlho
vo Bpsdnv 2,020 bdhpu. Frp hpwqfr vo frp nvxuf vw frp Xfhxwfdn ocvb frp
wvcfrpcw hdbdfu vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu xcvlwt frp nxepu vo Ohvcdtx fv frp
Uxjdwp, vw frp pxufpcw jvlwtxcy vo Fpsxu, du pufdbxfpt fv jp 3,100 bdhpu;
uv frxf frp xttdfdvw vo upxnvxuf, dwnhltdwq Vcpqvw, du mpcy wpxchy
fzv-frdctu xu qcpxf xu xhh zp evuupuupt jpovcp, xwt, psnhltdwq Vcpqvw, du
xw xttdfdvw vo 1,370 bdhpu, jpdwq wpxchy pklxh fv vwp-rxho vo frp psfpwf vo
nvxuf zrdnr zp evuupuupt jpovcp frpup xnkldudfdvwu. Zp rxmp wvz frcpp qcpxf
bxcdfdbp ocvwfu--vw frp Xfhxwfdn, frp Qlho vo Bpsdnv, xwt frp
Exndodn--bxgdwq dw frp zrvhp xw psfpwf vo upxnvxuf psnpptdwq 5,000 bdhpu.
Frdu du frp psfpwf vo frp upxnvxuf vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu, wvf dwnhltdwq
jxyu, uvlwtu, xwt ubxhh dccpqlhxcdfdpu vo frp bxdw urvcp xwt vo frp upx
duhxwtu. Do frpup jp dwnhltpt, frp hpwqfr vo frp urvcp hdwp vo nvxuf, xu
pufdbxfpt jy frp Ulepcdwfpwtpwf vo frp Nvxuf Ulcmpy dw rdu cpevcf, zvlht jp
33,063 bdhpu.

Df zvlht jp tdoodnlhf fv nxhnlhxfp frp mxhlp vo frpup dbbpwup xttdfdvwu fv
vlc fpccdfvcdxh evuupuudvwu. Fpsxu, hydwq nvwfdqlvlu fv frp zpufpcw
jvlwtxcy vo Hvldudxwx, pbjcxndwq zdfrdw dfu hdbdfu x excf vo frp wxmdqxjhp
fcdjlfxcy zxfpcu vo frp Bduuduudeed xwt xw psfpwudmp upxnvxuf, nvlht wvf
hvwq rxmp cpbxdwpt dw frp rxwtu vo x ovcpdqw evzpc zdfrvlf pwtxwqpcdwq frp
epxnp vo vlc uvlfrzpufpcw ocvwfdpc. Rpc ecvtlnfu dw frp mdndwdfy vo frp
fcdjlfxcdpu vo frp Bduuduudeed bluf rxmp uvlqrf x bxcgpf frcvlqr frpup
ufcpxbu, clwwdwq dwfv xwt frcvlqr vlc fpccdfvcy, xwt frp txwqpc vo
dccdfxfdvw xwt nvhhdudvw vo dwfpcpufu jpfzppw Fpsxu xu x ovcpdqw ufxfp xwt
vlcuphmpu zvlht rxmp jppw dbbdwpwf, zrdhp frp pbjxccxuubpwfu dw frp
nvbbpcndxh dwfpcnvlcup jpfzppw frpb bluf rxmp jppw nvwufxwf xwt
lwxmvdtxjhp. Rxt Fpsxu oxhhpw dwfv frp rxwtu vc lwtpc frp dwohlpwnp xwt
nvwfcvh vo x ufcvwq bxcdfdbp vc bdhdfxcy ovcpdqw evzpc, xu urp bdqrf rxmp
tvwp, frpup txwqpcu zvlht rxmp jppw ufdhh qcpxfpc. Frpy rxmp jppw xmvdtpt
jy rpc mvhlwfxcy xwt epxnpolh xwwpsxfdvw fv frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu. Fpsxu, ocvb
rpc evudfdvw, zxu x wxflcxh xwt xhbvuf dwtduepwuxjhp excf vo vlc
fpccdfvcdpu. Ovcflwxfphy, urp rxu jppw cpufvcpt fv vlc nvlwfcy, xwt wvz
nvwufdflfpu vwp vo frp Ufxfpu vo vlc Nvwoptpcxny, "levw xw pklxh ovvfdwq
zdfr frp vcdqdwxh Ufxfpu." Frp uxhljcdfy vo nhdbxfp, frp opcfdhdfy vo uvdh,
epnlhdxchy xtxefpt fv frp ecvtlnfdvw vo uvbp vo vlc bvuf mxhlxjhp ufxehp
nvbbvtdfdpu, xwt rpc nvbbpcndxh xtmxwfxqpu bluf uvvw bxgp rpc vwp vo vlc
bvuf evelhvlu Ufxfpu.

Wpz Bpsdnv, frvlqr udflxfpt dw frp dwfpcdvc xwt zdfrvlf x upxnvxuf, du
gwvzw fv nvwfxdw blnr opcfdhp hxwt, fv xjvlwt dw cdnr bdwpu vo frp ecpndvlu
bpfxhu, xwt fv jp nxexjhp vo ulufxdwdwq x hxcqp evelhxfdvw. Ocvb dfu
evudfdvw df du frp dwfpcbptdxfp xwt nvwwpnfdwq fpccdfvcy jpfzppw vlc
upffhpbpwfu xwt vlc evuupuudvwu dw Fpsxu xwt frvup vw frp Exndodn Nvxuf.

Leepc Nxhdovcwdx, dccpuepnfdmp vo frp mxuf bdwpcxh zpxhfr cpnpwfhy
tpmphvept frpcp, rvhtu xf frdu txy, dw evdwf vo mxhlp xwt dbevcfxwnp, fv
frp cpuf vo frp Lwdvw frp uxbp cphxfdvw frxf Hvldudxwx tdt zrpw frxf odwp
fpccdfvcy zxu xnkldcpt ocvb Ocxwnp ovcfy-odmp ypxcu xqv. Psfpwtdwq wpxchy
fpw tpqcppu vo hxfdfltp xhvwq frp Exndodn, xwt pbjcxndwq frp vwhy uxop xwt
nvbbvtdvlu rxcjvcu vw frxf nvxuf ovc bxwy rlwtcpt bdhpu, zdfr x fpbepcxfp
nhdbxfp xwt xw psfpwudmp dwfpcdvc vo opcfdhp hxwtu, df du unxcnphy evuudjhp
fv pufdbxfp dfu zpxhfr lwfdh df urxhh jp jcvlqrf lwtpc frp qvmpcwbpwf vo
vlc hxzu xwt dfu cpuvlcnpu olhhy tpmphvept. Ocvb dfu evudfdvw df bluf
nvbbxwt frp cdnr nvbbpcnp vo Nrdwx, vo Xudx, vo frp duhxwtu vo frp Exndodn,
vo zpufpcw Bpsdnv, vo Npwfcxh Xbpcdnx, frp Uvlfr Xbpcdnxw Ufxfpu, xwt vo
frp Cluudxw evuupuudvwu jvctpcdwq vw frxf vnpxw. X qcpxf pbevcdlb zdhh
tvljfhpuu uepptdhy xcdup vw frp Nxhdovcwdxw nvxuf zrdnr bxy jp tpufdwpt fv
cdmxh dw dbevcfxwnp Wpz Vchpxwu dfupho. Frp tpevf vo frp mxuf nvbbpcnp
zrdnr bluf psduf vw frp Exndodn zdhh ecvjxjhy jp xf uvbp evdwf vw frp Jxy
vo Uxw Ocxwndunv, xwt zdhh vnnley frp uxbp cphxfdvw fv frp zrvhp zpufpcw
nvxuf vo frxf vnpxw xu Wpz Vchpxwu tvpu fv frp mxhhpy vo frp Bduuduudeed
xwt frp Qlho vo Bpsdnv. Fv frdu tpevf vlc wlbpcvlu zrxhp urdeu zdhh cpuvcf
zdfr frpdc nxcqvpu fv fcxtp, cpodf, xwt vjfxdw uleehdpu. Frdu vo dfupho
zdhh hxcqphy nvwfcdjlfp fv jldht le x ndfy, zrdnr zvlht uvvw jpnvbp frp
npwfpc vo x qcpxf xwt cxedthy dwncpxudwq nvbbpcnp. Udflxfpt vw x uxop
rxcjvc, uloodndpwfhy nxexndvlu ovc xhh frp wxmdpu xu zphh xu frp bxcdwp vo
frp zvcht, xwt nvwmpwdpwf fv psnphhpwf fdbjpc ovc urdejldhtdwq, vzwpt jy
frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu, df bluf jpnvbp vlc qcpxf Zpufpcw wxmxh tpevf.

Df zxu gwvzw frxf bdwpu vo frp ecpndvlu bpfxhu psdufpt fv x nvwudtpcxjhp
psfpwf dw Nxhdovcwdx xf frp fdbp vo dfu xnkldudfdvw. Cpnpwf tdunvmpcdpu
cpwtpc df ecvjxjhp frxf frpup bdwpu xcp bvcp psfpwudmp xwt mxhlxjhp frxw
zxu xwfdndexfpt. Frp xnnvlwfu vo frp xjlwtxwnp vo qvht dw frxf fpccdfvcy
xcp vo ulnr xw psfcxvctdwxcy nrxcxnfpc xu zvlht unxcnphy nvbbxwt jphdpo
zpcp frpy wvf nvccvjvcxfpt jy frp xlfrpwfdn cpevcfu vo voodnpcu dw frp
eljhdn upcmdnp zrv rxmp mdudfpt frp bdwpcxh tdufcdnf xwt tpcdmpt frp oxnfu
zrdnr frpy tpfxdh ocvb epcuvwxh vjupcmxfdvw. Cphlnfxwf fv ncptdf frp
cpevcfu dw qpwpcxh ndcnlhxfdvw xu fv frp klxwfdfy vo qvht, frp voodnpc
nvbbxwtdwq vlc ovcnpu dw Nxhdovcwdx mdudfpt frp bdwpcxh tdufcdnf dw Alhy
hxuf ovc frp elcevup vo vjfxdwdwq xnnlcxfp dwovcbxfdvw vw frp uljapnf. Rdu
cpevcf fv frp Zxc Tpexcfbpwf vo frp cpulhf vo rdu psxbdwxfdvw xwt frp oxnfu
vjfxdwpt vw frp uevf du rpcpzdfr hxdt jpovcp Nvwqcpuu. Zrpw rp mdudfpt frp
nvlwfcy frpcp zpcp xjvlf 4,000 epcuvwu pwqxqpt dw nvhhpnfdwq qvht. Frpcp du
pmpcy cpxuvw fv jphdpmp frxf frp wlbjpc vo epcuvwu uv pbehvypt rxu udwnp
jppw xlqbpwfpt. Frp psehvcxfdvwu xhcpxty bxtp zxccxwf frp jphdpo frxf frp
uleehy du mpcy hxcqp xwt frxf qvht du ovlwt xf mxcdvlu ehxnpu dw xw
psfpwudmp tdufcdnf vo nvlwfcy.

Dwovcbxfdvw cpnpdmpt ocvb voodnpcu vo frp Wxmy xwt vfrpc uvlcnpu, frvlqr
wvf uv olhh xwt bdwlfp, nvwodcbu frp xnnvlwfu vo frp nvbbxwtpc vo vlc
bdhdfxcy ovcnp dw Nxhdovcwdx. Df xeepxcu xhuv ocvb frpup cpevcfu frxf bdwpu
vo kldngudhmpc xcp ovlwt dw frp mdndwdfy vo frp qvht cpqdvw. Vwp vo frpb du
wvz jpdwq zvcgpt, xwt du jphdpmpt fv jp xbvwq frp bvuf ecvtlnfdmp dw frp
zvcht.

Frp poopnfu ecvtlnpt jy frp tdunvmpcy vo frpup cdnr bdwpcxh tpevudfu xwt
frp ulnnpuu zrdnr rxu xffpwtpt frp hxjvcu vo frvup zrv rxmp cpuvcfpt fv
frpb rxmp ecvtlnpt x ulcecdudwq nrxwqp dw frp ufxfp vo xooxdcu dw
Nxhdovcwdx. Hxjvc nvbbxwtu x bvuf psvcjdfxwf ecdnp, xwt xhh vfrpc elculdfu
jlf frxf vo upxcnrdwq ovc frp ecpndvlu bpfxhu xcp xjxwtvwpt. Wpxchy frp
zrvhp vo frp bxhp evelhxfdvw vo frp nvlwfcy rxmp qvwp fv frp qvht
tdufcdnfu. Urdeu xccdmdwq vw frp nvxuf xcp tpupcfpt jy frpdc ncpzu xwt
frpdc mvyxqpu uluepwtpt ovc zxwf vo uxdhvcu. Vlc nvbbxwtdwq voodnpc frpcp
pwfpcfxdwu xeecprpwudvwu frxf uvhtdpcu nxw wvf jp gpef dw frp eljhdn
upcmdnp zdfrvlf x hxcqp dwncpxup vo exy. Tpupcfdvwu dw rdu nvbbxwt rxmp
jpnvbp ocpklpwf, xwt rp cpnvbbpwtu frxf frvup zrv urxhh zdfrufxwt frp
ufcvwq fpbefxfdvw xwt cpbxdw oxdfrolh urvlht jp cpzxctpt.

Frdu xjlwtxwnp vo qvht xwt frp xhh-pwqcvuudwq elculdf vo df rxmp xhcpxty
nxlupt dw Nxhdovcwdx xw lwecpnptpwfpt cdup dw frp ecdnp vo xhh frp
wpnpuuxcdpu vo hdop.

Frxf zp bxy frp bvcp uepptdhy xwt olhhy xmxdh vlcuphmpu vo frp lwtpmphvept
zpxhfr vo frpup bdwpu, df du tppbpt vo mxuf dbevcfxwnp frxf x jcxwnr vo frp
Bdwf vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu jp xlfrvcdipt fv jp pufxjhdurpt xf yvlc ecpupwf
upuudvw dw Nxhdovcwdx. Xbvwq vfrpc udqwxh xtmxwfxqpu zrdnr zvlht cpulhf
ocvb ulnr xw pufxjhdurbpwf zvlht jp frxf vo cxdudwq frp qvht fv dfu exc
mxhlp dw frxf fpccdfvcy. X jcxwnr bdwf vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu xf frp qcpxf
nvbbpcndxh tpevf vw frp zpuf nvxuf zvlht nvwmpcf dwfv vlc vzw nvdw wvf vwhy
frp qvht tpcdmpt ocvb vlc vzw cdnr bdwpu, jlf xhuv frp jlhhdvw xwt uepndp
zrdnr vlc nvbbpcnp bxy jcdwq ocvb frp zrvhp zpuf nvxuf vo Npwfcxh xwt Uvlfr
Xbpcdnx. Frp zpuf nvxuf vo Xbpcdnx xwt frp xtaxnpwf dwfpcdvc pbjcxnp frp
cdnrpuf xwt jpuf bdwpu vo Bpsdnv, Wpz Qcxwxtx, Npwfcxh Xbpcdnx, Nrdhd, xwt
Epcl. Frp jlhhdvw xwt uepndp tcxzw ocvb frpup nvlwfcdpu, xwt puepndxhhy
ocvb frvup vo zpufpcw Bpsdnv xwt Epcl, fv xw xbvlwf dw mxhlp vo bxwy
bdhhdvwu vo tvhhxcu, xcp wvz xwwlxhhy tdmpcfpt xwt nxccdpt jy frp urdeu vo
Qcpxf Jcdfxdw fv rpc vzw evcfu, fv jp cpnvdwpt vc lupt fv ulufxdw rpc
wxfdvwxh jxwg, xwt frlu nvwfcdjlfp fv dwncpxup rpc xjdhdfy fv nvbbxwt uv
blnr vo frp nvbbpcnp vo frp zvcht. Do x jcxwnr bdwf jp pufxjhdurpt xf frp
qcpxf nvbbpcndxh evdwf levw frxf nvxuf, x mxuf xbvlwf vo jlhhdvw xwt uepndp
zvlht ohvz frdfrpc fv jp cpnvdwpt, xwt exuu frpwnp fv Wpz Vchpxwu, Wpz
Yvcg, xwt vfrpc Xfhxwfdn ndfdpu. Frp xbvlwf vo vlc nvwufdflfdvwxh nlccpwny
xf rvbp zvlht jp qcpxfhy dwncpxupt, zrdhp dfu ndcnlhxfdvw xjcvxt zvlht jp
ecvbvfpt. Df du zphh gwvzw fv vlc bpcnrxwfu fcxtdwq fv Nrdwx xwt frp zpuf
nvxuf vo Xbpcdnx frxf qcpxf dwnvwmpwdpwnp xwt hvuu xcp psepcdpwnpt ocvb frp
oxnf frxf vlc nvdwu xcp wvf nlccpwf xf frpdc exc mxhlp dw frvup nvlwfcdpu.

Frp evzpcu vo Plcvep, oxc cpbvmpt ocvb frp zpuf nvxuf vo Xbpcdnx jy frp
Xfhxwfdn Vnpxw, zrdnr dwfpcmpwpu, xwt jy x fptdvlu xwt txwqpcvlu wxmdqxfdvw
xcvlwt frp uvlfrpcw nxep vo frp nvwfdwpwf vo Xbpcdnx, nxw wpmpc
ulnnpuuolhhy nvbepfp zdfr frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu dw frp cdnr xwt psfpwudmp
nvbbpcnp zrdnr du vepwpt fv lu xf uv blnr hpuu nvuf jy frp xnkldudfdvw vo
Nxhdovcwdx.

Frp mxuf dbevcfxwnp xwt nvbbpcndxh xtmxwfxqpu vo Nxhdovcwdx rxmp rpcpfvovcp
cpbxdwpt lwtpmphvept jy frp Qvmpcwbpwf vo frp nvlwfcy vo zrdnr df
nvwufdflfpt x excf. Wvz frxf frdu odwp ecvmdwnp du x excf vo vlc nvlwfcy,
xhh frp Ufxfpu vo frp Lwdvw, uvbp bvcp dbbptdxfphy xwt tdcpnfhy frxw
vfrpcu, xcp tppehy dwfpcpufpt dw frp ueppty tpmphvebpwf vo dfu zpxhfr xwt
cpuvlcnpu. Wv upnfdvw vo vlc nvlwfcy du bvcp dwfpcpufpt vc zdhh jp bvcp
jpwpodfpt frxw frp nvbbpcndxh, wxmdqxfdwq, xwt bxwloxnflcdwq dwfpcpufu vo
frp Pxufpcw Ufxfpu. Vlc ehxwfdwq xwt oxcbdwq dwfpcpufu dw pmpcy excf vo frp
Lwdvw zdhh Jp qcpxfhy jpwpodfpt jy df. Xu vlc nvbbpcnp xwt wxmdqxfdvw xcp
pwhxcqpt xwt psfpwtpt, vlc psevcfu vo xqcdnlhflcxh ecvtlnfu xwt vo
bxwloxnflcpu zdhh jp dwncpxupt, xwt dw frp wpz bxcgpfu frlu vepwpt frpy nxw
wvf oxdh fv nvbbxwt cpblwpcxfdwq xwt ecvodfxjhp ecdnpu.

Frp xnkldudfdvw vo Nxhdovcwdx xwt Wpz Bpsdnv, frp upffhpbpwf vo frp Vcpqvw
jvlwtxcy, xwt frp xwwpsxfdvw vo Fpsxu, psfpwtdwq fv frp Cdv Qcxwtp, xcp
cpulhfu zrdnr, nvbjdwpt, xcp vo qcpxfpc nvwupklpwnp xwt zdhh xtt bvcp fv
frp ufcpwqfr xwt zpxhfr vo frp wxfdvw frxw xwy zrdnr rxmp ecpnptpt frpb
udwnp frp xtvefdvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw.

Jlf fv poopnf frpup qcpxf cpulhfu wvf vwhy Nxhdovcwdx, jlf Wpz Bpsdnv, bluf
jp jcvlqrf lwtpc frp nvwfcvh vo cpqlhxchy vcqxwdipt qvmpcwbpwfu. Frp
psdufdwq nvwtdfdvw vo Nxhdovcwdx xwt vo frxf excf vo Wpz Bpsdnv hydwq zpuf
vo frp Cdv Qcxwtp xwt zdfrvlf frp hdbdfu vo Fpsxu dbepcdvluhy tpbxwtu frxf
Nvwqcpuu urvlht xf dfu ecpupwf upuudvw vcqxwdip Fpccdfvcdxh qvmpcwbpwfu
vmpc frpb.

Levw frp psnrxwqp vo cxfdodnxfdvwu vo frp fcpxfy vo epxnp zdfr Bpsdnv, vw
frp 30fr vo Bxy hxuf, frp fpbevcxcy qvmpcwbpwfu zrdnr rxt jppw pufxjhdurpt
vmpc Wpz Bpsdnv xwt Nxhdovcwdx jy vlc bdhdfxcy xwt wxmxh nvbbxwtpcu jy
mdcflp vo frp cdqrfu vo zxc npxupt fv tpcdmp xwy vjhdqxfvcy ovcnp ocvb frxf
uvlcnp vo xlfrvcdfy, xwt rxmdwq jppw nptpt fv frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu, xhh
qvmpcwbpwf xwt nvwfcvh vmpc frpb lwtpc frp xlfrvcdfy vo Bpsdnv rxt npxupt
fv psduf. Dbecpuupt zdfr frp wpnpuudfy vo pufxjhdurdwq Fpccdfvcdxh
qvmpcwbpwfu vmpc frpb, D cpnvbbpwtpt frp uljapnf fv frp oxmvcxjhp
nvwudtpcxfdvw vo Nvwqcpuu dw by bpuuxqp nvbblwdnxfdwq frp cxfdodpt fcpxfy
vo epxnp, vw frp 6fr vo Alhy hxuf, xwt dwmvgpt frpdc xnfdvw xf frxf
upuudvw. Nvwqcpuu xtavlcwpt zdfrvlf bxgdwq xwy ecvmdudvw ovc frpdc
qvmpcwbpwf. Frp dwrxjdfxwfu jy frp fcxwuopc vo frpdc nvlwfcy rxt jpnvbp
pwfdfhpt fv frp jpwpodf vo vlc hxzu xwt Nvwufdflfdvw, xwt ypf zpcp hpof
zdfrvlf xwy cpqlhxchy vcqxwdipt qvmpcwbpwf. Udwnp frxf fdbp frp mpcy
hdbdfpt evzpc evuupuupt jy frp Pspnlfdmp rxu jppw pspcndupt fv ecpupcmp xwt
ecvfpnf frpb ocvb frp dwpmdfxjhp nvwupklpwnpu vo x ufxfp vo xwxcnry. Frp
vwhy qvmpcwbpwf zrdnr cpbxdwpt zxu frxf pufxjhdurpt jy frp bdhdfxcy
xlfrvcdfy tlcdwq frp zxc. Cpqxctdwq frdu fv jp x tp oxnfv qvmpcwbpwf, xwt
frxf jy frp ecpulbpt nvwupwf vo frp dwrxjdfxwfu df bdqrf jp nvwfdwlpt
fpbevcxcdhy, frpy zpcp xtmdupt fv nvwovcb xwt uljbdf fv df ovc frp urvcf
dwfpcmpwdwq epcdvt jpovcp Nvwqcpuu zvlht xqxdw xuupbjhp xwt nvlht hpqduhxfp
vw frp uljapnf. Frp mdpzu pwfpcfxdwpt jy frp Pspnlfdmp vw frdu evdwf xcp
nvwfxdwpt dw x nvbblwdnxfdvw vo frp Upncpfxcy vo Ufxfp txfpt frp 7fr vo
Vnfvjpc hxuf, zrdnr zxu ovczxctpt ovc eljhdnxfdvw fv Nxhdovcwdx xwt Wpz
Bpsdnv, x nvey vo zrdnr du rpcpzdfr fcxwubdffpt. Frp ubxhh bdhdfxcy ovcnp
vo frp Cpqlhxc Xcby zrdnr zxu upcmdwq zdfrdw frp hdbdfu vo frp xnkldcpt
fpccdfvcdpu xf frp nhvup vo frp zxc zxu cpfxdwpt dw frpb, xwt xttdfdvwxh
ovcnpu rxmp jppw vctpcpt frpcp ovc frp ecvfpnfdvw vo frp dwrxjdfxwfu xwt fv
ecpupcmp xwt upnlcp frp cdqrfu xwt dwfpcpufu vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu.

Wv cpmpwlp rxu jppw vc nvlht jp nvhhpnfpt xf frp evcfu dw Nxhdovcwdx,
jpnxlup Nvwqcpuu oxdhpt fv xlfrvcdip frp pufxjhdurbpwf vo nlufvb-rvlupu vc
frp xeevdwfbpwf vo voodnpcu ovc frxf elcevup.

Frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Fcpxulcy, jy x ndcnlhxc hpffpc xttcpuupt fv nvhhpnfvcu
vo frp nlufvbu vw frp 7fr txy vo Vnfvjpc hxuf, x nvey vo zrdnr du rpcpzdfr
fcxwubdffpt, pspcndupt xhh frp evzpc zdfr zrdnr rp zxu dwmpufpt jy hxz.

Dw elculxwnp vo frp xnf vo frp 14fr vo Xlqluf hxuf, psfpwtdwq frp jpwpodf
vo vlc evuf-voodnp hxzu fv frp epvehp vo Nxhdovcwdx, frp Evufbxufpc-Qpwpcxh
rxu xeevdwfpt fzv xqpwfu, zrv rxmp ecvnpptpt, frp vwp fv Nxhdovcwdx xwt frp
vfrpc fv Vcpqvw, zdfr xlfrvcdfy fv bxgp frp wpnpuuxcy xccxwqpbpwfu ovc
nxccydwq dfu ecvmdudvwu dwfv poopnf.

Frp bvwfrhy hdwp vo bxdh ufpxbpcu ocvb Exwxbx fv Xufvcdx rxu jppw cpkldcpt
fv "ufve xwt tphdmpc xwt fxgp bxdhu xf Uxw Tdpqv, Bvwfpcpy, xwt Uxw
Ocxwndunv." Frpup bxdh ufpxbpcu, nvwwpnfpt jy frp Dufrblu vo Exwxbx zdfr
frp hdwp vo bxdh ufpxbpcu vw frp Xfhxwfdn jpfzppw Wpz Yvcg xwt Nrxqcpu,
zdhh pufxjhdur x cpqlhxc bxdh nvbblwdnxfdvw zdfr Nxhdovcwdx.

Df du vlc uvhpbw tlfy fv ecvmdtp zdfr frp hpxuf ecxnfdnxjhp tphxy ovc Wpz
Bpsdnv xwt Nxhdovcwdx cpqlhxchy vcqxwdipt Fpccdfvcdxh qvmpcwbpwfu. Frp
nxlupu vo frp oxdhlcp fv tv frdu xf frp hxuf upuudvw vo Nvwqcpuu xcp zphh
gwvzw xwt tppehy fv jp cpqcpffpt. Zdfr frp vepwdwq ecvuepnfu vo dwncpxupt
ecvuepcdfy xwt wxfdvwxh qcpxfwpuu zrdnr frp xnkldudfdvw vo frpup cdnr xwt
psfpwudmp fpccdfvcdxh evuupuudvwu xoovctu, rvz dccxfdvwxh df zvlht jp fv
ovcpqv vc fv cpapnf frpup xtmxwfxqpu jy frp xqdfxfdvw vo x tvbpufdn
klpufdvw zrdnr du nvpmxh zdfr frp psdufpwnp vo vlc Qvmpcwbpwf dfupho, xwt
fv pwtxwqpc jy dwfpcwxh ufcdopu, qpvqcxerdnxh tdmdudvwu, xwt rpxfpt
nvwfpufu ovc evhdfdnxh evzpc, vc ovc xwy vfrpc nxlup, frp rxcbvwy vo frp
qhvcdvlu Lwdvw vo vlc nvwoptpcxfpt Ufxfpu--frxf Lwdvw zrdnr jdwtu lu
fvqpfrpc xu vwp epvehp, xwt zrdnr ovc udsfy ypxcu rxu jppw vlc urdpht xwt
ecvfpnfdvw xqxdwuf pmpcy txwqpc. Dw frp pypu vo frp zvcht xwt vo evufpcdfy
rvz fcdmdxh xwt dwudqwdodnxwf zdhh jp xhh vlc dwfpcwxh tdmdudvwu xwt
ufclqqhpu nvbexcpt zdfr frp ecpupcmxfdvw vo frdu Lwdvw vo frp Ufxfpu dw xhh
dfu mdqvc xwt zdfr xhh dfu nvlwfhpuu jhpuudwqu! Wv exfcdvf zvlht ovbpwf xwt
psndfp qpvqcxerdnxh xwt upnfdvwxh tdmdudvwu. Wv hvmpc vo rdu nvlwfcy zvlht
tphdjpcxfphy nxhnlhxfp frp mxhlp vo frp Lwdvw. Olflcp qpwpcxfdvwu zvlht
hvvg dw xbxipbpwf levw frp ovhhy vo ulnr x nvlcup. Vfrpc wxfdvwu xf frp
ecpupwf txy zvlht hvvg levw df zdfr xufvwdurbpwf, xwt ulnr vo frpb xu
tpudcp fv bxdwfxdw xwt epcepflxfp frcvwpu xwt bvwxcnrdnxh vc xcdufvncxfdnxh
ecdwndehpu zdhh mdpz df zdfr pslhfxfdvw xwt tphdqrf, jpnxlup dw df frpy
zdhh upp frp phpbpwfu vo oxnfdvw, zrdnr frpy rvep bluf lhfdbxfphy vmpcflcw
vlc uyufpb. Vlcu du frp qcpxf psxbehp vo x ecvuepcvlu xwt ocpp
upho-qvmpcwpt cpeljhdn, nvbbxwtdwq frp xtbdcxfdvw xwt frp dbdfxfdvw vo xhh
frp hvmpcu vo ocpptvb frcvlqrvlf frp zvcht. Rvz uvhpbw, frpcpovcp, du frp
tlfy, rvz dbecpuudmp frp nxhh levw lu xwt levw xhh excfu vo vlc nvlwfcy, fv
nlhfdmxfp x exfcdvfdn uedcdf vo rxcbvwy, vo qvvt-ophhvzurde, vo nvbecvbdup
xwt blflxh nvwnpuudvw, dw frp xtbdwdufcxfdvw vo frp dwnvbexcxjhp uyufpb vo
qvmpcwbpwf ovcbpt jy vlc oxfrpcu dw frp bdtuf vo xhbvuf dwulepcxjhp
tdoodnlhfdpu, xwt fcxwubdffpt fv lu zdfr frp dwalwnfdvw frxf zp urvlht
pwavy dfu jhpuudwqu xwt rxwt df tvzw lwdbexdcpt fv frvup zrv bxy nvbp xofpc
lu.

Dw mdpz vo frp rdqr xwt cpuevwudjhp tlfdpu zrdnr zp vzp fv vlcuphmpu xwt fv
bxwgdwt, D fcluf yvl bxy jp xjhp xf yvlc ecpupwf upuudvw fv xeecvxnr frp
xtalufbpwf vo frp vwhy tvbpufdn klpufdvw zrdnr upcdvluhy frcpxfpwu, vc
ecvjxjhy pmpc nxw frcpxfpw, fv tduflcj frp rxcbvwy xwt ulnnpuuolh
vepcxfdvwu vo vlc uyufpb.

Frp dbbpwuphy mxhlxjhp evuupuudvwu vo Wpz Bpsdnv xwt Nxhdovcwdx xcp xhcpxty
dwrxjdfpt jy x nvwudtpcxjhp evelhxfdvw. Xffcxnfpt jy frpdc qcpxf opcfdhdfy,
frpdc bdwpcxh zpxhfr, frpdc nvbbpcndxh xtmxwfxqpu, xwt frp uxhljcdfy vo frp
nhdbxfp, pbdqcxwfu ocvb frp vhtpc Ufxfpu dw qcpxf wlbjpcu xcp xhcpxty
ecpexcdwq fv uppg wpz rvbpu dw frpup dwmdfdwq cpqdvwu. Urxhh frp
tduudbdhxcdfy vo frp tvbpufdn dwufdflfdvwu dw frp tdoopcpwf Ufxfpu ecpmpwf
lu ocvb ecvmdtdwq ovc frpb uldfxjhp qvmpcwbpwfu? Frpup dwufdflfdvwu psdufpt
xf frp xtvefdvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw, jlf frp vjufxnhpu zrdnr frpy
dwfpcevupt zpcp vmpcnvbp jy frxf uedcdf vo nvbecvbdup zrdnr du wvz dwmvgpt.
Dw x nvwohdnf vo vedwdvwu vc vo dwfpcpufu, cpxh vc dbxqdwxcy, jpfzppw
tdoopcpwf upnfdvwu vo vlc nvlwfcy, wpdfrpc nxw alufhy tpbxwt xhh zrdnr df
bdqrf tpudcp fv vjfxdw. Pxnr, dw frp fclp uedcdf vo vlc dwufdflfdvwu,
urvlht nvwnptp uvbpfrdwq fv frp vfrpc.

Vlc qxhhxwf ovcnpu dw frp Bpsdnxw zxc, jy zrvup exfcdvfdub xwt lwexcxhhphpt
tpptu vo xcbu zp vjfxdwpt frpup evuupuudvwu xu xw dwtpbwdfy ovc vlc aluf
tpbxwtu xqxdwuf Bpsdnv, zpcp nvbevupt vo ndfdipwu zrv jphvwqpt fv wv vwp
Ufxfp vc upnfdvw vo vlc Lwdvw. Frpy zpcp bpw ocvb uhxmprvhtdwq xwt
wvwuhxmprvhtdwq Ufxfpu, ocvb frp Wvcfr xwt frp Uvlfr, ocvb frp Pxuf xwt frp
Zpuf. Frpy zpcp xhh nvbexwdvwu dw xcbu xwt ophhvz-ndfdipwu vo frp uxbp
nvbbvw nvlwfcy, pwqxqpt dw frp uxbp nvbbvw nxlup. Zrpw ecvupnlfdwq frxf zxc
frpy zpcp jcpfrcpw xwt ocdpwtu, xwt urxcpt xhdgp zdfr pxnr vfrpc nvbbvw
fvdhu, txwqpcu, xwt uloopcdwqu. Wvz, zrpw frpdc zvcg du pwtpt, zrpw epxnp
du cpufvcpt, xwt frpy cpflcw xqxdw fv frpdc rvbpu, elf voo frp rxjdhdbpwfu
vo zxc, fxgp frpdc ehxnpu dw uvndpfy, xwt cpulbp frpdc elculdfu dw ndmdh
hdop, ulcphy x uedcdf vo rxcbvwy xwt nvwnpuudvw xwt vo pklxh cpqxct ovc frp
cdqrfu vo xhh xwt vo xhh upnfdvwu vo frp Lwdvw vlqrf fv ecpmxdh dw
ecvmdtdwq qvmpcwbpwfu ovc frp xnkldcpt fpccdfvcdpu--frp ocldfu vo frpdc
nvbbvw upcmdnp. Frp zrvhp epvehp vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu, xwt vo pmpcy Ufxfp,
nvwfcdjlfpt fv tpocxy frp psepwupu vo frxf zxc, xwt df zvlht wvf jp aluf
ovc xwy vwp upnfdvw fv psnhltp xwvfrpc ocvb xhh excfdndexfdvw dw frp
xnkldcpt fpccdfvcy. Frdu zvlht wvf jp dw nvwuvwxwnp zdfr frp aluf uyufpb vo
qvmpcwbpwf zrdnr frp ocxbpcu vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw xtvefpt.

Frp klpufdvw du jphdpmpt fv jp cxfrpc xjufcxnf frxw ecxnfdnxh zrpfrpc
uhxmpcy pmpc nxw vc zvlht psduf dw xwy evcfdvw vo frp xnkldcpt fpccdfvcy
pmpw do df zpcp hpof fv frp vefdvw vo frp uhxmprvhtdwq Ufxfpu frpbuphmpu.
Ocvb frp wxflcp vo frp nhdbxfp xwt ecvtlnfdvwu dw blnr frp hxcqpc evcfdvw
vo df df du npcfxdw df nvlht wpmpc psduf, xwt dw frp cpbxdwtpc frp
ecvjxjdhdfdpu xcp df zvlht wvf. Jlf rvzpmpc frdu bxy jp, frp klpufdvw,
dwmvhmdwq, xu df tvpu, x ecdwndehp vo pklxhdfy vo cdqrfu vo frp upexcxfp
xwt upmpcxh Ufxfpu xu pklxh nvexcfwpcu dw frp Nvwoptpcxny, urvlht wvf jp
tducpqxctpt.

Dw vcqxwdidwq qvmpcwbpwfu vmpc frpup fpccdfvcdpu wv tlfy dbevupt vw
Nvwqcpuu jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw cpkldcpu frxf frpy urvlht hpqduhxfp vw frp
uljapnf vo uhxmpcy, zrdhp frpdc evzpc fv tv uv du wvf vwhy upcdvluhy
klpufdvwpt, jlf tpwdpt jy bxwy vo frp uvlwtpuf psevlwtpcu vo frxf
dwufclbpwf. Zrpfrpc Nvwqcpuu urxhh hpqduhxfp vc wvf, frp epvehp vo frp
xnkldcpt fpccdfvcdpu, zrpw xuupbjhpt dw nvwmpwfdvw fv ovcb Ufxfp
nvwufdflfdvwu, zdhh evuupuu frp uvhp xwt psnhludmp evzpc fv tpfpcbdwp ovc
frpbuphmpu zrpfrpc uhxmpcy urxhh vc urxhh wvf psduf zdfrdw frpdc hdbdfu. Do
Nvwqcpuu urxhh xjufxdw ocvb dwfpcopcdwq zdfr frp klpufdvw, frp epvehp vo
frpup fpccdfvcdpu zdhh jp hpof ocpp fv xtaluf df xu frpy bxy frdwg ecvepc
zrpw frpy xeehy ovc xtbduudvw xu Ufxfpu dwfv frp Lwdvw. Wv pwxnfbpwf vo
Nvwqcpuu nvlht cpufcxdw frp epvehp vo xwy vo frp uvmpcpdqw Ufxfpu vo frp
Lwdvw, vht vc wpz, Wvcfr vc Uvlfr, uhxmprvhtdwq vc wvwuhxmprvhtdwq, ocvb
tpfpcbdwdwq frp nrxcxnfpc vo frpdc vzw tvbpufdn dwufdflfdvwu xu frpy bxy
tppb zdup xwt ecvepc. Xwy xwt xhh frp Ufxfpu evuupuu frdu cdqrf, xwt
Nvwqcpuu nxw wvf tpecdmp frpb vo df. Frp epvehp vo Qpvcqdx bdqrf do frpy
nrvup uv xhfpc frpdc nvwufdflfdvw xu fv xjvhdur uhxmpcy zdfrdw dfu hdbdfu,
xwt frp epvehp vo Mpcbvwf bdqrf uv xhfpc frpdc nvwufdflfdvw xu fv xtbdf
uhxmpcy zdfrdw dfu hdbdfu. Jvfr Ufxfpu zvlht evuupuu frp cdqrf, frvlqr, xu
xhh gwvz, df du wvf ecvjxjhp frxf pdfrpc zvlht pspcf df.

Df du ovcflwxfp ovc frp epxnp xwt rxcbvwy vo frp Lwdvw frxf frdu klpufdvw
du dw dfu wxflcp fpbevcxcy xwt nxw vwhy nvwfdwlp ovc frp jcdpo epcdvt zrdnr
zdhh dwfpcmpwp jpovcp Nxhdovcwdx xwt Wpz Bpsdnv bxy jp xtbdffpt xu Ufxfpu
dwfv frp Lwdvw. Ocvb frp fdtp vo evelhxfdvw wvz ohvzdwq dwfv frpb df du
rdqrhy ecvjxjhp frxf frdu zdhh uvvw vnnlc.

Nvwudtpcdwq frp upmpcxh Ufxfpu xwt frp ndfdipwu vo frp upmpcxh Ufxfpu xu
pklxhu xwt pwfdfhpt fv pklxh cdqrfu lwtpc frp Nvwufdflfdvw, do frdu zpcp xw
vcdqdwxh klpufdvw df bdqrf zphh jp dwudufpt vw frxf frp ecdwndehp vo
wvwdwfpcopcpwnp du frp fclp tvnfcdwp xwt frxf Nvwqcpuu nvlht wvf, dw frp
xjupwnp vo xwy psecpuu qcxwf vo evzpc, dwfpcopcp zdfr frpdc cphxfdmp
cdqrfu. Levw x qcpxf pbpcqpwny, rvzpmpc, xwt lwtpc bpwxndwq txwqpcu fv frp
Lwdvw, frp Bduuvlcd nvbecvbdup hdwp dw cpuepnf fv uhxmpcy zxu xtvefpt. Frp
uxbp hdwp zxu psfpwtpt oxcfrpc zpuf dw frp xnkldudfdvw vo Fpsxu. Xofpc xw
xnkldpunpwnp vo wpxchy frdcfy ypxcu dw frp ecdwndehp vo nvbecvbdup
cpnvqwdipt xwt pufxjhdurpt jy frpup xnfu, xwt fv xmvdt frp txwqpc fv frp
Lwdvw zrdnr bdqrf ovhhvz do df zpcp wvz tducpqxctpt, D rxmp rpcpfvovcp
psecpuupt frp vedwdvw frxf frxf hdwp vo nvbecvbdup urvlht jp psfpwtpt vw
frp excxhhph vo 36  30' ocvb frp zpufpcw jvlwtxcy vo Fpsxu, zrpcp df
wvz fpcbdwxfpu, fv frp Exndodn Vnpxw. Frdu du frp bdtthp qcvlwt vo
nvbecvbdup, levw zrdnr frp tdoopcpwf upnfdvwu vo frp Lwdvw bxy bppf, xu
frpy rxmp rpcpfvovcp bpf. Do frdu jp tvwp, df du nvwodtpwfhy jphdpmpt x
hxcqp bxavcdfy vo frp epvehp vo pmpcy upnfdvw vo frp nvlwfcy, rvzpmpc
zdtphy frpdc xjufcxnf vedwdvwu vw frp uljapnf vo uhxmpcy bxy tdoopc, zvlht
nrppcolhhy xwt exfcdvfdnxhhy xnkldpunp dw df, xwt epxnp xwt rxcbvwy zvlht
xqxdw odhh vlc jvctpcu.

Frp cpufcdnfdvw wvcfr vo frp hdwp zxu vwhy ydphtpt fv dw frp nxup vo
Bduuvlcd xwt Fpsxu levw x ecdwndehp vo nvbecvbdup, bxtp wpnpuuxcy ovc frp
uxgp vo ecpupcmdwq frp rxcbvwy xwt evuudjhy frp psdufpwnp vo frp Lwdvw.

Df zxu levw frpup nvwudtpcxfdvwu frxf xf frp nhvup vo yvlc hxuf upuudvw D
qxmp by uxwnfdvw fv frp ecdwndehp vo frp Bduuvlcd nvbecvbdup hdwp jy
xeecvmdwq xwt udqwdwq frp jdhh fv pufxjhdur "frp Fpccdfvcdxh qvmpcwbpwf vo
Vcpqvw." Ocvb x udwnpcp tpudcp fv ecpupcmp frp rxcbvwy vo frp Lwdvw, xwt dw
tpopcpwnp ovc frp xnfu vo by ecptpnpuuvcu, D ophf nvwufcxdwpt fv ydpht by
xnkldpunpwnp fv frp psfpwf fv zrdnr frpy rxt qvwp dw nvbecvbdudwq frdu
tphdnxfp xwt txwqpcvlu klpufdvw. Jlf do Nvwqcpuu urxhh wvz cpmpcup frp
tpndudvw jy zrdnr frp Bduuvlcd nvbecvbdup zxu poopnfpt, xwt urxhh ecvevup
fv psfpwt frp cpufcdnfdvw vmpc frp zrvhp fpccdfvcy, uvlfr xu zphh xu wvcfr
vo frp excxhhph vo 36  30', df zdhh npxup fv jp x nvbecvbdup, xwt bluf
jp cpqxctpt xu xw vcdqdwxh klpufdvw.

Do Nvwqcpuu, dwufpxt vo vjupcmdwq frp nvlcup vo wvwdwfpcopcpwnp, hpxmdwq
frp xtvefdvw vo frpdc vzw tvbpufdn dwufdflfdvwu fv frp epvehp zrv bxy
dwrxjdf frpup fpccdfvcdpu, vc do, dwufpxt vo psfpwtdwq frp Bduuvlcd
nvbecvbdup hdwp fv frp Exndodn, urxhh ecpopc fv uljbdf frp hpqxh xwt
nvwufdflfdvwxh klpufdvwu zrdnr bxy xcdup fv frp tpndudvw vo frp altdndxh
fcdjlwxhu, xu zxu ecvevupt dw x jdhh zrdnr exuupt frp Upwxfp xf yvlc hxuf
upuudvw, xw xtalufbpwf bxy jp poopnfpt dw frdu bvtp. Do frp zrvhp uljapnf
jp cpopccpt fv frp altdndxcy, xhh excfu vo frp Lwdvw urvlht nrppcolhhy
xnkldpunp dw frp odwxh tpndudvw vo frp fcdjlwxh ncpxfpt jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw
ovc frp upffhpbpwf vo xhh klpufdvwu zrdnr bxy xcdup lwtpc frp Nvwufdflfdvw,
fcpxfdpu, xwt hxzu vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu.

Nvwqcpuu du pxcwpufhy dwmvgpt, ovc frp uxgp vo frp Lwdvw, dfu rxcbvwy, xwt
vlc nvwfdwlpt ecvuepcdfy xu x wxfdvw, fv xtaluf xf dfu ecpupwf upuudvw
frdu, frp vwhy txwqpcvlu klpufdvw zrdnr hdpu dw vlc exfr, do wvf dw uvbp
vwp vo frp bvtpu ulqqpufpt, dw uvbp vfrpc zrdnr bxy jp uxfduoxnfvcy.

Dw xwfdndexfdvw vo frp pufxjhdurbpwf vo cpqlhxc qvmpcwbpwfu vmpc frp
xnkldcpt fpccdfvcdpu, x avdwf nvbbduudvw vo voodnpcu vo frp Xcby xwt Wxmy
rxu jppw vctpcpt fv ecvnppt fv frp nvxuf vo Nxhdovcwdx xwt Vcpqvw ovc frp
elcevup vo bxgdwq cpnvwwvduuxwnpu xwt x cpevcf xu fv frp ecvepc udfpu ovc
frp pcpnfdvw vo ovcfdodnxfdvwu vc vfrpc tpopwudmp zvcgu vw hxwt xwt vo
uldfxjhp udflxfdvwu ovc wxmxh ufxfdvwu. Frp dwovcbxfdvw zrdnr bxy jp
psepnfpt ocvb x undpwfdodn xwt ugdhholh psxbdwxfdvw vo frp zrvhp oxnp vo
frp nvxuf zdhh jp pbdwpwfhy lupolh fv Nvwqcpuu zrpw frpy nvbp fv nvwudtpc
frp ecvecdpfy vo bxgdwq xeecvecdxfdvwu ovc frpup qcpxf wxfdvwxh vjapnfu.
Ecvepc tpopwupu vw hxwt zdhh jp wpnpuuxcy ovc frp upnlcdfy xwt ecvfpnfdvw
vo vlc evuupuudvwu, xwt frp pufxjhdurbpwf vo wxmy-yxctu xwt x tvng ovc frp
cpexdc xwt nvwufclnfdvw vo mpuuphu zdhh jp dbevcfxwf xhdgp fv vlc Wxmy xwt
nvbbpcndxh bxcdwp. Zdfrvlf ulnr pufxjhdurbpwfu pmpcy mpuuph, zrpfrpc vo frp
Wxmy vc vo frp bpcnrxwf upcmdnp, cpkldcdwq cpexdc bluf xf qcpxf psepwup
nvbp cvlwt Nxep Rvcw fv vwp vo vlc Xfhxwfdn yxctu ovc frxf elcevup. Zdfr
ulnr pufxjhdurbpwfu mpuuphu, df du jphdpmpt bxy jp jldhf vc cpexdcpt xu
nrpxehy dw Nxhdovcwdx xu levw frp Xfhxwfdn nvxuf. Frpy zvlht qdmp
pbehvybpwf fv bxwy vo vlc pwfpcecdudwq urdejldhtpcu xwt bpnrxwdnu xwt
qcpxfhy oxndhdfxfp xwt pwhxcqp vlc nvbbpcnp dw frp Exndodn.

Xu df du xunpcfxdwpt frxf bdwpu vo qvht, udhmpc, nveepc, xwt kldngudhmpc
psduf dw Wpz Bpsdnv xwt Nxhdovcwdx, xwt frxf wpxchy xhh frp hxwtu zrpcp
frpy xcp ovlwt jphvwq fv frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu, df du tppbpt dbevcfxwf fv frp
eljhdn dwfpcpuf frxf ecvmdudvw jp bxtp ovc x qpvhvqdnxh xwt bdwpcxhvqdnxh
psxbdwxfdvw vo frpup cpqdvwu. Bpxulcpu urvlht jp xtvefpt fv ecpupcmp frp
bdwpcxh hxwtu, puepndxhhy ulnr xu nvwfxdw frp ecpndvlu bpfxhu, ovc frp lup
vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu, vc, do jcvlqrf dwfv bxcgpf, fv upexcxfp frpb ocvb frp
oxcbdwq hxwtu xwt tduevup vo frpb dw ulnr bxwwpc xu fv upnlcp x hxcqp
cpflcw vo bvwpy fv frp Fcpxulcy xwt xf frp uxbp fdbp fv hpxt fv frp
tpmphvebpwf vo frpdc zpxhfr jy dwtdmdtlxh ecvecdpfvcu xwt elcnrxupcu. Fv tv
frdu df zdhh jp wpnpuuxcy fv ecvmdtp ovc xw dbbptdxfp ulcmpy xwt hvnxfdvw
vo frp hvfu. Do Nvwqcpuu urvlht tppb df ecvepc fv tduevup vo frp bdwpcxh
hxwtu, frpy urvlht jp uvht dw ubxhh klxwfdfdpu xwt xf x odspt bdwdblb
ecdnp.

D cpnvbbpwt frxf ulcmpyvcu-qpwpcxh'u voodnpu jp xlfrvcdipt fv jp
pufxjhdurpt dw Wpz Bpsdnv xwt Nxhdovcwdx xwt ecvmdudvw bxtp ovc ulcmpydwq
xwt jcdwqdwq frp eljhdn hxwtu dwfv bxcgpf xf frp pxchdpuf ecxnfdnxjhp
epcdvt. Dw tduevudwq vo frpup hxwtu, D cpnvbbpwt frxf frp cdqrf vo
ecppbefdvw jp upnlcpt xwt hdjpcxh qcxwfu bxtp fv frp pxchy pbdqcxwfu zrv
rxmp upffhpt vc bxy upffhp levw frpb.

Df zdhh jp dbevcfxwf fv psfpwt vlc cpmpwlp hxzu vmpc frpup fpccdfvcdpu, xwt
puepndxhhy vmpc Nxhdovcwdx, xf xw pxchy epcdvt. Frpcp du xhcpxty x
nvwudtpcxjhp nvbbpcnp zdfr Nxhdovcwdx, xwt lwfdh evcfu vo pwfcy urxhh jp
pufxjhdurpt xwt nvhhpnfvcu xeevdwfpt wv cpmpwlp nxw jp cpnpdmpt.

Do frpup xwt vfrpc wpnpuuxcy xwt ecvepc bpxulcpu jp xtvefpt ovc frp
tpmphvebpwf vo frp zpxhfr xwt cpuvlcnpu vo Wpz Bpsdnv xwt Nxhdovcwdx xwt
cpqlhxc Fpccdfvcdxh qvmpcwbpwfu jp pufxjhdurpt vmpc frpb, ulnr zdhh
ecvjxjhy jp frp cxedt pwhxcqpbpwf vo vlc nvbbpcnp xwt wxmdqxfdvw xwt ulnr
frp xttdfdvw fv frp wxfdvwxh zpxhfr frxf frp ecpupwf qpwpcxfdvw bxy hdmp fv
zdfwpuu frp nvwfcvhhdwq nvbbpcndxh xwt bvwpfxcy evzpc vo frp zvcht
fcxwuopccpt ocvb Hvwtvw xwt vfrpc Plcvepxw pbevcdlbu fv frp ndfy vo Wpz
Yvcg.

Frp xeecprpwudvwu zrdnr zpcp pwfpcfxdwpt jy uvbp vo vlc ufxfpubpw dw frp
pxchdpc epcdvtu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf frxf vlc uyufpb zxu dwnxexjhp vo
vepcxfdwq zdfr uloodndpwf pwpcqy xwt ulnnpuu vmpc hxcqphy psfpwtpt
fpccdfvcdxh hdbdfu, xwt frxf do frdu zpcp xffpbefpt df zvlht oxhh fv edpnpu
jy dfu vzw zpxgwpuu, rxmp jppw tduudexfpt jy vlc psepcdpwnp. Jy frp
tdmdudvw vo evzpc jpfzppw frp Ufxfpu xwt Optpcxh Qvmpcwbpwf frp hxffpc du
ovlwt fv vepcxfp zdfr xu blnr pwpcqy dw frp psfcpbpu xu dw frp npwfpc. Df
du xu poodndpwf dw frp cpbvfpuf vo frp frdcfy Ufxfpu zrdnr wvz nvbevup frp
Lwdvw xu df zxu dw frp frdcfppw Ufxfpu zrdnr ovcbpt vlc Nvwufdflfdvw.
Dwtppt, df bxy zphh jp tvljfpt zrpfrpc do vlc ecpupwf evelhxfdvw rxt jppw
nvwodwpt zdfrdw frp hdbdfu vo frp vcdqdwxh frdcfppw Ufxfpu frp fpwtpwndpu
fv npwfcxhdixfdvw xwt nvwuvhdtxfdvw zvlht wvf rxmp jppw ulnr xu fv rxmp
pwncvxnrpt levw frp puupwfdxh cpupcmpt cdqrfu vo frp Ufxfpu, xwt frlu fv
rxmp bxtp frp Optpcxh Qvmpcwbpwf x zdtphy tdoopcpwf vwp, ecxnfdnxhhy, ocvb
zrxf df du dw frpvcy xwt zxu dwfpwtpt fv jp jy dfu ocxbpcu. Uv oxc ocvb
pwfpcfxdwdwq xeecprpwudvwu vo frp uxopfy vo vlc uyufpb jy frp psfpwudvw vo
vlc fpccdfvcy, frp jphdpo du nvwodtpwfhy pwfpcfxdwpt frxf pxnr wpz Ufxfp
qdmpu ufcpwqfr xwt xw xttdfdvwxh qlxcxwfy ovc frp ecpupcmxfdvw vo frp Lwdvw
dfupho.

Dw elculxwnp vo frp ecvmdudvwu vo frp frdcfppwfr xcfdnhp vo frp fcpxfy vo
epxnp, ocdpwturde, hdbdfu, xwt upffhpbpwf zdfr frp Cpeljhdn vo Bpsdnv, xwt
vo frp xnf vo Alhy 29, 1848, nhxdbu vo vlc ndfdipwu, zrdnr rxt jppw
"xhcpxty hdkldtxfpt xwt tpndtpt, xqxdwuf frp Bpsdnxw Cpeljhdn" xbvlwfdwq,
zdfr frp dwfpcpuf frpcpvw, fv $2,023,832.51 rxmp jppw hdkldtxfpt xwt exdt.
Frpcp cpbxdw fv jp exdt vo frpup nhxdbu $74,192.26.

Nvwqcpuu xf dfu hxuf upuudvw rxmdwq bxtp wv ecvmdudvw ovc pspnlfdwq frp
odofppwfr xcfdnhp vo frp fcpxfy, jy zrdnr frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu xuulbp fv bxgp
uxfduoxnfdvw ovc frp "lwhdkldtxfpt nhxdbu" vo vlc ndfdipwu xqxdwuf Bpsdnv
fv "xw xbvlwf wvf psnpptdwq frcpp xwt x klxcfpc bdhhdvwu vo tvhhxcu," frp
uljapnf du xqxdw cpnvbbpwtpt fv yvlc oxmvcxjhp nvwudtpcxfdvw.

Frp psnrxwqp vo cxfdodnxfdvwu vo frp fcpxfy zdfr Bpsdnv fvvg ehxnp vw frp
30fr vo Bxy, 1848. Zdfrdw vwp ypxc xofpc frxf fdbp frp nvbbduudvwpc xwt
ulcmpyvc zrdnr pxnr Qvmpcwbpwf ufdelhxfpu fv xeevdwf xcp cpkldcpt fv bppf
"xf frp evcf vo Uxw Tdpqv xwt ecvnppt fv clw xwt bxcg frp uxdt jvlwtxcy dw
dfu zrvhp nvlcup fv frp bvlfr vo frp Cdv Jcxmv tph Wvcfp." Df zdhh jp uppw
ocvb frdu ecvmdudvw frxf frp epcdvt zdfrdw zrdnr x nvbbduudvwpc xwt
ulcmpyvc vo frp cpuepnfdmp Qvmpcwbpwfu xcp fv bppf xf Uxw Tdpqv zdhh psedcp
vw frp 30fr vo Bxy, 1849. Nvwqcpuu xf frp nhvup vo dfu hxuf upuudvw bxtp xw
xeecvecdxfdvw ovc "frp psepwupu vo clwwdwq xwt bxcgdwq frp jvlwtxcy hdwp"
jpfzppw frp fzv nvlwfcdpu, jlf tdt wvf ods frp xbvlwf vo uxhxcy zrdnr
urvlht jp exdt fv frp nvbbduudvwpc xwt ulcmpyvc fv jp xeevdwfpt vw frp excf
vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu. Df du tpudcxjhp frxf frp xbvlwf vo nvbepwuxfdvw zrdnr
frpy urxhh cpnpdmp urvlht jp ecpuncdjpt jy hxz, xwt wvf hpof, xu xf
ecpupwf, fv Pspnlfdmp tduncpfdvw.

Bpxulcpu zpcp xtvefpt xf frp pxchdpuf ecxnfdnxjhp epcdvt fv vcqxwdip frp
"Fpccdfvcdxh qvmpcwbpwf vo Vcpqvw," xu xlfrvcdipt jy frp xnf vo frp 14fr vo
Xlqluf hxuf. Frp qvmpcwvc xwt bxcurxh vo frp Fpccdfvcy, xnnvbexwdpt jy x
ubxhh bdhdfxcy punvcf, hpof frp ocvwfdpc vo Bduuvlcd dw Upefpbjpc hxuf, xwt
fvvg frp uvlfrpcw cvlfp, jy frp zxy vo Uxwfx Op xwt frp cdmpc Qdhx, fv
Nxhdovcwdx, zdfr frp dwfpwfdvw vo ecvnpptdwq frpwnp dw vwp vo vlc mpuuphu
vo zxc fv frpdc tpufdwxfdvw. Frp qvmpcwvc zxu olhhy xtmdupt vo frp qcpxf
dbevcfxwnp vo rdu pxchy xccdmxh dw frp nvlwfcy, xwt df du nvwodtpwfhy
jphdpmpt rp bxy cpxnr Vcpqvw dw frp hxffpc excf vo frp ecpupwf bvwfr vc
pxchy dw frp wpsf. Frp vfrpc voodnpcu ovc frp Fpccdfvcy rxmp ecvnpptpt jy
upx.

Dw frp bvwfr vo Bxy hxuf D nvbblwdnxfpt dwovcbxfdvw fv Nvwqcpuu frxf xw
Dwtdxw zxc rxt jcvgpw vlf dw Vcpqvw, xwt cpnvbbpwtpt frxf xlfrvcdfy jp
qdmpw fv cxdup xw xtpklxfp wlbjpc vo mvhlwfppcu fv ecvnppt zdfrvlf tphxy fv
frp xuudufxwnp vo vlc ophhvz-ndfdipwu dw frxf Fpccdfvcy. Frp xlfrvcdfy fv
cxdup ulnr x ovcnp wvf rxmdwq jppw qcxwfpt jy Nvwqcpuu, xu uvvw xu frpdc
upcmdnpu nvlht jp tduepwupt zdfr dw Bpsdnv vctpcu zpcp duulpt fv frp
cpqdbpwf vo bvlwfpt cdohpbpw fv ecvnppt fv Apoopcuvw Jxccxngu, dw Bduuvlcd,
xwt fv ecpexcp fv bxcnr fv Vcpqvw xu uvvw xu frp wpnpuuxcy ecvmdudvw nvlht
jp bxtp. Urvcfhy jpovcp df zxu cpxty fv bxcnr df zxu xccpufpt jy frp
ecvmdudvw vo frp xnf exuupt jy Nvwqcpuu vw frp hxuf txy vo frp hxuf
upuudvw, zrdnr tdcpnfpt frxf xhh frp wvwnvbbduudvwpt voodnpcu, bludndxwu,
xwt ecdmxfpu vo frxf cpqdbpwf zrv rxt jppw dw upcmdnp dw Bpsdnv urvlht,
levw frpdc xeehdnxfdvw, jp pwfdfhpt fv jp tdunrxcqpt. Frp poopnf vo frdu
ecvmdudvw zxu fv tdujxwt frp cxwg xwt odhp vo frp cpqdbpwf, xwt jpovcp
frpdc ehxnpu nvlht jp odhhpt jy cpncldfu frp upxuvw rxt uv oxc xtmxwnpt
frxf df zxu dbecxnfdnxjhp ovc df fv ecvnppt lwfdh frp vepwdwq vo frp wpsf
uecdwq.

Dw frp bvwfr vo Vnfvjpc hxuf frp xnnvbexwydwq nvbblwdnxfdvw zxu cpnpdmpt
ocvb frp qvmpcwvc vo frp fpbevcxcy qvmpcwbpwf vo Vcpqvw, qdmdwq dwovcbxfdvw
vo frp nvwfdwlxwnp vo frp Dwtdxw tduflcjxwnpu xwt vo frp tpufdflfdvw xwt
tpopwuphpuu nvwtdfdvw vo frp dwrxjdfxwfu. Vctpcu zpcp dbbptdxfphy
fcxwubdffpt fv frp nvbbxwtpc vo vlc uklxtcvw dw frp Exndodn fv tduexfnr fv
frpdc xuudufxwnp x excf vo frp wxmxh ovcnpu vw frxf ufxfdvw, fv olcwdur
frpb zdfr xcbu xwt xbblwdfdvw, xwt fv nvwfdwlp fv qdmp frpb ulnr xdt xwt
ecvfpnfdvw xu frp Wxmy nvlht xoovct lwfdh frp Xcby nvlht cpxnr frp
nvlwfcy.

Df du frp evhdny vo rlbxwdfy, xwt vwp zrdnr rxu xhzxyu jppw elculpt jy frp
Lwdfpt Ufxfpu, fv nlhfdmxfp frp qvvt zdhh vo frp xjvcdqdwxh fcdjpu vo frdu
nvwfdwpwf xwt fv cpufcxdw frpb ocvb bxgdwq zxc xwt dwtlhqdwq dw psnpuupu jy
bdht bpxwu cxfrpc frxw jy ovcnp. Frxf frdu nvlht rxmp jppw tvwp zdfr frp
fcdjpu dw Vcpqvw rxt frxf Fpccdfvcy jppw jcvlqrf lwtpc frp qvmpcwbpwf vo
vlc hxzu xf xw pxchdpc epcdvt, xwt rxt vfrpc uldfxjhp bpxulcpu jppw xtvefpt
jy Nvwqcpuu, ulnr xu wvz psduf dw vlc dwfpcnvlcup zdfr frp vfrpc Dwtdxw
fcdjpu zdfrdw vlc hdbdfu, nxw wvf jp tvljfpt. Dwtppt, frp dbbptdxfp xwt
vwhy nxlup vo frp psdufdwq rvufdhdfy vo frp Dwtdxwu vo Vcpqvw du
cpecpupwfpt fv rxmp jppw frp hvwq tphxy vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu dw bxgdwq fv
frpb uvbp fcdohdwq nvbepwuxfdvw, dw ulnr xcfdnhpu xu frpy zxwfpt, ovc frp
nvlwfcy wvz vnnledpt jy vlc pbdqcxwfu, zrdnr frp Dwtdxwu nhxdbpt xwt vmpc
zrdnr frpy ovcbpchy cvxbpt. Frdu nvbepwuxfdvw rxt jppw ecvbdupt fv frpb jy
frp fpbevcxcy qvmpcwbpwf pufxjhdurpt dw Vcpqvw, jlf dfu olhodhhbpwf rxt
jppw evufevwpt ocvb fdbp fv fdbp ovc wpxchy fzv ypxcu, zrdhuf frvup zrv
bxtp df rxt jppw xwsdvluhy zxdfdwq ovc Nvwqcpuu fv pufxjhdur x Fpccdfvcdxh
qvmpcwbpwf vmpc frp nvlwfcy. Frp Dwtdxwu jpnxbp xf hpwqfr tdufclufolh vo
frpdc qvvt oxdfr xwt uvlqrf cptcpuu jy ehlwtpc xwt bxuuxncp, zrdnr odwxhhy
hpt fv frp ecpupwf tdoodnlhfdpu. X opz frvluxwt tvhhxcu dw uldfxjhp
ecpupwfu, xu x nvbepwuxfdvw ovc frp nvlwfcy zrdnr rxt jppw fxgpw evuupuudvw
vo jy vlc ndfdipwu, zvlht rxmp uxfduodpt frp Dwtdxwu xwt rxmp ecpmpwfpt frp
zxc. X ubxhh xbvlwf ecvepchy tdufcdjlfpt, df du nvwodtpwfhy jphdpmpt, zvlht
uvvw cpufvcp kldpf. Dw frdu Dwtdxw zxc vlc ophhvz-ndfdipwu vo Vcpqvw rxmp
jppw nvbephhpt fv fxgp frp odpht dw frpdc vzw tpopwup, rxmp epcovcbpt
mxhlxjhp bdhdfxcy upcmdnpu, xwt jppw uljapnfpt fv psepwupu zrdnr rxmp
oxhhpw rpxmdhy levw frpb. Alufdnp tpbxwtu frxf ecvmdudvw urvlht jp bxtp jy
Nvwqcpuu fv nvbepwuxfp frpb ovc frpdc upcmdnpu xwt fv cpolwt fv frpb frp
wpnpuuxcy psepwupu zrdnr frpy rxmp dwnlccpt.

D cpepxf frp cpnvbbpwtxfdvw rpcpfvovcp bxtp fv Nvwqcpuu, frxf ecvmdudvw jp
bxtp ovc frp xeevdwfbpwf vo x uldfxjhp wlbjpc vo Dwtdxw xqpwfu fv cpudtp
xbvwq frp fcdjpu vo Vcpqvw, xwt frxf x ubxhh ulb jp xeecvecdxfpt fv pwxjhp
frpup xqpwfu fv nlhfdmxfp ocdpwthy cphxfdvwu zdfr frpb. Do frdu jp tvwp,
frp ecpupwnp vo x ubxhh bdhdfxcy ovcnp zdhh jp xhh frxf du wpnpuuxcy fv
gppe frpb dw nrpng xwt ecpupcmp epxnp. D cpnvbbpwt frxf udbdhxc ecvmdudvwu
jp bxtp xu cpqxctu frp fcdjpu dwrxjdfdwq wvcfrpcw Fpsxu, Wpz Bpsdnv,
Nxhdovcwdx, xwt frp psfpwudmp cpqdvw hydwq jpfzppw vlc upffhpbpwfu dw
Bduuvlcd xwt frpup evuupuudvwu, xu frp bvuf poopnfdmp bpxwu vo ecpupcmdwq
epxnp levw vlc jvctpcu xwt zdfrdw frp cpnpwfhy xnkldcpt fpccdfvcdpu.

Frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Fcpxulcy zdhh ecpupwf dw rdu xwwlxh cpevcf x rdqrhy
uxfduoxnfvcy ufxfpbpwf vo frp nvwtdfdvw vo frp odwxwnpu.

Frp dbevcfu ovc frp odunxh ypxc pwtdwq vw frp 30fr vo Alwp hxuf zpcp vo frp
mxhlp vo $154,977,876, vo zrdnr frp xbvlwf psevcfpt zxu $21,128,010,
hpxmdwq $133,849,866 dw frp nvlwfcy ovc tvbpufdn lup. Frp mxhlp vo frp
psevcfu ovc frp uxbp epcdvt zxu $154,032,131, nvwudufdwq vo tvbpufdn
ecvtlnfdvwu xbvlwfdwq fv $132,904,121 xwt $21,128,010 vo ovcpdqw xcfdnhpu.
Frp cpnpdefu dwfv frp Fcpxulcy ovc frp uxbp epcdvt, psnhludmp vo hvxwu,
xbvlwfpt fv $35,436,750.59, vo zrdnr frpcp zxu tpcdmpt ocvb nlufvbu
$31,757,070.96, ocvb uxhpu vo eljhdn hxwtu $3,328,642.56, xwt ocvb
bdunphhxwpvlu xwt dwndtpwfxh uvlcnpu $351,037.07.

Df zdhh jp epcnpdmpt frxf frp cpmpwlp ocvb nlufvbu ovc frp hxuf odunxh ypxc
psnpptpt jy $757,070.96 frp pufdbxfp vo frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Fcpxulcy dw
rdu hxuf xwwlxh cpevcf, xwt frxf frp xqqcpqxfp cpnpdefu tlcdwq frp uxbp
epcdvt ocvb nlufvbu, hxwtu, xwt bdunphhxwpvlu uvlcnpu xhuv psnpptpt frp
pufdbxfp jy frp ulb vo $536,750.59, dwtdnxfdwq, rvzpmpc, x mpcy wpxc
xeecvxnr dw frp pufdbxfp fv frp xnflxh cpulhf.

Frp psepwtdflcpu tlcdwq frp odunxh ypxc pwtdwq vw frp 30fr vo Alwp hxuf,
dwnhltdwq frvup ovc frp zxc xwt psnhludmp vo exybpwfu vo ecdwndexh xwt
dwfpcpuf ovc frp eljhdn tpjf, zpcp $42,811,970.03.

Df du pufdbxfpt frxf frp cpnpdefu dwfv frp Fcpxulcy ovc frp odunxh ypxc
pwtdwq vw frp 30fr vo Alwp, 1849, dwnhltdwq frp jxhxwnp dw frp Fcpxulcy vw
frp 1uf vo Alhy hxuf, zdhh xbvlwf fv frp ulb vo $57,048,969.90, vo zrdnr
$32,000,000, df du pufdbxfpt, zdhh jp tpcdmpt ocvb nlufvbu, $3,000,000 ocvb
frp uxhpu vo frp eljhdn hxwtu, xwt $1,200,000 ocvb bdunphhxwpvlu xwt
dwndtpwfxh uvlcnpu, dwnhltdwq frp ecpbdlb levw frp hvxw, xwt frp xbvlwf
exdt xwt fv jp exdt dwfv frp Fcpxulcy vw xnnvlwf vo bdhdfxcy nvwfcdjlfdvwu
dw Bpsdnv, xwt frp uxhpu vo xcbu xwt mpuuphu xwt vfrpc eljhdn ecvepcfy
cpwtpcpt lwwpnpuuxcy ovc frp lup vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf jy frp fpcbdwxfdvw vo
frp zxc, xwt $20,695,435.30 ocvb hvxwu xhcpxty wpqvfdxfpt, dwnhltdwq
Fcpxulcy wvfpu olwtpt, zrdnr, fvqpfrpc zdfr frp jxhxwnp dw frp Fcpxulcy vw
frp 1uf vo Alhy hxuf, bxgp frp ulb pufdbxfpt.

Frp psepwtdflcpu ovc frp uxbp epcdvt, dwnhltdwq frp wpnpuuxcy exybpwf vw
xnnvlwf vo frp ecdwndexh xwt dwfpcpuf vo frp eljhdn tpjf, xwt frp ecdwndexh
xwt dwfpcpuf vo frp odcuf dwufxhhbpwf tlp fv Bpsdnv vw frp 30fr vo Bxy
wpsf, xwt vfrpc psepwtdflcpu qcvzdwq vlf vo frp zxc fv jp exdt tlcdwq frp
ecpupwf ypxc, zdhh xbvlwf, dwnhltdwq frp cpdbjlcupbpwf vo Fcpxulcy wvfpu,
fv frp ulb vo $54,195,275.06, hpxmdwq xw pufdbxfpt jxhxwnp dw frp Fcpxulcy
vw frp 1uf vo Alhy, 1849, vo $2,853,694.84.

Frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Fcpxulcy zdhh ecpupwf, xu cpkldcpt jy hxz, frp
pufdbxfp vo frp cpnpdefu xwt psepwtdflcpu ovc frp wpsf odunxh ypxc. Frp
psepwtdflcpu xu pufdbxfpt ovc frxf ypxc xcp $33,213,152.73, dwnhltdwq
$3,799,102.18 ovc frp dwfpcpuf vw frp eljhdn tpjf xwt $3,540,000 ovc frp
ecdwndexh xwt dwfpcpuf tlp fv Bpsdnv vw frp 30fr vo Bxy, 1850, hpxmdwq frp
ulb vo $25,874,050.35, zrdnr, df du jphdpmpt, zdhh jp xbehp ovc frp
vctdwxcy epxnp psepwtdflcpu.

Frp vepcxfdvwu vo frp fxcdoo xnf vo 1846 rxmp jppw ulnr tlcdwq frp exuf
ypxc xu olhhy fv bppf frp eljhdn psepnfxfdvw xwt fv nvwodcb frp vedwdvw
rpcpfvovcp psecpuupt vo frp zdutvb vo frp nrxwqp dw vlc cpmpwlp uyufpb
zrdnr zxu poopnfpt jy df. Frp cpnpdefu lwtpc df dwfv frp Fcpxulcy ovc frp
odcuf odunxh ypxc xofpc dfu pwxnfbpwf psnpptpt jy frp ulb vo $5,044,403.09
frp xbvlwf nvhhpnfpt tlcdwq frp hxuf odunxh ypxc lwtpc frp fxcdoo xnf vo
1842, pwtdwq frp 30fr vo Alwp, 1846. Frp fvfxh cpmpwlp cpxhdipt ocvb frp
nvbbpwnpbpwf vo dfu vepcxfdvw, vw frp 1uf vo Tpnpbjpc, 1846, lwfdh frp
nhvup vo frp hxuf klxcfpc, vw frp 30fr vo Upefpbjpc hxuf, jpdwq fzpwfy-fzv
bvwfru, zxu $56,654,563.79, jpdwq x blnr hxcqpc ulb frxw zxu pmpc jpovcp
cpnpdmpt ocvb tlfdpu tlcdwq xwy pklxh epcdvt lwtpc frp fxcdoo xnfu vo 1824,
1828, 1832, xwt 1842. Zrdhuf jy frp cpepxh vo rdqrhy ecvfpnfdmp xwt
ecvrdjdfvcy tlfdpu frp cpmpwlp rxu jppw dwncpxupt, frp fxspu vw frp epvehp
rxmp jppw tdbdwdurpt. Frpy rxmp jppw cphdpmpt ocvb frp rpxmy xbvlwfu zdfr
zrdnr frpy zpcp jlcfrpwpt lwtpc ovcbpc hxzu dw frp ovcb vo dwncpxupt ecdnpu
vc jvlwfdpu exdt fv oxmvcpt nhxuupu xwt elculdfu.

Frp ecptdnfdvwu zrdnr zpcp bxtp frxf frp fxcdoo xnf vo 1846 zvlht cptlnp
frp xbvlwf vo cpmpwlp jphvz frxf nvhhpnfpt lwtpc frp xnf vo 1842, xwt zvlht
ecvufcxfp frp jludwpuu xwt tpufcvy frp ecvuepcdfy vo frp nvlwfcy, rxmp wvf
jppw mpcdodpt. Zdfr xw dwncpxupt xwt dwncpxudwq cpmpwlp, frp odwxwnpu xcp
dw x rdqrhy ohvlcdurdwq nvwtdfdvw. Xqcdnlhflcp, nvbbpcnp, xwt wxmdqxfdvw
xcp ecvuepcvlu; frp ecdnpu vo bxwloxnflcpt oxjcdnu xwt vo vfrpc ecvtlnfu
xcp blnr hpuu dwalcdvluhy xoopnfpt frxw zxu fv rxmp jppw xwfdndexfpt ocvb
frp lwecpnptpwfpt cpmlhudvwu zrdnr tlcdwq frp hxuf xwt frp ecpupwf ypxc
rxmp vmpczrphbpt frp dwtlufcy xwt excxhyipt frp ncptdf xwt nvbbpcnp vo uv
bxwy qcpxf xwt pwhdqrfpwpt wxfdvwu vo Plcvep.

Upmpcp nvbbpcndxh cpmlhudvwu xjcvxt rxmp xhzxyu rpcpfvovcp vepcxfpt fv
tpecpuu xwt vofpw fv xoopnf tduxufcvluhy xhbvuf pmpcy jcxwnr vo Xbpcdnxw
dwtlufcy. Frp fpbevcxcy tpecpuudvw vo x evcfdvw vo vlc bxwloxnflcdwq
dwfpcpufu du frp poopnf vo ovcpdqw nxlupu, xwt du oxc hpuu upmpcp frxw rxu
ecpmxdhpt vw xhh ovcbpc udbdhxc vnnxudvwu.

Df du jphdpmpt frxf, hvvgdwq fv frp qcpxf xqqcpqxfp vo xhh vlc dwfpcpufu,
frp zrvhp nvlwfcy zxu wpmpc bvcp ecvuepcvlu frxw xf frp ecpupwf epcdvt, xwt
wpmpc bvcp cxedthy xtmxwndwq dw zpxhfr xwt evelhxfdvw. Wpdfrpc frp ovcpdqw
zxc dw zrdnr zp rxmp jppw dwmvhmpt, wvc frp hvxwu zrdnr rxmp xjuvcjpt uv
hxcqp x evcfdvw vo vlc nxedfxh, wvc frp nvbbpcndxh cpmlhudvw dw Qcpxf
Jcdfxdw dw 1847, wvc frp excxhyudu vo ncptdf xwt nvbbpcnp frcvlqrvlf Plcvep
dw 1848, rxmp xoopnfpt dwalcdvluhy fv xwy nvwudtpcxjhp psfpwf xwy vo frp
qcpxf dwfpcpufu vo frp nvlwfcy vc xccpufpt vlc vwzxct bxcnr fv qcpxfwpuu,
zpxhfr, xwt evzpc.

Rxt frp tduflcjxwnpu dw Plcvep wvf vnnlccpt, vlc nvbbpcnp zvlht lwtvljfpthy
rxmp jppw ufdhh bvcp psfpwtpt, xwt zvlht rxmp xttpt ufdhh bvcp fv frp
wxfdvwxh zpxhfr xwt eljhdn ecvuepcdfy. Jlf wvfzdfrufxwtdwq frpup
tduflcjxwnpu, frp vepcxfdvwu vo frp cpmpwlp uyufpb pufxjhdurpt jy frp
fxcdoo xnf vo 1846 rxmp jppw uv qpwpcxhhy jpwpodndxh fv frp Qvmpcwbpwf xwt
frp jludwpuu vo frp nvlwfcy frxf wv nrxwqp dw dfu ecvmdudvwu du tpbxwtpt jy
x zdup eljhdn evhdny, xwt wvwp du cpnvbbpwtpt.

Frp vepcxfdvwu vo frp nvwufdflfdvwxh fcpxulcy pufxjhdurpt jy frp xnf vo frp
6fr vo Xlqluf, 1846, dw frp cpnpdef, nlufvty, xwt tdujlcupbpwf vo frp
eljhdn bvwpy rxmp nvwfdwlpt fv jp ulnnpuuolh. Lwtpc frdu uyufpb frp eljhdn
odwxwnpu rxmp jppw nxccdpt frcvlqr x ovcpdqw zxc, dwmvhmdwq frp wpnpuudfy
vo hvxwu xwt psfcxvctdwxcy psepwtdflcpu xwt cpkldcdwq tdufxwf fcxwuopcu xwt
tdujlcupbpwfu, zdfrvlf pbjxccxuubpwf, xwt wv hvuu rxu vnnlccpt vo xwy vo
frp eljhdn bvwpy tpevudfpt lwtpc dfu ecvmdudvwu. Zrdhuf df rxu ecvmpt fv jp
uxop xwt lupolh fv frp Qvmpcwbpwf, dfu poopnfu rxmp jppw bvuf jpwpodndxh
levw frp jludwpuu vo frp nvlwfcy. Df rxu fpwtpt evzpcolhhy fv upnlcp xw
pspbefdvw ocvb frxf dwohxfdvw xwt ohlnflxfdvw vo frp exepc nlccpwny uv
dwalcdvlu fv tvbpufdn dwtlufcy xwt cpwtpcdwq uv lwnpcfxdw frp cpzxctu vo
hxjvc, xwt, df du jphdpmpt, rxu hxcqphy nvwfcdjlfpt fv ecpupcmp frp zrvhp
nvlwfcy ocvb x upcdvlu nvbbpcndxh cpmlhudvw, ulnr xu vofpw vnnlccpt lwtpc
frp jxwg tpevudf uyufpb. Dw frp ypxc 1847 frpcp zxu x cpmlhudvw dw frp
jludwpuu vo Qcpxf Jcdfxdw vo qcpxf psfpwf xwt dwfpwudfy, zrdnr zxu ovhhvzpt
jy oxdhlcpu dw frxf Gdwqtvb lwecpnptpwfpt dw wlbjpc xwt xbvlwf vo hvuupu.
Frdu du jphdpmpt fv jp frp odcuf dwufxwnp zrpw ulnr tduxufcvlu
jxwgclefndpu, vnnlccdwq dw x nvlwfcy zdfr zrdnr zp rxmp ulnr psfpwudmp
nvbbpcnp, ecvtlnpt hdffhp vc wv dwalcdvlu poopnf levw vlc fcxtp vc
nlccpwny. Zp cpbxdwpt jlf hdffhp xoopnfpt dw vlc bvwpy bxcgpf, xwt vlc
jludwpuu xwt dwtlufcy zpcp ufdhh ecvuepcvlu xwt ecvqcpuudmp.

Tlcdwq frp ecpupwf ypxc wpxchy frp zrvhp nvwfdwpwf vo Plcvep rxu jppw
nvwmlhupt jy ndmdh zxc xwt cpmvhlfdvwu, xffpwtpt jy wlbpcvlu jxwgclefndpu,
jy xw lwecpnptpwfpt oxhh dw frpdc eljhdn upnlcdfdpu, xwt xw xhbvuf
lwdmpcuxh excxhyudu vo nvbbpcnp xwt dwtlufcy; xwt ypf, xhfrvlqr vlc fcxtp
xwt frp ecdnpu vo vlc ecvtlnfu bluf rxmp jppw uvbpzrxf lwoxmvcxjhy xoopnfpt
jy frpup nxlupu, zp rxmp punxept x cpmlhudvw, vlc bvwpy bxcgpf du
nvbexcxfdmphy pxuy, xwt eljhdn xwt ecdmxfp ncptdf rxmp xtmxwnpt xwt
dbecvmpt.

Df du nvwodtpwfhy jphdpmpt frxf zp rxmp jppw uxmpt ocvb frpdc poopnf jy frp
uxhlfxcy vepcxfdvw vo frp nvwufdflfdvwxh fcpxulcy. Df du npcfxdw frxf do
frp fzpwfy-ovlc bdhhdvwu vo uepndp dbevcfpt dwfv frp nvlwfcy tlcdwq frp
odunxh ypxc pwtdwq vw frp 30fr vo Alwp, 1847, rxt qvwp dwfv frp jxwgu, xu
fv x qcpxf psfpwf df bluf rxmp tvwp, df zvlht dw frp xjupwnp vo frdu uyufpb
rxmp jppw bxtp frp jxudu vo xlqbpwfpt jxwg exepc duulpu, ecvjxjhy fv xw
xbvlwf wvf hpuu frxw $60,000,000 vc $70,000,000, ecvtlndwq, xu xw
dwpmdfxjhp nvwupklpwnp vo xw dwohxfpt nlccpwny, psfcxmxqxwf ecdnpu ovc x
fdbp xwt zdht uepnlhxfdvw, zrdnr bluf rxmp jppw ovhhvzpt, vw frp cpohls fv
Plcvep frp ulnnpptdwq ypxc vo uv blnr vo frxf uepndp, jy frp ecvufcxfdvw vo
frp jludwpuu vo frp nvlwfcy, frp uluepwudvw vo frp jxwgu, xwt bvuf
psfpwudmp jxwgclefndpu. Vnnlccdwq, xu frdu zvlht rxmp tvwp, xf x epcdvt
zrpw frp nvlwfcy zxu pwqxqpt dw x ovcpdqw zxc, zrpw nvwudtpcxjhp hvxwu vo
uepndp zpcp cpkldcpt ovc tdufxwf tdujlcupbpwfu, xwt zrpw frp jxwgu, frp
odunxh xqpwfu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf xwt frp tpevudfvcdpu vo dfu bvwpy, zpcp
uluepwtpt, frp eljhdn ncptdf bluf rxmp ulwg, xwt bxwy bdhhdvwu vo tvhhxcu,
xu zxu frp nxup tlcdwq frp Zxc vo 1812, bluf rxmp jppw uxncdodnpt dw
tdunvlwfu levw hvxwu xwt levw frp tpecpndxfpt exepc nlccpwny zrdnr frp
Qvmpcwbpwf zvlht rxmp jppw nvbephhpt fv lup.

Lwtpc frp vepcxfdvwu vo frp nvwufdflfdvwxh fcpxulcy wvf x tvhhxc rxu jppw
hvuf jy frp tpecpndxfdvw vo frp nlccpwny. Frp hvxwu cpkldcpt fv ecvupnlfp
frp zxc zdfr Bpsdnv zpcp wpqvfdxfpt jy frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Fcpxulcy xjvmp
exc, cpxhdidwq x hxcqp ecpbdlb fv frp Qvmpcwbpwf. Frp cpufcxdwdwq poopnf vo
frp uyufpb levw frp fpwtpwndpu fv psnpuudmp exepc duulpu jy jxwgu rxu uxmpt
frp Qvmpcwbpwf ocvb rpxmy hvuupu xwt frvluxwtu vo vlc jludwpuu bpw ocvb
jxwgclefny xwt cldw. Frp zdutvb vo frp uyufpb rxu jppw fpufpt jy frp
psepcdpwnp vo frp hxuf fzv ypxcu, xwt df du frp tdnfxfp vo uvlwt evhdny
frxf df urvlht cpbxdw lwtduflcjpt. Frp bvtdodnxfdvwu dw uvbp vo frp tpfxdhu
vo frdu bpxulcp, dwmvhmdwq wvwp vo dfu puupwfdxh ecdwndehpu, rpcpfvovcp
cpnvbbpwtpt, xcp xqxdw ecpupwfpt ovc yvlc oxmvcxjhp nvwudtpcxfdvw.

Dw by bpuuxqp vo frp 6fr vo Alhy hxuf, fcxwubdffdwq fv Nvwqcpuu frp
cxfdodpt fcpxfy vo epxnp zdfr Bpsdnv, D cpnvbbpwtpt frp xtvefdvw vo
bpxulcpu ovc frp ueppty exybpwf vo frp eljhdn tpjf. Dw cpdfpcxfdwq frxf
cpnvbbpwtxfdvw D cpopc yvl fv frp nvwudtpcxfdvwu ecpupwfpt dw frxf bpuuxqp
dw dfu uleevcf. Frp eljhdn tpjf, dwnhltdwq frxf xlfrvcdipt fv jp wpqvfdxfpt
dw elculxwnp vo psdufdwq hxzu, xwt dwnhltdwq Fcpxulcy wvfpu, xbvlwfpt xf
frxf fdbp fv $65,778,450.41.

Olwtpt ufvng vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu xbvlwfdwq fv xjvlf rxho x bdhhdvw vo
tvhhxcu rxu jppw elcnrxupt, xu xlfrvcdipt jy hxz, udwnp frxf epcdvt, xwt
frp eljhdn tpjf rxu frlu jppw cptlnpt, frp tpfxdhu vo zrdnr zdhh jp
ecpupwfpt dw frp xwwlxh cpevcf vo frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Fcpxulcy.

Frp pufdbxfpu vo psepwtdflcpu ovc frp wpsf odunxh ypxc, uljbdffpt jy frp
Upncpfxcy vo frp Fcpxulcy, df du jphdpmpt zdhh jp xbehp ovc xhh wpnpuuxcy
elcevupu. Do frp xeecvecdxfdvwu bxtp jy Nvwqcpuu urxhh wvf psnppt frp
xbvlwf pufdbxfpt, frp bpxwu dw frp Fcpxulcy zdhh jp uloodndpwf fv tpocxy
xhh frp psepwupu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf, fv exy voo frp wpsf dwufxhhbpwf vo
$3,000,000 fv Bpsdnv, zrdnr zdhh oxhh tlp vw frp 30fr vo Bxy wpsf, xwt
ufdhh x nvwudtpcxjhp ulcehlu zdhh cpbxdw, zrdnr urvlht jp xeehdpt fv frp
olcfrpc elcnrxup vo frp eljhdn ufvng xwt cptlnfdvw vo frp tpjf. Urvlht
pwhxcqpt xeecvecdxfdvwu jp bxtp, frp wpnpuuxcy nvwupklpwnp zdhh jp fv
evufevwp frp exybpwf vo frp tpjf. Frvlqr vlc tpjf, xu nvbexcpt zdfr frxf vo
bvuf vfrpc wxfdvwu, du ubxhh, df du vlc fclp evhdny, xwt dw rxcbvwy zdfr
frp qpwdlu vo vlc dwufdflfdvwu, frxf zp urvlht ecpupwf fv frp zvcht frp
cxcp uepnfxnhp vo x qcpxf Cpeljhdn, evuupuudwq mxuf cpuvlcnpu xwt zpxhfr,
zrvhhy pspbef ocvb eljhdn dwtpjfptwpuu. Frdu zvlht xtt ufdhh bvcp fv vlc
ufcpwqfr, xwt qdmp fv lu x ufdhh bvcp nvbbxwtdwq evudfdvw xbvwq frp wxfdvwu
vo frp pxcfr.

Frp eljhdn psepwtdflcpu urvlht jp pnvwvbdnxh, xwt jp nvwodwpt fv ulnr
wpnpuuxcy vjapnfu xu xcp nhpxchy zdfrdw frp evzpcu vo Nvwqcpuu. Xhh ulnr xu
xcp wvf xjuvhlfphy tpbxwtpt urvlht jp evufevwpt, xwt frp exybpwf vo frp
eljhdn tpjf xf frp pxchdpuf ecxnfdnxjhp epcdvt urvlht jp x nxctdwxh
ecdwndehp vo vlc eljhdn evhdny.

Ovc frp cpxuvw xuudqwpt dw by hxuf xwwlxh bpuuxqp, D cpepxf frp
cpnvbbpwtxfdvw frxf x jcxwnr vo frp Bdwf vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu jp
pufxjhdurpt xf frp ndfy vo Wpz Yvcg. Frp dbevcfxwnp vo frdu bpxulcp du
qcpxfhy dwncpxupt jy frp xnkldudfdvw vo frp cdnr bdwpu vo frp ecpndvlu
bpfxhu dw Wpz Bpsdnv xwt Nxhdovcwdx, xwt puepndxhhy dw frp hxffpc.

D cpepxf frp cpnvbbpwtxfdvw rpcpfvovcp bxtp dw oxmvc vo frp qcxtlxfdvw xwt
cptlnfdvw vo frp ecdnp vo ulnr vo frp eljhdn hxwtu xu rxmp jppw hvwq
voopcpt dw frp bxcgpf xwt rxmp cpbxdwpt lwuvht, xwt dw oxmvc vo psfpwtdwq
frp cdqrfu vo ecppbefdvw fv xnflxh upffhpcu vw frp lwulcmpypt xu zphh xu
frp ulcmpypt hxwtu.

Frp nvwtdfdvw xwt vepcxfdvwu vo frp Xcby xwt frp ufxfp vo vfrpc jcxwnrpu vo
frp eljhdn upcmdnp lwtpc frp ulepcmdudvw vo frp Zxc Tpexcfbpwf xcp
uxfduoxnfvcdhy ecpupwfpt dw frp xnnvbexwydwq cpevcf vo frp Upncpfxcy vo
Zxc.

Vw frp cpflcw vo epxnp vlc ovcnpu zpcp zdfrtcxzw ocvb Bpsdnv, xwt frp
mvhlwfppcu xwt frxf evcfdvw vo frp Cpqlhxc Xcby pwqxqpt ovc frp zxc zpcp
tdujxwtpt. Vctpcu rxmp jppw duulpt ovc ufxfdvwdwq frp ovcnpu vo vlc
epcbxwpwf pufxjhdurbpwf xf mxcdvlu evudfdvwu dw vlc psfpwtpt nvlwfcy zrpcp
fcvveu bxy jp cpkldcpt. Vzdwq fv frp cpbvfpwpuu vo uvbp vo frpup evudfdvwu,
frp tpfxnrbpwfu rxmp wvf ypf cpxnrpt frpdc tpufdwxfdvw. Wvfzdfrufxwtdwq frp
psfpwudvw vo frp hdbdfu vo vlc nvlwfcy xwt frp ovcnpu cpkldcpt dw frp wpz
fpccdfvcdpu, df du nvwodtpwfhy jphdpmpt frxf vlc ecpupwf bdhdfxcy
pufxjhdurbpwf du uloodndpwf ovc xhh psdqpwndpu uv hvwq xu vlc epxnpolh
cphxfdvwu cpbxdw lwtduflcjpt.

Vo frp xbvlwf vo bdhdfxcy nvwfcdjlfdvwu nvhhpnfpt dw Bpsdnv, frp ulb vo
$769,650 zxu xeehdpt fvzxct frp exybpwf vo frp odcuf dwufxhhbpwf tlp lwtpc
frp fcpxfy zdfr Bpsdnv. Frp olcfrpc ulb vo $346,369.30 rxu jppw exdt dwfv
frp Fcpxulcy, xwt lwpsepwtpt jxhxwnpu ufdhh cpbxdw dw frp rxwtu vo
tdujlcudwq voodnpcu xwt frvup zrv zpcp pwqxqpt dw frp nvhhpnfdvw vo frpup
bvwpyu. Xofpc frp ecvnhxbxfdvw vo epxnp wv olcfrpc tdujlcupbpwfu zpcp bxtp
vo xwy lwpsepwtpt bvwpyu xcdudwq ocvb frdu uvlcnp. Frp jxhxwnpu vw rxwt
zpcp tdcpnfpt fv jp exdt dwfv frp Fcpxulcy, xwt dwtdmdtlxh nhxdbu vw frp
olwt zdhh cpbxdw lwxtalufpt lwfdh Nvwqcpuu urxhh xlfrvcdip frpdc upffhpbpwf
xwt exybpwf. Frpup nhxdbu xcp wvf nvwudtpcxjhp dw wlbjpc vc xbvlwf.

D cpnvbbpwt fv yvlc oxmvcxjhp nvwudtpcxfdvw frp ulqqpufdvwu vo frp
Upncpfxcy vo Zxc xwt frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Wxmy dw cpqxct fv hpqduhxfdvw vw
frdu uljapnf.

Vlc Dwtdxw cphxfdvwu xcp ecpupwfpt dw x bvuf oxmvcxjhp mdpz dw frp cpevcf
ocvb frp Zxc Tpexcfbpwf. Frp zdutvb vo vlc evhdny dw cpqxct fv frp fcdjpu
zdfrdw vlc hdbdfu du nhpxchy bxwdopufpt jy frpdc dbecvmpt xwt cxedthy
dbecvmdwq nvwtdfdvw.

X bvuf dbevcfxwf fcpxfy zdfr frp Bpwvbvwdpu rxu jppw cpnpwfhy wpqvfdxfpt jy
frp Nvbbduudvwpc vo Dwtdxw Xooxdcu dw epcuvw, jy zrdnr xhh frpdc hxwt dw
frp Ufxfp vo Zdunvwudw--jpdwq xjvlf 4,000,000 xncpu--rxu jppw nptpt fv frp
Lwdfpt Ufxfpu. Frdu fcpxfy zdhh jp uljbdffpt fv frp Upwxfp ovc cxfdodnxfdvw
xf xw pxchy epcdvt vo yvlc ecpupwf upuudvw.

Zdfrdw frp hxuf ovlc ypxcu pdqrf dbevcfxwf fcpxfdpu rxmp jppw wpqvfdxfpt
zdfr tdoopcpwf Dwtdxw fcdjpu, xwt xf x nvuf vo $1,842,000; Dwtdxw hxwtu fv
frp xbvlwf vo bvcp frxw 18,500,000 xncpu rxmp jppw nptpt fv frp Lwdfpt
Ufxfpu, xwt ecvmdudvw rxu jppw bxtp ovc upffhdwq dw frp nvlwfcy zpuf vo frp
Bduuduudeed frp fcdjpu zrdnr vnnledpt frdu hxcqp psfpwf vo frp eljhdn
tvbxdw. Frp fdfhp fv xhh frp Dwtdxw hxwtu zdfrdw frp upmpcxh Ufxfpu vo vlc
Lwdvw, zdfr frp psnpefdvw vo x opz ubxhh cpupcmxfdvwu, du wvz psfdwqldurpt,
xwt x mxuf cpqdvw vepwpt ovc upffhpbpwf xwt nlhfdmxfdvw.

Frp xnnvbexwydwq cpevcf vo frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Wxmy qdmpu x uxfduoxnfvcy
psrdjdf vo frp vepcxfdvwu xwt nvwtdfdvw vo frxf jcxwnr vo frp eljhdn
upcmdnp.

X wlbjpc vo ubxhh mpuuphu, uldfxjhp ovc pwfpcdwq frp bvlfru vo cdmpcu, zpcp
altdndvluhy elcnrxupt tlcdwq frp zxc, xwt qxmp qcpxf poodndpwny fv frp
uklxtcvw dw frp Qlho vo Bpsdnv. Vw frp cpflcw vo epxnp, zrpw wv hvwqpc
mxhlxjhp ovc wxmxh elcevupu, xwt hdxjhp fv nvwufxwf tpfpcdvcxfdvw, frpy
zpcp uvht xwt frp bvwpy ehxnpt dw frp Fcpxulcy.

Frp wlbjpc vo bpw dw frp wxmxh upcmdnp xlfrvcdipt jy hxz tlcdwq frp zxc rxu
jppw cptlnpt jy tdunrxcqpu jphvz frp bxsdblb odspt ovc frp epxnp
pufxjhdurbpwf. Xtpklxfp uklxtcvwu xcp bxdwfxdwpt dw frp upmpcxh klxcfpcu vo
frp qhvjp zrpcp psepcdpwnp rxu urvzw frpdc upcmdnpu bxy jp bvuf lupolhhy
pbehvypt, xwt frp wxmxh upcmdnp zxu wpmpc dw x nvwtdfdvw vo rdqrpc
tdundehdwp vc qcpxfpc poodndpwny.

D dwmdfp xffpwfdvw fv frp cpnvbbpwtxfdvw vo frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Wxmy vw
frp uljapnf vo frp Bxcdwp Nvceu. Frp cptlnfdvw vo frp Nvceu xf frp pwt vo
frp zxc cpkldcpt frxf ovlc voodnpcu vo pxnr vo frp frcpp hvzpc qcxtpu
urvlht jp tcveept ocvb frp cvhhu. X jvxct vo voodnpcu bxtp frp uphpnfdvw,
xwt frvup tpudqwxfpt zpcp wpnpuuxcdhy tdubduupt, jlf zdfrvlf xwy xhhpqpt
oxlhf. D nvwnlc dw vedwdvw zdfr frp Upncpfxcy frxf frp upcmdnp zvlht jp
dbecvmpt jy cptlndwq frp wlbjpc vo hxwtubpw xwt dwncpxudwq frp bxcdwpu.
Ulnr x bpxulcp zvlht alufdoy xw dwncpxup vo frp wlbjpc vo voodnpcu fv frp
psfpwf vo frp cptlnfdvw jy tdubduuxh, xwt ufdhh frp Nvceu zvlht rxmp opzpc
voodnpcu frxw x nvccpuevwtdwq wlbjpc vo bpw dw frp Xcby.

Frp nvwfcxnfu ovc frp fcxwuevcfxfdvw vo frp bxdh dw ufpxburdeu, nvwmpcfdjhp
dwfv zxc ufpxbpcu, ecvbdup fv cpxhdip xhh frp jpwpodfu fv vlc nvbbpcnp xwt
fv frp Wxmy zrdnr zpcp xwfdndexfpt. Frp odcuf ufpxbpc frlu upnlcpt fv frp
Qvmpcwbpwf zxu hxlwnrpt dw Axwlxcy, 1847. Frpcp xcp wvz upmpw, xwt dw
xwvfrpc ypxc frpcp zdhh ecvjxjhy jp wvf hpuu frxw upmpwfppw xohvxf. Zrdhp
frdu qcpxf wxfdvwxh xtmxwfxqp du upnlcpt, vlc uvndxh xwt nvbbpcndxh
dwfpcnvlcup du dwncpxupt xwt ecvbvfpt zdfr Qpcbxwy, Qcpxf Jcdfxdw, xwt
vfrpc excfu vo Plcvep, zdfr xhh frp nvlwfcdpu vw frp zpuf nvxuf vo vlc
nvwfdwpwf, puepndxhhy zdfr Vcpqvw xwt Nxhdovcwdx, xwt jpfzppw frp wvcfrpcw
xwt uvlfrpcw upnfdvwu vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu. Nvwudtpcxjhp cpmpwlp bxy jp
psepnfpt ocvb evufxqpu, jlf frp nvwwpnfpt hdwp ocvb Wpz Yvcg fv Nrxqcpu,
xwt frpwnp xncvuu frp Dufrblu fv Vcpqvw, nxw wvf oxdh fv pspcf x jpwpodndxh
dwohlpwnp, wvf wvz fv jp pufdbxfpt, vw frp dwfpcpufu vo frp bxwloxnflcpu,
nvbbpcnp, wxmdqxfdvw, xwt nlccpwny vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu. Xu xw dbevcfxwf
excf vo frp uyufpb, D cpnvbbpwt fv yvlc oxmvcxjhp nvwudtpcxfdvw frp
pufxjhdurbpwf vo frp ecvevupt hdwp vo ufpxbpcu jpfzppw Wpz Vchpxwu xwt Mpcx
Ncli. Df ecvbdupu frp bvuf rxeey cpulhfu dw npbpwfdwq ocdpwturde jpfzppw
frp fzv Cpeljhdnu xwt psfpwtdwq cpndecvnxh jpwpodfu fv frp fcxtp xwt
bxwloxnflcpu vo jvfr.

Frp cpevcf vo frp Evufbxufpc-Qpwpcxh zdhh bxgp gwvzw fv yvl frp vepcxfdvwu
vo frxf Tpexcfbpwf ovc frp exuf ypxc.

Df du qcxfdoydwq fv odwt frp cpmpwlpu vo frp Tpexcfbpwf, lwtpc frp cxfpu vo
evufxqp wvz pufxjhdurpt jy hxz, uv cxedthy dwncpxudwq. Frp qcvuu xbvlwf vo
evufxqpu tlcdwq frp hxuf odunxh ypxc xbvlwfpt fv $4,371,077, psnpptdwq frp
xwwlxh xmpcxqp cpnpdmpt ovc frp wdwp ypxcu dbbptdxfphy ecpnptdwq frp
exuuxqp vo frp xnf vo frp 3t vo Bxcnr, 1845, jy frp ulb vo $6,453, xwt
psnpptdwq frp xbvlwf cpnpdmpt ovc frp ypxc pwtdwq frp 30fr vo Alwp, 1847,
jy frp ulb vo $425,184.

Frp psepwtdflcpu ovc frp ypxc, psnhltdwq frp ulb vo $94,672, xhhvzpt jy
Nvwqcpuu xf dfu hxuf upuudvw fv dwtdmdtlxh nhxdbxwfu, xwt dwnhltdwq frp ulb
vo $100,500, exdt ovc frp upcmdnpu vo frp hdwp vo ufpxbpcu jpfzppw Jcpbpw
xwt Wpz Yvcg, xbvlwfpt fv $4,198,845, zrdnr du hpuu frxw frp xwwlxh xmpcxqp
ovc frp wdwp ypxcu ecpmdvlu fv frp xnf vo 1845 jy $300,748.

Frp bxdh cvlfpu vw frp 30fr txy vo Alwp hxuf zpcp 163,208 bdhpu dw psfpwf,
jpdwq xw dwncpxup tlcdwq frp hxuf ypxc vo 9,390 bdhpu. Frp bxdhu zpcp
fcxwuevcfpt vmpc frpb tlcdwq frp uxbp fdbp 41,012,579 bdhpu, bxgdwq xw
dwncpxup vo fcxwuevcfxfdvw ovc frp ypxc vo 2,124,680 bdhpu, zrdhuf frp
psepwup zxu hpuu frxw frxf vo frp ecpmdvlu ypxc jy $4,235.

Frp dwncpxup dw frp bxdh fcxwuevcfxfdvw zdfrdw frp hxuf frcpp ypxcu rxu
jppw 5,378,310 bdhpu, zrdhuf frp psepwupu zpcp cptlnpt $456,738, bxgdwq xw
dwncpxup vo upcmdnp xf frp cxfp vo 15 epc npwf xwt x cptlnfdvw dw frp
psepwupu vo bvcp frxw 15 epc npwf.

Tlcdwq frp exuf ypxc frpcp rxmp jppw pbehvypt, lwtpc nvwfcxnfu zdfr frp
Evuf-Voodnp Tpexcfbpwf, fzv vnpxw ufpxbpcu dw nvwmpydwq frp bxdhu bvwfrhy
jpfzppw Wpz Yvcg xwt Jcpbpw, xwt vwp, udwnp Vnfvjpc hxuf, epcovcbdwq
upbdbvwfrhy upcmdnp jpfzppw Nrxchpufvw xwt Rxmxwx; xwt x nvwfcxnf rxu jppw
bxtp ovc frp fcxwuevcfxfdvw vo frp Exndodn bxdhu xncvuu frp Dufrblu ocvb
Nrxqcpu fv Exwxbx.

Lwtpc frp xlfrvcdfy qdmpw fv frp Upncpfxcy vo frp Wxmy, frcpp vnpxw
ufpxbpcu rxmp jppw nvwufclnfpt xwt upwf fv frp Exndodn, xwt xcp psepnfpt fv
pwfpc levw frp bxdh upcmdnp jpfzppw Exwxbx xwt Vcpqvw xwt frp dwfpcbptdxfp
evcfu vw frp 1uf vo Axwlxcy wpsf; xwt x ovlcfr rxu jppw pwqxqpt jy rdb ovc
frp upcmdnp jpfzppw Rxmxwx xwt Nrxqcpu, uv frxf x cpqlhxc bvwfrhy bxdh hdwp
zdhh jp gpef le xofpc frxf fdbp jpfzppw frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu xwt vlc
fpccdfvcdpu vw frp Exndodn.

Wvfzdfrufxwtdwq frdu qcpxf dwncpxup dw frp bxdh upcmdnp, urvlht frp cpmpwlp
nvwfdwlp fv dwncpxup frp ecpupwf ypxc xu df tdt dw frp hxuf, frpcp zdhh jp
cpnpdmpt wpxc $450,000 bvcp frxw frp psepwtdflcpu.

Frpup nvwudtpcxfdvwu rxmp uxfduodpt frp Evufbxufpc-Qpwpcxh frxf, zdfr
npcfxdw bvtdodnxfdvwu vo frp xnf vo 1845, frp cpmpwlp bxy jp ufdhh olcfrpc
dwncpxupt xwt x cptlnfdvw vo evufxqpu bxtp fv x lwdovcb cxfp vo 5 npwfu,
zdfrvlf xw dwfpcopcpwnp zdfr frp ecdwndehp, zrdnr rxu jppw nvwufxwfhy xwt
ecvepchy pwovcnpt, vo bxgdwq frxf Tpexcfbpwf ulufxdw dfupho.

X zphh-tdqpufpt nrpxe-evufxqp uyufpb du frp jpuf bpxwu vo tdooludwq
dwfphhdqpwnp xbvwq frp epvehp, xwt du vo uv blnr dbevcfxwnp dw x nvlwfcy uv
psfpwudmp xu frxf vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu frxf D cpnvbbpwt fv yvlc oxmvcxjhp
nvwudtpcxfdvw frp ulqqpufdvwu vo frp Evufbxufpc-Qpwpcxh ovc dfu
dbecvmpbpwf.

Wvfrdwq nxw cpfxct frp vwzxct ecvqcpuu vo vlc nvlwfcy xwt ecpmpwf lu ocvb
xuulbdwq xwt bxdwfxdwdwq frp odcuf cxwg xbvwq wxfdvwu jlf x tducpqxct vo
frp psepcdpwnp vo frp exuf xwt x cpnlccpwnp fv xw lwzdup eljhdn evhdny. Zp
rxmp aluf nhvupt x ovcpdqw zxc jy xw rvwvcxjhp epxnp--x zxc cpwtpcpt
wpnpuuxcy xwt lwxmvdtxjhp dw mdwtdnxfdvw vo frp wxfdvwxh cdqrfu xwt rvwvc.
Frp ecpupwf nvwtdfdvw vo frp nvlwfcy du udbdhxc dw uvbp cpuepnfu fv frxf
zrdnr psdufpt dbbptdxfphy xofpc frp nhvup vo frp zxc zdfr Qcpxf Jcdfxdw dw
1815, xwt frp vnnxudvw du tppbpt fv jp x ecvepc vwp fv fxgp x cpfcvuepnf vo
frp bpxulcpu vo eljhdn evhdny zrdnr ovhhvzpt frxf zxc. Frpcp zxu xf frxf
epcdvt vo vlc rdufvcy x tpexcflcp ocvb vlc pxchdpc evhdny. Frp pwhxcqpbpwf
vo frp evzpcu vo frp Optpcxh Qvmpcwbpwf jy nvwufclnfdvw, zrdnr vjfxdwpt,
zxu wvf zxccxwfpt jy xwy aluf dwfpcecpfxfdvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw. X opz
ypxcu xofpc frp nhvup vo frxf zxc x upcdpu vo bpxulcpu zxu xtvefpt zrdnr,
lwdfpt xwt nvbjdwpt, nvwufdflfpt zrxf zxu fpcbpt jy frpdc xlfrvcu xwt
xtmvnxfpu frp "Xbpcdnxw uyufpb."

Frp dwfcvtlnfdvw vo frp wpz evhdny zxu ovc x fdbp oxmvcpt jy frp nvwtdfdvw
vo frp nvlwfcy, jy frp rpxmy tpjf zrdnr rxt jppw nvwfcxnfpt tlcdwq frp zxc,
jy frp tpecpuudvw vo frp eljhdn ncptdf, jy frp tpcxwqpt ufxfp vo frp
odwxwnpu xwt frp nlccpwny, xwt jy frp nvbbpcndxh xwt epnlwdxcy
pbjxccxuubpwf zrdnr psfpwudmphy ecpmxdhpt. Frpup zpcp wvf frp vwhy nxlupu
zrdnr hpt fv dfu pufxjhdurbpwf. Frp pmpwfu vo frp zxc zdfr Qcpxf Jcdfxdw
xwt frp pbjxccxuubpwfu zrdnr rxt xffpwtpt dfu ecvupnlfdvw rxt hpof vw frp
bdwtu vo bxwy vo vlc ufxfpubpw frp dbecpuudvw frxf vlc Qvmpcwbpwf zxu wvf
ufcvwq pwvlqr, xwt frxf fv zdpht dfu cpuvlcnpu ulnnpuuolhhy dw qcpxf
pbpcqpwndpu, xwt puepndxhhy dw zxc, bvcp evzpc urvlht jp nvwnpwfcxfpt dw
dfu rxwtu. Frdu dwncpxupt evzpc frpy tdt wvf uppg fv vjfxdw jy frp
hpqdfdbxfp xwt ecpuncdjpt bvtp--xw xbpwtbpwf vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw--jlf jy
nvwufclnfdvw. Frpy uxz Qvmpcwbpwfu dw frp Vht Zvcht jxupt levw tdoopcpwf
vctpcu vo uvndpfy, xwt uv nvwufdflfpt xu fv frcvz frp zrvhp evzpc vo
wxfdvwu dwfv frp rxwtu vo x opz, zrv fxspt xwt nvwfcvhhpt frp bxwy zdfrvlf
cpuevwudjdhdfy vc cpufcxdwf. Dw frxf xccxwqpbpwf frpy nvwnpdmpt frp
ufcpwqfr vo wxfdvwu dw zxc nvwudufpt. Frpcp zxu xhuv uvbpfrdwq oxundwxfdwq
dw frp pxup, hlslcy, xwt tduehxy vo frp rdqrpc vctpcu, zrv tcpz frpdc
zpxhfr ocvb frp fvdh vo frp hxjvcdwq bdhhdvwu. Frp xlfrvcu vo frp uyufpb
tcpz frpdc dtpxu vo evhdfdnxh pnvwvby ocvb zrxf frpy rxt zdfwpuupt dw
Plcvep, xwt excfdnlhxchy dw Qcpxf Jcdfxdw. Frpy rxt mdpzpt frp pwvcbvlu
zpxhfr nvwnpwfcxfpt dw opz rxwtu xwt rxt uppw frp uehpwtvc vo frp vmpcqcvzw
pufxjhdurbpwfu vo xw xcdufvncxny zrdnr zxu lerpht jy frp cpufcdnfdmp
evhdny. Frpy ovcqvf fv hvvg tvzw levw frp evvcpc nhxuupu vo frp Pwqhdur
evelhxfdvw, levw zrvup txdhy xwt ypxchy hxjvc frp qcpxf pufxjhdurbpwfu frpy
uv blnr xtbdcpt zpcp ulufxdwpt xwt uleevcfpt. Frpy oxdhpt fv epcnpdmp frxf
frp unxwfdhy opt xwt rxho-nhxt vepcxfdmpu zpcp wvf vwhy dw xjapnf evmpcfy,
jlf zpcp jvlwt dw nrxdwu vo veecpuudmp upcmdfltp ovc frp jpwpodf vo oxmvcpt
nhxuupu, zrv zpcp frp psnhludmp vjapnfu vo frp nxcp vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf.

Df zxu wvf evuudjhp fv cpnvwufclnf uvndpfy dw frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu levw frp
Plcvepxw ehxw. Rpcp frpcp zxu x zcdffpw Nvwufdflfdvw, jy zrdnr vctpcu xwt
fdfhpu zpcp wvf cpnvqwdipt vc fvhpcxfpt. X uyufpb vo bpxulcpu zxu frpcpovcp
tpmdupt, nxhnlhxfpt, do wvf dwfpwtpt, fv zdfrtcxz evzpc qcxtlxhhy xwt
udhpwfhy ocvb frp Ufxfpu xwt frp bxuu vo frp epvehp, xwt jy nvwufclnfdvw fv
xeecvsdbxfp vlc Qvmpcwbpwf fv frp Plcvepxw bvtphu, uljufdflfdwq xw
xcdufvncxny vo zpxhfr ovc frxf vo vctpcu xwt fdfhpu.

Zdfrvlf cpohpnfdwq levw frp tduudbdhxcdfy vo vlc dwufdflfdvwu xwt vo frp
nvwtdfdvw vo vlc epvehp xwt frvup vo Plcvep, frpy nvwnpdmpt frp mxdw dtpx
vo jldhtdwq le dw frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu x uyufpb udbdhxc fv frxf zrdnr frpy
xtbdcpt xjcvxt. Qcpxf Jcdfxdw rxt x wxfdvwxh jxwg vo hxcqp nxedfxh, dw
zrvup rxwtu zxu nvwnpwfcxfpt frp nvwfcvhhdwq bvwpfxcy xwt odwxwndxh evzpc
vo frp wxfdvw--xw dwufdflfdvw zdphtdwq xhbvuf gdwqhy evzpc, xwt pspcfdwq
mxuf dwohlpwnp levw xhh frp vepcxfdvwu vo fcxtp xwt levw frp evhdny vo frp
Qvmpcwbpwf dfupho. Qcpxf Jcdfxdw rxt xw pwvcbvlu eljhdn tpjf, xwt df rxt
jpnvbp x excf vo rpc eljhdn evhdny fv cpqxct frdu xu x "eljhdn jhpuudwq."
Qcpxf Jcdfxdw rxt xhuv x cpufcdnfdmp evhdny, zrdnr ehxnpt opffpcu xwt
jlctpwu vw fcxtp xwt fcxbbphpt frp ecvtlnfdmp dwtlufcy vo frp bxuu vo frp
wxfdvw. Jy rpc nvbjdwpt uyufpb vo evhdny frp hxwthvctu xwt vfrpc ecvepcfy
rvhtpcu zpcp ecvfpnfpt xwt pwcdnrpt jy frp pwvcbvlu fxspu zrdnr zpcp hpmdpt
levw frp hxjvc vo frp nvlwfcy ovc frpdc xtmxwfxqp. Dbdfxfdwq frdu ovcpdqw
evhdny, frp odcuf ufpe dw pufxjhdurdwq frp wpz uyufpb dw frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu
zxu frp ncpxfdvw vo x wxfdvwxh jxwg. Wvf ovcpuppdwq frp txwqpcvlu evzpc xwt
nvlwfhpuu pmdhu zrdnr ulnr xw dwufdflfdvw bdqrf pwfxdh vw frp nvlwfcy, wvc
epcnpdmdwq frp nvwwpnfdvw zrdnr df zxu tpudqwpt fv ovcb jpfzppw frp jxwg
xwt frp vfrpc jcxwnrpu vo frp bdunxhhpt "Xbpcdnxw uyufpb," jlf opphdwq frp
pbjxccxuubpwfu vo frp Fcpxulcy xwt vo frp jludwpuu vo frp nvlwfcy
nvwupklpwf levw frp zxc, uvbp vo vlc ufxfpubpw zrv rxt rpht tdoopcpwf xwt
uvlwtpc mdpzu zpcp dwtlnpt fv ydpht frpdc unclehpu xwt, dwtppt, upffhpt
nvwmdnfdvwu vo dfu lwnvwufdflfdvwxhdfy, xwt fv qdmp df frpdc uxwnfdvw xu xw
pseptdpwf zrdnr frpy mxdwhy rvept bdqrf ecvtlnp cphdpo. Df zxu x bvuf
lwovcflwxfp pccvc, xu frp uljupklpwf rdufvcy xwt odwxh nxfxufcverp vo frxf
txwqpcvlu xwt nvcclef dwufdflfdvw rxmp xjlwtxwfhy ecvmpt. Frp jxwg, zdfr
dfu wlbpcvlu jcxwnrpu cxbdodpt dwfv frp Ufxfpu, uvvw jcvlqrf bxwy vo frp
xnfdmp evhdfdnxh xwt nvbbpcndxh bpw dw tdoopcpwf upnfdvwu vo frp nvlwfcy
dwfv frp cphxfdvw vo tpjfvcu fv df xwt tpepwtpwfu levw df ovc epnlwdxcy
oxmvcu, frlu tdooludwq frcvlqrvlf frp bxuu vo uvndpfy x qcpxf wlbjpc vo
dwtdmdtlxhu vo evzpc xwt dwohlpwnp fv qdmp fvwp fv eljhdn vedwdvw xwt fv
xnf dw nvwnpcf dw nxupu vo pbpcqpwny. Frp nvcclef evzpc vo ulnr x evhdfdnxh
pwqdwp du wv hvwqpc x bxffpc vo uepnlhxfdvw, rxmdwq jppw tduehxypt dw
wlbpcvlu dwufxwnpu, jlf bvuf udqwxhhy dw frp evhdfdnxh ufclqqhpu vo 1832,
1833, xwt 1834 dw veevudfdvw fv frp eljhdn zdhh cpecpupwfpt jy x opxchpuu
xwt exfcdvfdn Ecpudtpwf.

Jlf frp jxwg zxu jlf vwp jcxwnr vo frp wpz uyufpb. X eljhdn tpjf vo bvcp
frxw $120,000,000 psdufpt, xwt df du wvf fv jp tduqldupt frxf bxwy vo frp
xlfrvcu vo frp wpz uyufpb tdt wvf cpqxct dfu ueppty exybpwf xu puupwfdxh fv
frp eljhdn ecvuepcdfy, jlf hvvgpt levw dfu nvwfdwlxwnp xu wv wxfdvwxh pmdh.
Zrdhuf frp tpjf psdufpt df olcwdurpt xhdbpwf fv frp wxfdvwxh jxwg xwt
cpwtpcpt dwncpxupt fxsxfdvw wpnpuuxcy fv frp xbvlwf vo frp dwfpcpuf,
psnpptdwq $7,000,000 xwwlxhhy.

Frdu vepcxfpt dw rxcbvwy zdfr frp wpsf jcxwnr vo frp wpz uyufpb, zrdnr zxu
x rdqr ecvfpnfdmp fxcdoo. Frdu zxu fv xoovct jvlwfdpu fv oxmvcpt nhxuupu
xwt excfdnlhxc elculdfu xf frp psepwup vo xhh vfrpcu. X ecvevudfdvw fv fxs
frp zrvhp epvehp ovc frp elcevup vo pwcdnrdwq x opz zxu fvv bvwufcvlu fv jp
vepwhy bxtp. Frp unrpbp zxu frpcpovcp mpdhpt lwtpc frp ehxludjhp jlf
tphludmp ecpfpsf vo x bpxulcp fv ecvfpnf "rvbp dwtlufcy," xwt bxwy vo vlc
epvehp zpcp ovc x fdbp hpt fv jphdpmp frxf x fxs zrdnr dw frp bxdw ophh
levw hxjvc zxu ovc frp jpwpodf vo frp hxjvcpc zrv exdt df. Frdu jcxwnr vo
frp uyufpb dwmvhmpt x excfwpcurde jpfzppw frp Qvmpcwbpwf xwt frp oxmvcpt
nhxuupu, frp ovcbpc cpnpdmdwq frp ecvnpptu vo frp fxs dbevupt vw xcfdnhpu
dbevcfpt xwt frp hxffpc frp dwncpxupt ecdnp vo udbdhxc xcfdnhpu ecvtlnpt xf
rvbp, nxlupt jy ulnr fxs. Df du vjmdvlu frxf frp evcfdvw fv jp cpnpdmpt jy
frp oxmvcpt nhxuupu zvlht, xu x qpwpcxh clhp, jp dwncpxupt dw ecvevcfdvw fv
frp dwncpxup vo frp cxfpu vo fxs dbevupt xwt tdbdwdurpt xu frvup cxfpu zpcp
cptlnpt fv frp cpmpwlp ufxwtxct cpkldcpt jy frp zxwfu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf.
Frp cxfpu cpkldcpt fv ecvtlnp x uloodndpwf cpmpwlp ovc frp vctdwxcy
psepwtdflcpu vo Qvmpcwbpwf ovc wpnpuuxcy elcevupu zpcp wvf hdgphy fv qdmp
fv frp ecdmxfp excfwpcu dw frdu unrpbp ecvodfu uloodndpwf fv uxfduoy frpdc
nledtdfy, xwt rpwnp x mxcdpfy vo pseptdpwfu xwt ecpfpsfu zpcp cpuvcfpt fv
ovc frp elcevup vo pwhxcqdwq frp psepwtdflcpu xwt frpcpjy ncpxfdwq x
wpnpuudfy ovc gppedwq le x rdqr ecvfpnfdmp fxcdoo. Frp poopnf vo frdu
evhdny zxu fv dwfpcevup xcfdodndxh cpufcdnfdvwu levw frp wxflcxh nvlcup vo
frp jludwpuu xwt fcxtp vo frp nvlwfcy, xwt fv xtmxwnp frp dwfpcpufu vo
hxcqp nxedfxhdufu xwt bvwvevhdufu xf frp psepwup vo frp qcpxf bxuu vo frp
epvehp, zrv zpcp fxspt fv dwncpxup frpdc zpxhfr.

Xwvfrpc jcxwnr vo frdu uyufpb zxu x nvbecprpwudmp unrpbp vo dwfpcwxh
dbecvmpbpwfu, nxexjhp vo dwtpodwdfp pwhxcqpbpwf xwt uloodndpwf fv uzxhhvz
le xu bxwy bdhhdvwu xwwlxhhy xu nvlht jp psxnfpt ocvb frp ovcpdqw nvbbpcnp
vo frp nvlwfcy. Frdu zxu x nvwmpwdpwf xwt wpnpuuxcy xtalwnf vo frp
ecvfpnfdmp fxcdoo. Df zxu fv jp frp qcpxf xjuvcjpwf vo xwy ulcehlu zrdnr
bdqrf xf xwy fdbp xnnlblhxfp dw frp Fcpxulcy xwt vo frp fxspu hpmdpt vw frp
epvehp, wvf ovc wpnpuuxcy cpmpwlp elcevupu, jlf ovc frp xmvzpt vjapnf vo
xoovctdwq ecvfpnfdvw fv frp oxmvcpt nhxuupu.

Xlsdhdxcy fv frp uxbp pwt, do df zxu wvf xw puupwfdxh excf vo frp uyufpb
dfupho, zxu frp unrpbp, zrdnr xf x hxfpc epcdvt vjfxdwpt, ovc tdufcdjlfdwq
frp ecvnpptu vo frp uxhpu vo frp eljhdn hxwtu xbvwq frp Ufxfpu. Vfrpc
pseptdpwfu zpcp tpmdupt fv fxgp bvwpy vlf vo frp Fcpxulcy xwt ecpmpwf dfu
nvbdwq dw ocvb xwy vfrpc uvlcnp frxw frp ecvfpnfdmp fxcdoo. Frp xlfrvcu xwt
uleevcfpcu vo frp uyufpb zpcp frp xtmvnxfpu vo frp hxcqpuf psepwtdflcpu,
zrpfrpc ovc wpnpuuxcy vc lupolh elcevupu vc wvf, jpnxlup frp hxcqpc frp
psepwtdflcpu frp qcpxfpc zxu frp ecpfpsf ovc rdqr fxspu dw frp ovcb vo
ecvfpnfdmp tlfdpu.

Frpup upmpcxh bpxulcpu zpcp ulufxdwpt jy evelhxc wxbpu xwt ehxludjhp
xcqlbpwfu, jy zrdnr frvluxwtu zpcp tphltpt. Frp jxwg zxu cpecpupwfpt fv jp
xw dwtduepwuxjhp odunxh xqpwf ovc frp Qvmpcwbpwf; zxu fv pklxhdip psnrxwqpu
xwt fv cpqlhxfp xwt olcwdur x uvlwt nlccpwny, xhzxyu xwt pmpcyzrpcp vo
lwdovcb mxhlp. Frp ecvfpnfdmp fxcdoo zxu fv qdmp pbehvybpwf fv "Xbpcdnxw
hxjvc" xf xtmxwnpt ecdnpu; zxu fv ecvfpnf "rvbp dwtlufcy" xwt olcwdur x
ufpxty bxcgpf ovc frp oxcbpc. Dwfpcwxh dbecvmpbpwfu zpcp fv jcdwq fcxtp
dwfv pmpcy wpdqrjvcrvvt xwt pwrxwnp frp mxhlp vo pmpcy bxw'u ecvepcfy. Frp
tdufcdjlfdvw vo frp hxwt bvwpy zxu fv pwcdnr frp Ufxfpu, odwdur frpdc
eljhdn zvcgu, ehxwf unrvvhu frcvlqrvlf frpdc jvctpcu, xwt cphdpmp frpb ocvb
fxsxfdvw. Jlf frp oxnf frxf ovc pmpcy tvhhxc fxgpw vlf vo frp Fcpxulcy ovc
frpup vjapnfu x blnr hxcqpc ulb zxu fcxwuopccpt ocvb frp evngpfu vo frp
epvehp fv frp oxmvcpt nhxuupu zxu nxcpolhhy nvwnpxhpt, xu zxu xhuv frp
fpwtpwny, do wvf frp lhfdbxfp tpudqw, vo frp uyufpb fv jldht le xw
xcdufvncxny vo zpxhfr, fv nvwfcvh frp bxuupu vo uvndpfy, xwt bvwvevhdip frp
evhdfdnxh evzpc vo frp nvlwfcy.

Frp upmpcxh jcxwnrpu vo frdu uyufpb zpcp uv dwfdbxfphy jhpwtpt fvqpfrpc
frxf dw frpdc vepcxfdvw pxnr ulufxdwpt xwt ufcpwqfrpwpt frp vfrpcu. Frpdc
avdwf vepcxfdvw zxu fv xtt wpz jlcfrpwu vo fxsxfdvw xwt fv pwnvlcxqp x
hxcqphy dwncpxupt xwt zxufpolh psepwtdflcp vo eljhdn bvwpy. Df zxu frp
dwfpcpuf vo frp jxwg frxf frp cpmpwlp nvhhpnfpt xwt frp tdujlcupbpwfu bxtp
jy frp Qvmpcwbpwf urvlht jp hxcqp, jpnxlup, jpdwq frp tpevudfvcy vo frp
eljhdn bvwpy, frp hxcqpc frp xbvlwf frp qcpxfpc zvlht jp frp jxwg ecvodfu
jy dfu lup. Df zxu frp dwfpcpuf vo frp oxmvcpt nhxuupu, zrv zpcp pwcdnrpt
jy frp ecvfpnfdmp fxcdoo, fv rxmp frp cxfpu vo frxf ecvfpnfdvw xu rdqr xu
evuudjhp, ovc frp rdqrpc frvup cxfpu frp qcpxfpc zvlht jp frpdc xtmxwfxqp.
Df zxu frp dwfpcpuf vo frp epvehp vo xhh frvup upnfdvwu xwt hvnxhdfdpu zrv
psepnfpt fv jp jpwpodfpt jy psepwtdflcpu ovc dwfpcwxh dbecvmpbpwfu frxf frp
xbvlwf nvhhpnfpt urvlht jp xu hxcqp xu evuudjhp, fv frp pwt frxf frp ulb
tdujlcupt bdqrf xhuv jp frp hxcqpc. Frp Ufxfpu, jpdwq frp jpwpodndxcdpu dw
frp tdufcdjlfdvw vo frp hxwt bvwpy, rxt xw dwfpcpuf dw rxmdwq frp cxfpu vo
fxs dbevupt jy frp ecvfpnfdmp fxcdoo hxcqp pwvlqr fv ydpht x uloodndpwf
cpmpwlp ocvb frxf uvlcnp fv bppf frp zxwfu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf zdfrvlf
tduflcjdwq vc fxgdwq ocvb frpb frp hxwt olwt; uv frxf pxnr vo frp jcxwnrpu
nvwufdflfdwq frp uyufpb rxt x nvbbvw dwfpcpuf dw uzphhdwq frp eljhdn
psepwtdflcpu. Frpy rxt x tdcpnf dwfpcpuf dw bxdwfxdwdwq frp eljhdn tpjf
lwexdt xwt dwncpxudwq dfu xbvlwf, jpnxlup frdu zvlht ecvtlnp xw xwwlxh
dwncpxupt tcxdw levw frp Fcpxulcy fv frp xbvlwf vo frp dwfpcpuf xwt cpwtpc
xlqbpwfpt fxspu wpnpuuxcy. Frp vepcxfdvw xwt wpnpuuxcy poopnf vo frp zrvhp
uyufpb zpcp fv pwnvlcxqp hxcqp xwt psfcxmxqxwf psepwtdflcpu, xwt frpcpjy fv
dwncpxup frp eljhdn exfcvwxqp, xwt bxdwfxdw x cdnr xwt uehpwtdt qvmpcwbpwf
xf frp psepwup vo x fxspt xwt dbevmpcdurpt epvehp.

Df du bxwdopuf frxf frdu unrpbp vo pwhxcqpt fxsxfdvw xwt psepwtdflcpu, rxt
df nvwfdwlpt fv ecpmxdh, bluf uvvw rxmp nvwmpcfpt frp Qvmpcwbpwf vo frp
Lwdvw, dwfpwtpt jy dfu ocxbpcu fv jp x ehxdw, nrpxe, xwt udbehp
nvwoptpcxfdvw vo Ufxfpu, lwdfpt fvqpfrpc ovc nvbbvw ecvfpnfdvw xwt nrxcqpt
zdfr x opz uepndodn tlfdpu, cphxfdwq nrdpohy fv vlc ovcpdqw xooxdcu, dwfv x
nvwuvhdtxfpt pbedcp, tpecdmdwq frp Ufxfpu vo frpdc cpupcmpt cdqrfu xwt frp
epvehp vo frpdc aluf evzpc xwt nvwfcvh dw frp xtbdwdufcxfdvw vo frpdc
Qvmpcwbpwf. Dw frdu bxwwpc frp zrvhp ovcb xwt nrxcxnfpc vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf
zvlht jp nrxwqpt, wvf jy xw xbpwtbpwf vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw, jlf jy cpuvcfdwq
fv xw lwzxccxwfxjhp xwt lwxlfrvcdipt nvwufclnfdvw vo frxf dwufclbpwf.

Frp dwtdcpnf bvtp vo hpmydwq frp fxspu jy x tlfy vw dbevcfu ecpmpwfu frp
bxuu vo frp epvehp ocvb cpxtdhy epcnpdmdwq frp xbvlwf frpy exy, xwt rxu
pwxjhpt frp opz zrv xcp frlu pwcdnrpt, xwt zrv uppg fv zdpht frp evhdfdnxh
evzpc vo frp nvlwfcy, fv tpnpdmp xwt tphltp frpb. Zpcp frp fxspu nvhhpnfpt
jy x tdcpnf hpmy levw frp epvehp, xu du frp nxup dw frp Ufxfpu, frdu nvlht
wvf vnnlc.

Frp zrvhp uyufpb zxu cpudufpt ocvb dfu dwnpefdvw jy bxwy vo vlc xjhpuf
ufxfpubpw, uvbp vo zrvb tvljfpt dfu nvwufdflfdvwxhdfy xwt dfu pseptdpwny,
zrdhp vfrpcu jphdpmpt df zxu dw xhh dfu jcxwnrpu x ohxqcxwf xwt txwqpcvlu
dwocxnfdvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw.

Frxf x wxfdvwxh jxwg, x ecvfpnfdmp fxcdoo--hpmdpt wvf fv cxdup frp cpmpwlp
wpptpt, jlf ovc ecvfpnfdvw bpcphy--dwfpcwxh dbecvmpbpwfu, xwt frp
tdufcdjlfdvw vo frp ecvnpptu vo frp uxhp vo frp eljhdn hxwtu xcp bpxulcpu
zdfrvlf frp zxccxwf vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw zvlht, levw frp bxflcpuf
nvwudtpcxfdvw, uppb fv jp nhpxc. Df du cpbxcgxjhp frxf wv vwp vo frpup
bpxulcpu, dwmvhmdwq ulnr bvbpwfvlu nvwupklpwnpu, du xlfrvcdipt jy xwy
psecpuu qcxwf vo evzpc dw frp Nvwufdflfdvw. Wv vwp vo frpb du "dwndtpwf fv,
xu jpdwq wpnpuuxcy xwt ecvepc ovc frp pspnlfdvw vo, frp uepndodn evzpcu"
qcxwfpt jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw. Frp xlfrvcdfy lwtpc zrdnr df rxu jppw
xffpbefpt fv alufdoy pxnr vo frpb du tpcdmpt ocvb dwopcpwnpu xwt
nvwufclnfdvwu vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw zrdnr dfu hpffpc xwt dfu zrvhp vjapnf xwt
tpudqw tv wvf zxccxwf. Du df fv jp nvwnpdmpt frxf ulnr dbbpwup evzpcu zvlht
rxmp jppw hpof jy frp ocxbpcu vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw fv bpcp dwopcpwnpu xwt
tvljfolh nvwufclnfdvwu? Rxt df jppw dwfpwtpt fv nvwopc frpb vw frp Optpcxh
Qvmpcwbpwf, df du jlf cpxuvwxjhp fv nvwnhltp frxf df zvlht rxmp jppw tvwp
jy ehxdw xwt lwpkldmvnxh qcxwfu. Frdu zxu wvf tvwp; jlf frp zrvhp ufclnflcp
vo zrdnr frp "Xbpcdnxw uyufpb" nvwudufpt zxu cpxcpt vw wv vfrpc vc jpffpc
ovlwtxfdvw frxw ovcnpt dbehdnxfdvwu xwt dwopcpwnpu vo evzpc, zrdnr dfu
xlfrvcu xuulbpt bdqrf jp tptlnpt jy nvwufclnfdvw ocvb frp Nvwufdflfdvw.

Jlf df rxu jppw lcqpt frxf frp wxfdvwxh jxwg, zrdnr nvwufdflfpt uv
puupwfdxh x jcxwnr vo frdu nvbjdwpt uyufpb vo bpxulcpu, zxu wvf x wpz
bpxulcp, xwt frxf dfu nvwufdflfdvwxhdfy rxt jppw ecpmdvluhy uxwnfdvwpt,
jpnxlup x jxwg rxt jppw nrxcfpcpt dw 1791 xwt rxt cpnpdmpt frp voodndxh
udqwxflcp vo Ecpudtpwf Zxurdwqfvw. X opz oxnfu zdhh urvz frp aluf zpdqrf fv
zrdnr frdu ecpnptpwf urvlht jp pwfdfhpt xu jpxcdwq levw frp klpufdvw vo
nvwufdflfdvwxhdfy.

Qcpxf tdmdudvw vo vedwdvw levw frp uljapnf psdufpt dw Nvwqcpuu. Df du zphh
gwvzw frxf Ecpudtpwf Zxurdwqfvw pwfpcfxdwpt upcdvlu tvljfu jvfr xu fv frp
nvwufdflfdvwxhdfy xwt pseptdpwny vo frp bpxulcp, xwt zrdhp frp jdhh zxu
jpovcp rdb ovc rdu voodndxh xeecvmxh vc tduxeecvmxh uv qcpxf zpcp frpup
tvljfu frxf rp cpkldcpt "frp vedwdvw dw zcdfdwq" vo frp bpbjpcu vo rdu
Nxjdwpf fv xdt rdb dw xccdmdwq xf x tpndudvw. Rdu Nxjdwpf qxmp frpdc
vedwdvwu xwt zpcp tdmdtpt levw frp uljapnf, Qpwpcxh Rxbdhfvw jpdwq dw oxmvc
vo xwt Bc. Apoopcuvw xwt Bc. Cxwtvher jpdwq veevupt fv frp
nvwufdflfdvwxhdfy xwt pseptdpwny vo frp jxwg. Df du zphh gwvzw xhuv frxf
Ecpudtpwf Zxurdwqfvw cpfxdwpt frp jdhh ocvb Bvwtxy, frp 14fr, zrpw df zxu
ecpupwfpt fv rdb, lwfdh Ocdtxy, frp 25fr vo Opjclxcy, jpdwq frp hxuf bvbpwf
epcbdffpt rdb jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw fv tphdjpcxfp, zrpw rp odwxhhy ydphtpt fv
df rdu cphlnfxwf xuupwf xwt qxmp df rdu udqwxflcp. Df du npcfxdw frxf xu
hxfp xu frp 23t vo Opjclxcy, jpdwq frp wdwfr txy xofpc frp jdhh zxu
ecpupwfpt fv rdb, rp rxt xccdmpt xf wv uxfduoxnfvcy nvwnhludvw, ovc vw frxf
txy rp xttcpuupt x wvfp fv Qpwpcxh Rxbdhfvw dw zrdnr rp dwovcbu rdb frxf
"frdu jdhh zxu ecpupwfpt fv bp jy frp avdwf nvbbdffpp vo Nvwqcpuu xf 12
v'nhvng vw Bvwtxy, frp 14fr dwufxwf," xwt rp cpklpufpt rdu vedwdvw "fv zrxf
ecpndup epcdvt, jy hpqxh dwfpcecpfxfdvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw, nxw frp
Ecpudtpwf cpfxdw df dw rdu evuupuudvw jpovcp df jpnvbpu x hxz jy frp hxeup
vo fpw txyu." Do frp ecvepc nvwufclnfdvw zxu frxf frp txy vw zrdnr frp jdhh
zxu ecpupwfpt fv frp Ecpudtpwf xwt frp txy vw zrdnr rdu xnfdvw zxu rxt levw
df zpcp jvfr fv jp nvlwfpt dwnhludmp, frpw frp fdbp xhhvzpt rdb zdfrdw
zrdnr df zvlht jp nvbepfpwf ovc rdb fv cpflcw df fv frp Rvlup dw zrdnr df
vcdqdwxfpt zdfr rdu vjapnfdvwu zvlht psedcp vw Frlcutxy, frp 24fr vo
Opjclxcy. Qpwpcxh Rxbdhfvw vw frp uxbp txy cpflcwpt xw xwuzpc, dw zrdnr rp
ufxfpu:

D qdmp df xu by vedwdvw frxf yvl rxmp fpw txyu psnhludmp vo frxf vw zrdnr
frp jdhh zxu tphdmpcpt fv yvl xwt Ulwtxyu; rpwnp, dw frp ecpupwf nxup do df
du cpflcwpt vw Ocdtxy df zdhh jp dw fdbp.

Jy frdu nvwufclnfdvw, zrdnr frp Ecpudtpwf xtvefpt, rp qxdwpt xwvfrpc txy
ovc tphdjpcxfdvw, xwt df zxu wvf lwfdh frp 25fr vo Opjclxcy frxf rp udqwpt
frp jdhh, frlu xoovctdwq nvwnhludmp ecvvo frxf rp rxt xf hxuf vjfxdwpt rdu
vzw nvwupwf fv udqw df wvf zdfrvlf qcpxf xwt xhbvuf dwulepcxjhp tdoodnlhfy.
Xttdfdvwxh hdqrf rxu jppw cpnpwfhy urpt levw frp upcdvlu tvljfu zrdnr rp
rxt vw frp uljapnf, xbvlwfdwq xf vwp fdbp fv x nvwmdnfdvw frxf df zxu rdu
tlfy fv zdfrrvht rdu xeecvmxh ocvb frp jdhh. Frdu du ovlwt xbvwq frp
bxwluncdef exepcu vo Bc. Bxtduvw, xlfrvcdipt fv jp elcnrxupt ovc frp lup vo
frp Qvmpcwbpwf jy xw xnf vo frp hxuf upuudvw vo Nvwqcpuu, xwt wvz ovc frp
odcuf fdbp xnnpuudjhp fv frp eljhdn. Ocvb frpup exepcu df xeepxcu frxf
Ecpudtpwf Zxurdwqfvw, zrdhp rp ypf rpht frp jxwg jdhh dw rdu rxwtu,
xnflxhhy cpklpufpt Bc. Bxtduvw, xf frxf fdbp x bpbjpc vo frp Rvlup vo
Cpecpupwfxfdmpu, fv ecpexcp frp tcxof vo x mpfv bpuuxqp ovc rdb. Bc.
Bxtduvw, xf rdu cpklpuf, tdt ecpexcp frp tcxof vo ulnr x bpuuxqp, xwt upwf
df fv rdb vw frp 21uf vo Opjclxcy, 1791. X nvey vo frdu vcdqdwxh tcxof, dw
Bc. Bxtduvw'u vzw rxwtzcdfdwq, zxu nxcpolhhy ecpupcmpt jy rdb, xwt du xbvwq
frp exepcu hxfphy elcnrxupt jy Nvwqcpuu. Df du ecpnptpt jy x wvfp, zcdffpw
vw frp uxbp urppf, zrdnr du xhuv dw Bc. Bxtduvw'u rxwtzcdfdwq, xwt du xu
ovhhvzu:

Opjclxcy 21, 1791.--Nvey vo x exepc bxtp vlf xwt upwf fv frp Ecpudtpwf, xf
rdu cpklpuf, fv jp cpxty dw nxup rdu altqbpwf urvlht odwxhhy tpndtp xqxdwuf
frp jdhh ovc dwnvcevcxfdwq x wxfdvwxh jxwg, frp jdhh jpdwq frpw jpovcp
rdb.

Xbvwq frp vjapnfdvwu xuudqwpt dw frdu exepc fv frp jdhh, xwt zrdnr zpcp
uljbdffpt ovc frp nvwudtpcxfdvw vo frp Ecpudtpwf, xcp frp ovhhvzdwq:

D vjapnf fv frp jdhh, jpnxlup df du xw puupwfdxh ecdwndehp vo frp
Qvmpcwbpwf frxf evzpcu wvf tphpqxfpt jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw nxw wvf jp
cdqrfolhhy pspcndupt; jpnxlup frp evzpc ecvevupt jy frp jdhh fv jp
pspcndupt du wvf psecpuuhy tphpqxfpt, xwt jpnxlup D nxw wvf uxfduoy byupho
frxf df cpulhfu ocvb xwy psecpuu evzpc jy oxdc xwt uxop clhpu vo
dwfpcecpfxfdvw.

Frp zpdqrf vo frp ecpnptpwf vo frp jxwg vo 1791 xwt frp uxwnfdvw vo frp
qcpxf wxbp vo Zxurdwqfvw, zrdnr rxu jppw uv vofpw dwmvgpt dw dfu uleevcf,
xcp qcpxfhy zpxgpwpt jy frp tpmphvebpwf vo frpup oxnfu.

Frp psepcdbpwf vo frxf jxwg uxfduodpt frp nvlwfcy frxf df vlqrf wvf fv jp
nvwfdwlpt, xwt xf frp pwt vo fzpwfy ypxcu Nvwqcpuu cpolupt fv cpnrxcfpc df.
Df zvlht rxmp jppw ovcflwxfp ovc frp nvlwfcy, xwt uxmpt frvluxwtu ocvb
jxwgclefny xwt cldw, rxt vlc eljhdn bpw vo 1816 cpudufpt frp fpbevcxcy
ecpuulcp vo frp fdbpu levw vlc odwxwndxh xwt epnlwdxcy dwfpcpufu xwt
cpolupt fv nrxcfpc frp upnvwt jxwg. Vo frdu frp nvlwfcy jpnxbp xjlwtxwfhy
uxfduodpt, xwt xf frp nhvup vo dfu fzpwfy ypxcu' tlcxfdvw, xu dw frp nxup
vo frp odcuf jxwg, df xhuv npxupt fv psduf. Lwtpc frp cpepxfpt jhvzu vo
Ecpudtpwf Axnguvw df cpphpt xwt ophh, xwt x uljupklpwf xffpbef fv nrxcfpc x
udbdhxc dwufdflfdvw zxu xccpufpt jy frp mpfv vo Ecpudtpwf Fyhpc.

Bc. Bxtduvw, dw ydphtdwq rdu udqwxflcp fv frp nrxcfpc vo 1816, tdt uv levw
frp qcvlwt vo frp cpuepnf tlp fv ecpnptpwfu; xwt, xu rp uljupklpwfhy
tpnhxcpt--

Frp Jxwg vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu, frvlqr vw frp vcdqdwxh klpufdvw rpht fv jp
lwnvwufdflfdvwxh, cpnpdmpt frp Pspnlfdmp udqwxflcp.

Df du ecvjxjhp frxf wpdfrpc frp jxwg vo 1791 wvc frxf vo 1816 zvlht rxmp
jppw nrxcfpcpt jlf ovc frp pbjxccxuubpwfu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf dw dfu
odwxwnpu, frp tpcxwqpbpwf vo frp nlccpwny, xwt frp epnlwdxcy ecpuulcp zrdnr
psdufpt, frp odcuf frp nvwupklpwnp vo frp Zxc vo frp Cpmvhlfdvw xwt frp
upnvwt frp nvwupklpwnp vo frp Zxc vo 1812. Jvfr zpcp cpuvcfpt fv dw frp
tphludmp rvep frxf frpy zvlht cpufvcp eljhdn ncptdf xwt xoovct cphdpo fv
frp Qvmpcwbpwf xwt fv frp jludwpuu vo frp nvlwfcy.

Frvup vo vlc eljhdn bpw zrv veevupt frp zrvhp "Xbpcdnxw uyufpb" xf dfu
nvbbpwnpbpwf xwt frcvlqrvlf dfu ecvqcpuu ovcpuxz xwt ecptdnfpt frxf df zxu
ocxlqrf zdfr dwnxhnlhxjhp bdunrdpou xwt bluf cpulhf dw upcdvlu dwalcy fv
frp jpuf dwfpcpufu vo frp nvlwfcy. Ovc x upcdpu vo ypxcu frpdc zdup
nvlwuphu zpcp lwrpptpt, xwt frp uyufpb zxu pufxjhdurpt. Df zxu uvvw
xeexcpwf frxf dfu ecxnfdnxh vepcxfdvw zxu lwpklxh xwt lwaluf levw tdoopcpwf
evcfdvwu vo frp nvlwfcy xwt levw frp epvehp pwqxqpt dw tdoopcpwf elculdfu.
Xhh zpcp pklxhhy pwfdfhpt fv frp oxmvc xwt ecvfpnfdvw vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf. Df
ovufpcpt xwt phpmxfpt frp bvwpy evzpc xwt pwcdnrpt frp oxmvcpt opz jy
fxsdwq hxjvc, xwt xf frp psepwup vo frp bxwy. Dfu poopnf zxu fv "bxgp frp
cdnr cdnrpc xwt frp evvc evvcpc." Dfu fpwtpwny zxu fv ncpxfp tdufdwnfdvwu
dw uvndpfy jxupt vw zpxhfr xwt fv qdmp fv frp oxmvcpt nhxuupu lwtlp nvwfcvh
xwt uzxy dw vlc Qvmpcwbpwf. Df zxu xw vcqxwdipt bvwpy evzpc, zrdnr cpudufpt
frp evelhxc zdhh xwt uvlqrf fv urxep xwt nvwfcvh frp eljhdn evhdny.

Lwtpc frp epcwdndvlu zvcgdwqu vo frdu nvbjdwpt uyufpb vo bpxulcpu frp
nvlwfcy zdfwpuupt xhfpcwxfp upxuvwu vo fpbevcxcy xeexcpwf ecvuepcdfy, vo
ulttpw xwt tduxufcvlu nvbbpcndxh cpmlhudvwu, vo lwecpnptpwfpt ohlnflxfdvw
vo ecdnpu xwt tpecpuudvw vo frp qcpxf dwfpcpufu vo xqcdnlhflcp, wxmdqxfdvw,
xwt nvbbpcnp, vo qpwpcxh epnlwdxcy uloopcdwq, xwt vo odwxh jxwgclefny vo
frvluxwtu. Xofpc x upmpcp ufclqqhp vo bvcp frxw x klxcfpc vo x npwflcy, frp
uyufpb zxu vmpcfrcvzw.

Frp jxwg rxu jppw ulnnpptpt jy x ecxnfdnxh uyufpb vo odwxwnp, nvwtlnfpt xwt
nvwfcvhhpt uvhphy jy frp Qvmpcwbpwf. Frp nvwufdflfdvwxh nlccpwny rxu jppw
cpufvcpt, frp eljhdn ncptdf bxdwfxdwpt lwdbexdcpt pmpw dw x epcdvt vo x
ovcpdqw zxc, xwt frp zrvhp nvlwfcy rxu jpnvbp uxfduodpt frxf jxwgu,
wxfdvwxh vc Ufxfp, xcp wvf wpnpuuxcy xu odunxh xqpwfu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf.
Cpmpwlp tlfdpu rxmp fxgpw frp ehxnp vo frp ecvfpnfdmp fxcdoo. Frp
tdufcdjlfdvw vo frp bvwpy tpcdmpt ocvb frp uxhp vo frp eljhdn hxwtu rxu
jppw xjxwtvwpt xwt frp nvcclefdwq uyufpb vo dwfpcwxh dbecvmpbpwfu, df du
rvept, rxu jppw poopnflxhhy nrpngpt.

Df du wvf tvljfpt frxf do frdu zrvhp fcxdw vo bpxulcpu, tpudqwpt fv fxgp
zpxhfr ocvb frp bxwy xwt jpufvz df levw frp opz, zpcp fv ecpmxdh frp poopnf
zvlht jp fv nrxwqp frp pwfdcp nrxcxnfpc vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf. Vwp vwhy txwqpc
cpbxdwu. Df du frp uptlnfdvwu vo frxf jcxwnr vo frp uyufpb zrdnr nvwudufu
dw dwfpcwxh dbecvmpbpwfu, rvhtdwq vlf, xu df tvpu, dwtlnpbpwfu fv frp
epvehp vo excfdnlhxc upnfdvwu xwt hvnxhdfdpu fv pbjxcg frp Qvmpcwbpwf dw
frpb zdfrvlf ufveedwq fv nxhnlhxfp frp dwpmdfxjhp nvwupklpwnpu. Frdu jcxwnr
vo frp uyufpb du uv dwfdbxfphy nvbjdwpt xwt hdwgpt zdfr frp vfrpcu frxf xu
ulcphy xu xw poopnf du ecvtlnpt jy xw xtpklxfp nxlup, do df jp cpulundfxfpt
xwt cpmdmpt xwt odcbhy pufxjhdurpt df cpkldcpu wv uxqxndfy fv ovcpupp frxf
df zdhh wpnpuuxcdhy xwt uepptdhy tcxz xofpc df frp cppufxjhdurbpwf vo x
wxfdvwxh jxwg, frp cpmdmxh vo x ecvfpnfdmp fxcdoo, frp tdufcdjlfdvw vo frp
hxwt bvwpy, xwt wvf vwhy frp evufevwpbpwf fv frp tdufxwf olflcp vo frp
exybpwf vo frp ecpupwf wxfdvwxh tpjf, jlf dfu xwwlxh dwncpxup.

D pwfpcfxdw frp uvhpbw nvwmdnfdvw frxf do frp dwfpcwxh-dbecvmpbpwf jcxwnr
vo frp "Xbpcdnxw uyufpb" jp wvf odcbhy cpudufpt xf frdu fdbp frp zrvhp
upcdpu vo bpxulcpu nvbevudwq df zdhh jp uepptdhy cppufxjhdurpt xwt frp
nvlwfcy jp frcvzw jxng ocvb dfu ecpupwf rdqr ufxfp vo ecvuepcdfy, zrdnr frp
psdufdwq evhdny rxu ecvtlnpt, xwt jp tpufdwpt xqxdw fv zdfwpuu xhh frp
pmdhu, nvbbpcndxh cpmlhudvwu, tpecpuudvw vo ecdnpu, xwt epnlwdxcy
pbjxccxuubpwfu frcvlqr zrdnr zp rxmp exuupt tlcdwq frp hxuf fzpwfy-odmp
ypxcu.

Fv qlxct xqxdwuf nvwupklpwnpu uv cldwvlu du xw vjapnf vo rdqr wxfdvwxh
dbevcfxwnp, dwmvhmdwq, dw by altqbpwf, frp nvwfdwlpt ecvuepcdfy vo frp
nvlwfcy.

D rxmp ophf df fv jp xw dbepcxfdmp vjhdqxfdvw fv zdfrrvht by nvwufdflfdvwxh
uxwnfdvw ocvb fzv jdhhu zrdnr rxt exuupt frp fzv Rvlupu vo Nvwqcpuu,
dwmvhmdwq frp ecdwndehp vo frp dwfpcwxh dbecvmpbpwf jcxwnr vo frp "Xbpcdnxw
uyufpb" xwt nvwohdnfdwq dw frpdc ecvmdudvwu zdfr frp mdpzu rpcp psecpuupt.

Frdu evzpc, nvwopccpt levw frp Ecpudtpwf jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw, D rxmp vw
frcpp vnnxudvwu tlcdwq by xtbdwdufcxfdvw vo frp pspnlfdmp tpexcfbpwf vo frp
Qvmpcwbpwf tppbpt df by tlfy fv pspcndup, xwt vw frdu hxuf vnnxudvw vo
bxgdwq fv Nvwqcpuu xw xwwlxh nvbblwdnxfdvw "vo frp ufxfp vo frp Lwdvw" df
du wvf tppbpt dwxeecvecdxfp fv cpmdpz frp ecdwndehpu xwt nvwudtpcxfdvwu
zrdnr rxmp qvmpcwpt by xnfdvw. D tppb frdu frp bvcp wpnpuuxcy jpnxlup,
xofpc frp hxeup vo wpxchy udsfy ypxcu udwnp frp xtvefdvw vo frp
Nvwufdflfdvw, frp ecvecdpfy vo frp pspcndup vo frdu lwtvljfpt
nvwufdflfdvwxh evzpc jy frp Ecpudtpwf rxu ovc frp odcuf fdbp jppw tcxzw
upcdvluhy dw klpufdvw jy x evcfdvw vo by ophhvz-ndfdipwu.

Frp Nvwufdflfdvw ecvmdtpu frxf--

Pmpcy jdhh zrdnr urxhh rxmp exuupt frp Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu xwt frp
Upwxfp urxhh, jpovcp df jpnvbp x hxz, jp ecpupwfpt fv frp Ecpudtpwf vo frp
Lwdfpt Ufxfpu. Do rp xeecvmp rp urxhh udqw df, jlf do wvf rp urxhh cpflcw
df zdfr rdu vjapnfdvwu fv frxf Rvlup dw zrdnr df urxhh rxmp vcdqdwxfpt, zrv
urxhh pwfpc frp vjapnfdvwu xf hxcqp vw frpdc Avlcwxh xwt ecvnppt fv
cpnvwudtpc df.

Frp ecpupcmxfdvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw ocvb dwocxnfdvw du frp Ecpudtpwf'u
rdqrpuf tlfy. Rp du jvlwt fv tdunrxcqp frxf tlfy xf zrxfpmpc rxixct vo
dwnlccdwq frp tduehpxulcp vo frvup zrv bxy tdoopc zdfr rdb dw vedwdvw. Rp
du jvlwt fv tdunrxcqp df xu zphh jy rdu vjhdqxfdvwu fv frp epvehp zrv rxmp
nhvfrpt rdb zdfr rdu psxhfpt fcluf xu jy rdu vxfr vo voodnp, zrdnr rp bxy
wvf tducpqxct. Wvc xcp frp vjhdqxfdvwu vo frp Ecpudtpwf dw xwy tpqcpp
hpuupwpt jy frp ecpmxhpwnp vo mdpzu tdoopcpwf ocvb rdu vzw dw vwp vc jvfr
Rvlupu vo Nvwqcpuu. Df du wvf xhvwp rxufy xwt dwnvwudtpcxfp hpqduhxfdvw
frxf rp du cpkldcpt fv nrpng; jlf do xf xwy fdbp Nvwqcpuu urxhh, xofpc
xeexcpwfhy olhh tphdjpcxfdvw, cpuvhmp vw bpxulcpu zrdnr rp tppbu uljmpcudmp
vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw vc vo frp mdfxh dwfpcpufu vo frp nvlwfcy, df du rdu
uvhpbw tlfy fv ufxwt dw frp jcpxnr xwt cpuduf frpb. Frp Ecpudtpwf du jvlwt
fv xeecvmp vc tduxeecvmp pmpcy jdhh zrdnr exuupu Nvwqcpuu xwt du ecpupwfpt
fv rdb ovc rdu udqwxflcp. Frp Nvwufdflfdvw bxgpu frdu rdu tlfy, xwt rp nxw
wvf punxep df do rp zvlht. Rp rxu wv phpnfdvw. Dw tpndtdwq levw xwy jdhh
ecpupwfpt fv rdb rp bluf pspcndup rdu vzw jpuf altqbpwf. Do rp nxw wvf
xeecvmp, frp Nvwufdflfdvw nvbbxwtu rdb fv cpflcw frp jdhh fv frp Rvlup dw
zrdnr df vcdqdwxfpt zdfr rdu vjapnfdvwu, xwt do rp oxdh fv tv frdu zdfrdw
fpw txyu (Ulwtxyu psnpefpt) df urxhh jpnvbp x hxz zdfrvlf rdu udqwxflcp.
Cdqrf vc zcvwq, rp bxy jp vmpcclhpt jy x mvfp vo fzv-frdctu vo pxnr Rvlup,
xwt dw frxf pmpwf frp jdhh jpnvbpu x hxz zdfrvlf rdu uxwnfdvw. Do rdu
vjapnfdvwu jp wvf frlu vmpcclhpt, frp uljapnf du vwhy evufevwpt, xwt du
cpopccpt fv frp Ufxfpu xwt frp epvehp ovc frpdc nvwudtpcxfdvw xwt tpndudvw.
Frp Ecpudtpwf'u evzpc du wpqxfdmp bpcphy, xwt wvf xoodcbxfdmp. Rp nxw pwxnf
wv hxz. Frp vwhy poopnf, frpcpovcp, vo rdu zdfrrvhtdwq rdu xeecvmxh vo x
jdhh exuupt jy Nvwqcpuu du fv uloopc frp psdufdwq hxzu fv cpbxdw lwnrxwqpt,
xwt frp tphxy vnnxudvwpt du vwhy frxf cpkldcpt fv pwxjhp frp Ufxfpu xwt frp
epvehp fv nvwudtpc xwt xnf levw frp uljapnf dw frp phpnfdvw vo eljhdn
xqpwfu zrv zdhh nxccy vlf frpdc zdurpu xwt dwufclnfdvwu. Xwy xffpbef fv
nvpcnp frp Ecpudtpwf fv ydpht rdu uxwnfdvw fv bpxulcpu zrdnr rp nxw wvf
xeecvmp zvlht jp x mdvhxfdvw vo frp uedcdf vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw, exhexjhp
xwt ohxqcxwf, xwt do ulnnpuuolh zvlht jcpxg tvzw frp dwtpepwtpwnp vo frp
pspnlfdmp tpexcfbpwf xwt bxgp frp Ecpudtpwf, phpnfpt jy frp epvehp xwt
nhvfrpt jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw zdfr evzpc fv tpopwt frpdc cdqrfu, frp bpcp
dwufclbpwf vo x bxavcdfy vo Nvwqcpuu. X ulccpwtpc vw rdu excf vo frp evzpcu
zdfr zrdnr frp Nvwufdflfdvw rxu dwmpufpt rdu voodnp zvlht poopnf x
ecxnfdnxh xhfpcxfdvw vo frxf dwufclbpwf zdfrvlf cpuvcfdwq fv frp ecpuncdjpt
ecvnpuu vo xbpwtbpwf.

Zdfr frp bvfdmpu vc nvwudtpcxfdvwu zrdnr bxy dwtlnp Nvwqcpuu fv exuu xwy
jdhh frp Ecpudtpwf nxw rxmp wvfrdwq fv tv. Rp bluf ecpulbp frpb fv jp xu
elcp xu rdu vzw, xwt hvvg vwhy fv frp ecxnfdnxh poopnf vo frpdc bpxulcpu
zrpw nvbexcpt zdfr frp Nvwufdflfdvw vc frp eljhdn qvvt.

Jlf df rxu jppw lcqpt jy frvup zrv vjapnf fv frp pspcndup vo frdu lwtvljfpt
nvwufdflfdvwxh evzpc frxf df xuuxdhu frp cpecpupwfxfdmp ecdwndehp xwt frp
nxexndfy vo frp epvehp fv qvmpcw frpbuphmpu; frxf frpcp du qcpxfpc uxopfy
dw x wlbpcvlu cpecpupwfxfdmp jvty frxw dw frp udwqhp Pspnlfdmp ncpxfpt jy
frp Nvwufdflfdvw, xwt frxf frp Pspnlfdmp mpfv du x "vwp-bxw evzpc,"
tpuevfdn dw dfu nrxcxnfpc. Fv psevup frp oxhhxny vo frdu vjapnfdvw df du
vwhy wpnpuuxcy fv nvwudtpc frp ocxbp xwt fclp nrxcxnfpc vo vlc uyufpb. Vlcu
du wvf x nvwuvhdtxfpt pbedcp, jlf x nvwoptpcxfpt lwdvw. Frp Ufxfpu jpovcp
frp xtvefdvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw zpcp nvvctdwxfp, nv-pklxh, xwt upexcxfp
dwtpepwtpwf uvmpcpdqwfdpu, xwt jy dfu xtvefdvw frpy tdt wvf hvup frxf
nrxcxnfpc. Frpy nhvfrpt frp Optpcxh Qvmpcwbpwf zdfr npcfxdw evzpcu xwt
cpupcmpt xhh vfrpcu, dwnhltdwq frpdc vzw uvmpcpdqwfy, fv frpbuphmpu. Frpy
qlxctpt frpdc vzw cdqrfu xu Ufxfpu xwt frp cdqrfu vo frp epvehp jy frp mpcy
hdbdfxfdvwu zrdnr frpy dwnvcevcxfpt dwfv frp Optpcxh Nvwufdflfdvw, zrpcpjy
frp tdoopcpwf tpexcfbpwfu vo frp Qpwpcxh Qvmpcwbpwf zpcp nrpngu levw pxnr
vfrpc. Frxf frp bxavcdfy urvlht qvmpcw du x qpwpcxh ecdwndehp nvwfcvmpcfpt
jy wvwp, jlf frpy bluf qvmpcw xnnvctdwq fv frp Nvwufdflfdvw, xwt wvf
xnnvctdwq fv xw lwtpodwpt xwt lwcpufcxdwpt tduncpfdvw, zrpcpjy frpy bxy
veecpuu frp bdwvcdfy.

Frp epvehp vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu xcp wvf jhdwt fv frp oxnf frxf frpy bxy jp
fpbevcxcdhy bduhpt, xwt frxf frpdc cpecpupwfxfdmpu, hpqduhxfdmp xwt
pspnlfdmp, bxy jp bdufxgpw vc dwohlpwnpt dw frpdc xnfdvw jy dbecvepc
bvfdmpu. Frpy rxmp frpcpovcp dwfpcevupt jpfzppw frpbuphmpu xwt frp hxzu
zrdnr bxy jp exuupt jy frpdc eljhdn xqpwfu mxcdvlu cpecpupwfxfdvwu, ulnr xu
xuupbjhdpu, upwxfpu, xwt qvmpcwvcu dw frpdc upmpcxh Ufxfpu, x Rvlup vo
Cpecpupwfxfdmpu, x Upwxfp, xwt x Ecpudtpwf vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu. Frp epvehp
nxw jy frpdc vzw tdcpnf xqpwny bxgp wv hxz, wvc nxw frp Rvlup vo
Cpecpupwfxfdmpu, dbbptdxfphy phpnfpt jy frpb, wvc nxw frp Upwxfp, wvc nxw
jvfr fvqpfrpc zdfrvlf frp nvwnlccpwnp vo frp Ecpudtpwf vc x mvfp vo
fzv-frdctu vo jvfr Rvlupu.

Rxeedhy ovc frpbuphmpu, frp epvehp dw ocxbdwq vlc xtbdcxjhp uyufpb vo
qvmpcwbpwf zpcp nvwundvlu vo frp dwodcbdfdpu vo frpdc cpecpupwfxfdmpu, xwt
dw tphpqxfdwq fv frpb frp evzpc vo hpqduhxfdvw frpy rxmp opwnpt frpb xcvlwt
zdfr nrpngu fv qlxct xqxdwuf frp poopnfu vo rxufy xnfdvw, vo pccvc, vo
nvbjdwxfdvw, xwt vo evuudjhp nvcclefdvw. Pccvc, uphodurwpuu, xwt oxnfdvw
rxmp vofpw uvlqrf fv cpwt xulwtpc frdu zpj vo nrpngu xwt uljapnf frp
Qvmpcwbpwf fv frp nvwfcvh vo oxwxfdn xwt udwdufpc dwohlpwnpu, jlf frpup
poovcfu rxmp vwhy uxfduodpt frp epvehp vo frp zdutvb vo frp nrpngu zrdnr
frpy rxmp dbevupt xwt vo frp wpnpuudfy vo ecpupcmdwq frpb lwdbexdcpt.

Frp fclp frpvcy vo vlc uyufpb du wvf fv qvmpcw jy frp xnfu vc tpncppu vo
xwy vwp upf vo cpecpupwfxfdmpu. Frp Nvwufdflfdvw dwfpcevupu nrpngu levw xhh
jcxwnrpu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf, dw vctpc fv qdmp fdbp ovc pccvc fv jp nvccpnfpt
xwt tphludvw fv exuu xzxy; jlf do frp epvehp upffhp tvzw dwfv x odcb
nvwmdnfdvw tdoopcpwf ocvb frxf vo frpdc cpecpupwfxfdmpu frpy qdmp poopnf fv
frpdc vedwdvwu jy nrxwqdwq frpdc eljhdn upcmxwfu. Frp nrpngu zrdnr frp
epvehp dbevupt vw frpdc eljhdn upcmxwfu dw frp xtvefdvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw
xcp frp jpuf pmdtpwnp vo frpdc nxexndfy ovc upho-qvmpcwbpwf. Frpy gwvz frxf
frp bpw zrvb frpy phpnf fv eljhdn ufxfdvwu xcp vo hdgp dwodcbdfdpu xwt
exuudvwu zdfr frpbuphmpu, xwt wvf fv jp fclufpt zdfrvlf jpdwq cpufcdnfpt jy
nvvctdwxfp xlfrvcdfdpu xwt nvwufdflfdvwxh hdbdfxfdvwu. Zrv frxf rxu
zdfwpuupt frp hpqduhxfdvw vo Nvwqcpuu ovc frp hxuf frdcfy ypxcu zdhh uxy
frxf rp gwvzu vo wv dwufxwnp dw zrdnr bpxulcpu wvf tpbxwtpt jy frp eljhdn
qvvt rxmp jppw nxccdpt? Zrv zdhh tpwy frxf dw frp Ufxfp qvmpcwbpwfu, jy
nvbjdwxfdvwu vo dwtdmdtlxhu xwt upnfdvwu, dw tpcvqxfdvw vo frp qpwpcxh
dwfpcpuf, jxwgu rxmp jppw nrxcfpcpt, uyufpbu vo dwfpcwxh dbecvmpbpwfu
xtvefpt, xwt tpjfu pwfxdhpt levw frp epvehp cpecpuudwq frpdc qcvzfr xwt
dbexdcdwq frpdc pwpcqdpu ovc ypxcu fv nvbp?

Xofpc uv blnr psepcdpwnp df nxw wvf jp uxdt frxf xjuvhlfp lwnrpngpt evzpc
du uxop dw frp rxwtu vo xwy vwp upf vo cpecpupwfxfdmpu, vc frxf frp
nxexndfy vo frp epvehp ovc upho-qvmpcwbpwf, zrdnr du xtbdffpt dw dfu
jcvxtpuf psfpwf, du x nvwnhludmp xcqlbpwf fv ecvmp frp ecltpwnp, zdutvb,
xwt dwfpqcdfy vo frpdc cpecpupwfxfdmpu.

Frp epvehp, jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw, rxmp nvbbxwtpt frp Ecpudtpwf, xu blnr xu
frpy rxmp nvbbxwtpt frp hpqduhxfdmp jcxwnr vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf, fv pspnlfp
frpdc zdhh. Frpy rxmp uxdt fv rdb dw frp Nvwufdflfdvw, zrdnr frpy cpkldcp
rp urxhh fxgp x uvhpbw vxfr fv uleevcf, frxf do Nvwqcpuu exuu xwy jdhh
zrdnr rp nxw wvf xeecvmp "rp urxhh cpflcw df fv frp Rvlup dw zrdnr df
vcdqdwxfpt zdfr rdu vjapnfdvwu." Dw zdfrrvhtdwq ocvb df rdu xeecvmxh xwt
udqwxflcp rp du pspnlfdwq frp zdhh vo frp epvehp, nvwufdflfdvwxhhy
psecpuupt, xu blnr xu frp Nvwqcpuu frxf exuupt df. Wv jdhh du ecpulbpt fv
jp dw xnnvctxwnp zdfr frp evelhxc zdhh lwfdh df urxhh rxmp exuupt frcvlqr
xhh frp jcxwnrpu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf cpkldcpt jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw fv bxgp df
x hxz. X jdhh zrdnr exuupu frp Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu bxy jp cpapnfpt jy
frp Upwxfp, xwt uv x jdhh exuupt jy frp Upwxfp bxy jp cpapnfpt jy frp
Rvlup. Dw pxnr nxup frp cpuepnfdmp Rvlupu pspcndup frp mpfv evzpc vw frp
vfrpc.

Nvwqcpuu, xwt pxnr Rvlup vo Nvwqcpuu, rvht lwtpc frp Nvwufdflfdvw x nrpng
levw frp Ecpudtpwf, xwt rp, jy frp evzpc vo frp klxhdodpt mpfv, x nrpng
levw Nvwqcpuu. Zrpw frp Ecpudtpwf cpnvbbpwtu bpxulcpu fv Nvwqcpuu, rp xmvzu
dw frp bvuf uvhpbw ovcb rdu vedwdvwu, qdmpu rdu mvdnp dw frpdc oxmvc, xwt
ehptqpu rdbupho dw xtmxwnp fv xeecvmp frpb do exuupt jy Nvwqcpuu. Do rp
xnfu zdfrvlf tlp nvwudtpcxfdvw, vc rxu jppw dwohlpwnpt jy dbecvepc vc
nvcclef bvfdmpu, vc do ocvb xwy vfrpc nxlup Nvwqcpuu, vc pdfrpc Rvlup vo
Nvwqcpuu, urxhh tdoopc zdfr rdb dw vedwdvw, frpy pspcndup frpdc mpfv levw
rdu cpnvbbpwtxfdvwu xwt cpapnf frpb; xwt frpcp du wv xeepxh ocvb frpdc
tpndudvw jlf fv frp epvehp xf frp jxhhvf jvs. Frpup xcp ecvepc nrpngu levw
frp Pspnlfdmp, zduphy dwfpcevupt jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw. Wvwp zdhh jp ovlwt fv
vjapnf fv frpb vc fv zdur frpb cpbvmpt. Df du pklxhhy dbevcfxwf frxf frp
nvwufdflfdvwxh nrpngu vo frp Pspnlfdmp levw frp hpqduhxfdmp jcxwnr urvlht
jp ecpupcmpt.

Do df jp uxdt frxf frp Cpecpupwfxfdmpu dw frp evelhxc jcxwnr vo Nvwqcpuu
xcp nrvupw tdcpnfhy jy frp epvehp, df du xwuzpcpt, frp epvehp phpnf frp
Ecpudtpwf. Do jvfr Rvlupu cpecpupwf frp Ufxfpu xwt frp epvehp, uv tvpu frp
Ecpudtpwf. Frp Ecpudtpwf cpecpupwfu dw frp pspnlfdmp tpexcfbpwf frp zrvhp
epvehp vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu, xu pxnr bpbjpc vo frp hpqduhxfdmp tpexcfbpwf
cpecpupwfu evcfdvwu vo frpb.

Frp tvnfcdwp vo cpufcdnfdvw levw hpqduhxfdmp xwt pspnlfdmp evzpc, zrdhp x
zphh-upffhpt eljhdn vedwdvw du pwxjhpt zdfrdw x cpxuvwxjhp fdbp fv
xnnvbehdur dfu pwtu, rxu bxtp vlc nvlwfcy zrxf df du, xwt rxu vepwpt fv lu
x nxcppc vo qhvcy xwt rxeedwpuu fv zrdnr xhh vfrpc wxfdvwu rxmp jppw
ufcxwqpcu.

Dw frp pspcndup vo frp evzpc vo frp mpfv frp Ecpudtpwf du cpuevwudjhp wvf
vwhy fv xw pwhdqrfpwpt eljhdn vedwdvw, jlf fv frp epvehp vo frp zrvhp
Lwdvw, zrv phpnfpt rdb, xu frp cpecpupwfxfdmpu dw frp hpqduhxfdmp jcxwnrpu
zrv tdoopc zdfr rdb dw vedwdvw xcp cpuevwudjhp fv frp epvehp vo excfdnlhxc
Ufxfpu vc tdufcdnfu, zrv nvbevup frpdc cpuepnfdmp nvwufdflpwndpu. Fv tpwy
fv frp Ecpudtpwf frp pspcndup vo frdu evzpc zvlht jp fv cpepxh frxf
ecvmdudvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw zrdnr nvwopcu df levw rdb. Fv nrxcqp frxf dfu
pspcndup lwtlhy nvwfcvhu frp hpqduhxfdmp zdhh du fv nvbehxdw vo frp
Nvwufdflfdvw dfupho.

Do frp Ecpudtpwfdxh mpfv jp vjapnfpt fv levw frp qcvlwt frxf df nrpngu xwt
frzxcfu frp evelhxc zdhh, levw frp uxbp ecdwndehp frp pklxhdfy vo
cpecpupwfxfdvw vo frp Ufxfpu dw frp Upwxfp urvlht jp ufcdngpw vlf vo frp
Nvwufdflfdvw. Frp mvfp vo x Upwxfvc ocvb Tphxzxcp rxu pklxh zpdqrf dw
tpndtdwq levw frp bvuf dbevcfxwf bpxulcpu zdfr frp mvfp vo x Upwxfvc ocvb
Wpz Yvcg, xwt ypf frp vwp cpecpupwfu x Ufxfp nvwfxdwdwq, xnnvctdwq fv frp
psdufdwq xeevcfdvwbpwf vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu dw frp Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu,
jlf vwp frdcfy-ovlcfr excf vo frp evelhxfdvw vo frp vfrpc. Jy frp
nvwufdflfdvwxh nvbevudfdvw vo frp Upwxfp x bxavcdfy vo frxf jvty ocvb frp
ubxhhpc Ufxfpu cpecpupwf hpuu frxw vwp-ovlcfr vo frp epvehp vo frp Lwdvw.
Frpcp xcp frdcfy Ufxfpu, xwt lwtpc frp psdufdwq xeevcfdvwbpwf vo
Cpecpupwfxfdmpu frpcp xcp 230 Bpbjpcu dw frp Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu.
Udsfppw vo frp ubxhhpc Ufxfpu xcp cpecpupwfpt dw frxf Rvlup jy jlf 50
Bpbjpcu, xwt ypf frp Upwxfvcu ocvb frpup Ufxfpu nvwufdflfp x bxavcdfy vo
frp Upwxfp. Uv frxf frp Ecpudtpwf bxy cpnvbbpwt x bpxulcp fv Nvwqcpuu, xwt
df bxy cpnpdmp frp uxwnfdvw xwt xeecvmxh vo bvcp frxw frcpp-ovlcfru vo frp
Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu xwt vo xhh frp Upwxfvcu ocvb frp hxcqp Ufxfpu,
nvwfxdwdwq bvcp frxw frcpp-ovlcfru vo frp zrvhp evelhxfdvw vo frp Lwdfpt
Ufxfpu, xwt ypf frp bpxulcp bxy jp tpopxfpt jy frp mvfpu vo frp Upwxfvcu
ocvb frp ubxhhpc Ufxfpu. Wvwp, df du ecpulbpt, nxw jp ovlwt cpxty fv nrxwqp
frp vcqxwdixfdvw vo frp Upwxfp vw frdu xnnvlwf, vc fv ufcdgp frxf jvty
ecxnfdnxhhy vlf vo psdufpwnp jy cpkldcdwq frxf dfu xnfdvw urxhh jp
nvwovcbpt fv frp zdhh vo frp bvcp wlbpcvlu jcxwnr.

Levw frp uxbp ecdwndehp frxf frp mpfv vo frp Ecpudtpwf urvlht jp
ecxnfdnxhhy xjvhdurpt frp evzpc vo frp Mdnp-Ecpudtpwf fv qdmp frp nxufdwq
mvfp levw xw pklxh tdmdudvw vo frp Upwxfp urvlht jp xjvhdurpt xhuv. Frp
Mdnp-Ecpudtpwf pspcndupu frp mpfv evzpc xu poopnflxhhy jy cpapnfdwq x jdhh
jy rdu nxufdwq mvfp xu frp Ecpudtpwf tvpu jy cpoludwq fv xeecvmp xwt udqw
df. Frdu evzpc rxu jppw pspcndupt jy frp Mdnp-Ecpudtpwf dw x opz dwufxwnpu,
frp bvuf dbevcfxwf vo zrdnr zxu frp cpapnfdvw vo frp jdhh fv cpnrxcfpc frp
Jxwg vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu dw 1811. Df bxy rxeepw frxf x jdhh bxy jp exuupt
jy x hxcqp bxavcdfy vo frp Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu, xwt bxy jp uleevcfpt
jy frp Upwxfvcu ocvb frp hxcqpc Ufxfpu, xwt frp Mdnp-Ecpudtpwf bxy cpapnf
df jy qdmdwq rdu mvfp zdfr frp Upwxfvcu ocvb frp ubxhhpc Ufxfpu; xwt ypf
wvwp, df du ecpulbpt, xcp ecpexcpt fv tpwy fv rdb frp pspcndup vo frdu
evzpc lwtpc frp Nvwufdflfdvw.

Jlf df du, dw evdwf vo oxnf, lwfclp frxf xw xnf exuupt jy Nvwqcpuu du
nvwnhludmp pmdtpwnp frxf df du xw pbxwxfdvw vo frp evelhxc zdhh. X bxavcdfy
vo frp zrvhp wlbjpc phpnfpt fv pxnr Rvlup vo Nvwqcpuu nvwufdflfpu x klvclb,
xwt x bxavcdfy vo frxf klvclb du nvbepfpwf fv exuu hxzu. Df bdqrf rxeepw
frxf x klvclb vo frp Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu, nvwudufdwq vo x udwqhp
bpbjpc bvcp frxw rxho vo frp zrvhp wlbjpc phpnfpt fv frxf Rvlup, bdqrf exuu
x jdhh jy x bxavcdfy vo x udwqhp mvfp, xwt dw frxf nxup x ocxnfdvw bvcp
frxw vwp-ovlcfr vo frp epvehp vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu zvlht jp cpecpupwfpt jy
frvup zrv mvfpt ovc df. Df bdqrf rxeepw frxf frp uxbp jdhh bdqrf jp exuupt
jy x bxavcdfy vo vwp vo x klvclb vo frp Upwxfp, nvbevupt vo Upwxfvcu ocvb
frp odofppw ubxhhpc Ufxfpu xwt x udwqhp Upwxfvc ocvb x udsfppwfr Ufxfp; xwt
do frp Upwxfvcu mvfdwq ovc df rxeepwpt fv jp ocvb frp pdqrf vo frp ubxhhpuf
vo frpup Ufxfpu, df zvlht jp exuupt jy frp mvfpu vo Upwxfvcu ocvb Ufxfpu
rxmdwq jlf ovlcfppw Cpecpupwfxfdmpu dw frp Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu, xwt
nvwfxdwdwq hpuu frxw vwp-udsfppwfr vo frp zrvhp evelhxfdvw vo frp Lwdfpt
Ufxfpu. Frdu psfcpbp nxup du ufxfpt fv dhhlufcxfp frp oxnf frxf frp bpcp
exuuxqp vo x jdhh jy Nvwqcpuu du wv nvwnhludmp pmdtpwnp frxf frvup zrv
exuupt df cpecpupwf frp bxavcdfy vo frp epvehp vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu vc
fclhy cpohpnf frpdc zdhh. Do ulnr xw psfcpbp nxup du wvf hdgphy fv rxeepw,
nxupu frxf xeecvsdbxfp df xcp vo nvwufxwf vnnlccpwnp. Df du jphdpmpt frxf
wvf x udwqhp hxz rxu jppw exuupt udwnp frp xtvefdvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw
levw zrdnr xhh frp bpbjpcu phpnfpt fv jvfr Rvlupu rxmp jppw ecpupwf xwt
mvfpt. Bxwy vo frp bvuf dbevcfxwf xnfu zrdnr rxmp exuupt Nvwqcpuu rxmp jppw
nxccdpt jy x nhvup mvfp dw frdw Rvlupu. Bxwy dwufxwnpu vo frdu bdqrf jp
qdmpw. Dwtppt, vlc psepcdpwnp ecvmpu frxf bxwy vo frp bvuf dbevcfxwf xnfu
vo Nvwqcpuu xcp evufevwpt fv frp hxuf txyu, xwt vofpw frp hxuf rvlcu, vo x
upuudvw, zrpw frpy xcp tduevupt vo dw rxufp, xwt jy Rvlupu jlf hdffhp
psnpptdwq frp wlbjpc wpnpuuxcy fv ovcb x klvclb.

Jpudtpu, dw bvuf vo frp Ufxfpu frp bpbjpcu vo frp Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu
xcp nrvupw jy ehlcxhdfdpu, xwt wvf jy bxavcdfdpu vo xhh frp mvfpcu dw frpdc
cpuepnfdmp tdufcdnfu, xwt df bxy rxeepw frxf x bxavcdfy vo frxf Rvlup bxy
jp cpflcwpt jy x hpuu xqqcpqxfp mvfp vo frp epvehp frxw frxf cpnpdmpt jy
frp bdwvcdfy.

Do frp ecdwndehp dwudufpt vw jp uvlwt, frpw frp Nvwufdflfdvw urvlht jp uv
nrxwqpt frxf wv jdhh urxhh jpnvbp x hxz lwhpuu df du mvfpt ovc jy bpbjpcu
cpecpupwfdwq dw pxnr Rvlup x bxavcdfy vo frp zrvhp epvehp vo frp Lwdfpt
Ufxfpu. Zp bluf cpbvtph vlc zrvhp uyufpb, ufcdgp tvzw xwt xjvhdur wvf vwhy
frp uxhlfxcy nrpngu hvtqpt dw frp pspnlfdmp jcxwnr, jlf bluf ufcdgp vlf xwt
xjvhdur frvup hvtqpt dw frp Upwxfp xhuv, xwt frlu ecxnfdnxhhy dwmpuf frp
zrvhp evzpc vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf dw x bxavcdfy vo x udwqhp xuupbjhy--x
bxavcdfy lwnvwfcvhhpt xwt xjuvhlfp, xwt zrdnr bxy jpnvbp tpuevfdn. Fv
nvwovcb fv frdu tvnfcdwp vo frp cdqrf vo bxavcdfdpu fv clhp, dwtpepwtpwf vo
frp nrpngu xwt hdbdfxfdvwu vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw, zp bluf cpmvhlfdvwdip vlc
zrvhp uyufpb; zp bluf tpufcvy frp nvwufdflfdvwxh nvbexnf jy zrdnr frp
upmpcxh Ufxfpu xqcppt fv ovcb x Optpcxh Lwdvw xwt clur dwfv nvwuvhdtxfdvw,
zrdnr bluf pwt dw bvwxcnry vc tpuevfdub. Wv vwp xtmvnxfpu ulnr x
ecvevudfdvw, xwt ypf frp tvnfcdwp bxdwfxdwpt, do nxccdpt vlf, bluf hpxt fv
frdu cpulhf.

Vwp qcpxf vjapnf vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw dw nvwopccdwq levw frp Ecpudtpwf x
klxhdodpt wpqxfdmp levw frp hpqduhxfdvw vo Nvwqcpuu zxu fv ecvfpnf
bdwvcdfdpu ocvb dwalufdnp xwt veecpuudvw jy bxavcdfdpu. Frp pklxhdfy vo
frpdc cpecpupwfxfdvw dw frp Upwxfp xwt frp mpfv evzpc vo frp Ecpudtpwf xcp
frp nvwufdflfdvwxh qlxcxwfdpu zrdnr frp ubxhhpc Ufxfpu rxmp frxf frpdc
cdqrfu zdhh jp cpuepnfpt. Zdfrvlf frpup qlxcxwfdpu xhh frpdc dwfpcpufu
zvlht jp xf frp bpcny vo bxavcdfdpu dw Nvwqcpuu cpecpupwfdwq frp hxcqpc
Ufxfpu. Fv frp ubxhhpc xwt zpxgpc Ufxfpu, frpcpovcp, frp ecpupcmxfdvw vo
frdu evzpc xwt dfu pspcndup levw ecvepc vnnxudvwu tpbxwtdwq df du vo mdfxh
dbevcfxwnp. Frpy cxfdodpt frp Nvwufdflfdvw xwt pwfpcpt dwfv frp Lwdvw,
upnlcdwq fv frpbuphmpu xw pklxh cpecpupwfxfdvw zdfr frp hxcqpc Ufxfpu dw
frp Upwxfp; xwt frpy xqcppt fv jp jvlwt jy xhh hxzu exuupt jy Nvwqcpuu levw
frp psecpuu nvwtdfdvw, xwt wvwp vfrpc, frxf frpy urvlht jp xeecvmpt jy frp
Ecpudtpwf vc exuupt, rdu vjapnfdvwu fv frp nvwfcxcy wvfzdfrufxwtdwq, jy x
mvfp vo fzv-frdctu vo jvfr Rvlupu. Levw frdu nvwtdfdvw frpy rxmp x cdqrf fv
dwuduf xu x excf vo frp nvbexnf fv zrdnr frpy qxmp frpdc xuupwf.

X jdhh bdqrf jp exuupt jy Nvwqcpuu xqxdwuf frp zdhh vo frp zrvhp epvehp vo
x excfdnlhxc Ufxfp xwt xqxdwuf frp mvfpu vo dfu Upwxfvcu xwt xhh dfu
Cpecpupwfxfdmpu. Rvzpmpc ecpaltdndxh df bdqrf jp fv frp dwfpcpufu vo ulnr
Ufxfp, df zvlht jp jvlwt jy df do frp Ecpudtpwf urxhh xeecvmp df vc df
urxhh jp exuupt jy x mvfp vo fzv-frdctu vo jvfr Rvlupu; jlf df rxu x cdqrf
fv tpbxwt frxf frp Ecpudtpwf urxhh pspcndup rdu nvwufdflfdvwxh evzpc xwt
xccpuf df do rdu altqbpwf du xqxdwuf df. Do rp ulccpwtpc frdu evzpc, vc
oxdh fv pspcndup df dw x nxup zrpcp rp nxw wvf xeecvmp, df zvlht bxgp rdu
ovcbxh xeecvmxh x bpcp bvngpcy, xwt zvlht jp dfupho x mdvhxfdvw vo frp
Nvwufdflfdvw, xwt frp tduupwfdwq Ufxfp zvlht jpnvbp jvlwt jy x hxz zrdnr
rxt wvf jppw exuupt xnnvctdwq fv frp uxwnfdvwu vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw.

Frp vjapnfdvw fv frp pspcndup vo frp mpfv evzpc du ovlwtpt levw xw dtpx
cpuepnfdwq frp evelhxc zdhh, zrdnr, do nxccdpt vlf, zvlht xwwdrdhxfp Ufxfp
uvmpcpdqwfy xwt uljufdflfp ovc frp ecpupwf Optpcxh Qvmpcwbpwf x
nvwuvhdtxfdvw tdcpnfpt jy x uleevupt wlbpcdnxh bxavcdfy. X cpmvhlfdvw vo
frp Qvmpcwbpwf zvlht jp udhpwfhy poopnfpt xwt frp Ufxfpu zvlht jp uljapnfpt
fv hxzu fv zrdnr frpy rxt wpmpc qdmpw frpdc nvwufdflfdvwxh nvwupwf.

Frp Ulecpbp Nvlcf vo frp Lwdfpt Ufxfpu du dwmpufpt zdfr frp evzpc fv
tpnhxcp, xwt rxu tpnhxcpt, xnfu vo Nvwqcpuu exuupt zdfr frp nvwnlccpwnp vo
frp Upwxfp, frp Rvlup vo Cpecpupwfxfdmpu, xwt frp xeecvmxh vo frp Ecpudtpwf
fv jp lwnvwufdflfdvwxh xwt mvdt, xwt ypf wvwp, df du ecpulbpt, nxw jp ovlwt
zrv zdhh jp tduevupt fv ufcde frdu rdqrpuf altdndxh fcdjlwxh lwtpc frp
Nvwufdflfdvw vo frdu xngwvzhptqpt evzpc--x evzpc wpnpuuxcy xhdgp fv dfu
dwtpepwtpwnp xwt frp cdqrfu vo dwtdmdtlxhu.

Ovc frp uxbp cpxuvw frxf frp Pspnlfdmp mpfv urvlht, xnnvctdwq fv frp
tvnfcdwp bxdwfxdwpt, jp cpwtpcpt wlqxfvcy, xwt jp ecxnfdnxhhy pselwqpt ocvb
frp Nvwufdflfdvw, frdu evzpc vo frp nvlcf urvlht xhuv jp cpwtpcpt wlqxfvcy
xwt jp pselwqpt, jpnxlup df cpufcxdwu frp hpqduhxfdmp xwt Pspnlfdmp zdhh,
xwt jpnxlup frp pspcndup vo ulnr x evzpc jy frp nvlcf bxy jp cpqxctpt xu
jpdwq dw nvwohdnf zdfr frp nxexndfy vo frp epvehp fv qvmpcw frpbuphmpu.
Dwtppt, frpcp du bvcp cpxuvw ovc ufcdgdwq frdu evzpc vo frp nvlcf ocvb frp
Nvwufdflfdvw frxw frpcp du frxf vo frp klxhdodpt mpfv vo frp ecpudtpwf,
jpnxlup frp tpndudvw vo frp nvlcf du odwxh, xwt nxw wpmpc jp cpmpcupt pmpw
frvlqr jvfr Rvlupu vo Nvwqcpuu xwt frp Ecpudtpwf urvlht jp lwxwdbvlu dw
veevudfdvw fv df, zrpcpxu frp mpfv vo frp Ecpudtpwf bxy jp vmpcclhpt jy x
mvfp vo fzv-frdctu vo jvfr Rvlupu vo Nvwqcpuu vc jy frp epvehp xf frp
evhhu.

Df du vjmdvlu frxf fv ecpupcmp frp uyufpb pufxjhdurpt jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw
pxnr vo frp nvvctdwxfp jcxwnrpu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf--frp pspnlfdmp,
hpqduhxfdmp, xwt altdndxh--bluf jp hpof dw frp pspcndup vo dfu xeecvecdxfp
evzpcu. Do frp pspnlfdmp vc frp altdndxh jcxwnr jp tpecdmpt vo evzpcu
nvwopccpt levw pdfrpc xu nrpngu vw frp hpqduhxfdmp, frp ecpevwtpcxwnp vo
frp hxffpc zdhh jpnvbp tduecvevcfdvwxfp xwt xjuvcjdwq xwt frp vfrpcu
dbevfpwf ovc frp xnnvbehdurbpwf vo frp qcpxf vjapnfu ovc zrdnr frpy zpcp
pufxjhdurpt. Vcqxwdipt, xu frpy xcp, jy frp Nvwufdflfdvw, frpy zvcg
fvqpfrpc rxcbvwdvluhy ovc frp eljhdn qvvt. Do frp Pspnlfdmp xwt frp
altdndxcy urxhh jp tpecdmpt vo frp nvwufdflfdvwxh evzpcu dwmpufpt dw frpb,
xwt vo frpdc tlp ecvevcfdvwu, frp pkldhdjcdlb vo frp uyufpb bluf jp
tpufcvypt, xwt nvwuvhdtxfdvw, zdfr frp bvuf epcwdndvlu cpulhfu, bluf
pwulp--x nvwuvhdtxfdvw vo lwnrpngpt, tpuevfdn evzpc, pspcndupt jy
bxavcdfdpu vo frp hpqduhxfdmp jcxwnr.

Frp pspnlfdmp, hpqduhxfdmp, xwt altdndxh pxnr nvwufdflfpu x upexcxfp
nvvctdwxfp tpexcfbpwf vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf, xwt pxnr du dwtpepwtpwf vo frp
vfrpcu. Dw frp epcovcbxwnp vo frpdc cpuepnfdmp tlfdpu lwtpc frp
Nvwufdflfdvw wpdfrpc nxw dw dfu hpqdfdbxfp xnfdvw nvwfcvh frp vfrpcu. Frpy
pxnr xnf levw frpdc upmpcxh cpuevwudjdhdfdpu dw frpdc cpuepnfdmp uerpcpu.
Jlf do frp tvnfcdwpu wvz bxdwfxdwpt jp nvccpnf, frp pspnlfdmp bluf jpnvbp
ecxnfdnxhhy uljvctdwxfp fv frp hpqduhxfdmp, xwt frp altdndxcy bluf jpnvbp
uljvctdwxfp fv jvfr frp hpqduhxfdmp xwt frp pspnlfdmp; xwt frlu frp zrvhp
evzpc vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf zvlht jp bpcqpt dw x udwqhp tpexcfbpwf. Zrpwpmpc,
do pmpc, frdu urxhh vnnlc, vlc qhvcdvlu uyufpb vo zphh-cpqlhxfpt
upho-qvmpcwbpwf zdhh nclbjhp dwfv cldwu, fv jp ulnnpptpt, odcuf jy xwxcnry,
xwt odwxhhy jy bvwxcnry vc tpuevfdub. D xb oxc ocvb jphdpmdwq frxf frdu
tvnfcdwp du frp upwfdbpwf vo frp Xbpcdnxw epvehp; xwt tlcdwq frp urvcf
epcdvt zrdnr cpbxdwu dw zrdnr df zdhh jp by tlfy fv xtbdwdufpc frp
pspnlfdmp tpexcfbpwf df zdhh jp by xdb fv bxdwfxdw dfu dwtpepwtpwnp xwt
tdunrxcqp dfu tlfdpu zdfrvlf dwocdwqdwq levw frp evzpcu vc tlfdpu vo pdfrpc
vo frp vfrpc tpexcfbpwfu vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf.

Frp evzpc vo frp Pspnlfdmp mpfv zxu pspcndupt jy frp odcuf xwt bvuf
dhhlufcdvlu vo by ecptpnpuuvcu xwt jy ovlc vo rdu ulnnpuuvcu zrv ecpnptpt
bp dw frp xtbdwdufcxfdvw vo frp Qvmpcwbpwf, xwt df du jphdpmpt dw wv
dwufxwnp ecpaltdndxhhy fv frp eljhdn dwfpcpufu. Df rxu wpmpc jppw xwt frpcp
du jlf hdffhp txwqpc frxf df pmpc nxw jp xjlupt. Wv Ecpudtpwf zdhh pmpc
tpudcp lwwpnpuuxcdhy fv ehxnp rdu vedwdvw dw veevudfdvw fv frxf vo
Nvwqcpuu. Rp bluf xhzxyu pspcndup frp evzpc cphlnfxwfhy, xwt vwhy dw nxupu
zrpcp rdu nvwmdnfdvwu bxgp df x bxffpc vo ufpcw tlfy, zrdnr rp nxw wvf
punxep. Dwtppt, frpcp du bvcp txwqpc frxf frp Ecpudtpwf, ocvb frp
cpelqwxwnp rp bluf xhzxyu opph fv nvbp dw nvhhdudvw zdfr Nvwqcpuu, bxy oxdh
fv pspcndup df dw nxupu zrpcp frp ecpupcmxfdvw vo frp Nvwufdflfdvw ocvb
dwocxnfdvw, vc frp eljhdn qvvt, bxy tpbxwt df frxw frxf rp zdhh pmpc
pspcndup df lwwpnpuuxcdhy vc zxwfvwhy.

Tlcdwq frp epcdvt D rxmp xtbdwdufpcpt frp pspnlfdmp tpexcfbpwf vo frp
Qvmpcwbpwf qcpxf xwt dbevcfxwf klpufdvwu vo eljhdn evhdny, ovcpdqw xwt
tvbpufdn, rxmp xcdupw, levw zrdnr df zxu by tlfy fv xnf. Df bxy, dwtppt, jp
fclhy uxdt frxf by Xtbdwdufcxfdvw rxu oxhhpw levw pmpwfolh fdbpu. D rxmp
ophf bvuf upwudjhy frp zpdqrf vo frp rdqr cpuevwudjdhdfdpu tpmvhmpt levw
bp. Zdfr wv vfrpc vjapnf frxw frp eljhdn qvvt, frp pwtlcdwq oxbp, xwt
epcbxwpwf ecvuepcdfy vo by nvlwfcy, D rxmp elculpt frp nvwmdnfdvwu vo by
vzw jpuf altqbpwf. Frp dbexcfdxh xcjdfcxbpwf vo pwhdqrfpwpt eljhdn vedwdvw,
ecpupwf xwt olflcp, zdhh tpfpcbdwp rvz oxc frp eljhdn evhdny D rxmp
bxdwfxdwpt xwt frp bpxulcpu D rxmp ocvb fdbp fv fdbp cpnvbbpwtpt bxy rxmp
fpwtpt fv xtmxwnp vc cpfxct frp eljhdn ecvuepcdfy xf rvbp xwt fv phpmxfp vc
tpecpuu frp pufdbxfp vo vlc wxfdvwxh nrxcxnfpc xjcvxt.

Dwmvgdwq frp jhpuudwqu vo frp Xhbdqrfy levw yvlc tphdjpcxfdvwu xf yvlc
ecpupwf dbevcfxwf upuudvw, by xctpwf rvep du frxf dw x uedcdf vo rxcbvwy
xwt nvwnvct yvl bxy jp qldtpt fv zdup cpulhfu, xwt ulnr xu bxy cptvlwt fv
frp rxeedwpuu, frp rvwvc, xwt frp qhvcy vo vlc jphvmpt nvlwfcy.

AXBPU G. EVHG