Fyvvst-Jinihyzb sf nmy Byzxny xzp sf nmy Mslby sf Eydeybyznxnigyb:

In ib ns uy x bslejy sf lzxffyjnyp bxnibfxjnisz ns uyyn nmy eydeybyznxnigyb
sf nmy Bnxnyb xzp nmy dysdvy iz Jszoeybb xbbyuavyp, xb in tivv ay ns
eyjyigy nmy xip sf nmyie jsuaizyp tibpsu iz nmy xpuizibnexnisz sf dlavij
xffxieb. Iz dyefseuizo fse nmy fiebn niuy nmy plnc iudsbyp sz uy ac nmy
Jszbninlnisz sf oigizo ns csl izfseuxnisz sf nmy bnxny sf nmy Lzisz xzp
eyjsuuyzpizo ns csle jszbipyexnisz bljm uyxbleyb xb iz uc wlpouyzn xey
zyjybbxec xzp ykdypiyzn, I xu mxddc nmxn I jxz jszoexnlvxny csl sz nmy
jsznizlyp desbdyeinc sf sle jslznec. Lzpye nmy avybbizob sf Pigizy
Desgipyzjy xzp nmy ayzioz izfvlyzjy sf sle feyy izbninlniszb, in bnxzpb
ayfsey nmy tsevp x bdyjnxjvy sf zxniszxv mxddizybb.

Tinm sle lzykxudvyp xpgxzjyuyzn iz xvv nmy yvyuyznb sf zxniszxv oeyxnzybb,
nmy xffyjnisz sf nmy dysdvy ib jszfieuyp fse nmy Lzisz sf nmy Bnxnyb xzp
fse nmy psjneizyb sf dsdlvxe viayenc tmijm viy xn nmy fslzpxnisz sf sle
Osgyezuyzn.

In ayjsuyb lb iz mluivinc ns uxqy sle pygsln xjqzstvypouyznb ns nmy Bldeyuy
Elvye sf nmy Lzigyeby fse nmy izybniuxavy jigiv xzp eyvioislb avybbizob
tinm tmijm ty xey fxgseyp.

Iz jxvvizo nmy xnnyznisz sf Jszoeybb ns sle eyvxniszb tinm fseyioz dstyeb,
I xu oexnifiyp ns ay xavy ns bnxny nmxn nmslom tinm bsuy sf nmyu nmyey mxgy
ykibnyp bizjy csle vxbn bybbisz byeislb jxlbyb sf ieeinxnisz xzp
uiblzpyebnxzpizo, cyn zs xjnlxv msbniviniyb mxgy nxqyz dvxjy. Xpsdnizo nmy
uxkiu iz nmy jszpljn sf sle fseyioz xffxieb "ns xbq zsnmizo nmxn ib zsn
eiomn xzp blauin ns zsnmizo nmxn ib teszo," in mxb ayyz uc xzkislb pybiey
ns deybyegy dyxjy tinm xvv zxniszb, aln xn nmy bxuy niuy ns ay deydxeyp ns
eybibn xooeybbisz xzp uxiznxiz xvv sle wlbn eiomnb.

Iz dleblxzjy sf nmy wsizn eybsvlnisz sf Jszoeybb "fse xzzykizo Nykxb ns nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb," uc deypyjybbse, sz nmy 3p pxc sf Uxejm, 1845, yvyjnyp ns
blauin nmy fiebn xzp byjszp byjniszb sf nmxn eybsvlnisz ns nmy Eydlavij sf
Nykxb xb xz sgyenley sz nmy dxen sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb fse mye xpuibbisz xb
x Bnxny izns sle Lzisz. Nmib yvyjnisz I xddesgyp, xzp xjjsepizovc nmy
jmxeoy p'xffxieyb sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb iz Nykxb, lzpye izbneljniszb sf nmy
10nm sf Uxejm, 1845, deybyznyp nmyby byjniszb sf nmy eybsvlnisz fse nmy
xjjydnxzjy sf nmxn Eydlavij. Nmy ykyjlnigy osgyezuyzn, nmy Jszoeybb, xzp
nmy dysdvy sf Nykxb iz jszgyznisz mxgy bljjybbigyvc jsudviyp tinm xvv nmy
nyeub xzp jszpiniszb sf nmy wsizn eybsvlnisz. X jszbninlnisz fse nmy
osgyezuyzn sf nmy Bnxny sf Nykxb, fseuyp ac x jszgyznisz sf pydlniyb, ib
myeytinm vxip ayfsey Jszoeybb. In ib tyvv qzstz, xvbs, nmxn nmy dysdvy sf
Nykxb xn nmy dsvvb mxgy xjjydnyp nmy nyeub sf xzzykxnisz xzp exnifiyp nmy
jszbninlnisz. I jsuulzijxny ns Jszoeybb nmy jseeybdszpyzjy ayntyyz nmy
Byjeynxec sf Bnxny xzp sle jmxeoy p'xffxieyb iz Nykxb, xzp xvbs nmy
jseeybdszpyzjy sf nmy vxnnye tinm nmy xlnmseiniyb sf Nykxb, nsoynmye tinm
nmy sffijixv psjluyznb nexzbuinnyp ac miu ns mib stz Osgyezuyzn. Nmy nyeub
sf xzzykxnisz tmijm tyey sffyeyp ac nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb mxgizo ayyz xjjydnyp
ac Nykxb, nmy dlavij fxinm sf asnm dxeniyb ib bsvyuzvc dvypoyp ns nmy
jsudxjn sf nmyie lzisz. Zsnmizo eyuxizb ns jszbluuxny nmy ygyzn aln nmy
dxbbxoy sf xz xjn ac Jszoeybb ns xpuin nmy Bnxny sf Nykxb izns nmy Lzisz
ldsz xz yrlxv fssnizo tinm nmy seioizxv Bnxnyb. Bneszo eyxbszb ykibn tmc
nmib bmslvp ay pszy xn xz yxevc dyeisp sf nmy bybbisz. In tivv ay sabyegyp
nmxn ac nmy jszbninlnisz sf Nykxb nmy ykibnizo osgyezuyzn ib szvc jsznizlyp
nyudsexeivc nivv Jszoeybb jxz xjn, xzp nmxn nmy nmiep Uszpxc sf nmy deybyzn
usznm ib nmy pxc xddsiznyp fse msvpizo nmy fiebn oyzyexv yvyjnisz. Sz nmxn
pxc x osgyezse, x viylnyzxzn-osgyezse, xzp asnm aexzjmyb sf nmy vyoibvxnley
tivv ay jmsbyz ac nmy dysdvy. Nmy Deybipyzn sf Nykxb ib eyrlieyp,
iuuypixnyvc xfnye nmy eyjyidn sf sffijixv izfseuxnisz nmxn nmy zyt Bnxny
mxb ayyz xpuinnyp izns sle Lzisz ac Jszoeybb, ns jszgyzy nmy vyoibvxnley,
xzp ldsz inb uyynizo nmy ykibnizo osgyezuyzn tivv ay bldyebypyp xzp nmy
Bnxny osgyezuyzn seoxzihyp. Rlybniszb pyydvc iznyeybnizo ns Nykxb, iz
jsuusz tinm nmy snmye Bnxnyb, nmy yknyzbisz sf sle eygyzly vxtb xzp
wlpijixv bcbnyu sgye mye dysdvy xzp nyeeinsec, xb tyvv xb uyxbleyb sf x
vsjxv jmxexjnye, tivv jvxiu nmy yxevc xnnyznisz sf Jszoeybb, xzp nmyeyfsey
ldsz ygyec deizjidvy sf eydlavijxz osgyezuyzn bmy slomn ns ay eydeybyznyp
iz nmxn aspc tinmsln lzzyjybbxec pyvxc. I jxz zsn nss yxezybnvc eyjsuuyzp
desudn xjnisz sz nmib iudsenxzn blawyjn. Xb bssz xb nmy xjn ns xpuin Nykxb
xb x Bnxny bmxvv ay dxbbyp nmy lzisz sf nmy nts Eydlavijb tivv ay
jszbluuxnyp ac nmyie stz gsvlznxec jszbyzn.

Nmib xjjybbisz ns sle nyeeinsec mxb ayyz x avsspvybb xjmiygyuyzn. Zs xeu sf
fsejy mxb ayyz exibyp ns despljy nmy eyblvn. Nmy btsep mxb mxp zs dxen iz
nmy gijnsec. Ty mxgy zsn bslomn ns yknyzp sle nyeeinseixv dsbbybbiszb ac
jszrlybn, se sle eydlavijxz izbninlniszb sgye x eyvljnxzn dysdvy. In txb
nmy pyviayexny msuxoy sf yxjm dysdvy ns nmy oeyxn deizjidvy sf sle
fypyexnigy lzisz. If ty jszbipye nmy yknyzn sf nyeeinsec izgsvgyp iz nmy
xzzykxnisz, inb desbdyjnigy izfvlyzjy sz Xuyeijx, nmy uyxzb ac tmijm in mxb
ayyz xjjsudvibmyp, bdeizoizo dleyvc fesu nmy jmsijy sf nmy dysdvy
nmyubyvgyb ns bmxey nmy avybbizob sf sle lzisz, nmy mibnsec sf nmy tsevp
uxc ay jmxvvyzoyp ns flezibm x dxexvvyv. Nmy wleibpijnisz sf nmy Lzinyp
Bnxnyb, tmijm xn nmy fseuxnisz sf nmy Fypyexv Jszbninlnisz txb aslzpyp ac
nmy Bn. Uxecb sz nmy Xnvxznij, mxb dxbbyp nmy jxdyb sf Fvseipx xzp ayyz
dyxjyflvvc yknyzpyp ns nmy Pyv Zseny. Iz jsznyudvxnizo nmy oexzpyle sf nmib
ygyzn in ib zsn ns ay fseosnnyz nmxn nmy eyblvn txb xjmiygyp iz pybdiny sf
nmy pidvsuxnij iznyefyeyzjy sf Ylesdyxz uszxejmiyb. Ygyz Fexzjy, nmy
jslznec tmijm mxp ayyz sle xzjiyzn xvvc, nmy jslznec tmijm mxb x jsuusz
iznyeybn tinm lb iz uxiznxizizo nmy feyypsu sf nmy byxb, nmy jslznec tmijm,
ac nmy jybbisz sf Vslibixzx, fiebn sdyzyp ns lb xjjybb ns nmy Olvf sf
Uykijs, nmy jslznec tinm tmijm ty mxgy ayyz ygyec cyxe pextizo usey xzp
usey jvsbyvc nmy aszpb sf bljjybbflv jsuuyejy, usbn lzykdyjnypvc, xzp ns
sle lzfyiozyp eyoeyn, nssq dxen iz xz yffsen ns deygyzn xzzykxnisz xzp ns
iudsby sz Nykxb, xb x jszpinisz sf nmy eyjsozinisz sf mye izpydyzpyzjy ac
Uykijs, nmxn bmy tslvp zygye wsiz myebyvf ns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb. Ty uxc
eywsijy nmxn nmy nexzrliv xzp dyegxpizo izfvlyzjy sf nmy Xuyeijxz deizjidvy
sf byvf-osgyezuyzn txb blffijiyzn ns pyfyxn nmy dledsbyb sf Aeinibm xzp
Feyzjm iznyefyeyzjy, xzp nmxn nmy xvusbn lzxziuslb gsijy sf nmy dysdvy sf
Nykxb mxb oigyz ns nmxn iznyefyeyzjy x dyxjyflv xzp yffyjnigy eyalqy. Fesu
nmib ykxudvy Ylesdyxz Osgyezuyznb uxc vyxez mst gxiz pidvsuxnij xenb xzp
izneiolyb ulbn ygye desgy ldsz nmib jsznizyzn xoxizbn nmxn bcbnyu sf
byvf-osgyezuyzn tmijm byyub zxnlexv ns sle bsiv, xzp tmijm tivv ygye eybibn
fseyioz iznyefyeyzjy.

Nstxep Nykxb I ps zsn pslan nmxn x viayexv xzp oyzyeslb bdiein tivv xjnlxny
Jszoeybb iz xvv nmxn jszjyezb mye iznyeybnb xzp desbdyeinc, xzp nmxn bmy
tivv zygye mxgy jxlby ns eyoeyn nmxn bmy mxb lzinyp mye "vszy bnxe" ns sle
ovseislb jszbnyvvxnisz.

I eyoeyn ns izfseu csl nmxn sle eyvxniszb tinm Uykijs bizjy csle vxbn
bybbisz mxgy zsn ayyz sf nmy xuijxavy jmxexjnye tmijm in ib sle pybiey ns
jlvnigxny tinm xvv fseyioz zxniszb. Sz nmy 6nm pxc sf Uxejm vxbn nmy
Uykijxz yzgsc yknexsepizxec xzp uizibnye dvyzidsnyznixec ns nmy Lzinyp
Bnxnyb uxpy x fseuxv desnybn iz nmy zxuy sf mib Osgyezuyzn xoxizbn nmy
wsizn eybsvlnisz dxbbyp ac Jszoeybb "fse nmy xzzykxnisz sf Nykxb ns nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb," tmijm my jmsby ns eyoxep xb x gisvxnisz sf nmy eiomnb sf
Uykijs, xzp iz jszbyrlyzjy sf in my pyuxzpyp mib dxbbdsenb. My txb izfseuyp
nmxn nmy Osgyezuyzn sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb pip zsn jszbipye nmib wsizn
eybsvlnisz xb x gisvxnisz sf xzc sf nmy eiomnb sf Uykijs, se nmxn in
xffsepyp xzc wlbn jxlby sf sffyzby ns mib Osgyezuyzn; nmxn nmy Eydlavij sf
Nykxb txb xz izpydyzpyzn dstye, stizo zs xvvyoixzjy ns Uykijs xzp
jszbninlnizo zs dxen sf mye nyeeinsec se eiomnflv bsgyeyioznc xzp
wleibpijnisz. My txb xvbs xbbleyp nmxn in txb nmy bizjyey pybiey sf nmib
Osgyezuyzn ns uxiznxiz tinm nmxn sf Uykijs eyvxniszb sf dyxjy xzp ossp
lzpyebnxzpizo. Nmxn flzjniszxec, mstygye, zsntinmbnxzpizo nmyby
eydeybyznxniszb xzp xbblexzjyb, xaeldnvc nyeuizxnyp mib uibbisz xzp bmsenvc
xfnyetxepb vyfn nmy jslznec. Sle yzgsc yknexsepizxec xzp uizibnye
dvyzidsnyznixec ns Uykijs txb eyflbyp xvv sffijixv iznyejsleby tinm nmxn
Osgyezuyzn, xzp, xfnye eyuxizizo bygyexv usznmb, ac nmy dyeuibbisz sf mib
stz Osgyezuyzn my eynlezyp ns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb. Nmlb, ac nmy xjnb sf
Uykijs, xvv pidvsuxnij iznyejsleby ayntyyz nmy nts jslzneiyb txb
blbdyzpyp.

Bizjy nmxn niuy Uykijs mxb lzniv eyjyznvc sjjldiyp xz xnninlpy sf msbnivinc
nstxep nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb--mxb ayyz uxebmxvizo xzp seoxzihizo xeuiyb,
ibblizo desjvxuxniszb, xzp xgstizo nmy iznyznisz ns uxqy txe sz nmy Lzinyp
Bnxnyb, yinmye ac xz sdyz pyjvxexnisz se ac izgxpizo Nykxb. Asnm nmy
Jszoeybb xzp jszgyznisz sf nmy dysdvy sf Nykxb izginyp nmib Osgyezuyzn ns
byzp xz xeuc izns nmxn nyeeinsec ns desnyjn xzp pyfyzp nmyu xoxizbn nmy
uyzxjyp xnnxjq. Nmy usuyzn nmy nyeub sf xzzykxnisz sffyeyp ac nmy Lzinyp
Bnxnyb tyey xjjydnyp ac Nykxb nmy vxnnye ayjxuy bs fxe x dxen sf sle stz
jslznec xb ns uxqy in sle plnc ns xffsep bljm desnyjnisz xzp pyfyzby. I
nmyeyfsey pyyuyp in desdye, xb x deyjxlniszxec uyxbley, ns sepye x bneszo
brlxpesz ns nmy jsxbnb sf Uykijs xzp ns jszjyznexny xz yffijiyzn uivinxec
fsejy sz nmy tybnyez feszniye sf Nykxb. Sle Xeuc txb sepyeyp ns nxqy
dsbinisz iz nmy jslznec ayntyyz nmy Zlyjyb xzp nmy Pyv Zseny, xzp ns eydyv
xzc izgxbisz sf nmy Nykxz nyeeinsec tmijm uiomn ay xnnyudnyp ac nmy Uykijxz
fsejyb. Sle brlxpesz iz nmy Olvf txb sepyeyp ns jssdyexny tinm nmy Xeuc.
Aln nmslom sle Xeuc xzp Zxgc tyey dvxjyp iz x dsbinisz ns pyfyzp sle stz
xzp nmy eiomnb sf Nykxb, nmyc tyey sepyeyp ns jsuuin zs xjn sf msbnivinc
xoxizbn Uykijs lzvybb bmy pyjvxeyp txe se txb myebyvf nmy xooeybbse ac
bneiqizo nmy fiebn avst. Nmy eyblvn mxb ayyz nmxn Uykijs mxb uxpy zs
xooeybbigy usgyuyzn, xzp sle uivinxec xzp zxgxv jsuuxzpyeb mxgy ykyjlnyp
nmyie sepyeb tinm bljm pibjeynisz nmxn nmy dyxjy sf nmy nts Eydlavijb mxb
zsn ayyz pibnleayp. Nykxb mxp pyjvxeyp mye izpydyzpyzjy xzp uxiznxizyp in
ac mye xeub fse usey nmxz zizy cyxeb. Bmy mxb mxp xz seoxzihyp osgyezuyzn
iz bljjybbflv sdyexnisz pleizo nmxn dyeisp. Mye bydxexny ykibnyzjy xb xz
izpydyzpyzn bnxny mxp ayyz eyjsozihyp ac nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb xzp nmy
deizjidxv dstyeb sf Ylesdy. Neyxniyb sf jsuuyejy xzp zxgioxnisz mxp ayyz
jszjvlpyp tinm mye ac piffyeyzn zxniszb, xzp in mxp ayjsuy uxzifybn ns nmy
tmsvy tsevp nmxn xzc flenmye xnnyudn sz nmy dxen sf Uykijs ns jszrlye mye
se sgyenmest mye Osgyezuyzn tslvp ay gxiz. Ygyz Uykijs myebyvf mxp ayjsuy
bxnibfiyp sf nmib fxjn, xzp tmivbn nmy rlybnisz sf xzzykxnisz txb dyzpizo
ayfsey nmy dysdvy sf Nykxb pleizo nmy dxbn bluuye nmy Osgyezuyzn sf Uykijs,
ac x fseuxv xjn, xoeyyp ns eyjsozihy nmy izpydyzpyzjy sf Nykxb sz jszpinisz
nmxn bmy tslvp zsn xzzyk myebyvf ns xzc snmye dstye. Nmy xoeyyuyzn ns
xjqzstvypoy nmy izpydyzpyzjy sf Nykxb, tmynmye tinm se tinmsln nmib
jszpinisz, ib jszjvlbigy xoxizbn Uykijs. Nmy izpydyzpyzjy sf Nykxb ib x
fxjn jszjypyp ac Uykijs myebyvf, xzp bmy mxp zs eiomn se xlnmseinc ns
deybjeiay eybneijniszb xb ns nmy fseu sf osgyezuyzn tmijm Nykxb uiomn
xfnyetxepb jmssby ns xbbluy. Aln nmslom Uykijs jxz zsn jsudvxiz sf nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb sz xjjslzn sf nmy xzzykxnisz sf Nykxb, in ib ns ay eyoeynnyp
nmxn byeislb jxlbyb sf uiblzpyebnxzpizo ayntyyz nmy nts jslzneiyb jsznizly
ns ykibn, oestizo sln sf lzeypeybbyp izwleiyb izfvijnyp ac nmy Uykijxz
xlnmseiniyb xzp dysdvy sz nmy dyebszb xzp desdyenc sf jinihyzb sf nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb nmeslom x vszo byeiyb sf cyxeb. Uykijs mxb xpuinnyp nmyby
izwleiyb, aln mxb zyovyjnyp xzp eyflbyp ns eydxie nmyu. Bljm txb nmy
jmxexjnye sf nmy teszob xzp bljm nmy izblvnb eydyxnypvc sffyeyp ns Xuyeijxz
jinihyzb xzp nmy Xuyeijxz fvxo ac Uykijs, iz dxvdxavy gisvxnisz sf nmy vxtb
sf zxniszb xzp nmy neyxnc ayntyyz nmy nts jslzneiyb sf nmy 5nm sf Xdeiv,
1831, nmxn nmyc mxgy ayyz eydyxnypvc aeslomn ns nmy zsnijy sf Jszoeybb ac
uc deypyjybbseb. Xb yxevc xb nmy 6nm sf Fyaelxec, 1837, nmy Deybipyzn sf
nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb pyjvxeyp iz x uybbxoy ns Jszoeybb nmxn--

Nmy vyzonm sf niuy bizjy bsuy sf nmy izwleiyb mxgy ayyz jsuuinnyp, nmy
eydyxnyp xzp lzxgxivizo xddvijxniszb fse eypeybb, nmy txznsz jmxexjnye sf
bsuy sf nmy slnexoyb ldsz nmy desdyenc xzp dyebszb sf sle jinihyzb, ldsz
nmy sffijyeb xzp fvxo sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb, izpydyzpyzn sf eyjyzn izblvnb
ns nmib Osgyezuyzn xzp dysdvy ac nmy vxny yknexsepizxec Uykijxz uizibnye,
tslvp wlbnifc iz nmy ycyb sf xvv zxniszb iuuypixny txe.

My pip zsn, mstygye, eyjsuuyzp xz iuuypixny eybsen ns nmib ykneyuy uyxbley,
tmijm, my pyjvxeyp, "bmslvp zsn ay lbyp ac wlbn xzp oyzyeslb zxniszb,
jszfipizo iz nmyie bneyzonm fse izwleiyb jsuuinnyp, if in jxz ay mszsexavc
xgsipyp," aln, iz x bdiein sf fseayxexzjy, desdsbyp nmxn xzsnmye pyuxzp ay
uxpy sz Uykijs fse nmxn eypeybb tmijm mxp ayyz bs vszo xzp lzwlbnvc
tinmmyvp. Iz nmyby giytb jsuuinnyyb sf nmy nts Mslbyb sf Jszoeybb, iz
eydsenb uxpy ns nmyie eybdyjnigy aspiyb, jszjleeyp. Bizjy nmyby desjyypizob
usey nmxz yiomn cyxeb mxgy yvxdbyp, pleizo tmijm, iz xppinisz ns nmy teszob
nmyz jsudvxizyp sf, snmyeb sf xz xooexgxnyp jmxexjnye mxgy ayyz jsuuinnyp
sz nmy dyebszb xzp desdyenc sf sle jinihyzb. X bdyjixv xoyzn txb byzn ns
Uykijs iz nmy bluuye sf 1838 tinm flvv xlnmseinc ns uxqy xzsnmye xzp fizxv
pyuxzp fse eypeybb. Nmy pyuxzp txb uxpy; nmy Uykijxz Osgyezuyzn desuibyp ns
eydxie nmy teszob sf tmijm ty jsudvxizyp, xzp xfnye uljm pyvxc x neyxnc sf
izpyuzinc tinm nmxn giyt txb jszjvlpyp ayntyyz nmy nts dstyeb sz nmy 11nm
sf Xdeiv, 1839, xzp txb plvc exnifiyp ac asnm Osgyezuyznb. Ac nmib neyxnc x
wsizn jsuuibbisz txb jeyxnyp ns xpwlpijxny xzp pyjipy sz nmy jvxiub sf
Xuyeijxz jinihyzb sz nmy Osgyezuyzn sf Uykijs. Nmy jsuuibbisz txb seoxzihyp
xn Txbmizonsz sz nmy 25nm pxc sf Xlolbn, 1840. Nmyie niuy txb viuinyp ns
yiomnyyz usznmb, xn nmy ykdiexnisz sf tmijm nmyc mxp xpwlpijxnyp xzp
pyjipyp jvxiub xuslznizo ns $2,026,139.68 iz fxgse sf jinihyzb sf nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb xoxizbn nmy Uykijxz Osgyezuyzn, vyxgizo x vxeoy xuslzn sf
jvxiub lzpyjipyp. Sf nmy vxnnye nmy Xuyeijxz jsuuibbiszyeb mxp pyjipyp iz
fxgse sf sle jinihyzb jvxiub xuslznizo ns $928,627.88, tmijm tyey vyfn
lzxjnyp sz ac nmy ludiey xlnmseihyp ac nmy neyxnc. Bnivv flenmye jvxiub,
xuslznizo ns ayntyyz nmeyy xzp fsle uivviszb sf psvvxeb, tyey blauinnyp ns
nmy asxep nss vxny ns ay jszbipyeyp, xzp tyey vyfn lzpibdsbyp sf. Nmy blu
sf $2,026,139.68, pyjipyp ac nmy asxep, txb x virlipxnyp xzp xbjyenxizyp
pyan ply ac Uykijs ns nmy jvxiuxznb, xzp nmyey txb zs wlbnifixavy eyxbsz
fse pyvxcizo inb dxcuyzn xjjsepizo ns nmy nyeub sf nmy neyxnc. In txb zsn,
mstygye, dxip. Uykijs xddviyp fse flenmye izplvoyzjy, xzp, iz nmxn bdiein
sf viayexvinc xzp fseayxexzjy tmijm mxb ygye uxeqyp nmy dsvijc sf nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb nstxep nmxn Eydlavij, nmy eyrlybn txb oexznyp, xzp sz nmy
30nm sf Wxzlxec, 1843, x zyt neyxnc txb jszjvlpyp. Ac nmib neyxnc in txb
desgipyp nmxn nmy iznyeybn ply sz nmy xtxepb iz fxgse sf jvxiuxznb lzpye
nmy jszgyznisz sf nmy 11nm sf Xdeiv, 1839, bmslvp ay dxip sln nmy 30nm sf
Xdeiv, 1843, xzp nmxn--

Nmy deizjidxv sf nmy bxip xtxepb xzp nmy iznyeybn xjjelizo nmyeysz bmxvv ay
dxip iz figy cyxeb, iz yrlxv izbnxvvuyznb ygyec nmeyy usznmb, nmy bxip nyeu
sf figy cyxeb ns jsuuyzjy sz nmy 30nm pxc sf Xdeiv, 1843, xfseybxip.

Nmy iznyeybn ply sz nmy 30nm pxc sf Xdeiv, 1843, xzp nmy nmeyy fiebn sf nmy
ntyznc izbnxvvuyznb mxgy ayyz dxip. Bygyznyyz sf nmyby izbnxvvuyznb, eyuxiz
lzdxip, bygyz sf tmijm xey zst ply.

Nmy jvxiub tmijm tyey vyfn lzpyjipyp ac nmy wsizn jsuuibbisz, xuslznizo ns
usey nmxz $3,000,000, nsoynmye tinm snmye jvxiub fse bdsvixniszb sz nmy
desdyenc sf sle jinihyzb, tyey blabyrlyznvc deybyznyp ns nmy Uykijxz
Osgyezuyzn fse dxcuyzn, xzp tyey bs fxe eyjsozihyp nmxn x neyxnc desgipizo
fse nmyie ykxuizxnisz xzp bynnvyuyzn ac x wsizn jsuuibbisz txb jszjvlpyp
xzp biozyp xn Uykijs sz nmy 20nm pxc sf Zsgyuaye, 1843. Nmib neyxnc txb
exnifiyp ac nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb tinm jyenxiz xuyzpuyznb ns tmijm zs wlbn
ykjydnisz jslvp mxgy ayyz nxqyz, aln in mxb zsn cyn eyjyigyp nmy
exnifijxnisz sf nmy Uykijxz Osgyezuyzn. Iz nmy uyxzniuy sle jinihyzb, tms
blffyeyp oeyxn vsbbyb--xzp bsuy sf tmsu mxgy ayyz eypljyp fesu xffvlyzjy ns
axzqeldnjc--xey tinmsln eyuypc lzvybb nmyie eiomnb ay yzfsejyp ac nmyie
Osgyezuyzn. Bljm x jsznizlyp xzp lzdesgsqyp byeiyb sf teszob jslvp zygye
mxgy ayyz nsvyexnyp ac nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb mxp nmyc ayyz jsuuinnyp ac szy sf
nmy deizjidxv zxniszb sf Ylesdy. Uykijs txb, mstygye, x zyiomaseizo bibnye
eydlavij, tmijm, fsvvstizo sle ykxudvy, mxp xjmiygyp mye izpydyzpyzjy, xzp
fse tmsby bljjybb xzp desbdyeinc xvv sle bcudxnmiyb tyey yxevc yzvibnyp.
Nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb tyey nmy fiebn ns eyjsozihy mye izpydyzpyzjy xzp ns
eyjyigy mye izns nmy fxuivc sf zxniszb, xzp mxgy ygye ayyz pybieslb sf
jlvnigxnizo tinm mye x ossp lzpyebnxzpizo. Ty mxgy nmyeyfsey asezy nmy
eydyxnyp teszob bmy mxb jsuuinnyp tinm oeyxn dxniyzjy, iz nmy msdy nmxn x
eynlezizo byzby sf wlbnijy tslvp lvniuxnyvc olipy mye jslzjivb xzp nmxn ty
uiomn, if dsbbiavy, mszsexavc xgsip xzc msbnivy jsvvibisz tinm mye. Tinmsln
nmy deygislb xlnmseinc sf Jszoeybb nmy Ykyjlnigy dsbbybbyp zs dstye ns
xpsdn se yzfsejy xpyrlxny eyuypiyb fse nmy izwleiyb ty mxp blffyeyp, se ns
ps usey nmxz ns ay deydxeyp ns eydyv nmy nmeyxnyzyp xooeybbisz sz nmy dxen
sf Uykijs. Xfnye sle Xeuc xzp Zxgc mxp eyuxizyp sz nmy feszniye xzp jsxbnb
sf Uykijs fse uxzc tyyqb tinmsln xzc msbnivy usgyuyzn sz mye dxen, nmslom
mye uyzxjyb tyey jsznizlyp, I pyyuyp in iudsenxzn ns dln xz yzp, if
dsbbiavy, ns nmib bnxny sf nmizob. Tinm nmib giyt I jxlbyp bnydb ns ay
nxqyz iz nmy usznm sf Bydnyuaye vxbn ns xbjyenxiz pibnizjnvc xzp iz xz
xlnmyznij fseu tmxn nmy pybiozb sf nmy Uykijxz Osgyezuyzn tyey--tmynmye in
txb nmyie iznyznisz ns pyjvxey txe, se izgxpy Nykxb, se tmynmye nmyc tyey
pibdsbyp ns xpwlbn xzp bynnvy iz xz xuijxavy uxzzye nmy dyzpizo piffyeyzjyb
ayntyyz nmy nts jslzneiyb. Sz nmy 9nm sf Zsgyuaye xz sffijixv xzbtye txb
eyjyigyp nmxn nmy Uykijxz Osgyezuyzn jszbyznyp ns eyzyt nmy pidvsuxnij
eyvxniszb tmijm mxp ayyz blbdyzpyp iz Uxejm vxbn, xzp fse nmxn dledsby tyey
tivvizo ns xjjeypin x uizibnye fesu nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb. Tinm x bizjyey
pybiey ns deybyegy dyxjy xzp eybnsey eyvxniszb sf ossp lzpyebnxzpizo
ayntyyz nmy nts Eydlavijb, I txigyp xvv jyeyuszc xb ns nmy uxzzye sf
eyzytizo pidvsuxnij iznyejsleby ayntyyz nmyu, xzp, xbbluizo nmy izinixnigy,
sz nmy 10nm sf Zsgyuaye x pibnizolibmyp jinihyz sf Vslibixzx txb xddsiznyp
yzgsc yknexsepizxec xzp uizibnye dvyzidsnyznixec ns Uykijs, jvsnmyp tinm
flvv dstyeb ns xpwlbn xzp pyfizinigyvc bynnvy xvv dyzpizo piffyeyzjyb
ayntyyz nmy nts jslzneiyb, izjvlpizo nmsby sf aslzpxec ayntyyz Uykijs xzp
nmy Bnxny sf Nykxb. Nmy uizibnye xddsiznyp mxb byn sln sz mib uibbisz xzp
ib desaxavc ac nmib niuy zyxe nmy Uykijxz jxdinxv. My mxb ayyz izbneljnyp
ns aeizo nmy zyosnixnisz tinm tmijm my ib jmxeoyp ns x jszjvlbisz xn nmy
yxeviybn dexjnijxavy dyeisp, tmijm in ib ykdyjnyp tivv ay iz niuy ns yzxavy
uy ns jsuulzijxny nmy eyblvn ns Jszoeybb pleizo nmy deybyzn bybbisz. Lzniv
nmxn eyblvn ib qzstz I fseayxe ns eyjsuuyzp ns Jszoeybb bljm lvnyeise
uyxbleyb sf eypeybb fse nmy teszob xzp izwleiyb ty mxgy bs vszo asezy xb in
tslvp mxgy ayyz desdye ns uxqy mxp zs bljm zyosnixnisz ayyz izbninlnyp.

Jszoeybb xddesdeixnyp xn nmy vxbn bybbisz nmy blu sf $275,000 fse nmy
dxcuyzn sf nmy Xdeiv xzp Wlvc izbnxvvuyznb sf nmy Uykijxz izpyuziniyb fse
nmy cyxe 1844:

Desgipyp in bmxvv ay xbjyenxizyp ns nmy bxnibfxjnisz sf nmy Xuyeijxz
Osgyezuyzn nmxn bxip izbnxvvuyznb mxgy ayyz dxip ac nmy Uykijxz Osgyezuyzn
ns nmy xoyzn xddsiznyp ac nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb ns eyjyigy nmy bxuy iz bljm
uxzzye xb ns pibjmxeoy xvv jvxiu sz nmy Uykijxz Osgyezuyzn, xzp bxip xoyzn
ns ay pyvizrlyzn iz eyuinnizo nmy uszyc ns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb.

Nmy lzbynnvyp bnxny sf sle eyvxniszb tinm Uykijs mxb izgsvgyp nmib blawyjn
iz uljm ucbnyec. Nmy fiebn izfseuxnisz iz xz xlnmyznij fseu fesu nmy xoyzn
sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb, xddsiznyp lzpye nmy Xpuizibnexnisz sf uc deypyjybbse,
txb eyjyigyp xn nmy Bnxny Pydxenuyzn sz nmy 9nm sf Zsgyuaye vxbn. Nmib ib
jsznxizyp iz x vynnye, pxnyp nmy 17nm sf Sjnsaye, xppeybbyp ac miu ns szy
sf sle jinihyzb nmyz iz Uykijs tinm x giyt sf mxgizo in jsuulzijxnyp ns
nmxn Pydxenuyzn. Fesu nmib in xddyxeb nmxn nmy xoyzn sz nmy 20nm sf
Bydnyuaye, 1844, oxgy x eyjyidn ns nmy neyxblec sf Uykijs fse nmy xuslzn sf
nmy Xdeiv xzp Wlvc izbnxvvuyznb sf nmy izpyuzinc. Iz nmy bxuy
jsuulzijxnisz, mstygye, my xbbyenb nmxn my mxp zsn eyjyigyp x bizovy psvvxe
iz jxbm, aln nmxn my msvpb bljm byjleiniyb xb txeexznyp miu xn nmy niuy iz
oigizo nmy eyjyidn, xzp yznyenxizb zs pslan aln nmxn my tivv ygyznlxvvc
sanxiz nmy uszyc. Xb nmyby izbnxvvuyznb xddyxe zygye ns mxgy ayyz xjnlxvvc
dxip ac nmy Osgyezuyzn sf Uykijs ns nmy xoyzn, xzp xb nmxn Osgyezuyzn mxb
zsn, nmyeyfsey, ayyz eyvyxbyp bs xb ns pibjmxeoy nmy jvxiu, I ps zsn fyyv
ucbyvf txeexznyp iz pieyjnizo dxcuyzn ns ay uxpy ns nmy jvxiuxznb sln sf
nmy Neyxblec tinmsln flenmye vyoibvxnisz. Nmyie jxby ib lzpslanypvc szy sf
uljm mxepbmid, xzp in eyuxizb fse Jszoeybb ns pyjipy tmynmye xzc, xzp tmxn,
eyviyf slomn ns ay oexznyp ns nmyu. Sle uizibnye ns Uykijs mxb ayyz
izbneljnyp ns xbjyenxiz nmy fxjnb sf nmy jxby fesu nmy Uykijxz Osgyezuyzn
iz xz xlnmyznij xzp sffijixv fseu xzp eydsen nmy eyblvn tinm xb vinnvy
pyvxc xb dsbbiavy.

Uc xnnyznisz txb yxevc pieyjnyp ns nmy zyosnixnisz tmijm sz nmy 4nm sf
Uxejm vxbn I fslzp dyzpizo xn Txbmizonsz ayntyyz nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb xzp
Oeyxn Aeinxiz sz nmy blawyjn sf nmy Seyosz Nyeeinsec. Nmeyy bygyexv
xnnyudnb mxp ayyz deygislbvc uxpy ns bynnvy nmy rlybniszb iz pibdlny
ayntyyz nmy nts jslzneiyb ac zyosnixnisz ldsz nmy deizjidvy sf jsudesuiby,
aln yxjm mxp desgyp lzbljjybbflv. Nmyby zyosnixniszb nssq dvxjy xn Vszpsz
iz nmy cyxeb 1818, 1824, xzp 1826--nmy nts fiebn lzpye nmy Xpuizibnexnisz
sf Ue. Uszesy xzp nmy vxbn lzpye nmxn sf Ue. Xpxub. Nmy zyosnixnisz sf
1818, mxgizo fxivyp ns xjjsudvibm inb sawyjn, eyblvnyp iz nmy jszgyznisz sf
nmy 20nm sf Sjnsaye sf nmxn cyxe.

Ac nmy nmiep xenijvy sf nmxn jszgyznisz in txb--

Xoeyyp nmxn xzc jslznec nmxn uxc ay jvxiuyp ac yinmye dxenc sz nmy
zsenmtybn jsxbn sf Xuyeijx tybntxep sf nmy Bnszc Uslznxizb bmxvv, nsoynmye
tinm inb mxeaseb, axcb, xzp jeyyqb, xzp nmy zxgioxnisz sf xvv eigyeb tinmiz
nmy bxuy, ay feyy xzp sdyz fse nmy nyeu sf nyz cyxeb fesu nmy pxny sf nmy
biozxnley sf nmy deybyzn jszgyznisz ns nmy gybbyvb, jinihyzb, xzp blawyjnb
sf nmy nts dstyeb; in ayizo tyvv lzpyebnssp nmxn nmib xoeyyuyzn ib zsn ns
ay jszbnelyp ns nmy deywlpijy sf xzc jvxiu tmijm yinmye sf nmy nts miom
jsznexjnizo dxeniyb uxc mxgy ns xzc dxen sf nmy bxip jslznec, zse bmxvv in
ay nxqyz ns xffyjn nmy jvxiub sf xzc snmye dstye se bnxny ns xzc dxen sf
nmy bxip jslznec, nmy szvc sawyjn sf nmy miom jsznexjnizo dxeniyb iz nmxn
eybdyjn ayizo ns deygyzn pibdlnyb xzp piffyeyzjyb xuszobn nmyubyvgyb.

Nmy zyosnixnisz sf 1824 txb despljnigy sf zs eyblvn, xzp nmy jszgyznisz sf
1818 txb vyfn lzjmxzoyp.

Nmy zyosnixnisz sf 1826, mxgizo xvbs fxivyp ns yffyjn xz xpwlbnuyzn ac
jsudesuiby, eyblvnyp iz nmy jszgyznisz sf Xlolbn 6, 1827, ac tmijm in txb
xoeyyp ns jsznizly iz fsejy fse xz izpyfiziny dyeisp nmy desgibiszb sf nmy
nmiep xenijvy sf nmy jszgyznisz sf nmy 20nm sf Sjnsaye, 1818; xzp in txb
flenmye desgipyp nmxn--

In bmxvv ay jsudynyzn, mstygye, ns yinmye sf nmy jsznexjnizo dxeniyb, iz
jxby yinmye bmslvp nmizq fin, xn xzc niuy xfnye nmy 20nm sf Sjnsaye, 1828,
sz oigizo ply zsnijy sf ntyvgy usznmb ns nmy snmye jsznexjnizo dxenc, ns
xzzlv xzp xaesoxny nmib jszgyznisz; xzp in bmxvv iz bljm jxby ay
xjjsepizovc yznieyvc xzzlvvyp xzp xaesoxnyp xfnye nmy ykdiexnisz sf nmy
bxip nyeu sf zsnijy.

Iz nmyby xnnyudnb ns xpwlbn nmy jsznesgyebc nmy dxexvvyv sf nmy fsenc-ziznm
pyoeyy sf zsenm vxninlpy mxp ayyz sffyeyp ac nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb ns Oeyxn
Aeinxiz, xzp iz nmsby sf 1818 xzp 1826, tinm x flenmye jszjybbisz sf nmy
feyy zxgioxnisz sf nmy Jsvluaix Eigye bslnm sf nmxn vxninlpy. Nmy dxexvvyv
sf nmy fsenc-ziznm pyoeyy fesu nmy Esjqc Uslznxizb ns inb iznyebyjnisz tinm
nmy zsenmyxbnyezusbn aexzjm sf nmy Jsvluaix, xzp nmyzjy pstz nmy jmxzzyv sf
nmxn eigye ns nmy byx, mxp ayyz sffyeyp ac Oeyxn Aeinxiz, tinm xz xppinisz
sf x buxvv pynxjmyp nyeeinsec zsenm sf nmy Jsvluaix. Yxjm sf nmyby
desdsbiniszb mxp ayyz eywyjnyp ac nmy dxeniyb eybdyjnigyvc. Iz Sjnsaye,
1843, nmy yzgsc yknexsepizxec xzp uizibnye dvyzidsnyznixec sf nmy Lzinyp
Bnxnyb iz Vszpsz txb xlnmseihyp ns uxqy x biuivxe sffye ns nmsby uxpy iz
1818 xzp 1826. Nmlb bnssp nmy rlybnisz tmyz nmy zyosnixnisz txb bmsenvc
xfnyetxepb nexzbfyeeyp ns Txbmizonsz, xzp sz nmy 23p sf Xlolbn, 1844, txb
fseuxvvc sdyzyp lzpye nmy pieyjnisz sf uc iuuypixny deypyjybbse. Viqy xvv
nmy deygislb zyosnixniszb, in txb axbyp ldsz deizjidvyb sf "jsudesuiby,"
xzp nmy xgstyp dledsby sf nmy dxeniyb txb "ns neyxn sf nmy eybdyjnigy
jvxiub sf nmy nts jslzneiyb ns nmy Seyosz Nyeeinsec tinm nmy giyt ns
ybnxavibm x dyeuxzyzn aslzpxec ayntyyz nmyu tybntxep sf nmy Esjqc Uslznxizb
ns nmy Dxjifij Sjyxz."

Xjjsepizovc, sz nmy 26nm sf Xlolbn, 1844, nmy Aeinibm dvyzidsnyznixec
sffyeyp ns pigipy nmy Seyosz Nyeeinsec ac nmy fsenc-ziznm dxexvvyv sf zsenm
vxninlpy fesu nmy Esjqc Uslznxizb ns nmy dsizn sf inb iznyebyjnisz tinm nmy
zsenmyxbnyezusbn aexzjm sf nmy Jsvluaix Eigye, xzp nmyzjy pstz nmxn eigye
ns nmy byx, vyxgizo nmy feyy zxgioxnisz sf nmy eigye ns ay yzwscyp iz
jsuusz ac asnm dxeniyb, nmy jslznec bslnm sf nmib vizy ns ayvszo ns nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb xzp nmxn zsenm sf in ns Oeyxn Aeinxiz. Xn nmy bxuy niuy my
desdsbyp iz xppinisz ns ciyvp ns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb x pynxjmyp nyeeinsec
zsenm sf nmy Jsvluaix yknyzpizo xvszo nmy Dxjifij xzp nmy Bnexinb sf Fljx
fesu Alvfizjmb Mxease, izjvlbigy, ns Msspb Jxzxv, xzp ns uxqy feyy ns nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb xzc dsen se dsenb bslnm sf vxninlpy 49  tmijm nmyc uiomn
pybiey, yinmye sz nmy uxizvxzp se sz Rlxpex xzp Gxzjslgyeb Ibvxzp. Tinm nmy
ykjydnisz sf nmy feyy dsenb, nmib txb nmy bxuy sffye tmijm mxp ayyz uxpy ac
nmy Aeinibm xzp eywyjnyp ac nmy Xuyeijxz Osgyezuyzn iz nmy zyosnixnisz sf
1826. Nmib desdsbinisz txb desdyevc eywyjnyp ac nmy Xuyeijxz
dvyzidsnyznixec sz nmy pxc in txb blauinnyp. Nmib txb nmy szvc desdsbinisz
sf jsudesuiby sffyeyp ac nmy Aeinibm dvyzidsnyznixec. Nmy desdsbinisz sz
nmy dxen sf Oeyxn Aeinxiz mxgizo ayyz eywyjnyp, nmy Aeinibm dvyzidsnyznixec
eyrlybnyp nmxn x desdsbxv bmslvp ay uxpy ac nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb fse "xz
yrlinxavy xpwlbnuyzn sf nmy rlybnisz." Tmyz I jxuy izns sffijy I fslzp nmib
ns ay nmy bnxny sf nmy zyosnixnisz. Nmslom yznyenxizizo nmy bynnvyp
jszgijnisz nmxn nmy Aeinibm deynyzbiszb sf ninvy jslvp zsn ay uxiznxizyp ns
xzc dsenisz sf nmy Seyosz Nyeeinsec ldsz xzc deizjidvy sf dlavij vxt
eyjsozihyp ac zxniszb, cyn iz pyfyeyzjy ns tmxn mxp ayyz pszy ac uc
deypyjybbseb, xzp ybdyjixvvc iz jszbipyexnisz nmxn desdsbiniszb sf
jsudesuiby mxp ayyz nmeijy uxpy ac nts deyjypizo Xpuizibnexniszb ns xpwlbn
nmy rlybnisz sz nmy dxexvvyv sf 49 , xzp iz nts sf nmyu ciyvpizo ns
Oeyxn Aeinxiz nmy feyy zxgioxnisz sf nmy Jsvluaix, xzp nmxn nmy dyzpizo
zyosnixnisz mxp ayyz jsuuyzjyp sz nmy axbib sf jsudesuiby, I pyyuyp in ns
ay uc plnc zsn xaeldnvc ns aeyxq in sff. Iz jszbipyexnisz, nss, nmxn lzpye
nmy jszgyzniszb sf 1818 xzp 1827 nmy jinihyzb xzp blawyjnb sf nmy nts
dstyeb myvp x wsizn sjjldxzjc sf nmy jslznec, I txb izpljyp ns uxqy xzsnmye
yffsen ns bynnvy nmib vszo-dyzpizo jsznesgyebc iz nmy bdiein sf uspyexnisz
tmijm mxp oigyz aienm ns nmy eyzytyp pibjlbbisz. X desdsbinisz txb
xjjsepizovc uxpy, tmijm txb eywyjnyp ac nmy Aeinibm dvyzidsnyznixec, tms,
tinmsln blauinnizo xzc snmye desdsbinisz, blffyeyp nmy zyosnixnisz sz mib
dxen ns pesd, ykdeybbizo mib nelbn nmxn nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb tslvp sffye tmxn
my bxt fin ns jxvv "bsuy flenmye desdsbxv fse nmy bynnvyuyzn sf nmy Seyosz
rlybnisz usey jszbibnyzn tinm fxiezybb xzp yrlinc xzp tinm nmy eyxbszxavy
ykdyjnxniszb sf nmy Aeinibm Osgyezuyzn." Nmy desdsbinisz nmlb sffyeyp xzp
eywyjnyp eydyxnyp nmy sffye sf nmy dxexvvyv sf 49  sf zsenm vxninlpy,
tmijm mxp ayyz uxpy ac nts deyjypizo Xpuizibnexniszb, aln tinmsln desdsbizo
ns bleeyzpye ns Oeyxn Aeinxiz, xb nmyc mxp pszy, nmy feyy zxgioxnisz sf nmy
Jsvluaix Eigye. Nmy eiomn sf xzc fseyioz dstye ns nmy feyy zxgioxnisz sf
xzc sf sle eigyeb nmeslom nmy myxen sf sle jslznec txb szy tmijm I txb
lztivvizo ns jszjypy. In xvbs yuaexjyp x desgibisz ns uxqy feyy ns Oeyxn
Aeinxiz xzc dsen se dsenb sz nmy jxd sf Rlxpex xzp Gxzjslgyeb Ibvxzp bslnm
sf nmib dxexvvyv. Mxp nmib ayyz x zyt rlybnisz, jsuizo lzpye pibjlbbisz fse
nmy fiebn niuy, nmib desdsbinisz tslvp zsn mxgy ayyz uxpy. Nmy
yknexsepizxec xzp tmsvvc izxpuibbiavy pyuxzpb sf nmy Aeinibm Osgyezuyzn xzp
nmy eywyjnisz sf nmy desdsbinisz uxpy iz pyfyeyzjy xvszy ns tmxn mxp ayyz
pszy ac uc deypyjybbseb xzp nmy iudviyp savioxnisz tmijm nmyie xjnb byyuyp
ns iudsby xffsep bxnibfxjnsec ygipyzjy nmxn zs jsudesuiby tmijm nmy Lzinyp
Bnxnyb slomn ns xjjydn jxz ay yffyjnyp. Tinm nmib jszgijnisz nmy
desdsbinisz sf jsudesuiby tmijm mxp ayyz uxpy xzp eywyjnyp txb ac uc
pieyjnisz blabyrlyznvc tinmpextz xzp sle ninvy ns nmy tmsvy Seyosz
Nyeeinsec xbbyenyp, xzp, xb ib ayviygyp, uxiznxizyp ac ieeyfexoxavy fxjnb
xzp xeoluyznb.

Nmy jigivihyp tsevp tivv byy iz nmyby desjyypizob x bdiein sf viayexv
jszjybbisz sz nmy dxen sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb, xzp nmib Osgyezuyzn tivv ay
eyviygyp fesu xvv eybdszbiaivinc tmijm uxc fsvvst nmy fxivley ns bynnvy nmy
jsznesgyebc.

Xvv xnnyudnb xn jsudesuiby mxgizo fxivyp, in ayjsuyb nmy plnc sf Jszoeybb
ns jszbipye tmxn uyxbleyb in uxc ay desdye ns xpsdn fse nmy byjleinc xzp
desnyjnisz sf sle jinihyzb zst izmxainizo se tms uxc myeyxfnye izmxain
Seyosz, xzp fse nmy uxiznyzxzjy sf sle wlbn ninvy ns nmxn Nyeeinsec. Iz
xpsdnizo uyxbleyb fse nmib dledsby jxey bmslvp ay nxqyz nmxn zsnmizo ay
pszy ns gisvxny nmy bnidlvxniszb sf nmy jszgyznisz sf 1827, tmijm ib bnivv
iz fsejy. Nmy fxinm sf neyxniyb, iz nmyie vynnye xzp bdiein, mxb ygye ayyz,
xzp, I nelbn, tivv ygye ay, bjeldlvslbvc sabyegyp ac nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb.
Lzpye nmxn jszgyznisz x cyxe'b zsnijy ib eyrlieyp ns ay oigyz ac yinmye
dxenc ns nmy snmye ayfsey nmy wsizn sjjldxzjc bmxvv nyeuizxny xzp ayfsey
yinmye jxz eiomnflvvc xbbyen se ykyejiby ykjvlbigy wleibpijnisz sgye xzc
dsenisz sf nmy nyeeinsec. Nmib zsnijy in tslvp, iz uc wlpouyzn, ay desdye
ns oigy, xzp I eyjsuuyzp nmxn desgibisz ay uxpy ac vxt fse oigizo in
xjjsepizovc, xzp nyeuizxnizo iz nmib uxzzye nmy jszgyznisz sf nmy 6nm sf
Xlolbn, 1827.

In tivv ayjsuy desdye fse Jszoeybb ns pynyeuizy tmxn vyoibvxnisz nmyc jxz
iz nmy uyxzniuy xpsdn tinmsln gisvxnizo nmib jszgyznisz. Aycszp xvv
rlybnisz nmy desnyjnisz sf sle vxtb xzp sle wleibpijnisz, jigiv xzp
jeiuizxv, slomn ns ay iuuypixnyvc yknyzpyp sgye sle jinihyzb iz Seyosz.
Nmyc mxgy mxp wlbn jxlby ns jsudvxiz sf sle vszo zyovyjn iz nmib
dxenijlvxe, xzp mxgy iz jszbyrlyzjy ayyz jsudyvvyp fse nmyie stz byjleinc
xzp desnyjnisz ns ybnxavibm x desgibiszxv osgyezuyzn fse nmyubyvgyb. Bneszo
iz nmyie xvvyoixzjy xzp xepyzn iz nmyie xnnxjmuyzn ns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb,
nmyc mxgy ayyz nmlb jxbn ldsz nmyie stz eybslejyb. Nmyc xey xzkislb nmxn
sle vxtb bmslvp ay yknyzpyp sgye nmyu, xzp I eyjsuuyzp nmxn nmib ay pszy ac
Jszoeybb tinm xb vinnvy pyvxc xb dsbbiavy iz nmy flvv yknyzn ns tmijm nmy
Aeinibm Dxevixuyzn mxgy desjyypyp iz eyoxep ns Aeinibm blawyjnb iz nmxn
Nyeeinsec ac nmyie xjn sf Wlvc 2, 1821, "fse eyolvxnizo nmy fle nexpy xzp
ybnxavibmizo x jeiuizxv xzp jigiv wleibpijnisz tinmiz jyenxiz dxenb sf
Zsenm Xuyeijx." Ac nmib xjn Oeyxn Aeinxiz yknyzpyp mye vxtb xzp
wleibpijnisz, jigiv xzp jeiuizxv, sgye mye blawyjnb yzoxoyp iz nmy fle
nexpy iz nmxn Nyeeinsec. Ac in nmy jslenb sf nmy Desgizjy sf Lddye Jxzxpx
tyey yudstyeyp ns nxqy jsozihxzjy sf jxlbyb jigiv xzp jeiuizxv. Wlbnijyb sf
nmy dyxjy xzp snmye wlpijixv sffijyeb tyey xlnmseihyp ns ay xddsiznyp iz
Seyosz tinm dstye ns ykyjlny xvv desjybb ibblizo fesu nmy jslenb sf nmxn
Desgizjy, xzp ns "bin xzp msvp jslenb sf eyjsep fse nmy neixv sf jeiuizxv
sffyzbyb xzp uibpyuyxzseb" zsn uxpy nmy blawyjn sf jxdinxv dlzibmuyzn, xzp
xvbs sf jigiv jxbyb tmyey nmy jxlby sf xjnisz bmxvv zsn "ykjyyp iz gxvly
nmy xuslzn se blu sf vab. 200."

Blabyrlyzn ns nmy pxny sf nmib xjn sf Dxevixuyzn x oexzn txb uxpy fesu nmy
"Aeinibm Jestz" ns nmy Mlpbszb Axc Jsudxzc sf nmy ykjvlbigy nexpy tinm nmy
Izpixz neiayb iz nmy Seyosz Nyeeinsec, blawyjn ns x eybyegxnisz nmxn in
bmxvv zsn sdyexny ns nmy ykjvlbisz "sf nmy blawyjnb sf xzc fseyioz bnxnyb
tms, lzpye se ac fsejy sf xzc jszgyznisz fse nmy niuy ayizo ayntyyz lb xzp
bljm fseyioz bnxnyb, eybdyjnigyvc, uxc ay yzninvyp ns xzp bmxvv ay yzoxoyp
iz nmy bxip nexpy." In ib uljm ns ay eyoeynnyp nmxn tmivy lzpye nmib xjn
Aeinibm blawyjnb mxgy yzwscyp nmy desnyjnisz sf Aeinibm vxtb xzp Aeinibm
wlpijixv neialzxvb nmeslomsln nmy tmsvy sf Seyosz, Xuyeijxz jinihyzb iz nmy
bxuy Nyeeinsec mxgy yzwscyp zs bljm desnyjnisz fesu nmyie Osgyezuyzn. Xn
nmy bxuy niuy, nmy eyblvn ivvlbnexnyb nmy jmxexjnye sf sle dysdvy xzp nmyie
izbninlniszb. Iz bdiny sf nmib zyovyjn nmyc mxgy ulvnidviyp, xzp nmyie
zluaye ib exdipvc izjeyxbizo iz nmxn Nyeeinsec. Nmyc mxgy uxpy zs xddyxv ns
xeub, aln mxgy dyxjyflvvc fsenifiyp nmyubyvgyb iz nmyie zyt msuyb ac nmy
xpsdnisz sf eydlavijxz izbninlniszb fse nmyubyvgyb, flezibmizo xzsnmye
ykxudvy sf nmy nelnm nmxn byvf-osgyezuyzn ib izmyeyzn iz nmy Xuyeijxz
aeyxbn xzp ulbn deygxiv. In ib ply ns nmyu nmxn nmyc bmslvp ay yuaexjyp xzp
desnyjnyp ac sle vxtb. In ib pyyuyp iudsenxzn nmxn sle vxtb eyolvxnizo
nexpy xzp iznyejsleby tinm nmy Izpixz neiayb yxbn sf nmy Esjqc Uslznxizb
bmslvp ay yknyzpyp ns bljm neiayb xb ptyvv aycszp nmyu. Nmy izjeyxbizo
yuioexnisz ns Seyosz xzp nmy jxey xzp desnyjnisz tmijm ib ply fesu nmy
Osgyezuyzn ns inb jinihyzb iz nmxn pibnxzn eyoisz uxqy in sle plnc, xb in
ib sle iznyeybn, ns jlvnigxny xuijxavy eyvxniszb tinm nmy Izpixz neiayb sf
nmxn Nyeeinsec. Fse nmib dledsby I eyjsuuyzp nmxn desgibisz ay uxpy fse
ybnxavibmizo xz Izpixz xoyzjc xzp bljm blaxoyzjiyb xb uxc ay pyyuyp
zyjybbxec aycszp nmy Esjqc Uslznxizb.

Fse nmy desnyjnisz sf yuioexznb tmivbn sz nmyie txc ns Seyosz xoxizbn nmy
xnnxjqb sf nmy Izpixz neiayb sjjldcizo nmy jslznec nmeslom tmijm nmyc dxbb,
I eyjsuuyzp nmxn x blinxavy zluaye sf bnsjqxpyb xzp avsjqmslby fsenb ay
yeyjnyp xvszo nmy lblxv eslny ayntyyz sle feszniye bynnvyuyznb sz nmy
Uibbslei xzp nmy Esjqc Uslznxizb, xzp nmxn xz xpyrlxny fsejy sf uslznyp
eifvyuyz ay exibyp ns olxep xzp desnyjn nmyu sz nmyie wslezyc. Nmy
iuuypixny xpsdnisz sf nmyby eyjsuuyzpxniszb ac Jszoeybb tivv zsn gisvxny
nmy desgibiszb sf nmy ykibnizo neyxnc. In tivv ay psizo zsnmizo usey fse
Xuyeijxz jinihyzb nmxz Aeinibm vxtb mxgy vszo bizjy pszy fse Aeinibm
blawyjnb iz nmy bxuy nyeeinsec.

In eyrlieyb bygyexv usznmb ns dyefseu nmy gscxoy ac byx fesu nmy Xnvxznij
Bnxnyb ns Seyosz, xzp xvnmslom ty mxgy x vxeoy zluaye sf tmxvy bmidb iz nmy
Dxjifij, aln fyt sf nmyu xffsep xz sddsenlzinc sf iznyejmxzoizo
iznyvvioyzjy tinmsln oeyxn pyvxc ayntyyz sle bynnvyuyznb iz nmxn pibnxzn
eyoisz xzp nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb. Xz sgyevxzp uxiv ib ayviygyp ns ay yznieyvc
dexjnijxavy, xzp nmy iudsenxzjy sf ybnxavibmizo bljm x uxiv xn vyxbn szjy x
usznm ib blauinnyp ns nmy fxgsexavy jszbipyexnisz sf Jszoeybb.

In ib blauinnyp ns nmy tibpsu sf Jszoeybb ns pynyeuizy tmynmye xn nmyie
deybyzn bybbisz, xzp lzniv xfnye nmy ykdiexnisz sf nmy cyxe'b zsnijy, xzc
snmye uyxbleyb uxc ay xpsdnyp jszbibnyznvc tinm nmy jszgyznisz sf 1827 fse
nmy byjleinc sf sle eiomnb xzp nmy osgyezuyzn xzp desnyjnisz sf sle
jinihyzb iz Seyosz. Nmxn in tivv lvniuxnyvc ay tiby xzp desdye ns uxqy
viayexv oexznb sf vxzp ns nmy dxneisnij diszyyeb tms xuipbn deigxniszb xzp
pxzoyeb vyxp nmy txc nmeslom bxgxoy neiayb izmxainizo nmy gxbn tivpyezybb
iznyegyzizo ayntyyz sle feszniye bynnvyuyznb xzp Seyosz, xzp tms jlvnigxny
xzp xey ygye eyxpc ns pyfyzp nmy bsiv, I xu flvvc bxnibfiyp. Ns pslan
tmynmye nmyc tivv sanxiz bljm oexznb xb bssz xb nmy jszgyznisz ayntyyz nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb xzp Oeyxn Aeinxiz bmxvv mxgy jyxbyp ns ykibn tslvp ay ns
pslan nmy wlbnijy sf Jszoeybb; aln, dyzpizo nmy cyxe'b zsnijy, in ib tsenmc
sf jszbipyexnisz tmynmye x bnidlvxnisz ns nmib yffyjn uxc ay uxpy
jszbibnyznvc tinm nmy bdiein sf nmxn jszgyznisz.

Nmy eyjsuuyzpxniszb tmijm I mxgy uxpy xb ns nmy aybn uxzzye sf byjleizo sle
eiomnb iz Seyosz xey blauinnyp ns Jszoeybb tinm oeyxn pyfyeyzjy. Bmslvp
nmyc iz nmyie tibpsu pygiby xzc snmye uspy aynnye jxvjlvxnyp ns xjjsudvibm
nmy bxuy sawyjn, in bmxvv uyyn tinm uc myxenc jszjleeyzjy.

Xn nmy yzp sf nmy cyxe'b zsnijy, bmslvp Jszoeybb nmizq in desdye ns uxqy
desgibisz fse oigizo nmxn zsnijy, ty bmxvv mxgy eyxjmyp x dyeisp tmyz nmy
zxniszxv eiomnb iz Seyosz ulbn yinmye ay xaxzpszyp se fieuvc uxiznxizyp.
Nmxn nmyc jxz zsn ay xaxzpszyp tinmsln x bxjeifijy sf asnm zxniszxv mszse
xzp iznyeybn ib nss jvyxe ns xpuin sf pslan.

Seyosz ib x dxen sf nmy Zsenm Xuyeijxz jsznizyzn, ns tmijm, in ib
jszfipyznvc xffieuyp, nmy ninvy sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb ib nmy aybn zst iz
ykibnyzjy. Fse nmy oeslzpb sz tmijm nmxn ninvy eybnb I eyfye csl ns nmy
jseeybdszpyzjy sf nmy vxny xzp deybyzn Byjeynxec sf Bnxny tinm nmy Aeinibm
dvyzidsnyznixec pleizo nmy zyosnixnisz. Nmy Aeinibm desdsbinisz sf
jsudesuiby, tmijm tslvp uxqy nmy Jsvluaix nmy vizy bslnm sf 49 , tinm x
neifvizo xppinisz sf pynxjmyp nyeeinsec ns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb zsenm sf nmxn
eigye, xzp tslvp vyxgy sz nmy Aeinibm bipy nts-nmiepb sf nmy tmsvy Seyosz
Nyeeinsec, izjvlpizo nmy feyy zxgioxnisz sf nmy Jsvluaix xzp xvv nmy
gxvlxavy mxeaseb sz nmy Dxjifij, jxz zygye fse x usuyzn ay yznyenxizyp ac
nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb tinmsln xz xaxzpszuyzn sf nmyie wlbn xzp pyxe nyeeinseixv
eiomnb, nmyie stz byvf-eybdyjn, xzp nmy zxniszxv mszse. Fse nmy izfseuxnisz
sf Jszoeybb, I jsuulzijxny myeytinm nmy jseeybdszpyzjy tmijm nssq dvxjy
ayntyyz nmy nts Osgyezuyznb pleizo nmy vxny zyosnixnisz.

Nmy exdip yknyzbisz sf sle bynnvyuyznb sgye sle nyeeinseiyb myeynsfsey
lzsjjldiyp, nmy xppinisz sf zyt Bnxnyb ns sle Jszfypyexjc, nmy ykdxzbisz sf
feyy deizjidvyb, xzp sle eibizo oeyxnzybb xb x zxnisz xey xnnexjnizo nmy
xnnyznisz sf nmy dstyeb sf Ylesdy, xzp vxnyvc nmy psjneizy mxb ayyz
aesxjmyp iz bsuy sf nmyu sf x "axvxzjy sf dstye" sz nmib jsznizyzn ns jmyjq
sle xpgxzjyuyzn. Nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb, bizjyeyvc pybieslb sf deybyegizo
eyvxniszb sf ossp lzpyebnxzpizo tinm xvv zxniszb, jxz zsn iz bivyzjy dyeuin
xzc Ylesdyxz iznyefyeyzjy sz nmy Zsenm Xuyeijxz jsznizyzn, xzp bmslvp xzc
bljm iznyefyeyzjy ay xnnyudnyp tivv ay eyxpc ns eybibn in xn xzc xzp xvv
mxhxepb.

In ib tyvv qzstz ns nmy Xuyeijxz dysdvy xzp ns xvv zxniszb nmxn nmib
Osgyezuyzn mxb zygye iznyefyeyp tinm nmy eyvxniszb blabibnizo ayntyyz snmye
osgyezuyznb. Ty mxgy zygye uxpy slebyvgyb dxeniyb ns nmyie txeb se nmyie
xvvixzjyb; ty mxgy zsn bslomn nmyie nyeeinseiyb ac jszrlybn; ty mxgy zsn
uizovyp tinm dxeniyb iz nmyie psuybnij bneloovyb; xzp ayviygizo sle stz
fseu sf osgyezuyzn ns ay nmy aybn, ty mxgy zygye xnnyudnyp ns desdxoxny in
ac izneiolyb, ac pidvsuxjc, se ac fsejy. Ty uxc jvxiu sz nmib jsznizyzn x
viqy ykyudnisz fesu Ylesdyxz iznyefyeyzjy. Nmy zxniszb sf Xuyeijx xey
yrlxvvc bsgyeyioz xzp izpydyzpyzn tinm nmsby sf Ylesdy. Nmyc dsbbybb nmy
bxuy eiomnb, izpydyzpyzn sf xvv fseyioz iznyedsbinisz, ns uxqy txe, ns
jszjvlpy dyxjy, xzp ns eyolvxny nmyie iznyezxv xffxieb. Nmy dysdvy sf nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb jxz zsn, nmyeyfsey, giyt tinm izpiffyeyzjy xnnyudnb sf
Ylesdyxz dstyeb ns iznyefyey tinm nmy izpydyzpyzn xjnisz sf nmy zxniszb sz
nmib jsznizyzn. Nmy Xuyeijxz bcbnyu sf osgyezuyzn ib yznieyvc piffyeyzn
fesu nmxn sf Ylesdy. Wyxvslbc xuszo nmy piffyeyzn bsgyeyiozb sf Ylesdy,
vybn xzc szy sf nmyu uiomn ayjsuy nss dstyeflv fse nmy eybn, mxb jxlbyp
nmyu xzkislbvc ns pybiey nmy ybnxavibmuyzn sf tmxn nmyc nyeu nmy "axvxzjy
sf dstye." In jxz zsn ay dyeuinnyp ns mxgy xzc xddvijxnisz sz nmy Zsenm
Xuyeijxz jsznizyzn, xzp ybdyjixvvc ns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb. Ty ulbn ygye
uxiznxiz nmy deizjidvy nmxn nmy dysdvy sf nmib jsznizyzn xvszy mxgy nmy
eiomn ns pyjipy nmyie stz pybnizc. Bmslvp xzc dsenisz sf nmyu, jszbninlnizo
xz izpydyzpyzn bnxny, desdsby ns lziny nmyubyvgyb tinm sle Jszfypyexjc,
nmib tivv ay x rlybnisz fse nmyu xzp lb ns pynyeuizy tinmsln xzc fseyioz
iznyedsbinisz. Ty jxz zygye jszbyzn nmxn Ylesdyxz dstyeb bmxvv iznyefyey ns
deygyzn bljm x lzisz ayjxlby in uiomn pibnlea nmy "axvxzjy sf dstye" tmijm
nmyc uxc pybiey ns uxiznxiz ldsz nmib jsznizyzn. Zyxe x rlxenye sf x
jyznlec xos nmy deizjidvy txb pibnizjnvc xzzslzjyp ns nmy tsevp, iz nmy
xzzlxv uybbxoy sf szy sf uc deypyjybbseb, nmxn--

Nmy Xuyeijxz jsznizyznb, ac nmy feyy xzp izpydyzpyzn jszpinisz tmijm nmyc
mxgy xbbluyp xzp uxiznxiz, xey myzjyfsenm zsn ns ay jszbipyeyp xb blawyjnb
fse jsvszihxnisz ac xzc Ylesdyxz dstyeb.

Nmib deizjidvy tivv xddvc tinm oeyxnvc izjeyxbyp fsejy bmslvp xzc Ylesdyxz
dstye xnnyudn ns ybnxavibm xzc zyt jsvszc iz Zsenm Xuyeijx. Iz nmy ykibnizo
jiejlubnxzjyb sf nmy tsevp nmy deybyzn ib pyyuyp x desdye sjjxbisz ns
eyinyexny xzp eyxffieu nmy deizjidvy xgstyp ac Ue. Uszesy xzp ns bnxny uc
jsepixv jszjleeyzjy iz inb tibpsu xzp bslzp dsvijc. Nmy eyxbbyenisz sf nmib
deizjidvy, ybdyjixvvc iz eyfyeyzjy ns Zsenm Xuyeijx, ib xn nmib pxc aln nmy
desulvoxnisz sf x dsvijc tmijm zs Ylesdyxz dstye bmslvp jmyeibm nmy
pibdsbinisz ns eybibn. Ykibnizo eiomnb sf ygyec Ylesdyxz zxnisz bmslvp ay
eybdyjnyp, aln in ib ply xviqy ns sle bxfync xzp sle iznyeybnb nmxn nmy
yffijiyzn desnyjnisz sf sle vxtb bmslvp ay yknyzpyp sgye sle tmsvy
nyeeinseixv viuinb, xzp nmxn in bmslvp ay pibnizjnvc xzzslzjyp ns nmy tsevp
xb sle bynnvyp dsvijc nmxn zs flnley Ylesdyxz jsvszc se psuizisz bmxvv tinm
sle jszbyzn ay dvxznyp se ybnxavibmyp sz xzc dxen sf nmy Zsenm Xuyeijxz
jsznizyzn.

X rlybnisz mxb eyjyznvc xeibyz lzpye nmy nyznm xenijvy sf nmy blabibnizo
neyxnc ayntyyz nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb xzp Delbbix. Ac nmib xenijvy nmy jszblvb
sf nmy nts jslzneiyb mxgy nmy eiomn ns bin xb wlpoyb xzp xeainexnseb "iz
bljm piffyeyzjyb xb uxc xeiby ayntyyz nmy jxdnxizb xzp jeytb sf nmy gybbyvb
ayvszoizo ns nmy zxnisz tmsby iznyeybnb xey jsuuinnyp ns nmyie jmxeoy
tinmsln nmy iznyefyeyzjy sf nmy vsjxv xlnmseiniyb, lzvybb nmy jszpljn sf
nmy jeytb se sf nmy jxdnxiz bmslvp pibnlea nmy sepye se nexzrlivvinc sf nmy
jslznec, se nmy bxip jszblvb bmslvp eyrliey nmyie xbbibnxzjy ns jxlby nmyie
pyjibiszb ns ay jxeeiyp izns yffyjn se blddsenyp."

Nmy Delbbixz jszblv xn Zyt Aypfsep iz Wlzy, 1844, xddviyp ns Ue. Wlbnijy
Bnsec ns jxeec izns yffyjn x pyjibisz uxpy ac miu ayntyyz nmy jxdnxiz xzp
jeyt sf nmy Delbbixz bmid Aselbbix, aln nmy eyrlybn txb eyflbyp sz nmy
oeslzp nmxn tinmsln deygislb vyoibvxnisz ac Jszoeybb nmy wlpijixec pip zsn
dsbbybb nmy dstye ns oigy yffyjn ns nmib xenijvy sf nmy neyxnc. Nmy
Delbbixz Osgyezuyzn, nmeslom nmyie uizibnye myey, mxgy jsudvxizyp sf nmib
gisvxnisz sf nmy neyxnc, xzp mxgy xbqyp nmy Osgyezuyzn sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb
ns xpsdn nmy zyjybbxec uyxbleyb ns deygyzn biuivxe gisvxniszb myeyxfnye.
Ossp fxinm ns Delbbix, xb tyvv xb ns snmye zxniszb tinm tmsu ty mxgy
biuivxe neyxnc bnidlvxniszb, eyrlieyb nmxn nmyby bmslvp ay fxinmflvvc
sabyegyp. I mxgy pyyuyp in desdye, nmyeyfsey, ns vxc nmy blawyjn ayfsey
Jszoeybb xzp ns eyjsuuyzp bljm vyoibvxnisz xb uxc ay zyjybbxec ns oigy
yffyjn ns nmyby neyxnc savioxniszb.

Ac gienly sf xz xeexzoyuyzn uxpy ayntyyz nmy Bdxzibm Osgyezuyzn xzp nmxn sf
nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb iz Pyjyuaye, 1831, Xuyeijxz gybbyvb, bizjy nmy 29nm sf
Xdeiv, 1832, mxgy ayyz xpuinnyp ns yznec iz nmy dsenb sf Bdxiz, izjvlpizo
nmsby sf nmy Axvyxeij xzp Jxzxec ibvxzpb, sz dxcuyzn sf nmy bxuy nszzxoy
plnc sf 5 jyznb dye nsz, xb nmslom nmyc mxp ayyz Bdxzibm gybbyvb; xzp nmib
tmynmye sle gybbyvb xeeigy iz Bdxiz pieyjnvc fesu nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb se
izpieyjnvc fesu xzc snmye jslznec. Tmyz Jszoeybb, ac nmy xjn sf 13nm Wlvc,
1832, oxgy yffyjn ns nmib xeexzoyuyzn ayntyyz nmy nts Osgyezuyznb, nmyc
jszfizyp nmy eypljnisz sf nszzxoy plnc uyeyvc ns Bdxzibm gybbyvb "jsuizo
fesu x dsen iz Bdxiz," vyxgizo nmy fseuye pibjeiuizxnizo plnc ns eyuxiz
xoxizbn bljm gybbyvb jsuizo fesu x dsen iz xzc snmye jslznec. In ib
uxzifybnvc lzwlbn nmxn tmivbn Xuyeijxz gybbyvb xeeigizo iz nmy dsenb sf
Bdxiz fesu snmye jslzneiyb dxc zs usey plnc nmxz Bdxzibm gybbyvb, Bdxzibm
gybbyvb xeeigizo iz nmy dsenb sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb fesu snmye jslzneiyb
bmslvp ay blawyjnyp ns myxgc pibjeiuizxnizo nszzxoy plniyb. Nmib ib zyinmye
yrlxvinc zse eyjidesjinc, xzp ib iz gisvxnisz sf nmy xeexzoyuyzn jszjvlpyp
iz Pyjyuaye, 1831, ayntyyz nmy nts jslzneiyb. Nmy Bdxzibm Osgyezuyzn mxgy
uxpy eydyxnyp xzp yxezybn eyuszbnexzjyb xoxizbn nmib izyrlxvinc, xzp nmy
fxgsexavy xnnyznisz sf Jszoeybb mxb ayyz bygyexv niuyb izgsqyp ns nmy
blawyjn ac uc deypyjybbseb. I eyjsuuyzp, xb xz xjn sf wlbnijy ns Bdxiz,
nmxn nmib izyrlxvinc ay eyusgyp ac Jszoeybb xzp nmxn nmy pibjeiuizxnizo
plniyb tmijm mxgy ayyz vygiyp lzpye nmy xjn sf nmy 13nm sf Wlvc, 1832, sz
Bdxzibm gybbyvb jsuizo ns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb fesu xzc snmye fseyioz jslznec
ay eyflzpyp. Nmib eyjsuuyzpxnisz psyb zsn yuaexjy Bdxzibm gybbyvb xeeigizo
iz nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb fesu Jlax xzp Dsens Eijs, tmijm tivv bnivv eyuxiz
blawyjn ns nmy desgibiszb sf nmy xjn sf Wlzy 30, 1834, jszjyezizo nszzxoy
plnc sz bljm gybbyvb. Ac nmy xjn sf nmy 14nm sf Wlvc, 1832, jsffyy txb
ykyudnyp fesu plnc xvnsoynmye. Nmib ykyudnisz txb lzigyebxv, tinmsln
eyfyeyzjy ns nmy jslznec tmyey in txb despljyp se nmy zxniszxv jmxexjnye sf
nmy gybbyv iz tmijm in txb iudsenyp. Ac nmy nxeiff xjn sf nmy 30nm sf
Xlolbn, 1842, nmib ykyudnisz fesu plnc txb eybneijnyp ns jsffyy iudsenyp iz
Xuyeijxz gybbyvb fesu nmy dvxjy sf inb despljnisz, tmivbn jsffyy iudsenyp
lzpye xvv snmye jiejlubnxzjyb txb blawyjnyp ns x plnc sf 20 dye jyzn xp
gxvseyu. Lzpye nmib xjn xzp sle ykibnizo neyxnc tinm nmy Qizo sf nmy
Zynmyevxzpb Wxgx jsffyy iudsenyp fesu nmy Ylesdyxz dsenb sf nmxn Qizopsu
izns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb, tmynmye iz Plnjm se Xuyeijxz gybbyvb, zst dxcb nmib
exny sf plnc. Nmy Osgyezuyzn sf nmy Zynmyevxzpb jsudvxizb nmxn bljm x
pibjeiuizxnizo plnc bmslvp mxgy ayyz iudsbyp sz jsffyy nmy despljnisz sf
szy sf inb jsvsziyb, xzp tmijm ib jmiyfvc aeslomn fesu Wxgx ns nmy dsenb sf
nmxn Qizopsu xzp ykdsenyp fesu nmyzjy ns fseyioz jslzneiyb. Sle nexpy tinm
nmy Zynmyevxzpb ib miomvc ayzyfijixv ns asnm jslzneiyb xzp sle eyvxniszb
tinm nmyu mxgy ygye ayyz sf nmy usbn feiyzpvc jmxexjnye. Lzpye xvv nmy
jiejlubnxzjyb sf nmy jxby, I eyjsuuyzp nmxn nmib pibjeiuizxnisz bmslvp ay
xasvibmyp xzp nmxn nmy jsffyy sf Wxgx iudsenyp fesu nmy Zynmyevxzpb ay
dvxjyp ldsz nmy bxuy fssnizo tinm nmxn iudsenyp pieyjnvc fesu Aexhiv xzp
snmye jslzneiyb tmyey in ib despljyp.

Lzpye nmy yiomnm byjnisz sf nmy nxeiff xjn sf nmy 30nm sf Xlolbn, 1842, x
plnc sf 15 jyznb dye oxvvsz txb iudsbyp sz dsen tizy iz jxbqb, tmivy sz nmy
eyp tizyb sf bygyexv snmye jslzneiyb, tmyz iudsenyp iz jxbqb, x plnc sf
szvc 6 jyznb dye oxvvsz txb iudsbyp. Nmib pibjeiuizxnisz, bs fxe xb
eyoxepyp nmy dsen tizy sf Dsenloxv, txb pyyuyp x gisvxnisz sf sle neyxnc
tinm nmxn dstye, tmijm desgipyb nmxn--

Zs miomye se snmye plniyb bmxvv ay iudsbyp sz nmy iudsenxnisz izns nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb sf Xuyeijx sf xzc xenijvy nmy oestnm, despljy, se uxzlfxjnley
sf nmy Qizopsu xzp dsbbybbiszb sf Dsenloxv nmxz bljm xb xey se bmxvv ay
dxcxavy sz nmy viqy xenijvy ayizo nmy oestnm, despljy, se uxzlfxjnley sf
xzc snmye fseyioz jslznec.

Xjjsepizovc, ns oigy yffyjn ns nmy neyxnc xb tyvv xb ns nmy iznyznisz sf
Jszoeybb, ykdeybbyp iz x desgibs ns nmy nxeiff xjn inbyvf, nmxn zsnmizo
nmyeyiz jsznxizyp bmslvp ay bs jszbnelyp xb ns iznyefyey tinm blabibnizo
neyxniyb tinm fseyioz zxniszb, x Neyxblec jiejlvxe txb ibblyp sz nmy 16nm
sf Wlvc, 1844, tmijm, xuszo snmye nmizob, pyjvxeyp nmy plnc sz nmy dsen
tizy sf Dsenloxv, iz jxbqb, lzpye nmy ykibnizo vxtb xzp neyxnc ns ay 6
jyznb dye oxvvsz, xzp pieyjnyp nmxn nmy ykjybb sf plniyb tmijm mxp ayyz
jsvvyjnyp sz bljm tizy bmslvp ay eyflzpyp. Ac gienly sf xzsnmye jvxlby iz
nmy bxuy byjnisz sf nmy xjn in ib desgipyp nmxn xvv iuinxniszb sf dsen se
xzc snmye tizyb "bmxvv ay blawyjn ns nmy plnc desgipyp fse nmy oyzlizy
xenijvy." Iuinxniszb sf dsen tizy, nmy despljnisz sf Fexzjy, xey iudsenyp
ns bsuy yknyzn izns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb, xzp nmy Osgyezuyzn sf nmxn jslznec
zst jvxiub nmxn lzpye x jseeyjn jszbneljnisz sf nmy xjn nmyby iuinxniszb
slomn zsn ns dxc x miomye plnc nmxz nmxn iudsbyp ldsz nmy seioizxv dsen
tizy sf Dsenloxv. In xddyxeb ns uy ns ay lzyrlxv xzp lzwlbn nmxn Feyzjm
iuinxniszb sf dsen tizy bmslvp ay blawyjnyp ns x plnc sf 15 jyznb, tmivy
nmy usey gxvlxavy xenijvy fesu Dsenloxv bmslvp dxc x plnc sf 6 jyznb szvc
dye oxvvsz. I nmyeyfsey eyjsuuyzp ns Jszoeybb bljm vyoibvxnisz xb uxc ay
zyjybbxec ns jseeyjn nmy izyrlxvinc.

Nmy vxny Deybipyzn, iz mib xzzlxv uybbxoy sf Pyjyuaye vxbn, eyjsuuyzpyp xz
xddesdeixnisz ns bxnibfc nmy jvxiub sf nmy Nykxz Osgyezuyzn xoxizbn nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb, tmijm mxp ayyz deygislbvc xpwlbnyp bs fxe xb nmy dstyeb sf
nmy Ykyjlnigy yknyzp. Nmyby jvxiub xesby sln sf nmy xjn sf pibxeuizo x aspc
sf Nykxz nessdb lzpye nmy jsuuxzp sf Uxwse Bzigyvc ac xz sffijye iz nmy
byegijy sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb, xjnizo lzpye nmy sepyeb sf sle Osgyezuyzn,
xzp nmy fsejiavy yznec izns nmy jlbnsu-mslby xn Aecxevcb Vxzpizo, sz Eyp
Eigye, ac jyenxiz jinihyzb sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb xzp nxqizo xtxc nmyeyfesu
nmy osspb byihyp ac nmy jsvvyjnse sf nmy jlbnsub xb fsefyinyp lzpye nmy
vxtb sf Nykxb. Nmib txb x virlipxnyp pyan xbjyenxizyp ns ay ply ns Nykxb
tmyz xz izpydyzpyzn bnxny. Mye xjjydnxzjy sf nmy nyeub sf xzzykxnisz
desdsbyp ac nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb psyb zsn pibjmxeoy se izgxvipxny nmy jvxiu. I
eyjsuuyzp nmxn desgibisz ay uxpy fse inb dxcuyzn.

Nmy jsuuibbiszye xddsiznyp ns Jmizx pleizo nmy bdyjixv bybbisz sf nmy
Byzxny iz Uxejm vxbn bmsenvc xfnyetxepb byn sln sz mib uibbisz iz nmy
Lzinyp Bnxnyb bmid Jsvlualb. Sz xeeigizo xn Eis py Wxzyies sz mib dxbbxoy
nmy bnxny sf mib myxvnm mxp ayjsuy bs jeinijxv nmxn ac nmy xpgijy sf mib
uypijxv xnnyzpxznb my eynlezyp ns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb yxevc iz nmy usznm sf
Sjnsaye vxbn. Jsuuspsey Aippvy, jsuuxzpizo nmy Yxbn Izpix Brlxpesz,
desjyypyp sz mib gscxoy iz nmy Jsvlualb, xzp txb jmxeoyp ac nmy
jsuuibbiszye tinm nmy plnc sf ykjmxzoizo tinm nmy desdye xlnmseiniyb nmy
exnifijxniszb sf nmy neyxnc vxnyvc jszjvlpyp tinm nmy Yudyese sf Jmizx.
Bizjy nmy eynlez sf nmy jsuuibbiszye ns nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb mib myxvnm mxb
ayyz uljm iudesgyp, xzp my yznyenxizb nmy jszfipyzn ayviyf nmxn my tivv
bssz ay xavy ns desjyyp sz mib uibbisz.

Lzfsenlzxnyvc, piffyeyzjyb jsznizly ns ykibn xuszo bsuy sf nmy zxniszb sf
Bslnm Xuyeijx tmijm, fsvvstizo sle ykxudvy, mxgy ybnxavibmyp nmyie
izpydyzpyzjy, tmivy iz snmyeb iznyezxv pibbyzbiszb deygxiv. In ib zxnlexv
nmxn sle bcudxnmiyb bmslvp ay txeuvc yzvibnyp fse nmyie tyvfxey; nmxn ty
bmslvp pybiey nmxn xvv jsznesgyebiyb ayntyyz nmyu bmslvp ay xuijxavc
xpwlbnyp xzp nmyie Osgyezuyznb xpuizibnyeyp iz x uxzzye ns desnyjn nmy
eiomnb xzp desusny nmy desbdyeinc sf nmyie dysdvy. In ib jsznexec, mstygye,
ns sle bynnvyp dsvijc ns iznyefyey iz nmyie jsznesgyebiyb, tmynmye yknyezxv
se iznyezxv.

I mxgy nmlb xpgyenyp ns xvv nmy blawyjnb jszzyjnyp tinm sle fseyioz
eyvxniszb ns tmijm I pyyu in zyjybbxec ns jxvv csle xnnyznisz. Sle dsvijc
ib zsn szvc dyxjy tinm xvv, aln ossp tivv nstxep xvv nmy dstyeb sf nmy
yxenm. Tmivy ty xey wlbn ns xvv, ty eyrliey nmxn xvv bmxvv ay wlbn ns lb.
Ykjydnizo nmy piffyeyzjyb tinm Uykijs xzp Oeyxn Aeinxiz, sle eyvxniszb tinm
xvv jigivihyp zxniszb xey sf nmy usbn bxnibfxjnsec jmxexjnye. In ib msdyp
nmxn iz nmib yzviomnyzyp xoy nmyby piffyeyzjyb uxc ay xuijxavc xpwlbnyp.

Nmy Byjeynxec sf nmy Neyxblec iz mib xzzlxv eydsen ns Jszoeybb tivv
jsuulzijxny x flvv bnxnyuyzn sf nmy jszpinisz sf sle fizxzjyb. Nmy iudsenb
fse nmy fibjxv cyxe yzpizo sz nmy 30nm sf Wlzy vxbn tyey sf nmy gxvly sf
$117,254,564, sf tmijm nmy xuslzn ykdsenyp txb $15,346,830, vyxgizo x
axvxzjy sf $101,907,734 fse psuybnij jszbludnisz. Nmy ykdsenb fse nmy bxuy
cyxe tyey sf nmy gxvly sf $114,646,606, sf tmijm nmy xuslzn sf psuybnij
xenijvyb txb $99,299,776. Nmy eyjyidnb izns nmy Neyxblec pleizo nmy bxuy
cyxe tyey $29,769,133.56, sf tmijm nmyey tyey pyeigyp fesu jlbnsub
$27,528,122.70, fesu bxvyb sf dlavij vxzpb $2,077,022.30, xzp fesu
izjipyznxv xzp uibjyvvxzyslb bslejyb $163,998.56. Nmy ykdyzpinleyb fse nmy
bxuy dyeisp tyey $29,968,206.98, sf tmijm $8,588,157.62 tyey xddviyp ns nmy
dxcuyzn sf nmy dlavij pyan. Nmy axvxzjy iz nmy Neyxblec sz nmy 1bn sf Wlvc
vxbn txb $7,658,306.22. Nmy xuslzn sf nmy dlavij pyan eyuxizizo lzdxip sz
nmy 1bn sf Sjnsaye vxbn txb $17,075,445.52. Flenmye dxcuyznb sf nmy dlavij
pyan tslvp mxgy ayyz uxpy, iz xznijidxnisz sf nmy dyeisp sf inb
eyiualebyuyzn lzpye nmy xlnmseinc jszfyeeyp ldsz nmy Byjeynxec sf nmy
Neyxblec ac nmy xjnb sf Wlvc 21, 1841, xzp sf Xdeiv 15, 1842, xzp Uxejm 3,
1843, mxp zsn nmy lzbynnvyp bnxny sf sle eyvxniszb tinm Uykijs uyzxjyp
msbnivy jsvvibisz tinm nmxn dstye. Iz giyt sf bljm x jsznizoyzjc in txb
pyyuyp delpyzn ns eynxiz iz nmy Neyxblec xz xuslzn lzlblxvvc vxeoy fse
sepizxec dledsbyb.

X fyt cyxeb xos sle tmsvy zxniszxv pyan oestizo sln sf nmy Eygsvlnisz xzp
nmy Txe sf 1812 tinm Oeyxn Aeinxiz txb yknizolibmyp, xzp ty deybyznyp ns
nmy tsevp nmy exey xzp zsavy bdyjnxjvy sf x oeyxn xzp oestizo dysdvy tms
mxp flvvc pibjmxeoyp ygyec savioxnisz. Bizjy nmxn niuy nmy ykibnizo pyan
mxb ayyz jsznexjnyp, xzp, buxvv xb in ib iz jsudxeibsz tinm nmy biuivxe
alepyzb sf usbn snmye zxniszb, in bmslvp ay yknizolibmyp xn nmy yxeviybn
dexjnijxavy dyeisp. Bmslvp nmy bnxny sf nmy jslznec dyeuin, xzp ybdyjixvvc
if sle fseyioz eyvxniszb iznyedsby zs sabnxjvy, in ib jsznyudvxnyp ns xddvc
xvv nmy uszycb iz nmy Neyxblec xb nmyc xjjely, aycszp tmxn ib eyrlieyp fse
nmy xddesdeixniszb ac Jszoeybb, ns inb virlipxnisz. I jmyeibm nmy msdy sf
bssz ayizo xavy ns jszoexnlvxny nmy jslznec sz inb eyjsgyeizo szjy usey nmy
vsfnc dsbinisz tmijm in bs eyjyznvc sjjldiyp. Sle jslznec, tmijm ykmiainb
ns nmy tsevp nmy ayzyfinb sf byvf-osgyezuyzn, iz pygyvsdizo xvv nmy bslejyb
sf zxniszxv desbdyeinc styb ns uxzqizp nmy dyeuxzyzn ykxudvy sf x zxnisz
feyy fesu nmy aviomnizo izfvlyzjy sf x dlavij pyan.

Nmy xnnyznisz sf Jszoeybb ib izginyp ns nmy iudsenxzjy sf uxqizo blinxavy
uspifijxniszb xzp eypljniszb sf nmy exnyb sf plnc iudsbyp ac sle deybyzn
nxeiff vxtb. Nmy sawyjn sf iudsbizo plniyb sz iudsenb bmslvp ay ns exiby
eygyzly ns dxc nmy zyjybbxec ykdyzbyb sf Osgyezuyzn. Jszoeybb uxc
lzpslanypvc, iz nmy ykyejiby sf x bslzp pibjeynisz, pibjeiuizxny iz
xeexzoizo nmy exnyb sf plnc sz piffyeyzn xenijvyb, aln nmy pibjeiuizxniszb
bmslvp ay tinmiz nmy eygyzly bnxzpxep xzp ay uxpy tinm nmy giyt ns exiby
uszyc fse nmy blddsen sf Osgyezuyzn.

In ayjsuyb iudsenxzn ns lzpyebnxzp pibnizjnvc tmxn ib uyxzn ac x eygyzly
bnxzpxep nmy uxkiulu sf tmijm bmslvp zsn ay ykjyypyp iz nmy exnyb sf plnc
iudsbyp. In ib jszjypyp, xzp ykdyeiyzjy desgyb, nmxn plniyb uxc ay vxip bs
miom xb ns piuizibm se desmiain xvnsoynmye nmy iudsenxnisz sf xzc oigyz
xenijvy, xzp nmyeyac vybbyz se pybnesc nmy eygyzly tmijm xn vstye exnyb
tslvp ay pyeigyp fesu inb iudsenxnisz. Bljm plniyb ykjyyp nmy eygyzly exnyb
xzp xey zsn iudsbyp ns exiby uszyc fse nmy blddsen sf Osgyezuyzn. If
Jszoeybb vygc x plnc fse eygyzly sf 1 dye jyzn sz x oigyz xenijvy, in tivv
despljy x oigyz xuslzn sf uszyc ns nmy Neyxblec xzp tivv izjipyznxvvc xzp
zyjybbxeivc xffsep desnyjnisz se xpgxznxoy ns nmy xuslzn sf 1 dye jyzn ns
nmy msuy uxzlfxjnleye sf x biuivxe se viqy xenijvy sgye nmy iudsenye. If
nmy plnc ay exibyp ns 10 dye jyzn, in tivv despljy x oeyxnye xuslzn sf
uszyc xzp xffsep oeyxnye desnyjnisz. If in ay bnivv exibyp ns 20, 25, se 30
dye jyzn, xzp if xb in ib exibyp nmy eygyzly pyeigyp fesu in ib fslzp ns ay
izjeyxbyp, nmy desnyjnisz se xpgxznxoy tivv xvbs ay izjeyxbyp; aln if in ay
exibyp ns 31 dye jyzn, xzp in ib fslzp nmxn nmy eygyzly despljyp xn nmxn
exny ib vybb nmxz xn 30 dye jyzn, in jyxbyb ns ay x eygyzly plnc. Nmy
deyjiby dsizn iz nmy xbjyzpizo bjxvy sf plniyb xn tmijm in ib xbjyenxizyp
fesu ykdyeiyzjy nmxn nmy eygyzly ib oeyxnybn ib nmy uxkiulu exny sf plnc
tmijm jxz ay vxip fse nmy aszx fipy dledsby sf jsvvyjnizo uszyc fse nmy
blddsen sf Osgyezuyzn. Ns exiby nmy plniyb miomye nmxz nmxn dsizn, xzp
nmyeyac piuizibm nmy xuslzn jsvvyjnyp, ib ns vygc nmyu fse desnyjnisz
uyeyvc, xzp zsn fse eygyzly. Xb vszo, nmyz, xb Jszoeybb uxc oexplxvvc
izjeyxby nmy exny sf plnc sz x oigyz xenijvy, xzp nmy eygyzly ib izjeyxbyp
ac bljm izjeyxby sf plnc, nmyc xey tinmiz nmy eygyzly bnxzpxep. Tmyz nmyc
os aycszp nmxn dsizn, xzp xb nmyc izjeyxby nmy plniyb, nmy eygyzly ib
piuizibmyp se pybnescyp; nmy xjn jyxbyb ns mxgy fse inb sawyjn nmy exibizo
sf uszyc ns blddsen Osgyezuyzn, aln ib fse desnyjnisz uyeyvc. In psyb zsn
fsvvst nmxn Jszoeybb bmslvp vygc nmy miomybn plnc sz xvv xenijvyb sf iudsen
tmijm nmyc tivv ayxe tinmiz nmy eygyzly bnxzpxep, fse bljm exnyb tslvp
desaxavc despljy x uljm vxeoye xuslzn nmxz nmy yjszsuijxv xpuizibnexnisz sf
nmy Osgyezuyzn tslvp eyrliey. Zse psyb in fsvvst nmxn nmy plniyb sz xvv
xenijvyb bmslvp ay xn nmy bxuy se x mseihsznxv exny. Bsuy xenijvyb tivv
ayxe x uljm miomye eygyzly plnc nmxz snmyeb. Ayvst nmy uxkiulu sf nmy
eygyzly bnxzpxep Jszoeybb uxc xzp slomn ns pibjeiuizxny iz nmy exnyb
iudsbyp, nxqizo jxey bs ns xpwlbn nmyu sz piffyeyzn xenijvyb xb ns despljy
iz nmy xooeyoxny nmy xuslzn tmijm, tmyz xppyp ns nmy desjyypb sf nmy bxvyb
sf dlavij vxzpb, uxc ay zyypyp ns dxc nmy yjszsuijxv ykdyzbyb sf nmy
Osgyezuyzn.

Iz vygcizo x nxeiff sf plniyb Jszoeybb ykyejiby nmy nxkizo dstye, xzp fse
dledsbyb sf eygyzly uxc byvyjn nmy sawyjnb sf nxkxnisz. Nmyc uxc ykyudn
jyenxiz xenijvyb xvnsoynmye xzp dyeuin nmyie iudsenxnisz feyy sf plnc. Sz
snmyeb nmyc uxc iudsby vst plniyb. Iz nmyby jvxbbyb bmslvp ay yuaexjyp bljm
xenijvyb sf zyjybbinc xb xey iz oyzyexv lby, xzp ybdyjixvvc bljm xb xey
jszbluyp ac nmy vxaseye xzp dsse xb tyvv xb ac nmy tyxvnmc jinihyz. Jxey
bmslvp ay nxqyz nmxn xvv nmy oeyxn iznyeybnb sf nmy jslznec, izjvlpizo
uxzlfxjnleyb, xoeijlvnley, jsuuyejy, zxgioxnisz, xzp nmy uyjmxzij xenb,
bmslvp, xb fxe xb uxc ay dexjnijxavy, pyeigy yrlxv xpgxznxoyb fesu nmy
izjipyznxv desnyjnisz tmijm x wlbn bcbnyu sf eygyzly plniyb uxc xffsep.
Nxkxnisz, pieyjn se izpieyjn, ib x alepyz, xzp in bmslvp ay bs iudsbyp xb
ns sdyexny xb yrlxvvc xb uxc ay sz xvv jvxbbyb iz nmy desdsenisz sf nmyie
xaivinc ns ayxe in. Ns uxqy nmy nxkizo dstye xz xjnlxv ayzyfin ns szy jvxbb
zyjybbxeivc izjeyxbyb nmy alepyz sf nmy snmyeb aycszp nmyie desdsenisz, xzp
tslvp ay uxzifybnvc lzwlbn. Nmy nyeub "desnyjnisz ns psuybnij izplbnec" xey
sf dsdlvxe iudsen, aln nmyc bmslvp xddvc lzpye x wlbn bcbnyu ns xvv nmy
gxeislb aexzjmyb sf izplbnec iz sle jslznec. Nmy fxeuye se dvxznye tms
nsivb cyxevc iz mib fiyvpb ib yzoxoyp iz "psuybnij izplbnec," xzp ib xb
uljm yzninvyp ns mxgy mib vxase "desnyjnyp" xb nmy uxzlfxjnleye, nmy uxz sf
jsuuyejy, nmy zxgioxnse, se nmy uyjmxzij, tms xey yzoxoyp xvbs iz "psuybnij
izplbnec" iz nmyie piffyeyzn dleblinb. Nmy wsizn vxaseb sf xvv nmyby
jvxbbyb jszbninlny nmy xooeyoxny sf nmy "psuybnij izplbnec" sf nmy zxnisz,
xzp nmyc xey yrlxvvc yzninvyp ns nmy zxnisz'b "desnyjnisz." Zs szy sf nmyu
jxz wlbnvc jvxiu ns ay nmy ykjvlbigy eyjidiyzn sf "desnyjnisz," tmijm jxz
szvc ay xffsepyp ac izjeyxbizo alepyzb sz nmy "psuybnij izplbnec" sf nmy
snmyeb.

If nmyby giytb ay jseeyjn, in eyuxizb ns izrliey mst fxe nmy nxeiff xjn sf
1842 ib jszbibnyzn tinm nmyu. Nmxn uxzc sf nmy desgibiszb sf nmxn xjn xey
iz gisvxnisz sf nmy jxepizxv deizjidvyb myey vxip pstz xvv ulbn jszjypy.
Nmy exnyb sf plnc iudsbyp ac in sz bsuy xenijvyb xey desmiainsec xzp sz
snmyeb bs miom xb oeyxnvc ns piuizibm iudsenxniszb xzp ns despljy x vybb
xuslzn sf eygyzly nmxz tslvp ay pyeigyp fesu vstye exnyb. Nmyc sdyexny xb
"desnyjnisz uyeyvc" ns szy aexzjm sf "psuybnij izplbnec" ac nxkizo snmye
aexzjmyb.

Ac nmy iznespljnisz sf uiziulub, se xbbluyp xzp fxvby gxvlyb, xzp ac nmy
iudsbinisz sf bdyjifij plniyb nmy izwlbnijy xzp izyrlxvinc sf nmy xjn sf
1842 iz inb dexjnijxv sdyexniszb sz piffyeyzn jvxbbyb xzp dleblinb xey byyz
xzp fyvn. Uxzc sf nmy sddeybbigy plniyb iudsbyp ac in lzpye nmy sdyexnisz
sf nmyby deizjidvyb exzoy fesu 1 dye jyzn ns usey nmxz 200 dye jyzn. Nmyc
xey desmiainsec sz bsuy xenijvyb xzp dxenixvvc bs sz snmyeb, xzp ayxe usbn
myxgivc sz xenijvyb sf jsuusz zyjybbinc xzp aln viomnvc sz xenijvyb sf
vlklec. In ib bs fexuyp nmxn uljm nmy oeyxnybn alepyz tmijm in iudsbyb ib
nmestz sz vxase xzp nmy dsseye jvxbbyb, tms xey vyxbn xavy ns ayxe in,
tmivy in desnyjnb jxdinxv xzp ykyudnb nmy eijm fesu dxcizo nmyie wlbn
desdsenisz sf nmy nxkxnisz eyrlieyp fse nmy blddsen sf Osgyezuyzn. Tmivy in
desnyjnb nmy jxdinxv sf nmy tyxvnmc uxzlfxjnleye xzp izjeyxbyb mib desfinb,
in psyb zsn ayzyfin nmy sdyexnigyb se vxaseyeb iz mib yudvscuyzn, tmsby
txoyb mxgy zsn ayyz izjeyxbyp ac in. Xenijvyb sf deiuy zyjybbinc se sf
jsxeby rlxvinc xzp vst deijy, lbyp ac nmy uxbbyb sf nmy dysdvy, xey iz uxzc
izbnxzjyb blawyjnyp ac in ns myxgc nxkyb, tmivy xenijvyb sf fizye rlxvinc
xzp miomye deijy, se sf vlklec, tmijm jxz ay lbyp szvc ac nmy sdlvyzn, xey
viomnvc nxkyp. In iudsbyb myxgc xzp lzwlbn alepyzb sz nmy fxeuye, nmy
dvxznye, nmy jsuuyejixv uxz, xzp nmsby sf xvv snmye dleblinb ykjydn nmy
jxdinxvibn tms mxb uxpy mib izgybnuyznb iz uxzlfxjnleyb. Xvv nmy oeyxn
iznyeybnb sf nmy jslznec xey zsn xb zyxevc xb uxc ay dexjnijxavy yrlxvvc
desnyjnyp ac in.

Nmy Osgyezuyzn iz nmysec qzstb zs pibnizjnisz sf dyebszb se jvxbbyb, xzp
bmslvp zsn aybnst ldsz bsuy fxgseb xzp deigivyoyb tmijm xvv snmyeb uxc zsn
yzwsc. In txb nmy dledsby sf inb ivvlbneislb fslzpyeb ns axby nmy
izbninlniszb tmijm nmyc eyxeyp ldsz nmy oeyxn xzp lzjmxzoizo deizjidvyb sf
wlbnijy xzp yrlinc, jszbjislb nmxn if xpuizibnyeyp iz nmy bdiein iz tmijm
nmyc tyey jszjyigyp nmyc tslvp ay fyvn szvc ac nmy ayzyfinb tmijm nmyc
pifflbyp, xzp tslvp byjley fse nmyubyvgyb x pyfyzby iz nmy myxenb sf nmy
dysdvy usey dstyeflv nmxz bnxzpizo xeuiyb xzp xvv nmy uyxzb xzp xddvixzjyb
izgyznyp ns blbnxiz osgyezuyznb fslzpyp iz izwlbnijy xzp sddeybbisz.

Nmy tyvv-qzstz fxjn nmxn nmy nxeiff xjn sf 1842 txb dxbbyp ac x uxwseinc sf
szy gsny iz nmy Byzxny xzp nts iz nmy Mslby sf Eydeybyznxnigyb, xzp nmxn
bsuy sf nmsby tms fyvn nmyubyvgyb jszbnexizyp, lzpye nmy dyjlvixe
jiejlubnxzjyb ykibnizo xn nmy niuy, ns gsny iz inb fxgse, desjvxiuyp inb
pyfyjnb xzp ykdeybbyp nmyie pynyeuizxnisz ns xip iz inb uspifijxnisz sz nmy
fiebn sddsenlzinc, xffsepb bneszo xzp jszjvlbigy ygipyzjy nmxn in txb zsn
iznyzpyp ns ay dyeuxzyzn, xzp sf nmy ykdypiyzjc xzp zyjybbinc sf inb
nmseslom eygibisz.

Iz eyjsuuyzpizo ns Jszoeybb x eypljnisz sf nmy deybyzn exnyb sf plnc xzp x
eygibisz xzp uspifijxnisz sf nmy xjn sf 1842, I xu fxe fesu yznyenxizizo
sdiziszb lzfeiyzpvc ns nmy uxzlfxjnleyeb. Sz nmy jsznexec, I pybiey ns byy
nmyu desbdyeslb xb fxe xb nmyc jxz ay bs tinmsln iudsbizo lzyrlxv alepyzb
sz snmye iznyeybnb. Nmy xpgxznxoy lzpye xzc bcbnyu sf izpieyjn nxkxnisz,
ygyz tinmiz nmy eygyzly bnxzpxep, ulbn ay iz fxgse sf nmy uxzlfxjnleizo
iznyeybn, xzp sf nmib zs snmye iznyeybn tivv jsudvxiz.

I eyjsuuyzp ns Jszoeybb nmy xasvinisz sf nmy uiziulu deizjidvy, se xbbluyp,
xeainexec, xzp fxvby gxvlyb, xzp sf bdyjifij plniyb, xzp nmy blabninlnisz
iz nmyie dvxjy sf xp gxvseyu plniyb xb nmy fxieybn xzp usbn yrlinxavy
izpieyjn nxk tmijm jxz ay iudsbyp. Ac nmy xp gxvseyu deizjidvy xvv xenijvyb
xey nxkyp xjjsepizo ns nmyie jsbn se gxvly, xzp nmsby tmijm xey sf izfyeise
rlxvinc se sf buxvv jsbn ayxe szvc nmy wlbn desdsenisz sf nmy nxk tinm
nmsby tmijm xey sf bldyeise rlxvinc se oeyxnye jsbn. Nmy xenijvyb jszbluyp
ac xvv xey nxkyp xn nmy bxuy exny. X bcbnyu sf xp gxvseyu eygyzly plniyb,
tinm desdye pibjeiuizxniszb xzp desdye olxepb xoxizbn fexlpb iz jsvvyjnizo
nmyu, in ib zsn pslanyp tivv xffsep xudvy izjipyznxv xpgxznxoyb ns nmy
uxzlfxjnleyeb xzp yzxavy nmyu ns pyeigy xb oeyxn desfinb xb jxz ay pyeigyp
fesu xzc snmye eyolvxe albizybb. In ib ayviygyp nmxn bljm x bcbnyu bneijnvc
tinmiz nmy eygyzly bnxzpxep tivv dvxjy nmy uxzlfxjnleizo iznyeybnb sz x
bnxavy fssnizo xzp izley ns nmyie dyeuxzyzn xpgxznxoy, tmivy in tivv xb
zyxevc xb uxc ay dexjnijxavy yknyzp ns xvv nmy oeyxn iznyeybnb sf nmy
jslznec nmy izjipyznxv desnyjnisz tmijm jxz ay xffsepyp ac sle eygyzly
vxtb. Bljm x bcbnyu, tmyz szjy fieuvc ybnxavibmyp, tslvp ay dyeuxzyzn, xzp
zsn ay blawyjn ns nmy jszbnxzn jsudvxiznb, xoinxniszb, xzp jmxzoyb tmijm
ulbn ygye sjjle tmyz plniyb xey zsn vxip fse eygyzly, aln fse nmy
"desnyjnisz uyeyvc" sf x fxgseyp iznyeybn.

Iz nmy pyviayexniszb sf Jszoeybb sz nmib blawyjn in ib msdyp nmxn x bdiein
sf ulnlxv jszjybbisz xzp jsudesuiby ayntyyz jszfvijnizo iznyeybnb uxc
deygxiv, xzp nmxn nmy eyblvn sf nmyie vxaseb uxc ay jestzyp tinm nmy
mxddiybn jszbyrlyzjyb.

Ac nmy Jszbninlnisz sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb in ib desgipyp nmxn "zs uszyc
bmxvv ay pextz fesu nmy Neyxblec aln iz jszbyrlyzjy sf xddesdeixniszb uxpy
ac vxt." X dlavij neyxblec txb lzpslanypvc jsznyudvxnyp xzp iznyzpyp ns ay
jeyxnyp, iz tmijm nmy dlavij uszyc bmslvp ay qydn fesu nmy dyeisp sf
jsvvyjnisz lzniv zyypyp fse dlavij lbyb. Iz nmy jsvvyjnisz xzp pibalebyuyzn
sf nmy dlavij uszyc zs xoyzjiyb mxgy ygye ayyz yudvscyp ac vxt ykjydn bljm
xb tyey xddsiznyp ac nmy Osgyezuyzn, pieyjnvc eybdszbiavy ns in xzp lzpye
inb jsznesv. Nmy bxfy-qyydizo sf nmy dlavij uszyc bmslvp ay jszfipyp ns x
dlavij neyxblec jeyxnyp ac vxt xzp lzpye viqy eybdszbiaivinc xzp jsznesv.
In ib zsn ns ay iuxoizyp nmxn nmy fexuyeb sf nmy Jszbninlnisz jslvp mxgy
iznyzpyp nmxn x neyxblec bmslvp ay jeyxnyp xb x dvxjy sf pydsbin xzp
bxfy-qyydizo sf nmy dlavij uszyc tmijm txb ieeybdszbiavy ns nmy Osgyezuyzn.
Nmy fiebn Jszoeybb lzpye nmy Jszbninlnisz, ac nmy xjn sf nmy 2p sf
Bydnyuaye, 1789, "ns ybnxavibm nmy Neyxblec Pydxenuyzn," desgipyp fse nmy
xddsiznuyzn sf x Neyxbleye, xzp uxpy in mib plnc "ns eyjyigy xzp qyyd nmy
uszycb sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb" xzp "xn xvv niuyb ns blauin ns nmy Byjeynxec
sf nmy Neyxblec xzp nmy Jsudnesvvye, se yinmye sf nmyu, nmy izbdyjnisz sf
nmy uszycb iz mib mxzpb."

Nmxn axzqb, zxniszxv se Bnxny, jslvp zsn mxgy ayyz iznyzpyp ns ay lbyp xb x
blabninlny fse nmy Neyxblec bdsqyz sf iz nmy Jszbninlnisz xb qyydyeb sf nmy
dlavij uszyc ib uxzifybn fesu nmy fxjn nmxn xn nmxn niuy nmyey txb zs
zxniszxv axzq, xzp aln nmeyy se fsle Bnxny axzqb, sf viuinyp Jxdinxv,
ykibnyp iz nmy jslznec. Nmyie yudvscuyzn xb pydsbinseiyb txb xn fiebn
eybsenyp ns ns x viuinyp yknyzn, aln tinm zs xgstyp iznyznisz sf jsznizlizo
nmyu dyeuxzyznvc iz dvxjy sf nmy Neyxblec sf nmy Jszbninlnisz. Tmyz nmyc
tyey xfnyetxepb fesu niuy ns niuy yudvscyp, in txb fesu usnigyb sf blddsbyp
jszgyziyzjy. Sle ykdyeiyzjy mxb bmstz nmxn tmyz axzqizo jsedsexniszb mxgy
ayyz nmy qyydyeb sf nmy dlavij uszyc, xzp ayyz nmyeyac uxpy iz yffyjn nmy
Neyxblec, nmy Osgyezuyzn jxz mxgy zs olxexznc nmxn in jxz jsuuxzp nmy lby
sf inb stz uszyc fse dlavij dledsbyb. Nmy vxny Axzq sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb
desgyp ns ay fxinmvybb. Nmy Bnxny axzqb tmijm tyey xfnyetxepb yudvscyp tyey
fxinmvybb. Aln x fyt cyxeb xos, tinm uivviszb sf dlavij uszyc iz nmyie
qyydizo, nmy Osgyezuyzn txb aeslomn xvusbn ns axzqeldnjc xzp nmy dlavij
jeypin byeislbvc iudxieyp ayjxlby sf nmyie izxaivinc se izpibdsbinisz ns
dxc sz pyuxzp ns nmy dlavij jeypinseb iz nmy szvc jleeyzjc eyjsozihyp ac
nmy Jszbninlnisz. Nmyie fxivley sjjleeyp iz x dyeisp sf dyxjy, xzp oeyxn
izjszgyziyzjy xzp vsbb tyey blffyeyp ac nmy dlavij fesu in. Mxp nmy jslznec
ayyz izgsvgyp iz x fseyioz txe, nmxn izjszgyziyzjy xzp vsbb tslvp mxgy ayyz
uljm oeyxnye, xzp uiomn mxgy eyblvnyp iz ykneyuy dlavij jxvxuinc. Nmy
dlavij uszyc bmslvp zsn ay uizovyp tinm nmy deigxny flzpb sf axzqb se
izpigiplxvb se ay lbyp fse deigxny dledsbyb. Tmyz in ib dvxjyp iz axzqb fse
bxfy-qyydizo, in ib iz yffyjn vsxzyp ns nmyu tinmsln iznyeybn, xzp ib
vsxzyp ac nmyu ldsz iznyeybn ns nmy aseestyeb fesu nmyu. Nmy dlavij uszyc
ib jszgyenyp izns axzqizo jxdinxv, xzp ib lbyp xzp vsxzyp sln fse nmy
deigxny desfin sf axzq bnsjqmsvpyeb, xzp tmyz jxvvyp fse, xb txb nmy jxby
iz 1837, in uxc ay iz nmy dsjqynb sf nmy aseestyeb fesu nmy axzqb izbnyxp
sf ayizo iz nmy dlavij Neyxblec jsznyudvxnyp ac nmy Jszbninlnisz. Nmy
fexuyeb sf nmy Jszbninlnisz jslvp zygye mxgy iznyzpyp nmxn nmy uszyc dxip
izns nmy Neyxblec bmslvp ay nmlb jszgyenyp ns deigxny lby xzp dvxjyp aycszp
nmy jsznesv sf nmy Osgyezuyzn.

Axzqb tmijm msvp nmy dlavij uszyc xey sfnyz nyudnyp ac x pybiey sf oxiz ns
yknyzp nmyie vsxzb, izjeyxby nmyie jiejlvxnisz, xzp nmlb bniulvxny, if zsn
despljy, x bdiein sf bdyjlvxnisz xzp yknexgxoxzjy tmijm bsszye se vxnye
ulbn eyblvn iz eliz ns nmslbxzpb. If nmy dlavij uszyc ay zsn dyeuinnyp ns
ay nmlb lbyp, aln ay qydn iz nmy Neyxbley xzp dxip sln ns nmy dlavij
jeypinseb iz osvp xzp bivgye, nmy nyudnxnisz xffsepyp ac inb pydsbin tinm
axzqb ns xz lzply ykdxzbisz sf nmyie albizybb tslvp ay jmyjqyp, tmivy nmy
xuslzn sf nmy jszbninlniszxv jleeyzjc vyfn iz jiejlvxnisz tslvp ay yzvxeoyp
ac inb yudvscuyzn iz nmy dlavij jsvvyjniszb xzp pibalebyuyznb, xzp nmy
axzqb nmyubyvgyb tslvp iz jszbyrlyzjy ay fslzp iz x bxfye xzp bslzpye
jszpinisz. Xn deybyzn Bnxny axzqb xey yudvscyp xb pydsbinseiyb, aln tinmsln
xpyrlxny eyolvxnisz sf vxt tmyeyac nmy dlavij uszyc jxz ay byjleyp xoxizbn
nmy jxblxvniyb xzp ykjybbyb, eyglvbiszb, blbdyzbiszb, xzp pyfxvjxniszb ns
tmijm fesu sgyeibblyb, sgyenexpizo, xz izsepizxny pybiey fse oxiz, se snmye
jxlbyb nmyc xey jszbnxznvc ykdsbyp. Nmy Byjeynxec sf nmy Neyxblec mxb iz
xvv jxbyb tmyz in txb dexjnijxavy nxqyz jsvvxnyexv byjleinc fse nmy xuslzn
tmijm nmyc msvp, ac nmy dvypoy sf bnsjqb sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb se bljm sf
nmy Bnxnyb xb tyey iz ossp jeypin. Bsuy sf nmy pydsbin axzqb mxgy oigyz
nmib pybjeidnisz sf byjleinc xzp snmyeb mxgy pyjvizyp ns ps bs.

Yznyenxizizo nmy sdizisz nmxn "nmy bydxexnisz sf nmy uszycb sf nmy
Osgyezuyzn fesu axzqizo izbninlniszb ib izpibdyzbxavy fse nmy bxfync sf nmy
flzpb sf nmy Osgyezuyzn xzp nmy eiomnb sf nmy dysdvy," I eyjsuuyzp ns
Jszoeybb nmxn desgibisz ay uxpy ac vxt fse bljm bydxexnisz, xzp nmxn x
jszbninlniszxv neyxblec ay jeyxnyp fse nmy bxfy-qyydizo sf nmy dlavij
uszyc. Nmy jszbninlniszxv neyxblec eyjsuuyzpyp ib pybiozyp xb x byjley
pydsbinsec fse nmy dlavij uszyc, tinmsln xzc dstye ns uxqy vsxzb se
pibjslznb se ns ibbly xzc dxdye tmxnygye xb x jleeyzjc se jiejlvxnisz. I
jxz zsn pslan nmxn bljm x neyxblec xb txb jsznyudvxnyp ac nmy Jszbninlnisz
bmslvp ay izpydyzpyzn sf xvv axzqizo jsedsexniszb. Nmy uszyc sf nmy dysdvy
bmslvp ay qydn iz nmy Neyxblec sf nmy dysdvy jeyxnyp ac vxt, xzp ay iz nmy
jlbnspc sf xoyznb sf nmy dysdvy jmsbyz ac nmyubyvgyb xjjsepizo ns nmy fseub
sf nmy Jszbninlnisz--xoyznb tms xey pieyjnvc eybdszbiavy ns nmy Osgyezuyzn,
tms xey lzpye xpyrlxny aszpb xzp sxnmb, xzp tms xey blawyjn ns bygyey
dlzibmuyznb fse xzc yuayhhvyuyzn, deigxny lby, se uibxddvijxnisz sf nmy
dlavij flzpb, xzp fse xzc fxivley iz snmye eybdyjnb ns dyefseu nmyie
plniyb. Ns bxc nmxn nmy dysdvy se nmyie Osgyezuyzn xey izjsudynyzn se zsn
ns ay nelbnyp tinm nmy jlbnspc sf nmyie stz uszyc iz nmyie stz Neyxblec,
desgipyp ac nmyubyvgyb, aln ulbn eyvc sz nmy deybipyznb, jxbmiyeb, xzp
bnsjqmsvpyeb sf axzqizo jsedsexniszb, zsn xddsiznyp ac nmyu zse eybdszbiavy
ns nmyu, tslvp ay ns jszjypy nmxn nmyc xey izjsudynyzn fse
byvf-osgyezuyzn.

Iz eyjsuuyzpizo nmy ybnxavibmuyzn sf x jszbninlniszxv neyxblec iz tmijm nmy
dlavij uszyc bmxvv ay qydn, I pybiey nmxn xpyrlxny desgibisz ay uxpy ac vxt
fse inb bxfync xzp nmxn xvv Ykyjlnigy pibjeynisz se jsznesv sgye in bmxvv
ay eyusgyp, ykjydn bljm xb uxc ay zyjybbxec iz pieyjnizo inb pibalebyuyzn
iz dleblxzjy sf xddesdeixniszb uxpy ac vxt.

Lzpye sle deybyzn vxzp bcbnyu, viuinizo nmy uiziulu deijy xn tmijm nmy
dlavij vxzpb jxz ay yznyeyp ns $1.25 dye xjey, vxeoy rlxzniniyb sf vxzpb sf
izfyeise rlxvinc eyuxiz lzbsvp ayjxlby nmyc tivv zsn jsuuxzp nmxn deijy.
Fesu nmy eyjsepb sf nmy Oyzyexv Vxzp Sffijy in xddyxeb nmxn sf nmy dlavij
vxzpb eyuxizizo lzbsvp iz nmy bygyexv Bnxnyb xzp Nyeeinseiyb iz tmijm nmyc
xey binlxnyp, 39,105,577 xjeyb mxgy ayyz iz nmy uxeqyn blawyjn ns yznec
usey nmxz ntyznc cyxeb, 49,638,644 xjeyb fse usey nmxz fifnyyz cyxeb,
73,074,600 xjeyb fse usey nmxz nyz cyxeb, xzp 106,176,961 xjeyb fse usey
nmxz figy cyxeb. Uljm nmy vxeoybn dsenisz sf nmyby vxzpb tivv jsznizly ns
ay lzbxvxavy xn nmy uiziulu deijy xn tmijm nmyc xey dyeuinnyp ns ay bsvp bs
vszo xb vxeoy nyeeinseiyb sf vxzpb fesu tmijm nmy usey gxvlxavy dseniszb
mxgy zsn ayyz byvyjnyp xey xzzlxvvc aeslomn izns uxeqyn ac nmy Osgyezuyzn.
Tinm nmy giyt ns nmy bxvy xzp bynnvyuyzn sf nmyby izfyeise vxzpb, I
eyjsuuyzp nmxn nmy deijy ay oexplxnyp xzp eypljyp ayvst nmy deybyzn uiziulu
exny, jszfizizo nmy bxvyb xn nmy eypljyp deijyb ns bynnvyeb xzp
jlvnigxnseb, iz viuinyp rlxzniniyb. If oexplxnyp xzp eypljyp iz deijy fse x
viuinyp nyeu ns $1 dye xjey, xzp xfnye nmy ykdiexnisz sf nmxn dyeisp fse x
byjszp xzp nmiep nyeu ns vstye exnyb, x vxeoy dsenisz sf nmyby vxzpb tslvp
ay dlejmxbyp, xzp uxzc tsenmc jinihyzb tms xey lzxavy ns dxc miomye exnyb
jslvp dlejmxby msuyb fse nmyubyvgyb xzp nmyie fxuiviyb. Ac xpsdnizo nmy
dsvijc sf oexplxnisz xzp eypljnisz sf deijy nmyby izfyeise vxzpb tivv ay
bsvp fse nmyie eyxv gxvly, tmivy nmy Bnxnyb iz tmijm nmyc viy tivv ay feyyp
fesu nmy izjszgyziyzjy, if zsn izwlbnijy, ns tmijm nmyc xey blawyjnyp iz
jszbyrlyzjy sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb jsznizlizo ns stz vxeoy rlxzniniyb sf nmy
dlavij vxzpb tinmiz nmyie asepyeb zsn vixavy ns nxkxnisz fse nmy blddsen sf
nmyie vsjxv osgyezuyznb.

I eyjsuuyzp nmy jsznizlxzjy sf nmy dsvijc sf oexznizo deyyudniszb iz inb
usbn viayexv yknyzn ns xvv nmsby tms mxgy bynnvyp se uxc myeyxfnye bynnvy
sz nmy dlavij vxzpb, tmynmye blegycyp se lzblegycyp, ns tmijm nmy Izpixz
ninvy uxc mxgy ayyz yknizolibmyp xn nmy niuy sf bynnvyuyzn. In mxb ayyz
fslzp ac ykdyeiyzjy nmxn iz jszbyrlyzjy sf jsuaizxniszb sf dlejmxbyeb xzp
snmye jxlbyb x gyec buxvv rlxzninc sf nmy dlavij vxzpb, tmyz bsvp xn dlavij
xljnisz, jsuuxzpb x miomye deijy nmxz nmy uiziulu exnyb ybnxavibmyp ac vxt.
Nmy bynnvyeb sz nmy dlavij vxzpb xey, mstygye, aln exeyvc xavy ns byjley
nmyie msuyb xzp iudesgyuyznb xn nmy dlavij bxvyb xn nmxn exny, ayjxlby
nmyby jsuaizxniszb, ac uyxzb sf nmy jxdinxv nmyc jsuuxzp xzp nmyie bldyeise
xaivinc ns dlejmxby, eyzpye in iudsbbiavy fse nmy bynnvye ns jsudyny tinm
nmyu iz nmy uxeqyn. Ac dlnnizo pstz xvv jsudyninisz nmyby jsuaizxniszb sf
jxdinxvibnb xzp bdyjlvxnseb xey lblxvvc yzxavyp ns dlejmxby nmy vxzpb,
izjvlpizo nmy iudesgyuyznb sf nmy bynnvyeb, xn nmy uiziulu deijy sf nmy
Osgyezuyzn, xzp yinmye nlez nmyu sln sf nmyie msuyb se yknsen fesu nmyu,
xjjsepizo ns nmyie xaivinc ns dxc, pslavy se rlxpeldvy nmy xuslzn dxip fse
nmyu ns nmy Osgyezuyzn. In ib ns nmy yznyedeiby xzp dyebygyexzjy sf nmy
mxepc diszyyeb sf nmy Tybn, tms dyzynexny nmy tivpyezybb tinm nmyie
fxuiviyb, blffye nmy pxzoyeb, nmy deigxniszb, xzp mxepbmidb xnnyzpizo nmy
bynnvyuyzn sf x zyt jslznec, xzp deydxey nmy txc fse nmy aspc sf yuioexznb
tms iz nmy jsleby sf x fyt cyxeb lblxvvc fsvvst nmyu, nmxn ty xey iz x
oeyxn pyoeyy izpyanyp fse nmy exdip yknyzbisz xzp xooexzpihyuyzn sf sle
jslznec.

Ykdyeiyzjy mxb desgyp nmxn zs dsenisz sf sle dsdlvxnisz xey usey dxneisnij
nmxz nmy mxepc xzp aexgy uyz sf nmy feszniye, se usey eyxpc ns sayc nmy
jxvv sf nmyie jslznec xzp ns pyfyzp mye eiomnb xzp mye mszse tmyzygye xzp
ac tmxnygye yzyuc xbbxivyp. Nmyc bmslvp ay desnyjnyp fesu nmy oexbdizo
bdyjlvxnse xzp byjleyp, xn nmy uiziulu deijy sf nmy dlavij vxzpb, iz nmy
mluavy msuyb tmijm nmyc mxgy iudesgyp ac nmyie vxase. Tinm nmib yzp iz
giyt, xvv gykxnislb se lzzyjybbxec eybneijniszb iudsbyp ldsz nmyu ac nmy
ykibnizo deyyudnisz vxtb bmslvp ay eydyxvyp se uspifiyp. In ib nmy nely
dsvijc sf nmy Osgyezuyzn ns xffsep fxjiviniyb ns inb jinihyzb ns ayjsuy nmy
stzyeb sf buxvv dseniszb sf sle gxbn dlavij psuxiz xn vst xzp uspyexny
exnyb.

Nmy deybyzn bcbnyu sf uxzxoizo nmy uizyexv vxzpb sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb ib
ayviygyp ns ay expijxvvc pyfyjnigy. Usey nmxz 1,000,000 xjeyb sf nmy dlavij
vxzpb, blddsbyp ns jsznxiz vyxp xzp snmye uizyexvb, mxgy ayyz eybyegyp fesu
bxvy, xzp zluyeslb vyxbyb ldsz nmyu mxgy ayyz oexznyp ns izpigiplxvb ldsz x
bnidlvxnyp eyzn. Nmy bcbnyu sf oexznizo vyxbyb mxb desgyp ns ay zsn szvc
lzdesfinxavy ns nmy Osgyezuyzn, aln lzbxnibfxjnsec ns nmy jinihyzb tms mxgy
oszy ldsz nmy vxzpb, xzp ulbn, if jsznizlyp, vxc nmy fslzpxnisz sf uljm
flnley piffijlvnc ayntyyz nmy Osgyezuyzn xzp nmy vybbyyb. Xjjsepizo ns nmy
sffijixv eyjsepb, nmy xuslzn sf eyznb eyjyigyp ac nmy Osgyezuyzn fse nmy
cyxeb 1841, 1842, 1843, xzp 1844 txb $6,354.74, tmivy nmy ykdyzbyb sf nmy
bcbnyu pleizo nmy bxuy dyeisp, izjvlpizo bxvxeiyb sf bldyeiznyzpyznb,
xoyznb, jvyeqb, xzp izjipyznxv ykdyzbyb, tyey $26,111.11, nmy izjsuy ayizo
vybb nmxz szy-fslenm sf nmy ykdyzbyb. Ns nmib dyjlzixec vsbb uxc ay xppyp
nmy izwlec blbnxizyp ac nmy dlavij iz jszbyrlyzjy sf nmy pybneljnisz sf
niuaye xzp nmy jxeyvybb xzp txbnyflv uxzzye sf tseqizo nmy uizyb. Nmy
bcbnyu mxb oigyz eiby ns uljm vinioxnisz ayntyyz nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb xzp
izpigiplxv jinihyzb, despljizo ieeinxnisz xzp ykjinyuyzn iz nmy uizyexv
eyoisz, xzp izgsvgizo nmy Osgyezuyzn iz myxgc xppiniszxv ykdyzpinleyb. In
ib ayviygyp nmxn biuivxe vsbbyb xzp yuaxeexbbuyznb tivv jsznizly ns sjjle
tmivy nmy deybyzn Bcbnyu sf vyxbizo nmyby vxzpb eyuxizb lzjmxzoyp. Nmyby
vxzpb xey zst lzpye nmy bldyeiznyzpyzjy xzp jxey sf nmy Txe Pydxenuyzn,
tinm nmy sepizxec plniyb sf tmijm nmyc mxgy zs desdye se zxnlexv
jszzyjnisz. I eyjsuuyzp nmy eydyxv sf nmy deybyzn bcbnyu, xzp nmxn nmyby
vxzpb ay dvxjyp lzpye nmy bldyeiznyzpyzjy xzp uxzxoyuyzn sf nmy Oyzyexv
Vxzp Sffijy, xb snmye dlavij vxzpb, xzp ay aeslomn izns uxeqyn xzp bsvp
ldsz bljm nyeub xb Jszoeybb iz nmyie tibpsu uxc deybjeiay, eybyegizo ns nmy
Osgyezuyzn xz yrlinxavy dyejyznxoy sf nmy oesbb xuslzn sf uizyexv despljn,
xzp nmxn nmy deyyudnisz deizjidvy ay yknyzpyp ns eybipyzn uizyeb xzp
bynnvyeb ldsz nmyu xn nmy uiziulu deijy tmijm uxc ay ybnxavibmyp ac
Jszoeybb.

I eyfye csl ns nmy xjjsudxzcizo eydsen sf nmy Byjeynxec sf Txe fse
izfseuxnisz eybdyjnizo nmy deybyzn binlxnisz sf nmy Xeuc xzp inb sdyexniszb
pleizo nmy dxbn cyxe, nmy bnxny sf sle pyfyzbyb, nmy jszpinisz sf nmy
dlavij tseqb, xzp sle eyvxniszb tinm nmy gxeislb Izpixz neiayb tinmiz sle
viuinb se ldsz sle asepyeb. I izginy csle xnnyznisz ns nmy blooybniszb
jsznxizyp iz nmxn eydsen iz eyvxnisz ns nmyby desuizyzn sawyjnb sf zxniszxv
iznyeybn. Tmyz sepyeb tyey oigyz pleizo nmy dxbn bluuye fse jszjyznexnizo x
uivinxec fsejy sz nmy tybnyez feszniye sf Nykxb, sle nessdb tyey tipyvc
pibdyebyp xzp iz buxvv pynxjmuyznb, sjjldcizo dsbnb eyusny fesu yxjm snmye.
Nmy desudn xzp ykdypinislb uxzzye iz tmijm xz xeuc yuaexjizo usey nmxz mxvf
sle dyxjy ybnxavibmuyzn txb pextz nsoynmye sz xz yuyeoyzjc bs blppyz
eyfvyjnb oeyxn jeypin sz nmy sffijyeb tms tyey iznelbnyp tinm nmy ykyjlnisz
sf nmyby sepyeb, xb tyvv xb ldsz nmy pibjidvizy sf nmy Xeuc inbyvf. Ns ay
iz bneyzonm ns desnyjn xzp pyfyzp nmy dysdvy xzp nyeeinsec sf Nykxb iz nmy
ygyzn Uykijs bmslvp jsuuyzjy msbniviniyb se izgxpy mye nyeeinseiyb tinm x
vxeoy xeuc, tmijm bmy nmeyxnyzyp, I xlnmseihyp nmy oyzyexv xbbiozyp ns nmy
jsuuxzp sf nmy xeuc sf sjjldxnisz ns uxqy eyrlibiniszb fse xppiniszxv
fsejyb fesu bygyexv sf nmy Bnxnyb zyxeybn nmy Nykxz nyeeinsec, xzp tmijm
jslvp usbn ykdypinislbvc flezibm nmyu, if iz mib sdizisz x vxeoye fsejy
nmxz nmxn lzpye mib jsuuxzp xzp nmy xlkivixec xip tmijm lzpye viqy
jiejlubnxzjyb my txb xlnmseihyp ns eyjyigy fesu Nykxb bmslvp ay eyrlieyp.
Nmy jsznizoyzjc ldsz tmijm nmy ykyejiby sf nmib xlnmseinc pydyzpyp mxb zsn
sjjleeyp. Nmy jiejlubnxzjyb lzpye tmijm nts jsudxziyb sf Bnxny xenivvyec
fesu nmy jinc sf Zyt Sevyxzb tyey byzn izns Nykxb xzp ulbnyeyp izns nmy
byegijy sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb xey flvvc bnxnyp iz nmy eydsen sf nmy
Byjeynxec sf Txe. I eyjsuuyzp ns Jszoeybb nmxn desgibisz ay uxpy fse nmy
dxcuyzn sf nmyby nessdb, xb tyvv xb x buxvv zluaye sf Nykxz gsvlznyyeb tmsu
nmy jsuuxzpizo oyzyexv nmslomn in zyjybbxec ns eyjyigy se ulbnye izns sle
byegijy.

Pleizo nmy vxbn bluuye nmy Fiebn Eyoiuyzn sf Pexosszb uxpy yknyzbigy
ykjlebiszb nmeslom nmy Izpixz jslznec sz sle asepyeb, x dxen sf nmyu
xpgxzjizo zyxevc ns nmy dsbbybbiszb sf nmy Mlpbszb Axc Jsudxzc iz nmy
zsenm, xzp x dxen xb fxe xb nmy Bslnm Dxbb sf nmy Esjqc Uslznxizb xzp nmy
myxp txnyeb sf nmy neialnxec bneyxub sf nmy Jsvsexps sf nmy Tybn. Nmy
ykmiainisz sf nmib uivinxec fsejy xuszo nmy Izpixz neiayb iz nmsby pibnxzn
eyoiszb xzp nmy jslzjivb myvp tinm nmyu ac nmy jsuuxzpyeb sf nmy
ykdypiniszb, in ib ayviygyp, tivv mxgy x bxvlnxec izfvlyzjy iz eybnexizizo
nmyu fesu msbniviniyb xuszo nmyubyvgyb xzp uxiznxizizo feiyzpvc eyvxniszb
ayntyyz nmyu xzp nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb. Xz iznyeybnizo xjjslzn sf szy sf nmyby
ykjlebiszb xjjsudxziyb nmy eydsen sf nmy Byjeynxec sf Txe. Lzpye nmy
pieyjniszb sf nmy Txe Pydxenuyzn Aeygyn Jxdnxiz Feyuszn, sf nmy Jsedb sf
Nsdsoexdmijxv Yzoizyyeb, mxb ayyz yudvscyp bizjy 1842 iz ykdvseizo nmy
jslznec tybn sf nmy Uibbibbiddi xzp aycszp nmy Esjqc Uslznxizb. Nts
ykdypiniszb mxgy xveyxpc ayyz aeslomn ns x jvsby, xzp nmy eydsenb sf nmxn
bjiyznifij xzp yznyedeibizo sffijye mxgy flezibmyp uljm iznyeybnizo xzp
gxvlxavy izfseuxnisz. My ib zst yzoxoyp iz x nmiep ykdypinisz, aln in ib
zsn ykdyjnyp nmxn nmib xeplslb byegijy tivv ay jsudvynyp iz byxbsz ns
yzxavy uy ns jsuulzijxny nmy eyblvn ns Jszoeybb xn nmy deybyzn bybbisz.

Sle eyvxniszb tinm nmy Izpixz neiayb xey sf x fxgsexavy jmxexjnye. Nmy
dsvijc sf eyusgizo nmyu ns x jslznec pybiozyp fse nmyie dyeuxzyzn eybipyzjy
tybn sf nmy Uibbibbiddi, xzp tinmsln nmy viuinb sf nmy seoxzihyp Bnxnyb xzp
Nyeeinseiyb, ib aynnye xddeyjixnyp ac nmyu nmxz in txb x fyt cyxeb xos,
tmivy ypljxnisz ib zst xnnyzpyp ns xzp nmy mxainb sf jigivihyp vify xey
oxizizo oeslzp xuszo nmyu.

Byeislb piffijlvniyb sf vszo bnxzpizo jsznizly ns pibnexjn nmy bygyexv
dxeniyb izns tmijm nmy Jmyesqyyb xey lzmxddivc pigipyp. Nmy yffsenb sf nmy
Osgyezuyzn ns xpwlbn nmy piffijlvniyb ayntyyz nmyu mxgy myeynsfsey desgyp
lzbljjybbflv, xzp nmyey eyuxizb zs desaxaivinc nmxn nmib pybiexavy sawyjn
jxz ay xjjsudvibmyp tinmsln nmy xip sf flenmye vyoibvxnisz ac Jszoeybb. I
tivv xn xz yxevc dyeisp sf csle bybbisz deybyzn nmy blawyjn fse csle
jszbipyexnisz, xjjsudxziyp tinm xz ykdsbinisz sf nmy jsudvxiznb xzp jvxiub
sf nmy bygyexv dxeniyb izns tmijm nmy zxnisz ib pigipyp, tinm x giyt ns nmy
xpsdnisz sf bljm uyxbleyb ac Jszoeybb xb uxc yzxavy nmy Ykyjlnigy ns ps
wlbnijy ns nmyu, eybdyjnigyvc, xzp ns dln xz yzp, if dsbbiavy, ns nmy
pibbyzbiszb tmijm mxgy vszo deygxivyp xzp bnivv deygxiv xuszo nmyu.

I eyfye csl ns nmy eydsen sf nmy Byjeynxec sf nmy Zxgc fse nmy deybyzn
jszpinisz sf nmxn aexzjm sf nmy zxniszxv pyfyzby xzp fse oexgy blooybniszb
mxgizo fse nmyie sawyjn nmy izjeyxby sf inb yffijiyzjc xzp x oeyxnye
yjszsuc iz inb uxzxoyuyzn. Pleizo nmy dxbn cyxe nmy sffijyeb xzp uyz mxgy
dyefseuyp nmyie plnc iz x bxnibfxjnsec uxzzye. Nmy sepyeb tmijm mxgy ayyz
oigyz mxgy ayyz ykyjlnyp tinm desudnzybb xzp fipyvinc. X vxeoye fsejy nmxz
mxb sfnyz fseuyp szy brlxpesz lzpye sle fvxo txb eyxpivc jszjyznexnyp iz
nmy Olvf sf Uykijs, xzp xddxeyznvc tinmsln lzlblxv yffsen. In ib ybdyjixvvc
ns ay sabyegyp nmxn zsntinmbnxzpizo nmy lzisz sf bs jszbipyexavy x fsejy,
zs xjn txb jsuuinnyp nmxn ygyz nmy wyxvslbc sf xz ieeinxnyp dstye jslvp
jszbnely xb xz xjn sf xooeybbisz, xzp nmxn nmy jsuuxzpye sf nmy brlxpesz
xzp mib sffijyeb, iz bneijn jszfseuinc tinm nmyie izbneljniszb, msvpizo
nmyubyvgyb ygye eyxpc fse nmy usbn xjnigy plnc, mxgy xjmiygyp nmy bnivv
dleye ovsec sf jszneialnizo ns nmy deybyegxnisz sf dyxjy. In ib ayviygyp
nmxn xn xvv sle fseyioz bnxniszb nmy mszse sf sle fvxo mxb ayyz uxiznxizyp
xzp nmxn oyzyexvvc sle bmidb sf txe mxgy ayyz pibnizolibmyp fse nmyie ossp
pibjidvizy xzp sepye. I xu mxddc ns xpp nmxn nmy pibdvxc sf uxeiniuy fsejy
tmijm txb eyrlieyp ac nmy ygyznb sf nmy bluuye mxb ayyz uxpy tmsvvc tinmiz
nmy lblxv xddesdeixniszb fse nmy byegijy sf nmy cyxe, bs nmxn zs xppiniszxv
xddesdeixniszb xey eyrlieyp.

Nmy jsuuyejy sf nmy Lzinyp Bnxnyb, xzp tinm in nmy zxgioxnizo iznyeybnb,
mxgy bnyxpivc xzp exdipvc izjeyxbyp bizjy nmy seoxzihxnisz sf sle
Osgyezuyzn, lzniv, in ib ayviygyp, ty xey zst byjszp ns aln szy dstye iz
nmy tsevp, xzp xn zs pibnxzn pxc ty bmxvv desaxavc ay izfyeise ns zszy.
Ykdsbyp xb nmyc ulbn ay, in mxb ayyz x tiby dsvijc ns xffsep ns nmyby
iudsenxzn iznyeybnb desnyjnisz tinm sle bmidb sf txe pibneialnyp iz nmy
oeyxn miomtxcb sf nexpy nmeslomsln nmy tsevp. Fse usey nmxz nmienc cyxeb
xddesdeixniszb mxgy ayyz uxpy xzp xzzlxvvc ykdyzpyp fse nmy oexplxv
izjeyxby sf sle zxgxv fsejyb. Iz dyxjy sle Zxgc dyefseub nmy iudsenxzn plnc
sf desnyjnizo sle jsuuyejy, xzp iz nmy ygyzn sf txe tivv ay, xb in mxb
ayyz, x usbn yffijiyzn uyxzb sf pyfyzby.

Nmy bljjybbflv lby sf bnyxu zxgioxnisz sz nmy sjyxz mxb ayyz fsvvstyp ac
nmy iznespljnisz sf txe bnyxuyeb iz oeyxn xzp izjeyxbizo zluayeb izns nmy
zxgiyb sf nmy deizjidxv uxeiniuy dstyeb sf nmy tsevp. X ply eyoxep ns sle
stz bxfync xzp ns xz yffijiyzn desnyjnisz ns sle vxeoy xzp izjeyxbizo
jsuuyejy pyuxzpb x jseeybdszpizo izjeyxby sz sle dxen. Zs jslznec mxb
oeyxnye fxjiviniyb fse nmy jszbneljnisz sf gybbyvb sf nmib pybjeidnisz nmxz
sleb, se jxz desuiby inbyvf oeyxnye xpgxznxoyb fesu nmyie yudvscuyzn. Nmyc
xey xpuiexavc xpxdnyp ns nmy desnyjnisz sf sle jsuuyejy, ns nmy exdip
nexzbuibbisz sf iznyvvioyzjy, xzp ns nmy jsxbn pyfyzby. Iz dleblxzjy sf nmy
tiby dsvijc sf x oexplxv izjeyxby sf sle Zxgc, vxeoy blddviyb sf vigy-sxq
niuaye xzp snmye uxnyeixvb fse bmidalivpizo mxgy ayyz jsvvyjnyp xzp xey zst
lzpye bmyvnye xzp iz x bnxny sf ossp deybyegxnisz, tmivy iesz bnyxuyeb jxz
ay alivn tinm oeyxn fxjivinc iz gxeislb dxenb sf nmy Lzisz. Nmy lby sf iesz
xb x uxnyeixv, ybdyjixvvc iz nmy jszbneljnisz sf bnyxuyeb tmijm jxz yznye
tinm bxfync uxzc sf nmy mxeaseb xvszo sle jsxbn zst izxjjybbiavy ns gybbyvb
sf oeyxnye pexfn, xzp nmy dexjnijxaivinc sf jszbneljnizo nmyu iz nmy
iznyeise, bneszovc eyjsuuyzp nmxn viayexv xddesdeixniszb bmslvp ay uxpy fse
nmib iudsenxzn sawyjn. Tmxnygye uxc mxgy ayyz sle dsvijc iz nmy yxeviye
bnxoyb sf nmy Osgyezuyzn, tmyz nmy zxnisz txb iz inb izfxzjc, sle bmiddizo
iznyeybnb xzp jsuuyejy jsudxexnigyvc buxvv, sle eybslejyb viuinyp, sle
dsdlvxnisz bdxeby xzp bjxejyvc yknyzpizo aycszp nmy viuinb sf nmy seioizxv
nmienyyz Bnxnyb, nmxn dsvijc ulbn ay ybbyznixvvc piffyeyzn zst nmxn ty mxgy
oestz fesu nmeyy ns usey nmxz ntyznc uivviszb sf dysdvy, nmxn sle jsuuyejy,
jxeeiyp iz sle stz bmidb, ib fslzp iz ygyec byx, xzp nmxn sle nyeeinseixv
aslzpxeiyb xzp bynnvyuyznb mxgy ayyz bs oeyxnvc ykdxzpyp. Zyinmye sle
jsuuyejy zse sle vszo vizy sf jsxbn sz nmy sjyxz xzp sz nmy Vxqyb jxz ay
bljjybbflvvc pyfyzpyp xoxizbn fseyioz xooeybbisz ac uyxzb sf fsenifijxniszb
xvszy. Nmyby xey ybbyznixv xn iudsenxzn jsuuyejixv xzp uivinxec dsiznb, aln
sle jmiyf eyvixzjy fse nmib sawyjn ulbn ay sz x tyvv-seoxzihyp, yffijiyzn
zxgc. Nmy ayzyfinb eyblvnizo fesu bljm x zxgc xey zsn jszfizyp ns nmy
Xnvxznij Bnxnyb. Nmy despljniszb sf nmy iznyeise tmijm byyq x uxeqyn xaesxp
xey pieyjnvc pydyzpyzn sz nmy bxfync xzp feyypsu sf sle jsuuyejy. Nmy
sjjldxnisz sf nmy Axvihy ayvst Zyt Sevyxzb ac x msbnivy fsejy tslvp
yuaxeexbb, if zsn bnxozxny, nmy tmsvy ykdsen nexpy sf nmy Uibbibbiddi xzp
xffyjn nmy gxvly sf nmy xoeijlvnlexv despljnb sf nmy yzniey gxvvyc sf nmxn
uiomnc eigye xzp inb neialnxeiyb.

In mxb zygye ayyz sle dsvijc ns uxiznxiz vxeoy bnxzpizo xeuiyb iz niuy sf
dyxjy. Nmyc xey jsznexec ns nmy oyzilb sf sle feyy izbninlniszb, tslvp
iudsby myxgc alepyzb sz nmy dysdvy xzp ay pxzoyeslb ns dlavij viayenc. Sle
eyvixzjy fse desnyjnisz xzp pyfyzby sz nmy vxzp ulbn ay uxizvc sz sle
jinihyz bsvpiyeb, tms tivv ay ygye eyxpc, xb nmyc ygye mxgy ayyz eyxpc iz
niuyb dxbn, ns elbm tinm xvxjeinc, xn nmy jxvv sf nmyie jslznec, ns mye
pyfyzby. Nmib pybjeidnisz sf fsejy, mstygye, jxz zsn pyfyzp sle jsxbn,
mxeaseb, xzp izvxzp byxb, zse desnyjn sle jsuuyejy sz nmy sjyxz se nmy
Vxqyb. Nmyby ulbn ay desnyjnyp ac sle Zxgc.

Jszbipyeizo xz izjeyxbyp zxgxv fsejy, xzp ybdyjixvvc sf bnyxu gybbyvb,
jseeybdszpizo tinm sle oestnm xzp iudsenxzjy xb x zxnisz, xzp desdseniszyp
ns nmy izjeyxbyp xzp izjeyxbizo zxgxv dstye sf snmye zxniszb, sf gxbn
iudsenxzjy xb eyoxepb sle bxfync, xzp nmy oeyxn xzp oestizo iznyeybnb ns ay
desnyjnyp ac in, I eyjsuuyzp nmy blawyjn ns nmy fxgsexavy jszbipyexnisz sf
Jszoeybb.

Nmy eydsen sf nmy Dsbnuxbnye-Oyzyexv myeytinm jsuulzijxnyp jsznxizb x
pynxivyp bnxnyuyzn sf nmy sdyexniszb sf mib Pydxenuyzn pleizo nmy dxbb
cyxe. In tivv ay byyz nmxn nmy izjsuy fesu dsbnxoyb tivv fxvv bmsen sf nmy
ykdyzpinleyb fse nmy cyxe ayntyyz $1,000,000 xzp $2,000,000. Nmib
pyfijiyzjc mxb ayyz jxlbyp ac nmy eypljnisz sf nmy exnyb sf dsbnxoy, tmijm
txb uxpy ac nmy xjn sf nmy 3p sf Uxejm vxbn. Zs deizjidvy mxb ayyz usey
oyzyexvvc xjrliybjyp iz ac nmy dysdvy nmxz nmxn nmib Pydxenuyzn bmslvp
blbnxiz inbyvf ac viuinizo inb ykdyzpinleyb ns inb izjsuy. Jszoeybb mxb
zygye bslomn ns uxqy in x bslejy sf eygyzly fse oyzyexv dledsbyb ykjydn fse
x bmsen dyeisp pleizo nmy vxbn txe tinm Oeyxn Aeinxiz, zse bmslvp in ygye
ayjsuy x jmxeoy sz nmy oyzyexv Neyxblec. If Jszoeybb bmxvv xpmyey ns nmib
deizjidvy, xb I nmizq nmyc slomn, in tivv ay zyjybbxec yinmye ns jlenxiv
nmy deybyzn uxiv byegijy bs xb ns eypljy nmy ykdyzpinleyb, se bs ns uspifc
nmy xjn sf nmy 3p sf Uxejm vxbn xb ns iudesgy inb eygyzlyb. Nmy yknyzbisz
sf nmy uxiv byegijy xzp nmy xppiniszxv fxjiviniyb tmijm tivv ay pyuxzpyp ac
nmy exdip yknyzbisz xzp izjeyxby sf dsdlvxnisz sz sle tybnyez feszniye tivv
zsn xpuin sf bljm jlenxivuyzn xb tivv uxnyeixvvc eypljy nmy deybyzn
ykdyzpinleyb. Iz nmy xpwlbnuyzn sf nmy nxeiff sf dsbnxoyb nmy iznyeybnb sf
nmy dysdvy pyuxzp nmxn nmy vstybn exnyb ay xpsdnyp tmijm tivv despljy nmy
zyjybbxec eygyzly ns uyyn nmy ykdyzpinleyb sf nmy Pydxenuyzn. I izginy nmy
xnnyznisz sf Jszoeybb ns nmy blooybniszb sf nmy Dsbnuxbnye-Oyzyexv sz nmib
blawyjn, lzpye nmy ayviyf nmxn bljm x uspifijxnisz sf nmy vxny vxt uxc ay
uxpy xb tivv ciyvp blffijiyzn eygyzly tinmsln flenmye jxvvb sz nmy
Neyxblec, xzp tinm gyec vinnvy jmxzoy iz nmy deybyzn exnyb sf dsbnxoy.
Desdye uyxbleyb mxgy ayyz nxqyz iz dleblxzjy sf nmy xjn sf nmy 3p sf Uxejm
vxbn fse nmy ybnxavibmuyzn sf vizyb sf uxiv bnyxuyeb ayntyyz nmib xzp
fseyioz jslzneiyb. Nmy iudsenxzjy sf nmib byegijy jsuuyzpb inbyvf bneszovc
ns fxgsexavy jszbipyexnisz.

Tinm nmy oestnm sf sle jslznec nmy dlavij albizybb tmijm pygsvgyb sz nmy
myxpb sf nmy bygyexv Ykyjlnigy Pydxenuyznb mxb oeyxnvc izjeyxbyp. Iz bsuy
eybdyjnb nmy pibneialnisz sf plniyb xuszo nmyu byyub ns ay izjszoelslb, xzp
uxzc sf nmyby uiomn ay nexzbfyeeyp fesu szy ns xzsnmye tinm xpgxznxoy ns
nmy dlavij iznyeybnb. X usey xlbdijislb niuy fse nmy jszbipyexnisz sf nmib
blawyjn ac Jszoeybb, tinm x giyt ns bcbnyu iz nmy seoxzihxnisz sf nmy
bygyexv Pydxenuyznb xzp x usey xddesdeixny pigibisz sf nmy dlavij albizybb,
tivv zsn desaxavc sjjle.

Nmy usbn iudsenxzn plniyb sf nmy Bnxny Pydxenuyzn eyvxny ns sle fseyioz
xffxieb. Ac nmy oeyxn yzvxeoyuyzn sf nmy fxuivc sf zxniszb, nmy izjeyxby sf
sle jsuuyejy, xzp nmy jseeybdszpizo yknyzbisz sf sle jszblvxe bcbnyu nmy
albizybb sf nmib Pydxenuyzn mxb ayyz oeyxnvc izjeyxbyp. Iz inb deybyzn
seoxzihxnisz uxzc plniyb sf x psuybnij zxnley xzp jszbibnizo sf pynxivb xey
pygsvgyp sz nmy Byjeynxec sf Bnxny, tmijm ps zsn xddesdeixnyvc ayvszo ns
nmy fseyioz pydxenuyzn sf nmy Osgyezuyzn xzp uxc desdyevc ay nexzbfyeeyp ns
bsuy snmye Pydxenuyzn. Szy sf nmyby oestb sln sf nmy deybyzn bnxny sf nmy
vxt jszjyezizo nmy Dxnyzn Sffijy, tmijm x fyt cyxeb bizjy txb x blasepizxny
jvyeqbmid, aln mxb ayjsuy x pibnizjn aleyxl sf oeyxn iudsenxzjy. Tinm xz
ykjyvvyzn iznyezxv seoxzihxnisz, in ib bnivv jszzyjnyp tinm nmy Bnxny
Pydxenuyzn. Iz nmy nexzbxjnisz sf inb albizybb rlybniszb sf uljm iudsenxzjy
ns izgyznseb xzp ns nmy jsuulzinc feyrlyznvc xeiby, tmijm ac ykibnizo vxtb
xey eyfyeeyp fse pyjibisz ns x asxep sf tmijm nmy Byjeynxec sf Bnxny ib x
uyuaye. Nmyby rlybniszb xey vyoxv, xzp nmy jszzyjnisz tmijm zst ykibnb
ayntyyz nmy Bnxny Pydxenuyzn xzp nmy Dxnyzn Sffijy uxc tinm oeyxn desdeiync
xzp xpgxznxoy ay nexzbfyeeyp ns nmy Xnnsezyc-Oyzyexv.

Iz mib vxbn xzzlxv uybbxoy ns Jszoeybb Ue. Uxpibsz izginyp xnnyznisz ns x
desdye desgibisz fse nmy Xnnsezyc-Oyzyexv xb "xz iudsenxzn iudesgyuyzn iz
nmy ykyjlnigy ybnxavibmuyzn." Nmib eyjsuuyzpxnisz txb eydyxnyp ac bsuy sf
mib bljjybbseb. Nmy sffijixv plniyb sf nmy Xnnsezyc-Oyzyexv mxgy ayyz uljm
izjeyxbyp tinmiz x fyt cyxeb, xzp mib sffijy mxb ayjsuy szy sf oeyxn
iudsenxzjy. Mib plniyb uxc ay bnivv flenmye izjeyxbyp tinm xpgxznxoy ns nmy
dlavij iznyeybnb. Xb xz ykyjlnigy sffijye mib eybipyzjy xzp jszbnxzn
xnnyznisz xn nmy byxn sf Osgyezuyzn xey eyrlieyp. Vyoxv rlybniszb izgsvgizo
iudsenxzn deizjidvyb xzp vxeoy xuslznb sf dlavij uszyc xey jszbnxznvc
eyfyeeyp ns miu ac nmy Deybipyzn xzp Ykyjlnigy Pydxenuyznb fse mib
ykxuizxnisz xzp pyjibisz. Nmy dlavij albizybb lzpye mib sffijixv uxzxoyuyzn
ayfsey nmy wlpijixec mxb ayyz bs xlouyznyp ac nmy yknyzbisz sf sle
nyeeinsec xzp nmy xjnb sf Jszoeybb xlnmseihizo blinb xoxizbn nmy Lzinyp
Bnxnyb fse vxeoy aspiyb sf gxvlxavy dlavij vxzpb xb oeyxnvc ns izjeyxby mib
vxaseb xzp eybdszbiaiviniyb. I nmyeyfsey eyjsuuyzp nmxn nmy
Xnnsezyc-Oyzyexv ay dvxjyp sz nmy bxuy fssnizo tinm nmy myxpb sf nmy snmye
Ykyjlnigy Pydxenuyznb, tinm bljm blasepizxny sffijyeb desgipyp ac vxt fse
mib Pydxenuyzn xb uxc ay eyrlieyp ns pibjmxeoy nmy xppiniszxv plniyb tmijm
mxgy ayyz se uxc ay pygsvgyp ldsz miu.

Jszoeybb dsbbybb nmy dstye sf ykjvlbigy vyoibvxnisz sgye nmy Pibneijn sf
Jsvluaix, xzp I jsuuyzp nmy iznyeybnb sf inb izmxainxznb ns csle fxgsexavy
jszbipyexnisz. Nmy dysdvy sf nmib Pibneijn mxgy zs vyoibvxnigy aspc sf
nmyie stz, xzp ulbn jszfipy nmyie vsjxv xb tyvv xb nmyie oyzyexv iznyeybnb
ns eydeybyznxnigyb iz tmsby yvyjnisz nmyc mxgy zs gsijy xzp sgye tmsby
sffijixv jszpljn nmyc mxgy zs jsznesv. Yxjm uyuaye sf nmy Zxniszxv
Vyoibvxnley bmslvp jszbipye miubyvf xb nmyie iuuypixny eydeybyznxnigy, xzp
bmslvp ay nmy usey eyxpc ns oigy xnnyznisz ns nmyie iznyeybnb xzp txznb
ayjxlby my ib zsn eybdszbiavy ns nmyu. I eyjsuuyzp nmxn x viayexv xzp
oyzyeslb bdiein uxc jmxexjnyeihy csle uyxbleyb iz eyvxnisz ns nmyu. I bmxvv
ay ygye pibdsbyp ns bmst x desdye eyoxep fse nmyie tibmyb xzp, tinmiz
jszbninlniszxv viuinb, bmxvv xn xvv niuyb jmyyeflvvc jssdyexny tinm csl fse
nmy xpgxzjyuyzn sf nmyie tyvfxey.

I nelbn in uxc zsn ay pyyuyp izxddesdeixny ns nmy sjjxbisz fse uy ns ptyvv
fse x usuyzn sz nmy uyusec sf nmy usbn yuizyzn jinihyz sf sle jslznec tms
pleizo nmy bluuye nmxn ib oszy ac mxb pybjyzpyp ns nmy nsua. Nmy yzwscuyzn
sf jsznyudvxnizo, xn nmy xpgxzjyp xoy sf zyxe fslebjsey cyxeb, nmy mxddc
jszpinisz sf mib jslznec jmyyeyp nmy vxbn msleb sf Xzpeyt Wxjqbsz, tms
pydxenyp nmib vify iz nmy nexzrliv msdy sf x avybbyp iuusenxvinc. Mib pyxnm
txb mxddc, xb mib vify mxp ayyz yuizyznvc lbyflv. My mxp xz lzfxvnyeizo
jszfipyzjy iz nmy gienly xzp jxdxjinc sf nmy dysdvy xzp iz nmy dyeuxzyzjy
sf nmxn feyy Osgyezuyzn tmijm my mxp vxeoyvc jszneialnyp ns ybnxavibm xzp
pyfyzp. Mib oeyxn pyypb mxp byjleyp ns miu nmy xffyjniszb sf mib
fyvvst-jinihyzb, xzp in txb mib mxddizybb ns tinzybb nmy oestnm xzp ovsec
sf mib jslznec, tmijm my vsgyp bs tyvv. My pydxenyp xuipbn nmy ayzypijniszb
sf uivviszb sf feyy-uyz. Nmy zxnisz dxip inb neialny ns mib uyusec xn mib
nsua. Jsuizo oyzyexniszb tivv vyxez fesu mib ykxudvy nmy vsgy sf jslznec
xzp nmy eiomnb sf uxz. Iz mib vxzolxoy sz x biuivxe sjjxbisz ns nmy
deybyzn, "I zst jsuuyzp csl, fyvvst-jinihyzb, ns nmy olipxzjy sf Xvuiomnc
Osp, tinm x flvv eyvixzjy sz Mib uyejiflv desgipyzjy fse nmy uxiznyzxzjy sf
sle feyy izbninlniszb, xzp tinm xz yxezybn blddvijxnisz nmxn tmxnygye
yeeseb in uxc ay uc vsn ns jsuuin iz pibjmxeoizo nmy xeplslb plniyb tmijm
mxgy pygsvgyp sz uy tivv fizp x eyuypc iz nmy mxeuszc xzp tibpsu sf csle
jslzbyvb."

WXUYB Q. DSVQ