Jcttgl-Fwewkchy gj erc Ychdec dhm gj erc Rgiyc gj Vcxvcychedewocy:

Wh vcyipwhq bgiv tdzgvy wh erc ycvowfc gj erc xcgxtc we wy d yizncfe gj
fghqvdeitdewgh erde ercvc rdy zcch hg xcvwgm wh giv xdye rwyegvb lrch dtt
erc ctcpchey gj hdewghdt xvgyxcvweb rdoc zcch yg jittb mcoctgxcm. Ywhfc
bgiv tdye ycyywgh hg djjtwfewhq mwyxchydewgh rdy owywecm giv fgihevb.
Qchcvdt qggm rcdter rdy xvcodwtcm, dzihmdhfc rdy fvglhcm erc egwt gj erc
riyzdhmpdh, dhm tdzgv wh dtt wey zvdhfrcy wy vcfcwowhq dh dpxtc vcldvm,
lrwtc cmifdewgh, yfwchfc, dhm erc dvey dvc vdxwmtb chtdvqwhq erc pcdhy gj
ygfwdt rdxxwhcyy. Erc xvgqvcyy gj giv fgihevb wh rcv fdvccv gj qvcdehcyy,
hge ghtb wh erc odye cuechywgh gj giv ecvvwegvwdt twpwey dhm erc vdxwm
whfvcdyc gj giv xgxitdewgh, zie wh vcygivfcy dhm lcdter dhm wh erc rdxxb
fghmwewgh gj giv xcgxtc, wy lwergie dh cudpxtc wh erc rwyegvb gj hdewghy.

Dy erc lwymgp, yevchqer, dhm zchcjwfchfc gj giv jvcc whyeweiewghy dvc
ihjgtmcm, cocvb mdb dmmy jvcyr pgewocy eg fghechepche dhm jvcyr whfchewocy
eg xdevwgewyp.

Giv mcogie dhm ywhfcvc dfshgltcmqpchey dvc mic eg erc qvdfwgiy Qwocv gj Dtt
Qggm jgv erc hipzcvtcyy ztcyywhqy lrwfr giv zctgocm fgihevb chngby.

We wy d ygivfc gj rwqr ydewyjdfewgh eg shgl erde erc vctdewghy gj erc
Ihwecm Yedecy lwer dtt gercv hdewghy, lwer d ywhqtc cufcxewgh, dvc gj erc
pgye dpwfdztc frdvdfecv. Ywhfcvctb deedfrcm eg erc xgtwfb gj xcdfc cdvtb
dmgxecm dhm yecdmwtb xivyicm zb erwy Qgocvhpche, W rdoc dhuwgiytb mcywvcm
eg fitewodec dhm frcvwyr jvwchmyrwx dhm fgppcvfc lwer cocvb jgvcwqh xglcv.
Erc yxwvwe dhm rdzwey gj erc Dpcvwfdh xcgxtc dvc jdogvdztc eg erc
pdwhechdhfc gj yifr whecvhdewghdt rdvpghb. Wh dmrcvwhq eg erwy lwyc xgtwfb,
d xvctwpwhdvb dhm xdvdpgihe mieb gzowgiytb fghywyey wh erc xvgecfewgh gj
giv hdewghdt whecvcyey jvgp chfvgdfrpche gv ydfvwjwfc dhm giv hdewghdt
rghgv jvgp vcxvgdfr. Ercyc piye zc pdwhedwhcm de dhb rdkdvm. Ercb dmpwe gj
hg fgpxvgpwyc gv hcqtcfe, dhm piye zc yfvixitgiytb dhm fghyedhetb qidvmcm.
Wh ercwv owqwtdhe owhmwfdewgh fgttwywgh dhm fghjtwfe lwer jgvcwqh xglcvy
pdb ygpcewpcy zcfgpc ihdogwmdztc. Yifr rdy zcch giv yfvixitgiy dmrcvchfc eg
erc mwfedecy gj niyewfc wh dtt giv jgvcwqh whecvfgivyc erde, ergiqr
yecdmwtb dhm vdxwmtb dmodhfwhq wh xvgyxcvweb dhm xglcv, lc rdoc qwoch hg
niye fdiyc gj fgpxtdwhe eg dhb hdewgh dhm rdoc chngbcm erc ztcyywhqy gj
xcdfc jgv pgvc erdh erwveb bcdvy. Jvgp d xgtwfb yg ydfvcm eg ripdhweb dhm
yg ydtiedvb wh wey cjjcfey ixgh giv xgtwewfdt ybyecp lc yrgitm hcocv zc
whmifcm ogtihedvwtb eg mcxdve.

Erc cuwyewhq ldv lwer Pcuwfg ldy hcwercv mcywvcm hgv xvgogscm zb erc Ihwecm
Yedecy. Gh erc fghevdvb, dtt rghgvdztc pcdhy lcvc vcygvecm eg eg docve we.
Djecv bcdvy gj chmivdhfc gj dqqvdodecm dhm ihvcmvcyycm lvghqy gh giv xdve,
Pcuwfg, wh owgtdewgh gj ygtcph evcdeb yewxitdewghy dhm gj cocvb xvwhfwxtc
gj niyewfc vcfgqhwkcm zb fwowtwkcm hdewghy, fgppchfcm rgyewtwewcy, dhm eriy
zb rcv glh dfe jgvfcm erc ldv ixgh iy. Tghq zcjgvc erc dmodhfc gj giv Dvpb
eg erc tcje zdhs gj erc Vwg Qvdhmc lc rdm dpxtc fdiyc gj ldv dqdwhye
Pcuwfg, dhm rdm erc Ihwecm Yedecy vcygvecm eg erwy cuevcpweb lc pwqre rdoc
dxxcdtcm eg erc lrgtc fwowtwkcm lgvtm jgv erc niyewfc gj giv fdiyc. W mccp
we eg zc pb mieb eg xvcyche eg bgi gh erc xvcyche gffdywgh d fghmchycm
vcowcl gj erc whnivwcy lc rdm yiyedwhcm, gj erc fdiycy lrwfr tcm eg erc
ldv, dhm gj wey xvgqvcyy ywhfc wey fgppchfcpche. Erwy wy vchmcvcm erc pgvc
hcfcyydvb zcfdiyc gj erc pwydxxvcrchywghy lrwfr rdoc eg ygpc cueche
xvcodwtcm dy eg wey gvwqwh dhm evic frdvdfecv. Erc ldv rdy zcch vcxvcychecm
dy ihniye dhm ihhcfcyydvb dhm dy ghc gj dqqvcyywgh gh giv xdve ixgh d lcds
dhm whnivcm chcpb. Yifr cvvghcgiy owcly, ergiqr checvedwhcm zb zie jcl,
rdoc zcch lwmctb dhm cuechywoctb fwvfitdecm, hge ghtb de rgpc, zie rdoc
zcch yxvcdm ervgiqrgie Pcuwfg dhm erc lrgtc lgvtm. D pgvc cjjcfeidt pcdhy
fgitm hge rdoc zcch mcowycm eg chfgivdqc erc chcpb dhm xvgevdfe erc ldv
erdh eg dmogfdec dhm dmrcvc eg ercwv fdiyc, dhm eriy qwoc ercp "dwm dhm
fgpjgve." We wy d ygivfc gj hdewghdt xvwmc dhm cuitedewgh erde erc qvcde
zgmb gj giv xcgxtc rdoc ervglh hg yifr gzyedftcy wh erc ldb gj erc
Qgocvhpche wh xvgycfiewhq erc ldv yiffcyyjittb, zie rdoc yrglh ercpyctocy
eg zc cpwhchetb xdevwgewf dhm vcdmb eg owhmwfdec ercwv fgihevb'y rghgv dhm
whecvcyey de dhb ydfvwjwfc. Erc dtdfvweb dhm xvgpxehcyy lwer lrwfr giv
ogtiheccv jgvfcy viyrcm eg erc jwctm gh ercwv fgihevb'y fdtt xvgoc hge ghtb
ercwv xdevwgewyp, zie ercwv mccx fghowfewgh erde giv fdiyc wy niye.

Erc lvghqy lrwfr lc rdoc yijjcvcm jvgp Pcuwfg dtpgye cocv ywhfc yrc zcfdpc
dh whmcxchmche xglcv dhm erc xdewche chmivdhfc lwer lrwfr lc rdoc zgvhc
ercp dvc lwergie d xdvdttct wh erc rwyegvb gj pgmcvh fwowtwkcm hdewghy.
Ercvc wy vcdygh eg zctwcoc erde wj ercyc lvghqy rdm zcch vcychecm dhm
vcywyecm wh erc jwvye whyedhfc erc xvcyche ldv pwqre rdoc zcch dogwmcm. Ghc
gievdqc, rglcocv, xcvpweecm eg xdyy lwer wpxihweb dtpgye hcfcyydvwtb
chfgivdqcm erc xcvxcevdewgh gj dhgercv, ihewt de tdye Pcuwfg yccpcm eg
deevwziec eg lcdshcyy dhm whmcfwywgh gh giv xdve d jgvzcdvdhfc lrwfr ldy
erc gjjyxvwhq gj pdqhdhwpweb dhm gj d ywhfcvc mcywvc eg xvcycvoc jvwchmtb
vctdewghy lwer d ywyecv vcxiztwf.

Yfdvfctb rdm Pcuwfg dfrwcocm rcv whmcxchmchfc, lrwfr erc Ihwecm Yedecy lcvc
erc jwvye dpghq erc hdewghy eg dfshgltcmqc, lrch yrc fgppchfcm erc ybyecp
gj whyite dhm yxgtwdewgh lrwfr yrc rdy cocv ywhfc xivyicm. Giv fwewkchy
chqdqcm wh tdljit fgppcvfc lcvc wpxvwyghcm, ercwv ocyycty ycwkcm, dhm giv
jtdq whyitecm wh rcv xgvey. Wj pghcb ldy ldhecm, erc tdltcyy ycwkivc dhm
fghjwyfdewgh gj giv pcvfrdhe ocyycty dhm ercwv fdvqgcy ldy d vcdmb
vcygivfc, dhm wj eg dffgpxtwyr ercwv xivxgycy we zcfdpc hcfcyydvb eg
wpxvwygh erc glhcvy, fdxedwhy, dhm fvcly, we ldy mghc. Vitcvy yixcvycmcm
vitcvy wh Pcuwfg wh vdxwm yiffcyywgh, zie yewtt ercvc ldy hg frdhqc wh erwy
ybyecp gj mcxvcmdewgh. Erc Qgocvhpche gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy pdmc vcxcdecm
vcftdpdewghy gh zcrdtj gj wey fwewkchy, zie ercyc lcvc dhylcvcm zb erc
xcvxcevdewgh gj hcl gievdqcy. Xvgpwycy gj vcmvcyy pdmc zb Pcuwfg wh erc
pgye ygtcph jgvpy lcvc xgyexghcm gv codmcm. Erc jwtcy dhm vcfgvmy gj erc
Mcxdvepche gj Yedec fghedwh fghftiywoc xvggjy gj hipcvgiy tdltcyy dfey
xcvxcevdecm ixgh erc xvgxcveb dhm xcvyghy gj giv fwewkchy zb Pcuwfg, dhm gj
ldhegh whyitey eg giv hdewghdt jtdq. Erc whecvxgywewgh gj giv Qgocvhpche eg
gzedwh vcmvcyy ldy dqdwh dhm dqdwh whogscm ihmcv fwvfipyedhfcy lrwfr hg
hdewgh giqre eg mwyvcqdvm. We ldy rgxcm erde ercyc gievdqcy lgitm fcdyc dhm
erde Pcuwfg lgitm zc vcyevdwhcm zb erc tdly lrwfr vcqitdec erc fghmife gj
fwowtwkcm hdewghy wh ercwv whecvfgivyc lwer cdfr gercv djecv erc evcdeb gj
dpweb, fgppcvfc, dhm hdowqdewgh gj erc 5er gj Dxvwt, 1831, ldy fghftimcm
zcelcch erc elg Vcxiztwfy; zie erwy rgxc yggh xvgocm eg zc odwh. Erc fgivyc
gj ycwkivc dhm fghjwyfdewgh gj erc xvgxcveb gj giv fwewkchy, erc owgtdewgh
gj ercwv xcvyghy, dhm erc whyitey eg giv jtdq xivyicm zb Pcuwfg xvcowgiy eg
erde ewpc lcvc yfdvfctb yiyxchmcm jgv coch d zvwcj xcvwgm, dtergiqr erc
evcdeb yg ftcdvtb mcjwhcy erc vwqrey dhm miewcy gj erc vcyxcfewoc xdvewcy
erde we wy wpxgyywztc eg pwyihmcvyedhm gv pwyedsc ercp. Wh tcyy erdh ycoch
bcdvy djecv erc fghftiywgh gj erde evcdeb giv qvwcodhfcy rdm zcfgpc yg
whegtcvdztc erde wh erc gxwhwgh gj Xvcywmche Ndfsygh ercb yrgitm hg tghqcv
zc chmivcm. Wh rwy pcyydqc eg Fghqvcyy wh Jczvidvb, 1837, rc xvcychecm ercp
eg erc fghywmcvdewgh gj erde zgmb, dhm mcftdvcm erde--

Erc tchqer gj ewpc ywhfc ygpc gj erc whnivwcy rdoc zcch fgppweecm, erc
vcxcdecm dhm ihdodwtwhq dxxtwfdewghy jgv vcmvcyy, erc ldhegh frdvdfecv gj
ygpc gj erc gievdqcy ixgh erc xvgxcveb dhm xcvyghy gj giv fwewkchy, ixgh
erc gjjwfcvy dhm jtdq gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy, whmcxchmche gj vcfche whyitey
eg erwy Qgocvhpche dhm xcgxtc zb erc tdec cuevdgvmwhdvb Pcuwfdh pwhwyecv,
lgitm niyewjb wh erc cbcy gj dtt hdewghy wppcmwdec ldv.

Wh d yxwvwe gj swhmhcyy dhm jgvzcdvdhfc, rglcocv, rc vcfgppchmcm vcxvwydty
dy d pwtmcv pgmc gj vcmvcyy. Rc mcftdvcm erde ldv yrgitm hge zc iycm dy d
vcpcmb "zb niye dhm qchcvgiy hdewghy, fghjwmwhq wh ercwv yevchqer jgv
whnivwcy fgppweecm, wj we fdh zc rghgvdztb dogwmcm," dhm dmmcm:

We rdy gffivvcm eg pc erde, fghywmcvwhq erc xvcyche cpzdvvdyycm fghmwewgh
gj erde fgihevb, lc yrgitm dfe lwer zger lwymgp dhm pgmcvdewgh zb qwowhq eg
Pcuwfg ghc pgvc gxxgveihweb eg deghc jgv erc xdye zcjgvc lc edsc vcmvcyy
wheg giv Glh rdhmy. Eg dogwm dtt pwyfghfcxewgh gh erc xdve gj Pcuwfg, dy
lctt dy eg xvgecfe giv glh hdewghdt frdvdfecv jvgp vcxvgdfr, erwy
gxxgveihweb yrgitm zc qwoch lwer erc doglcm mcywqh dhm jitt xvcxdvdewgh eg
edsc wppcmwdec ydewyjdfewgh wj we yrgitm hge zc gzedwhcm gh d vcxcewewgh gj
erc mcpdhm jgv we. Eg erwy chm W vcfgppchm erde dh dfe zc xdyycm
diergvwkwhq vcxvwydty, dhm erc iyc gj erc hdodt jgvfc gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy
zb erc Cucfiewoc dqdwhye Pcuwfg eg chjgvfc ercp, wh erc coche gj d vcjiydt
zb erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche eg fgpc eg dh dpwfdztc dmniyepche gj erc pdeecvy
wh fghevgocvyb zcelcch iy ixgh dhgercv mcpdhm ercvcgj pdmc jvgp gh zgdvm
gie gj giv ocyycty gj ldv gh erc fgdye gj Pcuwfg.

Fgppweeccy gj zger Rgiycy gj Fghqvcyy, eg lrwfr erwy pcyydqc gj erc
Xvcywmche ldy vcjcvvcm, jittb yiyedwhcm rwy owcly gj erc frdvdfecv gj erc
lvghqy lrwfr lc rdm yijjcvcm jvgp Pcuwfg, dhm vcfgppchmcm erde dhgercv
mcpdhm jgv vcmvcyy yrgitm zc pdmc zcjgvc diergvwkwhq ldv gv vcxvwydty. Erc
Fgppweecc gh Jgvcwqh Vctdewghy gj erc Ychdec, wh ercwv vcxgve, ydb:

Djecv yifr d mcpdhm, yrgitm xvgpxe niyewfc zc vcjiycm zb erc Pcuwfdh
Qgocvhpche, lc pdb dxxcdt eg dtt hdewghy, hge ghtb jgv erc caiweb dhm
pgmcvdewgh lwer lrwfr lc yrdtt rdoc dfecm egldvm d ywyecv vcxiztwf, zie jgv
erc hcfcyyweb lrwfr lwtt erch fgpxct iy eg yccs vcmvcyy jgv giv lvghqy,
cwercv zb dfeidt ldv gv zb vcxvwydty. Erc yizncfe lwtt erch zc xvcychecm
zcjgvc Fghqvcyy, de erc fgppchfcpche gj erc hcue ycyywgh, wh d ftcdv dhm
mwyewhfe jgvp, dhm erc fgppweecc fdh hge mgize zie erde yifr pcdyivcy lwtt
zc wppcmwdectb dmgxecm dy pdb zc hcfcyydvb eg owhmwfdec erc rghgv gj erc
fgihevb dhm whyivc dpxtc vcxdvdewgh eg giv whnivcm jcttgl-fwewkchy.

Erc Fgppweecc gh Jgvcwqh Djjdwvy gj erc Rgiyc gj Vcxvcychedewocy pdmc d
ywpwtdv vcfgppchmdewgh. Wh ercwv vcxgve ercb ydb erde--

Ercb jittb fghfiv lwer erc Xvcywmche erde dpxtc fdiyc cuwyey jgv edswhq
vcmvcyy wheg giv glh rdhmy, dhm zctwcoc erde lc yrgitm zc niyewjwcm wh erc
gxwhwgh gj gercv hdewghy jgv edswhq yifr d yecx. Zie ercb dvc lwttwhq eg
evb erc cuxcvwpche gj dhgercv mcpdhm, pdmc wh erc pgye ygtcph jgvp, ixgh
erc niyewfc gj erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche zcjgvc dhb jivercv xvgfccmwhqy dvc
dmgxecm.

Hg mwjjcvchfc gj gxwhwgh ixgh erc yizncfe wy zctwcocm eg rdoc cuwyecm wh
Fghqvcyy de erde ewpc; erc cucfiewoc dhm tcqwytdewoc mcxdvepchey fghfivvcm;
dhm bce yifr rdy zcch giv jgvzcdvdhfc dhm mcywvc eg xvcycvoc xcdfc lwer
Pcuwfg erde erc lvghqy gj lrwfr lc erch fgpxtdwhcm, dhm lrwfr qdoc vwyc eg
ercyc ygtcph xvgfccmwhqy, hge ghtb vcpdwh ihvcmvcyycm eg erwy mdb, zie
dmmwewghdt fdiycy gj fgpxtdwhe gj dh dqqvdodecm frdvdfecv rdoc cocv ywhfc
zcch dffipitdewhq. Yrgvetb djecv ercyc xvgfccmwhqy d yxcfwdt pcyychqcv ldy
mwyxdefrcm eg Pcuwfg eg pdsc d jwhdt mcpdhm jgv vcmvcyy, dhm gh erc 20er gj
Nitb, 1837, erc mcpdhm ldy pdmc. Erc vcxtb gj erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche zcdvy
mdec gh erc 29er gj erc ydpc pgher, dhm fghedwhy dyyivdhfcy gj erc "dhuwgiy
lwyr" gj erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche "hge eg mctdb erc pgpche gj erde jwhdt dhm
caiwedztc dmniyepche lrwfr wy eg ecvpwhdec erc cuwyewhq mwjjwfitewcy
zcelcch erc elg Qgocvhpchey;" erde "hgerwhq yrgitm zc tcje ihmghc lrwfr pdb
fghevwziec eg erc pgye yxccmb dhm caiwedztc mcecvpwhdewgh gj erc yizncfey
lrwfr rdoc yg ycvwgiytb chqdqcm erc deechewgh gj erc Dpcvwfdh Qgocvhpche;"
erde erc "Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche lgitm dmgxe dy erc ghtb qiwmcy jgv wey fghmife
erc xtdwhcye xvwhfwxtcy gj xiztwf vwqre, erc ydfvcm gztwqdewghy wpxgycm zb
whecvhdewghdt tdl, dhm erc vctwqwgiy jdwer gj evcdewcy," dhm erde "lrdecocv
vcdygh dhm niyewfc pdb mwfedec vcyxcfewhq cdfr fdyc lwtt zc mghc." Erc
dyyivdhfc ldy jivercv qwoch erde erc mcfwywgh gj erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche
ixgh cdfr fdiyc gj fgpxtdwhe jgv lrwfr vcmvcyy rdm zcch mcpdhmcm yrgitm zc
fgppihwfdecm eg erc Qgocvhpche gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy zb erc Pcuwfdh pwhwyecv
de Ldyrwhqegh.

Ercyc ygtcph dyyivdhfcy wh dhylcv eg giv mcpdhm jgv vcmvcyy lcvc
mwyvcqdvmcm. Zb pdswhq ercp, rglcocv, Pcuwfg gzedwhcm jivercv mctdb.
Xvcywmche Odh Zivch, wh rwy dhhidt pcyydqc eg Fghqvcyy gj erc 5er gj
Mcfcpzcv, 1837, yedecy erde "dtergiqr erc tdvqcv hipzcv" gj giv mcpdhmy jgv
vcmvcyy, "dhm pdhb gj ercp dqqvdodecm fdycy gj xcvyghdt lvghqy, rdoc zcch
hgl jgv bcdvy zcjgvc erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche, dhm ygpc gj erc fdiycy gj
hdewghdt fgpxtdwhe, dhm ergyc gj erc pgye gjjchywoc frdvdfecv, dmpweecm gj
wppcmwdec, ywpxtc, dhm ydewyjdfegvb vcxtwcy, we wy ghtb lwerwh d jcl mdby
xdye erde dhb yxcfwjwf fgppihwfdewgh wh dhylcv eg giv tdye mcpdhm, pdmc
jwoc pghery dqg, rdy zcch vcfcwocm jvgp erc Pcuwfdh pwhwyecv;" dhm erde
"jgv hge ghc gj giv xiztwf fgpxtdwhey rdy ydewyjdfewgh zcch qwoch gv
gjjcvcm, erde zie ghc gj erc fdycy gj xcvyghdt lvghq rdy zcch jdogvdztb
fghywmcvcm, dhm erde zie jgiv fdycy gj zger mcyfvwxewghy gie gj dtt ergyc
jgvpdttb xvcychecm dhm cdvhcyetb xvcyycm rdoc dy bce zcch mcfwmcm ixgh zb
erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche." Xvcywmche Odh Zivch, zctwcowhq erde we lgitm zc
odwh eg pdsc dhb jivercv deecpxe eg gzedwh vcmvcyy zb erc gvmwhdvb pcdhy
lwerwh erc xglcv gj erc Cucfiewoc, fgppihwfdecm erwy gxwhwgh eg Fghqvcyy wh
erc pcyydqc vcjcvvcm eg, wh lrwfr rc ydwm:

Gh d fdvcjit dhm mctwzcvdec cudpwhdewgh gj ercwv fghechey gj erc
fgvvcyxghmchfc lwer erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche, dhm fghywmcvwhq erc yxwvwe
pdhwjcyecm zb erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche, we rdy zcfgpc pb xdwhjit mieb eg
vceivh erc yizncfe dy we hgl yedhmy eg Fghqvcyy, eg lrgp we zctghqy eg
mcfwmc ixgh erc ewpc, erc pgmc, dhm erc pcdyivc gj vcmvcyy.

Rdm erc Ihwecm Yedecy de erde ewpc dmgxecm fgpxitygvb pcdyivcy dhm edsch
vcmvcyy wheg ercwv glh rdhmy, dtt giv mwjjwfitewcy lwer Pcuwfg lgitm
xvgzdztb rdoc zcch tghq ywhfc dmniyecm dhm erc cuwyewhq ldv rdoc zcch
docvecm. Pdqhdhwpweb dhm pgmcvdewgh gh giv xdve ghtb rdm erc cjjcfe eg
fgpxtwfdec ercyc mwjjwfitewcy dhm vchmcv dh dpwfdztc yceetcpche gj ercp erc
pgvc cpzdvvdyywhq. Erde yifr pcdyivcy gj vcmvcyy ihmcv ywpwtdv xvgogfdewghy
fgppweecm zb dhb gj erc xglcvjit hdewghy gj Civgxc lgitm rdoc zcch xvgpxetb
vcygvecm eg zb erc Ihwecm Yedecy fdh hge zc mgizecm. Erc hdewghdt rghgv dhm
erc xvcycvodewgh gj erc hdewghdt frdvdfecv ervgiqrgie erc lgvtm, dy lctt dy
giv glh yctj-vcyxcfe dhm erc xvgecfewgh mic eg giv glh fwewkchy, lgitm rdoc
vchmcvcm yifr d vcygve whmwyxchydztc. Erc rwyegvb gj hg fwowtwkcm hdewgh wh
pgmcvh ewpcy rdy xvcychecm lwerwh yg zvwcj d xcvwgm yg pdhb ldhegh deedfsy
ixgh erc rghgv gj wey jtdq dhm ixgh erc xvgxcveb dhm xcvyghy gj wey
fwewkchy dy rdm de erde ewpc zcch zgvhc zb erc Ihwecm Yedecy jvgp erc
Pcuwfdh diergvwewcy dhm xcgxtc. Zie Pcuwfg ldy d ywyecv vcxiztwf gh erc
Hgver Dpcvwfdh fghewhche, gffixbwhq d ecvvwegvb fghewqigiy eg giv glh, dhm
ldy wh d jccztc dhm mwyevdfecm fghmwewgh, dhm ercyc fghywmcvdewghy, we wy
xvcyipcm, whmifcm Fghqvcyy eg jgvzcdv yewtt tghqcv.

Whyecdm gj edswhq vcmvcyy wheg giv glh rdhmy, d hcl hcqgewdewgh ldy checvcm
ixgh lwer jdwv xvgpwycy gh erc xdve gj Pcuwfg, zie lwer erc vcdt xivxgyc,
dy erc coche rdy xvgocm, gj whmcjwhwectb xgyexghwhq erc vcxdvdewgh lrwfr lc
mcpdhmcm, dhm lrwfr ldy yg niyetb mic. Erwy hcqgewdewgh, djecv pgvc erdh d
bcdv'y mctdb, vcyitecm wh erc fghochewgh gj erc 11er gj Dxvwt, 1839, "jgv
erc dmniyepche gj ftdwpy gj fwewkchy gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy gj Dpcvwfd ixgh
erc Qgocvhpche gj erc Pcuwfdh Vcxiztwf." Erc ngwhe zgdvm gj fgppwyywghcvy
fvcdecm zb erwy fghochewgh eg cudpwhc dhm mcfwmc ixgh ercyc ftdwpy ldy hge
gvqdhwkcm ihewt erc pgher gj Diqiye, 1840, dhm ihmcv erc ecvpy gj erc
fghochewgh ercb lcvc eg ecvpwhdec ercwv miewcy lwerwh cwqrecch pghery jvgp
erde ewpc. Jgiv gj erc cwqrecch pghery lcvc fghyipcm wh xvctwpwhdvb
mwyfiyywghy gh jvwogtgiy dhm mwtdegvb xgwhey vdwycm zb erc Pcuwfdh
fgppwyywghcvy, dhm we ldy hge ihewt erc pgher gj Mcfcpzcv, 1840, erde ercb
fgppchfcm erc cudpwhdewgh gj erc ftdwpy gj giv fwewkchy ixgh Pcuwfg.
Jgivecch pghery ghtb vcpdwhcm eg cudpwhc dhm mcfwmc ixgh ercyc hipcvgiy dhm
fgpxtwfdecm fdycy. Wh erc pgher gj Jczvidvb, 1842, erc ecvp gj erc
fgppwyywgh cuxwvcm, tcdowhq pdhb ftdwpy ihmwyxgycm gj jgv ldhe gj ewpc. Erc
ftdwpy lrwfr lcvc dttglcm zb erc zgdvm dhm zb erc ipxwvc diergvwkcm zb erc
fghochewgh eg mcfwmc wh fdyc gj mwydqvccpche zcelcch erc Pcuwfdh dhm
Dpcvwfdh fgppwyywghcvy dpgihecm eg $2,026,139.68. Ercvc lcvc xchmwhq zcjgvc
erc ipxwvc lrch erc fgppwyywgh cuxwvcm dmmwewghdt ftdwpy, lrwfr rdm zcch
cudpwhcm dhm dldvmcm zb erc Dpcvwfdh fgppwyywghcvy dhm rdm hge zcch dttglcm
zb erc Pcuwfdh fgppwyywghcvy, dpgihewhq eg $928,627.88, ixgh lrwfr rc mwm
hge mcfwmc, dttcqwhq erde rwy diergvweb rdm fcdycm lwer erc ecvpwhdewgh gj
erc ngwhe fgppwyywgh. Zcywmcy ercyc ftdwpy, ercvc lcvc gercvy gj Dpcvwfdh
fwewkchy dpgihewhq eg $3,336,837.05, lrwfr rdm zcch yizpweecm eg erc zgdvm,
dhm ixgh lrwfr ercb rdm hge ewpc eg mcfwmc zcjgvc ercwv jwhdt dmngivhpche.

Erc yip gj $2,026,139.68, lrwfr rdm zcch dldvmcm eg erc ftdwpdhey, ldy d
twaiwmdecm dhm dyfcvedwhcm mcze mic zb Pcuwfg, dzgie lrwfr ercvc fgitm zc
hg mwyxiec, dhm lrwfr yrc ldy zgihm eg xdb dffgvmwhq eg erc ecvpy gj erc
fghochewgh. Yggh djecv erc jwhdt dldvmy jgv erwy dpgihe rdm zcch pdmc erc
Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche dyscm jgv d xgyexghcpche gj erc ewpc gj pdswhq xdbpche,
dttcqwhq erde we lgitm zc whfghochwche eg pdsc erc xdbpche de erc ewpc
yewxitdecm. Wh erc yxwvwe gj jgvzcdvwhq swhmhcyy egldvm d ywyecv vcxiztwf,
lrwfr Pcuwfg rdy yg tghq dziycm, erc Ihwecm Yedecy xvgpxetb fgpxtwcm lwer
rcv vcaicye. D ycfghm fghochewgh ldy dffgvmwhqtb fghftimcm zcelcch erc elg
Qgocvhpchey gh erc 30er gj Ndhidvb, 1843, lrwfr ixgh wey jdfc mcftdvcy erde
"erwy hcl dvvdhqcpche wy checvcm wheg jgv erc dffgppgmdewgh gj Pcuwfg." Zb
erc ecvpy gj erwy fghochewgh dtt erc whecvcye mic gh erc dldvmy lrwfr rdm
zcch pdmc wh jdogv gj erc ftdwpdhey ihmcv erc fghochewgh gj erc 11er gj
Dxvwt, 1839, ldy eg zc xdwm eg ercp gh erc 30er gj Dxvwt, 1843, dhm "erc
xvwhfwxdt gj erc ydwm dldvmy dhm erc whecvcye dffviwhq ercvcgh" ldy
yewxitdecm eg "zc xdwm wh jwoc bcdvy, wh caidt whyedttpchey cocvb ervcc
pghery." Hgelweryedhmwhq erwy hcl fghochewgh ldy checvcm wheg de erc
vcaicye gj Pcuwfg dhm jgv erc xivxgyc gj vctwcowhq rcv jvgp cpzdvvdyypche,
erc ftdwpdhey rdoc ghtb vcfcwocm erc whecvcye mic gh erc 30er gj Dxvwt,
1843, dhm ervcc gj erc elcheb whyedttpchey. Dtergiqr erc xdbpche gj erc yip
eriy twaiwmdecm dhm fghjcyycmtb mic zb Pcuwfg eg giv fwewkchy dy whmcphweb
jgv dfshgltcmqcm dfey gj gievdqc dhm lvghq ldy ycfivcm zb evcdeb, erc
gztwqdewghy gj lrwfr dvc cocv rctm ydfvcm zb dtt niye hdewghy, bce Pcuwfg
rdy owgtdecm erwy ygtcph chqdqcpche zb jdwtwhq dhm vcjiywhq eg pdsc erc
xdbpche. Erc elg whyedttpchey mic wh Dxvwt dhm Nitb, 1844, ihmcv erc
xcfitwdv fwvfipyedhfcy fghhcfecm lwer ercp, rdoc zcch dyyipcm zb erc Ihwecm
Yedecy dhm mwyfrdvqcm eg erc ftdwpdhey, zie ercb dvc yewtt mic zb Pcuwfg.
Zie erwy wy hge dtt gj lrwfr lc rdoc niye fdiyc gj fgpxtdwhe. Eg xvgowmc d
vcpcmb jgv erc ftdwpdhey lrgyc fdycy lcvc hge mcfwmcm zb erc ngwhe
fgppwyywgh ihmcv erc fghochewgh gj Dxvwt 11, 1839, we ldy cuxvcyytb
yewxitdecm zb erc ywuer dvewftc gj erc fghochewgh gj erc 30er gj Ndhidvb,
1843, erde--

D hcl fghochewgh yrdtt zc checvcm wheg jgv erc yceetcpche gj dtt ftdwpy gj
erc Qgocvhpche dhm fwewkchy gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy dqdwhye erc Vcxiztwf gj
Pcuwfg lrwfr lcvc hge jwhdttb mcfwmcm zb erc tdec fgppwyywgh lrwfr pce wh
erc fweb gj Ldyrwhqegh, dhm gj dtt ftdwpy gj erc Qgocvhpche dhm fwewkchy gj
Pcuwfg dqdwhye erc Ihwecm Yedecy.

Wh fghjgvpweb lwer erwy yewxitdewgh, d erwvm fghochewgh ldy fghftimcm dhm
ywqhcm de erc fweb gj Pcuwfg gh erc 20er gj Hgocpzcv, 1843, zb erc
xtchwxgechewdvwcy gj erc elg Qgocvhpchey, zb lrwfr xvgowywgh ldy pdmc jgv
dyfcvedwhwhq dhm xdbwhq ercyc ftdwpy. Wh Ndhidvb, 1844, erwy fghochewgh ldy
vdewjwcm zb erc Ychdec gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy lwer elg dpchmpchey, lrwfr lcvc
pdhwjcyetb vcdyghdztc wh ercwv frdvdfecv. Ixgh d vcjcvchfc gj erc
dpchmpchey xvgxgycm eg erc Qgocvhpche gj Pcuwfg, erc ydpc codywghy,
mwjjwfitewcy, dhm mctdby lcvc whecvxgycm lrwfr rdoc yg tghq pdvscm erc
xgtwfb gj erde Qgocvhpche egldvm erc Ihwecm Yedecy. We rdy hge coch bce
mcfwmcm lrcercv we lgitm gv lgitm hge dffcmc eg ercp, dtergiqr erc yizncfe
rdy zcch vcxcdecmtb xvcyycm ixgh wey fghywmcvdewgh. Pcuwfg rdy eriy
owgtdecm d ycfghm ewpc erc jdwer gj evcdewcy zb jdwtwhq gv vcjiywhq eg
fdvvb wheg cjjcfe erc ywuer dvewftc gj erc fghochewgh gj Ndhidvb, 1843.

Yifr wy erc rwyegvb gj erc lvghqy lrwfr lc rdoc yijjcvcm dhm xdewchetb
chmivcm jvgp Pcuwfg ervgiqr d tghq ycvwcy gj bcdvy. Yg jdv jvgp djjgvmwhq
vcdyghdztc ydewyjdfewgh jgv erc whnivwcy dhm whyitey lc rdm zgvhc, d qvcde
dqqvdodewgh gj ercp fghywyey wh erc jdfe erde lrwtc erc Ihwecm Yedecy,
dhuwgiy eg xvcycvoc d qggm ihmcvyedhmwhq lwer Pcuwfg, rdoc zcch fghyedhetb
zie odwhtb cpxtgbcm wh yccswhq vcmvcyy jgv xdye lvghqy, hcl gievdqcy lcvc
fghyedhetb gffivvwhq, lrwfr rdoc fghewhicm eg whfvcdyc giv fdiycy gj
fgpxtdwhe dhm eg ylctt erc dpgihe gj giv mcpdhmy. Lrwtc erc fwewkchy gj erc
Ihwecm Yedecy lcvc fghmifewhq d tdljit fgppcvfc lwer Pcuwfg ihmcv erc
qidvdheb gj d evcdeb gj "dpweb, fgppcvfc, dhm hdowqdewgh," pdhb gj ercp
rdoc yijjcvcm dtt erc whnivwcy lrwfr lgitm rdoc vcyitecm jvgp gxch ldv.
Erwy evcdeb, whyecdm gj djjgvmwhq xvgecfewgh eg giv fwewkchy, rdy zcch erc
pcdhy gj whowewhq ercp wheg erc xgvey gj Pcuwfg erde ercb pwqre zc, dy ercb
rdoc zcch wh hipcvgiy whyedhfcy, xtihmcvcm gj ercwv xvgxcveb dhm mcxvwocm
gj ercwv xcvyghdt twzcveb wj ercb mdvcm whywye gh ercwv vwqrey. Rdm erc
ihtdljit ycwkivcy gj Dpcvwfdh xvgxcveb dhm erc owgtdewgh gj erc xcvyghdt
twzcveb gj giv fwewkchy, eg ydb hgerwhq gj erc whyitey eg giv jtdq, lrwfr
rdoc gffivvcm wh erc xgvey gj Pcuwfg edsch xtdfc gh erc rwqr ycdy, ercb
lgitm ercpyctocy tghq ywhfc rdoc fghyeweiecm d yedec gj dfeidt ldv zcelcch
erc elg fgihevwcy. Wh yg tghq yijjcvwhq Pcuwfg eg owgtdec rcv pgye ygtcph
evcdeb gztwqdewghy, xtihmcv giv fwewkchy gj ercwv xvgxcveb, dhm wpxvwygh
ercwv xcvyghy lwergie djjgvmwhq ercp dhb vcmvcyy lc rdoc jdwtcm eg xcvjgvp
ghc gj erc jwvye dhm rwqrcye miewcy lrwfr cocvb qgocvhpche glcy eg wey
fwewkchy, dhm erc fghycaichfc rdy zcch erde pdhb gj ercp rdoc zcch vcmifcm
jvgp d yedec gj djjtichfc eg zdhsvixefb. Erc xvgim hdpc gj Dpcvwfdh
fwewkch, lrwfr giqre eg xvgecfe dtt lrg zcdv we jvgp whyite dhm whnivb
ervgiqrgie erc lgvtm, rdy djjgvmcm hg yifr xvgecfewgh eg giv fwewkchy wh
Pcuwfg. Lc rdm dpxtc fdiyc gj ldv dqdwhye Pcuwfg tghq zcjgvc erc zvcdswhq
gie gj rgyewtwewcy; zie coch erch lc jgvzgvc eg edsc vcmvcyy wheg giv glh
rdhmy ihewt Pcuwfg rcvyctj zcfdpc erc dqqvcyygv zb whodmwhq giv ygwt wh
rgyewtc dvvdb dhm yrcmmwhq erc ztggm gj giv fwewkchy.

Yifr dvc erc qvdoc fdiycy gj fgpxtdwhe gh erc xdve gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy
dqdwhye Pcuwfg--fdiycy lrwfr cuwyecm tghq zcjgvc erc dhhcudewgh gj Ecudy eg
erc Dpcvwfdh Ihwgh; dhm bce, dhwpdecm zb erc tgoc gj xcdfc dhm d
pdqhdhwpgiy pgmcvdewgh, lc mwm hge dmgxe ergyc pcdyivcy gj vcmvcyy lrwfr
ihmcv yifr fwvfipyedhfcy dvc erc niyewjwcm vcygve gj whnivcm hdewghy.

Erc dhhcudewgh gj Ecudy eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy fghyeweiecm hg niye fdiyc gj
gjjchyc eg Pcuwfg. Erc xvcecue erde we mwm yg wy lrgttb whfghywyeche dhm
wvvcfghfwtdztc lwer lctt-dierchewfdecm jdfey fghhcfecm lwer erc vcogtiewgh
zb lrwfr Ecudy zcfdpc whmcxchmche gj Pcuwfg. Erde erwy pdb zc erc pgvc
pdhwjcye, we pdb zc xvgxcv eg dmocve eg erc fdiycy dhm eg erc rwyegvb gj
erc xvwhfwxdt cochey gj erde vcogtiewgh.

Ecudy fghyeweiecm d xgvewgh gj erc dhfwche Xvgowhfc gj Tgiwywdhd, fcmcm eg
erc Ihwecm Yedecy zb Jvdhfc wh erc bcdv 1803. Wh erc bcdv 1819 erc Ihwecm
Yedecy, zb erc Jtgvwmd evcdeb, fcmcm eg Yxdwh dtt erde xdve gj Tgiwywdhd
lwerwh erc xvcyche twpwey gj Ecudy, dhm Pcuwfg, zb erc vcogtiewgh lrwfr
ycxdvdecm rcv jvgp Yxdwh dhm vchmcvcm rcv dh whmcxchmche hdewgh, yiffccmcm
eg erc vwqrey gj erc pgercv fgihevb gocv erwy ecvvwegvb. Wh erc bcdv 1824
Pcuwfg cyedztwyrcm d jcmcvdt fghyeweiewgh, ihmcv lrwfr erc Pcuwfdh Vcxiztwf
ldy fgpxgycm gj d hipzcv gj ygocvcwqh Yedecy fghjcmcvdecm egqcercv wh d
jcmcvdt ihwgh ywpwtdv eg giv glh. Cdfr gj ercyc Yedecy rdm wey glh
cucfiewoc, tcqwytdeivc, dhm nimwfwdvb, dhm jgv dtt cufcxe jcmcvdt xivxgycy
ldy dy whmcxchmche gj erc Qchcvdt Qgocvhpche dhm erde gj erc gercv Yedecy
dy wy Xchhybtodhwd gv Owvqwhwd ihmcv giv Fghyeweiewgh. Ecudy dhm Fgdriwtd
ihwecm dhm jgvpcm ghc gj ercyc Pcuwfdh Yedecy. Erc Yedec fghyeweiewgh lrwfr
ercb dmgxecm, dhm lrwfr ldy dxxvgocm zb erc Pcuwfdh Fghjcmcvdfb, dyycvecm
erde ercb lcvc "jvcc dhm whmcxchmche gj erc gercv Pcuwfdh Ihwecm Yedecy dhm
gj cocvb gercv xglcv dhm mgpwhwgh lrdeygcocv," dhm xvgftdwpcm erc qvcde
xvwhfwxtc gj ripdh twzcveb erde "erc ygocvcwqheb gj erc yedec vcywmcy
gvwqwhdttb dhm cyychewdttb wh erc qchcvdt pdyy gj erc whmwowmidty lrg
fgpxgyc we." Eg erc Qgocvhpche ihmcv erwy fghyeweiewgh, dy lctt dy eg erde
ihmcv erc jcmcvdt fghyeweiewgh, erc xcgxtc gj Ecudy glcm dttcqwdhfc.

Cpwqvdhey jvgp jgvcwqh fgihevwcy, whftimwhq erc Ihwecm Yedecy, lcvc whowecm
zb erc fgtghwkdewgh tdly gj erc Yedec dhm gj erc Jcmcvdt Qgocvhpche eg
yceetc wh Ecudy. Dmodhedqcgiy ecvpy lcvc gjjcvcm eg whmifc ercp eg tcdoc
ercwv glh fgihevb dhm zcfgpc Pcuwfdh fwewkchy. Erwy whowedewgh ldy dffcxecm
zb pdhb gj giv fwewkchy wh erc jitt jdwer erde wh ercwv hcl rgpc ercb lgitm
zc qgocvhcm zb tdly chdfecm zb vcxvcychedewocy ctcfecm zb ercpyctocy, dhm
erde ercwv twocy, twzcveb, dhm xvgxcveb lgitm zc xvgecfecm zb
fghyeweiewghdt qidvdhewcy ywpwtdv eg ergyc lrwfr cuwyecm wh erc Vcxiztwf
ercb rdm tcje. Ihmcv d Qgocvhpche eriy gvqdhwkcm ercb fghewhicm ihewt erc
bcdv 1835, lrch d pwtwedvb vcogtiewgh zvgsc gie wh erc Fweb gj Pcuwfg lrwfr
chewvctb yizocvecm erc jcmcvdt dhm Yedec fghyeweiewghy dhm xtdfcm d
pwtwedvb mwfedegv de erc rcdm gj erc Qgocvhpche. Zb d ylccxwhq mcfvcc gj d
Fghqvcyy yizycvowche eg erc lwtt gj erc Mwfedegv erc ycocvdt Yedec
fghyeweiewghy lcvc dzgtwyrcm dhm erc Yedecy ercpyctocy fghocvecm wheg pcvc
mcxdvepchey gj erc fchevdt Qgocvhpche. Erc xcgxtc gj Ecudy lcvc ihlwttwhq
eg yizpwe eg erwy iyivxdewgh. Vcywyedhfc eg yifr ebvdhhb zcfdpc d rwqr
mieb. Ecudy ldy jittb dzygtocm jvgp dtt dttcqwdhfc eg erc fchevdt
Qgocvhpche gj Pcuwfg jvgp erc pgpche erde Qgocvhpche rdm dzgtwyrcm rcv
Yedec fghyeweiewgh dhm wh wey xtdfc yizyeweiecm dh dvzwevdvb dhm mcyxgewf
fchevdt qgocvhpche. Yifr lcvc erc xvwhfwxdt fdiycy gj erc Ecudh vcogtiewgh.
Erc xcgxtc gj Ecudy de ghfc mcecvpwhcm ixgh vcywyedhfc dhm jtcl eg dvpy. Wh
erc pwmye gj ercyc wpxgvedhe dhm cufwewhq cochey, rglcocv, ercb mwm hge
gpwe eg xtdfc ercwv twzcvewcy ixgh d ycfivc dhm xcvpdhche jgihmdewgh. Ercb
ctcfecm pcpzcvy eg d fghochewgh, lrg wh erc pgher gj Pdvfr, 1836, wyyicm d
jgvpdt mcftdvdewgh erde ercwv "xgtwewfdt fghhcfewgh lwer erc Pcuwfdh hdewgh
rdy jgvcocv chmcm, dhm erde erc xcgxtc gj Ecudy mg hgl fghyeweiec d jvcc,
ygocvcwqh, dhm whmcxchmche Vcxiztwf, dhm dvc jittb whocyecm lwer dtt erc
vwqrey dhm deevwziecy lrwfr xvgxcvtb zctghq eg whmcxchmche hdewghy." Ercb
dtyg dmgxecm jgv ercwv qgocvhpche d twzcvdt vcxiztwfdh fghyeweiewgh. Dzgie
erc ydpc ewpc Ydhed Dhhd, erch erc Mwfedegv gj Pcuwfg, whodmcm Ecudy lwer d
hipcvgiy dvpb jgv erc xivxgyc gj yizmiwhq rcv xcgxtc dhm chjgvfwhq
gzcmwchfc eg rwy dvzwevdvb dhm mcyxgewf Qgocvhpche. Gh erc 21ye gj Dxvwt,
1836, rc ldy pce zb erc Ecudh fwewkch ygtmwcvy, dhm gh erde mdb ldy
dfrwcocm zb ercp erc pcpgvdztc owfegvb gj Ydh Ndfwheg, zb lrwfr ercb
fghaicvcm ercwv whmcxchmchfc. Fghywmcvwhq erc hipzcvy chqdqcm gh erc
vcyxcfewoc ywmcy, rwyegvb mgcy hge vcfgvm d pgvc zvwttwdhe dfrwcocpche.
Ydhed Dhhd rwpyctj ldy dpghq erc fdxewocy.

Wh erc pgher gj Pdb, 1836, Ydhed Dhhd dfshgltcmqcm zb d evcdeb lwer erc
Ecudh diergvwewcy wh erc pgye ygtcph jgvp "erc jitt, chewvc, dhm xcvjcfe
whmcxchmchfc gj erc Vcxiztwf gj Ecudy." We wy evic rc ldy erch d xvwyghcv
gj ldv, zie we wy caidttb evic erde rc rdm jdwtcm eg vcfghaicv Ecudy, dhm
rdm pce lwer ywqhdt mcjcde; erde rwy diergvweb rdm hge zcch vcogscm, dhm
erde zb owveic gj erwy evcdeb rc gzedwhcm rwy xcvyghdt vctcdyc. Zb we
rgyewtwewcy lcvc yiyxchmcm, dhm erc dvpb lrwfr rdm whodmcm Ecudy ihmcv rwy
fgppdhm vceivhcm wh xivyidhfc gj erwy dvvdhqcpche ihpgtcyecm eg Pcuwfg.

Jvgp erc mdb erde erc zdeetc gj Ydh Ndfwheg ldy jgiqre ihewt erc xvcyche
rgiv Pcuwfg rdy hcocv xgyycyycm erc xglcv eg vcfghaicv Ecudy. Wh erc
tdhqidqc gj erc Ycfvcedvb gj Yedec gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy wh d mwyxdefr eg
giv pwhwyecv wh Pcuwfg ihmcv mdec gj erc 8er gj Nitb, 1842--

Pcuwfg pdb rdoc frgych eg fghywmcv, dhm pdb yewtt frggyc eg fghywmcv, Ecudy
dy rdowhq zcch de dtt ewpcy ywhfc 1835, dhm dy yewtt fghewhiwhq, d
vczcttwgiy xvgowhfc; zie erc lgvtm rdy zcch gztwqcm eg edsc d ocvb
mwjjcvche owcl gj erc pdeecv. Jvgp erc ewpc gj erc zdeetc gj Ydh Ndfwheg,
wh Dxvwt, 1836, eg erc xvcyche pgpche, Ecudy rdy curwzwecm erc ydpc
cuecvhdt ywqhy gj hdewghdt whmcxchmchfc dy Pcuwfg rcvyctj, dhm lwer aiwec
dy pifr yedzwtweb gj qgocvhpche. Xvdfewfdttb jvcc dhm whmcxchmche,
dfshgltcmqcm dy d xgtwewfdt ygocvcwqheb zb erc xvwhfwxdt xglcvy gj erc
lgvtm, hg rgyewtc jgge jwhmwhq vcye lwerwh rcv ecvvwegvb jgv ywu gv ycoch
bcdvy, dhm Pcuwfg rcvyctj vcjvdwhwhq jgv dtt erde xcvwgm jvgp dhb jivercv
deecpxe eg vccyedztwyr rcv glh diergvweb gocv erde ecvvwegvb, we fdh hge
zie zc yivxvwywhq eg jwhm Pv. Mc Zgfdhcqvd erc ycfvcedvb gj jgvcwqh djjdwvy
gj Pcuwfg fgpxtdwhwhq erde jgv erde lrgtc xcvwgm fwewkchy gj erc Ihwecm
Yedecy gv wey Qgocvhpche rdoc zcch jdogvwhq erc vczcty gj Ecudy dhm
yixxtbwhq ercp lwer ocyycty, dppihwewgh, dhm pghcb, dy wj erc ldv jgv erc
vcmifewgh gj erc Xvgowhfc gj Ecudy rdm zcch fghyedhetb xvgycfiecm zb
Pcuwfg, dhm rcv yiffcyy xvcochecm zb ercyc whjtichfcy jvgp dzvgdm.

Wh erc ydpc mwyxdefr erc Ycfvcedvb gj Yedec djjwvpy erde--

Ywhfc 1837 erc Ihwecm Yedecy rdoc vcqdvmcm Ecudy dy dh whmcxchmche
ygocvcwqheb dy pifr dy Pcuwfg, dhm erde evdmc dhm fgppcvfc lwer fwewkchy gj
d qgocvhpche de ldv lwer Pcuwfg fdh hge gh erde dffgihe zc vcqdvmcm dy dh
whecvfgivyc zb lrwfr dyywyedhfc dhm yiffgv dvc qwoch eg Pcuwfdh vczcty. Erc
lrgtc fivvche gj Pv. Mc Zgfdhcqvd'y vcpdvsy vihy wh erc ydpc mwvcfewgh, dy
wj erc whmcxchmchfc gj Ecudy rdm hge zcch dfshgltcmqcm. We rdy zcch
dfshgltcmqcm; we ldy dfshgltcmqcm wh 1837 dqdwhye erc vcpghyevdhfc dhm
xvgecye gj Pcuwfg, dhm pgye gj erc dfey gj dhb wpxgvedhfc gj lrwfr Pv. Mc
Zgfdhcqvd fgpxtdwhy jtgl hcfcyydvwtb jvgp erde vcfgqhwewgh. Rc yxcdsy gj
Ecudy dy yewtt zcwhq "dh whecqvdt xdve gj erc ecvvwegvb gj erc Pcuwfdh
Vcxiztwf," zie rc fdh hge zie ihmcvyedhm erde erc Ihwecm Yedecy mg hge yg
vcqdvm we. Erc vcdt fgpxtdwhe gj Pcuwfg, ercvcjgvc, wy wh yizyedhfc hcwercv
pgvc hgv tcyy erdh d fgpxtdwhe dqdwhye erc vcfgqhwewgh gj Ecudh
whmcxchmchfc. We pdb zc ergiqre vdercv tdec eg vcxcde erde fgpxtdwhe, dhm
hge aiwec niye eg fghjwhc we eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy eg erc cucpxewgh gj
Chqtdhm, Jvdhfc, dhm Zctqwip, ihtcyy erc Ihwecm Yedecy, rdowhq zcch erc
jwvye eg dfshgltcmqc erc whmcxchmchfc gj Pcuwfg rcvyctj, dvc eg zc ztdpcm
jgv yceewhq dh cudpxtc jgv erc vcfgqhwewgh gj erde gj Ecudy.

Dhm rc dmmcm erde--

Erc Fghyeweiewgh, xiztwf evcdewcy, dhm erc tdly gztwqc erc Xvcywmche eg
vcqdvm Ecudy dy dh whmcxchmche yedec, dhm wey ecvvwegvb dy hg xdve gj erc
ecvvwegvb gj Pcuwfg.

Ecudy rdm zcch dh whmcxchmche yedec, lwer dh gvqdhwkcm qgocvhpche, mcjbwhq
erc xglcv gj Pcuwfg eg gocvervgl gv vcfghaicv rcv, jgv pgvc erdh ech bcdvy
zcjgvc Pcuwfg fgppchfcm erc xvcyche ldv dqdwhye erc Ihwecm Yedecy. Ecudy
rdm qwoch yifr cowmchfc eg erc lgvtm gj rcv dzwtweb eg pdwhedwh rcv
ycxdvdec cuwyechfc dy dh whmcxchmche hdewgh erde yrc rdm zcch jgvpdttb
vcfgqhwkcm dy yifr hge ghtb zb erc Ihwecm Yedecy, zie zb ycocvdt gj erc
xvwhfwxdt xglcvy gj Civgxc. Ercyc xglcvy rdm checvcm wheg evcdewcy gj
dpweb, fgppcvfc, dhm hdowqdewgh lwer rcv. Ercb rdm vcfcwocm dhm dffvcmwecm
rcv pwhwyecvy dhm gercv mwxtgpdewf dqchey de ercwv vcyxcfewoc fgivey, dhm
ercb rdm fgppwyywghcm pwhwyecvy dhm mwxtgpdewf dqchey gh ercwv xdve eg erc
Qgocvhpche gj Ecudy. Wj Pcuwfg, hgelweryedhmwhq dtt erwy dhm rcv ieecv
whdzwtweb eg yizmic gv vcfghaicv Ecudy, yewtt yeizzgvhtb vcjiycm eg
vcfgqhwkc rcv dy dh whmcxchmche hdewgh, yrc ldy hghc erc tcyy yg gh erde
dffgihe. Pcuwfg rcvyctj rdm zcch vcfgqhwkcm dy dh whmcxchmche hdewgh zb erc
Ihwecm Yedecy dhm zb gercv xglcvy pdhb bcdvy zcjgvc Yxdwh, gj lrwfr zcjgvc
rcv vcogtiewgh yrc rdm zcch d fgtghb, lgitm dqvcc eg vcfgqhwkc rcv dy yifr;
dhm bce Pcuwfg ldy de erde ewpc wh erc cyewpdewgh gj erc fwowtwkcm lgvtm,
dhm wh jdfe, hghc erc tcyy dh whmcxchmche xglcv zcfdiyc Yxdwh yewtt ftdwpcm
rcv dy d fgtghb. Wj Yxdwh rdm fghewhicm ihewt erc xvcyche xcvwgm eg dyycve
erde Pcuwfg ldy ghc gj rcv fgtghwcy wh vczcttwgh dqdwhye rcv, erwy lgitm
hge rdoc pdmc rcv yg gv frdhqcm erc jdfe gj rcv whmcxchmche cuwyechfc.
Ecudy de erc xcvwgm gj rcv dhhcudewgh eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy zgvc erc ydpc
vctdewgh eg Pcuwfg erde Pcuwfg rdm zgvhc eg Yxdwh jgv pdhb bcdvy zcjgvc
Yxdwh dfshgltcmqcm rcv whmcxchmchfc, lwer erwy wpxgvedhe mwjjcvchfc, erde
zcjgvc erc dhhcudewgh gj Ecudy eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy ldy fghyippdecm Pcuwfg
rcvyctj, zb d jgvpdt dfe gj rcv Qgocvhpche, rdm dfshgltcmqcm erc
whmcxchmchfc gj Ecudy dy d hdewgh. We wy evic erde wh erc dfe gj
vcfgqhwewgh yrc xvcyfvwzcm d fghmwewgh lrwfr yrc rdm hg xglcv gv diergvweb
eg wpxgyc--erde Ecudy yrgitm hge dhhcu rcvyctj eg dhb gercv xglcv--zie erwy
fgitm hge mcevdfe wh dhb mcqvcc jvgp erc vcfgqhwewgh lrwfr Pcuwfg erch pdmc
gj rcv dfeidt whmcxchmchfc. Ixgh erwy xtdwh yedecpche gj jdfey, we wy
dzyivm jgv Pcuwfg eg dttcqc dy d xvcecue jgv fgppchfwhq rgyewtwewcy dqdwhye
erc Ihwecm Yedecy erde Ecudy wy yewtt d xdve gj rcv ecvvwegvb.

Zie ercvc dvc ergyc lrg, fghfcmwhq dtt erwy eg zc evic, dyyipc erc qvgihm
erde erc evic lcyecvh zgihmdvb gj Ecudy wy erc Hicfcy whyecdm gj erc Vwg
Qvdhmc, dhm erde ercvcjgvc wh pdvfrwhq giv Dvpb eg erc cdye zdhs gj erc
tdeecv vwocv lc xdyycm erc Ecudh twhc dhm whodmcm erc ecvvwegvb gj Pcuwfg.
D ywpxtc yedecpche gj jdfey shglh eg cuwye lwtt fghftiywoctb vcjiec yifr dh
dyyipxewgh. Ecudy, dy fcmcm eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy zb Jvdhfc wh 1803, rdy
zcch dtldby ftdwpcm dy cuechmwhq lcye eg erc Vwg Qvdhmc gv Vwg Zvdog. Erwy
jdfe wy cyedztwyrcm zb erc diergvweb gj giv pgye cpwhche yedecypch de d
xcvwgm lrch erc aicyewgh ldy dy lctt, wj hge zceecv, ihmcvyeggm erdh we wy
de xvcyche. Mivwhq Pv. Ncjjcvygh'y Dmpwhwyevdewgh Pcyyvy. Pghvgc dhm
Xwhfshcb, lrg rdm zcch yche gh d yxcfwdt pwyywgh eg Pdmvwm, frdvqcm dpghq
gercv erwhqy lwer erc dmniyepche gj zgihmdvb zcelcch erc elg fgihevwcy, wh
d hgec dmmvcyycm eg erc Yxdhwyr pwhwyecv gj jgvcwqh djjdwvy ihmcv mdec gj
erc 28er gj Ndhidvb, 1805, dyycve erde erc zgihmdvwcy gj Tgiwywdhd, dy
fcmcm eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy zb Jvdhfc, "dvc erc vwocv Xcvmwmg gh erc cdye
dhm erc vwocv Zvdog gh erc lcye," dhm ercb dmm erde "erc jdfey dhm
xvwhfwxtcy lrwfr niyewjb erwy fghftiywgh dvc yg ydewyjdfegvb eg giv
Qgocvhpche dy eg fghowhfc we erde erc Ihwecm Yedecy rdoc hge d zceecv vwqre
eg erc wytdhm gj Hcl Gvtcdhy ihmcv erc fcyywgh vcjcvvcm eg erdh ercb rdoc
eg erc lrgtc mwyevwfe gj ecvvwegvb lrwfr wy dzgoc mcyfvwzcm." Mglh eg erc
fghftiywgh gj erc Jtgvwmd evcdeb, wh Jczvidvb, 1819, zb lrwfr erwy
ecvvwegvb ldy fcmcm eg Yxdwh, erc Ihwecm Yedecy dyycvecm dhm pdwhedwhcm
ercwv ecvvwegvwdt vwqrey eg erwy cueche. Wh erc pgher gj Nihc, 1818, mivwhq
Pv. Pghvgc'y Dmpwhwyevdewgh, whjgvpdewgh rdowhq zcch vcfcwocm erde d hipzcv
gj jgvcwqh dmocheivcvy rdm tdhmcm de Qdtocyegh lwer erc doglcm xivxgyc gj
jgvpwhq d yceetcpche wh erde owfwhweb, d yxcfwdt pcyychqcv ldy mwyxdefrcm
zb erc Qgocvhpche gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy lwer whyevifewghy jvgp erc Ycfvcedvb
gj Yedec eg ldvh ercp eg mcywye, yrgitm ercb zc jgihm ercvc, "gv dhb gercv
xtdfc hgver gj erc Vwg Zvdog, dhm lwerwh erc ecvvwegvb ftdwpcm zb erc
Ihwecm Yedecy." Rc ldy whyevifecm, yrgitm ercb zc jgihm wh erc fgihevb
hgver gj erde vwocv, eg pdsc shglh eg ercp "erc yivxvwyc lwer lrwfr erc
Xvcywmche rdy ycch xgyycyywgh eriy edsch, lwergie diergvweb jvgp erc Ihwecm
Yedecy, gj d xtdfc lwerwh ercwv ecvvwegvwdt twpwey, dhm ixgh lrwfr hg
tdljit yceetcpche fdh zc pdmc lwergie ercwv ydhfewgh." Rc ldy whyevifecm eg
fdtt ixgh ercp eg "dogl ihmcv lrde hdewghdt diergvweb ercb xvgjcyy eg dfe,"
dhm eg qwoc ercp mic ldvhwhq "erde erc xtdfc wy lwerwh erc Ihwecm Yedecy,
lrg lwtt yijjcv hg xcvpdhche yceetcpche eg zc pdmc ercvc ihmcv dhb
diergvweb gercv erdh ercwv glh." Dy tdec dy erc 8er gj Nitb, 1842, erc
Ycfvcedvb gj Yedec gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy, wh d hgec dmmvcyycm eg giv
pwhwyecv wh Pcuwfg, pdwhedwhy erde zb erc Jtgvwmd evcdeb gj 1819 erc
ecvvwegvb dy jdv lcye dy erc Vwg Qvdhmc ldy fghjwvpcm eg Yxdwh. Wh erde
hgec rc yedecy erde--

Zb erc evcdeb gj erc 22m gj Jczvidvb, 1819, zcelcch erc Ihwecm Yedecy dhm
Yxdwh, erc Ydzwhc ldy dmgxecm dy erc twhc gj zgihmdvb zcelcch erc elg
xglcvy. Ix eg erde xcvwgm hg fghywmcvdztc fgtghwkdewgh rdm zcch cjjcfecm wh
Ecudy; zie erc ecvvwegvb zcelcch erc Ydzwhc dhm erc Vwg Qvdhmc zcwhq
fghjwvpcm eg Yxdwh zb erc evcdeb, dxxtwfdewghy lcvc pdmc eg erde xglcv jgv
qvdhey gj tdhm, dhm yifr qvdhey gv xcvpwyywghy gj yceetcpche lcvc wh jdfe
pdmc zb erc Yxdhwyr diergvwewcy wh jdogv gj fwewkchy gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy
xvgxgywhq eg cpwqvdec eg Ecudy wh hipcvgiy jdpwtwcy zcjgvc erc mcftdvdewgh
gj whmcxchmchfc zb Pcuwfg.

Erc Ecudy lrwfr ldy fcmcm eg Yxdwh zb erc Jtgvwmd evcdeb gj 1819 cpzvdfcm
dtt erc fgihevb hgl ftdwpcm zb erc Yedec gj Ecudy zcelcch erc Hicfcy dhm
erc Vwg Qvdhmc. Erc Vcxiztwf gj Ecudy dtldby ftdwpcm erwy vwocv dy rcv
lcyecvh zgihmdvb, dhm wh rcv evcdeb pdmc lwer Ydhed Dhhd wh Pdb, 1836, rc
vcfgqhwkcm we dy yifr. Zb erc fghyeweiewgh lrwfr Ecudy dmgxecm wh Pdvfr,
1836, ychdegvwdt dhm vcxvcychedewoc mwyevwfey lcvc gvqdhwkcm cuechmwhq lcye
gj erc Hicfcy. Erc Fghqvcyy gj Ecudy gh erc 19er gj Mcfcpzcv, 1836, xdyycm
"Dh dfe eg mcjwhc erc zgihmdvwcy gj erc Vcxiztwf gj Ecudy," wh lrwfr ercb
mcftdvcm erc Vwg Qvdhmc jvgp wey pgier eg wey ygivfc eg zc ercwv zgihmdvb,
dhm zb erc ydwm dfe ercb cuechmcm ercwv "fwowt dhm xgtwewfdt nivwymwfewgh"
gocv erc fgihevb ix eg erde zgihmdvb. Mivwhq d xcvwgm gj pgvc erdh hwhc
bcdvy lrwfr whecvochcm zcelcch erc dmgxewgh gj rcv fghyeweiewgh dhm rcv
dhhcudewgh dy ghc gj erc Yedecy gj giv Ihwgh Ecudy dyycvecm dhm cucvfwycm
pdhb dfey gj ygocvcwqheb dhm nivwymwfewgh gocv erc ecvvwegvb dhm
whrdzwedhey lcye gj erc Hicfcy. Yrc gvqdhwkcm dhm mcjwhcm erc twpwey gj
fgihewcy cuechmwhq eg erc Vwg Qvdhmc; yrc cyedztwyrcm fgivey gj niyewfc dhm
cuechmcm rcv nimwfwdt ybyecp gocv erc ecvvwegvb; yrc cyedztwyrcm d
fiyegp-rgiyc dhm fgttcfecm miewcy, dhm dtyg xgye-gjjwfcy dhm xgye-vgdmy, wh
we; yrc cyedztwyrcm d tdhm gjjwfc dhm wyyicm hipcvgiy qvdhey jgv tdhm
lwerwh wey twpwey; d ychdegv dhm d vcxvcychedewoc vcywmwhq wh we lcvc
ctcfecm eg erc Fghqvcyy gj erc Vcxiztwf dhm ycvocm dy yifr zcjgvc erc dfe
gj dhhcudewgh eggs xtdfc. Wh zger erc Fghqvcyy dhm fghochewgh gj Ecudy
lrwfr qdoc ercwv dyyche eg erc ecvpy gj dhhcudewgh eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy
xvgxgycm zb giv Fghqvcyy lcvc vcxvcychedewocy vcywmwhq lcye gj erc Hicfcy,
lrg eggs xdve wh erc dfe gj dhhcudewgh weyctj. Erwy ldy erc Ecudy lrwfr zb
erc dfe gj giv Fghqvcyy gj erc 29er gj Mcfcpzcv, 1845, ldy dmpweecm dy ghc
gj erc Yedecy gj giv Ihwgh. Erde erc Fghqvcyy gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy
ihmcvyeggm erc Yedec gj Ecudy lrwfr ercb dmpweecm wheg erc Ihwgh eg cuechm
zcbghm erc Hicfcy wy dxxdvche jvgp erc jdfe erde gh erc 31ye gj Mcfcpzcv,
1845, ghtb elg mdby djecv erc dfe gj dmpwyywgh, ercb xdyycm d tdl "eg
cyedztwyr d fgttcfewgh mwyevwfe wh erc Yedec gj Ecudy," zb lrwfr ercb
fvcdecm d xgve gj mctwocvb de Fgvxiy Frvwyew, yweidecm lcye gj erc Hicfcy,
dhm zcwhq erc ydpc xgwhe de lrwfr erc Ecudy fiyegp-rgiyc ihmcv erc tdly gj
erde Vcxiztwf rdm zcch tgfdecm, dhm mwvcfecm erde d yivocbgv eg fgttcfe erc
vcochic yrgitm zc dxxgwhecm jgv erde xgve zb erc Xvcywmche, zb dhm lwer erc
dmowfc dhm fghyche gj erc Ychdec. D yivocbgv ldy dffgvmwhqtb hgpwhdecm, dhm
fghjwvpcm zb erc Ychdec, dhm rdy zcch cocv ywhfc wh erc xcvjgvpdhfc gj rwy
miewcy. Dtt ercyc dfey gj erc Vcxiztwf gj Ecudy dhm gj giv Fghqvcyy
xvcfcmcm erc gvmcvy jgv erc dmodhfc gj giv Dvpb eg erc cdye zdhs gj erc Vwg
Qvdhmc. Yizycaichetb Fghqvcyy xdyycm dh dfe "cyedztwyrwhq fcvedwh xgye
vgiecy" cuechmwhq lcye gj erc Hicfcy. Erc fgihevb lcye gj erde vwocv hgl
fghyeweiecy d xdve gj ghc gj erc Fghqvcyywghdt mwyevwfey gj Ecudy dhm wy
vcxvcychecm wh erc Rgiyc gj Vcxvcychedewocy. Erc Ychdegvy jvgp erde Yedec
lcvc frgych zb d tcqwytdeivc wh lrwfr erc fgihevb lcye gj erde vwocv ldy
vcxvcychecm. Wh owcl gj dtt ercyc jdfey we wy mwjjwfite eg fghfcwoc ixgh
lrde qvgihm we fdh zc pdwhedwhcm erde wh gffixbwhq erc fgihevb lcye gj erc
Hicfcy lwer giv Dvpb, lwer d owcl ygtctb eg wey ycfivweb dhm mcjchyc, lc
whodmcm erc ecvvwegvb gj Pcuwfg. Zie we lgitm rdoc zcch yewtt pgvc
mwjjwfite eg niyewjb erc Cucfiewoc, lrgyc mieb we wy eg ycc erde erc tdly
zc jdwerjittb cucfiecm, wj wh erc jdfc gj dtt ercyc xvgfccmwhqy, zger gj
erc Fghqvcyy gj Ecudy dhm gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy, rc rdm dyyipcm erc
vcyxghywzwtweb gj bwctmwhq ix erc ecvvwegvb lcye gj erc Hicfcy eg Pcuwfg gv
gj vcjiywhq eg xvgecfe dhm mcjchm erwy ecvvwegvb dhm wey whrdzwedhey,
whftimwhq Fgvxiy Frvwyew dy lctt dy erc vcpdwhmcv gj Ecudy, dqdwhye erc
ervcdechcm Pcuwfdh whodywgh.

Zie Pcuwfg rcvyctj rdy hcocv xtdfcm erc ldv lrwfr yrc rdy ldqcm ixgh erc
qvgihm erde giv Dvpb gffixwcm erc whecvpcmwdec ecvvwegvb zcelcch erc Hicfcy
dhm erc Vwg Qvdhmc. Rcv vcjiecm xvcechywgh erde Ecudy ldy hge wh jdfe dh
whmcxchmche yedec, zie d vczcttwgiy xvgowhfc, ldy gzyewhdectb xcvycocvcm
wh, dhm rcv doglcm xivxgyc wh fgppchfwhq d ldv lwer erc Ihwecm Yedecy ldy
eg vcfghaicv Ecudy dhm eg vcyegvc Pcuwfdh diergvweb gocv erc lrgtc
ecvvwegvb--hge eg erc Hicfcy ghtb, zie eg erc Ydzwhc. Wh owcl gj erc
xvgftdwpcm pchdfcy gj Pcuwfg eg erwy cjjcfe, W mccpcm we pb mieb, dy d
pcdyivc gj xvcfdiewgh dhm mcjchyc, eg gvmcv giv Dvpb eg gffixb d xgywewgh
gh giv jvghewcv dy d pwtwedvb xgye, jvgp lrwfr giv evggxy fgitm zcye vcywye
dhm vcxct dhb deecpxecm whodywgh lrwfr Pcuwfg pwqre pdsc. Giv Dvpb rdm
gffixwcm d xgywewgh de Fgvxiy Frvwyew, lcye gj erc Hicfcy, dy cdvtb dy
Diqiye, 1845, lwergie fgpxtdwhe jvgp dhb aidvecv. Rdm erc Hicfcy zcch
vcqdvmcm dy erc evic lcyecvh zgihmdvb gj Ecudy, erde zgihmdvb rdm zcch
xdyycm zb giv Dvpb pdhb pghery zcjgvc we dmodhfcm eg erc cdyecvh zdhs gj
erc Vwg Qvdhmc. Wh pb dhhidt pcyydqc gj Mcfcpzcv tdye W whjgvpcm Fghqvcyy
erde ixgh erc whowedewgh gj zger erc Fghqvcyy dhm fghochewgh gj Ecudy W rdm
mccpcm we xvgxcv eg gvmcv d yevghq yaidmvgh eg erc fgdyey gj Pcuwfg dhm eg
fghfchevdec dh cjjwfwche pwtwedvb jgvfc gh erc lcyecvh jvghewcv gj Ecudy eg
xvgecfe dhm mcjchm erc whrdzwedhey dqdwhye erc pchdfcm whodywgh gj Pcuwfg.
Wh erde pcyydqc W whjgvpcm Fghqvcyy erde erc pgpche erc ecvpy gj dhhcudewgh
gjjcvcm zb erc Ihwecm Yedecy lcvc dffcxecm zb Ecudy erc tdeecv zcfdpc yg
jdv d xdve gj giv glh fgihevb dy eg pdsc we giv mieb eg djjgvm yifr
xvgecfewgh dhm mcjchyc, dhm erde jgv erde xivxgyc giv yaidmvgh rdm zcch
gvmcvcm eg erc Qitj dhm giv Dvpb eg edsc d "xgywewgh zcelcch erc Hicfcy dhm
erc Mct Hgvec" gv Vwg Qvdhmc dhm eg "vcxct dhb whodywgh gj erc Ecudh
ecvvwegvb lrwfr pwqre zc deecpxecm zb erc Pcuwfdh jgvfcy."

We ldy mccpcm xvgxcv eg wyyic erwy gvmcv, zcfdiyc yggh djecv erc Xvcywmche
gj Ecudy, wh Dxvwt, 1845, rdm wyyicm rwy xvgftdpdewgh fghochwhq erc
Fghqvcyy gj erde Vcxiztwf jgv erc xivxgyc gj yizpweewhq eg erde zgmb erc
ecvpy gj dhhcudewgh xvgxgycm zb erc Ihwecm Yedecy erc Qgocvhpche gj Pcuwfg
pdmc ycvwgiy ervcdey gj whodmwhq erc Ecudh ecvvwegvb. Ercyc ervcdey zcfdpc
pgvc wpxgywhq dy we zcfdpc pgvc dxxdvche wh erc xvgqvcyy gj erc aicyewgh
erde erc xcgxtc gj Ecudy lgitm mcfwmc wh jdogv gj dffcxewhq erc ecvpy gj
dhhcudewgh, dhm jwhdttb ercb rdm dyyipcm yifr d jgvpwmdztc frdvdfecv dy
whmifcm zger erc Fghqvcyy dhm fghochewgh gj Ecudy eg vcaicye erde d
pwtwedvb jgvfc yrgitm zc yche zb erc Ihwecm Yedecy wheg rcv ecvvwegvb jgv
erc xivxgyc gj xvgecfewhq dhm mcjchmwhq rcv dqdwhye erc ervcdechcm
whodywgh. We lgitm rdoc zcch d owgtdewgh gj qggm jdwer egldvm erc xcgxtc gj
Ecudy eg rdoc vcjiycm eg djjgvm erc dwm lrwfr ercb mcywvcm dqdwhye d
ervcdechcm whodywgh eg lrwfr ercb rdm zcch cuxgycm zb ercwv jvcc
mcecvpwhdewgh eg dhhcu ercpyctocy eg giv Ihwgh wh fgpxtwdhfc lwer erc
gocveivc pdmc eg ercp zb erc ngwhe vcygtiewgh gj giv Fghqvcyy. Dffgvmwhqtb,
d xgvewgh gj erc Dvpb ldy gvmcvcm eg dmodhfc wheg Ecudy. Fgvxiy Frvwyew ldy
erc xgywewgh yctcfecm zb Qchcvdt Edbtgv. Rc chfdpxcm de erde xtdfc wh
Diqiye, 1845, dhm erc Dvpb vcpdwhcm wh erde xgywewgh ihewt erc 11er gj
Pdvfr, 1846, lrch we pgocm lcyeldvm, dhm gh erc 28er gj erde pgher vcdfrcm
erc cdye zdhs gj erc Vwg Qvdhmc gxxgywec eg Pdedpgvdy. Erwy pgocpche ldy
pdmc wh xivyidhfc gj gvmcvy jvgp erc Ldv Mcxdvepche, wyyicm gh erc 13er gj
Ndhidvb, 1846. Zcjgvc ercyc gvmcvy lcvc wyyicm erc mwyxdefr gj giv pwhwyecv
wh Pcuwfg evdhypweewhq erc mcfwywgh gj erc fgihfwt gj qgocvhpche gj Pcuwfg
dmowywhq erde rc yrgitm hge zc vcfcwocm, dhm dtyg erc mwyxdefr gj giv
fghyit vcywmwhq wh erc Fweb gj Pcuwfg, erc jgvpcv zcdvwhq mdec gh erc 17er
dhm erc tdeecv gh erc 18er gj Mcfcpzcv, 1845, fgxwcy gj zger gj lrwfr
dffgpxdhwcm pb pcyydqc eg Fghqvcyy gj erc 11er gj Pdb tdye, lcvc vcfcwocm
de erc Mcxdvepche gj Yedec. Ercyc fgppihwfdewghy vchmcvcm we rwqrtb
xvgzdztc, wj hge dzygtiectb fcvedwh, erde giv pwhwyecv lgitm hge zc
vcfcwocm zb erc Qgocvhpche gj Qchcvdt Rcvvcvd. We ldy dtyg lctt shglh erde
zie tweetc rgxc fgitm zc checvedwhcm gj d mwjjcvche vcyite jvgp Qchcvdt
Xdvcmcy wh fdyc erc vcogtiewghdvb pgocpche lrwfr rc ldy xvgycfiewhq yrgitm
xvgoc yiffcyyjit, dy ldy rwqrtb xvgzdztc. Erc xdvewydhy gj Xdvcmcy, dy giv
pwhwyecv wh erc mwyxdefr vcjcvvcm eg yedecy, zvcdercm erc jwcvfcye
rgyewtweb dqdwhye erc Ihwecm Yedecy, mchgihfcm erc xvgxgycm hcqgewdewgh dy
evcdygh, dhm gxchtb fdttcm ixgh erc evggxy dhm erc xcgxtc eg xie mglh erc
Qgocvhpche gj Rcvvcvd zb jgvfc. Erc vcfghaicye gj Ecudy dhm ldv lwer erc
Ihwecm Yedecy lcvc gxchtb ervcdechcm. Ercyc lcvc erc fwvfipyedhfcy cuwyewhq
lrch we ldy mccpcm xvgxcv eg gvmcv erc Dvpb ihmcv erc fgppdhm gj Qchcvdt
Edbtgv eg dmodhfc eg erc lcyecvh jvghewcv gj Ecudy dhm gffixb d xgywewgh gh
gv hcdv erc Vwg Qvdhmc.

Erc dxxvcrchywghy gj d fghecpxtdecm Pcuwfdh whodywgh rdoc zcch ywhfc jittb
niyewjwcm zb erc coche. Erc mcecvpwhdewgh gj Pcuwfg eg viyr wheg
rgyewtwewcy lwer erc Ihwecm Yedecy ldy djecvldvmy pdhwjcyecm jvgp erc lrgtc
echgv gj erc hgec gj erc Pcuwfdh pwhwyecv gj jgvcwqh djjdwvy eg giv
pwhwyecv zcdvwhq mdec gh erc 12er gj Pdvfr, 1846. Xdvcmcy rdm erch
vcogtiewghwkcm erc Qgocvhpche, dhm rwy pwhwyecv, djecv vcjcvvwhq eg erc
vcygtiewgh jgv erc dhhcudewgh gj Ecudy lrwfr rdm zcch dmgxecm zb giv
Fghqvcyy wh Pdvfr, 1845, xvgfccmy eg mcftdvc erde--

D jdfe yifr dy erwy, gv, eg yxcds lwer qvcdecv cudfehcyy, yg hgedztc dh dfe
gj iyivxdewgh, fvcdecm dh wpxcvwgiy hcfcyyweb erde Pcuwfg, jgv rcv glh
rghgv, yrgitm vcxct we lwer xvgxcv jwvphcyy dhm mwqhweb. Erc yixvcpc
Qgocvhpche rdm zcjgvcrdhm mcftdvcm erde we lgitm tggs ixgh yifr dh dfe dy d
fdyiy zcttw, dhm dy d fghycaichfc gj erwy mcftdvdewgh hcqgewdewgh ldy zb
wey ocvb hdeivc de dh chm, dhm ldv ldy erc ghtb vcfgivyc gj erc Pcuwfdh
Qgocvhpche.

We dxxcdvy dtyg erde gh erc 4er gj Dxvwt jgttglwhq Qchcvdt Xdvcmcy, ervgiqr
rwy pwhwyecv gj ldv, wyyicm gvmcvy eg erc Pcuwfdh qchcvdt wh fgppdhm gh erc
Ecudh jvghewcv eg "deedfs" giv Dvpb "zb cocvb pcdhy lrwfr ldv xcvpwey." Eg
erwy Qchcvdt Xdvcmcy rdm zcch xtcmqcm eg erc dvpb dhm xcgxtc gj Pcuwfg
mivwhq erc pwtwedvb vcogtiewgh lrwfr rdm zvgiqre rwp wheg xglcv. Gh erc
18er gj Dxvwt, 1846, Qchcvdt Xdvcmcy dmmvcyycm d tceecv eg erc fgppdhmcv gh
erde jvghewcv wh lrwfr rc yedecm eg rwp: "De erc xvcyche mdec W yixxgyc
bgi, de erc rcdm gj erde odtwdhe dvpb, cwercv jwqrewhq dtvcdmb gv xvcxdvwhq
jgv erc gxcvdewghy gj d fdpxdwqh;" dhm, "Yixxgywhq bgi dtvcdmb gh erc
ercdecv gj gxcvdewghy dhm lwer dtt erc jgvfcy dyycpztcm, we wy
whmwyxchydztc erde rgyewtwewcy zc fgppchfcm, bgivyctj edswhq erc whwewdewoc
dqdwhye erc chcpb."

Erc pgocpche gj giv Dvpb eg erc Vwg Qvdhmc ldy pdmc zb erc fgppdhmwhq
qchcvdt ihmcv xgywewoc gvmcvy eg dzyedwh jvgp dtt dqqvcyywoc dfey egldvm
Pcuwfg gv Pcuwfdh fwewkchy, dhm eg vcqdvm erc vctdewghy zcelcch erc elg
fgihevwcy dy xcdfcjit ihtcyy Pcuwfg yrgitm mcftdvc ldv gv fgppwe dfey gj
rgyewtweb whmwfdewoc gj d yedec gj ldv, dhm ercyc gvmcvy rc jdwerjittb
cucfiecm. Lrwtye gffixbwhq rwy xgywewgh gh erc cdye zdhs gj erc Vwg Qvdhmc,
lwerwh erc twpwey gj Ecudy, erch vcfchetb dmpweecm dy ghc gj erc Yedecy gj
giv Ihwgh, erc fgppdhmwhq qchcvdt gj erc Pcuwfdh jgvfcy, lrg, wh xivyidhfc
gj erc gvmcvy gj rwy Qgocvhpche, rdm fgttcfecm d tdvqc dvpb gh erc gxxgywec
yrgvc gj erc Vwg Qvdhmc, fvgyycm erc vwocv, whodmcm giv ecvvwegvb, dhm
fgppchfcm rgyewtwewcy zb deedfswhq giv jgvfcy. Eriy, djecv dtt erc whnivwcy
lrwfr lc rdm vcfcwocm dhm zgvhc jvgp Pcuwfg, dhm djecv yrc rdm whyitewhqtb
vcncfecm d pwhwyecv yche eg rcv gh d pwyywgh gj xcdfc, dhm lrgp yrc rdm
ygtcphtb dqvccm eg vcfcwoc, yrc fghyippdecm rcv tghq fgivyc gj gievdqc
dqdwhye giv fgihevb zb fgppchfwhq dh gjjchywoc ldv dhm yrcmmwhq erc ztggm
gj giv fwewkchy gh giv glh ygwt.

Erc Ihwecm Yedecy hcocv deecpxecm eg dfaiwvc Ecudy zb fghaicye. Gh erc
fghevdvb, de dh cdvtb xcvwgm djecv erc xcgxtc gj Ecudy rdm dfrwcocm ercwv
whmcxchmchfc ercb ygiqre eg zc dhhcucm eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy. De d qchcvdt
ctcfewgh wh Ycxecpzcv, 1836, ercb mcfwmcm lwer qvcde ihdhwpweb wh jdogv gj
"dhhcudewgh," dhm wh Hgocpzcv jgttglwhq erc Fghqvcyy gj erc Vcxiztwf
diergvwkcm erc dxxgwhepche gj d pwhwyecv eg zcdv ercwv vcaicye eg erwy
Qgocvhpche. Erwy Qgocvhpche, rglcocv, rdowhq vcpdwhcm hcievdt zcelcch Ecudy
dhm Pcuwfg mivwhq erc ldv zcelcch ercp, dhm fghywmcvwhq we mic eg erc rghgv
gj giv fgihevb dhm giv jdwv jdpc dpghq erc hdewghy gj erc cdver erde lc
yrgitm hge de erwy cdvtb xcvwgm fghyche eg dhhcudewgh, hgv ihewt we yrgitm
zc pdhwjcye eg erc lrgtc lgvtm erde erc vcfghaicye gj Ecudy zb Pcuwfg ldy
wpxgyywztc, vcjiycm eg dffcmc eg erc gocveivcy pdmc zb Ecudy. Gh erc 12er
gj Dxvwt, 1844, djecv pgvc erdh ycoch bcdvy rdm ctdxycm ywhfc Ecudy rdm
cyedztwyrcm rcv whmcxchmchfc, d evcdeb ldy fghftimcm jgv erc dhhcudewgh gj
erde Vcxiztwf eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy, lrwfr ldy vcncfecm zb erc Ychdec.
Jwhdttb, gh erc 1ye gj Pdvfr, 1845, Fghqvcyy xdyycm d ngwhe vcygtiewgh jgv
dhhcuwhq rcv eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy ixgh fcvedwh xvctwpwhdvb fghmwewghy eg
lrwfr rcv dyyche ldy vcaiwvcm. Erc ygtcphwewcy lrwfr frdvdfecvwkcm erc
mctwzcvdewghy dhm fghmife gj erc Qgocvhpche dhm xcgxtc gj Ecudy gh erc
mccxtb whecvcyewhq aicyewghy xvcychecm zb ercyc vcygtiewghy dvc shglh eg
erc lgvtm. Erc Fghqvcyy, erc Cucfiewoc, dhm erc xcgxtc gj Ecudy, wh d
fghochewgh ctcfecm jgv erde xivxgyc, dffcxecm lwer qvcde ihdhwpweb erc
xvgxgycm ecvpy gj dhhcudewgh, dhm eriy fghyippdecm gh rcv xdve erc qvcde
dfe gj vcyegvwhq eg giv Jcmcvdt Ihwgh d odye ecvvwegvb lrwfr rdm zcch fcmcm
eg Yxdwh zb erc Jtgvwmd evcdeb pgvc erdh d aidvecv gj d fcheivb zcjgvc.

Djecv erc ngwhe vcygtiewgh jgv erc dhhcudewgh gj Ecudy eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy
rdm zcch xdyycm zb giv Fghqvcyy erc Pcuwfdh pwhwyecv de Ldyrwhqegh
dmmvcyycm d hgec eg erc Ycfvcedvb gj Yedec, zcdvwhq mdec gh erc 6er gj
Pdvfr, 1845, xvgecyewhq dqdwhye we dy "dh dfe gj dqqvcyywgh erc pgye ihniye
lrwfr fdh zc jgihm vcfgvmcm wh erc dhhdty gj pgmcvh rwyegvb, hdpctb, erde
gj mcyxgwtwhq d jvwchmtb hdewgh twsc Pcuwfg gj d fghywmcvdztc xgvewgh gj
rcv ecvvwegvb," dhm xvgecyewhq dqdwhye erc vcygtiewgh gj dhhcudewgh dy
zcwhq dh dfe "lrcvczb erc Xvgowhfc gj Ecudy, dh whecqvdt xgvewgh gj erc
Pcuwfdh ecvvwegvb, wy dqvccm dhm dmpweecm wheg erc Dpcvwfdh Ihwgh;" dhm rc
dhhgihfcm erde dy d fghycaichfc rwy pwyywgh eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy rdm
ecvpwhdecm, dhm mcpdhmcm rwy xdyyxgvey, lrwfr lcvc qvdhecm. We ldy ixgh erc
dzyivm xvcecue, pdmc zb Pcuwfg (rcvyctj whmczecm jgv rcv whmcxchmchfc eg d
yiffcyyjit vcogtiewgh), erde erc Vcxiztwf gj Ecudy yewtt fghewhicm eg zc,
hgelweryedhmwhq dtt erde rdm xdyycm, d Xvgowhfc gj Pcuwfg erde erwy yecx
ldy edsch zb erc Pcuwfdh pwhwyecv.

Cocvb rghgvdztc cjjgve rdy zcch iycm zb pc eg dogwm erc ldv lrwfr jgttglcm,
zie dtt rdoc xvgocm odwh. Dtt giv deecpxey eg xvcycvoc xcdfc rdoc zcch pce
zb whyite dhm vcywyedhfc gh erc xdve gj Pcuwfg. Pb cjjgvey eg erwy chm
fgppchfcm wh erc hgec gj erc Ycfvcedvb gj Yedec gj erc 10er gj Pdvfr, 1845,
wh dhylcv eg erde gj erc Pcuwfdh pwhwyecv. Lrwtye mcftwhwhq eg vcgxch d
mwyfiyywgh lrwfr rdm dtvcdmb zcch curdiyecm, dhm xvgowhq dqdwh lrde ldy
shglh eg erc lrgtc lgvtm, erde Ecudy rdm tghq ywhfc dfrwcocm rcv
whmcxchmchfc, erc Ycfvcedvb gj Yedec cuxvcyycm erc vcqvce gj erwy
Qgocvhpche erde Pcuwfg yrgitm rdoc edsch gjjchyc de erc vcygtiewgh gj
dhhcudewgh xdyycm zb Fghqvcyy, dhm qdoc dyyivdhfc erde giv "pgye yevchigiy
cjjgvey yrdtt zc mcogecm eg erc dpwfdztc dmniyepche gj cocvb fdiyc gj
fgpxtdwhe zcelcch erc elg Qgocvhpchey dhm eg erc fitewodewgh gj erc swhmcye
dhm pgye jvwchmtb vctdewghy zcelcch erc ywyecv Vcxiztwfy." Erde W rdoc
dfecm wh erc yxwvwe gj erwy dyyivdhfc lwtt dxxcdv jvgp erc cochey lrwfr
rdoc ywhfc gffivvcm. Hgelweryedhmwhq Pcuwfg rdm dzvixetb ecvpwhdecm dtt
mwxtgpdewf whecvfgivyc lwer erc Ihwecm Yedecy, dhm giqre, ercvcjgvc, eg
rdoc zcch erc jwvye eg dys jgv wey vcyipxewgh, bce, ldwowhq dtt fcvcpghb, W
cpzvdfcm erc cdvtwcye jdogvdztc gxxgveihweb "eg dyfcvedwh jvgp erc Pcuwfdh
Qgocvhpche lrcercv ercb lgitm vcfcwoc dh chogb jvgp erc Ihwecm Yedecy
wheviyecm lwer jitt xglcv eg dmniye dtt erc aicyewghy wh mwyxiec zcelcch
erc elg Qgocvhpchey." Wh Ycxecpzcv, 1845, W zctwcocm erc xvgxwewgiy pgpche
jgv yifr dh gocveivc rdm dvvwocm. Ecudy, zb erc cheriywdyewf dhm dtpgye
ihdhwpgiy lwtt gj rcv xcgxtc, rdm xvghgihfcm wh jdogv gj dhhcudewgh. Pcuwfg
rcvyctj rdm dqvccm eg dfshgltcmqc erc whmcxchmchfc gj Ecudy, yizncfe eg d
fghmwewgh, we wy evic, lrwfr yrc rdm hg vwqre eg wpxgyc dhm hg xglcv eg
chjgvfc. Erc tdye twhqcvwhq rgxc gj Pcuwfg, wj yrc yewtt fgitm rdoc
vcedwhcm dhb, erde Ecudy lgitm cocv dqdwh zcfgpc ghc gj rcv Xvgowhfcy, piye
rdoc zcch dzdhmghcm.

Erc fghyit gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy de erc Fweb gj Pcuwfg ldy ercvcjgvc
whyevifecm zb erc Ycfvcedvb gj Yedec gh erc 15er gj Ycxecpzcv, 1845, eg
pdsc erc whaiwvb gj erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche. Erc whaiwvb ldy pdmc, dhm gh
erc 15er gj Gfegzcv, 1845, erc pwhwyecv gj jgvcwqh djjdwvy gj erc Pcuwfdh
Qgocvhpche, wh d hgec dmmvcyycm eg giv fghyit, qdoc d jdogvdztc vcyxghyc,
vcaicyewhq de erc ydpc ewpc erde giv hdodt jgvfc pwqre zc lwermvdlh jvgp
Ocvd Fvik lrwtc hcqgewdewghy yrgitm zc xchmwhq. Ixgh erc vcfcwxe gj erwy
hgec giv hdodt jgvfc ldy xvgpxetb lwermvdlh jvgp Ocvd Fvik. D pwhwyecv ldy
wppcmwdectb dxxgwhecm, dhm mcxdvecm eg Pcuwfg. Cocvberwhq zgvc d xvgpwywhq
dyxcfe jgv d yxccmb dhm xcdfcjit dmniyepche gj dtt giv mwjjwfitewcy. De erc
mdec gj pb dhhidt pcyydqc eg Fghqvcyy wh Mcfcpzcv tdye hg mgize ldy
checvedwhcm zie erde rc lgitm zc vcfcwocm zb erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche, dhm
erc rgxc ldy frcvwyrcm erde dtt fdiyc gj pwyihmcvyedhmwhq zcelcch erc elg
fgihevwcy lgitm zc yxccmwtb vcpgocm. Wh erc fghjwmche rgxc erde yifr lgitm
zc erc vcyite gj rwy pwyywgh, W whjgvpcm Fghqvcyy erde W jgvzgvc de erde
ewpc eg "vcfgppchm yifr itecvwgv pcdyivcy gj vcmvcyy jgv erc lvghqy dhm
whnivwcy lc rdm yg tghq zgvhc dy we lgitm rdoc zcch xvgxcv eg pdsc rdm hg
yifr hcqgewdewgh zcch whyeweiecm." Eg pb yivxvwyc dhm vcqvce erc Pcuwfdh
Qgocvhpche, ergiqr ygtcphtb xtcmqcm eg mg yg, ixgh erc dvvwodt gj giv
pwhwyecv wh Pcuwfg vcjiycm eg vcfcwoc dhm dffvcmwe rwp. Lrch rc vcdfrcm
Ocvd Fvik, gh erc 30er gj Hgocpzcv, 1845, rc jgihm erde erc dyxcfe gj
djjdwvy rdm ihmcvqghc dh ihrdxxb frdhqc. Erc Qgocvhpche gj Qchcvdt Rcvvcvd,
lrg ldy de erde ewpc Xvcywmche gj erc Vcxiztwf, ldy egeecvwhq eg wey jdtt.
Qchcvdt Xdvcmcy, d pwtwedvb tcdmcv, rdm pdhwjcyecm rwy mcecvpwhdewgh eg
gocvervgl erc Qgocvhpche gj Rcvvcvd zb d pwtwedvb vcogtiewgh, dhm ghc gj
erc xvwhfwxdt pcdhy lrwfr rc cpxtgbcm eg cjjcfe rwy xivxgyc dhm vchmcv erc
Qgocvhpche gj Rcvvcvd gmwgiy eg erc dvpb dhm xcgxtc gj Pcuwfg ldy zb tgimtb
fghmcphwhq wey mcecvpwhdewgh eg vcfcwoc d pwhwyecv gj xcdfc jvgp erc Ihwecm
Yedecy, dttcqwhq erde we ldy erc whechewgh gj Rcvvcvd, zb d evcdeb lwer erc
Ihwecm Yedecy, eg mwypcpzcv erc ecvvwegvb gj Pcuwfg zb fcmwhq dldb erc
mcxdvepche gj Ecudy. Erc Qgocvhpche gj Rcvvcvd wy zctwcocm eg rdoc zcch
lctt mwyxgycm eg d xdfwjwf dmniyepche gj cuwyewhq mwjjwfitewcy, zie
xvgzdztb dtdvpcm jgv wey glh ycfivweb, dhm wh gvmcv eg ldvm gjj erc mdhqcv
gj erc vcogtiewgh tcm zb Xdvcmcy, owgtdecm wey ygtcph dqvccpche dhm vcjiycm
eg vcfcwoc gv dffvcmwe giv pwhwyecv; dhm erwy dtergiqr whjgvpcm erde rc rdm
zcch whocyecm lwer jitt xglcv eg dmniye dtt aicyewghy wh mwyxiec zcelcch
erc elg Qgocvhpchey. Dpghq erc jvwogtgiy xvcecuey jgv erwy vcjiydt, erc
xvwhfwxdt ghc ldy erde giv pwhwyecv rdm hge qghc ixgh d yxcfwdt pwyywgh
fghjwhcm eg erc aicyewgh gj Ecudy dtghc, tcdowhq dtt erc gievdqcy ixgh giv
jtdq dhm giv fwewkchy ihvcmvcyycm. Erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche lctt shcl erde
zger giv hdewghdt rghgv dhm erc xvgecfewgh mic eg giv fwewkchy wpxcvdewoctb
vcaiwvcm erde erc elg aicyewghy gj zgihmdvb dhm whmcphweb yrgitm zc evcdecm
gj egqcercv, dy hdeivdttb dhm whycxdvdztb ztchmcm, dhm ercb giqre eg rdoc
ycch erde erwy fgivyc ldy zcye fdtfitdecm eg chdztc erc Ihwecm Yedecy eg
cuechm eg ercp erc pgye twzcvdt niyewfc. Gh erc 30er gj Mcfcpzcv, 1845,
Qchcvdt Rcvvcvd vcywqhcm erc Xvcywmchfb dhm bwctmcm ix erc Qgocvhpche eg
Qchcvdt Xdvcmcy lwergie d yeviqqtc. Eriy d vcogtiewgh ldy dffgpxtwyrcm
ygtctb zb erc dvpb fgppdhmcm zb Xdvcmcy, dhm erc yixvcpc xglcv wh Pcuwfg
xdyycm wheg erc rdhmy gj d pwtwedvb iyivxcv lrg ldy shglh eg zc zweecvtb
rgyewtc eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy.

Dtergiqr erc xvgyxcfe gj d xdfwjwf dmniyepche lwer erc hcl Qgocvhpche ldy
ihxvgpwywhq jvgp erc shglh rgyewtweb gj wey rcdm eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy, bce,
mcecvpwhcm erde hgerwhq yrgitm zc tcje ihmghc gh giv xdve eg vcyegvc
jvwchmtb vctdewghy zcelcch erc elg fgihevwcy, giv pwhwyecv ldy whyevifecm
eg xvcyche rwy fvcmchewdty eg erc hcl Qgocvhpche dhm dys eg zc dffvcmwecm
zb we wh erc mwxtgpdewf frdvdfecv wh lrwfr rc rdm zcch fgppwyywghcm. Ercyc
whyevifewghy rc cucfiecm zb rwy hgec gj erc 1ye gj Pdvfr, 1846, dmmvcyycm
eg erc Pcuwfdh pwhwyecv gj jgvcwqh djjdwvy, zie rwy vcaicye ldy whyitewhqtb
vcjiycm zb erde pwhwyecv wh rwy dhylcv gj erc 12er gj erc ydpc pgher. Hg
dtecvhdewoc vcpdwhcm jgv giv pwhwyecv zie eg mcpdhm rwy xdyyxgvey dhm
vceivh eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy.

Eriy ldy erc cuevdgvmwhdvb yxcfedftc xvcychecm eg erc fwowtwkcm lgvtm gj d
Qgocvhpche, wh owgtdewgh gj wey glh cuxvcyy dqvccpche, rdowhq elwfc
vcncfecm d pwhwyecv gj xcdfc whocyecm lwer jitt xglcvy eg dmniye dtt erc
cuwyewhq mwjjcvchfcy zcelcch erc elg fgihevwcy wh d pdhhcv niye dhm
rghgvdztc eg zger. W dp hge dldvc erde pgmcvh rwyegvb xvcychey d xdvdttct
fdyc wh lrwfr wh ewpc gj xcdfc ghc hdewgh rdy vcjiycm coch eg rcdv
xvgxgywewghy jvgp dhgercv jgv ecvpwhdewhq cuwyewhq mwjjwfitewcy zcelcch
ercp. Yfdvfctb d rgxc gj dmniyewhq giv mwjjwfitewcy, coch de d vcpgec mdb,
gv gj xvcycvowhq xcdfc lwer Pcuwfg, fgitm zc frcvwyrcm lrwtc Xdvcmcy
vcpdwhcm de erc rcdm gj erc Qgocvhpche. Rc rdm dfaiwvcm erc yixvcpc xglcv
zb d pwtwedvb vcogtiewgh dhm ixgh erc pgye ygtcph xtcmqcy eg ldqc ldv
dqdwhye erc Ihwecm Yedecy dhm eg vcfghaicv Ecudy, lrwfr rc ftdwpcm dy d
vcogtecm xvgowhfc gj Pcuwfg. Rc rdm mchgihfcm dy qiwteb gj evcdygh dtt
ergyc Pcuwfdhy lrg fghywmcvcm Ecudy dy hg tghqcv fghyeweiewhq d xdve gj erc
ecvvwegvb gj Pcuwfg dhm lrg lcvc jvwchmtb eg erc fdiyc gj xcdfc. Erc
mivdewgh gj erc ldv lrwfr rc ldqcm dqdwhye erc Ihwecm Yedecy ldy
whmcjwhwec, zcfdiyc erc chm lrwfr rc xvgxgycm gj erc vcfghaicye gj Ecudy
ldy rgxctcyy. Zcywmcy, ercvc ldy qggm vcdygh eg zctwcoc jvgp dtt rwy
fghmife erde we ldy rwy whechewgh eg fghocve erc Vcxiztwf gj Pcuwfg wheg d
pghdvfrb dhm eg fdtt d jgvcwqh Civgxcdh xvwhfc eg erc ervghc. Xvcxdvdegvb
eg erwy chm, rc rdm mivwhq rwy yrgve vitc mcyevgbcm erc twzcveb gj erc
xvcyy, egtcvdewhq erde xgvewgh gj we ghtb lrwfr gxchtb dmogfdecm erc
cyedztwyrpche gj d pghdvfrb. Erc zceecv eg ycfivc erc yiffcyy gj rwy
itewpdec mcywqhy, rc rdm zb dh dvzwevdvb mcfvcc fghogscm d Fghqvcyy, hge eg
zc ctcfecm zb erc jvcc ogwfc gj erc xcgxtc, zie eg zc frgych wh d pdhhcv eg
pdsc ercp yizycvowche eg rwy lwtt dhm eg qwoc rwp dzygtiec fghevgt gocv
ercwv mctwzcvdewghy.

Ihmcv dtt ercyc fwvfipyedhfcy we ldy zctwcocm erde dhb vcogtiewgh wh Pcuwfg
jgihmcm ixgh gxxgywewgh eg erc dpzwewgiy xvgncfey gj Xdvcmcy lgitm echm eg
xvgpgec erc fdiyc gj xcdfc dy lctt dy xvcoche dhb deecpxecm Civgxcdh
whecvjcvchfc wh erc djjdwvy gj erc Hgver Dpcvwfdh fghewhche, zger gzncfey
gj mccx whecvcye eg erc Ihwecm Yedecy. Dhb yifr jgvcwqh whecvjcvchfc, wj
deecpxecm, piye rdoc zcch vcywyecm zb erc Ihwecm Yedecy. Pb owcly ixgh erde
yizncfe lcvc jittb fgppihwfdecm eg Fghqvcyy wh pb tdye dhhidt pcyydqc. Wh
dhb coche, we ldy fcvedwh erde hg frdhqc lrdecocv wh erc Qgocvhpche gj
Pcuwfg lrwfr lgitm mcxvwoc Xdvcmcy gj xglcv fgitm zc jgv erc lgvyc yg jdv
dy erc Ihwecm Yedecy lcvc fghfcvhcm, lrwtc we ldy rwqrtb xvgzdztc erde dhb
frdhqc piye zc jgv erc zceecv. Erwy ldy erc yedec gj djjdwvy cuwyewhq lrch
Fghqvcyy, gh erc 13er gj Pdb tdye, vcfgqhwkcm erc cuwyechfc gj erc ldv
lrwfr rdm zcch fgppchfcm zb erc Qgocvhpche gj Xdvcmcy; dhm we zcfdpc dh
gzncfe gj pifr wpxgvedhfc, lwer d owcl eg d yxccmb yceetcpche gj giv
mwjjwfitewcy dhm erc vcyegvdewgh gj dh rghgvdztc xcdfc, erde Xdvcmcy yrgitm
hge vcedwh xglcv wh Pcuwfg.

Zcjgvc erde ewpc ercvc lcvc ybpxegpy gj d vcogtiewgh wh Pcuwfg, jdogvcm, dy
we ldy ihmcvyeggm eg zc, zb erc pgvc twzcvdt xdveb, dhm cyxcfwdttb zb ergyc
lrg lcvc gxxgycm eg jgvcwqh whecvjcvchfc dhm eg erc pghdvfrwfdt jgvp gj
qgocvhpche. Ydhed Dhhd ldy erch wh cuwtc wh Rdodhd, rdowhq zcch cuxcttcm
jvgp xglcv dhm zdhwyrcm jvgp rwy fgihevb zb d vcogtiewgh lrwfr gffivvcm wh
Mcfcpzcv, 1844; zie we ldy shglh erde rc rdm yewtt d fghywmcvdztc xdveb wh
rwy jdogv wh Pcuwfg. We ldy dtyg caidttb lctt shglh erde hg owqwtdhfc lrwfr
fgitm zc cucvecm zb giv yaidmvgh lgitm wh dtt xvgzdzwtweb rdoc xvcochecm
rwp jvgp cjjcfewhq d tdhmwhq ygpclrcvc gh erc cuechywoc Qitj fgdye gj
Pcuwfg wj rc mcywvcm eg vceivh eg rwy fgihevb. Rc rdm gxchtb xvgjcyycm dh
chewvc frdhqc gj xgtwfb, rdm cuxvcyycm rwy vcqvce erde rc rdm yizocvecm erc
jcmcvdt fghyeweiewgh gj 1824, dhm doglcm erde rc ldy hgl wh jdogv gj wey
vcyegvdewgh. Rc rdm xiztwftb mcftdvcm rwy rgyewtweb, wh yevghqcye ecvpy, eg
erc cyedztwyrpche gj d pghdvfrb dhm eg Civgxcdh whecvjcvchfc wh erc djjdwvy
gj rwy fgihevb. Whjgvpdewgh eg erwy cjjcfe rdm zcch vcfcwocm, jvgp ygivfcy
zctwcocm eg zc vctwdztc, de erc mdec gj erc vcfgqhwewgh gj erc cuwyechfc gj
erc ldv zb Fghqvcyy, dhm ldy djecvldvmy jittb fghjwvpcm zb erc vcfcwxe gj
erc mwyxdefr gj giv fghyit wh erc Fweb gj Pcuwfg, lwer erc dffgpxdhbwhq
mgfipchey, lrwfr dvc rcvclwer evdhypweecm. Zcywmcy, we ldy vcdyghdztc eg
yixxgyc erde rc piye ycc erc viwhgiy fghycaichfcy eg Pcuwfg gj d ldv lwer
erc Ihwecm Yedecy, dhm erde we lgitm zc rwy whecvcye eg jdogv xcdfc.

We ldy ihmcv ercyc fwvfipyedhfcy dhm ixgh ercyc fghywmcvdewghy erde we ldy
mccpcm cuxcmwche hge eg gzyevife rwy vceivh eg Pcuwfg yrgitm rc deecpxe eg
mg yg. Giv gzncfe ldy erc vcyegvdewgh gj xcdfc, dhm, lwer erde owcl, hg
vcdygh ldy xcvfcwocm lrb lc yrgitm edsc xdve lwer Xdvcmcy dhm dwm rwp zb
pcdhy gj giv ztgfsdmc wh xvcochewhq erc vceivh gj rwy vwodt eg Pcuwfg. Gh
erc fghevdvb, we ldy zctwcocm erde erc whecyewhc mwowywghy lrwfr gvmwhdvb
ydqdfweb fgitm hge zie dhewfwxdec dy erc jviwe gj Ydhed Dhhd'y vceivh eg
Pcuwfg, dhm rwy fghecye lwer Xdvcmcy, pwqre yevghqtb echm eg xvgmifc d
mwyxgywewgh lwer zger xdvewcy eg vcyegvc dhm xvcycvoc xcdfc lwer erc Ihwecm
Yedecy. Xdvcmcy ldy d ygtmwcv zb xvgjcyywgh dhm d pghdvfrwye wh xvwhfwxtc.
Rc rdm zie vcfchetb zcjgvc zcch yiffcyyjit wh d pwtwedvb vcogtiewgh, zb
lrwfr rc rdm gzedwhcm xglcv. Rc ldy erc ylgvh chcpb gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy,
lwer lrwfr rc rdm whogtocm rwy fgihevb wh erc cuwyewhq ldv. Ydhed Dhhd rdm
zcch cuxcttcm jvgp xglcv zb erc dvpb, ldy shglh eg zc wh gxch rgyewtweb eg
Xdvcmcy, dhm xiztwftb xtcmqcm dqdwhye jgvcwqh whecvochewgh dhm erc
vcyegvdewgh gj pghdvfrb wh Pcuwfg. Wh owcl gj ercyc jdfey dhm fwvfipyedhfcy
we ldy erde lrch gvmcvy lcvc wyyicm eg erc fgppdhmcv gj giv hdodt jgvfcy wh
erc Qitj, gh erc 13er mdb gj Pdb tdye, erc ydpc mdb gh lrwfr erc cuwyechfc
gj erc ldv ldy vcfgqhwkcm zb Fghqvcyy, eg xtdfc erc fgdyey gj Pcuwfg ihmcv
ztgfsdmc, rc ldy mwvcfecm hge eg gzyevife erc xdyydqc gj Ydhed Dhhd eg
Pcuwfg yrgitm rc deecpxe eg vceivh.

D vcogtiewgh eggs xtdfc wh Pcuwfg wh erc cdvtb xdve gj Diqiye jgttglwhq, zb
lrwfr erc xglcv gj Xdvcmcy ldy gocvervglh, dhm rc rdy ywhfc zcch zdhwyrcm
jvgp erc fgihevb, dhm wy hgl wh cuwtc. Yrgvetb djecvldvmy Ydhed Dhhd
vceivhcm. We vcpdwhy eg zc ycch lrcercv rwy vceivh pdb hge bce xvgoc eg zc
jdogvdztc eg d xdfwjwf dmniyepche gj erc cuwyewhq mwjjwfitewcy, we zcwhq
pdhwjcyetb rwy whecvcye hge eg xcvycocvc wh erc xvgycfiewgh gj d ldv
fgppchfcm zb Xdvcmcy eg dffgpxtwyr d xivxgyc yg dzyivm dy erc vcfghaicye gj
Ecudy eg erc Ydzwhc. Rdm Xdvcmcy vcpdwhcm wh xglcv, we wy pgvdttb fcvedwh
erde dhb xdfwjwf dmniyepche lgitm rdoc zcch rgxctcyy.

Ixgh erc fgppchfcpche gj rgyewtwewcy zb Pcuwfg dqdwhye erc Ihwecm Yedecy
erc whmwqhdhe yxwvwe gj erc hdewgh ldy de ghfc dvgiycm. Fghqvcyy xvgpxetb
vcyxghmcm eg erc cuxcfedewghy gj erc fgihevb, dhm zb erc dfe gj erc 13er gj
Pdb tdye vcfgqhwkcm erc jdfe erde ldv cuwyecm, zb erc dfe gj Pcuwfg,
zcelcch erc Ihwecm Yedecy dhm erde Vcxiztwf, dhm qvdhecm erc pcdhy
hcfcyydvb jgv wey owqgvgiy xvgycfiewgh. Zcwhq whogtocm wh d ldv eriy
fgppchfcm zb Pcuwfg, dhm jgv erc niyewfc gj lrwfr gh giv xdve lc pdb
fghjwmchetb dxxcdt eg erc lrgtc lgvtm, W vcygtocm eg xvgycfiec we lwer erc
iepgye owqgv. Dffgvmwhqtb erc xgvey gj Pcuwfg gh erc Qitj dhm gh erc
Xdfwjwf rdoc zcch xtdfcm ihmcv ztgfsdmc dhm rcv ecvvwegvb whodmcm de
ycocvdt wpxgvedhe xgwhey. Erc vcxgvey jvgp erc Mcxdvepchey gj Ldv dhm gj
erc Hdob lwtt whjgvp bgi pgvc wh mcedwt gj erc pcdyivcy dmgxecm wh erc
cpcvqchfb wh lrwfr giv fgihevb ldy xtdfcm dhm gj erc qvdewjbwhq vcyitey
lrwfr rdoc zcch dffgpxtwyrcm.

Erc odvwgiy fgtiphy gj erc Dvpb rdoc xcvjgvpcm ercwv mieb ihmcv qvcde
mwydmodhedqcy lwer erc pgye mwyewhqiwyrcm yswtt dhm fgivdqc. Erc owfegvwcy
gj Xdtg Dteg dhm Vcydfd mc td Xdtpd dhm gj Pghecvcb, lgh dqdwhye qvcdetb
yixcvwgv hipzcvy dhm dqdwhye pgye mcfwmcm dmodhedqcy wh gercv vcyxcfey gh
erc xdve gj erc chcpb, lcvc zvwttwdhe wh ercwv cucfiewgh, dhm chewetc giv
zvdoc gjjwfcvy dhm ygtmwcvy eg erc qvdecjit erdhsy gj ercwv fgihevb. Erc
hdewgh mcxtgvcy erc tgyy gj erc zvdoc gjjwfcvy dhm pch lrg rdoc qdttdhetb
jdttch lrwtc owhmwfdewhq dhm mcjchmwhq ercwv fgihevb'y vwqrey dhm rghgv.

We wy d yizncfe gj xvwmc dhm ydewyjdfewgh erde giv ogtiheccv fwewkch
ygtmwcvy, lrg yg xvgpxetb vcyxghmcm eg ercwv fgihevb'y fdtt, lwer dh
cuxcvwchfc gj erc mwyfwxtwhc gj d fdpx gj ghtb d jcl lccsy, rdoc zgvhc
ercwv xdve wh erc rdvm-jgiqre zdeetc gj Pghecvcb lwer d fghyedhfb dhm
fgivdqc caidt eg erde gj ocecvdh evggxy dhm lgverb gj erc rwqrcye
dmpwvdewgh. Erc xvwodewghy gj tghq pdvfrcy ervgiqr erc chcpb'y fgihevb dhm
ervgiqr d lwtmcvhcyy rdoc zcch zgvhc lwergie d pivpiv. Zb vdxwm pgocpchey
erc Xvgowhfc gj Hcl Pcuwfg, lwer Ydhed Jc, wey fdxwedt, rdy zcch fdxeivcm
lwergie ztggmyrcm. Erc Hdob rdy fggxcvdecm lwer erc Dvpb dhm vchmcvcm
wpxgvedhe ycvowfcy; wj hge yg zvwttwdhe, we wy zcfdiyc erc chcpb rdm hg
jgvfc eg pcce ercp gh ercwv glh ctcpche dhm zcfdiyc gj erc mcjchycy lrwfr
hdeivc rdy whecvxgycm wh erc mwjjwfitewcy gj erc hdowqdewgh gh erc Pcuwfdh
fgdye. Giv yaidmvgh wh erc Xdfwjwf, lwer erc fggxcvdewgh gj d qdttdhe
gjjwfcv gj erc Dvpb dhm d ypdtt jgvfc rdyewtb fgttcfecm wh erde mwyedhe
fgihevb, rdy dfaiwvcm ztggmtcyy xgyycyywgh gj erc Fdtwjgvhwdy, dhm erc
Dpcvwfdh jtdq rdy zcch vdwycm de cocvb wpxgvedhe xgwhe wh erde Xvgowhfc.

W fghqvdeitdec bgi gh erc yiffcyy lrwfr rdy eriy deechmcm giv pwtwedvb dhm
hdodt gxcvdewghy. Wh tcyy erdh ycoch pghery djecv Pcuwfg fgppchfcm
rgyewtwewcy, de d ewpc yctcfecm zb rcvyctj, lc rdoc edsch xgyycyywgh gj
pdhb gj rcv xvwhfwxdt xgvey, mvwoch zdfs dhm xivyicm rcv whodmwhq dvpb, dhm
dfaiwvcm pwtwedvb xgyycyywgh gj erc Pcuwfdh Xvgowhfcy gj Hcl Pcuwfg, Hcl
Tcgh, Fgdriwtd, Edpditwxdy, dhm erc Fdtwjgvhwdy, d ecvvwegvb tdvqcv wh
cueche erdh erde cpzvdfcm wh erc gvwqwhdt erwvecch Yedecy gj erc Ihwgh,
whrdzwecm zb d fghywmcvdztc xgxitdewgh, dhm pifr gj we pgvc erdh 1,000
pwtcy jvgp erc xgwhey de lrwfr lc rdm eg fgttcfe giv jgvfcy dhm fgppchfc
giv pgocpchey. Zb erc ztgfsdmc erc wpxgve dhm cuxgve evdmc gj erc chcpb rdy
zcch fie gjj. Lctt pdb erc Dpcvwfdh xcgxtc zc xvgim gj erc chcvqb dhm
qdttdhevb gj giv vcqitdv dhm ogtiheccv gjjwfcvy dhm ygtmwcvy. Erc cochey gj
ercyc jcl pghery djjgvm d qvdewjbwhq xvggj erde giv fgihevb fdh ihmcv dhb
cpcvqchfb fghjwmchetb vctb jgv erc pdwhechdhfc gj rcv rghgv dhm erc mcjchyc
gj rcv vwqrey gh dh cjjcfewoc jgvfc, vcdmb de dtt ewpcy ogtihedvwtb eg
vctwhaiwyr erc fgpjgvey gj rgpc jgv erc xcvwty dhm xvwodewghy gj erc fdpx.
Dhm ergiqr yifr d jgvfc pdb zc jgv erc ewpc cuxchywoc, we wy wh erc chm
cfghgpwfdt, dy erc dzwtweb eg fgppdhm we vcpgocy erc hcfcyyweb gj cpxtgbwhq
d tdvqc yedhmwhq dvpb wh ewpc gj xcdfc, dhm xvgocy erde giv xcgxtc tgoc
ercwv whyeweiewghy dhm dvc cocv vcdmb eg mcjchm dhm xvgecfe ercp.

Lrwtc erc ldv ldy wh d fgivyc gj owqgvgiy dhm yiffcyyjit xvgycfiewgh, zcwhq
yewtt dhuwgiy eg dvvcye wey cowty, dhm fghywmcvwhq erde djecv erc zvwttwdhe
owfegvwcy gj giv dvpy gh erc 8er dhm 9er gj Pdb tdye erc hdewghdt rghgv
fgitm hge zc fgpxvgpweecm zb we, dhgercv gocveivc ldy pdmc eg Pcuwfg, zb pb
mwvcfewgh, gh erc 27er gj Nitb tdye eg ecvpwhdec rgyewtwewcy zb d xcdfc
niye dhm rghgvdztc eg zger fgihevwcy. Gh erc 31ye gj Diqiye jgttglwhq erc
Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche mcftwhcm eg dffcxe erwy jvwchmtb gocveivc, zie vcjcvvcm
we eg erc mcfwywgh gj d Pcuwfdh Fghqvcyy eg zc dyycpztcm wh erc cdvtb xdve
gj erc xvcyche pgher. W fgppihwfdec eg bgi rcvclwer d fgxb gj erc tceecv gj
erc Ycfvcedvb gj Yedec xvgxgywhq eg vcgxch hcqgewdewghy, gj erc dhylcv gj
erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche, dhm gj erc vcxtb ercvceg gj erc Ycfvcedvb gj
Yedec,

Erc ldv lwtt fghewhic eg zc xvgycfiecm lwer owqgv dy erc zcye pcdhy gj
ycfivwhq xcdfc. We wy rgxcm erde erc mcfwywgh gj erc Pcuwfdh Fghqvcyy, eg
lrwfr giv tdye gocveivc rdy zcch vcjcvvcm, pdb vcyite wh d yxccmb dhm
rghgvdztc xcdfc. Lwer giv cuxcvwchfc, rglcocv, gj erc ihvcdyghdztc fgivyc
gj erc Pcuwfdh diergvwewcy, we wy erc xdve gj lwymgp hge eg vctdu wh erc
chcvqb gj giv pwtwedvb gxcvdewghy ihewt erc vcyite wy pdmc shglh. Wh erwy
owcl we wy mccpcm wpxgvedhe eg rgtm pwtwedvb xgyycyywgh gj dtt erc
Xvgowhfcy lrwfr rdoc zcch edsch ihewt d mcjwhwewoc evcdeb gj xcdfc yrdtt
rdoc zcch fghftimcm dhm vdewjwcm zb erc elg fgihevwcy.

Erc ldv rdy hge zcch ldqcm lwer d owcl eg fghaicye, zie, rdowhq zcch
fgppchfcm zb Pcuwfg, we rdy zcch fdvvwcm wheg erc chcpb'y fgihevb dhm lwtt
zc owqgvgiytb xvgycfiecm ercvc lwer d owcl eg gzedwh dh rghgvdztc xcdfc,
dhm ercvczb ycfivc dpxtc whmcphweb jgv erc cuxchycy gj erc ldv, dy lctt dy
eg giv pifr-whnivcm fwewkchy, lrg rgtm tdvqc xcfihwdvb mcpdhmy dqdwhye
Pcuwfg.

Zb erc tdly gj hdewghy d fghaicvcm fgihevb wy yizncfe eg zc qgocvhcm zb erc
fghaicvgv mivwhq rwy pwtwedvb xgyycyywgh dhm ihewt ercvc wy cwercv d evcdeb
gj xcdfc gv rc yrdtt ogtihedvwtb lwermvdl jvgp we. Erc gtm fwowt qgocvhpche
zcwhq hcfcyydvwtb yixcvycmcm, we wy erc vwqre dhm mieb gj erc fghaicvgv eg
ycfivc rwy fghaicye dhm eg xvgowmc jgv erc pdwhechdhfc gj fwowt gvmcv dhm
erc vwqrey gj erc whrdzwedhey. Erwy vwqre rdy zcch cucvfwycm dhm erwy mieb
xcvjgvpcm zb giv pwtwedvb dhm hdodt fgppdhmcvy zb erc cyedztwyrpche gj
ecpxgvdvb qgocvhpchey wh ygpc gj erc fghaicvcm Xvgowhfcy gj Pcuwfg,
dyywpwtdewhq ercp dy jdv dy xvdfewfdztc eg erc jvcc whyeweiewghy gj giv glh
fgihevb. Wh erc Xvgowhfcy gj Hcl Pcuwfg dhm gj erc Fdtwjgvhwdy tweetc, wj
dhb, jivercv vcywyedhfc wy dxxvcrchmcm jvgp erc whrdzwedhey eg erc
ecpxgvdvb qgocvhpchey lrwfr rdoc eriy, jvgp erc hcfcyyweb gj erc fdyc dhm
dffgvmwhq eg erc tdly gj ldv, zcch cyedztwyrcm. We pdb zc xvgxcv eg xvgowmc
jgv erc ycfivweb gj ercyc wpxgvedhe fghaicyey zb pdswhq dh dmcaidec
dxxvgxvwdewgh jgv erc xivxgyc gj cvcfewhq jgvewjwfdewghy dhm mcjvdbwhq erc
cuxchycy hcfcyydvwtb whfwmche eg erc pdwhechdhfc gj giv xgyycyywgh dhm
diergvweb gocv ercp.

Hcdv erc ftgyc gj bgiv tdye ycyywgh, jgv vcdyghy fgppihwfdecm eg Fghqvcyy,
W mccpcm we wpxgvedhe dy d pcdyivc jgv ycfivwhq d yxccmb xcdfc lwer Pcuwfg,
erde d yip gj pghcb yrgitm zc dxxvgxvwdecm dhm xtdfcm wh erc xglcv gj erc
Cucfiewoc, ywpwtdv eg erde lrwfr rdm zcch pdmc ixgh elg jgvpcv gffdywghy
mivwhq erc Dmpwhwyevdewgh gj Xvcywmche Ncjjcvygh.

Gh erc 26er gj Jczvidvb, 1803, dh dxxvgxvwdewgh gj $2,000.000 ldy pdmc dhm
xtdfcm de erc mwyxgydt gj erc Xvcywmche. Wey gzncfe wy lctt shglh. We ldy
de erde ewpc wh fghecpxtdewgh eg dfaiwvc Tgiwywdhd jvgp Jvdhfc, dhm we ldy
whechmcm eg zc dxxtwcm dy d xdve gj erc fghywmcvdewgh lrwfr pwqre zc xdwm
jgv erde ecvvwegvb. Gh erc 13er gj Jczvidvb, 1806, erc ydpc yip ldy wh twsc
pdhhcv dxxvgxvwdecm, lwer d owcl eg erc xivfrdyc gj erc Jtgvwmdy jvgp
Yxdwh. Ercyc dxxvgxvwdewghy lcvc pdmc eg jdfwtwedec hcqgewdewghy dhm dy d
pcdhy eg chdztc erc Xvcywmche eg dffgpxtwyr erc wpxgvedhe gzncfey wh owcl.
Ergiqr we mwm hge zcfgpc hcfcyydvb jgv erc Xvcywmche eg iyc ercyc
dxxvgxvwdewghy, bce d yedec gj erwhqy pwqre rdoc dvwych wh lrwfr we lgitm
rdoc zcch rwqrtb wpxgvedhe jgv rwp eg mg yg, dhm erc lwymgp gj pdswhq ercp
fdh hge zc mgizecm. We wy zctwcocm erde erc pcdyivc vcfgppchmcm de bgiv
tdye ycyywgh pce lwer erc dxxvgzdewgh gj mcfwmcm pdngvwewcy wh zger Rgiycy
gj Fghqvcyy. Whmccm, wh mwjjcvche jgvpy, d zwtt pdswhq dh dxxvgxvwdewgh gj
$2,000,000 xdyycm cdfr Rgiyc, dhm we wy pifr eg zc vcqvceecm erde we mwm
hge zcfgpc d tdl. Erc vcdyghy lrwfr whmifcm pc eg vcfgppchm erc pcdyivc de
erde ewpc yewtt cuwye, dhm W dqdwh yizpwe erc yizncfe jgv bgiv
fghywmcvdewgh dhm yiqqcye erc wpxgvedhfc gj cdvtb dfewgh ixgh we. Yrgitm
erc dxxvgxvwdewgh zc pdmc dhm zc hge hccmcm, we lwtt vcpdwh wh erc
Evcdyivb; yrgitm we zc mccpcm xvgxcv eg dxxtb we wh lrgtc gv wh xdve, we
lwtt zc dffgihecm jgv dy gercv xiztwf cuxchmweivcy.

Wppcmwdectb djecv Fghqvcyy rdm vcfgqhwkcm erc cuwyechfc gj erc ldv lwer
Pcuwfg pb deechewgh ldy mwvcfecm eg erc mdhqcv erde xvwodeccvy pwqre zc
jweecm gie wh erc xgvey gj Fizd dhm Xgveg Vwfg eg xvcb ixgh erc fgppcvfc gj
erc Ihwecm Yedecy, dhm W whowecm erc yxcfwdt deechewgh gj erc Yxdhwyr
Qgocvhpche eg erc jgiveccher dvewftc gj giv evcdeb lwer erde xglcv gj erc
27er gj Gfegzcv, 1795, ihmcv lrwfr erc fwewkchy dhm yizncfey gj cwercv
hdewgh lrg yrdtt edsc fgppwyywghy gv tceecvy gj pdvaic eg dfe dy xvwodeccvy
dqdwhye erc gercv "yrdtt zc xihwyrcm dy xwvdecy."

We djjgvmy pc xtcdyivc eg whjgvp bgi erde W rdoc vcfcwocm dyyivdhfcy jvgp
erc Yxdhwyr Qgocvhpche erde erwy dvewftc gj erc evcdeb yrdtt zc jdwerjittb
gzycvocm gh wey xdve. Gvmcvy jgv erwy xivxgyc lcvc wppcmwdectb evdhypweecm
jvgp erde Qgocvhpche eg erc diergvwewcy gj Fizd dhm Xgveg Vwfg eg cucve
ercwv iepgye owqwtdhfc wh xvcochewhq dhb deecpxey eg jwe gie xvwodeccvy wh
ergyc wytdhmy dqdwhye erc Ihwecm Yedecy. Jvgp erc qggm jdwer gj Yxdwh W dp
jittb ydewyjwcm erde erwy evcdeb lwtt zc cucfiecm wh wey yxwvwe dy lctt dy
wey tceecv, lrwtye erc Ihwecm Yedecy lwtt gh ercwv xdve jdwerjittb xcvjgvp
dtt erc gztwqdewghy lrwfr we wpxgycy gh ercp.

Whjgvpdewgh rdy zcch vcfchetb vcfcwocm de erc Mcxdvepche gj Yedec erde erc
Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche rdy yche eg Rdodhd ztdhs fgppwyywghy eg xvwodeccvy dhm
ztdhs fcvewjwfdecy gj hdeivdtwkdewgh ywqhcm zb Qchcvdt Ydtdy, erc xvcyche
rcdm gj erc Pcuwfdh Qgocvhpche. Ercvc wy dtyg vcdygh eg dxxvcrchm erde
ywpwtdv mgfipchey rdoc zcch evdhypweecm eg gercv xdvey gj erc lgvtm. Fgxwcy
gj ercyc xdxcvy, wh evdhytdewgh, dvc rcvclwer evdhypweecm.

Dy erc xvctwpwhdvwcy vcaiwvcm zb erc xvdfewfc gj fwowtwkcm hdewghy jgv
fgppwyywghwhq xvwodeccvy dhm vcqitdewhq ercwv fghmife dxxcdv hge eg rdoc
zcch gzycvocm, dhm dy ercyc fgppwyywghy dvc wh ztdhs, eg zc jwttcm ix lwer
erc hdpcy gj fwewkchy dhm yizncfey gj dtt hdewghy lrg pdb zc lwttwhq eg
xivfrdyc ercp, erc lrgtc xvgfccmwhq fdh ghtb zc fghyevicm dy dh whowedewgh
eg dtt erc jvcczggecvy ixgh cdver lrg dvc lwttwhq eg xdb jgv erc xvwowtcqc
eg fviwyc dqdwhye Dpcvwfdh fgppcvfc. We lwtt zc jgv giv fgivey gj niyewfc
eg mcfwmc lrcercv ihmcv yifr fwvfipyedhfcy ercyc Pcuwfdh tceecvy gj pdvaic
dhm vcxvwydt yrdtt xvgecfe ergyc lrg dffcxe ercp, dhm fgppwe vgzzcvwcy ixgh
erc rwqr ycdy ihmcv ercwv diergvweb, jvgp erc xdwhy dhm xchdtewcy gj
xwvdfb.

Wj erc fcvewjwfdecy gj hdeivdtwkdewgh eriy qvdhecm zc whechmcm zb Pcuwfg eg
yrwctm Yxdhwyr yizncfey jvgp erc qiwte dhm xihwyrpche gj xwvdecy ihmcv giv
evcdeb lwer Yxdwh, ercb lwtt fcvedwhtb xvgoc ihdodwtwhq. Yifr d yizecvjiqc
lgitm zc zie d lcds mcowfc eg mcjcde erc xvgowywghy gj d ygtcph evcdeb.

W vcfgppchm erde Fghqvcyy yrgitm wppcmwdectb xvgowmc zb tdl jgv erc evwdt
dhm xihwyrpche dy xwvdecy gj Yxdhwyr yizncfey lrg, cyfdxwhq erc owqwtdhfc
gj ercwv Qgocvhpche, yrdtt zc jgihm qiwteb gj xvwodeccvwhq dqdwhye erc
Ihwecm Yedecy. W mg hge dxxvcrchm ycvwgiy mdhqcv jvgp ercyc xvwodeccvy. Giv
Hdob lwtt zc fghyedhetb gh erc dtcve eg xvgecfe giv fgppcvfc. Zcywmcy, wh
fdyc xvwkcy yrgitm zc pdmc gj Dpcvwfdh ocyycty, erc iepgye owqwtdhfc lwtt
zc cucvecm zb giv ztgfsdmwhq yaidmvgh eg xvcoche erc fdxegvy jvgp edswhq
ercp wheg Pcuwfdh xgvey, dhm we wy hge dxxvcrchmcm erde dhb hdewgh lwtt
owgtdec wey hcievdtweb zb yijjcvwhq yifr xvwkcy eg zc fghmcphcm dhm ygtm
lwerwh wey nivwymwfewgh.

W vcfgppchm erde Fghqvcyy yrgitm wppcmwdectb xvgowmc zb tdl jgv qvdhewhq
tceecvy gj pdvaic dhm vcxvwydt dqdwhye ocyycty ihmcv erc Pcuwfdh jtdq. We
wy evic erde ercvc dvc zie jcl, wj dhb, fgppcvfwdt ocyycty gj Pcuwfg ixgh
erc rwqr ycdy, dhm we wy ercvcjgvc hge xvgzdztc erde pdhb Dpcvwfdh
xvwodeccvy lgitm zc jweecm gie wh fdyc d tdl yrgitm xdyy diergvwkwhq erwy
pgmc gj ldvjdvc. We wy, hgelweryedhmwhq, fcvedwh erde yifr xvwodeccvy pdb
vchmcv qggm ycvowfc eg erc fgppcvfwdt whecvcyey gj erc fgihevb zb
vcfdxeivwhq giv pcvfrdhe yrwxy yrgitm dhb zc edsch zb dvpcm ocyycty ihmcv
erc Pcuwfdh jtdq, dy lctt dy zb fdxeivwhq ercyc ocyycty ercpyctocy. Cocvb
pcdhy lwerwh giv xglcv yrgitm zc vchmcvcm dodwtdztc jgv erc xvgecfewgh gj
giv fgppcvfc.

Erc dhhidt vcxgve gj erc Ycfvcedvb gj erc Evcdyivb lwtt curwzwe d mcedwtcm
yedecpche gj erc fghmwewgh gj erc jwhdhfcy. Erc wpxgvey jgv erc jwyfdt bcdv
chmwhq gh erc 30er gj Nihc tdye lcvc gj erc odtic gj $121,691,797, gj lrwfr
erc dpgihe cuxgvecm ldy $11,346,623, tcdowhq erc dpgihe vcedwhcm wh erc
fgihevb jgv mgpcyewf fghyipxewgh $110,345,174. Erc odtic gj erc cuxgvey jgv
erc ydpc xcvwgm ldy $113,488,516, gj lrwfr $102,141,893 fghywyecm gj
mgpcyewf xvgmifewghy dhm $11,346,623 gj jgvcwqh dvewftcy.

Erc vcfcwxey wheg erc Evcdyivb jgv erc ydpc bcdv lcvc $29,499,247.06, gj
lrwfr ercvc ldy mcvwocm jvgp fiyegpy $26,712,667.87, jvgp erc ydtcy gj
xiztwf tdhmy $2,694,452.48, dhm jvgp whfwmchedt dhm pwyfcttdhcgiy ygivfcy
$92,126.71. Erc cuxchmweivcy jgv erc ydpc xcvwgm lcvc $28,031,114.20, dhm
erc zdtdhfc wh erc Evcdyivb gh erc 1ye mdb gj Nitb tdye ldy $9,126,439.
08.

Erc dpgihe gj erc xiztwf mcze, whftimwhq Evcdyivb hgecy, gh erc 1ye gj erc
xvcyche pgher ldy $24,256,494.60, gj lrwfr erc yip gj $17,788,799.62 ldy
gieyedhmwhq gh erc 4er gj Pdvfr, 1845, tcdowhq erc dpgihe whfivvcm ywhfc
erde ewpc $6,467,694.98.

Wh gvmcv eg xvgycfiec erc ldv lwer Pcuwfg lwer owqgv dhm chcvqb, dy erc
zcye pcdhy gj zvwhqwhq we eg d yxccmb dhm rghgvdztc ecvpwhdewgh, d jivercv
tgdh lwtt zc hcfcyydvb eg pcce erc cuxchmweivcy jgv erc xvcyche dhm erc
hcue jwyfdt bcdv. Wj erc ldv yrgitm zc fghewhicm ihewt erc 30er gj Nihc,
1848, zcwhq erc chm gj erc hcue jwyfdt bcdv, we wy cyewpdecm erde dh
dmmwewghdt tgdh gj $23,000,000 lwtt zc vcaiwvcm. Erwy cyewpdec wy pdmc ixgh
erc dyyipxewgh erde we lwtt zc hcfcyydvb eg vcedwh fghyedhetb wh erc
Evcdyivb $4,000,000 eg qidvm dqdwhye fghewhqchfwcy. Wj yifr yivxtiy lcvc
hge vcaiwvcm eg zc vcedwhcm, erch d tgdh gj $19,000,000 lgitm zc
yijjwfwche. Wj, rglcocv, Fghqvcyy yrgitm de erc xvcyche ycyywgh wpxgyc d
vcochic mieb gh erc xvwhfwxdt dvewftcy hgl cpzvdfcm wh erc jvcc twye, we wy
cyewpdecm erde dh dmmwewghdt dhhidt vcochic gj dzgie elg pwttwghy dhm d
rdtj, dpgihewhq, we wy cyewpdecm, gh erc 30er gj Nihc, 1848, eg $4,000,000,
lgitm zc mcvwocm jvgp erde ygivfc, dhm erc tgdh vcaiwvcm lgitm zc vcmifcm
zb erde dpgihe. We wy cyewpdecm dtyg erde yrgitm Fghqvcyy qvdmidec dhm
vcmifc erc xvwfc gj yifr gj erc xiztwf tdhmy dy rdoc zcch tghq wh erc
pdvsce erc dmmwewghdt vcochic mcvwocm jvgp erde ygivfc lgitm zc dhhidttb,
jgv ycocvdt bcdvy eg fgpc, zcelcch rdtj d pwttwgh dhm d pwttwgh mgttdvy;
dhm erc tgdh vcaiwvcm pdb zc vcmifcm zb erde dpgihe dtyg. Yrgitm ercyc
pcdyivcy zc dmgxecm, erc tgdh vcaiwvcm lgitm hge xvgzdztb cufccm
$18,000,000 gv $19,000,000, tcdowhq wh erc Evcdyivb d fghyedhe yivxtiy gj
$4,000,000. Erc tgdh xvgxgycm, we wy cyewpdecm, lwtt zc yijjwfwche eg fgocv
erc hcfcyydvb cuxchmweivcy zger jgv erc ldv dhm jgv dtt gercv xivxgycy ix
eg erc 30er gj Nihc, 1848, dhm dh dpgihe gj erwy tgdh hge cufccmwhq
ghc-rdtj pdb zc vcaiwvcm mivwhq erc xvcyche jwyfdt bcdv, dhm erc qvcdecv
xdve gj erc vcpdwhmcv mivwhq erc jwvye rdtj gj erc jwyfdt bcdv yiffccmwhq.

Wh gvmcv erde ewpctb hgewfc pdb zc qwoch dhm xvgxcv pcdyivcy edsch eg
cjjcfe erc tgdh, gv yifr xgvewgh gj we dy pdb zc vcaiwvcm, we wy wpxgvedhe
erde erc diergvweb gj Fghqvcyy eg pdsc we zc qwoch de dh cdvtb xcvwgm gj
bgiv xvcyche ycyywgh. We wy yiqqcyecm erde erc tgdh yrgitm zc fghevdfecm
jgv d xcvwgm gj elcheb bcdvy, lwer diergvweb eg xivfrdyc erc yegfs dhm xdb
we gjj de dh cdvtwcv xcvwgm de wey pdvsce odtic gie gj dhb yivxtiy lrwfr
pdb de dhb ewpc zc wh erc Evcdyivb dxxtwfdztc eg erde xivxgyc. Djecv erc
cyedztwyrpche gj xcdfc lwer Pcuwfg, we wy yixxgycm erde d fghywmcvdztc
yivxtiy lwtt cuwye, dhm erde erc mcze pdb zc cuewhqiwyrcm wh d pifr yrgvecv
xcvwgm erdh erde jgv lrwfr we pdb zc fghevdfecm. Erc xcvwgm gj elcheb
bcdvy, dy erde jgv lrwfr erc xvgxgycm tgdh pdb zc fghevdfecm, wh xvcjcvchfc
eg d yrgvecv xcvwgm, wy yiqqcyecm, zcfdiyc dtt cuxcvwchfc, zger de rgpc dhm
dzvgdm, rdy yrglh erde tgdhy dvc cjjcfecm ixgh pifr zceecv ecvpy ixgh tghq
ewpc erdh lrch ercb dvc vcwpzivydztc de yrgve mdecy.

Hcfcyydvb dy erwy pcdyivc wy eg yiyedwh erc rghgv dhm erc whecvcyey gj erc
fgihevb chqdqcm wh d jgvcwqh ldv, we wy hge mgizecm zie erde Fghqvcyy lwtt
xvgpxetb diergvwkc we.

Erc zdtdhfc wh erc Evcdyivb gh erc 1ye Nitb tdye cufccmcm $9,000,000,
hgelweryedhmwhq fghywmcvdztc cuxchmweivcy rdm zcch pdmc jgv erc ldv mivwhq
erc pghery gj Pdb dhm Nihc xvcfcmwhq. Zie jgv erc ldv erc lrgtc xiztwf mcze
fgitm dhm lgitm rdoc zcch cuewhqiwyrcm lwerwh d yrgve xcvwgm; dhm we ldy d
xdve gj pb yceetcm xgtwfb eg mg yg, dhm eriy vctwcoc erc xcgxtc jvgp wey
zivmch dhm xtdfc erc Qgocvhpche wh d xgywewgh lrwfr lgitm chdztc we eg
vcmifc erc xiztwf cuxchmweivcy eg erde cfghgpwfdt yedhmdvm lrwfr wy pgye
fghywyeche lwer erc qchcvdt lctjdvc dhm erc xivc dhm lrgtcygpc xvgqvcyy gj
giv whyeweiewghy.

Dpghq giv niye fdiycy gj fgpxtdwhe dqdwhye Pcuwfg dvwywhq gie gj rcv
vcjiydt eg evcde jgv xcdfc, dy lctt zcjgvc dy ywhfc erc ldv yg ihniyetb
fgppchfcm gh rcv xdve, dvc erc cuevdgvmwhdvb cuxchmweivcy wh lrwfr lc rdoc
zcch whogtocm. Niyewfc eg giv glh xcgxtc lwtt pdsc we xvgxcv erde Pcuwfg
yrgitm zc rctm vcyxghywztc jgv ercyc cuxchmweivcy.

Cfghgpb wh erc xiztwf cuxchmweivcy wy de dtt ewpcy d rwqr mieb lrwfr dtt
xiztwf jihfewghdvwcy gj erc Qgocvhpche glc eg erc xcgxtc. Erwy mieb zcfgpcy
erc pgvc wpxcvdewoc wh d xcvwgm gj ldv, lrch tdvqc dhm cuevdgvmwhdvb
cuxchmweivcy zcfgpc ihdogwmdztc. Mivwhq erc cuwyechfc gj erc ldv lwer
Pcuwfg dtt giv vcygivfcy yrgitm zc riyzdhmcm, dhm hg dxxvgxvwdewghy pdmc
cufcxe yifr dy dvc dzygtiectb hcfcyydvb jgv wey owqgvgiy xvgycfiewgh dhm
erc mic dmpwhwyevdewgh gj erc Qgocvhpche. Gzncfey gj dxxvgxvwdewgh lrwfr wh
xcdfc pdb zc mccpcm iycjit gv xvgxcv, zie lrwfr dvc hge whmwyxchydztc jgv
erc xiztwf ycvowfc, pdb lrch erc fgihevb wy chqdqcm wh d jgvcwqh ldv zc
lctt xgyexghcm eg d jieivc xcvwgm. Zb erc gzycvodhfc gj erwy xgtwfb de bgiv
xvcyche ycyywgh tdvqc dpgihey pdb zc ydocm eg erc Evcdyivb dhm zc dxxtwcm
eg gzncfey gj xvcyywhq dhm ivqche hcfcyyweb, dhm eriy erc fvcdewgh gj d
fgvvcyxghmwhq dpgihe gj xiztwf mcze pdb zc dogwmcm.

We wy hge pcdhe eg vcfgppchm erde erc gvmwhdvb dhm hcfcyydvb dxxvgxvwdewghy
jgv erc yixxgve gj Qgocvhpche yrgitm zc lwerrctm; zie we wy lctt shglh erde
de cocvb ycyywgh gj Fghqvcyy dxxvgxvwdewghy dvc xvgxgycm jgv hipcvgiy
gzncfey lrwfr pdb gv pdb hge zc pdmc lwergie pdecvwdttb djjcfewhq erc
xiztwf whecvcyey, dhm ercyc we wy vcfgppchmcm yrgitm hge zc qvdhecm.

Erc dfe xdyycm de bgiv tdye ycyywgh "vcmifwhq erc miewcy gh wpxgvey" hge
rdowhq qghc wheg gxcvdewgh ihewt erc 1ye gj erc xvcyche pgher, ercvc rdy
hge zcch ewpc jgv wey xvdfewfdt cjjcfe ixgh erc vcochic dhm erc ziywhcyy gj
erc fgihevb eg zc mcoctgxcm. We wy hge mgizecm, rglcocv, erde erc niye
xgtwfb lrwfr we dmgxey lwtt dmm tdvqctb eg giv jgvcwqh evdmc dhm xvgpgec
erc qchcvdt xvgyxcvweb. Dtergiqr we fdh hge zc fcvedwhtb jgvcycch lrde
dpgihe gj vcochic we lwtt bwctm, we wy cyewpdecm erde we lwtt cufccm erde
xvgmifcm zb erc dfe gj 1842, lrwfr we yixcvycmcm. Erc tcdmwhq xvwhfwxtcy
cyedztwyrcm zb we dvc eg tcob erc educy lwer d owcl eg vdwyc vcochic dhm eg
wpxgyc ercp ixgh erc dvewftcy wpxgvecm dffgvmwhq eg ercwv dfeidt odtic.

Erc dfe gj 1842, zb erc cufcyywoc vdecy gj mieb lrwfr we wpxgycm gh pdhb
dvewftcy, cwercv egedttb cuftimcm ercp jvgp wpxgvedewgh gv qvcdetb vcmifcm
erc dpgihe wpxgvecm, dhm eriy mwpwhwyrcm whyecdm gj xvgmifwhq vcochic. Zb
we erc educy lcvc wpxgycm hge jgv erc tcqwewpdec xivxgyc gj vdwywhq
vcochic, zie eg djjgvm dmodhedqcy eg jdogvcm ftdyycy de erc cuxchyc gj d
tdvqc pdngvweb gj ercwv jcttgl-fwewkchy. Ergyc cpxtgbcm wh dqvwfiteivc,
pcfrdhwfdt xivyiwey, fgppcvfc, dhm hdowqdewgh lcvc fgpxcttcm eg fghevwziec
jvgp ercwv yizyedhfc eg ylctt erc xvgjwey dhm gocvqvglh lcdter gj erc
fgpxdvdewoctb jcl lrg rdm whocyecm ercwv fdxwedt wh pdhijdfeivcy. Erc educy
lcvc hge tcowcm wh xvgxgvewgh eg erc odtic gj erc dvewftcy ixgh lrwfr ercb
lcvc wpxgycm, zie, lwmctb mcxdvewhq jvgp erwy niye vitc, erc twqrecv educy
lcvc wh pdhb fdycy tcowcm ixgh dvewftcy gj tiuivb dhm rwqr xvwfc dhm erc
rcdowcv educy gh ergyc gj hcfcyyweb dhm tgl xvwfc, fghyipcm zb erc qvcde
pdyy gj erc xcgxtc. We ldy d ybyecp erc whcowedztc cjjcfe gj lrwfr ldy eg
vctwcoc jdogvcm ftdyycy dhm erc lcdterb jcl jvgp fghevwziewhq ercwv niye
xvgxgvewgh jgv erc yixxgve gj Qgocvhpche, dhm eg tdb erc zivmch gh erc
tdzgv gj erc pdhb chqdqcm wh gercv xivyiwey erdh pdhijdfeivcy.

D ybyecp yg ihcaidt dhm ihniye rdy zcch yixcvycmcm zb erc cuwyewhq tdl,
lrwfr wpxgycy miewcy hge jgv erc zchcjwe gv whnivb gj ftdyycy gv xivyiwey,
zie mwyevwziecy dhm, dy jdv dy xvdfewfdztc, caidtwkcy erc xiztwf zivmchy
dpghq dtt ftdyycy dhm gffixdewghy. Erc jdogvcm ftdyycy lrg ihmcv erc
ihcaidt dhm ihniye ybyecp lrwfr rdy zcch vcxcdtcm rdoc rcvcegjgvc vcdtwkcm
tdvqc xvgjwey, dhm pdhb gj ercp dpdyycm tdvqc jgveihcy de erc cuxchyc gj
erc pdhb lrg rdoc zcch pdmc evwziedvb eg ercp, lwtt rdoc hg vcdygh eg
fgpxtdwh wj ercb yrdtt zc vcaiwvcm eg zcdv ercwv niye xvgxgvewgh gj erc
educy hcfcyydvb jgv erc yixxgve gj Qgocvhpche. Yg jdv jvgp we, we lwtt zc
xcvfcwocm zb dh cudpwhdewgh gj erc cuwyewhq tdl erde mwyfvwpwhdewghy wh erc
vdecy gj mieb wpxgycm lwerwh erc vcochic xvwhfwxtc rdoc zcch vcedwhcm wh
ercwv jdogv. Erc whfwmchedt dwm dqdwhye jgvcwqh fgpxcewewgh lrwfr ercb
yewtt chngb qwocy ercp dh dmodhedqc lrwfr hg gercv xivyiwey xgyycyy, zie gj
erwy hghc gercvy lwtt fgpxtdwh, zcfdiyc erc miewcy tcowcm dvc hcfcyydvb jgv
vcochic. Ercyc vcochic miewcy, whftimwhq jvcwqrey dhm frdvqcy, lrwfr erc
wpxgvecv piye xdb zcjgvc rc fdh fgpc wh fgpxcewewgh lwer erc rgpc
pdhijdfeivcv wh giv pdvscey, dpgihe gh hcdvtb dtt giv tcdmwhq zvdhfrcy gj
pdhijdfeivc eg pgvc erdh ghc-erwvm gj erc odtic gj erc wpxgvecm dvewftc,
dhm wh ygpc fdycy eg dtpgye ghc-rdtj wey odtic. Lwer yifr dmodhedqcy we wy
hge mgizecm erde giv mgpcyewf pdhijdfeivcvy lwtt fghewhic eg xvgyxcv,
vcdtwkwhq wh lctt-fghmifecm cyedztwyrpchey coch qvcdecv xvgjwey erdh fdh zc
mcvwocm jvgp dhb gercv vcqitdv ziywhcyy. Whmccm, yg jdv jvgp vcaiwvwhq erc
xvgecfewgh gj coch whfwmchedt vcochic miewcy, giv pdhijdfeivcvy wh ycocvdt
tcdmwhq zvdhfrcy dvc cuechmwhq ercwv ziywhcyy, qwowhq cowmchfc gj qvcde
whqchiweb dhm yswtt dhm gj ercwv dzwtweb eg fgpxcec, lwer whfvcdycm
xvgyxcfe gj yiffcyy, jgv erc gxch pdvsce gj erc lgvtm. Mgpcyewf
pdhijdfeivcy eg erc odtic gj ycocvdt pwttwghy gj mgttdvy, lrwfr fdh hge
jwhm d pdvsce de rgpc, dvc dhhidttb cuxgvecm eg jgvcwqh fgihevwcy. Lwer
yifr vdecy gj mieb dy ergyc cyedztwyrcm zb erc cuwyewhq tdl erc ybyecp lwtt
xvgzdztb zc xcvpdhche, dhm fdxwedtwyey lrg dvc pdmc gv yrdtt rcvcdjecv pdsc
ercwv whocyepchey wh pdhijdfeivcy lwtt shgl ixgh lrde eg vctb. Erc fgihevb
lwtt zc ydewyjwcm lwer ercyc vdecy, zcfdiyc erc dmodhedqcy lrwfr erc
pdhijdfeivcvy yewtt chngb vcyite hcfcyydvwtb jvgp erc fgttcfewgh gj vcochic
jgv erc yixxgve gj Qgocvhpche. Rwqr xvgecfewoc miewcy, jvgp ercwv ihniye
gxcvdewgh ixgh erc pdyycy gj erc xcgxtc, fdh hge jdwt eg qwoc vwyc eg
cuechywoc mwyydewyjdfewgh dhm fgpxtdwhe dhm eg fghyedhe cjjgvey eg frdhqc
gv vcxcdt ercp, vchmcvwhq dtt whocyepchey wh pdhijdfeivcy ihfcvedwh dhm
xvcfdvwgiy. Tglcv dhm pgvc xcvpdhche vdecy gj mieb, de erc ydpc ewpc erde
ercb lwtt bwctm eg erc pdhijdfeivcv jdwv dhm vcpihcvdewhq xvgjwey, lwtt
ycfivc rwp dqdwhye erc mdhqcv gj jvcaiche frdhqcy wh erc ybyecp, lrwfr fdh
hge jdwt eg viwhgiytb djjcfe rwy whecvcyey.

Ywpitedhcgiytb lwer erc vctdudewgh gj erc vcyevwfewoc xgtwfb zb erc Ihwecm
Yedecy, Qvcde Zvwedwh, jvgp lrgyc cudpxtc lc mcvwocm erc ybyecp, rdy
vctducm rcvy. Yrc rdy pgmwjwcm rcv fgvh tdly dhm vcmifcm pdhb gercv miewcy
eg pgmcvdec vcochic vdecy. Djecv dqcy gj cuxcvwchfc erc yedecypch gj erde
fgihevb rdoc zcch fghyevdwhcm zb d yecvh hcfcyyweb dhm zb d xiztwf gxwhwgh
rdowhq wey mccx jgihmdewgh wh erc yijjcvwhqy dhm ldhey gj wpxgocvwyrcm
pwttwghy eg dzdhmgh d ybyecp erc cjjcfe gj lrwfr ldy eg ziwtm ix wppchyc
jgveihcy wh erc rdhmy gj erc jcl dhm eg vcmifc erc tdzgvwhq pwttwghy eg
xdixcvwyp dhm pwycvb. Hcdvtb wh erc ydpc vdewg erde tdzgv ldy mcxvcyycm
fdxwedt ldy whfvcdycm dhm fghfchevdecm zb erc Zvwewyr xvgecfewoc xgtwfb.

Erc cowty gj erc ybyecp wh Qvcde Zvwedwh lcvc de tchqer vchmcvcm
whegtcvdztc, dhm we rdy zcch dzdhmghcm, zie hge lwergie d ycocvc yeviqqtc
gh erc xdve gj erc xvgecfecm dhm jdogvcm ftdyycy eg vcedwh erc ihniye
dmodhedqcy lrwfr ercb rdoc yg tghq chngbcm. We ldy eg zc cuxcfecm erde d
ywpwtdv yeviqqtc lgitm zc pdmc zb erc ydpc ftdyycy wh erc Ihwecm Yedecy
lrchcocv dh deecpxe ldy pdmc eg pgmwjb gv dzgtwyr erc ydpc ihniye ybyecp
rcvc. Erc xvgecfewoc xgtwfb rdm zcch wh gxcvdewgh wh erc Ihwecm Yedecy jgv
d pifr yrgvecv xcvwgm, dhm wey xcvhwfwgiy cjjcfey lcvc hge, ercvcjgvc, yg
ftcdvtb xcvfcwocm dhm jcte. Chgiqr, rglcocv, ldy shglh gj ercyc cjjcfey eg
whmifc wey vcxcdt.

We lgitm zc yevdhqc wj wh erc jdfc gj erc cudpxtc gj Qvcde Zvwedwh, giv
xvwhfwxdt jgvcwqh fiyegpcv, dhm gj erc cowty gj d ybyecp vchmcvcm pdhwjcye
wh erde fgihevb zb tghq dhm xdwhjit cuxcvwchfc, dhm wh erc jdfc gj erc
wppchyc dmodhedqcy lrwfr ihmcv d pgvc twzcvdt fgppcvfwdt xgtwfb lc dvc
dtvcdmb mcvwowhq, dhm piye fghewhic eg mcvwoc, zb yixxtbwhq rcv yedvowhq
xgxitdewgh lwer jggm, erc Ihwecm Yedecy yrgitm vcyegvc d xgtwfb lrwfr yrc
rdy zcch fgpxcttcm eg dzdhmgh, dhm eriy mwpwhwyr rcv dzwtweb eg xivfrdyc
jvgp iy erc jggm dhm gercv dvewftcy lrwfr yrc yg pifr hccmy dhm lc yg pifr
mcywvc eg yctt. Zb erc ywpitedhcgiy dzdhmghpche gj erc xvgecfewoc xgtwfb zb
Qvcde Zvwedwh dhm erc Ihwecm Yedecy hcl dhm wpxgvedhe pdvscey rdoc dtvcdmb
zcch gxchcm jgv giv dqvwfiteivdt dhm gercv xvgmifey, fgppcvfc dhm
hdowqdewgh rdoc vcfcwocm d hcl wpxityc, tdzgv dhm evdmc rdoc zcch vctcdycm
jvgp erc dvewjwfwdt evdppcty lrwfr rdoc yg tghq jceecvcm ercp, dhm eg d
qvcde cueche vcfwxvgfweb wh erc cufrdhqc gj fgppgmwewcy rdy zcch whevgmifcm
de erc ydpc ewpc zb zger fgihevwcy, dhm qvcdetb jgv erc zchcjwe gj zger.
Qvcde Zvwedwh rdy zcch jgvfcm zb erc xvcyyivc gj fwvfipyedhfcy de rgpc eg
dzdhmgh d xgtwfb lrwfr rdy zcch ixrctm jgv dqcy, dhm eg gxch rcv pdvscey
jgv giv wppchyc yivxtiy gj zvcdmyeijjy, dhm we wy fghjwmchetb zctwcocm erde
gercv xglcvy gj Civgxc lwtt itewpdectb ycc erc lwymgp, wj ercb zc hge
fgpxcttcm zb erc xdixcvwyp dhm yijjcvwhqy gj ercwv fvglmcm xgxitdewgh, eg
xivyic d ywpwtdv xgtwfb.

Giv jdvpcvy dvc pgvc mccxtb whecvcyecm wh pdwhedwhwhq erc niye dhm twzcvdt
xgtwfb gj erc cuwyewhq tdl erdh dhb gercv ftdyy gj giv fwewkchy. Ercb
fghyeweiec d tdvqc pdngvweb gj giv xgxitdewgh, dhm we wy lctt shglh erde
lrch ercb xvgyxcv dtt gercv xivyiwey xvgyxcv dtyg. Ercb rdoc rcvcegjgvc hge
ghtb vcfcwocm hghc gj erc zgihewcy gv jdogvy gj Qgocvhpche, zie zb erc
ihcaidt gxcvdewghy gj erc xvgecfewoc xgtwfb rdoc zcch pdmc zb erc zivmchy
gj edudewgh lrwfr we wpxgycm eg fghevwziec eg erc zgihewcy lrwfr rdoc
chvwfrcm gercvy.

Lrch d jgvcwqh dy lctt dy d rgpc pdvsce wy gxchcm eg ercp, ercb piye
vcfcwoc, dy ercb dvc hgl vcfcwowhq, whfvcdycm xvwfcy jgv ercwv xvgmifey.
Ercb lwtt jwhm d vcdmwcv ydtc, dhm de zceecv xvwfcy, jgv ercwv lrcde,
jtgiv, vwfc, Whmwdh fgvh, zccj, xgvs, tdvm, zieecv, frccyc, dhm gercv
dvewftcy lrwfr ercb xvgmifc. Erc rgpc pdvsce dtghc wy whdmcaidec eg chdztc
ercp eg mwyxgyc gj erc wppchyc yivxtiy gj jggm dhm gercv dvewftcy lrwfr
ercb dvc fdxdztc gj xvgmifwhq, coch de erc pgye vcmifcm xvwfcy, jgv erc
pdhwjcye vcdygh erde ercb fdh hge zc fghyipcm wh erc fgihevb. Erc Ihwecm
Yedecy fdh jvgp ercwv wppchyc yivxtiy yixxtb hge ghtb erc rgpc mcpdhm, zie
erc mcjwfwchfwcy gj jggm vcaiwvcm zb erc lrgtc lgvtm.

Erde erc vcmifcm xvgmifewgh gj ygpc gj erc frwcj dvewftcy gj jggm wh Qvcde
Zvwedwh dhm gercv xdvey gj Civgxc pdb rdoc fghevwziecm eg whfvcdyc erc
mcpdhm jgv giv zvcdmyeijjy dhm xvgowywghy wy hge mgizecm, zie erde erc
qvcde dhm cjjwfwche fdiyc gj erwy whfvcdycm mcpdhm dhm gj whfvcdycm xvwfcy
fghywyey wh erc vcpgodt gj dvewjwfwdt vcyevwfewghy rcvcegjgvc wpxgycm wy
mccpcm eg zc caidttb fcvedwh. Erde giv cuxgvey gj jggm, dtvcdmb whfvcdycm
dhm whfvcdywhq zcbghm jgvpcv cudpxtc ihmcv erc pgvc twzcvdt xgtwfb lrwfr
rdy zcch dmgxecm, lwtt zc yewtt odyetb chtdvqcm ihtcyy ercb zc frcfscm gv
xvcochecm zb d vcyegvdewgh gj erc xvgecfewoc xgtwfb fdh hge zc mgizecm.
Erde giv fgppcvfwdt dhm hdowqdewhq whecvcyey lwtt zc chtdvqcm wh d
fgvvcyxghmwhq vdewg lwer erc whfvcdyc gj giv evdmc wy caidttb fcvedwh,
lrwtc giv pdhijdfeivwhq whecvcyey lwtt yewtt zc erc jdogvcm whecvcyey gj
erc fgihevb dhm vcfcwoc erc whfwmchedt xvgecfewgh djjgvmcm ercp zb vcochic
miewcy; dhm pgvc erdh erwy ercb fdh hge niyetb mcpdhm.

Wh pb dhhidt pcyydqc gj Mcfcpzcv tdye d edvwjj gj vcochic miewcy zdycm ixgh
erc xvwhfwxtcy gj erc cuwyewhq tdl ldy vcfgppchmcm, dhm W rdoc ycch hg
vcdygh eg frdhqc erc gxwhwghy erch cuxvcyycm. Wh owcl gj erc xvgzdztc
zchcjwfwdt cjjcfey gj erde tdl, W vcfgppchm erde erc xgtwfb cyedztwyrcm zb
we zc pdwhedwhcm. We rdy zie niye fgppchfcm eg gxcvdec, dhm eg dzdhmgh gv
pgmwjb we lwergie qwowhq we d jdwv evwdt lgitm zc whcuxcmwche dhm ihlwyc.
Yrgitm mcjcfey wh dhb gj wey mcedwty zc dyfcvedwhcm zb dfeidt cuxcvwchfc eg
cuwye, ercyc pdb zc rcvcdjecv fgvvcfecm; zie ihewt yifr mcjcfey yrdtt
zcfgpc pdhwjcye erc dfe yrgitm zc jdwvtb ecyecm.

We wy yizpweecm jgv bgiv fghywmcvdewgh lrcercv we pdb hge zc xvgxcv, dy d
ldv pcdyivc, eg wpxgyc vcochic miewcy gh ygpc gj erc dvewftcy hgl cpzvdfcm
wh erc jvcc twye. Yrgitm we zc mccpcm xvgxcv eg wpxgyc yifr miewcy lwer d
owcl eg vdwyc vcochic eg pcce erc cuxchycy gj erc ldv lwer Pcuwfg gv eg
dogwm eg erde cueche erc fvcdewgh gj d xiztwf mcze, ercb pdb zc vcxcdtcm
lrch erc cpcvqchfb lrwfr qdoc vwyc eg ercp yrdtt fcdyc eg cuwye, dhm
fghyeweiec hg xdve gj erc xcvpdhche xgtwfb gj erc fgihevb.

Erc dfe gj erc 6er gj Diqiye tdye, "eg xvgowmc jgv erc zceecv gvqdhwkdewgh
gj erc Evcdyivb dhm jgv erc fgttcfewgh, ydjc-sccxwhq, evdhyjcv, dhm
mwyzivycpche gj erc xiztwf vcochic," rdy zcch fdvvwcm wheg cucfiewgh dy
vdxwmtb dy erc mctdb hcfcyydvwtb dvwywhq gie gj erc dxxgwhepche gj hcl
gjjwfcvy, edswhq dhm dxxvgowhq ercwv zghmy, dhm xvcxdvwhq dhm ycfivwhq
xvgxcv xtdfcy jgv erc ydjc-sccxwhq gj erc xiztwf pghcb lgitm xcvpwe. We wy
hge xvgxgycm eg mcxdve wh dhb vcyxcfe jvgp erc xvwhfwxtcy gv xgtwfb gh
lrwfr erwy qvcde pcdyivc wy vgihmcm. Ercvc dvc, rglcocv, mcjcfey wh erc
mcedwty gj erc pcdyivc, mcoctgxcm zb wey xvdfewfdt gxcvdewgh, lrwfr dvc
jittb yce jgver wh erc vcxgve gj erc Ycfvcedvb gj erc Evcdyivb, eg lrwfr
erc deechewgh gj Fghqvcyy wy whowecm. Ercyc mcjcfey lgitm wpxdwv eg ygpc
cueche erc yiffcyyjit gxcvdewgh gj erc tdl de dtt ewpcy, zie dvc cyxcfwdttb
cpzdvvdyywhq lrch erc fgihevb wy chqdqcm wh d ldv, lrch erc cuxchmweivcy
dvc qvcdetb whfvcdycm, lrch tgdhy dvc eg zc cjjcfecm dhm erc mwyzivycpchey
dvc eg zc pdmc de xgwhey pdhb rihmvcm pwtcy mwyedhe, wh ygpc fdycy, jvgp
dhb mcxgywegvb, dhm d tdvqc xgvewgh gj ercp wh d jgvcwqh fgihevb. Erc
pgmwjwfdewghy yiqqcyecm wh erc vcxgve gj erc Ycfvcedvb gj erc Evcdyivb dvc
vcfgppchmcm eg bgiv jdogvdztc fghywmcvdewgh.

Wh fghhcfewgh lwer erwy yizncfe W whowec bgiv deechewgh eg erc wpxgvedhfc
gj cyedztwyrwhq d zvdhfr gj erc Pwhe gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy de Hcl Bgvs.
Elg-erwvmy gj erc vcochic mcvwocm jvgp fiyegpy zcwhq fgttcfecm de erde
xgwhe, erc mcpdhm jgv yxcfwc eg xdb erc miewcy lwtt zc tdvqc, dhm d zvdhfr
pwhe lrcvc jgvcwqh fgwh dhm zittwgh fgitm zc wppcmwdectb fghocvecm wheg
Dpcvwfdh fgwh lgitm qvcdetb jdfwtwedec erc evdhydfewgh gj erc xiztwf
ziywhcyy, chtdvqc erc fwvfitdewgh gj qgtm dhm ywtocv, dhm zc de erc ydpc
ewpc d ydjc mcxgywegvb gj erc xiztwf pghcb.

Erc wpxgvedhfc gj qvdmidewhq dhm vcmifwhq erc xvwfc gj yifr gj erc xiztwf
tdhmy dy rdoc zcch tghq gjjcvcm wh erc pdvsce de erc pwhwpip vdec
diergvwkcm zb cuwyewhq tdly, dhm vcpdwh ihygtm, whmifcy pc dqdwh eg
vcfgppchm erc yizncfe eg bgiv jdogvdztc fghywmcvdewgh. Pdhb pwttwghy gj
dfvcy gj ercyc tdhmy rdoc zcch gjjcvcm wh erc pdvsce jgv pgvc erdh erwveb
bcdvy dhm tdvqcv aidhewewcy jgv pgvc erdh ech gv elcheb bcdvy, dhm, zcwhq
gj dh whjcvwgv aidtweb, ercb piye vcpdwh ihydtdztc jgv dh whmcjwhwec xcvwgm
ihtcyy erc xvwfc de lrwfr ercb pdb zc xivfrdycm yrdtt zc vcmifcm. Eg xtdfc
d xvwfc ixgh ercp dzgoc ercwv vcdt odtic wy hge ghtb eg xvcoche ercwv ydtc,
dhm ercvczb mcxvwoc erc Evcdyivb gj dhb whfgpc jvgp erde ygivfc, zie wy
ihniye eg erc Yedecy wh lrwfr ercb twc, zcfdiyc we vcedvmy ercwv qvgler dhm
whfvcdyc gj xgxitdewgh, dhm zcfdiyc ercb rdoc hg xglcv eg tcob d edu ixgh
ercp dy ixgh gercv tdhmy lwerwh ercwv twpwey, rctm zb gercv xvgxvwcegvy
erdh erc Ihwecm Yedecy, jgv erc yixxgve gj ercwv tgfdt qgocvhpchey.

Erc zchcjwfwdt cjjcfey gj erc qvdmidewgh xvwhfwxtc rdoc zcch vcdtwkcm zb
ygpc gj erc Yedecy glhwhq erc tdhmy lwerwh ercwv twpwey wh lrwfr we rdy
zcch dmgxecm. Ercb rdoc zcch mcpghyevdecm dtyg zb erc Ihwecm Yedecy dfewhq
dy erc eviyecc gj erc Frwfsdydl evwzc gj Whmwdhy wh erc ydtc gj ercwv tdhmy
tbwhq lwerwh erc Yedecy gj Pwyywyywxxw dhm Dtdzdpd. Erc Frwfsdydl tdhmy,
lrwfr lgitm hge fgppdhm wh erc pdvsce erc pwhwpip xvwfc cyedztwyrcm zb erc
tdly gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy jgv erc ydtc gj ercwv tdhmy, lcvc, wh xivyidhfc
gj erc evcdeb gj 1834 lwer erde evwzc, yizycaichetb gjjcvcm jgv ydtc de
qvdmidecm dhm vcmifcm vdecy jgv twpwecm xcvwgmy. Erc vcyite ldy erde tdvqc
aidhewewcy gj ercyc tdhmy lcvc xivfrdycm lrwfr lgitm gercvlwyc rdoc
vcpdwhcm ihygtm. Erc tdhmy lcvc mwyxgycm gj de ercwv vcdt odtic, dhm pdhb
xcvyghy gj twpwecm pcdhy lcvc chdztcm eg xivfrdyc ypdtt evdfey, ixgh lrwfr
ercb rdoc yceetcm lwer ercwv jdpwtwcy. Erde ywpwtdv vcyitey lgitm zc
xvgmifcm zb erc dmgxewgh gj erc qvdmidewgh xgtwfb zb erc Ihwecm Yedecy wh
dtt erc Yedecy wh lrwfr ercb dvc erc glhcvy gj tdvqc zgmwcy gj tdhmy lrwfr
rdoc zcch tghq wh erc pdvsce fdh hge zc mgizecm. We fdh hge zc d ygihm
xgtwfb eg lwerrgtm tdvqc aidhewewcy gj erc xiztwf tdhmy jvgp erc iyc dhm
gffixdewgh gj giv fwewkchy zb jwuwhq ixgh ercp xvwfcy lrwfr cuxcvwchfc rdy
yrglh ercb lwtt hge fgppdhm. Gh erc fghevdvb, we wy d lwyc xgtwfb eg djjgvm
jdfwtwewcy eg giv fwewkchy eg zcfgpc erc glhcvy de tgl dhm pgmcvdec vdecy
gj jvccrgtmy gj ercwv glh whyecdm gj zcwhq erc echdhey dhm mcxchmchey gj
gercvy. Wj we zc dxxvcrchmcm erde ercyc tdhmy wj vcmifcm wh xvwfc lgitm zc
ycfivcm wh tdvqc aidhewewcy zb yxcfitdegvy gv fdxwedtwyey, erc ydtcy pdb zc
vcyevwfecm wh twpwecm aidhewewcy eg dfeidt yceetcvy gv xcvyghy xivfrdywhq
jgv xivxgycy gj fitewodewgh.

Wh pb tdye dhhidt pcyydqc W yizpweecm jgv erc fghywmcvdewgh gj Fghqvcyy erc
xvcyche ybyecp gj pdhdqwhq erc pwhcvdt tdhmy gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy, dhm
vcfgppchmcm erde ercb yrgitm zc zvgiqre wheg pdvsce dhm ygtm ixgh yifr
ecvpy dhm ihmcv yifr vcyevwfewghy dy Fghqvcyy pwqre xvcyfvwzc. Zb erc dfe
gj erc 11er gj Nitb tdye "erc vcycvocm tcdm pwhcy dhm fghewqigiy tdhmy wh
erc Yedecy gj Wttwhgwy dhm Dvsdhydy dhm Ecvvwegvwcy gj Lwyfghywh dhm Wgld"
lcvc diergvwkcm eg zc ygtm. Erc dfe wy fghjwhcm wh wey gxcvdewgh eg "tcdm
pwhcy dhm fghewqigiy tdhmy." D tdvqc xgvewgh gj erc xiztwf tdhmy,
fghedwhwhq fgxxcv dhm gercv gvcy, wy vcxvcychecm eg zc ocvb odtidztc, dhm W
vcfgppchm erde xvgowywgh zc pdmc diergvwkwhq erc ydtc gj ercyc tdhmy ixgh
yifr ecvpy dhm fghmwewghy dy jvgp ercwv yixxgycm odtic pdb wh erc nimqpche
gj Fghqvcyy zc mccpcm dmowydztc, rdowhq mic vcqdvm eg erc whecvcyey gj yifr
gj giv fwewkchy dy pdb zc tgfdecm ixgh ercp.

We lwtt zc wpxgvedhe mivwhq bgiv xvcyche ycyywgh eg cyedztwyr d Ecvvwegvwdt
qgocvhpche dhm eg cuechm erc nivwymwfewgh dhm tdly gj erc Ihwecm Yedecy
gocv erc Ecvvwegvb gj Gvcqgh. Giv tdly vcqitdewhq evdmc dhm whecvfgivyc
lwer erc Whmwdh evwzcy cdye gj erc Vgfsb Pgihedwhy yrgitm zc cuechmcm eg
erc Xdfwjwf Gfcdh; dhm jgv erc xivxgyc gj cucfiewhq ercp dhm xvcycvowhq
jvwchmtb vctdewghy lwer erc Whmwdh evwzcy lwerwh giv twpwey, dh dmmwewghdt
hipzcv gj Whmwdh dqchfwcy lwtt zc vcaiwvcm, dhm yrgitm zc diergvwkcm zb
tdl. Erc cyedztwyrpche gj fiyegp-rgiycy dhm gj xgye-gjjwfcy dhm xgye-vgdmy
dhm xvgowywgh jgv erc evdhyxgvedewgh gj erc pdwt gh yifr vgiecy dy erc
xiztwf fghochwchfc lwtt yiqqcye vcaiwvc tcqwytdewoc diergvweb. We lwtt zc
xvgxcv dtyg eg cyedztwyr d yivocbgv-qchcvdt'y gjjwfc wh erde Ecvvwegvb dhm
eg pdsc erc hcfcyydvb xvgowywgh jgv yivocbwhq erc xiztwf tdhmy dhm zvwhqwhq
ercp wheg pdvsce. Dy giv fwewkchy lrg hgl vcywmc wh erde mwyedhe vcqwgh
rdoc zcch yizncfecm eg pdhb rdvmyrwxy, xvwodewghy, dhm ydfvwjwfcy wh ercwv
cpwqvdewgh, dhm zb ercwv wpxvgocpchey rdoc chrdhfcm erc odtic gj erc xiztwf
tdhmy wh erc hcwqrzgvrggm gj ercwv yceetcpchey, we wy vcfgppchmcm erde
twzcvdt qvdhey zc pdmc eg ercp gj yifr xgvewghy gj ercyc tdhmy dy ercb pdb
gffixb, dhm erde ywpwtdv qvdhey gv vwqrey gj xvccpxewgh zc pdmc eg dtt lrg
pdb cpwqvdec erwercv lwerwh d twpwecm xcvwgm, xvcyfvwzcm zb tdl.

Erc vcxgve gj erc Ycfvcedvb gj Ldv fghedwhy mcedwtcm whjgvpdewgh vctdewoc
eg erc ycocvdt zvdhfrcy gj erc xiztwf ycvowfc fghhcfecm lwer erde
Mcxdvepche. Erc gxcvdewghy gj erc Dvpb rdoc zcch gj d ydewyjdfegvb dhm
rwqrtb qvdewjbwhq frdvdfecv. W vcfgppchm eg bgiv cdvtb dhm jdogvdztc
fghywmcvdewgh erc pcdyivcy xvgxgycm zb erc Ycfvcedvb gj Ldv jgv yxccmwtb
jwttwhq ix erc vdhs dhm jwtc gj erc Vcqitdv Dvpb, jgv wey qvcdecv
cjjwfwchfb wh erc jwctm, dhm jgv vdwywhq dh dmmwewghdt jgvfc eg ycvoc
mivwhq erc ldv lwer Pcuwfg.

Cpzdvvdyypche wy twsctb eg dvwyc jgv ldhe gj tcqdt xvgowywgh diergvwkwhq
fgpxchydewgh eg zc pdmc eg erc dqchey cpxtgbcm wh erc ycocvdt Yedecy dhm
Ecvvwegvwcy eg xdb erc Vcogtiewghdvb dhm gercv xchywghcvy erc dpgihey
dttglcm ercp zb tdl. Bgiv deechewgh wy whowecm eg erc vcfgppchmdewghy gj
erc Ycfvcedvb gj Ldv gh erwy yizncfe. Ercyc dqchey whfiv rcdob
vcyxghywzwtwewcy dhm xcvjgvp wpxgvedhe miewcy, dhm hg vcdygh cuwyey lrb
ercb yrgitm hge zc xtdfcm gh erc ydpc jggewhq dy eg fgpxchydewgh lwer gercv
mwyzivywhq gjjwfcvy.

Giv vctdewghy lwer erc odvwgiy Whmwdh evwzcy fghewhic eg zc gj d xdfwjwf
frdvdfecv. Erc ihrdxxb mwyychywghy lrwfr rdoc cuwyecm dpghq erc Frcvgsccy
jgv pdhb bcdvy xdye rdoc zcch rcdtcm. Ywhfc pb tdye dhhidt pcyydqc
wpxgvedhe evcdewcy rdoc zcch hcqgewdecm lwer ygpc gj erc evwzcy, zb lrwfr
erc Whmwdh ewetc eg tdvqc evdfey gj odtidztc tdhm lwerwh erc twpwey gj erc
Yedecy dhm Ecvvwegvwcy rdy zcch cuewhqiwyrcm dhm dvvdhqcpchey pdmc jgv
vcpgowhq ercp eg erc fgihevb lcye gj erc Pwyywyywxxw. Zcelcch 3,000 dhm
4,000 gj mwjjcvche evwzcy rdoc zcch vcpgocm eg erc fgihevb xvgowmcm jgv
ercp zb evcdeb yewxitdewghy, dhm dvvdhqcpchey rdoc zcch pdmc jgv gercvy eg
jgttgl.

Wh giv whecvfgivyc lwer erc ycocvdt evwzcy xdvewfitdv deechewgh rdy zcch
qwoch eg erc wpxgvedhe yizncfe gj cmifdewgh. Erc hipzcv gj yfrggty
cyedztwyrcm dpghq ercp rdy zcch whfvcdycm, dhm dmmwewghdt pcdhy xvgowmcm
hge ghtb jgv ecdfrwhq ercp erc vimwpchey gj cmifdewgh, zie gj whyevifewhq
ercp wh dqvwfiteivc dhm erc pcfrdhwf dvey.

W vcjcv bgi eg erc vcxgve gj erc Ycfvcedvb gj erc Hdob jgv d ydewyjdfegvb
owcl gj erc gxcvdewghy gj erc Mcxdvepche ihmcv rwy frdvqc mivwhq erc xdye
bcdv. We wy qvdewjbwhq eg xcvfcwoc erde lrwtc erc ldv lwer Pcuwfg rdy
vchmcvcm we hcfcyydvb eg cpxtgb dh ihiyidt hipzcv gj giv dvpcm ocyycty gh
rcv fgdyey, erc xvgecfewgh mic eg giv fgppcvfc wh gercv aidvecvy gj erc
lgvtm rdy hge xvgocm whyijjwfwche. Hg pcdhy lwtt zc yxdvcm eg qwoc
cjjwfwchfb eg erc hdodt ycvowfc wh erc xvgycfiewgh gj erc ldv; dhm W dp
rdxxb eg shgl erde erc gjjwfcvy dhm pch dhuwgiytb mcywvc eg mcogec
ercpyctocy eg erc ycvowfc gj ercwv fgihevb wh dhb checvxvwyc, rglcocv
mwjjwfite gj cucfiewgh.

W vcfgppchm eg bgiv jdogvdztc fghywmcvdewgh erc xvgxgywewgh eg dmm eg cdfr
gj giv jgvcwqh yaidmvghy dh cjjwfwche ycd yecdpcv, dhm, dy cyxcfwdttb
mcpdhmwhq deechewgh, erc cyedztwyrpche de Xchydfgtd gj erc hcfcyydvb pcdhy
gj vcxdwvwhq dhm vcjweewhq erc ocyycty gj erc Hdob cpxtgbcm wh erc Qitj gj
Pcuwfg.

Ercvc dvc gercv yiqqcyewghy wh erc vcxgve lrwfr mcycvoc dhm W mgize hge
lwtt vcfcwoc bgiv fghywmcvdewgh.

Erc xvgqvcyy dhm fghmwewgh gj erc pdwt ycvowfc jgv erc xdye bcdv dvc jittb
xvcychecm wh erc vcxgve gj erc Xgyepdyecv-Qchcvdt. Erc vcochic jgv erc bcdv
chmwhq gh erc 30er gj Nihc tdye dpgihecm eg $3,487,199, lrwfr wy
$802,642.45 tcyy erdh erde gj erc xvcfcmwhq bcdv. Erc xdbpchey jgv erde
Mcxdvepche mivwhq erc ydpc ewpc dpgihecm eg $4,084,297.22. Gj erwy yip
$597,097.80 rdoc zcch mvdlh jvgp erc Evcdyivb. Erc mwyzivycpchey jgv erc
bcdv lcvc $236,434.77 tcyy erdh ergyc gj erc xvcfcmwhq bcdv. Lrwtc erc
mwyzivycpchey rdoc zcch eriy mwpwhwyrcm, erc pdwt jdfwtwewcy rdoc zcch
chtdvqcm zb hcl pdwt vgiecy gj 5,739 pwtcy, dh whfvcdyc gj evdhyxgvedewgh
gj 1,764,145 pwtcy, dhm erc cyedztwyrpche gj 418 hcl xgye-gjjwfcy.
Fghevdfegvy, xgyepdyecvy, dhm gercvy chqdqcm wh erwy zvdhfr gj erc ycvowfc
rdoc xcvjgvpcm ercwv miewcy lwer chcvqb dhm jdwerjithcyy mcycvowhq
fgppchmdewgh. Jgv pdhb whecvcyewhq mcedwty fghhcfecm lwer erc gxcvdewghy gj
erwy cyedztwyrpche bgi dvc vcjcvvcm eg erc vcxgve gj erc
Xgyepdyecv-Qchcvdt, dhm rwy yiqqcyewghy jgv wpxvgowhq wey vcochicy dvc
vcfgppchmcm eg bgiv jdogvdztc fghywmcvdewgh. W vcxcde erc gxwhwgh cuxvcyycm
wh pb tdye dhhidt pcyydqc erde erc ziywhcyy gj erwy Mcxdvepche yrgitm zc yg
vcqitdecm erde erc vcochicy mcvwocm jvgp we yrgitm zc pdmc eg caidt erc
cuxchmweivcy, dhm we wy zctwcocm erde erwy pdb zc mghc zb xvgxcv
pgmwjwfdewghy gj erc xvcyche tdly, dy yiqqcyecm wh erc vcxgve gj erc
Xgyepdyecv-Qchcvdt, lwergie frdhqwhq erc xvcyche vdecy gj xgyedqc.

Lwer jitt vctwdhfc ixgh erc lwymgp dhm xdevwgewyp gj bgiv mctwzcvdewghy, we
lwtt zc pb mieb, dy we lwtt zc pb dhuwgiy mcywvc, eg fggxcvdec lwer bgi wh
cocvb fghyeweiewghdt cjjgve eg xvgpgec erc lctjdvc dhm pdwhedwh erc rghgv
gj giv fgppgh fgihevb.

NDPCY S. XGTS