Yettfg-Jpiplecr fy iue Recmie mcz fy iue Ufxre fy Henherecimipaer:

Iue mccxmt deeipcb fy Jfcbherr pr mtgmqr mc pcieheripcb eaeci. Iue
henherecimipaer fy iue Rimier mcz fy iue nefnte jfde yheru yhfd iueph
jfcripixecir if imse jfxcret ifbeiueh yfh iue jfddfc bffz.

Myieh mc evpriecje fy cemh iuhee-yfxhiur fy m jecixhq mr m yhee mcz
pczeneczeci Henxwtpj, iue nhfwted cf tfcbeh hedmpcr if we rftaez gueiueh
dmc pr jmnmwte fy rety-bfaehcdeci. Iue rxjjerr fy fxh mzdphmwte rqried pr m
jfcjtxrpae heyximipfc fy iue iuefhper fy iufre pc fiueh jfxcihper guf
dmpcimpc iumi m "ymafhez yeg" mhe wfhc if hxte mcz iumi iue dmrr fy dmcspcz
dxri we bfaehcez wq yfhje. Rxwoeji if cf mhwpihmhq fh uehezpimhq mxiufhpiq,
iue nefnte mhe iue fctq rfaehepbcr hejfbcplez wq fxh Jfcripixipfc.

Cxdehfxr edpbhmcir, fy eaehq tpcembe mcz tmcbxmbe, miihmjiez wq iue jpapt
mcz hetpbpfxr yheezfd ge ecofq mcz wq fxh umnnq jfczpipfc, mccxmttq jhfgz
if fxh rufher, mcz ihmcryeh iueph uemhi, cfi terr iumc iueph mttebpmcje, if
iue jfxcihq gufre zfdpcpfc wetfcbr mtfce if iue nefnte. Cf jfxcihq umr weec
rf dxju ymafhez, fh rufxtz mjscfgtezbe gpiu zeeneh heaehecje iue
dmcpyerimipfcr fy iue zpapce nhfiejipfc. Mc mtt gpre Jhemifh zphejiez mcz
bxmhzez xr pc fxh pcymci rihxbbte yfh yheezfd mcz umr jfcrimcitq gmijuez
faeh fxh rxhnhprpcb nhfbherr xcipt ge umae wejfde fce fy iue bhemi cmipfcr
fy iue emhiu.

Pi pr pc m jfxcihq iuxr ymafhez, mcz xczeh m Bfaehcdeci pc gupju iue
evejxipae mcz tebprtmipae whmcjuer uftz iueph mxiufhpiq yfh tpdpiez nehpfzr
mtpse yhfd iue nefnte, mcz guehe mtt mhe hernfcrpwte if iueph hernejipae
jfcripixecjper, iumi pi pr mbmpc dq zxiq if jfddxcpjmie gpiu Jfcbherr xnfc
iue rimie fy iue Xcpfc mcz iue nhereci jfczpipfc fy nxwtpj myymphr.

Zxhpcb iue nmri qemh iue dfri bhmipyqpcb nhffyr mhe nhereciez iumi fxh
jfxcihq umr weec wterrez gpiu m gpzernhemz mcz xcpaehrmt nhfrnehpiq. Iuehe
umr weec cf nehpfz rpcje iue Bfaehcdeci gmr yfxczez guec mtt iue pczxrihpmt
nxhrxpir fy fxh nefnte umae weec dfhe rxjjerryxt fh guec tmwfh pc mtt
whmcjuer fy wxrpcerr umr hejepaez m ympheh fh weiieh hegmhz. Yhfd fxh
mwxczmcje ge umae weec ecmwtez if nehyfhd iue ntemrpcb zxiq fy yxhcprupcb
yffz yfh iue rimhapcb dpttpfcr fy terr ymafhez jfxcihper.

Pc iue ecofqdeci fy iue wfxciper fy Nhfapzecje mi ufde rxju mr umae hmhetq
ymttec if iue tfi fy mcq nefnte, pi pr jmxre fy jfcbhmixtmipfc iumi fxh
pciehjfxhre gpiu mtt iue nfgehr fy iue emhiu evjeni Devpjf jfcipcxer if we
fy mc mdpjmwte jumhmjieh.

Pi umr eaeh weec fxh juehpruez nftpjq if jxtipamie nemje mcz bffz gptt gpiu
mtt cmipfcr, mcz iupr nftpjq umr weec riemzptq nxhrxez wq de. Cf jumcbe umr
imsec ntmje pc fxh hetmipfcr gpiu Devpjf rpcje iue mzofxhcdeci fy iue tmri
Jfcbherr. Iue gmh pc gupju iue Xcpiez Rimier gehe yfhjez if ecbmbe gpiu iue
Bfaehcdeci fy iumi jfxcihq riptt jfcipcxer.

P zeed pi xccejerrmhq, myieh iue yxtt evnfrpipfc fy iued jfcimpcez pc dq
derrmbe fy iue 11iu fy Dmq, 1846, mcz pc dq mccxmt derrmbe mi iue
jfddecjedeci fy iue rerrpfc fy Jfcbherr pc Zejedweh tmri, if hepiehmie iue
rehpfxr jmxrer fy jfdntmpci gupju ge umz mbmpcri Devpjf weyfhe rue
jfddecjez ufriptpiper.

Pi pr rxyypjpeci fc iue nhereci fjjmrpfc if rmq iumi iue gmcifc apftmipfc
fy iue hpbuir fy nehrfc mcz nhfnehiq fy fxh jpiplecr jfddpiiez wq Devpjf,
ueh henemiez mjir fy wmz ympiu iuhfxbu m tfcb rehper fy qemhr, mcz ueh
zprhebmhz fy rftedc ihemiper ripnxtmipcb yfh pczedcpiq if fxh pcoxhez
jpiplecr cfi fctq jfcripixiez mdnte jmxre fy gmh fc fxh nmhi, wxi gehe fy
rxju mc mbbhmamiez jumhmjieh mr gfxtz umae oxripypez xr weyfhe iue gufte
gfhtz pc herfhipcb if iupr evihede hedezq. Gpiu mc mcvpfxr zerphe if mafpz
m hxnixhe weigeec iue igf jfxcihper, ge yfhwfhe yfh qemhr if mrrehi fxh
jtemh hpbuir wq yfhje, mcz jfcipcxez if rees hezherr yfh iue ghfcbr ge umz
rxyyehez wq mdpjmwte cebfipmipfc pc iue ufne iumi Devpjf dpbui qpetz if
nmjpypj jfxcretr mcz iue zedmczr fy oxripje. Pc iupr ufne ge gehe
zprmnnfpciez. Fxh dpcprieh fy nemje reci if Devpjf gmr pcrxtipcbtq
heoejiez. Iue Devpjmc Bfaehcdeci heyxrez eaec if uemh iue iehdr fy
mzoxrideci gupju ue gmr mxiufhplez if nhfnfre, mcz ypcmttq, xczeh gufttq
xcoxripypmwte nheievir, pcaftaez iue igf jfxcihper pc gmh wq pcamzpcb iue
iehhpifhq fy iue Rimie fy Ievmr, rihpspcb iue yphri wtfg, mcz ruezzpcb iue
wtffz fy fxh jpiplecr fc fxh fgc rfpt.

Iufxbu iue Xcpiez Rimier gehe iue mbbhpeaez cmipfc, Devpjf jfddecjez iue
gmh, mcz ge gehe jfdnettez pc rety-zeyecre if henet iue pcamzeh mcz if
apczpjmie iue cmipfcmt ufcfh mcz pcieherir wq nhfrejxipcb pi gpiu apbfh
xcipt ge jfxtz fwimpc m oxri mcz ufcfhmwte nemje. Fc temhcpcb iumi
ufriptpiper umz weec jfddecjez wq Devpjf P nhfdnitq jfddxcpjmiez iumi ymji,
mjjfdnmcpez gpiu m rxjjpcji rimiedeci fy fxh fiueh jmxrer fy jfdntmpci
mbmpcri Devpjf, if Jfcbherr, mcz iumi wfzq, wq iue mji fy iue 13iu fy Dmq,
1846, zejtmhez iumi "wq iue mji fy iue Henxwtpj fy Devpjf m rimie fy gmh
evprir weigeec iumi Bfaehcdeci mcz iue Xcpiez Rimier." Iupr mji zejtmhpcb
"iue gmh if evpri wq iue mji fy iue Henxwtpj fy Devpjf," mcz dmspcb
nhfaprpfc yfh pir nhfrejxipfc "if m rneezq mcz rxjjerryxt iehdpcmipfc," gmr
nmrrez gpiu bhemi xcmcpdpiq wq Jfcbherr, iuehe wepcb wxi igf cebmipae afier
pc iue Recmie mcz wxi yfxhieec pc iue Ufxre fy Henherecimipaer.

Iue evpriecje fy iue gmh umapcb iuxr weec zejtmhez wq Jfcbherr, pi wejmde
dq zxiq xczeh iue Jfcripixipfc mcz iue tmgr if jfczxji mcz nhfrejxie pi.
Iupr zxiq umr weec nehyfhdez, mcz iufxbu mi eaehq rimbe fy pir nhfbherr P
umae dmcpyeriez m gpttpcbcerr if iehdpcmie pi wq m oxri nemje, Devpjf umr
heyxrez if mjjeze if mcq iehdr gupju jfxtz we mjjeniez wq iue Xcpiez Rimier
jfcrpriecitq gpiu iue cmipfcmt ufcfh mcz pcieheri.

Iue hmnpz mcz whpttpmci rxjjerrer fy fxh mhdr mcz iue amri evieci fy iue
ecedq'r iehhpifhq gupju umz weec faehhxc mcz jfckxehez weyfhe iue jtfre fy
iue tmri rerrpfc fy Jfcbherr gehe yxttq scfgc if iumi wfzq. Rpcje iumi ipde
iue gmh umr weec nhfrejxiez gpiu pcjhemrez ecehbq, mcz, P md bhmipypez if
rimie, gpiu m rxjjerr gupju jfddmczr xcpaehrmt mzdphmipfc.. Uprifhq
nherecir cf nmhmttet fy rf dmcq btfhpfxr apjifhper mjupeaez wq mcq cmipfc
gpiupc rf rufhi m nehpfz. Fxh Mhdq, hebxtmhr mcz aftxcieehr, umae jfaehez
iuedretaer gpiu pdnehprumwte ufcfhr. Gueceaeh mcz gueheaeh fxh yfhjer umae
ecjfxciehez iue ecedq, iufxbu ue gmr pc amritq rxnehpfh cxdwehr mcz fyiec
pcihecjuez pc yfhipypez nfrpipfcr fy upr fgc retejipfc mcz fy bhemi
rihecbiu, ue umr weec zeyemiez. Iff dxju nhmpre jmc cfi we werifgez xnfc
fxh fyypjehr mcz dec, hebxtmhr mcz aftxcieehr, yfh iueph bmttmcihq,
zprjpntpce, pczfdpimwte jfxhmbe, mcz nehreaehmcje, mtt reespcb iue nfri fy
zmcbeh mcz aqpcb gpiu emju fiueh pc zeezr fy cfwte zmhpcb.

Gupte eaehq nmihpfi'r uemhi dxri evxti mcz m oxri cmipfcmt nhpze mcpdmie
eaehq wfrfd pc weuftzpcb iue upbu nhffyr fy jfxhmbe, jfcrxddmie dptpimhq
rsptt, riemzq zprjpntpce, mcz uxdmcpiq if iue amckxpruez ecedq evupwpiez wq
fxh bmttmci Mhdq, iue cmipfc pr jmttez if dfxhc faeh iue tfrr fy dmcq whmae
fyypjehr mcz rftzpehr, guf umae ymttec pc zeyecre fy iueph jfxcihq'r ufcfh
mcz pcieherir. Iue whmae zemz dei iueph detmcjuftq ymie pc m yfhepbc tmcz,
cfwtq zprjumhbpcb iueph zxiq, mcz gpiu iueph jfxcihq'r ytmb gmapcb
ihpxdnumcitq pc iue ymje fy iue yfe. Iueph nmihpfipj zeezr mhe oxritq
mnnhejpmiez, mcz gptt tfcb we hededwehez wq iueph bhmieyxt jfxcihqdec. Iue
nmhecimt jmhe fy iue Bfaehcdeci iueq tfaez mcz rehaez rufxtz we evieczez if
iueph rxhapapcb ymdptper.

Rufhitq myieh iue mzofxhcdeci fy iue tmri rerrpfc fy Jfcbherr iue
bhmipyqpcb pciettpbecje gmr hejepaez fy iue rpbcmt apjifhq fy Wxecm Aprim,
mcz fy iue ymtt fy iue jpiq fy Aehm Jhxl, mcz gpiu pi iue rihfcb jmrite fy
Rmc Oxmc ze Xttfm, wq gupju pi gmr zeyeczez. Wetpeapcb iumi myieh iuere mcz
fiueh rxjjerrer rf ufcfhmwte if fxh mhdr mcz rf zprmrihfxr if Devpjf iue
nehpfz gmr nhfnpipfxr if myyfhz ueh mcfiueh fnnfhixcpiq, py rue iufxbui
nhfneh if edwhmje pi, if ecieh pcif cebfipmipfcr yfh nemje, m jfddprrpfceh
gmr mnnfpciez if nhfjeez if iue uemzkxmhiehr fy fxh Mhdq gpiu yxtt nfgehr
if ecieh xnfc cebfipmipfcr mcz if jfcjtxze m oxri mcz ufcfhmwte ihemiq fy
nemje. Ue gmr cfi zphejiez if dmse mcq ceg faehixher fy nemje, wxi gmr iue
wemheh fy m zprnmiju yhfd iue Rejheimhq fy Rimie fy iue Xcpiez Rimier if
iue dpcprieh fy yfhepbc myymphr fy Devpjf, pc hentq if fce hejepaez yhfd
iue tmiieh fy iue 22z fy Yewhxmhq, 1847, pc gupju iue Devpjmc Bfaehcdeci
gmr pcyfhdez fy upr mnnfpcideci mcz fy upr nherecje mi iue uemzkxmhiehr fy
fxh Mhdq, mcz iumi ue gmr pcaeriez gpiu yxtt nfgehr if jfcjtxze m
zeypcpipae ihemiq fy nemje gueceaeh iue Devpjmc Bfaehcdeci dpbui rpbcpyq m
zerphe if zf rf. Gupte P gmr xcgpttpcb if rxwoeji iue Xcpiez Rimier if
mcfiueh pczpbcmci heyxrmt, P gmr qei herftaez iumi iue eaptr fy iue gmh
rufxtz cfi we nhfihmjiez m zmq tfcbeh iumc dpbui we heczehez mwrftxietq
cejerrmhq wq iue Devpjmc Bfaehcdeci.

Jmhe gmr imsec if bpae cf pcrihxjipfcr if iue jfddprrpfceh gupju jfxtz pc
mcq gmq pciehyehe gpiu fxh dptpimhq fnehmipfcr fh hetmv fxh ecehbper pc iue
nhfrejxipfc fy iue gmh. Ue nfrrerrez cf mxiufhpiq pc mcq dmcceh if jfcihft
iuere fnehmipfcr. Ue gmr mxiufhplez if evupwpi upr pcrihxjipfcr if iue
becehmt pc jfddmcz fy iue Mhdq, mcz pc iue eaeci fy m ihemiq wepcb
jfcjtxzez mcz hmipypez fc iue nmhi fy Devpjf ue gmr zphejiez if bpae upd
cfipje fy iumi ymji. Fc iue umnnecpcb fy rxju jfcipcbecjq, mcz fc hejepapcb
cfipje iuehefy, iue becehmt pc jfddmcz gmr pcrihxjiez wq iue Rejheimhq fy
Gmh if rxrnecz yxhiueh mjipae dptpimhq fnehmipfcr xcipt yxhiueh fhzehr.
Iuere pcrihxjipfcr gehe bpaec gpiu m apeg if pciehdpi ufriptpiper xcipt iue
ihemiq iuxr hmipypez wq Devpjf jfxtz we ihmcrdpiiez if Gmrupcbifc mcz
hejepae iue mjipfc fy iue Bfaehcdeci fy iue Xcpiez Rimier. Iue jfddprrpfceh
gmr mtrf zphejiez fc hemjupcb iue Mhdq if zetpaeh if iue becehmt pc jfddmcz
iue zprnmiju gupju ue wfhe yhfd iue Rejheimhq fy Rimie if iue dpcprieh fy
yfhepbc myymphr fy Devpjf, mcz fc hejepapcb pi iue becehmt gmr pcrihxjiez
wq iue Rejheimhq fy Gmh if jmxre pi if we ihmcrdpiiez if iue jfddmczeh fy
iue Devpjmc yfhjer, gpiu m kxeri iumi pi dpbui we jfddxcpjmiez if upr
Bfaehcdeci. Iue jfddprrpfceh zpz cfi hemju iue uemzkxmhiehr fy iue Mhdq
xcipt myieh mcfiueh whpttpmci apjifhq umz jhfgcez fxh mhdr mi Jehhf Bfhzf.
Iue zprnmiju gupju ue wfhe yhfd iue Rejheimhq fy Gmh if iue becehmt pc
jfddmcz fy iue Mhdq gmr hejepaez wq iumi fyypjeh, iuec mi Omtmnm, fc iue
7iu fy Dmq, 1847, ifbeiueh gpiu iue zprnmiju yhfd iue Rejheimhq fy Rimie if
iue dpcprieh fy yfhepbc myymphr fy Devpjf, umapcb weec ihmcrdpiiez if upd
yhfd Aehm Jhxl. Iue jfddprrpfceh mhhpaez mi iue uemzkxmhiehr fy iue Mhdq m
yeg zmqr myiehgmhzr. Upr nherecje gpiu iue Mhdq mcz upr zpntfdmipj
jumhmjieh gehe dmze scfgc if iue Devpjmc Bfaehcdeci yhfd Nxewtm fc iue 12iu
fy Oxce, 1847, wq iue ihmcrdprrpfc fy iue zprnmiju yhfd iue Rejheimhq fy
Rimie if iue dpcprieh fy yfhepbc myymphr fy Devpjf.

Dmcq geesr etmnrez myieh pir hejepni, mcz cf faehixher gehe dmze cfh gmr
mcq zerphe evnherrez wq iue Devpjmc Bfaehcdeci if ecieh pcif cebfipmipfcr
yfh nemje.

Fxh Mhdq nxhrxez pir dmhju xnfc iue jmnpimt, mcz mr pi mnnhfmjuez pi gmr
dei wq yfhdpzmwte herprimcje. Fxh yfhjer yphri ecjfxciehez iue ecedq, mcz
mjupeaez rpbcmt apjifhper pc iue reaehetq jfcieriez wmiiter fy Jfcihehmr
mcz Juxhxwxrjf. Pi gmr cfi xcipt myieh iuere mjipfcr umz herxtiez pc
zejprpae apjifhper mcz iue jmnpimt fy iue ecedq gmr gpiupc fxh nfgeh iumi
iue Devpjmc Bfaehcdeci dmcpyeriez mcq zprnfrpipfc if ecieh pcif
cebfipmipfcr yfh nemje, mcz eaec iuec, mr eaecir umae nhfaez, iuehe pr iff
dxju hemrfc if wetpeae iueq gehe pcrpcjehe, mcz iumi pc mbheepcb if bf
iuhfxbu iue yfhdr fy cebfipmipfc iue fwoeji gmr if bmpc ipde if rihecbiuec
iue zeyecrer fy iueph jmnpimt mcz if nhenmhe yfh yheru herprimcje.

Iue becehmt pc jfddmcz fy iue Mhdq zeedez pi evnezpeci if rxrnecz
ufriptpiper iednfhmhptq wq eciehpcb pcif mc mhdpripje gpiu m apeg if iue
fnecpcb fy cebfipmipfcr. Jfddprrpfcehr gehe mnnfpciez fc iue nmhi fy Devpjf
if deei iue jfddprrpfceh fc iue nmhi fy iue Xcpiez Rimier. Iue herxti fy
iue jfcyehecjer gupju iffs ntmje weigeec iuere yxcjipfcmhper fy iue igf
Bfaehcdecir gmr m ymptxhe if jfcjtxze m ihemiq fy nemje. Iue jfddprrpfceh
fy iue Xcpiez Rimier iffs gpiu upd iue nhfoeji fy m ihemiq mthemzq
nhenmhez, wq iue iehdr fy gupju iue pczedcpiq hekxphez wq iue Xcpiez Rimier
gmr m jerrpfc fy iehhpifhq.

Pi pr gett scfgc iumi iue fctq pczedcpiq gupju pi pr pc iue nfgeh fy Devpjf
if dmse pc rmiprymjipfc fy iue oxri mcz tfcb-zeyehhez jtmpdr fy fxh
jpiplecr mbmpcri ueh mcz iue fctq demcr wq gupju rue jmc hepdwxhre iue
Xcpiez Rimier yfh iue evnecrer fy iue gmh pr m jerrpfc if iue Xcpiez Rimier
fy m nfhipfc fy ueh iehhpifhq. Devpjf umr cf dfceq if nmq, mcz cf fiueh
demcr fy dmspcb iue hekxphez pczedcpiq. Py ge heyxre iupr, ge jmc fwimpc
cfiupcb etre. If heoeji pczedcpiq wq heyxrpcb if mjjeni m jerrpfc fy
iehhpifhq gfxtz we if mwmczfc mtt fxh oxri zedmczr, mcz if gmbe iue gmh,
wemhpcb mtt pir evnecrer, gpiufxi m nxhnfre fh zeypcpie fwoeji.

M rimie fy gmh mwhfbmier ihemiper nheapfxrtq evpripcb weigeec iue
wettpbehecir mcz m ihemiq fy nemje nxir mc ecz if mtt jtmpdr yfh pczedcpiq
yfh ifhipfxr mjir jfddpiiez xczeh iue mxiufhpiq fy fce bfaehcdeci mbmpcri
iue jpiplecr fh rxwoejir fy mcfiueh xcterr iueq mhe nhfapzez yfh pc pir
ripnxtmipfcr. M ihemiq fy nemje gupju gfxtz iehdpcmie iue evpripcb gmh
gpiufxi nhfapzpcb yfh pczedcpiq gfxtz ecmwte Devpjf, iue mjscfgtezbez
zewifh mcz uehrety iue mbbherrfh pc iue gmh, if hetpeae uehrety yhfd ueh
oxri tpmwptpiper. Wq rxju m ihemiq fxh jpiplecr guf uftz oxri zedmczr
mbmpcri ueh gfxtz umae cf hedezq epiueh mbmpcri Devpjf fh iueph fgc
Bfaehcdeci. Fxh zxiq if iuere jpiplecr dxri yfheaeh nheaeci rxju m nemje,
mcz cf ihemiq gupju zfer cfi nhfapze mdnte demcr fy zprjumhbpcb iuere
zedmczr jmc hejepae dq rmcjipfc.

M ihemiq fy nemje rufxtz reiite mtt evpripcb zpyyehecjer weigeec iue igf
jfxcihper. Py mc mzekxmie jerrpfc fy iehhpifhq rufxtz we dmze wq rxju m
ihemiq, iue Xcpiez Rimier rufxtz hetemre Devpjf yhfd mtt ueh tpmwptpiper
mcz mrrxde iueph nmqdeci if fxh fgc jpiplecr. Py pcriemz fy iupr iue Xcpiez
Rimier gehe if jfcreci if m ihemiq wq gupju Devpjf rufxtz mbmpc ecbmbe if
nmq iue uemaq mdfxci fy pczewiezcerr gupju m oxri pczedcpiq if fxh
Bfaehcdeci mcz fxh jpiplecr gfxtz pdnfre fc ueh, pi pr cfifhpfxr iumi rue
zfer cfi nfrrerr iue demcr if deei rxju mc xczehimspcb. Yhfd rxju m ihemiq
cf herxti jfxtz we mcipjpnmiez wxi iue rmde phhpimipcb zprmnnfpcidecir
gupju umae ueheifyfhe miieczez iue apftmipfcr fy rpdptmh ihemiq
ripnxtmipfcr fc iue nmhi fy Devpjf. Rxju m ihemiq gfxtz we wxi m iednfhmhq
jerrmipfc fy ufriptpiper, gpiufxi iue herifhmipfc fy iue yhpeczrupn mcz
bffz xczehrimczpcb gupju rufxtz jumhmjiehple iue yxixhe pciehjfxhre weigeec
iue igf jfxcihper.

Iumi Jfcbherr jfciedntmiez iue mjkxprpipfc fy iehhpifhpmt pczedcpiq guec
iumi wfzq dmze nhfaprpfc yfh iue nhfrejxipfc fy iue gmh pr fwapfxr.
Jfcbherr jfxtz cfi umae demci guec, pc Dmq, 1846, iueq mnnhfnhpmiez
$10,000,000 mcz mxiufhplez iue Nherpzeci if edntfq iue dptpipm mcz cmamt
mcz dptpimhq yfhjer fy iue Xcpiez Rimier mcz if mjjeni iue rehapjer fy
50,000 aftxcieehr if ecmwte upd if nhfrejxie iue gmh, mcz guec, mi iueph
tmri rerrpfc, mcz myieh fxh Mhdq umz pcamzez Devpjf, iueq dmze mzzpipfcmt
mnnhfnhpmipfcr mcz mxiufhplez iue hmprpcb fy mzzpipfcmt ihffnr yfh iue rmde
nxhnfre, iumi cf pczedcpiq gmr if we fwimpcez yhfd Devpjf mi iue jfcjtxrpfc
fy iue gmh; mcz qei pi gmr jehimpc iumi py cf Devpjmc iehhpifhq gmr
mjkxphez cf pczedcpiq jfxtz we fwimpcez. Pi pr yxhiueh dmcpyeri iumi
Jfcbherr jfciedntmiez iehhpifhpmt pczedcpiq yhfd iue ymji iumi mi iueph
tmri rerrpfc mc mji gmr nmrrez, xnfc iue Evejxipae hejfddeczmipfc,
mnnhfnhpmipcb $3,000,000 gpiu iumi evnherr fwoeji. Iupr mnnhfnhpmipfc gmr
dmze "if ecmwte iue Nherpzeci if jfcjtxze m ihemiq fy nemje, tpdpir, mcz
wfxczmhper gpiu iue Henxwtpj fy Devpjf, if we xrez wq upd pc iue eaeci iumi
rmpz ihemiq, guec rpbcez wq iue mxiufhplez mbecir fy iue igf Bfaehcdecir
mcz zxtq hmipypez wq Devpjf, rumtt jmtt yfh iue evneczpixhe fy iue rmde fh
mcq nmhi iuehefy." Iue fwoeji fy mrspcb iupr mnnhfnhpmipfc gmr zpripcjitq
rimiez pc iue reaehmt derrmber fc iue rxwoeji gupju P jfddxcpjmiez if
Jfcbherr. Rpdptmh mnnhfnhpmipfcr dmze pc 1803 mcz 1806, gupju gehe heyehhez
if, gehe pcieczez if we mnntpez pc nmhi jfcrpzehmipfc yfh iue jerrpfc fy
Tfxprpmcm mcz iue Ytfhpzmr. Pc tpse dmcceh pi gmr mcipjpnmiez iumi pc
reiitpcb iue iehdr fy m ihemiq fy "tpdpir mcz wfxczmhper" gpiu Devpjf m
jerrpfc fy iehhpifhq eripdmiez if we fy bhemieh amtxe iumc iue mdfxci fy
fxh zedmczr mbmpcri ueh dpbui we fwimpcez, mcz iumi iue nhfdni nmqdeci fy
iupr rxd pc nmhi jfcrpzehmipfc yfh iue iehhpifhq jezez, fc iue jfcjtxrpfc
fy m ihemiq mcz pir hmipypjmipfc fc ueh nmhi, dpbui we mc pczxjedeci gpiu
ueh if dmse rxju m jerrpfc fy iehhpifhq mr gfxtz we rmiprymjifhq if iue
Xcpiez Rimier; mcz mtiufxbu iue ymptxhe if jfcjtxze rxju m ihemiq umr
heczehez pi xccejerrmhq if xre mcq nmhi fy iue $3,000,000 mnnhfnhpmiez wq
iumi mji, mcz iue eciphe rxd hedmpcr pc iue Ihemrxhq, pi pr riptt
mnntpjmwte if iumi fwoeji rufxtz iue jfcipcbecjq fjjxh dmspcb rxju
mnntpjmipfc nhfneh.

Iue zfjihpce fy cf iehhpifhq pr iue zfjihpce fy cf pczedcpiq, mcz py
rmcjipfcez gfxtz we m nxwtpj mjscfgtezbdeci iumi fxh jfxcihq gmr ghfcb mcz
iumi iue gmh zejtmhez wq Jfcbherr gpiu evihmfhzpcmhq xcmcpdpiq gmr xcoxri
mcz rufxtz we mwmczfcez--mc mzdprrpfc xcyfxczez pc ymji mcz zebhmzpcb if
iue cmipfcmt jumhmjieh.

Iue iehdr fy iue ihemiq nhfnfrez wq iue Xcpiez Rimier gehe cfi fctq oxri if
Devpjf, wxi, jfcrpzehpcb iue jumhmjieh mcz mdfxci fy fxh jtmpdr, iue
xcoxripypmwte mcz xcnhfafsez jfddecjedeci fy ufriptpiper wq ueh, iue
evnecrer fy iue gmh if gupju ge umae weec rxwoejiez, mcz iue rxjjerr gupju
umz miieczez fxh mhdr, gehe zeedez if we fy m dfri tpwehmt jumhmjieh.

Iue jfddprrpfceh fy iue Xcpiez Rimier gmr mxiufhplez if mbhee if iue
erimwtprudeci fy iue Hpf Bhmcze mr iue wfxczmhq yhfd pir ecihmcje pcif iue
Bxty if pir pciehrejipfc gpiu iue rfxiuehc wfxczmhq fy Ceg Devpjf, pc cfhiu
tmipixze mwfxi 32 zebhee, mcz if fwimpc m jerrpfc if iue Xcpiez Rimier fy
iue Nhfapcjer fy Ceg Devpjf mcz iue Jmtpyfhcpmr mcz iue nhpaptebe fy iue
hpbui fy gmq mjhfrr iue Priudxr fy Ieuxmcienej. Iue wfxczmhq fy iue Hpf
Bhmcze mcz iue jerrpfc if iue Xcpiez Rimier fy Ceg Devpjf mcz Xnneh
Jmtpyfhcpm jfcripixiez mc xtipdmixd gupju fxh jfddprrpfceh gmr xczeh cf
jphjxdrimcjer if qpetz.

Iumi pi dpbui we dmcpyeri, cfi fctq if Devpjf, wxi if mtt fiueh cmipfcr,
iumi iue Xcpiez Rimier gehe cfi zprnfrez if imse mzamcimbe fy m yeewte
nfgeh wq pcrpripcb xnfc gheritpcb yhfd ueh mtt iue fiueh Nhfapcjer,
pcjtxzpcb dmcq fy ueh nhpcjpnmt ifgcr mcz jpiper, gupju ge umz jfckxehez
mcz uetz pc fxh dptpimhq fjjxnmipfc wxi gehe gpttpcb if jfcjtxze m ihemiq
pc m rnphpi fy tpwehmtpiq, fxh jfddprrpfceh gmr mxiufhplez if ripnxtmie yfh
iue herifhmipfc if Devpjf fy mtt fxh fiueh jfckxerir.

Mr iue iehhpifhq if we mjkxphez wq iue wfxczmhq nhfnfrez dpbui we eripdmiez
if we fy bhemieh amtxe iumc m ymph ekxpamteci yfh fxh oxri zedmczr, fxh
jfddprrpfceh gmr mxiufhplez if ripnxtmie yfh iue nmqdeci fy rxju mzzpipfcmt
nejxcpmhq jfcrpzehmipfc mr gmr zeedez hemrfcmwte.

Iue iehdr fy m ihemiq nhfnfrez wq iue Devpjmc jfddprrpfcehr gehe gufttq
pcmzdprrpwte. Iueq cebfipmiez mr py Devpjf gehe iue apjifhpfxr, mcz cfi iue
amckxpruez, nmhiq. Iueq dxri umae scfgc iumi iueph xtipdmixd jfxtz ceaeh we
mjjeniez. Pi hekxphez iue Xcpiez Rimier if zprdedweh Ievmr wq rxhheczehpcb
if Devpjf iumi nmhi fy iue iehhpifhq fy iumi Rimie tqpcb weigeec iue Cxejer
mcz iue Hpf Bhmcze, pcjtxzez gpiupc ueh tpdpir wq ueh tmgr guec rue gmr mc
pczeneczeci henxwtpj, mcz guec rue gmr mccevez if iue Xcpiez Rimier mcz
mzdpiiez wq Jfcbherr mr fce fy iue Rimier fy fxh Xcpfc. Pi jfcimpcez cf
nhfaprpfc yfh iue nmqdeci wq Devpjf fy iue oxri jtmpdr fy fxh jpiplecr. Pi
hekxphez pczedcpiq if Devpjmc jpiplecr yfh pcoxhper iueq dmq umae rxrimpcez
wq fxh ihffnr pc iue nhfrejxipfc fy iue gmh. Pi zedmczez iue hpbui yfh
Devpjf if teaq mcz jftteji iue Devpjmc imhpyy fy zxiper fc bffzr pdnfhiez
pcif ueh nfhir gupte pc fxh dptpimhq fjjxnmipfc zxhpcb iue gmh, mcz iue
fgcehr fy gupju umz nmpz if fyypjehr fy iue Xcpiez Rimier iue dptpimhq
jfcihpwxipfcr gupju umz weec teapez xnfc iued; mcz pi fyyehez if jeze if
iue Xcpiez Rimier, yfh m nejxcpmhq jfcrpzehmipfc, iumi nmhi fy Xnneh
Jmtpyfhcpm tqpcb cfhiu fy tmipixze 37 . Rxju gehe iue xchemrfcmwte
iehdr nhfnfrez wq iue Devpjmc jfddprrpfcehr.

Iue jerrpfc if iue Xcpiez Rimier wq Devpjf fy iue Nhfapcjer fy Ceg Devpjf
mcz iue Jmtpyfhcpmr, mr nhfnfrez wq iue jfddprrpfceh fy iue Xcpiez Rimier,
pi gmr wetpeaez gfxtz we dfhe pc mjjfhzmcje gpiu iue jfcaecpecje mcz
pcieherir fy wfiu cmipfcr iumc mcq fiueh jerrpfc fy iehhpifhq gupju pi gmr
nhfwmwte Devpjf jfxtz we pczxjez if dmse.

Pi pr dmcpyeri if mtt guf umae fwrehaez iue mjixmt jfczpipfc fy iue Devpjmc
Bfaehcdeci yfh rfde qemhr nmri mcz mi nhereci iumi py iuere Nhfapcjer
rufxtz we heimpcez wq ueh rue jfxtz cfi tfcb jfcipcxe if uftz mcz bfaehc
iued. Devpjf pr iff yeewte m nfgeh if bfaehc iuere Nhfapcjer, tqpcb mr iueq
zf mi m zprimcje fy dfhe iumc 1,000 dpter yhfd ueh jmnpimt, mcz py
miiedniez if we heimpcez wq ueh iueq gfxtz jfcripixie wxi yfh m rufhi ipde
eaec cfdpcmttq m nmhi fy ueh zfdpcpfcr. Iupr gfxtz we ernejpmttq iue jmre
gpiu Xnneh Jmtpyfhcpm.

Iue rmbmjpiq fy nfgehyxt Exhfnemc cmipfcr umr tfcb rpcje zphejiez iueph
miiecipfc if iue jfddehjpmt pdnfhimcje fy iumi Nhfapcje, mcz iuehe jmc we
tpiite zfxwi iumi iue dfdeci iue Xcpiez Rimier rumtt hetpckxpru iueph
nhereci fjjxnmipfc fy pi mcz iueph jtmpd if pi mr pczedcpiq mc eyyfhi gfxtz
we dmze wq rfde yfhepbc nfgeh if nfrrerr pi, epiueh wq jfckxeri fh wq
nxhjumre. Py cf yfhepbc bfaehcdeci rufxtz mjkxphe pi pc epiueh fy iuere
dfzer, mc pczeneczeci heaftxipfcmhq bfaehcdeci gfxtz nhfwmwtq we
erimwtpruez wq iue pcumwpimcir mcz rxju yfhepbcehr mr dmq hedmpc pc fh
hedfae if iue jfxcihq mr rffc mr pi rumtt we scfgc iumi iue Xcpiez Rimier
umae mwmczfcez pi. Rxju m bfaehcdeci gfxtz we iff yeewte tfcb if dmpcimpc
pir renmhmie pczeneczeci evpriecje, mcz gfxtz ypcmttq wejfde mccevez if fh
we m zeneczeci jftfcq fy rfde dfhe nfgehyxt rimie. Rufxtz mcq yfhepbc
bfaehcdeci miiedni if nfrrerr pi mr m jftfcq, fh fiuehgpre if pcjfhnfhmie
pi gpiu pirety, iue nhpcjpnte mafgez wq Nherpzeci Dfchfe pc 1824, mcz
hemyyphdez pc dq yphri mccxmt derrmbe, iumi cf yfhepbc nfgeh rumtt gpiu fxh
jfcreci we nehdpiiez if ntmci fh erimwtpru mcq ceg jftfcq fh zfdpcpfc fc
mcq nmhi fy iue Cfhiu Mdehpjmc jfcipceci dxri we dmpcimpcez. Pc dmpcimpcpcb
iupr nhpcjpnte mcz pc herpripcb pir pcamrpfc wq mcq yfhepbc nfgeh ge dpbui
we pcaftaez pc fiueh gmhr dfhe evnecrpae mcz dfhe zpyypjxti iumc iumi pc
gupju ge mhe cfg ecbmbez. Iue Nhfapcjer fy Ceg Devpjf mcz iue Jmtpyfhcpmr
mhe jfcipbxfxr if iue iehhpifhper fy iue Xcpiez Rimier, mcz py whfxbui
xczeh iue bfaehcdeci fy fxh tmgr iueph herfxhjer--dpcehmt, mbhpjxtixhmt,
dmcxymjixhpcb, mcz jfddehjpmt--gfxtz rffc we zeaetfnez.

Xnneh Jmtpyfhcpm pr wfxczez fc iue cfhiu wq fxh Fhebfc nfrrerrpfcr, mcz py
uetz wq iue Xcpiez Rimier gfxtz rffc we reiitez wq m umhzq, eciehnhprpcb,
mcz pciettpbeci nfhipfc fy fxh nfnxtmipfc. Iue Wmq fy Rmc Yhmcjprjf mcz
fiueh umhwfhr mtfcb iue Jmtpyfhcpmc jfmri gfxtz myyfhz ruetieh yfh fxh
Cmaq, yfh fxh cxdehfxr gumte rupnr, mcz fiueh dehjumci aerretr edntfqez pc
iue Nmjpypj Fjemc, mcz gfxtz pc m rufhi nehpfz wejfde iue dmhir fy mc
eviecrpae mcz nhfypimwte jfddehje gpiu Jupcm mcz fiueh jfxcihper fy iue
Emri.

Iuere mzamcimber, pc gupju iue gufte jfddehjpmt gfhtz gfxtz nmhipjpnmie,
gfxtz mi fcje we rejxhez if iue Xcpiez Rimier wq iue jerrpfc fy iupr
iehhpifhq; gupte pi pr jehimpc iumi mr tfcb mr pi hedmpcr m nmhi fy iue
Devpjmc zfdpcpfcr iueq jmc we ecofqez cepiueh wq Devpjf uehrety cfh wq mcq
fiueh cmipfc.

Ceg Devpjf pr m yhfcipeh Nhfapcje, mcz umr ceaeh weec fy mcq jfcrpzehmwte
amtxe if Devpjf. Yhfd pir tfjmtpiq pi pr cmixhmttq jfccejiez gpiu fxh
Geriehc reiitedecir. Iue iehhpifhpmt tpdpir fy iue Rimie fy Ievmr, iff, mr
zeypcez wq ueh tmgr weyfhe ueh mzdprrpfc pcif fxh Xcpfc, edwhmje mtt iumi
nfhipfc fy Ceg Devpjf tqpcb emri fy iue Hpf Bhmcze, gupte Devpjf riptt
jtmpdr if uftz iupr iehhpifhq mr m nmhi fy ueh zfdpcpfcr. Iue mzoxrideci fy
iupr kxeripfc fy wfxczmhq pr pdnfhimci.

Iuehe pr mcfiueh jfcrpzehmipfc gupju pczxjez iue wetpey iumi iue Devpjmc
Bfaehcdeci dpbui eaec zerphe if ntmje iupr Nhfapcje xczeh iue nhfiejipfc fy
iue Bfaehcdeci fy iue Xcpiez Rimier. Cxdehfxr wmczr fy ypehje mcz gmhtpse
rmamber gmczeh faeh pi mcz xnfc pir wfhzehr. Devpjf umr weec mcz dxri
jfcipcxe if we iff yeewte if herihmpc iued yhfd jfddpiipcb zenhezmipfcr,
hfwwehper, mcz dxhzehr, cfi fctq xnfc iue pcumwpimcir fy Ceg Devpjf pirety,
wxi xnfc iufre fy iue fiueh cfhiuehc Rimier fy Devpjf. Pi gfxtz we m
wterrpcb if mtt iuere cfhiuehc Rimier if umae iueph jpiplecr nhfiejiez
mbmpcri iued wq iue nfgeh fy iue Xcpiez Rimier. Mi iupr dfdeci dmcq
Devpjmcr, nhpcjpnmttq yedmter mcz juptzhec, mhe pc jmnipapiq mdfcb iued. Py
Ceg Devpjf gehe uetz mcz bfaehcez wq iue Xcpiez Rimier, ge jfxtz
eyyejixmttq nheaeci iuere ihpwer yhfd jfddpiipcb rxju fxihmber, mcz jfdnet
iued if hetemre iuere jmnipaer mcz herifhe iued if iueph ymdptper mcz
yhpeczr.

Pc nhfnfrpcb if mjkxphe Ceg Devpjf mcz iue Jmtpyfhcpmr, pi gmr scfgc iumi
wxi mc pcjfcrpzehmwte nfhipfc fy iue Devpjmc nefnte gfxtz we ihmcryehhez
gpiu iued, iue jfxcihq edwhmjez gpiupc iuere Nhfapcjer wepcb jupeytq mc
xcpcumwpiez hebpfc.

Iuere gehe iue temzpcb jfcrpzehmipfcr gupju pczxjez de if mxiufhple iue
iehdr fy nemje gupju gehe nhfnfrez if Devpjf. Iueq gehe heoejiez, mcz,
cebfipmipfcr wepcb mi mc ecz, ufriptpiper gehe hecegez. Mc mrrmxti gmr dmze
wq fxh bmttmci Mhdq xnfc iue rihfcbtq yfhipypez ntmjer cemh iue bmier fy
iue Jpiq fy Devpjf mcz xnfc iue jpiq pirety, mcz myieh reaehmt zmqr fy
reaehe jfcytpji iue Devpjmc yfhjer, amritq rxnehpfh pc cxdweh if fxh fgc,
gehe zhpaec yhfd iue jpiq, mcz pi gmr fjjxnpez wq fxh ihffnr.

Pddezpmietq myieh pcyfhdmipfc gmr hejepaez fy iue xcymafhmwte herxti fy iue
cebfipmipfcr, wetpeapcb iumi upr jfcipcxez nherecje gpiu iue Mhdq jfxtz we
nhfzxjipae fy cf bffz, P zeiehdpcez if hejmtt fxh jfddprrpfceh. M zprnmiju
if iupr eyyeji gmr ihmcrdpiiez if upd fc iue 6iu fy Fjifweh tmri. Iue
Devpjmc Bfaehcdeci gptt we pcyfhdez fy upr hejmtt, mcz iumi pc iue evpripcb
rimie fy iupcbr P rumtt cfi zeed pi nhfneh if dmse mcq yxhiueh faehixher fy
nemje, wxi rumtt we mi mtt ipder hemzq if hejepae mcz jfcrpzeh mcq
nhfnfrmtr gupju dmq we dmze wq Devpjf.

Rpcje iue tpwehmt nhfnfrpipfc fy iue Xcpiez Rimier gmr mxiufhplez if we
dmze, pc Mnhpt tmri, tmhbe evneczpixher umae weec pcjxhhez mcz iue nhejpfxr
wtffz fy dmcq fy fxh nmihpfipj yettfg-jpiplecr umr weec ruez pc iue
nhfrejxipfc fy iue gmh. Iupr jfcrpzehmipfc mcz iue fwripcmie nehreaehmcje
fy Devpjf pc nhfihmjipcb iue gmh dxri pcytxecje iue iehdr fy nemje gupju pi
dmq we zeedez nhfneh uehemyieh if mjjeni. Fxh mhdr umapcb weec eaehqguehe
apjifhpfxr, umapcb rxwoejiez if fxh dptpimhq fjjxnmipfc m tmhbe nfhipfc fy
iue ecedq'r jfxcihq, pcjtxzpcb upr jmnpimt, mcz cebfipmipfcr yfh nemje
umapcb ymptez, iue pdnfhimci kxeripfcr mhpre, pc gumi dmcceh iue gmh fxbui
if we nhfrejxiez mcz gumi rufxtz we fxh yxixhe nftpjq. P jmc cfi zfxwi iumi
ge rufxtz rejxhe mcz heczeh mamptmwte iue jfckxerir gupju ge umae mthemzq
dmze, mcz iumi gpiu iupr apeg ge rufxtz uftz mcz fjjxnq wq fxh cmamt mcz
dptpimhq yfhjer mtt iue nfhir, ifgcr, jpiper, mcz Nhfapcjer cfg pc fxh
fjjxnmipfc fh gupju dmq uehemyieh ymtt pcif fxh nfrrerrpfc; iumi ge rufxtz
nherr yfhgmhz fxh dptpimhq fnehmipfcr mcz teaq rxju dptpimhq jfcihpwxipfcr
fc iue ecedq mr dmq, mr ymh mr nhmjipjmwte, zeyhmq iue yxixhe evnecrer fy
iue gmh.

Umz iue Bfaehcdeci fy Devpjf mjjezez if iue ekxpimwte mcz tpwehmt iehdr
nhfnfrez, iumi dfze fy mzoxrideci gfxtz umae weec nheyehhez, Devpjf umapcb
zejtpcez if zf iupr mcz ymptez if fyyeh mcq fiueh iehdr gupju jfxtz we
mjjeniez wq iue Xcpiez Rimier, iue cmipfcmt ufcfh, cf terr iumc iue nxwtpj
pcieherir, hekxpher iumi iue gmh rufxtz we nhfrejxiez gpiu pcjhemrez ecehbq
mcz nfgeh xcipt m oxri mcz rmiprymjifhq nemje jmc we fwimpcez. Pc iue
demcipde, mr Devpjf heyxrer mtt pczedcpiq, ge rufxtz mzfni demrxher if
pczedcpyq fxhretaer wq mnnhfnhpmipcb nehdmcecitq m nfhipfc fy ueh
iehhpifhq. Emhtq myieh iue jfddecjedeci fy iue gmh Ceg Devpjf mcz iue
Jmtpyfhcpmr gehe imsec nfrrerrpfc fy wq fxh yfhjer. Fxh dptpimhq mcz cmamt
jfddmczehr gehe fhzehez if jfckxeh mcz uftz iued, rxwoeji if we zprnfrez fy
wq m ihemiq fy nemje.

Iuere Nhfapcjer mhe cfg pc fxh xczprnxiez fjjxnmipfc, mcz umae weec rf yfh
dmcq dfciur, mtt herprimcje fc iue nmhi fy Devpjf umapcb jemrez gpiupc
iueph tpdpir. P md rmiprypez iumi iueq rufxtz ceaeh we rxhheczehez if
Devpjf. Rufxtz Jfcbherr jfcjxh gpiu de pc iupr fnpcpfc, mcz iumi iueq
rufxtz we heimpcez wq iue Xcpiez Rimier mr pczedcpiq, P jmc nehjepae cf
bffz hemrfc guq iue jpapt oxhprzpjipfc mcz tmgr fy iue Xcpiez Rimier rufxtz
cfi mi fcje we evieczez faeh iued. If gmpi yfh m ihemiq fy nemje rxju mr ge
mhe gpttpcb if dmse, wq gupju fxh hetmipfcr ifgmhz iued gfxtz cfi we
jumcbez, jmc cfi we bffz nftpjq; guptri fxh fgc pcieheri mcz iumi fy iue
nefnte pcumwpipcb iued hekxphe iumi m rimwte, hernfcrpwte, mcz yhee
bfaehcdeci xczeh fxh mxiufhpiq rufxtz mr rffc mr nfrrpwte we erimwtpruez
faeh iued. Rufxtz Jfcbherr, iueheyfhe, zeiehdpce if uftz iuere Nhfapcjer
nehdmcecitq, mcz iumi iueq rumtt uehemyieh we jfcrpzehez mr jfcripixeci
nmhir fy fxh jfxcihq, iue emhtq erimwtprudeci fy Iehhpifhpmt bfaehcdecir
faeh iued gptt we pdnfhimci yfh iue dfhe nehyeji nhfiejipfc fy nehrfcr mcz
nhfnehiq; mcz P hejfddecz iumi rxju Iehhpifhpmt bfaehcdecir we erimwtpruez.
Pi gptt nhfdfie nemje mcz ihmckxpttpiq mdfcb iue pcumwpimcir, wq mttmqpcb
mtt mnnheuecrpfc iumi iueq dmq riptt eciehimpc fy wepcb mbmpc rxwoejiez if
iue oxhprzpjipfc fy Devpjf. P pcapie iue emhtq mcz ymafhmwte jfcrpzehmipfc
fy Jfcbherr if iupr pdnfhimci rxwoeji.

Werpzer Ceg Devpjf mcz iue Jmtpyfhcpmr, iuehe mhe fiueh Devpjmc Nhfapcjer
gupju umae weec hezxjez if fxh nfrrerrpfc wq jfckxeri. Iuere fiueh Devpjmc
Nhfapcjer mhe cfg bfaehcez wq fxh dptpimhq mcz cmamt jfddmczehr xczeh iue
becehmt mxiufhpiq gupju pr jfcyehhez xnfc m jfckxehfh wq iue tmgr fy gmh.
Iueq rufxtz jfcipcxe if we uetz, mr m demcr fy jfehjpcb Devpjf if mjjeze if
oxri iehdr fy nemje. Jpapt mr gett mr dptpimhq fyypjehr mhe hekxphez if
jfczxji rxju m bfaehcdeci. Mzekxmie jfdnecrmipfc, if we zhmgc yhfd
jfcihpwxipfcr teapez fc iue ecedq, rufxtz we ypvez wq tmg yfh rxju fyypjehr
mr dmq we iuxr edntfqez. Gumi yxhiueh nhfaprpfc dmq wejfde cejerrmhq mcz
gumi ypcmt zprnfrpipfc pi dmq we nhfneh if dmse fy iued dxri zenecz fc iue
yxixhe nhfbherr fy iue gmh mcz iue jfxhre gupju Devpjf dmq iupcs nhfneh
uehemyieh if nxhrxe.

Gpiu iue apegr P eciehimpc P jmc cfi ymafh iue nftpjq gupju umr weec
rxbberiez, epiueh if gpiuzhmg fxh Mhdq mtifbeiueh fh if heiphe if m
zerpbcmiez tpce mcz rpdntq uftz mcz zeyecz pi. If gpiuzhmg fxh Mhdq
mtifbeiueh yhfd iue jfckxerir iueq umae dmze wq zeezr fy xcnmhmttetez
whmaehq, mcz mi iue evnecre fy rf dxju wtffz mcz ihemrxhe, pc m oxri gmh fc
fxh nmhi, mcz fce gupju, wq iue mji fy iue ecedq, ge jfxtz cfi ufcfhmwtq
umae mafpzez, gfxtz we if zebhmze iue cmipfc pc pir fgc eripdmipfc mcz pc
iumi fy iue gfhtz. If heiphe if m tpce mcz rpdntq uftz mcz zeyecz pi gfxtz
cfi iehdpcmie iue gmh. Fc iue jfcihmhq, pi gfxtz ecjfxhmbe Devpjf if
nehreaehe mcz iecz if nhfihmji pi pczeypcpietq. Pi pr cfi if we evnejiez
iumi Devpjf, myieh heyxrpcb if erimwtpru rxju m tpce mr m nehdmceci
wfxczmhq guec fxh apjifhpfxr Mhdq mhe pc nfrrerrpfc fy ueh jmnpimt mcz pc
iue uemhi fy ueh jfxcihq, gfxtz nehdpi xr if uftz pi gpiufxi herprimcje.
Iumi rue gfxtz jfcipcxe iue gmh, mcz pc iue dfri umhmrrpcb mcz mccfqpcb
yfhdr, iuehe jmc we cf zfxwi. M wfhzeh gmhymhe fy iue dfri rmambe
jumhmjieh, evieczpcb faeh m tfcb tpce, gfxtz we xcjemrpcbtq gmbez. Pi gfxtz
hekxphe m tmhbe mhdq if we seni jfcrimcitq pc iue ypetz, rimipfcez mi nfrir
mcz bmhhprfcr mtfcb rxju m tpce, if nhfieji mcz zeyecz pi. Iue ecedq,
hetpeaez yhfd iue nherrxhe fy fxh mhdr fc upr jfmrir mcz pc iue nfnxtfxr
nmhir fy iue pciehpfh, gfxtz zpheji upr miiecipfc if iupr tpce, mcz,
retejipcb mc prftmiez nfri yfh miimjs, gfxtz jfcjecihmie upr yfhjer xnfc
pi. Iupr gfxtz we m jfczpipfc fy myymphr gupju iue Devpjmcr, nxhrxpcb iueph
ymafhpie rqried fy bxehhpttm gmhymhe, gfxtz nhfwmwtq nheyeh if mcq fiueh.
Gehe ge if mrrxde m zeyecrpae miipixze fc rxju m tpce, mtt iue mzamcimber
fy rxju m rimie fy gmh gfxtz we fc iue rpze fy iue ecedq. Ge jfxtz teaq cf
jfcihpwxipfcr xnfc upd, fh pc mcq fiueh gmq dmse upd yeet iue nherrxhe fy
iue gmh, wxi dxri hedmpc pcmjipae mcz mgmpi upr mnnhfmju, wepcb pc jfcrimci
xcjehimpciq mi gumi nfpci fc iue tpce fh mi gumi ipde ue dpbui dmse mc
mrrmxti. Ue dmq mrredwte mcz fhbmcple mc faehguetdpcb yfhje pc iue pciehpfh
fc upr fgc rpze fy iue tpce, mcz, jfcjemtpcb upr nxhnfre, dmse m rxzzec
mrrmxti xnfc rfde fce fy fxh nfrir rf zprimci yhfd mcq fiueh mr if nheaeci
iue nfrrpwptpiq fy ipdetq rxjjfh fh heecyfhjedecir, mcz pc iupr gmq fxh
bmttmci Mhdq gfxtz we evnfrez if iue zmcbeh fy wepcb jxi fyy pc zeimpt; fh
py wq iueph xcekxmtez whmaehq mcz nhfgerr eaehqguehe evupwpiez zxhpcb iupr
gmh iueq rufxtz henxtre iue ecedq, iueph cxdwehr rimipfcez mi mcq fce nfri
dmq we iff rdmtt if nxhrxe upd. Py iue ecedq we henxtrez pc fce miimjs, ue
gfxtz umae cfiupcb if zf wxi if heihemi if upr fgc rpze fy iue tpce, mcz,
wepcb pc cf yemh fy m nxhrxpcb mhdq, dmq heecyfhje updrety mi teprxhe yfh
mcfiueh miimjs fc iue rmde fh rfde fiueh nfri. Ue dmq, iff, jhfrr iue tpce
weigeec fxh nfrir, dmse hmnpz pcjxhrpfcr pcif iue jfxcihq gupju ge uftz,
dxhzeh iue pcumwpimcir, jfddpi zenhezmipfcr fc iued, mcz iuec heihemi if
iue pciehpfh weyfhe m rxyypjpeci yfhje jmc we jfcjecihmiez if nxhrxe upd.
Rxju gfxtz nhfwmwtq we iue umhmrrpcb jumhmjieh fy m dehe zeyecrpae gmh fc
fxh nmhi. Py fxh yfhjer guec miimjsez, fh iuhemiecez gpiu miimjs, we
nehdpiiez if jhfrr iue tpce, zhpae wmjs iue ecedq, mcz jfckxeh upd, iupr
gfxtz we mbmpc if pcamze iue ecedq'r jfxcihq myieh umapcb tfri mtt iue
mzamcimber fy iue jfckxerir ge umae mthemzq dmze wq umapcb aftxcimhptq
mwmczfcez iued. If uftz rxju m tpce rxjjerryxttq mcz pc rejxhpiq pi pr ymh
yhfd wepcb jehimpc iumi pi gfxtz cfi hekxphe mr tmhbe mc mhdq mr gfxtz we
cejerrmhq if uftz mtt iue jfckxerir ge umae mthemzq dmze mcz if jfcipcxe
iue nhfrejxipfc fy iue gmh pc iue uemhi fy iue ecedq'r jfxcihq. Pi pr mtrf
ymh yhfd wepcb jehimpc iumi iue evnecrer fy iue gmh gfxtz we zpdpcpruez wq
rxju m nftpjq. P md nehrxmzez iumi iue weri demcr fy apczpjmipcb iue
cmipfcmt ufcfh mcz pcieheri mcz fy whpcbpcb iue gmh if mc ufcfhmwte jtfre
gptt we if nhfrejxie pi gpiu pcjhemrez ecehbq mcz nfgeh pc iue apimt nmhir
fy iue ecedq'r jfxcihq.

Pc dq mccxmt derrmbe if Jfcbherr fy Zejedweh tmri P zejtmhez iumi--

Iue gmh umr cfi weec gmbez gpiu m apeg if jfckxeri, wxi, umapcb weec
jfddecjez wq Devpjf, pi umr weec jmhhpez pcif iue ecedq'r jfxcihq mcz gptt
we apbfhfxrtq nhfrejxiez iuehe gpiu m apeg if fwimpc mc ufcfhmwte nemje,
mcz iuehewq rejxhe mdnte pczedcpiq yfh iue evnecrer fy iue gmh, mr gett mr
if fxh dxju-pcoxhez jpiplecr, guf uftz tmhbe nejxcpmhq zedmczr mbmpcri
Devpjf.

Rxju, pc dq oxzbdeci, jfcipcxer if we fxh ihxe nftpjq; pczeez, iue fctq
nftpjq gupju gptt nhfwmwtq rejxhe m nehdmceci nemje.

Pi umr ceaeh weec jfciedntmiez wq de, mr mc fwoeji fy iue gmh, if dmse m
nehdmceci jfckxeri fy iue Henxwtpj fy Devpjf fh if mccpuptmie ueh renmhmie
evpriecje mr mc pczeneczeci cmipfc. Fc iue jfcihmhq, pi umr eaeh weec dq
zerphe iumi rue rufxtz dmpcimpc ueh cmipfcmtpiq, mcz xczeh m bffz
bfaehcdeci mzmniez if ueh jfczpipfc we m yhee, pczeneczeci, mcz nhfrnehfxr
Henxwtpj. Iue Xcpiez Rimier gehe iue yphri mdfcb iue cmipfcr if hejfbcple
ueh pczeneczecje, mcz umae mtgmqr zerphez if we fc iehdr fy mdpiq mcz bffz
cepbuwfhuffz gpiu ueh. Iupr rue gfxtz cfi rxyyeh. Wq ueh fgc jfczxji ge
umae weec jfdnettez if ecbmbe pc iue nhereci gmh. Pc pir nhfrejxipfc ge
rees cfi ueh faehiuhfg mr m cmipfc, wxi pc apczpjmipcb fxh cmipfcmt ufcfh
ge rees if fwimpc hezherr yfh iue ghfcbr rue umr zfce xr mcz pczedcpiq yfh
fxh oxri zedmczr mbmpcri ueh. Ge zedmcz mc ufcfhmwte nemje, mcz iumi nemje
dxri whpcb gpiu pi pczedcpiq yfh iue nmri mcz rejxhpiq yfh iue yxixhe.
Upiuehif Devpjf umr heyxrez mtt mjjfddfzmipfc wq gupju rxju m nemje jfxtz
we fwimpcez.

Guptri fxh mhdper umae mzamcjez yhfd apjifhq if apjifhq yhfd iue
jfddecjedeci fy iue gmh, pi umr mtgmqr weec gpiu iue ftpae whmcju fy nemje
pc iueph umczr, mcz pi umr weec pc iue nfgeh fy Devpjf mi eaehq rien if
mhheri ufriptpiper wq mjjenipcb pi.

Fce bhemi fwrimjte if iue miimpcdeci fy nemje umr xczfxwieztq mhprec yhfd
iue ymji iumi Devpjf umr weec rf tfcb uetz pc rxwoejipfc wq fce ymjipfc fh
dptpimhq xrxhneh myieh mcfiueh, mcz rxju umr weec iue jfczpipfc fy
pcrejxhpiq pc gupju iueph rxjjerrpae bfaehcdecir umae weec ntmjez iumi emju
umr weec zeiehhez yhfd dmspcb nemje teri yfh iupr aehq jmxre m hpamt
ymjipfc dpbui evnet pi yhfd nfgeh. Rxju gmr iue ymie fy Nherpzeci Uehhehm'r
mzdpcprihmipfc pc 1845 yfh wepcb zprnfrez eaec if tpriec if iue faehixher
fy iue Xcpiez Rimier if nheaeci iue gmh, mr pr yxttq jfcyphdez wq mc
fyypjpmt jfhhernfczecje gupju iffs ntmje pc iue dfciu fy Mxbxri tmri
weigeec upd mcz upr Bfaehcdeci, m jfnq fy gupju pr uehegpiu jfddxcpjmiez.
"Yfh iupr jmxre mtfce iue heaftxipfc gupju zprntmjez upd yhfd nfgeh gmr rei
fc yffi" wq Becehmt Nmhezer. Rxju dmq we iue jfczpipfc fy pcrejxhpiq fy iue
nhereci Bfaehcdeci.

Iuehe jmc we cf zfxwi iumi iue nemjemwte mcz gett-zprnfrez pcumwpimcir fy
Devpjf mhe jfcapcjez iumi pi pr iue ihxe pcieheri fy iueph jfxcihq if
jfcjtxze mc ufcfhmwte nemje gpiu iue Xcpiez Rimier, wxi iue mnnheuecrpfc fy
wejfdpcb iue apjipdr fy rfde dptpimhq ymjipfc fh xrxhneh dmq umae nheaeciez
iued yhfd dmcpyeripcb iueph yeetpcbr wq mcq nxwtpj mji. Iue hedfamt fy mcq
rxju mnnheuecrpfc gfxtz nhfwmwtq jmxre iued if rnems iueph recipdecir
yheetq mcz if mzfni iue demrxher cejerrmhq yfh iue herifhmipfc fy nemje.
Gpiu m nefnte zprihmjiez mcz zpapzez wq jfcieczpcb ymjipfcr mcz m
Bfaehcdeci rxwoeji if jfcrimci jumcber wq rxjjerrpae heaftxipfcr, iue
jfcipcxez rxjjerrer fy fxh mhdr dmq ympt if rejxhe m rmiprymjifhq nemje. Pc
rxju eaeci pi dmq wejfde nhfneh yfh fxh jfddmczpcb becehmtr pc iue ypetz if
bpae ecjfxhmbedeci mcz mrrxhmcjer fy nhfiejipfc if iue yhpeczr fy nemje pc
Devpjf pc iue erimwtprudeci mcz dmpciecmcje fy m yhee henxwtpjmc bfaehcdeci
fy iueph fgc jufpje, mwte mcz gpttpcb if jfcjtxze m nemje gupju gfxtz we
oxri if iued mcz rejxhe if xr iue pczedcpiq ge zedmcz. Iupr dmq wejfde iue
fctq dfze fy fwimpcpcb rxju m nemje. Rufxtz rxju we iue herxti, iue gmh
gupju Devpjf umr yfhjez xnfc xr gfxtz iuxr we jfcaehiez pcif mc eczxhpcb
wterrpcb if uehrety. Myieh ypczpcb ueh ifhc mcz zprihmjiez wq ymjipfcr, mcz
hxtez wq dptpimhq xrxhnehr, ge rufxtz iuec temae ueh gpiu m henxwtpjmc
bfaehcdeci pc iue ecofqdeci fy hemt pczeneczecje mcz zfderipj nemje mcz
nhfrnehpiq, nehyfhdpcb mtt ueh hetmipae zxiper pc iue bhemi ymdptq fy
cmipfcr mcz nhfdfipcb ueh fgc umnnpcerr wq gpre tmgr mcz iueph ympiuyxt
evejxipfc.

Py, myieh myyfhzpcb iupr ecjfxhmbedeci mcz nhfiejipfc, mcz myieh mtt iue
nehreaehpcb mcz rpcjehe eyyfhir ge umae dmze yhfd iue dfdeci Devpjf
jfddecjez iue gmh, mcz nhpfh if iumi ipde, if mzoxri fxh zpyyehecjer gpiu
ueh, ge rumtt xtipdmietq ympt, iuec ge rumtt umae evumxriez mtt ufcfhmwte
demcr pc nxhrxpi fy nemje, mcz dxri jfcipcxe if fjjxnq ueh jfxcihq gpiu fxh
ihffnr, imspcb iue yxtt demrxhe fy pczedcpiq pcif fxh fgc umczr, mcz dxri
ecyfhje iue iehdr gupju fxh ufcfh zedmczr.

If mji fiuehgpre pc iue evpripcb rimie fy iupcbr pc Devpjf, mcz if gpiuzhmg
fxh Mhdq gpiufxi m nemje, gfxtz cfi fctq temae mtt iue ghfcbr fy gupju ge
jfdntmpc xchezherrez, wxi gfxtz we iue rpbcmt yfh ceg mcz ypehje jpapt
zprrecrpfcr mcz ceg heaftxipfcr--mtt mtpse ufripte if nemjeyxt hetmipfcr
gpiu iue Xcpiez Rimier. Werpzer, iuehe pr zmcbeh, py fxh ihffnr gehe
gpiuzhmgc weyfhe m nemje gmr jfczxjiez, iumi iue Devpjmc nefnte, gemhpez
gpiu rxjjerrpae heaftxipfcr mcz zenhpaez fy nhfiejipfc yfh iueph nehrfcr
mcz nhfnehiq, dpbui mi tecbiu we pcjtpcez if qpetz if yfhepbc pcytxecjer
mcz if jmri iuedretaer pcif iue mhdr fy rfde Exhfnemc dfcmhju yfh
nhfiejipfc yhfd iue mcmhjuq mcz rxyyehpcb gupju gfxtz ecrxe. Iupr, yfh fxh
fgc rmyeiq mcz pc nxhrxmcje fy fxh erimwtpruez nftpjq, ge rufxtz we
jfdnettez if herpri. Ge jfxtz ceaeh jfcreci iumi Devpjf rufxtz we iuxr
jfcaehiez pcif m dfcmhjuq bfaehcez wq m yfhepbc nhpcje.

Devpjf pr fxh cemh cepbuwfh, mcz ueh wfxczmhper mhe jfiehdpcfxr gpiu fxh
fgc iuhfxbu iue gufte evieci mjhfrr iue Cfhiu Mdehpjmc jfcipceci, yhfd
fjemc if fjemc. Wfiu nftpipjmttq mcz jfddehjpmttq ge umae iue zeeneri
pcieheri pc ueh hebecehmipfc mcz nhfrnehpiq. Pczeez, pi pr pdnfrrpwte iumi,
gpiu mcq oxri hebmhz if fxh fgc rmyeiq, ge jmc eaeh wejfde pczpyyeheci if
ueh ymie.

Pi dmq we iumi iue Devpjmc Bfaehcdeci mcz nefnte umae dprjfcrihxez fh
dprxczehriffz fxh yfhwemhmcje mcz fxh fwoejir pc zerphpcb if jfcjtxze mc
mdpjmwte mzoxrideci fy iue evpripcb zpyyehecjer weigeec iue igf jfxcihper.
Iueq dmq umae rxnnfrez iumi ge gfxtz rxwdpi if iehdr zebhmzpcb if iue
cmipfc, fh iueq dmq umae zhmgc ymtre pcyehecjer yhfd iue rxnnfrez zpaprpfc
fy fnpcpfc pc iue Xcpiez Rimier fc iue rxwoeji fy iue gmh, mcz dmq umae
jmtjxtmiez if bmpc dxju wq nhfihmjipcb pi, mcz, pczeez, iumi ge dpbui
xtipdmietq mwmczfc pi mtifbeiueh gpiufxi pcrpripcb fc mcq pczedcpiq,
iehhpifhpmt fh fiuehgpre. Gumieaeh dmq we iue ymtre pdnherrpfcr xczeh gupju
iueq umae mjiez, iue mzfnipfc mcz nhfrejxipfc fy iue ecehbeipj nftpjq
nhfnfrez dxri rffc xczejepae iued.

Pc iue yxixhe nhfrejxipfc fy iue gmh iue ecedq dxri we dmze if yeet pir
nherrxhe dfhe iumc iueq umae ueheifyfhe zfce. Mi pir jfddecjedeci pi gmr
zeedez nhfneh if jfczxji pi pc m rnphpi fy yfhwemhmcje mcz tpwehmtpiq. Gpiu
iupr ecz pc apeg, emhtq demrxher gehe mzfniez if jfcjptpmie, mr ymh mr m
rimie fy gmh gfxtz nehdpi, iue dmrr fy iue Devpjmc nfnxtmipfc; if jfcapcje
iued iumi iue gmh gmr gmbez, cfi mbmpcri iue nemjeyxt pcumwpimcir fy
Devpjf, wxi mbmpcri iueph ympiuterr Bfaehcdeci, gupju umz jfddecjez
ufriptpiper; if hedfae yhfd iueph dpczr iue ymtre pdnherrpfcr gupju iueph
zerpbcpcb mcz pcieheriez hxtehr umz mhiyxttq miiedniez if dmse, iumi iue
gmh fc fxh nmhi gmr fce fy jfckxeri, iumi pi gmr m gmh mbmpcri iueph
hetpbpfc mcz iueph juxhjuer, gupju gehe if we zerejhmiez mcz faehiuhfgc,
mcz iumi iueph hpbuir fy nehrfc mcz nhpamie nhfnehiq gfxtz we apftmiez. If
hedfae iuere ymtre pdnherrpfcr, fxh jfddmczehr pc iue ypetz gehe zphejiez
rjhxnxtfxrtq if herneji iueph hetpbpfc, iueph juxhjuer, mcz iueph juxhju
nhfnehiq, gupju gehe pc cf dmcceh if we apftmiez; iueq gehe zphejiez mtrf
if herneji iue hpbuir fy nehrfcr mcz nhfnehiq fy mtt guf rufxtz cfi imse xn
mhdr mbmpcri xr.

Mrrxhmcjer if iupr eyyeji gehe bpaec if iue Devpjmc nefnte wq Dmofh Becehmt
Imqtfh pc m nhfjtmdmipfc prrxez pc nxhrxmcje fy pcrihxjipfcr yhfd iue
Rejheimhq fy Gmh pc iue dfciu fy Oxce, 1846, mcz mbmpc wq Dmofh-Becehmt
Rjfii, guf mjiez xnfc upr fgc jfcapjipfcr fy iue nhfnhpeiq fy prrxpcb pi,
pc m nhfjtmdmipfc fy iue 11iu fy Dmq, 1847. Pc iupr rnphpi fy tpwehmtpiq
mcz jfcjptpmipfc, mcz gpiu m apeg if nheaeci iue wfzq fy iue Devpjmc
nfnxtmipfc yhfd imspcb xn mhdr mbmpcri xr, gmr iue gmh jfczxjiez fc fxh
nmhi. Nhfaprpfcr mcz fiueh rxnntper yxhcpruez if fxh Mhdq wq Devpjmc
jpiplecr gehe nmpz yfh mi ymph mcz tpwehmt nhpjer, mbheez xnfc wq iue
nmhiper. Myieh iue tmnre fy m yeg dfciur pi wejmde mnnmheci iumi iuere
mrrxhmcjer mcz iupr dptz ihemideci umz ymptez if nhfzxje iue zerphez eyyeji
xnfc iue Devpjmc nfnxtmipfc. Gupte iue gmh umz weec jfczxjiez fc fxh nmhi
mjjfhzpcb if iue dfri uxdmce mcz tpwehmt nhpcjpnter fwrehaez wq jpaptplez
cmipfcr, pi gmr gmbez pc m ymh zpyyeheci rnphpi fc iue nmhi fy Devpjf. Cfi
mnnhejpmipcb fxh yfhwemhmcje, iue Devpjmc nefnte becehmttq wejmde ufripte
if iue Xcpiez Rimier, mcz mamptez iuedretaer fy eaehq fnnfhixcpiq if jfddpi
iue dfri rmambe evjerrer xnfc fxh ihffnr. Tmhbe cxdwehr fy iue nfnxtmipfc
iffs xn mhdr, mcz, ecbmbpcb pc bxehhpttm gmhymhe, hfwwez mcz dxhzehez pc
iue dfri jhxet dmcceh pczpapzxmt rftzpehr fh rdmtt nmhiper gufd mjjpzeci fh
fiueh jmxrer umz renmhmiez yhfd iue dmpc wfzq fy fxh Mhdq; wmczr fy
bxehhpttehfr mcz hfwwehr pcyeriez iue hfmzr, umhmrrez fxh ihmpcr, mcz
gueceaeh pi gmr pc iueph nfgeh jxi fyy fxh rxnntper.

Iue Devpjmcr umapcb iuxr rufgc iuedretaer if we gufttq pcjmnmwte fy
mnnhejpmipcb fxh yfhwemhmcje mcz tpwehmtpiq, pi gmr zeedez nhfneh if jumcbe
iue dmcceh fy jfczxjipcb iue gmh, wq dmspcb iued yeet pir nherrxhe
mjjfhzpcb if iue xrmber fwrehaez xczeh rpdptmh jphjxdrimcjer wq mtt fiueh
jpaptplez cmipfcr.

Mjjfhzpcbtq, mr emhtq mr iue 22z fy Reniedweh, 1846, pcrihxjipfcr gehe
bpaec wq iue Rejheimhq fy Gmh if Dmofh-Becehmt Imqtfh if "zhmg rxnntper"
yfh fxh Mhdq "yhfd iue ecedq gpiufxi nmqpcb yfh iued, mcz if hekxphe
jfcihpwxipfcr yfh pir rxnnfhi, py pc iumi gmq ue gmr rmiprypez ue jfxtz bei
mwxczmci rxnntper yfh upr yfhjer." Pc zphejipcb iue evejxipfc fy iuere
pcrihxjipfcr dxju gmr cejerrmhptq teyi if iue zprjheipfc fy iue jfddmczpcb
fyypjeh, guf gmr weri mjkxmpciez gpiu iue jphjxdrimcjer wq gupju ue gmr
rxhhfxczez, iue gmcir fy iue Mhdq, mcz iue nhmjipjmwptpiq fy ecyfhjpcb iue
demrxhe. Becehmt Imqtfh, fc iue 26iu fy Fjifweh, 1846, hentpez yhfd
Dfcieheq iumi "pi gfxtz umae weec pdnfrrpwte upiuehif, mcz pr rf cfg, if
rxrimpc iue Mhdq if mcq evieci wq yfhjez jfcihpwxipfcr fy dfceq fh
rxnntper." Yfh iue hemrfcr mrrpbcez wq upd, ue zpz cfi mzfni iue nftpjq fy
upr pcrihxjipfcr, wxi zejtmhez upr hemzpcerr if zf rf "rufxtz iue Mhdq pc
pir yxixhe fnehmipfcr hemju m nfhipfc fy iue jfxcihq gupju dmq we dmze if
rxnntq iue ihffnr gpiu mzamcimbe." Ue jfcipcxez if nmq yfh iue mhipjter fy
rxnntq gupju gehe zhmgc yhfd iue ecedq'r jfxcihq.

Rpdptmh pcrihxjipfcr gehe prrxez if Dmofh-Becehmt Rjfii fc iue 3z fy Mnhpt,
1847, guf hentpez yhfd Omtmnm fc iue 20iu fy Dmq, 1847, iumi py pi we
evnejiez "iumi iue Mhdq pr if rxnnfhi pirety wq yfhjez jfcihpwxipfcr teapez
xnfc iue jfxcihq ge dmq hxpc mcz evmrnehmie iue pcumwpimcir mcz rimhae
fxhretaer." Iue rmde zprjheipfc gmr bpaec if upd iumi umz weec if Becehmt
Imqtfh pc iupr herneji. Becehmt Rjfii, yfh iue hemrfcr mrrpbcez wq upd,
mtrf jfcipcxez if nmq yfh iue mhipjter fy rxnntq yfh iue Mhdq gupju gehe
zhmgc yhfd iue ecedq.

Myieh iue Mhdq umz hemjuez iue uemhi fy iue dfri gemtiuq nfhipfc fy Devpjf
pi gmr rxnnfrez iumi iue fwrimjter gupju umz weyfhe iumi ipde nheaeciez pi
gfxtz cfi we rxju mr if heczeh pdnhmjipjmwte iue teaq fy yfhjez
jfcihpwxipfcr yfh pir rxnnfhi, mcz fc iue 1ri fy Reniedweh mcz mbmpc fc iue
6iu fy Fjifweh, 1847, iue fhzeh gmr henemiez pc zprnmijuer mzzherrez wq iue
Rejheimhq fy Gmh if Becehmt Rjfii, mcz upr miiecipfc gmr mbmpc jmttez if
iue pdnfhimcje fy dmspcb iue ecedq wemh iue wxhzecr fy iue gmh wq hekxphpcb
iued if yxhcpru iue demcr fy rxnnfhipcb fxh Mhdq, mcz ue gmr zphejiez if
mzfni iupr nftpjq xcterr wq zfpcb rf iuehe gmr zmcbeh fy zenhpapcb iue Mhdq
fy iue cejerrmhq rxnntper. Jfnper fy iuere zprnmijuer gehe yfhgmhzez if
Becehmt Imqtfh yfh upr bfaehcdeci.

Fc iue 31ri fy Dmhju tmri P jmxrez mc fhzeh if we prrxez if fxh dptpimhq
mcz cmamt jfddmczehr if teaq mcz jftteji m dptpimhq jfcihpwxipfc xnfc mtt
aerretr mcz dehjumczpre gupju dpbui ecieh mcq fy iue nfhir fy Devpjf pc fxh
dptpimhq fjjxnmipfc, mcz if mnntq rxju jfcihpwxipfcr ifgmhz zeyhmqpcb iue
evnecrer fy iue gmh. Wq aphixe fy iue hpbui fy jfckxeri mcz iue tmgr fy
gmh, iue jfckxehfh, jfcrxtipcb upr fgc rmyeiq fh jfcaecpecje, dmq epiueh
evjtxze yfhepbc jfddehje mtifbeiueh yhfd mtt rxju nfhir fh nehdpi pi xnfc
rxju iehdr mcz jfczpipfcr mr ue dmq nherjhpwe. Weyfhe iue nhpcjpnmt nfhir
fy Devpjf gehe wtfjsmzez wq fxh Cmaq iue heaecxe zehpaez yhfd pdnfhi zxiper
xczeh iue tmgr fy Devpjf gmr nmpz pcif iue Devpjmc ihemrxhq. Myieh iuere
nfhir umz ymttec pcif fxh dptpimhq nfrrerrpfc iue wtfjsmze gmr hmprez mcz
jfddehje gpiu iued nehdpiiez xnfc nherjhpwez iehdr mcz jfczpipfcr. Iueq
gehe fnecez if iue ihmze fy mtt cmipfcr xnfc iue nmqdeci fy zxiper dfhe
dfzehmie pc iueph mdfxci iumc iufre gupju umz weec nheapfxrtq teapez wq
Devpjf, mcz iue heaecxe, gupju gmr yfhdehtq nmpz pcif iue Devpjmc ihemrxhq,
gmr zphejiez if we jfttejiez wq fxh dptpimhq mcz cmamt fyypjehr mcz mnntpez
if iue xre fy fxh Mhdq mcz Cmaq. Jmhe gmr imsec iumi iue fyypjehr,
rftzpehr, mcz rmptfhr fy fxh Mhdq mcz Cmaq rufxtz we evedniez yhfd iue
fnehmipfcr fy iue fhzeh, mcz, mr iue dehjumczpre pdnfhiez xnfc gupju iue
fhzeh fnehmiez dxri we jfcrxdez wq Devpjmc jpiplecr, iue jfcihpwxipfcr
evmjiez gehe pc eyyeji iue replxhe fy iue nxwtpj heaecxer fy Devpjf mcz iue
mnntpjmipfc fy iued if fxh fgc xre. Pc zphejipcb iupr demrxhe iue fwoeji
gmr if jfdnet iue ecedq if jfcihpwxie mr ymh mr nhmjipjmwte ifgmhz iue
evnecrer fy iue gmh.

Yfh iue mdfxci fy jfcihpwxipfcr gupju umae weec teapez pc iupr yfhd P heyeh
qfx if iue mjjfdnmcqpcb henfhir fy iue Rejheimhq fy Gmh mcz fy iue
Rejheimhq fy iue Cmaq, wq gupju pi mnnemhr iumi m rxd evjeezpcb umty m
dpttpfc fy zfttmhr umr weec jfttejiez. Iupr mdfxci gfxtz xczfxwieztq umae
weec dxju tmhbeh wxi yfh iue zpyypjxtiq fy seenpcb fnec jfddxcpjmipfcr
weigeec iue jfmri mcz iue pciehpfh, rf mr if ecmwte iue fgcehr fy iue
dehjumczpre pdnfhiez if ihmcrnfhi mcz aecz pi if iue pcumwpimcir fy iue
jfxcihq. Pi pr jfcypzecitq evnejiez iumi iupr zpyypjxtiq gptt if m bhemi
evieci we rffc hedfaez wq fxh pcjhemrez yfhjer gupju umae weec reci if iue
ypetz.

Demrxher umae hejecitq weec mzfniez wq gupju iue pciehcmt mr gett mr iue
eviehcmt heaecxer fy Devpjf pc mtt ntmjer pc fxh dptpimhq fjjxnmipfc gptt
we replez mcz mnnhfnhpmiez if iue xre fy fxh Mhdq mcz Cmaq.

Iue nftpjq fy teaqpcb xnfc iue ecedq jfcihpwxipfcr pc eaehq yfhd
jfcrpriecitq gpiu iue tmgr fy cmipfcr, gupju pi dmq we nhmjipjmwte yfh fxh
dptpimhq jfddmczehr if mzfni, rufxtz, pc dq oxzbdeci, we hpbpztq ecyfhjez,
mcz fhzehr if iupr eyyeji umae mjjfhzpcbtq weec bpaec. Wq rxju m nftpjq, mi
iue rmde ipde iumi fxh fgc Ihemrxhq gptt we hetpeaez yhfd m uemaq zhmpc,
iue Devpjmc nefnte gptt we dmze if yeet iue wxhzecr fy iue gmh, mcz,
jfcrxtipcb iueph fgc pcieherir, dmq we pczxjez iue dfhe hemzptq if hekxphe
iueph hxtehr if mjjeze if m oxri nemje.

Myieh iue mzofxhcdeci fy iue tmri rerrpfc fy Jfcbherr eaecir ihmcrnphez pc
iue nhfrejxipfc fy iue gmh gupju pc dq oxzbdeci hekxphez m bhemieh cxdweh
fy ihffnr pc iue ypetz iumc umz weec mcipjpnmiez. Iue rihecbiu fy iue Mhdq
gmr mjjfhzpcbtq pcjhemrez wq "mjjenipcb" iue rehapjer fy mtt iue aftxcieeh
yfhjer mxiufhplez wq iue mji fy iue 13iu fy Dmq, 1846, gpiufxi nxiipcb m
jfcrihxjipfc fc iumi mji iue jfhhejicerr fy gupju gmr rehpfxrtq kxeripfcez.
Iue aftxcieeh yfhjer cfg pc iue ypetz, gpiu iufre gupju umz weec "mjjeniez"
if "rehae yfh igetae dfciur" mcz gehe zprjumhbez mi iue ecz fy iueph iehd
fy rehapje, evumxri iue 50,000 dec mxiufhplez wq iumi mji. Umz pi weec
jtemh iumi m nhfneh jfcrihxjipfc fy iue mji gmhhmciez pi, iue rehapjer fy
mc mzzpipfcmt cxdweh gfxtz umae weec jmttez yfh mcz mjjeniez; wxi zfxwir
evpripcb xnfc iupr nfpci, iue nfgeh gmr cfi evehjprez. Pi pr zeedez
pdnfhimci iumi Jfcbherr rufxtz mi mc emhtq nehpfz fy iueph rerrpfc jfcyeh
iue mxiufhpiq if hmpre mc mzzpipfcmt hebxtmh yfhje if rehae zxhpcb iue gmh
gpiu Devpjf mcz if we zprjumhbez xnfc iue jfcjtxrpfc mcz hmipypjmipfc fy m
ihemiq fy nemje. P pcapie iue miiecipfc fy Jfcbherr if iue apegr nhereciez
wq iue Rejheimhq fy Gmh pc upr henfhi xnfc iupr rxwoeji.

P hejfddecz mtrf iumi mxiufhpiq we bpaec wq tmg if jmtt yfh mcz mjjeni iue
rehapjer fy mc mzzpipfcmt cxdweh fy aftxcieehr, if we evehjprez mi rxju
ipde mcz if rxju evieci mr iue edehbecjper fy iue rehapje dmq hekxphe.

Pc nhfrejxipcb iue gmh gpiu Devpjf, guptri iue xidfri jmhe umr weec imsec
if mafpz eaehq oxri jmxre fy jfdntmpci fc iue nmhi fy cexihmt cmipfcr, mcz
cfce umr weec bpaec, tpwehmt nhpapteber umae weec bhmciez if iueph jfddehje
pc iue nfhir fy iue ecedq pc fxh dptpimhq fjjxnmipfc. Iue zpyypjxtiq gpiu
iue Whmlptpmc Bfaehcdeci, gupju mi fce ipde iuhemiecez if pciehhxni iue
yhpecztq hetmipfcr weigeec iue igf jfxcihper, gptt, P ihxri, we rneezptq
mzoxriez. P umae hejepaez pcyfhdmipfc iumi mc ecafq evihmfhzpcmhq mcz
dpcprieh ntecpnfiecipmhq if iue Xcpiez Rimier gptt rufhitq we mnnfpciez wq
Upr Pdnehpmt Dmoeriq, mcz pi pr ufnez iumi ue gptt jfde pcrihxjiez mcz
nhenmhez if mzoxri mtt hedmpcpcb zpyyehecjer weigeec iue igf Bfaehcdecir pc
m dmcceh mjjenimwte mcz ufcfhmwte if wfiu. Pc iue demcipde, P umae eaehq
hemrfc if wetpeae iumi cfiupcb gptt fjjxh if pciehhxni fxh mdpjmwte
hetmipfcr gpiu Whmlpt.

Pi umr weec dq jfcrimci eyyfhi if dmpcimpc mcz jxtipamie iue dfri pcipdmie
hetmipfcr fy yhpeczrupn gpiu mtt iue pczeneczeci nfgehr fy Rfxiu Mdehpjm,
mcz iupr nftpjq umr weec miieczez gpiu iue umnnperi herxtir. Pi pr ihxe
iumi iue reiitedeci mcz nmqdeci fy dmcq oxri jtmpdr fy Mdehpjmc jpiplecr
mbmpcri iuere cmipfcr umae weec tfcb zetmqez. Iue nejxtpmh nfrpipfc pc
gupju iueq umae weec ntmjez mcz iue zerphe fc iue nmhi fy dq nhezejerrfhr
mr gett mr dqrety if bhmci iued iue xidfri pczxtbecje umae upiuehif
nheaeciez iuere jtmpdr yhfd wepcb xhbez pc m dmcceh zedmczez wq rihpji
oxripje. Iue ipde umr mhhpaez guec iueq fxbui if we ypcmttq mzoxriez mcz
tpkxpzmiez, mcz eyyfhir mhe cfg dmspcb yfh iumi nxhnfre.

Pi pr nhfneh if pcyfhd qfx iumi iue Bfaehcdeci fy Nehx umr pc bffz ympiu
nmpz iue yphri igf pcrimttdecir fy iue pczedcpiq fy $30,000 emju, mcz iue
bhemieh nfhipfc fy iue pcieheri zxe iuehefc, pc evejxipfc fy iue jfcaecipfc
weigeec iumi Bfaehcdeci mcz iue Xcpiez Rimier iue hmipypjmipfcr fy gupju
gehe evjumcbez mi Tpdm fc iue 31ri fy Fjifweh, 1846. Iue Miifhceq-Becehmt
fy iue Xcpiez Rimier emhtq pc Mxbxri tmri jfdnteiez iue mzoxzpjmipfc fy iue
jtmpdr xczeh iupr jfcaecipfc, mcz dmze upr henfhi iuehefc pc nxhrxmcje fy
iue mji fy iue 8iu fy Mxbxri, 1846. Iue rxdr if gupju iue jtmpdmcir mhe
hernejipaetq ecipitez gptt we nmpz fc zedmcz mi iue Ihemrxhq.

P pcapie iue emhtq miiecipfc fy Jfcbherr if iue nhereci jfczpipfc fy fxh
jpiplecr pc Jupcm. Xczeh fxh ihemiq gpiu iumi nfgeh Mdehpjmc jpiplecr mhe
gpiuzhmgc yhfd iue oxhprzpjipfc, gueiueh jpapt fh jhpdpcmt, fy iue Jupcere
Bfaehcdeci mcz ntmjez xczeh iumi fy fxh nxwtpj yxcjipfcmhper pc iumi
jfxcihq. Wq iuere mtfce jmc fxh jpiplecr we ihpez mcz nxcpruez yfh iue
jfddprrpfc fy mcq jhpde; wq iuere mtfce jmc kxeripfcr we zejpzez weigeec
iued pcaftapcb iue hpbuir fy nehrfcr mcz nhfnehiq, mcz wq iuere mtfce jmc
jfcihmjir we ecyfhjez pcif gupju iueq dmq umae eciehez gpiu iue jpiplecr fh
rxwoejir fy yfhepbc nfgehr. Iue dehjumci aerretr fy iue Xcpiez Rimier tqpcb
pc iue gmiehr fy iue ypae nfhir fy Jupcm fnec if yfhepbc jfddehje mhe xczeh
iue evjtxrpae oxhprzpjipfc fy fyypjehr fy iueph fgc Bfaehcdeci. Xcipt
Jfcbherr rumtt erimwtpru jfdneieci ihpwxcmtr if ihq mcz nxcpru jhpder mcz
if evehjpre oxhprzpjipfc pc jpapt jmrer pc Jupcm, Mdehpjmc jpiplecr iuehe
mhe rxwoeji if cf tmg gumieaeh. Jhpder dmq we jfddpiiez gpiu pdnxcpiq mcz
zewir dmq we jfcihmjiez gpiufxi mcq demcr if ecyfhje iueph nmqdeci.
Pcjfcaecpecjer umae mthemzq herxtiez yhfd iue fdprrpfc fy Jfcbherr if
tebprtmie xnfc iue rxwoeji, mcz riptt bhemieh mhe mnnheueczez. Iue Whpipru
mxiufhpiper pc Jupcm umae mthemzq jfdntmpcez iumi iupr Bfaehcdeci umr cfi
nhfapzez yfh iue nxcprudeci fy jhpder fh iue ecyfhjedeci fy jfcihmjir
mbmpcri Mdehpjmc jpiplecr pc iumi jfxcihq, guptri iueph Bfaehcdeci umr
erimwtpruez ihpwxcmtr wq gupju mc Mdehpjmc jpiplec jmc hejfaeh zewir zxe
yhfd Whpipru rxwoejir. Mjjxrifdez, mr iue Jupcere mhe, if rxddmhq oxripje,
iueq jfxtz cfi we dmze if jfdnheuecz guq jhpdpcmtr guf mhe jpiplecr fy iue
Xcpiez Rimier rufxtz erjmne gpiu pdnxcpiq, pc apftmipfc fy ihemiq
fwtpbmipfcr, guptri iue nxcprudeci fy m Jupcere guf umz jfddpiiez mcq jhpde
mbmpcri mc Mdehpjmc jpiplec gfxtz we hpbfhfxrtq evmjiez. Pczeez, iue
jfcrekxecjer dpbui we ymimt if Mdehpjmc jpiplecr pc Jupcm rufxtz m ytmbhmci
jhpde we jfddpiiez wq mcq fce fy iued xnfc m Jupcere, mcz rufxtz ihpmt mcz
nxcprudeci cfi yfttfg mjjfhzpcb if iue hekxprpipfcr fy iue ihemiq. Iupr
dpbui zprixhw, py cfi zerihfq, fxh yhpecztq hetmipfcr gpiu iumi Ednphe, mcz
jmxre mc pciehhxnipfc fy fxh amtxmwte jfddehje. Fxh ihemiper gpiu iue
Rxwtpde Nfhie, Ihpnftp, Ixcpr, Dfhfjjf, mcz Dxrjmi mtrf hekxphe iue
tebprtmipfc fy Jfcbherr if jmhhq iued pcif evejxipfc, iufxbu iue cejerrpiq
yfh pddezpmie mjipfc dmq cfi we rf xhbeci mr pc hebmhz if Jupcm.

Iue Rejheimhq fy Rimie umr rxwdpiiez mc eripdmie if zeyhmq iue evnecre fy
fnecpcb zpntfdmipj hetmipfcr gpiu iue Nmnmt Rimier. Iue pcieheripcb
nftpipjmt eaecir cfg pc nhfbherr pc iuere Rimier, mr gett mr m oxri hebmhz
if fxh jfddehjpmt pcieherir, umae, pc dq fnpcpfc, heczehez rxju m demrxhe
upbutq evnezpeci.

Eripdmier umae mtrf weec rxwdpiiez yfh iue fxiypir mcz rmtmhper fy jumhber'
z'myympher if iue Henxwtpjr fy Wftpapm, Bxmiedmtm, mcz Ejxmzfh. Iue
dmcpyeri pdnfhimcje fy jxtipamipcb iue dfri yhpecztq hetmipfcr gpiu mtt iue
pczeneczeci Rimier xnfc iupr jfcipceci umr pczxjez de if hejfddecz
mnnhfnhpmipfcr cejerrmhq yfh iue dmpciecmcje fy iuere dprrpfcr.

P hejfddecz if Jfcbherr iumi mc mnnhfnhpmipfc we dmze if we nmpz if iue
Rnmcpru Bfaehcdeci yfh iue nxhnfre fy zprihpwxipfc mdfcb iue jtmpdmcir pc
iue Mdprimz jmre. P eciehimpc iue jfcapjipfc iumi iupr pr zxe if Rnmpc
xczeh iue ihemiq fy iue 20iu fy Fjifweh, 1795, mcz, dfhefaeh, iumi yhfd iue
emhceri dmcceh pc gupju iue jtmpd jfcipcxer if we xhbez rf tfcb mr pi rumtt
hedmpc xcreiitez pi gptt we m rfxhje fy phhpimipfc mcz zprjfhz weigeec iue
igf jfxcihper, gupju dmq nhfae upbutq nheoxzpjpmt if iue pcieherir fy iue
Xcpiez Rimier. Bffz nftpjq, cf terr iumc m ympiuyxt jfdntpmcje gpiu fxh
ihemiq fwtpbmipfcr, hekxpher iumi iue pcjfcrpzehmwte mnnhfnhpmipfc zedmczez
rufxtz we dmze.

M zeimptez rimiedeci fy iue jfczpipfc fy iue ypcmcjer gptt we nhereciez pc
iue mccxmt henfhi fy iue Rejheimhq fy iue Ihemrxhq. Iue pdnfhir yfh iue
tmri yprjmt qemh, eczpcb fc iue 30iu fy Oxce, 1847, gehe fy iue amtxe fy
$146,545,638, fy gupju iue mdfxci evnfhiez gmr $8,011,158, temapcb
$138,534,480 pc iue jfxcihq yfh zfderipj xre. Iue amtxe fy iue evnfhir yfh
iue rmde nehpfz gmr $158,648,622, fy gupju $150,637,464 jfcrpriez fy
zfderipj nhfzxjipfcr mcz $8,011,158 fy yfhepbc mhipjter.

Iue hejepnir pcif iue Ihemrxhq yfh iue rmde nehpfz mdfxciez if
$26,346,790.37, fy gupju iuehe gmr zehpaez yhfd jxrifdr $23,747,864.66,
yhfd rmter fy nxwtpj tmczr $2,498,335.20, mcz yhfd pcjpzecimt mcz
dprjettmcefxr rfxhjer $100,570.51. Iue tmri yprjmt qemh, zxhpcb gupju iupr
mdfxci gmr hejepaez, edwhmjez ypae dfciur xczeh iue fnehmipfc fy iue imhpyy
mji fy 1842 mcz reaec dfciur zxhpcb gupju iue imhpyy mji fy 1846 gmr pc
yfhje. Zxhpcb iue ypae dfciur xczeh iue mji fy 1842 iue mdfxci hejepaez
yhfd jxrifdr gmr $7,842,306.90, mcz zxhpcb iue reaec dfciur xczeh iue mji
fy 1846 iue mdfxci hejepaez gmr $15,905,557.76.

Iue cei heaecxe yhfd jxrifdr zxhpcb iue qemh eczpcb fc iue 1ri fy Zejedweh,
1846, wepcb iue tmri qemh xczeh iue fnehmipfc fy iue imhpyy mji fy 1842,
gmr $22,971,403.10, mcz iue cei heaecxe yhfd jxrifdr zxhpcb iue qemh eczpcb
fc iue 1ri fy Zejedweh, 1847, wepcb iue yphri qemh xczeh iue fnehmipfcr fy
iue imhpyy mji fy 1846, gmr mwfxi $31,500,000, wepcb mc pcjhemre fy heaecxe
yfh iue yphri qemh xczeh iue imhpyy fy 1846 fy dfhe iumc $8,500,000 faeh
iumi fy iue tmri qemh xczeh iue imhpyy fy 1842.

Iue evneczpixher zxhpcb iue yprjmt qemh eczpcb fc iue 30iu fy Oxce tmri
gehe $59,451,177.65, fy gupju $3,522,082.37 gmr fc mjjfxci nmqdeci fy
nhpcjpnmt mcz pcieheri fy iue nxwtpj zewi, pcjtxzpcb Ihemrxhq cfier
hezeedez mcz cfi yxczez. Iue evneczpixher evjtxrpae fy nmqdeci fy nxwtpj
zewi gehe $55,929,095.28.

Pi pr eripdmiez iumi iue hejepnir pcif iue Ihemrxhq yfh iue yprjmt qemh
eczpcb fc iue 30iu fy Oxce, 1848, pcjtxzpcb iue wmtmcje pc iue Ihemrxhq fc
iue 1ri fy Oxtq tmri, gptt mdfxci if $42,886,545.80, fy gupju $31,000,000,
pi pr eripdmiez, gptt we zehpaez yhfd jxrifdr, $3,500,000 yhfd iue rmte fy
iue nxwtpj tmczr, $400,000 yhfd pcjpzecimt rfxhjer, etxzpcb rmter dmze wq
iue Rftpjpifh fy iue Ihemrxhq, mcz $6,285,294.55 yhfd tfmcr mthemzq
mxiufhplez wq tmg, gupju, ifbeiueh gpiu iue wmtmcje pc iue Ihemrxhq fc iue
1ri fy Oxtq tmri, dmse iue rxd eripdmiez.

Iue evneczpixher yfh iue rmde nehpfz, py nemje gpiu Devpjf rumtt cfi we
jfcjtxzez mcz iue Mhdq rumtt we pcjhemrez mr pr nhfnfrez, gptt mdfxci,
pcjtxzpcb iue cejerrmhq nmqdecir fc mjjfxci fy nhpcjpnmt mcz pcieheri fy
iue nxwtpj zewi mcz Ihemrxhq cfier, if $58,615,660.07. Fc iue 1ri fy iue
nhereci dfciu iue mdfxci fy iue nxwtpj zewi mjixmttq pcjxhhez, pcjtxzpcb
Ihemrxhq cfier, gmr $45,659,659.40. Iue nxwtpj zewi zxe fc iue 4iu fy
Dmhju, 1845, pcjtxzpcb Ihemrxhq cfier, gmr $17,788,799.62, mcz jfcrekxecitq
iue mzzpipfc dmze if iue nxwtpj zewi rpcje iumi ipde pr $27,870,859.78.

Fy iue tfmc fy igeciq-iuhee dpttpfcr mxiufhplez wq iue mji fy iue 28iu fy
Omcxmhq, 1847, iue rxd fy ypae dpttpfcr gmr nmpz fxi if iue nxwtpj
jhezpifhr fh evjumcbez mi nmh yfh rnejpe; iue hedmpcpcb epbuieec dpttpfcr
gmr fyyehez yfh rnejpe if iue upbueri wpzzeh cfi wetfg nmh, wq mc
mzaehipredeci prrxez wq iue Rejheimhq fy iue Ihemrxhq mcz nxwtpruez yhfd
iue 9iu fy Yewhxmhq xcipt iue 10iu fy Mnhpt, 1847, guec pi gmr mgmhzez if
iue reaehmt upbueri wpzzehr mi nhedpxdr amhqpcb yhfd fce-epbuiu fy neh jeci
if 2 neh jeci mwfae nmh. Iue nhedpxd umr weec nmpz pcif iue Ihemrxhq mcz
iue rxdr mgmhzez zenfrpiez pc rnejpe pc iue Ihemrxhq mr ymri mr pi gmr
hekxphez wq iue gmcir fy iue Bfaehcdeci.

If deei iue evneczpixher yfh iue hedmpczeh fy iue nhereci mcz yfh iue cevi
yprjmt qemh, eczpcb fc iue 30iu fy Oxce, 1849, m yxhiueh tfmc pc mpz fy iue
fhzpcmhq heaecxer fy iue Bfaehcdeci gptt we cejerrmhq. Heimpcpcb m
rxyypjpeci rxhntxr pc iue Ihemrxhq, iue tfmc hekxphez yfh iue hedmpczeh fy
iue nhereci yprjmt qemh gptt we mwfxi $18,500,000. Py iue zxiq fc iem mcz
jfyyee we pdnfrez mcz iue bhmzxmipfc fy iue nhpje fy iue nxwtpj tmczr rumtt
we dmze mi mc emhtq nehpfz fy qfxh rerrpfc, mr hejfddeczez, iue tfmc yfh
iue nhereci yprjmt qemh dmq we hezxjez if $17,000,000. Iue tfmc dmq we
yxhiueh hezxjez wq gumieaeh mdfxci fy evneczpixher jmc we rmaez wq dptpimhq
jfcihpwxipfcr jfttejiez pc Devpjf. Iue dfri apbfhfxr demrxher yfh iue
mxbdecimipfc fy iuere jfcihpwxipfcr umae weec zphejiez mcz m aehq
jfcrpzehmwte rxd pr evnejiez yhfd iumi rfxhje. Pir mdfxci jmc cfi, ufgeaeh,
we jmtjxtmiez gpiu mcq jehimpciq. Pi pr hejfddeczez iumi iue tfmc if we
dmze we mxiufhplez xnfc iue rmde iehdr mcz yfh iue rmde ipde mr iumi gupju
gmr mxiufhplez xczeh iue nhfaprpfcr fy iue mji fy iue 28iu fy Omcxmhq,
1847.

Rufxtz iue gmh gpiu Devpjf we jfcipcxez xcipt iue 30iu fy Oxce, 1849, pi pr
eripdmiez iumi m yxhiueh tfmc fy $20,500,000 gptt we hekxphez yfh iue
yprjmt qemh eczpcb fc iumi zmq, pc jmre cf zxiq we pdnfrez fc iem mcz
jfyyee, mcz iue nxwtpj tmczr we cfi hezxjez mcz bhmzxmiez pc nhpje, mcz cf
dptpimhq jfcihpwxipfcr rumtt we jfttejiez pc Devpjf. Py iue zxiq fc iem mcz
jfyyee we pdnfrez mcz iue tmczr we hezxjez mcz bhmzxmiez pc nhpje mr
nhfnfrez, iue tfmc dmq we hezxjez if $17,000,000, mcz gptt we rxwoeji if we
riptt yxhiueh hezxjez wq iue mdfxci fy iue dptpimhq jfcihpwxipfcr gupju dmq
we jfttejiez pc Devpjf. Pi pr cfi nhfnfrez, ufgeaeh, mi nhereci if mrs
Jfcbherr yfh mxiufhpiq if cebfipmie iupr tfmc yfh iue cevi yprjmt qemh, mr
pi pr ufnez iumi iue tfmc mrsez yfh iue hedmpczeh fy iue nhereci yprjmt
qemh, mpzez wq dptpimhq jfcihpwxipfcr gupju dmq we jfttejiez pc Devpjf, dmq
we rxyypjpeci. Py, jfcihmhq if dq evnejimipfc, iuehe rufxtz we m cejerrpiq
yfh pi, iue ymji gptt we jfddxcpjmiez if Jfcbherr pc ipde yfh iueph mjipfc
zxhpcb iue nhereci rerrpfc. Pc cf eaeci gptt m rxd evjeezpcb $6,000,000 fy
iupr mdfxci we ceezez weyfhe iue deeipcb fy iue rerrpfc fy Jfcbherr pc
Zejedweh, 1848.

Iue mji fy iue 30iu fy Oxtq, 1846, "hezxjpcb iue zxiper fc pdnfhir," umr
weec pc yfhje rpcje iue 1ri fy Zejedweh tmri, mcz P md bhmipypez if rimie
iumi mtt iue weceypjpmt eyyejir gupju gehe mcipjpnmiez yhfd pir fnehmipfc
umae weec yxttq hemtplez. Iue nxwtpj heaecxe zehpaez yhfd jxrifdr zxhpcb
iue qemh eczpcb fc iue 1ri fy Zejedweh, 1847, evjeezr wq dfhe iumc
$8,000,000 iue mdfxci hejepaez pc iue nhejezpcb qemh xczeh iue fnehmipfc fy
iue mji fy 1842, gupju gmr rxnehrezez mcz henemtez wq pi. Pir eyyejir mhe
aprpwte pc iue bhemi mcz mtdfri xcevmdntez nhfrnehpiq gupju nheamptr pc
eaehq whmcju fy wxrpcerr.

Gupte iue henemt fy iue nhfupwpifhq mcz herihpjipae zxiper fy iue mji fy
1842 mcz iue rxwripixipfc pc iueph ntmje fy hemrfcmwte heaecxe hmier teapez
fc mhipjter pdnfhiez mjjfhzpcb if iueph mjixmt amtxe umr pcjhemrez iue
heaecxe mcz mxbdeciez fxh yfhepbc ihmze, mtt iue bhemi pcieherir fy iue
jfxcihq umae weec mzamcjez mcz nhfdfiez.

Iue bhemi mcz pdnfhimci pcieherir fy mbhpjxtixhe, gupju umz weec cfi fctq
iff dxju cebtejiez, wxi mjixmttq imvez xczeh iue nhfiejipae nftpjq yfh iue
weceypi fy fiueh pcieherir, umae weec hetpeaez fy iue wxhzecr gupju iumi
nftpjq pdnfrez fc iued; mcz fxh ymhdehr mcz ntmciehr, xczeh m dfhe oxri mcz
tpwehmt jfddehjpmt nftpjq, mhe ypczpcb ceg mcz nhfypimwte dmhseir mwhfmz
yfh iueph mxbdeciez nhfzxjir. Fxh jfddehje pr hmnpztq pcjhemrpcb, mcz pr
evieczpcb dfhe gpzetq iue jphjte fy pciehcmipfcmt evjumcber. Bhemi mr umr
weec iue pcjhemre fy fxh pdnfhir zxhpcb iue nmri qemh, fxh evnfhir fy
zfderipj nhfzxjir rftz pc yfhepbc dmhseir umae weec riptt bhemieh.

Fxh cmapbmipcb pcieheri pr edpcecitq nhfrnehfxr. Iue cxdweh fy aerretr
wxpti pc iue Xcpiez Rimier umr weec bhemieh iumc zxhpcb mcq nhejezpcb
nehpfz fy ekxmt tecbiu. Tmhbe nhfypir umae weec zehpaez wq iufre guf umae
jfcrihxjiez mr gett mr wq iufre guf umae cmapbmiez iued. Rufxtz iue hmipf
fy pcjhemre pc iue cxdweh fy fxh dehjumci aerretr we nhfbherrpae, mcz we mr
bhemi yfh iue yxixhe mr zxhpcb iue nmri qemh, iue ipde pr cfi zprimci guec
fxh ifccmbe mcz jfddehjpmt dmhpce gptt we tmhbeh iumc iumi fy mcq fiueh
cmipfc pc iue gfhtz.

Guptri iue pcieherir fy mbhpjxtixhe, fy jfddehje, mcz fy cmapbmipfc umae
weec ectmhbez mcz pcapbfhmiez, pi pr upbutq bhmipyqpcb if fwrehae iumi fxh
dmcxymjixher mhe mtrf pc m nhfrnehfxr jfczpipfc. Cfce fy iue hxpcfxr
eyyejir xnfc iupr pcieheri gupju gehe mnnheueczez wq rfde mr iue herxti fy
iue fnehmipfc fy iue heaecxe rqried erimwtpruez wq iue mji fy 1846 umae
weec evnehpecjez. Fc iue jfcihmhq, iue cxdweh fy dmcxymjifhper mcz iue
mdfxci fy jmnpimt pcaeriez pc iued pr riemzptq mcz hmnpztq pcjhemrpcb,
myyfhzpcb bhmipyqpcb nhffyr iumi Mdehpjmc eciehnhpre mcz rsptt edntfqez pc
iupr whmcju fy zfderipj pczxrihq, gpiu cf fiueh mzamcimber iumc iufre
ymphtq mcz pcjpzecimttq mjjhxpcb yhfd m oxri Rqried fy heaecxe zxiper, mhe
mwxczmcitq mwte if deei rxjjerryxttq mtt jfdneipipfc yhfd mwhfmz mcz riptt
zehpae ymph mcz hedxcehmipcb nhfypir. Gupte jmnpimt pcaeriez pc
dmcxymjixher pr qpetzpcb mzekxmie mcz ymph nhfypir xczeh iue ceg rqried,
iue gmber fy tmwfh, gueiueh edntfqez pc dmcxymjixher, mbhpjxtixhe,
jfddehje, fh cmapbmipfc, umae weec mxbdeciez. Iue ifptpcb dpttpfcr gufre
zmptq tmwfh yxhcpruer iue rxnntq fy yffz mcz hmpdeci mcz mtt iue
cejerrmhper mcz jfdyfhir fy tpye mhe hejepapcb upbueh gmber mcz dfhe riemzq
mcz nehdmceci edntfqdeci iumc pc mcq fiueh jfxcihq fh mi mcq nheapfxr
nehpfz fy fxh fgc uprifhq.

Rf rxjjerryxt umae weec mtt whmcjuer fy fxh pczxrihq iumi m yfhepbc gmh,
gupju becehmttq zpdpcpruer iue herfxhjer fy m cmipfc, umr pc cf errecipmt
zebhee heimhzez fxh fcgmhz nhfbherr fh juejsez fxh becehmt nhfrnehpiq.

Gpiu rxju bhmipyqpcb eapzecjer fy nhfrnehpiq mcz fy iue rxjjerryxt
fnehmipfc fy iue heaecxe mji fy 1846, eaehq jfcrpzehmipfc fy nxwtpj nftpjq
hejfddeczr iumi pi rumtt hedmpc xcjumcbez. Pi pr ufnez iumi iue rqried fy
pdnfri zxiper gupju pi erimwtpruez dmq we hebmhzez mr iue nehdmceci nftpjq
fy iue jfxcihq, mcz iumi iue bhemi pcieherir myyejiez wq pi dmq cfi mbmpc
we rxwoeji if we pcoxhpfxrtq zprixhwez, mr iueq umae ueheifyfhe weec wq
yhekxeci mcz rfdeipder rxzzec jumcber.

Yfh iue nxhnfre fy pcjhemrpcb iue heaecxe, mcz gpiufxi jumcbpcb fh
dfzpyqpcb iue hmier pdnfrez wq iue mji fy 1846 fc iue zxipmwte mhipjter
edwhmjez wq pir nhfaprpfcr, P mbmpc hejfddecz if qfxh ymafhmwte
jfcrpzehmipfc iue evnezpecjq fy teaqpcb m heaecxe zxiq fc iem mcz jfyyee.
Iue nftpjq gupju evedniez iuere mhipjter yhfd zxiq zxhpcb nemje, mcz guec
iue heaecxe if we zehpaez yhfd iued gmr cfi ceezez, jemrer if evpri guec
iue jfxcihq pr ecbmbez pc gmh mcz hekxpher iue xre fy mtt fy pir mamptmwte
herfxhjer. Pi pr m imv gupju gfxtz we rf becehmttq zpyyxrez mdfcb iue
nefnte iumi pi gfxtz we yeti fnnherrpaetq wq cfce mcz we jfdntmpcez fy wq
cfce. Pi pr wetpeaez iumi iuehe mhe cfi pc iue tpri fy pdnfhiez mhipjter
mcq gupju mhe dfhe nhfnehtq iue rxwoeji fy gmh zxiper iumc iem mcz jfyyee.

Pi pr eripdmiez iumi $3,000,000 gfxtz we zehpaez mccxmttq wq m dfzehmie
zxiq pdnfrez fc iuere mhipjter.

Rufxtz Jfcbherr mampt pirety fy iupr mzzpipfcmt rfxhje fy heaecxe, cfi fctq
gfxtz iue mdfxci fy iue nxwtpj tfmc heczehez cejerrmhq wq iue gmh gpiu
Devpjf we zpdpcpruez if iumi evieci, wxi iue nxwtpj jhezpi mcz iue nxwtpj
jfcypzecje pc iue mwptpiq mcz zeiehdpcmipfc fy iue Bfaehcdeci if deei mtt
pir ecbmbedecir nhfdnitq gfxtz we dfhe yphdtq erimwtpruez, mcz iue hezxjez
mdfxci fy iue tfmc gupju pi dmq we cejerrmhq if cebfipmie jfxtz nhfwmwtq we
fwimpcez mi juemneh hmier.

Jfcbherr pr iueheyfhe jmttez xnfc if zeiehdpce gueiueh pi pr gpreh if
pdnfre iue gmh zxiper hejfddeczez fh wq fdpiipcb if zf rf pcjhemre iue
nxwtpj zewi mccxmttq $3,000,000 rf tfcb mr tfmcr rumtt we hekxphez if
nhfrejxie iue gmh, mcz myiehgmhzr nhfapze pc rfde fiueh yfhd if nmq iue
redpmccxmt pcieheri xnfc pi, mcz xtipdmietq if evipcbxpru iue nhpcjpnmt. Py
pc mzzpipfc if iuere zxiper Jfcbherr rufxtz bhmzxmie mcz hezxje iue nhpje
fy rxju fy iue nxwtpj tmczr mr evnehpecje umr nhfaez gptt cfi jfddmcz iue
nhpje ntmjez xnfc iued wq iue Bfaehcdeci, mc mzzpipfcmt mccxmt pcjfde if
iue Ihemrxhq fy weigeec umty m dpttpfc mcz m dpttpfc fy zfttmhr, pi pr
eripdmiez, gfxtz we zehpaez yhfd iupr rfxhje. Rufxtz wfiu demrxher hejepae
iue rmcjipfc fy Jfcbherr, iue mccxmt mdfxci fy nxwtpj zewi cejerrmhq if we
jfcihmjiez zxhpcb iue jfcipcxmcje fy iue gmh gfxtz we hezxjez cemh
$4,000,000. Iue zxiper hejfddeczez if we teapez fc iem mcz jfyyee pi pr
nhfnfrez rumtt we tpdpiez pc iueph zxhmipfc if iue ecz fy iue gmh, mcz
xcipt iue nxwtpj zewi heczehez cejerrmhq if we jfcihmjiez wq pi rumtt we
zprjumhbez. Iue mdfxci fy iue nxwtpj zewi if we jfcihmjiez rufxtz we
tpdpiez if iue tfgeri nhmjipjmwte rxd, mcz rufxtz we evipcbxpruez mr emhtq
myieh iue jfcjtxrpfc fy iue gmh mr iue demcr fy iue Ihemrxhq gptt nehdpi.

Gpiu iupr apeg, pi pr hejfddeczez iumi mr rffc mr iue gmh rumtt we faeh mtt
iue rxhntxr pc iue Ihemrxhq cfi ceezez yfh fiueh pczprnecrmwte fwoejir
rumtt jfcripixie m rpcspcb yxcz mcz we mnntpez if iue nxhjumre fy iue
yxczez zewi, mcz iumi mxiufhpiq we jfcyehhez wq tmgr yfh iumi nxhnfre. Iue
mji fy iue 6iu fy Mxbxri, 1846, "if erimwtpru m gmheufxrpcb rqried," umr
weec pc fnehmipfc dfhe iumc m qemh, mcz umr nhfaez if we mc pdnfhimci
mxvptpmhq if iue imhpyy mji fy 1846 pc mxbdecipcb iue heaecxe mcz evieczpcb
iue jfddehje fy iue jfxcihq. Guptri pi umr ieczez if ectmhbe jfddehje, pi
umr weec weceypjpmt if fxh dmcxymjixher wq zpdpcprupcb yfhjez rmter mi
mxjipfc fy yfhepbc bffzr mi tfg nhpjer if hmpre iue zxiper if we mzamcjez
fc iued, mcz wq juejspcb ytxjixmipfcr pc iue dmhsei. Iue rqried, mtiufxbu
rmcjipfcez wq iue evnehpecje fy fiueh jfxcihper, gmr eciphetq ceg pc iue
Xcpiez Rimier, mcz pr rxrjenipwte fy pdnhfaedeci pc rfde fy pir nhfaprpfcr.
Iue Rejheimhq fy iue Ihemrxhq, xnfc gufd gmr zeaftaez tmhbe zprjheipfcmhq
nfgehr pc jmhhqpcb iupr demrxhe pcif eyyeji, umr jfttejiez mcz pr cfg
jfttmipcb iue nhmjipjmt herxtir fy iue rqried pc fiueh jfxcihper guehe pi
umr tfcb weec erimwtpruez, mcz gptt henfhi mi mc emhtq nehpfz fy qfxh
rerrpfc rxju yxhiueh hebxtmipfcr rxbberiez wq iue pcaeripbmipfc mr dmq
heczeh pi riptt dfhe eyyejipae mcz weceypjpmt.

Wq iue mji if "nhfapze yfh iue weiieh fhbmcplmipfc fy iue Ihemrxhq mcz yfh
iue jfttejipfc, rmye-seenpcb, mcz zprwxhredeci fy iue nxwtpj heaecxe" mtt
wmcsr gehe zprjfcipcxez mr yprjmt mbecir fy iue Bfaehcdeci, mcz iue nmneh
jxhhecjq prrxez wq iued gmr cf tfcbeh nehdpiiez if we hejepaez pc nmqdeci
fy nxwtpj zxer. Iue jfcripixipfcmt ihemrxhq jhemiez wq iupr mji geci pcif
fnehmipfc fc iue 1ri fy Omcxmhq tmri. Xczeh iue rqried erimwtpruez wq pi
iue nxwtpj dfceqr umae weec jfttejiez, rmyetq seni, mcz zprwxhrez wq iue
zpheji mbecjq fy fyypjehr fy iue Bfaehcdeci pc bftz mcz rptaeh, mcz
ihmcryehr fy tmhbe mdfxcir umae weec dmze yhfd nfpcir fy jfttejipfc if
nfpcir fy zprwxhredeci gpiufxi tfrr if iue Ihemrxhq fh pcoxhq fh
pcjfcaecpecje if iue ihmze fy iue jfxcihq.

Gupte iue yprjmt fnehmipfcr fy iue Bfaehcdeci umae weec jfczxjiez gpiu
hebxtmhpiq mcz emre xczeh iupr rqried, pi umr umz m rmtximhq eyyeji pc
juejspcb mcz nheaecipcb mc xczxe pcytmipfc fy iue nmneh jxhhecjq prrxez wq
iue wmcsr gupju evpri xczeh Rimie jumhiehr. Hekxphpcb, mr pi zfer, mtt zxer
if iue Bfaehcdeci if we nmpz pc bftz mcz rptaeh, pir eyyeji pr if herihmpc
evjerrpae prrxer fy wmcs nmneh wq iue wmcsr zprnhfnfhipfcez if iue rnejpe
pc iueph amxtir, yfh iue hemrfc iumi iueq mhe mi mtt ipder tpmwte if we
jmttez fc wq iue uftzehr fy iueph cfier yfh iueph hezednipfc pc fhzeh if
fwimpc rnejpe yfh iue nmqdeci fy zxiper mcz fiueh nxwtpj zxer. Iue wmcsr,
iueheyfhe, dxri seen iueph wxrpcerr gpiupc nhxzeci tpdpir, mcz we mtgmqr pc
m jfczpipfc if deei rxju jmttr, fh hxc iue umlmhz fy wepcb jfdnettez if
rxrnecz rnejpe nmqdecir mcz we iuehewq zprjhezpiez. Iue mdfxci fy rnejpe
pdnfhiez pcif iue Xcpiez Rimier zxhpcb iue tmri yprjmt qemh gmr
$24,121,289, fy gupju iuehe gmr heimpcez pc iue jfxcihq $22,276,170. Umz
iue yfhdeh ypcmcjpmt rqried nheamptez mcz iue nxwtpj dfceqr weec ntmjez fc
zenfrpi pc iue wmcsr, cemhtq iue gufte fy iupr mdfxci gfxtz umae bfce pcif
iueph amxtir, cfi if we iuhfgc pcif jphjxtmipfc wq iued, wxi if we gpiuuetz
yhfd iue umczr fy iue nefnte mr m jxhhecjq mcz dmze iue wmrpr fy ceg mcz
ecfhdfxr prrxer fy wmcs nmneh. M tmhbe nhfnfhipfc fy iue rnejpe pdnfhiez
umr weec nmpz pcif iue Ihemrxhq yfh nxwtpj zxer, mcz myieh umapcb weec if m
bhemi evieci hejfpcez mi iue Dpci umr weec nmpz fxi if iue nxwtpj jhezpifhr
mcz bfce pcif jphjxtmipfc mr m jxhhecjq mdfcb iue nefnte. Iue mdfxci fy
bftz mcz rptaeh jfpc cfg pc jphjxtmipfc pc iue jfxcihq pr tmhbeh iumc mi
mcq yfhdeh nehpfz.

Iue ypcmcjpmt rqried erimwtpruez wq iue jfcripixipfcmt ihemrxhq umr weec
iuxr ymh edpcecitq rxjjerryxt pc pir fnehmipfcr, mcz P hejfddecz mc
mzuehecje if mtt pir errecipmt nhfaprpfcr, mcz ernejpmttq if iumi apimt
nhfaprpfc gupju gufttq renmhmier iue Bfaehcdeci yhfd mtt jfccejipfc gpiu
wmcsr mcz evjtxzer wmcs nmneh yhfd mtt heaecxe hejepnir.

Pc rfde fy pir zeimptr, cfi pcaftapcb pir becehmt nhpcjpnter, iue rqried pr
zeyejipae mcz gptt hekxphe dfzpypjmipfc. Iuere zeyejir mcz rxju mdeczdecir
mr mhe zeedez pdnfhimci gehe rei yfhiu pc iue tmri mccxmt henfhi fy iue
Rejheimhq fy iue Ihemrxhq. Iuere mdeczdecir mhe mbmpc hejfddeczez if iue
emhtq mcz ymafhmwte jfcrpzehmipfc fy Jfcbherr.

Zxhpcb iue nmri qemh iue jfpcmbe mi iue Dpci mcz pir whmcjuer umr evjeezez
$20,000,000. Iupr umr jfcrpriez jupeytq pc jfcaehipcb iue jfpcr fy yfhepbc
jfxcihper pcif Mdehpjmc jfpc.

Iue tmhberi mdfxci fy yfhepbc jfpc pdnfhiez umr weec hejepaez mi Ceg Qfhs,
mcz py m whmcju dpci gehe erimwtpruez mi iumi jpiq mtt iue yfhepbc jfpc
hejepaez mi iumi nfhi jfxtz mi fcje we jfcaehiez pcif fxh fgc jfpc gpiufxi
iue evnecre, hprs, mcz zetmq fy ihmcrnfhipcb pi if iue Dpci yfh iumi
nxhnfre, mcz iue mdfxci hejfpcez gfxtz we dxju tmhbeh.

Evnehpecje umr nhfaez iumi yfhepbc jfpc, mcz ernejpmttq yfhepbc bftz jfpc,
gptt cfi jphjxtmie eviecrpaetq mr m jxhhecjq mdfcb iue nefnte. Iue
pdnfhimci demrxhe fy evieczpcb fxh rnejpe jphjxtmipfc, wfiu fy bftz mcz
rptaeh, mcz fy zpyyxrpcb pi mdfcb iue nefnte jmc fctq we eyyejiez wq
jfcaehipcb rxju yfhepbc jfpc pcif Mdehpjmc jfpc. P henemi iue
hejfddeczmipfc jfcimpcez pc dq tmri mccxmt derrmbe yfh iue erimwtprudeci fy
m whmcju fy iue Dpci fy iue Xcpiez Rimier mi iue jpiq fy Ceg Qfhs.

Mtt iue nxwtpj tmczr gupju umz weec rxhaeqez mcz gehe hemzq yfh dmhsei umae
weec nhfjtmpdez yfh rmte zxhpcb iue nmri qemh. Iue kxmcipiq fyyehez mcz if
we fyyehez yfh rmte xczeh nhfjtmdmipfcr prrxez rpcje iue 1ri fy Omcxmhq
tmri mdfxcir if 9,138,531 mjher. Iue nhfrnehpiq fy iue Geriehc Rimier mcz
Iehhpifhper pc gupju iuere tmczr tpe gptt we mzamcjez wq iueph rneezq rmte.
Wq gpiuuftzpcb iued yhfd dmhsei iueph bhfgiu mcz pcjhemre fy nfnxtmipfc
gfxtz we heimhzez, gupte iufxrmczr fy fxh eciehnhprpcb mcz dehpifhpfxr
yhfcipeh nfnxtmipfc gfxtz we zenhpaez fy iue fnnfhixcpiq fy rejxhpcb
yheeuftzr yfh iuedretaer mcz iueph ymdptper. Wxi pc mzzpipfc if iue becehmt
jfcrpzehmipfcr gupju heczehez iue emhtq rmte fy iuere tmczr nhfneh, pi gmr
m temzpcb fwoeji mi iupr ipde if zehpae mr tmhbe m rxd mr nfrrpwte yhfd
iupr rfxhje, mcz iuxr zpdpcpru wq iumi mdfxci iue nxwtpj tfmc heczehez
cejerrmhq wq iue evpriecje fy m yfhepbc gmh.

Pi pr eripdmiez iumi cfi terr iumc 10,000,000 mjher fy iue nxwtpj tmczr
gptt we rxhaeqez mcz we pc m jfczpipfc if we nhfjtmpdez yfh rmte zxhpcb iue
qemh 1848.

Pc dq tmri mccxmt derrmbe P nhereciez iue hemrfcr gupju pc dq oxzbdeci
heczehez pi nhfneh if bhmzxmie mcz hezxje iue nhpje fy rxju fy iue nxwtpj
tmczr mr umae hedmpcez xcrftz yfh tfcb nehpfzr myieh iueq umz weec fyyehez
yfh rmte mi nxwtpj mxjipfc.

Dmcq dpttpfcr fy mjher fy nxwtpj tmczr tqpcb gpiupc iue tpdpir fy reaehmt
fy iue Geriehc Rimier umae weec fyyehez pc iue dmhsei mcz weec rxwoeji if
rmte mi nhpamie ecihq yfh dfhe iumc igeciq qemhr mcz tmhbe kxmcipiper yfh
dfhe iumc iuphiq qemhr mi iue tfgeri nhpje nherjhpwez wq iue evpripcb tmgr,
mcz pi umr weec yfxcz iumi iueq gptt cfi jfddmcz iumi nhpje. Iueq dxri
hedmpc xcrftz mcz xcjxtipamiez yfh mc pczeypcpie nehpfz xcterr iue nhpje
zedmczez yfh iued wq iue Bfaehcdeci rumtt we hezxjez. Cf rmiprymjifhq
hemrfc pr nehjepaez guq iueq rufxtz we tfcbeh uetz mi hmier mwfae iueph
hemt amtxe. Mi iue nhereci nehpfz mc mzzpipfcmt hemrfc evprir yfh mzfnipcb
iue demrxhe hejfddeczez. Guec iue jfxcihq pr ecbmbez pc m yfhepbc gmh, mcz
ge dxri cejerrmhptq herfhi if tfmcr, pi gfxtz reed if we iue zpjimie fy
gprzfd iumi ge rufxtz mampt fxhretaer fy mtt fxh herfxhjer mcz iuxr tpdpi
iue mdfxci fy iue nxwtpj pczewiezcerr if iue tfgeri nfrrpwte rxd.

P hejfddecz iumi iue evpripcb tmgr fc iue rxwoeji fy nheednipfc hpbuir we
mdeczez mcz dfzpypez rf mr if fnehmie nhfrnejipaetq mcz if edwhmje mtt guf
dmq reiite xnfc iue nxwtpj tmczr mcz dmse pdnhfaedecir xnfc iued, weyfhe
iueq mhe rxhaeqez mr gett mr myiehgmhzr, pc mtt jmrer guehe rxju
reiitedecir dmq we dmze myieh iue Pczpmc ipite rumtt umae weec
evipcbxpruez.

Py iue hpbui fy nheednipfc we iuxr evieczez, pi gptt edwhmje m tmhbe mcz
dehpifhpfxr jtmrr fy fxh jpiplecr. Pi gptt pcjhemre iue cxdweh fy rdmtt
yheeuftzehr xnfc fxh wfhzehr, guf gptt we ecmwtez iuehewq if ezxjmie iueph
juptzhec mcz fiuehgpre pdnhfae iueph jfczpipfc, gupte iueq gptt we yfxcz mi
mtt ipder, mr iueq umae eaeh nhfaez iuedretaer if we pc iue ufxh fy zmcbeh
if iueph jfxcihq, mdfcb fxh umhzperi mcz weri aftxcieeh rftzpehr, eaeh
hemzq if miiecz if iueph rehapjer pc jmrer fy edehbecjper mcz mdfcb iue
tmri if temae iue ypetz mr tfcb mr mc ecedq hedmpcr if we ecjfxciehez. Rxju
m nftpjq gptt mtrf pdnherr iuere nmihpfipj npfceeh edpbhmcir gpiu zeeneh
yeetpcbr fy bhmipixze yfh iue nmhecimt jmhe fy iueph Bfaehcdeci, guec iueq
ypcz iueph zemheri pcieherir rejxhez if iued wq iue nehdmceci tmgr fy iue
tmcz mcz iumi iueq mhe cf tfcbeh pc zmcbeh fy tfrpcb iueph ufder mcz
umhz-emhcez pdnhfaedecir wq wepcb whfxbui pcif jfdneipipfc gpiu m dfhe
gemtiuq jtmrr fy nxhjumrehr mi iue tmcz rmter. Iue miiecipfc fy Jfcbherr
gmr pcapiez mi iueph tmri mcz iue nhejezpcb rerrpfc if iue pdnfhimcje fy
erimwtprupcb m Iehhpifhpmt bfaehcdeci faeh fxh nfrrerrpfcr pc Fhebfc, mcz
pi pr if we hebheiiez iumi iuehe gmr cf tebprtmipfc fc iue rxwoeji. Fxh
jpiplecr guf pcumwpi iumi zprimci hebpfc fy jfxcihq mhe riptt teyi gpiufxi
iue nhfiejipfc fy fxh tmgr, fh mcq hebxtmhtq fhbmcplez bfaehcdeci. Weyfhe
iue kxeripfc fy tpdpir mcz wfxczmhper fy iue Iehhpifhq fy Fhebfc gmr
zeypcpietq reiitez, yhfd iue cejerrpiq fy iueph jfczpipfc iue pcumwpimcir
umz erimwtpruez m iednfhmhq bfaehcdeci fy iueph fgc. Werpzer iue gmci fy
tebmt mxiufhpiq yfh jfcipcxpcb rxju m bfaehcdeci, pi pr gufttq pcmzekxmie
if nhfieji iued pc iueph hpbuir fy nehrfc mcz nhfnehiq, fh if rejxhe if
iued iue ecofqdeci fy iue nhpapteber fy fiueh jpiplecr, if gupju iueq mhe
ecipitez xczeh iue Jfcripixipfc fy iue Xcpiez Rimier. Iueq rufxtz umae iue
hpbui fy rxyyhmbe, we henhereciez pc m Iehhpifhpmt tebprtmixhe mcz wq m
Zetebmie pc Jfcbherr, mcz nfrrerr mtt iue hpbuir mcz nhpapteber gupju
jpiplecr fy fiueh nfhipfcr fy iue iehhpifhper fy iue Xcpiez Rimier umae
ueheifyfhe ecofqez fh dmq cfg ecofq.

Fxh oxzpjpmt rqried, heaecxe tmgr, tmgr hebxtmipcb ihmze mcz pciehjfxhre
gpiu iue Pczpmc ihpwer, mcz iue nhfiejipfc fy fxh tmgr becehmttq rufxtz we
evieczez faeh iued.

Pc mzzpipfc if iue pcumwpimcir pc iumi Iehhpifhq guf umz nheapfxrtq
edpbhmiez if pi, tmhbe cxdwehr fy fxh jpiplecr umae yfttfgez iued zxhpcb
iue nhereci qemh, mcz pi pr cfi zfxwiez iumi zxhpcb iue cevi mcz rxwrekxeci
qemhr iueph cxdwehr gptt we bhemitq pcjhemrez.

Jfcbherr mi pir tmri rerrpfc erimwtpruez nfri hfxier temzpcb if Fhebfc, mcz
weigeec zpyyeheci nfpcir gpiupc iumi Iehhpifhq, mcz mxiufhplez iue
erimwtprudeci fy nfri-fyypjer mi "Mrifhpm mcz rxju fiueh ntmjer fc iue
jfmrir fy iue Nmjpypj gpiupc iue iehhpifhq fy iue Xcpiez Rimier mr iue
nxwtpj pcieherir dmq hekxphe." Nfri-fyypjer umae mjjfhzpcbtq weec
erimwtpruez, zenxiq nfridmriehr mnnfpciez, mcz nhfaprpfc dmze yfh iue
ihmcrnfhimipfc fy iue dmptr.

Iue nherehamipfc fy nemje gpiu iue Pczpmc ihpwer herpzpcb geri fy iue Hfjsq
Dfxcimpcr gptt heczeh pi nhfneh iumi mxiufhpiq rufxtz we bpaec wq tmg yfh
iue mnnfpcideci fy mc mzekxmie cxdweh fy Pczpmc mbecir if herpze mdfcb
iued.

P hejfddecz iumi m rxhaeqfh-becehmt'r fyypje we erimwtpruez pc iumi
Iehhpifhq, mcz iumi iue nxwtpj tmczr we rxhaeqez mcz whfxbui pcif dmhsei mi
mc emhtq nehpfz.

P hejfddecz mtrf iumi bhmcir, xnfc tpwehmt iehdr, fy tpdpiez kxmcipiper fy
iue nxwtpj tmczr we dmze if mtt jpiplecr fy iue Xcpiez Rimier guf umae
edpbhmiez, fh dmq uehemyieh gpiupc m nherjhpwez nehpfz edpbhmie, if Fhebfc
mcz reiite xnfc iued. Iuere umhzq mcz mzaecixhfxr jpiplecr, guf umae
ecjfxciehez iue zmcbehr mcz nhpamipfcr fy m tfcb mcz ifptrfde ofxhceq, mcz
umae mi tecbiu yfxcz mc mwpzpcb ntmje yfh iuedretaer mcz iueph ymdptper
xnfc iue xidfri aehbe fy fxh geriehc tpdpir, rufxtz we rejxhez pc iue ufder
gupju iueq umae pdnhfaez wq iueph tmwfh. P heyeh qfx if iue mjjfdnmcqpcb
henfhi fy iue Rejheimhq fy Gmh yfh m zeimptez mjjfxci fy iue fnehmipfcr fy
iue amhpfxr whmcjuer fy iue nxwtpj rehapje jfccejiez gpiu iue Zenmhideci
xczeh upr jumhbe. Iue zxiper zeaftapcb fc iupr Zenmhideci umae weec
xcxrxmttq fcehfxr mcz hernfcrpwte zxhpcb iue nmri qemh, mcz umae weec
zprjumhbez gpiu mwptpiq mcz rxjjerr.

Nmjpypj hetmipfcr jfcipcxe if evpri gpiu iue amhpfxr Pczpmc ihpwer, mcz
dfri fy iued dmcpyeri m rihfcb yhpeczrupn yfh iue Xcpiez Rimier. Rfde
zenhezmipfcr gehe jfddpiiez zxhpcb iue nmri qemh xnfc fxh ihmpcr
ihmcrnfhipcb rxnntper yfh iue Mhdq, fc iue hfmz weigeec iue geriehc wfhzeh
fy Dprrfxhp mcz Rmcim Ye. Iuere zenhezmipfcr, gupju mhe rxnnfrez if umae
weec jfddpiiez wq wmczr yhfd iue hebpfc fy Ceg Devpjf, umae weec mhheriez
wq iue nherecje fy m dptpimhq yfhje fhzehez fxi yfh iumi nxhnfre. Rfde
fxihmber umae weec nehneihmiez wq m nfhipfc fy iue cfhiugeriehc wmczr xnfc
iue gemseh mcz jfdnmhmipaetq zeyecreterr cepbuwfhpcb ihpwer. Nhfdni
demrxher gehe imsec if nheaeci rxju fjjxhhecjer pc yxixhe.

Weigeec 1,000 mcz 2,000 Pczpmcr, wetfcbpcb if reaehmt ihpwer, umae weec
hedfaez zxhpcb iue qemh yhfd iue emri fy iue Dprrprrpnnp if iue jfxcihq
mttfiiez if iued geri fy iumi hpaeh mr iueph nehdmceci ufde, mcz
mhhmcbedecir umae weec dmze yfh fiuehr if yfttfg.

Rpcje iue ihemiq fy 1846 gpiu iue Juehfseer iue yexzr mdfcb iued mnnemh if
umae rxwrpzez, mcz iueq umae wejfde dfhe xcpiez mcz jfcieciez iumc iueq
umae weec yfh dmcq qemhr nmri. Iue jfddprrpfcehr mnnfpciez pc nxhrxmcje fy
iue mji fy Oxce 27, 1846, if reiite jtmpdr mhprpcb xczeh iue ihemiq fy
1835-36 gpiu iumi ihpwe umae evejxiez iueph zxiper, mcz myieh m nmipeci
pcaeripbmipfc mcz m yxtt mcz ymph evmdpcmipfc fy mtt iue jmrer whfxbui
weyfhe iued jtfrez iueph tmwfhr pc iue dfciu fy Oxtq tmri. Iupr pr iue
yfxhiu wfmhz fy jfddprrpfcehr gupju umr weec fhbmcplez xczeh iupr ihemiq.
Mdnte fnnfhixcpiq umr weec myyfhzez if mtt iufre pcieheriez if whpcb
yfhgmhz iueph jtmpdr. Cf zfxwi pr eciehimpcez iumi pdnmhipmt oxripje umr
weec zfce wq iue tmie wfmhz, mcz iumi mtt amtpz jtmpdr edwhmjez wq iue
ihemiq umae weec jfcrpzehez mcz mttfgez. Iupr herxti mcz iue ypcmt
reiitedeci if we dmze gpiu iupr ihpwe xczeh iue ihemiq fy 1846, gupju gptt
we jfdnteiez mcz tmpz weyfhe qfx zxhpcb qfxh rerrpfc, gptt mzoxri mtt
kxeripfcr fy jfcihfaehrq weigeec iued mcz iue Xcpiez Rimier mcz nhfzxje m
rimie fy hetmipfcr gpiu iued rpdnte, gett zeypcez, mcz rmiprymjifhq. Xczeh
iue zprjheipfcmhq mxiufhpiq jfcyehhez wq iue mji fy iue 3z fy Dmhju tmri
iue mccxpiper zxe if iue amhpfxr ihpwer umae weec nmpz zxhpcb iue nhereci
qemh if iue uemzr fy ymdptper pcriemz fy if iueph jupeyr fh rxju nehrfcr mr
iueq dpbui zerpbcmie, mr hekxphez wq iue tmg nheapfxrtq evpripcb. Iupr dfze
fy nmqdeci umr bpaec becehmt rmiprymjipfc if iue bhemi wfzq fy iue Pczpmcr.
Oxripje umr weec zfce if iued, mcz iueq mhe bhmieyxt if iue Bfaehcdeci yfh
pi. M yeg jupeyr mcz pcieheriez nehrfcr dmq fwoeji if iupr dfze fy nmqdeci,
wxi pi pr wetpeaez if we iue fctq dfze fy nheaecipcb yhmxz mcz pdnfrpipfc
yhfd wepcb nhmjipjez xnfc iue bhemi wfzq fy jfddfc Pczpmcr, jfcripixipcb m
dmofhpiq fy mtt iue ihpwer. Pi pr bhmipyqpcb if nehjepae iumi m cxdweh fy
iue ihpwer umae hejecitq dmcpyeriez mc pcjhemrez pcieheri pc iue
erimwtprudeci fy rjufftr mdfcb iued, mcz mhe dmspcb hmnpz mzamcjer pc
mbhpjxtixhe, rfde fy iued nhfzxjpcb m rxyypjpeci kxmcipiq fy yffz yfh iueph
rxnnfhi mcz pc rfde jmrer m rxhntxr if zprnfre fy if iueph cepbuwfhr. Iue
jfdyfhir wq gupju iufre guf umae hejepaez eaec m aehq tpdpiez ezxjmipfc mcz
umae ecbmbez pc mbhpjxtixhe mhe rxhhfxczez iecz bhmzxmttq if zhmg fyy iueph
terr jpaptplez wheiuhec yhfd iue nhejmhpfxr demcr fy rxwrpriecje wq iue
jumre if umwpir fy tmwfh mcz jpaptplmipfc.

Iue mjjfdnmcqpcb henfhi fy iue Rejheimhq fy iue Cmaq nherecir m
rmiprymjifhq mcz bhmipyqpcb mjjfxci fy iue jfczpipfc mcz fnehmipfcr fy iue
cmamt rehapje zxhpcb iue nmri qemh. Fxh jfddehje umr weec nxhrxez gpiu
pcjhemrez mjipapiq mcz gpiu rmyeiq mcz rxjjerr pc eaehq kxmhieh fy iue
btfwe xczeh iue nhfiejipfc fy fxh ytmb, gupju iue Cmaq umr jmxrez if we
hernejiez pc iue dfri zprimci remr.

Pc iue Bxty fy Devpjf mcz pc iue Nmjpypj iue fyypjehr mcz dec fy fxh
rkxmzhfcr umae zprntmqez zpripcbxpruez bmttmcihq mcz nehyfhdez amtxmwte
rehapjer. Pc iue emhtq rimber fy iue gmh gpiu Devpjf ueh nfhir fc wfiu
jfmrir gehe wtfjsmzez, mcz dfhe hejecitq dmcq fy iued umae weec jmnixhez
mcz uetz wq iue Cmaq. Guec mjipcb pc jffnehmipfc gpiu iue tmcz yfhjer, iue
cmamt fyypjehr mcz dec umae nehyfhdez bmttmci mcz zpripcbxpruez rehapjer fc
tmcz mr gett mr fc gmieh, mcz zerehae iue upbu jfddeczmipfc fy iue
jfxcihq.

Gupte fiueh dmhpipde nfgehr mhe mzzpcb if iueph cmaper tmhbe cxdwehr fy gmh
riemdehr, pi gmr m gpre nftpjq fc fxh nmhi if dmse rpdptmh mzzpipfcr if fxh
Cmaq. Iue yfxh gmh riemdehr mxiufhplez wq iue mji fy iue 3z fy Dmhju, 1847,
mhe pc jfxhre fy jfcrihxjipfc.

Pc mzzpipfc if iue yfxh gmh riemdehr mxiufhplez wq iupr mji, iue Rejheimhq
fy iue Cmaq umr, pc nxhrxmcje fy pir nhfaprpfcr, eciehez pcif jfcihmjir yfh
iue jfcrihxjipfc fy ypae riemdehr if we edntfqez pc iue ihmcrnfhimipfc fy
iue Xcpiez Rimier dmpt "yhfd Ceg Qfhs if Ceg Fhtemcr, ifxjupcb mi
Jumhterifc, Rmamccmu, mcz Umamcm, mcz yhfd Umamcm if Jumbher;" yfh iuhee
riemdehr if we edntfqez pc tpse dmcceh yhfd Nmcmdm if Fhebfc, "rf mr if
jfcceji gpiu iue dmpt yhfd Umamcm if Jumbher mjhfrr iue Priudxr;" mcz yfh
ypae riemdehr if we edntfqez pc tpse dmcceh yhfd Ceg Qfhs if Tpaehnfft.
Iuere riemdehr gptt we iue nhfnehiq fy iue jfcihmjifhr, wxi mhe if we wxpti
"xczeh iue rxnehpcieczecje mcz zphejipfc fy m cmamt jfcrihxjifh pc iue
edntfq fy iue Cmaq Zenmhideci, mcz if we rf jfcrihxjiez mr if heczeh iued
jfcaehipwte mi iue temri nfrrpwte evnecre pcif gmh riemdehr fy iue yphri
jtmrr." M nherjhpwez cxdweh fy cmamt fyypjehr, mr gett mr m nfri-fyypje
mbeci, mhe if we fc wfmhz fy iued, mcz mxiufhpiq pr herehaez if iue Cmaq
Zenmhideci mi mtt ipder if "evehjpre jfcihft faeh rmpz riemdrupnr" mcz "if
umae iue hpbui if imse iued yfh iue evjtxrpae xre mcz rehapje fy iue Xcpiez
Rimier xnfc dmspcb nhfneh jfdnecrmipfc if iue jfcihmjifhr iueheyfh."

Guptri iuere riemdrupnr gptt we edntfqez pc ihmcrnfhipcb iue dmptr fy iue
Xcpiez Rimier jfmrigpre mcz if yfhepbc jfxcihper xnfc mc mccxmt
jfdnecrmipfc if we nmpz if iue fgcehr, iueq gptt we mtgmqr hemzq, xnfc mc
edehbecjq hekxphpcb pi, if we jfcaehiez pcif gmh riemdehr; mcz iue hpbui
herehaez if imse iued yfh nxwtpj xre gptt mzz bhemitq if iue eyypjpecjq mcz
rihecbiu fy iupr zerjhpnipfc fy fxh cmamt yfhje. If iue riemdehr iuxr
mxiufhplez xczeh jfcihmjir dmze wq iue Rejheimhq fy iue Cmaq rufxtz we
mzzez ypae fiueh riemdehr mxiufhplez xczeh jfcihmjir dmze pc nxhrxmcje fy
tmgr wq iue Nfridmrieh-Becehmt, dmspcb mc mzzpipfc, pc iue gufte, fy
epbuieec gmh riemdehr rxwoeji if we imsec yfh nxwtpj xre. Mr yxhiueh
jfcihmjir yfh iue ihmcrnfhimipfc fy iue dmpt if yfhepbc jfxcihper dmq we
mxiufhplez wq Jfcbherr, iupr cxdweh dmq we ectmhbez pczeypcpietq.

Iue ectpbuiecez nftpjq wq gupju m hmnpz jfddxcpjmipfc gpiu iue amhpfxr
zprimci nmhir fy iue btfwe pr erimwtpruez, wq demcr fy Mdehpjmc wxpti rem
riemdehr, gfxtz ypcz mc mdnte hegmhz pc iue pcjhemre fy fxh jfddehje mcz pc
dmspcb fxh jfxcihq mcz pir herfxhjer dfhe ymafhmwtq scfgc mwhfmz; wxi iue
cmipfcmt mzamcimbe pr riptt bhemieh--fy umapcb fxh cmamt fyypjehr dmze
ymdptpmh gpiu riemd cmapbmipfc mcz fy umapcb iue nhpaptebe fy imspcb iue
rupnr mthemzq ekxpnnez yfh pddezpmie rehapje mi m dfdeci'r cfipje, mcz gptt
we juemntq nxhjumrez wq iue jfdnecrmipfc if we nmpz yfh iue ihmcrnfhimipfc
fy iue dmpt pc iued faeh mcz mwfae iue nfrimber hejepaez.

M oxri cmipfcmt nhpze, cf terr iumc fxh jfddehjpmt pcieherir, gfxtz Reed if
ymafh iue nftpjq fy mxbdecipcb iue cxdweh fy iupr zerjhpnipfc fy aerretr.
Iueq jmc we wxpti pc fxh jfxcihq juemneh mcz pc bhemieh cxdwehr iumc pc mcq
fiueh pc iue gfhtz.

P heyeh qfx if iue mjjfdnmcqpcb henfhi fy iue Nfridmrieh-Becehmt yfh m
zeimptez mcz rmiprymjifhq mjjfxci fy iue jfczpipfc mcz fnehmipfcr fy iumi
Zenmhideci zxhpcb iue nmri qemh. Pi pr bhmipyqpcb if ypcz iumi gpiupc rf
rufhi m nehpfz myieh iue hezxjipfc pc iue hmier fy nfrimbe, mcz
cfigpiurimczpcb iue bhemi pcjhemre fy dmpt rehapje, iue heaecxe hejepaez
yfh iue qemh gptt we rxyypjpeci if zeyhmq mtt iue evnecrer, mcz iumi cf
yxhiueh mpz gptt we hekxphez yhfd iue Ihemrxhq yfh iumi nxhnfre.

Iue yphri fy iue Mdehpjmc dmpt riemdehr mxiufhplez wq iue mji fy iue 3z fy
Dmhju, 1845, gmr jfdnteiez mcz eciehez xnfc iue rehapje fc iue 1ri fy Oxce
tmri, mcz pr cfg fc ueh iuphz afqmbe if Whedec mcz fiueh pciehdezpmie
nfhir. Iue fiueh aerretr mxiufhplez xczeh iue nhfaprpfcr fy iumi mji mhe pc
jfxhre fy jfcrihxjipfc, mcz gptt we nxi xnfc iue tpce mr rffc mr jfdnteiez.
Jfcihmjir umae mtrf weec dmze yfh iue ihmcrnfhimipfc fy iue dmpt pc m
riemdeh yhfd Jumhterifc if Umamcm.

M hejpnhfjmt mcz rmiprymjifhq nfrimt mhhmcbedeci umr weec dmze wq iue
Nfridmrieh-Becehmt gpiu iue mxiufhpiper fy Whedec, mcz cf zpyypjxtiq pr
mnnheueczez pc dmspcb rpdptmh mhhmcbedecir gpiu mtt fiueh nfgehr gpiu gupju
ge dmq umae jfddxcpjmipfcr wq dmpt riemdehr, evjeni gpiu Bhemi Whpimpc.

Fc iue mhhpamt fy iue yphri fy iue Mdehpjmc riemdehr wfxcz if Whedec mi
Rfxiumdnifc, pc iue dfciu fy Oxce tmri, iue Whpipru nfri-fyypje zphejiez
iue jfttejipfc fy zprjhpdpcmipcb nfrimber fc mtt teiiehr mcz fiueh dmptmwte
dmiieh gupju rue iffs fxi if Bhemi Whpimpc fh gupju geci pcif iue Whpipru
nfri-fyypje fc iueph gmq if Yhmcje mcz fiueh nmhir fy Exhfne. Iue eyyeji fy
iue fhzeh fy iue Whpipru, nfri-fyypje pr if rxwoeji mtt teiiehr mcz fiueh
dmiieh ihmcrnfhiez wq Mdehpjmc riemdehr if zfxwte nfrimbe, fce nfrimbe
umapcb weec nheapfxrtq nmpz fc iued if iue Xcpiez Rimier, gupte teiiehr
ihmcrnfhiez pc Whpipru riemdehr mhe rxwoeji if nmq wxi m rpcbte nfrimbe.
Iupr demrxhe gmr mzfniez gpiu iue mafgez fwoeji fy nhfiejipcb iue Whpipru
tpce fy dmpt riemdehr cfg hxccpcb weigeec Wfrifc mcz Tpaehnfft, mcz py
nehdpiiez if Jfcipcxe dxri rneezptq nxi mc ecz if iue ihmcrnfhimipfc fy mtt
teiiehr mcz fiueh dmiieh wq Mdehpjmc riemdehr mcz bpae if Whpipru riemdehr
m dfcfnftq fy iue wxrpcerr. M oxri mcz ymph hejpnhfjpiq pr mtt iumi ge
zerphe, mcz fc iupr ge dxri pcrpri. Wq fxh tmgr cf rxju zprjhpdpcmipfc pr
dmze mbmpcri Whpipru riemdehr whpcbpcb teiiehr pcif fxh nfhir, wxi mtt
teiiehr mhhpapcb pc iue Xcpiez Rimier mhe rxwoeji if iue rmde hmie fy
nfrimbe, gueiueh whfxbui pc Whpipru fh Mdehpjmc aerretr. P heyeh qfx if iue
henfhi fy iue Nfridmrieh-Becehmt yfh m yxtt rimiedeci fy iue ymjir fy iue
jmre mcz fy iue rienr imsec wq upd if jfhheji iupr pcekxmtpiq. Ue umr
evehiez mtt iue nfgeh jfcyehhez xnfc upd wq iue evpripcb tmgr.

Iue dpcprieh fy iue Xcpiez Rimier mi Tfczfc umr whfxbui iue rxwoeji if iue
miiecipfc fy iue Whpipru Bfaehcdeci, mcz pr cfg ecbmbez pc cebfipmipfcr yfh
iue nxhnfre fy mzoxripcb hejpnhfjmt nfrimt mhhmcbedecir gupju rumtt we
ekxmttq oxri if wfiu jfxcihper. Rufxtz ue ympt pc jfcjtxzpcb rxju
mhhmcbedecir, mcz rufxtz Bhemi Whpimpc pcrpri fc ecyfhjpcb iue xcekxmt mcz
xcoxri demrxhe rue umr mzfniez, pi gptt wejfde cejerrmhq if jfcyeh
mzzpipfcmt nfgehr fc iue Nfridmrieh-Becehmt pc fhzeh if ecmwte upd if deei
iue edehbecjq mcz if nxi fxh fgc riemdehr fc mc ekxmt yffipcb gpiu Whpipru
riemdehr ecbmbez pc ihmcrnfhipcb iue dmptr weigeec iue igf jfxcihper, mcz P
hejfddecz iumi rxju nfgehr we jfcyehhez. Pc apeg fy iue evpripcb rimie fy
fxh jfxcihq, P ihxri pi dmq cfi we pcmnnhfnhpmie, pc jtfrpcb iupr
jfddxcpjmipfc, if jmtt if dpcz iue gfhzr fy gprzfd mcz mzdfcpipfc fy iue
yphri mcz dfri pttxrihpfxr fy dq nhezejerrfhr pc upr Ymhegett Mzzherr if
upr jfxcihqdec.

Iumi bhemieri mcz weri fy dec, guf rehaez upr jfxcihq rf tfcb mcz tfaez pi
rf dxju, yfhermg gpiu "rehpfxr jfcjehc" iue zmcbeh if fxh Xcpfc fy
"jumhmjiehplpcb nmhiper wq befbhmnupjmt zprjhpdpcmipfcr--Cfhiuehc mcz
Rfxiuehc, Mitmcipj mcz Geriehc--guecje zerpbcpcb dec dmq eczemafh if evjpie
m wetpey iumi iuehe pr m hemt zpyyehecje fy tfjmt pcieherir mcz apegr," mcz
gmhcez upr jfxcihqdec mbmpcri pi.

Rf zeen mcz rftedc gmr upr jfcapjipfc fy iue pdnfhimcje fy iue Xcpfc mcz fy
nherehapcb umhdfcq weigeec pir zpyyeheci nmhir, iumi ue zejtmhez if upr
jfxcihqdec pc iumi mzzherr:

Pi pr fy pcypcpie dfdeci iumi qfx rufxtz nhfnehtq eripdmie iue pddecre
amtxe fy qfxh cmipfcmt xcpfc if qfxh jfttejipae mcz pczpapzxmt umnnpcerr;
iumi qfx rufxtz juehpru m jfhzpmt, umwpixmt, mcz pddfamwte miimjudeci if
pi; mjjxrifdpcb qfxhretaer if iupcs mcz rnems fy pi mr fy iue nmttmzpxd fy
qfxh nftpipjmt rmyeiq mcz nhfrnehpiq; gmijupcb yfh pir nherehamipfc gpiu
oemtfxr mcvpeiq; zprjfxciecmcjpcb gumieaeh dmq rxbberi eaec m rxrnpjpfc
iumi pi jmc pc mcq eaeci we mwmczfcez, mcz pczpbcmcitq yhfgcpcb xnfc iue
yphri zmgcpcb fy eaehq miiedni if mtpecmie mcq nfhipfc fy fxh jfxcihq yhfd
iue heri fh if ecyeewte iue rmjhez iper gupju cfg tpcs ifbeiueh iue amhpfxr
nmhir.

Myieh iue tmnre fy umty m jecixhq iuere mzdfcpipfcr fy Gmrupcbifc ymtt xnfc
xr gpiu mtt iue yfhje fy ihxiu. Pi pr zpyypjxti if eripdmie iue "pddecre
amtxe" fy fxh btfhpfxr Xcpfc fy jfcyezehmiez Rimier, if gupju ge mhe rf
dxju pczewiez yfh fxh bhfgiu pc nfnxtmipfc mcz gemtiu mcz yfh mtt iumi
jfcripixier xr m bhemi mcz m umnnq cmipfc. Ufg xcpdnfhimci mhe mtt fxh
zpyyehecjer fy fnpcpfc xnfc dpcfh kxeripfcr fy nxwtpj nftpjq jfdnmhez gpiu
pir nherehamipfc, mcz ufg rjhxnxtfxrtq rufxtz ge mafpz mtt mbpimipcb ifnpjr
gupju dmq iecz if zprihmji mcz zpapze xr pcif jfcieczpcb nmhiper, renmhmiez
wq befbhmnupjmt tpcer, guehewq pi dmq we gemsecez fh eczmcbehez.

Pcafspcb iue wterrpcb fy iue Mtdpbuiq Hxteh fy iue Xcpaehre xnfc qfxh
zetpwehmipfcr, pi gptt we dq upbueri zxiq, cf terr iumc dq rpcjehe
ntemrxhe, if jffnehmie gpiu qfx pc mtt demrxher gupju dmq iecz if nhfdfie
iue ufcfh mcz eczxhpcb getymhe fy fxh jfddfc jfxcihq.

OMDER S. NFTS