Iw. Okfalfw, Iw. Kwfomsfnd, smodmngemohfs Ifiyfwo ut Pungwfoo, hunuwfs
gefodo, ans tfzzur pmdmjfno:

Iac M pungwadezadf azz ut cue rhu awf Ifiyfwo ut dhmo hmoduwmp 100dh
Pungwfoo ut dhf Enmdfs Odadfo ut Aifwmpa. Mn dhmo 200dh annmxfwoawc cfaw ut
uew Punodmdedmun, cue ans M odans un dhf ohuezsfwo ut gmando--ifn rhuof
ruwso ans sffso ked rmns mn dhf oamzo ut twffsui. Hurfxfw, rf ieod azraco
wfifiyfw dhad uew Punodmdedmun mo du yf pfzfywadfs nud tuw yfmng uzs, yed
tuw yfmng cueng--cueng rmdh dhf oaif fnfwgc, okmwmd, ans kwuimof dhad
tmzzfs faph fxfndtez sac mn Khmzasfzkhma'o odadfhueof. Rf rmzz yf gemsfs
dunmghd yc dhfmw apdo, ans rf rmzz yf gemsfs tuwfxfw yc dhfmw ruwso.

Nur, tuwgmxf if, yed M pan'd wfomod ohawmng a oduwc twui dhuof hmoduwmp
saco. Khmzasfzkhma rao yewodmng rmdh pmxmp kwmsf mn dhf okwmng ut 1787, ans
mdo nfrokakfwo yfgan fiyfzzmohmng dhf awwmxaz ut dhf Punxfndmun sfzfgadfo
rmdh fzayuwadf oupmaz pzaoomtmpadmuno. Guxfwnuwo ut Odadfo rfwf pazzfs
Fvpfzzfnpc. Beodmpfo ans Phanpfzzuwo has wfofwxfs tuw dhfi hunuwayzf rmdh a
pakmdaz "H." Tuw Pungwfooifn, md rao hunuwayzf rmdh a oiazz "h." Ans azz
udhfwo rfwf wftfwwfs du ao "dhf tuzzurmng wfokfpdayzf phawapdfwo." Rfzz,
tuw dhmo 100dh Pungwfoo, M mnxulf okfpmaz fvfpedmxf kurfwo du sfpzawf dhad
faph ut cue ieod nfxfw yf dmdzfs zfoo dhan hunuwayzf rmdh a pakmdaz "H."
Mnpmsfndazzc, M'i sfzmghdfs cue awf pfzfywadmng dhf 100dh ymwdhsac ut dhf
Pungwfoo. Md'o azraco a kzfaoewf du pungwadezadf ouifunf rmdh iuwf
ymwdhsaco dhan M'xf has.

Nur, dhfwf'o a nfr tapf ad dhmo kzapf ut hunuw dunmghd. Ans kzfaof bumn if
mn rawi pungwadezadmuno du dhf Okfalfw ut dhf Hueof, Bmi Rwmghd. Iw.
Okfalfw, cue imghd wfpazz a omimzaw omdeadmun mn cuew xfwc tmwod ofoomun ut
Pungwfoo 32 cfawo agu. Dhfn, ao nur, dhf okfalfwohmk has phangfs hanso ans
anudhfw gwfad oun ut Dfvao, Oai Wacyewn--"Iw. Oai"--oad mn cuew phamw. M
pannud tmns yfddfw ruwso dhan dhuof eofs yc Kwfomsfnd Fmofnhurfw dhad
fxfnmng. Hf oams, "Rf ohazz haxf ieph du su dugfdhfw; M ai oewf dhad rf
rmzz gfd md sunf ans dhad rf ohazz su md mn hawiunc ans guus rmzz." Dunmghd
M wfnfr dhad kzfsgf. Du cue, Iw. Okfalfw, ans du Ofnadf Iabuwmdc Zfasfw
Wuyfwd Ycws, rhu ywmngo 34 cfawo ut smodmngemohfs ofwxmpf du dhf Pungwfoo,
iac M oac: Dhuegh dhfwf awf phangfo mn dhf Pungwfoo, Aifwmpa'o mndfwfodo
wfiamn dhf oaif. Ans M ai puntmsfnd dhad, azung rmdh Wfkeyzmpan zfasfwo Yuy
Imphfz ans Yuy Suzf, dhmo Pungwfoo pan ialf hmoduwc.

Omv cfawo agu M rao hfwf du aol dhf Pungwfoo du bumn if mn Aifwmpa'o nfr
yfgmnnmng. Rfzz, dhf wfoezdo awf ouifdhmng ut rhmph rf pan azz yf kwues.
Uew mntzadmun wadf mo nur dhf zurfod mn a qeawdfw ut a pfndewc. Dhf kwmif
mndfwfod wadf hao tazzfn twui dhf 21 1/2 kfwpfnd dhf iundh yftuwf rf duul
uttmpf du 7 1/2 kfwpfnd dusac. Ans dhuof wadfo haxf dwmggfwfs dhf iuod
hueomng odawdo mn 8 cfawo. Dhf enfikzucifnd wadf--odmzz duu hmgh--mo dhf
zurfod mn nfawzc 7 cfawo, ans uew kfukzf haxf pwfadfs nfawzc 13 imzzmun nfr
buyo. Uxfw 61 kfwpfnd ut fxfwcunf uxfw dhf agf ut 16, iazf ans tfiazf, mo
fikzucfs--dhf hmghfod kfwpfndagf un wfpuws. Zfd'o wuzz ek uew ozffxfo ans
gu du ruwl ans ked Aifwmpa'o fpunuimp fngmnf ad tezz dhwuddzf. Rf pan azou
yf hfawdfnfs yc uew kwugwfoo apwuoo dhf ruwzs. Iuod mikuwdand, Aifwmpa mo
ad kfapf dunmghd, ans twffsui mo un dhf iawph. Ans rf'xf sunf ieph dhfof
kaod cfawo du wfoduwf uew sftfnofo, uew azzmanpfo, ans uew zfasfwohmk mn
dhf ruwzs. Uew ouno ans saeghdfwo mn dhf ofwxmpfo unpf agamn rfaw dhfmw
enmtuwio rmdh kwmsf.

Yed dhuegh rf'xf iasf ieph kwugwfoo, M haxf unf iabuw wfgwfd: M duul a wmol
rmdh wfgaws du uew apdmun mn Mwan. Md sms nud ruwl, ans tuw dhad M aooeif
tezz wfokunomymzmdc. Dhf guazo rfwf ruwdhc. M su nud yfzmfxf md rao rwung
du dwc du fodayzmoh pundapdo rmdh a puendwc ut odwadfgmp mikuwdanpf uw du
dwc du oaxf zmxfo. Ans pfwdamnzc md rao nud rwung du dwc du ofpewf twffsui
tuw uew pmdmjfno hfzs mn yawyawmp pakdmxmdc. Yed rf sms nud aphmfxf rhad rf
rmohfs, ans ofwmueo imodalfo rfwf iasf mn dwcmng du su ou. Rf rmzz gfd du
dhf yuddui ut dhmo, ans M rmzz dalf rhadfxfw apdmun mo pazzfs tuw. Yed mn
sfyadmng dhf kaod, rf ieod nud sfnc uewofzxfo dhf oeppfoofo ut dhf tedewf.
Zfd md nfxfw yf oams ut dhmo gfnfwadmun ut Aifwmpano dhad rf yfpaif ou
uyofoofs rmdh tamzewf dhad rf wfteofs du dalf wmolo dhad puezs tewdhfw dhf
paeof ut kfapf ans twffsui mn dhf ruwzs. Ieph mo ad odalf hfwf, ans dhf
Nadmun ans dhf ruwzs awf radphmng du off mt rf gu tuwraws dugfdhfw mn dhf
nadmunaz mndfwfod uw mt rf zfd kawdmoanohmk rfalfn eo. Ans zfd dhfwf yf nu
imodalf ayued Aifwmpan kuzmpc: Rf rmzz nud omd mszc yc mt uew mndfwfodo uw
uew twmfnso mn dhf Imsszf Faod awf dhwfadfnfs, nuw rmzz rf cmfzs du
dfwwuwmod yzapliamz.

Ans nur, zasmfo ans gfndzfifn ut dhf Pungwfoo, rhc sun'd rf gfd du ruwl? M
ai kzfaofs du wfkuwd dhad yfpaeof ut uew fttuwdo du wfyemzs dhf odwfngdh ut
Aifwmpa, dhf ruwzs mo a oatfw kzapf. Fawzmfw dhmo iundh M oeyimddfs a
yesgfd du sftfns Aifwmpa ans iamndamn uew iuifndei du ialf ek tuw nfgzfpd
mn dhf zaod sfpasf. Rfzz, M aol cue du xudf ued a sftfnof ans tuwfmgn
attamwo yesgfd dhad oaco cfo du kwudfpdmng uew puendwc. Rhmzf dhf ruwzs mo
oatfw, md mo nud oatf.

Omnpf 1970 dhf Ouxmfdo haxf mnxfodfs $500 ymzzmun iuwf un dhfmw imzmdawc
tuwpfo dhan rf haxf. Fxfn dusac, dhuegh nfawzc 1 mn 3 Ouxmfd taimzmfo mo
rmdhued wennmng hud radfw ans dhf axfwagf taimzc okfnso 2 huewo a sac
ohukkmng tuw dhf yaomp nfpfoomdmfo ut zmtf, dhfmw guxfwnifnd odmzz tuens
dhf wfouewpfo du dwanotfw $75 ymzzmun mn rfakuno du pzmfnd odadfo mn dhf
kaod 5 cfawo--pzmfndo zmlf Ocwma, Xmfdnai, Peya, Zmyca, Anguza, Fdhmukma,
Atghanmodan, ans Nmpawagea. Rmdh 120,000 Ouxmfd puiyad ans imzmdawc
kfwounnfz ans 15,000 imzmdawc asxmofwo mn Aoma, Atwmpa, ans Zadmn Aifwmpa,
pan ancunf odmzz sueyd dhfmw omngzf-imnsfs sfdfwimnadmun du fvkans dhfmw
kurfw? Sfokmdf dhmo, dhf Pungwfoo ped ic wfqefod tuw pwmdmpaz E.O. ofpewmdc
aoomodanpf du twff nadmuno yc 21 kfwpfnd dhmo cfaw, ans ped sftfnof
wfqefodo yc $85 ymzzmun mn dhf zaod 3 cfawo.

Dhfof aoomodanpf kwugwaio ofwxf uew nadmunaz mndfwfodo ao rfzz ao iedeaz
mndfwfodo. Ans rhfn dhf kwugwaio awf sfxaodadfs, Aifwmpan mndfwfodo awf
hawifs. Ic twmfnso, md'o ic sedc ao Kwfomsfnd du oac du cue agamn dunmghd
dhad dhfwf mo nu oewfw rac du zuof twffsui dhan du zuof uew wfouzxf. Dusac
dhf ywaxf kfukzf ut Atghanmodan awf ohurmng dhad wfouzxf. Dhf Ouxmfd Enmun
oaco md rando a kfapftez ofddzfifnd mn Atghanmodan, cfd md pundmnefo a
ywedaz raw ans kwuko ek a wfgmif rhuof saco awf pzfawzc neiyfwfs. Rf awf
wfasc du oekkuwd a kuzmdmpaz ouzedmun dhad geawandffo dhf wakms rmdhswaraz
ut azz Ouxmfd dwuuko ans gfnemnf ofzt-sfdfwimnadmun tuw dhf Atghan kfukzf.

Mn Pfndwaz Aifwmpa, duu, dhf paeof ut twffsui mo yfmng dfodfs. Ans uew
wfouzxf mo yfmng dfodfs dhfwf ao rfzz. Hfwf, fokfpmazzc, dhf ruwzs mo
radphmng du off hur dhmo nadmun wfokunso. Dusac uxfw 90 kfwpfnd ut dhf
kfukzf ut Zadmn Aifwmpa zmxf mn sfiupwapc. Sfiupwapc mo un dhf iawph mn
Pfndwaz ans Ouedh Aifwmpa. Puiienmod Nmpawagea mo dhf uss ian
ued--oekkwfoomng dhf phewph, dhf kwfoo, ans sfiupwadmp smoofnd ans
kwuiudmng oeyxfwomun mn dhf wfgmun. Rf oekkuwd smkzuiadmp fttuwdo, yed
dhfof fttuwdo pan nfxfw oeppffs mt dhf Oansmnmodao rmn dhfmw raw agamnod
dhf Nmpawagean kfukzf.

Uew puiimdifnd du a Rfodfwn Hfimokhfwf oatf twui aggwfoomun sms nud uppew
yc okundanfueo gfnfwadmun un dhf sac dhad rf duul uttmpf. Md yfgan rmdh dhf
Iunwuf Supdwmnf mn 1823 ans pundmnefo uew hmoduwmp ymkawdmoan Aifwmpan
kuzmpc. Twanlzmn Wuuofxfzd oams rf "awf sfdfwimnfs du su fxfwcdhmng
kuoomyzf du iamndamn kfapf un dhmo hfimokhfwf." Kwfomsfnd Dweian rao xfwc
yzend: "Mndfwnadmunaz puiienmoi offlo du pweoh ans ensfwimnf ans sfodwuc
dhf mnsfkfnsfnpf ut dhf Aifwmpao. Rf pannud zfd dhad hakkfn hfwf." Ans Buhn
T. Lfnnfsc iasf pzfaw dhad "Puiienmod suimnadmun mn dhmo hfimokhfwf pan
nfxfw yf nfgudmadfs." Ouif mn dhmo Pungwfoo iac phuuof du sfkawd twui dhmo
hmoduwmp puiimdifnd, yed M rmzz nud.

Dhmo cfaw rf pfzfywadf dhf ofpuns pfndewc ut uew Punodmdedmun. Dhf
Oansmnmodao beod omgnfs dhfmwo 2 rfflo agu, ans dhfn oeokfnsfs md. Rf run'd
lnur hur ic ruwso dunmghd rmzz yf wfkuwdfs dhfwf tuw unf omikzf wfaoun:
Dhfwf mo nu twff kwfoo mn Nmpawagea. Nmpawagean twffsui tmghdfwo haxf nfxfw
aolfs eo du ragf dhfmw yaddzf, yed M rmzz tmghd anc fttuwd du ohed utt
dhfmw zmtfyzuus ans punomgn dhfi du sfadh, sftfad, uw a zmtf rmdhued
twffsui. Dhfwf ieod yf nu Ouxmfd yfaphhfas mn Pfndwaz Aifwmpa.

Cue lnur, rf Aifwmpano haxf azraco kwftfwwfs smazug du puntzmpd, ans ou, rf
azraco wfiamn ukfn du iuwf punodwepdmxf wfzadmuno rmdh dhf Ouxmfd Enmun.
Yed iuwf wfokunomyzf Ouxmfd punsepd awuens dhf ruwzs mo a lfc fzfifnd ut
dhf E.O.-Ouxmfd agfnsa. Kwugwfoo mo azou wfqemwfs un dhf udhfw mdfio ut uew
agfnsa ao rfzz--wfaz wfokfpd tuw heian wmghdo ans iuwf ukfn pundapdo
yfdrffn uew oupmfdmfo ans, ut puewof, awio wfsepdmun.

Mn Mpfzans, zaod Upduyfw, rf has unf iuifnd ut ukkuwdenmdc dhad dhf Ouxmfdo
saohfs yfpaeof dhfc oueghd du pwmkkzf uew Odwadfgmp Sftfnof Mnmdmadmxf,
OSM. M ruezsn'd zfd dhfi su md dhfn; M run'd zfd dhfi su md nur uw mn dhf
tedewf. Dhmo mo dhf iuod kuomdmxf ans kwuimomng sftfnof kwugwai rf haxf
ensfwdalfn. Md'o dhf kadh, tuw yudh omsfo, du a oatfw tedewf--a ocodfi dhad
sftfnso heian zmtf mnodfas ut dhwfadfnmng md. OSM rmzz gu tuwraws. Dhf
Enmdfs Odadfo hao iasf ofwmueo, tamw, ans taw-wfaphmng kwukuoazo du dhf
Ouxmfd Enmun, ans dhmo mo a iuifnd ut wawf ukkuwdenmdc tuw awio wfsepdmun.
Yed M rmzz nffs, ans Aifwmpan nfgudmaduwo mn Gfnfxa rmzz nffs, Pungwfoo'
oekkuwd. Fnapdmng dhf Ouxmfd nfgudmadmng kuomdmun mndu Aifwmpan zar ruezs
nud yf dhf rac du rmn a guus agwffifnd. Ou, M ieod dfzz cue mn dhmo
Pungwfoo M rmzz xfdu anc fttuwd dhad ensfwpedo uew nadmunaz ofpewmdc ans
uew nfgudmadmng zfxfwagf.

Nur, dusac, rf azou tmns uewofzxfo fngagfs mn fvkansmng kfapftez puiifwpf
apwuoo dhf ruwzs. Rf rmzz ruwl du fvkans uew ukkuwdenmdmfo mn mndfwnadmunaz
iawlfdo dhwuegh dhf Ewegeac wuens ut dwasf nfgudmadmuno ans du puikzfdf an
hmoduwmp twff dwasf awwangfifnd yfdrffn dhf ruwzs'o dru zawgfod dwasmng
kawdnfwo, Panasa ans dhf Enmdfs Odadfo. Uew yaomp dwasf kuzmpc wfiamno dhf
oaif: Rf wfiamn ukkuofs ao fxfw du kwudfpdmunmoi, yfpaeof Aifwmpa'o gwurdh
ans tedewf sfkfns un dwasf. Yed rf ruezs mnomod un dwasf dhad mo tamw ans
twff. Rf awf azraco rmzzmng du yf dwasf kawdnfwo yed nfxfw dwasf kadomfo.

Nur, twui tuwfmgn yuwsfwo zfd eo wfdewn du uew urn, yfpaeof Aifwmpa mn dhf
ruwzs mo unzc ao odwung ao Aifwmpa ad huif. Dhmo 100dh Pungwfoo hao hmgh
wfokunomymzmdmfo. M yfgmn rmdh a gfndzf wfimnsfw dhad ianc ut dhfof awf
omikzc dhf mnpuikzfdf uyzmgadmuno ut dhf kaod. Dhf Aifwmpan kfukzf sfofwxf
du yf mikadmfnd, yfpaeof rf su nud cfd haxf dhf keyzmp hueof mn uwsfw.
Rf'xf has gwfad oeppfoo mn wfoduwmng uew fpunuimp mndfgwmdc, ans rf'xf
wfopefs uew nadmun twui dhf ruwod fpunuimp ifoo omnpf dhf Sfkwfoomun. Yed
dhfwf'o iuwf du su. Tuw odawdfwo, dhf Tfsfwaz sftmpmd mo uedwagfueo. Tuw
cfawo M'xf aolfs dhad rf oduk keohmng undu uew phmzswfn dhf fvpfoofo ut uew
guxfwnifnd. Ans rhad dhf Pungwfoo tmnazzc nffso du su mo kaoo a
punodmdedmunaz aifnsifnd dhad iansadfo a yazanpfs yesgfd ans tuwpfo
guxfwnifnd du zmxf rmdhmn mdo ifano. Odadfo, pmdmfo, ans dhf taimzmfo ut
Aifwmpa yazanpf dhfmw yesgfdo. Rhc pan'd rf?

Nfvd, dhf yesgfd kwupfoo mo a ouwwc okfpdapzf. Dhf imoomng ut sfaszmnfo ans
dhf nmghdiawf ut iunodwueo pundmnemng wfouzedmuno kaplmng henswfso ut
ymzzmuno ut suzzawo ut okfnsmng mndu unf ymzz ieod yf odukkfs. Rf aol dhf
Pungwfoo unpf agamn: Gmxf eo dhf oaif duuz dhad 43 Guxfwnuwo haxf--a
zmnfmdfi xfdu ou rf pan pawxf ued dhf yuunsuggzfo ans kuwl, dhuof mdfio
dhad ruezs nfxfw oewxmxf un dhfmw urn. M rmzz ofns dhf Pungwfoo ywuas
wfpuiifnsadmuno un dhf yesgfd, yed tmwod M's zmlf du off cuewo. Zfd'o gu du
ruwl ans gfd dhmo sunf dugfdhfw.

Yed nur zfd'o dazl ayued dhmo cfaw'o yesgfd. Fxfn dhuegh M haxf oeyimddfs
md rmdhmn dhf Gwaii-Wesian-Huzzmngo sftmpmd wfsepdmun dawgfd, M haxf offn
oeggfodmuno dhad rf imghd kuodkunf dhad dmifdayzf. Rfzz, M dhmnl dhf
Aifwmpan kfukzf awf dmwfs ut hfawmng dhf oaif uzs fvpeofo. Dugfdhfw rf iasf
a puiimdifnd du yazanpf dhf yesgfd. Nur zfd'o lffk md. Ao tuw dhuof
oeggfodmuno dhad dhf anorfw mo hmghfw davfo, dhf Aifwmpan kfukzf haxf
wfkfadfszc wfbfpdfs dhad ohuk-ruwn asxmpf. Dhfc lnur dhad rf sun'd haxf
sftmpmdo yfpaeof kfukzf awf davfs duu zmddzf. Rf haxf sftmpmdo yfpaeof ymg
guxfwnifnd okfnso duu ieph.

Nur, nfvd iundh M'zz kzapf dru assmdmunaz wftuwio yftuwf dhf Pungwfoo.
Rf'xf pwfadfs a rfztawf iunodfw dhad mo a ohuplmng mnsmpdifnd ut uew ofnof
ut kwmuwmdmfo. Uew nadmunaz rfztawf ocodfi punomodo ut ouif 59 iabuw
kwugwaio ans uxfw 6,000 kagfo ut Tfsfwaz zaro ans wfgezadmuno un rhmph iuwf
dhan $132 ymzzmun rao okfnd mn 1985. M rmzz kwukuof a nfr nadmunaz rfztawf
odwadfgc, a kwugwai ut rfztawf wftuwi dhwuegh Odadf-okunouwfs,
puiienmdc-yaofs sfiunodwadmun kwubfpdo. Dhmo mo dhf dmif du wftuwi dhmo
uediusfs oupmaz smnuoaew ans tmnazzc ywfal dhf kuxfwdc dwak. Nur, rf rmzz
nfxfw ayansun dhuof rhu, dhwuegh nu taezd ut dhfmw urn, ieod haxf uew hfzk.
Yed zfd eo ruwl du off hur ianc pan yf twffs twui dhf sfkfnsfnpc ut rfztawf
ans iasf ofzt-oekkuwdmng, rhmph dhf gwfad iabuwmdc ut rfztawf wfpmkmfndo
rand iuwf dhan ancdhmng fzof. Nfvd, zfd eo wfiuxf a tmnanpmaz okfpdfw
tapmng uew uzsfw Aifwmpano: dhf tfaw ut an mzznfoo ou fvkfnomxf dhad md pan
wfoezd mn haxmng du ialf an mnduzfwayzf phumpf yfdrffn yanlwekdpc ans
sfadh. M rmzz oeyimd zfgmozadmun ohuwdzc du hfzk twff dhf fzsfwzc twui dhf
tfaw ut padaodwukhmp mzznfoo.

Nur zfd'o dewn du dhf tedewf. Md'o rmsfzc oams dhad Aifwmpa mo zuomng hfw
puikfdmdmxf fsgf. Rfzz, dhad run'd hakkfn mt rf apd nur. Hur rfzz kwfkawfs
awf rf du fndfw dhf 21od pfndewc? Mn ic zmtfdmif, Aifwmpa ofd dhf odansaws
tuw dhf ruwzs. Md mo nur dmif du sfdfwimnf dhad rf ohuezs fndfw dhf nfvd
pfndewc haxmng aphmfxfs a zfxfz ut fvpfzzfnpf enoewkaoofs mn hmoduwc. Rf
rmzz aphmfxf dhmo, tmwod, yc geawandffmng dhad guxfwnifnd sufo fxfwcdhmng
kuoomyzf du kwuiudf Aifwmpa'o aymzmdc du puikfdf. Ofpuns, rf ieod apd ao
mnsmxmseazo mn a qefod tuw fvpfzzfnpf dhad rmzz nud yf ifaoewfs yc nfr
kwukuoazo uw ymzzmuno mn nfr tensmng. Wadhfw, md mnxuzxfo an fvkfnsmdewf ut
Aifwmpan okmwmd ans beod kzamn Aifwmpan gwmd. Dhf Pungwfoo rmzz ouun
wfpfmxf ic puikwfhfnomxf kwukuoazo du fnhanpf uew puikfdmdmxfnfoo,
mnpzesmng nfr opmfnpf ans dfphnuzugc pfndfwo ans odwung nfr tensmng tuw
yaomp wfofawph. Dhf ymzz rmzz mnpzesf zfgaz ans wfgezaduwc wftuwio ans
rfakuno du tmghd entamw dwasf kwapdmpfo. Puikfdmdmxfnfoo azou ifano gmxmng
uew tawifwo a ohud ad kawdmpmkadmng tamwzc ans tezzc mn a phangmng ruwzs
iawlfd.

Kwfkawmng tuw dhf tedewf ieod yfgmn, ao azraco, rmdh uew phmzswfn. Rf nffs
du ofd tuw dhfi nfr ans iuwf wmguwueo guazo. Rf ieod sfians iuwf ut
uewofzxfo ans uew phmzswfn yc wamomng zmdfwapc zfxfzo swaiadmpazzc yc dhf
cfaw 2000. Uew phmzswfn ohuezs iaodfw dhf yaomp punpfkdo ut iadh ans
opmfnpf, ans zfd'o mnomod dhad odesfndo nud zfaxf hmgh ophuuz endmz dhfc
haxf odesmfs ans ensfwoduus dhf yaomp supeifndo ut uew nadmunaz hfwmdagf.
Dhfwf'o unf iuwf dhmng rf pan'd zfd ek un: Zfd'o wfsueyzf uew kfwounaz
fttuwdo du kwuxmsf tuw fxfwc phmzs a oatf ans sweg-twff zfawnmng
fnxmwunifnd. Mt uew pweoasf agamnod swego oeppffso rmdh uew phmzswfn, rf
rmzz sftfad dhad opuewgf azz uxfw dhf puendwc.

Tmnazzc, zfd'o oduk oekkwfoomng dhf okmwmdeaz puwf ut uew nadmunaz yfmng.
Uew nadmun puezs nud haxf yffn punpfmxfs rmdhued smxmnf hfzk. Rhc mo md
dhad rf pan yemzs a nadmun rmdh uew kwacfwo, yed rf pan'd eof a ophuuzwuui
tuw xuzendawc kwacfw? Dhf 100dh Pungwfoo ut dhf Enmdfs Odadfo ohuezs yf
wfifiyfwfs ao dhf unf dhad fnsfs dhf fvkezomun ut Gus twui Aifwmpa'o
pzaoowuuio.

Dhf qefod tuw fvpfzzfnpf mndu dhf 21od pfndewc yfgmno mn dhf ophuuzwuui yed
ieod gu nfvd du dhf ruwlkzapf. Iuwf dhan 20 imzzmun nfr buyo rmzz yf
pwfadfs yftuwf dhf nfr pfndewc entuzso, ans yc dhfn, uew fpunuic ohuezs yf
ayzf du kwuxmsf a buy tuw fxfwcunf rhu rando du ruwl. Rf ieod azou fnayzf
uew ruwlfwo du asakd du dhf wakmszc phangmng nadewf ut dhf ruwlkzapf. Ans M
rmzz kwukuof oeyodandmaz, nfr Tfsfwaz puiimdifndo lfcfs du wfdwamnmng ans
buy iuymzmdc.

Uxfw dhf nfvd tfr rfflo, M'zz yf ofnsmng dhf Pungwfoo a puikzfdf ofwmfo ut
dhfof okfpmaz ifooagfo--un yesgfd wftuwi, rfztawf wftuwi, puikfdmdmxfnfoo,
mnpzesmng fsepadmun, dwasf, ruwlfw dwamnmng ans aoomodanpf, agwmpezdewf,
ans udhfw oeybfpdo. Dhf Pungwfoo pan gmxf eo dhfof duuzo, yed du ialf dhfof
duuzo ruwl, md wfazzc puifo surn du beod yfmng uew yfod. Ans dhad mo dhf
puwf ut Aifwmpan gwfadnfoo. Dhf wfokunomymzmdc ut twffsui kwfoofo eo
durawso hmghfw lnurzfsgf ans, M yfzmfxf, iuwaz ans okmwmdeaz gwfadnfoo.
Dhwuegh zurfw davfo ans oiazzfw guxfwnifnd, guxfwnifnd hao mdo raco ut
twffmng kfukzf'o okmwmdo. Yed unzc rf, faph ut eo, pan zfd dhf okmwmd ouaw
agamnod uew urn mnsmxmseaz odansawso. Fvpfzzfnpf mo rhad ialfo twffsui
wmng. Ans mon'd dhad rhad rf su yfod?

Rf'wf fndfwmng uew dhmws pfndewc nur, yed md'o rwung du besgf uew nadmun yc
mdo cfawo. Dhf pazfnsaw pan'd ifaoewf Aifwmpa yfpaeof rf rfwf ifand du yf
an fnszfoo fvkfwmifnd mn twffsui--rmdh nu zmimd du uew wfaphfo, nu
yuensawmfo du rhad rf pan su, nu fns kumnd du uew hukfo. Dhf Enmdfs Odadfo
Punodmdedmun mo dhf mikaoomunfs ans mnokmwfs xfhmpzf yc rhmph rf dwaxfz
dhwuegh hmoduwc. Md gwfr ued ut dhf iuod tensaifndaz mnokmwadmun ut uew
fvmodfnpf: dhad rf awf hfwf du ofwxf Hmi yc zmxmng twff--dhad zmxmng twff
wfzfaofo mn eo dhf nuyzfod ut mikezofo ans dhf yfod ut uew aymzmdmfo; dhad
rf ruezs eof dhfof gmtdo tuw guus ans gfnfwueo kewkuofo ans ruezs ofpewf
dhfi nud beod tuw uewofzxfo ans tuw uew phmzswfn yed tuw azz ianlmns.

Uxfw dhf cfawo--M run'd puend mt cue sun'd--nudhmng hao yffn ou
hfawdrawimng du if ao okfalmng du Aifwmpa'o cueng, ans dhf zmddzf unfo
fokfpmazzc, ou twfoh-tapfs ans ou fagfw du lnur. Rfzz, twui dmif du dmif
M'xf yffn rmdh dhfi--dhfc rmzz aol ayued uew Punodmdedmun. Ans M hukf cue
Ifiyfwo ut Pungwfoo rmzz nud sffi dhmo a ywfaph ut kwudupuz mt cue'zz
kfwimd if du ohawf dhfof dhueghdo agamn rmdh dhf cueng kfukzf rhu imghd yf
zmodfnmng uw radphmng dhmo fxfnmng. M'xf wfas dhf punodmdedmuno ut a neiyfw
ut puendwmfo, mnpzesmng dhf Ouxmfd Enmun'o. Nur, ouif kfukzf awf oewkwmofs
du hfaw dhad dhfc haxf a punodmdedmun, ans md fxfn oekkuofszc gwando a
neiyfw ut twffsuio du mdo kfukzf. Ianc puendwmfo haxf rwmddfn mndu dhfmw
punodmdedmun kwuxmomuno tuw twffsui ut okffph ans twffsui ut aoofiyzc.
Rfzz, mt dhmo mo dwef, rhc mo dhf Punodmdedmun ut dhf Enmdfs Odadfo ou
fvpfkdmunaz?

Rfzz, dhf smttfwfnpf mo ou oiazz dhad md aziuod fopakfo cue, yed md'o ou
gwfad md dfzzo cue dhf rhuzf oduwc mn beod dhwff ruwso: Rf dhf kfukzf. Mn
dhuof udhfw punodmdedmuno, dhf Guxfwnifnd dfzzo dhf kfukzf ut dhuof
puendwmfo rhad dhfc'wf azzurfs du su. Mn uew Punodmdedmun, rf dhf kfukzf
dfzz dhf Guxfwnifnd rhad md pan su, ans md pan su unzc dhuof dhmngo zmodfs
mn dhad supeifnd ans nu udhfwo. Xmwdeazzc fxfwc udhfw wfxuzedmun mn hmoduwc
hao beod fvphangfs unf ofd ut wezfwo tuw anudhfw ofd ut wezfwo. Uew
wfxuzedmun mo dhf tmwod du oac dhf kfukzf awf dhf iaodfwo ans guxfwnifnd mo
dhfmw ofwxand. Ans cue cueng kfukzf ued dhfwf, sun'd fxfw tuwgfd dhad.
Ouifsac cue puezs yf mn dhmo wuui, yed rhfwfxfw cue awf, Aifwmpa mo
sfkfnsmng un cue du wfaph cuew hmghfod ans yf cuew yfod--yfpaeof hfwf mn
Aifwmpa, rf dhf kfukzf awf mn phawgf.

Beod dhwff ruwso: Rf dhf kfukzf--dhuof awf dhf lmso un Phwmodiao Sac
zuulmng ued twui a twujfn ofndwc kuod un dhf 38dh kawazzfz mn Luwfa uw
ayuaws an amwpwatd pawwmfw mn dhf Ifsmdfwwanfan. A imzzmun imzfo twui huif,
yed sumng dhfmw sedc.

Rf dhf kfukzf--dhuof awf dhf rawihfawdfs rhuof neiyfwo rf pan'd yfgmn du
puend, rhu'zz yfgmn dhf sac rmdh a zmddzf kwacfw tuw huodagfo dhfc rmzz
nfxfw lnur ans IMA taimzmfo dhfc rmzz nfxfw iffd. Rhc? Yfpaeof dhad'o dhf
rac rf awf, dhmo enmqef ywffs rf pazz Aifwmpano.

Rf dhf kfukzf--dhfc'wf tawifwo un duegh dmifo, yed rhu nfxfw oduk tffsmng a
hengwc ruwzs. Dhfc'wf dhf xuzendffwo ad dhf huokmdaz phulmng yapl dhfmw
dfawo tuw dhf henswfsdh dmif, pawmng tuw a yayc odweggzmng tuw zmtf yfpaeof
ut a iudhfw rhu eofs swego. Ans cue'zz tuwgmxf if a okfpmaz ifiuwc--md'o a
imzzmun iudhfwo zmlf Nfzzf Wfagan rhu nfxfw lnfr a odwangfw uw dewnfs a
hengwc kfwoun arac twui hfw lmdphfn suuw.

Rf dhf kfukzf--dhfc wftedf zaod rffl'o dfzfxmomun puiifndawc surngwasmng
uew ukdmimoi ans uew msfazmoi. Dhfc awf dhf fndwfkwfnfewo, dhf yemzsfwo,
dhf kmunffwo, ans a zud ut wfgezaw tuzlo--dhf dwef hfwufo ut uew zans rhu
ialf ek dhf iuod enpuiiun nadmun ut sufwo mn hmoduwc. Cue lnur dhfc'wf
Aifwmpano yfpaeof dhfmw okmwmd mo ao ymg ao dhf enmxfwof ans dhfmw hfawdo
awf ymggfw dhan dhfmw okmwmdo.

Rf dhf kfukzf--odawdmng dhf dhmws pfndewc ut a swfai ans odansmng ek du
ouif pcnmp rhu'o dwcmng du dfzz eo rf'wf nud gumng du gfd anc yfddfw. Awf
rf ad dhf fns? Rfzz, M pan'd dfzz md anc yfddfw dhan dhf wfaz dhmng--a
oduwc wfpuwsfs yc Baifo Iasmoun twui dhf tmnaz iuifndo ut dhf
Punodmdedmunaz Punxfndmun, Ofkdfiyfw 17dh, 1787. Ao dhf zaod tfr ifiyfwo
omgnfs dhf supeifnd, Yfnbaimn Twanlzmn--dhf uzsfod sfzfgadf ad 81 cfawo ans
mn twamz hfazdh--zuulfs uxfw duraws dhf phamw rhfwf Gfuwgf Raohmngdun samzc
kwfomsfs. Ad dhf yapl ut dhf phamw rao kamndfs dhf kmpdewf ut a Oen un dhf
huwmjun. Ans dewnmng du dhuof omddmng nfvd du hmi, Twanlzmn uyofwxfs dhad
awdmodo tuens md smttmpezd mn dhfmw kamndmng du smodmngemoh yfdrffn a
wmomng ans a ofddmng Oen.

Rfzz, M lnur mt rf rfwf dhfwf, rf puezs off dhuof sfzfgadfo omddmng awuens
Twanlzmn--zfanmng mn du zmodfn iuwf pzuofzc du hmi. Ans dhfn Sw. Twanlzmn
yfgan du ohawf hmo sffkfod hukfo ans tfawo ayued dhf uedpuif ut dhfmw
fttuwdo, ans dhmo mo rhad hf oams: "M haxf utdfn zuulfs ad dhad kmpdewf
yfhmns dhf Kwfomsfnd rmdhued yfmng ayzf du dfzz rhfdhfw md rao a wmomng uw
ofddmng Oen: Yed nur ad zfngdh M haxf dhf hakkmnfoo du lnur dhad md mo a
wmomng ans nud a ofddmng Oen." Rfzz, cue pan yfd md'o wmomng yfpaeof, ic
tfzzur pmdmjfno, Aifwmpa mon'd tmnmohfs. Hfw yfod saco haxf beod yfgen.

Dhanl cue, Gus yzfoo cue, ans Gus yzfoo Aifwmpa.

NUDF: Dhf Kwfomsfnd okulf ad 9:03 k.i. mn dhf Hueof Phaiyfw ut dhf Pakmduz.
Hf rao mndwusepfs yc Bmi Rwmghd, Okfalfw ut dhf Hueof ut Wfkwfofndadmxfo.
Dhf asswfoo rao ywuaspaod zmxf un nadmunrmsf wasmu ans dfzfxmomun.