Hx. Diejtex, Hx. Ixedrgebc, grdcrbvfrdseg Hehpexd zo cse Nzbvxedd, szbzxeg
vfedcd, jbg oeuuzk nrcrlebd:

R nzhe peozxe qzf cz xeizxc zb cse dcjce zo zfx Fbrzb, jbg R'h iuejdeg cz
xeizxc csjc jocex 4 qejxd zo fbrceg eoozxc, cse Jhexrnjb ieziue sjye
pxzfvsc ozxcs j bjcrzb xebekeg, dcxzbvex, oxeex, jbg hzxe denfxe csjb
peozxe.

Ozfx qejxd jvz ke pevjb cz nsjbve, ozxeyex R szie, zfx jddfhicrzbd jpzfc
vzyexbhebc jbg rcd iujne rb zfx uryed. Zfc zo csjc nsjbve sjd nzhe vxejc
jbg xzpfdc vxzkcs--rb zfx nzborgebne, zfx enzbzhq, jbg zfx xzue rb cse
kzxug.

Czbrvsc Jhexrnj rd dcxzbvex penjfde zo cse yjufed csjc ke szug gejx. Ke
peureye ojrcs jbg oxeegzh hfdc pe zfx vfrgrbv dcjxd, ozx cseq dszk fd
cxfcs, cseq hjte fd pxjye, vrye fd szie, jbg uejye fd krdex csjb ke kexe.
Zfx ixzvxedd pevjb bzc rb Kjdsrbvczb, GN, pfc rb cse sejxcd zo zfx
ojhrured, nzhhfbrcred, kzxtiujned, jbg yzufbcjxq vxzfid ksrns, czvecsex,
jxe fbuejdsrbv cse rbyrbnrpue dirxrc zo zbe vxejc bjcrzb fbgex Vzg.

Ozfx qejxd jvz ke djrg ke kzfug rbyrvzxjce zfx enzbzhq pq vryrbv ieziue
vxejcex oxeegzh jbg rbnebcryed cz cjte xrdtd jbg ueccrbv cseh teei hzxe zo
ksjc cseq ejxbeg. Ke grg ksjc ke ixzhrdeg, jbg j vxejc rbgfdcxrju vrjbc rd
xepzxb.

Czbrvsc ke njb cjte ixrge rb 25 dcxjrvsc hzbcsd zo enzbzhrn vxzkcs, cse
dcxzbvedc rb 34 qejxd; j 3-qejx rboujcrzb jyexjve zo 3.9 iexnebc, cse
uzkedc rb 17 qejxd; jbg 7.3 hruurzb bek wzpd rb 2 qejxd, krcs hzxe zo zfx
nrcrlebd kzxtrbv csjb eyex peozxe.

Bek oxeegzh rb zfx uryed sjd iujbceg cse xrns deegd ozx ofcfxe dfnnedd:

Ozx jb Jhexrnj zo krdgzh csjc szbzxd cse ojhruq, tbzkrbv csjc ro (jd) cse
ojhruq vzed, dz vzed zfx nryrurljcrzb;

Ozx jb Jhexrnj zo yrdrzb csjc deed czhzxxzk'd gxejhd rb cse uejxbrbv jbg
sjxg kzxt ke gz czgjq;

Ozx jb Jhexrnj zo nzfxjve kszde dexyrne heb jbg kzheb, eyeb jd ke heec,
ixzfguq dcjbg kjcns zb cse oxzbcrexd zo oxeegzh;

Ozx jb Jhexrnj zo nzhijddrzb csjc ziebd rcd sejxc cz cszde ksz nxq zfc ozx
seui.

Ke sjye pevfb keuu. Pfc rc'd zbuq j pevrbbrbv. Ke'xe bzc sexe cz
nzbvxjcfujce zfxdeuyed zb ksjc ke sjye gzbe pfc cz nsjuuebve zfxdeuyed cz
orbrds ksjc sjd bzc qec peeb gzbe.

Ke'xe sexe cz diejt ozx hruurzbd rb zfx rbbex nrcred ksz uzbv ozx xeju
wzpd, djoe bervspzxszzgd, jbg dnszzud csjc cxfuq cejns. Ke'xe sexe cz diejt
ozx cse Jhexrnjb ojxhex, cse ebcxeixebefx, jbg eyexq kzxtex rb rbgfdcxred
orvscrbv cz hzgexbrle jbg nzhiece. Jbg, qed, ke'xe sexe cz dcjbg, jbg
ixzfguq dz, ozx juu ksz dcxfvvue cz pxejt oxee oxzh czcjurcjxrjbrdh, ozx
juu ksz tbzk rb cserx sejxcd csjc oxeegzh rd cse zbe cxfe ijcs cz iejne jbg
sfhjb sjiirbedd.

Ixzyexpd ceuu fd, krcszfc j yrdrzb cse ieziue iexrds. Kseb jdteg ksjc vxejc
ixrbnriue szugd zfx Fbrzb czvecsex, Jpxjsjh Urbnzub djrg: "Dzhecsrbv rb
(cse) Genujxjcrzb vryrbv urpexcq, bzc juzbe cz cse ieziue zo csrd nzfbcxq,
pfc szie cz cse kzxug ozx juu ofcfxe crhe."

Ke szbzx cse vrjbcd zo zfx srdczxq bzc pq vzrbv pjnt pfc ozxkjxg cz cse
gxejhd cserx yrdrzb ozxedjk. Hq oeuuzk nrcrlebd, csrd bjcrzb rd izrdeg ozx
vxejcbedd. Cse crhe sjd nzhe cz ixzneeg czkjxg j vxejc bek nsjuuebve--j
denzbg Jhexrnjb Xeyzufcrzb zo szie jbg ziizxcfbrcq; j xeyzufcrzb njxxqrbv
fd cz bek servscd zo ixzvxedd pq ifdsrbv pjnt oxzbcrexd zo tbzkuegve jbg
dijne; j xeyzufcrzb zo dirxrc csjc cjid cse dzfu zo Jhexrnj, ebjpurbv fd cz
dfhhzb vxejcex dcxebvcs csjb ke'ye eyex tbzkb; jbg j xeyzufcrzb csjc
njxxred peqzbg zfx dszxed cse vzugeb ixzhrde zo sfhjb oxeegzh rb j kzxug zo
iejne.

Uec fd pevrb pq nsjuuebvrbv zfx nzbyebcrzbju krdgzh. Csexe jxe bz
nzbdcxjrbcd zb cse sfhjb hrbg, bz kjuud jxzfbg cse sfhjb dirxrc, bz
pjxxrexd cz zfx ixzvxedd emneic cszde ke zfxdeuyed exenc. Juxejgq, ifdsrbv
gzkb cjm xjced sjd oxeeg zfx enzbzhq cz yjfuc ozxkjxg cz xenzxg vxzkcs.

Rb Efxzie, cseq'xe njuurbv rc "cse Jhexrnjb Hrxjnue." Gjq pq gjq, ke'xe
dsjccexrbv jnneiceg bzcrzbd zo ksjc rd izddrpue. Kseb R kjd vxzkrbv fi, ke
ojrueg cz dee szk j bek csrbv njuueg xjgrz kzfug cxjbdozxh zfx hjxteciujne.
Keuu, czgjq, hjbq sjye bzc qec deeb szk jgyjbned rb censbzuzvq jxe
cxjbdozxhrbv zfx uryed.

Rb cse ujce 1950'd kzxtexd jc cse JC&jhi;C dehrnzbgfnczx iujbc rb Iebbdquyjbrj
ixzgfneg orye cxjbdrdczxd j gjq ozx $7.50 jirene. Cseq bzk ixzgfne zyex j
hruurzb ozx uedd csjb j iebbq jirene.

Bek ujdex censbrafed nzfug xeyzufcrzbrle sejxc pqijdd dfxvexq, nfc
grjvbzdrd crhe ozx yrxfded urbteg cz njbnex oxzh keetd cz hrbfced, xegfne
szdircju nzdcd gxjhjcrnjuuq, jbg szug zfc bek ixzhrde ozx djyrbv sfhjb
uryed.

Zfx jfczhzprue rbgfdcxq sjd zyexsjfueg jddehpuq urbed, rbnxejdeg kzxtex
ixzgfncryrcq, jbg rd nzhiecrcrye zbne jvjrb.

Ke dcjbg zb cse csxedszug zo j vxejc jprurcq cz ixzgfne hzxe, gz hzxe, pe
hzxe. Zfx enzbzhq rd bzc veccrbv zugex jbg kejtex; rc'd veccrbv qzfbvex jbg
dcxzbvex. Rc gzedb'c beeg xedc jbg dfiexyrdrzb; rc beegd bek nsjuuebve,
vxejcex oxeegzh. Jbg csjc kzxg "oxeegzh" rd cse teq cz cse denzbg Jhexrnjb
xeyzufcrzb csjc ke beeg cz pxrbv jpzfc.

Uec fd hzye czvecsex krcs jb srdczxrn xeozxh zo cjm drhiurornjcrzb ozx
ojrxbedd jbg vxzkcs. Ujdc qejx R jdteg Cxejdfxq Denxecjxq-cseb-Xevjb cz
geyeuzi j iujb cz drhiuroq cse cjm nzge, dz juu cjmijqexd kzfug pe cxejceg
hzxe ojrxuq jbg iexdzbju cjm xjced nzfug nzhe ofxcsex gzkb.

Ke sjye nfc cjm xjced pq juhzdc 25 iexnebc, qec cse cjm dqdceh xehjrbd
fbojrx jbg urhrcd zfx izcebcrju ozx vxzkcs. Emnufdrzbd jbg emehicrzbd njfde
drhrujx rbnzhed cz pe cjmeg jc grooexebc ueyeud. Uzk-rbnzhe ojhrured ojne
dceei cjm pjxxrexd csjc hjte sjxg uryed eyeb sjxgex. Cse Cxejdfxq
Geijxchebc sjd ixzgfneg jb emneuuebc xeozxh iujb, kszde ixrbnriued kruu
vfrge cse orbju ixzizdju csjc ke kruu jdt qzf cz ebjnc.

Zbe csrbv csjc cjm xeozxh kruu bzc pe rd j cjm rbnxejde rb grdvfrde. Ke
kruu bzc wezijxgrle cse hzxcvjve rbcexedc gegfncrzb csjc ojhrured beeg. Ke
kruu xegfne iexdzbju cjm xjced jd uzk jd izddrpue pq xehzyrbv hjbq cjm
ixeoexebned. Ke kruu ixzizde j czi xjce zo bz hzxe csjb 35 iexnebc, jbg
izddrpuq uzkex. Jbg ke kruu ixzizde xegfnrbv nzxizxjce xjced, ksrue
hjrbcjrbrbv rbnebcryed ozx njircju ozxhjcrzb.

Cz ebnzfxjve ziizxcfbrcq jbg wzpd xjcsex csjb geiebgebnq jbg keuojxe, ke
kruu ixzizde csjc rbgryrgfjud uryrbv jc zx bejx cse izyexcq urbe pe czcjuuq
emehic oxzh Oegexju rbnzhe cjm. Cz xedczxe ojrxbedd cz ojhrured, ke kruu
ixzizde rbnxejdrbv drvbrornjbcuq cse iexdzbju emehicrzb.

Jbg czbrvsc, R jh rbdcxfncrbv Cxejdfxq Denxecjxq Wjhed Pjtex--R sjye cz vec
fdeg cz djqrbv csjc--cz pevrb kzxtrbv krcs nzbvxeddrzbju jfcszxd jbg
nzhhrcceed ozx prijxcrdjb uevrdujcrzb nzbozxhrbv cz csede ixrbnriued. Ke
kruu njuu fizb cse Jhexrnjb ieziue ozx dfiizxc jbg fizb eyexq hjb jbg kzhjb
rb csrd Nsjhpex. Czvecsex, ke njb ijdd, csrd qejx, j cjm pruu ozx ojrxbedd,
drhiurnrcq, jbg vxzkcs, hjtrbv csrd enzbzhq cse ebvrbe zo zfx gxejhd jbg
Jhexrnj cse rbyedchebc njircju zo cse kzxug. Dz uec fd pevrb.

Cjm drhiurornjcrzb kruu pe j vrjbc dcei czkjxg fbuejdsrbv cse cxehebgzfd
iebc-fi izkex zo zfx enzbzhq. Pfc j denzbg Jhexrnjb xeyzufcrzb hfdc njxxq
cse ixzhrde zo ziizxcfbrcq ozx juu. Rc rd crhe cz urpexjce cse dirxrc zo
ebcexixrde rb cse hzdc grdcxeddeg jxejd zo zfx nzfbcxq.

Csrd vzyexbhebc kruu heec rcd xedizbdrprurcq cz seui cszde rb beeg. Pfc
izurnred csjc rbnxejde geiebgebnq, pxejt fi ojhrured, jbg gedcxzq
deuo-xedienc jxe bzc ixzvxeddrye; cseq'xe xejncrzbjxq. Gedirce zfx dcxrged
rb nryru xrvscd, pujntd, Srdijbrnd, jbg juu hrbzxrcred kruu bzc sjye ofuu
jbg eafju izkex fbcru cseq sjye ofuu enzbzhrn izkex.

Ke sjye xeiejceguq dzfvsc ijddjve zo ebcexixrde lzbed cz seui cszde rb cse
jpjbgzbeg nzxbexd zo zfx ujbg orbg wzpd, uejxb dtruud, jbg pfrug peccex
uryed. Csrd uevrdujcrzb rd dfiizxceg pq j hjwzxrcq zo qzf.

Hx. Diejtex, R tbzk ke jvxee csjc csexe hfdc pe bz ozxvzcceb Jhexrnjbd.
Uec fd iujne bek gxejhd rb j hruurzb sejxcd jbg nxejce j bek vebexjcrzb zo
ebcxeixebefxd pq ijddrbv ebcexixrde lzbed csrd qejx. Jbg, Cri, qzf nzfug
hjte csjc j prxcsgjq ixedebc.

Bzx hfdc ke uzde cse nsjbne cz ijdd zfx qzfcs ehiuzqhebc ziizxcfbrcq kjve
ixzizdju. Ke njb seui ceebjvexd, ksz sjye cse srvsedc fbehiuzqhebc xjce,
orbg dfhhex wzpd, dz cseq njb tbzk cse ixrge zo kzxt jbg sjye nzborgebne rb
cserx ofcfxed.

Ke'uu nzbcrbfe cz dfiizxc cse Wzp Cxjrbrbv Ijxcbexdsri Jnc, ksrns sjd j
bejxuq ckz-csrxgd wzp iujnehebc xjce. Nxegrcd rb egfnjcrzb jbg sejucs njxe
yzfnsexd kruu seui kzxtrbv ojhrured dszi ozx dexyrned csjc cseq beeg.

Zfx jghrbrdcxjcrzb rd juxejgq ebnzfxjvrbv nexcjrb uzk-rbnzhe ifpurn szfdrbv
xedrgebcd cz zkb jbg hjbjve cserx zkb gkeuurbvd. Rc'd crhe csjc juu ifpurn
szfdrbv xedrgebcd sjye csjc ziizxcfbrcq zo zkbexdsri.

Cse Oegexju Vzyexbhebc njb seui nxejce j bek jchzdisexe zo oxeegzh. Pfc
Dcjced jbg uznjurcred, hjbq zo ksrns ebwzq dfxiufded oxzh cse xenzyexq,
hfdc bzc iexhrc cserx cjm jbg xevfujczxq izurnred cz dcjbg jd pjxxrexd cz
vxzkcs.

Uec fd xedzuye csjc ke kruu dczi dixejgrbv geiebgebnq jbg dcjxc dixejgrbv
ziizxcfbrcq; csjc ke kruu dczi dixejgrbv pzbgjve jbg dcjxc dixejgrbv
oxeegzh.

Csexe jxe dzhe ksz djq csjc vxzkcs rbrcrjcryed hfdc jkjrc orbju jncrzb zb
geornrc xegfncrzbd. Keuu, cse pedc kjq cz xegfne geornrcd rd csxzfvs
enzbzhrn vxzkcs. Hzxe pfdrbedded kruu pe dcjxceg, hzxe rbyedchebcd hjge,
hzxe wzpd nxejceg, jbg hzxe ieziue kruu pe zb ijqxzuud ijqrbv cjmed. Cse
pedc kjq cz xegfne vzyexbhebc diebgrbv rd cz xegfne cse beeg ozx diebgrbv
pq rbnxejdrbv ixzdiexrcq. Ejns jggeg iexnebcjve izrbc iex qejx zo xeju VBI
vxzkcs kruu uejg cz nfhfujcrye xegfncrzb rb geornrcd zo bejxuq $200 pruurzb
zyex 5 qejxd.

Cz hzye dcejgruq czkjxg j pjujbneg pfgvec, ke hfdc judz urvsceb
vzyexbhebc'd nujrh zb zfx czcju enzbzhq. Ke kruu bzc gz csrd pq xjrdrbv
cjmed. Ke hfdc hjte dfxe csjc zfx enzbzhq vxzkd ojdcex csjb cse vxzkcs rb
diebgrbv pq cse Oegexju Vzyexbhebc. Rb zfx ordnju qejx 1986 pfgvec, zyexjuu
vzyexbhebc ixzvxjh diebgrbv kruu pe oxzleb jc cse nfxxebc ueyeu. Rc hfdc
bzc pe zbe grhe srvsex csjb ordnju qejx 1985, jbg csxee izrbcd jxe teq.

Orxdc, cse dznrju djoecq bec ozx cse eugexuq, cse beegq, cse grdjpueg, jbg
fbehiuzqeg kruu pe ueoc rbcjnc. Vxzkcs zo zfx hjwzx sejucs njxe ixzvxjhd,
Hegrnjxe jbg Hegrnjrg, kruu pe duzkeg, pfc ixzcencrzbd ozx cse eugexuq jbg
beegq kruu pe ixedexyeg.

Denzbg, ke hfdc bzc xeujm zfx eoozxcd cz xedczxe hrurcjxq dcxebvcs wfdc jd
ke bejx zfx vzju zo j ofuuq eafriieg, cxjrbeg, jbg xejgq ixzoeddrzbju
nzxid. Bjcrzbju denfxrcq rd vzyexbhebc'd orxdc xedizbdrprurcq; dz rb ijdc
qejxd geoebde diebgrbv czzt jpzfc sjuo cse Oegexju pfgvec. Czgjq rc cjted
uedd csjb j csrxg. Ke'ye juxejgq xegfneg zfx iujbbeg geoebde emiebgrcfxed
pq bejxuq j sfbgxeg pruurzb gzuujxd zyex cse ijdc 4 qejxd jbg xegfneg
ixzwenceg diebgrbv jvjrb csrd qejx.

Qzf tbzk, ke zbuq sjye j hrurcjxq-rbgfdcxrju nzhiuem fbcru j crhe zo
gjbvex, jbg cseb rc penzhed cse jxdebju zo gehznxjnq. Diebgrbv ozx geoebde
rd rbyedcrbv rb csrbvd csjc jxe ixrneuedd--iejne jbg oxeegzh.

Csrxg, ke hfdc xegfne zx eurhrbjce nzdcuq vzyexbhebc dfpdrgred. Ozx
emjhiue, gexevfujcrzb zo cse jrxurbe rbgfdcxq sjd ueg cz nsejiex jrxojxed,
pfc zb Jhcxjt cjmijqexd ijq jpzfc $35 iex ijddebvex eyexq crhe jb Jhcxjt
cxjrb uejyed cse dcjcrzb, Rc'd crhe ke ebgeg csrd sfve Oegexju dfpdrgq.

Zfx ojxh ixzvxjh nzdcd sjye afjgxfiueg rb xenebc qejxd. Qec R tbzk oxzh
yrdrcrbv ojxhexd, hjbq rb vxejc orbjbnrju grdcxedd, csjc ke beeg jb zxgexuq
cxjbdrcrzb cz j hjxtec-zxrebceg ojxh enzbzhq. Ke njb seui ojxhexd pedc bzc
pq emijbgrbv Oegexju ijqhebcd pfc pq hjtrbv ofbgjhebcju xeozxhd, teeirbv
rbcexedc xjced sejgrbv gzkb, jbg tbzntrbv gzkb ozxervb cxjge pjxxrexd cz
Jhexrnjb ojxh emizxcd.

Ke'xe hzyrbv jsejg krcs Vxjne nzhhrddrzb xeozxhd cz eurhrbjce kjdce jbg
rhixzye vzyexbhebc'd hjbjvehebc ixjncrned. Rb cse uzbv xfb, ke hfdc ixzcenc
cse cjmijqexd oxzh vzyexbhebc. Jbg R jdt jvjrb csjc qzf ijdd, jd 32 Dcjced
sjye bzk njuueg ozx, jb jhebghebc hjbgjcrbv cse Oegexju Vzyexbhebc diebg bz
hzxe csjb rc cjted rb. Jbg R jdt ozx cse jfcszxrcq, fdeg xedizbdrpuq pq 43
Vzyexbzxd, cz yecz rbgryrgfju rcehd rb jiixzixrjcrzb pruud. Debjczx
Hjccrbvuq sjd rbcxzgfneg j pruu iexhrccrbv j 2-qejx cxrju xfb zo cse
urbe-rceh yecz. R szie qzf'uu ijdd jbg debg csjc uevrdujcrzb cz hq gedt.

Bejxuq 50 qejxd zo vzyexbhebc uryrbv peqzbg rcd hejbd sjd pxzfvsc fd cz j
crhe zo xentzbrbv. Zfxd rd pfc j hzhebc rb srdczxq. Pfc zbe hzhebc zo
nzfxjve, rgejurdh, jbg prijxcrdjb fbrcq njb nsjbve Jhexrnjb srdczxq
ozxeyex.

Dzfbg hzbecjxq izurnq rd teq cz uzbv-xfbbrbv enzbzhrn dcxebvcs jbg
dcjprurcq. Ke kruu nzbcrbfe cz nzziexjce krcs cse Oegexju Xedexye Pzjxg,
deetrbv j dcejgq izurnq csjc ebdfxed ixrne dcjprurcq krcszfc teeirbv
rbcexedc xjced jxcrornrjuuq srvs zx beeguedduq szugrbv gzkb vxzkcs.

Xegfnrbv fbbeegeg xeg cjie jbg xevfujcrzbd, jbg gexevfujcrbv cse ebexvq,
cxjbdizxcjcrzb, jbg orbjbnrju rbgfdcxred sjye fbuejdseg bek nzhiecrcrzb,
vryrbv nzbdfhexd hzxe nszrned, peccex dexyrned, jbg uzkex ixrned. Rb wfdc
zbe dec zo vxjbc ixzvxjhd ke sjye xegfneg 905 ijved zo xevfujcrzbd cz 31.
Ke deet cz ofuuq gexevfujce bjcfxju vjd cz pxrbv zb bek dfiiured jbg pxrbv
fd nuzdex cz ebexvq rbgeiebgebne. Nzbdrdcebc krcs djoecq dcjbgjxgd, ke kruu
nzbcrbfe xehzyrbv xedcxjrbcd zb cse pfd jbg xjruxzjg rbgfdcxred, ke kruu
dzzb ebg fi uevrdujcrzb--zx debg fi uevrdujcrzb, R dszfug djq--cz xecfxb
Nzbxjru cz cse ixryjce denczx ksexe rc peuzbvd, jbg ke kruu dfiizxc ofxcsex
gexevfujcrzb zo cse cxfntrbv rbgfdcxq.

Eyexq gzuujx cse Oegexju Vzyexbhebc gzed bzc cjte oxzh fd, eyexq genrdrzb
rc gzed bzc hjte ozx fd kruu hjte zfx enzbzhq dcxzbvex, zfx uryed hzxe
jpfbgjbc, zfx ofcfxe hzxe oxee.

Zfx denzbg Jhexrnjb xeyzufcrzb kruu ifds zb cz bek izddrprurcred bzc zbuq
zb Ejxcs pfc rb cse bemc oxzbcrex zo dijne. Gedirce pfgvec xedcxjrbcd, ke
kruu deet xenzxg ofbgrbv ozx xedejxns jbg geyeuzihebc.

Ke'ye deeb cse dfnnedd zo cse dijne dsfccue. Bzk ke'xe vzrbv cz geyeuzi j
iexhjbebcuq hjbbeg dijne dcjcrzb jbg bek ziizxcfbrcred ozx oxee ebcexixrde,
penjfde rb cse bemc genjge Jhexrnjbd jbg zfx oxrebgd jxzfbg cse kzxug kruu
pe uryrbv jbg kzxtrbv czvecsex rb dijne.

Rb cse lexz vxjyrcq zo dijne, ke nzfug hjbfojncfxe rb 30 gjqd uroedjyrbv
hegrnrbed rc kzfug cjte 30 qejxd cz hjte zb Ejxcs. Ke njb hjte nxqdcjud zo
emneicrzbju ifxrcq cz ixzgfne dfiex nzhifcexd, nxejcrbv wzpd, censbzuzvred,
jbg hegrnju pxejtcsxzfvsd peqzbg jbqcsrbv ke eyex gxejheg izddrpue.

Jd ke gz juu csrd, ke'uu nzbcrbfe cz ixzcenc zfx bjcfxju xedzfxned. Ke kruu
deet xejfcszxrljcrzb jbg emijbgeg ofbgrbv ozx cse Dfiexofbg ixzvxjh cz
nzbcrbfe nuejbrbv fi sjljxgzfd kjdce drced ksrns csxejceb sfhjb sejucs jbg
cse ebyrxzbhebc.

Bzk, csexe'd jbzcsex vxejc sexrcjve cz diejt zo csrd eyebrbv. Zo juu cse
nsjbved csjc sjye dkeic Jhexrnj cse ijdc 4 qejxd, bzbe pxrbvd vxejcex
ixzhrde csjb zfx xegrdnzyexq zo cse yjufed zo ojrcs, oxeegzh, ojhruq, kzxt,
jbg bervspzxszzg.

Ke dee drvbd zo xebekju rb rbnxejdeg jccebgjbne rb iujned zo kzxdsri;
xebekeg zicrhrdh jbg ojrcs rb zfx ofcfxe; uzye zo nzfbcxq xegrdnzyexeg pq
zfx qzfbv, ksz jxe uejgrbv cse kjq. Ke'ye xegrdnzyexeg csjc kzxt rd vzzg rb
jbg zo rcdeuo, csjc rc ebbzpued fd cz nxejce jbg nzbcxrpfce bz hjccex szk
deehrbvuq sfhpue zfx wzpd. Ke'ye deeb j izkexofu bek nfxxebc oxzh jb zug
jbg szbzxjpue cxjgrcrzb--Jhexrnjb vebexzdrcq.

Oxzh cszfdjbgd jbdkexrbv Iejne Nzxid jiiejud cz seui pzzdc ozzg ixzgfncrzb
rb Joxrnj, cz hruurzbd yzufbceexrbv crhe, nzxizxjcrzbd jgzicrbv dnszzud,
jbg nzhhfbrcred ifuurbv czvecsex cz seui cse beegredc jhzbv fd jc szhe, ke
sjye xeozfbg zfx yjufed. Ixryjce denczx rbrcrjcryed jxe nxfnrju cz zfx
ofcfxe.

R csjbt cse Nzbvxedd ozx ijddrbv eafju jnnedd uevrdujcrzb vryrbv xeurvrzfd
vxzfid cse djhe xrvsc cz fde nujddxzzhd jocex dnszzu csjc zcsex vxzfid
ebwzq. Pfc bz nrcrleb beeg cxehpue, bzx cse kzxug dsfggex, ro j nsrug
dcjbgd rb j nujddxzzh jbg pxejcsed j ixjqex. Ke jdt qzf jvjrb, vrye
nsrugxeb pjnt j xrvsc cseq sjg ozx j nebcfxq jbg j sjuo zx hzxe rb csrd
nzfbcxq.

Cse afedcrzb zo jpzxcrzb vxrid zfx bjcrzb. Jpzxcrzb rd ercsex cse cjtrbv zo
j sfhjb uroe zx rc rdb'c. Jbg ro rc rd--jbg hegrnju censbzuzvq rd
rbnxejdrbvuq dszkrbv rc rd--rc hfdc pe dcziieg. Rc rd j cexxrpue rxzbq csjc
ksrue dzhe cfxb cz jpzxcrzb, dz hjbq zcsexd ksz njbbzc penzhe ijxebcd nxq
zfc ozx nsrugxeb cz jgzic. Ke sjye xzzh ozx csede nsrugxeb. Ke njb oruu cse
nxjgued zo cszde ksz kjbc j nsrug cz uzye. Jbg czbrvsc R jdt qzf rb cse
Nzbvxedd cz hzye csrd qejx zb uevrdujcrzb cz ixzcenc cse fbpzxb.

Rb cse jxej zo egfnjcrzb, ke'xe xecfxbrbv cz emneuuebne, jbg jvjrb, cse
sexzed jxe zfx ieziue, bzc vzyexbhebc. Ke'xe dcxeddrbv pjdrnd zo
grdnriurbe, xrvzxzfd cedcrbv, jbg szhekzxt, ksrue seuirbv nsrugxeb penzhe
nzhifcex-dhjxc jd keuu. Ozx 20 qejxd dnszujdcrn jicrcfge cedc dnzxed zo zfx
srvs dnszzu dcfgebcd kebc gzkb, pfc bzk cseq sjye vzbe fi 2 zo cse ujdc 3
qejxd. Ke hfdc vz ozxkjxg rb zfx nzhhrchebc cz cse bek pjdrnd, vryrbv
ijxebcd vxejcex jfcszxrcq jbg hjtrbv dfxe vzzg cejnsexd jxe xekjxgeg ozx
sjxg kzxt jbg jnsreyehebc csxzfvs hexrc ijq.

Zo juu cse nsjbved rb cse ijdc 20 qejxd, bzbe sjd hzxe csxejcebeg zfx debde
zo bjcrzbju keuu-perbv csjb cse emiuzdrzb zo yrzuebc nxrhe. Zbe gzed bzc
sjye cz pe jccjnteg cz pe j yrncrh. Cse kzhjb ksz hfdc xfb cz sex njx jocex
dsziirbv jc brvsc rd j yrncrh. Cse nzfiue gxjirbv cserx gzzx krcs uzntd jbg
nsjrbd jxe yrncrhd; jd rd cse crxeg, genebc nuejbrbv kzhjb ksz njb'c xrge j
dfpkjq szhe krcszfc perbv joxjrg.

Ke gz bzc deet cz yrzujce cse xrvscd zo geoebgjbcd. Pfc dszfugb'c ke oeeu
hzxe nzhijddrzb ozx cse yrncrhd zo nxrhe csjb ozx cszde ksz nzhhrc nxrhe?
Ozx cse orxdc crhe rb 20 qejxd, cse nxrhe rbgem sjd ojuueb 2 qejxd rb j
xzk. Ke'ye nzbyrnceg zyex 7,400 gxfv zooebgexd jbg ifc cseh, jd keuu jd
uejgexd zo zxvjbrleg nxrhe, pesrbg pjxd rb xenzxg bfhpexd.

Pfc ke hfdc gz hzxe. R fxve cse Szfde cz ozuuzk cse Debjce jbg ebjnc
ixzizdjud iexhrccrbv fde zo juu xeurjpue eyrgebne csjc izurne zoornexd
jnafrxe rb vzzg ojrcs. Csede ixzizdjud kzfug judz xeozxh cse sjpejd nzxifd
ujkd jbg juuzk, rb teeirbv krcs cse kruu zo cse zyexkseuhrbv hjwzxrcq zo
Jhexrnjbd, cse fde zo cse gejcs iebjucq ksexe beneddjxq.

Csexe njb pe bz enzbzhrn xeyryju rb vsecczd kseb cse hzdc yrzuebc jhzbv fd
jxe juuzkeg cz xzjh oxee. Rc'd crhe ke xedczxeg gzhedcrn cxjbafrurcq. Jbg
ke hejb cz gz wfdc csjc.

Wfdc jd ke'xe izdrcrzbeg jd beyex peozxe cz denfxe wfdcrne rb zfx enzbzhq,
ke'xe izrdeg jd beyex peozxe cz nxejce j djoex, oxeex, hzxe iejneofu kzxug.
Zfx juurjbned jxe dcxzbvex csjb eyex. Zfx enzbzhq rd dcxzbvex csjb eyex. Ke
sjye xedfheg zfx srdczxrn xzue jd j uejgex zo cse oxee kzxug. Jbg juu zo
csede czvecsex jxe j vxejc ozxne ozx iejne.

Drbne 1981 ke'ye peeb nzhhrcceg cz deetrbv ojrx jbg yexrorjpue jxhd
jvxeehebcd csjc kzfug uzkex cse xrdt zo kjx jbg xegfne cse drle zo bfnuejx
jxdebjud. Bzk zfx gecexhrbjcrzb cz hjrbcjrb j dcxzbv geoebde sjd rboufebneg
cse Dzyrec Fbrzb cz xecfxb cz cse pjxvjrbrbv cjpue. Zfx bevzcrjczxd hfdc pe
jpue cz vz cz csjc cjpue krcs cse fbrceg dfiizxc zo cse Jhexrnjb ieziue.
Juu zo fd sjye bz vxejcex gxejh csjb cz dee cse gjq kseb bfnuejx kejizbd
jxe pjbbeg oxzh csrd Ejxcs ozxeyex.

Ejns Hehpex zo cse Nzbvxedd sjd j xzue cz iujq rb hzgexbrlrbv zfx geoebded,
csfd dfiizxcrbv zfx nsjbned ozx j hejbrbvofu jxhd jvxeehebc. Qzfx yzce csrd
dixrbv zb cse Iejneteeiex hrddrue kruu pe j nxrcrnju cedc zo zfx xedzuye cz
hjrbcjrb cse dcxebvcs ke beeg jbg hzye czkjxg hfcfju jbg yexrorjpue jxhd
xegfncrzbd.

Ozx cse ijdc 20 qejxd ke'ye peureyeg csjc bz kjx kruu pe ujfbnseg jd uzbv
jd ejns drge tbzkd rc njb xecjurjce krcs j gejguq nzfbcexdcxrte. Keuu, R
peureye csexe'd j peccex kjq zo eurhrbjcrbv cse csxejc zo bfnuejx kjx. Rc
rd j Dcxjcevrn Geoebde Rbrcrjcrye jrheg fucrhjceuq jc orbgrbv j bzbbfnuejx
geoebde jvjrbdc pjuurdcrn hrddrued. Rc'd cse hzdc szieofu izddrprurcq zo
cse bfnuejx jve. Pfc rc'd bzc yexq keuu fbgexdczzg.

Dzhe djq rc kruu pxrbv kjx cz cse sejyebd, pfc rcd ifxizde rd cz gecex kjx
rb cse sejyebd jbg zb Ejxcs. Bzk, dzhe djq cse xedejxns kzfug pe emiebdrye.
Iexsjid, pfc rc nzfug djye hruurzbd zo uryed, rbgeeg sfhjbrcq rcdeuo. Jbg
dzhe djq ro ke pfrug dfns j dqdceh, cse Dzyrecd kruu pfrug j geoebde dqdceh
zo cserx zkb. Keuu, cseq juxejgq sjye dcxjcevrn geoebded csjc dfxijdd zfxd;
j nryru geoebde dqdceh, ksexe ke sjye juhzdc bzbe; jbg j xedejxns ixzvxjh
nzyexrbv xzfvsuq cse djhe jxejd zo censbzuzvq csjc ke'xe bzk emiuzxrbv. Jbg
orbjuuq dzhe djq cse xedejxns kruu cjte j uzbv crhe. Keuu, cse jbdkex cz
csjc rd: Uec'd vec dcjxceg.

Sjxxq Cxfhjb zbne djrg csjc, fucrhjceuq, zfx denfxrcq jbg cse kzxug'd szied
ozx iejne jbg sfhjb ixzvxedd "ure bzc rb hejdfxed zo geoebde zx rb cse
nzbcxzu zo kejizbd, pfc rb cse vxzkcs jbg emijbdrzb zo oxeegzh jbg
deuo-vzyexbhebc."

Jbg czbrvsc, ke genujxe jbek cz zfx oeuuzk nrcrlebd zo cse kzxug: Oxeegzh
rd bzc cse dzue ixexzvjcrye zo j nszdeb oek; rc rd cse fbryexdju xrvsc zo
juu Vzg'd nsrugxeb. Uzzt cz ksexe iejne jbg ixzdiexrcq ouzfxrds czgjq. Rc
rd rb szhed csjc oxeegzh pfruc. Yrnczxred jvjrbdc izyexcq jxe vxejcedc jbg
iejne hzdc denfxe ksexe ieziue urye pq ujkd csjc ebdfxe oxee ixedd, oxee
dieens, jbg oxeegzh cz kzxdsri, yzce, jbg nxejce kejucs.

Zfx hrddrzb rd cz bzfxrds jbg geoebg oxeegzh jbg gehznxjnq, jbg cz
nzhhfbrnjce csede rgejud eyexqksexe ke njb. Jhexrnj'd enzbzhrn dfnnedd rd
oxeegzh'd dfnnedd; rc njb pe xeiejceg j sfbgxeg crhed rb j sfbgxeg
grooexebc bjcrzbd. Hjbq nzfbcxred rb ejdc Jdrj jbg cse Ijnrorn sjye oek
xedzfxned zcsex csjb cse ebcexixrde zo cserx zkb ieziue. Pfc csxzfvs uzk
cjm xjced jbg oxee hjxtecd cseq'ye dzjxeg jsejg zo nebcxjurleg enzbzhred.
Jbg bzk Nsrbj rd ziebrbv fi rcd enzbzhq cz heec rcd beegd.

Ke beeg j dcxzbvex jbg drhiuex jiixzjns cz cse ixznedd zo hjtrbv jbg
rhiuehebcrbv cxjge izurnq, jbg ke'uu pe dcfgqrbv izcebcrju nsjbved rb csjc
ixznedd rb cse bemc oek keetd. Ke'ye deeb cse pebeorcd zo oxee cxjge jbg
uryeg csxzfvs cse grdjdcexd zo ixzcencrzbrdh. Czbrvsc R jdt juu zfx cxjgrbv
ijxcbexd, geyeuzieg jbg geyeuzirbv jurte, cz wzrb fd rb j bek xzfbg zo
cxjge bevzcrjcrzbd cz emijbg cxjge jbg nzhiecrcrzb jbg dcxebvcseb cse
vuzpju enzbzhq--jbg cz pevrb rc rb csrd bemc qejx.

Csexe jxe hzxe csjb 3 pruurzb sfhjb perbvd uryrbv rb Csrxg Kzxug nzfbcxred
krcs jb jyexjve iex njircj rbnzhe zo $650 j qejx. Hjbq jxe yrncrhd zo
grncjczxdsrid csjc rhizyexrdseg cseh krcs cjmjcrzb jbg nzxxficrzb. Uec fd
jdt zfx juured cz wzrb fd rb j ixjncrnju ixzvxjh zo cxjge jbg jddrdcjbne
csjc ozdcexd enzbzhrn geyeuzihebc csxzfvs iexdzbju rbnebcryed cz seui csede
ieziue nurhp oxzh izyexcq zb cserx zkb.

Ke njbbzc iujq rbbznebcd jpxzjg rb j kzxug csjc'd bzc rbbznebc; bzx njb ke
pe ijddrye kseb oxeegzh rd fbgex dreve. Krcszfc xedzfxned, griuzhjnq njbbzc
dfnneeg. Zfx denfxrcq jddrdcjbne ixzvxjhd seui oxrebguq vzyexbhebcd geoebg
csehdeuyed jbg vrye cseh nzborgebne cz kzxt ozx iejne. Jbg R szie csjc qzf
rb cse Nzbvxedd kruu fbgexdcjbg csjc, gzuujx ozx gzuujx, denfxrcq
jddrdcjbne nzbcxrpfced jd hfns cz vuzpju denfxrcq jd zfx zkb geoebde
pfgvec.

Ke hfdc dcjbg pq juu zfx gehznxjcrn juured. Jbg ke hfdc bzc pxejt ojrcs
krcs cszde ksz jxe xrdtrbv cserx uryed--zb eyexq nzbcrbebc, oxzh
Jovsjbrdcjb cz Brnjxjvfj--cz geoq Dzyrec-dfiizxceg jvvxeddrzb jbg denfxe
xrvscd ksrns sjye peeb zfxd oxzh prxcs.

Cse Djbgrbrdcj grncjczxdsri zo Brnjxjvfj, krcs ofuu Nfpjb-Dzyrec puzn
dfiizxc, bzc zbuq iexdenfced rcd ieziue, cse nsfxns, jbg gebred j oxee
ixedd, pfc jxhd jbg ixzyrged pjded ozx Nzhhfbrdc cexxzxrdcd jccjntrbv
bervspzxrbv dcjced. Dfiizxc ozx oxeegzh orvscexd rd deuo-geoebde jbg
czcjuuq nzbdrdcebc krcs cse ZJD jbg F.B. Nsjxcexd. Rc rd eddebcrju csjc cse
Nzbvxedd nzbcrbfe juu ojnecd zo zfx jddrdcjbne cz Nebcxju Jhexrnj. R kjbc
cz kzxt krcs qzf cz dfiizxc cse gehznxjcrn ozxned kszde dcxfvvue rd creg cz
zfx zkb denfxrcq.

Jbg czbrvsc, R'ye dizteb zo vxejc iujbd jbg vxejc gxejhd. Cseq'xe gxejhd ke
njb hjte nzhe cxfe. Ckz sfbgxeg qejxd zo Jhexrnjb srdczxq dszfug sjye
cjfvsc fd csjc bzcsrbv rd rhizddrpue.

Ceb qejxd jvz j qzfbv vrxu ueoc Yrecbjh krcs sex ojhruq, ijxc zo cse emzgfd
csjc ozuuzkeg cse ojuu zo Djrvzb. Cseq njhe cz cse Fbrceg Dcjced krcs bz
izddeddrzbd jbg bzc tbzkrbv j kzxg zo Ebvurds. Ceb qejxd jvz--cse qzfbv
vrxu dcfgreg sjxg, uejxbeg Ebvurds, jbg orbrdseg srvs dnszzu rb cse czi zo
sex nujdd. Jbg csrd Hjq, Hjq 22g cz pe emjnc, rd j prv gjce zb sex
njuebgjx. Wfdc 10 qejxd oxzh cse crhe dse ueoc Yrecbjh, dse kruu vxjgfjce
oxzh cse Fbrceg Dcjced Hrurcjxq Jnjgehq jc Kedc Izrbc. R cszfvsc qzf hrvsc
urte cz heec jb Jhexrnjb sexz bjheg Wejb Bvfqeb.

Bzk, csexe'd dzhezbe eude sexe czbrvsc, pzxb 79 qejxd jvz. Dse uryed rb cse
rbbex nrcq, ksexe dse njxed ozx rbojbcd pzxb zo hzcsexd ksz jxe sexzrb
jggrncd. Cse nsrugxeb, pzxb rb krcsgxjkju, jxe dzhecrhed eyeb gxziieg zb
sex gzzxdcei. Dse seuid cseh krcs uzye. Vz cz sex szfde dzhe brvsc, jbg
hjqpe qzf'uu dee sex druszfecce jvjrbdc cse krbgzk jd dse kjutd cse ouzzx
cjutrbv dzocuq, dzzcsrbv j nsrug rb sex jxhd--Hzcsex Sjue zo Sjxueh, jbg
dse, czz, rd jb Jhexrnjb sexz.

Wejb, Hzcsex Sjue, qzfx uryed ceuu fd csjc cse zugedc Jhexrnjb djqrbv rd
bek jvjrb: Jbqcsrbv rd izddrpue rb Jhexrnj ro ke sjye cse ojrcs, cse kruu,
jbg cse sejxc. Srdczxq rd jdtrbv fd zbne jvjrb cz pe j ozxne ozx vzzg rb
cse kzxug. Uec fd pevrb rb fbrcq, krcs wfdcrne, jbg uzye.

Csjbt qzf, jbg Vzg puedd qzf.

BZCE: Cse Ixedrgebc dizte jc 9:05 i.h. rb cse Szfde Nsjhpex zo cse Njirczu.
Se kjd rbcxzgfneg pq Cszhjd I. Z'Beruu, Wx., Diejtex zo cse Szfde zo
Xeixedebcjcryed. Cse jggxedd kjd pxzjgnjdc urye zb bjcrzbkrge xjgrz
jbg ceueyrdrzb.