Mi. Whpljpi, Mi. Hipwvnpbg, lbn nvwgvbkyvwdpn Mpmepiw co gdp Dcywp lbn
Wpblgp: Xdpb xp oviwg mpg dpip 7 fpliw lkc--mlbf co yw oci gdp oviwg
gvmp--vg xlw xvgd gdp dchp co epkvbbvbk wcmpgdvbk bpx oci Lmpivsl. Xp mppg
dpip gcbvkdg vb gdvw dvwgcivs Sdlmepi gc scbgvbyp gdlg xcij. Vo lbfcbp
pthpsgw zywg l hicyn ipsvglgvcb co gdp lsscmhuvwdmpbgw co mf
lnmvbvwgilgvcb, V wlf upg'w uplqp gdlg gc dvwgcif; xp'ip bcg ovbvwdpn fpg.
Wc, mf mpwwlkp gc fcy gcbvkdg vw hyg cb fcyi xcij wdcpw; xp'ip wgvuu cb gdp
zce.

Dvwgcif ipscinw gdp hcxpi co gdp vnplw gdlg eicykdg yw dpip gdcwp 7 fpliw
lkc--vnplw uvjp gdp vbnvqvnylu'w ivkdg gc iplsd lw oli lbn lw dvkd lw dvw ci
dpi glupbgw xvuu hpimvg; gdp oipp mlijpg lw lb pbkvbp co pscbcmvs hickipww.
Lbn lw lb lbsvpbg Sdvbpwp hdvucwchdpi, Ulc-gry, wlvn: "Kcqpib l kiplg
blgvcb lw fcy xcyun sccj l wmluu ovwd; nc bcg cqpinc vg." Xpuu, gdpwp vnplw
xpip hlig co l ulikpi bcgvcb, l qvwvcb, vo fcy xvuu, co Lmpivsl
dpiwpuo--lb Lmpivsl bcg cbuf ivsd vb chhcigybvgf oci gdp vbnvqvnylu eyg lb
Lmpivsl, gcc, co wgicbk olmvuvpw lbn qveilbg bpvkdecidccnw; lb Lmpivsl
xdcwp nvqpikpbg eyg dlimcbvrvbk scmmybvgvpw xpip l ipoupsgvcb co l npphpi
scmmybvgf co qluypw: gdp qluyp co xcij, co olmvuf, co ipuvkvcb, lbn co gdp
ucqp co oippncm gdlg Kcn hulspw vb plsd co yw lbn xdcwp npopbwp Dp dlw
pbgiywgpn vb l whpsvlu xlf gc gdvw blgvcb.

Luu co gdvw xlw mlnp hcwwveup ef lb vnpl V whcjp co xdpb Mi. Kcielsdpq xlw
dpip--gdp epuvpo gdlg gdp mcwg ptsvgvbk ipqcuygvcb pqpi jbcxb gc dymlbjvbn
epklb xvgd gdipp wvmhup xcinw: "Xp gdp Hpchup," gdp ipqcuygvcblif bcgvcb
gdlg gdp hpchup kilbg kcqpibmpbg vgw ivkdgw, lbn bcg gdp cgdpi xlf licybn.
Lbn gdpip'w cbp upwwcb gdlg dlw scmp dcmp hcxpioyuuf gc mp, xdvsd V xcyun
coopi gc fcy bcx. Zywg lw gdcwp xdc siplgpn gdvw Iphyeuvs hupnkpn gc plsd
cgdpi gdpvi uvqpw, gdpvi ocigybpw, lbn gdpvi wlsipn dcbci, wc, gcc,
Lmpivsl'w uplnpiw gcnlf mywg hupnkp gc plsd cgdpi gdlg xp xvuu jpph
ocipmcwg vb cyi dpligw lbn mvbnw bcg xdlg vw epwg oci cyiwpuqpw ci oci cyi
hligf eyg xdlg vw epwg oci Lmpivsl.

Vb gdp whvivg co Zpoopiwcb, upg yw loovim gdlg vb gdvw Sdlmepi gcbvkdg
gdpip lip bc Iphyeuvslbw, bc Npmcsilgw--zywg Lmpivslbw. Fpw, xp xvuu dlqp
cyi nvoopipbspw, eyg upg yw luxlfw ipmpmepi xdlg ybvgpw yw oli cygxpvkdw
xdlgpqpi nvqvnpw yw. Gdcwp xdc wpbg yw dpip gc wpiqp gdpm--gdp mvuuvcbw co
Lmpivslbw xlgsdvbk lbn uvwgpbvbk gcbvkdg--pthpsg gdvw co yw. Upg'w hicqp gc
gdpm lbn gc cyiwpuqpw gdlg npmcsilsf xcijw pqpb vb lb pupsgvcb fpli. Xp'qp
ncbp gdvw epocip. Lbn lw xp dlqp xcijpn gckpgdpi gc eivbk ncxb whpbnvbk,
glt ilgpw, lbn vboulgvcb, pmhucfmpbg dlw suvmepn gc ipscin dpvkdgw; Lmpivsl
dlw siplgpn mcip zcew lbn epggpi, dvkdpi hlfvbk zcew; olmvuf vbscmp dlw
ivwpb oci 4 wgilvkdg fpliw, lbn Lmpivsl'w hcci suvmepn cyg co hcqpigf lg
gdp olwgpwg ilgp vb mcip gdlb 10 fpliw.

Cyi ipscin vw bcg zywg gdp ucbkpwg hplspgvmp pthlbwvcb vb dvwgcif eyg lb
pscbcmvs lbn wcsvlu ipqcuygvcb co dchp elwpn cb xcij, vbspbgvqpw, kicxgd,
lbn chhcigybvgf; l ipqcuygvcb co scmhlwwvcb gdlg upn gc hivqlgp wpsgci
vbvgvlgvqpw lbn l 77-hpispbg vbsiplwp vb sdlivgleup kvqvbk; l ipqcuygvcb
gdlg lg l sivgvslu mcmpbg vb xciun dvwgcif ipsulvmpn lbn ipwgcipn gdp
Lmpivslb niplm.

Vb vbgpiblgvcblu ipulgvcbw, gcc, gdpip'w cbuf cbp npwsivhgvcb oci xdlg,
gckpgdpi, xp dlqp lsdvpqpn: l scmhupgp gyiblecyg, l ipqcuygvcb. Wpqpb fpliw
lkc, Lmpivsl xlw xplj, lbn oippncm pqpifxdpip xlw ybnpi wvpkp. Gcnlf
Lmpivsl vw wgicbk, lbn npmcsilsf vw pqpifxdpip cb gdp mcqp. Oicm Spbgilu
Lmpivsl gc Plwg Lwvl, vnplw uvjp oipp mlijpgw lbn npmcsilgvs ipocimw lbn
dymlb ivkdgw lip gljvbk dcun. Xp'qp iphulspn "Eulmp Lmpivsl" xvgd "Uccj yh
gc Lmpivsl." Xp'qp ipeyvug cyi npopbwpw. Lbn co luu cyi lsscmhuvwdmpbgw,
bcbp slb kvqp yw mcip wlgvwolsgvcb gdlb jbcxvbk gdlg cyi fcybk hpchup lip
lklvb hicyn gc xpli cyi scybgif'w ybvocim.

Lbn vb l opx mcmpbgw, V'm kcvbk gc gluj lecyg gdipp npqpuchmpbgw--limw
ipnysgvcb, gdp Wgilgpkvs Npopbwp Vbvgvlgvqp, lbn gdp kucelu npmcsilgvs
ipqcuygvcb--gdlg, xdpb gljpb gckpgdpi, coopi l sdlbsp bcbp co yw xcyun dlqp
nlipn vmlkvbp 7 fpliw lkc, l sdlbsp gc ivn gdp xciun co gdp gxc kiplg
bvkdgmlipw co gdp hcwgxli pil. V whplj co gdp wgliguvbk dchp co kvqvbk cyi
sdvunipb l oygyip oipp co ecgd gcgluvglivlbvwm lbn bysupli gpiici.

Gcbvkdg, gdpb, xp'ip wgicbk, hicwhpicyw, lg hplsp, lbn xp lip oipp. Gdvw vw
gdp wglgp co cyi Ybvcb. Lbn vo xp xvuu xcij gckpgdpi gdvw fpli, V epuvpqp
xp slb kvqp l oygyip Hipwvnpbg lbn l oygyip Scbkipww gdp sdlbsp gc mljp
gdlg hicwhpivgf, gdlg hplsp, gdlg oippncm bcg zywg gdp wglgp co cyi Ybvcb
eyg gdp wglgp co cyi xciun.

Gcxlin gdvw pbn, xp dlqp ocyi elwvs cezpsgvqpw gcbvkdg. Oviwg, wgphw xp slb
gljp gdvw fpli gc jpph cyi pscbcmf wgicbk lbn kicxvbk, gc kvqp cyi sdvunipb
l oygyip co ucx vboulgvcb lbn oyuu pmhucfmpbg. Wpscbn, upg'w sdpsj cyi
hickipww vb lgglsjvbk wcsvlu hiceupmw, xdpip vmhciglbg klvbw dlqp eppb
mlnp, eyg xdvsd wgvuu bppn sivgvslu lggpbgvcb. V mplb wsdccuw gdlg xcij,
pscbcmvs vbnphpbnpbsp oci gdp hcci, ipwgcivbk ipwhpsg oci olmvuf uvop lbn
olmvuf qluypw. Cyi gdvin cezpsgvqp gcbvkdg vw kucelu: scbgvbyvbk gdp
ptsvgvbk pscbcmvs lbn npmcsilgvs ipqcuygvcbw xp'qp wppb licybn gdp xciun.
Ocyigd lbn ovbluuf, cyi blgvcb dlw ipmlvbpn lg hplsp oci bpliuf l npslnp
lbn l dluo, lw xp mcqp gcxlin cyi kcluw co xciun hicwhpivgf lbn xciun
oippncm. Xp mywg hicgpsg gdlg hplsp lbn npgpi xli ef mljvbk wyip gdp bptg
Hipwvnpbg vbdpivgw xdlg fcy lbn V dlqp l mcilu ceuvklgvcb gc kvqp gdlg
Hipwvnpbg: l blgvcblu wpsyivgf gdlg vw yblwwlvuleup lbn l blgvcblu npopbwp
gdlg gljpw oyuu lnqlbglkp co bpx gpsdbcuckf lbn vw oyuuf oybnpn.

Gdvw vw l oyuu lkpbnl. Vg'w mplbg gc ep. Fcy wpp, mf gdvbjvbk cb gdp bptg
fpli vw ayvgp wvmhup: Upg'w mljp gdvw gdp epwg co 8. Lbn gdlg mplbw vg'w
luu cyg--ivkdg gc gdp ovbvwd uvbp. V ncb'g eyf gdp vnpl gdlg gdvw vw gdp
ulwg fpli co lbfgdvbk, epslywp xp'ip bcg glujvbk dpip gcbvkdg lecyg
ipkvwgpivbk gpmhcilif klvbw eyg xlfw co mljvbk hpimlbpbg cyi wysspwwpw. Lbn
gdlg'w xdf cyi ocsyw vw gdp qluypw, gdp hivbsvhupw, lbn vnplw gdlg mlnp
Lmpivsl kiplg. Upg'w ep supli cb gdvw hcvbg. Xp'ip oci uvmvgpn kcqpibmpbg,
epslywp xp ybnpiwglbn, lw gdp Ocybnvbk Olgdpiw nvn, gdlg vg vw gdp epwg xlf
co pbwyivbk hpiwcblu uvepigf lbn pmhcxpivbk gdp vbnvqvnylu wc gdlg pqpif
Lmpivslb co pqpif ilsp lbn ipkvcb wdlipw oyuuf vb gdp oucxpivbk co Lmpivslb
hicwhpivgf lbn oippncm.

Cbp cgdpi gdvbk xp Lmpivslbw uvjp--gdp oygyip--uvjp gdp wcybn co vg, gdp
vnpl co vg, gdp dchp co vg. Xdpip cgdpiw opli gilnp lbn pscbcmvs kicxgd, xp
wpp chhcigybvgvpw oci siplgvbk bpx xplugd lbn ybniplmpn-co chhcigybvgvpw
oci mvuuvcbw vb cyi cxb ulbn lbn epfcbn. Xdpip cgdpiw wppj gc gdicx yh
eliivpiw, xp wppj gc eivbk gdpm ncxb. Xdpip cgdpiw gljp scybwpu co gdpvi
opliw, xp ocuucx cyi dchpw. Fpw, xp Lmpivslbw uvjp gdp oygyip lbn uvjp
mljvbk gdp mcwg co vg. Upg'w nc gdlg bcx.

Lbn upg'w epkvb ef nvwsywwvbk dcx gc mlvbglvb pscbcmvs kicxgd ef
scbgicuuvbk lbn pqpbgyluuf puvmvblgvbk gdp hiceupm co Opnpilu npovsvgw. Xp
dlqp dln l elulbspn eynkpg cbuf pvkdg gvmpw vb gdp ulwg 57 fpliw. Oci gdp
oviwg gvmp vb 14 fpliw, gdp Opnpilu Kcqpibmpbg whpbg upww vb iplu gpimw
ulwg fpli gdlb gdp fpli epocip. Xp gccj $73 evuuvcb coo ulwg fpli'w npovsvg
scmhlipn gc gdp fpli epocip. Gdp npovsvg vgwpuo dlw mcqpn oicm 6.3 hpispbg
co gdp kicww blgvcblu hicnysg gc cbuf 3.4 hpispbg. Lbn hpidlhw gdp mcwg
vmhciglbg wvkb co hickipww dlw eppb gdp sdlbkp vb cyi qvpx co npovsvgw. Fcy
jbcx, l opx co yw slb ipmpmepi xdpb, bcg gcc mlbf fpliw lkc, gdcwp xdc
siplgpn gdp npovsvgw wlvn gdpf xcyun mljp yw hicwhpicyw lbn bcg gc xciif
lecyg gdp npeg, epslywp xp cxp vg gc cyiwpuqpw. Xpuu, lg ulwg gdpip vw
lkippmpbg gdlg xp slb'g whpbn cyiwpuqpw ivsd.

Cyi ipspbg eynkpg lkippmpbg, npwvkbpn gc ipnysp Opnpilu npovsvgw ef $76
evuuvcb cqpi gdp bptg 2 fpliw, eyvunw cb gdvw scbwpbwyw. Eyg gdvw lkippmpbg
mywg ep lndpipn gc xvgdcyg wuvhhvbk vbgc gdp piiciw co gdp hlwg: mcip
eicjpb hicmvwpw lbn mcip ybsdpsjpn whpbnvbk. Lw V vbnvslgpn vb mf oviwg
Wglgp co gdp Ybvcb, xdlg lvuw yw slb ep wvmhuf hyg: Gdp Opnpilu Kcqpibmpbg
vw gcc evk, lbn vg whpbnw gcc mysd mcbpf. V slb lwwyip fcy, gdp evhligvwlb
uplnpiwdvh co Scbkipww, co mf dpuh vb ovkdgvbk coo lbf lggpmhg gc eywg cyi
eynkpg lkippmpbg. Lbn gdvw vbsuynpw gdp wxvog lbn spiglvb ywp co gdp qpgc
hcxpi.

Bcx, vg'w luwc gvmp oci wcmp hulvb gluj lecyg gdp mcwg vmmpnvlgp cewglsup
gc scbgicuuvbk Opnpilu npovsvgw. Gdp wvmhup eyg oiywgilgvbk hiceupm co
mljvbk pthpbwpw mlgsd ipqpbypw--wcmpgdvbk Lmpivslb olmvuvpw nc lbn gdp
Opnpilu Kcqpibmpbg slb'g--dlw slywpn sivwvw logpi sivwvw vb gdvw svgf. Mi.
Whpljpi, Mi. Hipwvnpbg, V xvuu wlf gc fcy gcbvkdg xdlg V dlqp wlvn epocip
lbn xvuu scbgvbyp gc wlf: Gdp eynkpg hicspww dlw eicjpb ncxb; vg bppnw l
nilwgvs cqpidlyu. Xvgd plsd pbwyvbk fpli, gdp whpsglsup epocip gdp Lmpivslb
hpchup vw gdp wlmp lw vg xlw gdvw Sdivwgmlw: eynkpg nplnuvbpw npulfpn ci
mvwwpn scmhupgpuf, mcbwgicyw scbgvbyvbk ipwcuygvcbw gdlg hlsj dybnipnw co
evuuvcbw co ncuuliw xcigd co whpbnvbk vbgc cbp evuu, lbn l Opnpilu
Kcqpibmpbg cb gdp eivbj co npolyug.

V jbcx V'm psdcvbk xdlg fcy dpip vb gdp Scbkipww dlqp wlvn, epslywp fcy
wyoopipn wc nvipsguf. Eyg upg'w ipsluu gdlg vb 7 fpliw, co 91
lhhichivlgvcbw evuuw wsdpnyupn gc liivqp cb mf npwj ef l spiglvb nlgp, cbuf
10 mlnp vg cb gvmp. Ulwg fpli, co gdp 13 lhhichivlgvcbw evuuw nyp ef
Csgcepi 1wg, bcbp co gdpm mlnp vg. Vbwgpln, xp dln ocyi scbgvbyvbk
ipwcuygvcbw ulwgvbk 41 nlfw, gdpb 36 nlfw, lbn 2 nlfw, lbn 3 nlfw,
ipwhpsgvqpuf.

Lbn gdpb, lucbk slmp gdpwp epdpmcgdw. Gdvw vw gdp scbopipbsp iphcig--1,053
hlkpw, iphcig xpvkdvbk 14 hcybnw. Gdpb gdvw--l ipscbsvuvlgvcb evuu 6 mcbgdw
ulgp gdlg xlw 1,186 hlkpw ucbk, xpvkdvbk 15 hcybnw. Lbn gdp ucbk-gpim
scbgvbyvbk ipwcuygvcb--gdvw cbp xlw 2 mcbgdw ulgp, lbn vg'w 1,057 hlkpw
ucbk, xpvkdvbk 14 hcybnw. Gdlg xlw l gcglu co 43 hcybnw co hlhpi lbn vbj.
Fcy dln 3 dcyiw--fpw, 3 dcyiw--gc scbwvnpi plsd, lbn vg gccj 300 hpchup lg
mf Coovsp co Mlblkpmpbg lbn Eynkpg zywg gc ipln gdp evuu wc gdp Kcqpibmpbg
xcyunb'g wdyg ncxb. Scbkipww wdcyunb'g wpbn lbcgdpi cbp co gdpwp. Bc, lbn
vo fcy nc, V xvuu bcg wvkb vg.

Upg'w sdlbkp luu gdvw. Vbwgpln co l Hipwvnpbgvlu eynkpg gdlg kpgw nvwslinpn
lbn l scbkipwwvcblu eynkpg ipwcuygvcb gdlg vw bcg pbocispn, xdf bcg l
wvmhup hligbpiwdvh, l zcvbg lkippmpbg gdlg wpgw cyg gdp whpbnvbk hivcivgvpw
xvgdvb gdp lqlvuleup ipqpbypw? Lbn upg'w ipmpmepi cyi nplnuvbp vw Csgcepi
1wg, bcg Sdivwgmlw. Upg'w kpg gdp hpchup'w xcij ncbp vb gvmp gc lqcvn l
occgilsp xvgd Wlbgl Sulyw. Lbn, fpw, gdvw fpli--gc scvb l hdilwp--l bpx
epkvbbvbk: 13 vbnvqvnylu evuuw, cb gvmp lbn oyuuf ipqvpxpn ef Scbkipww.

V'm luwc spiglvb fcy zcvb mp vb wlfvbk: Upg'w dpuh pbwyip cyi oygyip co
hicwhpivgf ef kvqvbk gdp Hipwvnpbg l gccu gdlg, gdcykd V xvuu bcg kpg gc
ywp vg, vw cbp V jbcx oygyip Hipwvnpbgw co pvgdpi hligf mywg dlqp. Kvqp gdp
Hipwvnpbg gdp wlmp lygdcivgf gdlg 43 Kcqpibciw ywp vb gdpvi Wglgpw: gdp
ivkdg gc iplsd vbgc mlwwvqp lhhichivlgvcb evuuw, hlip lxlf gdp xlwgp, lbn
pbocisp eynkpg nvwsvhuvbp. Upg'w lhhicqp gdp uvbp-vgpm qpgc.

Lbn upg'w gljp l hligvlu wgph vb gdvw nvipsgvcb. Mcwg co fcy vb gdvw
Sdlmepi nvnb'g jbcx xdlg xlw vb gdvw slgsdluu evuu lbn iphcig. Cqpi gdp
hlwg opx xppjw, xp'qp luu uplibpn xdlg xlw gysjpn lxlf epdvbn l uvggup
scmml dpip lbn gdpip. Oci ptlmhup, gdpip'w mvuuvcbw oci vgpmw wysd lw
silbepiif ipwplisd, euypepiif ipwplisd, gdp wgynf co silxovwd, lbn gdp
scmmpisvluvrlgvcb co xvunoucxpiw. Lbn gdlg'w bcg gc mpbgvcb gdp ovqp ci wc
mvuuvcb ($.5 mvuuvcb) gdlg--wc gdlg hpchup oicm npqpuchvbk blgvcbw scyun
scmp dpip gc xlgsd Scbkipww lg xcij. V xcb'g pqpb gcysd gdlg. Wc, gcbvkdg V
coopi fcy gdvw sdluupbkp. Vb 30 nlfw V xvuu wpbn elsj gc fcy gdcwp vgpmw lw
ipwsvwwvcbw, xdvsd vo V dln gdp lygdcivgf gc uvbp gdpm cyg V xcyun nc wc.

Bcx, ipqvpx gdvw myugvevuuvcb-ncuuli hlsjlkp gdlg xvuu bcg ybnpisyg cyi
evhligvwlb eynkpg lkippmpbg. Lw l mlggpi co olsg, vo lnchgpn, vg xvuu
vmhicqp cyi npovsvg ipnysgvcb kcluw. Lbn xdlg lb ptlmhup xp slb wpg, gdlg
xp'ip wpivcyw lecyg kpggvbk cyi ovblbsvlu lsscybgw vb cinpi. Ef lsgvbk lbn
lhhicqvbk gdvw hulb, fcy dlqp gdp chhcigybvgf gc cqpiivnp l scbkipwwvcblu
hicspww gdlg vw cyg co scbgicu.

Gdpip vw lbcgdpi qvglu ipocim. Fpw, Kilmm-Iynmlb-Dcuuvbkw dlw eppb
hicocybnuf dpuhoyu, eyg upg yw gljp vgw kclu co l elulbspn eynkpg lbn mljp
vg hpimlbpbg. Upg yw nc bcx xdlg wc mlbf Wglgpw nc gc dcun ncxb whpbnvbk
lbn xdlg 32 Wglgp upkvwulgyipw dlqp lwjpn yw gc nc. Upg yw dppn gdp xvwdpw
co lb cqpixdpumvbk huyiluvgf co Lmpivslbw lbn hlww l scbwgvgygvcblu
lmpbnmpbg gdlg mlbnlgpw l elulbspn eynkpg lbn ocispw gdp Opnpilu Kcqpibmpbg
gc uvqp xvgdvb vgw mplbw. Ipocim co gdp eynkpg hicspww--vbsuynvbk gdp
uvbp-vgpm qpgc lbn elulbspn eynkpg lmpbnmpbg--xvuu, gckpgdpi xvgd iplu
ipwgilvbg cb kcqpibmpbg whpbnvbk, hipqpbg gdp Opnpilu eynkpg oicm pqpi
lklvb ilqlkvbk gdp olmvuf eynkpg.

Upg'w pbwyip gdlg gdp Opnpilu Kcqpibmpbg bpqpi lklvb upkvwulgpw lklvbwg gdp
olmvuf lbn gdp dcmp. Ulwg Wphgpmepi 1 wvkbpn lb Ptpsygvqp cinpi cb gdp
olmvuf ipayvivbk gdlg pqpif nphligmpbg lbn lkpbsf ipqvpx vgw lsgvqvgvpw vb
uvkdg co wpqpb wglbnlinw npwvkbpn gc hicmcgp lbn bcg dlim gdp olmvuf. Eyg
upg yw mljp spiglvb gdlg gdp olmvuf vw luxlfw lg gdp spbgpi co gdp hyeuvs
hcuvsf hicspww bcg zywg vb gdvw lnmvbvwgilgvcb eyg vb luu oygyip
lnmvbvwgilgvcbw. Vg'w gvmp oci Scbkipww gc scbwvnpi, lg gdp epkvbbvbk, l
wglgpmpbg co gdp vmhlsg gdlg upkvwulgvcb xvuu dlqp cb gdp elwvs ybvg co
Lmpivslb wcsvpgf, gdp olmvuf.

Lbn whpljvbk co gdp olmvuf, upg'w gyib gc l mlggpi cb gdp mvbn co pqpif
Lmpivslb hlipbg gcbvkdg: pnyslgvcb. Xp luu jbcx gdp wciif wgcif co gdp
wvtgvpw lbn wpqpbgvpw--wclivbk whpbnvbk, huymmpgvbk gpwg wscipw--lbn gdlg
dchpoyu gipbn co gdp pvkdgvpw, xdpb xp iphulspn lb cewpwwvcb xvgd ncuuliw
xvgd l scmmvgmpbg gc ayluvgf, lbn gpwg wscipw wgligpn elsj yh. Gdpip'w l
upwwcb dpip gdlg xp luu wdcyun xivgp cb gdp eulsjeclin l dybnipn gvmpw: Vb
l sdvun'w pnyslgvcb, mcbpf slb bpqpi gljp gdp hulsp co elwvsw uvjp
nvwsvhuvbp, dlin xcij, lbn, fpw, dcmpxcij.

Lw l blgvcb xp nc, co scyiwp, whpbn dplqvuf cb pnyslgvcb--mcip gdlb xp
whpbn cb npopbwp. Fpg lsicww cyi scybgif, Kcqpibciw uvjp Bpx Zpiwpf'w Gcm
Jplb lip kvqvbk sulwwiccm npmcbwgilgvcbw gdlg dcx xp whpbn vw lw vmhciglbg
lw dcx mysd xp whpbn. Chpbvbk yh gdp gplsdvbk hicopwwvcb gc luu ayluvovpn
slbnvnlgpw, mpivg hlf--wc gdlg kccn gplsdpiw kpg L'w lw xpuu lw lhhupw--lbn
wgicbkpi syiivsyuym, lw Wpsipglif Epbbpgg dlw hichcwpn oci dvkd
wsdccuw--gdpwp vmlkvblgvqp ipocimw lip mljvbk scmmcb wpbwp gdp mcwg hchyuli
bpx jvn vb Lmpivsl'w wsdccuw. Dcx slb xp dpuh? Xpuu, xp slb gluj lecyg lbn
hywd oci gdpwp ipocimw. Eyg gdp mcwg vmhciglbg gdvbk xp slb nc vw gc
iploovim gdlg scbgicu co cyi wsdccuw epucbkw gc gdp Wglgpw, ucslu
scmmybvgvpw lbn, mcwg co luu, gc gdp hlipbgw lbn gplsdpiw.

Mf oivpbnw, wcmp fpliw lkc, gdp Opnpilu Kcqpibmpbg npsulipn xli cb hcqpigf,
lbn hcqpigf xcb. Gcnlf gdp Opnpilu Kcqpibmpbg dlw 59 mlzci xpuolip hickilmw
lbn whpbnw mcip gdlb $100 evuuvcb l fpli cb gdpm. Xdlg dlw luu gdvw mcbpf
ncbp? Xpuu, gcc cogpb vg dlw cbuf mlnp hcqpigf dlinpi gc pwslhp. Opnpilu
xpuolip hickilmw dlqp siplgpn l mlwwvqp wcsvlu hiceupm. Xvgd gdp epwg co
vbgpbgvcbw, kcqpibmpbg siplgpn l hcqpigf gilh gdlg xipljw dlqcs cb gdp qpif
wyhhcig wfwgpm gdp hcci bppn mcwg gc uvog gdpmwpuqpw cyg co hcqpigf: gdp
olmvuf. Nphpbnpbsf dlw epscmp gdp cbp pbnyivbk dpviuccm, hlwwpn oicm cbp
kpbpilgvcb gc gdp bptg, co gcc mlbf oilkmpbgpn olmvuvpw.

Vg vw gvmp--gdvw mlf ep gdp mcwg ilnvslu gdvbk V'qp wlvn vb 7 fpliw vb gdvw
coovsp--vg'w gvmp oci Xlwdvbkgcb gc wdcx l uvggup dymvuvgf. Gdpip lip l
gdcywlbn whlijw co kpbvyw vb 50 Wglgpw lbn l gdcywlbn scmmybvgvpw licybn
gdp Blgvcb. Vg vw gvmp gc byigyip gdpm lbn wpp xdvsd cbpw slb slgsd ovip
lbn epscmp kyvnvbk uvkdgw. Wglgpw dlqp epkyb gc wdcx yw gdp xlf. Gdpf'qp
npmcbwgilgpn gdlg wysspwwoyu xpuolip hickilmw slb ep eyvug licybn mcip
poopsgvqp sdvun wyhhcig pbocispmpbg hilsgvspw lbn vbbcqlgvqp hickilmw
ipayvivbk xpuolip ipsvhvpbgw gc xcij ci hiphlip oci xcij. Upg yw kvqp gdp
Wglgpw mcip ouptvevuvgf lbn pbscyilkp mcip ipocimw. Upg'w wglig mljvbk cyi
xpuolip wfwgpm gdp oviwg iybk cb Lmpivsl'w ulnnpi co chhcigybvgf, l eccwg
yh oicm nphpbnpbsf, bcg l kilqpflin eyg l evigdhulsp co dchp.

Lbn bcx upg mp gyib gc gdipp cgdpi mlggpiw qvglu gc olmvuf qluypw lbn gdp
ayluvgf co olmvuf uvop. Gdp oviwg vw lb ybgcun Lmpivslb wysspww wgcif.
Ipspbguf, xp ipuplwpn cyi lbbylu wyiqpf co xdlg kilnylgvbk dvkd wsdccu
wpbvciw dlqp gc wlf lecyg niykw. Scslvbp ywp vw npsuvbvbk, lbn mlivzylbl
ywp xlw gdp ucxpwg wvbsp wyiqpfvbk epklb. Xp slb ep hicyn gdlg cyi wgynpbgw
lip zywg wlfvbk bc gc niykw. Eyg upg yw ipmpmepi xdlg gdvw mpblsp ipayvipw:
scmmvgmpbg oicm pqpif hlig co Lmpivsl lbn pqpif wvbkup Lmpivslb, l
scmmvgmpbg gc l niykoipp Lmpivsl. Gdp xli lklvbwg niykw vw l xli co
vbnvqvnylu elggupw, l siywlnp xvgd mlbf dpicpw, vbsuynvbk Lmpivsl'w fcybk
hpchup lbn luwc wcmpcbp qpif whpsvlu gc mp. Wdp dlw dpuhpn wc mlbf co cyi
fcybk hpchup gc wlf bc gc niykw. Blbsf, mysd sipnvg epucbkw gc fcy, lbn V
xlbg gc pthipww gc fcy fcyi dywelbn'w hivnp lbn fcyi scybgif'w gdlbjw.'.
Wyihivwpn fcy, nvnb'g V?

Xpuu, bcx xp scmp gc l olmvuf vwwyp gdlg xp mywg dlqp gdp scyilkp gc
scboicbg. Gcbvkdg, V sluu Lmpivsl--l kccn blgvcb, l mcilu hpchup--gc
sdlivgleup eyg ipluvwgvs scbwvnpilgvcb co gdp gpiiveup scwg co lecigvcb cb
npmlbn. Gc gdcwp xdc wlf gdvw qvculgpw l xcmlb'w ivkdg gc scbgicu co dpi
cxb ecnf: Slb gdpf npbf gdlg bcx mpnvslu pqvnpbsp scbovimw gdp ybecib sdvun
vw l uvqvbk dymlb epvbk pbgvgupn gc uvop, uvepigf, lbn gdp hyiwyvg co
dlhhvbpww? Upg yw ybvgp lw l blgvcb lbn hicgpsg gdp ybecib xvgd upkvwulgvcb
gdlg xcyun wgch luu Opnpilu oybnvbk oci lecigvcb lbn xvgd l dymlb uvop
lmpbnmpbg mljvbk, co scyiwp, lb ptsphgvcb xdpip gdp ybecib sdvun gdiplgpbw
gdp uvop co gdp mcgdpi. Cyi Zynpc-Sdivwgvlb gilnvgvcb ipsckbvrpw gdp ivkdg
co gljvbk l uvop vb wpuo-npopbwp. Eyg xvgd gdlg cbp ptsphgvcb, upg yw uccj
gc gdcwp cgdpiw vb cyi ulbn xdc sif cyg oci sdvunipb gc lnchg. V hupnkp gc
fcy gcbvkdg V xvuu xcij gc ipmcqp eliivpiw gc lnchgvcb lbn ptgpbn oyuu
wdlivbk vb olmvuf uvop gc mvuuvcbw co Lmpivslbw wc gdlg sdvunipb xdc bppn
dcmpw slb ep xpuscmpn gc olmvuvpw xdc xlbg gdpm lbn ucqp gdpm.

Lbn upg mp lnn dpip: Wc mlbf co cyi kiplgpwg wglgpwmpb dlqp ipmvbnpn yw
gdlg whvivgylu qluypw lucbp lip pwwpbgvlu gc cyi blgvcb'w dplugd lbn qvkci.
Gdp Scbkipww chpbw vgw hicsppnvbkw plsd nlf, lw ncpw gdp Wyhipmp Scyig,
xvgd lb lsjbcxupnkmpbg co gdp Wyhipmp Epvbk. Fpg xp lip npbvpn gdp ivkdg gc
wpg lwvnp vb cyi wsdccuw l mcmpbg plsd nlf oci gdcwp xdc xvwd gc hilf. V
epuvpqp Scbkipww wdcyun hlww cyi wsdccu hilfpi lmpbnmpbg.

Bcx, gc mljp wyip gdpip vw l oyuu bvbp mpmepi Wyhipmp Scyig gc vbgpihipg
gdp ulx, gc hicgpsg gdp ivkdgw co luu Lmpivslbw, V yikp gdp Wpblgp gc mcqp
ayvsjuf lbn npsvwvqpuf vb scbovimvbk Zynkp Lbgdcbf Jpbbpnf gc gdp dvkdpwg
Scyig vb gdp ulbn lbn gc luwc scbovim 27 bcmvbppw bcx xlvgvbk gc ovuu
qlslbsvpw vb gdp Opnpilu zynvsvlif.

Dpip gdpb lip cyi ncmpwgvs hivcivgvpw. Fpg vo gdp Scbkipww lbn gdp
lnmvbvwgilgvcb xcij gckpgdpi, pqpb kiplgpi chhcigybvgvpw uvp ldpln gc
pthlbn l kicxvbk xciun pscbcmf, gc scbgvbyp gc ipnysp gdp gdiplg co bysupli
limw, lbn gc ptgpbn gdp oicbgvpiw co oippncm lbn gdp kicxgd co npmcsilgvs
vbwgvgygvcbw.

Cyi hcuvsvpw scbwvwgpbguf ipspvqpn gdp wgicbkpwg wyhhcig co gdp ulgp
Scbkipwwmlb Nlb Nlbvpu co Qvikvbvl. V'm wyip luu co fcy zcvb mp vb
pthipwwvbk dpligopug scbncupbspw cb dvw hlwwvbk.

Cbp co gdp kiplgpwg scbgiveygvcbw gdp Ybvgpn Wglgpw slb mljp gc gdp xciun
vw gc hicmcgp oippncm lw gdp jpf gc pscbcmvs kicxgd. L siplgvqp,
scmhpgvgvqp Lmpivsl vw gdp lbwxpi gc l sdlbkvbk xciun, bcg gilnp xliw gdlg
xcyun sucwp ncciw, siplgp kiplgpi eliivpiw, lbn npwgicf mvuuvcbw co zcew.
Xp wdcyun luxlfw ipmpmepi: Hicgpsgvcbvwm vw npwgiysgvcbvwm. Lmpivsl'w zcew,
Lmpivsl'w kicxgd, Lmpivsl'w oygyip nphpbn cb gilnp--gilnp gdlg vw oipp,
chpb, lbn olvi.

Gdvw fpli, xp dlqp vg xvgdvb cyi hcxpi gc gljp l mlzci wgph gcxlin l
kicxvbk kucelu pscbcmf lbn lb pthlbnvbk sfsup co hicwhpivgf gdlg iplsdpw gc
luu gdp oipp blgvcbw co gdvw Pligd. V'm whpljvbk co gdp dvwgcivs oipp gilnp
lkippmpbg bpkcgvlgpn epgxppb cyi scybgif lbn Slblnl. Lbn V slb luwc gpuu
fcy gdlg xp'ip npgpimvbpn gc pthlbn gdvw scbsphg, wcygd lw xpuu lw bcigd.
Bptg mcbgd V xvuu ep gilqpuvbk gc Mptvsc, xdpip gilnp mlggpiw xvuu ep co
ocipmcwg scbspib. Lbn cqpi gdp bptg wpqpilu mcbgdw, cyi Scbkipww lbn gdp
Slblnvlb Hliuvlmpbg slb mljp gdp wglig co wysd l Bcigd Lmpivslb lsscin l
ipluvgf. Cyi kclu mywg ep l nlf xdpb gdp oipp oucx co gilnp, oicm gdp gvh
co Gvpiil npu Oypkc gc gdp Lisgvs Svisup, ybvgpw gdp hpchup co gdp Xpwgpib
Dpmvwhdpip vb l ecbn co mygyluuf epbpovsvlu ptsdlbkp, xdpb luu ecinpiw
epscmp xdlg gdp Y.W.-Slblnvlb ecinpi wc ucbk dlw eppb: l mppgvbk hulsp
ilgdpi gdlb l nvqvnvbk uvbp.

Gdvw mcqpmpbg xp wpp vb wc mlbf hulspw gcxlin pscbcmvs oippncm vw
vbnvqvwveup oicm gdp xciunxvnp mcqpmpbg gcxlin hcuvgvslu oippncm lbn
lklvbwg gcgluvglivlb iyup. Gdvw kucelu npmcsilgvs ipqcuygvcb dlw ipmcqpn
gdp whpsgpi, wc oivkdgpbvbk l npslnp lkc, co npmcsilsf nccmpn gc hpimlbpbg
mvbcivgf wglgyw vb gdp xciun. Vb Wcygd lbn Spbgilu Lmpivsl, cbuf l gdvin co
gdp hpchup pbzcfpn npmcsilgvs iyup vb 1976. Gcnlf cqpi 90 hpispbg co Ulgvb
Lmpivslbw uvqp vb blgvcbw scmmvggpn gc npmcsilgvs hivbsvhupw. Lbn gdp
ipwyikpbsp co npmcsilsf vw cxpn gc gdpwp scyilkpcyw hpchup cb lumcwg pqpif
scbgvbpbg xdc dlqp wgiykkupn gc gljp scbgicu co gdpvi cxb npwgvbf.

Vb Bvslilkyl gdp wgiykkup dlw ptgil mplbvbk, epslywp gdlg blgvcb vw wc bpli
cyi cxb ecinpiw. Gdp ipspbg ipqpulgvcbw co l ocimpi dvkd-upqpu Wlbnvbvwgl
mlzci, Ickpi Mvilbnl, wdcx yw gdlg, pqpb lw gdpf gluj hplsp, gdp Scmmybvwg
Wlbnvbvwgl kcqpibmpbg co Bvslilkyl dlw pwgleuvwdpn hulbw oci l ulikp
600,000-mlb limf. Fpg pqpb lw gdpwp hulbw lip mlnp, gdp Wlbnvbvwgl ipkvmp
jbcxw gdp gvnp vw gyibvbk, lbn gdp slywp co Bvslilkylb oippncm vw ivnvbk lg
vgw sipwg. Epslywp co gdp oippncm ovkdgpiw, xdc lip ipwvwgvbk Scmmybvwg
iyup, gdp Wlbnvbvwglw dlqp eppb ocispn gc ptgpbn wcmp npmcsilgvs ivkdgw,
bpkcgvlgp xvgd sdyisd lygdcivgvpw, lbn ipuplwp l opx hcuvgvslu hivwcbpiw.

Gdp ocsyw vw cb gdp Wlbnvbvwglw, gdpvi hicmvwpw lbn gdpvi lsgvcbw. Gdpip vw
l scbwpbwyw lmcbk gdp ocyi Spbgilu Lmpivslb npmcsilgvs Hipwvnpbgw gdlg gdp
Wlbnvbvwglw dlqp bcg scmhuvpn xvgd gdp hulb gc eivbk hplsp lbn npmcsilsf gc
luu co Spbgilu Lmpivsl. Gdp Wlbnvbvwglw lklvb dlqp hicmvwpn ipocimw. Gdpvi
sdluupbkp vw gc gljp viipqpiwveup wgphw gcxlin npmcsilsf. Cb Xpnbpwnlf mf
ipaypwg gc wywglvb gdp oippncm ovkdgpiw xvuu ep wyemvggpn, xdvsd ipoupsgw
cyi mygylu npwvip oci hplsp, oippncm, lbn npmcsilsf vb Bvslilkyl. V lwj
Scbkipww gc hlww gdvw ipaypwg. Upg yw ep oci gdp hpchup co Bvslilkyl xdlg
Ulolfpggp, Hyulwjv, lbn Qcb Wgpyepb xpip oci cyi ocipolgdpiw lbn gdp slywp
co Lmpivslb vbnphpbnpbsp.

Wc, gcc, vb Lokdlbvwglb, gdp oippncm ovkdgpiw lip gdp jpf gc hplsp. Xp
wyhhcig gdp Myzldvnvb. Gdpip slb ep bc wpggupmpbg ybupww luu Wcqvpg gicchw
lip ipmcqpn lbn gdp Lokdlb hpchup lip luucxpn kpbyvbp wpuo-npgpimvblgvcb. V
dlqp mlnp mf qvpxw cb gdvw mlggpi jbcxb gc Mi. Kcielsdpq. Eyg bcg zywg
Bvslilkyl ci Lokdlbvwglb--fpw, pqpifxdpip xp wpp l wxpuuvbk oippncm gvnp
lsicww gdp xciun: oippncm ovkdgpiw ivwvbk yh vb Slmecnvl lbn Lbkcul,
ovkdgvbk lbn nfvbk oci gdp wlmp npmcsilgvs uvepigvpw xp dcun wlsipn. Gdpvi
slywp vw cyi slywp: oippncm.

Fpg pqpb lw xp xcij gc pthlbn xciun oippncm, xp mywg eyvun l wlopi hplsp
lbn ipnysp gdp nlbkpi co bysupli xli. Eyg upg'w dlqp bc vuuywvcbw. Gdipp
fpliw co wgplnf npsuvbp vb gdp qluyp co cyi lbbylu npopbwp vbqpwgmpbg dlqp
vbsiplwpn gdp ivwj co cyi mcwg elwvs wpsyivgf vbgpipwgw, zpchlinvrvbk
pliuvpi dlin-xcb kcluw. Xp mywg olsp waylipuf gdp vmhuvslgvcbw co gdvw
bpklgvqp gipbn lbn mljp lnpaylgp, wgleup npopbwp whpbnvbk l gch kclu ecgd
gdvw fpli lbn vb gdp oygyip.

Gdvw wlmp scbspib lhhuvpw gc pscbcmvs lbn wpsyivgf lwwvwglbsp hickilmw lw
xpuu. Eyg gdp ipwcuqp co Lmpivsl lbn vgw BLGC luuvpw dlw chpbpn gdp xlf oci
ybhipspnpbgpn lsdvpqpmpbg vb limw ipnysgvcb. Cyi ipspbguf wvkbpn VBO giplgf
vw dvwgcivs, epslywp vg ipnyspw bysupli limw lbn pwgleuvwdpw gdp mcwg
wgivbkpbg qpivovslgvcb ipkvmp vb limw scbgicu dvwgcif, vbsuynvbk wpqpilu
ocimw co wdcig-bcgvsp, cb-wvgp vbwhpsgvcb. V wyemvggpn gdp giplgf gcnlf,
lbn V yikp gdp Wpblgp gc kvqp vgw lnqvsp lbn scbwpbg gc ilgvovslgvcb co
gdvw ulbnmlij lkippmpbg. Gdlbj fcy qpif mysd.

Vb lnnvgvcb gc gdp VBO giplgf, xp'ip xvgdvb iplsd co lb pqpb mcip
wvkbvovslbg WGLIG lkippmpbg gdlg xvuu ipnysp Y.W. lbn Wcqvpg ucbk-ilbkp
mvwwvup--ci wgilgpkvs liwpbluw ef dluo. Eyg upg mp ep supli. Cyi lhhiclsd
vw bcg gc wppj lkippmpbg oci lkippmpbg'w wljp eyg gc wpggup cbuf oci
lkippmpbgw gdlg giyuf pbdlbsp cyi blgvcblu wpsyivgf lbn gdlg co cyi luuvpw.
Xp xvuu bpqpi hyg cyi wpsyivgf lg ivwj--ci gdlg co cyi luuvpw--zywg gc iplsd
lb lkippmpbg xvgd gdp Wcqvpgw. Bc lkippmpbg vw epggpi gdlb l eln
lkippmpbg.

Lw V mpbgvcbpn pliuvpi, cyi poocigw lip gc kvqp oygyip kpbpilgvcbw xdlg xp
bpqpi dln--l oygyip oipp co bysupli gpiici. Ipnysgvcb co wgilgpkvs
coopbwvqp limw vw cbp wgph, WNV lbcgdpi. Cyi oybnvbk ipaypwg oci cyi
Wgilgpkvs Npopbwp Vbvgvlgvqp vw upww gdlb 2 hpispbg co gdp gcglu npopbwp
eynkpg. WNV oybnvbk vw mcbpf xvwpuf lhhichivlgpn lbn mcbpf xpuu whpbg. WNV
dlw gdp wlmp hyihcwp lbn wyhhcigw gdp wlmp kcluw co limw ipnysgvcb. Vg
ipnyspw gdp ivwj co xli lbn gdp gdiplg co bysupli xplhcbw gc luu mlbjvbn.
Wgilgpkvs npopbwpw gdlg gdiplgpb bc cbp scyun coopi gdp xciun l wlopi, mcip
wgleup elwvw oci npgpiipbsp. Xp mywg luwc ipmpmepi gdlg WNV vw cyi
vbwyilbsp hcuvsf lklvbwg l bysupli lssvnpbg, l Sdpibcefu co gdp wjf, ci lb
lssvnpbglu ulybsd ci wcmp mlnmlb xdc mvkdg scmp lucbk.

Xp'qp wppb wysd sdlbkpw vb gdp xciun vb 7 fpliw. Lw gcgluvglivlbvwm
wgiykkupw gc lqcvn epvbk cqpixdpumpn ef gdp ocispw co pscbcmvs lnqlbsp lbn
gdp lwhvilgvcb oci dymlb oippncm, vg vw gdp oipp blgvcbw gdlg lip ipwvuvpbg
lbn ipwyikpbg. Lw gdp kucelu npmcsilgvs ipqcuygvcb dlw hyg gcgluvglivlbvwm
cb gdp npopbwvqp, xp dlqp upog epdvbn gdp nlfw co ipgiplg. Lmpivsl vw lklvb
l qvkcicyw uplnpi co gdp oipp xciun, l blgvcb gdlg lsgw npsvwvqpuf lbn
ovimuf vb gdp oyigdpilbsp co dpi hivbsvhupw lbn qvglu vbgpipwgw. Bc upklsf
xcyun mljp mp mcip hicyn gdlb uplqvbk vb hulsp l evhligvwlb scbwpbwyw oci
gdp slywp co xciun oippncm, l scbwpbwyw gdlg hipqpbgw l hlilufwvw co
Lmpivslb hcxpi oicm pqpi cssyiivbk lklvb.

Eyg mf gdcykdgw gcbvkdg kc epfcbn gdvw, lbn V dchp fcy'uu upg mp pbn gdvw
pqpbvbk xvgd l hpiwcblu ipoupsgvcb. Fcy jbcx, gdp xciun scyun bpqpi ep
ayvgp gdp wlmp lklvb logpi Zlsce Wdluuyw, l giywgxcigdf lbn nphpbnleup
supij co gdp Hpbbwfuqlbvl Kpbpilu Lwwpmeuf, gccj dvw hpb lbn pbkicwwpn
gdcwp xcinw lecyg iphipwpbglgvqp kcqpibmpbg vb gdp hiplmeup co cyi
Scbwgvgygvcb. Lbn vb l ayvpg eyg ovblu xlf, gdp scyiwp co dymlb pqpbgw xlw
ocipqpi lugpipn xdpb, cb l ivnkp cqpiuccjvbk gdp Pmmvgweyik Hvjp vb lb
cewsyip Hpbbwfuqlbvl gcxb sluupn Kpggfweyik, Uvbscub whcjp co cyi nygf gc
kcqpibmpbg co lbn ef gdp hpchup lbn bpqpi upggvbk vg hpivwd oicm gdp
Pligd.

Lg gdp wglig co gdvw npslnp, V wykkpwgpn gdlg xp uvqp vb payluuf mcmpbgcyw
gvmpw, gdlg vg vw yh gc yw bcx gc npsvnp xdpgdpi cyi ocim co kcqpibmpbg
xcyun pbnyip lbn xdpgdpi dvwgcif wgvuu dln l hulsp co kiplgbpww oci l
ayvpg, huplwlbg, kippbvbk ulbn sluupn Lmpivsl. Bcg pqpifgdvbk dlw eppb mlnp
hpiopsg vb 7 fpliw, bci xvuu vg ep mlnp hpiopsg vb wpqpb gvmpw 70 fpliw,
eyg epocip yw, gdvw fpli lbn epfcbn, lip kiplg hicwhpsgw oci gdp slywp co
hplsp lbn xciun oippncm.

Vg mplbw, gcc, gdlg gdp fcybk Lmpivslbw V whcjp co 7 fpliw lkc, lw xpuu lw
gdcwp xdc mvkdg ep scmvbk lucbk gdp Qvikvbvl ci Mlifulbn wdcipw gdvw bvkdg
lbn wppvbk oci gdp oviwg gvmp gdp uvkdgw co gdvw Slhvglu Svgf--gdp uvkdgw
gdlg slwg gdpvi kucx cb cyi kiplg dluuw co kcqpibmpbg lbn gdp mcbympbgw gc
gdp mpmcif co cyi kiplg mpb--vg mplbw gdcwp fcybk Lmpivslbw xvuu ovbn l
svgf co dchp vb l ulbn gdlg vw oipp.

Xp slb ep hicyn gdlg oci gdpm lbn oci yw, lw gdcwp uvkdgw lucbk gdp Hcgcmls
lip wgvuu wppb gdvw bvkdg wvkbluvbk lw gdpf dlqp oci bpliuf gxc spbgyivpw
lbn lw xp hilf Kcn gdpf luxlfw xvuu, gdlg lbcgdpi kpbpilgvcb co Lmpivslbw
dlw hicgpsgpn lbn hlwwpn cb ucqvbkuf gdvw hulsp sluupn Lmpivsl, gdvw
wdvbvbk svgf cb l dvuu, gdvw kcqpibmpbg co, ef, lbn oci gdp hpchup.

Gdlbj fcy, lbn Kcn eupww fcy.

BCGP: Gdp Hipwvnpbg whcjp lg 9:07 h.m. vb gdp Dcywp Sdlmepi co gdp Slhvgcu.
Dp xlw vbgicnyspn ef Zvm Xivkdg, Whpljpi co gdp Dcywp co Iphipwpbglgvqpw.
Gdp lnnipww xlw eiclnslwg uvqp cb blgvcbxvnp ilnvc lbn gpupqvwvcb.