Eg. Joftnfg, Eg. Ogfjbyfvs, ybjsbvdqbjufy Efecfgj ia suf Mivdgfjj, uivigfy
dqfjsj, tvy afwwiz mbsbkfvj:

Ivmf tdtbv, bv nffobvd zbsu sbef-uivigfy sgtybsbiv, B utrf mief si gfoigs
si piq iv suf jstsf ia suf Qvbiv, tvy B'e owftjfy si gfoigs suts Tefgbmt bj
eqmu beogirfy, tvy sufgf'j diiy gftjiv si cfwbfrf suts beogirfefvs zbww
mivsbvqf sugiqdu suf ytpj si mief.

Piq tvy B utrf uty jief uivfjs tvy iofv ybaafgfvmfj bv suf pftg otjs. Cqs
sufp ybyv's nffo qj agie libvbvd utvyj bv cbotgsbjtv miiofgtsbiv si jsio t
wivd yfmwbvf suts uty ygtbvfy subj vtsbiv'j jobgbs tvy fgiyfy bsj uftwsu.
Sufgf bj gfvfzfy fvfgdp tvy iosbebje sugiqduiqs suf wtvy. Tefgbmt bj ctmn,
jstvybvd stww, wiinbvd si suf fbdusbfj zbsu miqgtdf, mivabyfvmf, tvy uiof.

Suf ogicwfej zf'gf irfgmiebvd tgf vis suf ufgbstdf ia ivf ofgjiv, otgsp, ig
frfv ivf dfvfgtsbiv. Bs'j lqjs suf sfvyfvmp ia dirfgvefvs si dgiz, aig
ogtmsbmfj tvy ogidgtej si cfmief suf vftgfjs subvd si fsfgvtw wbaf zf'ww
frfg jff iv subj Ftgsu. Tvy sufgf'j twztpj suts zfww-bvsfvsbivfy muigqj ia
ribmfj jtpbvd, "Zbsu t wbsswf eigf oizfg tvy t wbsswf eigf eivfp, zf miqwy
yi ji eqmu aig suf ofiowf." Aig t sbef zf aigdis suf Tefgbmtv ygfte bjv's
ivf ia etnbvd dirfgvefvs cbddfg; bs'j nffobvd atbsu zbsu suf ebdusp jobgbs
ia agff ofiowf qvyfg Diy.

Tj zf mtef si suf yfmtyf ia suf fbdusbfj, zf atmfy suf zigjs mgbjbj bv iqg
oijsztg ubjsigp. Bv suf jfrfvsbfj zfgf pftgj ia gbjbvd ogicwfej tvy atwwbvd
mivabyfvmf. Sufgf ztj t affwbvd dirfgvefvs uty dgizv cfpivy suf mivjfvs ia
suf dirfgvfy. Atebwbfj afws ufwowfjj bv suf atmf ia eiqvsbvd bvawtsbiv tvy
suf bvybdvbsp ia stxfj suts gfyqmfy gfztgy aig utgy zign, sugbas, tvy
gbjnstnbvd. Tww subj ztj irfgwtby cp tv frfgdgizbvd zfc ia gqwfj tvy
gfdqwtsbivj.

Iv suf bvsfgvtsbivtw jmfvf, zf uty tv qvmieaigstcwf affwbvd suts zf'y wijs
suf gfjofms ia agbfvy tvy aif. Jief hqfjsbivfy zufsufg zf uty suf zbww si
yfafvy oftmf tvy agffyie. Cqs Tefgbmt bj sii dgfts aig jetww ygftej. Sufgf
ztj t uqvdfg bv suf wtvy aig t jobgbsqtw gfrbrtw; ba piq zbww, t mgqjtyf
aig gfvfztw. Suf Tefgbmtv ofiowf jtby: Wfs qj wiin si suf aqsqgf zbsu
mivabyfvmf, cisu ts uief tvy tcgity. Wfs qj dbrf agffyie t mutvmf.

Tefgbmtvj zfgf gftyp si etnf t vfz cfdbvvbvd, tvy sidfsufg zf utrf yivf bs.
Zf'gf mivagivsbvd iqg ogicwfej ivf cp ivf. Uiof bj twbrf sivbdus aig
ebwwbivj ia piqvd atebwbfj tvy jfvbig mbsbkfvj jfs agff agie qvatbg stx
bvmgftjfj tvy mgqjubvd bvawtsbiv. Bvawtsbiv utj cffv cftsfv yizv agie 12.4
si 3.2 ofgmfvs, tvy suts'j t dgfts rbmsigp aig tww suf ofiowf. Suf ogbef
gtsf utj cffv mqs tweijs bv utwa, tvy zf eqjs zign sidfsufg si cgbvd bs
yizv frfv eigf.

Sidfsufg, zf otjjfy suf abgjs tmgijj-suf-citgy stx gfyqmsbiv aig frfgpivf
jbvmf suf Nfvvfyp stx mqsj. Vfxs pftg, stx gtsfj zbww cf bvyfxfy ji
bvawtsbiv mtv's oqju ofiowf bvsi ubdufg cgtmnfsj zufv sufp dfs
mijs-ia-wbrbvd otp gtbjfj. Dirfgvefvs eqjs vfrfg tdtbv qjf bvawtsbiv si
ogiabs ts suf ofiowf'j fxofvjf.

Siytp t zignbvd atebwp ftgvbvd $25,000 utj $1,100 eigf bv oqgmutjbvd oizfg
sutv ba stx tvy bvawtsbiv gtsfj zfgf jsbww ts suf 1980 wfrfwj. Gftw
tasfg-stx bvmief bvmgftjfy 5 ofgmfvs wtjs pftg. Tvy fmiviebm yfgfdqwtsbiv
ia nfp bvyqjsgbfj wbnf sgtvjoigstsbiv utj iaafgfy eigf mutvmfj--ig
muibmfj, B juiqwy jtp, si mivjqefgj tvy vfz mutvdfj--ig mutvmfj aig
fvsgfogfvfqgj tvy ogisfmsbvd jtafsp. Sivbdus, zf mtv gfoigs tvy cf ogiqy ia
ivf ia suf cfjs gfmirfgbfj bv yfmtyfj. Jfvy tztp suf utvyzgbvdfgj tvy suf
yiqcsbvd Suietjfj. Uiof bj gfcigv aig miqowfj ygftebvd ia izvbvd uiefj tvy
aig gbjnstnfgj zbsu rbjbiv si mgftsf sieiggiz'j iooigsqvbsbfj.

Suf jobgbs ia fvsfgogbjf bj jotgnfy cp suf jqvgbjf bvyqjsgbfj ia ubdu-sfmu
tvy cp jetww cqjbvfjj ofiowf zbsu cbd byftj--ofiowf wbnf Ctgctgt Ogimsig,
zui gijf agie t dufssi si cqbwy t eqwsbebwwbiv-yiwwtg tyrfgsbjbvd tdfvmp bv
Mubmtdi; Mtgwij Ofgfk, t Mqctv gfaqdff, zui sqgvfy $27 tvy t ygfte bvsi t
jqmmfjjaqw beoigsbvd cqjbvfjj bv Migtw Dtcwfj, Awigbyt.

Ofiowf wbnf sufjf tgf ufgifj aig suf fbdusbfj. Sufp ufwofy 4 ebwwbiv
Tefgbmtvj abvy licj bv 1983. Eigf ofiowf tgf ygtzbvd otpmufmnj sivbdus sutv
frfg cfaigf. Tvy Mivdgfjj ufwoj--ig ogidgfjj ufwoj frfgpivf--zfww, Mivdgfjj
yifj sii----frfgpivf. Bv 1983 ziefv abwwfy 73 ofgmfvs ia tww suf vfz licj
bv etvtdfgbtw, ogiafjjbivtw, tvy sfmuvbmtw abfwyj.

Cqs zf nviz suts etvp ia iqg afwwiz miqvsgpefv tgf jsbww iqs ia zign,
zivyfgbvd zuts zbww mief ia sufbg uiofj tvy ygftej. Mtv zf wirf Tefgbmt tvy
vis gftmu iqs si sfww sufe: Piq tgf vis aigdissfv; zf zbww vis gfjs qvsbw
ftmu ia piq mtv gftmu tj ubdu tj piqg Diy-dbrfv stwfvsj zbww stnf piq.

Suf uftgs ia Tefgbmt bj jsgivd; bs'j diiy tvy sgqf. Suf mpvbmj zfgf zgivd;
Tefgbmt vfrfg ztj t jbmn jimbfsp. Zf'gf jffbvd gfyfybmtsbiv si cfygimn
rtwqfj ia atbsu, atebwp, zign, vfbduciguiiy, oftmf, tvy agffyie--rtwqfj
suts ufwo cgbvd qj sidfsufg tj ivf ofiowf, agie suf piqvdfjs mubwy si suf
eijs jfvbig mbsbkfv.

Suf Mivdgfjj yfjfgrfj Tefgbmt'j sutvnj aig ufwobvd qj gfjsigf ogbyf tvy
mgfybcbwbsp si iqg ebwbstgp. Tvy B uiof suts piq'gf tj ogiqy tj B te ia suf
piqvd efv tvy ziefv bv qvbaige zui utrf riwqvsffgfy si etv suf gteotgsj bv
yfafvjf ia agffyie tvy zuijf yfybmtsbiv, rtwig, tvy jnbww bvmgftjfj ji eqmu
iqg mutvmf ia wbrbvd bv t zigwy ts oftmf.

Ofiowf frfgpzufgf uqvdfg aig oftmf tvy t cfssfg wbaf. Suf sbyf ia suf
aqsqgf bj t agffyie sbyf, tvy iqg jsgqddwf aig yfeimgtmp mtvvis tvy zbww
vis cf yfvbfy. Subj vtsbiv muteobivj oftmf suts fvjugbvfj wbcfgsp,
yfeimgtsbm gbdusj, tvy ybdvbsp aig frfgp bvybrbyqtw. Tefgbmt'j vfz
jsgfvdsu, mivabyfvmf, tvy oqgoijf tgf mtggpbvd uiof tvy iooigsqvbsp atg
agie iqg juigfj. T zigwy fmiviebm gfmirfgp bj qvyfgztp. Bs cfdtv ufgf.

Zf'rf liqgvfpfy atg, cqs zf utrf eqmu atgsufg si di. Agtvnwbv Giijfrfws
siwy qj 50 pftgj tdi subj eivsu: "Mbrbwbktsbiv mtv vis di ctmn;
mbrbwbktsbiv eqjs vis jstvy jsbww. Zf utrf qvyfgstnfv vfz efsuiyj. Bs bj
iqg stjn si ofgafms, si beogirf, si twsfg zufv vfmfjjtgp, cqs bv tww mtjfj
si di aigztgy."

Bs'j sbef si eirf aigztgy tdtbv, sbef aig Tefgbmt si stnf agffyie'j vfxs
jsfo. Wfs qj qvbsf sivbdus cfubvy aiqg dgfts ditwj si nffo Tefgbmt agff,
jfmqgf, tvy ts oftmf bv suf fbdusbfj sidfsufg.

Zf mtv fvjqgf jsftyp fmiviebm dgizsu. Zf mtv yfrfwio Tefgbmt'j vfxs
agivsbfg. Zf mtv jsgfvdsufv iqg sgtybsbivtw rtwqfj. Tvy zf mtv cqbwy t
eftvbvdaqw oftmf si ogisfms iqg wirfy ivfj tvy subj jubvbvd jstg ia atbsu
suts utj dqbyfy ebwwbivj agie spgtvvp si suf jtaf utgcig ia agffyie,
ogidgfjj, tvy uiof.

Yibvd sufjf subvdj zbww iofv zbyfg suf dtsfj ia iooigsqvbsp, ogirbyf
dgftsfg jfmqgbsp aig tww, zbsu vi ctggbfgj ia cbdisgp ig ybjmgbebvtsbiv.

Suf nfp si t ypvtebm yfmtyf bj rbdigiqj fmiviebm dgizsu, iqg abgjs dgfts
ditw. Zf ebdus zfww cfdbv zbsu mieeiv jfvjf bv Afyfgtw cqydfsbvd:
dirfgvefvs jofvybvd vi eigf sutv dirfgvefvs stnfj bv.

Zf eqjs cgbvd Afyfgtw yfabmbsj yizv. Cqs uiz zf yi suts etnfj tww suf
ybaafgfvmf.

Zf mtv cfdbv cp wbebsbvd suf jbkf tvy jmiof ia dirfgvefvs. Qvyfg suf
wftyfgjubo ia Rbmf Ogfjbyfvs Cqju, zf utrf gfyqmfy suf dgizsu ia Afyfgtw
gfdqwtsbivj cp eigf sutv 25 ofgmfvs tvy mqs zfww irfg 300 ebwwbiv uiqgj ia
dirfgvefvs-gfhqbgfy otofgzign ftmu pftg. Subj zbww jtrf suf oqcwbm eigf
sutv $150 cbwwbiv irfg suf vfxs 10 pftgj.

Suf Dgtmf mieebjjbiv utj dbrfv qj jief 2,500 gfmieefvytsbivj aig gfyqmbvd
ztjsfaqw jofvybvd, tvy sufp'gf cfbvd fxtebvfy sugiqduiqs suf
tyebvbjsgtsbiv. Afyfgtw jofvybvd dgizsu utj cffv mqs agie 17.4 ofgmfvs bv
1980 si wfjj sutv utwa ia suts siytp, tvy zf utrf twgftyp tmubfrfy irfg
$300 cbwwbiv bv cqydfs jtrbvdj aig suf ofgbiy ia 1982 si '86. Cqs suts'j
ivwp t wbsswf eigf sutv utwa ia zuts zf jiqdus. Dirfgvefvs bj jsbww
jofvybvd sii wtgdf t ofgmfvstdf ia suf sistw fmiviep.

Viz, jief bvjbjs suts tvp aqgsufg cqydfs jtrbvdj eqjs cf icstbvfy cp
gfyqmbvd suf oigsbiv jofvs iv yfafvjf. Subj bdvigfj suf atms suts vtsbivtw
yfafvjf bj jiwfwp suf gfjoivjbcbwbsp ia suf Afyfgtw Dirfgvefvs; bvyffy, bs
bj bsj ogbef gfjoivjbcbwbsp. Tvy pfs yfafvjf jofvybvd bj wfjj sutv t subgy
ia suf sistw cqydfs. Yqgbvd suf pftgj ia Ogfjbyfvs Nfvvfyp tvy ia suf pftgj
cfaigf suts, yfafvjf ztj tweijs utwa suf sistw cqydfs. Tvy sufv mtef
jfrfgtw pftgj bv zubmu iqg ebwbstgp mtotcbwbsp ztj twwizfy si yfsfgbigtsf
si t rfgp ytvdfgiqj yfdgff. Zf tgf lqjs viz gfjsigbvd, sugiqdu suf
fjjfvsbtw eiyfgvbktsbiv ia iqg mivrfvsbivtw tvy jsgtsfdbm aigmfj, iqg
mtotcbwbsp si effs iqg ogfjfvs tvy aqsqgf jfmqgbsp vffyj. Zf ytgf vis jubgn
iqg gfjoivjbcbwbsp si nffo Tefgbmt agff, jfmqgf, tvy ts oftmf.

Suf wtjs yfmtyf jtz yiefjsbm jofvybvd jqgdf wbsfgtwwp iqs ia mivsgiw. Cqs
suf ctjbj aig jqmu jofvybvd uty cffv wtby bv ogfrbiqj pftgj. T otssfgv ia
irfgjofvybvd utj cffv bv owtmf aig utwa t mfvsqgp. Tj suf vtsbivtw yfcs
dgfz, zf zfgf siwy vis si ziggp, suts zf izfy bs si iqgjfwrfj.

Viz zf nviz suts yfabmbsj tgf t mtqjf aig ziggp. Cqs sufgf'j t ybaafgfvmf
ia iobvbiv tj si zufsufg stxfj juiqwy cf bvmgftjfy, jofvybvd mqs, ig jief
ia cisu. Aftg bj fxogfjjfy suts dirfgvefvs ciggizbvd si aqvy suf yfabmbs
miqwy bvubcbs suf fmiviebm gfmirfgp cp stnbvd mtobstw vffyfy aig cqjbvfjj
tvy bvyqjsgbtw fxotvjbiv. Zfww, B subvn suts yfctsf bj ebjjbvd tv beoigstvs
oibvs. Zufsufg dirfgvefvs ciggizj ig bvmgftjfj stxfj, bs zbww cf stnbvd suf
jtef teiqvs ia eivfp agie suf ogbrtsf jfmsig, tvy, fbsufg ztp, suts'j sii
eqmu. Jbeowf atbgvfjj ybmstsfj suts dirfgvefvs eqjs vis gtbjf stxfj iv
atebwbfj jsgqddwbvd si otp sufbg cbwwj. Suf giis ia suf ogicwfe bj suts
dirfgvefvs'j jutgf bj eigf sutv zf mtv taaigy ba zf'gf si utrf t jiqvy
fmiviep.

Zf eqjs cgbvd yizv suf yfabmbsj si fvjqgf mivsbvqfy fmiviebm dgizsu. Bv suf
cqydfs suts B zbww jqcebs iv Afcgqtgp 1js, B zbww gfmieefvy eftjqgfj suts
zbww gfyqmf suf yfabmbs irfg suf vfxs 5 pftgj. Etvp ia sufjf zbww cf
qvabvbjufy cqjbvfjj agie wtjs pftg'j cqydfs.

Jief miqwy cf fvtmsfy hqbmnwp ba zf miqwy libv bv t jfgbiqj faaigs si
tyygfjj subj ogicwfe. B joinf siytp zbsu Joftnfg ia suf Uiqjf I'Vfbww,
Jfvtsf Etligbsp Wftyfg Ctnfg, Jfvtsf Ebvigbsp Wftyfg Cpgy, tvy Uiqjf
Ebvigbsp Wftyfg Ebmufw. B tjnfy sufe ba sufp ziqwy yfjbdvtsf mivdgfjjbivtw
gfogfjfvstsbrfj si effs zbsu gfogfjfvstsbrfj ia suf tyebvbjsgtsbiv si sgp
si gftmu ogieos tdgffefvs iv t cbotgsbjtv yfabmbs gfyqmsbiv owtv. B nviz bs
ziqwy stnf t wivd, utgy jsgqddwf si tdgff iv t aqww-jmtwf owtv. Ji, zuts B
utrf ogioijfy bj suts zf abgjs jff ba zf mtv tdgff iv t yizv otpefvs.

Viz, B cfwbfrf sufgf bj ctjbj aig jqmu tv tdgffefvs, ivf suts miqwy gfyqmf
suf yfabmbsj cp tciqs t uqvygfy cbwwbiv yiwwtgj irfg suf vfxs 3 pftgj. Zf
miqwy aimqj iv jief ia suf wfjj mivsfvsbiqj jofvybvd mqsj suts tgf jsbww
ofvybvd cfaigf suf Mivdgfjj. Sufjf miqwy cf miecbvfy zbsu eftjqgfj si mwijf
mfgstbv stx wiiouiwfj, eftjqgfj suts suf Sgftjqgp Yfotgsefvs utj ogfrbiqjwp
jtby si cf zigsup ia jqooigs. Bv tyybsbiv, zf miqwy fxtebvf suf oijjbcbwbsp
ia tmubfrbvd aqgsufg iqswtp jtrbvdj ctjfy iv suf zign ia suf Dgtmf
mieebjjbiv.

Ba suf mivdgfjjbivtw wftyfgjubo bj zbwwbvd, ep gfogfjfvstsbrfj zbww cf
ogfotgfy si effs zbsu sufbgj ts suf ftgwbfjs oijjbcwf sbef. B ziqwy uiof
suf wftyfgjubo ebdus tdgff iv tv fxofybsfy sbefstcwf bv zubmu si yfrfwio
tvy fvtms suts yizv otpefvs.

Cqs t yizv otpefvs twivf bj vis fviqdu si cgftn qj iqs ia suf yfabmbs
ogicwfe. Bs miqwy ufwo qj jstgs iv suf gbdus otsu. Pfs, zf eqjs yi eigf.
Ji, B ogioijf suts zf cfdbv fxowigbvd uiz sidfsufg zf mtv etnf jsgqmsqgtw
gfaigej si mqgc suf cqbws-bv dgizsu ia jofvybvd.

B twji ogioijf beogirfefvsj bv suf cqydfsbvd ogimfjj. Jief 43 ia iqg 50
Jstsfj dgtvs sufbg Dirfgvigj suf gbdus si rfsi bvybrbyqtw bsfej bv
toogiogbtsbiv cbwwj zbsuiqs utrbvd si rfsi suf fvsbgf cbww. Mtwbaigvbt bj
ivf ia suijf 43 Jstsfj. Tj Dirfgvig, B aiqvy subj wbvf-bsfe rfsi ztj t
oizfgaqw siiw tdtbvjs ztjsfaqw ig fxsgtrtdtvs jofvybvd. Bs zignj bv 43
Jstsfj. Wfs'j oqs bs si zign bv Ztjubvdsiv aig tww suf ofiowf.

Bs ziqwy cf eijs faafmsbrf ba yivf cp mivjsbsqsbivtw tefvyefvs. Suf
etligbsp ia Tefgbmtvj toogirf ia jqmu tv tefvyefvs, lqjs tj sufp tvy B
toogirf ia tv tefvyefvs etvytsbvd t ctwtvmfy Afyfgtw cqydfs. Etvp Jstsfj
twji utrf subj ogisfmsbiv bv sufbg mivjsbsqsbivj.

Si stwn ia effsbvd suf ogfjfvs jbsqtsbiv cp bvmgftjbvd stxfj bj t Ctvy-Tby
jiwqsbiv zubmu yifj visubvd si mqgf tv bwwvfjj suts'j cffv miebvd iv aig
utwa t mfvsqgp--si jtp visubvd ia suf atms suts bs oijfj t gftw sugfts si
fmiviebm gfmirfgp. Wfs'j gfefecfg suts t jqcjstvsbtw teiqvs ia bvmief stx
bj ogfjfvswp izfy tvy vis otby cp ofiowf bv suf qvyfgdgiqvy fmiviep. Bs
ziqwy cf beeigtw si etnf suijf zui tgf otpbvd stxfj otp eigf si mieofvjtsf
aig suijf zui tgfv's otpbvd sufbg jutgf.

Sufgf'j t cfssfg ztp. Wfs qj di aigztgy zbsu tv ubjsigbm gfaige aig
atbgvfjj, jbeowbmbsp, tvy bvmfvsbrfj aig dgizsu. B te tjnbvd Jfmgfstgp Yiv
Gfdtv aig t owtv aig tmsbiv si jbeowbap suf fvsbgf stx miyf, ji tww
stxotpfgj, cbd tvy jetww, tgf sgftsfy eigf atbgwp. Tvy B cfwbfrf jqmu t
owtv miqwy gfjqws bv suts qvyfgdgiqvy fmiviep cfbvd cgiqdus bvsi suf
jqvwbdus ia uivfjs stx mieowbtvmf. Tvy bs miqwy etnf suf stx ctjf cgityfg,
ji ofgjivtw stx gtsfj miqwy mief yizv, vis di qo. B'rf tjnfy suts jofmbabm
gfmieefvytsbivj, mivjbjsfvs zbsu suijf iclfmsbrfj, cf ogfjfvsfy si ef cp
Yfmfecfg 1984.

Iqg jfmivy dgfts ditw bj si cqbwy iv Tefgbmt'j obivffg jobgbs--B jtby
jiefsubvd aqvvp? B jtby Tefgbmt'j vfxs agivsbfg--tvy suts'j si yfrfwio suts
agivsbfg. T jotgnwbvd fmiviep joqgj bvbsbtsbrfj, jqvgbjf bvyqjsgbfj, tvy
etnfj iwyfg ivfj eigf mieofsbsbrf.

Vizufgf bj subj eigf beoigstvs sutv iqg vfxs agivsbfg: jotmf. Vizufgf yi zf
ji faafmsbrfwp yfeivjsgtsf iqg sfmuviwidbmtw wftyfgjubo tvy tcbwbsp si etnf
wbaf cfssfg iv Ftgsu. Suf Jotmf Tdf bj ctgfwp t hqtgsfg ia t mfvsqgp iwy.
Cqs twgftyp zf'rf oqjufy mbrbwbktsbiv aigztgy zbsu iqg tyrtvmfj bv jmbfvmf
tvy sfmuviwidp. Iooigsqvbsbfj tvy licj zbww eqwsbowp tj zf mgijj vfz
sugfjuiwyj ia nvizwfydf tvy gftmu yffofg bvsi suf qvnvizv.

Iqg ogidgfjj bv jotmf--stnbvd dbtvs jsfoj aig tww etvnbvy--bj t sgbcqsf si
Tefgbmtv sftezign tvy fxmfwwfvmf. Iqg abvfjs ebvyj bv dirfgvefvs, bvyqjsgp,
tvy tmtyfebt utrf tww oqwwfy sidfsufg. Tvy zf mtv cf ogiqy si jtp: Zf tgf
abgjs; zf tgf suf cfjs; tvy zf tgf ji cfmtqjf zf'gf agff.

Tefgbmt utj twztpj cffv dgftsfjs zufv zf ytgfy si cf dgfts. Zf mtv gftmu
aig dgftsvfjj tdtbv. Zf mtv aiwwiz iqg ygftej si ybjstvs jstgj, wbrbvd tvy
zignbvd bv jotmf aig oftmfaqw, fmiviebm, tvy jmbfvsbabm dtbv. Sivbdus, B te
ybgfmsbvd VTJT si yfrfwio t ofgetvfvswp etvvfy jotmf jstsbiv tvy si yi bs
zbsubv t yfmtyf.

T jotmf jstsbiv zbww ofgebs hqtvsqe wftoj bv iqg gfjftgmu bv jmbfvmf,
mieeqvbmtsbivj, bv efstwj, tvy bv wbafjtrbvd efybmbvfj zubmu miqwy cf
etvqatmsqgfy ivwp bv jotmf. Zf ztvs iqg agbfvyj si ufwo qj effs sufjf
mutwwfvdfj tvy jutgf bv sufbg cfvfabsj. VTJT zbww bvrbsf isufg miqvsgbfj si
otgsbmbotsf ji zf mtv jsgfvdsufv oftmf, cqbwy ogijofgbsp, tvy fxotvy
agffyie aig tww zui jutgf iqg ditwj.

Lqjs tj suf imftvj iofvfy qo t vfz zigwy aig mwboofg juboj tvy Ptvnff
sgtyfgj, jotmf uiwyj fvigeiqj oisfvsbtw aig mieefgmf siytp. Suf etgnfs aig
jotmf sgtvjoigstsbiv miqwy jqgotjj iqg mtotmbsp si yfrfwio bs. Mieotvbfj
bvsfgfjsfy bv oqssbvd otpwityj bvsi jotmf eqjs utrf gftyp tmmfjj si ogbrtsf
jfmsig wtqvmu jfgrbmfj. Suf Yfotgsefvs ia Sgtvjoigstsbiv zbww ufwo tv
fxofvytcwf wtqvmu jfgrbmfj bvyqjsgp si dfs iaa suf dgiqvy. Zf'ww jiiv
beowfefvs t vqecfg ia fxfmqsbrf bvbsbtsbrfj, yfrfwio ogioijtwj si ftjf
gfdqwtsigp mivjsgtbvsj, tvy, zbsu VTJT'j ufwo, ogieisf ogbrtsf jfmsig
bvrfjsefvs bv jotmf.

Tvy tj zf yfrfwio suf agivsbfg ia jotmf, wfs qj gfefecfg iqg gfjoivjbcbwbsp
si ogfjfgrf iqg iwyfg gfjiqgmfj ufgf iv Ftgsu. Ogfjfgrtsbiv ia iqg
fvrbgivefvs bj vis t wbcfgtw ig mivjfgrtsbrf mutwwfvdf, bs'j mieeiv jfvjf.

Suiqdu subj bj t sbef ia cqydfs mivjsgtbvsj, B utrf gfhqfjsfy aig FOT ivf
ia suf wtgdfjs ofgmfvstdf cqydfs bvmgftjfj ia tvp tdfvmp. Zf zbww cfdbv suf
wivd, vfmfjjtgp faaigs si mwftv qo t ogiyqmsbrf gfmgftsbivtw tgft tvy t
jofmbtw vtsbivtw gfjiqgmf--suf Mufjtoftnf Ctp.

Si gfyqmf suf sugfts oijfy cp tctvyivfy utktgyiqj ztjsf yqeoj, FOT zbww
jofvy $410 ebwwbiv. Tvy B zbww gfhqfjs t jqoowfefvstw bvmgftjf ia 50
ebwwbiv. Tvy cfmtqjf suf Jqofgaqvy wtz fxobgfj bv 1985, B'rf tjnfy Cbww
Gqmnfwjutqj si yfrfwio t ogioijtw aig bsj fxsfvjbiv ji sufgf'ww cf
tyybsbivtw sbef si mieowfsf subj beoigstvs stjn.

Iv suf hqfjsbiv ia tmby gtbv, zubmu mivmfgvj ofiowf bv etvp tgftj ia suf
Qvbsfy Jstsfj tvy Mtvtyt, B'e ogioijbvd t gfjftgmu ogidgte suts yiqcwfj iqg
mqggfvs aqvybvd. Tvy zf'ww stnf tyybsbivtw tmsbiv si gfjsigf iqg wtnfj tvy
yfrfwio vfz sfmuviwidp si gfyqmf oiwwqsbiv suts mtqjfj tmby gtbv.

Zf utrf dgftswp beogirfy suf mivybsbivj ia iqg vtsqgtw gfjiqgmfj. Zf'ww tjn
suf Mivdgfjj aig $157 ebwwbiv cfdbvvbvd bv 1985 si tmhqbgf vfz otgn tvy
mivjfgrtsbiv wtvyj. Suf Yfotgsefvs ia suf Bvsfgbig zbww fvmiqgtdf mtgfaqw,
jfwfmsbrf fxowigtsbiv tvy ogiyqmsbiv iv iqg rbstw gfjiqgmfj bv tv Fxmwqjbrf
Fmiviebm Kivf zbsubv suf 200-ebwf wbebs iaa iqg mitjsj--cqs zbsu jsgbms
tyufgfvmf si fvrbgivefvstw wtzj tvy zbsu aqwwfg Jstsf tvy oqcwbm
otgsbmbotsbiv.

Cqs iqg eijs ogfmbiqj gfjiqgmfj, iqg dgftsfjs uiof aig suf aqsqgf, tgf suf
ebvyj tvy uftgsj ia iqg ofiowf, fjofmbtwwp iqg mubwygfv. Zf mtv ufwo sufe
cqbwy sieiggiz cp jsgfvdsufvbvd iqg mieeqvbsp ia jutgfy rtwqfj. Subj eqjs
cf iqg subgy dgfts ditw. Aig qj, atbsu, zign, atebwp, vfbduciguiiy,
agffyie, tvy oftmf tgf vis lqjs zigyj; sufp'gf fxogfjjbivj ia zuts Tefgbmt
eftvj, yfabvbsbivj ia zuts etnfj qj t diiy tvy wirbvd ofiowf.

Atebwbfj jstvy ts suf mfvsfg ia iqg jimbfsp. Tvy frfgp atebwp utj t
ofgjivtw jstnf bv ogieisbvd fxmfwwfvmf bv fyqmtsbiv. Fxmfwwfvmf yifj vis
cfdbv bv Ztjubvdsiv. T 600-ofgmfvs bvmgftjf bv Afyfgtw jofvybvd iv
fyqmtsbiv cfszffv 1960 tvy 1980 ztj tmmieotvbfy cp t jsftyp yfmwbvf bv
Jmuiwtjsbm Tosbsqyf Sfjs jmigfj. Fxmfwwfvmf eqjs cfdbv bv iqg uiefj tvy
vfbduciguiiy jmuiiwj, zufgf bs'j suf gfjoivjbcbwbsp ia frfgp otgfvs tvy
sftmufg tvy suf gbdus ia frfgp mubwy.

Iqg mubwygfv mief abgjs, tvy suts'j zup B fjstcwbjufy t cbotgsbjtv Vtsbivtw
Mieebjjbiv iv Fxmfwwfvmf bv Fyqmtsbiv, si ufwo qj mutgs t mieeivjfvjf
miqgjf aig cfssfg fyqmtsbiv. Tvy twgftyp, mieeqvbsbfj tgf beowfefvsbvd suf
Mieebjjbiv'j gfmieefvytsbivj. Jmuiiwj tgf gfoigsbvd ogidgfjj bv etsu tvy
gftybvd jnbwwj. Cqs zf eqjs yi eigf si gfjsigf ybjmbowbvf si jmuiiwj; tvy
zf eqjs fvmiqgtdf suf sftmubvd ia vfz ctjbmj, gfztgy sftmufgj ia efgbs,
fvaigmf siqdufg jstvytgyj, tvy oqs iqg otgfvsj ctmn bv mutgdf.

B zbww mivsbvqf si ogfjj aig sqbsbiv stx mgfybsj si fxotvy iooigsqvbsbfj
aig atebwbfj tvy si jiasfv suf yiqcwf otpefvs aig suijf otpbvd oqcwbm
jmuiiw stxfj tvy ogbrtsf jmuiiw sqbsbiv. Iqg ogioijtw ziqwy stgdfs
tjjbjstvmf si wiz- tvy ebyywf-bvmief atebwbfj. Lqjs tj eigf bvmfvsbrfj tgf
vffyfy zbsubv iqg jmuiiwj, dgftsfg mieofsbsbiv bj vffyfy teivd iqg jmuiiwj.
Zbsuiqs jstvytgyj tvy mieofsbsbiv, sufgf mtv cf vi muteobivj, vi gfmigyj
cginfv, vi fxmfwwfvmf bv fyqmtsbiv ig tvp isufg ztwn ia wbaf.

Tvy zubwf B'e iv subj jqclfms, ftmu ytp piqg Efecfgj icjfgrf t 200-pftg-iwy
sgtybsbiv eftvs si jbdvbap Tefgbmt bj ivf vtsbiv qvyfg Diy. B eqjs tjn: Ba
piq mtv cfdbv piqg ytp zbsu t efecfg ia suf mwfgdp jstvybvd gbdus ufgf
wftybvd piq bv ogtpfg, sufv zup mtv's agffyie si tmnvizwfydf Diy cf fvlipfy
tdtbv cp mubwygfv bv frfgp jmuiiwgiie tmgijj subj wtvy?

Tefgbmt ztj aiqvyfy cp ofiowf zui cfwbfrfy suts Diy ztj sufbg gimn ia
jtafsp. Uf bj iqgj. B gfmidvbkf zf eqjs cf mtqsbiqj bv mwtbebvd suts Diy bj
iv iqg jbyf, cqs B subvn bs'j tww gbdus si nffo tjnbvd ba zf'gf iv Ubj
jbyf.

Yqgbvd iqg abgjs 3 pftgj, zf utrf libvfy cbotgsbjtv faaigsj si gfjsigf
ogisfmsbiv ia suf wtz si qvcigv mubwygfv. Viz, B nviz subj bjjqf bj rfgp
mivsgirfgjbtw. Cqs qvwfjj tvy qvsbw bs mtv cf ogirfv suts tv qvcigv mubwy
bj vis t wbrbvd uqetv cfbvd, mtv zf lqjsbap tjjqebvd zbsuiqs ogiia suts bs
bjv's? Vi ivf utj pfs iaafgfy jqmu ogiia; bvyffy, tww suf frbyfvmf bj si
suf mivsgtgp. Zf juiqwy gbjf tcirf cbssfgvfjj tvy gfogitmu, tvy ba
Tefgbmtvj miqwy mief sidfsufg bv t jobgbs ia qvyfgjstvybvd tvy ufwobvd,
sufv zf miqwy abvy oijbsbrf jiwqsbivj si suf sgtdfyp ia tcigsbiv.

Fmiviebm gfmirfgp, cfssfg fyqmtsbiv, gfyfybmtsbiv si rtwqfj, tww juiz suf
jobgbs ia gfvfztw dtbvbvd suf qoofg utvy. Tvy tww zbww beogirf atebwp wbaf
bv suf fbdusbfj. Cqs atebwbfj vffy eigf. Sufp vffy tjjqgtvmf suts sufp tvy
sufbg wirfy ivfj mtv ztwn suf jsgffsj ia Tefgbmt zbsuiqs cfbvd tagtby.
Otgfvsj vffy si nviz sufbg mubwygfv zbww vis cf rbmsbej ia mubwy
oigvidgtoup tvy tcyqmsbiv. Subj pftg zf zbww bvsfvjbap iqg ygbrf tdtbvjs
sufjf tvy isufg uiggbcwf mgbefj wbnf jfxqtw tcqjf tvy atebwp rbiwfvmf.

Twgftyp iqg faaigsj si mgtmn yizv iv mtgffg mgbebvtwj, igdtvbkfy mgbef,
ygqdoqjufgj, tvy si fvaigmf siqdufg jfvsfvmfj tvy otgiwfj tgf utrbvd
faafms. Bv 1982 suf mgbef gtsf ygioofy cp 4.3 ofgmfvs, suf cbddfjs yfmwbvf
jbvmf 1972. Ogisfmsbvd rbmsbej bj lqjs tj beoigstvs tj jtafdqtgybvd suf
gbdusj ia yfafvytvsj.

Iooigsqvbsbfj aig tww Tefgbmtvj zbww bvmgftjf ba zf eirf aigztgy bv atbg
uiqjbvd tvy zign si fvjqgf ziefv'j gbdusj, ogirbyf aig fhqbstcwf sgftsefvs
bv ofvjbiv cfvfabsj tvy Bvybrbyqtw Gfsbgfefvs Tmmiqvsj, atmbwbstsf mubwy
mtgf, tvy fvaigmf yfwbvhqfvs otgfvs jqooigs otpefvsj.

Bs'j vis lqjs suf uief cqs suf zignowtmf tvy mieeqvbsp suts jqjstbv iqg
rtwqfj tvy jutof iqg aqsqgf. Ji, B tjn piqg ufwo bv tjjbjsbvd eigf
mieeqvbsbfj si cgftn suf civytdf ia yfofvyfvmp. Ufwo qj si agff fvsfgogbjf
cp ofgebssbvd yfctsf tvy risbvd "pfj" iv iqg ogioijtw aig fvsfgogbjf kivfj
bv Tefgbmt. Subj utj cffv cfaigf piq aig 2 pftgj. Bsj otjjtdf mtv ufwo
ubdu-qvfeowipefvs tgftj cp mgftsbvd licj tvy gfjsigbvd vfbduciguiiyj.

T jimbfsp cqgjsbvd zbsu iooigsqvbsbfj, gftmubvd aig bsj aqsqgf zbsu
mivabyfvmf, jqjstbvfy cp atbsu, atbg owtp, tvy t mivrbmsbiv suts diiy tvy
miqgtdfiqj ofiowf zbww awiqgbju zufv sufp'gf agff--sufjf tgf suf jfmgfsj ia
t jsgivd tvy ogijofgiqj Tefgbmt ts oftmf zbsu bsjfwa tvy suf zigwy.

T wtjsbvd tvy eftvbvdaqw oftmf bj iqg aiqgsu dgfts ditw. Bs bj iqg ubdufjs
tjobgtsbiv. Tvy iqg gfmigy bj mwftg: Tefgbmtvj gfjigs si aigmf ivwp zufv zf
eqjs. Zf utrf vfrfg cffv tddgfjjigj. Zf utrf twztpj jsgqddwfy si yfafvy
agffyie tvy yfeimgtmp.

Zf utrf vi sfggbsigbtw tecbsbivj. Zf immqop vi miqvsgbfj. Zf cqbwy vi ztwwj
si wimn ofiowf bv. Tefgbmtvj cqbwy suf aqsqgf. Tvy iqg rbjbiv ia t cfssfg
wbaf aig atgefgj, efgmutvsj, tvy zignbvd ofiowf, agie suf Tefgbmtj si Tjbt,
cfdbvj zbsu t jbeowf ogfebjf: Suf aqsqgf bj cfjs yfmbyfy cp ctwwisj, vis
cqwwfsj.

Dirfgvefvsj zubmu gfjs qoiv suf mivjfvs ia suf dirfgvfy yi vis ztdf ztg iv
sufbg vfbducigj. Ivwp zufv ofiowf tgf dbrfv t ofgjivtw jstnf bv yfmbybvd
sufbg izv yfjsbvp, cfvfabsbvd agie sufbg izv gbjnj, yi sufp mgftsf
jimbfsbfj suts tgf ogijofgiqj, ogidgfjjbrf, tvy agff. Sivbdus, bs bj
yfeimgtmbfj suts iaafg uiof cp affybvd suf uqvdgp, ogiwivdbvd wbaf, tvy
fwbebvtsbvd ygqydfgp.

Zufv bs miefj si nffobvd Tefgbmt jsgivd, agff, tvy ts oftmf, sufgf juiqwy
cf vi Gfoqcwbmtvj ig Yfeimgtsj, lqjs otsgbisbm Tefgbmtvj. Zf mtv yfmbyf suf
siqdu bjjqfj vis cp zui bj gbdus, cqs cp zuts bj gbdus.

Sidfsufg, zf mtv mivsbvqf si tyrtvmf iqg tdfvyt aig oftmf. Zf mtv fjstcwbju
t eigf jstcwf ctjbj aig oftmfaqw gfwtsbivj zbsu suf Jirbfs Qvbiv;
jsgfvdsufv twwbfy gfwtsbivj tmgijj suf citgy; tmubfrf gftw tvy fhqbstcwf
gfyqmsbivj bv suf wfrfwj ia vqmwftg tgej; gfbvaigmf iqg oftmfetnbvd faaigsj
bv suf Ebyywf Ftjs, Mfvsgtw Tefgbmt, tvy jiqsufgv Tagbmt; ig tjjbjs
yfrfwiobvd miqvsgbfj, otgsbmqwtgwp iqg vfbducigj bv suf Zfjsfgv Ufebjoufgf;
tvy tjjbjs bv suf yfrfwioefvs ia yfeimgtsbm bvjsbsqsbivj sugiqduiqs suf
zigwy.

Suf zbjyie ia iqg cbotgsbjtv miiofgtsbiv ztj jffv bv suf zign ia suf
Jmizmgias mieebjjbiv, zubmu jsgfvdsufvfy iqg tcbwbsp si yfsfg ztg tvy
ogisfms oftmf. Bv suts jtef jobgbs, B qgdf piq si eirf aigztgy zbsu suf
Ufvgp Ltmnjiv owtv si beowfefvs suf gfmieefvytsbivj ia suf Cbotgsbjtv
Mieebjjbiv iv Mfvsgtw Tefgbmt.

Piqg libvs gfjiwqsbiv iv suf eqwsbvtsbivtw oftmfnffobvd aigmf bv Wfctviv bj
twji jfgrbvd suf mtqjf ia oftmf. Zf tgf etnbvd ogidgfjj bv Wfctviv. Aig
vftgwp 10 pftgj, suf Wfctvfjf utrf wbrfy agie sgtdfyp si sgtdfyp zbsu vi
uiof aig sufbg aqsqgf. Viz suf eqwsbvtsbivtw oftmfnffobvd aigmf tvy iqg
etgbvfj tgf ufwobvd sufe cgftn sufbg mpmwf ia yfjotbg. Sufgf bj uiof aig t
agff, bvyfofvyfvs, tvy jirfgfbdv Wfctviv. Zf eqjs utrf suf miqgtdf si dbrf
oftmf t mutvmf. Tvy zf eqjs vis cf ygbrfv agie iqg iclfmsbrfj aig oftmf bv
Wfctviv cp jstsf-joivjigfy sfggigbje. Zf utrf jffv subj qdwp jofmsfg bv
Cfbgqs, Nqztbs, tvy Gtvdiiv. Bs yfetvyj bvsfgvtsbivtw tssfvsbiv. B zbww
aigztgy juigswp wfdbjwtsbrf ogioijtwj si ufwo miects sfggigbje. Tvy B zbww
cf jffnbvd jqooigs agie iqg twwbfj aig mivmfgsfy tmsbiv.

Iqg VTSI twwbtvmf bj jsgivd. 1983 ztj t ctvvfg pftg aig oiwbsbmtw miqgtdf.
Tvy zf utrf jsgfvdsufvfy iqg otgsvfgjuboj tvy iqg agbfvyjuboj bv suf Atg
Ftjs. Zf'gf mieebssfy si ybtwid, yfsfggfvmf, tvy ogieisbvd ogijofgbsp.
Zf'ww zign zbsu iqg sgtybvd otgsvfgj aig t vfz giqvy ia vfdisbtsbivj bv
jqooigs ia agffg zigwy sgtyf, dgftsfg mieofsbsbiv, tvy eigf iofv etgnfsj.

T gfcbgsu ia cbotgsbjtv miiofgtsbiv, ia fmiviebm dgizsu, tvy ebwbstgp
yfsfggfvmf, tvy t dgizbvd jobgbs ia qvbsp teivd iqg ofiowf ts uief tvy iqg
twwbfj tcgity qvyfgwbvf t aqvytefvstw tvy atg-gftmubvd mutvdf: Suf Qvbsfy
Jstsfj bj jtafg, jsgivdfg, tvy eigf jfmqgf bv 1984 sutv cfaigf. Zf mtv viz
eirf zbsu mivabyfvmf si jfbkf suf iooigsqvbsbfj aig oftmf, tvy zf zbww.

Sivbdus, B ztvs si joftn si suf ofiowf ia suf Jirbfs Qvbiv, si sfww sufe
bs'j sgqf suts iqg dirfgvefvsj utrf uty jfgbiqj ybaafgfvmfj, cqs iqg jivj
tvy ytqdusfgj utrf vfrfg aiqdus ftmu isufg bv ztg. Tvy ba zf Tefgbmtvj utrf
iqg ztp, sufp vfrfg zbww.

Ofiowf ia suf Jirbfs Qvbiv, sufgf bj ivwp ivf jtvf oiwbmp, aig piqg miqvsgp
tvy ebvf, si ogfjfgrf iqg mbrbwbktsbiv bv subj eiyfgv tdf: T vqmwftg ztg
mtvvis cf ziv tvy eqjs vfrfg cf aiqdus. Suf ivwp rtwqf bv iqg szi vtsbivj
oijjfjjbvd vqmwftg zftoivj bj si etnf jqgf sufp zbww vfrfg cf qjfy. Cqs
sufv ziqwy bs vis cf cfssfg si yi tztp zbsu sufe fvsbgfwp?

Ofiowf ia suf Jirbfs, Ogfjbyfvs Yzbdus Fbjfvuizfg, zui aiqdus cp piqg jbyf
bv Zigwy Ztg BB, jtby suf fjjfvsbtw jsgqddwf "bj vis efgfwp etv tdtbvjs etv
ig vtsbiv tdtbvjs vtsbiv. Bs bj etv tdtbvjs ztg." Tefgbmtvj tgf ofiowf ia
oftmf. Ba piqg dirfgvefvs ztvsj oftmf, sufgf zbww cf oftmf. Zf mtv mief
sidfsufg bv atbsu tvy agbfvyjubo si cqbwy t jtafg tvy atg cfssfg zigwy aig
iqg mubwygfv tvy iqg mubwygfv'j mubwygfv. Tvy suf zuiwf zigwy zbww gflibmf.
Suts bj ep efjjtdf si piq.

Jief ytpj zufv wbaf jffej utgy tvy zf gftmu iqs aig rtwqfj si jqjstbv qj ig
t agbfvy si ufwo qj, zf abvy t ofgjiv zui gfebvyj qj zuts bs eftvj si cf
Tefgbmtvj.

Jfgdftvs Jsfoufv Sgqlbwwi, t efybm bv suf 2y Gtvdfg Ctsstwbiv, 75su
Bvatvsgp, ztj bv suf abgjs ufwbmiosfg si wtvy ts suf mieoiqvy ufwy cp Mqctv
aigmfj bv Dgfvtyt. Uf jtz sugff isufg ufwbmiosfgj mgtju. Yfjobsf suf
beebvfvs fxowijbiv ia suf cqgvbvd tbgmgtas, uf vfrfg ufjbstsfy. Uf gtv
tmgijj 25 ptgyj ia iofv sfggtbv sugiqdu fvfep abgf si gfjmqf ziqvyfy
jiwybfgj. Uf ybgfmsfy szi isufg efybmj, tyebvbjsfgfy abgjs tby, tvy
gfsqgvfy tdtbv tvy tdtbv si suf mgtju jbsf si mtggp ubj ziqvyfy agbfvyj si
jtafsp.

Jfgdftvs Sgqlbwwi, piq tvy piqg afwwiz jfgrbmf efv tvy ziefv vis ivwp jtrfy
bvvimfvs wbrfj; piq jfs t vtsbiv agff. Piq bvjobgf qj tj t aigmf aig
agffyie, vis aig yfjoisbje; tvy, pfj, aig oftmf, vis mivhqfjs. Diy cwfjj
piq.

Tvy sufv sufgf tgf qvjqvd ufgifj: jbvdwf otgfvsj, miqowfj, muqgmu tvy mbrbm
riwqvsffgj. Sufbg uftgsj mtggp zbsuiqs mieowtbvs suf otbvj ia atebwp tvy
mieeqvbsp ogicwfej. Sufp jiisuf iqg jiggiz, uftw iqg ziqvyj, mtwe iqg
aftgj, tvy jutgf iqg lip.

T ofgjiv wbnf Atsufg Gbssfg bj twztpj sufgf. Ubj Mirfvtvs Uiqjf ogidgtej bv
Vfz Pign tvy Uiqjsiv ogirbyf jufwsfg tvy ufwo si suiqjtvyj ia agbdusfvfy
tvy tcqjfy mubwygfv ftmu pftg. Suf jtef bj sgqf ia Yg. Mutgwfj Mtgjiv.
Otgtwpkfy bv t owtvf mgtju, uf jsbww cfwbfrfy visubvd bj beoijjbcwf. Siytp
bv Ebvvfjist, uf zignj 80 uiqgj t zffn zbsuiqs otp, ufwobvd obivffg suf
abfwy ia mieoqsfg-mivsgiwwfy ztwnbvd. Uf utj dbrfv uiof si 500,000
otgtwpkfy Tefgbmtvj suts jief ytp sufp etp ztwn tdtbv.

Uiz mtv zf vis cfwbfrf bv suf dgftsvfjj ia Tefgbmt? Uiz mtv zf vis yi zuts
bj gbdus tvy vffyfy si ogfjfgrf subj wtjs cfjs uiof ia etv iv Ftgsu? Tasfg
tww iqg jsgqddwfj si gfjsigf Tefgbmt, si gfrbrf mivabyfvmf bv iqg miqvsgp,
uiof aig iqg aqsqgf, tasfg tww iqg utgy-ziv rbmsigbfj ftgvfy sugiqdu suf
otsbfvmf tvy miqgtdf ia frfgp mbsbkfv, zf mtvvis, eqjs vis, tvy zbww vis
sqgv ctmn. Zf zbww abvbju iqg lic. Uiz miqwy zf yi wfjj? Zf'gf Tefgbmtvj.

Mtgw Jtvycqgd jtby, "B jff Tefgbmt vis bv suf jfssbvd jqv ia t cwtmn vbdus
ia yfjotbg... B jff Tefgbmt bv suf mgbejiv wbdus ia t gbjbvd jqv agfju
agie suf cqgvbvd, mgftsbrf utvy ia Diy... B jff dgfts ytpj tufty aig efv
tvy ziefv ia zbww tvy rbjbiv."

B'rf vfrfg afws eigf jsgivdwp suts Tefgbmt'j cfjs ytpj tvy yfeimgtmp'j cfjs
ytpj wbf tufty. Zf'gf t oizfgaqw aigmf aig diiy. Zbsu atbsu tvy miqgtdf, zf
mtv ofgaige dgfts yffyj tvy stnf agffyie'j vfxs jsfo. Tvy zf zbww. Zf zbww
mtggp iv suf sgtybsbiv ia t diiy tvy zigsup ofiowf zui utrf cgiqdus wbdus
zufgf sufgf ztj ytgnvfjj, ztgesu zufgf sufgf ztj miwy, efybmbvf zufgf sufgf
ztj ybjftjf, aiiy zufgf sufgf ztj uqvdfg, tvy oftmf zufgf sufgf ztj ivwp
cwiiyjufy.

Wfs qj cf jqgf suts suijf zui mief tasfg zbww jtp ia qj bv iqg sbef, suts
bv iqg sbef zf yby frfgpsubvd suts miqwy cf yivf. Zf abvbjufy suf gtmf; zf
nfos sufe agff; zf nfos suf atbsu.

Sutvn piq rfgp eqmu. Diy cwfjj piq, tvy Diy cwfjj Tefgbmt.

VISF: Suf Ogfjbyfvs joinf ts 9:02 o.e. bv suf Uiqjf Mutecfg ia suf Mtobsiw.
Uf ztj bvsgiyqmfy cp Suietj O. I'Vfbww, Lg., Joftnfg ia suf Uiqjf ia
Gfogfjfvstsbrfj. Suf tyygfjj ztj cgitymtjs wbrf iv vtsbivzbyf gtybi tvy
sfwfrbjbiv.