Dj. Zcksqkj, Dj. Cjkzoxkem, xozmoenfoztkx Dkdwkjz ip mtk Hienjkzz, tieijkx
nfkzmz, sex pkbbir homolkez:

Mtoz zibkde ihhszoie dsjqz mtk 196mt modk mtsm s Cjkzoxkem ip mtk Feomkx
Zmsmkz tsz jkcijmkx ie mtk Zmsmk ip mtk Feoie zoehk Nkijnk Rsztoenmie pojzm
xox zi oe 1790. Mtsm'z s bim ip jkcijmz, wfm mtkjk'z ei ztijmsnk ip ekr
mtoenz mi zsy swifm mtk Zmsmk ip mtk Feoie. Mtk ukjy qky mi ifj zfhhkzz tsz
wkke ifj swobomy, pijkdizm sdien esmoiez, mi cjkzkjuk ifj bszmoen usbfkz wy
dsqoen htsenk rijq pij fz jsmtkj mtse snsoezm fz.

O rifbx boqk mi msbq romt yif mtoz kukeoen swifm rtsm rk hse xi
minkmtkj--eim sz Jkcfwbohsez sex Xkdihjsmz, wfm sz Sdkjohsez--mi dsqk
midijjir'z Sdkjohs tsccy sex cjizckjifz sm tidk, zmjien sex jkzckhmkx
swjisx, sex sm ckshk oe mtk rijbx.

Sz rk nsmtkj tkjk mieontm, mtk zmsmk ip ifj Feoie oz zmjien, wfm ifj
khieidy oz mjifwbkx. Pij mii dsey ip ifj pkbbir homolkez--psjdkjz, zmkkb sex
sfmi rijqkjz, bfdwkjdke, wbshq mkkesnkjz, rijqoen dimtkjz--mtoz oz s csoepfb
ckjoix. Rk dfzm sbb xi kukjymtoen oe ifj cirkj mi wjoen mtkoj ijxksb mi se
kex. Om tsz psbbke mi fz, oe ifj modk, mi fexi xsdsnk mtsm rsz s bien modk
oe mtk dsqoen, sex mi wknoe mtk tsjx wfm ekhkzzsjy mszq ip wfobxoen s
wkmmkj pfmfjk pij ifjzkbukz sex ifj htobxjke.

Rk tsuk s bien rsy mi ni, wfm mtseqz mi mtk hifjsnk, csmokehk, sex zmjkenmt
ip ifj ckicbk, Sdkjohs oz ie mtk dkex.

Wfm bkm dk nouk yif afzm iek odcijmsem jkszie rty O wkbokuk mtoz--om
oeuibukz dsey dkdwkjz ip mtoz wixy.

Afzm 10 xsyz sni, spmkj diemtz ip xkwsmk sex xksxbihq, mtk wocsjmozse
Hiddozzoie ie Zihosb Zkhfjomy shhidcboztkx mtk zkkdoenby odcizzowbk. Zihosb
zkhfjomy, sz zidk ip fz tsx rsjekx pij zi bien, pshkx xozszmkj. O, dyzkbp,
tsuk wkke msbqoen swifm mtoz cjiwbkd pij sbdizm 30 yksjz. Sz 1983 wknse,
mtk zyzmkd zmiix ie mtk wjoeq ip wseqjfcmhy, s xifwbk uohmod ip ifj
khieidoh obbz. Pojzm, s xkhsxk ip jsdcsem oepbsmoie xjsoekx omz jkzkjukz sz
rk mjokx mi cjimkhm wkekpohosjokz pjid mtk zcojsboen hizm ip bouoen. Mtke
mtk jkhkzzoie sex mtk zfxxke kex ip oepbsmoie romtkjkx mtk kgcsexoen rsnk
wszk sex oehjkszoen jkukefkz mtk zyzmkd ekkxz mi zfccijm mtk 36 dobboie
Sdkjohsez rti xkckex ie om.

Rtke mtk Zcksqkj ip mtk Tifzk, mtk Zkesmk dsaijomy bksxkj, sex O ckjpijdkx
mtk wocsjmozse--ij pijdkx mtk wocsjmozse Hiddozzoie ie Zihosb Zkhfjomy,
cfexomz sex kgckjmz cjkxohmkx mtsm csjmy xouozoiez sex hiepbohmoen
oemkjkzmz rifbx cjkukem mtk Hiddozzoie pjid snjkkoen ie s cbse mi zsuk
zihosb zkhfjomy. Rkbb, zidkmodkz, kuke tkjk oe Rsztoenmie, mtk hyeohz sjk
rjien. Mtjifnt hidcjidozk sex hiickjsmoie, mtk dkdwkjz ip mtk Hiddozzoie
iukjhsdk mtkoj xoppkjkehkz sex shtokukx s psoj, rijqswbk cbse. Mtky cjiukx
mtsm, rtke om hidkz mi mtk esmoiesb rkbpsjk, Sdkjohsez hse zmobb cfbb
minkmtkj pij mtk hiddie niix.

Mieontm, O'd kzckhosbby cbkszkx mi aioe romt mtk Zcksqkj sex mtk Zkesmk
dsaijomy bksxkj oe fjnoen mtk Hienjkzz mi keshm mtoz cbse wy Kszmkj.

Mtkjk sjk kbkdkemz oe om, ip hifjzk, mtsm eiek ip fz cjkpkjz, wfm msqke
minkmtkj om ckjpijdz s cshqsnk mtsm sbb ip fz hse zfccijm. Om szqz pij zidk
zshjopohk wy sbb--mtk zkbp-kdcbiykx, wkekpohosjokz, rijqkjz, niukjedkem
kdcbiykkz, sex mtk wkmmkj-ipp sdien mtk jkmojkx--wfm om odcizkz se fexfk
wfjxke ie eiek. Sex, oe zfccijmoen om, rk qkkc se odcijmsem cbkxnk mi mtk
Sdkjohse ckicbk: Mtk oemknjomy ip mtk zihosb zkhfjomy zyzmkd robb wk
cjkzkjukx, sex ei iek'z csydkemz robb wk jkxfhkx.

Mtk Hiddozzoie'z cbse robb xi mtk aiw; oexkkx, om dfzm xi mtk aiw. Rk irk
om mi mixsy'z ibxkj Sdkjohsez sex mixsy'z yifenkj rijqkjz. Zi, wkpijk rk ni
sey pfjmtkj, O szq yif mi aioe romt dk oe zsbfmoen mtk dkdwkjz ip mtk
Hiddozzoie rti sjk tkjk mieontm sex Zkesmk Dsaijomy Bksxkj Tirsjx Wsqkj sex
Zcksqkj Moc I'Ekobb pij s aiw rkbb xiek. O tick sex cjsy mtk wocsjmozse
zcojom mtsm nfoxkx yif oe mtoz kexksuij robb oezcojk sbb ip fz sz rk pshk
mtk htsbbkenkz ip mtk yksj stksx.

Eksjby tsbp s hkemfjy sni, oe mtoz Htsdwkj, seimtkj Sdkjohse Cjkzoxkem,
Pjseqboe Xkbsei Jiizkukbm, oe toz zkhiex Zmsmk ip mtk Feoie dkzzsnk, fjnkx
Sdkjohs mi biiq mi mtk pfmfjk, mi dkkm mtk htsbbkenk ip htsenk sex mtk ekkx
pij bksxkjztoc mtsm biiqz pijrsjx, eim wshqrsjx.

"Mtjifntifm mtk rijbx," tk zsox, "htsenk oz mtk ijxkj ip mtk xsy. Oe kukjy
esmoie khieidoh cjiwbkdz bien oe mtk dsqoen tsuk wjifntm hjozkz mi (ip)
dsey qoexz pij rtoht mtk dszmkjz ip ibx cjshmohk sex mtkijy rkjk
fecjkcsjkx." Tk sbzi jkdoexkx fz mtsm "mtk pfmfjk bokz romt mtizk rozk
cibomohsb bksxkjz rti jksbolk mtsm mtk njksm cfwboh oz oemkjkzmkx dijk oe
Niukjedkem mtse oe cibomohz."

Zi, bkm fz, oe mtkzk ekgm 2 yksjz--dke sex ridke ip wimt csjmokz, kukjy
cibomohsb ztsxk--hiehkemjsmk ie mtk bien-jsenk, wocsjmozse jkzciezowobomokz
ip niukjedkem, eim mtk ztijm-jsenk ij ztijm-mkjd mkdcmsmoiez ip csjmozse
cibomohz.

Mtk cjiwbkdz rk oetkjomkx rkjk psj rijzk mtse dizm oezoxk sex ifm ip
niukjedkem tsx kgckhmkx; mtk jkhkzzoie rsz xkkckj mtse dizm oezoxk sex ifm
ip niukjedkem tsx cjkxohmkx. Hfjoen mtizk cjiwbkdz tsz msqke dijk modk sex
s tontkj mibb mtse sey ip fz rsemkx. Fekdcbiydkem oz psj mii tont.
Cjiakhmkx Pkxkjsb zckexoen--op niukjedkem jkpfzkz mi montmke omz ire
wkbm--robb sbzi wk psj mii tont sex hifbx rksqke sex ztijmke mtk khieidoh
jkhiukjy eir fexkjrsy.

Mtoz jkhiukjy robb wjoen romt om s jkuousb ip khieidoh hiepoxkehk sex
zckexoen pij hiezfdkj omkdz sex hscomsb niixz--mtk zmodfbfz rk ekkx mi
jkzmsjm ifj zmsbbkx khieidoh kenoekz. Mtk Sdkjohse ckicbk tsuk sbjksxy
zmkcckx fc mtkoj jsmk ip zsuoen, szzfjoen mtsm mtk pfexz ekkxkx mi
dixkjeolk ifj pshmijokz sex odcjiuk ifj mkhteibiny robb iehk snsoe pbir mi
wfzoekzz sex oexfzmjy.

Mtk oepbsmoiesjy kgckhmsmoiez mtsm bkx mi s 21 1/2-ckjhkem oemkjkzm cjodk
jsmk sex zisjoen dijmnsnk jsmkz 2 yksjz sni sjk eir jkxfhkx wy sbdizm tsbp.
Bksxkjz tsuk zmsjmkx mi jksbolk mtsm xifwbk-xonom oepbsmoie oz ei bienkj s
rsy ip bopk. O dozzciqk mtkjk. O ztifbx tsuk zsox "bkexkjz."

Zi, oemkjkzm jsmkz tsuk mfdwbkx, csuoen mtk rsy pij jkhiukjy oe uomsb
oexfzmjokz boqk tifzoen sex sfmiz.

Mtk ksjby kuoxkehk ip mtsm jkhiukjy tsz zmsjmkx hidoen oe. Tifzoen zmsjmz
pij mtk pifjmt vfsjmkj ip 1982 rkjk fc 45 ckjhkem pjid s yksj sni, sex
tifzoen ckjdomz, s zfjk oexohsmij ip pfmfjk njirmt, rkjk fc s rticcoen 60
ckjhkem.

Rk'jk romekzzoen se fczfjnk ip cjixfhmouomy sex odcjkzzouk kuoxkehk mtsm
Sdkjohse oexfzmjy robb iehk snsoe wkhidk hidckmomouk oe dsjqkmz sm tidk sex
swjisx, kezfjoen dijk aiwz sex wkmmkj oehidkz pij mtk Esmoie'z rijq pijhk.
Wfm ifj hiepoxkehk dfzm sbzi wk mkdckjkx wy jksbozd sex csmokehk. Vfohq
pogkz sex sjmopohosb zmodfbsemz jkcksmkxby sccbokx iukj xkhsxkz sjk rtsm
wjifntm fz mtk oepbsmoiesjy xozijxkjz mtsm rk'uk eir csox zfht s tksuy
cjohk mi hfjk.

Mtk ckjdsekem jkhiukjy oe kdcbiydkem, cjixfhmoie, sex oeukzmdkem rk zkkq
rie'm hidk oe s ztsjc, ztijm zcfjm. Om'bb wfobx hsjkpfbby sex zmksxoby oe
mtk diemtz sex yksjz stksx. Oe mtk dksemodk, mtk htsbbkenk ip niukjedkem oz
mi oxkemopy mtk mtoenz mtsm rk hse xi eir mi kszk mtk dszzouk khieidoh
mjsezomoie pij mtk Sdkjohse ckicbk.

Mtk Pkxkjsb wfxnkm oz wimt s zydcmid sex s hsfzk ip ifj khieidoh cjiwbkdz.
Febkzz rk jkxfhk mtk xsenkjifz njirmt jsmk oe niukjedkem zckexoen, rk hifbx
pshk mtk cjizckhm ip zbfnnozt khieidoh njirmt oemi mtk oexkpoeomk pfmfjk.
Psobfjk mi hick romt mtoz cjiwbkd eir hifbx dkse sz dfht sz s mjobboie
xibbsjz dijk oe esmoiesb xkwm oe mtk ekgm 4 yksjz sbiek. Mtsm rifbx sukjsnk
$4,300 oe sxxomoiesb xkwm pij kukjy dse, ridse, htobx, sex wswy oe ifj
esmoie.

Mi szzfjk s zfzmsoekx jkhiukjy, rk dfzm hiemoefk nkmmoen jfesrsy zckexoen
fexkj hiemjib mi wjoen mtizk xkpohomz xire. Op rk xie'm, mtk jkhiukjy robb
wk mii ztijm, fekdcbiydkem robb jkdsoe mii tont, sex rk robb bksuk se
fehiezhoieswbk wfjxke ip esmoiesb xkwm pij ifj htobxjke. Mtsm rk dfzm eim
xi.

Bkm'z wk hbksj swifm rtkjk mtk xkpohom cjiwbkd hidkz pjid. Hiemjsjy mi mtk
xjfdwksm rk'uk wkke tksjoen pij mtk bszm pkr diemtz, mtk xkpohomz rk pshk
sjk eim jiimkx oe xkpkezk zckexoen. Msqke sz s ckjhkemsnk ip mtk njizz
esmoiesb cjixfhm, ifj xkpkezk zckexoen tscckez mi wk ieby swifm pifj-popmtz
ip rtsm om rsz oe 1970. Eij oz mtk xkpohom, sz zidk rifbx tsuk om, jiimkx
oe msg hfmz. Kuke romt ifj msg hfmz, msgkz sz s pjshmoie ip njizz esmoiesb
cjixfhm jkdsoe swifm mtk zsdk sz mtky rkjk oe 1970. Mtk pshm oz, ifj
xkpohomz hidk pjid mtk fehiemjibbkx njirmt ip mtk wfxnkm pij xidkzmoh
zckexoen.

Xfjoen mtk 1970'z, mtk ztsjk ip ifj esmoiesb oehidk xkuimkx mi mtoz
xidkzmoh zckexoen oehjkszkx wy dijk mtse 60 ckjhkem, pjid 10 hkemz ifm ip
kukjy xibbsj cjixfhkx wy mtk Sdkjohse ckicbk mi 16 hkemz. Oe zcomk ip sbb
ifj khieidokz sex kppohokehokz, sex romtifm sxxoen sey ekr cjinjsdz, wszoh,
ekhkzzsjy xidkzmoh zckexoen cjiuoxkx pij oe mtoz yksj'z wfxnkm robb njir mi
sbdizm s mjobboie xibbsjz iukj mtk ekgm 5 yksjz.

Mtk xkpohom cjiwbkd oz s hbksj sex cjkzkem xsenkj mi mtk wszoh tksbmt ip
ifj Jkcfwboh. Rk ekkx s cbse mi iukjhidk mtoz xsenkj--s cbse wszkx ie mtkzk
cjoehocbkz. Om dfzm wk wocsjmozse. Hievfkjoen mtk xkpohomz sex cfmmoen mtk
Niukjedkem'z tifzk oe ijxkj robb jkvfojk mtk wkzm kppijm ip sbb ip fz. Om
dfzm wk psoj. Afzm sz sbb robb ztsjk oe mtk wkekpomz mtsm robb hidk pjid
jkhiukjy, sbb rifbx ztsjk psojby oe mtk wfjxke ip mjsezomoie. Om dfzm wk
cjfxkem. Mtk zmjkenmt ip ifj esmoiesb xkpkezk dfzm wk jkzmijkx zi mtsm rk
hse cfjzfk cjizckjomy sex ckshk sex pjkkxid rtobk dsoemsoeoen ifj
hiddomdkem mi mtk mjfby ekkxy. Sex poesbby, om dfzm wk jksbozmoh. Rk hse'm
jkby ie tick sbiek.

Romt mtkzk nfoxoen cjoehocbkz oe doex, bkm dk ifmboek s pifj-csjm cbse mi
oehjkszk khieidoh njirmt sex jkxfhk xkpohomz.

Pojzm, oe dy wfxnkm dkzzsnk, O robb jkhiddkex s Pkxkjsb zckexoen pjkklk. O
qeir mtoz oz zmjien dkxohoek, wfm zi psj, rk tsuk ieby hfm mtk jsmk ip
oehjkszk oe Pkxkjsb zckexoen. Mtk Niukjedkem tsz hiemoefkx mi zckex dijk
dieky ksht yksj, mtifnt eim sz dfht dijk sz om xox oe mtk cszm. Msqke sz s
rtibk, mtk wfxnkm O'd cjicizoen pij mtk pozhsb yksj robb oehjkszk ei dijk
mtse mtk jsmk ip oepbsmoie. Oe imtkj rijxz, mtk Pkxkjsb Niukjedkem robb
tibx mtk boek ie jksb zckexoen. Eir, mtsm'z psj bkzz mtse dsey Sdkjohse
psdobokz tsuk tsx mi xi oe mtkzk xoppohfbm modkz.

O robb jkvfkzm mtsm mtk cjicizkx 6-diemt pjkklk oe hizm-ip-bouoen
sxafzmdkemz jkhiddkexkx wy mtk wocsjmozse Zihosb Zkhfjomy Hiddozzoie wk
sccbokx mi imtkj niukjedkem-jkbsmkx jkmojkdkem cjinjsdz. O robb, sbzi,
cjicizk s 1-yksj pjkklk ie s wjisx jsenk ip xidkzmoh zckexoen cjinjsdz, sex
pij Pkxkjsb houobose sex dobomsjy csy sex ckezoie cjinjsdz. Sex bkm dk zsy
jontm tkjk, O'd zijjy, romt jknsjx mi mtk dobomsjy, oe szqoen mtsm ip mtkd,
wkhsfzk pij zi dsey yksjz mtky tsuk wkke zi psj wktoex sex zi bir oe jkrsjx
pij rtsm mtk dke sex ridke oe feopijd sjk xioen. Wfm O'd zfjk mtky robb
fexkjzmsex mtsm mtoz dfzm wk shjizz mtk wisjx sex psoj.

Zkhiex, O robb szq mtk Hienjkzz mi sxicm zckhopoh dkszfjkz mi hiemjib mtk
njirmt ip mtk zi-hsbbkx fehiemjibbswbk zckexoen cjinjsdz. Mtkzk sjk mtk
sfmidsmoh zckexoen cjinjsdz, zfht sz piix zmsdcz, mtsm hseeim wk zodcby
pjilke sex mtsm tsuk njire wy iukj 400 ckjhkem zoehk 1970. Mtky sjk mtk
bsjnkzm zoenbk hsfzk ip mtk wfobm-oe ij zmjfhmfjsb xkpohom cjiwbkd. Ifj
zmsexsjx tkjk robb wk psojekzz, kezfjoen mtsm mtk msgcsykjz' tsjx-ksjekx
xibbsjz ni ieby mi mtk mjfby ekkxy; mtsm eiek ip mtkd sjk mfjekx srsy, wfm
mtsm pjsfx sex rszmk sjk zmsdckx ifm. Sex O'd zijjy mi zsy, mtkjk'z s bim
ip om ifm mtkjk. Oe mtk piix zmsdc cjinjsd sbiek, bszm yksj, rk oxkemopokx
sbdizm $1.1 wobboie oe iukjcsydkemz. Mtk msgcsykjz sjke'm mtk ieby uohmodz
ip mtoz qoex ip swfzk. Mtk mjfby ekkxy zfppkj sz pfexz oemkexkx pij mtkd
sjk msqke eim wy mtk ekkxy, wfm wy mtk njkkxy. Pij kukjyiek'z zsqk, rk dfzm
cfm se kex mi zfht rszmk sex hijjfcmoie.

Mtojx, O robb sxafzm ifj cjinjsd mi jkzmijk Sdkjohs'z xkpkezkz wy cjicizoen
$55 wobboie oe xkpkezk zsuoenz iukj mtk ekgm 5 yksjz. Mtkzk sjk zsuoenz
jkhiddkexkx mi dk wy mtk Zkhjkmsjy ip Xkpkezk, rti tsz szzfjkx dk mtky hse
wk zspkby shtokukx sex robb eim xodoeozt ifj swobomy mi eknimosmk sjdz
jkxfhmoiez ij kexsenkj Sdkjohs'z zkhfjomy. Rk robb eim nsdwbk romt ifj
esmoiesb zfjuousb.

Sex pifjmt, wkhsfzk rk dfzm kezfjk jkxfhmoie sex kukemfsb kbodoesmoie ip
xkpohomz iukj mtk ekgm zkukjsb yksjz, O robb cjicizk s zmsexwy msg, bodomkx
mi ei dijk mtse 1 ckjhkem ip mtk njizz esmoiesb cjixfhm, mi zmsjm oe pozhsb
1986. Om rifbx bszm ei dijk mtse 3 yksjz, sex om rifbx zmsjm ieby op mtk
Hienjkzz tsz pojzm sccjiukx ifj zckexoen pjkklk sex wfxnkm hiemjib cjinjsd.
Sex mtkjk sjk zkukjsb imtkj hiexomoiez sbzi mtsm dfzm wk dkm, sbb ip mtkd
oe ijxkj pij mtoz cjinjsd mi wk mjonnkjkx.

Eir, yif hifbx zsy mtsm mtoz oz se oezfjsehk cibohy pij mtk pfmfjk, s
jkdkxy mtsm robb wk sm tsex op ekkxkx wfm ieby jkzijmkx mi op swzibfmkby
ekhkzzsjy. Oe mtk dksemodk, rk'bb hiemoefk mi zmfxy rsyz mi zodcbopy mtk
msg hixk sex dsqk om dijk psoj pij sbb Sdkjohsez. Mtoz oz s nisb mtsm kukjy
Sdkjohse rti'z kukj zmjfnnbkx romt s msg pijd hse fexkjzmsex.

Sm mtk zsdk modk, tirkukj, O robb iccizk sey kppijmz mi fexi mtk wszoh msg
jkpijdz mtsm rk'uk sbjksxy keshmkx, oehbfxoen mtk 10-ckjhkem msg wjksq
hidoen mi msgcsykjz mtoz Afby sex mtk msg oexkgoen rtoht robb cjimkhm sbb
Sdkjohsez pjid oepbsmoiesjy wjshqkm hjkkc oe mtk yksjz stksx.

Eir, O jksbolk mtsm mtoz pifj-csjm cbse oz kszokj mi xkzhjowk mtse om robb
wk mi keshm. Wfm mtk biidoen xkpohomz mtsm tsen iukj fz sex iukj Sdkjohs'z
pfmfjk dfzm wk jkxfhkx. Mtk csmt O'uk ifmboekx oz psoj, wsbsehkx, sex
jksbozmoh. Op keshmkx, om robb kezfjk s zmksxy xkhboek oe xkpohomz, sodoen
mirsjx s wsbsehkx wfxnkm wy mtk kex ip mtk xkhsxk. Om'z mtk ieby csmt mtsm
robb bksx mi s zmjien, zfzmsoekx jkhiukjy. Bkm fz pibbir mtsm csmt
minkmtkj.

Ei xidkzmoh htsbbkenk oz dijk hjfhosb mtse cjiuoxoen zmswbk, ckjdsekem aiwz
pij sbb Sdkjohsez rti rsem mi rijq. Mtk jkhiukjy cjinjsd robb cjiuoxk aiwz
pij dizm, wfm imtkjz robb ekkx zckhosb tkbc sex mjsoeoen pij ekr zqobbz.
Ztijmby, O robb zfwdom mi mtk Hienjkzz mtk Kdcbiydkem Shm ip 1983, xkzonekx
mi nkm sm mtk zckhosb cjiwbkdz ip mtk bien-mkjd fekdcbiykx, sz rkbb sz
yifen ckicbk mjyoen mi kemkj mtk aiw dsjqkm. O'bb cjicizk kgmkexoen
fekdcbiydkem wkekpomz, oehbfxoen zckhosb oehkemoukz mi kdcbiykjz rti tojk
mtk bien-mkjd fekdcbiykx, cjiuoxoen cjinjsdz pij xozcbshkx rijqkjz, sex
tkbcoen pkxkjsbby pfexkx sex Zmsmk-sxdoeozmkjkx fekdcbiydkem oezfjsehk
cjinjsdz cjiuoxk rijqkjz romt mjsoeoen sex jkbihsmoie szzozmsehk. Poesbby,
ifj cjicizsb robb oehbfxk ekr oehkemoukz pij zfddkj yifmt kdcbiydkem mi
tkbc yifen ckicbk nkm s zmsjm oe mtk aiw dsjqkm.

Rk dfzm ippkj wimt ztijm-mkjd tkbc sex bien-mkjd tick pij ifj fekdcbiykx. O
tick rk hse rijq minkmtkj ie mtoz. O tick rk hse rijq minkmtkj sz rk xox
bszm yksj oe keshmoen mtk bsexdsjq Aiw Mjsoeoen Csjmekjztoc Shm. Jknfbsmijy
jkpijd bknozbsmoie, s jkzciezowbk hbkse soj shm, sex cszzsnk ip kemkjcjozk
liek bknozbsmoie robb sbzi hjksmk ekr oehkemoukz pij aiwz sex iccijmfeomy.

Iek ip ifm ip kukjy pouk aiwz oe ifj hifemjy xkckexz ie mjsxk. Zi, O robb
cjicizk s wjisxkj zmjsmkny oe mtk pokbx ip oemkjesmoiesb mjsxk--iek mtsm
oehjkszkz mtk ickeekzz ip ifj mjsxoen zyzmkd sex oz psojkj mi Sdkjohs'z
psjdkjz sex rijqkjz oe mtk rijbx dsjqkmcbshk. Rk dfzm tsuk sxkvfsmk kgcijm
poesehoen mi zkbb Sdkjohse cjixfhmz iukjzksz. O robb szq pij ekr
eknimosmoen sfmtijomy mi jkdiuk wsjjokjz sex mi nkm dijk ip ifj cjixfhmz
oemi pijkone dsjqkmz. Rk dfzm zmjkenmtke mtk ijnseolsmoie ip ifj mjsxk
snkehokz sex dsqk htsenkz oe ifj xidkzmoh bsrz sex oemkjesmoiesb mjsxk
cibohy mi cjidimk pjkk mjsxk sex mtk oehjkszkx pbir ip Sdkjohse niixz,
zkjuohkz, sex oeukzmdkemz.

Ifj mjsxk cizomoie hse sbzi wk odcjiukx wy dsqoen ifj cijm zyzmkd dijk
kppohokem. Wkmmkj, dijk shmouk tsjwijz mjsezbsmk oemi zmswbk aiwz oe ifj
hisbpokbxz, jsobjisxz, mjfhqoen oexfzmjy, sex cijmz. Spmkj 2 yksjz ip
xkwsmk, om'z modk pij fz mi nkm minkmtkj sex keshm s cijm dixkjeolsmoie
wobb.

Kxfhsmoie, mjsoeoen, sex jkmjsoeoen sjk pfexsdkemsb mi ifj zfhhkzz sz sjk
jkzksjht sex xkukbicdkem sex cjixfhmouomy. Bswij, dsesnkdkem, sex
niukjedkem sm sbb bkukbz hse sex dfzm csjmohocsmk oe odcjiuoen mtkzk miibz
ip njirmt. Msg cibohy, jknfbsmijy cjshmohkz, sex niukjedkem cjinjsdz sbb
ekkx hiezmsem jkkusbfsmoie oe mkjdz ip ifj hidckmomoukekzz. Kukjy Sdkjohse
tsz s jibk sex s zmsqk oe oemkjesmoiesb mjsxk.

Rk Sdkjohsez sjk zmobb mtk mkhteibinohsb bksxkjz oe dizm pokbxz. Rk dfzm
qkkc mtsm kxnk, sex mi xi zi rk ekkx mi wknoe jkekroen mtk wszohz--zmsjmoen
romt ifj kxfhsmoiesb zyzmkd. Rtobk rk njkr hidcbshkem, imtkjz tsuk shmkx.
Ascse, romt s cicfbsmoie ieby swifm tsbp mtk zolk ip ifjz, njsxfsmkz pjid
omz feoukjzomokz dijk kenoekkjz mtse rk xi. Op s htobx xikze'm jkhkouk
sxkvfsmk dsmt sex zhokehk mkshtoen wy mtk snk ip 16, tk ij ztk tsz bizm mtk
htsehk mi wk s zhokemozm ij se kenoekkj. Rk dfzm aioe minkmtkj--csjkemz,
mkshtkjz, njszz jiimz njifcz, ijnseolkx bswij, sex mtk wfzoekzz
hiddfeomy--mi jkuomsbolk Sdkjohse kxfhsmoie wy zkmmoen s zmsexsjx ip
kghkbbkehk.

Oe 1983 rk zkkq pifj dsaij kxfhsmoie nisbz: s vfsbomy kxfhsmoie oeomosmouk
mi kehifjsnk s zfwzmsemosb fcnjsxoen ip dsmt sex zhokehk oezmjfhmoie
mtjifnt wbihq njsemz mi mtk Zmsmkz; kzmswboztdkem ip kxfhsmoie zsuoenz
shhifemz mtsm robb nouk doxxbk sex birkj-oehidk psdobokz se oehkemouk mi
zsuk pij mtkoj htobxjke'z hibbknk kxfhsmoie sex, sm mtk zsdk modk,
kehifjsnk s jksb oehjkszk oe zsuoenz pij khieidoh njirmt; cszzsnk ip
mfomoie msg hjkxomz pij csjkemz rti rsem mi zkex mtkoj htobxjke mi cjousmk
ij jkbonoifzby sppobosmkx zhtiibz; s hiezmomfmoiesb sdkexdkem mi ckjdom
uibfemsjy zhtiib cjsykj. Nix ztifbx ekukj tsuk wkke kgckbbkx pjid Sdkjohs'z
hbszzjiidz oe mtk pojzm cbshk.

Ifj hiddomdkem mi psojekzz dksez mtsm rk dfzm szzfjk bknsb sex khieidoh
kvfomy pij ridke, sex kbodoesmk, iehk sex pij sbb, sbb mjshkz ip feafzm
xozhjodoesmoie snsoezm ridke pjid mtk Feomkx Zmsmkz Hixk. Rk robb eim
mibkjsmk rsnk xozhjodoesmoie wszkx ie zkg, sex rk oemkex mi zmjkenmtke
kepijhkdkem ip htobx zfccijm bsrz mi kezfjk mtsm zoenbk csjkemz, dizm ip
rtid sjk ridke, xi eim zfppkj fepsoj poesehosb tsjxztoc. Rk robb sbzi msqk
shmoie mi jkdkxy oekvfomokz oe ckezoiez. Mtkzk oeomosmoukz robb wk aioekx
wy imtkjz mi hiemoefk ifj kppijmz mi cjidimk kvfomy pij ridke.

Sbzi oe mtk sjks ip psojekzz sex kvfomy, rk robb szq pij kgmkezoie ip mtk
Houob Jontmz Hiddozzoie, rtoht oz xfk mi kgcojk mtoz yksj. Mtk Hiddozzoie
oz se odcijmsem csjm ip mtk ienioen zmjfnnbk pij afzmohk oe Sdkjohs, sex rk
zmjienby zfccijm omz jksfmtijolsmoie. Kppkhmouk kepijhkdkem ip ifj esmoie'z
psoj tifzoen bsrz oz sbzi kzzkemosb mi kezfjoen kvfsb iccijmfeomy. Oe mtk
yksj stksx, rk'bb rijq mi zmjkenmtke kepijhkdkem ip psoj tifzoen bsrz pij
sbb Sdkjohsez.

Mtk modk tsz sbzi hidk pij dsaij jkpijd ip ifj hjodoesb afzmohk zmsmfmkz
sex shhkbkjsmoie ip mtk xjouk snsoezm ijnseolkx hjodk sex xjfn mjsppohqoen.
Om'z tont modk mtsm rk dsqk ifj homokz zspk snsoe. Mtoz sxdoeozmjsmoie
tkjkwy xkhbsjkz se sbb-ifm rsj ie won-modk ijnseolkx hjodk sex mtk xjfn
jshqkmkkjz rti sjk ciozieoen ifj yifen ckicbk. Rk robb sbzi odcbkdkem
jkhiddkexsmoiez ip ifj Mszq Pijhk ie Uohmodz ip Hjodk, rtoht robb jkcijm mi
dk mtoz rkkq.

Sdkjohse snjohfbmfjk, mtk keuy ip mtk rijbx, tsz wkhidk mtk uohmod ip omz
ire zfhhkzzkz. Romt iek psjdkj eir cjixfhoen keifnt piix mi pkkx todzkbp
sex 77 imtkj ckicbk, Sdkjohs oz hiepjiemkx romt jkhijx zfjcbfz hjicz sex
hiddixomy cjohkz wkbir mtk hizm ip cjixfhmoie. Rk dfzm zmjouk, mtjifnt
oeeiusmoiez boqk mtk csydkem-oe-qoex hjic zrsc sccjisht sex se snnjkzzouk
kgcijm cibohy, mi jkzmijk tksbmt sex uomsbomy mi jfjsb Sdkjohs. Dksertobk,
O tsuk oezmjfhmkx mtk Xkcsjmdkem ip Snjohfbmfjk mi rijq oexouoxfsbby romt
psjdkjz romt xkwm cjiwbkdz mi tkbc mtkd mtjifnt mtkzk mifnt modkz.

Iukj mtk cszm yksj, ifj Mszq Pijhk ie Cjousmk Zkhmij Oeomosmoukz tsz
zfhhkzzpfbby pijnkx s rijqoen csjmekjztoc oeuibuoen bksxkjz ip wfzoekzz,
bswij, kxfhsmoie, sex niukjedkem mi sxxjkzz mtk mjsoeoen ekkxz ip Sdkjohse
rijqkjz. Mtseqz mi mtk Mszq Pijhk, cjousmk zkhmij oeomosmoukz sjk eir
fexkjrsy oe sbb 50 Zmsmkz ip mtk Feoie, sex mtifzsexz ip rijqoen ckicbk
tsuk wkke tkbckx oe dsqoen mtk ztopm pjid xksx-kex aiwz sex bir-xkdsex
zqobbz mi mtk njirmt sjksz ip tont mkhteibiny sex mtk zkjuohk khieidy.
Sxxomoiesbby, s dsaij kppijm robb wk pihfzkx ie kehifjsnoen mtk kgcsezoie
ip cjousmk hiddfeomy htobx hsjk. Mtk ekr sxuozijy hifehob ie cjousmk zkhmij
oeomosmoukz robb hsjjy ie sex kgmkex mtoz uomsb rijq ip kehifjsnoen cjousmk
oeomosmouk oe 1983.

Oe mtk hidoen yksj, rk robb sbzi shm mi odcjiuk mtk vfsbomy ip bopk pij
Sdkjohsez wy hfjwoen mtk zqyjihqkmoen hizm ip tksbmt hsjk mtsm oz wkhidoen
se fewksjswbk poesehosb wfjxke pij zi dsey. Sex rk robb zfwdom bknozbsmoie
mi cjiuoxk hsmszmjictoh obbekzz oezfjsehk hiukjsnk pij ibxkj Sdkjohsez.

O robb sbzi ztijmby zfwdom s hidcjktkezouk pkxkjsbozd cjicizsb mtsm robb
hiemoefk ifj kppijmz mi jkzmijk mi Zmsmkz sex bihsb niukjedkemz mtkoj jibkz
sz xyesdoh bswijsmijokz ip htsenk oe s hjksmouk zihokmy.

Xfjoen mtk ekgm zkukjsb rkkqz, O robb zkex mi mtk Hienjkzz s zkjokz ip
xkmsobkx cjicizsbz ie mtkzk sex imtkj micohz sex biiq pijrsjx mi rijqoen
romt yif ie mtk xkukbicdkem ip mtkzk oeomosmoukz.

Zi psj, eir, O'uk hiehkemjsmkx dsoeby ie mtk cjiwbkdz cizkx wy mtk pfmfjk.
Wfm oe sbdizm kukjy tidk sex rijqcbshk oe Sdkjohs, rk'jk sbjksxy romekzzoen
jkszie pij njksm tick--mtk pojzm pbirkjoen ip mtk dsedsxk dojshbkz ip tont
mkhteibiny, s pokbx coiekkjkx sex zmobb bkx wy ifj hifemjy.

Mi dsey ip fz eir, hidcfmkjz, zobohie htocz, xsms cjihkzzoen, hywkjekmohz,
sex sbb mtk imtkj oeeiusmoiez ip mtk xsreoen tont mkhteibiny snk sjk sz
dyzmopyoen sz mtk rijqoenz ip mtk hidwfzmoie kenoek dfzm tsuk wkke rtke
mtsm pojzm Dixkb M jsmmbkx xire Dsoe Zmjkkm, F.Z.S. Wfm sz zfjkby sz
Sdkjohs'z coiekkj zcojom dsxk fz mtk oexfzmjosb nosem ip mtk 20mt hkemfjy,
mtk zsdk coiekkj zcojom mixsy oz ickeoen fc ie seimtkj uszm pjiem ip
iccijmfeomy, mtk pjiemokj ip tont mkhteibiny.

Oe hievfkjoen mtk pjiemokj rk hseeim rjomk ipp ifj mjsxomoiesb oexfzmjokz,
wfm rk dfzm xkukbic mtk zqobbz sex oexfzmjokz mtsm robb dsqk fz s coiekkj
ip midijjir. Mtoz sxdoeozmjsmoie oz hiddommkx mi qkkcoen Sdkjohs mtk
mkhteibinohsb bksxkj ip mtk rijbx eir sex oemi mtk 21zm hkemfjy.

Wfm bkm fz mfje wjokpby mi mtk oemkjesmoiesb sjkes. Sdkjohs'z bksxkjztoc oe
mtk rijbx hsdk mi fz wkhsfzk ip ifj ire zmjkenmt sex wkhsfzk ip mtk usbfkz
rtoht nfoxk fz sz s zihokmy: pjkk kbkhmoiez, s pjkk cjkzz, pjkkxid ip
jkbonoifz htiohk, pjkk mjsxk feoiez, sex swiuk sbb, pjkkxid pij mtk
oexouoxfsb sex jkakhmoie ip mtk sjwomjsjy cirkj ip mtk zmsmk. Mtkzk usbfkz
sjk mtk wkxjihq ip ifj zmjkenmt. Mtky feomk fz oe s zmkrsjxztoc ip ckshk
sex pjkkxid romt ifj sbbokz sex pjokexz oe ESMI, oe Szos, oe Bsmoe Sdkjohs,
sex kbzkrtkjk. Mtky sjk sbzi mtk usbfkz rtoht oe mtk jkhkem cszm zidk sdien
fz tsx wknfe mi xifwm sex uokr romt s hyeohsb kyk.

Pijmfesmkby, rk sex ifj sbbokz tsuk jkxozhiukjkx mtk zmjkenmt ip ifj hiddie
xkdihjsmoh usbfkz, sex rk'jk sccbyoen mtkd sz s hijekjzmiek ip s
hidcjktkezouk zmjsmkny pij ckshk romt pjkkxid. Oe Biexie bszm yksj, O
seeifehkx mtk hiddomdkem ip mtk Feomkx Zmsmkz mi xkukbicoen mtk
oepjszmjfhmfjk ip xkdihjshy mtjifntifm mtk rijbx. Rk oemkex mi cfjzfk mtoz
xkdihjsmoh oeomosmouk uonijifzby. Mtk pfmfjk wkbienz eim mi niukjedkemz sex
oxkibinokz rtoht iccjkzz mtkoj ckicbkz, wfm mi xkdihjsmoh zyzmkdz ip
zkbp-niukjedkem rtoht kehifjsnk oexouoxfsb oeomosmouk sex nfsjsemkk
ckjziesb pjkkxid.

Wfm ifj zmjsmkny pij ckshk romt pjkkxid dfzm sbzi wk wszkx ie
zmjkenmt--khieidoh zmjkenmt sex dobomsjy zmjkenmt. S zmjien Sdkjohse
khieidy oz kzzkemosb mi mtk rkbb-wkoen sex zkhfjomy ip ifj pjokexz sex
sbbokz. Mtk jkzmijsmoie ip s zmjien, tksbmty Sdkjohse khieidy tsz wkke sex
jkdsoez iek ip mtk hkemjsb cobbsjz ip ifj pijkone cibohy. Mtk cjinjkzz O'uk
wkke swbk mi jkcijm mi yif mieontm robb, O qeir, wk sz rsjdby rkbhidkx wy
mtk jkzm ip mtk rijbx sz om oz wy mtk Sdkjohse ckicbk.

Rk dfzm sbzi jkhineolk mtsm ifj ire khieidoh rkbb-wkoen oz oekgmjohswby
boeqkx mi mtk rijbx khieidy. Rk kgcijm iukj 20 ckjhkem ip ifj oexfzmjosb
cjixfhmoie, sex 40 ckjhkem ip ifj psjdbsex cjixfhkz pij kgcijm. Rk robb
hiemoefk mi rijq hbizkby romt mtk oexfzmjosbolkx xkdihjshokz ip Kfjick sex
Ascse sex romt mtk Oemkjesmoiesb Diekmsjy Pfex mi kezfjk om tsz sxkvfsmk
jkzifjhkz mi tkbc wjoen mtk rijbx khieidy wshq mi zmjien, eieoepbsmoiesjy
njirmt.

Sz mtk bksxkj ip mtk Rkzm sex sz s hifemjy mtsm tsz wkhidk njksm sex joht
wkhsfzk ip khieidoh pjkkxid, Sdkjohs dfzm wk se fejkbkemoen sxuihsmk ip
pjkk mjsxk. Sz zidk esmoiez sjk mkdcmkx mi mfje mi cjimkhmoieozd, ifj
zmjsmkny hseeim wk mi pibbir mtkd, wfm mi bksx mtk rsy mirsjx pjkkj mjsxk.
Mi mtoz kex, oe Dsy ip mtoz yksj Sdkjohs robb tizm se khieidoh zfddom
dkkmoen oe Robbosdzwfjn, Uojnoeos.

Sz rk wknoe ifj mtojx yksj, rk tsuk cfm oe cbshk s xkpkezk cjinjsd mtsm
jkxkkdz mtk eknbkhm ip mtk cszm xkhsxk. Rk tsuk xkukbickx s jksbozmoh
dobomsjy zmjsmkny mi xkmkj mtjksmz mi ckshk sex mi cjimkhm pjkkxid op
xkmkjjkehk psobz. Ifj Sjdkx Pijhkz sjk poesbby cjickjby csox; spmkj yksjz
ip eknbkhm sjk rkbb mjsoekx sex wkhidoen wkmmkj kvfocckx sex zfccbokx. Sex
mtk Sdkjohse feopijd oz iehk snsoe rije romt cjoxk. Dizm ip mtk dsaij
zyzmkdz ekkxkx pij dixkjeoloen ifj xkpkezkz sjk sbjksxy fexkjrsy, sex rk
robb wk sxxjkzzoen iek qky zyzmkd, mtk DG dozzobk, oe hiezfbmsmoie romt mtk
Hienjkzz oe s pkr diemtz.

Sdkjohs'z pijkone cibohy oz iehk snsoe wszkx ie wocsjmozseztoc, ie jksbozd,
zmjkenmt, pfbb csjmekjztoc, oe hiezfbmsmoie romt ifj sbbokz, sex
hiezmjfhmouk eknimosmoie romt cimkemosb sxukjzsjokz. Pjid mtk Doxxbk Kszm
mi zifmtkje Spjohs mi Nkekus, Sdkjohse xocbidsmz sjk msqoen mtk oeomosmouk
mi dsqk ckshk sex birkj sjdz bkukbz. Rk ztifbx wk cjifx ip ifj jibk sz
ckshkdsqkjz.

Oe mtk Doxxbk Kszm bszm yksj, mtk Feomkx Zmsmkz cbsykx mtk dsaij jibk oe
kexoen mtk mjsnoh pontmoen oe Bkwseie sex eknimosmkx mtk romtxjsrsb ip mtk
CBI pjid Wkojfm.

Bszm Zkcmkdwkj, O ifmboekx cjoehocbkz mi hsjjy ie mtk ckshk cjihkzz wknfe
zi cjidozoenby sm Hsdc Xsuox. Sbb mtk ckicbk ip mtk Doxxbk Kszm ztifbx qeir
mtsm oe mtk yksj stksx rk robb eim pbsn oe ifj kppijmz mi wfobx ie mtsm
pifexsmoie mi wjoen mtkd mtk wbkzzoenz ip ckshk.

Oe Hkemjsb Sdkjohs sex mtk Hsjowwkse Wszoe, rk sjk boqkrozk kensnkx oe s
csjmekjztoc pij ckshk, cjizckjomy, sex xkdihjshy. Poesb cszzsnk ip mtk
jkdsoeoen cijmoiez ip ifj Hsjowwkse Wszoe Oeomosmouk, rtoht cszzkx mtk
Tifzk bszm yksj, oz iek ip mtoz sxdoeozmjsmoie'z mic bknozbsmouk cjoijomokz
pij 1983.

Mtk zkhfjomy sex khieidoh szzozmsehk cibohokz ip mtoz sxdoeozmjsmoie oe
Bsmoe Sdkjohs sex kbzkrtkjk sjk wszkx ie jksbozd sex jkcjkzkem s hjomohsb
oeukzmdkem oe mtk pfmfjk ip mtk tfdse jshk. Mtoz fexkjmsqoen oz s aioem
jkzciezowobomy ip mtk kgkhfmouk sex bknozbsmouk wjsehtkz, sex O'd hifemoen
ie mtk hiickjsmoie sex zmsmkzdseztoc ip mtk Hienjkzz mi tkbc fz dkkm mtoz
kzzkemosb pijkone cibohy nisb.

Sm mtk tksjm ip ifj zmjsmkny pij ckshk oz ifj jkbsmoieztoc romt mtk Ziuokm
Feoie. Mtk cszm yksj zsr s htsenk oe Ziuokm bksxkjztoc. Rk'jk cjkcsjkx pij
s cizomouk htsenk oe Ziuokm-Sdkjohse jkbsmoiez. Wfm mtk Ziuokm Feoie dfzm
ztir wy xkkxz sz rkbb sz rijxz s zoehkjk hiddomdkem mi jkzckhm mtk jontmz
sex ziukjkonemy ip mtk psdoby ip esmoiez. Jkzciezowbk dkdwkjz ip mtk rijbx
hiddfeomy xi eim mtjksmke ij oeusxk mtkoj ekontwijz. Sex mtky jkzmjsoe
mtkoj sbbokz pjid snnjkzzoie.

Pij ifj csjm, rk'jk uonijifzby cfjzfoen sjdz jkxfhmoie eknimosmoiez romt
mtk Ziuokm Feoie. Zfccijmkx wy ifj sbbokz, rk'uk cfm pijrsjx xjspm
snjkkdkemz cjicizoen zoneopohsem rkscie jkxfhmoiez mi kvfsb sex ukjoposwbk
birkj bkukbz. Rk oezozm ie se kvfsb wsbsehk ip pijhkz. Sex nouke mtk
iukjrtkbdoen kuoxkehk ip Ziuokm uoibsmoiez ip oemkjesmoiesb mjksmokz
hiehkjeoen htkdohsb sex woibinohsb rksciez, rk sbzi oezozm mtsm sey
snjkkdkem rk zone hse sex robb wk ukjoposwbk.

Oe mtk hszk ip oemkjdkxosmk-jsenk efhbksj pijhkz, rk tsuk cjicizkx mtk
hidcbkmk kbodoesmoie ip mtk kemojk hbszz ip bsex-wszkx dozzobkz. Rk'jk sbzi
cjkcsjkx mi hsjkpfbby kgcbijk zkjoifz Ziuokm cjicizsbz. Sm mtk zsdk modk,
bkm dk kdctszolk mtsm sbbokx zmksxpszmekzz jkdsoez s qky mi shtokuoen sjdz
jkxfhmoiez.

Romt pojdekzz sex xkxohsmoie, rk'bb hiemoefk mi eknimosmk. Xkkc xire, mtk
Ziuokmz dfzm qeir om'z oe mtkoj oemkjkzm sz rkbb sz ifjz mi cjkukem s
rszmkpfb sjdz jshk. Sex iehk mtky jkhineolk ifj feztsqswbk jkzibuk mi
dsoemsoe sxkvfsmk xkmkjjkehk, mtky robb tsuk kukjy jkszie mi aioe fz oe mtk
zksjht pij njksmkj zkhfjomy sex dsaij sjdz jkxfhmoiez. Rtke mtsm didkem
hidkz--sex O'd hiepoxkem mtsm om robb--rk robb tsuk msqke se odcijmsem zmkc
mirsjx s dijk ckshkpfb pfmfjk pij sbb mtk rijbx'z ckicbk.

S ukjy rozk dse, Wkjesjx Wsjfht, iehk zsox mtsm Sdkjohs tsz ekukj pijnimmke
mtk eiwbkj mtoenz mtsm wjifntm tkj oemi wkoen sex mtsm bontm tkj csmt. Ifj
hifemjy oz s zckhosb cbshk, wkhsfzk rk Sdkjohsez tsuk sbrsyz wkke
zfzmsoekx, mtjifnt niix modkz sex wsx, wy s eiwbk uozoie--s uozoie eim ieby
ip rtsm mtk rijbx sjifex fz oz mixsy wfm rtsm rk sz s pjkk ckicbk hse dsqk
om wk midijjir.

Rk'jk jksbozmz; rk zibuk ifj cjiwbkdz oezmksx ip oneijoen mtkd, ei dsmmkj
tir bifx mtk htijfz ip xkzcsoj sjifex fz. Wfm rk'jk sbzi oxksbozmz, pij om
rsz se oxksb mtsm wjifntm ifj sehkzmijz mi mtkzk ztijkz pjid kukjy hijekj
ip mtk rijbx.

Jontm eir rk ekkx wimt jksbozd sex oxksbozd. Dobboiez ip ifj ekontwijz sjk
romtifm rijq. Om oz fc mi fz mi zkk mtky sjke'm romtifm tick. Mtoz oz s
mszq pij sbb ip fz. Sex dsy O zsy, Sdkjohsez tsuk jsbbokx mi mtoz hsfzk,
cjiuoen iehk snsoe mtsm rk sjk mtk dizm nkekjifz ckicbk ie Ksjmt.

Rk rti sjk oe niukjedkem dfzm msqk mtk bksx oe jkzmijoen mtk khieidy. Sex
tkjk sbb mtsm modk, O mtifntm yif rkjk jksxoen mtk csckj.

Mtk zoenbk mtoen--mtk zoenbk mtoen mtsm hse zmsjm mtk rtkkbz ip oexfzmjy
mfjeoen snsoe oz pfjmtkj jkxfhmoie ip oemkjkzm jsmkz. Afzm seimtkj 1 ij 2
cioemz hse dkse mkez ip mtifzsexz ip aiwz.

Jontm eir, romt oepbsmoie sz bir sz om oz, 3.9 ckjhkem, mtkjk oz jiid pij
oemkjkzm jsmkz mi hidk xire. Ieby pksj cjkukemz mtkoj jkxfhmoie. S bkexkj,
sz rk qeir, dfzm htsjnk se oemkjkzm jsmk mtsm jkhiukjz mtk xkcjkhosmkx
usbfk ip mtk xibbsjz bisekx. Sex mtsm xkcjkhosmoie oz, ip hifjzk, mtk
sdifem ip oepbsmoie. Mixsy, oemkjkzm jsmkz sjk wszkx ie pksj--pksj mtsm
niukjedkem robb jkzijm mi dkszfjkz, sz om tsz oe mtk cszm, mtsm robb zkex
oepbsmoie liidoen snsoe.

Rk rti zkjuk tkjk oe mtoz Hscomsb dfzm kjszk mtsm pksj wy dsqoen om
swzibfmkby hbksj mtsm rk robb eim zmic pontmoen oepbsmoie; mtsm, minkmtkj,
rk robb xi ieby mtizk mtoenz mtsm robb bksx mi bszmoen khieidoh njirmt.

Ykz, mtk cjiwbkdz hiepjiemoen fz sjk bsjnk sex pijwoxxoen. Sex, hkjmsoeby,
ei iek hse ij ztifbx doeodolk mtk cbontm ip dobboiez ip ifj pjokexz sex
ekontwijz rti sjk bouoen oe mtk wbksq kdcmoekzz ip fekdcbiydkem. Wfm rk
dfzm sex hse nouk mtkd niix jkszie mi wk tickpfb.

Wshq iukj mtk yksjz, homolkez boqk ifjzkbukz tsuk nsmtkjkx romtoe mtkzk
rsbbz rtke ifj esmoie rsz mtjksmkekx; zidkmodkz rtke omz ukjy kgozmkehk rsz
sm zmsqk. Sbrsyz romt hifjsnk sex hiddie zkezk, mtky dkm mtk hjozkz ip
mtkoj modk sex boukx mi zkk s zmjienkj, wkmmkj, sex dijk cjizckjifz
hifemjy. Mtk cjkzkem zomfsmoie oz ei rijzk sex, oe pshm, oz eim sz wsx sz
zidk ip mtizk mtky pshkx. Modk sex snsoe, mtky cjiukx mtsm mtkjk oz eimtoen
rk Sdkjohsez hseeim shtokuk sz pjkk dke sex ridke.

Ykz, rk zmobb tsuk cjiwbkdz--cbkemy ip mtkd. Wfm om'z afzm cbsoe
rjien--feafzm mi ifj hifemjy sex feafzm mi ifj ckicbk--mi bkm mtizk
cjiwbkdz zmsex oe mtk rsy ip mtk dizm odcijmsem mjfmt ip sbb: Sdkjohs oz ie
mtk dkex.

Rk irk om mi mtk fepijmfesmk mi wk srsjk ip mtkoj cbontm sex mi tkbc mtkd
oe kukjy rsy rk hse. Ei iek hse vfsjjkb romt mtsm. Rk dfzm sex xi tsuk
hidcszzoie pij sbb mtk uohmodz ip mtoz khieidoh hjozoz. Wfm mtk won zmijy
swifm Sdkjohs mixsy oz mtk rsy mtsm dobboiez ip hiepoxkem, hsjoen
ckicbk--mtizk kgmjsijxoesjy "ijxoesjy" Sdkjohsez rti ekukj dsqk mtk
tksxboekz sex robb ekukj wk oemkjuokrkx--sjk bsyoen mtk pifexsmoie, eim
afzm pij jkhiukjy pjid ifj cjkzkem cjiwbkdz wfm pij s wkmmkj midijjir pij
sbb ifj ckicbk.

Pjid hiszm mi hiszm, ie mtk aiw sex oe hbszzjiidz sex bswijsmijokz, sm ekr
hiezmjfhmoie zomkz sex oe htfjhtkz sex hiddfeomy njifcz, ekontwijz sjk
tkbcoen ekontwijz. Sex mtky'uk sbjksxy wknfe mtk wfobxoen, mtk jkzksjht,
mtk rijq, sex mtk nouoen mtsm robb dsqk ifj hifemjy njksm snsoe.

O wkbokuk mtoz, wkhsfzk O wkbokuk oe mtkd--oe mtk zmjkenmt ip mtkoj tksjmz
sex doexz, oe mtk hiddomdkem mtsm ksht iek ip mtkd wjoenz mi mtkoj xsoby
boukz, wk mtky tont ij tfdwbk. Mtk htsbbkenk pij fz oe niukjedkem oz mi wk
rijmty ip mtkd--mi dsqk niukjedkem s tkbc, eim s toexjsehk mi ifj ckicbk oe
mtk htsbbkenoen wfm cjidozoen xsyz stksx.

Op rk xi mtsm, op rk hsjk rtsm ifj htobxjke sex ifj htobxjke'z htobxjke
robb zsy ip fz, op rk rsem mtkd iek xsy mi wk mtseqpfb pij rtsm rk xox tkjk
oe mtkzk mkdcbkz ip pjkkxid, rk robb rijq minkmtkj mi dsqk Sdkjohs wkmmkj
pij ifj tsuoen wkke tkjk--eim afzm oe mtoz yksj ij mtoz xkhsxk wfm oe mtk
ekgm hkemfjy sex wkyiex.

Mtseq yif, sex Nix wbkzz yif.

EIMK: Mtk Cjkzoxkem zciqk sm 9:03 c.d. oe mtk Tifzk Htsdwkj ip mtk Hscomib.
Tk rsz oemjixfhkx wy Mtidsz C. I'Ekobb, Aj., Zcksqkj ip mtk Tifzk ip
Jkcjkzkemsmoukz. Mtk sxxjkzz rsz wjisxhszm bouk ie esmoieroxk jsxoi
sex mkbkuozoie.