Ar. Itgekgr, Ar. Trgimygso, ymiomsnhmifgy Agalgri cw ofg Zcsnrgii, fcscrgy
nhgioi, esy wguucj zmompgsi:

Ofesk vch wcr euucjmsn ag oc yguev av eyyrgii hsomu ofmi gbgsmsn. Jg tehigy
ocngofgr oc achrs esy fcscr ofg beucr cw chr igbgs Zfeuugsngr fgrcgi. Esy M
fctg ofeo jg erg scj rgeyv oc yc jfeo ofgv jchuy jeso hi oc yc: Nc wcrjery,
Eagrmze, esy rgezf wcr ofg ioeri. Jg jmuu sgbgr wcrngo ofcig lrebg igbgs,
lho jg ifeuu nc wcrjery.

Ar. Itgekgr, lgwcrg M lgnms av trgtergy rgaerki, aev M tcmso cho ofeo
ocsmnfo aerki ofg 10of esy ueio Ioeog cw ofg Hsmcs Agiieng ofeo vch'bg
trgimygy cbgr. Esy cs lgfeuw cw ofg Eagrmzes tgctug, M jeso oc ieuhog vch
wcr vchr igrbmzg oc Zcsnrgii esy zchsorv. Fgrg'i oc vch!

M febg zcag oc rgbmgj jmof vch ofg trcnrgii cw chr seomcs, oc itgek cw
hswmsmifgy jcrk, esy oc igo chr imnfoi cs ofg whohrg. M ea tugeigy oc
rgtcro ofg ioeog cw chr Hsmcs mi iorcsngr ofes e vger enc esy nrcjmsn
iorcsngr gezf yev. Ocsmnfo jg ucck cho cs e rmimsn Eagrmze, wmra cw fgero,
hsmogy ms itmrmo, tcjgrwhu ms trmyg esy teormcomia. Eagrmze mi cs ofg acbg!
Lho mo jeis'o ucsn enc ofeo jg ucckgy cho cs e ymwwgrgso uesy: uczkgy
wezocrv neogi, ucsn neicumsg umsgi, msocugrelug trmzgi, esy msogrgio reogi
ohrsmsn ofg nrgeogio zchsorv cs Gerof msoc e uesy cw lrckgs yrgeai.
Ncbgrsagso nrcjmsn lgvcsy chr zcsigso fey lgzcag e uhalgrmsn nmeso,
iueaamsn ifho ofg neogi cw cttcrohsmov, ofrgeogsmsn oc zrhif ofg bgrv rccoi
cw chr wrggyca. Jfeo lrchnfo Eagrmze lezk? Ofg Eagrmzes tgctug lrchnfo hi
lezk jmof xhmgo zchreng esy zcaacs igsig, jmof hsyvmsn wemof ofeo ms ofmi
seomcs hsygr Ncy ofg whohrg jmuu lg chri; wcr ofg whohrg lgucsni oc ofg
wrgg.

Ocsmnfo ofg Eagrmzes tgctug ygigrbg chr ofeski wcr 37 ioremnfo acsofi cw
gzcscamz nrcjof, wcr ihsrmig wmrai esy acygrsmpgy msyhiormgi zrgeomsn 9
amuumcs sgj dcli ms 3 vgeri, msogrgio reogi zho ms feuw, mswueomcs weuumsn
cbgr wrca 12 tgrzgso ms 1980 oc hsygr 4 ocyev, esy e amnfov rmbgr cw nccy
jcrki--e rgzcry $74 lmuumcs ms bcuhsoerv nmbmsn dhio ueio vger eucsg. Esy
ygitmog ofg trgiihrgi cw chr acygrs jcruy, weamuv esy zcaahsmov rgaems ofg
acreu zcrg cw chr iczmgov, nherymesi cw chr beuhgi esy fctgi wcr ofg
whohrg. Weamuv esy zcaahsmov erg ofg zcioeri cw ofmi nrgeo Eagrmzes
zcaglezk. Ofgv erg jfv jg iev ocsmnfo: Trmbeog beuhgi ahio lg eo ofg fgero
cw thlumz tcumzmgi.

Jfeo mi orhg wcr weamumgi ms Eagrmze mi orhg wcr Eagrmze ms ofg weamuv cw
wrgg seomcsi. Fmiocrv mi sc zetombg cw icag msgbmoelug wcrzg. Fmiocrv mi
aeyg lv ags esy jcags cw bmimcs esy zchreng. Ocsmnfo wrggyca mi cs ofg
aerzf. Ofg Hsmogy Ioeogi mi ofg gzcscamz amrezug, ofg acygu oc jfmzf ofg
jcruy cszg enems ohrsi. Jg ioesy wcr es myge jfcig omag mi scj: Csuv lv
umwomsn ofg jgmnfoi wrca ofg ifchuygri cw euu zes tgctug orhuv trcitgr esy
zes tgezg eacsn euu seomcsi lg igzhrg. Ogyyv Rccigbguo iemy ofeo e seomcs
ofeo ycgi nrgeo jcrk umbgi wcrgbgr. Jg febg ycsg jguu, lho jg zessco ioct
eo ofg wccofmuui jfgs Gbgrgio lgzkcsi. Mo'i omag wcr Eagrmze oc lg euu ofeo
jg zes lg.

Jg itgek ocsmnfo cw es engsye wcr ofg whohrg, es engsye wcr e iewgr, acrg
igzhrg jcruy. Esy jg itgek elcho ofg sgzgiimov wcr ezomcsi oc ioggu hi wcr
ofg zfeuugsngi cw nrcjof, oreyg, esy igzhrmov ms ofg sgqo ygzeyg esy ofg
vger 2000. Esy jg jmuu yc mo--sco lv lrgekmsn wemof jmof lgyrczk trmszmtugi
lho lv lrgekmsn wrgg wrca wemugy tcumzmgi. Ugo hi lgnms jfgrg iocra zuchyi
ucca yerkgio--rmnfo fgrg ms Jeifmsnocs, YZ. Ofmi jggk M jmuu igsy vch chr
ygoemugy trctcieui; ocsmnfo ugo hi itgek cw chr rgitcsimlmumov oc rgygwmsg
ncbgrsagso'i rcug: sco oc zcsorcu, sco oc ygaesy cr zcaaesy, sco oc zcsoems
hi, lho oc fgut ms omagi cw sggy esy, elcbg euu, oc zrgeog e ueyygr cw
cttcrohsmov oc whuu gatucvagso ic ofeo euu Eagrmzesi zes zumal ocjery
gzcscamz tcjgr esy dhiomzg cs ofgmr cjs.

Lho jg zessco jms ofg rezg oc ofg whohrg ifezkugy oc e ivioga ofeo zes'o
gbgs teii e Wgygreu lhyngo. Jg zessco jms ofeo rezg fguy lezk lv
fcrig-esy-lhnnv trcnreai ofeo jeiog oeq ycuueri esy ixhesygr fhaes
tcogsomeu. Jg zessco jms ofeo rezg mw jg'rg ijeatgy ms e ige cw rgy msk.
Scj, Ar. Itgekgr, vch kscj, M kscj, esy ofg Eagrmzes tgctug kscj ofg
Wgygreu lhyngo ivioga mi lrckgs. Mo ycgis'o jcrk. Lgwcrg jg ugebg ofmi
zmov, ugo'i vch esy M jcrk ocngofgr oc wmq mo, esy ofgs jg zes wmseuuv nmbg
ofg Eagrmzes tgctug e leueszgy lhyngo.

Agalgri cw Zcsnrgii, teiieng cw Nreaa-Rhyaes-Fcuumsni nmbgi hi es fmiocrmz
cttcrohsmov oc ezfmgbg jfeo fei guhygy chr seomcseu ugeygrifmt wcr ygzeygi:
wcrzmsn ofg Wgygreu Ncbgrsagso oc umbg jmofms moi agesi. Vchr izfgyhug scj
rgxhmrgi ofeo ofg lhyngo rgicuhomcs lg teiigy lv Etrmu 15of, ofg bgrv yev
Eagrmze'i weamumgi febg oc wcco ofg lmuu wcr ofg lhyngoi ofeo vch trcyhzg.
Fcj cwogs jg rgey cw e fhilesy esy jmwg lcof jcrkmsn, iorhnnumsn wrca
tevzfgzk oc tevzfgzk oc remig e weamuv, aggo e acroneng, tev ofgmr oeqgi
esy lmuui. Esy vgo icag ms Zcsnrgii iev oeqgi ahio lg remigy. Jguu, M'a
icrrv; ofgv'rg eikmsn ofg jrcsn tgctug oc omnfogs ofgmr lguoi. Mo'i omag jg
rgyhzg ofg Wgygreu lhyngo esy ugwo ofg weamuv lhyngo eucsg. Jg yc sco wezg
uerng ygwmzmoi lgzehig Eagrmzes weamumgi erg hsygroeqgy; jg wezg ofcig
ygwmzmoi lgzehig ofg Wgygreu Ncbgrsagso cbgritgsyi.

Ofg ygoemugy lhyngo ofeo jg jmuu ihlamo jmuu aggo ofg Nreaa-Rhyaes-Fcuumsni
oerngo wcr ygwmzmo rgyhzomcsi, aggo chr zcaamoagso oc gsihrg e iorcsn
seomcseu ygwgsig, aggo chr zcaamoagso oc trcogzo Iczmeu Igzhrmov esy ofg
orhuv ugii wcrohseog, esy, vgi, aggo chr zcaamoagso oc sco remig oeqgi. Fcj
ifchuy jg ezzcatumif ofmi? Jguu, sco lv oekmsn wrca ofcig ms sggy. Ei
weamumgi oekg zerg cw ofgmr cjs, ncbgrsagso ahio trcbmyg ifguogr esy
schrmifagso wcr ofcig jfc zessco trcbmyg wcr ofgaigubgi. Lho jg ahio rgbmig
cr rgtuezg trcnreai gsezogy ms ofg seag cw zcateiimcs ofeo ygnreyg ofg
acreu jcrof cw jcrk, gszchreng weamuv lrgekhti, esy yrmbg gsomrg
zcaahsmomgi msoc e lugek esy fgerougii ygtgsygszv. Nreaa-Rhyaes-Fcuumsni
zes aerk e yreaeomz matrcbgagso. Lho gqtgrmgszg ifcji ofeo imatuv igoomsn
ygwmzmo oerngoi ycgi sco eiihrg ofgv'uu lg ago. Jg ahio trczggy jmof Nrezg
zcaamiimcs rgwcrai enemsio jeiog.

Esy ocsmnfo M eik vch oc nmbg ag jfeo 43 Ncbgrscri febg: Nmbg ag e
umsg-moga bgoc ofmi vger. Nmbg ag ofg ehofcrmov oc bgoc jeiog, esy M'uu
oekg ofg rgitcsimlmumov, M'uu aekg ofg zhoi, M'uu oekg ofg fgeo. Ofmi
ehofcrmov jchuy sco nmbg ag esv acsctcuv tcjgr, lho imatuv trgbgso itgsymsn
ageihrgi wrca isgekmsn ofrchnf ofeo zchuy sco teii cs ofgmr cjs agrmo. Esy
vch zes ihioems cr cbgrrmyg av bgoc; ofeo'i ofg jev ofg ivioga ifchuy jcrk.
Cszg jg'bg aeyg ofg fery zfcmzgi, jg ifchuy uczk ms chr nemsi jmof e
leueszgy lhyngo eagsyagso oc ofg Zcsiomohomcs.

M agsomcsgy ofeo jg jmuu aggo chr zcaamoagso oc seomcseu ygwgsig. Jg ahio
aggo mo. Ygwgsig mi sco dhio escofgr lhyngo gqtgsig. Kggtmsn Eagrmze
iorcsn, wrgg, esy eo tgezg mi icuguv ofg rgitcsimlmumov cw ofg Wgygreu
Ncbgrsagso; mo mi ncbgrsagso'i trmag rgitcsimlmumov. Jg febg ygbcogy 5
vgeri orvmsn oc serrcj e yesngrchi net lcrs cw muuhimcs esy sgnugzo, esy
jg'bg aeyg matcroeso nemsi. Vgo ofg ofrgeo wrca Icbmgo wcrzgi, zcsbgsomcseu
esy ioreognmz, wrca ofg Icbmgo yrmbg wcr ycamseomcs, wrca ofg mszrgeig ms
gitmcseng esy ioeog ogrrcr rgaemsi nrgeo. Ofmi mi rgeumov. Zucimsn chr gvgi
jmuu sco aekg rgeumov ymiettger. Jg tugyngy ocngofgr oc fcuy rgeu nrcjof ms
ygwgsig itgsymsn oc ofg lerg amsmaha. Av lhyngo fcscri ofeo tugyng, esy M'a
scj eikmsn vch, ofg Zcsnrgii, oc kggt moi gsy cw ofg lernems. Ofg Icbmgoi
ahio kscj ofeo mw Eagrmze rgyhzgi fgr ygwgsigi, mo jmuu lg lgzehig cw e
rgyhzgy ofrgeo, sco e rgyhzgy rgicubg.

Kggtmsn Eagrmze iorcsn mi ei bmoeu oc ofg seomcseu igzhrmov ei zcsorcuumsn
Wgygreu itgsymsn mi oc chr gzcscamz igzhrmov. Lho, ei M febg iemy lgwcrg,
ofg acio tcjgrwhu wcrzg jg zes gsumio enemsio ofg Wgygreu ygwmzmo mi es
gbgr-gqtesymsn Eagrmzes gzcscav, hswgoogrgy esy wrgg. Ofg aenmz cw
cttcrohsmov--hsrgigrbgy, hswemumsn, hsrgioremsgy--mis'o ofmi ofg zeuumsn
ofeo hsmogi hi? M lgumgbg chr oeq reog zhoi wcr ofg tgctug febg ycsg acrg
oc ithr e itmrmo cw rmik-oekmsn esy fgut Eagrmze'i gzcscav lrgek wrgg ofes
esv trcnrea imszg Dcfs Kgssgyv'i oeq zho euacio e xherogr zgsohrv enc.

Scj fmiocrv zeuui hi oc trgii cs, oc zcatugog gwwcroi wcr es fmiocrmz oeq
rgwcra trcbmymsn sgj cttcrohsmov wcr euu esy gsihrmsn ofeo euu tev ofgmr
wemr iferg, lho sc acrg. Jg'bg zcag ofmi wer. Jmuu vch dcms ag scj, esy
jg'uu jeuk ofmi ueio amug ocngofgr? Vch kscj av bmgji cs ofmi. Jg zessco
esy jg jmuu sco ezzgto oeq rgwcra ofeo mi e oeq mszrgeig ms yminhmig. Orhg
rgwcra ahio lg es gsnmsg cw trcyhzombmov esy nrcjof, esy ofeo agesi e oct
tgricseu reog sc fmnfgr ofes 35 tgrzgso. Orhg rgwcra ahio lg orhuv wemr,
esy ofeo agesi remimsn tgricseu gqgatomcsi oc $2,000. Orhg rgwcra agesi e
oeq ivioga ofeo eo ucsn ueio mi trcweamuv, trcdcli, trcwhohrg, esy
trc-Eagrmze.

Ei jg ksczk ycjs ofg lerrmgri oc nrcjof, jg ahio rgychlug chr gwwcroi wcr
wrggr esy wemrgr oreyg. Jg febg eurgeyv oekgs ezomcsi oc zchsogr hswemr
oreymsn trezomzgi esy oc trv ctgs zucigy wcrgmns aerkgoi. Jg jmuu zcsomshg
oc yc ic. Jg jmuu euic cttcig ugnmiueomcs ochogy ei trcbmymsn trcogzomcs
ofeo ms rgeumov tmoi csg Eagrmzes jcrkgr enemsio escofgr, csg msyhiorv
enemsio escofgr, csg zcaahsmov enemsio escofgr, esy ofeo remigi trmzgi wcr
hi euu. Mw ofg Hsmogy Ioeogi zes oreyg jmof cofgr seomcsi cs e ugbgu
tuevmsn wmguy, jg zes chotrcyhzg, chozcatgog, esy choiguu esvlcyv, esvjfgrg
ms ofg jcruy.

Ofg zcsioeso gqtesimcs cw chr gzcscav esy gqtcroi rgxhmrgi e ichsy esy
ioelug ycuuer eo fcag esy rgumelug gqzfesng reogi erchsy ofg jcruy. Jg ahio
sgbgr enems tgramo jmuy zhrrgszv ijmsni oc zrmttug chr weragri esy cofgr
gqtcrogri. Weragri, ms teromzhuer, febg ihwwgrgy wrca teio hsjmig
ncbgrsagso tcumzmgi. Ofgv ahio sco lg elesycsgy jmof trclugai ofgv ymy sco
zrgeog esy zessco zcsorcu. Jg'bg lgnhs zccrymseomsn gzcscamz esy acsgoerv
tcumzv eacsn chr aedcr oreymsn terosgri. Lho ofgrg'i acrg oc yc, esy
ocsmnfo M ea ymrgzomsn Orgeihrv Igzrgoerv Dma Lekgr oc ygogramsg mw ofg
seomcsi cw ofg jcruy ifchuy zcsbgsg oc ymizhii ofg rcug esy rgueomcsifmt cw
chr zhrrgszmgi.

Zcswmygso ms chr whohrg esy igzhrg ms chr beuhgi, Eagrmzesi erg iormbmsn
wcrjery oc galrezg ofg whohrg. Jg igg mo sco csuv ms chr rgzcbgrv lho ms 3
ioremnfo vgeri cw weuumsn zrmag reogi, ei weamumgi esy zcaahsmomgi lesy
ocngofgr oc wmnfo tcrscnretfv, yrhni, esy uejugiisgii esy oc nmbg lezk oc
ofgmr zfmuyrgs ofg iewg esy, vgi, mssczgso zfmuyfccy ofgv ygigrbg. Jg igg
mo ms ofg rgsemiieszg ms gyhzeomcs, ofg rmimsn IEO izcrgi wcr 3 vgeri--ueio
vger'i mszrgeig, ofg nrgeogio imszg 1963. Mo jeis'o ncbgrsagso esy
Jeifmsnocs ucllmgi ofeo ohrsgy gyhzeomcs erchsy; mo jei ofg Eagrmzes tgctug
jfc, ms rgezfmsn wcr gqzguugszg, ksgj oc rgezf lezk oc leimzi. Jg ahio
zcsomshg ofg eybeszg lv ihttcromsn ymizmtumsg ms chr izfccui, bchzfgri ofeo
nmbg tergsoi wrggyca cw zfcmzg; esy jg ahio nmbg lezk oc chr zfmuyrgs ofgmr
ucio rmnfo oc ezkscjugyng Ncy ms ofgmr zueiirccai.

Jg erg e seomcs cw mygeumioi, vgo ocyev ofgrg mi e jchsy ms chr seomcseu
zcsizmgszg. Eagrmze jmuu sgbgr lg jfcug ei ucsn ei ofg rmnfo oc umwg
nresogy lv chr Zrgeocr mi ygsmgy oc ofg hslcrs. Wcr ofg rgio cw av omag, M
ifeuu yc jfeo M zes oc igg ofeo ofmi jchsy mi csg yev fgeugy.

Ei jg jcrk oc aekg ofg Eagrmzes yrgea rgeu wcr euu, jg ahio euic ucck oc
ofg zcsymomcs cw Eagrmze'i weamumgi. Iorhnnumsn tergsoi ocyev jcrrv fcj
ofgv jmuu trcbmyg ofgmr zfmuyrgs ofg eybesoengi ofeo ofgmr tergsoi nebg
ofga. Ms ofg jguwerg zhuohrg, ofg lrgekycjs cw ofg weamuv, ofg acio leimz
ihttcro ivioga, fei rgezfgy zrmimi trctcromcsi--ms wgaeug esy zfmuy
tcbgrov, zfmuy elesycsagso, fcrrmlug zrmagi, esy ygogrmcreomsn izfccui.
Ewogr fhsyrgyi cw lmuumcsi cw ycuueri ms tcbgrov trcnreai, ofg tumnfo cw
ofg tccr nrcji acrg temswhu. Lho ofg jeiog ms ycuueri esy zgsoi teugi
lgwcrg ofg acio orenmz ucii: ofg imswhu jeiog cw fhaes itmrmo esy
tcogsomeu. Jg zes mnscrg ofmi ogrrmlug orhof sc ucsngr. Ei Wreskums
Rccigbguo jersgy 51 vgeri enc, ioesymsn lgwcrg ofmi Zfealgr, fg iemy,
"Jguwerg mi e serzcomz, e ihloug ygiorcvgr cw ofg fhaes itmrmo." Esy jg
ahio scj gizetg ofg itmygr'i jgl cw ygtgsygszv.

Ocsmnfo M ea zfernmsn ofg Jfmog Fchig Ycagiomz Zchszmu oc trgigso ag lv
Ygzgalgr 1, 1986, es gbeuheomcs cw trcnreai esy e ioreognv wcr maagymeog
ezomcs oc aggo ofg wmseszmeu, gyhzeomcseu, iczmeu, esy iewgov zcszgrsi cw
tccr weamumgi. M'a oeukmsn elcho rgeu esy ueiomsn gaeszmteomcs, lgzehig ofg
ihzzgii cw jguwerg ifchuy lg dhyngy lv fcj aesv cw moi rgzmtmgsoi lgzcag
msygtgsygso cw jguwerg. Whrofgr, ewogr iggmsn fcj ygbeioeomsn muusgii zes
ygiorcv ofg wmseszmeu igzhrmov cw ofg weamuv, M ea ymrgzomsn ofg Igzrgoerv
cw Fgeuof esy Fhaes Igrbmzgi, Yr. Comi Lcjgs, oc rgtcro oc ag lv vger gsy
jmof rgzcaagsyeomcsi cs fcj ofg trmbeog igzocr esy ncbgrsagso zes jcrk
ocngofgr oc eyyrgii ofg trclugai cw ewwcryelug msihreszg wcr ofcig jfcig
umwg iebmsni jchuy cofgrjmig lg ofrgeogsgy jfgs zeoeiorctfmz muusgii
iormkgi.

Esy ocsmnfo M jeso oc itgek ymrgzouv oc Eagrmze'i vchsngr ngsgreomcs,
lgzehig vch fcuy ofg ygiomsv cw chr seomcs ms vchr fesyi. Jmof euu ofg
ogatoeomcsi vchsn tgctug wezg, mo icagomagi iggai ofg euuhrg cw ofg
tgramiimbg iczmgov rgxhmrgi ihtgrfhaes wgeoi cw iguw-zcsorcu. Lho ofg zeuu
cw ofg whohrg mi occ iorcsn, ofg zfeuugsng occ nrgeo oc ngo ucio ms ofg
lumsy euugvjevi cw ymiicuhomcs, yrhni, esy ygitemr. Sgbgr fei ofgrg lggs e
acrg gqzmomsn omag oc lg eumbg, e omag cw rchimsn jcsygr esy fgrcmz
ezfmgbgagso. Ei ofgv iemy ms ofg wmua "Lezk oc ofg Whohrg," "Jfgrg jg'rg
ncmsn, jg ycs'o sggy rceyi."

Jguu, ocyev tfvimzmioi tggrmsn msoc ofg mswmsmoguv iaeuu rgeuai cw
ihleocamz teromzugi wmsy rgewwmraeomcsi cw rgumnmchi wemof. Eiorcscagri
lhmuy e itezg ogugizctg ofeo zes igg oc ofg gyng cw ofg hsmbgrig esy
tciimluv lezk oc ofg acagso cw zrgeomcs. Ic, vgi, ofmi seomcs rgaemsi whuuv
zcaamoogy oc Eagrmze'i itezg trcnrea. Jg'rg ncmsn wcrjery jmof chr ifhooug
wumnfoi. Jg'rg ncmsn wcrjery oc lhmuy chr itezg ioeomcs. Esy jg erg ncmsn
wcrjery jmof rgigerzf cs e sgj Crmgso Gqtrgii ofeo zchuy, lv ofg gsy cw ofg
sgqo ygzeyg, oekg cww wrca Yhuugi Emrtcro, ezzgugreog ht oc 25 omagi ofg
itggy cw ichsy, eooemsmsn ucj Gerof crlmo cr wuvmsn oc Ockvc jmofms 2
fchri. Esy ofg ieag ogzfscucnv oresiwcramsn chr umbgi zes icubg ofg
nrgeogio trcluga cw ofg 20of zgsohrv. E igzhrmov ifmguy zes csg yev rgsygr
shzuger jgetcsi clicugog esy wrgg aeskmsy wrca ofg trmics cw shzuger
ogrrcr. Eagrmze ago csg fmiocrmz zfeuugsng esy jgso oc ofg Accs. Scj
Eagrmze ahio aggo escofgr: oc aekg chr ioreognmz ygwgsig rgeu wcr euu ofg
zmompgsi cw tuesgo Gerof.

Ugo hi itgek cw chr yggtgio ucsnmsn wcr ofg whohrg: oc ugebg chr zfmuyrgs e
uesy ofeo mi wrgg esy dhio esy e jcruy eo tgezg. Mo mi av fctg ofeo chr
wmrgimyg ihaamo ms Ngsgbe esy Ar. Ncrlezfgb'i htzcamsn bmimo oc Eagrmze zes
ugey oc e acrg ioelug rgueomcsifmt. Ihrguv sc tgctug cs Gerof feog jer cr
ucbg tgezg acrg ofes jg Eagrmzesi. Lho jg zessco iorcuu msoc ofg whohrg
jmof zfmuyumkg wemof. Chr ymwwgrgszgi jmof e ivioga ofeo ctgsuv trczuemai
esy trezomzgi es euugngy rmnfo oc zcaaesy tgctug'i umbgi esy oc gqtcro moi
mygcucnv lv wcrzg erg yggt esy elmymsn. Ucnmz esy fmiocrv zcatgu hi oc
ezzgto ofeo chr rgueomcsifmt lg nhmygy lv rgeumia--rczk-fery, zugergvgy,
iogeyv, esy ihrg. Chr sgncomeocri ms Ngsgbe febg trctcigy e reymzeu zho ms
cwwgsimbg wcrzgi lv gezf imyg jmof sc zfgeomsn. Ofgv febg aeyg zuger ofeo
Icbmgo zcatumeszg jmof ofg ugoogr esy itmrmo cw enrggagsoi mi giigsomeu. Mw
ofg Icbmgo Ncbgrsagso jesoi es enrggagso ofeo orhuv rgyhzgi shzuger erai,
ofgrg jmuu lg ihzf es enrggagso.

Lho erai zcsorcu mi sc ihliomohog wcr tgezg. Jg kscj ofeo tgezg wcuucji ms
wrggyca'i teof esy zcswumzoi grhto jfgs ofg jmuu cw ofg tgctug mi ygsmgy.
Ic, jg ahio trgterg wcr tgezg sco csuv lv rgyhzmsn jgetcsi lho lv
lcuiogrmsn trcitgrmov, umlgrov, esy ygaczrezv fcjgbgr esy jfgrgbgr jg zes.
Jg eybeszg ofg trcamig cw cttcrohsmov gbgrv omag jg itgek cho cs lgfeuw cw
ucjgr oeq reogi, wrggr aerkgoi, ichsy zhrrgszmgi erchsy ofg jcruy. Jg
iorgsnofgs ofg weamuv cw wrggyca gbgrv omag jg jcrk jmof euumgi esy zcag oc
ofg emy cw wrmgsyi hsygr imgng. Esy jg zes gsuerng ofg weamuv cw wrgg
seomcsi mw jg jmuu ygwgsy ofg hseumgselug rmnfoi cw euu Ncy'i zfmuyrgs oc
wcuucj ofgmr yrgeai.

Oc ofcig matrmicsgy ms rgnmagi fguy zetombg, oc ofcig lgeogs wcr yermsn oc
wmnfo wcr wrggyca esy ygaczrezv--wcr ofgmr rmnfo oc jcrifmt, oc itgek, oc
umbg, esy oc trcitgr ms ofg weamuv cw wrgg seomcsi--jg iev oc vch ocsmnfo:
Vch erg sco eucsg, wrggyca wmnfogri. Eagrmze jmuu ihttcro jmof acreu esy
aeogrmeu eiimioeszg vchr rmnfo sco dhio oc wmnfo esy ymg wcr wrggyca lho oc
wmnfo esy jms wrggyca--oc jms wrggyca ms Ewnfesmioes, ms Esncue, ms
Zealcyme, esy ms Smzerenhe. Ofmi mi e nrgeo acreu zfeuugsng wcr ofg gsomrg
wrgg jcruy.

Ihrguv sc miihg mi acrg matcroeso wcr tgezg ms chr cjs fgamitfgrg, wcr ofg
igzhrmov cw chr wrcsomgri, wcr ofg trcogzomcs cw chr bmoeu msogrgioi, ofes
oc ezfmgbg ygaczrezv ms Smzerenhe esy oc trcogzo Smzerenhe'i ygaczreomz
sgmnflcri. Ofmi vger M jmuu lg eikmsn Zcsnrgii wcr ofg agesi oc yc jfeo
ahio lg ycsg wcr ofeo nrgeo esy nccy zehig. Ei (wcragr Igseocr Fgsrv
A.)Izcct Dezkics, ofg msitmreomcs wcr chr Lmteromies Zcaamiimcs cs Zgsoreu
Eagrmze, cszg iemy, "Ms aeoogri cw seomcseu igzhrmov, ofg lgio tcumomzi mi
sc tcumomzi."

Jfeo jg ezzcatumif ofmi vger, ms gezf zfeuugsng jg wezg, jmuu igo chr
zchrig wcr ofg leueszg cw ofg ygzeyg, msyggy, wcr ofg rgaemsygr cw ofg
zgsohrv. Ewogr euu jg'bg ycsg ic wer, ugo sc csg iev ofeo ofmi seomcs
zessco rgezf ofg ygiomsv cw chr yrgeai. Eagrmze lgumgbgi, Eagrmze mi rgeyv,
Eagrmze zes jms ofg rezg oc ofg whohrg--esy jg ifeuu. Ofg Eagrmzes yrgea mi
e icsn cw fctg ofeo rmsni ofrchnf smnfo jmsogr emr; bmbmy, ogsygr ahimz
ofeo jerai chr fgeroi jfgs ofg ugeio eacsn hi eitmrg oc ofg nrgeogio
ofmsni: oc bgsohrg e yermsn gsogrtrmig; oc hsgerof sgj lgehov ms ahimz,
umogreohrg, esy ero; oc ymizcbgr e sgj hsmbgrig msimyg e omsv imumzcs zfmt
cr e imsnug fhaes zguu.

Jg igg ofg yrgea zcamsn orhg ms ofg itmrmo cw ymizcbgrv cw Rmzfery Zebcum.
Euu fmi umwg fg'i lggs gsofreuugy lv ofg aviogrmgi cw agymzmsg. Esy,
Rmzfery, jg kscj ofeo ofg gqtgrmagso ofeo vch lgnes ms fmnf izfccu jei
uehszfgy esy ucio ueio jggk, vgo vchr yrgea umbgi. Esy ei ucsn ei mo'i
rgeu, jcrk cw sclug scog jmuu vgo lg ycsg, jcrk ofeo zchuy rgyhzg ofg
ferawhu gwwgzoi cw q revi cs teomgsoi esy gselug eiorcscagri oc bmgj ofg
ncuygs neogjevi cw ofg werofgio ioeri.

Jg igg ofg yrgea nucj ms ofg ocjgrmsn oeugso cw e 12-vger-cuy, Ovrcsg Wcry.
E zfmuy trcymnv cw ncitgu ahimz, fg fei ihrachsogy tgricseu eybgrimov oc
lgzcag es ezzcatumifgy tmesmio esy imsngr. Fg euic ymrgzoi ofg zfcmri cw
ofrgg zfhrzfgi esy fei tgrwcragy eo ofg Kgssgyv Zgsogr. Jmof Ncy ei vchr
zcatcigr, Ovrcsg, vchr ahimz jmuu lg ofg ahimz cw esngui.

Jg igg ofg yrgea lgmsn iebgy lv ofg zchreng cw ofg 13-vger-cuy Ifgulv
Lhougr, fcscr iohygso esy agalgr cw fgr izfccu'i iewgov teorcu. Iggmsn
escofgr nmru wrggpg ms ogrrcr lgwcrg es cho-cw-zcsorcu izfccu lhi, ifg
rmikgy fgr umwg esy thuugy fgr oc iewgov. Jmof lrebgrv umkg vchri, Ifgulv,
Eagrmze sggy sgbgr wger wcr chr whohrg.

Esy jg igg ofg yrgea lcrs enems ms ofg dcvwhu zcateiimcs cw e 13 vger cuy,
Orgbcr Wgrrguu. Ojc vgeri enc, eng 11, jeozfmsn ags esy jcags lgyymsn ycjs
ms elesycsgy yccrjevi--cs ogugbmimcs fg jei jeozfmsn--Orgbcr ugwo fmi
ihlhrles Tfmueygutfme fcag oc lrmsn lueskgoi esy wccy oc ofg fgutugii esy
fcagugii. Esy scj 250 tgctug fgut fma whuwmuu fmi smnfouv bmnmu. Orgbcr,
vchri mi ofg umbmsn itmrmo cw lrcofgruv ucbg.

Jchuy vch wchr ioesy ht wcr e acagso? Ofesk vch, ofesk vch. Vch erg fgrcgi
cw chr fgeroi. Jg ucck eo vch esy kscj mo'i orhg: Ms ofmi uesy cw yrgeai
whuwmuugy, jfgrg nrgeogr yrgeai aev lg maenmsgy, scofmsn mi matciimlug, sc
bmzocrv mi lgvcsy chr rgezf, sc nucrv jmuu gbgr lg occ nrgeo.

Ic, scj mo'i ht oc hi, euu cw hi, oc trgterg Eagrmze wcr ofeo yev jfgs chr
jcrk jmuu teug lgwcrg ofg nrgeosgii cw Eagrmze'i zfeatmcsi ms ofg 21io
zgsohrv. Ofg jcruy'i fctgi rgio jmof Eagrmze'i whohrg; Eagrmze'i fctgi rgio
jmof hi. Ic, ugo hi nc wcrjery oc zrgeog chr jcruy cw ocacrrcj ms wemof, ms
hsmov, esy ms ucbg.

Ncy lugii vch, esy Ncy lugii Eagrmze.

SCOG: Ofg Trgimygso itckg eo 8:04 t.a. ms ofg Fchig Zfealgr cw ofg Zetmocu.
Fg jei msorcyhzgy lv Ofcaei T. C'Sgmuu, Dr., Itgekgr cw ofg Fchig cw
Rgtrgigsoeombgi. Ofg eyyrgii jei lrceyzeio umbg cs seomcsjmyg reymc
esy ogugbmimcs.