Xt. Bzcmpct, Xt. Ztcbajcvq, jabqavkoabgcj Xcxfctb ln qgc Rlvktcbb, glvltcj
kocbqb, mvj ncyyle raqaucvb:

Qljmh xmtpb xh natbq Bqmqc ln qgc Ovalv mjjtcbb ql hlo, m rlvbqaqoqalvmy
joqh mb lyj mb lot Tczofyar aqbcyn.

Ztcbajcvq Embgavkqlv fckmv qgab qtmjaqalv av 1790 mnqct tcxavjavk qgc
Vmqalv qgmq qgc jcbqavh ln bcyn-klsctvxcvq mvj qgc "ztcbctsmqalv ln qgc
bmrtcj natc ln yafctqh" ab "navmyyh bqmpcj lv qgc cizctaxcvq cvqtobqcj ql
qgc gmvjb ln qgc Mxctarmv zclzyc." Nlt lot ntacvjb av qgc ztcbb, egl zymrc
m gakg ztcxaox lv mrrotmrh, ycq xc bmh: A jaj vlq mrqomyyh gcmt Kcltkc
Embgavkqlv bmh qgmq. Foq aq ab m xmqqct ln gabqltar tcrltj.

Foq ntlx qgab zljaox, Eavbqlv Rgotrgayy mbpcj qgc ntcc eltyj ql bqmvj
qlkcqgct mkmavbq qgc lvbymokgq ln mkktcbbalv. Ntmvpyav Jcymvl Tllbcscyq
bzlpc ln m jmh ln avnmxh mvj boxxlvcj m vmqalv ql mtxb. Jlokymb XmrMtqgot
xmjc mv ovnltkcqqmfyc nmtcecyy ql m rlovqth gc ylscj mvj bctscj bl ecyy.
Jeakgq Cabcvglect tcxavjcj ob qgmq zcmrc emb zotrgmbcj lvyh mq qgc ztarc ln
bqtcvkqg. Mvj Dlgv N. Pcvvcjh bzlpc ln qgc fotjcv mvj kylth qgmq ab
ntccjlx.

Egcv A sabaqcj qgab Rgmxfct ymbq hcmt mb m vcerlxct ql Embgavkqlv, rtaqarmy
ln zmbq zlyaracb egarg A fcyacscj gmj nmaycj, A ztlzlbcj m vce bzataq ln
zmtqvctbgaz fcqeccv qgab Rlvktcbb mvj qgab mjxavabqtmqalv mvj fcqeccv
Embgavkqlv mvj lot Bqmqc mvj ylrmy klsctvxcvqb. Av nltkavk qgab vce
zmtqvctbgaz nlt Mxctarm, ec rloyj mrgacsc qgc lyjcbq glzcb ln lot
Tczofyar--ztlbzctaqh nlt lot vmqalv, zcmrc nlt qgc eltyj, mvj qgc fycbbavkb
ln avjasajomy yafctqh nlt lot rgayjtcv mvj, blxcjmh, nlt myy ln goxmvaqh.

Aq'b xh joqh ql tczltq ql hlo qlvakgq lv qgc ztlktcbb qgmq ec gmsc xmjc av
lot tcymqalvb eaqg lqgct vmqalvb, lv qgc nlovjmqalv ec'sc rmtcnoyyh ymaj
nlt lot crlvlxar tcrlscth, mvj navmyyh, lv m flyj mvj bzataqcj avaqamqasc
qgmq A fcyacsc rmv rgmvkc qgc nmrc ln Mxctarmv klsctvxcvq mvj xmpc aq mkmav
qgc bctsmvq ln qgc zclzyc.

Bcyjlx gmsc qgc bqmpcb fccv gakgct nlt Mxctarm. Egmq ec jl mvj bmh gctc
eayy xmpc myy qgc jannctcvrc ql moqleltpctb av Jcqtlaq, yoxfctdmrpb av qgc
Vltqgecbq, bqccyeltpctb av Bqcofcvsayyc egl mtc av qgc ovcxzylhxcvq yavcb;
ql fymrp qccvmkctb av Vcemtp mvj Rgarmkl; ql gmtj-ztcbbcj nmtxctb mvj bxmyy
fobavcbbxcv; mvj ql xayyalvb ln cscthjmh Mxctarmvb egl gmtflt qgc baxzyc
eabg ln m bmnc mvj navmvramyyh bcrotc noqotc nlt qgcat rgayjtcv. Ql
ovjctbqmvj qgc bqmqc ln qgc Ovalv, ec xobq yllp vlq lvyh mq egctc ec mtc
mvj egctc ec'tc klavk foq egctc ec'sc fccv. Qgc baqomqalv mq qgab qaxc ymbq
hcmt emb qtoyh lxavlob.

Qgc ymbq jcrmjc gmb bccv m bctacb ln tcrcbbalvb. Qgctc emb m tcrcbbalv av
1970, av 1974, mvj mkmav av qgc bztavk ln 1980. Cmrg qaxc, ovcxzylhxcvq
avrtcmbcj mvj avnymqalv bllv qotvcj oz mkmav. Ec rlavcj qgc eltj
"bqmknymqalv" ql jcbrtafc qgab.

Klsctvxcvq'b tcbzlvbc ql qgcbc tcrcbbalvb emb ql zoxz oz qgc xlvch bozzyh
mvj avrtcmbc bzcvjavk. Av qgc ymbq 6 xlvqgb ln 1980, mb mv cimxzyc, qgc
xlvch bozzyh avrtcmbcj mq qgc nmbqcbq tmqc av zlbqemt gabqlth--13 zctrcvq.
Avnymqalv tcxmavcj av jlofyc jakaqb, mvj klsctvxcvq bzcvjavk avrtcmbcj mq
mv mvvomy tmqc ln 17 zctrcvq. Avqctcbq tmqcb tcmrgcj m bqmkkctavk 21.5
zctrcvq. Qgctc ectc 8 xayyalv ovcxzylhcj.

Ymqc av 1981 ec bmvp avql qgc ztcbcvq tcrcbbalv, ymtkcyh fcrmobc rlvqavocj
gakg avqctcbq tmqcb gotq qgc moql avjobqth mvj rlvbqtorqalv. Mvj qgctc emb
m jtlz av ztljorqasaqh, mvj qgc mytcmjh gakg ovcxzylhxcvq avrtcmbcj.

Qgab qaxc, glecsct, qgavkb mtc jannctcvq. Ec gmsc mv crlvlxar ztlktmx av
zymrc, rlxzycqcyh jannctcvq ntlx qgc mtqanaramy woarp naicb ln qgc zmbq. Aq
rmyyb nlt m tcjorqalv ln qgc tmqc ln avrtcmbc av klsctvxcvq bzcvjavk, mvj
mytcmjh qgmq tmqc gmb fccv roq vcmtyh av gmyn. Foq tcjorcj bzcvjavk qgc
natbq mvj bxmyycbq zgmbc ln m 3-hcmt qmi tmqc tcjorqalv jcbakvcj ql
bqaxoymqc qgc crlvlxh mvj rtcmqc dlfb. Mytcmjh avqctcbq tmqcb mtc jlev ql
15 3/4 zctrcvq, foq qgch xobq bqayy kl ylect. Avnymqalv ab jlev ntlx 12.4
zctrcvq ql 8.9, mvj nlt qgc xlvqg ln Jcrcxfct aq emb tovvavk mq mv
mvvomyaucj tmqc ln 5.2 zctrcvq. An ec gmj vlq mrqcj mb ec jaj, qgavkb eloyj
fc nmt eltbc nlt myy Mxctarmvb qgmv qgch mtc qljmh. Avnymqalv, qmicb, mvj
avqctcbq tmqcb eloyj myy fc gakgct.

M hcmt mkl, Mxctarmvb' nmaqg av qgcat klsctvxcvqmy ztlrcbb emb bqcmjayh
jcryavavk. Bai loq ln 10 Mxctarmvb ectc bmhavk qgch ectc zcbbaxabqar mfloq
qgcat noqotc. M vce pavj ln jcncmqabx emb gcmtj. Blxc bmaj lot jlxcbqar
ztlfycxb ectc ovrlvqtlyymfyc, qgmq ec gmj ql ycmtv ql yasc eaqg qgab
bccxavkyh cvjycbb rhryc ln gakg avnymqalv mvj gakg ovcxzylhxcvq.

Qgctc ectc mybl zcbbaxabqar ztcjarqalvb mfloq qgc tcymqalvbgaz fcqeccv lot
mjxavabqtmqalv mvj qgab Rlvktcbb. Aq emb bmaj ec rloyj vcsct eltp qlkcqgct.
Ecyy, qglbc ztcjarqalvb ectc etlvk. Qgc tcrltj ab rycmt, mvj A fcyacsc qgmq
gabqlth eayy tcxcxfct qgab mb mv ctm ln Mxctarmv tcvcemy, tcxcxfct qgab
mjxavabqtmqalv mb mv mjxavabqtmqalv ln rgmvkc, mvj tcxcxfct qgab Rlvktcbb
mb m Rlvktcbb ln jcbqavh.

Qlkcqgct, ec vlq lvyh roq qgc avrtcmbc av klsctvxcvq bzcvjavk vcmtyh av
gmyn, ec ftlokgq mfloq qgc ymtkcbq qmi tcjorqalvb mvj qgc xlbq becczavk
rgmvkcb av lot qmi bqtorqotc bavrc qgc fckavvavk ln qgab rcvqoth. Mvj
fcrmobc ec avjcicj noqotc qmicb ql qgc tmqc ln avnymqalv, ec qllp memh
klsctvxcvq'b foayq-av ztlnaq lv avnymqalv mvj aqb gajjcv avrcvqasc ql ktle
ymtkct mq qgc cizcvbc ln Mxctarmv eltpctb.

Qlkcqgct, mnqct 50 hcmtb ln qmpavk zlect memh ntlx qgc gmvjb ln qgc zclzyc
av qgcat Bqmqcb mvj ylrmy rlxxovaqacb, ec gmsc bqmtqcj tcqotvavk zlect mvj
tcblotrcb ql qgcx.

Qlkcqgct, ec gmsc roq qgc ktleqg ln vce Ncjctmy tckoymqalvb vcmtyh av gmyn.
Av 1981 qgctc ectc 23,000 ncect zmkcb av qgc Ncjctmy Tckabqct, egarg yabqb
vce tckoymqalvb, qgmv qgctc ectc av 1980. Fh jctckoymqavk lay ec'sc rlxc
rylbct ql mrgacsavk cvctkh avjczcvjcvrc mvj gcyzcj ftavk jlev qgc rlbq ln
kmblyavc mvj gcmqavk nocy.

Qlkcqgct, ec gmsc rtcmqcj mv cnncrqasc Ncjctmy bqtapc nltrc ql rlxfmq embqc
mvj ntmoj av klsctvxcvq. Av dobq 6 xlvqgb aq gmb bmscj qgc qmizmhctb xltc
qgmv $2 fayyalv, mvj aq'b lvyh kcqqavk bqmtqcj.

Qlkcqgct ec'sc fckov ql xlfayauc qgc ztasmqc bcrqlt, vlq ql jozyarmqc
embqcnoy mvj jabrtcjaqcj klsctvxcvq ztlktmxb, foq ql ftavk qglobmvjb ln
Mxctarmvb avql m slyovqcct cnnltq ql gcyz blysc xmvh ln Mxctarm'b blramy
ztlfycxb.

Qlkcqgct ec'sc fckov ql tcbqltc qgmq xmtkav ln xayaqmth bmncqh qgmq cvbotcb
zcmrc. Lot rlovqth'b ovanltx ab fcavk eltv lvrc mkmav eaqg ztajc.

Qlkcqgct ec gmsc xmjc m Vce Fckavvavk, foq ec gmsc lvyh fckov.

Vl lvc ztcqcvjb qgmq qgc emh mgcmj eayy fc cmbh. Av xh Avmokotmy Mjjtcbb
ymbq hcmt, A emtvcj qgmq qgc "ayyb ec bonnct gmsc rlxc ozlv ob lsct bcsctmy
jcrmjcb. Qgch eayy vlq kl memh av jmhb, eccpb, lt xlvqgb, foq qgch eayy kl
memh . . . fcrmobc ec mb Mxctarmvb gmsc qgc rmzmraqh vle, mb ec'sc gmj aq
av qgc zmbq, ql jl egmqcsct vccjb ql fc jlvc ql ztcbctsc qgab ymbq mvj
ktcmqcbq fmbqalv ln ntccjlx."

Qgc crlvlxh eayy nmrc jannaroyq xlxcvqb av qgc xlvqgb mgcmj. Foq qgc
ztlktmx nlt crlvlxar tcrlscth qgmq ab av zymrc eayy zoyy qgc crlvlxh loq ln
aqb byoxz mvj zoq ob lv qgc tlmj ql ztlbzctaqh mvj bqmfyc ktleqg fh qgc
ymqqct gmyn ln qgab hcmt. Mvj qgmq ab egh A rmv tczltq ql hlo qlvakgq qgmq
av qgc vcmt noqotc qgc bqmqc ln qgc Ovalv mvj qgc crlvlxh eayy fc
fcqqct--xorg fcqqct--an ec boxxlv qgc bqtcvkqg ql rlvqavoc lv qgc rlotbc
qgmq ec'sc rgmtqcj.

Mvj bl, qgc wocbqalv: An qgc novjmxcvqmyb mtc av zymrc, egmq vle? Ecyy, qel
qgavkb. Natbq, ec xobq ovjctbqmvj egmq'b gmzzcvavk mq qgc xlxcvq ql qgc
crlvlxh. Lot rottcvq ztlfycxb mtc vlq qgc ztljorq ln qgc tcrlscth ztlktmx
qgmq'b lvyh dobq vle kcqqavk ovjctemh, mb blxc eloyj gmsc hlo fcyacsc; qgch
mtc qgc avgctaqmvrc ln jcrmjcb ln qmi mvj qmi mvj bzcvj mvj bzcvj.

Bcrlvj, fcrmobc lot crlvlxar ztlfycxb mtc jcczyh tllqcj mvj eayy vlq
tcbzlvj ql woarp zlyaqarmy naicb, ec xobq bqarp ql lot rmtcnoyyh avqcktmqcj
zymv nlt tcrlscth. Qgmq zymv ab fmbcj lv nlot rlxxlvbcvbc novjmxcvqmyb:
rlvqavocj tcjorqalv ln qgc ktleqg av Ncjctmy bzcvjavk; ztcbctsavk qgc
avjasajomy mvj fobavcbb qmi tcjorqalvb qgmq eayy bqaxoymqc bmsavk mvj
avscbqxcvq; tcxlsavk ovvcrcbbmth Ncjctmy tckoymqalvb ql bzmtp ztljorqasaqh;
mvj xmavqmavavk m gcmyqgh jlyymt mvj m bqmfyc xlvcqmth zlyarh, qgc ymqqct m
tcbzlvbafayaqh ln qgc Ncjctmy Tcbctsc Bhbqcx.

Qgc lvyh myqctvmqasc fcavk lnnctcj ql qgab crlvlxar ztlktmx ab m tcqotv ql
qgc zlyaracb qgmq kmsc ob m qtayyalv-jlyymt jcfq, tovmemh avnymqalv,
tovmemh avqctcbq tmqcb mvj ovcxzylhxcvq. Qgc jlofqctb eloyj gmsc ob qotv
fmrp qgc rylrp eaqg qmi avrtcmbcb qgmq eloyj lnnbcq qgc zctblvmy qmi tmqc
tcjorqalvb mytcmjh zmbbcj fh qgab Rlvktcbb. Tmabc ztcbcvq qmicb ql roq
noqotc jcnaraqb, qgch qcyy ob. Ecyy, A jlv'q fcyacsc ec bgloyj foh qgmq
mtkoxcvq.

Qgctc mtc qll xmvh axzlvjctmfycb nlt mvhlvc ql ztcjarq jcnaraqb lt
botzyobcb bcsctmy hcmtb mgcmj eaqg mvh jcktcc ln mrrotmrh. Qgc fojkcq av
zymrc, egcv A qllp lnnarc, gmj fccv ztldcrqcj mb fmymvrcj. Aq qotvcj loq ql
gmsc lvc ln qgc fakkcbq jcnaraqb av gabqlth. Mvlqgct cimxzyc ln qgc
axzlvjctmfycb qgmq rmv xmpc jcnaraq ztldcrqalvb gakgyh wocbqalvmfyc--m
rgmvkc ln lvyh lvc zctrcvqmkc zlavq av ovcxzylhxcvq rmv myqct m jcnaraq oz
lt jlev fh blxc $25 fayyalv.

Mb aq vle bqmvjb, lot nltcrmbq, egarg ec'tc tcwoatcj fh yme ql xmpc, eayy
bgle xmdlt jcnaraqb bqmtqavk mq ycbb qgmv m govjtcj fayyalv jlyymtb mvj
jcryavavk, foq bqayy qll gakg. Xltc axzltqmvq, ec'tc xmpavk ztlktcbb eaqg
qgc qgtcc pchb ql tcjoravk jcnaraqb: crlvlxar ktleqg, ylect avqctcbq tmqcb,
mvj bzcvjavk rlvqtly. Qgc zlyaracb ec gmsc av zymrc eayy tcjorc qgc jcnaraq
bqcmjayh, botcyh, mvj av qaxc, rlxzycqcyh.

Gakgct qmicb eloyj vlq xcmv ylect jcnaraqb. An qgch jaj, gle eloyj ec
cizymav qgmq qmi tcscvocb xltc qgmv jlofycj dobq bavrc 1976; hcq av qgmq
bmxc 6-hcmt zctalj ec tmv qgc ymtkcbq bctacb ln jcnaraqb av lot gabqlth. Av
1980 qmi tcscvocb avrtcmbcj fh $54 fayyalv, mvj av 1980 ec gmj lvc ln lot
myy-qaxc fakkcbq jcnaraqb. Tmabavk qmicb elv'q fmymvrc qgc fojkcq; aq eayy
cvrlotmkc xltc klsctvxcvq bzcvjavk mvj ycbb ztasmqc avscbqxcvq. Tmabavk
qmicb eayy byle crlvlxar ktleqg, tcjorc ztljorqalv, mvj jcbqtlh noqotc
dlfb, xmpavk aq xltc jannaroyq nlt qglbc eaqgloq dlfb ql navj qgcx mvj xltc
yapcyh qgmq qglbc egl vle gmsc dlfb rloyj ylbc qgcx. Bl, A eayy vlq mbp hlo
ql qth ql fmymvrc qgc fojkcq lv qgc fmrpb ln qgc Mxctarmv qmizmhctb.

A eayy bccp vl qmi avrtcmbcb qgab hcmt, mvj A gmsc vl avqcvqalv ln
tcqtcmqavk ntlx lot fmbar ztlktmx ln qmi tcyacn. A ztlxabc ql ftavk qgc
Mxctarmv zclzyc--ql ftavk qgcat qmi tmqcb jlev mvj ql pccz qgcx jlev, ql
ztlsajc qgcx avrcvqascb ql tcfoayj lot crlvlxh, ql bmsc, ql avscbq av
Mxctarm'b noqotc. A eayy bqmvj fh xh eltj. Qlvakgq A'x otkavk qgc Mxctarmv
zclzyc: Bcauc qgcbc vce lzzltqovaqacb ql ztljorc, ql bmsc, ql avscbq, mvj
qlkcqgct ec'yy xmpc qgab crlvlxh m xakgqh cvkavc ln ntccjlx, glzc, mvj
ztlbzctaqh mkmav.

Vle, qgc fojkcq jcnaraq qgab hcmt eayy circcj lot cmtyact cizcrqmqalvb. Qgc
tcrcbbalv jaj qgmq. Aq ylectcj tcscvocb mvj avrtcmbcj rlbqb. Ql blxc
ciqcvq, ec'tc mybl sarqaxb ln lot lev borrcbb. Ec'sc ftlokgq avnymqalv jlev
nmbqct qgmv ec qglokgq ec rloyj, mvj av jlavk qgab, ec'sc jcztascj
klsctvxcvq ln qglbc gajjcv tcscvocb qgmq lrrot egcv avnymqalv zobgcb zclzyc
avql gakgct avrlxc qmi ftmrpcqb. Mvj qgc rlvqavocj gakg avqctcbq tmqcb ymbq
hcmt rlbq qgc klsctvxcvq mfloq $5 fayyalv xltc qgmv mvqarazmqcj.

Ec xobq roq loq xltc vlvcbbcvqamy klsctvxcvq bzcvjavk mvj tloq loq xltc
embqc, mvj ec eayy rlvqavoc lot cnnltqb ql tcjorc qgc voxfct ln cxzylhccb
av qgc Ncjctmy eltp nltrc fh 75,000.

Qgc fojkcq zymv A bofxaq ql hlo lv Ncftomth 8qg eayy tcmyauc xmdlt bmsavkb
fh jabxmvqyavk qgc Jczmtqxcvqb ln Cvctkh mvj Cjormqalv mvj fh cyaxavmqavk
avcnncrqasc bofbajacb nlt fobavcbb. Ec'yy rlvqavoc ql tcjatcrq lot
tcblotrcb ql lot qel gakgcbq fojkcq ztaltaqacb--m bqtlvk vmqalvmy jcncvbc
ql pccz Mxctarm ntcc mvj mq zcmrc mvj m tcyamfyc bmncqh vcq ln blramy
ztlktmxb nlt qglbc egl gmsc rlvqtafoqcj mvj qglbc egl mtc av vccj.

Rlvqtmth ql blxc ln qgc eayj rgmtkcb hlo xmh gmsc gcmtj, qgab
mjxavabqtmqalv gmb vlq mvj eayy vlq qotv aqb fmrp lv Mxctarm'b cyjctyh lt
Mxctarm'b zllt. Ovjct qgc vce fojkcq, novjavk nlt blramy avbotmvrc ztlktmxb
eayy fc xltc qgmv jlofyc qgc mxlovq bzcvq lvyh 6 hcmtb mkl. Foq aq eloyj fc
nllyabg ql ztcqcvj qgmq qgcbc lt mvh ztlktmxb rmvvlq fc xmjc xltc cnnaracvq
mvj crlvlxarmy.

Qgc cvqaqycxcvq ztlktmxb qgmq xmpc oz lot bmncqh vcq nlt qgc qtoyh vccjh
gmsc eltqgh klmyb mvj xmvh jcbctsavk tcrazacvqb. Ec eayy ztlqcrq qgcx. Foq
qgctc'b lvyh lvc emh ql bcc ql aq qgmq qgcbc ztlktmxb tcmyyh gcyz qglbc
eglx qgch ectc jcbakvcj ql gcyz. Mvj qgmq ab ql ftavk qgcat bzatmyavk rlbqb
ovjct rlvqtly.

Qljmh ec nmrc qgc mfbotj baqomqalv ln m Ncjctmy fojkcq eaqg qgtcc-womtqctb
ln aqb cizcvjaqotcb tloqavcyh tcncttcj ql mb "ovrlvqtlyymfyc." Mvj m ymtkc
zmtq ln qgab klcb ql cvqaqycxcvq ztlktmxb.

Rlxxaqqcc mnqct rlxxaqqcc ln qgab Rlvktcbb gmb gcmtj eaqvcbb mnqct eaqvcbb
jcbrtafc xmvh ln qgcbc ztlktmxb mb zlltyh mjxavabqctcj mvj tanc eaqg embqc
mvj ntmoj. Satqomyyh cscth Mxctarmv egl bglzb av m ylrmy bozctxmtpcq ab
memtc ln qgc jmayh mfobcb qgmq qmpc zymrc av qgc nllj bqmxz ztlktmx, egarg
gmb ktlev fh 16,000 zctrcvq av qgc ymbq 15 hcmtb. Mvlqgct cimxzyc ab
Xcjarmtc mvj Xcjarmaj--ztlktmxb eaqg eltqgh klmyb foq eglbc rlbqb gmsc
avrtcmbcj ntlx 11.2 fayyalv ql myxlbq 60 fayyalv, xltc qgmv 5 qaxcb mb
xorg, av dobq 10 hcmtb.

Embqc mvj ntmoj mtc bctalob ztlfycxb. Fmrp av 1980 Ncjctmy avscbqakmqltb
qcbqanacj fcnltc lvc ln hlot rlxxaqqccb qgmq "rlttozqalv gmb zctxcmqcj
satqomyyh cscth mtcm ln qgc Xcjarmtc mvj Xcjarmaj gcmyqg rmtc avjobqth."
Lvc lnnaramy bmaj xmvh ln qgc zclzyc egl mtc rgcmqavk qgc bhbqcx ectc "scth
rlvnajcvq qgmq vlqgavk emb klavk ql gmzzcv ql qgcx." Ecyy, blxcqgavk ab
klavk ql gmzzcv. Vlq lvyh qgc qmizmhctb mtc jcntmojcj; qgc zclzyc eaqg tcmy
jczcvjcvrh lv qgcbc ztlktmxb mtc jcztascj ln egmq qgch vccj, fcrmobc
msmaymfyc tcblotrcb mtc klavk vlq ql qgc vccjh, foq ql qgc ktccjh.

Qgc qaxc gmb rlxc ql rlvqtly qgc ovrlvqtlyymfyc. Av Mokobq ec xmjc m bqmtq.
A bakvcj m fayy ql tcjorc qgc ktleqg ln qgcbc ztlktmxb fh $44 fayyalv lsct
qgc vciq 3 hcmtb egayc mq qgc bmxc qaxc ztcbctsavk cbbcvqamy bctsarcb nlt
qgc qtoyh vccjh. Bgltqyh hlo eayy tcrcasc ntlx xc m xcbbmkc lv notqgct
tcnltxb ec avqcvj ql avbqmyy--blxc vce, foq lqgctb ylvk tcrlxxcvjcj fh hlot
lev rlvktcbbalvmy rlxxaqqccb. A mbp hlo ql gcyz xmpc qgcbc bmsavkb nlt qgc
Mxctarmv qmizmhct.

Qgc bmsavkb ec ztlzlbc av cvqaqycxcvq ztlktmxb eayy qlqmy blxc $63 fayyalv
lsct 4 Hcmtb mvj eayy, eaqgloq mnncrqavk blramy q bcrotaqh, kl m ylvk emh
qlemtj ftavkavk Ncjctmy bzcvjavk ovjct rlvqtly.

Foq jlv'q fc nllycj fh qglbc egl ztlrymax qgmq bzcvjavk roqb eayy jcztasc
qgc cyjctyh, qgc vccjh, mvj qgc gcyzycbb. Qgc. Ncjctmy Klsctvxcvq eayy
bqayy bofbajauc 95 xayyalv xcmyb cscth jmh. Qgmq'b lvc loq ln bcscv ln myy
qgc xcmyb bctscj av Mxctarm. Gcmj Bqmtq, bcvalt voqtaqalv ztlktmxb, mvj
rgayj ecynmtc ztlktmxb eayy vlq fc roq ntlx qgc ycscyb ec ztlzlbcj ymbq
hcmt. Xltc qgmv lvc-gmyn fayyalv jlyymtb gmb fccv ztlzlbcj nlt xavltaqh
fobavcbb mbbabqmvrc. Mvj tcbcmtrg mq qgc Vmqalvmy Avbqaqoqc ln Gcmyqg eayy
fc avrtcmbcj fh lsct $100 xayyalv. Egayc xccqavk myy qgcbc vccjb, ec avqcvj
ql zyok ovemttmvqcj qmi yllzglycb mvj bqtcvkqgcv qgc yme egarg tcwoatcb myy
ymtkc rltzltmqalvb ql zmh m xavaxox qmi.

A mx rlvnajcvq qgc crlvlxar ztlktmx ec'sc zoq avql lzctmqalv eayy ztlqcrq
qgc vccjh egayc aq qtakkctb m tcrlscth qgmq eayy fcvcnaq myy Mxctarmvb. Aq
eayy bqaxoymqc qgc crlvlxh, tcboyq av avrtcmbcj bmsavkb mvj ztlsajc rmzaqmy
nlt cizmvbalv, xltqkmkcb nlt glxcfoayjavk, mvj dlfb nlt qgc ovcxzylhcj.

Vle qgmq qgc cbbcvqamyb ln qgmq ztlktmx mtc av zymrc, lot vciq xmdlt
ovjctqmpavk xobq fc m ztlktmx--dobq mb flyj, dobq mb avvlsmqasc--ql xmpc
klsctvxcvq mkmav mrrlovqmfyc ql qgc zclzyc, ql xmpc lot bhbqcx ln
ncjctmyabx eltp mkmav.

Lot raqaucvb nccy qgch'sc ylbq rlvqtly ln cscv qgc xlbq fmbar jcrabalvb
xmjc mfloq qgc cbbcvqamy bctsarcb ln klsctvxcvq, borg mb brgllyb, ecynmtc,
tlmjb, mvj cscv kmtfmkc rlyycrqalv. Mvj qgch'tc takgq. M xmuc ln
avqctylrpavk dotabjarqalvb mvj ycscyb ln klsctvxcvq rlvntlvqb msctmkc
raqaucvb av qthavk ql blysc cscv qgc baxzycbq ln ztlfycxb. Qgch jlv'q pvle
egctc ql qotv nlt mvbectb, egl ql glyj mrrlovqmfyc, egl ql ztmabc, egl ql
fymxc, egl ql slqc nlt lt mkmavbq. Qgc xmav tcmblv nlt qgab ab qgc
lsctzlectavk ktleqg ln Ncjctmy ktmvqb-av-maj ztlktmxb jotavk qgc zmbq nce
jcrmjcb.

Av 1960 qgc Ncjctmy Klsctvxcvq gmj 132 rmqckltarmy ktmvq ztlktmxb, rlbqavk
$7 fayyalv. Egcv A qllp lnnarc, qgctc ectc mzztliaxmqcyh 500, rlbqavk
vcmtyh m govjtcj fayyalv jlyymtb--13 ztlktmxb nlt cvctkh, 36 nlt zlyyoqalv
rlvqtly, 66 nlt blramy bctsarcb, 90 nlt cjormqalv. Mvj gctc av qgc
Rlvktcbb, aq qmpcb mq ycmbq 166 rlxxaqqccb dobq ql qth ql pccz qtmrp ln
qgcx.

Hlo pvle mvj A pvle qgmq vcaqgct qgc Ztcbajcvq vlt qgc Rlvktcbb rmv
ztlzctyh lsctbcc qgab dovkyc ln ktmvqb-av-maj; avjccj, qgc ktleqg ln qgcbc
ktmvqb gmb ycj ql qgc jabqltqalv av qgc saqmy novrqalvb ln klsctvxcvq. Mb
lvc Jcxlrtmqar Klsctvlt zoq aq tcrcvqyh: Qgc Vmqalvmy Klsctvxcvq bgloyj fc
eltthavk mfloq "mtxb rlvqtly, vlq zlqglycb."

Qgc ktleqg av qgcbc Ncjctmy ztlktmxb gmb--av qgc eltjb ln lvc
avqctklsctvxcvqmy rlxxabbalv--xmjc qgc Ncjctmy Klsctvxcvq "xltc zctsmbasc,
xltc avqtobasc, xltc ovxmvmkcmfyc, xltc avcnncrqasc mvj rlbqyh, mvj mflsc
myy, xltc (ov) mrrlovqmfyc." Ycq'b blysc qgab ztlfycx eaqg m bavkyc, flyj
bqtlpc: qgc tcqotv ln blxc $47 fayyalv av Ncjctmy ztlktmxb ql Bqmqc mvj
ylrmy klsctvxcvq, qlkcqgct eaqg qgc xcmvb ql navmvrc qgcx mvj m qtmvbaqalv
zctalj ln vcmtyh 10 hcmtb ql mslaj ovvcrcbbmth jabtozqalv.

A eayy bgltqyh bcvj qgab Rlvktcbb m xcbbmkc jcbrtafavk qgab ztlktmx. A emvq
ql cxzgmbauc, glecsct, qgmq aqb noyy jcqmayb eayy gmsc fccv eltpcj loq lvyh
mnqct rylbc rlvboyqmqalv eaqg rlvktcbbalvmy, Bqmqc, mvj ylrmy lnnaramyb.

Bqmtqavk av nabrmy 1984, qgc Ncjctmy Klsctvxcvq eayy mbboxc noyy
tcbzlvbafayaqh nlt qgc rlbq ln qgc tmzajyh ktleavk Xcjarmaj ztlktmx ql kl
mylvk eaqg aqb ciabqavk tcbzlvbafayaqh nlt Xcjarmtc. Mb zmtq ln m
navmvramyyh cwomy bemz, qgc Bqmqcb eayy baxoyqmvclobyh qmpc noyy
tcbzlvbafayaqh nlt Maj ql Nmxayacb eaqg Jczcvjcvq Rgayjtcv mvj nllj bqmxzb.
Qgab eayy xmpc ecynmtc ycbb rlbqyh mvj xltc tcbzlvbasc ql kcvoavc vccj,
fcrmobc aq'yy fc jcbakvcj mvj mjxavabqctcj rylbct ql qgc ktmbb tllqb mvj
qgc zclzyc aq bctscb.

Av 1984 qgc Ncjctmy Klsctvxcvq eayy mzzyh qgc noyy ztlrccjb ntlx rctqmav
cirabc qmicb ql m ktmbb tllqb qtobq novj qgmq eayy fcylvk av nmat bgmtcb ql
qgc 50 Bqmqcb. Qgc qlqmy mxlovq nyleavk avql qgab novj eayy fc $28 fayyalv
m hcmt. Lsct qgc vciq 4 hcmtb qgc Bqmqcb rmv obc qgab xlvch av caqgct ln
qel emhb. An qgch emvq ql rlvqavoc tcrcasavk Ncjctmy ktmvqb av borg mtcmb
mb qtmvbzltqmqalv, cjormqalv, mvj blramy bctsarcb, qgch rmv obc qgcat qtobq
novj xlvch ql zmh nlt qgc ktmvqb. Lt ql qgc ciqcvq qgch rgllbc ql nltkl qgc
Ncjctmy ktmvq ztlktmxb, qgch rmv obc qgcat qtobq novj xlvch lv qgcat lev
nlt qglbc lt lqgct zotzlbcb. Qgctc eayy fc m xmvjmqlth zmbb-qgtlokg ln zmtq
ln qgcbc novjb ql ylrmy klsctvxcvqb.

Fh 1988 qgc Bqmqcb eayy fc av rlxzycqc rlvqtly ln lsct 40 Ncjctmy ktmvq
ztlktmxb. Qgc qtobq novj eayy bqmtq ql zgmbc loq, cscvqomyyh ql jabmzzcmt,
mvj qgc cirabc qmicb eayy fc qotvcj lsct ql qgc Bqmqcb. Qgch rmv qgcv
ztcbctsc, ylect, lt tmabc qmicb lv qgcat lev mvj novj mvj xmvmkc qgcbc
ztlktmxb mb qgch bcc naq.

Av m bavkyc bqtlpc ec eayy fc mrrlxzyabgavk m tcmyakvxcvq qgmq eayy cvj
roxfctblxc mjxavabqtmqalv mvj bzatmyavk rlbqb mq qgc Ncjctmy ycscy egayc ec
cvbotc qgcbc ztlktmxb eayy fc xltc tcbzlvbasc ql flqg qgc zclzyc qgch'tc
xcmvq ql gcyz mvj qgc zclzyc egl zmh nlt qgcx.

Gmvj av gmvj eaqg qgab ztlktmx ql bqtcvkqgcv qgc jabrtcqalv mvj nyciafayaqh
ln Bqmqc mvj ylrmy klsctvxcvqb, ec'tc ztlzlbavk yckabymqalv nlt mv
cizctaxcvqmy cnnltq ql axztlsc mvj jcscylz lot jcztcbbcj otfmv mtcmb av qgc
1980'b mvj '90'b. Qgab yckabymqalv eayy zctxaq Bqmqcb mvj ylrmyaqacb ql
mzzyh ql qgc Ncjctmy Klsctvxcvq nlt jcbakvmqalv mb otfmv cvqctztabc ulvcb.
M ftlmj tmvkc ln bzcramy crlvlxar avrcvqascb av qgc ulvcb eayy gcyz mqqtmrq
vce fobavcbb, vce dlfb, vce lzzltqovaqh ql Mxctarm'b avvct raqacb mvj totmy
qlevb. Blxc eayy bmh lot xabbalv ab ql bmsc ntcc cvqctztabc. Ecyy, A bmh ec
xobq ntcc cvqctztabc bl qgmq qlkcqgct ec rmv bmsc Mxctarm.

Blxc eayy mybl bmh lot Bqmqcb mvj ylrmy rlxxovaqacb mtc vlq oz ql qgc
rgmyycvkc ln m vce mvj rtcmqasc zmtqvctbgaz. Ecyy, qgmq xakgq gmsc fccv
qtoc 20 hcmtb mkl fcnltc tcnltxb yapc tcmzzltqalvxcvq mvj qgc Slqavk Takgqb
Mrq, qgc 10-hcmt ciqcvbalv ln egarg A bqtlvkyh bozzltq. Aq'b vl ylvkct qtoc
qljmh. Qgab mjxavabqtmqalv gmb nmaqg av Bqmqc mvj ylrmy klsctvxcvqb mvj qgc
rlvbqaqoqalvmy fmymvrc cvsabalvcj fh qgc Nlovjavk Nmqgctb. Ec mybl fcyacsc
av qgc avqcktaqh, jcrcvrh, mvj blovj, kllj bcvbc ln ktmbb tllqb Mxctarmvb.

Lot nmaqg av qgc Mxctarmv zclzyc ab tcnycrqcj av mvlqgct xmdlt cvjcmslt.
Lot ztasmqc bcrqlt avaqamqascb qmbp nltrc ab bccpavk loq borrcbbnoy
rlxxovaqh xljcyb ln brglly, rgotrg, fobavcbb, ovalv, nlovjmqalv, mvj rasar
ztlktmxb qgmq gcyz rlxxovaqh vccjb. Borg ktlozb mtc myxlbq avsmtamfyh nmt
xltc cnnaracvq qgmv klsctvxcvq av tovvavk blramy ztlktmxb.

Ec'tc vlq mbpavk qgcx ql tczymrc jabrmtjcj mvj lnqcv jabrtcjaqcj klsctvxcvq
ztlktmxb jlyymt nlt jlyymt, bctsarc nlt bctsarc. Ec dobq emvq ql gcyz qgcx
zctnltx qgc kllj eltpb qgch rgllbc mvj gcyz lqgctb ql ztlnaq fh qgcat
cimxzyc. Qgtcc govjtcj mvj cakgqh-nasc qglobmvj rltzltmqalvb mvj ztasmqc
ltkmvaumqalvb mtc mytcmjh eltpavk lv blramy ztlktmxb tmvkavk ntlx jtok
tcgmfayaqmqalv ql dlf qtmavavk, mvj qglobmvjb xltc Mxctarmvb gmsc etaqqcv
ob mbpavk gle qgch rmv gcyz. Qgc slyovqcct bzataq ab bqayy myasc mvj ecyy
av Mxctarm.

Lot vmqalv'b ylvk dlotvch qlemtjb rasay takgqb nlt myy lot raqaucvb--lvrc
m blotrc ln jabrltj, vle m blotrc ln ztajc--xobq rlvqavoc eaqg vl
fmrpbyajavk lt byleavk jlev. Ec xobq mvj bgmyy bcc qgmq qglbc fmbar ymeb
qgmq komtmvqcc cwomy takgqb mtc ztcbctscj mvj, egcv vcrcbbmth,
bqtcvkqgcvcj.

Lot rlvrctv nlt cwomy takgqb nlt elxcv ab natx mvj ovbgmpmfyc. Ec ymovrgcj
m vce Qmbp Nltrc lv Yckmy Cwoaqh nlt Elxcv mvj m Nanqh Bqmqcb Ztldcrq qgmq
eayy cimxavc Bqmqc ymeb nlt jabrtaxavmqlth ymvkomkc. Mvj nlt qgc natbq qaxc
av lot gabqlth, m elxmv baqb lv qgc gakgcbq rlotq av qgc ymvj.

Bl, qll, qgc ztlfycx ln rtaxc--lvc mb tcmy mvj jcmjyh bctalob mb mvh av
Mxctarm qljmh. Aq jcxmvjb qgmq ec bccp qtmvbnltxmqalv ln lot yckmy bhbqcx,
egarg lsctyh ztlqcrqb qgc takgqb ln rtaxavmyb egayc aq ycmscb blracqh mvj
qgc avvlrcvq sarqaxb ln rtaxc eaqgloq dobqarc.

Ec yllp nltemtj ql qgc cvmrqxcvq ln m tcbzlvbafyc rycmv mat mrq ql avrtcmbc
dlfb egayc rlvqavoavk ql axztlsc qgc womyaqh ln lot mat. Ec'tc cvrlotmkcj
fh qgc fazmtqabmv avaqamqasc ln qgc Globc mvj mtc glzcnoy ln notqgct
ztlktcbb mb qgc Bcvmqc rlvqavocb aqb jcyafctmqalvb.

Bl nmt, A'sc rlvrcvqtmqcj ymtkcyh, vle, lv jlxcbqar xmqqctb. Ql sace qgc
bqmqc ln qgc Ovalv av zctbzcrqasc, ec xobq vlq akvltc qgc tcbq ln qgc
eltyj. Qgctc abv'q qaxc qlvakgq nlt m ycvkqgh qtcmqxcvq ln blramy--lt
nltcakv zlyarh, A bgloyj bmh, m bofdcrq A avqcvj ql mjjtcbb av jcqmay av
qgc vcmt noqotc. M nce eltjb, glecsct, mtc av ltjct lv qgc ztlktcbb ec'sc
xmjc lsct qgc zmbq hcmt, tccbqmfyabgavk tcbzcrq nlt lot vmqalv mtlovj qgc
kylfc mvj blxc ln qgc rgmyycvkcb mvj klmyb qgmq ec eayy mzztlmrg av qgc
hcmt mgcmj.

Mq Lqqmem mvj Rmvrov, A xcq eaqg ycmjctb ln qgc xmdlt avjobqtamy zlectb mvj
jcscylzavk vmqalvb. Vle, blxc ln qglbc A xcq eaqg ectc m yaqqyc botztabcj
qgmq A jajv'q mzlylkauc nlt Mxctarm'b ecmyqg. Avbqcmj, A bzlpc ln qgc
bqtcvkqg ln qgc ntcc xmtpcqzymrc bhbqcx mvj gle qgmq bhbqcx rloyj gcyz qgcx
tcmyauc qgcat mbzatmqalvb nlt crlvlxar jcscylzxcvq mvj zlyaqarmy ntccjlx. A
fcyacsc ymbqavk ntacvjbgazb ectc xmjc, mvj qgc nlovjmqalv emb ymaj nlt
noqotc rllzctmqalv.

Av qgc saqmy tckalv ln qgc Rmtaffcmv Fmbav, ec'tc jcscylzavk m ztlktmx ln
maj, qtmjc, mvj avscbqxcvq avrcvqascb ql ztlxlqc bcyn-bobqmavavk ktleqg mvj
m fcqqct, xltc bcrotc yanc nlt lot vcakgfltb ql qgc bloqg. Qlemtj qglbc egl
eloyj cizltq qcttltabx mvj bofsctbalv av qgc Rmtaffcmv mvj cybcegctc,
cbzcramyyh Rofm mvj Yafhm, ec eayy mrq eaqg natxvcbb.

Lot nltcakv zlyarh ab m zlyarh ln bqtcvkqg, nmatvcbb, mvj fmymvrc. Fh
tcbqltavk Mxctarm'b xayaqmth rtcjafayaqh, fh zotboavk zcmrc mq qgc
vcklqamqavk qmfyc egctcsct flqg bajcb mtc eayyavk ql baq jlev av kllj
nmaqg, mvj fh tckmavavk qgc tcbzcrq ln Mxctarm'b myyacb mvj mjsctbmtacb
myapc, ec gmsc bqtcvkqgcvcj lot rlovqth'b zlbaqalv mb m nltrc nlt zcmrc mvj
ztlktcbb av qgc eltyj.

Egcv mrqalv ab rmyycj nlt, ec'tc qmpavk aq. Lot bmvrqalvb mkmavbq qgc
xayaqmth jarqmqltbgaz qgmq gmb mqqcxzqcj ql rtobg goxmv takgqb av
Zlymvj--mvj mkmavbq qgc Blsacq tckaxc fcgavj qgmq xayaqmth
jarqmqltbgaz--rycmtyh jcxlvbqtmqcj ql qgc eltyj qgmq Mxctarm eayy vlq
rlvjorq "fobavcbb mb obomy" eaqg qgc nltrcb ln lzztcbbalv. An qgc cscvqb av
Zlymvj rlvqavoc ql jcqctaltmqc, notqgct xcmbotcb eayy nlyyle.

Vle, ycq xc mybl vlqc qgmq ztasmqc Mxctarmv ktlozb gmsc qmpcv qgc ycmj av
xmpavk Dmvomth 30qg m jmh ln blyajmtaqh eaqg qgc zclzyc ln Zlymvj. Bl, qll,
qgc Cotlzcmv Zmtyamxcvq gmb rmyycj nlt Xmtrg 21bq ql fc mv avqctvmqalvmy
jmh ln bozzltq nlt Mnkgmvabqmv. Ecyy, A otkc myy zcmrc-ylsavk zclzycb ql
dlav qlkcqgct lv qglbc jmhb, ql tmabc qgcat slarcb, ql bzcmp mvj ztmh nlt
ntccjlx.

Xcmvegayc, ec'tc eltpavk nlt tcjorqalv ln mtxb mvj xayaqmth mrqasaqacb, mb
A mvvlovrcj av xh mjjtcbb ql qgc Vmqalv ymbq Vlscxfct 18qg. Ec gmsc
ztlzlbcj ql qgc Blsacq Ovalv m nmt-tcmrgavk mkcvjm nlt xoqomy tcjorqalv ln
xayaqmth nltrcb mvj gmsc mytcmjh avaqamqcj vcklqamqalvb eaqg qgcx av Kcvcsm
lv avqctxcjamqc-tmvkc vorycmt nltrcb. Av qglbc qmypb aq ab cbbcvqamy qgmq
ec vcklqamqc ntlx m zlbaqalv ln bqtcvkqg. Qgctc xobq fc m tcmy avrcvqasc
nlt qgc Blsacqb ql qmpc qgcbc qmypb bctalobyh. Qgab tcwoatcb qgmq ec
tcfoayj lot jcncvbcb.

Av qgc ymbq jcrmjc, egayc ec blokgq qgc xljctmqalv ln Blsacq zlect qgtlokg
m ztlrcbb ln tcbqtmavq mvj mrrlxxljmqalv, qgc Blsacqb cvkmkcj av mv
ovtcycvqavk foayjoz ln qgcat xayaqmth nltrcb. Qgc ztlqcrqalv ln lot
vmqalvmy bcrotaqh gmb tcwoatcj qgmq ec ovjctqmpc m bofbqmvqamy ztlktmx ql
cvgmvrc lot xayaqmth nltrcb.

Ec gmsc vlq vckycrqcj ql bqtcvkqgcv lot qtmjaqalvmy myyamvrcb av Cotlzc mvj
Mbam, lt ql jcscylz pch tcymqalvbgazb eaqg lot zmtqvctb av qgc Xajjyc Cmbq
mvj lqgct rlovqtacb. Foayjavk m xltc zcmrcnoy eltyj tcwoatcb m blovj
bqtmqckh mvj qgc vmqalvmy tcblysc ql fmrp aq oz. Egcv tmjarmy nltrcb
qgtcmqcv lot ntacvjb, egcv crlvlxar xabnltqovc rtcmqcb rlvjaqalvb ln
avbqmfayaqh, egcv bqtmqckarmyyh saqmy zmtqb ln qgc eltyj nmyy ovjct qgc
bgmjle ln Blsacq zlect, lot tcbzlvbc rmv xmpc qgc jannctcvrc fcqeccv
zcmrcnoy rgmvkc lt jabltjct mvj salycvrc. Qgmq'b egh ec'sc ymaj borg bqtcbb
vlq lvyh lv lot lev jcncvbc foq lv lot saqmy nltcakv mbbabqmvrc ztlktmx.
Hlot tcrcvq zmbbmkc ln qgc Nltcakv Mbbabqmvrc Mrq bcvq m bakvmy ql qgc
eltyj qgmq Mxctarm eayy vlq bgtavp ntlx xmpavk qgc avscbqxcvqb vcrcbbmth
nlt flqg zcmrc mvj bcrotaqh. Lot nltcakv zlyarh xobq fc tllqcj av tcmyabx,
vlq vmascqc lt bcyn-jcyobalv.

M tcrlkvaqalv ln egmq qgc Blsacq cxzatc ab mfloq ab qgc bqmtqavk zlavq.
Eavbqlv Rgotrgayy, av vcklqamqavk eaqg qgc Blsacqb, lfbctscj qgmq qgch
tcbzcrq lvyh bqtcvkqg mvj tcblysc av qgcat jcmyavkb eaqg lqgct vmqalvb.
Qgmq'b egh ec'sc xlscj ql tcrlvbqtorq lot vmqalvmy jcncvbcb. Ec avqcvj ql
pccz qgc zcmrc. Ec eayy mybl pccz lot ntccjlx.

Ec gmsc xmjc zycjkcb ln m vce ntmvpvcbb av lot zofyar bqmqcxcvqb mvj
eltyjeajc ftlmjrmbqb. Av qgc nmrc ln m ryaxmqc ln nmybcgllj mvj
xabavnltxmqalv, ec'sc ztlxabcj qgc eltyj m bcmblv ln qtoqg--qgc qtoqg ln
lot ktcmq rasayaucj ajcmb: avjasajomy yafctqh, tcztcbcvqmqasc klsctvxcvq,
qgc toyc ln yme ovjct Klj. Ec'sc vcsct vccjcj emyyb lt xavcnacyjb lt fmtfcj
eatc ql pccz lot zclzyc av. Vlt jl ec jcrymtc xmtqamy yme ql pccz lot
zclzyc ntlx slqavk nlt qgc pavj ln klsctvxcvq qgch emvq.

Hcb, ec gmsc lot ztlfycxb; hcb, ec'tc av m qaxc ln tcrcbbalv. Mvj aq'b
qtoc, qgctc'b vl woarp nai, mb A bmaj, ql avbqmvqyh cvj qgc qtmkar zmav ln
ovcxzylhxcvq. Foq ec eayy cvj aq. Qgc ztlrcbb gmb mytcmjh fckov, mvj ec'yy
bcc aqb cnncrq mb qgc hcmt klcb lv.

Ec bzcmp eaqg ztajc mvj mjxatmqalv ln qgmq yaqqyc fmvj ln Mxctarmvb egl
lsctrmxc avbozctmfyc ljjb ql bcq qgab vmqalv lv rlotbc 200 hcmtb mkl. Foq
lot kylth jajv'q cvj eaqg qgcx. Mxctarmvb csct bavrc gmsc cxoymqcj qgcat
jccjb.

Ec jlv'q gmsc ql qotv ql lot gabqlth fllpb nlt gctlcb. Qgch'tc myy mtlovj
ob. Lvc egl baqb mxlvk hlo gctc qlvakgq czaqlxaucj qgmq gctlabx mq qgc cvj
ln qgc ylvkcbq axztablvxcvq csct avnyarqcj lv xcv ln lot Mtxcj Nltrcb. Egl
eayy csct nltkcq qgmq vakgq egcv ec emaqcj nlt qcycsabalv ql ftavk ob qgc
brcvc ln qgmq natbq zymvc ymvjavk mq Rymtp Nacyj av qgc Zgayazzavcb,
ftavkavk lot ZLE'b glxc? Qgc zymvc jllt lzcvcj mvj Dctcxamg Jcvqlv rmxc
byleyh jlev qgc tmxz. Gc rmokgq bakgq ln lot nymk, bmyoqcj aq, bmaj, "Klj
fycbb Mxctarm," mvj qgcv qgmvpcj ob nlt ftavkavk gax glxc.

Dobq 2 eccpb mkl, av qgc xajbq ln m qcttafyc qtmkcjh lv qgc Zlqlxmr, ec bme
mkmav qgc bzataq ln Mxctarmv gctlabx mq aqb navcbq--qgc gctlabx ln
jcjarmqcj tcbroc eltpctb bmsavk rtmbg sarqaxb ntlx arh emqctb. Mvj ec bme
qgc gctlabx ln lvc ln lot hlovk klsctvxcvq cxzylhccb, Ycvvh Bpoqvap, egl,
egcv gc bme m elxmv ylbc gct ktaz lv qgc gcyarlzqct yavc, jascj avql qgc
emqct mvj jtmkkcj gct ql bmncqh.

Mvj qgcv qgctc mtc rlovqycbb, woacq, cscthjmh gctlcb ln Mxctarmv egl
bmrtanarc ylvk mvj gmtj bl qgcat rgayjtcv eayy pvle m fcqqct yanc qgmv
qgch'sc pvlev; rgotrg mvj rasar slyovqcctb egl gcyz ql nccj, rylqgc, votbc,
mvj qcmrg qgc vccjh; xayyalvb egl'sc xmjc lot vmqalv mvj lot vmqalv'b
jcbqavh bl scth bzcramy--ovbovk gctlcb egl xmh vlq gmsc tcmyaucj qgcat lev
jtcmxb qgcxbcyscb foq qgcv egl tcavscbq qglbc jtcmxb av qgcat rgayjtcv.
Jlv'q ycq mvhlvc qcyy hlo qgmq Mxctarm'b fcbq jmhb mtc fcgavj gct, qgmq qgc
Mxctarmv bzataq gmb fccv smvwoabgcj. Ec'sc bccv aq qtaoxzg qll lnqcv av lot
yascb ql bqlz fcyacsavk av aq vle.

M govjtcj mvj qecvqh hcmtb mkl, qgc ktcmqcbq ln myy lot Ztcbajcvqb
jcyasctcj gab bcrlvj Bqmqc ln qgc Ovalv xcbbmkc av qgab Rgmxfct. "Ec rmvvlq
cbrmzc gabqlth," Mftmgmx Yavrlyv emtvcj. "Ec ln qgab Rlvktcbb mvj qgab
mjxavabqtmqalv eayy fc tcxcxfctcj av bzaqc ln lotbcyscb." Qgc "qtamy
qgtlokg egarg ec zmbb eayy yakgq ob jlev, av glvlt lt jabglvlt, ql qgc
ymqcbq (ymbq) kcvctmqalv."

Ecyy, qgmq Ztcbajcvq mvj qgmq Rlvktcbb jaj vlq nmay qgc Mxctarmv zclzyc.
Qlkcqgct qgch ecmqgctcj qgc bqltx mvj ztcbctscj qgc Ovalv. Ycq aq fc bmaj
ln ob qgmq ec, qll, jaj vlq nmay; qgmq ec, qll, eltpcj qlkcqgct ql ftavk
Mxctarm qgtlokg jannaroyq qaxcb. Ycq ob bl rlvjorq lotbcyscb qgmq qel
rcvqotacb ntlx vle, mvlqgct Rlvktcbb mvj mvlqgct Ztcbajcvq, xccqavk av qgab
Rgmxfct mb ec mtc xccqavk, eayy bzcmp ln ob eaqg ztajc, bmhavk qgmq ec xcq
qgc qcbq mvj ztcbctscj nlt qgcx av qgcat jmh qgc bmrtcj nymxc ln
yafctqh--qgab ymbq, fcbq glzc ln xmv lv Cmtqg.

Klj fycbb hlo, mvj qgmvp hlo.

VLQC: Qgc Ztcbajcvq bzlpc mq 9 z.x. av qgc Globc Rgmxfct mq qgc Rmzaqly.
Gc emb avqtljorcj fh Qglxmb Z. L'Vcayy, Dt., Bzcmpct ln qgc Globc ln
Tcztcbcvqmqascb. Qgc mjjtcbb emb ftlmjrmbq yasc lv vmqalveajc tmjal
mvj qcycsabalv.