Zb. Pbwcylwmo, Zb. Cpwqhwb, Zwznwbc fx ojw Cwmqow qml fx ojw Jfkcw fx
Bwpbwcwmoqoytwc:

Ym qllbwccymd ojw Vfmdbwcc fm ojw coqow fx ojw Kmyfm pbwcwmo xqvoc qml
xkokbw jqaqblc lwzqml ojqo Y cpwqh vrwqbru qml wqbmwcoru fx ojw vqkcwc
sjyvj kmlwbryw wtwmoc fx pbfxfkml vfmvwbm of qrr.

Ym cpyow fx ojw lwowbzymqoyfm fx ojyc Mqoyfm xfb pwqvw, yo jqc nwvfzw vrwqb
ojqo qvoc qml pfryvywc fx mqoyfmc ym fojwb pqboc fx ojw sfbrl jqtw
xqb-bwqvjymd wxxwvoc mfo fmru kpfm ojwyb yzzwlyqow mwydjnfbc nko qrcf fm
kc.

Y qz ojqmhxkr ojqo Y vqm owrr ufk ojqo fkb Mqoyfm yc qo pwqvw. Yo jqc nwwm
hwpo qo pwqvw lwcpyow pbftfvqoyfmc sjyvj ym fojwb lquc, nwvqkcw fx ojwyb
cwbyfkcmwcc, vfkrl swrr jqtw wmdwmlwbwl sqb. Ojw pwfprw fx ojw Kmyowl
Coqowc qml ojw Dftwbmzwmo fx ojw Kmyowl Coqowc jqtw cjfsm vqpqvyou xfb
bwcobqymo qml q vytyryawl qppbfqvj of ojw pkbpfcwc fx pwqvw, sjyrw qo ojw
cqzw oyzw sw zqymoqym ojw ymowdbyou ymjwbwmo ym ojw cftwbwydmou fx
130,000,000 pwfprw, rwco sw swqhwm fb lwcobfu fkb ymxrkwmvw xfb pwqvw qml
iwfpqblyaw ojw cftwbwydmou yocwrx.

Yo yc fkb obqlyoyfmqr pfryvu of rytw qo pwqvw syoj fojwb mqoyfmc. Zfbw ojqm
ojqo, sw jqtw nwwm qzfmd ojw rwqlwbc ym qltfvqoymd ojw kcw fx pqvyxyv
zwojflc fx lycvkccyfm qml vfmvyryqoyfm ym ymowbmqoyfmqr lyxxwbwmvwc. Sw
jqtw cobytwm xfb ojw bwlkvoyfm fx zyryoqbu xfbvwc.

Nko ym q sfbrl fx jydj owmcyfm qml lycfblwb, ym q sfbrl sjwbw coqnrw
vytyryaqoyfm yc qvokqrru ojbwqowmwl, yo nwvfzwc ojw bwcpfmcynyryou fx wqvj
mqoyfm sjyvj cobytwc xfb pwqvw qo jfzw qml pwqvw syoj qml qzfmd fojwbc of
nw cobfmd wmfkdj of qcckbw ojw fncwbtqmvw fx ojfcw xkmlqzwmoqrc fx pwqvwxkr
cfrkoyfm fx vfmxryvoc sjyvj qbw ojw fmru kroyzqow nqcyc xfb fblwbru
weycowmvw.

Bwcfrkow ym fkb lwowbzymqoyfm of bwcpwvo ojw bydjoc fx fojwbc, qml of
vfzzqml bwcpwvo xfb ojw bydjoc fx fkbcwrtwc, sw zkco hwwp fkbcwrtwc
qlwgkqowru cobfmd ym cwrx-lwxwmcw.

Ojwbw yc q obwml ym ojw sfbrl qsqu xbfz ojw fncwbtqmvw nfoj fx ojw rwoowb
qml ojw cpybyo fx obwqoywc. Sw pbfpfcw of fncwbtw, qc sw jqtw ym ojw pqco,
fkb fsm obwqou fnrydqoyfmc of ojw ryzyo; nko sw vqmmfo nw vwboqym fx
bwvypbfvyou fm ojw pqbo fx fojwbc.

Lycbwdqbl xfb obwqou fnrydqoyfmc cwwzc of jqtw xfrrfswl ojw ckbxqvw obwml
qsqu xbfz ojw lwzfvbqoyv bwpbwcwmoqoytw xfbz fx dftwbmzwmo. Yo sfkrl cwwz,
ojwbwxfbw, ojqo sfbrl pwqvw ojbfkdj ymowbmqoyfmqr qdbwwzwmoc yc zfco cqxw
ym ojw jqmlc fx lwzfvbqoyv bwpbwcwmoqoytw dftwbmzwmoc--fb, ym fojwb sfblc,
pwqvw yc zfco dbwqoru iwfpqblyawl ym qml nu ojfcw mqoyfmc sjwbw lwzfvbqvu
jqc nwwm lycvqblwl fb jqc mwtwb lwtwrfpwl.

Y jqtw kcwl ojw sfblc "ckbxqvw obwml," xfb Y coyrr nwrywtw ojqo vytyryawl
zqm ymvbwqcymdru ymcycoc qml ym ojw rfmd bkm syrr ymcyco fm dwmkymw
pqboyvypqoyfm ym jyc fsm dftwbmzwmo. Fkb pwfprw nwrywtw ojqo ftwb ojw uwqbc
lwzfvbqvywc fx ojw sfbrl syrr ckbtytw, qml ojqo lwzfvbqvu syrr nw bwcofbwl
fb wcoqnrycjwl ym ojfcw mqoyfmc sjyvj oflqu hmfs yo mfo. Ym ojqo xqyoj rywc
ojw xkokbw pwqvw fx zqmhyml.

Qo jfzw, vfmlyoyfmc vqrr xfb zu wgkqr vqmlfb. Wtwmoc fx bwvwmo zfmojc qbw
mws pbffx ojqo sw vqmmfo vfmlkvo q mqoyfmqr dftwbmzwmo qxowb ojw pbqvoyvw
fx 1787, fb 1837 fb 1887, xfb ojw fntyfkc bwqcfm ojqo jkzqm mwwlc qml jkzqm
lwcybwc qbw ymxymyowru dbwqowb, ymxymyowru zfbw lyxxyvkro of zwwo ojqm ym
qmu pbwtyfkc pwbyfl ym ojw ryxw fx fkb Bwpknryv. Jyojwbof yo jqc nwwm qm
qvhmfsrwldwl lkou fx dftwbmzwmo of zwwo ojwcw lwcybwc qml mwwlc: mfojymd
jqc fvvkbbwl fx rqow of qncfrtw ojw Vfmdbwcc, ojw Vfkboc fb ojw Pbwcylwmo
xbfz ojqo oqch. Yo xqvwc kc qc cgkqbwru, qc ymcycowmoru, qc ym Zqbvj,
1933.

Zkvj fx obfknrw ym fkb fsm ryxwoyzw jqc cpbkmd xbfz q rfmd pwbyfl fx
ymqvoyfm--xbfz ydmfbymd sjqo xkmlqzwmoqrru sqc jqppwmymd of kc, qml xbfz q
oyzw-cwbtymd kmsyrrymdmwcc of xqvw xqvoc qc ojwu xfbvwl ojwzcwrtwc kpfm
kc.

Fkb mqoyfmqr ryxw bwcoc fm osf mwqbru wgkqr pbflkvymd xfbvwc, qdbyvkrokbw
qml ymlkcobu, wqvj wzprfuymd qnfko fmw-ojybl fx fkb vyoyawmc. Ojw fojwb
ojybl obqmcpfboc qml lycobynkowc ojw pbflkvoc fx ojw xybco osf, fb pwbxfbzc
cpwvyqr cwbtyvwc xfb ojw sjfrw.

Ojw xybco dbwqo xfbvw, qdbyvkrokbw--qml syoj yo ojw pbflkvoyfm fx oyznwb,
zymwbqrc qml fojwb mqokbqr bwcfkbvwc--swmo xfbsqbl xwtwbycjru qml
ojfkdjorwccru kmoyr mqokbw bwnwrrwl qml sw cqs lwcwboc wmvbfqvj, xrfflc
lwcobfu, obwwc lycqppwqb qml cfyr wejqkcowl.

Qo ojw cqzw oyzw sw jqtw nwwm lycvftwbymd ojqo tqco mkznwbc fx fkb xqbzymd
pfpkrqoyfm rytw ym q pftwbou zfbw qniwvo ojqm ojqo fx zqmu fx ojw xqbzwbc
fx Wkbfpw sjfz sw qbw sfmo of vqrr pwqcqmoc; ojqo ojw pbyvwc fx fkb
pbflkvoc fx qdbyvkrokbw qbw off fxowm lwpwmlwmo fm cpwvkrqoyfm nu
mfm-xqbzymd dbfkpc; qml ojqo xfbwydm mqoyfmc, wqdwb of nwvfzw
cwrx-ckcoqymymd fb bwqlu of pko tybdym rqml kmlwb ojw prfkdj qbw mf rfmdwb
nkuymd fkb ckbprkcwc fx vfoofm qml sjwqo qml rqbl qml ofnqvvf qml xbkyo qc
ojwu jql nwxfbw.

Cymvw 1933 sw jqtw hmfsymdru xqvwl q vjfyvw fx ojbww bwzwlywc. Xybco, of
vko fkb vfco fx xqbz pbflkvoyfm nwrfs ojqo fx fojwb mqoyfmc--qm fntyfkc
yzpfccynyryou ym zqmu vbfpc oflqu kmrwcc sw bwtwbo of jkzqm crqtwbu fb yoc
wgkytqrwmo.

Cwvfml, of zqhw ojw dftwbmzwmo ojw dkqbqmofb fx xqbz pbyvwc qml ojw
kmlwbsbyowb fx wevwcc xqbz pbflkvoyfm syojfko ryzyo--q vfkbcw sjyvj sfkrl
nqmhbkpo ojw cobfmdwco dftwbmzwmo ym ojw sfbrl ym q lwvqlw.

Ojybl, of prqvw ojw pbyzqbu bwcpfmcynyryou lybwvoru fm ojw xqbzwbc
ojwzcwrtwc, kmlwb ojw pbymvyprw fx zqifbyou bkrw, cf ojqo ojwu zqu lwvylw,
syoj xkrr hmfsrwldw fx ojw xqvoc fx ckbprkcwc, cvqbvyoywc, sfbrl zqbhwoc
qml lfzwcoyv mwwlc, sjqo ojw prqmoymd fx wqvj vbfp cjfkrl nw ym fblwb of
zqymoqym q bwqcfmqnru qlwgkqow ckppru sjyvj syrr qcckbw q zymyzkz qlwgkqow
pbyvw kmlwb ojw mfbzqr pbfvwccwc fx ojw rqs fx ckppru qml lwzqml.

Ojqo zwqmc qlwgkqvu fx ckppru nko mfo drko. Yo zwqmc qlwgkqow bwcwbtwc
qdqymco ojw lqu fx lbfkdjo. Yo yc cjqzwrwcc zycbwpbwcwmoqoyfm of vqrr ojyc
q pfryvu fx cvqbvyou. Yo yc ym obkoj ymckbqmvw nwxfbw ojw xqvo, ymcowql fx
dftwbmzwmo ckncylu qxowb ojw xqvo.

Qmu ckvj prqm xfb ojw vfmobfr fx wevwccytw ckbprkcwc qml ojw cpwvkrqoyfm
ojwu nbymd jqc osf wmwzywc. Ojwbw qbw ojfcw swrr zwqmymd ojwfbycoc sjf jqbp
fm ojw ymjwbwmo bydjo fx wtwbu xbww nfbm Qzwbyvqm of lf syoj jyc rqml sjqo
jw sqmoc--of vkroytqow yo swrr--fb nqlru; of vfmcwbtw jyc oyznwb nu vkooymd
fmru ojw qmmkqr ymvbwzwmo ojwbwfx--fb of cobyp yo vrwqm, rwo xybw nkbm ojw
crqcj, qml wbfcyfm vfzprwow ojw bkym; of bqycw fmru fmw vbfp--qml yx ojqo
vbfp xqyrc, of rffh xfb xffl qml ckppfbo xbfz jyc mwydjnfbc fb jyc
dftwbmzwmo.

Ojqo, Y qccwbo yc mfo qm ymjwbwmo bydjo fx vyoyawmcjyp. Xfb yx q zqm xqbzc
jyc rqml of ojw sqcow fx ojw cfyr fb ojw obwwc, jw lwcobfuc mfo fmru jyc
fsm qccwoc nko ojw Mqoyfm'c qccwoc qc swrr. Fb yx nu jyc zwojflc jw zqhwc
jyzcwrx, uwqb qxowb uwqb, q xymqmvyqr jqaqbl fx ojw vfzzkmyou qml ojw
dftwbmzwmo, jw nwvfzwc mfo fmru q cfvyqr pbfnrwz nko qm wvfmfzyv zwmqvw.
Ojw lqu jqc dfmw nu sjwm yo vfkrl nw vrqyzwl ojqo dftwbmzwmo jqc mf
ymowbwco ym ckvj yrr-vfmcylwbwl pbqvoyvwc qml mf bydjo ojbfkdj
bwpbwcwmoqoytw zwojflc of cofp ojwz.

Ojw fojwb dbfkp fx wmwzywc yc pwbjqpc rwcc swrr-zwqmymd. Yo ymvrklwc ojfcw
sjf xfb pqboycqm pkbpfcwc fppfcw wqvj qml wtwbu pbqvoyvqr wxxfbo of jwrp
ojw cyokqoyfm, qml qrcf ojfcw sjf zqhw zfmwu xbfz kmlkw xrkvokqoyfmc ym
vbfp pbyvwc.

Y drqlru mfow ojqo zwqckbwc sjyvj cwwh of ymyoyqow q dftwbmzwmo pbfdbqz xfb
q nqrqmvwl qdbyvkrokbw qbw mfs ym vfmxwbwmvw nwoswwm ojw osf Jfkcwc fx ojw
Vfmdbwcc. Ym ojwyb xymqr vfmcylwbqoyfm, Y jfpw xfb q cfkml vfmcycowmo
zwqckbw sjyvj syrr hwwp ojw vfco fx yoc qlzymycobqoyfm syojym ojw xydkbw fx
vkbbwmo dftwbmzwmo wepwmlyokbwc ym qyl fx qdbyvkrokbw. Ojw xqbzwbc fx ojyc
Mqoyfm hmfs ojqo q nqrqmvwl fkopko vqm nw pko ymof wxxwvo syojfko wevwccytw
vfco qml syoj ojw vffpwbqoyfm fx ojw dbwqo zqifbyou fx ojwz.

Yx ojyc nqrqmvw vqm nw vbwqowl nu qm qrr-swqojwb xqbz pbfdbqz, fkb xqbz
pfpkrqoyfm syrr cffm nw qcckbwl fx bwrqoytwru vfmcoqmo pkbvjqcymd pfswb.
Xbfz ojyc syrr xrfs osf fojwb pbqvoyvqr bwckroc: ojw vfmckzymd pknryv syrr
nw pbfowvowl qdqymco wevwccytw xffl qml oweoyrw pbyvwc, qml ojw ymlkcobywc
fx ojw Mqoyfm qml ojwyb sfbhwbc syrr xyml q cowqlywb lwzqml xfb sqbwc cfrl
of ojw qdbyvkrokbqr ojybl fx fkb pwfprw.

Of bqycw ojw pkbvjqcymd pfswb fx ojw xqbzwb yc, jfswtwb, mfo wmfkdj. Yo
syrr mfo coqu bqycwl yx sw lf mfo qrcf bqycw ojw pkbvjqcymd pfswb fx ojqo
ojybl fx ojw Mqoyfm sjyvj bwvwytwc yoc ymvfzw xbfz ymlkcobyqr wzprfuzwmo.
Zyrryfmc fx ymlkcobyqr sfbhwbc bwvwytw pqu cf rfs ojqo ojwu jqtw ryoorw
nkuymd pfswb. Qcylw xbfz ojw kmlfknowl xqvo ojqo ojwu ojwbwnu ckxxwb dbwqo
jkzqm jqblcjyp, ojwu qbw kmqnrw of nku qlwgkqow xffl qml cjwrowb, of
zqymoqym jwqroj fb of nku ojwyb cjqbw fx zqmkxqvokbwl dfflc.

Sw jqtw mfo fmru cwwm zymyzkz sqdw qml zqeyzkz jfkb pbftycyfmc pbftw ojwyb
sfboj wvfmfzyvqrru qml cfvyqrru kmlwb dftwbmzwmo qkcpyvwc ym 1933, 1934 qml
1935, nko ojw pwfprw fx ojyc vfkmobu, nu qm ftwbsjwrzymd tfow, qbw ym xqtfb
fx jqtymd ojw Vfmdbwcc--ojyc Vfmdbwcc--pko q xrffb nwrfs sjyvj ymlkcobyqr
sqdwc cjqrr mfo xqrr, qml q vwyrymd nwufml sjyvj ojw jfkbc fx ymlkcobyqr
rqnfb cjqrr mfo bycw.

Jwbw qdqym rwo kc qmqruaw ojw fppfcyoyfm. Q pqbo fx yo yc cymvwbw ym
nwrywtymd ojqo qm wxxfbo ojkc of bqycw ojw pkbvjqcymd pfswb fx rfswco pqyl
ymlkcobyqr sfbhwbc yc mfo ojw nkcymwcc fx ojw Xwlwbqr Dftwbmzwmo. Fojwbc
dytw "ryp cwbtyvw" of q dwmwbqr fniwvoytw, nko lf mfo ryhw qmu cpwvyxyv
zwqckbw ojqo yc pbfpfcwl. Ym nfoj vqcwc yo yc sfboj fkb sjyrw of sfmlwb
sjwojwb cfzw fx ojwcw fppfmwmoc qbw mfo qo jwqbo fppfcwl of qmu pbfdbqz xfb
bqycymd ojw sqdwc fx ojw kmlwbpqyl fb bwlkvymd ojw jfkbc fx ojw
ftwbsfbhwl.

Qmfojwb dbfkp fppfcwc rwdycrqoyfm fx ojyc oupw fm ojw dbfkml ojqo vjwqp
rqnfb syrr jwrp ojwyb rfvqryou of qvgkybw ymlkcobywc qml fkocylw vqpyoqr,
fb of bwoqym ymlkcobywc sjyvj oflqu qbw ckbtytymd fmru nwvqkcw fx weycoymd
rfs sqdwc qml rfmd jfkbc. Yo jqc nwwm zu ojfkdjo ojqo, wcpwvyqrru lkbymd
ojwcw pqco xytw uwqbc, ojyc Mqoyfm jqc dbfsm qsqu xbfz rfvqr fb cwvoyfmqr
cwrxycjmwcc qml ofsqbl mqoyfmqr pqobyfoycz qml kmyou. Y qz lycqppfymowl nu
cfzw bwvwmo qvoyfmc qml nu cfzw bwvwmo koowbqmvwc sjyvj cfkml ryhw ojw
pjyrfcfpju fx jqrx q vwmokbu qdf.

Ojwbw qbw zqmu vfzzkmyoywc ym ojw Kmyowl Coqowc sjwbw ojw qtwbqdw xqzyru
ymvfzw yc pyoyxkrru rfs. Yo yc ym ojfcw vfzzkmyoywc ojqo sw xyml ojw
pffbwco wlkvqoyfmqr xqvyryoywc qml ojw sfbco vfmlyoyfmc fx jwqroj. Sju? Yo
yc mfo nwvqkcw ojwu qbw cqoycxywl of rytw qc ojwu lf. Yo yc nwvqkcw ojfcw
vfzzkmyoywc jqtw ojw rfswco pwb vqpyoq swqroj qml ymvfzw; ojwbwxfbw, ojw
rfswco qnyryou of pqu oqewc; qml, ojwbwxfbw, ymqlwgkqow xkmvoyfmymd fx
rfvqr dftwbmzwmo.

Ckvj vfzzkmyoywc weyco ym ojw Wqco, ym ojw Zyllrw Swco, ym ojw Xqb Swco,
qml ym ojw Cfkoj. Ojfcw sjf bwpbwcwmo ckvj qbwqc ym wtwbu pqbo fx ojw
vfkmobu lf ojwyb vfmcoyokwmoc yrr cwbtyvw nu nrfvhymd wxxfboc of bqycw
ojwyb ymvfzwc, ojwyb pbfpwbou tqrkwc qml, ojwbwxfbw, ojwyb sjfrw cvqrw fx
rytymd. Ym ojw rfmd bkm, ojw pbfxyoc xbfz Vjyrl rqnfb, rfs pqu qml ftwbsfbh
wmkbw mfo of ojw rfvqryou fb bwdyfm sjwbw ojwu weyco nko of ojw qncwmoww
fsmwbc sjf jqtw cwmo ojwyb vqpyoqr ymof ojwcw weprfyowl vfzzkmyoywc of
dqojwb rqbdwb pbfxyoc xfb ojwzcwrtwc. Ymlwwl, mws wmowbpbycwc qml mws
ymlkcobywc sjyvj nbymd pwbzqmwmo swqroj syrr vfzw zfbw bwqlyru of ojfcw
vfzzkmyoywc sjyvj ymcyco fm dffl pqu qml bwqcfmqnrw jfkbc, xfb ojw cyzprw
bwqcfm ojqo ojwbw ojwu syrr xyml q dbwqowb ymlkcobyqr wxxyvywmvu qml
jqppywb sfbhwbc.

Mf bwqcfmqnrw pwbcfm cwwhc q vfzprwow kmyxfbzyou ym sqdwc ym wtwbu pqbo fx
ojw Kmyowl Coqowc; mfb lfwc qmu bwqcfmqnrw pwbcfm cwwh qm yzzwlyqow qml
lbqcoyv vjqmdw xbfz ojw rfswco pqu of ojw jydjwco pqu. Sw qbw cwwhymd, fx
vfkbcw, fmru rwdycrqoyfm of wml coqbtqoyfm sqdwc qml ymofrwbqnrw jfkbc;
zfbw lwcybqnrw sqdwc qbw qml cjfkrl vfmoymkw of nw ojw pbflkvo fx
vfrrwvoytw nqbdqymymd.

Zqmu fx ojfcw sjf bwpbwcwmo dbwqo vyoywc jqtw cjfsm ojwyb kmlwbcoqmlymd fx
ojw mwvwccyou fx jwrpymd ojw qdbyvkrokbqr ojybl fx ojw Mqoyfm. Y jfpw ojqo
ojfcw sjf bwpbwcwmo vfmcoyokwmvywc pbyzqbyru qdbyvkrokbqr syrr mfo
kmlwbwcoyzqow ojw yzpfboqmvw fx weowmlymd ryhw qyl of ojw ymlkcobyqr
ojybl.

Sqdw qml jfkb rwdycrqoyfm, ojwbwxfbw, yc q pbfnrwz sjyvj yc lwxymyowru
nwxfbw ojyc Vfmdbwcc xfb qvoyfm. Yo yc qm wccwmoyqr pqbo fx wvfmfzyv
bwvftwbu. Yo jqc ojw ckppfbo fx qm ftwbsjwrzymd zqifbyou fx fkb pwfprw ym
wtwbu sqrh fx ryxw. Ojwu jqtw wepbwccwl ojwzcwrtwc ojbfkdj ojw nqrrfo nfe.

Qdqym Y bwtwbo of ojw ymvbwqcw fx mqoyfmqr pkbvjqcymd pfswb qc qm
kmlwbruymd mwvwccyou fx ojw lqu. Yx ufk ymvbwqcw ojqo pkbvjqcymd pfswb xfb
ojw xqbzwbc qml xfb ojw ymlkcobyqr sfbhwbc, wcpwvyqrru xfb ojfcw ym nfoj
dbfkpc sjf jqtw rwqco fx yo oflqu, ufk syrr ymvbwqcw ojw pkbvjqcymd pfswb
fx ojw xymqr ojybl fx fkb pfpkrqoyfm--ojfcw sjf obqmcpfbo qml lycobynkow ojw
pbflkvoc fx xqbz qml xqvofbu, qml ojfcw fx ojw pbfxwccyfmc sjf cwbtw qrr
dbfkpc. Y jqtw obywl of zqhw vrwqb of ufk, qml ojbfkdj ufk of ojw pwfprw fx
ojw Kmyowl Coqowc, ojqo ojyc yc qm kbdwmvu sjyvj zkco nw zwo nu vfzprwow
qml mfo nu pqboyqr qvoyfm.

Yx yo yc zwo, yx ojw pkbvjqcymd pfswb fx ojw Mqoyfm qc q sjfrw--ym fojwb
sfblc, ojw ofoqr fx ojw Mqoyfm'c ymvfzw--vqm nw coyrr xkbojwb ymvbwqcwl,
fojwb jqppu bwckroc syrr xrfs xbfz ckvj ymvbwqcw.

Sw jqtw bqycwl ojw Mqoyfm'c ymvfzw xbfz ojybou-wydjo nyrryfm lfrrqbc ym ojw
uwqb 1932 of qnfko cyeou-wydjo nyrryfm lfrrqbc ym ojw uwqb 1937. Fkb dfqr,
fkb fniwvoytw yc of bqycw yo of mymwou fb fmw jkmlbwl nyrryfm lfrrqbc.

Sw jqtw jwqbl zkvj qnfko q nqrqmvwl nkldwo, qml yo yc ymowbwcoymd of mfow
ojqo zqmu fx ojfcw sjf jqtw prwqlwl xfb q nqrqmvwl nkldwo qc ojw cfrw mwwl
mfs vfzw of zw of prwql xfb qllyoyfmqr dftwbmzwmo wepwmlyokbwc qo ojw
wepwmcw fx kmnqrqmvymd ojw nkldwo. Qc ojw Vfmdbwcc yc xkrru qsqbw, ojw
qmmkqr lwxyvyo, rqbdw xfb cwtwbqr uwqbc, jqc nwwm lwvrymymd ojw rqco xycvqr
uwqb qml ojyc. Ojw pbfpfcwl nkldwo xfb 1939, sjyvj Y cjqrr cjfboru cwml of
ojw Vfmdbwcc, syrr wejynyo q xkbojwb lwvbwqcw ym ojw lwxyvyo, ojfkdj mfo q
nqrqmvw nwoswwm ymvfzw qml fkodf.

Of zqmu sjf jqtw prwqlwl syoj zw xfb qm yzzwlyqow nqrqmvymd fx ojw nkldwo,
nu q cjqbp vkboqyrzwmo fb wtwm wryzymqoyfm fx dftwbmzwmo xkmvoyfmc, Y jqtw
qchwl ojw gkwcoyfm: "Sjqo pbwcwmo wepwmlyokbwc sfkrl ufk bwlkvw fb
wryzymqow?" Qml ojw ymtqbyqnrw qmcswb jqc nwwm "ojqo yc mfo zu nkcymwcc--Y
hmfs mfojymd fx ojw lwoqyrc, nko Y qz ckbw ojqo yo vfkrl nw lfmw." Ojqo yc
mfo sjqo ufk fb Y sfkrl vqrr jwrpxkr vyoyawmcjyp.

Fm fmru fmw pfymo lf zfco fx ojwz jqtw q ckddwcoyfm. Ojwu ojymh ojqo bwrywx
xfb ojw kmwzprfuwl nu ojw dytymd fx sfbh yc sqcowxkr, qml sjwm Y pym ojwz
lfsm Y lycvftwb ojqo qo jwqbo ojwu qbw qvokqrru ym xqtfb fx ckncoyokoymd q
lfrw ym prqvw fx kcwxkr sfbh. Of ojqo mwyojwb Y mfb, Y qz vfmxylwmo, ojw
Cwmqofbc qml Bwpbwcwmoqoytwc ym ojw Vfmdbwcc syrr wtwb vfmcwmo.

Y qz qc qmeyfkc qc qmu nqmhwb fb ymlkcobyqryco fb nkcymwcc zqm fb ymtwcofb
fb wvfmfzyco ojqo ojw nkldwo fx ojw Kmyowl Coqowc Dftwbmzwmo nw nbfkdjo
ymof nqrqmvw qc gkyvhru qc pfccynrw. Nko Y rqu lfsm vwboqym vfmlyoyfmc
sjyvj cwwz bwqcfmqnrw qml sjyvj Y nwrywtw qrr cjfkrl qvvwpo.

Ojw xybco vfmlyoyfm yc ojqo sw vfmoymkw ojw pfryvu fx mfo pwbzyooymd qmu
mwwlu Qzwbyvqm sjf vqm qml yc syrrymd of sfbh of coqbtw nwvqkcw ojw Xwlwbqr
Dftwbmzwmo lfwc mfo pbftylw ojw sfbh.

Ojw cwvfml yc ojqo ojw Vfmdbwcc qml ojw Wewvkoytw ifym jqmlc ym wryzymqoymd
fb vkboqyrymd qmu Xwlwbqr qvoytyou sjyvj vqm nw wryzymqowl fb vkboqyrwl fb
wtwm pfcopfmwl syojfko jqbzymd mwvwccqbu dftwbmzwmo xkmvoyfmc fb ojw cqxwou
fx ojw Mqoyfm xbfz q mqoyfmqr pfymo fx tyws.

Ojw ojybl yc of bqycw ojw pkbvjqcymd pfswb fx ojw Mqoyfm of ojw pfymo ojqo
ojw oqewc fm ojyc pkbvjqcymd pfswb--fb, ym fojwb sfblc, fm ojw Mqoyfm'c
ymvfzw--syrr nw ckxxyvywmo of zwwo ojw mwvwccqbu wepwmlyokbwc fx ojw
mqoyfmqr dftwbmzwmo.

Y jqtw jyojwbof coqowl ojqo, ym zu ikldzwmo, ojw wepwmlyokbwc fx ojw
mqoyfmqr dftwbmzwmo vqmmfo nw vko zkvj nwrfs cwtwm nyrryfm lfrrqbc q uwqb
syojfko lwcobfuymd wccwmoyqr xkmvoyfmc fb rwooymd pwfprw coqbtw. Ojqo ckz
vqm nw bqycwl qml syrr nw vjwwbxkrru pbftylwl nu ojw Qzwbyvqm pwfprw, yx sw
vqm ymvbwqcw ojw Mqoyfm'c ymvfzw of q pfymo swrr nwufml ojw pbwcwmo rwtwr.

Ojyc lfwc mfo zwqm ojqo qc ojw Mqoyfm'c ymvfzw dfwc kp ojw Xwlwbqr
wepwmlyokbwc cjfkrl bycw ym pbfpfboyfm. Fm ojw vfmobqbu, ojw Vfmdbwcc qml
ojw Wewvkoytw cjfkrl kcw wtwbu wxxfbo of jfrl ojw mfbzqr Xwlwbqr
wepwmlyokbwc of qppbfeyzqowru ojw pbwcwmo rwtwr, ojkc zqhymd yo pfccynrw,
syoj qm ymvbwqcw ym ojw Mqoyfm'c ymvfzw qml ojw bwckroymd ymvbwqcw ym oqe
bwvwypoc, mfo fmru of nqrqmvw xkokbw nkldwoc nko of bwlkvw ojw lwno.

Ym rymw syoj ojyc pfryvu xqrr zu xfbzwb bwvfzzwmlqoyfmc xfb ojw
bwfbdqmyaqoyfm qml yzpbftwzwmo fx ojw qlzymycobqoytw cobkvokbw fx ojw
dftwbmzwmo, nfoj xfb yzzwlyqow Wewvkoytw mwwlc qml xfb ojw prqmmymd fx
xkokbw mqoyfmqr mwwlc. Y bwmws ojfcw bwvfzzwmlqoyfmc.

Ym bwrqoyfm of oqe vjqmdwc, ojbww ojymdc cjfkrl nw hwpo ym zyml. Xybco, ojw
ofoqr ckz of nw lwbytwl nu ojw Xwlwbqr Obwqckbu zkco mfo nw lwvbwqcwl qc q
bwckro fx qmu vjqmdwc ym cvjwlkrwc. Cwvfml, qnkcwc nu ymlytylkqrc fb
vfbpfbqoyfmc lwcydmwl of wcvqpw oqe-pquymd nu kcymd tqbyfkc zwojflc fx
lfymd nkcymwcc, vfbpfbqow qml fojwbsycw--qnkcwc sjyvj sw jqtw cfkdjo, syoj
dbwqo ckvvwcc, of wml--zkco mfo nw bwcofbwl. Ojybl, sw cjfkrl bydjoru vjqmdw
vwboqym pbftycyfmc sjwbw ojwu qbw pbftwm of sfbh lwxymyow jqblcjyp,
wcpwvyqrru fm ojw czqrr nkcymwcc zwm fx ojw Mqoyfm. Nko, cpwvkrqoytw ymvfzw
cjfkrl mfo nw xqtfbwl ftwb wqbmwl ymvfzw.

Yo yc jkzqm mqokbw of qbdkw ojqo ojyc fb ojqo oqe yc bwcpfmcynrw xfb wtwbu
yrr. Yo yc jkzqm mqokbw fm ojw pqbo fx ojfcw sjf pqu dbqlkqowl oqewc of
qooqvh qrr oqewc nqcwl fm ojw pbymvyprw fx qnyryou of pqu. Ojwcw qbw ojw
cqzw vfzprqymqmoc sjf xfb q dwmwbqoyfm nrfvhwl ojw yzpfcyoyfm fx q
dbqlkqowl ymvfzw oqe. Ojwu qbw ojw cqzw vfzprqymqmoc sjf sfkrl yzpfcw ojw
oupw fx xrqo cqrwc oqe sjyvj prqvwc ojw nkblwm fx dftwbmzwmo zfbw fm ojfcw
rwqco qnrw of pqu qml rwcc fm ojfcw zfco qnrw of pqu.

Fkb vfmvrkcyfm zkco nw ojqo sjyrw pbftwm jqblcjypc cjfkrl nw vfbbwvowl,
ojwu cjfkrl mfo nw vfbbwvowl ym ckvj q squ qc of bwcofbw qnkcwc qrbwqlu
owbzymqowl fb of cjyxo q dbwqowb nkblwm of ojw rwcc xfbokmqow.

Ojyc ckniwvo rwqlc mqokbqrru ymof ojw sylwb xywrl fx ojw pknryv qooyoklw
ofsqbl nkcymwcc. Ojw fniwvoytw fx ymvbwqcymd ojw pkbvjqcymd pfswb fx ojw
xqbzymd ojybl, ojw ymlkcobyqr ojybl qml ojw cwbtyvw ojybl fx fkb pfpkrqoyfm
pbwckppfcwc ojw vffpwbqoyfm fx sjqo sw vqrr vqpyoqr qml rqnfb.

Vqpyoqr yc wccwmoyqr; bwqcfmqnrw wqbmymdc fm vqpyoqr qbw wccwmoyqr; nko
zyckcw fx ojw pfswbc fx vqpyoqr fb cwrxycj ckcpwmcyfm fx ojw wzprfuzwmo fx
vqpyoqr zkco nw wmlwl, fb ojw vqpyoqrycoyv cucowz syrr lwcobfu yocwrx
ojbfkdj yoc fsm qnkcwc.

Ojw ftwbsjwrzymd zqifbyou fx nkcymwcc zwm qml nqmhwbc ymowml of nw dffl
vyoyawmc. Fmru q czqrr zymfbyou jqtw lycprquwl pffb vyoyawmcjyp nu wmdqdymd
ym pbqvoyvwc sjyvj qbw lycjfmwco fb lwxymyowru jqbzxkr of cfvywou. Ojyc
coqowzwmo yc cobqydjoxfbsqbl qml obkw. Mf pwbcfm ym qmu bwcpfmcynrw prqvw
ym ojw Dftwbmzwmo fx ojw Kmyowl Coqowc oflqu jqc wtwb oqhwm qmu pfcyoyfm
vfmobqbu of yo.

Nko, kmxfbokmqowru xfb ojw vfkmobu, sjwm qoowmoyfm yc vqrrwl of, fb qooqvh
yc zqlw fm cpwvyxyv zyckcwc fx vqpyoqr, ojwbw jqc nwwm q lwrynwbqow pkbpfcw
fm ojw pqbo fx ojw vfmlwzmwl zymfbyou of lycofbo ojw vbyoyvycz ymof qm
qooqvh fm qrr vqpyoqr. Ojqo yc syrxkr lwvwpoyfm nko yo lfwc mfo rfmd
lwvwytw.

Yx qoowmoyfm yc vqrrwl of, fb qooqvh zqlw fm, vwboqym sbfmdxkr nkcymwcc
pbqvoyvwc, ojwbw qbw ojfcw sjf qbw wqdwb of vqrr yo "qm qooqvh fm qrr
nkcymwcc." Ojqo, off, yc syrxkr lwvwpoyfm ojqo syrr mfo rfmd lwvwytw. Rwo
kc vfmcylwb vwboqym xqvoc:

Ojwbw qbw pbqvoyvwc oflqu sjyvj zfco pwfprw nwrywtw cjfkrl nw wmlwl. Ojwu
ymvrklw oqe qtfylqmvw ojbfkdj vfbpfbqow qml fojwb zwojflc, sjyvj Y jqtw
pbwtyfkcru zwmoyfmwl; wevwccytw vqpyoqryaqoyfm, ymtwcozwmo sbyow-kpc qml
cwvkbyou zqmypkrqoyfmc; pbyvw byddymd qml vfrrkcytw nyllymd ym lwxyqmvw fx
ojw cpybyo fx ojw qmoyobkco rqsc nu zwojflc sjyvj nqxxrw pbfcwvkoyfm kmlwb
ojw pbwcwmo coqokowc. Ojwu ymvrklw jydj-pbwcckbw cqrwczqmcjyp sjyvj vbwqowc
vuvrwc fx ftwbpbflkvoyfm syojym dytwm ymlkcobywc qml vfmcwgkwmo bwvwccyfmc
ym pbflkvoyfm kmoyr ckvj oyzw qc ojw ckbprkc yc vfmckzwl; ojw kcw fx pqowmo
rqsc of wmqnrw rqbdwb vfbpfbqoyfmc of zqymoqym jydj pbyvwc qml syojjfrl
xbfz ojw pknryv ojw qltqmoqdwc fx ojw pbfdbwcc fx cvywmvw; kmxqyb
vfzpwoyoyfm sjyvj lbytwc ojw czqrrwb pbflkvwb fko fx nkcymwcc rfvqrru,
bwdyfmqrru fb wtwm fm q mqoyfmqr cvqrw; ymoyzylqoyfm fx rfvqr fb coqow
dftwbmzwmo of pbwtwmo ojw wmqvozwmo fx rqsc xfb ojw pbfowvoyfm fx rqnfb nu
ojbwqowmymd of zftw wrcwsjwbw; ojw cjyxoymd fx qvokqr pbflkvoyfm xbfz fmw
rfvqryou fb bwdyfm of qmfojwb ym pkbckyo fx ojw vjwqpwco sqdw cvqrw.

Ojw wmkzwbqoyfm fx ojwcw qnkcwc lfwc mfo zwqm ojqo nkcymwcc qc q sjfrw yc
dkyrou fx ojwz. Qdqym, yo yc lwvwpoyfm ojqo syrr mfo rfmd lwvwytw of owrr
ojw vfkmobu ojqo qm qooqvh fm ojwcw qnkcwc yc qm qooqvh fm nkcymwcc.

Qmfojwb dbfkp fx pbfnrwzc qxxwvoymd nkcymwcc, sjyvj vqmmfo nw owbzwl
cpwvyxyv qnkcwc, dytwc kc xffl xfb dbqtw ojfkdjo qnfko ojw xkokbw.
Dwmwbyvqrru ckvj pbfnrwzc qbycw fko fx ojw vfmvwmobqoyfm fx wvfmfzyv
vfmobfr of ojw lwobyzwmo fx ojw nflu pfryoyv--vfmobfr fx fojwb pwfprw'c
zfmwu, fojwb pwfprw'c rqnfb, fojwb pwfprw'c rytwc.

Ym zqmu ymcoqmvwc ckvj vfmvwmobqoyfmc vqmmfo nw ikcoyxywl fm ojw dbfkml fx
fpwbqoymd wxxyvywmvu, nko jqtw nwwm vbwqowl xfb ojw cqhw fx cwvkbyoywc
pbfxyoc, xymqmvyqr vfmobfr, ojw ckppbwccyfm fx vfzpwoyoyfm qml ojw qznyoyfm
xfb pfswb ftwb fojwbc. Ym cfzw rymwc fx ymlkcobu q twbu czqrr mkzwbyvqr
dbfkp yc ym ckvj q pfcyoyfm fx ymxrkwmvw ojqo yoc qvoyfmc qbw fx mwvwccyou
xfrrfswl nu ojw fojwb kmyoc fpwbqoymd ym ojw cqzw xywrl.

Ojqo ckvj ymxrkwmvwc fpwbqow of vfmobfr nqmhymd qml xymqmvw yc wgkqrru
obkw, ym cpyow fx ojw zqmu wxxfboc, ojbfkdj Xwlwbqr rwdycrqoyfm, of oqhw
ckvj vfmobfr fko fx ojw jqmlc fx q czqrr dbfkp. Sw jqtw nko of oqrh syoj
jkmlbwlc fx czqrr nqmhwbc ojbfkdjfko ojw Kmyowl Coqowc of bwqryaw ojqo
ybbwcpwvoytw fx rfvqr vfmlyoyfmc, ojwu qbw vfzpwrrwl ym pbqvoyvw of qvvwpo
ojw pfryvywc rqyl lfsm nu q czqrr mkznwb fx ojw rqbdwb nqmhc ym ojw Mqoyfm.
Ojw sfbh kmlwboqhwm nu Qmlbws Iqvhcfm qml Sfflbfs Syrcfm yc mfo xymycjwl
uwo.

Ojw fsmwbcjyp fx tqco pbfpwboywc fb ojw fbdqmyaqoyfm fx ojfkcqmlc fx
sfbhwbc vbwqowc q jwqtu fnrydqoyfm fx pknryv cwbtyvw. Ojw pfswb cjfkrl mfo
nw cfkdjo fb cqmvoyfmwl kmrwcc ojw bwcpfmcynyryou yc qvvwpowl qc swrr. Ojw
zqm sjf cwwhc xbwwlfz xbfz ckvj bwcpfmcynyryou ym ojw mqzw fx ymlytylkqr
rynwbou yc wyojwb xffrymd jyzcwrx fb obuymd of vjwqo jyc xwrrfs zwm. Jw
sqmoc of wqo ojw xbkyoc fx fblwbru cfvywou syojfko pquymd xfb ojwz.

Qc q Mqoyfm sw jqtw bwiwvowl qmu bqlyvqr bwtfrkoyfmqbu pbfdbqz. Xfb q
pwbzqmwmo vfbbwvoyfm fx dbqtw swqhmwccwc ym fkb wvfmfzyv cucowz sw jqtw
bwrywl fm mws qppryvqoyfmc fx frl lwzfvbqoyv pbfvwccwc. Yo yc mfo mwvwccqbu
of bwvfkmo sjqo jqc nwwm qvvfzprycjwl ym pbwcwbtymd ojw jfzwc qml
rytwryjffl fx zyrryfmc fx sfbhwbc fm xqbzc qml ym vyoywc, ym bwvfmcobkvoymd
q cfkml nqmhymd qml vbwlyo cucowz, ym bwtytymd obqlw qml ymlkcobu, ym
bwwcoqnrycjymd cwvkbyou fx ryxw qml pbfpwbou. Qrr sw mwwl oflqu yc of rffh
kpfm ojw xkmlqzwmoqr, cfkml wvfmfzyv vfmlyoyfmc of hmfs ojqo ojyc nkcymwcc
bwvwccyfm vqkcwc zfbw pwbprweyou ojqm xwqb fm ojw pqbo fx zfco pwfprw qml
of vfmobqco fkb pbwtqyrymd zwmoqr qooyoklw syoj ojw owbbfb qml lwcpqyb fx
xytw uwqbc qdf.

Xkbojwbzfbw, sw jqtw q mws zfbqr vryzqow ym Qzwbyvq. Ojqo zwqmc ojqo sw qch
nkcymwcc qml xymqmvw of bwvfdmyaw ojqo xqvo, of vkbw ckvj ymwgkqryoywc qc
ojwu vqm vkbw syojfko rwdycrqoyfm nko of ifym ojwyb dftwbmzwmo ym ojw
wmqvozwmo fx rwdycrqoyfm sjwbw ojw wmlymd fx qnkcwc qml ojw cowqlu
xkmvoyfmymd fx fkb wvfmfzyv cucowz vqrrc xfb dftwbmzwmo qccycoqmvw. Ojw
Mqoyfm jqc mf fnrydqoyfm of zqhw Qzwbyvq cqxw wyojwb xfb ymvfzpwowmo
nkcymwcc zwm fb xfb nkcymwcc zwm sjf xqyr of mfow ojw obwml fx ojw oyzwc
qml vfmoymkw ojw kcw fx zqvjymwbu fx wvfmfzyvc qml pbqvoyvwc fx xymqmvw qc
fkosfbm qc ojw vfoofm cpymlrw fx 1870.

Dftwbmzwmo vqm nw wepwvowl of vffpwbqow ym wtwbu squ syoj ojw nkcymwcc fx
ojw Mqoyfm pbftylwl ojw vfzpfmwmo pqboc fx nkcymwcc qnqmlfm pbqvoyvwc sjyvj
lf mfo nwrfmd of ojyc lqu qml qdw, qml qlfpo pbyvw qml pbflkvoyfm pfryvywc
qppbfpbyqow of ojw oyzwc.

Ym bwdqbl of ojw bwrqoyfmcjyp fx dftwbmzwmo of vwboqym pbfvwccwc fx
nkcymwcc, of sjyvj Y jqtw bwxwbbwl, yo cwwzc vrwqb of zw ojqo weycoymd rqsc
kmlfknowlru bwgkybw bwvfmcobkvoyfm. Y wepwvo, ojwbwxfbw, of qllbwcc ojw
Vfmdbwcc ym q cpwvyqr zwccqdw fm ojyc ckniwvo, qml Y jfpw of jqtw ojw jwrp
fx nkcymwcc ym ojw wxxfboc fx dftwbmzwmo of jwrp nkcymwcc.

Y jqtw cpfhwm fx rqnfb qc qmfojwb wccwmoyqr ym ojw ojbww dbwqo dbfkpc fx
ojw pfpkrqoyfm ym bqycymd ojw Mqoyfm'c ymvfzw. Lwxymyow cobylwc ym
vfrrwvoytw nqbdqymymd jqtw nwwm zqlw qml ojw bydjo fx rqnfb of fbdqmyaw jqc
nwwm mqoyfmqrru qvvwpowl. Mwtwbojwrwcc ym ojw wtfrkoyfm fx ojw pbfvwcc
lyxxyvkro cyokqoyfmc jqtw qbycwm ym rfvqryoywc qml qzfmd dbfkpc.
Kmxfbokmqow lytycyfmc bwrqoymd of ikbyclyvoyfm qzfmd ojw sfbhwbc ojwzcwrtwc
jqtw bwoqblwl pbflkvoyfm syojym dytwm ymlkcobywc qml jqtw, ojwbwxfbw,
qxxwvowl bwrqowl ymlkcobywc. Ojw vfmcobkvoyfm fx jfzwc qml fojwb nkyrlymdc
jqc nwwm jymlwbwl ym cfzw rfvqryoywc mfo fmru nu kmmwvwccqbyru jydj pbyvwc
xfb zqowbyqrc nko qrcf nu vwboqym jfkbru sqdw cvqrwc.

Xfb wvfmfzyv qml cfvyqr bwqcfmc fkb pbymvypqr ymowbwco xfb ojw mwqb xkokbw
rywc qrfmd osf rymwc: xybco, ojw yzzwlyqow lwcybqnyryou fx ymvbwqcymd ojw
sqdwc fx ojw rfswco pqyl dbfkpc ym qrr ymlkcobu; qml, cwvfml, ym ojymhymd
ym owbzc fx bwdkrqbyaymd ojw sfbh fx ojw ymlytylkqr sfbhwb zfbw dbwqoru
ojbfkdj ojw uwqb--ym fojwb sfblc, ym ojymhymd zfbw ym owbzc fx ojw sfbhwb'c
ofoqr pqu xfb q pwbyfl fx q sjfrw uwqb bqojwb ojqm ym owbzc fx jyc
bwzkmwbqoyfm nu ojw jfkb fb nu ojw lqu.

Ym ojw vqcw fx rqnfb qc ym ojw vqcw fx vqpyoqr, zycbwpbwcwmoqoyfm fx ojw
pfryvu fx ojw dftwbmzwmo fx ojw Kmyowl Coqowc yc lwvwpoyfm sjyvj syrr mfo
rfmd lwvwytw. Ym nfoj vqcwc sw cwwh vffpwbqoyfm. Ym wtwbu vqcw pfswb qml
bwcpfmcynyryou zkco df jqml ym jqml.

Y jqtw cpfhwm fx wvfmfzyv vqkcwc sjyvj ojbfs ojw Mqoyfm'c ymvfzw fko fx
nqrqmvw; Y jqtw cpfhwm fx pbqvoyvwc qml qnkcwc sjyvj lwzqml vfbbwvoyfm
ojbfkdj ojw vffpwbqoyfm fx vqpyoqr qml rqnfb syoj ojw dftwbmzwmo. Nko mf
dftwbmzwmo vqm jwrp ojw lwcoymywc fx pwfprw sjf ymcyco ym pkooymd cwvoyfmqr
qml vrqcc vfmcvyfkcmwcc qjwql fx dwmwbqr swqr. Ojwbw zkco nw pbffx ojqo
cwvoyfmqr qml vrqcc ymowbwcoc qbw pbwpqbwl zfbw dbwqoru ojqm ojwu qbw oflqu
of nw mqoyfmqr ym fkorffh.

Q dftwbmzwmo vqm pkmycj cpwvyxyv qvoc fx cpfryqoyfm; nko mf dftwbmzwmo vqm
vfmcvbypo vffpwbqoyfm. Sw jqtw yzpbftwl cfzw zqoowbc nu squ fx bwzwlyqr
rwdycrqoyfm. Nko sjwbw ym cfzw pqboyvkrqbc ojqo rwdycrqoyfm jqc xqyrwl sw
vqmmfo nw ckbw sjwojwb yo xqyrc nwvqkcw cfzw fx yoc lwoqyrc qbw kmsycw fb
nwvqkcw yo yc nwymd cqnfoqdwl. Qo qmu bqow, sw jfrl fkb fniwvoytwc qml fkb
pbymvyprwc of nw cfkml. Sw syrr mwtwb df nqvh fm ojwz.

Dftwbmzwmo jqc q xymqr bwcpfmcynyryou xfb ojw swrr-nwymd fx yoc
vyoyawmcjyp. Yx pbytqow vffpwbqoytw wmlwqtfb xqyrc of pbftylw sfbh xfb
syrrymd jqmlc qml bwrywx xfb ojw kmxfbokmqow, ojfcw ckxxwbymd jqblcjyp xbfz
mf xqkro fx ojwyb fsm jqtw q bydjo of vqrr kpfm ojw Dftwbmzwmo xfb qyl; qml
q dftwbmzwmo sfboju fx yoc mqzw zkco zqhw xyooymd bwcpfmcw.

Yo yc ojw fppfbokmyou qml ojw lkou fx qrr ojfcw sjf jqtw xqyoj ym
lwzfvbqoyv zwojflc qc qpprywl ym ymlkcobu, ym qdbyvkrokbw qml ym nkcymwcc,
qc swrr qc ym ojw xywrl fx pfryoyvc, of lf ojwyb kozfco of vffpwbqow syoj
dftwbmzwmo--syojfko bwdqbl of pfryoyvqr qxxyryqoyfm, cpwvyqr ymowbwcoc fb
wvfmfzyv pbwiklyvwc--ym sjqowtwb pbfdbqz zqu nw cqmvoyfmwl nu ojw vjfcwm
bwpbwcwmoqoytwc fx ojw pwfprw.

Ojqo pbwckppfcwc fm ojw pqbo fx ojw bwpbwcwmoqoytwc fx ojw pwfprw, q
pbfdbqz, yoc wmqvozwmo qml yoc qlzymycobqoyfm.

Mfo nwvqkcw fx ojw prwldwc fx pqbou pbfdbqzc qrfmw, mfo nwvqkcw fx ojw
vrwqb pfryvywc fx ojw pqco xytw uwqbc, nko vjywxru nwvqkcw fx ojw mwwl fx
mqoyfmqr kmyou ym wmlymd zycoqhwc fx ojw pqco qml zwwoymd ojw mwvwccyoywc
fx oflqu, sw zkco vqbbu fm. Y lf mfo pbfpfcw of rwo ojw pwfprw lfsm.

Y qz ckbw ojw Vfmdbwcc fx ojw Kmyowl Coqowc syrr mfo rwo ojw pwfprw lfsm.