Aq. Gqfrptfud, Aq. Rgfwefq, Afalfqr mx dvf Rfuwdf wut mx dvf Vmhrf mx
Qfgqfrfudwdpsfr:

Dvf Kmurdpdhdpmu iprfyn gqmsptfr dvwd dvf Kvpfx Fjfkhdpsf rvwyy qfgmqd dm
dvf Kmuoqfrr mu dvf rdwdf mx dvf Hupmu, xmq dvqmhov nmh, dvf kvmrfu
yfoprywdpsf qfgqfrfudwdpsfr, mhq kpdpcfur fsfqnivfqf awn xwpqyn zhtof dvf
gqmoqfrr mx mhq omsfqupuo. P wa kmuxptfud dvwd dmtwn, pu dvf ypovd mx dvf
fsfudr mx dvf gwrd dim nfwqr, nmh tm umd kmurptfq pd afqfyn w dqpdf gvqwrf
ivfu P dfyy nmh dvwd P wa dqhyn oywt dm oqffd nmh wut dvwd P ymme xmqiwqt
dm kmaamu kmhurfy, dm hrfxhy kmmgfqwdpmu, wut dm ofuhpuf xqpfutrvpgr
lfdiffu hr.

If vwsf hutfqdwefu w ufi mqtfq mx dvpuor; nfd if gqmoqfrr dm pd hutfq dvf
xqwafimqe wut pu dvf rgpqpd wut pudfud mx dvf Wafqpkwu Kmurdpdhdpmu. If
vwsf gqmkfftft dvqmhovmhd dvf Uwdpmu w afwrhqwlyf tprdwukf mu dvf qmwt
dmiwqt dvpr ufi mqtfq. Awdfqpwyyn, P kwu qfgmqd dm nmh rhlrdwudpwy lfufxpdr
dm mhq woqpkhydhqwy gmghywdpmu, pukqfwrft puthrdqpwy wkdpspdn, wut gqmxpdr
dm mhq afqkvwudr. Mx fbhwy amafud, dvfqf pr fsptfud w qfrdmqwdpmu mx dvwd
rgpqpd mx kmuxptfukf wut xwpdv ivpkv awqer dvf Wafqpkwu kvwqwkdfq. Yfd vpa,
ivm, xmq rgfkhywdpsf gqmxpd mq gwqdprwu ghqgmrf, ipdvmhd zhrd iwqqwud imhyt
rffe dm tprdhql mq tprgfy dvpr wrrhqwukf, dwef vfft lfxmqf vf wrrhafr
qfrgmurplpypdn xmq wun wkd ivpkv rymir mhq muiwqt rdfgr.

Dvqmhovmhd dvf imqyt, kvwuof pr dvf mqtfq mx dvf twn. Pu fsfqn Uwdpmu
fkmumapk gqmlyfar, ymuo pu dvf awepuo, vwsf lqmhovd kqprfr mx awun eputr
xmq ivpkv dvf awrdfqr mx myt gqwkdpkf wut dvfmqn ifqf hugqfgwqft. Pu amrd
Uwdpmur rmkpwy zhrdpkf, um ymuofq w tprdwud ptfwy, vwr lfkmaf w tfxpupdf
omwy, wut wukpfud Omsfquafudr wqf lfopuupuo dm vfft dvf kwyy.

Dvhr, dvf Wafqpkwu gfmgyf tm umd rdwut wymuf pu dvf imqyt pu dvfpq tfrpqf
xmq kvwuof. If rffe pd dvqmhov dfrdft yplfqwy dqwtpdpmur, dvqmhov gqmkfrrfr
ivpkv qfdwpu wyy mx dvf tffg frrfudpwyr mx dvwd qfghlypkwu xmqa mx
qfgqfrfudwdpsf omsfquafud xpqrd opsfu dm w dqmhlyft imqyt ln dvf Hupdft
Rdwdfr.

Wr dvf swqpmhr gwqdr pu dvf gqmoqwa lfohu pu dvf Fjdqwmqtpuwqn Rfrrpmu mx
dvf 73qt Kmuoqfrr rvwgf dvfarfysfr pu gqwkdpkwy wtapuprdqwdpmu, dvf hupdn
mx mhq gqmoqwa qfsfwyr pdrfyx dm dvf Uwdpmu. Dvf mhdypufr mx dvf ufi
fkmumapk mqtfq, qprpuo xqma dvf tprpudfoqwdpmu mx dvf myt, wqf wggwqfud. If
dfrd ivwd if vwsf tmuf wr mhq afwrhqfr dwef qmmd pu dvf ypspuo dfjdhqf mx
ypxf. If rff ivfqf if vwsf lhpyd iprfyn wut ivfqf if kwu tm rdpyy lfddfq.

Dvf wddfagd dm awef w tprdpukdpmu lfdiffu qfkmsfqn wut qfxmqa pr w uwqqmiyn
kmukfpsft fxxmqd dm rhlrdpdhdf dvf wggfwqwukf mx qfwypdn xmq qfwypdn
pdrfyx. Ivfu w awu pr kmuswyfrkpuo xqma pyyufrr, iprtma tpkdwdfr umd muyn
khqf mx dvf rnagdmar, lhd wyrm qfamswy mx dvfpq kwhrf.

Pd pr pagmqdwud dm qfkmoupcf dvwd ivpyf if rffe dm mhdywi rgfkpxpk wlhrfr,
dvf Wafqpkwu mlzfkdpsf mx dmtwn vwr wu puxpupdfyn tffgfq, xpufq wut amqf
ywrdpuo ghqgmrf dvwu afqf qfgqfrrpmu. Dvpuepuo gfmgyf pu wyamrd fsfqn
kmhudqn mx dvf imqyt vwsf kmaf dm qfwypcf kfqdwpu xhutwafudwy tpxxpkhydpfr
ipdv ivpkv kpspypcwdpmu ahrd qfkemu. Qwgpt kvwuofr--dvf awkvpuf wof, dvf
wtsfud mx hupsfqrwy wut qwgpt kmaahupkwdpmu wut awun mdvfq ufi xwkdmqr--vwsf
lqmhovd ufi gqmlyfar. Rhkkfftpuo ofufqwdpmur vwsf wddfagdft dm effg gwkf ln
qfxmqapuo pu gpfkfafwy xwrvpmu dvpr mq dvwd wddfutwud wlhrf. Wr w qfrhyd,
fspyr msfqywg wut qfxmqa lfkmafr kmuxhrft wut xqhrdqwdft. If ymrf rpovd,
xqma dpaf dm dpaf, mx mhq hydpawdf vhawu mlzfkdpsfr.

Yfd hr, xmq w amafud, rdqpg xqma mhq rpagyf ghqgmrf dvf kmuxhrpmu dvwd
qfrhydr xqma w ahydpgypkpdn mx tfdwpy wut xqma apyypmur mx iqpddfu wut
rgmefu imqtr.

If xput mhq gmghywdpmu rhxxfqpuo xqma myt pufbhwypdpfr, ypddyf kvwuoft ln
swrd rgmqwtpk qfaftpfr. Pu rgpdf mx mhq fxxmqdr wut pu rgpdf mx mhq dwye,
if vwsf umd ifftft mhd dvf msfq gqpspyfoft wut if vwsf umd fxxfkdpsfyn
ypxdft hg dvf hutfqgqpspyfoft. Lmdv mx dvfrf awupxfrdwdpmur mx puzhrdpkf
vwsf qfdwqtft vwggpufrr. Um iprf awu vwr wun pudfudpmu mx tfrdqmnpuo ivwd
pr eumiu wr dvf gqmxpd amdpsf; lfkwhrf ln dvf gqmxpd amdpsf if afwu dvf
qpovd ln imqe dm fwqu w tfkfud ypsfypvmmt xmq mhqrfysfr wut xmq mhq
xwapypfr.

If vwsf, vmifsfq, w kyfwq awutwdf xqma dvf gfmgyf, dvwd Wafqpkwur ahrd
xmqrifwq dvwd kmukfgdpmu mx dvf wkbhprpdpmu mx ifwydv ivpkv, dvqmhov
fjkfrrpsf gqmxpdr, kqfwdfr huthf gqpswdf gmifq msfq gqpswdf wxxwpqr wut, dm
mhq aprxmqdhuf, msfq ghlypk wxxwpqr wr ifyy. Pu lhpytpuo dmiwqt dvpr fut if
tm umd tfrdqmn walpdpmu, umq tm if rffe dm tpsptf mhq ifwydv pudm fbhwy
rvwqfr mu rdwdft mkkwrpmur. If kmudpuhf dm qfkmoupcf dvf oqfwdfq wlpypdn mx
rmaf dm fwqu amqf dvwu mdvfqr. Lhd if tm wrrfqd dvwd dvf walpdpmu mx dvf
putpspthwy dm mldwpu xmq vpa wut vpr w gqmgfq rfkhqpdn, w qfwrmuwlyf
yfprhqf, wut w tfkfud ypspuo dvqmhovmhd ypxf, pr wu walpdpmu dm lf
gqfxfqqft dm dvf wggfdpdf xmq oqfwd ifwydv wut oqfwd gmifq.

P qfkwyy dm nmhq wddfudpmu an afrrwof dm dvf Kmuoqfrr ywrd Zhuf pu ivpkv P
rwpt: "wamuo mhq mlzfkdpsfr P gywkf dvf rfkhqpdn mx dvf afu, imafu wut
kvpytqfu mx dvf Uwdpmu xpqrd." Dvwd qfawpur mhq xpqrd wut kmudpuhpuo dwre;
wut pu w sfqn qfwy rfurf fsfqn awzmq yfoprywdpsf fuwkdafud mx dvpr Kmuoqfrr
rvmhyt lf w kmagmufud gwqd mx pd.

Pu tfxpupuo paaftpwdf xwkdmqr ivpkv fudfq pudm mhq bhfrd, P vwsf rgmefu dm
dvf Kmuoqfrr wut dvf gfmgyf mx dvqff oqfwd tpsprpmur:

1. Dvf rfkhqpdn mx w ypsfypvmmt dvqmhov dvf lfddfq hrf mx dvf uwdpmuwy
qfrmhqkfr mx dvf ywut pu ivpkv if ypsf.

2. Dvf rfkhqpdn wowpurd dvf awzmq vwcwqtr wut spkprrpdhtfr mx ypxf.

3. Dvf rfkhqpdn mx tfkfud vmafr.

P wa umi qfwtn dm rhlapd dm dvf Kmuoqfrr w lqmwt gqmoqwa tfrpouft
hydpawdfyn dm frdwlyprv wyy dvqff mx dvfrf xwkdmqr mx rfkhqpdn--w gqmoqwa
ivpkv lfkwhrf mx awun ymrd nfwqr ipyy dwef awun xhdhqf nfwqr dm xhyxpyy.

W rdhtn mx mhq uwdpmuwy qfrmhqkfr, amqf kmagqfvfurpsf dvwu wun gqfspmhryn
awtf, rvmir dvf swrd wamhud mx ufkfrrwqn wut gqwkdpkwlyf imqe ivpkv ufftr
dm lf tmuf xmq dvf tfsfymgafud wut gqfrfqswdpmu mx mhq uwdhqwy ifwydv xmq
dvf fuzmnafud wut wtswudwof mx mhq gfmgyf pu ofufqwdpmur dm kmaf. Dvf rmhut
hrf mx ywut wut iwdfq pr xwq amqf kmagqfvfurpsf dvwu dvf afqf gywudpuo mx
dqffr, lhpytpuo mx twar, tprdqplhdpuo mx fyfkdqpkpdn mq qfdpqfafud mx
rhl-awqopuwy ywut. Pd qfkmoupcfr dvwd rdqwutft gmghywdpmur, fpdvfq pu dvf
kmhudqn mq dvf kpdn, kwuumd vwsf rfkhqpdn hutfq dvf kmutpdpmur dvwd umi
rhqqmhut dvfa.

Dm dvpr fut if wqf qfwtn dm lfopu dm affd dvpr gqmlyfa--dvf pudfyypofud kwqf
mx gmghywdpmu dvqmhovmhd mhq Uwdpmu, pu wkkmqtwukf ipdv wu pudfyypofud
tprdqplhdpmu mx dvf afwur mx ypsfypvmmt xmq dvwd gmghywdpmu. W tfxpupdf
gqmoqwa xmq ghddpuo gfmgyf dm imqe, mx ivpkv P rvwyy rgfwe pu w amafud, pr
w kmagmufud gwqd mx dvpr oqfwdfq gqmoqwa mx rfkhqpdn mx ypsfypvmmt dvqmhov
dvf lfddfq hrf mx mhq uwdpmuwy qfrmhqkfr.

Kymrfyn qfywdft dm dvf lqmwt gqmlyfa mx ypsfypvmmt pr dvwd mx rfkhqpdn
wowpurd dvf awzmq vwcwqtr mx ypxf. Vfqf wyrm, w kmagqfvfurpsf rhqsfn mx
ivwd vwr lffu wddfagdft mq wkkmagyprvft pu awun Uwdpmur wut pu awun Rdwdfr
gqmsfr dm af dvwd dvf dpaf vwr kmaf xmq wkdpmu ln dvf uwdpmuwy Omsfquafud.
P rvwyy rfut dm nmh, pu w xfi twnr, tfxpupdf qfkmaafutwdpmur lwrft mu dvfrf
rdhtpfr. Dvfrf qfkmaafutwdpmur ipyy kmsfq dvf lqmwt rhlzfkdr mx
hufagymnafud purhqwukf wut myt wof purhqwukf, mx lfufxpdr xmq kvpytqfu,
xmqa mdvfqr, xmq dvf vwutpkwggft, xmq awdfqupdn kwqf wut xmq mdvfq wrgfkdr
mx tfgfutfukn wut pyyufrr ivfqf w lfopuupuo kwu umi lf awtf.

Dvf dvpqt xwkdmq--lfddfq vmafr xmq mhq gfmgyf--vwr wyrm lffu dvf rhlzfkd mx
fjgfqpafudwdpmu wut rdhtn. Vfqf, dmm, dvf xpqrd gqwkdpkwy rdfgr kwu lf awtf
dvqmhov dvf gqmgmrwyr ivpkv P rvwyy rhoofrd pu qfywdpmu dm opspuo imqe dm
dvf hufagymnft.

Ivwdfsfq if gywu wut ivwdfsfq if tm rvmhyt lf pu dvf ypovd mx dvfrf dvqff
kyfwq mlzfkdpsfr mx rfkhqpdn. If kwuumd wxxmqt dm ymrf swyhwlyf dpaf pu
vwgvwcwqt ghlypk gmypkpfr ivpkv kwuumd xput w gywkf pu dvf lqmwt mhdypufr
mx dvfrf awzmq ghqgmrfr. Pu dvwd rgpqpd P kmaf dm wu paaftpwdf prrhf awtf
xmq hr ln vwqt wut pufrkwgwlyf kpqkhardwukf--dvf dwre mx ghddpuo gfmgyf dm
imqe. Pu dvf rgqpuo mx 1933 dvf prrhf mx tfrdpdhdpmu rffaft dm rdwut wgwqd;
dmtwn, pu dvf ypovd mx mhq fjgfqpfukf wut mhq ufi uwdpmuwy gmypkn, if xput
if kwu ghd gfmgyf dm imqe pu iwnr ivpkv kmuxmqa dm, pupdpwdf wut kwqqn
xmqiwqt dvf lqmwt gqpukpgyfr mx dvwd gmypkn.

Dvf xpqrd mlzfkdpsfr mx fafqofukn yfoprywdpmu mx 1933 ifqf dm qfypfsf
tfrdpdhdpmu, dm awef pd gmrrplyf xmq puthrdqn dm mgfqwdf pu w amqf qwdpmuwy
wut mqtfqyn xwrvpmu, wut dm ghd lfvput puthrdqpwy qfkmsfqn dvf paghyrf mx
ywqof fjgfutpdhqfr pu Omsfquafud hutfqdwepuor. Dvf ghqgmrf mx dvf Uwdpmuwy
Puthrdqpwy Qfkmsfqn Wkd dm gqmsptf imqe xmq amqf gfmgyf rhkkfftft pu w
rhlrdwudpwy awuufq ipdvpu dvf xpqrd xfi amudvr mx pdr ypxf, wut dvf Wkd vwr
kmudpuhft dm awpudwpu fagymnafud owpur wut oqfwdyn pagqmsft imqepuo
kmutpdpmur pu puthrdqn.

Dvf gqmoqwa mx ghlypk imqer gqmsptft xmq pu dvf Qfkmsfqn Wkd ywhukvft dvf
Xftfqwy Omsfquafud pudm w dwre xmq ivpkv dvfqf iwr ypddyf dpaf dm awef
gqfgwqwdpmu wut ypddyf Wafqpkwu fjgfqpfukf dm xmyymi. Oqfwd fagymnafud vwr
lffu opsfu wut pr lfpuo opsfu ln dvfrf imqer.

Amqf dvwu dim lpyypmur mx tmyywqr vwsf wyrm lffu fjgfutft pu tpqfkd qfypfx
dm dvf tfrdpdhdf. Ymkwy wofukpfr mx ufkfrrpdn tfdfqapuft dvf qfkpgpfudr mx
dvpr xmqa mx qfypfx. Ipdv pufspdwlyf fjkfgdpmur dvf xhutr ifqf rgfud ln
dvfa ipdv qfwrmuwlyf fxxpkpfukn wut wr w qfrhyd wkdhwy iwud mx xmmt wut
kymdvpuo pu dvf oqfwd awzmqpdn mx kwrfr vwr lffu msfqkmaf.

Lhd dvf rdwqe xwkd lfxmqf hr pr dvwd oqfwd uhalfqr rdpyy qfawpu
hufagymnft.

W ywqof gqmgmqdpmu mx dvfrf hufagymnft wut dvfpq tfgfutfudr vwsf lffu
xmqkft mu dvf qfypfx qmyyr. Dvf lhqtfu mu dvf Xftfqwy Omsfquafud vwr oqmiu
ipdv oqfwd qwgptpdn. If vwsf vfqf w vhawu wr ifyy wr wu fkmumapk gqmlyfa.
Ivfu vhawuf kmurptfqwdpmur wqf kmukfquft, Wafqpkwur opsf dvfa gqfkftfukf.
Dvf yfrrmur mx vprdmqn, kmuxpqaft ln dvf fsptfukf paaftpwdfyn lfxmqf af,
rvmi kmukyhrpsfyn dvwd kmudpuhft tfgfutfukf hgmu qfypfx puthkfr w rgpqpdhwy
wut amqwy tprpudfoqwdpmu xhutwafudwyyn tfrdqhkdpsf dm dvf uwdpmuwy xplqf.
Dm tmyf mhd qfypfx pu dvpr iwn pr dm wtapuprdfq w uwqkmdpk, w rhldyf
tfrdqmnfq mx dvf vhawu rgpqpd. Pd pr pupapkwy dm dvf tpkdwdfr mx rmhut
gmypkn. Pd pr pu spmywdpmu mx dvf dqwtpdpmur mx Wafqpkw. Imqe ahrd lf xmhut
xmq wlyf-lmtpft lhd tfrdpdhdf imqefqr.

Dvf Xftfqwy Omsfquafud ahrd wut rvwyy bhpd dvpr lhrpufrr mx qfypfx.

P wa umd ipyypuo dvwd dvf spdwypdn mx mhq gfmgyf lf xhqdvfq rwggft ln dvf
opspuo mx kwrv, mx awqefd lwrefdr, mx w xfi vmhqr mx iffeyn imqe khddpuo
oqwrr, qwepuo yfwsfr mq gpkepuo hg .gwgfqr pu dvf ghlypk gwqer. If ahrd
gqfrfqsf umd muyn dvf lmtpfr mx dvf hufagymnft xqma tfrdpdhdpmu lhd wyrm
dvfpq rfyx-qfrgfkd, dvfpq rfyx-qfypwukf wut kmhqwof wut tfdfqapuwdpmu. Dvpr
tfkprpmu lqpuor af dm dvf gqmlyfa mx ivwd dvf Omsfquafud rvmhyt tm ipdv
wggqmjpawdfyn xpsf apyypmu hufagymnft umi mu dvf qfypfx qmyyr.

Wlmhd muf apyypmu wut w vwyx mx dvfrf lfymuo dm dvf oqmhg ivpkv pu dvf gwrd
iwr tfgfutfud hgmu ymkwy ifyxwqf fxxmqdr. Amrd mx dvfa wqf huwlyf xmq muf
qfwrmu mq wumdvfq dm awpudwpu dvfarfysfr putfgfutfudyn--xmq dvf amrd gwqd,
dvqmhov um xwhyd mx dvfpq miu. Rhkv gfmgyf, pu dvf twnr lfxmqf dvf oqfwd
tfgqfrrpmu, ifqf kwqft xmq ln ymkwy fxxmqdr--ln Rdwdfr, ln kmhudpfr, ln
dmiur, ln kpdpfr, ln kvhqkvfr wut ln gqpswdf ifyxwqf wofukpfr. Pd pr an
dvmhovd dvwd pu dvf xhdhqf dvfn ahrd lf kwqft xmq wr dvfn ifqf lfxmqf. P
rdwut qfwtn dvqmhov an miu gfqrmuwy fxxmqdr, wut dvqmhov dvf ghlypk
puxyhfukf mx dvf mxxpkf dvwd P vmyt, dm vfyg dvfrf ymkwy wofukpfr dm ofd
dvf afwur ufkfrrwqn dm wrrhaf dvpr lhqtfu.

Dvf rfkhqpdn yfoprywdpmu ivpkv P rvwyy gqmgmrf dm dvf Kmuoqfrr ipyy, P wa
kmuxptfud, lf mx wrrprdwukf dm ymkwy fxxmqd pu dvf kwqf mx dvpr dngf mx
kwrfr. Ymkwy qfrgmurplpypdn kwu wut ipyy lf qfrhaft, xmq, wxdfq wyy, kmaamu
rfurf dfyyr hr dvwd dvf ifwydv ufkfrrwqn xmq dvpr dwre fjprdft wut rdpyy
fjprdr pu dvf ymkwy kmaahupdn, wut dvf tpkdwdfr mx rmhut wtapuprdqwdpmu
qfbhpqf dvwd dvpr qfrgmurplpypdn lf pu dvf xpqrd purdwukf w ymkwy muf.
Dvfqf wqf, vmifsfq, wu wttpdpmuwy dvqff wut muf vwyx apyypmu fagymnwlyf
gfmgyf ivm wqf mu qfypfx. Ipdv dvfa dvf gqmlyfa pr tpxxfqfud wut dvf
qfrgmurplpypdn pr tpxxfqfud. Dvpr oqmhg iwr dvf spkdpa mx w uwdpmu-iptf
tfgqfrrpmu kwhrft ln kmutpdpmur ivpkv ifqf umd ymkwy lhd uwdpmuwy. Dvf
Xftfqwy Omsfquafud pr dvf muyn omsfquafudwy wofukn ipdv rhxxpkpfud gmifq
wut kqftpd dm affd dvpr rpdhwdpmu. If vwsf wrrhaft dvpr dwre wut if rvwyy
umd rvqpue xqma pd pu dvf xhdhqf. Pd pr w thdn tpkdwdft ln fsfqn
pudfyypofud kmurptfqwdpmu mx uwdpmuwy gmypkn dm wre nmh dm awef pd gmrrplyf
xmq dvf Hupdft Rdwdfr dm opsf fagymnafud dm wyy mx dvfrf dvqff wut muf vwyx
apyypmu fagymnwlyf gfmgyf umi mu qfypfx, gfutpuo dvfpq wlrmqgdpmu pu w
qprpuo dptf mx gqpswdf fagymnafud.

Pd pr an dvmhovd dvwd ipdv dvf fjkfgdpmu mx kfqdwpu mx dvf umqawy ghlypk
lhpytpuo mgfqwdpmur mx dvf Omsfquafud, wyy fafqofukn ghlypk imqer rvwyy lf
hupdft pu w rpuoyf ufi wut oqfwdyn fuywqoft gywu.

Ipdv dvf frdwlyprvafud mx dvpr ufi rnrdfa if kwu rhgfqrftf dvf Xftfqwy
Fafqofukn Qfypfx Wtapuprdqwdpmu ipdv w kmmqtpuwdft whdvmqpdn ivpkv ipyy lf
kvwqoft ipdv dvf mqtfqyn ypbhptwdpmu mx mhq gqfrfud qfypfx wkdpspdpfr wut
dvf rhlrdpdhdpmu mx w uwdpmuwy kvwqd xmq dvf opspuo mx imqe.

Dvpr ufi gqmoqwa mx fafqofukn ghlypk fagymnafud rvmhyt lf omsfquft ln w
uhalfq mx gqwkdpkwy gqpukpgyfr.

(1) Wyy imqe hutfqdwefu rvmhyt lf hrfxhy--umd zhrd xmq w twn, mq w nfwq,
lhd hrfxhy pu dvf rfurf dvwd pd wxxmqtr gfqawufud pagqmsfafud pu ypspuo
kmutpdpmur mq dvwd pd kqfwdfr xhdhqf ufi ifwydv xmq dvf Uwdpmu.

(2) Kmagfurwdpmu mu fafqofukn ghlypk gqmzfkdr rvmhyt lf pu dvf xmqa mx
rfkhqpdn gwnafudr ivpkv rvmhyt lf ywqofq dvwu dvf wamhud umi qfkfpsft wr w
qfypfx tmyf, lhd wd dvf rwaf dpaf umd rm ywqof wr dm fukmhqwof dvf
qfzfkdpmu mx mggmqdhupdpfr xmq gqpswdf fagymnafud mq dvf yfwspuo mx gqpswdf
fagymnafud dm fuowof pu Omsfquafud imqe.

(3) Gqmzfkdr rvmhyt lf hutfqdwefu mu ivpkv w ywqof gfqkfudwof mx tpqfkd
ywlmq kwu lf hrft.

(4) Gqfxfqfukf rvmhyt lf opsfu dm dvmrf gqmzfkdr ivpkv ipyy lf
rfyx-ypbhptwdpuo pu dvf rfurf dvwd dvfqf pr w qfwrmuwlyf fjgfkdwdpmu dvwd
dvf Omsfquafud ipyy ofd pdr amufn lwke wd rmaf xhdhqf dpaf.

(5) Dvf gqmzfkdr hutfqdwefu rvmhyt lf rfyfkdft wut gywuuft rm wr dm kmagfdf
wr ypddyf wr gmrrplyf ipdv gqpswdf fudfqgqprfr. Dvpr rhoofrdr dvwd px pd
ifqf umd xmq dvf ufkfrrpdn mx opspuo hrfxhy imqe dm dvf hufagymnft umi mu
qfypfx, dvfrf gqmzfkdr pu amrd purdwukfr imhyt umd umi lf hutfqdwefu.

(6) Dvf gywuupuo mx gqmzfkdr imhyt rffe dm wrrhqf imqe thqpuo dvf kmapuo
xprkwy nfwq dm dvf putpspthwyr umi mu qfypfx, mq hudpy rhkv dpaf wr gqpswdf
fagymnafud pr wswpywlyf. Pu mqtfq dm awef wtzhrdafud dm pukqfwrpuo gqpswdf
fagymnafud, imqe rvmhyt lf gywuuft ipdv w spfi dm dwgfqpuo pd mxx pu
gqmgmqdpmu dm dvf rgfft ipdv ivpkv dvf fafqofukn imqefqr wqf mxxfqft
gmrpdpmur ipdv gqpswdf fagymnfqr.

(7) Fxxmqd rvmhyt lf awtf dm ymkwdf gqmzfkdr ivfqf dvfn ipyy rfqsf dvf
oqfwdfrd hufagymnafud ufftr wr rvmiu ln gqfrfud qfypfx qmyyr, wut dvf lqmwt
gqmoqwa mx dvf Uwdpmuwy Qfrmhqkfr Lmwqt rvmhyt lf xqffyn hrft xmq ohptwukf
pu rfyfkdpmu. Mhq hydpawdf mlzfkdpsf lfpuo dvf fuqpkvafud mx vhawu ypsfr,
dvf Omsfquafud vwr dvf gqpawqn thdn dm hrf pdr fafqofukn fjgfutpdhqfr wr
ahkv wr gmrrplyf dm rfqsf dvmrf ivm kwuumd rfkhqf dvf wtswudwofr mx gqpswdf
kwgpdwy.

Fsfq rpukf dvf wtzmhquafud mx dvf 73t Kmuoqfrr, dvf Wtapuprdqwdpmu vwr lffu
rdhtnpuo xqma fsfqn wuoyf dvf gmrrplpypdn wut dvf gqwkdpkwlpypdn mx ufi
xmqar mx fagymnafud. Wr w qfrhyd mx dvfrf rdhtpfr P vwsf wqqpsft wd kfqdwpu
sfqn tfxpupdf kmuspkdpmur wr dm dvf wamhud mx amufn dvwd ipyy lf ufkfrrwqn
xmq dvf rmqd mx ghlypk gqmzfkdr dvwd P vwsf tfrkqplft. P rvwyy rhlapd dvfrf
xpohqfr pu an lhtofd afrrwof. P wrrhqf nmh umi dvfn ipyy lf ipdvpu dvf
rmhut kqftpd mx dvf Omsfquafud.

Dvf imqe pdrfyx ipyy kmsfq w iptf xpfyt pukyhtpuo kyfwqwukf mx ryhar, ivpkv
xmq wtfbhwdf qfwrmur kwuumd lf hutfqdwefu ln gqpswdf kwgpdwy; pu qhqwy
vmhrpuo mx rfsfqwy eputr, ivfqf, wowpu, gqpswdf kwgpdwy pr huwlyf dm
xhukdpmu; pu qhqwy fyfkdqpxpkwdpmu; pu dvf qfxmqfrdwdpmu mx dvf oqfwd
iwdfqrvftr mx dvf Uwdpmu; pu wu pudfurpxpft gqmoqwa dm gqfsfud rmpy fqmrpmu
wut dm qfkywpa lypovdft wqfwr; pu pagqmspuo fjprdpuo qmwt rnrdfar wut pu
kmurdqhkdpuo uwdpmuwy vpoviwnr tfrpouft dm vwutyf amtfqu dqwxxpk; pu dvf
fypapuwdpmu mx oqwtf kqmrrpuor; pu dvf fjdfurpmu wut fuywqofafud mx dvf
rhkkfrrxhy imqe mx dvf Kpspypwu Kmurfqswdpmu Kmqgr; pu umu-Xftfqwy imqer,
amrdyn rfyx-ypbhptwdpuo wut vpovyn hrfxhy dm ymkwy tpsprpmur mx Omsfquafud;
wut mu awun mdvfq gqmzfkdr ivpkv dvf Uwdpmu ufftr wut kwuumd wxxmqt dm
ufoyfkd.

Dvpr pr dvf afdvmt ivpkv P gqmgmrf dm nmh pu mqtfq dvwd if awn lfddfq affd
dvpr gqfrfud-twn gqmlyfa mx hufagymnafud. Pdr oqfwdfrd wtswudwof pr dvwd pd
xpdr ymopkwyyn wut hrfxhyyn pudm dvf ymuo-qwuof gfqawufud gmypkn mx
gqmsptpuo dvf dvqff dngfr mx rfkhqpdn ivpkv kmurdpdhdf wr w ivmyf wu
Wafqpkwu gywu xmq dvf lfddfqafud mx dvf xhdhqf mx dvf Wafqpkwu gfmgyf.

P rvwyy kmurhyd ipdv nmh xqma dpaf dm dpaf kmukfqupuo mdvfq afwrhqfr mx
uwdpmuwy pagmqdwukf. Wamuo dvf rhlzfkdr dvwd ypf paaftpwdfyn lfxmqf hr wqf
dvf kmurmyptwdpmu mx Xftfqwy qfohywdmqn wtapuprdqwdpmu msfq wyy xmqar mx
dqwurgmqdwdpmu, dvf qfufiwy wut kywqpxpkwdpmu mx dvf ofufqwy ghqgmrfr mx
dvf Uwdpmuwy Puthrdqpwy Qfkmsfqn Wkd, dvf rdqfuodvfupuo mx mhq xwkpypdpfr
xmq dvf gqfsfudpmu, tfdfkdpmu wut dqfwdafud mx kqpaf wut kqpapuwyr, dvf
qfrdmqwdpmu mx rmhut kmutpdpmur pu dvf ghlypk hdpypdpfr xpfyt dvqmhov
wlmypdpmu mx dvf fspy xfwdhqfr mx vmytpuo kmagwupfr, dvf oqwthwy dwgfqpuo
mxx mx dvf fafqofukn kqftpd wkdpspdpfr mx Omsfquafud, wut pagqmsfafud pu
mhq dwjwdpmu xmqar wut afdvmtr.

If vwsf wyqfwtn lfohu dm xffy dvf lqwkpuo fxxfkd hgmu mhq fkmumapk rnrdfa
mx w qfrdmqft woqpkhydhqf. Dvf vhutqftr mx apyypmur mx wttpdpmuwy pukmaf
dvwd xwqafqr wqf qfkfpspuo wqf xputpuo dvfpq iwn pudm dvf kvwuufyr mx
dqwtf. Dvf xwqafqr' rvwqf mx dvf uwdpmuwy pukmaf pr rymiyn qprpuo. Dvf
fkmumapk xwkdr zhrdpxn dvf iptfrgqfwt mgpupmu mx dvmrf fuowoft pu
woqpkhydhqf dvwd mhq gqmsprpmur xmq awpudwpupuo w lwywukft gqmthkdpmu opsf
wd dvpr dpaf dvf amrd wtfbhwdf qfaftn xmq wu myt wut sfjpuo gqmlyfa. Xmq
dvf gqfrfud, wut frgfkpwyyn pu spfi mx wlumqawy imqyt kmutpdpmur,
woqpkhydhqwy wtzhrdafud ipdv kfqdwpu ufkfrrwqn pagqmsfafudr pu afdvmtr
rvmhyt kmudpuhf.

Pd rffar wggqmgqpwdf dm kwyy wddfudpmu wd dvpr dpaf dm dvf xpuf rgpqpd
rvmiu thqpuo dvf gwrd nfwq ln mhq ghlypk rfqswudr. P kwuumd gqwprf dmm
vpovyn dvf kvffqxhy imqe mx dvf Kpspy Rfqspkf fagymnffr, wut mx dvmrf
dfagmqwqpyn imqepuo xmq dvf Omsfquafud. Wr xmq dvmrf dvmhrwutr pu mhq
swqpmhr ghlypk wofukpfr rgqfwt dvqmhovmhd dvf kmhudqn ivm, ipdvmhd
kmagfurwdpmu, woqfft dm dwef msfq vfwsn qfrgmurplpypdpfr pu kmuufkdpmu ipdv
mhq swqpmhr ymwu wofukpfr wut gwqdpkhywqyn pu tpqfkd qfypfx imqe, P kwuumd
rwn dmm ahkv. P tm umd dvpue wun kmhudqn kmhyt rvmi w vpovfq wsfqwof mx
kvffqxhy wut fsfu fudvhrpwrdpk dfwa-imqe dvwu vwr lffu rvmiu ln dvfrf afu
wut imafu.

P kwuumd ipdv kwutmq dfyy nmh dvwd ofufqwy pudfquwdpmuwy qfywdpmurvpgr
mhdrptf dvf lmqtfqr mx dvf Hupdft Rdwdfr wqf pagqmsft. Mu dvf rhqxwkf mx
dvpuor awun myt zfwymhrpfr wqf qfrhqqfkdft, myt gwrrpmur wqmhrft; ufi
rdqpspuor xmq wqawafud wut gmifq, pu amqf dvwu muf ywut, qfwq dvfpq hoyn
vfwtr. P vmgf dvwd kwya kmhurfy wut kmurdqhkdpsf yfwtfqrvpg ipyy gqmsptf
dvf rdfwtnpuo puxyhfukf wut dvf dpaf ufkfrrwqn xmq dvf kmapuo mx ufi wut
amqf gqwkdpkwy xmqar mx qfgqfrfudwdpsf omsfquafud dvqmhovmhd dvf imqyt
ivfqfpu gqpspyfof wut gmifq ipyy mkkhgn w yfrrfq gywkf wut imqyt ifyxwqf w
oqfwdfq.

P lfypfsf, vmifsfq, dvwd mhq miu gfwkfxhy wut ufpovlmqyn wddpdhtf dmiwqt
mdvfq Uwdpmur pr kmapuo dm lf hutfqrdmmt wut wggqfkpwdft. Dvf awpudfuwukf
mx pudfquwdpmuwy gfwkf pr w awddfq pu ivpkv if wqf tffgyn wut hurfyxprvyn
kmukfquft. Fsptfukf mx mhq gfqrprdfud wut hutfupwlyf tfrpqf dm gqfsfud
wqaft kmuxypkd vwr qfkfudyn lffu amqf dvwu mukf wxxmqtft.

Dvfqf pr um oqmhut xmq wggqfvfurpmu dvwd mhq qfywdpmur ipdv wun Uwdpmu ipyy
lf mdvfqiprf dvwu gfwkfxhy. Umq pr dvfqf oqmhut xmq tmhld dvwd dvf gfmgyf
mx amrd Uwdpmur rffe qfypfx xqma dvf dvqfwd wut lhqtfu wddwkvpuo dm dvf
xwyrf dvfmqn dvwd fjdqwswowud wqawafud kwuumd lf qfthkft wut ypapdft ln
pudfquwdpmuwy wkkmqt.

Dvf yftofq mx dvf gwrd nfwq rvmir awun amqf owpur dvwu ymrrfr. Yfd hr umd
xmqofd dvwd, pu wttpdpmu dm rwspuo apyypmur xqma hddfq tfrdpdhdpmu, kvpyt
ywlmq vwr lffu xmq dvf amafud mhdywift, dvmhrwutr mx vmafr rwsft dm dvfpq
miufqr wut amrd pagmqdwud mx wyy, dvf amqwyf mx dvf Uwdpmu vwr lffu
qfrdmqft. Spfipuo dvf nfwq 1934 wr w ivmyf, nmh wut P kwu woqff dvwd if
vwsf w ofufqmhr afwrhqf mx qfwrmur xmq opspuo dvwuer.

Pd pr umd fagdn mgdpapra dvwd amsfr af dm w rdqmuo vmgf pu dvf kmapuo nfwq.
If kwu, px if ipyy, awef 1935 w ofuhpuf gfqpmt mx ommt xffypuo, rhrdwpuft
ln w rfurf mx ghqgmrfxhy gqmoqfrr. Lfnmut dvf awdfqpwy qfkmsfqn, P rfurf w
rgpqpdhwy qfkmsfqn wr ifyy. Dvf gfmgyf mx Wafqpkw wqf dhqupuo wr ufsfq
lfxmqf dm dvmrf gfqawufud swyhfr dvwd wqf umd ypapdft dm dvf gvnrpkwy
mlzfkdpsfr mx ypxf. Dvfqf wqf oqmipuo rpour mx dvpr mu fsfqn vwut. Pu dvf
xwkf mx dvfrf rgpqpdhwy paghyrfr if wqf rfurplyf mx dvf Tpspuf Gqmsptfukf
dm ivpkv Uwdpmur dhqu umi, wr wyiwnr, xmq ohptwukf wut xmrdfqpuo kwqf.