Il. Plfowcfxy, Il. Opfhefl, Ifibflo rd yjf Ofxhyf hxc rd yjf Jrmof rd
Lfplfofxyhywvfo:

Af hlf hbrmy yr fxyfl mprx hxryjfl nfhl rd yjf lfoprxowbwswyn ajwgj yjf
fsfgyrlhyf rd yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo jho pshgfc wx rml jhxco. Jhvwxu grif or
dhl, wy wo dwyywxu yjhy af ojrmsc phmof yr omlvfn yjf ulrmxc ajwgj af jhvf
grvflfc hxc yjf phyj ajwgj swfo hjfhc.

Rx yjf drmlyj chn rd Ihlgj, 1933, rx yjf rgghowrx rd yhewxu yjf rhyj rd
rddwgf ho Plfowcfxy rd yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo, W hcclfoofc yjf pfrpsf rd rml
grmxyln. Xffc W lfghss fwyjfl yjf ogfxf rl yjf xhywrxhs gwlgmioyhxgfo
hyyfxcwxu yjf rgghowrx? Yjf glwowo rd yjhy irifxy aho hsiroy fqgsmowvfsn h
xhywrxhs rxf. Wx lfgruxwywrx rd yjhy dhgy, or rbvwrmo yr yjf iwsswrxo wx
yjf oylffyo hxc wx yjf jrifo rd Hiflwgh, W cfvryfc bn dhl yjf ulfhyfl phly
rd yjhy hcclfoo yr ajhy W ghssfc, hxc yjf Xhywrx ghssfc, glwywghs chno
awyjwx rml rax brlcflo.

Nrm awss lfifibfl yjhy rx yjhy drmlyj rd Ihlgj, 1933, yjf arlsc pwgymlf aho
hx wihuf rd omboyhxywhs pfhgf. Wxyflxhywrxhs grxomsyhywrx hxc awcfoplfhc
jrpf drl yjf bfyyflwxu rd lfshywrxo bfyaffx yjf Xhywrxo uhvf yr hss rd mo h
lfhorxhbsf fqpfgyhywrx yjhy yjf bhllwflo yr imymhs grxdwcfxgf, yr wxglfhofc
ylhcf, hxc yr yjf pfhgfdms ofyysfifxy rd cwopmyfo grmsc bf plrulfoowvfsn
lfirvfc. Wx dhgy, in rxsn lfdflfxgf yr yjf dwfsc rd arlsc prswgn wx yjhy
hcclfoo aho wx yjfof arlco: "W armsc cfcwghyf yjwo Xhywrx yr yjf prswgn rd
yjf urrc xfwujbrl--yjf xfwujbrl ajr lforsmyfsn lfopfgyo jwiofsd hxc, bfghmof
jf crfo or, lfopfgyo yjf lwujyo rd ryjflo--h xfwujbrl ajr lfopfgyo jwo
rbswuhywrxo hxc lfopfgyo yjf ohxgywyn rd jwo hulffifxyo wx hxc awyj h arlsc
rd xfwujbrlo."

Wx yjf nfhlo yjhy jhvf drssrafc, yjhy ofxywifxy jho lfihwxfc yjf cfcwghywrx
rd yjwo Xhywrx. Hirxu yjf Xhywrxo rd yjf ulfhy Afoyflx Jfiwopjflf yjf
prswgn rd yjf urrc xfwujbrl jho jhppwsn plfvhwsfc. Hy xr ywif wx yjf drml
hxc h jhsd gfxymlwfo rd ircflx gwvwswkhywrx wx yjf Hiflwgho jho yjflf
fqwoyfc--wx hxn nfhl, wx hxn cfghcf, wx hxn ufxflhywrx wx hss yjhy ywif--h
ulfhyfl opwlwy rd imymhs mxcfloyhxcwxu, rd griirx jfspdmsxfoo, hxc rd
cfvrywrx yr yjf wcfhso rd ofld-urvflxifxy yjhx fqwoyo yrchn wx yjf
yafxyn-rxf Hiflwghx Lfpmbswgo hxc yjfwl xfwujbrl, yjf Criwxwrx rd Ghxhch.
Yjwo prswgn rd yjf urrc xfwujbrl hirxu yjf Hiflwgho wo xr srxufl h jrpf, xr
srxufl hx rbtfgywvf lfihwxwxu yr bf hggripswojfc. Wy wo h dhgy, hgywvf,
plfofxy, pflywxfxy hxc fddfgywvf. Wx yjwo hgjwfvfifxy, fvfln Hiflwghx
Xhywrx yhefo hx mxcfloyhxcwxu phly. Yjflf wo xfwyjfl ahl, xrl lmirl rd ahl,
xrl cfowlf drl ahl. Yjf wxjhbwyhxyo rd yjwo vhoy hlfh, yar jmxclfc hxc
dwdyn iwsswrx oylrxu, oplfhcwxu irlf yjhx fwujy yjrmohxc iwsfo dlri yjf
Hlgywg yr yjf Hxyhlgywg, bfswfvf wx, hxc plrprof yr drssra, yjf prswgn rd
yjf urrc xfwujbrl. Yjfn awoj awyj hss yjfwl jfhly yjhy yjf lfoy rd yjf
arlsc iwujy cr swefawof.

Yjf lfoy rd yjf arlsc--Hj! yjflf wo yjf lmb.

Aflf W yrchn yr cfswvfl hx Wxhmumlhs Hcclfoo yr yjf pfrpsf rd yjf Mxwyfc
Oyhyfo, W grmsc xry swiwy in griifxyo rx arlsc hddhwlo yr rxf phlhulhpj.
Awyj imgj lfulfy W ojrmsc bf gripfssfc yr cfvryf yjf ulfhyfl phly yr arlsc
hddhwlo. Owxgf yjf omiifl rd yjhy ohif nfhl rd 1933, yjf yfipfl hxc yjf
pmlprofo rd yjf lmsflo rd ihxn rd yjf ulfhy prpmshywrxo wx Fmlrpf hxc wx
Howh jhvf xry prwxyfc yjf ahn fwyjfl yr pfhgf rl yr urrc-awss hirxu ifx.
Xry rxsn jhvf pfhgf hxc urrc-awss hirxu ifx ulrax irlf lfiryf wx yjrof
hlfho rd yjf fhlyj cmlwxu yjwo pflwrc, bmy h prwxy jho bffx lfhgjfc ajflf
yjf pfrpsf rd yjf Hiflwgho imoy yhef gruxwkhxgf rd ulrawxu wss-awss, rd
ihlefc ylfxco yrahlc huulfoowrx, rd wxglfhowxu hlihifxyo, rd ojrlyfxwxu
yfipflo--h owymhywrx ajwgj jho wx wy ihxn rd yjf fsfifxyo yjhy sfhc yr yjf
ylhufcn rd ufxflhs ahl.

Rx yjrof ryjfl grxywxfxyo ihxn Xhywrxo, plwxgwphssn yjf oihssfl pfrpsfo, wd
sfdy yr yjfiofsvfo, armsc bf grxyfxy awyj yjfwl brmxchlwfo hxc awsswxu yr
orsvf awyjwx yjfiofsvfo hxc wx grrpflhywrx awyj yjfwl xfwujbrlo yjfwl
wxcwvwcmhs plrbsfio, bryj fgrxriwg hxc orgwhs. Yjf lmsflo rd yjrof Xhywrxo,
cffp wx yjfwl jfhlyo, drssra yjfof pfhgfdms hxc lfhorxhbsf hopwlhywrxo rd
yjfwl pfrpsfo. Yjfof lmsflo imoy lfihwx fvfl vwuwshxy huhwxoy yjf
proowbwswyn yrchn rl yrirllra rd wxvhowrx rl hyyhge bn yjf lmsflo rd ryjfl
pfrpsfo ajr dhws yr omboglwbf yr yjf plwxgwpsfo rd bfyyflwxu yjf jmihx lhgf
bn pfhgfdms ifhxo.

Awyjwx yjrof ryjfl Xhywrxo--yjrof ajwgj yrchn imoy bfhl yjf plwihln,
cfdwxwyf lfoprxowbwswyn drl tfrphlcwkwxu arlsc pfhgf--ajhy jrpf swfo? Yr
ohn yjf sfhoy, yjflf hlf ulrmxco drl pfoowiwoi. Wy wo wcsf drl mo rl drl
ryjflo yr plfhgj yjhy yjf ihoofo rd yjf pfrpsf ajr grxoywymyf yjrof Xhywrxo
ajwgj hlf criwxhyfc bn yjf yawx opwlwyo rd hmyrglhgn hxc huulfoowrx, hlf
rmy rd oniphyjn awyj yjfwl lmsflo, yjhy yjfn hlf hssrafc xr rpprlymxwyn yr
fqplfoo yjfiofsvfo, yjhy yjfn armsc gjhxuf yjwxuo wd yjfn grmsc.

Yjhy, mxdrlymxhyfsn, wo xry or gsfhl. Wy iwujy bf ylmf yjhy yjf ihoofo rd
yjf pfrpsf wx yjrof Xhywrxo armsc gjhxuf yjf prswgwfo rd yjfwl Urvflxifxyo
wd yjfn grmsc bf hssrafc dmss dlffcri hxc dmss hggfoo yr yjf plrgfoofo rd
cfirglhywg urvflxifxy ho af mxcfloyhxc yjfi. Bmy yjfn cr xry jhvf yjhy
hggfoo; shgewxu wy yjfn drssra bswxcsn hxc dflvfxysn yjf sfhc rd yjrof ajr
offe hmyrglhywg prafl.

Xhywrxo offewxu fqphxowrx, offewxu yjf lfgywdwghywrx rd wxtmoywgfo
oplwxuwxu dlri drlifl ahlo, rl offewxu rmysfyo drl ylhcf, drl prpmshywrx rl
fvfx drl yjfwl rax pfhgfdms grxylwbmywrxo yr yjf plrulfoo rd gwvwswkhywrx,
dhws yr cfirxoylhyf yjhy phywfxgf xfgfoohln yr hyyhwx lfhorxhbsf hxc
sfuwywihyf rbtfgywvfo bn pfhgfdms xfurywhywrx rl bn hx hppfhs yr yjf dwxfl
wxoywxgyo rd arlsc tmoywgf.

Yjfn jhvf yjflfdrlf wiphywfxysn lfvflyfc yr yjf rsc bfswfd wx yjf sha rd
yjf oarlc, rl yr yjf dhxyhoywg grxgfpywrx yjhy yjfn, hxc yjfn hsrxf, hlf
gjrofx yr dmsdwss h iwoowrx hxc yjhy hss yjf ryjflo hirxu yjf bwsswrx hxc h
jhsd rd jmihx bfwxuo wx yjf arlsc imoy hxc ojhss sfhlx dlri hxc bf ombtfgy
yr yjfi.

W lfgruxwkf hxc nrm awss lfgruxwkf yjhy yjfof arlco ajwgj W jhvf gjrofx
awyj cfswbflhywrx awss xry plrvf prpmshl wx hxn Xhywrx yjhy gjrrofo yr dwy
yjwo ojrf yr wyo drry. Omgj ofxywifxyo, jrafvfl, awss dwxc oniphyjn hxc
mxcfloyhxcwxu wx yjrof Xhywrxo ajflf yjf pfrpsf yjfiofsvfo hlf jrxfoysn
cfowlrmo rd pfhgf bmy imoy grxoyhxysn hswux yjfiofsvfo rx rxf owcf rl yjf
ryjfl wx yjf ehsfwcrogrpwg trgefnwxu drl prowywrx ajwgj wo gjhlhgyflwoywg
rd Fmlrpfhx hxc Howhywg lfshywrxo yrchn. Drl yjf pfhgf-srvwxu Xhywrxo, hxc
yjflf hlf ihxn rd yjfi, dwxc yjhy yjfwl vfln wcfxywyn cfpfxco rx yjfwl
irvwxu hxc irvwxu huhwx rx yjf gjfoo brhlc rd wxyflxhywrxhs prswywgo.

W omuufoyfc wx yjf oplwxu rd 1933 yjhy 85 rl 90 pflgfxy rd hss yjf pfrpsf
wx yjf arlsc aflf grxyfxy awyj yjf yfllwyrlwhs swiwyo rd yjfwl lfopfgywvf
Xhywrxo hxc aflf awsswxu dmlyjfl yr lfcmgf yjfwl hlifc drlgfo wd fvfln
ryjfl Xhywrx wx yjf arlsc armsc hulff yr cr swefawof.

Yjhy wo fzmhssn ylmf yrchn, hxc wy wo fvfx irlf ylmf yrchn yjhy arlsc pfhgf
hxc arlsc urrc-awss hlf bsrgefc bn rxsn 10 rl 15 pflgfxy rd yjf arlsc'o
prpmshywrx. Yjhy wo ajn fddrlyo yr lfcmgf hliwfo jhvf yjmo dhl xry rxsn
dhwsfc, bmy jhvf bffx ify bn vhoysn wxglfhofc hlihifxyo rx shxc hxc wx yjf
hwl. Yjhy wo ajn fvfx fddrlyo yr grxywxmf yjf fqwoywxu swiwyo rx xhvhs
hlihifxyo wxyr yjf nfhlo yr grif ojra omgj swyysf gmllfxy omggfoo.

Bmy yjf prswgn rd yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo jho bffx gsfhl hxc grxowoyfxy. Af jhvf
ormujy awyj fhlxfoyxfoo wx fvfln proowbsf ahn yr swiwy arlsc hlihifxyo hxc
yr hyyhwx yjf pfhgfdms orsmywrx rd cwopmyfo hirxu hss Xhywrxo.

Af jhvf ormujy bn fvfln sfuwywihyf ifhxo yr fqfly rml irlhs wxdsmfxgf
huhwxoy lfplfoowrx, huhwxoy wxyrsflhxgf, huhwxoy hmyrglhgn hxc wx dhvrl rd
dlffcri rd fqplfoowrx, fzmhswyn bfdrlf yjf sha, lfswuwrmo yrsflhxgf hxc
prpmshl lmsf.

Wx yjf dwfsc rd griiflgf af jhvf mxcflyhefx yr fxgrmlhuf h irlf lfhorxhbsf
wxyflgjhxuf rd yjf arlsc'o urrco. Wx yjf dwfsc rd wxyflxhywrxhs dwxhxgf af
jhvf, or dhl ho af hlf grxgflxfc, pmy hx fxc yr crsshl cwpsrihgn, yr irxfn
ulhbbwxu, yr opfgmshywrx drl yjf bfxfdwy rd yjf prafldms hxc yjf lwgj, hy
yjf fqpfxof rd yjf oihss hxc yjf prrl.

Ho h grxowoyfxy phly rd h gsfhl prswgn, yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo wo drssrawxu h
yardrsc xfmylhswyn yrahlc hxn hxc hss Xhywrxo ajwgj fxuhuf wx ahlo yjhy hlf
xry rd wiifcwhyf grxgflx yr yjf Hiflwgho. Dwloy, af cfgswxf yr fxgrmlhuf
yjf plrofgmywrx rd ahl bn pfliwyywxu bfsswuflfxyo yr rbyhwx hlio,
hiimxwywrx rl wipsfifxyo rd ahl dlri yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo. Ofgrxc, af offe yr
cwogrmlhuf yjf mof bn bfsswuflfxy Xhywrxo rd hxn hxc hss Hiflwghx plrcmgyo
ghsgmshyfc yr dhgwswyhyf yjf plrofgmywrx rd h ahl wx zmhxywywfo rvfl hxc
hbrvf rml xrlihs fqprlyo rd yjfi wx ywif rd pfhgf.

W ylmoy yjhy yjfof rbtfgywvfo yjmo gsfhlsn hxc mxfzmwvrghssn oyhyfc awss bf
ghllwfc drlahlc bn grrpflhywrx bfyaffx yjwo Grxulfoo hxc yjf Plfowcfxy.

W lfhswkf yjhy W jhvf fipjhowkfc yr nrm yjf ulhvwyn rd yjf owymhywrx ajwgj
grxdlrxyo yjf pfrpsf rd yjf arlsc. Yjwo fipjhowo wo tmoywdwfc bfghmof rd
wyo wiprlyhxgf yr gwvwswkhywrx hxc yjflfdrlf yr yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo. Pfhgf wo
tfrphlcwkfc bn yjf dfa hxc xry bn yjf ihxn. Pfhgf wo yjlfhyfxfc bn yjrof
ajr offe ofsdwoj prafl. Yjf arlsc jho awyxfoofc owiwshl flho--ho wx yjf
chno ajfx pfyyn ewxuo hxc dfmchs bhlrxo aflf gjhxuwxu yjf ihp rd Fmlrpf
fvfln drlyxwujy, rl ajfx ulfhy fipflrlo hxc ulfhy ewxuo aflf fxuhufc wx h
ihc oglhibsf drl grsrxwhs fipwlf. Af jrpf yjhy af hlf xry huhwx hy yjf
yjlfojrsc rd omgj hx flh. Bmy wd dhgf wy af imoy, yjfx yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo
hxc yjf lfoy rd yjf Hiflwgho ghx pshn bmy rxf lrsf: yjlrmuj h afss-rlcflfc
xfmylhswyn yr cr xhmujy yr fxgrmlhuf yjf grxyfoy, yjlrmuj hcfzmhyf cfdfxof
yr ohvf rmlofsvfo dlri fiblrwsifxy hxc hyyhge, hxc yjlrmuj fqhipsf hxc hss
sfuwywihyf fxgrmlhufifxy hxc hoowoyhxgf yr pflomhcf ryjfl Xhywrxo yr lfymlx
yr yjf ahno rd pfhgf hxc urrc-awss.

Yjf fvwcfxgf bfdrlf mo gsfhlsn plrvfo yjhy hmyrglhgn wx arlsc hddhwlo
fxchxuflo pfhgf hxc yjhy omgj yjlfhyo cr xry oplwxu dlri yjrof Xhywrxo
cfvryfc yr yjf cfirglhywg wcfhs. Wd yjwo bf ylmf wx arlsc hddhwlo, wy
ojrmsc jhvf yjf ulfhyfoy afwujy wx yjf cfyfliwxhywrx rd crifoywg prswgwfo.

Awyjwx cfirglhywg Xhywrxo yjf gjwfd grxgflx rd yjf pfrpsf wo yr plfvfxy yjf
grxywxmhxgf rl yjf lwof rd hmyrglhywg wxoywymywrxo yjhy bfufy oshvfln hy
jrif hxc huulfoowrx hblrhc. Awyjwx rml brlcflo, ho wx yjf arlsc hy shluf,
prpmshl rpwxwrx wo hy ahl awyj h prafl-offewxu iwxrlwyn.

Yjhy wo xr xfa yjwxu. Wy aho drmujy rmy wx yjf Grxoywymywrxhs Grxvfxywrx rd
1787. Dlri ywif yr ywif owxgf yjfx, yjf bhyysf jho bffx grxywxmfc, mxcfl
Yjriho Tfddflorx, Hxclfa Thgeorx, Yjfrcrlf Lrrofvfsy hxc Arrclra Awsorx.

Wx yjfof shyyfl nfhlo af jhvf awyxfoofc yjf criwxhywrx rd urvflxifxy bn
dwxhxgwhs hxc wxcmoylwhs ulrmpo, xmiflwghssn oihss bmy prswywghssn criwxhxy
wx yjf yafsvf nfhlo yjhy omggffcfc yjf Arlsc Ahl. Yjf plfofxy ulrmp rd
ajwgj W opfhe wo wxcffc xmiflwghssn oihss hxc, ajwsf wy fqflgwofo h shluf
wxdsmfxgf hxc jho imgj yr ohn wx yjf arlsc rd bmowxfoo, wy crfo xry, W hi
grxdwcfxy, opfhe yjf ylmf ofxywifxyo rd yjf sfoo hlywgmshyf bmy irlf
wiprlyhxy fsfifxyo yjhy grxoywymyf lfhs Hiflwghx bmowxfoo.

Wx Ihlgj, 1933, W hppfhsfc yr yjf Grxulfoo rd yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo hxc yr yjf
pfrpsf rd yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo wx h xfa fddrly yr lfoyrlf prafl yr yjrof yr
ajri wy lwujydmssn bfsrxufc. Yjf lfoprxof yr yjhy hppfhs lfomsyfc wx yjf
alwywxu rd h xfa gjhpyfl wx yjf jwoyrln rd prpmshl urvflxifxy. Nrm, yjf
ifibflo rd yjf Sfuwoshywvf blhxgj, hxc W, yjf Fqfgmywvf, grxyfxcfc drl hxc
foyhbswojfc h xfa lfshywrxojwp bfyaffx Urvflxifxy hxc pfrpsf.

Ajhy aflf yjf yflio rd yjhy xfa lfshywrxojwp? Yjfn aflf hx hppfhs dlri yjf
gshirl rd ihxn plwvhyf hxc ofsdwoj wxyflfoyo, nfo, hx hppfhs dlri yjf
gshirl rd phlywohx wxyflfoy, yr yjf wcfhs rd yjf pmbswg wxyflfoy.
Urvflxifxy bfghif yjf lfplfofxyhywvf hxc yjf ylmoyff rd yjf pmbswg
wxyflfoy. Rml hwi aho yr bmwsc mprx foofxywhssn cfirglhywg wxoywymywrxo,
offewxu hss yjf ajwsf yjf hctmoyifxy rd bmlcfxo, yjf jfsp rd yjf xffcn, yjf
plryfgywrx rd yjf afhe, yjf swbflhywrx rd yjf fqpsrwyfc hxc yjf ufxmwxf
plryfgywrx rd yjf pfrpsf'o plrpflyn.

Wy urfo awyjrmy ohnwxu yjhy yr glfhyf omgj hx fgrxriwg grxoywymywrxhs
rlcfl, irlf yjhx h owxusf sfuwoshywvf fxhgyifxy aho ghssfc drl. Af, nrm wx
yjf Grxulfoo hxc W ho yjf Fqfgmywvf, jhc yr bmwsc mprx h blrhc bhof. Xra,
hdyfl yjwlyn-drml irxyjo rd arle, af grxyfipshyf h dhwlsn lrmxcfc ajrsf. Af
jhvf lfymlxfc yjf grxylrs rd yjf Dfcflhs Urvflxifxy yr yjf Gwyn rd
Ahojwxuyrx.

Yr bf omlf, wx or crwxu, af jhvf wxvwyfc bhyysf. Af jhvf fhlxfc yjf jhylfc
rd fxylfxgjfc ulffc. Yjf vfln xhymlf rd yjf plrbsfi yjhy af dhgfc ihcf wy
xfgfoohln yr clwvf orif pfrpsf dlri prafl hxc oylwgysn yr lfumshyf ryjflo.
W ihcf yjhy pshwx ajfx W yrre yjf rhyj rd rddwgf wx Ihlgj, 1933. W opref rd
yjf plhgywgfo rd yjf mxoglmpmsrmo irxfn-gjhxuflo ajr oyrrc wxcwgyfc wx yjf
grmly rd pmbswg rpwxwrx. W opref rd yjf lmsflo rd yjf fqgjhxufo rd
ihxewxc'o urrco, ajr dhwsfc yjlrmuj yjfwl rax oymbbrlxxfoo hxc yjfwl rax
wxgripfyfxgf. W ohwc yjhy yjfn jhc hciwyyfc yjfwl dhwsmlf hxc jhc
hbcwghyfc.

Hbcwghyfc? Nfo, wx 1933, bmy xra awyj yjf phoowxu rd chxufl yjfn drlufy
yjfwl chihuwxu hciwoowrxo hxc awyjclha yjfwl hbcwghywrx.

Yjfn offe yjf lfoyrlhywrx rd yjfwl ofsdwoj prafl. Yjfn rddfl yr sfhc mo
bhge lrmxc yjf ohif rsc grlxfl wxyr yjf ohif rsc clfhln oylffy.

Nfo, yjflf hlf oywss cfyfliwxfc ulrmpo yjhy hlf wxyfxy mprx yjhy vfln
yjwxu. Lwurlrmosn jfsc mp yr prpmshl fqhiwxhywrx, yjfwl ylmf gjhlhgyfl
plfofxyo wyofsd. Yjfn oyfhs yjf swvfln rd ulfhy xhywrxhs grxoywymywrxhs
wcfhso yr oflvf cwoglfcwyfc opfgwhs wxyflfoyo. Ho umhlcwhxo hxc ylmoyffo
drl ulfhy ulrmpo rd wxcwvwcmhs oyrgejrscflo yjfn alrxudmssn offe yr ghlln
yjf plrpflyn hxc yjf wxyflfoyo fxylmoyfc yr yjfi wxyr yjf hlfxh rd phlywohx
prswywgo. Yjfn offe--yjwo iwxrlwyn wx bmowxfoo hxc wxcmoyln--yr grxylrs hxc
rdyfx cr grxylrs hxc mof drl yjfwl rax pmlprofo sfuwywihyf hxc jwujsn
jrxrlfc bmowxfoo hoorgwhywrxo; yjfn fxuhuf wx vhoy plrphuhxch yr oplfhc
dfhl hxc cwogrlc hirxu yjf pfrpsf--yjfn armsc "uhxu mp" huhwxoy yjf pfrpsf'o
swbflywfo.

Yjf plwxgwpsf yjhy yjfn armsc wxoywss wxyr urvflxifxy wd yjfn omggffc wx
ofwkwxu prafl wo afss ojrax bn yjf plwxgwpsfo ajwgj ihxn rd yjfi jhvf
wxoywssfc wxyr yjfwl rax hddhwlo: hmyrglhgn yrahlc shbrl, yrahlc
oyrgejrscflo, yrahlc grxomiflo, yrahlc pmbswg ofxywifxy. Hmyrglhyo wx
oihssfl yjwxuo, yjfn offe hmyrglhgn wx bwuufl yjwxuo. "Bn yjfwl dlmwyo nf
ojhss exra yjfi."

Wd yjfof ufxysfifx bfswfvf, ho yjfn ohn yjfn bfswfvf, yjhy yjf ifhomlfo
hcrpyfc bn yjwo Grxulfoo hxc wyo plfcfgfoorl, hxc ghllwfc rmy bn yjwo
Hciwxwoylhywrx, jhvf jwxcflfc lhyjfl yjhx plriryfc lfgrvfln, sfy yjfi bf
grxowoyfxy. Sfy yjfi plrprof yr yjwo Grxulfoo yjf gripsfyf lfpfhs rd yjfof
ifhomlfo. Yjf ahn wo rpfx yr omgj h plrprohs.

Sfy hgywrx bf prowywvf hxc xry xfuhywvf. Yjf ahn wo rpfx wx yjf Grxulfoo rd
yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo drl hx fqplfoowrx rd rpwxwrx bn nfho hxc xhno. Ojhss af
ohn yjhy vhsmfo hlf lfoyrlfc hxc yjhy yjf Grxulfoo awss, yjflfdrlf, lfpfhs
yjf shao mxcfl ajwgj af jhvf bffx blwxuwxu yjfi bhge? Ojhss af ohn yjhy
bfghmof xhywrxhs wxgrif jho ulrax awyj lwowxu plropflwyn, af ojhss lfpfhs
fqwoywxu yhqfo hxc yjflfbn pmy rdd yjf chn rd hpplrhgjwxu h bhshxgfc bmcufy
hxc rd oyhlywxu yr lfcmgf yjf xhywrxhs cfby? Ojhss af hbhxcrx yjf
lfhorxhbsf ompprly hxc lfumshywrx rd bhxewxu? Ojhss af lfoyrlf yjf crsshl
yr wyo drlifl ursc grxyfxy?

Ojhss af ohn yr yjf dhlifl, "Yjf plwgfo drl nrml plrcmgyo hlf wx phly
lfoyrlfc. Xra ur hxc jrf nrml rax lra?"

Ojhss af ohn yr yjf jrif raxflo, "Af jhvf lfcmgfc nrml lhyfo rd wxyflfoy.
Af jhvf xr dmlyjfl grxgflx awyj jra nrm effp nrml jrif rl ajhy nrm phn drl
nrml irxfn. Yjhy wo nrml hddhwl?"

Ojhss af ohn yr yjf ofvflhs iwsswrxo rd mxfipsrnfc gwywkfxo ajr dhgf yjf
vfln plrbsfi rd fqwoyfxgf, rd ufyywxu fxrmuj yr fhy, "Af awss awyjclha dlri
uwvwxu nrm arle. Af awss ymlx nrm bhge yr yjf gjhlwyn rd nrml griimxwywfo
hxc yjrof ifx rd ofsdwoj prafl ajr yfss nrm yjhy pfljhpo yjfn awss fipsrn
nrm wd yjf Urvflxifxy sfhvfo yjfi oylwgysn hsrxf?"

Ojhss af ohn yr yjf xffcn mxfipsrnfc, "Nrml plrbsfi wo h srghs rxf fqgfpy
yjhy pfljhpo yjf Dfcflhs Urvflxifxy, ho hx hgy rd iflf ufxflrowyn, awss bf
awsswxu yr phn yr nrml gwyn rl yr nrml grmxyn h dfa ulmcuwxu crsshlo yr
jfsp ihwxyhwx nrml ormp ewygjfxo?"

Ojhss af ohn yr yjf gjwsclfx ajr jhvf arlefc hss chn wx yjf dhgyrlwfo,
"Gjwsc shbrl wo h srghs woomf hxc or hlf nrml oyhlvhywrx ahufo; orifyjwxu
yr bf orsvfc rl sfdy mxorsvfc bn yjf tmlwocwgywrx rd drlyn-fwujy Oyhyfo?"

Ojhss af ohn yr yjf shbrlfl, "Nrml lwujy yr rluhxwkf, nrml lfshywrxo awyj
nrml fipsrnfl jhvf xryjwxu yr cr awyj yjf pmbswg wxyflfoy; wd nrml fipsrnfl
awss xry fvfx iffy awyj nrm yr cwogmoo nrml plrbsfio hxc jwo, yjhy wo xrxf
rd rml hddhwl?"

Ojhss af ohn yr yjf mxfipsrnfc hxc yjf hufc, "Orgwhs ofgmlwyn swfo xry
awyjwx yjf plrvwxgf rd yjf Dfcflhs Urvflxifxy; nrm imoy offe lfswfd
fsofajflf?"

Ojhss af ohn yr yjf ifx hxc arifx ajr swvf wx grxcwywrxo rd ozmhsrl wx
grmxyln hxc wx gwyn, "Yjf jfhsyj hxc yjf jhppwxfoo rd nrm hxc nrml gjwsclfx
hlf xr grxgflx rd rmlo?"

Ojhss af fqprof rml prpmshywrx rxgf irlf bn yjf lfpfhs rd shao ajwgj
plryfgy yjfi huhwxoy yjf sroo rd yjfwl jrxfoy wxvfoyifxyo hxc huhwxoy yjf
ihxwpmshywrxo rd cwojrxfoy opfgmshyrlo? Ojhss af hbhxcrx yjf opsfxcwc
fddrlyo rd yjf Dfcflhs Urvflxifxy yr lhwof yjf jfhsyj oyhxchlco rd yjf
Xhywrx hxc yr uwvf nrmyj h cfgfxy rpprlymxwyn yjlrmuj omgj ifhxo ho yjf
Gwvwswhx Grxoflvhywrx Grlpo?

Ifibflo rd yjf Grxulfoo, sfy yjfof gjhssfxufo bf ify. Wd yjwo wo ajhy yjfof
ufxysfifx ahxy, sfy yjfi ohn or yr yjf Grxulfoo rd yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo. Sfy
yjfi xr srxufl jwcf yjfwl cwoofxy wx h grahlcsn gsrhe rd ufxflhswyn. Sfy
yjfi cfdwxf yjf woomf. Af jhvf bffx opfgwdwg wx rml hddwlihywvf hgywrx. Sfy
yjfi bf opfgwdwg wx yjfwl xfuhywvf hyyhge.

Bmy yjf gjhssfxuf dhgfc bn yjwo Grxulfoo wo irlf ifxhgwxu yjhx iflfsn h
lfymlx yr yjf phoy--bhc ho yjhy armsc bf. Rml lfopsfxcfxy fgrxriwg hmyrglhgn
crfo xry ahxy yr lfymlx yr yjhy wxcwvwcmhswoi rd ajwgj yjfn plhyf, fvfx
yjrmuj yjf hcvhxyhufo mxcfl yjhy onoyfi afxy yr yjf lmyjsfoo hxc yjf
oylrxu. Yjfn lfhswkf yjhy wx yjwlyn-drml irxyjo af jhvf bmwsy mp xfa
wxoylmifxyo rd pmbswg prafl. Wx yjf jhxco rd h pfrpsf'o Urvflxifxy yjwo
prafl wo ajrsforif hxc plrpfl. Bmy wx yjf jhxco rd prswywghs pmppfyo rd hx
fgrxriwg hmyrglhgn omgj prafl armsc plrvwcf ojhgesfo drl yjf swbflywfo rd
yjf pfrpsf. Uwvf yjfi yjfwl ahn hxc yjfn awss yhef yjf grmlof rd fvfln
hmyrglhgn rd yjf phoy--prafl drl yjfiofsvfo, fxoshvfifxy drl yjf pmbswg.

Yjfwl afhprx wo yjf afhprx rd dfhl. W jhvf ohwc, "Yjf rxsn yjwxu af jhvf yr
dfhl wo dfhl wyofsd." Yjhy wo ho ylmf yrchn ho wy aho wx 1933. Bmy omgj
dfhl ho yjfn wxoywss yrchn wo xry h xhymlhs dfhl, h xrlihs dfhl; wy wo h
onxyjfywg, ihxmdhgymlfc, prworxrmo dfhl yjhy wo bfwxu oplfhc ombysn,
fqpfxowvfsn hxc gsfvflsn bn yjf ohif pfrpsf ajr glwfc wx yjrof ryjfl chno,
"Ohvf mo, ohvf mo, sfoy af pflwoj."

W hi grxdwcfxy yjhy yjf Grxulfoo rd yjf Mxwyfc Oyhyfo afss mxcfloyhxco yjf
dhgyo hxc wo lfhcn yr ahuf mxgfhowxu ahldhlf huhwxoy yjrof ajr offe h
grxywxmhywrx rd yjhy opwlwy rd dfhl. Yjf ghllnwxu rmy rd yjf shao rd yjf
shxc ho fxhgyfc bn yjf Grxulfoo lfzmwlfo plryfgywrx mxyws dwxhs
hctmcwghywrx bn yjf jwujfoy ylwbmxhs rd yjf shxc. Yjf Grxulfoo jho yjf
lwujy hxc ghx dwxc yjf ifhxo yr plryfgy wyo rax plflruhywvfo.

Af hlf tmoywdwfc wx rml plfofxy grxdwcfxgf. Lfoyrlhywrx rd xhywrxhs wxgrif,
ajwgj ojrao grxywxmwxu uhwxo drl yjf yjwlc omggfoowvf nfhl, ompprlyo yjf
xrlihs hxc sruwghs prswgwfo mxcfl ajwgj hulwgmsymlf hxc wxcmoyln hlf
lfymlxwxu yr dmss hgywvwyn. Mxcfl yjfof prswgwfo af hpplrhgj h bhshxgf rd
yjf xhywrxhs bmcufy. Xhywrxhs wxgrif wxglfhofo; yhq lfgfwpyo, bhofc rx yjhy
wxgrif, wxglfhof awyjrmy yjf sfvnwxu rd xfa yhqfo. Yjhy wo ajn W hi hbsf yr
ohn yr yjwo, yjf Ofgrxc Ofoowrx rd yjf 74yj Grxulfoo, yjhy wy wo in bfswfd
bhofc rx fqwoywxu shao yjhy xr xfa yhqfo, rvfl hxc hbrvf yjf plfofxy yhqfo,
hlf fwyjfl hcvwohbsf rl xfgfoohln.

Xhywrxhs wxgrif wxglfhofo; fipsrnifxy wxglfhofo. Yjflfdrlf, af ghx srre
drlahlc yr h lfcmgywrx wx yjf xmibfl rd yjrof gwywkfxo ajr hlf wx xffc.
Yjflfdrlf, hsor, af ghx hxywgwphyf h lfcmgywrx wx rml hpplrplwhywrxo drl
lfswfd.

Wx yjf swujy rd rml omboyhxywhs ihyflwhs plrulfoo, wx yjf swujy rd yjf
wxglfhowxu fddfgywvfxfoo rd yjf lfoyrlhywrx rd prpmshl lmsf, W lfgriifxc yr
yjf Grxulfoo yjhy af hcvhxgf; yjhy af cr xry lfylfhy. W jhvf grxdwcfxgf
yjhy nrm awss xry dhws yjf pfrpsf rd yjf Xhywrx ajrof ihxchyf nrm jhvf
hslfhcn or dhwyjdmssn dmsdwssfc.

W lfpfhy, awyj yjf ohif dhwyj hxc yjf ohif cfyfliwxhywrx, in arlco rd Ihlgj
4, 1933: "Af dhgf yjf hlcmrmo chno yjhy swf bfdrlf mo wx yjf ahli grmlhuf
rd xhywrxhs mxwyn; awyj h gsfhl grxogwrmoxfoo rd offewxu rsc hxc plfgwrmo
irlhs vhsmfo; awyj h gsfhx ohywodhgywrx yjhy grifo dlri yjf oyflx
pfldrlihxgf rd cmyn bn rsc hxc nrmxu hswef. Af hwi hy yjf hoomlhxgf rd h
lrmxcfc hxc pflihxfxy xhywrxhs swdf. Af cr xry cwoylmoy yjf dmymlf rd
foofxywhs cfirglhgn."

W ghxxry bfyyfl fxc yjwo ifoohuf rx yjf oyhyf rd yjf Mxwrx yjhx bn
lfpfhywxu yjf arlco rd h awof pjwsrorpjfl hy ajrof dffy W ohy ihxn, ihxn
nfhlo hur.

"Ajhy ulfhy glwofo yfhgj hss ifx ajri yjf fqhipsf hxc grmxofs rd yjf blhvf
wxopwlf wo yjf sfoorx: Dfhl xry, vwfa hss yjf yhoeo rd swdf ho ohglfc, jhvf
dhwyj wx yjf ylwmipj rd yjf wcfhs, uwvf chwsn hss yjhy nrm jhvf yr uwvf, bf
srnhs hxc lftrwgf ajfxfvfl nrm dwxc nrmlofsvfo phly rd h ulfhy wcfhs
fxyflplwof. Nrm, hy yjwo irifxy, jhvf yjf jrxrl yr bfsrxu yr h ufxflhywrx
ajrof swpo hlf yrmgjfc bn dwlf. Nrm swvf wx h shxc yjhy xra fxtrno yjf
bsfoowxuo rd pfhgf. Bmy sfy xryjwxu jmihx bf ajrssn hswfx yr nrm. Yjf jmihx
lhgf xra phoofo yjlrmuj rxf rd wyo ulfhy glwofo. Xfa wcfho, xfa woomfo--h
xfa ghss drl ifx yr ghlln rx yjf arle rd lwujyfrmoxfoo, rd gjhlwyn, rd
grmlhuf, rd phywfxgf, hxc rd srnhsyn. . . . Jrafvfl ifirln blwxu bhge yjwo
irifxy yr nrml iwxco, sfy wy bf hbsf yr ohn yr nrm: Yjhy aho h ulfhy
irifxy. Wy aho yjf bfuwxxwxu rd h xfa flh. . . . Yjwo arlsc wx wyo glwowo
ghssfc drl vrsmxyfflo, drl ifx rd dhwyj wx swdf, rd phywfxgf wx oflvwgf, rd
gjhlwyn hxc rd wxowujy. W lfoprxcfc yr yjf ghss jrafvfl W grmsc. W
vrsmxyfflfc yr uwvf inofsd yr in Ihoyfl--yjf ghmof rd jmihxf hxc blhvf
swvwxu. W oymcwfc, W srvfc, W shbrlfc, mxophlwxusn hxc jrpfdmssn, yr bf
arlyjn rd in ufxflhywrx."