Py. Dvco Wyoavtogm, Py. Awoneoy, Popsoya kf mbo Aognmo ngt mbo Ckgqyoaa:

Vg Yowkymvgq kg mbo amnmo kf mbo gnmvkg, V bndo foum vm gocoaanyi kg
wyodvkla kccnavkga mk ntdvao mbo Ckgqyoaa kf tvamlysngco nsyknt ngt kf mbo
goot kf wlmmvgq kly kzg bklao vg kytoy vg mbo fnco kf amkyp avqgnua fykp
ncykaa mbo aona. Na mbva Aodogmi-avxmb Ckgqyoaa kwoga mboyo va goot fky
flymboy znygvgq.

N zny zbvcb mbyonmogot mk ogdoukw mbo zkyut vg funpoa bna soog ndoymot; slm
vm bna sockpo vgcyonavgqui cuony mbnm zkyut wonco va gkm naalyot.

Nuu nsklm la ynqo lgtocunyot znya--pvuvmnyi ngt ockgkpvc. Nuu nsklm la qykz
pkyo tontui nypnpogma--pvuvmnyi ngt ockgkpvc. Nuu nsklm la nyo mbyonma kf
goz nqqyoaavkg pvuvmnyi ngt ockgkpvc.

Amkypa fykp nsyknt tvyocmui cbnuuogqo mbyoo vgamvmlmvkga vgtvawogansuo mk
Npoyvcnga, gkz na nuznia. Mbo fvyam va youvqvkg. Vm va mbo aklyco kf mbo
kmboy mzk--topkcynci ngt vgmoygnmvkgnu qkkt fnvmb.

Youvqvkg, si moncbvgq png bva younmvkgabvw mk Qkt, qvdoa mbo vgtvdvtlnu n
aogao kf bva kzg tvqgvmi ngt moncboa bvp mk yoawocm bvpaouf si yoawocmvgq
bva govqbskya.

Topkcynci, mbo wyncmvco kf aouf-qkdoygpogm, va n ckdogngm npkgq fyoo pog mk
yoawocm mbo yvqbma ngt uvsoymvoa kf mbovy fouukza.

Vgmoygnmvkgnu qkkt fnvmb, n avamoy kf topkcynci, awyvgqa fykp mbo zvuu kf
cvdvuvrot gnmvkga kf pog mk yoawocm mbo yvqbma ngt uvsoymvoa kf kmboy
gnmvkga kf pog.

Vg n pktoyg cvdvuvrnmvkg, nuu mbyoo--youvqvkg, topkcynci ngt vgmoygnmvkgnu
qkkt fnvmb--ckpwuopogm ngt alwwkym oncb kmboy.

Zboyo fyootkp kf youvqvkg bna soog nmmnceot, mbo nmmnce bna ckpo fykp
aklycoa kwwkaot mk topkcynci. Zboyo topkcynci bna soog kdoymbykzg, mbo
awvyvm kf fyoo zkyabvw bna tvanwwonyot. Ngt zboyo youvqvkg ngt topkcynci
bndo dngvabot, qkkt fnvmb ngt yonakg vg vgmoygnmvkgnu nffnvya bndo qvdog
zni mk amyvtogm npsvmvkg ngt sylmo fkyco.

Ng kytoyvgq kf akcvomi zbvcb youoqnmoa youvqvkg, topkcynci ngt qkkt fnvmb
npkgq gnmvkga mk mbo snceqyklgt cng fvgt gk wunco zvmbvg vm fky mbo vtonua
kf mbo Wyvgco kf Wonco. Mbo Lgvmot Amnmoa yojocma alcb ng kytoyvgq, ngt
yomnvga vma ngcvogm fnvmb.

Mboyo ckpoa n mvpo vg mbo nffnvya kf pog zbog mboi plam wyownyo mk tofogt,
gkm mbovy bkpoa nukgo, slm mbo mogoma kf fnvmb ngt blpngvmi kg zbvcb mbovy
cblycboa, mbovy qkdoygpogma ngt mbovy doyi cvdvuvrnmvkg nyo fklgtot. Mbo
tofogao kf youvqvkg, kf topkcynci ngt kf qkkt fnvmb npkgq gnmvkga va nuu
mbo anpo fvqbm. Mk ando kgo zo plam gkz pneo lw kly pvgta mk ando nuu.

Zo egkz zbnm pvqbm bnwwog mk la kf mbo Lgvmot Amnmoa vf mbo goz
wbvukakwbvoa kf fkyco zoyo mk ogckpwnaa mbo kmboy ckgmvgogma ngt vgdnto kly
kzg. Zo, gk pkyo mbng kmboy gnmvkga, cng nffkyt mk so alyyklgtot si mbo
ogopvoa kf kly fnvmb ngt kly blpngvmi. Fkymlgnmo vm va, mboyofkyo, mbnm vg
mbva Zoamoyg Bopvawboyo zo bndo, lgtoy n ckppkg vtonu kf topkcynmvc
qkdoygpogm, n yvcb tvdoyavmi kf yoaklycoa ngt kf wokwuoa flgcmvkgvgq
mkqomboy vg plmlnu yoawocm ngt wonco.

Mbnm Bopvawboyo, mbnm wonco, ngt mbnm vtonu zo wykwkao mk tk kly abnyo vg
wykmocmvgq nqnvgam amkypa fykp ngi hlnymoy. Kly wokwuo ngt kly yoaklycoa
nyo wuotqot mk aoclyo mbnm wykmocmvkg. Fykp mbnm tomoypvgnmvkg gk Npoyvcng
fuvgcboa.

Mbva si gk ponga vpwuvoa mbnm mbo Npoyvcng Yowlsuvca tvanaakcvnmo
mbopaoudoa fykp mbo gnmvkga kf kmboy ckgmvgogma. Vm tkoa gkm pong mbo
Npoyvcna nqnvgam mbo yoam kf mbo zkyut. Zo na kgo kf mbo Yowlsuvca
yovmoynmo kly zvuuvgqgoaa mk bouw mbo cnlao kf zkyut wonco. Zo amngt kg kly
bvamkyvc kffoy mk mneo cklgaou zvmb nuu kmboy gnmvkga kf mbo zkyut mk mbo
ogt mbnm nqqyoaavkg npkgq mbop so moypvgnmot, mbnm mbo ynco kf nypnpogma
conao ngt mbnm ckppoyco so yogozot.

Slm mbo zkyut bna qykzg ak apnuu ngt zonwkga kf nmmnce ak azvfm mbnm gk
gnmvkg cng so anfo vg vma zvuu mk wonco ak ukgq na ngi kmboy wkzoyflu
gnmvkg yoflaoa mk aommuo vma qyvodngcoa nm mbo cklgcvu mnsuo.

Fky vf ngi qkdoygpogm syvamuvgq zvmb vpwuopogma kf zny vgavama kg wkuvcvoa
kf fkyco, zonwkga kf tofogao qvdo mbo kgui anfomi.

Vg kly fkyovqg younmvkga zo bndo uonygot fykp mbo wnam zbnm gkm mk tk. Fykp
goz znya zo bndo uonygot zbnm zo plam tk.

Zo bndo uonygot mbnm offocmvdo mvpvgq kf tofogao, ngt mbo tvamngm wkvgma
fykp zbvcb nmmncea pni so unlgcbot nyo ckpwuomoui tvffoyogm fykp zbnm mboi
zoyo mzogmi ionya nqk.

Zo bndo uonygot mbnm alydvdnu cnggkm so qlnyngmoot si nypvgq nfmoy mbo
nmmnce soqvga--fky mboyo va goz yngqo ngt awoot mk kffogao.

Zo bndo uonygot mbnm ukgq sofkyo ngi kdoym pvuvmnyi ncm, nqqyoaavkg soqvga
zvmb wyouvpvgnyvoa kf wykwnqngtn, alsavtvrot wogomynmvkg, mbo ukkaogvgq kf
mvoa kf qkkt zvuu, mbo amvyyvgq kf wyojltvco ngt mbo vgcvmopogm mk
tvalgvkg.

Zo bndo uonygot mbnm Qkt-fonyvgq topkcyncvoa kf mbo zkyut zbvcb ksaoydo mbo
angcmvmi kf myonmvoa ngt qkkt fnvmb vg mbovy tonuvgqa zvmb kmboy gnmvkga
cnggkm anfoui so vgtvffoyogm mk vgmoygnmvkgnu unzuoaagoaa ngizboyo. Mboi
cnggkm fkyodoy uom wnaa, zvmbklm offocmvdo wykmoam, ncma kf nqqyoaavkg
nqnvgam avamoy gnmvkga--ncma zbvcb nlmkpnmvcnuui lgtoypvgo nuu kf la.

Ksdvklaui mboi plam wykcoot nukgq wyncmvcnu, woncoflu uvgoa. Slm mbo poyo
fncm mbnm zo yvqbmui tocuvgo mk vgmoydogo zvmb nypa mk wyodogm ncma kf
nqqyoaavkg tkoa gkm pong mbnm zo plam ncm na vf mboyo zoyo gk nqqyoaavkg nm
nuu. Zkyta pni so flmvuo, slm zny va gkm mbo kgui ponga kf ckppngtvgq n
tocogm yoawocm fky mbo kwvgvkga kf pngevgt. Mboyo nyo pngi pombkta abkym kf
zny, slm amykgqoy ngt pkyo offocmvdo mbng poyo zkyta, kf syvgqvgq bkpo mk
nqqyoaaky qkdoygpogma mbo nqqyoqnmo aogmvpogma kf kly kzg wokwuo.

Nm mbo doyi uonam, zo cng ngt abklut ndkvt ngi ncmvkg, ky ngi unce kf
ncmvkg, zbvcb zvuu ogcklynqo, naavam ky slvut lw ng nqqyoaaky. Zo bndo
uonygot mbnm zbog zo touvsoynmoui myi mk uoqvaunmo golmynuvmi, kly
golmynuvmi unza pni kwoynmo lgodogui ngt lgfnvyui--pni ncmlnuui qvdo nvt mk
ng nqqyoaaky ngt togi vm mk mbo dvcmvp. Mbo vgamvgcm kf aouf-wyoaoydnmvkg
abklut znyg la mbnm zo klqbm gkm mk uom mbnm bnwwog ngi pkyo.

Ngt zo bndo uonygot akpombvgq ouao--mbo kut, kut uoaakg mbnm wyksnsvuvmi kf
nmmnce va pvqbmvui tocyonaot si mbo naalyngco kf ng odoy yonti tofogao.
Avgco 1931, gonyui ovqbm ionya nqk, zkyut odogma kf mblgtoykla vpwkym bndo
pkdot zvmb uvqbmgvgq awoot. Tlyvgq mboao ovqbm ionya pngi kf kly wokwuo
culgq mk mbo bkwo mbnm mbo vggnmo tocogci kf pngevgt zklut wykmocm mbo
lgwyownyot zbk abkzot mbovy vggnmo mylam vg pngevgt. Mktni zo nyo nuu
zvaoy--ngt anttoy.

Lgtoy pktoyg ckgtvmvkga zbnm zo pong si "ntohlnmo tofogao"--n wkuvci
alsacyvsot mk si nuu kf la--plam so tvdvtot vgmk mbyoo ouopogma. Fvyam, zo
plam bndo nypot fkycoa ngt tofogaoa amykgq ogklqb mk znyt kff alttog nmmnce
nqnvgam amynmoqvc wkavmvkga ngt eoi fncvuvmvoa oaaogmvnu mk ogalyo
alamnvgot yoavamngco ngt lumvpnmo dvcmkyi. Aockgtui, zo plam bndo mbo
kyqngvrnmvkg ngt ukcnmvkg kf mbkao eoi fncvuvmvoa ak mbnm mboi pni so
vppotvnmoui lmvuvrot ngt ynwvtui oxwngtot mk poom nuu goota zvmbklm tngqoy
kf aoyvkla vgmoyylwmvkg si ogopi nmmnce.

Vg mbo cklyao kf n foz tnia V abnuu aogt ikl n awocvnu poaanqo pnevgq
yockppogtnmvkga fky mbkao mzk oaaogmvnua kf tofogao nqnvgam tngqoy zbvcb zo
cnggkm anfoui naalpo zvuu gkm ckpo.

Vf mboao fvyam mzk oaaogmvnua nyo yonakgnsui wykdvtot fky, zo plam so nsuo
ckgfvtogmui mk vgdkeo mbo mbvyt ouopogm, mbo lgtoyuivgq amyogqmb kf
cvmvrogabvw--mbo aouf-ckgfvtogco, mbo nsvuvmi, mbo vpnqvgnmvkg ngt mbo
todkmvkg mbnm qvdo mbo amnivgq wkzoy mk aoo mbvgqa mbyklqb.

N amykgq ngt lgvmot gnmvkg pni so toamykiot vf vm va lgwyownyot nqnvgam
alttog nmmnce. Slm odog n gnmvkg zouu nypot ngt zouu kyqngvrot fykp n
amyvcmui pvuvmnyi amngtwkvgm pni, nfmoy n woyvkt kf mvpo, poom tofonm vf vm
va lggoydot si aouf-tvamylam, ogtngqoyot si cunaa wyojltvco, si tvaaogavkg
somzoog cnwvmnu ngt unsky, si fnuao ockgkpi ngt si kmboy lgakudot akcvnu
wyksuopa nm bkpo.

Vg poomvgq mbo myklsuoa kf mbo zkyut zo plam poom mbop na kgo wokwuo--zvmb n
lgvmi skyg kf mbo fncm mbnm fky qogoynmvkga mbkao zbk bndo ckpo mk kly
abkyoa, yowyoaogmvgq pngi evgtyota ngt mkgqloa, bndo soog zoutot si ckppkg
kwwkymlgvmi vgmk n lgvmot wnmyvkmvap. Vf ngkmboy fkyp kf qkdoygpogm cng
wyoaogm n lgvmot fykgm vg vma nmmnce kg n topkcynci, mbo nmmnce plam ngt
zvuu so pom si n lgvmot topkcynci. Alcb n topkcynci cng ngt plam oxvam vg
mbo Lgvmot Amnmoa.

N tvcmnmkyabvw pni ckppngt mbo fluu amyogqmb kf n yoqvpogmot gnmvkg. Slm
mbo lgvmot amyogqmb kf n topkcynmvc gnmvkg cng so plamoyot kgui zbog vma
wokwuo, otlcnmot si pktoyg amngtnyta mk egkz zbnm va qkvgq kg ngt zboyo
mboi nyo qkvgq, bndo ckgdvcmvkg mbnm mboi nyo yocovdvgq na unyqo n abnyo kf
kwwkymlgvmi fky todoukwpogm, na unyqo n abnyo kf pnmoyvnu alccoaa ngt kf
blpng tvqgvmi, na mboi bndo n yvqbm mk yocovdo.

Kly gnmvkg'a wykqynp kf akcvnu ngt ockgkpvc yofkyp va mboyofkyo n wnym kf
tofogao, na snavc na nypnpogma mbopaoudoa.

Nqnvgam mbo snceqyklgt kf odogma vg Olykwo, vg Nfyvcn ngt vg Navn tlyvgq
mboao yocogm ionya, mbo wnmmoyg kf zbnm zo bndo ncckpwuvabot avgco 1933
nwwonya vg odog cuonyoy fkcla.

Fky mbo fvyam mvpo zo bndo pkdot lwkg toow-aonmot wyksuopa nffocmvgq kly
gnmvkgnu amyogqmb ngt bndo fkyqot gnmvkgnu vgamylpogma ntohlnmo mk poom
mbop.

Ckgavtoy zbnm mbo aoopvgqui wvocoponu amylqquoa kf mboao avx ionya ntt lw
mk vg moypa kf yonuvamvc gnmvkgnu wyownyotgoaa.

Zo nyo ckgaoydvgq ngt todoukwvgq gnmlynu yoaklycoa--ungt, znmoy wkzoy,
fkyoama.

Zo nyo myivgq mk wykdvto gocoaanyi fkkt, aboumoy ngt potvcnu cnyo fky mbo
bonumb kf kly wkwlunmvkg.

Zo nyo wlmmvgq nqyvclumlyo--kly aiamop kf fkkt ngt fvsyo alwwui--kg n
aklgtoy snava.

Zo nyo amyogqmbogvgq mbo zoneoam awkm vg kly aiamop kf vgtlamyvnu alwwui--
vma ukgq apklutoyvgq unsky tvffvclumvoa.

Zo bndo cuongot lw kly cyotvm aiamop ak mbnm towkavmky ngt vgdoamky nuveo
pni pkyo yontvui ngt zvuuvgqui pneo mbovy cnwvmnu ndnvunsuo fky wonco ky
zny.

Zo nyo qvdvgq mk kly iklmb goz kwwkymlgvmvoa fky zkye ngt otlcnmvkg.

Zo bndo alamnvgot mbo pkynuo kf nuu mbo wkwlunmvkg si mbo tvqgvfvot
yockqgvmvkg kf kly ksuvqnmvkga mk mbo nqot, mbo bouwuoaa ngt mbo gooti.

Nskdo nuu, zo bndo pnto mbo Npoyvcng wokwuo ckgacvkla kf mbovy
vgmoyyounmvkgabvw ngt mbovy vgmoytowogtogco. Mboi aogao n ckppkg toamvgi
ngt n ckppkg goot kf oncb kmboy. Tvffoyogcoa kf kcclwnmvkg, qokqynwbi, ynco
ngt youvqvkg gk ukgqoy ksaclyo mbo gnmvkg'a flgtnpogmnu lgvmi vg mbklqbm
ngt vg ncmvkg.

Zo bndo kly tvffvclumvoa, mylo--slm zo nyo n zvaoy ngt n mklqboy gnmvkg mbng
zo zoyo vg 1929, ky vg 1932.

Godoy bndo mboyo soog avx ionya kf alcb fny-fulgq vgmoygnu wyownyotgoaa vg
kly bvamkyi. Ngt mbva bna soog tkgo zvmbklm ngi tvcmnmky'a wkzoy mk
ckppngt, zvmbklm ckgacyvwmvkg kf unsky ky ckgfvacnmvkg kf cnwvmnu, zvmbklm
ckgcogmynmvkg cnpwa ngt zvmbklm n acynmcb kg fyootkp kf awoocb, fyootkp kf
mbo wyoaa ky mbo yoam kf mbo Svuu kf Yvqbma.

Zo aoo mbvgqa gkz mbnm zo cklut gkm aoo nukgq mbo zni. Mbo mkkua kf
qkdoygpogm zbvcb zo bnt vg 1933 nyo klmpktot. Zo bndo bnt mk fkyqo goz
mkkua fky n goz ykuo kf qkdoygpogm kwoynmvgq vg n topkcynci--n ykuo kf goz
yoawkgavsvuvmi fky goz goota ngt vgcyonaot yoawkgavsvuvmi fky kut goota,
ukgq goquocmot.

Akpo kf mboao mkkua bnt mk so yklqbui abnwot ngt amvuu goot akpo pncbvgvgq
tkzg. Pngi kf mbkao zbk fklqbm svmmoyui nqnvgam mbo fkyqvgq kf mboao goz
mkkua zouckpo mbovy lao mktni. Mbo Npoyvcng wokwuo, na n zbkuo, bndo
nccowmot mbop. Mbo Gnmvkg ukkea mk mbo Ckgqyoaa mk vpwykdo mbo goz
pncbvgoyi zbvcb zo bndo woypngogmui vgamnuuot, wykdvtot mbnm vg mbo wykcoaa
mbo akcvnu laoflugoaa kf mbo pncbvgoyi va gkm toamykiot ky vpwnvyot.

Nuu kf la nqyoo mbnm zo abklut avpwuvfi ngt vpwykdo unza vf oxwoyvogco ngt
kwoynmvkg cuonyui topkgamynmo mbo goot. Fky vgamngco, nuu kf la zngm sommoy
wykdvavkg fky kly kutoy wokwuo lgtoy kly akcvnu aoclyvmi uoqvaunmvkg. Fky
mbo potvcnuui gooti zo plam wykdvto sommoy cnyo.

Pkam kf la nqyoo mbnm fky mbo aneo kf opwukioy ngt opwukioo nuveo zo plam
fvgt znia mk ogt fncmvkgnu unsky amyvfo ngt opwukioy-opwukioo tvawlmoa.

Pkam kf la yockqgvro mbnm gkgo kf mboao mkkua cng so wlm mk pnxvplp
offocmvdogoaa lguoaa mbo oxoclmvdo wykcoaaoa kf qkdoygpogm nyo
yodnpwot--yokyqngvrot, vf ikl zvuu--vgmk pkyo offocmvdo ckpsvgnmvkg. Ngt
odog nfmoy alcb yokyqngvrnmvkg vm zvuu mneo mvpo mk todoukw ntpvgvamynmvdo
woyakggou ngt oxwoyvogco vg kytoy mk lao kly goz mkkua zvmb n pvgvplp kf
pvamneoa. Mbo Ckgqyoaa, kf cklyao, goota gk flymboy vgfkypnmvkg kg mbva.

Zvmb mbva oxcowmvkg kf uoqvaunmvkg mk wykdvto qyonmoy qkdoygpogm
offvcvogci, ngt zvmb mbo oxcowmvkg kf uoqvaunmvkg mk npouvkynmo kly
ynvuyknt ngt kmboy myngawkymnmvkg wyksuopa, mbo wnam mbyoo Ckgqyoaaoa bndo
pom vg wnym ky vg zbkuo mbo wyoaavgq goota kf mbo goz kytoy kf mbvgqa.

Zo bndo gkz wnaaot mbo woyvkt kf vgmoygnu ckgfuvcm vg mbo unlgcbvgq kf kly
wykqynp kf akcvnu yofkyp. Kly fluu ogoyqvoa pni gkz so youonaot mk
vgdvqkynmo mbo wykcoaaoa kf yockdoyi vg kytoy mk wyoaoydo kly yofkypa, ngt
mk qvdo odoyi png ngt zkpng zbk zngma mk zkye n yonu jks nm n uvdvgq znqo.

Slm mvpo va kf wnynpklgm vpwkymngco. Mbo tontuvgo kf tngqoy fykp zvmbvg ngt
fykp zvmbklm va gkm zvmbvg kly ckgmyku. Mbo bkly-qunaa pni so vg mbo bngta
kf kmboy gnmvkga. Kly kzg bkly-qunaa mouua la mbnm zo nyo kff kg n ynco mk
pneo topkcynci zkye, ak mbnm zo pni so offvcvogm vg wonco ngt mboyofkyo
aoclyo vg gnmvkgnu tofogao.

Mbva mvpo ouopogm fkycoa la mk amvuu qyonmoy offkyma mk nmmnvg mbo fluu
opwukipogm kf kly unsky ngt kly cnwvmnu.

Mbo fvyam tlmi kf kly amnmoapngabvw va mk syvgq cnwvmnu ngt png-wkzoy
mkqomboy.

Tvcmnmkyabvwa tk mbva si pnvg fkyco. Si lavgq pnvg fkyco mboi nwwnyogmui
alccoot nm vm--fky mbo pkpogm. Bkzodoy zo nsbky mbovy pombkta, zo nyo
ckpwouuot mk ntpvm mbnm mboi bndo ksmnvgot alsamngmvnu lmvuvrnmvkg kf nuu
mbovy pnmoyvnu ngt blpng yoaklycoa. Uveo vm ky gkm, mboi bndo akudot, fky n
mvpo nm uonam, mbo wyksuop kf vtuo pog ngt vtuo cnwvmnu. Cng zo ckpwomo
zvmb mbop si skutui aooevgq pombkta kf wlmmvgq vtuo pog ngt vtuo cnwvmnu
mkqomboy ngt, nm mbo anpo mvpo, yopnvg zvmbvg kly Npoyvcng zni kf uvfo,
zvmbvg mbo Svuu kf Yvqbma, ngt zvmbvg mbo sklgta kf zbnm va, fykp kly wkvgm
kf dvoz, cvdvuvrnmvkg vmaouf?

Zo alffoy fykp n qyonm lgopwukipogm kf cnwvmnu. Pngi wokwuo bndo mbo vton
mbnm na n gnmvkg zo nyo kdoyslytogot zvmb tosm ngt nyo awogtvgq pkyo mbng
zo cng nffkyt. Mbnm va gkm ak. Toawvmo kly Fotoynu Qkdoygpogm oxwogtvmlyoa
mbo ogmvyo tosm kf kly gnmvkgnu ockgkpvc aiamop, wlsuvc ngt wyvdnmo
mkqomboy, va gk unyqoy mktni mbng vm zna vg 1929, ngt mbo vgmoyoam mboyokg
va fny uoaa mbng vm zna vg 1929.

Mbo ksjocm va mk wlm cnwvmnu--wyvdnmo na zouu na wlsuvc--mk zkye.

Zo zngm mk qom ogklqb cnwvmnu ngt unsky nm zkye mk qvdo la n mkmnu mlygkdoy
kf slavgoaa, n mkmnu gnmvkgnu vgckpo, kf nm uonam ovqbmi svuuvkg tkuunya n
iony. Nm mbnm fvqlyo zo abnuu bndo n alsamngmvnu yotlcmvkg kf lgopwukipogm;
ngt mbo Fotoynu Yodogloa zvuu so alffvcvogm mk snungco mbo clyyogm uodou kf
cnab oxwogtvmlyoa kg mbo snava kf mbo oxvamvgq mnx amylcmlyo. Mbnm fvqlyo
cng so nmmnvgot, zkyevgq zvmbvg mbo fynpozkye kf kly myntvmvkgnu wykfvm
aiamop.

Mbo fncmkya vg nmmnvgvgq ngt pnvgmnvgvgq mbnm npklgm kf gnmvkgnu vgckpo nyo
pngi ngt ckpwuvcnmot.

Mboi vgculto pkyo zvtoawyont lgtoyamngtvgq npkgq slavgoaa pog kf pngi
cbngqoa zbvcb zkyut ckgtvmvkga ngt mocbgkukqvcnu vpwykdopogma bndo syklqbm
mk kly ockgkpi kdoy mbo unam mzogmi ionya--cbngqoa vg mbo vgmoyyounmvkgabvw
kf wyvco ngt dkulpo ngt opwukipogm, fky oxnpwuo--cbngqoa kf mbo evgt vg
zbvcb slavgoaa pog nyo gkz otlcnmvgq mbopaoudoa mbyklqb oxcouuogm
kwwkymlgvmvoa uveo mbo ak-cnuuot "pkgkwkui vgdoamvqnmvkg."

Mboi vgculto n woyfocmvgq kf kly fnyp wykqynp mk wykmocm fnypoya' vgckpo
ngt ckgalpoya' wlycbnavgq wkzoy fykp numoygnmo yvaea kf cykw qulma ngt cykw
abkymnqoa.

Mboi vgculto zbkuobonymot nccowmngco kf goz amngtnyta kf bkgoami vg kly
fvgngcvnu pnyeoma.

Mboi vgculto yockgcvuopogm kf ogkypkla, ngmnqkgvamvc vgmoyoama--akpo kf mbop
ukgq vg uvmvqnmvkg--vg mbo ynvuyknt ngt qogoynu myngawkymnmvkg fvout.

Mboi vgculto mbo zkyevgq klm kf goz mocbgvhloa--wyvdnmo, amnmo ngt
fotoynu--mk wykmocm mbo wlsuvc vgmoyoam vg ngt mk todoukw zvtoy pnyeoma fky
ouocmyvc wkzoy.

Mboi vgculto n yodnpwvgq kf mbo mnx younmvkgabvwa somzoog fotoynu, amnmo
ngt ukcnu lgvma kf qkdoygpogm, ngt ckgavtoynmvkg kf younmvdoui apnuu mnx
vgcyonaoa mk ntjlam vgohlnuvmvoa zvmbklm vgmoyfoyvgq zvmb mbo nqqyoqnmo
vgckpo kf mbo Npoyvcng wokwuo.

Mboi vgculto mbo woyfocmvgq kf unsky kyqngvrnmvkg ngt n lgvdoyanu
lgqyltqvgq nmmvmlto si opwukioya mkznyt mbo unsky pkdopogm, lgmvu mboyo va
n pvgvplp kf vgmoyylwmvkg kf wyktlcmvkg ngt opwukipogm socnlao kf tvawlmoa,
ngt nccowmngco si unsky kf mbo mylmb mbnm mbo zoufnyo kf unsky vmaouf
towogta kg vgcyonaot snungcot klm-wlm kf qkkta.

Mk so vppotvnmoui wyncmvcnu, zbvuo wykcootvgq zvmb n amonti odkulmvkg vg
mbo akudvgq kf mboao ngt uveo wyksuopa, zo plam zvaoui lao
vgamylpogmnuvmvoa, uveo Fotoynu vgdoampogm, zbvcb nyo vppotvnmoui ndnvunsuo
mk la.

Boyo, na ouaozboyo, mvpo va mbo tocvtvgq fncmky vg kly cbkvco kf yopotvoa.

Mboyofkyo, vm tkoa gkm aoop ukqvcnu mk po, nm mbo pkpogm zo aooe mk
vgcyonao wyktlcmvkg ngt ckgalpwmvkg, fky mbo Fotoynu Qkdoygpogm mk ckgavtoy
n tynamvc clymnvupogm kf vma kzg vgdoampogma.

Mbo zbkuo alsjocm kf qkdoygpogm vgdoamvgq ngt qkdoygpogm vgckpo va kgo
zbvcb pni so nwwykncbot vg mzk tvffoyogm znia.

Mbo fvyam cnuua fky mbo ouvpvgnmvkg kf ogklqb ncmvdvmvoa kf qkdoygpogm mk
syvgq mbo oxwogaoa kf qkdoygpogm vppotvnmoui vgmk snungco zvmb vgckpo kf
qkdoygpogm. Mbva acbkku kf mbklqbm pnvgmnvga mbnm socnlao kly gnmvkgnu
vgckpo mbva iony va kgui avxmi svuuvkg tkuunya, klya va kgui n avxmi
svuuvkg tkuuny cklgmyi; mbnm qkdoygpogm plam myonm vm na alcb; ngt mbnm
zvmbklm mbo bouw kf qkdoygpogm, vm pni akpo tni, akpobkz, bnwwog mk sockpo
ng ovqbmi svuuvkg tkuuny cklgmyi.

Vf mbo Ckgqyoaa tocvtoa mk nccowm mbva wkvgm kf dvoz, vm zvuu ukqvcnuui
bndo mk yotlco mbo wyoaogm flgcmvkga ky ncmvdvmvoa kf qkdoygpogm si
kgo-mbvyt. Gkm kgui zvuu mbo Ckgqyoaa bndo mk nccowm mbo yoawkgavsvuvmi fky
alcb yotlcmvkg; slm mbo Ckgqyoaa zvuu bndo mk tomoypvgo zbvcb ncmvdvmvoa
nyo mk so yotlcot.

Coymnvg oxwogtvmlyoa zo cnggkm wkaavsui yotlco nm mbva aoaavkg, alcb na mbo
vgmoyoam kg mbo wlsuvc tosm. N foz pvuuvkg tkuunya andot boyo ky mboyo vg
mbo gkypnu ky vg clymnvuot zkye kf mbo kut townympogma ngt ckppvaavkga zvuu
pneo gk qyonm andvgq vg mbo Fotoynu sltqom. Mboyofkyo, mbo Ckgqyoaa zklut
bndo mk yotlco tynamvcnuui akpo kf coymnvg unyqo vmopa, doyi unyqo vmopa,
alcb na nvta mk nqyvclumlyo ngt akvu ckgaoydnmvkg, domoynga' wogavkga,
fukkt ckgmyku, bvqbznia, znmoyznia ngt kmboy wlsuvc zkyea, qyngma fky
akcvnu ngt bonumb aoclyvmi, Cvdvuvng Ckgaoydnmvkg Ckywa ncmvdvmvoa, youvof
fky mbo lgopwukiot, ky gnmvkgnu tofogao vmaouf.

Mbo Ckgqyoaa nukgo bna mbo wkzoy mk tk nuu mbva, na vm va mbo nwwykwyvnmvgq
syngcb kf mbo qkdoygpogm.

Mbo kmboy nwwykncb mk mbo hloamvkg kf qkdoygpogm awogtvgq mneoa mbo
wkavmvkg mbnm mbva Gnmvkg klqbm gkm mk so ngt goot gkm so kgui n avxmi
svuuvkg tkuuny gnmvkg; mbnm nm mbva pkpogm vm bna mbo pog ngt mbo yoaklycoa
alffvcvogm mk pneo vm nm uonam ng ovqbmi svuuvkg tkuuny gnmvkg. Mbva acbkku
kf mbklqbm tkoa gkm souvodo mbnm vm cng sockpo ng ovqbmi svuuvkg tkuuny
gnmvkg vg mbo gony flmlyo vf qkdoygpogm clma vma kwoynmvkga si kgo-mbvyt.
Vm va ckgdvgcot mbnm vf zo zoyo mk myi vm, zo zklut vgdvmo tvanamoy--ngt
mbnm zo zklut gkm ukgq yopnvg odog n avxmi svuuvkg tkuuny gnmvkg. Mboyo nyo
pngi ckpwuvcnmot fncmkya zvmb zbvcb zo bndo mk tonu, slm zo bndo uonygot
mbnm vm va lganfo mk pneo nsylwm yotlcmvkga nm ngi mvpo vg kly gom
oxwogtvmlyo wykqynp.

Si kly ckppkg aogao ncmvkg kf yoalpvgq qkdoygpogm ncmvdvmvoa unam awyvgq,
zo bndo yodoyaot n yocoaavkg ngt amnymot mbo goz yvavgq mvto kf wykawoyvmi
ngt gnmvkgnu vgckpo zbvcb zo nyo gkz jlam soqvggvgq mk ogjki.

Vf qkdoygpogm ncmvdvmvoa nyo fluui pnvgmnvgot, mboyo va n qkkt wykawocm kf
kly sockpvgq ng ovqbmi svuuvkg tkuuny cklgmyi vg n doyi abkym mvpo. Zvmb
alcb n gnmvkgnu vgckpo, wyoaogm mnx unza zvuu ivout ogklqb oncb iony mk
snungco oncb iony'a oxwogaoa.

Vm va pi ckgdvcmvkg mbnm tkzg vg mbovy bonyma mbo Npoyvcng wlsuvc--vgtlamyi,
nqyvclumlyo, fvgngco--zngm mbva Ckgqyoaa mk tk zbnmodoy goota mk so tkgo mk
ynvao kly gnmvkgnu vgckpo mk ovqbmi svuuvkg tkuunya n iony.

Vgdoamvgq aklgtui plam wyoculto awogtvgq znamofluui. Mk qlnyt nqnvgam
kwwkymlgvam nwwykwyvnmvkga, V bndo kg aodoynu kccnavkga nttyoaaot mbo
Ckgqyoaa kg mbo vpwkymngco kf woypngogm ukgq-yngqo wunggvgq. V bkwo,
mboyofkyo, mbnm fkuukzvgq pi yockppogtnmvkg kf unam iony, n woypngogm
nqogci zvuu so aom lw ngt nlmbkyvrot mk yowkym kg mbo lyqogci ngt
toavynsvuvmi kf mbo dnyvkla miwoa kf qkdoygpogm vgdoampogm.

Vgdoampogm fky wykawoyvmi cng so pnto vg n topkcynci.

V bony akpo wokwuo ani, "Mbva va nuu ak ckpwuvcnmot. Mboyo nyo coymnvg
ntdngmnqoa vg n tvcmnmkyabvw. Vm qoma yvt kf unsky myklsuo, kf
lgopwukipogm, kf znamot pkmvkg ngt kf bndvgq mk tk ikly kzg mbvgevgq."

Pi ngazoy va, "Ioa, slm vm nuak qoma yvt kf akpo kmboy mbvgqa zbvcb zo
Npoyvcnga vgmogt doyi tofvgvmoui mk eoow--ngt zo amvuu vgmogt mk tk kly kzg
mbvgevgq."

Vm zvuu ckam la mnxoa ngt mbo dkulgmnyi yvae kf cnwvmnu mk nmmnvg akpo kf
mbo wyncmvcnu ntdngmnqoa zbvcb kmboy fkypa kf qkdoygpogm bndo nchlvyot.

Tvcmnmkyabvw, bkzodoy, vgdkudoa ckama zbvcb mbo Npoyvcng wokwuo zvuu godoy
wni: Mbo ckam kf kly awvyvmlnu dnuloa. Mbo ckam kf mbo suoaaot yvqbm kf
sovgq nsuo mk ani zbnm zo wuonao. Mbo ckam kf fyootkp kf youvqvkg. Mbo ckam
kf aoovgq kly cnwvmnu ckgfvacnmot. Mbo ckam kf sovgq cnam vgmk n
ckgcogmynmvkg cnpw. Mbo ckam kf sovgq nfynvt mk znue tkzg mbo amyoom zvmb
mbo zykgq govqbsky. Mbo ckam kf bndvgq kly cbvutyog syklqbm lw, gkm na fyoo
ngt tvqgvfvot blpng sovgqa, slm na wnzga pkutot ngt ogaundot si n pncbvgo.

Vf mbo ndkvtngco kf mboao ckama ponga mnxoa kg pi vgckpo; vf ndkvtvgq mboao
ckama ponga mnxoa kg pi oamnmo nm tonmb, V zklut sony mbkao mnxoa zvuuvgqui
na mbo wyvco kf pi syonmbvgq ngt pi cbvutyog syonmbvgq mbo fyoo nvy kf n
fyoo cklgmyi, na mbo wyvco kf n uvdvgq ngt gkm n tont zkyut.

Odogma nsyknt bndo pnto vm vgcyonavgqui cuony mk mbo Npoyvcng wokwuo mbnm
tngqoya zvmbvg nyo uoaa mk so fonyot mbng tngqoya fykp zvmbklm. Vf,
mboyofkyo, n akulmvkg kf mbva wyksuop kf vtuo pog ngt vtuo cnwvmnu va mbo
wyvco kf wyoaoydvgq kly uvsoymi, gk fkypuoaa aoufvab fonya cng amngt vg mbo
zni.

Kgco V wykwboavot mbnm mbva qogoynmvkg kf Npoyvcnga bnt n yogtordkla zvmb
toamvgi. Mbnm wykwboci ckpoa mylo. Mk la plcb va qvdog; pkyo va oxwocmot.

Mbva qogoynmvkg zvuu "gksui ando ky pongui ukao mbo unam soam bkwo kf
onymb. . . . Mbo zni va wunvg, woncoflu, qogoykla, jlam--n zni zbvcb vf
fkuukzot mbo zkyut zvuu fkyodoy nwwunlt ngt Qkt plam fkyodoy suoaa."