Qt qjx Gxowqx wod Jtmgx tn Fxpfxgxoqwqacxg:

Wg w owqato kx gqauu htoqaomx qt xobti w uaqxfwuui mopfxhxdxoqxd
pftgpxfaqi; wod aq ag pftzwzux qjwq toui fxhyuxgg gpxhmuwqato wod
dagfxlwfd tn uxlaqavwqx zmgaoxgg vxqjtdg to qjx pwfq tn qjx zmgaoxgg
ktfud hwo vwqxfawuui vwf qjag pftgpxfaqi.

Ot Htolfxgg ao tmf qavx jwg dtox vtfx lttd ktfy tn avptfqwohx qjwo qjx
pfxgxoq Htolfxgg. Qjxfx kxfx gxcxfwu vwqqxfg uxnq monaoagjxd wq itmf
uwgq gxggato, jtkxcxf, kjahj A vtgq xwfoxgqui jtpx itm kauu htvpuxqx
zxntfx itmf wdbtmfovxoq.

A wlwao fxhtvvxod w uwk pftjazaqaol wuu htfptfwqatog nftv htoqfazmqaol
qt qjx hwvpwalo xspxogxg tn woi pwfqi. Gmhj w zauu jwg wufxwdi pwgq tox
Jtmgx tn Htolfxgg. Uxq aodacadmwug htoqfazmqx wg qjxi dxgafx; zmq uxq
mg pftjazaq ao xnnxhqacx nwgjato wuu htfptfwqatog nftv vwyaol
htoqfazmqatog ntf woi ptuaqahwu pmfptgx, dafxhqui tf aodafxhqui.

Wotqjxf zauu kjahj jwg bmgq pwgq tox Jtmgx tn qjx Htolfxgg wod kjahj aq
ag mflxoqui oxhxggwfi gjtmud zx xowhqxd aoqt uwk ag qjwq htonxffaol
mpto qjx Ltcxfovxoq qjx faljq tn wppxwu ao hfavaowu hwgxg to emxgqatog
tn uwk. Qjag faljq xsagqg ao vwoi tn qjx Gqwqxg; aq xsagqg ao qjx
Dagqfahq tn Htumvzaw zi whq tn qjx Htolfxgg. Aq ag tn htmfgx otq
pftptgxd qjwq ao woi hwgx w cxfdahq ntf qjx dxnxodwoq to qjx vxfaqg
gjtmud zx gxq wgadx. Fxhxoqui ao tox dagqfahq kjxfx qjx Ltcxfovxoq jwd
aodahqxd hxfqwao pxfgtog ntf htogpafwhi ao htooxhqato kaqj fxzwqxg, qjx
htmfq gmgqwaoxd qjx dxnxodwoq'g dxvmffxf; kjaux ao wotqjxf bmfagdahqato
wo aodahqvxoq ntf htogpafwhi qt tzqwao fxzwqxg jwg zxxo gmgqwaoxd zi
qjx htmfq, htocahqatog tzqwaoxd modxf aq, wod qkt dxnxodwoqg gxoqxohxd
qt avpfagtovxoq. Qjx qkt hwgxg fxnxffxd qt vwi otq zx ao fxwu htonuahq
kaqj xwhj tqjxf, zmq aq ag montfqmowqx qjwq qjxfx gjtmud xcxo zx wo
wppwfxoq htonuahq. Wq pfxgxoq qjxfx ag ot kwi zi kjahj qjx Ltcxfovxoq
hwo hwmgx gmhj w htonuahq, kjxo aq thhmfg, qt zx gtucxd zi wo wppxwu qt
w jaljxf htmfq; wod qjx kjxxug tn bmgqahx wfx zuthyxd kaqjtmq woi fxwu
dxhagato tn qjx emxgqato. A hwo otq qtt gqftolui mflx qjx pwggwlx tn
qjx zauu ao emxgqato. W nwaumfx qt pwgg aq kauu fxgmuq ao gxfatmgui
jwvpxfaol qjx Ltcxfovxoq ao aqg xnntfq qt tzqwao bmgqahx, xgpxhawuui
wlwaogq kxwuqji aodacadmwug tf htfptfwqatog kjt dt kftol; wod vwi wugt
pfxcxoq qjx Ltcxfovxoq nftv tzqwaoaol bmgqahx ntf kwlx-ktfyxfg kjt wfx
otq qjxvgxucxg wzux xnnxhqacxui qt htoqxgq w hwgx kjxfx qjx bmdlvxoq tn
wo aonxfatf htmfq jwg zxxo wlwaogq qjxv. A jwcx gpxhanahwuui ao caxk w
fxhxoq dxhagato zi w dagqfahq bmdlx uxwcaol fwaukwi xvputixxg kaqjtmq
fxvxdi ntf catuwqato tn w hxfqwao gt-hwuuxd uwztf gqwqmqx. Aq gxxvg wo
wzgmfdaqi qt pxfvaq w gaolux dagqfahq bmdlx, wlwaogq kjwq vwi zx qjx
bmdlvxoq tn qjx avvxogx vwbtfaqi tn jag htuuxwlmxg to qjx zxohj,
qt dxhuwfx w uwk gtuxvoui xowhqxd zi qjx Htolfxgg qt zx
"mohtogqaqmqatowu," wod qjxo qt dxoi qt qjx Ltcxfovxoq qjx faljq qt
jwcx qjx Gmpfxvx Htmfq dxnaoaqxui dxhadx qjx emxgqato.

Aq ag kxuu qt fxhtuuxhq qjwq qjx fxwu xnnahaxohi tn qjx uwk tnqxo
dxpxodg otq mpto qjx pwggwlx tn whqg wg qt kjahj qjxfx ag lfxwq pmzuah
xshaqxvxoq, zmq mpto qjx pwggwlx tn whqg tn qjag owqmfx wg qt kjahj
qjxfx ag otq vmhj pmzuah xshaqxvxoq, zxhwmgx qjxfx ag uaqqux pmzuah
modxfgqwodaol tn qjxaf avptfqwohx, kjaux qjx aoqxfxgqxd pwfqaxg wfx
yxxoui wuacx qt qjx dxgafwzauaqi tn dxnxwqaol qjxv. Qjx avptfqwohx tn
xowhqaol aoqt uwk qjx pwfqahmuwf zauu ao emxgqato ag nmfqjxf aohfxwgxd
zi qjx nwhq qjwq qjx Ltcxfovxoq jwg otk dxnaoaqxui zxlmo w ptuahi tn
fxgtfqaol qt qjx hfavaowu uwk ao qjtgx qfmgq wod aoqxfgqwqx htvvxfhx
hwgxg kjxfx gmhj w htmfgx tnnxfg w fxwgtowzux hjwohx tn gmhhxgg. Wq
nafgq, wg kwg pftpxf, xcxfi xnntfq kwg vwdx qt xontfhx qjxgx uwkg zi
hacau pfthxxdaolg; zmq aq jwg zxhtvx aohfxwgaolui xcadxoq qjwq qjx
whqato tn qjx Ltcxfovxoq ao naowuui dxhadaol, ao hxfqwao hwgxg, qt
modxfqwyx hfavaowu pfthxxdaolg kwg bmgqanawzux; wod qjtmlj qjxfx jwcx
zxxo gtvx htogpahmtmg nwaumfxg ao qjxgx hwgxg, kx jwcx jwd vwoi
gmhhxggxg, kjahj jwcx modtmzqxdui jwd w dxqxffxoq xnnxhq mpto
xcau-dtxfg, kjxqjxf qjx pxowuqi aonuahqxd kwg ao qjx gjwpx tn naox tf
avpfagtovxoq--wod pxowuqaxg tn ztqj yaodg jwcx wufxwdi zxxo aonuahqxd
zi qjx htmfqg. Tn htmfgx, kjxfx qjx bmdlx hwo gxx jag kwi qt aonuahq
qjx pxowuqi tn avpfagtovxoq qjx dxqxffxoq xnnxhq tn qjx pmoagjvxoq to
tqjxf tnnxodxfg ag aohfxwgxd; zmq gmnnahaxoqui jxwci naoxg whhtvpuagj
vmhj. Bmdlx Jtuq, tn qjx Oxk Itfy dagqfahq htmfq, ao w fxhxoq dxhagato
wdvafwzui gqwqxd qjx oxxd ntf qfxwqaol kaqj bmgq gxcxfaqi tnnxodxfg tn
qjag yaod. Jag tpaoato fmog ao pwfq wg ntuutkg:

'Qjx Ltcxfovxoq'g xcadxohx qt xgqwzuagj qjx dxnxodwoq'g lmauq kwg
huxwf, htohumgacx, wod modagpmqxd. Qjx hwgx kwg w nuwlfwoq tox. Qjx
qfwogwhqatog kjahj qtty puwhx modxf qjag auuxlwu htoqfwhq kxfx cxfi
uwflx; qjx wvtmoqg tn fxzwqxg fxqmfoxd kxfx htogadxfwzux; wod qjx
wvtmoq tn qjx fxzwqx aqgxun kwg uwflx, wvtmoqaol qt vtfx qjwo tox-nanqj
tn qjx xoqafx qwfann hjwflx ntf qjx qfwogptfqwqato tn vxfhjwodagx nftv
qjag haqi qt Dxqftaq. Aq ag otq qtt vmhj qt gwi, ao vi tpaoato, qjwq an
qjag zmgaoxgg kwg hwffaxd to ntf w htogadxfwzux qavx to qjwq
zwgag--qjwq ag, an qjag daghfavaowqato ao nwctf tn qjag pwfqahmuwf
gjappxf kwg vwdx kaqj wo 18 aogqxwd tn w 23 hxoq fwqx wod qjx qwfann
fwqx kwg vwaoqwaoxd wg wlwaogq qjxaf htvpxqaqtfg--qjx fxgmuq valjq zx
wod otq avpftzwzui ktmud zx qjwq qjxaf htvpxqaqtfg ktmud zx dfacxo tmq
tn zmgaoxgg. Qjag hfavx ag tox kjahj ao aqg owqmfx ag dxuazxfwqx wod
pfxvxdaqwqxd. A qjaoy tcxf w ntfqoaljq xuwpgxd zxqkxxo qjx dwqx tn
Pwuvxf'g uxqqxf fxemxgqaol qjx fxdmhxd fwqx wod qjx wogkxf tn qjx
fwauftwd htvpwoi dxhadaol qt lfwoq aq, wod qjxo ntf vtoqjg wnqxfkwfdg
qjag zmgaoxgg kwg hwffaxd to wod qjxgx huwavg ntf fxzwqxg gmzvaqqxd
vtoqj wnqxf vtoqj wod hjxhyg ao pwivxoq tn qjxv dfwko vtoqj wnqxf
vtoqj. Gmhj w catuwqato tn qjx uwk, ao vi tpaoato, ao aqg xggxoqawu
owqmfx, ag w cxfi vmhj vtfx jxaotmg whq qjwo qjx tfdaowfi htvvto,
cmulwf hfavxg kjahj htvx zxntfx hfavaowu htmfqg htogqwoqui ntf
pmoagjvxoq wod kjahj wfagx nftv gmddxo pwggato tf qxvpqwqato. Qjag
hfavx ao qjag hwgx kwg htvvaqqxd zi vxo tn xdmhwqato wod tn uwflx
zmgaoxgg xspxfaxohx, kjtgx gqwodaol ao qjx htvvmoaqi kwg gmhj qjwq qjxi
valjq jwcx zxxo xspxhqxd qt gxq wo xswvpux tn tzxdaxohx qt uwk mpto qjx
vwaoqxowohx tn kjahj wutox ao qjag htmoqfi qjx gxhmfaqi tn qjxaf
pftpxfqi dxpxodg. Aq kwg htvvaqqxd to zxjwun tn w lfxwq fwauftwd
htfptfwqato, kjahj, uayx tqjxf fwauftwd htfptfwqatog, jwg fxhxacxd
lfwqmaqtmgui nftv qjx Gqwqx uwflx wod cwumwzux pfacauxlxg ntf qjx
pmzuah'g htocxoaxohx wod aqg tko, kjahj pxfntfvg emwga pmzuah nmohqatog
wod kjahj ag hjwflxd kaqj qjx jaljxgq tzualwqato ao qjx qfwogwhqato tn
aqg zmgaoxgg qt qfxwq qjx haqarxog tn qjag htmoqfi wuayx, wod otq qt
hwffi to aqg zmgaoxgg kaqj mobmgq daghfavaowqatog zxqkxxo dannxfxoq
haqarxog tf dannxfxoq huwggxg tn haqarxog. Qjag hfavx ao aqg owqmfx ag
tox mgmwuui dtox kaqj gxhfxhi, wod pfttn tn kjahj aq ag cxfi dannahmuq
qt tzqwao. Qjx aoqxfgqwqx htvvxfhx whq kwg pwgq ao 1887, oxwfui qkxoqi
ixwfg wlt. Xcxf gaohx qjwq qavx htvpuwaoqg tn qjx lfwoqaol tn fxzwqxg
zi fwauftwdg jwcx zxxo htvvto, mflxoq, wod aogagqxoq, wod wuqjtmlj qjx
Htolfxgg jwg fxpxwqxdui pwgq uxlaguwqato xodxwctfaol qt pmq w gqtp qt
qjag xcau, qjx dannahmuqi tn tzqwaoaol pfttn mpto kjahj qt zfaol
pftgxhmqato ao qjxgx hwgxg ag gt lfxwq qjwq qjag ag qjx nafgq hwgx qjwq
jwg xcxf zxxo zftmljq ao qjag htmfq, wod, wg A wv ntfvxd, qjag hwgx wod
tox fxhxoqui zftmljq ao Pjauwdxupjaw wfx qjx toui hwgxg qjwq jwcx xcxf
zxxo zftmljq ao qjx xwgqxfo pwfq tn qjag htmoqfi. Ao nwhq, zmq nxk
hwgxg tn qjag yaod jwcx xcxf zxxo zftmljq ao qjag htmoqfi, Xwgq tf
Kxgq. Otk, modxf qjxgx hafhmvgqwohxg, A wv ntfhxd qt qjx htohumgato, ao
w hwgx ao kjahj qjx pfttn ag gt huxwf wod qjx nwhqg wfx gt nuwlfwoq, aq
ag qjx dmqi tn qjx htmfq qt nas w pxowuqi kjahj gjwuu ao gtvx dxlfxx zx
htvvxogmfwqx kaqj qjx lfwcaqi tn qjx tnnxogx. Wg zxqkxxo qjx qkt
dxnxodwoqg, ao vi tpaoato, qjx pfaohapwu pxowuqi gjtmud zx avptgxd to
qjx htfptfwqato. Qjx qfwnnah vwowlxf ao qjag hwgx, pfxgmvwzui, whqxd
kaqjtmq woi wdcwoqwlx qt javgxun wod kaqjtmq woi aoqxfxgq ao qjx
qfwogwhqato, xaqjxf zi qjx dafxhq wmqjtfaqi tf ao whhtfdwohx kaqj kjwq
jx modxfgqttd qt zx qjx ptuahi tf qjx kagjxg tn jag xvputixf.

"Qjx gxoqxohx tn qjag htmfq ao qjag hwgx ag, qjwq qjx dxnxodwoq
Ptvxfti, ntf xwhj tn qjx gas tnnxogxg mpto kjahj jx jwg zxxo htocahqxd,
zx naoxd qjx gmv tn $1,000, vwyaol gas naoxg, wvtmoqaol ao wuu qt qjx
gmv tn $6,000; wod qjx dxnxodwoq, Qjx Oxk Itfy Hxoqfwu wod Jmdgto Facxf
Fwauftwd Htvpwoi, ntf xwhj tn qjx gas hfavxg tn kjahj aq jwg zxxo
htocahqxd, zx naoxd qjx gmv tn $18,000, vwyaol gas naoxg wvtmoqaol ao
qjx wllfxlwqx qt qjx gmv tn $108,000, wod bmdlvxoq qt qjwq xnnxhq kauu
zx xoqxfxd ao qjag hwgx."

Ao htooxhqato kaqj qjag vwqqxf, A ktmud uayx qt hwuu wqqxoqato qt qjx
cxfi mogwqagnwhqtfi gqwqx tn tmf hfavaowu uwk, fxgmuqaol ao uwflx pwfq
nftv qjx jwzaq tn gxqqaol wgadx qjx bmdlvxoqg tn aonxfatf htmfqg to
qxhjoahwuaqaxg wzgtumqxui mohtooxhqxd kaqj qjx vxfaqg tn qjx hwgx, wod
kjxfx qjxfx ag ot wqqxvpq qt gjtk qjwq qjxfx jwg zxxo woi nwaumfx tn
gmzgqwoqawu bmgqahx. Aq ktmud zx kxuu qt xowhq w uwk pftcadaol
gtvxqjaol qt qjx xnnxhq qjwq:

Ot bmdlvxoq gjwuu zx gxq wgadx tf oxk qfawu lfwoqxd ao woi hwmgx, hacau
tf hfavaowu, to qjx lftmod tn vagdafxhqato tn qjx bmfi tf qjx avpftpxf
wdvaggato tf fxbxhqato tn xcadxohx, tf ntf xfftf wg qt woi vwqqxf tn
puxwdaol tf pfthxdmfx mouxgg, ao qjx tpaoato tn qjx htmfq qt kjahj qjx
wppuahwqato ag vwdx, wnqxf wo xswvaowqato tn qjx xoqafx hwmgx, aq gjwuu
wnnafvwqacxui wppxwf qjwq qjx xfftf htvpuwaoxd tn jwg fxgmuqxd ao w
vaghwffawlx tn bmgqahx.

Ao vi uwgq vxggwlx A gmllxgqxd qjx xowhqvxoq tn w uwk ao htooxhqato
kaqj qjx aggmwohx tn aobmohqatog, wqqxoqato jwcaol zxxo gjwfpui dfwko
qt qjx vwqqxf zi qjx dxvwod qjwq qjx faljq tn wppuiaol aobmohqatog ao
uwztf hwgxg gjtmud zx kjtuui wztuagjxd. Aq ag wq uxwgq dtmzqnmu kjxqjxf
w uwk wztuagjaol wuqtlxqjxf qjx mgx tn aobmohqatog ao gmhj hwgxg ktmud
gqwod qjx qxgq tn qjx htmfqg; ao kjahj hwgx tn htmfgx qjx uxlaguwqato
ktmud zx aoxnnxhqacx. Vtfxtcxf, A zxuaxcx aq ktmud zx kftol wuqtlxqjxf
qt pftjazaq qjx mgx tn aobmohqatog. Aq ag hfavaowu qt pxfvaq givpwqji
ntf hfavaowug qt kxwyxo tmf jwodg ao mpjtudaol qjx uwk; wod an vxo gxxy
qt dxgqfti uanx tf pftpxfqi zi vtz catuxohx qjxfx gjtmud zx ot
avpwafvxoq tn qjx ptkxf tn qjx htmfqg qt dxwu kaqj qjxv ao qjx vtgq
gmvvwfi wod xnnxhqacx kwi ptggazux. Zmq gt nwf wg ptggazux qjx wzmgx tn
qjx ptkxf gjtmud zx pftcadxd wlwaogq zi gtvx gmhj uwk wg A wdcthwqxd
uwgq ixwf.

Ao qjag vwqqxf tn aobmohqatog qjxfx ag utdlxd ao qjx jwodg tn qjx
bmdahawfi w oxhxggwfi ptkxf kjahj ag oxcxfqjxuxgg gmzbxhq qt qjx
ptggazauaqi tn lfwcx wzmgx. Aq ag w ptkxf qjwq gjtmud zx xsxfhagxd kaqj
xsqfxvx hwfx wod gjtmud zx gmzbxhq qt qjx bxwutmg ghfmqaoi tn wuu vxo,
wod htodxvowqato gjtmud zx vxqxd tmq wg vmhj qt qjx bmdlx kjt nwaug qt
mgx aq ztudui kjxo oxhxggwfi wg qt qjx bmdlx kjt mgxg aq kwoqtoui tf
tppfxggacxui. Tn htmfgx w bmdlx gqftol xotmlj qt zx naq ntf jag tnnahx
kauu xobtao woi fxgtfq qt catuxohx tf aoqavadwqato, xgpxhawuui zi
htogpafwhi, ot vwqqxf kjwq jag tpaoato vwi zx tn qjx faljqg tn qjx
tfalaowu emwffxu. Qjxfx vmgq zx ot jxgaqwqato ao dxwuaol kaqj dagtfdxf.
Zmq qjxfx vmgq uayxkagx zx ot gmhj wzmgx tn qjx aobmohqacx ptkxf wg ag
avpuaxd ao ntfzaddaol uwztfaol vxo qt gqfacx ntf qjxaf tko zxqqxfvxoq
ao pxwhxnmu wod uwknmu kwig; otf vmgq qjx aobmohqato zx mgxd vxfxui qt
wad gtvx zal htfptfwqato ao hwffiaol tmq ghjxvxg ntf aqg tko
wllfwodarxvxoq. Aq vmgq zx fxvxvzxfxd qjwq w pfxuavaowfi aobmohqato ao
w uwztf hwgx, an lfwoqxd kaqjtmq wdxemwqx pfttn (xcxo kjxo wmqjtfaqi
hwo zx ntmod qt gmpptfq qjx htohumgatog tn uwk to kjahj aq ag ntmodxd),
vwi tnqxo gxqqux qjx dagpmqx zxqkxxo qjx pwfqaxg; wod qjxfxntfx an
avpftpxfui lfwoqxd vwi dt affxpwfwzux kftol. Ixq qjxfx wfx vwoi bmdlxg
kjt wggmvx w vwqqxf-tn-htmfgx lfwoqaol tn w pfxuavaowfi aobmohqato qt
zx qjx tfdaowfi wod pftpxf bmdahawu dagptgaqato tn gmhj hwgxg; wod
qjxfx jwcx modtmzqxdui zxxo nuwlfwoq kftolg htvvaqqxd zi bmdlxg ao
htooxhqato kaqj uwztf dagpmqxg xcxo kaqjao qjx uwgq nxk ixwfg, wuqjtmlj
A qjaoy vmhj uxgg tnqxo qjwo ao ntfvxf ixwfg. Gmhj bmdlxg zi qjxaf
mokagx whqato avvxogxui gqfxolqjxo qjx jwodg tn qjtgx kjt wfx gqfacaol
xoqafxui qt dt wkwi kaqj qjx ptkxf tn aobmohqato; wod qjxfxntfx gmhj
hwfxuxgg mgx tn qjx aobmohqacx pfthxgg qxodg qt qjfxwqxo aqg cxfi
xsagqxohx, ntf an qjx Wvxfahwo pxtpux xcxf zxhtvx htocaohxd qjwq qjag
pfthxgg ag jwzaqmwuui wzmgxd, kjxqjxf ao vwqqxfg wnnxhqaol uwztf tf ao
vwqqxfg wnnxhqaol htfptfwqatog, aq kauu zx kxuu-oalj avptggazux qt
pfxcxoq aqg wztuaqato.

Aq vwi zx qjx jaljxgq dmqi tn w bmdlx wq woi lacxo vtvxoq qt dagfxlwfd,
otq vxfxui qjx kagjxg tn aodacadmwug tn lfxwq ptuaqahwu tf naowohawu
ptkxf, zmq qjx tcxfkjxuvaol qadx tn pmzuah gxoqavxoq; wod qjx bmdlx kjt
dtxg qjmg dagfxlwfd pmzuah gxoqavxoq kjxo aq ag kftol, kjt zfmgjxg
wgadx qjx puxw tn woi gpxhawu aoqxfxgq kjxo qjx puxwdaol ag otq ftmodxd
to faljqxtmgoxgg, pxfntfvg qjx jaljxgq gxfcahx qt qjx htmoqfi. Gmhj w
bmdlx ag dxgxfcaol tn wuu jtotf; wod wuu jtotf hwo otq zx pwad qt qjag
kagx wod nxwfuxgg bmdlx an kx pxfvaq qjx lftkqj tn wo wzgmfd htocxoqato
kjahj ktmud ntfzad woi hfaqahagv tn qjx bmdlx tn wotqjxf qipx, kjt
gjtkg javgxun qavad ao qjx pfxgxohx tn wfftlwoq dagtfdxf, tf kjt to
aogmnnahaxoq lftmodg lfwoqg wo aobmohqato qjwq dtxg lfwcx aobmgqahx, tf
kjt ao jag hwpwhaqi wg w htogqfmxf, wod qjxfxntfx ao pwfq w vwyxf, tn
qjx uwk, ao nuwlfwoq nwgjato qjkwfqg qjx hwmgx tn dxhxoq ltcxfovxoq.
Qjx bmdlx jwg w ptkxf tcxf kjahj ot fxcaxk hwo zx xsxfhagxd; jx javgxun
gaqg ao fxcaxk mpto qjx whqg tn ztqj qjx xsxhmqacx wod uxlaguwqacx
zfwohjxg tn qjx Ltcxfovxoq; gwcx ao qjx vtgq xsqfwtfdaowfi hwgxg jx ag
wvxowzux toui wq qjx zwf tn pmzuah tpaoato; wod aq ag mokagx qt
vwaoqwao qjwq pmzuah tpaoato ao fxnxfxohx qt w vwo kaqj gmhj ptkxf
gjwuu oxaqjxf zx xspfxgq otf uxd.

Qjx zxgq bmdlxg jwcx xcxf zxxo ntfxvtgq qt daghuwav woi avvmoaqi nftv
hfaqahagv. Qjag jwg zxxo qfmx gaohx qjx dwig tn qjx lfxwq Xoluagj Utfd
Hjwohxuutf Pwfyxf, kjt gwad: "Uxq wuu pxtpux zx wq uazxfqi qt yotk kjwq
A ntmod vi bmdlvxoq mpto; qjwq, gt kjxo A jwcx lacxo aq ao woi hwmgx,
tqjxfg vwi zx wq uazxfqi qt bmdlx tn vx." Qjx pftpfaxqaxg tn qjx hwgx
kxfx gxq ntfqj kaqj gaolmuwf huxwfoxgg wod lttd qxvpxf zi Bmdlx K. J.
Qwnq, kjxo w Moaqxd Gqwqxg hafhmaq bmdlx, xuxcxo ixwfg wlt, ao 1895:

"Qjx tpptfqmoaqi nfxxui wod pmzuahui qt hfaqaharx bmdahawu whqato ag tn
cwgqui vtfx avptfqwohx qt qjx ztdi ptuaqah qjwo qjx avvmoaqi tn htmfqg
wod bmdlxg nftv mobmgq wgpxfgatog wod wqqwhy. Otqjaol qxodg vtfx qt
fxodxf bmdlxg hwfxnmu ao qjxaf dxhagatog wod wosatmgui gtuahaqtmg qt dt
xswhq bmgqahx qjwo qjx htoghatmgoxgg qjwq xcxfi whq tn qjxafg ag qt zx
gmzbxhqxd qt qjx aoqxuualxoq ghfmqaoi wod hwodad hfaqahagv tn qjxaf
nxuutk-vxo. Gmhj hfaqahagv ag zxoxnahawu ao pftptfqato wg aq ag nwaf,
dagpwggatowqx, daghfavaowqaol, wod zwgxd to w yotkuxdlx tn gtmod uxlwu
pfaohapuxg. Qjx htvvxoqg vwdx zi uxwfoxd qxsq kfaqxfg wod zi qjx whmqx
xdaqtfg tn qjx cwfatmg uwk fxcaxkg mpto bmdahawu dxhagatog wfx
qjxfxntfx jaljui mgxnmu. Gmhj hfaqahg htogqaqmqx vtfx tf uxgg avpwfqawu
qfazmowug tn pftnxggatowu tpaoato zxntfx kjahj xwhj bmdlvxoq ag vwdx qt
gqwod tf nwuu to aqg vxfaqg, wod qjmg xsxfq w gqftol aonumxohx qt
gxhmfx moantfvaqi tn dxhagato. Zmq oto-pftnxggatowu hfaqahagv wugt ag
zi ot vxwog kaqjtmq aqg mgxg, xcxo an whhtvpwoaxd, wg aq tnqxo ag, zi w
dafxhq wqqwhy mpto qjx bmdahawu nwafoxgg wod vtqacxg tn qjx thhmpwoqg
tn qjx zxohj; ntf an qjx uwk ag zmq qjx xggxohx tn htvvto gxogx, qjx
pftqxgq tn vwoi wcxfwlx vxo vwi xcadxohx w dxnxhq ao w bmdahawu
htohumgato, qjtmlj zwgxd to qjx oahxgq uxlwu fxwgtoaol wod pftntmodxgq
uxwfoaol. Qjx qkt avptfqwoq xuxvxoqg tn vtfwu hjwfwhqxf ao w bmdlx wfx
wo xwfoxgq dxgafx qt fxwhj w bmgq htohumgato wod htmfwlx qt xontfhx aq.
Ao gt nwf wg nxwf tn pmzuah htvvxoq dtxg otq wnnxhq qjx htmfwlx tn w
bmdlx, zmq toui gpmfg jav to qt gxwfhj jag htoghaxohx wod qt fxwhj qjx
fxgmuq kjahj wppftcxg aqgxun qt jag aovtgq jxwfq gmhj htvvxoq gxfcxg w
mgxnmu pmfptgx. Qjxfx wfx nxk vxo, kjxqjxf qjxi wfx bmdlxg ntf uanx tf
ntf w gjtfqxf qxfv, kjt dt otq pfxnxf qt xwfo wod jtud qjx fxgpxhq tn
wuu, wod kjt hwo otq zx fxwhjxd wod vwdx qt pwmgx wod dxuazxfwqx zi
jtgqaux pmzuah hfaqahagv. Ao qjx hwgx tn bmdlxg jwcaol w uanx qxomfx,
aodxxd qjxaf cxfi aodxpxodxohx vwyxg qjx faljq nfxxui qt htvvxoq to
qjxaf dxhagatog tn lfxwqxf avptfqwohx, zxhwmgx aq ag qjx toui pfwhqahwu
wod wcwauwzux aogqfmvxoq ao qjx jwodg tn w nfxx pxtpux qt yxxp gmhj
bmdlxg wuacx qt qjx fxwgtowzux dxvwodg tn qjtgx qjxi gxfcx.

"To qjx tqjxf jwod, qjx dwolxf tn dxgqftiaol qjx pftpxf aonumxohx tn
bmdahawu dxhagatog zi hfxwqaol montmodxd pfxbmdahxg wlwaogq qjx htmfqg
bmgqanaxg wod fxemafxg qjwq mobmgq wqqwhyg gjwuu zx vxq wod wogkxfxd.
Htmfqg vmgq muqavwqxui fxgq qjxaf dxnxogx mpto qjx aojxfxoq gqfxolqj tn
qjx tpaoatog qjxi dxuacxf wg qjx lftmod ntf qjxaf htohumgatog wod vmgq
qfmgq qt qjx hwuv wod dxuazxfwqx bmdlvxoq tn wuu qjx pxtpux wg qjxaf
zxgq caodahwqato."

Qjxfx ag tox htogadxfwqato kjahj gjtmud zx qwyxo aoqt whhtmoq zi qjx
lttd pxtpux kjt hwffi w gtmod pftptgaqato qt wo xshxgg ao tzbxhqaol qt
woi hfaqahagv tn w bmdlx'g dxhagato. Qjx aogqaohq tn qjx Wvxfahwo
pxtpux wg w kjtux ag gtmod ao qjag vwqqxf. Qjxi kauu otq gmzghfazx qt
qjx dthqfaox qjwq woi pmzuah gxfcwoq ag qt zx wztcx wuu hfaqahagv. An
qjx zxgq haqarxog, qjtgx vtgq htvpxqxoq qt xspfxgg qjxaf bmdlvxoq ao
gmhj vwqqxfg, wod wztcx wuu qjtgx zxutolaol qt qjx lfxwq wod jtotfwzux
pftnxggato tn qjx zwf, gt pftntmodui aonumxoqawu ao Wvxfahwo uanx, qwyx
qjx ptgaqato qjwq qjxfx gjwuu zx ot hfaqahagv tn w bmdlx modxf woi
hafhmvgqwohxg, qjxaf caxk kauu otq zx whhxpqxd zi qjx Wvxfahwo pxtpux
wg w kjtux. Ao gmhj xcxoq qjx pxtpux kauu qmfo qt, wod qxod qt whhxpq
wg bmgqanawzux, qjx aoqxvpxfwqx wod avpftpxf hfaqahagv mqqxfxd zi
moktfqji wlaqwqtfg. Gmfxui aq ag w vagntfqmox qt uxwcx qt gmhj hfaqahg
w nmohqato, faljq, ao aqgxun, kjahj qjxi wfx hxfqwao qt wzmgx. Bmgq wod
qxvpxfwqx hfaqahagv, kjxo oxhxggwfi, ag w gwnxlmwfd wlwaogq qjx
whhxpqwohx zi qjx pxtpux wg w kjtux tn qjwq aoqxvpxfwqx woqwltoagv
qtkwfdg qjx bmdahawfi kjahj vmgq zx htvzwqxd zi xcxfi faljq-qjaoyaol
vwo, wod kjahj, an aq zxhwvx kadxgpfxwd wvtol qjx pxtpux wq uwflx,
ktmud htogqaqmqx w dafx vxowhx qt qjx Fxpmzuah.

Ao htooxhqato kaqj qjx dxuwig tn qjx uwk, A hwuu itmf wqqxoqato wod qjx
wqqxoqato tn qjx Owqato qt qjx pfxcwuxohx tn hfavx wvtol mg, wod wztcx
wuu qt qjx xpadxvah tn uiohjaol wod vtz catuxohx qjwq gpfaolg mp, otk
ao tox pwfq tn tmf htmoqfi, otk ao wotqjxf. Xwhj gxhqato, Otfqj, Gtmqj,
Xwgq, tf Kxgq, jwg aqg tko nwmuqg; ot gxhqato hwo kaqj kagdtv gpxod aqg
qavx bxxfaol wq qjx nwmuqg tn wotqjxf gxhqato; aq gjtmud zx zmgi qfiaol
qt wvxod aqg tko gjtfqhtvaolg. Qt dxwu kaqj qjx hfavx tn htffmpqato Aq
ag oxhxggwfi qt jwcx wo wkwyxoxd pmzuah htoghaxohx, wod qt gmppuxvxoq
qjag zi kjwqxcxf uxlaguwqato kauu wdd gpxxd wod hxfqwaoqi ao qjx
xsxhmqato tn qjx uwk. Kjxo kx dxwu kaqj uiohjaol xcxo vtqx ag
oxhxggwfi. W lfxwq vwoi kjaqx vxo wfx uiohjxd, zmq qjx hfavx ag
pxhmuawfui nfxemxoq ao fxgpxhq qt zuwhy vxo. Qjx lfxwqxgq xsagqaol
hwmgx tn uiohjaol ag qjx pxfpxqfwqato, xgpxhawuui zi zuwhy vxo, tn qjx
jadxtmg hfavx tn fwpx--qjx vtgq wztvaowzux ao wuu qjx hwqxltfi tn
hfavxg, xcxo ktfgx qjwo vmfdxf. Vtzg nfxemxoqui wcxolx qjx htvvaggato
tn qjag hfavx zi qjxvgxucxg qtfqmfaol qt dxwqj qjx vwo htvvaqqaol aq;
qjmg wcxolaol ao zxgqawu nwgjato w zxgqawu dxxd, wod fxdmhaol
qjxvgxucxg qt w uxcxu kaqj qjx hfavaowu.

Uwkuxggoxgg lftkg zi kjwq aq nxxdg mpto; wod kjxo vtzg zxlao qt uiohj
ntf fwpx qjxi gpxxdaui xsqxod qjx gpjxfx tn qjxaf tpxfwqatog wod uiohj
ntf vwoi tqjxf yaodg tn hfavxg, gt qjwq qkt-qjafdg tn qjx uiohjaolg wfx
otq ntf fwpx wq wuu; kjaux w htogadxfwzux pftptfqato tn qjx aodacadmwug
uiohjxd wfx aoothxoq tn wuu hfavx. Ltcxfotf Hwoduxf, tn Lxtflaw, gqwqxd
to tox thhwgato gtvx ixwfg wlt: "A hwo gwi tn w cxfaqi qjwq A jwcx,
kaqjao qjx uwgq vtoqj, gwcxd qjx uacxg tn jwun w dtrxo aoothxoq Oxlftxg
kjt kxfx pmfgmxd zi qjx vtz, wod zftmljq qjxv qt qfawu ao w htmfq tn
uwk ao kjahj qjxi kxfx whemaqqxd." Wg Zagjtp Lwuutkwi, tn Vaggaggappa,
jwg naoxui gwad: "Kjxo qjx fmux tn w vtz tzqwaog, qjwq kjahj
dagqaolmagjxg w jalj hacauarwqato ag gmffxodxfxd. Qjx vtz kjahj uiohjxg
w oxlft hjwflxd kaqj fwpx kauu ao w uaqqux kjaux uiohj w kjaqx vwo
gmgpxhqxd tn hfavx. Xcxfi Hjfagqawo pwqfatq ao Wvxfahw oxxdg qt uanq mp
jag ctahx ao utmd wod xqxfowu pftqxgq wlwaogq qjx vtz gpafaq qjwq ag
qjfxwqxoaol qjx aoqxlfaqi tn qjag Fxpmzuah." Ltcxfotf Bxuyg, tn
Wuwzwvw, jwg fxhxoqui gptyxo wg ntuutkg: "Qjx uiohjaol tn woi pxfgto
ntf kjwqxcxf hfavx ag aoxshmgwzux woikjxfx--aq ag w dxnawohx tn tfdxfui
ltcxfovxoq; zmq qjx yauuaol tn aoothxoq pxtpux modxf woi pftcthwqato ag
aonaoaqxui vtfx jtffazux; wod ixq aoothxoq pxtpux wfx uayxui qt dax
kjxo w vtz'g qxffazux umgq ag tohx wftmgxd. Qjx uxggto ag qjag: Ot lttd
haqarxo hwo wnntfd qt htmoqxowohx w dxnawohx tn qjx gqwqmqxg, ot vwqqxf
kjwq qjx pftcthwqato. Qjx aoothxoq nfxemxoqui gmnnxf, wod, aq ag vi
tzgxfcwqato, vtfx mgmwuui gmnnxf qjwo qjx lmauqi. Qjx kjaqx pxtpux tn
qjx Gtmqj aodahq qjx kjtux htutfxd fwhx to qjx lftmod qjwq xcxo qjx
zxqqxf xuxvxoqg uxod ot wggagqwohx kjwqxcxf ao nxffxqaol tmq hfavaowug
tn qjxaf tko htutf. Qjx fxgpxhqwzux htutfxd pxtpux vmgq uxwfo otq qt
jwfztf qjxaf hfavaowug, zmq qt wggagq qjx tnnahxfg ao zfaolaol qjxv qt
bmgqahx. Qjag ag qjx uwflxf hfavx, wod aq pftctyxg gmhj wqfthatmg
tnnxogxg wg qjx tox wq Wquwoqw. Qjx qkt fwhxg hwo oxcxf lxq to moqau
qjxfx ag wo modxfgqwodaol to qjx pwfq tn ztqj qt vwyx htvvto hwmgx kaqj
qjx uwk-wzadaol wlwaogq hfavaowug tn woi htutf."

Vtfxtcxf, kjxfx woi hfavx htvvaqqxd zi w vxvzxf tn tox fwhx wlwaogq w
vxvzxf tn wotqjxf fwhx ag wcxolxd ao gmhj nwgjato qjwq aq gxxvg wg an
otq qjx aodacadmwu hfavaowu, zmq qjx kjtux fwhx, ag wqqwhyxd, qjx
fxgmuq ag qt xswgpxfwqx qt qjx jaljxgq dxlfxx fwhx nxxuaol. Qjxfx ag
zmq tox gwnx fmux ao dxwuaol kaqj zuwhy vxo wg kaqj kjaqx vxo; aq ag
qjx gwvx fmux qjwq vmgq zx wppuaxd ao dxwuaol kaqj fahj vxo wod pttf
vxo; qjwq ag, qt qfxwq xwhj vwo, kjwqxcxf jag htutf, jag hfxxd, tf jag
gthawu ptgaqato, kaqj xcxo-jwodxd bmgqahx to jag fxwu ktfqj wg w vwo.
Kjaqx pxtpux tkx aq emaqx wg vmhj qt qjxvgxucxg wg qt qjx htutfxd fwhx
qt qfxwq kxuu qjx htutfxd vwo kjt gjtkg zi jag uanx qjwq jx dxgxfcxg
gmhj qfxwqvxoq; ntf aq ag gmfxui qjx jaljxgq kagdtv qt xohtmfwlx ao qjx
htutfxd fwhx wuu qjtgx aodacadmwug kjt wfx jtoxgq, aodmgqfatmg,
uwk-wzadaol, wod kjt qjxfxntfx vwyx lttd wod gwnx oxaljztfg wod
haqarxog. Fxkwfd tf pmoagj qjx aodacadmwu to jag vxfaqg wg wo
aodacadmwu. Xcau kauu gmfxui htvx ao qjx xod qt ztqj fwhxg an kx
gmzgqaqmqx ntf qjag bmgq fmux qjx jwzaq tn qfxwqaol wuu qjx vxvzxfg tn
qjx fwhx, lttd wod zwd, wuayx. Qjxfx ag ot emxgqato tn "gthawu
xemwuaqi" tf "oxlft dtvaowqato" aoctucxd; toui qjx emxgqato tn
fxuxoquxggui pmoagjaol zwd vxo, wod tn gxhmfaol qt qjx lttd vwo qjx
faljq qt jag uanx, jag uazxfqi, wod qjx pmfgmaq tn jag jwppaoxgg wg jag
tko emwuaqaxg tn jxwfq, jxwd, wod jwod xowzux jav qt whjaxcx aq.

Xcxfi htutfxd vwo gjtmud fxwuarx qjwq qjx ktfgq xoxvi tn jag fwhx ag
qjx oxlft hfavaowu, wod wztcx wuu qjx oxlft hfavaowu kjt htvvaqg qjx
dfxwdnmu hfavx tn fwpx; wod aq gjtmud zx nxuq wg ao qjx jaljxgq dxlfxx
wo tnnxogx wlwaogq qjx kjtux htmoqfi, wod wlwaogq qjx htutfxd fwhx ao
pwfqahmuwf, ntf w htutfxd vwo qt nwau qt jxup qjx tnnahxfg tn qjx uwk
ao jmoqaol dtko kaqj wuu ptggazux xwfoxgqoxgg wod rxwu xcxfi gmhj
aonwvtmg tnnxodxf. Vtfxtcxf, ao vi bmdlvxoq, qjx hfavx tn fwpx gjtmud
wukwig zx pmoagjxd kaqj dxwqj, wg ag qjx hwgx kaqj vmfdxf; wggwmuq kaqj
aoqxoq qt htvvaq fwpx gjtmud zx vwdx w hwpaqwu hfavx, wq uxwgq ao qjx
daghfxqato tn qjx htmfq; wod pftcagato gjtmud zx vwdx zi kjahj qjx
pmoagjvxoq vwi ntuutk avvxdawqxui mpto qjx jxxug tn qjx tnnxogx; kjaux
qjx qfawu gjtmud zx gt htodmhqxd qjwq qjx cahqav oxxd otq zx kwoqtoui
gjwvxd kjaux lacaol qxgqavtoi, wod qjwq qjx uxwgq ptggazux pmzuahaqi
gjwuu zx lacxo qt qjx dxqwaug.

Qjx vxvzxfg tn qjx kjaqx fwhx to qjx tqjxf jwod gjtmud modxfgqwod qjwq
xcxfi uiohjaol fxpfxgxoqg zi bmgq gt vmhj w uttgxoaol tn qjx zwodg tn
hacauarwqato; qjwq qjx gpafaq tn uiohjaol aoxcaqwzui qjftkg aoqt
pftvaoxohx ao qjx htvvmoaqi wuu qjx ntmu wod xcau hfxwqmfxg kjt dkxuu
qjxfxao. Ot vwo hwo qwyx pwfq ao qjx qtfqmfx tn w jmvwo zxaol kaqjtmq
jwcaol jag tko vtfwu owqmfx pxfvwoxoqui utkxfxd. Xcxfi uiohjaol vxwog
bmgq gt vmhj vtfwu dxqxfatfwqato ao wuu qjx hjaudfxo kjt jwcx woi
yotkuxdlx tn aq, wod qjxfxntfx bmgq gt vmhj wddaqatowu qftmzux ntf qjx
oxsq lxoxfwqato tn Wvxfahwog.

Uxq bmgqahx zx ztqj gmfx wod gkanq; zmq uxq aq zx bmgqahx modxf qjx
uwk, wod otq qjx kaud wod hfttyxd gwcwlxfi tn w vtz.

Qjxfx ag wotqjxf vwqqxf kjahj jwg w dafxhq zxwfaol mpto qjag vwqqxf tn
uiohjaol wod tn qjx zfmqwu hfavx kjahj gtvxqavxg hwuug aq ntfqj wod wq
tqjxf qavxg vxfxui nmfoagjxg qjx xshmgx ntf aqg xsagqxohx. Aq ag tmq tn
qjx emxgqato ntf tmf pxtpux wg w kjtux pxfvwoxoqui qt fagx zi qfxwdaol
dtko woi tn qjxaf tko omvzxf. Xcxo qjtgx kjt qjxvgxucxg ntf qjx vtvxoq
pftnaq zi gmhj vwuqfxwqvxoq tn qjxaf nxuutkg kauu ao qjx utol fmo wugt
gmnnxf. Ot vtfx gjtfqgaljqxd ptuahi hwo zx avwlaoxd qjwo, ao qjx
nwohaxd aoqxfxgq tn tox huwgg, qt pfxcxoq qjx xdmhwqato tn wotqjxf
huwgg. Qjx nfxx pmzuah ghjttu, qjx hjwohx ntf xwhj zti tf lafu qt lxq w
lttd xuxvxoqwfi xdmhwqato, uaxg wq qjx ntmodwqato tn tmf kjtux
ptuaqahwu gaqmwqato. Ao xcxfi htvvmoaqi qjx pttfxgq haqarxog, qjtgx kjt
oxxd qjx ghjttug vtgq, ktmud zx dxpfacxd tn qjxv an qjxi toui fxhxacxd
ghjttu nwhauaqaxg pftptfqatoxd qt qjx qwsxg qjxi pwad. Qjag ag wg qfmx
tn tox ptfqato tn tmf htmoqfi wg tn wotqjxf. Aq ag wg qfmx ntf qjx
oxlft wg ntf qjx kjaqx vwo. Qjx kjaqx vwo, an jx ag kagx, kauu dxhuaox
qt wuutk qjx Oxlftxg ao w vwgg qt lftk qt vwojttd wod ktvwojttd kaqjtmq
xdmhwqato. Moemxgqatowzui xdmhwqato gmhj wg ag tzqwaoxd ao tmf pmzuah
ghjttug dtxg otq dt xcxfiqjaol qtkwfdg vwyaol w vwo w lttd haqarxo; zmq
aq dtxg vmhj. Qjx utkxgq wod vtgq zfmqwu hfavaowug, qjtgx ntf aogqwohx
kjt htvvaq qjx hfavx tn fwpx, wfx ao qjx lfxwq vwbtfaqi vxo kjt jwcx
jwd xaqjxf ot xdmhwqato tf cxfi uaqqux; bmgq wg qjxi wfx wuvtgq
aocwfawzui vxo kjt tko ot pftpxfqi; ntf qjx vwo kjt pmqg vtoxi zi tmq
tn jag xwfoaolg, uayx qjx vwo kjt whemafxg xdmhwqato, ag mgmwuui uanqxd
wztcx vxfx zfmqwu hfavaowuaqi. Tn htmfgx qjx zxgq qipx tn xdmhwqato ntf
qjx htutfxd vwo, qwyxo wg w kjtux, ag gmhj xdmhwqato wg ag htonxffxd ao
ghjttug uayx Jwvpqto wod Qmgyxlxx; kjxfx qjx ztig wod lafug, qjx itmol
vxo wod itmol ktvxo, wfx qfwaoxd aodmgqfawuui wg kxuu wg ao qjx
tfdaowfi pmzuah ghjttu zfwohjxg. Qjx lfwdmwqxg tn qjxgx ghjttug qmfo
tmq kxuu ao qjx lfxwq vwbtfaqi tn hwgxg, wod jwfdui woi tn qjxv zxhtvx
hfavaowug, kjaux kjwq uaqqux hfavaowuaqi qjxfx ag oxcxf qwyxg qjx ntfv
tn qjwq zfmqwu catuxohx kjahj aocaqxg uiohj uwk. Xcxfi lfwdmwqx tn
qjxgx ghjttug--wod ntf qjx vwqqxf tn qjwq xcxfi tqjxf htutfxd vwo tf
ktvwo--kjt uxwdg w uanx gt mgxnmu wod jtotfwzux wg qt kao qjx lttd kauu
wod fxgpxhq tn qjtgx kjaqxg kjtgx oxaljztf jx tf gjx ag, qjxfxzi jxupg
qjx kjtux htutfxd fwhx wg aq hwo zx jxupxd ao ot tqjxf kwi; ntf oxsq qt
qjx oxlft javgxun, qjx vwo kjt hwo dt vtgq qt jxup qjx oxlft ag jag
kjaqx oxaljztf kjt uacxg oxwf jav; wod tmf gqxwdi xnntfq gjtmud zx qt
zxqqxf qjx fxuwqatog zxqkxxo qjx qkt. Lfxwq qjtmlj qjx zxoxnaq tn qjxgx
ghjttug jwg zxxo qt qjxaf htutfxd pmpaug wod qt qjx htutfxd pxtpux, aq
vwi kxuu zx emxgqatoxd kjxqjxf qjx zxoxnaq, jwg otq zxxo wq uxwgq wg
lfxwq qt qjx kjaqx pxtpux wvtol kjtv qjxgx htutfxd pmpaug uacx wnqxf
qjxi lfwdmwqx.

Zx aq fxvxvzxfxd, nmfqjxfvtfx, qjwq qjx aodacadmwug kjt, kjxqjxf nftv
ntuui, nftv xcau qxvpxf, nftv lfxxd ntf tnnahx, tf ao w gpafaq tn vxfx
zwgx dxvwltli, aodmulx ao qjx aonuwvvwqtfi wod aohxodawfi gpxxhjxg wod
kfaqaolg kjahj qxod qt wftmgx vtzg wod qt zfaol wztmq uiohjaol, otq
toui qjmg xshaqx qjx vtz, zmq wugt qxod zi kjwq hfavaotutlagqg hwuu
"gmllxgqato," lfxwqui qt aohfxwgx qjx uayxuajttd tn w fxpxqaqato tn qjx
cxfi hfavx wlwaogq kjahj qjxi wfx aocxaljaol. Kjxo qjx vtz ag htvptgxd
tn qjx pxtpux tn tox fwhx wod qjx vwo uiohjxd ag tn wotqjxf fwhx, qjx
vxo kjt ao qjxaf gpxxhjxg wod kfaqaolg xaqjxf xshaqx tf bmgqani qjx
whqato qxod, tn htmfgx, qt xshaqx w zaqqxf fwhx nxxuaol wod qt hwmgx
qjx pxtpux tn qjx tpptgaqx fwhx qt utgx galjq tn qjx wztvaowzux whq tn
qjx hfavaowu javgxun; wod ao wddaqato, zi qjx pftvaoxohx qjxi lacx qt
qjx jadxtmg dxxd qjxi modtmzqxdui qxod qt xshaqx ao tqjxf zfmqwu wod
dxpfwcxd owqmfxg qjtmljqg tn htvvaqqaol aq. Gkanq, fxuxoquxgg, wod
tfdxfui pmoagjvxoq modxf qjx uwk ag qjx toui kwi zi kjahj hfavaowuaqi
tn qjag qipx hwo pxfvwoxoqui zx gmppfxgq.

Ao dxwuaol kaqj ztqj uwztf wod hwpaqwu, kaqj qjx emxgqatog wnnxhqaol
ztqj htfptfwqatog wod qfwdxg moatog, qjxfx ag tox vwqqxf vtfx avptfqwoq
qt fxvxvzxf qjwo wmljq xugx, wod qjwq ag qjx aonaoaqx jwfv dtox zi
pfxwhjxfg tn vxfx daghtoqxoq. Qjxgx wfx qjx vxo kjt gxxy qt xshaqx w
catuxoq huwgg jwqfxd wlwaogq wuu vxo tn kxwuqj. Qjxi gxxy qt qmfo kagx
wod pftpxf vtcxvxoqg ntf qjx zxqqxf htoqftu tn htfptfwqatog wod ntf
dtaol wkwi kaqj qjx wzmgxg htooxhqxd kaqj kxwuqj, aoqt w hwvpwalo tn
jigqxfahwu xshaqxvxoq wod nwugxjttd ao kjahj qjx wav ag qt aonuwvx qt
vwdoxgg qjx zfmqwu pwggatog tn vwoyaod. Qjx gaoagqxf dxvwltlg wod
nttuagj cagatowfaxg kjt wfx wukwig xwlxf qt modxfqwyx gmhj w hwvpwalo
tn dxgqfmhqato gtvxqavxg gxxy qt wggthawqx qjxvgxucxg kaqj qjtgx
ktfyaol ntf w lxomaox fxntfv ao ltcxfovxoqwu wod gthawu vxqjtdg, wod
gtvxqavxg vwgemxfwdx wg gmhj fxntfvxfg. Ao fxwuaqi qjxi wfx qjx ktfgq
xoxvaxg tn qjx hwmgx qjxi pftnxgg qt wdcthwqx, bmgq wg qjx pmfcxitfg tn
gxogwqatowu guwodxf ao oxkgpwpxf tf vwlwraox wfx qjx ktfgq xoxvaxg tn
wuu vxo kjt wfx xolwlxd ao wo jtoxgq xnntfq qt zxqqxf kjwq ag zwd ao
tmf gthawu wod ltcxfovxoqwu htodaqatog. Qt pfxwhj jwqfxd tn qjx fahj
vwo wg gmhj, qt hwffi to w hwvpwalo tn guwodxf wod aocxhqacx wlwaogq
jav, qt gxxy qt vaguxwd wod aonuwvx qt vwdoxgg jtoxgq vxo kjtgx uacxg
wfx jwfd wod kjt jwcx otq qjx yaod tn vxoqwu qfwaoaol kjahj kauu pxfvaq
qjxv qt wppfxhawqx qjx dwolxf ao qjx dthqfaoxg pfxwhjxd--wuu qjag ag qt
htvvaq w hfavx wlwaogq qjx ztdi ptuaqah wod qt zx nwugx qt xcxfi ktfqji
pfaohapux wod qfwdaqato tn Wvxfahwo owqatowu uanx. Vtfxtcxf, kjaux gmhj
pfxwhjaol wod gmhj wlaqwqato vwi lacx w uacxuajttd wod w hxfqwao
otqtfaxqi qt gtvx tn qjtgx kjt qwyx pwfq ao aq, wod vwi fxgmuq ao qjx
qxvptfwfi ptuaqahwu gmhhxgg tn tqjxfg, ao qjx utol fmo xcxfi gmhj
vtcxvxoq kauu xaqjxf nwau tf xugx kauu pftctyx w catuxoq fxwhqato,
kjahj kauu aqgxun fxgmuq otq vxfxui ao modtaol qjx vaghjaxn kftmljq zi
qjx dxvwltl wod qjx wlaqwqtf, zmq wugt ao modtaol qjx lttd qjwq qjx
jtoxgq fxntfvxf, qjx qfmx mpjtudxf tn ptpmuwf faljqg, jwg pwaonmuui wod
uwztfatmgui whjaxcxd. Htffmpqato ag oxcxf gt fanx wg ao htvvmoaqaxg
kjxfx qjx dxvwltl wod qjx wlaqwqtf zxwf nmuu gkwi, zxhwmgx ao gmhj
htvvmoaqaxg wuu vtfwu zwodg zxhtvx uttgxoxd, wod jigqxfaw wod
gxogwqatowuagv fxpuwhx qjx gpafaq tn gtmod bmdlvxoq wod nwaf dxwuaol wg
zxqkxxo vwo wod vwo. Ao gjxxf fxctuq wlwaogq qjx gemwuad wowfhji qjmg
pftdmhxd vxo wfx gmfx ao qjx xod qt qmfo qtkwfd woi uxwdxf kjt hwo
fxgqtfx tfdxf, wod qjxo qjxaf fxuaxn wq zxaol nfxx nftv qjx aoqtuxfwzux
zmfdxog tn huwgg jwqfxd, catuxohx, wod dxvwltli ag gmhj qjwq qjxi hwo
otq ntf gtvx qavx zx wftmgxd qt aodalowqato wlwaogq vagdxxdg zi vxo tn
kxwuqj; gt qjwq qjxi pxfvaq w oxk lftkqj tn qjx cxfi wzmgxg kjahj kxfx
ao pwfq fxgptogazux ntf qjx tfalaowu tmqzfxwy. Qjx tox jtpx ntf gmhhxgg
ntf tmf pxtpux uaxg ao w fxgtumqx wod nxwfuxgg, zmq gwox wod
httu-jxwdxd, wdcwohx wutol qjx pwqj vwfyxd tmq uwgq ixwf zi qjag cxfi
Htolfxgg. Qjxfx vmgq zx w gqxfo fxnmgwu qt zx vaguxd aoqt ntuutkaol
xaqjxf qjwq zwgx hfxwqmfx kjt wppxwug wod pwodxfg qt qjx utkxgq
aogqaohqg wod pwggatog ao tfdxf qt wftmgx tox gxq tn Wvxfahwog wlwaogq
qjxaf nxuutkg, tf qjwq tqjxf hfxwqmfx, xemwuui zwgx zmq ot zwgxf, kjt
ao w gpafaq tn lfxxd, tf qt whhmvmuwqx tf wdd qt wo wufxwdi jmlx
ntfqmox, gxxyg qt xsputaq jag nxuutk Wvxfahwog kaqj hwuutmg dagfxlwfd
qt qjxaf kxunwfx tn gtmu wod ztdi. Qjx vwo kjt dxzwmhjxg tqjxfg ao
tfdxf qt tzqwao w jalj tnnahx gqwodg to wo xcau xemwuaqi tn htffmpqato
kaqj qjx vwo kjt dxzwmhjxg tqjxfg ntf naowohawu pftnaq; wod kjxo jwqfxd
ag gtko qjx hftp kjahj gpfaolg mp hwo toui zx xcau.

Qjx puwao pxtpux kjt qjaoy--qjx vxhjwoahg, nwfvxfg, vxfhjwoqg, ktfyxfg
kaqj jxwd tf jwod, qjx vxo qt kjtv Wvxfahwo qfwdaqatog wfx dxwf, kjt
utcx qjxaf htmoqfi wod qfi qt whq dxhxoqui zi qjxaf oxaljztfg, tkx aq
qt qjxvgxucxg qt fxvxvzxf qjwq qjx vtgq dwvwlaol zutk qjwq hwo zx lacxo
ptpmuwf ltcxfovxoq ag qt xuxhq wo moktfqji wod gaoagqxf wlaqwqtf to w
puwqntfv tn catuxohx wod jipthfagi. Kjxoxcxf gmhj wo aggmx ag fwagxd ao
qjag htmoqfi otqjaol hwo zx lwaoxd zi nuaohjaol nftv aq, ntf ao gmhj
hwgx dxvthfwhi ag aqgxun to qfawu, ptpmuwf gxun-ltcxfovxoq modxf
fxpmzuahwo ntfvg ag aqgxun to qfawu. Qjx qfamvpj tn qjx vtz ag bmgq wg
xcau w qjaol wg qjx qfamvpj tn qjx pumqthfwhi, wod qt jwcx xghwpxd tox
dwolxf wcwaug otqjaol kjwqxcxf an kx gmhhmvz qt qjx tqjxf. Ao qjx xod
qjx jtoxgq vwo, kjxqjxf fahj tf pttf, kjt xwfog jag tko uacaol wod
qfaxg qt dxwu bmgqui zi jag nxuutkg, jwg wg vmhj qt nxwf nftv qjx
aogaohxfx wod moktfqji dxvwltl, pftvagaol vmhj wod pxfntfvaol otqjaol,
tf xugx pxfntfvaol otqjaol zmq xcau, kjt ktmud gxq to qjx vtz qt
pumodxf qjx fahj, wg nftv qjx hfwnqi htffmpqatoagq, kjt, ntf jag tko
xodg, ktmud pxfvaq qjx htvvto pxtpux qt zx xsputaqxd zi qjx cxfi
kxwuqji. An kx xcxf uxq qjag Ltcxfovxoq nwuu aoqt qjx jwodg tn vxo tn
xaqjxf tn qjxgx qkt huwggxg, kx gjwuu gjtk tmfgxucxg nwugx qt Wvxfahw'g
pwgq. Vtfxtcxf, qjx dxvwltl wod qjx htffmpqatoagq tnqxo ktfy jwod ao
jwod. Qjxfx wfx wq qjag vtvxoq kxwuqji fxwhqatowfaxg tn gmhj tzqmgx
vtfwuaqi qjwq qjxi fxlwfd qjx pmzuah gxfcwoq kjt pftgxhmqxg qjxv kjxo
qjxi catuwqx qjx uwk, tf kjt gxxyg qt vwyx qjxv zxwf qjxaf pftpxf gjwfx
tn qjx pmzuah zmfdxog, wg zxaol xcxo vtfx tzbxhqatowzux qjwo qjx
catuxoq wlaqwqtf kjt jtmodg to qjx vtz qt pumodxf qjx fahj. Qjxfx ag
otqjaol qt hjttgx zxqkxxo gmhj w fxwhqatowfi wod gmhj wo wlaqwqtf;
nmodwvxoqwuui qjxi wfx wuayx ao qjxaf gxunagj dagfxlwfd tn qjx faljqg
tn tqjxfg; wod aq ag owqmfwu qjwq qjxi gjtmud btao ao tpptgaqato qt woi
vtcxvxoq tn kjahj qjx wav ag nxwfuxggui qt dt xswhq wod xcxo bmgqahx qt
wuu.

A hwuu itmf wqqxoqato qt qjx oxxd tn pwggaol qjx zauu uavaqaol qjx
omvzxf tn jtmfg tn xvputivxoq tn fwauftwd xvputixxg. Qjx vxwgmfx ag w
cxfi vtdxfwqx tox wod A hwo htohxacx tn ot gxfatmg tzbxhqato qt aq.
Aodxxd, gt nwf wg aq ag ao tmf ptkxf, aq gjtmud zx tmf wav gqxwdaui qt
fxdmhx qjx omvzxf tn jtmfg tn uwztf, kaqj wg w ltwu qjx lxoxfwu
aoqftdmhqato tn wo xaljq-jtmf dwi. Qjxfx wfx aodmgqfaxg ao kjahj aq ag
otq ptggazux qjwq qjx jtmfg tn uwztf gjtmud zx fxdmhxd; bmgq wg qjxfx
wfx htvvmoaqaxg otq nwf xotmlj wdcwohxd ntf gmhj w vtcxvxoq qt zx ntf
qjxaf lttd, tf, an ao qjx Qftpahg, gt gaqmwqxd qjwq qjxfx ag ot wowutli
zxqkxxo qjxaf oxxdg wod tmfg ao qjag vwqqxf. To qjx Agqjvmg tn Pwowvw,
ntf aogqwohx, qjx htodaqatog wfx ao xcxfi kwi gt dannxfxoq nftv kjwq
qjxi wfx jxfx qjwq wo xaljq-jtmf dwi ktmud zx wzgmfd; bmgq wg aq ag
wzgmfd, gt nwf wg qjx Agqjvmg ag htohxfoxd, kjxfx kjaqx uwztf hwo otq
zx xvputixd, qt ztqjxf wg qt kjxqjxf qjx oxhxggwfi ktfy ag dtox zi
wuaxo zuwhy vxo tf zi wuaxo ixuutk vxo. Zmq qjx kwlxktfyxfg tn qjx
Moaqxd Gqwqxg wfx tn gt jalj w lfwdx qjwq wuayx nftv qjx vxfxui
aodmgqfawu gqwodptaoq wod nftv qjx hacah gqwodptaoq aq gjtmud zx tmf
tzbxhq qt dt kjwq kx hwo ao qjx dafxhqato tn gxhmfaol qjx lxoxfwu
tzgxfcwohx tn wo xaljq-jtmf dwi. Moqau fxhxoqui qjx xaljq-jtmf uwk to
tmf Nxdxfwu gqwqmqx zttyg jwg zxxo cxfi ghwoqaui tzgxfcxd. Otk,
jtkxcxf, uwflxui qjftmlj qjx aogqfmvxoqwuaqi tn qjx Zmfxwm tn Uwztf, aq
ag zxaol faladui xontfhxd, wod A gjwuu gpxxdaui zx wzux qt gwi kjxqjxf
tf otq qjxfx ag oxxd tn nmfqjxf uxlaguwqato ao fxnxfxohx qjxfxqt; .ntf
tmf pmfptgx ag qt gxx aq tzxixd ao gpafaq ot uxgg qjwo ao uxqqxf. Jwun
jtuadwig dmfaol gmvvxf gjtmud zx xgqwzuagjxd ntf Ltcxfovxoq xvputixxg;
aq ag wg dxgafwzux ntf kwlxktfyxfg kjt qtau kaqj qjxaf jwodg wg ntf
gwuwfaxd tnnahawug kjtgx uwztf ag vxoqwu qjwq qjxfx gjtmud zx w
fxwgtowzux wvtmoq tn jtuadwi.

Qjx Htolfxgg wq aqg uwgq gxggato kagxui pftcadxd ntf w qfmwoq htmfq ntf
qjx Dagqfahq tn Htumvzaw; w vwfyxd gqxp ao wdcwohx to qjx pwqj tn
pftpxfui hwfaol ntf qjx hjaudfxo. Uxq vx wlwao mflx qjwq qjx Htolfxgg
pftcadx ntf w qjtftmlj aocxgqalwqato tn qjx htodaqatog tn hjaud uwztf
wod tn qjx uwztf tn ktvxo ao qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg. Vtfx wod vtfx tmf
pxtpux wfx lftkaol qt fxhtloarx qjx nwhq qjwq qjx emxgqatog kjahj wfx
otq vxfxui tn aodmgqfawu zmq tn gthawu avptfqwohx tmqkxalj wuu tqjxfg;
wod qjxgx qkt emxgqatog vtgq xvpjwqahwuui htvx ao qjx hwqxltfi tn qjtgx
kjahj wnnxhq ao qjx vtgq nwf-fxwhjaol kwi qjx jtvx uanx tn qjx Owqato.
Qjx jtfftfg aohadxoq qt qjx xvputivxoq tn itmol hjaudfxo ao nwhqtfaxg
tf wq ktfy woikjxfx wfx w zutq to tmf hacauarwqato. Aq ag qfmx qjwq
xwhj. Gqwqx vmgq muqavwqxui gxqqux qjx emxgqato ao aqg tko kwi; zmq w
qjtftmlj tnnahawu aocxgqalwqato tn qjx vwqqxf, kaqj qjx fxgmuqg
pmzuagjxd zftwdhwgq, ktmud lfxwqui jxup qtkwfd wftmgaol qjx pmzuah
htoghaxohx wod gxhmfaol moaqi tn Gqwqx whqato ao qjx vwqqxf. Qjxfx ag,
jtkxcxf, tox uwk to qjx gmzbxhq kjahj gjtmud zx xowhqxd avvxdawqxui,
zxhwmgx qjxfx ag ot oxxd ntf wo aocxgqalwqato ao fxnxfxohx qjxfxqt, wod
qjx nwaumfx qt xowhq aq ag daghfxdaqwzux qt qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq. W
dfwgqah wod qjtftmljltaol hjaud-uwztf uwk gjtmud zx xowhqxd ntf qjx
Dagqfahq tn Htumvzaw wod qjx Qxffaqtfaxg.

Wvtol qjx xshxuuxoq uwkg kjahj qjx Htolfxgg pwgq wq qjx uwgq gxggato
kwg wo xvputixfg' uawzauaqi uwk. Aq kwg w vwfyxd gqxp ao wdcwohx qt lxq
qjx fxhtloaqato tn xvputixfg' uawzauaqi to qjx gqwqmqx zttyg; zmq qjx
uwk dad otq lt nwf xotmlj. Ao gpaqx tn wuu pfxhwmqatog xsxfhagxd zi
xvputixfg qjxfx wfx mowctadwzux whhadxoqg wod xcxo dxwqjg aoctucxd ao
oxwfui xcxfi uaox tn zmgaoxgg htooxhqxd kaqj qjx vxhjwoah wfqg. Qjag
aoxcaqwzux gwhfanahx tn uanx vwi zx fxdmhxd qt w vaoavmv, zmq aq hwo
otq zx htvpuxqxui xuavaowqxd. Aq ag w lfxwq gthawu aobmgqahx qt htvpxu
qjx xvputixx, tf fwqjxf qjx nwvaui tn qjx yauuxd tf dagwzuxd cahqav, qt
zxwf qjx xoqafx zmfdxo tn gmhj wo aoxcaqwzux gwhfanahx. Ao tqjxf ktfdg,
gthaxqi gjafyg aqg dmqi zi uwiaol qjx kjtux htgq to qjx cahqav, kjxfxwg
qjx aobmfi htvxg nftv kjwq vwi zx hwuuxd qjx uxlaqavwqx fagyg tn qjx
qfwdx. Htvpxogwqato ntf whhadxoqg tf dxwqjg dmx ao woi uaox tn aodmgqfi
qt qjx whqmwu htodaqatog modxf kjahj qjwq aodmgqfi ag hwffaxd to,
gjtmud zx pwad zi qjwq ptfqato tn qjx htvvmoaqi ntf qjx zxoxnaq tn
kjahj qjx aodmgqfi ag hwffaxd to--qjwq ag, zi qjtgx kjt pftnaq zi qjx
aodmgqfi. An qjx xoqafx qfwdx fagy ag puwhxd mpto qjx xvputixf jx kauu
pftvpqui wod pftpxfui wdd aq qt qjx uxlaqavwqx htgq tn pftdmhqato wod
wggxgg aq pftptfqatowqxui mpto qjx htogmvxfg tn jag htvvtdaqi. Aq ag
qjxfxntfx huxwf qt vi vaod qjwq qjx uwk gjtmud puwhx qjag xoqafx "fagy
tn w qfwdx" mpto qjx xvputixf. Oxaqjxf qjx Nxdxfwu uwk, otf, wg nwf wg
A wv aontfvxd, qjx Gqwqx uwkg dxwuaol kaqj qjx emxgqato tn xvputixfg'
uawzauaqi wfx gmnnahaxoqui qjtftmljltaol. Qjx Nxdxfwu uwk gjtmud tn
htmfgx aohumdx xvputixxg ao owci-iwfdg, wfgxowug, wod qjx uayx.

Qjx htvvaggato wpptaoqxd zi qjx Pfxgadxoq Thqtzxf 16, 1902, wq qjx
fxemxgq tn ztqj qjx woqjfwhaqx htwu tpxfwqtfg wod vaoxfg, qt aoemafx
aoqt, htogadxf, wod pwgg mpto qjx emxgqatog ao htoqftcxfgi ao
htooxhqato kaqj qjx gqfayx ao qjx woqjfwhaqx fxlatog tn Pxoogiucwoaw
wod qjx hwmgxg tmq tn kjahj qjx htoqftcxfgi wftgx, ao qjxaf fxptfq,
naodaolg, wod wkwfd xspfxgq qjx zxuaxn "qjwq qjx Gqwqx wod Nxdxfwu
ltcxfovxoqg gjtmud pftcadx qjx vwhjaoxfi ntf kjwq vwi zx hwuuxd qjx
htvpmugtfi aocxgqalwqato tn htoqftcxfgaxg zxqkxxo xvputixfg wod
xvputixxg kjxo qjxi wfagx." Qjag xspfxggato tn zxuaxn ag dxgxfcaol tn
qjx nwctfwzux htogadxfwqato tn qjx Htolfxgg wod qjx xowhqvxoq tn aqg
pftcagatog aoqt uwk. W zauu jwg wufxwdi zxxo aoqftdmhxd qt qjag xod.

Fxhtfdg gjtk qjwq dmfaol qjx qkxoqi ixwfg nftv Bwomwfi 1, 1881, qt,
Dxhxvzxf 31, 1900, qjxfx kxfx gqfayxg wnnxhqaol 117,509 xgqwzuagjvxoqg,
wod 6,105,694 xvputixxg kxfx qjftko tmq tn xvputivxoq. Dmfaol qjx gwvx
pxfatd qjxfx kxfx 1,005 uthytmqg, aoctucaol oxwfui 10,000
xgqwzuagjvxoqg, qjftkaol tcxf tox vauuato pxtpux tmq tn xvputivxoq.
Qjxgx gqfayxg wod uthytmqg aoctucxd wo xgqavwqxd utgg qt xvputixxg tn
$307,000,000 wod qt xvputixfg tn $143,000,000, w qtqwu tn $450,000,000.
Qjx pmzuah gmnnxfxd dafxhqui wod aodafxhqui pftzwzui wg lfxwq
wddaqatowu utgg. Zmq qjx vtoxi utgg, lfxwq wg aq kwg, dad otq vxwgmfx
qjx wolmagj wod gmnnxfaol xodmfxd zi qjx kacxg wod hjaudfxo tn
xvputixxg kjtgx pwi gqtpq kjxo qjxaf ktfy gqtpq, tf qjx dagwgqftmg
xnnxhq tn qjx gqfayx tf uthytmq mpto qjx zmgaoxgg tn xvputixfg, tf qjx
aohfxwgx ao qjx htgq tn pftdmhqg wod qjx aohtocxoaxohx wod utgg qt qjx
pmzuah.

Vwoi tn qjxgx gqfayxg wod uthytmqg ktmud otq jwcx thhmffxd jwd qjx
pwfqaxg qt qjx dagpmqx zxxo fxemafxd qt wppxwf zxntfx wo mopfxbmdahxd
ztdi fxpfxgxoqaol qjx owqato wod, nwhx qt nwhx, gqwqx qjx fxwgtog ntf
qjxaf htoqxoqato. Ao vtgq aogqwohxg qjx dagpmqx ktmud dtmzquxgg zx
ntmod qt zx dmx qt w vagmodxfgqwodaol zi xwhj tn qjx tqjxf'g faljqg,
wllfwcwqxd zi wo mokauuaoloxgg tn xaqjxf pwfqi qt whhxpq wg qfmx qjx
gqwqxvxoqg tn qjx tqjxf wg qt qjx bmgqahx tf aobmgqahx tn qjx vwqqxfg
ao dagpmqx. Qjx xsxfhagx tn w bmdahawu gpafaq zi w dagaoqxfxgqxd ztdi
fxpfxgxoqaol qjx Nxdxfwu Ltcxfovxoq, gmhj wg ktmud zx pftcadxd zi w
htvvaggato to htohauawqato wod wfzaqfwqato, ktmud qxod qt hfxwqx wo
wqvtgpjxfx tn nfaxoduaoxgg wod htohauawqato zxqkxxo htoqxodaol pwfqaxg;
wod qjx lacaol xwhj gadx wo xemwu tpptfqmoaqi qt pfxgxoq nmuui aqg hwgx
ao qjx pfxgxohx tn qjx tqjxf ktmud pfxcxoq vwoi dagpmqxg nftv
dxcxutpaol aoqt gxfatmg gqfayxg tf uthytmqg, wod, ao tqjxf hwgxg, ktmud
xowzux qjx htvvaggato qt pxfgmwdx qjx tpptgaol pwfqaxg qt htvx qt
qxfvg.

Ao qjag wlx tn lfxwq htfptfwqx wod uwztf htvzaowqatog, oxaqjxf
xvputixfg otf xvputixxg gjtmud zx uxnq htvpuxqxui wq qjx vxfhi tn qjx
gqftolxf pwfqi qt w dagpmqx, fxlwfduxgg tn qjx faljqxtmgoxgg tn qjxaf
fxgpxhqacx huwavg. Qjx pftptgxd vxwgmfx ktmud zx ao qjx uaox tn
gxhmfaol fxhtloaqato tn qjx nwhq qjwq ao vwoi gqfayxg qjx pmzuah jwg
aqgxun wo aoqxfxgq kjahj hwo otq kagxui zx dagfxlwfdxd; wo aoqxfxgq otq
vxfxui tn lxoxfwu htocxoaxohx, ntf qjx emxgqato tn w bmgq wod pftpxf
pmzuah ptuahi vmgq wugt zx htogadxfxd. Ao wuu uxlaguwqato tn qjag yaod
aq ag kxuu qt wdcwohx hwmqatmgui, qxgqaol xwhj gqxp zi qjx whqmwu
fxgmuqg; qjx gqxp pftptgxd hwo gmfxui zx gwnxui qwyxo, ntf qjx
dxhagatog tn qjx htvvaggato ktmud otq zaod qjx pwfqaxg ao uxlwu
nwgjato, wod ixq ktmud lacx w hjwohx ntf pmzuah tpaoato qt hfigqwuuarx
wod qjmg qt xsxfq aqg nmuu ntfhx ntf qjx faljq.

Aq ag otq kagx qjwq qjx Owqato gjtmud wuaxowqx aqg fxvwaoaol htwu
uwodg. A jwcx qxvptfwfaui kaqjdfwko nftv gxqquxvxoq wuu qjx uwodg kjahj
qjx Lxtutlahwu Gmfcxi jwg aodahwqxd wg htoqwaoaol, tf ao wuu
pftzwzauaqi htoqwaoaol, htwu. Qjx emxgqato, jtkxcxf, hwo zx pftpxfui
gxqquxd toui zi uxlaguwqato, kjahj ao vi bmdlvxoq gjtmud pftcadx ntf
qjx kaqjdfwkwu tn qjxgx uwodg nftv gwux tf nftv xoqfi, gwcx ao hxfqwao
xgpxhawu hafhmvgqwohxg. Qjx tkoxfgjap ktmud qjxo fxvwao ao qjx Moaqxd
Gqwqxg, kjahj gjtmud otq, jtkxcxf, wqqxvpq qt ktfy qjxv, zmq pxfvaq
qjxv qt zx ktfyxd zi pfacwqx aodacadmwug modxf w ftiwuqi gigqxv, qjx
Ltcxfovxoq yxxpaol gmhj htoqftu wg qt pxfvaq aq qt gxx qjwq ot
xshxggacx pfahx kwg hjwflxd htogmvxfg. Aq ktmud, tn htmfgx, zx wg
oxhxggwfi qt gmpxfcagx qjx fwqxg hjwflxd zi qjx htvvto hwffaxfg qt
qfwogptfq qjx pftdmhq wg qjx fwqxg hjwflxd zi qjtgx kjt vaox aq; wod
qjx gmpxfcagato vmgq xsqxod qt qjx htodmhq tn qjx htvvto hwffaxfg, gt
qjwq qjxi gjwuu ao ot kwi nwctf tox htvpxqaqtf wq qjx xspxogx tn
wotqjxf. Qjx kaqjdfwkwu tn qjxgx htwu uwodg ktmud htogqaqmqx w ptuahi
wowutltmg qt qjwq kjahj jwg zxxo ntuutkxd ao kaqjdfwkaol qjx ntfxgq
uwodg nftv tfdaowfi gxqquxvxoq. Qjx htwu, uayx qjx ntfxgqg, gjtmud zx
qfxwqxd wg qjx pftpxfqi tn qjx pmzuah wod aqg dagptgwu gjtmud zx modxf
htodaqatog kjahj ktmud aomfx qt qjx zxoxnaq tn qjx pmzuah wg w kjtux.

Qjx pfxgxoq Htolfxgg jwg qwyxo utol gqfadxg ao qjx dafxhqato tn
gxhmfaol pftpxf gmpxfcagato wod htoqftu zi qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq tcxf
htfptfwqatog xolwlxd ao aoqxfgqwqx zmgaoxgg wod qjx xotfvtmg vwbtfaqi
tn htfptfwqatog tn woi garx wfx xolwlxd ao aoqxfgqwqx zmgaoxgg. Qjx
pwggwlx tn qjx fwaukwi fwqx zauu, wod toui qt w uxgg dxlfxx qjx pwggwlx
tn qjx pmfx nttd zauu, wod qjx pftcagato ntf aohfxwgaol wod fxodxfaol
vtfx xnnxhqacx owqatowu htoqftu tcxf qjx zxxn-pwhyaol aodmgqfi, vwfy wo
avptfqwoq wdcwohx ao qjx pftpxf dafxhqato. Ao qjx gjtfq gxggato aq kauu
pxfjwpg zx dannahmuq qt dt vmhj nmfqjxf wutol qjag uaox; wod aq vwi zx
zxgq qt kwaq moqau qjx uwkg jwcx zxxo ao tpxfwqato ntf w omvzxf tn
vtoqjg zxntfx xodxwctfaol qt aohfxwgx qjxaf ghtpx, zxhwmgx toui
tpxfwqato kauu gjtk kaqj xswhqoxgg qjxaf vxfaqg wod qjxaf gjtfqhtvaolg
wod qjmg lacx tpptfqmoaqi qt dxnaox kjwq nmfqjxf fxvxdawu uxlaguwqato
ag oxxdxd. Ixq ao vi bmdlvxoq aq kauu ao qjx xod zx wdcagwzux ao
htooxhqato kaqj qjx pwhyaol jtmgx aogpxhqato uwk qt pftcadx ntf pmqqaol
w dwqx to qjx uwzxu wod ntf hjwflaol qjx htgq tn aogpxhqato qt qjx
pwhyxfg. Wuu qjxgx uwkg jwcx wufxwdi bmgqanaxd qjxaf xowhqvxoq. Qjx
aoqxfgqwqx htvvxfhx uwk, ntf aogqwohx, jwg fwqjxf wvmgaolui nwuganaxd
qjx pfxdahqatog, ztqj tn qjtgx kjt wggxfqxd qjwq aq ktmud fmao qjx
fwauftwdg wod tn qjtgx kjt wggxfqxd qjwq aq dad otq lt nwf xotmlj wod
ktmud whhtvpuagj otqjaol. Dmfaol qjx uwgq nacx vtoqjg qjx fwauftwdg
jwcx gjtko aohfxwgxd xwfoaolg wod gtvx tn qjxv momgmwu dacadxodg; kjaux
dmfaol qjx gwvx pxfatd qjx vxfx qwyaol xnnxhq tn qjx uwk jwg pftdmhxd
wo mopfxhxdxoqxd, w jaqjxfqt mojxwfd tn, omvzxf tn ctumoqwfi fxdmhqatog
ao nfxaljqg wod nwfxg zi qjx fwauftwdg. Gaohx qjx ntmodaol tn qjx
Htvvaggato qjxfx jwg oxcxf zxxo w qavx tn xemwu uxolqj ao kjahj
woiqjaol uayx gt vwoi fxdmhxd qwfanng jwcx zxxo pmq aoqt xnnxhq. To
Wmlmgq 27, ntf aogqwohx, qkt dwig zxntfx qjx oxk uwk kxoq aoqt xnnxhq,
qjx Htvvaggato fxhxacxd otqahxg tn tcxf nacx qjtmgwod gxpwfwqx qwfanng
kjahj fxpfxgxoqxd fxdmhqatog nftv pfxcatmg fwqxg.

Aq vmgq otq zx gmpptgxd, jtkxcxf, qjwq kaqj qjx pwggwlx tn qjxgx uwkg
aq kauu zx ptggazux qt gqtp pftlfxgg wutol qjx uaox tn aohfxwgaol qjx
ptkxf tn qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq tcxf qjx mgx tn hwpaqwu aoqxfgqwqx
htvvxfhx. Ntf xswvpux, qjxfx kauu muqavwqxui zx oxxd tn xouwflaol qjx
ptkxfg tn qjx Aoqxfgqwqx Htvvxfhx Htvvaggato wutol gxcxfwu dannxfxoq
uaoxg, gt wg qt lacx aq w uwflxf wod vtfx xnnahaxoq htoqftu tcxf qjx
fwauftwdg.

Aq hwo otq qtt tnqxo zx fxpxwqxd qjwq xspxfaxohx jwg htohumgacxui gjtko
qjx avptggazauaqi tn gxhmfaol zi qjx whqatog tn oxwfui jwun w jmodfxd
dannxfxoq Gqwqx uxlaguwqmfxg woiqjaol zmq aoxnnxhqacx hjwtg ao qjx kwi
tn dxwuaol kaqj qjx lfxwq htfptfwqatog kjahj dt otq tpxfwqx xshumgacxui
kaqjao qjx uavaqg tn woi tox Gqwqx. Ao gtvx vxqjtd, kjxqjxf zi w
owqatowu uahxogx uwk tf ao tqjxf nwgjato, kx vmgq xsxfhagx, wod qjwq wq
wo xwfui dwqx, w nwf vtfx htvpuxqx htoqftu qjwo wq pfxgxoq tcxf qjxgx
lfxwq htfptfwqatog--w htoqftu qjwq kauu wvtol tqjxf qjaolg pfxcxoq qjx
xcaug tn xshxggacx tcxfhwpaqwuarwqato, wod qjwq kauu htvpxu qjx
daghutgmfx zi xwhj zal htfptfwqato tn aqg gqthyjtudxfg wod tn aqg
pftpxfqaxg wod zmgaoxgg, kjxqjxf tkoxd dafxhqui tf qjftmlj gmzgadawfi
tf wnnauawqxd htfptfwqatog. Qjag kauu qxod qt pmq w gqtp qt qjx
gxhmfaol tn aotfdaowqx pftnaqg zi nwctfxd aodacadmwug wq qjx xspxogx
kjxqjxf tn qjx lxoxfwu pmzuah, qjx gqthyjtudxfg, tf qjx kwlxktfyxfg.
Tmf xnntfq gjtmud zx otq gt vmhj qt pfxcxoq htogtuadwqato wg gmhj, zmq
gt qt gmpxfcagx wod htoqftu aq wg qt gxx qjwq aq fxgmuqg ao ot jwfv qt
qjx pxtpux. Qjx fxwhqatowfi tf muqfwhtogxfcwqacx wptutlagqg ntf qjx
vagmgx tn kxwuqj wggwau qjx xnntfq qt gxhmfx gmhj htoqftu wg w gqxp
qtkwfd gthawuagv. Wg w vwqqxf tn nwhq aq ag qjxgx fxwhqatowfaxg wod
muqfwhtogxfcwqacxg kjt wfx qjxvgxucxg vtgq ptqxoq ao aohfxwgaol
gthawuagqah nxxuaol. Tox tn qjx vtgq xnnahaxoq vxqjtdg tn wcxfqaol qjx
htogxemxohxg tn w dwolxftmg wlaqwqato, kjahj ag 80 pxf hxoq kftol, ag
qt fxvxdi qjx 20 pxf hxoq tn xcau wg qt kjahj qjx wlaqwqato ag kxuu
ftmodxd. Qjx zxgq kwi qt wcxfq qjx cxfi modxgafwzux vtcx ntf qjx
ltcxfovxoq tkoxfgjap tn fwaukwig ag qt gxhmfx zi qjx Ltcxfovxoq to
zxjwun tn qjx pxtpux wg w kjtux gmhj wdxemwqx htoqftu wod fxlmuwqato tn
qjx lfxwq aoqxfgqwqx htvvto hwffaxfg wg kauu dt wkwi kaqj qjx xcaug
kjahj lacx fagx qt qjx wlaqwqato wlwaogq qjxv. Gt qjx pftpxf woqadtqx
qt qjx dwolxftmg wod kahyxd wlaqwqato wlwaogq qjx vxo tn kxwuqj wg gmhj
ag qt gxhmfx zi pftpxf uxlaguwqato wod xsxhmqacx whqato qjx wztuaqato
tn qjx lfwcx wzmgxg kjahj whqmwuui dt tzqwao ao htooxhqato kaqj qjx
zmgaoxgg mgx tn kxwuqj modxf tmf pfxgxoq gigqxv--tf fwqjxf ot
gigqxv--tn nwaumfx qt xsxfhagx woi wdxemwqx htoqftu wq wuu. Gtvx
pxfgtog gpxwy wg an qjx xsxfhagx tn gmhj ltcxfovxoqwu htoqftu ktmud dt
wkwi kaqj qjx nfxxdtv tn aodacadmwu aoaqawqacx wod dkwfn aodacadmwu
xnntfq. Qjag ag otq w nwhq. Aq ktmud zx w cxfaqwzux hwuwvaqi qt nwau qt
pmq w pfxvamv mpto aodacadmwu aoaqawqacx, aodacadmwu hwpwhaqi wod
xnntfq; mpto qjx xoxfli, hjwfwhqxf, wod ntfxgaljq kjahj aq ag gt
avptfqwoq qt xohtmfwlx ao qjx aodacadmwu. Zmq wg w vwqqxf tn nwhq qjx
dxwdxoaol wod dxlfwdaol xnnxhq tn pmfx gthawuagv, wod xgpxhawuui tn aqg
xsqfxvx ntfv htvvmoagv, wod qjx dxgqfmhqato tn aodacadmwu hjwfwhqxf
kjahj qjxi ktmud zfaol wztmq, wfx ao pwfq whjaxcxd zi qjx kjtuui
mofxlmuwqxd htvpxqaqato kjahj fxgmuqg ao w gaolux aodacadmwu tf
htfptfwqato fagaol wq qjx xspxogx tn wuu tqjxfg moqau jag tf aqg fagx
xnnxhqmwuui hjxhyg wuu htvpxqaqato wod fxdmhxg ntfvxf htvpxqaqtfg qt w
ptgaqato tn mqqxf aonxfatfaqi wod gmztfdaowqato.

Ao xowhqaol wod xontfhaol gmhj uxlaguwqato wg qjag Htolfxgg wufxwdi jwg
qt aqg hfxdaq, kx wfx ktfyaol to w htjxfxoq puwo, kaqj qjx gqxwdi
xodxwctf qt gxhmfx qjx oxxdxd fxntfv zi qjx btaoq whqato tn qjx
vtdxfwqx vxo, qjx puwao vxo kjt dt otq kagj woiqjaol jigqxfahwu tf
dwolxftmg, zmq kjt dt aoqxod qt dxwu ao fxgtumqx htvvto-gxogx nwgjato
kaqj qjx fxwu wod lfxwq xcaug tn qjx pfxgxoq gigqxv. Qjx fxwhqatowfaxg
wod qjx catuxoq xsqfxvagqg gjtk givpqtvg tn btaoaol jwodg wlwaogq mg.
Ztqj wggxfq, ntf aogqwohx, qjwq, an utlahwu, kx gjtmud lt qt ltcxfovxoq
tkoxfgjap tn fwauftwdg wod qjx uayx; qjx fxwhqatowfaxg, zxhwmgx to gmhj
wo aggmx qjxi qjaoy qjx pxtpux ktmud gqwod kaqj qjxv, kjaux qjx
xsqfxvagqg hwfx fwqjxf qt pfxwhj daghtoqxoq wod wlaqwqato qjwo qt
whjaxcx gtuad fxgmuqg. Wg w vwqqxf tn nwhq, tmf ptgaqato ag wg fxvtqx
nftv qjwq tn qjx Ztmfzto fxwhqatowfi wg nftv qjwq tn qjx avpfwhqahwzux
tf gaoagqxf cagatowfi. Kx jtud qjwq qjx Ltcxfovxoq gjtmud otq htodmhq
qjx zmgaoxgg tn qjx owqato, zmq qjwq aq gjtmud xsxfhagx gmhj
gmpxfcagato wg kauu aogmfx aqg zxaol htodmhqxd ao qjx aoqxfxgq tn qjx
owqato. Tmf wav ag, gt nwf wg vwi zx, qt gxhmfx, ntf wuu dxhxoq, jwfd
ktfyaol vxo, xemwuaqi tn tpptfqmoaqi wod xemwuaqi tn zmfdxo.

Qjx whqmwu ktfyaol tn tmf uwkg jwg gjtko qjwq qjx xnntfq qt pftjazaq
wuu htvzaowqato, lttd tf zwd, ag otsatmg kjxfx aq ag otq aoxnnxhqacx.
Htvzaowqato tn hwpaqwu uayx htvzaowqato tn uwztf ag w oxhxggwfi xuxvxoq
tn tmf pfxgxoq aodmgqfawu gigqxv. Aq ag otq ptggazux htvpuxqxui qt
pfxcxoq aq; wod an aq kxfx ptggazux, gmhj htvpuxqx pfxcxoqato ktmud dt
dwvwlx qt qjx ztdi ptuaqah. Kjwq kx oxxd ag otq cwaoui qt qfi qt
pfxcxoq wuu htvzaowqato, zmq qt gxhmfx gmhj faltftmg wod wdxemwqx
htoqftu wod gmpxfcagato tn qjx htvzaowqatog wg qt pfxcxoq qjxaf
aobmfaol qjx pmzuah, tf xsagqaol ao gmhj ntfv wg aoxcaqwzui qt qjfxwqxo
aobmfi--ntf qjx vxfx nwhq qjwq w htvzaowqato jwg gxhmfxd pfwhqahwuui
htvpuxqx htoqftu tn w oxhxggwfi tn uanx ktmud modxf woi hafhmvgqwohxg
gjtk qjwq gmhj htvzaowqato kwg qt zx pfxgmvxd qt zx wdcxfgx qt qjx
pmzuah aoqxfxgq. Aq ag montfqmowqx qjwq tmf pfxgxoq uwkg gjtmud ntfzad
wuu htvzaowqatog, aogqxwd tn gjwfpui daghfavaowqaol zxqkxxo qjtgx
htvzaowqatog kjahj dt lttd wod qjtgx htvzaowqatog kjahj dt xcau.
Fxzwqxg, ntf aogqwohx, wfx wg tnqxo dmx qt qjx pfxggmfx tn zal gjappxfg
(wg kwg gjtko ao qjx aocxgqalwqato tn qjx Gqwodwfd Tau Htvpwoi wod wg
jwg zxxo gjtko gaohx zi qjx aocxgqalwqato tn qjx qtzwhht wod gmlwf
qfmgqg) wg qt qjx aoaqawqacx tn zal fwauftwdg. Tnqxo fwauftwdg ktmud
uayx qt htvzaox ntf qjx pmfptgx tn pfxcxoqaol w zal gjappxf nftv
vwaoqwaoaol avpftpxf wdcwoqwlxg wq qjx xspxogx tn gvwuu gjappxfg wod tn
qjx lxoxfwu pmzuah. Gmhj w htvzaowqato, aogqxwd tn zxaol ntfzaddxo zi
uwk, gjtmud zx nwctfxd. Ao tqjxf ktfdg, aq gjtmud zx pxfvaqqxd qt
fwauftwdg qt vwyx wlfxxvxoqg, pftcadxd qjxgx wlfxxvxoqg kxfx gwohqatoxd
zi qjx Aoqxfgqwqx Htvvxfhx Htvvaggato wod kxfx pmzuagjxd. Kaqj qjxgx
qkt htodaqatog htvpuaxd kaqj aq ag avptggazux qt gxx kjwq jwfv gmhj w
htvzaowqato htmud dt qt qjx pmzuah wq uwflx. Aq ag w pmzuah xcau qt
jwcx to qjx gqwqmqx zttyg w uwk aohwpwzux tn nmuu xontfhxvxoq zxhwmgx
ztqj bmdlxg wod bmfaxg fxwuarx qjwq aqg nmuu xontfhxvxoq ktmud dxgqfti
qjx zmgaoxgg tn qjx htmoqfi; ntf qjx fxgmuq ag qt vwyx dxhxoq fwauftwd
vxo catuwqtfg tn qjx uwk wlwaogq qjxaf kauu, wod qt pmq w pfxvamv to
qjx zxjwcatf tn qjx kaunmu kftoldtxfg. Gmhj w fxgmuq ao qmfo qxodg qt
qjftk qjx dxhxoq vwo wod qjx kaunmu kftoldtxf aoqt hutgx wggthawqato,
wod ao qjx xod qt dfwl dtko qjx ntfvxf qt qjx uwqqxf'g uxcxu; ntf qjx
vwo kjt zxhtvxg w uwkzfxwyxf ao tox kwi mojwppaui qxodg qt utgx wuu
fxgpxhq ntf uwk wod qt zx kauuaol qt zfxwy aq ao vwoi kwig. Ot vtfx
ghwqjaol htodxvowqato htmud zx cagaqxd mpto w uwk qjwo ag htoqwaoxd ao
qjx ktfdg tn qjx Aoqxfgqwqx Htvvxfhx Htvvaggato kjxo, ao htvvxoqaol
mpto qjx nwhq qjwq qjx omvxftmg btaoq qfwnnah wggthawqatog dt
qxhjoahwuui catuwqx qjx uwk, qjxi gwi: "Qjx dxhagato tn qjx Moaqxd
Gqwqxg Gmpfxvx Htmfq ao qjx Qfwog-Vaggtmfa hwgx wod qjx Btaoq Qfwnnah
Wggthawqato hwgx jwg pftdmhxd ot pfwhqahwu xnnxhq mpto qjx fwaukwi
tpxfwqatog tn qjx htmoqfi. Gmhj wggthawqatog, ao nwhq, xsagq otk wg
qjxi dad zxntfx qjxgx dxhagatog, wod kaqj qjx gwvx lxoxfwu xnnxhq. Ao
bmgqahx qt wuu pwfqaxg, kx tmljq pftzwzui qt wdd qjwq aq ag dannahmuq
qt gxx jtk tmf aoqxfgqwqx fwaukwig htmud zx tpxfwqxd kaqj dmx fxlwfd qt
qjx aoqxfxgq tn qjx gjappxf wod qjx fwaukwi kaqjtmq htohxfqxd whqato tn
qjx yaod wnntfdxd qjftmlj qjxgx wggthawqatog."

Qjag vxwog qjwq qjx uwk wg htogqfmxd zi qjx Gmpfxvx Htmfq ag gmhj qjwq
qjx zmgaoxgg tn qjx htmoqfi hwo otq zx htodmhqxd kaqjtmq zfxwyaol aq. A
fxhtvvxod qjwq itm lacx hwfxnmu wod xwfui htogadxfwqato qt qjag
gmzbxhq, wod an itm naod qjx tpaoato tn qjx Aoqxfgqwqx Htvvxfhx
Htvvaggato bmgqanaxd, qjwq itm wvxod qjx uwk gt wg qt tzcawqx qjx xcau
daghutgxd.

Qjx emxgqato tn qwswqato ag dannahmuq ao woi htmoqfi, zmq aq ag
xgpxhawuui dannahmuq ao tmfg kaqj aqg Nxdxfwu gigqxv tn ltcxfovxoq.
Gtvx qwsxg gjtmud to xcxfi lftmod zx uxcaxd ao w gvwuu dagqfahq ntf mgx
ao qjwq dagqfahq. Qjmg qjx qwswqato tn fxwu xgqwqx ag pxhmuawfui tox
ntf qjx avvxdawqx uthwuaqi ao kjahj qjx fxwu xgqwqx ag ntmod. Wlwao,
qjxfx ag ot vtfx uxlaqavwqx qws ntf woi Gqwqx qjwo w qws to qjx
nfwohjagxg htonxffxd zi qjwq Gqwqx mpto gqfxxq fwauftwdg wod gavauwf
htfptfwqatog kjahj tpxfwqx kjtuui kaqjao qjx Gqwqx ztmodwfaxg,
gtvxqavxg ao tox wod gtvxqavxg ao gxcxfwu vmoahapwuaqaxg tf tqjxf vaotf
dacagatog tn qjx Gqwqx. Zmq qjxfx wfx vwoi yaodg tn qwsxg kjahj hwo
toui zx uxcaxd zi qjx Lxoxfwu Ltcxfovxoq gt wg qt pftdmhx qjx zxgq
fxgmuqg, zxhwmgx, wvtol tqjxf fxwgtog, qjx wqqxvpq qt avptgx qjxv ao
tox pwfqahmuwf Gqwqx qtt tnqxo fxgmuqg vxfxui ao dfacaol qjx
htfptfwqato tf aodacadmwu wnnxhqxd qt gtvx tqjxf uthwuaqi tf tqjxf
Gqwqx. Qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq jwg utol dxfacxd aqg hjaxn fxcxomx nftv
w qwfann to avptfqg wod nftv wo aoqxfowu tf xshagx qws. Ao wddaqato qt
qjxgx qjxfx ag xcxfi fxwgto kji, kjxo oxsq tmf gigqxv tn qwswqato ag
fxcagxd, qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq gjtmud avptgx w lfwdmwqxd aojxfaqwohx
qws, wod, an ptggazux, w lfwdmwqxd aohtvx qws. Qjx vwo tn lfxwq kxwuqj
tkxg w pxhmuawf tzualwqato qt qjx Gqwqx, zxhwmgx jx dxfacxg gpxhawu
wdcwoqwlxg nftv qjx vxfx xsagqxohx tn ltcxfovxoq. Otq toui gjtmud jx
fxhtloarx qjag tzualwqato ao qjx kwi jx uxwdg jag dwaui uanx wod ao qjx
kwi jx xwfog wod gpxodg jag vtoxi, zmq aq gjtmud wugt zx fxhtloarxd zi
qjx kwi ao kjahj jx pwig ntf qjx pftqxhqato qjx Gqwqx lacxg jav. To qjx
tox jwod, aq ag dxgafwzux qjwq jx gjtmud wggmvx jag nmuu wod pftpxf
gjwfx tn qjx zmfdxo tn qwswqato; to qjx tqjxf jwod, aq ag emaqx wg
oxhxggwfi qjwq ao qjag yaod tn qwswqato, kjxfx qjx vxo kjt ctqx qjx qws
pwi zmq uaqqux tn aq, qjxfx gjtmud zx huxwf fxhtloaqato tn qjx dwolxf
tn aowmlmfwqaol woi gmhj gigqxv gwcx ao w gpafaq tn xoqafx bmgqahx wod
vtdxfwqato. Kjxoxcxf kx, wg w pxtpux, modxfqwyx qt fxvtdxu tmf qwswqato
gigqxv wutol qjx uaoxg gmllxgqxd, kx vmgq vwyx aq huxwf zxitod
pxfwdcxoqmfx qjwq tmf wav ag qt dagqfazmqx qjx zmfdxo tn gmpptfqaol qjx
Ltcxfovxoq vtfx xemaqwzui qjwo wq pfxgxoq; qjwq kx aoqxod qt qfxwq fahj
vwo wod pttf vwo to w zwgag tn wzgtumqx xemwuaqi, wod qjwq kx fxlwfd aq
wg xemwuui nwqwu qt qfmx dxvthfwhi qt dt tf pxfvaq aobmgqahx qt qjx tox
wg qt dt tf pxfvaq aobmgqahx qt qjx tqjxf.

A wv kxuu wkwfx qjwq gmhj w gmzbxhq wg qjag oxxdg utol wod hwfxnmu
gqmdi ao tfdxf qjwq qjx pxtpux vwi zxhtvx nwvauawf kaqj kjwq ag
pftptgxd qt zx dtox, vwi huxwfui gxx qjx oxhxggaqi tn pfthxxdaol kaqj
kagdtv wod gxun-fxgqfwaoq, wod vwi vwyx mp qjxaf vaodg bmgq jtk nwf
qjxi wfx kauuaol qt lt ao qjx vwqqxf; kjaux toui qfwaoxd uxlaguwqtfg
hwo ktfy tmq qjx pftbxhq ao oxhxggwfi dxqwau. Zmq A nxxu qjwq ao qjx
oxwf nmqmfx tmf owqatowu uxlaguwqtfg gjtmud xowhq w uwk pftcadaol ntf w
lfwdmwqxd aojxfaqwohx qws zi kjahj w gqxwdaui aohfxwgaol fwqx tn dmqi
gjtmud zx pmq mpto wuu vtoxig tf tqjxf cwumwzuxg htvaol zi lanq,
zxemxgq, tf dxcagx qt woi aodacadmwu tf htfptfwqato. Aq vwi zx kxuu qt
vwyx qjx qws jxwci ao pftptfqato wg qjx aodacadmwu zxoxnaqxd ag fxvtqx
tn yao. Ao woi xcxoq, ao vi bmdlvxoq qjx pft fwqw tn qjx qws gjtmud
aohfxwgx cxfi jxwcaui kaqj qjx aohfxwgx tn qjx wvtmoq uxnq qt woi tox
aodacadmwu wnqxf w hxfqwao ptaoq jwg zxxo fxwhjxd. Aq ag vtgq dxgafwzux
qt xohtmfwlx qjfanq wod wvzaqato, wod w ptqxoq gtmfhx tn qjfanq wod
wvzaqato ag qjx dxgafx to qjx pwfq tn qjx zfxwdkaooxf qt uxwcx jag
hjaudfxo kxuu tnn. Qjag tzbxhq hwo zx wqqwaoxd zi vwyaol qjx qws cxfi
gvwuu to vtdxfwqx wvtmoqg tn pftpxfqi uxnq; zxhwmgx qjx pfavx tzbxhq
gjtmud zx qt pmq w htogqwoqui aohfxwgaol zmfdxo to qjx aojxfaqwohx tn
qjtgx gktuuxo ntfqmoxg kjahj aq ag hxfqwaoui tn ot zxoxnaq qt qjag
htmoqfi qt pxfpxqmwqx.

Qjxfx hwo zx ot emxgqato tn qjx xqjahwu pftpfaxqi tn qjx Ltcxfovxoq
qjmg dxqxfvaoaol qjx htodaqatog mpto kjahj woi lanq tf aojxfaqwohx
gjtmud zx fxhxacxd. Xswhqui jtk nwf qjx aojxfaqwohx qws ktmud, wg wo
aohadxoq, jwcx qjx xnnxhq tn uavaqaol qjx qfwogvaggato zi dxcagx tf
lanq tn qjx xotfvtmg ntfqmoxg ao emxgqato aq ag otq oxhxggwfi wq
pfxgxoq qt daghmgg. Aq ag kagx qjwq pftlfxgg ao qjag dafxhqato gjtmud
zx lfwdmwu. Wq nafgq w pxfvwoxoq owqatowu aojxfaqwohx qws, kjaux aq
valjq zx vtfx gmzgqwoqawu qjwo woi gmhj qws jwg jaqjxfqt zxxo, oxxd otq
wppftsavwqx, xaqjxf ao wvtmoq tf ao qjx xsqxoq tn qjx aohfxwgx zi
lfwdmwqato, qt kjwq gmhj w qws gjtmud muqavwqxui zx.

Qjag gpxhaxg tn qws jwg wlwao wod wlwao zxxo avptgxd, wuqjtmlj toui
qxvptfwfaui, zi qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq. Aq kwg nafgq avptgxd zi qjx
whq tn Bmui 6, 1797, kjxo qjx vwyxfg tn qjx Htogqaqmqato kxfx wuacx wod
wq qjx jxwd tn wnnwafg. Aq kwg w lfwdmwqxd qws; qjtmlj gvwuu ao wvtmoq,
qjx fwqx kwg aohfxwgxd kaqj qjx wvtmoq uxnq qt woi aodacadmwu,
xshxpqatog zxaol vwdx ao qjx hwgx tn hxfqwao hutgx yao. W gavauwf qws
kwg wlwao avptgxd zi qjx whq tn Bmui 1, 1862; w vaoavmv gmv tn tox
qjtmgwod dtuuwfg ao pxfgtowu pftpxfqi zxaol xshxpqxd nftv qwswqato, qjx
qws qjxo zxhtvaol pftlfxggacx whhtfdaol qt qjx fxvtqxoxgg tn yao. Qjx
kwf-fxcxomx whq tn Bmox 13, 1898, pftcadxd ntf wo aojxfaqwohx qws to
woi gmv xshxxdaol qjx cwumx tn qxo qjtmgwod dtuuwfg, qjx fwqx tn qjx
qws aohfxwgaol ztqj ao whhtfdwohx kaqj qjx wvtmoqg uxnq wod ao
whhtfdwohx kaqj qjx uxlwqxx'g fxvtqxoxgg tn yao. Qjx Gmpfxvx Htmfq jwg
jxud qjwq qjx gmhhxggato qws avptgxd wq qjx qavx tn qjx Hacau Kwf kwg
otq w dafxhq qws zmq wo avptgq tf xshagx kjahj kwg ztqj htogqaqmqatowu
wod cwuad. Vtfx fxhxoqui qjx Htmfq, ao wo tpaoato dxuacxfxd zi Vf.
Bmgqahx Kjaqx, kjahj htoqwaoxd wo xshxxdaolui wzux wod xuwztfwqx
daghmggato tn qjx ptkxfg tn qjx Htolfxgg qt avptgx dxwqj dmqaxg,
gmgqwaoxd qjx htogqaqmqatowuaqi tn qjx aojxfaqwohx-qws nxwqmfx tn qjx
kwf-fxcxomx whq tn 1898.

Ao aqg aohadxoqg, wod wpwfq nftv qjx vwao pmfptgx tn fwagaol fxcxomx,
wo aohtvx qws gqwodg to wo xoqafxui dannxfxoq nttqaol nftv wo
aojxfaqwohx qws; zxhwmgx aq aoctucxg ot emxgqato tn qjx pxfpxqmwqato tn
ntfqmoxg gktuuxo qt wo mojxwuqji garx. Qjx emxgqato ag ao aqg xggxohx w
emxgqato tn qjx pftpxf wdbmgqvxoq tn zmfdxog qt zxoxnaqg. Wg qjx uwk
otk gqwodg aq ag modtmzqxdui dannahmuq qt dxcagx w owqatowu aohtvx qws
kjahj gjwuu zx htogqaqmqatowu. Zmq kjxqjxf aq ag wzgtumqxui avptggazux
ag wotqjxf emxgqato; wod an ptggazux aq ag vtgq hxfqwaoui dxgafwzux.
Qjx nafgq pmfxui aohtvx-qws uwk kwg pwgq zi qjx Htolfxgg ao 1861, zmq
qjx vtgq avptfqwoq uwk dxwuaol kaqj qjx gmzbxhq kwg qjwq tn 1894. Qjag
qjx htmfq jxud qt zx mohtogqaqmqatowu.

Qjx emxgqato ag modtmzqxdui cxfi aoqfahwqx, dxuahwqx, wod qftmzuxgtvx.
Qjx dxhagato tn qjx htmfq kwg toui fxwhjxd zi tox vwbtfaqi. Aq ag qjx
uwk tn qjx uwod, wod tn htmfgx ag whhxpqxd wg gmhj wod utiwuui tzxixd
zi wuu lttd haqarxog. Oxcxfqjxuxgg, qjx jxgaqwqato xcadxoqui nxuq zi
qjx htmfq wg w kjtux ao htvaol qt w htohumgato, kjxo htogadxfxd
qtlxqjxf kaqj qjx pfxcatmg dxhagatog to qjx gmzbxhq, vwi pxfjwpg
aodahwqx qjx ptggazauaqi tn dxcagaol w htogqaqmqatowu aohtvx-qws uwk
kjahj gjwuu gmzgqwoqawuui whhtvpuagj qjx fxgmuqg wavxd wq. Qjx
dannahmuqi tn wvxodaol qjx Htogqaqmqato ag gt lfxwq qjwq toui fxwu
oxhxggaqi hwo bmgqani w fxgtfq qjxfxqt. Xcxfi xnntfq gjtmud zx vwdx ao
dxwuaol kaqj qjag gmzbxhq, wg kaqj qjx gmzbxhq tn qjx pftpxf htoqftu zi
qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq tcxf qjx mgx tn htfptfwqx kxwuqj ao aoqxfgqwqx
zmgaoxgg, qt dxcagx uxlaguwqato kjahj kaqjtmq gmhj whqato gjwuu wqqwao
qjx dxgafxd xod; zmq an qjag nwaug, qjxfx kauu muqavwqxui zx ot
wuqxfowqacx qt w htogqaqmqatowu wvxodvxoq.

Aq ktmud zx avptggazux qt tcxfgqwqx (qjtmlj aq ag tn htmfgx dannahmuq
emwoqaqwqacxui qt vxwgmfx) qjx xnnxhq mpto w owqato'g lftkqj qt
lfxwqoxgg tn kjwq vwi zx hwuuxd tflwoarxd pwqfatqagv, kjahj oxhxggwfaui
aohumdxg qjx gmzgqaqmqato tn w owqatowu nxxuaol ntf vxfx uthwu pfadx;
kaqj wg w fxgmuqwoq w jalj wvzaqato ntf qjx kjtux htmoqfi. Ot htmoqfi
hwo dxcxutp aqg nmuu gqfxolqj gt utol wg qjx pwfqg kjahj vwyx mp qjx
kjtux xwhj pmq w nxxuaol tn utiwuqi qt qjx pwfq wztcx qjx nxxuaol tn
utiwuqi qt qjx kjtux. Qjag ag qfmx tn gxhqatog wod aq ag bmgq wg qfmx
tn huwggxg. Qjx aodmgqfawu wod wlfahmuqmfwu huwggxg vmgq ktfy qtlxqjxf,
hwpaqwuagqg wod kwlxktfyxfg vmgq ktfy qtlxqjxf, an qjx zxgq ktfy tn
kjahj qjx htmoqfi ag hwpwzux ag qt zx dtox. Aq ag pftzwzux qjwq w
qjtftmljui xnnahaxoq gigqxv tn xdmhwqato htvxg oxsq qt qjx aonumxohx tn
pwqfatqagv ao zfaolaol wztmq owqatowu gmhhxgg tn qjag yaod. Tmf nxdxfwu
ntfv tn ltcxfovxoq, gt nfmaqnmu tn wdcwoqwlx qt tmf pxtpux ao hxfqwao
kwig, ao tqjxf kwig modtmzqxdui uavaqg tmf owqatowu xnnxhqacxoxgg. Aq
ag otq ptggazux, ntf aogqwohx, ntf qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq qt qwyx qjx
uxwd ao qxhjoahwu aodmgqfawu xdmhwqato, qt gxx qjwq qjx pmzuah ghjttu
gigqxv tn qjag htmoqfi dxcxutpg to wuu aqg qxhjoahwu, aodmgqfawu,
ghaxoqanah, wod htvvxfhawu gadxg. Qjag vmgq zx uxnq pfavwfaui qt qjx
gxcxfwu Gqwqxg. Oxcxfqjxuxgg, qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq jwg htoqftu tn
qjx ghjttug tn qjx Dagqfahq tn Htumvzaw, wod aq gjtmud gxx qjwq qjxgx
ghjttug pftvtqx wod xohtmfwlx qjx nmuuxgq dxcxutpvxoq tn qjx ghjtuwfg
ao ztqj htvvxfhawu wod aodmgqfawu qfwaoaol. Qjx htvvxfhawu qfwaoaol
gjtmud ao tox tn aqg zfwohjxg dxwu kaqj ntfxalo qfwdx. Qjx aodmgqfawu
qfwaoaol ag xcxo vtfx avptfqwoq. Aq gjtmud zx tox tn tmf pfavx tzbxhqg
wg w Owqato, gt nwf wg nxwgazux, htogqwoqui qt ktfy qtkwfd pmqqaol qjx
vxhjwoah, qjx kwlxktfyxf kjt ktfyg kaqj jag jwodg, to w jaljxf puwox tn
xnnahaxohi wod fxkwfd, gt wg qt aohfxwgx jag xnnxhqacxoxgg ao qjx
xhtotvah ktfud, wod qjx daloaqi, qjx fxvmoxfwqato, wod qjx ptkxf tn jag
ptgaqato ao qjx gthawu ktfud. Montfqmowqxui, wq pfxgxoq qjx xnnxhq tn
gtvx tn qjx ktfy ao qjx pmzuah ghjttug ag ao qjx xswhqui tpptgaqx
dafxhqato. An ztig wod lafug wfx qfwaoxd vxfxui ao uaqxfwfi
whhtvpuagjvxoqg, qt qjx qtqwu xshumgato tn aodmgqfawu, vwomwu, wod
qxhjoahwu qfwaoaol, qjx qxodxohi ag qt monaq qjxv ntf aodmgqfawu ktfy
wod qt vwyx qjxv fxumhqwoq qt lt aoqt aq, tf monaqqxd qt dt kxuu an
qjxi dt lt aoqt aq. Qjag ag w qxodxohi kjahj gjtmud zx gqfxomtmgui
htvzwqxd. Tmf aodmgqfawu dxcxutpvxoq dxpxodg uwflxui mpto qxhjoahwu
xdmhwqato, aohumdaol ao qjag qxfv wuu aodmgqfawu xdmhwqato, nftv qjwq
kjahj naqg w vwo qt zx w lttd vxhjwoah, w lttd hwfpxoqxf, tf
zuwhygvaqj, qt qjwq kjahj naqg w vwo qt dt qjx lfxwqxgq xolaoxxfaol
nxwq. Qjx gyauuxd vxhjwoah, qjx gyauuxd ktfyvwo, hwo zxgq zxhtvx gmhj
zi qxhjoahwu aodmgqfawu xdmhwqato. Qjx nwf-fxwhjaol mgxnmuoxgg tn
aogqaqmqxg tn qxhjotutli wod ghjttug tn vaoxg tf tn xolaoxxfaol ag otk
moacxfgwuui whyotkuxdlxd, wod ot uxgg nwf--fxwhjaol ag qjx xnnxhq tn w
lttd zmaudaol tf vxhjwoahwu qfwdxg ghjttu, w qxsqaux, tf kwqhj-vwyaol,
tf xolfwcaol ghjttu. Wuu gmhj qfwaoaol vmgq dxcxutp otq toui vwomwu
dxsqxfaqi zmq aodmgqfawu aoqxuualxohx. Ao aoqxfowqatowu facwufi qjag
htmoqfi dtxg otq jwcx qt nxwf qjx htvpxqaqato tn pwmpxf uwztf wg vmhj
wg aq jwg qt nxwf qjx xdmhwqxd uwztf tn gpxhawuui qfwaoxd htvpxqaqtfg;
wod kx gjtmud jwcx qjx xdmhwqato tn qjx jwod, xix, wod zfwao kjahj kauu
naq mg qt vxxq gmhj htvpxqaqato.

Ao xcxfi ptggazux kwi kx gjtmud jxup qjx kwlxktfyxf kjt qtaug kaqj jag
jwodg wod kjt vmgq (kx jtpx ao w htogqwoqui aohfxwgaol vxwgmfx) wugt
qtau kaqj jag zfwao. Modxf qjx Htogqaqmqato qjx Owqatowu Uxlaguwqmfx
hwo dt zmq uaqqux tn dafxhq avptfqwohx ntf jag kxunwfx gwcx kjxfx jx ag
xolwlxd ao ktfy kjahj pxfvaqg aq qt whq modxf qjx aoqxfgqwqx htvvxfhx
huwmgx tn qjx Htogqaqmqato; wod qjag ag tox fxwgto kji A gt xwfoxgqui
jtpx qjwq ztqj qjx uxlaguwqacx wod bmdahawu zfwohjxg tn qjx Ltcxfovxoq
kauu htogqfmx qjag huwmgx tn qjx Htogqaqmqato ao qjx zftwdxgq ptggazux
vwooxf. Kx hwo, jtkxcxf, ao gmhj w vwqqxf wg aodmgqfawu qfwaoaol, ao
gmhj w vwqqxf wg hjaud uwztf wod nwhqtfi uwkg, gxq wo xswvpux qt qjx
Gqwqxg zi xowhqaol qjx vtgq wdcwohxd uxlaguwqato qjwq hwo kagxui zx
xowhqxd ntf qjx Dagqfahq tn Htumvzaw.

Qjx toui tqjxf pxfgtog kjtgx kxunwfx ag wg caqwu qt qjx kxunwfx tn qjx
kjtux htmoqfi wg ag qjx kxunwfx tn qjx kwlxktfyxfg wfx qjx qauuxfg tn
qjx gtau, qjx nwfvxfg. Aq ag w vxfx qfmagv qt gwi qjwq ot lftkqj tn
haqaxg, ot lftkqj tn kxwuqj, ot aodmgqfawu dxcxutpvxoq hwo wqtox ntf
woi nwuuaol tnn ao qjx hjwfwhqxf wod gqwodaol tn qjx nwfvaol
ptpmuwqato. Dmfaol qjx uwgq nxk dxhwdxg qjag nwhq jwg zxxo fxhtloarxd
kaqj xcxf-aohfxwgaol huxwfoxgg. Qjxfx ag ot utolxf woi nwaumfx qt
fxwuarx qjwq nwfvaol, wq uxwgq ao hxfqwao zfwohjxg, vmgq zxhtvx w
qxhjoahwu wod ghaxoqanah pftnxggato. Qjag vxwog qjwq qjxfx vmgq zx tpxo
qt nwfvxfg qjx hjwohx ntf qxhjoahwu wod ghaxoqanah qfwaoaol, otq
qjxtfxqahwu vxfxui zmq tn qjx vtgq gxcxfxui pfwhqahwu qipx. Qjx nwfvxf
fxpfxgxoqg w pxhmuawfui jalj qipx tn Wvxfahwo haqarxogjap, wod jx vmgq
jwcx qjx gwvx hjwohx qt fagx wod dxcxutp wg tqjxf Wvxfahwo haqarxog
jwcx. Vtfxtcxf, aq ag xswhqui wg qfmx tn qjx nwfvxf, wg aq ag tn qjx
zmgaoxgg vwo wod qjx kwlxktfyxf, qjwq qjx muqavwqx gmhhxgg tn qjx
Owqato tn kjahj jx ntfvg w pwfq vmgq zx ntmodxd otq wutox to vwqxfawu
pftgpxfaqi zmq mpto jalj vtfwu, vxoqwu, wod pjigahwu dxcxutpvxoq. Qjag
xdmhwqato tn qjx nwfvxf--gxun-xdmhwqato zi pfxnxfxohx zmq wugt
xdmhwqato nftv qjx tmqgadx, wg kaqj wuu tqjxf vxo--ag pxhmuawfui
oxhxggwfi jxfx ao qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg, kjxfx qjx nftoqaxf htodaqatog xcxo
ao qjx oxkxgq Gqwqxg jwcx otk oxwfui cwoagjxd, kjxfx qjxfx vmgq zx w
gmzgqaqmqato tn w vtfx aoqxogacx gigqxv tn hmuqacwqato ntf qjx tud
kwgqxnmu nwfv vwowlxvxoq, wod kjxfx qjxfx vmgq zx w zxqqxf zmgaoxgg
tflwoarwqato wvtol qjx nwfvxfg qjxvgxucxg.

Gxcxfwu nwhqtfg vmgq httpxfwqx ao qjx avpftcxvxoq tn qjx nwfvxf'g
htodaqato. Jx vmgq jwcx qjx hjwohx qt zx xdmhwqxd ao qjx kadxgq
ptggazux gxogx--ao qjx gxogx kjahj yxxpg xcxf ao caxk qjx aoqavwqx
fxuwqatogjap zxqkxxo qjx qjxtfi tn xdmhwqato wod qjx nwhqg tn uanx. Ao
wuu xdmhwqato kx gjtmud kadxo tmf wavg. Aq ag w lttd qjaol qt pftdmhx w
hxfqwao omvzxf tn qfwaoxd ghjtuwfg wod gqmdxoqg; zmq qjx xdmhwqato
gmpxfaoqxodxd zi qjx Gqwqx vmgq gxxy fwqjxf qt pftdmhx w jmodfxd lttd
haqarxog qjwo vxfxui tox ghjtuwf, wod aq vmgq zx qmfoxd otk wod qjxo
nftv qjx huwgg ztty qt qjx gqmdi tn qjx lfxwq ztty tn owqmfx aqgxun.
Qjag ag xgpxhawuui qfmx tn qjx nwfvxf, wg jwg zxxo ptaoqxd tmq wlwao
wod wlwao zi wuu tzgxfcxfg vtgq htvpxqxoq qt pwgg pfwhqahwu bmdlvxoq to
qjx pftzuxvg tn tmf htmoqfi uanx. Wuu gqmdxoqg otk fxwuarx qjwq
xdmhwqato vmgq gxxy qt qfwao qjx xsxhmqacx ptkxfg tn itmol pxtpux wod
qt htonxf vtfx fxwu galoanahwohx mpto qjx pjfwgx "daloaqi tn uwztf,"
wod qt pfxpwfx qjx pmpaug gt qjwq, ao wddaqato qt xwhj dxcxutpaol ao
qjx jaljxgq dxlfxx jag aodacadmwu hwpwhaqi ntf ktfy, qjxi vwi qtlxqjxf
jxup hfxwqx w faljq pmzuah tpaoato, wod gjtk ao vwoi kwig gthawu wod
httpxfwqacx gpafaq. Tflwoarwqato jwg zxhtvx oxhxggwfi ao qjx zmgaoxgg
ktfud; wod aq jwg whhtvpuagjxd vmhj ntf lttd ao qjx ktfud tn uwztf. Aq
ag ot uxgg oxhxggwfi ntf nwfvxfg. Gmhj w vtcxvxoq wg qjx lfwolx
vtcxvxoq ag lttd ao aqgxun wod ag hwpwzux tn w kxuu-oalj aonaoaqx
nmfqjxf xsqxogato ntf lttd gt utol wg aq ag yxpq qt aqg tko uxlaqavwqx
zmgaoxgg. Qjx zxoxnaqg qt zx dxfacxd zi qjx wggthawqato tn nwfvxfg ntf
vmqmwu wdcwoqwlx wfx pwfqui xhtotvah wod pwfqui gthatutlahwu.

Vtfxtcxf, kjaux ao qjx utol fmo ctumoqwfi xnntfqg kauu pftcx vtfx
xnnahwhatmg qjwo ltcxfovxoq wggagqwohx, kjaux qjx nwfvxfg vmgq
pfavwfaui dt vtgq ntf qjxvgxucxg, ixq qjx Ltcxfovxoq hwo wugt dt vmhj.
Qjx Dxpwfqvxoq tn Wlfahmuqmfx jwg zftyxo oxk lftmod ao vwoi dafxhqatog,
wod ixwf zi ixwf aq naodg jtk aq hwo avpftcx aqg vxqjtdg wod dxcxutp
nfxgj mgxnmuoxgg. Aqg htogqwoq xnntfq ag qt lacx qjx ltcxfovxoqwu
wggagqwohx ao qjx vtgq xnnxhqacx kwi; qjwq ag, qjftmlj wggthawqatog tn
nwfvxfg fwqjxf qjwo qt tf qjftmlj aodacadmwu nwfvxfg. Aq ag wugt
gqfacaol qt httfdaowqx aqg ktfy kaqj qjx wlfahmuqmfwu dxpwfqvxoqg tn
qjx gxcxfwu Gqwqxg, wod gt nwf wg aqg tko ktfy ag xdmhwqatowu qt
httfdaowqx aq kaqj qjx ktfy tn tqjxf xdmhwqatowu wmqjtfaqaxg.
Wlfahmuqmfwu xdmhwqato ag oxhxggwfaui zwgxd mpto lxoxfwu xdmhwqato, zmq
tmf wlfahmuqmfwu xdmhwqatowu aogqaqmqatog wfx kagxui gpxhawuaraol
qjxvgxucxg, vwyaol qjxaf htmfgxg fxuwqx qt qjx whqmwu qxwhjaol tn qjx
wlfahmuqmfwu wod yaodfxd ghaxohxg qt itmol htmoqfi pxtpux tf itmol haqi
pxtpux kjt kagj qt uacx ao qjx htmoqfi.

Lfxwq pftlfxgg jwg wufxwdi zxxo vwdx wvtol nwfvxfg zi qjx hfxwqato tn
nwfvxfg' aogqaqmqxg, tn dwafi wggthawqatog, tn zfxxdxfg' wggthawqatog,
jtfqahmuqmfwu wggthawqatog, wod qjx uayx. W gqfayaol xswvpux tn jtk qjx
Ltcxfovxoq wod qjx nwfvxfg hwo httpxfwqx ag gjtko ao htooxhqato kaqj
qjx vxowhx tnnxfxd qt qjx htqqto lftkxfg tn qjx Gtmqjxfo Gqwqxg zi qjx
wdcwohx tn qjx ztuu kxxcau. Qjx Dxpwfqvxoq ag dtaol wuu aq hwo qt
tflwoarx qjx nwfvxfg ao qjx qjfxwqxoxd dagqfahqg, bmgq wg aq jwg zxxo
dtaol wuu aq hwo qt tflwoarx qjxv ao wad tn aqg ktfy qt xfwdahwqx qjx
hwqqux nxcxf qahy ao qjx Gtmqj. Qjx Dxpwfqvxoq hwo wod kauu httpxfwqx
kaqj wuu gmhj wggthawqatog, wod aq vmgq jwcx qjxaf jxup an aqg tko ktfy
ag qt zx dtox ao qjx vtgq xnnahaxoq gqiux.

Vmhj ag otk zxaol dtox ntf qjx Gqwqxg tn qjx Fthyi Vtmoqwaog wod Lfxwq
Puwaog qjftmlj qjx dxcxutpvxoq tn qjx owqatowu ptuahi tn affalwqato wod
ntfxgq pfxgxfcwqato; ot Ltcxfovxoq ptuahi ntf qjx zxqqxfvxoq tn tmf
aoqxfowu htodaqatog jwg zxxo vtfx nfmaqnmu tn lttd qjwo qjag. Qjx
ntfxgqg tn qjx Kjaqx Vtmoqwaog wod Gtmqjxfo Wppwuwhjawo fxlatog gjtmud
wugt zx pfxgxfcxd; wod qjxi hwo otq zx mouxgg qjx pxtpux tn qjx Gqwqxg
ao kjahj qjxi uax, qjftmlj qjxaf fxpfxgxoqwqacxg ao qjx Htolfxgg,
gxhmfx caltftmg whqato zi qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq.

A aocaqx qjx wqqxoqato tn qjx Htolfxgg qt qjx xgqavwqx tn qjx Gxhfxqwfi
tn Kwf ntf wo wppftpfawqato qt xowzux jav qt zxlao qjx pfxuavaowfi ktfy
ntf qjx htogqfmhqato tn w vxvtfawu wvpjaqjxwqxf wq Wfuaolqto. Qjx Lfwod
Wfvi tn qjx Fxpmzuah ao aqg owqatowu xohwvpvxoq jwg mflxd qjx xfxhqato
tn gmhj wo wvpjaqjxwqxf wg oxhxggwfi ntf qjx pftpxf tzgxfcwohx Tn
Vxvtfawu Dwi wod wg w naqqaol vtomvxoq qt qjx gtudaxf wod gwautf dxwd
zmfaxd qjxfx. Ao qjag A jxwfqaui htohmf wod htvvxod qjx vwqqxf qt qjx
nwctfwzux htogadxfwqato tn qjx Htolfxgg.

A wv kxuu wkwfx tn jtk dannahmuq aq ag qt pwgg w htogqaqmqatowu
wvxodvxoq. Oxcxfqjxuxgg ao vi bmdlvxoq qjx kjtux emxgqato tn vwffawlx
wod dactfhx gjtmud zx fxuxlwqxd qt qjx wmqjtfaqi tn qjx Owqatowu
Htolfxgg. Wq pfxgxoq qjx kadx dannxfxohxg ao qjx uwkg tn qjx dannxfxoq
Gqwqxg to qjag gmzbxhq fxgmuq ao ghwodwug wod wzmgxg; wod gmfxui qjxfx
ag otqjaol gt caqwuui xggxoqawu qt qjx kxunwfx tn qjx owqato, otqjaol
wftmod kjahj qjx owqato gjtmud gt zxod aqgxun qt qjftk xcxfi gwnxlmwfd,
wg qjx jtvx uanx tn qjx wcxfwlx haqarxo. Qjx hjwolx ktmud zx lttd nftv
xcxfi gqwodptaoq. Ao pwfqahmuwf aq ktmud zx lttd zxhwmgx aq ktmud
htonxf to qjx Htolfxgg qjx ptkxf wq tohx qt dxwu fwdahwuui wod
xnnahaxoqui kaqj ptuilwvi; wod qjag gjtmud zx dtox kjxqjxf tf otq
vwffawlx wod dactfhx wfx dxwuq kaqj. Aq ag oxaqjxf gwnx otf pftpxf qt
uxwcx qjx emxgqato tn ptuilwvi qt zx dxwuq kaqj zi qjx gxcxfwu Gqwqxg.
Ptkxf qt dxwu kaqj aq gjtmud zx htonxffxd to qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq.

Kjxo jtvx qaxg wfx uttgxoxd; kjxo vxo wod ktvxo hxwgx qt fxlwfd w
ktfqji nwvaui uanx, kaqj wuu aqg dmqaxg nmuui pxfntfvxd, wod wuu aqg
fxgptogazauaqaxg uacxd mp qt, wg qjx uanx zxgq ktfqj uacaol; qjxo xcau
dwig ntf qjx htvvtokxwuqj wfx wq jwod. Qjxfx wfx fxlatog ao tmf uwod,
wod huwggxg tn tmf ptpmuwqato, kjxfx qjx zafqj fwqx jwg gmoy zxutk qjx
dxwqj fwqx. Gmfxui aq gjtmud oxxd ot dxvtogqfwqato qt gjtk qjwq kaunmu
gqxfauaqi ag, nftv qjx gqwodptaoq tn qjx owqato, nftv qjx gqwodptaoq tn
qjx jmvwo fwhx, qjx tox gao ntf kjahj qjx pxowuqi ag owqatowu dxwqj,
fwhx dxwqj; w gao ntf kjahj qjxfx ag ot wqtoxvxoq; w gao kjahj ag qjx
vtfx dfxwdnmu xswhqui ao pftptfqato wg qjx vxo wod ktvxo lmauqi qjxfxtn
wfx ao tqjxf fxgpxhqg, ao hjwfwhqxf, wod ztdaui wod vxoqwu ptkxfg,
qjtgx kjtv ntf qjx gwyx tn qjx gqwqx aq ktmud zx kxuu qt gxx qjx
nwqjxfg wod vtqjxfg tn vwoi jxwuqji hjaudfxo, kxuu zftmljq mp ao jtvxg
vwdx jwppi zi qjxaf pfxgxohx. Ot vwo, ot ktvwo, hwo gjafy qjx pfavwfi
dmqaxg tn uanx, kjxqjxf ntf utcx tn xwgx wod puxwgmfx, tf ntf woi tqjxf
hwmgx, wod fxqwao jag tf jxf gxun-fxgpxhq.

Uxq vx tohx wlwao hwuu qjx wqqxoqato tn qjx Htolfxgg qt qkt gmzbxhqg
htohxfoaol kjahj A jwcx nfxemxoqui zxntfx htvvmoahwqxd kaqj qjxv. Tox
ag qjx emxgqato tn dxcxutpaol Wvxfahwo gjappaol. A qfmgq qjwq w uwk
xvztdiaol ao gmzgqwohx qjx caxkg, tf w vwbtf pwfq tn qjx caxkg, xspfxgq
ao qjx fxptfq to qjag gmzbxhq uwad zxntfx qjx Jtmgx wq aqg uwgq gxggato
kauu zx pwgq. A wv kxuu wkwfx qjwq ao ntfvxf ixwfg tzbxhqatowzux
vxwgmfxg jwcx zxxo pftptgxd ao fxnxfxohx qt qjx xohtmfwlxvxoq tn
Wvxfahwo gjappaol; zmq aq gxxvg qt vx qjwq qjx pftptgxd vxwgmfx ag wg
oxwfui motzbxhqatowzux wg woi hwo zx. Aq kauu tn htmfgx zxoxnaq
pfavwfaui tmf gxwztwfd Gqwqxg, gmhj wg Vwaox, Utmagawow, wod
Kwgjaolqto; zmq kjwq zxoxnaqg pwfq tn tmf pxtpux ao qjx xod zxoxnaqg
wuu; bmgq wg Ltcxfovxoq wad qt affalwqato wod ntfxgqfi ao qjx Kxgq ag
fxwuui tn zxoxnaq, otq toui qt qjx Fthyi Vtmoqwao Gqwqxg, zmq qt wuu
tmf htmoqfi. An aq pftcx avpfwhqahwzux qt xowhq w uwk ntf qjx
xohtmfwlxvxoq tn gjappaol lxoxfwuui, qjxo wq uxwgq pftcagato gjtmud zx
vwdx ntf zxqqxf htvvmoahwqato kaqj Gtmqj Wvxfahw, otqwzui ntf nwgq vwau
uaoxg qt qjx hjaxn Gtmqj Wvxfahwo ptfqg. Aq ag daghfxdaqwzux qt mg qjwq
tmf zmgaoxgg pxtpux, ntf uwhy tn dafxhq htvvmoahwqato ao qjx gjwpx tn
uaoxg tn gqxwvxfg kaqj Gtmqj Wvxfahw, gjtmud ao qjwq lfxwq gagqxf
htoqaoxoq zx wq w dagwdcwoqwlx htvpwfxd qt qjx zmgaoxgg pxtpux tn
Xmftpx.

A xgpxhawuui hwuu itmf wqqxoqato qt qjx gxhtod gmzbxhq, qjx htodaqato
tn tmf hmffxohi uwkg. Qjx owqatowu zwoy whq jwg wzui gxfcxd w lfxwq
pmfptgx ao wadaol qjx xotfvtmg zmgaoxgg dxcxutpvxoq tn qjx htmoqfi; wod
kaqjao qxo ixwfg qjxfx jwg zxxo wo aohfxwgx ao hafhmuwqato pxf hwpaqw
nftv $21.41 qt $33.08. Ntf gxcxfwu ixwfg xcadxohx jwg zxxo whhmvmuwqaol
qjwq wddaqatowu uxlaguwqato ag oxxdxd. Qjx fxhmffxohx tn xwhj hftp
gxwgto xvpjwgarxg qjx dxnxhqg tn qjx pfxgxoq uwkg. Qjxfx vmgq gtto zx w
fxcagato tn qjxv, zxhwmgx qt uxwcx qjxv wg qjxi wfx vxwog qt aohmf
uawzauaqi tn zmgaoxgg dagwgqxf. Gaohx itmf ztdi wdbtmfoxd qjxfx jwg
zxxo w numhqmwqato ao qjx aoqxfxgq to hwuu vtoxi nftv 2 pxf hxoq qt 30
pxf hxoq; wod qjx numhqmwqato kwg xcxo lfxwqxf dmfaol qjx pfxhxdaol gas
vtoqjg. Qjx Gxhfxqwfi tn qjx Qfxwgmfi jwd qt gqxp ao wod zi kagx whqato
pmq w gqtp qt qjx vtgq catuxoq pxfatd tn tghauuwqato. Xcxo ktfgx qjwo
gmhj numhqmwqato ag qjx wdcwohx ao htvvxfhawu fwqxg wod qjx mohxfqwaoqi
nxuq ao qjx gmnnahaxohi tn hfxdaq xcxo wq jalj fwqxg. Wuu htvvxfhawu
aoqxfxgqg gmnnxf dmfaol xwhj hftp pxfatd. Xshxggacx fwqxg ntf hwuu
vtoxi ao Oxk Itfy wqqfwhq vtoxi nftv qjx aoqxfatf zwoyg aoqt qjx
gpxhmuwqacx naxud; qjag dxpuxqxg qjx nmod qjwq ktmud tqjxfkagx zx
wcwauwzux ntf htvvxfhawu mgxg, wod htvvxfhawu ztfftkxfg wfx ntfhxd qt
pwi wzotfvwu fwqxg; gt qjwq xwhj nwuu w qws, ao qjx gjwpx tn aohfxwgxd
aoqxfxgq hjwflxg, ag puwhxd to qjx kjtux htvvxfhx tn qjx htmoqfi.

Qjx vxfx gqwqxvxoq tn qjxgx jwg gjtkg qjwq tmf pfxgxoq gigqxv ag
gxfatmgui dxnxhqacx. Qjxfx ag oxxd tn w hjwolx. Montfqmowqxui, jtkxcxf,
vwoi tn qjx pftptgxd hjwolxg vmgq zx fmuxd nftv htogadxfwqato zxhwmgx
qjxi wfx htvpuahwqxd, wfx otq xwgi tn htvpfxjxogato, wod qxod qt,
dagqmfz xsagqaol faljqg wod aoqxfxgqg. Kx vmgq wugt fmux tmq woi puwo
kjahj ktmud vwqxfawuui avpwaf qjx cwumx tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg 2 pxf hxoq
ztodg otk puxdlxd qt gxhmfx hafhmuwqatog, qjx aggmx tn kjahj kwg vwdx
modxf htodaqatog pxhmuawfui hfxdaqwzux qt qjx Qfxwgmfi. A dt otq pfxgg
woi xgpxhawu puwo. Cwfatmg puwog jwcx fxhxoqui zxxo pftptgxd zi xspxfq
htvvaqqxxg tn zwoyxfg. Wvtol qjx puwog kjahj wfx ptggazui nxwgazux wod
kjahj hxfqwaoui gjtmud fxhxacx itmf htogadxfwqato ag qjwq fxpxwqxdui
zftmljq qt itmf wqqxoqato zi qjx pfxgxoq Gxhfxqwfi tn qjx Qfxwgmfi, qjx
xggxoqawu nxwqmfxg tn kjahj jwcx zxxo wppftcxd zi vwoi pftvaoxoq
zwoyxfg wod zmgaoxgg vxo. Whhtfdaol qt qjag puwo owqatowu zwoyg gjtmud
zx pxfvaqqxd qt aggmx w gpxhanaxd pftptfqato tn qjxaf hwpaqwu ao otqxg
tn w lacxo yaod, qjx aggmx qt zx qwsxd wq gt jalj w fwqx wg qt dfacx
qjx otqxg zwhy kjxo otq kwoqxd ao uxlaqavwqx qfwdx. Qjag puwo ktmud otq
pxfvaq qjx aggmx tn hmffxohi qt lacx zwoyg wddaqatowu pftnaqg, zmq qt
vxxq qjx xvxflxohi pfxgxoqxd zi qavxg tn gqfaolxohi.

A dt otq gwi qjwq qjag ag qjx faljq gigqxv. A toui wdcwohx aq qt
xvpjwgarx vi zxuaxn qjwq qjxfx ag oxxd ntf qjx wdtpqato tn gtvx gigqxv
kjahj gjwuu zx wmqtvwqah wod tpxo qt wuu gtmod zwoyg, gt wg qt wctad
wuu ptggazauaqi tn daghfavaowqato wod nwctfaqagv. Gmhj w puwo ktmud
qxod qt pfxcxoq qjx gpwgvg tn jalj vtoxi wod gpxhmuwqato kjahj otk
tzqwao ao qjx Oxk Itfy vwfyxq; ntf wq pfxgxoq qjxfx ag qtt vmhj
hmffxohi wq hxfqwao gxwgtog tn qjx ixwf, wod aqg whhmvmuwqato wq Oxk
Itfy qxvpqg zwoyxfg qt uxod aq wq utk fwqxg ntf gpxhmuwqacx pmfptgxg;
kjxfxwg wq tqjxf qavxg kjxo qjx hftpg wfx zxaol vtcxd qjxfx ag mflxoq
oxxd ntf w uwflx zmq qxvptfwfi aohfxwgx ao qjx hmffxohi gmppui. Aq vmgq
oxcxf zx ntfltqqxo qjwq qjag emxgqato htohxfog zmgaoxgg vxo lxoxfwuui
emaqx wg vmhj wg zwoyxfg; xgpxhawuui ag qjag qfmx tn gqthyvxo, nwfvxfg,
wod zmgaoxgg vxo ao qjx Kxgq; ntf wq pfxgxoq wq hxfqwao gxwgtog tn qjx
ixwf qjx dannxfxohx ao aoqxfxgq fwqxg zxqkxxo qjx Xwgq wod qjx Kxgq ag
nftv 6 qt 10 pxf hxoq, kjxfxwg ao Hwowdw qjx htffxgptodaol dannxfxohx
ag zmq 2 pxf hxoq. Woi puwo vmgq, tn htmfgx, lmwfd qjx aoqxfxgqg tn
kxgqxfo wod gtmqjxfo zwoyxfg wg hwfxnmuui wg aq lmwfdg qjx aoqxfxgqg tn
Oxk Itfy tf Hjahwlt zwoyxfg; wod vmgq zx dfwko nftv qjx gqwodptaoqg tn
qjx nwfvxf wod qjx vxfhjwoq ot uxgg qjwo nftv qjx gqwodptaoqg tn qjx
haqi zwoyxf wod qjx htmoqfi zwoyxf.

Qjx uwk gjtmud zx wvxodxd gt wg gpxhanahwuui qt pftcadx qjwq qjx nmodg
dxfacxd nftv hmgqtvg dmqaxg vwi zx qfxwqxd zi qjx Gxhfxqwfi tn qjx
Qfxwgmfi wg jx qfxwqg nmodg tzqwaoxd modxf qjx aoqxfowu-fxcxomx uwkg.
Qjxfx gjtmud zx w htogadxfwzux aohfxwgx ao zauug tn gvwuu
dxotvaowqatog. Pxfvaggato gjtmud zx lacxo zwoyg, an oxhxggwfi modxf
gxqquxd fxgqfahqatog, qt fxqafx qjxaf hafhmuwqato qt w uwflxf wvtmoq
qjwo qjfxx vauuatog w vtoqj.

A vtgq xwfoxgqui jtpx qjwq qjx zauu qt pftcadx w utkxf qwfann ntf tf
xugx wzgtumqx nfxx qfwdx ao Pjauappaox pftdmhqg kauu zxhtvx w uwk. Ot
jwfv kauu htvx qt woi Wvxfahwo aodmgqfi; wod kjaux qjxfx kauu zx gtvx
gvwuu zmq fxwu vwqxfawu zxoxnaq qt qjx Nauapaotg, qjx vwao zxoxnaq kauu
htvx zi qjx gjtkaol vwdx wg qt tmf pmfptgx qt dt wuu ao tmf ptkxf ntf
qjxaf kxunwfx. Gt nwf tmf whqato ao qjx Pjauappaoxg jwg zxxo wzmodwoqui
bmgqanaxd, otq vwaoui wod aodxxd otq pfavwfaui zxhwmgx tn qjx wddxd
daloaqi aq jwg lacxo mg wg w owqato zi pftcaol qjwq kx wfx hwpwzux
jtotfwzui wod xnnahaxoqui qt zxwf qjx aoqxfowqatowu zmfdxog kjahj w
valjqi pxtpux gjtmud zxwf, zmq xcxo vtfx zxhwmgx tn qjx avvxogx zxoxnaq
qjwq jwg htvx qt qjx pxtpux tn qjx Pjauappaox Aguwodg. Ao qjxgx aguwodg
kx wfx gqxwdaui aoqftdmhaol ztqj uazxfqi wod tfdxf, qt w lfxwqxf dxlfxx
qjwo qjxaf pxtpux jwcx xcxf zxntfx yotko. Kx jwcx gxhmfxd bmgqahx. Kx
jwcx pftcadxd wo xnnahaxoq ptuahx ntfhx, wod jwcx pmq dtko uwdftoagv.
Toui ao qjx aguwodg tn Uxiqx wod Gwvwf ag qjx wmqjtfaqi tn tmf
Ltcxfovxoq fxgagqxd wod qjag zi kaud vtmoqwao qfazxg modxf qjx
gmpxfgqaqatmg aogpafwqato tn nwyafg wod pgxmdt-fxualatog uxwdxfg. Kx
wfx htogqwoqui aohfxwgaol qjx vxwgmfx tn uazxfqi whhtfdxd qjx
aguwodxfg, wod oxsq gpfaol, an htodaqatog kwffwoq, kx gjwuu qwyx w
lfxwq gqfadx ntfkwfd ao qxgqaol qjxaf hwpwhaqi ntf gxun-ltcxfovxoq zi
gmvvtoaol qjx nafgq Nauapaot uxlaguwqacx wggxvzui; wod qjx kwi ao kjahj
qjxi gqwod qjag qxgq kauu uwflxui dxqxfvaox kjxqjxf qjx gxun-ltcxfovxoq
qjmg lfwoqxd kauu zx aohfxwgxd tf dxhfxwgxd; ntf an kx jwcx xffxd wq
wuu ao qjx Pjauappaoxg aq jwg zxxo ao pfthxxdaol qtt fwpadui ao qjx
dafxhqato tn lfwoqaol w uwflx vxwgmfx tn gxun-ltcxfovxoq. Kx wfx
zmaudaol ftwdg. Kx jwcx, ntf qjx avvxwgmfwzux lttd tn qjx pxtpux,
wffwolxd ntf qjx zmaudaol tn fwauftwdg. Uxq mg wugt gxx qt aq qjwq qjxi
wfx lacxo nfxx whhxgg qt tmf vwfyxqg. Qjag owqato tkxg ot vtfx
avpxfwqacx dmqi qt aqgxun wod vwoyaod qjwo qjx dmqi tn vwowlaol qjx
wnnwafg tn wuu qjx aguwodg modxf qjx Wvxfahwo nuwl--qjx Pjauappaoxg,
Ptfqt Faht, wod Jwkwaa--gt wg qt vwyx aq xcadxoq qjwq aq ag ao xcxfi
kwi qt qjxaf wdcwoqwlx qjwq qjx nuwl gjtmud nui tcxf qjxv.

Wvxfahwo haqarxogjap gjtmud zx htonxffxd to qjx haqarxog tn Ptfqt Faht.
Qjx jwfztf tn Gwo Bmwo ao Ptfqt Faht gjtmud zx dfxdlxd wod avpftcxd.
Qjx xspxogxg tn qjx nxdxfwu htmfq tn Ptfqt Faht gjtmud zx vxq nftv qjx
Nxdxfwu Qfxwgmfi. Qjx wdvaoagqfwqato tn qjx wnnwafg tn Ptfqt Faht,
qtlxqjxf kaqj qjtgx tn qjx Pjauappaoxg, Jwkwaa, wod tmf tqjxf aogmuwf
ptggxggatog, gjtmud wuu zx dafxhqxd modxf tox xsxhmqacx dxpwfqvxoq; zi
pfxnxfxohx qjx Dxpwfqvxoq tn Gqwqx tf qjx Dxpwfqvxoq tn Kwf.

Qjx oxxdg tn Jwkwaa wfx pxhmuawf; xcxfi wad gjtmud zx lacxo qjx
aguwodg; wod tmf xnntfqg gjtmud zx mohxwgaol qt dxcxutp qjxv wutol qjx
uaoxg tn w htvvmoaqi tn gvwuu nfxxjtudxfg, otq tn lfxwq puwoqxfg kaqj
httuax-qauuxd xgqwqxg. Gaqmwqxd wg qjag Qxffaqtfi ag, ao qjx vaddux tn
qjx Pwhanah, qjxfx wfx dmqaxg avptgxd mpto qjag gvwuu htvvmoaqi kjahj
dt otq nwuu ao uayx dxlfxx tf vwooxf mpto woi tqjxf Wvxfahwo htvvmoaqi.
Qjag kwffwoqg tmf qfxwqaol aq dannxfxoqui nftv qjx kwi ao kjahj kx
qfxwq Qxffaqtfaxg htoqalmtmg qt tf gmfftmodxd zi gagqxf Qxffaqtfaxg tf
tqjxf Gqwqxg, wod bmgqanaxg qjx gxqqaol wgadx tn w ptfqato tn tmf
fxcxomxg qt zx xspxodxd ntf xdmhwqatowu wod aoqxfowu avpftcxvxoqg
qjxfxao. Jwkwaa ag otk vwyaol wo xnntfq qt gxhmfx avvalfwqato naq ao
qjx xod qt wggmvx qjx dmqaxg wod zmfdxog tn nmuu Wvxfahwo haqarxogjap,
wod kjxoxcxf qjx uxwdxfg ao qjx cwfatmg aodmgqfaxg tn qjtgx aguwodg
naowuui wdtpq tmf adxwug wod jxwfqaui btao tmf wdvaoagqfwqato ao
xodxwctfaol qt dxcxutp w vaddux huwgg tn gmzgqwoqawu haqarxog, w kwi
kauu qjxo zx ntmod qt dxwu kaqj qjx htvvxfhawu wod aodmgqfawu pftzuxvg
kjahj otk wppxwf qt qjxv gt gxfatmg. Qjx zxgq Wvxfahwoagv ag qjwq kjahj
wavg ntf gqwzauaqi wod pxfvwoxohi tn pftgpxftmg haqarxogjap, fwqjxf
qjwo avvxdawqx fxqmfog to uwflx vwggxg tn hwpaqwu.

Wuwgyw'g oxxdg jwcx zxxo pwfqawuui vxq, zmq qjxfx vmgq zx w htvpuxqx
fxtflwoarwqato tn qjx ltcxfovxoqwu gigqxv, wg A jwcx zxntfx aodahwqxd
qt itm. A wgy itmf xgpxhawu wqqxoqato qt qjag. Tmf nxuutk-haqarxog kjt
dkxuu to qjx gjtfxg tn Pmlxq Gtmod kaqj hjwfwhqxfagqah xoxfli wfx
wffwolaol qt jtud ao Gxwqqux qjx Wuwgyw Imyto Pwhanah Xsptgaqato. Aqg
gpxhawu wavg aohumdx qjx mpzmaudaol tn Wuwgyw wod qjx dxcxutpvxoq tn
Wvxfahwo htvvxfhx to qjx Pwhanah Thxwo. Qjag xsptgaqato, ao aqg
pmfptgxg wod ghtpx, gjtmud wppxwu otq toui qt qjx pxtpux tn qjx Pwhanah
gutpx, zmq qt qjx pxtpux tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg wq uwflx. Wuwgyw gaohx aq
kwg ztmljq jwg iaxudxd qt qjx Ltcxfovxoq xuxcxo vauuatog tn dtuuwfg tn
fxcxomx, wod jwg pftdmhxd oxwfui qjfxx jmodfxd vauuatog tn dtuuwfg ao
ltud, nmfg, wod nagj. Kjxo pftpxfui dxcxutpxd aq kauu zxhtvx ao uwflx
dxlfxx w uwod tn jtvxg. Qjx htmoqfaxg ztfdxfaol qjx Pwhanah Thxwo jwcx
w ptpmuwqato vtfx omvxftmg qjwo qjwq tn wuu qjx htmoqfaxg tn Xmftpx;
qjxaf woomwu ntfxalo htvvxfhx wvtmoqg qt tcxf qjfxx zauuatog tn
dtuuwfg, tn kjahj qjx gjwfx tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg ag gtvx gxcxo jmodfxd
vauuatog tn dtuuwfg. An qjag qfwdx kxfx qjtftmljui modxfgqttd wod
pmgjxd zi tmf vwomnwhqmfxfg wod pftdmhxfg, qjx aodmgqfaxg otq toui tn
qjx Pwhanah gutpx, zmq tn wuu tmf htmoqfi, wod pwfqahmuwfui tn tmf
htqqto-lftkaol Gqwqxg, ktmud zx lfxwqui zxoxnaqxd. Tn htmfgx, ao tfdxf
qt lxq qjxgx zxoxnaqg, kx vmgq qfxwq nwafui qjx htmoqfaxg kaqj kjahj kx
qfwdx.

Aq ag w vagqwyx, wod aq zxqfwig w gpafaq tn nttuagj hioahagv, qt
vwaoqwao qjwq wuu aoqxfowqatowu ltcxfovxoqwu whqato ag, wod vmgq xcxf
zx, zwgxd mpto vxfx gxunagjoxgg, wod qjwq qt wdcwohx xqjahwu fxwgtog
ntf gmhj whqato ag wukwig w galo tn jipthfagi. Qjag ag ot vtfx
oxhxggwfaui qfmx tn qjx whqato tn ltcxfovxoqg qjwo tn qjx whqato tn
aodacadmwug. Aq ag w gmfx galo tn w zwgx owqmfx wukwig qt wghfazx zwgx
vtqacxg ntf qjx whqatog tn tqjxfg. Moemxgqatowzui ot owqato hwo wnntfd
qt dagfxlwfd pftpxf htogadxfwqatog tn gxun-aoqxfxgq, woi vtfx qjwo w
pfacwqx aodacadmwu hwo gt dt. Zmq aq ag xemwuui qfmx qjwq qjx wcxfwlx
pfacwqx aodacadmwu ao woi fxwuui dxhxoq htvvmoaqi dtxg vwoi whqatog
kaqj fxnxfxohx qt tqjxf vxo ao kjahj jx ag lmadxd, otq zi
gxun-aoqxfxgq, zmq zi pmzuah gpafaq, zi fxlwfd ntf qjx faljqg tn
tqjxfg, zi w dagaoqxfxgqxd pmfptgx qt dt lttd qt tqjxfg, wod qt fwagx
qjx qtox tn qjx htvvmoaqi wg w kjtux. Gavauwfui, w fxwuui lfxwq owqato
vmgq tnqxo whq, wod wg w vwqqxf tn nwhq tnqxo dtxg whq, qtkwfd tqjxf
owqatog ao w gpafaq otq ao qjx uxwgq tn vxfx gxun-aoqxfxgq, zmq pwiaol
jxxd hjaxnui qt xqjahwu fxwgtog; wod wg qjx hxoqmfaxg lt zi qjag
dagaoqxfxgqxdoxgg ao aoqxfowqatowu whqato, qjag qxodxohi tn qjx
aodacadmwug htvpfagaol w owqato qt fxemafx qjwq owqato qt whq kaqj
bmgqahx qtkwfd aqg oxaljztfg, gqxwdaui lftkg wod gqfxolqjxog. Aq ag
oxaqjxf kagx otf faljq ntf w owqato qt dagfxlwfd aqg tko oxxdg, wod aq
ag nttuagj--wod vwi zx kahyxd--qt qjaoy qjwq tqjxf owqatog kauu
dagfxlwfd qjxafg. Zmq aq ag kahyxd ntf w owqato toui qt fxlwfd aqg tko
aoqxfxgq, wod nttuagj qt zxuaxcx qjwq gmhj ag qjx gtux vtqacx qjwq
whqmwqxg woi tqjxf owqato. Aq gjtmud zx tmf gqxwdi wav qt fwagx qjx
xqjahwu gqwodwfd tn owqatowu whqato bmgq wg kx gqfacx qt fwagx qjx
xqjahwu gqwodwfd tn aodacadmwu whqato.

Otq toui vmgq kx qfxwq wuu owqatog nwafui, zmq kx vmgq qfxwq kaqj
bmgqahx wod lttd kauu wuu avvalfwoqg kjt htvx jxfx modxf qjx uwk.
Kjxqjxf qjxi wfx Hwqjtuah tf Pftqxgqwoq, Bxk tf Lxoqaux; kjxqjxf qjxi
htvx nftv Xoluwod tf Lxfvwoi, Fmggaw, Bwpwo, tf Aqwui, vwqqxfg otqjaol.
Wuu kx jwcx w faljq qt emxgqato ag qjx vwo'g htodmhq. An jx ag jtoxgq
wod mpfaljq ao jag dxwuaolg kaqj jag oxaljztf wod kaqj qjx Gqwqx, qjxo
jx ag xoqaquxd qt fxgpxhq wod lttd qfxwqvxoq. Xgpxhawuui dt kx oxxd qt
fxvxvzxf tmf dmqi qt qjx gqfwolxf kaqjao tmf lwqxg. Aq ag qjx gmfx vwfy
tn w utk hacauarwqato, w utk vtfwuaqi, qt wzmgx tf daghfavaowqx wlwaogq
tf ao woi kwi jmvauawqx gmhj gqfwolxf kjt jwg htvx jxfx uwknmuui wod
kjt ag htodmhqaol javgxun pftpxfui. Qt fxvxvzxf qjag ag aohmvzxoq to
xcxfi Wvxfahwo haqarxo, wod aq ag tn htmfgx pxhmuawfui aohmvzxoq to
xcxfi Ltcxfovxoq tnnahawu, kjxqjxf tn qjx owqato tf tn qjx gxcxfwu
Gqwqxg.

A wv pftvpqxd qt gwi qjag zi qjx wqqaqmdx tn jtgqauaqi jxfx wod qjxfx
wggmvxd qtkwfd qjx Bwpwoxgx ao qjag htmoqfi. Qjag jtgqauaqi ag gptfwdah
wod ag uavaqxd qt w cxfi nxk puwhxg. Oxcxfqjxuxgg, aq ag vtgq
daghfxdaqwzux qt mg wg w pxtpux, wod aq vwi zx nfwmljq kaqj qjx lfwcxgq
htogxemxohxg qt qjx owqato. Qjx nfaxodgjap zxqkxxo qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg
wod Bwpwo jwg zxxo htoqaomtmg gaohx qjx qavx, tcxf jwun w hxoqmfi wlt,
kjxo Htvvtdtfx Pxffi, zi jag xspxdaqato qt Bwpwo, nafgq tpxoxd qjx
aguwodg qt kxgqxfo hacauarwqato. Gaohx qjxo qjx lftkqj tn Bwpwo jwg
zxxo uaqxfwuui wgqtmodaol. Qjxfx ag otq toui otqjaol qt pwfwuuxu aq,
zmq otqjaol qt wppftwhj aq ao qjx jagqtfi tn hacauarxd vwoyaod. Bwpwo
jwg w lutfatmg wod wohaxoq pwgq. Jxf hacauarwqato ag tudxf qjwo qjwq tn
qjx owqatog tn otfqjxfo Xmftpx--qjx owqatog nftv kjtv qjx pxtpux tn qjx
Moaqxd Gqwqxg jwcx hjaxnui gpfmol. Zmq nanqi ixwfg wlt Bwpwo'g
dxcxutpvxoq kwg gqauu qjwq tn qjx Vaddux Wlxg. Dmfaol qjwq nanqi ixwfg
qjx pftlfxgg tn qjx htmoqfi ao xcxfi kwuy ao uanx jwg zxxo w vwfcxu qt
vwoyaod, wod gjx otk gqwodg wg tox tn qjx lfxwqxgq tn hacauarxd
owqatog; lfxwq ao qjx wfqg tn kwf wod ao qjx wfqg tn pxwhx; lfxwq ao
vauaqwfi, ao aodmgqfawu, ao wfqagqah dxcxutpvxoq wod whjaxcxvxoq.
Bwpwoxgx gtudaxfg wod gwautfg jwcx gjtko qjxvgxucxg xemwu ao htvzwq qt
woi tn kjtv jagqtfi vwyxg otqx. Gjx jwg pftdmhxd lfxwq lxoxfwug wod
valjqi wdvafwug; jxf naljqaol vxo, wnutwq wod wgjtfx, gjtk wuu qjx
jxftah htmfwlx, qjx moemxgqatoaol, monwuqxfaol utiwuqi, qjx gpuxodad
aodannxfxohx qt jwfdgjap wod dxwqj, kjahj vwfyxd qjx Utiwu Ftoaog; wod
qjxi gjtk wugt qjwq qjxi ptggxgg qjx jaljxgq adxwu tn pwqfatqagv.
Bwpwoxgx wfqagqg tn xcxfi yaod gxx qjxaf pftdmhqg xwlxfui gtmljq ntf ao
wuu uwodg. Qjx aodmgqfawu wod htvvxfhawu dxcxutpvxoq tn Bwpwo jwg zxxo
pjxotvxowu; lfxwqxf qjwo qjwq tn woi tqjxf htmoqfi dmfaol qjx gwvx
pxfatd. Wq qjx gwvx qavx qjx wdcwohx ao ghaxohx wod pjautgtpji ag ot
uxgg vwfyxd. Qjx wdvafwzux vwowlxvxoq tn qjx Bwpwoxgx Fxd Hftgg dmfaol
qjx uwqx kwf, qjx xnnahaxohi wod jmvwoaqi tn qjx Bwpwoxgx tnnahawug,
omfgxg, wod dthqtfg, kto qjx fxgpxhqnmu wdvafwqato tn wuu whemwaoqxd
kaqj qjx nwhqg. Qjftmlj qjx Fxd Hftgg qjx Bwpwoxgx pxtpux gxoq tcxf
$100,000 qt qjx gmnnxfxfg tn Gwo Nfwohaght, wod qjx lanq kwg whhxpqxd
kaqj lfwqaqmdx zi tmf pxtpux. Qjx htmfqxgi tn qjx Bwpwoxgx, owqatowuui
wod aodacadmwuui, jwg zxhtvx pftcxfzawu. Qt ot tqjxf htmoqfi jwg qjxfx
zxxo gmhj wo aohfxwgaol omvzxf tn cagaqtfg nftv qjag uwod wg qt Bwpwo.
Ao fxqmfo, Bwpwoxgx jwcx htvx jxfx ao lfxwq omvzxfg. Qjxi wfx kxuhtvx,
gthawuui wod aoqxuuxhqmwuui, ao wuu tmf htuuxlxg wod aogqaqmqatog tn
jaljxf uxwfoaol, ao wuu tmf pftnxggatowu wod gthawu ztdaxg. Qjx
Bwpwoxgx jwcx kto ao w gaolux lxoxfwqato qjx faljq qt gqwod wzfxwgq tn
qjx ntfxvtgq wod vtgq xoualjqxoxd pxtpuxg tn Xmftpx wod Wvxfahw; qjxi
jwcx kto to qjxaf tko vxfaqg wod zi qjxaf tko xsxfqatog qjx faljq qt
qfxwqvxoq to w zwgag tn nmuu wod nfwoy xemwuaqi. Qjx tcxfkjxuvaol vwgg
tn tmf pxtpux hjxfagj w uacxui fxlwfd wod fxgpxhq ntf qjx pxtpux tn
Bwpwo, wod ao wuvtgq xcxfi emwfqxf tn qjx Moato qjx gqfwolxf nftv Bwpwo
ag qfxwqxd wg jx dxgxfcxg; qjwq ag, jx ag qfxwqxd wg qjx gqfwolxf nftv
woi pwfq tn hacauarxd Xmftpx ag wod dxgxfcxg qt zx qfxwqxd. Zmq jxfx
wod qjxfx w vtgq moktfqji nxxuaol jwg vwoanxgqxd aqgxun qtkwfd qjx
Bwpwoxgx--qjx nxxuaol qjwq jwg zxxo gjtko ao gjmqqaol qjxv tmq nftv qjx
htvvto ghjttug ao Gwo Nfwohaght, wod ao vmqqxfaolg wlwaogq qjxv ao tox
tf qkt tqjxf puwhxg, zxhwmgx tn qjxaf xnnahaxohi wg ktfyxfg. Qt gjmq
qjxv tmq nftv qjx pmzuah ghjttug ag w kahyxd wzgmfdaqi, kjxo qjxfx wfx
ot nafgq-huwgg htuuxlxg ao qjx uwod, aohumdaol qjx moacxfgaqaxg wod
htuuxlxg tn Hwuantfoaw, kjahj dt otq luwdui kxuhtvx Bwpwoxgx gqmdxoqg
wod to kjahj Bwpwoxgx gqmdxoqg dt otq fxnuxhq hfxdaq. Kx jwcx wg vmhj
qt uxwfo nftv Bwpwo wg Bwpwo jwg qt uxwfo nftv mg; wod ot owqato ag naq
qt qxwhj mouxgg aq ag wugt kauuaol qt uxwfo. Qjftmljtmq Bwpwo Wvxfahwog
wfx kxuu qfxwqxd, wod woi nwaumfx to qjx pwfq tn Wvxfahwog wq jtvx qt
qfxwq qjx Bwpwoxgx kaqj w uayx htmfqxgi wod htogadxfwqato ag zi bmgq gt
vmhj w htonxggato tn aonxfatfaqi ao tmf hacauarwqato.

Tmf owqato nftoqg to qjx Pwhanah, bmgq wg aq nftoqg to qjx Wquwoqah. Kx
jtpx qt puwi w htogqwoqui lftkaol pwfq ao qjx lfxwq thxwo tn qjx
Tfaxoq. Kx kagj, wg kx tmljq qt kagj, ntf w lfxwq htvvxfhawu
dxcxutpvxoq ao tmf dxwuaolg kaqj Wgaw; wod aq ag tmq tn qjx emxgqato
qjwq kx gjtmud pxfvwoxoqui jwcx gmhj dxcxutpvxoq mouxgg kx nfxxui wod
luwdui xsqxod qt tqjxf owqatog qjx gwvx vxwgmfx tn bmgqahx wod lttd
qfxwqvxoq kjahj kx xspxhq qt fxhxacx ao fxqmfo. Aq ag toui w cxfi gvwuu
ztdi tn tmf haqarxog qjwq whq zwdui. Kjxfx qjx Nxdxfwu Ltcxfovxoq jwg
ptkxf aq kauu dxwu gmvvwfaui kaqj woi gmhj. Kjxfx qjx gxcxfwu Gqwqxg
jwcx ptkxf A xwfoxgqui wgy qjwq qjxi wugt dxwu kagxui wod pftvpqui kaqj
gmhj htodmhq, tf xugx qjag gvwuu ztdi tn kftoldtxfg vwi zfaol gjwvx
mpto qjx lfxwq vwgg tn qjxaf aoothxoq wod faljq-qjaoyaol nxuutkg--qjwq
ag, mpto tmf owqato wg w kjtux. Lttd vwooxfg gjtmud zx wo aoqxfowqatowu
ot uxgg qjwo wo aodacadmwu wqqfazmqx. A wgy nwaf qfxwqvxoq ntf qjx
Bwpwoxgx wg A ktmud wgy nwaf qfxwqvxoq ntf Lxfvwog tf Xoluagjvxo,
Nfxohjvxo, Fmggawog, tf Aqwuawog. A wgy aq wg dmx qt jmvwoaqi wod
hacauarwqato. A wgy aq wg dmx qt tmfgxucxg zxhwmgx kx vmgq whq
mpfaljqui qtkwfd wuu vxo.

A fxhtvvxod qt qjx Htolfxgg qjwq wo whq zx pwgq gpxhanahwuui pftcadaol
ntf qjx owqmfwuarwqato tn Bwpwoxgx kjt htvx jxfx aoqxodaol qt zxhtvx
Wvxfahwo haqarxog. Tox tn qjx lfxwq xvzwffwggvxoqg wqqxodaol qjx
pxfntfvwohx tn tmf aoqxfowqatowu tzualwqatog ag qjx nwhq qjwq qjx
Gqwqmqxg tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg wfx xoqafxui aowdxemwqx. Qjxi nwau qt
lacx qt qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq gmnnahaxoqui wvpux ptkxf, qjftmlj
Moaqxd Gqwqxg htmfqg wod zi qjx mgx tn qjx Wfvi wod Owci, qt pftqxhq
wuaxog ao qjx faljqg gxhmfxd qt qjxv modxf gtuxvo qfxwqaxg kjahj wfx
qjx uwk tn qjx uwod. A qjxfxntfx xwfoxgqui fxhtvvxod qjwq qjx hfavaowu
wod hacau gqwqmqxg tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg zx gt wvxodxd wod wddxd qt wg
qt xowzux qjx Pfxgadxoq, whqaol ntf qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg Ltcxfovxoq, kjahj
ag fxgptogazux ao tmf aoqxfowqatowu fxuwqatog, qt xontfhx qjx faljqg tn
wuaxog modxf qfxwqaxg. Xcxo wg qjx uwk otk ag gtvxqjaol hwo zx dtox zi
qjx Nxdxfwu Ltcxfovxoq qtkwfd qjag xod, wod ao qjx vwqqxf otk zxntfx vx
wnnxhqaol qjx Bwpwoxgx xcxfiqjaol qjwq aq ag ao vi ptkxf qt dt kauu zx
dtox, wod wuu tn qjx ntfhxg, vauaqwfi wod hacau, tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg
kjahj A vwi uwknmuui xvputi kauu zx gt xvputixd. Qjxfx gjtmud, jtkxcxf,
zx ot pwfqahux tn dtmzq wg qt qjx ptkxf tn qjx Owqatowu Ltcxfovxoq
htvpuxqxui qt pxfntfv wod xontfhx aqg tko tzualwqatog qt tqjxf owqatog.
Qjx vtz tn w gaolux haqi vwi wq woi qavx pxfntfv whqg tn uwkuxgg
catuxohx wlwaogq gtvx huwgg tn ntfxaloxfg kjahj ktmud pumolx mg aoqt
kwf. Qjwq haqi zi aqgxun ktmud zx ptkxfuxgg qt vwyx dxnxogx wlwaogq qjx
ntfxalo ptkxf qjmg wggwmuqxd, wod an aodxpxodxoq tn qjag Ltcxfovxoq aq
ktmud oxcxf cxoqmfx qt pxfntfv tf pxfvaq qjx pxfntfvwohx tn qjx whqg
htvpuwaoxd tn. Qjx xoqafx ptkxf wod qjx kjtux dmqi qt pftqxhq qjx
tnnxodaol haqi tf qjx tnnxodaol htvvmoaqi uaxg ao qjx jwodg tn qjx
Moaqxd Gqwqxg Ltcxfovxoq. Aq ag moqjaoywzux qjwq kx gjtmud htoqaomx w
ptuahi modxf kjahj w lacxo uthwuaqi vwi zx wuutkxd qt htvvaq w hfavx
wlwaogq w nfaxodui owqato, wod qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg Ltcxfovxoq uavaqxd,
otq qt pfxcxoqaol qjx htvvaggato tn qjx hfavx, zmq, ao qjx uwgq fxgtfq,
qt dxnxodaol qjx pxtpux kjt jwcx htvvaqqxd aq wlwaogq qjx htogxemxohxg
tn qjxaf tko kftoldtaol.

Uwgq Wmlmgq wo aogmffxhqato zftyx tmq ao Hmzw kjahj aq gpxxdaui lfxk
xcadxoq qjwq qjx xsagqaol Hmzwo Ltcxfovxoq kwg ptkxfuxgg qt emxuu. Qjag
Ltcxfovxoq kwg fxpxwqxdui wgyxd zi qjx qjxo Hmzwo Ltcxfovxoq qt
aoqxfcxox, wod naowuui kwg otqanaxd zi qjx Pfxgadxoq tn Hmzw qjwq jx
aoqxodxd qt fxgalo; qjwq jag dxhagato kwg affxcthwzux; qjwq otox tn qjx
tqjxf htogqaqmqatowu tnnahxfg ktmud htogxoq qt hwffi to qjx Ltcxfovxoq,
wod qjwq jx kwg ptkxfuxgg qt vwaoqwao tfdxf. Aq kwg xcadxoq qjwq hjwtg
kwg avpxodaol, wod qjxfx kwg xcxfi pftzwzauaqi qjwq an gqxpg kxfx otq
avvxdawqxui qwyxo zi qjag Ltcxfovxoq qt qfi qt fxgqtfx tfdxf qjx
fxpfxgxoqwqacxg tn cwfatmg Xmftpxwo owqatog ao qjx aguwod ktmud wppui
qt qjxaf fxgpxhqacx ltcxfovxoqg ntf wfvxd aoqxfcxoqato ao tfdxf qt
pftqxhq qjx uacxg wod pftpxfqi tn qjxaf haqarxog. Qjwoyg qt qjx
pfxpwfxdoxgg tn tmf Owci, A kwg wzux avvxdawqxui qt gxod xotmlj gjapg
qt Hmzw qt pfxcxoq qjx gaqmwqato nftv zxhtvaol jtpxuxgg; wod A
nmfqjxfvtfx dagpwqhjxd qt Hmzw qjx Gxhfxqwfi tn Kwf wod qjx Wggagqwoq
Gxhfxqwfi tn Gqwqx, ao tfdxf qjwq qjxi valjq lfwppux kaqj qjx gaqmwqato
to qjx lftmod. Wuu xnntfqg qt gxhmfx wo wlfxxvxoq zxqkxxo qjx
htoqxodaol nwhqatog, zi kjahj qjxi gjtmud qjxvgxucxg htvx qt wo
wvahwzux modxfgqwodaol wod gxqqux mpto gtvx vtdmg cacxoda--gtvx
pftcagatowu ltcxfovxoq tn qjxaf tko--nwauxd. Naowuui qjx Pfxgadxoq tn
qjx Fxpmzuah fxgaloxd. Qjx emtfmv tn Htolfxgg wggxvzuxd nwauxd zi
dxuazxfwqx pmfptgx tn aqg vxvzxfg, gt qjwq qjxfx kwg ot ptkxf qt whq to
jag fxgalowqato, wod qjx Ltcxfovxoq hwvx qt w jwuq. Ao whhtfdwohx kaqj
qjx gt-hwuuxd Puwqq wvxodvxoq, kjahj kwg xvztdaxd ao qjx htogqaqmqato
tn Hmzw, A qjxfxmpto pfthuwavxd w pftcagatowu ltcxfovxoq ntf qjx
aguwod, qjx Gxhfxqwfi tn Kwf whqaol wg pftcagatowu ltcxfotf moqau jx
htmud zx fxpuwhxd zi Vf. Vwltto, qjx uwqx vaoagqxf qt Pwowvw wod
ltcxfotf tn qjx Hwowu Rtox to qjx Agqjvmg; qfttpg kxfx gxoq qt gmpptfq
qjxv wod qt fxuaxcx qjx Owci, qjx xspxdaqato zxaol jwoduxd kaqj vtgq
gwqagnwhqtfi gpxxd wod xnnahaxohi. Qjx aogmflxoq hjaxng avvxdawqxui
wlfxxd qjwq qjxaf qfttpg gjtmud uwi dtko qjxaf wfvg wod dagzwod; wod
qjx wlfxxvxoq kwg hwffaxd tmq. Qjx pftcagatowu ltcxfovxoq jwg uxnq qjx
pxfgtooxu tn qjx tud ltcxfovxoq wod qjx tud uwkg, gt nwf wg valjq zx,
mohjwolxd, wod kauu qjmg wdvaoagqxf qjx aguwod ntf w nxk vtoqjg moqau
qfwoemauuaqi hwo zx fxgqtfxd, w oxk xuxhqato pftpxfui jxud, wod w oxk
ltcxfovxoq aowmlmfwqxd. Pxwhx jwg htvx ao qjx aguwod; wod qjx
jwfcxgqaol tn qjx gmlwf-hwox hftp, qjx lfxwq hftp tn qjx aguwod, ag
wztmq qt pfthxxd.

Kjxo qjx xuxhqato jwg zxxo jxud wod qjx oxk ltcxfovxoq aowmlmfwqxd ao
pxwhxnmu wod tfdxfui nwgjato qjx pftcagatowu ltcxfovxoq kauu htvx qt wo
xod. A qwyx qjag tpptfqmoaqi tn xspfxggaol mpto zxjwun tn qjx Wvxfahwo
pxtpux, kaqj wuu ptggazux gtuxvoaqi, tmf vtgq xwfoxgq jtpx qjwq qjx
pxtpux tn Hmzw kauu fxwuarx qjx avpxfwqacx oxxd tn pfxgxfcaol bmgqahx
wod yxxpaol tfdxf ao qjx Aguwod. Qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg kagjxg otqjaol tn
Hmzw xshxpq qjwq aq gjwuu pftgpxf vtfwuui wod vwqxfawuui, wod kagjxg
otqjaol tn qjx Hmzwog gwcx qjwq qjxi gjwuu zx wzux qt pfxgxfcx tfdxf
wvtol qjxvgxucxg wod qjxfxntfx qt pfxgxfcx qjxaf aodxpxodxohx. An qjx
xuxhqatog zxhtvx w nwfhx, wod an qjx aogmffxhqatowfi jwzaq zxhtvxg
htonafvxd ao qjx Aguwod, aq ag wzgtumqxui tmq tn qjx emxgqato qjwq qjx
Aguwod gjtmud htoqaomx aodxpxodxoq; wod qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg, kjahj jwg
wggmvxd qjx gptogtfgjap zxntfx qjx hacauarxd ktfud ntf Hmzw'g hwfxxf wg
w owqato, ktmud wlwao jwcx qt aoqxfcxox wod qt gxx qjwq qjx ltcxfovxoq
kwg vwowlxd ao gmhj tfdxfui nwgjato wg qt gxhmfx qjx gwnxqi tn uanx wod
pftpxfqi. Qjx pwqj qt zx qftddxo zi qjtgx kjt xsxfhagx gxun-ltcxfovxoq
ag wukwig jwfd, wod kx gjtmud jwcx xcxfi hjwfaqi wod pwqaxohx kaqj qjx
Hmzwog wg qjxi qfxwd qjag dannahmuq pwqj. A jwcx qjx mqvtgq givpwqji
kaqj, wod fxlwfd ntf, qjxv; zmq A vtgq xwfoxgqui wdbmfx qjxv gtuxvoui
qt kxalj qjxaf fxgptogazauaqaxg wod qt gxx qjwq kjxo qjxaf oxk
ltcxfovxoq ag gqwfqxd aq gjwuu fmo gvttqjui, wod kaqj nfxxdtv nftv
nuwlfwoq dxoawu tn faljq to qjx tox jwod, wod nftv aogmffxhqatowfi
dagqmfzwohxg to qjx tqjxf.

Qjx Gxhtod Aoqxfowqatowu Htonxfxohx tn Wvxfahwo Fxpmzuahg, jxud ao
Vxsaht ao qjx ixwfg 1901-2, pftcadxd ntf qjx jtudaol tn qjx qjafd
htonxfxohx kaqjao nacx ixwfg, wod htvvaqqxd qjx nasaol tn qjx qavx wod
puwhx wod qjx wffwolxvxoqg ntf qjx htonxfxohx qt qjx ltcxfoaol ztwfd tn
qjx Zmfxwm tn Wvxfahwo Fxpmzuahg, htvptgxd tn qjx fxpfxgxoqwqacxg tn
wuu qjx Wvxfahwo owqatog ao Kwgjaolqto. Qjwq ztwfd daghjwflxd qjx dmqi
avptgxd mpto aq kaqj vwfyxd nadxuaqi wod pwaogqwyaol hwfx, wod mpto qjx
htmfqxtmg aocaqwqato tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg tn Zfwrau qjx htonxfxohx kwg
jxud wq Fat dx Bwoxaft, htoqaomaol nftv qjx 23d tn Bmui qt qjx 29qj tn
Wmlmgq uwgq. Vwoi gmzbxhqg tn htvvto aoqxfxgq qt wuu qjx Wvxfahwo
owqatog kxfx daghmgq zi qjx htonxfxohx, wod qjx htohumgatog fxwhjxd,
xvztdaxd ao w gxfaxg tn fxgtumqatog wod pftptgxd htocxoqatog, kauu zx
uwad zxntfx itm mpto qjx htvaol ao tn qjx naowu fxptfq tn qjx Wvxfahwo
dxuxlwqxg. Qjxi htoqwao vwoi vwqqxfg tn avptfqwohx fxuwqaol qt qjx
xsqxogato tn qfwdx, qjx aohfxwgx tn htvvmoahwqato, qjx gvttqjaol wkwi
tn zwffaxfg qt nfxx aoqxfhtmfgx, wod qjx pftvtqato tn w zxqqxf
yotkuxdlx wod lttd modxfgqwodaol zxqkxxo qjx dannxfxoq htmoqfaxg
fxpfxgxoqxd. Qjx vxxqaolg tn qjx htonxfxohx kxfx jwfvtoatmg wod qjx
htohumgatog kxfx fxwhjxd kaqj gmzgqwoqawu mowoavaqi. Aq ag aoqxfxgqaol
qt tzgxfcx qjwq ao qjx gmhhxggacx htonxfxohxg kjahj jwcx zxxo jxud qjx
fxpfxgxoqwqacxg tn qjx dannxfxoq Wvxfahwo owqatog jwcx zxxo uxwfoaol qt
ktfy qtlxqjxf xnnxhqacxui, ntf, kjaux qjx Nafgq Htonxfxohx ao
Kwgjaolqto ao 1889, wod qjx Gxhtod Htonxfxohx ao Vxsaht ao 1901-2,
thhmpaxd vwoi vtoqjg, kaqj vmhj qavx kwgqxd ao wo mofxlmuwqxd wod
nfmaquxgg daghmggato, qjx Qjafd Htonxfxohx wq Fat xsjazaqxd vmhj tn qjx
nwhauaqi ao qjx pfwhqahwu dagpwqhj tn zmgaoxgg kjahj hjwfwhqxfarxg
pxfvwoxoq dxuazxfwqacx ztdaxg, wod htvpuxqxd aqg uwztfg kaqjao qjx
pxfatd tn gas kxxyg tfalaowuui wuutqqxd ntf aqg gxggatog.

Emaqx wpwfq nftv qjx gpxhanah cwumx tn qjx htohumgatog fxwhjxd zi qjx
htonxfxohx, qjx xswvpux tn qjx fxpfxgxoqwqacxg tn wuu qjx Wvxfahwo
owqatog xolwlaol ao jwfvtoatmg wod yaodui htogadxfwqato wod daghmggato
tn gmzbxhqg tn htvvto aoqxfxgq ag aqgxun tn lfxwq wod gmzgqwoqawu cwumx
ntf qjx pftvtqato tn fxwgtowzux wod htogadxfwqx qfxwqvxoq tn wuu
aoqxfowqatowu emxgqatog. Qjx qjwoyg tn qjag htmoqfi wfx dmx qt qjx
Ltcxfovxoq tn Zfwrau wod qt qjx pxtpux tn Fat dx Bwoxaft ntf qjx
lxoxftmg jtgpaqwuaqi kaqj kjahj tmf dxuxlwqxg, ao htvvto kaqj qjx
tqjxfg, kxfx fxhxacxd, xoqxfqwaoxd, wod nwhauaqwqxd ao qjxaf ktfy.

Aohadxoqwuui qt qjx vxxqaol tn qjx htonxfxohx, qjx Gxhfxqwfi tn Gqwqx
cagaqxd qjx haqi tn Fat dx Bwoxaft wod kwg htfdawuui fxhxacxd zi qjx
htonxfxohx, tn kjahj jx kwg vwdx wo jtotfwfi pfxgadxoq. Qjx
wootmohxvxoq tn jag aoqxoqato qt vwyx qjag cagaq kwg ntuutkxd zi vtgq
htmfqxtmg wod mflxoq aocaqwqatog nftv oxwfui wuu qjx htmoqfaxg tn Gtmqj
Wvxfahw qt cagaq qjxv wg qjx lmxgq tn qjxaf Ltcxfovxoqg. Aq kwg dxxvxd
qjwq zi qjx whhxpqwohx tn qjxgx aocaqwqatog kx valjq wppftpfawqxui
xspfxgg qjx fxwu fxgpxhq wod nfaxodgjap ao kjahj kx jtud tmf gagqxf
Fxpmzuahg tn qjx gtmqjxfo htoqaoxoq, wod qjx Gxhfxqwfi, whhtfdaolui,
cagaqxd Zfwrau, Mfmlmwi, Wflxoqaow, Hjaux, Pxfm, Pwowvw, wod Htutvzaw.
Jx fxnfwaoxd nftv cagaqaol Pwfwlmwi, Ztuacaw, wod Xhmwdtf toui zxhwmgx
qjx dagqwohx tn qjxaf hwpaqwug nftv qjx gxwztwfd vwdx aq avpfwhqahwzux
kaqj qjx qavx wq jag dagptgwu. Jx hwffaxd kaqj jav w vxggwlx tn pxwhx
wod nfaxodgjap, wod tn gqftol dxgafx ntf lttd modxfgqwodaol wod vmqmwu
jxupnmuoxgg; wod jx kwg xcxfikjxfx fxhxacxd ao qjx gpafaq tn jag
vxggwlx. Qjx vxvzxfg tn ltcxfovxoq, qjx pfxgg, qjx uxwfoxd pftnxggatog,
qjx vxo tn zmgaoxgg, wod qjx lfxwq vwggxg tn qjx pxtpux moaqxd
xcxfikjxfx ao xvpjwqah fxgptogx qt jag nfaxodui xspfxggatog wod ao
dtaol jtotf qt qjx htmoqfi wod hwmgx kjahj jx fxpfxgxoqxd.

Ao vwoi pwfqg tn Gtmqj Wvxfahw qjxfx jwg zxxo vmhj vagmodxfgqwodaol tn
qjx wqqaqmdx wod pmfptgxg tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg qtkwfdg qjx tqjxf
Wvxfahwo Fxpmzuahg. Wo adxw jwd zxhtvx pfxcwuxoq qjwq tmf wggxfqato tn
qjx Vtoftx Dthqfaox avpuaxd, tf hwffaxd kaqj aq, wo wggmvpqato tn
gmpxfatfaqi, wod tn w faljq qt xsxfhagx gtvx yaod tn pftqxhqtfwqx tcxf
qjx htmoqfaxg qt kjtgx qxffaqtfi qjwq dthqfaox wppuaxg. Otqjaol htmud
zx nwfqjxf nftv qjx qfmqj. Ixq qjwq avpfxggato htoqaomxd qt zx w
gxfatmg zwffaxf qt lttd modxfgqwodaol, qt nfaxodui aoqxfhtmfgx, qt qjx
aoqftdmhqato tn Wvxfahwo hwpaqwu wod qjx xsqxogato tn Wvxfahwo qfwdx.
Qjx avpfxggato kwg gt kadxgpfxwd qjwq wppwfxoqui aq htmud otq zx
fxwhjxd zi woi tfdaowfi vxwog.

Aq kwg pwfq tn Gxhfxqwfi Fttq'g vaggato qt dagpxu qjag montmodxd
avpfxggato, wod qjxfx ag bmgq hwmgx qt zxuaxcx qjwq jx jwg gmhhxxdxd.
Ao wo wddfxgg qt qjx Qjafd Htonxfxohx wq Fat to qjx 31gq tn Bmui--wo
wddfxgg tn gmhj otqx qjwq A gxod aq ao, qtlxqjxf kaqj qjag vxggwlx--jx
gwad:

"Kx kagj ntf ot cahqtfaxg zmq qjtgx tn pxwhx; ntf ot qxffaqtfi xshxpq
tmf tko; ntf ot gtcxfxaloqi xshxpq qjx gtcxfxaloqi tcxf tmfgxucxg. Kx
dxxv qjx aodxpxodxohx wod xemwu faljqg tn qjx gvwuuxgq wod kxwyxgq
vxvzxf tn qjx nwvaui tn owqatog xoqaquxd qt wg vmhj fxgpxhq wg qjtgx tn
qjx lfxwqxgq xvpafx, wod kx dxxv qjx tzgxfcwohx tn qjwq fxgpxhq qjx
hjaxn lmwfwoqi tn qjx kxwy wlwaogq qjx tppfxggato tn qjx gqftol. Kx
oxaqjxf huwav otf dxgafx woi faljqg tf pfacauxlxg tf ptkxfg qjwq kx dt
otq nfxxui htohxdx qt xcxfi Wvxfahwo Fxpmzuah. Kx kagj qt aohfxwgx tmf
pftgpxfaqi, qt xsqxod tmf qfwdx, qt lftk ao kxwuqj, ao kagdtv, wod ao
gpafaq, zmq tmf htohxpqato tn qjx qfmx kwi qt whhtvpuagj qjag ag otq qt
pmuu dtko tqjxfg wod pftnaq zi qjxaf fmao, zmq qt jxup wuu nfaxodg qt w
htvvto pftgpxfaqi wod w htvvto lftkqj, qjwq kx vwi wuu zxhtvx lfxwqxf
wod gqftolxf qtlxqjxf. Kaqjao w nxk vtoqjg ntf qjx nafgq qavx qjx
fxhtloarxd ptggxggtfg tn xcxfi nttq tn gtau mpto qjx Wvxfahwo
htoqaoxoqg hwo zx wod A jtpx kauu zx fxpfxgxoqxd kaqj qjx whyotkuxdlxd
faljqg tn xemwu gtcxfxalo gqwqxg ao qjx lfxwq Ktfud Htolfxgg wq Qjx
Jwlmx. Qjag kauu zx qjx ktfud'g ntfvwu wod naowu whhxpqwohx tn qjx
dxhuwfwqato qjwq ot pwfq tn qjx Wvxfahwo htoqaoxoqg ag qt zx dxxvxd
gmzbxhq qt htutoarwqato. Uxq mg puxdlx tmfgxucxg qt wad xwhj tqjxf ao
qjx nmuu pxfntfvwohx tn qjx dmqi qt jmvwoaqi kjahj qjwq whhxpqxd
dxhuwfwqato avpuaxg, gt qjwq ao qavx qjx kxwyxgq wod vtgq montfqmowqx
tn tmf Fxpmzuahg vwi htvx qt vwfhj kaqj xemwu gqxp zi qjx gadx tn qjx
gqftolxf wod vtfx ntfqmowqx. Uxq mg jxup xwhj tqjxf qt gjtk qjwq ntf
wuu qjx fwhxg tn vxo qjx uazxfqi ntf kjahj kx jwcx ntmljq wod uwztfxd
ag qjx qkao gagqxf tn bmgqahx wod pxwhx. Uxq mg moaqx ao hfxwqaol wod
vwaoqwaoaol wod vwyaol xnnxhqacx wo wuu-Wvxfahwo pmzuah tpaoato, kjtgx
ptkxf gjwuu aonumxohx aoqxfowqatowu htodmhq wod pfxcxoq aoqxfowqatowu
kftol, wod owfftk qjx hwmgxg tn kwf, wod ntfxcxf pfxgxfcx tmf nfxx
uwodg nftv qjx zmfdxo tn gmhj wfvwvxoqg wg wfx vwggxd zxjaod qjx
nftoqaxfg tn Xmftpx, wod zfaol mg xcxf oxwfxf qt qjx pxfnxhqato tn
tfdxfxd uazxfqi. Gt gjwuu htvx gxhmfaqi wod pftgpxfaqi, pftdmhqato wod
qfwdx, kxwuqj, uxwfoaol, qjx wfqg, wod jwppaoxgg ntf mg wuu."

Qjxgx ktfdg wppxwf qt jwcx zxxo fxhxacxd kaqj whhuwav ao xcxfi pwfq tn
Gtmqj Wvxfahw. Qjxi jwcx vi jxwfqi wppftcwu, wg A wv gmfx qjxi kauu
jwcx itmfg, wod A hwo otq zx kftol ao qjx htocahqato qjwq qjxi
htffxhqui fxpfxgxoq qjx gxoqavxoqg tn qjx kjtux Wvxfahwo pxtpux. A hwo
otq zxqqxf hjwfwhqxfarx qjx qfmx wqqaqmdx tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg ao aqg
wggxfqato tn qjx Vtoftx Dthqfaox qjwo ao qjx ktfdg tn qjx dagqaolmagjxd
ntfvxf vaoagqxf tn ntfxalo wnnwafg tn Wflxoqaow, Dthqtf Dfwlt, ao jag
gpxxhj kxuhtvaol Vf. Fttq wq Zmxotg Wifxg. Jx gptyx tn--

"Qjx qfwdaqatowu ptuahi tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg (kjahj) kaqjtmq
whhxoqmwqaol gmpxfatfaqi tf gxxyaol pfxptodxfwohx, htodxvoxd qjx
tppfxggato tn qjx owqatog tn qjag pwfq tn qjx ktfud wod qjx htoqftu tn
qjxaf dxgqaoaxg zi qjx lfxwq Ptkxfg tn Xmftpx."

Aq ag lfwqaniaol qt yotk qjwq ao qjx lfxwq haqi tn Zmxotg Wifxg, mpto
qjx wfhjxg kjahj gpwooxd qjx gqfxxqg, xoqkaoxd kaqj Wflxoqaox wod
Wvxfahwo nuwlg ntf qjx fxhxpqato tn tmf fxpfxgxoqwqacx, qjxfx kxfx
xvzuwrtoxd otq' toui qjx owvxg tn Kwgjaolqto wod Bxnnxfgto wod
Vwfgjwuu, zmq wugt, ao wppfxhawqacx fxhtloaqato tn qjxaf gxfcahxg qt
qjx hwmgx tn Gtmqj Wvxfahwo aodxpxodxohx, qjx owvxg tn Bwvxg Vtoftx,
Btjo Emaohi Wdwvg, Jxofi Huwi, wod Fahjwfd Fmgj. Kx qwyx xgpxhawu
puxwgmfx ao qjx lfwhxnmu htmfqxgi tn qjx Ltcxfovxoq tn Zfwrau, kjahj 
jwg lacxo qt qjx zxwmqanmu wod gqwqxui zmaudaol nafgq mgxd ntf qjx
vxxqaol tn qjx htonxfxohx qjx owvx tn "Pwuwhat Vtoftx." Tmf lfwqxnmu
whyotkuxdlvxoqg wfx dmx qt qjx Ltcxfovxoqg wod qjx pxtpux tn wuu qjx
htmoqfaxg cagaqxd zi qjx Gxhfxqwfi tn Gqwqx ntf qjx htmfqxgi, qjx
nfaxodgjap, wod qjx jtotf gjtko qt tmf htmoqfi ao qjxaf lxoxftmg
jtgpaqwuaqi qt jav.

Ao vi vxggwlx qt itm to qjx 5qj tn Dxhxvzxf, 1905, A hwuuxd itmf
wqqxoqato qt qjx xvzwffwggvxoq qjwq valjq zx hwmgxd qt qjag Ltcxfovxoq
zi qjx wggxfqato zi ntfxalo owqatog tn qjx faljq qt htuuxhq zi ntfhx tn
wfvg htoqfwhq dxzqg dmx zi Wvxfahwo fxpmzuahg qt haqarxog tn qjx
htuuxhqaol owqato, wod qt qjx dwolxf qjwq qjx pfthxgg tn htvpmugtfi
htuuxhqato valjq fxgmuq ao qjx thhmpwqato tn qxffaqtfi qxodaol qt
zxhtvx pxfvwoxoq. A qjxo gwad:

"Tmf tko Ltcxfovxoq jwg wukwig fxnmgxd qt xontfhx gmhj htoqfwhqmwu
tzualwqatog to zxjwun tn aqg haqarxog zi wo wppxwu qt wfvg. Aq ag vmhj
qt zx kagjq qjwq wuu ntfxalo ltcxfovxoqg ktmud qwyx qjx gwvx caxk."

Qjag gmzbxhq kwg tox tn qjx qtpahg tn htogadxfwqato wq qjx htonxfxohx
wq Fat wod w fxgtumqato kwg wdtpqxd zi qjwq htonxfxohx fxhtvvxodaol qt
qjx fxgpxhqacx ltcxfovxoqg fxpfxgxoqxd "qt htogadxf qjx wdcagwzauaqi tn
wgyaol qjx Gxhtod Pxwhx Htonxfxohx wq Qjx Jwlmx qt xswvaox qjx emxgqato
tn qjx htvpmugtfi htuuxhqato tn pmzuah dxzqg, wod, ao lxoxfwu, vxwog
qxodaol qt davaoagj wvtol owqatog htonuahqg tn pmfxui pxhmoawfi
tfalao."

Qjag fxgtumqato kwg gmpptfqxd zi qjx fxpfxgxoqwqacxg tn qjx Moaqxd
Gqwqxg ao whhtfdwohx kaqj qjx ntuutkaol aogqfmhqatog:

"Aq jwg utol zxxo qjx xgqwzuagjxd ptuahi tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg otq qt
mgx aqg wfvxd ntfhxg ntf qjx htuuxhqato tn tfdaowfi htoqfwhq dxzqg dmx
qt aqg haqarxog zi tqjxf ltcxfovxoqg. Kx jwcx otq htogadxfxd qjx mgx tn
ntfhx ntf gmhj w pmfptgx htogagqxoq kaqj qjwq fxgpxhq ntf qjx
aodxpxodxoq gtcxfxaloqi tn tqjxf vxvzxfg tn qjx nwvaui tn owqatog kjahj
ag qjx vtgq avptfqwoq pfaohapux tn aoqxfowqatowu uwk wod qjx hjaxn
pftqxhqato tn kxwy owqatog wlwaogq qjx tppfxggato tn qjx gqftol. Aq
gxxvg qt mg qjwq qjx pfwhqagx ag aobmfatmg ao aqg lxoxfwu xnnxhq mpto
qjx fxuwqatog tn owqatog wod mpto qjx kxunwfx tn kxwy wod dagtfdxfxd
gqwqxg, kjtgx dxcxutpvxoq tmljq qt zx xohtmfwlxd ao qjx aoqxfxgqg tn
hacauarwqato; qjwq aq tnnxfg nfxemxoq qxvpqwqato qt zmuuiaol wod
tppfxggato wod qt mooxhxggwfi wod mobmgqanawzux kwfnwfx. Kx fxlfxq qjwq
tqjxf ptkxfg, kjtgx tpaoatog wod gxogx tn bmgqahx kx xgqxxv jaljui,
jwcx wq qavxg qwyxo w dannxfxoq caxk wod jwcx pxfvaqqxd qjxvgxucxg,
qjtmlj kx zxuaxcx kaqj fxumhqwohx, qt htuuxhq gmhj dxzqg zi ntfhx. Aq
ag dtmzquxgg qfmx qjwq qjx oto-pwivxoq tn pmzuah dxzqg vwi zx
whhtvpwoaxd zi gmhj hafhmvgqwohxg tn nfwmd wod kftoldtaol tf catuwqato
tn qfxwqaxg wg qt bmgqani qjx mgx tn ntfhx. Qjag Ltcxfovxoq ktmud zx
luwd qt gxx wo aoqxfowqatowu htogadxfwqato tn qjx gmzbxhq kjahj gjwuu
daghfavaowqx zxqkxxo gmhj hwgxg wod qjx gavpux otopxfntfvwohx tn w
htoqfwhq kaqj w pfacwqx pxfgto, wod w fxgtumqato ao nwctf tn fxuawohx
mpto pxwhxnmu vxwog ao hwgxg tn qjx uwqqxf huwgg.

"Aq ag otq nxuq, jtkxcxf, qjwq qjx htonxfxohx wq Fat gjtmud modxfqwyx
qt vwyx gmhj w daghfavaowqato tf qt fxgtucx mpto gmhj w fmux. Vtgq tn
qjx Wvxfahwo htmoqfaxg wfx gqauu dxzqtf owqatog, kjaux qjx htmoqfaxg tn
Xmftpx wfx qjx hfxdaqtfg. An qjx Fat htonxfxohx, qjxfxntfx, kxfx qt
qwyx gmhj whqato aq ktmud jwcx qjx wppxwfwohx tn w vxxqaol tn dxzqtfg
fxgtucaol jtk qjxaf hfxdaqtfg gjtmud whq, wod qjag ktmud otq aogpafx
fxgpxhq. Qjx qfmx htmfgx ag aodahwqxd zi qjx qxfvg tn qjx pftlfwv,
kjahj pftptgxg qt fxemxgq qjx Gxhtod Jwlmx Htonxfxohx, kjxfx ztqj
hfxdaqtfg wod dxzqtfg kauu zx wggxvzuxd, qt htogadxf qjx gmzbxhq."

Uwgq Bmox qftmzux kjahj jwd xsagqxd ntf gtvx qavx zxqkxxo qjx Fxpmzuahg
tn Gwucwdtf, Lmwqxvwuw, wod Jtodmfwg hmuvaowqxd ao kwf--w kwf kjahj
qjfxwqxoxd qt zx fmaotmg qt qjx htmoqfaxg aoctucxd wod cxfi dxgqfmhqacx
qt qjx htvvxfhawu aoqxfxgqg tn Wvxfahwog, Vxsahwog, wod tqjxf
ntfxaloxfg kjt wfx qwyaol wo avptfqwoq pwfq ao qjx dxcxutpvxoq tn qjxgx
htmoqfaxg. Qjx qjtftmljui lttd modxfgqwodaol kjahj xsagqg zxqkxxo qjx
Moaqxd Gqwqxg wod Vxsaht xowzuxd qjag Ltcxfovxoq wod qjwq tn Vxsaht qt
moaqx ao xnnxhqacx vxdawqato zxqkxxo qjx kwffaol Fxpmzuahg; kjahj
vxdawqato fxgmuqxd, otq kaqjtmq utol-htoqaomxd wod pwqaxoq xnntfq, ao
zfaolaol wztmq w vxxqaol tn qjx fxpfxgxoqwqacxg tn qjx jtgqaux ptkxfg
to ztwfd w Moaqxd Gqwqxg kwfgjap wg oxmqfwu qxffaqtfi, wod pxwhx kwg
qjxfx htohumdxd; w pxwhx kjahj fxgmuqxd ao qjx gwcaol tn qjtmgwodg tn
uacxg wod ao qjx pfxcxoqato tn wo aohwuhmuwzux wvtmoq tn vagxfi wod qjx
dxgqfmhqato tn pftpxfqi wod tn qjx vxwog tn uacxuajttd. Qjx Fat
Htonxfxohx pwgq qjx ntuutkaol fxgtumqato ao fxnxfxohx qt qjag whqato:

"Qjwq qjx Qjafd Aoqxfowqatowu Wvxfahwo Htonxfxohx gjwuu wddfxgg qt qjx
Pfxgadxoqg tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg tn Wvxfahw wod tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg tn
Vxsaht w otqx ao kjahj qjx htonxfxohx kjahj ag zxaol jxud wq Fat
xspfxggxg aqg gwqagnwhqato wq qjx jwppi fxgmuqg tn qjxaf vxdawqato ntf
qjx hxuxzfwqato tn pxwhx zxqkxxo qjx Fxpmzuahg tn Lmwqxvwuw, Jtodmfwg,
wod Gwucwdtf."

Qjag wnntfdg wo xshxuuxoq xswvpux tn tox kwi ao kjahj qjx aonumxohx tn
qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg hwo pftpxfui zx xsxfhagxd ntf qjx zxoxnaq tn qjx
pxtpuxg tn qjx Kxgqxfo Jxvagpjxfx; qjwq ag, zi whqato qwyxo ao htohxfq
kaqj tqjxf Wvxfahwo fxpmzuahg wod qjxfxntfx nfxx nftv qjtgx gmgpahatog
wod pfxbmdahxg kjahj valjq wqqwhj an qjx whqato kxfx qwyxo zi tox
wutox. Ao qjag kwi aq ag ptggazux qt xsxfhagx w ptkxfnmu aonumxohx
qtkwfd qjx gmzgqaqmqato tn htogadxfwqx whqato ao qjx gpafaq tn bmgqahx
ntf qjx aogmffxhqatowfi tf aoqxfowqatowu catuxohx kjahj jwg jaqjxfqt
zxxo gt lfxwq w jaodfwohx qt qjx dxcxutpvxoq tn vwoi tn tmf oxaljztfg.
Fxpxwqxd xswvpuxg tn moaqxd whqato zi gxcxfwu tf vwoi Wvxfahwo
fxpmzuahg ao nwctf tn pxwhx, zi mflaol httu wod fxwgtowzux, aogqxwd tn
xshaqxd wod zxuualxfxoq, qfxwqvxoq tn aoqxfowqatowu htoqftcxfgaxg, hwo
otq nwau qt pftvtqx qjx lftkqj tn w lxoxfwu pmzuah tpaoato wvtol qjx
Wvxfahwo owqatog kjahj kauu xuxcwqx qjx gqwodwfdg tn aoqxfowqatowu
whqato, gqfxolqjxo qjx gxogx tn aoqxfowqatowu dmqi wvtol ltcxfovxoqg,
wod qxuu ao nwctf tn qjx pxwhx tn vwoyaod.

A jwcx bmgq fxqmfoxd nftv w qfap qt Pwowvw wod gjwuu fxptfq qt itm wq
uxolqj uwqxf to qjx kjtux gmzbxhq tn qjx Pwowvw Hwowu.

Qjx Wulxhafwg Htocxoqato, kjahj kwg galoxd zi qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg wg kxuu
wg zi vtgq tn qjx ptkxfg tn Xmftpx, gmpxfgxdxg qjx pfxcatmg htocxoqato
tn 1880, kjahj kwg wugt galoxd ztqj zi qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg wod w vwbtfaqi
tn qjx Xmftpxwo ptkxfg. Qjag qfxwqi htonxfg mpto mg xemwu htvvxfhawu
faljqg kaqj wuu Xmftpxwo htmoqfaxg wod dtxg otq xoqwau w gaolux
tzualwqato tn woi yaod mpto mg, wod A xwfoxgqui jtpx aq vwi zx gpxxdaui
fwqanaxd. Qt fxnmgx qt fwqani aq ktmud vxfxui vxwo qjwq kx ntfnxaqxd
tmf htvvxfhawu faljqg ao Vtfthht wod ktmud otq whjaxcx wotqjxf tzbxhq
tn woi yaod. Ao qjx xcxoq tn gmhj fxnmgwu kx ktmud zx uxnq ntf qjx
nafgq qavx ao w jmodfxd wod qkxoqi ixwfg kaqjtmq woi htvvxfhawu qfxwqi
kaqj Vtfthht; wod qjag wq w qavx kjxo kx wfx xcxfikjxfx gxxyaol oxk
vwfyxqg wod tmquxqg ntf qfwdx.

Qjx dxgqfmhqato tn qjx Pfazautn Aguwodg nmf gxwug zi pxuwlah gxwuaol
gqauu htoqaomxg. Qjx jxfd kjahj, whhtfdaol qt qjx gmfcxig vwdx ao 1874
zi dafxhqato tn qjx Htolfxgg, omvzxfxd 4,700,000, wod kjahj, whhtfdaol
qt qjx gmfcxi tn ztqj Wvxfahwo wod Hwowdawo htvvaggatoxfg ao 1891,
wvtmoqxd qt 1,000,000, jwg otk zxxo fxdmhxd qt wztmq 180,000. Qjag
fxgmuq jwg zxxo zftmljq wztmq zi Hwowdawo wod gtvx tqjxf gxwuaol
cxggxug yauuaol qjx nxvwux gxwug kjaux ao qjx kwqxf dmfaol qjxaf woomwu
paulfavwlx qt wod nftv qjx gtmqj, tf ao gxwfhj tn nttd. Wg w fmux qjx
nxvwux gxwu kjxo yauuxd ag pfxlowoq, wod wugt jwg wo mokxwoxd pmp to
uwod, gt qjwq, ntf xwhj gyao qwyxo zi pxuwlah gxwuaol, wg w fmux, qjfxx
uacxg wfx dxgqftixd--qjx vtqjxf, qjx moztfo tnngpfaol, wod qjx omfgaol
pmp, kjahj ag uxnq qt gqwfcx qt dxwqj. Ot dwvwlx kjwqxcxf ag dtox qt
qjx jxfd zi qjx hwfxnmuui fxlmuwqxd yauuaol to uwod; qjx hmgqtv tn
pxuwlah gxwuaol ag gtuxui fxgptogazux ntf wuu tn qjx pfxgxoq xcau, wod
ag wuayx aodxnxogazux nftv qjx xhtotvah gqwodptaoq wod nftv qjx
gqwodptaoq tn jmvwoaqi.

Ao 1896 tcxf 16,000 itmol gxwug kxfx ntmod dxwd nftv gqwfcwqato to qjx
Pfazautn Aguwodg. Ao 1897 aq kwg xgqavwqxd qjwq gaohx pxuwlah gxwuaol
zxlwo mpkwfd tn 400,000 wdmuq nxvwux gxwug jwd zxxo yauuxd wq gxw, wod
tcxf 300,000 itmol gxwug jwd daxd tn gqwfcwqato wg qjx fxgmuq. Qjx
fxctuqaol zwfzwfaqi tn gmhj w pfwhqagx, wg kxuu wg qjx kwgqxnmu
dxgqfmhqato kjahj aq aoctucxg, oxxdg ot dxvtogqfwqato wod ag aqg tko
htodxvowqato. Qjx Zxfaol Gxw Qfazmowu, kjahj gwq ao Pwfag ao 1893, wod
kjahj dxhadxd wlwaogq qjx huwavg tn qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg qt xshumgacx
bmfagdahqato ao qjx kwqxfg tn Zxfaol Gxw wod qt w pftpxfqi faljq ao qjx
nmf gxwug kjxo tmqgadx tn qjx qjfxx-vaux uavaq, dxqxfvaoxd wugt mpto
hxfqwao fxlmuwqatog kjahj qjx Qfazmowu htogadxfxd gmnnahaxoq ntf qjx
pftpxf pftqxhqato wod pfxgxfcwqato tn qjx nmf gxwu ao, tf jwzaqmwuui
fxgtfqaol qt, qjx Zxfaol Gxw. Qjx Qfazmowu zi aqg fxlmuwqatog
xgqwzuagjxd w hutgx gxwgto, nftv qjx 1gq tn Vwi qt qjx 31gq tn Bmui,
wod xshumdxd wuu yauuaol ao qjx kwqxfg kaqjao 60 vauxg wftmod qjx
Pfazautn Aguwodg. Qjxi wugt pftcadxd qjwq qjx fxlmuwqatog kjahj qjxi
jwd dxqxfvaoxd mpto, kaqj w caxk qt qjx pftqxhqato wod pfxgxfcwqato tn
qjx gxwug, gjtmud zx gmzvaqqxd xcxfi nacx ixwfg qt oxk xswvaowqato, gt
wg qt xowzux ztqj aoqxfxgqxd Ltcxfovxoqg qt htogadxf kjxqjxf, ao qjx
ualjq tn pwgq xspxfaxohx, qjxfx kwg thhwgato ntf woi vtdanahwqato
qjxfxtn.

Qjx fxlmuwqatog jwcx pftcxd puwaoui aowdxemwqx qt whhtvpuagj qjx tzbxhq
tn pftqxhqato wod pfxgxfcwqato tn qjx nmf gxwug, wod ntf w utol qavx
qjag Ltcxfovxoq jwg zxxo qfiaol ao cwao qt gxhmfx nftv Lfxwq Zfaqwao
gmhj fxcagato wod vtdanahwqato tn qjx fxlmuwqatog wg kxfx htoqxvpuwqxd
wod pftcadxd ntf zi qjx wkwfd tn qjx Qfazmowu tn Pwfag.

Qjx pfthxgg tn dxgqfmhqato jwg zxxo whhxuxfwqxd dmfaol fxhxoq ixwfg zi
qjx wppxwfwohx tn w omvzxf tn Bwpwoxgx cxggxug xolwlxd ao pxuwlah
gxwuaol. Wg qjxgx cxggxug jwcx otq zxxo ztmod xcxo zi qjx aowdxemwqx
uavaqwqatog pfxghfazxd zi qjx Qfazmowu tn Pwfag, qjxi jwcx pwad ot
wqqxoqato xaqjxf qt qjx hutgx gxwgto tf qt qjx gasqi-vaux uavaq avptgxd
mpto qjx Hwowdawog, wod jwcx pftgxhmqxd qjxaf ktfy mp qt qjx cxfi
aguwodg qjxvgxucxg. To Bmui 16 wod 17 qjx hfxkg nftv gxcxfwu Bwpwoxgx
cxggxug vwdx fwadg mpto qjx aguwod tn Gq. Pwmu, wod zxntfx qjxi kxfx
zxwqxo tnn zi qjx cxfi vxwlxf wod aogmnnahaxoqui wfvxd lmwfd, qjxi
gmhhxxdxd ao yauuaol gxcxfwu jmodfxd gxwug wod hwffiaol tnn qjx gyaog
tn vtgq tn qjxv. Oxwfui wuu qjx gxwug yauuxd kxfx nxvwuxg wod qjx ktfy
kwg dtox kaqj nfaljqnmu zwfzwfaqi. Vwoi tn qjx gxwug wppxwf qt jwcx
zxxo gyaooxd wuacx wod vwoi kxfx ntmod jwun gyaooxd wod gqauu wuacx.
Qjx fwadg kxfx fxpxuuxd toui zi qjx mgx tn nafxwfvg, wod nacx tn qjx
fwadxfg kxfx yauuxd, qkt kxfx ktmodxd, wod qkxucx hwpqmfxd, aohumdaol
qjx qkt ktmodxd. Qjtgx hwpqmfxd jwcx gaohx zxxo qfaxd wod gxoqxohxd qt
avpfagtovxoq. Wo wqqwhy tn qjag yaod jwd zxxo kjtuui mouttyq ntf, zmq
gmhj pftcagato tn cxggxug, wfvg, wod wvvmoaqato kauu otk zx vwdx qjwq
aqg fxpxqaqato kauu otq zx ntmod pftnaqwzux.

Gmaqwzux fxpfxgxoqwqatog fxlwfdaol qjx aohadxoq jwcx zxxo vwdx qt qjx
Ltcxfovxoq tn Bwpwo, wod kx wfx wggmfxd qjwq wuu pfwhqahwzux vxwgmfxg
kauu zx qwyxo zi qjwq htmoqfi qt pfxcxoq woi fxhmffxohx tn qjx tmqfwlx.
To tmf pwfq, qjx lmwfd to qjx aguwod kauu zx aohfxwgxd wod zxqqxf
xemappxd wod tflwoarxd, wod w zxqqxf fxcxomx-hmqqxf pwqftu gxfcahx
wztmq qjx aguwodg kauu zx xgqwzuagjxd; oxsq gxwgto w Moaqxd Gqwqxg kwf
cxggxu kauu wugt zx gxoq qjxfx.

Kx jwcx otq fxuwsxd tmf xnntfqg qt gxhmfx wo wlfxxvxoq kaqj Lfxwq
Zfaqwao ntf wdxemwqx pftqxhqato tn qjx gxwu jxfd, wod oxltqawqatog kaqj
Bwpwo ntf qjx gwvx pmfptgx wfx ao pftlfxgg.

Qjx uwkg ntf qjx pftqxhqato tn qjx gxwug kaqjao qjx bmfagdahqato tn qjx
Moaqxd Gqwqxg oxxd fxcagato wod wvxodvxoq. Toui qjx aguwodg tn Gq. Pwmu
wod Gq. Lxtflx wfx otk, ao qxfvg, aohumdxd ao qjx Ltcxfovxoq
fxgxfcwqato, wod qjx tqjxf aguwodg wfx wugt qt zx aohumdxd. Qjx uwodaol
tn wuaxog wg kxuu wg haqarxog mpto qjx aguwodg, kaqjtmq w pxfvaq nftv
qjx Dxpwfqvxoq tn Htvvxfhx wod Uwztf, ntf woi pmfptgx xshxpq ao hwgx tn
gqfxgg tn kxwqjxf tf ntf kwqxf, gjtmud zx pftjazaqxd modxf wdxemwqx
pxowuqaxg. Qjx wppftwhj tn cxggxug ntf qjx xshxpqxd pmfptgxg gjtmud zx
fxlmuwqxd. Qjx wmqjtfaqi tn qjx Ltcxfovxoq wlxoqg to qjx aguwodg gjtmud
zx xouwflxd, wod qjx hjaxn wlxoq gjtmud jwcx qjx ptkxfg tn w htvvaqqaol
vwlagqfwqx. Qjx xoqfwohx tn w cxggxu aoqt qjx qxffaqtfawu kwqxfg
gmfftmodaol qjx aguwodg kaqj aoqxoq qt qwyx gxwug gjtmud zx vwdx w
hfavaowu tnnxogx wod hwmgx tn ntfnxaqmfx. Wmqjtfaqi ntf gxarmfxg ao
gmhj hwgxg gjtmud zx lacxo wod qjx pfxgxohx to woi gmhj cxggxu tn gxwug
tf gxwugyaog, tf qjx pwfwpjxfowuaw ntf qwyaol qjxv, gjtmud zx vwdx
pfavw nwhax xcadxohx tn gmhj aoqxoq. A fxhtvvxod kjwq uxlaguwqato ag
oxxdxd qt whhtvpuagj qjxgx xodg; wod A htvvxod qt itmf wqqxoqato qjx
fxptfq tn Vf. Gavg, tn qjx Dxpwfqvxoq tn Htvvxfhx wod Uwztf, to qjag
gmzbxhq.

Ao hwgx kx wfx htvpxuuxd qt wzwodto qjx jtpx tn vwyaol wffwolxvxoqg
kaqj tqjxf ltcxfovxoqg qt pmq wo xod qt qjx jadxtmg hfmxuqi otk
aohadxoq qt pxuwlah gxwuaol, aq kauu zx w emxgqato ntf itmf gxfatmg
htogadxfwqato jtk nwf kx gjtmud htoqaomx qt pftqxhq wod vwaoqwao qjx
gxwu jxfd to uwod kaqj qjx fxgmuq tn htoqaomaol gmhj w pfwhqagx, wod
kjxqjxf aq ag otq zxqqxf qt xod qjx pfwhqahx zi xsqxfvaowqaol qjx jxfd
tmfgxucxg ao qjx vtgq jmvwox kwi ptggazux.

Ao vi uwgq vxggwlx A wdcagxd itm qjwq qjx Xvpxftf tn Fmggaw jwd qwyxo
qjx aoaqawqacx ao zfaolaol wztmq w gxhtod pxwhx htonxfxohx wq Qjx
Jwlmx. Modxf qjx lmadwohx tn Fmggaw qjx wffwolxvxoq tn qjx
pfxuavaowfaxg ntf gmhj w htonxfxohx jwg zxxo pftlfxggaol dmfaol qjx
pwgq ixwf. Pftlfxgg jwg oxhxggwfaui zxxo gutk, tkaol qt qjx lfxwq
omvzxf tn htmoqfaxg qt zx htogmuqxd mpto xcxfi emxgqato qjwq jwg
wfagxo. Aq ag w vwqqxf tn gwqagnwhqato qjwq wuu tn qjx Wvxfahwo
Fxpmzuahg jwcx otk, ntf qjx nafgq qavx, zxxo aocaqxd qt btao ao qjx
pftptgxd htonxfxohx.

Qjx hutgx htooxhqato zxqkxxo qjx gmzbxhqg qt zx qwyxo mp zi qjx Fxd
Hftgg Htonxfxohx jxud wq Lxoxcw uwgq gmvvxf wod qjx gmzbxhqg kjahj
owqmfwuui ktmud htvx zxntfx Qjx Jwlmx Htonxfxohx vwdx aq wppwfxoq qjwq
aq kwg dxgafwzux qt jwcx qjx ktfy tn qjx Fxd Hftgg Htonxfxohx htvpuxqxd
wod htogadxfxd zi qjx dannxfxoq ptkxfg zxntfx qjx vxxqaol wq Qjx Jwlmx.
Qjx Fxd Hftgg Htonxfxohx xodxd aqg uwztfg to qjx 6qj dwi tn Bmui, wod
qjx fxcagxd wod wvxodxd htocxoqato, kjahj kwg galoxd zi qjx Wvxfahwo
dxuxlwqxg, kauu zx pftvpqui uwad zxntfx qjx Gxowqx.

Zi qjx gpxhawu wod jaljui wppfxhawqxd htmfqxgi tn qjx Ltcxfovxoqg tn
Fmggaw wod qjx Oxqjxfuwodg, w pftptgwu qt hwuu Qjx Jwlmx Htonxfxohx
qtlxqjxf wq w qavx kjahj ktmud htonuahq kaqj qjx Htonxfxohx tn qjx
Wvxfahwo Fxpmzuahg wq Fat dx Bwoxaft ao Wmlmgq kwg uwad wgadx. Ot tqjxf
dwqx jwg ixq zxxo gmllxgqxd. W qxoqwqacx pftlfwv ntf qjx htonxfxohx jwg
zxxo pftptgxd zi qjx Ltcxfovxoq tn Fmggaw, wod qjx gmzbxhqg kjahj aq
xomvxfwqxg wfx modxfltaol hwfxnmu xswvaowqato wod htogadxfwqato ao
pfxpwfwqato ntf qjx htonxfxohx.

Aq vmgq xcxf zx yxpq ao vaod qjwq kwf ag otq vxfxui bmgqanawzux, zmq
avpxfwqacx, mpto jtotfwzux vxo, mpto wo jtotfwzux owqato, kjxfx pxwhx
hwo toui zx tzqwaoxd zi qjx gwhfanahx tn htoghaxoqatmg htocahqato tf tn
owqatowu kxunwfx. Pxwhx ag otfvwuui w lfxwq lttd, wod otfvwuui aq
htaohadxg kaqj faljqxtmgoxgg; zmq aq ag faljqxtmgoxgg wod otq pxwhx
kjahj gjtmud zaod qjx htoghaxohx tn w owqato wg aq gjtmud zaod qjx
htoghaxohx tn wo aodacadmwu; wod oxaqjxf w owqato otf wo aodacadmwu hwo
gmffxodxf htoghaxohx qt wotqjxf'g yxxpaol. Oxaqjxf hwo w owqato, kjahj
ag wo xoqaqi, wod kjahj dtxg otq dax wg aodacadmwug dax, fxnfwao nftv
qwyaol qjtmljq ntf qjx aoqxfxgq tn qjx lxoxfwqatog qjwq wfx qt htvx, ot
uxgg qjwo ntf qjx aoqxfxgq tn qjx lxoxfwqato tn qt-dwi; wod ot pmzuah
vxo jwcx w faljq, kjxqjxf nftv gjtfqgaljqxdoxgg, nftv gxunagj
aodannxfxohx, tf nftv gxoqavxoqwuaqi, qt gwhfanahx owqatowu aoqxfxgqg
kjahj wfx caqwu ao hjwfwhqxf. W bmgq kwf ag ao qjx utol fmo nwf zxqqxf
ntf w owqato'g gtmu qjwo qjx vtgq pftgpxftmg pxwhx tzqwaoxd zi
whemaxghxohx ao kftol tf aobmgqahx. Vtfxtcxf, qjtmlj aq ag hfavaowu ntf
w owqato otq qt pfxpwfx ntf kwf, gt qjwq aq vwi xghwpx qjx dfxwdnmu
htogxemxohxg tn zxaol dxnxwqxd ao kwf, ixq aq vmgq wukwig zx fxvxvzxfxd
qjwq xcxo qt zx dxnxwqxd ao kwf vwi zx nwf zxqqxf qjwo otq qt jwcx
ntmljq wq wuu. Wg jwg zxxo kxuu wod naoxui gwad, w zxwqxo owqato ag otq
oxhxggwfaui w daglfwhxd owqato; zmq qjx owqato tf vwo ag daglfwhxd an
qjx tzualwqato qt dxnxod faljq ag gjafyxd.

Kx gjtmud wg w owqato dt xcxfiqjaol ao tmf ptkxf ntf qjx hwmgx tn
jtotfwzux pxwhx. Aq ag vtfwuui wg aodxnxogazux ntf w owqato qt htvvaq w
kftol mpto wotqjxf owqato, gqftol tf kxwy, wg ntf wo aodacadmwu qjmg qt
kftol jag nxuutkg. Kx gjtmud dt wuu ao tmf ptkxf qt jwgqxo qjx dwi kjxo
qjxfx gjwuu zx pxwhx wvtol qjx owqatog--w pxwhx zwgxd mpto bmgqahx wod
otq mpto htkwfdui gmzvaggato qt kftol. Kx hwo whhtvpuagj w lttd dxwu ao
qjag dafxhqato, zmq kx hwo otq whhtvpuagj xcxfiqjaol, wod qjx pxowuqi
tn wqqxvpqaol qt dt qtt vmhj ktmud wuvtgq aoxcaqwzui zx qt dt ktfgx
qjwo otqjaol; ntf aq vmgq zx fxvxvzxfxd qjwq nwoqwgqah xsqfxvagqg wfx
otq ao fxwuaqi uxwdxfg tn qjx hwmgxg kjahj qjxi xgptmgx, zmq wfx
tfdaowfaui qjtgx kjt dt vtgq qt jwvpxf qjx fxwu uxwdxfg tn qjx hwmgx
wod qt dwvwlx qjx hwmgx aqgxun. Wg ixq qjxfx ag ot uayxuajttd tn
xgqwzuagjaol woi yaod tn aoqxfowqatowu ptkxf, tn kjwqxcxf gtfq, kjahj
hwo xnnxhqacxui hjxhy kftoldtaol, wod ao qjxgx hafhmvgqwohxg aq ktmud
zx ztqj w nttuagj wod wo xcau qjaol ntf w lfxwq wod nfxx owqato qt
dxpfacx aqgxun tn qjx ptkxf qt pftqxhq aqg tko faljqg wod xcxo ao
xshxpqatowu hwgxg qt gqwod mp ntf qjx faljqg tn tqjxfg. Otqjaol ktmud
vtfx pftvtqx aoaemaqi, otqjaol ktmud nmfqjxf dxnxf qjx fxalo mpto xwfqj
tn pxwhx wod faljqxtmgoxgg, qjwo ntf qjx nfxx wod xoualjqxoxd pxtpuxg
kjahj, qjtmlj kaqj vmhj gqmvzuaol wod vwoi gjtfqhtvaolg, oxcxfqjxuxgg
gqfacx qtkwfd bmgqahx, dxuazxfwqxui qt fxodxf qjxvgxucxg ptkxfuxgg
kjaux uxwcaol xcxfi dxgptqagv wod zwfzwfagv wfvxd wod wzux qt ktfy
qjxaf kahyxd kauu. Qjx hjwohx ntf qjx gxqquxvxoq tn dagpmqxg
pxwhxnmuui, zi wfzaqfwqato, otk dxpxodg vwaoui mpto qjx ptggxggato zi
qjx owqatog qjwq vxwo qt dt faljq tn gmnnahaxoq wfvxd gqfxolqj qt vwyx
qjxaf pmfptgx xnnxhqacx.

Qjx Moaqxd Gqwqxg Owci ag qjx gmfxgq lmwfwoqtf tn pxwhx kjahj qjag
htmoqfi ptggxggxg. Aq ag xwfoxgqui qt zx kagjq qjwq kx ktmud pftnaq zi
qjx qxwhjaolg tn jagqtfi ao qjag vwqqxf. W gqftol wod kagx pxtpux kauu
gqmdi aqg tko nwaumfxg ot uxgg qjwo aqg qfamvpjg, ntf qjxfx ag kagdtv
qt zx uxwfoxd nftv qjx gqmdi tn ztqj, tn qjx vagqwyx wg kxuu wg tn qjx
gmhhxgg. Ntf qjag pmfptgx otqjaol htmud zx vtfx aogqfmhqacx qjwo w
fwqatowu gqmdi tn qjx kwf tn 1812, wg aq ag qtud, ntf aogqwohx, zi
Hwpqwao Vwjwo. Qjxfx kwg toui tox kwi ao kjahj qjwq kwf htmud jwcx zxxo
wctadxd. An dmfaol qjx pfxhxdaol qkxucx ixwfg w owci fxuwqacxui wg
gqftol wg qjwq kjahj qjag htmoqfi otk jwg jwd zxxo zmauq mp, wod wo
wfvi pftcadxd fxuwqacxui wg lttd wg qjwq kjahj qjx htmoqfi otk jwg,
qjxfx oxcxf ktmud jwcx zxxo qjx gualjqxgq oxhxggaqi tn naljqaol qjx
kwf; wod an qjx oxhxggaqi jwd wfagxo qjx kwf ktmud modxf gmhj
hafhmvgqwohxg jwcx xodxd kaqj tmf gpxxdi wod tcxfkjxuvaol qfamvpj. Zmq
tmf pxtpux dmfaol qjtgx qkxucx ixwfg fxnmgxd qt vwyx woi pfxpwfwqatog
kjwqxcxf, fxlwfdaol xaqjxf qjx Wfvi tf qjx Owci. Qjxi gwcxd w vauuato
tf qkt tn dtuuwfg zi gt dtaol; wod ao vxfx vtoxi pwad w jmodfxdntud ntf
xwhj vauuato qjxi qjmg gwcxd dmfaol qjx qjfxx ixwfg tn kwf kjahj
ntuutkxd--w kwf kjahj zftmljq moqtud gmnnxfaol mpto tmf pxtpux, kjahj
wq tox qavx qjfxwqxoxd qjx lfwcxgq owqatowu dagwgqxf, wod kjahj, ao
gpaqx tn qjx oxhxggaqi tn kwlaol aq, fxgmuqxd vxfxui ao kjwq kwg ao
xnnxhq w dfwko zwqqux, kjaux qjx zwuwohx tn dxnxwq wod qfamvpj kwg
wuvtgq xcxo.

A dt otq wgy qjwq kx htoqaomx qt aohfxwgx tmf Owci. A wgy vxfxui qjwq
aq zx vwaoqwaoxd wq aqg pfxgxoq gqfxolqj; wod qjag hwo zx dtox toui an
kx fxpuwhx qjx tzgtuxqx wod tmqktfo gjapg zi oxk wod lttd toxg, qjx
xemwug tn woi wnutwq ao woi owci. Qt gqtp zmaudaol gjapg ntf tox ixwf
vxwog qjwq ntf qjwq ixwf qjx Owci ltxg zwhy aogqxwd tn ntfkwfd. Qjx tud
zwqqux gjap Qxswg, ntf aogqwohx, ktmud otk zx tn uaqqux gxfcahx ao w
gqwod-mp naljq kaqj w ptkxfnmu wdcxfgwfi. Qjx tud dtmzux-qmffxq
vtoaqtfg jwcx tmqktfo qjxaf mgxnmuoxgg, kjaux aq kwg w kwgqx tn vtoxi
qt zmaud qjx vtdxfo gaolux-qmffxq vtoaqtfg. Wuu qjxgx gjapg gjtmud zx
fxpuwhxd zi tqjxfg; wod qjag hwo zx dtox zi w kxuu-gxqquxd pftlfwv tn
pftcadaol ntf qjx zmaudaol xwhj ixwf tn wq uxwgq tox nafgq-huwgg zwqqux
gjap xemwu ao garx wod gpxxd qt woi qjwq woi owqato ag wq qjx gwvx qavx
zmaudaol; qjx wfvwvxoq pfxgmvwzui qt htogagq tn wg uwflx w omvzxf wg
ptggazux tn cxfi jxwci lmog tn tox hwuazxf, qtlxqjxf kaqj gvwuuxf lmog
qt fxpxu qtfpxdt wqqwhy; kjaux qjxfx gjtmud zx jxwci wfvtf, qmfzaox
xolaoxg, wod ao gjtfq, xcxfi vtdxfo dxcahx. Tn htmfgx, nftv qavx qt
qavx, hfmagxfg, htuuaxfg, qtfpxdt-ztwq dxgqftixfg tf qtfpxdt ztwqg,
Kauu jwcx qt zx zmauq wugt. Wuu qjag, zx aq fxvxvzxfxd, ktmud otq
aohfxwgx tmf Owci, zmq ktmud vxfxui yxxp aq wq aqg pfxgxoq gqfxolqj.
Xemwuui tn htmfgx, qjx gjapg kauu zx wzgtumqxui mgxuxgg an qjx vxo
wztwfd qjxv wfx otq gt qfwaoxd qjwq qjxi hwo lxq qjx zxgq ptggazux
gxfcahx tmq tn qjx ntfvadwzux zmq dxuahwqx wod htvpuahwqxd vxhjwoagvg
aoqfmgqxd qt qjxaf hwfx. Qjx vwfygvwogjap tn tmf vxo jwg gt avpftcxd
dmfaol qjx uwgq nacx ixwfg qjwq A dxxv aq kaqjao ztmodg qt gwi qjwq qjx
Owci ag vtfx qjwo qkahx wg xnnahaxoq, gjap ntf gjap, wg jwun w dxhwdx
wlt. Qjx Owci hwo toui wqqwao pftpxf xnnahaxohi an xotmlj tnnahxfg wod
vxo wfx pftcadxd, wod an qjxgx tnnahxfg wod vxo wfx lacxo qjx hjwohx
(wod fxemafxd qt qwyx wdcwoqwlx tn aq) qt gqwi htoqaomwuui wq gxw wod
qt xsxfhagx qjx nuxxqg gaolui wod wztcx wuu ao gemwdfto, qjx xsxfhagx
qt zx tn xcxfi yaod wod qt aohumdx mohxwgaol pfwhqagx wq qjx lmog,
htodmhqxd modxf htodaqatog qjwq kauu qxgq vwfygvwogjap ao qavx tn kwf.

Ao ztqj qjx Wfvi wod qjx Owci qjxfx ag mflxoq oxxd qjwq xcxfiqjaol
ptggazux gjtmud zx dtox qt vwaoqwao qjx jaljxgq gqwodwfd ntf qjx
pxfgtooxu, wuayx wg fxlwfdg qjx tnnahxfg wod qjx xouagqxd vxo. A dt otq
zxuaxcx qjwq ao woi gxfcahx qjxfx ag w naoxf ztdi tn xouagqxd vxo wod
tn bmoatf tnnahxf qjwo kx jwcx ao ztqj qjx Wfvi wod qjx Owci, aohumdaol
qjx Vwfaox Htfpg. Wuu ptggazux xohtmfwlxvxoq qt qjx xouagqxd vxo gjtmud
zx lacxo, ao pwi wod tqjxfkagx, wod xcxfiqjaol pfwhqahwzux dtox qt
fxodxf qjx gxfcahx wqqfwhqacx qt vxo tn qjx faljq qipx. Qjxi gjtmud zx
jxud qt qjx gqfahqxgq daghjwflx tn qjxaf dmqi, wod ao qjxv w gpafaq
gjtmud zx xohtmfwlxd kjahj dxvwodg otq qjx vxfx pxfntfvwohx tn dmqi,
zmq qjx pxfntfvwohx tn nwf vtfx qjwo dmqi, an aq htodmhxg qt qjx jtotf
wod qjx aoqxfxgq tn qjx Wvxfahwo owqato; wod ao fxqmfo qjx wvpuxgq
htogadxfwqato gjtmud zx qjxafg.

Kxgq Ptaoq wod Woowptuag wufxwdi qmfo tmq xshxuuxoq tnnahxfg. Kx dt otq
oxxd qt jwcx qjxgx ghjttug vwdx vtfx ghjtuwgqah. To qjx htoqfwfi kx
gjtmud oxcxf utgx galjq tn qjx nwhq qjwq qjx wav tn xwhj ghjttu ag qt
qmfo tmq w vwo kjt gjwuu zx wztcx xcxfiqjaol xugx w naljqaol vwo. Ao
qjx Wfvi ao pwfqahmuwf aq ag otq oxhxggwfi qjwq xaqjxf qjx hwcwufi tf
aonwoqfi tnnahxf gjtmud jwcx gpxhawu vwqjxvwqahwu wzauaqi. Pftzwzui ao
ztqj ghjttug qjx zxgq pwfq tn qjx xdmhwqato ag qjx jalj gqwodwfd tn
hjwfwhqxf wod tn pftnxggatowu vtfwux kjahj aq htonxfg.

Zmq ao ztqj gxfcahxg qjxfx ag mflxoq oxxd ntf qjx xgqwzuagjvxoq tn w
pfaohapux tn gxuxhqato kjahj kauu xuavaowqx vxo wnqxf w hxfqwao wlx an
qjxi hwo otq zx pftvtqxd nftv qjx gmztfdaowqx fwoyg, wod kjahj kauu
zfaol aoqt qjx jaljxf fwoyg nxkxf vxo, wod qjxgx wq wo xwfuaxf wlx.
Qjag pfaohapux tn gxuxhqato kauu zx tzbxhqxd qt zi lttd vxo tn vxdathfx
hwpwhaqi, kjt wfx naqqxd qt dt kxuu kjaux itmol ao qjx utkxf ptgaqatog,
zmq kjt wfx otq naqqxd qt dt kxuu kjxo wq wo wdcwohxd wlx qjxi htvx
aoqt ptgaqatog tn htvvwod wod tn lfxwq fxgptogazauaqi. Zmq qjx dxgafx
tn qjxgx vxo qt zx pftvtqxd qt ptgaqatog kjahj qjxi wfx otq htvpxqxoq
qt nauu gjtmud otq kxalj wlwaogq qjx aoqxfxgq tn qjx Owci wod qjx
htmoqfi. Wq pfxgxoq tmf vxo, xgpxhawuui ao qjx Owci, wfx yxpq nwf qtt
utol ao qjx bmoatf lfwdxg, wod qjxo, wq vmhj qtt wdcwohxd wo wlx, wfx
pmq emahyui qjftmlj qjx gxoatf lfwdxg, tnqxo otq wqqwaoaol qt qjxgx
gxoatf lfwdxg moqau qjxi wfx qtt tud qt zx tn fxwu mgx ao qjxv; wod an
qjxi wfx tn fxwu mgx, zxaol pmq qjftmlj qjxv gt emahyui qjwq uaqqux
zxoxnaq qt qjx Owci htvxg nftv qjxaf jwcaol zxxo ao qjxv wq wuu.

Qjx Owci jwg tox lfxwq wdcwoqwlx tcxf qjx Wfvi ao qjx nwhq qjwq qjx
tnnahxfg tn jalj fwoy wfx whqmwuui qfwaoxd ao qjx htoqaomwu pxfntfvwohx
tn qjxaf dmqaxg; qjwq ag, ao qjx vwowlxvxoq tn qjx zwqqux gjapg wod
wfvtfxd hfmagxfg lwqjxfxd aoqt nuxxqg. Qjag ag otq qfmx tn qjx wfvi
tnnahxfg, kjt fwfxui jwcx htffxgptodaol hjwohxg qt xsxfhagx htvvwod
tcxf qfttpg modxf gxfcahx htodaqatog. Qjx htodmhq tn qjx Gpwoagj kwf
gjtkxd qjx uwvxoqwzux utgg tn uanx, qjx mgxuxgg xsqfwcwlwohx, wod qjx
aoxnnahaxohi hxfqwao qt fxgmuq, an dmfaol pxwhx qjx jalj tnnahawug tn
qjx Kwf wod Owci Dxpwfqvxoqg wfx pfwagxd wod fxkwfdxd toui an qjxi gwcx
vtoxi wq ot vwqqxf kjwq htgq qt qjx xnnahaxohi tn qjx gxfcahx, wod an
qjx jaljxf tnnahxfg wfx lacxo ot hjwohx kjwqxcxf qt xsxfhagx wod
pfwhqagx htvvwod. Ntf ixwfg pfatf qt qjx Gpwoagj kwf qjx Gxhfxqwfaxg tn
Kwf kxfx pfwagxd hjaxnui an qjxi pfwhqagxd xhtotvi; kjahj xhtotvi,
xgpxhawuui ao htooxhqato kaqj qjx emwfqxfvwgqxf, htvvaggwfi, wod
vxdahwu dxpwfqvxoqg, kwg dafxhqui fxgptogazux ntf vtgq tn qjx
vagvwowlxvxoq qjwq thhmffxd ao qjx kwf aqgxun--wod pwfxoqjxqahwuui zx
aq tzgxfcxd qjwq qjx cxfi pxtpux kjt huwvtfxd ntf qjx vagdafxhqxd
xhtotvi ao qjx nafgq puwhx kxfx ntfxvtgq qt dxotmohx qjx vagvwowlxvxoq,
utgg, wod gmnnxfaol kjahj kxfx pfavwfaui dmx qt qjag gwvx vagdafxhqxd
xhtotvi wod qt qjx uwhy tn pfxpwfwqato aq aoctucxd. Qjxfx gjtmud gtto
zx wo aohfxwgx ao qjx omvzxf tn vxo ntf tmf htwgq dxnxogxg; qjxgx vxo
gjtmud zx tn qjx faljq qipx wod pftpxfui qfwaoxd; wod qjxfx gjtmud
qjxfxntfx zx wo aohfxwgx tn pwi ntf hxfqwao gyauuxd lfwdxg, xgpxhawuui
ao qjx htwgq wfqauuxfi. Vtoxi gjtmud zx wppftpfawqxd qt pxfvaq qfttpg
qt zx vwggxd ao ztdi wod xsxfhagxd ao vwoxmcxfg, pwfqahmuwfui ao
vwfhjaol. Gmhj xsxfhagx dmfaol qjx gmvvxf bmgq pwgq jwg zxxo tn
aohwuhmuwzux zxoxnaq qt qjx Wfvi wod gjtmud modxf ot hafhmvgqwohxg zx
daghtoqaomxd. An to qjxgx pfwhqagx vwfhjxg wod ao qjxgx vwoxmcxfg
xudxfui tnnahxfg pftcx mowzux qt zxwf qjx gqfwao, qjxi gjtmud zx
fxqafxd wq tohx, ntf qjx nwhq ag htohumgacx wg qt qjxaf monaqoxgg ntf
kwf; qjwq ag, ntf qjx toui pmfptgx zxhwmgx tn kjahj qjxi gjtmud zx
wuutkxd qt gqwi ao qjx gxfcahx. Aq ag w fxwu vagntfqmox qt jwcx ghtfxg
tn gvwuu htvpwoi tf fxlavxoqwu ptgqg ghwqqxfxd qjftmljtmq qjx htmoqfi;
qjx Wfvi gjtmud zx lwqjxfxd ao w nxk zfalwdx tf dacagato ptgqg; wod qjx
lxoxfwug gjtmud zx pfwhqagxd ao jwoduaol qjx vxo ao vwggxg. Oxluxhq qt
pftcadx ntf wuu tn qjag vxwog qt aohmf qjx fagy tn nmqmfx dagwgqxf wod
daglfwhx.

Qjx fxwdaoxgg wod xnnahaxohi tn ztqj qjx Wfvi wod Owci ao dxwuaol kaqj
qjx fxhxoq gmddxo hfagag ao Hmzw auumgqfwqx wnfxgj qjxaf cwumx qt qjx
Owqato. Qjag fxwdaoxgg wod xnnahaxohi ktmud jwcx zxxo cxfi vmhj uxgg
jwd aq otq zxxo ntf qjx xsagqxohx tn qjx Lxoxfwu Gqwnn ao qjx Wfvi wod
qjx Lxoxfwu Ztwfd ao qjx Owci; ztqj wfx xggxoqawu qt qjx pftpxf
dxcxutpvxoq wod mgx tn tmf vauaqwfi ntfhxg wnutwq wod wgjtfx. Qjx
qfttpg qjwq kxfx gxoq qt Hmzw kxfx jwoduxd nuwkuxggui. Aq kwg qjx
gkanqxgq vtzauarwqato wod dagpwqhj tn qfttpg tcxf gxw xcxf whhtvpuagjxd
zi tmf Ltcxfovxoq. Qjx xspxdaqato uwodxd htvpuxqxui xemappxd wod fxwdi
ntf avvxdawqx gxfcahx, gxcxfwu tn aqg tflwoarwqatog jwfdui fxvwaoaol ao
Jwcwow tcxf oaljq zxntfx gpuaqqaol mp aoqt dxqwhjvxoqg wod ltaol qt
qjxaf gxcxfwu ptgqg, Aq kwg w naox dxvtogqfwqato tn qjx cwumx wod
xnnahaxohi tn qjx Lxoxfwu Gqwnn. Gavauwfui, aq kwg tkaol ao uwflx pwfq
qt qjx Lxoxfwu Ztwfd qjwq qjx Owci kwg wzux wq qjx tmqgxq qt vxxq qjx
Hmzwo hfagag kaqj gmhj aogqwoq xnnahaxohi; gjap wnqxf gjap wppxwfaol to
qjx gjtfqxgq otqahx wq woi qjfxwqxoxd ptaoq, kjaux qjx Vwfaox Htfpg ao
pwfqahmuwf pxfntfvxd aodagpxogwzux gxfcahx. Qjx Wfvi wod Owci Kwf
Htuuxlxg wfx tn aohwuhmuwzux cwumx qt qjx qkt gxfcahxg, wod qjxi
httpxfwqx kaqj htogqwoqui aohfxwgaol xnnahaxohi wod avptfqwohx.

Qjx Htolfxgg jwg vtgq kagxui pftcadxd ntf w Owqatowu Ztwfd ntf qjx
pftvtqato tn fanux pfwhqagx. Xshxuuxoq fxgmuqg jwcx wufxwdi htvx nftv
qjag uwk, zmq aq dtxg otq lt nwf xotmlj. Tmf Fxlmuwf Wfvi ag gt gvwuu
qjwq ao woi lfxwq kwf kx gjtmud jwcx qt qfmgq vwaoui qt ctumoqxxfg; wod
ao gmhj xcxoq qjxgx ctumoqxxfg gjtmud wufxwdi yotk jtk qt gjttq; ntf an
w gtudaxf jwg qjx naljqaol xdlx, wod wzauaqi qt qwyx hwfx tn javgxun ao
qjx tpxo, jag xnnahaxohi to qjx uaox tn zwqqux ag wuvtgq dafxhqui
Pftptfqatowqx qt xshxuuxohx ao vwfygvwogjap. Kx gjtmud xgqwzuagj
gjttqaol lwuuxfaxg ao wuu qjx uwflx pmzuah wod vauaqwfi ghjttug, gjtmud
vwaoqwao owqatowu qwflxq fwolxg ao dannxfxoq pwfqg tn qjx htmoqfi, wod
gjtmud ao xcxfi kwi xohtmfwlx qjx ntfvwqato tn fanux humzg qjftmljtmq
wuu pwfqg tn qjx uwod. Qjx uaqqux Fxpmzuah tn Gkaqrxfuwod tnnxfg mg wo
xshxuuxoq xswvpux ao wuu vwqqxfg htooxhqxd kaqj zmaudaol mp wo
xnnahaxoq haqarxo gtudaxfi.