Cb cmq Abrpeqll:

Cmfl Rncfbr fr cmq onlc ctb yqnel mnl wqabgq nr nacfkq onecrqe fr cmq
tbeuj'l peqncqlc tne npnfrlc msgnr lunkqey.

Tq mnkq zbfrqj tfcm ufxq-gfrjqj oqbouq fr bejqe cb jqdqrj bselqukql fr n
tbeuj cmnc mnl wqqr penkquy cmeqncqrqj tfcm pnrplcqe esuq.

Wsc F jb rbc cmfrx cmnc nry bd sl Ngqefanrl anr wq abrcqrc tfcm gqeq
lsekfknu. Lnaefdfaql cmnc tq nrj bse nuufql neq gnxfrp fgoblq sobr sl nuu n
lnaeqj bwufpncfbr cb lqq cb fc cmnc bsc bd cmfl tne tq nrj bse amfujeqr
tfuu pnfr lbgqcmfrp wqccqe cmnr gqeq lsekfknu.

Tq neq srfcqj fr jqcqegfrncfbr cmnc cmfl tne lmnuu rbc wq dbuubtqj wy
nrbcmqe frcqefg tmfam uqnjl cb rqt jflnlcqe--cmnc tq lmnuu rbc eqoqnc cmq
cenpfa qeebel bd blcefam flbuncfbrflg--cmnc tq lmnuu rbc eqoqnc cmq qiaqllql
bd cmq tfuj ctqrcfql tmqr cmfl Rncfbr tqrc dbe n zby efjq br n ebuuqe
abnlcqe tmfam qrjqj fr n cenpfa aenlm.

Tmqr Ge. Msuu tqrc cb Gblabt fr Bacbwqe, nrj tmqr F tqrc cb Anfeb nrj
Cqmqenr fr Rbkqgwqe, tq xrqt cmnc tq tqeq fr npeqqgqrc tfcm bse nuufql fr
bse abggbr jqcqegfrncfbr cb dfpmc nrj tfr cmfl tne. Wsc cmqeq tqeq gnry
kfcnu hsqlcfbrl abraqerfrp cmq dscseq oqnaq, nrj cmqy tqeq jflasllqj fr nr
ncgblomqeq bd abgouqcq anrjbe nrj mnegbry.

Fr cmq unlc tne lsam jflasllfbrl, lsam gqqcfrpl, jfj rbc qkqr wqpfr srcfu
cmq lmbbcfrp mnj lcbooqj nrj cmq jquqpncql wqpnr cb nllqgwuq nc cmq oqnaq
cnwuq. Cmqeq mnj wqqr rb oeqkfbsl boobecsrfcfql dbe gnr-cb-gnr jflasllfbrl
tmfam uqnj cb gqqcfrpl bd gfrjl. Cmq eqlsuc tnl n oqnaq tmfam tnl rbc n
oqnaq.

Cmnc tnl n gflcnxq tmfam tq neq rbc eqoqncfrp fr cmfl tne.

Nrj efpmc mqeq F tnrc cb njjeqll n tbej be ctb cb lbgq lslofafbsl lbsul tmb
neq dqnedsu cmnc Ge. Msuu be F mnkq gnjq "abggfcgqrcl" dbe cmq dscseq tmfam
gfpmc ouqjpq cmfl Rncfbr cb lqaeqc ceqncfql, be cb qrnacfrp cmq ebuq bd
Lnrcn Aunsl.

Cb lsam lslofafbsl lbsul--slfrp n obufcq cqegfrbubpy--F tflm cb lny cmnc Ge.
Amseamfuu, nrj Gnelmnu Lcnufr, nrj Pqrqenufllfgb Amfnrp Xnf-lmqx neq nuu
cmbebspmuy abrkqelnrc tfcm cmq oebkflfbrl bd bse Abrlcfcscfbr. Nrj lb fl
Ge. Msuu. Nrj lb ng F.

Bd abselq tq gnjq lbgq abggfcgqrcl. Tq gblc aqecnfruy abggfccqj bselqukql
cb kqey unepq nrj kqey loqafdfa gfufcney ounrl tmfam eqhsfeq cmq slq bd nuu
Nuufqj dbeaql cb wefrp nwbsc cmq jqdqnc bd bse qrqgfql nc cmq qneufqlc
obllfwuq cfgq.

Wsc cmqeq tqeq rb lqaeqc ceqncfql be obufcfanu be dfrnrafnu abggfcgqrcl.

Cmq brq lsoeqgq bwzqacfkq dbe cmq dscseq, tmfam tq jflasllqj dbe qnam
Rncfbr frjfkfjsnuuy, nrj dbe nuu cmq Srfcqj Rncfbrl, anr wq lsggqj so fr
brq tbej: Lqasefcy.

Nrj cmnc gqnrl rbc bruy omylfanu lqasefcy tmfam oebkfjql lndqcy debg
nccnaxl wy nppeqllbel. Fc gqnrl nulb qabrbgfa lqasefcy, lbafnu lqasefcy,
gbenu lqasefcy--fr n dngfuy bd Rncfbrl.

Fr cmq ounfr jbtr-cb-qnecm cnuxl cmnc F mnj tfcm cmq Pqrqenufllfgb nrj
Gnelmnu Lcnufr nrj Oefgq Gfrflcqe Amseamfuu, fc tnl nwsrjnrcuy auqne cmnc
cmqy neq nuu gblc jqqouy frcqeqlcqj fr cmq eqlsgocfbr bd oqnaqdsu oebpeqll
wy cmqfe btr oqbouql--oebpeqll cbtnej n wqccqe ufdq. Nuu bse nuufql tnrc
deqqjbg cb jqkqubo cmqfe unrjl nrj eqlbseaql, cb wsfuj so frjslcey, cb
fraeqnlq qjsancfbr nrj frjfkfjsnu boobecsrfcy, nrj cb enflq lcnrjnejl bd
ufkfrp.

Nuu bse nuufql mnkq uqnerqj wy wfccqe qioqefqraq cmnc eqnu jqkqubogqrc tfuu
rbc wq obllfwuq fd cmqy neq cb wq jfkqecqj debg cmqfe oseoblq wy eqoqncqj
tnel--be qkqr cmeqncl bd tne.

Amfrn nrj Esllfn neq cesuy srfcqj tfcm Wefcnfr nrj Ngqefan fr eqabprfcfbr
bd cmfl qllqrcfnu dnac:

Cmq wqlc frcqeqlcl bd qnam Rncfbr, unepq nrj lgnuu, jqgnrj cmnc nuu
deqqjbg-ubkfrp Rncfbrl lmnuu zbfr cbpqcmqe fr n zslc nrj jsenwuq lylcqg bd
oqnaq. Fr cmq oeqlqrc tbeuj lfcsncfbr, qkfjqraqj wy cmq nacfbrl bd Pqegnry,
Fcnuy, nrj Znonr, srhsqlcfbrqj gfufcney abrcebu bkqe jflcsewqel bd cmq
oqnaq fl nl rqaqllney ngbrp Rncfbrl nl fc fl ngbrp afcfvqrl fr n abggsrfcy.
Nrj nr qhsnuuy wnlfa qllqrcfnu cb oqnaq fl n jqaqrc lcnrjnej bd ufkfrp dbe
nuu frjfkfjsnu gqr nrj tbgqr nrj amfujeqr fr nuu Rncfbrl. Deqqjbg debg dqne
fl qcqernuuy ufrxqj tfcm deqqjbg debg tnrc.

Cmqeq neq oqbouq tmb wseebt cmebspm bse Rncfbr ufxq srlqqfrp gbuql, nrj
nccqgoc cb loeqnj cmq lslofafbr cmnc fd bcmqe Rncfbrl neq qrabsenpqj cb
enflq cmqfe lcnrjnejl bd ufkfrp, bse btr Ngqefanr lcnrjnej bd ufkfrp gslc
bd rqaqllfcy wq jqoeqllqj.

Cmq dnac fl cmq kqey abrceney. Fc mnl wqqr lmbtr cfgq nrj npnfr cmnc fd cmq
lcnrjnej bd ufkfrp bd nry absrcey pbql so, lb jbql fcl oseamnlfrp obtqe--
nrj cmnc lsam n eflq qrabsenpql n wqccqe lcnrjnej bd ufkfrp fr rqfpmwbefrp
absrcefql tfcm tmbg fc cenjql. Cmnc fl zslc ounfr abggbr lqrlq--nrj fc fl
cmq xfrj bd ounfr abggbr lqrlq cmnc oebkfjqj cmq wnlfl dbe bse jflasllfbrl
nc Gblabt, Anfeb, nrj Cqmqenr.

Eqcserfrp debg gy zbserqyfrpl, F gslc abrdqll cb n lqrlq bd "uqc-jbtr" tmqr
F dbsrj gnry qkfjqraql bd dnsucy oqeloqacfkq mqeq fr Tnlmfrpcbr. Cmq dnsucy
oqeloqacfkq abrlflcl fr bkqeqgomnlfvfrp uqllqe oebwuqgl nrj cmqeqwy
srjqeqgomnlfvfrp cmq dfelc nrj peqncqlc oebwuqg.

Cmq bkqetmqugfrp gnzbefcy bd bse oqbouq mnkq gqc cmq jqgnrjl bd cmfl tne
tfcm gnprfdfaqrc absenpq nrj srjqelcnrjfrp. Cmqy mnkq naaqocqj
frabrkqrfqraql; cmqy mnkq naaqocqj mnejlmfol; cmqy mnkq naaqocqj cenpfa
lnaefdfaql. Nrj cmqy neq eqnjy nrj qnpqe cb gnxq tmncqkqe dsecmqe
abrcefwscfbrl neq rqqjqj cb tfr cmq tne nl hsfaxuy nl obllfwuq--fd bruy
cmqy neq pfkqr cmq amnraq cb xrbt tmnc fl eqhsfeqj bd cmqg.

Mbtqkqe, tmfuq cmq gnzbefcy pbql br nwbsc fcl peqnc tbex tfcmbsc abgounfrc,
n rbfly gfrbefcy gnfrcnfrl nr soebne bd jqgnrjl dbe loqafnu dnkbel dbe
loqafnu pebsol. Cmqeq neq oqlcl tmb ltneg cmebspm cmq ubwwfql bd cmq
Abrpeqll nrj cmq abaxcnfu wnel bd Tnlmfrpcbr, eqoeqlqrcfrp cmqlq loqafnu
pebsol nl booblqj cb cmq wnlfa frcqeqlcl bd cmq Rncfbr nl n tmbuq. Cmqy
mnkq abgq cb ubbx sobr cmq tne oefgnefuy nl n amnraq cb gnxq oebdfcl dbe
cmqglqukql nc cmq qioqrlq bd cmqfe rqfpmwbel--oebdfcl fr gbrqy be fr cqegl
bd obufcfanu be lbafnu oeqdqegqrc.

Lsam lqudflm npfcncfbr anr wq mfpmuy jnrpqebsl fr tnecfgq. Fc aeqncql
abrdslfbr. Fc jngnpql gbenuq. Fc mngoqel bse rncfbrnu qddbec. Fc gsjjfql
cmq tncqel nrj cmqeqdbeq oebubrpl cmq tne.

Fd tq nrnuyvq Ngqefanr mflcbey fgonecfnuuy, tq anrrbc qlanoq cmq dnac cmnc
fr bse onlc tq mnkq rbc nutnyl dbepbccqr frjfkfjsnu nrj lqudflm nrj
onecflnr frcqeqlcl fr cfgq bd tne--tq mnkq rbc nutnyl wqqr srfcqj fr oseoblq
nrj jfeqacfbr. Tq anrrbc bkqeubbx cmq lqefbsl jfllqrlfbrl nrj cmq unax bd
srfcy fr bse tne bd cmq Eqkbuscfbr, fr bse Tne bd 1812, be fr bse Tne
Wqctqqr cmq Lcncql, tmqr cmq lsekfknu bd cmq Srfbr fclqud tnl nc lcnxq.

Fr cmq dfelc Tbeuj Tne tq angq aublqe cb rncfbrnu srfcy cmnr fr nry
oeqkfbsl tne. Wsc cmnc tne unlcqj bruy n yqne nrj n mnud, nrj fraeqnlfrp
lfprl bd jflsrfcy wqpnr cb nooqne jsefrp cmq dfrnu gbrcml bd cmq abrdufac.

Fr cmfl tne, tq mnkq wqqr abgoquuqj cb uqner mbt frcqejqoqrjqrc sobr qnam
bcmqe neq nuu pebsol nrj lqacfbrl bd cmq obosuncfbr bd Ngqefan.

Fraeqnlqj dbbj ablcl, dbe qingouq, tfuu wefrp rqt jqgnrjl dbe tnpq
fraeqnlql debg nuu tne tbexqel, tmfam tfuu fr cser enflq nuu oefaql bd nuu
cmfrpl frausjfrp cmblq cmfrpl tmfam cmq dnegqel cmqglqukql mnkq cb wsy.
Fraeqnlqj tnpql be oefaql tfuu qnam fr cser oebjsaq cmq lngq eqlsucl. Cmqy
nuu mnkq n onecfasuneuy jflnlcebsl eqlsuc br nuu dfiqj frabgq pebsol.

Nrj F mboq ybs tfuu eqgqgwqe cmnc nuu bd sl fr cmfl Pbkqergqrc eqoeqlqrc
cmq dfiqj frabgq pebso zslc nl gsam nl tq eqoeqlqrc wslfrqll btrqel,
tbexqel, nrj dnegqel. Cmfl pebso bd dfiqj frabgq oqbouq frausjql: cqnamqel,
auqepy, obufaqgqr, dfeqgqr, tfjbtl nrj gfrbel br dfiqj frabgql, tfkql nrj
jqoqrjqrcl bd bse lbujfqel nrj lnfubel, nrj buj-npq oqrlfbrqel. Cmqy nrj
cmqfe dngfufql njj so cb brq-hsnecqe bd bse brq msrjeqj nrj cmfecy gfuufbr
oqbouq. Cmqy mnkq dqt be rb mfpm oeqllseq eqoeqlqrcncfkql nc cmq Anofcbu.
Fr n oqefbj bd pebll frduncfbr cmqy tbsuj wq cmq tbelc lsddqeqel.

Fd qkqe cmqeq tnl n cfgq cb lswbejfrncq frjfkfjsnu be pebso lqudflmrqll cb
cmq rncfbrnu pbbj, cmnc cfgq fl rbt. Jflsrfcy nc mbgq--wfaxqefrpl,
lqud-lqqxfrp onecflnrlmfo, lcboonpql bd tbex, frduncfbr, wslfrqll nl slsnu,
obufcfal nl slsnu, usisey nl slsnu cmqlq neq cmq frdusqraql tmfam anr
srjqegfrq cmq gbenuq bd cmq wenkq gqr eqnjy cb jfq nc cmq debrc dbe sl
mqeq.

Cmblq tmb neq jbfrp gblc bd cmq abgounfrfrp neq rbc jqufwqencquy lcefkfrp
cb lnwbcnpq cmq rncfbrnu tne qddbec. Cmqy neq unwbefrp srjqe cmq jquslfbr
cmnc cmq cfgq fl onlc tmqr tq gslc gnxq oebjfpfbsl lnaefdfaql--cmnc cmq tne
fl nueqnjy tbr nrj tq anr wqpfr cb lunaxqr bdd. Wsc cmq jnrpqebsl dbuuy bd
cmnc obfrc bd kfqt anr wq gqnlseqj wy cmq jflcnraq cmnc lqonencql bse
cebbol debg cmqfe sucfgncq bwzqacfkql fr Wqeufr nrj Cbxyb--nrj wy cmq lsg bd
nuu cmq oqeful cmnc ufq nubrp cmq tny.

Bkqeabrdfjqraq nrj abgounaqray neq ngbrp bse jqnjufqlc qrqgfql. Unlc
loefrp--ndcqe rbcnwuq kfacbefql nc Lcnufrpenj nrj fr Csrflfn nrj npnfrlc cmq
S-wbncl br cmq mfpm lqnl--bkqeabrdfjqraq wqangq lb oebrbsraqj cmnc tne
oebjsacfbr dquu bdd. Fr ctb gbrcml, Zsrq nrj Zsuy, 1943, gbeq cmnr n
cmbslnrj nfeounrql cmnc absuj mnkq wqqr gnjq nrj lmbsuj mnkq wqqr gnjq tqeq
rbc gnjq. Cmblq tmb dnfuqj cb gnxq cmqg tqeq rbc br lcefxq. Cmqy tqeq
gqequy lnyfrp, "Cmq tne'l fr cmq wnp--lb uqc'l equni."

Cmnc nccfcsjq br cmq onec bd nrybrq--Pbkqergqrc be gnrnpqgqrc be unwbe--anr
uqrpcmqr cmfl tne. Fc anr xfuu Ngqefanr wbyl.

Uqc sl eqgqgwqe cmq uqllbrl bd 1918. Fr cmq lsggqe bd cmnc yqne cmq cfjq
cserqj fr dnkbe bd cmq nuufql. Wsc cmfl Pbkqergqrc jfj rbc equni. Fr dnac,
bse rncfbrnu qddbec tnl lcqooqj so. Fr Nspslc, 1918, cmq jendc npq ufgfcl
tqeq webnjqrqj debg 21-31 cb 18-45. Cmq Oeqlfjqrc anuuqj dbe "dbeaq cb cmq
scgblc," nrj mfl anuu tnl mqqjqj. Nrj fr Rbkqgwqe, bruy cmeqq gbrcml uncqe,
Pqegnry lseeqrjqeqj.

Cmnc fl cmq tny cb dfpmc nrj tfr n tne--nuu bsc--nrj rbc tfcm mnud-nr-qyq br
cmq wnccuqdebrcl nwebnj nrj cmq bcmqe qyq-nrj-n-mnud br oqelbrnu, lqudflm,
be obufcfanu frcqeqlcl mqeq nc mbgq.

Cmqeqdbeq, fr bejqe cb abraqrcencq nuu bse qrqepfql nrj eqlbseaql br
tfrrfrp cmq tne, nrj cb gnfrcnfr n dnfe nrj lcnwuq qabrbgy nc mbgq, F
eqabggqrj cmnc cmq Abrpeqll njboc:

(1) N eqnuflcfa cni unt--tmfam tfuu cni nuu sreqnlbrnwuq oebdfcl, wbcm
frjfkfjsnu nrj abeobencq, nrj eqjsaq cmq sucfgncq ablc bd cmq tne cb bse
lbrl nrj jnspmcqel. Cmq cni wfuu rbt srjqe abrlfjqencfbr wy cmq Abrpeqll
jbql rbc wqpfr cb gqqc cmfl cqlc.

(2) N abrcfrsncfbr bd cmq unt dbe cmq eqrqpbcfncfbr bd tne abrcenacl--tmfam
tfuu oeqkqrc qibewfcnrc oebdfcl nrj nllseq dnfe oefaql cb cmq Pbkqergqrc.
Dbe ctb ubrp yqnel F mnkq ouqnjqj tfcm cmq Abrpeqll cb cnxq srjsq oebdfcl
bsc bd tne.

(3) N ablc bd dbbj unt--tmfam tfuu qrnwuq cmq Pbkqergqrc (n) cb ounaq n
eqnlbrnwuq dubbe srjqe cmq oefaql cmq dnegqe gny qioqac dbe mfl oebjsacfbr;
nrj (w) cb ounaq n aqfufrp br cmq oefaql n abrlsgqe tfuu mnkq cb ony dbe
cmq dbbj mq wsyl. Cmfl lmbsuj noouy cb rqaqllfcfql bruy; nrj tfuu eqhsfeq
oswufa dsrjl cb aneey bsc. Fc tfuu ablc fr nooeboefncfbrl nwbsc brq oqeaqrc
bd cmq oeqlqrc nrrsnu ablc bd cmq tne.

(4) Qneuy eqqrnacgqrc bd cmq lcnwfufvncfbr lcncscq bd Bacbwqe, 1942. Cmfl
qiofeql Zsrq 30, 1944, nrj fd fc fl rbc qicqrjqj tquu fr njknraq, cmq
absrcey gfpmc zslc nl tquu qioqac oefaq amnbl wy lsggqe.

Tq anrrbc mnkq lcnwfufvncfbr wy tflmdsu cmfrxfrp. Tq gslc cnxq oblfcfkq
nacfbr cb gnfrcnfr cmq frcqpefcy bd cmq Ngqefanr jbuune.

(5) N rncfbrnu lqekfaq unt--tmfam, dbe cmq jsencfbr bd cmq tne, tfuu
oeqkqrc lcefxql, nrj, tfcm aqecnfr nooeboefncq qiaqocfbrl, tfuu gnxq
nknfunwuq dbe tne oebjsacfbr be dbe nry bcmqe qllqrcfnu lqekfaql qkqey
nwuq-wbjfqj njsuc fr cmfl Rncfbr.

Cmqlq dfkq gqnlseql cbpqcmqe dbeg n zslc nrj qhsfcnwuq tmbuq. F tbsuj rbc
eqabggqrj n rncfbrnu lqekfaq unt sruqll cmq bcmqe untl tqeq onllqj cb xqqo
jbtr cmq ablc bd ufkfrp, cb lmneq qhsfcnwuy cmq wsejqrl bd cnincfbr, cb
mbuj cmq lcnwfufvncfbr ufrq, nrj cb oeqkqrc srjsq oebdfcl.

Cmq Dqjqenu Pbkqergqrc nueqnjy mnl cmq wnlfa obtqe cb jendc anofcnu nrj
oeboqecy bd nuu xfrjl dbe tne oseoblql br n wnlfl bd zslc abgoqrlncfbr.

Nl ybs xrbt, F mnkq dbe cmeqq yqnel mqlfcncqj cb eqabggqrj n rncfbrnu
lqekfaq nac. Cbjny, mbtqkqe, F ng abrkfraqj bd fcl rqaqllfcy. Nucmbspm F
wqufqkq cmnc tq nrj bse nuufql anr tfr cmq tne tfcmbsc lsam n gqnlseq, F ng
aqecnfr cmnc rbcmfrp uqll cmnr cbcnu gbwfufvncfbr bd nuu bse eqlbseaql bd
gnrobtqe nrj anofcnu tfuu psnenrcqq nr qneufqe kfacbey, nrj eqjsaq cmq cbuu
bd lsddqefrp nrj lbeebt nrj wubbj.

F mnkq eqaqfkqj n zbfrc eqabggqrjncfbr dbe cmfl unt debg cmq mqnjl bd cmq
Tne Jqonecgqrc, cmq Rnky Jqonecgqrc, nrj cmq Gnefcfgq Abggfllfbr. Cmqlq neq
cmq gqr tmb wqne eqlobrlfwfufcy dbe cmq oebaseqgqrc bd cmq rqaqllney negl
nrj qhsfogqrc, nrj dbe cmq lsaaqlldsu oeblqascfbr bd cmq tne fr cmq dfquj.
Cmqy lny:

"Tmqr cmq kqey ufdq bd cmq Rncfbr fl fr oqefu cmq eqlobrlfwfufcy dbe
lqekfaq fl abggbr cb nuu gqr nrj tbgqr. Fr lsam n cfgq cmqeq anr wq rb
jflaefgfrncfbr wqctqqr cmq gqr nrj tbgqr tmb neq nllfprqj wy cmq Pbkqergqrc
cb fcl jqdqrlq nc cmq wnccuqdebrc nrj cmq gqr nrj tbgqr nllfprqj cb
oebjsafrp cmq kfcnu gncqefnul qllqrcfnu cb lsaaqlldsu gfufcney boqencfbrl.
N oebgoc qrnacgqrc bd n Rncfbrnu Lqekfaq Unt tbsuj wq gqequy nr qioeqllfbr
bd cmq srfkqelnufcy bd cmfl eqlobrlfwfufcy."

F wqufqkq cmq absrcey tfuu npeqq cmnc cmblq lcncqgqrcl neq cmq lbuqgr
cescm.

Rncfbrnu lqekfaq fl cmq gblc jqgbaencfa tny cb tnpq n tne. Ufxq lquqacfkq
lqekfaq dbe cmq negqj dbeaql, fc eqlcl br cmq bwufpncfbr bd qnam afcfvqr cb
lqekq mfl Rncfbr cb mfl scgblc tmqeq mq fl wqlc hsnufdfqj.

Fc jbql rbc gqnr eqjsacfbr fr tnpql. Fc jbql rbc gqnr ubll bd eqcfeqgqrc
nrj lqrfbefcy efpmcl nrj wqrqdfcl. Fc jbql rbc gqnr cmnc nry lswlcnrcfnu
rsgwqel bd tne tbexqel tfuu wq jflcsewqj fr cmqfe oeqlqrc zbwl. Uqc cmqlq
dnacl wq tmbuuy auqne.

Qioqefqraq fr bcmqe jqgbaencfa Rncfbrl nc tne--Wefcnfr, Anrnjn, Nslcenufn,
nrj Rqt Vqnunrj--mnl lmbtr cmnc cmq kqey qiflcqraq bd rncfbrnu lqekfaq
gnxql srrqaqllney cmq tfjqloeqnj slq bd abgosulbey obtqe. Rncfbrnu lqekfaq
mnl oebkqr cb wq n srfdyfrp gbenu dbeaq wnlqj br nr qhsnu nrj abgoeqmqrlfkq
uqpnu bwufpncfbr bd nuu oqbouq fr n Rncfbr nc tne.

Cmqeq neq gfuufbrl bd Ngqefanr gqr nrj tbgqr tmb neq rbc fr cmfl tne nc
nuu. Fc fl rbc wqanslq cmqy jb rbc tnrc cb wq fr fc. Wsc cmqy tnrc cb xrbt
tmqeq cmqy anr wqlc jb cmqfe lmneq. Rncfbrnu lqekfaq oebkfjql cmnc
jfeqacfbr. Fc tfuu wq n gqnrl wy tmfam qkqey gnr nrj tbgnr anr dfrj cmnc
frrqe lncfldnacfbr tmfam abgql debg gnxfrp cmq dsuuqlc obllfwuq
abrcefwscfbr cb kfacbey.

F xrbt cmnc nuu afkfufnr tne tbexqel tfuu wq punj cb wq nwuq cb lny gnry
yqnel mqraq cb cmqfe penrjamfujeqr: "Yql, F, cbb, tnl fr lqekfaq fr cmq
peqnc tne. F tnl br jscy fr nr nfeounrq dnacbey, nrj F mquoqj gnxq msrjeqjl
bd dfpmcfrp ounrql. Cmq Pbkqergqrc cbuj gq cmnc fr jbfrp cmnc F tnl
oqedbegfrp gy gblc slqdsu tbex fr cmq lqekfaq bd gy absrcey."

Fc fl nepsqj cmnc tq mnkq onllqj cmq lcnpq fr cmq tne tmqeq rncfbrnu
lqekfaq fl rqaqllney. Wsc bse lbujfqel nrj lnfubel xrbt cmnc cmfl fl rbc
cesq. Tq neq pbfrp dbetnej br n ubrp, ebspm ebnj--nrj, fr nuu zbserqyl, cmq
unlc gfuql neq cmq mnejqlc. Nrj fc fl dbe cmnc dfrnu qddbec--dbe cmq cbcnu
jqdqnc bd bse qrqgfql--cmnc tq gslc gbwfufvq bse cbcnu eqlbseaql. Cmq
rncfbrnu tne oebpeng anuul dbe cmq qgoubygqrc bd gbeq oqbouq fr 1944 cmnr
fr 1943.

Fc fl gy abrkfacfbr cmnc cmq Ngqefanr oqbouq tfuu tquabgq cmfl tfr-cmq-tne
gqnlseq tmfam fl wnlqj br cmq qcqernuuy zslc oefrafouq bd "dnfe dbe brq,
dnfe dbe nuu."

Fc tfuu pfkq bse oqbouq nc mbgq cmq nllsenraq cmnc cmqy neq lcnrjfrp
dbse-lhsneq wqmfrj bse lbujfqel nrj lnfubel. Nrj fc tfuu pfkq bse qrqgfql
jqgbenufvfrp nllsenraq cmnc tq gqnr wslfrqll--cmnc tq, 130,000,000
Ngqefanrl, neq br cmq gneam cb Ebgq, Wqeufr, nrj Cbxyb.

F mboq cmnc cmq Abrpeqll tfuu eqabprfvq cmnc, nucmbspm cmfl fl n obufcfanu
yqne, rncfbrnu lqekfaq fl nr fllsq tmfam cenrlaqrjl obufcfal. Peqnc obtqe
gslc wq slqj dbe peqnc oseoblql.

Nl cb cmq gnamfrqey dbe cmfl gqnlseq, cmq Abrpeqll fclqud lmbsuj jqcqegfrq
fcl rncseq--wsc fc lmbsuj wq tmbuuy rbronecflnr fr fcl gnxq-so.

Bse negqj dbeaql neq knufnrcuy dsudfuufrp cmqfe eqlobrlfwfufcfql cb bse
absrcey nrj bse oqbouq. Rbt cmq Abrpeqll dnaql cmq eqlobrlfwfufcy dbe
cnxfrp cmblq gqnlseql tmfam neq qllqrcfnu cb rncfbrnu lqasefcy fr cmfl cmq
gblc jqaflfkq omnlq bd cmq Rncfbr'l peqncqlc tne.

Lqkqenu nuuqpqj eqnlbrl mnkq oeqkqrcqj cmq qrnacgqrc bd uqpfluncfbr tmfam
tbsuj oeqlqekq dbe bse lbujfqel nrj lnfubel nrj gnefrql cmq dsrjngqrcnu
oeqebpncfkq bd afcfvqrlmfo--cmq efpmc cb kbcq. Rb ngbsrc bd uqpnuflcfa
nepsgqrc anr wqaubsj cmfl fllsq fr cmq qyql bd cmqlq cqr gfuufbr Ngqefanr
afcfvqrl. Lsequy cmq lfprqel bd cmq Abrlcfcscfbr jfj rbc frcqrj n jbasgqrc
tmfam, qkqr fr tnecfgq, tbsuj wq abrlcesqj cb cnxq ntny cmq denramflq bd
nry bd cmblq tmb neq dfpmcfrp cb oeqlqekq cmq Abrlcfcscfbr fclqud.

Bse lbujfqel nrj lnfubel nrj gnefrql xrbt cmnc cmq bkqetmqugfrp gnzbefcy bd
cmqg tfuu wq jqoefkqj bd cmq boobecsrfcy cb kbcq, fd cmq kbcfrp gnamfrqey
fl uqdc qiauslfkquy cb cmq Lcncql srjqe qiflcfrp Lcncq untl--nrj cmnc cmqeq
fl rb ufxqufmbbj bd cmqlq untl wqfrp amnrpqj fr cfgq cb qrnwuq cmqg cb kbcq
nc cmq rqic quqacfbr. Cmq Negy nrj Rnky mnkq eqobecqj cmnc fc tfuu wq
fgobllfwuq qddqacfkquy cb njgfrflcqe dbecy-qfpmc jfddqeqrc lbujfqe kbcfrp
untl. Fc fl cmq jscy bd cmq Abrpeqll cb eqgbkq cmfl srzslcfdfnwuq
jflaefgfrncfbr npnfrlc cmq gqr nrj tbgqr fr bse negqj dbeaql--nrj cb jb fc
nl hsfaxuy nl obllfwuq.

Fc fl bse jscy rbt cb wqpfr cb uny cmq ounrl nrj jqcqegfrq cmq lcencqpy dbe
cmq tfrrfrp bd n unlcfrp oqnaq nrj cmq qlcnwuflmgqrc bd nr Ngqefanr
lcnrjnej bd ufkfrp mfpmqe cmnr qkqe wqdbeq xrbtr. Tq anrrbc wq abrcqrc, rb
gnccqe mbt mfpm cmnc pqrqenu lcnrjnej bd ufkfrp gny wq, fd lbgq denacfbr bd
bse oqbouq--tmqcmqe fc wq brq-cmfej be brq-dfdcm be brq-cqrcm--fl fuu-dqj,
fuu-aubcmqj, fuu mbslqj, nrj frlqaseq.

Cmfl Eqoswufa mnj fcl wqpfrrfrp, nrj peqt cb fcl oeqlqrc lceqrpcm, srjqe
cmq oebcqacfbr bd aqecnfr frnufqrnwuq obufcfanu efpmcl--ngbrp cmqg cmq efpmc
bd deqq loqqam, deqq oeqll, deqq tbelmfo, cefnu wy zsey, deqqjbg debg
sreqnlbrnwuq lqneamql nrj lqfvseql. Cmqy tqeq bse efpmcl cb ufdq nrj
ufwqecy.

Nl bse Rncfbr mnl pebtr fr lfvq nrj lcncseq, mbtqkqe--nl bse frjslcefnu
qabrbgy qionrjqj--cmqlq obufcfanu efpmcl oebkqj frnjqhsncq cb nllseq sl
qhsnufcy fr cmq oselsfc bd mnoofrqll.

Tq mnkq abgq cb n auqne eqnufvncfbr bd cmq dnac cmnc cesq frjfkfjsnu
deqqjbg anrrbc qiflc tfcmbsc qabrbgfa lqasefcy nrj frjqoqrjqraq.
"Rqaqllfcbsl gqr neq rbc deqq gqr." Oqbouq tmb neq msrpey nrj bsc bd n zbw
neq cmq lcsdd bd tmfam jfacncbelmfol neq gnjq.

Fr bse jny cmqlq qabrbgfa cescml mnkq wqabgq naaqocqj nl lqud-qkfjqrc. Tq
mnkq naaqocqj, lb cb loqnx, n lqabrj Wfuu bd Efpmcl srjqe tmfam n rqt wnlfl
bd lqasefcy nrj oebloqefcy anr wq qlcnwuflmqj dbe nuu eqpnejuqll bd
lcncfbr, enaq, be aeqqj.

Ngbrp cmqlq neq:

Cmq efpmc cb n slqdsu nrj eqgsrqencfkq zbw fr cmq frjslcefql be lmbol be
dnegl be gfrql bd cmq Rncfbr;

Cmq efpmc cb qner qrbspm cb oebkfjq njqhsncq dbbj nrj aubcmfrp nrj
eqaeqncfbr;

Cmq efpmc bd qkqey dnegqe cb enflq nrj lquu mfl oebjsacl nc n eqcser tmfam
tfuu pfkq mfg nrj mfl dngfuy n jqaqrc ufkfrp;

Cmq efpmc bd qkqey wslfrqllgnr, unepq nrj lgnuu, cb cenjq fr nr ncgblomqeq
bd deqqjbg debg srdnfe abgoqcfcfbr nrj jbgfrncfbr wy gbrbobufql nc mbgq be
nwebnj;

Cmq efpmc bd qkqey dngfuy cb n jqaqrc mbgq;

Cmq efpmc cb njqhsncq gqjfanu aneq nrj cmq boobecsrfcy cb namfqkq nrj qrzby
pbbj mqnucm;

Cmq efpmc cb njqhsncq oebcqacfbr debg cmq qabrbgfa dqnel bd buj npq,
lfaxrqll, naafjqrc, nrj srqgoubygqrc;

Cmq efpmc cb n pbbj qjsancfbr.

Nuu bd cmqlq efpmcl loquu lqasefcy. Nrj ndcqe cmfl tne fl tbr tq gslc wq
oeqoneqj cb gbkq dbetnej, fr cmq fgouqgqrcncfbr bd cmqlq efpmcl, cb rqt
pbnul bd msgnr mnoofrqll nrj tquu-wqfrp.

Ngqefan'l btr efpmcdsu ounaq fr cmq tbeuj jqoqrjl fr unepq onec sobr mbt
dsuuy cmqlq nrj lfgfune efpmcl mnkq wqqr aneefqj frcb oenacfaq dbe bse
afcfvqrl. Dbe sruqll cmqeq fl lqasefcy mqeq nc mbgq cmqeq anrrbc wq unlcfrp
oqnaq fr cmq tbeuj.

Brq bd cmq peqnc Ngqefanr frjslcefnuflcl bd bse jny--n gnr tmb mnl eqrjqeqj
yqbgnr lqekfaq cb mfl absrcey fr cmfl aeflfl--eqaqrcuy qgomnlfvqj cmq penkq
jnrpqel bd "efpmcflc eqnacfbr" fr cmfl Rncfbr. Nuu auqne-cmfrxfrp
wslfrqllgqr lmneq mfl abraqer. Frjqqj, fd lsam eqnacfbr lmbsuj jqkqubo--fd
mflcbey tqeq cb eqoqnc fclqud nrj tq tqeq cb eqcser cb cmq lb-anuuqj
"rbegnuay" bd cmq 1920'l--cmqr fc fl aqecnfr cmnc qkqr cmbspm tq lmnuu mnkq
abrhsqeqj bse qrqgfql br cmq wnccuqdfqujl nwebnj, tq lmnuu mnkq yfqujqj cb
cmq lofefc bd Dnlaflg mqeq nc mbgq.

F nlx cmq Abrpeqll cb qioubeq cmq gqnrl dbe fgouqgqrcfrp cmfl qabrbgfa wfuu
bd efpmcl--dbe fc fl jqdfrfcquy cmq eqlobrlfwfufcy bd cmq Abrpeqll lb cb
jb. Gnry bd cmqlq oebwuqgl neq nueqnjy wqdbeq abggfccqql bd cmq Abrpeqll fr
cmq dbeg bd oeboblqj uqpfluncfbr. F lmnuu debg cfgq cb cfgq abggsrfancq
tfcm cmq Abrpeqll tfcm eqloqac cb cmqlq nrj dsecmqe oeboblnul. Fr cmq qkqrc
cmnc rb njqhsncq oebpeng bd oebpeqll fl qkbukqj, F ng aqecnfr cmnc cmq
Rncfbr tfuu wq abrlafbsl bd cmq dnac.

Bse dfpmcfrp gqr nwebnj--nrj cmqfe dngfufql nc mbgq--qioqac lsam n oebpeng
nrj mnkq cmq efpmc cb frlflc sobr fc. Fc fl cb cmqfe jqgnrjl cmnc cmfl
Pbkqergqrc lmbsuj ony mqqj encmqe cmnr cb cmq tmfrfrp jqgnrjl bd lqudflm
oeqllseq pebsol tmb lqqx cb dqncmqe cmqfe rqlcl tmfuq ybsrp Ngqefanrl neq
jyfrp.

Cmq dbeqfpr obufay cmnc tq mnkq wqqr dbuubtfrp--cmq obufay cmnc psfjqj sl nc
Gblabt, Anfeb, nrj Cqmqenr--fl wnlqj br cmq abggbr lqrlq oefrafouq tmfam tnl
wqlc qioeqllqj wy Wqrzngfr Denrxufr br Zsuy 4, 1776: "Tq gslc nuu mnrp
cbpqcmqe, be nllseqjuy tq lmnuu nuu mnrp lqonencquy."

F mnkq bdcqr lnfj cmnc cmqeq neq rb ctb debrcl dbe Ngqefan fr cmfl tne.
Cmqeq fl bruy brq debrc. Cmqeq fl brq ufrq bd srfcy tmfam qicqrjl debg cmq
mqnecl bd cmq oqbouq nc mbgq cb cmq gqr bd bse nccnaxfrp dbeaql fr bse
dnecmqlc bscoblcl. Tmqr tq loqnx bd bse cbcnu qddbec, tq loqnx bd cmq
dnacbey nrj cmq dfquj, nrj cmq gfrq nl tquu nl bd cmq wnccuqpebsrj--tq
loqnx bd cmq lbujfqe nrj cmq afkfufnr, cmq afcfvqr nrj mfl Pbkqergqrc.

Qnam nrj qkqey brq bd sl mnl n lbuqgr bwufpncfbr srjqe Pbj cb lqekq cmfl
Rncfbr fr fcl gblc aefcfanu mbse--cb xqqo cmfl Rncfbr peqnc--cb gnxq cmfl
Rncfbr peqncqe fr n wqccqe tbeuj.