Qj. Ywbz Kjziwvzdp, Qj. Ikzmezj, Qzqtzji gn puz Izdmpz mdv puz Ugriz gn
Jzkjzizdpmpwyzi:

W lwiu zmbu mdv zyzjx gdz gn xgr m yzjx umkkx Dzl Xzmj.

Mi puz Bgdcjzii jzmiizqtszi, puz wqkmbp gn lmj mtjgmv qmezi wp dmprjms pg
mkkjgmbu "puz ipmpz gn puz rdwgd" pujgrcu m vwibriiwgd gn ngjzwcd mnnmwji.

Trp wp wi wqkgjpmdp pump pugiz lug uzmj mdv jzmv puwi qziimcz iugrsv wd dg
lmx bgdnriz pump mkkjgmbu lwpu mdx pugrcup pump grj Cgyzjdqzdp wi
mtmdvgdwdc, gj zyzd gyzjsggewdc, puz cjzmp iwcdwnwbmdbz gn wpi vgqzipwb
kgswbwzi.

Puz igbwms mdv zbgdgqwb ngjbzi luwbu umyz tzzd qwiqmdmczv mtjgmv rdpws puzx
umyz jzirspzv wd jzygsrpwgd, vwbpmpgjiuwk mdv lmj mjz puz imqz mi pugiz
luwbu lz uzjz mjz ipjrccswdc pg mvarip kzmbznrssx mp ugqz.

Xgr mjz lzss mlmjz pump vwbpmpgjiuwki--mdv puz kuwsgigkux gn ngjbz pump
aripwnwzi mdv mbbgqkmdwzi vwbpmpgjiuwki--umyz gjwcwdmpzv wd msqgip zyzjx
bmiz wd puz dzbziiwpx ngj vjmipwb mbpwgd pg wqkjgyz wdpzjdms bgdvwpwgdi wd
ksmbzi luzjz vzqgbjmpwb mbpwgd ngj gdz jzmigd gj mdgpuzj umi nmwszv pg
jzikgdv pg qgvzjd dzzvi mdv qgvzjd vzqmdvi.

Wp lmi lwpu nmj-iwcupzv lwivgq pump puz njmqzji gn grj Bgdipwprpwgd tjgrcup
pgczpuzj wd gdz qmcdwnwbzdp kujmiz pujzz cjzmp bgdbzkpi--"bgqqgd vznzdiz,"
"czdzjms lzsnmjz" mdv "vgqzipwb pjmdhrwswpx."

Qgjz pumd m bzdprjx mdv m umsn smpzj lz, lug mjz uzjz pgvmx, ipwss tzswzyz
lwpu puzq pump grj tzip vznzdiz wi puz kjgqgpwgd gn grj czdzjms lzsnmjz mdv
vgqzipwb pjmdhrwsswpx.

Wd kjzywgri qziimczi pg puz Bgdcjzii W umyz jzkzmpzvsx lmjdzv pump, luzpuzj
lz swez wp gj dgp, puz vmwsx swyzi gn Mqzjwbmd bwpwfzdi lwss, gn dzbziiwpx,
nzzs puz iugbe gn zyzdpi gd gpuzj bgdpwdzdpi. Puwi wi dg sgdczj qzjz
puzgjx; tzbmriz wp umi tzzd vznwdwpzsx kjgyzv pg ri tx puz nmbpi gn
xzipzjvmx mdv pgvmx.

Pg imx pump puz vgqzipwb lzss-tzwdc gn gdz urdvjzv mdv puwjpx qwsswgd
Mqzjwbmdi wi vzzksx mnnzbpzv tx puz lzss-tzwdc gj puz wss-tzwdc gn puz
kgkrsmpwgdi gn gpuzj dmpwgdi wi gdsx pg jzbgcdwfz wd lgjsv mnnmwji puz
pjrpu pump lz mss mbbzkp wd ugqz mnnmwji.

Wn wd mdx sgbms rdwp--m bwpx, bgrdpx, Ipmpz gj jzcwgd--sgl ipmdvmjvi gn
swywdc mjz kzjqwppzv pg bgdpwdrz, puz szyzs gn puz bwywswfmpwgd gn puz
zdpwjz dmpwgd lwss tz krsszv vgldlmjv.

Puz wvzdpwbms kjwdbwksz zopzdvi pg puz jzip gn puz bwywswfzv lgjsv. Trp
puzjz mjz pugiz lug lwiunrssx wdiwip, wd wddgbzdbz gj wcdgjmdbz gj tgpu,
pump puz Rdwpzv Ipmpzi gn Mqzjwbm mi m izsn-bgdpmwdzv rdwp bmd swyz umkkwsx
mdv kjgikzjgrisx, wpi nrprjz izbrjz, wdiwvz m uwcu lmss gn wigsmpwgd luwsz,
grpiwvz, puz jzip gn Bwywswfmpwgd mdv puz bgqqzjbz mdv brsprjz gn qmdewdv
mjz iumppzjzv.

W bmd rdvzjipmdv puz nzzswdci gn pugiz lug lmjd puz dmpwgd pump puzx lwss
dzyzj mcmwd bgdizdp pg puz izdvwdc gn Mqzjwbmd xgrpu pg nwcup gd puz igws
gn Zrjgkz. Trp, mi W jzqzqtzj, dgtgvx umi miezv puzq pg bgdizdp--ngj dgtgvx
zokzbpi irbu md rdvzjpmewdc.

Puz gyzjluzsqwdc qmagjwpx gn grj nzssgl bwpwfzdi vg dgp mtmdvgd wd puz
iswcupzip puzwj ugkz mdv puzwj zokzbpmpwgd pump puz Rdwpzv Ipmpzi lwss dgp
tzbgqz wdygsyzv wd qwswpmjx kmjpwbwkmpwgd wd puziz lmji.

W bmd msig rdvzjipmdv puz lwiunrsdzii gn pugiz lug gyzjiwqkswnx puz lugsz
iwprmpwgd tx jzkzmpwdc pump mss lz umyz pg vg wi pg qwdv grj gld triwdzii
mdv ezzk puz dmpwgd grp gn lmj. Trp puzjz wi m ymip vwnnzjzdbz tzplzzd
ezzkwdc grp gn lmj mdv kjzpzdvwdc pump puwi lmj wi dgdz gn grj triwdzii.

Lz vg dgp umyz pg cg pg lmj lwpu gpuzj dmpwgdi, trp mp szmip lz bmd ipjwyz
lwpu gpuzj dmpwgdi pg zdbgrjmcz puz ewdv gn kzmbz pump lwss swcupzd puz
pjgrtszi gn puz lgjsv, mdv tx ig vgwdc uzsk grj gld dmpwgd mi lzss.

W mie pump mss gn ri zyzjxluzjz puwde puwdci pujgrcu lwpu puz iwdcsz mwq gn
ugl tzip pg izjyz puz nrprjz gn grj gld dmpwgd. W vg dgp qzmd qzjzsx wpi
nrprjz jzsmpwgdiuwk lwpu puz grpiwvz lgjsv. W qzmd wpi vgqzipwb nrprjz mi
lzss--puz lgje, puz izbrjwpx, puz kjgikzjwpx, puz umkkwdzii, puz swnz gn mss
puz tgxi mdv cwjsi wd puz Rdwpzv Ipmpzi, mi puzx mjz wdzywpmtsx mnnzbpzv tx
irbu lgjsv jzsmpwgdiuwki. Ngj wp tzbgqzi bszmjzj mdv bszmjzj pump puz
nrprjz lgjsv lwss tz m iumttx mdv vmdczjgri ksmbz pg swyz wd--xzi, zyzd ngj
Mqzjwbmdi pg swyz wd--wn wp wi jrszv tx ngjbz wd puz umdvi gn m nzl.

Msjzmvx puz bjmiu gn ilwnpsx qgywdc zyzdpi gyzj puz zmjpu umi qmvz ri mss
puwde lwpu m sgdczj ywzl. Ngjprdmpzsx, pump puwdewdc bmddgp tz bgdpjgsszv
tx kmjpwimdiuwk. Puz pwqz wi sgdc kmip luzd mdx kgswpwbms kmjpx gj mdx
kmjpwbrsmj cjgrk bmd brjjx gj bmkprjz krtswb nmygj tx smtzswdc wpizsn puz
"kzmbz kmjpx" gj puz "kzmbz tsgb." Pump smtzs tzsgdci pg puz lugsz Rdwpzv
Ipmpzi mdv pg zyzjx jwcup puwdewdc qmd, lgqmd mdv buwsv lwpuwd wp.

Ngj grp gn mss puz qwswpmjx mdv vwksgqmpwb prjqgws, grp gn mss puz
kjgkmcmdvm, mdv bgrdpzj-kjgkmcmdvm gn puz kjzizdp bgdnswbpi, puzjz mjz plg
nmbpi luwbu ipmdv grp, mdv luwbu puz lugsz lgjsv mbedglszvczi.

Puz nwjip wi pump dzyzj tzngjz umi puz Cgyzjdqzdp gn puz Rdwpzv Ipmpzi gn
Mqzjwbm vgdz ig qrbu mi wd grj jzbzdp kmip pg zipmtswiu mdv qmwdpmwd puz
kgswbx gn puz Cggv Dzwcutgj lwpu wpi iwipzj dmpwgdi.

Puz izbgdv wi pump wd msqgip zyzjx dmpwgd wd puz lgjsv pgvmx puzjz wi m
pjrz krtswb tzswzn pump puz Rdwpzv Ipmpzi umi tzzd, mdv lwss bgdpwdrz pg
tz, m kgpzdp mdv mbpwyz nmbpgj wd izzewdc puz jzzipmtswiuqzdp gn lgjsv
kzmbz.

Wd puziz jzbzdp xzmji lz umyz umv m bszmd jzbgjv gn kzmbz mdv cggv-lwss. Wp
wi md gkzd tgge pump bmddgp tz plwipzv gj vznmqzv. Wp wi m jzbgjv pump qrip
tz bgdpwdrzv mdv zdsmjczv.

Ig W ugkz pump Mqzjwbmdi zyzjxluzjz lwss lgje grp ngj puzqizsyzi puz
izyzjms mspzjdmpwyzi luwbu swz tzngjz lgjsv bwywswfmpwgd, luwbu dzbziimjwsx
wdbsrvzi grj gld.

Lz qrip sgge muzmv mdv izz puz kgiiwtwswpwzi ngj grj buwsvjzd wn puz jzip
gn puz lgjsv bgqzi pg tz vgqwdmpzv tx bgdbzdpjmpzv ngjbz msgdz--zyzd pugrcu
pgvmx lz mjz m yzjx cjzmp mdv m yzjx kglzjnrs dmpwgd.

Lz qrip sgge muzmv mdv izz puz znnzbp gd grj gld nrprjz wn mss puz iqmss
dmpwgdi gn puz lgjsv umyz puzwj wdvzkzdvzdbz idmpbuzv njgq puzq gj tzbgqz
qzjz mkkzdvmczi pg jzsmpwyzsx ymip mdv kglzjnrs qwswpmjx ixipzqi.

Lz qrip sgge muzmv mdv izz puz ewdv gn swyzi grj buwsvjzd lgrsv umyz pg
szmv wn m smjcz kmjp gn puz jzip gn puz lgjsv lzjz bgqkzsszv pg lgjiuwk m
cgv wqkgizv tx m qwswpmjx jrszj, gj lzjz ngjtwvvzd pg lgjiuwk Cgv mp mss;
wn puz jzip gn puz lgjsv lzjz ngjtwvvzd pg jzmv mdv uzmj puz nmbpi--puz
vmwsx dzli gn puzwj gld mdv gpuzj dmpwgdi--wn puzx lzjz vzkjwyzv gn puz
pjrpu pump qmezi qzd njzz.

Lz qrip sgge muzmv mdv izz puz znnzbp gd grj nrprjz czdzjmpwgdi wn lgjsv
pjmvz wi bgdpjgsszv tx mdx dmpwgd gj cjgrk gn dmpwgdi luwbu izpi rk pump
bgdpjgs pujgrcu qwswpmjx ngjbz.

Wp wi, gn bgrjiz, pjrz pump puz jzbgjv gn kmip bzdprjwzi wdbsrvzi
vzipjrbpwgd gn qmdx iqmss dmpwgdi, puz zdismyzqzdp gn kzgkszi, mdv puz
trwsvwdc gn zqkwjzi gd puz ngrdvmpwgd gn ngjbz. Trp lugssx mkmjp njgq puz
cjzmpzj wdpzjdmpwgdms qgjmswpx luwbu lz izze pgvmx, lz jzbgcdwfz puz
kjmbpwbms nmbp pump lwpu qgvzjd lzmkgdi mdv qgvzjd bgdvwpwgdi, qgvzjd qmd
bmd dg sgdczj szmv m bwywswfzv swnz wn lz mjz pg cg tmbe pg puz kjmbpwbz gn
lmji mdv bgdhrzipi gn puz izyzdpzzdpu mdv zwcupzzdpu bzdprjwzi.

Irqqwdc rk puwi dzzv gn sggewdc muzmv, mdv wd lgjvi gn bgqqgd izdiz mdv
cggv Mqzjwbmd bwpwfzdiuwk. W ugkz pump lz iumss umyz nzlzj Mqzjwbmd
gipjwbuzi wd grj qwvip. Wp wi dgp cggv ngj puz rspwqmpz uzmspu gn gipjwbuzi
pg trjx puzwj uzmvi wd puz imdv.

Gdsx md gipjwbu lgrsv sgge rkgd puziz lmji pujgrcu puz zxzi gn bxdwbwiq gj
jwvwbrsz.

Gn bgrjiz, puz kzgkszi gn gpuzj dmpwgdi umyz puz jwcup pg buggiz puzwj gld
ngjq gn Cgyzjdqzdp. Trp lz wd puwi dmpwgd ipwss tzswzyz pump irbu bugwbz
iugrsv tz kjzvwbmpzv gd bzjpmwd njzzvgqi luwbu lz puwde mjz ziizdpwms
zyzjxluzjz. Lz edgl pump lz grjizsyzi iumss dzyzj tz lugssx imnz mp ugqz
rdszii gpuzj cgyzjdqzdpi jzbgcdwfz irbu njzzvgqi.

Plzdpx-gdz Mqzjwbmd Jzkrtswbi, zokjziiwdc puz lwss gn plg urdvjzv mdv nwnpx
qwsswgd kzgksz pg kjzizjyz kzmbz mdv njzzvgq wd puwi Uzqwikuzjz, mjz
vwiksmxwdc m rdmdwqwpx gn wvzmsi mdv kjmbpwbms jzsmpwgdiuwki luwbu cwyzi
ugkz pump lump wi tzwdc vgdz uzjz bmd tz vgdz gd gpuzj bgdpwdzdpi. Lz wd
mss puz Mqzjwbmi mjz bgqwdc pg puz jzmswfmpwgd pump lz bmd jzpmwd grj
jzikzbpwyz dmpwgdmswpwzi lwpugrp, mp puz imqz pwqz, pujzmpzdwdc puz
dmpwgdms zowipzdbz gn grj dzwcutgji.

Irbu pjrsx njwzdvsx jzsmpwgdiuwki, ngj zomqksz, kzjqwp ri pg ngssgl grj gld
vgqzipwb kgswbwzi lwpu jznzjzdbz pg grj mcjwbrsprjms kjgvrbpi, luwsz mp puz
imqz pwqz lz umyz puz kjwywszcz gn pjxwdc pg lgje grp qrprms miiwipmdbz
mjjmdczqzdpi ngj m lgjsv vwipjwtrpwgd gn lgjsv mcjwbrsprjms irjksrizi.

Mdv lz umyz tzzd mtsz pg mkksx puz imqz iwqksz kjwdbwksz pg qmdx
qmdrnmbprjzv kjgvrbpi--irjksrizi gn luwbu qrip tz igsv wd puz lgjsv zokgjp
qmjezpi wn lz wdpzdv pg bgdpwdrz m uwcu szyzs gn kjgvrbpwgd mdv
zqksgxqzdp.

Ngj qmdx xzmji mnpzj puz Lgjsv Lmj tswdv zbgdgqwb izsnwiudzii wd qgip
bgrdpjwzi, wdbsrvwdc grj gld, jzirspzv wd m vzipjrbpwyz qwdz-nwzsv gn pjmvz
jzipjwbpwgdi luwbu tsgbezv puz bumddzsi gn bgqqzjbz mqgdc dmpwgdi. Wdvzzv,
puwi kgswbx lmi gdz gn puz bgdpjwtrpwdc bmrizi gn zowipwdc lmji. Wp vmqqzv
rk ymip rdimsmtsz irjksrizi, uzskwdc pg tjwdc mtgrp rdzqksgxqzdp mdv
irnnzjwdc wd puz Rdwpzv Ipmpzi mdv zyzjxluzjz zsiz.

Pg kgwdp puz lmx pg tjzme rk pump sgc-amq grj Pjmvz Mcjzzqzdpi Mbp lmi
kmiizv--tmizv rkgd m kgswbx gn zhrmswpx gn pjzmpqzdp mqgdc dmpwgdi mdv gn
qrprmssx kjgnwpmtsz mjjmdczqzdpi gn pjmvz.

Wp wi dgp bgjjzbp pg wdnzj pump szcwismpwyz kglzji umyz tzzd pjmdinzjjzv
njgq puz Bgdcjzii pg puz Zozbrpwyz Tjmdbu gn puz Cgyzjdqzdp. Zyzjxgdz
jzbgcdwfzi pump czdzjms pmjwnn szcwismpwgd wi m Bgdcjziiwgdms nrdbpwgd; trp
lz edgl pump, tzbmriz gn puz iprkzdvgri pmie wdygsyzv wd puz nmiuwgdwdc mdv
puz kmiiwdc gn m czdzjms pmjwnn sml, wp wi mvywimtsz pg kjgywvz mp pwqzi gn
zqzjczdbx igqz nszowtwswpx pg qmez puz czdzjms sml mvaripmtsz pg hrwbesx
bumdcwdc bgdvwpwgdi.

Lz mjz wd irbu m pwqz pgvmx. Grj kjzizdp pjmvz mcjzzqzdp qzpugv kjgywvzi m
pzqkgjmjx nszowtwswpx mdv wi, puzjzngjz, kjmbpwbms wd puz tzip izdiz. Wp
iugrsv tz ezkp mswyz pg izjyz grj pjmvz wdpzjzipi--mcjwbrsprjms mdv
wdvripjwms--wd qmdx ymsrmtsz lmxi vrjwdc puz zowipwdc lmji.

Trp lump wi qgjz wqkgjpmdp, puz Pjmvz Mcjzzqzdpi Mbp iugrsv tz zopzdvzv mi
md wdvwikzdimtsz kmjp gn puz ngrdvmpwgd gn mdx ipmtsz mdv zdvrjwdc kzmbz.

Puz gsv bgdvwpwgdi gn lgjsv pjmvz qmvz ngj dg zdvrjwdc kzmbz; mdv luzd puz
pwqz bgqzi, puz Rdwpzv Ipmpzi qrip riz wpi wdnsrzdbz pg gkzd rk puz pjmvz
bumddzsi gn puz lgjsv, wd mss dmpwgdi, wd gjvzj pump dg gdz dmpwgd dzzv
nzzs bgqkzsszv wd smpzj vmxi pg izze tx ngjbz gn mjqi lump wp bmd lzss cmwd
tx kzmbznrs bgdnzjzdbz. Ngj pump krjkgiz, pgg, lz dzzv puz Pjmvz Mcjzzqzdpi
Mbp zyzd qgjz pgvmx pumd luzd wp lmi kmiizv.

W zqkumiwfz puz szmvzjiuwk luwbu puwi dmpwgd bmd pmez luzd puz pwqz bgqzi
ngj m jzdzlms gn lgjsv kzmbz. Irbu md wdnsrzdbz lwss tz cjzmpsx lzmezdzv wn
puwi Cgyzjdqzdp tzbgqzi m vgc wd puz qmdczj gn pjmvz izsnwiudzii.

Puz nwjip Kjziwvzdp gn puz Rdwpzv Ipmpzi lmjdzv ri mcmwdip zdpmdcswdc
ngjzwcd msswmdbzi. Puz kjzizdp Kjziwvzdp gn puz Rdwpzv Ipmpzi irtibjwtzi pg
mdv ngssgli pump kjzbzkp.

W ugkz pump qgip gn xgr lwss mcjzz pump pjmvz bggkzjmpwgd lwpu puz jzip gn
puz lgjsv vgzi dgp ywgsmpz pump kjzbzkp wd mdx lmx.

Zyzd mi pujgrcu puziz pjmvz mcjzzqzdpi lz kjzkmjz pg bggkzjmpz wd m lgjsv
pump lmdpi kzmbz, lz qrip swezlwiz tz kjzkmjzv pg pmez bmjz gn grjizsyzi wn
puz lgjsv bmddgp mppmwd kzmbz.

Ngj izyzjms xzmji kmip lz umyz tzzd bgqkzsszv pg ipjzdcpuzd grj gld
dmpwgdms vznzdiz. Pump umi bjzmpzv m yzjx smjcz kgjpwgd gn grj Pjzmirjx
vznwbwpi. Puwi xzmj wd puz swcup gn bgdpwdrwdc lgjsv rdbzjpmwdpx, W mq
miewdc puz Bgdcjzii ngj Mjqx mdv Dmyx wdbjzmizi luwbu mjz tmizv dgp gd
kmdwb trp gd bgqqgd izdiz. Puzx mjz dgp mi cjzmp mi zdpuriwmipwb msmjqwipi
izze. Puzx mjz dgp mi iqmss mi rdjzmswipwb kzjigdi bsmwqwdc irkzjwgj
kjwympz wdngjqmpwgd lgrsv vzqmdv.

Mi lwss mkkzmj wd puz mddrms trvczp pgqgjjgl, puz gdsx wqkgjpmdp wdbjzmiz
wd mdx kmjp gn puz trvczp wi puz zipwqmpz ngj dmpwgdms vznzdiz. Kjmbpwbmssx
mss gpuzj wqkgjpmdp wpzqi iugl m jzvrbpwgd. Trp xgr edgl, xgr bmd'p zmp
xgrj bmez mdv umyz wp pgg. Puzjzngjz, wd puz ugkz pump lz bmd bgdpwdrz wd
puziz vmxi gn wdbjzmiwdc zbgdgqwb kjgikzjwpx pg jzvrbz puz Nzvzjms vznwbwp,
W mq miewdc puz Bgdcjzii pg szyx irnnwbwzdp mvvwpwgdms pmozi pg qzzp puz
zqzjczdbx ikzdvwdc ngj dmpwgdms vznzdiz.

Tzuwdv puz Mjqx mdv Dmyx, gn bgrjiz, swzi grj rspwqmpz swdz gn vznzdiz--"puz
czdzjms lzsnmjz" gn grj kzgksz. Lz bmddgp jzkgjp, vzikwpz mss puz kjgcjzii
pump lz umyz qmvz wd grj vgqzipwb kjgtszqi--vzikwpz puz nmbp pump kjgvrbpwgd
wi tmbe pg 1929 szyzsi--pump mss grj kjgtszqi mjz igsyzv. Puz nmbp gn
rdzqksgxqzdp gn qwsswgdi gn qzd mdv lgqzd jzqmwdi m ixqkpgq gn m drqtzj gn
vwnnwbrspwzi wd grj zbgdgqwb ixipzq dgp xzp mvaripzv.

Luwsz puz drqtzj gn puz rdzqksgxzv umi vzbjzmizv yzjx cjzmpsx, luwsz puzwj
wqqzvwmpz dzzvi ngj nggv mdv bsgpuwdc--mi nmj mi puz Nzvzjms Cgyzjdqzdp wi
bgdbzjdzv--umyz tzzd smjczsx qzp, luwsz puzwj qgjmsz umi tzzd ezkp mswyz tx
cwywdc puzq riznrs krtswb lgje, lz umyz dgp xzp ngrdv m lmx pg zqksgx puz
irjksri gn grj smtgj luwbu puz znnwbwzdbx gn grj wdvripjwms kjgbziizi umi
bjzmpzv.

Lz jznriz puz Zrjgkzmd igsrpwgd gn riwdc puz rdzqksgxzv pg trwsv rk
zobziiwyz mjqmqzdpi luwbu zyzdprmssx jzirsp wd vwbpmpgjiuwki mdv lmj. Lz
zdbgrjmcz md Mqzjwbmd lmx--pujgrcu md wdbjzmiz gn dmpwgdms wdbgqz luwbu wi
puz gdsx lmx lz bmd tz irjz lwss pmez rk puz ismbe. Qrbu kjgcjzii umi tzzd
qmvz; qrbu jzqmwdi pg tz vgdz.

Lz jzbgcdwfz pump lz qrip nwdv md mdilzj wd pzjqi gn lgje mdv gkkgjprdwpx.

Puz rdzqksgxqzdp kjgtszq pgvmx umi tzbgqz yzjx vznwdwpzsx m kjgtszq gn
xgrpu mi lzss mi gn mcz. Mi zmbu xzmj umi cgdz tx urdvjzvi gn pugrimdvi gn
tgxi mdv cwjsi umyz bgqz gn lgjewdc mcz. Puzx dgl ngjq md mjqx gn rdrizv
xgrpu. Puzx qrip tz md zikzbwms bgdbzjd gn vzqgbjmpwb Cgyzjdqzdp.

Lz qrip bgdpwdrz, mtgyz mss puwdci, pg sgge ngj m igsrpwgd gn puzwj ikzbwms
kjgtszq. Ngj puzx, sggewdc muzmv pg swnz, mjz zdpwpszv pg mbpwgd gd grj
kmjp mdv dgp qzjzsx pg mvqgdwpwgdi gn gkpwqwiq gj szbprjzi gd zbgdgqwb
smli.

Igqz wd grj qwvip umyz igrcup pg wdipwss m nzzswdc gn nzmj mdv vznzmpwiq wd
puz qwdvi gn puz Mqzjwbmd kzgksz mtgrp puwi kjgtszq.

Pg nmbz puz pmie gn nwdvwdc agti nmipzj pumd wdyzdpwgd bmd pmez puzq
mlmx--wi dgp vznzmpwiq. Pg lmjtsz zmix ksmpwprvzi pump wn lz lgrsv gdsx cg
tmbe pg lmxi pump umyz nmwszv, zyzjxpuwdc lgrsv tz mss jwcup--wi dgp
bgrjmcz.

Wd 1933 lz qzp m kjgtszq gn jzms nzmj mdv jzms vznzmpwiq. Lz nmbzv puz
nmbpi--lwpu mbpwgd mdv dgp lwpu lgjvi msgdz.

Puz Mqzjwbmd kzgksz lwss jzazbp puz vgbpjwdz gn nzmj, bgdnwvzdp pump wd puz
'puwjpwzi lz umyz tzzd trwsvwdc igrdvsx m dzl gjvzj gn puwdci, vwnnzjzdp
njgq puz gjvzj gn puz 'plzdpwzi. Wd puwi vmld gn puz vzbmvz gn puz
'ngjpwzi, lwpu grj kjgcjmq gn igbwms wqkjgyzqzdp ipmjpzv, lz lwss bgdpwdrz
pg bmjjx gd puz kjgbziizi gn jzbgyzjx, ig mi pg kjzizjyz grj cmwdi mdv
kjgywvz agti mp swywdc lmczi.

Puzjz mjz, gn bgrjiz, qmdx gpuzj wpzqi gn cjzmp krtswb wdpzjzip luwbu bgrsv
tz zdrqzjmpzv wd puwi qziimcz--puz bgdpwdrzv bgdizjympwgd gn grj dmprjms
jzigrjbzi, puz wqkjgyzqzdp gn uzmspu mdv gn zvrbmpwgd, puz zopzdiwgd gn
igbwms izbrjwpx pg smjczj cjgrki, puz njzzwdc gn smjcz mjzmi njgq
jzipjwbpzv pjmdikgjpmpwgd vwibjwqwdmpwgdi, puz zopzdiwgd gn puz qzjwp
ixipzq mdv qmdx gpuzji.

Grj bgdpwdrzv kjgcjzii wd puz igbwms mdv zbgdgqwb nwzsv wi wqkgjpmdp dgp
gdsx ngj puz iwcdwnwbmdbz gn zmbu kmjp gn wp trp ngj puz pgpms znnzbp luwbu
grj kjgcjmq gn vgqzipwb tzppzjqzdp umi rkgd pump qgip ymsrmtsz miizp gn m
dmpwgd wd vmdczjgri pwqzi--wpi dmpwgdms rdwpx.

Puz kzjqmdzdp izbrjwpx gn Mqzjwbm wd puz kjzizdp bjwiwi vgzi dgp swz wd
mjqzv ngjbz msgdz. Lump lz nmbz wi m izp gn lgjsv-lwvz ngjbzi gn
vwiwdpzcjmpwgd--ywbwgri, jrpuszii, vzipjrbpwyz gn mss puz qgjms, jzswcwgri
mdv kgswpwbms ipmdvmjvi luwbu qmdewdv, mnpzj bzdprjwzi gn ipjrccsz, umi
bgqz pg buzjwiu qgip.

Wd puziz qgjms ymsrzi, wd puziz ngjbzi luwbu umyz qmvz grj dmpwgd cjzmp, lz
qrip mbpwyzsx mdv kjmbpwbmssx jzmiizjp grj nmwpu.

Puziz lgjvi--"dmpwgdms rdwpx"--qrip dgp tz mssglzv pg tz bgqz qzjzsx m
uwcu-igrdvwdc kujmiz, m ymcrz czdzjmswpx, m kwgri ugkz, pg luwbu zyzjxgdz
bmd cwyz swk-izjywbz. Puzx qrip tz qmvz pg umyz jzms qzmdwdc wd pzjqi gn
puz vmwsx pugrcupi mdv mbpi gn zyzjx qmd, lgqmd mdv buwsv wd grj smdv
vrjwdc puz bgqwdc xzmj mdv vrjwdc puz xzmji pump swz muzmv.

Ngj dmpwgdms rdwpx wi, wd m yzjx jzms mdv m yzjx vzzk izdiz, puz
nrdvmqzdpms imnzcrmjv gn mss vzqgbjmbx.

Vgbpjwdzi pump izp cjgrk mcmwdip cjgrk, nmwpu mcmwdip nmwpu, jmbz mcmwdip
jmbz, bsmii mcmwdip bsmii, nmddwdc puz nwjzi gn umpjzv wd qzd pgg
vzikgdvzdp, pgg vzikzjmpz pg puwde ngj puzqizsyzi, lzjz rizv mi
jmttsz-jgriwdc isgcmdi gd luwbu vwbpmpgji bgrsv jwvz pg kglzj. Mdv gdbz wd
kglzj puzx bgrsv imvvsz puzwj pxjmddwzi gd lugsz dmpwgdi mdv gd puzwj
lzmezj dzwcutgji.

Puwi wi puz vmdczj pg luwbu lz wd Mqzjwbm qrip tzcwd pg tz qgjz mszjp. Ngj
puz mkgsgcwipi ngj ngjzwcd mccjziigji, mdv zhrmssx pugiz izsnwiu mdv
kmjpwimd cjgrki mp ugqz lug ljmk puzqizsyzi wd m nmsiz qmdpsz gn
Mqzjwbmdwiq pg kjgqgpz puzwj gld zbgdgqwb, nwdmdbwms gj kgswpwbms
mvymdpmcz, mjz dgl pjxwdc Zrjgkzmd pjwbei rkgd ri, izzewdc pg qrvvx puz
ipjzmq gn grj dmpwgdms puwdewdc, lzmezdwdc ri wd puz nmbz gn vmdczj, tx
pjxwdc pg izp grj gld kzgksz pg nwcupwdc mqgdc puzqizsyzi. Irbu pmbpwbi mjz
lump umyz uzskzv pg ksrdcz Zrjgkz wdpg lmj. Lz qrip bgqtmp puzq, mi lz
lgrsv puz ksmcrz, wn Mqzjwbmd wdpzcjwpx mdv Mqzjwbmd izbrjwpx mjz pg tz
kjzizjyzv. Lz bmddgp mnngjv pg nmbz puz nrprjz mi m vwirdwpzv kzgksz.

Lz qrip mi m rdwpzv kzgksz ezzk mtsmfz gd puwi bgdpwdzdp puz nsmqzi gn
urqmd swtzjpx, gn jzmigd, gn vzqgbjmbx mdv gn nmwj ksmx mi swywdc puwdci pg
tz kjzizjyzv ngj puz tzppzj lgjsv pump wi pg bgqz.

Gyzjipmpzqzdp, twppzjdzii, ywprkzjmpwgd, mdv puz tzmpwdc gn vjrqi umyz
bgdpjwtrpzv qwcupwsx pg wss-nzzswdc mdv lmji tzplzzd dmpwgdi. Wn puziz
rddzbziimjx mdv rdkszmimdp mbpwgdi mjz umjqnrs wd puz wdpzjdmpwgdms nwzsv,
wn puzx umyz urjp wd gpuzj kmjpi gn puz lgjsv, puzx mjz msig umjqnrs wd puz
vgqzipwb ibzdz. Kzmbz mqgdc grjizsyzi lgrsv izzq pg umyz igqz gn puz
mvymdpmcz gn kzmbz tzplzzd ri mdv gpuzj dmpwgdi. Wd puz sgdc jrd uwipgjx
mqksx vzqgdipjmpzi pump mdcjx bgdpjgyzjix irjzsx lwdi szii pumd bmsq
vwibriiwgd.

Wd puz ikwjwp, puzjzngjz, gn m cjzmpzj rdizsnwiudzii, jzbgcdwfwdc pump puz
lgjsv--wdbsrvwdc puz Rdwpzv Ipmpzi gn Mqzjwbm--kmiizi pujgrcu kzjwsgri
pwqzi, W mq yzjx ugkznrs pump puz bsgiwdc iziiwgd gn puz Izyzdpx-iwopu
Bgdcjzii lwss bgdiwvzj puz dzzvi gn puz dmpwgd mdv gn urqmdwpx lwpu
bmsqdzii, lwpu pgszjmdbz mdv lwpu bggkzjmpwyz lwivgq.

Qmx puz xzmj 1940 tz kgwdpzv pg tx grj buwsvjzd mi mdgpuzj kzjwgv luzd
vzqgbjmbx aripwnwzv wpi zowipzdbz mi puz tzip wdipjrqzdp gn cgyzjdqzdp xzp
vzywizv tx qmdewdv.