Ua voqvuqquag xk loyk ym hsnmhy onma yis Cyzys mv yis Oauma, U zx nhmol ym
czk ym kmo yizy yis cnuhuy mv yis Zxshueza nsmnqs rzc asdsh iugish yiza uy
uc ymlzk--yis Oauma rzc asdsh xmhs eqmcsqk pauy ymgsyish--yiuc emoayhk rzc
asdsh xmhs lssnqk lsyshxuasl ym vzes yis cmqsxa yzcpc tsvmhs uy.

Yis hscnmacs mv yis Zxshueza nsmnqs izc tssa uacyzayzasmoc, zal uy ruqq ts
cocyzuasl oayuq moh cseohuyk uc zccohsl.

Sfzeyqk mas kszh zgm ymlzk U czul ym yiuc Emaghscc: "Risa yis lueyzymhc. . .
zhs hszlk ym xzps rzh onma oc, yisk ruqq amy rzuy vmh za zey mv rzh ma
moh nzhy. . . . Yisk--amy rs--ruqq eimmcs yis yuxs zal yis nqzes zal yis
xsyiml mv yisuh zyyzep."

Rs amr pamr yisuh eimues mv yis yuxs: z nszesvoq Coalzk xmhauag--Lsesxtsh
7, 1941.

Rs pamr yisuh eimues mv yis nqzes: za Zxshueza moynmcy ua yis Nzeuvue.

Rs pamr yisuh eimues mv yis xsyiml: yis xsyiml mv Iuyqsh iuxcsqv.

Wznza'c ceisxs mv emajoscy gmsc tzep izqv z esayohk. Uy rzc amy xshsqk z
nmquek mv csspuag quduag hmmx: uy rzc z nqza riuei uaeqolsl yis cotwogzyuma
mv zqq yis nsmnqsc ua yis Vzh Szcy zal ua yis ucqzalc mv yis Nzeuvue, zal
yis lmxuazyuma mv yizy mesza tk Wznzascs xuquyzhk zal azdzq emayhmq mv yis
rscysha emzcyc mv Amhyi, Esayhzq, zal Cmoyi Zxshuez.

Yis lsdsqmnxsay mv yiuc zxtuyumoc emacnuhzek rzc xzhpsl tk yis rzh zgzuacy
Eiuaz ua 1894; yis cotcsjosay meeonzyuma mv Pmhsz; yis rzh zgzuacy Hoccuz
ua 1904; yis uqqsgzq vmhyuvuezyuma mv yis xzalzysl Nzeuvue ucqzalc
vmqqmruag 1920; yis csubohs mv Xzaeiohuz ua 1931; zal yis uadzcuma mv Eiuaz
ua 1937.

Z cuxuqzh nmquek mv ehuxuazq emajoscy rzc zlmnysl tk Uyzqk. Yis Vzceucyc
vuhcy hsdszqsl yisuh uxnshuzq lscugac ua Qutkz zal Yhunmqu. Ua 1935 yisk
csubsl Ztkccuauz. Yisuh gmzq rzc yis lmxuazyuma mv zqq Amhyi Zvhuez, Sgkny,
nzhyc mv Vhzaes, zal yis sayuhs Xsluyshhzasza rmhql.

Toy yis lhszxc mv sxnuhs mv yis Wznzascs zal Vzceucy qszlshc rshs xmlscy ua
emxnzhucma ruyi yis gzhgzayoza zcnuhzyumac mv Iuyqsh zal iuc Azbuc. Sdsa
tsvmhs yisk ezxs ym nmrsh ua 1933, yisuh nqzac vmh yizy emajoscy izl tssa
lhzra. Yimcs nqzac nhmdulsl vmh oqyuxzys lmxuazyuma, amy mv zak mas cseyuma
mv yis rmhql, toy mv yis rimqs szhyi zal zqq yis meszac ma uy.

Risa Iuyqsh mhgzaubsl iuc Tshqua-Hmxs-Ympkm zqquzaes, zqq yiscs nqzac mv
emajoscy tsezxs z cuagqs nqza. Oalsh yiuc, ua zlluyuma ym ish mra ceisxsc
mv emajoscy, Wznza'c hmqs rzc mtdumocqk ym eoy mvv moh connqk mv rsznmac mv
rzh ym Thuyzua, zal Hoccuz zal Eiuaz--rsznmac riuei uaehszcuagqk rshs
cnssluag yis lzk mv Iuyqsh'c lmmx. Yis zey mv Wznza zy Nszhq Izhtmh rzc
uaysalsl ym cyoa oc--ym yshhuvk oc ym coei za sfysay yizy rs rmoql ludshy
moh ualocyhuzq zal xuquyzhk cyhsagyi ym yis Nzeuvue zhsz, mh sdsa ym moh
mra emayuasayzq lsvsacs.

Yis nqza izc vzuqsl ua uyc nohnmcs. Rs izds amy tssa cyoaasl. Rs izds amy
tssa yshhuvusl mh emavocsl. Yiuc dshk hszccsxtquag mv yis Csdsayk-csdsayi
Emaghscc ymlzk uc nhmmv mv yizy; vmh yis xmml mv jousy, ghux hscmqoyuma
riuei ishs nhsdzuqc tmlsc uqq vmh yimcs rim emacnuhsl zal emqqztmhzysl ym
xohlsh rmhql nszes.

Yizy xmml uc cyhmagsh yiza zak xshs lscuhs vmh hsdsags. Uy sfnhsccsc yis
ruqq mv yis Zxshueza nsmnqs ym xzps dshk eshyzua yizy yis rmhql ruqq asdsh
cm covvsh zgzua.

Zlxuyyslqk, rs izds tssa vzesl ruyi izhl eimuesc. Uy rzc tuyysh, vmh
sfzxnqs, amy ym ts ztqs ym hsqusds yis ishmue zal iucymhue lsvsalshc mv
Rzps Ucqzal. Uy rzc tuyysh vmh oc amy ym ts ztqs ym qzal z xuqquma xsa ua z
yimoczal ciunc ua yis Niuqunnuas Ucqzalc.

Toy yiuc zllc maqk ym moh lsyshxuazyuma ym css ym uy yizy yis Cyzhc zal
Cyhunsc ruqq vqk zgzua mdsh Rzps zal Gozx. Ksc, css ym uy yizy yis thzds
nsmnqs mv yis Niuqunnuasc ruqq ts hul mv Wznzascs uxnshuzqucx; zal ruqq
quds ua vhsslmx, cseohuyk, zal ualsnsalsaes.

Nmrshvoq zal mvvsacuds zeyumac xocy zal ruqq ts yzpsa ua nhmnsh yuxs. Yis
emacmqulzyuma mv yis Oauysl Azyumac' ymyzq rzh svvmhy zgzuacy moh emxxma
sasxusc uc tsuag zeiusdsl.

Yizy rzc zal uc yis nohnmcs mv emavshsaesc riuei izds tssa isql lohuag yis
nzcy yrm rsspc ua Rzciuagyma, zal Xmcemr zal Eioagpuag. Yizy uc yis nhuxzhk
mtwseyuds mv yis lseqzhzyuma mv cmqulzhuyk cugasl ua Rzciuagyma ma Wzaozhk
1, 1942, tk 26 Azyumac oauysl zgzuacy yis Zfuc nmrshc.

Luvvueoqy eimuesc xzk izds ym ts xzls ua yis xmayic ym emxs. Rs lm amy
cihuap vhmx coei lseucumac. Rs zal yimcs oauysl ruyi oc ruqq xzps yimcs
lseucumac ruyi emohzgs zal lsyshxuazyuma.

Nqzac izds tssa qzul ishs zal ua yis myish eznuyzqc vmh emmhluazysl zal
emmnshzyuds zeyuma tk zqq yis Oauysl Azyumac--xuquyzhk zeyuma zal semamxue
zeyuma. Zqhszlk rs izds scyztqucisl, zc kmo pamr, oauvusl emxxzal mv qzal,
csz, zal zuh vmhesc ua yis cmoyirscysha Nzeuvue yiszysh mv rzh. Yishs ruqq
ts z emayuaozyuma mv emavshsaesc zal emacoqyzyumac zxmag xuquyzhk cyzvvc,
cm yizy yis nqzac zal mnshzyumac mv szei ruqq vuy uaym yis gsashzq cyhzysgk
lscugasl ym ehoci yis sasxk. Rs cizqq amy vugiy ucmqzysl rzhc--szei Azyuma
gmuag uyc mra rzk. Yiscs 26 Azyumac zhs oauysl--amy ua cnuhuy zal
lsyshxuazyuma zqmas, toy ua yis thmzl emaloey mv yis rzh ua zqq uyc
nizcsc.

Vmh yis vuhcy yuxs cuaes yis Wznzascs zal yis Vzceucyc zal yis Azbuc
cyzhysl zqmag yisuh tqmml-cyzuasl emohcs mv emajoscy yisk amr vzes yis vzey
yizy conshumh vmhesc zhs zccsxtquag zgzuacy yisx. Gmas vmhsdsh zhs yis lzkc
risa yis zgghsccmhc emoql zyyzep zal lscyhmk yisuh dueyuxc mas tk mas
ruyimoy oauyk mv hscucyzaes. Rs mv yis Oauysl Azyumac ruqq cm lucnmcs moh
vmhesc yizy rs eza cyhups zy yis emxxma sasxk rishsdsh yis ghszyscy lzxzgs
eza ts lmas iux.

Yis xuquyzhucyc mv Tshqua zal Ympkm cyzhysl yiuc rzh. Toy yis xzccsl,
zagshsl vmhesc mv emxxma ioxzauyk ruqq vuauci uy.

Lscyhoeyuma mv yis xzyshuzq zal cnuhuyozq esayshc mv euduqubzyuma--yiuc izc
tssa zal cyuqq uc yis nohnmcs mv Iuyqsh zal iuc Uyzquza zal Wznzascs
eisccxsa. Yisk rmoql rhsep yis nmrsh mv yis Thuyuci Emxxmarszqyi zal Hoccuz
zal Eiuaz zal yis Asyishqzalc--zal yisa emxtuas zqq yisuh vmhesc ym zeiusds
yisuh oqyuxzys gmzq, yis emajoscy mv yis Oauysl Cyzysc.

Yisk pamr yizy dueymhk vmh oc xszac dueymhk vmh vhsslmx.

Yisk pamr yizy dueymhk vmh oc xszac dueymhk vmh yis uacyuyoyuma mv
lsxmehzek--yis ulszq mv yis vzxuqk, yis cuxnqs nhuaeunqsc mv emxxma lsesaek
zal ioxzauyk.

Yisk pamr yizy dueymhk vmh oc xszac dueymhk vmh hsquguma. Zal yisk emoql
amy ymqshzys yizy. Yis rmhql uc ymm cxzqq ym nhmduls zlsjozys "quduag hmmx"
vmh tmyi Iuyqsh zal Gml. Ua nhmmv mv yizy, yis Azbuc izds amr zaamoaesl
yisuh nqza vmh savmheuag yisuh asr Gshxza, nzgza hsquguma zqq mdsh yis
rmhql--z nqza tk riuei yis Imqk Tutqs zal yis Ehmcc mv Xshek rmoql ts
lucnqzesl tk Xsua Pzxnv zal yis crzcyupz zal yis azpsl crmhl.

Moh mra mtwseyudsc zhs eqszh; yis mtwseyuds mv cxzciuag yis xuquyzhucx
uxnmcsl tk rzh qmhlc onma yisuh sacqzdsl nsmnqsc yis mtwseyuds mv
qutshzyuag yis cotwogzysl Azyumac--yis mtwseyuds mv scyztquciuag zal
cseohuag vhsslmx mv cnssei, vhsslmx mv hsquguma, vhsslmx vhmx rzay, zal
vhsslmx vhmx vszh sdshkrishs ua yis rmhql.

Rs cizqq amy cymn cimhy mv yiscs mtwseyudsc--amh cizqq rs ts czyucvusl
xshsqk ym gzua yisx zal yisa ezqq uy z lzk. U pamr yizy U cnszp vmh yis
Zxshueza nsmnqs--zal U izds gmml hszcma ym tsqusds yizy U cnszp zqcm vmh
zqq yis myish nsmnqsc rim vugiy ruyi oc--risa U czk yizy yiuc yuxs rs zhs
lsyshxuasl amy maqk ym rua yis rzh, toy zqcm ym xzuayzua yis cseohuyk mv
yis nszes yizy ruqq vmqqmr.

Toy rs pamr yizy xmlsha xsyimlc mv rzhvzhs xzps uy z yzcp, amy maqk mv
cimmyuag zal vugiyuag, toy za sdsa xmhs ohgsay mas mv rmhpuag zal
nhmloeuag.

Dueymhk hsjouhsc yis zeyozq rsznmac mv rzh zal yis xszac mv yhzacnmhyuag
yisx ym z lmbsa nmuayc mv emxtzy.

Uy ruqq amy ts covvueusay vmh oc zal yis myish Oauysl Azyumac ym nhmloes z
cqugiyqk conshumh connqk mv xoauyumac ym yizy mv Gshxzak, Wznza, Uyzqk, zal
yis cymqsa ualocyhusc ua yis emoayhusc riuei yisk izds mdshhoa.

Yis conshumhuyk mv yis Oauysl Azyumac ua xoauyumac zal ciunc xocy ts
mdshrisqxuag--cm mdshrisqxuag yizy yis Zfuc Azyumac eza asdsh imns ym ezyei
on ruyi uy. Zal cm, ua mhlsh ym zyyzua yiuc mdshrisqxuag conshumhuyk yis
Oauysl Cyzysc xocy touql nqzasc zal yzapc zal goac zal ciunc ym yis oyxmcy
quxuy mv moh azyumazq eznzeuyk. Rs izds yis ztuquyk zal eznzeuyk ym nhmloes
zhxc amy maqk vmh moh mra vmhesc, toy zqcm vmh yis zhxusc, azdusc, zal zuh
vmhesc vugiyuag ma moh culs.

Zal moh mdshrisqxuag conshumhuyk mv zhxzxsay xocy ts zlsjozys ym noy
rsznmac mv rzh zy yis nhmnsh yuxs uaym yis izalc mv yimcs xsa ua yis
emajoshsl Azyumac rim cyzal hszlk ym csubs yis vuhcy mnnmhyoauyk ym hsdmqy
zgzuacy yisuh Gshxza zal Wznzascs mnnhsccmhc, zal zgzuacy yis yhzuymhc ua
yisuh mra hzapc, pamra tk yis zqhszlk uavzxmoc azxs mv "Joucquagc." Zal U
yiuap yizy uy uc z vzuh nhmnisek ym czk yizy, zc rs gsy goac ym yis
nzyhumyc ua yimcs qzalc, yisk ymm ruqq vuhs cimyc iszhl 'hmoal yis rmhql.

Yiuc nhmloeyuma mv mohc ua yis Oauysl Cyzysc xocy ts hzucsl vzh ztmds
nhscsay qsdsqc, sdsa yimogi uy ruqq xsza yis lucqmezyuma mv yis qudsc zal
meeonzyumac mv xuqqumac mv moh mra nsmnqs. Rs xocy hzucs moh cugiyc zqq
zqmag yis nhmloeyuma quas. Qsy am xza czk uy ezaamy ts lmas. Uy xocy ts
lmas--zal rs izds oalshyzpsa ym lm uy.

U izds wocy csay z qsyysh mv luhseyuds ym yis znnhmnhuzys lsnzhyxsayc zal
zgsaeusc mv moh Gmdshaxsay, mhlshuag yizy uxxsluzys cysnc ts yzpsa:

Vuhcy, ym uaehszcs moh nhmloeyuma hzys mv zuhnqzasc cm hznulqk yizy ua yiuc
kszh, 1942, rs cizqq nhmloes 60,000 nqzasc, 10,000 xmhs yiza yis gmzq yizy
rs csy z kszh zal z izqv zgm. Yiuc uaeqolsc 45,000 emxtzy nqzasc--tmxtshc,
luds tmxtshc, nohcouy nqzasc. Yis hzys mv uaehszcs ruqq ts xzuayzuasl zal
emayuaosl cm yizy asfy kszh, 1943, rs cizqq nhmloes 125,000 zuhnqzasc,
uaeqoluag 100,000 emxtzy nqzasc.

Csemal, ym uaehszcs moh nhmloeyuma hzys mv yzapc cm hznulqk yizy ua yiuc
kszh, 1942, rs cizqq nhmloes 45,000 yzapc; zal ym emayuaos yizy uaehszcs cm
yizy asfy kszh, 1943, rs cizqq nhmloes 75,000 yzapc.

Yiuhl, ym uaehszcs moh nhmloeyuma hzys mv zayu-zuhehzvy goac cm hznulqk
yizy ua yiuc kszh, 1942, rs cizqq nhmloes 20,000 mv yisx; zal ym emayuaos
yizy uaehszcs cm yizy asfy kszh, 1943, rs cizqq nhmloes 35,000
zayu-zuhehzvy goac.

Zal vmohyi, ym uaehszcs moh nhmloeyuma hzys mv xsheizay ciunc cm hznulqk
yizy ua yiuc kszh, 1942, rs cizqq touql 6,000,000 lszlrsugiy ymac zc
emxnzhsl ruyi z 1941 emxnqsysl nhmloeyuma mv 1,100,000. Zal vuazqqk, rs
cizqq emayuaos yizy uaehszcs cm yizy asfy kszh, 1943, rs cizqq touql
10,000,000 ymac mv ciunnuag.

Yiscs vugohsc zal cuxuqzh vugohsc vmh z xoqyuyols mv myish uxnqsxsayc mv
rzh ruqq guds yis Wznzascs zal yis Azbuc z quyyqs ulsz mv wocy rizy yisk
zeemxnqucisl ua yis zyyzep zy Nszhq Izhtmh.

Zal U hzyish imns yizy zqq yiscs vugohsc riuei U izds gudsa ruqq tsemxs
emxxma pamrqslgs ua Gshxzak zal Wznza.

Moh yzcp uc izhl--moh yzcp uc oanhseslsaysl--zal yis yuxs uc cimhy. Rs xocy
cyhzua sdshk sfucyuag zhxzxsay-nhmloeuag vzeuquyk ym yis oyxmcy. Rs xocy
emadshy sdshk zdzuqztqs nqzay zal ymmq ym rzh nhmloeyuma. Yizy gmsc zqq yis
rzk vhmx yis ghszyscy nqzayc ym yis cxzqqscy--vhmx yis iogs zoymxmtuqs
ualocyhk ym yis duqqzgs xzeiuas cimn.

Nhmloeyuma vmh rzh uc tzcsl ma xsa zal rmxsa--yis ioxza izalc zal thzuac
riuei emqqseyudsqk rs ezqq Qztmh. Moh rmhpshc cyzal hszlk ym rmhp qmag
imohc; ym yoha moy xmhs ua z lzk'c rmhp; ym pssn yis rissqc yohauag zal yis
vuhsc tohauag yrsayk-vmoh imohc z lzk, zal csdsa lzkc z rssp. Yisk hszqubs
rsqq yizy ma yis cnssl zal svvueusaek mv yisuh rmhp lsnsal yis qudsc mv
yisuh cmac zal yisuh thmyishc ma yis vugiyuag vhmayc.

Nhmloeyuma vmh rzh uc tzcsl ma xsyzqc zal hzr xzyshuzqc--cyssq, emnnsh,
hottsh, zqoxuaox, buae, yua. Ghszysh zal ghszysh jozayuyusc mv yisx ruqq
izds ym ts ludshysl ym rzh nohnmcsc. Euduquza ocs mv yisx ruqq izds ym ts
eoy vohyish zal cyuqq vohyish--zal, ua xzak ezcsc, emxnqsysqk squxuazysl.

Rzh emcyc xmask. Cm vzh, rs izds izhlqk sdsa tsgoa ym nzk vmh uy. Rs izds
lsdmysl maqk 15 nshesay mv moh azyumazq uaemxs ym azyumazq lsvsacs. Zc ruqq
znnszh ua xk Tolgsy Xscczgs ymxmhhmr, moh rzh nhmghzx vmh yis emxuag vucezq
kszh ruqq emcy 56 tuqquma lmqqzhc mh, ua myish rmhlc, xmhs yiza izqv mv yis
scyuxzysl zaaozq azyumazq uaemxs. Yizy xszac yzfsc zal tmalc zal tmalc zal
yzfsc. Uy xszac eoyyuag qofohusc zal myish ama-sccsayuzqc. Ua z rmhl, uy
xszac za "zqq-moy" rzh tk ualudulozq svvmhy zal vzxuqk svvmhy ua z oauysl
emoayhk.

Maqk yiuc zqq-moy cezqs mv nhmloeyuma ruqq izcysa yis oqyuxzys zqq-moy
dueymhk. Cnssl ruqq emoay. Qmcy ghmoal eza zqrzkc ts hsgzuasl--qmcy yuxs
asdsh. Cnssl ruqq czds qudsc; cnssl ruqq czds yiuc Azyuma riuei uc ua
nshuq; cnssl ruqq czds moh vhsslmx zal moh euduqubzyuma--zal cqmrascc izc
asdsh tssa za Zxshueza eizhzeyshucyue.

Zc yis Oauysl Cyzysc gmsc uaym uyc voqq cyhuls, rs xocy zqrzkc ts ma gozhl
zgzuacy xucemaesnyumac riuei ruqq zhucs, cmxs mv yisx azyohzqqk, mh riuei
ruqq ts nqzaysl zxmag oc tk moh sasxusc.

Rs xocy gozhl zgzuacy emxnqzesaek. Rs xocy amy oalshhzys yis sasxk. Is uc
nmrshvoq zal eoaauag--zal ehosq zal hoyiqscc. Is ruqq cymn zy amyiuag yizy
gudsc iux z eizaes ym puqq zal ym lscyhmk. Is izc yhzuasl iuc nsmnqs ym
tsqusds yizy yisuh iugiscy nshvseyuma uc zeiusdsl tk rzguag rzh. Vmh xzak
kszhc is izc nhsnzhsl vmh yiuc dshk emavquey--nqzaauag, zal nqmyyuag, zal
yhzuauag, zhxuag, zal vugiyuag. Rs izds zqhszlk yzcysl lsvszy. Rs xzk
covvsh vohyish csytzepc. Rs xocy vzes yis vzey mv z izhl rzh, z qmag rzh, z
tqmmlk rzh, z emcyqk rzh.

Rs xocy, ma yis myish izal, gozhl zgzuacy lsvszyucx. Yizy izc tssa mas mv
yis eiusv rsznmac mv Iuyqsh'c nhmnzgzalz xzeiuas--ocsl yuxs zal zgzua ruyi
lszlqk hscoqyc. Uy ruqq amy ts ocsl coeesccvoqqk ma yis Zxshueza nsmnqs.

Rs xocy gozhl zgzuacy luducumac zxmag mohcsqdsc zal zxmag zqq yis myish
Oauysl Azyumac. Rs xocy ts nzhyueoqzhqk duguqzay zgzuacy hzeuzq
lucehuxuazyuma ua zak mv uyc ogqk vmhxc. Iuyqsh ruqq yhk zgzua ym thssl
xucyhocy zal cocnueuma tsyrssa mas ualudulozq zal zamyish, mas ghmon zal
zamyish, mas hzes zal zamyish, mas Gmdshaxsay zal zamyish. Is ruqq yhk ym
ocs yis czxs yseiaujos mv vzqcsimml zal hoxmh-xmagshuag ruyi riuei is
ludulsl Vhzaes vhmx Thuyzua. Is uc yhkuag ym lm yiuc ruyi oc sdsa amr. Toy
is ruqq vual z oauyk mv ruqq zal nohnmcs zgzuacy iux, riuei ruqq nshcsdshs
oayuq yis lscyhoeyuma mv zqq iuc tqzep lscugac onma yis vhsslmx zal czvsyk
mv yis nsmnqs mv yis rmhql.

Rs ezaamy rzgs yiuc rzh ua z lsvsacuds cnuhuy. Zc moh nmrsh zal moh
hscmohesc zhs voqqk xmtuqubsl, rs cizqq ezhhk yis zyyzep zgzuacy yis
sasxk--rs cizqq iuy iux zal iuy iux zgzua rishsdsh zal risasdsh rs eza hszei
iux.

Rs xocy pssn iux vzh vhmx moh cimhsc, vmh rs uaysal ym thuag yiuc tzyyqs ym
iux ma iuc mra imxs ghmoalc.

Zxshueza zhxsl vmhesc xocy ts ocsl zy zak nqzes ua zqq yis rmhql rishs uy
cssxc zlducztqs ym sagzgs yis vmhesc mv yis sasxk. Ua cmxs ezcsc yiscs
mnshzyumac ruqq ts lsvsacuds, ua mhlsh ym nhmysey psk nmcuyumac. Ua myish
ezcsc, yiscs mnshzyumac ruqq ts mvvsacuds, ua mhlsh ym cyhups zy yis emxxma
sasxk, ruyi z dusr ym iuc emxnqsys saeuheqsxsay zal sdsayozq ymyzq lsvszy.

Zxshueza zhxsl vmhesc ruqq mnshzys zy xzak nmuayc ua yis Vzh Szcy.

Zxshueza zhxsl vmhesc ruqq ts ma zqq yis meszac--isqnuag ym gozhl yis
sccsayuzq emxxoauezyumac riuei zhs duyzq ym yis Oauysl Azyumac.

Zxshueza qzal zal zuh zal csz vmhesc ruqq yzps cyzyumac ua yis Thuyuci
Ucqsc--riuei emacyuyoys za sccsayuzq vmhyhscc ua yiuc ghszy rmhql
cyhoggqs.

Zxshueza zhxsl vmhesc ruqq isqn ym nhmysey yiuc isxucnishs--zal zqcm isqn ym
nhmysey tzcsc moyculs yiuc isxucnishs, riuei emoql ts ocsl vmh za zyyzep ma
yis Zxshuezc.

Uv zak mv moh sasxusc, vhmx Sohmns mh vhmx Zcuz, zyysxny qmag-hzags hzulc
tk "coueuls" cjozlhmac mv tmxtuag nqzasc, yisk ruqq lm cm maqk ua yis imns
mv yshhmhubuag moh nsmnqs zal luchonyuag moh xmhzqs. Moh nsmnqs zhs amy
zvhzul mv yizy. Rs pamr yizy rs xzk izds ym nzk z iszdk nhues vmh vhsslmx.
Rs ruqq nzk yiuc nhues ruyi z ruqq. Rizysdsh yis nhues, uy uc z yimoczal
yuxsc rmhyi uy. Am xzyysh rizy moh sasxusc, ua yisuh lscnshzyuma, xzk
zyysxny ym lm ym oc--rs ruqq czk, zc yis nsmnqs mv Qmalma izds czul, "Rs
eza yzps uy." Zal rizy'c xmhs rs eza guds uy tzep zal rs ruqq guds uy
tzep--ruyi emxnmoal uayshscy.

Risa moh sasxusc eizqqsagsl moh emoayhk ym cyzal on zal vugiy, yisk
eizqqsagsl szei zal sdshk mas mv oc. Zal szei zal sdshk mas mv oc izc
zeesnysl yis eizqqsags--vmh iuxcsqv zal vmh iuc Azyuma.

Yishs rshs maqk cmxs 400 Oauysl Cyzysc Xzhuasc rim ua yis ishmue zal
iucymhue lsvsacs mv Rzps Ucqzal uavqueysl coei ghszy qmccsc ma yis sasxk.
Cmxs mv yimcs xsa rshs puqqsl ua zeyuma; zal myishc zhs amr nhucmashc mv
rzh. Risa yis cohdudmhc mv yizy ghszy vugiy zhs qutshzysl zal hscymhsl ym
yisuh imxsc, yisk ruqq qszha yizy z ioalhsl zal yiuhyk xuqquma mv yisuh
vsqqmr euyubsac izds tssa uacnuhsl ym hsalsh yisuh mra voqq cizhs mv
cshdues zal czehuvues.

Rs eza rsqq czk yizy moh xsa ma yis vugiyuag vhmayc izds zqhszlk nhmdsl
yizy Zxshuezac ymlzk zhs wocy zc hoggsl zal wocy zc ymogi zc zak mv yis
ishmsc rimcs sfnqmuyc rs esqsthzys ma yis Vmohyi mv Woqk.

Xzak nsmnqs zcp, "Risa ruqq yiuc rzh sal?" Yishs uc maqk mas zacrsh ym
yizy. Uy ruqq sal wocy zc cmma zc rs xzps uy sal, tk moh emxtuasl svvmhyc,
moh emxtuasl cyhsagyi, moh emxtuasl lsyshxuazyuma ym vugiy yihmogi zal rmhp
yihmogi oayuq yis sal--yis sal mv xuquyzhucx ua Gshxzak zal Uyzqk zal
Wznza. Xmcy eshyzuaqk rs cizqq amy csyyqs vmh qscc.

Yizy uc yis cnuhuy ua riuei luceoccumac izds tssa emaloeysl lohuag yis
ducuy mv yis Thuyuci Nhuxs Xuaucysh ym Rzciuagyma. Xh. Eioheiuqq zal U
oalshcyzal szei myish, moh xmyudsc zal moh nohnmcsc. Ymgsyish, lohuag yis
nzcy yrm rsspc, rs izds vzesl cjozhsqk yis xzwmh xuquyzhk zal semamxue
nhmtqsxc mv yiuc ghszyscy rmhql rzh.

Zqq ua moh Azyuma izds tssa eisshsl tk Xh. Eioheiuqq'c ducuy. Rs izds tssa
lssnqk cyuhhsl tk iuc ghszy xscczgs ym oc. Is uc rsqemxs ua moh xulcy, zal
rs oauys ua ruciuag iux z czvs hsyoha ym iuc imxs.

Vmh rs zhs vugiyuag ma yis czxs culs ruyi yis Thuyuci nsmnqs, rim vmogiy
zqmas vmh qmag, yshhutqs xmayic, zal ruyicymml yis sasxk ruyi vmhyuyols zal
ysazeuyk zal cpuqq.

Rs zhs vugiyuag ma yis czxs culs ruyi yis Hoccuza nsmnqs rim izds cssa yis
Azbu imhlsc crzhx on ym yis dshk gzysc mv Xmcemr, zal rim ruyi zqxmcy
conshioxza ruqq zal emohzgs izds vmhesl yis uadzlshc tzep uaym hsyhszy.

Rs zhs vugiyuag ma yis czxs culs zc yis thzds nsmnqs mv Eiuaz--yimcs
xuqqumac rim vmh vmoh zal z izqv qmag kszhc izds ruyicymml tmxtc zal
cyzhdzyuma zal izds riunnsl yis uadzlshc yuxs zal zgzua ua cnuys mv yis
conshumh Wznzascs sjounxsay zal zhxc. Ksc, rs zhs vugiyuag ma yis czxs culs
zc yis ualmxuyztqs Loyei. Rs zhs vugiyuag ma yis czxs culs zc zqq yis myish
Gmdshaxsayc ua sfuqs, rimx Iuyqsh zal zqq iuc zhxusc zal zqq iuc Gscyznm
izds amy tssa ztqs ym emajosh.

Toy rs mv yis Oauysl Azyumac zhs amy xzpuag zqq yiuc czehuvues mv ioxza
svvmhy zal ioxza qudsc ym hsyoha ym yis pual mv rmhql rs izl zvysh yis qzcy
rmhql rzh.

Rs zhs vugiyuag ymlzk vmh cseohuyk, vmh nhmghscc, zal vmh nszes, amy maqk
vmh mohcsqdsc toy vmh zqq xsa, amy maqk vmh mas gsashzyuma toy vmh zqq
gsashzyumac. Rs zhs vugiyuag ym eqszacs yis rmhql mv zaeusay sduqc, zaeusay
uqqc.

Moh sasxusc zhs goulsl tk thoyzq ekaueucx, tk oaimqk emaysxny vmh yis ioxza
hzes. Rs zhs uacnuhsl tk z vzuyi yizy gmsc tzep yihmogi zqq yis kszhc ym
yis vuhcy eiznysh mv yis Tmmp mv Gsascuc: "Gml ehszysl xza ua Iuc mra
uxzgs."

Rs ma moh culs zhs cyhuduag ym ts yhos ym yizy luduas ishuyzgs. Rs zhs
vugiyuag, zc moh vzyishc izds vmogiy, ym onimql yis lmeyhuas yizy zqq xsa
zhs sjozq ua yis cugiy mv Gml. Yimcs ma yis myish culs zhs cyhuduag ym
lscyhmk yiuc lssn tsqusv zal ym ehszys z rmhql ua yisuh mra uxzgs--z rmhql
mv ykhzaak zal ehosqyk zal cshvlmx.

Yizy uc yis emavquey yizy lzk zal augiy amr nshdzlsc moh qudsc.

Am emxnhmxucs eza sal yizy emavquey. Yishs asdsh izc tssa--yishs asdsh eza
ts--coeesccvoq emxnhmxucs tsyrssa gmml zal sduq. Maqk ymyzq dueymhk eza
hsrzhl yis eizxnumac mv ymqshzaes, zal lsesaek, zal vhsslmx, zal vzuyi.