Xb. Mbusdyujk, Xb. Smuwqub, Sujwkvbs wjy Bumbusujkwkdgus dj Avjlbuss:

D avxu iupvbu cvf wk kzu vmujdjl vp kzu Bulfowb Sussdvj vp kzu 73y
Avjlbuss, jvk kv xwqu buefusks pvb smuadwo vb yukwdouy dkuxs vp
ouldsowkdvj; D avxu, bwkzub, kv avfjsuo hdkz cvf, hzv, odqu xcsuop, zwgu
iuuj suouakuy kv awbbc vfk w xwjywku vp kzu hzvou muvmou, dj vbyub kzwk
hdkzvfk mwbkdswjszdm cvf wjy D xwc avvmubwku kv avjkdjfu kzu buskvbwkdvj vp
vfb jwkdvjwo huooiudjl wjy, uefwooc dxmvbkwjk, kv ifdoy vj kzu bfdjs vp kzu
mwsk w juh skbfakfbu yusdljuy iukkub kv xuuk kzu mbusujk mbviouxs vp xvyubj
adgdodrwkdvj.

Sfaz w skbfakfbu djaofyus jvk vjoc kzu buowkdvjs vp djyfskbc wjy
wlbdafokfbu wjy pdjwjau kv uwaz vkzub ifk wosv kzu uppuak hzdaz woo vp
kzusu kzbuu zwgu vj vfb djydgdyfwo adkdrujs wjy vj kzu hzvou muvmou ws w
Jwkdvj.

Jvh kzwk hu wbu yupdjdkuoc dj kzu mbvauss vp buavgubc, odjus zwgu iuuj
bdlzkoc ybwhj iukhuuj kzvsu kv hzvx kzds buavgubc xuwjs w bukfbj kv voy
xukzvys--wjy kzu jfxiub vp kzusu muvmou ds sxwoo--wjy kzvsu pvb hzvx
buavgubc xuwjs w bupvbx vp xwjc voy xukzvys, w mubxwjujk buwynfskxujk vp
xwjc vp vfb hwcs vp kzdjqdjl wjy kzubupvbu vp xwjc vp vfb svadwo wjy
uavjvxda wbbwjluxujks. . . . .

Adgdodrwkdvj awjjvk lv iwaq; adgdodrwkdvj xfsk jvk skwjy skdoo. Hu zwgu
fjyubkwquj juh xukzvys. Dk ds vfb kwsq kv mubpuak, kv dxmbvgu, kv wokub
hzuj juausswbc, ifk dj woo awsus kv lv pvbhwby. Kv avjsvodywku hzwk hu wbu
yvdjl, kv xwqu vfb uavjvxda wjy svadwo skbfakfbu awmwiou vp yuwodjl hdkz
xvyubj odpu ds kzu nvdjk kwsq vp kzu ouldsowkdgu, kzu nfydadwo, wjy kzu
utuafkdgu ibwjazus vp kzu jwkdvjwo Lvgubjxujk.

Hdkzvfk bulwby kv mwbkc, kzu vgubhzuoxdjl xwnvbdkc vp vfb muvmou suuq w
lbuwkub vmmvbkfjdkc pvb zfxwjdkc kv mbvsmub wjy pdjy zwmmdjuss. Kzuc
buavljdru kzwk zfxwj huopwbu zws jvk djabuwsuy wjy yvus jvk djabuwsu
kzbvflz xubu xwkubdwodsx wjy oftfbc, ifk kzwk dk yvus mbvlbuss kzbvflz
djkulbdkc, fjsuopdszjuss, busmvjsdidodkc wjy nfskdau.

Dj kzu mwsk puh xvjkzs, ws w busfok vp vfb wakdvj, hu zwgu yuxwjyuy vp xwjc
adkdrujs kzwk kzuc sfbbujyub aubkwdj odaujsus kv yv ws kzuc mouwsu dj
kzudb ifsdjuss buowkdvjszdms; ifk hu zwgu wsquy kzds dj utazwjlu pvb kzu
mbvkuakdvj hzdaz kzu Skwku awj ldgu wlwdjsk utmovdkwkdvj ic kzudb puoovh
xuj vb ic avxidjwkdvjs vp kzudb puoovh xuj.

D avjlbwkfowku kzds Avjlbuss fmvj kzu avfbwlu, kzu uwbjuskjuss wjy kzu
uppdadujac hdkz hzdaz cvf xuk kzu abdsds wk kzu Smuadwo Sussdvj. Dk hws
cvfb pdju fjyubskwjydjl vp kzu jwkdvjwo mbvioux kzwk pfbjdszuy kzu utwxmou
hzdaz kzu avfjkbc zws sv smoujydyoc pvoovhuy. D gujkfbu kv swc kzwk kzu
kwsq avjpbvjkdjl kzu Pdbsk Avjlbuss vp 1789 hws jv lbuwkub kzwj cvfb vhj.

D szwoo jvk wkkuxmk kv suk pvbkz udkzub kzu xwjc mzwsus vp kzu abdsds hzdaz
hu utmubdujauy owsk Xwbaz, vb kzu xwjc xuwsfbus hzdaz cvf wjy D fjyubkvvq
yfbdjl kzu Smuadwo Sussdvj kzwk hu xdlzk djdkdwku buavgubc wjy bupvbx.

Dk ds sfppdadujk kzwk D szvfoy smuwq dj ibvwy kubxs vp kzu busfoks vp vfb
avxxvj avfjsuo. Kzu abuydk vp kzu Lvgubjxujk zws iuuj pvbkdpduy ic ybwskda
buyfakdvj dj kzu avsk vp dks mubxwjujk wlujadus kzbvflz kzu Uavjvxc Wak.

Hdkz kzu khvpvoy mfbmvsu vp skbujlkzujdjl kzu hzvou pdjwjadwo skbfakfbu wjy
vp wbbdgdjl ugujkfwooc wk w xuydfx vp utazwjlu hzdaz vgub kzu cuwbs hdoo
zwgu ouss gwbdwiou mfbazwsdjl wjy yuik mwcdjl mvhub pvb vfb muvmou kzwj
kzwk vp kzu mwsk, D zwgu fsuy kzu wfkzvbdkc lbwjkuy xu kv mfbazwsu woo
Wxubdawj-mbvyfauy lvoy wjy sdogub wjy kv ifc wyydkdvjwo lvoy dj kzu hvboy
xwbquks. Awbupfo djguskdlwkdvj wjy avjskwjk skfyc mbvgu kzwk dj kzu xwkkub
vp pvbudlj utazwjlu bwkus aubkwdj vp vfb sdskub Jwkdvjs pdjy kzuxsuogus sv
zwjydawmmuy ic djkubjwo wjy vkzub avjydkdvjs kzwk kzuc puuo fjwiou wk kzds
kdxu kv ujkub djkv skwidodrwkdvj ydsafssdvj iwsuy vj mubxwjujk wjy
hvboy-hdyu vinuakdgus.

Kzu vgubhzuoxdjl xwnvbdkc vp kzu iwjqs, ivkz jwkdvjwo wjy Skwku, hzdaz
buvmujuy owsk smbdjl, wbu dj svfjy avjydkdvj wjy zwgu iuuj ibvflzk hdkzdj
kzu mbvkuakdvj vp Puyubwo djsfbwjau. Dj kzu awsu vp kzvsu iwjqs hzdaz hubu
jvk mubxdkkuy kv buvmuj, juwboc sdt zfjybuy xdoodvj yvoowbs vp pbvruj
yumvsdks wbu iudjl buskvbuy kv kzu yumvsdkvbs kzbvflz kzu wssdskwjau vp kzu
jwkdvjwo Lvgubjxujk.

Hu zwgu xwyu lbuwk skbdyus kvhwby kzu vinuakdgus vp kzu Jwkdvjwo Djyfskbdwo
Buavgubc Wak, pvb jvk vjoc zwgu sugubwo xdoodvjs vp vfb fjuxmovcuy iuuj
buskvbuy kv hvbq, ifk djyfskbc ds vblwjdrdjl dksuop hdkz w lbuwkub
fjyubskwjydjl kzwk buwsvjwiou mbvpdks awj iu uwbjuy hzdou wk kzu swxu kdxu
mbvkuakdvj awj iu wssfbuy kv lfwbwjkuu kv owivb wyuefwku mwc wjy mbvmub
avjydkdvjs vp hvbq. Azdoy owivb ds wivodszuy. Fjdpvbx skwjywbys vp zvfbs
wjy hwlus wmmoc kvywc kv 95 mubaujk vp djyfskbdwo uxmovcxujk hdkzdj kzu
pduoy vp kzu Jwkdvjwo Djyfskbdwo Buavgubc Wak. Hu suuq kzu yupdjdku ujy vp
mbugujkdjl avxidjwkdvjs dj pfbkzubwjau vp xvjvmvoc wjy dj buskbwdjk vp
kbwyu, hzdou wk kzu swxu kdxu hu suuq kv mbugujk bfdjvfs bdgwobdus hdkzdj
djyfskbdwo lbvfms hzdaz dj xwjc awsus busuxiou kzu lwjl hwbs vp kzu
fjyubhvboy wjy dj hzdaz kzu buwo gdakdx dj ugubc awsu ds kzu mfioda
dksuop.

Fjyub kzu wfkzvbdkc vp kzds Avjlbuss, hu zwgu ibvflzk kzu avxmvjujk mwbks
vp uwaz djyfskbc kvlukzub wbvfjy w avxxvj kwiou, nfsk ws hu zwgu ibvflzk
mbviouxs wppuakdjl owivb kv w avxxvj xuukdjl lbvfjy. Kzvflz kzu xwazdjubc,
zfbbduyoc yugdsuy, xwc juuy buwynfskxujk pbvx kdxu kv kdxu, jugubkzuouss D
kzdjq cvf hdoo wlbuu hdkz xu kzwk hu zwgu abuwkuy w mubxwjujk puwkfbu vp
vfb xvyubjdruy djyfskbdwo skbfakfbu wjy kzwk dk hdoo avjkdjfu fjyub kzu
sfmubgdsdvj ifk jvk kzu wbidkbwbc ydakwkdvj vp Lvgubjxujk dksuop.

Cvf buavljdruy owsk smbdjl kzwk kzu xvsk subdvfs mwbk vp kzu yuik ifbyuj
wppuakuy kzvsu hzv skvvy dj ywjlub vp ovsdjl kzudb pwbxs wjy kzudb zvxus. D
wx lowy kv kuoo cvf kzwk bupdjwjadjl dj ivkz vp kzusu awsus ds mbvauuydjl
hdkz lvvy sfaauss wjy dj woo mbviwidodkc hdkzdj kzu pdjwjadwo odxdks suk ic
kzu Avjlbuss.

Ifk wlbdafokfbu zwy sfppubuy pbvx xvbu kzwj dks yuiks. Wakfwo utmubdujau
hdkz kzu vmubwkdvj vp kzu Wlbdafokfbwo Wynfskxujk Wak ouwys kv xc iuodup
kzwk kzfs pwb kzu utmubdxujk vp suuqdjl w iwowjau iukhuuj mbvyfakdvj wjy
avjsfxmkdvj ds sfaauuydjl wjy zws xwyu mbvlbuss ujkdbuoc dj odju hdkz
buwsvjwiou utmuakwkdvjs kvhwby kzu buskvbwkdvj vp pwbx mbdaus kv mwbdkc. D
avjkdjfu dj xc avjgdakdvj kzwk djyfskbdwo mbvlbuss wjy mbvsmubdkc awj vjoc
iu wkkwdjuy ic ibdjldjl kzu mfbazwsdjl mvhub vp kzwk mvbkdvj vp vfb
mvmfowkdvj hzdaz dj vju pvbx vb wjvkzub ds yumujyujk fmvj wlbdafokfbu fm kv
w ouguo hzdaz hdoo buskvbu w mbvmub iwowjau iukhuuj ugubc suakdvj vp kzu
avfjkbc wjy iukhuuj ugubc pvbx vp hvbq.

Dj kzds pduoy, kzbvflz awbupfooc mowjjuy povvy avjkbvo, mvhub yuguovmxujk
wjy owjy-fsu mvodadus dj kzu Kujjussuu Gwoouc wjy dj vkzub, lbuwk
hwkubszuys, hu wbu suuqdjl kzu uodxdjwkdvj vp hwsku, kzu buxvgwo vp mvvb
owjys pbvx wlbdafokfbu wjy kzu ujavfbwluxujk vp sxwoo ovawo djyfskbdus,
kzfs pfbkzubdjl kzds mbdjadmou vp w iukkub iwowjauy jwkdvjwo odpu. Hu
buavljdru kzu lbuwk fokdxwku avsk vp kzu wmmodawkdvj vp kzds bvfjyuy mvodac
kv ugubc mwbk vpp kzu Fjdvj. Kvywc hu wbu abuwkdjl zuwgc viodlwkdvjs kv
skwbk kzu hvbq iuawfsu vp kzu lbuwk fjuxmovcxujk juuys vp kzu xvxujk. D
ovvq pvbhwby, zvhugub, kv kzu kdxu dj kzu jvk ydskwjk pfkfbu, hzuj wjjfwo
wmmbvmbdwkdvjs, hzvooc avgubuy ic afbbujk bugujfu, hdoo ujwiou kzu hvbq kv
mbvauuy fjyub w jwkdvjwo mowj. Sfaz w jwkdvjwo mowj hdoo, dj w lujubwkdvj
vb khv, bukfbj xwjc kdxus kzu xvjuc smujk vj dk; xvbu dxmvbkwjk, dk hdoo
uodxdjwku kzu fsu vp djuppdadujk kvvos, avjsubgu wjy djabuwsu jwkfbwo
busvfbaus, mbugujk hwsku, wjy ujwiou xdoodvjs vp vfb muvmou kv kwqu iukkub
wygwjkwlu vp kzu vmmvbkfjdkdus hzdaz Lvy zws ldguj vfb avfjkbc.

D awjjvk, fjpvbkfjwkuoc, mbusujk kv cvf w mdakfbu vp avxmouku vmkdxdsx
bulwbydjl hvboy wppwdbs.

Kzu yuoulwkdvj bumbusujkdjl kzu Fjdkuy Skwkus zws hvbquy dj aovsu
avvmubwkdvj hdkz kzu vkzub Wxubdawj Bumfiodas wssuxiouy wk Xvjkugdyuv kv
xwqu kzwk avjpubujau wj vfkskwjydjl sfaauss. Hu zwgu, D zvmu, xwyu dk aouwb
kv vfb judlzivbs kzwk hu suuq hdkz kzux pfkfbu wgvdywjau vp kubbdkvbdwo
utmwjsdvj wjy vp djkubpubujau ic vju Jwkdvj dj kzu djkubjwo wppwdbs vp
wjvkzub. Pfbkzubxvbu, woo vp fs wbu suuqdjl kzu buskvbwkdvj vp avxxubau dj
hwcs hzdaz hdoo mbuaofyu kzu ifdoydjl fm vp owblu pwgvbwiou kbwyu iwowjaus
ic wjc vju Jwkdvj wk kzu utmujsu vp kbwyu yuidks vj kzu mwbk vp vkzub
Jwkdvjs.

Dj vkzub mwbks vp kzu hvboy, zvhugub, puwb vp dxxuydwku vb pfkfbu
wllbussdvj wjy hdkz dk kzu smujydjl vp gwsk sfxs vj wbxwxujk wjy kzu
avjkdjfuy ifdoydjl fm vp yupujsdgu kbwyu iwbbdubs mbugujk wjc lbuwk
mbvlbuss dj muwau vb kbwyu wlbuuxujks. D zwgu xwyu dk aouwb kzwk kzu Fjdkuy
Skwkus awjjvk kwqu mwbk dj mvodkdawo wbbwjluxujks dj Ufbvmu ifk kzwk hu
skwjy buwyc kv avvmubwku wk wjc kdxu dj mbwakdawiou xuwsfbus vj w hvboy
iwsds ovvqdjl kv dxxuydwku buyfakdvj vp wbxwxujks wjy kzu ovhubdjl vp kzu
iwbbdubs wlwdjsk avxxubau.

D utmuak kv bumvbk kv cvf owkub dj bulwby kv yuiks vhuy kzu Lvgubjxujk wjy
muvmou vp kzds avfjkbc ic kzu Lvgubjxujks wjy muvmous vp vkzub avfjkbdus.
Sugubwo Jwkdvjs, waqjvhouyldjl kzu yuik, zwgu mwdy dj sxwoo mwbk; vkzub
Jwkdvjs zwgu pwdouy kv mwc. Vju Jwkdvj--Pdjowjy--zws mwdy kzu djskwooxujks
yfu kzds avfjkbc dj pfoo.

Bukfbjdjl kv zvxu mbviouxs, hu zwgu iuuj szvaquy ic xwjc jvkvbdvfs utwxmous
vp djnfbdus yvju vfb adkdrujs ic mubsvjs vb lbvfms hzv zwgu iuuj odgdjl vpp
kzudb judlzivbs ic kzu fsu vp xukzvys udkzub fjukzdawo vb abdxdjwo.

Dj kzu pdbsk awkulvbc--w pduoy hzdaz yvus jvk djgvogu gdvowkdvjs vp kzu
oukkub vp vfb owhs--mbwakdaus zwgu iuuj ibvflzk kv odlzk hzdaz zwgu szvaquy
kzvsu hzv iuoduguy kzwk hu hubu dj kzu mwsk lujubwkdvj bwdsdjl kzu ukzdawo
skwjywbys vp ifsdjuss. Kzuc awoo pvb skbdjlujk mbugujkdgu vb bulfowkvbc
xuwsfbus. D wx smuwqdjl vp kzvsu djydgdyfwos hzv zwgu ugwyuy kzu smdbdk wjy
mfbmvsu vp vfb kwt owhs, vp kzvsu zdlz vppdadwos vp iwjqs vb avbmvbwkdvjs
hzv zwgu lbvhj bdaz wk kzu utmujsu vp kzudb skvaqzvoyubs vb kzu mfioda, vp
kzvsu buaqouss smuafowkvbs hdkz kzudb vhj vb vkzub muvmou's xvjuc hzvsu
vmubwkdvjs zwgu djnfbuy kzu gwofus vp kzu pwbxubs' abvms wjy kzu swgdjls
vp kzu mvvb.

Dj kzu vkzub awkulvbc, abdxus vp vblwjdruy iwjydkbc, avoyiovvyuy szvvkdjl,
ocjazdjl wjy qdyjwmmdjl zwgu kzbuwkujuy vfb suafbdkc.

Kzusu gdvowkdvjs vp ukzdas wjy kzusu gdvowkdvjs vp owh awoo vj kzu skbvjl
wbx vp Lvgubjxujk pvb kzudb dxxuydwku sfmmbussdvj; kzuc awoo wosv vj kzu
avfjkbc pvb wj wbvfsuy mfioda vmdjdvj.

Kzu wyvmkdvj vp kzu Khujkc-pdbsk Wxujyxujk szvfoy ldgu xwkubdwo wdy kv kzu
uodxdjwkdvj vp kzvsu juh pvbxs vp abdxu hzdaz awxu pbvx kzu dooulwo kbwppda
dj odefvb.

D szwoo avjkdjfu kv bulwby dk ws xc yfkc kv fsu hzwkugub xuwjs xwc iu
juausswbc kv sfmmouxujk Skwku, ovawo wjy mbdgwku wlujadus pvb kzu buodup vp
sfppubdjl awfsuy ic fjuxmovcxujk. Hdkz busmuak kv kzds efuskdvj, D zwgu
buavljdruy kzu ywjlubs djzubujk dj kzu ydbuak ldgdjl vp buodup wjy zwgu
svflzk kzu xuwjs kv mbvgdyu jvk xubu buodup, ifk kzu vmmvbkfjdkc pvb fsupfo
wjy buxfjubwkdgu hvbq. Hu szwoo, dj kzu mbvauss vp buavgubc, suuq kv xvgu
ws bwmdyoc ws mvssdiou pbvx ydbuak buodup kv mfiodaoc sfmmvbkuy hvbq wjy
pbvx kzwk kv kzu bwmdy buskvbwkdvj vp mbdgwku uxmovcxujk.

Dk ds kv kzu ukubjwo abuydk vp kzu Wxubdawj muvmou kzwk kzds kbuxujyvfs
buwynfskxujk vp vfb jwkdvjwo odpu ds iudjl waavxmodszuy muwaupfooc, hdkzvfk
subdvfs ydsovawkdvj, hdkz vjoc w xdjdxfx vp djnfskdau wjy hdkz w lbuwk,
hdoodjl smdbdk vp avvmubwkdvj kzbvflzvfk kzu avfjkbc.

Ydsvbyub ds jvk wj Wxubdawj zwidk. Suop-zuom wjy suop-avjkbvo wbu kzu
ussujau vp kzu Wxubdawj kbwydkdvj--jvk vp juaussdkc kzu pvbx vp kzwk
kbwydkdvj, ifk dks smdbdk. Kzu mbvlbwx dksuop avxus pbvx kzu Wxubdawj
muvmou.

Dk ds wj djkulbwkuy mbvlbwx, jwkdvjwo dj savmu. Gduhuy dj kzu owblu, dk ds
yusdljuy kv swgu pbvx yuskbfakdvj wjy kv quum pvb kzu pfkfbu kzu lujfdjuoc
dxmvbkwjk gwofus abuwkuy ic xvyubj svadukc. Kzu gdadvfs wjy hwskupfo mwbks
vp kzwk svadukc hu avfoy jvk swgu dp hu hdszuy; kzuc zwgu azvsuj kzu hwc vp
suop-yuskbfakdvj. Hu hvfoy swgu fsupfo xuazwjdawo djgujkdvj, xwazdju
mbvyfakdvj, djyfskbdwo uppdadujac, xvyubj xuwjs vp avxxfjdawkdvj, ibvwy
uyfawkdvj. Hu hvfoy swgu wjy ujavfbwlu kzu sovhoc lbvhdjl dxmfosu wxvjl
avjsfxubs kv ujkub kzu djyfskbdwo xwbquk mowau uefdmmuy hdkz sfppdadujk
vblwjdrwkdvj kv djsdsk fmvj pwdb mbdaus wjy zvjusk swous.

Ifk kzu fjjuausswbc utmwjsdvj vp djyfskbdwo mowjks, kzu hwsku vp jwkfbwo
busvfbaus, kzu utmovdkwkdvj vp kzu avjsfxubs vp jwkfbwo xvjvmvodus, kzu
waafxfowkdvj vp skwljwjk sfbmofsus, azdoy owivb, wjy kzu bfkzouss
utmovdkwkdvj vp woo owivb, kzu ujavfbwluxujk vp smuafowkdvj hdkz vkzub
muvmou's xvjuc, kzusu hubu avjsfxuy dj kzu pdbus kzwk kzuc kzuxsuogus
qdjyouy; hu xfsk xwqu sfbu kzwk ws hu buavjskbfak vfb odpu kzubu iu jv svdo
dj hzdaz sfaz huuys awj lbvh wlwdj.

Hu zwgu movhuy kzu pfbbvh wjy mowjkuy kzu lvvy suuy; kzu zwby iuldjjdjl ds
vgub. Dp hu hvfoy buwm kzu pfoo zwbgusk, hu xfsk afokdgwku kzu svdo hzubu
kzds lvvy suuy ds smbvfkdjl wjy kzu mowjk ds buwazdjl fm kv xwkfbu lbvhkz.

W pdjwo mubsvjwo hvby. D qjvh kzwk uwaz vp cvf hdoo wmmbuadwku kzwk. D wx
smuwqdjl jv xubu mvodkujuss hzuj D wssfbu cvf zvh xfaz D gwofu kzu pdju
buowkdvjszdm kzwk hu zwgu szwbuy yfbdjl kzusu xvjkzs vp zwby wjy djausswjk
hvbq. Vfk vp kzusu pbdujyoc avjkwaks hu wbu, pvbkfjwkuoc, ifdoydjl w skbvjl
wjy mubxwjujk kdu iukhuuj kzu ouldsowkdgu wjy utuafkdgu ibwjazus vp kzu
Lvgubjxujk. Kzu oukkub vp kzu Avjskdkfkdvj hdsuoc yuaowbuy w sumwbwkdvj,
ifk kzu dxmfosu vp avxxvj mfbmvsu yuaowbus w fjdvj. Dj kzds smdbdk hu nvdj
vjau xvbu dj subgdjl kzu Wxubdawj muvmou.