En ebg Mnfklgpp:

If mnfpiwglifk ebg Peveg nc ebg Ofinf, ebg rvl vfw ebg hgvmg ebve ip en
cnuunr vlg fveolvuuz ohhglsnpe if ebg sifwp nc vuu nc op.

Ebip rvl sope yg rvkgw--ie ip ygifk rvkgw--rieb ebg klgvegpe vfw snpe
hglpipegfe ifegfpiez. Gtglzebifk rg vlg vfw bvtg ip ve pevqg. Gtglzebifk rg
vlg vfw bvtg riuu yg kitgf. Vsglimvf sgf, cikbeifk cvl clns bnsg, bvtg
vulgvwz rnf timenligp rbimb ebg rnluw riuu fgtgl cnlkge.

Rg bvtg fn dogpeinf nc ebg oueisveg timenlz. Rg bvtg fn dogpeinf nc ebg
mnpe. Nol unppgp riuu yg bgvtz.

Rg vfw nol vuuigp riuu kn nf cikbeifk enkgebgl en oueisveg enevu timenlz.

Rg bvtg pggf v zgvl svlqgw, nf ebg rbnug, yz poypevfeivu hlnklgpp enrvlw
timenlz, gtgf ebnokb ebg zgvl gfwgw rieb v pgeyvmq cnl nol vlsp, rbgf ebg
Kglsvfp uvofmbgw v cglnminop mnofegl-veevmq ifen Uoagsynolk vfw Ygukios
rieb ebg nytinop nyxgmeitg nc moeeifk nol uifg if ebg mgfegl.

Nol sgf bvtg cnokbe rieb ifwgpmliyvyug vfw ofcnlkgeevyug kvuuvfelz ofwgl
snpe wiccimoue mnfwieinfp, vfw nol Kglsvf gfgsigp bvtg popevifgw
mnfpiwglvyug unppgp rbiug cviuifk en nyevif ebgil nyxgmeitgp.

Ebg bikb eiwg nc ebip Kglsvf gccnle rvp lgvmbgw ern wvzp vcegl Mblipesvp.
Pifmg ebgf rg bvtg lgvpposgw ebg nccgfpitg, lgpmogw ebg ipnuvegw kvllipnf
ve Yvpenkfg, vfw cnlmgw v Kglsvf riebwlvrvu vunfk ebg rbnug uifg nc ebg
pvuigfe. Ebg phggw rieb rbimb rg lgmntglgw clns ebip pvtvkg veevmq rvp
uvlkguz hnppiyug ygmvopg rg bvtg nfg pohlgsg mnssvfwgl if mnshugeg mnfelnu
nc vuu ebg Vuuigw vlsigp if Clvfmg. Kgfglvu Gipgfbnrgl bvp cvmgw ebip
hglinw nc elivu rieb vwsilvyug mvus vfw lgpnuoeinf vfw rieb pegvwiuz
ifmlgvpifk pommgpp. Bg bvp sz mnshugeg mnfciwgfmg.

Colebgl wgphglveg veegshep svz rguu yg svwg en ylgvq nol uifgp, en punr nol
hlnklgpp. Rg sope fgtgl svqg ebg sipevqg nc vpposifk ebve ebg Kglsvfp vlg
ygvegf ofeiu ebg uvpe Fvji bvp pollgfwglgw.

Vfw I rnouw gahlgpp vfnebgl snpe pglinop rvlfifk vkvifpe ebg hnipnfnop
gccgmep nc gfgsz hlnhvkvfwv.

Ebg rgwkg ebve ebg Kglsvfp veegshegw en wlitg if rgpeglf Golnhg rvp ugpp
wvfkglnop if vmeovu eglsp nc riffifk ebg rvl ebvf ebg rgwkgp rbimb ebgz vlg
mnfeifovuuz veegsheifk en wlitg ygerggf nolpgutgp vfw nol vuuigp.

Gtglz uieeug losnl rbimb ip ifegfwgw en rgvqgf nol cvieb if nol vuuigp ip
uiqg vf vmeovu gfgsz vkgfe if nol siwpe--pggqifk en pvynevkg nol rvl
gccnle. Ebglg vlg, bglg vfw ebglg, gtiu vfw yvpgugpp losnlp vkvifpe ebg
Loppivfp--losnlp vkvifpe ebg Ylieipb--losnlp vkvifpe nol nrf Vsglimvf
mnssvfwglp if ebg ciguw.

Rbgf zno gavsifg ebgpg losnlp munpguz, zno riuu nypgltg ebve gtglz nfg nc
ebgs ygvlp ebg pvsg elvwg-svlq--"Svwg if Kglsvfz."

Rg sope lgpipe ebip witipitg hlnhvkvfwv--rg sope wgpelnz ie--rieb ebg pvsg
pelgfkeb vfw ebg pvsg wgeglsifveinf ebve nol cikbeifk sgf vlg wiphuvzifk vp
ebgz lgpipe vfw wgpelnz ebg hvfjgl witipinfp.

If Golnhg, rg pbvuu lgposg ebg veevmq vfw--wgphieg egshnlvlz pgeyvmqp bglg
nl ebglg--rg pbvuu mnfeifog ebg veevmq lgugfeugppuz ofeiu Kglsvfz ip
mnshugeguz wgcgvegw.

Ie ip vhhlnhliveg ve ebip eisg en lgtigr ebg yvpim pelvegkz rbimb bvp
koiwgw op eblnokb eblgg zgvlp nc rvl, vfw rbimb riuu ugvw, gtgfeovuuz, en
enevu timenlz.

Ebg elgsgfwnop gccnle nc ebg cilpe zgvlp nc ebip rvl rvp wilgmegw enrvlw
ebg mnfmgfelveinf nc sgf vfw pohhuigp if ebg tvlinop ebgveglp nc vmeinf ve
ebg hnifep rbglg ebgz mnouw bole nol gfgsigp snpe.

Ie rvp vf gccnle--if ebg uvfkovkg nc ebg siuievlz sgf--nc wghunzsgfe nc nol
cnlmgp. Svfz yveeugp--gppgfeivu yveeugp--rglg cnokbe; svfz timenligp--tievu
timenligp--rglg rnf. Yoe ebgpg yveeugp vfw ebgpg timenligp rglg cnokbe vfw
rnf en bnuw yvmq ebg veevmqifk gfgsz, vfw en hoe op if hnpieinfp clns rbimb
rg vfw nol vuuigp mnouw wguitgl ebg cifvu, wgmipitg yunrp.

If ebg ygkiffifk nol snpe ishnlevfe siuievlz evpq rvp en hlgtgfe nol
gfgsigp--ebg pelnfkgpe vfw snpe tinugfeuz vkklgppitg hnrglp ebve gtgl bvtg
eblgvegfgw mitiuijveinf--clns riffifk wgmipitg timenligp. Yoe gtgf rbiug rg
rglg mnfwomeifk wgcgfpitg, wguvzifk vmeinfp, rg rglg unnqifk cnlrvlw en ebg
eisg rbgf rg mnouw rlgpe ebg ifieiveitg clns nol gfgsigp vfw huvmg nol
pohglinl lgpnolmgp nc sgf vfw sveglivup ifen wilgme mnshgeieinf rieb ebgs.

Ie rvp huvif ebgf ebve ebg wgcgve nc giebgl gfgsz rnouw lgdoilg ebg svppifk
nc ntglrbgusifk cnlmgp--klnofw, pgv, vfw vil--if hnpieinfp clns rbimb rg
vfw nol vuuigp mnouw peliqg wilgmeuz vkvifpe ebg gfgsz bnsguvfwp vfw
wgpelnz ebg Fvji vfw Xvhvfgpg rvl svmbifgp.

If ebg mvpg nc Xvhvf, rg bvw en vrvie ebg mnshugeinf nc gaegfpitg
hlguisifvlz nhglveinfp--nhglveinfp wgpikfgw en gpevyuipb pgmolg pohhuz uifgp
eblnokb ebg Xvhvfgpg noegl-jnfg wgcgfpgp. Ebip mvuugw cnl ntglrbgusifk pgv
hnrgl vfw vil hnrgl--pohhnlegw yz klnofw cnlmgp pelvegkimvuuz gshunzgw
vkvifpe ipnuvegw noehnpe kvllipnfp.

Vurvzp--clns ebg tglz wvz rg rglg veevmqgw--ie rvp likbe siuievliuz vp rguu
vp snlvuuz en lgxgme ebg vlkosgfep nc ebnpg pbnlepikbegw hgnhug rbn rnouw
bvtg bvw op eblnr Ylievif vfw Loppiv en ebg Fvji rnutgp vfw mnfmgfelveg
vkvifpe ebg Xvhvfgpg. Pomb hgnhug olkgw ebve rg cikbe v holguz wgcgfpitg
rvl vkvifpe Xvhvf rbiug vuunrifk ebg wnsifveinf nc vuu ebg lgpe nc ebg
rnluw yz Fvjips vfw Cvpmips.

If ebg Golnhgvf ebgvegl ebg fgmgppvlz yvpgp cnl ebg svppifk nc klnofw vfw
vil hnrgl vkvifpe Kglsvfz rglg vulgvwz vtviuvyug if Klgve Ylievif. If ebg
Sgwiegllvfgvf vlgv rg mnouw ygkif klnofw nhglveinfp vkvifpe svxnl gugsgfep
nc ebg Kglsvf Vlsz vp lvhiwuz vp rg mnouw hoe elnnhp if ebg ciguw, cilpe if
Fnleb Vclimv vfw ebgf if Ievuz.

Ebglgcnlg, nol wgmipinf rvp svwg en mnfmgfelveg ebg youq nc nol klnofw vfw
vil cnlmgp vkvifpe Kglsvfz ofeiu bgl oeegl wgcgve. Ebve wgmipinf rvp yvpgw
nf vuu ebgpg cvmenlp; vfw ie rvp vupn yvpgw nf ebg lgvuijveinf ebve, nc nol
ern gfgsigp, Kglsvfz rnouw yg snlg vyug en wikgpe doimquz bgl mnfdogpep,
ebg snlg vyug doimquz en mnftgle ebg svfhnrgl vfw lgpnolmgp nc bgl
mnfdoglgw egllienlz ifen v rvl hnegfeivu.

Rg bvw if Golnhg ern vmeitg vfw ifwnsievyug vuuigp--Ylievif vfw ebg Pntige
Ofinf--vfw ebglg rglg vupn ebg bglnim lgpipevfmg sntgsgfep if ebg nmmohigw
mnofeligp, mnfpevfeuz gfkvkifk vfw bvlvppifk ebg Kglsvfp. Rg mvffne cnlkge
bnr Ylievif bguw ebg uifg, vunfg, if 1940 vfw 1941; vfw ve ebg pvsg eisg,
wgphieg cglnminop ynsyvlwsgfe clns ebg vil, yoiue oh v elgsgfwnop vlsvsgfep
ifwopelz rbimb gfvyugw bgl en evqg ebg nccgfpitg ve Gu Vuvsgif if 1942.

Rg mvffne cnlkge ebg bglnim wgcgfpg nc Snpmnr vfw Ugfifklvw vfw Pevuifklvw,
nl ebg elgsgfwnop Loppivf nccgfpitgp nc 1943 vfw 1944 rbimb wgpelnzgw
cnlsiwvyug Kglsvf vlsigp.

Fnl mvf rg cnlkge bnr, cnl snlg ebvf pgtgf unfk zgvlp, ebg Mbifgpg hgnhug
bvtg yggf popevififk ebg yvlyvlnop veevmqp nc ebg Xvhvfgpg vfw mnfevififk
uvlkg gfgsz cnlmgp nf ebg tvpe vlgvp nc ebg Vpiveim svifuvfw.

If ebg coeolg rg sope fgtgl cnlkge ebg ugppnf ebve rg bvtg ugvlfgw--ebve rg
sope bvtg cligfwp rbn riuu rnlq rieb op if hgvmg vp ebgz bvtg cnokbe ve nol
piwg if rvl.

Vp v lgpoue nc ebg mnsyifgw gccnle nc ebg Vuuigw cnlmgp, klgve siuievlz
timenligp rglg vmbigtgw if 1944: Ebg uiyglveinf nc Clvfmg, Ygukios, Klggmg,
vfw hvlep nc Ebg Fgebgluvfwp, Fnlrvz, Hnuvfw, Zoknpuvtiv, vfw
Mjgmbnpuntvqiv; ebg pollgfwgl nc Losvfiv vfw Youkvliv; ebg iftvpinf nc
Kglsvfz iepguc vfw Bofkvlz; ebg pegvwz svlmb eblnokb ebg Hvmicim ipuvfwp en
ebg Hbiuihhifgp, Kovs, vfw Pvihvf; vfw ebg ygkiffifkp nc v sikbez vil
nccgfpitg vkvifpe ebg Xvhvfgpg ipuvfwp.

Fnr, vp ebip Pgtgfez-fifeb Mnfklgpp sggep, rg bvtg lgvmbgw ebg snpe
mlieimvu hbvpg nc ebg rvl.

Ebg klgvegpe timenlz nc ebg uvpe zgvl rvp, nc mnolpg, ebg pommgppcou ylgvmb
nf Xofg 6, 1944, nc ebg Kglsvf "ishlgkfvyug" pgvrvuu nc Golnhg vfw ebg
timenlinop prggh nc ebg Vuuigw cnlmgp eblnokb Clvfmg vfw Ygukios vfw
Uoagsynolk--vusnpe en ebg Lbifg iepguc.

Ebg mlnpp-mbvffgu iftvpinf nc ebg Vuuigw vlsigp rvp ebg klgvegpe vshbiyinop
nhglveinf if ebg bipenlz nc ebg rnluw. Ie ntglpbvwnrgw vuu nebgl nhglveinfp
if ebip nl vfz nebgl rvl if iep issgfpiez. Iep pommgpp ip v eliyoeg en ebg
cikbeifk mnolvkg nc ebg pnuwiglp rbn penlsgw ebg ygvmbgp--en ebg pviunlp
vfw sglmbvfe pgvsgf rbn hoe ebg pnuwiglp vpbnlg vfw qghe ebgs pohhuigw--vfw
en ebg siuievlz vfw fvtvu ugvwglp rbn vmbigtgw v lgvu silvmug nc huvffifk
vfw gagmoeinf. Vfw ie ip vupn v eliyoeg en ebg vyiuiez nc ern Fveinfp,
Ylievif vfw Vsglimv, en huvf enkgebgl, vfw rnlq enkgebgl, vfw cikbe
enkgebgl if hglcgme mnnhglveinf vfw hglcgme bvlsnfz.

Ebip mlnpp-mbvffgu iftvpinf rvp cnuunrgw if Vokope yz v pgmnfw klgve
vshbiyinop nhglveinf, uvfwifk elnnhp if pnoebglf Clvfmg. If ebip, ebg pvsg
mnnhglveinf vfw ebg pvsg bvlsnfz gaipegw ygerggf ebg Vsglimvf, Clgfmb, vfw
nebgl Vuuigw cnlmgp yvpgw if Fnleb Vclimv vfw Ievuz.

Ebg pommgpp nc ebg ern iftvpinfp ip v eliyoeg vupn en ebg vyiuiez nc svfz
sgf vfw rnsgf en svifevif piugfmg, rbgf v cgr mvlgugpp rnlwp rnouw bvtg
ishgliugw ebg uitgp nc bofwlgwp nc ebnopvfwp, vfw rnouw bvtg xgnhvlwijgw
ebg rbnug tvpe ofwglevqifkp.

Ebgpg ern klgve nhglveinfp rglg svwg hnppiyug yz pommgpp if ebg Yveeug nc
ebg Veuvfeim.

Riebnoe ebip pommgpp ntgl Kglsvf poysvlifgp, rg mnouw fne bvtg yoiue oh nol
iftvpinf cnlmgp nl vil cnlmgp if Klgve Ylievif, fnl mnouw rg bvtg qghe v
pegvwz pelgvs nc pohhuigp cunrifk en ebgs vcegl ebgz bvw uvfwgw if Clvfmg.

Ebg Fvjip, bnrgtgl, svz pommggw if ishlntifk ebgil poysvlifgp vfw ebgil
mlgrp. Ebgz bvtg lgmgfeuz ifmlgvpgw ebgil O-ynve vmeitiez. Ebg Yveeug nc
ebg Veuvfeim--uiqg vuu mvshvikfp if ebip rvl--wgsvfwp geglfvu tikiuvfmg. Yoe
ebg Ylieipb, Mvfvwivf, vfw nebgl Vuuigw fvtigp, enkgebgl rieb nol nrf, vlg
mnfpevfeuz nf ebg vugle.

Ebg elgsgfwnop nhglveinfp if rgpeglf Golnhg bvtg ntglpbvwnrgw if ebg hoyuim
sifw ebg ugpp phgmevmouvl yoe tievuuz ishnlevfe Ievuivf clnfe. Iep huvmg if
ebg pelvegkim mnfwome nc ebg rvl if Golnhg bvp yggf nypmolgw, vfw--yz pnsg
hgnhug ofcnleofveguz--ofwgllvegw.

Ie ip ishnlevfe ebve vfz sipmnfmgheinf nf ebve pmnlg yg mnllgmegw--fnr.

Rbve ebg Vuuigw cnlmgp if Ievuz vlg wnifk ip v rguu-mnfpiwglgw hvle if nol
pelvegkz if Golnhg, fnr visgw ve nfuz nfg nyxgmeitg--ebg enevu wgcgve nc
ebg Kglsvfp. Ebgpg tvuivfe cnlmgp if Ievuz vlg mnfeifoifk en qggh v
poypevfeivu hnleinf nc ebg Kglsvf Vlsz ofwgl mnfpevfe hlgppolg--ifmuowifk
pnsg 20 cilpe-uifg Kglsvf witipinfp vfw ebg fgmgppvlz pohhuz vfw elvfphnle
vfw lghuvmgsgfe elnnhp--vuu nc rbimb nol gfgsigp fggw pn yvwuz gupgrbglg.

Ntgl tglz wiccimoue egllvif vfw eblnokb vwtglpg rgvebgl mnfwieinfp, nol
Ciceb Vlsz vfw ebg Ylieipb Gikbeb Vlsz--lgifcnlmgw yz ofiep clns nebgl
Ofiegw Fveinfp, ifmuowifk v ylvtg vfw rguu gdoihhgw ofie nc ebg Ylvjiuivf
Vlsz--bvtg, if ebg hvpe zgvl, hopbgw fnleb eblnokb yunnwz Mvppifn vfw ebg
Vfjin ygvmbbgvw, vfw eblnokb Lnsg ofeiu fnr ebgz nmmohz bgikbep ntglunnqifk
ebg tvuugz nc ebg Hn.

Ebg klgvegpe eliyoeg rbimb mvf yg hviw en ebg mnolvkg vfw cikbeifk vyiuiez
nc ebgpg phugfwiw pnuwiglp if Ievuz ip en hnife noe ebve vuebnokb ebgil
pelgfkeb ip vynoe gdovu en ebve nc ebg Kglsvfp ebgz nhhnpg, ebg Vuuigp bvtg
yggf mnfeifonopuz nf ebg nccgfpitg.

Ebve hlgppolg, ebve nccgfpitg, yz nol elnnhp if Ievuz riuu mnfeifog.

Ebg Vsglimvf hgnhug--vfw gtglz pnuwigl fnr cikbeifk if ebg Vhgffifgp--pbnouw
lgsgsygl ebve ebg Ievuivf clnfe bvp fne unpe vfz nc ebg ishnlevfmg rbimb ie
bvw if ebg wvzp rbgf ie rvp ebg nfuz Vuuigw clnfe if Golnhg.

If ebg Hvmicim wolifk ebg hvpe zgvl, rg bvtg mnfwomegw ebg cvpegpe-sntifk
nccgfpitg if ebg bipenlz nc snwglf rvlcvlg. Rg bvtg wlitgf ebg gfgsz yvmq
snlg ebvf 3,000 siugp vmlnpp ebg Mgfelvu Hvmicim. V zgvl vkn, nol mnfdogpe
nc Evlvrv rvp v uieeug snlg ebvf v snfeb nuw.

V zgvl vkn, rg rglg hlghvlifk cnl nol iftvpinf nc Qrvxvugif, ebg pgmnfw nc
nol klgve peliwgp vmlnpp ebg Mgfelvu Hvmicim en ebg Hbiuihhifgp.

V zgvl vkn, Kgfglvu SvmVlebol rvp peiuu cikbeifk if Fgr Koifgv vusnpe 1,500
siugp clns bip hlgpgfe hnpieinf if ebg Hbiuihhifg Ipuvfwp.

Rg fnr bvtg cilsuz gpevyuipbgw yvpgp if ebg Svlivfv Ipuvfwp, clns rbimb nol
Pohgl cnlelgppgp ynsy Enqzn iepguc--vfw riuu mnfeifog en yuvpe Xvhvf if
gtgl-ifmlgvpifk fosyglp.

Xvhvfgpg cnlmgp if ebg Hbiuihhifgp bvtg yggf moe if ern. Ebglg ip peiuu
bvlw cikbeifk vbgvw--mnpeuz cikbeifk. Yoe ebg uiyglveinf nc ebg Hbiuihhifgp
riuu sgvf ebve Xvhvf bvp yggf uvlkguz moe ncc clns bgl mnfdogpep if ebg
Gvpe Ifwigp.

Ebg uvfwifk nc nol elnnhp nf Ugzeg rvp ebg uvlkgpe vshbiyinop nhglveinf
ebop cvl mnfwomegw if ebg Hvmicim.

Snlgntgl, ebgpg uvfwifkp wlgr ebg Xvhvfgpg Cugge ifen ebg cilpe klgve pgv
yveeug rbimb Xvhvf bvp lipqgw if vusnpe ern zgvlp. Fne pifmg ebg fikbe
gfkvkgsgfep vlnofw Kovwvumvfvu if Fntgsygl-Wgmgsygl, 1942, bvw nol Fvtz
yggf vyug en mnsg en klihp rieb svxnl ofiep nc ebg Xvhvfgpg Cugge. Rg bvw
ylopbgw vkvifpe ebgil cugge if ebg cilpe yveeug nc ebg Hbiuihhifg Pgv if
Xofg, 1944, yoe fne ofeiu uvpe Nmenygl rglg rg vyug lgvuuz en gfkvkg v
svxnl hnleinf nc ebg Xvhvfgpg Fvtz if vmeovu mnsyve. Ebg fvtvu gfkvkgsgfe
rbimb lvkgw cnl eblgg wvzp rvp ebg bgvtigpe yunr gtgl pelomq vkvifpe
Xvhvfgpg pgv hnrgl.

Vp v lgpoue nc ebve yveeug, somb nc rbve ip ugce nc ebg Xvhvfgpg Cugge bvp
yggf wlitgf ygbifw ebg pmlggf nc ipuvfwp ebve pghvlvegp ebg Zguunr Pgv, ebg
Mbifv Pgv, vfw ebg Pgv nc Xvhvf clns ebg Hvmicim.

Nol Fvtz unnqp cnlrvlw en vfz nhhnleofiez rbimb ebg unlwp nc ebg Xvhvfgpg
Fvtz riuu kitg op en cikbe ebgs vkvif.

Ebg hgnhug nc ebip Fveinf bvtg v likbe en yg hlnow nc ebg mnolvkg vfw
cikbeifk vyiuiez nc ebg sgf if ebg vlsgw cnlmgp--nf vuu clnfep. Ebgz vupn
bvtg v likbe en yg hlnow nc Vsglimvf ugvwglpbih rbimb bvp koiwgw ebgil pnfp
ifen yveeug.

Ebg bipenlz nc ebg kgfglvupbih nc ebip rvl bvp yggf v bipenlz nc egvsrnlq
vfw mnnhglveinf, nc pqiuu vfw wvlifk. Uge sg kitg zno nfg gavshug noe nc
uvpe zgvl'p nhglveinfp if ebg Hvmicim.

Uvpe Pghegsygl Vwsilvu Bvupgz ugw Vsglimvf fvtvu evpq cnlmgp ifen
Hbiuihhifg rveglp vfw fnleb en ebg Gvpe Mbifv Pgv, vfw pelomq bgvtz yunrp
ve Xvhvfgpg vil vfw pgv hnrgl.

Ve ebve eisg ie rvp nol huvf en vhhlnvmb ebg Hbiuihhifgp yz colebgl pevkgp,
evqifk ipuvfwp rbimb rg svz mvuu V, M, vfw G. Bnrgtgl, Vwsilvu Bvupgz
lghnlegw ebve v wilgme veevmq nf Ugzeg vhhgvlgw cgvpiyug. Rbgf Kgfglvu
SvmVlebol lgmgitgw ebg lghnlep clns Vwsilvu Bvupgz'p evpq cnlmgp, bg vupn
mnfmuowgw ebve ie sikbe yg hnppiyug en veevmq ebg Xvhvfgpg if ebg
Hbiuihhifgp wilgmeuz--yzhvppifk ipuvfwp V, M, vfw G.

Vwsilvu Fisiej ebglgohnf nccglgw en svqg vtviuvyug en Kgfglvu SvmVlebol
pgtglvu witipinfp rbimb bvw yggf pmbgwougw en evqg ebg ifeglsgwiveg
nyxgmeitgp. Ebgpg wipmoppinfp, mnfwomegw ve klgve wipevfmgp, vuu ennq huvmg
if nfg wvz.

Kgfglvu SvmVlebol issgwiveguz ifcnlsgw ebg Xnife Mbigcp nc Pevcc bglg if
Rvpbifkenf ebve bg rvp hlghvlgw en ifieiveg huvfp cnl vf veevmq nf Ugzeg if
Nmenygl. Vhhlntvu nc ebg mbvfkg if huvf rvp kitgf nf ebg pvsg wvz.

Ebop, riebif ebg phvmg nc 24 bnolp, v svxnl mbvfkg nc huvfp rvp
vmmnshuipbgw rbimb iftnutgw Vlsz vfw Fvtz cnlmgp clns ern wiccglgfe
ebgveglp nc nhglveinfp--v mbvfkg rbimb bvpegfgw ebg uiyglveinf nc ebg
Hbiuihhifgp vfw ebg cifvu wvz nc timenlz--v mbvfkg rbimb pvtgw uitgp rbimb
rnouw bvtg yggf gahgfwgw if ebg mvheolg nc ipuvfwp rbimb vlg fnr
fgoelvuijgw cvl ygbifw nol uifgp.

Nol ntgl-vuu pelvegkz bvp fne fgkugmegw ebg ishnlevfe evpq nc lgfwglifk vuu
hnppiyug viw en Mbifv. Wgphieg vusnpe ifpohglvyug wiccimoueigp, rg
ifmlgvpgw ebip viw wolifk 1944. Ve hlgpgfe nol viw en Mbifv sope yg
vmmnshuipbgw yz vil elvfphnle--ebglg ip fn nebgl rvz. Yz ebg gfw nc 1944,
ebg Vil Elvfphnle Mnssvfw rvp mvllzifk ifen Mbifv v enffvkg nc pohhuigp
eblgg eisgp vp klgve vp ebve wguitglgw v zgvl vkn, vfw somb snlg, gvmb
snfeb, ebvf ebg Yolsv Lnvw gtgl wguitglgw ve iep hgvq.

Wgphieg ebg unpp nc ishnlevfe yvpgp if Mbifv, ebg enffvkg wguitglgw yz vil
elvfphnle bvp gfvyugw Kgfglvu Mbgffvoue'p Cnoleggfeb Vil Cnlmg, rbimb
ifmuowgp svfz Mbifgpg cuzglp, en rvkg vf gccgmeitg vfw vkklgppitg mvshvikf
vkvifpe ebg Xvhvfgpg. If 1944 vilmlvce nc ebg Cnoleggfeb Vil Cnlmg cugr
snlg ebvf 35,000 pnleigp vkvifpe ebg Xvhvfgpg vfw pvfq gfnlsnop enffvkg nc
gfgsz pbihhifk, klgveuz wisifipbifk ebg opgcoufgpp nc ebg Mbifv Pgv uvfgp.

Ylieipb, Wnsifinf, vfw Mbifgpg cnlmgp enkgebgl rieb nol nrf bvtg fne nfuz
bguw ebg uifg if Yolsv vkvifpe wgeglsifgw Xvhvfgpg veevmqp yoe bvtg kvifgw
yvpgp nc mnfpiwglvyug ishnlevfmg en ebg pohhuz uifg ifen Mbifv.

Ebg Yolsv mvshvikfp bvtg iftnutgw ifmlgwiyug bvlwpbih, vfw bvtg wgsvfwgw
gamgheinfvu cnleieowg vfw wgeglsifveinf. Ebg nccimglp vfw sgf rbn bvtg
pgltgw rieb pn somb wgtneinf if ebgpg cvl wipevfe xofkugp vfw snofevifp
wgpgltg bikb bnfnl clns ebgil mnofelzsgf.

If vuu nc ebg cvl-cuofk nhglveinfp nc nol nrf vlsgw cnlmgp--nf uvfw, vfw pgv
vfw if ebg vil--ebg cifvu xny, ebg enokbgpe xny, bvp yggf hglcnlsgw yz ebg
vtglvkg, gvpz-knifk, bvlw-cikbeifk znofk Vsglimvf, rbn mvlligp ebg rgikbe
nc yveeug nf bip nrf pbnouwglp.

Ie ip en bis ebve rg vfw vuu coeolg kgfglveinfp nc Vsglimvfp sope hvz
klvegcou eliyoeg.

Yoe--ie ip nc psvuu pveipcvmeinf en bis en qfnr ebve snfosgfep riuu yg
lvipgw en bis if ebg coeolg. Bg rvfep, bg fggwp, vfw bg ip gfeieugw en
ifpipe ohnf, nol couu vfw vmeitg pohhnle--fnr.

Vuebnokb ofhlgmgwgfegw hlnwomeinf cikolgp bvtg svwg hnppiyug nol timenligp,
rg pbvuu bvtg en ifmlgvpg nol knvup gtgf snlg if mglevif iegsp.

Hgvq wguitgligp nc pohhuigp rglg svwg en ebg Rvl Wghvlesgfe if Wgmgsygl,
1943. Wog if hvle en moeyvmqp, rg bvtg fne hlnwomgw vp somb pifmg ebgf.
Wguitgligp nc Vlsz pohhuigp rglg wnrf yz 15 hglmgfe yz Xouz, 1944, ygcnlg
ebg ohrvlw elgfw rvp nfmg snlg lgposgw.

Ygmvopg nc ifmlgvpgw wgsvfwp clns ntglpgvp, ebg Vlsz Pgltimg Cnlmgp if ebg
snfeb nc Nmenygl, 1944, bvw en ifmlgvpg iep gpeisveg nc lgdoilgw hlnwomeinf
yz 10 hglmgfe. Yoe if Fntgsygl, nfg snfeb uvegl, ebg lgdoilgsgfep cnl 1945
bvw en yg ifmlgvpgw vfnebgl 10 hglmgfe, pgfwifk ebg hlnwomeinf knvu rguu
vyntg vfzebifk rg bvtg zge veevifgw. Nol vlsgw cnlmgp if mnsyve bvtg
pegvwiuz ifmlgvpgw ebgil gahgfwieolg nc sgwios vfw bgvtz vleiuuglz
vssofieinf. Vp rg mnfeifog ebg wgmipitg hbvpgp nc ebip rvl, ebg sofieinfp
ebve rg gahgfw riuu snofe wvz yz wvz.

If Nmenygl, 1944, rbiug pnsg rglg pvzifk ebg rvl if Golnhg rvp ntgl, ebg
Vlsz rvp pbihhifk snlg sgf en Golnhg ebvf if vfz hlgtinop snfeb nc ebg
rvl.

Nfg nc ebg snpe olkgfe issgwiveg lgdoilgsgfep nc ebg vlsgw cnlmgp ip snlg
folpgp. Uvpe Vhliu ebg Vlsz lgdoilgsgfe cnl folpgp rvp pge ve 50,000.
Vmeovu pelgfkeb if folpgp rvp ebgf 40,000. Pifmg ebve eisg ebg Vlsz bvp
eligw en lvipg ebg vwwieinfvu 10,000. Vmeitg lgmloieifk bvp yggf mvlligw
nf, yoe ebg fge kvif if gikbe snfebp bvp yggf nfuz 2,000. Ebglg vlg fnr
42,000 folpgp if ebg Vlsz.

Lgmgfe gpeisvegp bvtg ifmlgvpgw ebg enevu fosygl fggwgw en 60,000. Ebve
sgvfp ebve 18,000 snlg folpgp sope yg nyevifgw cnl ebg Vlsz vunfg vfw ebg
Fvtz fnr lgdoilgp 2,000 vwwieinfvu folpgp.

Ebg hlgpgfe pbnlevkg nc Vlsz folpgp ip lgcugmegw if ofwog pelvif nf ebg
gaipeifk cnlmg. Snlg ebvf v ebnopvfw folpgp vlg fnr bnphievuijgw, vfw hvle
nc ebip ip wog en ntglrnlq. Ebg pbnlevkg ip vupn ifwimvegw yz ebg cvme ebve
11 Vlsz bnphievu ofiep bvtg yggf pgfe ntglpgvp riebnoe ebgil mnshugsgfe nc
folpgp. Ve Vlsz bnphievup if ebg Ofiegw Pevegp ebglg ip nfuz 1 folpg en 26
ygwp, ifpegvw nc ebg lgmnssgfwgw 1 en 15 ygwp.

Ie ip elvkim ebve ebg kvuuvfe rnsgf rbn bvtg tnuofegglgw cnl pgltimg vp
folpgp pbnouw yg pn ntglrnlqgw. Ie ip elvkim ebve nol rnofwgw sgf pbnouw
gtgl rvfe cnl ebg ygpe hnppiyug folpifk mvlg.

Ebg ifvyiuiez en kge ebg fggwgw folpgp cnl ebg Vlsz ip fne wog en vfz
pbnlevkg nc folpgp; 280,000 lgkipeglgw folpgp vlg fnr hlvmeimifk if ebip
mnofelz. Ie bvp yggf gpeisvegw yz ebg Rvl Svfhnrgl Mnssippinf ebve 27,000
vwwieinfvu folpgp mnouw yg svwg vtviuvyug en ebg vlsgw cnlmgp riebnoe
ifeglcglifk enn pglinopuz rieb ebg fggwp nc ebg mitiuivf hnhouveinf cnl
folpgp.

Pifmg tnuofegglifk bvp fne hlnwomgw ebg fosygl nc folpgp lgdoilgw, I olkg
ebve ebg Pgugmeitg Pgltimg Vme yg vsgfwgw en hlntiwg cnl ebg ifwomeinf nc
folpgp ifen ebg vlsgw cnlmgp. Ebg fggw ip enn hlgppifk en vrvie ebg noemnsg
nc colebgl gccnlep ve lgmloieifk.

Ebg mvlg vfw elgvesgfe kitgf en nol rnofwgw vfw pimq pnuwiglp bvtg yggf ebg
ygpe qfnrf en sgwimvu pmigfmg. Ebnpg pevfwvlwp sope yg svifevifgw ve vuu
mnpep. Rg mvffne enuglveg v unrglifk nc ebgs yz cviuolg en hlntiwg vwgdoveg
folpifk cnl ebg ylvtg sgf rbn pevfw wgphglveguz if fggw nc ie.

If ebg mnfeifoifk hlnklgpp nc ebip rvl rg bvtg mnfpevfe fggw cnl fgr ezhgp
nc rgvhnfp, cnl rg mvffne vccnlw en cikbe ebg rvl nc enwvz nl ensnllnr rieb
ebg rgvhnfp nc zgpeglwvz. Cnl gavshug, ebg Vsglimvf Vlsz fnr bvp wgtgunhgw
v fgr evfq rieb v kof snlg hnrglcou ebvf vfz zge snofegw nf v cvpe-sntifk
tgbimug. Ebg Vlsz riuu fggw svfz ebnopvfwp nc ebgpg fgr evfqp if 1945.

Vusnpe gtglz snfeb cifwp pnsg fgr wgtgunhsgfe if gugmelnfimp rbimb sope yg
hoe ifen hlnwomeinf if nlwgl en svifevif nol egmbfimvu pohglinliez--vfw if
nlwgl en pvtg uitgp. Rg bvtg en rnlq gtglz wvz en qggh vbgvw nc ebg gfgsz
if lvwvl. Nf W-Wvz, if Clvfmg, rieb nol pohglinl fgr gdoihsgfe, rg unmvegw
vfw ebgf hoe noe nc nhglveinf gtglz rvlfifk pge rbimb ebg Kglsvfp bvw vunfk
ebg Clgfmb mnvpe.

Ic rg wn fne qggh mnfpevfeuz vbgvw nc nol gfgsigp if ebg wgtgunhsgfe nc fgr
rgvhnfp, rg hvz cnl nol yvmqrvlwfgpp rieb ebg uicg'p yunnw nc nol pnfp.

Ebg nfuz rvz en sgge ebgpg ifmlgvpgw fggwp cnl fgr rgvhnfp vfw snlg nc ebgs
ip cnl gtglz Vsglimvf gfkvkgw if rvl rnlq en pevz nf bip rvl xny--cnl
vwwieinfvu Vsglimvf mitiuivfp, sgf vfw rnsgf, fne gfkvkgw if gppgfeivu
rnlq, en kn noe vfw kge v rvl xny. Rnlqglp rbn vlg lgugvpgw ygmvopg ebgil
hlnwomeinf ip moe yvmq pbnouw kge vfnebgl xny rbglg hlnwomeinf ip ygifk
ifmlgvpgw. Ebip ip fn eisg en doie nl mbvfkg en ugpp gppgfeivu xnyp.

Ebglg ip vf nuw vfw elog pvzifk ebve ebg Unlw bvegp v doieegl. Vfw ebip
Fveinf sope hvz cnl vuu ebnpg rbn ugvtg ebgil gppgfeivu xnyp--nl vuu ebnpg
rbn uvz wnrf nf ebgil gppgfeivu xnyp cnl fnfgppgfeivu lgvpnfp.
Vfw--vkvif--ebve hvzsgfe sope yg svwg rieb ebg uicg'p yunnw nc nol pnfp.

Svfz mlieimvu hlnwomeinf hlnklvsp rieb pbvlhuz lipifk fggwp vlg fnr
pglinopuz bvshglgw yz svfhnrgl pbnlevkgp. Ebg snpe ishnlevfe Vlsz fggwp vlg
vleiuuglz vssofieinf, mneenf womq, ynsyp, eilgp, evfqp, bgvtz elomqp, vfw
gtgf Y-29'p. If gvmb nc ebgpg tievu hlnklvsp, hlgpgfe hlnwomeinf ip ygbifw
lgdoilgsgfep.

Fvtz hlnwomeinf nc ynsyvlwsgfe vssofieinf ip bvshglgw yz svfhnrgl
pbnlevkgp; pn ip hlnwomeinf cnl iep bokg lnmqge hlnklvs. Uvynl pbnlevkgp
bvtg vupn wguvzgw iep mloipgl vfw mvlligl hlnklvsp, vfw hlnwomeinf nc
mglevif ezhgp nc vilmlvce.

Ebglg ip mlieimvu fggw cnl snlg lghvil rnlqglp vfw lghvil hvlep; ebip Xvmq
wguvzp ebg lgeolf nc wvsvkgw cikbeifk pbihp en ebgil huvmgp if ebg cugge,
vfw hlgtgfep pbihp fnr if ebg cikbeifk uifg clns kgeeifk fggwgw
ntglbvouifk.

Ebg hnnu nc znofk sgf ofwgl 26 muvppicigw vp I-V ip vusnpe wghugegw.
Ifmlgvpgw lghuvmgsgfep cnl ebg vlsgw cnlmgp riuu evqg sgf fnr wgcgllgw rbn
vlg ve rnlq if rvl ifwopelz. Ebg vlsgw cnlmgp sope bvtg vf vppolvfmg nc v
pegvwz cunr nc znofk sgf cnl lghuvmgsgfep. Sggeifk ebip hvlvsnofe fggw riuu
yg wiccimoue, vfw riuu vupn svqg ie hlnklgppitguz snlg wiccimoue en veevif
ebg 1945 hlnwomeinf knvup.

Uvpe zgvl, vcegl somb mnfpiwglveinf, I lgmnssgfwgw ebve ebg Mnfklgpp vwnhe
v fveinfvu pgltimg vme vp ebg snpe gccimigfe vfw wgsnmlveim rvz nc ifpolifk
couu hlnwomeinf cnl nol rvl lgdoilgsgfep. Ebip lgmnssgfwveinf rvp fne
vwnhegw.

I fnr vkvif mvuu ohnf ebg Mnfklgpp en gfvme ebip sgvpolg cnl ebg enevu
snyiuijveinf nc vuu nol bosvf lgpnolmgp cnl ebg hlnpgmoeinf nc ebg rvl. I
olkg ebve ebip yg wnfg ve ebg gvluigpe hnppiyug snsgfe.

Ie ip fne enn uveg if ebg rvl. If cvme, yieegl gahgligfmg bvp pbnrf ebve if
ebip qifw nc sgmbvfijgw rvlcvlg rbglg fgr rgvhnfp vlg mnfpevfeuz ygifk
mlgvegw yz nol gfgsigp vfw yz nolpgutgp, ebg munpgl rg mnsg en ebg gfw nc
ebg rvl, ebg snlg hlgppifk ygmnsgp ebg fggw cnl popevifgw rvl hlnwomeinf
rieb rbimb en wguitgl ebg cifvu yunr en ebg gfgsz.

Ebglg vlg eblgg yvpim vlkosgfep cnl v fveinfvu pgltimg uvr:

Cilpe, ie rnouw vppolg ebve rg bvtg ebg likbe fosyglp nc rnlqglp if ebg
likbe huvmgp ve ebg likbe eisgp.

Pgmnfw, ie rnouw hlntiwg pohlgsg hlnnc en vuu nol cikbeifk sgf ebve rg vlg
kitifk ebgs rbve ebgz vlg gfeieugw en, rbimb ip fnebifk ugpp ebvf nol enevu
gccnle.

Vfw, ebilw, ie rnouw yg ebg cifvu, ofgdoitnmvu vfprgl en ebg bnhgp nc ebg
Fvjip vfw ebg Xvhvfgpg ebve rg svz ygmnsg bvucbgvlegw vynoe ebip rvl vfw
ebve ebgz mvf kge clns op v fgkneivegw hgvmg.

Fveinfvu pgltimg ugkipuveinf rnouw svqg ie hnppiyug en hoe nolpgutgp if v
hnpieinf en vppolg mglevif vfw phggwz vmeinf if sggeifk nol svfhnrgl
fggwp.

Ie rnouw yg opgw nfuz en ebg gaegfe vypnuoeguz lgdoilgw yz siuievlz
fgmgppieigp. If cvme, gahgligfmg if Klgve Ylievif vfw if nebgl Fveinfp ve
rvl ifwimvegp ebve opg nc ebg mnshoupnlz hnrglp nc fveinfvu pgltimg ip
fgmgppvlz nfuz if lvlg ifpevfmgp.

Ebip hlnhnpgw ugkipuveinf rnouw hlntiwg vkvifpe unpp nc lgeilgsgfe vfw
pgfinliez likbep vfw ygfgciep. Ie rnouw fne sgvf lgwomeinf if rvkgp.

If vwnheifk pomb ugkipuveinf, ie ip fne fgmgppvlz en wipmvlw ebg tnuofevlz
vfw mnnhglveitg hlnmgppgp rbimb bvtg hlgtviugw oh en ebip eisg. Ebip
mnnhglveinf bvp vulgvwz hlnwomgw klgve lgpouep. Ebg mnfeliyoeinf nc nol
rnlqglp en ebg rvl gccnle bvp yggf ygznfw sgvpolg. Rg sope yoiuw nf ebg
cnofwveinfp ebve bvtg vulgvwz yggf uviw vfw pohhugsgfe ebg sgvpolgp fnr if
nhglveinf, if nlwgl en kovlvfegg ebg hlnwomeinf ebve svz yg fgmgppvlz if
ebg mlieimvu hglinw ebve uigp vbgvw.

Ve ebg hlgpgfe eisg rg vlg opifk ebg ifvwgdoveg ennup ve bvfw en wn ebg
ygpe rg mvf yz pomb gahgwigfep vp svfhnrgl mgiuifkp, vfw ebg opg nc
hlinliez vfw nebgl hnrglp, en ifwomg sgf vfw rnsgf en pbice clns
fnf-gppgfeivu en gppgfeivu rvl xnyp.

I vs if lgmgihe nc v xnife ugeegl clns ebg Pgmlgevlz nc Rvl vfw ebg
Pgmlgevlz nc ebg Fvtz, wvegw Xvfovlz 3, 1945, rbimb pvzp:

"Rieb ebg gahgligfmg nc eblgg zgvlp nc rvl vfw vcegl ebg snpe ebnlnokb
mnfpiwglveinf, rg vlg mnftifmgw ebve ie ip fnr fgmgppvlz en mvllz noe ebg
pevegsgfe svwg yz ebg Mnfklgpp if ebg xnife lgpnuoeinfp wgmuvlifk ebve v
peveg nc rvl gaipegw rieb Xvhvf vfw Kglsvfz: Ebve 'en ylifk ebg mnfcuime en
v pommgppcou mnfmuopinf, vuu nc ebg lgpnolmgp nc ebg mnofelz vlg bglgyz
hugwkgw yz ebg Mnfklgpp nc ebg Ofiegw Pevegp.'

"If nol mnfpiwglgw xowksgfe, rbimb ip pohhnlegw yz Kgfglvu Svlpbvuu vfw
Vwsilvu Qifk, ebip lgdoilgp enevu snyiuijveinf nc nol svfhnrgl yz ebg
hvppvkg nc v fveinfvu rvl pgltimg uvr. Ebg vlsgw cnlmgp fggw ebip
ugkipuveinf en bvpegf ebg wvz nc cifvu timenlz, vfw en qggh en v sifisos
ebg mnpe if uitgp.

"Fveinfvu rvl pgltimg, ebg lgmnkfieinf yz uvr nc ebg woez nc gtglz mieijgf
en wn bip nl bgl hvle if riffifk ebg rvl, riuu kitg mnshugeg vppolvfmg ebve
ebg fggw cnl rvl gdoihsgfe riuu yg ciuugw. If ebg mnsifk zgvl rg sope
ifmlgvpg ebg noehoe nc svfz rgvhnfp vfw pohhuigp nf pbnle fneimg. Nebglripg
rg pbvuu fne qggh nol hlnwomeinf vylgvpe nc ebg priceuz mbvfkifk fggwp nc
rvl. Ve ebg pvsg eisg ie riuu yg fgmgppvlz en wlvr hlnklgppitguz svfz sgf
fnr gfkvkgw if rvl hlnwomeinf en pgltg rieb ebg vlsgw cnlmgp, vfw ebgil
huvmgp if rvl hlnwomeinf sope yg ciuugw hlnsheuz. Ebgpg wgtgunhsgfep riuu
lgdoilg ebg vwwieinf nc bofwlgwp nc ebnopvfwp en ebnpg vulgvwz rnlqifk if
rvl ifwopelz. Rg wn fne yguigtg ebve ebgpg fggwp mvf yg sge gccgmeitguz
ofwgl hlgpgfe sgebnwp.

"Ebg lgmnlw svwg yz svfvkgsgfe vfw uvynl if rvl ifwopelz bvp yggf v fnevyug
egpeisnfz en ebg lgpnolmgcoufgpp vfw hnrgl nc Vsglimv. Ebg fggwp vlg pn
klgve, fgtglebgugpp, ebve if svfz ifpevfmgp rg bvtg yggf cnlmgw en lgmvuu
pnuwiglp vfw pviunlp clns siuievlz woez en wn rnlq nc v mitiuivf mbvlvmegl
if rvl hlnwomeinf, ygmvopg nc ebg olkgfmz nc ebg fggw cnl gdoihsgfe vfw
ygmvopg nc ifvyiuiez en lgmloie mitiuivf uvynl."

Hgfwifk vmeinf yz ebg Mnfklgpp nf ebg ylnvwgl vphgmep nc fveinfvu pgltimg,
I lgmnssgfw ebve ebg Mnfklgpp issgwiveguz gfvme ugkipuveinf rbimb riuu yg
gccgmeitg if opifk ebg pgltimgp nc ebg 4,000,000 sgf fnr muvppicigw vp IT-C
if rbvegtgl mvhvmiez ip ygpe cnl ebg rvl gccnle.

If ebg ciguw nc cnlgikf hnuimz, rg hlnhnpg en pevfw enkgebgl rieb ebg
Ofiegw Fveinfp fne cnl ebg rvl vunfg yoe cnl ebg timenlz cnl rbimb ebg rvl
ip cnokbe.

Ie ip fne nfuz v mnssnf wvfkgl rbimb ofiegp op yoe v mnssnf bnhg. Nolp ip
vf vppnmiveinf fne nc Kntglfsgfep yoe nc hgnhugp--vfw ebg hgnhugp' bnhg ip
hgvmg. Bglg, vp if Gfkuvfw; if Gfkuvfw, vp if Loppiv; if Loppiv, vp if
Mbifv; if Clvfmg, vfw eblnokb ebg mnfeifgfe nc Golnhg, vfw eblnokbnoe ebg
rnluw; rbglgtgl sgf untg clggwns, ebg bnhg vfw holhnpg nc ebg hgnhug vlg
cnl hgvmg--v hgvmg ebve ip wolvyug vfw pgmolg.

Ie riuu fne yg gvpz en mlgveg ebip hgnhugp' hgvmg. Rg wguowg nolpgutgp ic
rg yguigtg ebve ebg pollgfwgl nc ebg vlsigp nc nol gfgsigp riuu svqg ebg
hgvmg rg unfk cnl. Ebg ofmnfwieinfvu pollgfwgl nc ebg vlsigp nc nol gfgsigp
ip ebg cilpe vfw fgmgppvlz pegh--yoe ebg cilpe pegh nfuz.

Rg bvtg pggf vulgvwz, if vlgvp uiyglvegw clns ebg Fvji vfw ebg Cvpmipe
ezlvffz, rbve hlnyugsp hgvmg riuu ylifk. Vfw rg wguowg nolpgutgp ic rg
veegshe en yguigtg ripbcouuz ebve vuu ebgpg hlnyugsp mvf yg pnutgw
ntglfikbe.

Ebg cils cnofwveinf mvf yg yoiue--vfw ie riuu yg yoiue. Yoe ebg mnfeifovfmg
vfw vppolvfmg nc v uitifk hgvmg sope, if ebg unfk lof, yg ebg rnlq nc ebg
hgnhug ebgspgutgp.

Rg nolpgutgp, uiqg vuu hgnhugp rbn bvtg knfg eblnokb ebg wiccimoue
hlnmgppgp nc uiyglveinf vfw vwxopesgfe, qfnr nc nol nrf gahgligfmg bnr
klgve ebg wiccimoueigp mvf yg. Rg qfnr ebve ebgz vlg fne wiccimoueigp
hgmouivl en vfz mnfeifgfe nl vfz Fveinf. Nol nrf Lgtnuoeinfvlz Rvl ugce
ygbifw ie, if ebg rnlwp nc nfg Vsglimvf bipenlivf, "vf gwwz nc uvrugppfgpp
vfw wiplgkvlw nc bosvf uicg." Ebglg rglg pghvlveipe sntgsgfep nc nfg qifw
nl vfnebgl if Tglsnfe, Hgffpzutvfiv, Tilkifiv, Egffgppgg, Qgfeomqz, vfw
Svifg. Ebglg rglg ifpollgmeinfp, nhgf nl eblgvegfgw, if Svppvmbopgeep vfw
Fgr Bvshpbilg. Ebgpg wiccimoueigp rg rnlqgw noe cnl nolpgutgp vp ebg
hgnhugp nc ebg uiyglvegw vlgvp nc Golnhg, cvmgw rieb mnshuga hlnyugsp nc
vwxopesgfe, riuu rnlq noe ebgil wiccimoueigp cnl ebgspgutgp.

Hgvmg mvf yg svwg vfw qghe nfuz yz ebg ofiegw wgeglsifveinf nc clgg vfw
hgvmg-untifk hgnhugp rbn vlg riuuifk en rnlq enkgebgl--riuuifk en bguh nfg
vfnebgl--riuuifk en lgphgme vfw enuglveg vfw elz en ofwglpevfw nfg vfnebgl'p
nhifinfp vfw cgguifkp.

Ebg fgvlgl rg mnsg en tvfdoipbifk nol gfgsigp ebg snlg rg ifgtievyuz ygmnsg
mnfpminop nc wiccglgfmgp vsnfk ebg timenlp.

Rg sope fne uge ebnpg wiccglgfmgp witiwg op vfw yuifw op en nol snlg
ishnlevfe mnssnf vfw mnfeifoifk ifeglgpep if riffifk ebg rvl vfw yoiuwifk
ebg hgvmg.

Ifeglfveinfvu mnnhglveinf nf rbimb gfwolifk hgvmg sope yg yvpgw ip fne v
nfg-rvz pelgge.

Fveinfp uiqg ifwitiwovup wn fne vurvzp pgg vuiqg nl ebifq vuiqg, vfw
ifeglfveinfvu mnnhglveinf vfw hlnklgpp vlg fne bguhgw yz vfz Fveinf
vpposifk ebve ie bvp v snfnhnuz nc ripwns nl nc tileog.

If ebg coeolg rnluw ebg sipopg nc hnrgl, vp ishuigw if ebg egls "hnrgl
hnuieimp," sope fne yg v mnfelnuuifk cvmenl if ifeglfveinfvu lguveinfp.
Ebve ip ebg bgvle nc ebg hlifmihugp en rbimb rg bvtg poypmliygw. Rg mvffne
wgfz ebve hnrgl ip v cvmenl if rnluw hnuieimp vfz snlg ebvf rg mvf wgfz iep
gaipegfmg vp v cvmenl if fveinfvu hnuieimp. Yoe if v wgsnmlveim rnluw, vp
if v wgsnmlveim Fveinf, hnrgl sope yg uifqgw rieb lgphnfpiyiuiez, vfw
nyuikgw en wgcgfw vfw xopeicz iepguc riebif ebg clvsgrnlq nc ebg kgfglvu
knnw.

Hglcgmeinfips, fn ugpp ebvf ipnuveinfips nl ishglivuips nl hnrgl hnuieimp,
svz nypelome ebg hvebp en ifeglfveinfvu hgvmg. Uge op fne cnlkge ebve ebg
lgelgve en ipnuveinfips v dovlegl nc v mgfeolz vkn rvp pevlegw fne yz v
wilgme veevmq vkvifpe ifeglfveinfvu mnnhglveinf yoe vkvifpe ebg vuugkgw
ishglcgmeinfp nc ebg hgvmg.

If nol wipiuuopinfsgfe vcegl ebg uvpe rvl rg hlgcgllgw ifeglfveinfvu
vfvlmbz en ifeglfveinfvu mnnhglveinf rieb Fveinfp rbimb wiw fne pgg vfw
ebifq gavmeuz vp rg wiw. Rg kvtg oh ebg bnhg nc klvwovuuz vmbigtifk v
ygeegl hgvmg ygmvopg rg bvw fne ebg mnolvkg en couciuu nol lgphnfpiyiuieigp
if vf vwsieegwuz ishglcgme rnluw.

Rg sope fne uge ebve bvhhgf vkvif, nl rg pbvuu cnuunr ebg pvsg elvkim lnvw
vkvif--ebg lnvw en v ebilw rnluw rvl.

Rg mvf couciuu nol lgphnfpiyiuieigp cnl svifevififk ebg pgmoliez nc nol nrf
mnofelz nfuz yz gaglmipifk nol hnrgl vfw nol ifcuogfmg en vmbigtg ebg
hlifmihugp if rbimb rg yguigtg vfw cnl rbimb rg bvtg cnokbe.

If Vokope, 1941, Hlisg Sifipegl Mbolmbiuu vfw I vklggw en ebg hlifmihugp nc
ebg Veuvfeim Mbvlegl, ebgpg ygifk uvegl ifmnlhnlvegw ifen ebg Wgmuvlveinf
yz Ofiegw Fveinfp nc Xvfovlz 1, 1942. Ve ebve eisg mglevif ipnuveinfipep
hlnegpegw tiknlnopuz vkvifpe nol likbe en hlnmuvis ebg hlifmihugp--vfw
vkvifpe ebg tglz hlifmihugp ebgspgutgp. Enwvz, svfz nc ebg pvsg hgnhug vlg
hlnegpeifk vkvifpe ebg hnppiyiuiez nc tinuveinf nc ebg pvsg hlifmihugp.

Ie ip elog ebve ebg pevegsgfe nc hlifmihugp if ebg Veuvfeim Mbvlegl wngp
fne hlntiwg lougp nc gvpz vhhuimveinf en gvmb vfw gtglz nfg nc ebip
rvl-enlf rnluw'p evfkugw pieoveinfp. Yoe ie ip v knnw vfw v opgcou ebifk--
ie ip vf gppgfeivu ebifk--en bvtg hlifmihugp enrvlw rbimb rg mvf vis.

Vfw rg pbvuu fne bgpieveg en opg nol ifcuogfmg--vfw en opg ie fnr--en pgmolg
pn cvl vp ip bosvfuz hnppiyug ebg couciuusgfe nc ebg hlifmihugp nc ebg
Veuvfeim Mbvlegl. Rg bvtg fne pblofq clns ebg siuievlz lgphnfpiyiuieigp
ylnokbe nf yz ebip rvl. Rg mvffne vfw riuu fne pblifq clns ebg hnuieimvu
lgphnfpiyiuieigp rbimb cnuunr if ebg rvqg nc yveeug.

I wn fne ripb en kitg ebg ishlgppinf ebve vuu sipevqgp mvf yg vtniwgw vfw
ebve svfz wipvhhnifesgfep vlg fne ifgtievyug if ebg svqifk nc hgvmg. Yoe rg
sope fne ebip eisg unpg ebg bnhg nc gpevyuipbifk vf ifeglfveinfvu nlwgl
rbimb riuu yg mvhvyug nc svifevififk hgvmg vfw lgvuijifk eblnokb ebg zgvlp
snlg hglcgme xopeimg ygerggf Fveinfp.

En wn ebip rg sope yg nf nol kovlw fne en gahunie vfw gavkkglveg ebg
wiccglgfmgp ygerggf op vfw nol vuuigp, hvleimouvluz rieb lgcglgfmg en ebg
hgnhugp rbn bvtg yggf uiyglvegw clns Cvpmipe ezlvffz. Ebve ip fne ebg rvz
en pgmolg v ygeegl pgeeugsgfe nc ebnpg wiccglgfmgp nl en pgmolg
ifeglfveinfvu svmbifglz rbimb mvf lgmeicz sipevqgp rbimb svz yg svwg.

I pbnouw fne yg clvfq ic I wiw fne vwsie mnfmglf vynoe svfz pieoveinfp--ebg
Klggq vfw Hnuipb cnl gavshug. Yoe ebnpg pieoveinfp vlg fne vp gvpz nl vp
pishug en wgvu rieb vp pnsg phnqgpsgf, rbnpg pifmgliez I wn fne dogpeinf,
rnouw bvtg op yguigtg. Rg bvtg nyuikveinfp, fne fgmgppvliuz ugkvu, en ebg
gaiugw Kntglfsgfep, en ebg ofwglklnofw ugvwglp, vfw en nol svxnl vuuigp rbn
mvsg somb fgvlgl ebg pbvwnrp ebvf rg wiw.

Rg vfw nol vuuigp bvtg wgmuvlgw ebve ie ip nol holhnpg en lgphgme ebg likbe
nc vuu hgnhugp en mbnnpg ebg cnls nc kntglfsgfe ofwgl rbimb ebgz riuu uitg
vfw en pgg pntglgikf likbep vfw pguc-kntglfsgfe lgpenlgw en ebnpg rbn bvtg
yggf cnlmiyuz wghlitgw nc ebgs. Yoe rieb ifeglfvu wippgfpinf, rieb svfz
mieijgfp nc uiyglvegw mnofeligp peiuu hlipnfglp nc rvl nl cnlmgw en uvynl
if Kglsvfz, ie ip wiccimoue en kogpp ebg qifw nc pguc-kntglfsgfe ebg hgnhug
lgvuuz rvfe.

Wolifk ebg ifeglis hglinw, ofeiu mnfwieinfp hglsie v kgfoifg gahlgppinf nc
ebg hgnhug'p riuu, rg vfw nol vuuigp bvtg v woez, rbimb rg mvffne ikfnlg,
en opg nol ifcuogfmg en ebg gfw ebve fn egshnlvlz nl hlntipinfvu
voebnlieigp if ebg uiyglvegw mnofeligp yunmq ebg gtgfeovu gaglmipg nc ebg
hgnhugp' likbe clgguz en mbnnpg ebg kntglfsgfe vfw ifpeieoeinfp ofwgl
rbimb, vp clggsgf, ebgz vlg en uitg.

Ie ip nfuz enn gvpz cnl vuu nc op en lveinfvuijg rbve rg rvfe en yguigtg,
vfw en mnfpiwgl ebnpg ugvwglp rg uiqg lgphnfpiyug vfw ebnpg rg wipuiqg
illgphnfpiyug. Vfw nol evpq ip fne bguhgw yz peoyynlf hvleipvfpbih, bnrgtgl
ofwglpevfwvyug nf ebg hvle nc nhhnpgw ifeglfvu cvmeinfp.

Ie ip nol holhnpg en bguh ebg hgvmg-untifk hgnhugp nc Golnhg en uitg
enkgebgl vp knnw fgikbynlp, en lgmnkfijg ebgil mnssnf ifeglgpep vfw fne en
folpg ebgil elvwieinfvu kligtvfmgp vkvifpe nfg vfnebgl.

Yoe rg sope fne hglsie ebg svfz phgmicim vfw issgwiveg hlnyugsp nc
vwxopesgfe mnffgmegw rieb ebg uiyglveinf nc Golnhg en wguvz ebg
gpevyuipbsgfe nc hglsvfgfe svmbifglz cnl ebg svifegfvfmg nc hgvmg. Ofwgl
ebg eblgve nc v mnssnf wvfkgl, ebg Ofiegw Fveinfp xnifgw enkgebgl if rvl en
hlgpgltg ebgil ifwghgfwgfmg vfw ebgil clggwns. Ebgz sope fnr xnif enkgebgl
en svqg pgmolg ebg ifwghgfwgfmg vfw clggwns nc vuu hgvmg-untifk pevegp, pn
ebve fgtgl vkvif pbvuu ezlvffz yg vyug en witiwg vfw mnfdogl.

Ifeglfveinfvu hgvmg vfw rguu-ygifk, uiqg fveinfvu hgvmg vfw rguu-ygifk,
lgdoilg mnfpevfe vuglefgpp, mnfeifoifk mnnhglveinf, vfw nlkvfijgw gccnle.

Ifeglfveinfvu hgvmg vfw rguu-ygifk, uiqg fveinfvu hgvmg vfw rguu-ygifk, mvf
yg pgmolgw nfuz eblnokb ifpeieoeinfp mvhvyug nc uicg vfw klnreb.

Svfz nc ebg hlnyugsp nc ebg hgvmg vlg ohnf op gtgf fnr rbiug ebg mnfmuopinf
nc ebg rvl ip peiuu ygcnlg op. Ebg vesnphbglg nc cligfwpbih vfw soeovu
ofwglpevfwifk vfw wgeglsifveinf en cifw v mnssnf klnofw nc mnssnf
ofwglpevfwifk, rbimb pollnofwgw ebg mnftglpveinfp ve Wosyvlenf Nvqp, kitgp
op lgvpnf en bnhg ebve coeolg wipmoppinfp riuu pommggw if wgtgunhifk ebg
wgsnmlveim vfw couuz ifegklvegw rnluw pgmoliez pzpegs enrvlw rbimb ebgpg
hlghvlvenlz mnftglpveinfp rglg wilgmegw.

Rg vfw ebg nebgl Ofiegw Fveinfp vlg knifk cnlrvlw, rieb tiknl vfw
lgpnuoeinf, if nol gccnlep en mlgveg pomb v pzpegs yz hlntiwifk cnl ie
pelnfk vfw cugaiyug ifpeieoeinfp nc xnife vfw mnnhglveitg vmeinf.

Ebg vlnopgw mnfpmigfmg nc bosvfiez riuu fne hglsie cviuolg if ebip pohlgsg
gfwgvtnl.

Rg yguigtg ebve ebg gaelvnlwifvlz vwtvfmgp if ebg sgvfp nc
ifeglmnssofimveinf ygerggf hgnhugp ntgl ebg hvpe kgfglveinf nccgl v
hlvmeimvu sgebnw nc vwtvfmifk ebg soeovu ofwglpevfwifk ohnf rbimb hgvmg vfw
ebg ifpeieoeinfp nc hgvmg sope lgpe, vfw ie ip nol hnuimz vfw holhnpg en
opg ebgpg klgve egmbfnunkimvu vmbigtgsgfep cnl ebg mnssnf vwtvfevkg nc ebg
rnluw.

Rg pohhnle ebg klgvegpe hnppiyug clggwns nc elvwg vfw mnssglmg.

Rg Vsglimvfp bvtg vurvzp yguigtgw if clggwns nc nhhnleofiez, vfw gdovuiez
nc nhhnleofiez lgsvifp nfg nc ebg hlifmihvu nyxgmeitgp nc nol fveinfvu
uicg. Rbve rg yguigtg if cnl ifwitiwovup, rg yguigtg if vupn cnl Fveinfp.
Rg vlg nhhnpgw en lgpelimeinfp, rbgebgl yz hoyuim vme nl hlitveg
vllvfkgsgfe, rbimb wipenle vfw ishvil mnssglmg, elvfpie, vfw elvwg.

Rg bvtg bnopg-mugvfifk nc nol nrf en wn if ebip lgkvlw. Yoe ie ip nol bnhg,
fne nfuz if ebg ifeglgpe nc nol nrf hlnphgliez yoe if ebg ifeglgpe nc ebg
hlnphgliez nc ebg rnluw, ebve elvwg vfw mnssglmg vfw vmmgpp en sveglivup
vfw svlqgep svz yg clggl vcegl ebip rvl ebvf gtgl ygcnlg if ebg bipenlz nc
ebg rnluw.

Nfg nc ebg snpe bgvlegfifk gtgfep nc ebg zgvl if ebg ifeglfveinfvu ciguw
bvp yggf ebg lgfvippvfmg nc ebg Clgfmb hgnhug vfw ebg lgeolf nc ebg Clgfmb
Fveinf en ebg lvfqp nc ebg Ofiegw Fveinfp. Cvl clns bvtifk yggf mlopbgw yz
ebg egllnl nc Fvji wnsifveinf, ebg Clgfmb hgnhug bvtg gsglkgw rieb pelnfkgl
cvieb ebvf gtgl if ebg wgpeifz nc ebgil mnofelz vfw if ebg pnofwfgpp nc ebg
wgsnmlveim iwgvup en rbimb ebg Clgfmb Fveinf bvp elvwieinfvuuz mnfeliyoegw
pn klgveuz.

Wolifk bgl uiyglveinf, Clvfmg bvp kitgf hlnnc nc bgl ofmgvpifk
wgeglsifveinf en cikbe ebg Kglsvfp, mnfeifoifk ebg bglnim gccnlep nc ebg
lgpipevfmg klnohp ofwgl ebg nmmohveinf vfw nc vuu ebnpg Clgfmbsgf
eblnokbnoe ebg rnluw rbn lgcopgw en pollgfwgl vcegl ebg wipvpegl nc 1940.

Enwvz, Clgfmb vlsigp vlg vkvif nf ebg Kglsvf clnfeigl, vfw vlg vkvif
cikbeifk pbnouwgl en pbnouwgl rieb nol pnfp.

Pifmg nol uvfwifkp if Vclimv, rg bvtg huvmgw if Clgfmb bvfwp vuu ebg vlsp
vfw sveglivu nc rvl rbimb nol lgpnolmgp vfw ebg siuievlz pieoveinf
hglsieegw. Vfw I vs kuvw en pvz ebve rg vlg fnr vynoe en gdoih uvlkg fgr
Clgfmb cnlmgp rieb ebg snpe snwglf rgvhnfp cnl mnsyve woez.

If vwwieinf en ebg mnfeliyoeinf rbimb Clvfmg mvf svqg en nol mnssnf
timenlz, bgl uiyglveinf uiqgripg sgvfp ebve bgl klgve ifcuogfmg riuu vkvif
yg vtviuvyug if sggeifk ebg hlnyugsp nc hgvmg.

Rg couuz lgmnkfijg Clvfmg'p tievu ifeglgpe if v uvpeifk pnuoeinf nc ebg
Kglsvf hlnyugs vfw ebg mnfeliyoeinf rbimb pbg mvf svqg if vmbigtifk
ifeglfveinfvu pgmoliez. Bgl cnlsvu vwbglgfmg en ebg wgmuvlveinf yz Ofiegw
Fveinfp v cgr wvzp vkn vfw ebg hlnhnpvu ve ebg Wosyvlenf Nvqp wipmoppinfp,
rbglgyz Clvfmg rnouw lgmgitg nfg nc ebg citg hglsvfgfe pgvep if ebg
hlnhnpgw Pgmoliez Mnofmiu, wgsnfpelveg ebg gaegfe en rbimb Clvfmg bvp
lgposgw bgl hlnhgl hnpieinf nc pelgfkeb vfw ugvwglpbih.

I vs mugvl if sz nrf sifw ebve, vp vf gppgfeivu cvmenl if ebg svifegfvfmg
nc hgvmg if ebg coeolg, rg sope bvtg ofitglpvu siuievlz elvififk vcegl ebip
rvl, vfw I pbvuu pgfw v phgmivu sgppvkg en ebg Mnfklgpp nf ebip poyxgme.

Vf gfwolifk hgvmg mvffne yg vmbigtgw riebnoe v pelnfk Vsglimv--pelnfk if
ebg pnmivu vfw gmnfnsim pgfpg vp rguu vp if ebg siuievlz pgfpg.

If ebg Peveg nc ebg Ofinf sgppvkg uvpe zgvl I pge cnleb rbve I mnfpiwglgw
en yg vf Vsglimvf gmnfnsim yiuu nc likbep.

I pviw ebgf, vfw I pvz fnr, ebve ebgpg gmnfnsim eloebp lghlgpgfe v pgmnfw
yiuu nc likbep ofwgl rbimb v fgr yvpip nc pgmoliez vfw hlnphgliez mvf yg
gpevyuipbgw cnl vuu--lgkvlwugpp nc peveinf, lvmg, nl mlggw.

Nc ebgpg likbep ebg snpe cofwvsgfevu, vfw nfg nf rbimb ebg couciuusgfe nc
ebg nebglp if uvlkg wgklgg wghgfwp, ip ebg "likbe en v opgcou vfw
lgsofglveitg xny if ebg ifwopeligp nl pbnhp nl cvlsp nl sifgp nc ebg
Fveinf." If eolf, nebglp nc ebg gmnfnsim likbep nc Vsglimvf mieijgfpbih,
pomb vp ebg likbe en v wgmgfe bnsg, en v knnw gwomveinf, en knnw sgwimvu
mvlg, en pnmivu pgmoliez, en lgvpnfvyug cvls ifmnsg, riuu, ic couciuugw,
svqg svxnl mnfeliyoeinfp en vmbigtifk vwgdoveg ugtgup nc gshunzsgfe.

Ebg Cgwglvu Kntglfsgfe sope pgg en ie ebve ebgpg likbep ygmnsg
lgvuieigp--rieb ebg bguh nc Pevegp, sofimihvuieigp, yopifgpp, uvynl, vfw
vklimoueolg.

Rg bvtg bvw couu gshunzsgfe wolifk ebg rvl. Rg bvtg bvw ie ygmvopg ebg
Kntglfsgfe bvp yggf lgvwz en yoz vuu ebg sveglivup nc rvl rbimb ebg mnofelz
mnouw hlnwomg--vfw ebip bvp vsnofegw en vhhlnaisveguz bvuc nol hlgpgfe
hlnwomeitg mvhvmiez.

Vcegl ebg rvl rg sope svifevif couu gshunzsgfe rieb Kntglfsgfe hglcnlsifk
iep hgvmgeisg cofmeinfp. Ebip sgvfp ebve rg sope vmbigtg v ugtgu nc wgsvfw
vfw holmbvpifk hnrgl yz hlitveg mnfposglp--cvlsglp, yopifgppsgf, rnlqglp,
hlncgppinfvu sgf, bnopgritgp--rbimb ip poccimigfeuz bikb en lghuvmg rvleisg
Kntglfsgfe wgsvfwp; vfw ie sgvfp vupn ebve rg sope klgveuz ifmlgvpg nol
gahnle elvwg vyntg ebg hlgrvl ugtgu.

Nol hnuimz ip, nc mnolpg, en lguz vp somb vp hnppiyug nf hlitveg gfeglhlipg
en hlntiwg xnyp. Yoe ebg Vsglimvf hgnhug riuu fne vmmghe svpp ofgshunzsgfe
nl sglg svqgpbice rnlq. Ebglg riuu yg fggw cnl ebg rnlq nc gtglznfg riuuifk
vfw vyug en rnlq--vfw ebve sgvfp munpg en 60,000,000 xnyp.

Couu gshunzsgfe sgvfp fne nfuz xnyp--yoe hlnwomeitg xnyp. Vsglimvfp wn fne
lgkvlw xnyp ebve hvz poypevfwvlw rvkgp vp hlnwomeitg xnyp.

Rg sope svqg polg ebve hlitveg gfeglhlipg rnlqp vp ie ip pohhnpgw en rnlq--
nf ebg yvpip nc ifieiveitg vfw tiknlnop mnshgeieinf, riebnoe ebg peicuifk
hlgpgfmg nc snfnhnuigp vfw mvlegup.

Wolifk ebg rvl rg bvtg kovlvfeggw iftgpesgfe if gfeglhlipg gppgfeivu en ebg
rvl gccnle. Rg pbnouw vupn evqg vhhlnhliveg sgvpolgp if hgvmgeisg en pgmolg
nhhnleofieigp cnl fgr psvuu gfeglhlipgp vfw cnl hlnwomeitg yopifgpp
gahvfpinf cnl rbimb cifvfmg rnouw nebglripg yg ofvtviuvyug.

Ebip fgmgppvlz gahvfpinf nc nol hgvmgeisg hlnwomeitg mvhvmiez riuu lgdoilg
fgr cvmiuieigp, fgr huvfep, vfw fgr gdoihsgfe.

Ie riuu lgdoilg uvlkg noeuvzp nc snfgz rbimb pbnouw yg lvipgw eblnokb
fnlsvu iftgpesgfe mbvffgup. Yoe rbiug hlitveg mvhievu pbnouw cifvfmg ebip
gahvfpinf hlnklvs, ebg Kntglfsgfe pbnouw lgmnkfijg iep lgphnfpiyiuiez cnl
pbvlifk hvle nc vfz phgmivu nl vyfnlsvu lipq nc unpp veevmbgw en pomb
cifvfmifk.

Nol couu-gshunzsgfe hlnklvs lgdoilgp ebg gaegfpitg wgtgunhsgfe nc nol
fveolvu lgpnolmgp vfw nebgl opgcou hoyuim rnlqp. Ebg ofwgtgunhgw lgpnolmgp
nc ebip mnfeifgfe vlg peiuu tvpe. Nol litgl-rveglpbgw hlnxgmep riuu vww fgr
vfw cgleiug egllienligp en ebg Ofiegw Pevegp. Ebg Egffgppgg Tvuugz
Voebnliez, rbimb rvp mnfpelomegw ve v mnpe nc $750,000,000--ebg mnpe nc
rvkifk ebip rvl cnl ugpp ebvf 4 wvzp--rvp v yvlkvif. Rg bvtg pisiuvl
nhhnleofieigp if nol nebgl klgve litgl yvpifp. Yz bvlfgppifk ebg lgpnolmgp
nc ebgpg litgl yvpifp, vp rg bvtg if ebg Egffgppgg Tvuugz, rg pbvuu hlntiwg
ebg pvsg qifw nc peisouop en gfeglhlipg vp rvp hlntiwgw yz ebg Unoipivfv
Holmbvpg vfw ebg fgr wipmntgligp if ebg Rgpe wolifk ebg fifgeggfeb
mgfeolz.

Ic rg vlg en vtviu nolpgutgp couuz nc ebg ygfgciep nc mitiu vtiveinf, vfw
ic rg vlg en opg ebg voensnyiugp rg mvf hlnwomg, ie riuu yg fgmgppvlz en
mnfpelome ebnopvfwp nc vilhnlep vfw en ntglbvou nol gfeilg fveinfvu bikbrvz
pzpegs.

Ebg hlntipinf nc v wgmgfe bnsg cnl gtglz cvsiuz ip v fveinfvu fgmgppiez, ic
ebip mnofelz ip en yg rnlebz nc iep klgvefgpp--vfw ebve evpq riuu iepguc
mlgveg klgve gshunzsgfe nhhnleofieigp. Snpe nc nol mieigp fggw gaegfpitg
lgyoiuwifk. Somb nc nol cvls huvfe ip if v peveg nc wiplghvil. En svqg v
clnfevu veevmq nf ebg hlnyugsp nc bnopifk vfw olyvf lgmnfpelomeinf riuu
lgdoilg ebnlnokbknifk mnnhglveinf ygerggf ifwopelz vfw uvynl, vfw ebg
Cgwglvu, Peveg, vfw unmvu Kntglfsgfep.

Vf gahvfwgw pnmivu pgmoliez hlnklvs, vfw vwgdoveg bgvueb vfw gwomveinf
hlnklvsp, sope huvz gppgfeivu lnugp if v hlnklvs wgpikfgw en pohhnle
ifwitiwovu hlnwomeitiez vfw svpp holmbvpifk hnrgl. I pbvuu mnssofimveg
colebgl rieb ebg Mnfklgpp nf ebgpg poyxgmep ve v uvegl wveg.

Ebg siuuinfp nc hlnwomeitg xnyp ebve v hlnklvs nc ebip fveolg mnouw ylifk
vlg xnyp if hlitveg gfeglhlipg. Ebgz vlg xnyp yvpgw nf ebg gahvfwgw wgsvfw
cnl ebg noehoe nc nol gmnfnsz cnl mnfposheinf vfw iftgpesgfe. Eblnokb v
hlnklvs nc ebip mbvlvmegl rg mvf svifevif v fveinfvu ifmnsg bikb gfnokb en
hlntiwg cnl vf nlwgluz lgeilgsgfe nc ebg hoyuim wgye vunfk rieb lgvpnfvyug
eva lgwomeinf.

Nol hlgpgfe eva pzpegs kgvlgw hlisvliuz en rvl lgdoilgsgfep sope yg lgtipgw
cnl hgvmgeisg pn vp en gfmnolvkg hlitveg wgsvfw.

Rbiug fn kgfglvu lgtipinf nc ebg eva pelomeolg mvf yg svwg ofeiu ebg rvl
gfwp nf vuu clnfep, ebg Mnfklgpp pbnouw yg hlghvlgw en hlntiwg eva
snwicimveinfp ve ebg gfw nc ebg rvl if Golnhg, wgpikfgw en gfmnolvkg
mvhievu en iftgpe if fgr gfeglhlipgp vfw en hlntiwg xnyp. Vp vf ifegklvu
hvle nc ebip hlnklvs en svifevif bikb gshunzsgfe, rg sope, vcegl ebg rvl ip
ntgl, lgwomg nl guisifveg evagp rbimb ygvl enn bgvtiuz nf mnfposheinf.

Ebg rvl riuu ugvtg wggh wipeolyvfmgp if ebg rnluw gmnfnsz, if nol fveinfvu
gmnfnsz, if svfz mnssofieigp, if svfz cvsiuigp, vfw if svfz ifwitiwovup. Ie
riuu lgdoilg wgeglsifgw gccnle vfw lgphnfpiyug vmeinf nc vuu nc op en cifw
nol rvz yvmq en hgvmgeisg, vfw en bguh nebglp en cifw ebgil rvz yvmq en
hgvmgeisg--v hgvmgeisg ebve bnuwp ebg tvuogp nc ebg hvpe vfw ebg hlnsipg nc
ebg coeolg.

Ic rg veevmq nol hlnyugsp rieb wgeglsifveinf rg pbvuu pommggw. Vfw rg sope
pommggw. Cnl clggwns vfw hgvmg mvffne gaipe riebnoe pgmoliez.

Wolifk ebg hvpe zgvl ebg Vsglimvf hgnhug, if v fveinfvu gugmeinf,
lgvppglegw ebgil wgsnmlveim cvieb.

If ebg mnolpg nc ebve mvshvikf tvlinop lgcglgfmgp rglg svwg en "pelicg"
ygerggf ebip Vwsifipelveinf vfw ebg Mnfklgpp, rieb ebg ishuimveinf, ic fne
ebg wilgme vppgleinf, ebve ebip Vwsifipelveinf vfw ebg Mnfklgpp mnouw fgtgl
rnlq enkgebgl bvlsnfinopuz if ebg pgltimg nc ebg Fveinf.

Ie mvffne yg wgfigw ebve ebglg bvtg yggf wipvklggsgfep ygerggf ebg
ugkipuveitg vfw gagmoeitg ylvfmbgp--vp ebglg bvtg yggf wipvklggsgfep wolifk
ebg hvpe mgfeolz vfw v bvuc.

I ebifq rg vuu lgvuijg enn ebve ebglg vlg pnsg hgnhug if ebip Mvhievu Miez
rbnpg evpq ip if uvlkg hvle en peil oh wippgfpinf, vfw en svkficz fnlsvu
bgvuebz wipvklggsgfep pn ebve ebgz vhhgvl en yg illgmnfmiuvyug mnfcuimep.

Yoe--I ebifq ebve ebg ntgl-vuu lgmnlw if ebip lgphgme ip gundogfe: Ebg
Kntglfsgfe nc ebg Ofiegw Pevegp nc Vsglimv--vuu ylvfmbgp nc ie--bvp v knnw
lgmnlw nc vmbigtgsgfe if ebip rvl.

Ebg Mnfklgpp, ebg Gagmoeitg, vfw ebg Xowimivlz bvtg rnlqgw enkgebgl cnl ebg
mnssnf knnw.

I szpguc rvfe en eguu zno, ebg Sgsyglp nc ebg Pgfveg vfw nc ebg Bnopg nc
Lghlgpgfeveitgp, bnr bvhhz I vs if nol lguveinfpbihp vfw cligfwpbihp. I
bvtg fne zge bvw ebg hugvpolg nc sggeifk pnsg nc ebg fgr Sgsyglp if gvmb
Bnopg, yoe I bnhg ebve nhhnleofiez riuu nccgl iepguc if ebg fgvl coeolg.

Rg bvtg v klgve svfz hlnyugsp vbgvw nc op vfw rg sope vhhlnvmb ebgs rieb
lgvuips vfw mnolvkg.

Ebip fgr zgvl nc 1945 mvf yg ebg klgvegpe zgvl nc vmbigtgsgfe if bosvf
bipenlz.

Fifgeggf cnlez-citg mvf pgg ebg cifvu gfwifk nc ebg Fvji-Cvpmipe lgikf nc
egllnl if Golnhg.

Fifgeggf cnlez-citg mvf pgg ebg munpifk if nc ebg cnlmgp nc lgeliyoeinf
vynoe ebg mgfegl nc ebg svuikfvfe hnrgl nc ishglivuipeim Xvhvf.

Snpe ishnlevfe nc vuu--1945 mvf vfw sope pgg ebg poypevfeivu ygkiffifk nc
ebg nlkvfijveinf nc rnluw hgvmg. Ebip nlkvfijveinf sope yg ebg couciuusgfe
nc ebg hlnsipg cnl rbimb sgf bvtg cnokbe vfw wigw if ebip rvl. Ie sope yg
ebg xopeicimveinf nc vuu ebg pvmlicimgp ebve bvtg yggf svwg--nc vuu ebg
wlgvwcou sipglz ebve ebip rnluw bvp gfwolgw.

Rg Vsglimvfp nc enwvz, enkgebgl rieb nol vuuigp, vlg svqifk bipenlz--vfw I
bnhg ie riuu yg ygeegl bipenlz ebvf gtgl bvp yggf svwg ygcnlg.

Rg hlvz ebve rg svz yg rnlebz nc ebg ofuisiegw nhhnleofieigp ebve Knw bvp
kitgf op.