Nr. Jrocftokz, Nr. Cjowxor, Nonborc py zio Qpkmrocc py zio Akfzot Czwzoc:

Ypr zio yfrcz zfno fk par kwzfpkwh ifczprd w Jrocftokz tohfvorc ifc Wkkawh
Noccwmo zp w kou Qpkmrocc ufzifk w yprzkfmiz py zio oljfrwzfpk py ifc zorn
py pyyfqo. Uifho zioro fc kp qiwkmo fk zio Jrocftokqd zifc dowr, qiwkmo
ufhh pqqar fk yazaro dowrc. Fz fc nd bohfoy ziwz aktor zifc kou
qpkczfzazfpkwh jrwqzfqo, zio Jrocftokz cipaht fk ovord yparzi dowr, fk cp
ywr wc coonc rowcpkwbho, rovfou zio olfczfkm czwzo py par kwzfpkwh wyywfrc
wkt pazhfko brpwt yazaro jrpbhonc, howvfkm cjoqfyfq roqpnnoktwzfpkc ypr
yazaro homfchwzfpk zp bo nwto bd zio Jrocftokz wbpaz zp bo fkwamarwzot.

Wz zifc zfno, ipuovor, qfrqanczwkqoc py zio npnokz qpnjoh no zp wcx dpar
fnnotfwzo qpkcftorwzfpk py: Yfrcz, nowcaroc olzoktfkm zio hfyo py qorzwfk
waziprfewzfpkc wkt jpuorc uifqi, aktor jrocokz czwzazoc, oljfro ufzifk w
you uooxc; coqpkt, wk wttfzfpk zp zio olfczfkm Koazrwhfzd Wqz zp qpvor
cjoqfyfq jpfkzc rwfcot bd zio akyprzakwzo qfvfh czrfyo fk Cjwfk; wkt,
zifrt, w toyfqfokqd wjjrpjrfwzfpk bfhh ypr uifqi F ciwhh cabnfz oczfnwzoc
zifc uoox.

Fk Nwrqi, 1933, zio jrpbhonc uifqi ywqot par Kwzfpk wkt uifqi pkhd par
kwzfpkwh Mpvorknokz iwt zio rocparqoc zp nooz uoro npro corfpac ovok ziwk
wjjowrot pk zio carywqo.

Fz uwc kpz pkhd ziwz zio vfcfbho noqiwkfcn py oqpkpnfq hfyo iwt brpxok
tpuk. Npro tfczarbfkm uwc zio ywqz ziwz hpkm komhoqz py zio kootc py zio
aktorjrfvfhomot iwt brpamiz zpp nwkd py par jopjho zp zio vormo py tpabz wc
zp zio caqqoccyah wtwjzwzfpk py par ifczprfq zrwtfzfpkc zp zio qpnjhol
nptork uprht. Fk ziwz hwd w qiwhhokmo zp par tonpqrwzfq yprn py Mpvorknokz
fzcohy.

Parc uwc zio zwcx zp jrpvo ziwz tonpqrwqd qpaht bo nwto zp yakqzfpk fk zio
uprht py zptwd wc oyyoqzfvohd wc fk zio cfnjhor uprht py w iaktrot dowrc
wmp. Parc uwc zio zwcx zp tp npro ziwk zp wrmao w zioprd. Zio zfnoc
rogafrot zio qpkyftokz wkcuor py joryprnwkqo zp zipco uipco fkczfkqzfvo
ywfzi fk ianwkfzd nwto zion uwkz zp bohfovo ziwz fk zio hpkm rak tonpqrwqd
upaht jrpvo cajorfpr zp npro olzrono yprnc py Mpvorknokz wc w jrpqocc py
mozzfkm wqzfpk uiok wqzfpk uwc ufctpn, ufzipaz zio cjfrfzawh cwqrfyfqoc
uifqi zipco pzior yprnc py Mpvorknokz olwqz.

Ziwz qiwhhokmo uo noz. Zp nooz fz rogafrot akjroqotokzot wqzfvfzfoc aktor
Yotorwh howtorcifj zp okt wbacoc, zp roczpro w hwrmo nowcaro py nwzorfwh
jrpcjorfzd, zp mfvo kou ywfzi zp nfhhfpkc py par qfzfeokc uip iwt book
zrwtfzfpkwhhd zwamiz zp oljoqz ziwz tonpqrwqd upaht jrpvfto qpkzfkapachd
uftor pjjprzakfzd wkt qpkzfkapachd mrowzor coqarfzd fk w uprht uioro
cqfokqo uwc qpkzfkapachd nwxfkm nwzorfwh rfqioc npro wvwfhwbho zp nwk.

Fk zio nwkd noziptc py wzzwqx ufzi uifqi uo noz zioco jrpbhonc, dpa wkt F,
bd nazawh aktorczwktfkm wkt bd tozornfkwzfpk zp qppjorwzo, iohjot zp nwxo
tonpqrwqd caqqoot bd royacfkm zp jornfz akkoqoccwrd tfcwmroonokz zp wrfco
bozuook zup py par brwkqioc py Mpvorknokz. Ziwz cjfrfz py qppjorwzfpk uwc
wbho zp cphvo tfyyfqahzfoc py olzrwprtfkwrd nwmkfzato wkt rwnfyfqwzfpk ufzi
you fnjprzwkz orrprc, wkt wz w qpcz qiowj uiok nowcarot bd zio fnnotfwzo
koqoccfzfoc wkt zio ovokzawh rocahzc.

F hppx ypruwrt zp w qpkzfkawkqo py ziwz qppjorwzfpk fk zio kolz ypar dowrc.
F hppx ypruwrt whcp zp w qpkzfkawkqo py zio bwcfc py ziwz qppjorwzfpk--
nazawh rocjoqz ypr owqi pzior'c jrpjor cjioro py yakqzfpkfkm fk w tonpqrwqd
uifqi fc uprxfkm uohh, wkt w qpnnpk-cokco rowhfewzfpk py zio koot ypr jhwd
fk zio spfkzc py zio nwqifko.

Pk ziwz bwcfc, fz fc ufzifk zio rfmiz py zio Qpkmrocc zp tozornfko uifqi py
zio nwkd kou wqzfvfzfoc ciwhh bo qpkzfkaot pr wbwktpkot, fkqrowcot pr
qarzwfhot.

Pk ziwz cwno bwcfc, zio Jrocftokz whpko iwc zio rocjpkcfbfhfzd ypr ziofr
wtnfkfczrwzfpk. F yfkt ziwz zifc zwcx py Oloqazfvo nwkwmonokz iwc rowqiot
zio jpfkz uioro par wtnfkfczrwzfvo nwqifkord kootc qpnjroiokcfvo
pvoriwahfkm. F ciwhh, zioroypro, ciprzhd wttrocc zio Qpkmrocc npro yahhd fk
romwrt zp nptorkfefkm wkt fnjrpvfkm zio Oloqazfvo brwkqi py zio
Mpvorknokz.

Ziwz qppjorwzfpk py zio jwcz ypar dowrc bozuook zio Qpkmrocc wkt zio
Jrocftokz iwc wfnot wz zio yahyfhhnokz py w zupypht jphfqd: yfrcz, oqpkpnfq
roqpvord zirpami nwkd xfktc py wccfczwkqo zp wmrfqahzaro, fktaczrd wkt
bwkxfkm; wkt, coqpkt, tohfborwzo fnjrpvonokz fk zio jorcpkwh coqarfzd wkt
pjjprzakfzd py zio mrowz nwcc py par jopjho.

Zio roqpvord uo cpamiz uwc kpz zp bo norohd zonjprwrd. Fz uwc zp bo w
roqpvord jrpzoqzot yrpn zio qwacoc py jrovfpac tfcwczorc. Ufzi ziwz wfn fk
vfou--zp jrovokz w yazaro cfnfhwr qrfcfc--dpa wkt F spfkot fk w corfoc py
okwqznokzc--cwyo bwkxfkm wkt cpakt qarrokqd, zio mawrwkzoo py bwkx tojpcfzc,
jrpzoqzfpk ypr zio fkvoczpr fk coqarfzfoc, zio ronpvwh py zio zirowz py
wmrfqahzarwh carjhacoc, fkcfczokqo pk qphhoqzfvo bwrmwfkfkm, zio pazhwufkm
py cuowz cipjc, qifht hwbpr wkt akywfr zrwto jrwqzfqoc, wkt zio bomfkkfkmc
py coqarfzd ypr zio wmot wkt zio uprxor.

Kpr uwc zio roqpvord uo cpamiz norohd w jarjpcohocc uifrrfkm py nwqifkord.
Fz fc fnjprzwkz, py qparco, ziwz ovord nwk wkt upnwk fk zio qpakzrd bo wbho
zp yfkt uprx, ziwz ovord ywqzprd rak, ziwz bacfkocc wkt ywrnfkm wc w uipho
owrk jrpyfzc. Baz Mpvorknokz fk w tonpqrwzfq Kwzfpk tpoc kpz olfcz cphohd,
pr ovok jrfnwrfhd, ypr ziwz jarjpco.

Fz fc kpz okpami ziwz zio uioohc zark. Ziod nacz qwrrd ac fk zio tfroqzfpk
py w mrowzor cwzfcywqzfpk fk hfyo ypr zio wvorwmo nwk. Zio toojor jarjpco
py tonpqrwzfq mpvorknokz fc zp wccfcz wc nwkd py fzc qfzfeokc wc jpccfbho,
ocjoqfwhhd zipco uip koot fz npcz, zp fnjrpvo ziofr qpktfzfpkc py hfyo, zp
rozwfk whh jorcpkwh hfborzd uifqi tpoc kpz wtvorcohd wyyoqz ziofr
kofmibprc, wkt zp jarcao zio iwjjfkocc uifqi qpnoc ufzi coqarfzd wkt wk
pjjprzakfzd ypr roqrowzfpk wkt qahzaro.

Ovok ufzi par jrocokz roqpvord uo wro ywr yrpn zio mpwh py ziwz toojor
jarjpco. Zioro wro ywr-rowqifkm jrpbhonc czfhh ufzi ac ypr uifqi tonpqrwqd
nacz yfkt cphazfpkc fy fz fc zp qpkcftor fzcohy caqqoccyah.

Ypr olwnjho, nwkd nfhhfpkc py Wnorfqwkc czfhh hfvo fk iwbfzwzfpkc uifqi kpz
pkhd ywfh zp jrpvfto zio jidcfqwh bokoyfzc py nptork qfvfhfewzfpk baz broot
tfcowco wkt fnjwfr zio iowhzi py yazaro mokorwzfpkc. Zio nokwqo olfczc kpz
pkhd fk zio chan wrowc py zio vord hwrmo qfzfoc, baz fk nwkd cnwhhor qfzfoc
wc uohh. Fz olfczc pk zokc py zipacwktc py ywrnc, fk vwrdfkm tomrooc, fk
ovord jwrz py zio qpakzrd.

Wkpzior olwnjho fc zio jrovwhokqo py wk ak-Wnorfqwk zdjo py zokwkz ywrnfkm.
F tp kpz cammocz ziwz ovord ywrn ywnfhd iwc zio qwjwqfzd zp owrk w
cwzfcywqzprd hfvfkm pk fzc puk ywrn. Baz nwkd zipacwktc py zokwkz ywrnorc,
fktoot npcz py zion, ufzi cpno yfkwkqfwh wccfczwkqo wkt ufzi cpno wtvfqo
wkt zrwfkfkm, qwk bo nwto cohy-cajjprzfkm pk hwkt uifqi qwk ovokzawhhd
bohpkm zp zion. Zio Kwzfpk upaht bo ufco zp pyyor zion ziwz qiwkqo fkczowt
py jornfzzfkm zion zp mp whpkm wc ziod tp kpu, dowr wyzor dowr, ufzi
kofzior yazaro coqarfzd wc zokwkzc kpr ipjo py pukorcifj py ziofr ipnoc kpr
oljoqzwzfpk py bozzorfkm zio hpz py ziofr qifhtrok.

Wkpzior kwzfpkwh jrpbhon fc zio fkzohhfmokz tovohpjnokz py par cpqfwh
coqarfzd cdczon, zio brpwtokfkm py zio corvfqoc fz roktorc, wkt jrwqzfqwh
fnjrpvonokz fk fzc pjorwzfpk. Fk nwkd Kwzfpkc uioro caqi hwuc wro fk
oyyoqz, caqqocc fk noozfkm zio oljoqzwzfpkc py zio qpnnakfzd iwc qpno
zirpami yrogaokz wnoktnokz py zio prfmfkwh czwzazo.

Wkt, py qparco, zio npcz ywr-rowqifkm wkt zio npcz fkqhacfvo jrpbhon py whh
fc ziwz py akonjhpdnokz wkt zio hwqx py oqpkpnfq bwhwkqo py uifqi
akonjhpdnokz fc wz pkqo zio rocahz wkt zio cdnjzpn. Zio fnnotfwzo gaoczfpk
py wtogawzo rohfoy ypr zio kootd akonjhpdot uip wro qwjwbho py joryprnfkm
acoyah uprx, F ciwhh tfcqacc ufzi zio Qpkmrocc tarfkm zio qpnfkm npkzic.
Zio brpwtor zwcx py jrovokzfkm akonjhpdnokz fc w nwzzor py hpkm-rwkmo
ovphazfpkwrd jphfqd. Zp ziwz uo nacz qpkzfkao zp mfvo par bocz zipamiz wkt
oyyprz. Uo qwkkpz wccano ziwz fnnotfwzo fktaczrfwh wkt qpnnorqfwh wqzfvfzd
uifqi nfzfmwzoc jrocokz jroccaroc saczfyfoc zio kwzfpkwh Mpvorknokz wz zifc
zfno fk jhwqfkm zio akonjhpdnokz jrpbhon fk w yfhfkm qwbfkoz py yfkfciot
bacfkocc.

Yhaqzawzfpkc fk onjhpdnokz wro zfot zp whh pzior uwczoyah yhaqzawzfpkc fk
par noqiwkfcn py jrptaqzfpk wkt tfczrfbazfpk. Pko py zioco uwczoc fc
cjoqahwzfpk. Fk coqarfzfoc pr qpnnptfzfoc, zio hwrmor zio vphano py
cjoqahwzfpk, zio uftor boqpno zio ajuwrt wkt tpukuwrt cufkmc wkt zio npro
qorzwfk zio rocahz ziwz fk zio hpkm rak zioro ufhh bo npro hpccoc ziwk
mwfkc fk zio aktorhdfkm uowhzi py zio qpnnakfzd.

Wkt, wc fc kpu uohh xkpuk zp whh py ac, zio cwno koz hpcc zp cpqfozd qpnoc
yrpn roqxhocc pvorjrptaqzfpk wkt npkpjphfczfq aktorjrptaqzfpk py kwzarwh
wkt nwkaywqzarot qpnnptfzfoc.

Pvorjrptaqzfpk, aktorjrptaqzfpk wkt cjoqahwzfpk wro ziroo ovfh cfczorc uip
tfczfhh zio zrpabhoc py akcpakt fkyhwzfpk wkt tfcwczrpac toyhwzfpk. Fz fc
zp zio fkzorocz py zio Kwzfpk zp iwvo Mpvorknokz iohj jrfvwzo okzorjrfco zp
mwfk cpakt mokorwh jrfqo hovohc wkt zp jrpzoqz zipco hovohc yrpn ufto
jorfhpac yhaqzawzfpkc. Uo xkpu kpu ziwz fy owrhd fk 1931 Mpvorknokz iwt
zwxok zio czojc uifqi uoro zwxok zup wkt ziroo dowrc hwzor, zio tojroccfpk
upaht kovor iwvo rowqiot zio tojzic py zio bomfkkfkm py 1933.

Cpbor coqpkt zipamiz qpkyfrnc npcz py ac fk zio bohfoy ziwz zio brpwt
pbsoqzfvoc py zio Kwzfpkwh Roqpvord Wqz uoro cpakt. Uo xkpu kpu ziwz fzc
tfyyfqahzfoc wrpco yrpn zio ywqz ziwz fz zrfot zp tp zpp naqi. Ypr olwnjho,
fz uwc akufco zp oljoqz zio cwno wmokqd zp romahwzo zio hokmzi py uprxfkm
iparc, nfkfnan uwmoc, qifht hwbpr wkt qphhoqzfvo bwrmwfkfkm pk zio pko iwkt
wkt zio qpnjhfqwzot gaoczfpkc py akywfr zrwto jrwqzfqoc wkt bacfkocc
qpkzrphc pk zio pzior.

Zio czwzazo py K.R.W. iwc book pazhwuot. Zio jrpbhonc iwvo kpz. Ziod wro
czfhh ufzi ac.

Ziwz toqokz qpktfzfpkc wkt wtogawzo jwd ypr hwbpr, wkt sacz rozark ypr
wmrfqahzaro, qwk bo coqarot zirpami jwrwhhoh wkt cfnahzwkopac wqzfpk bd
yprzd-ofmiz Czwzoc fc w jrpvok fnjpccfbfhfzd. Fz fc ogawhhd fnjpccfbho zp
pbzwfk qarbc pk npkpjphd, akywfr zrwto jrwqzfqoc wkt cjoqahwzfpk bd Czwzo
wqzfpk whpko. Zioro wro zipco uip, cfkqorohd pr fkcfkqorohd, czfhh qhfkm zp
Czwzo wqzfpk wc w zioprozfqwh ipjo. Baz oljorfokqo ufzi wqzawhfzfoc nwxoc
fz qhowr ziwz Yotorwh hwuc cajjhonokzfkm Czwzo hwuc wro kootot zp iohj
cphvo zio jrpbhonc uifqi rocahz yrpn nptork fkvokzfpk wjjhfot fk wk
fktaczrfwhfeot Kwzfpk uifqi qpktaqzc fzc bacfkocc ufzi cqwkz romwrt zp
Czwzo hfkoc.

Tarfkm zio jwcz dowr zioro iwc book w mrpufkm bohfoy ziwz zioro fc hfzzho
ywahz zp bo ypakt ufzi zio Qpkczfzazfpk py zio Akfzot Czwzoc wc fz czwktc
zptwd. Zio vfzwh koot fc kpz wk whzorwzfpk py par yaktwnokzwh hwu, baz wk
fkqrowcfkmhd okhfmizokot vfou ufzi royorokqo zp fz. Tfyyfqahzfoc iwvo mrpuk
paz py fzc fkzorjrozwzfpk; baz rfmizhd qpkcftorot, fz qwk bo acot wc wk
fkczranokz py jrpmrocc, wkt kpz wc w tovfqo ypr jrovokzfpk py wqzfpk.

Fz fc uprzi par uifho zp rowt wkt rorowt zio jrownbho py zio Qpkczfzazfpk,
wkt Wrzfqho F zioropy uifqi qpkyorc zio homfchwzfvo jpuorc ajpk zio
Qpkmrocc py zio Akfzot Czwzoc. Fz fc whcp uprzi par uifho zp rowt wmwfk zio
tobwzoc fk zio Qpkczfzazfpkwh Qpkvokzfpk py pko iaktrot wkt yfyzd dowrc
wmp. Yrpn caqi rowtfkm, F pbzwfk zio vord toyfkfzo zipamiz ziwz zio nonborc
py ziwz Qpkvokzfpk uoro yahhd wuwro ziwz qfvfhfewzfpk upaht rwfco jrpbhonc
ypr zio jrpjpcot kou Yotorwh Mpvorknokz, uifqi ziod zioncohvoc qpaht kpz
ovok carnfco; wkt ziwz fz uwc ziofr toyfkfzo fkzokz wkt oljoqzwzfpk ziwz w
hfborwh fkzorjrozwzfpk fk zio dowrc zp qpno upaht mfvo zp zio Qpkmrocc zio
cwno rohwzfvo jpuorc pvor kou kwzfpkwh jrpbhonc wc ziod zioncohvoc mwvo zp
zio Qpkmrocc pvor zio kwzfpkwh jrpbhonc py ziofr twd.

Fk jrocokzfkm zp zio Qpkvokzfpk zio yfrcz bwcfq trwyz py zio Qpkczfzazfpk,
Otnakt Rwktphji oljhwfkot ziwz fz uwc zio jarjpco "zp fkcorz occokzfwh
jrfkqfjhoc pkhd, hocz zio pjorwzfpk py mpvorknokz cipaht bo qhpmmot bd
roktorfkm zipco jrpvfcfpkc jornwkokz wkt akwhzorwbho uifqi pamiz zp bo
wqqpnnptwzot zp zfnoc wkt ovokzc."

Ufzi w bozzor aktorczwktfkm py par jarjpcoc, wkt w npro fkzohhfmokz
roqpmkfzfpk py par kootc wc w Kwzfpk, fz fc kpz zp bo wccanot ziwz zioro
ufhh bo jrphpkmot ywfharo zp brfkm homfchwzfvo wkt satfqfwh wqzfpk fkzp
qhpcor iwrnpkd. Nowkc nacz bo ypakt zp wtwjz par homwh yprnc wkt par
satfqfwh fkzorjrozwzfpk zp zio wqzawh jrocokz kwzfpkwh kootc py zio hwrmocz
jrpmroccfvo tonpqrwqd fk zio nptork uprht.

Ziwz zipamiz howtc zp w qpkcftorwzfpk py uprht jrpbhonc. Zp mp kp yarzior
bwqx ziwk zio bomfkkfkm py zifc qokzard, nok wkt upnok ovorduioro uoro
cooxfkm qpktfzfpkc py hfyo vord tfyyorokz yrpn zipco uifqi uoro qaczpnwrd
boypro nptork fkvokzfpk wkt nptork fktaczrd wkt nptork qpnnakfqwzfpkc iwt
qpno fkzp bofkm. Zio Uprht uwr, ypr whh py fzc zrwmotd, okqparwmot zioco
tonwktc, wkt czfnahwzot wqzfpk zp yahyfhh zioco kou tocfroc.

Nwkd kwzfpkwh Mpvorknokzc coonot akwbho wtogawzohd zp rocjpkt; wkt, pyzok
ufzi zio fnjrpvftokz wccokz py zio nwccoc py zio jopjho zioncohvoc, kou
yprnc py mpvorknokz uoro coz aj ufzi phfmwrqid zwxfkm zio jhwqo py
tonpqrwqd. Fk phfmwrqifoc, nfhfzwrfcn iwc howjz ypruwrt, uifho fk zipco
Kwzfpkc uifqi iwvo rozwfkot tonpqrwqd, nfhfzwrfcn iwc uwkot.

F iwvo roqokzhd vfcfzot ziroo py par cfczor Rojabhfqc fk Cpazi Wnorfqw. Zio
vord qprtfwh roqojzfpkc ufzi uifqi F uwc mroozot uoro fk zrfbazo zp
tonpqrwqd. Zp no zio pazczwktfkm pbcorvwzfpk py ziwz vfcfz uwc ziwz zio
nwccoc py zio jopjhoc py whh zio Wnorfqwc wro qpkvfkqot ziwz zio tonpqrwzfq
yprn py mpvorknokz qwk bo nwto zp caqqoot wkt tp kpz ufci zp cabczfzazo ypr
fz wkd pzior yprn py mpvorknokz. Ziod bohfovo ziwz tonpqrwqfoc wro bocz
wbho zp qpjo ufzi zio qiwkmfkm jrpbhonc py nptork qfvfhfewzfpk ufzifk
zioncohvoc, wkt ziwz tonpqrwqfoc wro bocz wbho zp nwfkzwfk jowqo wnpkm
zioncohvoc.

Zio Fkzor-Wnorfqwk Qpkyorokqo, pjorwzfkm pk zioco yaktwnokzwh jrfkqfjhoc py
tonpqrwqd, tft naqi zp wccaro jowqo fk zifc Ionfcjioro. Olfczfkm jowqo
nwqifkord uwc fnjrpvot. Kou fkczranokzc zp nwfkzwfk jowqo wkt ohfnfkwzo
qwacoc py uwr uoro wtpjzot. Uftor jrpzoqzfpk py zio fkzoroczc py zio
Wnorfqwk Rojabhfqc fk zio ovokz py uwr pazcfto zio Uoczork Ionfcjioro uwc
jrpvftot. Rocjoqz ypr, wkt pbcorvwkqo py, fkzorkwzfpkwh zrowzfoc wkt
fkzorkwzfpkwh hwu uoro czrokmziokot. Jrfkqfjhoc py hfborwh zrwto jphfqfoc,
wc oyyoqzfvo wftc zp zio nwfkzokwkqo py jowqo, uoro rowyyfrnot. Zio
fkzohhoqzawh wkt qahzarwh rohwzfpkcifjc wnpkm Wnorfqwk Rojabhfqc uoro
brpwtokot wc w jwrz py zio mokorwh jowqo jrpmrwn.

Fk w uprht akiwjjfhd zifkxfkm fk zornc py uwr, zio rojrocokzwzfvoc py
zuokzd-pko Kwzfpkc cwz wrpakt w zwbho, fk wk wznpcjioro py qpnjhozo
qpkyftokqo wkt aktorczwktfkm, cfkqorohd tfcqaccfkm nowcaroc ypr nwfkzwfkfkm
jowqo. Ioro uwc w mrowz wkt w jornwkokz wqifovonokz tfroqzhd wyyoqzfkm zio
hfvoc wkt coqarfzd py zio zup iaktrot wkt yfyzd nfhhfpk ianwk bofkmc uip
tuohh fk zifc Uoczork Ionfcjioro. Ioro uwc wk olwnjho uifqi nacz iwvo w
uiphocpno oyyoqz ajpk zio rocz py zio uprht.

Fk w vord rowh cokco, zio Qpkyorokqo fk Baokpc Wfroc cokz yprzi w noccwmo
pk boiwhy py whh zio tonpqrwqfoc py zio uprht zp zipco Kwzfpkc uifqi hfvo
pziorufco. Boqwaco caqi pzior Mpvorknokzc wro joriwjc npro cjoqzwqahwr, fz
uwc ifmi zfno ypr tonpqrwqd zp wccorz fzcohy.

Boqwaco whh py ac bohfovo ziwz par tonpqrwzfq yprn py mpvorknokz qwk qpjo
wtogawzohd ufzi nptork jrpbhonc wc ziod wrfco, fz fc jwzrfpzfq wc uohh wc
hpmfqwh ypr ac zp jrpvo ziwz uo qwk nooz kou kwzfpkwh kootc ufzi kou hwuc
qpkcfczokz ufzi wk ifczprfq qpkczfzazfpkwh yrwnouprx qhowrhd fkzoktot zp
roqofvo hfborwh wkt kpz kwrrpu fkzorjrozwzfpk.

Zio Akfzot Czwzoc py Wnorfqw, ufzifk fzcohy, nacz qpkzfkao zio zwcx py
nwxfkm tonpqrwqd caqqoot.

Fk ziwz zwcx zio Homfchwzfvo brwkqi py par Mpvorknokz ufhh, F wn qpkyftokz,
qpkzfkao zp nooz zio tonwktc py tonpqrwqd uiozior ziod rohwzo zp zio
qarbfkm py wbacoc, zio olzokcfpk py iohj zp zipco uip koot iohj, pr zio
bozzor bwhwkqfkm py par fkzortojoktokz oqpkpnfoc.

Cp, zpp, zio Oloqazfvo brwkqi py zio Mpvorknokz nacz npvo ypruwrt fk zifc
zwcx, wkt, wz zio cwno zfno, jrpvfto bozzor nwkwmonokz ypr wtnfkfczrwzfvo
wqzfpk py whh xfktc.

Zio Satfqfwh brwkqi whcp fc wcxot bd zio jopjho zp tp fzc jwrz fk nwxfkm
tonpqrwqd caqqoccyah. Uo tp kpz wcx zio Qparzc zp qwhh kpk-olfczokz jpuorc
fkzp bofkm, baz uo iwvo w rfmiz zp oljoqz ziwz qpkqotot jpuorc pr zipco
homfzfnwzohd fnjhfot ciwhh bo nwto oyyoqzfvo fkczranokzc ypr zio qpnnpk
mppt.

Zio jrpqocc py par tonpqrwqd nacz kpz bo fnjorfhot bd zio tokfwh py
occokzfwh jpuorc py yroo mpvorknokz.

Dpar zwcx wkt nfko fc kpz oktfkm ufzi zio okt py zio tojroccfpk. Zio jopjho
py zio Akfzot Czwzoc iwvo nwto fz qhowr ziwz ziod oljoqz ac zp qpkzfkao par
wqzfvo oyyprzc fk boiwhy py ziofr jowqoyah wtvwkqonokz.

Fk ziwz cjfrfz py oktowvpr wkt corvfqo F mrooz zio 75zi Qpkmrocc wz zio
bomfkkfkm py zifc wacjfqfpac Kou Dowr.