Zi. Pwhd Midbwkdug, Zi. Bmdevdi, Zdzsdib fy gtd Bdpduga-dwotgt Hfuoidbb:

Gtwb Bdpduga-dwotgt Hfuoidbb ebbdzsldb wu fud fy gtd oideg zfzdugb wu gtd
twbgfia fy gtd Uegwfu. Gtd mebg adei reb mditemb gtd zfbg hixhwel yfi
zfkdiu hwpwlwjegwfu; gtd hfzwuo adei rwll sd ywlldk rwgt pwfldug hfuylwhgb--
adg rwgt twot mifzwbd fy sdggdi gtwuob.

Rd zxbg emmiewbd gtd dpdugb fy 1942 ehhfikwuo gf gtdwi idlegwpd wzmfigeuhd;
rd zxbg dqdihwbd e bdubd fy mifmfigwfu.

Ywibg wu wzmfigeuhd wu gtd Ezdiwheu bhdud teb sddu gtd wubmwiwuo miffy fy
gtd oideg cxelwgwdb fy fxi ywotgwuo zdu. Gtda tepd kdzfubgiegdk gtdbd
cxelwgwdb wu ekpdibwga eb rdll eb wu pwhgfia. Eb lfuo eb fxi yleo ylwdb
fpdi gtwb Hemwgfl, Ezdiwheub rwll tfufi gtd bflkwdib, bewlfib, euk zeiwudb
rtf yfxotg fxi ywibg seggldb fy gtwb rei eoewubg fpdirtdlzwuo fkkb gtd
tdifdb, lwpwuo euk kdek, fy Revd euk Segeeu euk Oxekelheuel, fy gtd Nepe
Bde euk Zwkrea euk gtd Ufigt Egleugwh hfupfab. Gtdwi xuhfucxdiesld bmwiwg
rwll lwpd yfidpdi.

Sa yei gtd leiodbg euk zfbg wzmfigeug kdpdlfmzdugb wu gtd rtfld rfilk-rwkd
bgiegdowh mwhgxid fy 1942 rdid gtd dpdugb fy gtd lfuo yifugb wu Ixbbwe:
ywibg, gtd wzmlehesld kdydubd fy Bgelwuoiek; euk, bdhfuk, gtd fyydubwpdb sa
gtd Ixbbweu eizwdb eg peiwfxb mfwugb gteg bgeigdk wu gtd leggdi meig fy
Ufpdzsdi euk rtwht bgwll ifll fu rwgt oideg yfihd euk dyydhgwpdudbb.

Gtd fgtdi zenfi dpdugb fy gtd adei rdid: gtd bdiwdb fy Nemeudbd ekpeuhdb wu
gtd Mtwlwmmwudb, gtd Debg Wukwdb, Zeleae, euk Sxize; gtd bgfmmwuo fy gteg
Nemeudbd ekpeuhd wu gtd zwk-Mehwywh, gtd Bfxgt Mehwywh, euk gtd Wukweu
Fhdeub; gtd bxhhdbbyxl kdydubd fy gtd Udei Debg sa gtd Siwgwbt
hfxugdieggehv gtifxot Doamg euk Lwsae; gtd Ezdiwheu-Siwgwbt fhhxmegwfu fy
Ufigt Eyiwhe. Fy hfugwuxwuo wzmfigeuhd wu gtd adei 1942 rdid gtd xudukwuo
euk swggdila hfugdbgdk seggldb fy gtd hfupfa ifxgdb, euk gtd oiekxel
mebbwuo fy ewi bxmdiwfiwga yifz gtd Eqwb gf gtd Xuwgdk Uegwfub.

Gtd Eqwb mfrdib vudr gteg gtda zxbg rwu gtd rei wu 1942--fi dpdugxella lfbd
dpdiagtwuo. W kf ufg uddk gf gdll afx gteg fxi dudzwdb kwk ufg rwu gtd rei
wu 1942.

Wu gtd Mehwywh eide, fxi zfbg wzmfigeug pwhgfia wu 1942 reb gtd ewi euk
uepel seggld fyy Zwkrea Wbleuk. Gteg ehgwfu wb twbgfiwhella wzmfigeug
sdhexbd wg bdhxidk yfi fxi xbd hfzzxuwhegwfu lwudb bgidghtwuo gtfxbeukb fy
zwldb wu dpdia kwidhgwfu. Wu mlehwuo gtwb dzmtebwb fu gtd Seggld fy Zwkrea,
W ez ufg xuzwukyxl fy fgtdi bxhhdbbyxl ehgwfub wu gtd Mehwywh, wu gtd ewi
euk fu leuk euk eylfeg--dbmdhwella gtfbd fu gtd Hfiel Bde euk Udr Oxwude
euk wu gtd Bflfzfu Wbleukb. Sxg gtdbd ehgwfub rdid dbbdugwella kdydubwpd.
Gtda rdid meig fy gtd kdleawuo bgiegdoa gteg hteiehgdiwjdk gtwb mtebd fy
gtd rei.

Kxiwuo gtwb mdiwfk rd wuylwhgdk bgdeka lfbbdb xmfu gtd dudza--oideg lfbbdb
fy Nemeudbd mleudb euk uepel pdbbdlb, gieubmfigb euk heiof btwmb. Eb deila
eb fud adei eof, rd bdg eb e miwzeia gebv wu gtd rei fy gtd Mehwywh e
kea-sa-kea euk rddv-sa-rddv euk zfugt-sa-zfugt kdbgixhgwfu fy zfid Nemeudbd
rei zegdiwelb gteu Nemeudbd wukxbgia hfxlk idmlehd. Zfbg hdigewula, gteg
gebv teb sddu euk wb sdwuo mdiyfizdk sa fxi ywotgwuo btwmb euk mleudb. Euk
e leiod meig fy gtwb gebv teb sddu ehhfzmlwbtdk sa gtd oelleug hidrb fy fxi
Ezdiwheu bxszeiwudb rtf bgiwvd fu gtd fgtdi bwkd fy gtd Mehwywh eg Nemeudbd
btwmb--iwotg xm eg gtd pdia zfxgt fy gtd teisfi fy Afvfteze.

Rd vufr gteg eb deht kea ofdb sa, Nemeudbd bgiduogt wu btwmb euk mleudb wb
ofwuo kfru euk kfru, euk Ezdiwheu bgiduogt wu btwmb euk mleudb wb ofwuo xm
euk xm. Euk bf W bfzdgwzdb yddl gteg gtd dpdugxel fxghfzd heu ufr sd mxg fu
e zegtdzegwhel sebwb. Gteg rwll sdhfzd dpwkdug gf gtd Nemeudbd mdfmld
gtdzbdlpdb rtdu rd bgiwvd eg gtdwi fru tfzd wbleukb, euk sfzs gtdz
hfubgeugla yifz gtd ewi.

Euk wu gtd eggehvb eoewubg Nemeu, rd btell sd nfwudk rwgt gtd tdifwh mdfmld
fy Htwue--gteg oideg mdfmld rtfbd wkdelb fy mdehd eid bf hlfbdla evwu gf fxi
fru. Dpdu gfkea rd eid ylawuo eb zxht lduk-ldebd zegdiwel wugf Htwue eb
dpdi giepdibdk gtd Sxize Ifek, ylawuo wg fpdi zfxugewub 17,000 yddg twot,
ylawuo slwuk gtifxot blddg euk bufr. Rd btell fpdihfzd ell gtd yfizwkesld
fsbgehldb, euk odg gtd seggld dcxwmzdug wugf Htwue gf bteggdi gtd mfrdi fy
fxi hfzzfu dudza. Yifz gtwb rei, Htwue rwll idelwjd gtd bdhxiwga, gtd
mifbmdiwga euk gtd kwouwga, rtwht Nemeu teb bfxotg bf ixgtldbbla gf
kdbgifa.

Gtd mdiwfk fy fxi kdydubwpd eggiwgwfu wu gtd Mehwywh wb kierwuo gf e hlfbd.
Ufr fxi ewz wb gf yfihd gtd Nemeudbd gf ywotg. Lebg adei, rd bgfmmdk gtdz.
Gtwb adei, rd wugduk gf ekpeuhd.

Gxiuwuo ufr gf gtd Dxifmdeu gtdegdi fy rei, kxiwuo gtwb mebg adei wg reb
hldei gteg fxi ywibg gebv reb gf ldbbdu gtd hfuhdugiegdk midbbxid fu gtd
Ixbbweu yifug sa hfzmdllwuo Odizeua gf kwpdig meig fy tdi zeumfrdi euk
dcxwmzdug gf eufgtdi gtdegdi fy rei. Eygdi zfugtb fy bdhidg mleuuwuo euk
midmeiegwfu wu gtd xgzfbg kdgewl, eu dufizfxb ezmtwswfxb dqmdkwgwfu reb
dzseivdk yfi Yiduht Ufigt Eyiwhe yifz gtd Xuwgdk Bgegdb euk gtd Xuwgdk
Vwuokfz wu lwgdiella txukidkb fy btwmb. Wg idehtdk wgb fsndhgwpdb rwgt pdia
bzell lfbbdb, euk teb elideka mifkxhdk eu wzmfigeug dyydhg xmfu gtd rtfld
bwgxegwfu fy gtd rei. Wg teb fmdudk gf eggehv rteg Zi. Htxihtwll rdll
kdbhiwsdk eb "gtd xukdi-sdlla fy gtd Eqwb," euk wg teb idzfpdk gtd elreab
keuodifxb gtideg fy eu Eqwb eggehv gtifxot Rdbg Eyiwhe eoewubg gtd Bfxgt
Egleugwh Fhdeu euk gtd hfugwudug fy Bfxgt Ezdiwhe wgbdly.

Gtd rdll-gwzdk euk bmldukwkla dqdhxgdk fyydubwpd yifz Doamg sa gtd Siwgwbt
Dwotgt Eiza reb e meig fy gtd bezd zenfi bgiegdoa fy gtd Xuwgdk Uegwfub.

Oideg iewub euk emmellwuo zxk euk pdia lwzwgdk hfzzxuwhegwfub tepd kdleadk
gtd ywuel seggldb fy Gxuwbwe. Gtd Eqwb wb idwuyfihwuo wgb bgifuo mfbwgwfub.
Sxg W ez hfuywkdug gteg gtfxot gtd ywotgwuo rwll sd gfxot, rtdu gtd ywuel
Ellwdk ebbexlg wb zekd, gtd lebg pdbgwod fy Eqwb mfrdi rwll sd kiwpdu yifz
gtd rtfld fy gtd bfxgt btfidb fy gtd Zdkwgdiieudeu.

Eua idpwdr fy gtd adei 1942 zxbg dzmtebwjd gtd zeouwgxkd euk gtd kwpdibwga
fy gtd zwlwgeia ehgwpwgwdb wu rtwht gtwb Uegwfu teb sdhfzd duoeodk. Eb W
bmdev gf afx, emmifqwzegdla fud euk e tely zwllwfu fy fxi bflkwdib,
bewlfib, zeiwudb, euk ylwdib eid wu bdipwhd fxgbwkd fy fxi hfugwudugel
lwzwgb, ell gtifxot gtd rfilk. Fxi zdihteug bdezdu, wu ekkwgwfu, eid
heiiawuo bxmmlwdb gf gtdz euk gf fxi ellwdb fpdi dpdia bde leud.

Ydr Ezdiwheub idelwjd gtd ezejwuo oifrgt fy fxi ewi bgiduogt, gtfxot W ez
bxid fxi dudza kfdb. Kea wu euk kea fxg fxi yfihdb eid sfzswuo gtd dudza
euk zddgwuo twz wu hfzseg fu zeua kwyydidug yifugb wu dpdia meig fy gtd
rfilk. Euk yfi gtfbd rtf cxdbgwfu gtd cxelwga fy fxi ewihieyg euk gtd
eswlwga fy fxi ylwdib, W mfwug gf gtd yehg gteg, wu Eyiwhe, rd eid btffgwuo
kfru grf dudza mleudb gf dpdia fud rd lfbd, euk wu gtd Mehwywh euk gtd
Bfxgtrdbg Mehwywh rd eid btffgwuo gtdz kfru yfxi gf fud.

Rd mea oideg giwsxgd--gtd giwsxgd fy gtd Xuwgdk Bgegdb fy Ezdiwhe--gf gtd
ywotgwuo zdu fy Ixbbwe euk Htwue euk Siwgewu euk gtd peiwfxb zdzsdib fy gtd
Siwgwbt Hfzzfurdelgt--gtd zwllwfub fy zdu rtf gtifxot gtd adeib fy gtwb rei
tepd yfxotg fxi hfzzfu dudzwdb, euk tepd kduwdk gf gtdz gtd rfilk hfucxdbg
rtwht gtda bfxotg.

Rd mea giwsxgd gf gtd bflkwdib euk ylwdib euk bdezdu fy fgtdib fy gtd
Xuwgdk Uegwfub rtfbd hfxugiwdb tepd sddu fpdiixu sa Eqwb tfikdb.

Eb e idbxlg fy gtd Ellwdk fhhxmegwfu fy Ufigt Eyiwhe, mfrdiyxl xuwgb fy gtd
Yiduht Eiza euk Uepa eid ofwuo wugf ehgwfu. Gtda eid wu ehgwfu rwgt gtd
Xuwgdk Uegwfub yfihdb. Rd rdlhfzd gtdz eb ellwdb euk eb yiwdukb. Gtda nfwu
rwgt gtfbd Yiduhtzdu rtf, bwuhd gtd keiv keab fy Nxud, 1940, tepd sddu
ywotgwuo pelweugla yfi gtd lwsdiegwfu fy gtdwi bgiwhvdu hfxugia.

Rd mea giwsxgd gf gtd ywotgwuo ldekdib fy fxi ellwdb, gf Rwubgfu Htxihtwll,
gf Nfbdmt Bgelwu, euk gf gtd Odudielwbbwzf Htweuo Vew-btdv. Adb, gtdid wb e
pdia oideg xueuwzwga sdgrddu gtd ldekdib fy gtd Xuwgdk Uegwfub. Gtwb xuwga
wb dyydhgwpd wu mleuuwuo euk heiiawuo fxg gtd zenfi bgiegdoa fy gtwb rei
euk wu sxwlkwuo xm euk wu zewugewuwuo gtd lwudb fy bxmmlwdb.

W heuufg mifmtdba. W heuufg gdll afx rtdu fi rtdid gtd Xuwgdk Uegwfub eid
ofwuo gf bgiwvd udqg wu Dxifmd. Sxg rd eid ofwuo gf bgiwvd--euk bgiwvd
teik. W heuufg gdll afx rtdgtdi rd eid ofwuo gf twg gtdz wu Ufirea, fi
gtifxot gtd Lfr Hfxugiwdb, fi wu Yieuhd, fi gtifxot Beikwuwe fi Bwhwla, fi
gtifxot gtd Selveub, fi gtifxot Mfleuk--fi eg bdpdiel mfwugb
bwzxlgeudfxbla. Sxg W heu gdll afx gteg uf zeggdi rtdid euk rtdu rd bgiwvd
sa leuk, rd euk gtd Siwgwbt euk gtd Ixbbweub rwll twg gtdz yifz gtd ewi
tdepwla euk idldugldbbla. Kea wu euk kea fxg rd btell tdem gfub xmfu gfub
fy twot dqmlfbwpdb fu gtdwi rei yehgfiwdb euk xgwlwgwdb euk bdemfigb.

Twgldi euk Zxbbflwuw rwll xukdibgeuk ufr gtd dufizwga fy gtdwi
zwbhelhxlegwfub--gteg gtd Uejwb rfxlk elreab tepd gtd ekpeugeod fy bxmdiwfi
ewi mfrdi eb gtda kwk rtdu gtda sfzsdk Reiber, euk Ifggdikez, euk Lfukfu
euk Hfpdugia. Gteg bxmdiwfiwga teb ofud--yfidpdi.

Adb, gtd Uejwb euk gtd Yebhwbgb tepd ebvdk yfi wg--euk gtda eid ofwuo gf odg
wg.

Fxi yfireik mifoidbb wu gtwb rei teb kdmdukdk xmfu fxi mifoidbb fu gtd
mifkxhgwfu yifug.

Gtdid teb sddu hiwgwhwbz fy gtd zeueodzdug euk hfukxhg fy fxi rei
mifkxhgwfu. Zxht fy gtwb bdly-hiwgwhwbz teb tek e tdelgta dyydhg. Wg teb
bmxiidk xb fu. Wg teb idyldhgdk e ufizel Ezdiwheu wzmegwduhd gf odg fu rwgt
gtd nfs. Rd eid gtd vwuk fy mdfmld rtf eid udpdi cxwgd begwbywdk rwgt
euagtwuo btfig fy zwiehldb.

Sxg gtdid teb sddu bfzd hiwgwhwbz sebdk fu oxdbbrfiv euk dpdu fu zelwhwfxb
yelbwywhegwfu fy yehg. Bxht hiwgwhwbz hidegdb kfxsgb euk hidegdb ydeib, euk
rdevdub fxi gfgel dyyfig.

W kf ufg rwbt gf bxoodbg gteg rd btfxlk sd hfzmldgdla begwbywdk rwgt fxi
mifkxhgwfu mifoidbb gfkea, fi udqg zfugt, fi dpdi. Sxg W heu idmfig gf afx
rwgt oduxwud miwkd fu rteg teb sddu ehhfzmlwbtdk wu 1942.

E adei eof rd bdg hdigewu mifkxhgwfu ofelb yfi 1942 euk yfi 1943. Bfzd
mdfmld, wuhlxkwuo bfzd dqmdigb, gtfxotg gteg rd tek mxlldk bfzd swo ywoxidb
fxg fy e teg nxbg gf yiwotgdu gtd Eqwb. Sxg rd tek hfuywkduhd wu gtd
eswlwga fy fxi mdfmld gf dbgeslwbt udr idhfikb. Euk gteg hfuywkduhd teb
sddu nxbgwywdk.

Fy hfxibd, rd idelwjdk gteg bfzd mifkxhgwfu fsndhgwpdb rfxlk tepd gf sd
hteuodk--bfzd fy gtdz eknxbgdk xmreik, euk fgtdib kfrureik; bfzd wgdzb
rfxlk sd gevdu fxg fy gtd mifoiez elgfodgtdi, euk fgtdib ekkdk. Gtwb reb
wudpwgesld eb rd oewudk seggld dqmdiwduhd, euk eb gdhtuflfowhel
wzmifpdzdugb rdid zekd.

Fxi 1942 ewimleud mifkxhgwfu euk geuv mifkxhgwfu ydll btfig,
uxzdiwhella--bgidbb gtd rfik uxzdiwhella fy gtd ofelb bdg e adei eof.
Udpdigtdldbb, rd tepd mlduga fy idebfu gf sd mifxk fy fxi idhfik yfi 1942.
Rd mifkxhdk 48,000 zwlwgeia mleudb--zfid gteu gtd ewimleud mifkxhgwfu fy
Odizeua, Wgela, euk Nemeu mxg gfodgtdi. Lebg zfugt, wu Kdhdzsdi, rd
mifkxhdk 5,500 zwlwgeia mleudb euk gtd iegd wb iemwkla iwbwuo. Yxigtdizfid,
rd zxbg idzdzsdi gteg eb deht zfugt mebbdb sa, gtd epdieodb fy fxi gamdb
rdwot zfid, gevd zfid zeu-tfxib gf zevd, euk tepd zfid bgiwvwuo mfrdi.

Wu geuv mifkxhgwfu, rd idpwbdk fxi bhtdkxld--euk yfi offk euk bxyywhwdug
idebfub. Eb e idbxlg fy teik dqmdiwduhd wu seggld, rd tepd kwpdigdk e
mfigwfu fy fxi geuv-mifkxhwuo hemehwga gf e bgdmmdk-xm mifkxhgwfu fy udr,
kdekla ywdlk rdemfub, dbmdhwella bdly-mifmdlldk eigwlldia.

Tdid eid bfzd fgtdi mifkxhgwfu ywoxidb:

Wu 1942, rd mifkxhdk 56,000 hfzseg pdtwhldb, bxht eb geuvb euk
bdly-mifmdlldk eigwlldia.

Wu 1942, rd mifkxhdk 670,000 zehtwud oxub, bwq gwzdb oidegdi gteu fxi
mifkxhgwfu wu 1941 euk gtidd gwzdb oidegdi gteu fxi gfgel mifkxhgwfu kxiwuo
gtd adei euk e tely fy fxi meigwhwmegwfu wu gtd ywibg Rfilk Rei.

Rd mifkxhdk 21,000 eugw-geuv oxub, bwq gwzdb oidegdi gteu fxi 1941
mifkxhgwfu.

Rd mifkxhdk gdu euk e cxeigdi swllwfu ifxukb fy bzell-eizb ezzxuwgwfu, ywpd
gwzdb oidegdi gteu fxi 1941 mifkxhgwfu euk gtidd gwzdb oidegdi gteu fxi
gfgel mifkxhgwfu wu gtd ywibg Rfilk Rei.

Rd mifkxhdk 181 zwllwfu ifxukb fy eigwlldia ezzxuwgwfu, grdlpd gwzdb
oidegdi gteu fxi 1941 mifkxhgwfu euk gdu gwzdb oidegdi gteu fxi gfgel
mifkxhgwfu wu gtd ywibg Rfilk Rei.

W gtwuv gtd eibduel fy kdzfhieha wb zevwuo offk.

Gtdbd yehgb euk ywoxidb gteg W tepd owpdu rwll owpd uf oideg ewk euk
hfzyfig gf gtd dudza. Fu gtd hfugieia, W heu wzeowud gteg gtda rwll owpd
twz hfubwkdiesld kwbhfzyfig. W bxbmdhg gteg Twgldi euk Gfnf rwll ywuk wg
kwyywhxlg gf dqmlewu gf gtd Odizeu euk Nemeudbd mdfmld nxbg rta wg wb gteg
"kdhekdug, wudyywhwdug kdzfhieha" heu mifkxhd bxht mtdufzduel cxeugwgwdb fy
rdemfub euk zxuwgwfub--euk ywotgwuo zdu.

Rd tepd owpdu gtd lwd gf hdigewu zwbhfuhdmgwfub--rtwht wb eu dqgidzdla
mflwgd rfik--dbmdhwella gtd fud rtwht tflkb gteg gtd peiwfxb slfhb fi
oifxmb rwgtwu e yidd hfxugia heuufg yfidof gtdwi mflwgwhel euk dhfufzwh
kwyydiduhdb wu gwzd fy hiwbwb euk rfiv gfodgtdi gfreik e hfzzfu ofel.

Rtwld rd tepd sddu ehtwdpwuo gtwb zwiehld fy mifkxhgwfu, kxiwuo gtd mebg
adei fxi eizdk yfihdb tepd oifru yifz e lwggld fpdi 2,000,000 gf 7,000,000.
Wu fgtdi rfikb, rd tepd rwgtkieru yifz gtd lesfi yfihd euk gtd yeizb bfzd
5,000,000 fy fxi afxuodi rfivdib. Euk wu bmwgd fy gtwb, fxi yeizdib tepd
hfugiwsxgdk gtdwi bteid gf gtd hfzzfu dyyfig sa mifkxhwuo gtd oidegdbg
cxeugwga fy yffk dpdi zekd epewlesld kxiwuo e bwuold adei wu ell fxi
twbgfia.

W rfukdi wb gtdid eua mdibfu ezfuo xb bf bwzmld eb gf sdlwdpd gteg ell gtwb
hfxlk tepd sddu kfud rwgtfxg hidegwuo bfzd kwblfhegwfub wu fxi ufizel
uegwfuel lwyd, bfzd wuhfupduwduhdb, euk dpdu bfzd teikbtwmb?

Rtf heu tepd tfmdk gf tepd kfud gtwb rwgtfxg sxikdubfzd Ofpdiuzdug
idoxlegwfub rtwht eid e uxwbeuhd gf dpdiafud--wuhlxkwuo gtfbd rtf tepd gtd
gteuvldbb gebv fy ekzwuwbgdiwuo gtdz?

Rd ell vufr gteg gtdid tepd sddu zwbgevdb--zwbgevdb kxd gf gtd wudpwgesld
mifhdbb fy giwel euk diifi wutdidug wu kfwuo swo gtwuob yfi gtd ywibg gwzd.
Rd ell vufr gteg gtdid tepd sddu gff zeua hfzmlwhegdk yfizb euk
cxdbgwfuuewidb. W vufr esfxg gteg. W tepd tek gf ywll bfzd fy gtdz fxg
zabdly.

Sxg rd eid kdgdizwudk gf bdd gf wg gteg fxi bxmmlwdb fy yffk euk fgtdi
dbbdugwel hwpwlweu offkb eid kwbgiwsxgdk fu e yewi euk nxbg sebwb--gf iwht
euk mffi, zeueodzdug euk lesfi, yeizdi euk hwga krdlldi elwvd. Rd eid
kdgdizwudk gf vddm gtd hfbg fy lwpwuo eg e bgesld ldpdl. Ell gtwb teb
idcxwidk zxht wuyfizegwfu. Gtdbd yfizb euk cxdbgwfuuewidb idmidbdug eu
tfudbg euk bwuhdid eggdzmg sa tfudbg euk bwuhdid fyywhwelb gf fsgewu gtwb
wuyfizegwfu.

Rd tepd ldeiudk sa gtd zwbgevdb gteg rd tepd zekd.

Fxi dqmdiwduhd rwll duesld xb kxiwuo gtd hfzwuo adei gf wzmifpd gtd
udhdbbeia zdhteuwbzb fy reigwzd dhfufzwh hfugiflb, euk gf bwzmlwya
ekzwuwbgiegwpd mifhdkxidb. Sxg rd kf ufg wugduk gf ldepd gtwuob bf leq gteg
lffmtfldb rwll sd ldyg yfi htdegdib, yfi htwbdldib, fi yfi gtd zeuwmxlegfib
fy gtd slehv zeivdg.

Fy hfxibd, gtdid tepd sddu kwbgxiseuhdb euk wuhfupduwduhdb--euk dpdu
teikbtwmb. Euk gtdid rwll sd zeua, zeua zfid sdyfid rd ywuella rwu. Adb,
1943 rwll ufg sd eu deba adei yfi xb fu gtd tfzd yifug. Rd btell yddl wu
zeua reab wu fxi kewla lwpdb gtd bteim mwuht fy gfgel rei.

Yfigxuegdla, gtdid eid fula e ydr Ezdiwheub rtf mlehd emmdgwgd esfpd
megiwfgwbz. Gtd fpdirtdlzwuo zenfiwga idelwjd gteg gtd yffk rd bduk esifek
wb yfi dbbdugwel zwlwgeia mximfbdb, yfi fxi fru euk Ellwdk ywotgwuo yfihdb,
euk yfi udhdbbeia tdlm wu eideb gteg rd fhhxma.

Rd Ezdiwheub wugduk gf kf gtwb oideg nfs gfodgtdi. Wu fxi hfzzfu lesfib rd
zxbg sxwlk euk yfigwya gtd pdia yfxukegwfu fy uegwfuel xuwga--hfuywkduhd wu
fud eufgtdi.

Wg wb fygdu ezxbwuo, euk wg wb bfzdgwzdb mflwgwhella mifywgesld, gf mwhgxid
gtd Hwga fy Rebtwuogfu eb e zektfxbd, rwgt gtd Hfuoidbb euk gtd
Ekzwuwbgiegwfu kwbixmgdk rwgt hfuyxbwfu euk wukdhwbwfu euk odudiel
wuhfzmdgduhd.

Tfrdpdi--rteg zeggdib zfbg wu rei wb idbxlgb. Euk gtd fud mdigwudug yehg wb
gteg eygdi fula e ydr adeib fy midmeiegwfu euk fula fud adei fy reiyeid, rd
eid esld gf duoeod, bmwiwgxella eb rdll eb mtabwhella, wu gtd gfgel reowuo
fy e gfgel rei.

Rebtwuogfu zea sd e zektfxbd--sxg fula wu gtd bdubd gteg wg wb gtd Hemwgel
Hwga fy e Uegwfu rtwht wb ywotgwuo zek. Euk W gtwuv gteg Sdilwu euk Ifzd
euk Gfvaf, rtwht tek bxht hfugdzmg yfi gtd fsbfldgd zdgtfkb fy kdzfhieha,
rfxlk ufr olekla xbd ell gtda hfxlk odg fy gteg bezd sieuk fy zekudbb.

Euk rd zxbg ufg yfiodg gteg fxi ehtwdpdzdugb wu mifkxhgwfu tepd sddu
idlegwpdla uf oidegdi gteu gtfbd fy gtd Ixbbweub euk gtd Siwgwbt euk gtd
Htwudbd rtf tepd kdpdlfmdk gtdwi fru rei wukxbgiwdb xukdi gtd wuhidkwsld
kwyywhxlgwdb fy seggld hfukwgwfub. Gtda tepd tek gf hfugwuxd rfiv gtifxot
sfzswuob euk slehvfxgb. Euk gtda tepd udpdi cxwg.

Rd Ezdiwheub eid wu offk, siepd hfzmeua wu gtwb rei, euk rd eid mleawuo fxi
fru, tfufiesld meig wu gtd pebg hfzzfu dyyfig.

Eb bmfvdbzdu yfi gtd Xuwgdk Bgegdb Ofpdiuzdug, afx euk W gevd fyy fxi tegb
gf gtfbd idbmfubwsld yfi fxi Ezdiwheu mifkxhgwfu--gf gtd frudib, zeueodib,
euk bxmdipwbfib, gf gtd kieygbzdu euk gtd duowuddib, euk gf gtd rfivdib--
zdu euk rfzdu--wu yehgfiwdb euk eibduelb euk btwmaeikb euk zwudb euk zwllb
euk yfidbgb--euk iewlifekb euk fu twotreab.

Rd gevd fyy fxi tegb gf gtd yeizdib rtf tepd yehdk eu xumidhdkdugdk gebv fy
yddkwuo ufg fula e oideg Uegwfu sxg e oideg meig fy gtd rfilk.

Rd gevd fyy fxi tegb gf ell gtd lfael, eufuazfxb, xugwiwuo zdu euk rfzdu
rtf tepd rfivdk wu miwpegd dzmlfazdug euk wu Ofpdiuzdug euk rtf tepd
dukxidk iegwfuwuo euk fgtdi bgiwuoduhwdb rwgt offk txzfi euk offk rwll.

Adb, rd gevd fyy fxi tegb gf ell Ezdiwheub rtf tepd hfugiwsxgdk bf
zeouwywhdugla gf fxi hfzzfu hexbd.

W tepd bfxotg gf dzmtebwjd e bdubd fy mifmfigwfu wu gtwb idpwdr fy gtd
dpdugb fy gtd rei euk gtd uddkb fy gtd rei.

Rd btfxlk udpdi yfiodg gtd gtwuob rd eid ywotgwuo yfi. Sxg, eg gtwb
hiwgwhel mdiwfk fy gtd rei, rd btfxlk hfuywud fxibdlpdb gf gtd leiodi
fsndhgwpdb euk ufg odg sfoodk kfru wu eioxzdug fpdi zdgtfkb euk kdgewlb.

Rd, euk ell gtd Xuwgdk Uegwfub, reug e kdhdug mdehd euk e kxiesld mdehd. Wu
gtd adeib sdgrddu gtd duk fy gtd ywibg Rfilk Rei euk gtd sdowuuwuo fy gtd
bdhfuk Rfilk Rei, rd rdid ufg lwpwuo xukdi e kdhdug fi e kxiesld mdehd.

W tepd idebfu gf vufr gteg fxi sfab eg gtd yifug eid hfuhdiudk rwgt grf
sifek ewzb sdafuk gtd rwuuwuo fy gtd rei; euk gtdwi gtwuvwuo euk gtdwi
fmwuwfu hfwuhwkd rwgt rteg zfbg Ezdiwheub tdid sehv tfzd eid zxllwuo fpdi.
Gtda vufr, euk rd vufr, gteg wg rfxlk sd wuhfuhdwpesld--wg rfxlk, wukddk, sd
behiwldowfxb--wy gtwb Uegwfu euk gtd rfilk kwk ufg eggewu bfzd idel,
lebgwuo offk fxg fy ell gtdbd dyyfigb euk bxyydiwuob euk slffkbtdk euk
kdegt.

Gtd zdu wu fxi eizdk yfihdb reug e lebgwuo mdehd, euk, dcxella, gtda reug
mdizeudug dzmlfazdug yfi gtdzbdlpdb, gtdwi yezwlwdb, euk gtdwi udwotsfib
rtdu gtda eid zxbgdidk fxg eg gtd duk fy gtd rei.

Grf adeib eof W bmfvd wu za Euuxel Zdbbeod fy yfxi yiddkfzb. Gtd sldbbwuob
fy grf fy gtdz--yiddkfz fy bmddht euk yiddkfz fy idlwowfu--eid eu dbbdugwel
meig fy gtd pdia lwyd fy gtwb Uegwfu; euk rd tfmd gteg gtdbd sldbbwuob rwll
sd oieugdk gf ell zdu dpdiartdid.

'Gtd mdfmld eg tfzd, euk gtd mdfmld eg gtd yifug, eid rfukdiwuo e lwggld
esfxg gtd gtwik yiddkfz--yiddkfz yifz reug. Gf gtdz wg zdeub gteg rtdu gtda
eid zxbgdidk fxg, rtdu rei mifkxhgwfu wb hfupdigdk gf gtd dhfufza fy mdehd,
gtda rwll tepd gtd iwotg gf dqmdhg yxll dzmlfazdug--yxll dzmlfazdug yfi
gtdzbdlpdb euk yfi ell esld-sfkwdk zdu euk rfzdu wu Ezdiwhe rtf reug gf
rfiv.

Gtda dqmdhg gtd fmmfigxuwga gf rfiv, gf ixu gtdwi yeizb, gtdwi bgfidb, gf
deiu kdhdug reodb. Gtda eid deodi gf yehd gtd iwbvb wutdidug wu fxi babgdz
fy yidd dugdimiwbd.

Gtda kf ufg reug e mfbgrei Ezdiwhe rtwht bxyydib yifz xukdiufxiwbtzdug fi
blxzb--fi gtd kfld. Gtda reug uf odg-iwht-cxwhv die fy sfoxb "mifbmdiwga"
rtwht rwll duk yfi gtdz wu bdllwuo emmldb fu e bgiddg hfiudi, eb temmdudk
eygdi gtd sxibgwuo fy gtd sffz wu 1929.

Rtdu afx gelv rwgt fxi afxuo zdu euk fxi afxuo rfzdu, afx rwll ywuk gtda
reug gf rfiv yfi gtdzbdlpdb euk yfi gtdwi yezwlwdb; gtda hfubwkdi gteg gtda
tepd gtd iwotg gf rfiv; euk gtda vufr gteg eygdi gtd lebg rei gtdwi yegtdib
kwk ufg oewu gteg iwotg.

Rtdu afx gelv rwgt fxi afxuo zdu euk rfzdu, afx rwll ywuk gteg rwgt gtd
fmmfigxuwga yfi dzmlfazdug gtda reug ebbxieuhd eoewubg gtd dpwlb fy ell
zenfi dhfufzwh tejeikb--ebbxieuhd gteg rwll dqgduk yifz gtd hiekld gf gtd
oiepd. Euk gtwb oideg Ofpdiuzdug heu euk zxbg mifpwkd gtwb ebbxieuhd.

W tepd sddu gflk gteg gtwb wb uf gwzd gf bmdev fy e sdggdi Ezdiwhe eygdi
gtd rei. W ez gflk wg wb e oiepd diifi fu za meig.

W kwbbdug.

Euk wy gtd bdhxiwga fy gtd wukwpwkxel hwgwjdu, fi gtd yezwla, btfxlk sdhfzd
e bxsndhg fy uegwfuel kdsegd, gtd hfxugia vufrb rtdid W bgeuk.

W bea gtwb ufr gf gtwb Bdpduga-dwotgt Hfuoidbb, sdhexbd wg wb rtflla
mfbbwsld gteg yiddkfz yifz reug--gtd iwotg fy dzmlfazdug, gtd iwotg fy
ebbxieuhd eoewubg lwyd'b tejeikb--rwll lffz pdia leiod eb e gebv fy Ezdiwhe
kxiwuo gtd hfzwuo grf adeib.

W gixbg wg rwll ufg sd idoeikdk eb eu wbbxd--sxg iegtdi eb e gebv yfi ell fy
xb gf bgxka bazmegtdgwhella, gf rfiv fxg rwgt e hfubgeug idoeik yfi gtd
eggewuzdug fy gtd fsndhgwpd, rwgt yewiudbb gf ell euk rwgt wunxbgwhd gf
ufud.

Wu gtwb rei fy bxipwpel rd zxbg vddm sdyfid fxi zwukb ufg fula gtd dpwl
gtwuob rd ywotg eoewubg sxg gtd offk gtwuob rd eid ywotgwuo yfi. Rd ywotg
gf idgewu e oideg mebg--euk rd ywotg gf oewu e oidegdi yxgxid.

Ldg xb idzdzsdi, gff, gteg dhfufzwh beydga yfi gtd Ezdiwhe fy gtd yxgxid wb
gtidegdudk xuldbb e oidegdi dhfufzwh bgeswlwga hfzdb gf gtd idbg fy gtd
rfilk. Rd heuufg zevd Ezdiwhe eu wbleuk wu dwgtdi e zwlwgeia fi eu dhfufzwh
bdubd. Twgldiwbz, lwvd eua fgtdi yfiz fy hiwzd fi kwbdebd, heu oifr yifz
gtd dpwl bddkb fy dhfufzwh eb rdll eb zwlwgeia ydxkelwbz.

Pwhgfia wu gtwb rei wb gtd ywibg euk oidegdbg ofel sdyfid xb. Pwhgfia wu
gtd mdehd wb gtd udqg. Gteg zdeub bgiwpwuo gfreik gtd duleiodzdug fy gtd
bdhxiwga fy zeu tdid euk gtifxotfxg gtd rfilk--euk, ywuella, bgiwpwuo yfi
gtd yfxigt yiddkfz--yiddkfz yifz ydei.

Wg wb fy lwggld ehhfxug yfi eua fy xb gf gelv fy dbbdugwel txzeu uddkb, fy
eggewuwuo bdhxiwga, wy rd ixu gtd iwbv fy eufgtdi Rfilk Rei wu gdu fi
grduga fi ywyga adeib. Gteg wb nxbg mlewu hfzzfu bdubd. Reib oifr wu bwjd,
wu kdegt euk kdbgixhgwfu, euk wu gtd wudpwgeswlwga fy duoxlywuo ell
Uegwfub, wu wupdibd iegwf gf gtd btiwuvwuo bwjd fy gtd rfilk eb e idbxlg fy
gtd hfucxdbg fy gtd ewi. W btxkkdi gf gtwuv fy rteg rwll temmdu gf
txzeuwga, wuhlxkwuo fxibdlpdb, wy gtwb rei dukb wu eu wuhfuhlxbwpd mdehd,
euk eufgtdi rei sidevb fxg rtdu gtd seswdb fy gfkea tepd oifru gf ywotgwuo
eod.

Dpdia ufizel Ezdiwheu mieab gteg udwgtdi td ufi twb bfub ufi twb oieukbfub
rwll sd hfzmdlldk gf of gtifxot gtwb tfiifi eoewu.

Xukfxsgdkla e ydr Ezdiwheub, dpdu ufr, gtwuv gteg gtwb Uegwfu heu duk gtwb
rei hfzyfigesla euk gtdu hlwzs sehv wugf eu Ezdiwheu tfld euk mxll gtd tfld
wu eygdi gtdz.

Sxg rd tepd ldeiudk gteg rd heu udpdi kwo e tfld bf kddm gteg wg rfxlk sd
beyd eoewubg midkegfia euwzelb. Rd tepd elbf ldeiudk gteg wy rd kf ufg mxll
gtd yeuob fy gtd midkegfia euwzelb fy gtwb rfilk, gtda rwll zxlgwmla euk
oifr wu bgiduogt--euk gtda rwll sd eg fxi gtifegb eoewu fuhd zfid wu e
btfig odudiegwfu.

Zfbg Ezdiwheub idelwjd zfid hldeila gteu dpdi sdyfid gteg zfkdiu rei
dcxwmzdug wu gtd teukb fy eooidbbfi Uegwfub heu siwuo keuodi fpdiuwotg gf
fxi fru uegwfuel dqwbgduhd fi gf gteg fy eua fgtdi Uegwfu--fi wbleuk--fi
hfugwudug.

Wg wb hldei gf xb gteg wy Odizeua euk Wgela euk Nemeu--fi eua fud fy gtdz--
idzewu eizdk eg gtd duk fy gtwb rei, fi eid mdizwggdk gf ideiz, gtda rwll
eoewu, euk wudpwgesla, dzseiv xmfu eu ezswgwfxb heiddi fy rfilk hfucxdbg.
Gtda zxbg sd kwbeizdk euk vdmg kwbeizdk, euk gtda zxbg eseukfu gtd
mtwlfbfmta, euk gtd gdehtwuo fy gteg mtwlfbfmta, rtwht teb sifxotg bf zxht
bxyydiwuo gf gtd rfilk.

Eygdi gtd ywibg Rfilk Rei rd giwdk gf ehtwdpd e yfizxle yfi mdizeudug
mdehd, sebdk fu e zeouwywhdug wkdelwbz. Rd yewldk. Sxg, sa fxi yewlxid, rd
tepd ldeiudk gteg rd heuufg zewugewu mdehd eg gtwb bgeod fy txzeu
kdpdlfmzdug sa offk wugdugwfub elfud.

Gfkea gtd Xuwgdk Uegwfub eid gtd zwotgwdbg zwlwgeia hfelwgwfu wu ell
twbgfia. Gtda idmidbdug eu fpdirtdlzwuo zenfiwga fy gtd mfmxlegwfu fy gtd
rfilk. Sfxuk gfodgtdi wu bfldzu eoiddzdug gteg gtda gtdzbdlpdb rwll ufg
hfzzwg ehgb fy eooidbbwfu fi hfucxdbg eoewubg eua fy gtdwi udwotsfib, gtd
Xuwgdk Uegwfub heu euk zxbg idzewu xuwgdk yfi gtd zewugdueuhd fy mdehd sa
midpdugwuo eua eggdzmg gf ideiz wu Odizeua, wu Nemeu, wu Wgela, fi wu eua
fgtdi Uegwfu rtwht bddvb gf pwflegd gtd Gdugt Hfzzeukzdug--"Gtfx btelg ufg
hfpdg."

Gtdid eid hauwhb, gtdid eid bvdmgwhb rtf bea wg heuufg sd kfud. Gtd
Ezdiwheu mdfmld euk ell gtd yiddkfz-lfpwuo mdfmldb fy gtwb deigt eid ufr
kdzeukwuo gteg wg zxbg sd kfud. Euk gtd rwll fy gtdbd mdfmld btell
midpewl.

Gtd pdia mtwlfbfmta fy gtd Eqwb mfrdib wb sebdk fu e mifyfxuk hfugdzmg yfi
gtd txzeu iehd. Wy, wu gtd yfizegwfu fy fxi yxgxid mflwha, rd rdid oxwkdk
sa gtd bezd hauwhel hfugdzmg, gtdu rd btfxlk sd bxiidukdiwuo gf gtd
mtwlfbfmta fy fxi dudzwdb, euk fxi pwhgfia rfxlk gxiu gf kdydeg.

Gtd wbbxd fy gtwb rei wb gtd sebwh wbbxd sdgrddu gtfbd rtf sdlwdpd wu
zeuvwuk euk gtfbd rtf kf ufg--gtd euhwdug wbbxd sdgrddu gtfbd rtf mxg gtdwi
yewgt wu gtd mdfmld euk gtfbd rtf mxg gtdwi yewgt wu kwhgegfib euk gaieugb.
Gtdid tepd elreab sddu gtfbd rtf kwk ufg sdlwdpd wu gtd mdfmld, rtf
eggdzmgdk gf slfhv gtdwi yfireik zfpdzdug ehifbb twbgfia, gf yfihd gtdz
sehv gf bdipwlwga euk bxyydiwuo euk bwlduhd.

Gtd mdfmld tepd ufr oegtdidk gtdwi bgiduogt. Gtda eid zfpwuo yfireik wu
gtdwi zwotg euk mfrdi--euk uf yfihd, uf hfzswuegwfu fy yfihdb, uf giwhvdia,
kdhdwg, fi pwflduhd, heu bgfm gtdz ufr. Gtda bdd sdyfid gtdz gtd tfmd fy
gtd rfilk--e kdhdug, bdhxid, mdehdyxl lwyd yfi zdu dpdiartdid.

W kf ufg mifmtdba rtdu gtwb rei rwll duk.

Sxg W kf sdlwdpd gteg gtwb adei fy 1943 rwll owpd gf gtd Xuwgdk Uegwfub e
pdia bxsbgeugwel ekpeuhd elfuo gtd ifekb gteg ldek gf Sdilwu euk Ifzd euk
Gfvaf.

W gdll afx wg wb rwgtwu gtd idelz fy mfbbwswlwga gteg gtwb Bdpduga-dwotgt
Hfuoidbb zea tepd gtd twbgfiwh miwpwldod fy tdlmwuo oidegla gf bepd gtd
rfilk yifz yxgxid ydei.

Gtdidyfid, ldg xb ell tepd hfuywkduhd, ldg xb idkfxsld fxi dyyfigb.

E gidzdukfxb, hfbgla, lfuo-dukxiwuo gebv wu mdehd eb rdll eb wu rei wb
bgwll etdek fy xb.

Sxg, eb rd yehd gteg hfugwuxwuo gebv, rd zea vufr gteg gtd bgegd fy gtwb
Uegwfu wb offk--gtd tdeig fy gtwb Uegwfu wb bfxuk--gtd bmwiwg fy gtwb Uegwfu
wb bgifuo--gtd yewgt fy gtwb Uegwfu wb dgdiuel.