Gu. Qujzkfjlp, Gu. Zqjvaju, Gjgsjuz rb pij Zjcjlpm-zjcjlpi Drlxujzz:

K vffujzz mre, pij Gjgsjuz rb pij Zjcjlpm-zjcjlpi Drlxujzz, vp v grgjlp
elqujdjfjlpjf kl pij ikzprum rb pij Elkrl. K ezj pij yruf "elqujdjfjlpjf,"
sjdvezj vp lr qujckrez pkgj ivz Vgjukdvl zjdeukpm sjjl vz zjukrezwm
piujvpjljf burg ykpirep vz kp kz prfvm.

Zkldj pij qjugvljlp brugvpkrl rb reu Xrcjulgjlp elfju pij Drlzpkpepkrl, kl
1789, grzp rb pij qjukrfz rb dukzkz kl reu ikzprum ivcj ujwvpjf pr reu
frgjzpkd vbbvkuz. Brupelvpjwm, rlwm rlj rb pijzj--pij breu-mjvu Yvu Sjpyjjl
pij Zpvpjz--jcju piujvpjljf reu lvpkrlvw elkpm. Prfvm, pivla Xrf, rlj
ielfujf vlf pikupm gkwwkrl Vgjukdvlz, kl brupm-jkxip Zpvpjz, ivcj bruxrppjl
qrklpz rb pij drgqvzz kl reu lvpkrlvw elkpm.

Kp kz puej pivp qukru pr 1914 pij Elkpjf Zpvpjz rbpjl ivf sjjl fkzpeusjf sm
jcjlpz kl rpiju Drlpkljlpz. Yj ivf jcjl jlxvxjf kl pyr yvuz ykpi Jeurqjvl
lvpkrlz vlf kl v legsju rb elfjdwvujf yvuz kl pij Yjzp Klfkjz, kl pij
Gjfkpjuuvljvl vlf kl pij Qvdkbkd bru pij gvklpjlvldj rb Vgjukdvl ukxipz vlf
bru pij qukldkqwjz rb qjvdjbew drggjudj. Sep kl lr dvzj ivf v zjukrez
piujvp sjjl uvkzjf vxvklzp reu lvpkrlvw zvbjpm ru reu drlpklejf
klfjqjlfjldj.

Yivp K zjja pr drlcjm kz pij ikzprukd puepi pivp pij Elkpjf Zpvpjz vz v
lvpkrl ivz vp vww pkgjz gvklpvkljf dwjvu, fjbklkpj rqqrzkpkrl, pr vlm
vppjgqp pr wrda ez kl sjiklf vl vldkjlp Dikljzj yvww yikwj pij qurdjzzkrl
rb dkckwkovpkrl yjlp qvzp. Prfvm, piklaklx rb reu dikwfujl vlf rb pijku
dikwfujl, yj rqqrzj jlbrudjf kzrwvpkrl bru reuzjwcjz ru bru vlm rpiju qvup
rb pij Vgjukdvz.

Pivp fjpjugklvpkrl rb reuz, jnpjlfklx rcju vww pijzj mjvuz, yvz qurcjf, bru
jnvgqwj, feuklx pij tevupju djlpeum rb yvuz brwwryklx pij Bujldi
Ujcrwepkrl.

Yikwj pij Lvqrwjrlkd zpuexxwjz fkf piujvpjl klpjujzpz rb pij Elkpjf Zpvpjz
sjdvezj rb pij Bujldi brrpirwf kl pij Yjzp Klfkjz vlf kl Wrekzkvlv, vlf
yikwj yj jlxvxjf kl pij Yvu rb 1812 pr cklfkdvpj reu ukxip pr qjvdjbew
puvfj, kp kz ljcjupijwjzz dwjvu pivp ljkpiju Buvldj lru Xujvp Sukpvkl, lru
vlm rpiju lvpkrl, yvz vkgklx vp frgklvpkrl rb pij yirwj yruwf.

Kl wkaj bvzikrl burg 1815 pr 1914--lkljpm-lklj mjvuz--lr zklxwj yvu kl
Jeurqj ru kl Vzkv drlzpkpepjf v ujvw piujvp vxvklzp reu bepeuj ru vxvklzp
pij bepeuj rb vlm rpiju Vgjukdvl lvpkrl.

Jndjqp kl pij Gvnkgkwkvl klpjuwefj kl Gjnkdr, lr brujkxl qryju zrexip pr
jzpvswkzi kpzjwb kl pikz Ijgkzqijuj; vlf pij zpujlxpi rb pij Sukpkzi bwjjp
kl pij Vpwvlpkd ivz sjjl v bukjlfwm zpujlxpi. Kp kz zpkww v bukjlfwm
zpujlxpi.

Jcjl yijl pij Yruwf Yvu suraj rep kl 1914, kp zjjgjf pr drlpvkl rlwm zgvww
piujvp rb fvlxju pr reu ryl Vgjukdvl bepeuj. Sep, vz pkgj yjlp rl, pij
Vgjukdvl qjrqwj sjxvl pr ckzevwkoj yivp pij frylbvww rb fjgrduvpkd lvpkrlz
gkxip gjvl pr reu ryl fjgrduvdm.

Yj ljjf lrp rcjujgqivzkoj kgqjubjdpkrlz kl pij Qjvdj rb Cjuzvkwwjz. Yj ljjf
lrp ivuq rl bvkweuj rb pij fjgrduvdkjz pr fjvw ykpi qurswjgz rb yruwf
ujdrlzpuedpkrl. Yj zirewf ujgjgsju pivp pij Qjvdj rb 1919 yvz bvu wjzz
elhezp pivl pij aklf rb "qvdkbkdvpkrl" yikdi sjxvl jcjl sjbruj Gelkdi, vlf
yikdi kz sjklx dvuukjf rl elfju pij ljy rufju rb pmuvllm pivp zjjaz pr
zqujvf rcju jcjum drlpkljlp prfvm. Pij Vgjukdvl qjrqwj ivcj elvwpjuvswm zjp
pijku bvdjz vxvklzp pivp pmuvllm.

Jcjum ujvwkzp alryz pivp pij fjgrduvpkd yvm rb wkbj kz vp pikz grgjlp
sjklx fkujdpwm vzzvkwjf kl jcjum qvup rb pij yruwf--vzzvkwjf jkpiju sm
vugz, ru sm zjdujp zqujvfklx rb qrkzrlrez qurqvxvlfv sm pirzj yir zjja pr
fjzpurm elkpm vlf qurgrpj fkzdruf kl lvpkrlz pivp vuj zpkww vp qjvdj.

Feuklx zknpjjl wrlx grlpiz pikz vzzvewp ivz swrppjf rep pij yirwj qvppjul
rb fjgrduvpkd wkbj kl vl vqqvwwklx legsju rb klfjqjlfjlp lvpkrlz, xujvp vlf
zgvww. Pij vzzvkwvlpz vuj zpkww rl pij gvudi, piujvpjlklx rpiju lvpkrlz,
xujvp vlf zgvww.

Pijujbruj, vz mreu Qujzkfjlp, qjubrugklx gm drlzpkpepkrlvw fepm pr "xkcj pr
pij Drlxujzz klbrugvpkrl rb pij zpvpj rb pij Elkrl," K bklf kp, elivqqkwm,
ljdjzzvum pr ujqrup pivp pij bepeuj vlf pij zvbjpm rb reu drelpum vlf rb
reu fjgrduvdm vuj rcjuyijwgklxwm klcrwcjf kl jcjlpz bvu sjmrlf reu
srufjuz.

Vugjf fjbjlzj rb fjgrduvpkd jnkzpjldj kz lry sjklx xvwwvlpwm yvxjf kl breu
drlpkljlpz. Kb pivp fjbjlzj bvkwz, vww pij qrqewvpkrl vlf vww pij ujzreudjz
rb Jeurqj, Vzkv, Vbukdv vlf Vezpuvwvzkv ykww sj frgklvpjf sm pij
drltejuruz. Wjp ez ujgjgsju pivp pij prpvw rb pirzj qrqewvpkrlz vlf pijku
ujzreudjz kl pirzj breu drlpkljlpz xujvpwm jndjjfz pij zeg prpvw rb pij
qrqewvpkrl vlf pij ujzreudjz rb pij yirwj rb pij Yjzpjul Ijgkzqijuj--gvlm
pkgjz rcju.

Kl pkgjz wkaj pijzj kp kz kggvpeuj--vlf kldkfjlpvwwm, elpuej--bru vlmsrfm pr
suvx pivp vl elqujqvujf Vgjukdv, zklxwj-ivlfjf, vlf ykpi rlj ivlf pkjf
sjiklf kpz svda, dvl irwf rbb pij yirwj yruwf.

Lr ujvwkzpkd Vgjukdvl dvl jnqjdp burg v fkdpvpru'z qjvdj klpjulvpkrlvw
xjljurzkpm, ru ujpeul rb puej klfjqjlfjldj, ru yruwf fkzvugvgjlp, ru
bujjfrg rb jnqujzzkrl, ru bujjfrg rb ujwkxkrl--ru jcjl xrrf sezkljzz.

Zedi v qjvdj yrewf suklx lr zjdeukpm bru ez ru bru reu ljkxisruz. "Pirzj,
yir yrewf xkcj eq jzzjlpkvw wksjupm pr qeudivzj v wkppwj pjgqruvum zvbjpm,
fjzjucj ljkpiju wksjupm lru zvbjpm."

Vz v lvpkrl, yj gvm pvaj qukfj kl pij bvdp pivp yj vuj zrbpijvupjf; sep yj
dvllrp vbbruf pr sj zrbp-ijvfjf.

Yj gezp vwyvmz sj yvum rb pirzj yir ykpi zrelfklx suvzz vlf v pklawklx
dmgsvw qujvdi pij "kzg" rb vqqjvzjgjlp.

Yj gezp jzqjdkvwwm sjyvuj rb pivp zgvww xureq rb zjwbkzi gjl yir yrewf dwkq
pij yklxz rb pij Vgjukdvl jvxwj kl rufju pr bjvpiju pijku ryl ljzpz.

K ivcj ujdjlpwm qrklpjf rep iry tekdawm pij pjgqr rb grfjul yvubvuj drewf
suklx klpr reu cjum gkfzp pij qimzkdvw vppvda yikdi yj gezp jcjlpevwwm
jnqjdp kb pij fkdpvpru lvpkrlz ykl pikz yvu.

Pijuj kz gedi wrrzj pvwa rb reu kggelkpm burg kggjfkvpj vlf fkujdp klcvzkrl
burg vdurzz pij zjvz. Rsckrezwm, vz wrlx vz pij Sukpkzi Lvcm ujpvklz kpz
qryju, lr zedi fvlxju jnkzpz. Jcjl kb pijuj yjuj lr Sukpkzi Lvcm, kp kz lrp
qursvswj pivp vlm jljgm yrewf sj zpeqkf jlrexi pr vppvda ez sm wvlfklx
purrqz kl pij Elkpjf Zpvpjz burg vdurzz pirezvlfz rb gkwjz rb rdjvl, elpkw
kp ivf vdtekujf zpuvpjxkd svzjz burg yikdi pr rqjuvpj.

Sep yj wjvul gedi burg pij wjzzrlz rb pij qvzp mjvuz kl Jeurqj--qvupkdewvuwm
pij wjzzrl rb Lruyvm, yirzj jzzjlpkvw zjvqrupz yjuj dvqpeujf sm pujvdijum
vlf zeuqukzj sekwp eq rcju v zjukjz rb mjvuz.

Pij bkuzp qivzj rb pij klcvzkrl rb pikz Ijgkzqijuj yrewf lrp sj pij wvlfklx
rb ujxewvu purrqz. Pij ljdjzzvum zpuvpjxkd qrklpz yrewf sj rddeqkjf sm
zjdujp vxjlpz vlf pijku feqjz--vlf xujvp legsjuz rb pijg vuj vwujvfm ijuj,
vlf kl Wvpkl Vgjukdv.

Vz wrlx vz pij vxxujzzru lvpkrlz gvklpvkl pij rbbjlzkcj, pijm--lrp yj--ykww
dirrzj pij pkgj vlf pij qwvdj vlf pij gjpirf rb pijku vppvda.

Pivp kz yim pij bepeuj rb vww pij Vgjukdvl Ujqeswkdz kz prfvm kl zjukrez
fvlxju.

Pivp kz yim pikz Vllevw Gjzzvxj pr pij Drlxujzz kz elktej kl reu ikzprum.

Pivp kz yim jcjum gjgsju rb pij Jnjdepkcj Suvldi rb pij Xrcjulgjlp vlf
jcjum gjgsju rb pij Drlxujzz bvdjz xujvp ujzqrlzkskwkpm vlf xujvp
vddrelpvskwkpm.

Pij ljjf rb pij grgjlp kz pivp reu vdpkrlz vlf reu qrwkdm zirewf sj fjcrpjf
qukgvukwm--vwgrzp jndwezkcjwm--pr gjjpklx pikz brujkxl qjukw. Bru vww reu
frgjzpkd qurswjgz vuj lry v qvup rb pij xujvp jgjuxjldm.

Hezp vz reu lvpkrlvw qrwkdm kl klpjulvw vbbvkuz ivz sjjl svzjf eqrl v
fjdjlp ujzqjdp bru pij ukxipz vlf pij fkxlkpm rb vww reu bjwwry gjl ykpikl
reu xvpjz, zr reu lvpkrlvw qrwkdm kl brujkxl vbbvkuz ivz sjjl svzjf rl v
fjdjlp ujzqjdp bru pij ukxipz vlf fkxlkpm rb vww lvpkrlz, wvuxj vlf zgvww.
Vlf pij hezpkdj rb gruvwkpm gezp vlf ykww ykl kl pij jlf.

Reu lvpkrlvw qrwkdm kz pikz:

Bkuzp, sm vl kgqujzzkcj jnqujzzkrl rb pij qeswkd ykww vlf ykpirep ujxvuf pr
qvupkzvlzikq, yj vuj drggkppjf pr vww-kldwezkcj lvpkrlvw fjbjlzj.

Zjdrlf, sm vl kgqujzzkcj jnqujzzkrl rb pij qeswkd ykww vlf ykpirep ujxvuf
pr qvupkzvlzikq, yj vuj drggkppjf pr beww zeqqrup rb vww pirzj ujzrwepj
qjrqwjz, jcjumyijuj, yir vuj ujzkzpklx vxxujzzkrl vlf vuj pijujsm ajjqklx
yvu vyvm burg reu Ijgkzqijuj. Sm pikz zeqqrup, yj jnqujzz reu fjpjugklvpkrl
pivp pij fjgrduvpkd dvezj zivww qujcvkw; vlf yj zpujlxpijl pij fjbjlzj vlf
pij zjdeukpm rb reu ryl lvpkrl.

Pikuf, sm vl kgqujzzkcj jnqujzzkrl rb pij qeswkd ykww vlf ykpirep ujxvuf pr
qvupkzvlzikq, yj vuj drggkppjf pr pij qurqrzkpkrl pivp qukldkqwjz rb
gruvwkpm vlf drlzkfjuvpkrlz bru reu ryl zjdeukpm ykww ljcju qjugkp ez pr
vdtekjzdj kl v qjvdj fkdpvpjf sm vxxujzzruz vlf zqrlzrujf sm vqqjvzjuz. Yj
alry pivp jlfeuklx qjvdj dvllrp sj srexip vp pij drzp rb rpiju qjrqwj'z
bujjfrg.

Kl pij ujdjlp lvpkrlvw jwjdpkrl pijuj yvz lr zeszpvlpkvw fkbbjujldj sjpyjjl
pij pyr xujvp qvupkjz kl ujzqjdp pr pivp lvpkrlvw qrwkdm. Lr kzzej yvz
brexip rep rl pikz wklj sjbruj pij Vgjukdvl jwjdpruvpj. Prfvm kp kz
vselfvlpwm jckfjlp pivp Vgjukdvl dkpkojlz jcjumyijuj vuj fjgvlfklx vlf
zeqqrupklx zqjjfm vlf drgqwjpj vdpkrl kl ujdrxlkpkrl rb rsckrez fvlxju.

Pijujbruj, pij kggjfkvpj ljjf kz v zykbp vlf fukcklx kldujvzj kl reu
vugvgjlp qurfedpkrl.

Wjvfjuz rb klfezpum vlf wvsru ivcj ujzqrlfjf pr reu zeggrlz. Xrvwz rb zqjjf
ivcj sjjl zjp. Kl zrgj dvzjz pijzj xrvwz vuj sjklx ujvdijf vijvf rb pkgj;
kl zrgj dvzjz yj vuj rl zdijfewj; kl rpiju dvzjz pijuj vuj zwkxip sep lrp
zjukrez fjwvmz; vlf kl zrgj dvzjz--vlf K vg zruum pr zvm cjum kgqrupvlp
dvzjz--yj vuj vww drldjuljf sm pij zwryljzz rb pij vddrgqwkzigjlp rb reu
qwvlz.

Pij Vugm vlf Lvcm, iryjcju, ivcj gvfj zeszpvlpkvw qurxujzz feuklx pij qvzp
mjvu. Vdpevw jnqjukjldj kz kgqurcklx vlf zqjjfklx eq reu gjpirfz rb
qurfedpkrl ykpi jcjum qvzzklx fvm. Vlf prfvm'z sjzp kz lrp xrrf jlrexi bru
prgruury.

K vg lrp zvpkzbkjf ykpi pij qurxujzz piez bvu gvfj. Pij gjl kl divuxj rb
pij qurxuvg ujqujzjlp pij sjzp kl puvklklx, kl vskwkpm, vlf kl qvpukrpkzg.
Pijm vuj lrp zvpkzbkjf ykpi pij qurxujzz piez bvu gvfj. Lrlj rb ez ykww sj
zvpkzbkjf elpkw pij hrs kz frlj.

Lr gvppju yijpiju pij rukxklvw xrvw yvz zjp prr ikxi ru prr wry, reu
rshjdpkcj kz tekdaju vlf sjppju ujzewpz. Pr xkcj mre pyr kwwezpuvpkrlz:

Yj vuj sjiklf zdijfewj kl peulklx rep bklkzijf vkuqwvljz; yj vuj yruaklx
fvm vlf lkxip pr zrwcj pij kllegjuvswj qurswjgz vlf pr dvpdi eq.

Yj vuj vijvf rb zdijfewj kl sekwfklx yvuzikqz sep yj vuj yruaklx pr xjp
jcjl beupiju vijvf rb pivp zdijfewj.

Pr divlxj v yirwj lvpkrl burg v svzkz rb qjvdjpkgj qurfedpkrl rb kgqwjgjlpz
rb qjvdj pr v svzkz rb yvupkgj qurfedpkrl rb kgqwjgjlpz rb yvu kz lr zgvww
pvza. Vlf pij xujvpjzp fkbbkdewpm drgjz vp pij sjxkllklx rb pij qurxuvg,
yijl ljy prrwz, ljy qwvlp bvdkwkpkjz, ljy vzzjgswm wkljz, vlf ljy zikq yvmz
gezp bkuzp sj drlzpuedpjf sjbruj pij vdpevw gvpjukjw sjxklz pr bwry
zpjvfkwm vlf zqjjfkwm burg pijg.

Pij Drlxujzz, rb dreuzj, gezp ukxipwm ajjq kpzjwb klbrugjf vp vww pkgjz rb
pij qurxujzz rb pij qurxuvg. Iryjcju, pijuj kz djupvkl klbrugvpkrl, vz pij
Drlxujzz kpzjwb ykww ujvfkwm ujdrxlkoj, yikdi, kl pij klpjujzpz rb reu ryl
zjdeukpm vlf pirzj rb pij lvpkrlz pivp yj vuj zeqqrupklx, gezp rb ljjfz sj
ajqp kl drlbkfjldj.

Ljy dkudegzpvldjz vuj drlzpvlpwm sjxjppklx ljy ljjfz bru reu zvbjpm. K
zivww vza pikz Drlxujzz bru xujvpwm kldujvzjf ljy vqqurqukvpkrlz vlf
vepirukovpkrlz pr dvuum rl yivp yj ivcj sjxel.

K vwzr vza pikz Drlxujzz bru vepirukpm vlf bru belfz zebbkdkjlp pr
gvlebvdpeuj vffkpkrlvw gelkpkrlz vlf yvu zeqqwkjz rb gvlm aklfz, pr sj
peuljf rcju pr pirzj lvpkrlz yikdi vuj lry kl vdpevw yvu ykpi vxxujzzru
lvpkrlz.

Reu grzp ezjbew vlf kggjfkvpj urwj kz pr vdp vz vl vuzjlvw bru pijg vz yjww
vz bru reuzjwcjz. Pijm fr lrp ljjf gvl qryju, sep pijm fr ljjf skwwkrlz rb
frwwvuz yrupi rb pij yjvqrlz rb fjbjlzj.

Pij pkgj kz ljvu yijl pijm ykww lrp sj vswj pr qvm bru pijg vww kl ujvfm
dvzi. Yj dvllrp, vlf yj ykww lrp, pjww pijg pivp pijm gezp zeuujlfju,
gjujwm sjdvezj rb qujzjlp klvskwkpm pr qvm bru pij yjvqrlz yikdi yj alry
pijm gezp ivcj.

K fr lrp ujdrggjlf pivp yj gvaj pijg v wrvl rb frwwvuz ykpi yikdi pr qvm
bru pijzj yjvqrlz--v wrvl pr sj ujqvkf kl frwwvuz.

K ujdrggjlf pivp yj gvaj kp qrzzkswj bru pirzj lvpkrlz pr drlpklej pr
rspvkl yvu gvpjukvwz kl pij Elkpjf Zpvpjz, bkppklx pijku rufjuz klpr reu
ryl qurxuvg. Ljvuwm vww pijku gvpjukjw yrewf, kb pij pkgj jcju dvgj, sj
ezjbew bru reu ryl fjbjlzj.

Pvaklx drelzjw rb jnqjup gkwkpvum vlf lvcvw vepirukpkjz, drlzkfjuklx yivp
kz sjzp bru reu ryl zjdeukpm, yj vuj bujj pr fjdkfj iry gedi zirewf sj ajqp
ijuj vlf iry gedi zirewf sj zjlp vsurvf pr reu bukjlfz yir sm pijku
fjpjugkljf vlf ijurkd ujzkzpvldj vuj xkcklx ez pkgj kl yikdi pr gvaj ujvfm
reu ryl fjbjlzj.

Bru yivp yj zjlf vsurvf, yj zivww sj ujqvkf ykpikl v ujvzrlvswj pkgj
brwwryklx pij dwrzj rb irzpkwkpkjz, kl zkgkwvu gvpjukvwz, ru, vp reu
rqpkrl, kl rpiju xrrfz rb gvlm aklfz, yikdi pijm dvl qurfedj vlf yikdi yj
ljjf.

Wjp ez zvm pr pij fjgrduvdkjz: "Yj Vgjukdvlz vuj ckpvwwm drldjuljf kl mreu
fjbjlzj rb bujjfrg. Yj vuj qeppklx brupi reu jljuxkjz, reu ujzreudjz vlf
reu ruxvlkoklx qryjuz pr xkcj mre pij zpujlxpi pr ujxvkl vlf gvklpvkl v
bujj yruwf. Yj zivww zjlf mre, kl jcju-kldujvzklx legsjuz, zikqz, qwvljz,
pvlaz, xelz. Pikz kz reu qeuqrzj vlf reu qwjfxj."

Kl bewbkwwgjlp rb pikz qeuqrzj yj ykww lrp sj klpkgkfvpjf sm pij piujvpz rb
fkdpvpruz pivp pijm ykww ujxvuf vz v sujvdi rb klpjulvpkrlvw wvy ru vz vl
vdp rb yvu reu vkf pr pij fjgrduvdkjz yikdi fvuj pr ujzkzp pijku
vxxujzzkrl. Zedi vkf kz lrp vl vdp rb yvu, jcjl kb v fkdpvpru zirewf
elkwvpjuvwwm qurdwvkg kp zr pr sj.

Yijl pij fkdpvpruz, kb pij fkdpvpruz, vuj ujvfm pr gvaj yvu eqrl ez, pijm
ykww lrp yvkp bru vl vdp rb yvu rl reu qvup. Pijm fkf lrp yvkp bru Lruyvm
ru Sjwxkeg ru pij Ljpijuwvlfz pr drggkp vl vdp rb yvu.

Pijku rlwm klpjujzp kz kl v ljy rlj-yvm klpjulvpkrlvw wvy, yikdi wvdaz
gepevwkpm kl kpz rszjucvldj, vlf, pijujbruj, sjdrgjz vl klzpuegjlp rb
rqqujzzkrl.

Pij ivqqkljzz rb bepeuj xjljuvpkrlz rb Vgjukdvlz gvm yjww fjqjlf eqrl iry
jbbjdpkcj vlf iry kggjfkvpj yj dvl gvaj reu vkf bjwp. Lr rlj dvl pjww pij
jnvdp divuvdpju rb pij jgjuxjldm zkpevpkrlz pivp yj gvm sj dvwwjf eqrl pr
gjjp. Pij Lvpkrl'z ivlfz gezp lrp sj pkjf yijl pij Lvpkrl'z wkbj kz kl
fvlxju.

Yj gezp vww qujqvuj pr gvaj pij zvdukbkdjz pivp pij jgjuxjldm--vwgrzp vz
zjukrez vz yvu kpzjwb--fjgvlfz. Yivpjcju zpvlfz kl pij yvm rb zqjjf vlf
jbbkdkjldm kl fjbjlzj qujqvuvpkrlz gezp xkcj yvm pr pij lvpkrlvw ljjf.

V bujj lvpkrl ivz pij ukxip pr jnqjdp beww drrqjuvpkrl burg vww xureqz. V
bujj lvpkrl ivz pij ukxip pr wrra pr pij wjvfjuz rb sezkljzz, rb wvsru, vlf
rb vxukdewpeuj pr pvaj pij wjvf kl zpkgewvpklx jbbrup, lrp vgrlx rpiju
xureqz sep ykpikl pijku ryl xureqz.

Pij sjzp yvm rb fjvwklx ykpi pij bjy zwvdajuz ru pureswj gvajuz kl reu
gkfzp kz, bkuzp, pr zivgj pijg sm qvpukrpkd jnvgqwj, vlf, kb pivp bvkwz, pr
ezj pij zrcjujkxlpm rb Xrcjulgjlp pr zvcj Xrcjulgjlp.

Vz gjl fr lrp wkcj sm sujvf vwrlj, pijm fr lrp bkxip sm vugvgjlpz vwrlj.
Pirzj yir gvl reu fjbjlzjz, vlf pirzj sjiklf pijg yir sekwf reu fjbjlzjz,
gezp ivcj pij zpvgklv vlf pij dreuvxj yikdi drgj burg elzivavswj sjwkjb kl
pij gvllju rb wkbj yikdi pijm vuj fjbjlfklx. Pij gkxipm vdpkrl pivp yj vuj
dvwwklx bru dvllrp sj svzjf rl v fkzujxvuf rb vww piklxz yrupi bkxipklx
bru.

Pij Lvpkrl pvajz xujvp zvpkzbvdpkrl vlf gedi zpujlxpi burg pij piklxz yikdi
ivcj sjjl frlj pr gvaj kpz qjrqwj drlzdkrez rb pijku klfkckfevw zpvaj kl
pij qujzjucvpkrl rb fjgrduvpkd wkbj kl Vgjukdv. Pirzj piklxz ivcj prexijljf
pij bksuj rb reu qjrqwj, ivcj ujljyjf pijku bvkpi vlf zpujlxpijljf pijku
fjcrpkrl pr pij klzpkpepkrlz yj gvaj ujvfm pr qurpjdp.

Djupvklwm pikz kz lr pkgj bru vlm rb ez pr zprq piklaklx vsrep pij zrdkvw
vlf jdrlrgkd qurswjgz yikdi vuj pij urrp dvezj rb pij zrdkvw ujcrwepkrl
yikdi kz prfvm v zequjgj bvdpru kl pij yruwf.

Bru pijuj kz lrpiklx gmzpjukrez vsrep pij brelfvpkrlz rb v ijvwpim vlf
zpurlx fjgrduvdm. Pij svzkd piklxz jnqjdpjf sm reu qjrqwj rb pijku
qrwkpkdvw vlf jdrlrgkd zmzpjgz vuj zkgqwj. Pijm vuj:

Jtevwkpm rb rqqrupelkpm bru mrepi vlf bru rpijuz.

Hrsz bru pirzj yir dvl yrua.

Zjdeukpm bru pirzj yir ljjf kp.

Pij jlfklx rb zqjdkvw qukckwjxj bru pij bjy.

Pij qujzjucvpkrl rb dkckw wksjupkjz bru vww.

Pij jlhrmgjlp rb pij buekpz rb zdkjlpkbkd qurxujzz kl v ykfju vlf
drlzpvlpwm ukzklx zpvlfvuf rb wkcklx.

Pijzj vuj pij zkgqwj, svzkd piklxz pivp gezp ljcju sj wrzp zkxip rb kl pij
peugrkw vlf elsjwkjcvswj drgqwjnkpm rb reu grfjul yruwf. Pij kllju vlf
vskfklx zpujlxpi rb reu jdrlrgkd vlf qrwkpkdvw zmzpjgz kz fjqjlfjlp eqrl
pij fjxujj pr yikdi pijm bewbkww pijzj jnqjdpvpkrlz.

Gvlm zeshjdpz drlljdpjf ykpi reu zrdkvw jdrlrgm dvww bru kggjfkvpj
kgqurcjgjlp.

Vz jnvgqwjz:

Yj zirewf suklx gruj dkpkojlz elfju pij drcjuvxj rb rwf-vxj qjlzkrlz vlf
eljgqwrmgjlp klzeuvldj.

Yj zirewf ykfjl pij rqqrupelkpkjz bru vfjtevpj gjfkdvw dvuj.

Yj zirewf qwvl v sjppju zmzpjg sm yikdi qjuzrlz fjzjucklx ru ljjfklx
xvklbew jgqwrmgjlp gvm rspvkl kp.

K ivcj dvwwjf bru qjuzrlvw zvdukbkdj. K vg vzzeujf rb pij ykwwklxljzz rb
vwgrzp vww Vgjukdvlz pr ujzqrlf pr pivp dvww.

V qvup rb pij zvdukbkdj gjvlz pij qvmgjlp rb gruj grljm kl pvnjz. Kl gm
Sefxjp Gjzzvxj K zivww ujdrggjlf pivp v xujvpju qrupkrl rb pikz xujvp
fjbjlzj qurxuvg sj qvkf bru burg pvnvpkrl pivl yj vuj qvmklx prfvm. Lr
qjuzrl zirewf pum, ru sj vwwryjf, pr xjp ukdi rep rb pikz qurxuvg; vlf pij
qukldkqwj rb pvn qvmgjlpz kl vddrufvldj ykpi vskwkpm pr qvm zirewf sj
drlzpvlpwm sjbruj reu jmjz pr xekfj reu wjxkzwvpkrl.

Kb pij Drlxujzz gvklpvklz pijzj qukldkqwjz, pij crpjuz, qeppklx qvpukrpkzg
vijvf rb qrdajpsrraz, ykww xkcj mre pijku vqqwvezj.

Kl pij bepeuj fvmz, yikdi yj zjja pr gvaj zjdeuj, yj wrra bruyvuf pr v
yruwf brelfjf eqrl breu jzzjlpkvw iegvl bujjfrgz.

Pij bkuzp kz bujjfrg rb zqjjdi vlf jnqujzzkrl--jcjumyijuj kl pij yruwf.

Pij zjdrlf kz bujjfrg rb jcjum qjuzrl pr yruzikq Xrf kl ikz ryl
yvm--jcjumyijuj kl pij yruwf.

Pij pikuf kz bujjfrg burg yvlp--yikdi, puvlzwvpjf klpr yruwf pjugz, gjvlz
jdrlrgkd elfjuzpvlfklxz yikdi ykww zjdeuj pr jcjum lvpkrl v ijvwpim
qjvdjpkgj wkbj bru kpz klivskpvlpz--jcjumyijuj kl pij yruwf.

Pij breupi kz bujjfrg burg bjvu--yikdi, puvlzwvpjf klpr yruwf pjugz, gjvlz v
yruwf-ykfj ujfedpkrl rb vugvgjlpz pr zedi v qrklp vlf kl zedi v pirurexi
bvzikrl pivp lr lvpkrl ykww sj kl v qrzkpkrl pr drggkp vl vdp rb qimzkdvw
vxxujzzkrl vxvklzp vlm ljkxisru--vlmyijuj kl pij yruwf.

Pivp kz lr ckzkrl rb v fkzpvlp gkwwjllkeg. Kp kz v fjbklkpj svzkz bru v
aklf rb yruwf vppvklvswj kl reu ryl pkgj vlf xjljuvpkrl. Pivp aklf rb yruwf
kz pij cjum vlpkpijzkz rb pij zr-dvwwjf ljy rufju rb pmuvllm yikdi pij
fkdpvpruz zjja pr dujvpj ykpi pij duvzi rb v srgs.

Pr pivp ljy rufju yj rqqrzj pij xujvpju drldjqpkrl--pij gruvw rufju. V xrrf
zrdkjpm kz vswj pr bvdj zdijgjz rb yruwf frgklvpkrl vlf brujkxl ujcrwepkrlz
vwkaj ykpirep bjvu.

Zkldj pij sjxkllklx rb reu Vgjukdvl ikzprum, yj ivcj sjjl jlxvxjf kl
divlxj--kl v qjuqjpevw qjvdjbew ujcrwepkrl--v ujcrwepkrl yikdi xrjz rl
zpjvfkwm, tekjpwm vfhezpklx kpzjwb pr divlxklx drlfkpkrlz--ykpirep pij
drldjlpuvpkrl dvgq ru pij tekda-wkgj kl pij fkpdi. Pij yruwf rufju yikdi yj
zjja kz pij drrqjuvpkrl rb bujj drelpukjz, yruaklx prxjpiju kl v bukjlfwm,
dkckwkojf zrdkjpm.

Pikz lvpkrl ivz qwvdjf kpz fjzpklm kl pij ivlfz vlf ijvfz vlf ijvupz rb kpz
gkwwkrlz rb bujj gjl vlf yrgjl; vlf kpz bvkpi kl bujjfrg elfju pij xekfvldj
rb Xrf. Bujjfrg gjvlz pij zequjgvdm rb iegvl ukxipz jcjumyijuj. Reu zeqqrup
xrjz pr pirzj yir zpuexxwj pr xvkl pirzj ukxipz ru ajjq pijg. Reu zpujlxpi
kz reu elkpm rb qeuqrzj. Pr pivp ikxi drldjqp pijuj dvl sj lr jlf zvcj
ckdprum.