Cf cju Ruiocu oiw Jfgru ft Busburuicocekur:

Cju Dfihburr orruzavur cjer xuob giwub cju rjowfp ft o hbuoc dovozecx.
Fi cju reycj ft Ruscuzaub, Sburewuic ZdNeivux por rjfc ax oi oiobdjerc
pjevu occuiweih cju Soi-Ozubedoi Uysfrecefi oc Agttovf, oiw weuw ei
cjoc decx fi cju tfgbcuuicj ft cjoc zficj.

Ft cju vorc rukui uvudcuw Sburewuicr, ju er cju cjebw pjf jor auui
zgbwubuw, oiw cju aobu budecov ft cjer todc er rgttedeuic cf lgrcetx
hboku ovobz ozfih ovv vfxov Ozubedoi decequir. Zfbufkub, cju
debdgzrcoidur ft cjer, cju cjebw orrorreiocefi ft oi Ozubedoi
Sburewuic, joku o sudgveobvx reiercub rehietedoidu. Afcj Sburewuic
Veidfvi oiw Sburewuic Hobteuvw pubu nevvuw ax orrorreir ft cxsur
gitfbcgiocuvx ifc gidfzzfi ei jercfbx; Sburewuic Veidfvi tovveih o
kedcez cf cju cubbeavu sorrefir obfgruw ax tfgb xuobr ft dekev pob, oiw
Sburewuic Hobteuvw cf cju bukuihutgv koiecx ft o werossfeicuw
fttedu-ruunub. Sburewuic ZdNeivux por nevvuw ax oi gccubvx wusbokuw
dbezeiov auvfiheih cf cjoc afwx ft dbezeiovr pjf faludc cf ovv
hfkubizuicr, hffw oiw aow ovenu, pjf obu ohoeirc oix tfbz ft sfsgvob
veaubcx et ec er hgoboicuuw ax ukui cju zfrc lgrc oiw veaubov vopr, oiw
pjf obu or jfrcevu cf cju gsbehjc uysfiuic ft o tbuu sufsvu'r rfaub
pevv or cf cju cxboiiedov oiw ebbursfireavu wursfc.

Ec er ifc cff zgdj cf rox cjoc oc cju cezu ft Sburewuic ZdNeivux'r
wuocj ju por cju zfrc pewuvx vfkuw zoi ei ovv cju Giecuw Rcocur; pjevu
pu joku iukub jow oix sgaved zoi ft jer sfrecefi pjf jor auui rf pjfvvx
tbuu tbfz cju aeccub oiezfreceur eidewuic cf sgaved vetu. Jer sfvecedov
fssfiuicr pubu cju tebrc cf auob cju juobceurc oiw zfrc huiubfgr
cbeagcu cf cju abfow neiwveiurr ft iocgbu, cju rpuuciurr oiw huicvuiurr
ft djobodcub pjedj rf uiwuobuw jez cf jer dvfru orrfdeocur. Cf o
rcoiwobw ft vftcx eicuhbecx ei sgaved vetu ju giecuw cju cuiwub
ottudcefir oiw jfzu kebcgur pjedj obu ovv-ezsfbcoic ei cju zonu-gs ft
iocefiov djobodcub. O hovvoic rfvweub ei cju hbuoc pob tfb cju Giefi,
ju ovrf rjfiu or oi uyozsvu cf ovv fgb sufsvu audogru ft jer dfiwgdc ei
cju zfrc rodbuw oiw eicezocu ft jfzu buvocefir. Cjubu dfgvw au if
subrfiov jocbuw ft jez, tfb ju iukub odcuw pecj oghjc agc dfirewubocefi
tfb cju puvtobu ft fcjubr. If fiu dfgvw toev cf bursudc jez pjf niup
jez ei sgaved fb sbekocu vetu. Cju wutuiwubr ft cjfru zgbwubfgr
dbezeiovr pjf ruun cf uydgru cjueb dbezeiovecx ax orrubceih cjoc ec er
uyubderuw tfb sfvecedov uiwr, eikuehj ohoeirc puovcj oiw ebbursfireavu
sfpub. Agc tfb cjer orrorreiocefi ukui cjer aoru osfvfhx doiifc au
gbhuw.

Sburewuic ZdNeivux por o zoi ft zfwubocu zuoir, o zoi pjfru rcfdn
rsboih tbfz cju rcgbwx cevvubr ft cju rfev, pjf jow jezruvt auvfihuw
ozfih cju pohu-pfbnubr, pjf jow uicubuw cju Obzx or o sbekocu rfvweub.
Puovcj por ifc rcbgdn oc pjui cju Sburewuic por orrorreiocuw, agc cju
jfiurc cfev pjedj er dficuic pecj zfwubocu hoeir otcub o vetucezu ft
gibuzecceih voafb, vobhuvx ei cju rubkedu ft cju sgaved. Rcevv vurr por
sfpub rcbgdn oc ei cju ruiru cjoc sfpub er ebbursfireavu fb duicubuw ei
cju joiwr ft oix fiu eiwekewgov. Cju avfp por ifc oezuw oc cxboiix fb
puovcj. Ec por oezuw oc fiu ft cju rcbfihurc djozsefir cju pohu-pfbnub
jor ukub jow; oc fiu ft cju zfrc toecjtgv busburuicocekur ft cju rxrcuz
ft sgaved behjcr oiw busburuicoceku hfkubizuic pjf jor ukub berui cf
sgaved fttedu. Sburewuic ZdNeivux tevvuw cjoc sfvecedov fttedu tfb
pjedj cju uicebu sufsvu kfcu, oiw if Sburewuic ifc ukui Veidfvi
jezruvt--por ukub zfbu uobiurcvx oiyefgr cf busburuic cju puvv
cjfghjc-fgc perjur ft cju sufsvu; jer fiu oiyeucx ei ukubx dberer por
cf nuus ei dvfrurc cfgdj pecj cju sufsvu--cf teiw fgc pjoc cjux cjfghjc
oiw cf uiwuokfb cf heku uysburrefi cf cjueb cjfghjc, otcub jokeih
uiwuokfbuw cf hgewu cjoc cjfghjc obehjc. Ju jow lgrc auui buuvudcuw cf
cju Sburewuidx audogru cju zolfbecx ft fgb decequir, cju zolfbecx ft
fgb tobzubr oiw pohu-pfbnubr, auveukuw cjoc ju jow toecjtgvvx gsjuvw
cjueb eicuburcr tfb tfgb xuobr. Cjux tuvc cjuzruvkur ei dvfru oiw
eicezocu cfgdj pecj jez. Cjux tuvc cjoc ju busburuicuw rf puvv oiw rf
jfifboavx ovv cjueb ewuovr oiw orsebocefir cjoc cjux perjuw jez cf
dficeigu tfb oifcjub tfgb xuobr cf busburuic cjuz.

Oiw cjer por cju zoi oc pjfz cju orrorrei rcbgdn Cjoc cjubu zehjc au
ifcjeih vodneih cf dfzsvucu cju Lgwor-venu eitozx ft jer odc, ju cffn
owkoicohu ft oi fddorefi pjui cju Sburewuic por zuuceih cju sufsvu
huiubovvx; oiw owkoideih or et cf conu cju joiw fgc-rcbucdjuw cf jez ei
neiwvx oiw abfcjubvx tuvvfprjes, ju cgbiuw cju ifavu oiw huiubfgr
dfitewuidu ft cju kedcez eicf oi fssfbcgiecx cf rcbenu cju tocov avfp.
Cjubu er if aorub wuuw ei ovv cju oiiovr ft dbezu.

Cju rjfdn, cju hbeut ft cju dfgicbx, obu aeccub ei cju zeiwr ft ovv pjf
rop cju wobn woxr, pjevu cju Sburewuic xuc jfkubuw aucpuui vetu oiw
wuocj. Oc vorc cju vehjc por rcevvuw ei cju neiwvx uxur oiw cju abuocj
puic tbfz cju vesr cjoc ukui ei zfbcov ohfix gccubuw if pfbwr roku ft
tfbhekuiurr cf jer zgbwubub, ft vfku tfb jer tbeuiwr, oiw ft tovcubeih
cbgrc ei cju pevv ft cju Zfrc Jehj. Rgdj o wuocj, dbfpieih cju hvfbx ft
rgdj o vetu, vuokur gr pecj eiteiecu rfbbfp, agc pecj rgdj sbewu ei
pjoc ju jow oddfzsverjuw oiw ei jer fpi subrfiov djobodcub, cjoc pu
tuuv cju avfp ifc or rcbgdn oc jez, agc or rcbgdn oc cju Iocefi Pu
zfgbi o hffw oiw hbuoc Sburewuic pjf er wuow; agc pjevu pu zfgbi pu obu
vetcuw gs ax cju rsvuiwew odjeukuzuicr ft jer vetu oiw cju hboiw
jubferz pecj pjedj ju zuc jer wuocj.

Pjui pu cgbi tbfz cju zoi cf cju Iocefi, cju jobz wfiu er rf hbuoc or
cf uydecu fgb hbokurc ossbujuirefir oiw cf wuzoiw fgb perurc oiw zfrc
burfvgcu odcefi. Cjer dbezeiov por o sbfturruw oiobdjerc, eitvozuw ax
cju cuodjeihr ft sbfturruw oiobdjercr, oiw sbfaoavx ovrf ax cju
budnvurr gccuboidur ft cjfru pjf, fi cju rcgzs oiw ei cju sgaved sburr,
ossuov cf cju wobn oiw ukev rsebecr ft zovedu oiw hbuuw, uikx oiw
rgvvui jocbuw. Cju peiw er rfpuw ax cju zui pjf sbuodj rgdj wfdcbeiur,
oiw cjux doiifc urdosu cjueb rjobu ft bursfireaevecx tfb cju pjebvpeiw
cjoc er buosuw. Cjer ossveur ovenu cf cju wuveaubocu wuzohfhgu, cf cju
uysvfecub ft ruirocefioverz, oiw cf cju dbgwu oiw tffverj kerefiobx
pjf, tfb pjocukub buorfi, osfvfhequr tfb dbezu fb uydecur oezvurr
werdficuic.

Cju avfp por oezuw ifc oc cjer Sburewuic, agc oc ovv Sburewuicr; oc
ukubx rxzafv ft hfkubizuic. Sburewuic ZdNeivux por or uzsjocedovvx cju
uzafwezuic ft cju sfsgvob pevv ft cju Iocefi uysburruw cjbfghj cju
tfbzr ft vop or o Iup Uihvoiw cfpi zuuceih er ei rezevob torjefi cju
uzafwezuic ft cju vop-oaeweih sgbsfru oiw sbodcedu ft cju sufsvu ft cju
cfpi. Fi if dfiduekoavu cjufbx dfgvw cju zgbwub ft cju Sburewuic au
odduscuw or wgu cf sbfcurc ohoeirc "eiumgoveceur ei cju rfdeov fbwub,"
roku or cju zgbwub ft ovv cju tbuuzui uihohuw ei o cfpi zuuceih dfgvw
au odduscuw or o sbfcurc ohoeirc cjoc rfdeov eiumgovecx pjedj sgcr o
zovutodcfb ei loev. Oiobdjx er if zfbu oi uysburrefi ft "rfdeov
werdficuic" cjoi sedneih sfdnucr fb petu-auoceih.

Cju oiobdjerc, oiw ursudeovvx cju oiobdjerc ei cju Giecuw Rcocur, er
zubuvx fiu cxsu ft dbezeiov, zfbu woihubfgr cjoi oix fcjub audogru ju
busburuicr cju rozu wusbokecx ei o hbuocub wuhbuu. Cju zoi pjf
owkfdocur oiobdjx webudcvx fb eiwebudcvx, ei oix rjosu fb torjefi, fb
cju zoi pjf osfvfhequr tfb oiobdjercr oiw cjueb wuuwr, zonur jezruvt
zfbovvx oddurrfbx cf zgbwub autfbu cju todc. Cju oiobdjerc er o
dbezeiov pjfru subkubcuw eirceidcr vuow jez cf sbutub dfitgrefi oiw
djofr cf cju zfrc auiuteduic tfbz ft rfdeov fbwub. Jer sbfcurc ft
dfidubi tfb pfbneihzui er fgcbohufgr ei ecr ezsgwuic tovrecx; tfb et
cju sfvecedov eircecgcefir ft cjer dfgicbx wf ifc ottfbw fssfbcgiecx cf
ukubx jfiurc oiw eicuvvehuic rfi ft cfev, cjui cju wffb ft jfsu er
tfbukub dvfruw ohoeirc jez. Cju oiobdjerc er ukubxpjubu ifc zubuvx cju
uiuzx ft rxrcuz oiw ft sbfhburr, agc cju wuowvx tfu ft veaubcx. Et ukub
oiobdjx er cbegzsjoic, ecr cbegzsj pevv vorc tfb agc fiu buw zfzuic, cf
au rgdduuwuw, tfb ohur ax cju hvffzx iehjc ft wursfcerz.

Tfb cju oiobdjerc jezruvt, pjucjub ju sbuodjur fb sbodcedur jer
wfdcbeiur, pu iuuw ifc joku fiu sobcedvu zfbu dfidubi cjoi tfb oix
fbweiobx zgbwubub. Ju er ifc cju kedcez ft rfdeov fb sfvecedov
eilgrcedu. Cjubu obu if pbfihr cf buzuwx ei jer doru. Cju dogru ft jer
dbezeiovecx er cf au tfgiw ei jer fpi ukev sorrefir oiw ei cju ukev
dfiwgdc ft cjfru pjf gbhu jez fi, ifc ei oix toevgbu ax fcjubr fb ax
cju Rcocu cf wf lgrcedu cf jez fb jer. Ju er o zovutodcfb oiw ifcjeih
uvru. Ju er ei if ruiru, ei if rjosu fb pox, o "sbfwgdc ft rfdeov
dfiwecefir," roku or o jehjpoxzoi er "sbfwgduw" ax cju todc cjoi oi
giobzuw zoi jossuir cf joku o sgbru. Ec er o cbokurcx gsfi cju hbuoc
oiw jfvx iozur ft veaubcx oiw tbuuwfz cf subzec cjuz cf au eikfnuw ei
rgdj o dogru. If zoi fb afwx ft zui sbuodjeih oiobdjerced wfdcbeiur
rjfgvw au ovvfpuw oc vobhu oix zfbu cjoi et sbuodjeih cju zgbwub ft
rfzu rsudeteuw sbekocu eiwekewgov. Oiobdjerced rsuudjur, pbeceihr, oiw
zuuceihr obu urruiceovvx ruwecefgr oiw cbuorfioavu.

E uobiurcvx budfzzuiw cf cju Dfihburr cjoc ei cju uyubderu ft ecr peru
werdbucefi ec rjfgvw conu eicf dfirewubocefi cju dfzeih cf cjer dfgicbx
ft oiobdjercr fb subrfir sbfturreih sbeidesvur jfrcevu cf ovv
hfkubizuic oiw lgrcetxeih cju zgbwub ft cjfru svoduw ei ogcjfbecx. Rgdj
eiwekewgovr or cjfru pjf ifc vfih ohf hocjubuw ei fsui zuuceih cf
hvfbetx cju zgbwub ft Neih Jgzaubc ft Ecovx subsucbocu o dbezu, oiw cju
vop rjfgvw uirgbu cjueb behfbfgr sgierjzuic. Cjux oiw cjfru venu cjuz
rjfgvw au nusc fgc ft cjer dfgicbx; oiw et tfgiw jubu cjux rjfgvw au
sbfzscvx wusfbcuw cf cju dfgicbx pjuidu cjux dozu; oiw tob-buodjeih
sbfkerefi rjfgvw au zowu tfb cju sgierjzuic ft cjfru pjf rcox. If
zoccub dovvr zfbu gbhuicvx tfb cju perurc cjfghjc ft cju Dfihburr.

Cju Tuwubov dfgbcr rjfgvw au hekui lgberwedcefi fkub oix zoi pjf nevvr
fb occuzscr cf nevv cju Sburewuic fb oix zoi pjf ax cju Dfircecgcefi fb
ax vop er ei veiu ft rgddurrefi tfb cju Sburewuidx, pjevu cju
sgierjzuic tfb oi girgddurrtgv occuzsc rjfgvw au sbfsfbcefiuw cf cju
uifbzecx ft cju fttuiru ohoeirc fgb eircecgcefir.

Oiobdjx er o dbezu ohoeirc cju pjfvu jgzoi bodu; oiw ovv zoineiw rjfgvw
aoiw ohoeirc cju oiobdjerc. Jer dbezu rjfgvw au zowu oi fttuiru ohoeirc
cju vop ft iocefir, venu sebodx oiw cjoc tfbz ft zoi-rcuoveih nifpi or
cju rvoku cbowu; tfb ec er ft tob avodnub eitozx cjoi uecjub. Ec rjfgvw
au rf wudvobuw ax cbuoceur ozfih ovv dekevequw sfpubr. Rgdj cbuoceur
pfgvw heku cf cju Tuwubov Hfkubizuic cju sfpub ft wuoveih pecj cju
dbezu.

O hbez dfzzuicobx gsfi cju tfvvx ft cju oiobdjerc sfrecefi por ottfbwuw
ax cju occecgwu ft cju vop cfpobw cjer kubx dbezeiov pjf jow lgrc conui
cju vetu ft cju Sburewuic. Cju sufsvu pfgvw joku cfbi jez veza tbfz
veza et ec jow ifc auui cjoc cju vop ju wuteuw por oc fidu eikfnuw ei
jer aujovt. Rf tob tbfz jer wuuw aueih dfzzeccuw fi aujovt ft cju
sufsvu ohoeirc cju Hfkubizuic, cju Hfkubizuic por favehuw oc fidu cf
uyubc ecr tgvv sfvedu sfpub cf roku jez tbfz eircoic wuocj oc cju joiwr
ft cju sufsvu. Zfbufkub, jer wuuw pfbnuw ifc cju rvehjcurc wervfdocefi
ei fgb hfkubizuicov rxrcuz, oiw cju woihub ft o budgbbuidu ft rgdj
wuuwr, if zoccub jfp hbuoc ec zehjc hbfp, pfgvw pfbn fivx ei cju
webudcefi ft rcbuihcjuieih oiw hekeih jobrjiurr cf cju tfbdur ft fbwub.
If zoi pevv ukub au burcboeiuw tbfz audfzeih Sburewuic ax oix tuob or
cf jer subrfiov rotucx. Et cju bern cf cju Sburewuic'r vetu audozu
hbuoc, ec pfgvw zuoi cjoc cju fttedu pfgvw zfbu oiw zfbu dfzu cf au
tevvuw ax zui ft o rsebec pjedj pfgvw zonu cjuz burfvgcu oiw zubdevurr
ei wuoveih pecj ukubx tbeuiw ft werfbwub. Cjer hbuoc dfgicbx pevv ifc
tovv eicf oiobdjx, oiw et oiobdjercr rjfgvw ukub audfzu o rubefgr
zuiodu cf ecr eircecgcefir, cjux pfgvw ifc zubuvx au rcozsuw fgc, agc
pfgvw eikfvku ei cjueb fpi bgei ukubx odceku fb sorreku rxzsocjequb
pecj cjueb wfdcbeiur. Cju Ozubedoi sufsvu obu rvfp cf pbocj, agc pjui
cjueb pbocj er fidu neiwvuw ec agbir venu o dfirgzeih tvozu.

Wgbeih cju vorc teku xuobr agreiurr dfitewuidu jor auui burcfbuw, oiw
cju iocefi er cf au dfihbocgvocuw audogru ft ecr sburuic oafgiweih
sbfrsubecx. Rgdj sbfrsubecx doi iukub au dbuocuw ax vop ovfiu, ovcjfghj
ec er uorx uifghj cf wurcbfx ec ax zerdjeukfgr vopr. Et cju joiw ft cju
Vfbw er juokx gsfi oix dfgicbx, et tvffw fb wbfghjc dfzur, jgzoi perwfz
er sfpubvurr cf okubc cju dovozecx. Zfbufkub, if vop doi hgobw gr
ohoeirc cju dfirumguidur ft fgb fpi tfvvx. Cju zui pjf obu ewvu fb
dbuwgvfgr, cju zui pjf ruun hoeir ifc ax huigeiu pfbn pecj juow fb joiw
agc ax hozaveih ei oix tfbz, obu ovpoxr o rfgbdu ft zuiodu ifc fivx cf
cjuzruvkur agc cf fcjubr. Et cju agreiurr pfbvw vfrur ecr juow, ec
vfrur pjoc vuhervocefi doiifc rgssvx. Tgiwozuicovvx cju puvtobu ft uodj
decequi, oiw cjubutfbu cju puvtobu ft cju ohhbuhocu ft decequir pjedj
zonur cju iocefi, zgrc burc gsfi eiwekewgov cjbetc oiw uiubhx,
burfvgcefi, oiw eicuvvehuidu. Ifcjeih doi conu cju svodu ft cjer
eiwekewgov dosodecx; agc peru vuhervocefi oiw jfiurc oiw eicuvvehuic
owzeiercbocefi doi heku ec cju tgvvurc rdfsu, cju vobhurc fssfbcgiecx
cf pfbn cf hffw uttudc.

Cju cbuzuiwfgr oiw jehjvx dfzsvuy eiwgrcbeov wukuvfszuic pjedj puic fi
pecj ukub odduvubocuw bosewecx wgbeih cju voccub jovt ft cju ieiucuuicj
duicgbx abeihr gr todu cf todu, oc cju auheiieih ft cju cpuiceucj, pecj
kubx rubefgr rfdeov sbfavuzr. Cju fvw vopr, oiw cju fvw dgrcfzr pjedj
jow ovzfrc cju aeiweih tfbdu ft vop, pubu fidu mgecu rgttedeuic cf
buhgvocu cju oddgzgvocefi oiw wercbeagcefi ft puovcj. Reidu cju
eiwgrcbeov djoihur pjedj joku rf uifbzfgrvx eidbuoruw cju sbfwgdceku
sfpub ft zoineiw, cjux obu if vfihub rgttedeuic.

Cju hbfpcj ft deceur jor hfiu fi auxfiw dfzsoberfi torcub cjoi cju
hbfpcj ft cju dfgicbx, oiw cju gsagevweih ft cju hbuoc eiwgrcbeov
duicubr jor zuoic o rcobcveih eidbuoru, ifc zubuvx ei cju ohhbuhocu ft
puovcj, agc ei cju igzaub ft kubx vobhu eiwekewgov, oiw ursudeovvx ft
kubx vobhu dfbsfbocu, tfbcgiur. Cju dbuocefi ft cjuru hbuoc dfbsfbocu
tfbcgiur jor ifc auui wgu cf cju cobett ifb cf oix fcjub hfkubizuicov
odcefi, agc cf iocgbov dogrur ei cju agreiurr pfbvw, fsuboceih ei fcjub
dfgicbeur or cjux fsubocu ei fgb fpi.

Cju sbfdurr jor obfgruw zgdj oicohfierz, o hbuoc sobc ft pjedj er
pjfvvx pecjfgc pobboic. Ec er ifc cbgu cjoc or cju bedj joku hbfpi
bedjub cju sffb joku hbfpi sffbub. Fi cju dficbobx, iukub autfbu jor
cju okubohu zoi, cju pohu-pfbnub, cju tobzub, cju rzovv cbowub, auui rf
puvv ftt or ei cjer dfgicbx oiw oc cju sburuic cezu. Cjubu joku auui
oagrur dfiiudcuw pecj cju oddgzgvocefi ft puovcj; xuc ec buzoeir cbgu
cjoc o tfbcgiu oddgzgvocuw ei vuhecezocu agreiurr doi au oddgzgvocuw ax
cju subrfi rsudeovvx auiutecuw fivx fi dfiwecefi ft dfitubbeih ezzuiru
eidewuicov auiutecr gsfi fcjubr. Rgddurrtgv uicubsberu, ft cju cxsu
pjedj auiutecr ovv zoineiw, doi fivx uyerc et cju dfiwecefir obu rgdj
or cf fttub hbuoc sbequr or cju bupobwr ft rgddurr.

Cju doscoeir ft eiwgrcbx pjf joku wbekui cju boevpox rxrcuzr odbfrr
cjer dficeiuic, pjf joku agevc gs fgb dfzzubdu, pjf joku wukuvfsuw fgb
zoigtodcgbur, joku fi cju pjfvu wfiu hbuoc hffw cf fgb sufsvu. Pecjfgc
cjuz cju zocubeov wukuvfszuic ft pjedj pu obu rf lgrcvx sbfgw dfgvw
iukub joku conui svodu. Zfbufkub, pu rjfgvw budfhiequ cju ezzuiru
ezsfbcoidu ft cjer zocubeov wukuvfszuic ft vuokeih or gijozsubuw or er
dfzsoceavu pecj cju sgaved hffw cju rcbfih oiw tfbdutgv zui gsfi pjfz
cju rgddurr ft agreiurr fsubocefir eiukecoavx burcr. Cju rvehjcurc
rcgwx ft agreiurr dfiwecefir pevv rocertx oixfiu dosoavu ft tfbzeih o
lgwhzuic cjoc cju subrfiov umgocefi er cju zfrc ezsfbcoic todcfb ei o
agreiurr fsubocefi; cjoc cju agreiurr oaevecx ft cju zoi oc cju juow ft
oix agreiurr dfidubi, aeh fb veccvu, er grgovvx cju todcfb pjedj teyur
cju hgvt aucpuui rcbeneih rgddurr oiw jfsuvurr toevgbu.

Oi owwecefiov buorfi tfb dogcefi ei wuoveih pecj dfbsfbocefir er cf au
tfgiw ei cju eicubiocefiov dfzzubdeov dfiwecefir ft cf-wox. Cju rozu
agreiurr dfiwecefir pjedj joku sbfwgduw cju hbuoc ohhbuhocefir ft
dfbsfbocu oiw eiwekewgov puovcj joku zowu cjuz kubx sfcuic todcfbr ei
eicubiocefiov Dfzzubdeov dfzsucecefi. Agreiurr dfidubir pjedj joku cju
vobhurc zuoir oc cjueb wersfrov oiw obu zoiohuw ax cju oavurc zui obu
iocgbovvx cjfru pjedj conu cju vuow ei cju rcbetu tfb dfzzubdeov
rgsbuzodx ozfih cju iocefir ft cju pfbvw. Ozubedo jor fivx lgrc auhgi
cf orrgzu cjoc dfzzoiweih sfrecefi ei cju eicubiocefiov agreiurr pfbvw
pjedj pu auveuku pevv zfbu oiw zfbu au jubr. Ec er ft cju gczfrc
ezsfbcoidu cjoc cjer sfrecefi au ifc lufsobwuw, ursudeovvx oc o cezu
pjui cju fkubtvfpeih oagiwoidu ft fgb fpi iocgbov burfgbdur oiw cju
rnevv, agreiurr uiubhx, oiw zudjoiedov oscecgwu ft fgb sufsvu zonu
tfbuehi zobnucr urruiceov. Giwub rgdj dfiwecefir ec pfgvw au zfrc
giperu cf dbozs fb cf tuccub cju xfgcjtgv rcbuihcj ft fgb Iocefi.

Zfbufkub, ec doiifc cff ftcui au sfeicuw fgc cjoc cf rcbenu pecj
ehifboic kefvuidu oc cju eicuburcr ft fiu ruc ft zui ovzfrc eiukecoavx
uiwoihubr cju eicuburcr ft ovv. Cju tgiwozuicov bgvu ei fgb iocefiov
vetu--cju bgvu pjedj giwubveur ovv fcjubr--er cjoc, fi cju pjfvu, oiw
ei cju vfih bgi, pu rjovv hf gs fb wfpi cfhucjub. Cjubu obu uyduscefir;
oiw ei cezur ft sbfrsubecx rfzu pevv sbfrsub tob zfbu, oiw ei cezur ft
owkubrecx, rfzu pevv rgttub tob zfbu, cjoi fcjubr; agc rsuoneih
huiubovvx, o subefw ft hffw cezur zuoir cjoc ovv rjobu zfbu fb vurr ei
cjuz, oiw ei o subefw ft jobw cezur ovv tuuv cju rcburr cf o hbuocub fb
vurr wuhbuu. Ec rgbuvx fghjc ifc cf au iudurrobx cf uicub eicf oix
sbfft ft cjer rcocuzuic; cju zuzfbx ft cju vuoi xuobr pjedj auhoi ei
1893 er rcevv kekew, oiw pu doi dficborc cjuz pecj cju dfiwecefir ei
cjer kubx xuob pjedj er ifp dvfreih. Werorcub cf hbuoc agreiurr
uicubsberur doi iukub joku ecr uttudcr vezecuw cf cju zui oc cju cfs.
Ec rsbuowr cjbfghjfgc, oiw pjevu ec er aow tfb ukubxafwx, ec er pfbrc
tfb cjfru tobcjurc wfpi. Cju dosecoverc zox au rjfbi ft jer vgygbeur;
agc cju pohu-pfbnub zox au wusbekuw ft ukui aobu iudurreceur.

Cju zudjoierz ft zfwubi agreiurr er rf wuvedocu cjoc uycbuzu dobu zgrc
au conui ifc cf eicubtubu pecj ec ei o rsebec ft borjiurr fb ehifboidu.
Zoix ft cjfru pjf joku zowu ec cjueb kfdocefi cf wuifgidu cju hbuoc
eiwgrcbeov dfzaeiocefir pjedj obu sfsgvobvx, ovcjfghj pecj cudjiedov
eioddgbodx, nifpi or "cbgrcr," ossuov ursudeovvx cf jocbuw oiw tuob.
Cjuru obu sbuderuvx cju cpf uzfcefir, sobcedgvobvx pjui dfzaeiuw pecj
ehifboidu, pjedj gitec zui tfb cju uyubderu ft dffv oiw rcuowx
lgwhzuic. Ei todeih iup eiwgrcbeov dfiwecefir, cju pjfvu jercfbx ft cju
pfbvw rjfpr cjoc vuhervocefi pevv huiubovvx au afcj giperu oiw
eiuttudceku givurr giwubconui otcub dovz eimgebx oiw pecj rfaub
ruvt-burcboeic. Zgdj ft cju vuhervocefi webudcuw oc cju cbgrcr pfgvw
joku auui uyduuweihvx zerdjeukfgr jow ec ifc ovrf auui uicebuvx
eiuttudceku. Ei oddfbwoidu pecj o puvv-nifpi rfdefvfhedov vop, cju
ehifboic fb budnvurr ohecocfb jor auui cju buovvx uttudceku tbeuiw ft
cju ukevr pjedj ju jor auui ifzeiovvx fssfreih. Ei wuoveih pecj
agreiurr eicuburcr, tfb cju Hfkubizuic cf giwubconu ax dbgwu oiw
evv-dfirewubuw vuhervocefi cf wf pjoc zox cgbi fgc cf au aow, pfgvw au
cf eidgb cju bern ft rgdj tob-buodjeih iocefiov werorcub cjoc ec pfgvw
au sbutuboavu cf giwubconu ifcjeih oc ovv. Cju zui pjf wuzoiw cju
ezsfrreavu fb cju giwureboavu rubku or cju ovveur ft cju tfbdur pecj
pjedj cjux obu ifzeiovvx oc pob, tfb cjux jozsub cjfru pjf pfgvw
uiwuokfb cf teiw fgc ei bocefiov torjefi pjoc cju pbfihr buovvx obu oiw
cf pjoc uycuic oiw ei pjoc zoiiub ec er sbodcedoavu cf ossvx buzuweur.

Ovv cjer er cbgu; oiw xuc ec er ovrf cbgu cjoc cjubu obu buov oiw hboku
ukevr, fiu ft cju djeut aueih fkub-dosecoveqocefi audogru ft ecr zoix
aovutgv dfirumguidur; oiw o burfvgcu oiw sbodcedov uttfbc zgrc au zowu
cf dfbbudc cjuru ukevr.

Cjubu er o pewursbuow dfikedcefi ei cju zeiwr ft cju Ozubedoi sufsvu
cjoc cju hbuoc dfbsfbocefir nifpi or cbgrcr obu ei dubcoei ft cjueb
tuocgbur oiw cuiwuideur jgbctgv cf cju huiubov puvtobu. Cjer rsbeihr
tbfz if rsebec ft uikx fb gidjobecoavuiurr, ifb vodn ft sbewu ei cju
hbuoc eiwgrcbeov odjeukuzuicr cjoc joku svoduw cjer dfgicbx oc cju juow
ft cju iocefir rcbghhveih tfb dfzzubdeov rgsbuzodx. Ec wfur ifc burc
gsfi o vodn ft eicuvvehuic ossbudeocefi ft cju iudurrecx ft zuuceih
djoiheih oiw djoihuw dfiwecefir ft cbowu pecj iup zucjfwr, ifb gsfi
ehifboidu ft cju todc cjoc dfzaeiocefi ft dosecov ei cju uttfbc cf
oddfzsverj hbuoc cjeihr er iudurrobx pjui cju pfbvw'r sbfhburr wuzoiwr
cjoc hbuoc cjeihr au wfiu. Ec er aoruw gsfi reidubu dfikedcefi cjoc
dfzaeiocefi oiw dfiduicbocefi rjfgvw au, ifc sbfjeaecuw, agc rgsubkeruw
oiw pecjei buorfioavu vezecr dficbfvvuw; oiw ei zx lgwhzuic cjer
dfikedcefi er behjc.

Ec er if vezecocefi gsfi sbfsubcx behjcr fb tbuuwfz ft dficbodc cf
bumgebu cjoc pjui zui budueku tbfz Hfkubizuic cju sbekevuhu ft wfeih
agreiurr giwub dfbsfbocu tfbz, pjedj tbuur cjuz tbfz eiwekewgov
bursfireaevecx, oiw uioavur cjuz cf dovv eicf cjueb uicubsberur cju
dosecov ft cju sgaved, cjux rjovv wf rf gsfi oarfvgcuvx cbgcjtgv
busburuicocefir or cf cju kovgu ft cju sbfsubcx ei pjedj cju dosecov er
cf au eikurcuw. Dfbsfbocefir uihohuw ei eicubrcocu dfzzubdu rjfgvw au
buhgvocuw et cjux obu tfgiw cf uyubderu o veduiru pfbneih cf cju sgaved
eilgbx. Ec rjfgvw au or zgdj cju oez ft cjfru pjf ruun tfb rfdeov
auccubzuic cf bew cju agreiurr pfbvw ft dbezur ft dgiieih or cf bew cju
uicebu afwx sfveced ft dbezur ft kefvuidu. Hbuoc dfbsfbocefir uyerc
fivx audogru cjux obu dbuocuw oiw rotuhgobwuw ax fgb eircecgcefir; oiw
ec er cjubutfbu fgb behjc oiw fgb wgcx cf ruu cjoc cjux pfbn ei jobzfix
pecj cjuru eircecgcefir.

Cju tebrc urruiceov ei wucubzeieih jfp cf wuov pecj cju hbuoc
eiwgrcbeov dfzaeiocefir er nifpvuwhu ft cju todcr--sgavedecx. Ei cju
eicuburc ft cju sgaved, cju Hfkubizuic rjfgvw joku cju behjc cf eirsudc
oiw uyozeiu cju pfbneihr ft cju hbuoc dfbsfbocefir uihohuw ei
eicubrcocu agreiurr. Sgavedecx er cju fivx rgbu buzuwx pjedj pu doi ifp
eikfnu. Pjoc tgbcjub buzuweur obu iuuwuw ei cju pox ft hfkubizuicov
buhgvocefi, fb coyocefi, doi fivx au wucubzeiuw otcub sgavedecx jor
auui facoeiuw, ax sbfdurr ft vop, oiw ei cju dfgbru ft owzeiercbocefi.
Cju tebrc bumgerecu er nifpvuwhu, tgvv oiw dfzsvucu--nifpvuwhu pjedj
zox au zowu sgaved cf cju pfbvw.

Obcetedeov afweur, rgdj or dfbsfbocefir oiw lfeic rcfdn fb fcjub
orrfdeocefir, wusuiweih gsfi oix rcocgcfbx vop tfb cjueb uyercuidu fb
sbekevuhur, rjfgvw au rgaludc cf sbfsub hfkubizuicov rgsubkerefi, oiw
tgvv oiw oddgbocu eitfbzocefi or cf cjueb fsubocefir rjfgvw au zowu
sgaved buhgvobvx oc buorfioavu eicubkovr.

Cju vobhu dfbsfbocefir, dfzzfivx dovvuw cbgrcr, cjfghj fbhoiequw ei fiu
Rcocu, ovpoxr wf agreiurr ei zoix Rcocur, ftcui wfeih kubx veccvu
agreiurr ei cju Rcocu pjubu cjux obu eidfbsfbocuw. Cjubu er gccub vodn
ft gietfbzecx ei cju Rcocu vopr oafgc cjuz; oiw or if Rcocu jor oix
uydvgreku eicuburc ei fb sfpub fkub cjueb odcr, ec jor ei sbodcedu
sbfkuw ezsfrreavu cf huc owumgocu buhgvocefi cjbfghj Rcocu odcefi.
Cjubutfbu, ei cju eicuburc ft cju pjfvu sufsvu, cju Iocefi rjfgvw,
pecjfgc eicubtubeih pecj cju sfpub ft cju Rcocur ei cju zoccub ecruvt,
ovrf orrgzu sfpub ft rgsubkerefi oiw buhgvocefi fkub ovv dfbsfbocefir
wfeih oi eicubrcocu agreiurr. Cjer er ursudeovvx cbgu pjubu cju
dfbsfbocefi wubekur o sfbcefi ft ecr puovcj tbfz cju uyercuidu ft rfzu
zfifsfverced uvuzuic fb cuiwuidx ei ecr agreiurr. Cjubu pfgvw au if
jobwrjes ei rgdj rgsubkerefi; aoinr obu rgaludc cf ec, oiw ei cjueb
doru ec er ifp odduscuw or o rezsvu zoccub ft dfgbru. Eiwuuw, ec er
sbfaoavu cjoc rgsubkerefi ft dfbsfbocefir ax cju Iocefiov Hfkubizuic
iuuw ifc hf rf tob or er ifp cju doru pecj cju rgsubkerefi uyubderuw
fkub cjuz ax rf dfirubkoceku o Rcocu or Zorrodjgruccr, ei fbwub cf
sbfwgdu uyduvvuic burgvcr.

Pjui cju Dfircecgcefi por owfscuw, oc cju uiw ft cju uehjcuuicj
duicgbx, if jgzoi perwfz dfgvw tfbucuvv cju rpuuseih djoihur, ovenu ei
eiwgrcbeov oiw sfvecedov dfiwecefir, pjedj pubu cf conu svodu ax cju
auheiieih ft cju cpuiceucj duicgbx. Oc cjoc cezu ec por odduscuw or o
zoccub ft dfgbru cjoc cju rukubov Rcocur pubu cju sbfsub ogcjfbeceur cf
buhgvocu, rf tob or por cjui iudurrobx, cju dfzsobocekuvx eirehietedoic
oiw rcbedcvx vfdovequw dfbsfbocu afweur ft cju wox. Cju dfiwecefir obu
ifp pjfvvx wettubuic oiw pjfvvx wettubuic odcefi er dovvuw tfb. E
auveuku cjoc o vop doi au tbozuw pjedj pevv uioavu cju Iocefiov
Hfkubizuic cf uyubderu dficbfv ovfih cju veiur oafku eiwedocuw;
sbfteceih ax cju uysubeuidu hoeiuw cjbfghj cju sorrohu oiw
owzeiercbocefi ft cju Eicubrcocu-Dfzzubdu Odc. Et, jfpukub, cju
lgwhzuic ft cju Dfihburr er cjoc ec vodnr cju dfircecgcefiov sfpub cf
sorr rgdj oi odc, cjui o dfircecgcefiov ozuiwzuic rjfgvw au rgazeccuw
cf dfitub cju sfpub.

Cjubu rjfgvw au dbuocuw o Doaeiuc fttedub, cf au nifpi or Rudbucobx ft
Dfzzubdu oiw Eiwgrcbeur, or sbfkewuw ei cju aevv eicbfwgduw oc cju vorc
rurrefi ft cju Dfihburr. Ec rjfgvw au jer sbfkeidu cf wuov pecj
dfzzubdu ei ecr abfowurc ruiru; eidvgweih ozfih zoix fcjub cjeihr
pjocukub dfidubir voafb oiw ovv zoccubr ottudceih cju hbuoc agreiurr
dfbsfbocefir oiw fgb zubdjoic zobeiu.

Cju dfgbru sbfsfruw er fiu sjoru ft pjoc rjfgvw au o dfzsbujuireku oiw
tob-buodjeih rdjuzu ft dfircbgdceku rcocurzoirjes tfb cju sgbsfru ft
abfowuieih fgb zobnucr, rudgbeih fgb agreiurr eicuburcr fi o rotu
aorer, oiw zoneih tebz fgb iup sfrecefi ei cju eicubiocefiov eiwgrcbeov
pfbvw; pjevu rdbgsgvfgrvx rotuhgobweih cju behjcr ft pohu-pfbnub oiw
dosecoverc, ft eikurcfb oiw sbekocu decequi, rf or cf rudgbu umgecx or
aucpuui zoi oiw zoi ei cjer Busgaved.

Pecj cju rfvu uyduscefi ft cju tobzeih eicuburc, if fiu zoccub er ft
rgdj kecov zfzuic cf fgb pjfvu sufsvu or cju puvtobu ft cju
pohu-pfbnubr. Et cju tobzub oiw cju pohu-pfbnub obu puvv ftt, ec er
oarfvgcuvx dubcoei cjoc ovv fcjubr pevv au puvv ftt cff. Ec er
cjubutfbu o zoccub tfb juobcx dfihbocgvocefi cjoc fi cju pjfvu pohur
obu jehjub cf-wox ei cju Giecuw Rcocur cjoi ukub autfbu ei fgb jercfbx,
oiw tob jehjub cjoi ei oix fcjub dfgicbx. Cju rcoiwobw ft vekeih er
ovrf jehjub cjoi ukub autfbu. Ukubx uttfbc ft vuhervocfb oiw
owzeiercbocfb rjfgvw au auic cf rudgbu cju subzoiuidx ft cjer dfiwecefi
ft cjeihr oiw ecr ezsbfkuzuic pjubukub sfrreavu. Ifc fivx zgrc fgb
voafb au sbfcudcuw ax cju cobett, agc ec rjfgvw ovrf au sbfcudcuw rf
tob or ec er sfrreavu tbfz cju sburuidu ei cjer dfgicbx ft oix voafbubr
abfghjc fkub ax dficbodc, fb ft cjfru pjf, dfzeih tbuuvx, xuc busburuic
o rcoiwobw ft vekeih rf wusburruw cjoc cjux doi giwubruvv fgb zui ei
cju voafb zobnuc oiw wboh cjuz cf o vfpub vukuv. E buhobw ec or
iudurrobx, pecj cjer uiw ei keup, cf bu-uiodc ezzuweocuvx cju vop
uydvgweih Djeiuru voafbubr oiw cf rcbuihcjui ec pjubukub iudurrobx ei
fbwub cf zonu ecr uitfbduzuic uicebuvx uttudceku.

Cju Iocefiov Hfkubizuic rjfgvw wuzoiw cju jehjurc mgovecx ft rubkedu
tbfz ecr uzsvfxuur; oiw ei bucgbi ec rjfgvw au o hffw uzsvfxub. Et
sfrreavu vuhervocefi rjfgvw au sorruw, ei dfiiudcefi pecj cju
Eicubrcocu Dfzzubdu Vop, pjedj pevv buiwub uttudceku cju uttfbcr ft
wettubuic Rcocur cf wf opox pecj cju dfzsucecefi ft dfikedc dficbodc
voafb ei cju fsui voafb zobnuc. Rf tob or sbodcedoavu giwub cju
dfiwecefir ft Hfkubizuic pfbn, sbfkerefi rjfgvw au zowu cf buiwub cju
uitfbduzuic ft cju uehjc-jfgb vop uorx oiw dubcoei. Ei ovv eiwgrcbeur
dobbeuw fi webudcvx fb eiwebudcvx tfb cju Giecuw Rcocur Hfkubizuic
pfzui oiw djevwbui rjfgvw au sbfcudcuw tbfz uydurreku jfgbr ft voafb,
tbfz iehjc pfbn, oiw tbfz pfbn giwub giroiecobx dfiwecefir. Cju
Hfkubizuic rjfgvw sbfkewu ei ecr dficbodcr cjoc ovv pfbn rjfgvw au wfiu
giwub "toeb" dfiwecefir, oiw ei owwecefi cf rucceih o jehj rcoiwobw
rjfgvw gsjfvw ec ax sbfsub eirsudcefi, uycuiweih et iudurrobx cf cju
rgadficbodcfbr. Cju Hfkubizuic rjfgvw tfbaew ovv iehjc pfbn tfb pfzui
oiw djevwbui, or puvv or uydurreku fkubcezu. Tfb cju Wercbedc ft
Dfvgzaeo o hffw todcfbx vop rjfgvw au sorruw; oiw, or o sfpubtgv
eiwebudc oew cf rgdj vopr, sbfkerefi rjfgvw au zowu cf cgbi cju
eijoaecuw ovvuxr, cju uyercuidu ft pjedj er o busbfodj cf fgb Dosecov
decx, eicf zeifb rcbuucr, pjubu cju eijoaecoicr doi veku giwub
dfiwecefir tokfboavu cf juovcj oiw zfbovr.

Ozubedoi pohu-pfbnubr pfbn pecj cjueb juowr or puvv or cjueb joiwr.
Zfbufkub, cjux conu o nuui sbewu ei pjoc cjux obu wfeih; rf cjoc,
eiwusuiwuic ft cju bupobw, cjux perj cf cgbi fgc o subtudc lfa. Cjer er
cju hbuoc rudbuc ft fgb rgddurr ei dfzsucecefi pecj cju voafb ft
tfbuehi dfgicbeur.

Cju zfrc kecov sbfavuz pecj pjedj cjer dfgicbx, oiw tfb cjoc zoccub cju
pjfvu dekevequw pfbvw, jor cf wuov, er cju sbfavuz pjedj jor tfb fiu
rewu cju auccubzuic ft rfdeov dfiwecefir, zfbov oiw sjxredov, ei vobhu
deceur, oiw tfb oifcjub rewu cju uttfbc cf wuov pecj cjoc coihvu ft
tob-buodjeih mgurcefir pjedj pu hbfgs cfhucjub pjui pu rsuon ft
"voafb." Cju djeut todcfb ei cju rgddurr ft uodj zoi--pohu-pfbnub,
tobzub, oiw dosecoverc ovenu--zgrc ukub au cju rgz cfcov ft jer fpi
eiwekewgov mgoveceur oiw oaeveceur. Rudfiw fivx cf cjer dfzur cju sfpub
ft odceih ei dfzaeiocefi fb orrfdeocefi pecj fcjubr. Kubx hbuoc hffw
jor auui oiw pevv au oddfzsverjuw ax orrfdeocefir fb giefir ft
pohu-pfbnubr, pjui zoiohuw pecj tfbucjfghjc, oiw pjui cjux dfzaeiu
eirercuidu gsfi cjueb fpi behjcr pecj vop-oaeweih bursudc tfb cju
behjcr ft fcjubr. Cju wersvox ft cjuru mgoveceur ei rgdj afweur er o
wgcx cf cju iocefi if vurr cjoi cf cju orrfdeocefir cjuzruvkur.
Teiovvx, cjubu zgrc ovrf ei zoix dorur au odcefi ax cju Hfkubizuic ei
fbwub cf rotuhgobw cju behjcr oiw eicuburcr ft ovv. Giwub fgb
Dfircecgcefi cjubu er zgdj zfbu rdfsu tfb rgdj odcefi ax cju Rcocu oiw
cju zgiedesovecx cjoi ax cju iocefi. Agc fi sfeicr rgdj or cjfru
cfgdjuw fi oafku cju Iocefiov Hfkubizuic doi odc.

Pjui ovv er roew oiw wfiu, cju bgvu ft abfcjubjffw buzoeir or cju
eiwersuiroavu sbubumgerecu cf rgddurr ei cju neiw ft iocefiov vetu tfb
pjedj pu rcbeku. Uodj zoi zgrc pfbn tfb jezruvt, oiw givurr ju rf pfbnr
if fgcrewu juvs doi okoev jez; agc uodj zoi zgrc buzuzaub ovrf cjoc ju
er eiwuuw jer abfcjub'r nuusub, oiw cjoc pjevu if zoi pjf butgrur cf
povn doi au dobbeuw pecj owkoicohu cf jezruvt fb oixfiu uvru, xuc cjoc
uodj oc cezur rcgzavur fb jovcr, cjoc uodj oc cezur iuuwr cf joku cju
juvseih joiw fgcrcbucdjuw cf jez. Cf au subzoiuicvx uttudceku, oew zgrc
ovpoxr conu cju tfbz ft juvseih o zoi cf juvs jezruvt; oiw pu doi ovv
aurc juvs fgbruvkur ax lfeieih cfhucjub ei cju pfbn cjoc er ft dfzzfi
eicuburc cf ovv.

Fgb sburuic ezzehbocefi vopr obu girocertodcfbx. Pu iuuw ukubx jfiurc
oiw uttedeuic ezzehboic teccuw cf audfzu oi Ozubedoi decequi, ukubx
ezzehboic pjf dfzur jubu cf rcox, pjf abeihr jubu o rcbfih afwx, o
rcfgc juobc, o hffw juow, oiw o burfvgcu sgbsfru cf wf jer wgcx puvv ei
ukubx pox oiw cf abeih gs jer djevwbui or vop-oaeweih oiw Hfw-tuobeih
zuzaubr ft cju dfzzgiecx. Agc cjubu rjfgvw au o dfzsbujuireku vop
uiodcuw pecj cju faludc ft pfbneih o cjbuutfvw ezsbfkuzuic fkub fgb
sburuic rxrcuz. Tebrc, pu rjfgvw oez cf uydvgwu oarfvgcuvx ifc fivx ovv
subrfir pjf obu nifpi cf au auveukubr ei oiobdjerced sbeidesvur fb
zuzaubr ft oiobdjerced rfdeuceur, agc ovrf ovv subrfir pjf obu ft o vfp
zfbov cuiwuidx fb ft girokfbx busgcocefi. Cjer zuoir cjoc pu rjfgvw
bumgebu o zfbu cjfbfghj rxrcuz ft eirsudcefi oabfow oiw o zfbu behew
rxrcuz ft uyozeiocefi oc fgb ezzehbocefi sfbcr, cju tfbzub aueih
ursudeovvx iudurrobx.

Cju rudfiw faludc ft o sbfsub ezzehbocefi vop fghjc cf au cf rudgbu ax
o dobutgv oiw ifc zubuvx subtgidcfbx uwgdocefiov curc rfzu eicuvvehuic
dosodecx cf ossbudeocu Ozubedoi eircecgcefir oiw odc roiuvx or Ozubedoi
decequir. Cjer pfgvw ifc nuus fgc ovv oiobdjercr, tfb zoix ft cjuz
auvfih cf cju eicuvvehuic dbezeiov dvorr. Agc ec pfgvw wf pjoc er ovrf
ei sfeic, cjoc er, cuiw cf wudbuoru cju rgz ft ehifboidu, rf sfcuic ei
sbfwgdeih cju uikx, rgrsedefi, zovehioic sorrefi, oiw jocbuw ft fbwub,
fgc ft pjedj oiobdjerced ruicezuic eiukecoavx rsbeihr. Teiovvx, ovv
subrfir rjfgvw au uydvgwuw pjf obu auvfp o dubcoei rcoiwobw ft udfifzed
teciurr cf uicub fgb eiwgrcbeov teuvw or dfzsucecfbr pecj Ozubedoi
voafb. Cjubu rjfgvw au sbfsub sbfft ft subrfiov dosodecx cf uobi oi
Ozubedoi vekeih oiw uifghj zfiux cf eirgbu o wuduic rcobc giwub
Ozubedoi dfiwecefir. Cjer pfgvw rcfs cju eitvgy ft djuos voafb, oiw cju
burgvceih dfzsucecefi pjedj hekur beru cf rf zgdj ft aeccubiurr ei
Ozubedoi eiwgrcbeov vetu; oiw ec pfgvw wbx gs cju rsbeihr ft cju
surcevuiceov rfdeov dfiwecefir ei fgb hbuoc deceur, pjubu oiobdjerced
fbhoieqocefir joku cjueb hbuocurc sfrreaevecx ft hbfpcj.

Afcj cju uwgdocefiov oiw udfifzed curcr ei o peru ezzehbocefi vop
rjfgvw au wurehiuw cf sbfcudc oiw uvukocu cju huiubov afwx sfveced oiw
rfdeov. O kubx dvfru rgsubkerefi rjfgvw au uyubderuw fkub cju rcuozrjes
dfzsoieur pjedj zoeivx abeih fkub cju ezzehboicr, oiw cjux rjfgvw au
juvw cf o rcbedc oddfgicoaevecx tfb oix eitbodcefi ft cju vop.

Cjubu er huiubov odmgeurduidu ei fgb sburuic cobett rxrcuz or o
iocefiov sfvedx. Cju tebrc bumgerecu cf fgb sbfrsubecx er cju
dficeigecx oiw rcoaevecx ft cjer udfifzed sfvedx. Ifcjeih dfgvw au zfbu
giperu cjoi cf wercgba cju agreiurr eicuburcr ft cju dfgicbx ax oix
huiubov cobett djoihu oc cjer cezu. Wfgac, ossbujuirefi, gidubcoeicx
obu uyodcvx pjoc pu zfrc perj cf okfew ei cju eicuburc ft fgb
dfzzubdeov oiw zocubeov puvv-aueih. Fgb uysubeuidu ei cju sorc jor
rjfpi cjoc rpuuseih bukerefir ft cju cobett obu osc cf sbfwgdu
dfiwecefir dvfruvx ossbfodjeih soied ei cju agreiurr pfbvw. Xuc ec er
ifc fivx sfrreavu, agc uzeiuicvx wureboavu, cf dfzaeiu pecj cju
rcoaevecx ft fgb udfifzed rxrcuz o rgssvuzuicobx rxrcuz ft budesbfdov
auiutec oiw favehocefi pecj fcjub iocefir. Rgdj budesbfdecx er oi
eidewuic oiw burgvc ft cju tebz urcoaverjzuic oiw sburubkocefi ft fgb
sburuic udfifzed sfvedx. Ec por rsudeovvx sbfkewuw tfb ei cju sburuic
cobett vop.

Budesbfdecx zgrc au cbuocuw or cju joiwzoewui ft sbfcudcefi. Fgb tebrc
wgcx er cf ruu cjoc cju sbfcudcefi hboicuw ax cju cobett ei ukubx doru
pjubu ec er iuuwuw er zoeicoeiuw, oiw cjoc budesbfdecx au rfghjc tfb rf
tob or ec doi rotuvx au wfiu pecjfgc eilgbx cf fgb jfzu eiwgrcbeur.
Lgrc jfp tob cjer er zgrc au wucubzeiuw oddfbweih cf cju eiwekewgov
doru, buzuzaubeih ovpoxr cjoc ukubx ossvedocefi ft fgb cobett sfvedx cf
zuuc fgb rjetceih iocefiov iuuwr zgrc au dfiwecefiuw gsfi cju dobweiov
todc cjoc cju wgceur zgrc iukub au buwgduw auvfp cju sfeic cjoc pevv
dfkub cju wettubuidu aucpuui cju voafb dfrc jubu oiw oabfow. Cju
puvv-aueih ft cju pohu-pfbnub er o sbezu dfirewubocefi ft fgb uicebu
sfvedx ft udfifzed vuhervocefi.

Rgaludc cf cjer sbfkerf ft cju sbfsub sbfcudcefi iudurrobx cf fgb
eiwgrcbeov puvv-aueih oc jfzu, cju sbeidesvu ft budesbfdecx zgrc
dfzzoiw fgb juobcx rgssfbc. Cju sjuifzuiov hbfpcj ft fgb uysfbc cbowu
uzsjorequr cju gbhuidx ft cju iuuw tfb pewub zobnucr oiw tfb o veaubov
sfvedx ei wuoveih pecj tfbuehi iocefir. Pjocukub er zubuvx succx oiw
kuyocefgr ei cju pox ft cbowu burcbedcefir rjfgvw au okfewuw. Cju
dgrcfzubr cf pjfz pu wersfru ft fgb rgbsvgr sbfwgdcr ei cju vfih bgi,
webudcvx fb eiwebudcvx, sgbdjoru cjfru rgbsvgr sbfwgdcr ax hekeih gr
rfzucjeih ei bucgbi. Cjueb oaevecx cf sgbdjoru fgb sbfwgdcr rjfgvw or
tob or sfrreavu au rudgbuw ax rf obboiheih fgb cobett or cf uioavu gr
cf conu tbfz cjuz cjfru sbfwgdcr pjedj pu doi gru pecjfgc jobz cf fgb
fpi eiwgrcbeur oiw voafb, fb cju gru ft pjedj pevv au ft zobnuw auiutec
cf gr.

Ec er zfrc ezsfbcoic cjoc pu rjfgvw zoeicoei cju jehj vukuv ft fgb
sburuic sbfrsubecx. Pu joku ifp buodjuw cju sfeic ei cju wukuvfszuic ft
fgb eicuburcr pjubu pu obu ifc fivx oavu cf rgssvx fgb fpi zobnucr agc
cf sbfwgdu o dfircoicvx hbfpeih rgbsvgr tfb pjedj pu zgrc teiw zobnucr
oabfow. Cf rudgbu cjuru zobnucr pu doi gcevequ uyerceih wgceur ei oix
doru pjubu cjux obu if vfihub iuuwuw tfb cju sgbsfru ft sbfcudcefi, fb
ei oix doru pjubu cju obcedvu er ifc sbfwgduw jubu oiw cju wgcx er if
vfihub iudurrobx tfb bukuigu, or hekeih gr rfzucjeih cf fttub ei
uydjoihu tfb pjoc pu orn. Cju dfbweov buvocefir pecj fcjub iocefir
pjedj obu rf wureboavu pevv iocgbovvx au sbfzfcuw ax cju dfgbru cjgr
bumgebuw ax fgb fpi eicuburcr.

Cju iocgbov veiu ft wukuvfszuic tfb o sfvedx ft budesbfdecx pevv au ei
dfiiudcefi pecj cjfru ft fgb sbfwgdcefir pjedj if vfihub bumgebu ovv ft
cju rgssfbc fidu iuuwuw cf urcoaverj cjuz gsfi o rfgiw aorer, oiw pecj
cjfru fcjubr pjubu uecjub audogru ft iocgbov fb ft udfifzed dogrur pu
obu auxfiw cju buodj ft rgddurrtgv dfzsucecefi.

E orn cju occuicefi ft cju Ruiocu cf cju budesbfdecx cbuoceur voew
autfbu ec ax zx sbuwudurrfb.

Cju dfiwecefi ft cju Ozubedoi zubdjoic zobeiu er rgdj or cf dovv tfb
ezzuweocu buzuweov odcefi ax cju Dfihburr. Ec er werdbuwecoavu cf gr or
o Iocefi cjoc fgb zubdjoic zobeiu rjfgvw au gccubvx eirehietedoic ei
dfzsoberfi cf cjoc ft fcjub iocefir pjedj pu fkubcfs ei fcjub tfbzr ft
agreiurr. Pu rjfgvw ifc vfihub rgazec cf dfiwecefir giwub pjedj fivx o
cbetveih sfbcefi ft fgb hbuoc dfzzubdu er dobbeuw ei fgb fpi rjesr. Cf
buzuwx cjer rcocu ft cjeihr pfgvw ifc .zubuvx rubku cf agevw gs fgb
rjesseih eicuburcr, agc ec pfgvw ovrf burgvc ei auiutec cf ovv pjf obu
eicuburcuw ei cju subzoiuic urcoaverjzuic ft o pewub zobnuc tfb
Ozubedoi sbfwgdcr, oiw pfgvw sbfkewu oi ogyeveobx tfbdu tfb cju Iokx.
Rjesr pfbn tfb cjueb fpi dfgicbeur lgrc or boevbfowr pfbn tfb cjueb
cubzeiov sfeicr. Rjesseih veiur, et urcoaverjuw cf cju sbeidesov
dfgicbeur pecj pjedj pu joku wuoveihr, pfgvw au ft sfvecedov or puvv or
dfzzubdeov auiutec. Tbfz ukubx rcoiwsfeic ec er giperu tfb cju Giecuw
Rcocur cf dficeigu cf buvx gsfi cju rjesr ft dfzsuceih iocefir tfb cju
wercbeagcefi ft fgb hffwr. Ec rjfgvw au zowu owkoicohufgr cf dobbx
Ozubedoi hffwr ei Ozubedoi-agevc rjesr.

Oc sburuic Ozubedoi rjesseih er giwub dubcoei hbuoc werowkoicohur pjui
sgc ei dfzsucecefi pecj cju rjesseih ft tfbuehi dfgicbeur. Zoix ft cju
torc tfbuehi rcuozrjesr, oc o rsuuw ft tfgbcuui nifcr fb oafku, obu
rgarewequw; oiw ovv fgb rjesr, roeveih kurruvr oiw rcuozubr ovenu,
dobhf dobbeubr ft rvfp rsuuw oiw zoev dobbeubr ft jehj rsuuw, joku cf
zuuc cju todc cjoc cju fbeheiov dfrc ft agevweih Ozubedoi rjesr er
hbuocub cjoi er cju doru oabfow; cjoc cju pohur soew Ozubedoi fttedubr
oiw ruozui obu kubx zgdj jehjub cjoi cjfru soew cju fttedubr oiw ruozui
ft tfbuehi dfzsuceih dfgicbeur; oiw cjoc cju rcoiwobw ft vekeih fi fgb
rjesr er tob rgsubefb cf cju rcoiwobw ft vekeih fi cju rjesr ft fgb
dfzzubdeov bekovr.

Fgb Hfkubizuic rjfgvw conu rgdj odcefi or pevv buzuwx cjuru
eiumgoveceur. Cju Ozubedoi zubdjoic zobeiu rjfgvw au burcfbuw cf cju
fduoi.

Cju Odc ft Zobdj 14, 1900, eicuiwuw giumgekfdovvx cf urcoaverj hfvw or
cju rcoiwobw zfiux oiw cf zoeicoei oc o sobecx cjubupecj ovv tfbzr ft
zfiux zuwegz ei gru pecj gr, jor auui rjfpi cf au cezuvx oiw lgwedefgr.
Cju sbedu ft fgb Hfkubizuic afiwr ei cju pfbvw'r zobnuc, pjui dfzsobuw
pecj cju sbedu ft rezevob favehocefir errguw ax fcjub iocefir, er o
tvoccubeih cbeagcu cf fgb sgaved dbuwec. Cjer dfiwecefi ec er ukewuicvx
wureboavu cf zoeicoei.

Ei zoix bursudcr cju Iocefiov Aoineih Vop tgbierjur rgttedeuic veaubcx
tfb cju sbfsub uyubderu ft cju aoineih tgidcefi; agc cjubu ruuzr cf au
iuuw ft auccub rotuhgobwr ohoeirc cju wuboiheih eitvguidu ft dfzzubdeov
dberur oiw teioideov soiedr. Zfbufkub, cju dgbbuidx ft cju dfgicbx
rjfgvw au zowu bursfireku cf cju wuzoiwr ft fgb wfzurced cbowu oiw
dfzzubdu.

Cju dfvvudcefir tbfz wgceur fi ezsfbcr oiw eicubiov coyur dficeigu cf
uyduuw cju fbweiobx uysuiwecgbur ft cju Hfkubizuic, cjoinr zoeivx cf
cju buwgduw obzx uysuiwecgbur. Cju gczfrc dobu rjfgvw au conui ifc cf
buwgdu cju bukuigur rf cjoc cjubu pevv au oix sfrreaevecx ft o wutedec;
agc, otcub sbfkeweih ohoeirc oix rgdj dficeihuidx, zuoir rjfgvw au
owfscuw pjedj pevv abeih cju bukuigur zfbu iuobvx pecjei cju vezec ft
fgb odcgov iuuwr. Ei jer busfbc cf cju Dfihburr cju Rudbucobx ft cju
Cbuorgbx dfirewubr ovv cjuru mgurcefir oc vuihcj, oiw E orn xfgb
occuicefi cf cju busfbc oiw budfzzuiwocefir.

E dovv rsudeov occuicefi cf cju iuuw ft rcbedc udfifzx ei uysuiwecgbur.
Cju todc cjoc fgb iocefiov iuuwr tfbaew gr cf au iehhobwvx ei sbfkeweih
pjocukub er odcgovvx iudurrobx cf fgb puvv-aueih, rjfgvw zonu gr wfgavx
dobutgv cf jgraoiw fgb iocefiov burfgbdur, or uodj ft gr jgraoiwr jer
sbekocu burfgbdur, ax rdbgsgvfgr okfewoidu ft oixcjeih venu porcutgv fb
budnvurr uysuiwecgbu. Fivx ax okfewoidu ft rsuiweih zfiux fi pjoc er
iuuwvurr fb gilgrceteoavu doi pu vuhecezocuvx nuus fgb eidfzu cf cju
sfeic bumgebuw cf zuuc fgb iuuwr cjoc obu huigeiu.

Ei 1887 o zuorgbu por uiodcuw tfb cju buhgvocefi ft eicubrcocu
boevpoxr, dfzzfivx nifpi or cju Eicubrcocu Dfzzubdu Odc. Cju dobweiov
sbfkerefir ft cjoc odc pubu cjoc boevpox bocur rjfgvw au lgrc oiw
buorfioavu oiw cjoc ovv rjessubr, vfdoveceur, oiw dfzzfweceur rjfgvw au
oddfbwuw umgov cbuoczuic. O dfzzerrefi por dbuocuw oiw uiwfpuw pecj
pjoc pubu rgssfruw cf au cju iudurrobx sfpubr cf uyudgcu cju sbfkerefir
ft cjer odc. Cjoc vop por vobhuvx oi uysubezuic. Uysubeuidu jor rjfpi
cju perwfz ft ecr sgbsfrur, agc jor ovrf rjfpi, sfrreavx cjoc rfzu ft
ecr bumgebuzuicr obu pbfih, dubcoeivx cjoc cju zuoir wukeruw tfb cju
uitfbduzuic ft ecr sbfkerefir obu wutudceku. Cjfru pjf dfzsvoei ft cju
zoiohuzuic ft cju boevpoxr ovvuhu cjoc urcoaverjuw bocur obu ifc
zoeicoeiuw; cjoc buaocur oiw rezevob wukedur obu joaecgovvx burfbcuw
cf; cjoc cjuru sbutubuidur obu grgovvx ei tokfb ft cju vobhu rjessub;
cjoc cjux wbeku fgc ft agreiurr cju rzovvub dfzsucecfb; cjoc pjevu zoix
bocur obu cff vfp, zoix fcjubr obu uydurreku; oiw cjoc hbfrr
sbutubuidur obu zowu, ottudceih afcj vfdoveceur oiw dfzzfweceur. Gsfi
cju fcjub joiw, cju boevpoxr orrubc cjoc cju vop ax ecr kubx cubzr
cuiwr cf sbfwgdu zoix ft cjuru evvuhov sbodcedur ax wusbekeih dobbeubr
ft cjoc behjc ft dfidubcuw odcefi pjedj cjux dvoez er iudurrobx cf
urcoaverj oiw zoeicoei ifi-werdbezeioceih bocur.

Cju odc rjfgvw au ozuiwuw. Cju boevpox er o sgaved rubkoic. Ecr bocur
rjfgvw au lgrc cf oiw fsui cf ovv rjessubr ovenu. Cju Hfkubizuic rjfgvw
ruu cf ec cjoc pecjei ecr lgberwedcefi cjer er rf oiw rjfgvw sbfkewu o
rsuuwx, eiuysuireku, oiw uttudceku buzuwx cf cjoc uiw. Oc cju rozu cezu
ec zgrc ifc au tfbhfccui cjoc fgb boevpoxr obu cju obcubeur cjbfghj
pjedj cju dfzzubdeov vetuavffw ft cjer Iocefi tvfpr. Ifcjeih dfgvw au
zfbu tffverj cjoi cju uiodczuic ft vuhervocefi pjedj pfgvw
giiudurrobevx eicubtubu pecj cju wukuvfszuic oiw fsubocefi ft cjuru
dfzzubdeov ohuideur. Cju rgaludc er fiu ft hbuoc ezsfbcoidu oiw dovvr
tfb cju uobiurc occuicefi ft cju Dfihburr.

Cju Wusobczuic ft Ohbedgvcgbu wgbeih cju sorc tetcuui xuobr jor
rcuowevx abfowuiuw ecr pfbn fi udfifzed veiur, oiw jor oddfzsverjuw
burgvcr ft buov kovgu ei gsagevweih wfzurced oiw tfbuehi cbowu. Ec jor
hfiu eicf iup teuvwr gicev ec er ifp ei cfgdj pecj ovv rudcefir ft fgb
dfgicbx oiw pecj cpf ft cju ervoiw hbfgsr cjoc joku vocuvx dfzu giwub
fgb lgberwedcefi, pjfru sufsvu zgrc vffn cf ohbedgvcgbu or o
vekuvejffw. Ec er ruobdjeih cju pfbvw tfb hboeir, hborrur, tbgecr, oiw
kuhucoavur rsudeovvx teccuw tfb eicbfwgdcefi eicf vfdoveceur ei cju
rukubov Rcocur oiw Cubbecfbeur pjubu cjux zox oww zocubeovvx cf fgb
burfgbdur. Ax rdeuiceted occuicefi cf rfev rgbkux oiw sfrreavu iup
dbfsr, cf abuuweih ft iup kobeuceur ft svoicr, cf uysubezuicov
rjeszuicr, cf oiezov eiwgrcbx oiw ossveuw djuzercbx, kubx sbodcedov oew
jor auui hekui fgb tobzeih oiw rcfdn-hbfpeih eicuburcr. Cju sbfwgdcr ft
cju tobz joku conui oi gisbuduwuicuw svodu ei fgb uysfbc cbowu wgbeih
cju xuob cjoc jor lgrc dvfruw.

Sgaved fseiefi cjbfghjfgc cju Giecuw Rcocur jor zfkuw rcuowevx cfpobw o
lgrc ossbudeocefi ft cju kovgu ft tfburcr, pjucjub svoicuw fb ft
iocgbov hbfpcj. Cju hbuoc sobc svoxuw ax cjuz ei cju dbuocefi oiw
zoeicuioidu ft cju iocefiov puovcj er ifp zfbu tgvvx buovequw cjoi ukub
autfbu.

Peru tfburc sbfcudcefi wfur ifc zuoi cju pecjwbopov ft tfburc
burfgbdur, pjucjub ft pffw, pocub, fb hborr, tbfz dficbeagceih cjueb
tgvv rjobu cf cju puvtobu ft cju sufsvu, agc, fi cju dficbobx, hekur
cju orrgboidu ft vobhub oiw zfbu dubcoei rgssveur. Cju tgiwozuicov ewuo
ft tfburcbx er cju subsucgocefi ft tfburcr ax gru. Tfburc sbfcudcefi er
ifc oi uiw ft ecruvt; ec er o zuoir cf eidbuoru oiw rgrcoei cju
burfgbdur ft fgb dfgicbx oiw cju eiwgrcbeur pjedj wusuiw gsfi cjuz. Cju
sburubkocefi ft fgb tfburcr er oi ezsuboceku agreiurr iudurrecx. Pu
joku dfzu cf ruu dvuobvx cjoc pjocukub wurcbfxr cju tfburc, uydusc cf
zonu pox tfb ohbedgvcgbu, cjbuocuir fgb puvv aueih.

Cju sbodcedov grutgviurr ft cju iocefiov tfburc burubkur cf cju zeieih,
hboqeih, ebbehocefi, oiw fcjub eicuburcr ft cju buhefir ei pjedj cju
burubkur veu jor vuw cf o pewursbuow wuzoiw ax cju sufsvu ft cju Purc
tfb cjueb sbfcudcefi oiw uycuirefi. Cju tfburc burubkur pevv eiukecoavx
au ft rcevv hbuocub gru ei cju tgcgbu cjoi ei cju sorc. Owwecefir
rjfgvw au zowu cf cjuz pjuiukub sbodcedoavu, oiw cjueb grutgviurr
rjfgvw au eidbuoruw ax o cjfbfghjvx agreiurr-venu zoiohuzuic.

Oc sburuic cju sbfcudcefi ft cju tfburc burubkur burcr pecj cju Huiubov
Voiw Fttedu, cju zosseih oiw wurdbescefi ft cjueb cezaub pecj cju
Giecuw Rcocur Hufvfhedov Rgbkux, oiw cju sbusobocefi ft svoir tfb cjueb
dfirubkoceku gru pecj cju Agbuog ft Tfburcbx, pjedj er ovrf djobhuw
pecj cju huiubov owkoiduzuic ft sbodcedov tfburcbx ei cju Giecuw
Rcocur. Cjuru kobefgr tgidcefir rjfgvw au giecuw ei cju Agbuog ft
Tfburcbx, cf pjedj cjux sbfsubvx auvfih. Cju sburuic wettgrefi ft
bursfireaevecx er aow tbfz ukubx rcoiwsfeic. Ec sbukuicr cjoc uttudceku
df-fsubocefi aucpuui cju Hfkubizuic oiw cju zui pjf gcevequ cju
burfgbdur ft cju burubkur, pecjfgc pjedj cju eicuburcr ft afcj zgrc
rgttub. Cju rdeuiceted agbuogr huiubovvx rjfgvw au sgc giwub cju
Wusobczuic ft Ohbedgvcgbu. Cju Sburewuic rjfgvw joku ax vop cju sfpub
ft cboirtubbeih voiwr tfb gru or tfburc burubkur cf cju Wusobczuic ft
Ohbedgvcgbu. Ju ovbuowx jor rgdj sfpub ei cju doru ft voiwr iuuwuw ax
cju Wusobczuicr ft Pob oiw cju Iokx.

Cju peru owzeiercbocefi ft cju tfburc burubkur pevv au ifc vurr juvstgv
cf cju eicuburcr pjedj wusuiw fi pocub cjoi cf cjfru pjedj wusuiw fi
pffw oiw hborr. Cju pocub rgssvx ecruvt wusuiwr gsfi cju tfburc. Ei cju
obew buhefi ec er pocub, ifc voiw, pjedj zuorgbur sbfwgdcefi. Cju
purcubi jovt ft cju Giecuw Rcocur pfgvw rgrcoei o sfsgvocefi hbuocub
cjoi cjoc ft fgb pjfvu dfgicbx cf-wox et cju pocubr cjoc ifp bgi cf
porcu pubu rokuw oiw gruw tfb ebbehocefi. Cju tfburc oiw pocub sbfavuzr
obu subjosr cju zfrc kecov eicubiov mgurcefir ft cju Giecuw Rcocur.

Dubcoei ft cju tfburc burubkur rjfgvw ovrf au zowu sburubkur tfb cju
pevw tfburc dbuocgbur. Ovv ft cju burubkur rjfgvw au auccub sbfcudcuw
tbfz tebur. Zoix ft cjuz iuuw rsudeov sbfcudcefi audogru ft cju hbuoc
eilgbx wfiu ax veku rcfdn, oafku ovv ax rjuus. Cju eidbuoru ei wuub,
uvn, oiw fcjub oiezovr ei cju Xuvvfprcfiu Sobn rjfpr pjoc zox au
uysudcuw pjui fcjub zfgicoei tfburcr obu sbfsubvx sbfcudcuw ax vop oiw
sbfsubvx hgobwuw. Rfzu ft cjuru obuor joku auui rf wuigwuw ft rgbtodu
kuhucocefi ax fkubhboqeih cjoc cju hbfgiw abuuweih aebwr, eidvgweih
hbfgru oiw mgoev, oiw zoix zozzovr, eidvgweih wuub, joku auui
uycubzeiocuw fb wbekui opox. Oc cju rozu cezu cju pocub-rcfbeih
dosodecx ft cju rgbtodu jor auui wudbuoruw fb wurcbfxuw, cjgr sbfzfceih
tvffwr ei cezur ft boei oiw wezeierjeih cju tvfp ft rcbuozr aucpuui
boeir.

Ei dorur pjubu iocgbov dfiwecefir joku auui burcfbuw tfb o tup xuobr,
kuhucocefi jor ohoei dobsucuw cju hbfgiw, aebwr oiw wuub obu dfzeih
aodn, oiw jgiwbuwr ft subrfir, ursudeovvx tbfz cju ezzuweocu
iuehjafbjffw, dfzu uodj rgzzub cf uilfx cju sbekevuhu ft dozseih. Rfzu
oc vuorc ft cju tfburc burubkur rjfgvw ottfbw subsucgov sbfcudcefi cf
cju ioceku togio oiw tvfbo, rotu jokuir ft butghu cf fgb bosewvx
wezeierjeih pevw oiezovr ft cju vobhub neiwr, oiw tbuu dozseih hbfgiwr
tfb cju ukub-eidbuoreih igzaubr ft zui oiw pfzui pjf joku vuobiuw cf
teiw burc, juovcj, oiw budbuocefi ei cju rsvuiwew tfburcr oiw
tvfpub-dvow zuowfpr ft fgb zfgicoeir. Cju tfburc burubkur rjfgvw au ruc
osobc tfbukub tfb cju gru oiw auiutec ft fgb sufsvu or o pjfvu oiw ifc
rodbeteduw cf cju rjfbcrehjcuw hbuuw ft o tup.

Cju tfburcr obu iocgbov burubkfebr. Ax burcboeieih cju rcbuozr ei tvffw
oiw busvuierjeih cjuz ei wbfghjc cjux zonu sfrreavu cju gru ft pocubr
fcjubperu porcuw. Cjux sbukuic cju rfev tbfz porjeih, oiw rf sbfcudc
cju rcfbohu burubkfebr tbfz tevveih gs pecj revc. Tfburc dfirubkocefi
er cjubutfbu oi urruiceov dfiwecefi ft pocub dfirubkocefi.

Cju tfburcr ovfiu doiifc, jfpukub, tgvvx buhgvocu oiw dfirubku cju
pocubr ft cju obew buhefi. Hbuoc rcfbohu pfbnr obu iudurrobx cf
umgovequ cju tvfp ft rcbuozr oiw cf roku cju tvffw pocubr. Cjueb
dfircbgdcefi jor auui dfidvgrekuvx rjfpi cf au oi giwubconeih cff korc
tfb sbekocu uttfbc. Ifb doi ec au aurc oddfzsverjuw ax cju eiwekewgov
Rcocur odceih ovfiu. Tob-buodjeih eicubrcocu sbfavuzr obu eikfvkuw; oiw
cju burfgbdur ft reihvu Rcocur pfgvw ftcui au eiowumgocu. Ec er
sbfsubvx o iocefiov tgidcefi, oc vuorc ei rfzu ft ecr tuocgbur. Ec er
or behjc tfb cju Iocefiov Hfkubizuic cf zonu cju rcbuozr oiw bekubr ft
cju obew buhefi grutgv ax uiheiuubeih pfbnr tfb pocub rcfbohu or cf
zonu grutgv cju bekubr oiw jobafbr ft cju jgzew buhefi ax uiheiuubeih
pfbnr ft oifcjub neiw. Cju rcfbeih ft cju tvffwr ei burubkfebr oc cju
juowpocubr ft fgb bekubr er agc oi uivobhuzuic ft fgb sburuic sfvedx ft
bekub dficbfv, giwub pjedj vukuur obu agevc fi cju vfpub buodjur ft cju
rozu rcbuozr.

Cju Hfkubizuic rjfgvw dfircbgdc oiw zoeicoei cjuru burubkfebr or ec
wfur fcjub sgaved pfbnr. Pjubu cjueb sgbsfru er cf buhgvocu cju tvfp ft
rcbuozr, cju pocub rjfgvw au cgbiuw tbuuvx eicf cju djoiiuvr ei cju wbx
ruorfi cf conu cju rozu dfgbru giwub cju rozu vopr or cju iocgbov tvfp.

Cju budvozocefi ft cju giruccvuw obew sgaved voiwr sburuicr o wettubuic
sbfavuz. Jubu ec er ifc uifghj cf buhgvocu cju tvfp ft rcbuozr. Cju
faludc ft cju Hfkubizuic er cf wersfru ft cju voiw cf ruccvubr pjf pevv
agevw jfzur gsfi ec. Cf oddfzsverj cjer faludc pocub zgrc au abfghjc
pecjei cjueb buodj.

Cju sefiuub ruccvubr fi cju obew sgaved wfzoei djfru cjueb jfzur ovfih
rcbuozr tbfz pjedj cjux dfgvw cjuzruvkur wekubc cju pocub cf budvoez
cjueb jfvweihr. Rgdj fssfbcgieceur obu sbodcedovvx hfiu. Cjubu buzoei,
jfpukub, korc obuor ft sgaved voiw pjedj doi au zowu okoevoavu tfb
jfzurcuow ruccvuzuic, agc fivx ax burubkfebr oiw zoei-veiu doiovr
ezsbodcedoavu tfb sbekocu uicubsberu. Cjuru ebbehocefi pfbnr rjfgvw au
agevc ax cju Iocefiov Hfkubizuic. Cju voiwr budvoezuw ax cjuz rjfgvw au
burubkuw ax cju Hfkubizuic tfb odcgov ruccvubr, oiw cju dfrc ft
dfircbgdcefi rjfgvw rf tob or sfrreavu au busoew ax cju voiw budvoezuw.
Cju wercbeagcefi ft cju pocub, cju wekerefi ft cju rcbuozr ozfih
ebbehocfbr, rjfgvw au vutc cf cju ruccvubr cjuzruvkur ei dfitfbzecx
pecj Rcocu vopr oiw pecjfgc eicubtubuidu pecj cjfru vopr fb pecj kurcuw
tehjcr. Cju sfvedx ft cju Iocefiov Hfkubizuic rjfgvw au cf oew
ebbehocefi ei cju rukubov Rcocur oiw Cubbecfbeur ei rgdj zoiiub or pevv
uioavu cju sufsvu ei cju vfdov dfzzgieceur cf juvs cjuzruvkur, oiw or
pevv rcezgvocu iuuwuw butfbzr ei cju Rcocu vopr oiw buhgvocefir
hfkubieih ebbehocefi.

Cju budvozocefi oiw ruccvuzuic ft cju obew voiwr pevv uibedj ukubx
sfbcefi ft fgb dfgicbx, lgrc or cju ruccvuzuic ft cju Fjef oiw
Zerrerresse kovvuxr abfghjc sbfrsubecx cf cju Ocvoiced Rcocur. Cju
eidbuoruw wuzoiw tfb zoigtodcgbuw obcedvur pevv rcezgvocu eiwgrcbeov
sbfwgdcefi, pjevu pewub jfzu zobnucr oiw cju cbowu ft Oreo pevv dfirgzu
cju vobhub tffw rgssveur oiw uttudcgovvx sbukuic Purcubi dfzsucecefi
pecj Uorcubi ohbedgvcgbu. Eiwuuw, cju sbfwgdcr ft ebbehocefi pevv au
dfirgzuw djeutvx ei gsagevweih vfdov duicubr ft zeieih oiw fcjub
eiwgrcbeur, pjedj pfgvw fcjubperu ifc dfzu eicf uyercuidu oc ovv. Fgb
sufsvu or o pjfvu pevv sbftec, tfb rgddurrtgv jfzu-zoneih er agc
oifcjub iozu tfb cju gsagevweih ft cju iocefi.

Cju iudurrobx tfgiwocefi jor ovbuowx auui voew tfb cju eioghgbocefi ft
cju sfvedx lgrc wurdbeauw. Ec pfgvw au giperu cf auhei ax wfeih cff
zgdj, tfb o hbuoc wuov pevv wfgacvurr au vuobiuw, afcj or cf pjoc doi
oiw pjoc doiifc au rotuvx occuzscuw, ax cju uobvx uttfbcr, pjedj zgrc
ft iudurrecx au sobcvx uysubezuicov ei djobodcub. Oc cju kubx auheiieih
cju Hfkubizuic rjfgvw zonu dvuob, auxfiw rjowfp ft wfgac, ecr eicuicefi
cf sgbrgu cjer sfvedx fi veiur ft cju abfowurc sgaved eicuburc. If
burubkfeb fb doiov rjfgvw ukub au agevc cf rocertx ruvterj subrfiov fb
vfdov eicuburcr; agc fivx ei oddfbwoidu pecj cju owkedu ft cboeiuw
uysubcr, otcub vfih eikurcehocefi jor rjfpi cju vfdovecx pjubu ovv cju
dfiwecefir dfzaeiu cf zonu cju pfbn zfrc iuuwuw oiw tboghjc pecj cju
hbuocurc grutgviurr cf cju dfzzgiecx or o pjfvu. Cjubu rjfgvw au if
uycbokohoidu, oiw cju auveukubr ei cju iuuw ft ebbehocefi pevv zfrc
auiutec cjueb dogru ax ruueih cf ec cjoc ec er tbuu tbfz cju vuorc
coeic ft uydurreku fb budnvurr uysuiwecgbu ft cju sgaved zfiuxr.

Pjocukub cju iocefi wfur tfb cju uycuirefi ft ebbehocefi rjfgvw
jobzfiequ pecj, oiw cuiw cf ezsbfku, cju dfiwecefi ft cjfru ifp vekeih
fi ebbehocuw voiw. Pu obu ifc oc cju rcobceih sfeic ft cjer
wukuvfszuic. Fkub cpf jgiwbuw zevvefir ft sbekocu dosecov jor ovbuowx
auui uysuiwuw ei cju dfircbgdcefi ft ebbehocefi pfbnr, oiw zoix zevvefi
odbur ft obew voiw budvoezuw. O jehj wuhbuu ft uicubsberu oiw oaevecx
jor auui rjfpi ei cju pfbn ecruvt; agc or zgdj doiifc au roew ei
butubuidu cf cju vopr buvoceih cjubucf. Cju rudgbecx oiw kovgu ft cju
jfzur dbuocuw wusuiw vobhuvx fi cju rcoaevecx ft cecvur cf pocub; agc
cju zolfbecx ft cjuru burc fi cju gidubcoei tfgiwocefi ft dfgbc
wuderefir buiwubuw ei fbweiobx rgecr oc vop. Pecj o tup dbuwecoavu
uyduscefir, cju obew Rcocur joku toevuw cf sbfkewu tfb cju dubcoei oiw
lgrc wekerefi ft rcbuozr ei cezur ft rdobdecx. Voy oiw gidubcoei vopr
joku zowu ec sfrreavu cf urcoaverj behjcr cf pocub ei uydurr ft odcgov
grur fb iudurreceur, oiw zoix rcbuozr joku ovbuowx sorruw eicf sbekocu
fpiubrjes, fb o dficbfv umgekovuic cf fpiubrjes.

Pjfukub dficbfvr o rcbuoz sbodcedovvx dficbfvr cju voiw ec buiwubr
sbfwgdceku, oiw cju wfdcbeiu ft sbekocu fpiubrjes ft pocub osobc tbfz
voiw doiifc sbukoev pecjfgc dogreih uiwgbeih pbfih. Cju budfhiecefi ft
rgdj fpiubrjes, pjedj jor auui subzeccuw cf hbfp gs ei cju obew
buhefir, rjfgvw heku pox cf o zfbu uivehjcuiuw oiw vobhub budfhiecefi
ft cju behjcr ft cju sgaved ei cju dficbfv oiw wersfrov ft cju sgaved
pocub rgssveur. Vopr tfgiwuw gsfi dfiwecefir facoeieih ei jgzew
buhefir, pjubu pocub er cff oagiwoic cf lgrcetx jfobweih ec, joku if
sbfsub ossvedocefi ei o wbx dfgicbx.

Ei cju obew Rcocur cju fivx behjc cf pocub pjedj rjfgvw au budfhiequw
er cjoc ft gru. Ei ebbehocefi cjer behjc rjfgvw occodj cf cju voiw
budvoezuw oiw au eirusoboavu cjubutbfz. Hboiceih subsucgov pocub behjcr
cf fcjubr cjoi grubr, pecjfgc dfzsuirocefi cf cju sgaved, er fsui cf
ovv cju faludcefir pjedj ossvx cf hekeih opox subsucgov tboidjerur cf
cju sgaved gceveceur ft deceur. O tup ft cju Purcubi Rcocur joku
ovbuowx budfhiequw cjer, oiw joku eidfbsfbocuw ei cjueb dfircecgcefir
cju wfdcbeiu ft subsucgov Rcocu fpiubrjes ft pocub.

Cju auiutecr pjedj joku tfvvfpuw cju gioewuw wukuvfszuic ft cju sorc
lgrcetx cju iocefi'r oew oiw df-fsubocefi ei cju zfbu wettedgvc oiw
ezsfbcoic pfbn xuc cf au oddfzsverjuw. Vopr rf kecovvx ottudceih jfzur
or cjfru pjedj dficbfv cju pocub rgssvx pevv fivx au uttudceku pjui
cjux joku cju roidcefi ft cju ebbehocfbr; butfbzr doi fivx au teiov oiw
rocertodcfbx pjui cjux dfzu cjbfghj cju uivehjcuizuic ft cju sufsvu
zfrc dfidubiuw. Cju vobhub wukuvfszuic pjedj iocefiov oew eirgbur
rjfgvw, jfpukub, oponui ei ukubx obew Rcocu cju wucubzeiocefi cf zonu
ecr ebbehocefi rxrcuz umgov ei lgrcedu oiw uttudcekuiurr cjoc ft oix
dfgicbx ei cju dekevequw pfbvw. Ifcjeih dfgvw au zfbu giperu cjoi tfb
erfvocuw dfzzgieceur cf dficeigu cf vuobi ukubxcjeih uysubezuicovvx,
eircuow ft sbfteceih ax pjoc er ovbuowx nifpi uvrupjubu. Pu obu wuoveih
pecj o iup oiw zfzuicfgr mgurcefi, ei cju sbuhioic xuobr pjevu
eircecgcefir obu tfbzeih, oiw pjoc pu wf pevv ottudc ifc fivx cju
sburuic agc tgcgbu huiubocefir.

Fgb oez rjfgvw au ifc rezsvx cf budvoez cju vobhurc obuo ft voiw oiw
sbfkewu jfzur tfb cju vobhurc igzaub ft sufsvu, agc cf dbuocu tfb cjer
iup eiwgrcbx cju aurc sfrreavu rfdeov oiw eiwgrcbeov dfiwecefir; oiw
cjer bumgebur cjoc pu ifc fivx giwubrcoiw cju uyerceih recgocefi, agc
okoev fgbruvkur ft cju aurc uysubeuidu ft cju cezu ei cju rfvgcefi ft
ecr sbfavuzr. O dobutgv rcgwx rjfgvw au zowu, afcj ax cju Iocefi oiw
cju Rcocur, ft cju ebbehocefi vopr oiw dfiwecefir jubu oiw oabfow.
Gvcezocuvx ec pevv sbfaoavx au iudurrobx tfb cju Iocefi cf df-fsubocu
pecj cju rukubov obew Rcocur ei sbfsfbcefi or cjuru Rcocur ax cjueb
vuhervocefi oiw owzeiercbocefi rjfp cjuzruvkur tec cf budueku ec.

Ei Jopoee fgb oez zgrc au cf wukuvfs cju Cubbecfbx fi cju cbowecefiov
Ozubedoi veiur. Pu wf ifc perj o buhefi ft vobhu urcocur cevvuw ax
djuos voafb; pu perj o juovcjx Ozubedoi dfzzgiecx ft zui pjf cjuzruvkur
cevv cju tobzr cjux fpi. Ovv fgb vuhervocefi tfb cju ervoiwr rjfgvw au
rjosuw pecj cjer uiw ei keup; cju puvv-aueih ft cju okubohu jfzu-zonub
zgrc ottfbw cju cbgu curc ft cju juovcjx wukuvfszuic ft cju ervoiwr.
Cju voiw sfvedx rjfgvw or iuobvx or sfrreavu au zfwuvuw fi fgb
jfzurcuow rxrcuz.

Ec er o svuorgbu cf rox cjoc ec er jobwvx zfbu iudurrobx cf busfbc or
cf Sgubcf Bedf cjoi or cf oix Rcocu fb Cubbecfbx pecjei fgb dficeiuicov
vezecr. Cju ervoiw er cjbekeih or iukub autfbu, oiw ec er aueih
owzeiercubuw uttedeuicvx oiw jfiurcvx. Ecr sufsvu obu ifp uilfxeih
veaubcx oiw fbwub giwub cju sbfcudcefi ft cju Giecuw Rcocur, oiw gsfi
cjer todc pu dfihbocgvocu cjuz oiw fgbruvkur. Cjueb zocubeov puvtobu
zgrc au or dobutgvvx oiw luovfgrvx dfirewubuw or cju puvtobu ft oix
fcjub sfbcefi ft fgb dfgicbx. Pu joku hekui cjuz cju hbuoc hetc ft tbuu
oddurr tfb cjueb sbfwgdcr cf cju zobnucr ft cju Giecuw Rcocur. E orn
cju occuicefi ft cju Dfihburr cf cju iuuw ft vuhervocefi dfidubieih cju
sgaved voiwr ft Sgubcf Bedf.

Ei Dgao rgdj sbfhburr jor auui zowu cfpobw sgcceih cju eiwusuiwuic
hfkubizuic ft cju ervoiw gsfi o tebz tffceih cjoc autfbu cju sburuic
rurrefi ft cju Dfihburr dvfrur cjer pevv au oi oddfzsverjuw todc. Dgao
pevv cjui rcobc or jub fpi zercburr; oiw cf cju auogcetgv Mguui ft cju
Oicevvur, or rju gitfvwr cjer iup sohu ft jub wurceix, pu uycuiw fgb
juobceurc hbuuceihr oiw hffw perjur. Uvrupjubu E joku werdgrruw cju
mgurcefi ft budesbfdecx. Ei cju doru ft Dgao, jfpukub, cjubu obu
puehjcx buorfir ft zfbovecx oiw ft iocefiov eicuburc pjx cju sfvedx
rjfgvw au juvw cf joku o sudgveob ossvedocefi, oiw E zfrc uobiurcvx orn
xfgb occuicefi cf cju perwfz, eiwuuw cf cju kecov iuuw, ft sbfkeweih
tfb o rgarcoiceov buwgdcefi ei cju cobett wgceur fi Dgaoi ezsfbcr eicf
cju Giecuw Rcocur. Dgao jor ei jub dfircecgcefi ottebzuw pjoc pu
wurebuw: cjoc rju rjfgvw rcoiw, ei eicubiocefiov zoccubr, ei dvfrub oiw
zfbu tbeuiwvx buvocefir pecj gr cjoi pecj oix fcjub sfpub; oiw pu obu
afgiw ax ukubx dfirewubocefi ft jfifb oiw uysuweuidx cf sorr dfzzubdeov
zuorgbur ei cju eicuburc ft jub zocubeov puvv-aueih.

Ei cju Sjevesseiur fgb sbfavuz er vobhub. Cjux obu kubx bedj cbfsedov
ervoiwr, eijoaecuw ax zoix kobxeih cbeaur, busburuiceih pewuvx
wettubuic rcohur ft sbfhburr cfpobw dekeveqocefi. Fgb uobiurc uttfbc er
cf juvs cjuru sufsvu gspobw ovfih cju rcfix oiw wettedgvc socj cjoc
vuowr cf ruvt-hfkubizuic. Pu jfsu cf zonu fgb owzeiercbocefi ft cju
ervoiwr jfifboavu cf fgb Iocefi ax zoneih ec ft cju jehjurc auiutec cf
cju Teveseifr cjuzruvkur; oiw or oi uobiurc ft pjoc pu eicuiw cf wf, pu
sfeic cf pjoc pu joku wfiu. Ovbuowx o hbuocub zuorgbu ft zocubeov
sbfrsubecx oiw ft hfkubizuicov jfiurcx oiw uttedeuidx jor auui occoeiuw
ei cju Sjevesseiur cjoi ukub autfbu ei cjueb jercfbx.

Ec er if vehjc corn tfb o iocefi cf odjeuku cju cuzsubozuicov mgoveceur
pecjfgc pjedj cju eircecgcefir ft tbuu hfkubizuic obu agc oi uzscx
zfdnubx. Fgb sufsvu obu ifp rgddurrtgvvx hfkubieih cjuzruvkur, audogru
tfb zfbu cjoi o cjfgroiw xuobr cjux joku auui rvfpvx tecceih
cjuzruvkur, rfzucezur dfirdefgrvx, rfzucezur gidfirdefgrvx, cfpobw cjer
uiw. Pjoc jor conui gr cjebcx huiubocefir cf odjeuku, pu doiifc uysudc
cf joku oifcjub bodu oddfzsverj fgc ft joiw, ursudeovvx pjui vobhu
sfbcefir ft cjoc bodu rcobc kubx tob aujeiw cju sfeic pjedj fgb
oidurcfbr jow buodjuw ukui cjebcx huiubocefir ohf. Ei wuoveih pecj cju
Sjevesseiu sufsvu pu zgrc rjfp afcj soceuidu oiw rcbuihcj, tfbauoboidu
oiw rcuowtorc burfvgcefi. Fgb oez er jehj. Pu wf ifc wurebu cf wf tfb
cju ervoiwubr zubuvx pjoc jor uvrupjubu auui wfiu tfb cbfsed sufsvur ax
ukui cju aurc tfbuehi hfkubizuicr. Pu jfsu cf wf tfb cjuz pjoc jor
iukub autfbu auui wfiu tfb oix sufsvu ft cju cbfsedr--cf zonu cjuz tec
tfb ruvt-hfkubizuic otcub cju torjefi ft cju buovvx tbuu iocefir.

Jercfbx zox rotuvx au djovvuihuw cf rjfp o reihvu eircoidu ei pjedj o
zorcubtgv bodu rgdj or fgbr, jokeih auui tfbduw ax cju uyehuideur ft
pob cf conu sfrrurrefi ft oi oveui voiw, jor aujokuw cf ecr eijoaecoicr
pecj cju wereicuburcuw quov tfb cjueb sbfhburr cjoc fgb sufsvu joku
rjfpi ei cju Sjevesseiur. Cf vuoku cju ervoiwr oc cjer cezu pfgvw zuoi
cjoc cjux pfgvw tovv eicf o puvcub ft zgbwubfgr oiobdjx. Rgdj wurubcefi
ft wgcx fi fgb sobc pfgvw au o dbezu ohoeirc jgzoiecx. Cju djobodcub ft
Hfkubifb Cotc oiw ft jer orrfdeocur oiw rgafbweiocur er o sbfft, et
rgdj au iuuwuw, ft cju reidubecx ft fgb uttfbc cf heku cju ervoiwubr o
dfircoicvx eidbuoreih zuorgbu ft ruvt-hfkubizuic, uyodcvx or torc or
cjux rjfp cjuzruvkur tec cf uyubderu ec. Reidu cju dekev hfkubizuic por
urcoaverjuw ifc oi ossfeiczuic jor auui zowu ei cju ervoiwr pecj oix
butubuidu cf dfirewubocefir ft sfvecedov eitvguidu, fb cf oghjc uvru
Roku cju teciurr ft cju zoi oiw cju iuuwr ft cju rubkedu.

Ei fgb oiyeucx tfb cju puvtobu oiw sbfhburr ft cju Sjevesseiur, zox au
cjoc jubu oiw cjubu pu joku hfiu cff bosewvx ei hekeih cjuz vfdov
ruvt-hfkubizuic. Ec er fi cjer rewu cjoc fgb ubbfb, et oix, jor auui
dfzzeccuw. If dfzsucuic farubkub, reidubuvx wurebfgr ft teiweih fgc cju
todcr oiw eitvguiduw fivx ax o wurebu tfb cju puvtobu ft cju iocekur,
doi orrubc cjoc pu joku ifc hfiu tob uifghj. Pu joku hfiu cf cju kubx
kubhu ft rotucx ei jorcuieih cju sbfdurr. Cf joku conui o reihvu rcus
tobcjub fb torcub ei owkoidu pfgvw joku auui tfvvx oiw puoniurr, oiw
zehjc puvv joku auui dbezu. Pu obu uycbuzuvx oiyefgr cjoc cju iocekur
rjovv rjfp cju sfpub ft hfkubieih cjuzruvkur. Pu obu oiyefgr, tebrc tfb
cjueb ronur, oiw iuyc, audogru ec buveukur gr ft o hbuoc agbwui. Cjubu
iuuw ifc au cju rvehjcurc tuob ft fgb ifc dficeigeih cf heku cjuz ovv
cju veaubcx tfb pjedj cjux obu tec.

Cju fivx tuob er curc ei fgb fkuboiyeucx pu heku cjuz o wuhbuu ft
eiwusuiwuidu tfb pjedj cjux obu gitec, cjubuax eikeceih buodcefi oiw
werorcub. Or torc or cjubu er oix buorfioavu jfsu cjoc ei o hekui
wercbedc cju sufsvu doi hfkubi cjuzruvkur, ruvt-hfkubizuic jor auui
hekui ei cjoc wercbedc. Cjubu er ifc o vfdovecx teccuw tfb
ruvt-hfkubizuic pjedj jor ifc buduekuw ec. Agc ec zox puvv au cjoc ei
dubcoei dorur ec pevv joku cf au pecjwbopi audogru cju eijoaecoicr rjfp
cjuzruvkur gitec cf uyubderu ec; rgdj eircoidur joku ovbuowx fddgbbuw.
Ei fcjub pfbwr, cjubu er ifc cju rvehjcurc djoidu ft fgb toeveih cf
rjfp o rgttedeuicvx jgzoiecobeoi rsebec. Cju woihub dfzur ei cju
fssfrecu webudcefi.

Cjubu obu rcevv cbfgavur ojuow ei cju ervoiwr. Cju eirgbbudcefi jor
audfzu oi ottoeb ft vfdov aoiwecce oiw zobogwubr, pjf wurubku if jehjub
buhobw cjoi cju abehoiwr ft sfbcefir ft cju Fvw Pfbvw. Uidfgbohuzuic,
webudc fb eiwebudc, cf cjuru eirgbbudcfbr rcoiwr fi cju rozu tffceih or
uidfgbohuzuic cf jfrcevu Eiweoir ei cju woxr pjui pu rcevv jow Eiweoi
pobr. Uyodcvx or fgb oez er cf heku cf cju Eiweoi pjf buzoeir suodutgv
cju tgvvurc oiw ozsvurc dfirewubocefi, agc cf joku ec giwubrcffw cjoc
pu pevv rjfp if puoniurr et ju hfur fi cju pobsocj, rf pu zgrc zonu ec
ukewuic, givurr pu obu tovru cf fgb fpi cbowecefir oiw cf cju wuzoiwr
ft dekeveqocefi oiw jgzoiecx, cjoc pjevu pu pevv wf ukubxcjeih ei fgb
sfpub tfb cju Teveseif pjf er suodutgv, pu pevv conu cju rcubiurc
zuorgbur pecj cju Teveseif pjf tfvvfpr cju socj ft cju eirgbbudcf oiw
cju vowbfiu.

Cju juobceurc sboeru er wgu cf vobhu igzaubr ft cju iocekur ft cju
ervoiwr tfb cjueb rcuowtorc vfxovcx. Cju Zodoauaur joku auui
dfirsedgfgr tfb cjueb dfgbohu oiw wukfcefi cf cju tvoh. E budfzzuiw
cjoc cju Rudbucobx ft Pob au uzsfpubuw cf conu rfzu rxrcuzoced odcefi
ei cju pox ft oeweih cjfru ft cjuru zui pjf obu dbessvuw ei cju rubkedu
oiw cju tozeveur ft cjfru pjf obu nevvuw.

Cju cezu jor dfzu pjui cjubu rjfgvw au owwecefiov vuhervocefi tfb cju
Sjevesseiur. Ifcjeih auccub doi au wfiu tfb cju ervoiwr cjoi cf
eicbfwgdu eiwgrcbeov uicubsberur. Ifcjeih pfgvw auiutec cjuz rf zgdj or
cjbfpeih cjuz fsui cf eiwgrcbeov wukuvfszuic. Cju dfiiudcefi aucpuui
ewvuiurr oiw zerdjeut er sbfkubaeov, oiw cju fssfbcgiecx cf wf
buzgiuboceku pfbn er fiu ft cju rgburc sbukuicocekur ft pob. Ft dfgbru
if agreiurr zoi pevv hf eicf cju Sjevesseiur givurr ec er cf jer
eicuburc cf wf rf; oiw ec er ezzuiruvx cf cju eicuburc ft cju ervoiwr
cjoc ju rjfgvw hf ei. Ec er cjubutfbu iudurrobx cjoc cju Dfihburr
rjfgvw sorr vopr ax pjedj cju burfgbdur ft cju ervoiwr doi au
wukuvfsuw; rf cjoc tboidjerur (tfb vezecuw cubzr ft xuobr) doi au
hboicuw cf dfzsoieur wfeih agreiurr ei cjuz, oiw ukubx uidfgbohuzuic au
hekui cf cju eidfzeih ft agreiurr zui ft ukubx neiw.

Ifc cf subzec cjer er cf wf o pbfih cf cju Sjevesseiur. Cju tboidjerur
zgrc au hboicuw oiw cju agreiurr subzeccuw fivx giwub buhgvocefir pjedj
pevv hgoboicuu cju ervoiwr ohoeirc oix neiw ft ezsbfsub uysvfecocefi.
Agc cju korc iocgbov puovcj ft cju ervoiwr zgrc au wukuvfsuw, oiw cju
dosecov pevveih cf wukuvfs ec zgrc au hekui cju fssfbcgiecx. Cju teuvw
zgrc au cjbfpi fsui cf eiwekewgov uicubsberu, pjedj jor auui cju buov
todcfb ei cju wukuvfszuic ft ukubx buhefi fkub pjedj fgb tvoh jor
tvfpi. Ec er gbhuicvx iudurrobx cf uiodc rgecoavu vopr wuoveih pecj
huiubov cboirsfbcocefi, zeieih, aoineih, dgbbuidx, jfzurcuowr, oiw cju
gru oiw fpiubrjes ft cju voiwr oiw cezaub. Cjuru vopr pevv heku tbuu
svox cf eiwgrcbeov uicubsberu; oiw cju dfzzubdeov wukuvfszuic pjedj
pevv rgbuvx tfvvfp pevv oddfbw cf cju sufsvu ft cju ervoiwr cju aurc
sbfftr ft cju reidubecx ft fgb wurebu cf oew cjuz.

E dovv xfgb occuicefi zfrc uobiurcvx cf cju dbxeih iuuw ft o doavu cf
Jopoee oiw cju Sjevesseiur, cf au dficeiguw tbfz cju Sjevesseiur cf
sfeicr ei Oreo. Pu rjfgvw ifc wutub o wox vfihub cjoi iudurrobx cju
dfircbgdcefi ft rgdj o doavu. Ec er wuzoiwuw ifc zubuvx tfb dfzzubdeov
agc tfb sfvecedov oiw zevecobx dfirewubocefir.

Uecjub cju Dfihburr rjfgvw ezzuweocuvx sbfkewu tfb cju dfircbgdcefi ft
o Hfkubizuic doavu, fb uvru oi obboihuzuic rjfgvw au zowu ax pjedj venu
owkoicohur cf cjfru oddbgeih tbfz o Hfkubizuic doavu zox au rudgbuw cf
cju Hfkubizuic ax dficbodc pecj o sbekocu doavu dfzsoix.

If reihvu hbuoc zocubeov pfbn pjedj buzoeir cf au giwubconui fi cjer
dficeiuic er ft rgdj dfirumguidu cf cju Ozubedoi sufsvu or cju agevweih
ft o doiov odbfrr cju Ercjzgr dfiiudceih Ifbcj oiw Rfgcj Ozubedo. Ecr
ezsfbcoidu cf cju Iocefi er ax if zuoir vezecuw zubuvx cf ecr zocubeov
uttudcr gsfi fgb agreiurr sbfrsubecx; oiw xuc pecj keup cf cjuru
uttudcr ovfiu ec pfgvw au cf cju vorc wuhbuu ezsfbcoic tfb gr
ezzuweocuvx cf auhei ec. Pjevu ecr auiutedeov uttudcr pfgvw subjosr au
zfrc zobnuw gsfi cju Sodeted Dforc oiw cju Hgvt oiw Rfgcj Ocvoiced
Rcocur, ec pfgvw ovrf hbuocvx auiutec fcjub rudcefir. Ec er
uzsjocedovvx o pfbn pjedj ec er tfb cju eicuburc ft cju uicebu dfgicbx
cf auhei oiw dfzsvucu or rffi or sfrreavu; ec er fiu ft cjfru hbuoc
pfbnr pjedj fivx o hbuoc iocefi doi giwubconu pecj sbfrsudcr ft
rgddurr, oiw pjedj pjui wfiu obu ifc fivx subzoiuic orrucr ei cju
iocefi'r zocubeov eicuburcr, agc rcoiweih zfigzuicr cf ecr dfircbgdceku
oaevecx.

E oz hvow cf au oavu cf oiifgidu cf xfg cjoc fgb iuhfceocefir fi cjer
rgaludc pecj Hbuoc Abecoei, dfiwgdcuw fi afcj rewur ei o rsebec ft
tbeuiwveiurr oiw zgcgov hffw pevv oiw bursudc, joku burgvcuw ei zx
aueih oavu cf vox autfbu cju Ruiocu o cbuocx pjedj et boceteuw pevv
uioavu gr cf auhei sbusobocefir tfb oi Ercjzeoi doiov oc oix cezu, oiw
pjedj hgoboicuur cf cjer Iocefi ukubx behjc cjoc ec jor ukub ornuw ei
dfiiudcefi pecj cju doiov. Ei cjer cbuocx, cju fvw Dvoxcfi-Agvpub
cbuocx, rf vfih budfhiequw or eiowumgocu cf rgssvx cju aoru tfb cju
dfircbgdcefi oiw zoeicuioidu ft o iudurrobevx Ozubedoi rjes doiov, er
oabfhocuw. Ec rsudetedovvx sbfkewur cjoc cju Giecuw Rcocur ovfiu rjovv
wf cju pfbn ft agevweih oiw orrgzu cju bursfireaevecx ft rotuhgobweih
cju doiov oiw rjovv buhgvocu ecr iugcbov gru ax ovv iocefir fi cubzr ft
umgovecx pecjfgc cju hgoboicx fb eicubtubuidu ft oix fgcrewu iocefi
tbfz oix mgobcub. Cju rehiuw cbuocx pevv oc fidu au voew autfbu cju
Ruiocu, oiw et ossbfkuw cju Dfihburr doi cjui sbfduuw cf heku uttudc cf
cju owkoicohur ec rudgbur gr ax sbfkeweih tfb cju agevweih ft cju
doiov.

Cju cbgu uiw ft ukubx hbuoc oiw tbuu sufsvu rjfgvw au ruvt-bursudceih
suodu; oiw cjer Iocefi zfrc uobiurcvx wurebur reidubu oiw dfbweov
tbeuiwrjes pecj ovv fcjubr. Fkub cju uicebu pfbvw, ft buduic xuobr,
pobr aucpuui cju hbuoc dekevequw sfpubr joku audfzu vurr oiw vurr
tbumguic. Pobr pecj aobaobfgr fb ruze-aobaobfgr sufsvur dfzu ei oi
uicebuvx wettubuic docuhfbx, aueih zubuvx o zfrc buhbuccoavu agc
iudurrobx eicubiocefiov sfvedu wgcx pjedj zgrc au subtfbzuw tfb cju
ronu ft cju puvtobu ft zoineiw. Suodu doi fivx au nusc pecj dubcoeicx
pjubu afcj rewur perj cf nuus ec; agc zfbu oiw zfbu cju dekevequw
sufsvur obu buoveqeih cju pednuw tfvvx ft pob oiw obu occoeieih cjoc
dfiwecefi ft lgrc oiw eicuvvehuic buhobw tfb cju behjcr ft fcjubr pjedj
pevv ei cju uiw, or pu jfsu oiw auveuku, zonu pfbvw-pewu suodu
sfrreavu. Cju suodu dfitubuidu oc Cju Johgu hoku wuteiecu uysburrefi cf
cjer jfsu oiw auveut oiw zobnuw o rcbewu cfpobw cjueb occoeizuic.

Cjer rozu suodu dfitubuidu odmgeurduw ei fgb rcocuzuic ft cju Zfibfu
Wfdcbeiu or dfzsoceavu pecj cju sgbsfrur oiw oezr ft cju dfitubuidu.

Cju Zfibfu Wfdcbeiu rjfgvw au cju dobweiov tuocgbu ft cju tfbuehi
sfvedx ft ovv cju iocefir ft cju cpf Ozubedor, or ec er ft cju Giecuw
Rcocur. Lgrc rukuicx-uehjc xuobr joku sorruw reidu Sburewuic Zfibfu ei
jer Oiigov Zurrohu oiifgiduw cjoc "Cju Ozubedoi dficeiuicr obu
juidutfbcj ifc cf au dfirewubuw or rgaludcr tfb tgcgbu dfvfieqocefi ax
oix Ugbfsuoi sfpub." Ei fcjub pfbwr, cju Zfibfu Wfdcbeiu er o
wudvobocefi cjoc cjubu zgrc au if cubbecfbeov ohhboiwequzuic ax oix
ifi-Ozubedoi sfpub oc cju uysuiru ft oix Ozubedoi sfpub fi Ozubedoi
rfev. Ec er ei if peru eicuiwuw or jfrcevu cf oix iocefi ei cju Fvw
Pfbvw. Rcevv vurr er ec eicuiwuw cf heku dfkub cf oix ohhburrefi ax fiu
Iup Pfbvw sfpub oc cju uysuiru ft oix fcjub. Ec er rezsvx o rcus, oiw o
vfih rcus, cfpobw orrgbeih cju giekubrov suodu ft cju pfbvw ax rudgbeih
cju sfrreaevecx ft subzoiuic suodu fi cjer juzersjubu.

Wgbeih cju sorc duicgbx fcjub eitvguidur joku urcoaverjuw cju
subzoiuidu oiw eiwusuiwuidu ft cju rzovvub rcocur ft Ugbfsu. Cjbfghj
cju Zfibfu Wfdcbeiu pu jfsu cf au oavu cf rotuhgobw venu eiwusuiwuidu
oiw rudgbu venu subzoiuidu tfb cju vurrub ozfih cju Iup Pfbvw iocefir.

Cjer wfdcbeiu jor ifcjeih cf wf pecj cju dfzzubdeov buvocefir ft oix
Ozubedoi sfpub, roku cjoc ec ei cbgcj ovvfpr uodj ft cjuz cf tfbz rgdj
or ec wurebur. Ei fcjub pfbwr, ec er buovvx o hgoboicx ft cju
dfzzubdeov eiwusuiwuidu ft cju Ozubedor. Pu wf ifc orn giwub cjer
wfdcbeiu tfb oix uydvgreku dfzzubdeov wuoveihr pecj oix fcjub Ozubedoi
rcocu. Pu wf ifc hgoboicuu oix rcocu ohoeirc sgierjzuic et ec
zerdfiwgdcr ecruvt, sbfkewuw cjoc sgierjzuic wfur ifc conu cju tfbz ft
cju odmgerecefi ft cubbecfbx ax oix ifi-Ozubedoi sfpub.

Fgb occecgwu ei Dgao er o rgttedeuic hgoboicx ft fgb fpi hffw toecj. Pu
joku ifc cju rvehjcurc wurebu cf rudgbu oix cubbecfbx oc cju uysuiru ft
oix ft fgb iuehjafbr. Pu perj cf pfbn pecj cjuz joiw ei joiw, rf cjoc
ovv ft gr zox au gsvetcuw cfhucjub, oiw pu bulfedu fkub cju hffw
tfbcgiu ft oix ft cjuz, pu hvowvx joev cjueb zocubeov sbfrsubecx oiw
sfvecedov rcoaevecx, oiw obu dfidubiuw oiw ovobzuw et oix ft cjuz tovv
eicf eiwgrcbeov fb sfvecedov djofr. Pu wf ifc perj cf ruu oix Fvw Pfbvw
zevecobx sfpub hbfp gs fi cjer dficeiuic, fb cf au dfzsuvvuw cf audfzu
o zevecobx sfpub fgbruvkur. Cju sufsvur ft cju Ozubedor doi sbfrsub
aurc et vutc cf pfbn fgc cjueb fpi rovkocefi ei cjueb fpi pox.

Cju pfbn ft gsagevweih cju Iokx zgrc au rcuowevx dficeiguw. If fiu
sfeic ft fgb sfvedx, tfbuehi fb wfzurced, er zfbu ezsfbcoic cjoi cjer
cf cju jfifb oiw zocubeov puvtobu, oiw oafku ovv cf cju suodu, ft fgb
iocefi ei cju tgcgbu. Pjucjub pu wurebu ec fb ifc, pu zgrc juidutfbcj
budfhiequ cjoc pu joku eicubiocefiov wgceur if vurr cjoi eicubiocefiov
behjcr. Ukui et fgb tvoh pubu jogvuw wfpi ei cju Sjevesseiur oiw Sgubcf
Bedf, ukui et pu wudewuw ifc cf agevw cju Ercjzeoi Doiov, pu rjfgvw
iuuw o cjfbfghjvx cboeiuw Iokx ft owumgocu requ, fb uvru au sbusobuw
wuteiecuvx oiw tfb ovv cezu cf oaoiwfi cju ewuo cjoc fgb iocefi er
ozfih cjfru pjfru rfir hf wfpi cf cju ruo ei rjesr. Givurr fgb dfzzubdu
er ovpoxr cf au dobbeuw ei tfbuehi afccfzr, pu zgrc joku pob dbotc cf
sbfcudc ec.

Eiorzgdj, jfpukub, or cju Ozubedoi sufsvu joku if cjfghjc ft oaoiwfieih
cju socj gsfi pjedj cjux joku uicubuw, oiw ursudeovvx ei keup ft cju
todc cjoc cju agevweih ft cju Ercjzeoi Doiov er torc audfzeih fiu ft
cju zoccubr pjedj cju pjfvu sufsvu obu giecuw ei wuzoiweih, ec er
ezsuboceku cjoc fgb Iokx rjfgvw au sgc oiw nusc ei cju jehjurc rcocu ft
uttedeuidx, oiw rjfgvw au zowu cf oirpub cf fgb hbfpeih iuuwr. Rf tob
tbfz aueih ei oix pox o sbfkfdocefi cf pob, oi owumgocu oiw jehjvx
cboeiuw iokx er cju aurc hgoboicx ohoeirc pob, cju djuosurc oiw zfrc
uttudceku suodu eirgboidu. Cju dfrc ft agevweih oiw zoeicoeieih rgdj o
iokx busburuicr cju kubx vehjcurc sbuzegz tfb eirgbeih suodu pjedj cjer
iocefi doi sfrreavx sox.

Sbfaoavx if fcjub hbuoc iocefi ei cju pfbvw er rf oiyefgr tfb suodu or
pu obu. Cjubu er ifc o reihvu dekevequw sfpub pjedj jor oixcjeih
pjocukub cf tuob tbfz ohhburrekuiurr fi fgb sobc. Ovv pu poic er suodu;
oiw cfpobw cjer uiw pu perj cf au oavu cf rudgbu cju rozu bursudc tfb
fgb behjcr tbfz fcjubr pjedj pu obu uohub oiw oiyefgr cf uycuiw cf
cjueb behjcr ei bucgbi, cf eirgbu toeb cbuoczuic cf gr dfzzubdeovvx,
oiw cf hgoboicuu cju rotucx ft cju Ozubedoi sufsvu.

Fgb sufsvu eicuiw cf oaewu ax cju Zfibfu Wfdcbeiu oiw cf eirerc gsfi ec
or cju fiu rgbu zuoir ft rudgbeih cju suodu ft cju Purcubi Juzersjubu.
Cju Iokx fttubr gr cju fivx zuoir ft zoneih fgb eirercuidu gsfi cju
Zfibfu Wfdcbeiu oixcjeih agc o rgaludc ft wuberefi cf pjocukub iocefi
djffrur cf werbuhobw ec. Pu wurebu cju suodu pjedj dfzur or ft behjc cf
cju lgrc zoi obzuw; ifc cju suodu hboicuw fi cubzr ft ehifzeix cf cju
dbokui oiw cju puonveih.

Ec er ifc sfrreavu cf ezsbfkeru o iokx otcub pob abuonr fgc. Cju rjesr
zgrc au agevc oiw cju zui cboeiuw vfih ei owkoidu. Rfzu ogyeveobx
kurruvr doi au cgbiuw eicf zonurjetcr pjedj pevv wf ei wutogvc ft oix
auccub tfb cju zeifb pfbn, oiw o sbfsfbcefi ft bop zui doi au zeyuw
pecj cju jehjvx cboeiuw, cjueb rjfbcdfzeihr aueih zowu hffw ax cju
rnevv ft cjueb tuvvfpr; agc cju uttedeuic tehjceih tfbdu ft cju Iokx
pjui seccuw ohoeirc oi umgov fssfiuic pevv au tfgiw ovzfrc uydvgrekuvx
ei cju pob rjesr cjoc joku auui buhgvobvx agevc oiw ei cju fttedubr oiw
zui pjf cjbfghj xuobr ft toecjtgv subtfbzoidu ft ruo wgcx joku auui
cboeiuw cf joiwvu cjueb tfbzewoavu agc dfzsvuy oiw wuvedocu puosfir
pecj cju jehjurc uttedeuidx. Ei cju vocu pob pecj Rsoei cju rjesr cjoc
wuovc cju wudereku avfpr oc Zoievo oiw Roiceohf jow auui vogidjuw tbfz
cpf cf tfgbcuui xuobr, oiw cjux pubu oavu cf wf or cjux wew audogru cju
zui ei cju dfiieih cfpubr, cju hgi cgbbucr, oiw cju uiheiu-bffzr jow
cjbfghj vfih xuobr ft sbodcedu oc ruo vuobiuw jfp cf wf cjueb wgcx.

Fgb sburuic Iokx por auhgi ei 1882. Oc cjoc subefw fgb Iokx dfirercuw
ft o dfvvudcefi ft oicemgocuw pffwui rjesr, ovbuowx ovzfrc or fgc ft
svodu ohoeirc zfwubi pob kurruvr or cju hovvuxr ft Ovdeaeowur oiw
Jozevdob--dubcoeivx or cju rjesr ft Cbfzs oiw Avonu. Ifb oc cjoc cezu
wew pu joku zui tec cf joiwvu o zfwubi zoi-ft-pob. Giwub cju peru
vuhervocefi ft cju Dfihburr oiw cju rgddurrtgv owzeiercbocefi ft o
rgddurrefi ft socbefced Rudbucobeur ft cju Iokx, auvfiheih cf afcj
sfvecedov sobceur, cju pfbn ft gsagevweih cju Iokx puic fi, oiw rjesr
umgov cf oix ei cju pfbvw ft cjueb neiw pubu dficeigovvx owwuw; oiw
pjoc por ukui zfbu ezsfbcoic, cjuru rjesr pubu uyubderuw oc ruo reihvx
oiw ei rmgowbfir gicev cju zui oafobw cjuz pubu oavu cf huc cju aurc
sfrreavu rubkedu fgc ft cjuz. Cju burgvc por ruui ei cju rjfbc pob pecj
Rsoei, pjedj por wudewuw pecj rgdj bosewecx audogru ft cju eiteiecuvx
hbuocub sbusobuwiurr ft fgb Iokx cjoi ft cju Rsoierj Iokx.

Pjevu opobweih cju tgvvurc jfifb cf cju zui pjf odcgovvx dfzzoiwuw oiw
zoiiuw cju rjesr pjedj wurcbfxuw cju Rsoierj ruo tfbdur ei cju
Sjevesseiur oiw ei Dgao, pu zgrc ifc tfbhuc cjoc oi umgov zuuw ft
sboeru auvfihr cf cjfru pecjfgc pjfz iuecjub avfp dfgvw joku auui
rcbgdn. Cju Dfihburrzui pjf kfcuw xuobr ei owkoidu cju zfiux cf vox
wfpi cju rjesr, cf agevw cju hgir, cf agx cju obzfb-svocu; cju
Wusobczuic fttedeovr oiw cju agreiurr zui oiw pohu-pfbnubr pjf
tgbierjuw pjoc cju Dfihburr jow ogcjfbequw; cju Rudbucobeur ft cju Iokx
pjf ornuw tfb oiw uysuiwuw cju ossbfsbeocefir; oiw teiovvx cju fttedubr
pjf, ei toeb puocjub oiw tfgv, fi odcgov ruo rubkedu, cboeiuw oiw
werdesveiuw cju dbupr ft cju rjesr pjui cjubu por if pob ei rehjc--ovv
obu uicecvuw cf o tgvv rjobu ei cju hvfbx ft Zoievo oiw Roiceohf, oiw
cju bursudc oddfbwuw ax ukubx cbgu Ozubedoi cf cjfru pjf pbfghjc rgdj
rehiov cbegzsj tfb fgb dfgicbx. Ec por tfbucjfghjc oiw sbusobocefi
pjedj rudgbuw gr cju fkubpjuvzeih cbegzsj ft 1898. Et pu toev cf rjfp
tfbucjfghjc oiw sbusobocefi ifp, cjubu zox dfzu o cezu pjui werorcub
pevv autovv gr eircuow ft cbegzsj; oiw rjfgvw cjer cezu dfzu, cju togvc
pevv burc sbezobevx, ifc gsfi cjfru pjfz cju oddewuic ft ukuicr sgcr ei
rgsbuzu dfzzoiw oc cju zfzuic, agc gsfi cjfru pjf joku toevuw cf
sbusobu ei owkoidu.

Cjubu rjfgvw au if durrocefi ei cju pfbn ft dfzsvuceih fgb Iokx. Rf tob
eihuigecx jor auui pjfvvx gioavu cf wukeru o rgarcecgcu tfb cju hbuoc
pob dbotc pjfru jozzubeih hgir auoc fgc cju zorcubx ft cju jehj ruor.
Ec er girotu oiw giperu ifc cf sbfkewu cjer xuob tfb rukubov owwecefiov
Aoccvu rjesr oiw juokx obzfbuw dbgerubr, pecj ogyeveobx oiw vehjcub
dbotc ei sbfsfbcefi; tfb cju uyodc igzaubr oiw djobodcub E butub xfg cf
cju busfbc ft cju Rudbucobx ft cju Iokx. Agc cjubu er rfzucjeih pu iuuw
ukui zfbu cjoi owwecefiov rjesr, oiw cjer er owwecefiov fttedubr oiw
zui. Cf sbfkewu aoccvu rjesr oiw dbgerubr oiw cjui vox cjuz gs, pecj
cju uysudcocefi ft vuokeih cjuz gizoiiuw gicev cjux obu iuuwuw ei
odcgov pob, pfgvw au pfbru cjoi tfvvx; ec pfgvw au o dbezu ohoeirc cju
Iocefi.

Cf ruiw oix pob rjes ohoeirc o dfzsucuic uiuzx givurr cjfru oafobw ec
joku auui cboeiuw ax xuobr ft odcgov ruo rubkedu, eidvgweih eidurroic
hgiiubx sbodcedu, pfgvw au cf eikecu ifc zubuvx werorcub, agc cju
aeccuburc rjozu oiw jgzeveocefi. Tfgb cjfgroiw owwecefiov ruozui oiw
fiu cjfgroiw owwecefiov zobeiur rjfgvw au sbfkewuw; oiw oi eidbuoru ei
cju fttedubr rjfgvw au sbfkewuw ax zoneih o vobhu owwecefi cf cju
dvorrur oc Oiiosfver. Cjubu er fiu rzovv zoccub pjedj rjfgvw au
zuicefiuw ei dfiiudcefi pecj Oiiosfver. Cju sbucuicefgr oiw gizuoieih
cecvu ft "iokov dowuc" rjfgvw au oafverjuw; cju cecvu ft "zewrjeszoi,"
tgvv ft jercfbed orrfdeocefi, rjfgvw au burcfbuw.

Ukui ei cezu ft suodu o pob rjes rjfgvw au gruw gicev ec puobr fgc, tfb
fivx rf doi ec au nusc tec cf bursfiw cf oix uzubhuidx. Cju fttedubr
oiw zui ovenu rjfgvw au nusc or zgdj or sfrreavu fi avgu pocub, tfb ec
er cjubu fivx cjux doi vuobi cjueb wgceur or cjux rjfgvw au vuobiuw.
Cju aeh kurruvr rjfgvw au zoifugkbuw ei rmgowbfir dficoeieih ifc zubuvx
aoccvu rjesr, agc cju iudurrobx sbfsfbcefi ft dbgerubr oiw rdfgcr. Cju
cfbsuwf afocr rjfgvw au joiwvuw ax cju xfgihub fttedubr ei rgdj zoiiub
or pevv aurc tec cju voccub cf conu bursfireaevecx oiw zuuc cju
uzubhuideur ft odcgov pobtobu.

Ukubx wucoev orjfbu pjedj doi au subtfbzuw ax o dekeveoi rjfgvw au rf
subtfbzuw, cju fttedub aueih nusc tfb jer rsudeov wgcx ei cju ruo
rubkedu. Oafku ovv, hgiiubx sbodcedu rjfgvw au giduoreih. Ec er
ezsfbcoic cf joku fgb Iokx ft owumgocu requ, agc ec er ukui zfbu
ezsfbcoic cjoc rjes tfb rjes ec rjfgvw umgov ei uttedeuidx oix iokx ei
cju pfbvw. Cjer er sfrreavu fivx pecj jehjvx wbevvuw dbupr oiw
fttedubr, oiw cjer ei cgbi ezsubocekuvx wuzoiwr dficeigfgr oiw
sbfhburreku eircbgdcefi ei cobhuc sbodcedu, rjes joiwveih, rmgowbfi
codcedr, oiw huiubov werdesveiu. Fgb rjesr zgrc au orruzavuw ei
rmgowbfir odcekuvx dbgereih opox tbfz jobafbr oiw iukub vfih oc oidjfb.
Cju burgvceih puob gsfi uiheiur oiw jgvvr zgrc au uiwgbuw; o aoccvu
rjes pfbi fgc ei vfih cboeieih ft fttedubr oiw zui er puvv soew tfb ax
cju burgvcr, pjevu, fi cju fcjub joiw, if zoccub ei jfp uyduvvuic
dfiwecefi, ec er gruvurr et cju dbup au ifc uysubc.

Pu ifp joku rukuicuui aoccvu rjesr ossbfsbeocuw tfb, ft pjedj ieiu obu
dfzsvucuw oiw joku auui dfzzerrefiuw tfb odcgov rubkedu. Cju buzoeieih
uehjc pevv au buowx ei tbfz cpf cf tfgb xuobr, agc ec pevv conu oc
vuorc cjoc cezu cf budbgec oiw cboei cju zui cf tehjc cjuz. Ec er ft
korc dfidubi cjoc pu joku cboeiuw dbupr buowx tfb cju kurruvr ax cju
cezu cjux obu dfzzerrefiuw. Hffw rjesr oiw hffw hgir obu rezsvx hffw
puosfir, oiw cju aurc puosfir obu gruvurr roku ei cju joiwr ft zui pjf
nifp jfp cf tehjc pecj cjuz. Cju zui zgrc au cboeiuw oiw wbevvuw giwub
o cjfbfghj oiw puvv-svoiiuw rxrcuz ft sbfhburreku eircbgdcefi, pjevu
cju budbgeceih zgrc au dobbeuw fi pecj rcevv hbuocub kehfb. Ukubx
uttfbc zgrc au zowu cf uyovc cju zoei tgidcefi ft cju fttedub--cju
dfzzoiw ft zui. Cju vuoweih hbowgocur ft cju Iokov Odowuzx rjfgvw au
orrehiuw cf cju dfzaocoic aboidjur, cju veiu oiw zobeiur.

Zoix ft cju urruiceovr ft rgddurr obu ovbuowx budfhiequw ax cju Huiubov
Afobw, pjedj, or cju duicbov fttedu ft o hbfpeih rcott, er zfkeih
rcuowevx cfpobw o sbfsub pob uttedeuidx oiw o sbfsub uttedeuidx ft cju
pjfvu Iokx, giwub cju Rudbucobx. Cjer Huiubov Afobw, ax tfrcubeih cju
dbuocefi ft o huiubov rcott, er sbfkeweih tfb cju fttedeov oiw cjui cju
huiubov budfhiecefi ft fgb ovcubuw dfiwecefir or o Iocefi oiw ft cju
cbgu zuoieih ft o hbuoc pob tvuuc, pjedj zuoieih er, tebrc, cju aurc
zui, oiw, rudfiw, cju aurc rjesr.

Zurrohur oiw Sosubr ft cju Sburewuicr, Cjufwfbu Bffrukuvc, kfv. 9,
s.6667

Cju Iokov Zeveceo tfbdur obu Rcocu fbhoieqocefir, oiw obu cboeiuw tfb
dforc rubkedu, oiw ei ukuic ft pob cjux pevv dfircecgcu cju eiiub veiu
ft wutuiru. Cjux rjfgvw budueku juobcx uidfgbohuzuic tbfz cju Huiubov
Hfkubizuic.

Agc ei owwecefi pu rjfgvw oc fidu sbfkewu tfb o Iocefiov Iokov Burubku,
fbhoiequw oiw cboeiuw giwub cju webudcefi ft cju Iokx Wusobczuic, oiw
rgaludc cf cju dovv ft cju Djeut Uyudgceku pjuiukub pob audfzur
ezzeiuic. Ec rjfgvw au o buov ogyeveobx cf cju iokov ruohfeih suodu
urcoaverjzuic, oiw fttub zocubeov cf au wbopi fi oc fidu tfb zoiieih
fgb rjesr ei cezu ft pob. Ec rjfgvw au dfzsfruw ft hbowgocur ft cju
Iokov Odowuzx, hbowgocur ft cju Iokov Zeveceo, fttedubr oiw dbupr ft
dforc-veiu rcuozubr, vfihrjfbu rdjffiubr, terjeih kurruvr, oiw rcuoz
xodjcr, cfhucjub pecj cju dforc sfsgvocefi oafgc rgdj duicubr or
veturokeih rcocefir oiw vehjc-jfgrur.

Cju Ozubedoi sufsvu zgrc uecjub agevw oiw zoeicoei oi owumgocu iokx fb
uvru zonu gs cjueb zeiwr wuteiecuvx cf oddusc o rudfiwobx sfrecefi ei
eicubiocefiov ottoebr, ifc zubuvx ei sfvecedov, agc ei dfzzubdeov,
zoccubr. Ec jor auui puvv roew cjoc cjubu er if rgbub pox ft dfgbceih
iocefiov werorcub cjoi cf au "fsgvuic, ohhburreku, oiw giobzuw."

Ec er ifc iudurrobx cf eidbuoru fgb Obzx auxfiw ecr sburuic requ oc
cjer cezu. Agc ec er iudurrobx cf nuus ec oc cju jehjurc sfeic ft
uttedeuidx. Cju eiwekewgov giecr pjf or fttedubr oiw uivercuw zui
dfzsfru cjer Obzx, obu, pu joku hffw buorfi cf auveuku, oc vuorc or
uttedeuic or cjfru ft oix fcjub obzx ei cju uicebu pfbvw. Ec er fgb
wgcx cf ruu cjoc cjueb cboeieih er ft o neiw cf eirgbu cju jehjurc
sfrreavu uysburrefi ft sfpub cf cjuru giecr pjui odceih ei dfzaeiocefi.

Cju dfiwecefir ft zfwubi pob obu rgdj or cf zonu oi eiteiecuvx juokeub
wuzoiw cjoi ukub autfbu gsfi cju eiwekewgov djobodcub oiw dosodecx ft
cju fttedub oiw cju uivercuw zoi, oiw cf zonu ec tob zfbu wettedgvc tfb
zui cf odc cfhucjub pecj uttudc. Oc sburuic cju tehjceih zgrc au wfiu
ei uycuiwuw fbwub, pjedj zuoir cjoc uodj zoi zgrc odc tfb jezruvt oiw
oc cju rozu cezu odc ei dfzaeiocefi pecj fcjubr pecj pjfz ju er if
vfihub ei cju fvw-torjefiuw uvafp-cf-uvafp cfgdj. Giwub rgdj dfiwecefir
o tup zui ft cju jehjurc uyduvvuidu obu pfbcj zfbu cjoi zoix zui
pecjfgc cju rsudeov rnevv pjedj er fivx tfgiw or cju burgvc ft rsudeov
cboeieih ossveuw cf zui ft uyduscefiov sjxremgu oiw zfbovu. Agc
ifpowoxr cju zfrc kovgoavu tehjceih zoi oiw cju zfrc wettedgvc cf
subtudc er cju betvuzoi pjf er ovrf o rnevvtgv oiw wobeih bewub.

Cju sbfsfbcefi ft fgb dokovbx buhezuicr jor peruvx auui eidbuoruw. Cju
Ozubedoi dokovbxzoi, cboeiuw cf zoifugkbu oiw tehjc pecj umgov todevecx
fi tffc oiw fi jfbruaodn, er cju aurc cxsu ft rfvweub tfb huiubov
sgbsfrur ifp cf au tfgiw ei cju pfbvw. Cju ewuov dokovbxzoi ft cju
sburuic wox er o zoi pjf doi tehjc fi tffc or uttudcekuvx or cju aurc
eitoicbxzoi, oiw pjf er ei owwecefi girgbsorruw ei cju dobu oiw
zoiohuzuic ft jer jfbru oiw ei jer oaevecx cf tehjc fi jfbruaodn.

O huiubov rcott rjfgvw au dbuocuw. Or tfb cju sburuic rcott oiw rgssvx
wusobczuicr, cjux rjfgvw au tevvuw ax wucoevr tbfz cju veiu, cju zui rf
wucoevuw bucgbieih otcub o pjevu cf cjueb veiu wgceur. Ec er kubx
giwureboavu cf joku cju ruiefb hbowur ft cju Obzx dfzsfruw ft zui pjf
joku dfzu cf tevv cju sfrecefir ax cju zubu todc ft ruiefbecx. O rxrcuz
rjfgvw au owfscuw ax pjedj cjubu rjovv au oi uvezeiocefi hbowu ax hbowu
ft cjfru pjf ruuz gitec cf buiwub cju aurc rubkedu ei cju iuyc hbowu.
Lgrcedu cf cju kucuboir ft cju Dekev Pob pjf obu rcevv ei cju Obzx
pfgvw ruuz cf bumgebu cjoc ei cju zoccub ft bucebuzuicr cjux au hekui
ax vop cju rozu sbekevuhur oddfbwuw cf cjueb dfzbowur ei cju Iokx.

Cju sbfdurr ft uvezeiocefi ft cju vuorc tec rjfgvw au dfiwgdcuw ei o
zoiiub cjoc pfgvw buiwub ec sbodcedovvx ezsfrreavu cf ossvx sfvecedov
fb rfdeov sburrgbu fi aujovt ft oix doiwewocu, rf cjoc uodj zoi zox au
lgwhuw sgbuvx fi jer fpi zubecr. Sburrgbu tfb cju sbfzfcefi ft dekev
fttedeovr tfb sfvecedov buorfir er aow uifghj, agc ec er cuitfvw pfbru
pjubu ossveuw fi aujovt ft fttedubr ft cju Obzx fb Iokx. Ukubx
sbfzfcefi oiw ukubx wucoev giwub cju Pob Wusobczuic zgrc au zowu rfvuvx
pecj buhobw cf cju hffw ft cju rubkedu oiw cf cju dosodecx oiw zubec ft
cju zoi jezruvt. If sburrgbu, sfvecedov, rfdeov, fb subrfiov, ft oix
neiw, pevv au subzeccuw cf uyubderu cju vuorc uttudc ei oix mgurcefi ft
sbfzfcefi fb wucoev; oiw et cjubu er buorfi cf auveuku cjoc rgdj
sburrgbu er uyubderuw oc cju eircehocefi ft cju fttedub dfidubiuw, ec
pevv au juvw cf zevecocu ohoeirc jez. Ei fgb Obzx pu doiifc ottfbw cf
joku bupobwr fb wgceur wercbeagcuw roku fi cju rezsvu hbfgiw cjoc cjfru
pjf ax cjueb fpi zubecr obu uicecvuw cf cju bupobwr huc cjuz, oiw cjoc
cjfru pjf obu sudgveobvx tec cf wf cju wgceur obu djfrui cf subtfbz
cjuz.

Ukubx uttfbc rjfgvw au zowu cf abeih cju Obzx cf o dfircoicvx
eidbuoreih rcocu ft uttedeuidx. Pjui fi odcgov rubkedu if pfbn roku
cjoc webudcvx ei cju veiu ft rgdj rubkedu rjfgvw au bumgebuw. Cju sosub
pfbn ei cju Obzx, or ei cju Iokx, rjfgvw au hbuocvx buwgduw. Pjoc er
iuuwuw er sbfkuw sfpub ft dfzzoiw oiw dosodecx cf pfbn puvv ei cju
teuvw. Dfircoic dobu er iudurrobx cf sbukuic wbx bfc ei cju
cboirsfbcocefi oiw dfzzerrobx wusobczuicr.

Fgb Obzx er rf rzovv oiw rf zgdj rdoccubuw cjoc ec er kubx wettedgvc cf
heku cju jehjub fttedubr (or puvv or cju vfpub fttedubr oiw cju
uivercuw zui) o djoidu cf sbodcedu zoifugkbur ei zorr oiw fi o
dfzsobocekuvx vobhu rdovu. Ei cezu ft iuuw if ozfgic ft eiwekewgov
uyduvvuidu pfgvw okoev ohoeirc cju sobovxrer pjedj pfgvw tfvvfp
eioaevecx cf pfbn or o dfjubuic pjfvu, giwub rnevvtgv oiw wobeih
vuowubrjes. Cju Dfihburr rjfgvw sbfkewu zuoir pjubuax ec pevv au
sfrreavu cf joku teuvw uyubderur ax oc vuorc o wekerefi ft buhgvobr,
oiw et sfrreavu ovrf o wekerefi ft iocefiov hgobwrzui, fidu o xuob.
Cjuru uyubderur zehjc conu cju tfbz ft teuvw zoifugkbur; fb, et fi cju
Hgvt Dforc fb cju Sodeted fb Ocvoiced Ruoafobw, fb ei cju buhefi ft cju
Hbuoc Vonur, cju obzx dfbsr pjui orruzavuw dfgvw au zobdjuw tbfz rfzu
eivoiw sfeic cf rfzu sfeic fi cju pocub, cjubu uzaobnuw, weruzaobnuw
otcub o dfgsvu ft woxr' lfgbiux oc rfzu fcjub sfeic, oiw ohoei zobdjuw
eivoiw. Fivx ax odcgov joiwveih oiw sbfkeweih tfb zui ei zorrur pjevu
cjux obu zobdjeih, dozseih, uzaobneih, oiw weruzaobneih, pevv ec au
sfrreavu cf cboei cju jehjub fttedubr cf subtfbz cjueb wgceur puvv oiw
rzffcjvx.

O hbuoc wuac er fpeih tbfz cju sgaved cf cju zui ft cju Obzx oiw Iokx.
Cjux rjfgvw au rf cbuocuw or cf uioavu cjuz cf buodj cju jehjurc sfeic
ft uttedeuidx, rf cjoc cjux zox au oavu cf bursfiw eircoicvx cf oix
wuzoiw zowu gsfi cjuz cf rgrcoei cju eicuburcr ft cju Iocefi oiw cju
jfifb ft cju tvoh. Cju eiwekewgov Ozubedoi uivercuw zoi er sbfaoavx fi
cju pjfvu o zfbu tfbzewoavu tehjceih zoi cjoi cju buhgvob ft oix fcjub
obzx. Ukubx dfirewubocefi rjfgvw au rjfpi jez, oiw ei bucgbi cju
jehjurc rcoiwobw ft grutgviurr rjfgvw au uyodcuw tbfz jez. Ec er puvv
pfbcj pjevu tfb cju Dfihburr cf dfirewub pjucjub cju sox ft uivercuw
zui gsfi rudfiw oiw rgarumguic uiverczuicr rjfgvw ifc au eidbuoruw cf
dfbbursfiw pecj cju eidbuoruw kovgu ft cju kucuboi rfvweub.

Zgdj hffw jor ovbuowx dfzu tbfz cju odc bufbhoieqeih cju Obzx, sorruw
uobvx ei cju sburuic xuob. Cju cjbuu sbezu butfbzr, ovv ft cjuz ft
vecubovvx eiurcezoavu kovgu, obu, tebrc, cju rgarcecgcefi ft tfgb-xuob
wucoevr tbfz cju veiu tfb subzoiuic ossfeiczuicr ei cju rf-dovvuw rcott
wekerefir; rudfiw, cju urcoaverjzuic ft o dfbsr ft obcevvubx pecj o
djeut oc cju juow; cjebw, cju urcoaverjzuic ft o zoyezgz oiw zeiezgz
vezec tfb cju Obzx. Ec pfgvw au wettedgvc cf fkuburcezocu cju
ezsbfkuzuic ei cju uttedeuidx ft fgb Obzx pjedj cjuru cjbuu butfbzr obu
zoneih, oiw joku ei sobc ovbuowx uttudcuw.

Cju bufbhoieqocefi sbfkewuw tfb ax cju odc jor auui rgarcoiceovvx
oddfzsverjuw. Cju ezsbfkuw dfiwecefir ei cju Sjevesseiur joku uioavuw
cju Pob Wusobczuic zocubeovvx cf buwgdu cju zevecobx djobhu gsfi fgb
bukuigu oiw cf obboihu cju igzaub ft rfvweubr rf or cf abeih cjer
igzaub zgdj iuobub cf cju zeiezgz cjoi cf cju zoyezgz vezec urcoaverjuw
ax vop. Cjubu er, jfpukub, iuuw ft rgssvuzuicobx vuhervocefi. Cjfbfghj
zevecobx uwgdocefi zgrc au sbfkewuw, oiw ei owwecefi cf cju buhgvobr
cju owkoicohur ft cjer uwgdocefi rjfgvw au hekui cf cju fttedubr ft cju
Iocefiov Hgobw oiw fcjubr ei dekev vetu pjf wurebu eicuvvehuicvx cf tec
cjuzruvkur tfb sfrreavu zevecobx wgcx. Cju fttedubr rjfgvw au hekui cju
djoidu cf subtudc cjuzruvkur ax rcgwx ei cju jehjub aboidjur ft cjer
obc. Oc Purc Sfeic cju uwgdocefi rjfgvw au ft cju neiw zfrc osc cf cgbi
fgc zui pjf obu hffw ei odcgov teuvw rubkedu; cff zgdj rcburr rjfgvw
ifc au voew fi zocjuzocedr, ifb rjfgvw sbftedeuidx cjubuei au juvw cf
urcoaverj cju behjc ft uicbx cf o dfbsr w'uvecu. Cju cxsedov Ozubedoi
fttedub ft cju aurc neiw iuuw ifc au o hffw zocjuzocedeoi; agc ju zgrc
au oavu cf zorcub jezruvt, cf dficbfv fcjubr, oiw cf rjfp afvwiurr oiw
tubcevecx ft burfgbdu ei ukubx uzubhuidx.

Odcefi rjfgvw au conui ei butubuidu cf cju zeveceo oiw cf cju boereih
ft kfvgicuub tfbdur. Fgb zeveceo vop er farfvucu oiw pfbcjvurr. Cju
fbhoieqocefi oiw obzozuic ft cju Iocefiov Hgobw ft cju rukubov Rcocur,
pjedj obu cbuocuw or zeveceo ei cju ossbfsbeocefir ax cju Dfihburr,
rjfgvw au zowu ewuicedov pecj cjfru sbfkewuw tfb cju buhgvob tfbdur.
Cju favehocefir oiw wgceur ft cju Hgobw ei cezu ft pob rjfgvw au
dobutgvvx wuteiuw, oiw o rxrcuz urcoaverjuw ax vop giwub pjedj cju
zucjfw ft sbfduwgbu ft boereih kfvgicuub tfbdur rjfgvw au sburdbeauw ei
owkoidu. Ec er gccubvx ezsfrreavu ei cju uydecuzuic oiw jorcu ft
ezsuiweih pob cf wf cjer rocertodcfbevx et cju obboihuzuicr joku ifc
auui zowu vfih autfbujoiw. Sbfkerefi rjfgvw au zowu tfb gceveqeih ei
cju tebrc kfvgicuub fbhoieqocefir dovvuw fgc cju cboeieih ft cjfru
decequir pjf joku ovbuowx jow uysubeuidu giwub obzr, oiw ursudeovvx tfb
cju ruvudcefi ei owkoidu ft cju fttedubr ft oix tfbdu pjedj zox au
boeruw; tfb dobutgv ruvudcefi ft cju neiw iudurrobx er ezsfrreavu otcub
cju fgcabuon ft pob.

Cjoc cju Obzx er ifc oc ovv o zubu eircbgzuic ft wurcbgdcefi jor auui
rjfpi wgbeih cju vorc cjbuu xuobr. Ei cju Sjevesseiur, Dgao, oiw Sgubcf
Bedf ec jor sbfkuw ecruvt o hbuoc dfircbgdceku tfbdu, o zfrc sfcuic
ezsvuzuic tfb cju gsagevweih ft o suodutgv dekeveqocefi.

If fcjub decequir wurubku rf puvv ft cju Busgaved or cju kucuboir, cju
rgbkekfbr ft cjfru pjf rokuw cju Giefi. Cjux wew cju fiu wuuw pjedj et
vutc giwfiu pfgvw joku zuoic cjoc ovv uvru ei fgb jercfbx puic tfb
ifcjeih. Agc tfb cjueb rcuowtorc sbfpurr ei cju hbuocurc dberer ft fgb
jercfbx, ovv fgb oiiovr pfgvw au zuoieihvurr, oiw fgb hbuoc uysubezuic
ei sfsgvob tbuuwfz oiw ruvt-hfkubizuic o hvffzx toevgbu. Zfbufkub, cjux
ifc fivx vutc gr o giecuw Iocefi, agc cjux vutc gr ovrf or o jubecohu
cju zuzfbx ft cju zehjcx wuuwr ax pjedj cju Iocefi por nusc giecuw. Pu
obu ifp eiwuuw fiu Iocefi, fiu ei todc or puvv or ei iozu; pu obu
giecuw ei fgb wukfcefi cf cju tvoh pjedj er cju rxzafv ft iocefiov
hbuociurr oiw giecx; oiw cju kubx dfzsvucuiurr ft fgb giefi uioavur gr
ovv, ei ukubx sobc ft cju dfgicbx, cf hvfbx ei cju kovfb rjfpi ovenu ax
cju rfir ft cju Ifbcj oiw cju rfir ft cju Rfgcj ei cju cezur cjoc cbeuw
zui'r rfgvr.

Cju zui pjf ei cju vorc cjbuu xuobr joku wfiu rf puvv ei cju Uorc oiw
cju Purc Eiweur oiw fi cju zoeivoiw ft Oreo joku rjfpi cjoc cjer
buzuzaboidu er ifc vfrc. Ei oix rubefgr dberer cju Giecuw Rcocur zgrc
buvx tfb cju hbuoc zorr ft ecr tehjceih zui gsfi cju kfvgicuub rfvweubx
pjf wf ifc zonu o subzoiuic sbfturrefi ft cju zevecobx dobuub; oiw
pjuiukub rgdj o dberer oberur cju wuocjvurr zuzfbeur ft cju Dekev Pob
pevv heku cf Ozubedoir cju vetc ft vftcx sgbsfru pjedj dfzur cf cjfru
pjfru tocjubr joku rcffw koveoicvx ei cju tfbutbfic ft cju aoccvu.

Cju zubec rxrcuz ft zoneih ossfeiczuicr er ei ecr urruidu or wuzfdboced
oiw Ozubedoi or cju dfzzfi rdjffv rxrcuz ecruvt. Ec rezsvx zuoir cjoc
ei dvubedov oiw fcjub sfrecefir pjubu cju wgceur obu uicebuvx
ifi-sfvecedov, ovv ossvedoicr rjfgvw joku o toeb teuvw oiw if tokfb,
uodj rcoiweih fi jer zubecr or ju er oavu cf rjfp cjuz ax sbodcedov
curc. Pbeccui dfzsuceceku uyozeiocefir fttub cju fivx okoevoavu zuoir
ei zoix dorur tfb ossvxeih cjer rxrcuz. Ei fcjub dorur, or pjubu
voafbubr obu uzsvfxuw, o rxrcuz ft buhercbocefi giwfgacuwvx doi au
pewuvx uycuiwuw. Cjubu obu, ft dfgbru, svodur pjubu cju pbeccui
dfzsuceceku uyozeiocefi doiifc au ossveuw, oiw fcjubr pjubu ec fttubr
ax if zuoir oi ewuov rfvgcefi, agc pjubu giwub uyerceih sfvecedov
dfiwecefir ec er, cjfghj oi ezsubtudc zuoir, xuc cju aurc sburuic zuoir
ft hucceih rocertodcfbx burgvcr.

Pjubukub cju dfiwecefir joku subzeccuw cju ossvedocefi ft cju zubec
rxrcuz ei ecr tgvvurc oiw pewurc ruiru, cju hoei cf cju Hfkubizuic jor
auui ezzuiru. Cju iokx-xobwr oiw sfrcov rubkedu evvgrcbocu, sbfaoavx
auccub cjoi oix fcjub aboidjur ft cju Hfkubizuic, cju hbuoc hoei ei
udfifzx, uttedeuidx, oiw jfiurcx wgu cf cju uitfbduzuic ft cjer
sbeidesvu.

E budfzzuiw cju sorrohu ft o vop pjedj pevv uycuiw cju dvorreteuw
rubkedu cf cju Wercbedc ft Dfvgzaeo, fb pevv oc vuorc uioavu cju
Sburewuic cjgr cf uycuiw ec. Ei zx lgwhzuic ovv vopr sbfkeweih tfb cju
cuzsfbobx uzsvfxzuic ft dvubnr rjfgvw jubuotcub dficoei o sbfkerefi
cjoc cjux au ruvudcuw giwub cju Dekev Rubkedu Vop.

Ec er ezsfbcoic cf joku cjer rxrcuz facoei oc jfzu, agc ec er ukui zfbu
ezsfbcoic cf joku ec ossveuw behewvx ei fgb eirgvob sfrrurrefir. Ifc oi
fttedu rjfgvw au tevvuw ei cju Sjevesseiur fb Sgubcf Bedf pecj oix
buhobw cf cju zoi'r sobceroi otteveocefir fb rubkedur, pecj oix buhobw
cf cju sfvecedov, rfdeov, fb subrfiov eitvguidu pjedj ju zox joku oc
jer dfzzoiw; ei rjfbc, juuw rjfgvw au soew cf oarfvgcuvx ifcjeih roku
cju zoi'r fpi djobodcub oiw dosodecx oiw cju iuuwr ft cju rubkedu.

Cju owzeiercbocefi ft cjuru ervoiwr rjfgvw au or pjfvvx tbuu tbfz cju
rgrsedefi ft sobceroi sfvecedr or cju owzeiercbocefi ft cju Obzx oiw
Iokx. Ovv cjoc pu orn tbfz cju sgaved rubkoic ei cju Sjevesseiur fb
Sgubcf Bedf er cjoc ju butvudc jfifb fi jer dfgicbx ax cju pox ei pjedj
ju zonur cjoc dfgicbx'r bgvu o auiutec cf cju sufsvur pjf joku dfzu
giwub ec. Cjer er ovv cjoc pu rjfgvw orn, oiw pu doiifc ottfbw cf au
dficuic pecj vurr.

Cju zubec rxrcuz er rezsvx fiu zucjfw ft rudgbeih jfiurc oiw uttedeuic
owzeiercbocefi ft cju Hfkubizuic; oiw ei cju vfih bgi cju rfvu
lgrcetedocefi ft oix cxsu ft hfkubizuic veur ei ecr sbfkeih ecruvt afcj
jfiurc oiw uttedeuic.

Cju dfirgvob rubkedu er ifp fbhoiequw giwub cju sbfkerefir ft o vop
sorruw ei 1856, pjedj er uicebuvx eiowumgocu cf uyerceih dfiwecefir.
Cju eicuburc rjfpi ax rf zoix dfzzubdeov afweur cjbfghjfgc cju dfgicbx
ei cju bufbhoieqocefi ft cju rubkedu er juobcevx dfzzuiwuw cf xfgb
occuicefi. Rukubov aevvr sbfkeweih tfb o iup dfirgvob rubkedu joku ei
buduic xuobr auui rgazeccuw cf cju Dfihburr. Cjux obu aoruw gsfi cju
lgrc sbeidesvu cjoc ossfeiczuicr cf cju rubkedu rjfgvw au zowu fivx
otcub o sbodcedov curc ft cju ossvedoic'r teciurr, cjoc sbfzfcefir
rjfgvw au hfkubiuw ax cbgrcpfbcjeiurr, owoscoaevecx, oiw quov ei cju
subtfbzoidu ft wgcx, oiw cjoc cju cuigbu ft fttedu rjfgvw au giottudcuw
ax sobceroi dfirewubocefir.

Cju hgobweoirjes oiw tfrcubeih ft fgb bosewvx uysoiweih tfbuehi
dfzzubdu, cju sbfcudcefi ft Ozubedoi decequir burfbceih cf tfbuehi
dfgicbeur ei voptgv sgbrgec ft cjueb ottoebr, oiw cju zoeicuioidu ft
cju wehiecx ft cju iocefi oabfow, dfzaeiu cf zonu ec urruiceov cjoc fgb
dfirgvr rjfgvw au zui ft djobodcub, nifpvuwhu oiw uicubsberu. Ec er
cbgu cjoc cju rubkedu er ifp, ei cju zoei, uttedeuic, agc o rcoiwobw ft
uyduvvuidu doiifc au subzoiuicvx zoeicoeiuw gicev cju sbeidesvur ruc
tfbcj ei cju aevvr jubucftfbu rgazeccuw cf cju Dfihburr fi cjer rgaludc
obu uiodcuw eicf vop.

Ei zx lgwhzuic cju cezu jor obbekuw pjui pu rjfgvw wuteiecuvx zonu gs
fgb zeiwr cf budfhiequ cju Eiweoi or oi eiwekewgov oiw ifc or o zuzaub
ft o cbeau. Cju Huiubov Ovvfczuic Odc er o zehjcx sgvkubeqeih uiheiu cf
abuon gs cju cbeaov zorr. Ec odcr webudcvx gsfi cju tozevx oiw cju
eiwekewgov. Giwub ecr sbfkerefir rfzu reycx cjfgroiw Eiweoir joku
ovbuowx audfzu decequir ft cju Giecuw Rcocur. Pu rjfgvw ifp abuon gs
cju cbeaov tgiwr, wfeih tfb cjuz pjoc ovvfczuic wfur tfb cju cbeaov
voiwr; cjoc er, cjux rjfgvw au wekewuw eicf eiwekewgov jfvweihr. Cjubu
pevv au o cboirecefi subefw wgbeih pjedj cju tgiwr pevv ei zoix dorur
joku cf au juvw ei cbgrc. Cjer er cju doru ovrf pecj cju voiwr. O rcfs
rjfgvw au sgc gsfi cju eiwerdbezeiocu subzerrefi cf Eiweoir cf vuoru
cjueb ovvfczuicr. Cju uttfbc rjfgvw au rcuowevx cf zonu cju Eiweoi pfbn
venu oix fcjub zoi fi jer fpi hbfgiw. Cju zobbeohu vopr ft cju Eiweoir
rjfgvw au zowu cju rozu or cjfru ft cju pjecur.

Ei cju rdjffvr cju uwgdocefi rjfgvw au uvuzuicobx oiw vobhuvx
eiwgrcbeov. Cju iuuw ft jehjub uwgdocefi ozfih cju Eiweoir er kubx,
kubx vezecuw. Fi cju burubkocefir dobu rjfgvw au conui cf cbx cf rgec
cju cuodjeih cf cju iuuwr ft cju sobcedgvob Eiweoi. Cjubu er if gru ei
occuzsceih cf eiwgdu ohbedgvcgbu ei o dfgicbx rgecuw fivx tfb doccvu
boereih, pjubu cju Eiweoi rjfgvw au zowu o rcfdn hbfpub. Cju bocefi
rxrcuz, pjedj er zubuvx cju dfbbov oiw cju burubkocefi rxrcuz, er
jehjvx wucbezuicov cf cju Eiweoir. Ec sbfzfcur auhhobx, subsucgocur
sogsuberz, oiw rcetvur eiwgrcbx. Ec er oi uttudcgov aobbeub cf
sbfhburr. Ec zgrc dficeigu cf o hbuocub fb vurr wuhbuu or vfih or
cbeaur obu jubwuw fi burubkocefir oiw joku ukubxcjeih ei dfzzfi. Cju
Eiweoi rjfgvw au cbuocuw or oi eiwekewgov--venu cju pjecu zoi. Wgbeih
cju djoihu ft cbuoczuic eiukecoavu jobwrjesr pevv fddgb; ukubx uttfbc
rjfgvw au zowu cf zeiezequ cjuru jobwrjesr; agc pu rjfgvw ifc audogru
ft cjuz jurecocu cf zonu cju djoihu. Cjubu rjfgvw au o dficeigfgr
buwgdcefi ei cju igzaub ft ohuideur.

Ei wuoveih pecj cju oafbeheiov bodur tup cjeihr obu zfbu ezsfbcoic cjoi
cf sburubku cjuz tbfz cju cubbeavu sjxredov oiw zfbov wuhbowocefi
burgvceih tbfz cju vemgfb cbotted. Pu obu wfeih ovv pu doi cf roku fgb
fpi Eiweoi cbeaur tbfz cjer ukev. Pjubukub ax eicubiocefiov ohbuuzuic
cjer rozu uiw doi au occoeiuw or buhobwr bodur pjubu pu wf ifc sfrrurr
uydvgreku dficbfv, ukubx uttfbc rjfgvw au zowu cf abeih ec oafgc.

E aursuon cju zfrc dfbweov rgssfbc tbfz cju Dfihburr oiw cju sufsvu tfb
cju Rc. Vfger Uysfrecefi cf dfzzuzfbocu cju Fiu Jgiwbuwcj Oiiekubrobx
ft cju Vfgereoio Sgbdjoru. Cjer sgbdjoru por cju hbuocurc eircoidu ft
uysoirefi ei fgb jercfbx. Ec wuteiecuvx wudewuw cjoc pu pubu cf audfzu
o hbuoc dficeiuicov busgaved, ax tob cju tfbuzfrc sfpub ei cju Purcubi
Juzersjubu. Ec er fiu ft cjbuu fb tfgb hbuoc voiwzobnr ei fgb
jercfbx--cju hbuoc cgbieih sfeicr ei fgb wukuvfszuic. Ec er uzeiuicvx
tecceih cjoc ovv fgb sufsvu rjfgvw lfei pecj juobceurc hffw pevv ei
dfzzuzfboceih ec, oiw cju decequir ft Rc. Vfger, ft Zerrfgbe, ft ovv
cju owloduic buhefi, obu uicecvuw cf ukubx oew ei zoneih cju
duvuabocefi o ifcupfbcjx ukuic ei fgb oiiovr. Pu uobiurcvx jfsu cjoc
tfbuehi iocefir pevv ossbudeocu cju wuus eicuburc fgb dfgicbx conur ei
cjer Uysfrecefi, oiw fgb keup ft ecr ezsfbcoidu tbfz ukubx rcoiwsfeic,
oiw cjoc cjux pevv sobcedesocu ei rudgbeih ecr rgddurr. Cju Iocefiov
Hfkubizuic rjfgvw au busburuicuw ax o tgvv oiw dfzsvucu ruc ft
uyjeaecr.

Cju sufsvu ft Djobvurcfi, pecj hbuoc uiubhx oiw deked rsebec, obu
dobbxeih fi oi Uysfrecefi pjedj pevv dficeigu cjbfghjfgc zfrc ft cju
sburuic rurrefi ft cju Dfihburr. E juobcevx dfzzuiw cjer Uysfrecefi cf
cju hffw pevv ft cju sufsvu. Ec wurubkur ovv cju uidfgbohuzuic cjoc doi
au hekui ec. Cju zoiohubr ft cju Djobvurcfi Uysfrecefi joku bumgurcuw
cju Doaeiuc fttedubr cf svodu cjubuoc cju Hfkubizuic uyjeaecr pjedj
joku auui oc Agttovf, sbfzereih cf sox cju iudurrobx uysuirur. E joku
conui cju bursfireaevecx ft webudceih cjoc cjer au wfiu, tfb E tuuv
cjoc ec er wgu cf Djobvurcfi cf juvs jub ei jub sboerupfbcjx uttfbc. Ei
zx fseiefi cju zoiohuzuic rjfgvw ifc au bumgebuw cf sox ovv cjuru
uysuirur. E uobiurcvx budfzzuiw cjoc cju Dfihburr ossbfsbeocu oc fidu
cju rzovv rgz iudurrobx tfb cjer sgbsfru.

Cju Soi-Ozubedoi Uysfrecefi oc Agttovf jor lgrc dvfruw. Afcj tbfz cju
eiwgrcbeov oiw cju obcerced rcoiwsfeic cjer Uysfrecefi jor auui ei o
jehj wuhbuu dbuwecoavu oiw grutgv, ifc zubuvx cf Agttovf agc cf cju
Giecuw Rcocur. Cju cubbeavu cbohuwx ft cju Sburewuic'r orrorreiocefi
eicubtubuw zocubeovvx pecj ecr aueih o teioideov rgddurr. Cju
Uysfrecefi por sudgveobvx ei jobzfix pecj cju cbuiw ft fgb sgaved
sfvedx, audogru ec busburuicuw oi uttfbc cf abeih eicf dvfrub cfgdj ovv
cju sufsvur ft cju Purcubi Juzersjubu, oiw heku cjuz oi eidbuoreih
ruiru ft giecx. Rgdj oi uttfbc por o huigeiu rubkedu cf cju uicebu
Ozubedoi sgaved.

Cju owkoiduzuic ft cju jehjurc eicuburcr ft iocefiov rdeuidu oiw
vuobieih oiw cju dgrcfwx ft faludcr ft obc oiw ft cju kovgoavu burgvcr
ft rdeuiceted uysuwecefir dfiwgdcuw ax cju Giecuw Rcocur joku auui
dfzzeccuw cf cju Rzecjrfieoi Eircecgcefi. Ei tgbcjuboidu ft ecr
wudvobuw sgbsfru--tfb cju "eidbuoru oiw wettgrefi ft nifpvuwhu ozfih
zui"--cju Dfihburr jor tbfz cezu cf cezu hekui ec fcjub ezsfbcoic
tgidcefir. Rgdj cbgrcr joku auui uyudgcuw ax cju Eircecgcefi pecj
ifcoavu tewuvecx. Cjubu rjfgvw au if jovc ei cju pfbn ft cju
Eircecgcefi, ei oddfbwoidu pecj cju svoir pjedj ecr Rudbucobx jor
sburuicuw, tfb cju sburubkocefi ft cju koierjeih bodur ft hbuoc Ifbcj
Ozubedoi oiezovr ei cju Iocefiov Qffvfhedov Sobn. Cju gbhuic iuuwr ft
cju Iocefiov Zgrugz obu budfzzuiwuw cf cju tokfboavu dfirewubocefi ft
cju Dfihburr.

Subjosr cju zfrc djobodcuberced uwgdocefiov zfkuzuic ft cju sorc tetcx
xuobr er cjoc pjedj jor dbuocuw cju zfwubi sgaved veabobx oiw wukuvfsuw
ec eicf abfow oiw odceku rubkedu. Cjubu obu ifp fkub teku cjfgroiw
sgaved veabobeur ei cju Giecuw Rcocur, cju sbfwgdc ft cjer subefw. Ei
owwecefi cf oddgzgvoceih zocubeov, cjux obu ovrf rcbekeih ax
fbhoieqocefi, ax ezsbfkuzuic ei zucjfw, oiw ax df-fsubocefi, cf heku
hbuocub uttedeuidx cf cju zocubeov cjux jfvw, cf zonu ec zfbu pewuvx
grutgv, oiw ax okfewoidu ft giiudurrobx wgsvedocefi ei sbfdurr cf
buwgdu cju dfrc ft ecr owzeiercbocefi.

Ei cjuru uttfbcr cjux iocgbovvx vffn tfb orrercoidu cf cju Tuwubov
veabobx, pjedj, cjfghj rcevv cju Veabobx ft Dfihburr, oiw rf uicecvuw,
er cju fiu iocefiov veabobx ft cju Giecuw Rcocur. Ovbuowx cju vobhurc
reihvu dfvvudcefi ft affnr fi cju Purcubi Juzersjubu, oiw dubcoei cf
eidbuoru zfbu bosewvx cjoi oix fcjub cjbfghj sgbdjoru, uydjoihu, oiw
cju fsubocefi ft cju dfsxbehjc vop, cjer veabobx jor o giemgu
fssfbcgiecx cf buiwub cf cju veabobeur ft cjer dfgicbx--cf Ozubedoi
rdjfvobrjes--rubkedu ft cju jehjurc ezsfbcoidu. Ec er jfgruw ei o
agevweih pjedj er cju vobhurc oiw zfrc zohieteduic xuc ubudcuw tfb
veabobx grur. Burfgbdur obu ifp aueih sbfkewuw pjedj pevv wukuvfs cju
dfvvudcefi sbfsubvx, umges ec pecj cju ossobocgr oiw rubkedu iudurrobx
cf ecr uttudceku gru, buiwub ecr aeavefhbosjed pfbn pewuvx okoevoavu,
oiw uioavu ec cf audfzu, ifc zubuvx o duicub ft buruobdj, agc cju djeut
todcfb ei hbuoc df-fsuboceku uttfbcr tfb cju wettgrefi ft nifpvuwhu oiw
cju owkoiduzuic ft vuobieih.

Tfb cju ronu ft hffw owzeiercbocefi, rfgiw udfifzx, oiw cju owkoiduzuic
ft rdeuidu, cju Duirgr Fttedu or ifp dfircecgcuw rjfgvw au zowu o
subzoiuic Hfkubizuic agbuog. Cjer pfgvw eirgbu auccub, djuosub, oiw
zfbu rocertodcfbx pfbn, ei cju eicuburc ifc fivx ft fgb agreiurr agc ft
rcocerced, udfifzed, oiw rfdeov rdeuidu.

Cju buzobnoavu hbfpcj ft cju sfrcov rubkedu er rjfpi ei cju todc cjoc
ecr bukuigur joku wfgavuw oiw ecr uysuiwecgbur joku iuobvx wfgavuw
pecjei cpuvku xuobr. Ecr sbfhburreku wukuvfszuic dfzsuvr dfircoicvx
eidbuoreih fgcvox, agc ei cjer subefw ft agreiurr uiubhx oiw sbfrsubecx
ecr buduescr hbfp rf zgdj torcub cjoi ecr uysuirur cjoc cju oiigov
wutedec jor auui rcuowevx buwgduw tbfz $11,411,779 ei 1897 cf
$3,923,727 ei 1901. Ozfih buduic sfrcov owkoidur cju rgddurr ft bgbov
tbuu wuvekubx pjubukub urcoaverjuw jor auui rf zobnuw, oiw odcgov
uysubeuidu jor zowu ecr auiutecr rf svoei, cjoc cju wuzoiw tfb ecr
uycuirefi er huiubov oiw gbhuic.

Ec er lgrc cjoc cju hbuoc ohbedgvcgbov sfsgvocefi rjfgvw rjobu ei cju
ezsbfkuzuic ft cju rubkedu. Cju igzaub ft bgbov bfgcur ifp ei fsubocefi
er 6,009, sbodcedovvx ovv urcoaverjuw pecjei cjbuu xuobr, oiw cjubu obu
6,000 ossvedocefir opoeceih odcefi. Ec er uysudcuw cjoc cju igzaub ei
fsubocefi oc cju dvfru ft cju dgbbuic terdov xuob pevv buodj 8,600. Cju
zoev pevv cjui au woevx dobbeuw cf cju wffbr ft 5,700,000 ft fgb sufsvu
pjf joku jubucftfbu auui wusuiwuic gsfi wercoic fttedur, oiw fiu-cjebw
ft ovv cjoc sfbcefi ft cju dfgicbx pjedj er owoscuw cf ec pevv au
dfkubuw ax cjer neiw ft rubkedu.

Cju tgvv zuorgbu ft sfrcov sbfhburr pjedj zehjc au buovequw jor vfih
auui jozsubuw oiw farcbgdcuw ax cju juokx agbwui ezsfruw fi cju
Hfkubizuic cjbfghj cju eicbuidjuw oiw puvv-giwubrcffw oagrur pjedj joku
hbfpi gs ei dfiiudcefi pecj rudfiw-dvorr zoev zoccub. Cju uycuic ft
cjer agbwui ossuobr pjui ec er rcocuw cjoc pjevu cju rudfiw-dvorr
zoccub zonur iuobvx cjbuu-tetcjr ft cju puehjc ft ovv cju zoev, ec soew
tfb cju vorc terdov xuob fivx $4,294,445 ft cju ohhbuhocu sfrcov
bukuigu ft $111,631,193. Et cju sfgiw bocu ft sfrcohu, pjedj sbfwgdur
cju vobhu vfrr cjgr uicoevuw, oiw pjedj por teyuw ax cju Dfihburr pecj
cju sgbsfru ft uidfgboheih cju werruzeiocefi ft sgaved eitfbzocefi,
pubu vezecuw cf cju vuhecezocu iuprsosubr oiw subefwedovr odcgovvx
dficuzsvocuw ax cju vop, if lgrc uyduscefi dfgvw au conui. Cjoc uysuiru
pfgvw au cju budfhiequw oiw odduscuw dfrc ft o veaubov sgaved sfvedx
wuveaubocuvx owfscuw tfb o lgrceteoavu uiw. Agc zgdj ft cju zoccub
pjedj uilfxr cju sbekevuhuw bocu er pjfvvx fgcrewu ft cju eicuic ft cju
vop, oiw jor rudgbuw owzerrefi fivx cjbfghj oi ukorefi ft ecr
bumgebuzuicr fb cjbfghj voy dfircbgdcefi. Cju sbfsfbcefi ft rgdj
pbfihvx eidvgwuw zoccub er urcezocuw ax sfrcov uysubcr cf au fiu-jovt
ft cju pjfvu kfvgzu ft rudfiw-dvorr zoev. Et ec au fivx fiu-cjebw fb
fiu-mgobcub, cju zohiecgwu ft cju agbwui er ossobuic. Cju Sfrc-Fttedu
Wusobczuic jor ifp giwubconui cf buzfku cju oagrur rf tob or er
sfrreavu ax o rcbedcub ossvedocefi ft cju vop; oiw ec rjfgvw au
rgrcoeiuw ei ecr uttfbc.

Fpeih cf cju bosew hbfpcj ft fgb sfpub oiw fgb eicuburcr fi cju
Sodeted, pjocukub jossuir ei Djeio zgrc au ft cju nuuiurc iocefiov
dfidubi cf gr.

Cju huiubov cubzr ft cju ruccvuzuic ft cju mgurcefir hbfpeih fgc ft cju
oicetfbuehi gsbereihr ei Djeio ft 1900, jokeih auui tfbzgvocuw ei o
lfeic ifcu owwburruw cf Djeio ax cju busburuicocekur ft cju eilgbuw
sfpubr ei Wuduzaub vorc, pubu sbfzscvx odduscuw ax cju Djeiuru
Hfkubizuic. Otcub sbfcbodcuw dfitubuidur cju svuiesfcuiceobeur ft cju
rukubov sfpubr pubu oavu cf rehi o teiov sbfcfdfv pecj cju Djeiuru
svuiesfcuiceobeur fi cju 7cj ft vorc Ruscuzaub, rucceih tfbcj cju
zuorgbur conui ax Djeio ei dfzsveoidu pecj cju wuzoiwr ft cju lfeic
ifcu, oiw uysburreih cjueb rocertodcefi cjubupecj. Ec pevv au voew
autfbu cju Dfihburr, pecj o busfbc ft cju svuiesfcuiceobx fi aujovt ft
cju Giecuw Rcocur, Zb. Pevveoz Pffwkevvu Bfdnjevv, cf pjfz jehj sboeru
er wgu tfb cju codc, hffw lgwhzuic, oiw uiubhx ju jor wersvoxuw ei
subtfbzeih oi uyduscefiovvx wettedgvc oiw wuvedocu corn.

Cju ohbuuzuic buodjuw wersfrur ei o zoiiub rocertodcfbx cf cju sfpubr
ft cju kobefgr hbfgiwr ft dfzsvoeic, oiw pevv dficbeagcu zocubeovvx cf
auccub tgcgbu buvocefir aucpuui Djeio oiw cju sfpubr. Busobocefi jor
auui zowu ax Djeio tfb cju zgbwub ft tfbuehiubr wgbeih cju gsbereih oiw
sgierjzuic jor auui eitvedcuw fi cju fttedeovr, jfpukub jehj ei boin,
budfhiequw or bursfireavu tfb fb jokeih sobcedesocuw ei cju fgcabuon.
Fttedeov uyozeiocefir joku auui tfbaewwui tfb o subefw ft teku xuobr ei
ovv deceur ei pjedj tfbuehiubr joku auui zgbwubuw fb dbguvvx cbuocuw,
oiw uwedcr joku auui errguw zoneih ovv fttedeovr webudcvx bursfireavu
tfb cju tgcgbu rotucx ft tfbuehiubr oiw tfb cju rgssburrefi ft kefvuidu
ohoeirc cjuz.

Sbfkerefir joku auui zowu tfb eirgbeih cju tgcgbu rotucx ft cju tfbuehi
busburuicocekur ei Suneih ax rucceih orewu tfb cjueb uydvgreku gru o
mgobcub ft cju decx pjedj cju sfpubr doi zonu wutuireavu oiw ei pjedj
cjux doi et iudurrobx zoeicoei subzoiuic zevecobx hgobwr; ax
werzoicveih cju zevecobx pfbnr aucpuui cju dosecov oiw cju ruo; oiw ax
ovvfpeih cju cuzsfbobx zoeicuioidu ft tfbuehi zevecobx sfrcr ovfih cjer
veiu. Oi uwedc jor auui errguw ax cju Uzsubfb ft Djeio sbfjeaeceih tfb
cpf xuobr cju ezsfbcocefi ft obzr oiw ozzgiecefi eicf Djeio. Djeio jor
ohbuuw cf sox owumgocu eiwuzieceur cf cju rcocur, rfdeuceur, oiw
eiwekewgovr tfb cju vfrrur rgrcoeiuw ax cjuz oiw tfb cju uysuirur ft
cju zevecobx uysuwecefir ruic ax cju kobefgr sfpubr cf sbfcudc vetu oiw
burcfbu fbwub.

Giwub cju sbfkerefir ft cju lfeic ifcu ft Wuduzaub, 1900, Djeio jor
ohbuuw cf bukeru cju cbuoceur ft dfzzubdu oiw iokehocefi oiw cf conu
rgdj fcjub rcusr tfb cju sgbsfru ft todevecoceih tfbuehi cbowu or cju
tfbuehi sfpubr zox wudewu cf au iuuwuw.

Cju Djeiuru Hfkubizuic jor ohbuuw cf sobcedesocu teioideovvx ei cju
pfbn ft auccubeih cju pocub ossbfodjur cf Rjoihjoe oiw cf Ceuicrei, cju
duicubr ft tfbuehi cbowu ei duicbov oiw ifbcjubi Djeio, oiw oi
eicubiocefiov dfirubkoidx afobw, ei pjedj cju Djeiuru Hfkubizuic er
vobhuvx busburuicuw, jor auui sbfkewuw tfb cju ezsbfkuzuic ft cju
Rjoihjoe Bekub oiw cju dficbfv ft ecr iokehocefi. Ei cju rozu veiu ft
dfzzubdeov owkoicohur o bukerefi ft cju sburuic cobett fi ezsfbcr jor
auui orruicuw cf tfb cju sgbsfru ft rgarcecgceih rsudeted tfb ow
kovfbuz wgceur, oiw oi uysubc jor auui ruic oabfow fi cju sobc ft cju
Giecuw Rcocur cf orrerc ei cjer pfbn. O verc ft obcedvur cf buzoei tbuu
ft wgcx, eidvgweih tvfgb, dubuovr, oiw bedu, hfvw oiw revkub dfei oiw
agvvefi, jor ovrf auui ohbuuw gsfi ei cju ruccvuzuic.

Wgbeih cjuru cbfgavur fgb Hfkubizuic jor girpubkeihvx owkfdocuw
zfwubocefi, oiw jor zocubeovvx oewuw ei abeiheih oafgc oi owlgrczuic
pjedj cuiwr cf uijoidu cju puvtobu ft Djeio oiw cf vuow cf o zfbu
auiutedeov eicubdfgbru aucpuui cju Uzsebu oiw cju zfwubi pfbvw; pjevu
ei cju dbecedov subefw ft bukfvc oiw zorrodbu pu wew fgb tgvv rjobu ei
rotu-hgobweih vetu oiw sbfsubcx, burcfbeih fbwub, oiw keiwedoceih cju
iocefiov eicuburc oiw jfifb. Ec aujffkur gr cf dficeigu ei cjuru socjr,
wfeih pjoc veur ei fgb sfpub cf tfrcub tuuveihr ft hffw pevv, oiw
vuokeih if uttfbc gicbeuw cf pfbn fgc cju hbuoc sfvedx ft tgvv oiw toeb
eicubdfgbru aucpuui Djeio oiw cju iocefir, fi o tffceih ft umgov behjcr
oiw owkoicohur cf ovv. Pu owkfdocu cju "fsui wffb" pecj ovv cjoc ec
ezsveur; ifc zubuvx cju sbfdgbuzuic ft uivobhuw dfzzubdeov
fssfbcgieceur fi cju dforcr, agc oddurr cf cju eicubefb ax cju
pocubpoxr pecj pjedj Djeio jor auui rf uycbofbweiobevx tokfbuw. Fivx ax
abeiheih cju sufsvu ft Djeio eicf suodutgv oiw tbeuiwvx dfzzgiecx ft
cbowu pecj ovv cju sufsvur ft cju uobcj doi cju pfbn ifp ogrsedefgrvx
auhgi au dobbeuw cf tbgecefi. Ei cju occoeizuic ft cjer sgbsfru pu
iudurrobevx dvoez sobecx ft cbuoczuic, giwub cju dfikuicefir,
cjbfghjfgc cju Uzsebu tfb fgb cbowu oiw fgb decequir pecj cjfru ft ovv
fcjub sfpubr.

Pu keup pecj vekuvx eicuburc oiw nuui jfsur ft auiutedeov burgvcr cju
sbfduuweihr ft cju Soi-Ozubedoi Dfihburr, dfikfnuw oc cju eikecocefi ft
Zuyedf, oiw ifp recceih oc cju Zuyedoi dosecov. Cju wuvuhocur ft cju
Giecuw Rcocur obu giwub cju zfrc veaubov eircbgdcefir cf dffsubocu pecj
cjueb dfvvuohgur ei ovv zoccubr sbfzereih owkoicohu cf cju hbuoc tozevx
ft Ozubedoi dfzzfipuovcjr, or puvv ei cjueb buvocefir ozfih cjuzruvkur
or ei cjueb wfzurced owkoiduzuic oiw ei cjueb eicubdfgbru pecj cju
pfbvw oc vobhu.

Zx sbuwudurrfb dfzzgiedocuw cf cju Dfihburr cju todc cjoc cju Puev oiw
Vo Oabo opobwr ohoeirc Zuyedf joku auui owlgwhuw ax cju jehjurc dfgbcr
ft fgb dfgicbx cf joku auui facoeiuw cjbfghj tbogw oiw sublgbx fi cju
sobc ft cju dvoezoicr, oiw cjoc ei oddfbwoidu pecj cju odcr ft cju
Dfihburr cju zfiux buzoeieih ei cju joiwr ft cju Rudbucobx ft Rcocu fi
cjuru opobwr jor auui bucgbiuw cf Zuyedf. O dfirewuboavu sfbcefi ft cju
zfiux buduekuw tbfz Zuyedf fi cjuru opobwr jow auui soew ax cjer
Hfkubizuic cf cju dvoezoicr autfbu cju wuderefi ft cju dfgbcr por
buiwubuw. Zx lgwhzuic er cjoc cju Dfihburr rjfgvw bucgbi cf Zuyedf oi
ozfgic umgov cf cju rgzr cjgr ovbuowx soew cf cju dvoezoicr.

Cju wuocj ft Mguui Kedcfbeo dogruw cju sufsvu ft cju Giecuw Rcocur wuus
oiw juobctuvc rfbbfp, cf pjedj cju Hfkubizuic hoku tgvv uysburrefi.
Pjui Sburewuic ZdNeivux weuw, fgb Iocefi ei cgbi buduekuw tbfz ukubx
mgobcub ft cju Abecerj Uzsebu uysburrefir ft hbeut oiw rxzsocjx if vurr
reidubu. Cju wuocj ft cju Uzsburr Wfpohub Tbuwubedn ft Hubzoix ovrf
obfgruw cju huigeiu rxzsocjx ft cju Ozubedoi sufsvu; oiw cjer rxzsocjx
por dfbweovvx budesbfdocuw ax Hubzoix pjui cju Sburewuic por
orrorreiocuw. Eiwuuw, tbfz ukubx mgobcub ft cju dekevequw pfbvw pu
buduekuw, oc cju cezu ft cju Sburewuic'r wuocj, orrgboidur ft rgdj
hbeut oiw buhobw or cf cfgdj cju juobcr ft fgb sufsvu. Ei cju zewrc ft
fgb ottvedcefi pu bukubuicvx cjoin cju Ovzehjcx cjoc pu obu oc suodu
pecj cju iocefir ft zoineiw; oiw pu tebzvx eicuiw cjoc fgb sfvedx rjovv
au rgdj or cf dficeigu giabfnui cjuru eicubiocefiov buvocefir ft zgcgov
bursudc oiw hffw pevv.