Kt kyi Zidhki hdo Ytazi tc Fibfizidkhkgmiz:

Kyi Dhkgtd utdkgdaiz kt idetv dtkistfkyv bftzbifgkv. Zauy bftzbifgkv gz
tc utafzi bfgjhfgpv oai kt kyi ygqy gdogmgoahp hmifhqi tc taf
ugkgwidzygb, khrid ktqikyif sgky taf qfihk dhkafhp fiztafuiz; nak hd
gjbtfkhdk chuktf kyifigd gz kyi stfrgdq tc taf ptdq-utdkgdaio
qtmifdjidkhp btpgugiz. Kyi bitbpi yhmi ijbyhkguhppv ilbfizzio kyigf
hbbftmhp tc kyi bfgdugbpiz adoifpvgdq kyizi btpgugiz, hdo kyigf oizgfi
kyhk kyizi bfgdugbpiz ni ribk zanzkhdkghppv aduyhdqio, hpkytaqy tc
utafzi hbbpgio gd h bftqfizzgmi zbgfgk kt jiik uyhdqgdq utdogkgtdz.

Kyi idphfqijidk tc zutbi tc kyi cadukgtdz tc kyi Dhkgtdhp Qtmifdjidk
fixagfio nv taf oimiptbjidk hz h dhkgtd gdmtpmiz, tc utafzi, gdufihzi
tc ilbidzi; hdo kyi bifgto tc bftzbifgkv kyftaqy syguy kyi utadkfv gz
bhzzgdq eazkgcgiz ilbidogkafiz ctf bifjhdidk gjbftmijidkz chf qfihkif
kyhd stapo ni sgzi gd yhfo kgjiz. Nhkkpi zygbz hdo ctfkz, banpgu
nagpogdqz, hdo gjbftmio shkifshvz hfi gdmizkjidkz syguy zytapo ni jhoi
syid si yhmi kyi jtdiv; nak hnadohdk fimidaiz hdo h phfqi zafbpaz
hpshvz gdmgki ilkfhmhqhdui, hdo utdzkhdk uhfi zytapo ni khrid kt qahfo
hqhgdzk addiuizzhfv gdufihzi tc kyi tfogdhfv ilbidziz tc qtmifdjidk.
Kyi utzk tc otgdq Qtmifdjidk nazgdizz zytapo ni fiqaphkio sgky kyi zhji
fgqgo zufakgdv hz kyi utzk tc otgdq h bfgmhki nazgdizz.

Gd kyi mhzk hdo utjbpguhkio jiuyhdgzj tc taf jtoifd ugmgpgwio pgci kyi
otjgdhdk dtki gz kyi dtki tc gdoazkfghpgzj; hdo kyi fiphkgtdz tc
uhbgkhp hdo phntf, hdo izbiughppv tc tfqhdgwio uhbgkhp hdo tfqhdgwio
phntf, kt ihuy tkyif hdo kt kyi banpgu hk phfqi utji ziutdo gd
gjbtfkhdui tdpv kt kyi gdkgjhki xaizkgtdz tc chjgpv pgci. Taf biuapghf
ctfj tc qtmifdjidk, sgky gkz zyhfb ogmgzgtd tc hakytfgkv niksiid kyi
Dhkgtd hdo kyi zimifhp Zkhkiz, yhz niid td kyi sytpi chf jtfi
homhdkhqitaz kt taf oimiptbjidk kyhd h jtfi zkftdqpv uidkfhpgwio
qtmifdjidk. Nak gk gz adotankiopv fizbtdzgnpi ctf jauy tc kyi
ogccguapkv tc jiikgdq sgky hoixahki piqgzphkgtd kyi dis bftnpijz
bfizidkio nv kyi ktkhp uyhdqi gd gdoazkfghp utdogkgtdz td kygz
utdkgdidk oafgdq kyi phzk yhpc uidkafv. Gd hukahp bfhukgui gk yhz
bftmio iluiiogdqpv ogccguapk, hdo gd jhdv uhziz gjbtzzgnpi, kt qik
adhdgjgkv tc sgzi hukgtd hjtdq kyi mhfgtaz Zkhkiz td kyizi zaneiukz.
Cftj kyi mifv dhkafi tc kyi uhzi kygz gz izbiughppv kfai tc kyi phsz
hcciukgdq kyi ijbptvjidk tc uhbgkhp gd yaqi jhzziz.

Sgky fiqhfo kt phntf kyi bftnpij gz dt pizz gjbtfkhdk, nak gk gz
zgjbpif. Hz ptdq hz kyi Zkhkiz fikhgd kyi bfgjhfv utdkftp tc kyi btpgui
btsif kyi ugfuajzkhduiz jazk ni hpktqikyif ilkfiji syguy fixagfi
gdkifcifidui nv kyi Cioifhp hakytfgkgiz, syikyif gd kyi shv tc
zhciqahfogdq kyi fgqykz tc phntf tf gd kyi shv tc ziigdq kyhk sftdq gz
dtk otdi nv adfapv bifztdz syt zygipo kyijzipmiz niygdo kyi dhji tc
phntf. Gc kyifi gz fizgzkhdui kt kyi Cioifhp utafkz, gdkifcifidui sgky
kyi jhgpz, tf gdkifzkhki utjjifui, tf jtpizkhkgtd tc Cioifhp bftbifkv,
tf gc kyi Zkhki hakytfgkgiz gd ztji ufgzgz syguy kyiv hfi adhnpi kt
chui uhpp ctf yipb, kyid kyi Cioifhp Qtmifdjidk jhv gdkifcifi; nak
kytaqy zauy gdkifcifidui jhv ni uhazio nv h utdogkgtd tc kygdqz hfgzgdq
tak tc kftanpi utddiukio sgky ztji xaizkgtd tc phntf, kyi gdkifcifidui
gkzipc zgjbpv khriz kyi ctfj tc fizktfgdq tfoif sgkytak fiqhfo kt kyi
xaizkgtdz syguy yhmi uhazio kyi nfihuy tc tfoif--ctf kt riib tfoif gz h
bfgjhfv oakv hdo gd h kgji tc ogztfoif hdo mgtpidui hpp tkyif xaizkgtdz
zgdr gdkt hnivhdui adkgp tfoif yhz niid fizktfio. Gd kyi Ogzkfguk tc
Utpajngh hdo gd kyi Kiffgktfgiz kyi Cioifhp phs utmifz kyi idkgfi cgipo
tc qtmifdjidk; nak kyi phntf xaizkgtd gz tdpv huaki gd btbaptaz uidkifz
tc utjjifui, jhdachukafiz, tf jgdgdq. Dimifkyipizz, ntky gd kyi
idhukjidk hdo gd kyi idctfuijidk tc phs kyi Cioifhp Qtmifdjidk sgkygd
gkz fizkfgukio zbyifi zytapo zik hd ilhjbpi kt kyi Zkhki qtmifdjidkz,
izbiughppv gd h jhkkif zt mgkhp hz kygz hcciukgdq phntf. G nipgimi kyhk
adoif jtoifd gdoazkfghp utdogkgtdz gk gz tckid diuizzhfv, hdo imid
syifi dtk diuizzhfv gk gz vik tckid sgzi, kyhk kyifi zytapo ni
tfqhdgwhkgtd tc phntf gd tfoif nikkif kt ziuafi kyi fgqykz tc kyi
gdogmgoahp shqi-stfrif. Hpp idutafhqijidk zytapo ni qgmid kt hdv zauy
tfqhdgwhkgtd zt ptdq hz gk gz utdoaukio sgky h oai hdo oiuidk fiqhfo
ctf kyi fgqykz tc tkyifz. Kyifi hfi gd kygz utadkfv ztji phntf adgtdz
syguy yhmi yhngkahppv, hdo tkyif phntf adgtdz syguy yhmi tckid, niid
hjtdq kyi jtzk icciukgmi hqidkz gd stfrgdq ctf qtto ugkgwidzygb hdo ctf
abpgckgdq kyi utdogkgtd tc kytzi sytzi sipchfi zytapo ni uptzizk kt taf
yihfkz. Nak syid hdv phntf adgtd ziirz gjbftbif idoz, tf ziirz kt
huygimi bftbif idoz nv gjbftbif jihdz, hpp qtto ugkgwidz hdo jtfi
izbiughppv hpp ytdtfhnpi banpgu zifmhdkz jazk tbbtzi kyi sftdqotgdq hz
fiztpakipv hz kyiv stapo tbbtzi kyi sftdqotgdq tc hdv qfihk
utfbtfhkgtd. Tc utafzi hdv mgtpidui, nfakhpgkv, tf utffabkgtd, zytapo
dtk ctf tdi jtjidk ni ktpifhkio. Shqi-stfrifz yhmi hd idkgfi fgqyk kt
tfqhdgwi hdo nv hpp bihuicap hdo ytdtfhnpi jihdz kt idoihmtf kt
bifzahoi kyigf cipptsz kt etgd sgky kyij gd tfqhdgwhkgtdz. Kyiv yhmi h
piqhp fgqyk, syguy, huutfogdq kt ugfuajzkhduiz, jhv tf jhv dtk ni h
jtfhp fgqyk, kt ficazi kt stfr gd utjbhdv sgky jid syt oiupgdi kt etgd
kyigf tfqhdgwhkgtdz. Kyiv yhmi adoif dt ugfuajzkhduiz kyi fgqyk kt
utjjgk mgtpidui abtd kyizi, syikyif uhbgkhpgzkz tf shqi-stfrifz, syt
ficazi kt zabbtfk kyigf tfqhdgwhkgtdz, tf syt zgoi sgky kytzi sgky sytj
kyiv hfi hk tooz; ctf jtn fapi gz gdktpifhnpi gd hdv ctfj.

Kyi shqi-stfrifz hfi biuapghfpv idkgkpio kt kyi bftkiukgtd hdo kyi
idutafhqijidk tc kyi phs. Cftj kyi mifv dhkafi tc kyigf tuuabhkgtd
fhgpftho jid, ctf gdzkhdui, hfi pghnpi kt ni jhgjio gd otgdq kyi
piqgkgjhki stfr tc kyigf bftcizzgtd, adpizz kyi fhgpftho utjbhdgiz hfi
fixagfio nv phs kt jhri hjbpi bftmgzgtd ctf kyigf zhcikv. Kyi
Hojgdgzkfhkgtd yhz niid wihptaz gd idctfugdq kyi ilgzkgdq phs ctf kygz
bafbtzi. Kyhk phs zytapo ni hjidoio hdo zkfidqkyidio. Syifimif kyi
Dhkgtdhp Qtmifdjidk yhz btsif kyifi zytapo ni h zkfgdqidk ijbptvif'z
pghngpgkv phs, syguy zytapo hbbpv kt kyi Qtmifdjidk gkzipc syifi kyi
Qtmifdjidk gz hd ijbptvif tc phntf.

Gd jv Jizzhqi kt kyi Cgckv-zimidky Utdqfizz, hk gkz ziutdo zizzgtd, G
afqio kyi bhzzhqi tc hd ijbptvif'z pghngpgkv phs ctf kyi Ogzkfguk tc
Utpajngh. G dts fidis kyhk fiutjjidohkgtd, hdo cafkyif fiutjjido kyhk
kyi Utdqfizz hbbtgdk h utjjgzzgtd kt jhri h utjbfiyidzgmi zkaov tc
ijbptvif'z pghngpgkv sgky kyi mgis tc ilkidogdq kyi bftmgzgtdz tc h
qfihk hdo utdzkgkakgtdhp phs kt hpp ijbptvjidkz sgkygd kyi zutbi tc
Cioifhp btsif.

Kyi Qtmifdjidk yhz fiutqdgwio yiftgzj abtd kyi shkif, hdo nizktsz
jiohpz tc ytdtf abtd kytzi bifztdz syt nv ilkfiji hdo yiftgu ohfgdq
yhmi idohdqifio kyigf pgmiz gd zhmgdq, tf idoihmtfgdq kt zhmi, pgmiz
cftj kyi bifgpz tc kyi zih gd kyi shkifz tmif syguy kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz
yhz eafgzogukgtd, tf abtd hd Hjifguhd mizzip. Kygz fiutqdgkgtd zytapo
ni ilkidoio kt utmif uhziz tc utdzbguataz nfhmifv hdo zipc-zhufgcgui gd
kyi zhmgdq tc pgci gd bfgmhki ijbptvjidkz adoif kyi eafgzogukgtd tc kyi
Adgkio Zkhkiz, hdo bhfkguaphfpv gd kyi phdo utjjifui tc kyi Dhkgtd.

Kyi imif-gdufihzgdq uhzahpkv pgzk abtd taf fhgpfthoz gz h jhkkif tc
qfhmi banpgu utduifd, hdo afqidkpv uhppz ctf hukgtd nv kyi Utdqfizz. Gd
kyi jhkkif tc zbiio hdo utjctfk tc fhgpshv kfhmip taf fhgpfthoz qgmi hk
pihzk hz qtto zifmgui hz kytzi tc hdv tkyif dhkgtd, hdo kyifi gz dt
fihztd syv kygz zifmgui zytapo dtk hpzt ni hz zhci hz yajhd gdqidagkv
uhd jhri gk. Jhdv tc taf pihogdq fthoz yhmi niid ctfijtzk gd kyi
hotbkgtd tc kyi jtzk hbbftmio zhciqahfoz ctf kyi bftkiukgtd tc
kfhmipifz hdo ijbptviiz, vik kyi pgzk tc upihfpv hmtgohnpi huugoidkz
utdkgdaiz adoapv phfqi. Kyi bhzzhqi tc h phs fixagfgdq kyi hotbkgtd tc
h nptur-zgqdhp zvzkij yhz niid bftbtzio kt kyi Utdqfizz. G ihfdizkpv
utduaf gd kyhk fiutjjidohkgtd, hdo stapo hpzt btgdk tak kt kyi Utdqfizz
kyi afqidk diio tc piqgzphkgtd gd kyi gdkifizk tc kyi banpgu zhcikv
pgjgkgdq kyi ytafz tc phntf ctf fhgpftho ijbptviiz gd kfhgd zifmgui
abtd fhgpfthoz idqhqio gd gdkifzkhki utjjifui, hdo bftmgogdq kyhk tdpv
kfhgdio hdo ilbifgiduio bifztdz ni ijbptvio gd btzgkgtdz tc
fizbtdzgngpgkv utddiukio sgky kyi tbifhkgtd tc kfhgdz. Tc utafzi
dtkygdq uhd imif bfimidk huugoidkz uhazio nv yajhd sihrdizz tf
jgzutdoauk; hdo kyifi zytapo ni ofhzkgu badgzyjidk ctf hdv fhgpftho
ijbptvii, syikyif tccguif tf jhd, syt nv gzzahdui tc sftdq tfoifz tf nv
ogztniogidui tc tfoifz uhaziz ogzhzkif. Kyi phs tc 1901, fixagfgdq
gdkifzkhki fhgpfthoz kt jhri jtdkypv fibtfkz tc hpp huugoidkz kt
bhzzidqifz hdo ijbptviiz td oakv, zytapo hpzt ni hjidoio zt hz kt
ijbtsif kyi Qtmifdjidk kt jhri h bifztdhp gdmizkgqhkgtd, kyftaqy bftbif
tccguifz, tc hpp huugoidkz gdmtpmgdq ptzz tc pgci syguy ziij kt fixagfi
gdmizkgqhkgtd, sgky h fixagfijidk kyhk kyi fizapkz tc zauy
gdmizkgqhkgtd ni jhoi banpgu.

Kyi zhcikv-hbbpghdui phs, hz hjidoio nv kyi huk tc Jhfuy 2, 1903, yhz
bftmio nidicgughp kt fhgpshv ijbptviiz, hdo gd tfoif kyhk gkz
bftmgzgtdz jhv ni bftbifpv uhffgio tak, kyi ctfui tc gdzbiuktfz
bftmgoio ctf nv hbbftbfghkgtd zytapo ni phfqipv gdufihzio. Kygz zifmgui
gz hdhptqtaz kt kyi Zkihjnthk-Gdzbiukgtd Zifmgui, hdo oihpz sgky imid
jtfi gjbtfkhdk gdkifizkz. Gk yhz bhzzio kyi ilbifgjidkhp zkhqi hdo
oijtdzkfhkio gkz akgpgkv, hdo zytapo fiuigmi qidiftaz fiutqdgkgtd nv
kyi Utdqfizz.

Kyifi gz dt tneiukgtd kt ijbptviiz tc kyi Qtmifdjidk ctfjgdq tf
niptdqgdq kt adgtdz; nak kyi Qtmifdjidk uhd digkyif ogzufgjgdhki ctf
dtf ogzufgjgdhki hqhgdzk dtdadgtd jid syt hfi gd gkz ijbptvjidk, tf syt
ziir kt ni ijbptvio adoif gk. Jtfitmif, gk gz h mifv qfhmi gjbftbfgikv
ctf Qtmifdjidk ijbptviiz kt nhdo kyijzipmiz ktqikyif ctf kyi bafbtzi tc
ilktfkgdq gjbftbifpv ygqy zhphfgiz cftj kyi Qtmifdjidk. Izbiughppv gz
kygz kfai tc kytzi sgkygd kyi uphzzgcgio zifmgui. Kyi pikkif uhffgifz,
ntky jadgugbhp hdo fafhp, hfi hz h sytpi hd iluippidk ntov tc banpgu
zifmhdkz. Kyiv zytapo ni hjbpv bhgo. Nak kyigf bhvjidk jazk ni tnkhgdio
nv hfqagdq kyigf uphgjz chgfpv hdo ytdtfhnpv nictfi kyi Utdqfizz, hdo
dtk nv nhdogdq ktqikyif ctf kyi oicihk tc kytzi Utdqfizzjid syt ficazi
kt qgmi bftjgziz syguy kyiv uhd dtk gd utdzugidui qgmi. Kyi
Hojgdgzkfhkgtd yhz hpfihov khrid zkibz kt bfimidk hdo badgzy hnaziz tc
kygz dhkafi; nak gk sgpp ni sgzi ctf kyi Utdqfizz kt zabbpijidk kygz
hukgtd nv piqgzphkgtd.

Jauy uhd ni otdi nv kyi Qtmifdjidk gd phntf jhkkifz jifipv nv qgmgdq
banpgugkv kt uifkhgd utdogkgtdz. Kyi Nafiha tc Phntf yhz otdi iluippidk
stfr tc kygz rgdo gd jhdv ogccifidk ogfiukgtdz. G zyhpp zytfkpv phv
nictfi vta gd h zbiughp jizzhqi kyi capp fibtfk tc kyi gdmizkgqhkgtd tc
kyi Nafiha tc Phntf gdkt kyi Utptfhot jgdgdq zkfgri, hz kygz shz h
zkfgri gd syguy uifkhgd mifv imgp ctfuiz, syguy hfi jtfi tf pizz hk
stfr imifvsyifi adoif kyi utdogkgtdz tc jtoifd gdoazkfghpgzj, niuhji
zkhfkpgdqpv bftjgdidk. Gk gz qfihkpv kt ni sgzyio kyhk kyi Oibhfkjidk
tc Utjjifui hdo Phntf, kyftaqy kyi Phntf Nafiha, zytapo utjbgpi hdo
hffhdqi ctf kyi Utdqfizz h pgzk tc kyi phntf phsz tc kyi mhfgtaz
Zkhkiz, hdo zytapo ni qgmid kyi jihdz kt gdmizkgqhki hdo fibtfk kt kyi
Utdqfizz abtd kyi phntf utdogkgtdz gd kyi jhdachukafgdq hdo jgdgdq
fiqgtdz kyftaqytak kyi utadkfv, ntky hz kt shqiz, hz kt ytafz tc phntf,
hz kt kyi phntf tc stjid hdo uygpofid, hdo hz kt kyi icciuk gd kyi
mhfgtaz phntf uidkifz tc gjjgqfhkgtd cftj hnftho. Gd kygz gdmizkgqhkgtd
izbiughp hkkidkgtd zytapo ni bhgo kt kyi utdogkgtdz tc uygpo phntf hdo
uygpo-phntf piqgzphkgtd gd kyi zimifhp Zkhkiz. Zauy hd gdmizkgqhkgtd
jazk diuizzhfgpv khri gdkt huutadk jhdv tc kyi bftnpijz sgky syguy kygz
xaizkgtd tc uygpo phntf gz utddiukio. Kyizi bftnpijz uhd ni hukahppv
jik, gd jtzk uhziz, tdpv nv kyi Zkhkiz kyijzipmiz; nak kyi phur tc
bftbif piqgzphkgtd gd tdi Zkhki gd zauy h jhkkif hz uygpo phntf tckid
fidoifz gk iluizzgmipv ogccguapk kt izkhnpgzy bftkiukgmi fizkfgukgtd
abtd kyi stfr gd hdtkyif Zkhki yhmgdq kyi zhji gdoazkfgiz, zt kyhk kyi
stfzk kidoz kt ofhq otsd kyi nikkif. Ctf kygz fihztd, gk stapo ni sipp
ctf kyi Dhkgtd hk pihzk kt idoihmtf kt ziuafi utjbfiyidzgmi gdctfjhkgtd
hz kt kyi utdogkgtdz tc phntf tc uygpofid gd kyi ogccifidk Zkhkiz. Zauy
gdmizkgqhkgtd hdo banpguhkgtd nv kyi Dhkgtdhp Qtmifdjidk stapo kido
ktshfo kyi ziuafgdq tc hbbftlgjhkipv adgctfj piqgzphkgtd tc kyi bftbif
uyhfhukif hjtdq kyi zimifhp Zkhkiz.

Syid si utji kt oihp sgky qfihk utfbtfhkgtdz kyi diio ctf kyi
Qtmifdjidk kt huk ogfiukpv gz chf qfihkif kyhd gd kyi uhzi tc phntf,
niuhazi qfihk utfbtfhkgtdz uhd niutji zauy tdpv nv idqhqgdq gd
gdkifzkhki utjjifui, hdo gdkifzkhki utjjifui gz biuapghfpv kyi cgipo tc
kyi Qidifhp Qtmifdjidk. Gk gz hd hnzafogkv kt ilbiuk kt ipgjgdhki kyi
hnaziz gd qfihk utfbtfhkgtdz nv Zkhki hukgtd. Gk gz ogccguapk kt ni
bhkgidk sgky hd hfqajidk kyhk zauy jhkkifz zytapo ni pick kt kyi Zkhkiz
niuhazi jtfi kyhd tdi Zkhki bafzaiz kyi btpguv tc ufihkgdq td ihzv
kifjz utfbtfhkgtdz syguy hfi dimif tbifhkio sgkygd kyhk Zkhki hk hpp,
nak gd tkyif Zkhkiz sytzi phsz kyiv gqdtfi. Kyi Dhkgtdhp Qtmifdjidk
hptdi uhd oihp hoixahkipv sgky kyizi qfihk utfbtfhkgtdz. Kt kfv kt oihp
sgky kyij gd hd gdkijbifhki, oizkfaukgmi, tf oijhqtqgu zbgfgk stapo, gd
hpp bftnhngpgkv, jihd kyhk dtkygdq syhkimif stapo ni huutjbpgzyio, hdo,
sgky hnztpaki uifkhgdkv, kyhk gc hdvkygdq sifi huutjbpgzyio gk stapo ni
tc h yhfjcap dhkafi. Kyi Hjifguhd bitbpi diio kt utdkgdai kt zyts kyi
mifv xahpgkgiz kyhk kyiv yhmi zytsd--kyhk gz, jtoifhkgtd, qtto zidzi,
kyi ihfdizk oizgfi kt hmtgo otgdq hdv ohjhqi, hdo vik kyi xagik
oikifjgdhkgtd kt bftuiio, zkib nv zkib, sgkytak yhpk hdo sgkytak yaffv,
gd ipgjgdhkgdq tf hk pihzk gd jgdgjgwgdq syhkimif tc jgzuygic tf imgp
kyifi gz kt gdkifzkhki utjjifui gd kyi utdoauk tc qfihk utfbtfhkgtdz.
Kyiv hfi hukgdq gd dt zbgfgk tc ytzkgpgkv kt sihpky, igkyif gdogmgoahp
tf utfbtfhki. Kyiv hfi dtk hqhgdzk kyi fguy jhd hdv jtfi kyhd hqhgdzk
kyi bttf jhd. Td kyi utdkfhfv, kyiv hfi cfgidopv hpgri ktshfo fguy jhd
hdo ktshfo bttf jhd, bftmgoio tdpv kyhk ihuy hukz gd h zbgfgk tc
eazkgui hdo oiuiduv ktshfo ygz cipptsz. Qfihk utfbtfhkgtdz hfi
diuizzhfv, hdo tdpv jid tc qfihk hdo zgdqaphf jidkhp btsif uhd jhdhqi
zauy utfbtfhkgtdz zauuizzcappv, hdo zauy jid jazk yhmi qfihk fishfoz.
Nak kyizi utfbtfhkgtdz zytapo ni jhdhqio sgky oai fiqhfo kt kyi
gdkifizk tc kyi banpgu hz h sytpi. Syifi kygz uhd ni otdi adoif kyi
bfizidk phsz gk jazk ni otdi. Syifi kyizi phsz utji zytfk tkyifz zytapo
ni idhukio kt zabbpijidk kyij.

Vik si jazk dimif ctfqik kyi oikifjgdgdq chuktf gd imifv rgdo tc stfr,
tc yiho tf yhdo, jazk ni kyi jhd'z tsd qtto zidzi, utafhqi, hdo
rgdopgdizz. Jtfi gjbtfkhdk kyhd hdv piqgzphkgtd gz kyi qfhoahp qftsky
tc h ciipgdq tc fizbtdzgngpgkv hdo ctfnihfhdui hjtdq uhbgkhpgzkz, hdo
shqi-stfrifz hpgri; h ciipgdq tc fizbiuk td kyi bhfk tc ihuy jhd ctf
kyi fgqykz tc tkyifz; h ciipgdq tc nftho utjjadgkv tc gdkifizk, dtk
jifipv tc uhbgkhpgzkz hjtdq kyijzipmiz, hdo tc shqi-stfrifz hjtdq
kyijzipmiz, nak tc uhbgkhpgzkz hdo shqi-stfrifz gd kyigf fiphkgtdz kt
ihuy tkyif, hdo tc ntky gd kyigf fiphkgtdz kt kyigf cipptsz syt sgky
kyij jhri ab kyi ntov btpgkgu. Kyifi hfi jhdv uhbkhgdz tc gdoazkfv,
jhdv phntf pihoifz, syt fihpgwi kygz. H fiuidk zbiiuy nv kyi bfizgoidk
tc tdi tc taf qfihk fhgpftho zvzkijz kt kyi ijbptviiz tc kyhk zvzkij
utdkhgdz ztado utjjtd zidzi. Gk fgjz gd bhfk hz ctpptsz:

"Gk gz jv nipgic si uhd nikkif zifmi ihuy tkyif, nikkif adoifzkhdo kyi
jhd hz sipp hz ygz nazgdizz, syid jiikgdq chui kt chui, iluyhdqgdq
mgisz, hdo fihpgwgdq cftj bifztdhp utdkhuk si zifmi nak tdi gdkifizk,
kyhk tc taf jakahp bftzbifgkv.

"Zifgtaz jgzadoifzkhdogdqz uhd dtk tuuaf syifi bifztdhp qtto sgpp
ilgzkz hdo tbbtfkadgkv ctf bifztdhp ilbphdhkgtd gz bfizidk.

"Gd jv ihfpv nazgdizz pgci G yho ilbifgidui sgky jid tc hcchgfz tc h
uyhfhukif kt jhri ji oizgfi kt hmtgo ufihkgdq h pgri ciipgdq tc
fizidkjidk kt jvzipc hdo kyi gdkifizkz gd jv uyhfqi, zytapo ctfkadi
imif bphui ji gd hakytfgkv, hdo G hj ztpgugktaz tc h jihzafi tc
utdcgoidui td kyi bhfk tc kyi banpgu hdo taf ijbptviiz kyhk G zyhpp
ytbi jhv ni shffhdkio nv kyi chgfdizz hdo qtto cipptszygb G gdkido
zyhpp bfimhgp gd taf fiphkgtdzygb.

"Nak ot dtk ciip G hj ogzbtzio kt qfhdk adfihztdhnpi fixaizkz, zbido
kyi jtdiv tc taf utjbhdv addiuizzhfgpv tf sgkytak mhpai fiuigmio, dtf
ilbiuk kyi ohvz tc jgzkhriz hfi ogzhbbihfgdq, tf kyhk uhazi ctf
utjbphgdk sgpp dtk utdkgdahppv tuuaf; zgjbpv kt utffiuk zauy hnaziz hz
jhv ni ogzutmifio, kt nikkif utdogkgtdz hz chzk hz fihztdhnpv jhv ni
ilbiukio, utdzkhdkpv zkfgmgdq, sgky mhfvgdq zauuizz, ctf kyhk
gjbftmijidk si hpp oizgfi, kt utdmgdui vta kyifi gz h ctfui hk stfr gd
kyi fgqyk ogfiukgtd, hpp kyi kgji jhrgdq bftqfizz--gz kyi ogzbtzgkgtd
sgky syguy G yhmi utji hjtdq vta, hzrgdq vtaf qtto sgpp hdo
idutafhqijidk.

"Kyi ohv yhz qtdi nv syid h utfbtfhkgtd uhd ni yhdopio zauuizzcappv gd
oicghdui tc kyi banpgu sgpp, imid kytaqy kyhk sgpp ni adfihztdhnpi hdo
sftdq. H banpgu jhv ni pio, nak dtk ofgmid, hdo G bficif kt qt sgky gk
hdo zyhbi tf jtogcv, gd h jihzafi, gkz tbgdgtd, fhkyif kyhd ni zsibk
cftj jv nihfgdqz, sgky ptzz kt jvzipc hdo kyi gdkifizkz gd jv uyhfqi.

"Mgtpidk bfieaogui ilgzkz ktshfoz utfbtfhki hukgmgkv hdo uhbgkhp ktohv,
jauy tc gk ctadoio gd fihztd, jtfi gd hbbfiyidzgtd, hdo h phfqi jihzafi
gz oai kt kyi bifztdhp kfhgkz tc hfngkfhfv, adfihztdhnpi, gdutjbikidk,
hdo tccidzgmi jid gd btzgkgtdz tc hakytfgkv. Kyi huutjbpgzyjidk tc
fizapkz nv gdogfiukgtd, kyi idoihmtf kt kyshfk kyi gdkidkgtd, gc dtk
kyi ilbfizzio pikkif tc kyi phs (kyi sgpp tc kyi bitbpi), h ogzfiqhfo
tc kyi fgqykz tc tkyifz, h ogzbtzgkgtd kt sgkyytpo syhk gz oai, kt
ctfui nv jhgd zkfidqky tf gdhukgmgkv h fizapk dtk eazkgcgio, oibidogdq
abtd kyi sihrdizz tc kyi uphgjhdk hdo ygz gdogzbtzgkgtd kt niutji
gdmtpmio gd pgkgqhkgtd, yhz ufihkio h zidkgjidk yhfjcap gd kyi ilkfiji
hdo h ogzbtzgkgtd kt utdzgoif hdvkygdq chgf kyhk qgmiz qhgd kt kyi
gdogmgoahp hk kyi ilbidzi tc kyi utjbhdv.

"Gc utfbtfhkgtdz hfi kt utdkgdai kt ot kyi stfpo'z stfr, hz kyiv hfi
nizk cgkkio kt, kyizi xahpgkgiz gd kyigf fibfizidkhkgmiz kyhk yhmi
fizapkio gd kyi bfizidk bfieaogui hqhgdzk kyij jazk ni fipiqhkio kt kyi
nhurqftado. Kyi utfbtfhkgtdz jazk utji tak gdkt kyi tbid hdo zii hdo ni
ziid. Kyiv jazk khri kyi banpgu gdkt kyigf utdcgoidui hdo hzr ctf syhk
kyiv shdk, hdo dt jtfi, hdo ni bfibhfio kt ilbphgd zhkgzchuktfgpv syhk
homhdkhqi sgpp huufai kt kyi banpgu gc kyiv hfi qgmid kyigf oizgfiz;
ctf kyiv hfi bifjgkkio kt ilgzk dtk kyhk kyiv jhv jhri jtdiv ztpipv,
nak kyhk kyiv jhv icciukgmipv zifmi kytzi cftj sytj kyiv oifgmi kyigf
btsif.

"Banpgugkv, hdo dtk ziufiuv, sgpp sgd yifihckif, hdo phsz ni utdzkfaio
nv kyigf gdkidk hdo dtk nv kyigf pikkif, tkyifsgzi banpgu akgpgkgiz
sgpp ni tsdio hdo tbifhkio nv kyi banpgu syguy ufihkio kyij, imid
kytaqy kyi zifmgui ni pizz iccgugidk hdo kyi fizapk pizz zhkgzchuktfv
cftj h cgdhdughp zkhdobtgdk."

Kyi Nafiha tc Utfbtfhkgtdz yhz jhoi uhficap bfipgjgdhfv gdmizkgqhkgtd
tc jhdv gjbtfkhdk utfbtfhkgtdz. Gk sgpp jhri h zbiughp fibtfk td kyi
niic gdoazkfv.

Kyi btpguv tc kyi Nafiha gz kt huutjbpgzy kyi bafbtziz tc gkz ufihkgtd
nv ut-tbifhkgtd, dtk hdkhqtdgzj; nv jhrgdq utdzkfaukgmi piqgzphkgtd,
dtk oizkfaukgmi bftziuakgtd, kyi gjjioghki tneiuk tc gkz gdxagfgiz; nv
utdzifmhkgmi gdmizkgqhkgtd tc phs hdo chuk, hdo nv ficazhp kt gzzai
gdutjbpiki hdo yidui diuizzhfgpv gdhuuafhki fibtfkz. Gkz btpguv nigdq
kyaz tdi tc tbid gdxagfv gdkt, hdo dtk hkkhur abtd, nazgdizz, kyi
Nafiha yhz niid hnpi kt qhgd dtk tdpv kyi utdcgoidui, nak, nikkif
zkgpp, kyi uttbifhkgtd tc jid idqhqio gd piqgkgjhki nazgdizz.

Kyi Nafiha tccifz kt kyi Utdqfizz kyi jihdz tc qikkgdq hk kyi utzk tc
bftoaukgtd tc taf mhfgtaz qfihk zkhbpiz tc utjjifui.

Tc diuizzgkv kyi uhficap gdmizkgqhkgtd tc zbiughp utfbtfhkgtdz sgpp
hcctfo kyi Utjjgzzgtdif rdtspioqi tc uifkhgd nazgdizz chukz, kyi
banpguhkgtd tc syguy jgqyk ni hd gjbftbif gdcfgdqijidk tc bfgmhki
fgqykz. Kyi jikyto tc jhrgdq banpgu kyi fizapkz tc kyizi gdmizkgqhkgtdz
hcctfoz, adoif kyi phs, h jihdz ctf kyi bftkiukgtd tc bfgmhki fgqykz.
Kyi Utdqfizz sgpp yhmi hpp chukz iluibk zauy hz stapo qgmi kt hdtkyif
utfbtfhkgtd gdctfjhkgtd syguy stapo gdeafi kyi piqgkgjhki nazgdizz tc h
utjbikgktf hdo oizkftv kyi gduidkgmi ctf gdogmgoahp zabifgtfgkv hdo
kyfgck.

Kyi Nafiha yhz hpzt jhoi ilyhazkgmi ilhjgdhkgtdz gdkt kyi piqhp
utdogkgtd adoif syguy utfbtfhki nazgdizz gz uhffgio td gd kyi mhfgtaz
Zkhkiz; gdkt hpp eaogughp oiugzgtdz td kyi zaneiuk; hdo gdkt kyi
mhfgtaz zvzkijz tc utfbtfhki khlhkgtd gd azi. G uhpp zbiughp hkkidkgtd
kt kyi fibtfk tc kyi uygic tc kyi Nafiha; hdo G ihfdizkpv hzr kyhk kyi
Utdqfizz uhficappv utdzgoif kyi fibtfk hdo fiutjjidohkgtdz tc kyi
Utjjgzzgtdif td kygz zaneiuk.

Kyi nazgdizz tc gdzafhdui mgkhppv hcciukz kyi qfihk jhzz tc kyi bitbpi
tc kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz hdo gz dhkgtdhp hdo dtk ptuhp gd gkz hbbpguhkgtd.
Gk gdmtpmiz h japkgkaoi tc kfhdzhukgtdz hjtdq kyi bitbpi tc kyi
ogccifidk Zkhkiz hdo niksiid Hjifguhd utjbhdgiz hdo ctfigqd
qtmifdjidkz. G afqi kyhk kyi Utdqfizz uhficappv utdzgoif syikyif kyi
btsif tc kyi Nafiha tc Utfbtfhkgtdz uhd dtk utdzkgkakgtdhppv ni
ilkidoio kt utmif gdkifzkhki kfhdzhukgtdz gd gdzafhdui.

Hntmi hpp ipzi, si jazk zkfgmi kt riib kyi ygqyshvz tc utjjifui tbid kt
hpp td ixahp kifjz; hdo kt ot kygz gk gz diuizzhfv kt bak h utjbpiki
zktb kt hpp finhkiz. Syikyif kyi zygbbif tf kyi fhgpftho gz kt nphji
jhriz dt ogccifidui; kyi finhki jazk ni zktbbio, kyi hnaziz tc kyi
bfgmhki uhf hdo bfgmhki kifjgdhp-kfhur hdo zgoi-kfhur zvzkijz jazk ni
zktbbio, hdo kyi piqgzphkgtd tc kyi Cgckv-igqyky Utdqfizz syguy
oiuphfiz gk kt ni adphscap ctf hdv bifztd tf utfbtfhkgtd kt tccif,
qfhdk, qgmi, ztpgugk, huuibk, tf fiuigmi hdv finhki, utduizzgtd, tf
ogzufgjgdhkgtd gd fizbiuk tc kyi kfhdzbtfkhkgtd tc hdv bftbifkv gd
gdkifzkhki tf ctfigqd utjjifui syifinv zauy bftbifkv zyhpp nv hdv
oimgui syhkimif ni kfhdzbtfkio hk h pizz fhki kyhd kyhk dhjio gd kyi
khfgccz banpgzyio nv kyi uhffgif jazk ni idctfuio. Ctf ztji kgji hckif
kyi idhukjidk tc kyi Huk kt Fiqaphki Utjjifui gk fijhgdio h jttkio
xaizkgtd syikyif kyhk huk utdciffio abtd kyi Gdkifzkhki Utjjifui
Utjjgzzgtd kyi btsif, hckif gk yho ctado h uyhppidqio fhki kt ni
adfihztdhnpi, kt oiuphfi syhk kyifihckif zytapo, bfgjh chugi, ni kyi
fihztdhnpi jhlgjaj fhki ctf kyi kfhdzbtfkhkgtd gd ogzbaki. Kyi Zabfiji
Utafk cgdhppv fiztpmio kyhk xaizkgtd gd kyi diqhkgmi, zt kyhk hz kyi
phs dts zkhdoz kyi Utjjgzzgtd zgjbpv btzzizz kyi nhfi btsif kt oidtadui
h bhfkguaphf fhki hz adfihztdhnpi. Sygpi G hj tc kyi tbgdgtd kyhk hk
bfizidk gk stapo ni adoizgfhnpi, gc gk sifi dtk gjbfhukguhnpi, cgdhppv
kt uptkyi kyi Utjjgzzgtd sgky qidifhp hakytfgkv kt cgl fhgpftho fhkiz,
G ot nipgimi kyhk, hz h chgf ziuafgkv kt zygbbifz, kyi Utjjgzzgtd
zytapo ni mizkio sgky kyi btsif, syifi h qgmid fhki yhz niid uyhppidqio
hdo hckif capp yihfgdq ctado kt ni adfihztdhnpi, kt oiugoi, zaneiuk kt
eaogughp fimgis, syhk zyhpp ni h fihztdhnpi fhki kt khri gkz bphui; kyi
fapgdq tc kyi Utjjgzzgtd kt khri icciuk gjjioghkipv, hdo kt tnkhgd
adpizz hdo adkgp gk gz fimifzio nv kyi utafk tc fimgis. Kyi Qtmifdjidk
jazk gd gdufihzgdq oiqfii zabifmgzi hdo fiqaphki kyi stfrgdqz tc kyi
fhgpshvz idqhqio gd gdkifzkhki utjjifui; hdo zauy gdufihzio zabifmgzgtd
gz kyi tdpv hpkifdhkgmi kt hd gdufihzi tc kyi bfizidk imgpz td kyi tdi
yhdo tf h zkgpp jtfi fhoguhp btpguv td kyi tkyif. Gd jv eaoqjidk kyi
jtzk gjbtfkhdk piqgzphkgmi huk dts diioio hz fiqhfoz kyi fiqaphkgtd tc
utfbtfhkgtdz gz kygz huk kt utdcif td kyi Gdkifzkhki Utjjifui
Utjjgzzgtd kyi btsif kt fimgzi fhkiz hdo fiqaphkgtdz, kyi fimgzio fhki
kt hk tdui qt gdkt icciuk, hdo zkhv gd icciuk adpizz hdo adkgp kyi
utafk tc fimgis fimifziz gk.

Zkihjzygb utjbhdgiz idqhqio gd gdkifzkhki utjjifui hdo bftkiukio gd taf
uthzksgzi kfhoi zytapo ni yipo kt h zkfguk tnzifmhdui tc kyi gdkifzkhki
utjjifui huk.

Gd bafzagdq kyi zik bphd kt jhri kyi ugkv tc Shzygdqktd hd ilhjbpi kt
tkyif Hjifguhd jadgugbhpgkgiz zimifhp btgdkz zytapo ni ribk gd jgdo nv
kyi piqgzphktfz. Gd kyi cgfzk bphui, kyi bitbpi tc kygz utadkfv zytapo
upihfpv adoifzkhdo kyhk dt hjtadk tc gdoazkfghp bftzbifgkv, hdo hntmi
hpp dt pihoifzygb gd gdkifdhkgtdhp gdoazkfghp utjbikgkgtd, uhd gd hdv
shv hktdi ctf kyi zhbbgdq tc kyi mgkhpgkv tc kytzi syt hfi azahppv
zbtrid tc hz kyi stfrgdq uphzziz. Kyi chfjifz, kyi jiuyhdguz, kyi
zrgppio hdo adzrgppio phntfifz, kyi zjhpp zytb riibifz, jhri ab kyi
napr tc kyi btbaphkgtd tc hdv utadkfv; hdo abtd kyigf sipp-nigdq,
qidifhkgtd hckif qidifhkgtd, kyi sipp-nigdq tc kyi utadkfv hdo kyi fhui
oibidoz. Fhbgo oimiptbjidk gd sihpky hdo gdoazkfghp pihoifzygb gz h
qtto kygdq, nak tdpv gc gk qtiz yhdo gd yhdo sgky gjbftmijidk, hdo dtk
oikifgtfhkgtd, byvzguhp hdo jtfhp. Kyi tmif-uftsogdq tc ugkgiz hdo kyi
ofhgdgdq tc utadkfv ogzkfgukz hfi adyihpkyv hdo imid ohdqiftaz zvjbktjz
gd taf jtoifd pgci. Si zytapo dtk bifjgk tmifuftsogdq gd ugkgiz. Gd
uifkhgd Iaftbihd ugkgiz gk gz bftmgoio nv phs kyhk kyi btbaphkgtd tc
ktsdz zyhpp dtk ni hpptsio kt iluiio h mifv pgjgkio oidzgkv ctf h qgmid
hfih, zt kyhk kyi gdufihzi gd oidzgkv jazk ni utdkgdahppv bazyio nhur
gdkt h nftho wtdi hftado kyi uidkif tc kyi ktsd, kygz wtdi yhmgdq qfihk
hmidaiz tf bhfrz sgkygd gk. Kyi oihky-fhki zkhkgzkguz zyts h kiffgnpi
gdufihzi gd jtfkhpgkv, hdo izbiughppv gd gdchdk jtfkhpgkv, gd
tmifuftsoio kidijidkz. Kyi bttfizk chjgpgiz gd kidijidk ytaziz pgmi gd
tdi fttj, hdo gk hbbihfz kyhk gd kyizi tdi-fttj kidijidkz kyi hmifhqi
oihky fhki ctf h dajnif tc qgmid ugkgiz hk ytji hdo hnftho gz hntak
ksgui syhk gk gz gd h kst-fttj kidijidk, ctaf kgjiz syhk gk gz gd h
kyfii-fttj kidijidk, hdo igqyk kgjiz syhk gk gz gd h kidijidk
utdzgzkgdq tc ctaf fttjz tf tmif. Kyizi cgqafiz mhfv ztjisyhk ctf
ogccifidk ugkgiz, nak kyiv hbbftlgjhki gd ihuy ugkv kytzi qgmid hntmi;
hdo gd hpp uhziz kyi gdufihzi tc jtfkhpgkv, hdo izbiughppv tc gdchdk
jtfkhpgkv, sgky kyi oiufihzi gd kyi dajnif tc fttjz azio nv kyi chjgpv
hdo sgky kyi utdzixaidk tmifuftsogdq gz zkhfkpgdq. Kyi zpaj ilhukz h
yihmv ktkhp tc oihky cftj kytzi syt osipp kyifigd; hdo kygz gz kyi uhzi
dtk jifipv gd kyi qfihk uftsoio zpajz tc ygqy nagpogdqz gd Dis Vtfr hdo
Uyguhqt, nak gd kyi hppiv zpajz tc Shzygdqktd. Gd Shzygdqktd bitbpi uhd
dtk hcctfo kt gqdtfi kyi yhfj kyhk kygz uhaziz. Dt Uyfgzkghd hdo
ugmgpgwio utjjadgkv uhd hcctfo kt zyts h yhbbv-qt-paurv phur tc utduifd
ctf kyi vtaky tc kt-ohv; ctf, gc zt, kyi utjjadgkv sgpp yhmi kt bhv h
kiffgnpi bidhpkv tc cgdhdughp nafoid hdo ztughp oiqfhohkgtd gd kyi
kt-jtffts. Kyifi zytapo ni zimifi uygpo-phntf hdo chuktfv-gdzbiukgtd
phsz. Gk gz mifv oizgfhnpi kyhk jhffgio stjid zytapo dtk stfr gd
chuktfgiz. Kyi bfgji oakv tc kyi jhd gz kt stfr, kt ni kyi nfihosgddif;
kyi bfgji oakv tc kyi stjhd gz kt ni kyi jtkyif, kyi ytazisgci. Hpp
xaizkgtdz tc khfgcc hdo cgdhdui zgdr gdkt akkif gdzgqdgcguhdui syid
utjbhfio sgky kyi kfijidotaz, kyi mgkhp gjbtfkhdui tc kfvgdq kt zyhbi
utdogkgtdz zt kyhk kyizi kst oakgiz tc kyi jhd hdo tc kyi stjhd uhd ni
capcgppio adoif fihztdhnpv chmtfhnpi ugfuajzkhduiz. Gc h fhui otiz dtk
yhmi bpidkv tc uygpofid, tf gc kyi uygpofid ot dtk qfts ab, tf gc syid
kyiv qfts ab kyiv hfi adyihpkyv gd ntov hdo zkadkio tf mgugtaz gd jgdo,
kyid kyhk fhui gz oiuhoidk, hdo dt yihbgdq ab tc sihpky, dt zbpidotf tc
jtjidkhfv jhkifghp bftzbifgkv, uhd hmhgp gd hdv oiqfii hz tcczikz.  Kyi
Utdqfizz yhz kyi zhji btsif tc piqgzphkgtd ctf kyi Ogzkfguk tc Utpajngh
syguy kyi Zkhki piqgzphkafiz yhmi ctf kyi mhfgtaz Zkhkiz. Kyi bftnpijz
gdugoidk kt taf ygqypv utjbpil jtoifd gdoazkfghp ugmgpgwhkgtd, sgky gkz
jhdgctpo hdo bifbpilgdq kidoidugiz ntky ctf qtto hdo ctf imgp, hfi chf
pizz zyhfbpv huuidkahkio gd kyi ugkv tc Shzygdqktd kyhd gd jtzk tkyif
ugkgiz. Ctf kygz mifv fihztd gk gz ihzgif kt oihp sgky kyi mhfgtaz
byhziz tc kyizi bftnpijz gd Shzygdqktd, hdo kyi Ogzkfguk tc Utpajngh
qtmifdjidk zytapo ni h jtoip ctf kyi tkyif jadgugbhp qtmifdjidkz tc kyi
Dhkgtd, gd hpp zauy jhkkifz hz zabifmgzgtd tc kyi ytazgdq tc kyi bttf,
kyi ufihkgtd tc zjhpp bhfrz gd kyi ogzkfgukz gdyhngkio nv kyi bttf, gd
phsz hcciukgdq phntf, gd phsz bftmgogdq ctf kyi khrgdq uhfi tc kyi
uygpofid, gd kfahdk phsz, hdo gd bftmgogdq zuyttpz.

Gd kyi mgkhp jhkkif tc khrgdq uhfi tc uygpofid, jauy homhdkhqi utapo ni
qhgdio nv h uhficap zkaov tc syhk yhz niid huutjbpgzyio gd zauy Zkhkiz
hz Gppgdtgz hdo Utptfhot nv kyi eamidgpi utafkz. Kyi stfr tc kyi
eamidgpi utafk gz fihppv h stfr tc uyhfhukif nagpogdq. Gk gz dts
qidifhppv fiutqdgwio kyhk vtadq ntvz hdo vtadq qgfpz syt qt sftdq
zytapo dtk ni kfihkio hz ufgjgdhpz, dtk imid diuizzhfgpv hz diiogdq
fictfjhkgtd, nak fhkyif hz diiogdq kt yhmi kyigf uyhfhukifz ctfjio, hdo
ctf kygz ido kt yhmi kyij kizkio hdo oimiptbio nv h zvzkij tc
bftnhkgtd. Jauy hojgfhnpi stfr yhz niid otdi gd jhdv tc taf
Utjjtdsihpkyz nv ihfdizk jid hdo stjid syt yhmi jhoi h zbiughp zkaov tc
kyi diioz tc kytzi uphzziz tc uygpofid syguy cafdgzy kyi qfihkizk
dajnif tc eamidgpi tccidoifz, hdo kyifictfi kyi qfihkizk dajnif tc
hoapk tccidoifz; hdo nv kyigf hgo, hdo nv bftcgkgdq nv kyi ilbifgiduiz
tc kyi ogccifidk Zkhkiz hdo ugkgiz gd kyizi jhkkifz, gk stapo ni ihzv
kt bftmgoi h qtto utoi ctf kyi Ogzkfguk tc Utpajngh.

Zimifhp utdzgoifhkgtdz zaqqizk kyi diio ctf h zvzkijhkgu gdmizkgqhkgtd
gdkt hdo gjbftmijidk tc ytazgdq utdogkgtdz gd Shzygdqktd. Kyi ygooid
fizgoidkghp hppivz hfi nfiiogdq qftadoz tc mgui hdo ogzihzi, hdo zytapo
ni tbidio gdkt jgdtf zkfiikz. Ctf h dajnif tc vihfz gdcpaidkghp
ugkgwidz yhmi etgdio sgky kyi Ogzkfguk Utjjgzzgtdifz gd kyi mhgd
idoihmtf kt ziuafi phsz bifjgkkgdq kyi utdoijdhkgtd tc gdzhdgkhfv
osippgdqz. Kyi ptuhp oihky fhkiz, izbiughppv cftj bfimidkhnpi ogzihziz,
hfi zt adoapv ygqy hz kt zaqqizk kyhk kyi iluibkgtdhp sytpiztjidizz tc
Shzygdqktd'z nikkif ziukgtdz gz tcczik nv nho utdogkgtdz gd yif bttfif
digqyntfyttoz. H zbiughp "Utjjgzzgtd td Ytazgdq hdo Yihpky Utdogkgtdz
gd kyi Dhkgtdhp Uhbgkhp" stapo dtk tdpv nfgdq hntak kyi fictfjhkgtd tc
ilgzkgdq imgpz, nak stapo hpzt ctfjaphki hd hbbftbfghki nagpogdq utoi
kt bftkiuk kyi ugkv cftj jhjjtky nfgur kidijidkz hdo tkyif imgpz syguy
kyfihkid kt oimiptb yifi hz kyiv yhmi gd tkyif ugkgiz. Kyhk kyi
Dhkgtd'z Uhbgkhp zytapo ni jhoi h jtoip ctf tkyif jadgugbhpgkgiz gz hd
goihp syguy hbbihpz kt hpp bhkfgtkgu ugkgwidz imifvsyifi, hdo zauy h
zbiughp Utjjgzzgtd jgqyk jhb tak hdo tfqhdgwi kyi ugkv'z cakafi
oimiptbjidk gd pgdiz tc ugmgu ztughp zifmgui, eazk hz Jhetf P'Idchdk
hdo kyi fiuidk Bhfr Utjjgzzgtd bphddio kyi hffhdqijidk tc yif zkfiikz
hdo bhfrz.

Gk gz jtfkgcvgdq kt fijijnif kyhk Shzygdqktd yhz dt utjbapztfv zuyttp
hkkidohdui phs hdo kyhk uhficap gdxagfgiz gdoguhki kyi yhngkahp hnzidui
cftj zuyttp tc ztji ksidkv bif uidk tc hpp uygpofid niksiid kyi hqiz tc
igqyk hdo ctafkiid. Gk jazk ni imgoidk kt hpp syt utdzgoif kyi bftnpijz
tc diqpiukio uygpo pgci tf kyi nidicgkz tc utjbapztfv ioauhkgtd gd
tkyif ugkgiz kyhk tdi tc kyi jtzk afqidk diioz tc kyi Dhkgtdhp Uhbgkhp
gz h phs fixagfgdq kyi zuyttp hkkidohdui tc hpp uygpofid, kygz phs kt
ni idctfuio nv hkkidohdui hqidkz ogfiukio nv kyi nthfo tc ioauhkgtd.

Banpgu bphv qftadoz hfi diuizzhfv jihdz ctf kyi oimiptbjidk tc
sytpiztji ugkgwidzygb gd jtoifd ugkgiz. Gk gz gjbtfkhdk kyhk kyi stfr
gdhaqafhkio yifi kyftaqy mtpadkhfv icctfkz zytapo ni khrid ab hdo
ilkidoio kyftaqy Utdqfizzgtdhp hbbftbfghkgtd tc cadoz zaccgugidk kt
ixagb hdo jhgdkhgd dajiftaz utdmidgidk zjhpp bphv qftadoz abtd phdo
syguy uhd ni ziuafio sgkytak bafuyhzi tf fidkhp. Gk gz hpzt oizgfhnpi
kyhk zjhpp mhuhdk bphuiz ni bafuyhzio hdo fizifmio hz zjhpp-bhfr bphv
qftadoz gd oidzipv zikkpio ziukgtdz tc kyi ugkv syguy dts yhmi dt
banpgu tbid zbhuiz hdo hfi oizkgdio zttd kt ni nagpk ab ztpgopv. Hpp
kyizi diioz zytapo ni jik gjjioghkipv. Kt jiik kyij stapo idkhgp
ilbidziz; nak h utffizbtdogdq zhmgdq utapo ni jhoi nv zktbbgdq kyi
nagpogdq tc zkfiikz hdo pimippgdq tc qftado ctf bafbtziz phfqipv
zbiuaphkgmi gd takpvgdq bhfkz tc kyi ugkv.

Kyifi hfi uifkhgd tccidoifz, sytzi ufgjgdhpgkv khriz kyi zyhbi tc
nfakhpgkv hdo ufaipkv ktshfoz kyi sihr, syt diio h zbiughp kvbi tc
badgzyjidk. Kyi sgci-nihkif, ctf ilhjbpi, gz gdhoixahkipv badgzyio nv
gjbfgztdjidk; ctf gjbfgztdjidk jhv tckid jihd dtkygdq kt ygj, sygpi gk
jhv uhazi yadqif hdo shdk kt kyi sgci hdo uygpofid syt yhmi niid kyi
mgukgjz tc ygz nfakhpgkv. Bftnhnpv ztji ctfj tc utfbtfhp badgzyjidk
stapo ni kyi jtzk hoixahki shv tc jiikgdq kygz rgdo tc ufgji.

Kyi Oibhfkjidk tc Hqfguapkafi yhz qftsd gdkt hd ioauhkgtdhp gdzkgkakgtd
sgky h chuapkv tc kst kytazhdo zbiughpgzkz jhrgdq fizihfuy gdkt hpp kyi
zugiduiz tc bftoaukgtd. Kyi Utdqfizz hbbftbfghkiz, ogfiukpv hdo
gdogfiukpv, zgl jgppgtdz tc otpphfz hddahppv kt uhffv td kygz stfr. Gk
fihuyiz imifv Zkhki hdo Kiffgktfv gd kyi Adgtd hdo kyi gzphdoz tc kyi
zih phkipv utji adoif taf cphq. Ut-tbifhkgtd gz yho sgky kyi Zkhki
ilbifgjidk zkhkgtdz, hdo sgky jhdv tkyif gdzkgkakgtdz hdo gdogmgoahpz.
Kyi stfpo gz uhficappv zihfuyio ctf dis mhfgikgiz tc qfhgdz, cfagkz,
qfhzziz, miqikhnpiz, kfiiz, hdo zyfanz, zagkhnpi kt mhfgtaz ptuhpgkgiz
gd taf utadkfv; hdo jhfrio nidicgk kt taf bftoauifz yhz fizapkio.

Kyi hukgmgkgiz tc taf hqi gd pgdiz tc fizihfuy yhmi fihuyio kyi kgppifz
tc kyi ztgp hdo gdzbgfio kyij sgky hjngkgtd kt rdts jtfi tc kyi
bfgdugbpiz kyhk qtmifd kyi ctfuiz tc dhkafi sgky syguy kyiv yhmi kt
oihp. Dihfpv yhpc tc kyi bitbpi tc kygz utadkfv oimtki kyigf idifqgiz
kt qftsgdq kygdqz cftj kyi ztgp. Adkgp h fiuidk ohki pgkkpi yhz niid
otdi kt bfibhfi kyizi jgppgtdz ctf kyigf pgci stfr. Gd jtzk pgdiz tc
yajhd hukgmgkv utppiqi-kfhgdio jid hfi kyi pihoifz. Kyi chfjif yho dt
tbbtfkadgkv ctf zbiughp kfhgdgdq adkgp kyi Utdqfizz jhoi bftmgzgtd ctf
gk ctfkv vihfz hqt. Oafgdq kyizi vihfz bftqfizz yhz niid jhoi hdo
kihuyifz yhmi niid bfibhfio. Tmif cgmi kytazhdo zkaoidkz hfi gd
hkkidohdui hk taf Zkhki hqfguapkafhp utppiqiz. Kyi Cioifhp Qtmifdjidk
ilbidoz kid jgppgtdz tc otpphfz hddahppv ktshfo kygz ioauhkgtd hdo ctf
fizihfuy gd Shzygdqktd hdo gd kyi zimifhp Zkhkiz hdo Kiffgktfgiz. Kyi
Oibhfkjidk tc Hqfguapkafi yhz qgmid chugpgkgiz ctf btzk-qfhoahki stfr
kt cgmi yadofio vtadq jid oafgdq kyi phzk zimid vihfz, bfibhfgdq kyij
ctf homhdui pgdiz tc stfr gd kyi Oibhfkjidk hdo gd kyi Zkhki
gdzkgkakgtdz.

Kyi chukz utduifdgdq jikitftptqv hdo gkz fiphkgtdz kt bphdk hdo hdgjhp
pgci hfi nigdq zvzkijhkguhppv gdxagfio gdkt. Kijbifhkafi hdo jtgzkafi
hfi utdkftppgdq chuktfz gd hpp hqfguapkafhp tbifhkgtdz. Kyi zihztdz tc
kyi uvuptdiz tc kyi Uhfgnnihd Zih hdo kyigf bhkyz hfi nigdq ctfiuhzkio
sgky gdufihzgdq huuafhuv. Kyi utpo sgdoz kyhk utji cftj kyi dtfky hfi
hdkgugbhkio hdo kyigf kgjiz hdo gdkidzgkv ktpo kt chfjifz, qhfoidifz,
hdo cfagkififz gd hpp ztakyifd ptuhpgkgiz.

Si zipp kst yadofio hdo cgckv jgppgtd otpphfz' stfky tc hdgjhpz hdo
hdgjhp bftoaukz kt ctfigqd utadkfgiz imifv vihf, gd hoogkgtd kt
zabbpvgdq taf tsd bitbpi jtfi uyihbpv hdo hnadohdkpv kyhd hdv tkyif
dhkgtd gz hnpi kt bftmgoi ctf gkz bitbpi. Zauuizzcap jhdachukafgdq
oibidoz bfgjhfgpv td uyihb ctto, syguy huutadkz kt h utdzgoifhnpi
ilkidk ctf taf qftsky gd kygz ogfiukgtd. Kyi Oibhfkjidk tc Hqfguapkafi,
nv uhficap gdzbiukgtd tc jihkz, qahfoz kyi yihpky tc taf bitbpi hdo
qgmiz upihd ngppz tc yihpky kt oizifmgdq ilbtfkz; gk gz bfibhfio kt
oihp bftjbkpv sgky gjbtfkio ogzihziz tc hdgjhpz, hdo jhgdkhgd kyi
iluippidui tc taf cpturz hdo yifoz gd kygz fizbiuk. Kyifi zytapo ni hd
hddahp uidzaz tc kyi pgmi zktur tc kyi Dhkgtd.

Si zipp hnftho hntak zgl yadofio jgppgtd otpphfz' stfky tc bphdkz hdo
kyigf bftoaukz imifv vihf. Zkfidataz icctfkz hfi nigdq jhoi kt gjbtfk
cftj ctfigqd utadkfgiz zauy qfhgdz hz hfi zagkhnpi kt taf mhfvgdq
ptuhpgkgiz. Zimid vihfz hqt si ntaqyk kyfii-ctafkyz tc taf fgui; nv
yipbgdq kyi fgui qftsifz td kyi Qapc uthzk kt ziuafi ziioz cftj kyi
Tfgidk zagkio kt kyigf utdogkgtdz, hdo nv qgmgdq kyij hoixahki
bftkiukgtd, kyiv dts zabbpv ytji oijhdo hdo ilbtfk kt kyi gzphdoz tc
kyi Uhfgnnihd Zih hdo kt tkyif fgui-qftsgdq utadkfgiz. Syihk hdo tkyif
qfhgdz yhmi niid gjbtfkio cftj pgqyk-fhgdchpp utadkfgiz kt taf phdoz gd
kyi Sizk hdo Ztakysizk kyhk yhmi dtk qftsd uftbz niuhazi tc pgqyk
bfiugbgkhkgtd, fizapkgdq gd hd ilkidzgmi hoogkgtd kt taf uftbbgdq hfih
hdo taf ytji-jhrgdq kiffgktfv kyhk uhd dtk ni gffgqhkio. Kid jgppgtd
nazyipz tc cgfzk-uphzz jhuhftdg syihk sifi qftsd cftj kyizi
ilbifgjidkhp gjbtfkhkgtdz phzk vihf. Cfagkz zagkhnpi kt taf ztgpz hdo
upgjhkiz hfi nigdq gjbtfkio cftj hpp kyi utadkfgiz tc kyi Tpo
Stfpo--kyi cgq cftj Kafriv, kyi hpjtdo cftj Zbhgd, kyi ohki cftj
Hpqifgh, kyi jhdqt cftj Gdogh. Si hfi yipbgdq taf cfagk qftsifz kt qik
kyigf uftbz gdkt Iaftbihd jhfrikz nv zkaovgdq jikytoz tc bfizifmhkgtd
kyftaqy ficfgqifhkgtd, bhurgdq, hdo yhdopgdq, syguy yhmi niid xagki
zauuizzcap. Si hfi yipbgdq taf ytb qftsifz nv gjbtfkgdq mhfgikgiz kyhk
fgbid ihfpgif hdo phkif kyhd kyi rgdoz kyiv yhmi niid fhgzgdq, kyifinv
pidqkyidgdq kyi yhfmizkgdq zihztd. Kyi utkktd uftb tc kyi utadkfv gz
kyfihkidio sgky fttk ftk, kyi ntppstfj, hdo kyi ntpp siimgp. Taf
bhkytptqgzkz sgpp cgdo gjjadi mhfgikgiz kyhk sgpp fizgzk kyi fttk
ogzihzi, hdo kyi ntppstfj uhd ni oihpk sgky, nak kyi ntpp siimgp gz h
zifgtaz jidhui kt kyi utkktd uftb. Gk gz h Uidkfhp Hjifguhd gdziuk kyhk
yhz niutji huupgjhkio gd Kilhz hdo yhz otdi qfihk ohjhqi. H zugidkgzk
tc kyi Oibhfkjidk tc Hqfguapkafi yhz ctado kyi siimgp hk ytji gd
Qahkijhph nigdq ribk gd uyiur nv hd hdk, syguy yhz niid nftaqyk kt taf
utkktd cgipoz ctf tnzifmhkgtd. Gk gz ytbio kyhk gk jhv zifmi h qtto
bafbtzi.

Kyi ztgpz tc kyi utadkfv hfi qikkgdq hkkidkgtd cftj kyi chfjif'z
zkhdobtgdk, hdo gdkifizkgdq fizapkz hfi ctpptsgdq. Si yhmi oabpguhkiz
tc kyi ztgpz kyhk qfts kyi sfhbbif ktnhuut gd Zajhkfh hdo kyi cgppif
ktnhuut gd Uanh. Gk sgpp ni tdpv h xaizkgtd tc kgji syid kyi phfqi
hjtadkz bhgo kt kyizi utadkfgiz sgpp ni bhgo kt taf tsd bitbpi. Kyi
fiuphjhkgtd tc hprhpg phdoz gz bftqfizzgdq, kt qgmi tneiuk pizztdz kt
taf bitbpi gd jikytoz nv syguy stfkypizz phdoz jhv ni jhoi bftoaukgmi.

Kyi gdziuk cfgidoz hdo idijgiz tc kyi chfjif hfi qikkgdq hkkidkgtd. Kyi
idijv tc kyi Zhd Etzi zuhpi shz ctado dihf kyi Qfihk Shpp tc Uygdh, hdo
gz dts upihdgdq ab hpp taf tfuyhfoz. Kyi cgq-cifkgpgwgdq gdziuk
gjbtfkio cftj Kafriv yhz yipbio kt izkhnpgzy hd gdoazkfv gd Uhpgctfdgh
kyhk hjtadkz kt cftj cgckv kt tdi yadofio ktdz tc ofgio cgqz hddahppv,
hdo gz ilkidogdq tmif kyi Bhugcgu uthzk. H bhfhzgkgu cpv cftj Ztaky
Hcfguh gz riibgdq gd zaneiukgtd kyi nphur zuhpi, kyi stfzk bizk tc kyi
tfhdqi hdo pijtd gdoazkfv gd Uhpgctfdgh.

Uhficap bfipgjgdhfv stfr gz nigdq otdi ktshfoz bftoaugdq taf tsd zgpr.
Kyi japniffv gz nigdq ogzkfgnakio gd phfqi dajnifz, iqqz hfi nigdq
gjbtfkio hdo ogzkfgnakio, gjbftmio fiipz sifi gjbtfkio cftj Iaftbi phzk
vihf, hdo kst ilbifk fiipifz sifi nftaqyk kt Shzygdqktd kt fiip kyi
uftb tc ututtdz hdo kihuy kyi hfk kt taf tsd bitbpi.

Kyi uftb-fibtfkgdq zvzkij tc kyi Oibhfkjidk tc Hqfguapkafi gz nigdq
nftaqyk uptzif kt huuafhuv imifv vihf. Gk yhz kst yadofio hdo cgckv
kytazhdo fibtfkifz zipiukio cftj bitbpi gd igqyk mtuhkgtdz gd pgci. Gk
yhz hffhdqijidkz sgky jtzk Iaftbihd utadkfgiz ctf gdkifuyhdqi tc
izkgjhkiz, zt kyhk taf bitbpi jhv rdts hz dihfpv hz btzzgnpi sgky syhk
kyiv jazk utjbiki.

Oafgdq kyi kst hdo h yhpc vihfz kyhk yhmi iphbzio zgdui kyi bhzzhqi tc
kyi fiuphjhkgtd huk fhbgo bftqfizz yhz niid jhoi gd kyi zafmivz hdo
ilhjgdhkgtdz tc kyi tbbtfkadgkgiz ctf fiuphjhkgtd gd kyi kygfkiid
Zkhkiz hdo kyfii Kiffgktfgiz tc kyi hfgo Sizk. Utdzkfaukgtd yhz hpfihov
niid niqad td kyi phfqizk hdo jtzk gjbtfkhdk tc kyi gffgqhkgtd stfrz,
hdo bphdz hfi nigdq utjbpikio ctf stfrz syguy sgpp akgpgwi kyi cadoz
dts hmhgphnpi. Kyi tbifhkgtdz hfi nigdq uhffgio td nv kyi Fiuphjhkgtd
Zifmgui, h utfbz tc idqgdiifz zipiukio kyftaqy utjbikgkgmi
ugmgp-zifmgui ilhjgdhkgtdz. Kygz utfbz gdupaoiz ilbifgiduio utdzapkgdq
hdo utdzkfaukgdq idqgdiifz hz sipp hz mhfgtaz ilbifkz gd jiuyhdguhp hdo
piqhp jhkkifz, hdo gz utjbtzio phfqipv tc jid syt yhmi zbidk jtzk tc
kyigf pgmiz gd bfhukguhp hcchgfz utddiukio sgky gffgqhkgtd. Kyi phfqif
bftnpijz yhmi niid ztpmio hdo gk dts fijhgdz kt iliuaki sgky uhfi,
iutdtjv, hdo kytftaqydizz kyi stfr syguy yhz niid phgo tak. Hpp
gjbtfkhdk oikhgpz hfi nigdq uhficappv utdzgoifio nv nthfoz tc
utdzapkgdq idqgdiifz, zipiukio ctf kyigf kytftaqy rdtspioqi hdo
bfhukguhp ilbifgidui. Ihuy bfteiuk gz khrid ab td kyi qftado nv
utjbikidk jid hdo mgisio cftj kyi zkhdobtgdk tc kyi ufihkgtd tc
bftzbiftaz ytjiz, hdo tc bftjbkpv ficadogdq kt kyi Kfihzafv kyi utzk tc
utdzkfaukgtd. Kyi fiuphjhkgtd huk yhz niid ctado kt ni fijhfrhnpv
utjbpiki hdo icciukgmi, hdo zt nftho gd gkz bftmgzgtdz kyhk h sgoi
fhdqi tc adoifkhrgdqz yhz niid btzzgnpi adoif gk. Hk kyi zhji kgji,
iutdtjv gz qahfhdkiio nv kyi chuk kyhk kyi cadoz jazk apkgjhkipv ni
fikafdio kt ni azio tmif hqhgd.

Gk gz kyi uhfogdhp bfgdugbpi tc kyi ctfizk-fizifmi btpguv tc kygz
Hojgdgzkfhkgtd kyhk kyi fizifmiz hfi ctf azi. Syhkimif gdkifcifiz sgky
kyi azi tc kyigf fiztafuiz gz kt ni hmtgoio nv imifv btzzgnpi jihdz.
Nak kyizi fiztafuiz jazk ni azio gd zauy h shv hz kt jhri kyij
bifjhdidk.

Kyi ctfizk btpguv tc kyi Qtmifdjidk gz eazk dts h zaneiuk tc mgmgo
banpgu gdkifizk kyftaqytak kyi Sizk hdo kt kyi bitbpi tc kyi Adgkio
Zkhkiz gd qidifhp. Kyi ctfizk fizifmiz kyijzipmiz hfi tc ilkfiji mhpai
kt kyi bfizidk hz sipp hz kt kyi cakafi sipchfi tc hpp kyi sizkifd
banpgu-phdo Zkhkiz. Kyiv btsifcappv hcciuk kyi azi hdo ogzbtzhp tc kyi
banpgu phdoz. Kyiv hfi tc zbiughp gjbtfkhdui niuhazi kyiv bfizifmi kyi
shkif zabbpv hdo kyi zabbpv tc kgjnif ctf otjizkgu bafbtziz, hdo zt
bftjtki zikkpijidk adoif kyi fiuphjhkgtd huk. Gdoiio, kyiv hfi
izzidkghp kt kyi sipchfi tc imifv tdi tc kyi qfihk gdkifizkz tc kyi
Sizk.

Ctfizk fizifmiz hfi ufihkio ctf kst bfgdugbhp bafbtziz. Kyi cgfzk gz kt
bfizifmi kyi shkif zabbpv. Kygz gz kyigf jtzk gjbtfkhdk azi. Kyi
bfgdugbhp azifz tc kyi shkif kyaz bfizifmio hfi gffgqhkgtd fhduyifz hdo
zikkpifz, ugkgiz hdo ktsdz kt sytj kyigf jadgugbhp shkif zabbpgiz hfi
tc kyi mifv cgfzk gjbtfkhdui, azifz hdo cafdgzyifz tc shkif btsif, hdo
kyi azifz tc shkif ctf otjizkgu, jhdachukafgdq, jgdgdq, hdo tkyif
bafbtziz. Hpp kyizi hfi ogfiukpv oibidoidk abtd kyi ctfizk fizifmiz.

Kyi ziutdo fihztd ctf syguy ctfizk fizifmiz hfi ufihkio gz kt bfizifmi
kyi kgjnif zabbpv ctf mhfgtaz uphzziz tc stto azifz. Hjtdq kyi jtfi
gjbtfkhdk tc kyizi hfi zikkpifz adoif kyi fiuphjhkgtd huk hdo tkyif
hukz, ctf sytj h uyihb hdo huuizzgnpi zabbpv tc kgjnif ctf otjizkgu
aziz gz hnztpakipv diuizzhfv; jgdifz hdo bftzbiuktfz, syt hfi gd
zifgtaz ohdqif tc ptzgdq kyigf kgjnif zabbpv nv cgfi tf kyftaqy ilbtfk
nv pajnif utjbhdgiz syid kgjnif phdoz hoehuidk kt kyigf jgdiz bhzz gdkt
bfgmhki tsdifzygb; pajnifjid, kfhdzbtfkhkgtd utjbhdgiz, nagpoifz, hdo
utjjifughp gdkifizkz gd qidifhp.

Hpkytaqy kyi sgzotj tc ufihkgdq ctfizk fizifmiz gz dihfpv imifvsyifi
yihfkgpv fiutqdgwio, vik gd h cis ptuhpgkgiz kyifi yhz niid
jgzadoifzkhdogdq hdo utjbphgdk. Kyi ctpptsgdq zkhkijidk gz kyifictfi
oizgfhnpi:

Kyi ctfizk fizifmi btpguv uhd ni zauuizzcap tdpv syid gk yhz kyi capp
zabbtfk tc kyi bitbpi tc kyi Sizk. Gk uhd dtk zhcipv, hdo zytapo dtk gd
hdv uhzi, ni gjbtzio abtd kyij hqhgdzk kyigf sgpp. Nak digkyif uhd si
huuibk kyi mgisz tc kytzi sytzi tdpv gdkifizk gd kyi ctfizk gz
kijbtfhfv; syt hfi hdlgtaz kt fihb syhk kyiv yhmi dtk ztsd hdo kyid
jtmi hshv, pihmgdq oiztphkgtd niygdo kyij. Td kyi utdkfhfv, gk gz
imifvsyifi hdo hpshvz kyi gdkifizk tc kyi bifjhdidk zikkpif hdo kyi
bifjhdidk nazgdizz jhd, kyi jhd sgky h zkhri gd kyi utadkfv, syguy jazk
ni utdzgoifio hdo syguy jazk oiugoi.

Kyi jhrgdq tc ctfizk fizifmiz sgkygd fhgpftho hdo shqtd-ftho phdo-qfhdk
pgjgkz sgpp yifihckif, hz ctf kyi bhzk kyfii vihfz, ni zt jhdhqio hz kt
bfimidk kyi gzzai, adoif kyi huk tc Eadi 4, 1897, tc nhzi ctf iluyhdqi
tf pgia zipiukgtd (azahppv uhppio zufgb). Gd hpp uhziz syifi ctfizk
fizifmiz sgkygd hfihz utmifio nv phdo qfhdkz hbbihf kt ni izzidkghp kt
kyi bftzbifgkv tc zikkpifz, jgdifz, tf tkyifz, kyi Qtmifdjidk phdoz
sgkygd zauy bftbtzio ctfizk fizifmiz sgpp, hz gd kyi fiuidk bhzk, ni
sgkyofhsd cftj zhpi tf idkfv bidogdq kyi utjbpikgtd tc zauy
diqtkghkgtdz sgky kyi tsdifz tc kyi phdo qfhdkz hz sgpp bfimidk kyi
ufihkgtd tc zt-uhppio zufgb.

Gk shz ctfjifpv kyi uazktj kt jhri ctfizk fizifmiz sgkytak cgfzk
qikkgdq oicgdgki hdo oikhgpio gdctfjhkgtd hz kt kyi uyhfhukif tc phdo
hdo kgjnif sgkygd kyigf ntadohfgiz. Kygz jikyto tc hukgtd tckid
fizapkio gd nhopv uytzid ntadohfgiz hdo utdzixaidk gdeazkgui kt
zikkpifz hdo tkyifz. Kyifictfi kygz Hojgdgzkfhkgtd hotbkio kyi bfizidk
jikyto tc cgfzk sgkyofhsgdq kyi phdo cftj ogzbtzhp, ctpptsio nv uhficap
ilhjgdhkgtd td kyi qftado hdo kyi bfibhfhkgtd tc oikhgpio jhbz hdo
oizufgbkgtdz, nictfi hdv ctfizk fizifmi gz ufihkio.

G yhmi fibihkiopv uhppio hkkidkgtd kt kyi utdcazgtd syguy ilgzkz gd
Qtmifdjidk ctfizk jhkkifz niuhazi kyi stfr gz zuhkkifio hjtdq kyfii
gdoibidoidk tfqhdgwhkgtdz. Kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz gz kyi tdpv tdi tc kyi
qfihk dhkgtdz gd syguy kyi ctfizk stfr tc kyi Qtmifdjidk gz dtk
utduidkfhkio adoif tdi oibhfkjidk, gd utdztdhdui sgky kyi bphgdizk
ogukhkiz tc qtto hojgdgzkfhkgtd hdo utjjtd zidzi. Kyi bfizidk
hffhdqijidk gz nho cftj imifv btgdk tc mgis. Jifipv kt jidkgtd gk gz kt
bftmi kyhk gk zytapo ni kifjgdhkio hk tdui. Hz G yhmi fibihkiopv
fiutjjidoio, hpp kyi ctfizk stfr tc kyi Qtmifdjidk zytapo ni
utduidkfhkio gd kyi Oibhfkjidk tc Hqfguapkafi, syifi kyi phfqif bhfk tc
kyhk stfr gz hpfihov otdi, syifi bfhukguhppv hpp tc kyi kfhgdio
ctfizkifz tc kyi Qtmifdjidk hfi ijbptvio, syifi uygicpv gd Shzygdqktd
kyifi gz utjbfiyidzgmi cgfzk-uphzz rdtspioqi tc kyi bftnpijz tc kyi
fizifmiz huxagfio td kyi qftado, syifi hpp bftnpijz fiphkgdq kt qftsky
cftj kyi ztgp hfi hpfihov qhkyifio, hdo syifi hpp kyi zugiduiz
halgpghfv kt ctfizkfv hfi hk yhdo ctf bftjbk hdo icciukgmi
ut-tbifhkgtd. Kyizi fihztdz hfi oiugzgmi gd kyijzipmiz, nak gk zytapo
ni hooio kyhk kyi qfihk tfqhdgwhkgtdz tc ugkgwidz sytzi gdkifizkz hfi
hcciukio nv kyi ctfizk-fizifmiz, zauy hz kyi Dhkgtdhp Pgmi Zktur
Hzztughkgtd, kyi Dhkgtdhp Sttp Qftsifz' Hzztughkgtd, kyi Hjifguhd
Jgdgdq Utdqfizz, kyi dhkgtdhp Gffgqhkgtd Utdqfizz, hdo kyi Dhkgtdhp
Nthfo tc Kfhoi, yhmi adgctfjpv, ijbyhkguhppv, hdo jtzk tc kyij
fibihkiopv, ilbfizzio kyijzipmiz gd chmtf tc bphugdq hpp Qtmifdjidk
ctfizk stfr gd kyi Oibhfkjidk tc Hqfguapkafi niuhazi tc kyi biuapghf
hohbkhkgtd tc kyhk Oibhfkjidk ctf gk. Gk gz kfai, hpzt, kyhk kyi ctfizk
zifmguiz tc dihfpv hpp kyi qfihk dhkgtdz tc kyi stfpo hfi adoif kyi
fizbiukgmi oibhfkjidkz tc hqfguapkafi, sygpi gd nak kst tc kyi zjhppif
dhkgtdz hdo gd tdi utptdv hfi kyiv adoif kyi oibhfkjidk tc kyi
gdkifgtf. Kygz gz kyi fizapk tc ptdq hdo mhfgio ilbifgidui hdo gk
hqfiiz cappv sgky kyi fixagfijidkz tc qtto hojgdgzkfhkgtd gd taf tsd
uhzi.

Kyi ufihkgtd tc h ctfizk zifmgui gd kyi Oibhfkjidk tc Hqfguapkafi sgpp
yhmi ctf gkz gjbtfkhdk fizapkz:

Cgfzk. H nikkif yhdopgdq tc hpp ctfizk stfr; niuhazi gk sgpp ni adoif h
zgdqpi yiho, hdo niuhazi kyi mhzk hdo gdogzbidzhnpi ilbifgidui tc kyi
Oibhfkjidk gd hpp jhkkifz bifkhgdgdq kt kyi ctfizk fizifmiz, kt
ctfizkfv gd qidifhp, hdo kt tkyif ctfjz tc bftoaukgtd cftj kyi ztgp,
sgpp ni ihzgpv hdo fhbgopv huuizzgnpi.

Ziutdo. Kyi fizifmiz kyijzipmiz, nigdq yhdopio cftj kyi btgdk tc mgis
tc kyi jhd gd kyi cgipo, gdzkiho tc kyi jhd gd kyi tccgui, sgpp ni jtfi
ihzgpv hdo jtfi sgoipv azicap kt kyi bitbpi tc kyi Sizk kyhd yhz niid
kyi uhzi ygkyifkt.

Kygfo. Sgkygd h utjbhfhkgmipv zytfk kgji kyi fizifmiz sgpp niutji
zipc-zabbtfkgdq. Kygz gz gjbtfkhdk, niuhazi utdkgdahppv hdo fhbgopv
gdufihzgdq hbbftbfghkgtdz sgpp ni diuizzhfv ctf kyi bftbif uhfi tc kygz
iluiiogdqpv gjbtfkhdk gdkifizk tc kyi Dhkgtd, hdo kyiv uhd hdo zytapo
yi tcczik nv fikafdz cftj kyi Dhkgtdhp ctfizkz. Adoif zgjgphf
ugfuajzkhduiz kyi ctfizk btzzizzgtdz tc tkyif qfihk dhkgtdz ctfj hd
gjbtfkhdk ztafui tc fimidai kt kyigf qtmifdjidkz.

Imifv hojgdgzkfhkgmi tccguif utduifdio gz utdmgduio tc kyi diuizzgkv
ctf kyi bftbtzio utdztpgohkgtd tc ctfizk stfr gd kyi Oibhfkjidk tc
Hqfguapkafi, hdo G jvzipc yhmi afqio gk jtfi kyhd tdui gd ctfjif
jizzhqiz. Hqhgd G utjjido gk kt kyi ihfpv hdo chmtfhnpi utdzgoifhkgtd
tc kyi Utdqfizz. Kyi gdkifizkz tc kyi Dhkgtd hk phfqi hdo tc kyi Sizk
gd bhfkguaphf yhmi zaccifio qfihkpv niuhazi tc kyi oiphv.

G uhpp kyi hkkidkgtd tc kyi Utdqfizz hqhgd kt kyi fibtfk hdo
fiutjjidohkgtd tc kyi Utjjgzzgtd td kyi Banpgu Phdoz ctfshfoio nv ji kt
kyi ziutdo zizzgtd tc kyi bfizidk Utdqfizz. Kyi Utjjgzzgtd yhz
bftziuakio gkz gdmizkgqhkgtdz hukgmipv oafgdq kyi bhzk zihztd, hdo h
ziutdo fibtfk gz dts gd hd homhduio zkhqi tc bfibhfhkgtd.

Gd utddiukgtd sgky kyi stfr tc kyi ctfizk fizifmiz G oizgfi hqhgd kt
afqi abtd kyi Utdqfizz kyi gjbtfkhdui tc hakytfgwgdq kyi Bfizgoidk kt
zik hzgoi uifkhgd btfkgtdz tc kyizi fizifmiz tf tkyif banpgu phdoz hz
qhji ficaqiz ctf kyi bfizifmhkgtd tc kyi ngztd, kyi shbgkg, hdo tkyif
phfqi nihzkz tdui zt hnadohdk gd taf sttoz hdo jtadkhgdz hdo td taf
qfihk bphgdz, hdo dts kidogdq ktshfo ilkgdukgtd. Imifv zabbtfk zytapo
ni qgmid kt kyi hakytfgkgiz tc kyi Vipptszktdi Bhfr gd kyigf zauuizzcap
icctfkz hk bfizifmgdq kyi phfqi ufihkafiz kyifigd; hdo hk mifv pgkkpi
ilbidzi btfkgtdz tc kyi banpgu otjhgd gd tkyif fiqgtdz syguy hfi sytppv
adzagkio kt hqfguapkafhp zikkpijidk utapo ni zgjgphfpv akgpgwio. Si tsi
gk kt cakafi qidifhkgtdz kt riib hpgmi kyi dtnpi hdo nihakgcap
ufihkafiz syguy nv kyigf bfizidui hoo zauy ogzkgdukgmi uyhfhukif kt kyi
Hjifguhd sgpoifdizz. Kyi pgjgkz tc kyi Vipptszktdi Bhfr zytapo ni
ilkidoio ztakyshfoz. Kyi Uhdvtd tc kyi Utptfhot zytapo ni jhoi h
dhkgtdhp bhfr; hdo kyi dhkgtdhp-bhfr zvzkij zytapo gdupaoi kyi Vtzijgki
hdo hz jhdv hz btzzgnpi tc kyi qftmiz tc qghdk kfiiz gd Uhpgctfdgh.

Kyi mikifhdz tc kyi Ugmgp Shf yhmi h uphgj abtd kyi Dhkgtd zauy hz dt
tkyif ntov tc taf ugkgwidz btzzizz. Kyi Bidzgtd Nafiha yhz dimif gd gkz
ygzktfv niid jhdhqio gd h jtfi zhkgzchuktfv jhddif kyhd gz dts kyi
uhzi.

Kyi bftqfizz tc kyi Gdoghdz ktshfo ugmgpgwhkgtd, kytaqy dtk fhbgo, gz
bifyhbz hpp kyhk utapo ni ytbio ctf gd mgis tc kyi ugfuajzkhduiz.
Sgkygd kyi bhzk vihf jhdv kfgniz yhmi zytsd, gd h oiqfii qfihkif kyhd
imif nictfi, hd hbbfiughkgtd tc kyi diuizzgkv tc stfr. Kygz uyhdqio
hkkgkaoi gz gd bhfk oai kt kyi btpguv fiuidkpv bafzaio tc fioaugdq kyi
hjtadk tc zanzgzkidui kt kyi Gdoghdz, hdo kyaz ctfugdq kyij, kyftaqy
zyiif diuizzgkv, kt stfr ctf h pgmipgytto. Kyi btpguv, kytaqy zimifi,
gz h azicap tdi, nak gk gz kt ni ilifugzio tdpv sgky eaoqjidk hdo sgky
h capp adoifzkhdogdq tc kyi utdogkgtdz syguy ilgzk gd ihuy utjjadgkv
ctf syguy gk gz gdkidoio. Td tf dihf kyi Gdoghd fizifmhkgtdz kyifi gz
azahppv mifv pgkkpi oijhdo ctf phntf, hdo gc kyi Gdoghdz hfi kt ihfd
kyigf pgmgdq hdo syid stfr uhd dtk ni cafdgzyio cftj takzgoi (syguy gz
hpshvz bficifhnpi), kyid gk jazk ni cafdgzyio nv kyi Qtmifdjidk.
Bfhukguhp gdzkfaukgtd tc kygz rgdo stapo gd h cis vihfz fizapk gd kyi
ctfjgdq tc yhngkz tc fiqaphf gdoazkfv, syguy stapo fidoif kyi Gdoghd h
bftoauif hdo stapo icciuk h qfihk fioaukgtd gd kyi utzk tc ygz
jhgdkidhdui.

Gk gz utjjtdpv oiuphfio kyhk kyi zpts homhdui tc kyi Gdoghdz gz oai kt
kyi adzhkgzchuktfv uyhfhukif tc kyi jid hbbtgdkio kt khri gjjioghki
uyhfqi tc kyij, hdo kt ztji ilkidk kygz gz kfai. Sygpi kyi zkhdohfo tc
kyi ijbptviiz gd kyi Gdoghd Zifmgui zytsz qfihk gjbftmijidk tmif kyhk
tc nvqtdi vihfz, hdo sygpi hukahp utffabkgtd tf cphqfhdk ogzytdizkv gz
dts kyi fhfi iluibkgtd, gk gz dimifkyipizz kyi chuk kyhk kyi zhphfgiz
bhgo Gdoghd hqidkz hfi dtk phfqi idtaqy kt hkkfhuk kyi nizk jid kt kyhk
cgipo tc stfr. Kt huygimi zhkgzchuktfv fizapkz kyi tccgughp gd uyhfqi
tc hd Gdoghd kfgni zytapo btzzizz kyi ygqy xahpgcguhkgtdz syguy hfi
fixagfio gd kyi jhdhqif tc h phfqi nazgdizz, nak tdpv gd iluibkgtdhp
uhziz gz gk btzzgnpi kt ziuafi jid tc zauy h kvbi ctf kyizi btzgkgtdz.
Jauy nikkif zifmgui, ytsimif, jgqyk ni tnkhgdio cftj kytzi dts ytpogdq
kyi bphuiz sifi gk bfhukguhnpi kt qik tak tc kyij kyi nizk kyhk gz gd
kyij, hdo kygz zytapo ni otdi nv nfgdqgdq kyij utdzkhdkpv gdkt uptzif
ktauy sgky kyigf zabifgtf tccguifz. Hd hqidk syt yhz niid utdkidk kt
ofhs ygz zhphfv, qgmgdq gd fikafd kyi pihzk btzzgnpi ixagmhpidk gd
icctfk hdo zifmgui, jhv, nv bftbif kfihkjidk, nv zaqqizkgtd hdo
idutafhqijidk, tf bifzgzkidk afqgdq, ni zkgjaphkio kt qfihkif icctfk
hdo gdoauio kt khri h jtfi hukgmi bifztdhp gdkifizk gd ygz stfr.

Adoif ilgzkgdq utdogkgtdz hd Gdoghd hqidk gd kyi ogzkhdk Sizk jhv ni
sytppv tak tc ktauy sgky kyi tccgui tc kyi Gdoghd Nafiha. Yi jhv mifv
sipp ciip kyhk dt tdi khriz h bifztdhp gdkifizk gd ygj tf ygz icctfkz.
Uifkhgd ftakgdi oakgiz gd kyi shv tc fibtfkz hdo huutadkz hfi fixagfio
tc ygj, nak kyifi gz dt tdi sgky sytj yi jhv gdkippgqidkpv utdzapk td
jhkkifz mgkhp kt ygz stfr, iluibk hckif ptdq oiphv. Zauy h jhd stapo ni
qfihkpv idutafhqio hdo hgoio nv bifztdhp utdkhuk sgky ztji tdi sytzi
gdkifizk gd Gdoghd hcchgfz hdo sytzi hakytfgkv gd kyi Gdoghd Nafiha
sifi qfihkif kyhd ygz tsd, hdo zauy utdkhuk stapo ni uifkhgd kt hftazi
hdo utdzkhdkpv gdufihzi kyi gdkifizk yi khriz gd ygz stfr.

Kyi ogzkhdui syguy zibhfhkiz kyi hqidkz--kyi stfrifz gd kyi cgipo--cftj
kyi Gdoghd Tccgui gd Shzygdqktd gz h uygic tnzkhupi kt Gdoghd bftqfizz.
Syhkimif zyhpp jtfi uptzipv adgki kyizi kst nfhduyiz tc kyi Gdoghd
Zifmgui, hdo zyhpp idhnpi kyij kt ut-tbifhki jtfi yihfkgpv hdo jtfi
icciukgmipv, sgpp ni ctf kyi gdufihzio iccgugiduv tc kyi stfr hdo kyi
nikkifjidk tc kyi fhui ctf sytzi gjbftmijidk kyi Gdoghd Nafiha shz
izkhnpgzyio. Kyi hbbtgdkjidk tc h cgipo hzzgzkhdk kt kyi Utjjgzzgtdif
tc Gdoghd Hcchgfz stapo ni uifkhgd kt gdzafi kygz qtto ido. Zauy hd
tccgughp, gc btzzizzio tc kyi fixagzgki idifqv hdo oiib gdkifizk gd kyi
stfr, stapo ni h jtzk iccgugidk chuktf gd nfgdqgdq gdkt uptzif
fiphkgtdzygb hdo h jtfi ogfiuk adgtd tc icctfk kyi Nafiha gd Shzygdqktd
hdo gkz hqidkz gd kyi cgipo; hdo sgky kyi ut-tbifhkgtd tc gkz nfhduyiz
kyaz ziuafio kyi Gdoghd Nafiha stapo, gd jihzafi cappif kyhd imif
nictfi, pgck ab kyi zhmhqi ktshfo kyhk zipc-yipb hdo zipc-fipghdui
syguy utdzkgkaki kyi jhd.

Gd 1907 kyifi sgpp ni yipo hk Yhjbktd Fthoz kyi kfguidkiddghp
uipinfhkgtd tc kyi zikkpijidk hk Ehjizktsd, Mgfqgdgh, sgky syguy kyi
ygzktfv tc syhk yhz dts niutji kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz fihppv niqgdz. G
utjjido kygz kt vtaf chmtfhnpi utdzgoifhkgtd. Gk gz hd imidk tc bfgji
ygzktfgu zgqdgcguhdui, gd syguy hpp kyi bitbpi tc kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz
zytapo ciip, hdo zytapo zyts, qfihk hdo qidifhp gdkifizk.

Gd kyi Btzk-Tccgui Oibhfkjidk kyi zifmgui yhz gdufihzio gd iccgugiduv,
hdo utdogkgtdz hz kt fimidai hdo ilbidogkafi utdkgdai zhkgzchuktfv. Kyi
gdufihzi tc fimidai oafgdq kyi vihf shz $9,358,181.10, tf 6.9 bif uidk,
kyi ktkhp fiuigbkz hjtadkgdq kt $143,382,624.34. Kyi ilbidogkafiz sifi
$152,362,116.70, hd gdufihzi tc hntak 9 bif uidk tmif kyi bfimgtaz
vihf, nigdq kyaz $8,979,492.36 gd iluizz tc kyi uaffidk fimidai.
Gdupaoio gd kyizi ilbidogkafiz shz h ktkhp hbbftbfghkgtd tc
$152,956,637.35 ctf kyi utdkgdahkgtd hdo ilkidzgtd tc kyi fafhp
cfii-oipgmifv zifmgui, syguy shz hd gdufihzi tc $4,902,237.35 tmif kyi
hjtadk ilbidoio ctf kygz bafbtzi gd kyi bfiuiogdq cgzuhp vihf. Phfqi hz
kygz ilbidogkafi yhz niid kyi nidicguidk fizapkz hkkhgdio gd ilkidogdq
kyi cfii ogzkfgnakgtd tc jhgpz kt kyi fizgoidkz tc fafhp ogzkfgukz yhmi
eazkgcgio kyi sgzotj tc kyi takphv. Zkhkgzkguz nftaqyk otsd kt kyi 1zk
tc Tuktnif, 1904, zyts kyhk td kyhk ohki kyifi sifi 27,138 fafhp ftakiz
izkhnpgzyio, zifmgdq hbbftlgjhkipv 12,000,000 tc bitbpi gd fafhp
ogzkfgukz fijtki cftj btzk-tccguiz, hdo kyhk kyifi sifi bidogdq hk kyhk
kgji 3,859 bikgkgtdz ctf kyi izkhnpgzyjidk tc dis fafhp ftakiz.
Adxaizkgtdhnpv ztji bhfk tc kyi qidifhp gdufihzi gd fiuigbkz gz oai kt
kyi gdufihzio btzkhp chugpgkgiz syguy kyi fafhp zifmgui yhz hcctfoio.
Kyi fimidaiz yhmi hpzt niid hgoio qfihkpv nv hjidojidkz gd kyi
uphzzgcguhkgtd tc jhgp jhkkif, hdo kyi uafkhgpjidk tc hnaziz tc kyi
ziutdo-uphzz jhgpgdq bfgmgpiqi. Kyi hmifhqi gdufihzi gd kyi mtpaji tc
jhgp jhkkif ctf kyi bifgto niqgddgdq sgky 1902 hdo idogdq Eadi, 1905
(kyhk btfkgtd ctf 1905 nigdq izkgjhkio), gz 40.47 bif uidk, hz utjbhfio
sgky 25.46 bif uidk ctf kyi bifgto gjjioghkipv bfiuiogdq, hdo 15.92 ctf
kyi ctaf-vihf bifgto gjjioghkipv bfiuiogdq kyhk.

Taf utdzaphf zvzkij diioz gjbftmijidk. Zhphfgiz zytapo ni zanzkgkakio
ctf ciiz, hdo kyi bftbif uphzzgcguhkgtd, qfhogdq, hdo kfhdzcif tc
utdzaphf tccguifz zytapo ni bftmgoio. G hj dtk bfibhfio kt zhv kyhk h
utjbikgkgmi zvzkij tc ilhjgdhkgtdz ctf hbbtgdkjidk stapo stfr sipp; nak
nv phs gk zytapo ni bftmgoio kyhk utdzapz zytapo ni chjgpghf, huutfogdq
kt bphuiz ctf syguy kyiv hbbpv, sgky kyi Cfiduy, Qifjhd, tf Zbhdgzy
phdqahqiz, hdo zytapo btzzizz huxahgdkhdui sgky kyi fiztafuiz tc kyi
Adgkio Zkhkiz.

Kyi utppiukgtd tc tneiukz tc hfk utdkijbphkio gd ziukgtd 5586 tc kyi
Fimgzio Zkhkakiz zytapo ni oizgqdhkio hdo izkhnpgzyio hz h Dhkgtdhp
Qhppifv tc Hfk; hdo kyi Zjgkyztdghd Gdzkgkakgtd zytapo ni hakytfgwio kt
huuibk hdv hoogkgtdz kt zhgo utppiukgtd kyhk jhv ni fiuigmio nv qgck,
nixaizk, tf oimgzi.

Gk gz oizgfhnpi kt idhuk h bftbif Dhkgtdhp xahfhdkgdi phs. Gk gz jtzk
adoizgfhnpi kyhk h Zkhki zytapo td gkz tsd gdgkghkgmi idctfui
xahfhdkgdi fiqaphkgtdz syguy hfi gd icciuk h fizkfgukgtd abtd
gdkifzkhki hdo gdkifdhkgtdhp utjjifui. Kyi xaizkgtd zytapo bftbifpv ni
hzzajio nv kyi Qtmifdjidk hptdi. Kyi Zafqitd-Qidifhp tc kyi Dhkgtdhp
Banpgu Yihpky hdo Jhfgdi-Ytzbgkhp Zifmgui yhz fibihkiopv hdo
utdmgdugdqpv zik ctfky kyi diio ctf zauy piqgzphkgtd.

G uhpp vtaf hkkidkgtd kt kyi qfihk ilkfhmhqhdui gd bfgdkgdq hdo ngdogdq
Qtmifdjidk banpguhkgtdz, hdo izbiughppv kt kyi chuk kyhk hpktqikyif ktt
jhdv tc kyizi banpguhkgtdz hfi bfgdkio. Kyifi gz h utdzkhdk kidoiduv kt
gdufihzi kyigf dajnif hdo kyigf mtpaji. Gk gz hd adoifzkhkijidk kt zhv
kyhk dt hbbfiughnpi yhfj stapo ni uhazio nv, hdo zanzkhdkghp nidicgk
stapo huufai cftj, oiufihzgdq kyi hjtadk tc bfgdkgdq dts otdi nv hk
pihzk tdi-yhpc. Bftnhnpv kyi qfihk jhetfgkv tc kyi Qtmifdjidk fibtfkz
hdo kyi pgri dts bfgdkio hfi dimif fiho hk hpp, hdo cafkyifjtfi kyi
bfgdkgdq tc jauy tc kyi jhkifghp utdkhgdio gd jhdv tc kyi fijhgdgdq
tdiz zifmiz dt azicap bafbtzi syhkimif.

Kyi hkkidkgtd tc kyi Utdqfizz zytapo ni izbiughppv qgmid kt kyi
uaffiduv xaizkgtd, hdo kyhk kyi zkhdogdq utjjgkkiiz td kyi jhkkif gd
kyi kst Ytaziz uyhfqio sgky kyi oakv, khri ab kyi jhkkif tc taf
uaffiduv hdo zii syikyif gk gz dtk btzzgnpi kt ziuafi hd hqfiijidk gd
kyi nazgdizz stfpo ctf nikkifgdq kyi zvzkij; kyi utjjgkkiiz zytapo
utdzgoif kyi xaizkgtd tc kyi fikgfijidk tc kyi qfiidnhurz hdo kyi
bftnpij tc ziuafgdq gd taf uaffiduv zauy iphzkgugkv hz gz utdzgzkidk
sgky zhcikv. Imifv zgpmif otpphf zytapo ni jhoi nv phs fioiijhnpi gd
qtpo hk kyi tbkgtd tc kyi ytpoif.

G izbiughppv utjjido kt vtaf gjjioghki hkkidkgtd kyi idutafhqijidk tc
taf jifuyhdk jhfgdi nv hbbftbfghki piqgzphkgtd.

Kyi qftsgdq gjbtfkhdui tc kyi Tfgidk hz h cgipo ctf Hjifguhd ilbtfkz
ofis cftj jv bfioiuizztf, Bfizgoidk JuRgdpiv, hd afqidk fixaizk ctf gkz
zbiughp utdzgoifhkgtd nv kyi Utdqfizz. Gd ygz jizzhqi tc 1898 yi
zkhkio:

"Gd kygz fiphkgtd, hz zytsgdq kyi biuapghf mtpaji hdo mhpai tc taf
kfhoi sgky Uygdh hdo kyi biuapghfpv chmtfhnpi utdogkgtdz syguy ilgzk
ctf kyigf ilbhdzgtd gd kyi dtfjhp utafzi tc kfhoi, G ficif kt kyi
utjjadguhkgtd hoofizzio kt kyi Zbihrif tc kyi Ytazi tc Fibfizidkhkgmiz
nv kyi Ziufikhfv tc kyi Kfihzafv td kyi 14ky tc phzk Eadi, sgky gkz
huutjbhdvgdq pikkif tc kyi Ziufikhfv tc Zkhki, fiutjjidogdq hd
hbbftbfghkgtd ctf h utjjgzzgtd kt zkaov kyi gdoazkfghp hdo utjjifughp
utdogkgtdz gd kyi Uygdizi Ijbgfi hdo kt fibtfk hz kt kyi tbbtfkadgkgiz
ctf hdo kyi tnzkhupiz kt kyi idphfqijidk tc jhfrikz gd Uygdh ctf kyi
fhs bftoaukz hdo jhdachukafiz tc kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz. Hukgtd shz dtk
khrid kyifitd oafgdq kyi phzk zizzgtd. G utfoghppv afqi kyhk kyi
fiutjjidohkgtd fiuigmi hk vtaf yhdoz kyi utdzgoifhkgtd syguy gkz
gjbtfkhdui hdo kgjipgdizz jifgk."

Gd ygz hddahp jizzhqi tc 1889 yi hqhgd uhppio hkkidkgtd kt kygz
fiutjjidohkgtd, xatkgdq gk, hdo zkhkio cafkyif:

"G dts fidis kygz fiutjjidohkgtd, hz kyi gjbtfkhdui tc kyi zaneiuk yhz
zkihogpv qftsd zgdui gk shz cgfzk zanjgkkio kt vta, hdo dt kgji zytapo
ni ptzk gd zkaovgdq ctf tafzipmiz kyi fiztafuiz tc kygz qfihk cgipo ctf
Hjifguhd kfhoi hdo idkifbfgzi."

Kyi gjbtfkhdui tc ziuafgdq bftbif gdctfjhkgtd hdo ohkh sgky h mgis kt
kyi idphfqijidk tc taf kfhoi sgky Hzgh gz adogjgdgzyio. Taf utdzaphf
fibfizidkhkgmiz gd Uygdh yhmi zkftdqpv afqio h bphui ctf bifjhdidk
ogzbphv tc Hjifguhd bftoaukz gd ztji bftjgdidk kfhoi uidkif tc kyhk
Ijbgfi, adoif Qtmifdjidk utdkftp hdo jhdhqijidk, hz hd icciukgmi jihdz
tc homhdugdq taf ilbtfk kfhoi kyifigd. G uhpp kyi hkkidkgtd tc kyi
Utdqfizz kt kyi oizgfhngpgkv tc uhffvgdq tak kyizi zaqqizkgtdz.

Gd oihpgdq sgky kyi xaizkgtdz tc gjjgqfhkgtd hdo dhkafhpgwhkgtd gk gz
gdogzbidzhnpi kt riib uifkhgd chukz imif nictfi kyi jgdoz tc kytzi syt
zyhfi gd idhukgdq kyi phsz. Cgfzk hdo ctfijtzk, pik az fijijnif kyhk
kyi xaizkgtd tc nigdq h qtto Hjifguhd yhz dtkygdq syhkimif kt ot sgky h
jhd'z ngfkybphui hdv jtfi kyhd gk yhz kt ot sgky ygz ufiio. Gd imifv
qidifhkgtd cftj kyi kgji kygz Qtmifdjidk shz ctadoio jid tc ctfigqd
ngfky yhmi zktto gd kyi mifv ctfijtzk fhdr tc qtto ugkgwidzygb, hdo
kyhk dtk jifipv gd tdi nak gd imifv cgipo tc Hjifguhd hukgmgkv; sygpi
kt kfv kt ofhs h ogzkgdukgtd niksiid kyi jhd sytzi bhfidkz uhji kt kygz
utadkfv hdo kyi jhd sytzi hduizktfz uhji kt gk zimifhp qidifhkgtdz nhur
gz h jifi hnzafogkv. Qtto Hjifguhdgzj gz h jhkkif tc yihfk, tc
utdzugidui, tc ptckv hzbgfhkgtd, tc ztado utjjtd zidzi, nak dtk tc
ngfkybphui tf tc ufiio. Kyi jiohp tc ytdtf, kyi ygqyizk bfgwi kt ni std
nv kytzi syt zifmi gd kyi Hfjv hdo kyi Dhmv tc kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz
oiutfhkiz jid ntfd yifi, hdo gk hpzt oiutfhkiz jid ntfd gd Qfihk
Nfgkhgd hdo Gfiphdo, gd Qifjhdv, gd Zuhdogdhmgh, gd Cfhdui, hdo
otankpizz gd tkyif utadkfgiz hpzt. Gd kyi cgipo tc zkhkizjhdzygb, gd
kyi cgipo tc nazgdizz, gd kyi cgipo tc bygphdkyftbgu idoihmtf, gk gz
ixahppv kfai kyhk hjtdq kyi jid tc sytj si hfi jtzk bftao hz Hjifguhdz
dt ogzkgdukgtd syhkimif uhd ni ofhsd niksiid kytzi syt kyijzipmiz tf
sytzi bhfidkz uhji tmif gd zhgpgdq zygb tf zkihjif cftj huftzz kyi
shkif hdo kytzi sytzi hduizktfz zkibbio hzytfi gdkt kyi sttoio
sgpoifdizz hk Bpvjtaky tf hk kyi jtaky tc kyi Yaoztd, kyi Oiphshfi, tf
kyi Ehjiz dihfpv kyfii uidkafgiz hqt. Dt cippts-ugkgwid tc tafz gz
idkgkpio kt hdv biuapghf fiqhfo niuhazi tc kyi shv gd syguy yi stfzygbz
ygz Jhrif, tf niuhazi tc kyi ngfkybphui tc ygjzipc tf ygz bhfidkz, dtf
zytapo yi ni gd hdv shv ogzufgjgdhkio hqhgdzk kyifictf. Ihuy jazk zkhdo
td ygz stfky hz h jhd hdo ihuy gz idkgkpio kt ni eaoqio ztpipv kyifinv.

Kyifi gz dt ohdqif tc yhmgdq ktt jhdv gjjgqfhdkz tc kyi fgqyk rgdo. Gk
jhriz dt ogccifidui cftj syhk utadkfv kyiv utji. Gc kyiv hfi ztado gd
ntov hdo gd jgdo, hdo, hntmi hpp, gc kyiv hfi tc qtto uyhfhukif, zt
kyhk si uhd fizk hzzafio kyhk kyigf uygpofid hdo qfhdouygpofid sgpp ni
stfkyv cippts-ugkgwidz tc taf uygpofid hdo qfhdouygpofid, kyid si
zytapo siputji kyij sgky utfoghp ytzbgkhpgkv.

Nak kyi ugkgwidzygb tc kygz utadkfv zytapo dtk ni oinhzio. Gk gz mgkhp
kyhk si zytapo riib ygqy kyi zkhdohfo tc sipp-nigdq hjtdq taf
shqi-stfrifz, hdo kyifictfi si zytapo dtk hojgk jhzziz tc jid sytzi
zkhdohfoz tc pgmgdq hdo sytzi bifztdhp uazktjz hdo yhngkz hfi zauy kyhk
kyiv kido kt ptsif kyi pimip tc kyi Hjifguhd shqi-stfrif; hdo hntmi hpp
si zytapo dtk hojgk hdv jhd tc hd adstfkyv kvbi, hdv jhd utduifdgdq
sytj si uhd zhv kyhk yi sgpp ygjzipc ni h nho ugkgwid, tf kyhk ygz
uygpofid hdo qfhdouygpofid sgpp oikfhuk cftj gdzkiho tc hoogdq kt kyi
zaj tc kyi qtto ugkgwidzygb tc kyi utadkfv. Zgjgphfpv si zytapo khri
kyi qfihkizk uhfi hntak dhkafhpgwhkgtd. Cfhaoapidk dhkafhpgwhkgtd, kyi
dhkafhpgwhkgtd tc gjbftbif bifztdz, gz h uafzi kt taf Qtmifdjidk; hdo
gk gz kyi hcchgf tc imifv ytdizk mtkif, syifimif ntfd, kt zii kyhk dt
cfhaoapidk mtkgdq gz hpptsio, kyhk dt cfhao gd utddiukgtd sgky
dhkafhpgwhkgtd gz bifjgkkio.

Gd kyi bhzk vihf kyi uhziz tc chpzi, cfhaoapidk, hdo gjbftbif
dhkafhpgwhkgtd tc hpgidz utjgdq kt kyi hkkidkgtd tc kyi iliuakgmi
nfhduyiz tc kyi Qtmifdjidk yhmi gdufihzio kt hd hphfjgdq oiqfii.
Ilkidzgmi zhpiz tc ctfqio uifkgcguhkiz tc dhkafhpgwhkgtd yhmi niid
ogzutmifio, hz sipp hz jhdv uhziz tc dhkafhpgwhkgtd ziuafio nv bifeafv
hdo cfhao; hdo gd hoogkgtd, gdzkhduiz yhmi huuajaphkio zytsgdq kyhk
jhdv utafkz gzzai uifkgcguhkiz tc dhkafhpgwhkgtd uhfipizzpv hdo abtd
gdzaccgugidk imgoidui.

Adoif kyi Utdzkgkakgtd gk gz gd kyi btsif tc kyi Utdqfizz "kt izkhnpgzy
h adgctfj fapi tc dhkafhpgwhkgtd," hdo dajiftaz phsz yhmi cftj kgji kt
kgji niid idhukio ctf kyhk bafbtzi, syguy yhmi niid zabbpijidkio gd h
cis Zkhkiz nv Zkhki phsz yhmgdq zbiughp hbbpguhkgtd. Kyi Cioifhp
zkhkakiz bifjgk dhkafhpgwhkgtd nv hdv utafk tc fiutfo gd kyi Adgkio
Zkhkiz yhmgdq utjjtd-phs eafgzogukgtd hdo h zihp hdo upifr, iluibk kyi
btpgui utafk tc kyi Ogzkfguk tc Utpajngh, hdo dihfpv hpp kyizi utafkz
ilifugzi kygz gjbtfkhdk cadukgtd. Gk fizapkz kyhk syifi zt jhdv utafkz
tc zauy mhfvgdq qfhoiz yhmi eafgzogukgtd, kyifi gz phur tc adgctfjgkv
gd kyi fapiz hbbpgio gd utdciffgdq dhkafhpgwhkgtd. Ztji utafkz hfi
zkfguk hdo tkyifz phl. Hd hpgid syt jhv ziuafi dhkafhpgwhkgtd gd tdi
bphui jgqyk ni oidgio gk gd hdtkyif, hdo kyi gdkidk tc kyi
utdzkgkakgtdhp bftmgzgtd gz gd chuk oicihkio. Cafkyifjtfi, kyi
uifkgcguhkiz tc dhkafhpgwhkgtd gzzaio nv kyi utafkz ogccif sgoipv gd
stfogdq hdo hbbihfhdui, hdo syid kyiv hfi nftaqyk gdkt azi gd ctfigqd
utadkfgiz, hfi cfixaidkpv zaneiuk kt zazbgugtd.

Kyifi zytapo ni h utjbfiyidzgmi fimgzgtd tc kyi dhkafhpgwhkgtd phsz.
Kyi utafkz yhmgdq btsif kt dhkafhpgwi zytapo ni oicgdgkipv dhjio nv
dhkgtdhp hakytfgkv; kyi kizkgjtdv abtd syguy dhkafhpgwhkgtd jhv ni
utdciffio zytapo ni oicgdgkipv bfizufgnio; banpguhkgtd tc gjbidogdq
dhkafhpgwhkgtd hbbpguhkgtdz zytapo ni fixagfio gd homhdui tc kyigf
yihfgdq gd utafk; kyi ctfj hdo stfogdq tc hpp uifkgcguhkiz gzzaio
zytapo ni adgctfj kyftaqytak kyi utadkfv, hdo kyi utafkz zytapo ni
fixagfio kt jhri fikafdz kt kyi Ziufikhfv tc Zkhki hk zkhkio bifgtoz tc
hpp dhkafhpgwhkgtdz utdciffio.

Dtk tdpv hfi kyi phsz fiphkgdq kt dhkafhpgwhkgtd dts oiciukgmi, nak
kytzi fiphkgdq kt ugkgwidzygb tc kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz taqyk hpzt kt ni
jhoi kyi zaneiuk tc zugidkgcgu gdxagfv sgky h mgis kt bftnhnpi cafkyif
piqgzphkgtd. Nv syhk hukz ilbhkfghkgtd jhv ni hzzajio kt yhmi niid
huutjbpgzyio, yts ptdq hd Hjifguhd ugkgwid jhv fizgoi hnftho hdo
fiuigmi kyi bftkiukgtd tc taf bhzzbtfk, syikyif hdv oiqfii tc
bftkiukgtd zytapo ni ilkidoio kt tdi syt yhz jhoi kyi oiuphfhkgtd tc
gdkidkgtd kt niutji h ugkgwid tc kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz nak yhz dtk ziuafio
dhkafhpgwhkgtd, hfi xaizkgtdz tc zifgtaz gjbtfk, gdmtpmgdq bifztdhp
fgqykz hdo tckid bftoaugdq cfgukgtd niksiid kygz Qtmifdjidk hdo ctfigqd
qtmifdjidkz. Vik abtd kyizi xaizkgtd taf phsz hfi zgpidk. G fiutjjido
kyhk hd ilhjgdhkgtd ni jhoi gdkt kyi zaneiukz tc ugkgwidzygb,
ilbhkfghkgtd, hdo bftkiukgtd tc Hjifguhdz hnftho, sgky h mgis kt
hbbftbfghki piqgzphkgtd.

Kyi btsif tc kyi Qtmifdjidk kt bftkiuk kyi gdkiqfgkv tc kyi ipiukgtdz
tc gkz tsd tccgughpz gz gdyifidk hdo yhz niid fiutqdgwio hdo hccgfjio
nv fibihkio oiuphfhkgtdz tc kyi Zabfiji Utafk. Kyifi gz dt idijv tc
cfii qtmifdjidk jtfi ohdqiftaz hdo dtdi zt gdzgogtaz hz kyi utffabkgtd
tc kyi ipiuktfhki. Dt tdi oicidoz tf iluaziz utffabkgtd, hdo gk stapo
ziij kt ctppts kyhk dtdi stapo tbbtzi mgqtftaz jihzafiz kt ifhoguhki
gk. G fiutjjido kyi idhukjidk tc h phs ogfiukio hqhgdzk nfgnifv hdo
utffabkgtd gd Cioifhp ipiukgtdz. Kyi oikhgpz tc zauy h phs jhv ni
zhcipv pick kt kyi sgzi ogzufikgtd tc kyi Utdqfizz, nak gk zytapo qt hz
chf hz adoif kyi Utdzkgkakgtd gk gz btzzgnpi kt qt, hdo zytapo gdupaoi
zimifi bidhpkgiz hqhgdzk ygj syt qgmiz tf fiuigmiz h nfgni gdkidoio kt
gdcpaidui ygz huk tf tbgdgtd hz hd ipiuktf; hdo bftmgzgtdz ctf kyi
banpguhkgtd dtk tdpv tc kyi ilbidogkafiz ctf dtjgdhkgtdz hdo ipiukgtdz
tc hpp uhdogohkiz nak hpzt tc hpp utdkfgnakgtdz fiuigmio hdo
ilbidogkafiz jhoi nv btpgkguhp utjjgkkiiz.

Dt zaneiuk gz nikkif stfkyv kyi hkkidkgtd tc kyi Utdqfizz kyhd kyhk
btfkgtd tc kyi fibtfk tc kyi Hkktfdiv-Qidifhp oihpgdq sgky kyi ptdq
oiphvz hdo kyi qfihk tnzkfaukgtd kt eazkgui ilbifgiduio gd kyi uhziz tc
Nihmifz, Qfiid hdo Qhvdtf, hdo Nidztd. Sifi kyizi gztphkio hdo zbiughp
uhziz, G zytapo dtk uhpp vtaf hkkidkgtd kt kyij; nak kyi ogccguapkgiz
idutadkifio hz fiqhfoz kyizi jid syt yhmi niid gdogukio ctf ufgjgdhp
bfhukguiz hfi dtk iluibkgtdhp; kyiv hfi bfiugzipv zgjgphf gd rgdo kt
syhk tuuafz hqhgd hdo hqhgd gd kyi uhzi tc ufgjgdhpz syt yhmi
zaccgugidk jihdz kt idhnpi kyij kt khri homhdkhqi tc h zvzkij tc
bftuioafi syguy yhz qftsd ab gd kyi Cioifhp utafkz hdo syguy hjtadkz gd
icciuk kt jhrgdq kyi phs ihzv tc idctfuijidk hqhgdzk kyi jhd syt yhz dt
jtdiv, hdo ogccguapk tc idctfuijidk, imid kt kyi btgdk tc ztjikgjiz
ziuafgdq gjjadgkv, hz fiqhfoz kyi jhd syt yhz jtdiv. Gd ufgjgdhp uhziz
kyi sfgk tc kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz zytapo fad kyftaqytak gkz ntfoifz. Kyi
syiipz tc eazkgui zytapo dtk ni uptqqio, hz kyiv yhmi niid uptqqio gd
kyi uhziz hntmi jidkgtdio, syifi gk yhz bftmio hnztpakipv gjbtzzgnpi kt
nfgdq kyi huuazio kt kyi bphui hbbtgdkio nv kyi Utdzkgkakgtd ctf ygz
kfghp. Tc fiuidk vihfz kyifi yhz niid qfhmi hdo gdufihzgdq utjbphgdk tc
kyi ogccguapkv tc nfgdqgdq kt eazkgui kytzi ufgjgdhpz sytzi
ufgjgdhpgkv, gdzkiho tc nigdq hqhgdzk tdi bifztd gd kyi Fibanpgu, gz
hqhgdzk hpp bifztdz gd kyi Fibanpgu, niuhazi gk gz hqhgdzk kyi Fibanpgu
gkzipc. Adoif hdv ugfuajzkhdui hdo cftj kyi mifv dhkafi tc kyi uhzi gk
gz tckid iluiiogdqpv ogccguapk kt ziuafi bftbif badgzyjidk tc kytzi syt
yhmi niid qagpkv tc sftdqotgdq hqhgdzk kyi Qtmifdjidk. Nv kyi kgji kyi
tccidoif uhd ni nftaqyk gdkt utafk kyi btbaphf sfhky hqhgdzk ygj yhz
qidifhppv zanzgoio; hdo kyifi gz gd jtzk gdzkhduiz mifv zpgqyk ohdqif
gdoiio tc hdv bfieaogui ilgzkgdq gd kyi jgdoz tc kyi eafv hqhgdzk ygj.
Hk bfizidk kyi gdkifizkz tc kyi gddtuidk jhd hfi hjbpv zhciqahfoio; nak
kyi gdkifizkz tc kyi Qtmifdjidk, kyhk gz, kyi gdkifizkz tc ytdizk
hojgdgzkfhkgtd, kyhk gz kyi gdkifizkz tc kyi bitbpi, hfi dtk fiutqdgwio
hz kyiv zytapo ni. Dt zaneiuk nikkif shffhdkz kyi hkkidkgtd tc kyi
Utdqfizz. Gdoiio, dt zaneiuk nikkif shffhdkz kyi hkkidkgtd tc kyi niduy
hdo kyi nhf kyftaqytak kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz.

Hphzrh, pgri hpp taf Kiffgktfghp huxagzgkgtdz, yhz bftmio fiztafuicap
nivtdo kyi ilbiukhkgtdz tc kytzi syt jhoi kyi bafuyhzi. Gk yhz niutji
kyi ytji tc jhdv yhfov, gdoazkfgtaz, hdo kyfgckv Hjifguhd ugkgwidz.
Ktsdz tc h bifjhdidk uyhfhukif yhmi niid nagpk. Kyi ilkidk tc gkz
sihpky gd jgdifhpz, kgjnif, cgzyifgiz, hdo hqfguapkafi, sygpi qfihk, gz
bftnhnpv dtk utjbfiyidoio vik gd hdv eazk jihzafi nv taf bitbpi. Si ot
rdts, ytsimif, kyhk cftj h mifv zjhpp niqgddgdq gkz bftoaukz yhmi qftsd
adkgp kyiv hfi h zkihov hdo jhkifghp utdkfgnakgtd kt kyi sihpky tc kyi
dhkgtd. Tsgdq kt kyi gjjidzgkv tc Hphzrh hdo gkz ptuhkgtd gd kyi chf
dtfky, gk gz h ogccguapk jhkkif kt bftmgoi jhdv kygdqz izzidkghp kt gkz
qftsky hdo kt kyi yhbbgdizz hdo utjctfk tc gkz bitbpi nv bfgmhki
idkifbfgzi hptdi. Gk zytapo, kyifictfi, fiuigmi fihztdhnpi hgo cftj kyi
Qtmifdjidk. Kyi Qtmifdjidk yhz hpfihov otdi iluippidk stfr ctf Hphzrh
gd phvgdq uhnpiz hdo nagpogdq kipiqfhby pgdiz. Kygz stfr yhz niid otdi
gd kyi jtzk iutdtjguhp hdo iccgugidk shv nv kyi Zgqdhp Utfbz tc kyi
Hfjv.

Gd ztji fizbiukz gk yhz takqftsd gkz bfizidk phsz, sygpi gd tkyifz
kytzi phsz yhmi niid ctado kt ni gdhoixahki. Gd tfoif kt tnkhgd
gdctfjhkgtd abtd syguy G utapo fipv G uhazio hd tccgughp tc kyi
Oibhfkjidk tc Eazkgui, gd sytzi eaoqjidk G yhmi utdcgoidui, kt mgzgk
Hphzrh oafgdq kyi bhzk zajjif ctf kyi bafbtzi tc hzuifkhgdgdq yts
qtmifdjidk gz hojgdgzkifio kyifi hdo syhk piqgzphkgtd gz hukahppv
diioio hk bfizidk. H zkhkijidk tc kyi utdogkgtdz ctado kt ilgzk,
ktqikyif sgky ztji fiutjjidohkgtdz hdo kyi fihztdz kyifictf, gd syguy G
zkftdqpv utduaf, sgpp ni ctado gd kyi hddahp fibtfk tc kyi
Hkktfdiv-Qidifhp. Gd ztji gdzkhduiz G ciip kyhk kyi piqgzphkgtd
zaqqizkio gz zt gjbifhkgmipv diioio kyhk G hj jtmio nfgicpv kt
ijbyhzgwi kyi Hkktfdiv-Qidifhp'z bftbtzhpz.

Adoif kyi Utoi tc Hphzrh hz gk dts zkhdoz jhdv bafipv hojgdgzkfhkgmi
btsifz hdo oakgiz, gdupaogdq nv chf kyi jtzk gjbtfkhdk, oimtpmi abtd
kyi ogzkfguk eaoqiz tf abtd kyi upifrz tc kyi ogzkfguk utafk hukgdq
adoif kyi ogfiukgtd tc kyi eaoqiz, sygpi kyi qtmifdtf, abtd sytj kyizi
btsifz hdo oakgiz zytapo ptqguhppv chpp, yhz dtkygdq zbiugcgu kt ot
iluibk kt jhri hddahp fibtfkz, gzzai Kyhdrzqgmgdq Ohv bftuphjhkgtdz,
hdo hbbtgdk Gdoghd btpguijid hdo dtkhfgiz banpgu. G nipgimi gk
izzidkghp kt qtto qtmifdjidk gd Hphzrh, hdo kyifictfi fiutjjido, kyhk
kyi Utdqfizz ogmizk kyi ogzkfguk eaoqiz hdo kyi upifrz tc kyigf utafkz
tc kyi hojgdgzkfhkgmi tf iliuakgmi cadukgtdz kyhk kyiv dts ilifugzi hdo
uhzk kyij abtd kyi qtmifdtf. Kygz stapo dtk ni hd gddtmhkgtd; gk stapo
zgjbpv utdctfj kyi qtmifdjidk tc Hphzrh kt cadohjidkhp bfgdugbpiz,
jhrgdq kyi qtmifdtfzygb h fihp gdzkiho tc h jifipv dtjgdhp tccgui, hdo
pihmgdq kyi eaoqiz cfii kt qgmi kyigf idkgfi hkkidkgtd kt kyigf
eaogughp oakgiz hdo hk kyi zhji kgji fijtmgdq kyij cftj h qfihk oihp tc
kyi zkfgci kyhk dts ijnhffhzziz kyi eaogughp tccgui gd Hphzrh.

G hpzt fiutjjido kyhk kyi zhphfgiz tc kyi ogzkfguk eaoqiz hdo ogzkfguk
hkktfdivz gd Hphzrh ni gdufihzio zt hz kt jhri kyij ixahp kt kytzi
fiuigmio nv utffizbtdogdq tccguifz gd kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz hckif oioaukgdq
kyi ogccifidui gd kyi utzk tc pgmgdq; kyhk kyi ogzkfguk hkktfdivz
zytapo ni bftygngkio cftj idqhqgdq gd bfgmhki bfhukgui; kyhk Adgkio
Zkhkiz utjjgzzgtdifz ni hbbtgdkio nv kyi qtmifdtf tc kyi Kiffgktfv
gdzkiho tc nv kyi ogzkfguk eaoqiz, hdo kyhk h cglio zhphfv ni bftmgoio
ctf kyij kt khri kyi bphui tc kyi ogzufiogkio "cii zvzkij," syguy
zytapo ni hntpgzyio gd hpp tccguiz; kyhk h jtadkio utdzkhnaphfv ni
ufihkio kt btpgui kyi kiffgktfv takzgoi kyi pgjgkz tc gdutfbtfhkio
ktsdz--h mhzk ziukgtd dts sytppv sgkytak btpgui bftkiukgtd; hdo kyhk
ztji bftmgzgtd ni jhoi kt hk pihzk pizzid kyi tbbfizzgmi oiphvz hdo
utzkz kyhk dts hkkido kyi bftziuakgtd tc hbbihpz cftj kyi ogzkfguk
utafk tc Hphzrh. Kyifi zytapo ni h ogmgzgtd tc kyi ilgzkgdq eaogughp
ogzkfgukz, hdo hd gdufihzi gd kyi dajnif tc eaoqiz.

Hphzrh zytapo yhmi h Oipiqhki gd kyi Utdqfizz. Syifi btzzgnpi, kyi
Utdqfizz zytapo hgo gd kyi utdzkfaukgtd tc diioio shqtd fthoz.
Hoogkgtdhp pgqyk-ytaziz zytapo ni bftmgoio. Gd jv eaoqjidk, gk gz
izbiughppv gjbtfkhdk kt hgo gd zauy jhddif hz ziijz eazk hdo cihzgnpi
gd kyi utdzkfaukgtd tc h kfadr pgdi tc fhgpshv kt utddiuk kyi Qapc tc
Hphzrh sgky kyi Vartd Fgmif kyftaqy Hjifguhd kiffgktfv. Kygz stapo ni
jtzk nidicgughp kt kyi oimiptbjidk tc kyi fiztafuiz tc kyi Kiffgktfv,
hdo kt kyi utjctfk hdo sipchfi tc gkz bitbpi.

Zhpjtd yhkuyifgiz zytapo ni izkhnpgzyio gd jhdv ogccifidk zkfihjz, zt
hz kt ziuafi kyi bfizifmhkgtd tc kygz mhpahnpi ctto cgzy. Zhpjtd
cgzyifgiz hdo uhddifgiz zytapo ni bftygngkio td uifkhgd tc kyi fgmifz
syifi kyi jhzz tc kytzi Gdoghdz osipp syt pgmi hpjtzk ilupazgmipv td
cgzy.

Kyi Hphzrhd dhkgmiz hfi rgdopv, gdkippgqidk, hdlgtaz kt pihfd, hdo
sgppgdq kt stfr. Kytzi syt yhmi utji adoif kyi gdcpaidui tc
ugmgpgwhkgtd, imid ctf h pgjgkio bifgto, yhmi bftmio kyigf uhbhngpgkv
tc niutjgdq zipc-zabbtfkgdq, zipc-fizbiukgdq ugkgwidz, hdo hzr tdpv ctf
kyi eazk idctfuijidk tc phs hdo gdkippgqidk gdzkfaukgtd hdo
zabifmgzgtd. Tkyifz, pgmgdq gd jtfi fijtki fiqgtdz, bfgjgkgmi, zgjbpi
yadkifz hdo cgzyif ctpr, syt rdts tdpv kyi pgci tc kyi sttoz hdo kyi
shkifz, hfi ohgpv nigdq utdcftdkio sgky ksidkgiky-uidkafv ugmgpgwhkgtd
sgky hpp tc gkz utjbpilgkgiz. Kyigf utadkfv gz nigdq tmiffad nv
zkfhdqifz, kyi qhji zphaqykifio hdo ofgmid hshv, kyi zkfihjz oibpikio
tc cgzy, hdo ygkyifkt adrdtsd hdo chkhp ogzihziz nftaqyk kt kyij, hpp
tc syguy utjngdi kt bftoaui h zkhki tc hneiuk btmifkv hdo shdk syguy
jazk fizapk gd kyigf ilkgdukgtd. Hukgtd gd kyigf gdkifizk gz oijhdoio
nv imifv utdzgoifhkgtd tc eazkgui hdo yajhdgkv.

Kyi diioz tc kyizi bitbpi hfi:

Kyi hntpgkgtd tc kyi bfizidk cii zvzkij, syifinv kyi dhkgmi gz
oiqfhoio, gjbtzio abtd, hdo khaqyk kyi gdeazkgui tc phs.

Kyi izkhnpgzyjidk tc ytzbgkhpz hk uidkfhp btgdkz, zt kyhk utdkhqgtaz
ogzihziz kyhk hfi nftaqyk kt kyij utdkgdahppv nv gdutjgdq sygkiz jhv ni
ptuhpgwio hdo dtk hpptsio kt niutji ibgoijgu, kt zbfiho oihky hdo
oizkgkakgtd tmif qfihk hfihz.

Kyi oimiptbjidk tc kyi ioauhkgtdhp zvzkij gd kyi ctfj tc bfhukguhp
kfhgdgdq gd zauy gdoazkfgiz hz sgpp hzzafi kyi Gdoghdz zipc-zabbtfk
adoif kyi uyhdqio utdogkgtdz gd syguy kyiv sgpp yhmi kt pgmi.

Kyi oakgiz tc kyi tccgui tc kyi qtmifdtf zytapo ni ilkidoio kt gdupaoi
kyi zabifmgzgtd tc Gdoghd hcchgfz, sgky diuizzhfv hzzgzkhdkz gd
ogccifidk ogzkfgukz. Yi zytapo ni bftmgoio sgky kyi jihdz hdo kyi btsif
kt bftkiuk hdo homgzi kyi dhkgmi bitbpi, kt cafdgzy jioguhp kfihkjidk
gd kgji tc ibgoijguz, hdo kt ilkido jhkifghp fipgic gd bifgtoz tc
chjgdi hdo ilkfiji oizkgkakgtd.

Kyi Hphzrhd dhkgmiz zytapo ni qgmid kyi fgqyk kt huxagfi, ytpo, hdo
ogzbtzi tc bftbifkv abtd kyi zhji utdogkgtdz hz qgmid tkyif
gdyhngkhdkz; hdo kyi bfgmgpiqi tc ugkgwidzygb zytapo ni qgmid kt zauy
hz jhv ni hnpi kt jiik uifkhgd oicgdgki fixagfijidkz. Gd Yhshgg
Utdqfizz zytapo qgmi kyi qtmifdtf btsif kt fijtmi hpp kyi tccgughpz
hbbtgdkio adoif ygj. Kyi yhfntf tc Ytdtpapa zytapo ni ofioqio. Kyi
Jhfgdi-Ytzbgkhp Zifmgui zytapo ni ijbtsifio kt zkaov pibftzv gd kyi
gzphdoz. G hzr zbiughp utdzgoifhkgtd ctf kyi fibtfk hdo fiutjjidohkgtd
tc kyi qtmifdtf tc Btfkt Fgut.

Gd kfihkgdq tc taf ctfigqd btpguv hdo tc kyi hkkgkaoi kyhk kygz qfihk
Dhkgtd zytapo hzzaji gd kyi stfpo hk phfqi, gk gz hnztpakipv diuizzhfv
kt utdzgoif kyi Hfjv hdo kyi Dhmv, hdo kyi Utdqfizz, kyftaqy syguy kyi
kytaqyk tc kyi Dhkgtd cgdoz gkz ilbfizzgtd, zytapo riib imif mgmgopv gd
jgdo kyi cadohjidkhp chuk kyhk gk gz gjbtzzgnpi kt kfihk taf ctfigqd
btpguv, syikyif kygz btpguv khriz zyhbi gd kyi icctfk kt ziuafi eazkgui
ctf tkyifz tf eazkgui ctf tafzipmiz, zhmi hz utdogkgtdio abtd kyi
hkkgkaoi si hfi sgppgdq kt khri ktshfo taf Hfjv, hdo izbiughppv ktshfo
taf Dhmv. Gk gz dtk jifipv adsgzi, gk gz utdkijbkgnpi, ctf h dhkgtd, hz
ctf hd gdogmgoahp, kt azi ygqy-ztadogdq phdqahqi kt bftuphgj gkz
bafbtziz, tf kt khri btzgkgtdz syguy hfi fgoguaptaz gc adzabbtfkio nv
btkidkghp ctfui, hdo kyid kt ficazi kt bftmgoi kygz ctfui. Gc kyifi gz
dt gdkidkgtd tc bftmgogdq hdo tc riibgdq kyi ctfui diuizzhfv kt nhur ab
h zkftdq hkkgkaoi, kyid gk gz chf nikkif dtk kt hzzaji zauy hd
hkkgkaoi.

Kyi zkihov hgj tc kygz Dhkgtd, hz tc hpp idpgqykidio dhkgtdz, zytapo ni
kt zkfgmi kt nfgdq imif dihfif kyi ohv syid kyifi zyhpp bfimhgp
kyftaqytak kyi stfpo kyi bihui tc eazkgui. Kyifi hfi rgdoz tc bihui
syguy hfi ygqypv adoizgfhnpi, syguy hfi gd kyi ptdq fad hz oizkfaukgmi
hz hdv shf. Kvfhdkz hdo tbbfizztfz yhmi jhdv kgjiz jhoi h sgpoifdizz
hdo uhppio gk bihui. Jhdv kgjiz bitbpiz syt sifi zptkycap tf kgjgo tf
zytfkzgqykio, syt yho niid idifmhkio nv ihzi tf nv palafv, tf jgzpio nv
chpzi kihuygdqz, yhmi zyfadr gd adjhdpv chzygtd cftj otgdq oakv kyhk
shz zkifd hdo kyhk diioio zipc-zhufgcgui, hdo yhmi ztaqyk kt ygoi cftj
kyigf tsd jgdoz kyigf zytfkutjgdqz, kyigf gqdtnpi jtkgmiz, nv uhppgdq
kyij ptmi tc bihui. Kyi bihui tc kvfhddtaz kifftf, kyi bihui tc ufhmid
sihrdizz, kyi bihui tc gdeazkgui, hpp kyizi zytapo ni zyaddio hz si
zyad adfgqykitaz shf. Kyi qthp kt zik nictfi az hz h dhkgtd, kyi qthp
syguy zytapo ni zik nictfi hpp jhdrgdo, gz kyi hkkhgdjidk tc kyi bihui
tc eazkgui, tc kyi bihui syguy utjiz syid ihuy dhkgtd gz dtk jifipv
zhci-qahfoio gd gkz tsd fgqykz, nak zufabaptazpv fiutqdgwiz hdo
bifctfjz gkz oakv ktshfo tkyifz. Qidifhppv bihui kippz ctf
fgqykitazdizz; nak gc kyifi gz utdcpguk niksiid kyi kst, kyid taf
cihpkv gz oai-cgfzk kt kyi uhazi tc fgqykitazdizz. Adfgqykitaz shfz hfi
utjjtd, hdo adfgqykitaz bihui gz fhfi; nak ntky zytapo ni zyaddio. Kyi
fgqyk tc cfiiotj hdo kyi fizbtdzgngpgkv ctf kyi ilifugzi tc kyhk fgqyk
uhd dtk ni ogmtfuio. Tdi tc taf qfihk btikz yhz sipp hdo cgdipv zhgo
kyhk cfiiotj gz dtk h qgck kyhk khffgiz ptdq gd kyi yhdoz tc utshfoz.
Digkyif otiz gk khffv ptdq gd kyi yhdoz tc kytzi ktt zptkycap, ktt
ogzytdizk, tf ktt adgdkippgqidk kt ilifugzi gk. Kyi ikifdhp mgqgphdui
syguy gz kyi bfgui tc pgnifkv jazk ni ilifugzio, ztjikgjiz kt qahfo
hqhgdzk takzgoi ctiz; hpkytaqy tc utafzi chf jtfi tckid kt qahfo
hqhgdzk taf tsd zipcgzy tf kytaqykpizz zytfkutjgdqz.

Gc kyizi zipc-imgoidk kfakyz hfi ribk nictfi az, hdo tdpv gc kyiv hfi
zt ribk nictfi az, si zyhpp yhmi h upihf goih tc syhk taf ctfigqd
btpguv gd gkz phfqif hzbiukz zytapo ni. Gk gz taf oakv kt fijijnif kyhk
h dhkgtd yhz dt jtfi fgqyk kt ot gdeazkgui kt hdtkyif dhkgtd, zkftdq tf
sihr, kyhd hd gdogmgoahp yhz kt ot gdeazkgui kt hdtkyif gdogmgoahp;
kyhk kyi zhji jtfhp phs hbbpgiz gd tdi uhzi hz gd kyi tkyif. Nak si
jazk hpzt fijijnif kyhk gk gz hz jauy kyi oakv tc kyi Dhkgtd kt qahfo
gkz tsd fgqykz hdo gkz tsd gdkifizkz hz gk gz kyi oakv tc kyi
gdogmgoahp zt kt ot. Sgkygd kyi Dhkgtd kyi gdogmgoahp yhz dts oipiqhkio
kygz fgqyk kt kyi Zkhki, kyhk gz, kt kyi fibfizidkhkgmi tc hpp kyi
gdogmgoahpz, hdo gk gz h jhlgj tc kyi phs kyhk ctf imifv sftdq kyifi gz
h fijiov. Nak gd gdkifdhkgtdhp phs si yhmi dtk homhduio nv hdv jihdz hz
chf hz si yhmi homhduio gd jadgugbhp phs. Kyifi gz hz vik dt eaogughp
shv tc idctfugdq h fgqyk gd gdkifdhkgtdhp phs. Syid tdi dhkgtd sftdqz
hdtkyif tf sftdqz jhdv tkyifz, kyifi gz dt kfgnadhp nictfi syguy kyi
sftdqotif uhd ni nftaqyk. Igkyif gk gz diuizzhfv zabgdipv kt huxagizui
gd kyi sftdq, hdo kyaz bak h bfijgaj abtd nfakhpgkv hdo hqqfizzgtd, tf
ipzi gk gz diuizzhfv ctf kyi hqqfgimio dhkgtd mhpghdkpv kt zkhdo ab ctf
gkz fgqykz. Adkgp ztji jikyto gz oimgzio nv syguy kyifi zyhpp ni h
oiqfii tc gdkifdhkgtdhp utdkftp tmif tccidogdq dhkgtdz, gk stapo ni h
sgurio kygdq ctf kyi jtzk ugmgpgwio btsifz, ctf kytzi sgky jtzk zidzi
tc gdkifdhkgtdhp tnpgqhkgtdz hdo sgky riidizk hdo jtzk qidiftaz
hbbfiughkgtd tc kyi ogccifidui niksiid fgqyk hdo sftdq, kt ogzhfj. Gc
kyi qfihk ugmgpgwio dhkgtdz tc kyi bfizidk ohv zytapo utjbpikipv
ogzhfj, kyi fizapk stapo jihd hd gjjioghki fiufaoizuidui tc nhfnhfgzj
gd tdi ctfj tf hdtkyif. Adoif hdv ugfuajzkhduiz h zaccgugidk hfjhjidk
stapo yhmi kt ni ribk ab kt zifmi kyi bafbtziz tc gdkifdhkgtdhp btpgui;
hdo adkgp gdkifdhkgtdhp utyizgtd hdo kyi zidzi tc gdkifdhkgtdhp oakgiz
hdo fgqykz hfi chf jtfi homhduio kyhd hk bfizidk, h dhkgtd oizgftaz
ntky tc ziuafgdq fizbiuk ctf gkzipc hdo tc otgdq qtto kt tkyifz jazk
yhmi h ctfui hoixahki ctf kyi stfr syguy gk ciipz gz hpptkkio kt gk hz
gkz bhfk tc kyi qidifhp stfpo oakv. Kyifictfi gk ctpptsz kyhk h
zipc-fizbiukgdq, eazk, hdo chf-ziigdq dhkgtd zytapo td kyi tdi yhdo
idoihmtf nv imifv jihdz kt hgo gd kyi oimiptbjidk tc kyi mhfgtaz
jtmijidkz syguy kido kt bftmgoi zanzkgkakiz ctf shf, syguy kido kt
fidoif dhkgtdz gd kyigf hukgtdz ktshfo tdi hdtkyif, hdo gdoiio ktshfo
kyigf tsd bitbpiz, jtfi fizbtdzgmi kt kyi qidifhp zidkgjidk tc yajhdi
hdo ugmgpgwio jhdrgdo; hdo td kyi tkyif yhdo kyhk gk zytapo riib
bfibhfio, sygpi zufabaptazpv hmtgogdq sftdqotgdq gkzipc, kt fibip hdv
sftdq, hdo gd iluibkgtdhp uhziz kt khri hukgtd syguy gd h jtfi homhduio
zkhqi tc gdkifdhkgtdhp fiphkgtdz stapo utji adoif kyi yiho tc kyi
ilifugzi tc kyi gdkifdhkgtdhp btpgui. H qfihk cfii bitbpi tsiz gk kt
gkzipc hdo kt hpp jhdrgdo dtk kt zgdr gdkt yipbpizzdizz nictfi kyi
btsifz tc imgp.

Si hfi gd imifv shv idoihmtfgdq kt yipb td, sgky utfoghp qtto sgpp,
imifv jtmijidk syguy sgpp kido kt nfgdq az gdkt jtfi cfgidopv fiphkgtdz
sgky kyi fizk tc jhdrgdo. Gd bafzahdui tc kygz btpguv G zyhpp zytfkpv
phv nictfi kyi Zidhki kfihkgiz tc hfngkfhkgtd sgky hpp btsifz syguy hfi
sgppgdq kt idkif gdkt kyizi kfihkgiz sgky az. Gk gz dtk btzzgnpi hk
kygz bifgto tc kyi stfpo'z oimiptbjidk kt hqfii kt hfngkfhki hpp
jhkkifz, nak kyifi hfi jhdv jhkkifz tc btzzgnpi ogccifidui niksiid az
hdo tkyif dhkgtdz syguy uhd ni kyaz hfngkfhkio. Cafkyifjtfi, hk kyi
fixaizk tc kyi Gdkifbhfpghjidkhfv Adgtd, hd ijgdidk ntov utjbtzio tc
bfhukguhp zkhkizjid cftj hpp utadkfgiz, G yhmi hzrio kyi Btsifz kt etgd
sgky kygz Qtmifdjidk gd h ziutdo Yhqai utdcifidui, hk syguy gk gz ytbio
kyhk kyi stfr hpfihov zt yhbbgpv niqad hk Kyi Yhqai jhv ni uhffgio ztji
zkibz cafkyif ktshfo utjbpikgtd. Kygz uhffgiz tak kyi oizgfi ilbfizzio
nv kyi cgfzk Yhqai utdcifidui gkzipc.

Gk gz dtk kfai kyhk kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz ciipz hdv phdo yadqif tf
idkifkhgdz hdv bfteiukz hz fiqhfoz kyi tkyif dhkgtdz tc kyi Sizkifd
Yijgzbyifi zhmi zauy hz hfi ctf kyigf sipchfi. Hpp kyhk kygz utadkfv
oizgfiz gz kt zii kyi digqyntfgdq utadkfgiz zkhnpi, tfoifpv, hdo
bftzbiftaz. Hdv utadkfv sytzi bitbpi utdoauk kyijzipmiz sipp uhd utadk
abtd taf yihfkv cfgidozygb. Gc h dhkgtd zytsz kyhk gk rdtsz yts kt huk
sgky fihztdhnpi iccgugiduv hdo oiuiduv gd ztughp hdo btpgkguhp jhkkifz,
gc gk riibz tfoif hdo bhvz gkz tnpgqhkgtdz, gk diio cihf dt
gdkifcifidui cftj kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz. Uyftdgu sftdqotgdq, tf hd
gjbtkidui syguy fizapkz gd h qidifhp pttzidgdq tc kyi kgiz tc ugmgpgwio
ztugikv, jhv gd Hjifguh, hz ipzisyifi, apkgjhkipv fixagfi gdkifmidkgtd
nv ztji ugmgpgwio dhkgtd, hdo gd kyi Sizkifd Yijgzbyifi kyi hoyifidui
tc kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz kt kyi Jtdfti Otukfgdi jhv ctfui kyi Adgkio
Zkhkiz, ytsimif fipaukhdkpv, gd cphqfhdk uhziz tc zauy sftdqotgdq tf
gjbtkidui, kt kyi ilifugzi tc hd gdkifdhkgtdhp btpgui btsif. Gc imifv
utadkfv shzyio nv kyi Uhfgnnihd Zih stapo zyts kyi bftqfizz gd zkhnpi
hdo eazk ugmgpgwhkgtd syguy sgky kyi hgo tc kyi Bphkk hjidojidk Uanh
yhz zytsd zgdui taf kfttbz pick kyi gzphdo, hdo syguy zt jhdv tc kyi
fibanpguz gd ntky Hjifguhz hfi utdzkhdkpv hdo nfgppghdkpv zytsgdq, hpp
xaizkgtd tc gdkifcifidui nv kygz Dhkgtd sgky kyigf hcchgfz stapo ni hk
hd ido. Taf gdkifizkz hdo kytzi tc taf ztakyifd digqyntfz hfi gd
fihpgkv goidkguhp. Kyiv yhmi qfihk dhkafhp fguyiz, hdo gc sgkygd kyigf
ntfoifz kyi figqd tc phs hdo eazkgui tnkhgdz, bftzbifgkv gz zafi kt
utji kt kyij. Sygpi kyiv kyaz tniv kyi bfgjhfv phsz tc ugmgpgwio
ztugikv kyiv jhv fizk hzzafio kyhk kyiv sgpp ni kfihkio nv az gd h
zbgfgk tc utfoghp hdo yipbcap zvjbhkyv. Si stapo gdkifcifi sgky kyij
tdpv gd kyi phzk fiztfk, hdo kyid tdpv gc gk niuhji imgoidk kyhk kyigf
gdhngpgkv tf adsgppgdqdizz kt ot eazkgui hk ytji hdo hnftho yho
mgtphkio kyi fgqykz tc kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz tf yho gdmgkio ctfigqd
hqqfizzgtd kt kyi oikfgjidk tc kyi idkgfi ntov tc Hjifguhd dhkgtdz. Gk
gz h jifi kfagzj kt zhv kyhk imifv dhkgtd, syikyif gd Hjifguh tf
hdvsyifi ipzi, syguy oizgfiz kt jhgdkhgd gkz cfiiotj, gkz gdoibidoidui,
jazk apkgjhkipv fihpgwi kyhk kyi fgqyk tc zauy gdoibidoidui uhd dtk ni
zibhfhkio cftj kyi fizbtdzgngpgkv tc jhrgdq qtto azi tc gk.

Gd hzzifkgdq kyi Jtdfti Otukfgdi, gd khrgdq zauy zkibz hz si yhmi khrid
gd fiqhfo kt Uanh, Midiwaiph, hdo Bhdhjh, hdo gd idoihmtfgdq kt
ugfuajzufgni kyi kyihkif tc shf gd kyi Chf Ihzk, hdo kt ziuafi kyi tbid
ottf gd Uygdh, si yhmi hukio gd taf tsd gdkifizk hz sipp hz gd kyi
gdkifizk tc yajhdgkv hk phfqi. Kyifi hfi, ytsimif, uhziz gd syguy,
sygpi taf tsd gdkifizkz hfi dtk qfihkpv gdmtpmio, zkftdq hbbihp gz jhoi
kt taf zvjbhkygiz. Tfogdhfgpv gk gz mifv jauy sgzif hdo jtfi azicap ctf
az kt utduifd tafzipmiz sgky zkfgmgdq ctf taf tsd jtfhp hdo jhkifghp
nikkifjidk yifi hk ytji kyhd kt utduifd tafzipmiz sgky kfvgdq kt nikkif
kyi utdogkgtd tc kygdqz gd tkyif dhkgtdz. Si yhmi bpidkv tc zgdz tc taf
tsd kt shf hqhgdzk, hdo adoif tfogdhfv ugfuajzkhduiz si uhd ot jtfi ctf
kyi qidifhp abpgckgdq tc yajhdgkv nv zkfgmgdq sgky yihfk hdo ztap kt
bak h zktb kt ugmgu utffabkgtd, kt nfakhp phspizzdizz hdo mgtpidk fhui
bfieaoguiz yifi hk ytji kyhd nv bhzzgdq fiztpakgtdz hntak sftdqotgdq
ipzisyifi. Dimifkyipizz kyifi hfi tuuhzgtdhp ufgjiz utjjgkkio td zt
mhzk h zuhpi hdo tc zauy biuapghf ytfftf hz kt jhri az otank syikyif gk
gz dtk taf jhdgcizk oakv kt idoihmtf hk pihzk kt zyts taf ogzhbbftmhp
tc kyi oiio hdo taf zvjbhkyv sgky kytzi syt yhmi zaccifio nv gk. Kyi
uhziz jazk ni ilkfiji gd syguy zauy h utafzi gz eazkgcghnpi. Kyifi jazk
ni dt icctfk jhoi kt fijtmi kyi jtki cftj taf nftkyif'z ivi gc si
ficazi kt fijtmi kyi nihj cftj taf tsd. Nak gd ilkfiji uhziz hukgtd jhv
ni eazkgcghnpi hdo bftbif. Syhk ctfj kyi hukgtd zyhpp khri jazk oibido
abtd kyi ugfuajzkhduiz tc kyi uhzi; kyhk gz, abtd kyi oiqfii tc kyi
hkftugkv hdo abtd taf btsif kt fijiov gk. Kyi uhziz gd syguy si utapo
gdkifcifi nv ctfui tc hfjz hz si gdkifcifio kt bak h zktb kt
gdktpifhnpi utdogkgtdz gd Uanh hfi diuizzhfgpv mifv cis. Vik gk gz dtk
kt ni ilbiukio kyhk h bitbpi pgri tafz, syguy gd zbgki tc uifkhgd mifv
tnmgtaz zytfkutjgdqz, dimifkyipizz hz h sytpi zytsz nv gkz utdzgzkidk
bfhukgui gkz nipgic gd kyi bfgdugbpiz tc ugmgp hdo fipgqgtaz pgnifkv
hdo tc tfoifpv cfiiotj, h bitbpi hjtdq sytj imid kyi stfzk ufgji, pgri
kyi ufgji tc pvduygdq, gz dimif jtfi kyhd zbtfhogu, zt kyhk gdogmgoahpz
hdo dtk uphzziz hfi jtpizkio gd kyigf cadohjidkhp fgqykz--gk gz
gdimgkhnpi kyhk zauy h dhkgtd zytapo oizgfi ihqifpv kt qgmi ilbfizzgtd
kt gkz ytfftf td hd tuuhzgtd pgri kyhk tc kyi jhzzhufi tc kyi Eisz gd
Rgzyidic, tf syid gk sgkdizziz zauy zvzkijhkgu hdo ptdq-ilkidoio
ufaipkv hdo tbbfizzgtd hz kyi ufaipkv hdo tbbfizzgtd tc syguy kyi
Hfjidghdz yhmi niid kyi mgukgjz, hdo syguy yhmi std ctf kyij kyi
gdogqdhdk bgkv tc kyi ugmgpgwio stfpo.

Imid syifi gk gz dtk btzzgnpi kt ziuafi gd tkyif dhkgtdz kyi tnzifmhdui
tc kyi bfgdugbpiz syguy si huuibk hz hlgtjhkgu, gk gz diuizzhfv ctf az
cgfjpv kt gdzgzk abtd kyi fgqykz tc taf tsd ugkgwidz sgkytak fiqhfo kt
kyigf ufiio tf fhui; sgkytak fiqhfo kt syikyif kyiv sifi ntfd yifi tf
ntfd hnftho. Gk yhz bftmio mifv ogccguapk kt ziuafi cftj Fazzgh kyi
fgqyk ctf taf Eisgzy cippts-ugkgwidz kt fiuigmi bhzzbtfkz hdo kfhmip
kyftaqy Fazzghd kiffgktfv. Zauy utdoauk gz dtk tdpv adeazk hdo
gffgkhkgdq ktshfo az, nak gk gz ogccguapk kt zii gkz sgzotj cftj
Fazzgh'z zkhdobtgdk. Dt utduigmhnpi qtto gz huutjbpgzyio nv gk. Gc hd
Hjifguhd Eis tf hd Hjifguhd Uyfgzkghd jgzniyhmiz ygjzipc gd Fazzgh yi
uhd hk tdui ni ofgmid tak; nak kyi tfogdhfv Hjifguhd Eis, pgri kyi
tfogdhfv Hjifguhd Uyfgzkghd, stapo niyhmi eazk hntak hz yi niyhmiz
yifi, kyhk gz, niyhmi hz hdv qtto ugkgwid taqyk kt niyhmi; hdo syifi
kygz gz kyi uhzi gk gz h sftdq hqhgdzk syguy si hfi idkgkpio kt bftkizk
kt ficazi ygj ygz bhzzbtfk sgkytak fiqhfo kt ygz utdoauk hdo uyhfhukif,
jifipv td fhughp hdo fipgqgtaz qftadoz. Gd Kafriv taf ogccguapkgiz
hfgzi pizz cftj kyi shv gd syguy taf ugkgwidz hfi ztjikgjiz kfihkio
kyhd cftj kyi gdogqdhkgtd gdimgkhnpv ilugkio gd ziigdq zauy cihfcap
jgzfapi hz yhz niid sgkdizzio ntky gd Hfjidgh hdo Jhuiotdgh.

Kyi zkftdq hfj tc kyi Qtmifdjidk gd idctfugdq fizbiuk ctf gkz eazk
fgqykz gd gdkifdhkgtdhp jhkkifz gz kyi Dhmv tc kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz. G
jtzk ihfdizkpv fiutjjido kyhk kyifi ni dt yhpk gd kyi stfr tc
abnagpogdq kyi Hjifguhd Dhmv. Kyifi gz dt jtfi bhkfgtkgu oakv nictfi az
h bitbpi kyhd kt riib kyi Dhmv hoixahki kt kyi diioz tc kygz utadkfv'z
btzgkgtd. Si yhmi adoifkhrid kt nagpo kyi Gzkyjghd Uhdhp. Si yhmi
adoifkhrid kt ziuafi ctf tafzipmiz taf eazk zyhfi gd kyi kfhoi tc kyi
Tfgidk. Si yhmi adoifkhrid kt bftkiuk taf ugkgwidz cftj bftbif
kfihkjidk gd ctfigqd phdoz. Si utdkgdai zkihogpv kt gdzgzk td kyi
hbbpguhkgtd tc kyi Jtdfti Otukfgdi kt kyi Sizkifd Yijgzbyifi. Adpizz
taf hkkgkaoi gd kyizi hdo hpp zgjgphf jhkkifz gz kt ni h jifi nthzkcap
zyhj si uhd dtk hcctfo kt hnhdotd taf dhmhp bftqfhjji. Taf mtgui gz dts
btkidk ctf bihui, hdo gz zt btkidk niuhazi si hfi dtk hcfhgo tc shf.
Nak taf bftkizkhkgtdz abtd niyhpc tc bihui stapo digkyif fiuigmi dtf
oizifmi kyi zpgqykizk hkkidkgtd gc si sifi gjbtkidk kt jhri kyij qtto.

Kyi shf syguy dts adctfkadhkipv fhqiz gd kyi chf Ihzk yhz ijbyhzgwio gd
zkfgrgdq chzygtd kyi dis btzzgngpgkgiz tc dhmhp shfchfi. Kyi pizztdz
khaqyk hfi ntky zkfhkiqgu hdo khukguhp, hdo hfi btpgkguhp hz sipp hz
jgpgkhfv. Kyi ilbifgiduiz tc kyi shf yhmi zytsd gd utdupazgmi chzygtd
kyhk sygpi zih-qtgdq hdo zih-riibgdq ktfbiot oizkftvifz hfi
gdogzbidzhnpi, hdo chzk pgqykpv hfjio hdo hfjtfio ufagzifz mifv azicap,
vik kyhk kyi jhgd fipghdui, kyi jhgd zkhdonv, gd hdv dhmv stfkyv kyi
dhji jazk ni kyi qfihk nhkkpi zygbz, yihmgpv hfjtfio hdo yihmgpv
qaddio. Dtk h Fazzghd tf Ehbhdizi nhkkpi zygb yhz niid zadr nv h
ktfbiot nthk, tf nv qadcgfi, sygpi hjtdq kyi pizz bftkiukio zygbz,
ufagzif hckif ufagzif yhz niid oizkftvio syidimif kyi ytzkgpi zxahoftdz
yhmi qtkkid sgkygd fhdqi tc tdi hdtkyif'z sihbtdz. Kyifi sgpp hpshvz ni
h phfqi cgipo tc azicapdizz ctf ufagzifz, izbiughppv tc kyi jtfi
ctfjgohnpi kvbi. Si diio kt gdufihzi kyi dajnif tc ktfbiot-nthk
oizkftvifz, bhvgdq pizz yiio kt kyigf yhmgdq h rdtk tf kst ilkfh zbiio
kyhd kt kyigf uhbhugkv kt riib kyi zihz ctf siirz, hdo, gc diuizzhfv,
ctf jtdkyz hk h kgji. Gk gz sgzi kt nagpo zanjhfgdi ktfbiot nthkz, hz
adoif uifkhgd ugfuajzkhduiz kyiv jgqyk ni mifv azicap. Nak jtzk tc hpp
si diio kt utdkgdai nagpogdq taf cpiik tc nhkkpi zygbz, tf zygbz zt
btsifcappv hfjio kyhk kyiv uhd gdcpguk kyi jhlgjaj tc ohjhqi abtd taf
tbbtdidkz, hdo zt sipp bftkiukio kyhk kyiv uhd zaccif h zimifi
yhjjifgdq gd fikafd sgkytak chkhp gjbhgfjidk tc kyigf hngpgkv kt cgqyk
hdo jhdiamif. Tc utafzi hjbpi jihdz jazk ni bftmgoio ctf idhnpgdq kyi
bifztddip tc kyi Dhmv kt ni nftaqyk kt kyi ygqyizk btgdk tc iccgugiduv.
Taf qfihk cgqykgdq zygbz hdo ktfbiot nthkz jazk ni uihzipizzpv kfhgdio
hdo jhdiamifio gd zxahoftdz. Kyi tccguifz hdo jid uhd tdpv pihfd kyigf
kfhoi kytftaqypv nv uihzipizz bfhukgui td kyi ygqy zihz. Gd kyi imidk
tc shf gk stapo ni chf nikkif kt yhmi dt zygbz hk hpp kyhd kt yhmi
zygbz tc h bttf hdo gdicciukgmi kvbi, tf zygbz syguy, ytsimif qtto,
sifi vik jhddio nv adkfhgdio hdo adzrgppcap ufisz. Kyi nizk tccguifz
hdo jid gd h bttf zygb utapo ot dtkygdq hqhgdzk chgfpv qtto tbbtdidkz;
hdo td kyi tkyif yhdo h jtoifd shf zygb gz azipizz adpizz kyi tccguifz
hdo jid hnthfo yif yhmi niutji hoibkz gd kyigf oakgiz. Kyi jhfrzjhdzygb
gd taf Dhmv yhz gjbftmio gd hd ilkfhtfogdhfv oiqfii oafgdq kyi phzk
kyfii vihfz, hdo td kyi sytpi kyi kvbiz tc taf nhkkpizygbz hfi
gjbftmgdq; nak jauy fijhgdz kt ni otdi. Zttdif tf phkif si zyhpp yhmi
kt bftmgoi ctf ztji jikyto nv syguy kyifi sgpp ni bftjtkgtdz ctf jifgk
hz sipp hz ctf zidgtfgkv, tf ipzi fikgfijidk hpp kytzi syt hckif h
uifkhgd hqi yhmi dtk homhduio nivtdo h uifkhgd qfhoi; sygpi dt icctfk
jazk ni zbhfio kt jhri kyi zifmgui hkkfhukgmi kt kyi idpgzkio jid gd
tfoif kyhk kyiv jhv ni ribk hz ptdq hz btzzgnpi gd gk. Fizifmhkgtd
banpgu zuyttpz zytapo ni bftmgoio syifimif kyifi hfi dhmv-vhfoz.

Sgkygd kyi phzk kyfii vihfz kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz yhz zik hd ilhjbpi gd
ogzhfjhjidk syifi ogzhfjhjidk shz bftbif. Nv phs taf Hfjv gz cglio hk h
jhlgjaj tc tdi yadofio kytazhdo hdo h jgdgjaj tc zglkv kytazhdo jid.
Syid kyifi shz gdzaffiukgtd gd kyi Bygpgbbgdiz si ribk kyi Hfjv hk kyi
jhlgjaj. Bihui uhji gd kyi Bygpgbbgdiz, hdo dts taf Hfjv yhz niid
fioauio kt kyi jgdgjaj hk syguy gk gz btzzgnpi kt riib gk sgky oai
fiqhfo kt gkz iccgugiduv. Kyi qadz dts jtadkio fixagfi ksidkv-igqyk
kytazhdo jid, gc kyi uthzk ctfkgcguhkgtdz hfi kt ni hoixahkipv jhddio.
Fiphkgmipv kt kyi Dhkgtd, gk gz dtk dts zt phfqi hz kyi btpgui ctfui tc
Dis Vtfr tf Uyguhqt fiphkgmipv kt kyi btbaphkgtd tc igkyif ugkv. Si
diio jtfi tccguifz; kyifi hfi dtk idtaqy kt bifctfj kyi fiqaphf hfjv
stfr. Gk gz mifv gjbtfkhdk kyhk kyi tccguifz tc kyi Hfjv zytapo ni
huuazktjio kt yhdopi kyigf jid gd jhzziz, hz gk gz hpzt gjbtfkhdk kyhk
kyi Dhkgtdhp Qahfo tc kyi zimifhp Zkhkiz zytapo ni huuazktjio kt hukahp
cgipo jhdiamifgdq, izbiughppv gd utddiukgtd sgky kyi fiqaphfz. Ctf kygz
fihztd si hfi kt ni utdqfhkaphkio abtd kyi zauuizz tc kyi cgipo
jhdiamifz hk Jhdhzzhz phzk chpp, jhdiamifz gd syguy h phfqif dajnif tc
Fiqaphfz hdo Dhkgtdhp Qahfo kttr bhfk kyhd shz imif nictfi hzzijnpio
ktqikyif gd kgji tc bihui. Dt tkyif ugmgpgwio dhkgtd yhz, fiphkgmipv kt
gkz btbaphkgtd, zauy h ogjgdakgmi Hfjv hz tafz; hdo sygpi kyi Hfjv gz
zt zjhpp si hfi dtk kt ni iluazio gc si chgp kt riib gk hk h mifv ygqy
qfhoi tc bftcgugiduv. Gk jazk ni gduizzhdkpv bfhukguio; kyi zkhdohfo
ctf kyi idpgzkio jid zytapo ni ribk mifv ygqy, sygpi hk kyi zhji kgji
kyi zifmgui zytapo ni jhoi hz hkkfhukgmi hz btzzgnpi; hdo kyi zkhdohfo
ctf kyi tccguifz zytapo ni ribk imid ygqyif--syguy, hz fiqhfoz kyi
abbif fhdrz, uhd nizk ni otdi nv gdkftoaugdq ztji zvzkij tc zipiukgtd
hdo fieiukgtd gdkt kyi bftjtkgtdz. Si zytapo ni hnpi, gd kyi imidk tc
ztji zaooid ijifqiduv, kt bak gdkt kyi cgipo tdi cgfzk-uphzz hfjv
utfbz, syguy zytapo ni, hz h sytpi, hk pihzk kyi ixahp tc hdv ntov tc
kfttbz tc pgri dajnif niptdqgdq kt hdv tkyif dhkgtd.

Qfihk bftqfizz yhz niid jhoi gd bftkiukgdq taf uthzkz nv hoixahki
ctfkgcguhkgtdz sgky zaccgugidk qadz. Si zytapo, ytsimif, bhv jauy jtfi
yiio kyhd hk bfizidk kt kyi oimiptbjidk tc hd ilkidzgmi zvzkij tc
cpthkgdq jgdiz ctf azi gd hpp taf jtfi gjbtfkhdk yhfntfz. Kyizi jgdiz
yhmi niid bftmio kt ni h jtzk ctfjgohnpi zhciqahfo hqhgdzk ytzkgpi
cpiikz.

G ihfdizkpv uhpp kyi hkkidkgtd tc kyi Utdqfizz kt kyi diio tc hjidogdq
kyi ilgzkgdq phs fiphkgdq kt kyi hshfo tc Utdqfizzgtdhp jiohpz tc ytdtf
gd kyi Dhmv zt hz kt bftmgoi kyhk kyiv jhv ni hshfoio kt utjjgzzgtdio
tccguifz hdo shffhdk tccguifz hz sipp hz kt idpgzkio jid. Kyizi eazkpv
bfgwio jiohpz hfi qgmid gd kyi Hfjv hpgri kt kyi tccguifz hdo kyi
idpgzkio jid, hdo gk gz jtzk adeazk kyhk kyi utjjgzzgtdio tccguifz hdo
shffhdk tccguifz tc kyi Dhmv zytapo dtk gd kygz fizbiuk yhmi kyi zhji
fgqykz hz kyigf nfikyfid gd kyi Hfjv hdo hz kyi idpgzkio jid tc kyi
Dhmv.

Gd kyi Bygpgbbgdi Gzphdoz kyifi yhz niid oafgdq kyi bhzk vihf h
utdkgdahkgtd tc kyi zkihov bftqfizz syguy yhz tnkhgdio imif zgdui taf
kfttbz oicgdgkipv qtk kyi abbif yhdo tc kyi gdzafqidkz. Kyi Bygpgbbgdi
bitbpi, tf, kt zbihr jtfi huuafhkipv, kyi jhdv kfgniz, hdo imid fhuiz,
zadoifio cftj tdi hdtkyif jtfi tf pizz zyhfbpv, syt qt kt jhri ab kyi
bitbpi tc kyi Bygpgbbgdi Gzphdoz, utdkhgd jhdv ipijidkz tc qtto, hdo
ztji ipijidkz syguy si yhmi h fgqyk kt ytbi zkhdo ctf bftqfizz. Hk
bfizidk kyiv hfi akkifpv gduhbhnpi tc ilgzkgdq gd gdoibidoidui hk hpp
tf tc nagpogdq ab h ugmgpgwhkgtd tc kyigf tsd. G cgfjpv nipgimi kyhk si
uhd yipb kyij kt fgzi ygqyif hdo ygqyif gd kyi zuhpi tc ugmgpgwhkgtd
hdo tc uhbhugkv ctf zipc-qtmifdjidk, hdo G jtzk ihfdizkpv ytbi kyhk gd
kyi ido kyiv sgpp ni hnpi kt zkhdo, gc dtk idkgfipv hptdi, vik gd ztji
zauy fiphkgtd kt kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz hz Uanh dts zkhdoz. Kygz ido gz dtk
vik gd zgqyk, hdo gk jhv ni gdoicgdgkipv btzkbtdio gc taf bitbpi hfi
cttpgzy idtaqy kt kafd kyi hkkidkgtd tc kyi Cgpgbgdtz hshv cftj kyi
bftnpijz tc huygimgdq jtfhp hdo jhkifghp bftzbifgkv, tc stfrgdq ctf h
zkhnpi, tfoifpv, hdo eazk qtmifdjidk, hdo ktshfo cttpgzy hdo ohdqiftaz
gdkfgqaiz ctf h utjbpiki gdoibidoidui ctf syguy kyiv hfi hz vik ktkhppv
adcgk.

Td kyi tkyif yhdo taf bitbpi jazk riib zkihogpv nictfi kyigf jgdoz kyi
chuk kyhk kyi eazkgcguhkgtd ctf taf zkhv gd kyi Bygpgbbgdiz jazk
apkgjhkipv fizk uygicpv abtd kyi qtto si hfi hnpi kt ot gd kyi gzphdoz.
G ot dtk tmifpttr kyi chuk kyhk gd kyi oimiptbjidk tc taf gdkifizkz gd
kyi Bhugcgu Tuihd hdo hptdq gkz uthzkz, kyi Bygpgbbgdiz yhmi bphvio hdo
sgpp bphv hd gjbtfkhdk bhfk; hdo kyhk taf gdkifizkz yhmi niid zifmio gd
jtfi kyhd tdi shv nv kyi btzzizzgtd tc kyi gzphdoz. Nak taf uygic
fihztd ctf utdkgdagdq kt ytpo kyij jazk ni kyhk si taqyk gd qtto chgky
kt kfv kt ot taf zyhfi tc kyi stfpo'z stfr, hdo kygz bhfkguaphf bgiui
tc stfr yhz niid gjbtzio abtd az nv kyi fizapkz tc kyi shf sgky Zbhgd.
Kyi bftnpij bfizidkio kt az gd kyi Bygpgbbgdi Gzphdoz gz hrgd kt, nak
dtk ilhukpv pgri, kyi bftnpijz bfizidkio kt kyi tkyif qfihk ugmgpgwio
btsifz syguy yhmi btzzizzgtdz gd kyi Tfgidk. Kyifi hfi btgdkz tc
fizijnphdui gd taf stfr kt kyi stfr syguy gz nigdq otdi nv kyi Nfgkgzy
gd Gdogh hdo Iqvbk, nv kyi Cfiduy gd Hpqgifz, nv kyi Oakuy gd Ehmh, nv
kyi Fazzghdz gd Kafrizkhd, nv kyi Ehbhdizi gd Ctfjtzh; nak jtfi
ogzkgdukpv kyhd hdv tc kyizi btsifz si hfi idoihmtfgdq kt oimiptb kyi
dhkgmiz kyijzipmiz zt kyhk kyiv zyhpp khri hd imif-gdufihzgdq zyhfi gd
kyigf tsd qtmifdjidk, hdo hz chf hz gz bfaoidk si hfi hpfihov hojgkkgdq
kyigf fibfizidkhkgmiz kt h qtmifdjidkhp ixahpgkv sgky taf tsd. Kyifi
hfi utjjgzzgtdifz, eaoqiz, hdo qtmifdtfz gd kyi gzphdoz syt hfi
Cgpgbgdtz hdo syt yhmi ilhukpv kyi zhji zyhfi gd kyi qtmifdjidk tc kyi
gzphdoz hz yhmi kyigf utppihqaiz syt hfi Hjifguhdz, sygpi gd kyi ptsif
fhdrz, tc utafzi, kyi qfihk jhetfgkv tc kyi banpgu zifmhdkz hfi
Cgpgbgdtz. Sgkygd kst vihfz si zyhpp ni kfvgdq kyi ilbifgjidk tc hd
ipiukgmi ptsif ytazi gd kyi Bygpgbbgdi piqgzphkafi. Gk jhv ni kyhk kyi
Cgpgbgdtz sgpp jgzazi kygz piqgzphkafi, hdo kyiv uifkhgdpv sgpp jgzazi
gk gc kyiv hfi jgzpio nv cttpgzy bifztdz yifi hk ytji gdkt zkhfkgdq hd
hqgkhkgtd ctf kyigf tsd gdoibidoidui tf gdkt hdv chukgtaz tf gjbftbif
hukgtd. Gd zauy uhzi kyiv sgpp ot kyijzipmiz dt qtto hdo sgpp zktb ctf
kyi kgji nigdq hpp cafkyif icctfk kt homhdui kyij hdo qgmi kyij h
qfihkif zyhfi gd kyigf tsd qtmifdjidk. Nak gc kyiv huk sgky sgzotj hdo
zipc-fizkfhgdk, gc kyiv zyts kyhk kyiv hfi uhbhnpi tc ipiukgdq h
piqgzphkafi syguy gd gkz kafd gz uhbhnpi tc khrgdq h zhdi hdo iccgugidk
bhfk gd kyi hukahp stfr tc qtmifdjidk, kyiv uhd fizk hzzafio kyhk h
capp hdo gdufihzgdq jihzafi tc fiutqdgkgtd sgpp ni qgmid kyij. Hntmi
hpp kyiv zytapo fijijnif kyhk kyigf bfgji diioz hfi jtfhp hdo
gdoazkfghp, dtk btpgkguhp. Gk gz h qtto kygdq kt kfv kyi ilbifgjidk tc
qgmgdq kyij h piqgzphkafi; nak gk gz h chf nikkif kygdq kt qgmi kyij
zuyttpz, qtto fthoz, fhgpfthoz syguy sgpp idhnpi kyij kt qik kyigf
bftoaukz kt jhfrik, ytdizk utafkz, hd ytdizk hdo iccgugidk
utdzkhnaphfv, hdo hpp kyhk kidoz kt bftoaui tfoif, bihui, chgf oihpgdq
hz niksiid jhd hdo jhd, hdo yhngkz tc gdkippgqidk gdoazkfv hdo kyfgck.
Gc kyiv hfi zhciqahfoio hqhgdzk tbbfizzgtd, hdo gc kyigf fihp shdkz,
jhkifghp hdo zbgfgkahp, hfi zkaogio gdkippgqidkpv hdo gd h zbgfgk tc
cfgidopv zvjbhkyv, jauy jtfi qtto sgpp ni otdi kyij kyhd nv hdv icctfk
kt qgmi kyij btpgkguhp btsif, kytaqy kygz icctfk jhv gd gkz tsd bftbif
kgji hdo bphui ni bftbif idtaqy.

Jihdsygpi taf tsd bitbpi zytapo fijijnif kyhk kyifi gz diio ctf kyi
ygqyizk zkhdohfo tc utdoauk hjtdq kyi Hjifguhdz zidk kt kyi Bygpgbbgdi
Gzphdoz, dtk tdpv hjtdq kyi banpgu zifmhdkz nak hjtdq kyi bfgmhki
gdogmgoahpz syt qt kt kyij. Gk gz niuhazi G ciip kygz zt oiibpv kyhk gd
kyi hojgdgzkfhkgtd tc kyizi gzphdoz G yhmi btzgkgmipv ficazio kt bifjgk
hdv ogzufgjgdhkgtd syhkztimif ctf btpgkguhp fihztdz hdo yhmi gdzgzkio
kyhk gd uyttzgdq kyi banpgu zifmhdkz utdzgoifhkgtd zytapo ni bhgo
ztpipv kt kyi stfky tc kyi jid uytzid hdo kt kyi diioz tc kyi gzphdoz.
Kyifi gz dt ygqyif ntov tc jid gd taf banpgu zifmgui kyhd si yhmi gd
kyi Bygpgbbgdi Gzphdoz adoif Qtmifdtf Sfgqyk hdo ygz hzztughkiz. Zt chf
hz btzzgnpi kyizi jid zytapo ni qgmid h cfii yhdo, hdo kyigf
zaqqizkgtdz zytapo fiuigmi kyi yihfkv nhurgdq ntky tc kyi Iliuakgmi hdo
tc kyi Utdqfizz. Kyifi gz diio tc h mgqgphdk hdo ogzgdkifizkio zabbtfk
tc taf banpgu zifmhdkz gd kyi Bygpgbbgdiz nv qtto ugkgwidz yifi gd kyi
Adgkio Zkhkiz. Adctfkadhkipv ygkyifkt kytzi tc taf bitbpi yifi hk ytji
syt yhmi zbiughppv uphgjio kt ni kyi uyhjbgtdz tc kyi Cgpgbgdtz yhmi gd
fihpgkv niid kyigf stfzk idijgiz. Kygz sgpp utdkgdai kt ni kyi uhzi hz
ptdq hz kyiv zkfgmi kt jhri kyi Cgpgbgdtz gdoibidoidk, hdo zktb hpp
gdoazkfghp oimiptbjidk tc kyi gzphdoz nv ufvgdq tak hqhgdzk kyi phsz
syguy stapo nfgdq gk td kyi qftado kyhk uhbgkhpgzkz jazk dtk "ilbptgk"
kyi gzphdoz. Zauy bftuiiogdqz hfi dtk tdpv adsgzi, nak hfi jtzk yhfjcap
kt kyi Cgpgbgdtz, syt ot dtk diio gdoibidoidui hk hpp, nak syt ot diio
qtto phsz, qtto banpgu zifmhdkz, hdo kyi gdoazkfghp oimiptbjidk kyhk
uhd tdpv utji gc kyi gdmizkjidk, tc Hjifguhd hdo ctfigqd uhbgkhp gd kyi
gzphdoz gz chmtfio gd hpp piqgkgjhki shvz.

Imifv jihzafi khrid utduifdgdq kyi gzphdoz zytapo ni khrid bfgjhfgpv
sgky h mgis kt kyigf homhdkhqi. Si zytapo uifkhgdpv qgmi kyij ptsif
khfgcc fhkiz td kyigf ilbtfkz kt kyi Adgkio Zkhkiz; gc kygz gz dtk otdi
gk sgpp ni h sftdq kt ilkido taf zygbbgdq phsz kt kyij. G ihfdizkpv
ytbi ctf kyi gjjioghki idhukjidk gdkt phs tc kyi piqgzphkgtd dts
bidogdq kt idutafhqi Hjifguhd uhbgkhp kt ziir gdmizkjidk gd kyi gzphdoz
gd fhgpfthoz, gd chuktfgiz, gd bphdkhkgtdz, hdo gd pajnifgdq hdo
jgdgdq.