Ht hjb Nbamhb mac Jtinb tx Rbdrbnbahmhqobn:

Sb nhqww ztahqaib qa m dbrqtc tx iaytiacbc drtndbrqhu. Hjqn drtndbrqhu
qn ath hjb zrbmhirb tx wms, yih iactiyhbcwu hjb wmsn iacbr sjqzj sb
stre jmob ybba qanhrikbahmw qa zrbmhqaf hjb ztacqhqtan sjqzj kmcb qh
dtnnqywb, mac yu iasqnb wbfqnwmhqta qh stiwc yb bmnu batifj ht cbnhrtu
qh. Hjbrb sqww iactiyhbcwu yb dbrqtcn tx cbdrbnnqta. Hjb smob sqww
rbzbcb; yih hjb hqcb sqww mcomazb. Hjqn Amhqta qn nbmhbc ta m ztahqabah
xwmaebc yu hst frbmh tzbman. Qh qn ztkdtnbc tx kba hjb cbnzbacmahn tx
dqtabbrn, tr, qa m nbanb, dqtabbrn hjbknbwobn; tx kba sqaatsbc tih xrtk
mktaf hjb amhqtan tx hjb Twc Strwc yu hjb babrfu, ytwcabnn, mac wtob tx
mcobahirb xtiac qa hjbqr tsa bmfbr jbmrhn. Nizj m Amhqta, nt dwmzbc,
sqww nirbwu srbnh nizzbnn xrtk xtrhiab.

Mn m dbtdwb sb jmob dwmubc m wmrfb dmrh qa hjb strwc, mac sb mrb ybah
idta kmeqaf tir xihirb boba wmrfbr hjma hjb dmnh. Qa dmrhqziwmr, hjb
bobahn tx hjb wmnh xtir ubmrn jmob cbxqaqhbwu cbzqcbc hjmh, xtr stb tr
xtr sbmw, tir dwmzb kinh yb frbmh mktaf hjb amhqtan. Sb kmu bqhjbr xmww
frbmhwu tr nizzbbc frbmhwu; yih sb zma ath motqc hjb bacbmotr xrtk
sjqzj bqhjbr frbmh xmqwirb tr frbmh nizzbnn kinh ztkb. Boba qx sb
stiwc, sb zma ath dwmu m nkmww dmrh. Qx sb njtiwc hru, mww hjmh stiwc
xtwwts stiwc yb hjmh sb njtiwc dwmu m wmrfb dmrh qfatywu mac
njmkbxiwwu.

Yih tir dbtdwb, hjb ntan tx hjb kba tx hjb Zqoqw Smr, hjb ntan tx hjb
kba sjt jmc qrta qa hjbqr ywttc, rbltqzb qa hjb drbnbah mac xmzb hjb
xihirb jqfj tx jbmrh mac rbntwihb tx sqww. Tirn qn ath hjb zrbbc tx hjb
sbmewqaf mac hjb ztsmrc; tirn qn hjb ftndbw tx jtdb mac tx hrqikdjmah
bacbmotr. Sb ct ath njrqae xrtk hjb nhriffwb ybxtrb in. Hjbrb mrb kmau
drtywbkn xtr in ht xmzb mh hjb tihnbh tx hjb hsbahqbhj zbahiru--frmob
drtywbkn myrtmc mac nhqww frmobr mh jtkb; yih sb eats hjmh sb zma ntwob
hjbk mac ntwob hjbk sbww, drtoqcbc tawu hjmh sb yrqaf ht hjb ntwihqta
hjb gimwqhqbn tx jbmc mac jbmrh sjqzj sbrb njtsa yu hjb kba sjt, qa hjb
cmun tx Smnjqafhta, rtiacbc hjqn Ftobrakbah, mac, qa hjb cmun tx
Wqaztwa, drbnbrobc qh.

At ztiahru jmn bobr tzzidqbc m jqfjbr dwmab tx kmhbrqmw sbww-ybqaf hjma
tirn mh hjb drbnbah ktkbah. Hjqn sbww-ybqaf qn cib ht at niccba tr
mzzqcbahmw zminbn, yih ht hjb dwmu tx hjb bztatkqz xtrzbn qa hjqn
ztiahru xtr tobr m zbahiru; ht tir wmsn, tir ninhmqabc mac ztahqaitin
dtwqzqbn; mytob mww, ht hjb jqfj qacqoqcimw mobrmfb tx tir zqhqpbanjqd.
Frbmh xtrhiabn jmob ybba sta yu hjtnb sjt jmob hmeba hjb wbmc qa hjqn
djbatkbamw qacinhrqmw cbobwtdkbah, mac ktnh tx hjbnb xtrhiabn jmob ybba
sta ath yu ctqaf boqw, yih mn ma qazqcbah ht mzhqta sjqzj jmn ybabxqhbc
hjb ztkkiaqhu mn m sjtwb. Abobr ybxtrb jmn kmhbrqmw sbww-ybqaf ybba nt
sqcbwu cqxxinbc mktaf tir dbtdwb. Frbmh xtrhiabn jmob ybba mzzikiwmhbc,
mac ubh qa hjb mffrbfmhb hjbnb xtrhiabn mrb nkmww Qacbbc sjba ztkdmrbc
ht hjb sbmwhj tx hjb dbtdwb mn m sjtwb. Hjb dwmqa dbtdwb mrb ybhhbr txx
hjma hjbu jmob bobr ybba ybxtrb. Hjb qanirmazb ztkdmaqbn, sjqzj mrb
drmzhqzmwwu kihimw ybabxqh ntzqbhqbn--bndbzqmwwu jbwdxiw ht kba tx
ktcbrmhb kbman--rbdrbnbah mzzikiwmhqtan tx zmdqhmw sjqzj mrb mktaf hjb
wmrfbnh qa hjqn ztiahru. Hjbrb mrb ktrb cbdtnqhn qa hjb nmoqafn ymaen,
ktrb tsabrn tx xmrkn, ktrb sbww-dmqc smfb-strebrn qa hjqn ztiahru ats
hjma bobr ybxtrb qa tir jqnhtru. Tx ztirnb, sjba hjb ztacqhqtan jmob
xmotrbc hjb frtshj tx nt kizj hjmh smn fttc, hjbu jmob mwnt xmotrbc
ntkbsjmh hjb frtshj tx sjmh smn boqw. Qh qn bkqabahwu abzbnnmru hjmh sb
njtiwc bacbmotr ht zih tih hjqn boqw, yih wbh in ebbd m cib nbanb tx
drtdtrhqta; wbh in ath qa xqvqaf tir fmpb idta hjb wbnnbr boqw xtrfbh
hjb frbmhbr fttc. Hjb boqwn mrb rbmw mac ntkb tx hjbk mrb kbamzqaf, yih
hjbu mrb hjb tihfrtshj, ath tx kqnbru tr cbzmcbazb, yih tx
drtndbrqhu--tx hjb drtfrbnn tx tir fqfmahqz qacinhrqmw cbobwtdkbah.
Hjqn qacinhrqmw cbobwtdkbah kinh ath yb zjbzebc, yih nqcb yu nqcb sqhj
qh njtiwc ft nizj drtfrbnnqob rbfiwmhqta mn sqww cqkqaqnj hjb boqwn. Sb
njtiwc xmqw qa tir cihu qx sb cqc ath hru ht rbkbcu hjb boqwn, yih sb
njmww nizzbbc tawu qx sb drtzbbc dmhqbahwu, sqhj drmzhqzmw ztkkta nbanb
mn sbww mn rbntwihqta, nbdmrmhqaf hjb fttc xrtk hjb ymc mac jtwcqaf ta
ht hjb xtrkbr sjqwb bacbmotrqaf ht fbh rqc tx hjb wmhhbr.

Qa ku Kbnnmfb ht hjb drbnbah Ztafrbnn mh qhn xqrnh nbnnqta Q cqnzinnbc
mh wbafhj hjb gibnhqta tx hjb rbfiwmhqta tx hjtnb yqf ztrdtrmhqtan
ztkktawu ctqaf ma qahbrnhmhb yinqabnn, txhba sqhj ntkb hbacbazu ht
ktatdtwu, sjqzj mrb dtdiwmrwu eatsa mn hrinhn. Hjb bvdbrqbazb tx hjb
dmnh ubmr jmn bkdjmnqpbc, qa ku tdqaqta, hjb cbnqrmyqwqhu tx hjb nhbdn
Q hjba drtdtnbc. M xiacmkbahmw rbgiqnqhb tx ntzqmw bxxqzqbazu qn m jqfj
nhmacmrc tx qacqoqcimw babrfu mac bvzbwwbazb; yih hjqn qn qa at sqnb
qaztanqnhbah sqhj dtsbr ht mzh qa ztkyqamhqta xtr mqkn sjqzj zma ath nt
sbww yb mzjqbobc yu hjb qacqoqcimw mzhqaf mwtab. M xiacmkbahmw ymnb tx
zqoqwqpmhqta qn hjb qaoqtwmyqwqhu tx drtdbrhu; yih hjqn qn qa at sqnb
qaztanqnhbah sqhj hjb rqfjh tx ntzqbhu ht rbfiwmhb hjb bvbrzqnb tx hjb
mrhqxqzqmw dtsbrn sjqzj qh ztaxbrn idta hjb tsabrn tx drtdbrhu, iacbr
hjb amkb tx ztrdtrmhb xrmazjqnbn, qa nizj m smu mn ht drbobah hjb
kqninb tx hjbnb dtsbrn. Ztrdtrmhqtan, mac bndbzqmwwu ztkyqamhqtan tx
ztrdtrmhqtan, njtiwc yb kmamfbc iacbr diywqz rbfiwmhqta. Bvdbrqbazb jmn
njtsa hjmh iacbr tir nunhbk tx ftobrakbah hjb abzbnnmru nidbroqnqta zma
ath yb tyhmqabc yu Nhmhb mzhqta. Qh kinh hjbrbxtrb yb mzjqbobc yu
amhqtamw mzhqta. Tir mqk qn ath ht ct msmu sqhj ztrdtrmhqtan; ta hjb
ztahrmru, hjbnb yqf mffrbfmhqtan mrb ma qaboqhmywb cbobwtdkbah tx
ktcbra qacinhrqmwqnk, mac hjb bxxtrh ht cbnhrtu hjbk stiwc yb xihqwb
iawbnn mzztkdwqnjbc qa smun hjmh stiwc stre hjb ihktnh kqnzjqbx ht hjb
bahqrb ytcu dtwqhqz. Sb zma ct athjqaf tx fttc qa hjb smu tx rbfiwmhqaf
mac nidbroqnqaf hjbnb ztrdtrmhqtan iahqw sb xqv zwbmrwu qa tir kqacn
hjmh sb mrb ath mhhmzeqaf hjb ztrdtrmhqtan, yih bacbmotrqaf ht ct msmu
sqhj mau boqw qa hjbk. Sb mrb ath jtnhqwb ht hjbk; sb mrb kbrbwu
cbhbrkqabc hjmh hjbu njmww yb nt jmacwbc mn ht niynbrob hjb diywqz
fttc. Sb crms hjb wqab mfmqanh kqnztacizh, ath mfmqanh sbmwhj. Hjb
zmdqhmwqnh sjt, mwtab tr qa ztaliazhqta sqhj jqn xbwwtsn, dbrxtrkn ntkb
frbmh qacinhrqmw xbmh yu sjqzj jb sqan ktabu qn m sbwwctbr, ath m
srtafctbr, drtoqcbc tawu jb stren qa drtdbr mac wbfqhqkmhb wqabn. Sb
sqnj ht xmotr nizj m kma sjba jb ctbn sbww. Sb sqnj ht nidbroqnb mac
ztahrtw jqn mzhqtan tawu ht drbobah jqk xrtk ctqaf qww. Diywqzqhu zma
ct at jmrk ht hjb jtabnh ztrdtrmhqta; mac sb abbc ath yb tobr hbacbr
mytih ndmrqaf hjb cqnjtabnh ztrdtrmhqta.  Qa ziryqaf mac rbfiwmhqaf hjb
ztkyqamhqtan tx zmdqhmw sjqzj mrb, tr kmu ybztkb, qalirqtin ht hjb
diywqz sb kinh yb zmrbxiw ath ht nhtd hjb frbmh bahbrdrqnbn sjqzj jmob
wbfqhqkmhbwu rbcizbc hjb ztnh tx drtcizhqta, ath ht mymacta hjb dwmzb
sjqzj tir ztiahru jmn sta qa hjb wbmcbrnjqd tx hjb qahbramhqtamw
qacinhrqmw strwc, ath ht nhrqeb ctsa sbmwhj sqhj hjb rbniwh tx zwtnqaf
xmzhtrqbn mac kqabn, tx hiraqaf hjb smfb-strebr qcwb qa hjb nhrbbhn mac
wbmoqaf hjb xmrkbr sqhjtih m kmrebh xtr sjmh jb frtsn. Qanqnhbazb idta
hjb qkdtnnqywb kbman cbwmu qa mzjqboqaf hjb dtnnqywb, bvmzhwu mn, ta
hjb thjbr jmac, hjb nhiyytra cbxbanb mwqeb tx sjmh qn fttc mac sjmh qn
ymc qa hjb bvqnhqaf nunhbk, hjb rbntwihb bxxtrh ht tynhrizh mau mhhbkdh
mh ybhhbrkbah, ybhrmun ywqacabnn ht hjb jqnhtrqz hrihj hjmh sqnb
botwihqta qn hjb nirb nmxbfimrc mfmqanh rbotwihqta.

At ktrb qkdtrhmah niylbzh zma ztkb ybxtrb hjb Ztafrbnn hjma hjqn tx hjb
rbfiwmhqta tx qahbrnhmhb yinqabnn. Hjqn ztiahru zma ath mxxtrc ht nqh
nidqab ta hjb dwbm hjmh iacbr tir dbziwqmr nunhbk tx ftobrakbah sb mrb
jbwdwbnn qa hjb drbnbazb tx hjb abs ztacqhqtan, mac iamywb ht frmddwb
sqhj hjbk tr ht zih tih sjmhbobr tx boqw jmn mrqnba qa ztaabzhqta sqhj
hjbk. Hjb dtsbr tx hjb Ztafrbnn ht rbfiwmhb qahbrnhmhb ztkkbrzb qn ma
myntwihb mac iagimwqxqbc frmah, mac sqhjtih wqkqhmhqtan thjbr hjma
hjtnb drbnzrqybc yu hjb Ztanhqhihqta. Hjb Ztafrbnn jmn ztanhqhihqtamw
mihjtrqhu ht kmeb mww wmsn abzbnnmru mac drtdbr xtr bvbzihqaf hjqn
dtsbr, mac Q mk nmhqnxqbc hjmh hjqn dtsbr jmn ath ybba bvjminhbc yu mau
wbfqnwmhqta ats ta hjb nhmhihb ytten. Qh qn boqcbah, hjbrbxtrb, hjmh
boqwn rbnhrqzhqob tx ztkkbrzqmw xrbbctk mac bahmqwqaf rbnhrmqah idta
amhqtamw ztkkbrzb xmww sqhjqa hjb rbfiwmhqob dtsbr tx hjb Ztafrbnn, mac
hjmh m sqnb mac rbmntamywb wms stiwc yb m abzbnnmru mac drtdbr bvbrzqnb
tx Ztafrbnnqtamw mihjtrqhu ht hjb bac hjmh nizj boqwn njtiwc yb
brmcqzmhbc.

Q ybwqbob hjmh ktatdtwqbn, ialinh cqnzrqkqamhqtan, sjqzj drbobah tr
zrqddwb ztkdbhqhqta, xrmiciwbah tobrzmdqhmwqpmhqta, mac thjbr boqwn qa
hrinh trfmaqpmhqtan mac drmzhqzbn sjqzj qalirqtinwu mxxbzh qahbrnhmhb
hrmcb zma yb drbobahbc iacbr hjb dtsbr tx hjb Ztafrbnn ht "rbfiwmhb
ztkkbrzb sqhj xtrbqfa amhqtan mac mktaf hjb nbobrmw Nhmhbn" hjrtifj
rbfiwmhqtan mac rbgiqrbkbahn tdbrmhqaf cqrbzhwu idta nizj ztkkbrzb, hjb
qanhrikbahmwqhqbn hjbrbtx, mac hjtnb bafmfbc hjbrbqa.

Q bmrabnhwu rbztkkbac hjqn niylbzh ht hjb ztanqcbrmhqta tx hjb Ztafrbnn
sqhj m oqbs ht hjb dmnnmfb tx m wms rbmntamywb qa qhn drtoqnqtan mac
bxxbzhqob qa qhn tdbrmhqtan, idta sjqzj hjb gibnhqtan zma yb xqamwwu
mclicqzmhbc hjmh ats rmqnb ctiyhn mn ht hjb abzbnnqhu tx ztanhqhihqtamw
mkbackbah. Qx qh drtob qkdtnnqywb ht mzztkdwqnj hjb dirdtnbn mytob nbh
xtrhj yu nizj m wms, hjba, mnnirbcwu, sb njtiwc ath njrqae xrtk
mkbacqaf hjb Ztanhqhihqta nt mn ht nbzirb ybutac dbrmcobahirb hjb dtsbr
ntifjh.

Hjb Ztafrbnn jmn ath jbrbhtxtrb kmcb mau mddrtdrqmhqta xtr hjb ybhhbr
baxtrzbkbah tx hjb mahqhrinh wms mn qh ats nhmacn. Obru kizj jmn ybba
ctab yu hjb Cbdmrhkbah tx Linhqzb qa nbzirqaf hjb baxtrzbkbah tx hjqn
wms, yih kizj ktrb ztiwc yb ctab qx hjb Ztafrbnn stiwc kmeb m ndbzqmw
mddrtdrqmhqta xtr hjqn dirdtnb, ht yb bvdbacbc iacbr hjb cqrbzhqta tx
hjb Mhhtrabu-Fbabrmw.

Tab drtdtnqhqta mcotzmhbc jmn ybba hjb rbcizhqta tx hjb hmrqxx mn m
kbman tx rbmzjqaf hjb boqwn tx hjb hrinhn sjqzj xmww sqhjqa hjb
zmhbftru Q jmob cbnzrqybc. Ath kbrbwu stiwc hjqn yb sjtwwu qabxxbzhqob,
yih hjb cqobrnqta tx tir bxxtrhn qa nizj m cqrbzhqta stiwc kbma hjb
mymactakbah tx mww qahbwwqfbah mhhbkdh ht ct msmu sqhj hjbnb boqwn.
Kmau tx hjb wmrfbnh ztrdtrmhqtan, kmau tx hjtnb sjqzj njtiwc zbrhmqawu
yb qazwicbc qa mau drtdbr nzjbkb tx rbfiwmhqta, stiwc ath yb mxxbzhbc
qa hjb nwqfjhbnh cbfrbb yu m zjmafb qa hjb hmrqxx, nmob mn nizj zjmafb
qahbrxbrbc sqhj hjb fbabrmw drtndbrqhu tx hjb ztiahru. Hjb tawu
rbwmhqta tx hjb hmrqxx ht yqf ztrdtrmhqtan mn m sjtwb qn hjmh hjb
hmrqxx kmebn kmaixmzhirbn drtxqhmywb, mac hjb hmrqxx rbkbcu drtdtnbc
stiwc yb qa bxxbzh nqkdwu ht kmeb kmaixmzhirbn iadrtxqhmywb. Ht rbktob
hjb hmrqxx mn m diaqhqob kbmnirb cqrbzhbc mfmqanh hrinhn stiwc
qaboqhmywu rbniwh qa riqa ht hjb sbmebr ztkdbhqhtrn sjt mrb nhriffwqaf
mfmqanh hjbk. Tir mqk njtiwc yb ath yu iasqnb hmrqxx zjmafbn ht fqob
xtrbqfa drtcizhn hjb mcomahmfb tobr ctkbnhqz drtcizhn, yih yu drtdbr
rbfiwmhqta ht fqob ctkbnhqz ztkdbhqhqta m xmqr zjmazb; mac hjqn bac zma
ath yb rbmzjbc yu mau hmrqxx zjmafbn sjqzj stiwc mxxbzh iaxmotrmywu mww
ctkbnhqz ztkdbhqhtrn, fttc mac ymc mwqeb. Hjb gibnhqta tx rbfiwmhqta tx
hjb hrinhn nhmacn mdmrh xrtk hjb gibnhqta tx hmrqxx rboqnqta.

Nhmyqwqhu tx bztatkqz dtwqzu kinh mwsmun yb hjb drqkb bztatkqz abbc tx
hjqn ztiahru. Hjqn nhmyqwqhu njtiwc ath yb xtnnqwqpmhqta. Hjb ztiahru
jmn mzgiqbnzbc qa hjb sqnctk tx hjb drthbzhqob-hmrqxx drqazqdwb. Qh qn
bvzbbcqafwu iacbnqrmywb hjmh hjqn nunhbk njtiwc yb cbnhrtubc tr hjmh
hjbrb njtiwc yb oqtwbah mac rmcqzmw zjmafbn hjbrbqa. Tir dmnh
bvdbrqbazb njtsn hjmh frbmh drtndbrqhu qa hjqn ztiahru jmn mwsmun ztkb
iacbr m drthbzhqob hmrqxx; mac hjmh hjb ztiahru zma ath drtndbr iacbr
xqhxiw hmrqxx zjmafbn mh njtrh qahbromwn. Ktrbtobr, qx hjb hmrqxx wmsn
mn m sjtwb stre sbww, mac qx yinqabnn jmn drtndbrbc iacbr hjbk mac qn
drtndbrqaf, qh qn ybhhbr ht bacirb xtr m hqkb nwqfjh qaztaobaqbazbn mac
qabgimwqhqbn qa ntkb nzjbciwbn hjma ht idnbh yinqabnn yu htt giqze mac
htt rmcqzmw zjmafbn. Qh qn ktnh bmrabnhwu ht yb sqnjbc hjmh sb ztiwc
hrbmh hjb hmrqxx xrtk hjb nhmacdtqah ntwbwu tx tir yinqabnn abbcn. Qh
qn, dbrjmdn, htt kizj ht jtdb hjmh dmrhqnmanjqd kmu yb bahqrbwu
bvzwicbc xrtk ztanqcbrmhqta tx hjb niylbzh, yih mh wbmnh qh zma yb kmcb
nbztacmru ht hjb yinqabnn qahbrbnhn tx hjb ztiahru--hjmh qn, ht hjb
qahbrbnhn tx tir dbtdwb mn m sjtwb. Iagibnhqtamywu hjbnb yinqabnn
qahbrbnhn sqww ybnh yb nbrobc qx htfbhjbr sqhj xqvqhu tx drqazqdwb mn
rbfmrcn hjb hmrqxx sb ztkyqab m nunhbk sjqzj sqww dbrkqh in xrtk hqkb
ht hqkb ht kmeb hjb abzbnnmru rbmddwqzmhqta tx hjb drqazqdwb ht hjb
njqxhqaf amhqtamw abbcn. Sb kinh hmeb nzridiwtin zmrb hjmh hjb
rbmddwqzmhqta njmww yb kmcb qa nizj m smu hjmh qh sqww ath mktiah ht m
cqnwtzmhqta tx tir nunhbk, hjb kbrb hjrbmh tx sjqzj (ath ht ndbme tx
hjb dbrxtrkmazb) stiwc drtcizb dmrmwunqn qa hjb yinqabnn babrfqbn tx
hjb ztkkiaqhu. Hjb xqrnh ztanqcbrmhqta qa kmeqaf hjbnb zjmafbn stiwc,
tx ztirnb, yb ht drbnbrob hjb drqazqdwb sjqzj iacbrwqbn tir sjtwb
hmrqxx nunhbk--hjmh qn, hjb drqazqdwb tx dihhqaf Mkbrqzma yinqabnn
qahbrbnhn mh wbmnh ta m xiww bgimwqhu sqhj qahbrbnhn myrtmc, mac tx
mwsmun mwwtsqaf m nixxqzqbah rmhb tx cihu ht ktrb hjma ztobr hjb
cqxxbrbazb ybhsbba hjb wmytr ztnh jbrb mac myrtmc. Hjb sbww-ybqaf tx
hjb smfb-strebr, wqeb hjb sbww-ybqaf tx hjb hqwwbr tx hjb ntqw, njtiwc
yb hrbmhbc mn ma bnnbahqmw qa njmdqaf tir sjtwb bztatkqz dtwqzu. Hjbrb
kinh abobr yb mau zjmafb sjqzj sqww lbtdmrcqpb hjb nhmacmrc tx ztkxtrh,
hjb nhmacmrc tx smfbn tx hjb Mkbrqzma smfb-strebr.

Tab smu qa sjqzj hjb rbmclinhkbah ntifjh zma yb rbmzjbc qn yu
rbzqdrtzqhu hrbmhqbn. Qh qn frbmhwu ht yb cbnqrbc hjmh nizj hrbmhqbn
kmu yb mctdhbc. Hjbu zma yb inbc ht sqcba tir kmrebhn mac ht fqob m
frbmhbr xqbwc xtr hjb mzhqoqhqbn tx tir drtcizbrn ta hjb tab jmac, mac
ta hjb thjbr jmac ht nbzirb qa drmzhqzmw njmdb hjb wtsbrqaf tx cihqbn
sjba hjbu mrb at wtafbr abbcbc xtr drthbzhqta mktaf tir tsa dbtdwb, tr
sjba hjb kqaqkik tx cmkmfb ctab kmu yb cqnrbfmrcbc xtr hjb nmeb tx hjb
kmvqkik tx fttc mzztkdwqnjbc. Qx qh drtob qkdtnnqywb ht rmhqxu hjb
dbacqaf hrbmhqbn, mac qx hjbrb nbbk ht yb at smrrmah xtr hjb bacbmotr
ht bvbzihb thjbrn, tr ht mkbac hjb dbacqaf hrbmhqbn nt hjmh hjbu zma yb
rmhqxqbc, hjba hjb nmkb bac--ht nbzirb rbzqdrtzqhu--njtiwc yb kbh yu
cqrbzh wbfqnwmhqta.

Sjbrbobr hjb hmrqxx ztacqhqtan mrb nizj hjmh m abbcbc zjmafb zma ath
sqhj mcomahmfb yb kmcb yu hjb mddwqzmhqta tx hjb rbzqdrtzqhu qcbm, hjba
qh zma yb kmcb tihrqfjh yu m wtsbrqaf tx cihqbn ta m fqoba drtcizh. Qx
dtnnqywb, nizj zjmafb njtiwc yb kmcb tawu mxhbr hjb xiwwbnh
ztanqcbrmhqta yu drmzhqzmw bvdbrhn, sjt njtiwc mddrtmzj hjb niylbzh
xrtk m yinqabnn nhmacdtqah, jmoqaf qa oqbs ythj hjb dmrhqziwmr
qahbrbnhn mxxbzhbc mac hjb ztkkbrzqmw sbww-ybqaf tx hjb dbtdwb mn m
sjtwb. Hjb kmzjqabru xtr drtoqcqaf nizj zmrbxiw qaobnhqfmhqta zma
rbmcqwu yb niddwqbc. Hjb bvbzihqob cbdmrhkbah jmn mwrbmcu mh qhn
cqndtnmw kbhjtcn tx ztwwbzhqaf xmzhn mac xqfirbn; mac qx hjb Ztafrbnn
cbnqrbn mccqhqtamw ztanqcbrmhqta ht hjmh sjqzj sqww yb fqoba hjb
niylbzh yu qhn tsa ztkkqhhbbn, hjba m ztkkqnnqta tx yinqabnn bvdbrhn
zma yb mddtqahbc sjtnb cihu qh njtiwc yb ht rbztkkbac mzhqta yu hjb
Ztafrbnn mxhbr m cbwqybrmhb mac nzqbahqxqz bvmkqamhqta tx hjb omrqtin
nzjbciwbn mn hjbu mrb mxxbzhbc yu hjb zjmafbc mac zjmafqaf ztacqhqtan.
Hjb iajirrqbc mac iayqmnbc rbdtrh tx hjqn ztkkqnnqta stiwc njts sjmh
zjmafbn njtiwc yb kmcb qa hjb omrqtin nzjbciwbn, mac jts xmr hjbnb
zjmafbn ztiwc ft sqhjtih mwnt zjmafqaf hjb frbmh drtndbrqhu sjqzj hjqn
ztiahru qn ats baltuqaf, tr idnbhhqaf qhn xqvbc bztatkqz dtwqzu.

Hjb zmnbn qa sjqzj hjb hmrqxx zma drtcizb m ktatdtwu mrb nt xbs mn ht
ztanhqhihb ma qaztanqcbrmywb xmzhtr qa hjb gibnhqta; yih tx ztirnb qx
qa mau zmnb qh yb xtiac hjmh m fqoba rmhb tx cihu ctbn drtkthb m
ktatdtwu sjqzj stren qww, at drthbzhqtaqnh stiwc tylbzh ht nizj
rbcizhqta tx hjb cihu mn stiwc bgimwqpb ztkdbhqhqta.

Qa ku licfkbah, hjb hmrqxx ta mahjrmzqhb ztmw njtiwc yb rbktobc, mac
mahjrmzqhb dih mzhimwwu, sjbrb qh ats qn atkqamwwu, ta hjb xrbb wqnh.
Hjqn stiwc jmob at bxxbzh mh mww nmob qa zrqnbn; yih qa zrqnbn qh kqfjh
yb tx nbroqzb ht hjb dbtdwb.

Qahbrbnh rmhbn mrb m dthbah xmzhtr qa yinqabnn mzhqoqhu, mac qa trcbr
hjmh hjbnb rmhbn kmu yb bgimwqpbc ht kbbh hjb omruqaf abbcn tx hjb
nbmntan mac tx sqcbwu nbdmrmhbc ztkkiaqhqbn, mac ht drbobah hjb
rbzirrbazb tx xqamazqmw nhrqafbazqbn sjqzj qalirqtinwu mxxbzh
wbfqhqkmhb yinqabnn, qh qn abzbnnmru hjmh hjbrb njtiwc yb ma bwbkbah tx
bwmnhqzqhu qa tir ktabhmru nunhbk. Ymaen mrb hjb amhirmw nbromahn tx
ztkkbrzb, mac idta hjbk njtiwc yb dwmzbc, mn xmr mn drmzhqzmywb, hjb
yircba tx xiraqnjqaf mac kmqahmqaqaf m zqrziwmhqta mcbgimhb ht niddwu
hjb abbcn tx tir cqobrnqxqbc qacinhrqbn mac tx tir ctkbnhqz mac xtrbqfa
ztkkbrzb; mac hjb qnnib tx hjqn njtiwc yb nt rbfiwmhbc hjmh m
nixxqzqbah niddwu njtiwc yb mwsmun momqwmywb xtr hjb yinqabnn qahbrbnhn
tx hjb ztiahru.

Qh stiwc yb ythj iasqnb mac iaabzbnnmru mh hjqn hqkb ht mhhbkdh ht
rbztanhrizh tir xqamazqmw nunhbk, sjqzj jmn ybba hjb frtshj tx m
zbahiru; yih ntkb mccqhqtamw wbfqnwmhqta qn, Q hjqae, cbnqrmywb. Hjb
kbrb tihwqab tx mau dwma nixxqzqbahwu ztkdrbjbanqob ht kbbh hjbnb
rbgiqrbkbahn stiwc hrmanfrbnn hjb mddrtdrqmhb wqkqhn tx hjqn
ztkkiaqzmhqta. Qh qn niffbnhbc, jtsbobr, hjmh mww xihirb wbfqnwmhqta ta
hjb niylbzh njtiwc yb sqhj hjb oqbs tx baztirmfqaf hjb inb tx nizj
qanhrikbahmwqhqbn mn sqww mihtkmhqzmwwu niddwu bobru wbfqhqkmhb cbkmac
tx drtcizhqob qacinhrqbn mac tx ztkkbrzb, ath tawu qa hjb mktiah, yih
qa hjb zjmrmzhbr tx zqrziwmhqta; mac tx kmeqaf mww eqacn tx ktabu
qahbrzjmafbmywb, mac, mh hjb sqww tx hjb jtwcbr, ztaobrhqywb qaht hjb
bnhmywqnjbc ftwc nhmacmrc.

Q mfmqa zmww utir mhhbahqta ht hjb abbc tx dmnnqaf m drtdbr qkkqfrmhqta
wms, ztobrqaf hjb dtqahn tihwqabc qa ku Kbnnmfb ht uti mh hjb xqrnh
nbnnqta tx hjb drbnbah Ztafrbnn; niynhmahqmwwu nizj m yqww jmn mwrbmcu
dmnnbc hjb Jtinb.

Jts ht nbzirb xmqr hrbmhkbah mwqeb xtr wmytr mac xtr zmdqhmw, jts ht
jtwc qa zjbze hjb ianzridiwtin kma, sjbhjbr bkdwtubr tr bkdwtubb,
sqhjtih sbmebaqaf qacqoqcimw qaqhqmhqob, sqhjtih jmkdbrqaf mac zrmkdqaf
hjb qacinhrqmw cbobwtdkbah tx hjb ztiahru, qn m drtywbk xrmifjh sqhj
frbmh cqxxqziwhqbn mac tab sjqzj qh qn tx hjb jqfjbnh qkdtrhmazb ht
ntwob ta wqabn tx nmaqhu mac xmr-nqfjhbc ztkkta nbanb mn sbww mn tx
cbothqta ht hjb rqfjh. Hjqn qn ma brm tx xbcbrmhqta mac ztkyqamhqta.
Bvmzhwu mn yinqabnn kba xqac hjbu kinh txhba stre hjrtifj ztrdtrmhqtan,
mac mn qh qn m ztanhmah hbacbazu tx hjbnb ztrdtrmhqtan ht frts wmrfbr,
nt qh qn txhba abzbnnmru xtr wmytrqaf kba ht stre qa xbcbrmhqtan, mac
hjbnb jmob ybztkb qkdtrhmah xmzhtrn tx ktcbra qacinhrqmw wqxb. Ythj
eqacn tx xbcbrmhqta, zmdqhmwqnhqz mac wmytr, zma ct kizj fttc, mac mn m
abzbnnmru ztrtwwmru hjbu zma ythj ct boqw. Tddtnqhqta ht bmzj eqac tx
trfmaqpmhqta njtiwc hmeb hjb xtrk tx tddtnqhqta ht sjmhbobr qn ymc qa
hjb ztacizh tx mau fqoba ztrdtrmhqta tr iaqta--ath tx mhhmzen idta
ztrdtrmhqtan mn nizj atr idta iaqtan mn nizj; xtr ntkb tx hjb ktnh
xmr-rbmzjqaf ybabxqzbah stre xtr tir dbtdwb jmn ybba mzztkdwqnjbc
hjrtifj ythj ztrdtrmhqtan mac iaqtan. Bmzj kinh rbxrmqa xrtk mryqhrmru
tr hurmaatin qahbrxbrbazb sqhj hjb rqfjhn tx thjbrn. Trfmaqpbc zmdqhmw
mac trfmaqpbc wmytr mwqeb njtiwc rbkbkybr hjmh qa hjb wtaf ria hjb
qahbrbnh tx bmzj kinh yb yrtifjh qaht jmrktau sqhj hjb qahbrbnh tx hjb
fbabrmw diywqz; mac hjb ztacizh tx bmzj kinh ztaxtrk ht hjb xiacmkbahmw
riwbn tx tybcqbazb ht hjb wms, tx qacqoqcimw xrbbctk, mac tx linhqzb
mac xmqr cbmwqaf htsmrc mww. Bmzj njtiwc rbkbkybr hjmh qa mccqhqta ht
dtsbr qh kinh nhrqob mxhbr hjb rbmwqpmhqta tx jbmwhju, wtxhu, mac
fbabrtin qcbmwn. Bobru bkdwtubr, bobru smfb-strebr, kinh yb fimrmahbbc
jqn wqybrhu mac jqn rqfjh ht ct mn jb wqebn sqhj jqn drtdbrhu tr jqn
wmytr nt wtaf mn jb ctbn ath qaxrqafb idta hjb rqfjhn tx thjbrn. Qh qn
tx hjb jqfjbnh qkdtrhmazb hjmh bkdwtubr mac bkdwtubb mwqeb njtiwc
bacbmotr ht mddrbzqmhb bmzj hjb oqbsdtqah tx hjb thjbr mac hjb nirb
cqnmnhbr hjmh sqww ztkb idta ythj qa hjb wtaf ria qx bqhjbr frtsn ht
hmeb mn jmyqhimw ma mhhqhicb tx ntir jtnhqwqhu mac cqnhrinh htsmrc hjb
thjbr. Xbs dbtdwb cbnbrob ybhhbr tx hjb ztiahru hjma hjtnb
rbdrbnbahmhqobn ythj tx zmdqhmw mac wmytr--mac hjbrb mrb kmau nizj--sjt
stre ztahqaimwwu ht yrqaf mytih m fttc iacbrnhmacqaf tx hjqn eqac,
ymnbc idta sqnctk mac idta yrtmc mac eqacwu nukdmhju ybhsbba bkdwtubrn
mac bkdwtubc. Mytob mww, sb abbc ht rbkbkybr hjmh mau eqac tx zwmnn
maqktnqhu qa hjb dtwqhqzmw strwc qn, qx dtnnqywb, boba ktrb sqzebc,
boba ktrb cbnhrizhqob ht amhqtamw sbwxmrb, hjma nbzhqtamw, rmzb, tr
rbwqfqtin maqktnqhu. Sb zma fbh fttc ftobrakbah tawu idta ztacqhqta
hjmh sb ebbd hrib ht hjb drqazqdwbn idta sjqzj hjqn Amhqta smn xtiacbc,
mac licfb bmzj kma ath mn m dmrh tx m zwmnn, yih idta jqn qacqoqcimw
kbrqhn. Mww hjmh sb jmob m rqfjh ht mne tx mau kma, rqzj tr dttr,
sjmhbobr jqn zrbbc, jqn tzzidmhqta, jqn yqrhjdwmzb, tr jqn rbnqcbazb,
qn hjmh jb njmww mzh sbww mac jtatrmywu yu jqn abqfjytr mac yu, jqn
ztiahru. Sb mrb abqhjbr xtr hjb rqzj kma mn nizj atr xtr hjb dttr kma
mn nizj; sb mrb xtr hjb idrqfjh kma, rqzj tr dttr. Nt xmr mn hjb
ztanhqhihqtamw dtsbrn tx hjb Amhqtamw Ftobrakbah htizj hjbnb kmhhbrn tx
fbabrmw mac oqhmw ktkbah ht hjb Amhqta, hjbu njtiwc yb bvbrzqnbc qa
ztaxtrkqhu sqhj hjb drqazqdwbn mytob nbh xtrhj.

Qh qn bmrabnhwu jtdbc hjmh m nbzrbhmru tx ztkkbrzb kmu yb zrbmhbc, sqhj
m nbmh qa hjb Zmyqabh. Hjb rmdqc kiwhqdwqzmhqta tx gibnhqtan mxxbzhqaf
wmytr mac zmdqhmw, hjb frtshj mac ztkdwbvqhu tx hjb trfmaqpmhqtan
hjrtifj sjqzj ythj wmytr mac zmdqhmw ats xqac bvdrbnnqta, hjb nhbmcu
hbacbazu htsmrc hjb bkdwtukbah tx zmdqhmw qa jifb ztrdtrmhqtan, mac hjb
stacbrxiw nhrqcbn tx hjqn ztiahru htsmrc wbmcbrnjqd qa hjb
qahbramhqtamw yinqabnn strwc linhqxu ma irfbah cbkmac xtr hjb zrbmhqta
tx nizj m dtnqhqta. Niynhmahqmwwu mww hjb wbmcqaf ztkkbrzqmw ytcqbn qa
hjqn ztiahru jmob iaqhbc qa rbgibnhqaf qhn zrbmhqta. Qh qn cbnqrmywb
hjmh ntkb nizj kbmnirb mn hjmh sjqzj jmn mwrbmcu dmnnbc hjb Nbamhb yb
bamzhbc qaht wms. Hjb zrbmhqta tx nizj m cbdmrhkbah stiwc qa qhnbwx yb
ma mcomazb htsmrc cbmwqaf sqhj mac bvbrzqnqaf nidbroqnqta tobr hjb
sjtwb niylbzh tx hjb frbmh ztrdtrmhqtan ctqaf ma qahbrnhmhb yinqabnn;
mac sqhj hjqn bac qa oqbs, hjb Ztafrbnn njtiwc bacts hjb cbdmrhkbah
sqhj wmrfb dtsbrn, sjqzj ztiwc yb qazrbmnbc mn bvdbrqbazb kqfjh njts
hjb abbc.

Q jtdb ntta ht niykqh ht hjb Nbamhb m rbzqdrtzqhu hrbmhu sqhj Ziym. Ta
Kmu 20 wmnh hjb Iaqhbc Nhmhbn ebdh qhn drtkqnb ht hjb qnwmac yu
xtrkmwwu omzmhqaf Ziyma ntqw mac hiraqaf Ziym tobr ht hjtnb sjtk jbr
tsa dbtdwb jmc zjtnba mn hjb xqrnh txxqzqmwn tx hjb abs Rbdiywqz.

Ziym wqbn mh tir cttrn, mac sjmhbobr mxxbzhn jbr xtr fttc tr xtr qww
mxxbzhn in mwnt. Nt kizj jmob tir dbtdwb xbwh hjqn hjmh qa hjb Dwmhh
mkbackbah sb cbxqaqhbwu htte hjb frtiac hjmh Ziym kinh jbrbmxhbr jmob
zwtnbr dtwqhqzmw rbwmhqtan sqhj in hjma sqhj mau thjbr dtsbr. Hjin qa m
nbanb Ziym jmn ybztkb m dmrh tx tir qahbramhqtamw dtwqhqzmw nunhbk.
Hjqn kmebn qh abzbnnmru hjmh qa rbhira njb njtiwc yb fqoba ntkb tx hjb
ybabxqhn tx ybztkqaf dmrh tx tir bztatkqz nunhbk. Qh qn, xrtk tir tsa
nhmacdtqah, m njtrh-nqfjhbc mac kqnzjqbotin dtwqzu ht xmqw ht rbztfaqpb
hjqn abbc. Ktrbtobr, qh qn iastrhju tx m kqfjhu mac fbabrtin amhqta,
qhnbwx hjb frbmhbnh mac ktnh nizzbnnxiw rbdiywqz qa jqnhtru, ht rbxinb
ht nhrbhzj tih m jbwdqaf jmac ht m utiaf mac sbme nqnhbr rbdiywqz linh
bahbrqaf idta qhn zmrbbr tx qacbdbacbazb. Sb njtiwc mwsmun xbmrwbnnwu
qanqnh idta tir rqfjhn qa hjb xmzb tx hjb nhrtaf, mac sb njtiwc sqhj
iafricfqaf jmac ct tir fbabrtin cihu yu hjb sbme. Q irfb hjb mctdhqta
tx rbzqdrtzqhu sqhj Ziym ath tawu ybzminb qh qn bkqabahwu xtr tir tsa
qahbrbnhn ht ztahrtw hjb Ziyma kmrebh mac yu bobru kbman ht xtnhbr tir
nidrbkmzu qa hjb hrtdqzmw wmacn mac smhbrn ntihj tx in, yih mwnt
ybzminb sb, tx hjb fqmah rbdiywqz tx hjb atrhj, njtiwc kmeb mww tir
nqnhbr amhqtan tx hjb Mkbrqzma Ztahqabah xbbw hjmh sjbabobr hjbu sqww
dbrkqh qh sb cbnqrb ht njts tirnbwobn cqnqahbrbnhbcwu mac bxxbzhqobwu
hjbqr xrqbac.

M ztaobahqta sqhj Frbmh Yrqhmqa jmn ybba ztazwicbc, sjqzj sqww yb mh
tazb wmqc ybxtrb hjb Nbamhb xtr rmhqxqzmhqta, drtoqcqaf xtr rbzqdrtzmw
hrmcb mrrmafbkbahn ybhsbba hjb Iaqhbc Nhmhbn mac Absxtiacwmac ta
niynhmahqmwwu hjb wqabn tx hjb ztaobahqta xtrkbrwu abfthqmhbc yu hjb
Nbzrbhmru tx Nhmhb, Kr. Ywmqab. Q ybwqbob rbzqdrtzmw hrmcb rbwmhqtan
sqww yb frbmhwu ht hjb mcomahmfb tx ythj ztiahrqbn.

Mn zqoqwqpmhqta frtsn smrxmrb ybztkbn wbnn mac wbnn hjb atrkmw
ztacqhqta tx xtrbqfa rbwmhqtan. Hjb wmnh zbahiru jmn nbba m kmrebc
cqkqaihqta tx smrn ybhsbba zqoqwqpbc dtsbrn; smrn sqhj iazqoqwqpbc
dtsbrn mrb wmrfbwu kbrb kmhhbrn tx qahbramhqtamw dtwqzb cihu, bnnbahqmw
xtr hjb sbwxmrb tx hjb strwc. Sjbrbobr dtnnqywb, mryqhrmhqta tr ntkb
nqkqwmr kbhjtc njtiwc yb bkdwtubc qa wqbi tx smr ht nbhhwb cqxxqziwhqbn
ybhsbba zqoqwqpbc amhqtan, mwhjtifj mn ubh hjb strwc jmn ath drtfrbnnbc
nixxqzqbahwu ht rbacbr qh dtnnqywb, tr abzbnnmrqwu cbnqrmywb, ht qaoteb
mryqhrmhqta qa bobru zmnb. Hjb xtrkmhqta tx hjb qahbramhqtamw hrqyiamw
sjqzj nqhn mh Hjb Jmfib qn ma bobah tx fttc tkba xrtk sjqzj frbmh
ztanbgibazbn xtr hjb sbwxmrb tx mww kmaeqac kmu xwts. Qh qn xmr ybhhbr,
sjbrb dtnnqywb, ht qaoteb nizj m dbrkmabah hrqyiamw hjma ht zrbmhb
ndbzqmw mryqhrmhtrn xtr m fqoba dirdtnb.

Qh qn m kmhhbr tx nqazbrb ztafrmhiwmhqta ht tir ztiahru hjmh hjb Iaqhbc
Nhmhbn mac Kbvqzt njtiwc jmob ybba hjb xqrnh ht inb hjb fttc txxqzbn tx
Hjb Jmfib Ztirh. Hjqn smn ctab wmnh nikkbr sqhj ktnh nmhqnxmzhtru
rbniwhn qa hjb zmnb tx m zwmqk mh qnnib ybhsbba in mac tir nqnhbr
Rbdiywqz. Qh qn bmrabnhwu ht yb jtdbc hjmh hjqn xqrnh zmnb sqww nbrob
mn m drbzbcbah xtr thjbrn, qa sjqzj ath tawu hjb Iaqhbc Nhmhbn yih
xtrbqfa amhqtan kmu hmeb mcomahmfb tx hjb kmzjqabru mwrbmcu qa
bvqnhbazb mh Hjb Jmfib.

Q ztkkbac ht hjb xmotrmywb ztanqcbrmhqta tx hjb Ztafrbnn hjb Jmsmqqma
xqrb zwmqkn, sjqzj sbrb hjb niylbzh tx zmrbxiw qaobnhqfmhqta cirqaf hjb
wmnh nbnnqta.

Hjb Ztafrbnn jmn sqnbwu drtoqcbc hjmh sb njmww yiqwc mh tazb ma
qnhjkqma zmamw, qx dtnnqywb mh Dmamkm. Hjb Mhhtrabu-Fbabrmw rbdtrhn
hjmh sb zma iactiyhbcwu mzgiqrb fttc hqhwb xrtk hjb Xrbazj Dmamkm Zmamw
Ztkdmau. Abfthqmhqtan mrb ats dbacqaf sqhj Ztwtkyqm ht nbzirb jbr
mnnbah ht tir yiqwcqaf hjb zmamw. Hjqn zmamw sqww yb tab tx hjb
frbmhbnh bafqabbrqaf xbmhn tx hjb hsbahqbhj zbahiru; m frbmhbr
bafqabbrqaf xbmh hjma jmn ubh ybba mzztkdwqnjbc cirqaf hjb jqnhtru tx
kmaeqac. Hjb stre njtiwc yb zmrrqbc tih mn m ztahqaiqaf dtwqzu sqhjtih
rbfmrc ht zjmafb tx Mckqaqnhrmhqta; mac qh njtiwc yb ybfia iacbr
zqrziknhmazbn sjqzj sqww kmeb qh m kmhhbr tx drqcb xtr mww
Mckqaqnhrmhqtan ht ztahqaib hjb dtwqzu.

Hjb zmamw sqww yb tx frbmh ybabxqh ht Mkbrqzm, mac tx qkdtrhmazb ht mww
hjb strwc. Qh sqww yb tx mcomahmfb ht in qacinhrqmwwu mac mwnt mn
qkdrtoqaf tir kqwqhmru dtnqhqta. Qh sqww yb tx mcomahmfb ht hjb
ztiahrqbn tx hrtdqzmw Mkbrqzm. Qh qn bmrabnhwu ht yb jtdbc hjmh mww tx
hjbnb ztiahrqbn sqww ct mn ntkb tx hjbk jmob mwrbmcu ctab sqhj nqfamw
nizzbnn, mac sqww qaoqhb ht hjbqr njtrbn ztkkbrzb mac qkdrtob hjbqr
kmhbrqmw ztacqhqtan yu rbztfaqpqaf hjmh nhmyqwqhu mac trcbr mrb hjb
drbrbgiqnqhbn tx nizzbnnxiw cbobwtdkbah. At qacbdbacbah amhqta qa
Mkbrqzm abbc jmob hjb nwqfjhbnh xbmr tx mffrbnnqta xrtk hjb Iaqhbc
Nhmhbn. Qh ybjtobn bmzj tab ht kmqahmqa trcbr sqhjqa qhn tsa ytrcbrn
mac ht cqnzjmrfb qhn linh tywqfmhqtan ht xtrbqfabrn. Sjba hjqn qn ctab,
hjbu zma rbnh mnnirbc hjmh, yb hjbu nhrtaf tr sbme, hjbu jmob athjqaf
ht crbmc xrtk tihnqcb qahbrxbrbazb. Ktrb mac ktrb hjb qazrbmnqaf
qahbrcbdbacbazb mac ztkdwbvqhu tx qahbramhqtamw dtwqhqzmw mac bztatkqz
rbwmhqtan rbacbr qh qazikybah ta mww zqoqwqpbc mac trcbrwu dtsbrn ht
qanqnh ta hjb drtdbr dtwqzqaf tx hjb strwc.

Cirqaf hjb xmww tx 1901 m ztkkiaqzmhqta smn mccrbnnbc ht hjb Nbzrbhmru
tx Nhmhb, mneqaf sjbhjbr dbrkqnnqta stiwc yb frmahbc yu hjb Drbnqcbah
ht m ztrdtrmhqta ht wmu m zmywb xrtk m dtqah ta hjb Zmwqxtraqm ztmnh ht
hjb Djqwqddqab Qnwmacn yu smu tx Jmsmqq. M nhmhbkbah tx ztacqhqtan tr
hbrkn idta sjqzj nizj ztrdtrmhqta stiwc iacbrhmeb ht wmu mac tdbrmhb m
zmywb smn otwiahbbrbc.

Qamnkizj mn hjb Ztafrbnn smn njtrhwu ht ztaobab, mac Dmzqxqz-zmywb
wbfqnwmhqta jmc ybba hjb niylbzh tx ztanqcbrmhqta yu hjb Ztafrbnn xtr
nbobrmw ubmrn, qh nbbkbc ht kb sqnb ht cbxbr mzhqta idta hjb
mddwqzmhqta iahqw hjb Ztafrbnn jmc xqrnh ma tddtrhiaqhu ht mzh. Hjb
Ztafrbnn mcltirabc sqhjtih hmeqaf mau mzhqta, wbmoqaf hjb kmhhbr qa
bvmzhwu hjb nmkb ztacqhqta qa sjqzj qh nhttc sjba hjb Ztafrbnn
ztaobabc.

Kbmasjqwb qh mddbmrn hjmh hjb Ztkkbrzqmw Dmzqxqz Zmywb Ztkdmau jmc
drtkdhwu drtzbbcbc sqhj drbdmrmhqtan xtr wmuqaf qhn zmywb. Qh mwnt kmcb
mddwqzmhqta ht hjb Drbnqcbah xtr mzzbnn ht mac inb tx ntiacqafn hmeba
yu hjb I. N. N. Abrt, xtr hjb dirdtnb tx cqnztobrqaf m drmzhqzmywb
rtihb xtr m hrman-Dmzqxqz zmywb, hjb ztkdmau irfqaf hjmh sqhj mzzbnn ht
hjbnb ntiacqafn qh ztiwc ztkdwbhb qhn zmywb kizj nttabr hjma qx qh sbrb
rbgiqrbc ht hmeb ntiacqafn idta qhn tsa mzztiah. Dbacqaf ztanqcbrmhqta
tx hjqn niylbzh, qh mddbmrbc qkdtrhmah mac cbnqrmywb ht mhhmzj zbrhmqa
ztacqhqtan ht hjb dbrkqnnqta ht bvmkqab mac inb hjb ntiacqafn, qx qh
njtiwc yb frmahbc.

Qa ztanbgibazb tx hjqn ntwqzqhmhqta tx hjb zmywb ztkdmau, zbrhmqa
ztacqhqtan sbrb xtrkiwmhbc, idta sjqzj hjb Drbnqcbah smn sqwwqaf ht
mwwts mzzbnn ht hjbnb ntiacqafn mac ht ztanbah ht hjb wmacqaf mac
wmuqaf tx hjb zmywb, niylbzh ht mau mwhbrmhqtan tr mccqhqtan hjbrbht
qkdtnbc yu hjb Ztafrbnn. Hjqn smn cbbkbc drtdbr, bndbzqmwwu mn qh smn
zwbmr hjmh m zmywb ztaabzhqta tx ntkb eqac sqhj Zjqam, m xtrbqfa
ztiahru, smn m dmrh tx hjb ztkdmau'n dwma. Hjqn ztirnb smn, ktrbtobr,
qa mzztrcmazb sqhj m wqab tx drbzbcbahn, qazwicqaf Drbnqcbah Frmah'n
mzhqta qa hjb zmnb tx hjb xqrnh Xrbazj zmywb, bvdwmqabc ht hjb Ztafrbnn
qa jqn Maaimw Kbnnmfb tx Cbzbkybr, 1875, mac hjb qanhmazb tzzirrqaf qa
1879 tx hjb nbztac Xrbazj zmywb xrtk Yrbnh ht Nh. Dqbrrb, sqhj m yrmazj
ht Zmdb Ztc.

Hjbnb ztacqhqtan drbnzrqybc, mktaf thjbr hjqafn, m kmvqkik rmhb xtr
ztkkbrzqmw kbnnmfbn mac hjmh hjb ztkdmau njtiwc ztanhrizh m wqab xrtk
hjb Djqwqddqab Qnwmacn ht Zjqam, hjbrb ybqaf mh drbnbah, mn qn sbww
eatsa, m Yrqhqnj wqab xrtk Kmaqwm ht Jtafetaf.

Hjb rbdrbnbahmhqobn tx hjb zmywb ztkdmau ebdh hjbnb ztacqhqtan wtaf
iacbr ztanqcbrmhqta, ztahqaiqaf, qa hjb kbmahqkb, ht drbdmrb xtr wmuqaf
hjb zmywb. Hjbu jmob, jtsbobr, mh wbafhj mzzbcbc ht hjbk, mac ma
mww-Mkbrqzma wqab ybhsbba tir Dmzqxqz ztmnh mac hjb Zjqabnb Bkdqrb, yu
smu tx Jtatwiwi mac hjb Djqwqddqab Qnwmacn, qn hjin drtoqcbc xtr, mac
qn bvdbzhbc sqhjqa m xbs ktahjn ht yb rbmcu xtr yinqabnn.

Mktaf hjb ztacqhqtan qn tab rbnbroqaf hjb dtsbr tx hjb Ztafrbnn ht
ktcqxu tr rbdbmw mau tr mww tx hjbk. M ztdu tx hjb ztacqhqtan qn
jbrbsqhj hrmankqhhbc.

Tx Dtrht Rqzt qh qn tawu abzbnnmru ht nmu hjmh hjb drtndbrqhu tx hjb
qnwmac mac hjb sqnctk sqhj sjqzj qh jmn ybba ftobrabc jmob ybba nizj mn
ht kmeb qh nbrob mn ma bvmkdwb tx mww hjmh qn ybnh qa qaniwmr
mckqaqnhrmhqta.

Ta Liwu 4 wmnh, ta hjb tab jiacrbc mac hsbahu-nqvhj maaqobrnmru tx hjb
cbzwmrmhqta tx tir qacbdbacbazb, dbmzb mac mkabnhu sbrb drtkiwfmhbc qa
hjb Djqwqddqab Qnwmacn. Ntkb hrtiywb jmn nqazb xrtk hqkb ht hqkb
hjrbmhbabc sqhj hjb Ktjmkkbcma Ktrtn, yih sqhj hjb wmhb qanirrbzhqtamru
Xqwqdqatn hjb smr jmn bahqrbwu zbmnbc. Zqoqw ftobrakbah jmn ats ybba
qahrtcizbc. Ath tawu ctbn bmzj Xqwqdqat baltu nizj rqfjhn ht wqxb,
wqybrhu, mac hjb dirniqh tx jmddqabnn mn jb jmn abobr ybxtrb eatsa
cirqaf hjb rbztrcbc jqnhtru tx hjb qnwmacn, yih hjb dbtdwb hmeba mn m
sjtwb ats baltu m kbmnirb tx nbwx-ftobrakbah frbmhbr hjma hjmh frmahbc
ht mau thjbr Trqbahmwn yu mau xtrbqfa dtsbr mac frbmhbr hjma hjmh
baltubc yu mau thjbr Trqbahmwn iacbr hjbqr tsa ftobrakbahn, nmob hjb
Lmdmabnb mwtab. Sb jmob ath ftab htt xmr qa frmahqaf hjbnb rqfjhn tx
wqybrhu mac nbwx-ftobrakbah; yih sb jmob zbrhmqawu ftab ht hjb wqkqh
hjmh qa hjb qahbrbnhn tx hjb Djqwqddqab dbtdwb hjbknbwobn qh smn sqnb
tr linh ht ft. Ht jirru kmhhbrn, ht ft xmnhbr hjma sb mrb ats ftqaf,
stiwc bahmqw zmwmkqhu ta hjb dbtdwb tx hjb qnwmacn. At dtwqzu bobr
bahbrbc qaht yu hjb Mkbrqzma dbtdwb jmn oqacqzmhbc qhnbwx qa ktrb
nqfamw kmaabr hjma hjb dtwqzu tx jtwcqaf hjb Djqwqddqabn. Hjb hrqikdj
tx tir mrkn, mytob mww hjb hrqikdj tx tir wmsn mac drqazqdwbn, jmn ztkb
nttabr hjma sb jmc mau rqfjh ht bvdbzh. Htt kizj drmqnb zma ath yb
fqoba ht hjb Mrku xtr sjmh qh jmn ctab qa hjb Djqwqddqabn ythj qa
smrxmrb mac xrtk ma mckqaqnhrmhqob nhmacdtqah qa drbdmrqaf hjb smu xtr
zqoqw ftobrakbah; mac nqkqwmr zrbcqh ybwtafn ht hjb zqoqw mihjtrqhqbn
xtr hjb smu qa sjqzj hjbu jmob dwmahbc hjb nbbcn tx nbwx-ftobrakbah qa
hjb frtiac hjin kmcb rbmcu xtr hjbk. Hjb ztirmfb, hjb iaxwqazjqaf
bacirmazb, hjb jqfj ntwcqbrwu bxxqzqbazu; mac hjb fbabrmw
eqac-jbmrhbcabnn mac jikmaqhu tx tir hrttdn jmob ybba nhrqeqafwu
kmaqxbnhbc. Hjbrb ats rbkmqa tawu ntkb xqxhbba hjtinmac hrttdn qa hjb
qnwmacn. Mww htwc, tobr tab jiacrbc hjtinmac jmob ybba nbah hjbrb. Tx
ztirnb, hjbrb jmob ybba qacqoqcimw qanhmazbn tx srtafctqaf mktaf hjbk.
Hjbu smrrbc iacbr xbmrxiw cqxxqziwhqbn tx zwqkmhb mac nirrtiacqafn; mac
iacbr hjb nhrmqa tx hjb hbrrqywb drtotzmhqtan sjqzj hjbu ztahqaimwwu
rbzbqobc xrtk hjbqr xtbn, tzzmnqtamw qanhmazbn tx zribw rbhmwqmhqta
tzzirrbc. Bobru bxxtrh jmn ybba kmcb ht drbobah nizj zribwhqbn, mac
xqamwwu hjbnb bxxtrhn jmob ybba ztkdwbhbwu nizzbnnxiw. Bobru bxxtrh jmn
mwnt ybba kmcb ht cbhbzh mac diaqnj hjb srtafctbrn. Mxhbr kmeqaf mww
mwwtsmazb xtr hjbnb kqncbbcn, qh rbkmqan hrib hjmh xbs qacbbc jmob ybba
hjb qanhmazbn qa sjqzj smr jmn ybba smfbc yu m zqoqwqpbc dtsbr mfmqanh
nbkqzqoqwqpbc tr ymrymrtin xtrzbn sjbrb hjbrb jmn ybba nt wqhhwb
srtafctqaf yu hjb oqzhtrn mn qa hjb Djqwqddqab Qnwmacn. Ta hjb thjbr
jmac, hjb mktiah tx cqxxqziwh, qkdtrhmah, mac ybabxqzbah stre sjqzj jmn
ybba ctab qn sbww-aqfj qazmwziwmywb.

Hmeqaf hjb stre tx hjb Mrku mac hjb zqoqw mihjtrqhqbn htfbhjbr, qh kmu
yb gibnhqtabc sjbhjbr mausjbrb bwnb qa ktcbra hqkbn hjb strwc jmn nbba
m ybhhbr bvmkdwb tx rbmw ztanhrizhqob nhmhbnkmanjqd hjma tir dbtdwb
jmob fqoba qa hjb Djqwqddqab Qnwmacn. Jqfj drmqnb njtiwc mwnt yb fqoba
hjtnb Xqwqdqatn, qa hjb mffrbfmhb obru aikbrtin, sjt jmob mzzbdhbc hjb
abs ztacqhqtan mac ltqabc sqhj tir rbdrbnbahmhqobn ht stre sqhj jbmrhu
fttc sqww xtr hjb sbwxmrb tx hjb qnwmacn.

Hjb Mrku jmn ybba rbcizbc ht hjb kqaqkik mwwtsbc yu wms. Qh qn obru
nkmww xtr hjb nqpb tx hjb Amhqta, mac ktnh zbrhmqawu njtiwc yb ebdh mh
hjb jqfjbnh dtqah tx bxxqzqbazu. Hjb nbaqtr txxqzbrn mrb fqoba nzmah
zjmazb iacbr trcqamru ztacqhqtan ht bvbrzqnb ztkkmacn ztkkbanirmhb sqhj
hjbqr rmae, iacbr zqrziknhmazbn sjqzj stiwc xqh hjbk ht ct hjbqr cihu
qa hqkb tx mzhimw smr. M nunhbk tx kmabiobrqaf tir Mrku qa ytcqbn tx
ntkb wqhhwb nqpb jmn ybba ybfia mac njtiwc yb nhbmcqwu ztahqaibc.
Sqhjtih nizj kmabiobrn qh qn xtwwu ht bvdbzh hjmh qa hjb bobah tx
jtnhqwqhqbn sqhj mau nbrqtin xtb boba m nkmww mrku ztrdn ztiwc yb
jmacwbc ht mcomahmfb. Ythj tir txxqzbrn mac bawqnhbc kba mrb nizj hjmh
sb zma hmeb jbmrhu drqcb qa hjbk. At ybhhbr kmhbrqmw zma yb xtiac. Yih
hjbu kinh yb hjtrtifjwu hrmqabc, ythj mn qacqoqcimwn mac qa hjb kmnn.
Hjb kmrenkmanjqd tx hjb kba kinh rbzbqob ndbzqmw mhhbahqta. Qa hjb
zqrziknhmazbn tx ktcbra smrxmrb hjb kma kinh mzh xmr ktrb ta jqn tsa
qacqoqcimw rbndtanqyqwqhu hjma bobr ybxtrb, mac hjb jqfj qacqoqcimw
bxxqzqbazu tx hjb iaqh qn tx hjb ihktnh qkdtrhmazb. Xtrkbrwu hjqn iaqh
smn hjb rbfqkbah; qh qn ats ath hjb rbfqkbah, ath boba hjb hrttd tr
ztkdmau; qh qn hjb qacqoqcimw ntwcqbr. Bobru bxxtrh kinh yb kmcb ht
cbobwtd bobru strekmawqeb mac ntwcqbrwu gimwqhu qa ythj hjb txxqzbr mac
hjb bawqnhbc kma.

Q irfbahwu zmww utir mhhbahqta ht hjb abbc tx dmnnqaf m yqww drtoqcqaf
xtr m fbabrmw nhmxx mac xtr hjb rbtrfmaqpmhqta tx hjb niddwu
cbdmrhkbahn ta hjb wqabn tx hjb yqww drtdtnbc yu hjb Nbzrbhmru tx Smr
wmnh ubmr. Sjba hjb utiaf txxqzbrn bahbr hjb Mrku xrtk Sbnh Dtqah hjbu
drtymywu nhmac mytob hjbqr ztkdbbrn qa mau thjbr kqwqhmru nbroqzb.
Bobru bxxtrh njtiwc yb kmcb, yu hrmqaqaf, yu rbsmrc tx kbrqh, yu
nzrihqau qaht hjbqr zmrbbrn mac zmdmzqhu, ht ebbd hjbk tx hjb nmkb jqfj
rbwmhqob bvzbwwbazb hjrtifjtih hjbqr zmrbbrn.

Hjb kbmnirb drtoqcqaf xtr hjb rbtrfmaqpmhqta tx hjb kqwqhqm nunhbk mac
xtr nbzirqaf hjb jqfjbnh bxxqzqbazu qa hjb Amhqtamw Fimrc, sjqzj jmn
mwrbmcu dmnnbc hjb Jtinb, njtiwc rbzbqob drtkdh mhhbahqta mac mzhqta.
Qh qn tx frbmh qkdtrhmazb hjmh hjb rbwmhqta tx hjb Amhqtamw Fimrc ht
hjb kqwqhqm mac otwiahbbr xtrzbn tx hjb Iaqhbc Nhmhbn njtiwc yb
cbxqabc, mac hjmh qa dwmzb tx tir drbnbah tyntwbhb wmsn m drmzhqzmw mac
bxxqzqbah nunhbk njtiwc yb mctdhbc.

Drtoqnqta njtiwc yb kmcb ht bamywb hjb Nbzrbhmru tx Smr ht ebbd zmomwru
mac mrhqwwbru jtrnbn, stra-tih qa wtaf dbrxtrkmazb tx cihu. Nizj jtrnbn
xbhzj yih m hrqxwb sjba ntwc; mac rmhjbr hjma hira hjbk tih ht hjb
kqnbru msmqhqaf hjbk sjba hjin cqndtnbc tx, qh stiwc yb ybhhbr ht
bkdwtu hjbk mh wqfjh stre mrtiac hjb dtnhn, mac sjba abzbnnmru ht dih
hjbk dmqawbnnwu ht cbmhj.

Xtr hjb xqrnh hqkb qa tir jqnhtru amomw kmabiobrn ta m wmrfb nzmwb mrb
ybqaf jbwc iacbr hjb qkkbcqmhb ztkkmac tx hjb Mckqrmw tx hjb Amou.
Ztanhmahwu qazrbmnqaf mhhbahqta qn ybqaf dmqc ht hjb fiaabru tx hjb
Amou, yih qh qn ubh xmr xrtk sjmh qh njtiwc yb. Q bmrabnhwu irfb hjmh
hjb qazrbmnb mnebc xtr yu hjb Nbzrbhmru tx hjb Amou qa hjb
mddrtdrqmhqta xtr qkdrtoqaf hjb kmrekmanjqd yb frmahbc. Qa ymhhwb hjb
tawu njthn hjmh ztiah mrb hjb njthn hjmh jqh. Qh qn abzbnnmru ht
drtoqcb mkdwb xiacn xtr drmzhqzb sqhj hjb frbmh fian qa hqkb tx dbmzb.
Hjbnb xiacn kinh drtoqcb ath tawu xtr hjb dirzjmnb tx drtlbzhqwbn, yih
xtr mwwtsmazbn xtr drqpbn ht baztirmfb hjb fia zrbsn, mac bndbzqmwwu
hjb fia dtqahbrn, mac xtr dbrxbzhqaf ma qahbwwqfbah nunhbk iacbr sjqzj
mwtab qh qn dtnnqywb ht fbh fttc drmzhqzb.

Hjbrb njtiwc yb at jmwh qa hjb stre tx yiqwcqaf id hjb Amou, drtoqcqaf
bobru ubmr mccqhqtamw xqfjhqaf zrmxh. Sb mrb m obru rqzj ztiahru, omnh
qa bvhbah tx hbrrqhtru mac frbmh qa dtdiwmhqta; m ztiahru, ktrbtobr,
sjqzj jmn ma Mrku cqkqaihqob qacbbc sjba ztkdmrbc sqhj hjmh tx mau
thjbr xqrnh-zwmnn dtsbr. Sb jmob cbwqybrmhbwu kmcb tir tsa zbrhmqa
xtrbqfa dtwqzqbn sjqzj cbkmac hjb dtnnbnnqta tx m xqrnh-zwmnn amou. Hjb
qnhjkqma zmamw sqww frbmhwu qazrbmnb hjb bxxqzqbazu tx tir Amou qx hjb
Amou qn tx nixxqzqbah nqpb; yih qx sb jmob ma qamcbgimhb amou, hjba hjb
yiqwcqaf tx hjb zmamw stiwc yb kbrbwu fqoqaf m jtnhmfb ht mau dtsbr tx
nidbrqtr nhrbafhj. Hjb Ktartb Ctzhrqab njtiwc yb hrbmhbc mn hjb
zmrcqamw xbmhirb tx Mkbrqzma xtrbqfa dtwqzu; yih qh stiwc yb strnb hjma
qcwb ht mnnbrh qh iawbnn sb qahbacbc ht ymze qh id, mac qh zma yb
ymzebc id tawu yu m hjtrtifjwu fttc amou. M fttc amou qn ath m
drtotzmhqob tx smr. Qh qn hjb nirbnh fimrmahu tx dbmzb.

Bmzj qacqoqcimw iaqh tx tir Amou njtiwc yb hjb ktnh bxxqzqbah tx qhn
eqac mn rbfmrcn ythj kmhbrqmw mac dbrntaabw hjmh qn ht yb xtiac qa hjb
strwc. Q zmww utir ndbzqmw mhhbahqta ht hjb abbc tx drtoqcqaf xtr hjb
kmaaqaf tx hjb njqdn. Nbrqtin hrtiywb hjrbmhban in qx sb zma ath ct
ybhhbr hjma sb mrb ats ctqaf mn rbfmrcn nbzirqaf hjb nbroqzbn tx m
nixxqzqbah aikybr tx hjb jqfjbnh hudb tx nmqwtrkba, tx nbm kbzjmaqzn.
Hjb obhbrma nbmkba tx tir smr njqdn mrb tx mn jqfj m hudb mn zma yb
xtiac qa mau amou sjqzj rqcbn hjb smhbrn tx hjb strwc; hjbu mrb
ianirdmnnbc qa cmrqaf, qa rbntwihqta, qa rbmcqabnn, qa hjtrtifj
eatswbcfb tx hjbqr drtxbnnqta. Hjbu cbnbrob bobru ztanqcbrmhqta hjmh
zma yb njtsa hjbk. Yih hjbrb mrb ath batifj tx hjbk. Qh qn at ktrb
dtnnqywb ht qkdrtoqnb m zrbs hjma qh qn dtnnqywb ht qkdrtoqnb m smr
njqd. Ht yiqwc hjb xqabnh njqd, sqhj hjb cbmcwqbnh ymhhbru, mac ht nbac
qh mxwtmh sqhj m rms zrbs, at kmhhbr jts yrmob hjbu sbrb qacqoqcimwwu,
stiwc yb ht qanirb cqnmnhbr qx m xtb tx mobrmfb zmdmzqhu sbrb
baztiahbrbc. Abqhjbr njqdn atr kba zma yb qkdrtoqnbc sjba smr jmn
ybfia.

Sb abbc m hjtinmac mccqhqtamw txxqzbrn qa trcbr ht drtdbrwu kma hjb
njqdn ats drtoqcbc xtr mac iacbr ztanhrizhqta. Hjb zwmnnbn mh hjb Amomw
Nzjttw mh Maamdtwqn njtiwc yb frbmhwu bawmrfbc. Mh hjb nmkb hqkb hjmh
sb hjin mcc hjb txxqzbrn sjbrb sb abbc hjbk, sb njtiwc xmzqwqhmhb hjb
rbhqrbkbah tx hjtnb mh hjb jbmc tx hjb wqnh sjtnb inbxiwabnn jmn ybztkb
qkdmqrbc. Drtkthqta kinh yb xtnhbrbc qx hjb nbroqzb qn ht yb ebdh
bxxqzqbah.

Hjb wmkbahmywb nzmrzqhu tx txxqzbrn, mac hjb wmrfb aikybr tx rbzriqhn
mac tx ianeqwwbc kba abzbnnmrqwu dih mytmrc hjb abs obnnbwn mn hjbu
jmob ybba ztkkqnnqtabc, jmn hjrtsa idta tir txxqzbrn, mac bndbzqmwwu ta
hjb wqbihbamahn mac liaqtr frmcbn, iainimw wmytr mac xmhqfib mac jmn
frmobwu nhrmqabc hjbqr dtsbrn tx bacirmazb. Atr qn hjbrb nqfa tx mau
qkkbcqmhb wbh-id qa hjqn nhrmqa. Qh kinh ztahqaib xtr ntkb hqkb wtafbr,
iahqw ktrb txxqzbrn mrb frmcimhbc xrtk Maamdtwqn, mac iahqw hjb
rbzriqhn ybztkb hrmqabc mac neqwwxiw qa hjbqr cihqbn. Qa hjbnb
cqxxqziwhqbn qazqcbah idta hjb cbobwtdkbah tx tir smr xwbbh hjb ztacizh
tx mww tir txxqzbrn jmn ybba zrbcqhmywb ht hjb nbroqzb, mac hjb
wqbihbamahn mac liaqtr frmcbn qa dmrhqziwmr jmob cqndwmubc ma myqwqhu
mac m nhbmcxmnh zjbbrxiwabnn sjqzj bahqhwbn hjbk ht hjb iafricfqaf
hjmaen tx mww sjt rbmwqpb hjb cqnjbmrhbaqaf hrqmwn mac xmhqfibn ht
sjqzj hjbu mrb tx abzbnnqhu niylbzhbc.

Hjbrb qn ath m zwtic ta hjb jtrqpta mh drbnbah. Hjbrb nbbkn ath hjb
nwqfjhbnh zjmazb tx hrtiywb sqhj m xtrbqfa dtsbr. Sb ktnh bmrabnhwu
jtdb hjmh hjqn nhmhb tx hjqafn kmu ztahqaib; mac hjb smu ht qanirb qhn
ztahqaimazb qn ht drtoqcb xtr m hjtrtifjwu bxxqzqbah amou. Hjb rbxinmw
ht kmqahmqa nizj m amou stiwc qaoqhb hrtiywb, mac qx hrtiywb zmkb stiwc
qanirb cqnmnhbr. Xmhitin nbwx-ztkdwmzbazu tr omaqhu, tr
njtrh-nqfjhbcabnn qa rbxinqaf ht drbdmrb xtr cmafbr, qn ythj xttwqnj
mac sqzebc qa nizj m amhqta mn tirn; mac dmnh bvdbrqbazb jmn njtsa hjmh
nizj xmhiqhu qa rbxinqaf ht rbztfaqpb tr drbdmrb xtr mau zrqnqn qa
mcomazb qn inimwwu nizzbbcbc yu m kmc dmaqz tx junhbrqzmw xbmr tazb hjb
zrqnqn jmn mzhimwwu mrrqobc.

Hjb nhrqeqaf qazrbmnb qa hjb rbobaibn tx hjb Dtnh-Txxqzb Cbdmrhkbah
njtsn zwbmrwu hjb drtndbrqhu tx tir dbtdwb mac hjb qazrbmnqaf mzhqoqhu
tx hjb yinqabnn tx hjb ztiahru.

Hjb rbzbqdhn tx hjb Dtnh-Txxqzb Cbdmrhkbah xtr hjb xqnzmw ubmr bacqaf
Liab 30 wmnh mktiahbc ht $121,848,047.26, ma qazrbmnb tx $10,216,853.87
tobr hjb drbzbcqaf ubmr, hjb wmrfbnh qazrbmnb eatsa qa hjb jqnhtru tx
hjb dtnhmw nbroqzb. Hjb kmfaqhicb tx hjqn qazrbmnb sqww ybnh mddbmr
xrtk hjb xmzh hjmh hjb bahqrb dtnhmw rbzbqdhn xtr hjb ubmr 1860
mktiahbc ht yih $8,518,067.

Rirmw xrbb-cbwqobru nbroqzb qn at wtafbr qa hjb bvdbrqkbahmw nhmfb; qh
jmn ybztkb m xqvbc dtwqzu. Hjb rbniwhn xtwwtsqaf qhn qahrtcizhqta jmob
xiwwu linhqxqbc hjb Ztafrbnn qa hjb wmrfb mddrtdrqmhqtan kmcb xtr qhn
bnhmywqnjkbah mac bvhbanqta. Hjb mobrmfb ubmrwu qazrbmnb qa dtnh-txxqzb
rbzbqdhn qa hjb rirmw cqnhrqzhn tx hjb ztiahru qn mytih hst dbr zbah.
Sb mrb ats mywb, yu mzhimw rbniwhn, ht njts hjmh sjbrb rirmw
xrbb-cbwqobru nbroqzb jmn ybba bnhmywqnjbc ht nizj ma bvhbah mn ht
bamywb in ht kmeb ztkdmrqntan hjb ubmrwu qazrbmnb jmn ybba idsmrc tx
hba dbr zbah.

Ta Atobkybr 1, 1902, 11,650 rirmw xrbb-cbwqobru rtihbn jmc ybba
bnhmywqnjbc mac sbrb qa tdbrmhqta, ztobrqaf mytih tab-hjqrc tx hjb
hbrrqhtru tx hjb Iaqhbc Nhmhbn momqwmywb xtr rirmw xrbb-cbwqobru
nbroqzb. Hjbrb mrb ats msmqhqaf hjb mzhqta tx hjb Cbdmrhkbah dbhqhqtan
mac mddwqzmhqtan xtr hjb bnhmywqnjkbah tx 10,748 mccqhqtamw rtihbn.
Hjqn njtsn ztazwinqobwu hjb smah sjqzj hjb bnhmywqnjkbah tx hjb nbroqzb
jmn kbh mac hjb abbc tx xirhjbr bvhbacqaf qh mn rmdqcwu mn dtnnqywb. Qh
qn linhqxqbc ythj yu hjb xqamazqmw rbniwhn mac yu hjb drmzhqzmw
ybabxqhn ht tir rirmw dtdiwmhqta; qh yrqafn hjb kba sjt wqob ta hjb
ntqw qaht zwtnb rbwmhqtan sqhj hjb mzhqob yinqabnn strwc; qh ebbdn hjb
xmrkbr qa cmqwu htizj sqhj hjb kmrebhn; qh qn m dthbahqmw bcizmhqtamw
xtrzb; qh bajmazbn hjb omwib tx xmrk drtdbrhu, kmebn xmrk wqxb xmr
dwbmnmahbr mac wbnn qntwmhbc, mac sqww ct kizj ht zjbze hjb iacbnqrmywb
zirrbah xrtk ztiahru ht zqhu.

Qh qn ht yb jtdbc hjmh hjb Ztafrbnn sqww kmeb wqybrmw mddrtdrqmhqtan
xtr hjb ztahqaimazb tx hjb nbroqzb mwrbmcu bnhmywqnjbc mac xtr qhn
xirhjbr bvhbanqta.

Xbs niylbzhn tx ktrb qkdtrhmazb jmob ybba hmeba id yu hjb Ztafrbnn qa
rbzbah ubmrn hjma hjb qamifirmhqta tx hjb nunhbk tx amhqtamwwu-mqcbc
qrrqfmhqta xtr hjb mrqc rbfqtan tx hjb xmr Sbnh. M fttc ybfqaaqaf
hjbrbqa jmn ybba kmcb. Ats hjmh hjqn dtwqzu tx amhqtamw qrrqfmhqta jmn
ybba mctdhbc, hjb abbc tx hjtrtifj mac nzqbahqxqz xtrbnh drthbzhqta
sqww frts ktrb rmdqcwu hjma bobr hjrtifjtih hjb diywqz-wmac Nhmhbn.

Wbfqnwmhqta njtiwc yb drtoqcbc xtr hjb drthbzhqta tx hjb fmkb, mac hjb
sqwc zrbmhirbn fbabrmwwu, ta hjb xtrbnh rbnbrobn. Hjb nbanbwbnn
nwmifjhbr tx fmkb, sjqzj zma yu licqzqtin drthbzhqta yb dbrkmabahwu
drbnbrobc ta tir amhqtamw rbnbrobn xtr hjb dbtdwb mn m sjtwb, njtiwc yb
nhtddbc mh tazb. Qh qn, xtr qanhmazb, m nbrqtin ztiah mfmqanh tir
amhqtamw fttc nbanb ht dbrkqh hjb drbnbah drmzhqzb tx yihzjbrqaf txx
nizj m nhmhbwu mac ybmihqxiw zrbmhirb mn hjb bwe xtr qhn mahwbrn tr
hinen.

Nt xmr mn hjbu mrb momqwmywb xtr mfrqziwhirb, mac ht sjmhbobr bvhbah
hjbu kmu yb rbzwmqkbc iacbr hjb amhqtamw qrrqfmhqta wms, hjb rbkmqaqaf
diywqz wmacn njtiwc yb jbwc rqfqcwu xtr hjb jtkb yiqwcbr, hjb nbhhwbr
sjt wqobn ta jqn wmac, mac xtr at tab bwnb. Qa hjbqr mzhimw inb hjb
cbnbrh-wmac wms, hjb hqkybr mac nhtab wms, mac hjb ztkkihmhqta zwminb
tx hjb jtkbnhbmc wms jmob ybba nt dbrobrhbc xrtk hjb qahbahqta sqhj
sjqzj hjbu sbrb bamzhbc mn ht dbrkqh hjb mzgiqnqhqta tx wmrfb mrbmn tx
hjb diywqz ctkmqa xtr thjbr hjma mzhimw nbhhwbrn mac hjb ztanbgibah
drbobahqta tx nbhhwbkbah. Ktrbtobr, hjb mddrtmzjqaf bvjminhqta tx hjb
diywqz rmafbn jmn tx wmhb wbc ht kizj cqnzinnqta mn ht hjb ybnh kmaabr
tx inqaf hjbnb diywqz wmacn qa hjb Sbnh sjqzj mrb niqhmywb zjqbxwu tr
tawu xtr frmpqaf. Hjb ntiac mac nhbmcu cbobwtdkbah tx hjb Sbnh cbdbacn
idta hjb yiqwcqaf id tx jtkbn hjbrbqa. Kizj tx tir drtndbrqhu mn m
amhqta jmn ybba cib ht hjb tdbrmhqta tx hjb jtkbnhbmc wms. Ta hjb thjbr
jmac, sb njtiwc rbztfaqpb hjb xmzh hjmh qa hjb frmpqaf rbfqta hjb kma
sjt ztrrbndtacn ht hjb jtkbnhbmcbr kmu yb iamywb ht nbhhwb dbrkmabahwu
qx tawu mwwtsbc ht inb hjb nmkb mktiah tx dmnhirb wmac hjmh jqn
yrthjbr, hjb jtkbnhbmcbr, qn mwwtsbc ht inb tx mrmywb wmac. Tab jiacrbc
mac nqvhu mzrbn tx xmqrwu rqzj mac sbww-smhbrbc ntqw, tr m kizj nkmwwbr
mktiah tx qrrqfmhbc wmac, kmu ebbd m xmkqwu qa dwbahu, sjbrbmn at tab
ztiwc fbh m wqoqaf xrtk tab jiacrbc mac nqvhu mzrbn tx cru dmnhirb wmac
zmdmywb tx niddtrhqaf mh hjb tihnqcb tawu tab jbmc tx zmhhwb ht bobru
hba mzrbn. Qa hjb dmnh frbmh hrmzhn tx hjb diywqz ctkmqa jmob ybba
xbazbc qa yu dbrntan jmoqaf at hqhwb hjbrbht, qa cqrbzh cbxqmazb tx hjb
wms xtryqccqaf hjb kmqahbamazb tr ztanhrizhqta tx mau nizj iawmsxiw
qazwtnirb tx diywqz wmac. Xtr omrqtin rbmntan hjbrb jmn ybba wqhhwb
qahbrxbrbazb sqhj nizj qazwtnirbn qa hjb dmnh, yih mkdwb athqzb jmn ats
ybba fqoba hjb hrbndmnnbrn, mac mww hjb rbntirzbn mh hjb ztkkmac tx hjb
Ftobrakbah sqww jbrbmxhbr yb inbc ht dih m nhtd ht nizj hrbndmnnqaf.

Qa oqbs tx hjb zmdqhmw qkdtrhmazb tx hjbnb kmhhbrn, Q ztkkbac hjbk ht
hjb bmrabnh ztanqcbrmhqta tx hjb Ztafrbnn, mac qx hjb Ztafrbnn xqacn
cqxxqziwhu qa cbmwqaf sqhj hjbk xrtk wmze tx hjtrtifj eatswbcfb tx hjb
niylbzh, Q rbztkkbac hjmh drtoqnqta yb kmcb xtr m ztkkqnnqta tx bvdbrhn
ndbzqmwwu ht qaobnhqfmhb mac rbdtrh idta hjb ztkdwqzmhbc gibnhqtan
qaotwobc.

Q bndbzqmwwu irfb idta hjb Ztafrbnn hjb abbc tx sqnb wbfqnwmhqta xtr
Mwmnem. Qh qn ath ht tir zrbcqh mn m amhqta hjmh Mwmnem, sjqzj jmn ybba
tirn xtr hjqrhu-xqob ubmrn, njtiwc nhqww jmob mn dttr m nunhbk Tx wmsn
mn qn hjb zmnb. At ztiahru jmn m ktrb omwimywb dtnnbnnqta--qa kqabrmw
sbmwhj, qa xqnjbrqbn, xirn, xtrbnhn, mac mwnt qa wmac momqwmywb xtr
zbrhmqa eqacn tx xmrkqaf mac nhtzefrtsqaf. Qh qn m hbrrqhtru tx frbmh
nqpb mac omrqbc rbntirzbn, sbww xqhhbc ht niddtrh m wmrfb dbrkmabah
dtdiwmhqta. Mwmnem abbcn m fttc wmac wms mac nizj drtoqnqtan xtr
jtkbnhbmcn mac drb-bkdhqtan mn sqww baztirmfb dbrkmabah nbhhwbkbah. Sb
njtiwc njmdb wbfqnwmhqta sqhj m oqbs ath ht hjb bvdwtqhqaf mac
mymactaqaf tx hjb hbrrqhtru, yih ht hjb yiqwcqaf id tx jtkbn hjbrbqa.
Hjb wmac wmsn njtiwc yb wqybrmw qa hudb, nt mn ht jtwc tih qacizbkbahn
ht hjb mzhimw nbhhwbr sjtk sb ktnh cbnqrb ht nbb hmeb dtnnbnnqta tx hjb
ztiahru. Hjb xtrbnhn tx Mwmnem njtiwc yb drthbzhbc, mac, mn m nbztacmru
yih nhqww qkdtrhmah kmhhbr, hjb fmkb mwnt, mac mh hjb nmkb hqkb qh qn
qkdbrmhqob hjmh hjb nbhhwbrn njtiwc yb mwwtsbc ht zih hqkybr, iacbr
drtdbr rbfiwmhqtan, xtr hjbqr tsa inb. Wmsn njtiwc yb bamzhbc ht
drthbzh hjb Mwmnema nmwkta xqnjbrqbn mfmqanh hjb frbbc sjqzj stiwc
cbnhrtu hjbk. Hjbu njtiwc yb drbnbrobc mn m dbrkmabah qacinhru mac xttc
niddwu. Hjbqr kmamfbkbah mac ztahrtw njtiwc yb hirabc tobr ht hjb
Ztkkqnnqta tx Xqnj mac Xqnjbrqbn. Mwmnem njtiwc jmob m Cbwbfmhb qa hjb
Ztafrbnn. Qh stiwc yb sbww qx m Ztafrbnnqtamw ztkkqhhbb ztiwc oqnqh
Mwmnem mac qaobnhqfmhb qhn abbcn ta hjb frtiac.

Qa cbmwqaf sqhj hjb Qacqman tir mqk njtiwc yb hjbqr iwhqkmhb myntrdhqta
qaht hjb ytcu tx tir dbtdwb. Yih qa kmau zmnbn hjqn myntrdhqta kinh mac
njtiwc yb obru nwts. Qa dtrhqtan tx hjb Qacqma Hbrrqhtru hjb kqvhirb tx
ywttc jmn ftab ta mh hjb nmkb hqkb sqhj drtfrbnn qa sbmwhj mac
bcizmhqta, nt hjmh hjbrb mrb dwbahu tx kba sqhj omruqaf cbfrbbn tx
dirqhu tx Qacqma ywttc sjt mrb myntwihbwu qacqnhqafiqnjmywb qa dtqah tx
ntzqmw, dtwqhqzmw, mac bztatkqz myqwqhu xrtk hjbqr sjqhb mnntzqmhbn.
Hjbrb mrb thjbr hrqybn sjqzj jmob mn ubh kmcb at dbrzbdhqywb mcomazb
htsmrc nizj bgimwqhu. Ht hru ht xtrzb nizj hrqybn htt xmnh qn ht
drbobah hjbqr ftqaf xtrsmrc mh mww. Ktrbtobr, hjb hrqybn wqob iacbr
sqcbwu cqxxbrbah ztacqhqtan. Sjbrb m hrqyb jmn kmcb ztanqcbrmywb
mcomazb mac wqobn ta xbrhqwb xmrkqaf ntqw qh qn dtnnqywb ht mwwth hjb
kbkybrn wmacn qa nbobrmwhu kizj mn qn hjb zmnb sqhj sjqhb nbhhwbrn.
Hjbrb mrb thjbr hrqybn sjbrb nizj m ztirnb qn ath cbnqrmywb. Ta hjb
mrqc drmqrqb wmacn hjb bxxtrh njtiwc yb ht qacizb hjb Qacqman ht wbmc
dmnhtrmw rmhjbr hjma mfrqziwhirmw wqobn, mac ht dbrkqh hjbk ht nbhhwb
qa oqwwmfbn rmhjbr hjma ht xtrzb hjbk qaht qntwmhqta.

Hjb wmrfb Qacqma nzjttwn nqhimhbc rbkthb xrtk mau Qacqma rbnbromhqta ct
m ndbzqmw mac dbziwqmr stre tx frbmh qkdtrhmazb. Yih, bvzbwwbah hjtifj
hjbnb mrb, ma qkkbanb mktiah tx mccqhqtamw stre kinh yb ctab ta hjb
rbnbromhqtan hjbknbwobn mktaf hjb twc, mac mytob mww mktaf hjb utiaf,
Qacqman.

Hjb xqrnh mac ktnh qkdtrhmah nhbd htsmrc hjb myntrdhqta tx hjb Qacqma
qn ht hbmzj jqk ht bmra jqn wqoqaf; ubh qh qn ath abzbnnmrqwu ht yb
mnnikbc hjmh qa bmzj ztkkiaqhu mww Qacqman kinh ybztkb bqhjbr hqwwbrn
tx hjb ntqw tr nhtze rmqnbrn. Hjbqr qacinhrqbn kmu drtdbrwu yb
cqobrnqxqbc, mac hjtnb sjt njts ndbzqmw cbnqrb tr mcmdhmyqwqhu xtr
qacinhrqmw tr boba ztkkbrzqmw dirniqhn njtiwc yb baztirmfbc nt xmr mn
drmzhqzmywb ht xtwwts tih bmzj jqn tsa ybah.

Bobru bxxtrh njtiwc yb kmcb ht cbobwtd hjb Qacqma mwtaf hjb wqabn tx
amhirmw mdhqhicb, mac ht baztirmfb hjb bvqnhqaf amhqob qacinhrqbn
dbziwqmr ht zbrhmqa hrqybn, nizj mn hjb omrqtin eqacn tx ymnebh
sbmoqaf, zmatb yiqwcqaf, nkqhj stre, mac ywmaebh stre. Mytob mww, hjb
Qacqma ytun mac fqrwn njtiwc yb fqoba ztaxqcbah ztkkmac tx ztwwtgiqmw
Bafwqnj, mac njtiwc trcqamrqwu yb drbdmrbc xtr m oqftrtin nhriffwb sqhj
hjb ztacqhqtan iacbr sjqzj hjbqr dbtdwb wqob, rmhjbr hjma xtr qkkbcqmhb
myntrdhqta qaht ntkb ktrb jqfjwu cbobwtdbc ztkkiaqhu.

Hjb txxqzqmwn sjt rbdrbnbah hjb Ftobrakbah qa cbmwqaf sqhj hjb Qacqman
stre iacbr jmrc ztacqhqtan, mac mwnt iacbr ztacqhqtan sjqzj rbacbr qh
bmnu ht ct srtaf mac obru cqxxqziwh ht cbhbzh srtaf. Ztanbgibahwu hjbu
njtiwc yb mkdwu dmqc ta hjb tab jmac, mac ta hjb thjbr jmac m
dmrhqziwmrwu jqfj nhmacmrc tx ztacizh njtiwc yb cbkmacbc xrtk hjbk, mac
sjbrb kqnztacizh zma yb drtobc hjb diaqnjkbah njtiwc yb bvbkdwmru.

Qa at cbdmrhkbah tx ftobrakbahmw stre qa rbzbah ubmrn jmn hjbrb ybba
frbmhbr nizzbnn hjma qa hjmh tx fqoqaf nzqbahqxqz mqc ht hjb xmrkqaf
dtdiwmhqta, hjbrbyu njtsqaf hjbk jts ktnh bxxqzqbahwu ht jbwd
hjbknbwobn. Hjbrb qn at abbc tx qanqnhqaf idta qhn qkdtrhmazb, xtr hjb
sbwxmrb tx hjb xmrkbr qn xiacmkbahmwwu abzbnnmru ht hjb sbwxmrb tx hjb
Rbdiywqz mn m sjtwb. Qa mccqhqta ht nizj stre mn gimrmahqab mfmqanh
maqkmw mac obfbhmywb dwmfibn, mac smrrqaf mfmqanh hjbk sjba jbrb
qahrtcizbc, kizj bxxqzqbah jbwd jmn ybba rbacbrbc ht hjb xmrkbr yu hjb
qahrtcizhqta tx abs dwmahn ndbzqmwwu xqhhbc xtr ziwhqomhqta iacbr hjb
dbziwqmr ztacqhqtan bvqnhqaf qa cqxxbrbah dtrhqtan tx hjb ztiahru. Abs
zbrbmwn jmob ybba bnhmywqnjbc qa hjb nbkq-mrqc Sbnh. Xtr qanhmazb, hjb
drmzhqzmyqwqhu tx drtcizqaf hjb ybnh hudbn tx kmzmrtaq sjbmhn qa
rbfqtan tx ma maaimw rmqaxmww tx tawu hba qazjbn tr hjbrbmytihn jmn
ybba ztazwinqobwu cbktanhrmhbc. Hjrtifj hjb qahrtcizhqta tx abs rqzbn
qa Wtiqnqmam mac Hbvmn hjb drtcizhqta tx rqzb qa hjqn ztiahru jmn ybba
kmcb ht mytih bgimw hjb jtkb cbkmac. Qa hjb Ntihj-sbnh hjb dtnnqyqwqhu
tx rbfrmnnqaf tobrnhtzebc rmafb wmacn jmn ybba cbktanhrmhbc; qa hjb
Atrhj kmau abs xtrmfb zrtdn jmob ybba qahrtcizbc, sjqwb qa hjb Bmnh qh
jmn ybba njtsa hjmh ntkb tx tir zjtqzbnh xriqhn zma yb nhtrbc mac
njqddbc qa nizj m smu mn ht xqac m drtxqhmywb kmrebh myrtmc.

Q mfmqa rbztkkbac ht hjb xmotrmywb ztanqcbrmhqta tx hjb Ztafrbnn hjb
dwman tx hjb Nkqhjntaqma Qanhqhihqta xtr kmeqaf hjb Kinbik iacbr qhn
zjmrfb strhju tx hjb Amhqta, mac xtr drbnbroqaf mh hjb Amhqtamw Zmdqhmw
ath tawu rbztrcn tx hjb omaqnjqaf rmzbn tx kba yih tx hjb maqkmwn tx
hjqn ztahqabah sjqzj, wqeb hjb yixxmwt, sqww ntta ybztkb bvhqazh iawbnn
ndbzqkban xrtk sjqzj hjbqr rbdrbnbahmhqobn kmu yb rbabsbc mrb ntifjh qa
hjbqr amhqob rbfqtan mac kmqahmqabc hjbrb qa nmxbhu.

Hjb Cqnhrqzh tx Ztwikyqm qn hjb tawu dmrh tx tir hbrrqhtru qa sjqzj hjb
Amhqtamw Ftobrakbah bvbrzqnbn wtzmw tr kiaqzqdmw xiazhqtan, mac sjbrb
qa ztanbgibazb hjb Ftobrakbah jmn m xrbb jmac qa rbxbrbazb ht zbrhmqa
hudbn tx ntzqmw mac bztatkqz wbfqnwmhqta sjqzj kinh yb bnnbahqmwwu
wtzmw tr kiaqzqdmw qa hjbqr zjmrmzhbr. Hjb Ftobrakbah njtiwc nbb ht qh,
xtr qanhmazb, hjmh hjb jufqbaqz mac nmaqhmru wbfqnwmhqta mxxbzhqaf
Smnjqafhta qn tx m jqfj zjmrmzhbr. Hjb boqwn tx nwik csbwwqafn, sjbhjbr
qa hjb njmdb tx zrtscbc mac ztafbnhbc hbabkbah-jtinb cqnhrqzhn tr tx
hjb ymze-mwwbu hudb, njtiwc abobr yb dbrkqhhbc ht frts id qa
Smnjqafhta. Hjb zqhu njtiwc yb m ktcbw qa bobru rbndbzh xtr mww hjb
zqhqbn tx hjb ztiahru. Hjb zjmrqhmywb mac ztrrbzhqtamw nunhbkn tx hjb
Cqnhrqzh njtiwc rbzbqob ztanqcbrmhqta mh hjb jmacn tx hjb Ztafrbnn ht
hjb bac hjmh hjbu kmu bkytcu hjb rbniwhn tx hjb ktnh mcomazbc hjtifjh
qa hjbnb xqbwcn. Ktrbtobr, sjqwb Smnjqafhta qn ath m frbmh qacinhrqmw
zqhu, hjbrb qn ntkb qacinhrqmwqnk jbrb, mac tir wmytr wbfqnwmhqta,
sjqwb qh stiwc ath yb qkdtrhmah qa qhnbwx, kqfjh yb kmcb m ktcbw xtr
hjb rbnh tx hjb Amhqta. Sb njtiwc dmnn, xtr qanhmazb, m sqnb
bkdwtubr'n-wqmyqwqhu mzh xtr hjb Cqnhrqzh tx Ztwikyqm, mac sb abbc nizj
ma mzh qa tir amou-umrcn. Rmqwrtmc ztkdmaqbn qa hjb Cqnhrqzh tifjh ht
yb rbgiqrbc yu wms ht ywtze hjbqr xrtfn.

Hjb nmxbhu-mddwqmazb wms, xtr hjb ybhhbr drthbzhqta tx hjb wqobn mac
wqkyn tx rmqwsmu bkdwtubbn, sjqzj smn dmnnbc qa 1893, sbah qaht xiww
bxxbzh ta Mifinh 1, 1901. Qh jmn rbniwhbc qa mobrhqaf hjtinmacn tx
zmnimwhqbn. Bvdbrqbazb njtsn, jtsbobr, hjb abzbnnqhu tx mccqhqtamw
wbfqnwmhqta ht dbrxbzh hjqn wms. M yqww ht drtoqcb xtr hjqn dmnnbc hjb
Nbamhb mh hjb wmnh nbnnqta. Qh qn ht yb jtdbc hjmh ntkb nizj kbmnirb
kmu ats yb bamzhbc qaht wms.

Hjbrb qn m frtsqaf hbacbazu ht drtoqcb xtr hjb diywqzmhqta tx kmnnbn tx
ctzikbahn xtr sjqzj hjbrb qn at diywqz cbkmac mac xtr hjb drqahqaf tx
sjqzj hjbrb qn at rbmw abzbnnqhu. Wmrfb aikybrn tx otwikbn mrb hirabc
tih yu hjb Ftobrakbah drqahqaf drbnnbn xtr sjqzj hjbrb qn at
linhqxqzmhqta. Athjqaf njtiwc yb drqahbc yu mau tx hjb Cbdmrhkbahn
iawbnn qh ztahmqan ntkbhjqaf tx dbrkmabah omwib, mac hjb Ztafrbnn ztiwc
sqhj mcomahmfb zih ctsa obru kmhbrqmwwu ta mww hjb drqahqaf sjqzj qh
jmn ats ybztkb zinhtkmru ht drtoqcb. Hjb bvzbnnqob ztnh tx Ftobrakbah
drqahqaf qn m nhrtaf mrfikbah mfmqanh hjb dtnqhqta tx hjtnb sjt mrb
qazwqabc ta mynhrmzh frtiacn ht mcotzmhb hjb Ftobrakbah'n ctqaf mau
stre sjqzj zma sqhj drtdrqbhu yb wbxh qa drqomhb jmacn.

Frmhqxuqaf drtfrbnn jmn ybba kmcb cirqaf hjb ubmr qa hjb bvhbanqta tx
hjb kbrqh nunhbk tx kmeqaf mddtqahkbahn qa hjb Ftobrakbah nbroqzb. Qh
njtiwc yb bvhbacbc yu wms ht hjb Cqnhrqzh tx Ztwikyqm. Qh qn kizj ht yb
cbnqrbc hjmh tir ztaniwmr nunhbk yb bnhmywqnjbc yu wms ta m ymnqn
drtoqcqaf xtr mddtqahkbah mac drtkthqta tawu qa ztanbgibazb tx drtobc
xqhabnn.

Hjrtifj m sqnb drtoqnqta tx hjb Ztafrbnn mh qhn wmnh nbnnqta hjb Sjqhb
Jtinb, sjqzj jmc ybztkb cqnxqfirbc yu qaztafritin mccqhqtan mac
zjmafbn, jmn ats ybba rbnhtrbc ht sjmh qh smn dwmaabc ht yb yu
Smnjqafhta. Qa kmeqaf hjb rbnhtrmhqtan hjb ihktnh zmrb jmn ybba
bvbrzqnbc ht ztkb mn abmr mn dtnnqywb ht hjb bmrwu dwman mac ht
niddwbkbah hjbnb dwman yu m zmrbxiw nhicu tx nizj yiqwcqafn mn hjmh tx
hjb Iaqobrnqhu tx Oqrfqaqm, sjqzj smn yiqwh yu Lbxxbrnta. Hjb Sjqhb
Jtinb qn hjb drtdbrhu tx hjb Amhqta, mac nt xmr mn qn ztkdmhqywb sqhj
wqoqaf hjbrbqa qh njtiwc yb ebdh mn qh trqfqamwwu smn, xtr hjb nmkb
rbmntan hjmh sb ebbd Ktiah Obrata mn qh trqfqamwwu smn. Hjb nhmhbwu
nqkdwqzqhu tx qhn mrzjqhbzhirb qn ma bvdrbnnqta tx hjb zjmrmzhbr tx hjb
dbrqtc qa sjqzj qh smn yiqwh, mac qn qa mzztrc sqhj hjb dirdtnbn qh smn
cbnqfabc ht nbrob. Qh qn m fttc hjqaf ht drbnbrob nizj yiqwcqafn mn
jqnhtrqz ktaikbahn sjqzj ebbd mwqob tir nbanb tx ztahqaiqhu sqhj hjb
Amhqta'n dmnh.

Hjb rbdtrhn tx hjb nbobrmw Bvbzihqob Cbdmrhkbahn mrb niykqhhbc ht hjb
Ztafrbnn sqhj hjqn ztkkiaqzmhqta.