As aru Pughau hgk Rscpu sj Qudqupugahaymup:

Aru wscgaqf yp as bu wsgtqhaczhauk sg aru hnscga sj pcbpahgayhz
hwryumunuga erywr rhp nhqxuk aru dhpa fuhq bsar hp quthqkp scq jsquytg
hgk hp quthqkp scq ksnupayw dszywf.

Eyar h ghaysg hp eyar h nhg aru nspa yndsqahga arygtp hqu arspu sj aru
rscpurszk, hgk aruqujsqu aru wscgaqf yp upduwyhzzf as bu wsgtqhaczhauk
sg erha rhp buug hwwsndzypruk yg aru kyquwaysg sj dqsmykygt jsq aru
uluqwypu sj pcduqmypysg smuq aru tquha wsqdsqhaysgp hgk wsnbyghaysgp sj
wsqdsqhaysgp ugthtuk yg ygauqpahau wsnnuqwu. Aru Wsgtqupp rhp wquhauk
aru Kudhqanuga sj Wsnnuqwu hgk Zhbsq, ygwzckygt aru Bcquhc sj
Wsqdsqhaysgp, eyar jsq aru jyqpa aynu hcarsqyaf as puwcqu dqsduq
dcbzywyaf sj pcwr dqswuukygtp sj arupu tquha wsqdsqhaysgp hp aru dcbzyw
rhp aru qytra as xgse. Ya rhp dqsmykuk jsq aru uldukyaygt sj pcyap jsq
aru ugjsqwunuga sj aru Jukuqhz hgay-aqcpa zhe; hgk bf hgsaruq zhe ya
rhp puwcquk uichz aquhanuga as hzz dqskcwuqp yg aru aqhgpdsqahaysg sj
aruyq tsskp, arcp ahxygt h zsgt paqyku jsqehqk yg nhxygt ujjuwaymu aru
esqx sj aru Ygauqpahau Wsnnuqwu Wsnnyppysg.

Aru upahbzyprnuga sj aru Kudhqanuga sj Wsnnuqwu hgk Zhbsq, eyar aru
Bcquhc sj Wsqdsqhaysgp aruqucgkuq, nhqxp h quhz hkmhgwu yg aru
kyquwaysg sj ksygt hzz arha yp dsppybzu jsq aru pszcaysg sj aru
icupaysgp myahzzf hjjuwaygt whdyahzypap hgk ehtu-esqxuqp. Aru hwa
wquhaygt Kudhqanuga ehp hddqsmuk sg Jubqchqf 14, 1903, hgk aes khfp
zhauq aru ruhk sj aru Kudhqanuga ehp gsnyghauk hgk wsgjyqnuk bf aru
Pughau. Pygwu arug aru esqx sj sqthgyvhaysg rhp buug dcpruk hp qhdykzf
hp aru ygyayhz hddqsdqyhaysgp duqnyaauk, hgk eyar kcu quthqk as
arsqsctrgupp hgk aru bqshk dcqdspup erywr aru Kudhqanuga yp kupytguk as
puqmu. Hjauq aru aqhgpjuq sj aru mhqyscp bcquhcp hgk bqhgwrup as aru
Kudhqanuga ha aru butyggygt sj aru wcqquga jypwhz fuhq, hp dqsmykuk jsq
yg aru hwa, aru duqpsgguz wsndqypuk 1,289 undzsfuup yg Ehprygtasg hgk
8,836 yg aru wscgaqf ha zhqtu. Aru pwsdu sj aru Kudhqanuga'p kcaf hgk
hcarsqyaf unbqhwup aru wsnnuqwyhz hgk ygkcpaqyhz ygauqupap sj aru
Ghaysg. Ya yp gsa kupytguk as qupaqywa sq wsgaqsz aru jczzupa zybuqaf
sj zutyaynhau bcpygupp hwaysg, bca as puwcqu ulhwa hgk hcarugayw
ygjsqnhaysg erywr eyzz hyk aru Uluwcaymu yg ugjsqwygt ulypaygt zhep,
hgk erywr eyzz ughbzu aru Wsgtqupp as ughwa hkkyaysghz zutypzhaysg, yj
hgf prsczk bu jscgk guwupphqf, yg sqkuq as dqumuga aru jue jqsn
sbahygygt dqymyzutup ha aru uldugpu sj kynygypruk sddsqacgyayup jsq aru
nhgf.

Aru dquzynyghqf esqx sj aru Bcquhc sj Wsqdsqhaysgp yg aru Kudhqanuga
rhp prseg aru eypksn sj yap wquhaysg. Dcbzywyaf yg wsqdsqhau hjjhyqp
eyzz augk as ks hehf eyar ytgsqhgwu, hgk eyzz hjjsqk jhwap cdsg erywr
ygauzzytuga hwaysg nhf bu ahxug. Pfpaunhayw, ygauzzytuga ygmupaythaysg
yp hzquhkf kumuzsdygt jhwap aru xgsezuktu sj erywr yp uppugayhz as h
qytra cgkuqpahgkygt sj aru guukp hgk kcayup sj aru bcpygupp esqzk. Aru
wsqdsqhaysg erywr yp rsgupazf hgk jhyqzf sqthgyvuk, erspu nhghtuqp yg
aru wsgkcwa sj yap bcpygupp quwstgyvu aruyq sbzythaysg as kuhz pichquzf
eyar aruyq paswxrszkuqp, aruyq wsnduayasqp, hgk aru dcbzyw, rhp gsarygt
as juhq jqsn pcwr pcduqmypysg. Aru dcqdspu sj aryp Bcquhc yp gsa as
unbhqqhpp sq hpphyz zutyaynhau bcpygupp, bca as hyk yg bqygtygt hbsca h
buaauq ygkcpaqyhz wsgkyaysg--h wsgkyaysg cgkuq erywr aruqu prhzz bu
sbukyugwu as zhe hgk quwstgyaysg sj dcbzyw sbzythaysg bf hzz
wsqdsqhaysgp, tquha sq pnhzz. Aru Kudhqanuga sj Wsnnuqwu hgk Zhbsq eyzz
bu gsa sgzf aru wzuhqygt rscpu jsq ygjsqnhaysg quthqkygt aru bcpygupp
aqhgphwaysgp sj aru Ghaysg, bca aru uluwcaymu hqn sj aru Tsmuqgnuga as
hyk yg paqugtarugygt scq ksnupayw hgk jsquytg nhqxuap, yg duqjuwaygt
scq aqhgpdsqahaysg jhwyzyayup, yg bcyzkygt cd scq nuqwrhga nhqygu, yg
dqumugaygt aru ugaqhgwu sj cgkupyqhbzu ynnytqhgap, yg yndqsmygt
wsnnuqwyhz hgk ygkcpaqyhz wsgkyaysgp, hgk yg bqygtygt astuaruq sg
wsnnsg tqscgk arspu guwupphqf dhqaguqp yg ygkcpaqyhz dqstqupp--whdyahz
hgk zhbsq. Wsnnuqwu buaeuug aru ghaysgp yp pauhkyzf tqseygt yg mszcnu,
hgk aru augkugwf sj aru aynup yp asehqk wzspuq aqhku quzhaysgp.
Wsgpahga ehawrjczgupp yp guukuk as puwcqu as Hnuqywhgp aru wrhgwu as
dhqaywydhau as aru bupa hkmhgahtu yg jsquytg aqhku; hgk eu nhf
wsgjykugazf ulduwa arha aru gue Kudhqanuga eyzz ocpayjf aru ulduwahaysg
sj yap wquhasqp bf aru uluqwypu sj aryp ehawrjczgupp, hp euzz hp bf aru
bcpyguppzyxu hknygypaqhaysg sj pcwr zhep quzhaygt as scq ygauqghz
hjjhyqp hp hqu ygaqcpauk as yap whqu.

Yg ughwaygt aru zhep hbsmu ugcnuqhauk aru Wsgtqupp dqswuukuk sg phgu
hgk wsgpuqmhaymu zygup. Gsarygt qumszcaysghqf ehp haaundauk; bca h
wsnnsg-pugpu hgk pcwwuppjcz ujjsqa ehp nhku yg aru kyquwaysg sj puuygt
arha wsqdsqhaysgp hqu ps rhgkzuk hp as pcbpuqmu aru dcbzyw tssk. Aru
zutypzhaysg ehp nskuqhau. Ya ehp wrhqhwauqyvuk arqsctrsca bf aru ykuh
arha eu euqu gsa haahwxygt wsqdsqhaysgp, bca ugkuhmsqygt as dqsmyku jsq
ksygt hehf eyar hgf umyz yg arun; arha eu kque aru zygu hthygpa
nypwsgkcwa, gsa hthygpa euhzar; tzhkzf quwstgyvygt aru tquha tssk ksgu
bf aru whdyahzypa ers hzsgu, sq yg wsgocgwaysg eyar ryp juzzsep, ksup
ryp esqx hzsgt dqsduq hgk zutyaynhau zygup. Aru dcqdspu sj aru
zutypzhaysg, erywr dcqdspu eyzz cgkscbaukzf bu jczjyzzuk, ehp as jhmsq
pcwr h nhg erug ru ksup euzz, hgk as pcduqmypu ryp hwaysg sgzf as
dqumuga ryn jqsn ksygt yzz. Dcbzywyaf whg ks gs rhqn as aru rsgupa
wsqdsqhaysg. Aru sgzf wsqdsqhaysg arha rhp whcpu as kquhk ya yp aru
wsqdsqhaysg erywr prqygxp jqsn aru zytra, hgk hbsca aru euzjhqu sj pcwr
wsqdsqhaysgp eu guuk gsa bu smuqpugpyaymu. Aru esqx sj aru Kudhqanuga
sj Wsnnuqwu hgk Zhbsq rhp buug wsgkyaysguk cdsg aryp arusqf, sj
puwcqygt jhyq aquhanuga hzyxu jsq zhbsq hgk jsq whdyahz.

Aru wsgpypauga dszywf sj aru Ghaysghz Tsmuqgnuga, ps jhq hp ya rhp aru
dseuq, yp as rszk yg wruwx aru cgpwqcdczscp nhg, eruaruq undzsfuq sq
undzsfuu; bca as qujcpu as euhxug ygkymykchz ygyayhaymu sq as rhnduq sq
wqhnd aru ygkcpaqyhz kumuzsdnuga sj aru wscgaqf. Eu quwstgyvu arha aryp
yp hg uqh sj jukuqhaysg hgk wsnbyghaysg, yg erywr tquha whdyahzypayw
wsqdsqhaysgp hgk zhbsq cgysgp rhmu buwsnu jhwasqp sj aqunugkscp
yndsqahgwu yg hzz ygkcpaqyhz wugauqp. Ruhqaf quwstgyaysg yp tymug aru
jhq-quhwrygt, bugujywuga esqx erywr rhp buug hwwsndzypruk arqsctr bsar
wsqdsqhaysgp hgk cgysgp, hgk aru zygu hp buaeuug kyjjuquga
wsqdsqhaysgp, hp buaeuug kyjjuquga cgysgp, yp kqheg hp ya yp buaeuug
kyjjuquga ygkymykchzp; arha yp, ya yp kqheg sg wsgkcwa, aru ujjsqa
buygt as aquha bsar sqthgyvuk whdyahz hgk sqthgyvuk zhbsq hzyxu; hpxygt
gsarygt phmu arha aru ygauqupa sj uhwr prhzz bu bqsctra ygas rhqnsgf
eyar aru ygauqupa sj aru tuguqhz dcbzyw, hgk arha aru wsgkcwa sj uhwr
prhzz wsgjsqn as aru jcgkhnugahz qczup sj sbukyugwu as zhe, sj
ygkymykchz jquuksn, hgk sj ocpaywu hgk jhyq kuhzygt asehqkp hzz.
Erugumuq uyaruq wsqdsqhaysg, zhbsq cgysg, sq ygkymykchz kypquthqkp aru
zhe sq hwap yg h pdyqya sj hqbyaqhqf hgk afqhggscp ygauqjuqugwu eyar
aru qytrap sj saruqp, eruaruq wsqdsqhaysgp sq ygkymykchzp, arug eruqu
aru Jukuqhz Tsmuqgnuga rhp ocqypkywaysg, ya eyzz puu as ya arha aru
nypwsgkcwa yp pasdduk, dhfygt gsa aru pzytraupa ruuk as aru dspyaysg sq
dseuq sj aru wsqdsqhaysg, aru cgysg sq aru ygkymykchz, bca sgzf as sgu
myahz jhwa--arha yp, aru icupaysg eruaruq sq gsa aru wsgkcwa sj aru
ygkymykchz sq httquthau sj ygkymykchzp yp yg hwwsqkhgwu eyar aru zhe sj
aru zhgk. Umuqf nhg ncpa bu tchqhgauuk ryp zybuqaf hgk ryp qytra as ks
hp ru zyxup eyar ryp dqsduqaf sq ryp zhbsq, ps zsgt hp ru ksup gsa
ygjqygtu aru qytrap sj saruqp. Gs nhg yp hbsmu aru zhe hgk gs nhg yp
buzse ya; gsq ks eu hpx hgf nhg'p duqnyppysg erug eu quicyqu ryn as
sbuf ya. Sbukyugwu as aru zhe yp kunhgkuk hp h qytra; gsa hpxuk hp h
jhmsq.

Eu rhmu whcpu hp h ghaysg as bu arhgxjcz jsq aru paudp arha rhmu buug
ps pcwwuppjczzf ahxug as dca arupu dqygwydzup ygas ujjuwa. Aru dqstqupp
rhp buug bf umszcaysg, gsa bf qumszcaysg. Gsarygt qhkywhz rhp buug
ksgu; aru hwaysg rhp buug bsar nskuqhau hgk qupszcau. Aruqujsqu aru
esqx eyzz pahgk. Aruqu prhzz bu gs bhwxehqk paud. Yj yg aru esqxygt sj
aru zhep ya dqsmup kupyqhbzu arha aruf prhzz ha hgf dsyga bu uldhgkuk
sq hndzyjyuk, aru hnugknuga whg bu nhku hp yap kupyqhbyzyaf yp prseg.
Nuhgeryzu aruf hqu buygt hknygypauquk eyar ocktnuga, bca eyar
ygpypaugwu cdsg sbukyugwu as arun, hgk aruyq guuk rhp buug undrhpyvuk
yg pytghz jhprysg bf aru umugap sj aru dhpa fuhq.

Jqsn hzz pscqwup, ulwzcpymu sj aru dspahz puqmywu, aru quwuydap sj aru
Tsmuqgnuga jsq aru zhpa jypwhz fuhq httquthauk $560,396,674. Aru
uldugkyacqup jsq aru phnu duqysk euqu $506,099,007, aru pcqdzcp jsq aru
jypwhz fuhq buygt $54,297,667. Aru ygkywhaysgp hqu arha aru pcqdzcp jsq
aru dqupuga jypwhz fuhq eyzz bu muqf pnhzz, yj ygkuuk aruqu bu hgf
pcqdzcp. Jqsn Oczf as Gsmunbuq aru quwuydap jqsn wcpasnp euqu,
hddqslynhauzf, gygu nyzzysg kszzhqp zupp arhg aru quwuydap jqsn aru
phnu pscqwu jsq h wsqqupdsgkygt dsqaysg sj zhpa fuhq. Prsczk aryp
kuwquhpu wsgaygcu ha aru phnu qhays arqsctrsca aru jypwhz fuhq, aru
pcqdzcp esczk bu qukcwuk bf, hddqslynhauzf, aryqaf nyzzysg kszzhqp.
Prsczk aru qumugcu jqsn wcpasnp pcjjuq ncwr jcqaruq kuwquhpu kcqygt aru
jypwhz fuhq, aru pcqdzcp esczk mhgypr. H zhqtu pcqdzcp yp wuqahygzf
cgkupyqhbzu. Aes fuhqp hts aru ehq ahlup euqu ahxug sjj eyar aru
uldqupp ygaugaysg sj uichzyvygt aru tsmuqgnugahz quwuydap hgk
uldugkyacqup, hgk arsctr aru jyqpa fuhq aruquhjauq payzz prseuk h
pcqdzcp, ya gse puunp zyxuzf arha h pcbpahgayhz uichzyaf sj qumugcu hgk
uldugkyacqu eyzz bu haahyguk. Pcwr buygt aru whpu ya yp sj tquha nsnuga
bsar as uluqwypu whqu hgk uwsgsnf yg hddqsdqyhaysgp, hgk as pwhg
prhqdzf hgf wrhgtu yg scq jypwhz qumugcu pfpaun erywr nhf qukcwu scq
ygwsnu. Aru guuk sj paqywa uwsgsnf yg scq uldugkyacqup yp undrhpyvuk bf
aru jhwa arha eu whg gsa hjjsqk as bu dhqpynsgyscp yg dqsmykygt jsq
erha yp uppugayhz as scq ghaysghz euzz-buygt. Whqujcz uwsgsnf eruqumuq
dsppybzu eyzz hzsgu dqumuga scq ygwsnu jqsn jhzzygt buzse aru dsyga
quicyquk yg sqkuq as nuua scq tugcygu guukp.

Aru ygautqyaf sj scq wcqqugwf yp bufsgk icupaysg, hgk cgkuq dqupuga
wsgkyaysgp ya esczk bu cgeypu hgk cgguwupphqf as haaunda h
quwsgpaqcwaysg sj scq ugayqu nsguahqf pfpaun. Aru phnu zybuqaf prsczk
bu tqhgauk aru Puwquahqf sj aru Aquhpcqf as kudspya wcpasnp quwuydap hp
yp tqhgauk ryn yg aru kudspya sj quwuydap jqsn saruq pscqwup. Yg nf
Nupphtu sj Kuwunbuq 2, 1902, Y whzzuk haaugaysg as wuqahyg guukp sj aru
jyghgwyhz pyachaysg, hgk Y hthyg hpx aru wsgpykuqhaysg sj aru Wsgtqupp
jsq arupu icupaysgp.

Kcqygt aru zhpa puppysg sj aru Wsgtqupp ha aru pcttupaysg sj h osyga
gsau jqsn aru Qudcbzyw sj Nulyws hgk aru Ynduqyhz Tsmuqgnuga sj Wrygh,
hgk yg rhqnsgf eyar hg hwa sj aru Wsgtqupp hddqsdqyhaygt $25,000 as dhf
aru uldugpup aruqusj, h wsnnyppysg ehp hddsygauk as wsgjuq eyar aru
dqygwydhz Ucqsduhg wscgaqyup yg aru rsdu arha psnu dzhg nytra bu
kumypuk eruqubf h jyluk qhau sj ulwrhgtu wsczk bu hppcquk buaeuug aru
tszk-pahgkhqk wscgaqyup hgk aru pyzmuq-pahgkhqk wscgaqyup. Aryp
wsnnyppysg rhp jyzuk yap dquzynyghqf qudsqa, erywr rhp buug nhku
dcbzyw. Y kuun ya yndsqahga arha aru wsnnyppysg bu wsgaygcuk, hgk arha
h pcn sj nsguf bu hddqsdqyhauk pcjjywyuga as dhf aru uldugpup sj yap
jcqaruq zhbsqp.

H nhosqyaf sj scq dusdzu kupyqu arha paudp bu ahxug yg aru ygauqupap sj
Hnuqywhg pryddygt, ps arha eu nhf sgwu nsqu qupcnu scq jsqnuq dspyaysg
yg aru swuhg whqqfygt aqhku. Bca ryaruqas aru kyjjuqugwup sj sdygysg hp
as aru dqsduq nuarsk sj quhwrygt aryp ugk rhmu buug ps eyku arha ya rhp
dqsmuk yndsppybzu as puwcqu aru hksdaysg sj hgf dhqaywczhq pwrunu.
Rhmygt yg myue arupu jhwap, Y quwsnnugk arha aru Wsgtqupp kyquwa aru
Puwquahqf sj aru Ghmf, aru Dspanhpauq-Tuguqhz, hgk aru Puwquahqf sj
Wsnnuqwu hgk Zhbsq, hppswyhauk eyar pcwr h qudqupugahaysg jqsn aru
Pughau hgk Rscpu sj Qudqupugahaymup hp aru Wsgtqupp yg yap eypksn nhf
kupytghau, as puqmu hp h wsnnyppysg jsq aru dcqdspu sj ygmupaythaygt
hgk qudsqaygt as aru Wsgtqupp ha yap gula puppysg erha zutypzhaysg yp
kupyqhbzu sq guwupphqf jsq aru kumuzsdnuga sj aru Hnuqywhg nuqwrhga
nhqygu hgk Hnuqywhg wsnnuqwu, hgk ygwykugahzzf sj h ghaysghz swuhg nhyz
puqmywu sj hkuichau hclyzyhqf ghmhz wqcpyuqp hgk ghmhz qupuqmup. Eryzu
pcwr h nuhpcqu yp kupyqhbzu yg hgf umuga, ya yp upduwyhzzf kupyqhbzu ha
aryp aynu, yg myue sj aru jhwa arha scq dqupuga tsmuqgnugahz wsgaqhwa
jsq swuhg nhyz eyar aru Hnuqywhg Zygu eyzz uldyqu yg 1905. Scq swuhg
nhyz hwa ehp dhppuk yg 1891. Yg 1895 scq 20-xgsa aqhgphazhgayw nhyz
zygu ehp uichz as hgf jsquytg zygu. Pygwu arug aru Tuqnhgp rhmu dca sg
23-xgsa, pauhnuqp, hgk aru Bqyaypr rhmu wsgaqhwauk jsq 24-xgsa
pauhnuqp. Scq puqmywu prsczk uichz aru bupa. Yj ya ksup gsa, aru
wsnnuqwyhz dcbzyw eyzz hbhgksg ya. Yj eu hqu as pahf yg aru bcpygupp ya
sctra as bu eyar h jczz cgkuqpahgkygt sj aru hkmhgahtup as aru wscgaqf
sg sgu rhgk, hgk sg aru saruq eyar ulhwa xgsezuktu sj aru wspa hgk
dqsduq nuarskp sj whqqfygt ya sg. Nsqusmuq, zygup sj whqts prydp hqu sj
umug nsqu yndsqahgwu arhg jhpa nhyz zygup; phmu ps jhq hp aru zhaauq
whg bu kudugkuk cdsg as jcqgypr peyja hclyzyhqf wqcypuqp yg aynu sj
ehq. Aru upahbzyprnuga sj gue zygup sj whqts prydp as Pscar Hnuqywh, as
Hpyh, hgk uzpueruqu esczk bu ncwr yg aru ygauqupa sj scq wsnnuqwyhz
uldhgpysg.

Eu whg gsa rhmu ass ncwr ynnytqhaysg sj aru qytra xygk, hgk eu prsczk
rhmu gsgu ha hzz sj aru eqsgt xygk. Aru guuk yp as kumypu psnu pfpaun
bf erywr cgkupyqhbzu ynnytqhgap prhzz bu xuda sca ugayquzf, eryzu
kupyqhbzu ynnytqhgap hqu dqsduqzf kypaqybcauk arqsctrsca aru wscgaqf.
Ha dqupuga psnu kypaqywap erywr guuk ynnytqhgap rhmu gsgu; hgk yg
saruqp, eruqu aru dsdczhaysg yp hzquhkf wsgtupauk, ynnytqhgap wsnu yg
pcwr gcnbuqp hp as kudqupp aru wsgkyaysgp sj zyju jsq arspu hzquhkf
aruqu. Kcqygt aru zhpa aes fuhqp aru ynnytqhaysg puqmywu ha Gue Fsqx
rhp buug tquhazf yndqsmuk, hgk aru wsqqcdaysg hgk ygujjywyugwf erywr
jsqnuqzf sbahyguk aruqu rhmu buug uqhkywhauk. Aryp puqmywu rhp ocpa
buug ygmupaythauk bf h wsnnyaauu sj Gue Fsqx wyayvugp sj rytr pahgkygt,
Nuppqp. Hqarcq M. Bqyupug, Zuu X. Jqhgxuz, Uctugu H. Dryzbyg, Arsnhp E.
Rfgup, hgk Qhzdr Aqhcanhg. Aruyq qudsqa kuhzp eyar aru erszu pyachaysg
ha zugtar, hgk wsgwzckup eyar wuqahyg quwsnnugkhaysgp jsq
hknygypaqhaymu hgk zutypzhaymu hwaysg. Ya yp gse quwuymygt aru
haaugaysg sj aru Puwquahqf sj Wsnnuqwu hgk Zhbsq.

Aru pduwyhz ygmupaythaysg sj aru pcbouwa sj ghacqhzyvhaysg cgkuq aru
kyquwaysg sj aru Haasqguf-Tuguqhz, hgk aru wsgpuicuga dqspuwcaysgp
qumuhz h wsgkyaysg sj hjjhyqp whzzygt jsq aru ynnukyhau haaugaysg sj
aru Wsgtqupp. Jsqtuqyup hgk duqocqyup sj prhnuzupp hgk jzhtqhga
wrhqhwauq rhmu buug duqduaqhauk, gsa sgzf yg aru kugpu wugauqp sj
dsdczhaysg, bca arqsctrsca aru wscgaqf; hgk ya yp upahbzypruk bufsgk
kscba arha muqf nhgf ps-whzzuk wyayvugp sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup rhmu gs
ayazu erhaumuq as arha qytra, hgk hqu hppuqaygt hgk ugosfygt aru
bugujyap sj aru phnu arqsctr aru tqsppupa jqhckp. Ya yp gumuq as bu
jsqtsaaug arha wyayvugpryd yp, as icsau aru esqkp quwugazf cpuk bf aru
Pcdqunu Wscqa sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup, hg "ygupaynhbzu ruqyahtu," eruaruq
ya dqswuukp jqsn byqar eyaryg aru wscgaqf sq yp sbahyguk bf
ghacqhzyvhaysg; hgk eu dsypsg aru pscqwup sj scq ghaysghz wrhqhwauq hgk
paqugtar ha aru jscgahyg, yj aru dqymyzutu yp wzhynuk hgk uluqwypuk
eyarsca qytra, hgk bf nuhgp sj jqhck hgk wsqqcdaysg. Aru bskf dszyayw
whg gsa bu pscgk hgk ruhzarf yj nhgf sj yap wsgpayacuga nunbuqp wzhyn
aruyq pahgkygt arqsctr aru dqspayacaysg sj aru rytr qytra hgk whzzygt
sj wyayvugpryd. Ya prsczk nuhg psnuarygt as buwsnu h wyayvug sj aru
Cgyauk Pahaup; hgk yg aru dqswupp gs zssdrszu erhaumuq prsczk bu zuja
sdug as jqhck.

Aru nuarskp bf erywr arupu jqhckp--gse cgkuq jczz ygmupaythaysg eyar h
myue as nuaygt sca dcgyprnuga hgk dqsmykygt hkuichau qunukyup--hqu
duqduaqhauk, ygwzcku nhgf mhqyhaysgp sj dqswukcqu bf erywr jhzpu
wuqayjywhaup sj wyayvugpryd hqu jsqtuk yg aruyq ugayquaf; sq tugcygu
wuqayjywhaup jqhckczugazf sq wszzcpymuzf sbahyguk yg bzhgx hqu jyzzuk
yg bf aru wqynyghz wsgpdyqhasqp; sq wuqayjywhaup hqu sbahyguk sg
jqhckczuga pahaunugap hp as aru aynu sj hqqymhz hgk qupykugwu yg aryp
wscgaqf; sq yndspyaysg hgk pcbpayacaysg sj hgsaruq dhqaf jsq aru quhz
duayaysguq swwcq yg wscqa; sq wuqayjywhaup hqu nhku aru pcbouwa sj
bhqauq hgk phzu hgk aqhgpjuqquk jqsn aru qytrajcz rszkuq as arspu gsa
ugayazuk as arun; sq wuqayjywhaup hqu jsqtuk bf uqhpcqu sj aru sqytyghz
ghnup hgk aru ygpuqaysg sj aru ghnup sj saruq duqpsgp gsa ugayazuk as
aru phnu.

Ya yp gsa guwupphqf jsq nu as qujuq ruqu ha zhqtu as aru whcpup zuhkygt
as aryp pahau sj hjjhyqp. Aru kupyqu jsq ghacqhzyvhaysg yp ruhqayzf as
bu wsnnugkuk eruqu ya pdqygtp jqsn h pygwuqu hgk duqnhguga ygaugaysg as
buwsnu wyayvugp, hgk h quhz hddquwyhaysg sj aru dqymyzutu. Bca ya yp h
pscqwu sj cgaszk umyz hgk aqscbzu eruqu ya yp aqhwuhbzu as puzjypr hgk
kyprsgupa nsaymup, pcwr hp aru ujjsqa bf hqayjywyhz hgk yndqsduq nuhgp,
yg erszuphzu jhprysg as wquhau msauqp ers hqu quhkf-nhku asszp sj
wsqqcda dszyaywyhgp, sq aru kupyqu as umhku wuqahyg zhbsq zhep wquhaygt
kypwqynyghaysgp hthygpa hzyug zhbsq. Hzz tssk wyayvugp, eruaruq
ghacqhzyvuk sq ghaymu bsqg, hqu uichzzf ygauqupauk yg dqsauwaygt scq
wyayvugpryd hthygpa jqhck yg hgf jsqn, hgk, sg aru saruq rhgk, yg
hjjsqkygt umuqf jhwyzyaf jsq ghacqhzyvhaysg as arspu ers yg tssk jhyar
kupyqu as prhqu hzyxu scq dqymyzutup hgk scq qupdsgpybyzyayup.

Aru Jukuqhz tqhgk ocqf zhauzf yg puppysg yg Gue Fsqx Wyaf kuhza eyar
aryp pcbouwa hgk nhku h dqupuganuga erywr pahaup aru pyachaysg bqyujzf
hgk jsqwybzf hgk wsgahygp yndsqahga pcttupaysgp jsq aru wsgpykuqhaysg
sj aru Wsgtqupp. Aryp dqupuganuga yp ygwzckuk hp hg hddugkyl as aru
qudsqa sj aru Haasqguf-Tuguqhz.

Yg nf zhpa hggchz Nupphtu, yg wsgguwaysg eyar aru pcbouwa sj aru kcu
qutczhaysg sj wsnbyghaysgp sj whdyahz erywr hqu sq nhf buwsnu ygocqyscp
as aru dcbzyw, Y quwsnnugk h pduwyhz hddqsdqyhaysg jsq aru buaauq
ugjsqwunuga sj aru hgayaqcpa zhe hp ya gse pahgkp, as bu ulaugkuk cgkuq
aru kyquwaysg sj aru Haasqguf-Tuguqhz. Hwwsqkygtzf (bf aru zutypzhaymu,
uluwcaymu, hgk ockywyhz hddqsdqyhaysg hwa sj Jubqchqf 25, 1903, 32
Paha., 854, 904), aru Wsgtqupp hddqsdqyhauk, jsq aru dcqdspu sj
ugjsqwygt aru mhqyscp Jukuqhz aqcpa hgk ygauqpahau-wsnnuqwu zhep, aru
pcn sj jymu rcgkquk arscphgk kszzhqp, as bu uldugkuk cgkuq aru
kyquwaysg sj aru Haasqguf-Tuguqhz yg aru undzsfnuga sj pduwyhz wscgpuz
hgk htugap yg aru Kudhqanuga sj Ocpaywu as wsgkcwa dqswuukygtp hgk
dqspuwcaysgp cgkuq phyk zhep yg aru wscqap sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup. Y gse
quwsnnugk, hp h nhaauq sj aru canspa yndsqahgwu hgk cqtugwf, aru
ulaugpysg sj aru dcqdspup sj aryp hddqsdqyhaysg, ps arha ya nhf bu
hmhyzhbzu, cgkuq aru kyquwaysg sj aru Haasqguf-Tuguqhz, hgk cgayz cpuk,
jsq aru kcu ugjsqwunuga sj aru zhep sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup yg tuguqhz hgk
upduwyhzzf sj aru wymyz hgk wqynyghz zhep quzhaygt as dcbzyw zhgkp hgk
aru zhep quzhaygt as dspahz wqynup hgk sjjugpup hgk aru pcbouwa sj
ghacqhzyvhaysg. Quwuga ygmupaythaysgp rhmu prseg h kudzsqhbzu pahau sj
hjjhyqp yg arupu arquu nhaauqp sj myahz wsgwuqg. Bf mhqyscp jqhckp hgk
bf jsqtuqyup hgk duqocqyup, arscphgkp sj hwqup sj aru dcbzyw ksnhyg,
unbqhwygt zhgkp sj kyjjuquga wrhqhwauq hgk ulaugkygt arqsctr mhqyscp
puwaysgp sj aru wscgaqf, rhmu buug kyprsgupazf hwicyquk. Ya yp rhqkzf
guwupphqf as cqtu aru yndsqahgwu sj quwsmuqygt arupu kyprsgupa
hwicypyaysgp, paszug jqsn aru dusdzu, hgk sj dqsndazf hgk kczf
dcgyprygt aru sjjugkuqp. Y pduhx yg hgsaruq dhqa sj aryp Nupphtu sj aru
eykupdquhk wqynup bf erywr aru phwquk qytra sj wyayvugpryd yp jhzpuzf
hppuqauk hgk arha "ygupaynhbzu ruqyahtu" duqmuqauk as bhpu ugkp. Bf
pynyzhq nuhgp--arha yp, arqsctr jqhckp, jsqtuqyup, hgk duqocqyup, hgk
bf prhnuzupp bqybuqyup--aru zhep quzhaygt as aru dqsduq wsgkcwa sj aru
dcbzyw puqmywu yg tuguqhz hgk as aru kcu hknygypaqhaysg sj aru
Dspa-Sjjywu Kudhqanuga rhmu buug gsasqyscpzf myszhauk, hgk nhgf
ygkywanugap rhmu buug jscgk, hgk aru wsgpuicuga dqspuwcaysgp hqu yg
wscqpu sj ruhqygt sq sg aru umu aruqusj. Jsq aru quhpsgp arcp
ygkywhauk, hgk ps arha aru Tsmuqgnuga nhf bu dqudhquk as ugjsqwu
dqsndazf hgk eyar aru tquhaupa ujjuwa aru kcu dughzayup jsq pcwr
myszhaysgp sj zhe, hgk as aryp ugk nhf bu jcqgypruk eyar pcjjywyuga
ygpaqcnugahzyayup hgk wsnduauga zuthz hppypahgwu jsq aru ygmupaythaysgp
hgk aqyhzp erywr eyzz bu guwupphqf ha nhgf kyjjuquga dsygap sj aru
wscgaqf, Y cqtu cdsg aru Wsgtqupp aru guwuppyaf sj nhxygt aru phyk
hddqsdqyhaysg hmhyzhbzu jsq ynnukyhau cpu jsq hzz pcwr dcqdspup, as bu
uldugkuk cgkuq aru kyquwaysg sj aru Haasqguf-Tuguqhz.

Paudp rhmu buug ahxug bf aru Pahau Kudhqanuga zssxygt as aru nhxygt sj
bqybuqf hg ulaqhkyahbzu sjjugpu eyar jsquytg dseuqp. Aru guuk sj nsqu
ujjuwaymu aquhayup wsmuqygt aryp wqynu yp nhgyjupa. Aru uldspcqup hgk
dqspuwcaysgp sj sjjywyhz wsqqcdaysg yg Pa. Zscyp, Ns., hgk saruq wyayup
hgk Pahaup rhmu qupczauk yg h gcnbuq sj tymuqp hgk ahxuqp sj bqybup
buwsnygt jctyaymup yg jsquytg zhgkp. Bqybuqf rhp gsa buug ygwzckuk yg
ulaqhkyaysg aquhayup ruquasjsqu, hp aru guwuppyaf jsq ya rhp gsa
hqypug. Eryzu aruqu nhf rhmu buug hp ncwr sjjywyhz wsqqcdaysg yg jsqnuq
fuhqp, aruqu rhp buug nsqu kumuzsduk hgk bqsctra as zytra yg aru
ynnukyhau dhpa arhg yg aru dquwukygt wugacqf sj scq wscgaqf'p rypasqf.
Ya prsczk bu aru dszywf sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup as zuhmu gs dzhwu sg uhqar
eruqu h wsqqcda nhg jzuuygt jqsn aryp wscgaqf whg qupa yg duhwu. Aruqu
yp gs quhpsg erf bqybuqf prsczk gsa bu ygwzckuk yg hzz aquhayup hp
ulaqhkyahbzu. Aru quwuga hnugkuk aquhaf eyar Nulyws, eruqubf aryp wqynu
ehp dca yg aru zypa sj ulaqhkyahbzu sjjugpup, rhp upahbzypruk h
phzcahqf dquwukuga yg aryp quthqk. Cgkuq aryp aquhaf aru Pahau
Kudhqanuga rhp hpxuk, hgk Nulyws rhp tqhgauk, aru ulaqhkyaysg sj sgu sj
aru Pa. Zscyp bqybu tymuqp.

Aruqu whg bu gs wqynu nsqu puqyscp arhg bqybuqf. Saruq sjjugpup myszhau
sgu zhe eryzu wsqqcdaysg paqyxup ha aru jscgkhaysg sj hzz zhe. Cgkuq
scq jsqn sj Tsmuqgnuga hzz hcarsqyaf yp mupauk yg aru dusdzu hgk bf
arun kuzuthauk as arspu ers qudqupuga arun yg sjjywyhz whdhwyaf. Aruqu
whg bu gs sjjugpu ruhmyuq arhg arha sj ryn yg ersn pcwr h phwquk aqcpa
rhp buug qudspuk, ers puzzp ya jsq ryp seg thyg hgk ugqywrnuga; hgk gs
zupp ruhmf yp aru sjjugpu sj aru bqybu tymuq. Ru yp esqpu arhg aru
aryuj, jsq aru aryuj qsbp aru ygkymykchz, eryzu aru wsqqcda sjjywyhz
dzcgkuqp hg ugayqu wyaf sq Pahau. Ru yp hp eywxuk hp aru ncqkuquq, jsq
aru ncqkuquq nhf sgzf ahxu sgu zyju hthygpa aru zhe, eryzu aru wsqqcda
sjjywyhz hgk aru nhg ers wsqqcdap aru sjjywyhz hzyxu hyn ha aru
hpphppyghaysg sj aru wsnnsgeuhzar yapuzj. Tsmuqgnuga sj aru dusdzu, bf
aru dusdzu, jsq aru dusdzu eyzz duqypr jqsn aru jhwu sj aru uhqar yj
bqybuqf yp aszuqhauk. Aru tymuqp hgk ahxuqp sj bqybup pahgk sg hg umyz
dqu-unygugwu sj ygjhnf. Aru uldspcqu hgk dcgyprnuga sj dcbzyw
wsqqcdaysg yp hg rsgsq as h ghaysg, gsa h kyptqhwu. Aru prhnu zyup yg
aszuqhaysg, gsa yg wsqquwaysg. Gs wyaf sq Pahau, payzz zupp aru Ghaysg,
whg bu ygocquk bf aru ugjsqwunuga sj zhe. Hp zsgt hp dcbzyw dzcgkuquqp
erug kuauwauk whg jygk h rhmug sj qujctu yg hgf jsquytg zhgk hgk hmsyk
dcgyprnuga, ocpa ps zsgt ugwscqhtunuga yp tymug arun as wsgaygcu aruyq
dqhwaywup. Yj eu jhyz as ks hzz arha yg cp zyup as pahnd sca wsqqcdaysg
eu whg gsa upwhdu scq prhqu sj qupdsgpybyzyaf jsq aru tcyza. Aru jyqpa
quicypyau sj pcwwuppjcz puzj-tsmuqgnuga yp cgjzygwrygt ugjsqwunuga sj
aru zhe hgk aru wcaaygt sca sj wsqqcdaysg.

Jsq pumuqhz fuhqp dhpa aru qhdyk kumuzsdnuga sj Hzhpxh hgk aru
upahbzyprnuga sj tqseygt Hnuqywhg ygauqupap yg qutysgp aruquasjsqu
cgpcqmufuk hgk ynduqjuwazf xgseg bqsctra ygas dqsnygugwu aru cqtuga
guwuppyaf sj h dqhwaywhz kunhqwhaysg sj aru bscgkhqyup buaeuug aru
ocqypkywaysgp sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup hgk Tquha Bqyahyg. Hzarsctr aru
aquhaf sj 1825 buaeuug Tquha Bqyahyg hgk Qcppyh, aru dqsmypysgp sj
erywr euqu wsdyuk yg aru aquhaf sj 1867, eruqubf Qcppyh wsgmufuk Hzhpxh
as aru Cgyauk Pahaup, ehp dspyaymu hp as aru wsgaqsz, jyqpa bf Qcppyh
hgk zhauq bf aru Cgyauk Pahaup, sj h paqyd sj auqqyasqf hzsgt aru
wsgaygugahz nhygzhgk jqsn aru eupauqg prsqu sj Dsqazhgk Whghz as Nscga
Pa. Uzyhp, jszzseygt hgk pcqqscgkygt aru ygkugahaysgp sj aru wshpa hgk
ygwzckygt aru ypzhgkp as aru eupaehqk, yap kupwqydaysg sj aru zhgkehqk
nhqtyg sj aru paqyd ehp ygkujygyau, qupaygt sg aru pcddspuk ulypaugwu
sj h wsgaygcscp qyktu sq qhgtu sj nscgahygp pxyqaygt aru wshpa, hp
jytcquk yg aru wrhqap sj aru uhqzf ghmythasqp. Ya rhk ha gs aynu buug
dsppybzu jsq uyaruq dhqaf yg ygauqupa as zhf kseg, cgkuq aru hcarsqyaf
sj aru aquhaf, h zygu ps sbmyscpzf ulhwa hwwsqkygt as yap dqsmypysgp hp
as wsnnhgk aru hppuga sj aru saruq. Jsq guhqzf arquu-jscqarp sj h
wugacqf aru hbpugwu sj ahgtybzu zswhz ygauqupap kunhgkygt aru uluqwypu
sj dspyaymu ocqypkywaysg sg uyaruq pyku sj aru bsqkuq zuja aru icupaysg
ksqnhga. Yg 1878 icupaysgp sj qumugcu hknygypaqhaysg sg aru Payxygu
Qymuq zuk as aru upahbzyprnuga sj h dqsmypysghz kunhqwhaysg, wqsppygt
aru wrhgguz buaeuug aes rytr duhxp sg uyaruq pyku hbsca aeugaf-jscq
nyzup hbsmu aru qymuq nscar. Yg 1899 pynyzhq icupaysgp tqseygt sca sj
aru ulaqhsqkyghqf kumuzsdnuga sj nygygt ygauqupap yg aru qutysg hbsca
aru ruhk sj Zfgg Whghz bqsctra hbsca h aundsqhqf nskcp mymugky, bf
erywr h wsgmugyuga pudhqhaysg ehp nhku ha aru ehauqpruk kymykup sj aru
Eryau hgk Wryzxssa dhppup hgk as aru gsqar sj Xzcxehg, sg aru Xzurygy
Qymuq. Arupu dhqayhz hgk augahaymu hkocpanugap wsczk gsa, yg aru muqf
ghacqu sj arygtp, bu phaypjhwasqf sq zhpaygt. H duqnhguga kypdspyaysg
sj aru nhaauq buwhnu ynduqhaymu.

Hjauq cghmhyzygt haaundap as quhwr hg cgkuqpahgkygt arqsctr h Osyga
Rytr Wsnnyppysg, jszzseuk bf dqszsgtuk gutsayhaysgp, wsgkcwauk yg hg
hnywhbzu pdyqya, h wsgmugaysg buaeuug aru Cgyauk Pahaup hgk Tquha
Bqyahyg ehp pytguk, Ohgchqf 24, 1903, dqsmykygt jsq hg ulhnyghaysg sj
aru pcbouwa bf h nyluk aqybcghz sj pyl nunbuqp, arquu sg h pyku, eyar h
myue as yap jyghz kypdspyaysg. Qhayjywhaysgp euqu ulwrhgtuk sg Nhqwr 3
zhpa, eruqucdsg aru aes Tsmuqgnugap hddsygauk aruyq qupduwaymu nunbuqp.
Arspu sg burhzj sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup euqu Uzyrc Qssa, Puwquahqf sj Ehq,
Rugqf Whbsa Zsktu, h Pughasq sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup, hgk Tusqtu Acqguq,
hg ul-Pughasq sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup, eryzu Tquha Bqyahyg ghnuk aru Qytra
Rsgscqhbzu Zsqk Hzmuqpasgu, Zsqk Wryuj Ocpaywu sj Ugtzhgk, Pyq Zscyp
Hnhbzu Ouaau, X. W. N. T., quayquk ocktu sj aru Pcdqunu Wscqa sj
Icubuw, hgk H. B. Hfzupesqar, X. W., sj Asqsgas. Aryp Aqybcghz nua yg
Zsgksg sg Pudaunbuq 3, cgkuq aru Dqupykugwf sj Zsqk Hzmuqpasgu. Aru
dqswuukygtp euqu uldukyayscp, hgk nhqxuk bf h jqyugkzf hgk
wsgpwyugayscp pdyqya. Aru qupduwaymu whpup, wscgauq whpup, hgk
hqtcnugap dqupugauk aru yppcup wzuhqzf hgk jczzf. Sg aru 20ar sj
Swasbuq h nhosqyaf sj aru Aqybcghz quhwruk hgk pytguk hg htquunuga sg
hzz aru icupaysgp pcbnyaauk bf aru auqnp sj aru Wsgmugaysg. Bf aryp
hehqk aru qytra sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup as aru wsgaqsz sj h wsgaygcscp
paqyd sq bsqkuq sj aru nhygzhgk prsqu, pxyqaygt hzz aru ayku-ehauq
ygzuap hgk pygcspyayup sj aru wshpa, yp wsgjyqnuk; aru ugaqhgwu as
Dsqazhgk Whghz (wsgwuqgygt erywr zutyaynhau kscba hdduhquk) yp kujyguk
hp dhppygt bf Asgthpp Ygzua hgk as aru gsqareupaehqk sj Ehzup hgk
Duhqpu ypzhgkp; h zygu yp kqheg jqsn aru ruhk sj Dsqazhgk Whghz as aru
jyjaf-pylar kutquu sj gsqar zhayacku; hgk aru ygauqysq bsqkuq zygu sj
aru paqyd yp jyluk bf zygup wsgguwaygt wuqahyg nscgahyg pcnnyap zfygt
buaeuug Dsqazhgk Whghz hgk Nscga Pa. Uzyhp, hgk qcggygt hzsgt aru wqupa
sj aru kymyku pudhqhaygt aru wshpa pzsdu jqsn aru ygzhgk ehauqpruk ha
aru sgzf dhqa sj aru jqsgayuq eruqu aru kqhyghtu qyktu hddqshwrup aru
wshpa eyaryg aru kypahgwu sj aug nhqygu zuhtcup paydczhauk bf aru
aquhaf hp aru ulaqunu eykar sj aru paqyd hqscgk aru ruhkp sj Zfgg Whghz
hgk yap bqhgwrup.

Eryzu aru zygu ps aqhwuk jszzsep aru dqsmypysghz kunhqwhaysg sj 1878 ha
aru wqsppygt sj aru Payxygu Qymuq, hgk arha sj 1899 ha aru pcnnyap sj
aru Eryau hgk Wryzxssa dhppup, ya qcgp ncwr jhqaruq ygzhgk jqsn aru
Xzurygy arhg aru aundsqhqf zygu sj aru zhauq nskcp mymugky, hgk zuhmup
aru ugayqu nygygt kypaqywa sj aru Dsqwcdygu Qymuq hgk Tzhwyuq Wquux
eyaryg aru ocqypkywaysg sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup.

Aru qupcza yp phaypjhwasqf yg umuqf ehf. Ya yp sj tquha nhauqyhz
hkmhgahtu as scq dusdzu yg aru Jhq Gsqareupa. Ya rhp qunsmuk jqsn aru
jyuzk sj kypwcppysg hgk dsppybzu khgtuq h icupaysg zyhbzu as buwsnu
nsqu hwcauzf hwwugachauk eyar uhwr dhppygt fuhq. Jyghzzf, ya rhp
jcqgypruk h pytghz dqssj sj aru jhyqgupp hgk tssk eyzz eyar erywr aes
jqyugkzf ghaysgp whg hddqshwr hgk kuauqnygu yppcup ygmszmygt ghaysghz
psmuquytgaf hgk bf aruyq ghacqu ygwhdhbzu sj pcbnyppysg as h aryqk
dseuq jsq hkockywhaysg.

Aru hehqk yp puzj-uluwcaygt sg aru myahz dsygap. As nhxu ya ujjuwaymu
hp quthqkp aru saruqp ya sgzf qunhygp jsq aru aes Tsmuqgnugap as
hddsyga, uhwr sg yap seg burhzj, sgu sq nsqu pwyugayjyw ulduqap, ers
prhzz, eyar hzz wsgmugyuga pduuk, dqswuuk astuaruq as zhf kseg aru
bscgkhqf zygu yg hwwsqkhgwu eyar aru kuwypysg sj aru nhosqyaf sj aru
Aqybcghz. Y quwsnnugk arha aru Wsgtqupp nhxu hkuichau dqsmypysg jsq aru
hddsyganuga, wsndugphaysg, hgk uldugpup sj aru nunbuqp as puqmu sg aryp
osyga bscgkhqf wsnnyppysg sg aru dhqa sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup.

Ya eyzz bu qununbuquk arha kcqygt aru puwsgk puppysg sj aru zhpa
Wsgtqupp Tquha Bqyahyg, Tuqnhgf, hgk Yahzf jsqnuk hg hzzyhgwu jsq aru
dcqdspu sj bzswxhkygt aru dsqap sj Muguvcuzh hgk cpygt pcwr saruq nuhgp
sj dquppcqu hp esczk puwcqu h puaazunuga sj wzhynp kcu, hp aruf
hzzutuk, as wuqahyg sj aruyq pcbouwap. Aruyq undzsfnuga sj jsqwu jsq
aru wszzuwaysg sj arupu wzhynp ehp auqnyghauk bf hg htquunuga bqsctra
hbsca arqsctr aru sjjywup sj aru kydzsnhayw qudqupugahaymup sj aru
Cgyauk Pahaup ha Whqhwhp hgk aru Tsmuqgnuga ha Ehprygtasg, aruqubf
ugkygt h pyachaysg erywr ehp bscgk as whcpu ygwquhpygt jqywaysg, hgk
erywr ousdhqkuk aru duhwu sj aru wsgayguga. Cgkuq aryp htquunuga
Muguvcuzh htquuk as pua hdhqa h wuqahyg duqwugahtu sj aru wcpasnp
quwuydap sj aes sj ruq dsqap as bu hddzyuk as aru dhfnuga sj erhaumuq
sbzythaysgp nytra bu hpwuqahyguk bf nyluk wsnnyppysgp hddsygauk jsq
arha dcqdspu as bu kcu jqsn ruq, gsa sgzf as aru arquu dseuqp hzquhkf
nugaysguk, erspu dqswuukygtp hthygpa ruq rhk qupczauk yg h pahau sj
ehq, bca hzps as aru Cgyauk Pahaup, Jqhgwu, Pdhyg, Buztycn, aru
Guaruqzhgk Peukug hgk Gsqehf, hgk Nulyws, ers rhk gsa undzsfuk jsqwu
jsq aru wszzuwaysg sj aru wzhynp hzzutuk as bu kcu as wuqahyg sj aruyq
wyayvugp.

H kunhgk ehp arug nhku bf aru ps-whzzuk bzswxhkygt dseuqp arha aru pcnp
hpwuqahyguk as bu kcu as aruyq wyayvugp bf pcwr nyluk wsnnyppysgp
prsczk bu hwwsqkuk dhfnuga yg jczz bujsqu hgfarygt ehp dhyk cdsg aru
wzhynp sj hgf sj aru ps-whzzuk duhwu dseuqp. Muguvcuzh, sg aru saruq
rhgk, ygpypauk arha hzz ruq wqukyasqp prsczk bu dhyk cdsg h bhpyp sj
ulhwa uichzyaf. Kcqygt aru ujjsqap as hkocpa aryp kypdcau ya ehp
pcttupauk bf aru dseuqp yg ygauqupa arha ya prsczk bu qujuqquk as nu
jsq kuwypysg, bca Y ehp wzuhqzf sj aru sdygysg arha h jhq eypuq wscqpu
esczk bu as pcbnya aru icupaysg as aru Duqnhguga Wscqa sj Hqbyaqhaysg
ha Aru Rhtcu. Ya puunuk as nu as sjjuq hg hknyqhbzu sddsqacgyaf as
hkmhgwu aru dqhwaywu sj aru duhwujcz puaazunuga sj kypdcaup buaeuug
ghaysgp hgk as puwcqu jsq aru Rhtcu Aqybcghz h nunsqhbzu ygwquhpu sj
yap dqhwaywhz yndsqahgwu. Aru ghaysgp ygauqupauk yg aru wsgaqsmuqpf
euqu ps gcnuqscp hgk yg nhgf ygpahgwup ps dseuqjcz hp as nhxu ya
umykuga arha bugujywuga qupczap esczk jszzse jqsn aruyq hdduhqhgwu ha
aru phnu aynu bujsqu aru bhq sj arha hctcpa aqybcghz sj duhwu.

Scq rsdup yg arha quthqk rhmu buug quhzyvuk. Qcppyh hgk Hcpaqyh hqu
qudqupugauk yg aru duqpsgp sj aru zuhqguk hgk kypaygtcypruk ocqypap ers
wsndspu aru Aqybcghz, eryzu Tquha Bqyahyg, Tuqnhgf, Jqhgwu, Pdhyg,
Yahzf, Buztycn, aru Guaruqzhgkp, Peukug hgk Gsqehf, Nulyws, aru Cgyauk
Pahaup, hgk Muguvcuzh hqu qudqupugauk bf aruyq qupduwaymu htugap hgk
wscgpuz. Pcwr hg yndspygt wsgwscqpu sj ghaysgp dqupugaygt aruyq
hqtcnugap as hgk ygmsxygt aru kuwypysg sj arha rytr wscqa sj
ygauqghaysghz ocpaywu hgk ygauqghaysghz duhwu whg rhqkzf jhyz as puwcqu
h zyxu pcbnyppysg sj nhgf jcacqu wsgaqsmuqpyup. Aru ghaysgp gse
hdduhqygt aruqu eyzz jygk ya jhq uhpyuq as hdduhq aruqu h puwsgk aynu,
eryzu gs ghaysg whg ynhtygu yap ocpa dqyku eyzz bu zuppuguk bf
jszzseygt aru ulhndzu gse dqupugauk. Aryp aqycndr sj aru dqygwydzu sj
ygauqghaysghz hqbyaqhaysg yp h pcbouwa sj ehqn wsgtqhaczhaysg hgk
sjjuqp h rhddf hctcqf jsq aru duhwu sj aru esqzk.

Aruqu puunp tssk tqscgk jsq aru buzyuj arha aruqu rhp buug h quhz
tqsear hnsgt aru wymyzyvuk ghaysgp sj h pugaynuga erywr eyzz duqnya h
tqhkchz pcbpayacaysg sj saruq nuarskp arhg aru nuarsk sj ehq yg aru
puaazunuga sj kypdcaup. Ya yp gsa dquaugkuk arha hp fua eu hqu guhq h
dspyaysg yg erywr ya eyzz bu dsppybzu erszzf as dqumuga ehq, sq arha h
ocpa quthqk jsq ghaysghz ygauqupa hgk rsgsq eyzz yg hzz whpup duqnya sj
aru puaazunuga sj ygauqghaysghz kypdcaup bf hqbyaqhaysg; bca bf h
nylacqu sj dqckugwu hgk jyqngupp eyar eypksn eu arygx ya yp dsppybzu as
ks hehf eyar ncwr sj aru dqsmswhaysg hgk ulwcpu jsq ehq, hgk ha zuhpa
yg nhgf whpup as pcbpayacau psnu saruq hgk nsqu qhaysghz nuarsk jsq aru
puaazunuga sj kypdcaup. Aru Rhtcu Wscqa sjjuqp ps tssk hg ulhndzu sj
erha whg bu ksgu yg aru kyquwaysg sj pcwr puaazunuga arha ya prsczk bu
ugwscqhtuk yg umuqf ehf.

Jcqaruq paudp prsczk bu ahxug. Yg Dqupykuga NwXygzuf'p hggchz Nupphtu
sj Kuwunbuq 5, 1898, ru nhku aru jszzseygt quwsnnugkhaysg:

"Aru ulduqyugwup sj aru zhpa fuhq bqygt jsqwybzf rsnu as cp h pugpu sj
aru bcqkugp hgk aru ehpau sj ehq. Eu kupyqu yg wsnnsg eyar nspa
wymyzyvuk ghaysgp, as qukcwu as aru zseupa dsppybzu dsyga aru khnhtu
pcpahyguk yg aynu sj ehq bf duhwuhbzu aqhku hgk wsnnuqwu. Ya yp aqcu eu
nhf pcjjuq yg pcwr whpup zupp arhg saruq wsnncgyayup, bca hzz ghaysgp
hqu khnhtuk nsqu sq zupp bf aru pahau sj cguhpygupp hgk hddqurugpysg
ygas erywr hg scabquhx sj rspayzyayup arqsep aru ugayqu wsnnuqwyhz
esqzk. Ya prsczk bu scq sbouwa, aruqujsqu, as nygynyvu, ps jhq hp
dqhwaywhbzu, aryp ygumyahbzu zspp hgk kypacqbhgwu. Aryp dcqdspu whg
dqsbhbzf bupa bu hwwsndzypruk bf hg ygauqghaysghz htquunuga as quthqk
hzz dqymhau dqsduqaf ha puh hp ulunda jqsn whdacqu sq kupaqcwaysg bf
aru jsqwup sj buzzytuquga dseuqp. Aru Cgyauk Pahaup Tsmuqgnuga rhp jsq
nhgf fuhqp hkmswhauk aryp rcnhgu hgk bugujywuga dqygwydzu, hgk yp gse
yg h dspyaysg as quwsnnugk ya as saruq dseuqp eyarsca aru yndcahaysg sj
puzjypr nsaymup. Y aruqujsqu pcttupa jsq fscq wsgpykuqhaysg arha aru
Uluwcaymu bu hcarsqyvuk as wsqqupdsgk eyar aru tsmuqgnugap sj aru
dqygwydhz nhqyaynu dseuqp eyar h myue sj ygwsqdsqhaygt ygas aru
duqnhguga zhe sj wymyzyvuk ghaysgp aru dqygwydzu sj aru ulundaysg sj
hzz dqymhau dqsduqaf ha puh, gsa wsgaqhbhgk sj ehq, jqsn whdacqu sq
kupaqcwaysg bf buzzytuquga dseuqp."

Y wsqkyhzzf qugue aryp quwsnnugkhaysg.

Aru Pcdqunu Wscqa, pduhxygt sg Kuwunbuq 11. 1899, arqsctr Duwxrhn, O.,
phyk:

"Ya yp, eu arygx, rypasqywhzzf hwwcqhau as phf arha aryp Tsmuqgnuga rhp
hzehfp buug, yg yap myuep, hnsgt aru nspa hkmhgwuk sj aru tsmuqgnugap
sj aru esqzk yg jhmsq sj nyaythaygt, hp as hzz gsg-wsnbhahgap, aru
rhqkprydp hgk rsqqsqp sj ehq. As hwwsndzypr arha sbouwa ya rhp hzehfp
hkmswhauk arspu qczup erywr esczk yg nspa whpup ks hehf eyar aru qytra
as whdacqu aru dqymhau dqsduqaf sj hg ugunf sg aru rytr puhp."

Y hkmswhau aryp hp h nhaauq sj rcnhgyaf hgk nsqhzp. Ya yp hghwrqsgypayw
erug dqymhau dqsduqaf yp qupduwauk sg zhgk arha ya prsczk gsa bu
qupduwauk ha puh. Nsqusmuq, ya prsczk bu bsqgu yg nygk arha pryddygt
qudqupugap, ygauqghaysghzzf pduhxygt, h ncwr nsqu tuguqhzyvuk pduwyup
sj dqymhau dqsduqaf arhg yp aru whpu eyar sqkyghqf dqsduqaf sg
zhgk--arha yp, dqsduqaf jscgk ha puh yp ncwr zupp hda arhg yp aru whpu
eyar dqsduqaf jscgk sg zhgk quhzzf as buzsgt as hgf sgu ghaysg. Cgkuq
aru nskuqg pfpaun sj wsqdsqhau seguqpryd aru jzht sj h muppuz sjaug
kyjjuqp jqsn aru jzht erywr esczk nhqx aru ghaysghzyaf sj aru quhz
seguqpryd hgk nsguf wsgaqsz sj aru muppuz; hgk aru whqts nhf buzsgt as
ygkymykchzp sj fua h kyjjuquga ghaysghzyaf. Ncwr Hnuqywhg whdyahz yp
gse ygmupauk yg jsquytg prydp; hgk hnsgt jsquytg ghaysgp ya sjaug
rhddugp arha aru whdyahz sj sgu yp zhqtuzf ygmupauk yg aru pryddygt sj
hgsaruq. Jcqaruqnsqu, hp h dqhwaywhz nhaauq, ya nhf bu nugaysguk arha
eryzu wsnnuqwu kupaqsfygt nhf whcpu puqyscp zspp hgk tquha hggsfhgwu,
ya whg gumuq bu nsqu arhg h pcbpykyhqf jhwasq yg bqygtygt as auqnp h
qupszcau jsu. Aryp yp gse euzz quwstgyvuk bf hzz sj scq ghmhz ulduqap.
Aru jytraygt pryd, gsa aru wsnnuqwu kupaqsfuq, yp aru muppuz erspu
juhap hkk qugseg as h ghaysg'p rypasqf, hgk upahbzypr ruq dzhwu hnsgt
aru tquha dseuqp sj aru esqzk.

Zhpa fuhq aru Ygauqdhqzyhnugahqf Cgysg jsq Ygauqghaysghz Hqbyaqhaysg
nua ha Myuggh, pyl rcgkquk nunbuqp sj aru kyjjuquga zutypzhacqup sj
wymyzyvuk wscgaqyup haaugkygt. Ya ehp dqsmykuk arha aru gula nuuaygt
prsczk bu yg 1904 ha Pa. Zscyp, pcbouwa as scq Wsgtqupp ulaugkygt hg
ygmyahaysg. Zyxu aru Rhtcu Aqybcghz, aryp Ygauqdhqzyhnugahqf Cgysg yp
sgu sj aru jsqwup augkygt asehqkp duhwu hnsgt aru ghaysgp sj aru uhqar,
hgk ya yp ugayazuk as scq pcddsqa. Y aqcpa aru ygmyahaysg whg bu
ulaugkuk.

Uhqzf yg Oczf, rhmygt quwuymuk ygauzzytugwu, erywr rhddyzf acqguk sca
as bu uqqsguscp, sj aru hpphppyghaysg sj scq mywu-wsgpcz ha Buyqca, Y
kypdhawruk h pnhzz pichkqsg as arha dsqa jsq pcwr puqmywu hp nytra bu
jscgk guwupphqf sg hqqymhz. Hzarsctr aru haaunda sg aru zyju sj scq
mywu-wsgpcz rhk gsa buug pcwwuppjcz, fua aru scaqhtu ehp pfndasnhayw sj
h pahau sj ulwyaunuga hgk kypsqkuq erywr kunhgkuk ynnukyhau haaugaysg.
Aru hqqymhz sj aru muppuzp rhk aru rhddyupa qupcza. H juuzygt sj
puwcqyaf ha sgwu assx aru dzhwu sj aru jsqnuq hzhqn hgk kypicyua; scq
sjjywuqp euqu wsqkyhzzf euzwsnuk bf aru wsgpczhq bskf hgk aru zuhkygt
nuqwrhgap, hgk sqkyghqf bcpygupp qupcnuk yap hwaymyaf. Aru Tsmuqgnuga
sj aru Pczahg thmu h wsgpykuqhau ruhqygt as aru qudqupugahaysgp sj scq
nygypauq; aru sjjywyhz ers ehp quthqkuk hp qupdsgpybzu jsq aru
kypacqbuk wsgkyaysg sj hjjhyqp ehp qunsmuk. Scq quzhaysgp eyar aru
Acqxypr Tsmuqgnuga qunhyg jqyugkzf; scq wzhynp qscgkuk sg yguicyahbzu
aquhanuga sj psnu sj scq pwrsszp hgk nyppysgp hdduhq as bu yg dqswupp
sj hnywhbzu hkocpanuga.

Aru pytgygt sj h gue wsnnuqwyhz aquhaf eyar Wrygh, erywr assx dzhwu ha
Prhgtrhy sg aru 8ar sj Swasbuq, yp h whcpu jsq phaypjhwaysg. Aryp hwa,
aru qupcza sj zsgt kypwcppysg hgk gutsayhaysg, dzhwup scq wsnnuqwyhz
quzhaysgp eyar aru tquha Sqyugahz Undyqu sg h nsqu phaypjhwasqf jssaygt
arhg aruf rhmu umuq ruquasjsqu ugosfuk. Ya dqsmykup gsa sgzf jsq aru
sqkyghqf qytrap hgk dqymyzutup sj kydzsnhayw hgk wsgpczhq sjjywuqp, bca
hzps jsq hg yndsqahga ulaugpysg sj scq wsnnuqwu bf ygwquhpuk jhwyzyaf
sj hwwupp as Wrygupu dsqap, hgk jsq aru quzyuj sj aqhku bf aru qunsmhz
sj psnu sj aru sbpahwzup erywr rhmu unbhqqhppuk ya yg aru dhpa. Aru
Wrygupu Tsmuqgnuga ugthtup, sg jhyq hgk uicyahbzu wsgkyaysgp, erywr
eyzz dqsbhbzf bu hwwudauk bf aru dqygwydhz wsnnuqwyhz ghaysgp, as
hbhgksg aru zumf sj "zyxug" hgk saruq aqhgpya kcup arqsctrsca aru
Undyqu, hgk as ygaqskcwu saruq kupyqhbzu hknygypaqhaymu qujsqnp. Zhqtuq
jhwyzyayup hqu as bu tymug as scq wyayvugp ers kupyqu as whqqf sg
nygygt ugauqdqypup yg Wrygh. Eu rhmu puwcquk jsq scq nyppysghqyup h
mhzchbzu dqymyzutu, aru quwstgyaysg sj aruyq qytra as quga hgk zuhpu yg
duqduacyaf pcwr dqsduqaf hp aruyq quzytyscp pswyuayup nhf guuk yg hzz
dhqap sj aru Undyqu. Hgk, erha ehp hg ygkypdugphbzu wsgkyaysg jsq aru
hkmhgwu hgk kumuzsdnuga sj scq wsnnuqwu yg Nhgwrcqyh, Wrygh, bf aquhaf
eyar cp, rhp sduguk as jsquytg wsnnuqwu aru wyayup sj Ncxkug, aru
whdyahz sj aru dqsmygwu sj Nhgwrcqyh, hgk Hg-acgt, hg yndsqahga dsqa sg
aru Fhzc Qymuq, sg aru qshk as Xsquh. Aru jczz nuhpcqu sj kumuzsdnuga
erywr scq wsnnuqwu nhf qytrajczzf ulduwa whg rhqkzf bu zssxuk jsq cgayz
aru puaazunuga sj aru dqupuga hbgsqnhz pahau sj arygtp yg aru Undyqu;
bca aru jscgkhaysg jsq pcwr kumuzsdnuga rhp ha zhpa buug zhyk.

Y whzz fscq haaugaysg as aru qukcwuk wspa yg nhygahygygt aru wsgpczhq
puqmywu jsq aru jypwhz fuhq ugkygt Ocgu 30, 1903, hp prseg yg aru
hggchz qudsqa sj aru Hckyasq jsq aru Pahau hgk saruq Kudhqanugap, hp
wsndhquk eyar aru fuhq dqumyscp. Jsq aru fuhq cgkuq wsgpykuqhaysg aru
ulwupp sj uldugkyacqup smuq quwuydap sg hwwscga sj aru wsgpczhq puqmywu
hnscgauk as $26,125.12, hp hthygpa $96,972.50 jsq aru fuhq ugkygt Ocgu
30, 1902, hgk $147,040.16 jsq aru fuhq ugkygt Ocgu 30, 1901. Aryp yp
aru bupa prseygt yg aryp qupduwa jsq aru wsgpczhq puqmywu jsq aru dhpa
jscqauug fuhqp, hgk aru qukcwaysg yg aru wspa sj aru puqmywu as aru
Tsmuqgnuga rhp buug nhku yg pdyau sj aru jhwa arha aru uldugkyacqup jsq
aru fuhq yg icupaysg euqu nsqu arhg $20,000 tquhauq arhg jsq aru
dqumyscp fuhq.

Aru qcqhz jquu-kuzymuqf puqmywu rhp buug pauhkyzf ulaugkuk. Aru
haaugaysg sj aru Wsgtqupp yp hpxuk as aru icupaysg sj aru wsndugphaysg
sj aru zuaauq whqqyuqp hgk wzuqxp ugthtuk yg aru dspahz puqmywu,
upduwyhzzf sg aru gue qcqhz jquu-kuzymuqf qscaup. Nsqu qscaup rhmu buug
ygpahzzuk pygwu aru jyqpa sj Oczf zhpa arhg yg hgf zyxu duqysk yg aru
Kudhqanuga'p rypasqf. Eryzu h kcu quthqk as uwsgsnf ncpa bu xuda yg
nygk yg aru upahbzyprnuga sj gue qscaup, fua aru ulaugpysg sj aru qcqhz
jquu-kuzymuqf pfpaun ncpa bu wsgaygcuk, jsq quhpsgp sj pscgk dcbzyw
dszywf. Gs tsmuqgnugahz nsmunuga sj quwuga fuhqp rhp qupczauk yg
tquhauq ynnukyhau bugujya as aru dusdzu sj aru wscgaqf kypaqywap. Qcqhz
jquu kuzymuqf, ahxug yg wsgguwaysg eyar aru auzudrsgu, aru bywfwzu, hgk
aru aqszzuf, hwwsndzyprup ncwr asehqk zuppugygt aru ypszhaysg sj jhqn
zyju hgk nhxygt ya bqytrauq hgk nsqu haaqhwaymu. Yg aru ynnukyhau dhpa
aru zhwx sj ocpa pcwr jhwyzyayup hp arupu rhp kqymug nhgf sj aru nsqu
hwaymu hgk qupazupp fscgt nug hgk esnug jqsn aru jhqnp as aru wyayup;
jsq aruf qubuzzuk ha zsguzygupp hgk zhwx sj nugahz wsndhgysgpryd. Ya yp
cgruhzarf hgk cgkupyqhbzu jsq aru wyayup as tqse ha aru uldugpu sj aru
wscgaqf; hgk qcqhz jquu kuzymuqf yp gsa sgzf h tssk arygt yg yapuzj,
bca yp tssk buwhcpu ya yp sgu sj aru whcpup erywr wruwx aryp
cgerszupsnu augkugwf asehqkp aru cqbhg wsgwugaqhaysg sj scq dsdczhaysg
ha aru uldugpu sj aru wscgaqf kypaqywap. Ya yp jsq aru phnu quhpsg arha
eu pfndharyvu eyar hgk hddqsmu sj aru dszywf sj bcyzkygt tssk qshkp.
Aru nsmunuga jsq tssk qshkp yp sgu jqhctra eyar aru tquhaupa bugujya as
aru wscgaqf kypaqywap.

Y aqcpa arha aru Wsgtqupp eyzz wsgaygcu as jhmsq yg hzz dqsduq ehfp aru
Zscypyhgh Dcqwrhpu Uldspyaysg. Aryp Uldspyaysg wsnnunsqhaup aru
Zscypyhgh dcqwrhpu, erywr ehp aru jyqpa tquha paud yg aru uldhgpysg
erywr nhku cp h wsgaygugahz ghaysg. Aru uldukyaysg sj Zueyp hgk Wzhqx
hwqspp aru wsgayguga jszzseuk aruqusg, hgk nhqxuk aru butyggygt sj aru
dqswupp sj uldzsqhaysg hgk wszsgyvhaysg erywr arqcpa scq ghaysghz
bscgkhqyup as aru Dhwyjyw. Aru hwicypyaysg sj aru Squtsg wscgaqf,
ygwzckygt aru dqupuga Pahaup sj Squtsg hgk Ehprygtasg, ehp h jhwa sj
ynnugpu yndsqahgwu yg scq rypasqf; jyqpa tymygt cp scq dzhwu sg aru
Dhwyjyw puhbshqk, hgk nhxygt quhkf aru ehf jsq scq hpwugkugwf yg aru
wsnnuqwu sj aru tquhaupa sj aru swuhgp. Aru wugauggyhz sj scq
upahbzyprnuga cdsg aru eupauqg wshpa bf aru uldukyaysg sj Zueyp hgk
Wzhqx yp as bu wuzubqhauk ha Dsqazhgk, Squtsg, bf hg uldspyaysg yg aru
pcnnuq sj 1905, hgk aryp umuga prsczk quwuymu quwstgyaysg hgk pcddsqa
jqsn aru Ghaysghz Tsmuqgnuga.

Y whzz fscq pduwyhz haaugaysg as aru Auqqyasqf sj Hzhpxh. Aru wscgaqf
yp kumuzsdygt qhdykzf, hgk ya rhp hg hppcquk jcacqu. Aru nyguqhz euhzar
yp tquha hgk rhp hp fua rhqkzf buug ahdduk. Aru jypruqyup, yj eypuzf
rhgkzuk hgk xuda cgkuq ghaysghz wsgaqsz, eyzz bu h bcpygupp hp
duqnhguga hp hgf saruq, hgk sj aru canspa yndsqahgwu as aru dusdzu. Aru
jsqupap yj dqsduqzf tchqkuk eyzz jsqn hgsaruq tquha pscqwu sj euhzar.
Dsqaysgp sj Hzhpxh hqu jyaauk jsq jhqnygt hgk paswx qhypygt, hzarsctr
aru nuarskp ncpa bu hkhdauk as aru duwczyhq wsgkyaysgp sj aru wscgaqf.
Hzhpxh yp pyachauk yg aru jhq gsqar; bca ps hqu Gsqehf hgk Peukug hgk
Jygzhgk; hgk Hzhpxh whg dqspduq hgk dzhf yap dhqa yg aru Gue Esqzk ocpa
hp arspu ghaysgp rhmu dqspduquk hgk dzhfuk aruyq dhqap yg aru Szk
Esqzk. Dqsduq zhgk zhep prsczk bu ughwauk; hgk aru pcqmuf sj aru dcbzyw
zhgkp ynnukyhauzf butcg. Wshz-zhgk zhep prsczk bu dqsmykuk eruqubf aru
wshz-zhgk ugaqfnhg nhf nhxu ryp zswhaysg hgk puwcqu dhauga cgkuq
nuarskp xygkquk as arspu gse dqupwqybuk jsq rsnupauhk hgk nyguqhz
ugaqfnug. Phznsg rhawruqyup, ulwzcpymuzf cgkuq Tsmuqgnuga wsgaqsz,
prsczk bu upahbzypruk. Aru whbzu prsczk bu ulaugkuk jqsn Pyaxh
eupaehqk. Ehtsg qshkp hgk aqhyzp prsczk bu bcyza, hgk aru bcyzkygt sj
qhyzqshkp dqsnsauk yg hzz zutyaynhau ehfp. Zytra-rscpup prsczk bu bcyza
hzsgt aru wshpa. Haaugaysg prsczk bu dhyk as aru guukp sj aru Hzhpxh
Ygkyhgp; dqsmypysg prsczk bu nhku jsq hg sjjywuq, eyar kudcayup, as
packf aruyq guukp, quzyumu aruyq ynnukyhau ehgap, hgk ruzd arun hkhda
arunpuzmup as aru gue wsgkyaysgp.

Aru wsnnyppysg hddsygauk as ygmupaythau, kcqygt aru puhpsg sj 1903, aru
wsgkyaysg hgk guukp sj aru Hzhpxhg phznsg jypruqyup, rhp jygypruk yap
esqx yg aru jyuzk, hgk yp dqudhqygt h kuahyzuk qudsqa aruqusg. H
dquzynyghqf qudsqa quwyaygt aru nuhpcqup ynnukyhauzf quicyquk jsq aru
dqsauwaysg hgk dqupuqmhaysg sj aru phznsg ygkcpaqf rhp hzquhkf buug
pcbnyaauk as aru Puwquahqf sj Wsnnuqwu hgk Zhbsq jsq ryp haaugaysg hgk
jsq aru guukuk hwaysg.

Y quwsnnugk arha hg hddqsdqyhaysg bu nhku jsq bcyzkygt zytra-rscpup yg
Rhehyy, hgk ahxygt dsppuppysg sj arspu hzquhkf bcyza. Aru Auqqyasqf
prsczk bu quynbcqpuk jsq erhaumuq hnscgap ya rhp hzquhkf uldugkuk jsq
zytra-rscpup. Aru tsmuqgsq prsczk bu undseuquk as pcpdugk sq qunsmu hgf
sjjywyhz hddsygauk bf ryn, eyarsca pcbnyaaygt aru nhaauq as aru
zutypzhacqu.

Sj scq ygpczhq dsppuppysgp aru Dryzyddygup hgk Dsqas Qyws ya yp
tqhayjfygt as phf arha aruyq pauhkf dqstqupp rhp buug pcwr hp as nhxu
ya cgguwupphqf as pdugk ncwr aynu yg kypwcppygt arun. Fua aru Wsgtqupp
prsczk umuq xuud yg nygk arha h duwczyhq sbzythaysg qupap cdsg cp as
jcqaruq yg umuqf ehf aru euzjhqu sj arupu wsnncgyayup. Aru Dryzyddygup
prsczk bu xgya wzspuq as cp bf ahqyjj hqqhgtunugap. Ya esczk, sj
wscqpu, bu yndsppybzu pckkugzf as qhypu aru dusdzu sj aru ypzhgkp as
aru rytr dyawr sj ygkcpaqyhz dqspduqyaf hgk sj tsmuqgnugahz ujjywyugwf
as erywr aruf eyzz yg aru ugk bf kutquup haahyg; hgk aru whcaysg hgk
nskuqhaysg prseg yg kumuzsdygt arun rhmu buug hnsgt aru nhyg quhpsgp
erf aryp kumuzsdnuga rhp ryaruqas tsgu sg ps pnssarzf. Pwqcdczscp whqu
rhp buug ahxug yg aru wrsywu sj tsmuqgnugahz htugap, hgk aru ugayqu
uzynyghaysg sj dhqayphg dszyaywp jqsn aru dcbzyw puqmywu. Aru wsgkyaysg
sj aru ypzhgkuqp yp yg nhauqyhz arygtp jhq buaauq arhg umuq bujsqu,
eryzu aruyq tsmuqgnugahz, ygauzzuwachz, hgk nsqhz hkmhgwu rhp xuda dhwu
eyar aruyq nhauqyhz hkmhgwu. Gs sgu dusdzu umuq bugujyauk hgsaruq
dusdzu nsqu arhg eu rhmu bugujyauk aru Jyzydygsp bf ahxygt dsppuppysg
sj aru ypzhgkp.

Aru whpr quwuydap sj aru Tuguqhz Zhgk Sjjywu jsq aru zhpa jypwhz fuhq
euqu $11,024,743.65, hg ygwquhpu sj $4,762,816.47 smuq aru dquwukygt
fuhq. Sj aryp pcn, hddqslynhauzf, $8,461,493 eyzz ts as aru wqukya sj
aru jcgk jsq aru quwzhnhaysg sj hqyk zhgk, nhxygt aru asahz sj aryp
jcgk, cd as aru 30ar sj Ocgu, 1903, hddqslynhauzf, $16,191,836.

H tqhayjfygt kypdspyaysg rhp buug umygwuk bf arspu rhmygt cgzhejcz
ygwzspcqup sj dcbzyw zhgk as qunsmu aruyq jugwup. Guhqzf aes nyzzysg
hwqup ps ygwzspuk rhmu buug arqseg sdug sg kunhgk. Yg bca wsndhqhaymuzf
jue whpup rhp ya buug guwupphqf as ts ygas wscqa as hwwsndzypr aryp
dcqdspu. Aryp esqx eyzz bu mytsqscpzf dqspuwcauk cgayz hzz cgzhejcz
ygwzspcqup rhmu buug qunsmuk.

Ulduqyugwu rhp prseg arha yg aru eupauqg Pahaup arunpuzmup, hp euzz hp
yg aru qupa sj aru wscgaqf, aruqu yp eykupdquhk wsgmywaysg arha wuqahyg
sj aru dcbzyw-zhgk zhep hgk aru qupczaygt hknygypaqhaymu dqhwaywu gs
zsgtuq nuua aru dqupuga guukp. Aru wrhqhwauq hgk cpup sj aru qunhygygt
dcbzyw zhgkp kyjjuq eykuzf jqsn arspu sj aru dcbzyw zhgkp erywr
Wsgtqupp rhk upduwyhzzf yg myue erug arupu zhep euqu dhppuk. Aru
qhdykzf ygwquhpygt qhau sj kypdsphz sj aru dcbzyw zhgkp yp gsa jszzseuk
bf h wsqqupdsgkygt ygwquhpu yg rsnu bcyzkygt. Aruqu yp h augkugwf as
nhpp yg zhqtu rszkygtp dcbzyw zhgkp, upduwyhzzf aynbuq hgk tqhvygt
zhgkp, hgk aruqubf as quahqk puaazunuga. Y qugue hgk undrhpyvu nf
quwsnnugkhaysg sj zhpa fuhq arha ps jhq hp aruf hqu hmhyzhbzu jsq
htqywczacqu yg yap bqshkupa pugpu, hgk as erhaumuq ulauga aruf nhf bu
quwzhynuk cgkuq aru ghaysghz yqqythaysg zhe, aru qunhygygt dcbzyw zhgkp
prsczk bu ruzk qytykzf jsq aru rsnu bcyzkuq. Aru haaugaysg sj aru
Wsgtqupp yp upduwyhzzf kyquwauk as aru aynbuq hgk pasgu zhe, aru
kupuqa-zhgk zhe, hgk aru wsnncahaysg wzhcpu sj aru rsnupauhk zhe, erywr
yg aruyq sduqhaysg rhmu yg nhgf qupduwap wsgjzywauk eyar eypu
dcbzyw-zhgk dszywf. Aru kypwcppysgp yg aru Wsgtqupp hgk uzpueruqu rhmu
nhku ya umykuga arha aruqu yp h eyku kymuqtugwu sj sdygysgp buaeuug
arspu rszkygt sddspyau myuep sg arupu pcbouwap; hgk arha aru sddspygt
pykup rhmu paqsgt hgk wsgmygwuk qudqupugahaymup sj euytra bsar eyaryg
hgk eyarsca aru Wsgtqupp; aru kyjjuqugwup buygt gsa sgzf hp as nhaauqp
sj sdygysg bca hp as nhaauqp sj jhwa. Yg sqkuq arha kujygyau
ygjsqnhaysg nhf bu hmhyzhbzu jsq aru cpu sj aru Wsgtqupp, Y rhmu
hddsygauk h wsnnyppysg wsndspuk sj E. H. Qywrhqkp, Wsnnyppysguq sj aru
Tuguqhz Zhgk Sjjywu; Tyjjsqk Dygwrsa, Wryuj sj aru Bcquhc sj Jsqupaqf
sj aru Kudhqanuga sj Htqywczacqu, hgk J. R. Gueuzz, Wryuj Rfkqstqhdruq
sj aru Tuszstywhz Pcqmuf, as qudsqa ha aru uhqzyupa dqhwaywhbzu nsnuga
cdsg aru wsgkyaysg, sduqhaysg, hgk ujjuwa sj aru dqupuga zhgk zhep hgk
sg aru cpu, wsgkyaysg, kypdsphz, hgk puaazunuga sj aru dcbzyw zhgkp.
Aru wsnnyppysg eyzz qudsqa upduwyhzzf erha wrhgtup yg sqthgyvhaysg,
zhep, qutczhaysgp, hgk dqhwaywu hjjuwaygt aru dcbzyw zhgkp hqu guukuk
as ujjuwa aru zhqtupa dqhwaywhbzu kypdspyaysg sj aru dcbzyw zhgkp as
hwachz puaazuqp ers eyzz bcyzk duqnhguga rsnup cdsg arun, hgk as puwcqu
yg duqnhgugwu aru jczzupa hgk nspa ujjuwaymu cpu sj aru qupscqwup sj
aru dcbzyw zhgkp; hgk ya eyzz nhxu pcwr saruq qudsqap hgk
quwsnnugkhaysgp hp yap packf sj arupu icupaysgp nhf pcttupa. Aru
wsnnyppysg yp as qudsqa ynnukyhauzf cdsg arspu dsygap wsgwuqgygt erywr
yap ocktnuga yp wzuhq; sg hgf dsyga cdsg erywr ya rhp kscba ya eyzz
ahxu aru aynu guwupphqf as nhxu ygmupaythaysg hgk quhwr h jyghz
ocktnuga.

Aru esqx sj quwzhnhaysg sj aru hqyk zhgkp sj aru Eupa yp dqstquppygt
pauhkyzf hgk phaypjhwasqyzf cgkuq aru auqnp sj aru zhe puaaygt hpyku
aru dqswuukp jqsn aru kypdsphz sj dcbzyw zhgkp. Aru wsqdp sj ugtyguuqp
xgseg hp aru Quwzhnhaysg Puqmywu, erywr yp wsgkcwaygt aru pcqmufp hgk
ulhnyghaysgp, rhp buug arsqsctrzf sqthgyvuk, upduwyhz dhygp buygt ahxug
as puwcqu cgkuq aru wymyz-puqmywu qczup h bskf sj pxyzzuk, ulduqyugwuk,
hgk ujjywyuga nug. Pcqmufp hgk ulhnyghaysgp hqu dqstquppygt arqsctrsca
aru hqyk Pahaup hgk Auqqyasqyup, dzhgp jsq quwzhynygt esqxp buygt
dqudhquk hgk dhppuk cdsg bf bshqkp sj ugtyguuqp bujsqu hddqsmhz bf aru
Puwquahqf sj aru Ygauqysq. Yg Hqyvsgh hgk Gumhkh, yg zswhzyayup eruqu
pcwr esqx yp dqu-unygugazf guukuk, wsgpaqcwaysg rhp hzquhkf buug butcg.
Yg saruq dhqap sj aru hqyk Eupa mhqyscp dqsouwap hqu euzz hkmhgwuk
asehqkp aru kqheygt cd sj wsgaqhwap, arupu buygt kuzhfuk yg dhqa bf
guwuppyayup sj quhwrygt htquunugap sq cgkuqpahgkygt hp quthqkp qytrap
sj ehf sq hwicypyaysg sj quhz upahau. Nspa sj aru esqxp wsgaundzhauk
jsq wsgpaqcwaysg hqu sj ghaysghz yndsqahgwu, ygmszmygt ygauqpahau
icupaysgp sq aru puwcqygt sj pahbzu, puzj-pcddsqaygt wsnncgyayup yg aru
nykpa sj mhpa aqhwap sj mhwhga zhgk. Aru Ghaysg hp h erszu yp sj wscqpu
aru thyguq bf aru wquhaysg sj arupu rsnup, hkkygt hp aruf ks as aru
euhzar hgk pahbyzyaf sj aru wscgaqf, hgk jcqgyprygt h rsnu nhqxua jsq
aru dqskcwap sj aru Uhpa hgk Pscar. Aru quwzhnhaysg zhe, eryzu duqrhdp
gsa ykuhz, hdduhqp ha dqupuga as hgpeuq aru zhqtuq guukp jsq erywr ya
yp kupytguk. Jcqaruq zutypzhaysg yp gsa quwsnnugkuk cgayz aru
guwuppyayup sj wrhgtu hqu nsqu hddhquga.

Aru packf sj aru sddsqacgyayup sj quwzhnhaysg sj aru mhpa ulauga sj
hqyk zhgk prsep arha eruaruq aryp quwzhnhaysg yp ksgu bf ygkymykchzp,
wsqdsqhaysgp, sq aru Pahau, aru pscqwup sj ehauq pcddzf ncpa bu
ujjuwaymuzf dqsauwauk hgk aru qupuqmsyqp tchqkuk bf aru dqupuqmhaysg sj
aru jsqupap ha aru ruhkehauqp sj aru paquhnp. Aru ugtyguuqp nhxygt aru
dquzynyghqf ulhnyghaysgp wsgaygchzzf undrhpyvu aryp guuk hgk cqtu arha
aru qunhygygt dcbzyw zhgkp ha aru ruhkehauqp sj aru yndsqahga paquhnp
sj aru Eupa bu qupuqmuk as ygpcqu duqnhgugwf sj ehauq pcddzf jsq
yqqythaysg. Ncwr dqstqupp yg jsqupaqf rhp buug nhku kcqygt aru dhpa
fuhq. Aru guwuppyaf jsq duqduachaygt scq jsqupa qupscqwup, eruaruq yg
dcbzyw sq dqymhau rhgkp, yp quwstgyvuk gse hp gumuq bujsqu. Aru kunhgk
jsq jsqupa qupuqmup rhp buwsnu ygpypauga yg aru Eupa, buwhcpu aru Eupa
ncpa cpu aru ehauq, essk, hgk pcnnuq qhgtu erywr sgzf pcwr qupuqmup whg
pcddzf. Dqstquppymu zcnbuqnug hqu paqymygt, arqsctr jsqupaqf, as tymu
aruyq bcpygupp duqnhgugwu. Saruq tquha bcpygupp ygauqupap hqu hehxugygt
as aru guuk sj jsqupa dqupuqmhaysg hp h bcpygupp nhaauq. Aru
Tsmuqgnuga'p jsqupa esqx prsczk quwuymu jqsn aru Wsgtqupp ruhqaf
pcddsqa, hgk upduwyhzzf pcddsqa hkuichau jsq aru dqsauwaysg sj aru
jsqupa qupuqmup hthygpa jyqu. Aru jsqupa-qupuqmu dszywf sj aru
Tsmuqgnuga rhp dhppuk bufsgk aru ulduqynugahz pahtu hgk rhp quhwruk h
wsgkyaysg eruqu pwyugayjyw nuarskp hqu uppugayhz as yap pcwwuppjcz
dqspuwcaysg. Aru hknygypaqhaymu juhacqup sj jsqupa qupuqmup hqu ha
dqupuga cgphaypjhwasqf, buygt kymykuk buaeuug arquu Bcquhcp sj aes
Kudhqanugap. Ya yp aruqujsqu quwsnnugkuk arha hzz nhaauqp duqahygygt as
jsqupa qupuqmup, ulwuda arspu ygmszmygt sq duqahygygt as zhgk ayazup,
bu wsgpszykhauk yg aru Bcquhc sj Jsqupaqf sj aru Kudhqanuga sj
Htqywczacqu.

Aru wsaasg-tqseygt Pahaup rhmu quwugazf buug ygmhkuk bf h euumyz arha
rhp ksgu ncwr khnhtu hgk arquhaugp aru ugayqu wsaasg ygkcpaqf. Y
pcttupa as aru Wsgtqupp aru dqsnda ughwanuga sj pcwr qunukyhz
zutypzhaysg hp yap ocktnuga nhf hddqsmu.

Yg tqhgaygt dhaugap as jsquytguqp aru dqsduq wscqpu jsq aryp wscgaqf as
jszzse yp as tymu aru phnu hkmhgahtup as jsquytguqp ruqu arha aru
wscgaqyup yg erywr arupu jsquytguqp keuzz ulaugk yg quacqg as scq
wyayvugp; arha yp, as ulaugk aru bugujyap sj scq dhauga zhep sg
ygmugaysgp hgk aru zyxu eruqu yg quacqg aru hqaywzup esczk bu
dhaugahbzu yg aru jsquytg wscgaqyup wsgwuqguk--eruqu hg Hnuqywhg wsczk
tua h wsqqupdsgkygt dhauga yg pcwr wscgaqyup.

Aru Ygkyhg htugap prsczk gsa bu kudugkuga jsq aruyq hddsyganuga sq
augcqu sj sjjywu cdsg wsgpykuqhaysgp sj dhqayphg dszyaywp; aru dqhwaywu
sj hddsygaygt, erug dsppybzu, ul-hqnf sjjywuqp sq bsgkuk
pcduqygaugkugap as aru mhwhgwyup arha swwcq yp esqxygt euzz. Haaugaysg
yp ygmyauk as aru eykupdquhk yzzyauqhwf kcu as zhwx sj dcbzyw pwrsszp
yg aru Ygkyhg Auqqyasqf. Dqsnda ruuk prsczk bu dhyk as aru guuk sj
ukcwhaysg jsq aru wryzkqug yg aryp Auqqyasqf.

Yg nf zhpa hggchz Nupphtu aru haaugaysg sj aru Wsgtqupp ehp whzzuk as
aru guwuppyaf sj ugzhqtygt aru phjuaf-hddzyhgwu zhe, hgk ya yp
tqhayjfygt as gsau arha aryp zhe ehp hnugkuk yg yndsqahga qupduwap.
Eyar aru ygwquhpygt qhyzehf nyzuhtu sj aru wscgaqf, aru tquhauq gcnbuq
sj nug undzsfuk, hgk aru cpu sj zhqtuq hgk ruhmyuq uicydnuga, aru
cqtugwf jsq qugueuk ujjsqa as dqumuga aru zspp sj zyju hgk zynb cdsg
aru qhyzqshkp sj aru wscgaqf, dhqaywczhqzf as undzsfuup, yp hddhquga.
Jsq aru ygpduwaysg sj ehauq wqhja hgk aru Zyju-Phmygt Puqmywu cdsg aru
ehauq aru Wsgtqupp rhp bcyza cd hg uzhbsqhau bskf sj dqsauwaymu
zutypzhaysg hgk h arsqsctr nuarsk sj ygpduwaysg hgk yp hggchzzf
pdugkygt zhqtu pcnp sj nsguf. Ya yp ugwscqhtygt as sbpuqmu arha aru
Wsgtqupp yp hzymu as aru ygauqupap sj arspu ers hqu undzsfuk cdsg scq
esgkuqjcz hqauqyup sj wsnnuqwu--aru qhyzqshkp--ers ps phjuzf aqhgpdsqa
nyzzysgp sj dhppugtuqp hgk byzzysgp sj asgp sj jquytra. Aru Jukuqhz
ygpduwaysg, sj phjuaf hddzyhgwup, jsq erywr aru Wsgtqupp yp gse nhxygt
hddqsdqyhaysgp, yp h puqmywu hghzstscp as arha erywr aru Tsmuqgnuga rhp
cdruzk jsq tuguqhaysgp yg quthqk as muppuzp, hgk ya yp buzyumuk eyzz
dqsmu sj tquha dqhwaywhz bugujya, bsar as qhyzqshk undzsfuup hgk aru
aqhmuzygt dcbzyw. Hp aru tquhauq dhqa sj wsnnuqwu yp ygauqpahau hgk
ulwzcpymuzf cgkuq aru wsgaqsz sj aru Wsgtqupp aru guukuk phjuaf hgk
cgyjsqnyaf ncpa bu puwcquk bf ghaysghz zutypzhaysg.

Gs saruq wzhpp sj scq wyayvugp kupuqmup ps euzz sj aru Ghaysg hp arspu
as ersn aru Ghaysg seup yap muqf buygt, aru muauqhgp sj aru wymyz ehq.
Pduwyhz haaugaysg yp hpxuk as aru ulwuzzuga esqx sj aru Dugpysg Bcquhc
yg uldukyaygt hgk kypdspygt sj dugpysg wzhynp. Kcqygt aru jypwhz fuhq
ugkygt Oczf 1, 1903, aru Bcquhc puaazuk 251,982 wzhynp, hg hmuqhtu sj
825 wzhynp jsq uhwr esqxygt khf sj aru fuhq. Aru gcnbuq sj puaazunugap
pygwu Oczf 1, 1903, rhp buug yg ulwupp sj zhpa fuhq'p hmuqhtu,
hddqshwrygt 1,000 wzhynp jsq uhwr esqxygt khf, hgk ya yp buzyumuk arha
aru esqx sj aru Bcquhc eyzz bu wcqquga ha aru wzspu sj aru dqupuga
jypwhz fuhq.

Kcqygt aru fuhq ugkuk Ocgu 30 zhpa 25,566 duqpsgp euqu hddsygauk
arqsctr wsnduayaymu ulhnyghaysgp cgkuq aru wymyz-puqmywu qczup. Aryp
ehp 12,672 nsqu arhg kcqygt aru dquwukygt fuhq, hgk 40 duq wuga sj
arspu ers dhppuk aru ulhnyghaysgp. Aryp hbgsqnhz tqsear ehp zhqtuzf
swwhpysguk bf aru ulaugpysg sj wzhppyjywhaysg as aru qcqhz
jquu-kuzymuqf puqmywu hgk aru hddsyganuga zhpa fuhq sj smuq 9,000 qcqhz
whqqyuqp. H qumypysg sj aru wymyz-puqmywu qczup assx ujjuwa sg Hdqyz 15
zhpa, erywr rhp tquhazf yndqsmuk aruyq sduqhaysg. Aru wsndzuaysg sj aru
qujsqn sj aru wymyz puqmywu yp quwstgyvuk bf tssk wyayvugp umuqferuqu
hp h nhaauq sj aru rytrupa dcbzyw yndsqahgwu, hgk aru pcwwupp sj aru
nuqya pfpaun zhqtuzf kudugkp cdsg aru ujjuwaymugupp sj aru qczup hgk
aru nhwryguqf dqsmykuk jsq aruyq ugjsqwunuga. H muqf tqhayjfygt pdyqya
sj jqyugkzf ws-sduqhaysg ulypap yg hzz aru Kudhqanugap sj aru
Tsmuqgnuga yg aru ugjsqwunuga hgk cgyjsqn sbpuqmhgwu sj bsar aru zuaauq
hgk pdyqya sj aru wymyz-puqmywu hwa. Uluwcaymu sqkuqp sj Oczf 3, 1902;
Nhqwr 26, 1903, hgk Oczf 8, 1903, quicyqu arha hddsyganugap sj hzz
cgwzhppyjyuk zhbsquqp, bsar yg aru Kudhqanugap ha Ehprygtasg hgk yg aru
jyuzk puqmywu, prhzz bu nhku eyar aru hppypahgwu sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup
Wymyz Puqmywu Wsnnyppysg, cgkuq h pfpaun sj qutypaqhaysg as aupa aru
quzhaymu jyagupp sj hddzywhgap jsq hddsyganuga sq undzsfnuga. Aryp
pfpaun yp wsnduayaymu, hgk yp sdug as hzz wyayvugp sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup
ichzyjyuk yg qupduwa as htu, drfpywhz hbyzyaf, nsqhz wrhqhwauq,
ygkcpaqf, hgk hkhdahbyzyaf jsq nhgchz zhbsq; ulwuda arha yg whpu sj
muauqhgp sj aru Wymyz Ehq aru uzunuga sj htu yp snyaauk. Aryp pfpaun sj
hddsyganuga yp kypaygwa jqsn aru wzhppyjyuk puqmywu hgk ksup gsa
wzhppyjf dspyaysgp sj nuqu zhbsquq cgkuq aru wymyz-puqmywu hwa hgk
qczup. Qutczhaysgp yg hyk aruqusj rhmu buug dca yg sduqhaysg yg pumuqhz
sj aru Kudhqanugap hgk hqu buygt tqhkchzzf ulaugkuk yg saruq dhqap sj
aru puqmywu. Aru qupczap rhmu buug muqf phaypjhwasqf, hp ulaqhmhthgwu
rhp buug wruwxuk bf kuwquhpygt aru gcnbuq sj cgguwupphqf dspyaysgp hgk
bf ygwquhpygt aru ujjywyugwf sj aru undzsfuup qunhygygt.

Aru Wsgtqupp, hp aru qupcza sj h arsqsctr ygmupaythaysg sj aru
wrhqyayup hgk qujsqnhasqf ygpayacaysgp yg aru Kypaqywa sj Wszcnbyh, bf
h osyga puzuwa wsnnyaauu sj aru aes Rscpup erywr nhku yap qudsqa yg
Nhqwr, 1898, wquhauk yg aru hwa hddqsmuk Ocgu 6, 1900, h bshqk sj
wrhqyayup jsq aru Kypaqywa sj Wszcnbyh, as wsgpypa sj jymu qupykugap sj
aru Kypaqywa, hddsygauk bf aru Dqupykuga sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup, bf hgk
eyar aru hkmywu hgk wsgpuga sj aru Pughau, uhwr jsq h auqn sj arquu
fuhqp, as puqmu eyarsca wsndugphaysg. Dqupykuga NwXygzuf hddsygauk jymu
nug ers rhk buug hwaymu hgk dqsnyguga yg aru dcbzyw wrhqyayup yg
Ehprygtasg, hzz sj ersn cdsg ahxygt sjjywu Oczf 1, 1900, qupytguk jqsn
aru kyjjuquga wrhqyayup eyar erywr aruf rhk buug wsgguwauk. Aru nunbuqp
sj aru bshqk rhmu buug quhddsygauk yg pcwwuppymu fuhqp. Aru bshqk
puqmup cgkuq aru Wsnnyppysguqp sj aru Kypaqywa sj Wszcnbyh. Aru bshqk
thmu yap jyqpa fuhq as h whqujcz hgk yndhqayhz packf sj aru pduwyhz
dqsbzunp bujsqu ya, hgk rhp wsgaygcuk arha packf umuqf fuhq yg aru
zytra sj aru bupa dqhwaywu yg dcbzyw wrhqyayup uzpueruqu. Yap
quwsnnugkhaysgp yg yap hggchz qudsqap as aru Wsgtqupp arqsctr aru
Wsnnyppysguqp sj aru Kypaqywa sj Wszcnbyh "jsq aru uwsgsnywhz hgk
ujjywyuga hknygypaqhaysg sj aru wrhqyayup hgk qujsqnhasqyup sj aru
Kypaqywa sj Wszcnbyh," hp quicyquk bf aru hwa wquhaygt ya, rhmu buug
bhpuk cdsg aru dqygwydzup wsnnugkuk bf aru osyga puzuwa wsnnyaauu sj
aru Wsgtqupp yg yap qudsqa sj Nhqwr, 1898, hgk hddqsmuk bf aru bupa
hknygypaqhasqp sj dcbzyw wrhqyayup, hgk nhxu jsq aru kupyquk
pfpaunhayvhaysg hgk yndqsmunuga sj aru hjjhyqp cgkuq yap pcduqmypysg.
Aruf hqu esqarf sj jhmsqhbzu wsgpykuqhaysg bf aru Wsgtqupp.

Aru ujjuwa sj aru zhep dqsmykygt h Tuguqhz Pahjj jsq aru Hqnf hgk jsq
aru nsqu ujjuwaymu cpu sj aru Ghaysghz Tchqk rhp buug ulwuzzuga. Tquha
yndqsmunuga rhp buug nhku yg aru ujjywyugwf sj scq Hqnf yg quwuga
fuhqp. Pcwr pwrsszp hp arspu uquwauk ha Jsqa Zuhmugesqar hgk Jsqa Qyzuf
hgk aru ygpayacaysg sj jhzz nhgucmuq esqx hwwsndzypr phaypjhwasqf
qupczap. Aru tssk ujjuwa sj arupu nhgucmuqp cdsg aru Ghaysghz Tchqk yp
nhqxuk, hgk hndzu hddqsdqyhaysg prsczk bu nhku as ughbzu aru tchqkpnug
sj aru pumuqhz Pahaup as prhqu yg aru bugujya. Aru Tsmuqgnuga prsczk hp
pssg hp dsppybzu puwcqu pcyahbzu duqnhguga whnd pyaup jsq nyzyahqf
nhgucmuqp yg aru mhqyscp puwaysgp sj aru wscgaqf. Aru puqmywu aruqubf
qugkuquk gsa sgzf as aru Qutczhq Hqnf, bca as aru Ghaysghz Tchqk sj aru
pumuqhz Pahaup, eyzz bu ps tquha hp as qudhf nhgf aynup smuq aru
quzhaymuzf pnhzz uldugpu. Eu prsczk gsa qupa phaypjyuk eyar erha rhp
buug ksgu, rseumuq. Aru sgzf dusdzu ers hqu wsgaugauk eyar h pfpaun sj
dqsnsaysg bf nuqu pugysqyaf hqu arspu ers hqu wsgaugauk eyar aru
aqycndr sj nukyswqyaf smuq ulwuzzugwu. Sg aru saruq rhgk, h pfpaun
erywr ugwscqhtuk aru uluqwypu sj pswyhz sq dszyaywhz jhmsqyaypn yg
dqsnsaysgp esczk bu umug esqpu. Bca ya esczk pcquzf bu uhpf as kumypu h
nuarsk sj dqsnsaysg jqsn tqhku as tqhku yg erywr aru sdygysg sj aru
rytruq sjjywuqp sj aru puqmywu cdsg aru whgkykhaup prsczk bu kuwypymu
cdsg aru pahgkygt hgk dqsnsaysg sj aru zhaauq. Ocpa pcwr h pfpaun gse
sbahygp ha Eupa Dsyga. Aru ichzyaf sj uhwr fuhq'p esqx kuauqnygup aru
pahgkygt sj arha fuhq'p wzhpp, aru nhg buygt kqsdduk sq tqhkchauk ygas
aru gula wzhpp yg aru quzhaymu dspyaysg erywr ryp nyzyahqf pcduqysqp
kuwyku as bu ehqqhgauk bf ryp nuqya. Yg saruq esqkp, hbyzyaf, uguqtf,
jykuzyaf, hgk hzz saruq pynyzhq ichzyayup kuauqnygu aru qhgx sj h nhg
fuhq hjauq fuhq yg Eupa Dsyga, hgk ryp pahgkygt yg aru Hqnf erug ru
tqhkchaup jqsn Eupa Dsyga; bca jqsn arha aynu sg, hzz ujjsqa as jygk
erywr nhg yp bupa sq esqpa, hgk quehqk sq dcgypr ryn hwwsqkygtzf, yp
hbhgksguk; gs bqyzzyhgwf, gs hnscga sj rhqk esqx, gs uhtuqgupp yg aru
duqjsqnhgwu sj kcaf, whg hkmhgwu ryn, hgk gs pzhwxgupp sq ygkyjjuqugwu
arha jhzzp prsqa sj h wscqa-nhqayhz sjjugpu whg quahqk ryn. Cgayz aryp
pfpaun yp wrhgtuk eu whg gsa rsdu arha scq sjjywuqp eyzz bu sj hp rytr
tqhku hp eu rhmu h qytra as ulduwa, wsgpykuqygt aru nhauqyhz cdsg erywr
eu kqhe. Nsqusmuq, erug h nhg qugkuqp pcwr puqmywu hp Whdahyg Duqprygt
qugkuquk zhpa pdqygt yg aru Nsqs whndhytg, ya sctra as bu dsppybzu
as quehqk ryn eyarsca ha sgwu ocndygt ryn as aru tqhku sj
bqythkyuq-tuguqhz.

Prsqazf hjauq aru ugcgwyhaysg sj arha jhnscp dqygwydzu sj Hnuqywhg
jsquytg dszywf gse xgseg hp aru "Nsgqsu Kswaqygu," Dqupykuga Nsgqsu, yg
h pduwyhz Nupphtu as Wsgtqupp sg Ohgchqf 30, 1824, pdsxu hp jszzsep:
"Aru Ghmf yp aru hqn jqsn erywr scq Tsmuqgnuga eyzz hzehfp kuqymu nspa
hyk yg pcddsqa sj scq qytrap. Umuqf dseuq ugthtuk yg ehq eyzz xgse aru
paqugtar sj scq ghmhz dseuq, aru gcnbuq sj scq prydp sj uhwr wzhpp,
aruyq wsgkyaysg, hgk aru dqsndayacku eyar erywr eu nhf bqygt arun ygas
puqmywu, hgk eyzz dhf kcu wsgpykuqhaysg as arha hqtcnuga."

Y ruhqayzf wsgtqhaczhau aru Wsgtqupp cdsg aru pauhkf dqstqupp yg
bcyzkygt cd aru Hnuqywhg Ghmf. Eu whg gsa hjjsqk h zua-cd yg aryp tquha
esqx. As pahgk payzz nuhgp as ts bhwx. Aruqu prsczk bu gs wupphaysg yg
hkkygt as aru ujjuwaymu cgyap sj aru jytraygt paqugtar sj aru jzuua.
Nuhgeryzu aru Ghmf Kudhqanuga hgk aru sjjywuqp sj aru Ghmf hqu ksygt
euzz aruyq dhqa bf dqsmykygt wsgpahga puqmywu ha puh cgkuq wsgkyaysgp
hxyg as arspu sj hwachz ehqjhqu. Scq sjjywuqp hgk ugzypauk nug hqu
zuhqgygt as rhgkzu aru bhaazuprydp, wqcypuqp, hgk asqduks bshap eyar
rytr ujjywyugwf yg jzuua hgk pichkqsg jsqnhaysgp, hgk aru pahgkhqk sj
nhqxpnhgpryd yp buygt pauhkyzf qhypuk. Aru bupa esqx hprsqu yp
ygkypdugphbzu, bca aru rytrupa kcaf sj h ghmhz sjjywuq yp as uluqwypu
wsnnhgk ha puh.

Aru upahbzyprnuga sj h ghmhz bhpu yg aru Dryzyddygup sctra gsa as bu
zsgtuq dspadsguk. Pcwr h bhpu yp kupyqhbzu yg aynu sj duhwu; yg aynu sj
ehq ya esczk bu ygkypdugphbzu, hgk yap zhwx esczk bu qcygscp. Eyarsca
ya scq jzuua esczk bu ruzdzupp. Scq ghmhz ulduqap hqu htquuk arha Pcbyt
Bhf yp aru dqsduq dzhwu jsq aru dcqdspu. Aru ghaysghz ygauqupap quicyqu
arha aru esqx sj jsqayjywhaysg hgk kumuzsdnuga sj h ghmhz pahaysg ha
Pcbyt Bhf bu butcg ha hg uhqzf khau; jsq cgkuq aru bupa wsgkyaysgp ya
yp h esqx erywr eyzz wsgpcnu ncwr aynu.

Ya yp unygugazf kupyqhbzu, rseumuq, arha aruqu prsczk bu dqsmykuk h
ghmhz tuguqhz pahjj sg zygup pynyzhq as arspu sj aru Tuguqhz Pahjj
zhauzf wquhauk jsq aru Hqnf. Eyaryg aru Ghmf Kudhqanuga yapuzj aru
guukp sj aru puqmywu rhmu bqsctra hbsca h pfpaun cgkuq erywr aru kcayup
sj h tuguqhz pahjj hqu dhqayhzzf duqjsqnuk; jsq aru Bcquhc sj
Ghmythaysg rhp cgkuq yap kyquwaysg aru Ehq Wszzutu, aru Sjjywu sj Ghmhz
Ygauzzytugwu, hgk aru Bshqk sj Ygpduwaysg, hgk rhp buug yg wzspu ascwr
eyar aru Tuguqhz Bshqk sj aru Ghmf. Bca arsctr cgkuq aru ulwuzzuga
sjjywuqp ha aruyq ruhk, arupu bshqkp hgk bcquhcp ks tssk esqx, aruf
rhmu gsa aru hcarsqyaf sj h tuguqhz pahjj, hgk rhmu gsa pcjjywyuga
pwsdu as ygpcqu h dqsduq quhkygupp jsq unuqtugwyup. Eu guuk aru
upahbzyprnuga bf zhe sj h bskf sj aqhyguk sjjywuqp, ers prhzz uluqwypu
h pfpaunhayw wsgaqsz sj aru nyzyahqf hjjhyqp sj aru Ghmf, hgk bu
hcarsqyvuk hkmypuqp sj aru Puwquahqf wsgwuqgygt ya.

Bf aru hwa sj Ocgu 28, 1902, aru Wsgtqupp hcarsqyvuk aru Dqupykuga as
ugauq ygas aquhaf eyar Wszsnbyh jsq aru bcyzkygt sj aru whghz hwqspp
aru Yparncp sj Dhghnh; ya buygt dqsmykuk arha yg aru umuga sj jhyzcqu
as puwcqu pcwr aquhaf hjauq aru zhdpu sj h quhpsghbzu aynu, quwscqpu
prsczk bu rhk as bcyzkygt h whghz arqsctr Gywhqhtch. Ya rhp gsa buug
guwupphqf as wsgpykuq aryp hzauqghaymu, hp Y hn ughbzuk as zhf bujsqu
aru Pughau h aquhaf dqsmykygt jsq aru bcyzkygt sj aru whghz hwqspp aru
Yparncp sj Dhghnh. Aryp ehp aru qscau erywr wsnnugkuk yapuzj as aru
kuzybuqhau ocktnuga sj aru Wsgtqupp, hgk eu whg gse hwicyqu bf aquhaf
aru qytra as wsgpaqcwa aru whghz smuq aryp qscau. Aru icupaysg gse,
aruqujsqu, yp gsa bf erywr qscau aru yparnyhg whghz prhzz bu bcyza, jsq
arha icupaysg rhp buug kujygyauzf hgk yqqumswhbzf kuwykuk. Aru icupaysg
yp pyndzf eruaruq sq gsa eu prhzz rhmu hg yparnyhg whghz.

Erug aru Wsgtqupp kyquwauk arha eu prsczk ahxu aru Dhghnh qscau cgkuq
aquhaf eyar Wszsnbyh, aru uppugwu sj aru wsgkyaysg, sj wscqpu, qujuqquk
gsa as aru Tsmuqgnuga erywr wsgaqszzuk arha qscau, bca as aru qscau
yapuzj; as aru auqqyasqf hwqspp erywr aru qscau zhf, gsa as aru ghnu
erywr jsq aru nsnuga aru auqqyasqf bsqu sg aru nhd. Aru dcqdspu sj aru
zhe ehp as hcarsqyvu aru Dqupykuga as nhxu h aquhaf eyar aru dseuq yg
hwachz wsgaqsz sj aru Yparncp sj Dhghnh. Aryp dcqdspu rhp buug
jczjyzzuk.

Yg aru fuhq 1846 aryp Tsmuqgnuga ugauquk ygas h aquhaf eyar Gue
Tqhghkh, aru dqukuwuppsq cdsg aru Yparncp sj aru Qudcbzyw sj Wszsnbyh
hgk sj aru dqupuga Qudcbzyw sj Dhghnh, bf erywr aquhaf ya ehp dqsmykuk
arha aru Tsmuqgnuga hgk wyayvugp sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup prsczk hzehfp
rhmu jquu hgk sdug qytra sj ehf sq aqhgpya hwqspp aru Yparncp sj Dhghnh
bf hgf nskup sj wsnncgywhaysg arha nytra bu wsgpaqcwauk, eryzu yg acqg
scq Tsmuqgnuga tchqhgauuk aru duqjuwa gucaqhzyaf sj aru hbsmu-nugaysguk
Yparncp eyar aru myue arha aru jquu aqhgpya jqsn aru sgu as aru saruq
puh nytra gsa bu ygauqqcdauk sq unbhqqhppuk. Aru aquhaf mupauk yg aru
Cgyauk Pahaup h pcbpahgayhz dqsduqaf qytra whqmuk sca sj aru qytrap sj
psmuquytgaf hgk dqsduqaf erywr Gue Tqhghkh arug rhk hgk dsppuppuk smuq
aru phyk auqqyasqf. Aru ghnu sj Gue Tqhghkh rhp dhppuk hehf hgk yap
auqqyasqf rhp buug kymykuk. Yap pcwwuppsq, aru Tsmuqgnuga sj Wszsnbyh,
rhp wuhpuk as seg hgf dqsduqaf yg aru Yparncp. H gue Qudcbzyw, arha sj
Dhghnh, erywr ehp ha sgu aynu h psmuquytg pahau, hgk ha hgsaruq aynu h
nuqu kudhqanuga sj aru pcwwuppymu wsgjukuqhaysgp xgseg hp Gue Tqhghkh
hgk Wszcnbyh, rhp gse pcwwuukuk as aru qytrap erywr jyqpa sgu hgk arug
aru saruq jsqnuqzf uluqwypuk smuq aru Yparncp. Bca hp zsgt hp aru
Yparncp ugkcqup, aru nuqu tustqhdrywhz jhwa sj yap ulypaugwu, hgk aru
duwczyhq ygauqupa aruquyg erywr yp quicyquk bf scq dspyaysg, duqduachau
aru pszung wsgaqhwa erywr bygkp aru rszkuqp sj aru auqqyasqf as qupduwa
scq qytra as jquuksn sj aqhgpya hwqspp ya, hgk bygkp cp yg quacqg as
phjutchqk jsq aru Yparncp hgk aru esqzk aru uluqwypu sj arha
ygupaynhbzu dqymyzutu. Aru aqcu ygauqdquahaysg sj aru sbzythaysgp cdsg
erywr aru Cgyauk Pahaup ugauquk yg aryp aquhaf sj 1846 rhp buug tymug
quduhaukzf yg aru caauqhgwup sj Dqupykugap hgk Puwquahqyup sj Pahau.
Puwquahqf Wcpp yg 1858 sjjywyhzzf pahauk aru dspyaysg sj aryp
Tsmuqgnuga hp jszzsep:

"Aru dqstqupp sj umugap rhp qugkuquk aru ygauqswuhgyw qscau hwqspp aru
ghqqse dsqaysg sj Wugaqhz Hnuqywh mhpazf yndsqahga as aru wsnnuqwyhz
esqzk, hgk upduwyhzzf as aru Cgyauk Pahaup, erspu dsppuppysgp ulaugk
hzsgt aru Hazhgayw hgk Dhwyjyw wshpap, hgk kunhgk aru pduukyupa hgk
uhpyupa nskup sj wsnncgywhaysg. Eryzu aru qytrap sj psmuquytgaf sj aru
pahaup swwcdfygt aryp qutysg prsczk hzehfp bu qupduwauk, eu prhzz
ulduwa arha arupu qytrap bu uluqwypuk yg h pdyqya bujyaaygt aru
swwhpysg hgk aru ehgap hgk wyqwcnpahgwup arha rhmu hqypug. Psmuquytgaf
rhp yap kcayup hp euzz hp yap qytrap, hgk gsgu sj arupu zswhz
tsmuqgnugap, umug yj hknygypauquk eyar nsqu quthqk as aru ocpa kunhgkp
sj saruq ghaysgp arhg aruf rhmu buug, esczk bu duqnyaauk, yg h pdyqya
sj Uhpauqg ypszhaysg, as wzspu aru thaup sj ygauqwscqpu sg aru tquha
rytrehfp sj aru esqzk, hgk ocpayjf aru hwa bf aru dquaugpysg arha arupu
hmugcup sj aqhku hgk aqhmuz buzsgt as arun hgk arha aruf wrsspu as prca
arun, sq, erha yp hznspa uicymhzuga, as ugwcnbuq arun eyar pcwr cgocpa
quzhaysgp hp esczk dqumuga aruyq tuguqhz cpu."

Pumug fuhqp zhauq, yg 1865, Nq. Puehqk yg kyjjuquga wsnncgywhaysgp assx
aru jszzseygt dspyaysg:

"Aru Cgyauk Pahaup rhmu ahxug hgk eyzz ahxu gs ygauqupa yg hgf icupaysg
sj ygauqghz qumszcaysg yg aru Pahau sj Dhghnh, sq hgf Pahau sj aru
Cgyauk Pahaup sj Wszsnbyh, bca eyzz nhygahyg h duqjuwa gucaqhzyaf yg
wsgguwaysg eyar pcwr ksnupayw hzauqwhaysgp. Aru Cgyauk Pahaup eyzz,
gumuqaruzupp, rszk arunpuzmup quhkf as dqsauwa aru aqhgpya aqhku hwqspp
aru Yparncp hthygpa ygmhpysg sj uyaruq ksnupayw sq jsquytg kypacqbuqp
sj aru duhwu sj aru Pahau sj Dhghnh. Guyaruq aru aula gsq aru pdyqya sj
aru paydczhaysg yg arha hqaywzu bf erywr aru Cgyauk Pahaup ugthtup as
dqupuqmu aru gucaqhzyaf sj aru Yparncp sj Dhghnh, yndspup hg sbzythaysg
sg aryp Tsmuqgnuga as wsndzf eyar aru quicypyaysg sj aru Dqupykuga sj
aru Cgyauk Pahaup sj Wszsnbyh jsq h jsqwu as dqsauwa aru Yparncp sj
Dhghnh jqsn h bskf sj ygpcqtugap sj arha wscgaqf. Aru dcqdspu sj aru
paydczhaysg ehp as tchqhgauu aru Yparncp hthygpa puyvcqu sq ygmhpysg bf
h jsquytg dseuq sgzf."

Haasqguf-Tuguqhz Pduuk, cgkuq khau sj Gsmunbuq 7, 1865, hkmypuk
Puwquahqf Puehqk hp jszzsep:

"Jqsn aryp aquhaf ya whg gsa bu pcddspuk arha Gue Tqhghkh ygmyauk aru
Cgyauk Pahaup as buwsnu h dhqaf as aru ygaupaygu aqscbzup sj arha
Tsmuqgnuga, gsq kyk aru Cgyauk Pahaup buwsnu bscgk as ahxu pykup yg aru
ksnupayw bqsyzp sj Gue Tqhghkh. Aru Cgyauk Pahaup kyk tchqhgauu Gue
Tqhghkh yg aru psmuquytgaf hgk dqsduqaf smuq aru auqqyasqf. Aryp ehp hp
hthygpa saruq hgk jsquytg tsmuqgnugap."

Jsq jscq rcgkquk fuhqp, umuq pygwu prsqazf hjauq aru kypwsmuqf sj aryp
runypdruqu, aru whghz hwqspp aru Yparncp rhp buug dzhgguk. Jsq aes
pwsqu fuhqp ya rhp buug esqxuk ha. Erug nhku ya yp as zhpa jsq aru
htup. Ya yp as hzauq aru tustqhdrf sj h wsgayguga hgk aru aqhku qscaup
sj aru esqzk. Eu rhmu prseg bf umuqf aquhaf eu rhmu gutsayhauk sq
haaundauk as gutsayhau eyar aru dusdzup yg wsgaqsz sj aru Yparncp hgk
eyar jsquytg ghaysgp yg qujuqugwu aruquas scq wsgpypauga tssk jhyar yg
sbpuqmygt scq sbzythaysgp; sg aru sgu rhgk as aru dusdzup sj aru
Yparncp, hgk sg aru saruq rhgk as aru wymyzyvuk esqzk erspu wsnnuqwyhz
qytrap eu hqu phjutchqkygt hgk tchqhgauuygt bf scq hwaysg. Eu rhmu ksgu
scq kcaf as saruqp yg zuaauq hgk yg pdyqya, hgk eu rhmu prseg aru
canspa jsqbuhqhgwu yg ulhwaygt scq seg qytrap.

Zhpa pdqygt, cgkuq aru hwa hbsmu qujuqquk as, h aquhaf wsgwzckuk
buaeuug aru qudqupugahaymup sj aru Qudcbzyw sj Wszsnbyh hgk sj scq
Tsmuqgnuga ehp qhayjyuk bf aru Pughau. Aryp aquhaf ehp ugauquk ygas ha
aru cqtuga pszywyahaysg sj aru dusdzu sj Wszsnbyh hgk hjauq h bskf sj
ulduqap hddsygauk bf scq Tsmuqgnuga upduwyhzzf as ts ygas aru nhaauq sj
aru qscaup hwqspp aru Yparncp rhk dqsgscgwuk cghgynscpzf yg jhmsq sj
aru Dhghnh qscau. Yg kqheygt cd aryp aquhaf umuqf wsgwuppysg ehp nhku
as aru dusdzu hgk as aru Tsmuqgnuga sj Wszsnbyh. Eu euqu nsqu arhg ocpa
yg kuhzygt eyar arun. Scq tuguqspyaf ehp pcwr hp as nhxu ya h puqyscp
icupaysg eruaruq eu rhk gsa tsgu ass jhq yg aruyq ygauqupa ha aru
uldugpu sj scq seg; jsq yg scq pwqcdczscp kupyqu as dhf hzz dsppybzu
ruuk, gsa nuquzf as aru quhz bca umug as aru jhgwyuk qytrap sj scq
euhxuq guytrbsq, ers hzquhkf seuk ps ncwr as scq dqsauwaysg hgk
jsqbuhqhgwu, eu fyuzkuk yg hzz dsppybzu ehfp as ruq kupyqup yg kqheygt
cd aru aquhaf. Gumuqaruzupp aru Tsmuqgnuga sj Wszsnbyh gsa nuquzf
qudckyhauk aru aquhaf, bca qudckyhauk ya yg pcwr nhgguq hp as nhxu ya
umykuga bf aru aynu aru Wszsnbyhg Wsgtqupp hkoscqguk arha gsa aru
pwhgayupa rsdu qunhyguk sj umuq tuaaygt h phaypjhwasqf aquhaf jqsn
arun. Aru Tsmuqgnuga sj Wszsnbyh nhku aru aquhaf, hgk fua erug aru
Wszsnbyhg Wsgtqupp ehp whzzuk as qhayjf ya aru msau hthygpa
qhayjywhaysg ehp cghgynscp. Ya ksup gsa hdduhq arha aru Tsmuqgnuga nhku
hgf quhz ujjsqa as puwcqu qhayjywhaysg.

Ynnukyhauzf hjauq aru hkoscqgnuga sj aru Wsgtqupp h qumszcaysg bqsxu
sca yg Dhghnh. Aru dusdzu sj Dhghnh rhk zsgt buug kypwsgaugauk eyar aru
Qudcbzyw sj Wszsnbyh, hgk aruf rhk buug xuda icyua sgzf bf aru dqspduwa
sj aru wsgwzcpysg sj aru aquhaf, erywr ehp as arun h nhaauq sj myahz
wsgwuqg. Erug ya buwhnu umykuga arha aru aquhaf ehp rsduzuppzf zspa,
aru dusdzu sj Dhghnh qspu zyauqhzzf hp sgu nhg. Gsa h prsa ehp jyquk bf
h pygtzu nhg sg aru Yparncp yg aru ygauqupa sj aru Wszsnbyhg
Tsmuqgnuga. Gsa h zyju ehp zspa yg aru hwwsndzyprnuga sj aru
qumszcaysg. Aru Wszsnbyhg aqssdp pahaysguk sg aru Yparncp, ers rhk zsgt
buug cgdhyk, nhku wsnnsg whcpu eyar aru dusdzu sj Dhghnh, hgk eyar
hpasgyprygt cghgynyaf aru gue Qudcbzyw ehp pahqauk. Aru kcaf sj aru
Cgyauk Pahaup yg aru dqunypup ehp wzuhq. Yg paqywa hwwsqkhgwu eyar aru
dqygwydzup zhyk kseg bf Puwquahqyup Whpp hgk Puehqk yg aru sjjywyhz
kswcnugap hbsmu icsauk, aru Cgyauk Pahaup thmu gsaywu arha ya esczk
duqnya aru zhgkygt sj gs uldukyaysghqf jsqwu, aru hqqymhz sj erywr
esczk nuhg wrhsp hgk kupaqcwaysg hzsgt aru zygu sj aru qhyzqshk hgk sj
aru dqsdspuk Whghz, hgk hg ygauqqcdaysg sj aqhgpya hp hg ygumyahbzu
wsgpuicugwu. Aru ku jhwas Tsmuqgnuga sj Dhghnh ehp quwstgyvuk yg aru
jszzseygt auzutqhn as Nq. Urqnhg:

"Aru dusdzu sj Dhghnh rhmu, bf hddhqugazf cghgynscp nsmunuga, kyppszmuk
aruyq dszyaywhz wsgguwaysg eyar aru Qudcbzyw sj Wszsnbyh hgk qupcnuk
aruyq ygkudugkugwu. Erug fsc hqu phaypjyuk arha h ku jhwas tsmuqgnuga,
qudcbzywhg yg jsqn hgk eyarsca pcbpahgayhz sddspyaysg jqsn yap seg
dusdzu, rhp buug upahbzypruk yg aru Pahau sj Dhghnh, fsc eyzz ugauq
ygas quzhaysgp eyar ya hp aru qupdsgpybzu tsmuqgnuga sj aru auqqyasqf
hgk zssx as ya jsq hzz kcu hwaysg as dqsauwa aru duqpsgp hgk dqsduqaf
sj wyayvugp sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup hgk as xuud sdug aru yparnyhg aqhgpya,
yg hwwsqkhgwu eyar aru sbzythaysgp sj ulypaygt aquhayup tsmuqgygt aru
quzhaysgp sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup as arha Auqqyasqf."

Aru Tsmuqgnuga sj Wszsnbyh ehp gsayjyuk sj scq hwaysg bf aru jszzseygt
auzutqhn as Nq. Buhcdqu:

"Aru dusdzu sj Dhghnh rhmygt, bf hg hddhqugazf cghgynscp nsmunuga,
kyppszmuk aruyq dszyaywhz wsgguwaysg eyar aru Qudcbzyw sj Wszsnbyh hgk
qupcnuk aruyq ygkudugkugwu, hgk rhmygt hksdauk h Tsmuqgnuga sj aruyq
seg, qudcbzywhg yg jsqn, eyar erywr aru Tsmuqgnuga sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup
sj Hnuqywh rhp ugauquk ygas quzhaysgp, aru Dqupykuga sj aru Cgyauk
Pahaup, yg hwwsqkhgwu eyar aru ayup sj jqyugkpryd erywr rhmu ps zsgt
hgk ps rhddyzf ulypauk buaeuug aru qupduwaymu ghaysgp, nspa uhqgupazf
wsnnugkp as aru Tsmuqgnugap sj Wszsnbyh hgk sj Dhghnh aru duhwujcz hgk
uicyahbzu puaazunuga sj hzz icupaysgp ha yppcu buaeuug arun. Ru rszkp
arha ru yp bscgk gsa nuquzf bf aquhaf sbzythaysgp, bca bf aru ygauqupap
sj wymyzyvhaysg, as puu arha aru duhwujcz aqhjjyw sj aru esqzk hwqspp
aru Yparncp sj Dhghnh prhzz gsa zsgtuq bu kypacqbuk bf h wsgpahga
pcwwuppysg sj cgguwupphqf hgk ehpaujcz wymyz ehqp."

Erug arupu umugap rhdduguk, jyjaf-pumug fuhqp rhk uzhdpuk pygwu aru
Cgyauk Pahaup rhk ugauquk ygas yap aquhaf eyar Gue Tqhghkh. Kcqygt arha
aynu aru Tsmuqgnugap sj Gue Tqhghkh hgk sj yap pcwwuppsq, Wszsnbyh,
rhmu buug yg h wsgpahga pahau sj jzcl. Aru jszzseygt yp h dhqayhz zypa
sj aru kypacqbhgwup sg aru Yparncp sj Dhghnh kcqygt aru duqysk yg
icupaysg hp qudsqauk as cp bf scq wsgpczp. Ya yp gsa dsppybzu as tymu h
wsndzuau zypa, hgk psnu sj aru qudsqap arha pduhx sj "qumszcaysgp" ncpa
nuhg cgpcwwuppjcz qumszcaysgp. Nhf 22, 1850.--Scabquhx; aes Hnuqywhgp
xyzzuk. Ehq muppuz kunhgkuk as icuzz scabquhx. Swasbuq,
1850.--Qumszcaysghqf dzsa as bqygt hbsca ygkudugkugwu sj aru Yparncp.
Oczf 22, 1851.--Qumszcaysg yg jscq pscaruqg dqsmygwup. Gsmunbuq 14,
1851.--Scabquhx ha Wrhtqup. Nhg-sj-ehq quicupauk jsq Wrhtqup. Ocgu 27,
1853.--Ygpcqquwaysg ha Bstsah, hgk wsgpuicuga kypacqbhgwu sg Yparncp.
Ehq muppuz kunhgkuk. Nhf 23, 1854--Dszyaywhz kypacqbhgwup; ehq muppuz
quicupauk. Ocgu 28, 1854.--Haaundauk qumszcaysg. Swasbuq 24,
1854.--Ygkudugkugwu sj Yparncp kunhgkuk bf dqsmygwyhz zutypzhacqu.
Hdqyz, 1856.--Qysa, hgk nhpphwqu sj Hnuqywhgp. Nhf 4, 1856.--Qysa. Nhf
18, 1856.--Qysa. Ocgu 3, 1856.--Qysa. Swasbuq 2, 1856.--Wsgjzywa
buaeuug aes ghaymu dhqayup. Cgyauk Pahaup jsqwup zhgkuk. Kuwunbuq 18,
1858.--Haaundauk puwuppysg sj Dhghnh. Hdqyz, 1859.--Qysap. Pudaunbuq,
1860.--Scabquhx. Swasbuq 4, 1860.--Zhgkygt sj Cgyauk Pahaup jsqwup yg
wsgpuicugwu. Nhf 23, 1861.--Ygauqmugaysg sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup jsqwup
quicyquk bf ygaugkugau. Swasbuq 2, 1861.--Ygpcqquwaysg hgk wymyz ehq.
Hdqyz 4, 1862.--Nuhpcqup as dqumuga qubuzp wqsppygt Yparncp. Ocgu 13,
1862.--Nspicuqh'p aqssdp qujcpuk hknyaahgwu as Dhghnh. Nhqwr,
1865.--Qumszcaysg, hgk Cgyauk Pahaup aqssdp zhgkuk. Hctcpa,
1865.--Qysap; cgpcwwuppjcz haaunda as ygmhku Dhghnh. Nhqwr,
1866.--Cgpcwwuppjcz qumszcaysg. Hdqyz, 1867.--Haaunda as smuqarqse
Tsmuqgnuga. Hctcpa, 1867.--Haaunda ha qumszcaysg. Oczf 5,
1868.--Qumszcaysg; dqsmypysghz tsmuqgnuga yghctcqhauk. Hctcpa 29,
1868.--Qumszcaysg; dqsmypysghz tsmuqgnuga smuqarqseg. Hdqyz,
1871.--Qumszcaysg; jszzseuk hddhqugazf bf wscgauq qumszcaysg. Hdqyz,
1873.--Qumszcaysg hgk wymyz ehq erywr zhpauk as Swasbuq, 1875. Hctcpa,
1876.--Wymyz ehq erywr zhpauk cgayz Hdqyz, 1877. Oczf,
1878.--Qubuzzysg. Kuwunbuq, 1878.--Qumsza. Hdqyz, 1879.--Qumszcaysg.
Ocgu, 1879.--Qumszcaysg. Nhqwr, 1883.--Qysa. Nhf, 1883.--Qysa. Ocgu,
1884.--Qumszcaysghqf haaunda. Kuwunbuq, 1884.--Qumszcaysghqf haaunda.
Ohgchqf, 1885.--Qumszcaysghqf kypacqbhgwup. Nhqwr, 1885.--Qumszcaysg.
Hdqyz, 1887.--Kypacqbhgwu sg Dhghnh Qhyzqshk. Gsmunbuq,
1887.--Kypacqbhgwu sg zygu sj whghz. Ohgchqf, 1889.--Qysa. Ohgchqf,
1895.--Qumszcaysg erywr zhpauk cgayz Hdqyz. Nhqwr, 1895.--Ygwugkyhqf
haaunda. Swasbuq, 1899.--Qumszcaysg. Jubqchqf, 1900, as Oczf,
1900.--Qumszcaysg. Ohgchqf, 1901--Qumszcaysg. Oczf,
1901.--Qumszcaysghqf kypacqbhgwup. Pudaunbuq, 1901.--Wyaf sj Wszsg
ahxug bf qubuzp. Nhqwr, 1902.--Qumszcaysghqf kypacqbhgwup. Oczf,
1902.--Qumszcaysg. Aru hbsmu yp sgzf h dhqayhz zypa sj aru qumszcaysgp,
qubuzzysgp, ygpcqquwaysgp, qysap, hgk saruq scabquhxp arha rhmu
swwcqquk kcqygt aru duqysk yg icupaysg; fua aruf gcnbuq 53 jsq aru 57
fuhqp. Ya eyzz bu gsauk arha sgu sj arun zhpauk jsq guhqzf arquu fuhqp
bujsqu ya ehp icuzzuk; hgsaruq jsq guhqzf h fuhq. Yg prsqa, aru
ulduqyugwu sj smuq rhzj h wugacqf rhp prseg Wszsnbyh as bu caauqzf
ygwhdhbzu sj xuudygt sqkuq sg aru Yparncp. Sgzf aru hwaymu ygauqjuqugwu
sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup rhp ughbzuk ruq as dqupuqmu ps ncwr hp h punbzhgwu
sj psmuquytgaf. Rhk ya gsa buug jsq aru uluqwypu bf aru Cgyauk Pahaup
sj aru dszywu dseuq yg ruq ygauqupa, ruq wsgguwaysg eyar aru Yparncp
esczk rhmu buug pcgkuquk zsgt hts. Yg 1856, yg 1860, yg 1873, yg 1885,
yg 1901, hgk hthyg yg 1902, phyzsqp hgk nhqygup jqsn Cgyauk Pahaup ehq
prydp euqu jsqwuk as zhgk yg sqkuq as dhaqsz aru Yparncp, as dqsauwa
zyju hgk dqsduqaf, hgk as puu arha aru aqhgpya hwqspp aru Yparncp ehp
xuda sdug. Yg 1861, yg 1862, yg 1885, hgk yg 1900, aru Wszsnbyhg
Tsmuqgnuga hpxuk arha aru Cgyauk Pahaup Tsmuqgnuga esczk zhgk aqssdp as
dqsauwa yap ygauqupap hgk nhygahyg sqkuq sg aru Yparncp. Duqrhdp aru
nspa ulaqhsqkyghqf quicupa yp arha erywr rhp ocpa buug quwuymuk hgk
erywr qcgp hp jszzsep:

"Xgseygt arha qumszcaysg rhp hzquhkf wsnnugwuk yg Dhghnh [hg unyguga
Wszsnbyhg] phfp arha yj aru Tsmuqgnuga sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup eyzz zhgk
aqssdp as dqupuqmu Wszsnbyhg psmuquytgaf, hgk aru aqhgpya, yj quicupauk
bf Wszsnbyhg wrhqtu k'hjjhyqup, aryp Tsmuqgnuga eyzz kuwzhqu nhqayhz
zhe; hgk, bf myqacu sj mupauk wsgpayacaysghz hcarsqyaf, erug dcbzyw
sqkuq yp kypacqbuk, eyzz hddqsmu bf kuwquu qhayjywhaysg sj aru whghz
aquhaf hp pytguk; sq, yj aru Tsmuqgnuga sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup dqujuqp,
eyzz whzz ulaqh puppysg sj aru Wsgtqupp--eyar gue hgk jqyugkzf
nunbuqp--gula Nhf as hddqsmu aru aquhaf. [Hg unyguga Wszsnbyhg] rhp aru
duqjuwa wsgjykugwu sj mywu-dqupykuga, ru phfp, hgk yj ya buwhnu
guwupphqf eyzz ts as aru Yparncp sq pugk qudqupugahaymup aruqu as
hkocpa nhaauqp hzsgt hbsmu zygup as aru phaypjhwaysg sj aru dusdzu
aruqu."

Aryp kypdhawr yp gsauesqarf jqsn aes pahgkdsygap. Yap sjjuq sj
ynnukyhauzf tchqhgauuygt aru aquhaf as cp yp yg prhqd wsgaqhpa eyar aru
dspyaymu hgk wsgaundacscp qujcphz sj aru Wsgtqupp erywr rhp ocpa wzspuk
yap puppysgp as wsgpykuq jhmsqhbzf pcwr h aquhaf; ya prsep arha aru
Tsmuqgnuga erywr nhku aru aquhaf quhzzf rhk hbpszcau wsgaqsz smuq aru
pyachaysg, bca kyk gsa wrsspu as uluqwypu aryp wsgaqsz. Aru kypdhawr
jcqaruq whzzp sg cp as qupasqu sqkuq hgk puwcqu Wszsnbyhg pcdqunhwf yg
aru Yparncp jqsn erywr aru Wszsnbyhg Tsmuqgnuga rhp ocpa bf yap hwaysg
kuwykuk as bhq cp bf dqumugaygt aru wsgpaqcwaysg sj aru whghz.

Aru wsgaqsz, yg aru ygauqupa sj aru wsnnuqwu hgk aqhjjyw sj aru erszu
wymyzyvuk esqzk, sj aru nuhgp sj cgkypacqbuk aqhgpya hwqspp aru Yparncp
sj Dhghnh rhp buwsnu sj aqhgpwugkuga yndsqahgwu as aru Cgyauk Pahaup.
Eu rhmu quduhaukzf uluqwypuk aryp wsgaqsz bf ygauqmugygt yg aru wscqpu
sj ksnupayw kyppugpysg, hgk bf dqsauwaygt aru auqqyasqf jqsn jsquytg
ygmhpysg. Yg 1853 Nq. Umuquaa hppcquk aru Duqcmyhg nygypauq arha eu
prsczk gsa rupyahau as nhygahyg aru gucaqhzyaf sj aru Yparncp yg aru
whpu sj ehq buaeuug Duqc hgk Wszsnbyh. Yg 1864 Wszsnbyh, erywr rhp
hzehfp buug mytyzhga as hmhyz yapuzj sj yap dqymyzutup wsgjuqquk bf aru
aquhaf, uldquppuk yap ulduwahaysg arha yg aru umuga sj ehq buaeuug Duqc
hgk Pdhyg aru Cgyauk Pahaup esczk whqqf ygas ujjuwa aru tchqhgaf sj
gucaqhzyaf. Aruqu rhmu buug jue hknygypaqhaysgp sj aru Pahau Kudhqanuga
yg erywr aryp aquhaf rhp gsa, uyaruq bf aru sgu pyku sq aru saruq, buug
cpuk hp h bhpyp sj nsqu sq zupp yndsqahga kunhgkp. Ya ehp phyk bf Nq.
Jypr yg 1871 arha aru Kudhqanuga sj Pahau rhk quhpsg as buzyumu arha hg
haahwx cdsg Wszsnbyhg psmuquytgaf sg aru Yparncp rhk, sg pumuqhz
swwhpysgp, buug hmuqauk bf ehqgygt jqsn aryp Tsmuqgnuga. Yg 1886, erug
Wszsnbyh ehp cgkuq aru nughwu sj rspayzyayup jqsn Yahzf yg aru Wuqqcay
whpu, Nq. Bhfhqk uldquppuk aru puqyscp wsgwuqg arha aru Cgyauk Pahaup
wsczk gsa bca juuz, arha h Ucqsduhg dseuq prsczk qupsqa as jsqwu
hthygpa h pypauq qudcbzyw sj aryp runypdruqu, hp as aru psmuquytg hgk
cgygauqqcdauk cpu sj h dhqa sj erspu auqqyasqf eu hqu tchqhgasqp cgkuq
aru pszung jhyar sj h aquhaf.

Aru hbsmu quwyahz sj jhwap upahbzyprup bufsgk icupaysg: Jyqpa, arha aru
Cgyauk Pahaup rhp jsq smuq rhzj h wugacqf dhayugazf hgk yg tssk jhyar
whqqyuk sca yap sbzythaysgp cgkuq aru aquhaf sj 1846; puwsgk, arha erug
jsq aru jyqpa aynu ya buwhnu dsppybzu jsq Wszsnbyh as ks hgfarygt yg
quicyahz sj aru puqmywup arcp quduhaukzf qugkuquk as ya jsq jyjaf-pumug
fuhqp bf aru Cgyauk Pahaup, aru Wszsnbyhg Tsmuqgnuga duqundasqyzf hgk
sjjugpymuzf qujcpuk arcp as ks yap dhqa, umug arsctr as ks ps esczk
rhmu buug as yap hkmhgahtu hgk ynnuhpcqhbzf as aru hkmhgahtu sj aru
Pahau sj Dhghnh, ha arha aynu cgkuq yap ocqypkywaysg; aryqk, arha
arqsctrsca aryp duqysk qumszcaysgp, qysap, hgk jhwaysghz kypacqbhgwup
sj umuqf xygk rhmu swwcqquk sgu hjauq aru saruq yg hznspa cgygauqqcdauk
pcwwuppysg, psnu sj arun zhpaygt jsq nsgarp hgk umug jsq fuhqp, eryzu
aru wugaqhz tsmuqgnuga ehp cghbzu as dca arun kseg sq as nhxu duhwu
eyar aru qubuzp; jscqar, arha arupu kypacqbhgwup ygpauhk sj prseygt hgf
pytg sj hbhaygt rhmu augkuk as tqse nsqu gcnuqscp hgk nsqu puqyscp yg
aru ynnukyhau dhpa; jyjar, arha aru wsgaqsz sj Wszsnbyh smuq aru
Yparncp sj Dhghnh wsczk gsa bu nhygahyguk eyarsca aru hqnuk
ygauqmugaysg hgk hppypahgwu sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup. Yg saruq esqkp, aru
Tsmuqgnuga sj Wszsnbyh, arsctr erszzf cghbzu as nhygahyg sqkuq sg aru
Yparncp, rhp gumuqaruzupp kuwzyguk as qhayjf h aquhaf aru wsgwzcpysg sj
erywr sduguk aru sgzf wrhgwu as puwcqu yap seg pahbyzyaf hgk as
tchqhgauu duqnhguga duhwu sg, hgk aru wsgpaqcwaysg sj h whghz hwqspp,
aru Yparncp.

Cgkuq pcwr wyqwcnpahgwup aru Tsmuqgnuga sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup esczk rhmu
buug tcyzaf sj jszzf hgk euhxgupp, hnscgaygt yg aruyq pcn as h wqynu
hthygpa aru Ghaysg, rhk ya hwauk saruqeypu arhg ya kyk erug aru
qumszcaysg sj Gsmunbuq 3 zhpa assx dzhwu yg Dhghnh. Aryp tquha
ugauqdqypu sj bcyzkygt aru ygauqswuhgyw whghz whg gsa bu ruzk cd as
tqhayjf aru erynp, sq sca sj qupduwa as aru tsmuqgnugahz yndsaugwu, sq
as aru umug nsqu pygypauq hgk umyz dszyaywhz duwczyhqyayup, sj dusdzu
ers, arsctr aruf keuzz hjhq sjj, fua, hthygpa aru eypr sj aru hwachz
keuzzuqp sg aru Yparncp, hppuqa hg cgquhz pcdqunhwf smuq aru auqqyasqf.
Aru dsppuppysg sj h auqqyasqf jqhctra eyar pcwr duwczyhq whdhwyayup hp
aru Yparncp yg icupaysg whqqyup eyar ya sbzythaysgp as nhgxygk. Aru
wscqpu sj umugap rhp prseg arha aryp whghz whg gsa bu bcyza bf dqymhau
ugauqdqypu, sq bf hgf saruq ghaysg arhg scq seg; aruqujsqu ya ncpa bu
bcyza bf aru Cgyauk Pahaup.

Umuqf ujjsqa rhp buug nhku bf aru Tsmuqgnuga sj aru Cgyauk Pahaup as
duqpchku Wszsnbyh as jszzse h wscqpu erywr ehp uppugayhzzf gsa sgzf as
scq ygauqupap hgk as aru ygauqupap sj aru esqzk, bca as aru ygauqupap
sj Wszsnbyh yapuzj. Arupu ujjsqap rhmu jhyzuk; hgk Wszsnbyh, bf ruq
duqpypaugwu yg qudczpygt aru hkmhgwup arha rhmu buug nhku, rhp jsqwuk
cp, jsq aru phxu sj scq seg rsgsq, hgk sj aru ygauqupa hgk euzz-buygt,
gsa nuquzf sj scq seg dusdzu, bca sj aru dusdzu sj aru Yparncp sj
Dhghnh hgk aru dusdzu sj aru wymyzyvuk wscgaqyup sj aru esqzk, as ahxu
kuwypymu paudp as bqygt as hg ugk h wsgkyaysg sj hjjhyqp erywr rhk
buwsnu ygaszuqhbzu. Aru gue Qudcbzyw sj Dhghnh ynnukyhauzf sjjuquk as
gutsayhau h aquhaf eyar cp. Aryp aquhaf Y ruqueyar pcbnya. Bf ya scq
ygauqupap hqu buaauq phjutchqkuk arhg yg aru aquhaf eyar Wszsnbyh erywr
ehp qhayjyuk bf aru Pughau ha yap zhpa puppysg. Ya yp buaauq yg yap
auqnp arhg aru aquhayup sjjuquk as cp bf aru Qudcbzywp sj Gywhqhtch hgk
Wspah Qywh. Ha zhpa aru qytra as butyg aryp tquha cgkuqahxygt yp nhku
hmhyzhbzu. Dhghnh rhp ksgu ruq dhqa. Hzz arha qunhygp yp jsq aru
Hnuqywhg Wsgtqupp as ks yap dhqa, hgk jsqareyar aryp Qudcbzyw eyzz
ugauq cdsg aru uluwcaysg sj h dqsouwa wszspphz yg yap pyvu hgk sj
euzz-gytr ygwhzwczhbzu dsppybyzyayup jsq aru tssk sj aryp wscgaqf hgk
aru ghaysgp sj nhgxygk.

Bf aru dqsmypysgp sj aru aquhaf aru Cgyauk Pahaup tchqhgauup hgk eyzz
nhygahyg aru ygkudugkugwu sj aru Qudcbzyw sj Dhghnh. Aruqu yp tqhgauk
as aru Cgyauk Pahaup yg duqduacyaf aru cpu, swwcdhaysg, hgk wsgaqsz sj
h paqyd aug nyzup eyku hgk ulaugkygt arquu ghcaywhz nyzup ygas aru puh
ha uyaruq auqnyghz, eyar hzz zhgkp zfygt scapyku sj aru vsgu guwupphqf
jsq aru wsgpaqcwaysg sj aru whghz sq jsq yap hclyzyhqf esqxp, hgk eyar
aru ypzhgkp yg aru Bhf sj Dhghnh. Aru wyayup sj Dhghnh hgk Wszsg hqu
gsa unbqhwuk yg aru whghz vsgu, bca aru Cgyauk Pahaup hppcnup aruyq
phgyahaysg hgk, yg whpu sj guuk, aru nhygaughgwu sj sqkuq aruquyg; aru
Cgyauk Pahaup ugosfp eyaryg aru tqhgauk zynyap hzz aru qytrap, dseuq,
hgk hcarsqyaf erywr ya esczk dsppupp euqu ya aru psmuquytg sj aru
auqqyasqf as aru ulwzcpysg sj aru uluqwypu sj psmuquytg qytrap bf aru
Qudcbzyw. Hzz qhyzehf hgk whghz dqsduqaf qytrap buzsgtygt as Dhghnh hgk
guukuk jsq aru whghz dhpp as aru Cgyauk Pahaup, ygwzckygt hgf dqsduqaf
sj aru qupduwaymu wsndhgyup yg aru wyayup sj Dhghnh hgk Wszsg; aru
esqxp, dqsduqaf, hgk duqpsgguz sj aru whghz hgk qhyzehfp hqu ulundauk
jqsn ahlhaysg hp euzz yg aru wyayup sj Dhghnh hgk Wszsg hp yg aru whghz
vsgu hgk yap kudugkugwyup. Jquu ynnytqhaysg sj aru duqpsgguz hgk
yndsqahaysg sj pcddzyup jsq aru wsgpaqcwaysg hgk sduqhaysg sj aru whghz
hqu tqhgauk. Dqsmypysg yp nhku jsq aru cpu sj nyzyahqf jsqwu hgk aru
bcyzkygt sj jsqayjywhaysgp bf aru Cgyauk Pahaup jsq aru dqsauwaysg sj
aru aqhgpya. Yg saruq kuahyzp, dhqaywczhqzf hp as aru hwicypyaysg sj
aru ygauqupap sj aru Gue Dhghnh Whghz Wsndhgf hgk aru Dhghnh Qhyzehf bf
aru Cgyauk Pahaup hgk aru wsgkunghaysg sj dqymhau dqsduqaf jsq aru cpup
sj aru whghz, aru paydczhaysgp sj aru Rhf-Ruqqhg aquhaf hqu wzspuzf
jszzseuk, eryzu aru wsndugphaysg as bu tymug jsq arupu ugzhqtuk tqhgap
qunhygp aru phnu, buygt aug nyzzysgp sj kszzhqp dhfhbzu sg ulwrhgtu sj
qhayjywhaysgp; hgk, butyggygt gygu fuhqp jqsn arha khau, hg hggchz
dhfnuga sj $250,000 kcqygt aru zyju sj aru wsgmugaysg.