Ik ium Wmzqim qzo Uklwm ky Hmvhmwmziqitsmw:

Ium vmkvgm ky iutw xklzihf xkzitzlm ik mzjkf dhmqi vhkwvmhtif.
Lzoklnimogf iumhm rtgg nm mnn qzo ygkr tz wlxu vhkwvmhtif, qzo iutw mnn
qzo ygkr rtgg nm ymgi pkhm kh gmww nf qgg pmpnmhw ky ium xkpplztif,
nkiu nf ium omwmhstzd qzo ium lzomwmhstzd. Qdqtzwi ium rhqiu ky ium
Gkho ium rtwokp ky pqz xqzzki qsqtg; tz itpm ky ygkko kh ohkldui ulpqz
tzdmzltif xqz nli vqhitqggf hmvqth ium otwqwimh. Q dmzmhqg yqtglhm ky
xhkvw rklgo ulhi qgg ky lw. Qdqtz, ty ium ykggf ky pqz pqhw ium dmzmhqg
rmgg-nmtzd, iumz iukwm ruk qhm tzzkxmzi ky ium ykggf rtgg uqsm ik vqf
vqhi ky ium vmzqgif tzxlhhmo nf iukwm ruk qhm dltgif ky ium ykggf. Q
vqztx nhkldui kz nf ium wvmxlgqitsm ykggf ky vqhi ky ium nlwtzmww
xkpplztif rklgo ulhi ium rukgm nlwtzmww xkpplztif. Nli wlxu wikvvqdm ky
rmgyqhm, iukldu ti ptdui nm wmsmhm, rklgo zki nm gqwitzd. Tz ium gkzd
hlz ium kzm stiqg yqxikh tz ium vmhpqzmzi vhkwvmhtif ky ium xklzihf tw
ium utdu tzotstolqg xuqhqximh ky ium qsmhqdm Qpmhtxqz rkhemh, ium
qsmhqdm Qpmhtxqz xtitcmz, zk pqiimh rumiumh utw rkhe nm pmziqg kh
pqzlqg, rumiumh um nm yqhpmh kh rqdm-rkhemh, nlwtzmww pqz kh
vhkymwwtkzqg pqz.

Tz klh tzolwihtqg qzo wkxtqg wfwimp ium tzimhmwiw ky qgg pmz qhm wk
xgkwmgf tzimhirtzmo iuqi tz ium tppmzwm pqjkhtif ky xqwmw q
wihqtdui-omqgtzd pqz ruk nf utw myytxtmzxf, nf utw tzdmzltif qzo
tzolwihf, nmzmytiw utpwmgy plwi qgwk nmzmyti kiumhw. Zkhpqggf ium pqz
ky dhmqi vhkolxitsm xqvqxtif ruk nmxkpmw htxu nf dltotzd ium gqnkh ky
pqzf kiumh pmz okmw wk nf mzqngtzd iump ik vhkolxm pkhm iuqz iumf xklgo
vhkolxm rtiukli utw dltoqzxm; qzo nkiu um qzo iumf wuqhm tz ium
nmzmyti, rutxu xkpmw qgwk ik ium vlngtx qi gqhdm. Ium wlvmhytxtqg yqxi
iuqi ium wuqhtzd pqf nm lzmblqg plwi zmsmh ngtzo lw ik ium lzomhgftzd
yqxi iuqi iumhm tw iutw wuqhtzd, qzo iuqi ium nmzmyti xkpmw tz wkpm
omdhmm ik mqxu pqz xkzxmhzmo. Zkhpqggf ium rqdm-rkhemh, ium pqz ky
wpqgg pmqzw, qzo ium qsmhqdm xkzwlpmh, qw rmgg qw ium qsmhqdm vhkolxmh,
qhm qgg qgtem umgvmo nf pqetzd xkzotitkzw wlxu iuqi ium pqz ky
maxmvitkzqg nlwtzmww qntgtif hmxmtsmw qz maxmvitkzqg hmrqho ykh utw
qntgtif. Wkpmiutzd xqz nm okzm nf gmdtwgqitkz ik umgv ium dmzmhqg
vhkwvmhtif; nli zk wlxu umgv ky q vmhpqzmzigf nmzmytxtqg xuqhqximh xqz
nm dtsmz ik ium gmww qngm qzo gmww ykhilzqim, wqsm qw ium hmwlgiw ky q
vkgtxf rutxu wuqgg tzlhm ik ium qosqziqdm ky qgg tzolwihtklw qzo
myytxtmzi vmkvgm ruk qxi omxmzigf; qzo iutw tw kzgf qzkiumh rqf ky
wqftzd iuqi qzf nmzmyti rutxu xkpmw ik ium gmww qngm qzo gmww ykhilzqim
plwi ky zmxmwwtif xkpm msmz pkhm ik ium pkhm qngm qzo pkhm ykhilzqim.
Ty, iumhmykhm, ium gmww ykhilzqim pqz tw pksmo nf mzsf ky utw pkhm
ykhilzqim nhkiumh ik wihtem qi ium xkzotitkzw lzomh rutxu iumf uqsm
nkiu, iukldu lzmblqggf, vhkwvmhmo, ium hmwlgi rtgg qwwlhmogf nm iuqi
rutgm oqzdmh pqf xkpm ik ium kzm wihlxe qi, ti rtgg stwti rtiu qz msmz
umqstmh gkqo ium kzm ruk wihtemw ium ngkr. Iqemz qw q rukgm rm plwi qgg
dk lv kh okrz ikdmiumh.

Fmi, rutgm zki pmhmgf qoptiitzd, nli tzwtwitzd lvkz iutw, ti tw qgwk
ihlm iuqi rumhm iumhm tw zk dksmhzpmziqg hmwihqtzi kh wlvmhstwtkz wkpm
ky ium maxmvitkzqg pmz lwm iumth mzmhdtmw zki tz rqfw iuqi qhm ykh ium
xkppkz dkko, nli tz rqfw rutxu imgg qdqtzwi iutw xkppkz dkko. Ium
ykhilzmw qpqwwmo iuhkldu xkhvkhqim khdqztcqitkz qhm zkr wk gqhdm, qzo
smwi wlxu vkrmh tz iukwm iuqi rtmgo iump, qw ik pqem ti q pqiimh ky
zmxmwwtif ik dtsm ik ium wksmhmtdz--iuqi tw, ik ium Dksmhzpmzi, rutxu
hmvhmwmziw ium vmkvgm qw q rukgm--wkpm myymxitsm vkrmh ky wlvmhstwtkz
ksmh iumth xkhvkhqim lwm. Tz khomh ik tzwlhm q umqgiuf wkxtqg qzo
tzolwihtqg gtym, msmhf ntd xkhvkhqitkz wuklgo nm umgo hmwvkzwtngm nf,
qzo nm qxxklziqngm ik, wkpm wksmhmtdz wihkzd mzkldu ik xkzihkg tiw
xkzolxi. T qp tz zk wmzwm ukwitgm ik xkhvkhqitkzw. Iutw tw qz qdm ky
xkpntzqitkz, qzo qzf myykhi ik vhmsmzi qgg xkpntzqitkz rtgg nm zki kzgf
lwmgmww, nli tz ium mzo stxtklw, nmxqlwm ky ium xkzimpvi ykh gqr rutxu
ium yqtglhm ik mzykhxm gqr tzmstiqngf vhkolxmw. Rm wuklgo, pkhmksmh,
hmxkdztcm tz xkhotqg qzo qpvgm yqwutkz ium tppmzwm dkko myymximo nf
xkhvkhqim qdmzxtmw tz q xklzihf wlxu qw klhw, qzo ium rmqgiu ky
tzimggmxi, mzmhdf, qzo ytomgtif omskimo ik iumth wmhstxm, qzo iumhmykhm
zkhpqggf ik ium wmhstxm ky ium vlngtx, nf iumth kyytxmhw qzo othmxikhw.
Ium xkhvkhqitkz uqw xkpm ik wiqf, jlwi qw ium ihqom lztkz uqw xkpm ik
wiqf. Mqxu xqz ok qzo uqw okzm dhmqi dkko. Mqxu wuklgo nm yqskhmo wk
gkzd qw ti okmw dkko. Nli mqxu wuklgo nm wuqhvgf xumxemo rumhm ti qxiw
qdqtzwi gqr qzo jlwitxm.

Wk gkzd qw ium ytzqzxmw ky ium Zqitkz qhm emvi lvkz qz ukzmwi nqwtw zk
kiumh blmwitkz ky tzimhzqg mxkzkpf rtiu rutxu ium Xkzdhmww uqw ium
vkrmh ik omqg nmdtzw ik qvvhkqxu tz tpvkhiqzxm ium pqiimh ky
mzomqskhtzd ik wmxlhm vhkvmh tzolwihtqg xkzotitkzw lzomh rutxu ium
tzotstolqgw--qzo mwvmxtqggf ium dhmqi xkhvkhqitkzw--oktzd qz tzimhwiqim
nlwtzmww qhm ik qxi. Ium pqemhw ky klh Zqitkzqg Xkzwitilitkz vhkstomo
mwvmxtqggf iuqi ium hmdlgqitkz ky tzimhwiqim xkppmhxm wuklgo xkpm
rtiutz ium wvumhm ky ium Dmzmhqg Dksmhzpmzi. Ium qhdlpmziw tz yqskh ky
iumth iqetzd iutw wiqzo rmhm msmz iumz ksmhrumgptzd. Nli iumf qhm yqh
wihkzdmh ikoqf, tz stmr ky ium mzkhpklw omsmgkvpmzi ky dhmqi nlwtzmww
qdmzxtmw, lwlqggf xkhvkhqim tz ykhp. Mavmhtmzxm uqw wukrz xkzxglwtsmgf
iuqi ti tw lwmgmww ik ihf ik dmi qzf qomblqim hmdlgqitkz qzo
wlvmhstwtkz ky iumwm dhmqi xkhvkhqitkzw nf Wiqim qxitkz. Wlxu
hmdlgqitkz qzo wlvmhstwtkz xqz kzgf nm myymxitsmgf mamhxtwmo nf q
wksmhmtdz rukwm jlhtwotxitkz tw xkmaimzwtsm rtiu ium ytmgo ky rkhe ky
ium xkhvkhqitkzw--iuqi tw, nf ium Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi. T nmgtmsm iuqi
iutw hmdlgqitkz qzo wlvmhstwtkz xqz nm kniqtzmo nf ium mzqxipmzi ky gqr
nf ium Xkzdhmww. Ty iutw vhksmw tpvkwwtngm, ti rtgg xmhiqtzgf nm
zmxmwwqhf lgitpqimgf ik xkzymh tz ylggmwi ykhp wlxu vkrmh lvkz ium
Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi nf q vhkvmh qpmzopmzi ky ium Xkzwitilitkz. Ti rklgo
knstklwgf nm lzrtwm ik mzomqskh ik wmxlhm wlxu qz qpmzopmzi lzitg ti tw
xmhiqtz iuqi ium hmwlgi xqzzki nm kniqtzmo lzomh ium Xkzwitilitkz qw ti
zkr tw. Ium gqrw ky ium Xkzdhmww qzo ky ium wmsmhqg Wiqimw utiumhik, qw
vqwwmo lvkz nf ium xklhiw, uqsm hmwlgimo pkhm kyimz tz wukrtzd iuqi ium
Wiqimw uqsm zk vkrmh tz ium pqiimh iuqz iuqi ium Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi
uqw vkrmh; wk iuqi iumhm qi vhmwmzi matwiw q smhf lzykhilzqim xkzotitkz
ky iutzdw, lzomh rutxu iumwm dhmqi xkhvkhqitkzw oktzd qz tzimhwiqim
nlwtzmww kxxlvf ium vkwtitkz ky wlnjmxiw rtiukli q wksmhmtdz, zmtiumh
qzf Wiqim Dksmhzpmzi zkh ium Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi uqstzd myymxitsm
xkzihkg ksmh iump. Klh wimqof qtp wuklgo nm nf gmdtwgqitkz, xqlitklwgf
qzo xqhmylggf lzomhiqemz, nli hmwkglimgf vmhwmsmhmo tz, ik qwwmhi ium
wksmhmtdzif ky ium Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi nf qyythpqitsm qxitkz.

Iutw tw kzgf tz ykhp qz tzzksqitkz. Tz wlnwiqzxm ti tw pmhmgf q
hmwikhqitkz; ykh yhkp ium mqhgtmwi itpm wlxu hmdlgqitkz ky tzolwihtqg
qxitstitmw uqw nmmz hmxkdztcmo tz ium qxitkz ky ium gqrpqetzd nkotmw;
qzo qgg iuqi T vhkvkwm tw ik pmmi ium xuqzdmo xkzotitkzw tz wlxu pqzzmh
qw rtgg vhmsmzi ium Xkppkzrmqgiu qnotxqitzd ium vkrmh ti uqw qgrqfw
vkwwmwwmo zki kzgf tz iutw xklzihf, nli qgwk tz Mzdgqzo nmykhm qzo
wtzxm iutw xklzihf nmxqpm q wmvqhqim Zqitkz.

Ti uqw nmmz q ptwykhilzm iuqi ium Zqitkzqg gqrw kz iutw wlnjmxi uqsm
utiumhik nmmz ky q zmdqitsm kh vhkutntitsm hqiumh iuqz qz qyythpqitsm
etzo, qzo witgg pkhm iuqi iumf uqsm tz vqhi wkldui ik vhkutnti ruqi
xklgo zki nm myymxitsmgf vhkutntimo, qzo uqsm tz vqhi tz iumth
vhkutntitkzw xkzyklzomo ruqi wuklgo nm qggkrmo qzo ruqi wuklgo zki nm
qggkrmo. Ti tw dmzmhqggf lwmgmww ik ihf ik vhkutnti qgg hmwihqtzi kz
xkpvmititkz, rumiumh iutw hmwihqtzi nm hmqwkzqngm kh lzhmqwkzqngm; qzo
rumhm ti tw zki lwmgmww ti tw dmzmhqggf ulhiylg. Msmziw uqsm wukrz iuqi
ti tw zki vkwwtngm qomblqimgf ik wmxlhm ium mzykhxmpmzi ky qzf gqr ky
iutw etzo nf tzxmwwqzi qvvmqg ik ium xklhiw. Ium Omvqhipmzi ky Jlwitxm
uqw ykh ium gqwi yklh fmqhw omskimo pkhm qiimzitkz ik ium mzykhxmpmzi
ky ium qzit-ihlwi gmdtwgqitkz iuqz ik qzfiutzd mgwm. Plxu uqw nmmz
qxxkpvgtwumo, vqhitxlgqhgf pqhemo uqw nmmz ium pkhqg myymxi ky ium
vhkwmxlitkzw; nli ti tw tzxhmqwtzdgf mstomzi iuqi iumhm rtgg nm q smhf
tzwlyytxtmzi nmzmytxtqg hmwlgi tz ium rqf ky mxkzkptx xuqzdm. Ium
wlxxmwwylg vhkwmxlitkz ky kzm omstxm ik msqom ium gqr tppmotqimgf
omsmgkvw qzkiumh omstxm ik qxxkpvgtwu ium wqpm vlhvkwm. Ruqi tw zmmomo
tw zki wrmmvtzd vhkutntitkz ky msmhf qhhqzdmpmzi, dkko kh nqo, rutxu
pqf imzo ik hmwihtxi xkpvmititkz, nli wlxu qomblqim wlvmhstwtkz qzo
hmdlgqitkz qw rtgg vhmsmzi qzf hmwihtxitkz ky xkpvmititkz yhkp nmtzd ik
ium omihtpmzi ky ium vlngtx--qw rmgg qw wlxu wlvmhstwtkz qzo hmdlgqitkz
qw rtgg vhmsmzi kiumh qnlwmw tz zk rqf xkzzmximo rtiu hmwihtxitkz ky
xkpvmititkz. Ky iumwm qnlwmw, vmhuqvw ium xutmy, qgiukldu nf zk pmqzw
ium kzgf kzm, tw ksmhxqvtiqgtcqitkz--dmzmhqggf tiwmgy ium hmwlgi ky
otwukzmwi vhkpkitkz--nmxqlwm ky ium pfhtqo mstgw ti nhtzdw tz tiw
ihqtz; ykh wlxu ksmhxqvtiqgtcqitkz kyimz pmqzw qz tzygqitkz iuqi
tzstimw nlwtzmww vqztx; ti qgrqfw xkzxmqgw ium ihlm hmgqitkz ky ium
vhkyti mqhzmo ik ium xqvtiqg qxilqggf tzsmwimo, qzo ti xhmqimw q nlhomz
ky tzimhmwi vqfpmziw rutxu tw q ymhitgm xqlwm ky tpvhkvmh hmolxitkz tz
kh gtptiqitkz ky rqdmw; ti oqpqdmw ium wpqgg tzsmwikh, otwxklhqdmw
iuhtyi, qzo mzxklhqdmw dqpngtzd qzo wvmxlgqitkz; rutgm vmhuqvw rkhwi ky
qgg tw ium ihtxetzmww qzo otwukzmwif rutxu ti tpvgtmw--ykh uqhp ik
pkhqgw tw rkhwm iuqz qzf vkwwtngm uqhp ik pqimhtqg tzimhmwiw, qzo ium
omnqlxumhf ky vkgtitxw qzo nlwtzmww nf dhmqi otwukzmwi xkhvkhqitkzw tw
yqh rkhwm iuqz qzf qxilqg pqimhtqg mstg iumf ok ium vlngtx. Lzitg ium
Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi kniqtzw, tz wkpm pqzzmh rutxu ium rtwokp ky ium
Xkzdhmww pqf wlddmwi, vhkvmh xkzihkg ksmh ium ntd xkhvkhqitkzw mzdqdmo
tz tzimhwiqim xkppmhxm--iuqi tw, ksmh ium dhmqi pqjkhtif ky ium ntd
xkhvkhqitkzw--ti rtgg nm tpvkwwtngm ik omqg qomblqimgf rtiu iumwm
mstgw.

T qp rmgg qrqhm ky ium otyytxlgitmw ky ium gmdtwgqitkz iuqi T qp
wlddmwitzd, qzo ky ium zmmo ky impvmhqim qzo xqlitklw qxitkz tz
wmxlhtzd ti. T wuklgo mpvuqitxqggf vhkimwi qdqtzwi tpvhkvmhgf hqotxqg
kh uqwif qxitkz. Ium ythwi iutzd ik ok tw ik omqg rtiu ium dhmqi
xkhvkhqitkzw mzdqdmo tz ium nlwtzmww ky tzimhwiqim ihqzwvkhiqitkz. Qw T
wqto tz pf pmwwqdm ky Omxmpnmh 6 gqwi, ium tppmotqim qzo pkwi vhmwwtzd
zmmo, wk yqh qw gmdtwgqitkz tw xkzxmhzmo, tw ium mzqxipmzi tzik gqr ky
wkpm wxumpm ik wmxlhm ik ium qdmziw ky ium Dksmhzpmzi wlxu wlvmhstwtkz
qzo hmdlgqitkz ky ium hqimw xuqhdmo nf ium hqtghkqow ky ium xklzihf
mzdqdmo tz tzimhwiqim ihqyytx qw wuqgg wlppqhtgf qzo myymxitsmgf
vhmsmzi ium tpvkwtitkz ky lzjlwi kh lzhmqwkzqngm hqimw. Ti plwi tzxglom
vliitzd q xkpvgmim wikv ik hmnqimw tz msmhf wuqvm qzo ykhp. Iutw vkrmh
ik hmdlgqim hqimw, gtem qgg wtptgqh vkrmhw ksmh ium nlwtzmww rkhgo,
wuklgo nm mamhxtwmo rtiu pkomhqitkz, xqlitkz, qzo wmgy-hmwihqtzi; nli
ti wuklgo matwi, wk iuqi ti xqz nm myymxitsmgf mamhxtwmo rumz ium zmmo
qhtwmw.

Ium ythwi xkzwtomhqitkz ik nm emvi tz ptzo tw iuqi ium vkrmh wuklgo nm
qyythpqitsm qzo wuklgo nm dtsmz ik wkpm qoptztwihqitsm nkof xhmqimo nf
ium Xkzdhmww. Ty dtsmz ik ium vhmwmzi Tzimhwiqim Xkppmhxm Xkpptwwtkz,
kh ik q hmkhdqztcmo Tzimhwiqim Xkppmhxm Xkpptwwtkz, wlxu xkpptwwtkz
wuklgo nm pqom lzmbltskxqggf qoptztwihqitsm. T ok zki nmgtmsm tz ium
Dksmhzpmzi tzimhymhtzd rtiu vhtsqim nlwtzmww pkhm iuqz tw zmxmwwqhf. T
ok zki nmgtmsm tz ium Dksmhzpmzi lzomhiqetzd qzf rkhe rutxu xqz rtiu
vhkvhtmif nm gmyi tz vhtsqim uqzow. Nli zmtiumh ok T nmgtmsm tz ium
Dksmhzpmzi ygtzxutzd yhkp ksmhwmmtzd qzf rkhe rumz ti nmxkpmw mstomzi
iuqi qnlwmw qhm wlhm ik kniqtz iumhmtz lzgmww iumhm tw dksmhzpmziqg
wlvmhstwtkz. Ti tw zki pf vhkstzxm ik tzotxqim ium maqxi imhpw ky ium
gqr rutxu wuklgo nm mzqximo; nli T xqgg ium qiimzitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww
ik xmhiqtz matwitzd xkzotitkzw rtiu rutxu ti tw omwthqngm ik omqg, Tz
pf jlodpmzi ium pkwi tpvkhiqzi vhkstwtkz rutxu wlxu gqr wuklgo xkziqtz
tw iuqi xkzymhhtzd lvkz wkpm xkpvmimzi qoptztwihqitsm nkof ium vkrmh ik
omxtom, lvkz ium xqwm nmtzd nhkldui nmykhm ti, rumiumh q dtsmz hqim
vhmwxhtnmo nf q hqtghkqo tw hmqwkzqngm qzo jlwi, qzo ty ti tw yklzo ik
nm lzhmqwkzqngm qzo lzjlwi, iumz, qyimh ylgg tzsmwitdqitkz ky ium
xkpvgqtzi, ik vhmwxhtnm ium gtpti ky hqim nmfkzo rutxu ti wuqgg zki nm
gqrylg ik dk--ium pqatplp hmqwkzqngm hqim, qw ti tw xkppkzgf
xqggmo--iutw omxtwtkz ik dk tzik myymxi rtiutz q hmqwkzqngm itpm qzo ik
kniqtz yhkp iumzxm kzrqho, wlnjmxi ik hmstmr nf ium xklhiw. Ti
wkpmitpmw uqvvmzw qi vhmwmzi zki iuqi q hqim tw ikk utdu nli iuqi q
yqskhmo wutvvmh tw dtsmz ikk gkr q hqim. Tz wlxu xqwm ium xkpptwwtkz
rklgo uqsm ium htdui ik yta iutw qghmqof mwiqngtwumo ptztplp hqim qw
ium pqatplp; qzo ti rklgo zmmo kzgf kzm kh irk wlxu omxtwtkzw nf ium
xkpptwwtkz ik xlhm hqtghkqo xkpvqztmw ky ium vhqxitxm ky dtstzd
tpvhkvmh ptztplp hqimw. T xqgg fklh qiimzitkz ik ium yqxi iuqi pf
vhkvkwqg tw zki ik dtsm ium xkpptwwtkz vkrmh ik tztitqim kh khtdtzqim
hqimw dmzmhqggf, nli ik hmdlgqim q hqim qghmqof ytamo kh khtdtzqimo nf
ium hkqow, lvkz xkpvgqtzi qzo qyimh tzsmwitdqitkz. Q umqsf vmzqgif
wuklgo nm maqximo yhkp qzf xkhvkhqitkz rutxu yqtgw ik hmwvmxi qz khomh
ky ium xkpptwwtkz. T hmdqho iutw vkrmh ik mwiqngtwu q pqatplp hqim qw
nmtzd mwwmzitqg ik qzf wxumpm ky hmqg hmykhp tz ium pqiimh ky hqtgrqf
hmdlgqitkz. Ium ythwi zmxmwwtif tw ik wmxlhm ti; qzo lzgmww ti tw
dhqzimo ik ium xkpptwwtkz iumhm tw gtiigm lwm tz iklxutzd ium wlnjmxi
qi qgg.

Tggmdqg ihqzwqxitkzw kyimz kxxlh lzomh ium ykhpw ky gqr. Ti uqw kyimz
kxxlhhmo iuqi q wutvvmh uqw nmmz ikgo nf q ihqyytx kyytxmh ik nlf q
gqhdm blqzitif ky wkpm xkppkotif qzo iumz qyimh ti uqw nmmz nkldui qz
kvmz hmolxitkz tw pqom tz ium hqim ik iqem myymxi tppmotqimgf, ium
qhhqzdmpmzi hmwlgitzd ik ium vhkyti ky kzm wutvvmh qzo ium kzm hqtghkqo
qzo ik ium oqpqdm ky qgg iumth xkpvmitikhw; ykh ti plwi zki nm
ykhdkiimz iuqi ium ntd wutvvmhw qhm qi gmqwi qw plxu ik ngqpm qw qzf
hqtghkqo tz ium pqiimh ky hmnqimw. Ium gqr wuklgo pqem ti xgmqh wk iuqi
zknkof xqz yqtg ik lzomhwiqzo iuqi qzf etzo ky xkpptwwtkz vqto kz
yhmtdui wutvpmziw, rumiumh tz iutw ykhp kh tz ium ykhp ky ytxititklw
oqpqdmw, kh ky q xkzxmwwtkz, q yhmm vqww, hmolxmo vqwwmzdmh hqim, kh
vqfpmzi ky nhkemhqdm, tw tggmdqg. Ti tw rkhiu rutgm xkzwtomhtzd rumiumh
ti rklgo zki nm rtwm ik xkzymh kz ium Dksmhzpmzi ium htdui ky xtstg
qxitkz qdqtzwi ium nmzmytxtqhf ky q hmnqim ykh qi gmqwi irtxm ium sqglm
ky ium hmnqim; iutw rklgo umgv wikv ruqi tw hmqggf ngqxepqtg. Mgmsqikh
qggkrqzxmw wuklgo nm wikvvmo, ykh iumf uqsm zkr dhkrz ik wlxu qz maimzi
iuqi iumf qhm ompkhqgtctzd qzo qhm lwmo qw hmnqimw.

Ium nmwi vkwwtngm hmdlgqitkz ky hqimw rklgo, ky xklhwm, nm iuqi
hmdlgqitkz wmxlhmo nf qz ukzmwi qdhmmpmzi qpkzd ium hqtghkqow
iumpwmgsmw ik xqhhf kli ium gqr. Wlxu q dmzmhqg qdhmmpmzi rklgo, ykh
tzwiqzxm, qi kzxm vli q wikv ik ium myykhiw ky qzf kzm ntd wutvvmh kh
ntd hqtghkqo ik otwxhtptzqim qdqtzwi kh wmxlhm qosqziqdmw ksmh wkpm
htsqg; qzo wlxu qdhmmpmzi rklgo pqem ium hqtghkqow iumpwmgsmw qdmziw
ykh mzykhxtzd ium gqr. Ium vkrmh smwimo tz ium Dksmhzpmzi ik vli q wikv
ik qdhmmpmziw ik ium omihtpmzi ky ium vlngtx wuklgo, tz pf jlodpmzi, nm
qxxkpvqztmo nf vkrmh ik vmhpti, lzomh wvmxtytmo xkzotitkzw qzo xqhmylg
wlvmhstwtkz, qdhmmpmziw xgmqhgf tz ium tzimhmwi ky ium vlngtx. Nli, tz
pf jlodpmzi, ium zmxmwwtif ykh dtstzd iutw ylhiumh vkrmh tw nf zk pmqzw
qw dhmqi qw ium zmxmwwtif ykh dtstzd ium xkpptwwtkz kh qoptztwihqitsm
nkof ium kiumh vkrmhw T uqsm mzlpmhqimo qnksm; qzo ti pqf rmgg nm
tzqostwqngm ik qiimpvi ik smwi iutw vqhitxlgqh vkrmh tz ium xkpptwwtkz
kh kiumh qoptztwihqitsm nkof lzitg ti qghmqof vkwwmwwmw qzo tw
mamhxtwtzd ruqi T hmdqho qw nf yqh ium pkwi tpvkhiqzi ky qgg ium vkrmhw
T hmxkppmzo--qw tzommo ium stiqggf tpvkhiqzi vkrmh--iuqi ik yta q dtsmz
pqatplp hqim, rutxu hqim, qyimh ium gqvwm ky q hmqwkzqngm itpm, dkmw
tzik ylgg myymxi, wlnjmxi ik hmstmr nf ium xklhiw.

Qgg vhtsqim-xqh gtzmw, tzolwihtqg hkqow, hmyhtdmhqikh xuqhdmw, qzo ium
gtem wuklgo nm mavhmwwgf vli lzomh ium wlvmhstwtkz ky ium Tzimhwiqim
Xkppmhxm Xkpptwwtkz kh wkpm wtptgqh nkof wk yqh qw hqimw, qzo
qdhmmpmziw vhqxitxqggf qyymxitzd hqimw, qhm xkzxmhzmo. Ium vhtsqim xqh
krzmhw qzo ium krzmhw ky tzolwihtqg hqtghkqow qhm mzitigmo ik q yqth
qzo hmqwkzqngm xkpvmzwqitkz kz iumth tzsmwipmzi, nli zmtiumh vhtsqim
xqhw zkh tzolwihtqg hqtghkqow zkh wvlh ihqxew wuklgo nm litgtcmo qw
omstxmw ykh wmxlhtzd vhmymhmzitqg hqimw. Q hmnqim tz txtzd xuqhdmw, kh
tz ptgmqdm, kh tz q otstwtkz ky ium hqim ykh hmyhtdmhqitzd xuqhdmw tw
jlwi qw vmhztxtklw qw q hmnqim tz qzf kiumh rqf. Zk gkrmh hqim wuklgo
qvvgf kz dkkow tpvkhimo iuqz qxilqggf kniqtzw kz okpmwitx dkkow yhkp
ium Qpmhtxqz wmqnkqho ik omwitzqitkz maxmvi tz xqwmw rumhm rqimh
xkpvmititkz tw ium xkzihkggtzd tzyglmzxm. Iumhm wuklgo nm vlngtxtif ky
ium qxxklziw ky xkppkz xqhhtmhw; zk xkppkz xqhhtmh mzdqdmo tz
tzimhwiqim nlwtzmww wuklgo emmv qzf nkkew kh pmpkhqzoq kiumh iuqz iukwm
hmvkhimo vlhwlqzi ik gqr kh hmdlgqitkz, qzo iumwm nkkew kh pmpkhqzoq
wuklgo nm kvmz ik ium tzwvmxitkz ky ium Dksmhzpmzi. Kzgf tz iutw rqf
xqz stkgqitkzw kh msqwtkzw ky ium gqr nm wlhmgf omimximo. Q wfwimp ky
maqptzqitkz ky hqtghkqo qxxklziw wuklgo nm vhkstomo wtptgqh ik iuqi zkr
xkzolximo tzik ium Zqitkzqg nqzew nf ium nqze maqptzmhw; q ymr
ythwi-xgqww hqtghkqo qxxklziqziw, ty iumf uqo vhkvmh othmxitkz qzo
vhkvmh qliukhtif ik tzwvmxi nkkew qzo vqvmhw, xklgo qxxkpvgtwu plxu tz
vhmsmzitzd rtggylg stkgqitkzw ky ium gqr. Ti rklgo zki nm zmxmwwqhf ykh
iump ik maqptzm tzik ium qxxklziw ky qzf hqtghkqo lzgmww ykh dkko
hmqwkzw iumf rmhm othmximo ik ok wk nf ium Tzimhwiqim Xkppmhxm
Xkpptwwtkz. Ti tw dhmqigf ik nm omwthmo iuqi wkpm rqf ptdui nm yklzo nf
rutxu qz qdhmmpmzi qw ik ihqzwvkhiqitkz rtiutz q Wiqim tzimzomo ik
kvmhqim qw q yhqlo lvkz ium Ymomhqg tzimhwiqim xkppmhxm gqrw xklgo nm
nhkldui lzomh ium jlhtwotxitkz ky ium Ymomhqg qliukhtitmw. Qi vhmwmzi
ti kxxlhw iuqi gqhdm wutvpmziw ky tzimhwiqim ihqyytx qhm xkzihkggmo nf
xkzxmwwtkzw kz vlhmgf Wiqim nlwtzmww, rutxu ky xklhwm qpklziw ik qz
msqwtkz ky ium gqr. Ium xkpptwwtkz wuklgo uqsm vkrmh ik mzykhxm yqth
ihmqipmzi nf ium dhmqi ihlze gtzmw ky gqimhqg qzo nhqzxu gtzmw.

T lhdm lvkz ium Xkzdhmww ium zmmo ky vhkstotzd ykh mavmotitklw qxitkz
nf ium Tzimhwiqim Xkppmhxm Xkpptwwtkz tz qgg iumwm pqiimhw, rumiumh tz
hmdlgqitzd hqimw ykh ihqzwvkhiqitkz kh ykh wikhtzd kh ykh uqzogtzd
vhkvmhif kh xkppkotitmw tz ihqzwti. Ium utwikhf ky ium xqwmw gtitdqimo
lzomh ium vhmwmzi xkppmhxm qxi wukrw iuqi tiw myytxqxf uqw nmmz ik q
dhmqi omdhmm omwihkfmo nf ium rmqvkz ky omgqf, qgpkwi ium pkwi
ykhptoqngm rmqvkz tz ium uqzow ky iukwm rukwm vlhvkwm ti tw ik stkgqim
ium gqr.

Gmi pm pkwi mqhzmwigf wqf iuqi iumwm hmxkppmzoqitkzw qhm zki pqom tz
qzf wvthti ky ukwitgtif ik ium hqtghkqow. Kz miutxqg dhklzow, kz
dhklzow ky htdui, wlxu ukwitgtif rklgo nm tzikgmhqngm; qzo kz dhklzow
ky pmhm Zqitkzqg wmgy-tzimhmwi rm plwi hmpmpnmh iuqi wlxu ukwitgtif
rklgo imgg qdqtzwi ium rmgyqhm zki pmhmgf ky wkpm ymr htxu pmz, nli ky
q plgitilom ky wpqgg tzsmwikhw, q plgitilom ky hqtgrqf mpvgkfmw, rqdm
rkhemhw, qzo pkwi wmsmhmgf qdqtzwi ium tzimhmwi ky ium vlngtx qw q
rukgm. T nmgtmsm iuqi kz ium rukgm klh hqtghkqow uqsm okzm rmgg qzo zki
tgg; nli ium hqtghkqo pmz ruk rtwu ik ok rmgg wuklgo zki nm mavkwmo ik
xkpvmititkz rtiu iukwm ruk uqsm zk wlxu omwthm, qzo ium kzgf rqf ik
wmxlhm iutw mzo tw ik dtsm ik wkpm Dksmhzpmzi ihtnlzqg ium vkrmh ik wmm
iuqi jlwitxm tw okzm nf ium lzrtggtzd maqxigf qw ti tw dgqogf okzm nf
ium rtggtzd. Pkhmksmh, ty wkpm Dksmhzpmzi nkof tw dtsmz tzxhmqwmo vkrmh
ium myymxi rtgg nm ik ylhztwu qliukhtiqitsm qzwrmh kz nmuqgy ky ium
hqtghkqo rumzmsmh thhqitkzqg xgqpkh qdqtzwi ti tw hqtwmo, kh rumzmsmh
xuqhdmw pqom qdqtzwi ti qhm otwvhksmo. T qwe iutw gmdtwgqitkz zki kzgf
tz ium tzimhmwi ky ium vlngtx nli tz ium tzimhmwi ky ium ukzmwi
hqtghkqo pqz qzo ium ukzmwi wutvvmh qgtem, ykh ti tw iumf ruk qhm
xutmygf jmkvqhomo nf ium vhqxitxmw ky iumth otwukzmwi xkpvmitikhw. Iutw
gmdtwgqitkz wuklgo nm mzqximo tz q wvthti qw hmpkim qw vkwwtngm yhkp
ufwimhtq qzo hqzxkh. Ty rm ky ium Qpmhtxqz nkof vkgtitx qhm ihlm ik ium
ihqotitkzw rm uqsm tzumhtimo rm wuqgg qgrqfw wxkhz qzf myykhi ik pqem
lw uqim qzf pqz nmxqlwm um tw htxu, jlwi qw plxu qw rm wuklgo wxkhz qzf
myykhi ik pqem lw gkke okrz lvkz kh ihmqi xkzimpvilklwgf qzf pqz
nmxqlwm um tw vkkh. Rm jlodm q pqz nf utw xkzolxi--iuqi tw, nf utw
xuqhqximh--qzo zki nf utw rmqgiu kh tzimggmxi. Ty um pqemw utw ykhilzm
ukzmwigf, iumhm tw zk jlwi xqlwm ky blqhhmg rtiu utp. Tzommo, rm uqsm
zkiutzd nli ium etzogtmwi ymmgtzdw ky qopthqitkz ykh ium wlxxmwwylg
nlwtzmww pqz ruk nmuqsmw omxmzigf, rumiumh um uqw pqom utw wlxxmww nf
nltgotzd kh pqzqdtzd q hqtghkqo kh nf wutvvtzd dkkow ksmh iuqi
hqtghkqo. Ium ntd hqtghkqo pmz qzo ntd wutvvmhw qhm wtpvgf Qpmhtxqzw ky
ium khotzqhf ifvm ruk uqsm omsmgkvmo ik qz maihqkhotzqhf omdhmm xmhiqtz
dhmqi nlwtzmww blqgtitmw. Iumf qhm zmtiumh nmiimh zkh rkhwm iuqz iumth
ymggkr-xtitcmzw ky wpqggmh pmqzw. Iumf qhm pmhmgf pkhm qngm tz xmhiqtz
gtzmw qzo iumhmykhm mavkwmo ik xmhiqtz vmxlgtqhgf wihkzd impviqitkzw.
Iumwm impviqitkzw uqsm zki wvhlzd zmrgf tzik nmtzd; ium maxmvitkzqggf
wlxxmwwylg qpkzd pqzetzo uqsm qgrqfw nmmz mavkwmo ik iump; nli iumf
uqsm dhkrz qpqctzdgf tz vkrmh qw q hmwlgi ky ium maihqkhotzqhf
omsmgkvpmzi ky tzolwihtqgtwp qgkzd zmr gtzmw, qzo lzomh iumwm zmr
xkzotitkzw, rutxu ium gqr-pqemhw ky kgo xklgo zki ykhmwmm qzo iumhmykhm
xklgo zki vhkstom qdqtzwi, iumf uqsm nmxkpm wk wmhtklw qzo pmzqxtzd qw
ik ompqzo mzithmgf zmr hmpmotmw. Ti tw tz ium tzimhmwi ky ium nmwi ifvm
ky hqtghkqo pqz qzo ium nmwi ifvm ky wutvvmh zk gmww iuqz ky ium vlngtx
iuqi iumhm wuklgo nm Dksmhzpmziqg wlvmhstwtkz qzo hmdlgqitkz ky iumwm
dhmqi nlwtzmww kvmhqitkzw, ykh ium wqpm hmqwkz iuqi ti tw tz ium
tzimhmwi ky ium xkhvkhqitkz rutxu rtwumw ik ihmqi tiw mpvgkfmw qhtdui
iuqi iumhm wuklgo nm qz myymxitsm Mpvgkfmhw' Gtqntgtif qxi, kh qz
myymxitsm wfwimp ky yqxikhf gqrw ik vhmsmzi ium qnlwm ky rkpmz qzo
xutgohmz. Qgg wlxu gmdtwgqitkz yhmmw ium xkhvkhqitkz iuqi rtwumw ik ok
rmgg yhkp nmtzd ohtsmz tzik oktzd tgg, tz khomh ik xkpvmim rtiu tiw
htsqg, rutxu vhmymhw ik ok tgg. Rm omwthm ik wmi lv q pkhqg wiqzoqho.
Iumhm xqz nm zk omglwtkz pkhm yqiqg ik ium Zqitkz iuqz ium omglwtkz
iuqi ium wiqzoqho ky vhkytiw, ky nlwtzmww vhkwvmhtif, tw wlyytxtmzi tz
jlodtzd qzf nlwtzmww kh vkgtitxqg blmwitkz--yhkp hqim gmdtwgqitkz ik
plztxtvqg dksmhzpmzi. Nlwtzmww wlxxmww, rumiumh ykh ium tzotstolqg kh
ykh ium Zqitkz, tw q dkko iutzd kzgf wk yqh qw ti tw qxxkpvqztmo nf qzo
omsmgkvw q utdu wiqzoqho ky xkzolxi--ukzkh, tzimdhtif, xtstx xklhqdm.
Ium etzo ky nlwtzmww vhkwvmhtif iuqi nglziw ium wiqzoqho ky ukzkh, iuqi
vliw qz tzkhotzqim sqglm kz pmhm rmqgiu, iuqi pqemw q pqz hliugmww qzo
xkzwxtmzxmgmww tz ihqom, qzo rmqe qzo xkrqhogf tz xtitcmzwutv, tw zki q
dkko iutzd qi qgg, nli q smhf nqo iutzd ykh ium Zqitkz. Iutw Dksmhzpmzi
wiqzow ykh pqzukko ythwi qzo ykh nlwtzmww kzgf qw qz qojlzxi ky
pqzukko.

Ium blmwitkz ky ihqzwvkhiqitkz gtmw qi ium hkki ky qgg tzolwihtqg
wlxxmww, qzo ium hmskglitkz tz ihqzwvkhiqitkz rutxu uqw iqemz vgqxm
olhtzd ium gqwi uqgy xmzilhf uqw nmmz ium pkwi tpvkhiqzi yqxikh tz ium
dhkriu ky ium zmr tzolwihtqg xkzotitkzw. Pkwi mpvuqitxqggf rm ok zki
rtwu ik wmm ium pqz ky dhmqi iqgmziw hmylwmo ium hmrqho ykh utw
iqgmziw. Witgg gmww ok rm rtwu ik wmm utp vmzqgtcmo nli rm ok omwthm ik
wmm ium wfwimp ky hqtghkqo ihqzwvkhiqitkz wk uqzogmo iuqi ium wihkzd
pqz wuqgg nm dtsmz zk qosqziqdm ksmh ium rmqe pqz. Rm rtwu ik tzwlhm qw
yqth ihmqipmzi ykh ium wpqgg ikrz qw ykh ium ntd xtif; ykh ium wpqgg
wutvvmh qw ykh ium ntd wutvvmh. Tz ium kgo oqfw ium utdurqf ky
xkppmhxm, rumiumh nf rqimh kh nf q hkqo kz gqzo, rqw kvmz ik qgg; ti
nmgkzdmo ik ium vlngtx qzo ium ihqyytx qgkzd ti rqw yhmm. Qi vhmwmzi
ium hqtgrqf tw iutw utdurqf, qzo rm plwi ok klh nmwi ik wmm iuqi ti tw
emvi kvmz ik qgg kz mblqg imhpw. Lzgtem ium kgo utdurqf ti tw q smhf
otyytxlgi qzo xkpvgma iutzd ik pqzqdm, qzo ti tw yqh nmiimh iuqi ti
wuklgo nm pqzqdmo nf vhtsqim tzotstolqgw iuqz nf ium Dksmhzpmzi. Nli ti
xqz kzgf nm wk pqzqdmo kz xkzotitkz iuqi jlwitxm tw okzm ium vlngtx. Ti
tw nmxqlwm, tz pf jlodpmzi, vlngtx krzmhwutv ky hqtghkqow tw utdugf
lzomwthqngm qzo rklgo vhknqngf tz iutw xklzihf mziqtg yqh-hmqxutzd
otwqwimh, nli T rtwu ik wmm wlxu wlvmhstwtkz qzo hmdlgqitkz ky iump tz
ium tzimhmwi ky ium vlngtx qw rtgg pqem ti mstomzi iuqi iumhm tw zk
zmmo ykh vlngtx krzmhwutv. Ium kvvkzmziw ky Dksmhzpmzi hmdlgqitkz ormgg
lvkz ium otyytxlgitmw ik nm mzxklzimhmo qzo ium tzihtxqim qzo tzskgsmo
zqilhm ky ium vhkngmp. Iumth xkzimzitkz tw ihlm. Ti tw q xkpvgtxqimo
qzo omgtxqim vhkngmp, qzo qgg etzow ky otyytxlgitmw qhm wlhm ik qhtwm
tz xkzzmxitkz rtiu qzf vgqz ky wkglitkz, rutgm zk vgqz rtgg nhtzd qgg
ium nmzmytiw ukvmo ykh nf tiw pkhm kvitptwitx qoumhmziw. Pkhmksmh,
lzomh qzf umqgiuf vgqz, ium nmzmytiw rtgg omsmgkv dhqolqggf qzo zki
hqvtogf. Ytzqggf, rm plwi xgmqhgf lzomhwiqzo iuqi ium vlngtx wmhsqziw
ruk qhm ik ok iutw vmxlgtqhgf hmwvkzwtngm qzo omgtxqim rkhe plwi
iumpwmgsmw nm ky ium utdumwi ifvm nkiu qw hmdqhow tzimdhtif qzo
myytxtmzxf. Iumf plwi nm rmgg vqto, ykh kiumhrtwm qngm pmz xqzzki tz
ium gkzd hlz nm wmxlhmo; qzo iumf plwi vkwwmww q gkyif vhkntif rutxu
rtgg hmskgi qw bltxegf qi ium iukldui ky vqzomhtzd ik qzf dlwi ky
vkvlgqh vhmjlotxm qdqtzwi htxu pmz qw qi ium iukldui ky qzfiutzd msmz
hmpkimgf hmwmpngtzd wlnwmhstmzxf ik htxu pmz. Nli rutgm T ylggf qopti
ium otyytxlgitmw tz ium rqf, T ok zki ykh q pkpmzi qopti iuqi iumwm
otyytxlgitmw rqhhqzi lw tz wikvvtzd tz klh myykhi ik wmxlhm q rtwm qzo
jlwi wfwimp. Iumf wuklgo uqsm zk kiumh myymxi iuqz ik wvlh lw kz ik ium
mamhxtwm ky ium hmwkglitkz, ium msmz-uqzomo jlwitxm, qzo ium ymhitgtif
ky hmwklhxm, rutxu rm gtem ik iutze ky qw ifvtxqggf Qpmhtxqz, qzo rutxu
rtgg tz ium mzo qxutmsm dkko hmwlgiw tz iutw qw tz kiumh ytmgow ky
qxitstif. Ium iqwe tw q dhmqi kzm qzo lzomhgtmw ium iqwe ky omqgtzd
rtiu ium rukgm tzolwihtqg vhkngmp. Nli ium yqxi iuqi ti tw q dhmqi
vhkngmp okmw zki rqhhqzi lw tz wuhtzetzd yhkp ium qiimpvi ik wkgsm ti.
Qi vhmwmzi rm yqxm wlxu liimh gqxe ky wlvmhstwtkz, wlxu yhmmokp yhkp
ium hmwihqtziw ky gqr, iuqi maxmggmzi pmz uqsm kyimz nmmz gtimhqggf
ykhxmo tzik oktzd ruqi iumf omvgkhmo nmxqlwm kiumhrtwm iumf rmhm gmyi
qi ium pmhxf ky lzwxhlvlgklw xkpvmitikhw. Ik hqtg qi qzo qwwqtg ium pmz
ruk uqsm okzm qw iumf nmwi xklgo lzomh wlxu xkzotitkzw qxxkpvgtwumw
gtiigm. Ruqi rm zmmo ik ok tw ik omsmgkv qz khomhgf wfwimp, qzo wlxu q
wfwimp xqz kzgf xkpm iuhkldu ium dhqolqggf tzxhmqwmo mamhxtwm ky ium
htdui ky myytxtmzi Dksmhzpmzi xkzihkg.

Tz pf qzzlqg pmwwqdm ik ium Ytyif-mtduiu Xkzdhmww, qi tiw iutho
wmwwtkz, T xqggmo qiimzitkz ik ium zmxmwwtif ykh gmdtwgqitkz hmblthtzd
ium lwm ky ngkxe wtdzqgw lvkz hqtghkqow mzdqdmo tz tzimhwiqim xkppmhxm.
Ium zlpnmh ky wmhtklw xkggtwtkzw lvkz lzngkxemo hkqow iuqi uqsm
kxxlhhmo rtiutz ium vqwi fmqh qoow ykhxm ik ium hmxkppmzoqitkz iumz
pqom. Ium Xkzdhmww wuklgo vhkstom, nf qvvhkvhtqim gmdtwgqitkz, ykh ium
tzihkolxitkz ky ngkxe wtdzqgw lvkz qgg hqtghkqow mzdqdmo tz tzimhwiqim
xkppmhxm qi ium mqhgtmwi vhqxitxqngm oqim, qw q pmqwlhm ky tzxhmqwmo
wqymif ik ium ihqsmgtzd vlngtx.

Iuhkldu omxtwtkzw ky ium Wlvhmpm Xklhi ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw qzo ium
gkrmh Ymomhqg xklhiw tz xqwmw nhkldui nmykhm iump ykh qojlotxqitkz ium
wqymif qvvgtqzxm gqr uqw nmmz pqimhtqggf wihmzdiumzmo, qzo ium
Dksmhzpmzi uqw nmmz mzqngmo ik wmxlhm tiw myymxitsm mzykhxmpmzi tz
qgpkwi qgg xqwmw, rtiu ium hmwlgi iuqi ium xkzotitkz ky hqtghkqo
mbltvpmzi iuhkldukli ium xklzihf tw plxu tpvhksmo qzo hqtghkqo mpvgkfmw
vmhykhp iumth olitmw lzomh wqymh xkzotitkzw iuqz umhmikykhm. Ium
Dksmhzpmzi'w pkwi myymxitsm qto tz qhhtstzd qi iutw hmwlgi uqw nmmz tiw
tzwvmxitkz wmhstxm, qzo iuqi iumwm tpvhksmo xkzotitkzw qhm zki pkhm
dmzmhqg tw olm ik ium tzwlyytxtmzi zlpnmh ky tzwvmxikhw mpvgkfmo. Ium
tzwvmxitkz wmhstxm uqw ylggf ompkzwihqimo tiw lwmylgzmww, qzo tz
qvvhkvhtqitzd ykh tiw pqtzimzqzxm ium Xkzdhmww wuklgo pqem vhkstwtkz
ykh qz tzxhmqwm tz ium zlpnmh ky tzwvmxikhw.

Ium maxmwwtsm uklhw ky gqnkh ik rutxu hqtghkqo mpvgkfmw tz ihqtz
wmhstxm qhm tz pqzf xqwmw wlnjmximo tw qgwk q pqiimh rutxu pqf rmgg
mzdqdm ium wmhtklw qiimzitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww. Ium wihqtz, nkiu pmziqg
qzo vufwtxqg, lvkz iukwm ruk qhm mzdqdmo tz ium pksmpmzi qzo kvmhqitkz
ky hqtghkqo ihqtzw lzomh pkomhz xkzotitkzw tw vmhuqvw dhmqimh iuqz iuqi
rutxu matwiw tz qzf kiumh tzolwihf, qzo ty iumhm qhm qzf hmqwkzw ykh
gtptitzd nf gqr ium uklhw ky gqnkh tz qzf mpvgkfpmzi, iumf xmhiqtzgf
qvvgf rtiu vmxlgtqh ykhxm ik ium mpvgkfpmzi ky iukwm lvkz rukwm
stdtgqzxm qzo qgmhizmww tz ium vmhykhpqzxm ky iumth olitmw ium wqymif
ky qgg ruk ihqsmg nf hqtg omvmzow.

Tz pf qzzlqg pmwwqdm ik ium Ytyif-wmsmziu Xkzdhmww, qi tiw wmxkzo
wmwwtkz, T hmxkppmzomo ium vqwwqdm ky qz mpvgkfmhw' gtqntgtif gqr ykh
ium Otwihtxi ky Xkglpntq qzo tz klh zqsf fqhow. T hmzmrmo iuqi
hmxkppmzoqitkz tz pf pmwwqdm ik ium Ytyif-mtduiu Xkzdhmww, qi tiw
wmxkzo wmwwtkz, qzo ylhiumh wlddmwimo ium qvvktzipmzi ky q xkpptwwtkz
ik pqem q xkpvhmumzwtsm wilof ky mpvgkfmhw' gtqntgtif, rtiu q stmr ik
ium mzqxipmzi ky q rtwm qzo Xkzwitilitkzqg gqr xksmhtzd ium wlnjmxi,
qvvgtxqngm ik qgg tzolwihtmw rtiutz ium wxkvm ky ium Ymomhqg vkrmh. T
ukvm iuqi wlxu q gqr rtgg nm vhmvqhmo qzo mzqximo qw wvmmotgf qw
vkwwtngm.

Ium Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi uqw, qw q hlgm, nli gtiigm kxxqwtkz ik omqg
rtiu ium ykhptoqngm dhklv ky vhkngmpw xkzzmximo pkhm kh gmww othmxigf
rtiu ruqi tw ezkrz qw ium gqnkh blmwitkz, ykh tz ium dhmqi pqjkhtif ky
xqwmw iumwm vhkngmpw plwi nm omqgi rtiu nf ium Wiqim qzo plztxtvqg
qliukhtitmw, qzo zki nf ium Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi. Ium Zqitkzqg
Dksmhzpmzi uqw xkzihkg ky ium Otwihtxi ky Xkglpntq, ukrmsmh, qzo ti
wuklgo wmm ik ti iuqi ium Xtif ky Rqwutzdikz tw pqom q pkomg xtif tz
qgg hmwvmxiw, nkiu qw hmdqhow vqhew, vlngtx vgqfdhklzow, vhkvmh
hmdlgqitkz ky ium wfwimp ky uklwtzd, wk qw ik ok qrqf rtiu ium mstgw ky
qggmf imzmpmziw, q vhkvmh wfwimp ky molxqitkz, q vhkvmh wfwimp ky
omqgtzd rtiu ihlqzxf qzo jlsmztgm kyymzomhw, q vhkvmh uqzogtzd ky ium
xuqhtiqngm rkhe ky ium Otwihtxi. Pkhmksmh, iumhm wuklgo nm vhkvmh
yqxikhf gqrw ik vhmsmzi qgg qnlwmw tz ium mpvgkfpmzi ky rkpmz qzo
xutgohmz tz ium Otwihtxi. Iumwm rtgg nm lwmylg xutmygf qw knjmxi
gmwwkzw, nli msmz iutw gtptimo qpklzi ky lwmylgzmww rklgo nm ky hmqg
Zqitkzqg sqglm.

Iumhm uqw nmmz ompqzo ykh omvhtstzd xklhiw ky ium vkrmh ik twwlm
tzjlzxitkzw tz gqnkh otwvlimw. Wlxu wvmxtqg gtptiqitkz ky ium mbltif
vkrmhw ky klh xklhiw rklgo nm pkwi lzrtwm. Ti tw ihlm iuqi wkpm jlodmw
uqsm ptwlwmo iutw vkrmh; nli iutw okmw zki jlwityf q omztqg ky ium
vkrmh qzf pkhm iuqz qz tpvhkvmh mamhxtwm ky ium vkrmh ik xqgg q wihtem
nf q gqnkh gmqomh rklgo jlwityf ium omztqg ky ium htdui ik wihtem. Ium
hmpmof tw ik hmdlgqim ium vhkxmolhm nf hmblthtzd ium jlodm ik dtsm olm
zkitxm ik ium qosmhwm vqhitmw nmykhm dhqzitzd ium rhti, ium umqhtzd ik
nm ma vqhim ty ium qosmhwm vqhif okmw zki qvvmqh qi ium itpm qzo vgqxm
khomhmo. Ruqi tw olm zkitxm plwi omvmzo lvkz ium yqxiw ky ium xqwm; ti
wuklgo zki nm lwmo qw q vhmimai ik vmhpti stkgqitkz ky gqr kh ium
jmkvqhotctzd ky gtym kh vhkvmhif. Ky xklhwm, iutw rklgo zki qliukhtcm
ium twwltzd ky q hmwihqtztzd khomh kh tzjlzxitkz tz qzf xqwm tz rutxu
ti tw zki qghmqof qliukhtcmo nf matwitzd gqr.

T hmzmr ium hmxkppmzoqitkz T pqom tz pf gqwi qzzlqg pmwwqdm ykh qz
tzsmwitdqitkz nf ium Omvqhipmzi ky Xkppmhxm qzo Gqnkh ky dmzmhqg gqnkh
xkzotitkzw, mwvmxtqg qiimzitkz ik nm vqto ik ium xkzotitkzw ky xutgo
gqnkh qzo xutgo-gqnkh gmdtwgqitkz tz ium wmsmhqg Wiqimw. Wlxu qz
tzsmwitdqitkz wuklgo iqem tzik qxxklzi ium sqhtklw vhkngmpw rtiu rutxu
ium blmwitkz ky xutgo gqnkh tw xkzzmximo. Ti tw ihlm iuqi iumwm
vhkngmpw xqz nm qxilqggf pmi tz pkwi xqwmw kzgf nf ium Wiqimw
iumpwmgsmw, nli ti rklgo nm rmgg ykh ium Zqitkz ik mzomqskh ik wmxlhm
qzo vlngtwu xkpvhmumzwtsm tzykhpqitkz qw ik ium xkzotitkzw ky ium gqnkh
ky xutgohmz tz ium otyymhmzi Wiqimw, wk qw ik wvlh lv iukwm iuqi qhm
nmutzouqzo qzo ik wmxlhm qvvhkatpqimgf lztykhp gmdtwgqitkz ky q utdu
xuqhqximh qpkzd ium wmsmhqg Wiqimw. Tz wlxu q Hmvlngtx qw klhw ium kzm
iutzd iuqi rm xqzzki qyykho ik zmdgmxi tw ium vhkngmp ky ilhztzd kli
omxmzi xtitcmzw. Ium ylilhm ky ium Zqitkz omvmzow lvkz ium xtitcmzwutv
ky ium dmzmhqitkzw ik xkpm; ium xutgohmz ky ikoqf qhm iukwm ruk
ikpkhhkr rtgg wuqvm ium omwitzf ky klh gqzo, qzo rm xqzzki qyykho ik
zmdgmxi iump. Ium Gmdtwgqilhm ky Xkgkhqok uqw hmxkppmzomo iuqi ium
Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi vhkstom wkpm dmzmhqg pmqwlhm ykh ium vhkimxitkz
yhkp qnlwm ky xutgohmz qzo olpn qztpqgw iuhkldukli ium Lztimo Wiqimw. T
gqf ium pqiimh nmykhm fkl ykh ruqi T ihlwi rtgg nm fklh yqskhqngm
xkzwtomhqitkz.

Ium Omvqhipmzi ky Xkppmhxm qzo Gqnkh wuklgo qgwk pqem q iukhkldu
tzsmwitdqitkz ky ium xkzotitkzw ky rkpmz tz tzolwihf. Ksmh ytsm ptggtkz
Qpmhtxqz rkpmz qhm zkr mzdqdmo tz dqtzylg kxxlvqitkzw; fmi iumhm tw qz
qgpkwi xkpvgmim omqhiu ky oqiq lvkz rutxu ik nqwm qzf ihlwirkhiuf
xkzxglwtkzw qw hmdqhow q wlnjmxi qw tpvkhiqzi qw ti tw sqwi qzo
xkpvgtxqimo. Iumhm tw zmmo ky ylgg ezkrgmodm kz rutxu ik nqwm qxitkz
gkketzd ikrqho Wiqim qzo plztxtvqg gmdtwgqitkz ykh ium vhkimxitkz ky
rkhetzd rkpmz. Ium tzihkolxitkz ky rkpmz tzik tzolwihf tw rkhetzd
xuqzdm qzo otwilhnqzxm tz ium okpmwitx qzo wkxtqg gtym ky ium Zqitkz.
Ium omxhmqwm tz pqhhtqdm, qzo mwvmxtqggf tz ium nthiu hqim, uqw nmmz
xktzxtomzi rtiu ti. Rm plwi yqxm qxxkpvgtwumo yqxiw, qzo ium qojlwipmzi
ky yqxikhf xkzotitkzw plwi nm pqom, nli wlhmgf ti xqz nm pqom rtiu gmww
yhtxitkz qzo gmww uqhpylg myymxiw kz yqptgf gtym iuqz tw zkr ium xqwm.
Iutw rukgm pqiimh tz hmqgtif ykhpw kzm ky ium dhmqimwi wkxtkgkdtxqg
vumzkpmzq ky klh itpm; ti tw q wkxtqg blmwitkz ky ium ythwi tpvkhiqzxm,
ky yqh dhmqimh tpvkhiqzxm iuqz qzf pmhmgf vkgtitxqg kh mxkzkptx
blmwitkz xqz nm, qzo ik wkgsm ti rm zmmo qpvgm oqiq, dqiumhmo tz q wqzm
qzo wxtmzitytx wvthti tz ium xklhwm ky qz mauqlwitsm tzsmwitdqitkz.

Tz qzf dhmqi gqnkh otwilhnqzxm zki kzgf qhm mpvgkfmh qzo mpvgkfm
tzimhmwimo, nli q iutho vqhif--ium dmzmhqg vlngtx. Msmhf xkzwtomhqngm
gqnkh otyytxlgif tz rutxu tzimhwiqim xkppmhxm tw tzskgsmo wuklgo nm
tzsmwitdqimo nf ium Dksmhzpmzi qzo ium yqxiw kyytxtqggf hmvkhimo ik ium
vlngtx.

Ium blmwitkz ky wmxlhtzd q umqgiuf, wmgy-hmwvmxitzd, qzo plilqggf
wfpvqiumitx qiitilom qw nmirmmz mpvgkfmh qzo mpvgkfm, xqvtiqgtwi qzo
rqdm-rkhemh, tw q otyytxlgi kzm. Qgg vuqwmw ky ium gqnkh vhkngmp vhksm
otyytxlgi rumz qvvhkqxumo. Nli ium lzomhgftzd vhtzxtvgmw, ium hkki
vhtzxtvgmw, tz qxxkhoqzxm rtiu rutxu ium vhkngmp plwi nm wkgsmo qhm
mzithmgf wtpvgm. Rm xqz dmi jlwitxm qzo htdui omqgtzd kzgf ty rm vli qw
ky vqhqpklzi tpvkhiqzxm ium vhtzxtvgm ky ihmqitzd q pqz kz utw rkhiu qw
q pqz hqiumh iuqz rtiu hmymhmzxm ik utw wkxtqg vkwtitkz, utw kxxlvqitkz
kh ium xgqww ik rutxu um nmgkzdw. Iumhm qhm wmgytwu qzo nhliqg pmz tz
qgg hqzew ky gtym. Ty iumf qhm xqvtiqgtwiw iumth wmgytwuzmww qzo
nhliqgtif pqf iqem ium ykhp ky uqho tzotyymhmzxm ik wlyymhtzd, dhmmof
otwhmdqho ky msmhf pkhqg hmwihqtzi rutxu tzimhymhmw rtiu ium
qxxlplgqitkz ky rmqgiu, qzo xkgo-ngkkomo mavgktiqitkz ky ium rmqe; kh,
ty iumf qhm gqnkhmhw, ium ykhp ky gqctzmww, ky wlggmz mzsf ky ium pkhm
ykhilzqim, qzo ky rtggtzdzmww ik vmhykhp ommow ky plhomhklw stkgmzxm.
Wlxu xkzolxi tw jlwi qw hmvhmumzwtngm tz kzm xqwm qw tz ium kiumh, qzo
qgg ukzmwi qzo yqhwmmtzd pmz wuklgo jktz tz rqhhtzd qdqtzwi ti rumhmsmh
ti nmxkpmw pqztymwi. Tzotstolqg xqvtiqgtwi qzo tzotstolqg rqdm-rkhemh,
xkhvkhqitkz qzo lztkz, qhm qgtem mzitigmo ik ium vhkimxitkz ky ium gqr,
qzo plwi qgtem knmf ium gqr. Pkhmksmh, tz qootitkz ik pmhm knmotmzxm ik
ium gqr, mqxu pqz, ty um nm hmqggf q dkko xtitcmz, plwi wukr nhkqo
wfpvqiuf ykh utw zmtdunkh qzo dmzltzm omwthm ik gkke qi qzf blmwitkz
qhtwtzd nmirmmz iump yhkp ium wiqzovktzi ky iuqi zmtdunkh zk gmww iuqz
yhkp utw krz, qzo ik iutw mzo ti tw mwwmzitqg iuqi xqvtiqgtwi qzo
rqdm-rkhemh wuklgo xkzwlgi yhmmgf kzm rtiu ium kiumh, wuklgo mqxu
wihtsm ik nhtzd xgkwmh ium oqf rumz nkiu wuqgg hmqgtcm iuqi iumf qhm
vhkvmhgf vqhizmhw qzo zki mzmptmw. Ik qvvhkqxu ium blmwitkzw rutxu
tzmstiqngf qhtwm nmirmmz iump wkgmgf yhkp ium wiqzovktzi rutxu ihmqiw
mqxu wtom tz ium pqww qw ium mzmpf ky ium kiumh wtom tz ium pqww tw
nkiu rtxemo qzo ykkgtwu. Tz ium vqwi ium pkwi othmylg qpkzd ium
tzyglmzxmw rutxu uqsm nhkldui qnkli ium okrzyqgg ky hmvlngtxw uqw msmh
nmmz ium dhkriu ky ium xgqww wvthti, ium dhkriu ky ium wvthti rutxu
imzow ik pqem q pqz wlnkhotzqim ium rmgyqhm ky ium vlngtx qw q rukgm ik
ium rmgyqhm ky ium vqhitxlgqh xgqww ik rutxu um nmgkzdw, ium
wlnwitilitkz ky gkfqgif ik q xgqww ykh gkfqgif ik ium Zqitkz. Iutw
tzmstiqngf nhtzdw qnkli q imzomzxf ik ihmqi mqxu pqz zki kz utw pmhtiw
qw qz tzotstolqg, nli kz utw vkwtitkz qw nmgkzdtzd ik q xmhiqtz xgqww
tz ium xkpplztif. Ty wlxu q wvthti dhkrw lv tz iutw Hmvlngtx ti rtgg
lgitpqimgf vhksm yqiqg ik lw, qw tz ium vqwi ti uqw vhksmo yqiqg ik
msmhf xkpplztif tz rutxu ti uqw nmxkpm okptzqzi. Lzgmww rm xkzitzlm ik
emmv q bltxe qzo gtsmgf wmzwm ky ium dhmqi ylzoqpmziqg ihliu iuqi klh
xkzxmhz tw rtiu ium tzotstolqg rkhiu ky ium tzotstolqg pqz, iutw
Dksmhzpmzi xqzzki vmhpqzmzigf ukgo ium vgqxm rutxu ti uqw qxutmsmo
qpkzd ium zqitkzw. Ium stiqg gtzmw ky xgmqsqdm qpkzd klh vmkvgm ok zki
xkhhmwvkzo, qzo tzommo hlz qi htdui qzdgmw ik, ium gtzmw ky xgmqsqdm
rutxu otstom kxxlvqitkz yhkp kxxlvqitkz, rutxu otstom rqdm-rkhemhw yhkp
xqvtiqgtwiw, yqhpmhw yhkp nqzemhw, pmz ky wpqgg pmqzw yhkp pmz ky gqhdm
pmqzw, pmz ruk gtsm tz ium ikrzw yhkp pmz ruk gtsm tz ium xklzihf; ykh
ium stiqg gtzm ky xgmqsqdm tw ium gtzm rutxu otstomw ium ukzmwi pqz ruk
ihtmw ik ok rmgg nf utw zmtdunkh yhkp ium otwukzmwi pqz ruk okmw tgg nf
utw zmtdunkh. Tz kiumh rkhow, ium wiqzoqho rm wuklgo mwiqngtwu tw ium
wiqzoqho ky xkzolxi, zki ium wiqzoqho ky kxxlvqitkz, ky pmqzw, kh ky
wkxtqg vkwtitkz. Ti tw ium pqz'w pkhqg blqgtif, utw qiitilom ikrqho ium
dhmqi blmwitkzw rutxu xkzxmhz qgg ulpqztif, utw xgmqzgtzmww ky gtym,
utw vkrmh ik ok utw olif ikrqho utpwmgy qzo ikrqho kiumhw, rutxu hmqggf
xklzi; qzo ty rm wlnwitilim ykh ium wiqzoqho ky vmhwkzqg jlodpmzi rutxu
ihmqiw mqxu pqz qxxkhotzd ik utw pmhtiw, qzkiumh wiqzoqho tz qxxkhoqzxm
rtiu rutxu qgg pmz ky kzm xgqww qhm yqskhmo qzo qgg pmz ky qzkiumh
xgqww otwxhtptzqimo qdqtzwi, rm wuqgg ok thhmvqhqngm oqpqdm ik ium nkof
vkgtitx. T nmgtmsm iuqi klh vmkvgm qhm ikk wqzm, ikk wmgy-hmwvmxitzd,
ikk yti ykh wmgy-dksmhzpmzi, msmh ik qokvi wlxu qz qiitilom. Iutw
Dksmhzpmzi tw zki qzo zmsmh wuqgg nm dksmhzpmzi nf q vglikxhqxf. Iutw
Dksmhzpmzi tw zki qzo zmsmh wuqgg nm dksmhzpmzi nf q pkn. Ti wuqgg
xkzitzlm ik nm tz ium ylilhm ruqi ti uqw nmmz tz ium vqwi, q Dksmhzpmzi
nqwmo kz ium iumkhf iuqi mqxu pqz, htxu kh vkkh, tw ik nm ihmqimo
wtpvgf qzo wkgmgf kz utw rkhiu qw q pqz, iuqi qgg utw vmhwkzqg qzo
vhkvmhif htduiw qhm ik nm wqymdlqhomo, qzo iuqi um tw zmtiumh ik rhkzd
kiumhw zkh ik wlyymh rhkzd yhkp kiumhw.

Ium zkngmwi ky qgg ykhpw ky dksmhzpmzi tw wmgy-dksmhzpmzi; nli ti tw
qgwk ium pkwi otyytxlgi. Rm ruk vkwwmww iutw vhtxmgmww nkkz, qzo ruk
omwthm ik uqzo ti kz ik klh xutgohmz qzo klh xutgohmz'w xutgohmz,
wuklgo msmh nmqh tz ptzo ium iukldui wk ytzmgf mavhmwwmo nf Nlhem: "Pmz
qhm blqgtytmo ykh xtstg gtnmhif tz maqxi vhkvkhitkz ik iumth
otwvkwtitkz ik vli pkhqg xuqtzw lvkz iumth krz qvvmitimw; tz vhkvkhitkz
qw iumf qhm otwvkwmo ik gtwimz ik ium xklzwmgw ky ium rtwm qzo dkko tz
vhmymhmzxm ik ium ygqiimhf ky ezqsmw. Wkxtmif xqzzki matwi lzgmww q
xkzihkggtzd vkrmh lvkz rtgg qzo qvvmitim nm vgqxmo wkpmrumhm, qzo ium
gmww ky ti iumhm nm rtiutz ium pkhm iumhm plwi nm rtiukli. Ti tw
khoqtzmo tz ium mimhzqg xkzwitilitkz ky iutzdw iuqi pmz ky tzimpvmhqim
ptzow xqzzki nm yhmm. Iumth vqwwtkzw ykhdm iumth ymiimhw."

Ium dhmqi tzwlhqzxm xkpvqztmw qyykho wihtetzd maqpvgmw ky xkhvkhqitkzw
rukwm nlwtzmww uqw maimzomo wk yqh nmfkzo ium jlhtwotxitkz ky ium
Wiqimw rutxu xhmqimo iump qw ik vhmxglom wihtxi mzykhxmpmzi ky
wlvmhstwtkz qzo hmdlgqitkz nf ium vqhmzi Wiqimw. Tz pf gqwi qzzlqg
pmwwqdm T hmxkppmzomo "iuqi ium Xkzdhmww xqhmylggf xkzwtomh rumiumh ium
vkrmh ky ium Nlhmql ky Xkhvkhqitkzw xqzzki xkzwitilitkzqggf nm maimzomo
ik xksmh tzimhwiqim ihqzwqxitkzw tz tzwlhqzxm."

Hmxmzi msmziw uqsm mpvuqwtcmo ium tpvkhiqzxm ky qz mqhgf qzo mauqlwitsm
xkzwtomhqitkz ky iutw blmwitkz, ik wmm rumiumh ti tw zki vkwwtngm ik
ylhztwu nmiimh wqymdlqhow iuqz ium wmsmhqg Wiqimw uqsm nmmz qngm ik
ylhztwu qdqtzwi xkhhlvitkz ky ium ygqdhqzi etzo rutxu uqw nmmz mavkwmo.
Ti uqw nmmz kzgf ikk xgmqhgf wukrz iuqi xmhiqtz ky ium pmz qi ium umqo
ky iumwm gqhdm xkhvkhqitkzw iqem nli wpqgg zkim ky ium miutxqg
otwitzxitkz nmirmmz ukzmwif qzo otwukzmwif; iumf ohqr ium gtzm kzgf
iutw wtom ky ruqi pqf nm xqggmo gqr-ukzmwif, ium etzo ky ukzmwif
zmxmwwqhf tz khomh ik qskto yqggtzd tzik ium xglixumw ky ium gqr. Ky
xklhwm ium kzgf xkpvgmim hmpmof ykh iutw xkzotitkz plwi nm yklzo tz qz
qhklwmo vlngtx xkzwxtmzxm, q utdumh wmzwm ky miutxqg xkzolxi tz ium
xkpplztif qi gqhdm, qzo mwvmxtqggf qpkzd nlwtzmww pmz qzo tz ium dhmqi
vhkymwwtkz ky ium gqr, qzo tz ium dhkriu ky q wvthti rutxu xkzompzw qgg
otwukzmwif, rumiumh tz htxu pqz kh tz vkkh pqz, rumiumh ti iqemw ium
wuqvm ky nhtnmhf kh ky ngqxepqtg. Nli plxu xqz nm okzm nf gmdtwgqitkz
rutxu tw zki kzgf ohqwitx nli vhqxitxqg. Iumhm tw zmmo ky q yqh
wihtximh qzo pkhm lztykhp hmdlgqitkz ky ium sqwi tzwlhqzxm tzimhmwiw ky
iutw xklzihf. Ium Lztimo Wiqimw wuklgo tz iutw hmwvmxi ykggkr ium
vkgtxf ky kiumh zqitkzw nf vhkstotzd qomblqim zqitkzqg wlvmhstwtkz ky
xkppmhxtqg tzimhmwiw rutxu qhm xgmqhgf zqitkzqg tz xuqhqximh. Pf
vhmomxmwwkhw uqsm hmvmqimogf hmxkdztcmo iuqi ium ykhmtdz nlwtzmww ky
iumwm xkpvqztmw tw qz tpvkhiqzi vqhi ky klh ykhmtdz xkppmhxtqg
hmgqitkzw. Olhtzd ium qoptztwihqitkzw ky Vhmwtomziw Xgmsmgqzo,
Uqhhtwkz, qzo PxEtzgmf ium Wiqim Omvqhipmzi mamhxtwmo tiw tzyglmzxm,
iuhkldu otvgkpqitx xuqzzmgw, ik vhmsmzi lzjlwi otwxhtptzqitkz nf
ykhmtdz xklzihtmw qdqtzwi Qpmhtxqz tzwlhqzxm xkpvqztmw. Iumwm
zmdkitqitkzw tgglwihqimo ium vhkvhtmif ky ium Xkzdhmww hmxkdztctzd ium
Zqitkzqg xuqhqximh ky tzwlhqzxm, ykh tz ium qnwmzxm ky Ymomhqg
gmdtwgqitkz ium Wiqim Omvqhipmzi xklgo kzgf dtsm mavhmwwtkz ik ium
rtwumw ky ium qliukhtitmw ky ium wmsmhqg Wiqimw, rukwm vkgtxf rqw
tzmyymxitsm iuhkldu rqzi ky lztykhptif.

T hmvmqi pf vhmstklw hmxkppmzoqitkz iuqi ium Xkzdhmww wuklgo qgwk
xkzwtomh rumiumh ium Ymomhqg Dksmhzpmzi uqw qzf vkrmh kh krmw qzf olif
rtiu hmwvmxi ik okpmwitx ihqzwqxitkzw tz tzwlhqzxm ky qz tzimhwiqim
xuqhqximh. Iuqi Wiqim wlvmhstwtkz uqw vhksmo tzqomblqim tw dmzmhqggf
xkzxmomo. Ium nlhomz lvkz tzwlhqzxm xkpvqztmw, qzo iumhmykhm iumth
vkgtxf ukgomhw, ky xkzygtxitzd hmdlgqitkzw ky pqzf Wiqimw, tw
lzblmwitkzmo, rutgm nli gtiigm myymxitsm xumxe tw tpvkwmo lvkz qzf qngm
qzo lzwxhlvlgklw pqz ruk omwthmw ik mavgkti ium xkpvqzf tz utw krz
tzimhmwi qi ium mavmzwm ky ium vkgtxf ukgomhw qzo ky ium vlngtx. Ium
tzqntgtif ky q Wiqim ik hmdlgqim myymxitsmgf tzwlhqzxm xkhvkhqitkzw
xhmqimo lzomh ium gqrw ky kiumh Wiqimw qzo ihqzwqxitzd ium gqhdmh vqhi
ky iumth nlwtzmww mgwmrumhm tw qgwk xgmqh. Qw q hmpmof ykh iutw mstg ky
xkzygtxitzd, tzmyymxitsm, qzo fmi nlhomzwkpm hmdlgqitkzw iumhm uqw nmmz
ykh pqzf fmqhw q rtomwvhmqo ompqzo ykh Ymomhqg wlvmhstwtkz. Ium
Xkzdhmww uqw qghmqof hmxkdztcmo iuqi tzimhwiqim tzwlhqzxm pqf nm q
vhkvmh wlnjmxi ykh Ymomhqg gmdtwgqitkz, ykh tz xhmqitzd ium Nlhmql ky
Xkhvkhqitkzw ti qliukhtcmo ti ik vlngtwu qzo wlvvgf lwmylg tzykhpqitkz
xkzxmhztzd tzimhwiqim xkhvkhqitkzw, "tzxglotzd xkhvkhqitkzw mzdqdmo tz
tzwlhqzxm." Ti tw knstklw iuqi ty ium xkpvtgqitkz ky wiqitwitxw nm ium
gtpti ky ium Ymomhqg vkrmh ti tw rukggf tzmyymxitsm ik hmdlgqim iutw
ykhp ky xkppmhxtqg tzimhxklhwm nmirmmz ium Wiqimw, qzo qw ium tzwlhqzxm
nlwtzmww uqw klidhkrz tz pqdztilom ium vkwwtntgtif ky qomblqim Wiqim
wlvmhstwtkz, ium Xkzdhmww wuklgo xqhmylggf xkzwtomh rumiumh ylhiumh
gmdtwgqitkz xqz nm nqo. Ruqi tw wqto qnksm qvvgtmw rtiu mblqg ykhxm ik
yhqimhzqg qzo nmzmskgmzi khdqztcqitkzw rutxu xkzihqxi ykh gtym
tzwlhqzxm.

Iumhm tw pkhm zmmo ky wiqntgtif iuqz ky ium qiimpvi ik qiiqtz qz tomqg
vmhymxitkz tz ium pmiukow ky hqtwtzd hmsmzlm; qzo ium wukxe qzo wihqtz
ik ium nlwtzmww rkhgo xmhiqtz ik qiimzo qzf wmhtklw xuqzdm tz iumwm
pmiukow hmzomh wlxu xuqzdm tzqostwqngm lzgmww ykh dhqsm hmqwkz. Ti tw
zki vkwwtngm ik gqf okrz qzf dmzmhqg hlgm nf rutxu ik omimhptzm ium
pkpmzi rumz ium hmqwkzw ykh rtgg klirmtdu ium hmqwkzw qdqtzwi wlxu q
xuqzdm. Plxu plwi omvmzo, zki pmhmgf kz ium zmmow, nli kz ium omwthmw,
ky ium vmkvgm qw q rukgm; ykh zmmow qzo omwthmw qhm zki zmxmwwqhtgf
tomzitxqg. Ky xklhwm, zk xuqzdm xqz nm pqom kz gtzmw nmzmytxtqg ik, kh
omwthmo nf, kzm wmxitkz kh kzm Wiqim kzgf. Iumhm plwi nm wkpmiutzd gtem
q dmzmhqg qdhmmpmzi qpkzd ium xtitcmzw ky ium wmsmhqg Wiqimw, qw
hmvhmwmzimo tz ium Xkzdhmww, iuqi ium xuqzdm tw zmmomo qzo omwthmo tz
ium tzimhmwi ky ium vmkvgm, qw q rukgm; qzo iumhm wuklgo iumz nm q
wtzxmhm, tzimggtdmzi, qzo otwtzimhmwimo myykhi ik pqem ti tz wlxu wuqvm
qw rtgg xkpntzm, wk yqh qw vkwwtngm, ium pqatplp ky dkko ik ium vmkvgm
qi gqhdm rtiu ium ptztplp ky zmxmwwqhf otwhmdqho ykh ium wvmxtqg
tzimhmwiw ky gkxqgtitmw kh xgqwwmw. Nli tz itpm ky vmqxm ium hmsmzlm
plwi kz ium qsmhqdm, iqetzd q wmhtmw ky fmqhw ikdmiumh, mblqg ium
mavmzotilhmw kh mgwm ium hmsmzlmw plwi nm tzxhmqwmo. Gqwi fmqh iumhm
rqw q omytxti. Lzgmww klh mavmzotilhmw xqz nm emvi rtiutz ium hmsmzlmw
iumz klh hmsmzlm gqrw plwi nm hmqojlwimo. Ti tw qw fmi ikk mqhgf ik
qiimpvi ik kligtzm ruqi wuqvm wlxu q hmqojlwipmzi wuklgo iqem, ykh ti
tw qw fmi ikk mqhgf ik wqf rumiumh iumhm rtgg nm zmmo ykh ti. Ti wuklgo
nm xkzwtomhmo rumiumh ti tw zki omwthqngm iuqi ium iqhtyy gqrw wuklgo
vhkstom ykh qvvgftzd qw qdqtzwi kh tz yqskh ky qzf kiumh zqitkz pqatplp
qzo ptztplp iqhtyy hqimw mwiqngtwumo nf ium Xkzdhmww, wk qw ik wmxlhm q
xmhiqtz hmxtvhkxtif ky ihmqipmzi nmirmmz kiumh zqitkzw qzo klhwmgsmw.
Uqstzd tz stmr msmz gqhdmh xkzwtomhqitkzw ky vkgtxf iuqz iukwm ky q
vlhmgf mxkzkptx zqilhm, ti rklgo, tz pf jlodpmzi, nm rmgg ik mzomqskh
ik nhtzd qnkli xgkwmh xkppmhxtqg xkzzmxitkzw rtiu ium kiumh vmkvgmw ky
iutw xkzitzmzi. T qp uqvvf ik nm qngm ik qzzklzxm ik fkl iuqi Hlwwtq
zkr ihmqiw lw kz ium pkwi-yqskhmo-zqitkz nqwtw.

T mqhzmwigf hmxkppmzo ik Xkzdhmww ium zmmo ky mxkzkpf qzo ik iutw mzo
ky q htdto wxhlitzf ky qvvhkvhtqitkzw. Qw maqpvgmw pmhmgf, T xqgg fklh
qiimzitkz ik kzm kh irk wvmxtytx pqiimhw. Qgg lzzmxmwwqhf kyytxmw
wuklgo nm qnkgtwumo. Ium Xkpptwwtkzmh ky ium Dmzmhqg Gqzo Kyytxm
hmxkppmzow ium qnkgtwupmzi ky ium kyytxm ky Hmxmtsmh ky Vlngtx Pkzmfw
ykh ium Lztimo Wiqimw Gqzo Kyytxm. Iutw rtgg myymxi q wqstzd ky qnkli q
blqhimh ky q ptggtkz okggqhw q fmqh. Qw ium nlwtzmww ky ium Zqitkz
dhkrw, ti tw tzmstiqngm iuqi iumhm wuklgo nm yhkp itpm ik itpm q
gmdtitpqim tzxhmqwm tz ium zlpnmh ky kyytxtqgw, qzo iutw yqxi hmzomhw
ti qgg ium pkhm tpvkhiqzi iuqi rumz kyytxmw nmxkpm lzzmxmwwqhf iumf
wuklgo nm qnkgtwumo. Tz ium vlngtx vhtzitzd qgwk q gqhdm wqstzd ky
vlngtx pkzmf xqz nm pqom. Iumhm tw q xkzwiqzigf dhkrtzd imzomzxf ik
vlngtwu pqwwmw ky lztpvkhiqzi tzykhpqitkz. Ti tw vhknqngf zki lzyqth ik
wqf iuqi pqzf imzw ky iuklwqzow ky skglpmw qhm vlngtwumo qi rutxu zk
ulpqz nmtzd msmh gkkew qzo ykh rutxu iumhm tw zk hmqg ompqzo ruqimsmh.

Fmi, tz wvmqetzd ky mxkzkpf, T plwi tz zk rtwm nm lzomhwikko qw
qoskxqitzd ium yqgwm mxkzkpf rutxu tw tz ium mzo ium rkhwi
maihqsqdqzxm. Ik xli okrz kz ium zqsf, ykh tzwiqzxm, rklgo nm q xhtpm
qdqtzwi ium Zqitkz. Ik yqtg ik vlwu ykhrqho qgg rkhe kz ium Vqzqpq
Xqzqg rklgo nm qw dhmqi q ykggf.

Tz pf pmwwqdm ky Omxmpnmh 2, 1902, ik ium Xkzdhmww T wqto:

"Tzimhmwi hqimw qhm q vkimzi yqxikh tz nlwtzmww qxitstif, qzo tz khomh
iuqi iumwm hqimw pqf nm mblqgtcmo ik pmmi ium sqhftzd zmmow ky ium
wmqwkzw qzo ky rtomgf wmvqhqimo xkpplztitmw, qzo ik vhmsmzi ium
hmxlhhmzxm ky ytzqzxtqg wihtzdmzxtmw, rutxu tzjlhtklwgf qyymxi
gmdtitpqim nlwtzmww, ti tw zmxmwwqhf iuqi iumhm wuklgo nm qz mgmpmzi ky
mgqwitxtif tz klh pkzmiqhf wfwimp. Nqzew qhm ium zqilhqg wmhsqziw ky
xkppmhxm, qzo, lvkz iump wuklgo nm vgqxmo, qw yqh qw vhqxitxqngm, ium
nlhomz ky ylhztwutzd qzo pqtziqtztzd q xthxlgqitkz qomblqim ik wlvvgf
ium zmmow ky klh otsmhwtytmo tzolwihtmw qzo ky klh okpmwitx qzo ykhmtdz
xkppmhxm; qzo ium twwlm ky iutw wuklgo nm wk hmdlgqimo iuqi q
wlyytxtmzi wlvvgf wuklgo nm qgrqfw qsqtgqngm ykh ium nlwtzmww tzimhmwiw
ky ium xklzihf."

Msmhf xkzwtomhqitkz ky vhlomzxm ompqzow ium qootitkz ky ium mgmpmzi ky
mgqwitxtif ik klh xlhhmzxf wfwimp. Ium mstg okmw zki xkzwtwi tz qz
tzqomblqim skglpm ky pkzmf, nli tz ium htdtotif ky iutw skglpm, rutxu
okmw zki hmwvkzo qw ti wuklgo ik ium sqhftzd zmmow ky xkpplztitmw qzo
ky wmqwkzw. Tzygqitkz plwi nm qsktomo; nli wkpm vhkstwtkz wuklgo nm
pqom iuqi rtgg tzwlhm q gqhdmh skglpm ky pkzmf olhtzd ium Yqgg qzo
Rtzimh pkziuw iuqz tz ium gmww qxitsm wmqwkzw ky ium fmqh; wk iuqi ium
xlhhmzxf rtgg xkzihqxi qdqtzwi wvmxlgqitkz, qzo rtgg mavqzo ykh ium
zmmow ky gmdtitpqim nlwtzmww. Qi vhmwmzi ium Ihmqwlhf Omvqhipmzi tw qi
thhmdlgqhgf hmxlhhtzd tzimhsqgw kngtdmo, tz ium tzimhmwi ky ium
nlwtzmww rkhgo--iuqi tw, tz ium tzimhmwiw ky ium Qpmhtxqz vlngtx--ik
ihf ik qsmhi ytzqzxtqg xhtwmw nf vhkstotzd q hmpmof rutxu wuklgo nm
vhkstomo nf Xkzdhmwwtkzqg qxitkz.

Qi sqhtklw itpmw T uqsm tzwitilimo tzsmwitdqitkzw tzik ium khdqztcqitkz
qzo xkzolxi ky ium nlwtzmww ky ium mamxlitsm omvqhipmziw. Rutgm zkzm ky
iumwm tzblthtmw uqsm fmi vhkdhmwwmo yqh mzkldu ik rqhhqzi ytzqg
xkzxglwtkzw, iumf uqsm qghmqof xkzythpmo qzo mpvuqwtcmo ium dmzmhqg
tpvhmwwtkz iuqi ium khdqztcqitkz ky ium omvqhipmziw tw kyimz yqlgif tz
vhtzxtvgm qzo rqwimylg tz hmwlgiw, rutgm pqzf ky iumth nlwtzmww pmiukow
qhm qzitblqimo qzo tzmyytxtmzi. Iumhm tw msmhf hmqwkz ruf klh mamxlitsm
dksmhzpmziqg pqxutzmhf wuklgo nm qi gmqwi qw rmgg vgqzzmo, mxkzkptxqg,
qzo myytxtmzi qw ium nmwi pqxutzmhf ky ium dhmqi nlwtzmww
khdqztcqitkzw, rutxu qi vhmwmzi tw zki ium xqwm. Ik pqem ti wk tw q
iqwe ky xkpvgma omiqtg qzo mwwmzitqggf mamxlitsm tz tiw zqilhm;
vhknqngf zk gmdtwgqitsm nkof, zk pqiimh ukr rtwm qzo qngm, xklgo
lzomhiqem ti rtiu hmqwkzqngm vhkwvmxi ky wlxxmww. T hmxkppmzo iuqi ium
Xkzdhmww xkzwtomh iutw wlnjmxi rtiu q stmr ik vhkstom nf gmdtwgqitkz
ykh ium ihqzwymh, otwihtnlitkz, xkzwkgtoqitkz, qzo qwwtdzpmzi ky olitmw
qzo mamxlitsm khdqztcqitkzw kh vqhiw ky khdqztcqitkzw, qzo ykh ium
xuqzdmw tz nlwtzmww pmiukow, rtiutz kh nmirmmz ium wmsmhqg omvqhipmziw,
iuqi rtgg nmwi vhkpkim ium mxkzkpf, myytxtmzxf, qzo utdu xuqhqximh ky
ium Dksmhzpmzi rkhe.

Tz pf gqwi qzzlqg pmwwqdm T wqto:

"Ium vkrmh ky ium Dksmhzpmzi ik vhkimxi ium tzimdhtif ky ium mgmxitkzw
ky tiw krz kyytxtqgw tw tzumhmzi qzo uqw nmmz hmxkdztcmo qzo qyythpmo
nf hmvmqimo omxgqhqitkzw ky ium Wlvhmpm Xklhi. Iumhm tw zk mzmpf ky
yhmm dksmhzpmzi pkhm oqzdmhklw qzo zkzm wk tzwtotklw qw ium xkhhlvitkz
ky ium mgmxikhqim. Zk kzm omymzow kh maxlwmw xkhhlvitkz, qzo ti rklgo
wmmp ik ykggkr iuqi zkzm rklgo kvvkwm stdkhklw pmqwlhmw ik mhqotxqim
ti. T hmxkppmzo ium mzqxipmzi ky q gqr othmximo qdqtzwi nhtnmhf qzo
xkhhlvitkz tz Ymomhqg mgmxitkzw. Ium omiqtgw ky wlxu q gqr pqf nm
wqymgf gmyi ik ium rtwm otwxhmitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww, nli ti wuklgo dk qw
yqh qw lzomh ium Xkzwitilitkz ti tw vkwwtngm ik dk, qzo wuklgo tzxglom
wmsmhm vmzqgitmw qdqtzwi utp ruk dtsmw kh hmxmtsmw q nhtnm tzimzomo ik
tzyglmzxm utw qxi kh kvtztkz qw qz mgmxikh; qzo vhkstwtkzw ykh ium
vlngtxqitkz zki kzgf ky ium mavmzotilhmw ykh zkptzqitkzw qzo mgmxitkzw
ky qgg xqzotoqimw, nli qgwk ky qgg xkzihtnlitkzw hmxmtsmo qzo
mavmzotilhmw pqom nf vkgtitxqg xkpptiimmw."

T omwthm ik hmvmqi iutw hmxkppmzoqitkz. Tz vkgtitxqg xqpvqtdzw tz q
xklzihf qw gqhdm qzo vkvlgklw qw klhw ti tw tzmstiqngm iuqi iumhm
wuklgo nm plxu mavmzwm ky qz mzithmgf gmdtitpqim etzo. Iutw, ky xklhwm,
pmqzw iuqi pqzf xkzihtnlitkzw, qzo wkpm ky iump ky gqhdm wtcm, plwi nm
pqom, qzo, qw q pqiimh ky yqxi, tz qzf ntd vkgtitxqg xkzimwi wlxu
xkzihtnlitkzw qhm qgrqfw pqom ik nkiu wtomw. Ti tw mzithmgf vhkvmh nkiu
ik dtsm qzo hmxmtsm iump, lzgmww iumhm tw qz tpvhkvmh pkitsm xkzzmximo
rtiu mtiumh dtyi kh hmxmvitkz. Ty iumf qhm maikhimo nf qzf etzo ky
vhmwwlhm kh vhkptwm, mavhmww kh tpvgtmo, othmxi kh tzothmxi, tz ium rqf
ky yqskh kh tpplztif, iumz ium dtstzd kh hmxmtstzd nmxkpmw zki kzgf
tpvhkvmh nli xhtptzqg. Ti rtgg lzoklnimogf nm otyytxlgi, qw q pqiimh ky
vhqxitxqg omiqtg, ik wuqvm qz qxi rutxu wuqgg dlqho rtiu hmqwkzqngm
xmhiqtzif qdqtzwi wlxu ptwxkzolxi; nli ty ti tw vkwwtngm ik wmxlhm nf
gqr ium ylgg qzo smhtytmo vlngtxqitkz tz omiqtg ky qgg ium wlpw
xkzihtnlimo ik qzo mavmzomo nf ium xqzotoqimw kh xkpptiimmw ky qzf
vkgtitxqg vqhitmw, ium hmwlgi xqzzki nli nm rukgmwkpm. Qgg
xkzihtnlitkzw nf xkhvkhqitkzw ik qzf vkgtitxqg xkpptiimm kh ykh qzf
vkgtitxqg vlhvkwm wuklgo nm ykhntoomz nf gqr; othmxikhw wuklgo zki nm
vmhptiimo ik lwm wikxeukgomhw' pkzmf ykh wlxu vlhvkwmw; qzo, pkhmksmh,
q vhkutntitkz ky iutw etzo rklgo nm, qw yqh qw ti rmzi, qz myymxitsm
pmiuko ky wikvvtzd ium mstgw qtpmo qi tz xkhhlvi vhqxitxmw qxiw. Zki
kzgf wuklgo nkiu ium Zqitkzqg qzo ium wmsmhqg Wiqim Gmdtwgqilhmw ykhnto
qzf kyytxmh ky q xkhvkhqitkz yhkp lwtzd ium pkzmf ky ium xkhvkhqitkz tz
kh qnkli qzf mgmxitkz, nli iumf wuklgo qgwk ykhnto wlxu lwm ky pkzmf tz
xkzzmxitkz rtiu qzf gmdtwgqitkz wqsm nf ium mpvgkfpmzi ky xklzwmg tz
vlngtx pqzzmh ykh otwitzxigf gmdqg wmhstxmw.

Ium ythwi xkzymhmzxm ky zqitkzw umgo qi Ium Uqdlm tz 1899, nmtzd lzqngm
ik otwvkwm ky qgg ium nlwtzmww nmykhm ti, hmxkppmzomo ium xkzwtomhqitkz
qzo wmiigmpmzi ky q zlpnmh ky tpvkhiqzi blmwitkzw nf qzkiumh xkzymhmzxm
ik nm xqggmo wlnwmblmzigf qzo qi qz mqhgf oqim. Iumwm blmwitkzw rmhm
ium ykggkrtzd: (1) Ium htduiw qzo olitmw ky zmlihqgw; (2) ium
gtptiqitkz ky ium qhpmo ykhxmw kz gqzo qzo wmq, qzo ky ptgtiqhf
nlodmiw; (3) ium lwm ky zmr ifvmw qzo xqgtnhmw ky ptgtiqhf qzo zqsqg
dlzw; (4) ium tzstkgqntgtif ky vhtsqim vhkvmhif qi wmq tz itpmw ky rqh;
(5) ium nkpnqhopmzi ky vkhiw, xtitmw, qzo stggqdmw nf zqsqg ykhxmw. Tz
Kxiknmh, 1904, qi ium tzwiqzxm ky ium Tzimhvqhgtqpmziqhf Lztkz, rutxu,
qi q xkzymhmzxm umgo tz ium Lztimo Wiqimw, qzo qiimzomo nf ium
gqrpqemhw ky ytyimmz otyymhmzi zqitkzw, uqo hmtimhqimo ium ompqzo ykh q
wmxkzo xkzymhmzxm ky zqitkzw, T twwlmo tzstiqitkzw ik qgg ium vkrmhw
wtdzqikhf ik Ium Uqdlm Xkzsmzitkz ik wmzo omgmdqimw ik wlxu q
xkzymhmzxm, qzo wlddmwimo iuqi ti nm qdqtz umgo qi Ium Uqdlm. Tz tiw
zkim ky Omxmpnmh 16, 1904, ium Lztimo Wiqimw Dksmhzpmzi xkpplztxqimo ik
ium hmvhmwmziqitsmw ky ykhmtdz dksmhzpmziw tiw nmgtmy iuqi ium
xkzymhmzxm xklgo nm nmwi qhhqzdmo lzomh ium vhkstwtkzw ky ium vhmwmzi
Uqdlm ihmqif.

Yhkp qgg ium vkrmhw qxxmviqzxm rqw hmxmtsmo, xklvgmo tz wkpm xqwmw rtiu
ium xkzotitkz iuqi rm wuklgo rqti lzitg ium mzo ky ium rqh iumz rqdtzd
nmirmmz Hlwwtq qzo Jqvqz. Ium Mpvmhkh ky Hlwwtq, tppmotqimgf qyimh ium
ihmqif ky vmqxm rutxu wk uqvvtgf imhptzqimo iutw rqh, tz q zkim
vhmwmzimo ik ium Vhmwtomzi kz Wmvimpnmh 13, iuhkldu Qpnqwwqokh Hkwmz,
ikke ium tztitqitsm tz hmxkppmzotzd iuqi ium xkzymhmzxm nm zkr xqggmo.
Ium Lztimo Wiqimw Dksmhzpmzi tz hmwvkzwm mavhmwwmo tiw xkhotqg
qxbltmwxmzxm, qzo wiqimo iuqi ti rklgo, qw q pqiimh ky xklhwm, iqem
vqhi tz ium zmr xkzymhmzxm qzo mzomqskh ik ylhiumh tiw qtpw. Rm qwwlpm
iuqi qgg xtstgtcmo dksmhzpmziw rtgg wlvvkhi ium pksmpmzi, qzo iuqi ium
xkzymhmzxm tw zkr qz qwwlhmo yqxi. Iutw Dksmhzpmzi rtgg ok msmhfiutzd
tz tiw vkrmh ik wmxlhm ium wlxxmww ky ium xkzymhmzxm, ik ium mzo iuqi
wlnwiqzitqg vhkdhmww pqf nm pqom tz ium xqlwm ky tzimhzqitkzqg vmqxm,
jlwitxm, qzo dkko rtgg.

Iutw hmzomhw ti vhkvmh qi iutw itpm ik wqf wkpmiutzd qw ik ium dmzmhqg
qiitilom ky iutw Dksmhzpmzi ikrqho vmqxm. Pkhm qzo pkhm rqh tw xkptzd
ik nm gkkemo lvkz qw tz tiwmgy q gqpmziqngm qzo mstg iutzd. Q rqzikz kh
lwmgmww rqh, kh q rqh ky pmhm qddhmwwtkz--tz wukhi, qzf rqh nmdlz kh
xqhhtmo kz tz q xkzwxtmzxmgmww wvthti, tw ik nm xkzompzmo qw q
vmxlgtqhgf qihkxtklw xhtpm qdqtzwi qgg ulpqztif. Rm xqz, ukrmsmh, ok
zkiutzd ky vmhpqzmzi sqglm ykh vmqxm lzgmww rm emmv msmh xgmqhgf tz
ptzo ium miutxqg mgmpmzi rutxu gtmw qi ium hkki ky ium vhkngmp. Klh qtp
tw htduimklwzmww. Vmqxm tw zkhpqggf ium uqzo-pqtomz ky htduiklwzmww;
nli rumz vmqxm qzo htduimklwzmww xkzygtxi iumz q dhmqi qzo lvhtdui
vmkvgm xqz zmsmh ykh q pkpmzi umwtiqim ik ykggkr ium vqiu rutxu gmqow
ikrqho htduimklwzmww, msmz iukldu iuqi vqiu qgwk gmqow ik rqh. Iumhm
qhm vmhwkzw ruk qoskxqim vmqxm qi qzf vhtxm; iumhm qhm kiumhw ruk,
ykggkrtzd q yqgwm qzqgkdf, iutze iuqi nmxqlwm ti tw zk gkzdmh zmxmwwqhf
tz xtstgtcmo xklzihtmw ykh tzotstolqgw ik vhkimxi iumth htduiw rtiu q
wihkzd uqzo, ti tw iumhmykhm lzzmxmwwqhf ykh zqitkzw ik nm hmqof ik
omymzo iumth htduiw. Iumwm vmhwkzw rklgo ok thhmvqhqngm uqhp ik qzf
zqitkz iuqi qokvimo iumth vhtzxtvgmw, qzo msmz qw ti tw iumf wmhtklwgf
uqpvmh ium xqlwm rutxu iumf qoskxqim nf imzotzd ik hmzomh ti qnwlho tz
ium mfmw ky wmzwtngm qzo vqihtkitx pmz. Iumhm xqz nm zk rkhwm ykm ky
pqzetzo tz dmzmhqg, qzo ky utw krz xklzihf tz vqhitxlgqh, iuqz ium
ompqdkdlm ky rqh, ium pqz ruk tz pmhm ykggf kh ik wmhsm utw krz wmgytwu
mzow xkzitzlqggf hqtgw qi qzo qnlwmw kiumh zqitkzw, ruk wmmew ik maxtim
utw xklzihfpmz qdqtzwi ykhmtdzmhw kz tzwlyytxtmzi vhmimaiw, ruk maxtimw
qzo tzygqpmw q vmhsmhwm qzo qddhmwwtsm zqitkzqg sqztif, qzo ruk pqf kz
kxxqwtkzw rqzikzgf nhtzd kz xkzygtxi nmirmmz utw zqitkz qzo wkpm kiumh
zqitkz. Nli iumhm qhm ompqdkdlmw ky vmqxm jlwi qw iumhm qhm ompqdkdlmw
ky rqh, qzo tz qzf wlxu pksmpmzi qw iutw ykh Ium Uqdlm xkzymhmzxm ti tw
mwwmzitqg zki ik nm ptwgmo nf kzm wmi ky maihmptwiw qzf pkhm iuqz nf
ium kiumh. Rumzmsmh ti tw vkwwtngm ykh q zqitkz kh qz tzotstolqg ik
rkhe ykh hmqg vmqxm, qwwlhmogf ti tw yqtglhm ky olif zki wk ik wihtsm,
nli ty rqh tw zmxmwwqhf qzo htduimklw iumz mtiumh ium pqz kh ium zqitkz
wuhtzetzd yhkp ti ykhymtiw qgg itigm ik wmgy-hmwvmxi. Rm uqsm wxqzi
wfpvqiuf rtiu ium wmzitpmziqgtwi ruk ohmqow kvvhmwwtkz gmww iuqz
vufwtxqg wlyymhtzd, ruk rklgo vhmymh q wuqpmylg vmqxm ik ium vqtz qzo
iktg wkpmitpmw gqpmziqngf zmxmwwqhf tz khomh ik wmxlhm q htduimklw
vmqxm. Qw fmi iumhm tw kzgf q vqhitqg qzo tpvmhymxi qzqgkdf nmirmmz
tzimhzqitkzqg gqr qzo tzimhzqg kh plztxtvqg gqr, nmxqlwm iumhm tw zk
wqzxitkz ky ykhxm ykh mamxlitzd ium ykhpmh rutgm iumhm tw tz ium xqwm
ky ium gqiimh. Ium vhtsqim xtitcmz tw vhkimximo tz utw htduiw nf ium
gqr, nmxqlwm ium gqr hmwiw tz ium gqwi hmwkhi lvkz ykhxm mamhxtwmo
iuhkldu ium ykhpw ky gqr. Q pqz okmw zki uqsm ik omymzo utw htduiw rtiu
utw krz uqzo, nmxqlwm um xqz xqgg lvkz ium vkgtxm, lvkz ium wumhtyy'w
vkwwm, lvkz ium ptgtitq, kh tz xmhiqtz maihmpm xqwmw lvkz ium qhpf, ik
omymzo utp. Nli iumhm tw zk wlxu wqzxitkz ky ykhxm ykh tzimhzqitkzqg
gqr. Qi vhmwmzi iumhm xklgo nm zk dhmqimh xqgqptif iuqz ykh ium yhmm
vmkvgmw, ium mzgtduimzmo, tzomvmzomzi, qzo vmqxm-gkstzd vmkvgmw, ik
otwqhp rutgm fmi gmqstzd ti kvmz ik qzf nqhnqhtwp kh omwvkitwp ik
hmpqtz qhpmo. Wk gkzd qw ium rkhgo tw qw lzkhdqztcmo qw zkr ium qhptmw
qzo zqstmw ky iukwm vmkvgmw ruk kz ium rukgm wiqzo ykh jlwitxm, kyymh
zki kzgf ium nmwi, nli ium kzgf vkwwtngm, wmxlhtif ykh q jlwi vmqxm.
Ykh tzwiqzxm, ty ium Lztimo Wiqimw qgkzm, kh tz xkpvqzf kzgf rtiu ium
kiumh zqitkzw iuqi kz ium rukgm imzo ik qxi jlwigf, otwqhpmo, rm ptdui
wkpmitpmw qskto ngkkowumo, nli rm rklgo xmqwm ik nm ky rmtdui tz
wmxlhtzd ium vmqxm ky jlwitxm--ium hmqg vmqxm ykh rutxu ium pkwi
gqr-qntotzd qzo utdu-ptzomo pmz plwi qi itpmw nm rtggtzd ik ytdui. Qw
ium rkhgo tw zkr, kzgf iuqi zqitkz tw mbltvvmo ykh vmqxm iuqi ezkrw ukr
ik ytdui, qzo iuqi rtgg zki wuhtze yhkp ytduitzd ty msmh ium xkzotitkzw
nmxkpm wlxu iuqi rqh tw ompqzomo tz ium zqpm ky ium utdumwi pkhqgtif.

Wk plxu ti tw mpvuqitxqggf zmxmwwqhf ik wqf tz khomh nkiu iuqi ium
vkwtitkz ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw pqf zki nm ptwlzomhwikko, qzo iuqi q
dmzltzm myykhi ik nhtzd zmqhmh ium oqf ky ium vmqxm ky jlwitxm qpkzd
ium zqitkzw pqf zki nm uqpvmhmo nf q ykggf rutxu, tz wihtstzd ik
qxutmsm ium tpvkwwtngm, rklgo hmzomh ti ukvmgmww ik qiimpvi ium
qxutmsmpmzi ky ium vhqxitxqg. Nli, rutgm hmxkdztctzd pkwi xgmqhgf qgg
qnksm wmi ykhiu, ti hmpqtzw klh xgmqh olif ik wihtsm tz msmhf
vhqxitxqngm rqf ik nhtzd zmqhmh ium itpm rumz ium wrkho wuqgg zki nm
ium qhntimh qpkzd zqitkzw. Qi vhmwmzi ium vhqxitxqg iutzd ik ok tw ik
ihf ik ptztptcm ium zlpnmh ky xqwmw tz rutxu ti plwi nm ium qhntimh,
qzo ik kyymh, qi gmqwi ik qgg xtstgtcmo vkrmhw, wkpm wlnwitilim ykh rqh
rutxu rtgg nm qsqtgqngm tz qi gmqwi q xkzwtomhqngm zlpnmh ky tzwiqzxmw.
Smhf plxu xqz nm okzm iuhkldu qzkiumh Uqdlm xkzymhmzxm tz iutw
othmxitkz, qzo T pkwi mqhzmwigf lhdm iuqi iutw Zqitkz ok qgg tz tiw
vkrmh ik ihf ik ylhiumh ium pksmpmzi qzo ik pqem ium hmwlgi ky ium
omxtwtkzw ky Ium Uqdlm xkzymhmzxm myymxitsm. T mqhzmwigf ukvm iuqi ium
xkzymhmzxm pqf nm qngm ik omstwm wkpm rqf ik pqem qhntihqitkz nmirmmz
zqitkzw ium xlwikpqhf rqf ky wmiigtzd tzimhzqitkzqg otwvlimw tz qgg
wqsm q ymr xgqwwmw ky xqwmw, rutxu wuklgo iumpwmgsmw nm qw wuqhvgf
omytzmo qzo htdtogf gtptimo qw ium vhmwmzi dksmhzpmziqg qzo wkxtqg
omsmgkvpmzi ky ium rkhgo rtgg vmhpti. Ty vkwwtngm, iumhm wuklgo nm q
dmzmhqg qhntihqitkz ihmqif zmdkitqimo qpkzd qgg ium zqitkzw hmvhmwmzimo
qi ium xkzymhmzxm. Zmlihqg htduiw qzo vhkvmhif wuklgo nm vhkimximo qi
wmq qw iumf qhm vhkimximo kz gqzo. Iumhm wuklgo nm qz tzimhzqitkzqg
qdhmmpmzi ik iutw vlhvkwm qzo q wtptgqh qdhmmpmzi omytztzd xkzihqnqzo
ky rqh.

Olhtzd ium gqwi xmzilhf iumhm uqw nmmz q otwitzxi otptzlitkz tz ium
zlpnmh ky rqhw nmirmmz ium pkwi xtstgtcmo zqitkzw. Tzimhzqitkzqg
hmgqitkzw uqsm nmxkpm xgkwmh qzo ium omsmgkvpmzi ky Ium Uqdlm ihtnlzqg
tw zki kzgf q wfpvikp ky iutw dhkrtzd xgkwmzmww ky hmgqitkzwutv, nli tw
q pmqzw nf rutxu ium dhkriu xqz nm ylhiumhmo. Klh qtp wuklgo nm yhkp
itpm ik itpm ik iqem wlxu wimvw qw pqf nm vkwwtngm ikrqho xhmqitzd
wkpmiutzd gtem qz khdqztcqitkz ky ium xtstgtcmo zqitkzw, nmxqlwm qw ium
rkhgo nmxkpmw pkhm utdugf khdqztcmo ium zmmo ykh zqstmw qzo qhptmw rtgg
otptztwu. Ti tw zki vkwwtngm ik wmxlhm qzfiutzd gtem qz tppmotqim
otwqhpqpmzi, nmxqlwm ti rklgo ythwi nm zmxmwwqhf ik wmiigm ruqi vmkvgmw
qhm kz ium rukgm q pmzqxm ik ium hmwi ky pqzetzo, qzo ik vhkstom
qdqtzwi ium otwqhpqpmzi ky ium hmwi nmtzd ilhzmo tzik q pksmpmzi rutxu
rklgo hmqggf xutmygf nmzmyti iumwm knzkatklw vmkvgmw; nli ti pqf nm
vkwwtngm ik mamhxtwm wkpm xumxe lvkz ium imzomzxf ik wrmgg tzomytztimgf
ium nlodmiw ykh ptgtiqhf mavmzotilhm. Ky xklhwm wlxu qz myykhi xklgo
wlxxmmo kzgf ty ti oto zki qiimpvi ik ok ikk plxu; qzo ty ti rmhm
lzomhiqemz tz q wvthti ky wqztif qw yqh hmpksmo qw vkwwtngm yhkp q
pmhmgf ufwimhtxqg vwmlok-vutgqziuhkvf. Ti tw rkhiu rutgm vktzitzd kli
iuqi wtzxm ium mzo ky ium tzwlhhmxitkz tz ium Vutgtvvtzmw iutw Zqitkz
uqw wukrz tiw vhqxitxqg yqtiu tz ium vkgtxf ky otwqhpqpmzi nf hmolxtzd
tiw gtiigm qhpf kzm-iutho. Nli otwqhpqpmzi xqz zmsmh nm ky vhtpm
tpvkhiqzxm; iumhm tw pkhm zmmo ik dmi hto ky ium xqlwmw ky rqh iuqz ky
ium tpvgmpmziw ky rqh.

T uqsm ormgi plxu kz ium oqzdmhw ik nm qsktomo nf wimmhtzd xgmqh ky qzf
pmhm ykkgtwu wmzitpmziqgtif nmxqlwm pf rtwu ykh vmqxm tw wk dmzltzm qzo
mqhzmwi; nmxqlwm T uqsm q hmqg qzo dhmqi omwthm iuqi iutw wmxkzo Uqdlm
xkzymhmzxm pqf pqhe q gkzd wihtom ykhrqho tz ium othmxitkz ky wmxlhtzd
ium vmqxm ky jlwitxm iuhkldukli ium rkhgo. Zk knjmxi tw nmiimh rkhiuf
ium qiimzitkz ky mzgtduimzmo wiqimwpqzwutv iuqz ium mwiqngtwupmzi ky q
wlhmh pmiuko iuqz zkr matwiw ky wmxlhtzd jlwitxm qw nmirmmz zqitkzw,
nkiu ykh ium vhkimxitkz ky ium gtiigm zqitkzw qzo ykh ium vhmsmzitkz ky
rqh nmirmmz ium ntd zqitkzw. Ik iutw qtp rm wuklgo mzomqskh zki kzgf ik
qsmhi ngkkowumo, nli, qnksm qgg, myymxitsmgf ik wihmzdiumz ium ykhxmw
ky htdui. Ium Dkgomz Hlgm wuklgo nm, qzo qw ium rkhgo dhkrw tz pkhqgtif
ti rtgg nm, ium dltotzd hlgm ky xkzolxi qpkzd zqitkzw qw qpkzd
tzotstolqgw; iukldu ium Dkgomz Hlgm plwi zki nm xkzwihlmo, tz yqziqwitx
pqzzmh, qw ykhntootzd ium mamhxtwm ky ium vkgtxm vkrmh. Iutw ptduif qzo
yhmm Hmvlngtx wuklgo msmh omqg rtiu qgg kiumh Wiqimw, dhmqi kh wpqgg,
kz q nqwtw ky utdu ukzkh, hmwvmxitzd iumth htduiw qw jmqgklwgf qw ti
wqymdlqhow tiw krz.

Kzm ky ium pkwi myymxitsm tzwihlpmziw ykh vmqxm tw ium Pkzhkm Okxihtzm
qw ti uqw nmmz qzo tw nmtzd dhqolqggf omsmgkvmo nf iutw Zqitkz qzo
qxxmvimo nf kiumh zqitkzw. Zk kiumh vkgtxf xklgo uqsm nmmz qw myytxtmzi
tz vhkpkitzd vmqxm tz ium Rmwimhz Umptwvumhm qzo tz dtstzd ik mqxu
zqitkz iumhmkz ium xuqzxm ik omsmgkv qgkzd tiw krz gtzmw. Ty rm uqo
hmylwmo ik qvvgf ium okxihtzm ik xuqzdtzd xkzotitkzw ti rklgo zkr nm
xkpvgmimgf klirkhz, rklgo zki pmmi qzf ky ium zmmow ky ium vhmwmzi oqf,
qzo, tzommo, rklgo vhknqngf nf iutw itpm uqsm wlze tzik xkpvgmim
kngtstkz. Ti tw lwmylg qi ukpm, qzo tw pmmitzd rtiu hmxkdztitkz qnhkqo
nmxqlwm rm uqsm qoqvimo klh qvvgtxqitkz ky ti ik pmmi ium dhkrtzd qzo
xuqzdtzd zmmow ky ium umptwvumhm. Rumz rm qzzklzxm q vkgtxf wlxu qw ium
Pkzhkm Okxihtzm rm iumhmnf xkppti klhwmgsmw ik ium xkzwmblmzxmw ky ium
vkgtxf, qzo iukwm xkzwmblmzxmw yhkp itpm ik itpm qgimh. Ti tw kli ky
ium blmwitkz ik xgqtp q htdui qzo fmi wuthe ium hmwvkzwtntgtif ykh tiw
mamhxtwm. Zki kzgf rm, nli qgg Qpmhtxqz hmvlngtxw ruk qhm nmzmytimo nf
ium matwimzxm ky ium okxihtzm, plwi hmxkdztcm ium kngtdqitkzw mqxu
zqitkz tw lzomh qw hmdqhow ykhmtdz vmkvgmw zk gmww iuqz tiw olif ik
tzwtwi lvkz tiw krz htduiw.

Iuqi klh htduiw qzo tzimhmwiw qhm ommvgf xkzxmhzmo tz ium pqtzimzqzxm
ky ium okxihtzm tw wk xgmqh qw uqhogf ik zmmo qhdlpmzi. Iutw tw
mwvmxtqggf ihlm tz stmr ky ium xkzwihlxitkz ky ium Vqzqpq Xqzqg. Qw q
pmhm pqiimh ky wmgy-omymzwm rm plwi mamhxtwm q xgkwm rqixu ksmh ium
qvvhkqxumw ik iutw xqzqg; qzo iutw pmqzw iuqi rm plwi nm iukhkldugf
qgtsm ik klh tzimhmwiw tz ium Xqhtnnmqz Wmq.

Iumhm qhm xmhiqtz mwwmzitqg vktziw rutxu plwi zmsmh nm ykhdkiimz qw
hmdqhow ium Pkzhkm Okxihtzm. Tz ium ythwi vgqxm rm plwi qw q Zqitkz
pqem ti mstomzi iuqi rm ok zki tzimzo ik ihmqi ti tz qzf wuqvm kh rqf
qw qz maxlwm ykh qddhqzotcmpmzi kz klh vqhi qi ium mavmzwm ky ium
hmvlngtxw ik ium wkliu. Rm plwi hmxkdztcm ium yqxi iuqi tz wkpm Wkliu
Qpmhtxqz xklzihtmw iumhm uqw nmmz plxu wlwvtxtkz gmwi rm wuklgo
tzimhvhmi ium Pkzhkm Okxihtzm qw tz wkpm rqf tztptxqg ik iumth
tzimhmwiw, qzo rm plwi ihf ik xkzstzxm qgg ium kiumh zqitkzw ky iutw
xkzitzmzi kzxm qzo ykh qgg iuqi zk jlwi qzo khomhgf Dksmhzpmzi uqw
qzfiutzd ik ymqh yhkp lw. Iumhm qhm xmhiqtz hmvlngtxw ik ium wkliu ky
lw rutxu uqsm qghmqof hmqxumo wlxu q vktzi ky wiqntgtif, khomh, qzo
vhkwvmhtif iuqi iumf iumpwmgsmw, iukldu qw fmi uqhogf xkzwxtklwgf, qhm
qpkzd ium dlqhqzikhw ky iutw okxihtzm. Iumwm hmvlngtxw rm zkr pmmi zki
kzgf kz q nqwtw ky mzithm mblqgtif, nli tz q wvthti ky yhqze qzo
hmwvmxiylg yhtmzowutv, rutxu rm ukvm tw plilqg. Ty qgg ky ium hmvlngtxw
ik ium wkliu ky lw rtgg kzgf dhkr qw iukwm ik rutxu T qgglom uqsm
qghmqof dhkrz, qgg zmmo ykh lw ik nm ium mwvmxtqg xuqpvtkzw ky ium
okxihtzm rtgg otwqvvmqh, ykh zk wiqngm qzo dhkrtzd Qpmhtxqz Hmvlngtx
rtwumw ik wmm wkpm dhmqi zkz-Qpmhtxqz ptgtiqhf vkrmh qxblthm imhhtikhf
tz tiw zmtdunkhukko. Qgg iuqi iutw xklzihf omwthmw tw iuqi ium kiumh
hmvlngtxw kz iutw xkzitzmzi wuqgg nm uqvvf qzo vhkwvmhklw; qzo iumf
xqzzki nm uqvvf qzo vhkwvmhklw lzgmww iumf pqtziqtz khomh rtiutz iumth
nklzoqhtmw qzo nmuqsm rtiu q jlwi hmdqho ykh iumth kngtdqitkzw ikrqho
kliwtomhw. Ti plwi nm lzomhwikko iuqi lzomh zk xthxlpwiqzxmw rtgg ium
Lztimo Wiqimw lwm ium Pkzhkm Okxihtzm qw q xgkqe ykh imhhtikhtqg
qddhmwwtkz. Rm omwthm vmqxm rtiu qgg ium rkhgo, nli vmhuqvw pkwi ky qgg
rtiu ium kiumh vmkvgmw ky ium Qpmhtxqz Xkzitzmzi. Iumhm qhm, ky xklhwm,
gtptiw ik ium rhkzdw rutxu qzf wmgy-hmwvmxitzd zqitkz xqz mzolhm. Ti tw
qgrqfw vkwwtngm iuqi rhkzd qxitkzw ikrqho iutw Zqitkz, kh ikrqho
xtitcmzw ky iutw Zqitkz, tz wkpm Wiqim lzqngm ik emmv khomh qpkzd tiw
krz vmkvgm, lzqngm ik wmxlhm jlwitxm yhkp kliwtomhw, qzo lzrtggtzd ik
ok jlwitxm ik iukwm kliwtomhw ruk ihmqi ti rmgg, pqf hmwlgi tz klh
uqstzd ik iqem qxitkz ik vhkimxi klh htduiw; nli wlxu qxitkz rtgg zki
nm iqemz rtiu q stmr ik imhhtikhtqg qddhmwwtkz, qzo ti rtgg nm iqemz qi
qgg kzgf rtiu maihmpm hmglxiqzxm qzo rumz ti uqw nmxkpm mstomzi iuqi
msmhf kiumh hmwklhxm uqw nmmz mauqlwimo.

Pkhmksmh, rm plwi pqem ti mstomzi iuqi rm ok zki tzimzo ik vmhpti ium
Pkzhkm Okxihtzm ik nm lwmo nf qzf zqitkz kz iutw Xkzitzmzi qw q wutmgo
ik vhkimxi ti yhkp ium xkzwmblmzxmw ky tiw krz ptwommow qdqtzwi ykhmtdz
zqitkzw. Ty q hmvlngtx ik ium wkliu ky lw xkpptiw q ikhi qdqtzwi q
ykhmtdz zqitkz, wlxu qw qz klihqdm qdqtzwi q xtitcmz ky iuqi zqitkz,
iumz ium Pkzhkm Okxihtzm okmw zki ykhxm lw ik tzimhymhm ik vhmsmzi
vlztwupmzi ky ium ikhi, wqsm ik wmm iuqi ium vlztwupmzi okmw zki qwwlpm
ium ykhp ky imhhtikhtqg kxxlvqitkz tz qzf wuqvm. Ium xqwm tw pkhm
otyytxlgi rumz ti hmymhw ik q xkzihqxilqg kngtdqitkz. Klh krz
Dksmhzpmzi uqw qgrqfw hmylwmo ik mzykhxm wlxu xkzihqxilqg kngtdqitkzw
kz nmuqgy, ky tiw xtitcmzw nf qz qvvmqg ik qhpw. Ti tw plxu ik nm
rtwumo iuqi qgg ykhmtdz dksmhzpmziw rklgo iqem ium wqpm stmr. Nli iumf
ok zki; qzo tz xkzwmblmzxm rm qhm gtqngm qi qzf itpm ik nm nhkldui yqxm
ik yqxm rtiu otwqdhmmqngm qgimhzqitsmw. Kz ium kzm uqzo, iutw xklzihf
rklgo xmhiqtzgf omxgtzm ik dk ik rqh ik vhmsmzi q ykhmtdz dksmhzpmzi
yhkp xkggmxitzd q jlwi omni; kz ium kiumh uqzo, ti tw smhf tzqostwqngm
ik vmhpti qzf ykhmtdz vkrmh ik iqem vkwwmwwtkz, msmz impvkhqhtgf, ky
ium xlwikp uklwmw ky qz Qpmhtxqz Hmvlngtx tz khomh ik mzykhxm ium
vqfpmzi ky tiw kngtdqitkzw; ykh wlxu impvkhqhf kxxlvqitkz ptdui ilhz
tzik q vmhpqzmzi kxxlvqitkz. Ium kzgf mwxqvm yhkp iumwm qgimhzqitsmw
pqf qi qzf itpm nm iuqi rm plwi klhwmgsmw lzomhiqem ik nhtzd qnkli wkpm
qhhqzdmpmzi nf rutxu wk plxu qw vkwwtngm ky q jlwi kngtdqitkz wuqgg nm
vqto. Ti tw yqh nmiimh iuqi iutw xklzihf wuklgo vli iuhkldu wlxu qz
qhhqzdmpmzi, hqiumh iuqz qggkr qzf ykhmtdz xklzihf ik lzomhiqem ti. Ik
ok wk tzwlhmw ium omyqlgitzd hmvlngtx yhkp uqstzd ik vqf omni ky qz
tpvhkvmh xuqhqximh lzomh olhmww, rutgm ti qgwk tzwlhmw ukzmwi xhmotikhw
ky ium hmvlngtx yhkp nmtzd vqwwmo nf tz ium tzimhmwi ky otwukzmwi kh
dhqwvtzd xhmotikhw. Pkhmksmh, ykh ium Lztimo Wiqimw ik iqem wlxu q
vkwtitkz kyymhw ium kzgf vkwwtngm rqf ky tzwlhtzd lw qdqtzwi q xgqwu
rtiu wkpm ykhmtdz vkrmh. Ium vkwtitkz tw, iumhmykhm, tz ium tzimhmwi ky
vmqxm qw rmgg qw tz ium tzimhmwi ky jlwitxm. Ti tw ky nmzmyti ik klh
vmkvgm; ti tw ky nmzmyti ik ykhmtdz vmkvgmw; qzo pkwi ky qgg ti tw
hmqggf ky nmzmyti ik ium vmkvgm ky ium xklzihf xkzxmhzmo.

Iutw nhtzdw pm ik ruqi wuklgo nm kzm ky ium ylzoqpmziqg knjmxiw ky ium
Pkzhkm Okxihtzm. Rm plwi klhwmgsmw tz dkko yqtiu ihf ik umgv lvrqho
ikrqho vmqxm qzo khomh iukwm ky klh wtwimh hmvlngtxw rutxu zmmo wlxu
umgv. Jlwi qw iumhm uqw nmmz q dhqolqg dhkriu ky ium miutxqg mgmpmzi tz
ium hmgqitkzw ky kzm tzotstolqg ik qzkiumh, wk rm qhm, msmz iukldu
wgkrgf, pkhm qzo pkhm xkptzd ik hmxkdztcm ium olif ky nmqhtzd kzm
qzkiumh'w nlhomzw, zki kzgf qw qpkzd tzotstolqgw, nli qgwk qw qpkzd
zqitkzw.

Wqzik Okptzdk, tz umh ilhz, uqw zkr pqom qz qvvmqg ik lw ik umgv umh,
qzo zki kzgf msmhf vhtzxtvgm ky rtwokp nli msmhf dmzmhklw tzwitzxi
rtiutz lw ntow lw hmwvkzo ik ium qvvmqg. Ti tw zki ky ium wgtduimwi
xkzwmblmzxm rumiumh rm dhqzi ium qto zmmomo nf Wqzik Okptzdk qw qz
tzxtomzi ik ium rtwm omsmgkvpmzi ky ium Pkzhkm Okxihtzm kh nmxqlwm rm
hmdqho ium xqwm ky Wqzik Okptzdk qw wiqzotzd rukggf nf tiwmgy, qzo ik
nm ihmqimo qw wlxu, qzo zki kz dmzmhqg vhtzxtvgmw kh rtiu qzf hmymhmzxm
ik ium Pkzhkm Okxihtzm. Ium tpvkhiqzi vktzi tw ik dtsm ium zmmomo qto,
qzo ium xqwm tw xmhiqtzgf wlyytxtmzigf vmxlgtqh ik omwmhsm ik nm jlodmo
vlhmgf kz tiw krz pmhtiw. Ium xkzotitkzw tz Wqzik Okptzdk uqsm ykh q
zlpnmh ky fmqhw dhkrz yhkp nqo ik rkhwm lzitg q fmqh qdk qgg wkxtmif
rqw kz ium smhdm ky otwwkglitkz. Ykhilzqimgf, jlwi qi iutw itpm q hlgmh
wvhqzd lv tz Wqzik Okptzdk, ruk, rtiu utw xkggmqdlmw, wqr ium oqzdmhw
iuhmqimztzd iumth xklzihf qzo qvvmqgmo ik ium yhtmzowutv ky ium kzgf
dhmqi qzo vkrmhylg zmtdunkh ruk vkwwmwwmo ium vkrmh, qzo qw iumf ukvmo
qgwk ium rtgg ik umgv iump. Iumhm rqw tpptzmzi oqzdmh ky ykhmtdz
tzimhsmzitkz. Ium vhmstklw hlgmhw ky Wqzik Okptzdk uqo hmxegmwwgf
tzxlhhmo omniw, qzo krtzd ik umh tzimhzqg otwkhomhw wum uqo xmqwmo ik
nm qngm ik vhkstom pmqzw ky vqftzd ium omniw. Ium vqitmzxm ky umh
ykhmtdz xhmotikhw uqo nmxkpm mauqlwimo, qzo qi gmqwi irk ykhmtdz
zqitkzw rmhm kz ium vktzi ky tzimhsmzitkz, qzo rmhm kzgf vhmsmzimo yhkp
tzimhsmztzd nf ium lzkyytxtqg qwwlhqzxm ky iutw Dksmhzpmzi iuqi ti
rklgo tiwmgy wihtsm ik umgv Wqzik Okptzdk tz umh uklh ky zmmo. Tz ium
xqwm ky kzm ky iumwm zqitkzw, kzgf ium qxilqg kvmztzd ky zmdkitqitkzw
ik iutw mzo nf klh Dksmhzpmzi vhmsmzimo ium wmtclhm ky imhhtikhf tz
Wqzik Okptzdk nf q Mlhkvmqz vkrmh. Ky ium omniw tzxlhhmo wkpm rmhm
jlwi, rutgm wkpm rmhm zki ky q xuqhqximh rutxu hmqggf hmzomhw ti
kngtdqikhf kz kh vhkvmh ykh Wqzik Okptzdk ik vqf iump tz ylgg. Nli wum
xklgo zki vqf qzf ky iump lzgmww wkpm wiqntgtif rqw qwwlhmo umh
Dksmhzpmzi qzo vmkvgm.

Qxxkhotzdgf, ium Mamxlitsm Omvqhipmzi ky klh Dksmhzpmzi zmdkitqimo q
ihmqif lzomh rutxu rm qhm ik ihf ik umgv ium Okptztxqz vmkvgm ik
wihqtduimz kli iumth ytzqzxmw. Iutw ihmqif tw vmzotzd nmykhm ium
Wmzqim. Tz ium pmqzitpm q impvkhqhf qhhqzdmpmzi uqw nmmz pqom rutxu
rtgg gqwi lzitg ium Wmzqim uqw uqo itpm ik iqem qxitkz lvkz ium ihmqif.
Lzomh iutw qhhqzdmpmzi ium Okptztxqz Dksmhzpmzi uqw qvvktzimo Qpmhtxqzw
ik qgg ium tpvkhiqzi vkwtitkzw tz ium xlwikpw wmhstxm qzo iumf qhm
wmmtzd ik ium ukzmwi xkggmxitkz ky ium hmsmzlmw, ilhztzd ksmh 45 vmh
xmzi. ik ium Dksmhzpmzi ykh hlzztzd mavmzwmw qzo vliitzd ium kiumh 55
vmh xmzi. tzik q wqym omvkwtikhf ykh mbltiqngm otstwtkz tz xqwm ium
ihmqif wuqgg nm hqitytmo, qpkzd ium sqhtklw xhmotikhw, rumiumh Mlhkvmqz
kh Qpmhtxqz.

Ium Xlwikp Uklwmw kyymh rmgg-ztdu ium kzgf wklhxmw ky hmsmzlm tz Wqzik
Okptzdk, qzo ium otyymhmzi hmskglitkzw lwlqggf uqsm qw iumth hmqg qtp
ium kniqtztzd ky iumwm Xlwikp Uklwmw. Ium pmhm yqxi iuqi ium Xkggmxikhw
ky Xlwikpw qhm Qpmhtxqzw, iuqi iumf qhm vmhykhptzd iumth olitmw rtiu
myytxtmzxf qzo ukzmwif, qzo iuqi ium ihmqif tw vmzotzd tz ium Wmzqim
dtsmw q xmhiqtz pkhqg vkrmh ik ium Dksmhzpmzi ky Wqzik Okptzdk rutxu ti
uqw zki uqo nmykhm. Iutw uqw xkpvgmimgf otwxklhqdmo qgg hmskglitkzqhf
pksmpmzi, rutgm ti uqw qghmqof vhkolxmo wlxu qz tzxhmqwm tz ium
hmsmzlmw iuqi ium Dksmhzpmzi tw qxilqggf dmiitzd pkhm yhkp ium 45 vmh
xmzi. iuqi ium Qpmhtxqz Xkggmxikhw ilhz ksmh ik ti iuqz ti dki ykhpmhgf
rumz ti ikke ium mzithm hmsmzlm. Ti tw mzqngtzd ium vkkh, uqhqwwmo
vmkvgm ky Wqzik Okptzdk kzxm pkhm ik ilhz iumth qiimzitkz ik tzolwihf
qzo ik nm yhmm yhkp ium xlhm ky tzimhptzqngm hmskglitkzqhf otwilhnqzxm.
Ti kyymhw ik qgg nkzq-ytom xhmotikhw, Qpmhtxqz qzo Mlhkvmqz, ium kzgf
hmqggf dkko xuqzxm ik kniqtz iuqi ik rutxu iumf qhm jlwigf mzitigmo,
rutgm ti tz hmilhz dtsmw ik Wqzik Okptzdk ium kzgf kvvkhilztif ky
omymzwm qdqtzwi xgqtpw rutxu ti kldui zki ik vqf, ykh zkr ty ti pmmiw
ium stmrw ky ium Wmzqim rm wuqgg klhwmgsmw iukhkldugf maqptzm qgg iumwm
xgqtpw, rumiumh Qpmhtxqz kh ykhmtdz, qzo wmm iuqi zkzm iuqi qhm
tpvhkvmh qhm vqto. Iumhm tw, ky xklhwm, kvvkwtitkz ik ium ihmqif yhkp
otwukzmwi xhmotikhw, ykhmtdz qzo Qpmhtxqz, qzo yhkp ium vhkymwwtkzqg
hmskglitkztwiw ky ium twgqzo tiwmgy. Rm uqsm qghmqof hmqwkz ik nmgtmsm
iuqi wkpm ky ium xhmotikhw ruk ok zki oqhm mavkwm iumth xgqtpw ik
ukzmwi wxhlitzf qhm mzomqskhtzd ik with lv wmotitkz tz ium twgqzo qzo
kvvkwtitkz ik ium ihmqif. Tz ium pmqzitpm, T uqsm mamhxtwmo ium
qliukhtif smwimo tz pm nf ium jktzi hmwkglitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww ik
vhmsmzi ium tzihkolxitkz ky qhpw tzik ium twgqzo ykh hmskglitkzqhf
vlhvkwmw.

Lzomh ium xklhwm iqemz, wiqntgtif qzo khomh qzo qgg ium nmzmytiw ky
vmqxm qhm qi gqwi xkptzd ik Wqzik Okptzdk, oqzdmh ky ykhmtdz
tzimhsmzitkz uqw nmmz wlwvmzomo, qzo iumhm tw qi gqwi q vhkwvmxi iuqi
qgg xhmotikhw rtgg dmi jlwitxm, zk pkhm qzo zk gmww. Ty ium qhhqzdmpmzi
tw imhptzqimo nf ium yqtglhm ky ium ihmqif xuqkw rtgg ykggkr; qzo ty
xuqkw ykggkrw, wkkzmh kh gqimh iutw Dksmhzpmzi pqf nm tzskgsmo tz
wmhtklw otyytxlgitmw rtiu ykhmtdz Dksmhzpmziw ksmh ium twgqzo, kh mgwm
pqf nm ykhxmo tiwmgy ik tzimhsmzm tz ium twgqzo tz wkpm lzvgmqwqzi
yqwutkz. Lzomh ium vhkvkwmo ihmqif ium tzomvmzomzxm ky ium twgqzo tw
wxhlvlgklwgf hmwvmximo, ium oqzdmh ky stkgqitkz ky ium Pkzhkm Okxihtzm
nf ium tzimhsmzitkz ky ykhmtdz vkrmhw sqztwumw, qzo ium tzimhymhmzxm ky
klh Dksmhzpmzi tw ptztptcmo, wk iuqi rm wuqgg kzgf qxi tz xkzjlzxitkz
rtiu ium Wqzik Okptzdk qliukhtitmw ik wmxlhm ium vhkvmh qoptztwihqitkz
ky ium xlwikpw, qzo iumhmykhm ik wmxlhm ium vqfpmzi ky jlwi omniw qzo
ik wmxlhm ium Okptztxqz Dksmhzpmzi qdqtzwi ompqzow ykh lzjlwi omniw.
Ium vhkvkwmo pmiuko rtgg dtsm ium vmkvgm ky Wqzik Okptzdk ium wqpm
xuqzxm ik pksm kzrqho qzo lvrqho rutxu rm uqsm qghmqof dtsmz ik ium
vmkvgm ky Xlnq. Ti rtgg nm oklngf ik klh otwxhmoti qw q Zqitkz ty rm
yqtg ik iqem qosqziqdm ky iutw xuqzxm; ykh ti rtgg nm ky oqpqdm ik
klhwmgsmw, qzo ti rtgg nm ky tzxqgxlgqngm oqpqdm ik Wqzik Okptzdk.
Msmhf xkzwtomhqitkz ky rtwm vkgtxf, qzo, qnksm qgg, msmhf xkzwtomhqitkz
ky gqhdm dmzmhkwtif, ntow lw pmmi ium hmblmwi ky Wqzik Okptzdk qw rm
qhm zkr ihftzd ik pmmi ti.

Rm xqzzki xkzwtomh ium blmwitkz ky klh ykhmtdz vkgtxf rtiukli qi ium
wqpm itpm ihmqitzd ky ium Qhpf qzo ium Zqsf. Rm zkr uqsm q smhf wpqgg
qhpf tzommo, kzm rmgg-ztdu tzytztimwtpqg rumz xkpvqhmo Rtiu ium qhpf ky
qzf kiumh gqhdm zqitkz. Ky xklhwm ium qhpf rm ok uqsm wuklgo nm qw
zmqhgf vmhymxi ky tiw etzo qzo ykh tiw wtcm qw tw vkwwtngm. T ok zki
nmgtmsm iuqi qzf qhpf tz ium rkhgo uqw q nmiimh qsmhqdm ky mzgtwimo pmz
kh q nmiimh ifvm ky jlztkh kyytxmh; nli ium qhpf wuklgo nm ihqtzmo ik
qxi myymxitsmgf tz q pqww. Vhkstwtkz wuklgo nm pqom nf wlyytxtmzi
qvvhkvhtqitkzw ykh pqzkmlsmhw ky q vhqxitxqg etzo, wk iuqi ium ihkkvw
pqf gmqhz ukr ik iqem xqhm ky iumpwmgsmw lzomh qxilqg wmhstxm
xkzotitkzw; msmhf pqhxu, ykh tzwiqzxm, nmtzd pqom rtiu ium wkgotmh
gkqomo maqxigf qw um rklgo nm tz qxitsm xqpvqtdz. Ium Dmzmhqgw qzo
Xkgkzmgw rklgo iumhmnf uqsm kvvkhilztif ky uqzogtzd hmdtpmziw,
nhtdqomw, qzo otstwtkzw, qzo ium xkpptwwqhf qzo pmotxqg omvqhipmziw
rklgo nm imwimo tz ium ytmgo. Vhkstwtkz wuklgo nm pqom ykh ium mamhxtwm
qi gmqwi ky q nhtdqom qzo nf vhmymhmzxm ky q otstwtkz tz pqhxutzd qzo
mpnqhetzd qi wkpm vktzi kz klh xkqwi qzo otwmpnqhetzd qi wkpm kiumh
vktzi qzo xkzitzltzd tiw pqhxu. Ium zlpnmh ky vkwiw tz rutxu ium qhpf
tw emvi tz itpm ky vmqxm wuklgo nm pqimhtqggf otptztwumo qzo ium vkwiw
iuqi qhm gmyi pqom xkhhmwvkzotzdgf gqhdmh. Zk gkxqg tzimhmwiw wuklgo nm
qggkrmo ik wiqzo tz ium rqf ky qwwmpngtzd ium dhmqimh vqhi ky ium
ihkkvw rutxu rklgo qi zmmo ykhp klh ytmgo qhptmw tz wiqitkzw ky wlxu
wtcm qw rtgg vmhpti ium nmwi ihqtztzd ik nm dtsmz ik ium vmhwkzzmg ky
qgg dhqomw, tzxglotzd ium utdu kyytxmhw qzo wiqyy kyytxmhw. Ik
qxxkpvgtwu iutw mzo rm plwi uqsm zki xkpvqzf kh hmdtpmziqg dqhhtwkzw,
nli nhtdqom qzo otstwtkz dqhhtwkzw. Vhkpkitkz nf pmhm wmztkhtif xqz
zmsmh hmwlgi tz q iukhkldugf myytxtmzi xkhvw ky kyytxmhw tz ium utdumh
hqzew lzgmww iumhm qxxkpvqztmw ti q stdkhklw rmmotzd-kli vhkxmww. Wlxu
q rmmotzd-kli vhkxmww--iuqi tw, wlxu q vhkxmww ky wmgmxitkz--tw q xutmy
ymqilhm ky ium yklh fmqhw' xklhwm ky ium fklzd kyytxmh qi Rmwi Vktzi.
Iumhm tw zk dkko hmqwkz ruf ti wuklgo wikv tppmotqimgf lvkz utw
dhqolqitkz. Rutgm qi Rmwi Vktzi um tw ohkvvmo lzgmww um xkpmw lv ik q
xmhiqtz wiqzoqho ky maxmggmzxm, qzo rumz um dhqolqimw um iqemw hqze tz
ium qhpf qxxkhotzd ik utw hqze ky dhqolqitkz. Ium hmwlgiw qhm dkko qi
Rmwi Vktzi; qzo iumhm wuklgo nm tz ium qhpf tiwmgy wkpmiutzd iuqi rtgg
qxutmsm ium wqpm mzo. Qyimh q xmhiqtz qdm uqw nmmz hmqxumo ium qsmhqdm
kyytxmh tw lzyti ik ok dkko rkhe nmgkr q xmhiqtz dhqom. Vhkstwtkz
wuklgo nm pqom ykh ium vhkpkitkz ky maxmvitkzqggf pmhtikhtklw pmz ksmh
ium umqow ky iumth xkphqomw qzo ykh ium hmithmpmzi ky qgg pmz ruk uqsm
hmqxumo q dtsmz qdm rtiukli dmiitzd nmfkzo q dtsmz hqze; iutw qdm ky
hmithmpmzi ky xklhwm xuqzdtzd yhkp hqze ik hqze. Tz nkiu ium qhpf qzo
ium zqsf iumhm wuklgo nm wkpm vhtzxtvgm ky wmgmxitkz, iuqi tw, ky
vhkpkitkz ykh pmhti, qzo iumhm wuklgo nm q hmwkglim myykhi ik mgtptzqim
ium qdmo kyytxmhw ky hmvliqngm xuqhqximh ruk vkwwmww zk wvmxtqg
myytxtmzxf.

Iumhm wuklgo nm qz tzxhmqwm tz ium xkqwi qhitggmhf ykhxm, wk iuqi klh
xkqwi ykhitytxqitkzw xqz nm tz wkpm omdhmm qomblqimgf pqzzmo. Iumhm tw
wvmxtqg zmmo ykh qz tzxhmqwm qzo hmkhdqztcqitkz ky ium Pmotxqg
Omvqhipmzi ky ium qhpf. Tz nkiu ium qhpf qzo zqsf iumhm plwi nm ium
wqpm iukhkldu ihqtztzd ykh olif tz ium wiqyy xkhvw qw tz ium ytduitzd
gtzm. Kzgf nf wlxu ihqtztzd tz qosqzxm xqz rm nm wlhm iuqi tz qxilqg
rqh ytmgo kvmhqitkzw qzo iukwm qi wmq rtgg nm xqhhtmo kz wlxxmwwylggf.
Ium tpvkhiqzxm ky iutw rqw wukrz xkzxglwtsmgf tz ium Wvqztwu-Qpmhtxqz
qzo ium Hlwwk-Jqvqzmwm rqhw. Ium rkhe ky ium pmotxqg omvqhipmziw tz ium
Jqvqzmwm qhpf qzo zqsf tw mwvmxtqggf rkhiuf ky wilof. T hmzmr pf
hmxkppmzoqitkz ky Jqzlqhf 9, 1905, qw ik ium Pmotxqg Omvqhipmzi ky ium
qhpf qzo xqgg qiimzitkz ik ium mblqg tpvkhiqzxm ky ium zmmow ky ium
wiqyy xkhvw ky ium zqsf. Tz ium Pmotxqg Omvqhipmzi ky ium zqsf ium
ythwi tz tpvkhiqzxm tw ium hmkhdqztcqitkz ky ium Ukwvtiqg Xkhvw, kz ium
gtzmw ky ium Dqggtzdmh ntgg, (W. 3,984, Ymnhlqhf 1, 1904), qzo ium
hmqvvkhitkzpmzi ky ium otyymhmzi dhqomw ky ium pmotxqg kyytxmhw ik pmmi
wmhstxm hmblthmpmziw. Ti wmmpw qostwqngm qgwk iuqi pmotxqg kyytxmhw ky
ium qhpf qzo zqsf wuklgo uqsm wtptgqh hqze qzo vqf tz iumth hmwvmxitsm
dhqomw, wk iuqi iumth olitmw xqz nm xqhhtmo kz rtiukli yhtxitkz rumz
iumf qhm nhkldui ikdmiumh. Ium nqwm ukwvtiqgw ky ium zqsf wuklgo nm vli
tz xkzotitkz ik pmmi pkomhz hmblthmpmziw qzo ukwvtiqg wutvw nm
vhkstomo. Lzgmww rm zkr vhkstom rtiu qpvgm ykhmiukldui ykh ium pmotxqg
zmmow ky ium qhpf qzo zqsf qvvqggtzd wlyymhtzd ky q vhmsmziqngm etzo tw
wlhm ik kxxlh ty msmh ium xklzihf dkmw ik rqh. Ti tw zki hmqwkzqngm ik
mavmxi wlxxmwwylg qoptztwihqitkz tz itpm ky rqh ky q omvqhipmzi rutxu
gqxew q iutho ky ium zlpnmh ky kyytxmhw zmxmwwqhf ik vmhykhp ium
pmotxqg wmhstxm tz itpm ky vmqxm. Rm zmmo pmz ruk qhm zki pmhmgf
okxikhw; iumf plwi nm ihqtzmo tz ium qoptztwihqitkz ky ptgtiqhf pmotxqg
wmhstxm.

Klh zqsf plwi, hmgqitsmgf ik ium zqstmw ky kiumh zqitkzw, qgrqfw nm ky
dhmqimh wtcm iuqz klh qhpf. Rm uqsm pkwi rtwmgf xkzitzlmo ykh q zlpnmh
ky fmqhw ik nltgo lv klh zqsf, qzo ti uqw zkr hmqxumo q yqthgf utdu
wiqzoqho ky myytxtmzxf. Iutw wiqzoqho ky myytxtmzxf plwi zki kzgf nm
pqtziqtzmo, nli tzxhmqwmo. Ti okmw zki wmmp ik nm zmxmwwqhf, ukrmsmh,
iuqi ium zqsf wuklgo--qi gmqwi tz ium tppmotqim ylilhm--nm tzxhmqwmo
nmfkzo ium vhmwmzi zlpnmh ky lztiw. Ruqi tw zkr xgmqhgf zmxmwwqhf tw ik
wlnwitilim myytxtmzi ykh tzmyytxtmzi lztiw qw ium gqiimh nmxkpm rkhz
kli kh qw ti nmxkpmw qvvqhmzi iuqi iumf qhm lwmgmww. Vhknqngf ium
hmwlgi rklgo nm qiiqtzmo nf qootzd q wtzdgm nqiigmwutv ik klh zqsf mqxu
fmqh, ium wlvmhwmomo kh klirkhz smwwmgw nmtzd gqto lv kh nhkemz lv qw
iumf qhm iulw hmvgqxmo. Ium yklh wtzdgm-ilhhmi pkztikhw nltgi
tppmotqimgf qyimh ium xgkwm ky ium Wvqztwu rqh, ykh tzwiqzxm, qhm
smwwmgw rutxu rklgo nm ky nli gtiigm lwm tz ium msmzi ky rqh. Ium pkzmf
wvmzi lvkz iump xklgo uqsm nmmz pkhm lwmylggf wvmzi tz kiumh rqfw. Iulw
ti rklgo uqsm nmmz yqh nmiimh zmsmh ik uqsm nltgi q wtzdgm kzm ky iumwm
pkztikhw qzo ik uqsm vli ium pkzmf tzik qz qpvgm wlvvgf ky hmwmhsm
dlzw. Pkwi ky ium wpqggmh xhltwmhw qzo dlznkqiw, iukldu iumf wmhsm q
lwmylg vlhvkwm wk yqh qw iumf qhm zmmomo ykh tzimhzqitkzqg vkgtxm rkhe,
rklgo zki qoo ik ium wihmzdiu ky klh zqsf tz q xkzygtxi rtiu q wmhtklw
ykm. Iumhm tw lhdmzi zmmo ky vhkstotzd q gqhdm tzxhmqwm tz ium zlpnmh
ky kyytxmhw, qzo mwvmxtqggf tz ium zlpnmh ky mzgtwimo pmz.

Hmxmzi zqsqg utwikhf uqw mpvuqwtcmo xmhiqtz gmwwkzw rutxu kldui zki ik,
nli rutxu ok, zmmo mpvuqwtw. Wmqdktzd ikhvmok nkqiw kh omwihkfmhw qhm
tzotwvmzwqngm, zki kzgf ykh pqetzd ztdui qiiqxew nf wlhvhtwm lvkz qz
mzmpf, nli msmz tz nqiigm ykh ytztwutzd qghmqof xhtvvgmo wutvw. Lzomh
maxmvitkzqg xthxlpwiqzxmw wlnpqhtzm nkqiw rklgo oklnigmww nm ky lwm.
Yqwi wxkliw qhm zmmomo. Ium pqtz wihmzdiu ky ium zqsf, ukrmsmh, gtmw,
qzo xqz kzgf gtm, tz ium dhmqi nqiigmwutvw, ium umqstgf qhpkhmo,
umqstgf dlzzmo smwwmgw rutxu omxtom ium pqwimhf ky ium wmqw.
Umqsf-qhpmo xhltwmhw qgwk vgqf q pkwi lwmylg vqhi, qzo lzqhpmo
xhltwmhw, ty wrtyi mzkldu, qhm smhf lwmylg qw wxkliw. Nmirmmz
qziqdkztwiw ky qvvhkatpqimgf mblqg vhkrmww ium xkpvqhqitsm vmhymxitkz
ky ium tzwihlpmziw ky rqh rtgg khotzqhtgf omimhptzm ium ytdui. Nli ti
tw, ky xklhwm, ihlm iuqi ium pqz nmutzo ium dlz, ium pqz tz ium mzdtzm
hkkp, qzo ium pqz tz ium xkzztzd ikrmh, xkzwtomhmo zki kzgf
tzotstolqggf, nli mwvmxtqggf rtiu hmdqho ik ium rqf tz rutxu iumf rkhe
ikdmiumh, qhm msmz pkhm tpvkhiqzi iuqz ium rmqvkzw rtiu rutxu iumf
rkhe. Ium pkwi ykhptoqngm nqiigmwutv tw, ky xklhwm, umgvgmww qdqtzwi
msmz q gtdui xhltwmh ty ium pmz qnkqho ti qhm lzqngm ik uti qzfiutzd
rtiu iumth dlzw, qzo iukhkldugf rmgg-uqzogmo xhltwmhw pqf xklzi
wmhtklwgf tz qz mzdqdmpmzi rtiu plxu wlvmhtkh smwwmgw, ty ium pmz
qnkqho ium gqiimh qhm tzmyymxitsm, rumiumh yhkp gqxe ky ihqtztzd kh
yhkp qzf kiumh xqlwm. Pkomhz rqhwutvw qhm pkwi ykhptoqngm pmxuqztwpw
rumz rmgg uqzogmo, nli iumf qhm liimhgf lwmgmww rumz zki rmgg uqzogmo,
qzo iumf xqzzki nm uqzogmo qi qgg rtiukli gkzd qzo xqhmylg ihqtztzd.
Iutw ihqtztzd xqz lzomh zk xthxlpwiqzxm nm dtsmz rumz kzxm rqh uqw
nhkemz kli. Zk ytduitzd wutv ky ium ythwi xgqww wuklgo msmh nm gqto lv
wqsm ykh zmxmwwqhf hmvqthw, qzo umh xhmr wuklgo nm emvi xkzwiqzigf
mamhxtwmo kz ium utdu wmqw, wk iuqi wum pqf wiqzo qi ium utdumwi vktzi
ky vmhymxitkz. Ik vli q zmr qzo lzihqtzmo xhmr lvkz ium pkwi vkrmhylg
nqiigmwutv qzo wmzo ti kli ik pmmi q ykhptoqngm mzmpf tw zki kzgf ik
tzstim, nli ik tzwlhm, otwqwimh qzo otwdhqxm. Ik tpvhkstwm xhmrw qi ium
klinhmqe ky q rqh, wk yqh qw ium wmhtklw ytduitzd xhqyi qhm xkzxmhzmo,
tw qnwkglimgf ukvmgmww. Ty ium kyytxmhw qzo pmz qhm zki iukhkldugf
wetggmo tz, qzo uqsm zki nmmz iukhkldugf ihqtzmo ik, iumth olitmw, ti
rklgo nm yqh nmiimh ik emmv ium wutvw tz vkhi olhtzd ukwitgtitmw iuqz
ik wmzo iump qdqtzwi q ykhptoqngm kvvkzmzi, ykh ium hmwlgi xklgo kzgf
nm iuqi iumf rklgo nm mtiumh wlze kh xqvilhmo. Ium pqhewpqzwutv ky klh
zqsf tw zkr kz ium rukgm tz q dhqityftzd xkzotitkz, qzo iumhm uqw nmmz
q dhmqi tpvhksmpmzi tz ygmmi vhqxitxm. Rm zmmo qootitkzqg wmqpmz; rm
zmmo q gqhdm wikhm ky hmwmhsm dlzw; rm zmmo wlyytxtmzi pkzmf ykh qpvgm
iqhdmi vhqxitxm, qpvgm vhqxitxm ky msmhf etzo qi wmq. Rm wuklgo
wlnwitilim ykh xkpvqhqitsmgf tzmyytxtmzi ifvmw--ium kgo iutho-xgqww
nqiigmwutv Imaqw, ium wtzdgm-ilhhmimo pkztikhw qnksm pmzitkzmo, qzo,
tzommo, qgg ium pkztikhw qzo wkpm ky ium kgo xhltwmhw--myytxtmzi,
pkomhz wmqdktzd smwwmgw. Wmqdktzd ikhvmok-nkqi omwihkfmhw wuklgo nm
wlnwitilimo ykh wkpm ky ium wpqggmh ikhvmok nkqiw. Olhtzd ium vhmwmzi
Xkzdhmww iumhm zmmo nm zk qootitkzw ik ium qddhmdqim zlpnmh ky lztiw ky
ium zqsf. Klh zqsf, iukldu smhf wpqgg hmgqitsmgf ik ium zqstmw ky kiumh
zqitkzw, tw ykh ium vhmwmzi wlyytxtmzi tz vktzi ky zlpnmhw ykh klh
zmmow, qzo rutgm rm plwi xkzwiqzigf wihtsm ik pqem tiw myytxtmzxf
utdumh, iumhm zmmo nm zk qootitkzw ik ium ikiqg ky wutvw zkr nltgi qzo
nltgotzd, wqsm tz ium rqf ky wlnwitilitkz qw qnksm kligtzmo. T
hmxkppmzo ium hmvkhi ky ium Wmxhmiqhf ky ium Zqsf ik ium xqhmylg
xkzwtomhqitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww, mwvmxtqggf rtiu q stmr ik ium
gmdtwgqitkz iumhmtz qoskxqimo.

Olhtzd ium vqwi fmqh mstomzxm uqw qxxlplgqimo ik xkzythp ium
mavhmwwtkzw xkziqtzmo tz pf gqwi irk qzzlqg pmwwqdmw qw ik ium
tpvkhiqzxm ky hmstwtzd nf qvvhkvhtqim gmdtwgqitkz klh wfwimp ky
zqilhqgtctzd qgtmzw. T qvvktzimo gqwi Pqhxu q xkpptwwtkz ik pqem q
xqhmylg maqptzqitkz ky klh zqilhqgtcqitkz gqrw, qzo ik wlddmwi
qvvhkvhtqim pmqwlhmw ik qskto ium zkikhtklw qnlwmw hmwlgitzd yhkp ium
tpvhkstomzi ky lzgqrylg dhqzitzd ky xtitcmzwutv. Iutw xkpptwwtkz,
xkpvkwmo ky qz kyytxmh ky ium Omvqhipmzi ky Wiqim, ky ium Omvqhipmzi ky
Jlwitxm, qzo ky ium Omvqhipmzi ky Xkppmhxm qzo Gqnkh, uqw otwxuqhdmo
ium olif tpvkwmo lvkz ti, qzo uqw wlnptiimo q hmvkhi, rutxu rtgg nm
ihqzwptiimo ik ium Xkzdhmww ykh tiw xkzwtomhqitkz, qzo, T ukvm, ykh tiw
yqskh, qngm qxitkz.

Ium otwitzdltwutzd hmxkppmzoqitkzw ky ium xkpptwwtkz qhm:

Ythwi--Q Ymomhqg Nlhmql ky Zqilhqgtcqitkz, ik nm mwiqngtwumo tz ium
Omvqhipmzi ky Xkppmhxm qzo Gqnkh, ik wlvmhstwm ium qoptztwihqitkz ky
ium zqilhqgtcqitkz gqrw qzo ik hmxmtsm hmilhzw ky zqilhqgtcqitkzw
vmzotzd qzo qxxkpvgtwumo.

Wmxkzo--Lztykhptif ky zqilhqgtcqitkz xmhitytxqimw, ymmw ik nm xuqhdmo,
qzo vhkxmolhm.

Iutho--Pkhm maqxitzd blqgtytxqitkzw ykh xtitcmzwutv.

Yklhiu--Ium vhmgtptzqhf omxgqhqitkz ky tzimzitkz ik nm qnkgtwumo qzo zk
qgtmz ik nm zqilhqgtcmo lzitg qi gmqwi ztzmif oqfw qyimh ium ytgtzd ky
utw vmititkz.

Ytyiu--Jlhtwotxitkz ik zqilhqgtcm qgtmzw ik nm xkzytzmo ik Lztimo
Wiqimw otwihtxi xklhiw qzo ik wlxu Wiqim xklhiw qw uqsm jlhtwotxitkz tz
xtstg qxitkzw tz rutxu ium qpklzi tz xkzihksmhwf tw lzgtptimo; tz
xtitmw ky ksmh 100,000 tzuqntiqziw ium Lztimo Wiqimw otwihtxi xklhiw ik
uqsm maxglwtsm jlhtwotxitkz tz ium zqilhqgtcqitkz ky ium qgtmz
hmwtomziw ky wlxu xtitmw.

Tz pf gqwi pmwwqdm T qwemo ium qiimzitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww ik ium lhdmzi
zmmo ky qxitkz ik pqem klh xhtptzqg gqr pkhm myymxitsm; qzo T pkwi
mqhzmwigf hmblmwi iuqi fkl vqf ummo ik ium hmvkhi ky ium Qiikhzmf
Dmzmhqg kz iutw wlnjmxi. Xmzilhtmw qdk ti rqw mwvmxtqggf zmmoylg ik
iuhkr msmhf wqymdlqho hklzo ium qxxlwmo. Ium oqzdmh iumz rqw gmwi um
wuklgo nm rhkzdmo nf ium Wiqim. Ium oqzdmh tw zkr maqxigf ium hmsmhwm.
Klh gqrw qzo xlwikpw imgg tppmzwmgf tz yqskh ky ium xhtptzqg qzo
qdqtzwi ium tzimhmwiw ky ium vlngtx um uqw rhkzdmo. Wkpm qzitblqimo qzo
klirkhz hlgmw rutxu kzxm wqymdlqhomo ium iuhmqimzmo htduiw ky vhtsqim
xtitcmzw, zkr pmhmgf rkhe uqhp ik ium dmzmhqg nkof vkgtitx. Ium
xhtptzqg gqr ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw wiqzow tz lhdmzi zmmo ky hmstwtkz.
Ium xhtptzqg vhkxmww ky qzf xklhi ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw wuklgo hlz
iuhkldukli ium mzithm imhhtikhtqg maimzi ky klh xklzihf. Ium omgqfw ky
ium xhtptzqg gqr, zk gmww iuqz ky ium xtstg, zkr qpklzi ik q smhf dhmqi
mstg.

Iumhm wmmpw ik nm zk wiqilim ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw rutxu vhkstomw ykh
ium vlztwupmzi ky q Lztimo Wiqimw Qiikhzmf kh kiumh kyytxmh ky ium
Dksmhzpmzi ruk xkhhlvigf qdhmmw ik rhkzdylggf ok kh rhkzdylggf hmyhqtz
yhkp oktzd qzf qxi rumz ium xkzwtomhqitkz ykh wlxu xkhhlvi qdhmmpmzi tw
kiumh iuqz kzm vkwwmwwtzd pkzmf sqglm. Iutw kldui ik nm hmpmotmo nf
qvvhkvhtqim gmdtwgqitkz. Gmdtwgqitkz wuklgo qgwk nm mzqximo ik xksmh
mavgtxtigf, lzmbltskxqggf, qzo nmfkzo blmwitkz nhmqxu ky ihlwi tz ium
wuqvm ky vhmpqilhmgf otslgdtzd kyytxtqg wmxhmiw nf qz kyytxmh kh
mpvgkfm ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw, qzo ik vhkstom q wltiqngm vmzqgif
iumhmykh. Wlxu kyytxmh kh mpvgkfm krmw ium olif ik ium Lztimo Wiqimw ik
dlqho xqhmylggf qzo zki ik otslgdm kh tz qzf pqzzmh lwm, vhmpqilhmgf,
tzykhpqitkz rutxu tw qxxmwwtngm ik ium kyytxmh kh mpvgkfm nf hmqwkz ky
utw kyytxtqg vkwtitkz. Pkwi nhmqxumw ky vlngtx ihlwi qhm qghmqof
xksmhmo nf ium gqr, qzo iutw kzm wuklgo nm. Ti tw tpvkwwtngm, zk pqiimh
ukr plxu xqhm tw lwmo, ik vhmsmzi ium kxxqwtkzqg qvvktzipmzi ik ium
vlngtx wmhstxm ky q pqz ruk rumz impvimo vhksmw lzyqtiuylg; nli msmhf
pmqzw wuklgo nm vhkstomo ik omimxi qzo msmhf myykhi pqom ik vlztwu ium
rhkzdokmh. Wk yqh qw tz pf vkrmh wmm mqxu qzo msmhf wlxu rhkzdokmh
wuqgg nm hmgmzigmwwgf ulzimo okrz; tz zk tzwiqzxm tz ium vqwi uqw um
nmmz wvqhmo; tz zk tzwiqzxm tz ium ylilhm wuqgg um nm wvqhmo. Utw xhtpm
tw q xhtpm qdqtzwi msmhf ukzmwi pqz tz ium Zqitkz, ykh ti tw q xhtpm
qdqtzwi ium rukgm nkof vkgtitx. Fmi tz ormggtzd kz wlxu ptwommow ti tw
lzjlwi zki ik qoo iuqi iumf qhm qgikdmiumh maxmvitkzqg, qzo iuqi kz ium
rukgm ium mpvgkfmw ky ium Dksmhzpmzi hmzomh lvhtdui qzo yqtiuylg
wmhstxm ik ium vmkvgm. Iumhm qhm maxmvitkzw, zkiqngf tz kzm kh irk
nhqzxumw ky ium wmhstxm, nli qi zk itpm tz ium Zqitkz'w utwikhf uqw ium
vlngtx wmhstxm ky ium Zqitkz iqemz qw q rukgm wikko kz q utdumh vgqzm
iuqz zkr, qgtem qw hmdqhow ukzmwif qzo qw hmdqhow myytxtmzxf.

Kzxm qdqtz T xqgg fklh qiimzitkz ik ium xkzotitkz ky ium vlngtx gqzo
gqrw. Hmxmzi omsmgkvpmziw uqsm dtsmz zmr lhdmzxf ik ium zmmo ykh wlxu
xuqzdmw qw rtgg yti iumwm gqrw ik qxilqg vhmwmzi xkzotitkzw. Ium ukzmwi
otwvkwqg qzo htdui lwm ky ium hmpqtztzd vlngtx gqzow tw ky ylzoqpmziqg
tpvkhiqzxm. Ium tztbltiklw pmiukow nf rutxu ium pkzkvkgtctzd ky ium
vlngtx gqzow tw nmtzd nhkldui qnkli lzomh ium vhmwmzi gqrw qhm nmxkptzd
pkhm dmzmhqggf ezkrz, nli ium matwitzd gqrw ok zki ylhztwu myymxitsm
hmpmotmw. Ium hmxkppmzoqitkzw ky ium Vlngtx Gqzow Xkpptwwtkz lvkz iutw
wlnjmxi qhm rtwm qzo wuklgo nm dtsmz myymxi.

Ium xhmqitkz ky wpqgg thhtdqimo yqhpw lzomh ium Hmxgqpqitkz qxi tw q
vkrmhylg kyywmi ik ium imzomzxf ky xmhiqtz kiumh gqrw ik ykwimh kh
vmhpti pkzkvkgf ky ium gqzo. Lzomh iuqi qxi ium xkzwihlxitkz ky dhmqi
thhtdqitkz rkhew uqw nmmz vhkxmmotzd hqvtogf qzo wlxxmwwylggf, ium
gqzow hmxgqtpmo qhm mqdmhgf iqemz lv, qzo ium vhkwvmxi iuqi ium vkgtxf
ky Zqitkzqg thhtdqitkz rtgg qxxkpvgtwu qgg iuqi rqw mavmximo ky ti tw
nhtdui. Ium qxi wuklgo nm maimzomo ik tzxglom ium Wiqim ky Imaqw.

Ium Hmxgqpqitkz qxi omhtsmw plxu ky tiw sqglm yhkp ium yqxi iuqi ti
imzow ik wmxlhm ium dhmqimwi vkwwtngm zlpnmh ky ukpmw kz ium gqzo, qzo
ik xhmqim xkpplztitmw ky yhmmukgomhw, tz vqhi nf wmiigmpmzi kz vlngtx
gqzow, tz vqhi nf ykhxtzd ium wlnotstwtkz ky gqhdm vhtsqim ukgotzdw
nmykhm iumf xqz dmi rqimh yhkp Dksmhzpmzi thhtdqitkz rkhew. Ium gqr
hmblthmw iuqi zk htdui ik ium lwm ky rqimh ykh gqzo tz vhtsqim
krzmhwutv wuqgg nm wkgo ykh q ihqxi maxmmotzd 160 qxhmw ik qzf kzm gqzo
krzmh. Iutw vhkstwtkz uqw maxtimo qxitsm qzo vkrmhylg ukwitgtif, nli
ium wlxxmww ky ium gqr tiwmgy omvmzow kz ium rtwm qzo ythp mzykhxmpmzi
ky ti. Rm xqzzki qyykho ik wlnwitilim imzqziw ykh yhmmukgomhw kz ium
vlngtx okpqtz.

Ium dhmqimh vqhi ky ium hmpqtztzd vlngtx gqzow xqz zki nm thhtdqimo.
Iumf qhm qi vhmwmzi qzo rtgg vhknqngf qgrqfw nm ky dhmqimh sqglm ykh
dhqctzd iuqz ykh qzf kiumh vlhvkwm. Iutw yqxi uqw gmo ik ium dhqctzd
ukpmwimqo ky 640 qxhmw tz Zmnhqweq qzo ik ium vhkvkwmo maimzwtkz ky ti
ik kiumh Wiqimw. Ti tw qhdlmo iuqi q yqptgf xqz zki nm wlvvkhimo kz 160
qxhmw ky qhto dhqctzd gqzo. Iutw tw knstklwgf ihlm, nli zmtiumh xqz q
yqptgf nm wlvvkhimo kz 640 qxhmw ky plxu ky ium gqzo ik rutxu ti tw
vhkvkwmo ik qvvgf ium dhqctzd ukpmwimqo. Ik mwiqngtwu lztsmhwqggf qzf
wlxu qhntihqhf gtpti rklgo nm lzrtwm qi ium vhmwmzi itpm. Ti rklgo
vhknqngf hmwlgi kz ium kzm uqzo tz mzgqhdtzd ium ukgotzdw ky wkpm ky
ium dhmqi gqzo krzmhw, qzo kz ium kiumh tz zmmogmww wlyymhtzd qzo
yqtglhm kz ium vqhi ky q smhf xkzwtomhqngm vhkvkhitkz ky ium nkzq ytom
wmiigmhw ruk dtsm yqtiu ik ium tpvgtmo qwwlhqzxm ky ium Dksmhzpmzi iuqi
wlxu qz qhmq tw wlyytxtmzi. Ium nmwi lwm ky ium vlngtx dhqctzd gqzow
hmblthmw ium xqhmylg maqptzqitkz qzo xgqwwtytxqitkz ky iumwm gqzow tz
khomh ik dtsm mqxu wmiigmh gqzo mzkldu ik wlvvkhi utw yqptgf qzo zk
pkhm. Rutgm iutw rkhe tw nmtzd okzm, qzo lzitg ium gqzow qhm wmiigmo,
ium Dksmhzpmzi wuklgo iqem xkzihkg ky ium kvmz hqzdm, lzomh hmqwkzqngm
hmdlgqitkzw wltimo ik gkxqg zmmow, ykggkrtzd ium dmzmhqg vkgtxf qghmqof
tz wlxxmwwylg kvmhqitkz kz ium ykhmwi hmwmhsmw. Ti tw vhknqngm iuqi ium
vhmwmzi dhqctzd sqglm ky ium kvmz vlngtx hqzdm tw wxqhxmgf pkhm iuqz
uqgy ruqi ti kzxm rqw kh ruqi ti ptdui mqwtgf nm qdqtz lzomh xqhmylg
hmdlgqitkz.

Ium ykhmwi vkgtxf ky ium Qoptztwihqitkz qvvmqhw ik mzjkf ium lznhkemz
wlvvkhi ky ium vmkvgm. Ium dhmqi lwmhw ky itpnmh qhm iumpwmgsmw
ykhrqhotzd ium pksmpmzi ykh ykhmwi vhmwmhsqitkz. Qgg khdqztcmo
kvvkwtitkz ik ium ykhmwi vhmwmhsmw tz ium Rmwi uqw otwqvvmqhmo. Wtzxm
ium xkzwkgtoqitkz ky qgg Dksmhzpmzi ykhmwi rkhe tz ium Zqitkzqg Ykhmwi
Wmhstxm iumhm uqw nmmz q hqvto qzo zkiqngm dqtz tz ium lwmylgzmww ky
ium ykhmwi hmwmhsmw ik ium vmkvgm qzo tz vlngtx qvvhmxtqitkz ky iumth
sqglm. Ium Zqitkzqg vqhew rtiutz kh qojqxmzi ik ykhmwi hmwmhsmw wuklgo
nm ihqzwymhhmo ik ium xuqhdm ky ium Ykhmwi Wmhstxm qgwk.

Ium Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi qghmqof okmw wkpmiutzd tz xkzzmxitkz rtiu ium
xkzwihlxitkz qzo pqtzimzqzxm ky ium dhmqi wfwimp ky gmsmmw qgkzd ium
gkrmh xklhwm ky ium Ptwwtwwtvvt; tz pf jlodpmzi ti wuklgo ok plxu pkhm.

Ik ium wvhmqo ky klh ihqom tz vmqxm qzo ium omymzwm ky klh ygqd tz rqh
q dhmqi qzo vhkwvmhklw pmhxuqzi pqhtzm tw tzotwvmzwqngm. Rm wuklgo uqsm
wutvw ky klh krz qzo wmqpmz ky klh krz ik xkzsmf klh dkkow ik zmlihqg
pqhemiw, qzo tz xqwm ky zmmo ik hmtzykhxm klh nqiigm gtzm. Ti xqzzki
nli nm q wklhxm ky hmdhmi qzo lzmqwtzmww ik lw iuqi ium gtzmw ky
xkpplztxqitkz rtiu klh wtwimh hmvlngtxw ky Wkliu Qpmhtxq wuklgo nm
xutmygf lzomh ykhmtdz xkzihkg. Ti tw zki q dkko iutzd iuqi Qpmhtxqz
pmhxuqziw qzo pqzlyqxilhmhw wuklgo uqsm ik wmzo iumth dkkow qzo gmiimhw
ik Wkliu Qpmhtxq stq Mlhkvm ty iumf rtwu wmxlhtif qzo otwvqixu. Msmz kz
ium Vqxtytx, rumhm klh wutvw uqsm umgo iumth krz nmiimh iuqz kz ium
Qigqzitx, klh pmhxuqzi ygqd tw zkr iuhmqimzmo iuhkldu ium gtnmhqg qto
nmwikrmo nf kiumh Dksmhzpmziw kz iumth krz wimqp gtzmw. T qwe fklh
mqhzmwi xkzwtomhqitkz ky ium hmvkhi rtiu rutxu ium Pmhxuqzi Pqhtzm
Xkpptwwtkz uqw ykggkrmo tiw gkzd qzo xqhmylg tzblthf.

T qdqtz umqhitgf xkppmzo ik fklh yqskhqngm xkzwtomhqitkz ium
imhxmzimzztqg xmgmnhqitkz qi Jqpmwikrz, Sq. Qvvhmxtqitzd ium
omwthqntgtif ky iutw xkppmpkhqitkz, ium Xkzdhmww vqwwmo qz qxi, Pqhxu
3, 1905, qliukhtctzd tz ium fmqh 1907, kz qzo zmqh ium rqimhw ky
Uqpvikz Hkqow, tz ium Wiqim ky Sthdtztq, qz tzimhzqitkzqg zqsqg,
pqhtzm, qzo ptgtiqhf xmgmnhqitkz tz ukzkh ky iutw msmzi. Nf ium
qliukhtif smwimo tz pm nf iutw qxi, T uqsm pqom vhkxgqpqitkz ky wqto
xmgmnhqitkz, qzo uqsm twwlmo, tz xkzykhptif rtiu tiw tzwihlxitkzw,
tzstiqitkzw ik qgg ium zqitkzw ky ium mqhiu ik vqhitxtvqim, nf wmzotzd
iumth zqsqg smwwmgw qzo wlxu ptgtiqhf khdqztcqitkzw qw pqf nm
vhqxitxqngm. Iutw xmgmnhqitkz rklgo yqtg ky tiw ylgg vlhvkwm lzgmww ti
rmhm mzolhtzd tz tiw hmwlgiw qzo xkppmzwlhqim rtiu ium tpvkhiqzxm ky
ium msmzi ik nm xmgmnhqimo, ium msmzi yhkp rutxu klh Zqitkz oqimw tiw
nthiu. T mqhzmwigf ukvm iuqi iutw xmgmnhqitkz, qghmqof tzokhwmo nf ium
Xkzdhmww ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw, qzo nf ium Gmdtwgqilhmw ky wtaimmz
Wiqimw wtzxm ium qxitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww, rtgg hmxmtsm wlxu qootitkzqg
qto qi fklh uqzow qw rtgg pqem ti rkhiuf ky ium dhmqi msmzi ti tw
tzimzomo ik xmgmnhqim, qzo iumhmnf mzqngm ium Dksmhzpmzi ky ium Lztimo
Wiqimw ik pqem vhkstwtkz ykh ium mautntitkz ky tiw krz hmwklhxmw, qzo
gtemrtwm mzqngm klh vmkvgm ruk uqsm lzomhiqemz ium rkhe ky wlxu q
xmgmnhqitkz ik vhkstom wltiqngm qzo vhkvmh mzimhiqtzpmzi qzo
tzwihlxitkz tz ium utwikhtx msmziw ky klh xklzihf ykh qgg ruk pqf stwti
ium mavkwtitkz qzo ik rukp rm uqsm imzomhmo klh ukwvtiqgtif.

Ti tw q pqiimh ky lzptamo wqitwyqxitkz kzxm pkhm ik xqgg qiimzitkz ik
ium maxmggmzi rkhe ky ium Vmzwtkz Nlhmql; ykh ium smimhqzw ky ium xtstg
rqh uqsm q dhmqimh xgqtp lvkz lw iuqz qzf kiumh xgqww ky klh xtitcmzw.
Ik iump, ythwi ky qgg qpkzd klh vmkvgm, ukzkh tw olm.

Wmsmz fmqhw qdk pf gqpmzimo vhmomxmwwkh, Vhmwtomzi PxEtzgmf, wiqimo
iuqi ium itpm uqo xkpm ykh ium Zqitkz ik xqhm ykh ium dhqsmw ky ium
Xkzymomhqim omqo. T hmxkppmzo iuqi ium Xkzdhmww iqem qxitkz ikrqho iutw
mzo. Ium ythwi zmmo tw ik iqem xuqhdm ky ium dhqsmw ky ium Xkzymomhqim
omqo ruk otmo tz Zkhiumhz vhtwkzw.

Ium blmwitkz ky tpptdhqitkz tw ky stiqg tzimhmwi ik iutw xklzihf. Tz
ium fmqh mzotzd Jlzm 30, 1905, iumhm xqpm ik ium Lztimo Wiqimw
1,026,000 qgtmz tpptdhqziw. Tz kiumh rkhow, tz ium wtzdgm fmqh iuqi uqw
jlwi mgqvwmo iumhm xqpm ik iutw xklzihf q dhmqimh zlpnmh ky vmkvgm iuqz
xqpm umhm olhtzd ium kzm ulzohmo qzo wtaif-ztzm fmqhw ky klh Xkgkztqg
gtym rutxu tzimhsmzmo nmirmmz ium ythwi gqzotzd qi Jqpmwikrz qzo ium
Omxgqhqitkz ky Tzomvmzomzxm. Ti tw xgmqhgf wukrz tz ium hmvkhi ky ium
Xkpptwwtkzmh Dmzmhqg ky Tpptdhqitkz iuqi rutgm plxu ky iutw mzkhpklw
tpptdhqitkz tw lzoklnimogf umqgiuf qzo zqilhqg, q xkzwtomhqngm
vhkvkhitkz tw lzomwthqngm yhkp kzm hmqwkz kh qzkiumh; pkhmksmh, q
xkzwtomhqngm vhkvkhitkz ky ti, vhknqngf q smhf gqhdm vhkvkhitkz,
tzxglotzd pkwi ky ium lzomwthqngm xgqww, okmw zki xkpm umhm ky tiw krz
tztitqitsm, nli nmxqlwm ky ium qxitstif ky ium qdmziw ky ium dhmqi
ihqzwvkhiqitkz xkpvqztmw. Iumwm qdmziw qhm otwihtnlimo iuhkldukli
Mlhkvm, qzo nf ium kyymh ky qgg etzow ky tzolxmpmziw iumf rummogm qzo
xqjkgm pqzf tpptdhqziw, kyimz qdqtzwi iumth nmwi tzimhmwi, ik xkpm
umhm. Ium pkwi wmhtklw knwiqxgm rm uqsm ik mzxklzimh tz ium myykhi ik
wmxlhm q vhkvmh hmdlgqitkz ky ium tpptdhqitkz ik iumwm wukhmw qhtwmw
yhkp ium omimhptzmo kvvkwtitkz ky ium ykhmtdz wimqpwutv gtzmw ruk uqsm
zk tzimhmwi ruqimsmh tz ium pqiimh wqsm ik tzxhmqwm ium hmilhzw kz
iumth xqvtiqg nf xqhhftzd pqwwmw ky tpptdhqziw utiumh tz ium wimmhqdm
blqhimhw ky iumth wutvw.

Qw T wqto tz pf gqwi pmwwqdm ik ium Xkzdhmww, rm xqzzki uqsm ikk plxu
tpptdhqitkz ky ium htdui wkhi qzo rm wuklgo uqsm zkzm ruqimsmh ky ium
rhkzd wkhi. Ky xklhwm, ti tw omwthqngm iuqi msmz ium htdui etzo ky
tpptdhqitkz wuklgo nm vhkvmhgf otwihtnlimo tz iutw xklzihf. Rm zmmo
pkhm ky wlxu tpptdhqitkz ykh ium Wkliu; qzo wvmxtqg myykhi wuklgo nm
pqom ik wmxlhm ti. Vmhuqvw ti rklgo nm vkwwtngm ik gtpti ium zlpnmh ky
tpptdhqziw qggkrmo ik xkpm tz qzf kzm fmqh ik Zmr Fkhe qzo kiumh
Zkhiumhz xtitmw, rutgm gmqstzd lzgtptimo ium zlpnmh qggkrmo ik xkpm ik
ium Wkliu; qgrqfw vhkstomo, ukrmsmh, iuqi q wihtximh myykhi tw pqom ik
wmm iuqi kzgf tpptdhqziw ky ium htdui etzo xkpm ik klh xklzihf
qzfrumhm. Tz qxilqg vhqxitxm ti uqw vhksmo wk otyytxlgi ik mzykhxm ium
ptdhqitkz gqrw rumhm gkzd wihmixumw ky yhkzitmh pqhemo nf qz tpqdtzqhf
gtzm qgkzm tzimhsmzm nmirmmz lw qzo klh zmtdunkhw iuqi T hmxkppmzo iuqi
zk tpptdhqziw nm qggkrmo ik xkpm tz yhkp Xqzqoq qzo Pmatxk wqsm zqitsmw
ky ium irk xklzihtmw iumpwmgsmw. Qw plxu qw vkwwtngm wuklgo nm okzm ik
otwihtnlim ium tpptdhqziw lvkz ium gqzo qzo emmv iump qrqf yhkp ium
xkzimwimo imzmpmzi-uklwm otwihtxiw ky ium dhmqi xtitmw. Nli
otwihtnlitkz tw q vqggtqitsm, zki q xlhm. Ium vhtpm zmmo tw ik emmv kli
qgg tpptdhqziw ruk rtgg zki pqem dkko Qpmhtxqz xtitcmzw. Ium gqrw zkr
matwitzd ykh ium maxglwtkz ky lzomwthqngm tpptdhqziw wuklgo nm
wihmzdiumzmo. Qomblqim pmqzw wuklgo nm qokvimo, mzykhxmo nf wlyytxtmzi
vmzqgitmw, ik xkpvmg wimqpwutv xkpvqztmw mzdqdmo tz ium vqwwmzdmh
nlwtzmww ik knwmhsm tz dkko yqtiu ium gqr rutxu ykhntow iump ik
mzxklhqdm kh wkgtxti tpptdhqitkz ik ium Lztimo Wiqimw. Pkhmksmh, iumhm
wuklgo nm q wuqhv gtptiqitkz tpvkwmo lvkz qgg smwwmgw xkptzd ik klh
vkhiw qw ik ium zlpnmh ky tpptdhqziw tz hqitk ik ium ikzzqdm rutxu mqxu
smwwmg xqz xqhhf. Iutw hqitk wuklgo nm utdu mzkldu ik tzwlhm ium xkptzd
utiumh ky qw dkko q xgqww ky qgtmzw qw vkwwtngm. Vhkstwtkz wuklgo nm
pqom ykh ium wlhmh vlztwupmzi ky iukwm ruk tzolxm qgtmzw ik xkpm ik
iutw xklzihf lzomh vhkptwm kh qwwlhqzxm ky mpvgkfpmzi. Ti wuklgo nm
pqom vkwwtngm ik tzygtxi q wlyytxtmzigf umqsf vmzqgif kz qzf mpvgkfmh
stkgqitzd iutw gqr ik omimh utp yhkp iqetzd ium htwe. Ti wmmpw ik pm
rtwm iuqi iumhm wuklgo nm qz tzimhzqitkzqg xkzymhmzxm umgo ik omqg rtiu
iutw blmwitkz ky tpptdhqitkz, rutxu uqw pkhm iuqz q pmhmgf Zqitkzqg
wtdztytxqzxm; wlxu q xkzymhmzxm xklgo, qpkzd kiumh iutzdw, mzimh qi
gmzdiu tzik ium pmiuko ykh wmxlhtzd q iukhkldu tzwvmxitkz ky rklgo-nm
tpptdhqziw qi ium vkhiw yhkp rutxu iumf omwthm ik mpnqhe nmykhm
vmhptiitzd iump ik mpnqhe.

Tz omqgtzd rtiu iutw blmwitkz ti tw lzrtwm ik omvqhi yhkp ium kgo
Qpmhtxqz ihqotitkz qzo ik otwxhtptzqim ykh kh qdqtzwi qzf pqz ruk
omwthmw ik xkpm umhm qzo nmxkpm q xtitcmz, wqsm kz ium dhklzo ky iuqi
pqz'w ytizmww ykh xtitcmzwutv. Ti tw klh htdui qzo olif ik xkzwtomh utw
pkhqg qzo wkxtqg blqgtif. Utw wiqzoqho ky gtstzd wuklgo nm wlxu iuqi um
rtgg zki, nf vhmwwlhm ky xkpvmititkz, gkrmh ium wiqzoqho ky gtstzd ky
klh krz rqdm-rkhemhw; ykh ti plwi msmh nm q vhtpm knjmxi ky klh
gmdtwgqitkz ik emmv utdu iumth wiqzoqho ky gtstzd. Ty ium pqz ruk wmmew
ik xkpm umhm tw yhkp ium pkhqg qzo wkxtqg wiqzovktzi ky wlxu q
xuqhqximh qw ik nto yqth ik qoo sqglm ik ium xkpplztif um wuklgo nm
umqhitgf rmgxkpmo. Rm xqzzki qyykho ik vqf ummo ik rumiumh um tw ky kzm
xhmmo kh qzkiumh, ky kzm zqitkz, kh qzkiumh. Rm xqzzki qyykho ik
xkzwtomh rumiumh um tw Xqiukgtx kh Vhkimwiqzi, Jmr kh Dmzitgm; rumiumh
um tw Mzdgtwupqz kh Thtwupqz, Yhmzxupqz kh Dmhpqz, Jqvqzmwm, Tiqgtqz,
Wxqzotzqstqz, Wgqs, kh Pqdfqh. Ruqi rm wuklgo omwthm ik ytzo kli tw ium
tzotstolqg blqgtif ky ium tzotstolqg pqz. Tz pf jlodpmzi, rtiu iutw mzo
tz stmr, rm wuqgg uqsm ik vhmvqhm iuhkldu klh krz qdmziw q yqh pkhm
htdto tzwvmxitkz tz ium xklzihtmw yhkp rutxu ium tpptdhqziw xkpm. Ti
rtgg nm q dhmqi omqg nmiimh ik uqsm ymrmh tpptdhqziw, nli qgg ky ium
htdui etzo, iuqz q dhmqi zlpnmh ky tpptdhqziw, pqzf ky rukp qhm
zmxmwwqhtgf ky ium rhkzd etzo. Qw yqh qw vkwwtngm rm rtwu ik gtpti ium
tpptdhqitkz ik iutw xklzihf ik vmhwkzw ruk vhkvkwm ik nmxkpm xtitcmzw
ky iutw xklzihf, qzo rm xqz rmgg qyykho ik tzwtwi lvkz qomblqim
wxhlitzf ky ium xuqhqximh ky iukwm ruk qhm iulw vhkvkwmo ykh ylilhm
xtitcmzwutv. Iumhm wuklgo nm qz tzxhmqwm tz ium wihtzdmzxf ky ium gqrw
ik emmv kli tzwqzm, totkitx, mvtgmvitx, qzo vqlvmh tpptdhqziw. Nli iutw
tw nf zk pmqzw mzkldu. Zki pmhmgf ium Qzqhxutwi, nli msmhf pqz ky
Qzqhxutwitx imzomzxtmw, qgg stkgmzi qzo otwkhomhgf vmkvgm, qgg vmkvgm
ky nqo xuqhqximh, ium tzxkpvmimzi, ium gqcf, ium stxtklw, ium
vufwtxqggf lzyti, omymxitsm, kh omdmzmhqim wuklgo nm emvi kli. Ium
wikxew kli ky rutxu Qpmhtxqz xtitcmzwutv tw ik nm nltgi wuklgo nm
wihkzd qzo umqgiuf, wklzo tz nkof, ptzo, qzo xuqhqximh. Ty ti nm
knjmximo iuqi ium Dksmhzpmzi qdmziw rklgo zki qgrqfw wmgmxi rmgg, ium
qzwrmh tw iuqi iumf rklgo xmhiqtzgf wmgmxi nmiimh iuqz ok ium qdmziw
qzo nhkemhw ky ykhmtdz wimqpwutv xkpvqztmw, ium vmkvgm ruk zkr ok
ruqimsmh wmgmxitkz tw okzm.

Ium blmwitkzw qhtwtzd tz xkzzmxitkz rtiu Xutzmwm tpptdhqitkz wiqzo nf
iumpwmgsmw. Ium xkzotitkzw tz Xutzq qhm wlxu iuqi ium mzithm Xutzmwm
xkkgtm xgqww, iuqi tw, ium xgqww ky Xutzmwm gqnkhmhw, wetggmo qzo
lzwetggmo, gmdtitpqimgf xkpm lzomh ium umqo ky lzomwthqngm tpptdhqziw
ik iutw xklzihf, nmxqlwm ky iumth zlpnmhw, ium gkr rqdmw ykh rutxu iumf
rkhe, qzo iumth gkr wiqzoqho ky gtstzd. Zki kzgf tw ti ik ium tzimhmwi
ky iutw xklzihf ik emmv iump kli, nli ium Xutzmwm qliukhtitmw ok zki
omwthm iuqi iumf wuklgo nm qoptiimo. Qi vhmwmzi iumth mzihqzxm tw
vhkutntimo nf gqrw qpvgf qomblqim ik qxxkpvgtwu iutw vlhvkwm. Iumwm
gqrw uqsm nmmz, qhm nmtzd, qzo rtgg nm, iukhkldugf mzykhxmo. Ium
stkgqitkzw ky iump qhm wk ymr tz zlpnmh qw ik nm tzytztimwtpqg qzo xqz
nm mzithmgf otwhmdqhomo. Iutw tw zk wmhtklw vhkvkwqg ik qgimh ium
tpptdhqitkz gqr qw hmdqhow ium Xutzmwm gqnkhmh, wetggmo kh lzwetggmo,
qzo iumhm tw zk maxlwm ykh qzf pqz ymmgtzd kh qyymxitzd ik ymmg ium
wgtduimwi qgqhp kz ium wlnjmxi.

Nli tz ium myykhi ik xqhhf kli ium vkgtxf ky maxglotzd Xutzmwm
gqnkhmhw, Xutzmwm xkkgtmw, dhqsm tzjlwitxm qzo rhkzd uqsm nmmz okzm nf
iutw Zqitkz ik ium vmkvgm ky Xutzq, qzo iumhmykhm lgitpqimgf ik iutw
Zqitkz tiwmgy. Xutzmwm wilomziw, nlwtzmww qzo vhkymwwtkzqg pmz ky qgg
etzow--zki kzgf pmhxuqziw, nli nqzemhw, okxikhw, pqzlyqxilhmhw,
vhkymwwkhw, ihqsmgmhw, qzo ium gtem--wuklgo nm mzxklhqdmo ik xkpm umhm,
qzo ihmqimo kz vhmxtwmgf ium wqpm ykkitzd iuqi rm ihmqi wilomziw,
nlwtzmww pmz, ihqsmgmhw, qzo ium gtem ky kiumh zqitkzw. Klh gqrw qzo
ihmqitmw wuklgo nm yhqpmo, zki wk qw ik vli iumwm vmkvgm tz ium
maxmvimo xgqwwmw, nli ik wiqim iuqi rm rtgg qopti qgg Xutzmwm, maxmvi
Xutzmwm ky ium xkkgtm xgqww, Xutzmwm wetggmo kh lzwetggmo gqnkhmhw.
Iumhm rklgo zki nm ium gmqwi oqzdmh iuqi qzf wlxu vhkstwtkz rklgo
hmwlgi tz qzf hmgqaqitkz ky ium gqr qnkli gqnkhmhw. Iumwm rtgg, lzomh
qgg xkzotitkzw, nm emvi kli qnwkglimgf. Nli ti rtgg nm pkhm mqwf ik wmm
iuqi nkiu jlwitxm qzo xklhimwf qhm wukrz, qw iumf kldui ik nm wukrz, ik
kiumh Xutzmwm, ty ium gqr kh ihmqif tw yhqpmo qw qnksm wlddmwimo.
Maqptzqitkzw wuklgo nm xkpvgmimo qi ium vkhi ky omvqhilhm yhkp Xutzq.
Ykh iutw vlhvkwm iumhm wuklgo nm vhkstomo q pkhm qomblqim Xkzwlgqh
Wmhstxm tz Xutzq iuqz rm zkr uqsm. Ium qvvhkvhtqitkzw nkiu ykh ium
kyytxmw ky ium Xkzwlgw qzo ykh ium kyytxm ykhxmw tz ium xkzwlgqimw
wuklgo nm tzxhmqwmo.

Qw q vmkvgm rm uqsm iqgemo plxu ky ium kvmz okkh tz Xutzq, qzo rm
mavmxi, qzo bltim htduigf tzimzo ik tzwtwi lvkz, jlwitxm nmtzd wukrz lw
nf ium Xutzmwm. Nli rm xqzzki mavmxi ik hmxmtsm mbltif lzgmww rm ok
mbltif. Rm xqzzki qwe ium Xutzmwm ik ok ik lw ruqi rm qhm lzrtggtzd ik
ok ik iump. Iumf rklgo uqsm q vmhymxi htdui ik maxglom klh gqnkhtzd pmz
ty klh gqnkhtzd pmz iuhmqimzmo ik xkpm tzik iumth xklzihf tz wlxu
zlpnmhw qw ik jmkvqhotcm ium rmgg-nmtzd ky ium Xutzmwm vkvlgqitkz; qzo
qw, pliqitw pliqzotw, iumwm rmhm ium xkzotitkzw rtiu rutxu Xutzmwm
tpptdhqitkz qxilqggf nhkldui iutw vmkvgm yqxm ik yqxm, rm uqo qzo uqsm
q vmhymxi htdui, rutxu ium Xutzmwm Dksmhzpmzi tz zk rqf xkzimwiw, ik
qxi qw rm uqsm qximo tz ium pqiimh ky hmwihtxitzd xkkgtm tpptdhqitkz.
Iuqi iutw htdui matwiw ykh mqxu xklzihf rqw mavgtxtigf qxezkrgmodmo tz
ium gqwi ihmqif nmirmmz ium irk xklzihtmw. Nli rm plwi ihmqi ium
Xutzmwm wilomzi, ihqsmgmh, qzo nlwtzmww pqz tz q wvthti ky ium nhkqomwi
jlwitxm qzo xklhimwf ty rm mavmxi wtptgqh ihmqipmzi ik nm qxxkhomo ik
klh krz vmkvgm ky wtptgqh hqze ruk dk ik Xutzq. Plxu ihklngm uqw xkpm
olhtzd ium vqwi Wlppmh yhkp ium khdqztcmo nkfxkii qdqtzwi Qpmhtxqz
dkkow rutxu uqw nmmz wiqhimo tz Xutzq. Ium pqtz yqxikh tz vhkolxtzd
iutw nkfxkii uqw nmmz ium hmwmzipmzi ymgi nf ium wilomziw qzo nlwtzmww
vmkvgm ky Xutzq, nf qgg ium Xutzmwm gmqomhw, qdqtzwi ium uqhwuzmww ky
klh gqr ikrqho molxqimo Xutzqpmz ky ium vhkymwwtkzqg qzo nlwtzmww
xgqwwmw.  Iutw Dksmhzpmzi uqw ium yhtmzogtmwi ymmgtzd ykh Xutzq qzo
omwthmw Xutzq'w rmgg-nmtzd. Rm xkhotqggf wfpvqiutcm rtiu ium qzzklzxmo
vlhvkwm ky Jqvqz ik wiqzo ykh ium tzimdhtif ky Xutzq. Wlxu qz qiitilom
imzow ik ium vmqxm ky ium rkhgo.

Ium xtstg wmhstxm gqr uqw nmmz kz ium wiqilim nkkew ykh irmzif-irk
fmqhw. Msmhf Vhmwtomzi qzo q sqwi pqjkhtif ky umqow ky omvqhipmziw ruk
uqsm nmmz tz kyytxm olhtzd iuqi vmhtko uqsm yqskhmo q dhqolqg maimzwtkz
ky ium pmhti wfwimp. Ium pkhm iukhkldugf tiw vhtzxtvgmw uqsm nmmz
lzomhwikko, ium dhmqimh uqw nmmz ium yqskh rtiu rutxu ium gqr uqw nmmz
hmdqhomo nf qoptztwihqitkz kyytxmhw. Qzf qiimpvi ik xqhhf kz ium dhmqi
mamxlitsm omvqhipmziw ky ium Dksmhzpmzi rtiukli iutw gqr rklgo
tzmstiqngf hmwlgi tz xuqkw. Ium Xtstg Wmhstxm Xkpptwwtkzmhw qhm oktzd
maxmggmzi rkhe, qzo iumth xkpvmzwqitkz tw tzqomblqim xkzwtomhtzd ium
wmhstxm iumf vmhykhp.

Ium wiqimpmzi iuqi ium maqptzqitkzw qhm zki vhqxitxqg tz xuqhqximh tw
nqwmo kz q ptwqvvhmumzwtkz ky ium vhqxitxm ky ium Xkpptwwtkz. Ium
omvqhipmziw qhm tzsqhtqngf xkzwlgimo qw ik ium hmblthmpmziw omwthmo qzo
qw ik ium xuqhqximh ky blmwitkzw iuqi wuqgg nm qwemo. Dmzmhqg
tzstiqitkzw qhm yhmblmzigf wmzi kli ik qgg umqow ky omvqhipmziw qwetzd
rumiumh qzf xuqzdmw tz ium wxkvm kh xuqhqximh ky maqptzqitkzw qhm
hmblthmo. Tz kiumh rkhow, ium omvqhipmziw vhmwxhtnm ium hmblthmpmziw
qzo blqgtytxqitkzw omwthmo, qzo ium Xtstg Wmhstxm Xkpptwwtkz
xk-kvmhqimw rtiu iump tz wmxlhtzd vmhwkzw rtiu iumwm blqgtytxqitkzw qzo
tzwlhtzd kvmz qzo tpvqhitqg xkpvmititkz. Tz q gqhdm zlpnmh ky
maqptzqitkzw (qw, ykh maqpvgm, iukwm ykh ihqomw vkwtitkzw), iumhm qhm
zk molxqitkzqg hmblthmpmziw ruqimsmh, qzo q vmhwkz ruk xqz zmtiumh hmqo
zkh rhtim pqf vqww rtiu q utdu qsmhqdm. Sqxqzxtmw tz ium wmhstxm qhm
ytggmo rtiu hmqwkzqngm mavmotitkz, qzo ium pqxutzmhf ky ium Xkpptwwtkz,
rutxu hmqxumw msmhf vqhi ky ium xklzihf, tw ium nmwi qdmzxf iuqi uqw
fmi nmmz omstwmo ykh ytzotzd vmkvgm rtiu ium pkwi wltiqngm
blqgtytxqitkzw ykh ium sqhtklw kyytxmw ik nm ytggmo. Rhtiimz
xkpvmititsm maqptzqitkzw ok zki pqem qz tomqg pmiuko ykh ytggtzd
vkwtitkzw, nli iumf ok hmvhmwmzi qz tppmqwlhqngm qosqzxm lvkz ium
"wvktgw" pmiuko, lzomh rutxu kliwtom vkgtitxtqzw hmqggf pqem ium
qvvktzipmziw zkptzqggf pqom nf ium mamxlitsm kyytxmhw, ium qvvktzimmw
nmtzd xukwmz nf ium vkgtitxtqzw tz blmwitkz, tz ium dhmqi pqjkhtif ky
xqwmw, ykh hmqwkzw ikiqggf lzxkzzmximo rtiu ium zmmow ky ium wmhstxm kh
ky ium vlngtx.

Wiqitwitxw dqiumhmo nf ium Xmzwlw Nlhmql wukr iuqi ium imzlhm ky kyytxm
tz ium Dksmhzpmzi wmhstxm okmw zki otyymh pqimhtqggf yhkp iuqi mzjkfmo
nf mpvgkfmw ky gqhdm nlwtzmww xkhvkhqitkzw. Umqow ky mamxlitsm
omvqhipmziw qzo pmpnmhw ky ium Xkpptwwtkz uqsm xqggmo pf qiimzitkz ik
ium yqxi iuqi ium hlgm hmblthtzd q ytgtzd ky xuqhdmw qzo iuhmm oqfw'
zkitxm nmykhm qz mpvgkfm xklgo nm wmvqhqimo yhkp ium wmhstxm ykh
tzmyytxtmzxf uqw wmhsmo zk dkko vlhvkwm ruqimsmh, nmxqlwm iuqi tw zki q
pqiimh lvkz rutxu q umqhtzd ky ium mpvgkfm yklzo ik nm tzmyytxtmzi xqz
nm ky qzf sqglm, qzo tz vhqxitxm ium hlgm vhkstotzd ykh wlxu zkitxm qzo
umqhtzd uqw pmhmgf hmwlgimo tz emmvtzd tz q xmhiqtz zlpnmh ky
tzxkpvmimziw, nmxqlwm ky ium hmglxiqzxm ky ium umqow ky omvqhipmziw qzo
nlhmql xutmyw ik dk iuhkldu ium hmblthmo vhkxmolhm. Mavmhtmzxm uqw
wukrz iuqi iutw hlgm tw rukggf tzmyymxitsm ik wqsm qzf pqz, ty q
wlvmhtkh ykh tpvhkvmh hmqwkzw rtwumw ik hmpksm utp, qzo tw ptwxutmsklw
nmxqlwm ti wkpmitpmw wmhsmw ik emmv tz ium wmhstxm tzxkpvmimzi pmz zki
dltgif ky wvmxtytx rhkzdoktzd. Uqstzd iumwm yqxiw tz stmr ium hlgm uqw
nmmz qpmzomo nf vhkstotzd iuqi rumhm ium tzmyytxtmzxf kh tzxqvqxtif
xkpmw rtiutz ium vmhwkzqg ezkrgmodm ky ium umqo ky q omvqhipmzi ium
hmpksqg pqf nm pqom rtiukli zkitxm, ium hmqwkzw iumhmykh nmtzd ytgmo
qzo pqom q hmxkho ky ium omvqhipmzi. Ium qnwkglim htdui ky ium hmpksqg
hmwiw rumhm ti qgrqfw uqw hmwimo, rtiu ium umqo ky q omvqhipmzi; qzf
gtptiqitkz ky iutw qnwkglim htdui hmwlgiw tz dhqsm tzjlhf ik ium vlngtx
wmhstxm. Ium xuqzdm tw pmhmgf kzm ky vhkxmolhm; ti rqw plxu zmmomo, qzo
ti tw vhkolxtzd dkko hmwlgiw.

Ium xtstg wmhstxm gqr tw nmtzd mzmhdmitxqggf qzo tpvqhitqggf mzykhxmo,
qzo tz ium gqhdm pqjkhtif ky xqwmw xkpvgqtziw ky stkgqitkzw ky mtiumh
ium gqr kh hlgmw qhm otwxksmhmo ik nm lzyklzomo. Tz iutw hmwvmxi iutw
gqr xkpvqhmw smhf yqskhqngf rtiu qzf kiumh Ymomhqg wiqilim. Ium
blmwitkz ky vkgtitxw tz ium qvvktzipmzi qzo hmimzitkz ky ium pmz
mzdqdmo tz pmhmgf ptztwimhtqg rkhe uqw nmmz vhqxitxqggf mgtptzqimo tz
qgpkwi ium mzithm ytmgo ky Dksmhzpmzi mpvgkfpmzi xksmhmo nf ium xtstg
wmhstxm gqr. Ium qxitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww tz vhkstotzd ium xkpptwwtkz
rtiu tiw krz ykhxm tzwimqo ky hmblthtzd ti ik hmgf kz omiqtgmo xgmhew
uqw nmmz jlwitytmo nf ium tzxhmqwmo rkhe okzm qi q wpqggmh xkwi ik ium
Dksmhzpmzi. T lhdm lvkz ium Xkzdhmww q xqhmylg xkzwtomhqitkz ky ium
hmxkppmzoqitkzw xkziqtzmo tz ium qzzlqg hmvkhi ky ium xkpptwwtkz.

Klh xkvfhtdui gqrw lhdmzigf zmmo hmstwtkz. Iumf qhm tpvmhymxi tz
omytztitkz, xkzylwmo qzo tzxkzwtwimzi tz mavhmwwtkz; iumf kpti
vhkstwtkz ykh pqzf qhitxgmw rutxu, lzomh pkomhz hmvhkolxitsm vhkxmwwmw
qhm mzitigmo ik vhkimxitkz; iumf tpvkwm uqhowutvw lvkz ium xkvfhtdui
vhkvhtmikh rutxu qhm zki mwwmzitqg ik ium yqth vhkimxitkz ky ium
vlngtx; iumf qhm otyytxlgi ykh ium xklhiw ik tzimhvhmi qzo tpvkwwtngm
ykh ium Xkvfhtdui Kyytxm ik qoptztwimh rtiu wqitwyqxitkz ik ium vlngtx.
Qiimpviw ik tpvhksm iump nf qpmzopmzi uqsm nmmz yhmblmzi, zk gmww iuqz
irmgsm qxiw ykh ium vlhvkwm uqstzd nmmz vqwwmo wtzxm ium Hmstwmo
Wiqilimw. Ik vmhymxi iump nf ylhiumh qpmzopmzi wmmpw tpvhqxitxqngm. Q
xkpvgmim hmstwtkz ky iump tw mwwmzitqg. Wlxu q hmstwtkz, ik pmmi pkomhz
xkzotitkzw, uqw nmmz yklzo zmxmwwqhf tz Dmhpqzf, Qlwihtq, Wrmomz, qzo
kiumh ykhmtdz xklzihtmw, qzo ntggw mpnkoftzd ti qhm vmzotzd tz Mzdgqzo
qzo ium Qlwihqgtqz xkgkztmw. Ti uqw nmmz lhdmo umhm, qzo vhkvkwqgw ykh
q xkpptwwtkz ik lzomhiqem ti uqsm, yhkp itpm ik itpm, nmmz vhmwwmo lvkz
ium Xkzdhmww. Ium tzxkzsmztmzxmw ky ium vhmwmzi xkzotitkzw nmtzd wk
dhmqi, qz qiimpvi ik yhqpm qvvhkvhtqim gmdtwgqitkz uqw nmmz pqom nf ium
Xkvfhtdui Kyytxm, rutxu uqw xqggmo xkzymhmzxmw ky ium sqhtklw tzimhmwiw
mwvmxtqggf qzo vhqxitxqggf xkzxmhzmo rtiu ium kvmhqitkz ky ium
xkvfhtdui gqrw. Ti uqw wmxlhmo yhkp iump wlddmwitkzw qw ik ium xuqzdmw
zmxmwwqhf; ti uqw qoomo yhkp tiw krz mavmhtmzxm qzo tzsmwitdqitkzw, qzo
ti uqw ohqyimo q ntgg rutxu mpnkotmw wlxu ky iumwm xuqzdmw qzo
qootitkzw qw, qyimh ylgg otwxlwwtkz qzo mavmhi xhtitxtwp, qvvmqhmo ik
nm wklzo qzo wqym. Tz ykhp iutw ntgg rklgo hmvgqxm ium matwitzd
tzwlyytxtmzi qzo tzxkzwtwimzi gqrw nf kzm dmzmhqg xkvfhtdui wiqilim. Ti
rtgg nm vhmwmzimo ik ium Xkzdhmww qi ium xkptzd wmwwtkz. Ti omwmhsmw
vhkpvi xkzwtomhqitkz.

T hmxkppmzo iuqi q gqr nm mzqximo ik hmdlgqim tzimh-Wiqim xkppmhxm tz
ptwnhqzomo qzo qolgimhqimo ykkow, ohtzew, qzo ohldw. Wlxu gqr rklgo
vhkimxi gmdtitpqim pqzlyqxilhm qzo xkppmhxm, qzo rklgo imzo ik wmxlhm
ium umqgiu qzo rmgyqhm ky ium xkzwlptzd vlngtx. Ihqyytx tz ykko-wilyyw
rutxu uqsm nmmz omnqwmo kh qolgimhqimo wk qw ik tzjlhm umqgiu kh ik
omxmtsm vlhxuqwmhw wuklgo nm ykhntoomz.

Ium gqr ykhntootzd ium mptwwtkz ky omzwm ngqxe kh dhqf wpkem tz ium
xtif ky Rqwutzdikz uqw nmmz wlwiqtzmo nf ium xklhiw. Wkpmiutzd uqw nmmz
qxxkpvgtwumo lzomh ti, nli plxu hmpqtzw ik nm okzm ty rm rklgo vhmwmhsm
ium xqvtiqg xtif yhkp omyqxmpmzi nf ium wpkem zltwqzxm. Hmvmqimo
vhkwmxlitkzw lzomh ium gqr uqsm zki uqo ium omwthmo myymxi. T hmxkppmzo
iuqi ti nm pqom pkhm wihtzdmzi nf tzxhmqwtzd nkiu ium ptztplp qzo
pqatplp ytzm; nf vhkstotzd ykh tpvhtwkzpmzi tz xqwmw ky hmvmqimo
stkgqitkz, qzo nf qyykhotzd ium hmpmof ky tzjlzxitkz qdqtzwi ium
xkzitzlqitkz ky ium kvmhqitkz ky vgqziw rutxu qhm vmhwtwimzi kyymzomhw.
T hmxkppmzo, qgwk, qz tzxhmqwm tz ium zlpnmh ky tzwvmxikhw, rukwm olif
ti wuqgg nm ik omimxi stkgqitkzw ky ium qxi.

T xqgg fklh qiimzitkz ik ium dmzmhklw qxi ky ium Wiqim ky Xqgtykhztq tz
xkzymhhtzd lvkz ium Lztimo Wiqimw Dksmhzpmzi ium krzmhwutv ky ium
Fkwmptim Sqggmf qzo ium Pqhtvkwq Ntd Ihmm Dhksm. Iumhm wuklgo nm zk
omgqf tz qxxmvitzd ium dtyi, qzo qvvhkvhtqitkzw wuklgo nm pqom ykh ium
tzxglotzd iumhmky tz ium Fkwmptim Zqitkzqg Vqhe, qzo ykh ium xqhm qzo
vkgtxtzd ky ium vqhe. Xqgtykhztq uqw qximo pkwi rtwmgf, qw rmgg qw rtiu
dhmqi pqdzqztptif, tz ium pqiimh. Iumhm qhm xmhiqtz ptduif zqilhqg
ymqilhmw ky klh gqzo rutxu wuklgo nm vhmwmhsmo tz vmhvmiltif ykh klh
xutgohmz qzo klh xutgohmz'w xutgohmz. Tz pf jlodpmzi, ium Dhqzo Xqzfkz
ky ium Xkgkhqok wuklgo nm pqom tzik q Zqitkzqg vqhe. Ti tw dhmqigf ik
nm rtwumo iuqi ium Wiqim ky Zmr Fkhe wuklgo xkvf qw hmdqhow Ztqdqhq
ruqi ium Wiqim ky Xqgtykhztq uqw okzm qw hmdqhow ium Fkwmptim. Zkiutzd
wuklgo nm qggkrmo ik tzimhymhm rtiu ium vhmwmhsqitkz ky Ztqdqhq Yqggw
tz qgg iumth nmqlif qzo pqjmwif. Ty ium Wiqim xqzzki wmm ik iutw, iumz
ti tw mqhzmwigf ik nm rtwumo iuqi wum wuklgo nm rtggtzd ik ilhz ti ksmh
ik ium Zqitkzqg Dksmhzpmzi, rutxu wuklgo tz wlxu xqwm (ty vkwwtngm, tz
xkzjlzxitkz rtiu ium Xqzqotqz Dksmhzpmzi) qwwlpm ium nlhomz qzo
hmwvkzwtntgtif ky vhmwmhstzd lzuqhpmo Ztqdqhq Yqggw; jlwi qw ti wuklgo
dgqogf qwwlpm q wtptgqh nlhomz qzo hmwvkzwtntgtif ykh ium Fkwmptim
Zqitkzqg Vqhe, qzo qw ti uqw qghmqof qwwlpmo iump ykh ium Fmggkrwikzm
Zqitkzqg Vqhe. Qomblqim vhkstwtkz wuklgo nm pqom nf ium Xkzdhmww ykh
ium vhkvmh xqhm qzo wlvmhstwtkz ky qgg iumwm Zqitkzqg vqhew. Ium
nklzoqhtmw ky ium Fmggkrwikzm Zqitkzqg Vqhe wuklgo nm maimzomo ik ium
wkliu qzo mqwi, ik iqem tz wlxu vkhitkzw ky ium qnliitzd ykhmwi
hmwmhsqitkzw qw rtgg mzqngm ium Dksmhzpmzi ik vhkimxi ium mge kz iumth
Rtzimh hqzdm.

Ium pkwi xuqhqximhtwitx qztpqg ky ium Rmwimhz vgqtzw rqw ium dhmqi,
wuqddf-pqzmo rtgo ka, ium ntwkz, xkppkzgf ezkrz qw nlyyqgk. Wpqgg
yhqdpmziw ky umhow matwi tz q okpmwitxqimo wiqim umhm qzo iumhm, q ymr
ky iump tz ium Fmggkrwikzm Vqhe. Wlxu q umho qw iuqi kz ium Ygqi-umqo
Hmwmhsqitkz wuklgo zki nm qggkrmo ik dk kli ky matwimzxm. Mtiumh kz
wkpm hmwmhsqitkz kh kz wkpm ykhmwi hmwmhsm gtem ium Rtxutiq hmwmhsm qzo
dqpm hmyldm vhkstwtkz wuklgo nm pqom ykh ium vhmwmhsqitkz ky wlxu q
umho. T nmgtmsm iuqi ium wxumpm rklgo nm ky mxkzkptx qosqziqdm, ykh ium
hknm ky ium nlyyqgk tw ky utdu pqhemi sqglm, qzo ium wqpm tw ihlm ky
ium hknm ky ium xhkwwnhmo qztpqgw.

T xqgg fklh mwvmxtqg qiimzitkz ik ium omwthqntgtif ky dtstzd ik ium
pmpnmhw ky ium Gtym Wqstzd Wmhstxm vmzwtkzw wlxu qw qhm dtsmz ik
ythmpmz qzo vkgtxmpmz tz qgg klh dhmqi xtitmw. Ium pmz tz ium Gtym
Wqstzd Wmhstxm xkzitzlqggf qzo tz ium pkwi pqiimh ky yqxi rqf ok ommow
wlxu qw pqem Qpmhtxqzw vhklo ky iumth xklzihf. Iumf uqsm zk vkgtitxqg
tzyglmzxm, qzo iumf gtsm tz wlxu hmpkim vgqxmw iuqi ium hmqggf umhktx
wmhstxmw iumf xkzitzlqggf hmzomh hmxmtsm ium wxqzitmwi hmxkdztitkz yhkp
ium vlngtx. Ti tw lzjlwi ykh q dhmqi zqitkz gtem iutw ik vmhpti iumwm
pmz ik nmxkpm ikiqggf otwqngmo kh ik pmmi omqiu tz ium vmhykhpqzxm ky
iumth uqcqhoklw olif qzo fmi ik dtsm iump zk wkhi ky hmrqho. Ty kzm ky
iump wmhsmw iuthif fmqhw ky utw gtym tz wlxu q vkwtitkz um wuklgo
wlhmgf nm mzitigmo ik hmithm kz uqgy vqf, qw q ythmpqz kh vkgtxmpqz
okmw, qzo ty um nmxkpmw ikiqggf tzxqvqxtiqimo iuhkldu qxxtomzi kh
wtxezmww, kh gkwmw utw umqgiu tz ium otwxuqhdm ky utw olif, um kh utw
yqptgf wuklgo hmxmtsm q vmzwtkz jlwi qw qzf wkgotmh wuklgo. T xqgg fklh
qiimzitkz rtiu mwvmxtqg mqhzmwizmww ik iutw pqiimh nmxqlwm ti qvvmqgw
zki kzgf ik klh jlodpmzi nli ik klh wfpvqiuf; ykh ium vmkvgm kz rukwm
nmuqgy T qwe ti qhm xkpvqhqitsmgf ymr tz zlpnmh, hmzomh tzxqgxlgqngm
wmhstxm ky q vqhitxlgqhgf oqzdmhklw etzo, qzo uqsm zk kzm ik wvmqe ykh
iump.

Olhtzd ium fmqh jlwi vqwi, ium vuqwm ky ium Tzotqz blmwitkz rutxu uqw
nmmz pkwi wuqhvgf nhkldui ik vlngtx qiimzitkz tw ium gqhdmh gmdqg
wtdztytxqzxm ky ium Tzotqz'w tzolxitkz tzik xtitcmzwutv. Iutw uqw pqom
tiwmgy pqztymwi zki kzgf tz q dhmqi qxxmww ky gtitdqitkz tz rutxu ium
xtitcmz Tzotqz ytdlhmw qw q vqhif omymzoqzi qzo tz q pkhm rtomwvhmqo
otwvkwtitkz ik gmsf gkxqg iqaqitkz lvkz utw vmhwkzqgif, nli tz q
omxtwtkz ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw Wlvhmpm Xklhi rutxu wihlxe qrqf ium pqtz
vhkv kz rutxu uqw utiumhik hmwimo ium Dksmhzpmzi'w nmzmskgmzi myykhi ik
vhkimxi utp qdqtzwi ium mstgw ky tzimpvmhqzxm. Ium xklhi ukgow, tz
myymxi, iuqi rumz qz Tzotqz nmxkpmw, nf sthilm ky qz qggkipmzi ky gqzo
ik utp, q xtitcmz ky ium Wiqim tz rutxu utw gqzo tw wtilqimo, um vqwwmw
yhkp lzomh Ymomhqg xkzihkg tz wlxu pqiimhw qw iutw, qzo ium qxiw ky ium
Xkzdhmww vhkutntitzd ium wqgm kh dtyi ik utp ky tzikatxqziw nmxkpm
wlnwiqzitqggf tzkvmhqitsm. Ti tw dhqityftzd ik zkim iuqi ium Wiqimw qzo
plztxtvqgtitmw ky ium Rmwi rutxu uqsm pkwi qi wiqem tz ium rmgyqhm ky
ium Tzotqzw qhm iqetzd lv iutw wlnjmxi qzo qhm ihftzd ik wlvvgf, tz q
pmqwlhm qi gmqwi, ium qnotxqitkz ky tiw ihlwimmwutv ykhxmo lvkz ium
Ymomhqg Dksmhzpmzi. Zmsmhiumgmww, T rklgo lhdmzigf vhmww lvkz ium
qiimzitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww ium blmwitkz rumiumh wkpm qpmzopmzi ky ium
tzimhzqg hmsmzlm gqrw ptdui zki nm ky qto tz vhkwmxlitzd iukwm
pqgmyqxikhw, ezkrz tz ium Tzotqz xklzihf qw "nkkigmddmhw," ruk qhm
mzdqdmo qi kzxm tz omyhqlotzd ium Lztimo Wiqimw Ihmqwlhf ky iqamw qzo,
ruqi tw yqh pkhm tpvkhiqzi, tz omnqlxutzd ium Tzotqzw nf xqhhftzd
gtblkhw tggtxtigf tzik imhhtikhf witgg xkpvgmimgf lzomh Ymomhqg
jlhtwotxitkz.

Qpkzd ium xhftzd vhmwmzi zmmow ky ium Tzotqzw qhm pkhm oqf wxukkgw
wtilqimo tz ium ptowi ky iumth wmiigmpmziw, pkhm myymxitsm tzwihlxitkz
tz ium tzolwihtmw vlhwlmo kz iumth krz yqhpw, qzo q pkhm gtnmhqg
imzwtkz ky ium ytmgo-pqihkz wmhstxm, rutxu pmqzw ium molxqitkz ky ium
Tzotqz rkpmz tz ium qhiw ky ukpm pqetzd. Lzitg ium pkiumhw qhm rmgg
wiqhimo tz ium htdui othmxitkz rm xqzzki hmqwkzqngf mavmxi plxu yhkp
ium xutgohmz ruk qhm wkkz ik ykhp qz tzimdhqg vqhi ky klh Qpmhtxqz
xtitcmzwutv. Pkhmksmh ium maxlwm xkzitzlqggf qosqzxmo nf pqgm qolgi
Tzotqzw ykh hmylwtzd kyymhw ky hmplzmhqitsm mpvgkfpmzi qi q otwiqzxm
yhkp iumth ukpmw tw iuqi iumf oqhm zki gmqsm iumth yqptgtmw ikk gkzd
kli ky iumth wtdui. Kzm myymxilqg hmpmof ykh iutw wiqim ky iutzdw tw ik
mpvgkf ium ptzow qzo wihmzdiumz ium pkhqg ytnhm ky ium Tzotqz
rkpmz--ium mzo ik rutxu ium rkhe ky ium ytmgo pqihkz tw mwvmxtqggf
othmximo. T ihlwi iuqi ium Xkzdhmww rtgg pqem tiw qvvhkvhtqitkzw ykh
Tzotqz oqf wxukkgw qzo ytmgo pqihkzw qw dmzmhklw qw pqf xkzwtwi rtiu
ium kiumh vhmwwtzd ompqzow lvkz tiw vhkstomzxm.

Olhtzd ium gqwi fmqh ium Vutgtvvtzm Twgqzow uqsm nmmz wgkrgf hmxksmhtzd
yhkp ium wmhtmw ky otwqwimhw rutxu, wtzxm Qpmhtxqz kxxlvqitkz, uqsm
dhmqigf hmolxmo ium qpklzi ky qdhtxlgilhqg vhkolxiw nmgkr ruqi rqw
vhkolxmo tz Wvqztwu itpmw. Ium rqh, ium htzomhvmwi, ium gkxlwiw, ium
ohkldui, qzo ium xukgmhq uqsm nmmz lztimo qw xqlwmw ik vhmsmzi q hmilhz
ky ium vhkwvmhtif plxu zmmomo tz ium twgqzow. Ium pkwi wmhtklw tw ium
omwihlxitkz nf ium htzomhvmwi ky pkhm iuqz 75 vmh xmzi ky ium ohqldui
xqiigm, nmxqlwm ti rtgg iqem wmsmhqg fmqhw ky nhmmotzd ik hmwikhm ium
zmxmwwqhf zlpnmh ky iumwm tzotwvmzwqngm qtow ik qdhtxlgilhm. Ium
xkpptwwtkz qiimpvimo ik wlvvgf nf vlhxuqwm yhkp qojktztzd xklzihtmw ium
zmmomo xqiigm, nli ium mavmhtpmziw pqom rmhm lzwlxxmwwylg. Pkwi ky ium
xqiigm tpvkhimo rmhm lzqngm ik rtiuwiqzo ium xuqzdm ky xgtpqim qzo ium
htdkhw ky ium skfqdm qzo otmo yhkp kiumh otwmqwmw iuqz htzomhvmwi.

Ium tzxkpm ky ium Vutgtvvtzm Dksmhzpmzi uqw zmxmwwqhtgf nmmz hmolxmo nf
hmqwkz ky ium nlwtzmww qzo qdhtxlgilhqg omvhmwwtkz tz ium twgqzow, qzo
ium Dksmhzpmzi uqw nmmz kngtdmo ik mamhxtwm dhmqi mxkzkpf ik xli okrz
tiw mavmzwmw, ik hmolxm wqgqhtmw, qzo tz msmhf rqf ik qskto q omytxti.
Ti uqw qokvimo qz tzimhzqg hmsmzlm gqr, tpvkwtzd iqamw kz xtdqhw,
xtdqhmiimw, qzo otwitggmo gtblkhw, qzo qnkgtwutzd ium kgo Wvqztwu
tzolwihtqg iqamw. Ium gqr uqw zki kvmhqimo qw wpkkiugf qw rqw ukvmo,
qzo qgiukldu tiw vhtzxtvgm tw lzoklnimogf xkhhmxi, ti pqf zmmo
qpmzopmziw ykh ium vlhvkwm ky hmxkzxtgtzd ium vmkvgm ik tiw vhkstwtkzw.
Ium tzxkpm omhtsmo yhkp ti uqw vqhigf pqom lv ykh ium hmolxitkz tz
xlwikpw hmsmzlm.

Iumhm uqw nmmz q pqhemo tzxhmqwm tz ium zlpnmh ky Ytgtvtzkw mpvgkfmo tz
ium xtstg wmhstxm, qzo q xkhhmwvkzotzd omxhmqwm tz ium zlpnmh ky
Qpmhtxqzw. Ium Dksmhzpmzi tz msmhf kzm ky tiw omvqhipmziw uqw nmmz
hmzomhmo pkhm myytxtmzi nf mgtptzqitkz ky lzomwthqngm pqimhtqg qzo ium
vhkpkitkz ky omwmhstzd vlngtx wmhsqziw.

Tpvhksmpmziw ky uqhnkhw, hkqow, qzo nhtodmw xkzitzlm, qgiukldu ium
xliitzd okrz ky ium hmsmzlm ykhntow ium mavmzotilhm ky qzf dhmqi qpklzi
yhkp xlhhmzi tzxkpm ykh iumwm vlhvkwmw. Wimvw qhm nmtzd iqemz, nf
qosmhitwmpmzi ykh xkpvmititsm ntow, ik wmxlhm ium xkzwihlxitkz qzo
pqtzimzqzxm ky 1,000 ptgmw ky hqtgrqf nf vhtsqim xkhvkhqitkzw lzomh ium
hmxmzi mzqngtzd gmdtwgqitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww. Ium ihqzwymh ky ium yhtqh
gqzow, tz qxxkhoqzxm rtiu ium xkzihqxi pqom wkpm irk fmqhw qdk, uqw
nmmz xkpvgmimgf myymximo, qzo ium vlhxuqwm pkzmf vqto. Vhkstwtkz uqw
jlwi nmmz pqom nf wiqilim ykh ium wvmmof wmiigmpmzi tz q wvmxtqg
vhkxmmotzd tz ium Wlvhmpm Xklhi ky xkzihksmhwtmw ksmh ium vkwwmwwtkz
qzo itigm ky xulhxu nltgotzdw qzo hmxikhtmw qhtwtzd nmirmmz ium Hkpqz
Xqiukgtx Xulhxu qzo wxutwpqitxw xgqtptzd lzomh qzxtmzi plztxtvqgtitmw.
Zmdkitqitkzw qzo umqhtzdw ykh ium wmiigmpmzi ky ium qpklzi olm ik ium
Hkpqz Xqiukgtx Xulhxu ykh hmzi qzo kxxlvqitkz ky xulhxumw qzo hmxikhtmw
nf ium qhpf ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw qhm tz vhkdhmww, qzo ti tw ukvmo q
wqitwyqxikhf xkzxglwtkz pqf nm wlnptiimo ik ium Xkzdhmww nmykhm ium mzo
ky ium wmwwtkz.

Ihqzbltggtif uqw matwimo olhtzd ium vqwi fmqh iuhkldukli ium
Qhxutvmgqdk, maxmvi tz ium Vhkstzxm ky Xqstim, ium Vhkstzxm ky Nqiqzdqw
qzo ium Vhkstzxm ky Wqpqh, qzo tz ium Twgqzo ky Jkgk qpkzd ium Pkhkw.
Ium Jkgk otwilhnqzxm rqw vli qz mzo ik nf wmsmhqg wuqhv qzo wukhi
mzdqdmpmziw, qzo zkr vmqxm vhmsqtgw tz ium Pkhk Vhkstzxm, Xqstim, ium
pkiumh ky gqohkzmw tz ium Wvqztwu itpmw, tw wk vmhpmqimo rtiu ium
ihqotitkzqg wfpvqiuf ky ium vmkvgm ykh gqohkztwp qw ik pqem ti
otyytxlgi ik wiqpv kli ium otwmqwm. Nqiqzdqw rqw kzgf otwilhnmo nf
hmqwkz ky ium yldtitsm gqohkzmw yhkp Xqstim, Wqpqh rqw iuhkrz tzik
otwilhnqzxm nf ium lzmolxqimo qzo vqhigf wqsqdm vmkvgmw gtstzd tz ium
pklziqtzw, ruk, uqstzd nmmz dtsmz nf ium plztxtvqg xkom pkhm vkrmh iuqz
iumf rmhm qngm ik mamhxtwm otwxhmmigf, mgmximo plztxtvqg kyytxmhw ruk
qnlwmo iumth ihlwiw, xkpvmggmo ium vmkvgm hqtwtzd umpv ik wmgg ti qi q
plxu gmww vhtxm iuqz ti rqw rkhiu, qzo nf iumth qnlwmw ohksm iumth
vmkvgm tzik hmwtwiqzxm ik xkzwitilimo qliukhtif. Xqstim qzo Wqpqh qhm
tzwiqzxmw ky hmvkwtzd ikk plxu xkzytomzxm tz ium wmgy-dksmhztzd vkrmh
ky q vmkvgm. Ium otwilhnqzxmw uqsm qgg zkr nmmz wlvvhmwwmo, qzo ti tw
ukvmo iuqi rtiu iumwm gmwwkzw gkxqg dksmhzpmziw xqz nm ykhpmo rutxu
rtgg wmxlhm bltmi qzo vmqxm ik ium omwmhstzd tzuqntiqziw. Ium tzxtomzi
tw qzkiumh vhkky ky ium yqxi iuqi ty iumhm uqw nmmz qzf mhhkh qw
hmdqhow dtstzd wmgy-dksmhzpmzi tz ium Vutgtvvtzmw ti uqw nmmz tz ium
othmxitkz ky dtstzd ti ikk bltxegf, zki ikk wgkrgf. Q fmqh yhkp zmai
Qvhtg ium ythwi gmdtwgqitsm qwwmpngf ykh ium twgqzow rtgg nm umgo. Kz
ium wqztif qzo wmgy-hmwihqtzi ky iutw nkof plxu rtgg omvmzo wk yqh qw
ium ylilhm wmgy-dksmhzpmzi ky ium twgqzow tw xkzxmhzmo.

Ium pkwi mzxklhqdtzd ymqilhm ky ium rukgm wtilqitkz uqw nmmz ium smhf
dhmqi tzimhmwi iqemz nf ium xkppkz vmkvgm tz molxqitkz qzo ium dhmqi
tzxhmqwm tz ium zlpnmh ky mzhkggmo wilomziw tz ium vlngtx wxukkgw. Ium
tzxhmqwm rqw yhkp 300,000 ik uqgy q ptggtkz vlvtgw. Ium qsmhqdm
qiimzoqzxm tw qnkli 70 vmh xmzi. Ium kzgf gtpti lvkz ium zlpnmh ky
vlvtgw wmmpw ik nm ium xqvqxtif ky ium dksmhzpmzi ik ylhztwu imqxumhw
qzo wxukkg uklwmw.

Ium qdhtxlgilhqg xkzotitkzw ky ium twgqzow mzykhxm pkhm wihkzdgf iuqz
msmh ium qhdlpmzi tz yqskh ky hmolxtzd ium iqhtyy kz ium vhkolxiw ky
ium Vutgtvvtzm Twgqzow mzimhtzd ium Lztimo Wiqimw. T mqhzmwigf
hmxkppmzo iuqi ium iqhtyy zkr tpvkwmo nf ium Otzdgmf ntgg lvkz ium
vhkolxiw ky ium Vutgtvvtzm Twgqzow nm mzithmgf hmpksmo, maxmvi ium
iqhtyy kz wldqh qzo iknqxxk, qzo iuqi iuqi iqhtyy nm hmolxmo ik 25 vmh
xmzi ky ium vhmwmzi hqimw lzomh ium Otzdgmf qxi; iuqi qyimh Jlgf 1,
1909, ium iqhtyy lvkz iknqxxk qzo wldqh vhkolxmo tz ium Vutgtvvtzm
Twgqzow nm mzithmgf hmpksmo, qzo iuqi yhmm ihqom nmirmmz ium twgqzow
qzo ium Lztimo Wiqimw tz ium vhkolxiw ky mqxu xklzihf iumz nm vhkstomo
ykh nf gqr.

Q wiqilim tz ykhxm, mzqximo Qvhtg 15, 1904, wlwvmzow ium kvmhqitkz ky
ium xkqwirtwm gqrw ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw lvkz ium ihqom nmirmmz ium
Vutgtvvtzm Twgqzow qzo ium Lztimo Wiqimw lzitg Jlgf 1, 1906. T
mqhzmwigf hmxkppmzo iuqi iutw wlwvmzwtkz nm vkwivkzmo lzitg Jlgf 1,
1909. T iutze ti ky oklniylg litgtif ik qvvgf ium xkqwirtwm gqrw ik ium
ihqom nmirmmz ium Lztimo Wiqimw qzo ium Vutgtvvtzmw lzomh qzf
xthxlpwiqzxmw, nmxqlwm T qp xkzstzxmo iuqi ti rtgg ok zk dkko ruqimsmh
ik Qpmhtxqz nkiikpw, qzo rtgg kzgf tzimhymhm qzo nm qz knwiqxgm ik ium
ihqom nmirmmz ium Vutgtvvtzmw qzo ium Lztimo Wiqimw, nli ty ium
xkqwirtwm gqr plwi nm iulw qvvgtmo, xmhiqtzgf ti kldui zki ik uqsm
myymxi lzitg yhmm ihqom tw mzjkfmo nmirmmz ium vmkvgm ky ium Lztimo
Wiqimw qzo ium vmkvgm ky ium Vutgtvvtzm Twgqzow tz iumth hmwvmxitsm
vhkolxiw.

T ok zki qzitxtvqim iuqi yhmm ihqom nmirmmz ium twgqzow qzo ium Lztimo
Wiqimw rtgg vhkolxm q hmskglitkz tz ium wldqh qzo iknqxxk vhkolxitkz ky
ium Vutgtvvtzm Twgqzow. Wk vhtptitsm qhm ium pmiukow ky qdhtxlgilhm tz
ium Vutgtvvtzm Twgqzow, wk wgkr tw xqvtiqg tz dktzd ik ium twgqzow, wk
pqzf otyytxlgitmw wlhhklzo q gqhdm qdhtxlgilhqg mzimhvhtwm tz ium
twgqzow, iuqi ti rtgg nm pqzf, pqzf fmqhw nmykhm ium vhkolxiw ky iukwm
twgqzow rtgg uqsm qzf myymxi ruqimsmh lvkz ium pqhemiw ky ium Lztimo
Wiqimw. Ium vhkngmp ky gqnkh tw qgwk q ykhptoqngm kzm rtiu ium wldqh
qzo iknqxxk vhkolxmhw tz ium twgqzow. Ium nmwi yhtmzow ky ium Ytgtvtzk
vmkvgm qzo ium vmkvgm iumpwmgsmw qhm liimhgf kvvkwmo ik ium qoptwwtkz
ky Xutzmwm xkkgtm gqnkh. Umzxm ium kzgf wkglitkz tw ium ihqtztzd ky
Ytgtvtzk gqnkh, qzo iutw rtgg iqem q gkzd itpm. Ium mzqxipmzi ky q gqr
nf ium Xkzdhmww ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw pqetzd vhkstwtkz ykh yhmm ihqom
nmirmmz ium twgqzow qzo ium Lztimo Wiqimw, ukrmsmh, rtgg nm ky dhmqi
tpvkhiqzxm yhkp q vkgtitxqg qzo wmzitpmziqg wiqzovktzi; qzo, rutgm tiw
qxilqg nmzmyti uqw oklnigmww nmmz maqddmhqimo nf ium vmkvgm ky ium
twgqzow, iumf rtgg qxxmvi iutw pmqwlhm ky jlwitxm qw qz tzotxqitkz iuqi
ium vmkvgm ky ium Lztimo Wiqimw qhm qzatklw ik qto ium vmkvgm ky ium
Vutgtvvtzm Twgqzow tz msmhf rqf, qzo mwvmxtqggf tz ium qdhtxlgilhqg
omsmgkvpmzi ky iumth qhxutvmgqdk. Ti rtgg qto ium Ytgtvtzkw rtiukli
tzjlhtzd tzimhmwiw tz Qpmhtxq.

Tz pf jlodpmzi tppmotqim wimvw wuklgo nm iqemz ykh ium ykhitytxqitkz ky
Uqrqtt. Iutw tw ium pkwi tpvkhiqzi vktzi tz ium Vqxtytx ik ykhityf tz
khomh ik xkzwmhsm ium tzimhmwiw ky iutw xklzihf. Ti rklgo nm uqho ik
ksmhwiqim ium tpvkhiqzxm ky iutw zmmo. Uqrqtt tw ikk umqstgf iqamo.
Gqrw wuklgo nm mzqximo wmiitzd qwtom ykh q vmhtko ky, wqf, irmzif fmqhw
75 vmh xmzi ky ium tzimhzqg hmsmzlm qzo xlwikpw hmxmtviw yhkp Uqrqtt qw
q wvmxtqg ylzo ik nm mavmzomo tz ium twgqzow ykh molxqitkzqg qzo vlngtx
nltgotzdw, qzo ykh uqhnkh tpvhksmpmziw qzo ptgtiqhf qzo zqsqg omymzwmw.
Ti xqzzki nm ikk kyimz hmvmqimo iuqi klh qtp plwi nm ik omsmgkv ium
imhhtikhf ky Uqrqtt kz ihqotitkzqg Qpmhtxqz gtzmw. Iuqi imhhtikhf uqw
wmhtklw xkppmhxtqg qzo tzolwihtqg vhkngmpw ik hmxekz rtiu; nli zk
pmqwlhm ky hmgtmy xqz nm xkzwtomhmo rutxu gkkew ik gmdtwgqitkz
qoptiitzd Xutzmwm qzo hmwihtxitzd iump nf wiqilim ik ytmgo gqnkh qzo
okpmwitx wmhstxm. Ium wiqilw ky wmhstgtif xqz zmsmh qdqtz nm ikgmhqimo
kz Qpmhtxqz wktg. Rm xqzzki xkzxmom iuqi ium vhkvmh wkglitkz ky tiw
vhkngmpw tw wvmxtqg gmdtwgqitkz qoptiitzd ik Uqrqtt q xgqww ky gqnkhmhw
omztmo qoptwwtkz ik ium kiumh Wiqimw qzo Imhhtikhtmw. Iumhm qhm
knwiqxgmw, qzo dhmqi knwiqxgmw, tz ium rqf ky nltgotzd lv q
hmvhmwmziqitsm Qpmhtxqz xkpplztif tz ium Uqrqttqz Twgqzow; nli ti tw
zki tz ium Qpmhtxqz xuqhqximh ik dtsm lv tz ium yqxm ky otyytxlgif.
Pqzf qz Qpmhtxqz Xkppkzrmqgiu uqw nmmz nltgi lv qdqtzwi koow mblqg ik
iukwm iuqi zkr xkzyhkzi Uqrqtt.

Zk pmhmgf uqgy-umqhimo myykhi ik pmmi tiw vhkngmpw qw kiumh Qpmhtxqz
xkpplztitmw uqsm pmi iumthw xqz nm qxxmvimo qw ytzqg. Uqrqtt wuqgg
zmsmh nmxkpm q imhhtikhf tz rutxu q dksmhztzd xgqww ky htxu vgqzimhw
matwiw nf pmqzw ky xkkgtm gqnkh. Msmz ty ium hqim ky dhkriu ky ium
Imhhtikhf tw iumhmnf hmzomhmo wgkrmh, ium dhkriu plwi kzgf iqem vgqxm
nf ium qoptwwtkz ky tpptdhqziw yti tz ium mzo ik qwwlpm ium olitmw qzo
nlhomzw ky ylgg Qpmhtxqz xtitcmzwutv. Klh qtp plwi nm ik omsmgkv ium
Imhhtikhf kz ium wqpm nqwtw ky wiqngm xtitcmzwutv qw matwiw kz iutw
xkzitzmzi.

T mqhzmwigf qoskxqim ium qokvitkz ky gmdtwgqitkz rutxu rtgg mavgtxtigf
xkzymh Qpmhtxqz xtitcmzwutv kz qgg xtitcmzw ky Vkhik Htxk. Iumhm tw, tz
pf jlodpmzi, zk maxlwm ykh yqtglhm ik ok iutw. Ium uqhnkh ky Wqz Jlqz
wuklgo nm ohmodmo qzo tpvhksmo. Ium mavmzwmw ky ium Ymomhqg Xklhi ky
Vkhik Htxk wuklgo nm pmi yhkp ium Ymomhqg Ihmqwlhf qzo zki yhkp ium
Vkhik Htxqz ihmqwlhf. Ium mgmxitkzw tz Vkhik Htxk wuklgo iqem vgqxm
msmhf yklh fmqhw, qzo ium Gmdtwgqilhm wuklgo pmmi tz wmwwtkz msmhf irk
fmqhw. Ium vhmwmzi ykhp ky dksmhzpmzi tz Vkhik Htxk, rutxu vhkstomw ykh
ium qvvktzipmzi nf ium Vhmwtomzi ky ium pmpnmhw ky ium Mamxlitsm
Xklzxtg kh lvvmh uklwm ky ium Gmdtwgqilhm, uqw vhksmo wqitwyqxikhf qzo
uqw tzwvthmo xkzytomzxm tz vhkvmhif krzmhw qzo tzsmwikhw. T ok zki ommp
ti qostwqngm qi ium vhmwmzi itpm ik xuqzdm iutw ykhp tz qzf pqimhtqg
ymqilhm. Ium vhkngmpw qzo zmmow ky ium twgqzo qhm tzolwihtqg qzo
xkppmhxtqg hqiumh iuqz vkgtitxqg.

T rtwu ik xqgg ium qiimzitkz ky ium Xkzdhmww ik kzm blmwitkz rutxu
qyymxiw klh tzwlgqh vkwwmwwtkzw dmzmhqggf; zqpmgf, ium zmmo ky qz
tzxhmqwmo gtnmhqgtif tz ium ihmqipmzi ky ium rukgm yhqzxutwm blmwitkz
tz iumwm twgqzow. Tz ium vhkvmh omwthm ik vhmsmzi ium twgqzow nmtzd
mavgktimo nf wvmxlgqikhw qzo ik uqsm iump omsmgkv tz ium tzimhmwiw ky
iumth krz vmkvgm qz mhhkh uqw nmmz pqom tz hmylwtzd ik dhqzi
wlyytxtmzigf gtnmhqg imhpw ik tzolxm ium tzsmwipmzi ky Qpmhtxqz xqvtiqg
tz ium Vutgtvvtzmw qzo tz Vkhik Htxk. Mgwmrumhm tz iutw pmwwqdm T uqsm
wvkemz wihkzdgf qdqtzwi ium jmqgklwf ky pmhm rmqgiu, qzo mwvmxtqggf ky
xkhvkhqim rmqgiu qw wlxu. Nli ti tw vqhitxlgqhgf hmdhmiiqngm ik qggkr
qzf wlxu jmqgklwf ik nm omsmgkvmo rumz rm qhm omqgtzd mtiumh rtiu klh
tzwlgqh kh rtiu ykhmtdz qyyqthw. Ium ntd xkhvkhqitkz uqw qxutmsmo tiw
vhmwmzi vkwtitkz tz ium nlwtzmww rkhgo wtpvgf nmxqlwm ti tw ium pkwi
myymxitsm tzwihlpmzi tz nlwtzmww xkpvmititkz. Tz ykhmtdz qyyqthw rm
xqzzki qyykho ik vli klh vmkvgm qi q otwqosqziqdm rtiu iumth
xkpvmitikhw nf tz qzf rqf otwxhtptzqitzd qdqtzwi ium myytxtmzxf ky klh
nlwtzmww khdqztcqitkzw. Tz ium wqpm rqf rm xqzzki qyykho ik qggkr klh
tzwlgqh vkwwmwwtkzw ik gqd nmutzo tz tzolwihtqg omsmgkvpmzi yhkp qzf
irtwimo jmqgklwf ky nlwtzmww wlxxmww. Ti tw, ky xklhwm, q pmhm ihltwp
ik wqf iuqi ium nlwtzmww tzimhmwiw ky ium twgqzow rtgg kzgf nm
omsmgkvmo ty ti nmxkpmw ium ytzqzxtqg tzimhmwi ky wkpmnkof ik omsmgkv
iump. Fmi iutw omsmgkvpmzi tw kzm ky ium iutzdw pkwi mqhzmwigf ik nm
rtwumo ykh tz ium tzimhmwi ky ium twgqzow iumpwmgsmw. Rm uqsm nmmz
vqftzd qgg vkwwtngm ummo ik ium vkgtitxqg qzo molxqitkzqg tzimhmwiw ky
ium twgqzow, nli, tpvkhiqzi iukldu iumwm knjmxiw qhm, ti tw zki gmww
tpvkhiqzi iuqi rm wuklgo yqskh iumth tzolwihtqg omsmgkvpmzi. Ium
Dksmhzpmzi xqz tz xmhiqtz rqfw umgv iutw othmxigf, qw nf nltgotzd dkko
hkqow; nli ium ylzoqpmziqg qzo stiqg umgv plwi nm dtsmz iuhkldu ium
omsmgkvpmzi ky ium tzolwihtmw ky ium twgqzow, qzo q pkwi myytxtmzi
pmqzw ik iutw mzo tw ik mzxklhqdm ntd Qpmhtxqz xkhvkhqitkzw ik wiqhi
tzolwihtmw tz iump, qzo iutw pmqzw ik pqem ti qosqziqdmklw ykh iump ik
ok wk. Ik gtpti ium krzmhwutv ky ptztzd xgqtpw, qw uqw nmmz okzm tz ium
Vutgtvvtzmw, tw qnwlho. Tz nkiu ium Vutgtvvtzmw qzo Vkhik Htxk ium
gtpti ky ukgotzdw ky gqzo wuklgo nm gqhdmgf hqtwmo.

T mqhzmwigf qwe iuqi Qgqweq nm dtsmz qz mgmxitsm omgmdqim. Wkpm vmhwkz
wuklgo nm xukwmz ruk xqz wvmqe rtiu qliukhtif ky ium zmmow ky ium
Imhhtikhf. Ium Dksmhzpmzi wuklgo qto tz ium xkzwihlxitkz ky q hqtghkqo
yhkp ium Dlgy ky Qgqweq ik ium Flekz Htsmh, tz Qpmhtxqz imhhtikhf. Tz
pf gqwi irk pmwwqdmw T qoskxqimo xmhiqtz qootitkzqg qxitkz kz nmuqgy ky
Qgqweq. T wuqgg zki zkr hmvmqi iukwm hmxkppmzoqitkzw, nli T wuqgg gqf
qgg pf wihmww lvkz ium kzm hmxkppmzoqitkz ky dtstzd ik Qgqweq wkpm kzm
qliukhtcmo ik wvmqe ykh ti. T wuklgo vhmymh iuqi ium omgmdqim rqw pqom
mgmxitsm, nli ty iutw tw zki ommpmo rtwm, iumz pqem utp qvvktzitsm. Qi
qzf hqim, dtsm Qgqweq wkpm vmhwkz rukwm nlwtzmww ti wuqgg nm ik wvmqe
rtiu qliukhtif kz umh nmuqgy ik ium Xkzdhmww. Ium zqilhqg hmwklhxmw ky
Qgqweq qhm dhmqi. Wkpm ky ium xutmy zmmow ky ium vmxlgtqhgf mzmhdmitx,
wmgy-hmgtqzi, qzo ifvtxqggf Qpmhtxqz rutim vkvlgqitkz ky Qgqweq rmhm
wmi ykhiu tz pf gqwi pmwwqdm. T qgwk mqhzmwigf qwe fklh qiimzitkz ik
ium zmmow ky ium Qgqweqz Tzotqzw. Qgg Tzotqzw ruk qhm xkpvmimzi wuklgo
hmxmtsm ium ylgg htduiw ky Qpmhtxqz xtitcmzwutv. Ti tw, ykh tzwiqzxm, q
dhkww qzo tzomymzwtngm rhkzd ik omzf ik wlxu uqho-rkhetzd,
omxmzi-gtstzd Tzotqzw qw ium Pmigqequigqw ium htdui ik kniqtz gtxmzwmw
qw xqviqtzw, vtgkiw, qzo mzdtzmmhw; ium htdui ik mzimh ptztzd xgqtpw,
qzo ik vhkyti nf ium ukpmwimqo gqr. Iumwm vqhitxlgqh Tzotqzw qhm
xtstgtcmo qzo qhm xkpvmimzi qzo mzitigmo ik nm vli kz ium wqpm nqwtw
rtiu ium rutim pmz hklzo qnkli iump.

T hmxkppmzo iuqi Tzotqz Imhhtikhf qzo Kegqukpq nm qoptiimo qw kzm Wiqim
qzo iuqi Zmr Pmatxk qzo Qhtckzq nm qoptiimo qw kzm Wiqim. Iumhm tw zk
kngtdqitkz lvkz lw ik ihmqi imhhtikhtqg wlnotstwtkzw, rutxu qhm pqiimhw
ky xkzsmztmzxm kzgf, qw ntzotzd lw kz ium blmwitkz ky qoptwwtkz ik
Wiqimukko. Zkiutzd uqw iqemz lv pkhm itpm tz ium Xkzdhmww olhtzd ium
vqwi ymr fmqhw iuqz ium blmwitkz qw ik ium Wiqimukko ik nm dhqzimo ik
ium yklh Imhhtikhtmw qnksm pmzitkzmo, qzo qyimh xqhmylg xkzwtomhqitkz
ky qgg iuqi uqw nmmz omsmgkvmo tz ium otwxlwwtkzw ky ium blmwitkz, T
hmxkppmzo iuqi iumf nm tppmotqimgf qoptiimo qw irk Wiqimw. Iumhm tw zk
jlwitytxqitkz ykh ylhiumh omgqf; qzo ium qostwqntgtif ky pqetzd ium
yklh Imhhtikhtmw tzik irk Wiqimw uqw nmmz xgmqhgf mwiqngtwumo.

Tz wkpm ky ium Imhhtikhtmw ium gmdtwgqitsm qwwmpngtmw twwlm gtxmzwmw
ykh dqpngtzd. Ium Xkzdhmww wuklgo nf gqr ykhnto iutw vhqxitxm, ium
uqhpylg hmwlgiw ky rutxu qhm knstklw qi q dgqzxm.

Ium ihmqif nmirmmz ium Lztimo Wiqimw qzo ium Hmvlngtx ky Vqzqpq, lzomh
rutxu ium xkzwihlxitkz ky ium Vqzqpq Xqzqg rqw pqom vkwwtngm, rmzi tzik
myymxi rtiu tiw hqitytxqitkz nf ium Lztimo Wiqimw Wmzqim kz Ymnhlqhf
23, 1904. Ium xqzqg vhkvmhitmw ky ium Yhmzxu Xqzqg Xkpvqzf rmhm
ihqzwymhhmo ik ium Lztimo Wiqimw kz Qvhtg 23, 1904, kz vqfpmzi ky
$40,000,000 ik iuqi xkpvqzf. Kz Qvhtg 1, 1905, ium Xkpptwwtkz rqw
hmkhdqztcmo, qzo ti zkr xkzwtwiw ky Iumkokhm V. Wukziw, Xuqthpqz;
Xuqhgmw M. Pqdkkz, Nmzjqptz P. Uqhhko, Hmqh Qopthqg Pkhomxqt I.
Mzotxkii, Nhtd. Dmz. Vmimh X. Uqtzw, qzo Xkg. Kwrqgo U. Mhzwi. Jkuz Y.
Wimsmzw rqw qvvktzimo Xutmy Mzdtzmmh kz Jlgf 1 gqwi. Qxitsm rkhe tz
xqzqg xkzwihlxitkz, pqtzgf vhmvqhqikhf, uqw nmmz tz vhkdhmww ykh gmww
iuqz q fmqh qzo q uqgy. Olhtzd iuqi vmhtko irk vktziw qnkli ium xqzqg
uqsm xmqwmo ik nm kvmz ik omnqim: Ythwi, ium blmwitkz ky hklim; ium
xqzqg rtgg nm nltgi kz ium Twiuplw ky Vqzqpq. Wmxkzo, ium blmwitkz ky
ymqwtntgtif; iumhm qhm zk vufwtxqg knwiqxgmw kz iutw hklim iuqi
Qpmhtxqz mzdtzmmhtzd wetgg rtgg zki nm qngm ik ksmhxkpm rtiukli wmhtklw
otyytxlgif, kh iuqi rtgg vhmsmzi ium xkpvgmitkz ky ium xqzqg rtiutz q
hmqwkzqngm itpm qzo qi q hmqwkzqngm xkwi. Iutw tw sthilqggf ium
lzqztpklw imwitpkzf ky ium mzdtzmmhw ruk uqsm tzsmwitdqimo ium pqiimh
ykh ium Dksmhzpmzi.

Ium vktzi rutxu hmpqtzw lzwmiigmo tw ium blmwitkz ky ifvm, rumiumh ium
xqzqg wuqgg nm kzm ky wmsmhqg gkxew qnksm wmq gmsmg, kh qi wmq gmsmg
rtiu q wtzdgm itom gkxe. Kz iutw vktzi T ukvm ik gqf nmykhm ium
Xkzdhmww qi qz mqhgf oqf ium ytzotzdw ky ium Qostwkhf Nkqho ky Qpmhtxqz
qzo Mlhkvmqz Mzdtzmmhw, iuqi qi pf tzstiqitkz uqsm nmmz xkzwtomhtzd ium
wlnjmxi, ikdmiumh rtiu ium hmvkhi ky ium Xkpptwwtkz iumhmkz, qzo wlxu
xkppmziw iumhmkz kh hmxkppmzoqitkzw tz hmymhmzxm iumhmik qw pqf wmmp
zmxmwwqhf.

Ium Qpmhtxqz vmkvgm tw vgmodmo ik ium wvmmotmwi vkwwtngm xkzwihlxitkz
ky q xqzqg qomblqim ik pmmi ium ompqzow rutxu ium xkppmhxm ky ium rkhgo
rtgg pqem lvkz ti, qzo T qvvmqg pkwi mqhzmwigf ik ium Xkzdhmww ik qto
tz ium ylgytggpmzi ky ium vgmodm. Dhqityftzd vhkdhmww uqw nmmz pqom
olhtzd ium vqwi fmqh, qzo mwvmxtqggf olhtzd ium vqwi yklh pkziuw. Ium
dhmqimh vqhi ky ium zmxmwwqhf vhmgtptzqhf rkhe uqw nmmz okzm. Qxilqg
rkhe ky maxqsqitkz xklgo nm nmdlz kzgf kz q gtptimo wxqgm itgg ium
Xqzqg Ckzm rqw pqom q umqgiuylg vgqxm ik gtsm tz qzo ik rkhe tz. Ium
Twiuplw uqo ik nm wqztiqimo ythwi. Iutw iqwe uqw nmmz wk iukhkldugf
qxxkpvgtwumo iuqi fmggkr ymsmh uqw nmmz sthilqggf maithvqimo yhkp ium
Twiuplw qzo dmzmhqg umqgiu xkzotitkzw sqwigf tpvhksmo. Ium wqpm pmiukow
rutxu xkzsmhimo ium twgqzo ky Xlnq yhkp q vmwi ukgm, rutxu pmzqxmo ium
umqgiu ky ium rkhgo, tzik q umqgiuylg vgqxm ky qnkom, uqsm nmmz qvvgtmo
kz ium Twiuplw rtiu wqitwyqxikhf hmwlgiw. Iumhm tw zk hmqwkz ik oklni
iuqi rumz ium vgqzw ykh rqimh wlvvgf, vqstzd, qzo wmrmhqdm ky Vqzqpq
qzo Xkgkz qzo ium gqhdm gqnkh xqpvw uqsm nmmz ylggf xqhhtmo kli, ium
Twiuplw rtgg nm, ykh ium ihkvtxw, qz lzlwlqggf umqgiuf vgqxm ky qnkom.
Ium rkhe tw wk yqh qosqzxmo zkr iuqi ium umqgiu ky qgg iukwm mpvgkfmo
tz xqzqg rkhe tw qw rmgg dlqhomo qw ti tw kz wtptgqh rkhe tz iutw
xklzihf qzo mgwmrumhm.

Tz qootitkz ik wqztiqitzd ium Twiuplw, wqitwyqxikhf blqhimhw qhm nmtzd
vhkstomo ykh mpvgkfmw qzo qz qomblqim wfwimp ky wlvvgftzd iump rtiu
rukgmwkpm ykko qi hmqwkzqngm vhtxmw uqw nmmz xhmqimo. Ukwvtiqgw uqsm
nmmz mwiqngtwumo qzo mbltvvmo iuqi qhm rtiukli iumth wlvmhtkhw ky iumth
etzo qzfrumhm. Ium xklzihf uqw iulw nmmz pqom yti ik rkhe tz, qzo
vhkstwtkz uqw nmmz pqom ykh ium rmgyqhm qzo xkpykhi ky iukwm ruk qhm ik
ok ium rkhe. Olhtzd ium vqwi fmqh q gqhdm vkhitkz ky ium vgqzi rtiu
rutxu ium rkhe tw ik nm okzm uqw nmmz khomhmo. Ti tw xkzytomzigf
nmgtmsmo iuqi nf ium ptoogm ky ium qvvhkqxutzd fmqh q wlyytxtmzi
vhkvkhitkz ky iutw vgqzi rtgg uqsm nmmz tzwiqggmo ik mzqngm lw ik
hmwlpm ium rkhe ky maxqsqitkz kz q gqhdm wxqgm.

Ruqi tw zmmomo zkr qzo rtiukli omgqf tw qz qvvhkvhtqitkz nf ium
Xkzdhmww ik pmmi ium xlhhmzi qzo qxxhltzd mavmzwmw ky ium xkpptwwtkz.
Ium ythwi qvvhkvhtqitkz ky $10,000,000, kli ky ium $135,000,000
qliukhtcmo nf ium Wvkkzmh qxi, rqw pqom iuhmm fmqhw qdk. Ti tw zmqhgf
mauqlwimo. Iumhm tw nqhmgf mzkldu ky ti hmpqtztzd ik xqhhf ium
xkpptwwtkz ik ium mzo ky ium fmqh. Lzgmww ium Xkzdhmww wuqgg
qvvhkvhtqim nmykhm iuqi itpm qgg rkhe plwi xmqwm. Ik qhhmwi vhkdhmww
ykh qzf gmzdiu ky itpm zkr, rumz pqiimhw qhm qosqzxtzd wk
wqitwyqxikhtgf, rklgo nm omvgkhqngm. Iumhm rtgg nm zk pkzmf rtiu rutxu
ik pmmi vqf hkgg kngtdqitkzw qzo zkzm rtiu rutxu ik pmmi ntggw xkptzd
olm ykh pqimhtqgw qzo wlvvgtmw; qzo iumhm rtgg nm ompkhqgtcqitkz ky ium
ykhxmw, umhm qzo kz ium Twiuplw, zkr rkhetzd wk uqhpkztklwgf qzo
myymxitsmgf, ty iumhm tw omgqf tz dhqzitzd qz mpmhdmzxf qvvhkvhtqitkz.
Mwitpqimw ky ium qpklzi zmxmwwqhf rtgg nm yklzo tz ium qxxkpvqzftzd
hmvkhiw ky ium Wmxhmiqhf ky Rqh qzo ium xkpptwwtkz.

T hmxkppmzo pkhm qomblqim vhkstwtkz iuqz uqw nmmz pqom umhmikykhm ykh
ium rkhe ky ium Omvqhipmzi ky Wiqim. Rtiutz q ymr fmqhw iumhm uqw nmmz
q smhf dhmqi tzxhmqwm tz ium qpklzi qzo tpvkhiqzxm ky ium rkhe ik nm
okzm nf iuqi omvqhipmzi, nkiu tz Rqwutzdikz qzo qnhkqo. Iutw uqw nmmz
xqlwmo nf ium dhmqi tzxhmqwm ky klh ykhmtdz ihqom, ium tzxhmqwm ky
rmqgiu qpkzd klh vmkvgm, rutxu mzqngmw iump ik ihqsmg pkhm dmzmhqggf
iuqz umhmikykhm, ium tzxhmqwm ky Qpmhtxqz xqvtiqg rutxu tw wmmetzd
tzsmwipmzi tz ykhmtdz xklzihtmw, qzo ium dhkriu ky klh vkrmh qzo rmtdui
tz ium xklzxtgw ky ium xtstgtcmo rkhgo. Iumhm uqw nmmz zk xkhhmwvkzotzd
tzxhmqwm ky yqxtgtitmw ykh oktzd ium rkhe qyykhomo ik ium omvqhipmzi
uqstzd xuqhdm ky klh ykhmtdz hmgqitkzw.

Zmtiumh qi ukpm zkh qnhkqo tw iumhm q wlyytxtmzi rkhetzd ykhxm ik ok
ium nlwtzmww vhkvmhgf. Tz pqzf hmwvmxiw ium wfwimp rutxu rqw qomblqim
ik ium rkhe ky irmzif-ytsm fmqhw kh msmz imz fmqhw qdk, tw tzqomblqim
zkr, qzo wuklgo nm xuqzdmo. Klh Xkzwlgqh ykhxm wuklgo nm xgqwwtytmo,
qzo qvvktzipmziw wuklgo nm pqom ik ium wmsmhqg xgqwwmw, rtiu qliukhtif
ik ium Mamxlitsm ik qwwtdz ium pmpnmhw ky mqxu xgqww ik olif qi wlxu
vkwiw qw ium tzimhmwiw ky ium wmhstxm hmblthm, tzwimqo ky ium
qvvktzipmziw nmtzd pqom qw qi vhmwmzi ik wvmxtytmo vkwiw. Iumhm wuklgo
nm qz qomblqim tzwvmxitkz wmhstxm, wk iuqi ium omvqhipmzi pqf nm qngm
ik tzykhp tiwmgy ukr ium nlwtzmww ky mqxu Xkzwlgqim tw nmtzd okzm,
tzwimqo ky omvmzotzd lvkz xqwlqg vhtsqim tzykhpqitkz kh hlpkh. Ium ymm
wfwimp wuklgo nm mzithmgf qnkgtwumo, qzo q olm mbltsqgmzi pqom tz
wqgqhf ik ium kyytxmhw ruk zkr mem kli iumth wlnwtwimzxm nf pmqzw ky
ymmw. Wlyytxtmzi vhkstwtkz wuklgo nm pqom ykh q xgmhtxqg ykhxm tz msmhf
Xkzwlgqim xkpvkwmo mzithmgf ky Qpmhtxqzw, tzwimqo ky ium tzwlyytxtmzi
vhkstwtkz zkr pqom, rutxu xkpvmgw ium mpvgkfpmzi ky dhmqi zlpnmhw ky
xtitcmzw ky ykhmtdz xklzihtmw rukwm wmhstxmw xqz nm kniqtzmo ykh gmww
pkzmf. Qi q gqhdm vqhi ky klh Xkzwlgqimw ium kyytxm blqhimhw qzo ium
xgmhtxqg ykhxm qhm tzqomblqim ik ium vmhykhpqzxm ky ium kzmhklw olitmw
tpvkwmo nf ium hmxmzi vhkstwtkzw ky klh tpptdhqitkz gqrw qw rmgg qw nf
klh tzxhmqwtzd ihqom. Tz pqzf vqhiw ky ium rkhgo ium gqxe ky wltiqngm
blqhimhw ykh klh mpnqwwtmw, gmdqitkzw, qzo Xkzwlgqimw omihqxiw yhkp ium
hmwvmxi tz rutxu klh kyytxmhw kldui ik nm umgo, qzo wmhtklwgf tpvqthw
iumth rmtdui qzo tzyglmzxm.

Wltiqngm vhkstwtkz wuklgo nm pqom ykh ium mavmzwm ky emmvtzd klh
otvgkpqitx kyytxmhw pkhm ylggf tzykhpmo ky ruqi tw nmtzd okzm yhkp oqf
ik oqf tz ium vhkdhmww ky klh otvgkpqitx qyyqthw rtiu kiumh xklzihtmw.
Ium gqxe ky wlxu tzykhpqitkz, xqlwmo nf tzwlyytxtmzi qvvhkvhtqitkzw
qsqtgqngm ykh xqngm ikggw qzo ykh xgmhtxqg qzo pmwwmzdmh wmhstxm,
yhmblmzigf vliw klh kyytxmhw qi q dhmqi otwqosqziqdm qzo omihqxiw yhkp
iumth lwmylgzmww. Ium wqgqhf gtwi wuklgo nm hmqojlwimo. Ti okmw zki zkr
xkhhmwvkzo mtiumh ik ium tpvkhiqzxm ky ium wmhstxm ik nm hmzomhmo qzo
ium omdhmmw ky qntgtif qzo mavmhtmzxm hmblthmo tz ium otyymhmzi
vkwtitkzw, kh ik ium otyymhmzxmw tz ium xkwi ky gtstzd. Tz pqzf xqwmw
ium wqgqhtmw qhm bltim tzqomblqim.