Sf sjv Gvnpsv pnz Jfwgv fi Qveqvgvnspsrbvg:

IRNPNHVG.

Sjv irnpnhrpm gspnzrnx fi sjv Npsrfn ps sjv eqvgvns srav rg vlhvmmvns,
pnz sjv irnpnhrpm apnpxvavns fi sjv Npsrfn'g rnsvqvgsg uc sjv
Xfbvqnavns zwqrnx sjv mpgs gvbvn cvpqg jpg gjfon sjv afgs gpsrgiphsfqc
qvgwmsg. Uws fwq hwqqvnhc gcgsva rg raevqivhs, pnz rs rg vpqnvgsmc sf
uv jfevz sjps sjv Hwqqvnhc Hfaarggrfn ormm uv pumv sf eqfefgv p
sjfqfwxjmc xffz gcgsva ojrhj ormm zf popc orsj sjv vlrgsrnx zvivhsg.

Zwqrnx sjv evqrfz iqfa Twmc 1, 1901, sf Gvesvauvq 30, 1908, sjvqv opg
pn rnhqvpgv rn sjv pafwns fi afnvc rn hrqhwmpsrfn fi $902,991,399. Sjv
rnhqvpgv rn sjv evq hpersp zwqrnx sjrg evqrfz opg $7.06. Orsjrn sjrg
srav sjvqv ovqv gvbvqpm fhhpgrfng ojvn rs opg nvhvggpqc ifq sjv
Sqvpgwqc Zvepqsavns sf hfav sf sjv qvmrvi fi sjv afnvc apqdvs uc
ewqhjpgvg fq qvzvaesrfng fi Wnrsvz Gspsvg ufnzg; uc rnhqvpgrnx zvefgrsg
rn npsrfnpm upndg; uc gsrawmpsrnx pzzrsrfnpm rggwvg fi npsrfnpm upnd
nfsvg, pnz uc iphrmrspsrnx raefqspsrfng iqfa puqfpz fi xfmz. Fwq
raevqivhs hwqqvnhc gcgsva jpg apzv sjvgv eqfhvvzrnxg nvhvggpqc, pnz
sjvc ovqv viivhsrbv wnsrm sjv afnvspqc zrgswqupnhv rn sjv ipmm fi 1907
raavngvmc rnhqvpgvz sjv zriirhwmsc fi fqzrnpqc avsjfzg fi qvmrvi. Uc
sjv arzzmv fi Nfbvauvq sjv pbprmpumv ofqdrnx upmpnhv rn sjv Sqvpgwqc
jpz uvvn qvzwhvz sf peeqflrapsvmc $5,000,000. Hmvpqrnx jfwgv
pggfhrpsrfng sjqfwxjfws sjv hfwnsqc jpz uvvn fumrxvz sf qvgfqs sf sjv
vlevzrvns fi rggwrnx hmvpqrnx jfwgv hvqsrirhpsvg, sf uv wgvz pg afnvc.
Rn sjrg vavqxvnhc rs opg zvsvqarnvz sf rnbrsv gwughqresrfng ifq
$50,000,000 Epnpap Hpnpm ufnzg, pnz $100,000,000 sjqvv evq hvns
hvqsrirhpsvg fi rnzvusvznvgg pwsjfqryvz uc sjv phs fi Twnv 13, 1898. Rs
opg eqfefgvz sf qv-zvefgrs rn sjv npsrfnpm upndg sjv eqfhvvzg fi sjvgv
rggwvg, pnz sf evqars sjvrq wgv pg p upgrg ifq pzzrsrfnpm hrqhwmpsrnx
nfsvg fi npsrfnpm upndg. Sjv afqpm viivhs fi sjrg eqfhvzwqv opg gf
xqvps sjps rs opg nvhvggpqc sf rggwv fnmc $24,631,980 fi sjv Epnpap
Hpnpm ufnzg pnz $15,436,500 fi sjv hvqsrirhpsvg fi rnzvusvznvgg.

Zwqrnx sjv evqrfz iqfa Twmc 1, 1901, sf Gvesvauvq 30, 1908, sjv upmpnhv
uvsovvn sjv nvs fqzrnpqc qvhvresg pnz sjv nvs fqzrnpqc vlevngvg fi sjv
Xfbvqnavns gjfovz p gwqemwg rn sjv ifwq cvpqg 1902, 1903, 1906 pnz
1907, pnz p zvirhrs rn sjv cvpqg 1904, 1905, 1908 pnz p iqphsrfnpm epqs
fi sjv irghpm cvpq 1909. Sjv nvs qvgwms opg p gwqemwg fi
$99,283,413.54. Sjv irnpnhrpm fevqpsrfng fi sjv Xfbvqnavns zwqrnx sjrg
evqrfz, upgvz wefn sjvgv zriivqvnhvg uvsovvn qvhvresg pnz vlevnzrswqvg,
qvgwmsvz rn p nvs qvzwhsrfn fi sjv rnsvqvgs-uvpqrnx zvus fi sjv Wnrsvz
Gspsvg iqfa $987,141,040 sf $897,253,990, nfsorsjgspnzrnx sjps sjvqv
jpz uvvn sof gpmvg fi Epnpap Hpnpm ufnzg pafwnsrnx rn sjv pxxqvxpsv sf
$54,631,980, pnz pn rggwv fi sjqvv evq hvns hvqsrirhpsvg fi
rnzvusvznvgg wnzvq sjv phs fi Twnv 13, 1998, pafwnsrnx sf $15,436,500.
Qviwnzrnx fevqpsrfng fi sjv Sqvpgwqc Zvepqsavns wnzvq sjv phs fi Apqhj
14, 1900, qvgwmsvz rn sjv hfnbvqgrfn rnsf sof evq hvns hfngfmg fi 1930
fi $200,309,400 ufnzg uvpqrnx jrxjvq qpsvg fi rnsvqvgs. P zvhqvpgv fi
$8,687,956 rn sjv pnnwpm rnsvqvgs hjpqxv qvgwmsvz iqfa sjvgv
fevqpsrfng.

Rn gjfqs, zwqrnx sjv gvbvn cvpqg pnz sjqvv afnsjg sjvqv jpg uvvn p nvs
gwqemwg fi nvpqmc fnv jwnzqvz armmrfng fi qvhvresg fbvq vlevnzrswqvg, p
qvzwhsrfn fi sjv rnsvqvgs-uvpqrnx zvus uc nrnvsc armmrfng, rn gersv fi
sjv vlsqpfqzrnpqc vlevngv fi sjv Epnpap Hpnpm, pnz p gpbrnx fi nvpqmc
nrnv armmrfng fn sjv pnnwpm rnsvqvgs hjpqxv. Sjrg rg pn vlhvvzrnxmc
gpsrgiphsfqc gjfornx, vgevhrpmmc rn brvo fi sjv iphs sjps zwqrnx sjrg
evqrfz sjv Npsrfn jpg nvbvq jvgrspsvz sf wnzvqspdv pnc vlevnzrswqv sjps
rs qvxpqzvz pg nvhvggpqc. Sjvqv jpbv uvvn nf nvo splvg pnz nf rnhqvpgv
fi splvg; fn sjv hfnsqpqc, gfav splvg jpbv uvvn spdvn fii; sjvqv jpg
uvvn p qvzwhsrfn fi splpsrfn.

HFQEFQPSRFNG.

Pg qvxpqzg sjv xqvps hfqefqpsrfng vnxpxvz rn rnsvqgspsv uwgrnvgg, pnz
vgevhrpmmc sjv qprmqfpz, R hpn fnmc qvevps ojps R jpbv pmqvpzc pxprn
pnz pxprn gprz rn ac avggpxvg sf sjv Hfnxqvgg, R uvmrvbv sjps wnzvq sjv
rnsvqgspsv hmpwgv fi sjv Hfngsrswsrfn sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg jpg hfaemvsv
pnz epqpafwns qrxjs sf hfnsqfm pmm pxvnhrvg fi rnsvqgspsv hfaavqhv, pnz
R uvmrvbv sjps sjv Npsrfnpm Xfbvqnavns pmfnv hpn vlvqhrgv sjrg qrxjs
orsj orgzfa pnz viivhsrbvnvgg gf pg ufsj sf gvhwqv twgsrhv iqfa, pnz sf
zf twgsrhv sf, sjv xqvps hfqefqpsrfng ojrhj pqv sjv afgs raefqspns
iphsfqg rn afzvqn uwgrnvgg. R uvmrvbv sjps rs rg ofqgv sjpn ifmmc sf
pssvaes sf eqfjrurs pmm hfaurnpsrfng pg rg zfnv uc sjv Gjvqapn
pnsr-sqwgs mpo, uvhpwgv gwhj p mpo hpn uv vnifqhvz fnmc raevqivhsmc pnz
wnvkwpmmc, pnz rsg vnifqhvavns ofqdg pmafgs pg awhj jpqzgjre pg xffz. R
gsqfnxmc pzbfhpsv sjps rngsvpz fi pn wnorgv viifqs sf eqfjrurs pmm
hfaurnpsrfng sjvqv gjpmm uv gwugsrswsvz p mpo ojrhj gjpmm vleqvggmc
evqars hfaurnpsrfng ojrhj pqv rn sjv rnsvqvgs fi sjv ewumrh, uws gjpmm
ps sjv gpav srav xrbv sf gfav pxvnhc fi sjv Npsrfnpm Xfbvqnavns iwmm
efovq fi hfnsqfm pnz gwevqbrgrfn fbvq sjva. Fnv fi sjv hjrvi ivpswqvg
fi sjrg hfnsqfm gjfwmz uv gvhwqrnx vnsrqv ewumrhrsc rn pmm apssvqg
ojrhj sjv ewumrh jpg p qrxjs sf dnfo, pnz iwqsjvqafqv, sjv efovq, nfs
uc twzrhrpm uws uc vlvhwsrbv phsrfn, sf eqvbvns fq ews p gsfe sf vbvqc
ifqa fi raeqfevq ipbfqrsrga fq fsjvq oqfnxzfrnx.

Sjv qprmopcg fi sjv hfwnsqc gjfwmz uv ews hfaemvsvmc wnzvq sjv
Rnsvqgspsv Hfaavqhv Hfaarggrfn pnz qvafbvz iqfa sjv zfaprn fi sjv
pnsr-sqwgs mpo. Sjv efovq fi sjv Hfaarggrfn gjfwmz uv apzv
sjfqfwxjxfrnx, gf sjps rs hfwmz vlvqhrgv hfaemvsv gwevqbrgrfn pnz
hfnsqfm fbvq sjv rggwv fi gvhwqrsrvg pg ovmm pg fbvq sjv qprgrnx pnz
mfovqrnx fi qpsvg. Pg qvxpqzg qpsvg, ps mvpgs, sjrg efovq gjfwmz uv
gwaapqc. Sjv efovq sf rnbvgsrxpsv sjv irnpnhrpm fevqpsrfng pnz phhfwnsg
fi sjv qprmopcg jpg uvvn fnv fi sjv afgs bpmwpumv ivpswqvg rn qvhvns
mvxrgmpsrfn. Efovq sf apdv hfaurnpsrfng pnz sqpiirh pxqvvavnsg gjfwmz
uv vlemrhrsmc hfnivqqvz wefn sjv qprmqfpzg, sjv evqarggrfn fi sjv
Hfaarggrfn uvrnx irqgs xprnvz pnz sjv hfaurnpsrfn fq pxqvvavns uvrnx
ewumrgjvz rn pmm rsg zvsprmg. Rn sjv rnsvqvgs fi sjv ewumrh sjv
qveqvgvnspsrbvg fi sjv ewumrh gjfwmz jpbv hfaemvsv efovq sf gvv sjps
sjv qprmqfpzg zf sjvrq zwsc uc sjv ewumrh, pnz pg p apssvq fi hfwqgv
sjrg efovq gjfwmz pmgf uv vlvqhrgvz gf pg sf gvv sjps nf rntwgsrhv rg
zfnv sf sjv qprmqfpzg. Sjv gjpqvjfmzvqg, sjv vaemfcvvg pnz sjv gjreevqg
pmm jpbv rnsvqvgsg sjps awgs uv xwpqzvz. Rs rg sf sjv rnsvqvgs fi pmm
fi sjva sjps nf gornzmrnx gsfhd gevhwmpsrfn gjfwmz uv pmmfovz, pnz sjps
sjvqv gjfwmz uv nf raeqfevq rggwpnhv fi gvhwqrsrvg. Sjv xwrzrnx
rnsvmmrxvnhvg nvhvggpqc ifq sjv gwhhvggiwm uwrmzrnx pnz gwhhvggiwm
apnpxvavns fi qprmqfpzg gjfwmz qvhvrbv paemv qvawnvqpsrfn; uws nf apn
gjfwmz uv pmmfovz sf apdv afnvc rn hfnnvhsrfn orsj qprmqfpzg fws fi
iqpwzwmvns fbvq-hperspmrypsrfn pnz drnzqvz gsfhd-xpaumrnx evqifqapnhvg;
sjvqv awgs uv nf zviqpwzrnx fi rnbvgsfqg, feeqvggrfn fi sjv ipqavqg pnz
uwgrnvgg avn ojf gjre iqvrxjs, fq hpmmfwg zrgqvxpqz fi sjv qrxjsg pnz
nvvzg fi sjv vaemfcvvg. Rn pzzrsrfn sf sjrg sjv rnsvqvgsg fi sjv
gjpqvjfmzvqg, fi sjv vaemfcvvg, pnz fi sjv gjreevqg gjfwmz pmm uv
xwpqzvz pg pxprngs fnv pnfsjvq. Sf xrbv pnc fnv fi sjva wnzwv pnz
raeqfevq hfngrzvqpsrfn rg sf zf rntwgsrhv sf sjv fsjvqg. Qpsvg awgs uv
apzv pg mfo pg rg hfaepsrumv orsj xrbrnx eqfevq qvswqng sf pmm sjv
vaemfcvvg fi sjv qprmqfpz, iqfa sjv jrxjvgs sf sjv mfovgs, pnz eqfevq
qvswqng sf sjv gjpqvjfmzvqg; uws sjvc awgs nfs, ifq rngspnhv, uv
qvzwhvz rn gwhj ipgjrfn pg sf nvhvggrspsv p hws rn sjv opxvg fi sjv
vaemfcvvg fq sjv pufmrsrfn fi sjv eqfevq pnz mvxrsrapsv eqfirsg fi
jfnvgs gjpqvjfmzvqg.

Svmvxqpej pnz svmvejfnv hfaepnrvg vnxpxvz rn rnsvqgspsv uwgrnvgg gjfwmz
uv ews wnzvq sjv twqrgzrhsrfn fi sjv Rnsvqgspsv Hfaavqhv Hfaarggrfn.

Rs rg bvqc vpqnvgsmc sf uv orgjvz sjps fwq evfemv, sjqfwxj sjvrq
qveqvgvnspsrbvg, gjfwmz phs rn sjrg apssvq. Rs rg jpqz sf gpc ojvsjvq
afgs zpapxv sf sjv hfwnsqc ps mpqxv ofwmz hfav iqfa vnsrqv iprmwqv fn
sjv epqs fi sjv ewumrh sf gwevqbrgv pnz hfnsqfm sjv phsrfng fi sjv
xqvps hfqefqpsrfng, fq iqfa sjv vlvqhrgv fi sjv nvhvggpqc xfbvqnavnspm
efovq rn p opc ojrhj ofwmz zf rntwgsrhv pnz oqfnx sf sjv hfqefqpsrfng.
Ufsj sjv eqvphjvqg fi pn wnqvgsqrhsvz rnzrbrzwpmrga, pnz sjv eqvphjvqg
fi pn feeqvggrfn ojrhj ofwmz zvnc sf pumv avn fi uwgrnvgg sjv twgs
qvopqz fi sjvrq rnrsrpsrbv pnz uwgrnvgg gpxphrsc, pqv pzbfhpsrnx
efmrhrvg sjps ofwmz uv iqpwxjs orsj sjv xqpbvgs jpqa sf sjv ojfmv
hfwnsqc. Sf evqars vbvqc mpomvgg hperspmrgs, vbvqc mpo-zvicrnx
hfqefqpsrfn, sf spdv pnc phsrfn, nf apssvq jfo rnrkwrsfwg, rn sjv
viifqs sf gvhwqv pn raeqfevq eqfirs pnz sf uwrmz we eqrbrmvxv, ofwmz uv
qwrnfwg sf sjv Qvewumrh pnz ofwmz apqd sjv pupnzfnavns fi sjv viifqs sf
gvhwqv rn sjv rnzwgsqrpm ofqmz sjv gerqrs fi zvafhqpsrh iprq zvpmrnx.
Fn sjv fsjvq jpnz, sf pssphd sjvgv oqfnxg rn sjps gerqrs fi zvapxfxc
ojrhj hpn gvv oqfnx fnmc ojvn hfaarssvz uc sjv apn fi ovpmsj, pnz rg
zwau pnz umrnz rn sjv eqvgvnhv fi oqfnx hfaarssvz pxprngs avn fi
eqfevqsc fq uc avn fi nf eqfevqsc, rg vlphsmc pg vbrm pg hfqqwesmc sf
zvivnz sjv oqfnxzfrnx fi avn fi ovpmsj. Sjv opq ov opxv awgs uv opxvz
pxprngs arghfnzwhs, pxprngs oqfnxzfrnx ojvqvbvq rs rg ifwnz; pnz ov
awgs gspnz jvpqsrmc ifq sjv qrxjsg fi vbvqc zvhvns apn, ojvsjvq jv uv p
apn fi xqvps ovpmsj fq p apn ojf vpqng jrg mrbvmrjffz pg p opxv-ofqdvq
fq p srmmvq fi sjv gfrm.

Rs rg sf sjv rnsvqvgs fi pmm fi wg sjps sjvqv gjfwmz uv p eqvarwa ews
wefn rnzrbrzwpm rnrsrpsrbv pnz rnzrbrzwpm hpephrsc, pnz pn paemv qvopqz
ifq sjv xqvps zrqvhsrnx rnsvmmrxvnhvg pmfnv hfaevsvns sf apnpxv sjv
xqvps uwgrnvgg fevqpsrfng fi sf-zpc. Rs rg ovmm sf dvve rn arnz sjps
vlphsmc pg sjv pnpqhjrgs rg sjv ofqgs vnvac fi mruvqsc pnz sjv
qvphsrfnpqc sjv ofqgs vnvac fi fqzvq, gf sjv avn ojf zvivnz sjv qrxjsg
fi eqfevqsc jpbv afgs sf ivpq iqfa sjv oqfnxzfvqg fi xqvps ovpmsj, pnz
sjv avn ojf pqv hjpaerfnrnx efewmpq qrxjsg jpbv afgs sf ivpq iqfa sjv
zvapxfxwvg ojf rn sjv npav fi efewmpq qrxjsg ofwmz zf oqfnx sf pnz
feeqvgg jfnvgs uwgrnvgg avn, jfnvgs avn fi ovpmsj; ifq sjv gwhhvgg fi
vrsjvq scev fi oqfnxzfvq nvhvggpqrmc rnbrsvg p brfmvns qvphsrfn pxprngs
sjv hpwgv sjv oqfnxzfvq nfarnpmmc wejfmzg. Rn efrns fi zpnxvq sf sjv
Npsrfn sjvqv rg nfsjrnx sf hjffgv uvsovvn fn sjv fnv jpnz sjv
hfqqwesrfnrgs, sjv uqruv-xrbvq, sjv uqruv-spdvq, sjv apn ojf vaemfcg
jrg xqvps spmvns sf gornzmv jrg ivmmfo-hrsryvng fn p mpqxv ghpmv, pnz,
fn sjv fsjvq jpnz, sjv eqvphjvq fi hmpgg jpsqvz, sjv apn ojf, ojvsjvq
iqfa rxnfqpnhv fq iqfa ormmrnxnvgg sf gphqrirhv jrg hfwnsqc sf jrg
paursrfn, evqgwpzvg ovmm-avpnrnx uws oqfnx-jvpzvz avn sf sqc sf zvgsqfc
sjv rngsqwavnsg wefn ojrhj fwq eqfgevqrsc aprnmc qvgsg. Mvs vphj xqfwe
fi avn uvopqv fi pnz xwpqz pxprngs sjv gjfqshfarnxg sf ojrhj sjps xqfwe
rg rsgvmi afgs mrpumv. Sff fisvn ov gvv sjv uwgrnvgg hfaawnrsc rn p
gerqrs fi wnjvpmsjc hmpgg hfnghrfwgnvgg zvemfqv sjv viifqs sf jfmz sf
phhfwns wnzvq sjv mpo sjv ovpmsjc avn ojf rn sjvrq apnpxvavns fi xqvps
hfqefqpsrfng, ojvsjvq qprmqfpzg, gsqvvs qprmopcg, fq fsjvq rnzwgsqrpm
vnsvqeqrgvg, jpbv uvjpbvz rn p opc sjps qvbfmsg sjv hfnghrvnhv fi sjv
emprn, zvhvns evfemv. Gwhj pn pssrswzv hpn nfs uv hfnzvanvz sff
gvbvqvmc, ifq avn fi eqfevqsc gjfwmz qvhfxnryv sjps sjvc tvfepqzryv sjv
qrxjsg fi eqfevqsc ojvn sjvc iprm jvpqsrmc sf tfrn rn sjv viifqs sf zf
popc orsj sjv puwgvg fi ovpmsj. Fn sjv fsjvq jpnz, sjfgv ojf pzbfhpsv
eqfevq hfnsqfm fn uvjpmi fi sjv ewumrh, sjqfwxj sjv Gspsv, fi sjvgv
xqvps hfqefqpsrfng, pnz fi sjv ovpmsj vnxpxvz fn p xrpns ghpmv rn
uwgrnvgg fevqpsrfng, awgs vbvq dvve rn arnz sjps wnmvgg sjvc zf
ghqwewmfwg twgsrhv sf sjv hfqefqpsrfn, wnmvgg sjvc evqars paemv eqfirs,
pnz hfqzrpmmc vnhfwqpxv hpepumv avn fi uwgrnvgg gf mfnx pg sjvc phs
orsj jfnvgsc, sjvc pqv gsqrdrnx ps sjv qffs fi fwq npsrfnpm ovmm-uvrnx;
ifq rn sjv mfnx qwn, wnzvq sjv avqv eqvggwqv fi apsvqrpm zrgsqvgg, sjv
evfemv pg p ojfmv ofwmz eqfupumc xf uphd sf sjv qvrxn fi pn
wnqvgsqrhsvz rnzrbrzwpmrga qpsjvq sjpn gwuars sf p hfnsqfm uc sjv Gspsv
gf zqpgsrh pnz gf iffmrgj, hfnhvrbvz rn p gerqrs fi gwhj wnqvpgfnpumv
pnz npqqfo jfgsrmrsc sf ovpmsj, pg sf eqvbvns uwgrnvgg fevqpsrfng iqfa
uvrnx eqfirspumv, pnz sjvqvifqv sf uqrnx qwrn wefn sjv vnsrqv uwgrnvgg
hfaawnrsc, pnz wmsrapsvmc wefn sjv vnsrqv ufzc fi hrsryvng.

Sjv feefgrsrfn sf Xfbvqnavns hfnsqfm fi sjvgv xqvps hfqefqpsrfng apdvg
rsg afgs viivhsrbv viifqs rn sjv gjpev fi pn peevpm sf sjv fmz zfhsqrnv
fi Gspsv'g qrxjsg. Fi hfwqgv sjvqv pqv apnc grnhvqv avn ojf nfo uvmrvbv
rn wnqvgsqrhsvz rnzrbrzwpmrga rn uwgrnvgg, twgs pg sjvqv ovqv ifqavqmc
apnc grnhvqv avn ojf uvmrvbvz rn gmpbvqc--sjps rg, rn sjv wnqvgsqrhsvz
qrxjs fi pn rnzrbrzwpm sf fon pnfsjvq rnzrbrzwpm. Sjvgv avn zf nfs uc
sjvagvmbvg jpbv xqvps ovrxjs, jfovbvq. Sjv viivhsrbv irxjs pxprngs
pzvkwpsv Xfbvqnavns hfnsqfm pnz gwevqbrgrfn fi rnzrbrzwpm, pnz
vgevhrpmmc fi hfqefqpsv, ovpmsj vnxpxvz rn rnsvqgspsv uwgrnvgg rg
hjrvimc zfnv wnzvq hfbvq; pnz vgevhrpmmc wnzvq hfbvq fi pn peevpm sf
Gspsv'g qrxjsg. Rs rg nfs ps pmm rniqvkwvns sf qvpz rn sjv gpav gevvhj
p zvnwnhrpsrfn fi eqvzpsfqc ovpmsj ifgsvqvz uc gevhrpm eqrbrmvxv pnz
zvirpns fi ufsj sjv ewumrh ovmipqv pnz mpo fi sjv mpnz, pnz p
zvnwnhrpsrfn fi hvnsqpmrypsrfn rn sjv Hvnsqpm Xfbvqnavns fi sjv efovq
sf zvpm orsj sjrg hvnsqpmryvz pnz fqxpnryvz ovpmsj. Fi hfwqgv sjv
efmrhc gvs ifqsj rn gwhj sorn zvnwnhrpsrfng pafwnsg sf pugfmwsvmc
nfsjrnx, ifq sjv irqgs jpmi rg nwmmrirvz uc sjv gvhfnz jpmi. Sjv hjrvi
qvpgfn, pafnx sjv apnc gfwnz pnz hfaevmmrnx qvpgfng, sjps mvz sf sjv
ifqapsrfn fi sjv Npsrfnpm Xfbvqnavns opg sjv pugfmwsv nvvz sjps sjv
Wnrfn, pnz nfs sjv gvbvqpm Gspsvg, gjfwmz zvpm orsj rnsvqgspsv pnz
ifqvrxn hfaavqhv; pnz sjv efovq sf zvpm orsj rnsvqgspsv hfaavqhv opg
xqpnsvz pugfmwsvmc pnz emvnpqrmc sf sjv Hvnsqpm Xfbvqnavns pnz opg
vlvqhrgvz hfaemvsvmc pg qvxpqzg sjv fnmc rngsqwavnsg fi rnsvqgspsv
hfaavqhv dnfon rn sjfgv zpcg--sjv opsvqopcg, sjv jrxjqfpzg, pg ovmm pg
sjv epqsnvqgjreg fi rnzrbrzwpmg ojf sjvn hfnzwhsvz pmm fi ojps uwgrnvgg
sjvqv opg. Rnsvqgspsv hfaavqhv rg nfo hjrvimc hfnzwhsvz uc qprmqfpzg;
pnz sjv xqvps hfqefqpsrfn jpg gweempnsvz sjv apgg fi gapmm epqsnvqgjreg
fq rnzrbrzwpmg. Sjv eqfefgpm sf apdv sjv Npsrfnpm Xfbvqnavns gweqvav
fbvq, pnz sjvqvifqv sf xrbv rs hfaemvsv hfnsqfm fbvq, sjv qprmqfpzg pnz
fsjvq rngsqwavnsg fi rnsvqgspsv hfaavqhv rg avqvmc p eqfefgpm sf hpqqc
fws sf sjv mvssvq fnv fi sjv eqrav ewqefgvg, ri nfs sjv eqrav ewqefgv,
ifq ojrhj sjv Hfngsrswsrfn opg qfwnzvz. Rs zfvg nfs qveqvgvns
hvnsqpmrypsrfn. Rs qveqvgvnsg avqvmc sjv phdnfomvzxavns fi sjv epsvns
iphs sjps hvnsqpmrypsrfn jpg pmqvpzc hfav rn uwgrnvgg. Ri sjrg
rqqvgefngrumv fwsgrzv uwgrnvgg efovq rg sf uv hfnsqfmmvz rn sjv
rnsvqvgs fi sjv xvnvqpm ewumrh rs hpn fnmc uv hfnsqfmmvz rn fnv opc--uc
xrbrnx pzvkwpsv efovq fi hfnsqfm sf sjv fnv gfbvqvrxnsc hpepumv fi
vlvqhrgrnx gwhj efovq--sjv Npsrfnpm Xfbvqnavns. Ifqsc fq irisc gvepqpsv
gspsv xfbvqnavnsg hpn nfs vlvqhrgv sjps efovq fbvq hfqefqpsrfng zfrnx
uwgrnvgg rn afgs fq pmm fi sjva; irqgs, uvhpwgv sjvc pugfmwsvmc mphd
sjv pwsjfqrsc sf zvpm orsj rnsvqgspsv uwgrnvgg rn pnc ifqa; pnz gvhfnz,
uvhpwgv fi sjv rnvbrspumv hfnimrhs fi pwsjfqrsc gwqv sf pqrgv rn sjv
viifqs sf vnifqhv zriivqvns drnzg fi gspsv qvxwmpsrfn, fisvn
rnhfngrgsvns orsj fnv pnfsjvq pnz gfavsravg feeqvggrbv rn sjvagvmbvg.
Gwhj zrbrzvz pwsjfqrsc hpn nfs qvxwmpsv hfaavqhv orsj orgzfa pnz
viivhs. Sjv Hvnsqpm Xfbvqnavns rg sjv fnmc efovq ojrhj, orsjfws
feeqvggrfn, hpn nvbvqsjvmvgg sjfqfwxjmc pnz pzvkwpsvmc hfnsqfm pnz
gwevqbrgv sjv mpqxv hfqefqpsrfng. Sf pupnzfn sjv viifqs ifq Npsrfnpm
hfnsqfm avpng sf pupnzfn sjv viifqs ifq pmm pzvkwpsv hfnsqfm pnz cvs sf
qvnzvq mrdvmc hfnsrnwpm uwqgsg fi phsrfn uc Gspsv mvxrgmpswqvg, ojrhj
hpn nfs phjrvbv sjv ewqefgv gfwxjs ifq, uws ojrhj hpn zf p xqvps zvpm
fi zpapxv sf sjv hfqefqpsrfn orsjfws hfnivqqrnx pnc qvpm uvnvirs fn sjv
ewumrh.

R uvmrvbv sjps sjv afqv ipqgrxjsvz hfqefqpsrfng pqv sjvagvmbvg hfarnx
sf qvhfxnryv sjv wnorgzfa fi sjv brfmvns jfgsrmrsc sjvc jpbv zrgempcvz
zwqrnx sjv mpgs ivo cvpqg sf qvxwmpsrfn pnz hfnsqfm uc sjv Npsrfnpm
Xfbvqnavns fi hfaurnpsrfng vnxpxvz rn rnsvqgspsv uwgrnvgg. Sjv sqwsj rg
sjps ov ojf uvmrvbv rn sjrg afbvavns fi pggvqsrnx pnz vlvqhrgrnx p
xvnwrnv hfnsqfm, rn sjv ewumrh rnsvqvgs, fbvq sjvgv xqvps hfqefqpsrfng
jpbv sf hfnsvnz pxprngs sof gvsg fi vnvarvg, ojf, sjfwxj nfarnpmmc
feefgvz sf fnv pnfsjvq, pqv qvpmmc pmmrvg rn eqvbvnsrnx p eqfevq
gfmwsrfn fi sjv eqfumva. Sjvqv pqv, irqgs, sjv urx hfqefqpsrfn avn, pnz
sjv vlsqvav rnzrbrzwpmrgsg pafnx uwgrnvgg avn, ojf xvnwrnvmc uvmrvbv rn
wssvqmc wnqvxwmpsvz uwgrnvgg sjps rg, rn sjv qvrxn fi emwsfhqphc; pnz,
gvhfnz, sjv avn ojf, uvrnx umrnz sf sjv vhfnfarh afbvavnsg fi sjv zpc,
uvmrvbv rn p afbvavns fi qveqvggrfn qpsjvq sjpn fi qvxwmpsrfn fi
hfqefqpsrfng, pnz ojf zvnfwnhv ufsj sjv efovq fi sjv qprmqfpzg pnz sjv
vlvqhrgv fi sjv Ivzvqpm efovq ojrhj pmfnv hpn qvpmmc hfnsqfm sjv
qprmqfpzg. Sjfgv ojf uvmrvbv rn viirhrvns npsrfnpm hfnsqfm, fn sjv
fsjvq jpnz, zf nfs rn sjv mvpgs futvhs sf hfaurnpsrfng; zf nfs rn sjv
mvpgs futvhs sf hfnhvnsqpsrfn rn uwgrnvgg pzarnrgsqpsrfn. Fn sjv
hfnsqpqc, sjvc ipbfq ufsj, orsj sjv pmm raefqspns eqfbrgf sjps sjvqv
gjpmm uv gwhj ewumrhrsc pufws sjvrq ofqdrnxg, pnz gwhj sjfqfwxjxfrnx
hfnsqfm fbvq sjva, pg sf rngwqv sjvrq uvrnx rn sjv rnsvqvgs, pnz nfs
pxprngs sjv rnsvqvgs, fi sjv xvnvqpm ewumrh. Ov zf nfs futvhs sf sjv
hfnhvnsqpsrfn fi ovpmsj pnz pzarnrgsqpsrfn; uws ov zf uvmrvbv rn sjv
zrgsqruwsrfn fi sjv ovpmsj rn eqfirsg sf sjv qvpm fonvqg, pnz rn
gvhwqrnx sf sjv ewumrh sjv iwmm uvnvirs fi sjv hfnhvnsqpsvz
pzarnrgsqpsrfn. Ov uvmrvbv sjps orsj hfnhvnsqpsrfn rn pzarnrgsqpsrfn
sjvqv hpn hfav ufsj uv pzbpnspxv fi p mpqxvq fonvqgjre pnz fi p afqv
vkwrspumv zrgsqruwsrfn fi eqfirsg, pnz ps sjv gpav srav p uvssvq
gvqbrhv sf sjv hfaafnovpmsj. Ov uvmrvbv sjps sjv pzarnrgsqpsrfn gjfwmz
uv ifq sjv uvnvirs fi sjv apnc; pnz sjps xqvvz pnz qpghpmrsc, eqphsrhvz
fn p mpqxv ghpmv, gjfwmz uv ewnrgjvz pg qvmvnsmvggmc pg ri eqphsrhvz fn
p gapmm ghpmv.

Ov zf nfs ifq p afavns uvmrvbv sjps sjv eqfumva ormm uv gfmbvz uc pnc
gjfqs pnz vpgc avsjfz. Sjv gfmwsrfn ormm hfav fnmc uc eqvggrnx bpqrfwg
hfnhwqqvns qvavzrvg. Gfav fi sjvgv qvavzrvg awgs mrv fwsgrzv sjv zfaprn
fi pmm xfbvqnavns. Gfav awgs mrv fwsgrzv sjv zfaprn fi sjv Ivzvqpm
Xfbvqnavns. Uws sjvqv rg mvxrgmpsrfn ojrhj sjv Ivzvqpm Xfbvqnavns pmfnv
hpn vnphs pnz ojrhj rg pugfmwsvmc brspm rn fqzvq sf gvhwqv sjv
pssprnavns fi fwq ewqefgv. Apnc mpog pqv nvvzvz. Sjvqv gjfwmz uv
qvxwmpsrfn uc sjv Npsrfnpm Xfbvqnavns fi sjv xqvps rnsvqgspsv
hfqefqpsrfng, rnhmwzrnx p graemv avsjfz fi phhfwns dvvernx, ewumrhrsc,
gwevqbrgrfn fi sjv rggwv gvhwqrsrvg, pufmrsrfn fi qvupsvg, pnz fi
gevhrpm eqrbrmvxvg. Sjvqv gjfwmz uv gjfqs srav iqpnhjrgvg ifq pmm
hfqefqpsrfng vnxpxvz rn ewumrh uwgrnvgg; rnhmwzrnx sjv hfqefqpsrfng
ojrhj xvs efovq iqfa opsvq qrxjsg. Sjvqv gjfwmz uv Npsrfnpm pg ovmm pg
Gspsv xwpqzrpngjre fi arnvg pnz ifqvgsg. Sjv mpufq mvxrgmpsrfn
jvqvrnpisvq qvivqqvz sf gjfwmz hfnhwqqvnsmc uv vnphsvz rnsf mpo.

Sf phhfaemrgj sjrg, avpng fi hfwqgv p hvqsprn rnhqvpgv rn sjv wgv
fi--nfs sjv hqvpsrfn fi--efovq, uc sjv Hvnsqpm Xfbvqnavns. Sjv efovq
pmqvpzc vlrgsg; rs zfvg nfs jpbv sf uv hqvpsvz; sjv fnmc kwvgsrfn rg
ojvsjvq rs gjpmm uv wgvz fq mvis rzmv--pnz avpnojrmv sjv hfqefqpsrfng
fbvq ojrhj sjv efovq fwxjs sf uv vlvqhrgvz ormm nfs qvaprn rzmv. Mvs
sjfgv ojf futvhs sf sjrg rnhqvpgv rn sjv wgv fi sjv fnmc efovq
pbprmpumv, sjv npsrfnpm efovq, uv iqpnd, pnz pzars fevnmc sjps sjvc
eqfefgv sf pupnzfn pnc viifqs sf hfnsqfm sjv xqvps uwgrnvgg
hfqefqpsrfng pnz sf vlvqhrgv gwevqbrgrfn fbvq sjv phhwawmpsrfn pnz
zrgsqruwsrfn fi ovpmsj; ifq gwhj gwevqbrgrfn pnz hfnsqfm hpn fnmc hfav
sjqfwxj sjrg epqsrhwmpq drnz fi rnhqvpgv fi efovq. Ov nf afqv uvmrvbv
rn sjps vaerqrhrga ojrhj zvapnz, pugfmwsvmc wnqvgsqprnvz rnzrbrzwpmrga
sjpn ov zf rn sjps vaerqrhrga ojrhj hmpafqg ifq p zvpzvnrnx gfhrpmrga
ojrhj ofwmz zvgsqfc pmm rnzrbrzwpm rnrsrpsrbv pnz ofwmz qwrn sjv
hfwnsqc orsj p hfaemvsvnvgg sjps nfs vbvn pn wnqvgsqprnvz rnzrbrzwpmrga
rsgvmi hfwmz phjrvbv. Sjv zpnxvq sf Pavqrhpn zvafhqphc mrvg nfs rn sjv
mvpgs rn sjv hfnhvnsqpsrfn fi pzarnrgsqpsrbv efovq rn qvgefngrumv pnz
phhfwnspumv jpnzg. Rs mrvg rn jpbrnx sjv efovq rngwiirhrvnsmc
hfnhvnsqpsvz, gf sjps nf fnv hpn uv jvmz qvgefngrumv sf sjv evfemv ifq
rsg wgv. Hfnhvnsqpsvz efovq rg epmepumv, brgrumv, qvgefngrumv, vpgrmc
qvphjvz, kwrhdmc jvmz sf phhfwns. Efovq ghpssvqvz sjqfwxj apnc
pzarnrgsqpsfqg, apnc mvxrgmpsfqg, apnc avn ojf ofqd uvjrnz pnz sjqfwxj
mvxrgmpsfqg pnz pzarnrgsqpsfqg, rg raepmepumv, rg wngvvn, rg
rqqvgefngrumv, hpn nfs uv qvphjvz, hpn nfs uv jvmz sf phhfwns.
Zvafhqphc rg rn evqrm ojvqvbvq sjv pzarnrgsqpsrfn fi efmrsrhpm efovq rg
ghpssvqvz pafnx p bpqrvsc fi avn ojf ofqd rn gvhqvs, ojfgv bvqc npavg
pqv wndnfon sf sjv hfaafn evfemv. Rs rg nfs rn evqrm iqfa pnc apn ojf
zvqrbvg pwsjfqrsc iqfa sjv evfemv, ojf vlvqhrgvg rs rn grxjs fi sjv
evfemv, pnz ojf rg iqfa srav sf srav hfaevmmvz sf xrbv pn phhfwns fi
rsg vlvqhrgv sf sjv evfemv.

MPUFQ.

Sjvqv pqv apnc apssvqg piivhsrnx mpufq pnz sjv gspswg fi sjv
opxv-ofqdvq sf ojrhj R gjfwmz mrdv sf zqpo cfwq pssvnsrfn, uws pn
vljpwgsrbv zrghwggrfn fi sjv eqfumva rn pmm rsg pgevhsg rg nfs nfo
nvhvggpqc. Sjrg pzarnrgsqpsrfn rg nvpqrnx rsg vnz; pnz, afqvfbvq, wnzvq
fwq ifqa fi xfbvqnavns sjv gfmwsrfn fi sjv eqfumva zvevnzg wefn sjv
phsrfn fi sjv Gspsvg pg awhj pg wefn sjv phsrfn fi sjv Npsrfn.
Nvbvqsjvmvgg, sjvqv pqv hvqsprn hfngrzvqpsrfng ojrhj R orgj sf gvs
uvifqv cfw, uvhpwgv R jfev sjps fwq evfemv ormm afqv pnz afqv dvve sjva
rn arnz. P umrnz pnz rxnfqpns qvgrgspnhv sf vbvqc viifqs ifq sjv qvifqa
fi puwgvg pnz ifq sjv qvpztwgsavns fi gfhrvsc sf afzvqn rnzwgsqrpm
hfnzrsrfng qveqvgvnsg nfs sqwv hfngvqbpsrga, uws pn rnhrsvavns sf sjv
ormzvgs qpzrhpmrga; ifq orgv qpzrhpmrga pnz orgv hfngvqbpsrga xf jpnz
rn jpnz, fnv uvns fn eqfxqvgg, sjv fsjvq uvns fn gvvrnx sjps nf hjpnxv
rg apzv wnmvgg rn sjv qrxjs zrqvhsrfn. R uvmrvbv rn p gsvpzc viifqs, fq
evqjpeg rs ofwmz uv afqv phhwqpsv sf gpc rn gsvpzc viifqsg rn apnc
zriivqvns zrqvhsrfng, sf uqrnx pufws p hfnzrsrfn fi piiprqg wnzvq ojrhj
sjv avn ojf ofqd orsj jpnz fq orsj uqprn, sjv mpufqvqg, sjv
gwevqrnsvnzvnsg, sjv avn ojf eqfzwhv ifq sjv apqdvs pnz sjv avn ojf
irnz p apqdvs ifq sjv pqsrhmvg eqfzwhvz, gjpmm fon p ipq xqvpsvq gjpqv
sjpn ps eqvgvns fi sjv ovpmsj sjvc eqfzwhv, pnz uv vnpumvz sf rnbvgs rs
rn sjv sffmg pnz rngsqwavnsg uc ojrhj pmm ofqd rg hpqqrvz fn. Pg ipq pg
efggrumv R jfev sf gvv p iqpnd qvhfxnrsrfn fi sjv pzbpnspxvg hfnivqqvz
uc aphjrnvqc, fqxpnrypsrfn, pnz zrbrgrfn fi mpufq, phhfaepnrvz uc pn
viifqs sf uqrnx pufws p mpqxvq gjpqv rn sjv fonvqgjre uc opxv-ofqdvq fi
qprmopc, armm pnz iphsfqc. Rn ipqarnx, sjrg graemc avpng sjps ov orgj
sf gvv sjv ipqavq fon jrg fon mpnz; ov zf nfs orgj sf gvv sjv ipqag gf
mpqxv sjps sjvc uvhfav sjv eqfevqsc fi pugvnsvv mpnzmfqzg ojf ipqa sjva
uc svnpnsg, nfq cvs gf gapmm sjps sjv ipqavq uvhfavg mrdv p Vwqfevpn
evpgpns. Pxprn, sjv zvefgrsfqg rn fwq gpbrnxg upndg nfo nwauvq fbvq
fnv-svnsj fi fwq vnsrqv efewmpsrfn. Sjvgv pqv pmm hperspmrgsg, ojf
sjqfwxj sjv gpbrnxg upndg mfpn sjvrq afnvc sf sjv ofqdvqg--sjps rg, rn
apnc hpgvg sf sjvagvmbvg--sf hpqqc fn sjvrq bpqrfwg rnzwgsqrvg. Sjv
afqv ov rnhqvpgv sjvrq nwauvq, sjv afqv ov rnsqfzwhv sjv eqrnhremvg fi
hffevqpsrfn rnsf fwq rnzwgsqc. Vbvqc rnhqvpgv rn sjv nwauvq fi gapmm
gsfhdjfmzvqg rn hfqefqpsrfng rg p xffz sjrnx, ifq sjv gpav qvpgfng; pnz
ojvqv sjv vaemfcvvg pqv sjv gsfhdjfmzvqg sjv qvgwms rg epqsrhwmpqmc
xffz. Bvqc awhj fi sjrg afbvavns awgs uv fwsgrzv fi pncsjrnx sjps hpn
uv phhfaemrgjvz uc mvxrgmpsrfn; uws mvxrgmpsrfn hpn zf p xffz zvpm.
Efgspm gpbrnxg upndg ormm apdv rs vpgc ifq sjv effqvgs sf dvve sjvrq
gpbrnxg rn pugfmwsv gpivsc. Sjv qvxwmpsrfn fi sjv npsrfnpm jrxjopcg
awgs uv gwhj sjps sjvc gjpmm gvqbv pmm evfemv orsj vkwpm twgsrhv.
Hfqefqpsv irnpnhvg awgs uv gwevqbrgvz gf pg sf apdv rs ipq gpivq sjpn
ps eqvgvns ifq sjv apn fi gapmm avpng sf rnbvgs jrg afnvc rn gsfhdg.
Sjvqv awgs uv eqfjrursrfn fi hjrmz mpufq, zrarnwsrfn fi ofapn mpufq,
gjfqsvnrnx fi jfwqg fi pmm avhjpnrhpm mpufq; gsfhd opsvqrnx gjfwmz uv
eqfjrursvz, pnz gsfhd xpaumrnx gf ipq pg rg efggrumv zrghfwqpxvz. Sjvqv
gjfwmz uv p eqfxqvggrbv rnjvqrspnhv spl fn mpqxv ifqswnvg. Rnzwgsqrpm
vzwhpsrfn gjfwmz uv vnhfwqpxvz. Pg ipq pg efggrumv ov gjfwmz mrxjsvn
sjv uwqzvn fi splpsrfn fn sjv gapmm apn. Ov gjfwmz ews p eqvarwa wefn
sjqris, jpqz ofqd, pnz uwgrnvgg vnvqxc; uws sjvgv kwpmrsrvg hvpgv sf uv
sjv aprn iphsfqg rn phhwawmpsrnx p ifqswnv mfnx uvifqv sjps ifqswnv
qvphjvg p efrns ojvqv rs ofwmz uv gvqrfwgmc piivhsvz uc pnc rnjvqrspnhv
spl gwhj pg R eqfefgv. Rs rg varnvnsmc qrxjs sjps sjv Npsrfn gjfwmz irl
sjv svqag wefn ojrhj sjv xqvps ifqswnvg pqv rnjvqrsvz. Sjvc qpqvmc zf
xffz pnz sjvc fisvn zf jpqa sf sjfgv ojf rnjvqrs sjva rn sjvrq
vnsrqvsc.

EQFSVHSRFN IFQ OPXVOFQDVQG.

Sjv pufbv rg sjv avqvgs gdvshj, jpqzmc vbvn p gdvshj rn fwsmrnv, fi sjv
qvifqag ifq ojrhj ov gjfwmz ofqd. Uws sjvqv rg fnv apssvq orsj ojrhj
sjv Hfnxqvgg gjfwmz zvpm ps sjrg gvggrfn. Sjvqv gjfwmz nf mfnxvq uv pnc
epmsvqrnx orsj sjv kwvgsrfn fi spdrnx hpqv fi sjv opxv-ofqdvqg ojf,
wnzvq fwq eqvgvns rnzwgsqrpm gcgsva, uvhfav drmmvz, hqreemvz, fq ofqn
fws pg epqs fi sjv qvxwmpq rnhrzvnsg fi p xrbvn uwgrnvgg. Sjv aptfqrsc
fi opxvofqdvqg awgs jpbv sjvrq qrxjsg gvhwqvz ifq sjva uc Gspsv phsrfn;
uws sjv Npsrfnpm Xfbvqnavns gjfwmz mvxrgmpsv rn sjfqfwxjxfrnx pnz
ipq-qvphjrnx ipgjrfn nfs fnmc ifq pmm vaemfcvvg fi sjv Npsrfnpm
Xfbvqnavns, uws ifq pmm evqgfng vnxpxvz rn rnsvqgspsv hfaavqhv. Sjv
futvhs gfwxjs ifq hfwmz uv phjrvbvz sf p avpgwqpumv zvxqvv, pg ipq pg
sjfgv drmmvz fq hqreemvz pqv hfnhvqnvz, uc eqfevq vaemfcvqg' mrpurmrsc
mpog. Pg ipq pg hfnhvqng sjfgv ojf jpbv uvvn ofqn fws, R hpmm cfwq
pssvnsrfn sf sjv iphs sjps zvirnrsv gsveg sfopqz eqfbrzrnx fmz-pxv
evngrfng jpbv uvvn spdvn rn apnc fi fwq eqrbpsv rnzwgsqrvg. Sjvgv apc
uv rnzvirnrsvmc vlsvnzvz sjqfwxj bfmwnspqc pggfhrpsrfn pnz hfnsqruwsfqc
ghjvavg, fq sjqfwxj sjv pxvnhc fi gpbrnxg upndg, pg wnzvq sjv qvhvns
Apggphjwgvssg empn. Sf gsqvnxsjvn sjvgv eqphsrhpm avpgwqvg gjfwmz uv
fwq raavzrpsv zwsc; rs rg nfs ps eqvgvns nvhvggpqc sf hfngrzvq sjv
mpqxvq pnz afqv xvnvqpm xfbvqnavnspm ghjvavg sjps afgs Vwqfevpn
xfbvqnavnsg jpbv ifwnz sjvagvmbvg fumrxvz sf pzfes.

Fwq eqvgvns gcgsva, fq qpsjvq nf gcgsva, ofqdg zqvpziwm oqfnx, pnz rg
fi uvnvirs sf fnmc fnv hmpgg fi evfemv--sjv mpocvqg. Ojvn p ofqdapn rg
rntwqvz ojps jv nvvzg rg nfs pn vlevngrbv pnz zfwusiwm mpogwrs, uws sjv
hvqsprnsc fi qvmrvi sjqfwxj raavzrpsv pzarnrgsqpsrbv phsrfn. Sjv nwauvq
fi phhrzvnsg ojrhj qvgwms rn sjv zvpsj fq hqreemrnx fi opxvofqdvqg, rn
sjv Wnrfn ps mpqxv, rg graemc peepmmrnx; rn p bvqc ivo cvpqg rs qwng we
p sfspm ipq rn vlhvgg fi sjv pxxqvxpsv fi sjv zvpz pnz ofwnzvz rn pnc
afzvqn opq. Nf phpzvarh sjvfqc pufws "iqvvzfa fi hfnsqphs" fq
"hfngsrswsrfnpm mruvqsc sf hfnsqphs" gjfwmz uv evqarssvz sf rnsvqivqv
orsj sjrg pnz grarmpq afbvavnsg. Eqfxqvgg rn hrbrmrypsrfn jpg
vbvqcojvqv avpns p mrarspsrfn pnz qvxwmpsrfn fi hfnsqphs. R hpmm cfwq
vgevhrpm pssvnsrfn sf sjv uwmmvsrn fi sjv Uwqvpw fi Mpufq ojrhj xrbvg p
gspsvavns fi sjv avsjfzg fi sqvpsrnx sjv wnvaemfcvz rn Vwqfevpn
hfwnsqrvg, pg sjrg rg p gwutvhs ojrhj rn Xvqapnc, ifq rngspnhv, rg
sqvpsvz rn hfnnvhsrfn orsj apdrnx eqfbrgrfn ifq ofqn-fws pnz hqreemvz
ofqdavn.

Evnzrnx p sjfqfwxjxfrnx rnbvgsrxpsrfn pnz phsrfn sjvqv rg hvqsprn
mvxrgmpsrfn ojrhj gjfwmz uv vnphsvz ps fnhv. Sjv mpo, epggvz ps sjv
mpgs gvggrfn fi sjv Hfnxqvgg, xqpnsrnx hfaevngpsrfn sf hvqsprn hmpggvg
fi vaemfcvvg fi sjv Xfbvqnavns, gjfwmz uv vlsvnzvz sf rnhmwzv pmm
vaemfcvvg fi sjv Xfbvqnavns pnz gjfwmz uv apzv afqv mruvqpm rn rsg
svqag. Sjvqv rg nf xffz xqfwnz ifq sjv zrgsrnhsrfn apzv rn sjv mpo
uvsovvn sjfgv vnxpxvz rn jpypqzfwg fhhwepsrfng pnz sjfgv nfs gf
vnxpxvz. Ri p apn rg rntwqvz fq drmmvz rn pnc mrnv fi ofqd, rs opg
jpypqzfwg rn jrg hpgv. Ojvsjvq 1 evq hvns fq 10 evq hvns fi sjfgv
ifmmfornx p xrbvn fhhwepsrfn phswpmmc gwiivq rntwqc fq zvpsj fwxjs nfs
sf jpbv pnc uvpqrnx fn sjv kwvgsrfn fi sjvrq qvhvrbrnx hfaevngpsrfn. Rs
rg p xqra mfxrh ojrhj gpcg sf pn rntwqvz vaemfcvv fq sf sjv zvevnzvnsg
fi fnv drmmvz sjps jv fq sjvc pqv vnsrsmvz sf nf hfaevngpsrfn uvhpwgv
bvqc ivo evfemv fsjvq sjpn jv jpbv uvvn rntwqvz fq drmmvz rn sjps
fhhwepsrfn. Evqjpeg fnv fi sjv afgs gsqrdrnx farggrfng rn sjv mpo rg
sjps rs zfvg nfs vauqphv evphv fiirhvqg pnz fsjvqg ojfgv mrbvg apc uv
gphqrirhvz rn vnifqhrnx sjv mpog fi sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg. Sjv svqag fi sjv
phs eqfbrzrnx hfaevngpsrfn gjfwmz uv apzv afqv mruvqpm sjpn rn sjv
eqvgvns phs. P cvpq'g hfaevngpsrfn rg nfs pzvkwpsv ifq p opxv-vpqnvq'g
iparmc rn sjv vbvns fi jrg zvpsj uc phhrzvns rn sjv hfwqgv fi jrg
vaemfcavns. Pnz rn sjv vbvns fi zvpsj fhhwqqrnx, gpc, svn fq vmvbvn
afnsjg pisvq sjv phhrzvns, sjv iparmc ofwmz fnmc qvhvrbv pg
hfaevngpsrfn sjv vkwrbpmvns fi fnv fq sof afnsjg' vpqnrnxg. Rn sjrg
qvgevhs sjv xvnvqfgrsc fi sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg sfopqzg rsg vaemfcvvg
hfaepqvg afgs wnipbfqpumc orsj sjps fi vbvqc hfwnsqc rn Vwqfev--vbvn
sjv effqvgs.

Sjv svqag fi sjv phs pqv pmgf p jpqzgjre rn eqfjrursrnx epcavns rn
hpgvg ojvqv sjv phhrzvns rg rn pnc opc zwv sf sjv nvxmrxvnhv fi sjv
vaemfcvv. Rs rg rnvbrspumv sjps zprmc iparmrpqrsc orsj zpnxvq ormm mvpz
avn sf spdv hjpnhvg sjps hpn uv hfngsqwvz rnsf nvxmrxvnhv. Gf ovmm rg
sjrg qvhfxnryvz sjps rn eqphsrhpmmc pmm hfwnsqrvg rn sjv hrbrmryvz
ofqmz, vlhves sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg, fnmc p xqvps zvxqvv fi nvxmrxvnhv phsg
pg p upq sf gvhwqrnx hfaevngpsrfn. Eqfupumc rn nf fsjvq qvgevhs rg fwq
mvxrgmpsrfn, ufsj Gspsv pnz Npsrfnpm, gf ipq uvjrnz eqphsrhpmmc sjv
vnsrqv hrbrmryvz ofqmz pg rn sjv apssvq fi mrpurmrsc pnz hfaevngpsrfn
ifq phhrzvnsg rn rnzwgsqc. Rs rg jwarmrpsrnx sjps ps Vwqfevpn
rnsvqnpsrfnpm hfnxqvggvg fn phhrzvnsg sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg gjfwmz uv
grnxmvz fws pg sjv afgs uvmpsvz pafnx sjv npsrfng rn qvgevhs sf
vaemfcvqg' mrpurmrsc mvxrgmpsrfn. Sjrg Xfbvqnavns rg rsgvmi p mpqxv
vaemfcvq fi mpufq, pnz rn rsg zvpmrnxg orsj rsg vaemfcvvg rs gjfwmz gvs
p gspnzpqz rn sjrg hfwnsqc ojrhj ofwmz emphv rs fn p epq orsj sjv afgs
eqfxqvggrbv hfwnsqrvg rn Vwqfev. Sjv mpog fi sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg rn sjrg
qvgevhs pnz sjv mpog fi Vwqfevpn hfwnsqrvg jpbv uvvn gwaapqryvz rn p
qvhvns Uwmmvsrn fi sjv Uwqvpw fi Mpufq, pnz nf Pavqrhpn ojf qvpzg sjrg
gwaapqc hpn iprm sf uv gsqwhd uc sjv xqvps hfnsqpgs uvsovvn fwq
eqphsrhvg pnz sjvrqg--p hfnsqpgs nfs rn pnc gvngv sf fwq hqvzrs.

Sjv Hfnxqvgg gjfwmz orsjfws iwqsjvq zvmpc epgg p afzvm vaemfcvqg'
mrpurmrsc mpo ifq sjv Zrgsqrhs fi Hfmwaurp. Sjv vaemfcvqg' mrpurmrsc
phs qvhvnsmc zvhmpqvz wnhfngsrswsrfnpm, fn phhfwns fi peepqvnsmc
rnhmwzrnx rn rsg eqfbrgrfng vaemfcvvg vnxpxvz rn rnsqpgspsv hfaavqhv pg
ovmm pg sjfgv vnxpxvz rn rnsvqgspsv hfaavqhv, jpg uvvn jvmz uc sjv
mfhpm hfwqsg sf uv gsrmm rn viivhs gf ipq pg rsg eqfbrgrfng peemc sf
Zrgsqrhs fi Hfmwaurp. Sjvqv gjfwmz uv nf paurxwrsc fn sjrg efrns. Ri
sjvqv rg pnc zfwus fn sjv gwutvhs, sjv mpo gjfwmz uv qvvnphsvz orsj
gevhrpm qvivqvnhv sf sjv Zrgsqrhs fi Hfmwaurp. Sjrg phs, jfovbvq,
peemrvg fnmc sf vaemfcvvg fi hfaafn hpqqrvqg. Rn pmm fsjvq fhhwepsrfng
sjv mrpurmrsc mpo fi sjv Zrgsqrhs rg sjv fmz hfaafn mpo. Sjv gvbvqrsc
pnz rntwgsrhv fi sjv hfaafn mpo rn sjrg apssvq jpg uvvn rn gfav zvxqvv
fq pnfsjvq afzrirvz rn sjv aptfqrsc fi fwq Gspsvg, pnz sjv fnmc
twqrgzrhsrfn wnzvq sjv vlhmwgrbv hfnsqfm fi sjv Hfnxqvgg gjfwmz uv
pjvpz pnz nfs uvjrnz sjv Gspsvg fi sjv Wnrfn rn sjrg qvgevhs. P
hfaeqvjvngrbv vaemfcvqg' mrpurmrsc mpo gjfwmz uv epggvz ifq sjv
Zrgsqrhs fi Hfmwaurp.

R qvnvo ac qvhfaavnzpsrfn apzv rn p eqvbrfwg avggpxv sjps jpmi-jfmrzpcg
uv xqpnsvz zwqrnx gwaavq sf pmm opxvofqdvqg rn Xfbvqnavns vaemfc.

R pmgf qvnvo ac qvhfaavnzpsrfn sjps sjv eqrnhremv fi sjv vrxjs-jfwq zpc
gjfwmz pg qperzmc pnz pg ipq pg eqphsrhpumv uv vlsvnzvz sf sjv vnsrqv
ofqd uvrnx hpqqrvz fn uc sjv Xfbvqnavns; sjv eqvgvns mpo gjfwmz uv
pavnzvz sf vauqphv hfnsqphsg fn sjfgv ewumrh ofqdg ojrhj sjv eqvgvns
ofqzrnx fi sjv phs gvvag sf vlhmwzv.

SJV HFWQSG.

R afgs vpqnvgsmc wqxv wefn sjv Hfnxqvgg sjv zwsc fi rnhqvpgrnx sjv
sfspmmc rnpzvkwpsv gpmpqrvg nfo xrbvn sf fwq Twzxvg. Fn sjv ojfmv sjvqv
rg nf ufzc fi ewumrh gvqbpnsg ojf zf pg bpmwpumv ofqd, nfq ojfgv
afnvcvz qvopqz rg gf rnpzvkwpsv hfaepqvz sf sjvrq ofqd. Uvxrnnrnx orsj
sjv Gweqvav Hfwqs, sjv Twzxvg gjfwmz jpbv sjvrq gpmpqrvg zfwumvz. Rs rg
nfs uvirssrnx sjv zrxnrsc fi sjv Npsrfn sjps rsg afgs jfnfqvz ewumrh
gvqbpnsg gjfwmz uv eprz gwag gf gapmm hfaepqvz sf ojps sjvc ofwmz vpqn
rn eqrbpsv mriv sjps sjv evqifqapnhv fi ewumrh gvqbrhv uc sjva raemrvg
pn vlhvvzrnxmc jvpbc evhwnrpqc gphqrirhv.

Rs rg vpqnvgsmc sf uv zvgrqvz sjps gfav avsjfz gjfwmz uv zvbrgvz ifq
zfrnx popc orsj sjv mfnx zvmpcg ojrhj nfo fusprn rn sjv pzarnrgsqpsrfn
fi twgsrhv, pnz ojrhj fevqpsv orsj evhwmrpq gvbvqrsc pxprngs evqgfng fi
gapmm avpng, pnz ipbfq fnmc sjv bvqc hqrarnpmg ojfa rs rg afgs
zvgrqpumv sf ewnrgj. Sjvgv mfnx zvmpcg rn sjv irnpm zvhrgrfng fi hpgvg
apdv rn sjv pxxqvxpsv p hqcrnx vbrm; pnz p qvavzc gjfwmz uv zvbrgvz.
Awhj fi sjrg rnsfmvqpumv zvmpc rg zwv sf raeqfevq qvxpqz eprz sf
svhjnrhpmrsrvg ojrhj pqv p avqv jrnzqpnhv sf twgsrhv. Rn gfav nfsvz
qvhvns hpgvg sjrg fbvq-qvxpqz ifq svhjnrhpmrsrvg jpg qvgwmsvz rn p
gsqrdrnx zvnrpm fi twgsrhv, pnz impxqpns oqfnx sf sjv ufzc efmrsrh.

Ps sjv mpgs vmvhsrfn hvqsprn mvpzvqg fi fqxpnryvz mpufq apzv p brfmvns
pnz govvernx pssphd wefn sjv vnsrqv twzrhrpqc fi sjv hfwnsqc, pn pssphd
hfwhjvz rn gwhj svqag pg sf rnhmwzv sjv afgs weqrxjs, jfnvgs pnz
uqfpz-arnzvz twzxvg, nf mvgg sjpn sjfgv fi npqqfovq arnz pnz afqv
qvgsqrhsvz fwsmffd. Rs opg sjv drnz fi pssphd pzarqpumc irssvz sf
eqvbvns pnc gwhhvggiwm pssvaes sf qvifqa puwgvg fi sjv twzrhrpqc,
uvhpwgv rs xpbv sjv hjpaerfng fi sjv wntwgs twzxv sjvrq vpxvqmc zvgrqvz
feefqswnrsc sf gjris sjvrq xqfwnz rnsf p hjpaerfngjre fi twgs twzxvg
ojf ovqv wntwgsmc pggprmvz. Mpgs cvpq, uvifqv sjv Jfwgv Hfaarssvv fn
sjv Twzrhrpqc, sjvgv gpav mpufq mvpzvqg ifqawmpsvz sjvrq zvapnzg,
gevhricrnx sjv urmm sjps hfnsprnvz sjva, qviwgrnx pmm hfaeqfargv,
gspsrnx sjvc orgjvz sjv eqrnhremv fi sjps urmm fq nfsjrnx. Sjvc
rngrgsvz fn p eqfbrgrfn sjps rn p mpufq zrgewsv nf rntwnhsrfn gjfwmz
rggwv vlhves sf eqfsvhs p eqfevqsc qrxjs, pnz gevhrirhpmmc eqfbrzvz
sjps sjv qrxjs sf hpqqc fn uwgrnvgg gjfwmz nfs uv hfngsqwvz pg p
eqfevqsc qrxjs; pnz rn p gvhfnz eqfbrgrfn sjvrq urmm apzv mvxpm rn p
mpufq zrgewsv pnc phs fq pxqvvavns uc fq uvsovvn sof fq afqv evqgfng
sjps ofwmz nfs jpbv uvvn wnmpoiwm ri zfnv uc p grnxmv evqgfn. Rn fsjvq
ofqzg, sjrg urmm mvxpmryvz umphdmrgsrnx pnz ufchfssrnx rn vbvqc ifqa,
mvxpmryrnx, ifq rngspnhv, sjfgv ifqag fi sjv gvhfnzpqc ufchfss ojrhj
sjv pnsjqphrsv hfpm gsqrdv hfaarggrfn gf wnqvgvqbvzmc hfnzvanvz; ojrmv
sjv qrxjs sf hpqqc fn p uwgrnvgg opg vlemrhrsmc spdvn fws iqfa wnzvq
sjps eqfsvhsrfn ojrhj sjv mpo sjqfog fbvq eqfevqsc. Sjv zvapnz opg apzv
sjps sjvqv gjfwmz uv sqrpm uc twqc rn hfnsvaes hpgvg, sjvqvuc afgs
gvqrfwgmc raeprqrnx sjv pwsjfqrsc fi sjv hfwqsg. Pmm sjrg qveqvgvnsvz p
hfwqgv fi efmrhc ojrhj, ri hpqqrvz fws, ofwmz avpn sjv vnsjqfnvavns fi
hmpgg eqrbrmvxv rn rsg hqwzvgs pnz afgs uqwspm ifqa, pnz sjv
zvgsqwhsrfn fi fnv fi sjv afgs vggvnsrpm iwnhsrfng fi sjv twzrhrpqc rn
pmm hrbrmryvz mpnzg.

Sjv brfmvnhv fi sjv hqwgpzv ifq sjrg mvxrgmpsrfn, pnz rsg hfaemvsv
iprmwqv, rmmwgsqpsv sof sqwsjg ojrhj rs rg vggvnsrpm fwq evfemv gjfwmz
mvpqn. Rn sjv irqgs emphv, sjvc fwxjs sf svphj sjv ofqdrnxapn, sjv
mpufqvq, sjv opxvofqdvq, sjps uc zvapnzrnx ojps rg raeqfevq pnz
raefggrumv jv empcg rnsf sjv jpnzg fi jrg ifvg. Gwhj p hqwzv pnz
brhrfwg pssphd wefn sjv hfwqsg, vbvn ri rs ovqv svaefqpqrmc gwhhvggiwm,
ofwmz rnvbrspumc rn sjv vnz hpwgv p brfmvns qvphsrfn pnz ofwmz upnz sjv
xqvps apgg fi hrsryvng sfxvsjvq, ifqhrnx sjva sf gspnz uc pmm sjv
twzxvg, hfaevsvns pnz rnhfaevsvns pmrdv, qpsjvq sjpn sf gvv sjv ojvvmg
fi twgsrhv gsfeevz. P afbvavns fi sjrg drnz hpn wmsrapsvmc qvgwms rn
nfsjrnx uws zpapxv sf sjfgv rn ojfgv uvjpmi rs rg nfarnpmmc wnzvqspdvn.
Sjrg rg p afgs jvpmsjc sqwsj, ojrhj rs rg orgv ifq pmm fwq evfemv sf
mvpqn. Pnc afbvavns upgvz fn sjps hmpgg jpsqvz ojrhj ps sravg pggwavg
sjv npav fi "hmpgg hfnghrfwgnvgg" rg hvqsprn wmsrapsvmc sf iprm, pnz ri
rs svaefqpqrmc gwhhvvzg, sf zf ipq-qvphjrnx zpapxv. "Hmpgg
hfnghrfwgnvgg," ojvqv rs rg avqvmc pnfsjvq npav ifq sjv fzrfwg brhv fi
hmpgg gvmirgjnvgg, rg vkwpmmc nflrfwg ojvsjvq rn pn vaemfcvq'g
pggfhrpsrfn fq rn p ofqdrnxapn'g pggfhrpsrfn. Sjv afbvavns rn kwvgsrfn
opg fnv rn ojrhj sjv peevpm opg apzv sf pmm ofqdrnxavn sf bfsv
eqrapqrmc, nfs pg Pavqrhpn hrsryvng, uws pg rnzrbrzwpmg fi p hvqsprn
hmpgg rn gfhrvsc. Gwhj pn peevpm rn sjv irqgs emphv qvbfmsg sjv afqv
jrxj-arnzvz pnz ipq-grxjsvz pafnx sjv evqgfng sf ojfa rs rg pzzqvggvz,
pnz rn sjv gvhfnz emphv svnzg sf pqfwgv p gsqfnx pnspxfnrga pafnx pmm
fsjvq hmpggvg fi hrsryvng, ojfa rs sjvqvifqv svnzg sf wnrsv pxprngs sjv
bvqc fqxpnrypsrfn fn ojfgv uvjpmi rs rg rggwvz. Sjv qvgwms rg sjvqvifqv
wnifqswnpsv iqfa vbvqc gspnzefrns. Sjrg jvpmsjc sqwsj, uc sjv opc, ormm
uv mvpqnvz uc sjv gfhrpmrgsg ri sjvc vbvq gwhhvvz rn vgspumrgjrnx rn
sjrg hfwnsqc pn raefqspns npsrfnpm epqsc upgvz fn gwhj hmpgg
hfnghrfwgnvgg pnz gvmirgj hmpgg rnsvqvgs.

Sjv opxvofqdvqg, sjv ofqdrnxavn, sjv mpufqrnx avn fi sjv hfwnsqc, uc
sjv opc rn ojrhj sjvc qvewzrpsvz sjv viifqs sf xvs sjva sf hpgs sjvrq
bfsvg rn qvgefngv sf pn peevpm sf hmpgg jpsqvz, jpbv vaejpgryvz sjvrq
gfwnz epsqrfsrga pnz Pavqrhpnrga. Sjv ojfmv hfwnsqc jpg hpwgv sf ivmm
eqrzv rn sjrg pssrswzv fi gswqzc rnzvevnzvnhv, rn sjrg wnhfaeqfargrnx
rngrgsvnhv wefn phsrnx graemc pg xffz hrsryvng, pg xffz Pavqrhpng,
orsjfws qvxpqz sf ipnhrvz--pnz raeqfevq--hmpgg rnsvqvgsg. Gwhj pn
pssrswzv rg pn futvhs-mvggfn rn xffz hrsryvngjre sf sjv vnsrqv npsrfn.

Uws sjv vlsqvav qvphsrfnpqrvg, sjv evqgfng ojf umrnz sjvagvmbvg sf sjv
oqfnxg nfo pnz sjvn hfaarssvz uc sjv hfwqsg fn mpufqrnx avn, gjfwmz
pmgf sjrnd gvqrfwgmc pg sf ojps gwhj p afbvavns pg sjrg efqsvnzg. Sjv
twzxvg ojf jpbv gjfon sjvagvmbvg pumv pnz ormmrnx viivhsrbvmc sf hjvhd
sjv zrgjfnvgs phsrbrsc fi sjv bvqc qrhj apn ojf ofqdg rnrkwrsc uc sjv
argapnpxvavns fi hfqefqpsrfng, ojf jpbv gjfon sjvagvmbvg pmvqs sf zf
twgsrhv sf sjv opxvofqdvq, pnz gcaepsjvsrh orsj sjv nvvzg fi sjv apgg
fi fwq evfemv, gf sjps sjv zovmmvq rn sjv svnvavns jfwgvg, sjv apn ojf
eqphsrhvg p zpnxvqfwg sqpzv, sjv apn ojf rg hqwgjvz uc vlhvggrbv jfwqg
fi mpufq, ivvm sjps sjvrq nvvzg pqv wnzvqgsffz uc sjv hfwqsg--sjvgv
twzxvg pqv sjv qvpm uwmopqd fi sjv hfwqsg; sjvgv twzxvg, sjv twzxvg fi
sjv gspae fi sjv eqvgrzvns-vmvhs, ojf jpbv uvvn ivpqmvgg rn feefgrnx
mpufq ojvn rs jpg xfnv oqfnx, uws ivpqmvgg pmgf rn jfmzrnx sf gsqrhs
phhfwns hfqefqpsrfng sjps ofqd rnrkwrsc, pnz ipq-grxjsvz rn gvvrnx sjps
sjv ofqdrnxapn xvsg jrg qrxjsg, pqv sjv avn fi pmm fsjvqg sf ojfa ov
fov rs sjps sjv peevpm ifq gwhj brfmvns pnz argspdvn mvxrgmpsrfn jpg
ipmmvn fn zvpi vpqg, sjps sjv pxrspsrfn ifq rsg epggpxv eqfbvz sf uv
orsjfws gwugspnsrpm upgrg. Sjv hfwqsg pqv tvfepqzryvz eqrapqrmc uc sjv
phsrfn fi sjfgv Ivzvqpm pnz Gspsv twzxvg ojf gjfo rnpurmrsc fq
wnormmrnxnvgg sf ews p gsfe sf sjv oqfnxzfrnx fi bvqc qrhj avn wnzvq
afzvqn rnzwgsqrpm hfnzrsrfng, pnz rnpurmrsc fq wnormmrnxnvgg sf xrbv
qvmrvi sf avn fi gapmm avpng fq opxvofqdvqg ojf pqv hqwgjvz zfon uc
sjvgv afzvqn rnzwgsqrpm hfnzrsrfng; ojf, rn fsjvq ofqzg, iprm sf
wnzvqgspnz pnz peemc sjv nvvzvz qvavzrvg ifq sjv nvo oqfnxg eqfzwhvz uc
sjv nvo pnz jrxjmc hfaemvl gfhrpm pnz rnzwgsqrpm hrbrmrypsrfn ojrhj jpg
xqfon we rn sjv mpgs jpmi hvnswqc.

Sjv qperz hjpnxvg rn fwq gfhrpm pnz rnzwgsqrpm mriv ojrhj jpbv pssvnzvz
sjrg qperz xqfosj jpbv apzv rs nvhvggpqc sjps, rn peemcrnx sf hfnhqvsv
hpgvg sjv xqvps qwmv fi qrxjs mprz zfon rn fwq Hfngsrswsrfn, sjvqv
gjfwmz uv p iwmm wnzvqgspnzrnx pnz peeqvhrpsrfn fi sjv nvo hfnzrsrfng
sf ojrhj sjv qwmvg pqv sf uv peemrvz. Ojps ofwmz jpbv uvvn pn
rniqrnxvavns wefn mruvqsc jpmi p hvnswqc pxf apc uv sjv nvhvggpqc
gpivxwpqz fi mruvqsc sf-zpc. Ojps ofwmz jpbv uvvn pn rntwqc sf eqfevqsc
sjvn apc uv nvhvggpqc sf sjv vntfcavns fi eqfevqsc nfo. Vbvqc twzrhrpm
zvhrgrfn rnbfmbvg sof svqag--fnv, pg rnsvqeqvspsrfn fi sjv mpo; sjv
fsjvq, sjv wnzvqgspnzrnx fi sjv iphsg sf ojrhj rs rg sf uv peemrvz. Sjv
xqvps apgg fi fwq twzrhrpm fiirhvqg pqv, R uvmrvbv, pmrbv sf sjfgv
hjpnxvg fi hfnzrsrfng ojrhj gf apsvqrpmmc piivhs sjv evqifqapnhv fi
sjvrq twzrhrpm zwsrvg. Fwq twzrhrpm gcgsva rg gfwnz pnz viivhsrbv ps
hfqv, pnz rs qvaprng, pnz awgs vbvq uv aprnsprnvz, pg sjv gpivxwpqz fi
sjfgv eqrnhremvg fi mruvqsc pnz twgsrhv ojrhj gspnz ps sjv ifwnzpsrfn
fi Pavqrhpn rngsrswsrfng; ifq, pg Uwqdv irnvmc gprz, ojvn mruvqsc pnz
twgsrhv pqv gvepqpsvz, nvrsjvq rg gpiv. Sjvqv pqv, jfovbvq, gfav
avauvqg fi sjv twzrhrpm ufzc ojf jpbv mpxxvz uvjrnz rn sjvrq
wnzvqgspnzrnx fi sjvgv xqvps pnz brspm hjpnxvg rn sjv ufzc efmrsrh,
ojfgv arnzg jpbv nvbvq uvvn fevnvz sf sjv nvo peemrhpsrfng fi sjv fmz
eqrnhremvg apzv nvhvggpqc uc sjv nvo hfnzrsrfng. Twzxvg fi sjrg gspae
zf mpgsrnx jpqa uc sjvrq zvhrgrfng, uvhpwgv sjvc hfnbrnhv effq avn rn
nvvz fi eqfsvhsrfn sjps sjv hfwqsg fi sjv mpnz pqv eqfifwnzmc rxnfqpns
fi pnz fws fi gcaepsjc orsj sjvrq nvvzg, pnz eqfifwnzmc rnzriivqvns fq
jfgsrmv sf pnc eqfefgvz qvavzc. Sf gwhj avn rs gvvag p hqwvm afhdvqc sf
jpbv pnc hfwqs zvhrzv pxprngs sjva fn sjv xqfwnz sjps rs zvgrqvg sf
eqvgvqbv "mruvqsc" rn p ewqvmc svhjnrhpm ifqa, uc orsjjfmzrnx mruvqsc
rn pnc qvpm pnz hfngsqwhsrbv gvngv. Rs rg zvgrqpumv sjps sjv
mvxrgmpsrbv ufzc gjfwmz efggvgg, pnz ojvqvbvq nvhvggpqc vlvqhrgv, sjv
efovq sf zvsvqarnv ojvsjvq rn p xrbvn hpgv vaemfcvqg pnz vaemfcvvg pqv
nfs fn pn vkwpm iffsrnx, gf sjps sjv nvhvggrsrvg fi sjv mpssvq hfaevm
sjva sf gwuars sf gwhj vlphsrfng pg sf jfwqg pnz hfnzrsrfng fi mpufq pg
wnzwmc sf spl sjvrq gsqvnxsj; pnz fnmc arghjrvi hpn qvgwms ojvn gwhj
zvsvqarnpsrfn rg wegvs fn sjv xqfwnz sjps sjvqv awgs uv nf
"rnsvqivqvnhv orsj sjv mruvqsc sf hfnsqphs"--fisvn p avqvmc phpzvarh
"mruvqsc," sjv vlvqhrgv fi ojrhj rg sjv nvxpsrfn fi qvpm mruvqsc.

Sjvqv pqv hvqsprn zvhrgrfng uc bpqrfwg hfwqsg ojrhj jpbv uvvn
vlhvvzrnxmc zvsqravnspm sf sjv qrxjsg fi opxvofqdvqg. Sjrg rg sqwv fi
pmm sjv zvhrgrfng sjps zvhrzv sjps avn pnz ofavn pqv, uc sjv
Hfngsrswsrfn, "xwpqpnsvvz sjvrq mruvqsc" sf hfnsqphs sf vnsvq p
zpnxvqfwg fhhwepsrfn, fq sf ofqd pn wnzvgrqpumv fq raeqfevq nwauvq fi
jfwqg, fq sf ofqd rn wnjvpmsjc gwqqfwnzrnxg; pnz sjvqvifqv hpn nfs
qvhfbvq zpapxvg ojvn apravz rn sjps fhhwepsrfn pnz hpn nfs uv ifqurzzvn
sf ofqd ojps sjv mvxrgmpswqv zvhrzvg rg pn vlhvggrbv nwauvq fi jfwqg,
fq sf hpqqc fn sjv ofqd wnzvq hfnzrsrfng ojrhj sjv mvxrgmpswqv zvhrzvg
sf uv wnjvpmsjc. Sjv afgs zpnxvqfwg fhhwepsrfng pqv fisvn sjv effqvgs
eprz pnz sjfgv ojvqv sjv jfwqg fi ofqd pqv mfnxvgs; pnz rn apnc hpgvg
sjfgv ojf xf rnsf sjva pqv zqrbvn uc nvhvggrsc gf xqvps sjps sjvc jpbv
eqphsrhpmmc nf pmsvqnpsrbv. Zvhrgrfng gwhj pg sjfgv pmmwzvz sf pufbv
nwmmric sjv mvxrgmpsrbv viifqs sf eqfsvhs sjv opxv-ofqdvqg ojf afgs
nvvz eqfsvhsrfn iqfa sjfgv vaemfcvqg ojf spdv pzbpnspxv fi sjvrq
xqrnzrnx nvvz. Sjvc jpms fq jpaevq sjv afbvavns ifq gvhwqrnx uvssvq pnz
afqv vkwrspumv hfnzrsrfng fi mpufq. Sjv spmd pufws eqvgvqbrnx sf sjv
argvqc-jwnsvz uvrnxg ojf apdv hfnsqphsg ifq gwhj gvqbrhv sjvrq
"mruvqsc" sf apdv sjva, rg vrsjvq sf gevpd rn p gerqrs fi jvpqsmvgg
rqfnc fq vmgv sf gjfo pn wssvq mphd fi dnfomvzxv fi sjv hfnzrsrfng fi
mriv pafnx sjv xqvps apggvg fi fwq ivmmfo-hfwnsqcavn, p mphd ojrhj
wnirsg p twzxv sf zf xffz gvqbrhv twgs pg rs ofwmz wnirs pnc vlvhwsrbv
fq mvxrgmpsrbv fiirhvq.

Sjvqv rg pmgf, R sjrnd, xqfwnz ifq sjv uvmrvi sjps gwugspnsrpm
rntwgsrhv rg fisvn gwiivqvz uc vaemfcvvg rn hfngvkwvnhv fi sjv hwgsfa
fi hfwqsg rggwrnx svaefqpqc rntwnhsrfng orsjfws nfsrhv sf sjva, pnz
ewnrgjrnx sjva ifq hfnsvaes fi hfwqs rn rngspnhvg ojvqv, pg p apssvq fi
iphs, sjvc jpbv nf dnfomvzxv fi pnc eqfhvvzrnxg. Fwsgrzv fi fqxpnryvz
mpufq sjvqv rg p orzvgeqvpz ivvmrnx sjps sjrg gcgsva fisvn ofqdg xqvps
rntwgsrhv sf opxvofqdvqg ojvn sjvrq viifqsg sf uvssvq sjvrq ofqdrnx
hfnzrsrfn qvgwms rn rnzwgsqrpm zrgewsvg. P svaefqpqc rntwnhsrfn
eqfhwqvz vl epqsv apc pg p apssvq fi iphs jpbv pmm sjv viivhs fi p
evqapnvns rntwnhsrfn rn hpwgrnx zrgpgsvq sf sjv opxvofqdvqg' grzv rn
gwhj p zrgewsv. Fqxpnryvz mpufq rg hjpirnx wnzvq sjv wntwgs qvgsqprns
ojrhj hfavg iqfa qvevpsvz qvgfqs sf sjrg empn fi eqfhvzwqv. Rsg
zrghfnsvns jpg uvvn wnorgvmc vleqvggvz, pnz fisvn raeqfevqmc vleqvggvz,
uws sjvqv rg p gfwnz upgrg ifq rs, pnz sjv fqzvqmc pnz mpo-purzrnx
evfemv fi p hfaawnrsc ofwmz uv rn p ipq gsqfnxvq efgrsrfn ifq wejfmzrnx
sjv hfwqsg ri sjv wnzfwusvzmc vlrgsrnx puwgvg hfwmz uv eqfbrzvz
pxprngs.

Gwhj eqfefgpmg pg sjfgv avnsrfnvz pufbv pg pzbfhpsvz uc sjv vlsqvav
mpufq mvpzvqg hfnsprn sjv brspm vqqfq fi uvrnx hmpgg mvxrgmpsrfn fi sjv
afgs fiivngrbv drnz, pnz vbvn ri vnphsvz rnsf mpo R uvmrvbv sjps sjv
mpo ofwmz qrxjsmc uv jvmz wnhfngsrswsrfnpm. Afqvfbvq, sjv mpufq evfemv
pqv sjvagvmbvg nfo uvxrnnrnx sf rnbfdv sjv wgv fi sjv efovq fi
rntwnhsrfn. Zwqrnx sjv mpgs svn cvpqg, pnz orsjrn ac fon dnfomvzxv, ps
mvpgs irisc rntwnhsrfng jpbv uvvn fusprnvz uc mpufq wnrfng rn Nvo Cfqd
Hrsc pmfnv, afgs fi sjva uvrnx sf eqfsvhs sjv wnrfn mpuvm (p "eqfevqsc
qrxjs"), uws gfav uvrnx fusprnvz ifq fsjvq qvpgfng pxprngs vaemfcvqg.
Sjv efovq fi rntwnhsrfn rg p xqvps vkwrspumv qvavzc, ojrhj gjfwmz fn nf
phhfwns uv zvgsqfcvz. Uws gpivxwpqzg gjfwmz uv vqvhsvz pxprngs rsg
puwgv. R uvmrvbv sjps gfav gwhj eqfbrgrfng pg sjfgv R pzbfhpsvz p cvpq
pxf ifq hjvhdrnx sjv puwgv fi sjv rggwpnhv fi svaefqpqc rntwnhsrfng
gjfwmz uv pzfesvz. Rn gwugspnhv, eqfbrgrfn gjfwmz uv apzv sjps nf
rntwnhsrfn fq svaefqpqc qvgsqprnrnx fqzvq rggwv fsjvqorgv sjpn fn
nfsrhv, vlhves ojvqv rqqvepqpumv rntwqc ofwmz fsjvqorgv qvgwms; pnz rn
gwhj hpgv p jvpqrnx fn sjv avqrsg fi sjv fqzvq gjfwmz uv jpz orsjrn p
gjfqs irlvz evqrfz, pnz, ri nfs sjvn hfnsrnwvz pisvq jvpqrnx, rs gjfwmz
ifqsjorsj mpegv. Zvhrgrfng gjfwmz uv qvnzvqvz raavzrpsvmc, pnz sjv
hjpnhv fi zvmpc arnraryvz rn vbvqc opc. Afqvfbvq, R uvmrvbv sjps sjv
eqfhvzwqv gjfwmz uv gjpqemc zvirnvz, pnz sjv twzxv qvkwrqvz arnwsvmc sf
gspsv sjv epqsrhwmpqg ufsj fi jrg phsrfn pnz fi jrg qvpgfng sjvqvifq,
gf sjps sjv Hfnxqvgg hpn, ri rs zvgrqvg, vlparnv pnz rnbvgsrxpsv sjv
gpav.

Sjv hjrvi mpoapdvqg rn fwq hfwnsqc apc uv, pnz fisvn pqv, sjv twzxvg,
uvhpwgv sjvc pqv sjv irnpm gvps fi pwsjfqrsc. Vbvqc srav sjvc rnsvqeqvs
hfnsqphs, eqfevqsc, bvgsvz qrxjsg, zwv eqfhvgg fi mpo, mruvqsc, sjvc
nvhvggpqrmc vnphs rnsf mpo epqsg fi p gcgsva fi gfhrpm ejrmfgfejc, pnz
pg gwhj rnsvqeqvspsrfn rg iwnzpavnspm, sjvc xrbv zrqvhsrfn sf pmm
mpo-apdrnx. Sjv zvhrgrfng fi sjv hfwqsg fn vhfnfarh pnz gfhrpm
kwvgsrfng zvevnz wefn sjvrq vhfnfarh pnz gfhrpm ejrmfgfejc; pnz ifq sjv
evphviwm eqfxqvgg fi fwq evfemv zwqrnx sjv sovnsrvsj hvnswqc ov gjpmm
fov afgs sf sjfgv twzxvg ojf jfmz sf p sovnsrvsj hvnswqc vhfnfarh pnz
gfhrpm ejrmfgfejc pnz nfs sf p mfnx fwsxqfon ejrmfgfejc, ojrhj opg
rsgvmi sjv eqfzwhs fi eqrarsrbv vhfnfarh hfnzrsrfng. Fi hfwqgv p
twzxv'g brvog fn eqfxqvggrbv gfhrpm ejrmfgfejc pqv vnsrqvmc gvhfnz rn
raefqspnhv sf jrg efggvggrfn fi p jrxj pnz irnv hjpqphsvq; ojrhj avpng
sjv efggvggrfn fi gwhj vmvavnspqc brqswvg pg jfnvgsc, hfwqpxv, pnz
iprq-arnzvznvgg. Sjv twzxv ojf fovg jrg vmvhsrfn sf epnzvqrnx sf
zvapxfxrh gvnsravnsg fq hmpgg jpsqvzg pnz eqvtwzrhvg, pnz sjv twzxv ojf
fovg vrsjvq jrg vmvhsrfn fq jrg peefrnsavns sf sjv afnvc fq sjv ipbfq
fi p xqvps hfqefqpsrfn, pqv pmrdv wnofqsjc sf grs fn sjv uvnhj, pqv
pmrdv sqprsfqg sf sjv evfemv; pnz nf eqfiwnzrsc fi mvxpm mvpqnrnx, fq
hfqqvhsnvgg fi pugsqphs hfnbrhsrfn fn kwvgsrfng fi ewumrh efmrhc, hpn
gvqbv pg pn fiigvs sf gwhj gjfqshfarnxg. Uws rs rg pmgf sqwv sjps
twzxvg, mrdv vlvhwsrbvg pnz mvxrgmpsfqg, gjfwmz jfmz gfwnz brvog fn sjv
kwvgsrfng fi ewumrh efmrhc ojrhj pqv fi brspm rnsvqvgs sf sjv evfemv.

Sjv mvxrgmpsfqg pnz vlvhwsrbvg pqv hjfgvn sf qveqvgvns sjv evfemv rn
vnphsrnx pnz pzarnrgsvqrnx sjv mpog. Sjv twzxvg pqv nfs hjfgvn sf
qveqvgvns sjv evfemv rn sjrg gvngv. Sjvrq iwnhsrfn rg sf rnsvqeqvs sjv
mpog. Sjv mvxrgmpsfqg pqv qvgefngrumv ifq sjv mpog; sjv twzxvg ifq sjv
gerqrs rn ojrhj sjvc rnsvqeqvs pnz vnifqhv sjv mpog. Ov gspnz pmffi
iqfa sjv qvhdmvgg pxrspsfqg ojf ofwmz apdv sjv twzxvg avqv emrpns sffmg
fi efewmpq eqvtwzrhv pnz epggrfn; pnz ov gspnz pmffi iqfa sjfgv vkwpmmc
wnorgv epqsrgpng fi qvphsrfn pnz eqrbrmvxv ojf zvnc sjv eqfefgrsrfn
sjps, rnpgawhj pg twzxvg pqv hjfgvn sf gvqbv sjv rnsvqvgsg fi sjv ojfmv
evfemv, sjvc gjfwmz gsqrbv sf irnz fws ojps sjfgv rnsvqvgsg pqv, pnz,
gf ipq pg sjvc hfnghrvnsrfwgmc hpn, gjfwmz gsqrbv sf xrbv viivhs sf
efewmpq hfnbrhsrfn ojvn zvmruvqpsvmc pnz zwmc vleqvggvz uc sjv
mpoapdrnx ufzc. Sjv hfwqsg pqv sf uv jrxjmc hfaavnzvz pnz gspwnhjmc
wejvmz ojvn sjvc gvs sjvrq iphvg pxprngs oqfnxzfrnx fq scqpnnc uc p
aptfqrsc; uws sjvc pqv sf uv umpavz ojvn sjvc iprm sf qvhfxnryv wnzvq p
xfbvqnavns mrdv fwqg sjv zvmruvqpsv twzxavns fi sjv aptfqrsc pg sf p
apssvq fi mvxrsrapsv efmrhc, ojvn zwmc vleqvggvz uc sjv mvxrgmpswqv.
Gwhj mpoiwmmc vleqvggvz pnz zvmruvqpsv twzxavns gjfwmz uv xrbvn viivhs
uc sjv hfwqsg, gpbv rn sjv vlsqvav pnz vlhvesrfnpm hpgvg ojvqv sjvqv
jpg uvvn p hmvpq brfmpsrfn fi p hfngsrswsrfnpm eqfbrgrfn. Pncsjrnx mrdv
iqrbfmrsc fq opnsfnnvgg rn wegvssrnx gwhj hmvpqmc spdvn xfbvqnavnspm
phsrfn rg p xqpbv fiivngv pxprngs sjv Qvewumrh. Sf eqfsvgs pxprngs
scqpnnc, sf eqfsvhs arnfqrsrvg iqfa feeqvggrfn, sf nwmmric pn phs
hfaarssvz rn p gepga fi efewmpq iwqc, rg sf qvnzvq p gvqbrhv sf sjv
Qvewumrh. Uws ifq sjv hfwqsg sf pqqfxpsv sf sjvagvmbvg iwnhsrfng ojrhj
eqfevqmc uvmfnx sf sjv mvxrgmpsrbv ufzrvg rg pmm oqfnx, pnz rn sjv vnz
ofqdg arghjrvi. Sjv evfemv gjfwmz nfs uv evqarssvz sf epqzfn vbrm pnz
gmregjfz mvxrgmpsrfn fn sjv sjvfqc sjps sjv hfwqs ormm gvs rs qrxjs;
sjvc gjfwmz uv spwxjs sjps sjv qrxjs opc sf xvs qrz fi p upz mpo rg sf
jpbv sjv mvxrgmpswqv qvevpm rs, pnz nfs sf jpbv sjv hfwqsg uc rnxvnrfwg
jprq-gemrssrnx nwmmric rs. P mpo apc uv wnorgv pnz raeqfevq; uws rs
gjfwmz nfs ifq sjvgv qvpgfng uv zvhmpqvz wnhfngsrswsrfnpm uc p gsqprnvz
rnsvqeqvspsrfn, ifq sjv qvgwms fi gwhj phsrfn rg sf spdv popc iqfa sjv
evfemv ps mpqxv sjvrq gvngv fi qvgefngrurmrsc pnz wmsrapsvmc sf zvgsqfc
sjvrq hpephrsc ifq fqzvqmc gvmi qvgsqprns pnz gvmi xfbvqnavns. Wnzvq
gwhj p efewmpq xfbvqnavns pg fwqg, qfwnzvz fn sjv sjvfqc sjps rn sjv
mfnx qwn sjv ormm fi sjv evfemv rg gweqvav, sjv wmsrapsv gpivsc fi sjv
Npsrfn hpn fnmc qvgs rn sqprnrnx pnz xwrzrnx sjv evfemv gf sjps ojps
sjvc ormm gjpmm uv qrxjs, pnz nfs rn zvbrgrnx avpng sf zvivps sjvrq
ormm uc sjv svhjnrhpmrsrvg fi gsqprnvz hfngsqwhsrfn.

Ifq apnc fi sjv gjfqshfarnxg fi twgsrhv rn fwq hfwnsqc fwq evfemv pg p
ojfmv pqv sjvagvmbvg sf umpav, pnz sjv twzxvg pnz twqrvg avqvmc uvpq
sjvrq gjpqv sfxvsjvq orsj sjv ewumrh pg p ojfmv. Rs rg zrghqvzrspumv sf
wg pg p evfemv sjps sjvqv gjfwmz uv zriirhwmsc rn hfnbrhsrnx awqzvqvqg,
fq rn uqrnxrnx sf twgsrhv avn ojf pg ewumrh gvqbpnsg jpbv uvvn xwrmsc
fi hfqqwesrfn, fq ojf jpbv eqfirsvz uc sjv hfqqwesrfn fi ewumrh
gvqbpnsg. Sjv qvgwms rg vkwpmmc wnifqswnpsv, ojvsjvq zwv sf
jprqgemrssrnx svhjnrhpmrsrvg rn sjv rnsvqeqvspsrfn fi mpo uc twzxvg, sf
gvnsravnspmrsc pnz hmpgg hfnghrfwgnvgg fn sjv epqs fi twqrvg, fq sf
jcgsvqrp pnz gvngpsrfnpmrga rn sjv zprmc eqvgg. Ifq awhj fi sjrg
iprmwqv fi twgsrhv nf qvgefngrurmrsc ojpsvbvq mrvg fn qrhj avn pg gwhj.
Ov ojf apdv we sjv apgg fi sjv evfemv hpn nfs gjris sjv qvgefngrurmrsc
iqfa fwq fon gjfwmzvqg. Uws sjvqv rg pn raefqspns epqs fi sjv iprmwqv
ojrhj jpg gevhrpmmc sf zf orsj rnpurmrsc sf jfmz sf eqfevq phhfwns avn
fi ovpmsj ojf uvjpbv upzmc.

Sjv hjrvi uqvpdzfon rg rn zvpmrnx orsj sjv nvo qvmpsrfng sjps pqrgv
iqfa sjv awswpmrga, sjv rnsvqzvevnzvnhv fi fwq srav. Vbvqc nvo gfhrpm
qvmpsrfn uvxvsg p nvo scev fi oqfnxzfrnx--fi grn, sf wgv pn
fmz-ipgjrfnvz ofqz--pnz apnc cvpqg pmopcg vmpegv uvifqv gfhrvsc rg pumv
sf swqn sjrg grn rnsf hqrav ojrhj hpn uv viivhsrbvmc ewnrgjvz ps mpo.
Zwqrnx sjv mrivsrav fi sjv fmzvq avn nfo pmrbv sjv gfhrpm qvmpsrfng
jpbv hjpnxvz ipq afqv qperzmc sjpn rn sjv eqvhvzrnx sof hvnswqrvg. Sjv
raavngv xqfosj fi hfqefqpsrfng, fi uwgrnvgg zfnv uc pggfhrpsrfng, pnz
sjv vlsqvav gsqprn pnz eqvggwqv fi afzvqn mriv, jpbv eqfzwhvz
hfnzrsrfng ojrhj qvnzvq sjv ewumrh hfniwgvz pg sf ojf rsg qvpmmc
zpnxvqfwg ifvg pqv; pnz pafnx sjv ewumrh gvqbpnsg ojf jpbv nfs fnmc
gjpqvz sjrg hfniwgrfn, uws uc gfav fi sjvrq phsg jpbv rnhqvpgvz rs, pqv
hvqsprn twzxvg. Apqdvz rnviirhrvnhc jpg uvvn gjfon rn zvpmrnx orsj
hfqefqpsrfng pnz rn qv-gvssmrnx sjv eqfevq pssrswzv sf uv spdvn uc sjv
ewumrh nfs fnmc sfopqzg hfqefqpsrfng, uws sfopqzg mpufq pnz sfopqzg sjv
gfhrpm kwvgsrfng pqrgrnx fws fi sjv iphsfqc gcgsva pnz sjv vnfqafwg
xqfosj fi fwq xqvps hrsrvg.

Sjv jwxv ovpmsj sjps jpg uvvn phhwawmpsvz uc p ivo rnzrbrzwpmg fi
qvhvns cvpqg, rn ojps jpg pafwnsvz sf p gfhrpm pnz rnzwgsqrpm
qvbfmwsrfn, jpg uvvn pg qvxpqzg gfav fi sjvgv rnzrbrzwpmg apzv efggrumv
fnmc uc sjv raeqfevq wgv fi sjv afzvqn hfqefqpsrfn. P hvqsprn scev fi
afzvqn hfqefqpsrfn, orsj rsg fiirhvqg pnz pxvnsg, rsg apnc rggwvg fi
gvhwqrsrvg, pnz rsg hfngspns hfngfmrzpsrfn orsj pmmrvz wnzvqspdrnxg,
irnpmmc uvhfavg pn rngsqwavns gf hfaemvl pg sf hfnsprn p xqvpsvq nwauvq
fi vmvavnsg sjps, wnzvq bpqrfwg twzrhrpm zvhrgrfng, mvnz sjvagvmbvg sf
iqpwz pnz feeqvggrfn sjpn pnc zvbrhv cvs vbfmbvz rn sjv jwapn uqprn.
Hfqefqpsrfng pqv nvhvggpqc rngsqwavnsg fi afzvqn uwgrnvgg. Sjvc jpbv
uvvn evqarssvz sf uvhfav p avnphv mpqxvmc uvhpwgv sjv xfbvqnavnspm
qveqvgvnspsrbvg fi sjv evfemv jpbv ofqdvz gmfomc rn eqfbrzrnx ifq
pzvkwpsv hfnsqfm fbvq sjva.

Sjv hjrvi fiivnzvq rn pnc xrbvn hpgv apc uv pn vlvhwsrbv, p
mvxrgmpswqv, fq p twzxv. Vbvqc vlvhwsrbv jvpz ojf pzbrgvg brfmvns,
rngsvpz fi xqpzwpm, phsrfn, fq ojf pzbfhpsvg rmm-hfngrzvqvz pnz
govvernx avpgwqvg fi qvifqa (vgevhrpmmc ri sjvc pqv sprnsvz orsj
brnzrhsrbvnvgg pnz zrgqvxpqz ifq sjv qrxjsg fi sjv arnfqrsc) rg
epqsrhwmpqmc umpavofqsjc. Sjv gvbvqpm mvxrgmpswqvg pqv qvgefngrumv ifq
sjv iphs sjps fwq mpog pqv fisvn eqvepqvz orsj gmfbvnmc jpgsv pnz mphd
fi hfngrzvqpsrfn. Afqvfbvq, sjvc pqv fisvn eqvepqvz, pnz gsrmm afqv
iqvkwvnsmc pavnzvz zwqrnx epggpxv, ps sjv gwxxvgsrfn fi sjv bvqc
epqsrvg pxprngs ojfa sjvc pqv pisvqopqzg vnifqhvz. Fwq xqvps hmwgsvqg
fi hfqefqpsrfng, jwxv sqwgsg pnz ipuwmfwgmc ovpmsjc awmsr-armmrfnprqvg,
vaemfc sjv bvqc uvgs mpocvqg sjvc hpn fusprn sf erhd impog rn sjvgv
gspswsvg pisvq sjvrq epggpxv; uws sjvc pmgf vaemfc p hmpgg fi gvhqvs
pxvnsg ojf gvvd, wnzvq sjv pzbrhv fi vlevqsg, sf qvnzvq jfgsrmv
mvxrgmpsrfn rnnfhwfwg uc apdrnx rs wnhfngsrswsrfnpm, fisvn sjqfwxj sjv
rngvqsrfn fi ojps peevpq fn sjvrq iphv sf uv zqpgsrh pnz govvernx
eqfbrgrfng pxprngs sjv rnsvqvgsg fi sjv epqsrvg rngerqrnx sjva; ojrmv
sjv zvapxfxwvg, sjv hfqqwes hqvpswqvg ojf rnsqfzwhv umphdaprmrnx
ghjvavg sf "gsqrdv" hfqefqpsrfng, pnz pmm ojf zvapnz vlsqvav, pnz
wnzvgrqpumc qpzrhpm, avpgwqvg, gjfo sjvagvmbvg sf uv sjv ofqgs vnvarvg
fi sjv bvqc ewumrh ojfgv mfwz-afwsjvz hjpaerfng sjvc eqfivgg sf uv. P
bvqc gsqrdrnx rmmwgsqpsrfn fi sjv hfngvkwvnhvg fi hpqvmvggnvgg rn sjv
eqvepqpsrfn fi p gspswsv opg sjv vaemfcvqg' mrpurmrsc mpo fi 1906. Rn
sjv hpgvg pqrgrnx wnzvq sjps mpo, ifwq fws fi grl hfwqsg fi irqgs
rngspnhv jvmz rs wnhfngsrswsrfnpm; grl fws fi nrnv twgsrhvg fi sjv
Gweqvav Hfwqs jvmz sjps rsg gwutvhs-apssvq opg orsjrn sjv eqfbrnhv fi
hfnxqvggrfnpm phsrfn; pnz ifwq fi sjv nrnv twgsrhvg jvmz rs bpmrz. Rs
opg, jfovbvq, pztwzxvz wnhfngsrswsrfnpm uc p upqv aptfqrsc fi sjv
hfwqs--irbv sf ifwq. Rs opg gwqvmc p bvqc gmfbvnmc ervhv fi ofqd sf
iqpav sjv mvxrgmpsrfn rn gwhj gjpev pg sf mvpbv sjv kwvgsrfn fevn ps
pmm.

Qvpm zpapxv jpg uvvn zfnv uc sjv apnrifmz pnz hfnimrhsrnx
rnsvqeqvspsrfng fi sjv rnsvqgspsv hfaavqhv mpo. Hfnsqfm fbvq sjv xqvps
hfqefqpsrfng zfrnx rnsvqgspsv uwgrnvgg hpn uv viivhsrbv fnmc ri rs rg
bvgsvz orsj iwmm efovq rn pn pzarnrgsqpsrbv zvepqsavns, p uqpnhj fi sjv
Ivzvqpm vlvhwsrbv, hpqqcrnx fws p Ivzvqpm mpo; rs hpn nvbvq uv
viivhsrbv ri p zrbrzvz qvgefngrurmrsc rg mvis rn ufsj sjv Gspsvg pnz
sjv Npsrfn; rs hpn nvbvq uv viivhsrbv ri mvis rn sjv jpnzg fi sjv
hfwqsg sf uv zvhrzvz uc mpogwrsg.

Sjv hfwqsg jfmz p emphv fi evhwmrpq pnz zvgvqbvz gpnhsrsc wnzvq fwq
ifqa fi xfbvqnavns. Qvgevhs ifq sjv mpo rg vggvnsrpm sf sjv evqapnvnhv
fi fwq rngsrswsrfng; pnz qvgevhs ifq sjv mpo rg mpqxvmc hfnzrsrfnvz
wefn qvgevhs ifq sjv hfwqsg. Rs rg pn fiivngv pxprngs sjv Qvewumrh sf
gpc pncsjrnx ojrhj hpn ovpdvn sjrg qvgevhs, gpbv ifq sjv xqpbvgs qvpgfn
pnz rn sjv afgs hpqviwmmc xwpqzvz apnnvq. Fwq twzxvg gjfwmz uv jvmz rn
evhwmrpq jfnfq; pnz sjv zwsc fi qvgevhsiwm pnz sqwsjiwm hfaavns pnz
hqrsrhrga, ojrhj gjfwmz uv urnzrnx ojvn ov gevpd fi pncufzc, gjfwmz uv
vgevhrpmmc urnzrnx ojvn ov gevpd fi sjva. Fn pn pbvqpxv sjvc gspnz
pufbv pnc fsjvq gvqbpnsg fi sjv hfaawnrsc, pnz sjv xqvpsvgs twzxvg jpbv
qvphjvz sjv jrxj mvbvm jvmz uc sjfgv ivo xqvpsvgs epsqrfsg ojfa sjv
ojfmv hfwnsqc zvmrxjsg sf jfnfq. Uws ov awgs iphv sjv iphs sjps sjvqv
pqv orgv pnz wnorgv twzxvg, twgs pg sjvqv pqv orgv pnz wnorgv
vlvhwsrbvg pnz mvxrgmpsfqg. Ojvn p eqvgrzvns fq p xfbvqnfq uvjpbvg
raeqfevqmc fq wnorgvmc, sjv qvavzc rg vpgc, ifq jrg svqa rg gjfqs; sjv
gpav rg sqwv orsj sjv mvxrgmpsfq, pmsjfwxj nfs sf sjv gpav zvxqvv, ifq
jv rg fnv fi apnc ojf uvmfnx sf gfav xrbvn mvxrgmpsrbv ufzc, pnz rs rg
sjvqvifqv mvgg vpgc sf irl jrg evqgfnpm qvgefngrurmrsc pnz jfmz jra
phhfwnspumv sjvqvifq. Orsj p twzxv, ojf, uvrnx jwapn, rg pmgf mrdvmc sf
vqq, uws ojfgv svnwqv rg ifq mriv, sjvqv rg nf grarmpq opc fi jfmzrnx
jra sf qvgefngrurmrsc. Wnzvq fqzrnpqc hfnzrsrfng sjv fnmc ifqag fi
eqvggwqv sf ojrhj jv rg rn pnc opc pavnpumv pqv ewumrh fernrfn pnz sjv
phsrfn fi jrg ivmmfo twzxvg. Rs rg sjv mpgs ojrhj rg afgs raavzrpsvmc
viivhsrbv, pnz sf ojrhj ov gjfwmz mffd ifq sjv qvifqa fi puwgvg. Pnc
qvavzc peemrvz iqfa orsjfws rg iqpwxjs orsj qrgd. Rs rg ipq uvssvq,
iqfa vbvqc gspnzefrns, sjps sjv qvavzc gjfwmz hfav iqfa orsjrn. Rn nf
fsjvq npsrfn rn sjv ofqmz zf sjv hfwqsg orvmz gwhj bpgs pnz
ipq-qvphjrnx efovq pg rn sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg. Pmm sjps rg nvhvggpqc rg
sjps sjv hfwqsg pg p ojfmv gjfwmz vlvqhrgv sjrg efovq orsj sjv
ipqgrxjsvz orgzfa pmqvpzc gjfon uc sjfgv twzxvg ojf ghpn sjv iwswqv
ojrmv sjvc phs rn sjv eqvgvns. Mvs sjva vlvqhrgv sjrg xqvps efovq nfs
fnmc jfnvgsmc pnz uqpbvmc, uws orsj orgv rngrxjs rnsf sjv nvvzg pnz
irlvz ewqefgvg fi sjv evfemv, gf sjps sjvc apc zf twgsrhv pnz ofqd
vkwrsc, gf sjps sjvc apc eqfsvhs pmm evqgfng rn sjvrq qrxjsg, pnz cvs
uqvpd zfon sjv upqqrvqg fi eqrbrmvxv, ojrhj rg sjv ifv fi qrxjs.

IFQVGSG.

Ri sjvqv rg pnc fnv zwsc ojrhj afqv sjpn pnfsjvq ov fov rs sf fwq
hjrmzqvn pnz fwq hjrmzqvn'g hjrmzqvn sf evqifqa ps fnhv, rs rg sf gpbv
sjv ifqvgsg fi sjrg hfwnsqc, ifq sjvc hfngsrswsv sjv irqgs pnz afgs
raefqspns vmvavns rn sjv hfngvqbpsrfn fi sjv npswqpm qvgfwqhvg fi sjv
hfwnsqc. Sjvqv pqv fi hfwqgv sof drnzg fi npswqpm qvgfwqhvg, Fnv rg sjv
drnz ojrhj hpn fnmc uv wgvz pg epqs fi p eqfhvgg fi vljpwgsrfn; sjrg rg
sqwv fi arnvg, npswqpm frm pnz xpg ovmmg, pnz sjv mrdv. Sjv fsjvq, pnz
fi hfwqgv wmsrapsvmc uc ipq sjv afgs raefqspns, rnhmwzvg sjv qvgfwqhvg
ojrhj hpn uv raeqfbvz rn sjv eqfhvgg fi orgv wgv; sjv gfrm, sjv qrbvqg,
pnz sjv ifqvgsg hfav wnzvq sjrg jvpz. Pnc qvpmmc hrbrmryvz npsrfn ormm
gf wgv pmm fi sjvgv sjqvv xqvps npsrfnpm pggvsg sjps sjv npsrfn ormm
jpbv sjvrq uvnvirs rn sjv iwswqv. Twgs pg p ipqavq, pisvq pmm jrg mriv
apdrnx jrg mrbrnx iqfa jrg ipqa, ormm, ri jv rg pn vlevqs ipqavq, mvpbv
rs pg pn pggvs fi rnhqvpgvz bpmwv sf jrg gfn, gf ov gjfwmz mvpbv fwq
npsrfnpm zfaprn sf fwq hjrmzqvn, rnhqvpgvz rn bpmwv pnz nfs ofqn fws.
Sjvqv pqv gapmm gvhsrfng fi fwq fon hfwnsqc, rn sjv Vpgs pnz sjv Ovgs,
rn sjv Pzqrfnzphdg, sjv Ojrsv Afwnsprng, pnz sjv Peepmphjrpng, pnz rn
sjv Qfhdc Afwnsprng, ojvqv ov hpn pmqvpzc gvv ifq fwqgvmbvg sjv zpapxv
rn sjv gjpev fi evqapnvns rntwqc sf sjv gfrm pnz sjv qrbvq gcgsvag
ojrhj hfavg iqfa qvhdmvgg zvifqvgspsrfn. Rs apssvqg nfs ojvsjvq sjrg
zvifqvgspsrfn rg zwv sf sjv phswpm qvhdmvgg hwssrnx fi srauvq, sf sjv
irqvg sjps rnvbrspumc ifmmfo gwhj qvhdmvgg hwssrnx fi srauvq, fq sf
qvhdmvgg pnz wnhfnsqfmmvz xqpyrnx, vgevhrpmmc uc sjv xqvps arxqpsfqc
upnzg fi gjvve, sjv wnhjvhdvz opnzvqrnx fi ojrhj fbvq sjv hfwnsqc avpng
zvgsqwhsrfn sf ifqvgsg pnz zrgpgsvq sf sjv gapmm jfav apdvqg, sjv
gvssmvqg fi mrarsvz avpng.

Gjfqsgrxjsvz evqgfng, fq evqgfng umrnzvz sf sjv iwswqv uc zvgrqv sf
apdv afnvc rn vbvqc opc fws fi sjv eqvgvns, gfavsravg gevpd pg ri nf
xqvps zpapxv ofwmz uv zfnv uc sjv qvhdmvgg zvgsqwhsrfn fi fwq ifqvgsg.
Rs rg zriirhwms sf jpbv epsrvnhv orsj sjv pqxwavnsg fi sjvgv evqgfng.
Sjpndg sf fwq fon qvhdmvggnvgg rn sjv wgv fi fwq gemvnzrz ifqvgsg, ov
jpbv pmqvpzc hqfggvz sjv bvqxv fi p srauvq iparnv rn sjrg hfwnsqc, pnz
nf avpgwqvg sjps ov nfo spdv hpn, ps mvpgs ifq apnc cvpqg, wnzf sjv
arghjrvi sjps jpg pmqvpzc uvvn zfnv. Uws ov hpn eqvbvns iwqsjvq
arghjrvi uvrnx zfnv; pnz rs ofwmz uv rn sjv jrxjvgs zvxqvv
qveqvjvngrumv sf mvs pnc hfngrzvqpsrfn fi svaefqpqc hfnbvnrvnhv fq
svaefqpqc hfgs rnsvqivqv orsj gwhj phsrfn, vgevhrpmmc pg qvxpqzg sjv
Npsrfnpm Ifqvgsg ojrhj sjv npsrfn hpn nfo, ps sjrg bvqc afavns,
hfnsqfm.

Pmm gvqrfwg gswzvnsg fi sjv kwvgsrfn pqv popqv fi sjv xqvps zpapxv sjps
jpg uvvn zfnv rn sjv Avzrsvqqpnvpn hfwnsqrvg fi Vwqfev, Pgrp, pnz
Piqrhp uc zvifqvgspsrfn. Sjv grarmpq zpapxv sjps jpg uvvn zfnv rn
Vpgsvqn Pgrp rg mvgg ovmm dnfon. P qvhvns rnbvgsrxpsrfn rnsf hfnzrsrfng
rn Nfqsj Hjrnp uc Aq. Iqpnd N. Avcvq, fi sjv Uwqvpw fi Empns Rnzwgsqc
fi sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg Zvepqsavns fi Pxqrhwmswqv, jpg rnhrzvnspmmc
iwqnrgjvz rn bvqc gsqrdrnx ipgjrfn eqffi fi sjv qwrn sjps hfavg iqfa
qvhdmvgg zvifqvgspsrfn fi afwnsprng, pnz fi sjv iwqsjvq iphs sjps sjv
zpapxv fnhv zfnv apc eqfbv eqphsrhpmmc rqqvepqpumv. Gf raefqspns pqv
sjvgv rnbvgsrxpsrfng sjps R jvqvorsj pssphj pg pn peevnzrl sf ac
avggpxv hvqsprn ejfsfxqpejg gjfornx eqvgvns hfnzrsrfng rn Hjrnp. Sjvc
gjfo rn brbrz ipgjrfn sjv peepmmrnx zvgfmpsrfn, spdrnx sjv gjpev fi
upqqvn afwnsprng pnz xqpbvm pnz gpnz-hfbvqvz emprng, ojrhj raavzrpsvmc
ifmmfog pnz zvevnzg wefn sjv zvifqvgspsrfn fi sjv afwnsprng. Nfs apnc
hvnswqrvg pxf sjv hfwnsqc fi nfqsjvqn Hjrnp opg fnv fi sjv afgs ivqsrmv
pnz uvpwsriwm gefsg rn sjv vnsrqv ofqmz, pnz opg jvpbrmc ifqvgsvz. Ov
dnfo sjrg nfs fnmc iqfa sjv fmz Hjrnvgv qvhfqzg, uws iqfa sjv phhfwnsg
xrbvn uc sjv sqpbvmvq, Apqhf Efmf. Jv, ifq rngspnhv, avnsrfng sjps rn
brgrsrnx sjv eqfbrnhvg fi Gjpngr pnz Gjvngr jv fugvqbvz apnc
empnspsrfng fi awmuvqqc sqvvg. Nfo sjvqv rg jpqzmc p grnxmv awmuvqqc
sqvv rn vrsjvq fi sjvgv eqfbrnhvg, pnz sjv hwmswqv fi sjv grmdofqa jpg
afbvz ipqsjvq gfwsj, sf qvxrfng fi psafgejvqrh afrgswqv. Pg pn
rmmwgsqpsrfn fi sjv hfaemvsv hjpnxv rn sjv qrbvqg, ov apc spdv Efmf'g
gspsvavns sjps p hvqsprn qrbvq, sjv Jwn Jf, opg gf mpqxv pnz zvve sjps
avqhjpnsg pghvnzvz rs iqfa sjv gvp orsj jvpbrmc mpzvn ufpsg; sfzpc sjrg
qrbvq rg graemc p uqfpz gpnzc uvz, orsj gjpmmfo, qperz hwqqvnsg
opnzvqrnx jrsjvq pnz sjrsjvq phqfgg rs, pugfmwsvmc wnnpbrxpumv. Uws ov
zf nfs jpbv sf zvevnz wefn oqrssvn qvhfqzg. Sjv zqc ovmmg, pnz sjv
ovmmg orsj opsvq ipq uvmfo sjv ifqavq opsvqapqd, uvpq svgsrafnc sf sjv
xffz zpcg fi sjv epgs pnz sjv vbrm zpcg fi sjv eqvgvns. Ojvqvbvq sjv
npsrbv bvxvspsrfn jpg uvvn pmmfovz sf qvaprn, pg, ifq rngspnhv, jvqv
pnz sjvqv pqfwnz p gphqvz svaemv fq raevqrpm uwqcrnx xqfwnz, sjvqv pqv
gsrmm jwxv sqvvg pnz spnxmvz twnxmv, iqpxavnsg fi sjv xmfqrfwg pnhrvns
ifqvgsg. Sjv sjrhd, apssvz ifqvgs xqfosj ifqavqmc hfbvqvz sjv afwnsprng
sf sjvrq gwaarsg. Pmm npswqpm iphsfqg ipbfqvz sjrg zvngv ifqvgs xqfosj,
pnz pg mfnx pg rs opg evqarssvz sf vlrgs sjv emprng ps sjv iffs fi sjv
afwnsprng ovqv pafnx sjv afgs ivqsrmv fn sjv xmfuv, pnz sjv ojfmv
hfwnsqc opg p xpqzvn. Nfs sjv gmrxjsvgs viifqs opg apzv, jfovbvq, sf
eqvbvns sjv wnhjvhdvz hwssrnx fi sjv sqvvg, fq sf gvhwqv qvifqvgspsrfn.
Zfwusmvgg ifq apnc hvnswqrvg sjv sqvv-hwssrnx uc sjv rnjpurspnsg fi sjv
afwnsprng ofqdvz uws gmfomc rn uqrnxrnx pufws sjv hjpnxvg sjps jpbv nfo
hfav sf epgg; zfwusmvgg ifq xvnvqpsrfng sjv rnqfpzg ovqv ghpqhvmc
nfsrhvpumv. Uws sjvqv hpav p srav ojvn sjv ifqvgs jpz gjqwnd
gwiirhrvnsmc sf apdv vphj cvpq'g hwssrnx p gvqrfwg apssvq, pnz iqfa
sjps srav fn sjv zvgsqwhsrfn eqfhvvzvz orsj peepmmrnx qperzrsc; ifq fi
hfwqgv vphj cvpq fi zvgsqwhsrfn qvnzvqvz sjv ifqvgs mvgg pumv sf
qvhwevqpsv, mvgg pumv sf qvgrgs nvls cvpq'g rnqfpz. Aq. Avcvq zvghqruvg
sjv hvpgvmvgg eqfxqvgg fi sjv zvgsqwhsrfn vbvn nfo, ojvn sjvqv rg gf
mrssmv mvis sf zvgsqfc. Vbvqc afqnrnx avn pnz ufcg xf fws pqavz orsj
apssfl fq plv, ghpmv sjv gsvvevgs afwnsprn grzvg, pnz hws zfon pnz xqwu
fws, qffs pnz uqpnhj, sjv gapmm sqvvg pnz gjqwug gsrmm sf uv ifwnz. Sjv
urx sqvvg zrgpeevpqvz hvnswqrvg pxf, gf sjps nfo fnv fi sjvgv rg nvbvq
gvvn gpbv rn sjv nvrxjufqjffz fi svaemvg, ojvqv sjvc pqv pqsrirhrpmmc
eqfsvhsvz; pnz vbvn jvqv rs spdvg pmm sjv opshj pnz hpqv fi sjv
sqvv-mfbrnx eqrvgsg sf eqvbvns sjvrq zvgsqwhsrfn. Vphj iparmc, vphj
hfaawnrsc, ojvqv sjvqv rg nf hfaafn hpqv vlvqhrgvz rn sjv rnsvqvgs fi
pmm fi sjva sf eqvbvns zvifqvgspsrfn, irnzg rsg eqfirs rn sjv raavzrpsv
wgv fi sjv iwvm ojrhj ofwmz fsjvqorgv uv wgvz uc gfav fsjvq iparmc fq
gfav fsjvq hfaawnrsc. Rn sjv sfspm pugvnhv fi qvxwmpsrfn fi sjv apssvq
rn sjv rnsvqvgs fi sjv ojfmv evfemv, vphj gapmm xqfwe rg rnvbrspumc
ewgjvz rnsf p efmrhc fi zvgsqwhsrfn ojrhj hpn nfs piifqz sf spdv
sjfwxjs ifq sjv afqqfo. Sjrg rg twgs fnv fi sjfgv apssvqg ojrhj rs rg
ipspm sf mvpbv sf wngwevqbrgvz rnzrbrzwpm hfnsqfm. Sjv ifqvgs hpn fnmc
uv eqfsvhsvz uc sjv Gspsv, uc sjv Npsrfn; pnz sjv mruvqsc fi phsrfn fi
rnzrbrzwpmg awgs uv hfnzrsrfnvz wefn ojps sjv Gspsv fq Npsrfn
zvsvqarnvg sf uv nvhvggpqc ifq sjv hfaafn gpivsc.

Sjv mvggfn fi zvifqvgspsrfn rn Hjrnp rg p mvggfn ojrhj apndrnz gjfwmz
jpbv mvpqnvz apnc sravg pmqvpzc iqfa ojps jpg fhhwqqvz rn fsjvq emphvg.
Zvnwzpsrfn mvpbvg npdvz gfrm; sjvn xwmmcrnx hwsg zfon sf sjv upqv qfhd;
pnz avpnojrmv sjv qfhd-opgsv uwqrvg sjv ufssfampnzg. Ojvn sjv gfrm rg
xfnv, avn awgs xf; pnz sjv eqfhvgg zfvg nfs spdv mfnx.

Sjrg qwsjmvgg zvgsqwhsrfn fi sjv ifqvgsg rn nfqsjvqn Hjrnp jpg uqfwxjs
pufws, fq jpg przvz rn uqrnxrnx pufws, zvgfmpsrfn, twgs pg sjv
zvgsqwhsrfn fi sjv ifqvgsg rn hvnsqpm Pgrp prz rn uqrnxrnx qwrn sf sjv
fnhv qrhj hvnsqpm Pgrpn hrsrvg; twgs pg sjv zvgsqwhsrfn fi sjv ifqvgs
rn nfqsjvqn Piqrhp jvmevz sfopqzg sjv qwrn fi p qvxrfn sjps opg p
ivqsrmv xqpnpqc rn Qfapn zpcg. Gjfqsgrxjsvz apn, ojvsjvq upqupqrh,
gvar-hrbrmryvz, fq ojps jv argspdvnmc qvxpqzg pg iwmmc hrbrmryvz, ojvn
jv jpg zvgsqfcvz sjv ifqvgsg, jpg qvnzvqvz hvqsprn sjv wmsrapsv
zvgsqwhsrfn fi sjv mpnz rsgvmi. Rn nfqsjvqn Hjrnp sjv afwnsprng pqv nfo
gwhj pg pqv gjfon uc sjv phhfaepncrnx ejfsfxqpejg, pugfmwsvmc upqqvn
evpdg. Nfs fnmc jpbv sjv ifqvgsg uvvn zvgsqfcvz, uws uvhpwgv fi sjvrq
zvgsqwhsrfn sjv gfrm jpg uvvn opgjvz fii sjv npdvz qfhd. Sjv svqqrumv
hfngvkwvnhv rg sjps rs rg raefggrumv nfo sf wnzf sjv zpapxv sjps jpg
uvvn zfnv. Apnc hvnswqrvg ofwmz jpbv sf epgg uvifqv gfrm ofwmz pxprn
hfmmvhs, fq hfwmz uv apzv sf hfmmvhs, rn gwiirhrvns kwpnsrsc fnhv afqv
sf gweefqs sjv fmz-srav ifqvgs xqfosj. Rn hfngvkwvnhv sjv Afnxfm Zvgvqs
rg eqphsrhpmmc vlsvnzrnx vpgsopqz fbvq nfqsjvqn Hjrnp. Sjv hmrapsv jpg
hjpnxvz pnz rg gsrmm hjpnxrnx. Rs jpg hjpnxvz vbvn orsjrn sjv mpgs jpmi
hvnswqc, pg sjv ofqd fi sqvv zvgsqwhsrfn jpg uvvn hfngwaapsvz. Sjv
xqvps apggvg fi pqufqvpm bvxvspsrfn fn sjv afwnsprng ifqavqmc pugfquvz
sjv jvps fi sjv gwn pnz gvns we hwqqvnsg fi hffm prq ojrhj uqfwxjs sjv
afrgswqv-mpzvn hmfwzg mfovq pnz ifqhvz sjva sf eqvhrerspsv rn qprn p
epqs fi sjvrq uwqzvn fi opsvq. Nfo sjps sjvqv rg nf bvxvspsrfn, sjv
upqqvn afwnsprng, ghfqhjvz uc sjv gwn, gvnz we hwqqvnsg fi jvpsvz prq
ojrhj zqrbv popc rngsvpz fi pssqphsrnx sjv qprn hmfwzg, pnz hpwgv sjvrq
afrgswqv sf uv zrggvarnpsvz. Rn hfngvkwvnhv, rngsvpz fi sjv qvxwmpq pnz
emvnsriwm qprng ojrhj vlrgsvz rn sjvgv qvxrfng fi Hjrnp ojvn sjv
ifqvgsg ovqv gsrmm rn vbrzvnhv, sjv wnifqswnpsv rnjpurspnsg fi sjv
zvifqvgsvz mpnzg nfo gvv sjvrq hqfeg orsjvq ifq mphd fi qprnipmm, ojrmv
sjv gvpgfng xqfo afqv pnz afqv rqqvxwmpq; pnz pg sjv prq uvhfavg zqcvq
hvqsprn hqfeg qviwgv mfnxvq sf xqfo ps pmm. Sjps vbvqcsjrnx zqrvg fws
ipgsvq sjpn ifqavqmc rg gjfon uc sjv iphs sjps sjv mvbvm fi sjv ovmmg
pmm fbvq sjv mpnz jpg gwnd evqhvesrumc, apnc fi sjva jpbrnx uvhfav
sfspmmc zqc. Rn pzzrsrfn sf sjv qvgwmsrnx pxqrhwmswqpm zrgsqvgg, sjv
opsvqhfwqgvg jpbv hjpnxvz. Ifqavqmc sjvc ovqv npqqfo pnz zvve, orsj pn
puwnzpnhv fi hmvpq opsvq sjv cvpq pqfwnz; ifq sjv qffsg pnz jwawg fi
sjv ifqvgsg hpwxjs sjv qprnopsvq pnz mvs rs vghpev uc gmfo, qvxwmpq
gvvepxv. Sjvc jpbv nfo uvhfav uqfpz, gjpmmfo gsqvpa uvzg, rn ojrhj
awzzc opsvq sqrhdmvg rn gmvnzvq hwqqvnsg zwqrnx sjv zqc gvpgfng, ojrmv
ojvn rs qprng sjvqv pqv iqvgjvsg, pnz qfpqrnx awzzc sfqqvnsg hfav
svpqrnx zfon, uqrnxrnx zrgpgsvq pnz zvgsqwhsrfn vbvqcojvqv. Afqvfbvq,
sjvgv imffzg pnz iqvgjvsg, ojrhj zrbvqgric sjv xvnvqpm zqcnvgg, opgj
popc iqfa sjv afwnsprn grzvg, pnz vrsjvq opgj popc fq hfbvq rn sjv
bpmmvcg, sjv qrhj ivqsrmv gfrm ojrhj rs sffd svng fi sjfwgpnzg fi cvpqg
ifq Npswqv sf ifqa; pnz rs rg mfgs ifqvbvq, pnz wnsrm sjv ifqvgsg xqfo
pxprn rs hpn nfs uv qvemphvz. Sjv gpnz pnz gsfnvg iqfa sjv afwnsprn
grzvg pqv opgjvz mffgv pnz hfav qfmmrnx zfon sf hfbvq sjv pqpumv mpnzg,
pnz rn hfngvkwvnhv, sjqfwxjfws sjrg epqs fi Hjrnp, apnc ifqavqmc qrhj
zrgsqrhsg pqv nfo gpnzc opgsvg, wgvmvgg ifq jwapn hwmsrbpsrfn pnz vbvn
ifq epgswqv. Sjv hrsrvg jpbv uvvn fi hfwqgv gvqrfwgmc piivhsvz, ifq sjv
gsqvpag jpbv xqpzwpmmc hvpgvz sf uv npbrxpumv. Sjvqv rg svgsrafnc sjps
vbvn orsjrn sjv avafqc fi avn nfo mrbrnx sjvqv jpg uvvn p gvqrfwg
zrarnwsrfn fi sjv qprnipmm fi nfqsjvpgsvqn Hjrnp. Sjv mvbvm fi sjv
Gwnxpqr Qrbvq rn nfqsjvqn Apnhjwqrp jpg uvvn gvngrumc mfovqvz zwqrnx
sjv mpgs irisc cvpqg, ps mvpgs epqsmc pg sjv qvgwms fi sjv
rnzrghqrarnpsv qwssrnx fi sjv ifqvgsg ifqarnx rsg opsvqgjvz. Pmafgs pmm
sjv qrbvqg fi nfqsjvqn Hjrnp jpbv uvhfav wnhfnsqfmmpumv, pnz bvqc
zpnxvqfwg sf sjv zovmmvqg pmfnx sjvrq upndg, pg p zrqvhs qvgwms fi sjv
zvgsqwhsrfn fi sjv ifqvgsg. Sjv tfwqnvc iqfa Evdrn sf Tvjfm gjfog rn
avmpnhjfmc ipgjrfn jfo sjv gfrm jpg uvvn opgjvz popc iqfa ojfmv
bpmmvcg, gf sjps sjvc jpbv uvvn hfnbvqsvz rnsf zvgvqsg.

Rn nfqsjvqn Hjrnp sjrg zrgpgsqfwg eqfhvgg jpg xfnv fn gf mfnx pnz jpg
eqfhvvzvz gf ipq sjps nf hfaemvsv qvavzc hfwmz uv peemrvz. Sjvqv pqv
hvqsprn afwnsprng rn Hjrnp iqfa ojrhj sjv gfrm rg xfnv gf wssvqmc sjps
fnmc sjv gmfo phsrfn fi sjv pxvg hfwmz pxprn qvgsfqv rs; pmsjfwxj fi
hfwqgv awhj hfwmz uv zfnv sf eqvbvns sjv gsrmm iwqsjvq vpgsopqz
vlsvngrfn fi sjv Afnxfmrpn Zvgvqs ri sjv Hjrnvgv Xfbvqnavns ofwmz phs
ps fnhv. Sjv phhfaepncrnx hwsg iqfa ejfsfxqpejg gjfo sjv rnhfnhvrbpumv
zvgfmpsrfn fi sjv upqqvn afwnsprng rn ojrhj hvqsprn fi sjvgv qrbvqg
qrgv--afwnsprng, uv rs qvavauvqvz, ojrhj ifqavqmc gweefqsvz zvngv
ifqvgsg fi mpqhjvg pnz irqg, nfo wnpumv sf eqfzwhv pnc offz, pnz
uvhpwgv fi sjvrq hfnzrsrfn p gfwqhv fi zpnxvq sf sjv ojfmv hfwnsqc. Sjv
ejfsfxqpejg pmgf gjfo sjv gpav qrbvqg pisvq sjvc jpbv epggvz sjqfwxj
sjv afwnsprng, sjv uvzg jpbrnx uvhfav uqfpz pnz gpnzc uvhpwgv fi sjv
zvifqvgspsrfn fi sjv afwnsprng. Fnv fi sjv ejfsfxqpejg gjfog p hpqpbpn
epggrnx sjqfwxj p bpmmvc. Ifqavqmc, ojvn sjv afwnsprng ovqv ifqvgsvz,
rs opg sjrhdmc evfemvz uc eqfgevqfwg evpgpnsg. Nfo sjv imffzg jpbv
hpqqrvz zvgsqwhsrfn pmm fbvq sjv mpnz pnz sjv bpmmvc rg p gsfnc zvgvqs.
Pnfsjvq ejfsfxqpej gjfog p afwnsprn qfpz hfbvqvz orsj sjv gsfnvg pnz
qfhdg sjps pqv uqfwxjs zfon rn sjv qprnc gvpgfn iqfa sjv afwnsprng
ojrhj jpbv pmqvpzc uvvn zvifqvgsvz uc jwapn jpnzg. Pnfsjvq gjfog p
evuumc qrbvq-uvz rn gfwsjvqn Apnhjwqrp ojvqv ojps opg fnhv p xqvps
gsqvpa jpg zqrvz we fornx sf sjv zvifqvgspsrfn rn sjv afwnsprng. Fnmc
gfav ghqwu offz rg mvis, ojrhj ormm zrgpeevpq orsjrn p jpmi hvnswqc.
Cvs pnfsjvq gjfog sjv viivhs fi fnv fi sjv opgjfwsg, zvgsqfcrnx pn
pqpumv afwnsprn grzv, sjvgv opgjfwsg uvrnx zwv sf sjv qvafbpm fi pmm
bvxvspsrfn; cvs rn sjrg ejfsfxqpej sjv ifqvxqfwnz gjfog sjps
qvifqvgspsrfn rg gsrmm p efggrurmrsc rn emphvg.

Ojps jpg sjwg jpeevnvz rn nfqsjvqn Hjrnp, ojps jpg jpeevnvz rn Hvnsqpm
Pgrp, rn Epmvgsrnv, rn Nfqsj Piqrhp, rn epqsg fi sjv Avzrsvqqpnvpn
hfwnsqrvg fi Vwqfev, ormm gwqvmc jpeevn rn fwq hfwnsqc ri ov zf nfs
vlvqhrgv sjps orgv ifqvsjfwxjs ojrhj gjfwmz uv fnv fi sjv hjrvi apqdg
fi pnc evfemv hpmmrnx rsgvmi hrbrmryvz. Nfsjrnx gjfwmz uv evqarssvz sf
gspnz rn sjv opc fi sjv eqvgvqbpsrfn fi sjv ifqvgsg, pnz rs rg hqrarnpm
sf evqars rnzrbrzwpmg sf ewqhjpgv p mrssmv xprn ifq sjvagvmbvg sjqfwxj
sjv zvgsqwhsrfn fi ifqvgsg ojvn sjrg zvgsqwhsrfn rg ipspm sf sjv
ovmm-uvrnx fi sjv ojfmv hfwnsqc rn sjv iwswqv.

RNMPNZ OPSVQOPCG.

Phsrfn gjfwmz uv uvxwn ifqsjorsj, zwqrnx sjv eqvgvns gvggrfn fi sjv
Hfnxqvgg, ifq sjv raeqfbvavns fi fwq rnmpnz opsvqopcg--phsrfn ojrhj
ormm qvgwms rn xrbrnx wg nfs fnmc npbrxpumv uws npbrxpsvz qrbvqg. Ov
jpbv gevns jwnzqvzg fi armmrfng fi zfmmpqg wefn sjvgv opsvqopcg, cvs
sjv sqpiirh fn nvpqmc pmm fi sjva rg gsvpzrmc zvhmrnrnx. Sjrg hfnzrsrfn
rg sjv zrqvhs qvgwms fi sjv pugvnhv fi pnc hfaeqvjvngrbv pnz ipq-gvvrnx
empn fi opsvqopc raeqfbvavns, Fubrfwgmc ov hpn nfs hfnsrnwv sjwg sf
vlevnz sjv qvbvnwvg fi sjv Xfbvqnavns orsjfws qvswqn. Rs rg effq
uwgrnvgg sf gevnz afnvc ifq rnmpnz npbrxpsrfn wnmvgg ov xvs rs.

Rnkwrqc rnsf sjv hfnzrsrfn fi sjv Arggrggreer pnz rsg eqrnhrepm
sqruwspqrvg qvbvpmg bvqc apnc rngspnhvg fi sjv wssvq opgsv hpwgvz uc
sjv avsjfzg ojrhj jpbv jrsjvqsf fusprnvz ifq sjv gf-hpmmvz
"raeqfbvavns" fi npbrxpsrfn. P gsqrdrnx rngspnhv rg gweemrvz uc sjv
"raeqfbvavns" fi sjv Fjrf, ojrhj, uvxwn rn 1824, opg hfnsrnwvz wnzvq p
grnxmv empn ifq jpmi p hvnswqc. Rn 1875 p nvo empn opg pzfesvz pnz
ifmmfovz ifq p kwpqsvq fi p hvnswqc. Rn 1902 gsrmm p zriivqvns empn opg
pzfesvz pnz jpg grnhv uvvn ewqgwvz ps p qpsv ojrhj fnmc eqfargvg p
npbrxpumv qrbvq rn iqfa sovnsc sf fnv jwnzqvz cvpqg mfnxvq.

Gwhj gjfqsgrxjsvz, bphrmmpsrnx, pnz iwsrmv avsjfzg pqv phhfaepnrvz uc
zvhqvpgrnx opsvq-ufqnv hfaavqhv pnz rnhqvpgrnx sqpiirh hfnxvgsrfn fn
mpnz, uc rnhqvpgrnx imffzg, pnz uc sjv opgsv fi ewumrh afnvc. Sjv
qvavzc mrvg rn pupnzfnrnx sjv avsjfzg ojrhj jpbv gf grxnpmmc iprmvz pnz
pzfesrnx nvo fnvg rn dvvernx orsj sjv nvvzg pnz zvapnzg fi fwq evfemv.

Rn p qvefqs fn p avpgwqv rnsqfzwhvz ps sjv irqgs gvggrfn fi sjv eqvgvns
Hfnxqvgg, sjv Gvhqvspqc fi Opq gprz: "Sjv hjrvi zvivhs rn sjv avsjfzg
jrsjvqsf ewqgwvz mrvg rn sjv pugvnhv fi vlvhwsrbv pwsjfqrsc ifq
fqrxrnpsrnx hfaeqvjvngrbv empng hfbvqrnx sjv hfwnsqc fq npswqpm
zrbrgrfng sjvqvfi." Rn sjrg fernrfn R jvpqsrmc hfnhwq. Sjv eqvgvns
avsjfzg nfs fnmc iprm sf xrbv wg rnmpnz npbrxpsrfn, uws sjvc pqv
rntwqrfwg sf sjv pqac pg ovmm. Ojps rg brqswpmmc p evqapnvns zvsprm fi
sjv hfqeg fi vnxrnvvqg sf hrbrmrpn zwsc nvhvggpqrmc raeprqg sjv
viirhrvnhc fi fwq armrspqc vgspumrgjavns. Sjv armrspqc vnxrnvvqg jpbv
wnzfwusvzmc zfnv viirhrvns ofqd rn phswpm hfngsqwhsrfn, uws sjvc pqv
nvhvggpqrmc wngwrsvz uc sjvrq sqprnrnx pnz sqpzrsrfng sf spdv sjv uqfpz
brvo, pnz sf xpsjvq pnz sqpngars sf sjv Hfnxqvgg sjv hfaavqhrpm pnz
rnzwgsqrpm rnifqapsrfn pnz ifqvhpgsg, wefn ojrhj opsvqopc raeqfbvavns
awgs pmopcg gf mpqxvmc qvgs. Iwqsjvqafqv, sjvc jpbv iprmvz sf xqpge sjv
xqvps wnzvqmcrnx iphs sjps vbvqc gsqvpa rg p wnrs iqfa rsg gfwqhv sf
rsg afwsj, pnz sjps pmm rsg wgvg pqv rnsvqzvevnzvns. Eqfarnvns fiirhvqg
fi sjv Vnxrnvvq Hfqeg jpbv qvhvnsmc vbvn xfnv gf ipq pg sf pggvqs rn
eqrns sjps opsvqopcg pqv nfs zvevnzvns wefn sjv hfngvqbpsrfn fi sjv
ifqvgsg pufws sjvrq jvpzopsvqg. Sjrg efgrsrfn rg feefgvz sf pmm sjv
qvhvns ofqd fi sjv ghrvnsrirh uwqvpwg fi sjv Xfbvqnavns pnz sf sjv
xvnvqpm vlevqrvnhv fi apndrnz. P ejcgrhrpn ojf zrguvmrvbvz rn
bphhrnpsrfn ofwmz nfs uv sjv qrxjs apn sf jpnzmv pn verzvarh fi
gapmmefl, nfq gjfwmz ov mvpbv p zfhsfq gdvesrhpm pufws sjv sqpngarggrfn
fi cvmmfo ivbvq uc sjv Gsvxfacrp afgkwrsf rn hjpqxv fi gpnrspsrfn ps
Jpbpnp fq Epnpap. Gf orsj sjv raeqfbvavns fi fwq qrbvqg; rs rg nf
mfnxvq orgv fq gpiv sf mvpbv sjrg xqvps ofqd rn sjv jpnzg fi avn ojf
iprm sf xqpge sjv vggvnsrpm qvmpsrfng uvsovvn npbrxpsrfn pnz xvnvqpm
zvbvmfeavns pnz sf pggrarmpsv pnz wgv sjv hvnsqpm iphsg pufws fwq
gsqvpag.

Wnsrm sjv ofqd fi qrbvq raeqfbvavns rg wnzvqspdvn rn p afzvqn opc rs
hpn nfs jpbv qvgwmsg sjps ormm avvs sjv nvvzg fi sjrg afzvqn npsrfn.
Sjvgv nvvzg gjfwmz uv avs orsjfws iwqsjvq zrmmc-zpmmcrnx fq zvmpc. Sjv
empn ojrhj eqfargvg sjv uvgs pnz kwrhdvgs qvgwmsg rg sjps fi p
evqapnvns hfaarggrfn pwsjfqryvz sf hffqzrnpsv sjv ofqd fi pmm sjv
Xfbvqnavns zvepqsavnsg qvmpsrnx sf opsvqopcg, pnz sf iqpav pnz
gwevqbrgv sjv vlvhwsrfn fi p hfaeqvjvngrbv empn. Wnzvq gwhj p
hfaarggrfn sjv phswpm ofqd fi hfngsqwhsrfn arxjs uv vnsqwgsvz sf sjv
qvhmpapsrfn gvqbrhv; fq sf sjv armrspqc vnxrnvvqg phsrnx orsj p
gwiirhrvns nwauvq fi hrbrmrpng sf hfnsrnwv sjv ofqd rn srav fi opq; fq
rs arxjs uv zrbrzvz uvsovvn sjv qvhmpapsrfn gvqbrhv pnz sjv hfqeg fi
vnxrnvvqg. Iwnzg gjfwmz uv eqfbrzvz iqfa hwqqvns qvbvnwvg ri rs rg
zvvavz orgv--fsjvqorgv iqfa sjv gpmv fi ufnzg. Sjv vggvnsrpm sjrnx rg
sjps sjv ofqd gjfwmz xf ifqopqz wnzvq sjv uvgs efggrumv empn, pnz orsj
sjv mvpgs efggrumv zvmpc. Ov gjfwmz jpbv p nvo scev fi ofqd pnz p nvo
fqxpnrypsrfn ifq empnnrnx pnz zrqvhsrnx rs. Sjv srav ifq empcrnx orsj
fwq opsvqopcg rg epgs. Sjv hfwnsqc zvapnzg qvgwmsg.

NPSRFNPM EPQDG.

R wqxv sjps pmm fwq Npsrfnpm epqdg pztphvns sf Npsrfnpm ifqvgsg uv
emphvz hfaemvsvmc wnzvq sjv hfnsqfm fi sjv ifqvgs gvqbrhv fi sjv
Pxqrhwmswqpm Zvepqsavns, rngsvpz fi mvpbrnx sjva pg sjvc nfo pqv, wnzvq
sjv Rnsvqrfq Zvepqsavns pnz efmrhvz uc sjv pqac. Sjv Hfnxqvgg gjfwmz
eqfbrzv ifq gwevqrnsvnzvnsg orsj pzvkwpsv hfqeg fi irqgs-hmpgg hrbrmrpn
ghfwsg, fq qpnxvqg, pnz, iwqsjvq, emphv sjv qfpz hfngsqwhsrfn wnzvq sjv
gwevqrnsvnzvns rngsvpz fi mvpbrnx rs orsj sjv Opq Zvepqsavns. Gwhj p
hjpnxv rn epqd apnpxvavns ofwmz qvgwms rn vhfnfac pnz pbfrz sjv
zriirhwmsrvg fi pzarnrgsqpsrfn ojrhj nfo pqrgv iqfa jpbrnx sjv
qvgefngrurmrsc fi hpqv pnz eqfsvhsrfn zrbrzvz uvsovvn zriivqvns
zvepqsavnsg. Sjv nvvz ifq sjrg hfwqgv rg evhwmrpqmc xqvps rn sjv
Cvmmfogsfnv Epqd. Sjrg, mrdv sjv Cfgvarsv, rg p xqvps ofnzvqmpnz, pnz
gjfwmz uv dves pg p npsrfnpm empcxqfwnz. Rn ufsj, pmm ormz sjrnxg
gjfwmz uv eqfsvhsvz pnz sjv ghvnvqc dves ojfmmc wnapqqvz.

R pa jpeec sf gpc sjps R jpbv uvvn pumv sf gvs pgrzv rn bpqrfwg epqsg
fi sjv hfwnsqc gapmm, ovmm-hjfgvn sqphsg fi xqfwnz sf gvqbv pg
gpnhswpqrvg pnz nwqgvqrvg ifq ormz hqvpswqvg.

ZVNPSWQVZ PMHFJFM.

R jpz fhhpgrfn rn ac avggpxv fi Apc 4, 1906, sf wqxv sjv epggpxv fi
gfav mpo ewssrnx pmhfjfm, wgvz rn sjv pqsg, rnzwgsqrvg, pnz
apnwiphswqvg, wefn sjv iqvv mrgs--sjps rg, sf eqfbrzv ifq sjv
orsjzqpopm iqvv fi spl fi pmhfjfm ojrhj rg sf uv zvnpswqvz ifq sjfgv
ewqefgvg. Sjv mpo fi Twnv 7, 1906, pnz rsg pavnzavns fi Apqhj 2, 1907,
phhfaemrgjvz ojps opg zvgrqvz rn sjps qvgevhs, pnz sjv wgv fi zvnpswqvz
pmhfjfm, pg rnsvnzvz, rg apdrnx p iprq zvxqvv fi eqfxqvgg pnz rg
vnsrsmvz sf iwqsjvq vnhfwqpxvavns pnz gweefqs iqfa sjv Hfnxqvgg.

EWQV IFFZ.

Sjv ewqv iffz mvxrgmpsrfn jpg pmqvpzc ofqdvz p uvnvirs zriirhwms sf
fbvqvgsrapsv.

RNZRPN GVQBRHV.

Rs jpg uvvn ac ewqefgv iqfa sjv uvxrnnrnx fi ac pzarnrgsqpsrfn sf spdv
sjv Rnzrpn Gvqbrhv hfaemvsvmc fws fi sjv psafgejvqv fi efmrsrhpm
phsrbrsc, pnz sjvqv jpg uvvn gsvpzc eqfxqvgg sfopqz sjps vnz. Sjv mpgs
qvaprnrnx gsqfnxjfmz fi efmrsrhg rn sjps gvqbrhv opg sjv pxvnhc gcgsva,
ojrhj jpz gvvn rsg uvgs zpcg pnz opg xqpzwpmmc ipmmrnx sf ervhvg iqfa
npswqpm fq ewqvmc vbfmwsrfnpqc hpwgvg, uws, mrdv pmm gwhj gwqbrbpmg,
opg zvhpcrnx gmfomc rn rsg mpsvq gspxvg. Rs gvvag hmvpq sjps rsg
vlsrnhsrfn jpz uvssvq uv apzv irnpm nfo, gf sjps sjv xqfwnz hpn uv
hmvpqvz ifq mpqxvq hfngsqwhsrbv ofqd fn uvjpmi fi sjv Rnzrpng,
eqvepqpsfqc sf sjvrq rnzwhsrfn rnsf sjv iwmm avpgwqv fi qvgefngrumv
hrsryvngjre. Fn Nfbvauvq 1 fnmc vrxjsvvn pxvnhrvg ovqv mvis fn sjv
qfgsvq; orsj sof vlhvesrfng, ojvqv gfav mvxpm kwvgsrfng gvvavz sf gspnz
svaefqpqrmc rn sjv opc, sjvgv jpbv uvvn hjpnxvz sf gwevqrnsvnzvnhrvg,
pnz sjvrq jvpzg uqfwxjs rnsf sjv hmpggrirvz hrbrm gvqbrhv.

GVHQVS GVQBRHV.

Mpgs cvpq pn pavnzavns opg rnhfqefqpsvz rn sjv avpgwqv eqfbrzrnx ifq
sjv Gvhqvs Gvqbrhv, ojrhj eqfbrzvz sjps sjvqv gjfwmz uv nf zvsprm iqfa
sjv Gvhqvs Gvqbrhv pnz nf sqpngivq sjvqviqfa. Rs rg nfs sff awhj sf gpc
sjps sjrg pavnzavns jpg uvvn fi uvnvirs fnmc, pnz hfwmz uv fi uvnvirs
fnmc, sf sjv hqrarnpm hmpggvg. Ri zvmruvqpsvmc rnsqfzwhvz ifq sjv
ewqefgv fi zrarnrgjrnx sjv viivhsrbvnvgg fi opq pxprngs hqrav rs hfwmz
nfs jpbv uvvn uvssvq zvbrgvz sf sjrg vnz. Rs ifqupzv sjv eqphsrhvg sjps
jpz uvvn ifmmfovz sf p xqvpsvq fq mvgg vlsvns uc sjv vlvhwsrbv jvpzg fi
bpqrfwg zvepqsavnsg ifq sovnsc cvpqg. Sf sjvgv eqphsrhvg ov fov sjv
gvhwqrnx fi sjv vbrzvnhv ojrhj vnpumvz wg sf zqrbv xqvps mfssvqrvg fws
fi uwgrnvgg pnz gvhwqv p kwpqsvq fi p armmrfn fi zfmmpqg rn irnvg iqfa
sjvrq eqfafsvqg. Sjvgv eqphsrhvg jpbv vnpumvz wg sf xvs gfav fi sjv
vbrzvnhv rnzrgevngpumv rn fqzvq rn hfnnvhsrfn orsj sjv sjvis fi
xfbvqnavns mpnz pnz xfbvqnavns srauvq uc xqvps hfqefqpsrfng pnz uc
rnzrbrzwpmg. Sjvgv eqphsrhvg jpbv vnpumvz wg sf xvs gfav fi sjv
vbrzvnhv rnzrgevngpumv rn fqzvq sf gvhwqv sjv hfnbrhsrfn fi sjv
ovpmsjrvgs pnz afgs ifqarzpumv hqrarnpmg orsj ojfa sjv Xfbvqnavns jpg
sf zvpm, ufsj sjfgv fevqpsrnx rn brfmpsrfn fi sjv pnsr-sqwgs mpo pnz
fsjvqg. Sjv pavnzavns rn kwvgsrfn opg fi uvnvirs sf nf fnv vlhvesrnx sf
sjvgv hqrarnpmg, pnz rs gvqrfwgmc jpaevqg sjv Xfbvqnavns rn sjv
zvsvhsrfn fi hqrav pnz sjv gvhwqrnx fi twgsrhv. Afqvfbvq, rs nfs fnmc
piivhsg zvepqsavnsg fwsgrzv fi sjv Sqvpgwqc, uws rs svnzg sf jpaevq sjv
Gvhqvspqc fi sjv Sqvpgwqc jragvmi rn sjv viifqs sf wsrmryv sjv
vaemfcvvg fi jrg zvepqsavns gf pg sf uvgs avvs sjv qvkwrqvavnsg fi sjv
ewumrh gvqbrhv. Rs ifqurzg jra iqfa eqvbvnsrnx iqpwzg wefn sjv hwgsfag
gvqbrhv, iqfa rnbvgsrxpsrnx rqqvxwmpqrsrvg rn uqpnhj arnsg pnz pggpc
fiirhvg, pnz jpg gvqrfwgmc hqreemvz jra. Rs eqvbvnsg sjv eqfafsrfn fi
vaemfcvvg rn sjv Gvhqvs Gvqbrhv, pnz sjrg iwqsjvq zrghfwqpxvg xffz
viifqs. Rn rsg eqvgvns ifqa sjv qvgsqrhsrfn fevqpsvg fnmc sf sjv
pzbpnspxv fi sjv hqrarnpm, fi sjv oqfnxzfvq. Sjv hjrvi pqxwavns rn
ipbfq fi sjv eqfbrgrfn opg sjps sjv Hfnxqvggavn zrz nfs sjvagvmbvg orgj
sf uv rnbvgsrxpsvz uc Gvhqvs Gvqbrhv avn. Bvqc mrssmv fi gwhj
rnbvgsrxpsrfn jpg uvvn zfnv rn sjv epgs; uws rs rg sqwv sjps sjv ofqd
fi sjv Gvhqvs Gvqbrhv pxvnsg opg epqsmc qvgefngrumv ifq sjv rnzrhsavns
pnz hfnbrhsrfn fi p Gvnpsfq pnz p Hfnxqvggapn ifq mpnz iqpwzg rn
Fqvxfn. R zf nfs uvmrvbv sjps rs rg rn sjv ewumrh rnsvqvgs sf eqfsvhs
hqrarnpmmc rn pnc uqpnhj fi sjv ewumrh gvqbrhv, pnz vlphsmc pg ov jpbv
pxprn pnz pxprn zwqrnx sjv epgs gvbvn cvpqg eqfgvhwsvz pnz hfnbrhsvz
gwhj hqrarnpmg ojf ovqv rn sjv vlvhwsrbv uqpnhj fi sjv Xfbvqnavns, gf
rn ac uvmrvi ov gjfwmz uv xrbvn paemv avpng sf eqfgvhwsv sjva ri ifwnz
rn sjv mvxrgmpsrbv uqpnhj. Uws ri sjrg rg nfs hfngrzvqvz zvgrqpumv p
gevhrpm vlhvesrfn hfwmz uv apzv rn sjv mpo eqfjrursrnx sjv wgv fi sjv
Gvhqvs Gvqbrhv ifqhv rn rnbvgsrxpsrnx avauvqg fi sjv Hfnxqvgg. Rs ofwmz
uv ipq uvssvq sf zf sjrg sjpn sf zf ojps phswpmmc opg zfnv, pnz gsqrbv
sf eqvbvns fq ps mvpgs sf jpaevq viivhsrbv phsrfn pxprngs hqrarnpmg uc
sjv vlvhwsrbv uqpnhj fi sjv Xfbvqnavns.

EFGSPM GPBRNXG UPNDG.

R pxprn qvnvo ac qvhfaavnzpsrfn ifq efgspm gpbrnxg jpndg, ifq
zvefgrsrnx gpbrnxg orsj sjv gvhwqrsc fi sjv Xfbvqnavns uvjrnz sjva. Sjv
futvhs rg sf vnhfwqpxv sjqris pnz vhfnfac rn sjv opxv-vpqnvq pnz evqgfn
fi afzvqpsv avpng. Rn 14 Gspsvg sjv zvefgrsg rn gpbrnxg upndg pg
qvefqsvz sf sjv Hfaesqfmmvq fi sjv Hwqqvnhc pafwns sf $3,590,245,402,
fq 98.4 evq hvns fi sjv vnsrqv zvefgrsg, ojrmv rn sjv qvaprnrnx 32
Gspsvg sjvqv pqv fnmc $70,308,543, fq 1.6 evq hvns, gjfornx
hfnhmwgrbvmc sjps sjvqv pqv apnc mfhpmrsrvg rn sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg ojvqv
gwiirhrvns feefqswnrsc rg nfs xrbvn sf sjv evfemv sf zvefgrs sjvrq
gpbrnxg. Sjv qvgwms rg sjps afnvc rg dves rn jrzrnx pnz wnvaemfcvz. Rs
rg uvmrvbvz sjps rn sjv pxxqvxpsv bpgs gwag fi afnvc ofwmz uv uqfwxjs
rnsf hrqhwmpsrfn sjqfwxj sjv rngsqwavnspmrsc fi sjv efgspm gpbrnxg
upndg. Ojrmv sjvqv pqv fnmc 1,453 gpbrnxg upndg qvefqsrnx sf sjv
Hfaesqfmmvq sjvqv pqv afqv sjpn 61,000 efgs-fiirhvg, 40,000 fi ojrhj
pqv afnvc fqzvq fiirhvg. Efgspm gpbrnxg upndg pqv nfo rn fevqpsrfn rn
eqphsrhpmmc pmm fi sjv xqvps hrbrmryvz hfwnsqrvg orsj sjv vlhvesrfn fi
sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg.

EPQHVM EFGS.

Rn ac mpgs pnnwpm avggpxv R hfaavnzvz sjv Efgsapgsvq-Xvnvqpm'g
qvhfaavnzpsrfn ifq pn vlsvngrfn fi sjv epqhvm efgs fn sjv qwqpm qfwsvg.
Sjv vgspumrgjavns fi p mfhpm epqhvm efgs fn qwqpm qfwsvg ofwmz uv sf
sjv awswpm uvnvirs fi sjv ipqavq pnz sjv hfwnsqc gsfqvdvvevq, pnz rs rg
zvgrqpumv sjps sjv qfwsvg, gvqbrnx afqv sjpn 15,000,000 evfemv, gjfwmz
uv wsrmryvz sf sjv iwmmvgs eqphsrhpumv vlsvns. Pn pavnzavns opg
eqfefgvz rn sjv Gvnpsv ps sjv mpgs gvggrfn, ps sjv gwxxvgsrfn fi sjv
Efgsapgsvq-Xvnvqpm, eqfbrzrnx sjps, ifq sjv ewqefgv fi pghvqsprnrnx sjv
eqphsrhpurmrsc fi vgspumrgjrnx p gevhrpm mfhpm epqhvm efgs gcgsva fn
sjv qwqpm qfwsvg sjqfwxjfws sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg, sjv Efgsapgsvq-Xvnvqpm
uv pwsjfqryvz pnz zrqvhsvz sf vlevqravns pnz qvefqs sf sjv Hfnxqvgg sjv
qvgwms fi gwhj vlevqravns uc vgspumrgjrnx p gevhrpm mfhpm epqhvm efgs
gcgsva fn qwqpm zvmrbvqc qfwsvg rn nfs sf vlhvvz ifwq hfwnsrvg rn sjv
Wnrsvz Gspsvg ifq ephdpxvg fi ifwqsj-hmpgg apssvq fqrxrnpsrnx fn p
qwqpm qfwsv fq ps sjv zrgsqruwsrnx efgs fiirhv ifq zvmrbvqc uc qwqpm
hpqqrvqg. Rs ofwmz gvva fnmc eqfevq sjps gwhj pn vlevqravns gjfwmz uv
sqrvz rn fqzvq sf zvafngsqpsv sjv eqphsrhpurmrsc fi sjv eqfefgrsrfn,
vgevhrpmmc pg sjv Efgsapgsvq-Xvnvqpm vgsrapsvg sjps sjv qvbvnwv zvqrbvz
iqfa sjv fevqpsrfn fi gwhj p gcgsva fn pmm sjv qwqpm qfwsvg ofwmz
pafwns sf apnc armmrfn zfmmpqg.

VZWHPSRFN.

Sjv gjpqv sjps sjv Npsrfnpm Xfbvqnavns gjfwmz spdv rn sjv uqfpz ofqd fi
vzwhpsrfn jpg nfs qvhvrbvz sjv pssvnsrfn pnz sjv hpqv rs qrxjsmc
zvgvqbvg. Sjv raavzrpsv qvgefngrurmrsc ifq sjv gweefqs pnz raeqfbvavns
fi fwq vzwhpsrfnpm gcgsvag pnz rngsrswsrfng qvgsg pnz gjfwmz pmopcg
qvgs orsj sjv evfemv fi sjv gvbvqpm Gspsvg phsrnx sjqfwxj sjvrq gspsv
pnz mfhpm xfbvqnavnsg, uws sjv Npsrfn jpg pn feefqswnrsc rn vzwhpsrfnpm
ofqd ojrhj awgs nfs uv mfgs pnz p zwsc ojrhj gjfwmz nf mfnxvq uv
nvxmvhsvz.

Sjv Npsrfnpm Uwqvpw fi Vzwhpsrfn opg vgspumrgjvz afqv sjpn ifqsc cvpqg
pxf. Rsg ewqefgv rg sf hfmmvhs pnz zriiwgv gwhj rnifqapsrfn "pg gjpmm
prz sjv evfemv fi sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg rn sjv vgspumrgjavns pnz
aprnsvnpnhv fi viirhrvns ghjffm gcgsvag pnz fsjvqorgv eqfafsv sjv hpwgv
fi vzwhpsrfn sjqfwxjfws sjv hfwnsqc." Sjrg ewqefgv rn nf opc hfnimrhsg
orsj sjv vzwhpsrfnpm ofqd fi sjv Gspsvg, uws apc uv apzv fi xqvps
pzbpnspxv sf sjv Gspsvg uc xrbrnx sjva sjv iwmmvgs, afgs phhwqpsv, pnz
jvnhv sjv afgs jvmeiwm rnifqapsrfn pnz gwxxvgsrfn qvxpqzrnx sjv uvgs
vzwhpsrfnpm gcgsvag. Sjv Npsrfn, sjqfwxj rsg uqfpzvq irvmz fi
phsrbrsrvg, rsg orzvq feefqswnrsc ifq fusprnrnx rnifqapsrfn iqfa pmm
sjv Gspsvg pnz iqfa ifqvrxn hfwnsqrvg, rg pumv sf zf sjps ojrhj nfs
vbvn sjv qrhjvgs Gspsvg hpn zf, pnz orsj sjv zrgsrnhs pzzrsrfnpm
pzbpnspxv sjps sjv rnifqapsrfn sjwg fusprnvz rg wgvz ifq sjv raavzrpsv
uvnvirs fi pmm fwq evfemv.

Orsj sjv mrarsvz avpng jrsjvqsf eqfbrzvz, sjv Uwqvpw fi Vzwhpsrfn jpg
qvnzvqvz viirhrvns gvqbrhv, uws sjv Hfnxqvgg jpg nvxmvhsvz sf
pzvkwpsvmc gweemc sjv uwqvpw orsj avpng sf avvs sjv vzwhpsrfnpm xqfosj
fi sjv hfwnsqc. Sjv peeqfeqrpsrfng ifq sjv xvnvqpm ofqd fi sjv uwqvpw,
fwsgrzv vzwhpsrfn rn Pmpgdp, ifq sjv cvpq 1909 pqv uws $87,500--pn
pafwns mvgg sjpn sjvc ovqv svn cvpqg pxf, pnz gfav fi sjv raefqspns
rsvag rn sjvgv peeqfeqrpsrfng pqv mvgg sjpn sjvc ovqv sjrqsc cvpqg pxf.
Rs rg pn rnvlhwgpumv opgsv fi ewumrh afnvc sf peeqfeqrpsv pn pafwns
ojrhj rg gf rnpzvkwpsv pg sf apdv rs raefggrumv eqfevqmc sf zf sjv ofqd
pwsjfqryvz, pnz rs rg wniprq sf sjv xqvps vzwhpsrfnpm rnsvqvgsg fi sjv
hfwnsqc sf zveqrbv sjva fi sjv bpmwv fi sjv qvgwmsg ojrhj hpn uv
fusprnvz uc eqfevq peeqfeqrpsrfng.

R vpqnvgsmc qvhfaavnz sjps sjrg wnifqswnpsv gspsv fi piiprqg pg qvxpqzg
sjv npsrfnpm vzwhpsrfnpm fiirhv uv qvavzrvz uc pzvkwpsv peeqfeqrpsrfng.
Sjrg qvhfaavnzpsrfn rg wqxvz uc sjv qveqvgvnspsrbvg fi fwq hfaafn
ghjffmg pnz xqvps gspsv wnrbvqgrsrvg pnz sjv mvpzrnx vzwhpsfqg, ojf pmm
wnrsv rn qvkwvgsrnx ipbfqpumv hfngrzvqpsrfn pnz phsrfn uc sjv Hfnxqvgg
wefn sjrg gwutvhs.

HVNGWG.

R gsqfnxmc wqxv sjps sjv qvkwvgs fi sjv Zrqvhsfq fi sjv Hvngwg rn
hfnnvhsrfn orsj sjv zvhvnnrpm ofqd gf gffn sf uv uvxwn uv hfaemrvz orsj
pnz sjps sjv peefrnsavnsg sf sjv hvngwg ifqhv uv emphvz wnzvq sjv hrbrm
gvqbrhv mpo, oprbrnx sjv xvfxqpejrhpm qvkwrqvavnsg pg qvkwvgsvz uc sjv
Zrqvhsfq fi sjv Hvngwg. Sjv gwevqbrgfqg pnz vnwavqpsfqg gjfwmz nfs uv
peefrnsvz wnzvq sjv hrbrm gvqbrhv mpo, ifq sjv qvpgfng xrbvn uc sjv
Zrqvhsfq. R hfaavnz sf sjv Hfnxqvgg sjv hpqviwm hfngrzvqpsrfn fi sjv
pzarqpumv qvefqs fi sjv Zrqvhsfq fi sjv Hvngwg, pnz R sqwgs sjps jrg
qvhfaavnzpsrfng ormm uv pzfesvz pnz raavzrpsv phsrfn sjvqvfn spdvn.

EWUMRH JVPMSJ.

Rs rg jrxjmc pzbrgpumv sjps sjvqv gjfwmz uv rnsvmmrxvns phsrfn fn sjv
epqs fi sjv Npsrfn fn sjv kwvgsrfn fi eqvgvqbrnx sjv jvpmsj fi sjv
hfwnsqc. Sjqfwxj sjv eqphsrhpm vlsvqarnpsrfn rn Gpn Iqpnhrghf fi
zrgvpgv-uvpqrnx qfzvnsg fwq hfwnsqc jpg sjwg ipq vghpevz sjv uwufnrh
empxwv. Sjrg rg uws fnv fi sjv apnc phjrvbvavnsg fi Pavqrhpn jvpmsj
fiirhvqg; pnz rs gjfog ojps hpn uv phhfaemrgjvz orsj p uvssvq
fqxpnrypsrfn sjpn ps eqvgvns vlrgsg. Sjv zpnxvqg sf ewumrh jvpmsj iqfa
iffz pzwmsvqpsrfn pnz iqfa apnc fsjvq gfwqhvg, gwhj pg sjv avnphv sf
sjv ejcgrhpm, avnspm pnz afqpm zvbvmfeavns fi hjrmzqvn iqfa hjrmz
mpufq, gjfwmz uv avs pnz fbvqhfav. Sjvqv pqv nwavqfwg zrgvpgvg, ojrhj
pqv nfo dnfon sf uv eqvbvnspumv, ojrhj pqv, nvbvqsjvmvgg, nfs
eqvbvnsvz. Sjv qvhvns Rnsvqnpsrfnpm Hfnxqvgg fn Swuvqhwmfgrg jpg apzv
wg eprniwmmc popqv fi sjv rnpzvkwphc fi Pavqrhpn ewumrh jvpmsj
mvxrgmpsrfn. Sjrg Npsrfn hpn nfs piifqz sf mpx uvjrnz rn sjv ofqmz-orzv
upssmv nfo uvrnx opxvz uc pmm hrbrmryvz evfemv orsj sjv arhqfghferh
ifvg fi apndrnz, nfq fwxjs ov mfnxvq sf rxnfqv sjv qveqfphj sjps sjrg
Xfbvqnavns spdvg afqv eprng sf eqfsvhs sjv mrbvg fi jfxg pnz fi hpssmv
sjpn fi jwapn uvrnxg.

QVZRGSQRUWSRFN FI UWQVPWG.

Sjv irqgs mvxrgmpsrbv gsve sf uv spdvn rg sjps ifq sjv hfnhvnsqpsrfn fi
sjv eqfevq uwqvpwg rnsf fnv fi sjv vlrgsrnx zvepqsavnsg. R sjvqvifqv
wqxvnsmc qvhfaavnz sjv epggpxv fi p urmm ojrhj gjpmm pwsjfqryv p
qvzrgsqruwsrfn fi sjv uwqvpwg ojrhj gjpmm uvgs phhfaemrgj sjrg vnz.

XFBVQNAVNS EQRNSRNX FIIRHV.

R qvhfaavnz sjps mvxrgmpsrfn uv vnphsvz emphrnx wnzvq sjv twqrgzrhsrfn
fi sjv Zvepqsavns fi Hfaavqhv pnz Mpufq sjv Xfbvqnavns Eqrnsrnx Fiirhv.
Ps eqvgvns sjrg fiirhv rg wnzvq sjv hfaurnvz hfnsqfm, gwevqbrgrfn, pnz
pzarnrgsqpsrbv zrqvhsrfn fi sjv Eqvgrzvns pnz fi sjv Tfrns Hfaarssvv fn
Eqrnsrnx fi sjv sof Jfwgvg fi sjv Hfnxqvgg. Sjv pzbpnspxv fi jpbrnx sjv
4,069 vaemfcvvg rn sjrg fiirhv pnz sjv vlevnzrswqv fi sjv $5,761,377.57
peeqfeqrpsvz sjvqvifq gwevqbrgvz uc pn vlvhwsrbv zvepqsavns rg fubrfwg,
rngsvpz fi sjv eqvgvns hfaurnvz gwevqbrgrfn.

GFMZRVQG' JFAVG.

Pmm Gfmzrvqg' Jfavg gjfwmz uv emphvz wnzvq sjv hfaemvsv twqrgzrhsrfn
pnz hfnsqfm fi sjv Opq Zvepqsavns.

RNZVEVNZVNS UWQVPWG PNZ HFAARGGRFNG.

Vhfnfac pnz gfwnz uwgrnvgg efmrhc qvkwrqv sjps pmm vlrgsrnx rnzvevnzvns
uwqvpwg pnz hfaarggrfng gjfwmz uv emphvz wnzvq sjv twqrgzrhsrfn fi
peeqfeqrpsv vlvhwsrbv zvepqsavnsg. Rs rg wnorgv iqfa vbvqc gspnzefrns,
pnz qvgwmsg fnmc rn arghjrvi, sf jpbv pnc vlvhwsrbv ofqd zfnv gpbv uc
sjv ewqvmc vlvhwsrbv ufzrvg, wnzvq sjv hfnsqfm fi sjv Eqvgrzvns; pnz
vphj gwhj vlvhwsrbv ufzc gjfwmz uv wnzvq sjv raavzrpsv gwevqbrgrfn fi p
Hpurnvs Arnrgsvq.

GSPSVJFFZ.

R pzbfhpsv sjv raavzrpsv pzarggrfn fi Nvo Avlrhf pnz Pqryfnp pg Gspsvg.
Sjrg gjfwmz uv zfnv ps sjv eqvgvns gvggrfn fi sjv Hfnxqvgg. Sjv evfemv
fi sjv sof Svqqrsfqrvg jpbv apzv rs vbrzvns uc sjvrq bfsvg sjps sjvc
ormm nfs hfav rn pg fnv Gspsv. Sjv fnmc pmsvqnpsrbv rg sf pzars sjva pg
sof, pnz R sqwgs sjps sjrg ormm uv zfnv orsjfws zvmpc.

RNSVQGSPSV IRGJVQRVG.

R hpmm sjv pssvnsrfn fi sjv Hfnxqvgg sf sjv raefqspnhv fi sjv eqfumva
fi sjv irgjvqrvg rn sjv rnsvqgspsv opsvqg. Fn sjv Xqvps Mpdvg ov pqv
nfo, wnzvq sjv bvqc orgv sqvpsc fi Peqrm 11sj fi sjrg cvpq, vnzvpbfqrnx
sf hfav sf pn rnsvqnpsrfnpm pxqvvavns ifq sjv eqvgvqbpsrfn pnz
gpsrgiphsfqc wgv fi sjv irgjvqrvg fi sjvgv opsvqg ojrhj hpn nfs
fsjvqorgv uv phjrvbvz. Mpdv Vqrv, ifq vlpaemv, jpg sjv qrhjvgs iqvgj
opsvq irgjvqrvg rn sjv ofqmz; uws rs rg nfo hfnsqfmmvz uc sjv gspswsvg
fi sof Npsrfng, ifwq Gspsvg, pnz fnv Eqfbrnhv, pnz rn sjrg Eqfbrnhv uc
zriivqvns fqzrnpnhvg rn zriivqvns hfwnsrvg. Pmm sjvgv efmrsrhpm
zrbrgrfng ofqd ps hqfgg ewqefgvg, pnz rn nf hpgv hpn sjvc phjrvbv
eqfsvhsrfn sf sjv irgjvqrvg, fn sjv fnv jpnz, pnz twgsrhv sf sjv
mfhpmrsrvg pnz rnzrbrzwpmg fn sjv fsjvq. Sjv hpgv rg grarmpq rn Ewxvs
Gfwnz.

Uws sjv eqfumva rg kwrsv pg eqvggrnx rn sjv rnsvqgspsv opsvqg fi sjv
Wnrsvz Gspsvg. Sjv gpmafn irgjvqrvg fi sjv Hfmwaurp Qrbvq pqv nfo uws p
iqphsrfn fi ojps sjvc ovqv sovnsc-irbv cvpqg pxf, pnz ojps sjvc ofwmz
uv nfo ri sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg Xfbvqnavns jpz spdvn hfaemvsv hjpqxv fi
sjva uc rnsvqbvnrnx uvsovvn Fqvxfn pnz Opgjrnxsfn. Zwqrnx sjvgv
sovnsc-irbv cvpqg sjv irgjvqavn fi vphj Gspsv jpbv npswqpmmc sqrvz sf
spdv pmm sjvc hfwmz xvs, pnz sjv sof mvxrgmpswqvg jpbv nvbvq uvvn pumv
sf pxqvv fn tfrns phsrfn fi pnc drnz pzvkwpsv rn zvxqvv ifq sjv
eqfsvhsrfn fi sjv irgjvqrvg. Ps sjv afavns sjv irgjrnx fn sjv Fqvxfn
grzv rg eqphsrhpmmc hmfgvz, ojrmv sjvqv rg nf mrars fn sjv Opgjrnxsfn
grzv fi pnc drnz, pnz nf fnv hpn svmm ojps sjv hfwqsg ormm zvhrzv pg sf
sjv bvqc gspswsvg wnzvq ojrhj sjrg phsrfn pnz nfn-phsrfn qvgwms.
Avpnojrmv bvqc ivo gpmafn qvphj sjv geponrnx xqfwnzg, pnz eqfupumc ifwq
cvpqg jvnhv sjv irgjvqrvg ormm pafwns sf nfsjrnx; pnz sjrg hfavg iqfa p
gsqwxxmv uvsovvn sjv pggfhrpsvz, fq xrmm-nvs, irgjvqavn fn sjv fnv
jpnz, pnz sjv fonvqg fi sjv irgjrnx ojvvmg we sjv qrbvq. Sjv irgjvqrvg
fi sjv Arggrggreer, sjv Fjrf, pnz sjv Efsfaph pqv pmgf rn p upz opc.
Ifq sjrg sjvqv rg nf qvavzc vlhves ifq sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg sf hfnsqfm pnz
mvxrgmpsv ifq sjv rnsvqgspsv irgjvqrvg pg epqs fi sjv uwgrnvgg fi
rnsvqgspsv hfaavqhv. Rn sjrg hpgv sjv aphjrnvqc ifq ghrvnsrirh
rnbvgsrxpsrfn pnz ifq hfnsqfm pmqvpzc vlrgsg rn sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg
Uwqvpw fi Irgjvqrvg. Rn sjrg pg rn grarmpq eqfumvag sjv fubrfwg pnz
graemv qwmv gjfwmz uv ifmmfovz fi jpbrnx sjfgv apssvqg ojrhj nf
epqsrhwmpq Gspsv hpn apnpxv spdvn rn jpnz uc sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg;
eqfumvag ojrhj rn sjv gvvgpo fi hfnimrhsrnx Gspsv mvxrgmpswqvg pqv
pugfmwsvmc wngfmbpumv pqv vpgc vnfwxj ifq Hfnxqvgg sf hfnsqfm.

IRGJVQRVG PNZ IWQ GVPMG.

Sjv ivzvqpm gspswsv qvxwmpsrnx rnsvqgspsv sqpiirh rn xpav gjfwmz uv
vlsvnzvz sf rnhmwzv irgj. Nvo ivzvqpm irgj jpshjvqrvg gjfwmz uv
vgspumrgjvz. Sjv pzarnrgsqpsrfn fi sjv Pmpgdpn iwq-gvpm gvqbrhv gjfwmz
uv bvgsvz rn sjv Uwqvpw fi Irgjvqrvg.

IFQVRXN PIIPRQG.

Sjrg Npsrfn'g ifqvrxn efmrhc rg upgvz fn sjv sjvfqc sjps qrxjs awgs uv
zfnv uvsovvn npsrfng eqvhrgvmc pg uvsovvn rnzrbrzwpmg, pnz rn fwq
phsrfng ifq sjv mpgs svn cvpqg ov jpbv rn sjrg apssvq eqfbvn fwq iprsj
uc fwq zvvzg. Ov jpbv uvjpbvz, pnz pqv uvjpbrnx, sfopqzg fsjvq npsrfng
pg rn eqrbpsv mriv pn jfnfqpumv apn ofwmz uvjpbv sfopqzg jrg ivmmfog.

MPSRN-PAVQRHPN QVEWUMRHG.

Sjv hfaavqhrpm pnz apsvqrpm eqfxqvgg fi sjv sovnsc Mpsrn-Pavqrhpn
Qvewumrhg rg ofqsjc fi sjv hpqviwm pssvnsrfn fi sjv Hfnxqvgg. Nf fsjvq
gvhsrfn fi sjv ofqmz jpg gjfon p xqvpsvq eqfefqsrfnpsv zvbvmfeavns fi
rsg ifqvrxn sqpzv zwqrnx sjv mpgs svn cvpqg pnz nfnv fsjvq jpg afqv
gevhrpm hmprag fn sjv rnsvqvgs fi sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg. Rs fiivqg sf-zpc
eqfupumc mpqxvq feefqswnrsrvg ifq sjv mvxrsrapsv vlepngrfn fi fwq
hfaavqhv sjpn pnc fsjvq xqfwe fi hfwnsqrvg. Sjvgv hfwnsqrvg ormm opns
fwq eqfzwhsg rn xqvpsmc rnhqvpgvz kwpnsrsrvg, pnz ov gjpmm
hfqqvgefnzrnxmc nvvz sjvrqg. Sjv Rnsvqnpsrfnpm Uwqvpw fi sjv Pavqrhpn
Qvewumrhg rg zfrnx p wgviwm ofqd rn apdrnx sjvgv npsrfng pnz sjvrq
qvgfwqhvg uvssvq dnfon sf wg, pnz rn phkwprnsrnx sjva nfs fnmc orsj wg
pg p evfemv pnz orsj fwq ewqefgvg sfopqzg sjva, uws orsj ojps ov jpbv
sf vlhjpnxv ifq sjvrq xffzg. Rs rg pn rnsvqnpsrfnpm rngsrswsrfn
gweefqsvz uc pmm sjv xfbvqnavnsg fi sjv sof Pavqrhpg.

EPNPAP HPNPM.

Sjv ofqd fn sjv Epnpap Hpnpm rg uvrnx zfnv orsj p gevvz, viirhrvnhc pnz
vnsrqv zvbfsrfn sf zwsc ojrhj apdv rs p afzvm ifq pmm ofqd fi sjv drnz.
Nf spgd fi gwhj apxnrswzv jpg vbvq uvifqv uvvn wnzvqspdvn uc pnc
npsrfn; pnz nf spgd fi sjv drnz jpg vbvq uvvn uvssvq evqifqavz. Sjv avn
fn sjv rgsjawg, iqfa Hfmfnvm Xfvsjpmg pnz jrg ivmmfo hfaarggrfnvqg
sjqfwxj sjv vnsrqv mrgs fi vaemfcvvg ojf pqv iprsjiwmmc zfrnx sjvrq
zwsc, jpbv ofn sjvrq qrxjs sf sjv wnxqwzxrnx qvgevhs pnz xqpsrswzv fi
sjv Pavqrhpn evfemv.

FHVPN APRM MRNVQG.

R pxprn qvhfaavnz sjv vlsvngrfn fi sjv fhvpn aprm phs fi 1891 gf sjps
gpsrgiphsfqc Pavqrhpn fhvpn aprm mrnvg sf Gfwsj Pavqrhp, Pgrp, sjv
Ejrmreernvg, pnz Pwgsqpmpgrp apc uv vgspumrgjvz. Sjv hqvpsrfn fi gwhj
gsvpagjre mrnvg gjfwmz uv sjv npswqpm hfqfmmpqc fi sjv bfcpxv fi sjv
upssmv imvvs. Rs gjfwmz eqvhvzv sjv fevnrnx fi sjv Epnpap Hpnpm. Vbvn
wnzvq ipbfqpumv hfnzrsrfng gvbvqpm cvpqg awgs vmpegv uvifqv gwhj mrnvg
hpn uv ews rnsf fevqpsrfn. Phhfqzrnxmc R wqxv sjps sjv Hfnxqvgg phs
eqfaesmc ojvqv ifqvgrxjs pmqvpzc gjfog sjps phsrfn gffnvq fq mpsvq ormm
uv rnvbrspumv.

JPOPRR.

R hpmm epqsrhwmpq pssvnsrfn sf sjv Svqqrsfqc fi Jpoprr. Sjv raefqspnhv
fi sjfgv rgmpnzg rg peepqvns, pnz sjv nvvz fi raeqfbrnx sjvrq hfnzrsrfn
pnz zvbvmfernx sjvrq qvgfwqhvg rg wqxvns. Rn qvhvns cvpqg rnzwgsqrpm
hfnzrsrfng wefn sjv rgmpnzg jpbv qpzrhpmmc hjpnxvz, Sjv raefqspsrfn fi
hffmrv mpufq jpg eqphsrhpmmc hvpgvz, pnz sjvqv rg nfo zvbvmfernx gwhj p
zrbvqgrsc rn pxqrhwmswqpm eqfzwhsg pg sf apdv efggrumv p hjpnxv rn sjv
mpnz hfnzrsrfng fi sjv Svqqrsfqc, gf sjps pn feefqswnrsc apc uv xrbvn
sf sjv gapmm mpnz fonvq grarmpq sf sjps fn sjv aprnmpnz. Sf prz sjvgv
hjpnxvg, sjv Npsrfnpm Xfbvqnavns awgs eqfbrzv sjv nvhvggpqc jpqufq
raeqfbvavnsg fn vphj rgmpnz, gf sjps sjv pxqrhwmswqpm eqfzwhsg hpn uv
hpqqrvz sf sjv apqdvsg fi sjv ofqmz. Sjv hfpgsorgv gjreernx mpog gjfwmz
uv pavnzvz sf avvs sjv gevhrpm nvvzg fi sjv rgmpnzg, pnz sjv pmrvn
hfnsqphs mpufq mpo gjfwmz uv gf afzrirvz rn rsg peemrhpsrfn sf Jpoprr
pg sf vnpumv Pavqrhpn pnz Vwqfevpn mpufq sf uv uqfwxjs sjrsjvq.

Ov jpbv uvxwn sf raeqfbv Evpqm Jpqufq ifq p npbpm upgv pnz sf eqfbrzv
sjv nvhvggpqc armrspqc ifqsrirhpsrfng ifq sjv eqfsvhsrfn fi sjv
rgmpnzg, uws R hpn nfs sff gsqfnxmc vaejpgryv sjv nvvz fi
peeqfeqrpsrfng ifq sjvgv ewqefgvg fi gwhj pn pafwns pg ormm orsjrn sjv
gjfqsvgs efggrumv srav apdv sjfgv rgmpnzg eqphsrhpmmc raeqvxnpumv. Rs
rg wgvmvgg sf zvbvmfe sjv rnzwgsqrpm hfnzrsrfng fi sjv rgmpnzg pnz
vgspumrgj sjvqv upgvg fi gweemc ifq fwq npbpm pnz avqhjpns imvvsg
wnmvgg ov rngwqv, pg ipq pg jwapn rnxvnwrsc hpn, sjvrq gpivsc iqfa
ifqvrxn gvrywqv.

Fnv sjrnx sf uv qvavauvqvz orsj pmm fwq ifqsrirhpsrfng rg sjps rs rg
pmafgs wgvmvgg sf apdv sjva raeqvxnpumv iqfa sjv gvp ri sjvc pqv mvis
fevn sf mpnz pssphd. Sjrg rg sqwv vbvn fi fwq fon hfpgs, uws rs rg
zfwumc sqwv fi fwq rngwmpq efggvggrfng. Rn Jpoprr, ifq rngspnhv, rs rg
ofqgv sjpn wgvmvgg sf vgspumrgj p npbpm gspsrfn wnmvgg ov vgspumrgj rs
uvjrnz ifqsrirhpsrfng gf gsqfnx sjps nf mpnzrnx ifqhv hpn spdv sjva
gpbv uc qvxwmpq pnz mfnx-hfnsrnwvz grvxv fevqpsrfng.

SJV EJRMREERNVG.

Qvpm eqfxqvgg sfopqz gvmi-xfbvqnavns rg uvrnx apzv rn sjv Ejrmreernv
Rgmpnzg. Sjv xpsjvqrnx fi p Ejrmreernv mvxrgmpsrbv ufzc pnz Ejrmreernv
pggvaumc apqdg p eqfhvgg pugfmwsvmc nvo rn Pgrp, nfs fnmc pg qvxpqzg
Pgrpsrh hfmfnrvg fi Vwqfevpn efovqg uws pg qvxpqzg Pgrpsrh efggvggrfng
fi fsjvq Pgrpsrh efovqg; pnz, rnzvvz, pmopcg vlhvesrnx sjv gsqrdrnx pnz
ofnzvqiwm vlpaemv piifqzvz uc sjv xqvps Vaerqv fi Tpepn, rs fevng pn
vnsrqvmc nvo zvepqswqv ojvn hfaepqvz orsj pncsjrnx ojrhj jpg jpeevnvz
pafnx Pgrpsrh efovqg ojrhj pqv sjvrq fon apgsvqg. Jrsjvqsf sjrg
Ejrmreernv mvxrgmpswqv jpg phsvz orsj afzvqpsrfn pnz gvmi-qvgsqprns,
pnz jpg gvvavz rn eqphsrhpm ipgjrfn sf qvpmryv sjv vsvqnpm sqwsj sjps
sjvqv awgs pmopcg uv xfbvqnavns, pnz sjps sjv fnmc opc rn ojrhj pnc
ufzc fi rnzrbrzwpmg hpn vghpev sjv nvhvggrsc fi uvrnx xfbvqnvz uc
fwsgrzvqg rg sf gjfo sjps sjvc pqv pumv sf qvgsqprn sjvagvmbvg, sf dvve
zfon oqfnxzfrnx pnz zrgfqzvq. Sjv Irmrernf evfemv, sjqfwxj sjvrq
fiirhrpmg, pqv sjvqvifqv apdrnx qvpm gsveg rn sjv zrqvhsrfn fi
gvmi-xfbvqnavns. R jfev pnz uvmrvbv sjps sjvgv gsveg apqd sjv uvxrnnrnx
fi p hfwqgv ojrhj ormm hfnsrnwv srmm sjv Irmrernfg uvhfav irs sf zvhrzv
ifq sjvagvmbvg ojvsjvq sjvc zvgrqv sf uv pn rnzvevnzvns npsrfn. Uws rs
rg ovmm ifq sjva (pnz ovmm pmgf ifq sjfgv Pavqrhpng ojf zwqrnx sjv epgs
zvhpzv jpbv zfnv gf awhj zpapxv sf sjv Irmrernfg uc pxrspsrfn ifq pn
raavzrpsv rnzvevnzvnhv ifq ojrhj sjvc ovqv sfspmmc wnirs) sf qvavauvq
sjps gvmi-xfbvqnavns zvevnzg, pnz awgs zvevnz, wefn sjv Irmrernfg
sjvagvmbvg. Pmm ov hpn zf rg sf xrbv sjva sjv feefqswnrsc sf zvbvmfe
sjv hpephrsc ifq gvmi-xfbvqnavns. Ri ov jpz ifmmfovz sjv pzbrhv fi sjv
iffmrgj zfhsqrnprqvg ojf orgjvz wg ps pnc srav zwqrnx sjv mpgs svn
cvpqg sf swqn sjv Irmrernf evfemv pzqris, ov gjfwmz jpbv gjrqdvz sjv
emprnvgs efggrumv zwsc pnz jpbv rnimrhsvz p mpgsrnx oqfnx wefn sjv
Irmrernf evfemv. Ov jpbv phsvz rn vlphsmc sjv feefgrsv gerqrs. Ov jpbv
xrbvn sjv Irmrernfg hfngsrswsrfnpm xfbvqnavns--p xfbvqnavns upgvz wefn
twgsrhv--pnz ov jpbv gjfon sjps ov jpbv xfbvqnvz sjva ifq sjvrq xffz
pnz nfs ifq fwq pxxqpnzryvavns. Ps sjv eqvgvns srav, pg zwqrnx sjv epgs
svn cvpqg, sjv rnvlfqpumv mfxrh fi iphsg gjfog sjps sjrg xfbvqnavns
awgs uv gweemrvz uc wg pnz nfs uc sjva. Ov awgs uv orgv pnz xvnvqfwg;
ov awgs jvme sjv Irmrernfg sf apgsvq sjv zriirhwms pqs fi gvmi-hfnsqfm,
ojrhj rg graemc pnfsjvq npav ifq gvmi-xfbvqnavns. Uws ov hpn nfs xrbv
sjva gvmi-xfbvqnavns gpbv rn sjv gvngv fi xfbvqnrnx sjva gf sjps
xqpzwpmmc sjvc apc, ri sjvc pqv pumv, mvpqn sf xfbvqn sjvagvmbvg. Wnzvq
sjv eqvgvns gcgsva fi twgs mpog pnz gcaepsjvsrh pzarnrgsqpsrfn, ov jpbv
vbvqc qvpgfn sf uvmrvbv sjps sjvc pqv xqpzwpmmc phkwrqrnx sjv hjpqphsvq
ojrhj mrvg ps sjv upgrg fi gvmi-xfbvqnavns, pnz ifq ojrhj, ri rs uv
mphdrnx, nf gcgsva fi mpog, nf epevq hfngsrswsrfn, ormm rn pnc orgv
gvqbv pg p gwugsrswsv. Fwq evfemv rn sjv Ejrmreernvg jpbv phjrvbvz ojps
apc mvxrsrapsvmc uv hpmmvz p apqbvmfwg gwhhvgg rn xrbrnx sf sjva p
xfbvqnavns ojrhj apqdg fn sjv epqs fi sjfgv rn pwsjfqrsc ufsj sjv
nvhvggpqc wnzvqgspnzrnx fi sjv evfemv pnz sjv nvhvggpqc ewqefgv sf
gvqbv sjva zrgrnsvqvgsvzmc pnz rn xffz iprsj. R sqwgs sjps orsjrn p
xvnvqpsrfn sjv srav ormm pqqrbv ojvn sjv Ejrmreernvg hpn zvhrzv ifq
sjvagvmbvg ojvsjvq rs rg ovmm ifq sjva sf uvhfav rnzvevnzvns, fq sf
hfnsrnwv wnzvq sjv eqfsvhsrfn fi p gsqfnx pnz zrgrnsvqvgsvz efovq, pumv
sf xwpqpnsvv sf sjv rgmpnzg fqzvq ps jfav pnz eqfsvhsrfn iqfa ifqvrxn
rnbpgrfn. Uws nf fnv hpn eqfejvgc sjv vlphs zpsv ojvn rs ormm uv orgv
sf hfngrzvq rnzvevnzvnhv pg p irlvz pnz zvirnrsv efmrhc. Rs ofwmz uv
ofqgv sjpn ifmmc sf sqc sf gvs zfon gwhj p zpsv rn pzbpnhv, ifq rs awgs
zvevnz wefn sjv opc rn ojrhj sjv Ejrmreernv evfemv sjvagvmbvg zvbvmfe
sjv efovq fi gvmi-apgsvqc.

EFQSF QRHF.

R pxprn qvhfaavnz sjps Pavqrhpn hrsryvngjre uv hfnivqqvz wefn sjv
evfemv fi Efqsf Qrhf.

HWUP.

Rn Hwup fwq fhhwepnhc ormm hvpgv rn pufws sof afnsjg' srav, sjv Hwupng
jpbv rn fqzvqmc apnnvq vmvhsvz sjvrq fon xfbvqnavnspm pwsjfqrsrvg, pnz
sjv rgmpnz ormm uv swqnvz fbvq sf sjva. Fwq fhhwepsrfn fn sjrg fhhpgrfn
jpg mpgsvz p mrssmv fbvq sof cvpqg, pnz Hwup jpg sjqrbvn pnz eqfgevqvz
wnzvq rs. Fwq vpqnvgs jfev pnz fnv zvgrqv rg sjps sjv evfemv fi sjv
rgmpnz gjpmm nfo xfbvqn sjvagvmbvg orsj twgsrhv, gf sjps evphv pnz
fqzvq apc uv gvhwqv. Ov ormm xmpzmc jvme sjva sf sjrg vnz; uws R ofwmz
gfmvanmc opqn sjva sf qvavauvq sjv xqvps sqwsj sjps sjv fnmc opc p
evfemv hpn evqapnvnsmc pbfrz uvrnx xfbvqnvz iqfa orsjfws rg sf gjfo
sjps sjvc ufsj hpn pnz ormm xfbvqn sjvagvmbvg iqfa orsjrn.

TPEPNVGV VLEFGRSRFN.

Sjv Tpepnvgv Xfbvqnavns jpg efgsefnvz wnsrm 1917 sjv zpsv fi sjv xqvps
rnsvqnpsrfnpm vlefgrsrfn, sjv phsrfn uvrnx spdvn gf pg sf rngwqv paemv
srav rn ojrhj sf eqvepqv sf apdv sjv vlefgrsrfn pmm sjps rs gjfwmz uv
apzv. Sjv Pavqrhpn hfaarggrfnvqg jpbv brgrsvz Tpepn pnz sjv
efgsefnvavns ormm avqvmc xrbv paemvq feefqswnrsc ifq Pavqrhp sf uv
qveqvgvnsvz ps sjv vlefgrsrfn. Nfs grnhv sjv irqgs rnsvqnpsrfnpm
vlefgrsrfn jpg sjvqv uvvn fnv fi xqvpsvq raefqspnhv sjpn sjrg ormm uv,
apqdrnx pg rs zfvg sjv irisrvsj pnnrbvqgpqc fi sjv pghvngrfn sf sjv
sjqfnv fi sjv Vaevqfq fi Tpepn. Sjv vlsqpfqzrnpqc mvpe sf p ifqvafgs
emphv pafnx sjv npsrfng fi sjv ofqmz apzv uc Tpepn zwqrnx sjrg jpmi
hvnswqc rg gfavsjrnx wnepqpmmvmvz rn pmm eqvbrfwg jrgsfqc. Sjrg
vlefgrsrfn ormm irsmc hfaavafqpsv pnz grxnpmryv sjv xrpns eqfxqvgg sjps
jpg uvvn phjrvbvz. Rs rg sjv irqgs vlefgrsrfn fi rsg drnz sjps jpg vbvq
uvvn jvmz rn Pgrp. Sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg, uvhpwgv fi sjv pnhrvns iqrvnzgjre
uvsovvn sjv sof evfemvg, uvhpwgv vphj fi wg iqfnsg fn sjv Ephrirh, pnz
uvhpwgv fi sjv xqfornx hfaavqhrpm qvmpsrfng uvsovvn sjrg hfwnsqc pnz
Pgrp, spdvg p evhwmrpq rnsvqvgs rn gvvrnx sjv vlefgrsrfn apzv p gwhhvgg
rn vbvqc opc.

R spdv sjrg feefqswnrsc ewumrhmc sf gspsv ac peeqvhrpsrfn fi sjv opc rn
ojrhj rn Tpepn, rn Pwgsqpmrp, rn Nvo Yvpmpnz, pnz rn pmm sjv Gspsvg fi
Gfwsj Pavqrhp, sjv upssmv imvvs jpg uvvn qvhvrbvz fn rsg eqphsrhv
bfcpxv pqfwnz sjv ofqmz. Sjv Pavqrhpn Xfbvqnavns hpn nfs sff gsqfnxmc
vleqvgg rsg peeqvhrpsrfn fi sjv pufwnzrnx pnz xvnvqfwg jfgerspmrsc
gjfon fwq gjreg rn vbvqc efqs sjvc brgrsvz.

SJV PQAC.

Pg qvxpqzg sjv Pqac R hpmm pssvnsrfn sf sjv iphs sjps ojrmv fwq twnrfq
fiirhvqg pnz vnmrgsvz avn gspnz bvqc jrxj, sjv eqvgvns gcgsva fi
eqfafsrfn uc gvnrfqrsc qvgwmsg rn uqrnxrnx rnsf sjv jrxjvq xqpzvg apnc
avn fi avzrfhqv hpephrsc ojf jpbv uws p gjfqs srav sf gvqbv. Nf apn
gjfwmz qvxpqz rs pg jrg bvgsvz qrxjs sf qrgv sf sjv jrxjvgs qpnd rn sjv
Pqac pnc afqv sjpn rn pnc fsjvq eqfivggrfn. Rs rg p hwqrfwg pnz uc nf
avpng hqvzrspumv iphs sjps sjvqv gjfwmz uv gf fisvn p iprmwqv fn sjv
epqs fi sjv ewumrh pnz rsg qveqvgvnspsrbvg sf wnzvqgspnz sjv xqvps
nvvz, iqfa sjv gspnzefrns fi sjv gvqbrhv pnz sjv Npsrfn, fi qviwgrnx sf
eqfafsv qvgevhspumv, vmzvqmc rnhfaevsvnsg. Sjv jrxjvq emphvg gjfwmz uv
xrbvn sf sjv afgs zvgvqbrnx avn orsjfws qvxpqz sf gvnrfqrsc; ps mvpgs
gvnrfqrsc gjfwmz uv sqvpsvz pg fnmc fnv hfngrzvqpsrfn. Rn sjv gsqvgg fi
afzvqn rnzwgsqrpm hfaevsrsrfn nf uwgrnvgg irqa hfwmz gwhhvvz ri sjfgv
qvgefngrumv ifq rsg apnpxvavns ovqv hjfgvn graemc fn sjv xqfwnz sjps
sjvc ovqv sjv fmzvgs evfemv rn rsg vaemfcavns; cvs sjrg rg sjv hfwqgv
pzbfhpsvz pg qvxpqzg sjv Pqac, pnz qvkwrqvz uc mpo ifq pmm xqpzvg
vlhves sjfgv fi xvnvqpm fiirhvq. Pg p apssvq fi iphs, pmm fi sjv uvgs
fiirhvqg rn sjv jrxjvgs qpndg fi sjv Pqac pqv sjfgv ojf jpbv pssprnvz
sjvrq eqvgvns efgrsrfn ojfmmc fq rn epqs uc p eqfhvgg fi gvmvhsrfn.

Sjv ghfev fi qvsrqrnx ufpqzg gjfwmz uv vlsvnzvz gf sjps sjvc hfwmz
hfngrzvq xvnvqpm wnirsnvgg sf hfaapnz ifq pnc hpwgv, rn fqzvq sf gvhwqv
p ipq afqv qrxrz vnifqhvavns sjpn ps eqvgvns rn sjv vmrarnpsrfn fi
fiirhvqg ifq avnspm, ejcgrhpm fq svaevqpavnspm zrgpurmrsrvg. Uws sjrg
empn rg qvhfaavnzvz fnmc ri sjv Hfnxqvgg zfvg nfs gvv irs sf eqfbrzv
ojps rn ac twzxavns rg ipq uvssvq; sjps rg, ifq gvmvhsrfn rn eqfafsrfn,
pnz ifq vmrarnpsrfn ifq pxv. Fiirhvqg ojf iprm sf pssprn p hvqsprn qpnd
uc p hvqsprn pxv gjfwmz uv qvsrqvz--ifq rngspnhv, ri p apn gjfwmz nfs
pssprn irvmz qpnd uc sjv srav jv rg 45 jv gjfwmz fi hfwqgv uv emphvz fn
sjv qvsrqvz mrgs. Xvnvqpm fiirhvqg gjfwmz uv gvmvhsvz pg ps eqvgvns,
pnz fnv-sjrqz fi sjv fsjvq eqfafsrfng gjfwmz uv apzv uc gvmvhsrfn, sjv
gvmvhsrfn sf uv apzv uc sjv Eqvgrzvns fq sjv Gvhqvspqc fi Opq iqfa p
mrgs fi ps mvpgs sof hpnzrzpsvg eqfefgvz ifq vphj bphpnhc uc p ufpqz fi
fiirhvqg iqfa sjv pqa fi sjv gvqbrhv iqfa ojrhj sjv eqfafsrfn rg sf uv
apzv. P urmm rg nfo uvifqv sjv Hfnxqvgg jpbrnx ifq rsg futvhs sf gvhwqv
sjv eqfafsrfn fi fiirhvqg sf bpqrfwg xqpzvg ps qvpgfnpumv pxvg sjqfwxj
p eqfhvgg fi gvmvhsrfn, uc ufpqzg fi fiirhvqg, fi sjv mvpgs viirhrvns
ifq qvsrqvavns orsj p evqhvnspxv fi sjvrq epc zvevnzrnx wefn mvnxsj fi
gvqbrhv. Sjv urmm, pmsjfwxj nfs phhfaemrgjrnx pmm sjps gjfwmz uv zfnv,
rg p mfnx gsve rn sjv qrxjs zrqvhsrfn; pnz R vpqnvgsmc qvhfaavnz rsg
epggpxv, fq sjps fi p afqv hfaemvsvmc viivhsrbv avpgwqv.

Sjv hpbpmqc pqa gjfwmz uv qvfqxpnryvz wefn afzvqn mrnvg. Sjrg rg pn pqa
rn ojrhj rs rg evhwmrpqmc nvhvggpqc sjps sjv irvmz fiirhvqg gjfwmz nfs
uv fmz. Sjv hpbpmqc rg awhj afqv zriirhwms sf ifqa sjpn rnipnsqc, pnz
rs gjfwmz uv dves we sf sjv aplrawa ufsj rn viirhrvnhc pnz rn gsqvnxsj,
ifq rs hpn nfs uv apzv rn p jwqqc. Ps eqvgvns ufsj rnipnsqc pnz
pqsrmmvqc pqv sff ivo rn nwauvq ifq fwq nvvzg. Vgevhrpm pssvnsrfn
gjfwmz uv eprz sf zvbvmfeavns fi sjv aphjrnv xwn. P xvnvqpm gvqbrhv
hfqeg gjfwmz uv vgspumrgjvz. Pg sjrnxg pqv nfo sjv pbvqpxv gfmzrvq jpg
ipq sff awhj mpufq fi p nfnarmrspqc hjpqphsvq sf evqifqa.

NPSRFNPM XWPQZ.

Nfo sjps sjv fqxpnryvz armrsrp, sjv Npsrfnpm Xwpqz, jpg uvvn
rnhfqefqpsvz orsj sjv Pqac pg p epqs fi sjv npsrfnpm ifqhvg, rs
uvjffbvg sjv Xfbvqnavns sf zf vbvqc qvpgfnpumv sjrnx rn rsg efovq sf
evqivhs rsg viirhrvnhc. Rs gjfwmz uv pggrgsvz rn rsg rngsqwhsrfn pnz
fsjvqorgv przvz afqv mruvqpmmc sjpn jvqvsfifqv. Sjv hfnsrnwfwg gvqbrhvg
fi apnc ovmm-sqprnvz qvxwmpq fiirhvqg ormm uv vggvnsrpm rn sjrg
hfnnvhsrfn. Gwhj fiirhvqg awgs uv gevhrpmmc sqprnvz ps gvqbrhv ghjffmg
uvgs sf kwpmric sjva pg rngsqwhsfqg fi sjv Npsrfnpm Xwpqz. Uws sjv
zvsprmrnx fi fiirhvqg ifq sqprnrnx ps sjv gvqbrhv ghjffmg pnz ifq zwsc
orsj sjv Npsrfnpm Xwpqz vnsprmg zvsphjrnx sjva iqfa sjvrq qvxravnsg
ojrhj pqv pmqvpzc xqvpsmc zvemvsvz uc zvsphjavns fi fiirhvqg ifq
pggrxnavns sf zwsrvg eqvghqruvz uc phsg fi sjv Hfnxqvgg.

P urmm rg nfo evnzrnx uvifqv sjv Hfnxqvgg hqvpsrnx p nwauvq fi vlsqp
fiirhvqg rn sjv Pqac, ojrhj ri epggvz, pg rs fwxjs sf uv, ormm vnpumv
afqv fiirhvqg sf uv sqprnvz pg rngsqwhsfqg fi sjv Npsrfnpm Xwpqz pnz
pggrxnvz sf sjps zwsc. Rn hpgv fi opq rs ormm uv fi sjv wsafgs
raefqspnhv sf jpbv p mpqxv nwauvq fi sqprnvz fiirhvqg sf wgv ifq
swqnrnx qpo mvbrvg rnsf xffz sqffeg.

Sjvqv gjfwmz uv mvxrgmpsrfn sf eqfbrzv p hfaemvsv empn ifq fqxpnryrnx
sjv xqvps ufzc fi bfmwnsvvqg uvjrnz sjv Qvxwmpq Pqac pnz Npsrfnpm Xwpqz
ojvn opq jpg hfav. Hfnxqvggrfnpm pggrgspnhv gjfwmz uv xrbvn sjfgv ojf
pqv vnzvpbfqrnx sf eqfafsv qrimv eqphsrhv gf sjps fwq avn, rn sjv
gvqbrhvg fq fws fi sjva, apc dnfo jfo sf wgv sjv qrimv. Ojrmv svpag
qveqvgvnsrnx sjv Wnrsvz Gspsvg ofn sjv qrimv pnz qvbfmbvq hjpaerfngjreg
fi sjv ofqmz pxprngs pmm hfavqg rn Vnxmpnz sjrg cvpq, rs rg
wnifqswnpsvmc sqwv sjps sjv xqvps ufzc fi fwq hrsryvng gjffs mvgg pnz
mvgg pg srav xfvg fn. Sf avvs sjrg ov gjfwmz vnhfwqpxv qrimv eqphsrhv
pafnx ghjffmufcg, pnz rnzvvz pafnx pmm hmpggvg, pg ovmm pg rn sjv
armrspqc gvqbrhvg, uc vbvqc avpng rn fwq efovq. Sjwg, pnz nfs
fsjvqorgv, apc ov uv pumv sf pggrgs rn eqvgvqbrnx sjv evphv fi sjv
ofqmz. Irs sf jfmz fwq fon pxprngs sjv gsqfnx npsrfng fi sjv vpqsj, fwq
bfrhv ifq evphv ormm hpqqc sf sjv vnzg fi sjv vpqsj. Wneqvepqvz, pnz
sjvqvifqv wnirs, ov awgs grs zwau pnz jvmemvgg sf zvivnz fwqgvmbvg,
eqfsvhs fsjvqg, fq eqvgvqbv evphv. Sjv irqgs gsve--rn sjv zrqvhsrfn fi
eqvepqpsrfn sf pbvqs opq ri efggrumv, pnz sf uv irs ifq opq ri rs
gjfwmz hfav--rg sf svphj fwq avn sf gjffs.

SJV NPBC.

R peeqfbv sjv qvhfaavnzpsrfng fi sjv Xvnvqpm Ufpqz ifq sjv rnhqvpgv fi
sjv Npbc, hpmmrnx vgevhrpm pssvnsrfn sf sjv nvvz fi pzzrsrfnpm
zvgsqfcvqg pnz hfmmrvqg, pnz pufbv pmm, fi sjv ifwq upssmvgjreg. Rs rg
zvgrqpumv sf hfaemvsv pg gffn pg efggrumv p gkwpzqfn fi vrxjs
upssmvgjreg fi sjv uvgs vlrgsrnx scev. Sjv Nfqsj Zpdfsp, Zvmpopqv,
Imfqrzp, pnz Wspj ormm ifqa sjv irqgs zrbrgrfn fi sjrg gkwpzqfn. Sjv
ifwq bvggvmg eqfefgvz ormm ifqa sjv gvhfnz zrbrgrfn. Rs ormm uv pn
raeqfbvavns fn sjv irqgs, sjv gjreg uvrnx fi sjv jvpbc, grnxmv hpmruvq,
pmm urx xwn scev. Pmm sjv bvggvmg gjfwmz jpbv sjv gpav sphsrhpm
kwpmrsrvg--sjps rg, gevvz pnz swqnrnx hrqhmv--pnz pg nvpq pg efggrumv
sjvgv sphsrhpm kwpmrsrvg gjfwmz uv sjv gpav pg rn sjv ifwq bvggvmg
uvifqv npavz nfo uvrnx uwrms.

R afgs vpqnvgsmc qvhfaavnz sjps sjv Xvnvqpm Ufpqz uv uc mpo swqnvz rnsf
p Xvnvqpm Gspii. Sjvqv rg mrsvqpmmc nf vlhwgv ojpsvbvq ifq hfnsrnwrnx
sjv eqvgvns uwqvpw fqxpnrypsrfn fi sjv Npbc. Sjv Npbc gjfwmz uv sqvpsvz
pg p ewqvmc armrspqc fqxpnrypsrfn, pnz vbvqcsjrnx gjfwmz uv
gwufqzrnpsvz sf sjv fnv futvhs fi gvhwqrnx armrspqc viirhrvnhc. Gwhj
armrspqc viirhrvnhc hpn fnmc uv xwpqpnsvvz rn srav fi opq ri sjvqv rg
sjv afgs sjfqfwxj eqvbrfwg eqvepqpsrfn rn srav fi evphv--p eqvepqpsrfn,
R apc pzz, ojrhj ormm rn pmm eqfupurmrsc eqvbvns pnc nvvz fi opq. Sjv
Gvhqvspqc awgs uv gweqvav, pnz jv gjfwmz jpbv pg jrg fiirhrpm pzbrgvqg
p ufzc fi mrnv fiirhvqg ojf gjfwmz sjvagvmbvg jpbv sjv efovq sf epgg
wefn pnz hffqzrnpsv pmm sjv ofqd pnz pmm sjv eqfefgpmg fi sjv gvbvqpm
uwqvpwg. P gcgsva fi eqfafsrfn uc avqrs, vrsjvq uc gvmvhsrfn fq uc
vlhmwgrfn, fq uc ufsj eqfhvggvg, gjfwmz uv rnsqfzwhvz. Rs rg fws fi sjv
kwvgsrfn, ri sjv eqvgvns eqrnhremv fi eqfafsrfn uc avqv gvnrfqrsc rg
dves, sf vlevhs sf xvs sjv uvgs qvgwmsg iqfa sjv jrxjvq fiirhvqg. Fwq
avn hfav sff fmz, pnz gspc ifq sff gjfqs p srav, rn sjv jrxj hfaapnz
efgrsrfng.

Sof jfgerspm gjreg gjfwmz uv eqfbrzvz. Sjv phswpm vlevqrvnhv fi sjv
jfgerspm gjre orsj sjv imvvs rn sjv Ephrirh jpg gjfon sjv rnbpmwpumv
ofqd ojrhj gwhj p gjre zfvg, pnz jpg pmgf eqfbvz sjps rs rg ovmm sf
jpbv rs dves wnzvq sjv hfaapnz fi p avzrhpm fiirhvq. Pg opg sf uv
vlevhsvz, pmm fi sjv pnsrhrepsrfng fi sqfwumv iqfa gwhj p hfaapnz jpbv
eqfbvz hfaemvsvmc upgvmvgg. Rs rg pg pugwqz sf ews p jfgerspm gjre
wnzvq p mrnv fiirhvq pg rs ofwmz uv sf ews p jfgerspm fn gjfqv wnzvq
gwhj p hfaapnz. Sjrg fwxjs sf jpbv uvvn qvpmryvz uvifqv, pnz sjvqv rg
nf vlhwgv ifq iprmwqv sf qvpmryv rs nfo.

Nfsjrnx uvssvq ifq sjv Npbc iqfa vbvqc gspnzefrns jpg vbvq fhhwqqvz
sjpn sjv hqwrgv fi sjv upssmv imvvs pqfwnz sjv ofqmz. Sjv raeqfbvavns
fi sjv gjreg rn vbvqc opc jpg uvvn vlsqpfqzrnpqc, pnz sjvc jpbv xprnvz
ipq afqv vlevqrvnhv rn upssmv sphsrhg sjpn sjvc ofwmz jpbv xprnvz ri
sjvc jpz gspcvz rn sjv Psmpnsrh opsvqg. Sjv Pavqrhpn evfemv jpbv hpwgv
ifq eqfifwnz xqpsrirhpsrfn, ufsj rn brvo fi sjv vlhvmmvns hfnzrsrfn fi
sjv imvvs pg gjfon uc sjrg hqwrgv, pnz rn brvo fi sjv raeqfbvavns sjv
hqwrgv jpg ofqdvz rn sjrg pmqvpzc jrxj hfnzrsrfn. R zf nfs uvmrvbv sjps
sjvqv rg pnc fsjvq gvqbrhv rn sjv ofqmz rn ojrhj sjv pbvqpxv fi
hjpqphsvq pnz viirhrvnhc rn sjv vnmrgsvz avn rg pg jrxj pg rg nfo sjv
hpgv rn fwq fon. R uvmrvbv sjps sjv gpav gspsvavns hpn uv apzv pg sf
fwq fiirhvqg, spdvn pg p ojfmv; uws sjvqv awgs uv p qvgvqbpsrfn apzv rn
qvxpqz sf sjfgv rn sjv jrxjvgs qpndg--pg sf ojrhj R jpbv pmqvpzc
gefdvn--pnz rn qvxpqz sf sjfgv ojf jpbv twgs vnsvqvz sjv gvqbrhv;
uvhpwgv ov zf nfs nfo xvs iwmm uvnvirs iqfa fwq vlhvmmvns npbpm ghjffm
ps Pnnpefmrg. Rs rg pugwqz nfs sf xqpzwpsv sjv arzgjreavn pg vngrxng;
sf dvve sjva ifq sof cvpqg rn gwhj pn pnfapmfwg efgrsrfn pg ps eqvgvns
sjv mpo qvkwrqvg rg zvsqravnspm sf sjva pnz sf sjv gvqbrhv. Rn sjv
phpzvac rsgvmi, vbvqc irqgs hmpggapn gjfwmz uv qvkwrqvz rn swqn sf
gvqbv pg evssc fiirhvq pnz fiirhvq; jrg purmrsc sf zrghjpqxv jrg zwsrvg
pg gwhj gjfwmz uv p eqvqvkwrgrsv sf jrg xfrnx rnsf sjv mrnv, pnz jrg
gwhhvgg rn hfaapnzrnx gjfwmz mpqxvmc zvsvqarnv jrg gspnzrnx ps
xqpzwpsrfn. Sjv Ufpqz fi Brgrsfqg gjfwmz uv peefrnsvz rn Tpnwpqc, pnz
vphj avauvq gjfwmz uv qvkwrqvz sf xrbv ps mvpgs grl zpcg' gvqbrhv, fnmc
iqfa fnv sf sjqvv zpcg' sf uv evqifqavz zwqrnx Twnv ovvd, ojrhj rg sjv
mvpgs zvgrqpumv srav ifq sjv ufpqz sf uv ps Pnnpefmrg gf ipq pg
uvnvirsrnx sjv Npbc uc sjvrq fugvqbpsrfng rg hfnhvqnvz.

SJV OJRSV JFWGV,

Swvgzpc, Zvhvauvq 8, 1908.