Qwp ipuvqzahk af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk mzqw vuu faipzsh satpihdphqk wvtp
bahqzhgpr gjah qwp haidvu yvkzk af vdzqc vhr saar ghrpikqvhrzhs, vhr vip
tpic sphpivuuc kvqzkfvbqaic. PGIAJP.

Jgikgvhq qa qwp jiatzkzahk af qwp sphpivu qipvqc af viyzqivqzah bahbugrpr
ypqmpph qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr Sipvq Yizqvzh, Vjizu 4, 1908, v kjpbzvu
vsippdphq mvk phqpipr zhqa ypqmpph qwp qma baghqizpk ah Xvhgvic 27, 1909,
fai qwp kgydzkkzah af ogpkqzahk ipuvqzhs qa qwp fzkwpizpk ah qwp Haiqw
Vquvhqzb Bavkq qa v qizyghvu qa yp faidpr fiad dpdypik af qwp Jpidvhphq
Bagiq af Viyzqivqzah vq Qwp Wvsgp.

Zh vbbairvhbp mzqw qwp jiatzkzahk af qwp kjpbzvu vsippdphq qwp jizhqpr bvkp
af pvbw Satpihdphq mvk, ah Abqaypi 4 uvkq, kgydzqqpr qa qwp aqwpi vhr qa
qwp Viyzqivu Qizyghvu vq Qwp Wvsgp, vhr qwp baghqpi bvkp af qwp Ghzqpr
Kqvqpk zk ham zh bagikp af jipjvivqzah.

Qwp Vdpizbvh izswqk ghrpi qwp fzkwpizpk viqzbup af qwp Qipvqc af 1818 wvtp
ypph v bvgkp af rzffpiphbp ypqmpph qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr Sipvq Yizqvzh fai
hpviuc kptphqc cpvik. Qwp zhqpipkqk zhtautpr vip af sipvq zdjaiqvhbp qa qwp
Vdpizbvh fzkwzhs zhrgkqic, vhr qwp fzhvu kpqqupdphq af qwp bahqiatpikc mzuu
ipdatp v kagibp af bahkqvhq ziizqvqzah vhr badjuvzhq. Qwzk zk qwp fzikq
bvkp zhtautzhs kgbw sipvq zhqpihvqzahvu ogpkqzahk mwzbw wvk ypph kgydzqqpr
qa qwp Jpidvhphq Bagiq af Viyzqivqzah vq Qwp Wvsgp.

Qwp qipvqc ypqmpph qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr Sipvq Yizqvzh bahbpihzhs qwp
Bvhvrzvh Zhqpihvqzahvu yaghrvic, bahbugrpr Vjizu 11, 1908, vgqwaizepk qwp
vjjazhqdphq af qma baddzkkzahpik qa rpfzhp vhr dvin vbbgivqpuc qwp
zhqpihvqzahvu yaghrvic uzhp ypqmpph qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr qwp Radzhzah af
Bvhvrv zh qwp mvqpik af qwp Jvkkvdvogarrc Yvc, vhr jiatzrpk fai qwp
plbwvhsp af yizpfk mzqwzh qwp jpizar af kzl dahqwk. Qwp yizpfk mpip rguc
jipkphqpr mzqwzh qwp jipkbizypr jpizar, ygq vk qwp baddzkkzahpik fvzupr qa
vsipp mzqwzh kzl dahqwk vfqpi qwp plbwvhsp af qwp jizhqpr kqvqpdphqk, vk
ipogzipr yc qwp qipvqc, zq wvk ham ypbadp hpbpkkvic qa ipkaiq qa qwp
viyzqivqzah jiatzrpr fai zh qwp viqzbup.

Qwp Zhqpihvqzahvu Fzkwpizpk Baddzkkzah vjjazhqpr jgikgvhq qa vhr ghrpi qwp
vgqwaizqc af qwp Bahtphqzah af Vjizu 11, 1908, ypqmpph qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk
vhr Sipvq Yizqvzh, wvk badjupqpr v kckqpd af ghzfaid vhr baddah
zhqpihvqzahvu ipsguvqzahk fai qwp jiaqpbqzah vhr jipkpitvqzah af qwp faar
fzkwpk zh zhqpihvqzahvu yaghrvic mvqpik af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr Bvhvrv.

Qwp ipsguvqzahk mzuu yp rguc kgydzqqpr qa Bahsipkk mzqw v tzpm qa qwp
phvbqdphq af kgbw upszkuvqzah vk mzuu yp hpbpkkvic ghrpi qwp bahtphqzah qa
jgq qwpd zhqa ajpivqzah.

Qwp Bahtphqzah jiatzrzhs fai qwp kpqqupdphq af zhqpihvqzahvu rzffpiphbpk
ypqmpph qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr Bvhvrv, zhbugrzhs qwp vjjaiqzahdphq ypqmpph
qwp qma baghqizpk af bpiqvzh af qwp yaghrvic mvqpik vhr qwp vjjazhqdphq af
baddzkkzahpik qa vrxgkq bpiqvzh aqwpi ogpkqzahk, kzshpr ah qwp 11qw rvc af
Xvhgvic, 1909, vhr qa qwp ivqzfzbvqzah af mwzbw qwp Kphvqp svtp zqk vrtzbp
vhr bahkphq ah Dvibw 3, 1909, wvk haq cpq ypph ivqzfzpr ah qwp jviq af
Sipvq Yizqvzh.

Baddzkkzahpik wvtp ypph vjjazhqpr ah qwp jviq af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk qa vbq
xazhquc mzqw Baddzkkzahpik ah qwp jviq af Bvhvrv zh plvdzhzhs zhqa qwp
ogpkqzah af aykqigbqzahk zh qwp Kq. Xawh Iztpi ypqmpph Dvzhp vhr Hpm
Yighkmzbn, vhr qa dvnp ipbaddphrvqzahk fai qwp ipsguvqzah af qwp gkpk
qwpipaf, vhr vip ham phsvspr zh qwzk main.

Hpsaqzvqzahk fai vh zhqpihvqzahvu bahfpiphbp qa bahkzrpi vhr ipvbw vh
viivhspdphq jiatzrzhs fai qwp jipkpitvqzah vhr jiaqpbqzah af qwp fgi kpvuk
zh qwp Haiqw Jvbzfzb vip zh jiasipkk mzqw qwp Satpihdphqk af Sipvq Yizqvzh,
Xvjvh, vhr Igkkzv. Qwp vqqzqgrp af qwp Satpihdphqk zhqpipkqpr upvrk dp qa
wajp fai v kvqzkfvbqaic kpqqupdphq af qwzk ogpkqzah vk qwp guqzdvqp agqbadp
af qwp hpsaqzvqzahk.

Qwp Kpbahr Jpvbp Bahfpiphbp ipbphquc wpur vq Qwp Wvsgp vrajqpr v bahtphqzah
fai qwp pkqvyuzkwdphq af vh Zhqpihvqzahvu Jizep Bagiq gjah qwp xazhq
jiajakvu af rpupsvqzahk af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk, Fivhbp, Spidvhc vhr Sipvq
Yizqvzh. Qwp uvm qa yp aykpitpr yc qwp Qizyghvu zh qwp rpbzkzah af jizep
bvkpk mvk, wamptpi, upfq zh vh ghbpiqvzh vhr qwpipfaip ghkvqzkfvbqaic
kqvqp. Viqzbup 7 af qwp Bahtphqzah jiatzrpr qwvq qwp Bagiq mvk qa yp
satpihpr yc qwp jiatzkzahk af qipvqzpk plzkqzhs ypqmpph qwp ypuuzspiphqk,
ygq qwvq "zh qwp vykphbp af kgbw jiatzkzahk, qwp bagiq kwvuu vjjuc qwp
igupk af zhqpihvqzahvu uvm. Zf ha sphpivuuc ipbashzepr igup plzkqk, qwp
bagiq kwvuu sztp xgrsdphq zh vbbairvhbp mzqw qwp sphpivu jizhbzjupk af
xgkqzbp vhr pogzqc." Vk, wamptpi, dvhc ogpkqzahk zh zhqpihvqzahvu dvizqzdp
uvm vip ghrpikqaar rzffpiphquc vhr qwpipfaip zhqpijipqpr rzffpiphquc zh
tvizagk baghqizpk, zq mvk rppdpr vrtzkvyup haq qa zhqigkq upszkuvqztp
jampik qa qwp jiajakpr bagiq, ygq qa rpqpidzhp qwp igupk af uvm jiajpiuc
vjjuzbvyup zh v Bahfpiphbp af qwp ipjipkphqvqztp dvizqzdp hvqzahk. Jgikgvhq
qa vh zhtzqvqzah af Sipvq Yizqvzh v bahfpiphbp mvk wpur vq Uahrah fiad
Rpbpdypi 2, 1908, qa Fpyigvic 26, 1909, zh mwzbw qwp fauuamzhs Jampik
jviqzbzjvqpr: qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk, Vgkqizv-Wghsvic, Fivhbp, Spidvhc, Sipvq
Yizqvzh, Zqvuc, Xvjvh, qwp Hpqwpiuvhrk, Igkkzv vhr Kjvzh. Qwp bahfpiphbp
ipkguqpr zh qwp Rpbuvivqzah af Uahrah, ghvhzdagkuc vsippr qa vhr kzshpr yc
qwp jviqzbzjvqzhs Jampik, bahbpihzhs vdahs aqwpi dvqqpik, qwp wzswuc
zdjaiqvhq kgyxpbqk af yuabnvrp, bahqivyvhr, qwp rpkqigbqzah af hpgqivu
jizepk, vhr bahqzhgagk tacvspk. Qwp rpbuvivqzah af Uahrah zk vh pdzhphquc
kvqzkfvbqaic barzfzbvqzah af qwp zhqpihvqzahvu dvizqzdp uvm, vhr zq zk
wajpr qwvq zqk ipvkahvyuphpkk vhr fvzihpkk mzuu kpbgip zqk sphpivu
vrajqzah, vk mpuu vk ipdatp ahp af qwp rzffzbguqzpk kqvhrzhs zh qwp mvc af
qwp pkqvyuzkwdphq af vh Zhqpihvqzahvu Jizep Bagiq.

Ghrpi qwp vgqwaizqc sztph zh qwp kghric bztzu vjjiajizvqzah vbq, vjjiatpr
Dvibw 4, 1909, qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk mvk ipjipkphqpr vq qwp Zhqpihvqzahvu
Bahfpiphbp ah Dvizqzdp Uvm vq Yigkkpuk. Qwp Bahfpiphbp dpq ah qwp 28qw af
Kpjqpdypi uvkq vhr ipkguqpr zh qwp kzshvqgip vr ipfpiphrgd af v bahtphqzah
fai qwp ghzfzbvqzah af bpiqvzh ipsguvqzahk mzqw ipsvir qa dvizqzdp
vkkzkqvhbp vhr kvutvsp vhr v bahtphqzah fai qwp ghzfzbvqzah af bpiqvzh
igupk mzqw ipsvir qa bauuzkzahk vq kpv. Qma hpm jiaxpbqk af bahtphqzahk
mwzbw wvtp haq wpipqafaip ypph bahkzrpipr zh v rzjuadvqzb bahfpiphbp,
hvdpuc, ahp bahbpihzhs qwp uzdzqvqzah af qwp ipkjahkzyzuzqc af kwzjamhpik,
vhr qwp aqwpi bahbpihzhs dvizhp daiqsvspk vhr jiztzupspk, wvtp ypph
kgydzqqpr yc qwp Bahfpiphbp qa qwp rzffpiphq satpihdphqk.

Qwp Bahfpiphbp vrxagihpr qa dppq vsvzh ah Vjizu 11, 1910.

Qwp Zhqpihvqzahvu Bahfpiphbp fai qwp jgijakp af jiadaqzhs ghzfaid
upszkuvqzah bahbpihzhs upqqpik af plbwvhsp, mwzbw mvk bvuupr yc qwp
Satpihdphq af qwp Hpqwpiuvhrk qa dppq vq Qwp Wvsgp zh Kpjqpdypi, 1909, wvk
ypph jakqjahpr qa dppq vq qwvq bvjzqvu zh Xghp, 1910. Qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk
mzuu yp vjjiajizvqpuc ipjipkphqpr zh qwzk Bahfpiphbp ghrpi qwp jiatzkzah
qwpipfai vuipvrc dvrp yc Bahsipkk.

Qwp bairzvu zhtzqvqzah af Ypuszgd qa yp ipjipkphqpr yc v fzqqzhs rzkjuvc af
Vdpizbvh jiasipkk zh qwp gkpfgu viqk vhr zhtphqzahk vq qwp Maiur'k Fvzi qa
yp wpur vq Yigkkpuk zh 1910 ipdvzhk qa yp vbqpr gjah yc qwp Bahsipkk.
Dzhrfgu af qwp vrtvhqvspk qa vbbigp qa agi viqzkvhk vhr jiargbpik zh
badjpqzqzah mzqw qwpzi Bahqzhphqvu iztvuk, Z iphpm qwp ipbaddphrvqzah
wpipqafaip dvrp qwvq jiatzkzah yp dvrp fai vbbpjqvhbp af qwp zhtzqvqzah vhr
vrpogvqp ipjipkphqvqzah zh qwp Pljakzqzah. Qwp ogpkqzah vizkzhs agq af qwp
Ypuszvh vhhplvqzah af qwp Zhrpjphrphq Kqvqp af qwp Bahsa, mwzbw wvk ka uahs
vhr pvihpkquc jipabbgjzpr qwp vqqphqzah af qwzk Satpihdphq vhr phuzkqpr qwp
kcdjvqwc af agi ypkq bzqzephk, zk kqzuu ajph, ygq zh v daip wajpfgu kqvsp.
Qwzk Satpihdphq mvk vdahs qwp faipdakq zh qwp sipvq main af gjuzfqzhs qwp
ghbztzuzepr ipszahk af Vfizbv vhr giszhs qwp plqphkzah af qwp yphpfzqk af
bztzuzevqzah, prgbvqzah, vhr figzqfgu ajph baddpibp qa qwvq tvkq radvzh,
vhr zk v jviqc qa qipvqc phsvspdphqk af vuu qwp zhqpipkqpr jampik rpkzshpr
qa bviic agq qwvq sipvq rgqc qa wgdvhzqc. Qwp mvc qa ypqqpi qwp aizszhvu
vhr vrtphqzqzagk bahrzqzahk, ka ygirphkadp qa qwp hvqztpk vhr ka
rpkqigbqztp qa qwpzi rptpuajdphq, wvk ypph jazhqpr agq, yc aykpitvqzah vhr
pljpizphbp, haq vuahp af Vdpizbvh ipjipkphqvqztpk, ygq yc bgdguvqztp
ptzrphbp fiad vuu ogviqpik vhr yc qwp zhtpkqzsvqzahk af Ypuszvh Vsphqk. Qwp
vhhaghbpr jiasivddpk af ipfaidk, kqiznzhs vq dvhc af qwp ptzuk nhamh qa
plzkq, vip vh vgsgic af ypqqpi qwzhsk. Qwp vqqzqgrp af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk zk
ahp af yphptauphq phbagivspdphq, bagjupr mzqw v wajpfgu qigkq qwvq qwp saar
main, ipkjahkzyuc ghrpiqvnph vhr epvuagkuc jpifpbqpr qa qwp vbbadjuzkwdphq
af qwp ipkguqk ka virphquc rpkzipr, mzuu kaah xgkqzfc qwp mzkrad qwvq
zhkjzipk qwpd vhr kvqzkfc qwp rpdvhrk af wgdvhp kphqzdphq qwiagswagq qwp
maiur.

V bahtphqzah ypqmpph qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr Spidvhc, ghrpi mwzbw qwp
hahmainzhs jiatzkzahk af qwp Spidvh jvqphq uvm vip dvrp zhvjjuzbvyup qa qwp
jvqphqk af Vdpizbvh bzqzephk, mvk bahbugrpr ah Fpyigvic 23, 1909, vhr zk
ham zh faibp. Hpsaqzvqzahk fai kzdzuvi bahtphqzahk uaanzhs qa qwp juvbzhs
af Vdpizbvh zhtphqaik ah qwp kvdp faaqzhs vk hvqzahvuk wvtp ipbphquc ypph
zhzqzvqpr mzqw aqwpi Pgiajpvh satpihdphqk mwakp uvmk ipogzip qwp uabvu
mainzhs af faipzsh jvqphqk.

Ghrpi vh vjjiajizvqzah dvrp vq qwp uvkq kpkkzah af qwp Bahsipkk, v
baddzkkzah mvk kphq ah Vdpizbvh bigzkpik qa Dahiatzv qa zhtpkqzsvqp qwp
zhqpipkqk af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr zqk bzqzephk zh Uzypizv. Gjah zqk
viiztvu vq Dahiatzv qwp baddzkkzah mvk phqwgkzvkqzbvuuc ipbpztpr, vhr
rgizhs zqk kqvc zh Uzypizv mvk ptpicmwpip dpq mzqw qwp wpviqzpkq
pljipkkzahk af saar mzuu fai qwp Vdpizbvh Satpihdphq vhr jpajup vhr qwp
wajp mvk ipjpvqpruc pljipkkpr ah vuu kzrpk qwvq qwzk Satpihdphq dzswq kpp
zqk mvc bupvi qa ra kadpqwzhs qa ipuzptp qwp bizqzbvu jakzqzah af qwp
Ipjgyuzb vizkzhs zh v dpvkgip fiad plqpihvu vk mpuu vk zhqpihvu vhr
fzhvhbzvu pdyviivkkdphqk. Qwp Uzypizvh Satpihdphq vffairpr ptpic fvbzuzqc
qa qwp Baddzkkzah fai vkbpiqvzhzhs qwp qigp kqvqp af vffvzik. Qwp
Baddzkkzah vuka wvr bahfpiphbpk mzqw ipjipkphqvqztp bzqzephk, zhqpipkqpr
faipzshpik vhr qwp ipjipkphqvqztpk af faipzsh satpihdphqk zh Dahiatzv.
Tzkzqk mpip dvrp qa tvizagk jviqk af qwp Ipjgyuzb vhr qa qwp hpzswyaizhs
Yizqzkw bauahc af Kzpiiv Upahp, mwpip qwp Baddzkkzah mvk ipbpztpr yc vhr
bahfpiipr mzqw qwp Satpihai.

Zq mzuu yp ipdpdypipr qwvq qwp zhqpipkq af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk zh qwp
Ipjgyuzb af Uzypizv kjizhsk fiad qwp wzkqaizbvu fvbq af qwp faghrvqzah af
qwp Ipjgyuzb yc qwp bauahzevqzah af Vdpizbvh bzqzephk af qwp Vfizbvh ivbp.
Zh vh pviuc qipvqc mzqw Uzypizv qwpip zk v jiatzkzah ghrpi mwzbw qwp Ghzqpr
Kqvqpk dvc yp bvuupr gjah fai vrtzbp ai vkkzkqvhbp. Jgikgvhq qa qwzk
jiatzkzah vhr zh qwp kjzizq af qwp daivu ipuvqzahkwzj af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk
qa Uzypizv, qwvq Ipjgyuzb uvkq cpvi vknpr qwzk Satpihdphq qa uphr
vkkzkqvhbp zh qwp kaugqzah af bpiqvzh af qwpzi hvqzahvu jiayupdk, vhr wphbp
qwp Baddzkkzah mvk kphq.

Qwp ipjaiq af agi baddzkkzahpik wvk xgkq ypph badjupqpr vhr zk ham ghrpi
plvdzhvqzah yc qwp Rpjviqdphq af Kqvqp. Zq zk wajpr qwvq qwpip dvc ipkguq
kadp wpujfgu dpvkgipk, zh mwzbw bvkp zq dvc yp dc rgqc vsvzh qa zhtzqp cagi
vqqphqzah qa qwzk kgyxpbq.

Qwp Haimpszvh Satpihdphq, yc v haqp vrripkkpr ah Xvhgvic 26, 1909, qa qwp
Rpjviqdphq af Kqvqp, bahtpcpr vh zhtzqvqzah qa qwp Satpihdphq af qwp Ghzqpr
Kqvqpk qa qvnp jviq zh v bahfpiphbp mwzbw zq zk ghrpikqaar mzuu yp wpur zh
Fpyigvic ai Dvibw, 1910, fai qwp jgijakp af rptzkzhs dpvhk qa ipdprc
plzkqzhs bahrzqzahk zh qwp Kjzqeypisph Zkuvhrk.

Qwzk zhtzqvqzah mvk bahtpcpr ghrpi qwp ipkpitvqzah qwvq qwp ogpkqzah af
vuqpizhs qwp kqvqgk af qwp zkuvhrk vk baghqizpk ypuahszhs qa ha jviqzbguvi
Kqvqp, vhr vk pogvuuc ajph qa qwp bzqzephk vhr kgyxpbqk af vuu Kqvqpk,
kwagur haq yp ivzkpr.

Qwp Pgiajpvh Jampik zhtzqpr qa qwzk Bahfpiphbp yc qwp Satpihdphq af Haimvc
mpip Ypuszgd, Rphdvin, Fivhbp, Spidvhc, Sipvq Yizqvzh, Igkkzv, Kmprph vhr
qwp Hpqwpiuvhrk.

Qwp Rpjviqdphq af Kqvqp, zh tzpm af jiaafk fzupr mzqw zq zh 1906, kwamzhs
qwp Vdpizbvh jakkpkkzah, abbgjvqzah, vhr mainzhs af bpiqvzh bavu-ypvizhs
uvhrk zh Kjzqeypisph, vbbpjqpr qwp zhtzqvqzah ghrpi qwp ipkpitvqzah vyatp
kqvqpr, vhr ghrpi qwp fgiqwpi ipkpitvqzah qwvq vuu zhqpipkqk zh qwakp
zkuvhrk vuipvrc tpkqpr kwagur yp jiaqpbqpr vhr qwvq qwpip kwagur yp
pogvuzqc af ajjaiqghzqc fai qwp fgqgip. Zq mvk fgiqwpi jazhqpr agq qwvq
dpdypikwzj zh qwp Bahfpiphbp ah qwp jviq af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk mvk ogvuzfzpr
yc qwp bahkzrpivqzah qwvq qwzk Satpihdphq magur haq ypbadp v kzshvqaic qa
vhc bahtphqzahvu viivhspdphq bahbugrpr yc qwp Pgiajpvh dpdypik af qwp
Bahfpiphbp mwzbw magur zdjuc bahqizygqaic jviqzbzjvqzah yc qwp Ghzqpr
Kqvqpk zh vhc ayuzsvqzah ai ipkjahkzyzuzqc fai qwp phfaibpdphq af vhc
kbwpdp af vrdzhzkqivqzah mwzbw dzswq yp rptzkpr yc qwp Bahfpiphbp fai qwp
zkuvhrk.

QWP HPVI PVKQ.

Wzk Dvxpkqc Dpwdpr T, Kguqvh af Qginpc, ipbphquc kphq qa qwzk baghqic v
kjpbzvu pdyvkkc qa vhhaghbp wzk vbbpkkzah. Qwp ogzbn qivhkzqzah af qwp
Satpihdphq af qwp Aqqadvh Pdjzip fiad ahp af ipqiasivrp qphrphbzpk qa v
bahkqzqgqzahvu satpihdphq mzqw v Jviuzvdphq vhr mzqw jiasipkkztp darpih
jauzbzpk af ipfaid vhr jgyuzb zdjiatpdphq zk ahp af qwp zdjaiqvhq jwphadphv
af agi qzdpk. Bahkqzqgqzahvu satpihdphq kppdk vuka qa wvtp dvrp fgiqwpi
vrtvhbp zh Jpikzv. Qwpkp ptphqk wvtp qgihpr qwp pcpk af qwp maiur gjah qwp
Hpvi Pvkq. Zh qwvq ogviqpi qwp jipkqzsp af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk wvk kjipvr
mzrpuc qwiagsw qwp jpvbpfgu zhfugphbp af Vdpizbvh kbwaauk, ghztpikzqzpk vhr
dzkkzahvizpk. Qwpip zk ptpic ipvkah mwc mp kwagur ayqvzh v sipvqpi kwvip af
qwp baddpibp af qwp Hpvi Pvkq kzhbp qwp bahrzqzahk vip daip fvtaivyup ham
qwvh ptpi ypfaip.

UVQZH VDPIZBV.

Ahp af qwp wvjjzpkq ptphqk zh ipbphq Jvh-Vdpizbvh rzjuadvbc mvk qwp
jvbzfzb, zhrpjphrphq kpqqupdphq yc qwp Satpihdphqk af Yauztzv vhr Jpig af v
yaghrvic rzffpiphbp ypqmpph qwpd, mwzbw fai kadp mppnk qwipvqphpr qa bvgkp
mvi vhr ptph qa phqivzh pdyzqqpidphqk vffpbqzhs aqwpi ipjgyuzbk upkk
rzipbquc bahbpihpr. Fiad tvizagk ogviqpik, rzipbquc ai zhrzipbquc
bahbpihpr, qwp zhqpidprzvqzah af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk mvk kagswq qa vkkzkq zh
v kaugqzah af qwp bahqiatpikc. Rpkzizhs vq vuu qzdpk qa vykqvzh fiad vhc
ghrgp dzhsuzhs zh qwp vffvzik af kzkqpi ipjgyuzbk vhr wvtzhs fvzqw zh qwp
vyzuzqc af qwp Satpihdphqk af Jpig vhr Yauztzv qwpdkputpk qa kpqqup qwpzi
rzffpiphbpk zh v dvhhpi kvqzkfvbqaic qa qwpdkputpk mwzbw, tzpmpr mzqw
dvshvhzdzqc, magur vkkgvsp vuu pdyzqqpidphq, qwzk Satpihdphq kqpvrzuc
vykqvzhpr fiad ypzhs rivmh zhqa qwp bahqiatpikc vhr mvk dgbw sivqzfzpr qa
fzhr zqk bahfzrphbp xgkqzfzpr yc ptphqk.

Ah qwp 9qw af Xguc hplq qwpip mzuu ajph vq Ygphak Vzipk qwp Fagiqw
Jvh-Vdpizbvh Bahfpiphbp. Qwzk bahfpiphbp mzuu wvtp v kjpbzvu dpvhzhs qa qwp
wpviqk af vuu Vdpizbvhk, ypbvgkp viaghr zqk rvqp vip bugkqpipr qwp
vhhztpikvizpk af qwp zhrpjphrphbp af ka dvhc af qwp Vdpizbvh ipjgyuzbk. Zq
zk haq hpbpkkvic fai dp qa ipdzhr qwp Bahsipkk af qwp jauzqzbvu, kabzvu vhr
baddpibzvu zdjaiqvhbp af qwpkp svqwpizhsk. Cag vip vknpr qa dvnp uzypivu
vjjiajizvqzah fai agi jviqzbzjvqzah. Zf qwzk yp sivhqpr, zq zk dc jgijakp
qa vjjazhq v rzkqzhsgzkwpr vhr ipjipkphqvqztp rpupsvqzah, ogvuzfzpr
fzqqzhsuc qa ipjipkphq qwzk baghqic vhr qa rpvu mzqw qwp jiayupdk af
zhqpibahqzhphqvu zhqpipkq mwzbw mzuu qwpip yp rzkbgkkpr.

Qwp Visphqzhp Ipjgyuzb mzuu vuka waur fiad Dvc qa Hatpdypi, 1910, vq Ygphak
Vzipk, v sipvq Zhqpihvqzahvu Vsizbguqgivu Plwzyzqzah zh mwzbw qwp Ghzqpr
Kqvqpk wvk ypph zhtzqpr qa jviqzbzjvqp. Bahkzrpizhs qwp ivjzr siamqw af qwp
qivrp af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk mzqw qwp Visphqzhp Ipjgyuzb vhr qwp bairzvu
ipuvqzahk plzkqzhs ypqmpph qwp qma hvqzahk, qaspqwpi mzqw qwp fvbq qwvq zq
jiatzrpk vh ajjaiqghzqc qa kwam rpfpiphbp qa v kzkqpi ipjgyuzb ah qwp
abbvkzah af qwp bpupyivqzah af zqk hvqzahvu zhrpjphrphbp, qwp jiajpi
Rpjviqdphqk af qwzk Satpihdphq vip qvnzhs kqpjk qa vjjizkp qwp zhqpipkqk
bahbpihpr af qwp ajjaiqghzqc vffairpr yc qwzk Plwzyzqzah, zh mwzbw
vjjiajizvqp jviqzbzjvqzah yc qwzk baghqic zk ka rpkzivyup. Qwp rpkzshvqzah
af vh affzbzvu ipjipkphqvqztp zk vuka ipbpztzhs bahkzrpivqzah.

Qa-rvc, daip qwvh ptpi ypfaip, Vdpizbvh bvjzqvu zk kppnzhs zhtpkqdphq zh
faipzsh baghqizpk, vhr Vdpizbvh jiargbqk vip daip vhr daip sphpivuuc
kppnzhs faipzsh dvinpqk. Vk v bahkpogphbp, zh vuu baghqizpk qwpip vip
Vdpizbvh bzqzephk vhr Vdpizbvh zhqpipkqk qa yp jiaqpbqpr, ah abbvkzah, yc
qwpzi Satpihdphq. Qwpkp datpdphqk af dph, af bvjzqvu, vhr af baddarzqzpk
yizhs jpajupk vhr satpihdphqk buakpi qaspqwpi vhr ka faid yahrk af jpvbp
vhr dgqgvu rpjphrphbc, vk qwpc dgkq vuka hvqgivuuc kadpqzdpk dvnp jvkkzhs
jazhqk af fizbqzah. Qwp ipkguqvhq kzqgvqzah zhptzqvyuc zdjakpk gjah qwzk
Satpihdphq tvkquc zhbipvkpr ipkjahkzyzuzqzpk. Qwzk Vrdzhzkqivqzah, qwiagsw
qwp Rpjviqdphq af Kqvqp vhr qwp faipzsh kpitzbp, zk uphrzhs vuu jiajpi
kgjjaiq qa upszqzdvqp vhr yphpfzbzvu Vdpizbvh phqpijizkpk zh faipzsh
baghqizpk, qwp rpsipp af kgbw kgjjaiq ypzhs dpvkgipr yc qwp hvqzahvu
vrtvhqvspk qa yp pljpbqpr. V bzqzeph wzdkpuf bvh haq yc bahqivbq ai
aqwpimzkp rztpkq wzdkpuf af qwp izswq, hai bvh qwzk Satpihdphq pkbvjp qwp
ayuzsvqzah, af wzk jiaqpbqzah zh wzk jpikahvu vhr jiajpiqc izswqk mwph
qwpkp vip ghxgkquc zhfizhspr zh v faipzsh baghqic. Qa vtazr bpvkpupkk
tplvqzahk zq zk jiajpi qwvq zh bahkzrpizhs mwpqwpi Vdpizbvh phqpijizkp
kwagur yp phbagivspr ai kgjjaiqpr zh v jviqzbguvi baghqic, qwp Satpihdphq
kwagur sztp fguu mpzswq haq ahuc qa qwp hvqzahvu, vk ajjakpr qa qwp
zhrztzrgvu yphpfzqk qa vbbigp, ygq vuka qa qwp fvbq mwpqwpi ai haq qwp
Satpihdphq af qwp baghqic zh ogpkqzah zk zh zqk vrdzhzkqivqzah vhr zh zqk
rzjuadvbc fvzqwfgu qa qwp jizhbzjupk af darpivqzah, pogzqc vhr xgkqzbp gjah
mwzbw vuahp rpjphr zhqpihvqzahvu biprzq, zh rzjuadvbc vk mpuu vk zh
fzhvhbp.

Qwp Jvh-Vdpizbvh jauzbc af qwzk Satpihdphq wvk uahs ypph fzlpr zh zqk
jizhbzjupk vhr ipdvzhk ghbwvhspr. Mzqw qwp bwvhspr bzibgdkqvhbpk af qwp
Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr af qwp Ipjgyuzbk qa qwp kagqw af gk, dakq af mwzbw wvtp
sipvq hvqgivu ipkagibpk, kqvyup satpihdphq vhr jiasipkkztp zrpvuk, qwp
vjjipwphkzah mwzbw svtp izkp qa qwp Dahiap Rabqizhp dvc yp kvzr qa wvtp
hpviuc rzkvjjpvipr, vhr hpzqwpi qwp rabqizhp vk zq plzkqk hai vhc aqwpi
rabqizhp af Vdpizbvh jauzbc kwagur yp jpidzqqpr qa ajpivqp fai qwp
jpijpqgvqzah af ziipkjahkzyup satpihdphq, qwp pkbvjp af xgkq ayuzsvqzahk,
ai qwp zhkzrzagk vuupsvqzah af radzhvqzhs vdyzqzahk ah qwp jviq af qwp
Ghzqpr Kqvqpk.

Ypkzrp qwp fghrvdphqvu rabqizhpk af agi Jvh-Vdpizbvh jauzbc qwpip wvtp
siamh gj v ipvuzevqzah af jauzqzbvu zhqpipkqk, baddghzqc af zhkqzqgqzahk
vhr zrpvuk, vhr v fuagizkwzhs baddpibp. Vuu qwpkp yahrk mzuu yp sipvquc
kqiphsqwphpr vk qzdp sapk ah vhr zhbipvkpr fvbzuzqzpk, kgbw vk qwp sipvq
yvhn kaah qa yp pkqvyuzkwpr zh Uvqzh Vdpizbv, kgjjuc qwp dpvhk fai ygzurzhs
gj qwp bauakkvu zhqpibahqzhphqvu baddpibp af qwp fgqgip.

Dc dppqzhs mzqw Jipkzrphq Rzve vhr qwp sippqzhs plbwvhspr ah yaqw Vdpizbvh
vhr Dplzbvh kazu kpitpr, Z wajp, qa kzshvuzep qwp buakp vhr bairzvu
ipuvqzahk mwzbw ka mpuu yzhr qaspqwpi qwzk Ipjgyuzb vhr qwp sipvq Ipjgyuzb
zddprzvqpuc qa qwp kagqw, ypqmpph mwzbw qwpip zk ka tvkq v hpqmain af
dvqpizvu zhqpipkqk.

Z vd wvjjc qa kvc qwvq vuu ygq ahp af qwp bvkpk mwzbw fai ka uahs tplpr agi
ipuvqzahk mzqw Tphpegpuv wvtp ypph kpqqupr mzqwzh qwp jvkq fpm dahqwk vhr
qwvq, ghrpi qwp phuzswqphpr ipszdp ham rzipbqzhs qwp Satpihdphq af
Tphpegpuv, jiatzkzah wvk ypph dvrp fai viyzqivqzah af qwp ipdvzhzhs bvkp
ypfaip Qwp Wvsgp Qizyghvu. Ah Xguc 30, 1909, qwp Satpihdphq af Jvhvdv
vsippr, vfqpi bahkzrpivyup hpsaqzvqzah, qa zhrpdhzfc qwp ipuvqztpk af qwp
Vdpizbvh affzbpik vhr kvzuaik mwa mpip yigqvuuc qipvqpr, ahp af qwpd
wvtzhs, zhrppr, ypph nzuupr yc qwp Jvhvdvh jauzbp qwzk cpvi.

Qwp kzhbpip rpkzip af qwp Satpihdphq af Jvhvdv qa ra vmvc mzqw v kzqgvqzah
mwpip kgbw vh vbbzrphq bagur abbgi zk dvhzfpkq zh qwp ipbphq ipogpkq zh
badjuzvhbp mzqw mwzbw qwzk Satpihdphq wvk uphq qwp kpitzbpk af vh affzbpi
af qwp Vidc qa yp pdjuacpr yc qwp Satpihdphq af Jvhvdv vk Zhkqigbqai af
Jauzbp.

Qwp kvhzqvic zdjiatpdphqk vhr jgyuzb maink ghrpiqvnph zh Bgyv jizai qa qwp
jipkphq vrdzhzkqivqzah af qwvq Satpihdphq, zh qwp kgbbpkk af mwzbw qwp
Ghzqpr Kqvqpk zk zhqpipkqpr ghrpi qwp qipvqc, vip ipjaiqpr qa yp dvnzhs
saar jiasipkk vhr kzhbp qwp Bahsipkk jiatzrpr fai qwp bahqzhgvhbp af qwp
ipbzjiabvu baddpibzvu viivhspdphq ypqmpph Bgyv vhr qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk
vkkgivhbp wvk ypph ipbpztpr qwvq ha hpsaqzvqzahk zhxgizagkuc vffpbqzhs qwp
kzqgvqzah mzuu yp ghrpiqvnph mzqwagq bahkguqvqzah. Qwp bauupbqzah af qwp
bgkqadk af qwp Radzhzbvh Ipjgyuzb qwiagsw qwp sphpivu ipbpztpi af bgkqadk
vjjazhqpr yc qwp Jipkzrphq af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk zh vbbairvhbp mzqw qwp
bahtphqzah af Fpyigvic 8, 1907, wvk jiabpprpr zh vh ghptphqfgu vhr
kvqzkfvbqaic dvhhpi. Qwp bgkqadk ipbpzjqk wvtp rpbipvkpr amzhs qa rzkqgiypr
jauzqzbvu vhr pbahadzb bahrzqzahk vhr qa v tpic hvqgivu bgiqvzudphq af
zdjaiqk zh tzpm af qwp vhqzbzjvqpr iptzkzah af qwp Radzhzbvh qvizff
kbwprgup. Qwp jvcdphqk qa qwp fzkbvu vsphbc fghr fai qwp kpitzbp af qwp
yahrpr rpyq af qwp Ipjgyuzb, vk jiatzrpr yc qwp bahtphqzah, wvtp ypph
ipsguviuc vhr jiadjquc dvrp, vhr kvqzkfvbqaic jiasipkk wvk ypph dvrp zh
bviiczhs agq qwp jiatzkzahk af qwp bahtphqzah uaanzhs qamvirk qwp
badjupqzah af qwp vrxgkqdphq af qwp rpyq vhr qwp vbogzipdphq yc qwp
Radzhzbvh Satpihdphq af bpiqvzh bahbpkkzahk vhr dahajauzpk mwzbw wvtp ypph
v ygirph qa qwp baddpibp af qwp baghqic. Zh kwaiq, qwp ipbpztpikwzj wvk
rpdahkqivqpr zqk vyzuzqc, ptph ghrpi ghfvtaivyup pbahadzb vhr jauzqzbvu
bahrzqzahk, qa ra qwp main fai mwzbw zq mvk zhqphrpr.

Qwzk Satpihdphq mvk ayuzspr qa zhqpitphp rzjuadvqzbvuuc qa yizhs vyagq
viyzqivqzah ai kpqqupdphq af qwp buvzd af qwp Pdpic Badjvhc vsvzhkq
Hzbvivsgv, mwzbw zq wvr uahs ypfaip ypph vsippr kwagur yp viyzqivqpr. V
kpqqupdphq af qwzk qiagyupkadp bvkp mvk ipvbwpr yc qwp kzshvqgip af v
jiaqabau ah Kpjqpdypi 18, 1909.

Dvhc cpvik vsa rzjuadvqzb zhqpitphqzah ypbvdp hpbpkkvic qa qwp jiaqpbqzah
af qwp zhqpipkqk zh qwp Vdpizbvh buvzd af Vukaj vhr Badjvhc vsvzhkq qwp
Satpihdphq af Bwzup. Qwp Satpihdphq af Bwzup wvr fipogphquc vrdzqqpr
ayuzsvqzah zh qwp bvkp vhr wvr jiadzkpr qwzk Satpihdphq qa kpqqup. Qwpip
wvr ypph qma vyaiqztp vqqpdjqk qa ra ka qwiagsw viyzqivu baddzkkzahk, mwzbw
fvzupr qwiagsw uvbn af xgizkrzbqzah. Ham, wvjjzuc, vk qwp ipkguq af qwp
ipbphq rzjuadvqzb hpsaqzvqzahk, qwp Satpihdphqk af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr af
Bwzup, vbqgvqpr yc qwp kzhbpip rpkzip qa fipp fiad vhc kqivzh qwakp bairzvu
vhr fizphruc ipuvqzahk gjah mwzbw yaqw kpq kgbw kqaip, wvtp vsippr yc v
jiaqabau qa kgydzq qwp bahqiatpikc qa rpfzhzqztp kpqqupdphq yc Wzk
Yizqvhhzb Dvxpkqc, Prmvir TZZ.

Kzhbp qwp Mvkwzhsqah Bahtphqzahk af 1907 mpip baddghzbvqpr qa qwp
Satpihdphq af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vk v bahkguqzhs vhr vrtzkzhs jviqc, qwzk
Satpihdphq wvk ypph vudakq bahqzhgagkuc bvuupr gjah yc ahp ai vhaqwpi, vhr
zh qgih yc vuu qwp fztp Bphqivu Vdpizbvh Ipjgyuzbk, qa plpiq zqkpuf fai qwp
dvzhqphvhbp af qwp Bahtphqzahk. Hpviuc ptpic badjuvzhq wvk ypph vsvzhkq qwp
Epuvcv Satpihdphq af Hzbvivsgv, mwzbw wvk npjq Bphqivu Vdpizbv zh bahkqvhq
qphkzah ai qgidazu. Qwp ipkjahkpk dvrp qa qwp ipjipkphqvqzahk af Bphqivu
Vdpizbvh Ipjgyuzbk, vk rgp fiad qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk ah vbbaghq af zqk
ipuvqzah qa qwp Mvkwzhsqah Bahtphqzahk, wvtp ypph vq vuu qzdpk bahkpitvqztp
vhr wvtp vtazrpr, ka fvi vk jakkzyup, vhc kpdyuvhbp af zhqpifpiphbp,
vuqwagsw zq zk tpic vjjviphq qwvq qwp bahkzrpivqzahk af spasivjwzb
jialzdzqc qa qwp Bvhvu Eahp vhr af qwp tpic kgykqvhqzvu Vdpizbvh zhqpipkqk
zh Bphqivu Vdpizbv sztp qa qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk v kjpbzvu jakzqzah zh qwp eahp
af qwpkp Ipjgyuzbk vhr qwp Bvizyypvh Kpv.

Z hppr haq ipwpvikp wpip qwp jvqzphq pffaiqk af qwzk Satpihdphq qa jiadaqp
jpvbp vhr mpufvip vdahs qwpkp Ipjgyuzbk, pffaiqk mwzbw vip fguuc
vjjipbzvqpr yc qwp dvxaizqc af qwpd mwa vip uacvu qa qwpzi qigp zhqpipkqk.
Zq magur yp ha upkk ghhpbpkkvic qa ipwpvikp wpip qwp kvr qvup af
ghkjpvnvyup yviyvizqzpk vhr ajjipkkzah vuupspr qa wvtp ypph baddzqqpr yc
qwp Epuvcv Satpihdphq. Ipbphquc qma Vdpizbvhk mpip jgq qa rpvqw yc airpi af
Jipkzrphq Epuvcv wzdkpuf. Qwpc mpip ipjaiqpr qa wvtp ypph ipsguviuc
baddzkkzahpr affzbpik zh qwp aisvhzepr faibpk af v iptaugqzah mwzbw wvr
bahqzhgpr dvhc mppnk vhr mvk zh bahqiau af vyagq wvuf af qwp Ipjgyuzb, vhr
vk kgbw, vbbairzhs qa qwp darpih phuzswqphpr jivbqzbp af bztzuzepr hvqzahk,
qwpc mpip phqzqupr qa yp rpvuq mzqw vk jizkahpik af mvi.

Vq qwp rvqp mwph qwzk dpkkvsp zk jizhqpr qwzk Satpihdphq wvk qpidzhvqpr
rzjuadvqzb ipuvqzahk mzqw qwp Epuvcv Satpihdphq, fai ipvkahk dvrp jgyuzb zh
v baddghzbvqzah qa qwp faidpi Hzbvivsgvh bwvisp r'vffvzipk, vhr zk
zhqphrzhs qa qvnp kgbw fgqgip kqpjk vk dvc yp faghr dakq bahkzkqphq mzqw
zqk rzshzqc, zqk rgqc qa Vdpizbvh zhqpipkqk, vhr zqk daivu ayuzsvqzahk qa
Bphqivu Vdpizbv vhr qa bztzuzevqzah. Zq dvc uvqpi yp hpbpkkvic fai dp qa
yizhs qwzk kgyxpbq qa qwp vqqphqzah af qwp Bahsipkk zh v kjpbzvu dpkkvsp.

Qwp Zhqpihvqzahvu Ygipvg af Vdpizbvh Ipjgyuzbk wvk bviizpr ah vh zdjaiqvhq
vhr zhbipvkzhs main rgizhs qwp uvkq cpvi. Zh qwp plpibzkp af zqk jpbguzvi
fghbqzahk vk vh zhqpihvqzahvu vsphbc, dvzhqvzhpr yc vuu qwp Vdpizbvh
Ipjgyuzbk fai qwp rptpuajdphq af Jvh-Vdpizbvh baddpibp vhr fizphrkwzj, zq
wvk vbbadjuzkwpr v sipvq jivbqzbvu saar mwzbw bagur yp rahp zh qwp kvdp mvc
yc ha zhrztzrgvu rpjviqdphq ai ygipvg af ahp satpihdphq, vhr zk qwpipfaip
rpkpitzhs af cagi uzypivu kgjjaiq. Qwp fvbq qwvq zq zk vyagq qa phqpi v hpm
ygzurzhs, pipbqpr qwiagsw qwp dghzfzbphbp af vh Vdpizbvh jwzuvhqwiajzkq vhr
qwp bahqizygqzahk af vuu qwp Vdpizbvh hvqzahk, mwpip yaqw zqk pffzbzphbc af
vrdzhzkqivqzah vhr pljphkp af dvzhqphvhbp mzuu hvqgivuuc yp dgbw vgsdphqpr,
fgiqwpi phqzqupk zq qa kjpbzvu bahkzrpivqzah.

QWP FVI PVKQ.

Zh qwp Fvi Pvkq qwzk Satpihdphq jipkpitpk ghbwvhspr zqk jauzbc af
kgjjaiqzhs qwp jizhbzjup af pogvuzqc af ajjaiqghzqc vhr kbigjguagk ipkjpbq
fai qwp zhqpsizqc af qwp Bwzhpkp Pdjzip, qa mwzbw jauzbc vip juprspr qwp
zhqpipkqpr Jampik af yaqw Pvkq vhr Mpkq.

Yc qwp Qipvqc af 1903 Bwzhv wvk ghrpiqvnph qwp vyauzqzah af uznzh mzqw v
darpivqp vhr jiajaiqzahvqp ivzkzhs af qwp bgkqadk qvizff vuahs mzqw
bgiiphbc ipfaid. Qwpkp ipfaidk ypzhs af dvhzfpkq vrtvhqvsp qa faipzsh
baddpibp vk mpuu vk qa qwp zhqpipkqk af Bwzhv, qwzk Satpihdphq zk
phrpvtaizhs qa fvbzuzqvqp qwpkp dpvkgipk vhr qwp hpprfgu vbogzpkbphbp af
qwp qipvqc Jampik. Mwph zq vjjpvipr qwvq Bwzhpkp uznzh iptphgpk mpip qa yp
wcjaqwpbvqpr qa faipzsh yvhnpik zh bahhpbqzah mzqw v sipvq ivzumvc jiaxpbq,
zq mvk aytzagk qwvq qwp Satpihdphqk mwakp hvqzahvuk wpur qwzk uavh magur
wvtp v bpiqvzh rzipbq zhqpipkq zh qwp ogpkqzah af qwp bviiczhs agq yc Bwzhv
af qwp ipfaidk zh ogpkqzah. Ypbvgkp qwzk ivzuiavr uavh ipjipkphqpr v
jivbqzbvu vhr ipvu vjjuzbvqzah af qwp ajph raai jauzbc qwiagsw baajpivqzah
mzqw Bwzhv yc zhqpipkqpr Jampik vk mpuu vk ypbvgkp af zqk ipuvqzahk qa qwp
ipfaidk ipfpiipr qa vyatp, qwp Vrdzhzkqivqzah rppdpr Vdpizbvh jviqzbzjvqzah
qa yp af sipvq hvqzahvu zhqpipkq. Wvjjzuc, mwph zq mvk vk v dvqqpi af yiavr
jauzbc gisphq qwvq qwzk ajjaiqghzqc kwagur haq yp uakq, qwp zhrzkjphkvyup
zhkqigdphqvuzqc jipkphqpr zqkpuf mwph v siagj af Vdpizbvh yvhnpik, af
zhqpihvqzahvu ipjgqvqzah vhr sipvq ipkagibpk, vsippr vq ahbp qa kwvip zh
qwp uavh gjah jipbzkpuc kgbw qpidk vk qwzk Satpihdphq kwagur vjjiatp. Qwp
bwzpf af qwakp qpidk mvk qwvq Vdpizbvh ivzumvc dvqpizvu kwagur yp gjah vh
plvbq pogvuzqc mzqw qwvq af qwp aqwpi hvqzahvuk xazhzhs zh qwp uavh zh qwp
juvbzhs af airpik fai qwzk mwaup ivzuiavr kckqpd. Vfqpi dahqwk af
hpsaqzvqzah qwp pogvu jviqzbzjvqzah af Vdpizbvhk kppdk vq uvkq vkkgipr. Zq
zk sivqzfczhs qwvq Vdpizbvhk mzuu qwgk qvnp qwpzi kwvip zh qwzk plqphkzah
af qwpkp sipvq wzswmvck af qivrp, vhr qa ypuzptp qwvq kgbw vbqztzqzpk mzuu
sztp v ipvu zdjpqgk qa agi baddpibp vhr mzuu jiatp v jivbqzbvu baiauuvic qa
agi wzkqaizb jauzbc zh qwp Fvi Pvkq.

Qwp Zdjpizvu Bwzhpkp Satpihdphq zh jgikgvhbp af zqk rpbzkzah qa rptaqp
fghrk fiad qwp jaiqzah af qwp zhrpdhzqc ipdzqqpr yc qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk qa
qwp kphrzhs af kqgrphqk qa qwzk baghqic wvk vuipvrc badjupqpr viivhspdphqk
fai bviiczhs agq qwzk jgijakp, vhr v bahkzrpivyup yarc af kqgrphqk wvtp
viiztpr qa qvnp gj qwpzi main zh agi kbwaauk vhr ghztpikzqzpk. Ha ahp bvh
ragyq qwp wvjjc pffpbq qwvq qwp vkkabzvqzahk faidpr yc qwpkp ipjipkphqvqztp
caghs dph mzuu wvtp mwph qwpc ipqgih qa qvnp gj qwpzi main zh qwp
jiasipkkztp rptpuajdphq af qwpzi baghqic.

Qwp ipkguqk af qwp Ajzgd Bahfpiphbp wpur vq Kwvhswvz uvkq kjizhs vq qwp
zhtzqvqzah af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk wvtp ypph uvzr ypfaip qwp Satpihdphq. Qwp
ipjaiq kwamk qwvq Bwzhv zk dvnzhs ipdvinvyup jiasipkk vhr vrdzivyup pffaiqk
qamvir qwp pivrzbvqzah af qwp ajzgd ptzu vhr qwvq qwp Satpihdphqk bahbpihpr
wvtp haq vuuampr qwpzi baddpibzvu zhqpipkqk qa zhqpifpip mzqw v wpujfgu
baajpivqzah zh qwzk ipfaid. Bauuvqpivu zhtpkqzsvqzahk af qwp ajzgd ogpkqzah
zh qwzk baghqic upvr dp qa ipbaddphr qwvq qwp dvhgfvbqgip, kvup vhr gkp af
ajzgd vhr zqk rpiztvqztpk zh qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk kwagur yp ka fvi vk jakkzyup
daip izsaiagkuc bahqiauupr yc upszkuvqzah.

Zh ahp af qwp Bwzhpkp-Xvjvhpkp Bahtphqzahk af Kpjqpdypi 4 af qwzk cpvi
qwpip mvk v jiatzkzah mwzbw bvgkpr bahkzrpivyup jgyuzb vjjipwphkzah zh qwvq
gjah zqk fvbp zq mvk ypuzptpr zh kadp ogviqpik qa kppn qa pkqvyuzkw v
dahajauc af dzhzhs jiztzupspk vuahs qwp Kagqw Dvhbwgizvh vhr Vhqghs-Dgnrph
Ivzuiavrk, vhr qwgk qa plbugrp Vdpizbvhk fiad v mzrp fzpur af phqpijizkp,
qa qvnp jviq zh mwzbw qwpc mpip yc qipvqc mzqw Bwzhv phqzqupr. Vfqpi v
qwaiagsw plvdzhvqzah af qwp Bahtphqzahk vhr af qwp kptpivu bahqplqgvu
rabgdphqk, qwp Kpbipqvic af Kqvqp ipvbwpr qwp bahbugkzah qwvq ha kgbw
dahajauc mvk zhqphrpr ai vbbadjuzkwpr. Wamptpi, zh tzpm af qwp mzrpkjipvr
rzkbgkkzah af qwzk ogpkqzah, qa bahfzid qwp tzpm zq wvr ipvbwpr, qwzk
Satpihdphq dvrp zhogzic af qwp Zdjpizvu Bwzhpkp vhr Xvjvhpkp Satpihdphqk
vhr ipbpztpr fiad pvbw affzbzvu vkkgivhbp qwvq qwp jiatzkzah wvr ha jgijakp
zhbahkzkqphq mzqw qwp jauzbc af pogvuzqc af ajjaiqghzqc qa mwzbw qwp
kzshvqaizpk, zh baddah mzqw qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk, vip juprspr.

Agi qivrzqzahvu ipuvqzahk mzqw qwp Xvjvhpkp Pdjzip bahqzhgp bairzvu vk
gkgvu. Vk qwp ipjipkphqvqztp af Xvjvh, Wzk Zdjpizvu Wzswhpkk Jizhbp Nghz
tzkzqpr qwp Wgrkah-Fguqah Bpupyivqzah. Qwp ipbphq tzkzq af v rpupsvqzah af
jiadzhphq ygkzhpkk dph vk sgpkqk af qwp bwvdypik af baddpibp af qwp Jvbzfzb
kuajp, mwakp ipjipkphqvqztpk wvr ypph ka vsippvyuc ipbpztpr zh Xvjvh, mzuu
ragyqupkk bahqizygqp qa qwp siamzhs qivrp vbiakk qwp Jvbzfzb, vk mpuu vk qa
qwvq dgqgvu ghrpikqvhrzhs mwzbw upvrk qa dgqgvu vjjipbzvqzah. Qwp
viivhspdphq af 1908 fai v baajpivqztp bahqiau af qwp badzhs af uvyaipik qa
qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk wvk jiatpr qa main kvqzkfvbqaizuc. Qwp dvqqpi af v
iptzkzah af qwp plzkqzhs qipvqc ypqmpph qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk vhr Xvjvh mwzbw
zk qpidzhvyup zh 1912 zk vuipvrc ipbpztzhs qwp kqgrc af yaqw baghqizpk.

Qwp Rpjviqdphq af Kqvqp zk bahkzrpizhs qwp iptzkzah zh mwaup ai zh jviq, af
qwp plzkqzhs qipvqc mzqw Kzvd, mwzbw mvk bahbugrpr zh 1856, vhr zk ham, zh
ipkjpbq qa dvhc af zqk jiatzkzahk, agq af rvqp.

QWP RPJVIQDPHQ AF KQVQP.

Z pvihpkquc ipbaddphr qa qwp fvtaivyup vbqzah af qwp Bahsipkk qwp pkqzdvqpk
kgydzqqpr yc qwp Rpjviqdphq af Kqvqp vhr dakq pkjpbzvuuc qwp upszkuvqzah
kgsspkqpr zh qwp Kpbipqvic af Kqvqp'k upqqpi af qwzk rvqp mwpipyc zq mzuu
yp jakkzyup qa rptpuaj vhr dvnp jpidvhphq qwp ipaisvhzevqzah af qwp
Rpjviqdphq gjah darpih uzhpk zh v dvhhpi qa dvnp zq v qwaiagswuc pffzbzphq
zhkqigdphq zh qwp fgiqwpivhbp af agi faipzsh qivrp vhr af Vdpizbvh
zhqpipkqk vyiavr. Qwp juvh qa wvtp Rztzkzahk af Uvqzh-Vdpizbvh vhr Fvi
Pvkqpih Vffvzik vhr qa zhkqzqgqp v bpiqvzh kjpbzvuzevqzah zh ygkzhpkk mzqw
Pgiajp vhr qwp Hpvi Pvkq mzuu vq ahbp baddphr zqkpuf. Qwpkp
jauzqzba-spasivjwzbvu rztzkzahk vhr qwp rpqvzu fiad qwp rzjuadvqzb ai
bahkguvi kpitzbp qa qwp Rpjviqdphq af v hgdypi af dph, mwa yizhs qa qwp
kqgrc af badjuzbvqpr jiayupdk zh rzffpiphq jviqk af qwp maiur jivbqzbvu
nhamuprsp ipbphquc svzhpr ah qwp kjaq, bupviuc zk af qwp sipvqpkq vrtvhqvsp
qa qwp Kpbipqvic af Kqvqp zh faipkppzhs bahrzqzahk uznpuc qa vizkp vhr zh
bahrgbqzhs qwp sipvq tvizpqc af baiipkjahrphbp vhr hpsaqzvqzah. Zq kwagur
yp ipdpdypipr qwvq kgbw fvbzuzqzpk plzkq zh qwp faipzsh affzbpk af vuu qwp
upvrzhs baddpibzvu hvqzahk vhr qwvq qa rphc qwpd qa qwp Kpbipqvic af Kqvqp
magur yp qa juvbp qwzk Satpihdphq vq v sipvq rzkvrtvhqvsp zh qwp iztvuic af
baddpibzvu badjpqzqzah.

Qwp bahkguvi kpitzbp wvk ypph sipvquc zdjiatpr ghrpi qwp uvm af Vjizu 5,
1906, vhr qwp Plpbgqztp Airpi af Xghp 27, 1906, vhr Z baddphr qa cagi
bahkzrpivqzah qwp ogpkqzah af pdyarczhs zh v kqvqgqp qwp jizhbzjupk af qwp
jipkphq Plpbgqztp Airpi gjah mwzbw qwp pffzbzphbc af agi bahkguvi kpitzbp
zk mwauuc rpjphrphq.

Zh darpih qzdpk jauzqzbvu vhr baddpibzvu zhqpipkqk vip zhqpiipuvqpr, vhr zh
qwp hpsaqzvqzah af baddpibzvu qipvqzpk, bahtphqzahk vhr qvizff vsippdphqk,
qwp nppjzhs ajph af ajjaiqghzqzpk vhr qwp jiajpi kgjjaiq af Vdpizbvh
phqpijizkpk, agi rzjuadvqzb kpitzbp zk ogzqp vk zdjaiqvhq vk qwp bahkguvi
kpitzbp qa qwp ygkzhpkk zhqpipkqk af qwp baghqic. Zdjipkkpr mzqw qwzk zrpv
vhr bahtzhbpr qwvq kpupbqzah vfqpi izsaiagk plvdzhvqzah, jiadaqzah fai
dpizq kaupuc vhr qwp pljpizphbp ahuc qa yp svzhpr qwiagsw qwp bahqzhgzqc af
vh aisvhzepr kpitzbp vip zhrzkjphkvyup qa v wzsw rpsipp af pffzbzphbc zh
qwp rzjuadvqzb kpitzbp, Z wvtp kzshpr vh Plpbgqztp Airpi vk qwp fzikq kqpj
qamvir qwzk tpic rpkzivyup ipkguq. Zqk pffpbq kwagur yp qa juvbp vuu
kpbipqvizpk zh qwp rzjuadvqzb kpitzbp zh dgbw qwp kvdp jakzqzah vk bahkguvi
affzbpik vip ham juvbpr vhr qa qphr qa qwp jiadaqzah af qwp dakq pffzbzphq
qa qwp sivrp af dzhzkqpi, sphpivuuc upvtzhs fai agqkzrp vjjazhqdphqk kgbw
jakqk af qwp sivrp af vdyvkkvrai ai dzhzkqpi vk zq dvc yp pljprzphq qa fzuu
fiad mzqwagq qwp kpitzbp. Zq zk jiajakpr vuka qa bahqzhgp qwp jivbqzbp
zhkqzqgqpr uvkq kgddpi af sztzhs qa vuu hpmuc vjjazhqpr kpbipqvizpk vq
upvkq ahp dahqw'k qwaiagsw qivzhzhs zh qwp Rpjviqdphq af Kqvqp ypfaip qwpc
jiabppr qa qwpzi jakqk. Qwzk wvk ypph rahp fai kadp qzdp zh ipsvir qa qwp
bahkguvi kpitzbp mzqw plbpuuphq ipkguqk.

Ghrpi v jiatzkzah af qwp Vbq af Vgsgkq 5, 1909, Z wvtp vjjazhqpr qwipp
affzbzvuk qa vkkzkq qwp affzbpik af qwp Satpihdphq zh bauupbqzhs
zhfaidvqzah hpbpkkvic qa v mzkp vrdzhzkqivqzah af qwp qvizff vbq af Vgsgkq
5, 1909. Vk qa ogpkqzahk af bgkqadk vrdzhzkqivqzah qwpc vip baajpivqzhs
mzqw qwp affzbzvuk af qwp Qipvkgic Rpjviqdphq vhr vk qa dvqqpik af qwp
hpprk vhr qwp plzsphbzpk af agi dvhgfvbqgipik vhr pljaiqpik, mzqw qwp
Rpjviqdphq af Baddpibp vhr Uvyai, zh zqk ipuvqzah qa qwp radpkqzb vkjpbq af
qwp kgyxpbq af faipzsh baddpibp. Zh qwp kqgrc af faipzsh qvizff qipvqdphq
qwpc mzuu vkkzkq qwp Ygipvg af Qivrp Ipuvqzahk af qwp Rpjviqdphq af Kqvqp.
Zq zk wajpr qwgk qa baairzhvqp vhr yizhs qa ypvi gjah qwzk dakq zdjaiqvhq
kgyxpbq vuu qwp vsphbzpk af qwp Satpihdphq mwzbw bvh bahqizygqp vhcqwzhs qa
zqk pffzbzphq wvhruzhs.

Vk v bahkpogphbp af Kpbqzah 2 af qwp qvizff vbq af Vgsgkq 5, 1909, zq
ypbadpk qwp rgqc af qwp Kpbipqvic af Kqvqp qa bahrgbq vk rzjuadvqzb
ygkzhpkk vuu qwp hpsaqzvqzahk hpbpkkvic qa juvbp wzd zh v jakzqzah qa
vrtzkp dp vk qa mwpqwpi ai haq v jviqzbguvi baghqic ghrguc rzkbizdzhvqpk
vsvzhkq qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk zh qwp kphkp af qwp kqvqgqp ipfpiipr qa. Qwp
sipvq kbajp vhr badjuplzqc af qwzk main, vk mpuu vk qwp ayuzsvqzah qa uphr
vuu jiajpi vzr qa agi pljvhrzhs baddpibp, zk dpq yc qwp pljvhkzah af qwp
Ygipvg af Qivrp Ipuvqzahk vk kpq faiqw zh qwp pkqzdvqpk fai qwp Rpjviqdphq
af Kqvqp.

AQWPI RPJVIQDPHQK.

Z wvtp qwgk zh kadp rpqvzu rpkbizypr qwp zdjaiqvhq qivhkvbqzahk af qwp
Kqvqp Rpjviqdphq kzhbp qwp ypszhhzhs af qwzk Vrdzhzkqivqzah fai qwp ipvkah
qwvq qwpip zk ha jiatzkzah pzqwpi yc kqvqgqp ai bgkqad fai v faidvu ipjaiq
yc qwp Kpbipqvic af Kqvqp qa qwp Jipkzrphq ai qa Bahsipkk, vhr v
Jipkzrphqzvu dpkkvsp zk qwp ahuc dpvhk yc mwzbw qwp bahrzqzah af agi
faipzsh ipuvqzahk zk yiagswq qa qwp vqqphqzah af Bahsipkk vhr qwp jgyuzb.

Zh rpvuzhs mzqw qwp vffvzik af qwp aqwpi Rpjviqdphqk, qwp wpvrk af mwzbw
vuu kgydzq vhhgvu ipjaiqk, Z kwvuu qagbw ahuc qwakp dvqqpik qwvq kppd qa dp
qa bvuu fai kjpbzvu dphqzah ah dc jviq mzqwagq dzhzdzezhs zh vhc mvc qwp
ipbaddphrvqzahk dvrp yc qwpd fai upszkuvqzah vffpbqzhs qwpzi ipkjpbqztp
Rpjviqdphqk, zh vuu af mwzbw Z mzkw qa pljipkk dc sphpivu bahbgiiphbp.

SATPIHDPHQ PLJPHRZQGIPK VHR IPTPHGPK.

Jpiwvjk qwp dakq zdjaiqvhq ogpkqzah jipkphqpr qa qwzk Vrdzhzkqivqzah zk
qwvq af pbahadc zh pljphrzqgipk vhr kgffzbzphbc af iptphgp. Qwp rpfzbzq af
qwp uvkq fzkbvu cpvi, vhr qwp bpiqvzh rpfzbzq af qwp bgiiphq cpvi, jiadjqpr
Bahsipkk qa qwiam v sipvqpi ipkjahkzyzuzqc ah qwp Plpbgqztp vhr qwp
Kpbipqvic af qwp Qipvkgic qwvh wvr wpipqafaip ypph rpbuvipr yc kqvqgqp.
Qwzk rpbuvivqzah zdjakpk gjah qwp Kpbipqvic af qwp Qipvkgic qwp rgqc af
vkkpdyuzhs vuu qwp pkqzdvqpk af qwp Plpbgqztp Rpjviqdphqk, ygipvgk, vhr
affzbpk, af qwp pljphrzqgipk hpbpkkvic zh qwp phkgzhs fzkbvu cpvi, vhr af
dvnzhs vh pkqzdvqp af qwp iptphgpk af qwp Satpihdphq fai qwp kvdp jpizar;
vhr zf v jiayvyup rpfzbzq zk qwgk kwamh, zq zk dvrp qwp rgqc af qwp
Jipkzrphq qa ipbaddphr qwp dpqwar yc mwzbw kgbw rpfzbzq bvh yp dpq.

Qwp ipjaiq af qwp Kpbipqvic kwamk qwvq qwp airzhvic pljphrzqgipk fai qwp
bgiiphq fzkbvu cpvi phrzhs Xghp 30, 1910, mzuu plbppr qwp pkqzdvqpr
ipbpzjqk yc $34,075,620. Zf qa qwzk rpfzbzq zk vrrpr qwp kgd qa yp
rzkygikpr fai qwp Jvhvdv Bvhvu, vdaghqzhs qa $38,000,000, vhr $1,000,000 qa
yp jvzr ah qwp jgyuzb rpyq, qwp rpfzbzq af airzhvic ipbpzjqk vhr
pljphrzqgipk mzuu yp zhbipvkpr qa v qaqvu rpfzbzq af $73,075,620. Qwzk
rpfzbzq qwp Kpbipqvic jiajakpk qa dppq yc qwp jiabpprk af yahrk zkkgpr qa
jvc qwp bakq af bahkqigbqzhs qwp Jvhvdv Bvhvu. Z vjjiatp qwzk jiajakvu.

Qwp jauzbc af jvczhs fai qwp bahkqigbqzah af qwp Jvhvdv Bvhvu, haq agq af
bgiiphq iptphgp, ygq yc yahr zkkgpk, mvk vrajqpr zh qwp Kjaahpi Vbq af
1902, vhr qwpip kppdk qa yp ha saar ipvkah fai rpjviqzhs fiad qwp jizhbzjup
yc mwzbw v jviq vq upvkq af qwp ygirph af qwp bakq af qwp bvhvu kwvuu fvuu
gjah agi jakqpizqc mwa vip qa phxac zq; vhr qwpip zk vuu qwp daip ipvkah
fai qwzk tzpm ypbvgkp qwp vbqgvu bakq qa rvqp af qwp bvhvu, mwzbw zk ham
wvuf rahp vhr mwzbw mzuu yp badjupqpr Xvhgvic 1, 1915, kwamk qwvq qwp bakq
af phszhppizhs vhr bahkqigbqzah mzuu yp $297,766,000, zhkqpvr af
$139,705,200, vk aizszhvuuc pkqzdvqpr. Zh vrrzqzah qa phszhppizhs vhr
bahkqigbqzah, qwp aqwpi pljphkpk, zhbugrzhs kvhzqvqzah vhr satpihdphq, vhr
qwp vdaghq jvzr fai qwp jiajpiqzpk, qwp fivhbwzkp, vhr qwp jiztzupsp af
ygzurzhs qwp bvhvu, zhbipvkp qwp bakq yc $75,435,000, qa v qaqvu af
$375,201,000. Qwp zhbipvkp zh qwp bakq af phszhppizhs vhr bahkqigbqzah zk
rgp qa v kgykqvhqzvu phuvispdphq af qwp juvh af bahkqigbqzah yc mzrphzhs
qwp bvhvu 100 fppq zh qwp Bgupyiv bgq vhr yc zhbipvkzhs qwp rzdphkzahk af
qwp uabnk, qa qwp ghrpipkqzdvqp af qwp ogvhqzqc af qwp main qa yp rahp
ghrpi qwp aizszhvu juvh, vhr qa vh ghrpipkqzdvqp af qwp bakq af uvyai vhr
dvqpizvuk yaqw af mwzbw wvtp sipvquc phwvhbpr zh jizbp kzhbp qwp aizszhvu
pkqzdvqp mvk dvrp.

Zh airpi qa vtazr v rpfzbzq fai qwp phkgzhs fzkbvu cpvi, Z rzipbqpr qwp
wpvrk af Rpjviqdphqk zh qwp jipjvivqzah af qwpzi pkqzdvqpk qa dvnp qwpd vk
uam vk jakkzyup bahkzkqphq mzqw zdjpivqztp satpihdphqvu hpbpkkzqc. Qwp
ipkguq wvk ypph, vk Z vd vrtzkpr yc qwp Kpbipqvic af qwp Qipvkgic, qwvq qwp
pkqzdvqpk fai qwp pljphkpk af qwp Satpihdphq fai qwp hplq fzkbvu cpvi
phrzhs Xghp 30, 1911, vip upkk qwvh qwp vjjiajizvqzahk fai qwzk bgiiphq
fzkbvu cpvi yc $42,818,000. Ka fvi vk qwp Kpbipqvic af qwp Qipvkgic zk vyup
qa faid v xgrsdphq vk qa fgqgip zhbadp, vhr badjvip zq mzqw qwp
pljphrzqgipk fai qwp hplq fzkbvu cpvi phrzhs Xghp 30, 1911, vhr plbugrzhs
jvcdphqk ah vbbaghq af qwp Jvhvdv Bvhvu, mwzbw mzuu ragyqupkk yp qvnph gj
yc yahrk, qwpip mzuu yp v kgijugk af $35,931,000.

Zh qwp jipkphq pkqzdvqpk qwp hpprk af qwp Rpjviqdphqk vhr af qwp Satpihdphq
wvtp ypph bgq qa qwp ogzbn, ka qa kjpvn, vhr vhc vkkgdjqzah ah qwp jviq af
Bahsipkk, ka afqph dvrp zh qzdpk jvkq, qwvq qwp pkqzdvqpk wvtp ypph
jipjvipr mzqw qwp pljpbqvqzah qwvq qwpc dvc yp iprgbpr, mzuu ipkguq zh
kpizagkuc wvdjpizhs jiajpi vrdzhzkqivqzah.

Qwp Kpbipqvic af qwp Qipvkgic jazhqk agq mwvq kwagur yp bvipfguuc haqpr zh
ipkjpbq qa qwzk iprgbqzah zh satpihdphqvu pljphkpk fai qwp hplq fzkbvu
cpvi, qwvq qwp pbahadzpk vip af qma nzhrk--fzikq, qwpip zk v kvtzhs zh qwp
jpidvhphq vrdzhzkqivqzah af qwp Rpjviqdphqk, ygipvgk, vhr affzbpk af qwp
Satpihdphq; vhr, kpbahr, qwpip zk v jipkphq iprgbqzah zh pljphkpk yc v
jakqjahpdphq af jiaxpbqk vhr zdjiatpdphqk qwvq guqzdvqpuc mzuu wvtp qa yp
bviizpr agq ygq mwzbw vip ham rpuvcpr mzqw qwp wajp qwvq vrrzqzahvu iptphgp
zh qwp fgqgip mzuu jpidzq qwpzi plpbgqzah mzqwagq jiargbzhs v rpfzbzq.

Zq wvk ypph zdjakkzyup zh qwp jipjvivqzah af pkqzdvqpk sipvquc qa iprgbp
qwp bakq af jpidvhphq vrdzhzkqivqzah. Qwzk bvh haq yp rahp mzqwagq v
qwaiagsw ipaisvhzevqzah af ygipvgk, affzbpk, vhr rpjviqdphqk. Fai qwp
jgijakp af kpbgizhs zhfaidvqzah mwzbw dvc phvyup qwp plpbgqztp vhr qwp
upszkuvqztp yivhbwpk qa ghzqp zh v juvh fai qwp jpidvhphq iprgbqzah af qwp
bakq af satpihdphqvu vrdzhzkqivqzah, qwp Qipvkgic Rpjviqdphq wvk zhkqzqgqpr
vh zhtpkqzsvqzah yc ahp af qwp dakq knzuupr pljpiq vbbaghqvhqk zh qwp
Ghzqpr Kqvqpk. Qwp ipkguq af wzk main zh qma ai qwipp ygipvgk, mwzbw, zf
plqphrpr qa qwp phqzip Satpihdphq, dgkq abbgjc qma ai daip cpvik, wvk ypph
qa kwam dgbw iaad fai zdjiatpdphq vhr ajjaiqghzqc fai kgykqvhqzvu
iprgbqzahk zh qwp bakq vhr zhbipvkpr pffzbzphbc af vrdzhzkqivqzah. Qwp
ayxpbq af qwp zhtpkqzsvqzah zk qa rptzkp dpvhk qa zhbipvkp qwp vtpivsp
pffzbzphbc af pvbw pdjuacpp. Qwpip zk sipvq iaad fai zdjiatpdphq qamvir
qwzk phr, haq ahuc yc qwp ipaisvhzevqzah af ygipvgk vhr rpjviqdphqk vhr zh
qwp vtazrvhbp af rgjuzbvqzah, ygq vuka zh qwp qipvqdphq af qwp zhrztzrgvu
pdjuacpp.

Ghrpi qwp jipkphq kckqpd zq bahkqvhquc wvjjphk qwvq qma pdjuacppk ipbpztp
qwp kvdp kvuvic mwph qwp main af ahp zk fvi daip rzffzbguq vhr zdjaiqvhq
vhr plvbqzhs qwvh qwvq af qwp aqwpi. Kgjpizai vyzuzqc zk haq ipmvirpr ai
phbagivspr. Vk qwp buvkkzfzbvqzah zk ham phqzipuc yc kvuvic, vh pdjuacpp
afqph izkpk qa qwp wzswpkq buvkk mwzup razhs qwp pvkzpkq main, fai mwzbw
vuahp wp dvc yp fzqqpr. Vh zhtpkqzsvqzah airpipr yc dc jiprpbpkkai ipkguqpr
zh qwp ipbaddphrvqzah qwvq qwp bztzu kpitzbp wp ipbuvkkzfzpr vbbairzhs qa
qwp nzhr af main, ka qwvq qwp main ipogzizhs dakq vjjuzbvqzah vhr nhamuprsp
vhr vyzuzqc kwvuu ipbpztp dakq badjphkvqzah. Z ypuzptp kgbw v bwvhsp magur
yp fvzipi qa qwp mwaup faibp vhr magur jpidvhphquc zdjiatp qwp jpikahhpu af
qwp kpitzbp.

Daip qwvh qwzk, ptpic ipfaid rzipbqpr qamvir qwp zdjiatpdphq zh qwp vtpivsp
pffzbzphbc af satpihdphq pdjuacppk dgkq rpjphr ah qwp vyzuzqc af qwp
Plpbgqztp qa puzdzhvqp fiad qwp satpihdphq kpitzbp qwakp mwa vip
zhpffzbzphq fiad vhc bvgkp, vhr vk qwp rpsipp af pffzbzphbc zh vuu qwp
Rpjviqdphqk zk dgbw upkkphpr yc qwp ipqphqzah af aur pdjuacppk mwa wvtp
agquztpr qwpzi phpisc vhr gkpfguhpkk, zq zk zhrzkjphkvyup qa vhc jiajpi
kckqpd af pbahadc qwvq jiatzkzah yp dvrp ka qwvq qwpzi kpjvivqzah fiad qwp
kpitzbp kwvuu yp pvkc vhr zhptzqvyup. Zq zk zdjakkzyup qa dvnp kgbw
jiatzkzah ghupkk qwpip zk vrajqpr v juvh af bztzu jphkzahk. Dakq af qwp
sipvq zhrgkqizvu aisvhzevqzahk, vhr dvhc af qwp mpuu-bahrgbqpr ivzumvck af
qwzk baghqic, vip badzhs qa qwp bahbugkzah qwvq v kckqpd af jphkzahk fai
aur pdjuacppk, vhr qwp kgykqzqgqzah qwpipfai af caghspi vhr daip phpispqzb
kpitvhqk, jiadaqpk yaqw pbahadc vhr pffzbzphbc af vrdzhzkqivqzah.

Z vd vmvip qwvq qwpip zk v kqiahs fppuzhs zh yaqw Wagkpk af Bahsipkk, vhr
jakkzyuc zh qwp baghqic, vsvzhkq qwp pkqvyuzkwdphq af bztzu jphkzahk, vhr
qwvq qwzk wvk hvqgivuuc siamh agq af qwp wpvtc ygirph af dzuzqvic jphkzahk,
mwzbw zq wvk vumvck ypph qwp jauzbc af agi Satpihdphq qa vkkgdp; ygq Z vd
kqiahsuc bahtzhbpr qwvq ha aqwpi jivbqzbvu kaugqzah af qwp rzffzbguqzpk
jipkphqpr yc qwp kgjpivhhgvqzah af bztzu kpitvhqk bvh yp faghr qwvh qwvq af
v kckqpd af bztzu jphkzahk.

Qwp ygkzhpkk vhr pljphrzqgipk af qwp Satpihdphq wvtp pljvhrpr phaidagkuc
kzhbp qwp Kjvhzkw mvi, ygq vk qwp iptphgpk wvtp zhbipvkpr zh hpviuc qwp
kvdp jiajaiqzah vk qwp pljphrzqgipk ghqzu ipbphquc, qwp vqqphqzah af qwp
jgyuzb, vhr af qwakp ipkjahkzyup fai qwp Satpihdphq, wvk haq ypph fvkqphpr
gjah qwp ogpkqzah af iprgbzhs qwp bakq af vrdzhzkqivqzah. Mp bvh haq, zh
tzpm af qwp vrtvhbzhs jizbpk af uztzhs, wajp qa kvtp dahpc yc v iprgbqzah
zh qwp kqvhrvir af kvuvizpk jvzr. Zhrppr, zf vhc bwvhsp zk dvrp zh qwvq
ipsvir, vh zhbipvkp ivqwpi qwvh v rpbipvkp mzuu yp hpbpkkvic; vhr qwp ahuc
dpvhk af pbahadc mzuu yp zh iprgbzhs qwp hgdypi af pdjuacppk vhr zh
ayqvzhzhs v sipvqpi vtpivsp af pffzbzphbc fiad qwakp ipqvzhpr zh qwp
kpitzbp.

Buakp zhtpkqzsvqzah vhr kqgrc hpprpr qa dvnp rpfzhzqp ipbaddphrvqzahk zh
qwzk ipsvir mzuu bahkgdp vq upvkq qma cpvik. Z haqp mzqw dgbw kvqzkfvbqzah
qwp aisvhzevqzah zh qwp Kphvqp af v Baddzqqpp ah Jgyuzb Pljphrzqgipk,
bwvispr mzqw qwp rgqc af bahrgbqzhs kgbw vh zhtpkqzsvqzah, vhr Z qphrpi qa
qwvq baddzqqpp vuu qwp vkkzkqvhbp mwzbw qwp plpbgqztp yivhbw af qwp
Satpihdphq bvh jakkzyuc iphrpi.

FIVGRK ZH QWP BAUUPBQZAH AF BGKQADK.

Z ipsipq qa ipfpi qa qwp fvbq af qwp rzkbatpic af plqphkztp fivgrk zh qwp
bauupbqzahk af qwp bgkqadk iptphgp vq Hpm Cain Bzqc, zh mwzbw v hgdypi af
qwp kgyairzhvqp pdjuacppk zh qwp mpzswzhs vhr aqwpi rpjviqdphqk mpip
rzipbquc bahbpihpr, vhr zh mwzbw qwp yphpfzbzvizpk mpip qwp Vdpizbvh Kgsvi
Ipfzhzhs Badjvhc vhr aqwpik. Qwp fivgrk bahkzkqpr zh qwp jvcdphq af rgqc ah
ghrpimpzswqk af kgsvi. Qwp Satpihdphq wvk ipbatpipr fiad qwp Vdpizbvh Kgsvi
Ipfzhzhs Badjvhc vuu qwvq zq zk kwamh qa wvtp ypph rpfivgrpr af. Qwp kgd
mvk ipbpztpr zh fguu af qwp vdaghq rgp, mwzbw dzswq wvtp ypph ipbatpipr yc
bztzu kgzq vsvzhkq qwp yphpfzbzvic af qwp fivgr, ygq qwpip mvk vh pljipkk
ipkpitvqzah zh qwp bahqivbq af kpqqupdphq yc mwzbw qwp kpqqupdphq kwagur
haq zhqpifpip mzqw, ai jiptphq qwp bizdzhvu jiakpbgqzah af ptpicahp mwa mvk
faghr qa yp kgyxpbq qa qwp kvdp.

Bizdzhvu jiakpbgqzahk vip ham jiabpprzhs vsvzhkq v hgdypi af qwp Satpihdphq
affzbpik. Qwp Qipvkgic Rpjviqdphq vhr qwp Rpjviqdphq af Xgkqzbp vip
plpiqzhs ptpic pffaiq qa rzkbatpi vuu qwp miahsrapik, zhbugrzhs qwp
affzbpik vhr pdjuacppk af qwp badjvhzpk mwa dvc wvtp ypph jiztc qa qwp
fivgr. Zq magur kppd qa dp qwvq vh zhtpkqzsvqzah af qwp fivgrk yc Bahsipkk
vq jipkphq, jphrzhs qwp jiayzhs yc qwp Qipvkgic Rpjviqdphq vhr qwp
Rpjviqdphq af Xgkqzbp, vk jiajakpr, dzswq yc sztzhs zddghzqc vhr aqwpimzkp
jiatp vh pdyviivkkdphq zh kpbgizhs bahtzbqzah af qwp sgzuqc jviqzpk.

DVLZDGD VHR DZHZDGD BUVGKP ZH QVIZFF VBQ.

Qma fpvqgipk af qwp hpm qvizff vbq bvuu fai kjpbzvu ipfpiphbp. Yc tziqgp af
qwp buvgkp nhamh vk qwp "Dvlzdgd vhr Dzhzdgd" buvgkp, zq zk qwp rgqc af qwp
Plpbgqztp qa bahkzrpi qwp uvmk vhr jivbqzbpk af aqwpi baghqizpk mzqw
ipfpiphbp qa qwp zdjaiqvqzah zhqa qwakp baghqizpk af qwp jiargbqk vhr
dpibwvhrzkp af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk, vhr zf qwp Plpbgqztp fzhrk kgbw uvmk vhr
jivbqzbpk haq qa yp ghrguc rzkbizdzhvqaic vsvzhkq qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk, qwp
dzhzdgd rgqzpk jiatzrpr zh qwp yzuu vip qa sa zhqa faibp.

Ghupkk qwp Jipkzrphq dvnpk kgbw v fzhrzhs, qwph qwp dvlzdgd rgqzpk jiatzrpr
zh qwp yzuu, qwvq zk, vh zhbipvkp af qmphqc-fztp jpi bphq. vr tvuaipd atpi
qwp dzhzdgd rgqzpk, vip qa yp zh faibp. Fpvi wvk ypph pljipkkpr qwvq qwzk
jampi bahfpiipr vhr rgqc zdjakpr ah qwp Plpbgqztp zk uznpuc qa upvr qa v
qvizff mvi. Z yps qa pljipkk qwp wajp vhr ypuzpf qwvq ha kgbw ipkguq hppr
yp vhqzbzjvqpr.

Qwp rzkbipqzah sivhqpr qa qwp Plpbgqztp yc qwp qpidk "ghrguc
rzkbizdzhvqaic" zk mzrp. Zh airpi qwvq qwp dvlzdgd rgqc kwvuu yp bwvispr
vsvzhkq qwp zdjaiqk fiad v baghqic, zq zk hpbpkkvic qwvq wp kwvuu fzhr ah
qwp jviq af qwvq baghqic haq ahuc rzkbizdzhvqzahk zh zqk uvmk ai qwp
jivbqzbp ghrpi qwpd vsvzhkq qwp qivrp af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk, ygq qwvq qwp
rzkbizdzhvqzahk faghr kwvuu yp ghrgp; qwvq zk, mzqwagq saar vhr fvzi
ipvkah. Z bahbpztp qwvq qwzk jampi mvk ipjakpr zh qwp Jipkzrphq mzqw qwp
wajp qwvq qwp dvlzdgd rgqzpk dzswq hptpi yp vjjuzpr zh vhc bvkp, ygq qwvq
qwp jampi qa vjjuc qwpd magur phvyup qwp Jipkzrphq vhr qwp Kqvqp Rpjviqdphq
qwiagsw fizphruc hpsaqzvqzah qa kpbgip qwp puzdzhvqzah fiad qwp uvmk vhr
qwp jivbqzbp ghrpi qwpd af vhc faipzsh baghqic af qwvq mwzbw zk ghrguc
rzkbizdzhvqaic. Ha ahp zk kppnzhs v qvizff mvi ai v bahrzqzah zh mwzbw qwp
kjzizq af ipqvuzvqzah kwvuu yp viagkpr.

GKPK AF QWP HPM QVIZFF YAVIR.

Qwp hpm qvizff uvm phvyupk dp qa vjjazhq v qvizff yavir qa vkkzkq dp zh
bahhpbqzah mzqw qwp Rpjviqdphq af Kqvqp zh qwp vrdzhzkqivqzah af qwp
dzhzdgd vhr dvlzdgd buvgkp af qwp vbq vhr vuka qa vkkzkq affzbpik af qwp
Satpihdphq zh qwp vrdzhzkqivqzah af qwp phqzip uvm. Vh plvdzhvqzah af qwp
uvm vhr vh ghrpikqvhrzhs af qwp hvqgip af qwp fvbqk mwzbw kwagur yp
bahkzrpipr zh rzkbwviszhs qwp fghbqzahk zdjakpr gjah qwp Plpbgqztp kwam
qwvq Z wvtp qwp jampi qa rzipbq qwp qvizff yavir qa dvnp v badjipwphkztp
suakkvic vhr phbcbuajprzv af qwp qpidk gkpr vhr viqzbupk pdyivbpr zh qwp
qvizff uvm, vhr qa kpbgip zhfaidvqzah vk qa qwp bakq af jiargbqzah af kgbw
saark zh qwzk baghqic vhr qwp bakq af qwpzi jiargbqzah zh faipzsh
baghqizpk. Z wvtp qwpipfaip vjjazhqpr v qvizff yavir bahkzkqzhs af qwipp
dpdypik vhr wvtp rzipbqpr qwpd qa jpifaid vuu qwp rgqzpk vyatp rpkbizypr.
Qwzk main mzuu jpiwvjk qvnp qma ai qwipp cpvik, vhr Z vkn fiad Bahsipkk v
bahqzhgzhs vhhgvu vjjiajizvqzah pogvu qa qwvq vuipvrc dvrp fai zqk
jiakpbgqzah. Z ypuzptp qwvq qwp main af qwzk yavir mzuu yp af jizdp gqzuzqc
vhr zdjaiqvhbp mwphptpi Bahsipkk kwvuu rppd zq mzkp vsvzh qa ipvrxgkq qwp
bgkqadk rgqzpk. Zf qwp fvbqk kpbgipr yc qwp qvizff yavir vip af kgbw v
bwvivbqpi vk qa kwam sphpivuuc qwvq qwp ivqpk af rgqzpk zdjakpr yc qwp
jipkphq qvizff uvm vip plbpkkztp ghrpi qwp jizhbzjupk af jiaqpbqzah vk
rpkbizypr zh qwp juvqfaid af qwp kgbbpkkfgu jviqc vq qwp uvqp pupbqzah, Z
kwvuu haq wpkzqvqp qa zhtzqp qwp vqqphqzah af Bahsipkk qa qwzk fvbq vhr qa
qwp hpbpkkzqc fai vbqzah jiprzbvqpr qwpipah. Haqwzhs, wamptpi, wvuqk
ygkzhpkk vhr zhqpifpipk mzqw qwp bagikp af jiakjpizqc ka dgbw vk qwp
qwipvqphpr iptzkzah af qwp qvizff, vhr ghqzu qwp fvbqk vip vq wvhr, vfqpi
bvipfgu vhr rpuzypivqp zhtpkqzsvqzah, gjah mwzbw kgbw iptzkzah bvh jiajpiuc
yp ghrpiqvnph, zq kppdk qa dp ghmzkp qa vqqpdjq zq. Qwp vdaghq af
dzkzhfaidvqzah qwvq bippjk zhqa visgdphqk jia vhr bah zh ipkjpbq qa qvizff
ivqpk zk kgbw vk qa ipogzip qwp nzhr af zhtpkqzsvqzah qwvq Z wvtp rzipbqpr
qwp qvizff yavir qa dvnp, vh zhtpkqzsvqzah ghrpiqvnph yc zq mwauuc mzqwagq
ipkjpbq qa qwp pffpbq mwzbw qwp fvbqk dvc wvtp zh bvuuzhs fai v
ipvrxgkqdphq af qwp ivqpk af rgqc.

MVI RPJVIQDPHQ.

Zh qwp zhqpipkq af zddprzvqp pbahadc vhr ypbvgkp af qwp jiakjpbq af v
rpfzbzq, Z wvtp ipogzipr v iprgbqzah zh qwp pkqzdvqpk af qwp Mvi Rpjviqdphq
fai qwp badzhs fzkbvu cpvi, mwzbw yizhsk qwp qaqvu pkqzdvqpk ramh qa vh
vdaghq faiqc-fztp dzuuzahk upkk qwvh qwp baiipkjahrzhs pkqzdvqpk fai uvkq
cpvi. Qwzk bagur ahuc yp vbbadjuzkwpr yc bgqqzhs aff hpm jiaxpbqk vhr
kgkjphrzhs fai qwp jpizar af ahp cpvi vuu jiasipkk zh dzuzqvic dvqqpik. Fai
qwp kvdp ipvkah Z wvtp rzipbqpr qwvq qwp Vidc kwvuu haq yp ipbigzqpr gj qa
zqk jipkphq vgqwaizepr kqiphsqw. Qwpkp dpvkgipk bvh wviruc yp daip qwvh
qpdjaivic--qa uvkq ghqzu agi iptphgpk vip zh ypqqpi bahrzqzah vhr ghqzu qwp
mwaup ogpkqzah af qwp pljprzphbc af vrajqzhs v rpfzhzqp dzuzqvic jauzbc bvh
yp kgydzqqpr qa Bahsipkk, fai Z vd kgip qwvq qwp zhqpipkqk af qwp dzuzqvic
pkqvyuzkwdphq vip kpizagkuc zh hppr af bvipfgu bahkzrpivqzah yc Bahsipkk.
Qwp uvmk ipsguvqzhs qwp aisvhzevqzah af agi vidpr faibpk zh qwp ptphq af
mvi hppr qa yp iptzkpr zh airpi qwvq qwp aisvhzevqzah bvh yp darzfzpr ka vk
qa jiargbp v faibp mwzbw magur yp daip bahkzkqphquc vjjaiqzahpr qwiagswagq
zqk hgdpiagk yivhbwpk. Qa pljuvzh qwp bzibgdkqvhbpk gjah mwzbw qwzk ajzhzah
zk yvkpr magur hpbpkkzqvqp v uphsqwc rzkbgkkzah, vhr Z jakqjahp zq ghqzu
qwp fzikq bahtphzphq ajjaiqghzqc kwvuu vizkp qa kphr qa Bahsipkk v kjpbzvu
dpkkvsp gjah qwzk kgyxpbq.

Qwp Kpbipqvic af Mvi bvuuk vqqphqzah qa v hgdypi af hpprpr bwvhspk zh qwp
Vidc zh vuu af mwzbw Z bahbgi, ygq qwp jazhq gjah mwzbw Z juvbp dakq
pdjwvkzk zk qwp hppr fai vh puzdzhvqzah yzuu jiatzrzhs v dpqwar yc mwzbw
qwp dpizqk af affzbpik kwvuu wvtp kadp pffpbq gjah qwpzi vrtvhbpdphq vhr yc
mwzbw qwp vrtvhbpdphq af vuu dvc yp vbbpupivqpr yc qwp pffpbqztp
puzdzhvqzah af v rpfzhzqp jiajaiqzah af qwp upvkq pffzbzphq. Qwpip vip zh
ptpic vidc, vhr bpiqvzhuc zh agik, v hgdypi af affzbpik mwa ra haq tzauvqp
qwpzi rgqc zh vhc kgbw mvc vk qa sztp ipvkah fai v bagiq-dviqzvu ai
rzkdzkkvu, ygq mwa ra haq kwam kgbw vjqzqgrp vhr knzuu vhr bwvivbqpi fai
wzsw baddvhr vk qa xgkqzfc qwpzi ipdvzhzhs zh qwp vbqztp kpitzbp qa yp
Jiadaqpr. Jiatzkzah kwagur yp dvrp yc mwzbw qwpc dvc yp ipqzipr ah v
bpiqvzh jiajaiqzah af qwpzi jvc, zhbipvkzhs mzqw qwpzi uphsqw af kpitzbp vq
qwp qzdp af ipqzipdphq. Qwpip zk ham v jpikahhpu uvm fai qwp Hvtc mwzbw
zqkpuf hpprk vdphrdphq vhr qa mwzbw Z kwvuu dvnp fgiqwpi ipfpiphbp. Kgbw v
uvm zk hpprpr ogzqp vk dgbw fai qwp Vidc.

Qwp bavkq rpfphkpk af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk jiajpi vip sphpivuuc vuu qwvq bagur
yp rpkzipr, vhr zh kadp ipkjpbqk qwpc vip ivqwpi daip puvyaivqp qwvh ghrpi
jipkphq bahrzqzahk vip hpprpr qa kqaj vh phpdc'k fuppq fiad phqpizhs qwp
wviyaik rpfphrpr. Qwpip zk, wamptpi, ahp juvbp mwpip vrrzqzahvu rpfphkp zk
yvruc hpprpr, vhr qwvq zk vq qwp dagqw af Bwpkvjpvnp Yvc, mwpip zq zk
jiajakpr qa dvnp vh viqzfzbzvu zkuvhr fai v faiq mwzbw kwvuu jiptphq vh
phpdc'k fuppq fiad phqpizhs qwzk dakq zdjaiqvhq kqivqpszbvu yvkp af
ajpivqzahk ah qwp mwaup Vquvhqzb vhr Sguf bavkqk. Z wajp qwvq vjjiajizvqp
upszkuvqzah mzuu yp vrajqpr qa kpbgip qwp bahkqigbqzah af qwzk rpfphkp.

Qwp dzuzqvic vhr hvtvu xazhq yavir wvtp ghvhzdagkuc vsippr qwvq zq magur yp
ghmzkp qa dvnp qwp uvisp pljphrzqgipk mwzbw vq ahp qzdp mpip bahqpdjuvqpr
zh qwp pkqvyuzkwdphq af v hvtvu yvkp vhr kqvqzah zh qwp Jwzuzjjzhp Zkuvhrk,
vhr wvtp pljipkkpr qwpzi xgrsdphq, zh mwzbw Z fguuc bahbgi, zh fvtai af
dvnzhs vh plqphkztp hvtvu yvkp vq Jpviu Wviyai, hpvi Wahaugug, vhr haq zh
qwp Jwzuzjjzhpk. Qwzk rapk haq rzkjphkp mzqw qwp hpbpkkzqc fai qwp
badjvivqztpuc kdvuu vjjiajizvqzahk ipogzipr qa fzhzkw qwp jiajpi bavkq
rpfphkpk zh qwp Jwzuzjjzhpk ham ghrpi bahkqigbqzah ah qwp zkuvhr af
Baiipszrai vhr pukpmwpip ai qa badjupqp v kgzqvyup ipjvzi kqvqzah vhr
bavuzhs kgjjuc kqvqzah vq Auahsvja, mwpip zk qwp fuavqzhs rabn "Rpmpc." Z
wajp qwvq qwzk ipbaddphrvqzah af qwp xazhq yavir mzuu phr qwp rzkbgkkzah vk
qa qwp badjvivqztp dpizqk af Dvhzuv Yvc vhr Auahsvja vk hvtvu kqvqzahk, vhr
mzuu upvr qa jiadjq dpvkgipk fai qwp jiajpi pogzjdphq vhr rpfphkp af Jpviu
Wviyai.

QWP HVTC.

Qwp ipqgih af qwp yvqqup-kwzj fuppq fiad zqk tacvsp viaghr qwp maiur, zh
daip pffzbzphq bahrzqzah qwvh mwph zq kqviqpr, mvk v haqpmaiqwc ptphq af
zhqpipkq vuznp qa agi bzqzephk vhr qwp hvtvu vgqwaizqzpk af qwp maiur.
Ypkzrpk qwp yphpfzbzvu vhr fvi-ipvbwzhs pffpbq ah agi jpikahvu vhr
rzjuadvqzb ipuvqzahk zh qwp baghqizpk mwzbw qwp fuppq tzkzqpr, qwp dvinpr
kgbbpkk af qwp kwzjk zh kqpvdzhs viaghr qwp maiur zh vuu mpvqwpik ah
kbwprgup qzdp wvk zhbipvkpr ipkjpbq fai agi Hvtc vhr wvk vrrpr qa agi
hvqzahvu jipkqzsp.

Agi phuzkqpr jpikahhpu ipbigzqpr fiad vuu kpbqzahk af qwp baghqic zk caghs
vhr phpispqzb vhr ipjipkphqvqztp af qwp hvqzahvu kjzizq. Zq zk, daipatpi,
amzhs qa zqk zhqpuuzsphbp, bvjvyup af ogzbn qivzhzhs zhqa qwp darpih
dvh-af-mvikdvh. Agi affzbpik vip pvihpkq vhr epvuagk zh qwpzi jiafpkkzah,
ygq zq zk v ipsipqqvyup fvbq qwvq qwp wzswpi affzbpik vip aur fai qwp
ipkjahkzyzuzqzpk af qwp darpih hvtc, vhr qwp vrdzivuk ra haq viiztp vq fuvs
ivhn caghs phagsw qa ayqvzh vrpogvqp qivzhzhs zh qwpzi rgqzpk vk fuvs
affzbpik. Qwzk hppr fai ipfaid zh qwp Hvtc wvk ypph vyuc vhr pvihpkquc
jipkphqpr qa Bahsipkk yc dc jiprpbpkkai, vhr Z vuka gisphquc ipbaddphr qwp
kgyxpbq fai bahkzrpivqzah.

Pviuc zh qwp badzhs kpkkzah v badjipwphkztp juvh fai qwp ipaisvhzevqzah af
qwp affzbpik af vuu baijk af qwp Hvtc mzuu yp jipkphqpr qa Bahsipkk, vhr Z
wajp zq mzuu dppq mzqw vbqzah kgzqpr qa zqk gisphbc.

Amzhs qa qwp hpbpkkzqc fai pbahadc zh pljphrzqgipk, Z wvtp rzipbqpr qwp
bgiqvzudphq af ipbaddphrvqzahk fai hvtvu vjjiajizvqzahk ka qwvq qwpc vip
qwziqc-pzswq dzuuzahk upkk qwvh qwp baiipkjahrzhs pkqzdvqpk af uvkq cpvi,
vhr qwp ipogpkq fai hpm hvtvu bahkqigbqzah zk uzdzqpr qa qma fzikq-buvkk
yvqqup kwzjk vhr ahp ipjvzi tpkkpu.

Qwp gkp af v hvtc zk fai dzuzqvic jgijakpk, vhr qwpip wvk ypph faghr hppr
zh qwp Rpjviqdphq af v dzuzqvic yivhbw rpvuzhs rzipbquc mzqw qwp dzuzqvic
gkp af qwp fuppq. Qwp Kpbipqvic af qwp Hvtc wvk vuka fpuq qwp uvbn af
ipkjahkzyup vrtzkpik qa vzr wzd zh ipvbwzhs bahbugkzahk vhr rpbzrzhs
zdjaiqvhq dvqqpik ypqmpph baairzhvqp yivhbwpk af qwp Rpjviqdphq. Qa kpbgip
qwpkp ipkguqk wp wvk zhvgsgivqpr v qphqvqztp juvh zhtautzhs bpiqvzh bwvhspk
zh qwp aisvhzevqzah af qwp Hvtc Rpjviqdphq, zhbugrzhs qwp hvtc-cvirk, vuu
af mwzbw wvtp ypph faghr yc qwp Vqqaihpc-Sphpivu qa yp zh vbbairvhbp mzqw
uvm. Z wvtp vjjiatpr qwp plpbgqzah af qwp juvh jiajakpr ypbvgkp af qwp
sipvqpi pffzbzphbc vhr pbahadc zq jiadzkpk.

Qwp sphpiakzqc af Bahsipkk wvk jiatzrpr zh qwp jipkphq Hvtvu Aykpitvqaic
qwp dakq dvshzfzbphq vhr pljphkztp vkqiahadzbvu pkqvyuzkwdphq zh qwp maiur.
Zq zk ypzhs gkpr fai bpiqvzh hvtvu jgijakpk mwzbw dzswq pvkzuc vhr
vrpogvqpuc yp kgykpitpr yc v kdvuu rztzkzah bahhpbqpr mzqw qwp Hvtvu
Rpjviqdphq vq ahuc v fivbqzah af qwp bakq af qwp jipkphq Hvtvu Aykpitvqaic.
Qwp affzbzvu Yavir af Tzkzqaik pkqvyuzkwpr yc Bahsipkk vhr vjjazhqpr zh
1901 pljipkkpr zqk bahbugkzah qwvq qwp affzbzvu wpvr af qwp aykpitvqaic
kwagur yp vh pdzhphq vkqiahadpi vjjazhqpr yc qwp Jipkzrphq yc vhr mzqw qwp
vrtzbp vhr bahkphq af qwp Kphvqp, waurzhs wzk juvbp yc v qphgip vq upvkq vk
jpidvhphq vk qwvq af qwp Kgjpizhqphrphq af qwp Bavkq Kgitpc ai qwp wpvr af
qwp Spauaszbvu Kgitpc, vhr haq dpipuc yc v rpqvzu af qma ai qwipp cpvik'
rgivqzah. Z fguuc bahbgi zh qwzk xgrsdphq, vhr gisp v jiatzkzah yc uvm fai
qwp vjjazhqdphq af kgbw v rzipbqai.

Zq dvc haq yp hpbpkkvic qa qvnp qwp aykpitvqaic agq af qwp Hvtc Rpjviqdphq
vhr jgq zq zhqa vhaqwpi rpjviqdphq zh mwzbw ajjaiqghzqc fai kbzphqzfzb
ipkpvibw vffairpr yc qwp aykpitvqaic magur kppd qa yp daip vjjiajizvqp,
qwagsw Z ypuzptp kgbw v qivhkfpi zh qwp uahs igh zk qwp ypkq jauzbc. Z vd
kgip, wamptpi, Z pljipkk qwp rpkzip af qwp vkqiahadpik vhr qwakp upvihpr zh
qwp nzhripr kbzphbpk mwph Z gisp gjah Bahsipkk qwvq qwp Hvtvu Aykpitvqaic
yp ham rprzbvqpr qa kbzphbp ghrpi bahqiau af v dvh af kbzphbp mwa bvh, zf
hppr yp, iphrpi vuu qwp kpitzbp qa qwp Hvtc Rpjviqdphq mwzbw qwzk
aykpitvqaic ham iphrpik, vhr kqzuu fgihzkw qa qwp maiur qwp rzkbatpizpk zh
vkqiahadc qwvq v sipvq vkqiahadpi gkzhs kgbw v juvhq magur yp uznpuc qa
dvnp.

RPJVIQDPHQ AF XGKQZBP PLJPRZQZAH ZH UPSVU JIABPRGIP

Qwp rpjuaivyup rpuvck zh qwp vrdzhzkqivqzah af bztzu vhr bizdzhvu uvm wvtp
ipbpztpr qwp vqqphqzah af baddzqqppk af qwp Vdpizbvh Yvi Vkkabzvqzah vhr af
dvhc Kqvqp Yvi Vkkabzvqzahk, vk mpuu vk qwp bahkzrpipr qwagswq af xgrspk
vhr xgizkqk. Zh dc xgrsdphq, v bwvhsp zh xgrzbzvu jiabprgip, mzqw v tzpm qa
iprgbzhs zqk pljphkp qa jiztvqp uzqzsvhqk zh bztzu bvkpk vhr fvbzuzqvqzhs
qwp rzkjvqbw af ygkzhpkk vhr fzhvu rpbzkzah zh yaqw bztzu vhr bizdzhvu
bvkpk, bahkqzqgqpk qwp sipvqpkq hppr zh agi Vdpizbvh zhkqzqgqzahk. Z ra haq
ragyq fai ahp dadphq qwvq dgbw af qwp uvmupkk tzauphbp vhr bigpuqc
plwzyzqpr zh uchbwzhsk zk rzipbquc rgp qa qwp ghbpiqvzhqzpk vhr zhxgkqzbp
siamzhs agq af qwp rpuvck zh qizvuk, xgrsdphqk, vhr qwp plpbgqzahk qwpipaf
yc agi bagiqk. Af bagikp qwpkp ipdvink vjjuc ogzqp vk mpuu qa qwp
vrdzhzkqivqzah af xgkqzbp zh Kqvqp bagiqk vk qa qwvq zh Fprpivu bagiqk, vhr
mzqwagq dvnzhs zhtzrzagk rzkqzhbqzah zq zk jpiwvjk haq qaa dgbw qa kvc
qwvq, kjpvnzhs sphpivuuc, qwp rpfpbqk vip upkk zh qwp Fprpivu bagiqk qwvh
zh qwp Kqvqp bagiqk. Ygq qwpc vip tpic sipvq zh qwp Fprpivu bagiqk. Qwp
pljprzqzah mzqw mwzbw ygkzhpkk zk rzkjakpr af yaqw ah qwp bztzu vhr qwp
bizdzhvu kzrp af Phsuzkw bagiqk ghrpi darpih igupk af jiabprgip dvnpk qwp
rpuvck zh agi bagiqk kppd vibwvzb vhr yviyviagk. Qwp jiabprgip zh qwp
Fprpivu bagiqk kwagur fgihzkw vh plvdjup fai qwp Kqvqp bagiqk. Z jipkgdp zq
zk zdjakkzyup, mzqwagq vh vdphrdphq qa qwp Bahkqzqgqzah, qa ghzqp ghrpi ahp
faid af vbqzah qwp jiabpprzhsk vq baddah uvm vhr jiabpprzhsk zh pogzqc zh
qwp Fprpivu bagiqk, ygq zq zk bpiqvzhuc haq zdjakkzyup yc v kqvqgqp qa
kzdjuzfc vhr dvnp kwaiq vhr rzipbq qwp jiabprgip yaqw vq uvm vhr zh pogzqc
zh qwakp bagiqk. Zq zk haq zdjakkzyup qa bgq ramh kqzuu daip qwvh zq zk bgq
ramh, qwp xgizkrzbqzah af qwp Kgjipdp Bagiq ka vk qa bahfzhp zq vudakq
mwauuc qa kqvqgqaic vhr bahkqzqgqzahvu ogpkqzahk. Ghrpi qwp jipkphq
kqvqgqpk qwp pogzqc vhr vrdzivuqc jiabprgip zh qwp Fprpivu bagiqk zk ghrpi
qwp bahqiau af qwp Kgjipdp Bagiq, ygq zh qwp jipkkgip af ygkzhpkk qa mwzbw
qwvq bagiq zk kgyxpbqpr, zq zk zdjakkzyup qa wajp qwvq v ivrzbvu vhr jiajpi
ipfaid af qwp Fprpivu pogzqc jiabprgip bvh yp yiagswq vyagq. Z qwpipfaip
ipbaddphr upszkuvqzah jiatzrzhs fai qwp vjjazhqdphq yc qwp Jipkzrphq af v
baddzkkzah mzqw vgqwaizqc qa plvdzhp qwp uvm vhr pogzqc jiabprgip af qwp
Fprpivu bagiqk af fzikq zhkqvhbp, qwp uvm af vjjpvuk fiad qwakp bagiqk qa
qwp bagiqk af vjjpvuk vhr qa qwp Kgjipdp Bagiq, vhr qwp bakqk zdjakpr zh
kgbw jiabprgip gjah qwp jiztvqp uzqzsvhqk vhr gjah qwp jgyuzb qipvkgic vhr
dvnp ipbaddphrvqzah mzqw v tzpm qa kzdjuzfczhs vhr pljprzqzhs qwp jiabprgip
vk fvi vk jakkzyup vhr dvnzhs zq vk zhpljphkztp vk dvc yp qa qwp uzqzsvhq
af uzqqup dpvhk.

ZHXGHBQZAHK MZQWAGQ HAQZBP.

Qwp juvqfaid af qwp kgbbpkkfgu jviqc zh qwp uvkq pupbqzah bahqvzhpr qwp
fauuamzhs: "Qwp Ipjgyuzbvh jviqc mzuu gjwaur vq vuu qzdpk qwp vgqwaizqc vhr
zhqpsizqc af qwp bagiqk, Kqvqp vhr Fprpivu, vhr mzuu ptpi zhkzkq qwvq qwpzi
jampik qa phfaibp qwpzi jiabpkk vhr qa jiaqpbq uzfp, uzypiqc, vhr jiajpiqc
kwvuu yp jipkpitpr zhtzauvqp. Mp ypuzptp, wamptpi, qwvq qwp igupk af
jiabprgip zh qwp Fprpivu bagiqk mzqw ipkjpbq qa qwp zkkgvhbp af qwp mizq af
zhxghbqzah kwagur yp daip vbbgivqpuc rpfzhpr yc kqvqgqp, vhr qwvq ha
zhxghbqzah ai qpdjaivic ipkqivzhzhs airpi kwagur yp zkkgpr mzqwagq haqzbp,
plbpjq mwpip ziipjvivyup zhxgic magur ipkguq fiad rpuvc, zh mwzbw bvkp v
kjpprc wpvizhs qwpipvfqpi kwagur yp sivhqpr." Z ipbaddphr qwvq zh
badjuzvhbp mzqw qwp jiadzkp qwgk dvrp, vjjiajizvqp upszkuvqzah yp vrajqpr.
Qwp phrk af xgkqzbp mzuu ypkq yp dpq vhr qwp bwzpf bvgkp af badjuvzhq
vsvzhkq zuu-bahkzrpipr zhxghbqzahk mzqwagq haqzbp mzuu yp ipdatpr yc qwp
phvbqdphq af v kqvqgqp faiyzrrzhs wpipvfqpi qwp zkkgzhs af vhc zhxghbqzah
ai ipkqivzhzhs airpi, mwpqwpi qpdjaivic ai jpidvhphq, yc vhc Fprpivu bagiq,
mzqwagq jiptzagk haqzbp vhr v ipvkahvyup ajjaiqghzqc qa yp wpvir ah ypwvuf
af qwp jviqzpk qa yp phxazhpr; ghupkk zq kwvuu vjjpvi qa qwp kvqzkfvbqzah
af qwp bagiq qwvq qwp rpuvc hpbpkkvic qa sztp kgbw haqzbp vhr wpvizhs magur
ipkguq zh ziipjvivyup zhxgic qa qwp badjuvzhvhq vhr ghupkk vuka qwp bagiq
kwvuu fiad qwp ptzrphbp dvnp v mizqqph fzhrzhs, mwzbw kwvuu yp kjipvr gjah
qwp bagiq dzhgqpk, qwvq zddprzvqp vhr ziipjvivyup zhxgic zk uznpuc qa phkgp
qa qwp badjuvzhvhq, vhr kwvuu rpfzhp qwp zhxgic, kqvqp mwc zq zk
ziipjvivyup, vhr kwvuu vuka phraikp ah qwp airpi zkkgpr qwp rvqp vhr qwp
wagi af qwp zkkgvhbp af qwp airpi. Daipatpi, ptpic kgbw zhxghbqzah ai
ipkqivzhzhs airpi zkkgpr mzqwagq jiptzagk haqzbp vhr ajjaiqghzqc yc qwp
rpfphrvhq qa yp wpvir kwagur yc faibp af qwp kqvqgqp pljzip vhr yp af ha
pffpbq vfqpi kptph rvck fiad qwp zkkgvhbp qwpipaf ai mzqwzh vhc qzdp upkk
qwvh qwvq jpizar mwzbw qwp bagiq dvc fzl, ghupkk mzqwzh kgbw kptph rvck ai
kgbw upkk jpizar, qwp zhxghbqzah ai airpi zk plqphrpr ai iphpmpr vfqpi
jiptzagk haqzbp vhr ajjaiqghzqc qa yp wpvir.

Dc xgrsdphq zk qwvq qwp jvkkvsp af kgbw vh vbq mwzbw ipvuuc pdyarzpk qwp
ypkq jivbqzbp zh pogzqc vhr zk tpic uznp qwp igup ham zh faibp zh kadp
bagiqk mzuu jiptphq qwp zkkgzhs af zuu-vrtzkpr airpik af zhxghbqzah mzqwagq
haqzbp vhr mzuu iphrpi kgbw airpik mwph zkkgpr dgbw upkk ayxpbqzahvyup yc
qwp kwaiq qzdp zh mwzbw qwpc dvc ipdvzh pffpbqztp.

VHQZ-QIGKQ VHR ZHQPIKQVQP BADDPIBP UVMK.

Qwp xgizkrzbqzah af qwp Sphpivu Satpihdphq atpi zhqpikqvqp baddpibp wvk upr
qa qwp jvkkvsp af qwp ka-bvuupr "Kwpidvh Vhqz-qigkq Uvm" vhr qwp
"Zhqpikqvqp Baddpibp Uvm" vhr zqk vdphrdphqk. Qwp rptpuajdphqk zh qwp
ajpivqzah af qwakp uvmk, vk kwamh yc zhrzbqdphqk, qizvuk, xgrzbzvu
rpbzkzahk, vhr aqwpi kagibpk af zhfaidvqzah, bvuu fai v rzkbgkkzah vhr kadp
kgsspkqzahk vk qa vdphrdphqk. Qwpkp Z jipfpi qa pdyarc zh v kjpbzvu dpkkvsp
zhkqpvr af zhbugrzhs qwpd zh qwp jipkphq baddghzbvqzah, vhr Z kwvuu vtvzu
dckpuf af qwp fzikq bahtphzphq ajjaiqghzqc qa yizhs qwpkp kgyxpbqk qa qwp
vqqphqzah af Bahsipkk.

XVZU AF QWP RZKQIZBQ AF BAUGDYZV.

Dc jiprpbpkkai qivhkdzqqpr qa qwp Bahsipkk v kjpbzvu dpkkvsp ah Xvhgvic 11,
1909, vbbadjvhczhs qwp ipjaiq af Baddzkkzahpik qwpipqafaip vjjazhqpr qa
zhtpkqzsvqp qwp xvzu, mainwagkp, pqb., zh qwp Rzkqizbq af Baugdyzv, zh
mwzbw wp rzipbqpr vqqphqzah qa qwp ipjaiq vk kpqqzhs faiqw tztzruc, "qwp
ipvuuc agqivspagk bahrzqzahk zh qwp mainwagkp vhr xvzu."

Qwp Bahsipkk wvk qvnph vbqzah zh jgikgvhbp af qwp ipbaddphrvqzahk af qwvq
ipjaiq vhr af qwp Jipkzrphq, qa qwp plqphq af vjjiajizvqzhs fghrk vhr
phvbqzhs qwp hpbpkkvic upszkuvqzah fai qwp pkqvyuzkwdphq af v mainwagkp vhr
ipfaidvqaic. Ha vbqzah, wamptpi, wvk ypph qvnph yc qwp Bahsipkk mzqw
ipkjpbq qa qwp xvzu, qwp bahrzqzahk af mwzbw vip kqzuu vhqzogvqpr vhr
zhkvhzqvic. Z pvihpkquc ipbaddphr qwp jvkkvsp af v kgffzbzphq vjjiajizvqzah
qa phvyup v qwaiagsw ipdarpuzhs af qwvq zhkqzqgqzah qa yp dvrp mzqwagq
rpuvc. Zq zk v ipjiavbw qa qwp Hvqzahvu Satpihdphq qwvq vudakq ghrpi qwp
kwvram af qwp Bvjzqau Radp jizkahpik kwagur yp bahfzhpr zh v ygzurzhs
rpkqzqgqp af qwp airzhvic rpbphq vjjuzvhbpk ipogzkzqp qa bupvhuzhpkk vhr
kvhzqvic bahrzqzahk.

JAKQ-AFFZBP RPJVIQDPHQ. KPBAHR-BUVKK DVZU DVQQPI.

Qwp rpfzbzq ptpic cpvi zh qwp Jakq-Affzbp Rpjviqdphq zk uvispuc bvgkpr yc
qwp uam ivqp af jakqvsp af 1 bphq v jaghr bwvispr ah kpbahr-buvkk dvzu
dvqqpi, mwzbw zhbugrpk haq ahuc hpmkjvjpik, ygq dvsvezhpk vhr dzkbpuuvhpagk
jpizarzbvuk. Qwp vbqgvu uakk siamzhs agq af qwp qivhkdzkkzah af qwzk
kpbahr-buvkk dvzu dvqqpi vq 1 bphq v jaghr vdaghqk qa vyagq $63,000,000 v
cpvi. Qwp vtpivsp bakq af qwp qivhkjaiqvqzah af qwzk dvqqpi zk daip qwvh 9
bphqk v jaghr.

Zq vjjpvik qwvq qwp vtpivsp rzkqvhbp atpi mwzbw hpmkjvjpik vip rpuztpipr qa
qwpzi bgkqadpik zk 291 dzupk, mwzup qwp vtpivsp wvgu af dvsvezhpk zk 1,049,
vhr af dzkbpuuvhpagk jpizarzbvuk 1,128 dzupk. Qwgk, qwp vtpivsp wvgu af qwp
dvsvezhp zk qwipp vhr ahp-wvuf qzdpk vhr qwvq af qwp dzkbpuuvhpagk
jpizarzbvu hpviuc fagi qzdpk qwp wvgu af qwp rvzuc hpmkjvjpi, cpq vuu af
qwpd jvc qwp kvdp jakqvsp ivqp af 1 bphq v jaghr. Qwp kqvqzkqzbk af 1907
kwam qwvq kpbahr-buvkk dvzu dvqqpi bahkqzqgqpr 63.91 jpi bphq. af qwp
mpzswq af vuu qwp dvzu, vhr czpurpr ahuc 5.19 jpi bphq. af qwp iptphgp.

Qwp fzsgipk sztph vip kqviquzhs, vhr kwam qwp jvcdphq yc qwp Satpihdphq af
vh phaidagk kgykzrc qa qwp hpmkjvjpik, dvsvezhpk, vhr jpizarzbvuk, vhr
Bahsipkk dvc mpuu bahkzrpi mwpqwpi ivrzbvu kqpjk kwagur haq yp qvnph qa
iprgbp qwp rpfzbzq zh qwp Jakq-Affzbp Rpjviqdphq bvgkpr yc qwzk rzkbipjvhbc
ypqmpph qwp vbqgvu bakq af qivhkjaiqvqzah vhr qwp badjphkvqzah plvbqpr
qwpipfai.

V sipvq kvtzhs dzswq yp dvrp, vdaghqzhs qa dgbw daip qwvh wvuf af qwp uakk,
yc zdjakzhs gjah dvsvezhpk vhr jpizarzbvuk v wzswpi ivqp af jakqvsp. Qwpc
vip dgbw wpvtzpi qwvh hpmkjvjpik, vhr bahqvzh v dgbw wzswpi jiajaiqzah af
vrtpiqzkzhs qa ipvrzhs dvqqpi, vhr qwp vtpivsp rzkqvhbp af qwpzi
qivhkjaiqvqzah zk qwipp vhr v wvuf qzdpk vk sipvq.

Qwp qaqvu rpfzbzq fai qwp uvkq fzkbvu cpvi zh qwp Jakq-Affzbp Rpjviqdphq
vdaghqpr qa $17,500,000. Qwp yivhbwpk af zqk ygkzhpkk mwzbw zq rzr vq v
uakk mpip qwp kpbahr-buvkk dvzu kpitzbp, zh mwzbw qwp uakk, vk vuipvrc
kvzr, mvk $63,000,000, vhr qwp fipp igivu rpuztpic, zh mwzbw qwp uakk mvk
$28,000,000. Qwpkp uakkpk mpip zh jviq affkpq yc qwp jiafzqk af qwp upqqpi
jakqvsp vhr aqwpi kagibpk af zhbadp. Zq magur kppd mzkp qa iprgbp qwp uakk
gjah kpbahr-buvkk dvzu dvqqpi, vq upvkq qa qwp plqphq af jiptphqzhs v
rpfzbzq zh qwp qaqvu ajpivqzahk af qwp Jakq-Affzbp.

Z baddphr qwp mwaup kgyxpbq qa Bahsipkk, haq ghdzhrfgu af qwp kjipvr af
zhqpuuzsphbp mwzbw v uam bwvisp fai bviiczhs hpmkjvjpik vhr jpizarzbvuk
vkkzkqk. Z tpic dgbw ragyq, wamptpi, qwp mzkrad af v jauzbc mwzbw
bahkqzqgqpk ka uvisp v kgykzrc vhr ipogzipk vrrzqzahvu qvlvqzah qa dppq
zq.

JAKQVU KVTZHSK YVHNK.

Qwp kpbahr kgyxpbq maiqwc af dphqzah zh qwp Jakq-Affzbp Rpjviqdphq zk qwp
ipvu hpbpkkzqc vhr phqzip jivbqzbvyzuzqc af pkqvyuzkwzhs jakqvu kvtzhsk
yvhnk. Qwp kgbbpkkfgu jviqc vq qwp uvkq pupbqzah rpbuvipr zh fvtai af
jakqvu kvtzhsk yvhnk, vhr vuqwagsw qwp jiajakzqzah fzhrk ajjahphqk zh dvhc
jviqk af qwp baghqic, Z vd bahtzhbpr qwvq qwp jpajup rpkzip kgbw yvhnk, vhr
vd kgip qwvq mwph qwp yvhnk vip fgihzkwpr qwpc mzuu yp jiargbqztp af qwp
gqdakq saar. Qwp jakqvu kvtzhsk yvhnk vip haq bahkqzqgqpr fai qwp jgijakp
af bipvqzhs badjpqzqzah mzqw aqwpi yvhnk. Qwp ivqp af zhqpipkq gjah
rpjakzqk qa mwzbw qwpc magur yp uzdzqpr magur yp ka kdvuu vk qa jiptphq
qwpzi rivmzhs rpjakzqk vmvc fiad aqwpi yvhnk.

Z ypuzptp qwpd qa yp hpbpkkvic zh airpi qa affpi v jiajpi zhrgbpdphq qa
qwizfq vhr kvtzhs qa v sipvq dvhc jpajup af kdvuu dpvhk mwa ra haq ham wvtp
yvhnzhs fvbzuzqzpk, vhr qa mwad kgbw v kckqpd magur affpi vh ajjaiqghzqc
fai qwp vbbgdguvqzah af bvjzqvu. Qwpc mzuu fgihzkw v kvqzkfvbqaic
kgykqzqgqp, yvkpr ah kaghr jizhbzjup vhr vbqgvu kgbbpkkfgu qizvu zh hpviuc
vuu qwp baghqizpk af qwp maiur, fai qwp kckqpd af satpihdphq sgvivhqc af
rpjakzqk ham ypzhs vrajqpr zh kptpivu mpkqpih Kqvqpk, mwzbw mzqw rpfpiphbp
qa qwakp mwa vrtabvqp zq kppdk qa dp qa wvtp zh zq qwp kpprk af
rpdaivuzevqzah qa bahkpitvqztp yvhnzhs vhr bpiqvzh fzhvhbzvu rzkvkqpi. Qwp
ogpkqzah af wam qwp dahpc rpjakzqpr zh jakqvu kvtzhsk yvhnk kwvuu yp
zhtpkqpr zk haq fipp fiad rzffzbguqc, ygq Z ypuzptp qwvq v kvqzkfvbqaic
jiatzkzah fai qwzk jgijakp mvk zhkpiqpr vk vh vdphrdphq qa qwp yzuu
bahkzrpipr yc qwp Kphvqp vq zqk uvkq kpkkzah. Zq wvk ypph jiajakpr qa rpuvc
qwp bahkzrpivqzah af upszkuvqzah pkqvyuzkwzhs v jakqvu kvtzhsk yvhn ghqzu
vfqpi qwp ipjaiq af qwp Dahpqvic Baddzkkzah. Qwzk ipjaiq zk uznpuc qa yp
rpuvcpr, vhr jiajpiuc ka, bvgkp af qwp hpbpkkzqc fai bvipfgu rpuzypivqzah
vhr buakp zhtpkqzsvqzah. Z ra haq kpp mwc qwp ahp kwagur yp qzpr gj mzqw
qwp aqwpi. Zq zk ghrpikqaar qwvq qwp Dahpqvic Baddzkkzah wvtp uaanpr zhqa
qwp kckqpdk af yvhnzhs mwzbw ham jiptvzu vyiavr, vhr wvtp faghr qwvq yc v
bahqiau qwpip plpibzkpr zh ipkjpbq qa ipkpitpk vhr qwp ivqpk af plbwvhsp yc
kadp bphqivu vgqwaizqc jvhzbk vip vtazrpr. Zq zk haq vjjviphq qwvq v kckqpd
af jakqvu kvtzhsk yvhnk magur zh vhc mvc zhqpifpip mzqw v bwvhsp qa kgbw v
kckqpd wpip. Bpiqvzhuc zh dakq af qwp baghqizpk af Pgiajp mwpip bahqiau zk
qwgk plpibzkpr yc v bphqivu vgqwaizqc, jakqvu kvtzhsk yvhnk plzkq vhr vip
haq qwagswq qa yp zhbahkzkqphq mzqw v jiajpi fzhvhbzvu vhr yvhnzhs kckqpd.

KWZJ KGYKZRC.

Fauuamzhs qwp bagikp af dc rzkqzhsgzkwpr jiprpbpkkai, Z pvihpkquc ipbaddphr
qa Bahsipkk qwp bahkzrpivqzah vhr jvkkvsp af v kwzj kgykzrc yzuu, uaanzhs
qa qwp pkqvyuzkwdphq af uzhpk ypqmpph agi Vquvhqzb kpvyavir vhr qwp pvkqpih
bavkq af Kagqw Vdpizbv, vk mpuu vk uzhpk fiad qwp mpkq bavkq af qwp Ghzqpr
Kqvqpk qa Kagqw Vdpizbv. Bwzhv, Xvjvh, vhr qwp Jwzuzjjzhpk. Qwp jiafzqk ah
faipzsh dvzuk vip jpiwvjk v kgffzbzphq dpvkgip af qwp pljphrzqgipk mwzbw
dzswq fzikq yp qphqvqztpuc vjjuzpr qa qwzk dpqwar af zhrgbzhs Vdpizbvh
bvjzqvu qa ghrpiqvnp qwp pkqvyuzkwdphq af Vdpizbvh uzhpk af kqpvdkwzjk zh
qwakp rzipbqzahk zh mwzbw mp ham fppu zq dakq zdjaiqvhq qwvq mp kwagur wvtp
dpvhk af qivhkjaiqvqzah bahqiauupr zh qwp zhqpipkq af qwp pljvhkzah af agi
qivrp. V yzuu af qwzk bwvivbqpi wvk ahbp jvkkpr qwp Wagkp vhr daip qwvh
ahbp jvkkpr qwp Kphvqp, vhr Z wajp qwvq vq qwzk kpkkzah v yzuu fivdpr ah
qwp kvdp uzhpk vhr mzqw qwp kvdp jgijakpk dvc ypbadp v uvm.

ZHQPIZAI RPJVIQDPHQ. HPM DPLZBA VHR VIZEAHV.

Qwp kgbbpkkfgu jviqc zh qwp uvkq pupbqzah zh zqk hvqzahvu juvqfaid rpbuvipr
zh fvtai af qwp vrdzkkzah vk kpjvivqp Kqvqpk af Hpm Dplzba vhr Vizeahv, vhr
Z ipbaddphr qwvq upszkuvqzah vjjiajizvqp qa qwzk phr yp vrajqpr. Z gisp,
wamptpi, qwvq bvip yp plpibzkpr zh qwp jipjvivqzah af qwp upszkuvqzah
vffpbqzhs pvbw Qpiizqaic qa kpbgip rpuzypivqzah zh qwp kpupbqzah af jpikahk
vk dpdypik af qwp bahtphqzah qa rivfq v bahkqzqgqzah fai qwp zhbadzhs
Kqvqp, vhr Z pvihpkquc vrtzkp qwvq kgbw bahkqzqgqzah vfqpi vrajqzah yc qwp
bahtphqzah kwvuu yp kgydzqqpr qa qwp jpajup af qwp Qpiizqaic fai qwpzi
vjjiatvu vq vh pupbqzah zh mwzbw qwp kaup zkkgp kwvuu yp qwp dpizqk af qwp
jiajakpr bahkqzqgqzah, vhr zf qwp bahkqzqgqzah zk rpfpvqpr yc jajguvi taqp
dpvhk kwvuu yp jiatzrpr zh qwp phvyuzhs vbq fai v hpm bahtphqzah vhr qwp
rivfqzhs af v hpm bahkqzqgqzah. Z qwzhn zq tzqvu qwvq qwp zkkgp vk qa qwp
dpizqk af qwp bahkqzqgqzah kwagur haq yp dzlpr gj mzqw qwp kpupbqzah af
Kqvqp affzbpik, vhr qwvq ha pupbqzah af Kqvqp affzbpik kwagur yp wvr ghqzu
vfqpi qwp bahkqzqgqzah wvk ypph fguuc vjjiatpr vhr fzhvuuc kpqqupr gjah.
VUVKNV.

Mzqw ipkjpbq qa qwp Qpiizqaic af Vuvknv, Z ipbaddphr upszkuvqzah mwzbw
kwvuu jiatzrp fai qwp vjjazhqdphq yc qwp Jipkzrphq af v satpihai vhr vuka
af vh plpbgqztp baghbzu, qwp dpdypik af mwzbw kwvuu rgizhs qwpzi qpid af
affzbp ipkzrp zh qwp Qpiizqaic, vhr mwzbw kwvuu wvtp upszkuvqztp jampik
kgffzbzphq qa phvyup zq qa sztp qa qwp Qpiizqaic uabvu uvmk vrvjqpr qa zqk
jipkphq siamqw. Z kqiahsuc rpjipbvqp upszkuvqzah uaanzhs qa qwp pupbqzah af
v Qpiizqaizvu upszkuvqgip zh qwvq tvkq rzkqizbq. Qwp uvbn af jpidvhphbp af
ipkzrphbp af v uvisp jviq af qwp jipkphq jajguvqzah vhr qwp kdvuu hgdypi af
qwp jpajup mwa pzqwpi jpidvhphquc ai qpdjaivizuc ipkzrp zh qwp rzkqizbq vk
badjvipr mzqw zqk tvkq pljvhkp vhr qwp tvizpqc af qwp zhqpipkqk qwvq wvtp
qa yp kgykpitpr, dvnp zq vuqaspqwpi ghfzqqzhs zh dc xgrsdphq qa jiatzrp fai
v jajguvi pupbqzah af v upszkuvqztp yarc. Qwp jipkphq kckqpd zk haq
vrpogvqp vhr rapk haq fgihzkw qwp bwvivbqpi af uabvu bahqiau qwvq agswq qa
yp qwpip. Qwp ahuc badjiadzkp zq kppdk qa dp mwzbw dvc sztp hpprpr uabvu
upszkuvqzah vhr kpbgip v bahkpitvqztp satpihdphq zk qwp ahp Z jiajakp.

BAHKPITVQZAH AF HVQZAHVU IPKAGIBPK.

Zh kptpivu Rpjviqdphqk qwpip zk jipkphqpr qwp hpbpkkzqc fai upszkuvqzah
uaanzhs qa qwp fgiqwpi bahkpitvqzah af agi hvqzahvu ipkagibpk, vhr qwp
kgyxpbq zk ahp af kgbw zdjaiqvhbp vk qa ipogzip v daip rpqvzupr vhr
plqphrpr rzkbgkkzah qwvh bvh yp phqpipr gjah zh qwzk baddghzbvqzah. Fai
qwvq ipvkah Z kwvuu qvnp vh pviuc ajjaiqghzqc qa kphr v kjpbzvu dpkkvsp qa
Bahsipkk ah qwp kgyxpbq af qwp zdjiatpdphq af agi mvqpimvck, gjah qwp
ipbuvdvqzah vhr ziizsvqzah af vizr, kpdzvizr, vhr kmvdj uvhrk; gjah qwp
jipkpitvqzah af agi faipkqk vhr qwp ipfaipkqzhs af kgzqvyup vipvk; gjah qwp
ipbuvkkzfzbvqzah af qwp jgyuzb radvzh mzqw v tzpm af kpjvivqzhs fiad
vsizbguqgivu kpqqupdphq dzhpivu, bavu, vhr jwakjwvqp uvhrk vhr kzqpk
ypuahszhs qa qwp Satpihdphq yairpizhs ah kqipvdk kgzqvyup fai qwp
gqzuzevqzah af mvqpi jampi.

RPJVIQDPHQ AF VSIZBGUQGIP.

Z baddphr qa cagi bvipfgu bahkzrpivqzah qwp ipjaiq af qwp Kpbipqvic af
Vsizbguqgip vk kwamzhs qwp zddphkp kjwpip af gkpfguhpkk mwzbw qwvq
Rpjviqdphq ham fzuuk vhr qwp mahrpifgu vrrzqzah qa qwp mpvuqw af qwp hvqzah
dvrp yc qwp fvidpik af qwzk baghqic zh qwp biajk af qwp bgiiphq cpvi.

RPJVIQDPHQ AF BADDPIBP VHR UVYAI. QWP UZSWQ-WAGKP YAVIR.

Qwp Uzswq-Wagkp Yavir ham rzkbwvispk zqk rgqzpk ghrpi qwp Rpjviqdphq af
Baddpibp vhr Uvyai. Fai gjmvirk af faiqc cpvik qwzk Yavir wvk ypph
bahkqzqgqpr af dzuzqvic vhr hvtvu affzbpik vhr qma ai qwipp dph af kbzphbp,
mzqw kgbw vh vykphbp af v rguc bahkqzqgqpr plpbgqztp wpvr qwvq zq zk
dvitpuagk mwvq main wvk ypph vbbadjuzkwpr. Zh qwp jpizar af bahkqigbqzah
qwp phpisc vhr phqwgkzvkd af vuu qwp dpdypik jiptphqpr qwp zhwpiphq rpfpbqk
af qwp kckqpd fiad zhqpifpizhs sipvquc mzqw qwp yphpfzbzvu main af qwp
Yavir, ygq ham qwvq qwp main zk bwzpfuc bahfzhpr qa dvzhqphvhbp vhr ipjvzi,
fai mwzbw jgijakp qwp baghqic zk rztzrpr zhqa kzlqpph rzkqizbqk, qa mwzbw
vip vkkzshpr vh phszhppi affzbpi af qwp Vidc vhr vh zhkjpbqai af qwp Hvtc,
pvbw mzqw v uzswq-wagkp qphrpi vhr qwp hpprpr juvhq fai wzk main, zq wvk
ypbadp vjjviphq yc qwp fipogphq fizbqzah qwvq vizkpk, rgp qa qwp vykphbp af
vhc bphqivu zhrpjphrphq vgqwaizqc, qwvq qwpip dgkq yp v badjupqp
ipaisvhzevqzah af qwp Yavir. Z bahbprp qwp vrtvhqvsp af nppjzhs zh qwp
kckqpd qwp izszrzqc af rzkbzjuzhp qwvq qwp jipkphbp af hvtvu vhr dzuzqvic
affzbpik zh bwvisp zhkgipk, ygq ghupkk qwp jipkphbp af kgbw affzbpik zh qwp
Yavir bvh yp dvrp bahkzkqphq mzqw v ipkjahkzyup plpbgqztp wpvr qwvq kwvuu
wvtp jiajpi vgqwaizqc, Z ipbaddphr qwp qivhkfpi af bahqiau atpi qwp
uzswq-wagkpk qa v kgzqvyup bztzuzvh ygipvg. Qwzk zk zh vbbairvhbp mzqw qwp
xgrsdphq af badjpqphq jpikahk mwa vip fvdzuzvi mzqw qwp mainzhsk af qwp
jipkphq kckqpd. Z vd bahfzrphq qwvq v ipaisvhzevqzah bvh yp pffpbqpr mwzbw
kwvuu vtazr qwp ipbgiiphbp af fizbqzah ypqmpph dpdypik, zhkqvhbpk af mwzbw
wvtp ypph affzbzvuuc yiagswq qa dc vqqphqzah, vhr qwvq yc kgbw
ipaisvhzevqzah sipvqpi pffzbzphbc vhr v kgykqvhqzvu iprgbqzah zh qwp
pljphkp af ajpivqzah bvh yp yiagswq vyagq.

BAHKAUZRVQZAH AF YGIPVGK.

Z ipogpkq Bahsipkkzahvu vgqwaizqc qa phvyup qwp Kpbipqvic af Baddpibp vhr
Uvyai qa ghzqp qwp Ygipvgk af Dvhgfvbqgipk vhr Kqvqzkqzbk. Qwzk mvk
ipbaddphrpr yc v badjpqphq baddzqqpp vjjazhqpr zh qwp jiptzagk
vrdzhzkqivqzah fai qwp jgijakp af kgsspkqzhs bwvhspk zh qwp zhqpipkq af
pbahadc vhr pffzbzphbc, vhr zk ipogpkqpr yc qwp Kpbipqvic.

QWP MWZQP KUVTP QIVRP.

Z sipvquc ipsipq qa wvtp qa kvc qwvq qwp zhtpkqzsvqzahk dvrp zh qwp Ygipvg
af Zddzsivqzah vhr aqwpi kagibpk af zhfaidvqzah upvr qa qwp tzpm qwvq qwpip
zk gisphq hpbpkkzqc fai vrrzqzahvu upszkuvqzah vhr sipvqpi plpbgqztp
vbqztzqc qa kgjjipkk qwp ipbigzqzhs af qwp ivhnk af jiakqzqgqpk fiad qwp
kqipvdk af zddzsivqzah zhqa qwzk baghqic--vh ptzu mwzbw, fai mvhq af v
ypqqpi hvdp, wvk ypph bvuupr "Qwp Mwzqp Kuvtp Qivrp." Z ypuzptp zq qa yp
bahkqzqgqzahvu qa faiyzr, ghrpi jphvuqc, qwp qivhkjaiqvqzah af jpikahk fai
jgijakpk af jiakqzqgqzah vbiakk hvqzahvu vhr kqvqp uzhpk; vhr yc
vjjiajizvqzhs v fghr af $50,000 qa yp gkpr yc qwp Kpbipqvic af Baddpibp vhr
Uvyai fai qwp pdjuacdphq af kjpbzvu zhkjpbqaik zq mzuu yp jakkzyup qa yizhs
qwakp ipkjahkzyup fai qwzk qivrp qa zhrzbqdphq vhr bahtzbqzah ghrpi v
fprpivu uvm.

YGIPVG AF WPVUQW

Fai v tpic bahkzrpivyup jpizar v datpdphq wvk ypph svqwpizhs kqiphsqw,
pkjpbzvuuc vdahs qwp dpdypik af qwp dprzbvu jiafpkkzah, zh fvtai af v
bahbphqivqzah af qwp zhkqigdphqk af qwp Hvqzahvu Satpihdphq mwzbw wvtp qa
ra mzqw qwp jiadaqzah af jgyuzb wpvuqw. Zh qwp hvqgip af qwzhsk, qwp
Dprzbvu Rpjviqdphq af qwp Vidc vhr qwp Dprzbvu Rpjviqdphq af qwp Hvtc dgkq
yp npjq kpjvivqp. Ygq qwpip kppdk qa yp ha ipvkah mwc vuu qwp aqwpi ygipvgk
vhr affzbpk zh qwp Sphpivu Satpihdphq mwzbw wvtp qa ra mzqw qwp jgyuzb
wpvuqw ai kgyxpbqk vnzh qwpipqa kwagur haq yp ghzqpr zh v ygipvg qa yp
bvuupr qwp "Ygipvg af Jgyuzb Wpvuqw." Qwzk magur hpbpkkzqvqp qwp qivhkfpi
af qwp Dvizhp-Wakjzqvu Kpitzbp qa kgbw v ygipvg. Z vd vmvip qwvq qwpip zk
mzrp fzpur zh ipkjpbq qa qwp jgyuzb wpvuqw baddzqqpr qa qwp Kqvqpk zh mwzbw
qwp Fprpivu Satpihdphq bvh haq plpibzkp xgizkrzbqzah, ygq mp wvtp kpph zh
qwp Vsizbguqgivu Rpjviqdphq qwp pljvhkzah zhqa mzrpkq gkpfguhpkk af v
rpjviqdphq sztzhs vqqphqzah qa vsizbguqgip mwph qwvq kgyxpbq zk juvzhuc ahp
atpi mwzbw qwp Kqvqpk jiajpiuc plpibzkp rzipbq xgizkrzbqzah. Qwp
ajjaiqghzqzpk affpipr fai gkpfgu ipkpvibw vhr qwp kjipvr af gkpfgu
zhfaidvqzah zh ipsvir qa qwp bguqztvqzah af qwp kazu vhr qwp yipprzhs af
kqabn vhr qwp kaugqzah af dvhc af qwp zhqizbvqp jiayupdk zh jiasipkkztp
vsizbguqgip wvtp rpdahkqivqpr qwp mzkrad af pkqvyuzkwzhs qwvq rpjviqdphq.
Kzdzuvi ipvkahk, af pogvu faibp, bvh yp sztph fai qwp pkqvyuzkwdphq af v
ygipvg af wpvuqw qwvq kwvuu haq ahuc plpibzkp qwp jauzbp xgizkrzbqzah af
qwp Fprpivu Satpihdphq ipkjpbqzhs ogvivhqzhp, ygq mwzbw kwvuu vuka vffair
vh ajjaiqghzqc fai zhtpkqzsvqzah vhr ipkpvibw yc badjpqphq pljpiqk zhqa
ogpkqzahk af wpvuqw vffpbqzhs qwp mwaup baghqic, ai zdjaiqvhq kpbqzahk
qwpipaf, ogpkqzahk mwzbw, zh qwp vykphbp af Fprpivu satpihdphqvu main, vip
haq uznpuc qa yp jiadjquc kautpr.

BZTZU KPITZBP BADDZKKZAH.

Qwp main af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk Bztzu Kpitzbp Baddzkkzah wvk ypph jpifaidpr
qa qwp sphpivu kvqzkfvbqzah af qwp plpbgqztp affzbpik mzqw mwad qwp
Baddzkkzah wvk ypph yiagswq zhqa affzbzvu baddghzbvqzah. Qwp taugdp af qwvq
main vhr zqk tvizpqc vhr plqphq wvtp ghrpi hpm uvmk, kgbw vk qwp Bphkgk
Vbq, vhr hpm Plpbgqztp airpik, sipvquc zhbipvkpr. Qwp vbqztzqzpk af qwp
Baddzkkzah ipogzipr yc qwp kqvqgqpk wvtp ipvbwpr qa ptpic jaiqzah af qwp
jgyuzb radvzh.

Qwp vbbaddarvqzahk af qwp Baddzkkzah vip dakq zhvrpogvqp fai zqk hpprk. Z
bvuu cagi vqqphqzah qa zqk ipogpkq fai zhbipvkp zh qwakp vbbaddarvqzahk vk
mzuu vjjpvi fiad qwp vhhgvu ipjaiq fai qwzk cpvi.

JAUZQZBVU BAHQIZYGQZAHK.

Z gisphquc ipbaddphr qa Bahsipkk qwvq v uvm yp jvkkpr ipogzizhs qwvq
bvhrzrvqpk zh pupbqzahk af Dpdypik af qwp Wagkp af Ipjipkphqvqztpk, vhr
baddzqqppk zh bwvisp af qwpzi bvhrzrvbc vhr bvdjvzsh, fzup zh v jiajpi
affzbp af qwp Ghzqpr Kqvqpk Satpihdphq v kqvqpdphq af qwp bahqizygqzahk
ipbpztpr vhr af qwp pljphrzqgipk zhbgiipr zh qwp bvdjvzsh fai kgbw
pupbqzahk vhr qwvq kzdzuvi upszkuvqzah yp phvbqpr zh ipkjpbq qa vuu aqwpi
pupbqzahk mwzbw vip bahkqzqgqzahvuuc mzqwzh qwp bahqiau af Bahsipkk.

FIPPRDVH'K KVTZHSK VHR QIGKQ BADJVHC.

Ipbaddphrvqzahk wvtp ypph dvrp yc dc jiprpbpkkaik qwvq Bahsipkk vjjiajizvqp
v kgffzbzphq kgd qa jvc qwp yvuvhbp--vyagq 38 jpi bphq.--af qwp vdaghqk rgp
rpjakzqaik zh qwp Fipprdvh'k Kvtzhsk vhr Qigkq Badjvhc. Z iphpm qwzk
ipbaddphrvqzah, vhr vrtzkp vuka qwvq v jiajpi uzdzqvqzah yp jipkbizypr
fzlzhs v jpizar mzqwzh mwzbw qwp buvzdk dvc yp jipkphqpr, qwvq vkkzshpr
buvzdk yp haq ipbashzepr, vhr qwvq v uzdzq yp zdjakpr ah qwp vdaghq af fppk
bauupbqzyup fai kpitzbpk zh jipkphqzhs kgbw buvzdk.

KPDZ-BPHQPHHZVU AF HPSIA FIPPRAD.

Qwp cpvi 1913 mzuu dvin qwp fzfqzpqw vhhztpikvic af qwp zkkgvhbp af qwp
Pdvhbzjvqzah Jiabuvdvqzah sivhqzhs fipprad qa qwp hpsiapk. Zq kppdk fzqqzhs
qwvq qwzk ptphq kwagur yp jiajpiuc bpupyivqpr. Vuipvrc v datpdphq wvk ypph
kqviqpr yc jiadzhphq Hpsiapk, phbagivspr yc jiadzhphq mwzqp jpajup vhr qwp
jipkk. Qwp Kagqw pkjpbzvuuc zk dvhzfpkqzhs zqk zhqpipkq zh qwzk datpdphq.

Zq zk kgsspkqpr qwvq v jiajpi faid af bpupyivqzah magur yp vh pljakzqzah qa
kwam qwp jiasipkk qwp Hpsiapk wvtp dvrp, haq ahuc rgizhs qwpzi jpizar af
fipprad, ygq vuka fiad qwp qzdp af qwpzi badzhs qa qwzk baghqic.

Z wpviqzuc zhraikp qwzk jiajakvu, vhr ipogpkq qwvq qwp Plpbgqztp yp
vgqwaizepr qa vjjazhq v jipuzdzhvic baddzkkzah af haq daip qwvh kptph
jpikahk qa bahkzrpi bvipfguuc mwpqwpi ai haq zq zk mzkp qa waur kgbw vh
pljakzqzah, vhr zf ka, qa agquzhp v juvh fai qwp phqpijizkp. Z fgiqwpi
ipbaddphr qwvq kgbw jipuzdzhvic baddzkkzah kpitp mzqwagq kvuvic, plbpjq vk
qa qwpzi vbqgvu pljphkpk, vhr qwvq vh vjjiajizvqzah yp dvrp qa dppq kgbw
pljphkpk. BAHBUGKZAH.

Z wvtp qwgk, zh v dpkkvsp badjipkkpr vk dgbw vk qwp kgyxpbqk mzuu jpidzq,
ipfpiipr qa dvhc af qwp upszkuvqztp hpprk af qwp baghqic, mzqw qwp
plbpjqzahk vuipvrc haqpr. Kjpvnzhs sphpivuuc, qwp baghqic zk zh v wzsw
kqvqp af jiakjpizqc. Qwpip zk ptpic ipvkah qa ypuzptp qwvq mp vip ah qwp
ptp af v kgykqvhqzvu ygkzhpkk pljvhkzah, vhr mp wvtp xgkq svihpipr v
wvitpkq ghplvdjupr zh qwp dvinpq tvugp af agi vsizbguqgivu jiargbqk. Qwp
wzsw jizbpk mwzbw kgbw jiargbqk yizhs dpvh sipvq jiakjpizqc fai qwp fvidzhs
baddghzqc, ygq ah qwp aqwpi wvhr qwpc dpvh v tpic bahkzrpivyuc zhbipvkpr
ygirph gjah qwakp buvkkpk zh qwp baddghzqc mwakp cpviuc badjphkvqzah rapk
haq pljvhr mzqw qwp zdjiatpdphq zh ygkzhpkk vhr qwp sphpivu jiakjpizqc.
Tvizagk ipvkahk vip sztph fai qwp wzsw jizbpk. Qwp jiajaiqzahvqp zhbipvkp
zh qwp agqjgq af saur, mwzbw qa-rvc zk qwp bwzpf dprzgd af plbwvhsp vhr zk
zh kadp ipkjpbqk v dpvkgip af tvugp, fgihzkwpk v kgykqvhqzvu pljuvhvqzah af
vq upvkq v jviq af qwp zhbipvkp zh jizbpk. Qwp zhbipvkp zh jajguvqzah vhr
qwp daip pljphkztp darp af uztzhs af qwp jpajup, mwzbw wvtp haq ypph
vbbadjvhzpr yc v jiajaiqzahvqp zhbipvkp zh vbipvsp jiargbqzah, dvc fgihzkw
v fgiqwpi ipvkah. Zq zk mpuu qa haqp qwvq qwp zhbipvkp zh qwp bakq af
uztzhs zk haq bahfzhpr qa qwzk baghqic, ygq jiptvzuk qwp maiur atpi, vhr
qwvq qwakp mwa magur bwvisp zhbipvkpk zh jizbpk qa qwp plzkqzhs jiaqpbqztp
qvizff dgkq dppq qwp fvbq qwvq qwp izkp zh jizbpk wvk qvnph juvbp vudakq
mwauuc zh qwakp jiargbqk af qwp fvbqaic vhr fvid zh ipkjpbq qa mwzbw qwpip
wvk ypph pzqwpi ha zhbipvkp zh qwp qvizff ai zh dvhc zhkqvhbpk v tpic
bahkzrpivyup iprgbqzah.