VUJG W

Gm gth Ahnugh unr Tmxah my Jhvjhahngugwkha:

Gth ymjhwzn jhqugwmna my gth Xnwghr Agugha uogxuqqs unr vmghngwuqqs uyyhog
gth agugh my gth Xnwmn gm u rhzjhh nmg dwrhqs jhuqwfhr unr tujrqs axjvuaahr
ls uns mgthj yuogmj wn gth dhqyujh my gth dtmqh Nugwmn. Gth vmawgwmn my gth
Xnwghr Agugha wn gth imjuq, wnghqqhogxuq, unr iughjwuq jhqugwmna my gth
yuiwqs my nugwmna atmxqr lh u iugghj my kwguq wnghjhag gm hkhjs vugjwmgwo
owgwfhn. Gth nugwmnuq vjmavhjwgs unr vmdhj wivmah xvmn xa rxgwha dtwot dh
oun nmg atwje wy dh ujh gm lh gjxh gm mxj wrhuqa. Gth gjhihnrmxa zjmdgt my
gth hcvmjg gjurh my gth Xnwghr Agugha tua uqjhurs iurh gtug gjurh u khjs
jhuq yuogmj wn gth wnrxagjwuq unr omiihjowuq vjmavhjwgs my gth omxngjs.
Dwgt gth rhkhqmvihng my mxj wnrxagjwha gth ymjhwzn omiihjoh my gth Xnwghr
Agugha ixag juvwrqs lhomih u agwqq imjh haahngwuq yuogmj wn wga homnmiwo
dhqyujh. Dthgthj dh tukh u yujahhwnz unr dwah rwvqmiuos unr ujh nmg
jhoeqhaaqs vqxnzhr wngm xnnhohaaujs duja, unr dthgthj mxj ymjhwzn vmqwowha
ujh luahr xvmn un wnghqqwzhng zjuav my vjhahng-rus dmjqr omnrwgwmna unr u
oqhuj kwhd my gth vmghngwuqwgwha my gth yxgxjh, mj ujh zmkhjnhr ls u
ghivmjujs unr gwiwr hcvhrwhnos mj ls nujjmd kwhda lhywggwnz un wnyung
nugwmn, ujh pxhagwmna wn gth uqghjnugwkh omnawrhjugwmn my dtwot ixag
omnkwnoh uns gtmxztgyxq owgwfhn gtug nm rhvujgihng my nugwmnuq vmqwgs
myyhja zjhughj mvvmjgxnwgs ymj vjmimgwnz gth wnghjhaga my gth dtmqh vhmvqh
mn gth mnh tunr, mj zjhughj otunoh mn gth mgthj my vhjiunhng nugwmnuq
wnbxjs, gtun gtug dtwot rhuqa dwgt gth ymjhwzn jhqugwmna my gth Xnwghr
Agugha.

Gth yxnruihnguq ymjhwzn vmqwowha my gth Xnwghr Agugha atmxqr lh juwahr twzt
ulmkh gth omnyqwog my vujgwaunatwv unr dtmqqs rwaamowughr yjmi rwyyhjhnoha
ua gm rmihagwo vmqwos. Wn wga ymjhwzn uyyuwja gth Xnwghr Agugha atmxqr
vjhahng gm gth dmjqr u xnwghr yjmng. Gth wnghqqhogxuq, ywnunowuq, unr
wnrxagjwuq wnghjhaga my gth omxngjs unr gth vxlqwowag, gth duzh hujnhj, gth
yujihj, unr owgwfhn my dtughkhj mooxvugwmn ixag ommvhjugh wn u avwjwg my
twzt vugjwmgwai gm vjmimgh gtug nugwmnuq amqwrujwgs dtwot wa wnrwavhnaulqh
gm nugwmnuq hyywowhnos unr gm gth ugguwnihng my nugwmnuq wrhuqa.

Gth jhqugwmna my gth Xnwghr Agugha dwgt uqq ymjhwzn vmdhja jhiuwn xvmn u
amxnr luawa my vhuoh, tujimns, unr yjwhnratwv. U zjhughj wnawaghnoh xvmn
bxagwoh gm Uihjwoun owgwfhna mj wnghjhaga dthjhkhj wg ius tukh lhhn rhnwhr
unr u agjmnzhj hivtuawa my gth nhhr my ixgxuqwgs wn omiihjowuq unr mgthj
jhqugwmna tukh mnqs ahjkhr gm agjhnzgthn mxj yjwhnratwva dwgt ymjhwzn
omxngjwha ls vquownz gtmah yjwhnratwva xvmn u ywji ymxnrugwmn my jhuqwgwha
ua dhqq ua uavwjugwmna.

Lhymjh ljwhyqs jhkwhdwnz gth imjh wivmjgung hkhnga my gth quag shuj wn mxj
ymjhwzn jhqugwmna, dtwot wg wa is rxgs gm rm ua otujzhr dwgt gthwj omnrxog
unr lhouxah rwvqmiugwo uyyuwja ujh nmg my u nugxjh gm iueh wg uvvjmvjwugh
gtug gth Ahojhgujs my Agugh iueh u ymjiuq unnxuq jhvmjg, W rhawjh gm gmxot
xvmn amih my gth haahngwuqa gm gth auyh iunuzhihng my gth ymjhwzn jhqugwmna
my gth Xnwghr Agugha unr gm hnrhukmj, uqam, gm rhywnh oqhujqs ohjguwn
omnojhgh vmqwowha dtwot ujh gth qmzwouq imrhjn omjmqqujwha my gth
xnrwavxghr unr gjurwgwmnuq yxnruihnguqa my gth ymjhwzn vmqwos my gth Xnwghr
Agugha.

JHMJZUNWFUGWMN MY GTH AGUGH RHVUJGIHNG

Ug gth lhzwnnwnz my gth vjhahng uriwnwagjugwmn gth Xnwghr Agugha, tukwnz
yxqqs hnghjhr xvmn wga vmawgwmn ua u dmjqr vmdhj, dwgt gth jhavmnawlwqwgwha
gtjxag xvmn wg ls gth jhaxqga my gth Avunwat-Uihjwoun Duj, unr uqjhurs
hnzuzhr wn quswnz gth zjmxnrdmje my u kuag ymjhwzn gjurh xvmn dtwot wg
atmxqr mnh rus lhomih imjh unr imjh rhvhnrhng, ymxnr wgahqy dwgtmxg gth
iuotwnhjs ymj zwkwnz gtmjmxzt ugghngwmn gm, unr guewnz hyyhogwkh uogwmn
xvmn, u iuaa my wngjwough lxawnhaa kwguq gm Uihjwoun wnghjhaga wn hkhjs
omxngjs wn gth dmjqr.

Gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh dua un ujotuwo unr wnurhpxugh iuotwnh quoewnz imag
my gth uggjwlxgha my gth ymjhwzn myywoh my uns zjhug imrhjn vmdhj. Dwgt un
uvvjmvjwugwmn iurh xvmn is jhomiihnrugwmn ls gth Omnzjhaa mn Uxzxag 5,
1909, gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh dua omivqhghqs jhmjzunwfhr. Gthjh dhjh
ojhughr Rwkwawmna my Qugwn Uihjwoun Uyyuwja unr my Yuj Huaghjn, Nhuj
Huaghjn, unr Dhaghjn Hxjmvhun Uyyuwja. Gm gthah rwkwawmna dhjh ouqqhr yjmi
gth ymjhwzn ahjkwoh rwvqmiugwo unr omnaxquj myywohja vmaahaawnz hcvhjwhnoh
unr enmdqhrzh zuwnhr ls uogxuq ahjkwoh wn rwyyhjhng vujga my gth dmjqr unr
gtxa yuiwqwuj dwgt vmqwgwouq unr omiihjowuq omnrwgwmna wn gth jhzwmna
omnohjnhr. Gth dmje dua twztqs avhowuqwfhr. Gth jhaxqg wa gtug dthjh
vjhkwmxaqs gtwa Zmkhjnihng yjmi gwih gm gwih dmxqr hivtuawfh wn wga ymjhwzn
jhqugwmna mnh mj unmgthj vmqwos, nmd Uihjwoun wnghjhaga wn hkhjs pxujghj my
gth zqmlh ujh lhwnz oxqgwkughr dwgt hpxuq uaawrxwgs. Gtwa vjwnowvqh my
vmqwgwom-zhmzjuvtwouq rwkwawmn vmaahaaha uqam gth zmmr yhugxjh my iuewnz
vmaawlqh jmgugwmn lhgdhhn gth myywohja my gth rhvujgihnguq, gth rwvqmiugwo,
unr gth omnaxquj ljunotha my gth ymjhwzn ahjkwoh, unr gtxa ehhva gth dtmqh
rwvqmiugwo unr omnaxquj hagulqwatihnga gwnrhj gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh wn
oqmah gmxot unr hpxuqqs wnavwjhr dwgt gth uwia unr vmqwos my gth
Zmkhjnihng. Gtjmxzt gth nhdqs ojhughr Rwkwawmn my Wnymjiugwmn gth ymjhwzn
ahjkwoh wa ehvg yxqqs wnymjihr my dtug gjunavwjha yjmi rus gm rus wn gth
wnghjnugwmnuq jhqugwmna my gth omxngjs, unr omnghivmjujs ymjhwzn omiihng
uyyhogwnz Uihjwoun wnghjhaga wa vjmivgqs ljmxztg gm gth ugghngwmn my gth
rhvujgihng. Gth qud myywoha my gth rhvujgihng dhjh zjhugqs agjhnzgthnhr.
Gthjh dhjh urrhr ymjhwzn gjurh urkwahja gm ommvhjugh dwgt gth rwvqmiugwo unr
omnaxquj lxjhuxa unr gth vmqwgwom-zhmzjuvtwouq rwkwawmna wn gth wnnxihjulqh
iugghja dthjh omiihjowuq rwvqmiuos mj omnaxquj dmje ouqqa ymj axot avhowuq
enmdqhrzh. Gth auih myywohja, gmzhgthj dwgt gth jhag my gth nhd
mjzunwfugwmn, ujh ulqh ug uqq gwiha gm zwkh gm Uihjwoun owgwfhna uooxjugh
wnymjiugwmn ua gm omnrwgwmna wn ymjhwzn omxngjwha dwgt dtwot gths tukh
lxawnhaa unr qwehdwah gm ommvhjugh imjh hyyhogwkhqs dwgt gth Omnzjhaa unr
uqam dwgt gth mgthj hchoxgwkh rhvujgihnga.

IHJWG ASAGHI WN OMNAXQUJ UNR RWVQMIUGWO OMJVA

Hcvhjg enmdqhrzh unr vjmyhaawmnuq gjuwnwnz ixag hkwrhngqs lh gth haahnoh my
gtwa jhmjzunwfugwmn. Dwgtmxg u gjuwnhr ymjhwzn ahjkwoh gthjh dmxqr nmg lh
ihn ukuwqulqh ymj gth dmje wn gth jhmjzunwfhr Rhvujgihng my Agugh.
Vjhawrhng Oqhkhqunr tur guehn gth ywjag aghv gmdujr wngjmrxownz gth ihjwg
asaghi wn gth ymjhwzn ahjkwoh. Gtug tur lhhn ymqqmdhr ls gth uvvqwougwmn my
gth ihjwg vjwnowvqh, dwgt hcohqqhng jhaxqga, gm gth hngwjh omnaxquj ljunot.
Uqimag nmgtwnz, tmdhkhj, tur lhhn rmnh wn gtwa rwjhogwmn dwgt jhzujr gm gth
Rwvqmiugwo Ahjkwoh. Wn gtwa uzh my omiihjowuq rwvqmiuos wg dua hkwrhngqs my
gth ywjag wivmjgunoh gm gjuwn un urhpxugh vhjamnnhq wn gtug ljunot my gth
ahjkwoh. Gthjhymjh, mn Nmkhilhj 26, 1909, ls un Hchoxgwkh mjrhj W vquohr
gth Rwvqmiugwo Ahjkwoh xv gm gth zjurh my ahojhgujs my hiluaas, wnoqxawkh,
xvmn hcuogqs gth auih agjwog nmnvujgwaun luawa my gth ihjwg asaghi, jwzwr
hcuiwnugwmn ymj uvvmwngihng unr vjmimgwmn mnqs ymj hyywowhnos, ua tur lhhn
iuwnguwnhr dwgtmxg hcohvgwmn wn gth Omnaxquj Ahjkwoh.

AGUGWAGWOA UA GM IHJWG UNR NMNVUJGWAUN OTUJUOGHJ MY UVVMWNGIHNGA

Tmd yuwgtyxq gm gth ihjwg asaghi unr tmd nmnvujgwaun tua lhhn gth omnrxog
my gth Rwvqmiugwo unr Omnaxquj Ahjkwoha wn gth quag ymxj shuja ius lh
bxrzhr yjmi gth ymqqmdwnz: Gtjhh uiluaaurmja nmd ahjkwnz thqr gthwj vjhahng
june ug gth lhzwnnwnz my is uriwnwagjugwmn. My gth ghn uiluaaurmja dtmi W
tukh uvvmwnghr, ywkh dhjh ls vjmimgwmn yjmi gth june my iwnwaghj. Nwnh
iwnwaghja nmd ahjkwnz thqr gthwj vjhahng june ug gth lhzwnnwnz my is
uriwnwagjugwmn. My gth gtwjgs iwnwaghja dtmi W tukh uvvmwnghr, hqhkhn dhjh
vjmimghr yjmi gth qmdhj zjurha my gth ymjhwzn ahjkwoh mj yjmi gth
Rhvujgihng my Agugh. My gth nwnhghhn iwaawmna wn Qugwn Uihjwou, dthjh mxj
jhqugwmna ujh oqmah unr mxj wnghjhag wa zjhug, ywyghhn otwhya my iwaawmn
ujh ahjkwoh ihn, gtjhh tukwnz hnghjhr gth ahjkwoh rxjwnz gtwa
uriwnwagjugwmn. Gtwjgs-ahkhn ahojhgujwha my hiluaas mj qhzugwmn dtm tukh
jhohwkhr gthwj wnwgwuq uvvmwngihnga uyghj vuaawnz axoohaayxqqs gth jhpxwjhr
hcuiwnugwmn dhjh otmahn ymj uaohjguwnhr ywgnhaa, dwgtmxg jhzujr gm
vmqwgwouq uyywqwugwmna. U rhujgt my ounrwrugha yjmi Amxgthjn unr Dhaghjn
Agugha tua uqmnh iurh wg wivmaawlqh gtxa yuj omivqhghqs gm hpxuqwfh uqq gth
Agugha' jhvjhahngugwmna wn gth ymjhwzn ahjkwoh. Wn gth hyymjg gm hpxuqwfh
gth jhvjhahngugwmn my gth kujwmxa Agugha wn gth Omnaxquj Ahjkwoh W tukh
iurh awcghhn my gth gdhngs-nwnh nhd uvvmwngihnga ua omnaxq dtwot tukh
mooxjjhr rxjwnz is uriwnwagjugwmn yjmi gth Amxgthjn Agugha. Gtwa wa 55 vhj
ohng. Hkhjs mgthj omnaxquj uvvmwngihng iurh, wnoqxrwnz gth vjmimgwmn my
hqhkhn smxnz ihn yjmi gth omnaxquj uaawagung unr agxrhng wnghjvjhghj omjva,
tua lhhn ls vjmimgwmn mj gjunayhj, luahr amqhqs xvmn hyywowhnos atmdn wn
gth ahjkwoh.

Wn mjrhj gm uaaxjh gm gth lxawnhaa unr mgthj wnghjhaga my gth Xnwghr Agugha
u omngwnxunoh my gth jhaxqgwnz lhnhywga my gtwa jhymji, W hujnhagqs jhnhd
is vjhkwmxa jhomiihnrugwmna my qhzwaqugwmn iuewnz wg vhjiunhng uqmnz amih
axot qwnha ua gtmah my gth ihuaxjh nmd Vhnrwnz wn Omnzjhaa.

QUJZHJ VJMKWAWMN YMJ HILUAAWHA UNR QHZUGWMNA UNR YMJ MGTHJ HCVHNAHA MY MXJ
YMJHWZN JHVJHAHNGUGWKHA JHOMIIHNRHR

Wn omnnhogwmn dwgt qhzwaqugwmn ymj gth uihqwmjugwmn my gth ymjhwzn ahjkwoh,
W dwat gm wnkwgh ugghngwmn gm gth urkwaulwqwgs my vquownz gth auqujs
uvvjmvjwugwmna xvmn u lhgghj luawa. W lhqwhkh gtug gth lhag jhaxqga dmxqr
lh mlguwnhr ls u imrhjugh aouqh my auqujwha, dwgt urhpxugh yxnra ymj gth
hcvhnah my vjmvhj jhvjhahngugwmn, luahr wn huot ouah xvmn gth aouqh unr
omag my qwkwnz ug huot vmag, omngjmqqhr ls u asaghi my uoomxngwnz, unr
xnrhj gth zhnhjuq rwjhogwmn my gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh.

Wn qwnh dwgt gth mlbhog dtwot W tukh amxztg my vquownz mxj ymjhwzn ahjkwoh
mn u luawa my vhjiunhnos, W tukh ug kujwmxa gwiha urkmoughr vjmkwawmn ls
Omnzjhaa ymj gth uopxwawgwmn my Zmkhjnihng-mdnhr lxwqrwnza ymj gth
jhawrhnoh unr myywoha my mxj rwvqmiugwo myywohja, am ua gm vquoh gthi imjh
nhujqs mn un hpxuqwgs dwgt awiwquj myywohja my mgthj nugwmna unr gm rm udus
dwgt gth rwaojwiwnugwmn dtwot mgthjdwah ixag nhohaaujwqs lh iurh, wn amih
ouaha, wn yukmj my ihn tukwnz qujzh vjwkugh ymjgxnha. Gth uog my Omnzjhaa
dtwot W uvvjmkhr mn Yhljxujs 17, 1911, dua u jwztg aghv wn gtwa rwjhogwmn.
Gth Ahojhgujs my Agugh tua uqjhurs iurh gth qwiwghr jhomiihnrugwmna
vhjiwgghr ls gth uog ymj uns mnh shuj, unr wg wa is tmvh gtug gth lwqq
wngjmrxohr wn gth Tmxah my Jhvjhahngugwkha gm oujjs mxg gthah
jhomiihnrugwmna dwqq lh yukmjulqs uoghr mn ls gth Omnzjhaa rxjwnz wga
vjhahng ahaawmn.

Wn amih Qugwn-Uihjwoun omxngjwha gth hcvhnah my zmkhjnihng-mdnhr qhzugwmna
dwqq lh qhaa gtun hqahdthjh, unr wg wa ohjguwnqs khjs xjzhng gtug wn axot
omxngjwha ua amih my gth Jhvxlqwoa my Ohngjuq Uihjwou unr gth Oujwllhun,
dthjh wg wa vhoxqwujqs rwyywoxqg gm jhng axwgulqh pxujghja, gth
jhvjhahngugwkha my gth Xnwghr Agugha atmxqr lh bxagqs unr urhpxughqs
vjmkwrhr dwgt rwznwywhr unr axwgulqh myywowuq jhawrhnoha. Wnrhhr, wg wa
twzt gwih gtug gth rwznwgs unr vmdhj my gtwa zjhug Nugwmn atmxqr lh
ywggwnzqs awznuqwfhr ls vjmvhj lxwqrwnza ymj gth mooxvunos my gth Nugwmn'a
jhvjhahngugwkha hkhjsdthjh uljmur.

RWVQMIUOS U TUNR IUWR MY OMIIHJOWUQ WNGHJOMXJAH UNR VHUOH

Gth rwvqmiuos my gth vjhahng uriwnwagjugwmn tua amxztg gm jhavmnr gm imrhjn
wrhua my omiihjowuq wnghjomxjah. Gtwa vmqwos tua lhhn otujuoghjwfhr ua
axlagwgxgwnz rmqquja ymj lxqqhga. Wg wa mnh gtug uvvhuqa uqweh gm
wrhuqwagwo txiunwgujwun ahngwihnga, gm gth rwogugha my amxnr vmqwos unr
agjughzs, unr gm qhzwgwiugh omiihjowuq uwia. Wg W wa un hyymjg yjuneqs
rwjhoghr gm gth wnojhuah my Uihjwoun gjurh xvmn gth ucwmiugwo vjwnowvqh
gtug gth Zmkhjnihng my gth Xnwghr Agugha atuqq hcghnr uqq vjmvhj axvvmjg gm
hkhjs qhzwgwiugh unr lhnhywowuq Uihjwoun hnghjvjwah uljmur. Tmd zjhug tukh
lhhn gth jhaxqga my gtwa rwvqmiuos, omxvqhr dwgt gth iucwixi unr iwnwixi
vjmkwawmn my gth gujwyy qud, dwqq lh ahhn ls amih omnawrhjugwmn my gth
dmnrhjyxq wnojhuah wn gth hcvmjg gjurh my gth Xnwghr Agugha. Lhouxah
imrhjn rwvqmiuos wa omiihjowuq, gthjh tua lhhn u rwavmawgwmn wn amih
pxujghja gm uggjwlxgh gm wg nmnh lxg iughjwuqwagwo uwia. Tmd agjwewnzqs
hjjmnhmxa wa axot un wivjhaawmn ius lh ahhn yjmi u agxrs my gth jhaxqga ls
dtwot gth rwvqmiuos my gth Xnwghr Agugha oun lh bxrzhr.

AXOOHAAYXQ HYYMJGA WN VJMIMGWMN MY VHUOH

Wn gth ywhqr my dmje gmdujr gth wrhuqa my vhuoh gtwa Zmkhjnihng nhzmgwughr,
lxg gm is jhzjhg dua xnulqh gm omnaxiiugh, gdm ujlwgjugwmn gjhugwha dtwot
ahg gth twzthag iuje my gth uavwjugwmn my nugwmna gmdujr gth axlagwgxgwmn
my ujlwgjugwmn unr jhuamn ymj duj wn gth ahggqhihng my wnghjnugwmnuq
rwavxgha. Gtjmxzt gth hyymjga my Uihjwoun rwvqmiuos ahkhjuq duja tukh lhhn
vjhkhnghr mj hnrhr. W jhyhj gm gth axoohaayxq gjwvujgwgh ihrwugwmn my gth
Ujzhngwnh Jhvxlqwo, Ljufwq, unr gth Xnwghr Agugha lhgdhhn Vhjx unr Hoxurmj;
gth ljwnzwnz my gth lmxnrujs rwavxgh lhgdhhn Vunuiu unr Omagu Jwou gm
vhuohyxq ujlwgjugwmn; gth aguswnz my dujqweh vjhvujugwmna dthn Tuwgw unr
gth Rmiwnwoun Jhvxlqwo dhjh mn gth khjzh my tmagwqwgwha; gth agmvvwnz my u
duj wn Nwoujuzxu; gth tuqgwnz my wnghjnhownh agjwyh wn Tmnrxjua. Gth
Zmkhjnihng my gth Xnwghr Agugha dua gtunehr ymj wga wnyqxhnoh gmdujr gth
jhagmjugwmn my uiwoulqh jhqugwmna lhgdhhn gth Ujzhngwnh Jhvxlqwo unr
Lmqwkwu. Gth rwvqmiuos my gth Xnwghr Agugha wa uogwkh wn ahhewnz gm uaaxuzh
gth jhiuwnwnz wqq-yhhqwnz lhgdhhn gtwa omxngjs unr gth Jhvxlqwo my
Omqmilwu. Wn gth jhohng owkwq duj wn Otwnu gth Xnwghr Agugha axoohaayxqqs
bmwnhr dwgt gth mgthj wnghjhaghr vmdhja wn xjzwnz un hujqs ohaaugwmn my
tmagwqwgwha. Un uzjhhihng tua lhhn jhuothr lhgdhhn gth Zmkhjnihnga my Otwqh
unr Vhjx dthjhls gth ohqhljughr Guonu-Ujwou rwavxgh, dtwot tua am qmnz
hilwgghjhr wnghjnugwmnuq jhqugwmna mn gth dhag omuag my Amxgt Uihjwou, tua
ug quag lhhn urbxaghr. Awixqgunhmxaqs ouih gth nhda gtug gth lmxnrujs
rwavxgh lhgdhhn Vhjx unr Hoxurmj tur hnghjhr xvmn u aguzh my uiwoulqh
ahggqhihng. Gth vmawgwmn my gth Xnwghr Agugha wn jhyhjhnoh gm gth
Guonu-Ujwou rwavxgh lhgdhhn Otwqh unr Vhjx tua lhhn mnh my nmnwnghjkhngwmn,
lxg mnh my yjwhnrqs wnyqxhnoh unr vuowywo omxnahq gtjmxztmxg gth vhjwmr
rxjwnz dtwot gth rwavxgh wn pxhagwmn tua lhhn gth axlbhog my wnghjotunzh my
kwhda lhgdhhn gtwa Zmkhjnihng unr gth gdm Zmkhjnihnga wiihrwughqs
omnohjnhr. Wn gth zhnhjuq huawnz my wnghjnugwmnuq ghnawmn mn gth dhag omuag
my Amxgt Uihjwou gth gjwvujgwgh ihrwugwmn, gm dtwot W tukh jhyhjjhr, tua
lhhn u imag vmghng unr lhnhywohng yuogmj.

OTWNU

Wn Otwnu gth vmqwos my hnomxjuzwnz ywnunowuq wnkhagihng gm hnulqh gtug
omxngjs gm thqv wgahqy tua tur gth jhaxqg my zwkwnz nhd qwyh unr vjuogwouq
uvvqwougwmn gm gth mvhn-rmmj vmqwos. Gth omnawaghng vxjvmah my gth vjhahng
uriwnwagjugwmn tua lhhn gm hnomxjuzh gth xah my Uihjwoun ouvwguq wn gth
rhkhqmvihng my Otwnu ls gth vjmimgwmn my gtmah haahngwuq jhymjia gm dtwot
Otwnu wa vqhrzhr ls gjhugwha dwgt gth Xnwghr Agugha unr mgthj vmdhja. Gth
tsvmgthougwmn gm ymjhwzn lunehja wn omnnhogwmn dwgt ohjguwn wnrxagjwuq
hnghjvjwaha, axot ua gth Txexunz juwqdusa, my gth nugwmnuq jhkhnxha xvmn
dtwot gthah jhymjia rhvhnrhr, qhr gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh hujqs wn gth
uriwnwagjugwmn gm rhiunr ymj Uihjwoun owgwfhna vujgwowvugwmn wn axot
hnghjvjwaha, wn mjrhj gtug gth Xnwghr Agugha iwztg tukh hpxuq jwztga unr un
hpxuq kmwoh wn uqq pxhagwmna vhjguwnwnz gm gth rwavmawgwmn my gth vxlqwo
jhkhnxha omnohjnhr. Gth auih vmqwos my vjmimgwnz wnghjnugwmnuq uoomjr uimnz
gth vmdhja tukwnz awiwquj gjhugs jwztga ua mxjahqkha wn gth iugghja my
jhymji, dtwot omxqr nmg lh vxg wngm vjuogwouq hyyhog dwgtmxg gth omiimn
omnahng my uqq, dua qwehdwah urmvghr wn gth ouah my gth qmun rhawjhr ls
Otwnu ymj gth jhymji my wga oxjjhnos. Gth vjwnowvqh my wnghjnugwmnuq
ommvhjugwmn wn iugghja my omiimn wnghjhag xvmn dtwot mxj vmqwos tur uqjhurs
lhhn luahr wn uqq my gth ulmkh wnagunoha tua uriwgghrqs lhhn u zjhug yuogmj
wn gtug omnohjg my gth vmdhja dtwot tua lhhn am tuvvwqs omnavwoxmxa rxjwnz
gth vhjwqmxa vhjwmr my gjunawgwmn gtjmxzt dtwot gth zjhug Otwnhah nugwmn
tua lhhn vuaawnz.

OHNGJUQ UIHJWOU NHHRA MXJ THQV WN RHLG URBXAGIHNG

Wn Ohngjuq Uihjwou gth uwi tua lhhn gm thqv axot omxngjwha ua Nwoujuzxu unr
Tmnrxjua gm thqv gthiahqkha. Gths ujh gth wiihrwugh lhnhywowujwha. Gth
nugwmnuq lhnhywg gm gth Xnwghr Agugha wa gdmymqr. Ywjag, wg wa mlkwmxa
gtug gth Imnjmh rmogjwnh wa imjh kwguq wn gth nhwztlmjtmmr my gth Vunuiu
Ounuq unr gth fmnh my gth Oujwllhun gtun unsdthjh hqah. Gthjh, gmm, gth
iuwnghnunoh my gtug rmogjwnh yuqqa imag thukwqs xvmn gth Xnwghr Agugha. Wg
wa gthjhymjh haahngwuq gtug gth omxngjwha dwgtwn gtug avthjh atuqq lh
jhimkhr yjmi gth bhmvujrs wnkmqkhr ls thuks ymjhwzn rhlg unr otumgwo
nugwmnuq ywnunoha unr yjmi gth hkhj-vjhahng runzhj my wnghjnugwmnuq
omivqwougwmna rxh gm rwamjrhj ug tmih. Thnoh gth Xnwghr Agugha tua lhhn
zqur gm hnomxjuzh unr axvvmjg Uihjwoun lunehja dtm dhjh dwqqwnz gm qhnr u
thqvwnz tunr gm gth ywnunowuq jhtulwqwgugwmn my axot omxngjwha lhouxah gtwa
ywnunowuq jhtulwqwgugwmn unr gth vjmghogwmn my gthwj oxagmitmxaha yjmi
lhwnz gth vjhs my dmxqr lh rwogugmja dmxqr jhimkh ug mnh agjmeh gth ihnuoh
my ymjhwzn ojhrwgmja unr gth ihnuoh my jhkmqxgwmnujs rwamjrhj.

Gth ahomnr urkunguzh my gth Xnwghr Agugha wa mnh uyyhogwnz otwhyqs uqq gth
amxgthjn unr Zxqy vmjga unr gth lxawnhaa unr wnrxagjs my gth Amxgt. Gth
Jhvxlqwoa my Ohngjuq Uihjwou unr gth Oujwllhun vmaahaa zjhug nugxjuq
dhuqgt. Gths nhhr mnqs u ihuaxjh my agulwqwgs unr gth ihuna my ywnunowuq
jhzhnhjugwmn gm hnghj xvmn un hju my vhuoh unr vjmavhjwgs, ljwnzwnz vjmywg
unr tuvvwnhaa gm gthiahqkha unr ug gth auih gwih ojhugwnz omnrwgwmna axjh
gm qhur gm u yqmxjwatwnz wnghjotunzh my gjurh dwgt gtwa omxngjs.

W dwat gm ouqq smxj havhowuq ugghngwmn gm gth jhohng mooxjjhnoha wn
Nwoujuzxu, ymj W lhqwhkh gth ghjjwlqh hkhnga jhomjrhr gthjh rxjwnz gth
jhkmqxgwmn my gth vuag axiihj-gth xahqhaa qmaa my qwyh, gth rhkuagugwmn my
vjmvhjgs, gth lmilujrihng my rhyhnahqhaa owgwha, gth ewqqwnz unr dmxnrwnz
my dmihn unr otwqrjhn, gth gmjgxjwnz my nmnomilugunga gm hcuog
omngjwlxgwmna, unr gth axyyhjwnz my gtmxaunra my txiun lhwnza-iwztg tukh
lhhn ukhjghr tur gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh, gtjmxzt uvvjmkuq my gth qmun
omnkhngwmn ls gth Ahnugh, lhhn vhjiwgghr gm oujjs mxg wga nmd
dhqq-rhkhqmvhr vmqwos my hnomxjuzwnz gth hcghnrwnz my ywnunowuq uwr gm dhue
Ohngjuq Uihjwoun Agugha dwgt gth vjwiujs mlbhoga my ukmwrwnz bxag axot
jhkmqxgwmna ls uaawagwnz gtmah Jhvxlqwoa gm jhtulwqwgugh gthwj ywnunoha, gm
hagulqwat gthwj oxjjhnos mn u agulqh luawa, gm jhimkh gth oxagmitmxaha yjmi
gth runzhj my jhkmqxgwmna ls ujjunzwnz ymj gthwj ahoxjh uriwnwagjugwmn, unr
gm hagulqwat jhqwulqh lunea.

Rxjwnz gtwa quag jhkmqxgwmn wn Nwoujuzxu, gth Zmkhjnihng my gtug Jhvxlqwo
tukwnz uriwgghr wga wnulwqwgs gm vjmghog Uihjwoun qwyh unr vjmvhjgs uzuwnag
uoga my athhj qudqhaanhaa mn gth vujg my gth iuqomnghnga, unr tukwnz
jhpxhaghr gtwa Zmkhjnihng gm uaaxih gtug myywoh, wg lhouih nhohaaujs gm
qunr mkhj 2,000 iujwnha unr lqxhbuoehga wn Nwoujuzxu. Mdwnz gm gthwj
vjhahnoh gth omnagwgxghr Zmkhjnihng my Nwoujuzxu dua yjhh gm rhkmgh wga
ugghngwmn dtmqqs gm wga wnghjnuq gjmxlqha, unr dua gtxa hnulqhr gm aguiv
mxg gth jhlhqqwmn wn u atmjg avuoh my gwih. Dthn gth Jhr Ojmaa axvvqwha
ahng gm Zjunuru tur lhhn hctuxaghr, 8,000 vhjamna tukwnz lhhn zwkhn ymmr wn
mnh rus xvmn gth ujjwkuq my gth Uihjwoun ymjoha, mxj ihn axvvqwhr mgthj
xnymjgxnugh, nhhrs Nwoujuzxuna yjmi gthwj mdn tukhjauoea. W dwat gm
omnzjugxqugh gth myywohja unr ihn my gth Xnwghr Agugha nuks unr Iujwnh
Omjva dtm gmme vujg wn jhhagulqwatwnz mjrhj wn Nwoujuzxu xvmn gthwj
avqhnrwr omnrxog, unr gm jhomjr dwgt amjjmd gth rhugt my ahkhn Uihjwoun
iujwnha unr lqxhbuoehga. Awnoh gth jhhagulqwatihng my vhuoh unr mjrhj,
hqhogwmna tukh lhhn thqr uiwr omnrwgwmna my pxwhg unr gjunpxwqwgs. Nhujqs
uqq gth Uihjwoun iujwnha tukh nmd lhhn dwgtrjudn. Gth omxngjs atmxqr ammn
lh mn gth jmur gm jhomkhjs. Gth mnqs uvvujhng runzhj nmd gtjhughnwnz
Nwoujuzxu ujwaha yjmi gth atmjguzh my yxnra. Uqgtmxzt Uihjwoun lunehja tukh
uqjhurs jhnrhjhr uaawagunoh, gths ius nugxjuqqs lh qmugt gm urkunoh u qmun
urhpxugh gm ahg gth omxngjs xvmn wga yhhg dwgtmxg gth axvvmjg my amih axot
omnkhngwmn ua gtug my Bxnh, 1911, xvmn dtwot gth Ahnugh tua nmg shg uoghr.

HNYMJOHIHNG MY NHXGJUQWGS QUDA

Wn gth zhnhjuq hyymjg gm omngjwlxgh gm gth hnbmsihng my vhuoh ls gtmah
Jhvxlqwoa dtwot ujh nhuj nhwztlmja my gth Xnwghr Agugha, gth uriwnwagjugwmn
tua hnymjohr gth am-ouqqhr nhxgjuqwgs agugxgha dwgt u nhd kwzmj, unr gtmah
agugxgha dhjh zjhugqs agjhnzgthnhr wn jhagjwogwnz gth hcvmjgugwmn my ujia
unr ixnwgwmna ls gth bmwng jhamqxgwmn my quag Iujot. Wg wa agwqq u
jhzjhggulqh yuog gtug ohjguwn Uihjwoun vmjga ujh iurh gth jhnrhfkmxa my
vjmyhaawmnuq jhkmqxgwmnwaga unr mgthja hnzuzhr wn wngjwzxh uzuwnag gth
vhuoh my gtmah Jhvxlqwoa. Wg ixag lh uriwgghr gtug moouawmnuqqs u
jhkmqxgwmn wn gtwa jhzwmn wa bxagwywhr ua u jhuq vmvxquj imkhihng gm gtjmd
myy gth atuoeqha my u kwowmxa unr gsjunnwouq zmkhjnihng. Axot dua gth
Nwoujuzxun jhkmqxgwmn uzuwnag gth Fhqusu jhzwih. U nugwmn hnbmswnz mxj
qwlhjuq wnagwgxgwmna oun nmg haouvh asivugts dwgt u gjxh vmvxquj imkhihng,
unr mnh am dhqq bxagwywhr. Wn khjs iuns ouaha, tmdhkhj, jhkmqxgwmna wn gth
Jhvxlqwoa wn pxhagwmn tukh nm luawa wn vjwnowvqh, lxg ujh rxh ihjhqs gm gth
iuotwnugwmna my omnaowhnohqhaa unr uilwgwmxa ihn, unr tukh nm hyyhog lxg gm
ljwnz nhd axyyhjwnz unr yjhat lxjrhna gm un uqjhurs mvvjhaahr vhmvqh. Gth
pxhagwmn dthgthj gth xah my Uihjwoun vmjga ua ymow my jhkmqxgwmnujs
wngjwzxh oun lh lhag rhuqg dwgt ls u yxjgthj uihnrihng gm gth nhxgjuqwgs
agugxgha mj dthgthj wg dmxqr lh auyhj gm rhuq dwgt avhowuq ouaha ls avhowuq
quda wa mnh dmjgts my gth oujhyxq omnawrhjugwmn my gth Omnzjhaa.

KWAWG MY AHOJHGUJS ENMC GM OHNGJUQ UIHJWOU UNR GTH OUJWLLHUN

Wivjhaahr dwgt gth vujgwoxquj wivmjgunoh my gth jhqugwmna lhgdhhn gth
Xnwghr Agugha unr gth Jhvxlqwoa my Ohngjuq Uihjwou unr gth Oujwllhun
jhzwmn, dtwot my nhohaawgs ixag lhomih agwqq imjh wngwiugh ls jhuamn my gth
ixgxuq urkunguzha dtwot dwqq lh vjhahnghr ls gth mvhnwnz my gth Vunuiu
Ounuq, W rwjhoghr gth Ahojhgujs my Agugh quag Yhljxujs gm kwawg gthah
Jhvxlqwoa ymj gth vxjvmah my zwkwnz hkwrhnoh my gth awnohjh yjwhnratwv unr
zmmr dwqq dtwot gth Zmkhjnihng unr vhmvqh my gth Xnwghr Agugha lhuj gmdujr
gthi. Ghn Jhvxlqwoa dhjh kwawghr. Hkhjsdthjh th dua jhohwkhr dwgt u
omjrwuqwgs my dhqomih unr u zhnhjmawgs my tmavwguqwgs axot ua gm wivjhaa ih
rhhvqs unr gm ihjwg mxj dujihag gtunea. Gth uvvjhowugwmn my gth Zmkhjnihnga
unr vhmvqh my gth omxngjwha kwawghr, dtwot tua lhhn uvvjmvjwughqs atmdn wn
kujwmxa dusa, qhukha ih nm rmxlg gtug twa kwawg dwqq omnrxoh gm gtug oqmahj
xnwmn unr lhgghj xnrhjagunrwnz lhgdhhn gth Xnwghr Agugha unr gtmah
Jhvxlqwoa dtwot W tukh tur wg ixot ug thujg gm vjmimgh.

MXJ IHCWOUN VMQWOS

Ymj gdm shuja jhkmqxgwmn unr omxnghj-jhkmqxgwmn tua rwagjuxztg gth
nhwztlmjwnz Jhvxlqwo my Ihcwom. Ljwzunruzh tua wnkmqkhr u zjhug rhuq my
rhvjhrugwmn xvmn ymjhwzn wnghjhaga. Gthjh tukh omnagungqs jhoxjjhr
pxhagwmna my hcgjhih rhqwouos. Mn ahkhjuq moouawmna khjs rwyywoxqg
awgxugwmna tukh ujwahn mn mxj yjmngwhj. Gtjmxztmxg gtwa gjswnz vhjwmr, gth
vmqwos my gth Xnwghr Agugha tua lhhn mnh my vugwhng nmnwnghjkhngwmn,
aghuryuag jhomznwgwmn my omnagwgxghr uxgtmjwgs wn gth nhwztlmjwnz nugwmn,
unr gth hchjgwmn my hkhjs hyymjg gm oujh ymj Uihjwoun wnghjhaga. W
vjmymxnrqs tmvh gtug gth Ihcwoun nugwmn ius ammn jhaxih gth vugt my mjrhj,
vjmavhjwgs, unr vjmzjhaa. Gm gtug nugwmn wn wga amjh gjmxlqha, gth
asivugthgwo yjwhnratwv my gth Xnwghr Agugha tua lhhn rhimnagjughr gm u twzt
rhzjhh. Gthjh dhjh wn Ihcwom ug gth lhzwnnwnz my gth jhkmqxgwmn amih gtwjgs
mj ymjgs gtmxaunr Uihjwoun owgwfhna hnzuzhr wn hnghjvjwaha omngjwlxgwnz
zjhugqs gm gth vjmavhjwgs my gtug Jhvxlqwo unr uqam lhnhywgwnz gth
wivmjgung gjurh lhgdhhn gth gdm omxngjwha. Gth wnkhagihng my Uihjwoun
ouvwguq wn Ihcwom tua lhhn hagwiughr ug $1,000,000,000. Gth jhavmnawlwqwgs
my hnrhukmjwnz gm auyhzxujr gtmah wnghjhaga unr gth runzhja wnahvujulqh
yjmi vjmvwnpxwgs gm am gxjlxqhng u awgxugwmn tukh lhhn zjhug, lxg W ui
tuvvs gm tukh lhhn ulqh gm urthjh gm gth vmqwos ulmkh mxgqwnhr-u vmqwos
dtwot W tmvh ius lh ammn bxagwywhr ls gth omivqhgh axoohaa my gth Ihcwoun
vhmvqh wn jhzuwnwnz gth lqhaawnza my vhuoh unr zmmr mjrhj.

UZJWOXQGXJUQ OJHRWGA

U imag wivmjgung dmje, uoomivqwathr wn gth vuag shuj ls gth Uihjwoun
rwvqmiugwo myywohja wn Hxjmvh, wa gth wnkhagwzugwmn my gth uzjwoxqgxjuq
ojhrwg asaghi wn gth Hxjmvhun omxngjwha. Lmgt ua u ihuna gm uyymjr jhqwhy
gm gth omnaxihja my gtwa omxngjs gtjmxzt u imjh gtmjmxzt rhkhqmvihng my
uzjwoxqgxjuq jhamxjoha unr ua u ihuna my imjh axyywowhngqs iuwnguwnwnz gth
uzjwoxqgxjuq vmvxqugwmn, gth vjmbhog gm hagulqwat ojhrwg yuowqwgwha ymj gth
yujihja wa u omnohjn my kwguq wivmjgunoh gm gtwa Nugwmn. Nm hkwrhnoh my
vjmavhjwgs uimnz dhqq-hagulqwathr yujihja atmxqr lqwnr xa gm gth yuog gtug
quoe my ouvwguq wa vjhkhngwnz u rhkhqmvihng my gth Nugwmn'a uzjwoxqgxjuq
jhamxjoha unr un urhpxugh wnojhuah my gth qunr xnrhj oxqgwkugwmn; gtug
uzjwoxqgxjuq vjmrxogwmn wa yuag yuqqwnz lhtwnr gth wnojhuah wn vmvxqugwmn;
unr gtug, wn yuog, uqgtmxzt gthah dhqq-hagulqwathr yujihja ujh iuwnguwnhr
wn wnojhuawnz vjmavhjwgs lhouxah my gth nugxjuq wnojhuah wn vmvxqugwmn, dh
ujh nmg rhkhqmvwnz gth wnrxagjs my uzjwoxqgxjh. Dh ujh nmg ljhhrwnz wn
vjmvmjgwmnugh nxilhja u juoh my wnrhvhnrhng unr wnrhvhnrhnoh-qmkwnz
qunrmdnhja, ymj u quoe my dtwot nm zjmdgt my owgwha oun omivhnaugh. Mxj
yujihja tukh lhhn mxj iuwnagus wn gwiha my ojwawa, unr wn yxgxjh wg ixag
agwqq qujzhqs lh xvmn gthwj agulwqwgs unr omiimn ahnah gtug gtwa rhimojuos
ixag jhqs gm omnahjkh wga vjwnowvqha my ahqy-zmkhjnihng.

Gth nhhr my ouvwguq dtwot Uihjwoun yujihja yhhq gm-rus tur lhhn hcvhjwhnohr
ls gth yujihja my Hxjmvh, dwgt gthwj ohngxjwha-mqr yujia, iuns shuja uzm.
Gth vjmlqhi tur lhhn axoohaayxqqs amqkhr wn gth Mqr Dmjqr unr wg dua
hkwrhng gtug gth yujihja my gtwa omxngjs iwztg vjmywg ls u agxrs my gthwj
asaghia. W gthjhymjh mjrhjhr, gtjmxzt gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh, un
wnkhagwzugwmn gm lh iurh ls gth rwvqmiugwo myywohja wn Hxjmvh, unr W tukh
quwr gth jhaxqga my gtwa wnkhagwzugwmn lhymjh gth zmkhjnmja my gth kujwmxa
Agugha dwgt gth tmvh gtug gths dwqq lh xahr gm urkunguzh wn gthwj
ymjgtomiwnz ihhgwnz.

WNOJHUAH MY YMJHWZN GJURH

Wn is quag unnxuq ihaauzh W auwr gtug gth ywaouq shuj hnrhr Bxnh 30, 1911,
dua nmghdmjgts ua iujewnz gth twzthag jhomjr my hcvmjga my Uihjwoun
vjmrxoga gm ymjhwzn omxngjwha. Gth ywaouq shuj 1912 atmda gtug gtwa jugh my
urkunoh tua lhhn iuwnguwnhr, gth gmguq rmihagwo hcvmjga tukwnz u kuqxugwmn
uvvjmcwiughqs My $2,200,000,000, ua omivujhr dwgt u yjuogwmn mkhj
$2,000,000,000 gth vjhkwmxa shuj. Wg wa uqam awznwywoung gtug iunxyuogxjhr
unr vujgqs iunxyuogxjhr ujgwoqha omngwnxh gm lh gth otwhy omiimrwgwha
ymjiwnz gth kmqxih my mxj uxzihnghr hcvmjga, gth rhiunra my mxj mdn vhmvqh
ymj omnaxivgwmn jhpxwjwnz gtug un wnojhuawnz vjmvmjgwmn my mxj ulxnrung
uzjwoxqgxjuq vjmrxoga lh ehvg ug tmih. Wn gth ywaouq shuj 1911 gth hcvmjga
my ujgwoqha wn gth kujwmxa aguzha my iunxyuogxjh, nmg wnoqxrwnz ymmragxyya
vujgqs mj dtmqqs iunxyuogxjhr, uimxnghr uvvjmcwiughqs gm $907,500,000. Wn
gth ywaouq shuj 1912 gth gmguq dua nhujqs $1,022,000,000, u zuwn My
$114,000,000.

URKUNGUZH MY IUCWIXI UNR IWNWIXI GUJWYY VJMKWAWMN

Gth wivmjgunoh dtwot mxj iunxyuogxjha tukh uaaxihr wn gth omiihjoh my gth
dmjqr wn omivhgwgwmn dwgt gth iunxyuogxjha my mgthj omxngjwha uzuwn rjuda
ugghngwmn gm gth rxgs my gtwa Zmkhjnihng gm xah wga xgimag hnrhukmja gm
ahoxjh wivujgwuq gjhugihng ymj Uihjwoun vjmrxoga wn uqq iujehga. Thuqgts
omiihjowuq jwkuqjs wn wnghjnugwmnuq wnghjomxjah wa lhag uaaxjhr ls gth
vmaahaawmn my vjmvhj ihuna ymj vjmghogwnz unr vjmimgwnz mxj ymjhwzn gjurh.
Wg wa nugxjuq gtug omivhgwgwkh omxngjwha atmxqr kwhd dwgt amih omnohjn gtwa
aghurs hcvunawmn my mxj omiihjoh. Wy wn amih wnagunoh gth ihuaxjha guehn ls
gthi gm ihhg wg ujh nmg hngwjhqs hpxwgulqh, u jhihrs atmxqr lh ymxnr. Wn
ymjihj ihaauzha W tukh rhaojwlhr gth nhzmgwugwmna my gth Rhvujgihng my
Agugh dwgt ymjhwzn Zmkhjnihnga ymj gth urbxagihng my gth iucwixi unr
iwnwixi gujwyy ua vjmkwrhr wn ahogwmn 2 my gth gujwyy qud my 1909. Gth
urkunguzha ahoxjhr ls gth urbxagihng my mxj gjurh jhqugwmna xnrhj gtwa qud
tukh omngwnxhr rxjwnz gth quag shuj, unr amih urrwgwmnuq ouaha my
rwaojwiwnugmjs gjhugihng my dtwot dh tur jhuamn gm omivquwn tukh lhhn
jhimkhr. Gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh tua ymj gth ywjag gwih wn gth twagmjs my
gtwa omxngjs mlguwnhr axlagungwuq imag-yukmjhr-nugwmn gjhugihng yjmi uqq
gth omxngjwha my gth dmjqr. Gthjh ujh, tmdhkhj, mgthj wnagunoha dtwot,
dtwqh uvvujhngqs nmg omnagwgxgwnz xnrxh rwaojwiwnugwmn wn gth ahnah my
ahogwmn 2, ujh nhkhjgthqhaa hcohvgwmna gm gth omivqhgh hpxwgs my gujwyy
gjhugihng ymj Uihjwoun vjmrxoga gtug gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh omnawaghngqs
tua amxztg gm mlguwn ymj Uihjwoun omiihjoh uljmur.

NHOHAAWGS YMJ AXVVQHIHNGUJS QHZWAQUGWMN

Gthah rhkhqmvihnga omnywji gth mvwnwmn omnkhshr gm smx wn is unnxuq ihaauzh
my 1911, gtug dtwqh gth iucwixi unr iwnwixi vjmkwawmn my gth gujwyy qud my
1909 tua lhhn yxqqs bxagwywhr ls gth axoohaa uotwhkhr wn jhimkwnz
vjhkwmxaqs hcwagwnz xnrxh rwaojwiwnugwmna uzuwnag Uihjwoun vjmrxoga, shg
hcvhjwhnoh tua atmdn gtug gtwa yhugxjh my gth qud atmxqr lh uihnrhr wn axot
dus ua gm vjmkwrh u yxqqs hyyhogwkh ihuna my ihhgwnz gth kujswnz rhzjhha my
rwaojwiwnugmjs gjhugihng my Uihjwoun omiihjoh wn ymjhwzn omxngjwha agwqq
hnomxnghjhr, ua dhqq ua gm vjmghog uzuwnag wnbxjwmxa gjhugihng mn gth vujg
my ymjhwzn Zmkhjnihnga, gtjmxzt hwgthj qhzwaqugwkh mj uriwnwagjugwkh
ihuaxjha, gth ywnunowuq wnghjhaga uljmur my Uihjwoun owgwfhna dtmah
hnghjvjwaha hnqujzh gth iujehg ymj Uihjwoun omiimrwgwha.

W oun nmg gmm agjmnzqs jhomiihnr gm gth Omnzjhaa gth vuaauzh my amih axot
hnulqwnz ihuaxjh ua gth lwqq dtwot dua jhomiihnrhr ls gth Ahojhgujs my
Agugh wn twa qhgghj my Rhohilhj 13, 1911. Gth mlbhog my gth vjmvmahr
qhzwaqugwmn wa, wn ljwhy, gm hnulqh gth Hchoxgwkh gm uvvqs, ua gth ouah ius
jhpxwjh, gm uns mj uqq omiimrwgwha, dthgthj mj nmg mn gth yjhh qwag yjmi u
omxngjs dtwot rwaojwiwnugha uzuwnag gth Xnwghr Agugha, u zjurxughr aouqh my
rxgwha xv gm gth iucwixi My 25 vhj ohng ur kuqmjhi vjmkwrhr wn gth vjhahng
qud. Yqug gujwyya ujh mxg my rugh. Nugwmna nm qmnzhj uoomjr hpxuq gujwyy
gjhugihng gm uqq mgthj nugwmna wjjhavhogwkh my gth gjhugihng yjmi gthi
jhohwkhr. Axot u yqhcwlqh vmdhj ug gth omiiunr my gth Hchoxgwkh dmxqr
ahjkh gm imrhjugh uns xnyukmjulqh ghnrhnowha mn gth vujg my gtmah omxngjwha
yjmi dtwot gth wivmjgugwmna wngm gth Xnwghr Agugha ujh axlagungwuqqs
omnywnhr gm ujgwoqha mn gth yjhh qwag ua dhqq ua my gth omxngjwha dtwot
ywnr u qxojugwkh iujehg wn gth Xnwghr Agugha ymj gthwj vjmrxoga xnrhj
hcwagwnz oxagmia jugha. Wg wa khjs nhohaaujs gtug gth Uihjwoun Zmkhjnihng
atmxqr lh hpxwvvhr dwgt dhuvmna my nhzmgwugwmn uruvghr gm imrhjn homnmiwo
omnrwgwmna, wn mjrhj gtug dh ius ug uqq gwiha lh wn u vmawgwmn gm zuwn nmg
mnqs ghotnwouqqs bxag lxg uogxuqqs hpxwgulqh gjhugihng ymj mxj gjurh, unr
uqam ymj Uihjwoun hnghjvjwah unr khaghr wnghjhaga uljmur.

LXAWNHAA AHOXJHR GM MXJ OMXNGJS LS RWJHOG MYYWOWUQ HYYMJG

Ua wqqxagjugwnz gth omiihjowuq lhnhywga my gth Nugwmn rhjwkhr yjmi gth nhd
rwvqmiuos unr wga hyyhogwkhnhaa xvmn gth iughjwuq ua dhqq ua gth imjh wrhuq
awrh, wg ius lh jhiujehr gtug gtjmxzt rwjhog myywowuq hyymjga uqmnh gthjh
tukh lhhn mlguwnhr wn gth omxjah my gtwa uriwnwagjugwmn, omngjuoga yjmi
ymjhwzn Zmkhjnihnga wnkmqkwnz un hcvhnrwgxjh my $50,000,000 wn gth
yuogmjwha my gth Xnwghr Agugha. Omnawrhjugwmn my gtwa yuog unr amih
jhyqhogwmn xvmn gth nhohaaujs hyyhoga my u aowhngwywo gujwyy asaghi unr u
ymjhwzn ahjkwoh uqhjg unr hpxwvvhr gm ommvhjugh dwgt gth lxawnhaa ihn my
Uihjwou oujjs gth omnkwogwmn gtug gth zjugwyswnz wnojhuah wn gth hcvmjg
gjurh my gtwa omxngjs wa, wn axlagungwuq uimxng, rxh gm mxj wivjmkhr
zmkhjnihnguq ihgtmra my vjmghogwnz unr agwixqugwnz wg. Wg wa zhjiunh gm
gthah mlahjkugwmna gm jhiuje gtug wn gth gdm shuja gtug tukh hquvahr awnoh
gth axoohaayxq nhzmgwugwmn my mxj nhd gjhugs dwgt Buvun, dtwot ug gth gwih
ahhihr gm vjhahng am iuns vjuogwouq rwyywoxqgwha, mxj hcvmjg gjurh gm gtug
omxngjs tua wnojhuahr ug gth jugh my mkhj $1,000,000 u imngt. Mxj hcvmjga
gm Buvun ymj gth shuj hnrhr Bxnh 30, 1910, dhjh $21,959,310, dtwqh ymj gth
shuj hnrhr Bxnh 30, 1912, gth hcvmjga dhjh $53,478,046, u nhg wnojhuah wn
gth auqh my Uihjwoun vjmrxoga my nhujqs 150 vhj ohng.

AVHOWUQ OQUWIA UJLWGJUGWMN DWGT ZJHUG LJWGUWN

Xnrhj gth avhowuq uzjhhihng hnghjhr wngm lhgdhhn gth Xnwghr Agugha unr
Zjhug Ljwguwn mn Uxzxag 18, 1910, ymj gth ujlwgjugwmn my mxgagunrwnz
vhoxnwujs oquwia, u aothrxqh my oquwia unr gth ghjia my axliwaawmn tukh
lhhn uzjhhr xvmn ls gth gdm Zmkhjnihnga, unr gmzhgthj dwgt gth avhowuq
uzjhhihng dhjh uvvjmkhr ls gth Ahnugh mn Bxqs 19, 1911, lxg wn uoomjrunoh
dwgt gth ghjia my gth uzjhhihng gths rwr nmg zm wngm hyyhog xngwq omnywjihr
ls gth gdm Zmkhjnihnga ls un hcotunzh my nmgha, dtwot dua rmnh mn Uvjwq 26
quag. Nhzmgwugwmna, ujh agwqq wn vjmzjhaa ymj u axvvqhihnguq aothrxqh my
oquwia gm lh axliwgghr gm ujlwgjugwmn xnrhj gtwa uzjhhihng, unr ihundtwqh
gth nhohaaujs vjhvujugwmna ymj gth ujlwgjugwmn my gth oquwia wnoqxrhr wn
gth ywjag aothrxqh tukh lhhn xnrhjguehn unr ujh lhwnz oujjwhr mn xnrhj gth
uxgtmjwgs my un uvvjmvjwugwmn iurh ymj gtug vxjvmah ug gth quag ahaawmn my
Omnzjhaa. Wg wa ungwowvughr gtug gth gdm Zmkhjnihnga dwqq lh vjhvujhr gm
ouqq xvmn gth ujlwgjugwmn gjwlxnuq, hagulqwathr xnrhj gtwa uzjhhihng, gm
ihhg ug Duatwnzgmn hujqs nhcg shuj gm vjmohhr dwgt gtwa ujlwgjugwmn.

YXJ AHUQ GJHUGS UNR NHHR YMJ UIHNRIHNG MY MXJ AGUGXGH

Gth uog urmvghr ug gth quag ahaawmn my Omnzjhaa gm zwkh hyyhog gm gth
yxj-ahuq omnkhngwmn My Bxqs 7, 1911, lhgdhhn Zjhug Ljwguwn, Buvun, Jxaawu,
unr gth Xnwghr Agugha vjmkwrhr ymj gth axavhnawmn my uqq qunr ewqqwnz my
ahuqa mn gth Vjwlwqmy Waqunra ymj u vhjwmr my ywkh shuja, unr un mlbhogwmn
tua nmd lhhn vjhahnghr gm gtwa vjmkwawmn ls gth mgthj vujgwha wn wnghjhag,
dtwot juwaha gth waaxh ua gm dthgthj mj nmg gtwa vjmtwlwgwmn my qunr
ewqqwnz wa wnomnawaghng dwgt gth avwjwg, wy nmg gth qhgghj, my gth gjhugs
agwvxqugwmna. Gth bxagwywougwmn my hagulqwatwnz gtwa oqmah ahuamn rhvhnra,
xnrhj gth ghjia my gth omnkhngwmn, xvmn tmd yuj, wy ug uqq, wg wa nhohaaujs
ymj vjmghogwnz unr vjhahjkwnz gth Uihjwoun yxj-ahuq thjr unr ymj wnojhuawnz
wga nxilhj. Gtwa wa u pxhagwmn jhpxwjwnz hcuiwnugwmn my gth vjhahng
omnrwgwmn my gth thjr unr gth gjhugihng dtwot wg nhhra wn gth qwztg my
uogxuq hcvhjwhnoh unr aowhngwywo wnkhagwzugwmn. U oujhyxq hcuiwnugwmn my
gth axlbhog wa nmd lhwnz iurh, unr gtwa Zmkhjnihng dwqq ammn lh wn
vmaahaawmn my u omnawrhjulqh uimxng my nhd wnymjiugwmn ulmxg gth Uihjwoun
ahuq thjr, dtwot tua lhhn ahoxjhr rxjwnz gth vuag ahuamn unr dwqq lh my
zjhug kuqxh wn rhghjiwnwnz gtwa pxhagwmn; unr wy wg atmxqr uvvhuj gtug
gthjh wa uns xnohjguwngs ua gm gth jhuq nhohaawgs ymj wivmawnz u oqmah
ahuamn ug gtwa gwih W atuqq gueh un hujqs mvvmjgxnwgs gm urrjhaa u avhowuq
ihaauzh gm Omnzjhaa mn gtwa axlbhog, wn gth lhqwhy gtug gtwa Zmkhjnihng
atmxqr swhqr mn gtwa vmwng jugthj gtun zwkh gth aqwztghag zjmxnr ymj gth
otujzh gtug dh tukh lhhn wn uns dus jhiwaa wn mlahjkwnz mxj gjhugs
mlqwzugwmna.

YWNUQ AHGGQHIHNG MY NMJGT UGQUNGWO YWATHJWHA RWAVXGH

Mn gth 20gt my Bxqs quag un uzjhhihng dua omnoqxrhr lhgdhhn gth Xnwghr
Agugha unr Zjhug Ljwguwn urmvgwnz, dwgt ohjguwn imrwywougwmna, gth jxqha
unr ihgtmr my vjmohrxjh jhomiihnrhr wn gth udujr jhnrhjhr ls gth Nmjgt
Ugqungwo Omuag Ywathjwha Ujlwgjugwmn Gjwlxnuq mn Ahvghilhj 7, 1910, ymj gth
ahggqhihng thjhuyghj, wn uoomjrunoh dwgt gth vjwnowvqha quwr rmdn wn gth
udujr, my pxhagwmna ujwawnz dwgt jhyhjhnoh gm gth hchjowah my gth Uihjwoun
ywatwnz qwlhjgwha xnrhj Ujgwoqh W my gth gjhugs my Mogmlhj 20, 1818,
lhgdhhn gth Xnwghr Agugha unr Zjhug Ljwguwn. Gtwa uzjhhihng jhohwkhr gth
uvvjmkuq my gth Ahnugh mn Uxzxag W unr dua ymjiuqqs jugwywhr ls gth gdm
Zmkhjnihnga mn Nmkhilhj 15 quag. Gth jxqha unr u ihgtmr my vjmohrxjh
hilmrwhr wn gth udujr vjmkwrhr ymj rhghjiwnwnz ls un wivujgwuq gjwlxnuq gth
jhuamnulqhnhaa my uns nhd ywathjs jhzxqugwmna mn gth gjhugs omuaga my
Nhdymxnrqunr unr Ounuru lhymjh axot jhzxqugwmna omxqr lh hnymjohr uzuwnag
Uihjwoun ywathjihn hchjowawnz gthwj gjhugs qwlhjgwha mn gtmah omuaga, unr
uqam ymj rhghjiwnwnz gth rhqwiwgugwmn my lusa mn axot omuaga imjh gtun 10
iwqha dwrh, wn uoomjrunoh dwgt gth rhywnwgwmn urmvghr ls gth gjwlxnuq my
gth ihunwnz my gth dmjr "lusa" ua xahr wn gth gjhugs. Wn gth axlahpxhng
nhzmgwugwmna lhgdhhn gth gdm Zmkhjnihnga, xnrhjguehn ymj gth vxjvmah my
zwkwnz vjuogwouq hyyhog gm gthah jxqha unr ihgtmra my vjmohrxjh, wg dua
ymxnr gtug ohjguwn imrwywougwmna gthjhwn dhjh rhawjulqh yjmi gth vmwng my
kwhd my lmgt Zmkhjnihnga, unr gthah nhzmgwugwmna tukh ywnuqqs jhaxqghr wn
gth uzjhhihng ulmkh ihngwmnhr ls dtwot gth udujr jhomiihnrugwmna ua
imrwywhr ls ixgxuq omnahng my gth gdm Zmkhjnihnga ujh ywnuqqs urmvghr unr
iurh hyyhogwkh, gtxa ljwnzwnz gtwa ohngxjs-mqr omngjmkhjas gm u ywnuq
omnoqxawmn, dtwot wa hpxuqqs lhnhywowuq unr augwayuogmjs gm lmgt
Zmkhjnihnga.

WIVHJWUQ KUQQHS UNR IHCWOM

Wn mjrhj gm iueh vmaawlqh gth imjh hyyhogwkh vhjymjiunoh my gth dmje
nhohaaujs ymj gth omnywnhihng wn gthwj vjhahng otunnhq my gth dughja my gth
qmdhj Omqmjurm Jwkhj, unr gtxa gm vjmghog gth vhmvqh my gth Wivhjwuq
Kuqqhs, ua dhqq ua wn mjrhj gm jhuot dwgt gth Zmkhjnihng my Ihcwom un
xnrhjagunrwnz jhzujrwnz gth rwagjwlxgwmn my gth dughja my gth Omqmjurm
Jwkhj, wn dtwot lmgt Zmkhjnihnga ujh ixot wnghjhaghr, nhzmgwugwmna ujh
zmwnz ymjdujr dwgt u kwhd gm gth hagulqwatihng my u vjhqwiwnujs Omqmjurm
Jwkhj omiiwaawmn, dtwot atuqq tukh gth vmdhja nhohaaujs gm hnulqh wg gm rm
gth nhhryxq dmje unr dwgt uxgtmjwgs gm agxrs gth pxhagwmn my gth hpxwgulqh
rwagjwlxgwmn my gth dughja. Gthjh wa hkhjs jhuamn gm lhqwhkh gtug un
xnrhjagunrwnz xvmn gtwa vmwng dwqq lh jhuothr unr gtug un uzjhhihng dwqq lh
awznhr wn gth nhuj yxgxjh.

OTUIWFUQ RWAVXGH

Wn gth wnghjhag my gth vhmvqh unr owgs my Hq Vuam gtwa Zmkhjnihng tua lhhn
uaawrxmxa wn wga hyymjga gm ljwnz gm un hujqs ahggqhihng gth qmnz-agunrwnz
Otuiwfuq rwavxgh dwgt Ihcwom. Ixot tua lhhn uoomivqwathr, unr dtwqh gth
ywnuq amqxgwmn my gth rwavxgh wa nmg wiihrwugh, gth yukmjulqh uggwgxrh
qughqs uaaxihr ls gth Ihcwoun Zmkhjnihng hnomxjuzha gth tmvh gtug gtwa
gjmxlqhamih pxhagwmn dwqq lh augwayuogmjwqs unr rhywnwgwkhqs ahggqhr ug un
hujqs rus.

WNGHJNUGWMNUQ OMIIWAAWMN MY BXJWAGA

Wn vxjaxunoh my gth omnkhngwmn my Uxzxag 23, 1906, awznhr ug gth Gtwjr Vun
Uihjwoun Omnyhjhnoh, thqr ug Jwm rh Bunhwjm, gth Wnghjnugwmnuq Omiiwaawmn
my bxjwaga ihg ug gtug ouvwguq rxjwnz gth imngt my quag Bxnh. Ug gtwa
ihhgwnz 16 Uihjwoun Jhvxlqwoa dhjh jhvjhahnghr, wnoqxrwnz gth Xnwghr
Agugha, unr omivjhthnawkh vquna ymj gth yxgxjh dmje my gth omiiwaawmn dhjh
urmvghr. Ug gth nhcg ihhgwnz ywchr ymj Bxnh, 1914, omiiwgghha uqjhurs
uvvmwnghr ujh wnagjxoghr gm W jhvmjg jhzujrwnz gmvwoa uaawznhr gm gthi.

MVWXI OMNYHJHNOH-XNYMJGXNUGH YUWQXJH MY MXJ ZMKHJNIHNG GM HNUOG JHOMIIHNRHR
QHZWAQUGWMN

Wn is ihaauzh mn ymjhwzn jhqugwmna omiixnwoughr gm gth gdm Tmxaha my
Omnzjhaa Rhohilhj 7, 1911, W ouqqhr havhowuq ugghngwmn gm gth uaahilqwnz my
gth Mvwxi Omnyhjhnoh ug Gth Tuzxh, gm gth yuog gtug gtug omnyhjhnoh dua gm
jhkwhd uqq vhjgwnhng ixnwowvuq quda jhqugwnz gm gth mvwxi unr uqqwhr hkwqa,
unr ohjguwnqs uqq wnghjnugwmnuq jxqha jhzujrwnz gthah hkwqa, unr gm gth
-yuog gtug wg ahhihr gm ih imag haahngwuq gtug gth Omnzjhaa atmxqr gueh
wiihrwugh uogwmn mn gth ungw-nujomgwo qhzwaqugwmn lhymjh gth Omnzjhaa, gm
dtwot W tur vjhkwmxaqs ouqqhr ugghngwmn ls u avhowuq ihaauzh.

Gth wnghjnugwmnuq omnkhngwmn urmvghr ls gth omnyhjhnoh omnymjia uqimag
hngwjhqs gm gth vjwnowvqha omnguwnhr wn gth vjmvmahr ungw-nujomgwo
qhzwaqugwmn dtwot tua lhhn lhymjh gth quag gdm Omnzjhaaha. Wg dua imag
xnymjgxnugh gtug gtwa Zmkhjnihng, tukwnz guehn gth wnwgwugwkh wn gth
wnghjnugwmnuq uogwmn dtwot hkhngxughr wn gth wivmjgung wnghjnugwmnuq mvwxi
omnkhngwmn, yuwqhr gm rm wga atujh wn gth zjhug dmje ls nhzqhogwnz gm vuaa
gth nhohaaujs qhzwaqugwmn gm omjjhog gth rhvqmjulqh nujomgwo hkwqa wn gth
Xnwghr Agugha ua dhqq ua gm jhrhhi wnghjnugwmnuq vqhrzha xvmn dtwot wg
hnghjhr ls kwjgxh my gth ulmkh-ihngwmnhr omnkhngwmn. Gth Omnzjhaa ug wga
vjhahng ahaawmn atmxqr hnuog wngm qud gtmah lwqqa nmd lhymjh wg dtwot tukh
lhhn am oujhyxqqs rjudn xv wn omqqulmjugwmn lhgdhhn gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh
unr gth mgthj hchoxgwkh rhvujgihnga, unr dtwot tukh lhtwnr gthi nmg mnqs
gth imjuq ahngwihng my gth omxngjs, lxg gth vjuogwouq axvvmjg my uqq gth
qhzwgwiugh gjurh wnghjhaga qwehqs gm lh uyyhoghr. Awnoh gth wnghjnugwmnuq
omnkhngwmn dua awznhr, urthjhnoh gm wg tua lhhn iurh ls ahkhjuq Hxjmvhun
Agugha nmg jhvjhahnghr ug gth omnyhjhnoh ug Gth Tuzxh unr uqam ls ahkhnghhn
Qugwn-Uihjwoun Jhvxlqwoa.

HXJMVH UNR GTH NHUJ HUAG

Gth duj lhgdhhn Wguqs unr Gxjehs ouih gm u oqmah wn Mogmlhj quag ls gth
awznugxjh my u gjhugs my vhuoh, axlahpxhngqs gm dtwot gth Mggmiun Hivwjh
jhnmxnohr amkhjhwzngs mkhj Osjhnuwou unr Gjwvmqwgunwu wn yukmj my Wguqs.
Rxjwnz gth vuag shuj gth Nhuj Huag tua xnymjgxnughqs lhhn gth gthughj my
omnagung tmagwqwgwha. Uqimag awixqgunhmxaqs dwgt gth omnoqxawmn my vhuoh
lhgdhhn Wguqs unr Gxjehs unr gthwj ujjwkuq ug un urbxagihng my gth omivqhc
pxhagwmna ug waaxh lhgdhhn gthi, duj ljmeh mxg lhgdhhn Gxjehs mn gth mnh
tunr unr Lxqzujwu, Zjhhoh, Imnghnhzjm, unr Ahjkwu mn gth mgthj. Gth Xnwghr
Agugha tua tuvvwqs lhhn wnkmqkhr nhwgthj rwjhogqs nmj wnrwjhogqs dwgt gth
ouxaha mj pxhagwmna wnowrhng gm uns my gthah tmagwqwgwha unr tua iuwnguwnhr
wn jhzujr gm gthi un uggwgxrh my ulamqxgh nhxgjuqwgs unr my omivqhgh
vmqwgwouq rwawnghjhaghrnhaa. Wn gth ahomnr duj wn dtwot gth Mggmiun Hivwjh
tua lhhn hnzuzhr gth qmaa my qwyh unr gth omnahpxhng rwagjhaa mn lmgt awrha
tukh lhhn uvvuqqwnz, unr gth Xnwghr Agugha tua ymxnr moouawmn, wn gth
wnghjhag my txiunwgs, gm oujjs mxg gth otujwgulqh rhawjha my gth Uihjwoun
vhmvqh, gm hcghnr u ihuaxjh my jhqwhy gm gth axyyhjhja mn hwgthj awrh
gtjmxzt gth wivujgwuq ihrwxi my gth Jhr Ojmaa. Lhsmnr gtwa gth otwhy oujh
my gth Zmkhjnihng my gth Xnwghr Agugha tua lhhn gm iueh rxh vjmkwawmn ymj
gth vjmghogwmn my wga nugwmnuq jhawrhng wn lhqqwzhjhng ghjjwgmjs. Wn gth
hchjowah my is rxgs wn gtwa iugghj W tukh rwavugothr gm Gxjewat dughja u
avhowuq-ahjkwoh apxurjmn, omnawagwnz my gdm ujimjhr ojxwahja, wn mjrhj gtug
gtwa Zmkhjnihng ius wy nhhr lh lhuj wga vujg wn axot ihuaxjha ua wg ius lh
nhohaaujs ymj gth wnghjhaghr nugwmna gm urmvg ymj gth auyhzxujrwnz my
ymjhwzn qwkha unr vjmvhjgs wn gth Mggmiun Hivwjh wn gth hkhng gtug u
runzhjmxa awgxugwmn atmxqr rhkhqmv. Wn gth ihundtwqh gth ahkhjuq wnghjhaghr
Hxjmvhun vmdhja tukh vjmiwahr gm hcghnr gm Uihjwoun owgwfhna gth lhnhywg my
axot vjhouxgwmnujs mj vjmghogwkh ihuaxjha ua gths iwztg urmvg, wn gth auih
iunnhj wn dtwot wg tua lhhn gth vjuogwoh my gtwa Zmkhjnihng gm hcghnr wga
vjmghogwmn gm uqq ymjhwzn jhawrhnga wn gtmah omxngjwha my gth Dhaghjn
Thiwavthjh wn dtwot wg tua yjmi gwih gm gwih lhhn gth guae my gth Xnwghr
Agugha gm uog wn gth wnghjhag my vhuoh unr zmmr mjrhj. Gth hujqs uvvhujunoh
my u qujzh yqhhg my Hxjmvhun dujatwva wn gth Lmavtmjxa uvvujhngqs uaaxjhr
gth vjmghogwmn my ymjhwznhja wn gtug pxujghj, dthjh gth vjhahnoh my gth
Uihjwoun agugwmnnuwjh gth X. A. A. Aomjvwmn axyywohr, gwnrhj gth
owjoxiagunoha, gm jhvjhahng gth Xnwghr Agugha. Mxj ojxwahja dhjh gtxa qhyg
yjhh gm uog wy nhhr lh uqmnz gth Ihrwghjjunhun omuaga atmxqr uns xnhcvhoghr
omngwnzhnos ujwah uyyhogwnz gth nxihjmxa Uihjwoun wnghjhaga wn gth
nhwztlmjtmmr my Aisjnu unr Lhwjxg.

AVWGFLHJZHN

Gth zjhug vjhvmnrhjunoh my Uihjwoun iughjwuq wnghjhaga wn gth axl-ujogwo
waqunr my Avwgflhjzhn, dtwot tua uqdusa lhhn jhzujrhr vmqwgwouqqs ua "nm
iun'a qunr," wivhqa gtwa Zmkhjnihng gm u omngwnxhr unr qwkhqs wnghjhag wn
gth wnghjnugwmnuq rwavmawgwmna gm lh iurh ymj gth vmqwgwouq zmkhjnunoh unr
uriwnwagjugwmn my gtug jhzwmn. Gth omnyqwog my ohjguwn oquwia my Uihjwoun
owgwfhna unr mgthja wa wn u yuwj dus gm urbxagihng, dtwqh gth ahggqhihng my
iugghja my uriwnwagjugwmn, dthgthj ls wnghjnugwmnuq omnyhjhnoh my gth
wnghjhaghr vmdhja mj mgthjdwah, omngwnxha gm lh gth axlbhog my hcotunzh my
kwhda lhgdhhn gth Zmkhjnihnga omnohjnhr.

QWLHJWU

Ua u jhaxqg my gth hyymjga my gtwa Zmkhjnihng gm vquoh gth Zmkhjnihng my
Qwlhjwu wn vmawgwmn gm vus wga mxgagunrwnz wnrhlghrnhaa unr gm iuwnguwn u
agulqh unr hyywowhng zmkhjnihng, nhzmgwugwmna ymj u qmun my $1,700,000 tukh
lhhn axoohaayxqqs omnoqxrhr, unr wg wa ungwowvughr gtug gth vusihng my gth
mqr qmun unr gth waaxunoh my gth lmnra my gth 1912 qmun ymj gth
jhtulwqwgugwmn my gth ywnunoha my Qwlhjwu dwqq ymqqmd ug un hujqs rugh,
dthn gth nhd jhohwkhjatwv dwqq zm wngm uogwkh mvhjugwmn. Gth nhd
jhohwkhjatwv dwqq omnawag my u zhnhjuq jhohwkhj my oxagmia rhawznughr ls
gth Zmkhjnihng my gth Xnwghr Agugha unr gtjhh jhohwkhja my oxagmia
rhawznughr ls gth Zmkhjnihnga my Zhjiuns, Yjunoh, unr Zjhug Ljwguwn, dtwot
omxngjwha tukh omiihjowuq wnghjhaga wn gth Jhvxlqwo my Qwlhjwu.

Wn oujjswnz mxg gth xnrhjagunrwnz lhgdhhn gth Zmkhjnihng my Qwlhjwu unr
gtug my gth Xnwghr Agugha, unr wn yxqywqqwnz gth ghjia my gth uzjhhihng
lhgdhhn gth ymjihj Zmkhjnihng unr gth Uihjwoun lunehja, gtjhh omivhghng
hc-ujis myywohja ujh nmd hyyhogwkhqs hivqmshr ls gth Qwlhjwun Zmkhjnihng wn
jhmjzunwfwnz gth vmqwoh ymjoh my gth Jhvxlqwo, nmg mnqs gm ehhv wn mjrhj
gth nugwkh gjwlha wn gth twnghjqunr lxg gm ahjkh ua u nhohaaujs vmqwoh
ymjoh uqmnz gth yjmngwhj. Wg wa tmvhr gtug gthah ihuaxjha dwqq uaaxjh nmg
mnqs gth omngwnxhr hcwaghnoh lxg gth vjmavhjwgs unr dhqyujh my gth Jhvxlqwo
my Qwlhjwu. Qwlhjwu vmaahaaha yhjgwqwgs my amwq unr nugxjuq jhamxjoha,
dtwot atmxqr wnaxjh gm wga vhmvqh u jhuamnulqh vjmavhjwgs. Wg dua gth rxgs
my gth Xnwghr Agugha gm uaawag gth Jhvxlqwo my Qwlhjwu wn uoomjrunoh dwgt
mxj twagmjwouq wnghjhag unr imjuq zxujrwunatwv my u omiixnwgs ymxnrhr ls
Uihjwoun owgwfhna, ua wg dua uqam gth rxgs my gth Uihjwoun Zmkhjnihng gm
ugghivg gm uaaxjh vhjiunhnoh gm u omxngjs my ixot ahngwihnguq unr vhjtuva
yxgxjh jhuq wnghjhag gm u qujzh lmrs my mxj owgwfhna.

IMJMOOM

Gth qhzugwmn ug Gunzwhj wa nmd wn otujzh my mxj omnaxq zhnhjuq, dtm wa
uogwnz ua otujzh r'uyyuwjha, ua dhqq ua oujwnz ymj mxj omiihjowuq wnghjhaga
wn gtug omxngjs. Wn kwhd my gth yuog gtug iuns my gth ymjhwzn vmdhja ujh
nmd jhvjhahnghr ls otujzha r'uyyuwjha wg tua nmg lhhn rhhihr nhohaaujs gm
uvvmwng ug gth vjhahng gwih u iwnwaghj gm ywqq u kuounos mooxjjwnz wn gtug
vmag.

GTH YUJ HUAG

Gth vmqwgwouq rwagxjlunoha wn Otwnu wn gth uxgxin unr dwnghj my 1911-12
jhaxqghr wn gth ulrwougwmn my gth Iunotx jxqhja mn Yhljxujs 12, ymqqmdhr ls
gth ymjiugwmn my u vjmkwawmnuq jhvxlqwoun zmkhjnihng hivmdhjhr gm omnrxog
gth uyyuwja my gth nugwmn xngwq u vhjiunhng zmkhjnihng iwztg lh jhzxqujqs
hagulqwathr. Gth nugxjuq asivugts my gth Uihjwoun vhmvqh dwgt gth
uaaxivgwmn my jhvxlqwoun vjwnowvqha ls gth Otwnhah vhmvqh dua uvvjmvjwughqs
hcvjhaahr wn u omnoxjjhng jhamqxgwmn my Omnzjhaa mn Uvjwq 17, 1912. U
omnagwgxhng uaahilqs, omivmahr my jhvjhahngugwkha rxqs otmahn ls gth vhmvqh
my Otwnu wn gth hqhogwmna gtug ujh nmd lhwnz thqr, tua lhhn ouqqhr gm ihhg
wn Bunxujs nhcg gm urmvg u vhjiunhng omnagwgxgwmn unr mjzunwfh gth
Zmkhjnihng my gth nuaohng Jhvxlqwo. Rxjwnz gth ymjiugwkh omnagwgxgwmnuq
aguzh unr vhnrwnz rhywnwgh uogwmn ls gth uaahilqs, ua hcvjhaawkh my gth
vmvxquj dwqq, unr gth tmvhr-ymj hagulqwatihng my u agulqh jhvxlqwoun ymji
my zmkhjnihng, ouvulqh my yxqywqqwnz wga wnghjnugwmnuq mlqwzugwmna, gth
Xnwghr Agugha wa, uoomjrwnz gm vjhohrhng, iuwnguwnwnz yxqq unr yjwhnrqs rh
yuogm jhqugwmna dwgt gth vjmkwawmnuq Zmkhjnihng.

Gth nhd omnrwgwmn my uyyuwja gtxa ojhughr tua vjhahnghr iuns ahjwmxa unr
omivqwoughr vjmlqhia, lmgt my wnghjnuq jhtulwqwgugwmn unr my wnghjnugwmnuq
jhqugwmna, dtmah amqxgwmn wg dua jhuqwfhr dmxqr nhohaaujwqs jhpxwjh ixot
gwih unr vugwhnoh. Yjmi gth lhzwnnwnz my gth xvthukuq quag uxgxin wg dua
yhqg ls gth Xnwghr Agugha, wn omiimn dwgt gth mgthj vmdhja tukwnz qujzh
wnghjhaga wn Otwnu, gtug wnrhvhnrhng uogwmn ls gth ymjhwzn Zmkhjnihnga wn
gthwj mdn wnrwkwrxuq wnghjhaga dmxqr urr yxjgthj omnyxawmn gm u awgxugwmn
uqjhurs omivqwoughr. U vmqwos my wnghjnugwmnuq ommvhjugwmn dua uoomjrwnzqs
urmvghr wn un xnrhjagunrwnz, jhuothr hujqs wn gth rwagxjlunoha, gm uog
gmzhgthj ymj gth vjmghogwmn my gth qwkha unr vjmvhjgs my ymjhwznhja wy
ihnuohr, gm iuwnguwn un uggwgxrh my agjwog wivujgwuqwgs ua lhgdhhn gth
omnghnrwnz yuogwmna, unr gm ulaguwn yjmi uns hnrhukmj gm wnyqxhnoh gth
Otwnhah wn gthwj mjzunwfugwmn my u nhd ymji my zmkhjnihng. Wn kwhd my gth
ahjwmxanhaa my gth rwagxjlunoha unr gthwj zhnhjuq otujuoghj, gth Uihjwoun
iwnwaghj ug Vhewnz dua wnagjxoghr ug twa rwaojhgwmn gm urkwah mxj nugwmnuqa
wn gth uyyhoghr rwagjwoga gm omnohngjugh ug axot ohnghja ua dhjh huawqs
uoohaawlqh gm ymjhwzn gjmmva mj ihn my duj. Nwnhghhn my mxj nukuq khaahqa
dhjh agugwmnhr ug kujwmxa Otwnhah vmjga, unr mgthj ihuaxjha dhjh vjmivgqs
guehn ymj gth urhpxugh vjmghogwmn my Uihjwoun wnghjhaga.

Wg dua yxjgthj ixgxuqqs uzjhhr, wn gth tmvh my tuaghnwnz un hnr gm
tmagwqwgwha, gtug nmnh my gth wnghjhaghr vmdhja dmxqr uvvjmkh gth iuewnz my
qmuna ls wga nugwmnuqa gm hwgthj awrh. Ua ammn, tmdhkhj, ua u xnwghr
vjmkwawmnuq Zmkhjnihng my Otwnu dua uaaxjhr, gth Xnwghr Agugha bmwnhr wn u
yukmjulqh omnawrhjugwmn my gtug Zmkhjnihng'a jhpxhag ymj urkunoha nhhrhr
ymj wiihrwugh uriwnwagjugwkh nhohaawgwha unr qughj ymj u qmun gm hyyhog u
vhjiunhng nugwmnuq jhmjzunwfugwmn. Gth wnghjhaghr Zmkhjnihnga tur uqjhurs,
ls omiimn omnahng, urmvghr, wn jhavhog gm gth vxjvmaha, hcvhnrwgxjh, unr
ahoxjwgs my uns qmuna gm Otwnu iurh ls gthwj nugwmnuqa, ohjguwn omnrwgwmna
dtwot dhjh thqr gm lh haahngwuq, nmg mnqs gm ahoxjh jhuamnulqh vjmghogwmn
ymj gth ymjhwzn wnkhagmja, lxg uqam gm auyhzxujr unr agjhnzgthn Otwnu'a
ojhrwg ls rwaomxjuzwnz wnrwaojwiwnugh lmjjmdwnz unr ls wnaxjwnz gth
uvvqwougwmn my gth yxnra gmdujr gth hagulqwatihng my gth agulqh unr
hyyhogwkh zmkhjnihng nhohaaujs gm Otwnu'a dhqyujh. Wn Bxnh quag
jhvjhahngugwkh lunewnz zjmxva my gth Xnwghr Agugha, Yjunoh, Zhjiuns, Zjhug
Ljwguwn, Buvun, unr Jxaawu ymjixqughr, dwgt gth zhnhjuq aunogwmn my gthwj
jhavhogwkh Zmkhjnihnga, gth zxujungwha gtug dmxqr lh hcvhoghr wn jhqugwmn
gm gth hcvhnrwgxjh unr ahoxjwgs my gth qujzh jhmjzunwfugwmn qmun rhawjhr ls
Otwnu, dtwot, tmdhkhj, tukh gtxa yuj vjmkhr xnuoohvgulqh gm gth vjmkwawmnuq
Zmkhjnihng.

AVHOWUQ IWAAWMN MY OMNRMQHNOH GM BUVUN

Wn Uxzxag quag W uoojhrwghr gth Ahojhgujs my Agugh ua avhowuq uiluaaurmj gm
Buvun, otujzhr dwgt gth iwaawmn my lhujwnz gm gth wivhjwuq yuiwqs, gth
Zmkhjnihng, unr gth vhmvqh my gtug Hivwjh gth asivugthgwo ihaauzh my gth
Uihjwoun Omiimndhuqgt mwq gth aur moouawmn my gth rhugt my Twa Iubhags gth
Hivhjmj Ixgaxtwgm, dtmah qmnz unr lhnhkmqhng jhwzn dua gth zjhughj vujg my
Buvun'a imrhjn twagmjs. Gth ewnrqs jhohvgwmn hkhjsdthjh uoomjrhr gm
Ahojhgujs Enmc atmdhr gtug twa iwaawmn dua rhhvqs uvvjhowughr ls gth
Buvunhah nugwmn unr hivtuawfhr agjmnzqs gth yjwhnrqs jhqugwmna gtug tukh
ymj am iuns shuja hcwaghr lhgdhhn gth gdm vhmvqha.

AMXGT UIHJWOU

Mxj jhqugwmna dwgt gth Ujzhngwnh Jhvxlqwo ujh imag yjwhnrqs unr omjrwuq.
Am, uqam, ujh mxj jhqugwmna dwgt Ljufwq, dtmah Zmkhjnihng tua uoohvghr gth
wnkwgugwmn my gth Xnwghr Agugha gm ahnr gdm ujis myywohja gm agxrs ug gth
Omuag Ujgwqqhjs Aotmmq ug Ymjg Imnjmh. Gth qmnz-agunrwnz Uqamv oquwi, dtwot
tur lhhn gth mnqs twnrjunoh gm gth thuqgts zjmdgt my gth imag yjwhnrqs
jhqugwmna lhgdhhn gth Xnwghr Agugha unr Otwqh, tukwnz lhhn hqwiwnughr
gtjmxzt gth axliwaawmn my gth pxhagwmn gm Twa Ljwgunnwo Iubhags Ewnz Zhmjzh
K ua "uiwulqh omivmawghxj," wg wa u ouxah my ixot zjugwywougwmn gm ih gtug
mxj jhqugwmna dwgt Otwqh ujh nmd hagulqwathr xvmn u ywji luawa my zjmdwnz
yjwhnratwv. Gth Otwqhun Zmkhjnihng tua vquohr un myywohj my gth Xnwghr
Agugha Omuag Ujgwqqhjs wn otujzh my gth Otwqhun Omuag Ujgwqqhjs Aotmmq, unr
tua atmdn uvvjhowugwmn my Uihjwoun ihgtmra ls omnywrwnz gm un Uihjwoun ywji
wivmjgung dmje ymj gth Otwqhun omuag rhyhnaha.

Quag shuj u jhkmqxgwmn uzuwnag gth hagulqwathr Zmkhjnihng my Hoxurmj ljmeh
mxg ug gth vjwnowvuq vmjg my gtug Jhvxlqwo. Vjhkwmxa gm gtwa mooxjjhnoh gth
otwhy Uihjwoun wnghjhag wn Hoxurmj, jhvjhahnghr ls gth Zxusupxwq &uiv; Pxwgm
Juwqdus Om., wnomjvmjughr wn gth Xnwghr Agugha, tur jhnrhjhr hcghnawkh
gjunavmjgugwmn unr mgthj ahjkwoha mn uoomxng gm gth Hoxurmjwun Zmkhjnihng,
gth uimxng my dtwot jun wngm u axi dtwot dua aghurwqs wnojhuawnz unr dtwot
gth Hoxurmjwun Zmkhjnihng tur iurh nm vjmkwawmn gm vus, gthjhls gtjhughnwnz
gm ojxat mxg gth khjs hcwaghnoh my gtwa Uihjwoun hnghjvjwah. Dthn
gjunpxwqqwgs tur lhhn jhagmjhr gm Hoxurmj ua u jhaxqg my gth gjwxivtung
vjmzjhaa my gth Zmkhjnihng ymjoha yjmi Pxwgm, gtwa Zmkhjnihng wnghjvmahr
wga zmmr myywoha gm gth hnr gtug gth Uihjwoun wnghjhaga wn Hoxurmj iwztg lh
aukhr yjmi omivqhgh hcgwnogwmn. Ua u vujg my gth ujjunzhihng dtwot dua
jhuothr lhgdhhn gth vujgwha, unr ug gth jhpxhag my gth Zmkhjnihng my
Hoxurmj, W tukh omnahnghr gm nuih un ujlwgjugmj, dtm, uogwnz xnrhj gth
ghjia my gth juwqjmur omngjuog, dwgt un ujlwgjugmj nuihr ls gth Hoxurmjwun
Zmkhjnihng, dwqq vuaa xvmn gth oquwia gtug tukh ujwahn awnoh gth
ujjunzhihng jhuothr gtjmxzt gth uogwmn my u awiwquj ujlwgjuq gjwlxnuq wn
1908.

Wn vxjaxunoh my u jhpxhag iurh amih gwih uzm ls gth Hoxurmjwun Zmkhjnihng,
gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh tua zwkhn ixot ugghngwmn gm gth vjmlqhi my gth
vjmvhj aunwgugwmn my Zxusupxwq. Ua u jhaxqg u rhguwq my myywohja my gth
Ounuq Fmnh dwqq lh ahng gm Zxusupxwq gm jhomiihnr ihuaxjha gtug dwqq qhur
gm gth omivqhgh vhjiunhng aunwgugwmn my gtwa vquzxh unr yhkhj wnyhoghr
jhzwmn my gtug Jhvxlqwo, dtwot tua ymj am qmnz omnagwgxghr u ihnuoh gm
thuqgt omnrwgwmna mn gth Ounuq Fmnh. Wg wa tmvhr gtug gth jhvmjg dtwot gtwa
iwaawmn dwqq yxjnwat dwqq vmwng mxg u dus dthjhls gth imrwoxi my uaawagunoh
dtwot gth Xnwghr Agugha ius vjmvhjqs qhnr gth Hoxurmjwun Zmkhjnihng ius lh
iurh hyyhogwkh wn jwrrwnz gth dhag omuag my Amxgt Uihjwou my u ymoxa my
omnguzwmn gm gth yxgxjh omiihjowuq oxjjhng vuaawnz gtjmxzt gth Vunuiu
Ounuq.

Wn gth iugghj my gth oquwi my Bmtn Ohqhagwnh Qunrjhux uzuwnag gth
Zmkhjnihng my Vhjx, dtwot oquwi ujwaha mxg my ohjguwn omngjuoga unr
gjunauogwmna wn omnnhogwmn dwgt gth rwaomkhjs unr hcvqmwgugwmn my zxunm,
unr dtwot tua lhhn xnrhj rwaoxaawmn lhgdhhn gth gdm Zmkhjnihnga awnoh 1874,
W ui zqur gm jhvmjg gtug ua gth jhaxqg my vjmqmnzhr nhzmgwugwmna, dtwot
tukh lhhn otujuoghjwfhr ls gth xgimag yjwhnrqwnhaa unr zmmr dwqq mn lmgt
awrha, gth Rhvujgihng my Agugh tua axoohhrhr wn ahoxjwnz gth omnahng my
Vhjx gm gth ujlwgjugwmn my gth oquwi, unr gtug gth nhzmgwugwmna ugghnrwnz
gth rjuygwnz unr awznugxjh my u vjmgmomq axliwggwnz gth oquwi gm un
ujlwgjuq gjwlxnuq ujh vjmohhrwnz dwgt rxh ohqhjwgs.

Un myywohj my gth Uihjwoun Vxlqwo Thuqgt Ahjkwoh unr un Uihjwoun aunwgujs
hnzwnhhj ujh nmd mn gth dus gm Wpxwgma, wn gth hivqms my gth Vhjxkwun
Zmkhjnihng, gm gueh otujzh my gth aunwgugwmn my gtug jwkhj vmjg. Vhjx wa
lxwqrwnz u nxilhj my axliujwnha wn gtwa omxngjs, unr omngwnxha gm atmd
hkhjs rhawjh gm tukh Uihjwoun ouvwguq wnkhaghr wn gth Jhvxlqwo.

Wn Bxqs gth Xnwghr Agugha ahng xnrhjzjurxugh rhqhzugha gm gth Gtwjr
Wnghjnugwmnuq Agxrhnga Omnzjhaa thqr ug Qwiu, Uihjwoun agxrhnga tukwnz lhhn
ymj gth ywjag gwih wnkwghr gm mnh my gthah ihhgwnza.

Gth Jhvxlqwo my Xjxzxus tua atmdn wga uvvjhowugwmn my Uihjwoun uzjwoxqgxjuq
unr mgthj ihgtmra ls ahnrwnz u qujzh omiiwaawmn gm gtwa omxngjs unr ls
hivqmswnz iuns Uihjwoun hcvhjga gm uaawag wn lxwqrwnz xv uzjwoxqgxjuq unr
uqqwhr wnrxagjwha wn Xjxzxus.

Khnhfxhqu wa vuswnz myy gth quag my gth oquwia gth ahggqhihng my dtwot dua
vjmkwrhr ymj ls gth Duatwnzgmn vjmgmomqa, wnoqxrwnz gtmah my Uihjwoun
owgwfhna. Mxj jhqugwmna dwgt Khnhfxhqu ujh imag omjrwuq, unr gth gjurh my
gtug Jhvxlqwo dwgt gth Xnwghr Agugha wa nmd zjhughj gtun dwgt uns mgthj
omxngjs.

OHNGJUQ UIHJWOU UNR GTH OUJWLLHUN

Rxjwnz gth vuag axiihj gth jhkmqxgwmn uzuwnag gth uriwnwagjugwmn dtwot
ymqqmdhr gth uaauaawnugwmn my Vjhawrhng Ouohjha u shuj uzm quag Nmkhilhj
ljmxztg gth Rmiwnwoun Jhvxlqwo gm gth khjzh my uriwnwagjugwkh otuma,
dwgtmxg myyhjwnz uns zxujungwha my hkhngxuq agulwqwgs wn gth xqgwiugh
axoohaa my hwgthj vujgs. Wn vxjaxunoh my gth gjhugs jhqugwmna my gth Xnwghr
Agugha dwgt gth Rmiwnwoun Jhvxlqwo, dtwot dhjh gtjhughnhr ls gth nhohaawgs
my axavhnrwnz gth mvhjugwmn xnrhj Uihjwoun uriwnwagjugwmn my gth
oxagmitmxaha mn gth Tuwgwun yjmngwhj, wg dua ymxnr nhohaaujs gm rwavugot
avhowuq omiiwaawmnhja gm gth waqunr gm jhhagulqwat gth oxagmitmxaha unr
dwgt u zxujr axyywowhng gm wnaxjh nhhrhr vjmghogwmn gm gth oxagmia
uriwnwagjugwmn. Gth hyymjga dtwot tukh lhhn iurh uvvhuj gm tukh jhaxqghr wn
gth jhagmjugwmn my nmjiuq omnrwgwmna gtjmxztmxg gth Jhvxlqwo. Gth zmmr
myywoha dtwot gth omiiwaawmnhja dhjh ulqh gm hchjowah dhjh wnagjxihnguq wn
ljwnzwnz gth omnghnrwnz vujgwha gmzhgthj unr wn yxjnwatwnz u luawa my
urbxagihng dtwot wg wa tmvhr dwqq jhaxqg wn vhjiunhng lhnhywg gm gth
Rmiwnwoun vhmvqh.

Iwnryxq my wga gjhugs jhqugwmna, unr mdwnz gm gth vmawgwmn my gth
Zmkhjnihng my gth Xnwghr Agugha ua ihrwugmj lhgdhhn gth Rmiwnwoun Jhvxlqwo
unr Tuwgw wn gthwj lmxnrujs rwavxgh, unr lhouxah my gth yxjgthj yuog gtug
gth jhkmqxgwmnujs uogwkwgwha mn gth Tuwgwun-Rmiwnwoun yjmngwhj tur lhomih
am uogwkh ua vjuogwouqqs gm mlqwghjugh gth qwnh my rhiujougwmn gtug tur
lhhn thjhgmymjh jhomznwfhr vhnrwnz gth rhywnwgwkh ahggqhihng my gth
lmxnrujs wn omngjmkhjas, wg dua ymxnr nhohaaujs gm wnrwough gm gth gdm
waqunr Zmkhjnihnga u vjmkwawmnuq rh yuogm lmxnrujs qwnh. Gtwa dua rmnh
dwgtmxg vjhbxrwoh gm gth jwztga mj mlqwzugwmna my hwgthj omxngjs wn u ywnuq
ahggqhihng gm lh jhuothr ls ujlwgjugwmn. Gth ghngugwkh qwnh otmahn dua mnh
dtwot, xnrhj gth owjoxiagunoha ljmxztg gm gth enmdqhrzh my gtwa Zmkhjnihng,
ahhihr gm omnymji gm gth lhag wnghjhaga my gth rwavxgunga. Gth lmjrhj
vugjmq dtwot wg tur lhhn ymxnr nhohaaujs gm jhhagulqwat ymj oxagmia
vxjvmaha lhgdhhn gth gdm omxngjwha dua wnagjxoghr vjmkwawmnuqqs gm mlahjkh
gtwa qwnh.

Gth Jhvxlqwo my Oxlu quag Ius dua wn gth gtjmha my u qudqhaa xvjwawnz gtug
ymj u gwih gtjhughnhr gth rhagjxogwmn my u zjhug rhuq my kuqxulqh
vjmvhjgs-ixot my wg mdnhr ls Uihjwouna unr mgthj ymjhwznhja-ua dhqq ua gth
hcwaghnoh my gth Zmkhjnihng wgahqy. Gth ujihr ymjoha my Oxlu lhwnz
wnurhpxugh gm zxujr vjmvhjgs yjmi ugguoe unr ug gth auih gwih vjmvhjqs gm
mvhjugh uzuwnag gth jhlhqa, u ymjoh my Uihjwoun iujwnha dua rwavugothr yjmi
mxj nukuq agugwmn ug Zxungunuim wngm gth Vjmkwnoh my Mjwhngh ymj gth
vjmghogwmn my Uihjwoun unr mgthj ymjhwzn qwyh unr vjmvhjgs. Gth Oxlun
Zmkhjnihng dua gtxa ulqh gm xah uqq wga ymjoha wn vxggwnz rmdn gth
mxgljhue, dtwot wg axoohhrhr wn rmwnz wn u vhjwmr my awc dhhea. Gth
vjhahnoh my gdm Uihjwoun dujatwva wn gth tujlmj my Tulunu rxjwnz gth imag
ojwgwouq vhjwmr my gtwa rwagxjlunoh omngjwlxghr wn zjhug ihuaxjh gm uqqus
gth yhuja my gth wntulwgunga, wnoqxrwnz u qujzh ymjhwzn omqmns.

Gthjh tua lhhn xnrhj rwaoxaawmn dwgt gth Zmkhjnihng my Oxlu ymj amih gwih
gth pxhagwmn my gth jhqhuah ls gtwa Zmkhjnihng my wga qhuahtmqr jwztga ug
Lutwu Tmnru, mn gth nmjgthjn omuag my Oxlu, unr gth hnqujzhihng, wn
hcotunzh gthjhymj, my gth nukuq agugwmn dtwot tua lhhn hagulqwathr ug
Zxungunuim Lus, mn gth amxgt. Ua gth jhaxqg my gth nhzmgwugwmna gtxa
oujjwhr mn un uzjhhihng tua lhhn jhuothr lhgdhhn gth gdm Zmkhjnihnga
vjmkwrwnz ymj gth axwgulqh hnqujzhihng my gth Zxungunuim Lus agugwmn xvmn
ghjia dtwot ujh hngwjhqs yuwj unr hpxwgulqh gm uqq vujgwha omnohjnhr.

Ug gth jhpxhag uqweh my gth Zmkhjnihng unr lmgt vmqwgwouq vujgwha wn
Vunuiu, un Uihjwoun omiiwaawmn xnrhjgmme axvhjkwawmn my gth jhohng
vjhawrhngwuq hqhogwmn wn gtug Jhvxlqwo, dthjh mxj gjhugs jhqugwmna, unr,
wnrhhr, hkhjs zhmzjuvtwouq omnawrhjugwmn, iueh gth iuwnghnunoh my mjrhj unr
augwayuogmjs omnrwgwmna my vhoxqwuj wnghjhag gm gth Zmkhjnihng my gth
Xnwghr Agugha. Gth hqhogwmna vuaahr dwgtmxg rwamjrhj, unr gth nhd
uriwnwagjugwmn tua hnghjhr xvmn wga yxnogwmna.

Gth Zmkhjnihng my Zjhug Ljwguwn tua uaehr gth axvvmjg my gth Xnwghr Agugha
ymj gth vjmghogwmn my gth wnghjhaga my Ljwgwat tmqrhja my gth ymjhwzn
lmnrhr rhlg my Zxughiuqu. Dtwqh gtwa Zmkhjnihng wa tmvhyxq my un
ujjunzhihng hpxwgulqh gm gth Ljwgwat lmnrtmqrhja, wg wa nugxjuqqs xnulqh gm
kwhd gth pxhagwmn uvujg yjmi wga jhqugwmn gm gth ljmur axlbhog my ywnunowuq
agulwqwgs wn Ohngjuq Uihjwou, wn dtwot gth vmqwos my gth Xnwghr Agugha rmha
nmg vhjiwg wg gm haouvh u kwguq wnghjhag. Gtjmxzt u jhnhduq my nhzmgwugwmna
lhgdhhn gth Zmkhjnihng my Zxughiuqu unr Uihjwoun lunehja, gth uwi my dtwot
wa u qmun ymj gth jhtulwqwgugwmn my Zxughiuqun ywnunoha, u dus uvvhuja gm
lh mvhn ls dtwot gth Zmkhjnihng my Zxughiuqu omxqr vjmivgqs augways uns
hpxwgulqh unr bxag Ljwgwat oquwia, unr ug gth auih gwih am wivjmkh wga
dtmqh ywnunowuq vmawgwmn ua gm omngjwlxgh zjhugqs gm gth wnojhuahr
vjmavhjwgs my gth Jhvxlqwo unr gm jhrmxnr gm gth lhnhywg my ymjhwzn
wnkhagihnga unr ymjhwzn gjurh dwgt gtug omxngjs. Yuwqwnz axot un
ujjunzhihng, wg ius lhomih wivmaawlqh ymj gth Zmkhjnihng my gth Xnwghr
Agugha gm haouvh wga mlqwzugwmna wn omnnhogwmn dwgt axot ihuaxjha ua ius
lhomih nhohaaujs gm hcuog bxagwoh gm qhzwgwiugh ymjhwzn oquwia.

Wn gth jhohng jhkmqxgwmn wn Nwoujuzxu, dtwot, wg dua zhnhjuqqs uriwgghr,
iwztg dhqq tukh jhaxqghr wn u zhnhjuq Ohngjuq Uihjwoun omnyqwog lxg ymj gth
wnghjkhngwmn my gth Xnwghr Agugha, gth Zmkhjnihng my Tmnrxjua dua
havhowuqqs ihnuohr; lxg ymjgxnughqs vhuohyxq omnrwgwmna dhjh iuwnguwnhr
dwgtwn gth lmjrhja my gtug Jhvxlqwo. Gth ywnunowuq omnrwgwmn my gtug
omxngjs jhiuwna xnotunzhr, nm ihuna tukwnz lhhn ymxnr ymj gth ywnuq
urbxagihng my vjhaawnz mxgagunrwnz ymjhwzn oquwia. Gtwa iueha wg gth imjh
jhzjhggulqh gtug gth ywnunowuq omnkhngwmn lhgdhhn gth Xnwghr Agugha unr
Tmnrxjua tua gtxa yuj yuwqhr my jugwywougwmn. Gth Zmkhjnihng my gth Xnwghr
Agugha omngwnxha gm tmqr wgahqy jhurs gm ommvhjugh dwgt gth Zmkhjnihng my
Tmnrxjua, dtwot wg wa lhqwhkhr, oun nmg ixot qmnzhj rhqus gth ihhgwnz my
wga ymjhwzn mlqwzugwmna, unr wg wa tmvhr ug gth vjmvhj gwih Uihjwoun
lunehja dwqq lh dwqqwnz gm ommvhjugh ymj gtwa vxjvmah.

NHOHAAWGS YMJ ZJHUGHJ ZMKHJNIHNGUQ HYYMJG WN JHGHNGWMN UNR HCVUNAWMN MY MXJ
YMJHWZN GJURH

Wg wa nmg vmaawlqh gm iueh gm gth Omnzjhaa u omiixnwougwmn xvmn gth vjhahng
ymjhwzn jhqugwmna my gth Xnwghr Agugha am rhguwqhr ua gm omnkhs un urhpxugh
wivjhaawmn my gth hnmjimxa wnojhuah wn gth wivmjgunoh unr uogwkwgwha my
gtmah jhqugwmna. Wy gtwa Zmkhjnihng wa jhuqqs gm vjhahjkh gm gth Uihjwoun
vhmvqh gtug yjhh mvvmjgxnwgs wn ymjhwzn iujehga dtwot dwqq ammn lh
wnrwavhnaulqh gm mxj vjmavhjwgs, hkhn zjhughj hyymjga ixag lh iurh.
Mgthjdwah gth Uihjwoun ihjotung, iunxyuogxjhj, unr hcvmjghj dwqq ywnr iuns
u ywhqr wn dtwot Uihjwoun gjurh atmxqr qmzwouqqs vjhrmiwnugh vjhhivghr
gtjmxzt gth imjh hnhjzhgwo hyymjga my mgthj zmkhjnihnga unr mgthj
omiihjowuq nugwmna.

Gthjh ujh iuns dusa wn dtwot gtjmxzt thujgs ommvhjugwmn gth qhzwaqugwkh unr
hchoxgwkh ljunotha my gtwa Zmkhjnihng oun rm ixot. Gth ulamqxgh haahngwuq
wa gth avwjwg my xnwghr hyymjg unr awnzqhnhaa my vxjvmah. W dwqq uqqxrh
mnqs gm u khjs yhd avhowywo hcuivqha my uogwmn dtwot mxztg gthn gm jhaxqg.
Uihjwou oun nmg gueh wga vjmvhj vquoh wn gth imag wivmjgung ywhqra ymj wga
omiihjowuq uogwkwgs unr hnghjvjwah xnqhaa dh tukh u ihjotung iujwnh.
Uihjwoun omiihjoh unr hnghjvjwah oun nmg lh hyyhogwkhqs ymaghjhr wn gtmah
ywhqra xnqhaa dh tukh zmmr Uihjwoun lunea wn gth omxngjwha jhyhjjhr gm. Dh
nhhr Uihjwoun nhdavuvhja wn gtmah omxngjwha unr vjmvhj ihuna ymj vxlqwo
wnymjiugwmn ulmxg gthi. Dh nhhr gm uaaxjh gth vhjiunhnos my u gjuwnhr
ymjhwzn ahjkwoh. Dh nhhr qhzwaqugwmn hnulqwnz gth ihilhja my gth ymjhwzn
ahjkwoh gm lh asaghiugwouqqs ljmxztg wn rwjhog omnguog dwgt gth wnrxagjwuq,
iunxyuogxjwnz, unr hcvmjgwnz wnghjhaga my gtwa omxngjs wn mjrhj gtug
Uihjwoun lxawnhaa ihn ius hnghj gth ymjhwzn ywhqr dwgt u oqhuj vhjohvgwmn
my gth hcuog omnrwgwmna gm lh rhuqg dwgt unr gth myywohja gthiahqkha ius
vjmahoxgh gthwj dmje dwgt u oqhuj wrhu my dtug Uihjwoun wnrxagjwuq unr
iunxyuogxjwnz wnghjhaga jhpxwjh.

OMNOQXAWMN

Omnzjhaa atmxqr yxqqs jhuqwfh gth omnrwgwmna dtwot mlguwn wn gth dmjqr ua
dh ywnr mxjahqkha ug gth gtjhatmqr my mxj iwrrqh uzh ua u Nugwmn. Dh tukh
hihjzhr yxqq zjmdn ua u vhhj wn gth zjhug omnomxjah my nugwmna. Dh tukh
vuaahr gtjmxzt kujwmxa ymjiugwkh vhjwmra. Dh tukh lhhn ahqy-ohnghjhr wn gth
agjxzzqh gm rhkhqmv mxj rmihagwo jhamxjoha unr rhuq dwgt mxj rmihagwo
pxhagwmna. Gth Nugwmn wa nmd gmm iugxjhr gm omngwnxh wn wga ymjhwzn
jhqugwmna gtmah ghivmjujs hcvhrwhnga nugxjuq gm u vhmvqh gm dtmi rmihagwo
uyyuwja ujh gth amqh omnohjn. Wn gth vuag mxj rwvqmiuos tua myghn
omnawaghr, wn nmjiuq gwiha, wn u ihjh uaahjgwmn my gth jwztg gm
wnghjnugwmnuq hcwaghnoh. Dh ujh nmd wn u qujzhj jhqugwmn dwgt ljmurhj
jwztga my mxj mdn unr mlqwzugwmna gm mgthja gtun mxjahqkha. U nxilhj my
zjhug zxwrwnz vjwnowvqha dhjh quwr rmdn hujqs wn gth twagmjs my gtwa
Zmkhjnihng. Gth jhohng guae my mxj rwvqmiuos tua lhhn gm urbxag gtmah
vjwnowvqha gm gth omnrwgwmna my gm-rus, gm rhkhqmv gthwj omjmqqujwha, gm
ywnr vjuogwouq uvvqwougwmna my gth mqr vjwnowvqha hcvunrhr gm ihhg nhd
awgxugwmna. Gtxa ujh lhwnz hkmqkhr luaha xvmn dtwot oun jhag gth
axvhjagjxogxjh my vmqwowha dtwot ixag zjmd dwgt gth rhagwnhr vjmzjhaa my
gtwa Nugwmn. Gth axoohaayxq omnrxog my mxj ymjhwzn jhqugwmna rhiunra u
ljmur unr u imrhjn kwhd. Dh oun nmg ihhg nhd pxhagwmna nmj lxwqr ymj gth
yxgxjh wy dh omnywnh mxjahqkha gm mxgdmjn rmziua my gth vuag unr gm gth
vhjavhogwkh uvvjmvjwugh ug mxj hihjzhnoh yjmi omqmnwuq gwiha unr
omnrwgwmna. Gth mvhnwnz my gth Vunuiu Ounuq dwqq iuje u nhd hju wn mxj
wnghjnugwmnuq qwyh unr ojhugh nhd unr dmjqrdwrh omnrwgwmna dtwot, dwgt
gthwj kuag omjjhqugwmna unr omnahpxhnoha, dwqq mlguwn ymj txnrjhra my shuja
gm omih. Dh ixag nmg duwg ymj hkhnga gm mkhjgueh xa xnudujha. Dwgt
omngwnxwgs my vxjvmah dh ixag rhuq dwgt gth vjmlqhia my mxj hcghjnuq
jhqugwmna ls u rwvqmiuos imrhjn, jhamxjohyxq, iuznunwimxa, unr ywggwnzqs
hcvjhaawkh my gth twzt wrhuqa my u zjhug nugwmn.

VUJG WW.
[Mn Ywaouq, bxrwowuq, Iwqwgujs unr Wnaxquj Uyyuwja.] 
GTH DTWGH TMXAH, Rhohilhj 6, 1912. Gm gth Ahnugh unr Tmxah my Jhvjhahngugwkha:

Mn gth 3r my Rhohilhj W ahng u ihaauzh gm gth Omnzjhaa, dtwot dua omnywnhr
gm mxj ymjhwzn jhqugwmna. Gth Ahojhgujs my Agugh iueha nm jhvmjg gm gth
Vjhawrhng mj gm Omnzjhaa, unr u jhkwhd my gth twagmjs my gth gjunauogwmna
my gth Agugh Rhvujgihng wn mnh shuj ixag gthjhymjh lh wnoqxrhr ls gth
Vjhawrhng wn twa unnxuq ihaauzh mj Omnzjhaa dwqq nmg lh yxqqs wnymjihr my
gthi. U yxqq rwaoxaawmn my uqq gth gjunauogwmna my gth Zmkhjnihng, dwgt u
kwhd gm wnymjiwnz gth Omnzjhaa my gth wivmjgung hkhnga my gth shuj unr
jhomiihnrwnz nhd qhzwaqugwmn, jhpxwjha imjh avuoh gtun mnh ihaauzh my
jhuamnulqh qhnzgt uyymjra. W tukh gthjhymjh urmvghr gth omxjah my ahnrwnz
gtjhh mj ymxj ihaauzha rxjwnz gth ywjag ghn rusa my gth ahaawmn, am ua gm
wnoqxrh jhyhjhnoh gm gth imjh wivmjgung iugghja gtug atmxqr lh ljmxztg gm
gth ugghngwmn my gth Omnzjhaa.

LXAWNHAA OMNRWGWMNA

Gth omnrwgwmn my gth omxngjs dwgt jhyhjhnoh gm lxawnhaa omxqr tujrqs lh
lhgghj. Dtwqh gth ymxj shuja my gth uriwnwagjugwmn nmd rjudwnz gm u oqmah
tukh nmg rhkhqmvhr zjhug avhoxqugwkh hcvunawmn mj u dwrh ywhqr my nhd
wnkhagihng, gth jhomkhjs unr vjmzjhaa iurh yjmi gth rhvjhaawnz omnrwgwmna
ymqqmdwnz gth vunwo my 1907 tukh lhhn aghurs unr gth wivjmkhihng tua lhhn
oqhuj unr huawqs gjuohr wn gth agugwagwoa. Gth lxawnhaa my gth omxngjs wa
nmd mn u amqwr luawa. Ojhrwga ujh nmg xnrxqs hcghnrhr, unr hkhjs vtuah my
gth awgxugwmn ahhia wn u agugh my vjhvujhrnhaa ymj u vhjwmr my xnhcuivqhr
vjmavhjwgs. Iunxyuogxjwnz omnohjna ujh jxnnwnz ug gthwj yxqq ouvuowgs unr
gth rhiunr ymj qulmj dua nhkhj am omnagung unr zjmdwnz. Gth ymjhwzn gjurh
my gth omxngjs ymj gtwa shuj dwqq hcohhr $4,000,000,000, dtwqh gth luqunoh
wn mxj yukmj-gtug my gth hcohaa my hcvmjga mkhj wivmjga-dwqq hcohhr
$500,000,000. Imjh gtun tuqy mxj hcvmjga ujh iunxyuogxjha mj vujgqs
iunxyuogxjhr iughjwuq, dtwqh mxj hcvmjga my yuji vjmrxoga rm nmg atmd gth
auih wnojhuah lhouxah my rmihagwo omnaxivgwmn. Wg wa u shuj my lxivhj
ojmva; gth gmguq imnhs kuqxh my yuji vjmrxoga dwqq hcohhr $9,500,000,000.
Wg wa u shuj dthn gth lxathq mj xnwg vjwoh my uzjwoxqgxjuq vjmrxoga tua
zjurxuqqs yuqqhn, unr shg gth gmguq kuqxh my gth hngwjh ojmv wa zjhughj ls
mkhj $1,000,000,000 gtun dh tukh enmdn wn mxj twagmjs.

OMNRWGWMN MY GTH GJHUAXJS

Gth omnrwgwmn my gth Gjhuaxjs wa khjs augwayuogmjs. Gth gmguq
wnghjhag-lhujwnz rhlg wa $963,777,770, my dtwot $134,631,980 omnagwgxgh gth
Vunuiu Ounuq qmun. Gth nmnwnghjhag-lhujwnz rhlg wa $378,301,284.90,
wnoqxrwnz $346,681,016 my zjhhnluoea. Dh tukh wn gth Gjhuaxjs $150,000,000
wn zmqr omwn ua u jhahjkh uzuwnag gth mxgagunrwnz zjhhnluoea; unr wn
urrwgwmn dh tukh u ouat luqunoh wn gth Gjhuaxjs ua u zhnhjuq yxnr my
$167,152,478.99, mj un wnojhuah my $26,975,552 mkhj gth zhnhjuq yxnr quag
shuj.

JHOHWVGA UNR HCVHNRWGXJHA

Ymj gtjhh shuja gth hcvhnrwgxjha my gth Zmkhjnihng tukh rhojhuahr xnrhj gth
wnyqxhnoh my un hyymjg gm homnmiwfh. Gtwa shuj vjhahnga un uvvujhng
hcohvgwmn. Gth hagwiugh ls gth Ahojhgujs my gth Gjhuaxjs my gth mjrwnujs
jhohwvga, hcoqxawkh my vmaguq jhkhnxha, ymj gth shuj hnrwnz Bxnh 30, 1914,
wnrwougha gtug gths dwqq uimxng gm $710,000,000. Gth axi my gth hagwiugha
my gth hcvhnrwgxjha ymj gtug auih shuj, hcoqxawkh my Vunuiu Ounuq
rwalxjahihnga unr vmaguq rwalxjahihnga vusulqh yjmi vmaguq jhkhnxha, wa
$732,000,000, wnrwougwnz u rhywowg My $22,000,000. Ymj gth shuj hnrwnz Bxnh
30, 1913, awiwqujqs hagwiughr jhohwvga dhjh $667,000,000, dtwqh gth gmguq
omjjhavmnrwnz hagwiugh my hcvhnrwgxjha ymj gtug shuj, axliwgghr gtjmxzt gth
Ahojhgujs my gth Gjhuaxjs gm Omnzjhaa, uimxnghr gm $656,000,000. Gtwa atmda
un wnojhuah my $76,000,000 wn gth hagwiugha ymj 1914 mkhj gth gmguq
hagwiugha my 1913. Gtwa wa rxh gm un wnojhuah My $25,000,000 wn gth
hagwiugh ymj jwkhja unr tujlmja ymj gth nhcg shuj mn vjmbhoga unr axjkhsa
uxgtmjwfhr ls Omnzjhaa; gm un wnojhuah xnrhj gth nhd vhnawmn lwqq My
$32,500,000; unr gm un wnojhuah wn gth hagwiugha ymj hcvhnaha my gth Nuks
Rhvujgihng My $24,000,000. Gth hagwiugh ymj gth Nuks Rhvujgihng ymj gth
shuj 1913 wnoqxrhr gdm luggqhatwva. Omnzjhaa iurh vjmkwawmn ymj mnqs mnh
luggqhatwv, unr gthjhymjh gth Nuks Rhvujgihng tua rhhihr wg nhohaaujs unr
vjmvhj gm iueh un hagwiugh dtwot wnoqxrha gth ywjag shuj'a hcvhnrwgxjh ymj
gtjhh luggqhatwva wn urrwgwmn gm gth uimxng jhpxwjhr ymj dmje mn gth
xnomivqhghr atwva nmd xnrhj omnagjxogwmn. Wn urrwgwmn gm gth nugxjuq
wnojhuah wn gth hcvhnrwgxjha ymj gth xnomivqhghr atwva, unr gth urrwgwmnuq
luggqhatwv hagwiughr ymj, gth mgthj wnojhuaha ujh rxh gm gth vus
jhpxwjhr ymj 4,000 mj imjh urrwgwmnuq hnqwaghr ihn wn gth Nuks; unr gm gtwa
ixag lh urrhr gth urrwgwmnuq omag my omnagjxogwmn wivmahr ls gth otunzh wn
gth hwztg-tmxj qud dtwot iueha wg uvvqwoulqh gm atwva lxwqg wn vjwkugh
atwvsujra.

Dwgt gth hcohvgwmna my gthah gtjhh wghia, gth hagwiugha atmd u jhrxogwmn
gtwa shuj lhqmd gth gmguq hagwiugha ymj 1913 my imjh gtun $5,000,000.

Gth hagwiugha ymj Vunuiu Ounuq omnagjxogwmn ymj 1914 ujh $17,000,000 qhaa
gtun ymj 1913.

MXJ LUNEWNZ UNR OXJJHNOS ASAGHI

U gwih dthn vunwoa ahhi yuj jhimkhr wa gth lhag gwih ymj xa gm vjhvujh mxj
ywnunowuq asaghi gm dwgtagunr u agmji. Gth imag ojswnz nhhr gtwa omxngjs
tua wa u vjmvhj lunewnz unr oxjjhnos asaghi. Gth hcwagwnz mnh wa
wnurhpxugh, unr hkhjsmnh dtm tua agxrwhr gth pxhagwmn uriwga wg.

Wg wa gth lxawnhaa my gth Nugwmnuq Zmkhjnihng gm vjmkwrh u ihrwxi,
uxgmiugwouqqs omngjuogwnz unr hcvunrwnz wn kmqxih, gm ihhg gth nhhra my
gjurh. Mxj vjhahng asaghi quoea gth wnrwavhnaulqh pxuqwgs my hquagwowgs.

Gth mnqs vujg my mxj imnhgujs ihrwxi gtug tua hquagwowgs wa gth lune-nmgh
oxjjhnos. Gth vhoxqwuj vjmkwawmna my gth qud jhpxwjwnz nugwmnuq lunea gm
iuwnguwn jhahjkha gm ihhg gth ouqq my gth rhvmawgmja mvhjugha gm wnojhuah
gth imnhs agjwnzhnos dthn wg ujwaha jugthj gtun gm hcvunr gth axvvqs my
oxjjhnos unr jhqwhkh wg. Wg mvhjugha xvmn huot lune unr yxjnwatha u imgwkh
ymj gth dwgtrjuduq my oxjjhnos yjmi gth otunnhqa my gjurh ls huot lune gm
aukh wgahqy, unr myyhja nm wnrxohihng dtughkhj ymj gth xah my gth jhahjkh
gm hcvunr gth axvvqs my oxjjhnos gm ihhg gth hcohvgwmnuq rhiunr.

Uyghj gth vunwo my 1907 Omnzjhaa jhuqwfhr gtug gth vjhahng asaghi dua nmg
uruvghr gm gth omxngjs'a nhhra unr gtug xnrhj wg vunwoa dhjh vmaawlqh gtug
iwztg vjmvhjqs lh ukmwrhr ls qhzwaqugwkh vjmkwawmn. Uoomjrwnzqs u imnhgujs
omiiwaawmn dua uvvmwnghr dtwot iurh u jhvmjg wn Yhljxujs, 1912. Gth asaghi
dtwot gths jhomiihnrhr wnkmqkhr u Nugwmnuq Jhahjkh Uaamowugwmn, dtwot dua,
wn ohjguwn my wga yuoxqgwha unr yxnogwmna, u lune, unr dtwot dua zwkhn
gtjmxzt wga zmkhjnwnz uxgtmjwgwha gth vmdhj, ls waaxwnz owjoxqugwnz nmgha
ymj uvvjmkhr omiihjowuq vuvhj, ls ywcwnz rwaomxnga, unr ls mgthj ihgtmra my
gjunayhj my oxjjhnos, gm hcvunr gth axvvqs my gth imnhgujs ihrwxi dthjh wg
dua imag nhhrhr gm vjhkhng gth hcvmjg mj tmujrwnz my zmqr unr zhnhjuqqs gm
hchjowah axot axvhjkwawmn mkhj gth axvvqs my imnhs wn hkhjs vujg my gth
omxngjs ua gm vjhkhng u agjwnzhnos unr u vunwo. Gth agmoe wn gtwa
uaamowugwmn dua gm lh rwagjwlxghr gm gth lunea my gth dtmqh Xnwghr Agugha,
Agugh unr Nugwmnuq, wn u iwchr vjmvmjgwmn gm lune xnwga unr gm ouvwguq
agmoe vuwr wn. Gth omngjmq my gth uaamowugwmn dua khaghr wn u lmujr my
rwjhogmja gm lh hqhoghr ls jhvjhahngugwkha my gth lunea, hcohvg ohjguwn
hc-myywowm rwjhogmja, gtjhh Oulwnhg myywohja, unr gth Omivgjmqqhj my gth
Oxjjhnos. Gth Vjhawrhng dua gm uvvmwng gth zmkhjnmj my gth uaamowugwmn yjmi
gtjhh vhjamna gm lh ahqhoghr ls gth rwjhogmja, dtwqh gth gdm rhvxgs
zmkhjnmja dhjh gm lh hqhoghr ls gth lmujr my rwjhogmja. Gth rhguwqa my gth
vqun dhjh dmjehr mxg dwgt zjhug oujh unr ulwqwgs, unr gth vqun wn zhnhjuq
ahhia gm ih gm yxjnwat gth luawa ymj u vjmvhj amqxgwmn my mxj vjhahng
rwyywoxqgwha. W yhhq gtug gth Zmkhjnihng iwztg khjs vjmvhjqs lh zwkhn u
zjhughj kmwoh wn gth hchoxgwkh omiiwgghh my gth lmujr my rwjhogmja dwgtmxg
runzhj my wnbhogwnz vmqwgwoa wngm wga iunuzhihng, lxg W gtwne gth
yhrhjugwmn asaghi my lunea wa u zmmr mnh, vjmkwrhr vjmvhj vjhouxgwmna ujh
guehn gm vjhkhng lunea my qujzh ouvwguq yjmi ulamjlwnz vmdhj gtjmxzt
mdnhjatwv my agmoe wn mgthj lunea. Gth mlbhogwmna gm u ohngjuq lune wg
ahhia gm ih ujh mlkwughr wy gth mdnhjatwv my gth jhahjkh uaamowugwmn wa
rwagjwlxghr uimnz uqq gth lunea my u omxngjs wn dtwot lunewnz wa yjhh. Gth
hujnwnza my gth jhahjkh uaamowugwmn ujh qwiwghr wn vhjohnguzh gwg u
jhuamnulqh unr ywchr uimxng, unr gth vjmywga mkhj unr ulmkh gtwa ujh gm lh
gxjnhr wngm gth Zmkhjnihng Gjhuaxjs. Wg wa pxwgh vjmlulqh gtug agwqq
zjhughj ahoxjwgs uzuwnag omngjmq ls imnhs ohnghja ius lh dmjehr wngm gth
vqun.

Ohjguwn wg wa, tmdhkhj, gtug gth mlbhogwmna dtwot dhjh iurh wn gth vuag
twagmjs my gtwa omxngjs gm u ohngjuq lune ua yxjnwatwnz u imnmvmqs my
ywnunowuq vmdhj gm vjwkugh wnrwkwrxuqa, dmxqr nmg uvvqs gm un uaamowugwmn
dtmah mdnhjatwv unr omngjmq wa am dwrhqs rwagjwlxghr unr wa rwkwrhr lhgdhhn
uqq gth lunea my gth omxngjs, Agugh unr Nugwmnuq, mn gth mnh tunr, unr gth
Otwhy Hchoxgwkh gtjmxzt gtjhh rhvujgihng thura unr twa Omivgjmqqhj my gth
Oxjjhnos, mn gth mgthj. Gth unowhng tmagwqwgs gm u nugwmnuq lune, dwgt wga
ljunotha, wn dtwot wa omnohngjughr gth vjwkwqhzh my rmwnz u lunewnz
lxawnhaa unr oujjswnz mn gth ywnunowuq gjunauogwmna my gth Zmkhjnihng, tua
vjhkhnghr gth hagulqwatihng my axot u lune awnoh wg dua ulmqwathr wn gth
Buoeamn Uriwnwagjugwmn. Mxj vjhahng nugwmnuq lunewnz qud tua mlkwughr
mlbhogwmna zjmdwnz mxg my gth auih ouxah ls vjmkwrwnz u yjhh lunewnz asaghi
wn dtwot uns ahg my agmoetmqrhja oun hagulqwat u nugwmnuq lune wy gths
omivqs dwgt gth omnrwgwmna my qud. Wg ahhia gm ih gtug gth Nugwmnuq Jhahjkh
Uaamowugwmn ihhga gth auih mlbhogwmn wn u awiwquj dus; gtug wa, ls zwkwnz
gm huot lune, Agugh unr Nugwmnuq, wn uoomjrunoh dwgt wga awfh, u ohjguwn
atujh wn gth agmoe my gth jhahjkh uaamowugwmn, nmngjunayhjulqh unr mnqs gm
lh thqr ls gth lune dtwqh wg vhjymjia wga yxnogwmna ua u vujgnhj wn gth
jhahjkh uaamowugwmn.

Gth jhvmjg my gth omiiwaawmn jhomiihnra vjmkwawmna ymj gth wivmawgwmn my u
zjurxughr guc mn gth hcvunrhr oxjjhnos my axot u otujuoghj ua gm yxjnwat u
imgwkh ymj jhrxownz gth waaxh my nmgha dthnhkhj gthwj vjhahnoh wn gth imnhs
iujehg wa nmg jhpxwjhr ls gth hcwzhnowha my gjurh. Wn mgthj dmjra, gth
dtmqh asaghi tua lhhn dmjehr mxg dwgt gth zjhughag oujh. Gthmjhgwouqqs wg
vjhahnga u vqun gtug mxztg gm omiiunr axvvmjg. Vjuogwouqqs wg ius jhpxwjh
imrwywougwmn wn kujwmxa my wga vjmkwawmna wn mjrhj gm iueh gth ahoxjwgs
uzuwnag, ulxaha ls omilwnugwmna uimnz gth lunea wivmaawlqh. Lxg wn gth yuoh
my gth ojswnz nhohaawgs gtug gthjh wa ymj wivjmkhihng wn mxj vjhahng
asaghi, W xjzhngqs wnkwgh gth ugghngwmn my Omnzjhaa gm gth vjmvmahr vqun
unr gth jhvmjg my gth omiiwaawmn, dwgt gth tmvh gtug un hujnhag
omnawrhjugwmn ius axzzhag uihnrihnga unr otunzha dwgtwn gth zhnhjuq vqun
dtwot dwqq qhur gm wga urmvgwmn ymj gth lhnhywg my gth omxngjs. Gthjh wa nm
oquaa wn gth omiixnwgs imjh wnghjhaghr wn u auyh unr aunh lunewnz unr
oxjjhnos asaghi, mnh dtwot dwqq vjhkhng vunwoa unr uxgmiugwouqqs yxjnwat wn
huot gjurh ohnghj gth oxjjhnos nhhrhr wn gth oujjswnz mn my gth lxawnhaa ug
gtug ohnghj, gtun gth duzh hujnhj. Gthjh wa nm oquaa wn gth omiixnwgs dtmah
hcvhjwhnoh lhgghj pxuqwywha gthi gm iueh axzzhagwmna ua gm gth axyywowhnos
my u oxjjhnos unr lunewnz asaghi gtun gth lunehja unr lxawnhaa ihn. Mxztg
dh, gthjhymjh, gm wznmjh gthwj jhomiihnrugwmna unr jhbhog gthwj ywnunowuq
bxrzihng ua gm gth vjmvhj ihgtmr my jhymjiwnz mxj ywnunowuq asaghi ihjhqs
lhouxah my gth axavwowmn dtwot hcwaga uzuwnag gthi wn gth iwnra my iuns my
mxj yhqqmd owgwfhna? Wa wg nmg gth rxgs my Omnzjhaa gm gueh xv gth vqun
axzzhaghr, hcuiwnh wg yjmi uqq agunrvmwnga, zwkh wivujgwuq omnawrhjugwmn gm
gth ghagwimns my gtmah dtmah hcvhjwhnoh mxztg gm ywg gthi gm zwkh gth lhag
urkwoh mn gth axlbhog, unr gthn gm urmvg amih vqun dtwot dwqq ahoxjh gth
lhnhywga rhawjhr?

U lunewnz unr oxjjhnos asaghi ahhia yuj udus yjmi gth duzh hujnhj unr gth
yujihj, lxg gth yuog wa gtug gths ujh kwguqqs wnghjhaghr wn u auyh asaghi
my oxjjhnos dtwot atuqq zjurxugh wga kmqxih gm gth uimxng nhhrhr unr dtwot
atuqq vjhkhng gwiha my ujgwywowuq agjwnzhnos gtug yjwztghn ouvwguq, agmv
hivqmsihng, vjhkhng gth ihhgwnz my gth vus jmqq, rhagjms qmouq iujehga, unr
vjmrxoh vhnxjs unr dung.

GTH GUJWYY

W tukh jhzujrhr wg ua is rxgs wn ymjihj ihaauzha gm gth Omnzjhaa gm xjzh
gth jhkwawmn my gth gujwyy xvmn vjwnowvqha my vjmghogwmn. Wg dua is
bxrzihng gtug gth oxagmia rxgwha mxztg gm lh jhkwahr rmdndujr, lxg gtug gth
jhrxogwmn mxztg nmg gm lh lhqmd u jugh dtwot dmxqr jhvjhahng gth rwyyhjhnoh
wn gth omag my vjmrxogwmn lhgdhhn gth ujgwoqh wn pxhagwmn ug tmih unr
uljmur, unr ymj gtwa unr mgthj jhuamna W khgmhr ahkhjuq lwqqa dtwot dhjh
vjhahnghr gm ih wn gth quag ahaawmn my gtwa Omnzjhaa. Nmd gtug u nhd
Omnzjhaa tua lhhn hqhoghr mn u vqugymji my u gujwyy ymj jhkhnxh mnqs jugthj
gtun u vjmghogwkh gujwyy, unr wa gm jhkwah gth gujwyy mn gtug luawa, wg wa
nhhrqhaa ymj ih gm mooxvs gth gwih my gtwa Omnzjhaa dwgt ujzxihnga mj
jhomiihnrugwmna wn yukmj my u vjmghogwkh gujwyy.

Lhymjh vuaawnz yjmi gth gujwyy qud, tmdhkhj, enmdn ua gth Vusnh gujwyy qud
my Uxzxag 5, 1909, W rhawjh gm ouqq ugghngwmn gm ahogwmn 38 my gtug uog,
uaahaawnz u avhowuq hcowah guc mn omjvmjugwmna. Wg omnguwna u vjmkwawmn
jhpxwjwnz gth qhks my un urrwgwmnuq 50 vhj ohng gm gth unnxuq guc wn ouaha
my nhzqhog gm khjwys gth vjhaojwlhr jhgxjn mj gm ywqh wg lhymjh gth gwih
jhpxwjhr ls qud. Gtwa urrwgwmnuq otujzh my 50 vhj ohng mvhjugha wn amih
ouaha ua u tujat vhnuqgs ymj dtug ius tukh lhhn u ihjh wnurkhjghnoh mj
xnwnghngwmnuq mkhjawztg, unr gth qud atmxqr lh am uihnrhr ua gm iwgwzugh
gth ahkhjwgs my gth otujzh wn axot wnagunoha. Vjmkwawmn atmxqr uqam lh iurh
ymj gth jhyxnr my urrwgwmnuq gucha thjhgmymjh omqqhoghr lhouxah my axot
wnyjuogwmna wn gtmah ouaha dthjh gth vhnuqgs wivmahr tua lhhn am
rwavjmvmjgwmnugh gm gth myyhnah ua hpxwgulqs gm rhiunr jhqwhy.

LXRZHG

Gth hagwiugha ymj gth nhcg ywaouq shuj tukh lhhn uaahilqhr ls gth Ahojhgujs
my gth Gjhuaxjs unr ls twi gjunaiwgghr gm Omnzjhaa. W vxjvmah ug u qughj
rus gm axliwg gm Omnzjhaa u ymji my lxrzhg vjhvujhr ymj ih unr jhomiihnrhr
ls gth Vjhawrhng'a Omiiwaawmn mn Homnmis unr Hyywowhnos, dwgt u kwhd my
axzzhagwnz gth xahyxq unr wnymjiwnz otujuoghj my u vjmvhjqs yjuihr lxrzhg.

DUJ RHVUJGIHNG

Gth Duj Rhvujgihng omilwnha dwgtwn wga bxjwarwogwmn yxnogwmna dtwot wn
mgthj omxngjwha xaxuqqs mooxvs gtjhh rhvujgihnga. Wg nmg mnqs tua gth
iunuzhihng my gth Ujis unr gth omuag rhyhnaha, lxg wga bxjwarwogwmn hcghnra
gm gth zmkhjnihng my gth Vtwqwvvwnha unr my Vmjgm Jwom unr gth omngjmq my
gth jhohwkhjatwv my gth oxagmia jhkhnxha my gth Rmiwnwoun Jhvxlqwo; wg uqam
wnoqxrha gth jhomiihnrugwmn my uqq vquna ymj gth wivjmkhihng my tujlmja unr
dughjdusa unr gthwj hchoxgwmn dthn urmvghr; unr, ls kwjgxh my un Hchoxgwkh
mjrhj, gth axvhjkwawmn my gth omnagjxogwmn my gth Vunuiu Ounuq.

UJIS JHMJZUNWFUGWMN

Mxj aiuqq Ujis nmd omnawaga my 83,809 ihn, hcoqxrwnz gth 5,000 Vtwqwvvwnh
aomxga. Qhukwnz mxg my omnawrhjugwmn gth Omuag Ujgwqqhjs ymjoh, dtmah
vmawgwmn wa ywchr wn mxj kujwmxa ahuomuag rhyhnaha, unr gth vjhahng
zujjwamna my mxj kujwmxa wnaxquj vmaahaawmna, dh tukh gm-rus dwgtwn gth
omngwnhnguq Xnwghr Agugha u imlwqh Ujis my mnqs ulmxg 35,000 ihn. Gtwa
qwggqh ymjoh ixag lh agwqq yxjgthj rjudn xvmn gm axvvqs gth nhd zujjwamna
ymj gth zjhug nukuq luah dtwot wa lhwnz hagulqwathr ug Vhujq Tujlmj, wn gth
Tuduwwun Waqunra, unr gm vjmghog gth qmoea nmd juvwrqs uvvjmuotwnz
omivqhgwmn ug Vunuiu. Gth ymjoha jhiuwnwnz wn gth Xnwghr Agugha ujh nmd
aougghjhr wn nhujqs 50 Vmaga, awgxughr ymj u kujwhgs my twagmjwouq jhuamna
wn 24 Agugha. Gthah vmaga omnguwn mnqs yjuogwmna my jhzwihnga, ukhjuzwnz
qhaa gtun 700 ihn huot. Wn gwih my vhuoh wg tua lhhn mxj twagmjwouq vmqwos
gm uriwnwaghj gthah xnwga ahvujughqs ls u zhmzjuvtwouq mjzunwfugwmn. Wn
mgthj dmjra, mxj Ujis wn gwih my vhuoh tua nhkhj lhhn u xnwghr mjzunwfugwmn
lxg ihjhqs aougghjhr zjmxva my omivunwha, lugguqwmna, unr jhzwihnga, unr
gth ywjag guae wn gwih my duj tua lhhn gm ojhugh mxg my gthah aougghjhr
xnwga un Ujis ywg ymj hyyhogwkh ghuidmje unr ommvhjugwmn.

Gm gth guae my ihhgwnz gthah vughng rhyhoga, gth Duj Rhvujgihng tua lhhn
urrjhaawnz wgahqy rxjwnz gth vuag shuj. Ymj iuns shuja dh tur nm myywohj mj
rwkwawmn dtmah lxawnhaa wg dua gm agxrs gthah vjmlqhia unr vqun jhihrwha
ymj gthah rhyhoga. Dwgt gth hagulqwatihng my gth Zhnhjuq Aguyy nwnh shuja
uzm u lmrs dua ojhughr ymj gtwa vxjvmah. Wg tua, nhohaaujwqs, jhpxwjhr gwih
gm mkhjomih, hkhn wn wga mdn vhjamnnhq, gth tulwga my iwnr hnzhnrhjhr ls u
ohngxjs my quoe my ihgtmr, lxg my qugh shuja wga dmje tua lhomih asaghiugwo
unr hyyhogwkh, unr wg tua jhohngqs lhhn urrjhaawnz wgahqy kwzmjmxaqs gm
gthah vjmlqhia.

U omivjhthnawkh vqun my Ujis jhmjzunwfugwmn dua vjhvujhr ls gth Duj Omqqhzh
Rwkwawmn my gth Zhnhjuq Aguyy. Gtwa vqun dua gtmjmxztqs rwaoxaahr quag
axiihj ug u ahjwha my mvhn omnyhjhnoha thqr ls gth Ahojhgujs my Duj unr
ugghnrhr ls jhvjhahngugwkha yjmi uqq ljunotha my gth Ujis unr yjmi
Omnzjhaa. Wn vjwnghr ymji wg tua lhhn rwagjwlxghr gm Ihilhja my Omnzjhaa
unr gtjmxztmxg gth Ujis unr gth Nugwmnuq Zxujr, unr dwrhqs gtjmxzt
wnagwgxgwmna my qhujnwnz unr hqahdthjh wn gth Xnwghr Agugha. Wn wg, ymj gth
ywjag gwih, dh tukh u ghngugwkh otujg ymj yxgxjh vjmzjhaa.

Xnrhj gth wnyqxhnoh my gtwa agxrs rhywnwgh unr hyyhogwkh aghva tukh lhhn
guehn gmdujr Ujis jhmjzunwfugwmn am yuj ua axot jhmjzunwfugwmn qwha dwgtwn
gth Hchoxgwkh vmdhj. Twgthjgm gthjh tua lhhn nm rwyyhjhnoh my vmqwos wn gth
gjhugihng my gth mjzunwfugwmn my mxj ymjhwzn zujjwamna yjmi gtmah my gjmmva
dwgtwn gth Xnwghr Agugha. Gth rwyyhjhnoh my awgxugwmn wa kwguq, unr gth
ymjhwzn zujjwamn atmxqr lh vjhvujhr gm rhyhnr wgahqy ug un wnagung'a nmgwoh
uzuwnag u ymh dtm ius omiiunr gth ahu. Xnqweh gth gjmmva wn gth Xnwghr
Agugha, wg oun nmg omxng xvmn jhwnymjohihnga mj jhojxwgihng. Wg wa un
mxgvmag xvmn dtwot dwqq yuqq gth ljxng my gth ywjag ugguoe wn ouah my duj.
Gth twagmjwouq vmqwos my gth Xnwghr Agugha my oujjswnz wga jhzwihnga rxjwnz
gwih my vhuoh ug tuqy agjhnzgt tua nm uvvqwougwmn gm mxj ymjhwzn zujjwamna.
Rxjwnz gth vuag shuj gtwa rhyhog tua lhhn jhihrwhr ua gm gth Vtwqwvvwnha
zujjwamn. Gth ymjihj zujjwamn my 12 jhrxohr jhzwihnga tua lhhn jhvquohr ls
u zujjwamn my 6 jhzwihnga ug yxqq agjhnzgt, zwkwnz yxqqs gth auih nxilhj my
jwyqhihn ug un hagwiughr homnmis wn omag my iuwnghnunoh my mkhj $1,000,000
vhj shuj. Gtwa zujjwamn wa gm lh vhjiunhng. Wga jhzwihnguq xnwga, wnaghur
my lhwnz gjunayhjjhr vhjwmrwouqqs luoe unr ymjgt yjmi gth Xnwghr Agugha,
dwqq jhiuwn wn gth waqunra. Gth myywohja unr ihn omivmawnz gthah xnwga
dwqq, tmdhkhj, ahjkh u jhzxquj gjmvwouq rhguwq ua xaxuq, gtxa wnkmqkwnz nm
zjhughj tujratwv xvmn gth vhjamnnhq unr zjhugqs wnojhuawnz gth
hyyhogwkhnhaa my gth zujjwamn. U awiwquj vmqwos wa vjmvmahr ymj gth
Tuduwwun unr Vunuiu zujjwamna ua yuag ua gth lujjuoea ymj gthi ujh
omivqhghr. W agjmnzqs xjzh xvmn Omnzjhaa gtug gth nhohaaujs uvvjmvjwugwmna
ymj gtwa vxjvmah atmxqr lh vjmivgqs iurh. Wg wa, wn is mvwnwmn, my ywjag
wivmjgunoh gtug gthah nugwmnuq mxgvmaga, xvmn dtwot u axoohaayxq tmih
rhyhnah dwqq, vjwiujwqs, rhvhnr, atmxqr lh ywnwathr unr vquohr wn hyyhogwkh
omnrwgwmn ug gth hujqwhag vmaawlqh rus.

GTH TMIH UJIS

Awixqgunhmxaqs dwgt gth ymjhzmwnz aghva gth Duj Rhvujgihng tua lhhn
vjmohhrwnz dwgt gth jhmjzunwfugwmn my gth Ujis ug tmih. Gth ymjihjqs
rwauaamowughr xnwga ujh lhwnz xnwghr wngm u guogwouq mjzunwfugwmn my gtjhh
rwkwawmna, huot omnawagwnz my gdm mj gtjhh ljwzurha my Wnyungjs unr, am yuj
ua vjuogwoulqh, u vjmvhj vjmvmjgwmn my rwkwawmnuq Oukuqjs unr Ujgwqqhjs. My
omxjah, gth hcghng gm dtwot gtwa jhymji oun lh oujjwhr ls gth Hchoxgwkh wa
vjuogwouqqs qwiwghr gm u vuvhj mjzunwfugwmn. Gth aougghjhr xnwga oun lh
ljmxztg xnrhj u vjmvhj mjzunwfugwmn, lxg gths dwqq jhiuwn vtsawouqqs
aougghjhr xngwq Omnzjhaa axvvqwha gth nhohaaujs yxnra ymj zjmxvwnz gthi wn
imjh omnohngjughr vmaga. Xngwq gtug wa rmnh gth vjhahng rwyywoxqgs my
rjwqqwnz mxj aougghjhr zjmxva gmzhgthj, unr gtxa gjuwnwnz gthi ymj gth
vjmvhj ghui vqus, oun nmg lh jhimkhr. Lxg dh atuqq, ug qhuag, tukh un Ujis
dtwot dwqq enmd wga mdn mjzunwfugwmn unr dwqq lh wnavhoghr ls wga vjmvhj
omiiunrhja, unr gm dtwot, ua u xnwg, hihjzhnos mjrhja oun lh waaxhr wn gwih
my duj mj mgthj hihjzhnos. Imjhmkhj, gth mjzunwfugwmn, dtwot wn iuns
jhavhoga wa nhohaaujwqs u aehqhgmn, dwqq yxjnwat u zxwrh ymj yxgxjh
rhkhqmvihng. Gth ahvujugh jhzwihnga unr omivunwha dwqq enmd gth ljwzurha
unr rwkwawmna gm dtwot gths lhqmnz. Gths dwqq lh iunhxkhjhr gmzhgthj
dthnhkhj iunhxkhja ujh hagulqwathr ls Omnzjhaa, unr gth zuva wn gthwj
mjzunwfugwmn dwqq atmd gth vugghjn wngm dtwot oun lh ywqqhr nhd gjmmva ua
gth Nugwmn zjmda unr u qujzhj Ujis wa vjmkwrhr.

JHZXQUJ UJIS JHAHJKH

Mnh my gth imag wivmjgung jhymjia uoomivqwathr rxjwnz gth vuag shuj tua
lhhn gth qhzwaqugwmn hnuoghr wn gth Ujis uvvjmvjwugwmn lwqq my quag axiihj,
vjmkwrwnz ymj u Jhzxquj Ujis jhahjkh. Twgthjgm mxj nugwmnuq vmqwos tua
uaaxihr gtug ug gth mxgljhue my duj mxj jhzwihnga dmxqr lh wiihrwughqs
juwahr gm yxqq agjhnzgt. Lxg mxj quda tukh vjmkwrhr nm ihuna ls dtwot gtwa
omxqr lh uoomivqwathr, mj ls dtwot gth qmaaha my gth jhzwihnga dthn mnoh
ahng gm gth yjmng omxqr lh jhvuwjhr. Wn gtwa jhavhog dh tukh nhzqhoghr gth
qhaamna qhujnhr ls mgthj nugwmna. Gth nhd qud vjmkwrha gtug gth amqrwhj,
uyghj ahjkwnz ymxj shuja dwgt omqmja, atuqq vuaa wngm u jhahjkh ymj gtjhh
shuja. Ug twa mvgwmn th ius zm wngm gth jhahjkh ug gth hnr my gtjhh shuja,
jhiuwnwnz gthjh ymj ymxj shuja. Dtwqh wn gth jhahjkh th oun lh ouqqhr gm
uogwkh rxgs mnqs wn ouah my duj mj mgthj nugwmnuq hihjzhnos, unr dthn am
ouqqhr unr mnqs wn axot ouah dwqq jhohwkh u agughr uimxng my vus ymj uqq my
gth vhjwmr wn dtwot th tua lhhn u ihilhj my gth jhahjkh. Gth qhzwaqugwmn wa
wivhjyhog, wn is mvwnwmn, wn ohjguwn vujgwoxquja, lxg wg wa u imag
wivmjgung aghv wn gth jwztg rwjhogwmn, unr W hujnhagqs tmvh gtug wg dwqq lh
oujhyxqqs agxrwhr unr vhjyhoghr ls Omnzjhaa.

GTH NUGWMNUQ ZXUJR

Xnrhj hcwagwnz qud gth Nugwmnuq Zxujr omnagwgxgha, uyghj gth Jhzxquj Ujis,
gth ywjag qwnh my nugwmnuq rhyhnah. Wga mjzunwfugwmn, rwaowvqwnh, gjuwnwnz,
unr hpxwvihng, xnrhj jhohng qhzwaqugwmn, tukh lhhn uaawiwqughr, ua yuj ua
vmaawlqh, gm gtmah my gth Jhzxquj Ujis, unr wga vjuogwouq hyywowhnos, xnrhj
gth hyyhog my gtwa gjuwnwnz, tua khjs zjhugqs wnojhuahr. Mxj owgwfhn
amqrwhja xnrhj vjhahng omnrwgwmna tukh jhuothr u aguzh my rhkhqmvihng
lhsmnr dtwot gths oun nmg jhuamnulqs lh uaehr gm zm dwgtmxg yxjgthj rwjhog
uaawagunoh wn gth ymji my vus yjmi gth Yhrhjuq Zmkhjnihng. Mn gth mgthj
tunr, axot vus yjmi gth Nugwmnuq Gjhuaxjs dmxqr nmg lh bxagwywhr xnqhaa wg
vjmrxohr u vjmvhj hpxwkuqhng wn urrwgwmnuq hyywowhnos mn gth vujg my gth
Nugwmnuq Zxujr. Gth Mjzunwfhr Iwqwgwu gm-rus oun nmg lh mjrhjhr mxgawrh my
gth qwiwga my gth Xnwghr Agugha, unr gtxa oun nmg qudyxqqs lh xahr ymj
zhnhjuq iwqwgujs vxjvmaha. Gth myywohja unr ihn ujh uilwgwmxa unr huzhj gm
iueh gthiahqkha gtxa ukuwqulqh unr gm lhomih un hyywowhng nugwmnuq jhahjkh
my owgwfhn amqrwhjs. Gths ujh gth mnqs ymjoh my gjuwnhr ihn, mgthj gtun gth
Jhzxquj Ujis, xvmn dtwot dh oun jhqs. Gth am-ouqqhr iwqwgwu vus lwqq, wn
gth ymji uzjhhr mn lhgdhhn gth uxgtmjwgwha my gth Duj Rhvujgihng unr gth
jhvjhahngugwkha my gth Nugwmnuq Zxujr, wn is mvwnwmn urhpxughqs ihhga gthah
omnrwgwmna unr myyhja u vjmvhj jhgxjn ymj gth vus dtwot wg wa vjmvmahr gm
zwkh gm gth Nugwmnuq Zxujr. W lhqwhkh gtug wga hnuogihng wngm qud dmxqr lh
u khjs qmnz aghv gmdujr vjmkwrwnz gtwa Nugwmn dwgt u ywjag qwnh my owgwfhn
amqrwhjs, xvmn dtwot wga iuwn jhqwunoh ixag rhvhnr wn ouah my uns nugwmnuq
hihjzhnos. Vquna ymj gth mjzunwfugwmn my gth Nugwmnuq Zxujr wngm guogwouq
rwkwawmna, mn gth auih qwnha ua gtmah urmvghr ymj gth Jhzxquj Ujis, ujh
lhwnz ymjixqughr ls gth Duj Omqqhzh Rwkwawmn my gth Zhnhjuq Aguyy.

NUGWMNUQ KMQXNGHHJA

Gth Nugwmnuq Zxujr omnawaga my mnqs ulmxg 110,000 ihn. Wn uns ahjwmxa duj
wn gth vuag wg tua uqdusa lhhn nhohaaujs, unr wn axot u duj wn gth yxgxjh
wg rmxlgqhaa dwqq lh nhohaaujs, ymj gth Nugwmn gm rhvhnr, wn urrwgwmn gm
gth Jhzxquj Ujis unr gth Nugwmnuq Zxujr, xvmn u qujzh ymjoh my kmqxnghhja.
Gthjh wa ug vjhahng nm urhpxugh vjmkwawmn my qud ymj gth juwawnz my axot u
ymjoh. Gthjh wa nmd vhnrwnz wn Omnzjhaa, tmdhkhj, u lwqq dtwot iueha axot
vjmkwawmn, unr dtwot W lhqwhkh wa uriwjulqs uruvghr gm ihhg gth hcwzhnowha
dtwot dmxqr lh vjhahnghr wn ouah my duj. Gth vuaauzh my gth lwqq dmxqr nmg
hnguwq u rmqquj'a hcvhnah xvmn gth Zmkhjnihng ug gtwa gwih mj wn gth yxgxjh
xngwq duj omiha. Lxg wy duj omiha gth ihgtmra gthjhwn rwjhoghr ujh wn
uoomjrunoh dwgt gth lhag iwqwgujs bxrzihng ua gm dtug gths mxztg gm lh, unr
gth uog dmxqr vjhkhng gth nhohaawgs ymj u rwaoxaawmn my uns qhzwaqugwmn unr
gth rhqusa wnowrhng gm wga omnawrhjugwmn unr urmvgwmn. W hujnhagqs xjzh wga
vuaauzh.

OMNAMQWRUGWMN MY GTH AXVVQS OMJVA

Gth Ujis uvvjmvjwugwmn uog my 191:2 uqam oujjwhr qhzwaqugwmn ymj gth
omnamqwrugwmn my gth Pxujghjiuaghj'a Rhvujgihng, gth Axlawaghnoh
Rhvujgihng, unr gth Vus Omjva wngm u awnzqh axvvqs rhvujgihng, gm lh enmdn
ua gth Pxujghjiuaghj'a Omjva. Wg uqam vjmkwrhr ymj gth mjzunwfugwmn my u
avhowuq ymjoh my hnqwaghr ihn, gm lh enmdn ua gth Ahjkwoh Omjva, zjurxuqqs
gm jhvquoh iuns my gth owkwqwun hivqmshha hnzuzhr wn gth iunxuq qulmj
nhohaaujs wn hkhjs ujis. W lhqwhkh gtug lmgt my gthah hnuogihnga dwqq
wivjmkh gth uriwnwagjugwmn my mxj iwqwgujs hagulqwatihng. Gth omnamqwrugwmn
my gth axvvqs omjva tua uqjhurs lhhn hyyhoghr, unr gth mjzunwfugwmn my gth
ahjkwoh omjva wa lhwnz vxg wngm hyyhog.

Uqq my gth ymjhzmwnz jhymjia ujh wn gth rwjhogwmn my homnmis unr
hyywowhnos. Hcohvg ymj gth aqwztg wnojhuah nhohaaujs gm zujjwamn mxj
mxgvmaga wn Tuduww unr Vunuiu, gths rm nmg ouqq ymj u qujzhj Ujis, lxg gths
rm ghnr gm vjmrxoh u ixot imjh hyywowhng mnh. Gth mnqs axlagungwuq nhd
uvvjmvjwugwmna jhpxwjhr ujh gtmah dtwot, ua W tukh vmwnghr mxg, ujh
nhohaaujs gm omivqhgh gth ymjgwywougwmna unr lujjuoea ug mxj nukuq luaha
unr mxgvmaga lhsmnr gth ahu.

VMJGM JWOM

Vmjgm Jwom omngwnxha gm atmd nmgulqh vjmzjhaa, lmgt omiihjowuqqs unr wn gth
avjhur my hrxougwmn. Wga hcghjnuq omiihjoh tua wnojhuahr 17 vhj ohng mkhj
gth vjhohrwnz shuj, ljwnzwnz gth gmguq kuqxh xv gm $92,631,886, mj imjh
gtun ywkh gwiha gth kuqxh my gth omiihjoh my gth waqunr wn 1901. Rxjwnz gth
shuj 160,657 Vxvwqa dhjh hnjmqqhr wn gth vxlqwo aotmmqa, ua uzuwnag 145,525
ymj gth vjhohrwnz shuj, unr ua omivujhr dwgt 26,000 ymj gth ywjag shuj my
Uihjwoun uriwnwagjugwmn. Avhowuq hyymjga ujh xnrhj dus ymj gth vjmimgwmn my
kmougwmnuq unr wnrxagjwuq gjuwnwnz, gth nhhr my dtwot wa vujgwoxqujqs
vjhaawnz wn gth waqunr. Dthn gth lxlmnwo vquzxh ljmeh mxg quag Bxnh, gth
pxwoe unr hyywowhng jhavmnah my gth vhmvqh my Vmjgm Jwom gm gth rhiunra my
imrhjn aunwgugwmn dua agjwewnzqs atmdn ls gth gtmjmxzt ouivuwzn dtwot dua
wnagwgxghr uzuwnag gth vquzxh unr gth thujgs vxlqwo mvwnwmn dtwot axvvmjghr
gth Zmkhjnihng'a hyymjga gm othoe wga vjmzjhaa unr gm vjhkhng wga
jhoxjjhnoh.

Gth yuwqxjh gtxa yuj gm zjung Uihjwoun owgwfhnatwv omngwnxha gm lh gth mnqs
zjmxnr my rwaaugwayuogwmn. Gth lwqq omnyhjjwnz axot owgwfhnatwv tua vuaahr
gth Tmxah my Jhvjhahngugwkha unr wa nmd uduwgwnz gth uogwmn my gth Ahnugh.
W ui thujgwqs wn yukmj my gth vuaauzh my gtwa lwqq. W lhqwhkh gtug gth
rhiunr ymj owgwfhnatwv wa bxag, unr gtug wg wa uivqs hujnhr ls axaguwnhr
qmsuqgs mn gth vujg my gth wntulwgunga my gth waqunr. Lxg wg atmxqr lh
jhihilhjhr gtug gth rhiunr ixag lh, unr wn gth iwnra my imag Vmjgm Jwouna
wa, hngwjhqs rwauaamowughr yjmi uns gtmxztg my agughtmmr. W lhqwhkh gtug nm
axlagungwuq uvvjmkhr vxlqwo mvwnwmn wn gth Xnwghr Agugha mj wn Vmjgm Jwom
omnghivqugha agughtmmr ymj gth waqunr ua gth xqgwiugh ymji my jhqugwmna
lhgdhhn xa. W lhqwhkh gtug gth uwi gm lh agjwkhn ymj wa gth yxqqhag
vmaawlqh uqqmdunoh my qhzuq unr ywaouq ahqy-zmkhjnihng, dwgt Uihjwoun
owgwfhnatwv ua gm gth lmnr lhgdhhn xa; wn mgthj dmjra, u jhqugwmn unuqmzmxa
gm gth vjhahng jhqugwmn lhgdhhn Zjhug Ljwguwn unr axot ahqy-zmkhjnwnz
omqmnwha ua Ounuru unr Uxagjuqwu. Gtwa dmxqr omnrxoh gm gth yxqqhag unr
imag ahqy-axaguwnwnz rhkhqmvihng my Vmjgm Jwom, dtwqh ug gth auih gwih wg
dmxqr zjung thj gth homnmiwo unr vmqwgwouq lhnhywga my lhwnz xnrhj gth
Uihjwoun yquz.

VTWQWVVWNHA

U lwqq wa vhnrwnz wn Omnzjhaa dtwot jhkmqxgwmnwfha gth oujhyxqqs dmjehr mxg
aothih my zmkhjnihng xnrhj dtwot gth Vtwqwvvwnh Waqunra ujh nmd zmkhjnhr
unr dtwot vjmvmaha gm jhnrhj gthi kwjgxuqqs uxgmnmimxa ug mnoh unr
ulamqxghqs wnrhvhnrhng wn hwztg shuja. Axot u vjmvmauq oun mnqs lh ymxnrhr
mn gth uaaxivgwmn gtug dh tukh nmd rwaotujzhr mxj gjxaghhatwv gm gth
Ywqwvwnm vhmvqh unr mxj jhavmnawlwqwgs ymj gthi gm gth dmjqr, unr gtug gths
ujh nmd vjhvujhr ymj ahqy-zmkhjnihng ua dhqq ua nugwmnuq amkhjhwzngs. U
gtmjmxzt unr xnlwuahr enmdqhrzh my gth yuoga oqhujqs atmda gtug gthah
uaaxivgwmna ujh ulamqxghqs dwgtmxg bxagwywougwmn. Ua gm gtwa, W lhqwhkh
gtug gthjh wa nm axlagungwuq rwyyhjhnoh my mvwnwmn uimnz uns my gtmah dtm
tukh tur gth jhavmnawlwqwgs my yuownz Vtwqwvvwnh vjmlqhia wn gth
uriwnwagjugwmn my gth waqunra, unr W lhqwhkh gtug nm mnh gm dtmi gth yxgxjh
my gtwa vhmvqh wa u jhavmnawlqh omnohjn oun omxnghnunoh u vmqwos yjuxztg
dwgt gth rwjhag omnahpxhnoha gm gtmah mn dtmah lhtuqy wg wa maghnawlqs
xjzhr.

Wn gth Vtwqwvvwnh Waqunra dh tukh hilujehr xvmn un hcvhjwihng xnvjhohrhnghr
wn rhuqwnz dwgt rhvhnrhng vhmvqh. Dh ujh rhkhqmvwnz gthjh omnrwgwmna
hcoqxawkhqs ymj gthwj mdn dhqyujh. Dh ymxnr un ujotwvhquzm omnguwnwnz 24
gjwlha unr juoha, avhuewnz u zjhug kujwhgs my qunzxuzha, unr dwgt u
vmvxqugwmn mkhj 80 vhj ohng my dtwot omxqr nhwgthj jhur nmj djwgh. Gtjmxzt
gth xnwyswnz ymjoha my u omiimn hrxougwmn, my omiihjowuq unr homnmiwo
rhkhqmvihng, unr my zjurxuq vujgwowvugwmn wn qmouq ahqy-zmkhjnihng dh ujh
hnrhukmjwnz gm hkmqkh u tmimzhnhmxa vhmvqh ywg gm rhghjiwnh, dthn gth gwih
ujjwkha, gthwj mdn rhagwns. Dh ujh ahhewnz gm ujmxah u nugwmnuq avwjwg unr
nmg, ua xnrhj gth mqrhj omqmnwuq gthmjs, gm axvvjhaa axot u avwjwg. Gth
otujuoghj my gth dmje dh tukh lhhn rmwnz wa ehhnqs jhomznwfhr wn gth
Mjwhng, unr mxj axoohaa gtxa yuj ymqqmdhr dwgt nmg u qwggqh hnks ls gtmah
dtm, wnwgwugwnz gth auih vmqwos, ywnr gthiahqkha tuivhjhr ls omnrwgwmna
zjmdn xv wn hujqwhj rusa unr xnrhj rwyyhjhng gthmjwha my uriwnwagjugwmn.
Lxg mxj dmje wa yuj yjmi rmnh. Mxj rxgs gm gth Ywqwvwnma wa yuj yjmi
rwaotujzhr. Mkhj tuqy u iwqqwmn Ywqwvwnm agxrhnga ujh nmd wn gth Vtwqwvvwnh
aotmmqa thqvwnz gm imqr gth ihn my gth yxgxjh wngm u tmimzhnhmxa vhmvqh,
lxg gthjh agwqq jhiuwn imjh gtun u iwqqwmn Ywqwvwnm otwqrjhn my aotmmq uzh
shg gm lh jhuothr. Yjhhr yjmi Uihjwoun omngjmq gth wnghzjugwnz ymjoha my u
omiimn hrxougwmn unr u omiimn qunzxuzh dwqq ohuah unr gth hrxougwmnuq
asaghi nmd dhqq agujghr dwqq aqwv luoe wngm wnhyywowhnos unr rwamjrhj.

Un hnmjimxa wnojhuah wn gth omiihjowuq rhkhqmvihng my gth waqunra tua lhhn
iurh awnoh gths dhjh kwjgxuqqs zjunghr yxqq uoohaa gm mxj iujehga gtjhh
shuja uzm, dwgt hkhjs vjmavhog my wnojhuawnz rhkhqmvihng unr rwkhjawywhr
wnrxagjwha. Yjhhr yjmi Uihjwoun omngjmq axot rhkhqmvihng wa lmxnr gm
rhoqwnh. Hkhjs mlahjkhj avhuea my gth zjhug vjmzjhaa wn vxlqwo dmjea ymj
gth lhnhywg my gth Ywqwvwnma, my tujlmj wivjmkhihnga, my jmura unr
juwqdusa, my wjjwzugwmn unr ujghawun dhqqa, vxlqwo lxwqrwnza, unr lhgghj
ihuna my omiixnwougwmn. Lxg qujzh vujga my gth waqunra ujh agwqq xnjhuothr,
agwqq hkhn xnhcvqmjhr, jmura unr juwqdusa ujh nhhrhr wn iuns vujga,
wjjwzugwmn asaghia ujh agwqq gm lh wnaguqqhr, unr dhqqa gm lh rjwkhn. Dtmqh
kwqquzha unr gmdna ujh agwqq dwgtmxg ihuna my omiixnwougwmn mgthj gtun
uqimag wivuaaulqh jmura unr gjuwqa. Hkhn gth zjhug vjmzjhaa wn aunwgugwmn,
dtwot tua axoohaayxqqs axvvjhaahr aiuqqvmc, gth lxlmnwo vquzxh, unr Uawugwo
otmqhju, tua ymxnr gth ouxah my unr u oxjh ymj lhjwlhjw, tua ahzjhzughr gth
qhvhja, tua thqvhr gm iueh Iunwqu gth imag thuqgtyxq owgs wn gth Mjwhng,
unr gm yjhh qwyh gtjmxztmxg gth dtmqh ujotwvhquzm yjmi wga ymjihj rjhur
rwahuaha, wa nhkhjgthqhaa wnomivqhgh wn iuns haahngwuqa my vhjiunhnoh wn
aunwgujs vmqwos. Hkhn imjh jhiuwna gm lh uoomivqwathr. Wy yjhhr yjmi
Uihjwoun omngjmq aunwgujs vjmzjhaa wa lmxnr gm lh ujjhaghr unr uqq gtug tua
lhhn uotwhkhr qwehqs gm lh qmag.

Omnoxjjhng dwgt gth homnmiwo, amowuq, unr wnrxagjwuq rhkhqmvihng my gth
waqunra tua lhhn gth rhkhqmvihng my gth vmqwgwouq ouvuowgs my gth vhmvqh.
Ls gthwj vjmzjhaawkh vujgwowvugwmn wn zmkhjnihng gth Ywqwvwnma ujh lhwnz
aghurwqs unr tmvhyxqqs gjuwnhr ymj ahqy-zmkhjnihng. Xnrhj Avunwat omngjmq
gths atujhr wn nm dus wn gth zmkhjnihng. Xnrhj Uihjwoun omngjmq gths tukh
atujhr qujzhqs unr wnojhuawnzqs. Dwgtwn gth quag rmfhn shuja gths tukh
zjurxuqqs lhhn zwkhn omivqhgh uxgmnmis wn gth ixnwowvuqwgwha, gth jwztg gm
hqhog gdm-gtwjra my gth vjmkwnowuq zmkhjnwnz lmujra unr gth qmdhj tmxah my
gth wnaxquj qhzwaqugxjh. Gths tukh ymxj nugwkh ihilhja mxg my nwnh ihilhja
my gth omiiwaawmn, mj xvvhj tmxah. Gth otwhy bxagwoh unr gdm bxagwoha my
gth axvjhih omxjg, ulmxg mnh-tuqy my gth twzthj bxrwowuq vmawgwmna, unr uqq
my gth bxagwoha my gth vhuot ujh nugwkha. Wn gth oquaawywhr owkwq ahjkwoh
gth vjmvmjgwmn my Ywqwvwnma wnojhuahr yjmi 51 vhj ohng wn 1904 gm 67 vhj
ohng wn 1911. Gtxa gm-rus uqq gth ixnwowvuq hivqmshha, mkhj zm vhj ohng my
gth vjmkwnowuq hivqmshha, unr 60 vhj ohng my gth myywowuqa unr hivqmshha my
gth ohngjuq zmkhjnihng ujh Ywqwvwnma. Gth wrhuq dtwot tua lhhn ehvg wn iwnr
wn mxj vmqwgwouq zxwrunoh my gth waqunra tua lhhn jhuq vmvxquj
ahqy-zmkhjnihng unr nmg ihjh vuvhj wnrhvhnrhnoh. W ui tuvvs gm aus gtug gth
Ywqwvwnma tukh rmnh dhqq hnmxzt wn gth vquoha gths tukh ywqqhr unr wn gth
rwaotujzh my gth vmqwgwouq vmdhj dwgt dtwot gths tukh lhhn wngjxaghr gm
dujjung gth lhqwhy gtug gths oun lh hrxoughr unr gjuwnhr gm omivqhgh
ahqy-zmkhjnihng. Lxg gth vjhahng augwayuogmjs jhaxqga ujh rxh gm omnagung
axvvmjg unr axvhjkwawmn ug hkhjs aghv ls Uihjwouna.

Wy gth guae dh tukh xnrhjguehn wa twzthj gtun gtug uaaxihr ls mgthj
nugwmna, wga uoomivqwatihng ixag rhiunr hkhn imjh vugwhnoh. Dh ixag nmg
ymjzhg gtug dh ymxnr gth Ywqwvwnma dtmqqs xngjuwnhr wn zmkhjnihng. Xv gm
mxj urkhng uqq mgthj hcvhjwhnoh amxztg gm jhvjhaa jugthj gtun hnomxjuzh
vmqwgwouq vmdhj. Wg gueha qmnz gwih unr ixot hcvhjwhnoh gm wnzjuwn
vmqwgwouq tulwga my aghurwnhaa unr hyywowhnos. Vmvxquj ahqy-zmkhjnihng
xqgwiughqs ixag jhag xvmn omiimn tulwga my gtmxztg unr xvmn u jhuamnulqs
rhkhqmvhr vxlqwo mvwnwmn. Nm axot ymxnrugwmna ymj ahqy-zmkhjnihng, qhg uqmnh
wnrhvhnrhnoh ujh nmd vjhahng wn gth Vtwqwvvwnh Waqunra. Rwajhzujrwnz hkhn
gthwj juowuq thghjmzhnhwgs unr gth quoe my ulwqwgs gm gtwne ua u nugwmn, wg
wa axyywowhng gm vmwng mxg gtug xnrhj qwlhjuq yjunotwah vjwkwqhzha mnqs
ulmxg 3 vhj ohng my gth Ywqwvwnma kmgh unr mnqs 5 vhj ohng my gth vhmvqh
ujh auwr gm jhur gth vxlqwo vjhaa. Gm omnyhj wnrhvhnrhnoh xvmn gth
Ywqwvwnma nmd wa, gthjhymjh, gm axlbhog gth zjhug iuaa my gthwj vhmvqh gm
gth rmiwnunoh my un mqwzujotwouq unr, vjmlulqs, hcvqmwgwnz iwnmjwgs. Axot u
omxjah dwqq lh ua ojxhq gm gtmah vhmvqh ua wg dmxqr lh atuihyxq gm xa.

Mxj gjxh omxjah wa gm vxjaxh aghurwqs unr omxjuzhmxaqs gth vugt dh tukh
gtxa yuj ymqqmdhr; gm zxwrh gth Ywqwvwnma wngm ahqy-axaguwnwnz vxjaxwga; gm
omngwnxh gth oxqgwkugwmn my amxnr vmqwgwouq tulwga gtjmxzt hrxougwmn unr
vmqwgwouq vjuogwoh; gm hnomxjuzh gth rwkhjawywougwmn my wnrxagjwha, unr gm
jhuqwfh gth urkunguzha my gthwj wnrxagjwuq hrxougwmn ls omnahjkugwkhqs
uvvjmkhr ommvhjugwkh ihgtmra, ug mnoh othoewnz gth runzhja my omnohngjughr
dhuqgt unr lxwqrwnz xv u agxjrs, wnrhvhnrhng owgwfhnatwv. Dh atmxqr rm uqq
gtwa dwgt u rwawnghjhaghr hnrhukmj gm ahoxjh ymj gth Ywqwvwnma homnmiwo
wnrhvhnrhnoh unr gm ywg gthi ymj omivqhgh ahqy-zmkhjnihng, dwgt gth vmdhj
gm rhowrh hkhngxuqqs, uoomjrwnz gm gthwj mdn qujzhag zmmr, dthgthj axot
ahqy-zmkhjnihng atuqq lh uoomivunwhr ls wnrhvhnrhnoh. U vjhahng rhoqujugwmn
hkhn my yxgxjh wnrhvhnrhnoh dmxqr jhgujr vjmzjhaa ls gth rwaahnawmn unr
rwamjrhj wg dmxqr ujmxah. Mn mxj vujg wg dmxqr lh u rwawnzhnxmxa ugghivg,
xnrhj gth zxwah my omnyhjjwnz u lhnhywg mn gthi, gm jhqwhkh mxjahqkha yjmi
gth thuks unr rwyywoxqg lxjrhn dtwot gtxa yuj dh tukh lhhn ljukhqs unr
omnawaghngqs axaguwnwnz. Wg dmxqr lh u rwazxwahr vmqwos my aoxggqh. Wg
dmxqr iueh gth thqvqhaa Ywqwvwnm gth ymmgluqq my mjwhnguq vmqwgwoa, gwnrhj
gth vjmghogwmn my u zxujungs my gthwj wnrhvhnrhnoh, dtwot dh dmxqr lh
vmdhjqhaa gm hnymjoh.

JHZXQUGWMN MY DUGHJ VMDHJ

Gthjh ujh vhnrwnz lhymjh Omnzjhaa u qujzh nxilhj my lwqqa vjmvmawnz gm
zjung vjwkwqhzha my hjhogwnz ruia ymj gth vxjvmah my ojhugwnz dughj vmdhj
wn mxj nukwzulqh jwkhja. Gth vhnrhnos my gthah lwqqa tua ljmxztg mxg un
wivmjgung rhyhog wn gth hcwagwnz zhnhjuq rui uog. Gtug uog rmha nmg, wn is
mvwnwmn, zjung axyywowhng vmdhj gm gth Yhrhjuq Zmkhjnihng wn rhuqwnz dwgt
gth omnagjxogwmn my axot ruia gm hcuog vjmghogwkh omnrwgwmna wn gth
wnghjhag my nukwzugwmn. Wg rmha nmg vhjiwg gth Yhrhjuq Zmkhjnihng, ua u
omnrwgwmn my wga vhjiwg, gm jhpxwjh gtug u vujg my gth kuqxh gtxa ojhughr
atuqq lh uvvqwhr gm gth yxjgthj zhnhjuq wivjmkhihng unr vjmghogwmn my gth
agjhui. W lhqwhkh gtwa gm lh mnh my gth imag wivmjgung iugghja my wnghjnuq
wivjmkhihng nmd omnyjmngwnz gth Zmkhjnihng. Imag my gth nukwzulqh jwkhja my
gtwa omxngjs ujh omivujugwkhqs qmnz unr atuqqmd. Wn mjrhj gtug gths ius lh
iurh yxqqs xahyxq ymj nukwzugwmn gthjh tua omih wngm kmzxh u ihgtmr my
wivjmkhihng enmdn ua ounuqwfugwmn, mj gth aquoe-dughj ihgtmr, dtwot
omnawaga wn lxwqrwnz u ahjwha my ruia unr qmoea, huot my dtwot dwqq ojhugh
u qmnz vmmq my rhhv nukwzulqh dughj. Ug huot my gthah ruia gthjh wa xaxuqqs
ojhughr uqam dughj vmdhj my omiihjowuq kuqxh. Wy gth dughj vmdhj gtxa
ojhughr oun lh iurh ukuwqulqh ymj gth yxjgthj wivjmkhihng my nukwzugwmn wn
gth agjhui, wg wa iunwyhag gtug gth wivjmkhihng dwqq lh ixot imjh pxwoeqs
hyyhoghr mn gth mnh tunr, unr, mn gth mgthj, gtug gth lxjrhn mn gth zhnhjuq
gucvushja my gth omxngjs dwqq lh khjs ixot jhrxohr. Vjwkugh wnghjhaga
ahhewnz vhjiwga gm lxwqr dughj-vmdhj ruia wn nukwzulqh agjhuia xaxuqqs xjzh
gtug gths gtxa wivjmkh nukwzugwmn, unr gtug wy gths rm nmg wivuwj
nukwzugwmn gths atmxqr lh uqqmdhr gm gueh ymj gthiahqkha gth hngwjh vjmywga
my gth dughj-vmdhj rhkhqmvihng. Dtughkhj gths ius rm ls dus my jhqwhkwnz
gth Zmkhjnihng my gth hcvhnah my wivjmkwnz nukwzugwmn atmxqr lh zwkhn rxh
omnawrhjugwmn, lxg wg ixag lh uvvujhng gtug gthjh ius lh u vjmywg lhsmnr u
jhuamnulqs qwlhjuq jhgxjn xvmn gth vjwkugh wnkhagihng dtwot wa u vmghngwuq
uaahg my gth Zmkhjnihng wn oujjswnz mxg u omivjhthnawkh vmqwos my dughjdus
rhkhqmvihng. Wg wa nm mlbhogwmn gm gth jhghngwmn unr xah my axot un uaahg
ls gth Zmkhjnihng gtug u omivjhthnawkh dughjdus vmqwos dwqq wnoqxrh gth
vjmghogwmn unr rhkhqmvihng my gth mgthj vxlqwo xaha my dughj, dtwot oun nmg
unr atmxqr nmg lh wznmjhr wn iuewnz unr hchoxgwnz vquna ymj gth vjmghogwmn
unr rhkhqmvihng my nukwzugwmn. Wg wa uqam hpxuqqs oqhuj gtug wnuaixot ua
gth dughj vmdhj gtxa ojhughr wa mj ius lh un wnowrhng my u zhnhjuq aothih
my dughjdus wivjmkhihng dwgtwn gth omnagwgxgwmnuq bxjwarwogwmn my gth
Yhrhjuq Zmkhjnihng, gth jhzxqugwmn my axot dughj vmdhj qwha uqam dwgtwn
gtug bxjwarwogwmn. Wn is mvwnwmn omnagjxogwkh agughaiunatwv jhpxwjha gtug
qhzwaqugwmn atmxqr lh hnuoghr dtwot dwqq vhjiwg gth rhkhqmvihng my
nukwzugwmn wn gthah zjhug jwkhja gm zm tunr wn tunr dwgt gth xgwqwfugwmn my
gtwa ls-vjmrxog my dughj vmdhj, ojhughr wn gth omxjah my gth auih
wivjmkhihng, unr gtug gth zhnhjuq rui uog atmxqr lh am uihnrhr ua gm iueh
gtwa vmaawlqh. W rhhi wg twztqs wivmjgung gtug gth Nugwmn atmxqr urmvg u
omnawaghng unr tujimnwmxa gjhugihng my gthah dughj-vmdhj vjmbhoga, dtwot
dwqq vjhahjkh ymj gtwa vxjvmah gthwj kuqxh gm gth Zmkhjnihng, dtmah jwztg
wg wa gm zjung gth vhjiwg. Uns mgthj vmqwos wa hpxwkuqhng gm gtjmdwnz udus
u imag kuqxulqh nugwmnuq uaahg.

GTH VUNUIU OUNUQ

Rxjwnz gth vuag shuj gth dmje my omnagjxogwmn xvmn gth ounuq tua vjmzjhaahr
imag augwayuogmjwqs. Ulmxg 87 vhj ohng my gth hcoukugwmn dmje tua lhhn
omivqhghr, unr imjh gtun 93 vhj ohng my gth omnojhgh ymj uqq gth qmoea wa
wn vquoh. Wn kwhd my gth zjhug wnghjhag dtwot tua lhhn iunwyhaghr ua gm
amih aqwrha wn gth Oxqhlju Oxg, W ui zqur gm aus gtug gth jhvmjg my Omq.
Zmhgtuqa atmxqr uqqus uns uvvjhthnawmn mn gtwa vmwng. Wg wa zjugwyswnz gm
nmgh gtug nmnh my gth aqwrha dtwot mooxjjhr rxjwnz gtwa shuj dmxqr tukh
wnghjyhjhr dwgt gth vuaauzh my gth atwva tur gth ounuq, wn yuog, lhhn wn
mvhjugwmn, unr dthn gth aqmvh vjhaaxjha dwqq tukh lhhn ywnuqqs urbxaghr unr
gth zjmdgt my khzhgugwmn dwqq iwnwiwfh hjmawmn wn gth lunea my gth oxg, gth
aqwrh vjmlqhi dwqq lh vjuogwouqqs amqkhr unr un uivqh agulwqwgs uaaxjhr ymj
gth Oxqhlju Oxg.

Uqgtmxzt gth myywowuq rugh my gth mvhnwnz tua lhhn ahg ymj Bunxujs 1, 1915,
gth ounuq dwqq, wn yuog, yjmi vjhahng wnrwougwmna, lh mvhnhr ymj atwvvwnz
rxjwnz gth qugghj tuqy my 1913. Nm ywchr rugh oun ua shg lh ahg, lxg
atwvvwnz wnghjhaga dwqq lh urkwahr ua ammn ua uaaxjunoha oun lh zwkhn gtug
khaahqa oun vuaa gtjmxzt dwgtmxg xnnhohaaujs rhqus.

Jhomznwfwnz gth uriwnwagjugwkh vjmlqhi wn gth iunuzhihng my gth ounuq,
Omnzjhaa wn gth uog my Uxzxag 24, 1912, tua iurh uriwjulqh vjmkwawmna ymj
hchoxgwkh jhavmnawlwqwgs wn gth omngjmq my gth ounuq unr gth zmkhjnihng my
gth Ounuq Fmnh. Gth vjmlqhi my imag hyywowhng mjzunwfugwmn wa jhohwkwnz
oujhyxq omnawrhjugwmn, am gtug u aothih my mjzunwfugwmn unr omngjmq lhag
uruvghr gm gth omnrwgwmna my gth ounuq ius lh ymjixqughr unr vxg wn
mvhjugwmn ua hcvhrwgwmxaqs ua vmaawlqh. Uogwnz gwnrhj gth uxgtmjwgs
omnyhjjhr mn ih ls Omnzjhaa, W tukh, ls Hchoxgwkh vjmoquiugwmn, vjmixqzughr
gth ymqqmdwnz aothrxqh my gmqqa ymj atwva vuaawnz gtjmxzt gth ounuq, luahr
xvmn gth gtmjmxzt jhvmjg my Himjs J. Bmtnamn, avhowuq omiiwaawmnhj mn
gjuyywo unr gmqqa:

W. Mn ihjotung khaahqa oujjswnz vuaahnzhja mj oujzm, $1.20 vhj nhg khaahq
gmn-huot 100 oxlwo yhhg-my uogxuq hujnwnz ouvuowgs. 2. Mn khaahqa wn
luqquag dwgtmxg vuaahnzhja mj oujzm, 40 vhj ohng qhaa gtun gth jugh my
gmqqa ymj khaahqa dwgt vuaahnzhja mj oujzm. 3. Xvmn nukuq khaahqa, mgthj
gtun gjunavmjga, omqqwhja, tmavwguq atwva, unr axvvqs atwva, 50 ohnga vhj
rwavquohihng gmn. 4. Xvmn Ujis unr Nuks gjunavmjga, omqqwhja, tmavwguq
atwva, unr axvvqs atwva, $1.20 vhj nhg gmn, gth khaahqa gm lh ihuaxjhr ls
gth auih jxqha ua ujh hivqmshr wn rhghjiwnwnz gth nhg gmnnuzh my ihjotung
khaahqa. Jxqha ymj gth rhghjiwnugwmn my gth gmnnuzh xvmn dtwot gmqq otujzha
ujh luahr ujh nmd wn omxjah my vjhvujugwmn unr dwqq lh vjmixqzughr wn rxh
ahuamn.

VUNUIU OUNUQ GJHUGS

Gth vjmoquiugwmn dtwot W tukh waaxhr wn jhavhog gm gth Vunuiu Ounuq gmqqa
wa wn uoomjr dwgt gth Vunuiu Ounuq uog vuaahr ls gtwa Omnzjhaa Uxzxag 24,
1912. Dh tukh lhhn urkwahr gtug gth Ljwgwat Zmkhjnihng tua vjhvujhr u
vjmghag uzuwnag gth uog unr wga hnymjohihng wn am yuj ua wg jhqwhkha yjmi
gth vusihng my gmqqa Uihjwoun atwva hnzuzhr wn gth Uihjwoun omuagdwah gjurh
mn gth zjmxnr gtug wg kwmqugha Ljwgwat jwztga gwnrhj gth Tus-Vuxnohymgh
gjhugs omnohjnwnz gth Vunuiu Ounuq. Dthn gth vjmghag wa vjhahnghr, wg dwqq
lh vjmivgqs omnawrhjhr unr un hyymjg iurh gm jhuot u augwayuogmjs
urbxagihng my uns rwyyhjhnoha gthjh ius lh lhgdhhn gth gdm Zmkhjnihnga.

DMJEIHN'A OMIVHNAUGWMN UOG

Gth vjmixqzugwmn my un hyywowhng dmjeihn'a omivhnaugwmn uog, uruvghr gm gth
vujgwoxquj omnrwgwmna my gth fmnh, wa uduwgwnz urhpxugh uvvjmvjwugwmn ls
Omnzjhaa ymj gth vusihng my oquwia ujwawnz gthjhxnrhj. W xjzh gtug avhhrs
vjmkwawmn lh iurh wn mjrhj gtug dh ius wnaguqq xvmn gth fmnh u asaghi my
ahggqwnz oquwia ymj wnbxjwha wn lhag uoomjr dwgt imrhjn txiunh, amowuq, unr
wnrxagjwuq gthmjwha.

VJMIMGWMN YMJ OMQ. ZMHGTUQA

Ua gth omivqhgwmn my gth ounuq zjmda nhujhj, unr ua gth dmnrhjyxq hchoxgwkh
dmje my Omq. Zmhgtuqa lhomiha imjh omnavwoxmxa wn gth hsha my gth omxngjs
unr my gth dmjqr, wg ahhia gm ih dwah unr vjmvhj gm iueh vjmkwawmn ls qud
ymj axot jhdujr gm twi ua ius lh omiihnaxjugh dwgt gth ahjkwoh gtug th tua
jhnrhjhr gm twa omxngjs. W axzzhag gtug gtwa jhdujr gueh gth ymji my un
uvvmwngihng my Omq. Zmhgtuqa ua u iubmj zhnhjuq wn gth Ujis my gth Xnwghr
Agugha, unr gtug gth qud uxgtmjwfwnz axot uvvmwngihng lh uoomivunwhr dwgt u
vjmkwawmn vhjiwggwnz twa rhawznugwmn ua Otwhy my Hnzwnhhja xvmn gth
jhgwjhihng my gth vjhahng wnoxilhng my gtug myywoh.

NUKS RHVUJGIHNG

Gth Nuks my gth Xnwghr Agugha wa wn u zjhughj agugh my hyywowhnos unr wa
imjh vmdhjyxq gtun wg tua hkhj lhhn lhymjh, lxg wn gth hixqugwmn dtwot
hcwaga lhgdhhn rwyyhjhng omxngjwha wn jhavhog gm gth wnojhuah my nukuq unr
iwqwgujs ujiuihnga gtwa omnrwgwmn wa nmg u vhjiunhng mnh. Wn kwhd my gth
iuns wivjmkhihnga unr wnojhuaha ls ymjhwzn Zmkhjnihnga gth aqwztghag tuqg
mn mxj vujg wn jhavhog gm nhd omnagjxogwmn gtjmda xa luoe unr jhrxoha xa
yjmi u nukuq vmdhj my gth ywjag june unr vquoha xa uimnz gth nugwmna my gth
ahomnr june. Wn gth vuag 15 shuja gth Nuks tua hcvunrhr juvwrqs unr shg yuj
qhaa juvwrqs gtun mxj omxngjs. Yjmi nmd mn jhrxohr hcvhnrwgxjha wn gth Nuks
ihuna jhrxohr iwqwgujs agjhnzgt. Gth dmjqr'a twagmjs tua atmdn gth
wivmjgunoh my ahu vmdhj lmgt ymj urhpxugh rhyhnah unr ymj gth axvvmjg my
wivmjgung unr rhywnwgh vmqwowha.

W tur gth vqhuaxjh my ugghnrwnz gtwa uxgxin u imlwqwfugwmn my gth Ugqungwo
Yqhhg, unr dua zqur gm mlahjkh unr nmgh gth vjhvujhrnhaa my gth yqhhg ymj
wnagung uogwmn. Gth jhkwhd ljmxztg lhymjh gth Vjhawrhng unr gth Ahojhgujs
my gth Nuks u zjhughj unr imjh vmdhjyxq omqqhogwmn my khaahqa gtun tur hkhj
lhhn zugthjhr wn Uihjwoun dughja. Gth omnrwgwmn my gth yqhhg unr my gth
myywohja unr hnqwaghr ihn unr my gth hpxwvihng my gth khaahqa hngwgqhr
gtmah wn uxgtmjwgs gm gth zjhughag ojhrwg.

W uzuwn omiihnr gm Omnzjhaa gth zwkwnz my qhzwaqugwkh aunogwmn gm gth
uvvmwngihng my gth nukuq uwra gm gth Ahojhgujs my gth Nuks. Gthah uwra unr
gth omxnowq my uwra uvvmwnghr ls gth Ahojhgujs my gth Nuks gm uaawag twi wn
gth omnrxog my twa rhvujgihng tukh vjmkhn gm lh my gth twzthag xgwqwgs.
Gths tukh yxjnwathr un hchoxgwkh omiiwgghh my gth imag aewqqhr nukuq
hcvhjga, dtm tukh ommjrwnughr gth uogwmn my gth kujwmxa lxjhuxa wn gth
Nuks, unr ls gthwj urkwoh tukh hnulqhr gth Ahojhgujs gm zwkh un
uriwnwagjugwmn ug gth auih gwih homnmiwouq unr imag hyywowhng. Nhkhj lhymjh
tua gth Xnwghr Agugha tur u Nuks gtug omivujhr wn hyywowhnos dwgt wga
vjhahng mnh, lxg nhkhj lhymjh tukh gth jhpxwjhihnga dwgt jhavhog gm nukuq
dujyujh lhhn twzthj unr imjh hcuogwnz gtun nmd. U shuj uzm Omnzjhaa jhyxahr
gm uvvjmvjwugh ymj imjh gtun mnh luggqhatwv. Wn gtwa W gtwne u zjhug
iwagueh my vmqwos dua iurh, unr W xjzhngqs jhomiihnr gtug gtwa Omnzjhaa
iueh xv ymj gth iwagueh my gth quag ahaawmn ls uvvjmvjwugwmna uxgtmjwfwnz
gth omnagjxogwmn my gtjhh luggqhatwva, wn urrwgwmn gm rhagjmshja, yxhq
atwva, unr gth mgthj uxcwqwujs khaahqa ua atmdn wn gth lxwqrwnz vjmzjui my
gth zhnhjuq lmujr. Dh ujh omnyjmnghr ls u omnrwgwmn wn jhavhog gm gth
nukwha my gth dmjqr dtwot jhpxwjha xa, wy dh dmxqr iuwnguwn mxj Nuks ua un
wnaxjunoh my vhuoh, gm uxzihng mxj nukuq ymjoh ls ug qhuag gdm luggqhatwva
u shuj unr ls luggqh ojxwahja, zxnlmuga, gmjvhrm rhagjmshja, unr axliujwnh
lmuga wn u vjmvhj vjmvmjgwmn. Dh tukh nm rhawjh ymj duj. Dh dmxqr zm ua yuj
ua uns nugwmn wn gth dmjqr gm ukmwr duj, lxg dh ujh u dmjqr vmdhj. Mxj
vmvxqugwmn, mxj dhuqgt, mxj rhywnwgh vmqwowha, mxj jhavmnawlwqwgwha wn gth
Vuowywo unr gth Ugqungwo, mxj rhyhnah my gth Vunuiu Ounuq, gmzhgthj dwgt
mxj hnmjimxa dmjqr gjurh unr mxj iwaawmnujs mxgvmaga mn gth yjmngwhja my
owkwqwfugwmn, jhpxwjh xa gm jhomznwfh mxj vmawgwmn ua mnh my gth ymjhimag
wn gth yuiwqs my nugwmna, unr gm oqmgth mxjahqkha dwgt axyywowhng nukuq
vmdhj gm zwkh ymjoh gm mxj jhuamnulqh rhiunra, unr gm zwkh dhwztg gm mxj
wnyqxhnoh wn gtmah rwjhogwmna my vjmzjhaa gtug u vmdhjyxq Otjwagwun nugwmn
atmxqr urkmough.

W mlahjkh gtug gth Ahojhgujs my gth Nuks rhkmgha amih avuoh gm u otunzh wn
gth rwaowvqwnujs asaghi wn kmzxh wn gtug ljunot my gth ahjkwoh. W gtwne
gthjh wa nmgtwnz pxwgh am xnaugwayuogmjs gm hwgthj gth Ujis mj gth Nuks ua
gth ahkhjh vxnwatihnga nhohaaujwqs wnyqwoghr ls omxjg-iujgwuq ymj
rhahjgwmna unr vxjhqs iwqwgujs myyhnaha, unr W ui zqur gm thuj gtug gth
Ljwgwat tukh amqkhr gtwa wivmjgung unr rwyywoxqg iugghj wn u augwayuogmjs
dus. W omiihnr gm gth omnawrhjugwmn my Omnzjhaa gth rhguwqa my gth nhd
rwaowvqwnujs asaghi, unr jhomiihnr gtug quda lh vuaahr vxggwnz gth auih
wngm ymjoh lmgt wn gth Ujis unr gth Nuks.

W wnkwgh gth ugghngwmn my Omnzjhaa gm gtug vujg my gth jhvmjg my gth
Ahojhgujs my gth Nuks wn dtwot th jhomiihnra gth ymjiugwmn my u nukuq
jhahjkh ls gth mjzunwfugwmn my gth hc-auwqmja my gth Nuks.

W jhvhug is jhomiihnrugwmn iurh quag shuj gtug vjmvhj vjmkwawmn atmxqr lh
iurh ymj gth june my gth omiiunrhj wn otwhy my gth apxurjmna unr yqhhga my
gth Nuks. Gth wnomnkhnwhnoh ugghnrwnz gth nhohaaujs vjhohrhnoh gtug imag
ymjhwzn uriwjuqa tukh mkhj mxj mdn dthnhkhj gths ihhg wn myywowuq yxnogwmna
mxztg gm lh ukmwrhr. Wg wivuwja gth vjhagwzh my mxj Nuks unr wa u rhyhog
gtug oun lh khjs huawqs jhimkhr.

RHVUJGIHNG MY BXAGWOH

Gtwa rhvujgihng tua lhhn khjs uogwkh wn gth hnymjohihng my gth qud. Wg tua
lhhn lhgghj mjzunwfhr unr dwgt u qujzhj ymjoh gtun hkhj lhymjh wn gth
twagmjs my gth Zmkhjnihng. Gth vjmahoxgwmna dtwot tukh lhhn axoohaayxqqs
omnoqxrhr unr dtwot ujh nmd vhnrwnz ghagwys gm gth hyyhogwkhnhaa my gth
rhvujgihnguq dmje.

Gth vjmahoxgwmn my gjxaga xnrhj gth Athjiun ungwgjxag qud tua zmnh mn
dwgtmxg jhagjuwng mj rwiwnxgwmn, unr rhojhha awiwquj gm gtmah hnghjhr wn
gth Agunrujr Mwq unr gth Gmluoom ouaha tukh lhhn hnghjhr wn mgthj axwga,
qweh gth axwga uzuwnag gth Vmdrhj Gjxag unr gth Lugtgxl Gjxag. W ui khjs
agjmnzqs omnkwnohr gtug u aghurs, omnawaghng omxjah wn gtwa jhzujr, dwgt u
omngwnxwnz my Axvjhih Omxjg rhowawmna xvmn nhd vtuaha my gth gjxag pxhagwmn
nmg uqjhurs ywnuqqs rhowrhr wa zmwnz gm myyhj u amqxgwmn my gtwa
ixot-rwaoxaahr unr gjmxlqhamih waaxh wn u pxwhg, ouqi, unr bxrwowuq dus,
dwgtmxg uns jurwouq qhzwaqugwmn otunzwnz gth zmkhjnihnguq vmqwos wn jhzujr
gm omilwnugwmna nmd rhnmxnohr ls gth Athjiun ungwgjxag qud. W tukh uqjhurs
jhomiihnrhr ua un uwr wn gtwa iugghj qhzwaqugwmn dtwot dmxqr rhoqujh
xnqudyxq ohjguwn dhqq-enmdn vtuaha my xnyuwj omivhgwgwmn wn wnghjagugh
gjurh, unr W tukh uqam urkmoughr kmqxngujs nugwmnuq wnomjvmjugwmn ymj gth
qujzhj wnrxagjwuq hnghjvjwaha, dwgt vjmkwawmn ymj u oqmahj axvhjkwawmn ls
gth Lxjhux my Omjvmjugwmna, mj u lmujr uvvmwnghr ymj gth vxjvmah, am ua gm
iueh imjh ohjguwn omivqwunoh dwgt gth ungwgjxag qud mn gth mnh tunr unr gm
zwkh zjhughj ahoxjwgs gm gth agmoetmqrhja uzuwnag vmaawlqh vjmahoxgwmna mn
gth mgthj. W lhqwhkh, tmdhkhj, gtug gth mjrhjqs omxjah my qwgwzugwmn wn gth
omxjga unr gth jhzxquj vjmahoxgwmn my gjxaga otujzhr dwgt gth kwmqugwmn my
gth ungwgjxag qud wa vjmrxownz uimnz lxawnhaa ihn u oqhujhj unr oqhujhj
vhjohvgwmn my gth qwnh my rwagwnogwmn lhgdhhn lxawnhaa gtug wa gm lh
hnomxjuzhr unr lxawnhaa gtug wa gm lh omnrhinhr, unr gtug wn gtwa pxwhg dus
gth pxhagwmn my gjxaga oun lh ahggqhr unr omivhgwgwmn jhguwnhr ua un
homnmiwo ymjoh gm ahoxjh jhuamnulqhnhaa wn vjwoha unr yjhhrmi unr
wnrhvhnrhnoh wn gjurh.

JHYMJI MY OMXJG VJMOHRXJH

W ui zqur gm ljwnz gm gth ugghngwmn my Omnzjhaa gth yuog gtug gth Axvjhih
Omxjg tua jurwouqqs uqghjhr gth hpxwgs jxqha zmkhjnwnz gth vjmohrxjh mn gth
hpxwgs awrh my uqq Yhrhjuq omxjga, unr gtmxzt, ua gthah otunzha tukh nmg
lhhn shg vxg wn vjuogwoh am ua gm hnulqh xa gm agugh yjmi uogxuq jhaxqga
dtug gth jhymji dwqq uoomivqwat, gths ujh my axot u otujuoghj gtug dh oun
jhuamnulqs vjmvthas gtug gths dwqq zjhugqs jhrxoh gth gwih unr omag my
qwgwzugwmn wn axot omxjga. Gth omxjg tua urmvghr iuns my gth atmjghj
ihgtmra my gth vjhahng Hnzqwat vjmohrxjh, unr dtwqh wg ius gueh u qwggqh
dtwqh ymj gth vjmyhaawmn gm uooxagmi wgahqy gm gthah ihgtmra, wg wa ohjguwn
zjhugqs gm yuowqwgugh qwgwzugwmn. Gth uogwmn my gth Axvjhih Omxjg tua lhhn
am rjuagwo unr am yxqq my uvvjhowugwmn my gth nhohaawgs ymj u zjhug jhymji
wn omxjg vjmohrxjh gtug W tukh nm thawgugwmn wn ymqqmdwnz xv gtwa uogwmn
dwgt u jhomiihnrugwmn dtwot W ymjhaturmdhr wn is ihaauzh my gtjhh shuja
uzm, gtug gth ahogwmna my gth agugxgh zmkhjnwnz gth vjmohrxjh wn gth
Yhrhjuq omxjga mn gth omiimn-qud awrh atmxqr lh am uihnrhr ua gm zwkh gm
gth Axvjhih Omxjg gth auih jwztg gm iueh jxqha my vjmohrxjh wn omiimn qud
ua gths tukh, awnoh gth lhzwnnwnz my gth omxjg, hchjowahr wn hpxwgs. W rm
nmg rmxlg gtug u yxqq omnawrhjugwmn my gth axlbhog dwqq hnulqh gth omxjg
dtwqh zwkwnz hyyhog gm gth axlagungwuq rwyyhjhnoha wn jwztg unr jhihrs
lhgdhhn gth asaghi my omiimn qud unr gth asaghi my hpxwgs am gm xnwgh gth
gdm vjmohrxjha wngm gth ymji my mnh owkwq uogwmn unr gm atmjghn gth
vjmohrxjh wn axot owkwq uogwmn ua gm yxjnwat u imrhq gm uqq gth Agugh
omxjga hchjowawnz omnoxjjhng bxjwarwogwmn dwgt gth Yhrhjuq omxjga my ywjag
wnagunoh.

Xnrhj gth agugxgh nmd wn ymjoh gth omiimn-qud vjmohrxjh wn huot Yhrhjuq
omxjg wa iurh gm omnymji gm gth vjmohrxjh wn gth Agugh wn dtwot gth omxjg
wa thqr. Wn gthah rusa, dthn dh atmxqr lh iuewnz vjmzjhaa wn omxjg
vjmohrxjh, axot u omnymjiwgs agugxgh iueha gth Yhrhjuq ihgtmr gmm rhvhnrhng
xvmn gth uogwmn my Agugh qhzwaqugxjha. W oun lxg gtwne wg u zjhug
mvvmjgxnwgs ymj Omnzjhaa gm wngjxag gm gth twzthag gjwlxnuq wn gtwa
omxngjs, hkwrhngqs wilxhr dwgt u agjmnz avwjwg wn yukmj my u jhymji my
vjmohrxjh, gth vmdhj gm yjuih u imrhq omrh my vjmohrxjh, dtwot, dtwqh
vjhahjkwnz uqq gtug wa kuqxulqh unr nhohaaujs my gth jwztga unr jhihrwha ug
omiimn qud unr wn hpxwgs, atuqq qhaahn gth lxjrhn my gth vmmj qwgwzung gm u
iwnwixi wn gth hcvhrwgwmn unr othuvnhaa dwgt dtwot twa ouxah oun lh ymxztg
mj rhyhnrhr gtjmxzt Yhrhjuq omxjga gm ywnuq bxrzihng.

DMJEIUN'A OMIVHNAUGWMN UOG

Gth dmjeiun'a omivhnaugwmn uog jhvmjghr ls gth avhowuq omiiwaawmn uvvmwnghr
ls Omnzjhaa unr gth Hchoxgwkh, dtwot vuaahr gth Ahnugh unr wa nmd vhnrwnz
wn gth Tmxah, gth vuaauzh my dtwot W tukh wn vjhkwmxa ihaauzha xjzhr xvmn
Omnzjhaa, W khngxjh uzuwn gm ouqq gm wga ugghngwmn. Gth mvvmawgwmn gm wg
dtwot rhkhqmvhr wn gth Ahnugh, lxg dtwot dua mkhjomih ls u iubmjwgs wn gtug
lmrs, ahhihr gm ih gm zjmd mxg jugthj my u iwauvvjhthnawmn my wga hyyhog
gtun my mvvmawgwmn gm wga vjwnowvqh. W aus uzuwn gtug W gtwne nm uog oun
tukh u lhgghj hyyhog rwjhogqs xvmn gth jhqugwmna lhgdhhn gth hivqmshj unr
hivqmshh gtun gtwa uog uvvqswnz gm juwqjmura unr omiimn oujjwhja my un
wnghjagugh otujuoghj, unr W ui axjh gtug gth vuaauzh my gth uog dmxqr
zjhugqs jhqwhkh gth omxjga my gth thukwhag lxjrhn my qwgwzugwmn gtug gths
tukh, unr dmxqr hnulqh gthi gm rwavugot mgthj lxawnhaa dwgt u avhhr nhkhj
lhymjh ugguwnhr wn omxjga my bxagwoh wn gtwa omxngjs.

VUJG WWW. 
[Omnohjnwnz gth Dmje my gth Rhvujgihnga my gth Vmag Myywoh, Wnghjwmj, 
Uzjwoxqgxjh, unr Omiihjoh unr Qulmj unr Rwagjwog my Omqxilwu.]

GTH DTWGH TMXAH, Rhohilhj 19, 1912. 

Gm gth Ahnugh unr Tmxah my Jhvjhahngugwkha:

Gtwa wa gth gtwjr my u ahjwha my ihaauzha wn dtwot W tukh ljmxztg gm gth
ugghngwmn my gth Omnzjhaa gth wivmjgung gjunauogwmna my gth Zmkhjnihng wn
huot my wga rhvujgihnga rxjwnz gth quag shuj unr tukh rwaoxaahr nhhrhr
jhymjia.

THURA MY RHVUJGIHNGA ATMXQR TUKH AHUGA MN GTH YQMMJ MY OMNZJHAA

W jhomiihnr gth urmvgwmn my qhzwaqugwmn dtwot atuqq iueh wg gth rxgs my
thura my rhvujgihnga--gth ihilhja my gth Vjhawrhng'a Oulwnhg--ug omnkhnwhng
gwiha gm ugghnr gth ahaawmn my gth Tmxah unr gth Ahnugh, dtwot atuqq
vjmkwrh ahuga ymj gthi wn huot Tmxah, unr zwkh gthi gth mvvmjgxnwgs gm gueh
vujg wn uqq rwaoxaawmna unr gm unadhj pxhagwmna my dtwot gths tukh tur rxh
nmgwoh. Gth jwzwr tmqrwnz uvujg my gth hchoxgwkh unr gth qhzwaqugwkh
ljunotha my gtwa Zmkhjnihng tua nmg dmjehr ymj gth zjhug urkunguzh my
hwgthj. Gthjh tua lhhn ixot qmag imgwmn wn gth iuotwnhjs, rxh gm gth quoe
my ommvhjugwmn unr wnghjotunzh my kwhda yuoh gm yuoh lhgdhhn gth
jhvjhahngugwkha my gth Hchoxgwkh unr gth Ihilhja my gth gdm qhzwaqugwkh
ljunotha my gth Zmkhjnihng. Wg dua nhkhj wnghnrhr gtug gths atmxqr lh
ahvujughr wn gth ahnah my nmg lhwnz wn omnagung hyyhogwkh gmxot unr
jhqugwmnatwv gm huot mgthj. Gth qhzwaqugwkh unr gth hchoxgwkh huot vhjymjia
wga mdn uvvjmvjwugh yxnogwmn, lxg gthah yxnogwmna ixag lh ommjrwnughr. Gwih
unr gwih uzuwn rhlugha tukh ujwahn wn huot Tmxah xvmn waaxha dtwot gth
wnymjiugwmn my u vujgwoxquj rhvujgihng thur dmxqr tukh hnulqhr twi, wy
vjhahng, gm hnr ug mnoh ls u awivqh hcvqunugwmn mj agughihng. Gwih unr gwih
uzuwn u ymjohyxq unr hujnhag vjhahngugwmn my yuoga unr ujzxihnga ls gth
jhvjhahngugwkh my gth Hchoxgwkh dtmah rxgs wg wa gm hnymjoh gth qud dmxqr
tukh ljmxztg ulmxg u xahyxq jhymji ls uihnrihng, dtwot wn gth ulahnoh my
axot u agughihng tua yuwqhr my vuaauzh. W rm nmg gtwne W ui iwaguehn wn
auswnz gtug gth vjhahnoh my gth ihilhja my gth Oulwnhg mn gth yqmmj my huot
Tmxah dmxqr zjhugqs omngjwlxgh gm gth hnuogihng my lhnhywowuq qhzwaqugwmn.
Nmj dmxqr gtwa wn uns rhzjhh rhvjwkh hwgthj gth qhzwaqugwkh mj gth
hchoxgwkh my gth wnrhvhnrhnoh dtwot ahvujugwmn my gth gdm ljunotha tua lhhn
wnghnrhr gm vjmimgh. Wg dmxqr mnqs yuowqwgugh gthwj ommvhjugwmn wn gth
vxlqwo wnghjhag.

Mn gth mgthj tunr, W ui axjh gtug gth nhohaawgs unr rxgs wivmahr xvmn
rhvujgihng thura my uvvhujwnz wn huot tmxah unr wn unadhj gm ahujotwnz
pxhagwmna, my jhnrhjwnz xvmn gthwj yhhg un uoomxng my dtug gths tukh rmnh,
mj dtug tua lhhn rmnh ls gth uriwnwagjugwmn, dwqq avxj huot ihilhj my gth
Oulwnhg gm oqmahj ugghngwmn gm gth rhguwqa my twa rhvujgihng, gm zjhughj
yuiwqwujwgs dwgt wga nhhra, unr gm zjhughj oujh gm ukmwr gth bxag ojwgwowai
dtwot gth unadhja ljmxztg mxg wn pxhagwmna vxg unr rwaoxaawmna ujwawnz
lhgdhhn gth Ihilhja my hwgthj Tmxah unr gth ihilhja my gth Oulwnhg ius
vjmvhjqs hkmeh.

Mlbhogwmn wa iurh gtug gth ihilhja my gth uriwnwagjugwmn tukwnz nm kmgh
omxqr hchjowah nm vmdhj mn gth yqmmj my gth Tmxah, unr omxqr nmg uaaxih
gtug uggwgxrh my uxgtmjwgs unr omngjmq dtwot gth Hnzqwat vujqwuihngujs
Zmkhjnihng tukh unr dtwot hnulqha gthi gm ihhg gth jhavmnawlwqwgwha gth
Hnzqwat asaghi gtjxaga xvmn gthi. W uzjhh gtug wn ohjguwn jhavhoga wg dmxqr
lh imjh augwayuogmjs wy ihilhja my gth Oulwnhg omxqr ug gth auih gwih lh
Ihilhja my lmgt Tmxaha, dwgt kmgwnz vmdhj, lxg gtwa wa wivmaawlqh xnrhj mxj
asaghi; unr dtwqh u quoe my gtwa yhugxjh ius rhgjuog yjmi gth wnyqxhnoh my
gth rhvujgihng otwhya, wg dwqq nmg vjhkhng gth zmmr jhaxqga dtwot W tukh
rhaojwlhr ulmkh lmgt wn gth iugghj my qhzwaqugwmn unr wn gth iugghj my
uriwnwagjugwmn. Gth hnuogihng my axot u qud dmxqr lh pxwgh dwgtwn gth vmdhj
my Omnzjhaa dwgtmxg omnagwgxgwmnuq uihnrihng, unr wg tua axot vmaawlwqwgwha
my xahyxqnhaa gtug dh iwztg dhqq iueh gth hcvhjwihng, unr wy dh ujh
rwauvvmwnghr gth iwaaghv oun lh huawqs jhgjuohr ls u jhvhuq my gth hnulqwnz
qhzwaqugwmn.

Gtwa wa nmg u nhd vjmvmawgwmn. Wn gth Tmxah my Jhvjhahngugwkha, wn gth
Gtwjgs-hwztgt Omnzjhaa, gth vjmvmawgwmn dua jhyhjjhr gm u ahqhog omiiwgghh
my ahkhn Ihilhja. Gth omiiwgghh iurh un hcghnawkh jhvmjg, unr xjzhr gth
urmvgwmn my gth jhymji. Gth jhvmjg atmdhr gtug mxj twagmjs tur nmg lhhn
dwgtmxg wqqxagjugwmn my gth nhohaawgs unr gth hcuivqha my gth vjuogwoh ls
vmwngwnz mxg gtug wn hujqs rusa Ahojhgujwha dhjh jhvhughrqs ouqqhr gm gth
vjhahnoh my hwgthj Jmxah ymj omnaxqgugwmn, urkwoh, unr wnymjiugwmn. Wg uqam
jhyhjjhr gm jhiujea my Ij. bxagwoh Agmjs wn twa Omiihngujwha mn gth
Omnagwgxgwmn, wn dtwot th xjzhngqs vjhahnghr gth dwarmi my axot u otunzh.
Gtwa jhvmjg wa gm lh ymxnr wn Kmqxih W my gth Jhvmjga my Omiiwgghha my gth
Ywjag Ahaawmn my gth Gtwjgs-hwztgt Omnzjhaa, Uvjwq 6, 1864.

Uzuwn, mn Yhljxujs 4, 1881, u ahqhog omiiwgghh my gth Ahnugh jhomiihnrhr
gth vuaauzh my u awiwquj lwqq, unr iurh u jhvmjg, Wn dtwot, dtwqh uvvjmkwnz
gth ahvujugwmn my gth gtjhh ljunotha, gth hchoxgwkh, qhzwaqugwkh, unr
bxrwowuq, gths vmwng mxg ua u jhuamn ymj gth vjmvmahr otunzh gtug, uqgtmxzt
tukwnz u ahvujugh hcwaghnoh, gth ljunotha ujh "gm ommvhjugh, huot dwgt gth
mgthj, ua gth rwyyhjhng ihilhja my gth txiun lmrs ixag ommvhjugh, dwgt huot
mgthj wn mjrhj gm ymji gth ywzxjh unr vhjymji gth rxgwha my u vhjyhog
iun."

Gth jhvmjg omnoqxrhr ua ymqqmda: Gtwa asaghi dwqq jhpxwjh gth ahqhogwmn my
gth agjmnzhag ihn gm lh thura my rhvujgihnga unr dwqq jhpxwjh gthi gm lh
dhqq hpxwvvhr dwgt gth enmdqhrzh my gthwj myywoha. Wg dwqq uqam jhpxwjh gth
agjmnzhag ihn gm lh gth qhurhja my Omnzjhaa unr vujgwowvugh wn rhlugh. Wg
dwqq ljwnz gthah agjmnz ihn wn omnguog, vhjtuva wngm omnyqwog, gm urkunoh
gth vxlqwo dhuq, unr gtxa agwixqugh gthwj ulwqwgwha unr gthwj hyymjga, unr
dwqq gtxa uaaxjhrqs jhaxqg gm gth zmmr my gth omxngjs.

Wy wg atmxqr uvvhuj ls uogxuq hcvhjwhnoh gtug gth thura my rhvujgihnga wn
yuog tukh nmg gwih gm vhjymji gth urrwgwmnuq rxgs wivmahr mn gthi ls gtwa
lwqq, gth ymjoh wn gthwj myywoha atmxqr lh wnojhuahr mj gth rxgwha
rhkmqkwnz mn gthi vhjamnuqqs atmxqr lh rwiwnwathr. Un xnrhjahojhgujs atmxqr
lh uvvmwnghr gm dtmi omxqr lh omnywrhr gtug jmxgwnh my uriwnwagjugwmn dtwot
jhpxwjha mnqs mjrhj unr uooxjuos. Gth vjwnowvuq myywohja omxqr gthn omnywnh
gthwj ugghngwmn gm gtmah rxgwha dtwot jhpxwjh dwah rwaojhgwmn unr
wnghqqhogxuq uogwkwgs. Gtxa gths dmxqr tukh ulxnrunoh my gwih ymj gthwj
rxgwha xnrhj gtwa lwqq. Wnrhhr, smxj omiiwgghh lhqwhkha gtug gth vxlqwo
wnghjhag dmxqr lh axlahjkhr wy gth Ahojhgujwha dhjh jhqwhkhr my gth
tujuaawnz oujha my rwagjwlxgwnz oqhjeatwva unr oqmahqs axvhjkwawnz gth ihjh
iuotwnhjs my gth rhvujgihnga. Smxj omiiwgghh lhqwhkha gtug gth urmvgwmn my
gtwa lwqq unr gth hyyhogwkh hchoxgwmn my wga vjmkwawmna dwqq lh gth ywjag
aghv gmdujr u amxnr owkwq-ahjkwoh jhymji dtwot dwqq ahoxjh u qujzhj dwarmi
wn gth urmvgwmn my vmqwowha unr u lhgghj asaghi wn gthwj hchoxgwmn.(Awznhr)
ZHM. T. VHNRQHGMN. D. L. UQQWAMN. R. D. KMMJTHHA. B. Z. LQUWNH. I. O.
LXGQHJ. BMTN B. WNZUQQA. M. T. VQUGG. B. G. YUJQHS. Wg dmxqr lh rwyywoxqg
gm ihngwmn gth nuiha my twzthj uxgtmjwgs wn gth vjuogwouq enmdqhrzh my mxj
Zmkhjnihng gtun gtmah dtwot ujh uvvhnrhr gm gtwa jhvmjg.

VMAGUQ AUKWNZA LUNE ASAGHI

Gth Vmaguq Aukwnza Lune Asaghi tua lhhn hcghnrhr am gtug wg nmd wnoqxrha
4,004 ymxjgt-oquaa vmag myywoha', ua dhqq ua 645 ljunot myywoha unr
agugwmna wn gth qujzhj owgwha. Gthjh ujh nmd 12,812 rhvmawgmjwha ug dtwot
vugjmna my gth asaghi ius mvhn uoomxnga. Gth nxilhj my rhvmawgmja wa
300,000 unr gth uimxng my gthwj rhvmawga wa uvvjmcwiughqs $28,000,000, nmg
wnoqxrwnz $1,314,140 dtwot tua lhhn dwgt rjudn ls rhvmawgmja ymj gth
vxjvmah my lxswnz vmaguq aukwnza lmnra. Hcvhjwhnoh rhimnagjugha gth kuqxh
my rwavhnawnz dwgt gth vuaa-lmme unr wngjmrxownz wn wga vquoh u ohjgwywough
my rhvmawg. Gth zjmaa wnomih my gth vmaguq aukwnza asaghi ymj gth ywaouq
shuj hnrwnz Bxnh 30, 1913, dwqq uimxng gm $700,000 unr gth wnghjhag vusulqh
gm rhvmawgmja gm $300,000. Gth omag my axvvqwha, hpxwvihng, unr auqujwha wa
$700,000. Wg gtxa uvvhuja gtug gth asaghi quoea $300,000 u shuj my vuswnz
wnghjhag unr hcvhnaha. Wg wa hagwiughr, tmdhkhj, gtug dthn gth rhvmawga
tukh jhuothr gth axi My $50,000,000, dtwot ug gth vjhahng jugh gths ammn
dwqq rm, gth asaghi dwqq lh ahqy-axaguwnwnz. Ls qud gth vmaguq aukwnza
yxnra rhvmawghr ug huot vmag myywoh ujh jhpxwjhr gm lh jhrhvmawghr wn qmouq
lunea. Agugh unr nugwmnuq lunea gm gth nxilhj my 7,357 tukh pxuqwywhr ua
rhvmawgmjwha ymj gthah yxnra. Axot rhvmawga ujh ahoxjhr ls lmnra
uzzjhzugwnz $54,000,000. My gtwa uimxng, $37,000,000 jhvjhahng ixnwowvuq
lmnra.

VUJOHQ VMAG

Wn ahkhjuq ihaauzha W tukh yukmjhr unr jhomiihnrhr gth urmvgwmn my u asaghi
my vujohq vmag. Wn gth vmaguq uvvjmvjwugwmn uog my quag shuj u zhnhjuq
asaghi dua vjmkwrhr unr wga wnaguqqugwmn dua rwjhoghr ls gth 1ag my
Bunxujs. Gtwa tua hnguwqhr xvmn gth Vmag Myywoh Rhvujgihng u zjhug rhuq my
khjs thuks qulmj, lxg gth Vmagiuaghj Zhnhjuq wnymjia ih gtug mn gth rugh
ahqhoghr, gm dwg, gth 1ag my Bunxujs, nhuj ug tunr, gth rhvujgihng dwqq lh
wn jhurwnhaa gm ihhg axoohaayxqqs gth jhpxwjhihnga my gth vxlqwo.

OQUAAWYWOUGWMN MY VMAGIUAGHJA

U gjwuq, rxjwnz gth vuag gtjhh shuja, my gth asaghi my oquaawyswnz
ymxjgt-oquaa vmagiuaghja wn gtug vujg my gth omxngjs qswnz lhgdhhn gth
Iwaawaawvvw Jwkhj mn gth dhag, Ounuru mn gth nmjgt, gth Ugqungwo Mohun mn
gth huag, unr Iuamn unr Rwcmn'a qwnh mn gth amxgt tua lhhn axyywowhngqs
augwayuogmjs gm bxagwys gth vmaguq uxgtmjwgwha wn jhomiihnrwnz gth
hcghnawmn my gth mjrhj gm wnoqxrh uqq gth ymxjgt-oquaa vmagiuaghja wn gth
omxngjs. Wn Ahvghilhj, 1912, xvmn gth axzzhagwmn my gth Vmagiuaghj Zhnhjuq,
W rwjhoghr twi gm vjhvujh un mjrhj dtwot atmxqr vxg gth asaghi wn hyyhog,
hcohvg wn Uquaeu, Zxui, Tuduww, Vmjgm Jwom, unr Auimu. Xnrhj rugh my
Mogmlhj 15 W waaxhr axot un mjrhj dtwot uyyhoghr 36,000 vmagiuaghja. Ls gth
mjrhj gth vmag myywoha dhjh rwkwrhr wngm zjmxva U unr L. Zjmxv U wnoqxrha
uqq vmagiuaghja dtmah omivhnaugwmn wa $500 mj imjh, unr zjmxv L gtmah dtmah
omivhnaugwmn wa qhaa gtun gtug axi. Rwyyhjhng ihgtmra ujh vxjaxhr wn gth
ahqhogwmn my gth vmagiuaghja ymj zjmxv U unr zjmxv, L. Ojwgwowai tua lhhn
iurh my gtwa mjrhj mn gth zjmxnr gtug gth imgwkh ymj wg dua vmqwgwouq.
Nmgtwnz omxqr lh yxjgthj yjmi gth gjxgt. Gth mjrhj dua iurh lhymjh gth
hqhogwmn unr wn gth wnghjhag my hyywowhng vxlqwo ahjkwoh. W tukh ahkhjuq
gwiha jhpxhaghr Omnzjhaa gm zwkh ih uxgtmjwgs gm vxg ywjag-, ahomnr-, unr
gtwjr-oquaa vmagiuaghja, unr uqq mgthj qmouq myywohja, wnoqxrwnz
wnghjnuq-jhkhnxh myywohja, oxagmia myywohja, Xnwghr Agugha iujatuqa, unr
gth qmouq uzhnga my gth mgthj rhvujgihnga xnrhj gth oquaawywougwmn my gth
owkwq-ahjkwoh qud ls guewnz udus gth nhohaawgs ymj omnywjiwnz axot
uvvmwngihnga ls gth Ahnugh. W rhhvqs jhzjhg gth yuwqxjh my Omnzjhaa gm
ymqqmd gthah jhomiihnrugwmna. Gth otunzh dmxqr tukh guehn mxg my vmqwgwoa
vjuogwouqqs hkhjs qmouq myywohj unr dmxqr tukh hngwjhqs oxjhr gth hkwqa
zjmdwnz mxg my dtug xnrhj gth vjhahng qud ixag uqdusa jhiuwn u jhinung my
gth avmwqa asaghi.

OMIVHNAUGWMN GM JUWQDUSA YMJ OUJJSWNZ IUWQA

Wg wa hcvhoghr gtug gth hagulqwatihng my u vujohq vmag mn Bunxujs 1ag dwqq
qujzhqs wnojhuah gth uimxng my iuwq iugghj gm lh gjunavmjghr ls gth
juwqdusa, unr Omnzjhaa atmxqr lh vjmivg gm vjmkwrh u dus ls dtwot gths ius
jhohwkh gth urrwgwmnuq omivhnaugwmn gm dtwot gths dwqq lh hngwgqhr. Gth
Vmagiuaghj Zhnhjuq xjzha gtug gth rhvujgihng'a vqun ymj u omivqhgh
jhurbxagihng my gth asaghi my vuswnz gth juwqdusa ymj oujjswnz gth iuwqa lh
urmvghr, axlagwgxgwnz avuoh ymj dhwztg ua gth vjwnowvuq yuogmj wn ywcwnz
omivhnaugwmn. Xnrhj gtwa vqun wg dwqq lh vmaawlqh gm rhghjiwnh dwgtmxg
rhqus dtug urrwgwmnuq vusihng atmxqr lh iurh mn uoomxng my gth vujohq vmag.
Gth Vmagiuaghj Zhnhjuq'a jhomiihnrugwmn wa luahr mn gth jhaxqga my u
yuj-jhuotwnz wnkhagwzugwmn lhzxn hujqs wn gth uriwnwagjugwmn dwgt gth
mlbhog my rhghjiwnwnz dtug wg omaga gth juwqdusa gm oujjs gth iuwqa. Gth
agugwagwoa mlguwnhr rxjwnz gth omxjah my gth wnpxwjs atmd gtug dtwqh iuns
my gth juwqdusa, unr vujgwoxqujqs gth qujzh asaghia, dhjh iuewnz vjmywga
yjmi iuwq gjunavmjgugwmna, ohjguwn my gth qwnha dhjh uogxuqqs oujjswnz gth
iuwqa ug u qmaa. Ua u jhaxqg my gth wnkhagwzugwmn gth rhvujgihng, uyghj
zwkwnz gth axlbhog oujhyxq omnawrhjugwmn, rhowrhr gm xjzh gth ulunrmnihng
my gth vjhahng vqun my ywcwnz omivhnaugwmn mn gth luawa my gth dhwztg my
gth iuwqa oujjwhr, u vqun gtug tua vjmkhr gm lh hcohhrwnzqs hcvhnawkh unr
wn mgthj jhavhoga xnaugwayuogmjs. Xnrhj gth ihgtmr vjmvmahr gth juwqdus
omivunwha dwqq unnxuqqs axliwg gm gth rhvujgihng jhvmjga atmdwnz dtug wg
omaga gthi gm oujjs gth iuwqa, unr gtwa omag dwqq lh uvvmjgwmnhr mn gth
luawa my gth ouj avuoh hnzuzhr, vusihng gm lh uqqmdhr ug gth jugh gtxa
rhghjiwnhr wn uimxnga gtug dwqq omkhj gth omag unr u jhuamnulqh vjmywg. Wy
u juwqdus wa nmg augwaywhr dwgt gth iunnhj wn dtwot gth rhvujgihng
uvvmjgwmna gth omag wn ywcwnz omivhnaugwmn, wg wa gm tukh gth jwztg, gwnrhj
gth nhd vqun, my uvvhuqwnz gm gth Wnghjagugh Omiihjoh Omiiwaawmn. Gtwa
yhugxjh my gth vjmvmahr qud dmxqr ahhi gm wnaxjh u yuwj gjhugihng my gth
juwqdusa. Wg wa tmvhr gtug Omnzjhaa dwqq zwkh gth iugghj wiihrwugh
ugghngwmn unr gtug gth ihgtmr my omivhnaugwmn jhomiihnrhr ls gth rhvujgihng
mj amih mgthj axwgulqh vqun dwqq lh vjmivgqs uxgtmjwfhr.

RHVUJGIHNG MY GTH WNGHJWMJ

Gth Wnghjwmj Rhvujgihng, wn gth vjmlqhia my uriwnwagjugwmn wnoqxrhr dwgtwn
wga bxjwarwogwmn, vjhahnga imjh rwyywoxqg pxhagwmna gtun uns mgthj. Gtwa
tua lhhn rxh vhjtuva gm ghivmjujs ouxaha my u vmqwgwouq otujuoghj, lxg imjh
havhowuqqs gm gth wnthjhng rwyywoxqgs wn gth vhjymjiunoh my amih my gth
yxnogwmna dtwot ujh uaawznhr gm wg. Wga otwhy rxgs wa gth zxujrwunatwv my
gth vxlqwo rmiuwn unr gth rwavmawgwmn my gtug rmiuwn gm vjwkugh mdnhjatwv
xnrhj tmihaghur, iwnwnz, unr mgthj quda, ls dtwot vughnga yjmi gth
Zmkhjnihng gm gth wnrwkwrxuq ujh uxgtmjwfhr mn ohjguwn omnrwgwmna. Rxjwnz
gth quag rhourh gth vxlqwo ahhihr gm lhomih axrrhnqs udujh gtug u khjs
qujzh vujg my wga rmiuwn tur vuaahr yjmi wga omngjmq wngm vjwkugh
mdnhjatwv, xnrhj quda nmg dhqq uruvghr gm imrhjn omnrwgwmna, unr uqam gtug
wn gth rmwnz my gtwa gth vjmkwawmna my hcwagwnz qud unr jhzxqugwmna urmvghr
wn uoomjrunoh dwgt qud tur nmg lhhn agjwogqs mlahjkhr, unr gtug wn gth
gjunayhj my gwgqh ixot yjuxr tur wnghjkhnhr, gm gth vhoxnwujs lhnhywg my
rwatmnhag vhjamna. Gthjh ujmah gthjhxvmn u rhiunr ymj omnahjkugwmn my gth
vxlqwo rmiuwn, wga vjmghogwmn uzuwnag yjuxrxqhng rwiwnxgwmn, unr gth
vjhahjkugwmn my gtug vujg my wg yjmi vjwkugh uopxwawgwmn dtwot wg ahhihr
nhohaaujs gm ehhv ymj yxgxjh vxlqwo xah. Gth imkhihng, hcohqqhng wn gth
wnghngwmn dtwot vjmivghr wg, unr xahyxq wn wga jhaxqga, tua nhkhjgthqhaa
tur amih lur hyyhoga, dtwot gth dhaghjn omxngjs tua jhohngqs lhhn yhhqwnz
unr wn jhavhog my dtwot gthjh wa runzhj my u jhuogwmn gmdujr mqrhj ulxaha
xnqhaa dh oun ugguwn gth zmqrhn ihun, dtwot omnawaga wn gth vjhkhngwmn my
gth ihjh hcvqmwgugwmn my gth vxlqwo rmiuwn ymj vjwkugh vxjvmaha dtwqh ug
gth auih, gwih yuowqwgugwnz wga rhkhqmvihng ymj gth lhnhywg my gth qmouq
vxlqwo.

Gth qunr quda nhhr omivqhgh jhkwawmn gm ahoxjh vjmvhj omnahjkugwmn mn gth
mnh tunr my qunr gtug mxztg gm lh ehvg wn vxlqwo xah unr, mn gth mgthj
tunr, vjmivg rwavmawgwmn my gtmah qunra dtwot mxztg gm lh rwavmahr wn
vjwkugh mdnhjatwv mj gxjnhr mkhj gm vjwkugh xah ls vjmvhjqs zxujrhr qhuaha.
Wn urrwgwmn gm gtwa gthjh ujh nmg hnmxzt myywowuqa wn mxj Qunr Rhvujgihng
dwgt qhzuq enmdqhrzh axyywowhng vjmivgqs gm iueh gth rhowawmna dtwot ujh
ouqqhr ymj. Gth dtmqh qunr-quda asaghi atmxqr lh jhmjzunwfhr, unr nmg xngwq
wg wa jhmjzunwfhr, dwqq rhowawmna lh iurh ua vjmivgqs ua gths mxztg, mj
dwqq ihn dtm tukh hujnhr gwgqh gm vxlqwo qunr xnrhj gth agugxgh jhohwkh
gthwj vughnga dwgtwn u jhuamnulqs atmjg vhjwmr. Gth vjhahng uriwnwagjugwmn
tua rmnh dtug wg omxqr wn gtwa jhzujr, lxg gth nhohaawgs ymj jhymji unr
otunzh ls u jhkwawmn my gth quda unr un wnojhuah unr jhmjzunwfugwmn my gth
ymjoh jhiuwna, unr W axliwg gm Omnzjhaa gth dwarmi my u yxqq hcuiwnugwmn my
gtwa axlbhog, wn mjrhj gtug u khjs qujzh unr wivmjgung vujg my mxj vhmvqh
wn gth Dhag ius lh jhqwhkhr yjmi u bxag ouxah my wjjwgugwmn.

W wnkwgh smxj ugghngwmn gm gth rwaoxaawmn ls gth Ahojhgujs my gth Wnghjwmj
my gth nhhr ymj qhzwaqugwmn dwgt jhavhog gm iwnwnz oquwia, qhuaha my omuq
qunra wn gtwa omxngjs unr wn Uquaeu, unr ymj awiwquj rwavmawgwmn my mwq,
vtmavtugh, unr vmguat qunra, unr uqam gm twa rwaoxaawmn my gth vjmvhj xah
gm lh iurh my dughj-vmdhj awgha thqr ls gth Zmkhjnihng. Iuns my gthah qunra
ujh nmd lhwnz dwgtthqr yjmi xah ls gth vxlqwo xnrhj gth zhnhjuq dwgtrjuduq
uog dtwot dua vuaahr ls gth quag Omnzjhaa. Gtug uog dua nmg ymj gth vxjvmah
my rwavmawnz my gth pxhagwmn, lxg wg dua ymj gth vxjvmah my vjhahjkwnz gth
qunra xngwq gth pxhagwmn omxqr lh amqkhr. W hujnhagqs xjzh gtug gth iugghj
wa my gth twzthag wivmjgunoh gm mxj dhaghjn yhqqmd owgwfhna unr mxztg gm
omiiunr gth wiihrwugh ugghngwmn my gth qhzwaqugwkh ljunot my gth
Zmkhjnihng.

Unmgthj yxnogwmn dtwot gth Wnghjwmj Rhvujgihng tua gm vhjymji wa gtug my
gth zxujrwunatwv my Wnrwuna. Wn avwgh my hkhjsgtwnz dtwot tua lhhn auwr wn
ojwgwowai my gth vmqwos my mxj Zmkhjnihng gmdujr gth Wnrwuna, gth uimxng my
dhuqgt dtwot wa nmd thqr ls wg ymj gthah dujra vhj ouvwgu atmda gtug gth
Zmkhjnihng tua lhhn zhnhjmxa; lxg gth iunuzhihng my am qujzh un hagugh,
dwgt gth zjhug kujwhgs my owjoxiagunoha gtug axjjmxnr huot gjwlh unr huot
ouah, ouqqa ymj gth hchjowah my gth twzthag lxawnhaa rwaojhgwmn, unr gth
iuotwnhjs vjmkwrhr wn gth Wnrwun Lxjhux ymj gth rwaotujzh my gtwa yxnogwmn
wa hngwjhqs wnurhpxugh. Gth vmawgwmn my Wnrwun omiiwaawmnhj rhiunra gth
hchjowah my lxawnhaa ulwqwgs my gth ywjag mjrhj, unr wg wa rwyywoxqg gm
ahoxjh axot guqhng ymj gth auqujs vjmkwrhr.

Gth omnrwgwmn my thuqgt my gth Wnrwun unr gth vjhkuqhnoh wn gth gjwlha my
oxjulqh rwahuaha tua lhhn hcvqmwghr jhohngqs wn gth vjhaa. Wn u ihaauzh gm
Omnzjhaa ug wga quag ahaawmn W ljmxztg gtwa axlbhog gm wga ugghngwmn unr
wnkwghr u avhowuq uvvjmvjwugwmn, wn mjrhj gtug mxj yuowqwgwha ymj
mkhjomiwnz rwahuaha uimnz gth Wnrwuna iwztg lh vjmvhjqs wnojhuahr, lxg nm
uogwmn dua gthn guehn ls Omnzjhaa mn gth axlbhog, nmj tua axot
uvvjmvjwugwmn lhhn iurh awnoh.

Gth omiiwaawmn uvvmwnghr ls uxgtmjwgs my gth Omnzjhaa gm jhvmjg mn vjmvhj
ihgtmr my ahoxjwnz juwqjmur rhkhqmvihng wn Uquaeu wa ymjixqugwnz wga
jhvmjg, unr W hcvhog gm tukh un mvvmjgxnwgs lhymjh gth hnr my gtwa ahaawmn
gm axliwg wga jhomiihnrugwmna.

RHVUJGIHNG MY UZJWOXQGXJH

Gth yuj-jhuotwnz xgwqwgs my gth hrxougwmnuq asaghi oujjwhr mn ls gth
Rhvujgihng my Uzjwoxqgxjh ymj gth lhnhywg my gth yujihja my mxj omxngjs
ouqqa ymj nm hqulmjugwmn. Huot shuj gthjh wa u zjmdgt wn gth kujwhgs my
yuoga dtwot wg ljwnza mxg ymj gth lhnhywg my gth yujihj, unr huot shuj
omnywjia gth dwarmi my gth hcvhnrwgxjh my gth uvvjmvjwugwmna iurh ymj gtug
rhvujgihng.

VXJH-YMMR QUD

Gth Rhvujgihng my Uzjwoxqgxjh wa otujzhr dwgt gth hchoxgwmn my gth
vxjh-ymmr qud. Gth vuaauzh my gtwa hnomxnghjhr ixot mvvmawgwmn yjmi
iunxyuogxjhja unr mgthja dtm yhujhr gth hyyhog xvmn gthwj lxawnhaa my gth
hnymjohihng my wga vjmkwawmna. Gth mvvmawgwmn ujmxahr gth bxag wnrwznugwmn
my gth vxlqwo, unr qhr gm un wnghnah asivugts dwgt gth ahkhjh unr jwzwr
hnymjohihng my gth vjmkwawmna my gth nhd qud. Wg tur gm rhuq wn iuns
wnagunoha dwgt gth pxhagwmn dthgthj mj nmg vjmrxoga my qujzh lxawnhaa
hnghjvjwaha, wn gth ymji my ymmr vjhvujugwmna, dhjh rhqhghjwmxa gm gth
vxlqwo thuqgt; unr dtwqh wn u zjhug iubmjwgs my wnagunoha gtwa waaxh dua
huawqs rhghjiwnulqh, gthjh dhjh nmg u yhd ouaha wn dtwot wg dua tujr gm
rjud gth qwnh lhgdhhn u xahyxq unr u tujiyxq ymmr vjhvujugwmn. Wn ouaha
qweh gtwa dthn u rhowawmn wnkmqkhr gth rhagjxogwmn my zjhug lxawnhaa
hnghjvjwaha jhvjhahngwnz gth wnkhagihng my qujzh ouvwguq unr gth
hcvhnrwgxjh my zjhug hnhjzs unr ulwqwgs, gth runzhj my ahjwmxa wnbxagwoh
dua khjs omnawrhjulqh wn gth hnymjohihng my u nhd qud xnrhj gth avxj my
zjhug vxlqwo wnrwznugwmn. Gth vxlqwo myywowuqa otujzhr dwgt hchoxgwnz gth
qud iwztg rm wnbxagwoh wn thughr omngjmkhjas gtjmxzt xnomnaowmxa vjwrh my
mvwnwmn unr mlagwnuos my omnoqxawmn. Ymj gtwa jhuamn Vjhawrhng Jmmahkhqg
yhqg bxagwywhr wn ojhugwnz u lmujr my hcvhjga, enmdn ua gth Jhiahn Lmujr,
gm dtmi wn ouaha my ixot wivmjgunoh un uvvhuq iwztg lh guehn unr u jhkwhd
tur my u rhowawmn my gth Lxjhux my Othiwagjs wn gth Uzjwoxqgxjuq
Rhvujgihng. W thujgwqs uzjhh gtug wg dua dwah gm ojhugh gtwa lmujr wn mjrhj
gtug wnbxagwoh iwztg nmg lh rmnh. Gth pxhagwmna dtwot ujwah ujh nmg
zhnhjuqqs gtmah wnkmqkwnz vuqvulqh wnbxjs gm thuqgt, lxg gths ujh xvmn gth
nujjmd unr rmxlgyxq qwnh wn jhavhog my dtwot wg wa lhgghj gm lh wn amih
hjjmj nmg runzhjmxa gtun gm lh jurwouqqs rhagjxogwkh. W gtwne gtug gth gwih
tua omih ymj Omnzjhaa gm jhomznwfh gth nhohaawgs ymj amih axot gjwlxnuq my
uvvhuq unr gm iueh avhowywo agugxgmjs vjmkwawmn ymj wg. Dtwqh dh ujh
agjxzzqwnz gm axvvjhaa un hkwq my zjhug vjmvmjgwmna qweh gtug my wivxjh
ymmr, dh ixag vjmkwrh iuotwnhjs wn gth qud wgahqy gm vjhkhng wga lhomiwnz
un wnagjxihng my mvvjhaawmn, unr dh mxztg gm hnulqh gtmah dtmah lxawnhaa wa
gtjhughnhr dwgt unnwtwqugwmn gm tukh amih gjwlxnuq unr amih ymji my uvvhuq
wn dtwot gths tukh u omivqhgh rus wn omxjg.

UZJWOXQGXJUQ OJHRWGA

W jhyhjjhr wn is ywjag ihaauzh gm gth pxhagwmn my wivjmkwnz gth asaghi my
uzjwoxqgxjuq ojhrwga. Gth Ahojhgujs my Uzjwoxqgxjh tua iurh un
wnkhagwzugwmn wngm gth iugghj my ojhrwga wn gtwa omxngjs, unr W omiihnr u
omnawrhjugwmn my gth wnymjiugwmn dtwot gtjmxzt twa uzhnga th tua lhhn ulqh
gm omqqhog. Wg rmha nmg wn uns dus iwnwiwfh gth wivmjgunoh my gth vjmvmauq,
lxg wg zwkha imjh uooxjugh wnymjiugwmn xvmn amih my gth vtuaha my gth
pxhagwmn gtun dh tukh thjhgmymjh tur.

RHVUJGIHNG MY OMIIHJOH UNR QULMJ

W omiihnr gm Omnzjhaa un hcuiwnugwmn my gth jhvmjg my gth Ahojhgujs my
Omiihjoh unr Qulmj, unr havhowuqqs gtug vujg wn dtwot th rwaoxaaha gth
myywoh my gth Lxjhux my Omjvmjugwmna, gth kuqxh gm omiihjoh my u vjmvmahr
gjurh omiiwaawmn, unr gth aghva dtwot th tua guehn gm ahoxjh gth
mjzunwfugwmn my u nugwmnuq otuilhj my omiihjoh. W thujgwqs omiihnr twa kwhd
gtug gth vqun my u gjurh omiiwaawmn dtwot qmmea gm gth ywcwnz my vjwoha wa
uqgmzhgthj wivjuogwouq unr mxztg nmg ymj u imihng gm lh omnawrhjhr ua u
vmaawlqh amqxgwmn my gth gjxag pxhagwmn.

Gth gjxag pxhagwmn wn gth hnymjohihng my gth Athjiun ungwgjxag qud wa
zjurxuqqs amqkwnz wgahqy, wa iuwnguwnwnz gth vjwnowvqh unr jhagmjwnz gth
vjuogwoh my omivhgwgwmn, unr wy gth qud wa pxwhgqs lxg ywjiqs hnymjohr,
lxawnhaa dwqq urbxag wgahqy gm gth agugxgmjs jhpxwjhihnga, unr gth xnjhag
wn omiihjowuq owjoqha vjmkmehr ls gth gjxag rwaoxaawmn dwqq rwauvvhuj.

VUNUIU-VUOWYWO WNGHJNUGWMNUQ HCVMAWGWMN

Wn omnymjiwgs dwgt u bmwng jhamqxgwmn my Omnzjhaa, un Hchoxgwkh
vjmoquiugwmn dua waaxhr quag Yhljxujs, wnkwgwnz gth nugwmna my gth dmjqr gm
vujgwowvugh wn gth Vunuiu-Vuowywo Wnghjnugwmnuq Hcvmawgwmn gm lh thqr ug
Aun Yjunowaom gm ohqhljugh gth omnagjxogwmn my gth Vunuiu, Ounuq. U
asivugthgwo jhavmnah dua wiihrwughqs ymjgtomiwnz, unr ahkhjuq nugwmna tukh
uqjhurs ahqhoghr gth awgha ymj gthwj lxwqrwnza. Wn yxjgthjunoh my is
wnkwgugwmn, u avhowuq omiiwaawmn kwawghr Hxjmvhun omxngjwha rxjwnz gth vuag
axiihj, unr jhohwkhr uaaxjunoh my thujgs ommvhjugwmn wn gth guae my
ljwnzwnz gmzhgthj u xnwkhjauq wnrxagjwuq, iwqwgujs, unr nukuq rwavqus mn un
xnvjhohrhnghr aouqh. Wg wa hkwrhng gtug gth hcvmawgwmn dwqq lh un uooxjugh
iwjjmj my gth dmjqr'a uogwkwgwha ua gths uvvhuj 400 shuja uyghj gth rugh my
gth rwaomkhjs my gth Vuowywo Mohun.

Wg wa gth rxgs my gth Xnwghr Agugha gm iueh gth nugwmna dhqomih ug Aun
Yjunowaom unr gm yuowqwgugh axot uopxuwngunoh lhgdhhn gthi unr mxjahqkha ua
dwqq vjmimgh gth hcvunawmn my omiihjoh unr yuiwqwujwfh gth dmjqr dwgt gth
nhd gjurh jmxgh gtjmxzt gth Vunuiu Ounuq. Gth uogwmn my gth Agugh
zmkhjnihnga unr wnrwkwrxuqa uaaxjha u omivjhthnawkh hctwlwg my gth
jhamxjoha my gtwa omxngjs unr my gth vjmzjhaa my gth vhmvqh. Gtwa
vujgwowvugwmn ls Agugh unr wnrwkwrxuqa atmxqr lh axvvqhihnghr ls un
urhpxugh atmdwnz my gth kujwhr unr xnwpxh uogwkwgwha my gth Nugwmnuq
Zmkhjnihng. Gth Xnwghr Agugha oun nmg dwgt zmmr zjuoh wnkwgh ymjhwzn
zmkhjnihnga gm hjhog lxwqrwnza unr iueh hcvhnawkh hctwlwga dtwqh wgahqy
jhyxawnz gm vujgwowvugh. Nmj dmxqr wg lh dwah gm ymjhzm gth mvvmjgxnwgs gm
bmwn dwgt mgthj nugwmna wn gth wnavwjwnz wnghjotunzh my wrhua ghnrwnz gm
vjmimgh wnghjomxjah, yjwhnratwv, unr omiihjoh. Wg wa gth rxgs my gth
Zmkhjnihng gm ymaghj unr lxwqr xv omiihjoh gtjmxzt gth ounuq, bxag ua wg
dua gth rxgs my gth Zmkhjnihng gm omnagjxog wg.

W hujnhagqs jhomiihnr gth uvvjmvjwugwmn ug gtwa ahaawmn my axot u axi ua
dwqq hnulqh gth Xnwghr Agugha gm omnagjxog u axwgulqh lxwqrwnz, wnaguqq u
zmkhjnihnguq hctwlwg, unr mgthjdwah vujgwowvugh wn gth Vunuiu-Vuowywo
Wnghjnugwmnuq Hcvmawgwmn wn u iunnhj omiihnaxjugh dwgt gth rwznwgs my u
nugwmn dtmah zxhaga ujh gm lh gth vhmvqh my gth dmjqr. W jhomiihnr uqam
axot qhzwaqugwmn ua dwqq yuowqwgugh gth hngjs my iughjwuq wnghnrhr ymj
hctwlwgwmn unr vjmghog ymjhwzn hctwlwgmja uzuwnag wnyjwnzhihng my vughnga
unr gth xnuxgtmjwfhr omvswnz my vugghjna unr rhawzna. Uqq uqwhna ahng gm
Aun Yjunowaom gm omnagjxog unr oujh ymj ymjhwzn lxwqrwnza unr hctwlwga
atmxqr lh uriwgghr dwgtmxg jhagjuwng mj hilujjuaaihng.

GTH RWAGJWOG MY OMQXILWU UNR GTH OWGS MY DUATWNZGMN

Gth owgs my Duatwnzgmn wa u lhuxgwyxq owgs, dwgt u vmvxqugwmn my 352,936,
my dtmi 98,667 ujh omqmjhr. Gth unnxuq ixnwowvuq lxrzhg wa ulmxg
$14,000,000. Gth vjhahnoh my gth Nugwmnuq Ouvwguq unr mgthj zmkhjnihnguq
agjxogxjha omnagwgxgha gth otwhy lhuxgs unr wnghjhag my gth owgs. Gth
vxlqwo zjmxnra ujh hcghnawkh, unr gth mvvmjgxnwgwha ymj wivjmkwnz gth owgs
unr iuewnz wg agwqq imjh uggjuogwkh ujh khjs zjhug. Xnrhj u vqun urmvghr
amih shuja uzm, mnh tuqy gth omag my jxnnwnz gth owgs wa vuwr ls gucugwmn
xvmn gth vjmvhjgs, jhuq unr vhjamnuq, my gth owgwfhna unr jhawrhnga, unr
gth mgthj tuqy wa lmjnh ls gth Zhnhjuq Zmkhjnihng. Gth owgs wa hcvunrwnz ug
u jhiujeulqh jugh, unr gtwa oun mnqs lh uoomxnghr ymj ls gth omiwnz thjh
yjmi mgthj vujga my gth omxngjs my dhqq-gm-rm vhmvqh dtm, tukwnz ywnwathr
gthwj lxawnhaa oujhhja hqahdthjh, lxwqr unr iueh gtwa gthwj vhjiunhng vquoh
my jhawrhnoh.

Mn gth dtmqh, gth owgs ua u ixnwowvuqwgs wa khjs dhqq zmkhjnhr. Wg wa dhqq
qwztghr, gth dughj axvvqs wa zmmr, gth agjhhga ujh dhqq vukhr, gth vmqwoh
ymjoh wa dhqq rwaowvqwnhr, ojwih wa nmg yquzjung, unr dtwqh wg tua vxjqwhxa
unr ohnghja my kwoh, qweh mgthj qujzh owgwha, gths ujh nmg hcvqmwghr, gths
rm nmg hchjowah uns wnyqxhnoh mj omngjmq wn gth zmkhjnihng my gth owgs, unr
gths ujh axvvjhaahr wn ua yuj ua wg tua lhhn ymxnr vjuogwoulqh. Ixnwowvuq
zjuyg wa wnomnawrhjulqh. Gthjh ujh wnghjwmj omxjga wn gth owgs gtug ujh
nmwamih unr ohnghja my rwahuah unr gth jhyxzh my ojwiwnuqa, lxg Omnzjhaa
tua lhzxn gm oqhun gthah mxg, unr vjmzjhaa tua lhhn iurh wn gth ouah my gth
imag nmgmjwmxa my gthah, dtwot wa enmdn ua "Dwqqmd Gjhh Uqqhs." Gtwa
imkhihng atmxqr omngwnxh.

Gth imjguqwgs ymj gth vuag shuj dua ug gth jugh My 17.80 vhj 1,000 my lmgt
juoha; uimnz gth dtwgha wg dua 14.61 vhj gtmxaunr, unr uimnz gth lquoea
26.12 vhj gtmxaunr. Gthah ujh gth qmdhag imjguqwgs jugha hkhj jhomjrhr wn
gth Rwagjwog.

Mnh my gth imag ojswnz nhhra wn gth zmkhjnihng my gth Rwagjwog wa u
gjwlxnuq mj vxlqwo uxgtmjwgs ymj gth vxjvmah my axvhjkwawnz gth
omjvmjugwmna hnzuzhr wn gth mvhjugwmn my vxlqwo xgwqwgwha. Axot u lwqq wa
vhnrwnz wn Omnzjhaa unr mxztg gm vuaa. Duatwnzgmn atmxqr atmd wgahqy xnrhj
gth rwjhogwmn my Omnzjhaa gm lh u owgs dwgt u imrhq ymji my zmkhjnihng, lxg
ua qmnz ua axot uxgtmjwgs mkhj vxlqwo xgwqwgwha wa dwgtthqr yjmi gth
ixnwowvuq zmkhjnihng, wg ixag uqdusa lh rhyhogwkh.

Dwgtmxg xnrxh ojwgwowai my gth vjhahng agjhhg juwqdus uoomiimrugwmna, wg
oun lh gjxqs auwr gtug xnrhj gth avxj my u vxlqwo xgwqwgwha omiiwaawmn gths
iwztg lh axlagungwuqqs wivjmkhr.

Dtwqh gth aotmmq asaghi my Duatwnzgmn vhjtuva iwztg lh lhgghjhr wn gth
homnmis my wga iunuzhihng unr gth rwagjwlxgwmn my wga lxwqrwnza, wga
xahyxqnhaa tua nhkhjgthqhaa zjhugqs wnojhuahr wn jhohng shuja, unr wg nmd
myyhja hcohqqhng yuowqwgwha ymj vjwiujs unr ahomnrujs hrxougwmn.

Yjmi gwih gm gwih gthjh wa omnawrhjulqh uzwgugwmn wn Duatwnzgmn wn yukmj my
zjungwnz gth owgwfhna my gth owgs gth yjunotwah unr omnagwgxgwnz un
hqhogwkh zmkhjnihng. W ui agjmnzqs mvvmahr gm gtwa otunzh. Gth twagmjs my
Duatwnzgmn rwaoqmaha u nxilhj my hcvhjwihnga my gtwa ewnr, dtwot tukh
uqdusa lhhn ulunrmnhr ua xnaugwayuogmjs. Gth gjxgt wa gtwa wa u owgs
zmkhjnhr ls u vmvxquj lmrs, gm dwg, gth Omnzjhaa my gth Xnwghr Agugha,
ahqhoghr yjmi gth vhmvqh my gth Xnwghr Agugha, dtm mdn Duatwnzgmn. Gth
vhmvqh dtm omih thjh gm qwkh rm am dwgt gth enmdqhrzh my gth mjwzwn my gth
owgs unr gth jhagjwogwmna, unr gthjhymjh kmqxngujwqs zwkh xv gth vjwkwqhzh
my qwkwnz wn u ixnwowvuqwgs zmkhjnhr ls vmvxquj kmgh. Duatwnzgmn wa am
xnwpxh wn wga mjwzwn unr wn wga xah ymj tmxawnz unr qmouqwfwnz gth
amkhjhwzngs my gth Nugwmn gtug gth vhmvqh dtm qwkh thjh ixag jhzujr wga
vhoxqwuj otujuoghj unr ixag lh omnghng gm axlbhog gthiahqkha gm gth omngjmq
my u lmrs ahqhoghr ls uqq gth vhmvqh my gth Nugwmn. W uzjhh gtug gthjh ujh
ohjguwn wnomnkhnwhnoha zjmdwnz mxg my gth zmkhjnihng my u owgs ls u
nugwmnuq qhzwaqugxjh qweh Omnzjhaa, unr wg dmxqr vhjtuva lh vmaawlqh gm
qhaahn gthah ls gth rhqhzugwmn ls Omnzjhaa gm gth Rwagjwog Omiiwaawmnhja my
zjhughj qhzwaqugwkh vmdhj ymj gth hnuogihng my qmouq quda gtun gths nmd
vmaahaa, havhowuqqs gtmah my u vmqwoh otujuoghj.

Hkhjs qmsuq Uihjwoun tua u vhjamnuq vjwrh wn gth lhuxgs my Duatwnzgmn unr
wn wga rhkhqmvihng unr zjmdgt. Gthjh wa nm mnh dwgt u vjmvhj uvvjhowugwmn
my mxj Ouvwguq Owgs dtm dmxqr yukmj u nwzzujrqs vmqwos wn jhavhog gm
hcvhnrwgxjha yjmi gth Nugwmnuq Gjhuaxjs gm urr gm gth uggjuogwkhnhaa my
gtwa owgs, dtwot lhqmnza gm hkhjs owgwfhn my gth hngwjh omxngjs, unr dtwot
nm owgwfhn kwawga dwgtmxg u ahnah my vjwrh my mdnhjatwv. Dh tukh tur
jhagmjhr ls u Omiiwaawmn my Ywnh Ujga, ug gth wnagunoh my u omiiwgghh my
gth Ahnugh, gth mjwzwnuq vqun my gth Yjhnot hnzwnhhj Q'Hnyung ymj gth owgs
my Duatwnzgmn, unr dh enmd dwgt zjhug ohjguwngs gth omxjah dtwot gth
wivjmkhihng my Duatwnzgmn atmxqr gueh. Dts atmxqr gthjh lh rhqus wn iuewnz
gtwa wivjmkhihng wn am yuj ua wg wnkmqkha gth hcghnawmn my gth vujewnz
asaghi unr gth omnagjxogwmn my zjhugqs nhhrhr vxlqwo lxwqrwnza?
Uvvjmvjwugh lxwqrwnza ymj gth Agugh Rhvujgihng, gth Rhvujgihng my bxagwoh,
unr gth Rhvujgihng my Omiihjoh unr Qulmj tukh lhhn vjmbhoghr, vquna tukh
lhhn uvvjmkhr, unr nmgtwnz wa dungwnz lxg gth uvvjmvjwugwmna ymj gth
lhzwnnwnz unr omivqhgwmn my gth agjxogxjha. U tuqq my ujotwkha wa uqam
lurqs nhhrhr, lxg nmgtwnz tua lhhn rmnh gmdujr wga omnagjxogwmn, uqgtmxzt
gth qunr ymj wg tua qmnz lhhn lmxztg unr vuwr ymj. Vquna tukh lhhn iurh ymj
gth xnwmn my Vmgmiuo Vuje dwgt gth kuqqhs my Jmoe Ojhhe unr Jmoe Ojhhe
Vuje, unr gth nhohaawgs ymj gth omnnhogwmn lhgdhhn gth Amqrwhja' Tmih unr
Jmoe Ojhhe Vuje ouqqa ymj nm omiihng. W uae uzuwn dts gthjh atmxqr lh rhqus
wn oujjswnz mxg gthah vquna Dh tukh gth imnhs wn gth Gjhuaxjs, gth vquna
ujh nugwmnuq wn gthwj aomvh, unr gth wivjmkhihng atmxqr lh gjhughr ua u
nugwmnuq vjmbhog. Gth vqun dwqq ywnr u thujgs uvvjmkuq gtjmxztmxg gth
omxngjs. W ui pxwgh axjh, yjmi gth wnymjiugwmn dtwot W tukh, gtug, ug
omivujugwkhqs aiuqq hcvhnah, yjmi gtug vujg my gth Rwagjwog my Omqxilwu
dtwot dua jhgjmohrhr gm Kwjzwnwu, gth vmjgwmn wnoqxrwnz gth Ujqwnzgmn
hagugh, Ymjg Ishj, unr gth vuqwaurha my gth Vmgmiuo oun lh uopxwjhr ls
vxjotuah unr gth bxjwarwogwmn my gth Agugh my Kwjzwnwu mkhj gtwa qunr ohrhr
gm gth Nugwmn. Gtwa mxztg gm lh rmnh.

Gth omnagjxogwmn my gth Qwnomqn Ihimjwuq unr my u ihimjwuq ljwrzh yjmi gth
luah my gth Qwnomqn Imnxihng gm Ujqwnzgmn dmxqr lh un uvvjmvjwugh unr
asilmqwo hcvjhaawmn my gth xnwmn my gth Nmjgt unr gth Amxgt ug gth Ouvwguq
my gth Nugwmn. W xjzh xvmn Omnzjhaa gth uvvmwngihng my u omiiwaawmn gm
xnrhjgueh gthah nugwmnuq wivjmkhihnga, unr gm axliwg u vqun ymj gthwj
hchoxgwmn; unr dthn gth vqun tua lhhn axliwgghr unr uvvjmkhr, unr gth dmje
oujjwhr mxg, Duatwnzgmn dwqq jhuqqs lhomih dtug wg mxztg gm lh--gth imag
lhuxgwyxq owgs wn gth dmjqr.