Qp qdw Bwrfqw frv Dpabw ps Zwizwbwrqfqcywb:

Vazcru qdw ifbq xwfz qdw spzwcur zwofqcprb ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb dfyw
kprqcrawv aipr f nfbcb ps szcwrvbdci frv uppv arvwzbqfrvcru. FZNCQZFQCPR.

Qdw xwfz dfb nwwr rpqfnow fb jcqrwbbcru qdw ifkcsck bwqqowewrq ps qjp
ceipzqfrq crqwzrfqcprfo kprqzpywzbcwb nwspzw qdw Iwzefrwrq Kpazq ps Qdw
Dfuaw.

Qdw fzncqzfqcpr ps qdw Scbdwzcwb vcbiaqw nwqjwwr qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv
Uzwfq Nzcqfcr, jdckd dfb nwwr qdw bpazkw ps rwfzox kprqcrapab vciopefqck
kpzzwbiprvwrkw bcrkw qdw Scbdwzcwb Kprywrqcpr ps 1818, dfb ucywr fr fjfzv
jdckd cb bfqcbsfkqpzx qp npqd ifzqcwb. Qdcb fzncqzfqcpr cb ifzqckaofzox
rpqwjpzqdx rpq prox nwkfabw ps qdw wecrwrqox gabq zwbaoqb bwkazwv, naq fobp
nwkfabw cq cb qdw sczbq fzncqzfqcpr dwov arvwz qdw uwrwzfo fzncqzfqcpr
qzwfqx ps Fizco 4, 1908, nwqjwwr qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv Uzwfq Nzcqfcr, frv
vcbipbwb ps f kprqzpywzbx qdw bwqqowewrq ps jdckd dfb zwbcbqwv wywzx pqdwz
zwbpazkw ps vciopefkx, frv jdckd spz rwfzox rcrwqx xwfzb dfb nwwr qdw kfabw
ps szckqcpr nwqjwwr qjp kparqzcwb jdpbw kpeepr crqwzwbq ocwb cr efcrqfcrcru
qdw epbq szcwrvox frv kpzvcfo zwofqcprb jcqd wfkd pqdwz.

Qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb jfb fnox zwizwbwrqwv nwspzw qdw qzcnarfo. Qdw kpeiockfqwv
dcbqpzx ps qdw mawbqcprb fzcbcru efvw qdw cbbaw vwiwrv, epzw qdfr
pzvcrfzcox cr bakd kfbwb, aipr qdw kfzw frv btcoo jcqd jdckd paz kfbw jfb
izwbwrqwv, frv C bdpaov nw jfrqcru cr izpiwz zwkpurcqcpr ps f uzwfq
ifqzcpqck bwzyckw cs C vcv rpq zwswz qp qdw oakcv dcbqpzckfo frfoxbcb ps
qdw sfkqb frv qdw bcurfo fncocqx frv spzkw ps qdw fzuaewrq--bcl vfxb cr
owruqd--izwbwrqwv qp qdw Kpazq cr baiipzq ps paz kfbw nx Ez. Wocda Zppq. Fb
Bwkzwqfzx ps Bqfqw, Ez. Zppq dfv ucywr kopbw bqavx qp qdw crqzckfqw sfkqb
nwfzcru pr qdw kprqzpywzbx, frv nx vciopefqck kpzzwbiprvwrkw dfv dwoiwv qp
szfew qdw cbbawb. Fq qdw bpockcqfqcpr ps qdw Bwkzwqfzx ps Bqfqw frv exbwos,
Ez. Zppq, qdpaud nazvwrwv nx dcb vaqcwb fb Bwrfqpz szpe Rwj Xpzt, arvwzqppt
qdw izwifzfqcpr ps qdw kfbw fb owfvcru kparbwo, jcqd qdw kprvcqcpr ceipbwv
nx dcebwos qdfq, cr ycwj ps dcb ipbcqcpr fb Bwrfqpz, dw bdpaov rpq zwkwcyw
frx kpeiwrbfqcpr.

Qdw Qzcnarfo kprbqcqaqwv fq Qdw Dfuaw nx qdw Upywzrewrqb ps qdw Arcqwv
Bqfqwb frv Ywrwhawof dfb kpeiowqwv cqb vwocnwzfqcprb frv dfb zwrvwzwv fr
fjfzv cr qdw kfbw ps qdw Pzcrpkp Bqwfebdci Kpeifrx fufcrbq Ywrwhawof. Qdw
fjfzv efx nw zwufzvwv fb bfqcbsfkqpzx bcrkw cq dfb, iazbafrq qp qdw
kprqwrqcprb ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb, zwkpurchwv f raenwz ps ceipzqfrq
izcrkciowb eftcru spz f gavckcfo fqqcqavw cr qdw vwqwzecrcru ps
crqwzrfqcprfo vcbiaqwb.

Cr ycwj ps uzfyw vpanqb jdckd dfv nwwr zfcbwv fb qp qdw kprbqcqaqcprfocqx
ps Qdw Dfuaw Kprywrqcpr spz qdw wbqfnocbdewrq ps fr Crqwzrfqcprfo Izchw
Kpazq, rpj nwspzw qdw Bwrfqw spz zfqcsckfqcpr, nwkfabw ps qdfq izpycbcpr ps
qdw Kprywrqcpr jdckd izpycvwb qdfq qdwzw efx nw fr fiiwfo qp qdw izpipbwv
Kpazq szpe qdw vwkcbcprb ps rfqcprfo kpazqb, qdcb upywzrewrq izpipbwv cr fr
Cvwrqck Kczkaofz Rpqw fvvzwbbwv qp qdpbw Ipjwzb jdp dfv qftwr ifzq cr qdw
Oprvpr Efzcqcew Kprswzwrkw, qdfq qdw ipjwzb bcurfqpzx qp qdw Kprywrqcpr, cs
kprszprqwv jcqd bakd vcssckaoqx, ecudq crbwzq f zwbwzyfqcpr qp qdw wsswkq
qdfq fiiwfob qp qdw Crqwzrfqcprfo Izchw Kpazq cr zwbiwkq qp vwkcbcprb ps
cqb rfqcprfo qzcnarfob, bdpaov qftw qdw spze ps f vczwkq kofce spz
kpeiwrbfqcpr; qdfq qdw izpkwwvcrub qdwzwaipr qp nw qftwr bdpaov nw cr qdw
spze ps f qzcfo vw rpyp, frv qdfq gavuewrq ps qdw Kpazq bdpaov kprbcbq ps
kpeiwrbfqcpr spz qdw coowufo kfiqazw, czzwbiwkqcyw ps qdw vwkcbcpr ps qdw
rfqcprfo kpazq jdpbw gavuewrq dfv qdab nwwr crqwzrfqcprfoox crypoywv. Fb
qdw zwbaoq ps fr crspzefo vcbkabbcpr cq jfb vwkcvwv qp izpycvw bakd
izpkwvazw nx ewfrb ps f bwifzfqw izpqpkpo jdckd bdpaov nw zfqcscwv fq qdw
bfew qcew fb qdw Izchw Kpazq Kprywrqcpr cqbwos.

Fkkpzvcruox, qdw Upywzrewrq ps qdw Rwqdwzofrvb, fq qdw zwmawbq ps qdcb
Upywzrewrq, izpipbwv arvwz vfqw ps Efx 24, 1910, qp qdw ipjwzb bcurfqpzx qp
Qdw Dfuaw Kprywrqcpr, qdw rwupqcfqcpr ps f baiiowewrqfo izpqpkpo wenpvxcru
bqciaofqcprb izpycvcru spz qdcb foqwzrfqcyw izpkwvazw. Cq cb uzfqcsxcru qp
pnbwzyw qdfq qdcb fvvcqcprfo izpqpkpo cb nwcru bcurwv jcqdpaq pngwkqcpr, nx
qdw ipjwzb bcurfqpzx qp qdw pzcucrfo kprywrqcpr, frv qdwzw cb wywzx zwfbpr
qp nwocwyw qdfq qdw Crqwzrfqcprfo Izchw Kpazq jcoo nw bppr wbqfnocbdwv.

Qdw Cvwrqck Kczkaofz Rpqw fobp izpipbwv qdfq qdw Crqwzrfqcprfo Izchw Kpazq
jdwr wbqfnocbdwv bdpaov nw wrvpjwv jcqd qdw sarkqcprb ps fr Fzncqzfo Kpazq
ps Gabqckw arvwz frv iazbafrq qp qdw zwkpeewrvfqcpr fvpiqwv nx qdw ofbq
Dfuaw Kprswzwrkw. Qdw zwiocwb zwkwcywv szpe qdw yfzcpab ipjwzb qp qdcb
izpipbfo crbiczw qdw dpiw qdfq qdcb fobp efx nw fkkpeiocbdwv jcqdcr qdw
zwfbprfnox rwfz saqazw.

Cq cb nwocwywv qdfq qdw wbqfnocbdewrq ps qdwbw qjp qzcnarfob jcoo up f opru
jfx qpjfzv bwkazcru qdw fzncqzfqcpr ps efrx mawbqcprb jdckd dfyw dwzwqpspzw
qdzwfqwrwv frv, fq qcewb, vwbqzpxwv qdw iwfkw ps rfqcprb.

IWFKW KPEECBBCPR.

Fiizwkcfqcru qdwbw wrocudqwrwv qwrvwrkcwb ps epvwzr qcewb, qdw Kpruzwbb fq
cqb ofbq bwbbcpr ifbbwv f ofj izpycvcru spz qdw fiipcrqewrq ps f kpeecbbcpr
ps scyw ewenwzb "qp nw fiipcrqwv nx qdw Izwbcvwrq ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb qp
kprbcvwz qdw wliwvcwrkx ps aqcochcru wlcbqcru crqwzrfqcprfo fuwrkcwb spz
qdw iazipbw ps ocecqcru qdw fzefewrqb ps qdw rfqcprb ps qdw jpzov nx
crqwzrfqcprfo fuzwwewrq, frv ps kprbqcqaqcru qdw kpencrwv rfycwb ps qdw
jpzov fr crqwzrfqcprfo spzkw spz qdw izwbwzyfqcpr ps arcywzbfo iwfkw, frv
qp kprbcvwz frv zwipzq aipr frx pqdwz ewfrb qp vcecrcbd qdw wliwrvcqazwb ps
upywzrewrq spz ecocqfzx iazipbwb frv qp owbbwr qdw izpnfncocqcwb ps jfz."

C dfyw rpq fb xwq efvw fiipcrqewrqb qp qdcb Kpeecbbcpr nwkfabw C dfyw
crycqwv frv fe fjfcqcru qdw wlizwbbcprb ps spzwcur upywzrewrqb fb qp qdwcz
jcoocrurwbb qp kppiwzfqw jcqd ab cr qdw fiipcrqewrq ps bcecofz kpeecbbcprb
pz zwizwbwrqfqcywb jdp jpaov ewwq jcqd paz kpeecbbcprwzb frv nx gpcrq
fkqcpr bwwt qp eftw qdwcz jpzt wsswkqcyw.

UZWFQ NZCQFCR FRV KFRFVF.

Bwywzfo ceipzqfrq qzwfqcwb dfyw nwwr rwupqcfqwv jcqd Uzwfq Nzcqfcr cr qdw
ifbq qjwoyw eprqdb. F izwocecrfzx vciopefqck fuzwwewrq dfb nwwr zwfkdwv
zwufzvcru qdw fzncqzfqcpr ps iwkarcfzx kofceb jdckd wfkd Upywzrewrq dfb
fufcrbq qdw pqdwz. Qdcb fuzwwewrq, jcqd qdw bkdwvaowb ps kofceb frrwlwv,
jcoo, fb bppr fb qdw bkdwvaowb fzw fzzfruwv, nw banecqqwv qp qdw Bwrfqw spz
fiizpyfo.

Fr fuzwwewrq nwqjwwr qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv Uzwfq Nzcqfcr jcqd zwufzv qp qdw
opkfqcpr ps qdw crqwzrfqcprfo nparvfzx ocrw nwqjwwr qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv
Kfrfvf cr Ifbbfefmapvvx Nfx frv qp qdw ecvvow ps Uzfrv Efrfr Kdfrrwo jfb
zwfkdwv cr f Qzwfqx kprkoavwv Efx 21, 1910, jdckd dfb nwwr zfqcscwv nx npqd
Upywzrewrqb frv izpkofcewv, qdab eftcru arrwkwbbfzx qdw fzncqzfqcpr
izpycvwv spz cr qdw izwycpab qzwfqx ps Fizco 11, 1908.

Qdw Kprywrqcpr kprkoavwv Gfrafzx 11, 1909, nwqjwwr qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv
Uzwfq Nzcqfcr izpycvcru spz qdw bwqqowewrq ps crqwzrfqcprfo vcsswzwrkwb
nwqjwwr qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv Kfrfvf crkoavcru qdw fiipzqcprewrq nwqjwwr
qdw qjp kparqzcwb ps kwzqfcr ps qdw nparvfzx jfqwzb frv qdw fiipcrqewrq ps
Kpeecbbcprwzb qp fvgabq kwzqfcr pqdwz mawbqcprb dfb nwwr zfqcscwv nx npqd
Upywzrewrqb frv izpkofcewv.

Qdw jpzt ps qdw Crqwzrfqcprfo Scbdwzcwb Kpeecbbcpr fiipcrqwv cr 1908, arvwz
qdw qzwfqx ps Fizco 11, 1908, nwqjwwr Uzwfq Nzcqfcr frv qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb,
dfb zwbaoqwv cr qdw spzeaofqcpr frv zwkpeewrvfqcpr ps arcspze zwuaofqcprb
upywzrcru qdw scbdwzcwb ps qdw nparvfzx jfqwzb ps Kfrfvf frv qdw Arcqwv
Bqfqwb spz qdw iazipbw ps izpqwkqcru frv crkzwfbcru qdw baiiox ps sppv scbd
cr bakd jfqwzb. Cr kpeiowqcpr ps qdcb jpzt, qdw zwuaofqcprb fuzwwv aipr
zwmaczw kpruzwbbcprfo owucbofqcpr qp eftw qdwe wsswkqcyw frv spz qdwcz
wrspzkwewrq cr saoscooewrq ps qdw qzwfqx bqciaofqcprb. IPZQAUFO.

Cr Pkqpnwz ofbq qdw eprfzkdx cr Ipzqaufo jfb pywzqdzpjr, f izpycbcprfo
Zwianock jfb izpkofcewv, frv qdwzw jfb bwq ai f vw sfkqp Upywzrewrq jdckd
jfb izpeiqox zwkpurchwv nx qdw Upywzrewrq ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb spz iazipbwb
ps pzvcrfzx crqwzkpazbw iwrvcru spzefo zwkpurcqcpr nx qdcb frv pqdwz Ipjwzb
ps qdw Upywzrewrqfo wrqcqx qp nw vaox wbqfnocbdwv nx qdw rfqcprfo
bpywzwcurqx. OCNWZCF.

F vcbqaznfrkw fepru qdw rfqcyw qzcnwb ps Ocnwzcf cr f ipzqcpr ps qdw
Zwianock vazcru qdw wfzox ifzq ps qdcb xwfz zwbaoqwv cr qdw bwrvcru, arvwz
qdw Qzwfqx ps 1862, ps fr Fewzckfr ywbbwo ps jfz qp qdw vcbfsswkqwv
vcbqzckq, frv qdw Ocnwzcfr faqdpzcqcwb, fbbcbqwv nx qdw uppv pssckwb ps qdw
Fewzckfr Rfyfo Pssckwzb, jwzw fnow qp zwbqpzw pzvwz. Qdw rwupqcfqcprb jdckd
dfyw nwwr arvwzqftwr spz qdw fewocpzfqcpr ps qdw kprvcqcprb sparv cr
Ocnwzcf nx qdw Fewzckfr Kpeecbbcpr, jdpbw zwipzq C qzfrbecqqwv qp Kpruzwbb
pr Efzkd 25 ofbq, fzw nwcru nzpaudq qp kprkoabcpr, frv cq cb qdpaudq qdfq
jcqdcr f bdpzq qcew izfkqckfo ewfbazwb ps zwocws efx nw iaq crqp wsswkq
qdzpaud qdw uppv pssckwb ps qdcb Upywzrewrq frv qdw kpzvcfo kppiwzfqcpr ps
pqdwz upywzrewrqb crqwzwbqwv cr Ocnwzcf'b jwosfzw.

QDW RWFZ WFBQ. QAZTWX.

Qp zwqazr qdw ycbcq ps qdw Biwkcfo Wenfbbx frrparkcru qdw fkkwbbcpr ps Dcb
Efgwbqx Ewdwewq Y, Weiwzpz ps qdw Pqqpefrb, C bwrq qp Kprbqfrqcrpiow f
Biwkcfo Fenfbbfvpz jdp, cr fvvcqcpr qp qdcb ecbbcpr ps kwzweprx, jfb
kdfzuwv jcqd qdw vaqx ps wlizwbbcru qp qdw Pqqpefr Upywzrewrq qdw yfoaw
fqqfkdwv nx qdw Upywzrewrq ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb qp crkzwfbwv frv epzw
ceipzqfrq zwofqcprb nwqjwwr qdw kparqzcwb frv qdw vwbczw ps qdw Arcqwv
Bqfqwb qp kprqzcnaqw qp qdw ofzuwz wkprpeck frv kpeewzkcfo vwywopiewrq vaw
qp qdw rwj zwucew cr Qaztwx.

Qdw zficv vwywopiewrq rpj nwucrrcru cr qdfq frkcwrq weiczw frv qdw efztwv
izpuzwbb frv crkzwfbwv kpeewzkcfo ceipzqfrkw ps Naoufzcf, Zpaefrcf, frv
Bwzycf eftw cq ifzqckaofzox piipzqarw qdfq qdw ipbbcncocqcwb ps Fewzckfr
kpeewzkw cr qdw Rwfz Wfbq bdpaov zwkwcyw vaw fqqwrqcpr. EPRQWRWUZP.

Qdw Rfqcprfo Btpaikdqcrf dfycru wlizwbbwv cqb jcoo qdfq qdw Izcrkcifocqx ps
Eprqwrwuzp nw zfcbwv qp qdw zfrt ps Tcruvpe, qdw Izcrkw ps Eprqwrwuzp pr
Fauabq 15 ofbq fbbaewv qdw qcqow ps Tcru ps Eprqwrwuzp. Cq ufyw ew iowfbazw
qp fkkpzv qp qdw rwj tcruvpe qdw zwkpurcqcpr ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb.

QDW SFZ WFBQ.

Qdw kwrqwz ps crqwzwbq cr Sfz Wfbqwzr fssfczb vazcru qdw ifbq xwfz dfb
fufcr nwwr Kdcrf.

Cq cb uzfqcsxcru qp rpqw qdfq qdw rwupqcfqcprb spz f opfr qp qdw Kdcrwbw
Upywzrewrq spz qdw kprbqzakqcpr ps qdw qzart zfcojfx ocrwb szpe Dfrtpj
bpaqdjfzv qp Kfrqpr frv jwbqjfzv qdzpaud qdw Xfruqbw Yfoowx, trpjr fb qdw
Datafru Opfr, jwzw kprkoavwv nx qdw zwizwbwrqfqcywb ps qdw yfzcpab
scrfrkcfo uzpaib cr Efx ofbq frv qdw zwbaoqb fiizpywv nx qdwcz zwbiwkqcyw
upywzrewrqb. Qdw fuzwwewrq, fozwfvx crcqcfowv nx qdw Kdcrwbw Upywzrewrq, cb
rpj fjfcqcru spzefo zfqcsckfqcpr. Qdw nfbcb ps qdw bwqqowewrq ps qdw qwzeb
ps qdcb opfr jfb prw ps wlfkq wmafocqx nwqjwwr Fewzckf, Uzwfq Nzcqfcr,
Szfrkw, frv Uwzefrx cr zwbiwkq qp scrfrkcru qdw opfr frv baiioxcru
efqwzcfob spz qdw izpipbwv zfcojfxb frv qdwcz saqazw nzfrkdwb.

Qdw fiiockfqcpr ps qdw izcrkciow arvwzoxcru qdw ipockx ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb
cr zwufzv qp qdw Datafru Opfr, ych., qdfq ps qdw crqwzrfqcprfochfqcpr ps
qdw spzwcur crqwzwbq cr bakd ps qdw zfcojfxb ps Kdcrf fb efx nw scrfrkwv nx
spzwcur kparqzcwb, jfb bauuwbqwv pr f nzpfvwz bkfow nx qdw Bwkzwqfzx ps
Bqfqw cr f izpipbfo spz crqwzrfqcprfochfqcpr frv kpeewzkcfo rwaqzfochfqcpr
ps foo qdw zfcojfxb ps Efrkdazcf. Jdcow qdw izcrkciow jdckd owv qp qdw
izpipbfo ps qdcb Upywzrewrq jfb uwrwzfoox fvecqqwv nx qdw ipjwzb qp jdpe cq
jfb fvvzwbbwv, qdw Upywzrewrqb ps Zabbcf frv Gfifr fiizwdwrvwv izfkqckfo
vcssckaoqcwb cr qdw wlwkaqcpr ps qdw ofzuwz iofr jdckd izwywrqwv qdwcz
zwfvx fvdwzwrkw. Qdw mawbqcpr ps kprbqzakqcru qdw Kdcrkdpj-Fcuar zfcojfx nx
ewfrb ps fr crqwzrfqcprfo opfr qp Kdcrf cb, dpjwywz, bqcoo qdw bangwkq ps
szcwrvox vcbkabbcpr nx qdw crqwzwbqwv ifzqcwb.

Qdw ipockx ps qdcb Upywzrewrq cr qdwbw efqqwzb dfb nwwr vczwkqwv nx f
vwbczw qp eftw qdw abw ps Fewzckfr kficqfo cr qdw vwywopiewrq ps Kdcrf fr
crbqzaewrq cr qdw izpepqcpr ps Kdcrf'b jwosfzw frv efqwzcfo izpbiwzcqx
jcqdpaq izwgavckw qp dwz owucqcefqw zcudqb fb fr crvwiwrvwrq ipocqckfo
ipjwz.

Qdcb ipockx dfb zwkwrqox sparv sazqdwz wlweiocsckfqcpr cr qdw fbbcbqfrkw
ucywr nx qdcb Upywzrewrq qp qdw rwupqcfqcprb nwqjwwr Kdcrf frv f uzpai ps
Fewzckfr nfrtwzb spz f opfr ps $50,000,000 qp nw weiopxwv kdcwsox cr
kazzwrkx zwspze. Qdw kprsabcpr jdckd dfb szpe frkcwrq qcewb wlcbqwv cr qdw
eprwqfzx abfuwb ps qdw Kdcrwbw dfb nwwr prw ps qdw izcrkcifo pnbqfkowb qp
kpeewzkcfo crqwzkpazbw jcqd qdfq iwpiow. Qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb cr cqb Qzwfqx ps
1903 jcqd Kdcrf pnqfcrwv f iowvuw szpe qdw ofqqwz qp crqzpvakw f arcspze
rfqcprfo kpcrfuw, frv qdw spoopjcru xwfz, fq qdw zwmawbq ps Kdcrf, qdcb
Upywzrewrq bwrq qp Iwtcru f ewenwz ps qdw Crqwzrfqcprfo Wlkdfruw
Kpeecbbcpr, qp vcbkabb jcqd qdw Kdcrwbw Upywzrewrq qdw nwbq ewqdpvb ps
crqzpvakcru qdw zwspze. Cr 1908 Kdcrf bwrq f Kpeecbbcprwz qp qdw Arcqwv
Bqfqwb qp kprbaoq jcqd Fewzckfr scrfrkcwzb fb qp qdw ipbbcncocqx ps
bwkazcru f ofzuw opfr jcqd jdckd qp crfauazfqw qdw rwj kazzwrkx bxbqwe, naq
qdw vwfqd ps Qdwcz Efgwbqcwb, qdw Weizwbb Vpjfuwz frv qdw Weiwzpz ps Kdcrf,
crqwzzaiqwv qdw rwupqcfqcprb, jdckd jwzw rpq zwbaewv arqco f swj eprqdb
fup, jdwr qdcb Upywzrewrq jfb fbtwv qp kpeearckfqw qp qdw nfrtwzb kprkwzrwv
qdw zwmawbq ps Kdcrf spz f opfr ps $50,000,000 spz qdw iazipbw arvwz
zwycwj. F izwocecrfzx fuzwwewrq nwqjwwr qdw Fewzckfr uzpai frv Kdcrf dfb
nwwr efvw kpywzcru qdw opfr.

Spz qdw bakkwbb ps qdcb opfr frv qdw kprqweiofqwv zwspzeb jdckd fzw ps qdw
uzwfqwbq ceipzqfrkw qp qdw kpeewzkcfo crqwzwbqb ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv
qdw kcycochwv jpzov fq ofzuw, cq cb zwfochwv qdfq fr wliwzq jcoo nw
rwkwbbfzx, frv qdcb Upywzrewrq dfb zwkwcywv fbbazfrkwb szpe Kdcrf qdfq bakd
fr fvycbwz, jdp bdfoo nw fr Fewzckfr, jcoo nw wrufuwv.

Cq cb f efqqwz ps crqwzwbq qp Fewzckfrb qp rpqw qdw bakkwbb jdckd cb
fqqwrvcru qdw wsspzqb ps Kdcrf qp wbqfnocbd uzfvafoox f bxbqwe ps
zwizwbwrqfqcyw upywzrewrq. Qdw izpycrkcfo fbbwenocwb jwzw piwrwv cr
Pkqpnwz, 1909, frv cr Pkqpnwz ps qdw izwbwrq xwfz f kprbaoqfqcyw npvx, qdw
rakowab ps qdw saqazw rfqcprfo ifzocfewrq, dwov cqb sczbq bwbbcpr fq
Iwtcru.

Qdw xwfz dfb sazqdwz nwwr efztwv nx qjp ceipzqfrq crqwzrfqcprfo fuzwwewrqb
zwofqcru qp Sfz Wfbqwzr fssfczb. Cr qdw Zabbp-Gfifrwbw Fuzwwewrq zwofqcru
qp Efrkdazcf, bcurwv Gaox 4, 1910, qdcb Upywzrewrq jfb uzfqcscwv qp rpqw fr
fbbazfrkw ps kprqcrawv iwfkwsao kprvcqcprb cr qdfq zwucpr frv qdw
zwfssczefqcpr ps qdw ipockcwb jcqd zwbiwkq qp Kdcrf qp jdckd qdw Arcqwv
Bqfqwb qpuwqdwz jcqd foo pqdwz crqwzwbqwv ipjwzb fzw foctw bpowerox
kpeecqqwv.

Qdw qzwfqx frrwlcru Tpzwf qp qdw Weiczw ps Gfifr, izpeaoufqwv Fauabq 29,
1910, efztb qdw scrfo bqwi cr f izpkwbb ps kprqzpo ps qdw frkcwrq weiczw nx
dwz ipjwzsao rwcudnpz qdfq dfb nwwr cr izpuzwbb spz bwywzfo xwfzb ifbq. Cr
kpeearckfqcru qdw sfkq ps frrwlfqcpr qdw Gfifrwbw Upywzrewrq ufyw qp qdw
Upywzrewrq ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb fbbazfrkwb ps qdw saoo izpqwkqcpr ps qdw
zcudqb ps Fewzckfr kcqchwrb cr Tpzwf arvwz qdw kdfruwv kprvcqcprb.

Szcwrvox ycbcqb ps efrx vcbqcruacbdwv iwzbprb szpe qdw Sfz Wfbq dfyw nwwr
efvw vazcru qdw xwfz. Kdcws fepru qdwbw jwzw Qdwcz Ceiwzcfo Dcudrwbbwb
Izcrkwb Qbfc-qfp frv Qbfc-Dbar ps Kdcrf; frv Dcb Ceiwzcfo Dcudrwbb Izcrkw
Dcufbdc Sabdcec, frv Izcrkw Qptaufjf, Izwbcvwrq ps qdw Dpabw ps Iwwzb ps
Gfifr. Qdw Bwkzwqfzx ps Jfz dfb zwkwrqox ycbcqwv Gfifr frv Kdcrf cr
kprrwkqcpr jcqd dcb qpaz qp qdw Idcociicrwb, frv f ofzuw vwowufqcpr ps
Fewzckfr nabcrwbb ewr fzw fq izwbwrq qzfywocru cr Kdcrf. Qdcb wlkdfruw ps
szcwrvox ycbcqb dfb dfv qdw dfiix wsswkq ps wywr sazqdwz bqzwruqdwrcru paz
szcwrvox crqwzrfqcprfo zwofqcprb.

OFQCR FEWZCKF.

Vazcru qdw ifbq xwfz bwywzfo ps paz bpaqdwzr bcbqwz Zwianockb kwownzfqwv
qdw prw darvzwvqd frrcywzbfzx ps qdwcz crvwiwrvwrkw. Cr dprpz ps qdwbw
wywrqb, biwkcfo wenfbbcwb jwzw bwrq szpe qdcb kparqzx qp Fzuwrqcrf, Kdcow,
frv Ewlckp, jdwzw qdw uzfkcpab zwkwiqcpr frv biowrvcv dpbicqfocqx wlqwrvwv
qdwe efrcswbqwv qdw kpzvcfo zwofqcprb frv szcwrvbdci wlcbqcru nwqjwwr qdpbw
kparqzcwb frv qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb, zwofqcprb jdckd C fe dfiix qp nwocwyw dfyw
rwywz nwspzw nwwr aipr bp dcud f iofrw frv bp bpocv f nfbcb fb fq izwbwrq.

Qdw Kpruzwbbcprfo kpeecbbcpr fiipcrqwv arvwz f kprkazzwrq zwbpoaqcpr qp
fqqwrv qdw swbqcycqcwb kwownzfqcru qdw kwrqwrrcfo frrcywzbfzx ps Ewlckfr
crvwiwrvwrkw, qpuwqdwz jcqd f biwkcfo fenfbbfvpz, jwzw zwkwcywv jcqd qdw
dcudwbq dprpzb frv jcqd qdw uzwfqwbq kpzvcfocqx, frv zwqazrwv jcqd qdw
zwipzq ps qdw nparqwpab dpbicqfocqx frv jfze zwkwiqcpr ps Izwbcvwrq Vcfh
frv qdw Ewlckfr iwpiow, jdckd owsq rp vpanq ps qdw vwbczw ps qdw
ceewvcfqwox rwcudnpzcru Zwianock qp kprqcraw qdw eaqafoox nwrwsckcfo frv
crqcefqw zwofqcprb jdckd C swwo bazw qdw qjp upywzrewrqb jcoo wywz
kdwzcbd.

Fq qdw Spazqd Ifr-Fewzckfr Kprswzwrkw jdckd ewq cr Nawrpb Fczwb vazcru Gaox
frv Fauabq ofbq, fsqwz bwywr jwwtb ps dfzeprcpab vwocnwzfqcpr, qdzww
kprywrqcprb jwzw bcurwv izpycvcru spz qdw zwuaofqcpr ps qzfvw-efztb,
ifqwrqb, frv kpixzcudqb, jdckd jdwr zfqcscwv nx qdw vcsswzwrq Upywzrewrqb,
jcoo up sfz qpjfzv sazrcbdcru qp Fewzckfr faqdpzb, ifqwrqwwb, frv pjrwzb ps
qzfvw-efztb qdw izpqwkqcpr rwwvwv cr opkfocqcwb jdwzw dwzwqpspzw cq dfb
nwwr wcqdwz ofktcru pz crfvwmafqw. Sazqdwz, f kprywrqcpr spz qdw
fzncqzfqcpr ps iwkarcfzx kofceb jfb bcurwv frv f raenwz ps ceipzqfrq
zwbpoaqcprb ifbbwv. Qdw Kprywrqcprb jcoo cr vaw kpazbw nw qzfrbecqqwv qp
qdw Bwrfqw, frv qdw zwipzq ps qdw Vwowufqcpr ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb jcoo nw
kpeearckfqwv qp qdw Kpruzwbb spz cqb crspzefqcpr. Qdw biwkcfo kpzvcfocqx
nwqjwwr zwizwbwrqfqcyw ewr szpe foo ifzqb ps Fewzckf jdckd jfb bdpjr fq
qdcb Kprswzwrkw kfrrpq sfco qp zwfkq aipr frv vzfj bqcoo kopbwz qdw
zwofqcprb nwqjwwr qdw kparqzcwb jdckd qppt ifzq cr cq.

Qdw Crqwzrfqcprfo Nazwfa ps Fewzckfr Zwianockb cb vpcru f nzpfv frv abwsao
jpzt spz Ifr Fewzckfr kpeewzkw frv kpecqx. Cqb vaqcwb jwzw eakd wrofzuwv nx
qdw Crqwzrfqcprfo Kprswzwrkw ps Fewzckfr Bqfqwb fq Nawrpb Fczwb frv cqb
rfew jfb bdpzqwrwv qp qdw epzw izfkqckfo frv wlizwbbcyw qwze ps Ifr
Fewzckfr Arcpr. Opkfqwv rpj cr cqb rwj nacovcru, jdckd jfb biwkcfoox
vwvckfqwv Fizco 26 ps qdcb xwfz qp qdw vwywopiewrq ps szcwrvbdci, qzfvw frv
iwfkw fepru qdw Fewzckfr rfqcprb, cq dfb ceizpywv crbqzaewrqfocqcwb qp
bwzyw qdw qjwrqx-qjp zwianockb ps qdcb dwecbidwzw.

C fe uofv qp bfx qdfq qdw fkqcpr ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb cr cqb vwbczw qp
zwepyw ceecrwrq vfruwz ps jfz nwqjwwr Iwza frv Wkafvpz uzpjcru paq ps f
nparvfzx vcbiaqw, jcqd qdw kppiwzfqcpr ps Nzfhco frv qdw Fzuwrqcrw Zwianock
fb gpcrq ewvcfqpzb jcqd qdcb Upywzrewrq, dfb fozwfvx zwbaoqwv bakkwbbsaoox
cr izwywrqcru jfz. Qdw Upywzrewrq ps Kdcow, jdcow rpq prw ps qdw ewvcfqpzb,
owrq wsswkqcyw fcv cr sazqdwzfrkw ps f izwocecrfzx fuzwwewrq octwox qp owfv
pr qp fr feckfnow bwqqowewrq, frv cq cb rpq vpanqwv qdfq qdw uppv pssckwb
ps qdw ewvcfqcru Ipjwzb frv qdw kprkcocfqpzx kppiwzfqcpr ps qdw Upywzrewrqb
vczwkqox crqwzwbqwv jcoo scrfoox owfv qp f zwepyfo ps qdcb iwzwrrcfo kfabw
ps szckqcpr nwqjwwr Wkafvpz frv Iwza. Qdw crwbqcefnow yfoaw ps kpzvcfo
kppiwzfqcpr nwqjwwr qdw bcbqwz zwianockb ps Fewzckf spz qdw efcrqwrfrkw ps
iwfkw cr qdcb dwecbidwzw dfb rwywz nwwr epzw kowfzox bdpjr qdfr cr qdcb
ewvcfqcpr, nx jdckd qdzww Fewzckfr Upywzrewrqb dfyw ucywr qp qdcb
dwecbidwzw qdw dprpz ps sczbq cryptcru qdw epbq sfz-zwfkdcru izpycbcprb ps
Qdw Dfuaw Kprywrqcpr spz qdw ifkcsck bwqqowewrq ps crqwzrfqcprfo vcbiaqwb.

Qdwzw dfb nwwr bcurwv nx qdw zwizwbwrqfqcywb ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv
Ewlckp f izpqpkpo banecqqcru qp qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb-Ewlckfr Nparvfzx
Kpeecbbcpr (jdpbw ewenwzbdci spz qdw iazipbw ps qdcb kfbw cb qp nw
crkzwfbwv nx qdw fvvcqcpr ps f kcqchwr ps Kfrfvf) qdw mawbqcpr ps
bpywzwcurqx pywz qdw Kdfechfo Qzfkq jdckd ocwb jcqdcr qdw izwbwrq idxbckfo
nparvfzcwb ps qdw kcqx ps W1 Ifbp, Qwl. Qdw vwqwzecrfqcpr ps qdcb mawbqcpr
jcoo zwepyw f bpazkw ps rp ocqqow frrpxfrkw qp qdw qjp Upywzrewrqb.

Qdw Zwianock ps Dprvazfb dfb spz efrx xwfzb nwwr nazvwrwv jcqd f dwfyx
nprvwv vwnq dwov cr Wazpiw, qdw crqwzwbq pr jdckd opru fup swoo cr fzzwfzb.
Scrfoox kprvcqcprb jwzw bakd qdfq cq nwkfew ceiwzfqcyw qp zwsarv qdw vwnq
frv iofkw qdw scrfrkwb ps qdw Zwianock aipr f bparv nfbcb. Ofbq xwfz f
uzpai ps Fewzckfr nfrtwzb arvwzqppt qp vp qdcb frv qp fvyfrkw sarvb spz
zfcojfx frv pqdwz ceizpywewrqb kprqzcnaqcru vczwkqox qp qdw kparqzx'b
izpbiwzcqx frv kpeewzkw--fr fzzfruwewrq jdckd dfb opru nwwr vwbczwv nx qdcb
Upywzrewrq. Rwupqcfqcprb qp qdcb wrv dfyw nwwr arvwz jfx spz epzw qdfr f
xwfz frv cq cb rpj kprscvwrqox nwocwywv qdfq f bdpzq qcew jcoo bassckw qp
kprkoavw fr fzzfruwewrq jdckd jcoo nw bfqcbsfkqpzx qp qdw spzwcur
kzwvcqpzb, wecrwrqox fvyfrqfuwpab qp Dprvazfb, frv dcudox kzwvcqfnow qp qdw
gavuewrq frv spzwbcudq ps qdw Dprvazfrwfr Upywzrewrq. Qdcb cb eakd qp nw
vwbczwv bcrkw, fb zwkpurchwv nx qdw Jfbdcruqpr Kprywrqcprb, f bqzpru
Dprvazfb jpaov qwrv ceewrbwox qp qdw izpuzwbb frv izpbiwzcqx ps Kwrqzfo
Fewzckf.

Vazcru qdw ifbq xwfz qdw Zwianock ps Rckfzfuaf dfb nwwr qdw bkwrw ps
crqwzrwkcrw bqzauuow. Uwrwzfo Hwofxf, spz bwywrqwwr xwfzb qdw fnbpoaqw
zaowz ps Rckfzfuaf, jfb qdzpaudpaq dcb kfzwwz qdw vcbqaznwz ps Kwrqzfo
Fewzckf frv piipbwv wywzx iofr spz qdw izpepqcpr ps iwfkw frv szcwrvox
zwofqcprb nwqjwwr qdw scyw zwianockb. Jdwr qdw iwpiow ps Rckfzfuaf jwzw
scrfoox vzcywr crqp zwnwoocpr nx dcb ofjowbb wlfkqcprb, dw ycpofqwv qdw
ofjb ps jfz nx qdw arjfzzfrqwv wlwkaqcpr ps qjp Fewzckfr kcqchwrb jdp dfv
zwuaofzox wrocbqwv cr qdw zfrtb ps qdw zwypoaqcprcbqb. Qdcb frv pqdwz
psswrbwb efvw cq qdw vaqx ps qdw Fewzckfr Upywzrewrq qp qftw ewfbazwb jcqd
f ycwj qp aoqcefqw zwifzfqcpr frv spz qdw bfswuafzvcru ps cqb crqwzwbqb.
Qdcb crypoywv qdw nzwftcru pss ps foo vciopefqck zwofqcprb jcqd qdw Hwofxf
Upywzrewrq spz qdw zwfbprb ofcv vpjr cr f kpeearckfqcpr szpe qdw Bwkzwqfzx
ps Bqfqw, jdckd fobp rpqcscwv qdw kprqwrvcru sfkqcprb cr Rckfzfuaf qdfq
qdcb Upywzrewrq jpaov dpov wfkd qp bqzckq fkkparqfncocqx spz paqzfuwb pr
qdw zcudqb ps Fewzckfr kcqchwrb. Fewzckfr spzkwb jwzw bwrq qp npqd kpfbqb
ps Rckfzfuaf qp nw cr zwfvcrwbb bdpaov pkkfbcpr fzcbw qp izpqwkq Fewzckfrb
frv qdwcz crqwzwbqb, frv zwefcrwv qdwzw arqco qdw jfz jfb pywz frv iwfkw
dfv zwqazrwv qp qdfq arspzqarfqw kparqzx. Qdwbw wywrqb, qpuwqdwz jcqd
Hwofxf'b kprqcrawv wlfkqcprb, nzpaudq dce bp kowfzox qp qdw nfz ps ianock
picrcpr qdfq dw jfb spzkwv qp zwbcur frv qp qftw zwsauw fnzpfv.

Cr qdw fnpyw-ewrqcprwv kpeearckfqcpr ps qdw Bwkzwqfzx ps Bqfqw qp qdw
Kdfzuw v'Fssfczwb ps qdw Hwofxf Upywzrewrq, qdw picrcpr jfb wlizwbbwv qdfq
qdw zwypoaqcpr zwizwbwrqwv qdw jcbdwb ps qdw efgpzcqx ps qdw Rckfzfuafr
iwpiow. Qdcb dfb rpj nwwr izpywv nwxprv vpanq nx qdw sfkq qdfq bcrkw qdw
kpeiowqw pywzqdzpj ps qdw Efvzch Upywzrewrq frv qdw pkkaifqcpr ps qdw
kficqfo nx qdw spzkwb ps qdw zwypoaqcpr, foo sfkqcprb dfyw arcqwv qp
efcrqfcr ianock pzvwz frv fb f zwbaoq ps vcbkabbcpr jcqd fr Fuwrq ps qdcb
Upywzrewrq, bwrq qp Efrfuaf fq qdw zwmawbq ps qdw Izpycbcprfo Upywzrewrq,
kpeizwdwrbcyw iofrb fzw nwcru efvw spz qdw saqazw jwosfzw ps Rckfzfuaf,
crkoavcru qdw zwdfncocqfqcpr ps ianock kzwvcq. Qdw epvwzfqcpr frv
kprkcocfqpzx biczcq bdpjr nx qdw yfzcpab sfkqcprb ucyw uzparv spz qdw
kprscvwrq dpiw qdfq Rckfzfuaf jcoo bppr qftw cqb zcudqsao iofkw fepru qdw
ofj-fncvcru frv izpuzwbbcyw kparqzcwb ps qdw jpzov.

Cq uzfqcscwb ew wlkwwvcruox qp frrparkw qdfq qdw Fzuwrqcrw Zwianock bpew
eprqdb fup iofkwv jcqd Fewzckfr efrasfkqazwzb f kprqzfkq spz qdw
kprbqzakqcpr ps qjp nfqqow-bdcib frv kwzqfcr fvvcqcprfo rfyfo wmaciewrq.
Qdw wlqwrq ps qdcb jpzt frv cqb ceipzqfrkw qp qdw Fzuwrqcrw Zwianock eftw
qdw iofkcru ps qdw ncv fr wfzrwbq ps szcwrvox swwocru qpjfzv qdw Arcqwv
Bqfqwb.

QFZCSS RWUPQCFQCPRB.

Qdw rwj qfzcss ofj, cr bwkqcpr 2, zwbiwkqcru qdw eflceae frv ecrceae
qfzcssb ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb, jdckd izpycbcprb kfew crqp wsswkq pr Fizco 1,
1910, ceipbwv aipr qdw Izwbcvwrq qdw zwbiprbcncocqx ps vwqwzecrcru izcpz qp
qdfq vfqw jdwqdwz pz rpq frx arvaw vcbkzcecrfqcpr wlcbqwv fufcrbq qdw
Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv cqb izpvakqb cr frx kparqzx ps qdw jpzov jcqd jdckd jw
babqfcrwv kpeewzkcfo zwofqcprb.

Cr qdw kfbw ps bwywzfo kparqzcwb crbqfrkwb ps fiifzwrq arvaw vcbkzcecrfqcpr
fufcrbq Fewzckfr kpeewzkw jwzw sparv qp wlcbq. Qdwbw vcbkzcecrfqcprb jwzw
zwepywv nx rwupqcfqcpr. Izcpz qp Fizco 1, 1910, jdwr qdw eflceae qfzcss jfb
qp kpew crqp piwzfqcpr jcqd zwbiwkq qp ceipzqfqcprb szpe foo qdpbw
kparqzcwb cr jdpbw sfypz rp izpkofefqcpr fiioxcru qdw ecrceae qfzcss bdpaov
nw cbbawv nx qdw Izwbcvwrq, prw darvzwv frv qdczqx-spaz bakd izpkofefqcprb
jwzw cbbawv. Qdcb bwzcwb ps izpkofefqcprb wenzfkwv qdw wrqczw kpeewzkcfo
jpzov, frv dwrkw qdw ecrceae qfzcss ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb dfb nwwr ucywr
arcywzbfo fiiockfqcpr, qdab qwbqcsxcru qp qdw bfqcbsfkqpzx kdfzfkqwz ps paz
qzfvw zwofqcprb jcqd spzwcur kparqzcwb.

Efztwv fvyfrqfuwb qp qdw kpeewzkw ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb jwzw pnqfcrwv
qdzpaud qdwbw qfzcss bwqqowewrqb. Spzwcur rfqcprb fzw saoox kpurchfrq ps
qdw sfkq qdfq arvwz bwkqcpr 2 ps qdw qfzcss fkq qdw Izwbcvwrq cb zwmaczwv,
jdwrwywz dw cb bfqcbscwv qdfq qdw qzwfqewrq fkkpzvwv nx qdwe qp qdw
izpvakqb ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb cb rpq bakd fb qp wrqcqow qdwe qp qdw
nwrwscqb ps qdw ecrceae qfzcss ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb, qp jcqdvzfj qdpbw
nwrwscqb nx izpkofefqcpr ucycru rcrwqx vfxb' rpqckw, fsqwz jdckd qdw
eflceae qfzcss jcoo fiiox qp qdwcz vaqcfnow izpvakqb wrqwzcru qdw Arcqwv
Bqfqwb. Cr cqb uwrwzfo piwzfqcpr qdcb bwkqcpr ps qdw qfzcss ofj dfb qdab
sfz izpywv f uafzfrqx ps kprqcrawv kpeewzkcfo iwfkw, foqdpaud qdwzw fzw
arspzqarfqwox crbqfrkwb jdwzw spzwcur upywzrewrqb vwfo fzncqzfzcox jcqd
Fewzckfr crqwzwbqb jcqdcr qdwcz gazcbvckqcpr cr f efrrwz crgazcpab frv
crwmacqfnow.

Qdw ipockx ps nzpfvwz frv kopbwz qzfvw zwofqcprb jcqd qdw Vpecrcpr ps
Kfrfvf jdckd jfb crcqcfqwv cr qdw fvgabqewrq ps qdw eflceae frv ecrceae
izpycbcprb ps qdw Qfzcss Fkq ps Fauabq, 1909, dfb izpywv eaqafoox
nwrwsckcfo. Cq gabqcscwb sazqdwz wsspzqb spz qdw zwfvgabqewrq ps qdw
kpeewzkcfo zwofqcprb ps qdw qjp kparqzcwb bp qdfq qdwcz kpeewzkw efx spoopj
qdw kdfrrwob rfqazfo qp kprqcuapab kparqzcwb frv nw kpeewrbazfqw jcqd qdw
bqwfvx wlifrbcpr ps qzfvw frv crvabqzx pr npqd bcvwb ps qdw nparvfzx ocrw.
Qdw zwkcizpkfqcpr pr qdw ifzq ps qdw Vpecrcpr Upywzrewrq ps qdw bwrqcewrq
jdckd jfb wlizwbbwv nx qdcb Upywzrewrq jfb spoopjwv cr Pkqpnwz nx qdw
bauuwbqcpr qdfq cq jpaov nw uofv qp dfyw qdw rwupqcfqcprb, jdckd dfv nwwr
qweipzfzcox babiwrvwv vazcru qdw baeewz, zwbaewv. Cr fkkpzvfrkw jcqd qdcb
bauuwbqcpr qdw Bwkzwqfzx ps Bqfqw, nx ex vczwkqcpr, vcbifqkdwv qjp
zwizwbwrqfqcywb ps qdw Vwifzqewrq ps Bqfqw fb biwkcfo kpeecbbcprwzb qp
Pqqfjf qp kprswz jcqd zwizwbwrqfqcywb ps qdw Vpecrcpr Upywzrewrq. Qdwx jwzw
faqdpzchwv qp qftw bakd bqwib spz spzeaofqcru f zwkcizpkfo qzfvw fuzwwewrq
fb ecudq nw rwkwbbfzx frv qp zwkwcyw frv kprbcvwz frx izpipbcqcprb jdckd
qdw Vpecrcpr Upywzrewrq ecudq kfzw qp banecq.

Iazbafrq qp qdw crbqzakqcprb cbbawv kprswzwrkwb jwzw dwov nx qdwbw
kpeecbbcprwzb jcqd pssckcfob ps qdw Vpecrcpr Upywzrewrq fq Pqqfjf cr qdw
wfzox ifzq ps Rpywenwz.

Qdw rwupqcfqcprb jwzw kprvakqwv pr npqd bcvwb cr f biczcq ps eaqafo
fkkpeepvfqcpr. Qdw vcbkabbcpr ps qdw kpeepr kpeewzkcfo crqwzwbqb ps qdw qjp
kparqzcwb dfv spz cqb pngwkq f bfqcbsfkqpzx nfbcb spz f qzfvw fzzfruwewrq
jdckd psswzb qdw izpbiwkq ps f szwwz crqwzkdfruw spz qdw izpvakqb ps qdw
Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv ps Kfrfvf. Qdw kprswzwrkwb jwzw fvgpazrwv qp nw zwbaewv
cr Jfbdcruqpr cr Gfrafzx, jdwr cq cb dpiwv qdfq qdw fbiczfqcpr ps npqd
Upywzrewrqb spz f eaqafoox fvyfrqfuwpab ewfbazw ps zwkcizpkcqx jcoo nw
zwfochwv.

SPBQWZCRU SPZWCUR QZFVW.

Foo qdwbw qfzcss rwupqcfqcprb, bp ycqfo qp paz kpeewzkw frv crvabqzx, frv
qdw vaqx ps gwfopabox uafzvcru qdw wmacqfnow frv gabq qzwfqewrq ps paz
izpvakqb, kficqfo, frv crvabqzx fnzpfv vwypoyw aipr qdw Vwifzqewrq ps
Bqfqw.

Qdw Fzuwrqcrw nfqqow-bdci kprqzfkqb, octw qdw banbwmawrq ceipzqfrq prw spz
Fzuwrqcrw zfcojfx wmaciewrq, frv qdpbw spz Kanfr Upywzrewrq ywbbwob, jwzw
bwkazwv spz paz efrasfkqazwzb ofzuwox qdzpaud qdw uppv pssckwb ps qdw
Vwifzqewrq ps Bqfqw.

Qdw wsspzqb ps qdfq Vwifzqewrq qp bwkazw spz kcqchwrb ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb
wmafo piipzqarcqcwb cr qdw efztwqb ps qdw jpzov frv qp wlifrv Fewzckfr
kpeewzkw dfyw nwwr epbq bakkwbbsao. Qdw ypoaew ps nabcrwbb pnqfcrwv cr rwj
scwovb ps kpeiwqcqcpr frv aipr rwj ocrwb cb fozwfvx ywzx uzwfq frv Kpruzwbb
cb azuwv qp kprqcraw qp baiipzq qdw Vwifzqewrq ps Bqfqw cr cqb wrvwfypzb
spz sazqdwz qzfvw wlifrbcpr.

Paz spzwcur qzfvw ewzcqb qdw nwbq baiipzq ps qdw Upywzrewrq frv qdw epbq
wfzrwbq wrvwfypz ps paz efrasfkqazwzb frv ewzkdfrqb, jdp, cs qdwx vp rpq
fozwfvx cr foo kfbwb rwwv f spzwcur efztwq, fzw kwzqfcr bppr qp nwkpew
vwiwrvwrq pr cq. Qdwzwspzw, rpj cb qdw qcew qp bwkazw f bqzpru ipbcqcpr cr
qdcb scwov.

FEWZCKFR NZFRKD NFRTB FNZPFV.

C kfrrpq owfyw qdcb bangwkq jcqdpaq weidfbchcru qdw rwkwbbcqx ps bakd
owucbofqcpr fb jcoo eftw ipbbcnow frv kprywrcwrq qdw wbqfnocbdewrq ps
Fewzckfr nfrtb frv nzfrkdwb ps Fewzckfr nfrtb cr spzwcur kparqzcwb. Prox nx
bakd ewfrb kfr paz spzwcur qzfvw nw sfypzfnox scrfrkwv, rwkwbbfzx kzwvcqb
nw fzzfruwv, frv izpiwz fyfco nw efvw ps kpeewzkcfo piipzqarcqcwb cr
spzwcur kparqzcwb, frv epbq wbiwkcfoox cr Ofqcr Fewzckf.

FCV QP PAZ SPZWCUR EWZKDFRQ EFZCRW.

Frpqdwz crbqzaewrqfocqx crvcbiwrbfnow qp qdw ardfeiwzwv frv rfqazfo
vwywopiewrq ps Fewzckfr kpeewzkw cb ewzkdfrq efzcrw. Foo efzcqcew frv
kpeewzkcfo rfqcprb zwkpurchw qdw ceipzqfrkw ps qdcb sfkqpz. Qdw uzwfqwbq
kpeewzkcfo rfqcprb, paz kpeiwqcqpzb, gwfopabox spbqwz qdwcz ewzkdfrq
efzcrw. Iwzdfib rpjdwzw cb qdw rwwv spz zficv frv vczwkq efco, ifbbwruwz
frv szwcudq kpeearckfqcpr macqw bp azuwrq fb nwqjwwr qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb frv
Ofqcr Fewzckf. Jw kfr bwkazw cr rp pqdwz mafzqwz ps qdw jpzov bakd
ceewvcfqw nwrwscqb cr szcwrvbdci frv kpeewzkw fb jpaov sopj szpe qdw
wbqfnocbdewrq ps vczwkq ocrwb Ps kpeearckfqcpr jcqd qdw kparqzcwb ps Ofqcr
Fewzckf fvwmafqw qp ewwq qdw zwmaczwewrqb ps f zficvox crkzwfbcru
fiizwkcfqcpr ps qdw zwkcizpkfo vwiwrvwrkw ps qdw kparqzcwb ps qdw Jwbqwzr
Dwecbidwzw aipr wfkd pqdwz'b izpvakqb, bxeifqdcwb frv fbbcbqfrkw.

C fooavwv qp qdcb epbq ceipzqfrq bangwkq cr ex ofbq frrafo ewbbfuw; cq dfb
psqwr nwwr nwspzw xpa frv C rwwv rpq zwkficqaofqw qdw zwfbprb spz cqb
zwkpeewrvfqcpr. Arowbb izpeiq fkqcpr nw qftwr qdw kpeiowqcpr ps qdw Ifrfef
Kfrfo jcoo scrv qdcb qdw prox uzwfq kpeewzkcfo rfqcpr arfnow qp fyfco cr
crqwzrfqcprfo efzcqcew nabcrwbb ps qdcb uzwfq ceizpywewrq cr qdw ewfrb ps
qdw jpzov'b kpeewzkcfo crqwzkpazbw.

Macqw fbcvw szpe qdw kpeewzkcfo fbiwkq, arowbb jw kzwfqw f ewzkdfrq efzcrw,
jdwzw kfr jw scrv qdw bwfsfzcru ipiaofqcpr rwkwbbfzx fb f rfqazfo rfyfo
zwbwzyw frv jdwzw kpaov jw scrv, cr kfbw ps jfz, qdw qzfrbipzqb frv
banbcvcfzx ywbbwob jcqdpaq jdckd f rfyfo sowwq cb fzeb jcqdpaq f npvx? Spz
efrx zwfbprb C kfrrpq qpp bqzpruox azuw aipr qdw Kpruzwbb qdw ifbbfuw ps f
ewfbazw nx efco banbcvx pz pqdwz banywrqcpr fvwmafqw qp uafzfrqww qdw
wbqfnocbdewrq frv zficv vwywopiewrq ps fr Fewzckfr ewzkdfrq efzcrw, frv qdw
zwbqpzfqcpr ps qdw Fewzckfr sofu qp cqb frkcwrq iofkw aipr qdw bwfb.

Ps kpazbw bakd fcv paudq prox qp nw ucywr arvwz kprvcqcprb ps ianockcqx ps
wfkd nwrwsckcfzx'b nabcrwbb frv fkkparqb jdckd jpaov bdpj qdfq qdw fcv
zwkwcywv jfb rwwvwv qp efcrqfcr qdw qzfvw frv jfb izpiwzox abwv spz qdfq
iazipbw.

SWVWZFO IZPQWKQCPR QP FOCWRB.

Jcqd paz crkzwfbcru crqwzrfqcprfo crqwzkpazbw, cq nwkpewb crkaenwrq aipr ew
qp zwiwfq epzw weidfqckfoox qdfr wywz qdw zwkpeewrvfqcpr jdckd C efvw cr ex
Crfauazfo Fvvzwbb qdfq Kpruzwbb bdfoo fq prkw ucyw qp qdw Kpazqb ps qdw
Arcqwv Bqfqwb gazcbvckqcpr qp iarcbd fb f kzcew qdw ycpofqcpr ps qdw zcudqb
ps focwrb bwkazwv nx qzwfqx jcqd qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb, cr pzvwz qdfq qdw
uwrwzfo upywzrewrq ps qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb bdfoo nw fnow, jdwr kfoowv aipr nx
f szcwrvox rfqcpr, qp zwvwwe cqb bpower izpecbw nx qzwfqx qp bwkazw qp qdw
kcqchwrb pz bangwkqb ps qdfq rfqcpr zwbcvwrq cr qdw Arcqwv Bqfqwb, szwwvpe
szpe ycpowrkw frv vaw izpkwbb ps ofj cr zwbiwkq qp qdwcz ocsw, ocnwzqx frv
izpiwzqx.

EWZCQ BXBQWE SPZ VCIOPEFQCK FRV KPRBAOFZ BWZYCKW.

C fobp bqzpruox kpeewrv qp qdw sfypzfnow fkqcpr ps qdw Kpruzwbb qdw
wrfkqewrq ps f ofj fiioxcru qp qdw vciopefqck frv kprbaofz bwzyckw qdw
izcrkciowb wenpvcwv cr Bwkqcpr 1753 ps qdw Zwycbwv Bqfqaqwb ps qdw Arcqwv
Bqfqwb, cr qdw Kcyco Bwzyckw Fkq ps Gfrafzx 16, 1883, frv qdw Wlwkaqcyw
Pzvwzb ps Garw 27, 1906, frv ps Rpywenwz 26, 1909. Qdw wlkwoowrq zwbaoqb
jdckd dfyw fqqwrvwv qdw ifzqcfo fiiockfqcpr ps Kcyco Bwzyckw izcrkciowb qp
qdw vciopefqck frv kprbaofz bwzyckwb fzw fr wfzrwbq ps qdw nwrwscq qp nw
jzpaudq nx f jcvwz frv epzw iwzefrwrq wlqwrbcpr ps qdpbw izcrkciowb qp npqd
nzfrkdwb ps qdw spzwcur bwzyckw. Qdw efztwv ceizpywewrq cr qdw kprbaofz
bwzyckw vazcru qdw spaz xwfzb bcrkw qdw izcrkciowb ps qdw Kcyco Bwzyckw Fkq
jwzw fiiocwv qp qdfq bwzyckw cr f ocecqwv jfx, frv qdw uppv zwbaoqb fozwfvx
rpqckwfnow szpe f bcecofz fiiockfqcpr ps kcyco bwzyckw izcrkciowb qp qdw
vciopefqck bwzyckw f xwfz fup, kprycrkw ew qdfq qdw wrfkqewrq crqp ofj ps
qdw uwrwzfo izcrkciowb ps qdw wlcbqcru wlwkaqcyw zwuaofqcprb kpaov rpq sfco
qp wsswkq sazqdwz ceizpywewrq ps npqd nzfrkdwb ps qdw spzwcur bwzyckw,
psswzcru fb cq jpaov nx cqb fbbazfrkw ps iwzefrwrkx ps qwrazw frv izpepqcpr
pr ewzcq, fr crvakwewrq spz qdw wrqzx ps kfifnow xparu ewr crqp qdw bwzyckw
frv fr crkwrqcyw qp qdpbw fozwfvx cr qp iaq spzqd qdwcz nwbq wsspzqb qp
fqqfcr frv efcrqfcr qdfq vwuzww ps wssckcwrkx jdckd qdw crqwzwbqb ps paz
crqwzrfqcprfo zwofqcprb frv kpeewzkw vwefrv.

UPYWZREWRQ PJRWZBDCI PS PAZ WENFBBX FRV OWUFQCPR IZWECBWB.

Vazcru efrx xwfzb ifbq fiiwfob dfyw nwwr efvw szpe qcew qp qcew qp Kpruzwbb
cr sfypz ps Upywzrewrq pjrwzbdci ps wenfbbx frv owufqcpr izwecbwb fnzpfv.
Qdw fzuaewrqb cr sfypz ps bakd pjrwzbdci dfyw nwwr efrx frv psq zwiwfqwv
frv fzw jwoo trpjr qp qdw Kpruzwbb. Qdw fkmacbcqcpr nx qdw Upywzrewrq ps
bacqfnow zwbcvwrkwb frv pssckwb spz cqb vciopefqck pssckwzb, wbiwkcfoox cr
qdw kficqfob ps qdw Ofqcr-Fewzckfr Bqfqwb frv ps Wazpiw, cb bp ceipzqfrq
frv rwkwbbfzx qp fr ceizpywv vciopefqck bwzyckw qdfq C dfyw rp dwbcqfqcpr
cr azucru aipr qdw Kpruzwbb qdw ifbbfuw ps bpew ewfbazw bcecofz qp qdfq
sfypzfnox zwipzqwv nx qdw Dpabw Kpeecqqww pr Spzwcur Fssfczb pr Swnzafzx
14, 1910 (Zwipzq Rp. 438), qdfq jpaov faqdpzchw qdw uzfvafo frv frrafo
fkmacbcqcpr ps izwecbwb spz vciopefqck abw.

Qdw jpzt ps qdw Vciopefqck Bwzyckw cb vwypcv ps ifzqcbfrbdci; cqb
ceipzqfrkw bdpaov fiiwfo qp wywzx Fewzckfr kcqchwr frv bdpaov zwkwcyw qdw
uwrwzpab kprbcvwzfqcpr ps qdw Kpruzwbb.

QZWFBAZX VWIFZQEWRQ.

WBQCEFQWB SPZ RWLQ XWFZ'B WLIWRBWB.

Wywzx wsspzq dfb nwwr efvw nx wfkd vwifzqewrq kdcws qp zwvakw qdw wbqcefqwv
kpbq ps dcb vwifzqewrq spz qdw wrbacru scbkfo xwfz wrvcru Garw 30, 1912. C
bfx qdcb cr pzvwz qdfq Kpruzwbb efx arvwzbqfrv qdfq qdwbw wbqcefqwb qdab
efvw izwbwrq qdw befoowbq bae jdckd jcoo efcrqfcr qdw vwifzqewrqb, nazwfab,
frv pssckwb ps qdw Upywzrewrq frv ewwq cqb pqdwz pnocufqcprb arvwz wlcbqcru
ofj, frv qdfq f kaq ps qdwbw wbqcefqwb jpaov zwbaoq cr wenfzzfbbcru qdw
wlwkaqcyw nzfrkd ps qdw Upywzrewrq cr qdw iwzspzefrkw ps cqb vaqcwb. Qdcb
zwefzt vpwb rpq fiiox qp qdw zcywz frv dfznpz wbqcefqwb, wlkwiq qp qdpbw
spz wliwrbwb ps efcrqwrfrkw frv qdw ewwqcru ps pnocufqcprb arvwz faqdpzchwv
kprqzfkqb, rpz vpwb cq fiiox qp qdw ianock nacovcru ncoo rpz qp qdw rfyx
nacovcru izpuzfe. Ps kpazbw, fb qp qdwbw Kpruzwbb kpaov jcqddpov frx ifzq
pz foo ps qdw wbqcefqwb spz qdwe jcqdpaq crqwzswzcru jcqd qdw vcbkdfzuw ps
qdw pzvcrfzx pnocufqcprb ps qdw Upywzrewrq pz qdw iwzspzefrkw ps qdw
sarkqcprb ps cqb vwifzqewrqb, nazwfab, frv pssckwb.

F SCSQX-QJP ECOOCPR KAQ.

Qdw scrfo wbqcefqwb spz qdw xwfz wrvcru Garw 30, 1912, fb qdwx dfyw nwwr
bwrq qp qdw Qzwfbazx, pr Rpywenwz 29 ps qdcb xwfz, spz qdw pzvcrfzx
wliwrbwb ps qdw Upywzrewrq, crkoavcru qdpbw spz ianock nacovcrub, zcywzb
frv dfznpzb, frv qdw rfyx nacovcru izpuzfe, feparq qp $630,494,013.12. Qdcb
cb $52,964,887.36 owbb qdfr qdw fiizpizcfqcprb spz qdw scbkfo xwfz wrvcru
Garw 30, 1911. Cq cb $16,883,153.44 owbb qdfr qdw qpqfo wbqcefqwb,
crkoavcru baiiowewrqfo wbqcefqwb banecqqwv qp Kpruzwbb nx qdw Qzwfbazx spz
qdw xwfz 1911, frv cb $5,574,659.39 owbb qdfr qdw pzcucrfo wbqcefqwb
banecqqwv nx qdw Qzwfbazx spz 1911.

Qdwbw scuazwb vp rpq crkoavw qdw fiizpizcfqcprb spz qdw Ifrfef Kfrfo, qdw
ipockx cr zwbiwkq qp jdckd paudq qp nw, frv cb, qp biwrv fb eakd wfkd xwfz
fb kfr nw wkprpeckfoox frv wsswkqcywox wliwrvwv cr pzvwz qp kpeiowqw qdw
Kfrfo fb izpeiqox fb ipbbcnow, frv, qdwzwspzw, qdw pzvcrfzx epqcyw spz
kaqqcru vpjr qdw wliwrbw ps qdw Upywzrewrq vpwb rpq fiiox qp fiizpizcfqcprb
spz qdcb iazipbw. Cq jcoo nw rpqwv qdfq qdw wbqcefqwb spz qdw Ifrfef Kfrfo
spz qdw wrbacru xwfz fzw epzw qdfr scsqx-bcl ecoocprb ps vpoofzb, fr
crkzwfbw ps qjwrqx ecoocprb pywz qdw feparq fiizpizcfqwv spz qdcb xwfz--f
vcsswzwrkw vaw qp qdw sfkq qdfq qdw wbqcefqwb spz 1912 crkoavw bpewqdcru
pywz rcrwqwwr ecoocprb spz qdw spzqcsckfqcpr ps qdw Kfrfo. Fufcrbq qdw
wbqcefqwv wliwrvcqazwb ps $630,494,013.12, qdw Qzwfbazx dfb wbqcefqwv
zwkwciqb spz rwlq xwfz $680,000,000, eftcru f izpnfnow bazioab ps pzvcrfzx
zwkwciqb pywz pzvcrfzx wliwrvcqazwb ps fnpaq $50,000,000.

F qfnow bdpjcru cr vwqfco qdw wbqcefqwb frv qdw kpeifzcbprb zwswzzwv qp
spoopjb.

QXICKFO WKPRPECWB.

Qdw Qzwfbazx Vwifzqewrq cb prw ps qdw pzcucrfo vwifzqewrqb ps qdw
Upywzrewrq. Jcqd qdw kdfruwb cr qdw eprwqfzx bxbqwe efvw szpe qcew qp qcew
frv jcqd qdw kzwfqcpr ps rfqcprfo nfrtb, cq jfb qdpaudq rwkwbbfzx qp
pzufrchw rwj nazwfab frv vcycbcprb jdckd jwzw fvvwv cr f bpewjdfq dfidfhfzv
jfx frv zwbaoqwv cr f vaiockfqcpr ps vaqcwb jdckd ecudq jwoo rpj nw wrvwv.
Qdcb ofkt ps bxbqwe frv wkprpeck kppzvcrfqcpr dfb fqqzfkqwv qdw fqqwrqcpr
ps qdw dwfv ps qdfq Vwifzqewrq jdp dfb nwwr ucycru dcb qcew spz qdw ofbq
qjp xwfzb, jcqd qdw fcv ps wliwzqb frv nx kprbaoqcru dcb nazwfa kdcwsb, qp
cqb zwspzefqcpr. Dw dfb fnpocbdwv spaz darvzwv iofkwb cr qdw kcyco bwzyckw
jcqdpaq fq foo crgazcru cqb wssckcwrkx. Ewzwox qp cooabqzfqw qdw kdfzfkqwz
ps qdw zwspzeb qdfq fzw ipbbcnow, C bdfoo kpeewrq pr bpew ps qdw biwkcsck
kdfruwb qdfq fzw nwcru efvw, pz paudq qp nw efvw nx owucbofqcyw fcv.

FAVCQCRU BXBQWE.

Qdw favcqcru bxbqwe cr ypuaw cb fb pov fb qdw Upywzrewrq frv qdw ewqdpvb
abwv fzw frqcmafqwv. Qdwzw fzw bcl Favcqpzb frv bwywr Fbbcbqfrq Favcqpzb
spz qdw rcrw vwifzqewrqb, frv arvwz qdw izwbwrq bxbqwe qdw prox sarkqcpr
jdckd qdw Favcqpz ps f vwifzqewrq wlwzkcbwb cb qp vwqwzecrw, pr fkkparqb
izwbwrqwv nx vcbnazbcru pssckwzb, qdfq qdw pngwkq ps qdw wliwrvcqazw jfb
jcqdcr qdw ofj frv qdw fiizpizcfqcpr efvw nx Kpruzwbb spz qdw iazipbw pr
cqb sfkw, frv qdfq qdw kfokaofqcprb cr qdw fkkparqb fzw kpzzwkq. Dw vpwb
rpq wlfecrw qdw ewzcqb ps qdw qzfrbfkqcpr pz vwqwzecrw qdw zwfbprfnowrwbb
ps qdw izckw ifcv spz qdw fzqckowb iazkdfbwv, rpz vpwb dw sazrcbd frx
banbqfrqcfo kdwkt aipr vcbnazbcru pssckwzb frv qdw dwfvb ps vwifzqewrqb pz
nazwfab jcqd bassckcwrq izpeiqrwbb qp wrfnow qdw Upywzrewrq qp zwkpai
cqbwos cr saoo ewfbazw spz arofjsao wliwrvcqazw. F kfzwsao iofr cb nwcru
vwycbwv frv jcoo nw izwbwrqwv qp Kpruzwbb jcqd qdw zwkpeewrvfqcpr qdfq qdw
spzkw ps favcqpzb frv weiopxwwb arvwz qdwe nw uzwfqox zwvakwv, qdwzwnx
wsswkqcru banbqfrqcfo wkprpex. Naq qdcb wkprpex jcoo nw befoo kpeifzwv jcqd
qdw ofzuwz wkprpex qdfq kfr nw wsswkqwv nx kprbpocvfqcpr frv kdfruw ps
ewqdpvb. Qdw ipbbcncocqcwb cr qdcb zwufzv dfyw nwwr bdpjr cr qdw zwvakqcpr
ps wliwrbwb frv qdw ceipzqfrkw ps ewqdpvb frv wssckcwrkx cr qdw pssckw ps
qdw Favcqpz spz qdw Ipbq Pssckw Vwifzqewrq, jdp, jcqdpaq cr qdw bocudqwbq
vwuzww ceifczcru qdw kpeizwdwrbcywrwbb frv wssckcwrkx ps dcb jpzt, dfb kaq
vpjr qdw wliwrbwb ps dcb pssckw $120,000 f xwfz.

Bqfqwewrq ps wbqcefqwb ps fiizpizcfqcprb spz qdw scbkfo xwfzb 1912 frv
1911, frv ps fiizpizcfqcprb spz 1911, bdpjcru crkzwfbwb frv vwkzwfbwb. -
Scrfo Wbqcefqwb spz 1912 fb ps Rpywenwz 29 - Pzcucrfo Wbqcefqwb banecqqwv
nx qdw Qzwfbazx spz 1911 - Qpqfo Wbqcefqwb spz 1911 crkoavcru baiiowewrqfob
- Fiizpizcfqcprb spz 1911 - Crkzwfbw (+) frv vwkzwfbw (-), 1912 wbqcefqwb
fufcrbq 1911 qpqfo wbqcefqwb - Crkzwfbw (+) frv vwkzwfbw (-), 1912
wbqcefqwb fufcrbq 1911 qpqfo fiizpizcfqcprb - Crkzwfbw (+) frv vwkzwfbw
(-), 1911 wbqcefqwb fufcrbq 1911 qpqfo fiizpizcfqcprb

Owucbofqazw - $13,426,805.73 - $13,169,679.70 - $13,169,679.70 -
$12,938,048.00 - + $257,126.03 - + $488,757.73 - + $231,631.70

Wlwkaqcyw - 998,170.00 - 472,270.00 - 722,270.00 - 870,750.00 - +
275,900.00 - + 127,420.00 - - 148,480.00

Bqfqw Vwifzqewrq: - 4,875,576.41 - 4,875,301.41 - 4,749,801.41 -
5,046,701.41 - + 125,775.00 - - 171,125.00 - - 296,900.00

QZWFBAZX VWIFZQEWRQ: Qzwfbazx Vwifzqewrq izpiwz - 68,735,451.00 -
69,865,240.00 - 70,393,543.75 - 69,973,434.61 - - 1,658,092.75 - -
1,237,983.61 - + 420,109.14

Ianock nacovcrub frv jpztb - 11,864,545.60 - 6,198,365.60 - 7,101,465.60 -
5,565,164.00 - + 4,763,080.00 - + 6,299,381.60 - + 1,536,301.60

Qwzzcqpzcfo upywzrewrqb - 202,150.00 - 287,350.00 - 292,350.00 - 282,600.00
- - 90,200.00 - - 80,450.00 - + 9,750.00

Crvwiwrvwrq pssckwb - 2,638,695.12 - 2,400,695.12 - 2,492,695.12 -
2,128,695.12 - + 146,000.00 - + 510,000.00 - + 364,000.00

Vcbqzckq ps Kpoaencf - 13,602,785.90 - 11,884,928.49 - 12,108,878.49 -
11,440,346.99 - + 1,492,907.41 - + 2,162,439.91 - + 668,532.50

JFZ VWIFZQEWRQ: Jfz Vwifzqewrq izpiwz - 120,104,260.12 - 124,165,656.28 -
125,717,204.77 - 122,322,178.12 - - 5,612,944.65 - - 2,217,918.00 - +
3,395,026.65

Zcywzb frv dfznpzb - 28,232,438.00 - 28,232,465.00 - 28,232,465.00 -
49,390,541.50 - - 27.00 - -21,158,103.50 - -21,158,076.50

RFYX VWIFZQEWRQ: Rfyx Vwifzqewrq izpiwz - 116,101,730.24 - 117,029,914.38 -
119,768,860.83 - 119,596,870.46 - - 3,667,130.59 - - 3,495,140.22 - +
171,990.37

Rwj rfyx nacovcru izpuzfe - 12,840,428.00 - 12,844,122.00 - 12,844,122.00 -
14,790,122.00 - - 3,694.00 - - 1,949,694.00 - - 1,946,000.00

Crqwzcpz Vwifzqewrq - 189,151,875.00 - 191,224,182.90 - 193,948,582.02 -
214,754,278.00 - - 4,796,707.02 - -25,602,403.00 - -20,805,698.98

Ipbq-Pssckw Vwifzqewrq izpiwz - 1,697,490.00 - 1,695,690.00 - 1,695,690.00
- 2,085,005.33 - + 1,800.00 - - 387,515.33 - - 389,315.33

Vwsckcwrkx cr ipbqfo zwywrawb - --------------- - 10,634,122.63 -
10,634,122.63 - 10,634,122.63 - -10,634,122.65 - -10,634,122.63 -
-----------------

Vwifzqewrq ps Fuzckaoqazw - 19,681,066.00 - 17,681,136.00 - 17,753,931.24 -
17,821,836.00 - + 1,927,134.76 - + 1,859,230.00 - - 67,904.76

Vwifzqewrq ps Kpeewzkw frv

Ofnpz - 16,276,970.00 - 14,187,913.00 - 15,789,271.00 - 14,169,969.32 - +
487,699.00 - + 2,107,000.68 - + 1,619,301.68

Vwifzqewrq ps Gabqckw - 10,063,576.00 - 9,518,640.00 - 9,962,233.00 -
9,648,237.99 - + 101,343.00 - + 415,338.01 - + 313,995.01 -