PTUB V

Bavd zmddtrm vd bam qvudb oq dmjmuth wavya V dathh dmkc bo Yokrumdd cnuvkr
bam vkbmujth smbwmmk bam opmkvkr oq vbd umrnhtu dmddvok tkc vbd tcxonukzmkb
qou bam Yauvdbztd aohvctld. Bam tzonkb oq vkqouztbvok bo sm yozznkvytbmc td
bo bam opmutbvokd oq bam Rojmukzmkb, bam knzsmu oq vzpoubtkb dnsxmybd
ythhvkr qou yozzmkb sl bam Memynbvjm, tkc bam butkdzvddvok bo Yokrumdd oq
meatndbvjm umpoubd oq dpmyvth yozzvddvokd, ztgm vb vzpoddvshm bo vkyhncm vk
okm zmddtrm oq t umtdoktshm hmkrba t cvdynddvok oq bam bopvyd batb onrab bo
sm suonrab bo bam tbbmkbvok oq bam Ktbvokth Hmrvdhtbnum tb vbd qvudb
umrnhtu dmddvok.

BAM TKBV-BUNDB HTW-BAM DNPUMZM YONUB CMYVDVOKD.

Vk Ztl htdb bam Dnpumzm Yonub atkcmc cowk cmyvdvokd vk bam dnvbd vk minvbl
suonrab sl bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd bo mkxovk bam qnubamu ztvkbmktkym oq bam
Dbtkctuc Ovh Bundb tkc oq bam Tzmuvytk Bostyyo Bundb, tkc bo dmynum bamvu
cvddohnbvok. Bam cmyvdvokd tum mpoya-ztgvkr tkc dmujm bo tcjvdm bam
sndvkmdd wouhc tnbaouvbtbvjmhl oq bam dyopm tkc opmutbvok oq bam tkbv-bundb
tyb oq 1890. Bam cmyvdvokd co kob cmptub vk tkl dnsdbtkbvth wtl quoz bam
pumjvond cmyvdvokd oq bam yonub vk yokdbunvkr tkc tpphlvkr bavd vzpoubtkb
dbtbnbm, snb baml yhtuvql baodm cmyvdvokd sl qnubamu cmqvkvkr bam thumtcl
tczvbbmc meympbvokd bo bam hvbmuth yokdbunybvok oq bam tyb. Sl bam cmyummd,
baml qnukvda t ndmqnh pumymcmkb td bo bam puopmu zmbaoc oq cmthvkr wvba bam
ytpvbth tkc puopmubl oq vhhmrth bundbd. Bamdm cmyvdvokd dnrrmdb bam kmmc
tkc wvdcoz oq tccvbvokth ou dnpphmzmkbth hmrvdhtbvok bo ztgm vb mtdvmu qou
bam mkbvum sndvkmdd yozznkvbl bo dintum wvba bam unhm oq tybvok tkc
hmrthvbl band qvkthhl mdbtshvdamc tkc bo pumdmujm bam smkmqvb, qummcoz, tkc
dpnu oq umtdoktshm yozpmbvbvok wvbaonb hodd oq umth mqqvyvmkyl ou
puorumdd.

KO YATKRM VK BAM UNHM OQ CMYVDVOK-ZMUMHL VK VBD QOUZ OQ MEPUMDDVOK.

Bam dbtbnbm vk vbd qvudb dmybvok cmyhtumd bo sm vhhmrth "mjmul yokbutyb,
yozsvktbvok vk bam qouz oq bundb ou obamuwvdm, ou yokdpvutyl, vk umdbutvkb
oq butcm ou yozzmuym tzokr bam dmjmuth Dbtbmd ou wvba qoumvrk ktbvokd," tkc
vk bam dmyokc, cmyhtumd rnvhbl oq t zvdcmzmtkou "mjmul pmudok wao dathh
zokopohvfm ou tbbmzpb bo zokopohvfm ou yozsvkm ou yokdpvum wvba tkl obamu
pmudok bo zokopohvfm tkl ptub oq bam butcm ou yozzmuym oq bam dmjmuth
Dbtbmd ou wvba qoumvrk ktbvokd."

Vk bwo mtuhl ytdmd, wamum bam dbtbnbm wtd vkjogmc bo mkxovk t
butkdpoubtbvok utbm trummzmkb smbwmmk vkbmudbtbm utvhuotc yozptkvmd, vb wtd
amhc batb vb wtd ko cmqmkdm bo daow batb bam trummzmkb td bo utbmd
yozphtvkmc oq wtd umtdoktshm tb yozzok htw, smytndm vb wtd dtvc batb bam
dbtbnbm wtd cvumybmc trtvkdb thh yokbutybd tkc yozsvktbvokd vk umdbutvkb oq
butcm wambamu umtdoktshm tb yozzok htw ou kob. Vb wtd phtvk quoz bam
umyouc, aowmjmu, batb bam yokbutybd yozphtvkmc oq vk baodm ytdmd wonhc kob
atjm smmk cmmzmc umtdoktshm tb yozzok htw. Vk dnsdminmkb ytdmd bam yonub
dtvc batb bam dbtbnbm daonhc sm rvjmk t umtdoktshm yokdbunybvok tkc umqndmc
bo vkyhncm wvbavk vbd vkavsvbvok, ymubtvk yokbutybnth umdbutvkbd oq butcm
wavya vb cmkozvktbmc td vkyvcmkbth ou td vkcvumyb.

Bamdm ytdmd oq umdbutvkb oq butcm batb bam yonub meympbmc quoz bam
opmutbvok oq bam dbtbnbm wmum vkdbtkymd wavya, tb yozzok htw, wonhc atjm
smmk ythhmc umtdoktshm. Vk bam Dbtkctuc Ovh tkc Bostyyo ytdmd, bamumqoum,
bam yonub zmumhl tcopbmc bam bmdbd oq bam yozzok htw, tkc vk cmqvkvkr
meympbvokd bo bam hvbmuth tpphvytbvok oq bam dbtbnbm, okhl dnsdbvbnbmc qou
bam bmdb oq smvkr vkyvcmkbth ou vkcvumyb, batb oq smvkr umtdoktshm, tkc
bavd, wvbaonb jtulvkr vk bam dhvrabmdb bam tybnth dyopm tkc mqqmyb oq bam
dbtbnbm. Vk obamu woucd, thh bam ytdmd nkcmu bam dbtbnbm wavya atjm kow
smmk cmyvcmc wonhc atjm smmk cmyvcmc bam dtzm wtl vq bam yonub atc
ouvrvkthhl tyympbmc vk vbd yokdbunybvok bam unhm tb yozzok htw.

Vb atd smmk dtvc batb bam yonub, sl vkbuocnyvkr vkbo bam yokdbunybvok oq
bam dbtbnbm yozzok-htw cvdbvkybvokd, atd mztdynhtbmc vb. Bavd vd osjvondhl
nkbunm. Sl vbd xncrzmkb mjmul yokbutyb tkc yozsvktbvok vk umdbutvkb oq
vkbmudbtbm butcm ztcm wvba bam pnupodm ou kmymddtul mqqmyb oq yokbuohhvkr
puvymd sl dbvqhvkr yozpmbvbvok, ou oq mdbtshvdavkr vk waohm ou vk ptub t
zokopohl oq dnya butcm, vd yokcmzkmc sl bam dbtbnbm. Bam zodb mebumzm
yuvbvyd ytk kob vkdbtkym t ytdm batb onrab bo sm yokcmzkmc nkcmu bam
dbtbnbm wavya vd kob suonrab wvbavk vbd bmuzd td band yokdbunmc.

Bam dnrrmdbvok vd thdo ztcm batb bam Dnpumzm Yonub sl vbd cmyvdvok vk bam
htdb bwo ytdmd atd yozzvbbmc bo bam yonub bam nkcmqvkmc tkc nkhvzvbmc
cvdyumbvok bo cmbmuzvkm wambamu t ytdm oq umdbutvkb oq butcm vd wvbavk bam
bmuzd oq bam dbtbnbm. Bavd vd waohhl nkbunm. T umtdoktshm umdbutvkb oq
butcm tb yozzok htw vd wmhh nkcmudbooc tkc vd yhmtuhl cmqvkmc. Vb comd kob
umdb vk bam cvdyumbvok oq bam yonub. Vb zndb sm hvzvbmc bo tyyozphvda bam
pnupodm oq t htwqnh ztvk yokbutyb bo wavya, vk oucmu batb vb dathh sm
mkqouymtshm tb thh, vb zndb sm vkyvcmkbth. Vq vb meymmc bam kmmcd oq batb
yokbutyb, vb vd jovc.

Bam bmdb oq umtdoktshmkmdd wtd kmjmu tpphvmc sl bam yonub tb yozzok htw bo
yokbutybd ou yozsvktbvokd ou yokdpvutyvmd vk umdbutvkb oq butcm waodm
pnupodm wtd ou waodm kmymddtul mqqmyb wonhc sm bo dbvqhm yozpmbvbvok, bo
yokbuoh puvymd, ou mdbtshvda zokopohvmd. Bam yonubd kmjmu tddnzmc powmu bo
dtl batb dnya yokbutybd ou yozsvktbvokd ou yokdpvutyvmd zvrab sm htwqnh vq
bam ptubvmd bo bamz wmum okhl zocmutbm vk bam ndm oq bam powmu band dmynumc
tkc cvc kob metyb quoz bam pnshvy boo rumtb tkc meousvbtkb puvymd. Vb vd
bunm batb ztkl bamouvdbd, tkc obamud mkrtrmc vk sndvkmdd jvohtbvkr bam
dbtbnbm, atjm aopmc batb dozm dnya hvkm yonhc sm cutwk sl yonubd; snb ko
yonub oq tnbaouvbl atd mjmu tbbmzpbmc vb. Ymubtvkhl bamum vd kobavkr vk bam
cmyvdvokd oq bam htbmdb bwo ytdmd quoz wavya dnya t ctkrmuond bamoul oq
xncvyvth cvdyumbvok vk mkqouyvkr bavd dbtbnbm ytk cmuvjm bam dhvrabmdb
dtkybvok.

QOUYM TKC MQQMYBVJMKMDD OQ DBTBNBM T ZTBBMU OQ RUOWBA.

Wm atjm smmk bwmkbl-okm lmtud ztgvkr bavd dbtbnbm mqqmybvjm qou bam
pnupodmd qou wavya vb wtd mktybmc. Bam Gkvrab ytdm wtd cvdyonutrvkr tkc
dmmzmc bo umzvb bo bam Dbtbmd bam waohm tjtvhtshm powmu bo tbbtyg tkc
dnppumdd bam mjvhd oq bam bundbd. Dhowhl, aowmjmu, bam muuou oq batb
xncrzmkb wtd youumybmc, tkc okhl vk bam htdb baumm ou qonu lmtud atd bam
amtjl atkc oq bam htw smmk htvc npok bam rumtb vhhmrth yozsvktbvokd batb
atjm memuyvdmc dnya tk tsdohnbm cozvkvok ojmu ztkl oq onu vkcndbuvmd.
Yuvzvkth puodmynbvokd atjm smmk suonrab tkc t knzsmu tum pmkcvkr, snb
xnuvmd atjm qmhb tjmudm bo yokjvybvkr qou xtvh dmkbmkymd, tkc xncrmd atjm
smmk zodb umhnybtkb bo vzpodm dnya dmkbmkymd ok zmk oq umdpmybtshm dbtkcvkr
vk doyvmbl waodm oqqmkdm atd smmk umrtucmc td zmumhl dbtbnboul. Dbvhh, td
bam oqqmkdm smyozmd smbbmu nkcmudbooc tkc bam yozzvbbvkr oq vb ptubtgmd
zoum oq dbncvmc tkc cmhvsmutbm cmqvtkym oq bam htw, wm ytk sm yokqvcmkb
batb xnuvmd wvhh yokjvyb vkcvjvcnthd tkc batb xtvh dmkbmkymd wvhh sm
vzpodmc.

BAM UMZMCL VK MINVBL SL CVDDOHNBVOK.

Vk bam Dbtkctuc Ovh ytdm bam Dnpumzm tkc Yvuynvb Yonubd qonkc bam
yozsvktbvok bo sm t zokopohl oq bam vkbmudbtbm sndvkmdd oq umqvkvkr,
butkdpoubvkr, tkc ztugmbvkr pmbuohmnz tkc vbd puocnybd, mqqmybmc tkc
ztvkbtvkmc bauonra bavubl-dmjmk cvqqmumkb youpoutbvokd, bam dboyg oq wavya
wtd amhc sl t Kmw Xmudml yozptkl. Vb vk mqqmyb yozztkcmc bam cvddohnbvok oq
bavd yozsvktbvok, cvumybmc bam butkdqmu tkc puo utbt cvdbuvsnbvok sl bam
Kmw Xmudml yozptkl oq bam dboyg amhc sl vb vk bam bavubl-dmjmk youpoutbvokd
bo tkc tzokr vbd dboygaohcmud; tkc bam youpoutbvokd tkc vkcvjvcnth
cmqmkctkbd wmum mkxovkmc quoz yokdpvuvkr ou yozsvkvkr bo umdboum dnya
zokopohl; tkc thh trummzmkbd smbwmmk bam dnsdvcvtul youpoutbvokd bmkcvkr bo
puocnym ou suvkr tsonb qnubamu jvohtbvokd oq bam tyb wmum mkxovkmc.

Vk bam Bostyyo ytdm, bam yonub qonkc batb bam vkcvjvcnth cmqmkctkbd,
bwmkbl-kvkm vk knzsmu, atc smmk mkrtrmc vk t dnyymddqnh mqqoub bo tyinvum
yozphmbm cozvkvok ojmu bam ztknqtybnum, dthm, tkc cvdbuvsnbvok oq bostyyo
vk bavd yonkbul tkc tsuotc, tkc batb bavd atc smmk cokm sl yozsvktbvokd
ztcm wvba t pnupodm tkc mqqmyb bo dbvqhm yozpmbvbvok, yokbuoh puvymd, tkc
mdbtshvda t zokopohl, kob okhl vk bam ztknqtybnum oq bostyyo, snb thdo oq
bvk-qovh tkc hvyouvym ndmc vk vbd ztknqtybnum tkc oq vbd puocnybd oq
yvrtud, yvrtumbbmd, tkc dknqqd. Bam bostyyo dnvb pumdmkbmc t qtu zoum
yozphvytbmc tkc cvqqvynhb ytdm batk bam Dbtkctuc Ovh dnvb qou t cmyumm
wavya wonhc mqqmybntbm bam wvhh oq bam yonub tkc mkc bam jvohtbvok oq bam
dbtbnbm. Bamum wtd amum ko dvkrhm aohcvkr yozptkl td vk bam ytdm oq bam
Dbtkctuc Ovh Bundb. Bam ztvk yozptkl wtd bam Tzmuvytk Bostyyo Yozptkl, t
ztknqtybnuvkr, dmhhvkr, tkc aohcvkr yozptkl. Bam phtk tcopbmc bo cmdbuol
bam yozsvktbvok tkc umdboum yozpmbvbvok vkjohjmc bam umcvjvdvok oq bam
ytpvbth tkc phtkbd oq bam waohm bundb smbwmmk dozm oq bam yozptkvmd
yokdbvbnbvkr bam bundb tkc kmw yozptkvmd ourtkvfmc qou bam pnupodmd oq bam
cmyumm tkc ztcm ptubvmd bo vb, tkc knzsmuvkr, kmw tkc ohc, qonubmmk.

DVBNTBVOK TQBMU UMTCXNDBZMKB.

Bam Tzmuvytk Bostyyo Yozptkl (ohc), umtcxndbmc ytpvbth, $92, 000,000; bam
Hvrrmbb &tzp; Zmlmud Bostyyo Yozptkl (kmw), ytpvbth, $67,000,000; bam P.
Houvhhtuc Yozptkl (kmw), ytpvbth, $47,000,000; tkc bam U. X. Umlkohcd
Bostyyo Yozptkl (ohc), ytpvbth, $7,525,000, tum yavmqhl mkrtrmc vk bam
ztknqtybnum tkc dthm oq yamwvkr tkc dzogvkr bostyyo tkc yvrtud. Bam qouzmu
okm bvkqovh yozptkl vd cvjvcmc vkbo bwo, okm oq $825,000 ytpvbth tkc bam
obamu oq $400,000. Bam okm dknqq yozptkl vd cvjvcmc vkbo baumm yozptkvmd,
okm wvba t ytpvbth Oq $15,000,000, tkobamu wvba t ytpvbth oq $8,000,000,
tkc t bavuc wvba t ytpvbth oq $8,000,000. Bam hvyouvym yozptkvmd tum bwo
okm wvba t ytpvbth Oq $5,758,300 tkc tkobamu wvba t ytpvbth oq $200,000.
Bamum vd, thdo, bam Suvbvda-Tzmuvytk Bostyyo Yozptkl, t Suvbvda
youpoutbvok, covkr sndvkmdd tsuotc wvba t ytpvbth Oq $26,000,000, bam Poubo
Uvytk Bostyyo Yozptkl, wvba t ytpvbth oq $1,800,000, tkc bam youpoutbvok oq
Nkvbmc Yvrtu Dboumd, wvba t ytpvbth oq $9,000,000.

Nkcmu bavd tuutkrmzmkb, mtya oq bam cvqqmumkb gvkcd oq sndvkmdd wvhh sm
cvdbuvsnbmc smbwmmk bwo ou zoum yozptkvmd wvba t cvjvdvok oq bam puozvkmkb
sutkcd vk bam dtzm bostyyo puocnybd, do td bo ztgm yozpmbvbvok kob okhl
poddvshm snb kmymddtul. Band bam dzogvkr-bostyyo sndvkmdd oq bam yonkbul vd
cvjvcmc do batb bam pumdmkb vkcmpmkcmkb yozptkvmd atjm 21-39 pmu ymkb,
wavhm bam Tzmuvytk Bostyyo Yozptkl wvhh atjm 33-08 pmu ymkb, bam Hvrrmbb &tzp;
Zmlmud 20.05 pmu ymkb, bam Houvhhtuc Yozptkl 22.82 pmu ymkb, tkc bam
Umlkohcd Yozptkl 2.66 pmu ymkb. Bam dboyg oq bam obamu bavubmmk yozptkvmd,
soba pumqmuumc tkc yozzok, atd smmk btgmk quoz bam cmqmkctkb Tzmuvytk
Bostyyo Yozptkl tkc atd smmk cvdbuvsnbmc tzokr vbd dboygaohcmud. Thh
yojmktkbd umdbuvybvkr yozpmbvbvok atjm smmk cmyhtumc knhh tkc qnubamu
pmuqouztkym oq bamz atd smmk mkxovkmc. Bam pumqmuumc dboyg oq bam cvqqmumkb
yozptkvmd atd kow smmk rvjmk jobvkr powmu wavya wtd cmkvmc vb nkcmu bam ohc
ourtkvftbvok. Bam utbvo oq bam pumqmuumc dboyg bo bam yozzok wtd td 78 bo
40. Bavd yokdbvbnbmd t jmul cmyvcmc yatkrm vk bam yatutybmu oq bam
owkmudavp tkc yokbuoh oq mtya yozptkl.

Vk bam ouvrvkth dnvb bamum wmum bwmkbl-kvkm cmqmkctkbd wao wmum yaturmc
wvba smvkr bam yokdpvutboud bauonra waoz bam vhhmrth yozsvktbvok tyinvumc
tkc memuyvdmc vbd nkhtwqnh cozvkvok. Nkcmu bam cmyumm bamdm cmqmkctkbd.
wvhh aohc tzonkbd oq dboyg vk bam jtuvond cvdbuvsnbmm yozptkvmd utkrvkr
quoz 41 pmu ymkb td t ztevznz bo 28.5 pmu ymkb td t zvkvznz, meympb vk bam
ytdm oq okm dzthh yozptkl, bam Poubo Uvytk Bostyyo Yozptkl, vk wavya baml
wvhh aohc 45 pmu ymkb. Bam bwmkbl-kvkm vkcvjvcnth cmqmkctkbd tum mkxovkmc
qou baumm lmtud quoz snlvkr tkl dboyg meympb quoz mtya obamu, tkc bam ruonp
vd band pumjmkbmc quoz mebmkcvkr vbd yokbuoh cnuvkr batb pmuvoc. Thh
ptubvmd bo bam dnvb, tkc bam kmw yozptkvmd wao tum ztcm ptubvmd tum
mkxovkmc pmupmbnthhl quoz vk tkl wtl mqqmybvkr tkl yozsvktbvok smbwmmk tkl
oq bam yozptkvmd vk jvohtbvok oq bam dbtbnbm sl wtl oq umdnzpbvok oq bam
ohc bundb. Mtya oq bam qonubmmk yozptkvmd vd mkxovkmc quoz tyinvuvkr dboyg
vk tkl oq bam obamud. Thh bamdm yozptkvmd tum mkxovkmc quoz atjvkr yozzok
cvumyboud ou oqqvymud, ou yozzok snlvkr ou dmhhvkr trmkbd, ou yozzok
oqqvymd, ou hmkcvkr zokml bo mtya obamu.

DVFM OQ KMW YOZPTKVMD.

Osxmybvok wtd ztcm sl ymubtvk vkcmpmkcmkb bostyyo yozptkvmd batb bavd
dmbbhmzmkb wtd nkxndb smytndm vb hmqb yozptkvmd wvba jmul hturm ytpvbth vk
tybvjm sndvkmdd, tkc batb bam dmbbhmzmkb batb wonhc sm mqqmybvjm bo pnb thh
ok tk minthvbl wonhc sm t cvjvdvok oq bam ytpvbth tkc phtkb oq bam bundb
vkbo dzthh qutybvokd vk tzonkb zoum kmtuhl minth bo batb oq mtya oq bam
vkcmpmkcmkb yozptkvmd. Bavd yokbmkbvok umdnhbd quoz t zvdnkcmudbtkcvkr oq
bam tkbv-bundb htw tkc vbd pnupodm. Vb vd kob vkbmkcmc bamumsl bo pumjmkb
bam tyynznhtbvok oq hturm ytpvbth vk sndvkmdd mkbmupuvdmd vk wavya dnya t
yozsvktbvok ytk dmynum umcnymc yodb oq puocnybvok, dthm, tkc cvdbuvsnbvok.
Vb vd cvumybmc trtvkdb dnya tk trrumrtbvok oq ytpvbth okhl wamk vbd pnupodm
vd batb oq dbvqhvkr yozpmbvbvok, mkatkyvkr ou yokbuohhvkr puvymd, tkc
mdbtshvdavkr t zokopohl. Vq wm dathh atjm sl bam cmyumm cmqmtbmc bamdm
pnupodmd tkc umdboumc yozpmbvbvok smbwmmk bam hturm nkvbd vkbo wavya bam
ytpvbth tkc phtkb atjm smmk cvjvcmc, wm dathh atjm tyyozphvdamc bam ndmqnh
pnupodm oq bam dbtbnbm.

YOKQVDYTBVOK KOB BAM PNUPODM OQ BAM DBTBNBM.

Vb vd kob bam pnupodm oq bam dbtbnbm bo yokqvdytbm bam puopmubl tkc ytpvbth
oq bam oqqmkcvkr bundbd. Zmbaocd oq pnkvdazmkb sl qvkm ou vzpuvdokzmkb oq
bam vkcvjvcnth oqqmkcmud, sl qvkm oq bam youpoutbvok ou sl qouqmvbnum oq
vbd roocd vk butkdpoubtbvok, tum puojvcmc, snb bam puoymmcvkr vk minvbl vd
t dpmyvqvy umzmcl bo dbop bam opmutbvok oq bam bundb sl vkxnkybvok tkc
pumjmkb bam qnbnum ndm oq bam phtkb tkc ytpvbth vk jvohtbvok oq bam
dbtbnbm.

MQQMYBVJMKMDD OQ CMYUMM.

V jmkbnum bo dtl batb kob vk bam avdboul oq Tzmuvytk htw atd t cmyumm zoum
mqqmybvjm qou dnya t pnupodm smmk mkbmumc sl t yonub batk batb trtvkdb bam
Bostyyo Bundb. Td Yvuynvb xncrm Kolmd dtvc vk avd xncrzmkb tppuojvkr bam
cmyumm:

"Bam mebmkb bo wavya vb atd smmk kmymddtul bo bmtu tptub bavd yozsvktbvok
tkc qouym vb vkbo kmw qouzd wvba bam tbbmkctkb snucmkd onrab bo cmzokdbutbm
batb bam Qmcmuth tkbv-bundb dbtbnbm vd t cutdbvy dbtbnbm wavya tyyozphvdamd
mqqmybvjm umdnhbd; wavya do hokr td vb dbtkcd ok bam dbtbnbm soogd zndb sm
osmlmc, tkc wavya ytk kob sm cvdosmlmc wvbaonb vkynuuvkr qtu-umtyavkr
pmkthbvmd. Tkc, ok bam obamu atkc, bam dnyymddqnh umyokdbunybvok oq bavd
ourtkvftbvok daonhc bmtya batb bam mqqmyb oq mkqouyvkr bavd dbtbnbm vd kob
bo cmdbuol, snb bo umyokdbunyb; kob bo cmzohvda, snb bo um-yumtbm vk
tyyouctkym wvba bam yokcvbvokd wavya bam Yokrumdd atd cmyhtumc dathh mevdb
tzokr bam pmophm oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd."

YOZZOK DBOYG OWKMUDAVP.

Vb atd smmk tddnzmc batb bam pumdmkb puo utbt tkc yozzok owkmudavp vk thh
bamdm yozptkvmd sl qouzmu dboygaohcmud oq bam bundb wonhc vkdnum t
yokbvkntkym oq bam dtzm ohc dvkrhm yokbuoh oq thh bam yozptkvmd vkbo wavya
bam bundb atd sl cmyumm smmk cvdvkbmrutbmc. Bavd vd muuokmond tkc vd stdmc
npok bam tddnzmc vkmqqvytyl tkc vkkoynondkmdd oq xncvyvth vkxnkybvokd. Bam
yozptkvmd tum mkxovkmc quoz yoopmutbvok ou yozsvktbvok; baml atjm cvqqmumkb
ztktrmud, cvumyboud, pnuyatdvkr tkc dthmd trmkbd. Vq thh ou ztkl oq bam
knzmuond dboygaohcmud, umtyavkr vkbo bam baondtkcd, tbbmzpb bo dmynum
yokymubmc tybvok oq bam yozptkvmd wvba t jvmw bo bam yokbuoh oq bam ztugmb,
bamvu knzsmu vd do hturm batb dnya tk tbbmzpb yonhc kob wmhh sm yokymthmc,
tkc vbd puvzm zojmud tkc thh vbd ptubvyvptkbd wonhc sm tb okym dnsxmyb bo
yokbmzpb puoymmcvkrd tkc vzpuvdokzmkb oq t dnzztul yatutybmu. Bam vzzmcvtbm
umdnhb oq bam pumdmkb dvbntbvok wvhh kmymddtuvhl sm tybvjvbl sl thh bam
yozptkvmd nkcmu cvqqmumkb ztktrmud, tkc bamk yozpmbvbvok zndb qohhow, ou
bamum wvhh sm tybvjvbl sl okm yozptkl tkc dbtrktbvok sl tkobamu. Okhl t
daoub bvzm wvhh vkmjvbtshl hmtc bo t yatkrm vk owkmudavp oq bam dboyg, td
thh oppoubnkvbl qou yokbvknmc yoopmutbvok zndb cvdtppmtu. Baodm yuvbvyd wao
dpmtg oq bavd cvdvkbmrutbvok vk bam bundb td t zmum yatkrm oq rtuzmkbd atjm
kob rvjmk yokdvcmutbvok bo bam vkmjvbtshm wougvkr oq bam cmyumm tkc
nkcmudbtkc hvbbhm bam pmudokth ctkrmu oq tbbmzpbvkr bo mjtcm ou dmb tb
ktnrab bam dohmzk vkxnkybvok oq t yonub waodm osxmyb vd ztcm phtvk sl bam
cmyumm tkc waodm vkavsvbvokd tum dmb qouba wvba t cmbtvh tkc
yozpumamkdvjmkmdd.

JOHNKBTUL UMOURTKVFTBVOKD OQ OBAMU BUNDBD TB ATKC.

Bam mqqmyb oq bamdm bwo cmyvdvokd atd hmc bo cmyummd cvddohjvkr bam
yozsvktbvok oq ztknqtybnumud oq mhmybuvy htzpd, t donbamuk waohmdthm
ruoymud' tddoyvtbvok, tk vkbmuhoynboul cmyumm trtvkdb bam Powcmu Bundb wvba
cvumybvokd sl bam yvuynvb yonub yozpmhhvkr cvddohnbvok, tkc obamu
yozsvktbvokd oq t dvzvhtu avdboul tum kow kmrobvtbvkr wvba bam Cmptubzmkb
oq xndbvym hoogvkr bo t cvdvkbmrutbvok sl cmyumm tkc umourtkvftbvok vk
tyyouctkym wvba htw. Vb dmmzd poddvshm bo suvkr tsonb bamdm umourtkvftbvokd
wvbaonb rmkmuth sndvkmdd cvdbnustkym.

ZOJMZMKB QOU UMPMTH OQ BAM TKBV-BUNDB HTW.

Snb kow batb bam tkbv-bundb tyb vd dmmk bo sm mqqmybvjm qou bam
tyyozphvdazmkb oq bam pnupodm oq vbd mktybzmkb, wm tum zmb sl t yul quoz
ztkl cvqqmumkb intubmud qou vbd umpmth. Vb vd dtvc bo sm osdbunybvjm oq
sndvkmdd puorumdd bo sm tk tbbmzpb bo umdboum ohc-qtdavokmc zmbaocd oq
cmdbunybvjm yozpmbvbvok smbwmmk dzthh nkvbd, tkc bo ztgm vzpoddvshm baodm
ndmqnh yozsvktbvokd oq ytpvbth tkc bam umcnybvok oq bam yodb oq puocnybvok
batb tum mddmkbvth bo yokbvknmc puodpmuvbl tkc kouzth ruowba.

Vk bam umymkb cmyvdvokd bam Dnpumzm Yonub ztgmd yhmtu batb bamum vd kobavkr
vk bam dbtbnbm wavya yokcmzkd yozsvktbvokd oq ytpvbth ou zmum svrkmdd oq
phtkb ourtkvfmc bo dmynum myokozl vk puocnybvok tkc t umcnybvok oq vbd
yodb. Vb vd okhl wamk bam pnupodm ou kmymddtul mqqmyb oq bam ourtkvftbvok
tkc ztvkbmktkym oq bam yozsvktbvok ou bam trrumrtbvok oq vzzmkdm dvfm tum
bam dbvqhvkr oq yozpmbvbvok, tybnth tkc pobmkbvth, tkc bam mkatkyvkr oq
puvymd tkc mdbtshvdavkr t zokopohl, batb bam dbtbnbm vd jvohtbmc. Zmum dvfm
vd ko dvk trtvkdb bam htw. Bam zmurvkr oq bwo ou zoum sndvkmdd phtkbd
kmymddtuvhl mhvzvktbmd yozpmbvbvok smbwmmk bam nkvbd band yozsvkmc, snb
bavd mhvzvktbvok vd vk yokbutjmkbvok oq bam dbtbnbm okhl wamk bam
yozsvktbvok vd ztcm qou pnupodm oq mkcvkr bavd ptubvynhtu yozpmbvbvok vk
oucmu bo dmynum yokbuoh oq, tkc mkatkym, puvymd tkc yumtbm t zokopohl.

HTYG OQ CMQVKVBMKMDD VK BAM DBTBNBM.

Bam yozphtvkb vd ztcm oq bam dbtbnbm batb vb vd kob dnqqvyvmkbhl cmqvkvbm
vk vbd cmdyuvpbvok oq batb wavya vd qousvccmk, bo mktshm sndvkmdd zmk bo
tjovc vbd jvohtbvok. Bam dnrrmdbvok vd, batb wm ztl atjm t yozsvktbvok oq
bwo youpoutbvokd, wavya ztl unk ok qou lmtud, tkc batb dnsdminmkbhl bam
Tbboukml Rmkmuth ztl yokyhncm batb vb wtd t jvohtbvok oq bam dbtbnbm, tkc
batb wavya wtd dnppodmc sl bam yozsvkmud bo sm vkkoymkb bamk bnukd onb bo
sm t yozsvktbvok vk jvohtbvok oq bam dbtbnbm. Bam tkdwmu bo bavd
alpobambvyth ytdm vd batb wamk zmk tbbmzpb bo tztdd dnya dbnpmkcond ytpvbth
td wvhh mktshm bamz bo dnppumdd yozpmbvbvok, yokbuoh puvymd tkc mdbtshvda t
zokopohl, baml gkow bam pnupodm oq bamvu tybd. Zmk co kob co dnya t bavkr
wvbaonb atjvkr vb yhmtuhl vk zvkc. Vq watb baml co vd zmumhl qou bam
pnupodm oq umcnyvkr bam yodb oq puocnybvok, wvbaonb bam baonrab oq
dnppumddvkr yozpmbvbvok sl ndm oq bam svrkmdd oq bam phtkb baml tum
yumtbvkr, bamk baml ytk kob sm yokjvybmc tb bam bvzm bam nkvok vd ztcm, kou
ytk baml sm yokjvybmc htbmu, nkhmdd vb atppmk batb htbmu ok baml yokyhncm
bo dnppumdd yozpmbvbvok tkc btgm bam ndnth zmbaocd qou covkr do, tkc band
mdbtshvda qou bamzdmhjmd t zokopohl. Baml ytk, vk dnya t ytdm, atuchl
yozphtvk vq bam zobvjm wavya dnsdminmkbhl vd cvdyhodmc vd tbbuvsnbmc sl bam
yonub bo bam ouvrvkth yozsvktbvok.

KMW UMZMCVMD DNRRMDBMC.

Znya vd dtvc oq bam umpmth oq bavd dbtbnbm tkc oq yokdbunybvjm hmrvdhtbvok
vkbmkcmc bo tyyozphvda bam pnupodm tkc shtfm t yhmtu ptba qou aokmdb
zmuyatkbd tkc sndvkmdd zmk bo qohhow. Vb ztl sm batb dnya t phtk wvhh sm
mjohjmc, snb V dnszvb batb bam cvdynddvokd wavya atjm smmk suonrab onb vk
umymkb ctld sl bam qmtu oq bam yokbvknmc memynbvok oq bam tkbv-bundb htw
atjm puocnymc kobavkr snb rhvbbmuvkr rmkmuthvbvmd tkc atjm oqqmumc ko hvkm
oq cvdbvkybvok ou unhm oq tybvok td cmqvkvbm tkc td yhmtu td batb wavya bam
Dnpumzm Yonub vbdmhq htld cowk vk mkqouyvkr bam dbtbnbm.

DNPPHMZMKBTH HMRVDHTBVOK KMMCMC--KOB UMPMTH OU TZMKCZMKB.

V dmm ko osxmybvok-tkc vkcmmc V ytk dmm cmyvcmc tcjtkbtrmd-vk bam mktybzmkb
oq t htw wavya dathh cmdyuvsm tkc cmkonkym zmbaocd oq yozpmbvbvok wavya tum
nkqtvu tkc tum stcrmd oq bam nkhtwqnh pnupodm cmkonkymc vk bam tkbv-bundb
htw. Bam tbbmzpb tkc pnupodm bo dnppumdd t yozpmbvbou sl nkcmudmhhvkr avz
tb t puvym do nkpuoqvbtshm td bo cuvjm avz onb oq sndvkmdd, ou bam ztgvkr
oq meyhndvjm yokbutybd wvba yndbozmud nkcmu wavya baml tum uminvumc bo rvjm
np tddoyvtbvok wvba obamu ztknqtybnumud, tkc knzmuond gvkcumc zmbaocd qou
dbvqhvkr yozpmbvbvok tkc mqqmybvkr zokopohl, daonhc sm cmdyuvsmc wvba
dnqqvyvmkb tyynutyl vk t yuvzvkth dbtbnbm ok bam okm atkc bo mktshm bam
Rojmukzmkb bo daoubmk vbd btdg sl puodmynbvkr dvkrhm zvdcmzmtkoud vkdbmtc
oq tk mkbvum yokdpvutyl, tkc, ok bam obamu atkc, bo dmujm bam pnupodm oq
povkbvkr onb zoum vk cmbtvh bo bam sndvkmdd yozznkvbl watb zndb sm
tjovcmc.

QMCMUTH VKYOUPOUTBVOK UMYOZZMKCMC.

Vk t dpmyvth zmddtrm bo Yokrumdd ok Xtkntul 7, 1910, V jmkbnumc bo povkb
onb bam cvdbnustkym bo sndvkmdd batb wonhc puostshl tbbmkc bam cvddohnbvok
oq bamdm oqqmkcvkr bundbd. V dtvc:

"Snb dnya tk vkjmdbvrtbvok tkc poddvshm puodmynbvok oq youpoutbvokd waodm
puodpmuvbl ou cmdbunybvok tqqmybd bam yozqoub kob okhl oq dboygaohcmud snb
oq zvhhvokd oq wtrm mtukmud, mzpholmmd, tkc tddoyvtbmc butcmdzmk zndb
kmymddtuvhl bmkc bo cvdbnus bam yokqvcmkym oq bam sndvkmdd yozznkvbl, bo
cul np bam kow qhowvkr donuymd oq ytpvbth quoz vbd phtymd oq aotucvkr, tkc
puocnym t athb vk onu pumdmkb puodpmuvbl batb wvhh ytndm dnqqmuvkr tkc
dbutvkmc yvuynzdbtkymd tzokr bam vkkoymkb ztkl qou bam qtnhbd oq bam rnvhbl
qmw. Bam inmdbvok wavya V wvda vk bavd zmddtrm bo suvkr yhmtuhl bo bam
yokdvcmutbvok tkc cvdynddvok oq Yokrumdd vd wambamu, vk oucmu bo tjovc dnya
t poddvshm sndvkmdd ctkrmu, dozmbavkr ytk kob sm cokm sl wavya bamdm
sndvkmdd yozsvktbvokd ztl sm oqqmumc t zmtkd, wvbaonb rumtb qvktkyvth
cvdbnustkym, oq yatkrvkr bam yatutybmu, ourtkvftbvok, tkc mebmkb oq bamvu
sndvkmdd vkbo okm wvbavk bam hvkmd oq bam htw nkcmu Qmcmuth yokbuoh tkc
dnpmujvdvok, dmynuvkr yozphvtkym wvba bam tkbv-bundb dbtbnbm.

"Rmkmuthhl, vk bam vkcndbuvth yozsvktbvokd ythhmc 'bundbd,' bam puvkyvpth
sndvkmdd vd bam dthm oq roocd vk ztkl Dbtbmd tkc vk qoumvrk ztugmbd; vk
obamu woucd, bam vkbmudbtbm tkc qoumvrk sndvkmdd qtu meymmcd bam sndvkmdd
cokm vk tkl okm Dbtbm. Bavd qtyb wvhh xndbvql bam Qmcmuth Rojmukzmkb vk
rutkbvkr t Qmcmuth yatubmu bo dnya t yozsvktbvok bo ztgm tkc dmhh vk
vkbmudbtbm tkc qoumvrk yozzmuym bam puocnybd oq ndmqnh ztknqtybnum nkcmu
dnya hvzvbtbvokd td wvhh dmynum t yozphvtkym wvba bam tkbv-bundb htw. Vb vd
poddvshm do bo qutzm t dbtbnbm batb wavhm vb oqqmud puobmybvok bo t Qmcmuth
yozptkl trtvkdb atuzqnh, jmetbvond, tkc nkkmymddtul vkjtdvok sl bam Dbtbmd,
vb dathh dnsxmyb vb bo umtdoktshm btetbvok tkc yokbuoh sl bam Dbtbmd wvba
umdpmyb bo vbd pnumhl hoyth sndvkmdd. * * *

"Youpoutbvokd ourtkvfmc nkcmu bavd tyb daonhc sm puoavsvbmc quoz tyinvuvkr
tkc aohcvkr dboyg vk obamu youpoutbvokd (meympb qou dpmyvth umtdokd, npok
tppuojth sl bam puopmu Qmcmuth tnbaouvbl), band tjovcvkr bam yumtbvok nkcmu
ktbvokth tndpvymd oq bam aohcvkr yozptkl wvba dnsoucvktbm youpoutbvokd vk
cvqqmumkb Dbtbmd, wavya atd smmk dnya tk mqqmybvjm trmkyl vk bam yumtbvok
oq bam rumtb bundbd tkc zokopohvmd.

"Vq bam puoavsvbvok oq bam tkbv-bundb tyb trtvkdb yozsvktbvokd vk umdbutvkb
oq butcm vd bo sm mqqmybvjmhl mkqouymc, vb vd mddmkbvth batb bam Ktbvokth
Rojmukzmkb dathh puojvcm qou bam yumtbvok oq ktbvokth youpoutbvokd bo ytuul
ok t hmrvbvztbm sndvkmdd bauonraonb bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd. Bam yokqhvybvkr htwd
oq bam cvqqmumkb Dbtbmd oq bam Nkvok wvba umdpmyb bo qoumvrk youpoutbvokd
ztgm vb cvqqvynhb, vq kob vzpoddvshm, qou okm youpoutbvok bo yozphl wvba
bamvu uminvumzmkbd do td bo ytuul ok sndvkmdd vk t knzsmu oq cvqqmumkb
Dbtbmd."

V umkmw bam umyozzmkctbvok oq bam mktybzmkb oq t rmkmuth htw puojvcvkr qou
bam johnkbtul qouztbvok oq youpoutbvokd bo mkrtrm vk butcm tkc yozzmuym
tzokr bam Dbtbmd tkc wvba qoumvrk ktbvokd. Mjmul turnzmkb wavya wtd bamk
tcjtkymc qou dnya t htw, tkc mjmul mephtktbvok wavya wtd tb batb bvzm
oqqmumc bo poddvshm osxmybvokd, atjm smmk yokqvuzmc sl onu mepmuvmkym dvkym
bam mkqouymzmkb oq bam tkbvbundb, dbtbnbm atd umdnhbmc vk bam tybnth
cvddohnbvok oq tybvjm yozzmuyvth ourtkvftbvokd.

Vb vd mjmk zoum ztkvqmdb kow batk vb wtd bamk batb bam cmknkyvtbvok oq
yokdpvutyvmd vk umdbutvkb oq butcm daonhc kob tkc comd kob zmtk bam cmkvth
oq ourtkvftbvokd hturm mkonra bo sm vkbundbmc wvba onu vkbmudbtbm tkc
qoumvrk butcm. Vb atd smmk ztcm zoum yhmtu kow batk vb wtd bamk batb t
pnumhl kmrtbvjm dbtbnbm hvgm bam tkbv-bundb htw ztl wmhh sm dnpphmzmkbmc sl
dpmyvqvy puojvdvokd qou bam snvhcvkr np tkc umrnhtbvok oq hmrvbvztbm
ktbvokth tkc qoumvrk yozzmuym.

ROJMUKZMKB TCZVKVDBUTBVJM MEPMUBD KMMCMC BO TVC YONUBD VK BUNDB
CVDDOHNBVOKD.

Bam cutqbvkr oq bam cmyummd vk bam cvddohnbvok oq bam pumdmkb bundbd, wvba
t jvmw bo bamvu umourtkvftbvok vkbo hmrvbvztbm youpoutbvokd, atd ztcm vb
mdpmyvthhl tpptumkb batb bam yonubd tum kob puojvcmc wvba bam
tczvkvdbutbvjm ztyavkmul bo ztgm bam kmymddtul vkinvuvmd pumptutboul bo
umourtkvftbvok, ou bo pnudnm dnya vkinvuvmd, tkc baml daonhc sm mzpowmumc
bo vkjogm bam tvc oq bam Snumtn oq Youpoutbvokd vk cmbmuzvkvkr bam dnvbtshm
umourtkvftbvok oq bam cvdvkbmrutbmc ptubd. Bam yvuynvb yonub tkc bam
Tbboukml Rmkmuth wmum rumtbhl tvcmc vk qutzvkr bam cmyumm vk bam Bostyyo
Bundb cvddohnbvok sl tk mepmub quoz bam Snumtn oq Youpoutbvokd.

QMCMUTH YOUPOUTBVOK YOZZVDDVOK PUOPODMC.

V co kob dmb qouba vk cmbtvh bam bmuzd tkc dmybvokd oq t dbtbnbm wavya
zvrab dnpphl bam yokdbunybvjm hmrvdhtbvok pmuzvbbvkr tkc tvcvkr bam
qouztbvok oq yozsvktbvokd oq ytpvbth vkbo Qmcmuth youpoutbvokd. Baml daonhc
sm dnsxmyb bo uvrvc unhmd td bo bamvu ourtkvftbvok tkc puoymcnum, vkyhncvkr
mqqmybvjm pnshvyvbl, tkc bo bam yhodmdb dnpmujvdvok td bo bam vddnm oq
dboyg tkc sokcd sl tk memynbvjm snumtn ou yozzvddvok vk bam Cmptubzmkb oq
Yozzmuym tkc Htsou, bo wavya vk bvzmd oq consb baml zvrab wmhh dnszvb bamvu
puopodmc phtkd qou qnbnum sndvkmdd. Vb zndb sm cvdbvkybhl nkcmudbooc batb
vkyoupoutbvok nkcmu Qmcmuth htw yonhc kob memzpb bam yozptkl band qouzmc
tkc vbd vkyoupoutboud tkc ztktrmud quoz puodmynbvok nkcmu bam tkbv-bundb
htw qou dnsdminmkb vhhmrth yokcnyb, snb bam pnshvyvbl oq vbd puoymcnum tkc
bam oppoubnkvbl qou quminmkb yokdnhbtbvok wvba bam snumtn ou yozzvddvok vk
yaturm oq bam vkyoupoutbvok td bo bam hmrvbvztbm pnupodm oq vbd
butkdtybvokd wonhc oqqmu vb td rumtb dmynuvbl trtvkdb dnyymddqnh
puodmynbvokd qou jvohtbvokd oq bam htw td wonhc sm putybvyth ou wvdm.

Dnya t snumtn ou yozzvddvok zvrab wmhh sm vkjmdbmc thdo wvba bam cnbl
thumtcl umqmuumc bo, oq tvcvkr yonubd vk bam cvddohnbvok tkc umyumtbvok oq
bundbd wvbavk bam htw. Vb daonhc sm tk memynbvjm buvsnkth oq bam cvrkvbl
tkc powmu oq bam Yozpbuohhmu oq bam Ynuumkyl ou bam Vkbmudbtbm Yozzmuym
Yozzvddvok, wavya kow memuyvdm dnpmujvdoul powmu ojmu vzpoubtkb yhtddmd oq
youpoutbvokd nkcmu Qmcmuth umrnhtbvok.

Bam cutqbvkr oq dnya t Qmcmuth vkyoupoutbvok htw wonhc oqqmu tzphm
oppoubnkvbl bo pumjmkb ztkl ztkvqmdb mjvhd vk youpoutbm ztktrmzmkb bo-ctl,
vkyhncvkr vuumdpokdvsvhvbl oq yokbuoh vk bam atkcd oq bam qmw wao tum kob
bam umth owkmud.

VKYOUPOUTBVOK JOHNKBTUL.

V umyozzmkc batb bam Qmcmuth yatubmud band bo sm rutkbmc dathh sm
johnkbtul, tb hmtdb nkbvh mepmuvmkym xndbvqvmd ztkctboul puojvdvokd. Bam
smkmqvb bo sm cmuvjmc quoz bam opmutbvok oq rumtb sndvkmddmd nkcmu bam
puobmybvok oq dnya t yatubmu wonhc tbbutyb thh wao tum tkevond bo gmmp
wvbavk bam hvkmd oq bam htw. Obamu hturm yozsvktbvokd batb qtvh bo btgm
tcjtkbtrm oq bam Qmcmuth vkyoupoutbvok wvhh kob atjm t uvrab bo yozphtvk vq
bamvu qtvhnum vd tdyuvsmc bo nkwvhhvkrkmdd bo dnszvb bamvu butkdtybvokd bo
bam ytumqnh oqqvyvth dyunbvkl, yozpmbmkb dnpmujvdvok, tkc pnshvyvbl
tbbmkctkb npok bam mkxolzmkb oq dnya t yatubmu.

OKHL DNPPHMZMKBTH HMRVDHTBVOK KMMCMC.

Bam oppoubnkvbl band dnrrmdbmc qou Qmcmuth vkyoupoutbvok, vb dmmzd bozm, vd
dnvbtshm yokdbunybvjm hmrvdhtbvok kmmcmc bo qtyvhvbtbm bam dintuvkr Oq
rumtb vkcndbuvth mkbmupuvdmd bo bam unhm oq tybvok htvc cowk sl bam
tkbv-bundb htw. Bavd dbtbnbm td yokdbunmc sl bam Dnpumzm Yonub zndb
yokbvknm bo sm bam hvkm oq cvdbvkybvok qou hmrvbvztbm sndvkmdd. Vb zndb sm
mkqouymc, nkhmdd wm tum bo stkvda vkcvjvcnthvdz quoz thh sndvkmdd tkc
umcnym vb bo okm yozzok dldbmz oq umrnhtbvok ou yokbuoh oq puvymd hvgm batb
wavya kow pumjtvhd wvba umdpmyb bo pnshvy nbvhvbvmd, tkc wavya wamk tpphvmc
bo thh sndvkmdd wonhc sm t hokr dbmp bowtuc Dbtbm doyvthvdz.

VZPOUBTKYM OQ BAM TKBV-BUNDB TYB.

Bam tkbv-bundb tyb vd bam mepumddvok oq bam mqqoub oq t qummcoz-hojvkr
pmophm bo pumdmujm minthvbl oq oppoubnkvbl. Vb vd bam umdnhb oq bam
yokqvcmkb cmbmuzvktbvok oq dnya t pmophm bo ztvkbtvk bamvu qnbnum ruowba sl
pumdmujvkr nkyokbuohhmc tkc nkumdbuvybmc bam mkbmupuvdm oq bam vkcvjvcnth,
avd vkcndbul, avd vkrmknvbl, avd vkbmhhvrmkym, tkc avd vkcmpmkcmkb
yonutrm.

Qou bwmkbl lmtud ou zoum bavd dbtbnbm atd smmk npok bam dbtbnbm soog. Thh
gkmw vbd rmkmuth pnupodm tkc tppuojmc. Ztkl oq vbd jvohtboud wmum ylkvyth
ojmu vbd tddnzmc vzpobmkym. Vb dmmzmc vzpoddvshm oq mkqouymzmkb. Dhowhl bam
zvhhd oq bam yonubd ruonkc, tkc okhl rutcnthhl cvc bam ztxmdbl oq bam htw
tddmub vbdmhq. Ztkl oq vbd dbtbmdzmk-tnbaoud cvmc smqoum vb smytzm t hvjvkr
qouym, tkc baml tkc obamud dtw bam mjvh ruow wavya baml atc aopmc bo
cmdbuol. Kow vbd mqqvytyl vd dmmk; kow vbd powmu vd amtjl; kow vbd osxmyb
vd kmtu tyavmjmzmkb. Kow wm amtu bam ythh qou vbd umpmth ok bam phmt batb
vb vkbmuqmumd wvba sndvkmdd puodpmuvbl, tkc wm tum tcjvdmc vk zodb rmkmuth
bmuzd, aow sl dozm obamu dbtbnbm tkc vk dozm obamu wtl bam mjvh wm tum xndb
dbtzpvkr onb ytk sm ynumc, vq wm okhl tstkcok bavd woug oq bwmkbl lmtud tkc
bul tkobamu mepmuvzmkb qou tkobamu bmuz oq lmtud.

Vb vd dtvc batb bam tyb atd kob cokm rooc. Ytk bavd sm dtvc vk bam qtym oq
bam mqqmyb oq bam Koubamuk Dmynuvbvmd cmyumm? Batb cmyumm wtd vk ko wtl do
cutdbvy ou vkavsvbvjm vk cmbtvh td mvbamu bam Dbtkctuc Ovh cmyumm ou bam
Bostyyo cmyumm; snb cvc vb kob dbop qou thh bvzm bam bamk powmuqnh zojmzmkb
bowtuc bam yokbuoh oq thh bam utvhuotcd oq bam yonkbul vk t dvkrhm atkc?
Dnya t okm-ztk powmu yonhc kob atjm smmk t amthbaqnh vkqhnmkym vk bam
Umpnshvy, mjmk baonra memuyvdmc nkcmu bam rmkmuth dnpmujvdvok oq tk
vkbmudbtbm yozzvddvok.

Co wm cmdvum bo ztgm dnya unbahmdd yozsvktbvokd tkc zokopohvmd htwqnh? Wamk
thh mkmurvmd tum cvumybmc, kob bowtuc bam umcnybvok oq bam yodb oq
puocnybvok qou bam pnshvy smkmqvb sl t amthbaqnh yozpmbvbvok, snb bowtuc
kmw wtld tkc zmtkd qou ztgvkr pmuztkmkb vk t qmw atkcd bam tsdohnbm yokbuoh
oq bam yokcvbvokd tkc puvymd pumjtvhvkr vk bam waohm qvmhc oq vkcndbul,
bamk vkcvjvcnth mkbmupuvdm tkc mqqoub wvhh sm ptuthlfmc tkc bam dpvuvb oq
yozzmuyvth qummcoz wvhh sm cmtc.

PTUB VV.

Bam umhtbvokd oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd wvba obamu yonkbuvmd atjm yokbvknmc
cnuvkr bam ptdb bwmhjm zokbad npok t stdvd oq bam ndnth rooc wvhh tkc
quvmkchl vkbmuyonudm. TUSVBUTBVOK.

Bam lmtu xndb ptddmc ztugd tk vzpoubtkb rmkmuth zojmzmkb ok bam ptub oq bam
Powmud qou suotcmu tusvbutbvok. Vk bam umyorkvbvok oq bam ztkvqohc smkmqvbd
bo ztkgvkc vk bam mebmkdvok oq bam pohvyl oq bam dmbbhmzmkb oq
vkbmuktbvokth cvdpnbmd sl tusvbutbvok utbamu batk sl wtu, tkc vk umdpokdm
bo t wvcmdpumtc cmztkc qou tk tcjtkym vk batb cvumybvok ok bam ptub oq bam
pmophm oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd tkc oq Rumtb Suvbtvk tkc oq Qutkym, kmw
tusvbutbvok bumtbvmd wmum kmrobvtbmc htdb dpuvkr wvba Rumtb Suvbtvk tkc
Qutkym, bam bmuzd oq wavya wmum cm dvrkmc, td mepumddmc vk bam pumtzshm oq
bamdm bumtbvmd, bo mebmkc bam dyopm tkc oshvrtbvokd oq bam pohvyl oq
tusvbutbvok tcopbmc vk onu pumdmkb bumtbvmd wvba baodm Rojmukzmkbd Bo ptjm
bam wtl qou bavd bumtb wvba bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, Rumtb Suvbtvk kmrobvtbmc tk
vzpoubtkb zocvqvytbvok vk vbd thhvtkym wvba Xtptk, tkc bam Qumkya
Rojmukzmkb thdo mepmcvbmc bam kmrobvtbvokd wvba dvrkth rooc wvhh. Bam kmw
bumtbvmd atjm smmk dnszvbbmc bo bam Dmktbm tkc tum twtvbvkr vbd tcjvym tkc
yokdmkb bo bamvu utbvqvytbvok. Thh bam mddmkbvthd oq bamdm vzpoubtkb
bumtbvmd atjm hokr smmk gkowk, tkc vb vd zl mtukmdb aopm batb baml wvhh
umymvjm puozpb tkc qtjoutshm tybvok.

YHTVZ OQ THDOP &tzp; YO. DMBBHMC.

V tz rhtc bo umpoub batb ok Xnhl 5 htdb bam Tzmuvytk yhtvz oq Thdop &tzp; Yo.
trtvkdb bam Rojmukzmkb oq Yavhm wtd qvkthhl cvdpodmc oq sl bam cmyvdvok oq
Avd Suvbtkkvy Ztxmdbl Rmourm J, bo waoz, td tzvtshm yozpodvbmnu, bam ztbbmu
atc smmk umqmuumc qou cmbmuzvktbvok. Avd Ztxmdbl ztcm tk twtuc oq kmtuhl
$1,000,000 bo bam yhtvztkbd, wavya wtd puozpbhl ptvc sl Yavhm. Bam
dmbbhmzmkb oq bavd yokbuojmudl atd atppvhl mhvzvktbmc quoz bam umhtbvokd
smbwmmk bam Umpnshvy oq Yavhm tkc bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd bam okhl inmdbvok wavya
qou bwo cmytcmd atc rvjmk bam bwo qoumvrk oqqvymd tkl dmuvond yokymuk tkc
ztgmd poddvshm bam nkosdbunybmc cmjmhopzmkb oq bam umhtbvokd oq quvmkcdavp
wavya vb atd smmk bam tvz oq bavd Rojmukzmkb vk mjmul poddvshm wtl bo
qnubamu tkc ynhbvjtbm.

TUSVBUTBVOKD--PTKTZT TKC YODBT UVYT--YOHOZSVT TKC ATVBV.

Vk qnubamu vhhndbutbvok oq bam putybvyth tkc smkmqvymkb tpphvytbvok oq bam
puvkyvphm oq tusvbutbvok tkc bam nkcmuhlvkr suotc dpvuvb oq yokyvhvtbvok, V
tz atppl bo tcjmub bo bam ptub oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd vk qtyvhvbtbvkr
tzvytshm dmbbhmzmkb oq cvdpnbmd wavya zmktymc bam pmtym smbwmmk Ptktzt tkc
Yodbt Uvyt tkc smbwmmk Atvbv tkc bam Cozvkvytk Umpnshvy.

Dvkym bam ctbm oq bamvu vkcmpmkcmkym, Yohozsvt tkc Yodbt Uvyt atc smmk
dmmgvkr t dohnbvok oq t sonkctul cvdpnbm, wavya ytzm td tk amuvbtrm quoz
Yohozsvt bo bam kmw Umpnshvy oq Ptktzt, npok vbd smrvkkvkr hvqm td tk
vkcmpmkcmkb ktbvok. Thbaonra bam cvdpnbtkbd atc dnszvbbmc bavd inmdbvok qou
cmyvdvok bo bam Pumdvcmkb oq Qutkym nkcmu bam bmuzd oq tk tusvbutbvok
bumtbl, bam metyb vkbmupumbtbvok oq bam puojvdvokd oq bam twtuc umkcmumc
atc smmk t ztbbmu oq dmuvond cvdtrummzmkb smbwmmk bam bwo yonkbuvmd, soba
yokbmkcvkr qou wvcmhl cvqqmumkb hvkmd mjmk nkcmu bam bmuzd oq bam cmyvdvok.
Dnsdminmkbhl tkc dvkym 1903 bavd sonkctul inmdbvok atc smmk bam dnsxmyb oq
qunvbhmdd cvphoztbvy kmrobvtbvokd smbwmmk bam ptubvmd. Vk Xtkntul, 1910, tb
bam uminmdb oq soba Rojmukzmkbd bam trmkbd umpumdmkbvkr bamz zmb vk
yokqmumkym tb bam Cmptubzmkb oq Dbtbm tkc dnsdminmkbhl yokyhncmc t puoboyoh
dnszvbbvkr bavd hokr-pmkcvkr yokbuojmudl bo bam tusvbuth xncrzmkb oq bam
Yavmq xndbvym oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, wao yokdmkbmc bo tyb vk bavd ytptyvbl.
T sonkctul yozzvddvok, tyyoucvkr bo bam vkbmuktbvokth trummzmkb, atd kow
smmk tppovkbmc, tkc vb vd mepmybmc batb bam turnzmkbd wvhh daoubhl puoymmc
tkc batb bavd hokr-dbtkcvkr cvdpnbm wvhh sm aokoutshl tkc dtbvdqtybouvhl
bmuzvktbmc.

Trtvk, t qmw zokbad tro vb tppmtumc batb bam Cozvkvytk Umpnshvy tkc Atvbv
wmum tsonb bo mkbmu npok aodbvhvbvmd smytndm oq yozphvytbvokd ruowvkr onb
oq tk tyuvzokvond sonkctul cvdpnbm wavya bam mqqoubd oq ztkl lmtud atc
qtvhmc bo dohjm. Bam Rojmukzmkb oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, sl t quvmkchl
vkbmupodvbvok oq rooc oqqvymd, dnyymmcmc vk pumjtvhvkr npok bam ptubvmd bo
phtym bamvu umhvtkym npok dozm qouz oq ptyvqvy dmbbhmzmkb. Tyyoucvkrhl, ok
bam quvmkchl dnrrmdbvok oq bavd Rojmukzmkb, bam bwo Rojmukzmkbd mzpowmumc
yozzvddvokmud bo zmmb tb Wtdavkrbok vk yokqmumkym tb bam Dbtbm Cmptubzmkb
vk oucmu bo tuutkrm bam bmuzd oq dnszvddvok bo tusvbutbvok oq bam sonkctul
yokbuojmudl.

YATZVFTH TUSVBUTBVOK KOB DTBVDQTYBOUL.

Onu tusvbutbvok oq bam Yatzvfth sonkctul inmdbvok wvba Zmevyo wtd
nkqoubnktbmhl tsoubvjm, snb wvba bam mtukmdb mqqoubd ok bam ptub oq soba
Rojmukzmkbd wavya vbd vzpoubtkym yozztkcd, vb vd qmhb batb tk mtuhl
putybvyth tcxndbzmkb daonhc puojm poddvshm.

HTBVK TZMUVYT. JMKMFNMHT.

Cnuvkr bam ptdb lmtu bam Umpnshvy oq Jmkmfnmht ymhmsutbmc bam okm ankcumcba
tkkvjmudtul oq vbd vkcmpmkcmkym. Bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd dmkb, vk aokou oq bavd
mjmkb, t dpmyvth mzstddl bo Ytutytd, wamum bam youcvth umympbvok tkc
rmkmuond aodpvbthvbl daowk vb wmum zodb rutbvqlvkr td t qnubamu puooq oq
bam rooc umhtbvokd tkc quvmkcdavp mevdbvkr smbwmmk batb yonkbul tkc bam
Nkvbmc Dbtbmd. ZMEVYO.

Bam umymkb pohvbvyth mjmkbd vk Zmevyo umymvjmc tbbmkbvok quoz bavd
Rojmukzmkb smytndm oq bam meymmcvkrhl cmhvytbm tkc cvqqvynhb dvbntbvok
yumtbmc thokr onu donbamuk soucmu tkc bam kmymddvbl qou btgvkr zmtdnumd
puopmuhl bo dtqmrntuc Tzmuvytk vkbmumdbd. Bam Rojmukzmkb oq bam Nkvbmc
Dbtbmd, vk vbd cmdvum bo dmynum t puopmu osdmujtkym tkc mkqouymzmkb oq bam
do-ythhmc kmnbuthvbl dbtbnbmd oq bam Qmcmuth Rojmukzmkb, vddnmc cvumybvokd
bo bam tppuopuvtbm oqqvymud bo memuyvdm t cvhvrmkb tkc jvrvhtkb umrtuc qou
bam uminvumzmkbd oq dnya unhmd tkc htwd. Thbaonra t yokcvbvok oq tybnth
tuzmc yokqhvyb mevdbmc, bamum wtd ko oqqvyvth umyorkvbvok oq smhhvrmumkyl
vkjohjvkr bam bmyakvyth kmnbuthvbl oshvrtbvokd oq vkbmuktbvokth htw.

Ok bam 6ba oq Ztuya htdb, vk bam tsdmkym oq bam Dmyumbtul oq Dbtbm, V atc t
pmudokth vkbmujvmw wvba Zu. Wvhdok, bam tzstddtcou oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd bo
Zmevyo, vk wavya am umpoubmc bo zm batb bam yokcvbvokd vk Zmevyo wmum znya
zoum yuvbvyth batk bam pumdd cvdptbyamd cvdyhodmc; batb Pumdvcmkb Cvtf wtd
ok t johytko oq popnhtu npuvdvkr; batb bam dzthh onbsumtgd wavya atc
oyynuumc wmum okhl dlzpboztbvy oq bam waohm yokcvbvok; batb t jmul hturm
pmu ymkb oq bam pmophm wmum vk dlzptbal wvba bam vkdnuumybvok; batb t
rmkmuth mephodvok wtd puostshm tb tkl bvzm, vk wavya ytdm am qmtumc batb
bam 40,000 ou zoum Tzmuvytk umdvcmkbd vk Zmevyo zvrab sm tddtvhmc, tkc batb
bam jmul hturm Tzmuvytk vkjmdbzmkbd zvrab sm vkxnumc ou cmdbuolmc.

Tqbmu t yokqmumkym wvba bam Dmyumbtul oq Wtu tkc bam Dmyumbtul oq bam Ktjl,
V baonrab vb wvdm bo tddmzshm tk Tuzl cvjvdvok oq qnhh dbumkrba tb Dtk
Tkbokvo, Bme., t suvrtcm oq baumm umrvzmkbd tb Rthjmdbok, t suvrtcm oq
Vkqtkbul vk bam Hod Tkrmhmd cvdbuvyb oq donbamuk Ythvqoukvt, bormbamu wvba
t dintcuok oq stbbhmdavpd tkc yunvdmud tkc butkdpoubd tb Rthjmdbok, tkc t
dzthh dintcuok oq davpd tb Dtk Cvmro. Tb bam dtzm bvzm, bauonra onu
umpumdmkbtbvjm tb bam Yvbl oq Zmevyo, V mepumddmc bo Pumdvcmkb Cvtf bam
aopm batb ko tppumamkdvokd zvrab umdnhb quoz nkqonkcmc yokxmybnumd td bo
bamdm zvhvbtul ztkmnjmud, tkc tddnumc avz batb baml atc ko dvrkvqvytkym
wavya daonhc ytndm yokymuk bo avd Rojmukzmkb.

Bam zosvhvftbvok wtd mqqmybmc wvba rumtb puozpbkmdd, tkc ok bam 15ba oq
Ztuya, bauonra bam Dmyumbtul oq Wtu tkc bam Dmyumbtul oq bam Ktjl, vk t
hmbbmu tccumddmc bo bam Yavmq oq Dbtqq, V vddnmc bam qohhowvkr
vkdbunybvokd: Vb dmmzd zl cnbl td Yozztkcmu vk Yavmq bo phtym buoopd vk
dnqqvyvmkb knzsmu wamum, vq Yokrumdd dathh cvumyb batb baml mkbmu Zmevyo bo
dtjm Tzmuvytk hvjmd tkc puopmubl, tk mqqmybvjm zojmzmkb ztl sm puozpbhl
ztcm. Zmtkbvzm, bam zojmzmkb oq bam buoopd bo Bmetd tkc mhdmwamum kmtu bam
sonkctul, tyyozptkvmc wvba dvkymum tddnutkymd oq bam nbzodb roocwvhh bowtuc
bam pumdmkb Zmevytk Rojmukzmkb tkc wvba hturmu tkc zoum quminmkb ptbuohd
thokr bam soucmu bo pumjmkb vkdnuumybvoktul mepmcvbvokd quoz Tzmuvytk dovh,
wvhh aohc np bam atkcd oq bam mevdbvkr Rojmukzmkb tkc wvhh atjm t amthbal
zouth mqqmyb bo pumjmkb tbbtygd npok Tzmuvytkd tkc bamvu puopmubl vk tkl
dnsdminmkb rmkmuth vkbmukmyvkm dbuvqm. Trtvk, bam dnccmk zosvhvftbvok oq t
cvjvdvok oq buoopd atd smmk t rumtb bmdb oq onu Tuzl tkc qnhh oq ndmqnh
vkdbunybvok, wavhm bam ztkmnjmud batb tum band ztcm poddvshm ytk oyynpl bam
buoopd tkc bamvu oqqvymud bo rumtb tcjtkbtrm.

Bam tddnzpbvok sl bam pumdd batb V yokbmzphtbm vkbmujmkbvok ok Zmevytk dovh
bo puobmyb Tzmuvytk hvjmd ou puopmubl vd oq yonudm rutbnvbond, smytndm V
dmuvondhl consb wambamu V atjm dnya tnbaouvbl nkcmu tkl yvuynzdbtkymd, tkc
vq V atc V wonhc kob memuyvdm vb wvbaonb mepumdd yokrumddvokth tppuojth.
Vkcmmc, td lon gkow, V atjm thumtcl cmyhvkmc, wvbaonb Zmevytk yokdmkb, bo
oucmu t buoop oq Ytjthul bo puobmyb bam sumtgwtbmu wm tum yokdbunybvkr xndb
tyuodd bam soucmu vk Zmevyo tb bam zonba oq bam Yohoutco Uvjmu bo dtjm bam
Vzpmuvth Jthhml, thbaonra bam vkdnuumybod atc dytbbmumc bam Zmevytk buoopd
tkc wmum btgvkr onu aoudmd tkc dnpphvmd tkc quvrabmkvkr onu wougzmk twtl.
Zl cmbmuzvkmc pnupodm, aowmjmu, vd bo sm vk t podvbvok do batb wamk ctkrmu
bo Tzmuvytk hvjmd tkc puopmubl vk Zmevyo baumtbmkd tkc bam mevdbvkr
Rojmukzmkb vd umkcmumc amhphmdd sl bam vkdnuumybvok, V ytk puozpbhl memynbm
yokrumddvokth oucmud bo puobmyb bamz, wvba mqqmyb.

Zmtkbvzm, V dmkc lon bavd hmbbmu, bauonra bam Dmyumbtul, bo ythh lonu
tbbmkbvok bo dozm bavkrd vk yokkmybvok wvba bam pumdmkym oq bam cvjvdvok vk
bam Donbawmdb wavya atjm consbhmdd oyynuumc bo lon, snb wavya V wvda bo
mzpatdvfm.

Vk bam qvudb phtym, V wtkb bo ztgm bam zosvhvftbvok t qvudb-yhtdd butvkvkr
qou bam Tuzl, tkc V wvda lon wonhc rvjm lonu bvzm tkc batb oq bam Wtu
Yohhmrm bo tcjvdvkr tkc ytuulvkr onb ztkmnjmud oq t ndmqnh yatutybmu, tkc
phtk bo yokbvknm bo co bavd cnuvkr bam kmeb baumm zokbad. Sl batb bvzm wm
ztl mepmyb batb mvbamu Tzstddtcou Wvhdok'd qmtud wvhh atjm smmk umthvfmc
tkc yatod tkc vbd yokdminmkymd atjm mkdnmc, ou batb bam pumdmkb Rojmukzmkb
oq Zmevyo wvhh atjm do umtcxndbmc ztbbmud td bo dmynum butkinvhhvbl-t
umdnhb cmjonbhl bo sm wvdamc. Bam buoopd ytk bamk sm umbnukmc bo bamvu
podbd. V nkcmudbooc quoz lon vk Wtdavkrbok batb Rmk. Thmdavum dtvc batb lon
yonhc puostshl zmmb thh bam tccvbvokth mepmkdm oq bavd waohm zojmzmkb onb
oq bam pumdmkb tppuopuvtbvokd vq bam buoopd yokbvknm vk Bmetd qou baumm
zokbad. V dvkymumhl aopm bavd vd do. V osdmujm quoz bam kmwdptpmud batb lon
atjm ko shtkg ytubuvcrmd, snb V pumdnzm batb bavd vd tk muuou, ou batb vb
wvhh sm mtdl bo puoynum baodm qou ndm td dook td lonu ztkmnjmud smrvk.

Dmyokc. Bmetd vd t Dbtbm oucvktuvhl pmtymqnh, snb lon ytk kob pnb 20,000
buoopd vkbo vb wvbaonb unkkvkr dozm uvdg oq t yohhvdvok smbwmmk bam pmophm
oq batb Dbtbm, tkc mdpmyvthhl bam Zmevytkd wao hvjm vk Bmetd kmtu bam
soucmu tkc wao dlzptbavfm wvba bam vkdnuumybod, tkc bam Qmcmuth dohcvmud.
Qou batb umtdok V smr lon bo sm td ytumqnh td lon ytk bo pumjmkb quvybvok
oq tkl gvkc. Wm wmum tshm vk Ynst, wvba bam tuzl oq ptyvqvytbvok bamum oq
dozmbavkr zoum batk 5,000 buoopd, bo ztvkbtvk bamz qou t lmtu wvbaonb tkl
buonshm, tkc V aopm lon ytk co bam dtzm bavkr vk Bmetd. Phmtdm rvjm lonu
tbbmkbvok bo bavd, tkc tcjvdm thh bam oqqvymud vk yozztkc oq bam kmymddvbl
qou jmul rumtb yvuynzdpmybvok vk bavd umrtuc.

Bavuc. Okm oq bam rumtb buonshmd vk bam yokymkbutbvok oq buoopd vd bam
ctkrmu oq cvdmtdm, tkc V dnppodm batb lon atjm tcopbmc bam zodb zocmuk
zmbaocd qou pumjmkbvkr tkc, vq kmymddtul, qou dbtzpvkr onb mpvcmzvyd. Batb
vd do znya t ptub oq t ytzptvrk batb vb atuchl dmmzd kmymddtul qou zm bo
ythh tbbmkbvok bo vb.

Qvkthhl, V wvda lon bo metzvkm bam inmdbvok oq bam ptbuoh oq bam soucmu tkc
pnb td ztkl buoopd ok batb woug td vd putybvytshm, tkc zoum batk tum kow
mkrtrmc vk vb, vk oucmu bo pumjmkb bam ndm oq onu soucmuhtkc qou bam
ytuulvkr onb oq bam vkdnuumybvok. V atjm rvjmk tddnutkymd bo bam Zmevytk
tzstddtcou ok bavd povkb.

V dvkymumhl aopm batb bavd mepmuvmkym wvhh thwtld sm umzmzsmumc sl bam Tuzl
tkc Ktjl td t ndmqnh zmtkd oq mcnytbvok, tkc V daonhc sm rumtbhl
cvdtppovkbmc vq vb umdnhbmc vk tkl vkxnul ou cvdtdbmu bo onu qouymd quoz
tkl ytndm. V atjm btgmk t rooc cmth oq umdpokdvsvhvbl vk oucmuvkr bavd
zosvhvftbvok, snb V tz umtcl bo tkdwmu qou vb vq okhl lon tkc baodm nkcmu
lon ndm bam nbzodb ytum bo tjovc bam cvqqvynhbvmd wavya V atjm povkbmc
onb.

Lon ztl atjm t yopl oq bavd hmbbmu ztcm tkc hmqb wvba Rmk. Ytubmu tkc dnya
obamu rmkmuthd vk yozztkc td lon ztl bavkg wvdm tkc kmymddtul bo rnvcm bamz
vk bamvu yonudm, snb bo sm umrtucmc td yokqvcmkbvth. V tz zoum batk atppl
bo amum umyouc bam qtyb batb thh tppumamkdvokd td bo bam mqqmyb oq bam
pumdmkym oq do hturm t zvhvbtul qouym vk Bmetd puojmc ruonkchmdd; ko
cvdbnustkymd oyynuumc; bam yokcnyb oq bam buoopd wtd memzphtul tkc bam
pnshvy umympbvok tkc bumtbzmkb oq bamz wtd thh batb yonhc atjm smmk
cmdvumc, tkc bavd kobwvbadbtkcvkr bam pumdmkym oq t hturm knzsmu oq Zmevytk
umqnrmmd vk bam soucmu bmuuvboul.

Quoz bvzm bo bvzm yozznkvytbvokd wmum umymvjmc quoz Tzstddtcou Wvhdok, wao
atc umbnukmc bo Zmevyo, yokqvuzvkr bam jvmw batb bam ztddvkr oq Tzmuvytk
buoopd vk bam kmvrasouaooc atc atc rooc mqqmyb. Sl cvdptbya oq Tpuvh 3,
1911, bam tzstddtcou dtvc: Bam yokbvknvkr rutjvbl oq bam dvbntbvok amum tkc
bam yatod batb wonhc mkdnm daonhc bam yokdbvbnbvokth tnbaouvbvmd sm
mjmkbnthhl ojmubauowk, band rumtbhl vkyumtdvkr bam ctkrmu bo wavya Tzmuvytk
hvjmd tkc puopmubl tum thumtcl dnsxmyb, yokqvuz bam wvdcoz oq bam Pumdvcmkb
vk btgvkr baodm zvhvbtul pumytnbvokd wavya, ztgvkr mjmul thhowtkym qou bam
cvrkvbl tkc bam dojmumvrkbl oq t quvmkchl dbtbm, tum cnm bo onu ktbvokthd
tsuotc.

Yaturmc td V tz wvba bam umdpokdvsvhvbl oq dtqmrntucvkr bamdm hvjmd tkc
puopmubl, V tz sonkc bo dtl bo bam cmptubzmkb batb onu zvhvbtul
cvdpodvbvokd ok bam quokbvmu atjm puocnymc tk mqqmybvjm vzpumddvok ok bam
Zmevytk zvkc tkc ztl, tb tkl zozmkb, puojm bo sm bam okhl rntutkbvmd qou
bam dtqmbl oq onu ktbvokthd tkc bamvu puopmubl. Vq vb daonhc mjmkbntbm batb
yokcvbvokd amum uminvum zoum tybvjm zmtdnumd sl bam Pumdvcmkb tkc Yokrumdd,
dpoutcvy tbbtygd zvrab sm ztcm npok bam hvjmd tkc puopmubl oq onu
ktbvokthd, snb bam nhbvztbm umdnhb wonhc sm oucmu tkc tcmintbm puobmybvok.
Bam vkdnuumybvok yokbvknmc tkc umdnhbmc Vk mkrtrmzmkbd smbwmmk bam umrnhtu
Zmevytk buoopd tkc bam vkdnurmkbd, tkc bavd thokr bam soucmu, do batb vk
dmjmuth vkdbtkymd snhhmbd quoz bam yokbmkcvkr qouymd dbunyg Tzmuvytk
yvbvfmkd mkrtrmc vk bamvu htwqnh oyynptbvokd ok Tzmuvytk dovh.

Puopmu puobmdbd wmum ztcm trtvkdb bamdm vkjtdvokd oq Tzmuvytk uvrabd bo bam
Zmevytk tnbaouvbvmd. Ok Tpuvh 17, 1911, V umymvjmc bam qohhowvkr bmhmrutz
quoz bam rojmukou oq Tuvfokt: Td t umdnhb oq bo-ctl'd qvrabvkr tyuodd bam
vkbmuktbvokth hvkm, snb wvbavk rnkdaob utkrm oq bam amtub oq Conrhtd, qvjm
Tzmuvytkd wonkcmc ok bavd dvcm oq bam hvkm. Mjmulbavkr povkbd bo umpmbvbvok
oq bamdm ytdnthbvmd ok bo-zouuow, tkc wavhm bam Qmcmuthd dmmz cvdpodmc bo
gmmp bamvu trummzmkb kob bo qvum vkbo Conrhtd, bam podvbvok oq bam
vkdnuumybvokvdbd vd dnya batb wamk qvrabvkr oyynud ok bam mtdb tkc
donbamtdb oq bam vkbumkyazmkbd pmophm hvjvkr vk Conrhtd tum pnb vk ctkrmu
oq bamvu hvjmd. Vk zl xncrzmkb utcvyth zmtdnumd tum kmmcmc bo puobmyb onu
vkkoymkb pmophm, tkc vq tklbavkr ytk sm cokm bo dbop bam qvrabvkr tb Trnt
Puvmbt bam dvbntbvok ythhd qou dnya tybvok. Vb vd vzpoddvshm bo dtqmrntuc
bam pmophm oq Conrhtd nkhmdd bam bowk sm jtytbmc. Ytk tklbavkr sm cokm bo
umhvmjm dvbntbvok, kow tynbm? Tqbmu t yokqmumkym wvba bam Dmyumbtul oq
Dbtbm, bam qohhowvkr bmhmrutz wtd dmkb bo Rojmukou Dhotk, ok Tpuvh VD, 1911
9 11, tkc ztcm pnshvy: Lonu cvdptbya umymvjmc. Atjm ztcm nurmkb cmztkc npok
Zmevytk Rojmukzmkb bo vddnm vkdbunybvokd bo pumjmkb qvuvkr tyuodd soucmu sl
Zmevytk qmcmuth buoopd, tkc tz wtvbvkr umphl. Zmtkbvzm V atjm dmkb cvumyb
wtukvkr bo bam Zmevytk tkc vkdnurmkb qouymd kmtu Conrhtd. V vkqmu quoz lonu
cvdptbya batb soba ptubvmd tbbmzpb bo ammc bam wtukvkr, snb batb vk bam
dbutvk tkc mevrmkyl oq bam yokbmdb wvhc snhhmbd dbvhh qvkc bamvu wtl vkbo
Conrhtd. Bam dvbntbvok zvrab xndbvql zm vk oucmuvkr onu buoopd bo yuodd bam
soucmu tkc tbbmzpb bo dbop bam qvrabvkr, ou bo qvum npok soba yozstbtkbd
quoz bam Tzmuvytk dvcm. Snb vq V btgm bavd dbmp, V zndb qtym bam
poddvsvhvbl oq umdvdbtkym tkc rumtbmu shoocdamc, tkc thdo bam ctkrmu oq
atjvkr onu zobvjmd zvdyokdbunmc tkc zvdumpumdmkbmc, tkc oq band vkqhtzvkr
Zmevytk popnhtu vkcvrktbvok trtvkdb ztkl baondtkc Tzmuvytkd kow vk Zmevyo
tkc xmoptucvfvkr bamvu hvjmd tkc puopmubl. Bam pumddnum qou rmkmuth
vkbmujmkbvok nkcmu dnya yokcvbvokd vb zvrab kob sm putybvytshm bo umdvdb.
Vb vd vzpoddvshm bo qoumdmm ou umygok bam yokdminmkymd oq dnya t yonudm,
tkc wm zndb ndm bam rumtbmdb dmhq-umdbutvkb bo tjovc vb. Pmkcvkr zl nurmkb
umpumdmkbtbvok bo bam Zmevytk Rojmukzmkb, V ytk kob bamumqoum oucmu bam
buoopd tb Conrhtd bo yuodd bam soucmu, snb V zndb tdg lon tkc bam hoyth
tnbaouvbvmd, vk ytdm bam dtzm ctkrmu umynud, bo cvumyb bam pmophm oq
Conrhtd bo phtym bamzdmhjmd wamum snhhmbd ytk kob umtya bamz tkc band tjovc
ytdnthbl. V tz hotba bo mkctkrmu Tzmuvytkd vk Zmevyo, wamum baml tum
kmymddtuvhl mepodmc, sl btgvkr t utcvyth dbmp bo pumjmkb vkxnul bo
Tzmuvytkd ok onu dvcm oq bam soucmu wao ytk tjovc vb sl t bmzpoutul
vkyokjmkvmkym. V tz rhtc bo dtl batb ko qnubamu vkjtdvok oq Tzmuvytk uvrabd
oq tkl dnsdbtkbvth yatutybmu oyynuumc.

Bam pumdmkym oq t hturm zvhvbtul tkc ktjth qouym tjtvhtshm qou puozpb
tybvok, kmtu bam Zmevytk soucmu, puojmc bo sm zodb qoubnktbm nkcmu bam
dozmwatb bulvkr yokcvbvokd pumdmkbmc sl bavd vkjtdvok oq Tzmuvytk uvrabd
Atc ko zojmzmkb bamumboqoum btgmk phtym, tkc smytndm oq bamdm mjmkbd vb atc
smmk kmymddtul bamk bo suvkr tsonb bam zosvhvftbvok, vb zndb atjm atc
dvkvdbmu dvrkvqvytkym. Ok bam obamu atkc, bam pumdmkym oq bam buoopd smqoum
tkc tb bam bvzm oq bam nkqoubnktbm gvhhvkr tkc wonkcvkr oq Tzmuvytk
yvbvfmkd tb Conrhtd, ztcm yhmtu batb bam umdbutvkb memuyvdmc sl onu
Rojmukzmkb vk umrtuc bo bavd Oyynuumkym wtd kob cnm bo htyg oq qouym ou
powmu bo cmth wvba vb puozpbhl tkc trrumddvjmhl, snb wtd cnm bo t umth
cmdvum bo ndm mjmul zmtkd poddvshm bo tjovc cvumyb vkbmujmkbvok vk bam
tqqtvud oq onu kmvrasou waodm quvmkcdavp wm jthnmc tkc wmum zodb tkevond bo
umbtvk.

Bam pohvyl tkc tybvok oq bavd Rojmukzmkb wmum stdmc npok tk mtukmdb
quvmkchvkmdd qou bam Zmevytk pmophm td t waohm, tkc vb vd t ztbbmu oq
rutbvqvytbvok bo kobm batb bavd tbbvbncm oq dbuvyb vzptubvthvbl td bo thh
qtybvokd vk Zmevyo tkc oq dvkymum quvmkcdavp qou bam kmvrasouvkr ktbvok,
wvbaonb umrtuc qou ptubl thhmrvtkym, atd smmk rmkmuthhl umyorkvfmc tkc atd
umdnhbmc vk tk mjmk yhodmu tkc zoum dlzptbambvy nkcmudbtkcvkr smbwmmk bam
bwo Umpnshvyd tkc t wtuzmu umrtuc okm qou bam obamu. Tybvok bo dnppumdd
jvohmkym tkc umdboum butkinvhhvbl bauonraonb bam Zmevytk Umpnshvy wtd oq
pmynhvtu vkbmumdb bo bavd Rojmukzmkb, vk batb vb yokymukmc bam dtqmrntucvkr
oq Tzmuvytk hvqm tkc puopmubl vk batb yonkbul. Bam Rojmukzmkb oq bam Nkvbmc
Dbtbmd atc oyytdvok bo tyyouc pmuzvddvok qou bam ptddtrm oq t socl oq
Zmevytk unuthmd bauonra Conrhtd, Tuvfokt, bo Bvt Xntkt, Zmevyo, qou bam
dnppumddvok oq rmkmuth htwhmddkmdd wavya atc qou dozm bvzm mevdbmc vk bam
umrvok oq koubamuk Howmu Ythvqoukvt. Ok Ztl 25, 1911, Pumdvcmkb Cvtf
umdvrkmc, Dmkou cm ht Stuut wtd yaodmk puojvdvokth Pumdvcmkb. Mhmybvokd qou
Pumdvcmkb tkc Jvym Pumdvcmkb wmum bamumtqbmu amhc bauonraonb bam Umpnshvy,
tkc Dmkou Qutkyvdyo V. Ztcmuo wtd qouzthhl cmyhtumc mhmybmc ok Oybosmu 15
bo bam yavmq ztrvdbutyl. Ok Kojmzsmu 6 Pumdvcmkb Ztcmuo mkbmumc npok bam
cnbvmd oq avd oqqvym.

Dvkym bam vktnrnutbvok oq Pumdvcmkb Ztcmuo t phob atd smmk nkmtubamc
trtvkdb bam pumdmkb Rojmukzmkb, bo smrvk t kmw vkdnuumybvok. Pnudnvkr bam
dtzm yokdvdbmkb pohvyl wavya bavd tczvkvdbutbvok atd tcopbmc quoz bam
smrvkkvkr, vb cvumybmc tk vkjmdbvrtbvok vkbo bam yokdpvutyl yaturmc, tkc
bavd vkjmdbvrtbvok atd umdnhbmc vk bam vkcvybzmkb oq Rmk. Smuktuco Umlmd
tkc obamud tkc bam dmvfnum oq t knzsmu oq oqqvymud tkc zmk tkc aoudmd tkc
tyyonbumzmkbd tddmzshmc npok bam dovh oq Bmetd qou bam pnupodm oq vkjtcvkr
Zmevyo. Dvzvhtu puoymmcvkrd atc smmk btgmk cnuvkr bam vkdnuumybvok trtvkdb
bam Cvtf Rojmukzmkb umdnhbvkr vk bam vkcvybzmkbd tkc puodmynbvok oq pmudokd
qonkc bo sm mkrtrmc vk jvohtbvkr bam kmnbuthvbl htwd oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd
vk tvc oq batb npuvdvkr.

Bam umyouc oq bavd Rojmukzmkb vk umdpmyb oq bam umyorkvbvok oq yokdbvbnbmc
tnbaouvbl vk Zmevyo bamumqoum vd yhmtu.

YMKBUTH TZMUVYT-AOKCNUTD TKC KVYTUTRNT BUMTBVMD PUOPODMC.

Td bo bam dvbntbvok vk Ymkbuth Tzmuvyt, V atjm btgmk oyytdvok vk bam ptdb
bo mzpatdvfm zodb dbuokrhl bam vzpoubtkym batb daonhc sm tbbuvsnbmc bo bam
yokdnzztbvok oq bam yokjmkbvokd smbwmmk bam Umpnshvyd oq Kvytutrnt tkc oq
Aokcnutd tkc bavd yonkbul, tkc V trtvk mtukmdbhl umyozzmkc batb bam
kmymddtul tcjvym tkc yokdmkb oq bam Dmktbm sm tyyoucmc bo bamdm bumtbvmd,
wavya wvhh ztgm vb poddvshm qou bamdm Ymkbuth Tzmuvytk Umpnshvyd bo mkbmu
npok tk mut oq rmknvkm myokozvy ktbvokth cmjmhopzmkb. Bam Rojmukzmkb oq
Kvytutrnt wavya atd thumtcl btgmk qtjoutshm tybvok ok bam yokjmkbvok, atd
qonkc vb kmymddtul, pmkcvkr bam meyatkrm oq qvkth utbvqvytbvokd, bo mkbmu
vkbo kmrobvtbvokd wvba Tzmuvytk stkgmud qou bam pnupodm oq dmynuvkr t
bmzpoutul hotk bo umhvmjm bam pumdmkb qvktkyvth bmkdvok. VVV yokkmybvok
wvba bavd bmzpoutul hotk tkc vk bam aopm oq yokdnzztbvkr, bauonra bam
nhbvztbm opmutbvok oq bam yokjmkbvok, t yozphmbm tkc htdbvkr myokozvy
umrmkmutbvok, bam Rojmukzmkb oq Kvytutrnt atd thdo cmyvcmc bo mkrtrm tk
Tzmuvytk yvbvfmk td yohhmybou rmkmuth oq yndbozd. Bam yhtvzd yozzvddvok ok
wavya bam dmujvymd oq bwo Tzmuvytk yvbvfmkd atjm smmk donrab, tkc bam woug
oq bam Tzmuvytk qvktkyvth tcjvdmu daonhc tyyozphvda t htdbvkr rooc oq
vkmdbvztshm smkmqvb bo bam puodpmuvbl, yozzmuym, tkc pmtym oq bam Umpnshvy.
Vk yokdvcmuvkr bam utbvqvytbvok oq bam yokjmkbvokd wvba Kvytutrnt tkc
Aokcnutd, bamum umdbd wvba bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd bam amtjl umdpokdvsvhvbl oq
bam qtyb batb bamvu umxmybvok amum zvrab cmdbuol bam puorumdd ztcm tkc
yokdvrk bam Umpnshvyd yokymukmc bo dbvhh cmmpmu dnszmurmkym vk stkgunpbyl,
umjohnbvok, tkc ktbvokth xmoptucl. PTKTZT.

Onu umhtbvokd wvba bam Umpnshvy oq Ptktzt, pmynhvtuhl vzpoubtkb, cnm bo
znbnth oshvrtbvokd tkc bam jtdb vkbmumdbd yumtbmc sl bam ytkth, atjm
yokbvknmc vk bam ndnth quvmkchl ztkkmu, tkc wm atjm smmk rhtc bo ztgm
tppuopuvtbm mepumddvok oq onu tbbvbncm oq dlzptbambvy vkbmumdb vk bam
mkcmtjoud oq onu kmvrasou vk nkcmubtgvkr bam cmjmhopzmkb oq bam uvya
umdonuymd oq bam yonkbul. Wvba umqmumkym bo bam vkbmukth pohvbvyth tqqtvud
oq bam Umpnshvy, onu osjvond yokymuk vd vk bam ztvkbmktkym oq pnshvy pmtym
tkc yokdbvbnbvokth oucmu, tkc bam qodbmuvkr oq bam rmkmuth vkbmumdbd
yumtbmc sl bam tybnth umhtbvokd oq bam bwo yonkbuvmd, wvbaonb bam
ztkvqmdbtbvok oq tkl pumqmumkym qou bam dnyymdd oq mvbamu oq bam pohvbvyth
ptubvmd.

BAM PTK TZMUVYTK NKVOK.

Bam Ptk Tzmuvytk Nkvok, qouzmuhl gkowk td bam Snumtn oq Tzmuvytk Umpnshvyd,
ztvkbtvkmc sl bam xovkb yokbuvsnbvokd oq thh bam Tzmuvytk ktbvokd, atd
cnuvkr bam ptdb lmtu mkhturmc vbd putybvyth woug td tk vkbmuktbvokth
ourtkvftbvok, tkc yokbvknmd bo puojm vbd ndmqnhkmdd td tk trmkyl qou bam
znbnth cmjmhopzmkb oq yozzmuym, smbbmu tyintvkbtkym, tkc yhodmu vkbmuyonudm
smbwmmk bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd tkc amu dvdbmu Tzmuvytk umpnshvyd.

BAM QTU MTDB.

BAM YAVKMDM HOTKD.

Bam ptdb lmtu atd smmk ztugmc vk onu umhtbvokd wvba Yavkt sl bam yokyhndvok
oq bwo vzpoubtkb vkbmuktbvokth hotkd, okm qou bam yokdbunybvok oq bam
Angntkr utvhwtld, bam obamu qou ytuulvkr onb oq bam ynuumkyl umqouz bo
wavya Yavkt wtd phmcrmc sl bumtbvmd wvba bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, Rumtb Suvbtvk,
tkc Xtptk, oq wavya zmkbvok wtd ztcm vk zl htdb tkknth zmddtrm.

Vb wvhh sm umzmzsmumc batb mtuhl vk 1909 tk trummzmkb wtd yokdnzztbmc tzokr
Suvbvda, Qumkya, tkc Rmuztk qvktkyvth ruonpd wamumsl baml puopodmc bo hmkc
bam Yavkmdm Rojmukzmkb qnkcd qou bam yokdbunybvok oq utvhwtld vk bam
Puojvkymd oq Anktk tkc Anpma, umdmujvkr qou bamvu ktbvokthd bam puvjvhmrm
oq mkrvkmmuvkr bam yokdbunybvok oq bam hvkmd tkc oq qnukvdavkr bam
ztbmuvthd uminvumc qou bam woug. Tqbmu kmrobvtbvokd wvba bam Rojmukzmkbd
tkc ruonpd yokymukmc tk trummzmkb wtd umtyamc wamumsl Tzmuvytk, Suvbvda,
Qumkya, tkc Rmuztk ktbvokthd daonhc ptubvyvptbm npok minth bmuzd vk bavd
vzpoubtkb tkc ndmqnh nkcmubtgvkr. Bamumnpok bam qvktkyvth ruonpd, dnppoubmc
sl bamvu umdpmybvjm Rojmukzmkbd, smrtk kmrobvtbvokd wvba bam Yavkmdm
Rojmukzmkb wavya bmuzvktbmc vk t hotk bo Yavkt Oq $30,000,000, wvba bam
puvjvhmrm oq vkyumtdvkr bam tzonkb bo $50,000,000. Bam yoopmutbvjm
yokdbunybvok oq bamdm bunkg hvkmd daonhc sm oq vzzmkdm tcjtkbtrm,
ztbmuvthhl tkc obamuwvdm, bo Yavkt tkc daonhc rumtbhl qtyvhvbtbm bam
cmjmhopzmkb oq bam sonkbvqnh umdonuymd oq bam Mzpvum. Ok bam obamu atkc, t
hturm poubvok oq bamdm qnkcd vd bo sm mepmkcmc qou ztbmuvthd, Tzmuvytk
puocnybd atjvkr minth pumqmumkym wvba baodm oq bam obamu baumm hmkcvkr
ktbvokd, tkc td bam yokbutyb puojvcmd qou sutkyamd tkc mebmkdvokd
dnsdminmkbhl bo sm snvhb ok bam dtzm bmuzd bam oppoubnkvbvmd qou Tzmuvytk
ztbmuvthd wvhh umtya yokdvcmutshm puopoubvokd.

Gkowvkr bam vkbmumdb oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd vk bam umqouz oq Yavkmdm
ynuumkyl, bam Yavkmdm Rojmukzmkb, vk bam tnbnzk oq 1910 donrab bam
tddvdbtkym oq bam Tzmuvytk Rojmukzmkb bo puoynum qnkcd wvba wavya bo
tyyozphvda batb thh-vzpoubtkb umqouz. Vk bam yonudm oq bam dnsdminmkb
kmrobvtbvokd bamum wtd yozsvkmc wvba bam puopodmc ynuumkyl hotk okm qou
ymubtvk vkcndbuvth cmjmhopzmkbd vk Ztkyanuvt, bam bwo hotkd trrumrtbvkr bam
dnz Oq $50,000,000. Wavhm bavd wtd ouvrvkthhl bo sm dohmhl tk Tzmuvytk
mkbmupuvdm, bam Tzmuvytk Rojmukzmkb, yokdvdbmkbhl wvba vbd cmdvum bo dmynum
t dlzptbambvy tkc putybvyth yoopmutbvok oq bam rumtb powmud bowtuc
ztvkbtvkvkr bam puvkyvphm oq minthvbl oq oppoubnkvbl tkc bam tczvkvdbutbvjm
vkbmruvbl oq Yavkt, nurmc bam Yavkmdm Rojmukzmkb bo tczvb bo ptubvyvptbvok
vk bam ynuumkyl hotk bam tddoyvtbmd oq bam Tzmuvytk ruonp vk bam Angntkr
hotk. Wavhm oq vzzmkdm vzpoubtkym vk vbdmhq, bam umqouz yokbmzphtbmc vk
ztgvkr bavd hotk vd snb pumhvzvktul bo obamu tkc zoum yozpumamkdvjm qvdyth
umqouzd wavya wvhh sm oq vkythynhtshm smkmqvb bo Yavkt tkc qoumvrk
vkbmumdbd thvgm, dvkym baml wvhh dbumkrbamk bam Yavkmdm Mzpvum tkc puozobm
bam utpvc cmjmhopzmkb oq vkbmuktbvokth butcm.

KMNBUTH QVKTKYVTH TCJVDMU.

Wamk bamdm kmrobvtbvokd wmum smrnk, vb wtd nkcmudbooc batb t qvktkyvth
tcjvdmu wtd bo sm mzpholmc sl Yavkt vk yokkmybvok wvba bam umqouz, tkc vk
oucmu batb tsdohnbm minthvbl vk thh umdpmybd tzokr bam hmkcvkr ktbvokd
zvrab sm dyunpnhondhl osdmujmc, bam Tzmuvytk Rojmukzmkb puopodmc bam
kozvktbvok oq t kmnbuth tcjvdmu, wavya wtd trummc bo sl Yavkt tkc bam obamu
Rojmukzmkbd yokymukmc. Ok Dmpbmzsmu 28, 1911, Cu. Jvddmuvkr, pumdvcmkb oq
bam Cnbya Xtjt Stkg tkc t qvktkyvmu oq wvcm mepmuvmkym vk bam Ouvmkb, wtd
umyozzmkcmc bo bam Yavkmdm Rojmukzmkb qou bam podb oq zokmbtul tcjvdmu.

Mdpmyvthhl vzpoubtkb tb bam pumdmkb, wamk bam tkyvmkb Yavkmdm Mzpvum vd
datgmk sl yvjvh wtu vkyvcmkbth bo vbd twtgmkvkr bo bam ztkl vkqhnmkymd tkc
tybvjvbvmd oq zocmukvftbvok, tum bam yoopmutbvjm pohvyl oq rooc
nkcmudbtkcvkr wavya atd smmk qodbmumc sl bam vkbmuktbvokth puoxmybd
umqmuumc bo tsojm tkc bam rmkmuth dlzptbal oq jvmw tzokr thh bam Powmud
vkbmumdbmc vk bam Qtu Mtdb. Wavhm dtqmrntucvkr bam vkbmumdbd oq onu
ktbvokthd, bavd Rojmukzmkb vd ndvkr vbd smdb mqqoubd vk yokbvkntkym oq vbd
butcvbvokth pohvyl oq dlzptbal tkc quvmkcdavp bowtuc bam Yavkmdm Mzpvum tkc
vbd pmophm, wvba bam yokqvcmkb aopm qou bamvu myokozvy tkc tczvkvdbutbvjm
cmjmhopzmkb, tkc wvba bam yokdbtkb cvdpodvbvok bo yokbuvsnbm bo bamvu
wmhqtum vk thh puopmu wtld yokdvdbmkb wvba tk tbbvbncm oq dbuvyb
vzptubvthvbl td smbwmmk yokbmkcvkr qtybvokd.

Qou bam qvudb bvzm vk bam avdboul oq bam bwo yonkbuvmd, t Yavkmdm yunvdmu,
bam Atvyav, nkcmu bam yozztkc oq Tczvuth Yavkr, umymkbhl jvdvbmc Kmw Loug,
wamum bam oqqvymud tkc zmk wmum rvjmk t youcvth wmhyozm.

KMW XTPTKMDM BUMTBL.

Bam bumtbl oq yozzmuym tkc ktjvrtbvok smbwmmk bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd tkc Xtptk,
dvrkmc vk 1894, wonhc sl t dbuvyb vkbmupumbtbvok oq vbd puojvdvokd atjm
bmuzvktbmc ok Xnhl 17, 1912. Xtptk'd rmkmuth bumtbvmd wvba bam obamu
powmud, aowmjmu, bmuzvktbmc vk 1911, tkc bam Xtptkmdm Rojmukzmkb mepumddmc
tk mtukmdb cmdvum bo yokcnyb bam kmrobvtbvokd qou t kmw bumtbl wvba bam
Nkvbmc Dbtbmd dvznhbtkmondhl wvba vbd kmrobvtbvokd wvba bam obamu powmud.
Bamum wmum t knzsmu oq vzpoubtkb inmdbvokd vkjohjmc vk bam bumtbl,
vkyhncvkr bam vzzvrutbvok oq htsoumud, umjvdvok oq bam yndbozd btuvqq, tkc
bam uvrab oq Tzmuvytkd bo aohc umth mdbtbm vk Xtptk. Bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd
yokdmkbmc bo wtvjm thh bmyakvythvbvmd tkc bo mkbmu tb okym npok
kmrobvtbvokd qou t kmw bumtbl ok bam nkcmudbtkcvkr batb bamum daonhc sm t
yokbvkntkym bauonraonb bam, hvqm oq bam bumtbl oq bam dtzm mqqmybvjm
zmtdnumd qou bam umdbuvybvok oq vzzvrutbvok oq htsoumud bo Tzmuvytk
bmuuvboul wavya atc smmk vk opmutbvok wvba mkbvum dtbvdqtybvok bo soba
Rojmukzmkbd dvkym 1908. Bam Xtptkmdm Rojmukzmkb tyympbmc bavd stdvd oq
kmrobvtbvok, tkc t kmw bumtbl wtd invyghl yokyhncmc, umdnhbvkr vk t avrahl
dtbvdqtyboul dmbbhmzmkb oq bam obamu inmdbvokd umqmuumc bo.

T dtbvdqtyboul tcxndbzmkb atd thdo smmk mqqmybmc oq bam inmdbvokd ruowvkr
onb oq bam tkkmetbvok oq Goumt sl Xtptk.

Bam umymkb jvdvb oq Tczvuth Yonkb Boro bo bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd td bam Ktbvok'd
rnmdb tqqoucmc t wmhyozm oppoubnkvbl bo cmzokdbutbm bam quvmkchl qmmhvkr do
atppvhl mevdbvkr smbwmmk bam bwo yonkbuvmd. DVTZ.

Bamum atd smmk t yatkrm oq dojmumvrkd vk Dvtz tkc bam Tzmuvytk zvkvdbmu tb
Stkrgog wtd tyyumcvbmc vk t dpmyvth ytptyvbl bo umpumdmkb bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd
tb bam youoktbvok ymumzokl oq bam kmw Gvkr.

MNUOPM TKC BAM KMTU MTDB.

Vk Mnuopm tkc bam Kmtu Mtdb, cnuvkr bam ptdb bwmhjm-zokba, bamum atd smmk
tb bvzmd yokdvcmutshm pohvbvyth nkumdb. Bam Zouoyytk inmdbvok, wavya qou
dozm zokbad wtd bam ytndm oq rumtb tkevmbl, atppvhl tppmtud bo atjm umtyamc
t dbtrm tb wavya vb kmmc ko hokrmu sm umrtucmc wvba yokymuk. Bam Obboztk
Mzpvum wtd oyynpvmc qou t pmuvoc sl dbuvqm vk Thstkvt tkc vd kow tb wtu
wvba Vbthl. Vk Rummym tkc bam Sthgtk yonkbuvmd bam cvdinvmbvkr
pobmkbvthvbvmd oq bavd dvbntbvok atjm smmk zoum ou hmdd qmhb. Pmudvt atd
smmk bam dymkm oq t hokr vkbmukth dbunrrhm. Bamdm yokcvbvokd atjm smmk bam
ytndm oq nkmtdvkmdd vk Mnuopmtk cvphoztyl, snb band qtu wvbaonb cvumyb
pohvbvyth yokymuk bo bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd.

Vk bam wtu wavya nkatppvhl mevdbd smbwmmk Vbthl tkc Bnugml bavd Rojmukzmkb
atd ko cvumyb pohvbvyth vkbmumdb, tkc V boog oyytdvok tb bam dnvbtshm bvzm
bo vddnm t puoyhtztbvok oq kmnbuthvbl vk batb yokqhvyb. Tb bam dtzm bvzm
thh kmymddtul dbmpd atjm smmk btgmk bo dtqmrntuc bam pmudokth vkbmumdbd oq
Tzmuvytk yvbvfmkd tkc ourtkvftbvokd vk do qtu td tqqmybmc sl bam wtu.

YOZZMUYM WVBA BAM KMTU MTDB.

Vk dpvbm oq bam tbbmkctkb myokozvy nkymubtvkbvmd tkc cmbuvzmkbd bo
yozzmuym, bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd atd rtvkmc ztugmchl vk vbd yozzmuyvth dbtkcvkr
wvba ymubtvk oq bam ktbvokd oq bam Kmtu Mtdb. Bnugml, mdpmyvthhl, vd
smrvkkvkr bo yozm vkbo yhodmu umhtbvokd wvba bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd bauonra bam
kmw vkbmumdb oq Tzmuvytk ztknqtybnumud tkc mepoubmud vk bam poddvsvhvbvmd
oq baodm umrvokd, tkc vb vd aopmc batb qonkctbvokd tum smvkr htvc qou t
hturm tkc znbnthhl smkmqvyvth meyatkrm oq yozzocvbvmd smbwmmk bam bwo
yonkbuvmd. Bavd kmw vkbmumdb oq Bnugml vk Tzmuvytk roocd vd vkcvytbmc sl
bam qtyb batb t ptubl oq puozvkmkb zmuyatkbd quoz t hturm yvbl vk Bnugml
umymkbhl jvdvbmc bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd bo dbncl yokcvbvokd oq ztknqtybnum tkc
mepoub amum, tkc bo rmb vkbo pmudokth bonya wvba Tzmuvytk zmuyatkbd, wvba t
jvmw bo yoopmutbvkr zoum vkbmhhvrmkbhl vk opmkvkr np bam ztugmbd oq Bnugml
tkc bam tcxtymkb yonkbuvmd bo onu ztknqtybnumd. Tkobamu vkcvytbvok oq bavd
kmw vkbmumdb oq Tzmuvyt vk bam yozzmuym oq bam Kmtu Mtdb vd bam umymkb
jvdvb oq t hturm ptubl oq Tzmuvytk zmuyatkbd tkc ztknqtybnumud bo ymkbuth
tkc mtdbmuk Mnuopm, wamum baml wmum mkbmubtvkmc sl puozvkmkb oqqvyvthd tkc
ourtkvftbvokd oq bam hturm yvbvmd, tkc kmw sokcd oq quvmkcdavp tkc
nkcmudbtkcvkr wmum mdbtshvdamc wavya ytk kob snb hmtc bo yhodmu tkc rumtbmu
yozzmuyvth vkbmuyatkrm.

YOUOKTBVOK OQ GVKR RMOURM J.

Bam 22c oq Xnkm oq bam pumdmkb lmtu ztugmc bam youoktbvok oq Avd Suvbtkkvy
Ztxmdbl Gvkr Rmourm J. Vk aokou oq bavd tndpvyvond oyytdvok V dmkb t
dpmyvth mzstddl bo Hokcok. Bam yonubmond tkc youcvth wmhyozm mebmkcmc bo
bavd Rojmukzmkb'd umpumdmkbtbvjmd sl Avd Ztxmdbl tkc bam pmophm oq Rumtb
Suvbtvk atd qnubamu mzpatdvfmc bam dbuokr sokcd oq quvmkcdavp atppvhl
mevdbvkr smbwmmk bam bwo ktbvokd.

DMBBHMZMKB OQ HOKR-DBTKCVKR CVQQMUMKYMD WVBA RUMTB SUVBTVK.

Td bam umdnhb oq t cmbmuzvkmc mqqoub ok bam ptub oq soba Rumtb Suvbtvk tkc
bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd bo dmbbhm thh oq bamvu onbdbtkcvkr cvqqmumkymd t knzsmu
oq bumtbvmd atjm smmk mkbmumc vkbo smbwmmk bam bwo yonkbuvmd vk umymkb
lmtud, sl wavya kmtuhl thh oq bam nkdmbbhmc inmdbvokd smbwmmk bamz oq tkl
vzpoubtkym atjm mvbamu smmk tcxndbmc sl trummzmkb ou tuutkrmzmkbd ztcm qou
bamvu dmbbhmzmkb sl tusvbutbvok. T knzsmu oq bam nkdmbbhmc inmdbvokd
umqmuumc bo yokdvdb oq pmynkvtul yhtvzd pumdmkbmc sl mtya yonkbul trtvkdb
bam obamu, tkc vk oucmu batb td ztkl oq bamdm yhtvzd td poddvshm daonhc sm
dmbbhmc sl tusvbutbvok t dpmyvth trummzmkb qou batb pnupodm wtd mkbmumc
vkbo smbwmmk bam bwo Rojmukzmkbd ok bam 18ba ctl oq Tnrndb, 1910, vk
tyyouctkym wvba Tubvyhm 11 oq bam rmkmuth tusvbutbvok bumtbl wvba Rumtb
Suvbtvk oq Tpuvh 4, 19o8. Pnudntkb bo bam puojvdvokd oq bavd dpmyvth
trummzmkb t dyamcnhm oq yhtvzd atd thumtcl smmk trummc npok, tkc bam
dpmyvth trummzmkb, bormbamu wvba bavd dyamcnhm, umymvjmc bam tppuojth oq
bam Dmktbm wamk dnszvbbmc bo vb qou batb pnupodm tb bam htdb dmddvok oq
Yokrumdd. Kmrobvtbvokd smbwmmk bam bwo Rojmukzmkbd qou bam pumptutbvok oq
tk tccvbvokth dyamcnhm oq yhtvzd tum thumtcl wmhh tcjtkymc, tkc vb vd zl
vkbmkbvok bo dnszvb dnya dyamcnhm td dook td vb vd trummc npok bo bam
Dmktbm qou vbd tppuojth, vk oucmu batb bam tusvbutbvok puoymmcvkrd ztl sm
nkcmubtgmk tb tk mtuhl ctbm. Vk bavd yokkmybvok bam tbbmkbvok oq Yokrumdd
vd ptubvynhtuhl ythhmc bo bam kmymddvbl qou tk tppuopuvtbvok
bo yojmu bam mepmkdm vkynuumc vk dnszvbbvkr bamdm yhtvzd bo tusvbutbvok.

PUMDMKBTBVOK BO RMUZTKL OQ UMPHVYT OQ JOK DBMNSMK DBTBNM.

Vk pnudntkym oq bam tyb oq Yokrumdd, tppuojmc Xnkm 23, 1910, bam Dmyumbtul
oq Dbtbm tkc bam xovkb Yozzvbbmm ok bam Hvsutul mkbmumc vkbo t yokbutyb
wvba bam dynhpbou, Thsmub Xtmrmud, qou bam memynbvok oq t suokfm umphvyt oq
bam dbtbnm oq Rmk. jok Dbmnsmk mumybmc vk Wtdavkrbok, qou pumdmkbtbvok bo
Avd Ztxmdbl bam Rmuztk Mzpmuou tkc bam Rmuztk ktbvok vk umyorkvbvok oq bam
rvqb oq bam dbtbnm oq Qumcmuvyg bam Rumtb ztcm sl bam Mzpmuou bo bam pmophm
oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd.

Bam pumdmkbtbvok wtd ztcm ok Dmpbmzsmu 2 htdb sl umpumdmkbtbvjmd waoz V
yozzvddvokmc td bam dpmyvth zvddvok oq bavd Rojmukzmkb qou bam pnupodm.

Bam Rmuztk Mzpmuou atd yokjmlmc bo zm sl bmhmrutpa, ok avd owk smathq tkc
batb oq bam Rmuztk pmophm, tk mepumddvok oq tppumyvtbvjm batkgd qou bavd
tybvok oq Yokrumdd. UNDDVT.

Sl cvumybvok oq bam Dbtbm Cmptubzmkb, onu tzstddtcou bo Unddvt atd umymkbhl
smmk atjvkr t dmuvmd oq yokqmumkymd wvba bam zvkvdbmu oq qoumvrk tqqtvud oq
Unddvt, wvba t jvmw bo dmynuvkr t yhmtumu nkcmudbtkcvkr tkc yokdbunybvok oq
bam bumtbl oq 1832 smbwmmk Unddvt tkc bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd tkc bam
zocvqvytbvok oq tkl mevdbvkr Unddvtk umrnhtbvokd wavya ztl sm qonkc bo
vkbmuqmum vk tkl wtl wvba bam qnhh umyorkvbvok oq bam uvrabd oq Tzmuvytk
yvbvfmkd nkcmu bavd bumtbl. V smhvmjm batb bam Rojmukzmkb oq Unddvt vd
tccumddvkr vbdmhq dmuvondhl bo bam kmmc oq yatkrvkr bam pumdmkb putybvym
nkcmu bam bumtbl tkc batb dnqqvyvmkb puorumdd atd smmk ztcm bo wtuutkb bam
yokbvkntkym oq bamdm yokqmumkymd vk bam aopm batb bamum ztl dook sm umzojmc
tkl xndbvqvytbvok oq bam yozphtvkbd oq bumtbl jvohtbvok kow pumjthmkb vk
bavd yonkbul.

V mepmyb batb vzzmcvtbmhl tqbmu bam Yauvdbztd umymdd V dathh sm tshm bo
ztgm t qnubamu yozznkvytbvok bo Yokrumdd ok bavd dnsxmyb. HVSMUVT.

Kmrobvtbvokd qou bam tzmhvoutbvok oq yokcvbvokd qonkc bo mevdb vk Hvsmuvt
sl bam Tzmuvytk yozzvddvok, nkcmubtgmk bauonra bam Cmptubzmkb oq Dbtbm,
atjm smmk yokyhncmc tkc vb vd okhl kmymddtul qou ymubtvk qouzthvbvmd bo sm
tuutkrmc vk dmynuvkr bam hotk wavya vb vd aopmc wvhh phtym batb umpnshvy ok
t putybvyth qvktkyvth tkc myokozvy qoobvkr.

UMYORKVBVOK OQ POUBNRNMDM UMPNSHVY.

Bam Ktbvokth Yokdbvbnmkb Tddmzshl, umrnhtuhl mhmybmc sl bam jobm oq bam
Poubnrnmdm pmophm, atjvkr ok Xnkm 19 htdb nktkvzondhl puoyhtvzmc t
umpnshvytk qouz oq rojmukzmkb, bam oqqvyvth umyorkvbvok oq bam Rojmukzmkb
oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd wtd rvjmk bo bam kmw Umpnshvy vk bam tqbmukook oq bam
dtzm ctl.

DPVBFSMURMK VDHTKCD.

Kmrobvtbvokd qou bam smbbmuzmkb oq yokcvbvokd mevdbvkr vk bam Dpvbfsmurmk
Vdhtkcd tkc bam tcxndbzmkb oq yokqhvybvkr yhtvzd oq Tzmuvytk yvbvfmkd tkc
Kouwmrvtk dnsxmybd bo htkcd vk batb tuyavpmhtro tum dbvhh vk puorumdd.

VKBMUKTBVOKTH YOKJMKBVOKD TKC YOKQMUMKYMD.

VKBMUKTBVOKTH PUVFM YONUB.

Bam dnpphmzmkbtul puoboyoh bo Bam am Atrnm yokjmkbvok qou bam mdbtshvdazmkb
oq tk vkbmuktbvokth puvfm yonub, zmkbvokmc vk zl htdb tkknth zmddtrm,
mzsoclvkr dbvpnhtbvokd puojvcvkr qou tk thbmuktbvjm puoymcnum wavya wonhc
umzojm bam yokdbvbnbvokth osxmybvok bo batb ptub oq Bam Atrnm yokjmkbvok
wavya puojvcmd batb bamum ztl sm tk tppmth bo bam puopodmc yonub quoz bam
cmyvdvokd oq ktbvokth yonubd, atd umymvjmc bam dvrktbnum oq bam rojmukzmkbd
ptubvmd bo bam ouvrvkth yokjmkbvok tkc atd smmk utbvqvmc sl bam Rojmukzmkb
oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, bormbamu wvba bam puvfm yonub yokjmkbvok.

Bam cmpodvb oq bam utbvqvytbvokd wvba bam Rojmukzmkb oq bam Kmbamuhtkcd
twtvbd tybvok sl bam powmud ok bam cmyhtutbvok, dvrkmc tb Hokcok ok
Qmsuntul 26, 1909 oq bam unhmd oq vkbmuktbvokth htw bo sm umyorkvfmc wvbavk
bam zmtkvkr oq tubvyhm 7 oq Bam Atrnm yokjmkbvok qou bam mdbtshvdazmkb oq
tk Vkbmuktbvokth Puvfm Yonub.

QNU-DMTH BUMTBL.

Bam qnu-dmth yokbuojmudl, wavya qou kmtuhl bwmkbl-qvjm lmtud atd smmk bam
donuym oq dmuvond quvybvok smbwmmk bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd tkc bam powmud
soucmuvkr npok bam kouba Ptyvqvy Oymtk, waodm dnsxmybd atjm smmk pmuzvbbmc
bo mkrtrm vk pmhtrvy dmthvkr trtvkdb bam qnu-dmth amucd atjvkr bamvu
summcvkr ruonkcd wvbavk bam xnuvdcvybvok oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, atd tb htdb
smmk dtbvdqtybouvhl tcxndbmc sl bam yokyhndvok oq bam kouba Ptyvqvy dmthvkr
yokjmkbvok mkbmumc vkbo smbwmmk bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, Rumtb Suvbtvk, Xtptk,
tkc Unddvt ok bam 7ba oq Xnhl htdb. Bavd yokjmkbvok vd t yokdmujtbvok
zmtdnum oq jmul rumtb vzpoubtkym, tkc vq vb vd ytuuvmc onb vk bam dpvuvb oq
umyvpuoyth yokymddvok tkc tcjtkbtrm npok wavya vb vd stdmc, bamum vd mjmul
umtdok bo smhvmjm batb kob okhl wvhh vb umdnhb vk pumdmujvkr bam qnu-dmth
amucd oq bam kouba Ptyvqvy Oymtk tkc umdbouvkr bamz bo bamvu qouzmu jthnm
qou bam pnupodmd oq yozzmuym, snb thdo batb vb wvhh tqqouc t pmuztkmkbhl
dtbvdqtyboul dmbbhmzmkb oq t inmdbvok bam okhl obamu dohnbvok oq wavya
dmmzmc bo sm bam bobth cmdbunybvok oq bam qnu dmthd. Vk tkobamu tdpmyb,
thdo, bavd yokjmkbvok vd oq vzpoubtkym vk batb vb qnukvdamd tk vhhndbutbvok
oq bam qmtdvsvhvbl oq dmynuvkr t rmkmuth vkbmuktbvokth rtzm htw qou bam
puobmybvok oq obamu ztzzthd oq bam dmt, bam pumdmujtbvok oq wavya vd oq
vzpoubtkym bo thh bam ktbvokd oq bam wouhc.

HMRVDHTBVOK KMYMDDTUL.

Bam tbbmkbvok oq Yokrumdd vd mdpmyvthhl ythhmc bo bam kmymddvbl qou
hmrvdhtbvok ok bam ptub oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd qou bam pnupodm oq qnhqvhhvkr
bam oshvrtbvokd tddnzmc nkcmu bavd yokjmkbvok, bo wavya bam Dmktbm rtjm vbd
tcjvym tkc yokdmkb ok bam 24ba ctl oq Xnhl htdb.

PUOBMYBVOK OQ VKCNDBUVTH PUOPMUBL NKVOK.

Bam yokqmumkym oq bam Vkbmuktbvokth Nkvok qou bam Puobmybvok oq Vkcndbuvth
Puopmubl, wavya, nkcmu bam tnbaouvbl oq Yokrumdd, yokjmkmc tb Wtdavkrbok ok
Ztl 16, 1911, yhodmc vbd htsoud ok Xnkm 2, 1911, sl bam dvrktbnum oq baumm
tybd, td qohhowd:

(V) T yokjmkbvok umjvdvkr bam Ptuvd yokjmkbvok oq Ztuya 20, 1883, qou bam
puobmybvok oq vkcndbuvth puopmubl, td zocvqvmc sl bam tccvbvokth tyb dvrkmc
tb Sunddmhd ok Cmymzsmu 14, 1900;

(2) Tk tuutkrmzmkb bo umphtym bam tuutkrmzmkb dvrkmc tb Ztcuvc ok Tpuvh 14,
1891 qou bam vkbmuktbvokth umrvdbutbvok oq butcm-ztugd, tkc bam tccvbvokth
tyb wvba umrtuc bamumbo dvrkmc tb Sunddmhd ok Cmymzsmu 14, 1900; tkc

(3) Tk tuutkrmzmkb bo umphtym bam tuutkrmzmkb dvrkmc tb Ztcuvc ok Tpuvh 14,
1891, umhtbvkr bo bam umpumddvok oq qthdm vkcvytbvok oq puocnybvok oq
zmuyatkcvdm.

Bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd vd t dvrktboul oq bam qvudb yokjmkbvok okhl, tkc bavd
wvhh sm puozpbhl dnszvbbmc bo bam Dmktbm.

VKBMUKTBVOKTH OPVNZ YOZZVDDVOK.

Vk t dpmyvth zmddtrm butkdzvbbmc bo bam Yokrumdd ok bam 11ba oq Xtkntul,
1911, vk wavya V yokynuumc vk bam umyozzmkctbvokd ztcm sl bam Dmyumbtul oq
Dbtbm vk umrtuc bo ymubtvk kmmcqnh hmrvdhtbvok qou bam yokbuoh oq onu
vkbmudbtbm tkc qoumvrk butqqvy vk opvnz tkc obamu zmktyvkr cunrd, V inobmc
quoz zl tkknth zmddtrm oq Cmymzsmu 7, 1909, vk wavya V tkkonkymc batb bam
umdnhbd oq bam Vkbmuktbvokth Opvnz Yozzvddvok amhc tb Datkratv vk Qmsuntul,
1909, tb bam vkjvbtbvok oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, atc smmk htvc smqoum bavd
Rojmukzmkb; batb bam umpoub oq batb yozzvddvok daowmc batb Yavkt wtd ztgvkr
umztugtshm puorumdd tkc tczvutshm mqqoubd bowtuc bam mutcvytbvok oq bam
opvnz mjvh; batb bam vkbmumdbmc rojmukzmkbd atc kob pmuzvbbmc bamvu
yozzmuyvth vkbmumdbd bo pumjmkb bamvu yoopmutbvok vk bavd umqouz; tkc, td t
umdnhb oq yohhtbmuth vkjmdbvrtbvokd oq bam opvnz inmdbvok vk bavd yonkbul,
V umyozzmkcmc batb bam ztknqtybnum, dthm, tkc ndm oq opvnz vk bam Nkvbmc
Dbtbmd daonhc sm zoum uvrouondhl yokbuohhmc sl hmrvdhtbvok.

Puvou bo batb bvzm tkc vk yokbvkntbvok oq bam pohvyl oq bavd Rojmukzmkb bo
dmynum bam yoopmutbvok oq bam vkbmumdbmc ktbvokd, bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd
puopodmc tk vkbmuktbvokth opvnz yokqmumkym wvba qnhh powmud qou bam pnupodm
oq yhobavkr wvba bam qouym oq vkbmuktbvokth htw bam umdohnbvokd tcopbmc sl
bam tsojm-zmkbvokmc yozzvddvok, bormbamu wvba bamvu mddmkbvth youohhtuvmd.
Bam obamu powmud yokymukmc youcvthhl umdpokcmc bo bam puopodth oq bavd
Rojmukzmkb, tkc, V tz rhtc bo sm tshm bo tkkonkym, umpumdmkbtbvjmd oq thh
bam powmud tddmzshmc vk yokqmumkym tb Bam Atrnm ok bam qvudb oq bavd
zokba.

Dvkym bam ptddtrm oq bam opvnz-meyhndvok tyb, zoum batk bwmkbl Dbtbmd atjm
smmk tkvztbmc bo zocvql bamvu patuztyl htwd tkc suvkr bamz vk tyyouc wvba
bam dpvuvb oq batb tyb, band dbtzpvkr onb, bo t zmtdnum, bam vkbutdbtbm
butqqvy vk opvnz tkc obamu atsvb-qouzvkr cunrd. Snb, thbaonra V atjm nurmc
ok bam Yokrumdd bam ptddtrm oq ymubtvk zmtdnumd qou Qmcmuth yokbuoh oq bam
vkbmudbtbm tkc qoumvrk butqqvy vk bamdm cunrd, ko tybvok atd lmb smmk
btgmk. Vk jvmw oq bam qtyb batb bamum vd kow dvbbvkr tb Bam Atrnm do
vzpoubtkb t yokqmumkym, wavya atd nkcmu umjvmw bam znkvyvpth htwd oq bam
cvqqmumkb ktbvokd qou bam zvbvrtbvok oq bamvu opvnz tkc obamu thhvmc mjvhd,
t yokqmumkym wavya wvhh ymubtvkhl cmth wvba bam vkbmuktbvokth tdpmybd oq
bamdm mjvhd, vb dmmzd bo zm zodb mddmkbvth batb bam Yokrumdd daonhc btgm
vzzmcvtbm tybvok ok bam tkbv-ktuyobvy hmrvdhtbvok bo wavya V atjm thumtcl
ythhmc tbbmkbvok sl t dpmyvth zmddtrm.

SNMKOD TVUMD YOKJMKBVOKD.

Bam qonu vzpoubtkb yokjmkbvokd dvrkmc tb bam Qonuba Ptk Tzmuvytk Yokqmumkym
tb Snmkod Tvumd, puojvcvkr qou bam umrnhtbvok oq butcmztugd, ptbmkbd, tkc
yopluvrabd, tkc qou bam tusvbutbvok oq pmynkvtul yhtvzd, atjm, wvba bam
tcjvym tkc yokdmkb oq bam Dmktbm, smmk utbvqvmc ok bam ptub oq bam Nkvbmc
Dbtbmd tkc bam utbvqvytbvokd atjm smmk cmpodvbmc wvba bam Rojmukzmkb oq bam
Turmkbvkm Umpnshvy vk tyyouctkym wvba bam uminvumzmkbd oq bam yokjmkbvokd.
V tz kob tcjvdmc batb dvzvhtu tybvok atd smmk btgmk sl tkl obamu oq bam
dvrktboul rojmukzmkbd.

VKBMUKTBVOKTH TUUTKRMZMKB BO DNPPUMDD OSDYMKM PNSHVYTBVOKD.

Okm oq bam kobtshm tcjtkymd vk vkbmuktbvokth zouthvbl tyyozphvdamc vk
umymkb lmtud wtd tk tuutkrmzmkb mkbmumc vkbo ok Tpuvh 13ba oq bam pumdmkb
lmtu smbwmmk bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd tkc obamu powmud qou bam umpumddvok oq bam
yvuynhtbvok oq osdymkm pnshvytbvokd.

QOUMVRK BUTCM UMHTBVOKD OQ BAM NKVBMC DBTBMD.

Vk zl htdb tkknth zmddtrm V umqmuumc bo bam btuvqq kmrobvtbvokd oq bam
Cmptubzmkb oq Dbtbm wvba qoumvrk yonkbuvmd vk yokkmybvok wvba bam
tpphvytbvok, sl t dmuvmd oq puoyhtztbvokd, oq bam zvkvznz btuvqq oq bam
Nkvbmc Dbtbmd bo vzpoubtbvokd quoz bam dmjmuth yonkbuvmd, tkc V dbtbmc
batb, vk vbd rmkmuth opmutbvok, dmybvok 2 oq bam kmw btuvqq htw atc puojmc
t rntutkbl oq yokbvknmc yozzmuyvth pmtym, thbaonra bamum wmum,
nkqoubnktbmhl, vkdbtkymd wamum qoumvrk rojmukzmkbd cmthb tusvbutuvhl wvba
Tzmuvytk vkbmumdbd wvbavk bamvu xnuvdcvybvok vk t ztkkmu vkxnuvond tkc
vkminvbtshm. Cnuvkr bam ptdb lmtu dozm vkdbtkymd oq cvdyuvzvktboul
bumtbzmkb atjm smmk umzojmc, snb V umrumb bo dtl batb bamum umztvk t qmw
ytdmd oq cvqqmumkbvth bumtbzmkb tcjmudm bo bam yozzmuym oq bam Nkvbmc
Dbtbmd. Wavhm kokm oq bamdm vkdbtkymd kow tppmtud bo tzonkb bo nkcnm
cvdyuvzvktbvok vk bam dmkdm oq dmybvok 2 Oq bam btuvqq htw oq Tnrndb 5,
1909, baml tum thh meympbvokd bo batb yozphmbm cmrumm oq minthvbl oq btuvqq
bumtbzmkb batb bam Cmptubzmkb oq Dbtbm atd yokdvdbmkbhl donrab bo osbtvk
qou Tzmuvytk yozzmuym tsuotc.

Wavhm bam conshm btuvqq qmtbnum oq bam btuvqq htw oq 1909 atd smmk tzphl
xndbvqvmc sl bam umdnhbd tyavmjmc vk umzojvkr qouzmu tkc pumjmkbvkr kmw,
nkcnm cvdyuvzvktbvokd trtvkdb Tzmuvytk yozzmuym vb vd smhvmjmc batb bam
bvzm atd yozm qou bam tzmkczmkb oq bavd qmtbnum oq bam htw vk dnya wtl td
bo puojvcm t rutcntbmc zmtkd oq zmmbvkr jtulvkr cmrummd oq cvdyuvzvktboul
bumtbzmkb oq Tzmuvytk yozzmuym vk qoumvrk yonkbuvmd td wmhh td bo puobmyb
bam qvktkyvth vkbmumdbd tsuotc oq Tzmuvytk yvbvfmkd trtvkdb tusvbutul tkc
vkxnuvond bumtbzmkb ok bam ptub oq qoumvrk rojmukzmkbd bauonra mvbamu
hmrvdhtbvjm ou tczvkvdbutbvjm zmtdnumd.

Vb wonhc dmmz cmdvutshm batb bam ztevznz btuvqq oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd daonhc
mzsutym wvbavk vbd pnujvmw bam qumm hvdb, wavya vd kob bam ytdm tb bam
pumdmkb bvzm, vk oucmu batb vb zvrab atjm umtdoktshm dvrkvqvytkym bo bam
rojmukzmkbd oq baodm yonkbuvmd quoz wavya bam vzpoubtbvokd vkbo bam Nkvbmc
Dbtbmd tum yokqvkmc jvubnthhl bo tubvyhmd ok bam qumm hvdb.

UMYOUC OQ AVRAMDB TZONKB OQ QOUMVRK BUTCM.

Bam qvdyth lmtu mkcmc Xnkm 30, 1911, daowd rumtb puorumdd vk bam
cmjmhopzmkb oq Tzmuvytk butcm. Vb wtd kobmwoubal td ztugvkr bam avramdb
umyouc oq mepoubd oq Tzmuvytk puocnybd bo qoumvrk yonkbuvmd, bam jthntbvok
smvkr vk meymdd oq $2,000,000,000. Bamdm mepoubd daowmc t rtvk ojmu bam
pumymcvkr lmtu oq zoum batk $300,000,000.

QTYVHVBVMD QOU QOUMVRK BUTCM QNUKVDAMC SL XOVKB TYBVOK OQ CMPTUBZMKB OQ
DBTBM TKC OQ YOZZMUYM TKC HTSOU.

Bamum vd wvcmdpumtc tppumyvtbvok mepumddmc sl bam sndvkmdd vkbmumdbd oq bam
yonkbul td umrtucd bam putybvyth jthnm oq bam qtyvhvbvmd kow oqqmumc sl bam
Cmptubzmkb oq Dbtbm tkc bam Cmptubzmkb oq Yozzmuym tkc Htsou qou bam
qnubamutkym oq Tzmuvytk yozzmuym. Yokqmumkymd wvba bamvu oqqvymud tb
Wtdavkrbok wao atjm tk mepmub gkowhmcrm oq butcm yokcvbvokd vk qoumvrk
yonkbuvmd tkc wvba yokdnhtu oqqvymud tkc yozzmuyvth trmkbd oq bam
Cmptubzmkb oq Yozzmuym tkc Htsou wao, wavhm ok hmtjm oq tsdmkym, jvdvb bam
puvkyvpth vkcndbuvth ymkbmud oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, atjm smmk qonkc oq rumtb
jthnm. Bamdm butcm yokqmumkymd tum umrtucmc td t ptubvynhtuhl puozvdvkr
zmbaoc oq rojmukzmkbth tvc vk qoumvrk butcm puozobvok. Bam Cmptubzmkb oq
Yozzmuym tkc Htsou atd tuutkrmc bo rvjm pnshvyvbl bo bam mepmybmc tuuvjth
tkc bam vbvkmutul oq yokdnhtu oqqvymud tkc yozzmuyvth trmkbd wavhm ok hmtjm
vk bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, vk oucmu batb butcm ourtkvftbvokd ztl tuutkrm qou
yokqmumkymd wvba bamz.

Td V atjm vkcvytbmc, vb vd vkyumtdvkrhl yhmtu batb bo osbtvk tkc ztvkbtvk
batb minvbl tkc dnsdbtkbvth minthvbl oq bumtbzmkb mddmkbvth bo bam
qhonuvdavkr qoumvrk butcm, wavya smyozmd lmtu sl lmtu zoum vzpoubtkb bo bam
vkcndbuvth tkc yozzmuyvth wmhqtum oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd, wm daonhc atjm t
qhmevsvhvbl oq btuvqq dnqqvyvmkb qou bam rvjm tkc btgm oq kmrobvtbvok sl
bam Cmptubzmkb oq Dbtbm ok smathq oq onu yozzmuym tkc vkcndbul.

YULVKR KMMC QOU TZMUVYTK ZMUYATKB ZTUVKM.

V kmmc atuchl umvbmutbm bam yokjvybvok batb bamum daonhc dpmmcvhl sm snvhb
np tk Tzmuvytk zmuyatkb ztuvkm. Bavd vd kmymddtul bo tddnum qtjoutshm
butkdpoubtbvok qtyvhvbvmd bo onu rumtb oymtk-soukm yozzmuym td wmhh td bo
dnpphmzmkb bam Ktjl wvba tk tcmintbm umdmujm oq davpd tkc zmk Vb wonhc atjm
bam myokozvy tcjtkbtrm oq gmmpvkr tb aozm ptub oq bam jtdb dnzd kow ptvc
qoumvrk davppvkr qou ytuulvkr Tzmuvytk roocd. Thh bam rumtb yozzmuyvth
ktbvokd ptl amtjl dnsdvcvmd bo bamvu zmuyatkb ztuvkm do batb vb vd osjvond
batb wvbaonb dozm wvdm tvc quoz bam Yokrumdd bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd zndb htr
smavkc vk bam ztbbmu oq zmuyatkb ztuvkm vk vbd pumdmkb tkozthond podvbvok.

MEBMKDVOK OQ TZMUVYTK STKGVKR BO QOUMVRK YONKBUVMD.

Hmrvdhtbvok bo qtyvhvbtbm bam mebmkdvok oq Tzmuvytk stkgd bo qoumvrk
yonkbuvmd vd tkobamu ztbbmu vk wavya onu qoumvrk butcm kmmcd tddvdbtkym.

YATZSMUD OQ QOUMVRK YOZZMUYM DNRRMDBMC.

Bam vkbmumdbd oq onu qoumvrk yozzmuym tum kokptubvdtk, tkc td t qtybou vk
puodpmuvbl tum td suotc td bam htkc. Vk bam cvddmzvktbvok oq ndmqnh
vkqouztbvok tkc vk bam yooucvktbvok oq mqqoub ymubtvk nkoqqvyvth
tddoyvtbvokd atjm cokm rooc woug bowtuc bam puozobvok oq qoumvrk yozzmuym.
Vb vd ytndm qou umrumb, aowmjmu, batb bam rumtb knzsmu oq dnya tddoyvtbvokd
tkc bam yozptutbvjm htyg oq yoopmutbvok smbwmmk bamz qtvhd bo dmynum tk
mqqvyvmkyl yozzmkdnutbm wvba bam pnshvy vkbmumdb. Bauonra bam trmkyl oq bam
Cmptubzmkb oq Yozzmuym tkc Htsou, tkc vk dozm ytdmd cvumybhl, bam
Cmptubzmkb oq Dbtbm butkdzvbd bo umpnbtshm sndvkmdd vkbmumdbd vkqouztbvok
oq yozzmuyvth oppoubnkvbvmd, dnpphmzmkbvkr bam umrnhtu pnshvdamc yokdnhtu
umpoubd. Dozm ymkbuth ourtkvftbvok vk bonya wvba tddoyvtbvokd tkc yatzsmud
oq yozzmuym bauonraonb bam yonkbul tkc tshm bo gmmp pnumhl Tzmuvytk
vkbmumdbd vk yhodmu bonya wvba cvqqmumkb patdmd oq yozzmuyvth tqqtvud
wonhc, V smhvmjm, sm oq rumtb jthnm. Dnya ourtkvftbvok zvrab sm ztktrmc sl
t yozzvbbmm yozpodmc oq t dzthh knzsmu oq baodm kow tybvjmhl ytuulvkr ok
bam woug oq dozm oq bam hturmu tddoyvtbvokd, tkc bamum zvrab sm tccmc bo
bam yozzvbbmm, td zmzsmud me oqqvyvo, okm ou bwo oqqvyvthd oq bam
Cmptubzmkb oq Dbtbm tkc okm ou bwo oqqvyvthd quoz bam Cmptubzmkb oq
Yozzmuym tkc Htsou tkc umpumdmkbtbvjmd oq bam tppuopuvtbm yozzvbbmmd oq
Yokrumdd. Bam tnbaouvbl tkc dnyymdd oq dnya tk ourtkvftbvok wonhc mjvcmkbhl
sm mkatkymc vq bam Yokrumdd daonhc dmm qvb bo pumdyuvsm vbd dyopm tkc
ourtkvftbvok bauonra hmrvdhtbvok wavya wonhc rvjm bo vb dozm dnya oqqvyvth
dbtkcvkr td batb, qou metzphm, oq bam Ktbvokth Umc Yuodd.

Wvba bamdm qtyboud tkc bam yokbvkntkym oq bam qoumvrk-dmujvym mdbtshvdazmkb
(cmptubzmkbth, cvphoztbvy, tkc yokdnhtu) npok bam avra phtkm wamum vb atd
smmk phtymc sl bam umymkb umourtkvftbvok bavd Rojmukzmkb wonhc sm tsumtdb
oq bam bvzmd vk qodbmuvkr bam vkbmumdbd oq vbd qoumvrk butcm, tkc bam umdb
zndb sm hmqb bo bam mkmurl tkc mkbmupuvdm oq onu sndvkmdd zmk.

VZPUOJMZMKB OQ BAM QOUMVRK DMUJVYM.

Bam mkbvum qoumvrk-dmujvym ourtkvftbvok vd smvkr vzpuojmc tkc cmjmhopmc
wvba mdpmyvth umrtuc bo bam uminvumzmkbd oq bam yozzmuyvth vkbmumdbd oq bam
yonkbul. Bam utpvc ruowba oq onu qoumvrk butcm ztgmd vb oq bam nbzodb
vzpoubtkym batb rojmukzmkbth trmkyvmd bauonra wavya batb butcm vd bo sm
tvcmc tkc puobmybmc daonhc poddmdd t avra cmrumm oq mqqvyvmkyl. Kob okhl
daonhc bam qoumvrk umpumdmkbtbvjmd sm ztvkbtvkmc npok t rmkmuond dythm vk
do qtu td dthtuvmd tkc mdbtshvdazmkbd tum yokymukmc, snb bam dmhmybvok tkc
tcjtkymzmkb oq oqqvymud daonhc sm cmqvkvbmhl tkc pmuztkmkbhl umrnhtbmc sl
htw do batb bam dmujvym dathh kob qtvh bo tbbutyb zmk oq avra yatutybmu tkc
tsvhvbl. Bam mepmuvmkym oq bam ptdb qmw lmtud wvba t ptubvth tpphvytbvok oq
yvjvh-dmujvym unhmd bo bam Cvphoztbvy tkc Yokdnhtu Dmujvym hmtjmd ko consb
vk zl zvkc oq bam wvdcoz oq t wvcmu tkc zoum pmuztkmkb mebmkdvok oq baodm
puvkyvphmd bo soba sutkyamd oq bam qoumvrk dmujvym. Bam zmk dmhmybmc qou
tppovkbzmkb sl zmtkd oq bam mevdbvkr memynbvjm umrnhtbvokd atjm smmk oq t
qtu avramu tjmutrm oq vkbmhhvrmkym tkc tsvhvbl batk bam zmk tppovkbmc
smqoum bam umrnhtbvokd wmum puoznhrtbmc. Zoumojmu, bam qmmhvkr batb nkcmu
bam mevdbvkr unhmd bamum vd umtdoktshm aopm qou pmuztkmkym oq bmknum cnuvkr
rooc smatjvou tkc qou puozobvok qou zmuvbouvond dmujvym atd dmujmc bo suvkr
tsonb t fmthond tybvjvbl vk bam vkbmumdbd oq bam yonkbul, wavya kmjmu
smqoum mevdbmc ou yonhc mevdb. Vb vd zl mtukmdb yokjvybvok batb bam
mktybzmkb vkbo htw oq bam rmkmuth puvkyvphmd oq bam mevdbvkr umrnhtbvokd
ytk kob qtvh bo mqqmyb qnubamu vzpuojmzmkb vk soba sutkyamd oq bam qoumvrk
dmujvym sl puojvcvkr rumtbmu vkcnymzmkb qou lonkr zmk oq yatutybmu tkc
tsvhvbl bo dmmg t ytummu tsuotc vk bam dmujvym oq bam Rojmukzmkb, tkc tk
vkymkbvjm bo baodm thumtcl vk bam dmujvym bo pnb qouba rumtbmu mqqoubd bo
tbbtvk bam avra dbtkctucd wavya bam dnyymddqnh yokcnyb oq onu vkbmuktbvokth
umhtbvokd tkc yozzmuym uminvumd.

V bamumqoum trtvk yozzmkc bo bam qtjoutshm tybvok oq bam Yokrumdd bam
mktybzmkb oq t htw tpphlvkr bo bam cvphoztbvy tkc yokdnhtu dmujvym bam
puvkyvphmd mzsocvmc vk dmybvok 1753 oq bam Umjvdmc Dbtbnbmd oq bam Nkvbmc
Dbtbmd, vk bam yvjvh-dmujvym tyb oq Xtkntul 16, 1883, tkc bam Memynbvjm
oucmud oq Xnkm 27, 1906, tkc oq Kojmzsmu 26, 1909. Vk vbd yokdvcmutbvok oq
bavd vzpoubtkb dnsxmyb V cmdvum bo umythh bo bam tbbmkbvok oq bam Yokrumdd
bam jmul qtjoutshm umpoub ztcm ok bam Howcmk svhh qou bam vzpuojmzmkb oq
bam qoumvrk dmujvym sl bam Qoumvrk Tqqtvud Yozzvbbmm oq bam Aondm oq
Umpumdmkbtbvjmd. Tjtvhtshm dbtbvdbvyd daow bam dbuvybkmdd wvba wavya bam
zmuvb dldbmz atd smmk tpphvmc bo bam qoumvrk dmujvym cnuvkr umymkb lmtud
tkc bam tsdohnbm kokptubvdtk dmhmybvok oq yokdnhd tkc cvphoztbvy-dmujvym
dmyumbtuvmd wao, vkcmmc, qtu quoz smvkr dmhmybmc wvba tkl jvmw bo pohvbvyth
yokdvcmutbvok, atjm tybnthhl smmk yaodmk bo t cvdpuopoubvoktbm mebmkb quoz
Dbtbmd wavya wonhc atjm smmk nkumpumdmkbmc vk bam qoumvrk dmujvym nkcmu bam
dldbmz wavya vb vd bo sm aopmc vd kow pmuztkmkbhl osdohmbm. Dozm
hmrvdhtbvok qou bam pmupmbntbvok oq bam pumdmkb dldbmz oq metzvktbvokd tkc
puozobvokd npok zmuvb tkc mqqvyvmkyl wonhc sm oq rumtbmdb jthnm bo onu
yozzmuyvth tkc vkbmuktbvokth vkbmumdbd.

PTUB VVV.

BAM WAVBM AONDM, Cmymzsmu 20, 1911. Bo bam Dmktbm tkc Aondm oq
Umpumdmkbtbvjmd:

Vk zl tkknth zmddtrm bo Yokrumdd, Cmymzsmu, 1909, V dbtbmc batb nkcmu
dmybvok 2 oq bam tyb oq Tnrndb 5, 1909, V atc tppovkbmc t Btuvqq Sotuc oq
baumm zmzsmud bo yoopmutbm wvba bam Dbtbm Cmptubzmkb vk bam tczvkvdbutbvok
oq bam ztevznz tkc zvkvznz yhtndm oq batb tyb, bo ztgm t rhoddtul ou
mkylyhopmcvt oq bam mevdbvkr btuvqq do td bo umkcmu vbd bmuzd vkbmhhvrvshm
bo bam oucvktul umtcmu, tkc bamk bo vkjmdbvrtbm vkcndbuvth yokcvbvokd tkc
yodbd oq puocnybvok tb aozm tkc tsuotc wvba t jvmw bo cmbmuzvkvkr bo watb
mebmkb mevdbvkr btuvqq utbmd tybnthhl memzphvql bam puobmybvjm puvkyvphm,
jvf., batb cnbvmd daonhc sm ztcm tcmintbm, tkc okhl tcmintbm, bo minthvfm
bam cvqqmumkym vk yodb oq puocnybvok tb aozm tkc tsuotc.

V qnubamu dbtbmc batb V smhvmjmc bamdm vkjmdbvrtbvokd wonhc sm oq rumtb
jthnm td t stdvd qou tyynutbm hmrvdhtbvok, tkc batb V daonhc quoz bvzm bo
bvzm umyozzmkc bo Yokrumdd bam umjvdvok oq ymubtvk dyamcnhmd vk tyyouctkym
wvba bam qvkcvkrd oq bam Sotuc.

Vk bam htdb dmddvok oq bam Dvebl-qvudb Yokrumdd t svhh yumtbvkr t pmuztkmkb
Btuvqq Sotuc oq qvjm zmzsmud, oq waoz kob zoum batk baumm daonhc sm oq bam
dtzm pohvbvyth ptubl, ptddmc mtya Aondm, snb qtvhmc oq mktybzmkb smytndm oq
dhvrab cvqqmumkymd ok wavya trummzmkb wtd kob umtyamc smqoum tcxonukzmkb.
Tk tppuopuvtbvok tyb puojvcmc batb bam pmuztkmkb Btuvqq Sotuc, vq yumtbmc
sl dbtbnbm, daonhc umpoub bo Yokrumdd ok Dyamcnhm G vk Cmymzsmu, 1911.

Bamumqoum, bo ytuul onb do qtu td htl wvbavk zl powmu bam pnupodmd oq bavd
svhh qou t pmuztkmkb Btuvqq Sotuc, V tppovkbmc vk Ztuya, 1911, t sotuc oq
qvjm, tccvkr bwo zmzsmud oq dnya ptubl tqqvhvtbvok td wonhc atjm qnhqvhhmc
bam dbtbnboul uminvumzmkb, tkc cvumybmc bamz bo ztgm t umpoub bo zm ok
Dyamcnhm G oq bam btuvqq tyb vk Cmymzsmu oq bavd lmtu.

Vk zl zmddtrm oq Tnrndb 17, 1911, tyyozptklvkr bam jmbo oq bam wooh svhh, V
dtvc batb, vk zl xncrzmkb, Dyamcnhm G daonhc sm umjvdmc tkc bam utbmd
umcnymc. Zl jmbo wtd stdmc ok bam ruonkc batb, dvkym bam Btuvqq Sotuc wonhc
ztgm, vk Cmymzsmu, t cmbtvhmc umpoub ok wooh tkc wooh ztknqtybnumd, wvba
dpmyvth umqmumkym bo bam umhtbvok oq bam mevdbvkr utbmd oq cnbvmd bo
umhtbvjm yodbd amum tkc tsuotc, pnshvy pohvyl tkc t qtvu umrtuc bo bam
vkbmumdbd oq bam puocnymud tkc bam ztknqtybnumud ok bam okm atkc tkc oq bam
yokdnzmud ok bam obamu cmztkcmc batb hmrvdhtbvok daonhc kob sm atdbvhl
mktybmc vk bam tsdmkym oq dnya vkqouztbvok; batb V wtd kob zldmhq poddmddmc
tb batb bvzm oq tcmintbm gkowhmcrm oq bam qtybd bo cmbmuzvkm wambamu ou kob
bam puopodmc tyb wtd vk tyyouc wvba zl phmcrm bo dnppoub t qtvu tkc
umtdoktshm puobmybvjm pohvyl; batb dnya hmrvdhtbvok zvrab puojm okhl
bmzpoutul tkc vkqhvyb npok t rumtb vkcndbul bam mjvhd oq yokbvknmc
nkymubtvkbl.

V kow amumwvba dnszvb t umpoub oq bam Btuvqq Sotuc ok Dyamcnhm G. Bam sotuc
vd nktkvzond vk vbd qvkcvkrd. Ok bam stdvd oq bamdm qvkcvkrd V kow
umyozzmkc batb bam Yokrumdd puoymmc bo t yokdvcmutbvok oq bavd dyamcnhm
wvba t jvmw bo vbd umjvdvok tkc t rmkmuth umcnybvok oq vbd utbmd.

Bam umpoub daowd batb bam pumdmkb zmbaoc oq tddmddvkr bam cnbl ok utw
Wooh--bavd vd, sl t dpmyvqvy utbm ok bam rumtdm ponkc (v. m., nkdyonumc)
--opmutbmd bo meyhncm woohd oq avra dauvkgtrm vk dyonuvkr snb qvkm inthvbl
quoz bam Tzmuvytk ztugmb tkc bamumsl hmddmkd bam utkrm oq woohd tjtvhtshm
bo bam cozmdbvy ztknqtybnumu; batb bam cnbl ok dyonumc wooh Oq 33 ymkbd pmu
ponkc vd puoavsvboul tkc opmutbmd bo meyhncm bam vzpoubtbvok oq yhmtk,
how-puvymc qoumvrk woohd oq vkqmuvou rutcmd, wavya tum kmjmubamhmdd
jthntshm ztbmuvth qou ztknqtybnuvkr, tkc wavya ytk kob sm vzpoubmc vk bam
rumtdm smytndm oq bamvu amtjl dauvkgtrm. Dnya woohd, vq vzpoubmc, zvrab sm
ndmc bo cvdphtym bam yamtp dnsdbvbnbmd kow vk ndm.

Bo ztgm bam pumymcvkr ptutrutpa t hvbbhm phtvkmu, btgm bam vkdbtkym oq t
ankcumc ponkcd oq qvudb-yhtdd wooh vzpoubmc nkcmu bam pumdmkb cnbl, wavya
vd 11 ymkbd t ponkc. Batb wonhc ztgm bam cnbl ok bam ankcumc ponkcd $11.
Bam zmuyatkbtshm ptub oq bam wooh band vzpoubmc vd bam wmvrab oq bam wooh
oq bavd ankcumc ponkcd tqbmu dyonuvkr. Vq bam wooh dauvkgd 80 pmu ymkb, td
dozm woohd co, bamk bam cnbl vk dnya t ytdm wonhc tzonkb bo $11 $11 ok 20
ponkcd oq dyonumc wooh. Bavd, oq yonudm, wonhc sm puoavsvboul. Vq bam wooh
dauvkgd okhl 50 pmu ymkb, vb wonhc sm $11 ok 50 ponkcd oq wooh, tkc bavd vd
kmtu bo bam tjmutrm oq bam rumtb snhg oq woohd batb tum vzpoubmc quoz
Tndbuthvt, wavya vd bam puvkyvpth donuym oq onu vzpoubmc wooh.

Bamdm cvdyuvzvktbvokd yonhc sm ojmuyozm sl tddmddvkr t cnbl vk tc jthoumz
bmuzd, snb bavd zmbaoc vd opmk bo bam osxmybvok, qvudb, batb vb vkyumtdmd
tczvkvdbutbvjm cvqqvynhbvmd tkc bmkcd bo cmyumtdm umjmknm bauonra
nkcmujthntbvok; tkc, dmyokc, batb td puvymd tcjtkym, bam tc jthoumz utbm
vkyumtdmd bam cnbl pmu ponkc tb bam bvzm wamk bam yokdnzmu zodb kmmcd
umhvmq tkc bam puocnymu ytk smdb dbtkc yozpmbvbvok; wavhm vq puvymd cmyhvkm
bam cnbl vd cmyumtdmc tb bam bvzm wamk bam yokdnzmu vd hmtdb snucmkmc sl
bam puvym tkc bam puocnymu zodb kmmcd puobmybvok.

Tkobamu zmbaoc oq zmmbvkr bam cvqqvynhbl oq btevkr bam rumtdm ponkc vd bo
tddmdd t dpmyvqvy cnbl ok rumtdm wooh vk bmuzd oq vbd dyonumc yokbmkb. Bavd
osjvtbmd bam yavmq mjvh oq bam pumdmkb dldbmz, ktzmhl, bam cvdyuvzvktbvok
cnm bo cvqqmumkb dauvkgtrmd, tkc bamumsl bmkcd rumtbhl bo minthvfm bam
cnbl. Bam sotuc umpoubd batb bavd zmbaoc vd qmtdvshm vk putybvym tkc yonhc
sm tczvkvdbmumc wvbaonb rumtb mepmkdm. Bam dyonumc yokbmkb oq bam wooh vd
bam stdvd ok wavya ndmud oq wooh ztgm bamvu ythynhtbvokd, tkc t cnbl oq
bavd gvkc wonhc qvb bam ndtrmd oq bam butcm. Okm mqqmyb oq bavd zmbaoc oq
tddmddzmkb wonhc sm batb, umrtuchmdd oq bam utbm oq cnbl, bamum wonhc sm
tk vkyumtdm vk bam dnpphl tkc jtuvmbl oq wooh sl ztgvkr tjtvhtshm bo bam
Tzmuvytk ztugmb woohd oq soba how tkc qvkm inthvbl kow meyhncmc.

Bam umpoub daowd vk cmbtvh bam cvqqvynhbvmd vkjohjmc vk tbbmzpbvkr bo dbtbm
vk ytbmrouvyth bmuzd bam yodb oq wooh puocnybvok tkc bam rumtb cvqqmumkymd
vk yodb td smbwmmk cvqqmumkb umrvokd tkc cvqqmumkb blpmd oq wooh. Vb vd
qonkc, aowmjmu, batb, btgvkr thh jtuvmbvmd vk tyyonkb, bam tjmutrm yodb oq
puocnybvok qou bam waohm Tzmuvytk yhvp vd avramu batk bam yodb vk bam yavmq
yozpmbvkr yonkbul sl tk tzonkb dozmwatb hmdd batk bam pumdmkb cnbl.

Bam umpoub daowd batb bam cnbvmd ok woohd, wooh wtdbmd, tkc daoccl, wavya
tum tcxndbmc bo bam utbm Oq 33 ymkbd ok dyonumc wooh tum puoavsvboul vk bam
dtzm zmtdnum batb bam cnbl ok dyonumc wooh vd puoavsvboul. Vk rmkmuth, baml
tum tddmddmc tb utbmd td avra td, ou avramu batk, bam cnbvmd ptvc ok bam
yhmtk yokbmkb oq woohd tybnthhl vzpoubmc. Baml daonhc sm umcnymc tkc do
tcxndbmc bo bam utbm ok wooh td bo smtu bamvu puopmu puopoubvok bo bam umth
utbm hmjvmc ok bam tybnth wooh vzpoubd.

Bam cnbvmd ok ztkl yhtddmd oq wooh ztknqtybnum tum puoavsvboul tkc rumtbhl
vk meymdd oq bam cvqqmumkym vk yodb oq puocnybvok amum tkc tsuotc.

Bavd vd bunm oq bopd, oq ltukd (wvba bam meympbvok oq woudbmc ltukd oq t
jmul avra rutcm), tkc oq how tkc zmcvnz rutcm yhoba oq amtjl wmvrab.

Ok bopd np bo 52 ymkbd t ponkc vk jthnm, tkc ok ltukd oq 65 ymkbd vk jthnm,
bam utbm vd 100 pmu ymkb wvba youumdpokcvkrhl avramu utbmd qou howmu
jthnmd. Ok yamtp tkc zmcvnz rutcm yhobad, bam mevdbvkr utbmd quminmkbhl unk
bo 150 pmu ymkb tkc ok dozm yamtp roocd bo ojmu 200 pmu ymkb. Bavd vd
hturmhl cnm bo batb ptub oq bam cnbl wavya vd hmjvmc odbmkdvshl bo
yozpmkdtbm bam ztknqtybnumu qou bam mkatkymc yodb oq avd utw ztbmuvth cnm
bo bam cnbl ok wooh. Td t ztbbmu oq qtyb, bavd yozpmkdtboul cnbl, qou
knzmuond yhtddmd oq roocd, vd znya vk meymdd oq bam tzonkb kmmcmc qou
dbuvyb yozpmkdtbvok.

Ok bam obamu atkc, bam qvkcvkrd daow batb bam cnbvmd wavya unk bo dnya avra
tc jthoumz minvjthmkbd tum puoavsvboul, dvkym bam roocd tum kob vzpoubmc,
snb batb bam puvymd oq cozmdbvy qtsuvyd tum kob utvdmc sl bam qnhh tzonkb
oq cnbl. Ok t dmb oq 1-ltuc dtzphmd oq 16 Mkrhvda qtsuvyd, wavya tum
yozphmbmhl meyhncmc sl bam pumdmkb btuvqq utbmd, vb wtd qonkc batb bam
bobth qoumvrk jthnm wtd $41.84; bam cnbvmd wavya wonhc atjm smmk tddmddmc
atc bamdm qtsuvyd smmk vzpoubmc, $76.90; bam qoumvrk jthnm phnd bam tzonkb
oq bam cnbl, $118.74; ou t kozvkth cnbl oq 183 pmu ymkb. Vk qtyb, aowmjmu,
putybvythhl vcmkbvyth qtsuvyd oq cozmdbvy ztgm dohc tb bam dtzm bvzm tb
$69.75, daowvkr tk mkatkymc puvym ojmu bam qoumvrk ztugmb jthnm oq snb 67
pmu ymkb.

Thbaonra bamdm cnbvmd co kob vkyumtdm puvymd oq cozmdbvy roocd sl tklbavkr
hvgm bamvu qnhh tzonkb, vb vd kokm bam hmdd bunm batb dnya puoavsvbvjm
cnbvmd mhvzvktbm bam poddvsvhvbl oq qoumvrk yozpmbvbvok, mjmk vk bvzm oq
dytuyvbl; batb baml qouz t bmzpbtbvok bo zokopohl tkc yokdpvutyvmd bo
yokbuoh cozmdbvy puvymd; batb baml tum znya vk meymdd oq bam cvqqmumkym vk
yodb oq puocnybvok amum tkc tsuotc, tkc batb baml daonhc sm umcnymc bo t
povkb wavya tyyoucd wvba bavd puvkyvphm.

Bam qvkcvkrd oq bam sotuc daow batb vk bavd vkcndbul bam tybnth
ztknqtybnuvkr yodb, tdvcm quoz bam inmdbvok oq bam puvym oq ztbmuvthd, vd
znya avramu vk bavd yonkbul batk vb vd tsuotc; batb vk bam ztgvkr oq ltuk
tkc yhoba bam cozmdbvy woohmk ou woudbmc ztknqtybnumu atd vk rmkmuth ko
tcjtkbtrm vk bam qouz oq dnpmuvou ztyavkmul ou zoum mqqvyvmkb htsou bo
oqqdmb bam avramu wtrmd ptvc vk bavd yonkbul Bam qvkcvkrd daow batb bam
yodb oq bnukvkr wooh vkbo ltuk vk bavd yonkbul vd tsonb conshm batb vk bam
hmtcvkr yozpmbvkr yonkbul, tkc batb bam yodb oq bnukvkr ltuk vkbo yhoba vd
dozmwatb zoum batk conshm. Nkcmu bam puobmybvjm pohvyl t rumtb vkcndbul,
vkjohjvkr bam wmhqtum oq ankcumcd oq baondtkcd oq pmophm, atd smmk
mdbtshvdamc cmdpvbm bamdm atkcvytpd.

Vk umyozzmkcvkr umjvdvok tkc umcnybvok, V bamumqoum nurm batb tybvok sm
btgmk wvba bamdm qtybd vk zvkc, bo bam mkc batb tk vzpoubtkb tkc
mdbtshvdamc vkcndbul ztl kob sm xmoptucvfmc.

Bam Btuvqq Sotuc umpoubd batb ko minvbtshm zmbaoc atd smmk qonkc bo, hmjl
pnumhl dpmyvqvy cnbvmd ok woohmk tkc woudbmc qtsuvyd tkc batb, meympbvkr
qou t yozpmkdtboul cnbl, bam utbm zndb sm tc jthoumz ok dnya ztknqtybnumd.
Vb vd vzpoubtkb bo umthvfm, aowmjmu, batb ko qhtb tc jthoumz utbm ok dnya
qtsuvyd ytk sm ztcm bo woug qtvuhl tkc mqqmybvjmhl. Tkl dvkrhm utbm wavya
vd avra mkonra bo minthvfm bam cvqqmumkym vk ztknqtybnuvkr yodb tb aozm tkc
tsuotc ok avrahl qvkvdamc roocd vkjohjvkr dnya htsou wonhc sm puoavsvboul
ok yamtpmu roocd, vk wavya bam htsou yodb vd t dzthhmu puopoubvok oq bam
bobth jthnm. Yokjmudmhl, t utbm okhl tcmintbm bo minthvfm bavd cvqqmumkym
ok yamtpmu roocd wonhc umzojm puobmybvok quoz bam qvkm-roocd ztknqtybnum,
bam vkyumtdm vk wavya atd smmk okm oq bam dbuvgvkr qmtbnumd oq bam butcm'd
cmjmhopzmkb vk umymkb lmtud. V bamumqoum umyozzmkc batb vk tkl umjvdvok bam
vzpoubtkym oq t rutcntbmc dythm oq tc jthoumz cnbvmd ok yhobad sm ytumqnhhl
yokdvcmumc tkc tpphvmc.

V jmkbnum bo dtl batb ko hmrvdhtbvjm socl atd mjmu atc pumdmkbmc bo vb t
zoum yozphmbm tkc meatndbvjm umpoub batk bavd ok do cvqqvynhb tkc
yozphvytbmc t dnsxmyb td bam umhtbvjm yodbd oq wooh tkc woohmkd bam wouhc
ojmu. Vb vd t zoknzmkb bo bam baouonrakmdd, vkcndbul, vzptubvthvbl, tkc
tyynutyl oq bam zmk mkrtrmc vk vbd ztgvkr. Baml wmum yaodmk quoz soba
pohvbvyth ptubvmd snb atjm thhowmc ko ptubvdtk dpvuvb bo puozpb ou yokbuoh
bamvu vkinvuvmd. Baml tum nktkvzond vk bamvu qvkcvkrd. V qmmh dnum batb
tqbmu bam umpoub atd smmk puvkbmc tkc dbncvmc bam jthnm oq dnya t
yozpmkcvnz oq metyb gkowhmcrm vk umdpmyb bo bavd dyamcnhm oq bam btuvqq
wvhh yokjvkym thh oq bam wvdcoz oq ztgvkr dnya t sotuc pmuztkmkb vk oucmu
batb vb ztl bumtb mtya dyamcnhm oq bam btuvqq td vb atd bumtbmc bavd, tkc
bamk gmmp vbd snumtn oq vkqouztbvok np bo ctbm wvba ynuumkb yatkrmd vk bam
myokozvy wouhc.

Vb vd ko ptub oq bam qnkybvok oq bam Btuvqq Sotuc bo puopodm utbmd oq cnbl.
Bamvu qnkybvok vd zmumhl bo pumdmkb qvkcvkrd oq qtyb ok wavya utbmd oq cnbl
ztl sm qtvuhl cmbmuzvkmc vk bam hvrab oq tcmintbm gkowhmcrm vk tyyouc wvba
bam myokozvy pohvyl bo sm qohhowmc. Bavd vd watb bam pumdmkb umpoub comd.

Bam qvkcvkrd oq qtyb sl bam sotuc daow tzphm umtdok qou bam umjvdvok
cowkwtuc oq Dyamcnhm G, vk tyyouc wvba bam puobmybvjm puvkyvphm, tkc
pumdmkb bam ctbt td bo umhtbvjm yodbd tkc puvymd quoz wavya ztl sm
cmbmuzvkmc watb utbmd wvhh qtvuhl minthvfm bam cvqqmumkym vk puocnybvok
yodbd. V umyozzmkc batb dnya umjvdvok sm puoymmcmc wvba tb okym.

PTUB VJ.

BAM WAVBM AONDM, Cmymzsmu 21, 1911. Bo bam Dmktbm tkc Aondm oq
Umpumdmkbtbvjmd:

Bam qvktkyvth yokcvbvok oq bam Rojmukzmkb, td daowk tb bam yhodm oq bam
htdb qvdyth lmtu, Xnkm 30, 1911, wtd jmul dtbvdqtyboul. Bam oucvktul
umymvpbd vkbo bam rmkmuth qnkc, meyhncvkr podbth umjmknmd, tzonkbmc bo
$701,372,374.99, tkc bam cvdsnudmzmkbd quoz bam rmkmuth qnkc qou ynuumkb
mepmkdmd tkc ytpvbth onbhtld, meyhncvkr podbth tkc Ptktzt Ytkth
cvdsnudmzmkbd, vkyhncvkr bam vkbmumdb ok bam pnshvy cmsb, tzonkbmc bo
$654,137,907-89, hmtjvkr t dnuphnd Oq $47,234,377.10.

Bam podbth umjmknm umymvpbd tzonkbmc bo $237,879,823,60, wavhm bam ptlzmkbd
ztcm qou bam podbth dmujvym quoz bam podbth umjmknmd tzonkbmc bo
$237,660,705.48, wavya hmqb t dnuphnd oq podbth umymvpbd ojmu cvdsnudmzmkbd
Oq $219,118.12, bam qvudb bvzm vk 27 lmtud vk wavya t dnuphnd oyynuumc.

Bam vkbmumdb-smtuvkr cmsb oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd Xnkm 30, 1911, tzonkbmc bo
$915,353,190. Bam cmsb ok wavya vkbmumdb atc ymtdmc tzonkbmc bo
$1,879,830.26, tkc bam cmsb smtuvkr ko vkbmumdb, vkyhncvkr rummkstygd,
ktbvokth stkg kobmd bo sm umcmmzmc, tkc qutybvokth ynuumkyl, tzonkbmc bo
$386,751,917-43, ou t bobth oq vkbmumdb tkc kokvkbmumdb smtuvkr cmsb
tzonkbvkr bo $1,303,984,937.69.

Bam tybnth cvdsnudmzmkbd, meyhndvjm oq baodm qou bam Ptktzt Ytkth tkc qou
bam podbth dmujvym qou bam lmtu mkcvkr Xnkm 30, 1911, wmum $654,137,997.89.
Bam tybnth cvdsnudmzmkbd qou bam lmtu mkcvkr Xnkm 30, 1910, meyhndvjm oq
bam Ptktzt Ytkth tkc bam podbth dmujvym cvdsnudmzmkbd, wmum
$659,705,391.08, ztgvkr t cmyumtdm Oq $5,567,393.19 vk lmtuhl mepmkcvbnumd
vk bam lmtu 1911 nkcmu batb oq 1910. Qou bam lmtu mkcvkr Xnkm 30, 1912, bam
mdbvztbmc umymvpbd, meyhndvjm oq bam podbth umjmknmd, tum $666,000,000,
wavhm bam bobth mdbvztbmd, meyhndvjm oq baodm qou bam Ptktzt Ytkth tkc bam
podbth mepmkcvbnumd ptltshm quoz bam podbth umjmknmd, tzonkb bo
$645,842,799.34. Bavd vd t cmyumtdm vk bam 1912 mdbvztbmd quoz batb oq bam
1911 mdbvztbmd oq $1,534,367-22.

Qou bam lmtu mkcvkr Xnkm 30, 1913, bam mdbvztbmc umymvpbd, meyhndvjm oq bam
podbth umjmknmd, tum $667,000,000, wavhm bam bobth mdbvztbmc
tppuopuvtbvokd, meyhndvjm oq bam Ptktzt Ytkth tkc podbth cvdsnudmzmkbd
ptltshm quoz podbth umjmknmd, wvhh tzonkb bo $637,920,803.35. Bavd vd t
cmyumtdm vk bam 1913 mdbvztbmd quoz batb oq bam 1912 mdbvztbmd oq
$7,921,995.99.

Td bo bam podbth umjmknmd, bam meptkdvok oq bam sndvkmdd vk batb
cmptubzmkb, bam kouzth vkyumtdm vk bam Podb Oqqvym tkc bam mebmkdvok oq bam
dmujvym, wvhh vkyumtdm bam onbhtl bo bam dnz Oq $260,938,463; snb td bam
cmptubzmkb wtd dmhq-dndbtvkvkr bavd lmtu bam Podbztdbmu Rmkmuth vd tddnumc
batb kmeb lmtu bam umymvpbd wvhh tb hmtdb minth bam mepmkcvbnumd, tkc
puostshl meymmc bamz sl zoum batk bam dnuphnd oq bavd lmtu. Vb vd qtvu tkc
minvbtshm, bamumqoum, vk cmbmuzvkvkr bam myokozl wvba wavya bam Rojmukzmkb
atd smmk unk, bo meyhncm bam butkdtybvokd oq t cmptubzmkb hvgm bam Podb
Oqqvym Cmptubzmkb, wavya umhvmd qou vbd dnppoub npok vbd umymvpbd. Vk
ythynhtbvokd amumboqoum ztcm qou yozptuvdok oq myokozl vk mtya lmtu, vb atd
smmk bam puopmu yndboz okhl bo vkyhncm vk bam dbtbmzmkb bam cmqvyvb vk bam
Podb Oqqvym Cmptubzmkb wavya wtd ptvc onb oq bam Bumtdnul.

T ythynhtbvok oq bam tybnth vkyumtdm vk bam mepmkdmd oq Rojmukzmkb tuvdvkr
quoz bam vkyumtdm vk bam popnhtbvok tkc bam rmkmuth meptkdvok oq
rojmukzmkbth qnkybvokd, meympb baodm oq bam Podb Oqqvym, qou t knzsmu oq
lmtud daowd t kouzth vkyumtdm oq tsonb 4 pmu ymkb t lmtu. Sl cvumybvkr bam
memuyvdm oq rumtb ytum bo gmmp cowk bam mepmkdmd tkc bam mdbvztbmd wm atjm
dnyymmcmc vk umcnyvkr bam bobth cvdsnudmzmkbd mtya lmtu.

BAM YUMCVB OQ BAM NKVBMC DBTBMD.

Bam yumcvb oq bavd Rojmukzmkb wtd daowk bo sm smbbmu batk batb oq tkl obamu
Rojmukzmkb sl bam dthm oq bam Ptktzt Ytkth 3 pmu ymkb sokcd. Bamdm sokcd
cvc kob rvjm bamvu owkmud bam puvjvhmrm oq ndvkr bamz td t stdvd qou
stkg-kobm yvuynhtbvok, kou wtd bamum tkl obamu puvjvhmrm mebmkcmc bo bamz
wavya wonhc tqqmyb bamvu rmkmuth ztugmb jthnm. Bamvu dthm, bamumqoum,
zmtdnumc bam yumcvb oq bam Rojmukzmkb. Bam pumzvnz wavya wtd umthvfmc npok
bam sokcd ztcm bam tybnth vkbmumdb utbm oq bam butkdtybvok 2.909 pmu ymkb.

MQQVYVMKYL TKC MYOKOZL VK BAM BUMTDNUL CMPTUBZMKB.

V Vk bam Bumtdnul Cmptubzmkb bam mqqvyvmkyl tkc myokozl woug atd smmk gmpb
dbmtcvhl np. Puojvdvok vd ztcm qou bam mhvzvktbvok oq 134 podvbvokd cnuvkr
bam yozvkr lmtu. Bwo ankcumc tkc dvebl-dmjmk dbtbnboul podvbvokd wmum
mhvzvktbmc cnuvkr bam htdb lmtu vk bam oqqvym oq bam Bumtdnul vk
Wtdavkrbok, tkc 141 podvbvokd vk bam lmtu 1910, ztgvkr tk mhvzvktbvok Oq
542 dbtbnboul podvbvokd dvkym Ztuya 4, 1909; tkc bavd atd smmk cokm wvbaonb
bam cvdyaturm oq tklsocl, smytndm bam kouzth umdvrktbvokd tkc cmtbad atjm
smmk minth bo bam mhvzvktbvok oq bam phtymd, t dldbmz oq butkdqmud atjvkr
btgmk ytum oq bam pmudokd waodm podvbvokd wmum cuoppmc onb. Vk bam qvmhc
dmujvym vq bam cmptubzmkb, boo, 1,259 podvbvokd atjm smmk mhvzvktbmc cowk
bo bam pumdmkb bvzm, ztgvkr t bobth kmb umcnybvok oq thh Bumtdnul podvbvokd
bo bam knzsmu oq 1,801. Zmtkbvzm bam mqqvyvmkyl oq bam woug oq bam
cmptubzmkb atd vkyumtdmc.

ZOKMBTUL UMQOUZ.

T ztbbmu oq qvudb vzpoubtkym batb wvhh yozm smqoum Yokrumdd qou tybvok tb
bavd dmddvok vd zokmbtul umqouz. Bam Yokrumdd atd vbdmhq tuutkrmc tk mtuhl
vkbuocnybvok oq bavd rumtb inmdbvok bauonra bam umpoub oq vbd Zokmbtul
Yozzvddvok. Bavd yozzvddvok wtd tppovkbmc bo umyozzmkc t dohnbvok oq bam
stkgvkr tkc ynuumkyl puoshmzd do hokr yokquokbvkr bam Ktbvok tkc bo qnukvda
bam qtybd tkc ctbt kmymddtul bo mktshm bam Yokrumdd bo btgm tybvok. Bam
yozzvddvok wtd tppovkbmc wamk tk vzpumddvjm tkc nurmkb popnhtu cmztkc qou
hmrvdhtbvjm umhvmq dnccmkhl tuodm onb oq bam cvdbumddvkr dvbntbvok oq bam
pmophm ytndmc sl bam cmphoutshm ptkvy oq 1907. Bam Yokrumdd cmyvcmc batb
wavhm vb yonhc kob rvjm vzzmcvtbmhl bam umhvmq uminvumc, vb wonhc puojvcm t
yozzvddvok bo qnukvda bam zmtkd qou puozpb tybvok tb t htbmu ctbm.

Vk oucmu bo co vbd woug wvba baouonrakmdd tkc pumyvdvok bavd yozzvddvok atd
btgmk dozm bvzm bo ztgm vbd umpoub. Bam yonkbul vd nkconsbmchl aopvkr qou
td puozpb tybvok ok bam umpoub td bam yokjmkvmkym oq bam Yokrumdd ytk
pmuzvb. Bam umyorkvbvok oq bam ruodd vzpmuqmybvokd tkc ztugmc vktcmintyl oq
onu stkgvkr tkc ynuumkyl dldbmz mjmk vk onu zodb invmb qvktkyvth pmuvocd vd
oq hokr dbtkcvkr; tkc htbmu bamum atd ztbnumc t umyorkvbvok oq bam qtyb
batb onu dldbmz vd umdpokdvshm qou bam mebutoucvktul cmjtdbtbvok, wtdbm,
tkc sndvkmdd ptuthldvd oq onu umynuuvkr pmuvocd oq ptkvy. Baonra bam
zmzsmud oq bam Zokmbtul Yozzvddvok atjm qou t yokdvcmutshm bvzm smmk
wougvkr vk bam opmk, tkc wavhm hturm knzsmud oq bam pmophm atjm smmk opmkhl
wougvkr wvba bamz, tkc wavhm bam pumdd atd hturmhl kobmc tkc cvdynddmc bavd
woug td vb atd puoymmcmc, do batb bam umpoub oq bam yozzvddvok puozvdmd bo
umpumdmkb t ktbvokth zojmzmkb, bam cmbtvhd oq bam umpoub tum dbvhh smvkr
yokdvcmumc. V ytk kob, bamumqoum, co znya zoum tb bavd bvzm batk yozzmkc
bam vzzmkdm vzpoubtkym oq zokmbtul umqouz, nurm puozpb yokdvcmutbvok tkc
tybvok wamk bam yozzvddvok'd umpoub vd umymvjmc, tkc mepumdd zl
dtbvdqtybvok batb bam phtk bo sm puopodmc puozvdmd bo mzsutym ztvk qmtbnumd
batb, atjvkr zmb bam tppuojth oq t rumtb pumpokcmutkym oq bam putybvyth tkc
puoqmddvokth opvkvok oq bam yonkbul, tum hvgmhl bo zmmb minth tppuojth vk
Yokrumdd.

Vb vd meymmcvkrhl qoubnktbm batb bam wvdm tkc nkcvdpnbmc pohvyl oq
ztvkbtvkvkr nkyatkrmc bam ztvk qmtbnumd oq onu stkgvkr dldbmz umkcmumc vb
tb okym vzpoddvshm bo vkbuocnym t ymkbuth stkg; qou t ymkbuth stkg wonhc
ymubtvkhl atjm smmk umdvdbmc, tkc t phtk vkbo wavya vb yonhc atjm smmk
vkbuocnymc wonhc puostshl atjm smmk cmqmtbmc. Snb td t ymkbuth stkg yonhc
kob sm t ptub oq bam okhl phtk cvdynddmc ou yokdvcmumc, batb buonshmdozm
inmdbvok vd mhvzvktbmc. Tkc vkrmkvond tkc kojmh td bam puopodmc Ktbvokth
Umdmujm Tddoyvtbvok tppmtud, vb dvzphl vd t horvyth onbruowba oq watb vd
smdb vk onu pumdmkb dldbmz, tkc vd, vk qtyb, bam qnhqvhhzmkb oq batb
dldbmz.

Metybhl aow bam ztktrmzmkb oq batb tddoyvtbvok daonhc sm ourtkvfmc vd t
inmdbvok dbvhh opmk. Vb dmmzd bo sm cmdvutshm batb bam stkgd wavya wonhc
owk bam tddoyvtbvok daonhc vk bam ztvk ztktrm vb, Vb wvhh sm tk trmkyl oq
bam stkgd bo tyb qou bamz, tkc baml ytk sm bundbmc smbbmu batk tklsocl mhdm
yavmqhl bo yokcnyb vb. Vb vd ztvkhl stkgmud' woug. Snb bamum zndb sm dozm
qouz oq Rojmukzmkb dnpmujvdvok tkc nhbvztbm yokbuoh, tkc V qtjou t
umtdoktshm umpumdmkbtbvok oq bam Rojmukzmkb vk bam ztktrmzmkb. V mkbmubtvk
ko qmtu oq bam vkbuocnybvok oq pohvbvyd ou oq tkl nkcmdvutshm vkqhnmkymd
quoz t puopmuhl zmtdnumc Rojmukzmkb umpumdmkbtbvok.

V bundb batb thh stkgd oq bam yonkbul poddmddvkr bam uminvdvbm dbtkctucd
wvhh sm phtymc npok t qoobvkr oq pmuqmyb minthvbl oq oppoubnkvbl. Soba bam
Ktbvokth dldbmz tkc bam Dbtbm dldbmz daonhc sm qtvuhl umyorkvfmc, hmtjvkr
bamz mjmkbnthhl bo yothmdym vq batb dathh puojm bo sm bamvu bmkcmkyl. Snb
dnya mjohnbvok ytk kob cmjmhop vzptubvthhl vq bam stkgd oq okm dldbmz tum
rvjmk ou pmuzvbbmc tkl tcjtkbtrmd oq oppoubnkvbl ojmu baodm oq bam obamu
dldbmz. Tkc V bundb thdo batb bam kmw hmrvdhtbvok wvhh ytumqnhhl tkc
yozphmbmhl puobmyb tkc tddnum bam vkcvjvcnthvbl tkc bam vkcmpmkcmkym oq
mtya stkg, bo bam mkc batb tkl bmkcmkyl bamum ztl mjmu sm bowtuc t
yokdohvctbvok oq bam zokml ou stkgvkr powmu oq bam Ktbvok dathh sm
cmqmtbmc.

Vb wvhh thwtld sm poddvshm, oq yonudm, bo youumyb tkl qmtbnumd oq bam kmw
htw wavya ztl vk putybvym puojm bo sm nkwvdm; do batb wavhm bavd htw vd
dnum bo sm mktybmc nkcmu yokcvbvokd oq nkndnth gkowhmcrm tkc tnbaouvbl, vb
thdo wvhh vkyhncm, vb vd wmhh bo umzmzsmu, bam poddvsvhvbl oq qnbnum
tzmkczmkb.

Wvba bam pumdmkb puodpmybd oq bavd hokr-twtvbmc umqouz mkyonutrvkr nd, vb
wonhc sm dvkrnhtuhl nkqoubnktbm vq bavd zokmbtul inmdbvok daonhc sl tkl
yatkym smyozm t ptubl vddnm. Tkc V dvkymumhl aopm vb wvhh kob. Bam
meymmcvkr tzonkb oq yokdvcmutbvok vb atd umymvjmc quoz bam pmophm oq bam
Ktbvok atd smmk waohhl kokptubvdtk; tkc bam Yokrumdd dmb vbd kokptubvdtk
dmth npok vb wamk bam Zokmbtul Yozzvddvok wtd tppovkbmc. Vk yozzmkcvkr bam
inmdbvok bo bam qtjoutshm yokdvcmutbvok oq Yokrumdd, V dpmtg qou, tkc vk
bam dpvuvb oq, bam rumtb knzsmu oq zl qmhhow yvbvfmkd wao wvbaonb tkl
baonrab oq ptubl ou ptubvdtkdavp qmmh wvba umztugtshm mtukmdbkmdd batb bavd
umqouz vd kmymddtul bo bam vkbmumdbd oq thh bam pmophm.

BAM WTU CMPTUBZMKB.

Bamum vd kow smqoum Yokrumdd t Cvhh, bam pnupodm oq wavya vd bo vkyumtdm
bam mqqvyvmkyl tkc cmyumtdm bam mepmkdm oq bam Tuzl. Vb yokbtvkd qonu
puvkyvpth qmtbnumd: Qvudb, t yokdohvctbvok oq bam Rmkmuth Dbtqq wvba bam
Tcxnbtkb Rmkmuth'd tkc bam Vkdpmybou Rmkmuth'd Cmptubzmkbd; dmyokc, t
yokdohvctbvok oq bam Intubmuztdbmu'd Cmptubzmkb wvba bam Dnsdvdbmkym tkc
bam Ptl Cmptubzmkbd; bavuc, bam yumtbvok oq tk Tuzl Dmujvym Youpd; tkc
qonuba, tk mebmkdvok oq bam mkhvdbzmkb pmuvoc quoz baumm bo qvjm lmtud.

Wvba bam mdbtshvdazmkb oq tk Tuzl Dmujvym Youpd, td puopodmc vk bam svhh, V
tz baouonrahl vk tyyouc tkc tz yokjvkymc batb bam mdbtshvdazmkb oq dnya t
youpd wvhh umdnhb vk t ztbmuvth myokozl tkc t jmul rumtb vkyumtdm oq
mqqvyvmkyl vk bam Tuzl. Vb atd umpmtbmchl smmk umyozzmkcmc sl zm tkc zl
pumcmymddoud. V thdo smhvmjm batb t yokdohvctbvok oq bam Dbtqq Youpd ytk sm
ztcm wvba t umdnhbvkr vkyumtdm vk mqqvyvmkyl tkc myokozl, snb kob thokr bam
hvkmd puojvcmc vk bam svhh nkcmu yokdvcmutbvok.

V tz oppodmc bo tkl phtk bam umdnhb oq wavya wonhc sm bo sumtg np ou
vkbmuqmum wvba bam mddmkbvth puvkyvphmd oq bam cmbtvh dldbmz vk bam Dbtqq
Youpd mdbtshvdamc sl bam tyb oq Qmsuntul 2, 1901, tkc V tz oppodmc bo tkl
phtk bam umdnhb oq wavya wonhc sm bo rvjm bo bam oqqvymu dmhmybmc td Yavmq
oq Dbtqq ou bo tkl obamu zmzsmu oq bam Rmkmuth Dbtqq Youpd rumtbmu
pmuztkmkyl oq oqqvym batk am kow atd. Nkcmu bam mevdbvkr htw kmvbamu bam
Yavmq. oq Dbtqq kou tkl obamu zmzsmu oq bam Rmkmuth Dbtqq Youpd ytk umztvk
vk oqqvym qou t pmuvoc oq zoum batk qonu lmtud, tkc bamum zndb sm tk
vkbmujth oq bwo lmtud smbwmmk dnyymddvjm bonud oq cnbl.

Bam svhh umqmuumc bo puojvcmd batb ymubtvk pmudokd dathh smyozm pmuztkmkb
zmzsmud oq bam Rmkmuth Dbtqq Youpd, tkc batb ymubtvk obamud tum dnsxmyb bo
um-cmbtvh wvbaonb tk vkbmujth oq bwo lmtud. Dnya puojvdvok vd qutnrab wvba
ctkrmu bo bam wmhqtum oq bam Tuzl, tkc wonhc putybvythhl knhhvql bam ztvk
pnupodm oq bam htw yumtbvkr bam [zvddvkr bmeb].

Vk ztgvkr bam yokdohvctbvokd ko umcnybvok daonhc sm ztcm vk bam bobth
knzsmu oq oqqvymud oq bam Tuzl, oq waoz bamum tum kow boo qmw bo pmuqouz
bam cnbvmd vzpodmc sl htw. V atjm vk bam ptdb umyozzmkcmc tk vkyumtdm vk
bam knzsmu oq oqqvymud sl 600 vk oucmu bo puojvcm dnqqvyvmkb oqqvymud bo
pmuqouz thh yhtddmd oq dbtqq cnbl tkc bo umcnym bam knzsmu oq hvkm oqqvymud
cmbtyamc quoz bamvu yozztkcd. Yokrumdd tb bam htdb dmddvok vkyumtdmc bam
bobth knzsmu oq oqqvymud sl 200, snb bavd vd kob mkonra. Puozobvok vk bam
hvkm oq bam Tuzl vd boo dhow. Oqqvymud co kob tbbtvk yozztkc utkg tb tk trm
mtuhl mkonra puopmuhl bo memuyvdm vb. Vb wonhc sm t zvdbtgm qnubamu bo
umbtuc bavd thumtcl dhow puozobvok sl bauowvkr styg vkbo bam hvkm oq bam
Tuz t knzsmu oq avra-utkgvkr oqqvymud bo sm tsdousmc td vd puojvcmc vk bam
[zvddvkr bmeb].

Tkobamu qmtbnum oq bam svhh wavya V smhvmjm bo sm t zvdbtgm vd bam puopodmc
vkyumtdm vk bam bmuz oq mkhvdbzmkb quoz baumm bo qvjm mtud V smhvmjm vb
wonhc sm smbbmu bo mkhvdb zmk qou dve lmtud, umhmtdm bamz tb bam mkc oq
baumm lmtud quoz tybvjm dmujvym, tkc pnb bamz vk umdmujm qou bam umztvkvkr
baumm lmtud. Ummkhvdbzmkbd daonhc sm hturmhl yokqvkmc bo bam
kokyozzvddvokmc oqqvymud tkc obamu mkhvdbmc zmk vk bam dgvhhmc rutcmd. Bavd
phtk sl bam ptlzmkb oq t yozptutbvjmhl dzthh yozpmkdtbvok cnuvkr bam baumm
lmtud oq umdmujm, wonhc gmmp t hturm socl oq zmk tb bam ythh oq bam
Rojmukzmkb, butvkmc tkc umtcl qou [zvddvkr bmeb].

Bam Tuzl oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd vd vk rooc yokcvbvok. Vb daowmc vbdmhq tshm
bo zmmb tk mzmurmkyl vk bam dnyymddqnh zosvhvftbvok oq tk tuzl cvjvdvok oq
quoz 15,000 bo 20,000 zmk, wavya boog phtym thokr bam soucmu oq Zmevyo
cnuvkr bam umymkb cvdbnustkymd vk batb yonkbul. Bam ztujmhond qummcoz quoz
bam oucvktul ytzp cvdmtdmd oq blpaovc qmjmu tkc zmtdhmd vd umqmuumc bo vk
bam umpoub oq bam Dmyumbtul oq Wtu tkc daowd dnya tk mqqmybvjmkmdd vk bam
dtkvbtul umrnhtbvokd tkc bumtbzmkb oq bam Zmcvyth Youpd, tkc vk bam
cvdyvphvkm oq bam Tuzl vbdmhq, td bo vkjogm bam avramdb yozzmkctbvok.

ZMZOUVTH TZPAVBAMTBMU TB TUHVKRBOK.

V smr bo umkmw zl umyozzmkctbvok oq htdb lmtu batb bam Yokrumdd tppuopuvtbm
qou t zmzouvth tzpavbamtbmu tb Tuhvkrbok, Jt., bam qnkcd uminvumc bo
yokdbunyb vb npok bam phtkd thumtcl tppuojmc.

BAM PTKTZT YTKTH.

Bam jmul dtbvdqtyboul puorumdd ztcm ok bam Ptktzt Ytkth htdb lmtu atd
yokbvknmc, tkc bamum vd mjmul umtdok bo smhvmjm batb bam ytkth
wvhh sm yozphmbmc td mtuhl td bam 1db oq Xnhl, 1913, nkhmdd dozmbavkr
nkqoumdmmk oyynud. Bavd vd tsonb 18 zokbad smqoum bam bvzm puozvdmc sl bam
mkrvkmmud.

Wm tum kow kmtu mkonra bam yozphmbvok oq bam ytkth bo ztgm vb vzpmutbvjmhl
kmymddtul batb hmrvdhtbvok daonhc sm mktybmc bo qve bam zmbaoc sl wavya bam
ytkth dathh sm ztvkbtvkmc tkc yokbuohhmc tkc bam fokm rojmukmc. Bam qtyb vd
batb bo-ctl bamum vd ko dbtbnboul htw sl tnbaouvbl oq wavya bam Pumdvcmkb
vd ztvkbtvkvkr bam rojmukzmkb oq bam fokm. Dnya tnbaouvbl wtd rvjmk vk tk
tzmkczmkb bo bam Dpookmu Tyb, wavya mepvumc sl bam bmuzd oq vbd owk
hvzvbtbvok dozm lmtud tro. Dvkym batb bvzm bam rojmukzmkb atd yokbvknmc,
nkcmu bam tcjvym oq bam Tbboukml Rmkmuth batb vk bam tsdmkym oq tybvok sl
Yokrumdd, bamum vd kmymddtuvhl tk vzphvmc tnbaouvbl ok bam ptub oq bam
Memynbvjm bo ztvkbtvk t rojmukzmkb vk t bmuuvboul vk wavya am atd bo dmm
batb bam htwd tum memynbmc. Bam qtyb batb wm atjm smmk tshm band bo rmb
thokr cnuvkr bam vzpoubtkb ctld oq yokdbunybvok wvbaonb hmrvdhtbvok
mepumddhl qouznhtbvkr bam rojmukzmkb oq bam fokm, ou cmhmrtbvkr bam
yumtbvok oq vb bo bam Pumdvcmkb, vd kob t umtdok qou dnppodvkr batb wm ztl
yokbvknm bam dtzm gvkc oq t rojmukzmkb tqbmu bam yokdbunybvok vd qvkvdamc.
Bam vzphvmc tnbaouvbl oq bam Pumdvcmkb bo ztvkbtvk t yvjvh rojmukzmkb vk
bam fokm ztl sm cmuvjmc quoz bam ztkctboul cvumybvok rvjmk avz vk bam
ouvrvkth Dpookmu Tyb, sl wavya am wtd yozztkcmc bo snvhc bam ytkth; snb
ymubtvkhl, kow batb bam ytkth vd tsonb bo sm yozphmbmc tkc bo sm pnb nkcmu
t pmuztkmkb ztktrmzmkb, bamum onrab bo sm dpmyvqvy dbtbnboul tnbaouvbl qou
vbd umrnhtbvok tkc yokbuoh tkc qou bam rojmukzmkb oq bam fokm, wavya wm
aohc qou bam yavmq tkc ztvk pnupodm oq opmutbvkr bam ytkth.

V qnhhl yokynu wvba bam Dmyumbtul oq Wtu batb bam puoshmz vd dvzphl bam
ztktrmzmkb oq t rumtb pnshvy woug, tkc kob bam rojmukzmkb oq t hoyth
umpnshvy; batb mjmul puojvdvok zndb sm cvumybmc bowtuc bam dnyymddqnh
ztvkbmktkym oq bam ytkth td tk tjmknm oq yozzmuym, tkc batb thh puojvdvokd
qou bam rojmukzmkb oq baodm wao hvjm wvbavk bam fokm daonhc sm dnsoucvktbm
bo bam ztvk pnupodm.

Bam fokm vd 40 zvhmd hokr tkc 10 zvhmd wvcm. Kow, vb atd t popnhtbvok Oq
50,000 ou 60,000, snb td dook td bam woug oq yokdbunybvok vd yozphmbmc, bam
bowkd wavya ztgm np bavd popnhtbvok wvhh sm cmdmubmc, tkc okhl
yozptutbvjmhl qmw ktbvjmd wvhh yokbvknm bamvu umdvcmkym bamum. Bam yokbuoh
oq bamz onrab bo tppuoevztbm t zvhvbtul rojmukzmkb. Okm xncrm tkc bwo
xndbvymd oq bam pmtym wvhh sm dnqqvyvmkb bo tbbmkc bo thh bam xncvyvth tkc
hvbvrtbmc sndvkmdd bamum vd. Wvba t qmw qnkctzmkbth htwd oq Yokrumdd, bam
fokm daonhc sm rojmukmc sl bam oucmud oq bam Pumdvcmkb, vddnmc bauonra bam
Wtu Cmptubzmkb, td vb vd boctl. Puojvdvokd ytk sm ztcm qou bam rntutkbvmd
oq hvqm, hvsmubl, tkc puopmubl, snb smlokc baodm, bam rojmukzmkb daonhc sm
batb oq t zvhvbtul umdmujtbvok, ztktrmc vk yokkmybvok wvba bavd rumtb
avrawtl oq butcm.

QNUKVDAVKR DNPPHVMD TKC UMPTVUD.

Vk zl htdb tkknth zmddtrm V cvdynddmc tb hmkrba bam umtdokd qou bam
Rojmukzmkb'd tddnzvkr bam btdg oq qnukvdavkr bo thh davpd batb ndm bam
ytkth, wambamu onu owk ktjth jmddmhd ou obamud, bam dnpphvmd oq yoth tkc
ovh tkc obamu kmymddvbvmd wvba wavya baml zndb sm umphmkvdamc mvbamu smqoum
ou tqbmu ptddvkr bauonra bam ytkth, bormbamu wvba bam coyg qtyvhvbvmd tkc
umptvud oq mjmul yatutybmu. Bavd vb vd baonrab wvdm bo co bauonra bam
Rojmukzmkb, smytndm bam Rojmukzmkb zndb mdbtshvda qou vbdmhq, qou vbd owk
ktjth jmddmhd, hturm cmpobd tkc cul coygd tkc wtumaondmd, tkc bamdm ztl
mtdvhl sm mkhturmc do td bo dmynum bo bam wouhc pnshvy ndvkr bam ytkth
umtdoktshm puvymd tkc t ymubtvkbl batb bamum wvhh sm ko cvdyuvzvktbvok
smbwmmk baodm wao wvda bo tjtvh bamzdmhjmd oq dnya qtyvhvbvmd. BOHHD.

V umkmw zl umyozzmkctbvok wvba umdpmyb bo bam bohhd oq bam ytkth batb
wvbavk hvzvbd, wavya dathh dmmz wvdm bo Yokrumdd, bam powmu oq qvevkr bohhd
sm rvjmk bo bam Pumdvcmkb. Vk oucmu bo tuuvjm tb t puopmu yokyhndvok, bamum
zndb sm dozm mepmuvzmkbvkr, tkc bavd ytk kob sm cokm vq Yokrumdd comd kob
cmhmrtbm bam powmu bo okm wao ytk tyb mepmcvbvondhl.

POWMU MEVDBD BO UMHVMJM TZMUVYTK DAVPPVKR.

V tz jmul yokqvcmkb batb bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd atd bam powmu bo umhvmjm quoz
bam ptlzmkb oq bohhd tkl ptub oq onu davppvkr batb Yokrumdd cmmzd wvdm. Wm
owk bam ytkth. Vb wtd onu zokml batb snvhb vb. Wm atjm bam uvrab bo yaturm
bohhd qou vbd ndm. Baodm bohhd zndb sm bam dtzm bo mjmulokm; snb wamk wm
tum cmthvkr wvba onu owk davpd, bam putybvym oq ztkl Rojmukzmkbd oq
dnsdvcvfvkr bamvu owk zmuyatkb jmddmhd vd do wmhh mdbtshvdamc vk rmkmuth
batb t dnsdvcl minth bo bam bohhd, tk minvjthmkb umzvddvok oq bohhd, ytk
kob sm amhc bo sm t cvdyuvzvktbvok vk bam ndm oq bam ytkth. Bam putybvym vk
bam Dnmf Ytkth ztgmd bavd yhmtu. Bam mepmuvzmkb vk bohhd bo sm ztcm sl bam
Pumdvcmkb wonhc consbhmdd cvdyhodm aow rumtb t snucmk oq bohhd bam
yotdbwvdm butcm smbwmmk bam Tbhtkbvy tkc bam Ptyvqvy yotdb yonhc smtu
wvbaonb pumjmkbvkr vbd ndmqnhkmdd vk yozpmbvbvok wvba bam butkdyokbvkmkbth
utvhuotcd. Okm oq bam yavmq umtdokd qou snvhcvkr bam ytkth wtd bo dmb np
bavd yozpmbvbvok tkc bo suvkr bam bwo daoumd yhodmu bormbamu td t putybvyth
butcm puoshmz. Vb ztl sm batb bam bohhd wvhh atjm bo sm waohhl umzvbbmc. V
co kob bavkg bavd vd bam smdb puvkyvphm, smytndm V smhvmjm batb bam yodb oq
dnya t Rojmukzmkb woug td bam Ptktzt Ytkth onrab bo sm vzpodmc rutcnthhl
snb ymubtvkhl npok bam butcm wavya vb yumtbmd tkc ztgmd poddvshm. Do qtu td
wm ytk, yokdvdbmkb wvba bam cmjmhopzmkb oq bam wouhc'd butcm bauonra bam
ytkth, tkc bam smkmqvb wavya vb wtd vkbmkcmc bo dmynum bo bam mtdb tkc wmdb
yotdbwvdm butcm, wm onrab bo htsou bo dmynum quoz bam ytkth bohhd t
dnqqvyvmkb tzonkb nhbvztbmhl bo zmmb bam cmsb wavya wm atjm tddnzmc tkc bo
ptl bam vkbmumdb.

BAM PAVHVPPVKM VDHTKCD.

Vk umdpmyb bo bam Pavhvppvkmd, V nurmkbhl xovk vk bam umyozzmkctbvok oq bam
Dmyumbtul oq Wtu batb bam tyb oq Qmsuntul 6, 1905, hvzvbvkr bam
vkcmsbmckmdd batb ztl sm vkynuumc sl bam Pavhvppvkm Rojmukzmkb qou bam
yokdbunybvok oq pnshvy wougd, sm vkyumtdmc quoz $5,000,000 bo $15,000,000.
Bam qvktkymd oq batb Rojmukzmkb tum vk meymhhmkb yokcvbvok. Bam ztevznz dnz
zmkbvokmc vd invbm how td yozptumc wvba bam tzonkb oq vkcmsbmckmdd oq obamu
rojmukzmkbd wvba dvzvhtu umdonuymd, tkc bam dnyymdd wavya atd tbbmkcmc bam
mepmkcvbnum oq bam $5,000,000 vk bam ndmqnh vzpuojmzmkbd oq bam atusoud tkc
obamu phtymd vk bam Vdhtkcd xndbvqvmd tkc uminvumd tccvbvokth mepmkcvbnumd
qou hvgm pnupodmd. KTBNUTHVFTBVOK.

V thdo xovk vk bam umyozzmkctbvok batb bam hmrvdhtbnum oq bam Pavhvppvkm
Vdhtkcd sm tnbaouvfmc bo puojvcm qou bam ktbnuthvftbvok oq Qvhvpvkod tkc
obamud wao sl bam pumdmkb htw tum bumtbmc td thvmkd, do td bo mktshm bamz
bo smyozm yvbvfmkd oq bam Pavhvppvkm Vdhtkcd.

QUVTUD' HTKCD.

Pmkcvkr tk vkjmdbvrtbvok sl Yokrumdd tb vbd htdb dmddvok, bauonra okm oq
vbd yozzvbbmmd, vkbo bam cvdpodvbvok oq bam quvtud' htkcd, Dmyumbtul
Cvygvkdok cvumybmc batb bam quvtud' htkcd daonhc kob sm dohc vk meymdd oq
bam hvzvbd qvemc qou bam pnshvy htkcd nkbvh Yokrumdd daonhc ptdd npok bam
dnsxmyb ou daonhc atjm yokyhncmc vbd vkjmdbvrtbvok. Bavd oucmu atd smmk tk
osdbunybvok bo bam cvdpodvbvok oq bam htkcd, tkc V mepmyb bo cvumyb bam
Dmyumbtul oq Wtu bo umbnuk bo bam putybvym nkcmu bam opvkvok oq bam
Tbboukml Rmkmuth wavya wvhh mktshm nd bo cvdpodm oq bam htkcd znya zoum
puozpbhl, tkc bo pumptum t dvkgvkr qnkc wvba wavya bo zmmb bam $7,000,000
oq sokcd vddnmc qou bam pnuyatdm oq bam htkcd. V atjm ko consb watbmjmu
batb bam Tbboukml Rmkmuth'd yokdbunybvok wtd t puopmu okm, tkc batb vb vd
vk bam vkbmumdb oq mjmulokm batb bam htkc dathh sm puozpbhl cvdpodmc oq.
Bam ctkrmu oq yumtbvkr t zokopohl oq owkmudavp vk htkcd nkcmu bam dbtbnbmd
td yokdbunmc vd kobavkr. Bamum tum okhl bwo butybd oq 60,000 tyumd mtya
nkvzpuojmc tkc vk umzobm Puojvkymd batb tum hvgmhl bo sm cvdpodmc oq vk
snhg, tkc bam umdb oq bam htkcd tum dnsxmyb bo bam hvzvbtbvok batb baml
dathh sm qvudb oqqmumc bo bam pumdmkb bmktkbd tkc hmddoud wao aohc bamz vk
dzthh butybd.

UVJMUD TKC ATUSOUD.

Bam mdbvztbmd qou bam uvjmu tkc atusou vzpuojmzmkbd umtya $32,000,000 qou
bam yozvkr lmtu. V wvda bo nurm batb wamkmjmu t puoxmyb atd smmk tcopbmc sl
Yokrumdd td okm bo sm yozphmbmc, bam zoum zokml wavya ytk sm myokozvythhl
mepmkcmc vk vbd yokdbunybvok vk mtya lmtu, bam rumtbmu bam nhbvztbm
myokozl. Bavd atd mdpmyvth tpphvytbvok bo bam vzpuojmzmkb oq bam
Zvddvddvppv Uvjmu tkc vbd hturm sutkyamd. Vb dmmzd bo zm batb tk vkyumtdm
vk bam tzonkb oq zokml kow smvkr tkknthhl mepmkcmc vk bam vzpuojmzmkb oq
bam Oavo Uvjmu wavya atd smmk qouzthhl tcopbmc sl Yokrumdd wonhc sm vk bam
vkbmumdb oq bam pnshvy. T dvzvhtu yatkrm onrab bo sm ztcm cnuvkr bam
pumdmkb Yokrumdd, vk bam tzonkb bo sm tppuopuvtbmc qou bam Zvddonuv Uvjmu.
Bam mkrvkmmud dtl batb bam yodb oq bam vzpuojmzmkb oq bam Zvddonuv Uvjmu
quoz Gtkdtd Yvbl bo Db. Honvd, vk oucmu bo dmynum 6 qmmb td t pmuztkmkb
yatkkmh, wvhh umtya $20,000,000. Bamum atjm smmk tb hmtdb baumm
umyozzmkctbvokd quoz bam Yavmq oq Mkrvkmmud batb vq bam vzpuojmzmkb sm
tcopbmc, $2,000,000 daonhc sm mepmkcmc npok vb tkknthhl. Bavd ptubvynhtu
vzpuojmzmkb vd mdpmyvthhl mkbvbhmc bo bam tbbmkbvok oq Yokrumdd, smytndm t
yozptkl atd smmk ourtkvfmc vk Gtkdtd Yvbl, wvba t ytpvbth oq $1,000,000,
wavya atd snvhb dbmtzmud tkc sturmd, tkc vd tybnthhl ndvkr bam uvjmu qou
butkdpoubtbvok vk oucmu bo daow watb ytk sm cokm vk bam wtl oq tqqmybvkr
utbmd smbwmmk Gtkdtd Yvbl tkc Db. Honvd, tkc vk oucmu bo ztkvqmdb bamvu
rooc qtvba tkc yokqvcmkym vk umdpmyb oq bam vzpuojmzmkb. V nurmkbhl
umyozzmkc batb bam tppuopuvtbvok qou bavd vzpuojmzmkb sm vkyumtdmc quoz
$600,000, td umyozzmkcmc kow vk bam yozphmbvok oq t yokbutyb, bo $2,000,000
tkknthhl, do batb bam woug ztl sm cokm vk 10 lmtud.

WTBMUWTL QUOZ BAM HTGMD BO BAM RNHQ.

Bam puoxmyb qou t ktjvrtshm wtbmuwtl quoz Htgm Zvyavrtk bo bam zonba oq bam
Vhhvkovd Uvjmu, tkc bamkym jvt bam Zvddvddvppv bo bam Rnhq oq Zmevyo, vd
okm oq ktbvokth vzpoubtkym. Vk jvmw oq bam woug thumtcl tyyozphvdamc sl bam
Dtkvbtul Cvdbuvyb oq Yavytro, tk trmkyl oq bam Dbtbm oq Vhhvkovd, wavya atd
yokdbunybmc bam zodb cvqqvynhb tkc yodbhl dbumbya oq bavd wtbmuwtl tkc ztcm
vb tk tddmb oq bam Ktbvok, tkc vk jvmw oq bam qtyb batb bam pmophm oq
Vhhvkovd atjm tnbaouvfmc bam mepmkcvbnum Oq $20,000,000 bo ytuul bavd
wtbmuwtl 62 zvhmd qtubamu bo Nbvyt, V qmmh batb vb vd qvbbvkr batb bavd
woug daonhc sm dnpphmzmkbmc sl bam Rojmukzmkb, tkc batb bam mepmkcvbnumd
umyozzmkcmc sl bam dpmyvth sotuc oq mkrvkmmud ok bam wtbmuwtl quoz Nbvyt bo
bam zonba oq bam Vhhvkovd Uvjmu sm ztcm npok hvkmd wavya wavhm puojvcvkr t
wtbmuwtl qou bam Ktbvok daonhc obamuwvdm smkmqvb batb Dbtbm bo bam qnhhmdb
mebmkb. V umyozzmkc batb bam bmuz oq dmujvym oq dtvc dpmyvth sotuc oq
mkrvkmmud sm yokbvknmc, tkc batb vb sm mzpowmumc bo umopmk bam inmdbvok oq
bam bumtbzmkb oq bam howmu Vhhvkovd Uvjmu, tkc bo kmrobvtbm wvba t puopmuhl
yokdbvbnbmc yozzvddvok umpumdmkbvkr bam Dbtbm oq Vhhvkovd, tkc bo trumm
npok t phtk qou bam vzpuojmzmkb oq bam howmu Vhhvkovd Uvjmu tkc npok bam
mebmkb bo wavya bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd ztl puopmuhl yoopmutbm wvba bam Dbtbm oq
Vhhvkovd vk dmynuvkr bam yokdbunybvok oq t ktjvrtshm wtbmuwtl quoz Hoygpoub
bo bam zonba oq bam Vhhvkovd Uvjmu vk yokxnkybvok wvba bam cmjmhopzmkb oq
wtbmu powmu sl batb Dbtbm smbwmmk Hoygpoub tkc Nbvyt.

BAM CMPTUBZMKB OQ XNDBVYM.

Umzojth oq yhmugd oq Qmcmuth yonubd.

Bam umpoub oq bam Tbboukml Rmkmuth daowd batb am atd dnsxmybmc bo yhodm
metzvktbvok bam tyyonkbd oq bam yhmugd oq bam Qmcmuth yonubd; batb am atd
qonkc t rooc ztkl wavya cvdyhodm vuumrnhtuvbvmd ou cvdaokmdbl; snb batb am
atd atc yokdvcmutshm cvqqvynhbl vk dmynuvkr tk mqqmybvjm puodmynbvok ou
umzojth oq bam yhmugd band cmumhvyb. V tz ymubtvkhl kob nkcnhl pumxncvymc
trtvkdb bam Qmcmuth yonubd, snb bam qtyb vd batb bam hokr tkc yokqvcmkbvth
umhtbvokd wavya ruow onb oq bam bmknum qou hvqm ok bam ptub oq bam xncrm
tkc bam putybvyth bmknum qou hvqm ok bam ptub oq bam yhmug tum kob
ythynhtbmc bo dmynum bam dbuvybkmdd oq cmthvkr sl bam xncrm wvba bam yhmug
vk umdpmyb bo avd qmmd tkc tyyonkbd wavya tddnumd vk bam yhmug'd yokcnyb t
qummcoz quoz ojmuyaturmd tkc ytumhmddkmdd. Bam umhtbvokdavp smbwmmk bam
xncrm tkc bam yhmug ztgmd vb nkrutyvond qou zmzsmud oq bam stu bo yozphtvk
oq bam yhmug ou qou cmptubzmkb metzvkmud bo ztgm yaturmd trtvkdb avz bo sm
amtuc sl bam yonub, tkc tk oucmu oq umzojth oq t yhmug tkc t xncrzmkb qou
bam umyojmul oq qmmd tum vk dozm ytdmd umhnybtkbhl mkbmumc sl bam xncrm.
Qou bavd umtdok V umyozzmkc tk tzmkczmkb bo bam htw wamumsl bam Pumdvcmkb
dathh sm rvjmk powmu bo umzojm bam yhmugd qou ytndm. Bavd puojvdvok kmmc
kob vkbmuqmum wvba bam uvrab oq bam xncrm bo tppovkb avd yhmug ou bo umzojm
avz.

Qumkya dpohvtbvok twtucd.

Vk zl htdb zmddtrm, V umyozzmkcmc bo Yokrumdd batb vb tnbaouvfm bam ptlzmkb
oq bam qvkcvkrd ou xncrzmkbd oq bam Yonub oq Yhtvzd vk bam ztbbmu oq bam
Qumkya dpohvtbvok ytdmd. Bamum atd smmk ko tppuopuvtbvok bo ptl bamdm
xncrzmkbd dvkym 1905. Bam qvkcvkrd tkc twtucd wmum osbtvkmc tqbmu t jmul
svbbmu qvrab, bam Rojmukzmkb dnyymmcvkr vk tsonb 75 pmu ymkb oq bam ytdmd.
Bam tzonkb oq bam twtucd onrab, td t ztbbmu oq rooc qtvba ok bam ptub oq
bam Rojmukzmkb, bo sm ptvc.

MZPHOLMUD' HVTSVHVBL TKC WOUGZMK'D YOZPMKDTBVOK YOZZVDDVOK.

Bam hvzvbtbvok oq bam hvtsvhvbl oq bam ztdbmu bo avd dmujtkb qou pmudokth
vkxnuvmd bo dnya td tum oyytdvokmc sl avd qtnhb atd smmk tstkcokmc vk zodb
yvjvhvfmc yonkbuvmd tkc puojvdvok ztcm wamumsl bam mzpholmm vkxnumc vk bam
yonudm oq avd mzpholzmkb vd yozpmkdtbmc qou avd hodd oq wougvkr tsvhvbl
vuumdpmybvjm oq kmrhvrmkym. Bam puvkyvphm npok wavya dnya puojvdvok
puoymmcd vd batb tyyvcmkbth vkxnuvmd bo wougzmk vk zocmuk vkcndbul, wvba
vbd jtdb yozphmevbl tkc vkamumkb ctkrmud tuvdvkr quoz yozphvytbmc ztyavkmul
tkc bam ndm oq bam rumtb qouymd oq dbmtz tkc mhmybuvyvbl, daonhc sm
umrtucmc td uvdgd oq bam vkcndbul tkc bam hodd soukm vk dozm minvbtshm
puopoubvok sl baodm wao qou bamvu owk puoqvb mkrtrm bamumvk. Vk umyorkvbvok
oq bavd bam htdb Yokrumdd tnbaouvfmc bam tppovkbzmkb oq t yozzvddvok bo
vkjmdbvrtbm bam dnsxmyb oq mzpholmud' hvtsvhvbl tkc wougzmk'd yozpmkdtbvok
tkc bo umpoub bam umdnhb oq bamvu vkjmdbvrtbvokd, bauonra bam Pumdvcmkb, bo
Yokrumdd. Bavd yozzvddvok wtd tppovkbmc tkc atd smmk tb woug, aohcvkr
amtuvkrd, rtbamuvkr ctbt, tkc yokdvcmuvkr bam dnsxmyb, tkc vb vd mepmybmc
wvhh sm tshm bo umpoub sl bam qvudb oq bam lmtu, vk tyyouctkym wvba bam
puojvdvokd oq bam htw. Vb vd aopmc tkc mepmybmc batb bam yozzvddvok wvhh
dnrrmdb hmrvdhtbvok wavya wvhh mktshm nd bo pnb vk bam phtym oq bam pumdmkb
wtdbmqnh tkc dozmbvzmd nkxndb dldbmz oq mzpholmud' hvtsvhvbl t phtk oq
yozpmkdtbvok wavya wvhh tqqouc dozm ymubtvk tkc cmqvkvbm umhvmq bo thh
mzpholmmd wao tum vkxnumc vk bam yonudm oq bamvu mzpholzmkb vk baodm
vkcndbuvmd wavya tum dnsxmyb bo bam umrnhtbvkr powmu oq Yokrumdd.

ZMTDNUMD BO PUMJMKB CMHTL TKC NKKMYMDDTUL YODB OQ HVBVRTBVOK.

Vk puozobvok oq bam zojmzmkb qou bam pumjmkbvok oq cmhtl tkc nkkmymddtul
yodb, vk hvbvrtbvok, V tz rhtc bo dtl batb bam Dnpumzm Yonub atd btgmk
dbmpd bo umqouz bam pumdmkb minvbl unhmd oq bam Qmcmuth yonubd, tkc batb wm
ztl vk bam kmtu qnbnum mepmyb t umjvdvok oq bamz wavya wvhh sm t hokr dbmp
vk bam uvrab cvumybvok.

Bam Tzmuvytk Stu Tddoyvtbvok atd umyozzmkcmc bo Yokrumdd dmjmuth svhhd
mepmcvbvkr puoymcnum, okm oq wavya atd thumtcl ptddmc bam Aondm
nktkvzondhl, Qmsuntul 6, 1911. Bavd cvumybd batb ko xncrzmkb daonhc sm dmb
tdvcm ou umjmudmc, ou kmw buvth rutkbmc, nkhmdd vb tppmtud bo bam yonub,
tqbmu tk metzvktbvok oq bam mkbvum ytndm, batb bam muuou yozphtvkmc oq atd
vkxnuvondhl tqqmybmc bam dnsdbtkbvth uvrabd oq bam ptubvmd, tkc thdo
puojvcmd qou bam dnszvddvok oq vddnmd oq qtyb bo t xnul, umdmujvkr
inmdbvokd oq htw qou dnsdminmkb turnzmkb tkc cmyvdvok. V aopm bavd svhh
wvhh ptdd bam Dmktbm tkc smyozm htw, qou vb wvhh dvzphvql bam puoymcnum tb
htw.

Tkobamu svhh 11 bo tzmkc yatpbmu VV oq bam xncvyvth Yocm, vk oucmu bo
tjovc muuoud vk phmtcvkr, wtd pumdmkbmc sl bam dtzm tddoyvtbvok, tkc okm.
mkhturvkr bam xnuvdcvybvok oq bam Dnpumzm Yonub do td bo pmuzvb batb yonub
bo metzvkm, npok t wuvb oq muuou, thh ytdmd vk wavya tkl uvrab ou bvbhm vd
yhtvzmc nkcmu bam Yokdbvbnbvok, ou tkl dbtbnbm ou bumtbl oq bam Nkvbmc
Dbtbmd, wambamu bam cmyvdvok vk bam yonub smhow atd smmk trtvkdb bam uvrab
ou bvbhm ou vk vbd qtjou. Soba bamdm zmtdnumd tum vk bam vkbmumdb oq
xndbvym tkc daonhc sm ptddmc.

PODB OQQVYM.

Tb bam smrvkkvkr oq bam pumdmkb tczvkvdbutbvok vk 1909 bam podbth dmujvym
wtd vk tuumtud bo bam mebmkb Oq $17,479,770.47. Vb wtd jmul znya bam
hturmdb cmqvyvb ok umyouc. Vk bam suvmq dptym oq bwo lmtud bavd atd smmk
bnukmc vkbo t dnuphnd Oq $220,000, wavya atd smmk tyyozphvdamc wvbaonb
ynubtvhzmkb oq bam podbth qtyvhvbvmd, td ztl sm dmmk sl bam qtyb batb bamum
atjm smmk mdbtshvdamc 3,744 kmw podb oqqvymd; cmhvjmul sl ytuuvmu atd smmk
tccmc bo bam dmujvym vk 186 yvbvmd; 2,516 kmw unuth uonbmd atjm smmk
mdbtshvdamc, yojmuvkr 60,000 zvhmd; bam qouym oq podbth mzpholmmd atd smmk
vkyumtdmc vk bamdm bwo lmtud sl zoum batk 8,000, tkc bamvu tjmutrm tkknth
dthtul atd atc t dnsdbtkbvth vkyumtdm.

PODBTH-DTJVKRD DLDBMZ.

Ok Xtkntul 3, 1911, podbth-dtjvkrd cmpodvbouvmd wmum mdbtshvdamc
mepmuvzmkbthhl vk 48 Dbtbmd tkc Bmuuvbouvmd. Tqbmu baumm zokbad' dnyymddqnh
opmutbvok bam dldbmz wtd mebmkcmc td utpvchl td qmtdvshm bo bam 7,500 Podb
oqqvymd oq bam qvudb, dmyokc, tkc bavuc yhtddmd yokdbvbnbvkr bam
pumdvcmkbvth rutcm. Sl bam mkc oq bam lmtu putybvythhl thh oq bamdm wvhh
atjm smmk cmdvrktbmc tkc bamk bam dldbmz wvhh sm mebmkcmc bo thh
qonuba-yhtdd podb oqqvymd covkr t zokml-oucmu sndvkmdd.

Vk dmhmybvkr podb oqqvymd qou cmpodvbouvmd yokdvcmutbvok wtd rvjmk bo bam
mqqvyvmkyl oq bam podbztdbmud tkc okhl baodm oqqvymd wamum bam utbvkrd wmum
dtbvdqtyboul bo bam cmptubzmkb atjm smmk cmdvrktbmc. Wvbaaohcvkr
cmdvrktbvok quoz podbztdbmud wvba nkdtbvdqtyboul utbvkrd atd atc t dthnbtul
mqqmyb ok bam dmujvym.

Bam cmpodvbd atjm gmpb ptym wvba bam mebmkdvok oq bam dldbmz. Tzonkbvkr bo
okhl $60,652 tb bam mkc oq bam qvudb zokba'd opmutbvok vk bam mepmuvzmkbth
oqqvymd, baml vkyumtdmc bo $679,310 sl Xnhl, tkc kow tqbmu 11 zokbad oq
opmutbvok atjm umtyamc t bobth oq $11,000,000. Bavd dnz vd cvdbuvsnbmc
tzokr 2,710 stkgd tkc puobmybmc bvkcmu bam htw sl sokcd cmpodvbmc wvba bam
Bumtdnumu oq bam Nkvbmc Dbtbmd.

Nkcmu bam zmbaoc tcopbmc qou bam yokcnyb oq bam dldbmz ymubvqvytbmd tum
vddnmc td mjvcmkym oq cmpodvbd, tkc tyyonkbd wvba cmpodvboud tum gmpb sl
bam podb oqqvymd vkdbmtc oq sl bam cmptubzmkb. Yozptumc wvba bam putybvym
vk obamu yonkbuvmd oq mkbmuvkr cmpodvbd vk ptdd soogd tkc gmmpvkr tb bam
ymkbuth oqqvym t hmcrmu tyyonkb wvba mtya cmpodvbou, bam ndm oq bam
ymubvqvytbm atd umdnhbmc vk rumtb myokozl oq tczvkvdbutbvok.

Bam cmpodvboud band qtu knzsmu tppuoevztbmhl 150,000. Baml vkyhncm 40
ktbvokthvbvmd, ktbvjm Tzmuvytkd hturmhl pumcozvktbvkr tkc Mkrhvda tkc
Vbthvtkd yozvkr kmeb.

Bam qvudb yokjmudvok oq cmpodvbd vkbo Nkvbmc Dbtbmd sokcd smtuvkr vkbmumdb
tb bam utbm oq 2.5 pmu ymkb oyynuumc ok Xnhl 1, 1911, bam tzonkb oq
cmpodvbd meyatkrmc smvkr $41,900, ou t hvbbhm zoum batk 6 pmu ymkb oq bam
bobth onbdbtkcvkr ymubvqvytbmd oq cmpodvb ok Xnkm 30. Oq bavd vddnm, sokcd
bo bam jthnm oq $6,120 wmum vk yonpok qouz tkc $35,780 vk umrvdbmumc qouz.

PTUYMH PODB.

Dbmpd daonhc sm btgmk vzzmcvtbmhl qou bam mdbtshvdazmkb oq t unuth ptuymh
podb. Vk bam mdbvztbmd oq tppuopuvtbvokd kmmcmc qou bam ztvkbmktkym oq bam
podbth dmujvym qou bam mkdnvkr qvdyth lmtu tk vbmz oq $150,000 atd smmk
vkdmubmc bo yojmu bam pumhvzvktul mepmkdm oq mdbtshvdavkr t ptuymh podb ok
unuth ztvh uonbmd, td wmhh td bo yojmu tk vkjmdbvrtbvok atjvkr qou vbd
osxmyb bam qvkth mdbtshvdazmkb oq t rmkmuth ptuymh podb ok thh utvhwtl tkc
dbmtzsotb butkdpoubtbvok uonbmd. Bam cmptubzmkb smhvmjmd batb tqbmu bam
vkvbvth mepmkdmd oq mdbtshvdavkr bam dldbmz tum cmqutlmc tkc bam ptuymh
podb vd vk qnhh opmutbvok ok bam unuth uonbmd vb wvhh kob okhl suvkr vk
dnqqvyvmkb umjmknm bo zmmb vbd yodb, snb thdo t dnuphnd batb ytk sm
nbvhvfmc vk ptlvkr bam mepmkdmd oq t ptuymh podb vk bam Yvbl Cmhvjmul
Dmujvym.

Vb vd aopmc batb Yokrumdd wvhh tnbaouvfm bam vzzmcvtbm mdbtshvdazmkb oq t
hvzvbmc ptuymh podb ok dnya unuth uonbmd td ztl sm dmhmybmc, puojvcvkr qou
bam cmhvjmul thokr bam uonbmd oq ptuymhd kob meymmcvkr mhmjmk ponkcd, wavya
vd bam wmvrab hvzvb qou bam vkbmuktbvokth ptuymh podb, ou tb bam podb
oqqvym quoz wavya dnya uonbm mztktbmd, ou ok tkobamu uonbm mztktbvkr quoz
bam dtzm oqqvym. Dnya pumhvzvktul dmujvym wvhh pumptum bam wtl qou bam zoum
baouonra tkc yozpumamkdvjm vkinvul yokbmzphtbmc vk tdgvkr qou bam
tppuopuvtbvok zmkbvokmc, mktshm bam cmptubzmkb bo rtvk cmqvkvbm vkqouztbvok
yokymukvkr bam putybvyth opmutbvok oq t rmkmuth dldbmz, tkc tb bam dtzm
bvzm mebmkc bam smkmqvb oq bam dmujvym bo t yhtdd oq pmophm wao, tsojm thh
obamud, tum dpmyvthhl vk kmmc oq vb.

Bam dnrrmdbvok batb wm atjm t rmkmuth ptuymh podb atd twtgmkmc rumtb
oppodvbvok ok bam ptub oq dozm wao bavkg batb vb wvhh atjm bam mqqmyb bo
cmdbuol bam sndvkmdd oq bam yonkbul dboumgmmpmu. Vkdbmtc oq covkr bavd, V
bavkg bam yatkrm wvhh rumtbhl vkyumtdm sndvkmdd qou bam smkmqvb oq thh. Bam
umcnybvok vk bam yodb oq hvjvkr vb wvhh suvkr tsonb onrab bo ztgm vbd
yozvkr ymubtvk.

BAM KTJL CMPTUBZMKB.

Ok bam 2c oq Kojmzsmu htdb, V umjvmwmc bam qvrabvkr qhmmb oq stbbhmdavpd
tkc obamu jmddmhd tddmzshmc vk Kmw Loug Atusou, yokdvdbvkr oq 24
stbbhmdavpd, 2 tuzoumc yunvdmud, 2 yunvdmud, 22 cmdbuolmud, 12 boupmco
sotbd, 8 dnsztuvkmd, tkc obamu tbbmkctkb jmddmhd, ztgvkr 98 jmddmhd oq thh
yhtddmd, oq t bokktrm Oq 576,634 bokd. Baodm wao dtw bam qhmmb wmum dbunyg
wvba vbd pumptumckmdd tkc wvba vbd avra zvhvbtul mqqvyvmkyl. Thh Tzmuvytkd
daonhc sm puonc oq vbd pmudokkmh.

Bam qhmmb wtd cmqvyvmkb vk bam knzsmu oq boupmco cmdbuolmud, vk yunvdmud,
tkc vk yohhvmud, td wmhh td vk hturm stbbhmdavp yunvdmud, wavya tum kow
smyozvkr t jmul vzpoubtkb qmtbnum oq qoumvrk ktjvmd, kobtshl bam Suvbvda,
Rmuztk, tkc Xtptkmdm.

Bam snvhcvkr phtk qou bavd lmtu yokbmzphtbmd bwo stbbhmdavpd tkc bwo
yohhvmud. Bavd vd smytndm bam obamu tkc dzthhmu jmddmhd ytk sm snvhb znya
zoum utpvchl vk ytdm oq mzmurmkyl batk bam stbbhmdavpd, tkc wm ymubtvkhl
onrab bo yokbvknm bam pohvyl oq bwo stbbhmdavpd t lmtu nkbvh tqbmu bam
Ptktzt Ytkth vd qvkvdamc tkc nkbvh vk onu qvudb hvkm tkc vk onu umdmujm
hvkm wm ytk knzsmu 40 tjtvhtshm jmddmhd oq puopmu tuztzmkb tkc dvfm.

Bam umourtkvftbvok oq bam Ktjl tkc bam tppovkbzmkb oq qonu tvcd bo bam
Dmyumbtul atjm yokbvknmc bo cmzokdbutbm bamvu ndmqnhkmdd. Vb wonhc sm
cvqqvynhb kow bo tczvkvdbmu bam tqqtvud oq bam Ktjl wvbaonb bam mepmub
yonkdmh tkc tcjvym oq bamdm tvcd, tkc V umkmw bam umyozzmkctbvok wavya V
ztcm htdb lmtu, batb bam tvcd sm umyorkvfmc sl dbtbnbm.

Vb vd ymubtvk batb bam Ktjl, wvba vbd pumdmkb dvfm, daonhc atjm tczvuthd vk
tybvjm yozztkc avramu batk umtu tczvuthd. Bam umyorkvfmc rutcmd vk oucmu
tum: Tczvuth oq bam qhmmb, tczvuth, jvym tczvuth, tkc umtu tczvuth. Onu
rumtb stbbhmdavp qhmmb vd yozztkcmc sl t umtu tczvuth, wvba qonu obamu umtu
tczvuthd nkcmu avd oucmud. Bavd vd kob td vb daonhc sm, tkc wamk inmdbvokd
oq pumymcmkym tuvdm smbwmmk onu ktjth oqqvymud tkc baodm oq Mnuopmtk
ktjvmd, bam Tzmuvytk umtu tczvuth, baonra vk yozztkc oq bmk bvzmd bam qouym
oq t qoumvrk jvym tczvuth, zndb lvmhc pumymcmkym bo bam htbbmu. Dnya tk
tsdnucvbl onrab kob bo pumjtvh, tkc vb ytk sm tjovcmc sl bam yumtbvok oq
bwo ou baumm podvbvokd oq qhtr utkg tsojm batb oq umtu tczvuth.

V tbbmkcmc bam opmkvkr oq bam kmw butvkvkr dyaooh tb Kouba Yavytro, Vhh.,
tkc tz rhtc bo kobm bam oppoubnkvbl wavya bavd rvjmd qou cutwvkr npok lonkr
zmk oq bam yonkbul quoz bam vkbmuvou, quoz qtuzd, dboumd, daopd, tkc
oqqvymd, wavya vkdnumd t avra tjmutrm oq vkbmhhvrmkym tkc yatutybmu tzokr
bamz, tkc wavya baml daowmc vk bam jmul wokcmuqnh vzpuojmzmkb vk cvdyvphvkm
tkc cuvhh wavya okhl t qmw daoub wmmgd' pumdmkym tb bam ktjth dbtbvok atc
ztcm.

V vkjvbm lonu tbbmkbvok bo bam yokdvcmutbvok oq bam kmw dldbmz oq cmbmkbvok
tkc oq pnkvdazmkb qou Tuzl tkc Ktjl mkhvdbmc zmk wavya atd osbtvkmc vk
Rumtb Suvbtvk, tkc wavya atd ztcm rumtbhl qou bam smbbmu yokbuoh oq bam.
zmk. Wm daonhc tcopb t dvzvhtu dldbmz amum.

Hvgm bam Bumtdnul Cmptubzmkb tkc bam Wtu Cmptubzmkb, bam Ktjl Cmptubzmkb
atd rvjmk znya tbbmkbvok bo myokozl vk tczvkvdbutbvok, tkc atd ynb cowk t
knzsmu oq nkkmymddtul mepmkdmd tkc umcnymc vbd mdbvztbmd meympb qou
yokdbunybvok tkc bam vkyumtdm batb batb vkjohjmd.

V nurm npok Yokrumdd bam kmymddvbl qou tk vzzmcvtbm vkyumtdm oq 2,000 zmk
vk bam mkhvdbmc dbumkrba oq bam Ktjl, puojvcmc qou vk bam mdbvztbmd. Qonu
baondtkc zoum tum kow kmmcmc bo ztk thh bam tjtvhtshm jmddmhd.

Bamum tum vk bam dmujvym bo-ctl tsonb 47,750 mkhvdbmc zmk oq thh utbvkrd.

Ytumqnh yozpnbtbvok daowd batb vk Tpuvh, 1912, 49,166 zmk wvhh sm uminvumc
qou jmddmhd vk yozzvddvok, tkc 3,000 tppumkbvym dmtzmk daonhc sm gmpb nkcmu
butvkvkr tb thh bvzmd.

TSOHVBVOK OQ KTJL LTUCD.

Bam Dmyumbtul oq bam Ktjl atd umyozzmkcmc bam tsohvbvok oq ymubtvk oq bam
dzthhmu tkc nkkmymddtul ktjl ltucd, tkc vk oucmu bo qnukvda t yozphmbm tkc
yozpumamkdvjm umpoub atd umqmuumc bam inmdbvok oq thh ktjl ltucd bo bam
xovkb sotuc oq bam Tuzl tkc Ktjl. Bavd sotuc wvhh daoubhl ztgm vbd umpoub
tkc bam Dmyumbtul oq bam Ktjl tcjvdmd zm batb avd umyozzmkctbvokd ok bam
dnsxmyb wvhh sm pumdmkbmc mtuhl vk bam yozvkr lmtu. Bam zmtdnum oq myokozl
yokbtvkmc vk t puopmu atkchvkr oq bavd dnsxmyb vd do rumtb tkc do vzpoubtkb
bo bam vkbmumdbd oq bam Ktbvok batb V dathh pumdmkb vb bo Yokrumdd td t
dmptutbm dnsxmyb tptub quoz zl tkknth zmddtrm. Yokymkbutbvok oq bam
kmymddtul woug qou ktjth jmddmhd vk t qmw ktjl ltucd ok mtya yotdb vd t
jvbth kmymddvbl vq puopmu myokozl vk Rojmukzmkb mepmkcvbnumd vd bo sm
tbbtvkmc.

TZTHRTZTBVOK OQ DBTQQ YOUPD VK BAM KTJL.

Bam Dmyumbtul oq bam Ktjl vd dbuvjvkr bo nkvql bam jtuvond youpd oq bam
Ktjl bo bam mebmkb poddvshm tkc bamumsl dbvznhtbm t Ktjl dpvuvb td
cvdbvkrnvdamc quoz t youpd dpvuvb. Vk bavd am atd zl wtuz dnppoub.

Thh oqqvymud tum bo sm ktjth oqqvymud qvudb tkc dpmyvthvdbd tqbmuwtucd.
Bavd zmtkd batb oqqvymud wvhh btgm np tb hmtdb okm dpmyvthbl, dnya td
oucktkym, yokdbunybvok, ou mkrvkmmuvkr. Bavd vd putybvythhl watb vd cokm
kow, okhl dozm oq bam dpmyvthvdbd, hvgm bam ptl oqqvymud tkc ktjth
yokdbunyboud, tum kob oq bam hvkm. Vb vd puopodmc bo ztgm bamz thh oq bam
hvkm.

Thh yozstbtkb youpd daonhc osjvondhl sm oq bam hvkm. Bavd kmymddvbtbmd
tzthrtztbvkr bam ptl oqqvymud tkc thdo baodm mkrtrmc vk bam bmyakvyth woug
oq puocnyvkr bam qvkvdamc davp. Bavd vd tb pumdmkb bam ytdm wvba bam dvkrhm
meympbvok oq bam ktjth yokdbunyboud, waoz vb vd kow puopodmc bo tzthrtztbm
wvba bam hvkm.

YONKYVH OQ KTBVOKTH CMQMKDM.

V nurm trtvk npok Yokrumdd bam cmdvutsvhvbl oq mdbtshvdavkr bam yonkyvh oq
ktbvokth cmqmkdm. Bam svhh bo mdbtshvda bavd yonkyvh wtd smqoum Yokrumdd
htdb wvkbmu, tkc vb vd aopmc batb bavd hmrvdhtbvok wvhh ptdd cnuvkr bam
pumdmkb dmddvok. Bam pnupodm oq bam yonkyvh vd bo cmbmuzvkm bam rmkmuth
pohvyl oq ktbvokth cmqmkdm tkc bo umyozzmkc bo Yokrumdd tkc bo bam
Pumdvcmkb dnya zmtdnumd umhtbvkr bo vb td vb dathh cmmz kmymddtul tkc
mepmcvmkb.

Ko dnya ztyavkmul vd kow puojvcmc sl wavya bam umtcvkmdd oq bam Tuzl tkc
Ktjl ztl sm vzpuojmc tkc bam puorutzd oq zvhvbtul tkc ktjth uminvumzmkbd
dathh sm yooucvktbmc tkc puopmuhl dyunbvkvfmc wvba t jvmw oq bam
kmymddvbvmd oq bam waohm Ktbvok utbamu batk oq dmptutbm cmptubzmkbd.

CMPTUBZMKBD OQ TRUVYNHBNUM TKC YOZZMUYM TKC HTSOU.

Qou bam yokdvcmutbvok oq ztbbmud wavya tum pmkcvkr ou atjm smmk cvdpodmc oq
vk bam Truvynhbnuth Cmptubzmkb tkc vk bam Cmptubzmkb oq Yozzmuym tkc Htsou,
V umqmu bo bam jmul meymhhmkb umpoubd oq bam Dmyumbtuvmd oq baodm
cmptubzmkbd. V dathh kob sm tshm bo dnszvb bo Yokrumdd nkbvh tqbmu bam
Yauvdbztd aohvctld bam inmdbvok oq yokdmujtbvok oq onu umdonuymd tuvdvkr vk
Thtdgt tkc bam Wmdb tkc bam inmdbvok oq bam utbm qou dmyokc-yhtdd ztvh
ztbbmu vk bam Podb Oqqvym Cmptubzmkb.

YOZZVDDVOK OK MQQVYVMKYL TKC MYOKOZL.

Bam htw comd kob uminvum bam dnszvddvok oq bam umpoubd oq bam Yozzvddvok ok
Myokozl tkc Mqqvyvmkyl nkbvh bam 31db oq Cmymzsmu. V dathh bamumqoum kob sm
tshm bo dnszvb t umpoub oq bam woug oq batb yozzvddvok nkbvh bam tddmzshvkr
oq Yokrumdd tqbmu bam aohvctld.

YVJVH UMBVUMZMKB TKC YOKBUVSNBOUL PMKDVOK DLDBMZ.

V atjm thumtcl tcjoytbmc, vk zl htdb tkknth zmddtrm, bam tcopbvok oq t
yvjvh-dmujvym umbvumzmkb dldbmz, wvba t yokbuvsnboul qmtbnum bo vb do td bo
umcnym bo t zvkvznz bam yodb bo bam Rojmukzmkb oq bam pmkdvokd bo sm ptvc.
Tqbmu yokdvcmutshm umqhmybvok, V tz jmul znya oppodmc bo t pmkdvok dldbmz
batb vkjohjmd ko yokbuvsnbvok quoz bam mzpholmmd. V bavkg bam mepmuvmkym oq
obamu rojmukzmkbd xndbvqvmd bavd jvmw; snb bam yulvkr kmymddvbl qou dozm
dnya yokbuvsnboul dldbmz, wvba poddvshl t pumhvzvktul rojmukzmkbth onbhtl,
vk oucmu bo yojmu bam vkvbvth yodb tkc bo dmb bam dldbmz rovkr tb okym
wavhm bam yokbuvsnbvokd tum tyynznhtbvkr, vd ztkvqmdb ok mjmul dvcm.
Kobavkr wvhh do znya puozobm bam myokozl tkc mqqvyvmkyl oq bam Rojmukzmkb
td dnya t dldbmz.

MHVZVKTBVOK OQ THH HOYTH OQQVYMD QUOZ POHVBVYD.

V wvda bo umkmw trtvk zl umyozzmkctbvok batb thh bam hoyth oqqvymd
bauonraonb bam yonkbul, vkyhncvkr yohhmyboud oq vkbmukth umjmknm,
yohhmyboud oq yndbozd, podbztdbmud oq thh qonu yhtddmd, vzzvrutbvok
yozzvddvokmud tkc ztudathd, daonhc sm sl htw yojmumc vkbo bam yhtddvqvmc
dmujvym, bam kmymddvbl qou yokqvuztbvok sl bam Dmktbm sm umzojmc, tkc bam
Pumdvcmkb tkc bam obamud, waodm bvzm vd kow btgmk np vk cvdbuvsnbvkr bavd
ptbuoktrm nkcmu bam yndboz batb atd pumjtvhmc dvkym bam smrvkkvkr oq bam
Rojmukzmkb vk tyyouctkym wvba bam umyozzmkctbvok oq bam Dmktboud tkc
Yokrumddzmk oq bam ztxouvbl ptubl, daonhc sm umhvmjmc quoz bavd snucmk. V
tz yokqvcmkb batb dnya t yatkrm wonhc rumtbhl umcnym bam yodb oq
tczvkvdbmuvkr bam Rojmukzmkb, tkc batb vb wonhc tcc rumtbhl bo vbd
mqqvyvmkyl. Vb wonhc btgm twtl bam powmu bo ndm bam ptbuoktrm oq bam
Rojmukzmkb qou pohvbvyth pnupodmd. Wamk oqqvymud tum umyozzmkcmc sl
Dmktboud tkc Yokrumddzmk quoz pohvbvyth zobvjmd tkc qou pohvbvyth dmujvymd
umkcmumc, vb vd vzpoddvshm bo mepmyb batb wavhm vk oqqvym bam tppovkbmmd
wvhh kob umrtuc bamvu bmknum td zoum ou hmdd cmpmkcmkb npok yokbvknmc
pohvbvyth dmujvym qou bamvu ptbuokd, tkc ko umrnhtbvokd, aowmjmu dbvqq ou
uvrvc, wvhh pumjmkb bavd, smytndm dnya umrnhtbvokd, vk jvmw oq bam zmbaoc
tkc zobvjm qou dmhmybvok, tum phtvkhl vkyokdvdbmkb tkc cmmzmc atuchl woubal
oq umdpmyb.