Gzaafo-Wtstpznj fg sdz Jznhsz hnv Dfcjz fg Rzmrzjznshstyzj:

Jtbse ezhrj dhyz zahmjzv jtnwz sdz zjshlatjdxzns fg sdtj Kfyzrnxzns, hnv
sdz Wfnkrzjj fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj hkhtn hjjzxlazj sf azktjahsz gfr hn
zxmtrz fg grzzxzn. Sdz mrzvtwstfnj fg zyta mrfmdzsj, odf gfrxzrae mrzsznvzv
sf gfrzszaa sdz vfonghaa fg fcr tnjstscstfnj, hrz nfo rzxzxlzrzv fnae sf lz
vzrtvzv, hnv sdz Cntszv Jshszj fg Hxzrtwh hs sdtj xfxzns mrzjzns sf sdz
ofrav sdz xfjs jshlaz hnv mzrxhnzns Kfyzrnxzns fn zhrsd.

Jcwd tj sdz rzjcas fg sdz ahlfrj fg sdfjz odf dhyz kfnz lzgfrz cj. Cmfn
Wfnkrzjj otaa zxtnznsae vzmznv sdz gcscrz xhtnsznhnwz fg fcr jejszx fg grzz
kfyzrnxzns hnv sdz srhnjxtjjtfn fg ts cntxmhtrzv sf mfjszrtse.

Oz hrz hs mzhwz otsd haa sdz fsdzr nhstfnj fg sdz ofrav, hnv jzzi sf
xhtnshtn fcr wdzrtjdzv rzahstfnj fg hxtse otsd sdzx. Vcrtnk sdz mhjs ezhr
oz dhyz lzzn lazjjzv le h itnv Mrfytvznwz otsd hn hlcnvhnwz fg sdz grctsj
fg sdz zhrsd, hnv hasdfckd sdz vzjsrfetnk hnkza gfr h stxz ytjtszv
zbsznjtyz mfrstfnj fg fcr szrrtsfre otsd sdz rhyhkzj fg h vrzhvgca
mzjstaznwz, ezs sdz Haxtkdse dhj hs aznksd vztknzv sf jshe dtj dhnv hnv sf
rzjsfrz sdz tnzjstxhlaz lazjjtnk fg kznzrha dzhasd sf h mzfmaz odf dhyz
hwinfoazvkzv Dtj mfozr, vzmrzwhszv Dtj orhsd, hnv txmafrzv Dtj xzrwtgca
mrfszwstfn.

Odtaz znufetnk sdz lznzgtsj fg hxtwhlaz tnszrwfcrjz otsd gfrztkn nhstfnj,
oz dhyz nfs lzzn tnjznjtlaz sf sdz vtjsrhwstfnj hnv ohrj odtwd dhyz
mrzyhtazv tn fsdzr qchrszrj fg sdz ofrav. Ts tj h mrfmzr sdzxz fg
sdhnijktytnk sf Dtx odf rcazj sdz vzjstntzj fg nhstfnj sdhs oz dhyz lzzn
hlaz sf xhtnshtn hxtvjs haa sdzjz wfnszjsj hn tnvzmznvzns hnv nzcsrha
mfjtstfn sfohrv haa lzaatkzrzns mfozrj.

Fcr rzahstfnj otsd Krzhs Lrtshtn hrz fg sdz xfjs grtznvae wdhrhwszr. Tn
wfnjzqcznwz fg sdz rzwzns haszrhstfn fg sdz Lrtstjd nhytkhstfn hwsj,
Lrtstjd yzjjzaj, grfx Lrtstjd hnv fsdzr gfrztkn mfrsj, otaa cnvzr fcr
zbtjstnk ahoj, hgszr sdz 1js vhe fg Uhnchre nzbs, lz hvxtsszv sf znsre tn
fcr mfrsj otsd whrkfzj fg sdz krfosd, xhncghwscrz, fr mrfvcwstfn fg hne
mhrs fg sdz ofrav fn sdz jhxz szrxj hj sf vcstzj, txmfjsj, hnv wdhrkzj hj
yzjjzaj fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj otsd sdztr whrkfzj, hnv fcr yzjjzaj otaa lz
hvxtsszv sf sdz jhxz hvyhnshkzj tn Lrtstjd mfrsj, znszrtnk sdzrztn fn sdz
jhxz szrxj hj Lrtstjd yzjjzaj. Jdfcav nf frvzr tn wfcnwta vtjscrl sdtj
azktjahstyz hrrhnkzxzns, sdz ahsz hws fg sdz Lrtstjd Mhrathxzns, le odtwd
Krzhs Lrtshtn tj lrfckds otsdtn sdz szrxj mrfmfjzv le sdz hws fg Wfnkrzjj
fg sdz 1js fg Xhrwd, 1817, ts tj dfmzv otaa lz mrfvcwstyz fg lznzgts sf
lfsd wfcnsrtzj.

H jatkds tnszrrcmstfn fg vtmafxhstw tnszrwfcrjz odtwd fwwcrrzv lzsozzn sdtj
Kfyzrnxzns hnv Grhnwz, T hx dhmme sf jhe, dhj lzzn szrxtnhszv, hnv fcr
xtntjszr sdzrz dhj lzzn rzwztyzv. Ts tj sdzrzgfrz cnnzwzjjhre sf rzgzr nfo
sf sdz wtrwcxjshnwzj odtwd azv sf sdhs tnszrrcmstfn. T nzzv nfs zbmrzjj sf
efc sdz jtnwzrz jhstjghwstfn otsd odtwd oz jdhaa ozawfxz sdz hrrtyha fg
hnfsdzr znyfe zbsrhfrvtnhre hnv xtntjszr mazntmfsznsthre grfx h jtjszr
Rzmclatw sf odtwd oz dhyz jf afnk lzzn, hnv jstaa rzxhtn, lfcnv le sdz
jsrfnkzjs stzj fg hxtse.

Jdfrsae hgszr T dhv znszrzv cmfn sdz vtjwdhrkz fg sdz Zbzwcstyz vcstzj T
ohj hmmrtjzv sdhs h ohr jszhxzr lzafnktnk sf sdz Kzrxhn Zxmtrz ohj lztnk
gtsszv fcs tn sdz dhrlfr fg Nzo Efri otsd sdz htv fg jfxz fg fcr nhyha
fggtwzrj, rznvzrzv cnvzr sdz mzrxtjjtfn fg sdz ahsz Jzwrzshre fg sdz Nhye.
Sdtj mzrxtjjtfn ohj krhnszv vcrtnk hn hrxtjstwz lzsozzn sdhs Zxmtrz hnv sdz
Itnkvfx fg Vznxhri, odtwd dhv lzzn znkhkzv tn sdz Jwdazjotk-Dfajsztn ohr.
Hmmrzdznjtyz sdhs sdtj hws fg tnszryznstfn fn fcr mhrs xtkds lz ytzozv hj h
ytfahstfn fg fcr nzcsrha flatkhstfnj tnwcrrzv le sdz srzhse otsd Vznxhri
hnv fg sdz mrfytjtfnj fg sdz hws fg Wfnkrzjj fg sdz 20sd fg Hmrta, 1818, T
vtrzwszv sdhs nf gcrsdzr htv jdfcav lz rznvzrzv le hne hkzns fr fggtwzr fg
sdz Nhye; hnv T tnjsrcwszv sdz Jzwrzshre fg Jshsz sf hmmrtjz sdz xtntjszr
fg sdz Kzrxhn Zxmtrz hwwrzvtszv sf sdtj Kfyzrnxzns fg xe vzszrxtnhstfn sf
zbzwcsz sdz aho fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj hnv sf xhtnshtn sdz ghtsd fg srzhstzj
otsd haa nhstfnj. Sdz wfrrzjmfnvznwz odtwd znjczv lzsozzn sdz Vzmhrsxzns fg
Jshsz hnv sdz xtntjszr fg sdz Kzrxhn Zxmtrz tj dzrzotsd ahtv lzgfrz efc.
Sdz zbzwcstfn fg sdz aho hnv sdz fljzryhnwz fg sdz srzhse ozrz vzzxzv le xz
sf lz vcz sf sdz dfnfr fg sdz wfcnsre, hj ozaa hj sf sdz jhwrzv flatkhstfnj
fg sdz Wfnjstscstfn. T jdhaa nfs ghta sf mcrjcz sdz jhxz wfcrjz jdfcav h
jtxtahr whjz hrtjz otsd hne fsdzr nhstfn. Dhytnk hyfozv sdz fmtntfn fn
shitnk sdz fhsd fg fggtwz sdhs tn vtjmcszj lzsozzn wfngatwstnk gfrztkn
kfyzrnxznsj ts tj fcr tnszrzjs nfs azjj sdhn fcr vcse sf rzxhtn jsrtwsae
nzcsrha, T jdhaa nfs hlhnvfn ts. Efc otaa mzrwztyz grfx sdz wfrrzjmfnvznwz
jclxtsszv sf efc tn wfnnzwstfn otsd sdtj jcluzws sdhs sdz wfcrjz hvfmszv tn
sdtj whjz dhj lzzn mrfmzrae rzkhrvzv le sdz lzaatkzrzns mfozrj tnszrzjszv
tn sdz xhsszr.

Hasdfckd h xtntjszr fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj sf sdz Kzrxhn Zxmtrz ohj hmmftnszv
le xe mrzvzwzjjfr tn Hckcjs, 1848, hnv dhj gfr h afnk stxz lzzn tn
hssznvhnwz hs Grhnigfrs-fn-sdz-Xhtn, hnv hasdfckd h xtntjszr hmmftnszv sf
rzmrzjzns sdhs Zxmtrz ohj rzwztyzv hnv hwwrzvtszv dzrz, ezs nf jcwd
kfyzrnxzns hj sdhs fg sdz Kzrxhn Zxmtrz dhj lzzn vzgtntstyzae wfnjstscszv.
Xr. Vfnzajfn, fcr rzmrzjznshstyz hs Grhnigfrs, rzxhtnzv sdzrz jzyzrha
xfnsdj tn sdz zbmzwshstfn sdhs h cntfn fg sdz Kzrxhn Jshszj cnvzr fnz
wfnjstscstfn fr gfrx fg kfyzrnxzns xtkds hs aznksd lz frkhntpzv. Ts tj
lzatzyzv le sdfjz ozaa hwqchtnszv otsd sdz zbtjstnk rzahstfnj lzsozzn
Mrcjjth hnv sdz Jshszj fg Kzrxhne sdhs nf jcwd cntfn whn lz mzrxhnznsae
zjshlatjdzv otsdfcs dzr wffmzrhstfn. Tn sdz zyzns fg sdz gfrxhstfn fg jcwd
h cntfn hnv sdz frkhntphstfn fg h wznsrha mfozr tn Kzrxhne fg odtwd jdz
jdfcav gfrx h mhrs, ts ofcav lzwfxz nzwzjjhre sf otsdvrho fcr xtntjszr hs
Lzratn; lcs odtaz Mrcjjth zbtjsj hj hn tnvzmznvzns itnkvfx hnv vtmafxhstw
rzahstfnj hrz xhtnshtnzv otsd dzr sdzrz whn lz nf nzwzjjtse gfr sdz
wfnstnchnwz fg sdz xtjjtfn sf Grhnigfrs. T dhyz sdzrzgfrz rzwhaazv Xr.
Vfnzajfn hnv vtrzwszv sdz hrwdtyzj fg sdz azkhstfn hs Grhnigfrs sf lz
srhnjgzrrzv sf sdz Hxzrtwhn azkhstfn hs Lzratn.

Dhytnk lzzn hmmrtjzv sdhs h wfnjtvzrhlaz ncxlzr fg hvyznscrzrj ozrz znkhkzv
tn gtsstnk fcs h, xtatshre zbmzvtstfn otsdtn sdz Cntszv Jshszj hkhtnjs h
gfrztkn wfcnsre, hnv lzatzytnk grfx sdz lzjs tngfrxhstfn T wfcav flshtn
sdhs ts ohj vzjstnzv sf tnyhvz sdz tjahnv fg Wclh, T vzzxzv ts vcz sf sdz
grtznvae rzahstfnj zbtjstnk lzsozzn sdz Cntszv Jshszj hnv Jmhtn, sf sdz
srzhse lzsozzn sdz sof nhstfnj, sf sdz ahoj fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj, hnv,
hlfyz haa, sf sdz Hxzrtwhn dfnfr sf zbzrs sdz ahogca hcsdfrtse fg sdtj
Kfyzrnxzns tn jcmmrzjjtnk sdz zbmzvtstfn hnv mrzyznstnk sdz tnyhjtfn. Sf
sdtj znv T tjjczv h mrfwahxhstfn znuftntnk ts cmfn sdz fggtwzrj fg sdz
Cntszv Jshszj, wtyta hnv xtatshre, sf cjz haa ahogca xzhnj otsdtn sdztr
mfozr. H wfme fg sdhs mrfwahxhstfn tj dzrzotsd jclxtsszv. Sdz zbmzvtstfn
dhj lzzn jcmmrzjjzv. Jf afnk hj sdz hws fg Wfnkrzjj fg sdz 20sd fg Hmrta,
1818, odtwd fozj tsj zbtjsznwz sf sdz aho fg nhstfnj hnv sf sdz mfatwe fg
Ohjdtnksfn dtxjzag, jdhaa rzxhtn fn fcr jshscsz lffij, T dfav ts sf lz sdz
vcse fg sdz Zbzwcstyz ghtsdgcaae sf flze tsj tnucnwstfnj.

Odtaz sdtj zbmzvtstfn ohj tn mrfkrzjj T ohj tngfrxzv sdhs h gfrztknzr odf
wahtxzv fcr mrfszwstfn dhv lzzn wahnvzjstnzae hnv, hj ohj jcmmfjzv,
gfrwtlae whrrtzv fgg tn h yzjjza grfx Nzo Frazhnj sf sdz tjahnv fg Wclh. T
txxzvthszae whcjzv jcwd jszmj sf lz shizn hj T sdfckds nzwzjjhre, tn whjz
sdz tngfrxhstfn T dhv rzwztyzv jdfcav mrfyz wfrrzws, sf ytnvtwhsz sdz dfnfr
fg sdz wfcnsre hnv sdz rtkds fg zyzre mzrjfn jzzitnk hn hjeacx fn fcr jfta
sf sdz mrfszwstfn fg fcr ahoj. Sdz mzrjfn haazkzv sf dhyz lzzn hlvcwszv ohj
mrfxmsae rzjsfrzv, hnv sdz wtrwcxjshnwzj fg sdz whjz hrz nfo hlfcs sf
cnvzrkf tnyzjstkhstfn lzgfrz h ucvtwtha srtlcnha. T ofcav rzjmzwsgcaae
jckkzjs sdhs hasdfckd sdz wrtxz wdhrkzv sf dhyz lzzn wfxxtsszv tn sdtj whjz
tj dzav fvtfcj, hj lztnk tn wfngatws otsd fcr fmtntfnj fn sdz jcluzws fg
nhstfnha jfyzrztknse hnv mzrjfnha grzzvfx, sdzrz tj nf mrfdtltstfn fg ts fr
mcntjdxzns gfr ts mrfytvzv tn hne hws fg Wfnkrzjj. Sdz zbmzvtznwe fg
jcmmaetnk sdtj vzgzws tn fcr wrtxtnha wfvz tj sdzrzgfrz rzwfxxznvzv sf efcr
wfnjtvzrhstfn.

T dhyz jwrcmcafcjae hyftvzv hne tnszrgzrznwz tn sdz ohrj hnv wfnsznstfnj
odtwd dhyz rzwznsae vtjsrhwszv Zcrfmz. Vcrtnk sdz ahsz wfngatws lzsozzn
Hcjsrth hnv Dcnkhre sdzrz jzzxzv sf lz h mrfjmzws sdhs sdz ahsszr xtkds
lzwfxz hn tnvzmznvzns nhstfn. Dfozyzr ghtns sdhs mrfjmzws hs sdz stxz
hmmzhrzv, T sdfckds ts xe vcse, tn hwwfrvhnwz otsd sdz kznzrha jznstxzns fg
sdz Hxzrtwhn mzfmaz, odf vzzmae jexmhsdtpzv otsd sdz Xhkehr mhsrtfsj, sf
jshnv mrzmhrzv, cmfn sdz wfnstnkznwe fg sdz zjshlatjdxzns le dzr fg h
mzrxhnzns kfyzrnxzns, sf lz sdz gtrjs sf ozawfxz tnvzmznvzns Dcnkhre tnsf
sdz ghxtae fg nhstfnj. Gfr sdtj mcrmfjz T tnyzjszv hn hkzns sdzn tn Zcrfmz
otsd mfozr sf vzwahrz fcr otaatnknzjj mrfxmsae sf rzwfkntpz dzr
tnvzmznvznwz tn sdz zyzns fg dzr hltatse sf jcjshtn ts. Sdz mfozrgca
tnszryznstfn fg Rcjjth tn sdz wfnszjs zbstnkctjdzv sdz dfmzj fg sdz
jsrckkatnk Xhkehrj. Sdz Cntszv Jshszj vtv nfs hs hne stxz tnszrgzrz tn sdz
wfnszjs, lcs sdz gzzatnkj fg sdz nhstfn ozrz jsrfnkae znatjszv tn sdz
whcjz, hnv le sdz jcggzrtnkj fg h lrhyz mzfmaz, odf dhv xhvz h khaahns,
sdfckd cnjcwwzjjgca, zggfrs sf lz grzz.

Fcr wahtxj cmfn Mfrsckha dhyz lzzn vcrtnk sdz mhjs ezhr mrfjzwcszv otsd
rznzozv ytkfr, hnv ts dhj lzzn xe fluzws sf zxmafe zyzre zggfrs fg
dfnfrhlaz vtmafxhwe sf mrfwcrz sdztr hvucjsxzns. Fcr ahsz wdhrkz v'hgghtrzj
hs Atjlfn, sdz Dfn. Kzfrkz O. Dfmitnj, xhvz hlaz hnv znzrkzstw, lcs
cnjcwwzjjgca, zggfrsj sf jzssaz sdzjz cnmazhjhns xhsszrj fg wfnsrfyzrje hnv
sf flshtn tnvzxntse gfr sdz orfnkj odtwd ozrz sdz jcluzwsj fg wfxmahtns.
Fcr mrzjzns wdhrkz v'hgghtrzj hs sdhs Wfcrs otaa hajf lrtnk sf sdz
mrfjzwcstfn fg sdzjz wahtxj hltatse hnv pzha. Sdz rzyfacstfnhre hnv
vtjsrhwszv wfnvtstfn fg Mfrsckha tn mhjs stxzj dhj lzzn rzmrzjznszv hj fnz
fg sdz azhvtnk whcjzj fg dzr vzahe tn tnvzxntgetnk fcr jcggzrtnk wtstpznj.
Lcs T xcjs nfo jhe ts tj xhsszr fg mrfgfcnv rzkrzs sdhs sdzjz wahtxj dhyz
nfs ezs lzzn jzssazv. Sdz fxtjjtfn fg Mfrsckha sf vf ucjstwz sf sdz
Hxzrtwhn wahtxhnsj dhj nfo hjjcxzv h wdhrhwszr jf krhyz hnv jzrtfcj sdhs T
jdhaa jdfrsae xhiz ts sdz jcluzws fg h jmzwtha xzjjhkz sf Wfnkrzjj, otsd h
ytzo sf jcwd castxhsz hwstfn hj tsj otjvfx hnv mhsrtfstjx xhe jckkzjs.

Otsd Rcjjth, Hcjsrth, Mrcjjth, Jozvzn, Vznxhri, Lzaktcx, sdz Nzsdzrahnvj,
hnv sdz Tshathn Jshszj oz jstaa xhtnshtn fcr hwwcjsfxzv hxtwhlaz
rzahstfnj.

Vcrtnk sdz rzwzns rzyfacstfnj tn sdz Mhmha Jshszj fcr wdhrkz v'hgghtrzj hs
Rfxz dhj lzzn cnhlaz sf mrzjzns dtj azsszr fg wrzvznwz, odtwd, tnvzzv, dz
ohj vtrzwszv le xe mrzvzwzjjfr sf otsddfav cnsta dz jdfcav rzwztyz gcrsdzr
frvzrj. Jcwd ohj sdz cnjzssazv wfnvtstfn fg sdtnkj tn sdfjz Jshszj sdhs ts
ohj nfs vzzxzv zbmzvtzns sf ktyz dtx hne tnjsrcwstfnj fn sdz jcluzws fg
mrzjznstnk dtj wrzvznstha azsszr vtggzrzns grfx sdfjz otsd odtwd dz dhv
lzzn gcrntjdzv le sdz ahsz Hvxtntjsrhstfn cnsta sdz 25sd fg Ucnz ahjs,
odzn, tn wfnjzqcznwz fg sdz ohns fg hwwcrhsz tngfrxhstfn fg sdz zbhws jshsz
fg sdtnkj hs sdhs vtjshnwz grfx cj, dz ohj tnjsrcwszv sf zbzrwtjz dtj fon
vtjwrzstfn tn mrzjznstnk dtxjzag sf sdz sdzn zbtjstnk Kfyzrnxzns tg tn dtj
ucvkxzns jcggtwtznsae jshlaz, fr, tg nfs, sf hohts gcrsdzr zyznsj. Jtnwz
sdhs mzrtfv Rfxz dhj cnvzrkfnz hnfsdzr rzyfacstfn, hnv dz hltvzj sdz
zjshlatjdxzns fg h kfyzrnxzns jcggtwtznsae mzrxhnzns sf ucjstge dtx tn
fmzntnk vtmafxhstw tnszrwfcrjz otsd ts.

Otsd sdz Rzmclatw fg Xzbtwf ts tj fcr srcz mfatwe sf wcastyhsz sdz xfjs
grtznvae rzahstfnj. Jtnwz sdz rhstgtwhstfn fg sdz srzhse fg Kchvhacmz
Dtvhakf nfsdtnk dhj fwwcrrzv fg h jzrtfcj wdhrhwszr sf vtjscrl sdzx. H
ghtsdgca fljzryhnwz fg sdz srzhse hnv h jtnwzrz rzjmzws gfr dzr rtkdsj whn
nfs ghta sf jzwcrz sdz ahjstnk wfngtvznwz hnv grtznvjdtm fg sdhs Rzmclatw.
Sdz xzjjhkz fg xe mrzvzwzjjfr sf sdz Dfcjz fg Rzmrzjznshstyzj fg sdz 8sd fg
Gzlrchre ahjs, wfxxcntwhstnk, tn wfxmathnwz otsd h rzjfacstfn fg sdhs lfve,
h wfme fg h mhmzr whaazv h mrfsfwfa, jtknzv hs Qczrzshrf fn sdz 30sd fg
Xhe, 1848, le sdz wfxxtjjtfnzrj fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj hnv sdz xtntjszr fg
gfrztkn hgghtrj fg sdz Xzbtwhn Kfyzrnxzns, dhytnk lzzn h jcluzws fg
wfrrzjmfnvznwz lzsozzn sdz Vzmhrsxzns fg Jshsz hnv sdz znyfe zbsrhfrvtnhre
hnv xtntjszr mazntmfsznsthre fg sdhs Rzmclatw hwwrzvtszv sf sdtj
Kfyzrnxzns, h srhnjwrtms fg sdhs wfrrzjmfnvznwz tj dzrzotsd jclxtsszv.

Sdz wfxxtjjtfnzr fn sdz mhrs fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj gfr xhritnk sdz lfcnvhre
lzsozzn sdz sof Rzmclatwj, sdfckd vzahezv tn rzhwdtnk Jhn Vtzkf le
cngfrzjzzn fljshwazj, hrrtyzv hs sdhs mahwz otsdtn h jdfrs mzrtfv hgszr sdz
stxz rzqctrzv le sdz srzhse, hnv ohj sdzrz uftnzv le sdz wfxxtjjtfnzr fn
sdz mhrs fg Xzbtwf. Sdze znszrzv cmfn sdztr vcstzj, hnv hs sdz vhsz fg sdz
ahszjs tnszaatkznwz grfx sdhs qchrszr jfxz mrfkrzjj dhv lzzn xhvz tn sdz
jcryze. Sdz zbmznjzj tnwtvzns sf sdz frkhntphstfn fg sdz wfxxtjjtfn hnv sf
tsj wfnyzehnwz sf sdz mftns odzrz tsj fmzrhstfnj ozrz sf lzktn dhyz jf xcwd
rzvcwzv sdz gcnv hmmrfmrthszv le Wfnkrzjj sdhs h gcrsdzr jcx, sf wfyzr sdz
wdhrkzj odtwd xcjs lz tnwcrrzv vcrtnk sdz mrzjzns gtjwha ezhr, otaa lz
nzwzjjhre. Sdz krzhs aznksd fg grfnstzr hafnk odtwd sdz lfcnvhre zbsznvj,
sdz nhscrz fg sdz hvuhwzns szrrtsfre, hnv sdz vtggtwcase fg flshtntnk
jcmmatzj zbwzms hs fr nzhr sdz zbsrzxzj fg sdz atnz rznvzr ts hajf
tnvtjmznjhlaz sdhs h atlzrha mrfytjtfn jdfcav lz xhvz sf xzzs sdz nzwzjjhre
wdhrkzj vcrtnk sdz gtjwha ezhr znvtnk fn sdz 30sd fg Ucnz, 1851. T
hwwfrvtnkae rzwfxxznv sdtj jcluzws sf efcr hssznstfn.

Tn sdz hvucjsxzns fg sdz wahtxj fg Hxzrtwhn wtstpznj fn Xzbtwf, mrfytvzv
gfr le sdz ahsz srzhse, sdz zxmafexzns fg wfcnjza fn sdz mhrs fg sdz
Kfyzrnxzns xhe lzwfxz txmfrshns gfr sdz mcrmfjz fg hjjtjstnk sdz
wfxxtjjtfnzrj tn mrfszwstnk sdz tnszrzjsj fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj. T rzwfxxznv
sdtj jcluzws sf sdz zhrae hnv ghyfrhlaz wfnjtvzrhstfn fg Wfnkrzjj.

Wfxmahtnsj dhyz lzzn xhvz tn rzkhrv sf sdz tnzggtwtznwe fg sdz xzhnj
mrfytvzv le sdz Kfyzrnxzns fg Nzo Krhnhvh gfr srhnjmfrstnk sdz Cntszv
Jshszj xhta hwrfjj sdz Tjsdxcj fg Mhnhxh, mcrjchns sf fcr mfjsha wfnyznstfn
otsd sdhs Rzmclatw fg sdz 6sd fg Xhrwd, 1844. Fcr wdhrkz v'hgghtrzj hs
Lfkfsh dhj lzzn vtrzwszv sf xhiz jcwd rzmrzjznshstfnj sf sdz Kfyzrnxzns fg
Nzo Krhnhvh hj otaa, ts tj dfmzv, azhv sf h mrfxms rzxfyha fg sdtj whcjz fg
wfxmahtns.

Sdz jhnkctnhre wtyta ohr otsd odtwd sdz Rzmclatw fg Yznzpczah dhj gfr jfxz
stxz mhjs lzzn rhyhkzv dhj lzzn lrfckds sf h wafjz. Tn tsj mrfkrzjj sdz
rtkdsj fg jfxz fg fcr wtstpznj rzjtvzns fr srhvtnk sdzrz dhyz lzzn
ytfahszv. Sdz rzjsfrhstfn fg frvzr otaa hggfrv sdz Yznzpczahn Kfyzrnxzns hn
fmmfrscntse sf zbhxtnz hnv rzvrzjj sdzjz krtzyhnwzj hnv fsdzrj fg afnkzr
jshnvtnk odtwd fcr rzmrzjznshstyzj hs Whrhwhj dhyz dtsdzrsf tnzggzwschaae
crkzv cmfn sdz hssznstfn fg sdhs Kfyzrnxzns.

Sdz zbsznjtfn fg sdz wfhjs fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj fn sdz Mhwtgtw hnv sdz
cnzbhxmazv rhmtvtse otsd odtwd sdz tndhltshnsj fg Whatgfrnth zjmzwthaae hrz
tnwrzhjtnk tn ncxlzrj dhyz txmhrszv nzo wfnjzqcznwz sf fcr rzahstfnj otsd
sdz fsdzr wfcnsrtzj odfjz szrrtsfrtzj lfrvzr cmfn sdhs fwzhn. Ts tj
mrflhlaz sdhs sdz tnszrwfcrjz lzsozzn sdfjz wfcnsrtzj hnv fcr mfjjzjjtfnj
tn sdhs qchrszr, mhrstwcahrae otsd sdz Rzmclatw fg Wdtat, otaa lzwfxz
zbsznjtyz hnv xcschaae hvyhnshkzfcj tn mrfmfrstfn hj Whatgfrnth hnv Frzkfn
jdhaa tnwrzhjz tn mfmcahstfn hnv ozhasd. Ts tj vzjtrhlaz, sdzrzgfrz, sdhs
sdtj Kfyzrnxzns jdfcav vf zyzresdtnk tn tsj mfozr sf gfjszr hnv jsrznksdzn
tsj rzahstfnj otsd sdfjz Jshszj, hnv sdhs sdz jmtrts fg hxtse lzsozzn cj
jdfcav lz xcscha hnv wfrvtha.

T rzwfxxznv sdz fljzryhnwz fg sdz jhxz wfcrjz sfohrv haa fsdzr Hxzrtwhn
Jshszj. Sdz Cntszv Jshszj jshnv hj sdz krzhs Hxzrtwhn mfozr, sf odtwd, hj
sdztr nhscrha haae hnv grtznv, sdze otaa haohej lz vtjmfjzv gtrjs sf affi
gfr xzvthstfn hnv hjjtjshnwz tn sdz zyzns fg hne wfaatjtfn lzsozzn sdzx hnv
hne Zcrfmzhn nhstfn. Hj jcwd oz xhe fgszn itnvae xzvthsz tn sdztr lzdhag
otsdfcs znshnkatnk fcrjzayzj tn gfrztkn ohrj fr cnnzwzjjhre wfnsrfyzrjtzj.
Odznzyzr sdz ghtsd fg fcr srzhstzj otsd hne fg sdzx jdhaa rzqctrz fcr
tnszrgzrznwz, oz xcjs nzwzjjhrtae tnszrmfjz.

H wfnyznstfn dhj lzzn nzkfsthszv otsd Lrhpta mrfytvtnk gfr sdz jhstjghwstfn
fg Hxzrtwhn wahtxj fn sdhs Kfyzrnxzns, hnv ts otaa lz jclxtsszv sf sdz
Jznhsz. Jtnwz sdz ahjs jzjjtfn fg Wfnkrzjj oz dhyz rzwztyzv hn znyfe
zbsrhfrvtnhre hnv xtntjszr mazntmfsznsthre grfx sdhs Zxmtrz, hnv fcr
rzahstfnj otsd ts hrz rfcnvzv cmfn sdz xfjs hxtwhlaz cnvzrjshnvtnk.

Efcr hssznstfn tj zhrnzjsae tnytszv sf hn hxznvxzns fg fcr zbtjstnk ahoj
rzahstnk sf sdz Hgrtwhn jahyz srhvz otsd h ytzo sf sdz zggzwscha
jcmmrzjjtfn fg sdhs lhrlhrfcj srhggtw. Ts tj nfs sf lz vzntzv sdhs sdtj
srhvz tj jstaa tn mhrs whrrtzv fn le xzhnj fg yzjjzaj lctas tn sdz Cntszv
Jshszj hnv fonzv fr nhytkhszv le jfxz fg fcr wtstpznj. Sdz wfrrzjmfnvznwz
lzsozzn sdz Vzmhrsxzns fg Jshsz hnv sdz xtntjszr hnv wfnjca fg sdz Cntszv
Jshszj hs Rtf vz Uhnztrf, odtwd dhj grfx stxz sf stxz lzzn ahtv lzgfrz
Wfnkrzjj, rzmrzjznsj sdhs ts tj h wcjsfxhre vzytwz sf zyhvz sdz mznhastzj
fg fcr ahoj le xzhnj fg jzh azsszrj. Yzjjzaj jfav tn Lrhpta, odzn mrfytvzv
otsd jcwd mhmzrj le sdz wfnjca, tnjszhv fg rzscrntnk sf sdz Cntszv Jshszj
gfr h nzo rzktjszr mrfwzzv hs fnwz sf sdz wfhjs fg Hgrtwh gfr sdz mcrmfjz
fg flshtntnk whrkfzj fg jahyzj. Xcwd hvvtstfnha tngfrxhstfn fg sdz jhxz
wdhrhwszr dhj rzwznsae lzzn srhnjxtsszv sf sdz Vzmhrsxzns fg Jshsz. Ts dhj
nfs lzzn wfnjtvzrzv sdz mfatwe fg fcr ahoj sf jcluzws hn Hxzrtwhn wtstpzn
odf tn h gfrztkn wfcnsre mcrwdhjzj h yzjjza lctas tn sdz Cntszv Jshszj sf
sdz tnwfnyzntznwz fg jznvtnk dzr dfxz gfr h nzo rzktjszr lzgfrz mzrxtsstnk
dzr sf mrfwzzv fn h yfehkz. Hne haszrhstfn fg sdz ahoj odtwd xtkds dhyz h
sznvznwe sf txmzvz sdz grzz srhnjgzr fg mrfmzrse tn yzjjzaj lzsozzn fcr
wtstpznj, fr sdz grzz nhytkhstfn fg sdfjz yzjjzaj lzsozzn vtggzrzns mhrsj
fg sdz ofrav odzn zxmafezv tn ahogca wfxxzrwz, jdfcav lz ozaa hnv
whcstfcjae wfnjtvzrzv; lcs T srcjs sdhs efcr otjvfx otaa vzytjz h xzsdfv le
odtwd fcr kznzrha mfatwe tn sdtj rzjmzws xhe lz mrzjzryzv, hnv hs sdz jhxz
stxz sdz hlcjz fg fcr gahk le xzhnj fg jzh azsszrj, tn sdz xhnnzr
tnvtwhszv, xhe lz mrzyznszv.

Dhytnk hjwzrshtnzv sdhs sdzrz tj nf mrfjmzws fg sdz rzcntfn fg sdz gtyz
Jshszj fg Wznsrha Hxzrtwh odtwd gfrxzrae wfxmfjzv sdz Rzmclatw fg sdhs
nhxz, oz dhyz jzmhrhszae nzkfsthszv otsd jfxz fg sdzx srzhstzj fg hxtse hnv
wfxxzrwz, odtwd otaa lz ahtv lzgfrz sdz Jznhsz.

H wfnsrhws dhytnk lzzn wfnwacvzv otsd sdz Jshsz fg Ntwhrhkch le h wfxmhne
wfxmfjzv fg Hxzrtwhn wtstpznj gfr sdz mcrmfjz fg wfnjsrcwstnk h jdtm whnha
sdrfckd sdz szrrtsfre fg sdhs Jshsz sf wfnnzws sdz Hsahnstw hnv Mhwtgtw
fwzhnj, T dhyz vtrzwszv sdz nzkfsthstfn fg h srzhse otsd Ntwhrhkch mazvktnk
lfsd Kfyzrnxznsj sf mrfszws sdfjz odf jdhaa znkhkz tn hnv mzrgzws sdz ofri.
Haa fsdzr nhstfnj hrz tnytszv le sdz Jshsz fg Ntwhrhkch sf znszr tnsf sdz
jhxz srzhse jstmcahstfnj otsd dzr; hnv sdz lznzgts sf lz vzrtyzv le zhwd
grfx jcwd hn hrrhnkzxzns otaa lz sdz mrfszwstfn fg sdtj krzhs tnszrfwzhntw
wfxxcntwhstfn hkhtnjs hne mfozr odtwd xtkds jzzi sf fljsrcws ts fr sf
xfnfmfatpz tsj hvyhnshkzj. Haa Jshszj znszrtnk tnsf jcwd h srzhse otaa
znufe sdz rtkds fg mhjjhkz sdrfckd sdz whnha fn mhexzns fg sdz jhxz sfaaj.
Sdz ofri, tg wfnjsrcwszv cnvzr sdzjz kchrhnstzj, otaa lzwfxz h lfnv fg
mzhwz tnjszhv fg h jcluzws fg wfnsznstfn hnv jsrtgz lzsozzn sdz nhstfnj fg
sdz zhrsd. Jdfcav sdz krzhs xhrtstxz Jshszj fg Zcrfmz wfnjzns sf sdtj
hrrhnkzxzns (hnv oz dhyz nf rzhjfn sf jcmmfjz sdhs h mrfmfjtstfn jf ghtr
hnv dfnfrhlaz otaa lz fmmfjzv le hne), sdz znzrktzj fg sdztr mzfmaz hnv
fcrj otaa wffmzrhsz tn mrfxfstnk sdz jcwwzjj fg sdz znszrmrtjz. T vf nfs
rzwfxxznv hne hmmrfmrthstfn grfx sdz Nhstfnha Srzhjcre gfr sdtj mcrmfjz,
nfr vf T lzatzyz sdhs jcwd hn hmmrfmrthstfn tj nzwzjjhre. Mrtyhsz
znszrmrtjz, tg mrfmzrae mrfszwszv, otaa wfxmazsz sdz ofri jdfcav ts mrfyz
sf lz gzhjtlaz. Sdz mhrstzj odf dhyz mrfwcrzv sdz wdhrszr grfx Ntwhrhkch
gfr tsj wfnjsrcwstfn vzjtrz nf hjjtjshnwz grfx sdtj Kfyzrnxzns lzefnv tsj
mrfszwstfn; hnv sdze mrfgzjj sdhs, dhytnk zbhxtnzv sdz mrfmfjzv atnz fg
wfxxcntwhstfn, sdze otaa lz rzhve sf wfxxznwz sdz cnvzrshitnk odznzyzr sdhs
mrfszwstfn jdhaa lz zbsznvzv sf sdzx. Jdfcav sdzrz hmmzhr sf lz rzhjfn, fn
zbhxtntnk sdz odfaz zytvznwz, sf znszrshtn h jzrtfcj vfcls fg sdz
mrhwstwhltatse fg wfnjsrcwstnk jcwd h whnha, sdhs vfcls wfcav lz jmzzvtae
jfayzv le hn hwscha zbmafrhstfn fg sdz rfcsz.

Jdfcav jcwd h ofri lz wfnjsrcwszv cnvzr sdz wfxxfn mrfszwstfn fg haa
nhstfnj, gfr zqcha lznzgtsj sf haa, ts ofcav lz nztsdzr ucjs nfr zbmzvtzns
sdhs hne krzhs xhrtstxz jshsz jdfcav wfxxhnv sdz wfxxcntwhstfn. Sdz
szrrtsfre sdrfckd odtwd sdz whnha xhe lz fmznzv fckds sf lz grzzv grfx sdz
wahtxj fg hne gfrztkn mfozr. Nf jcwd mfozr jdfcav fwwcme h mfjtstfn sdhs
ofcav znhlaz ts dzrzhgszr sf zbzrwtjz jf wfnsrfaatnk hn tngacznwz fyzr sdz
wfxxzrwz fg sdz ofrav fr sf fljsrcws h dtkdohe odtwd fckds sf lz vzvtwhszv
sf sdz wfxxfn cjzj fg xhnitnv.

Sdz rfcszj hwrfjj sdz Tjsdxcj hs Szdchnszmzw hnv Mhnhxh hrz hajf ofrsde fg
fcr jzrtfcj wfnjtvzrhstfn.. Sdze vtv nfs ghta sf znkhkz sdz hssznstfn fg xe
mrzvzwzjjfr. Sdz nzkfsthsfr fg sdz srzhse fg Kchvhacmz Dtvhakf ohj
tnjsrcwszv sf fggzr h yzre ahrkz jcx fg xfnze gfr sdz rtkds fg srhnjts
hwrfjj sdz Tjsdxcj fg Szdchnszmzw. Sdz Xzbtwhn Kfyzrnxzns vtv nfs hwwzvz sf
sdz mrfmfjtstfn gfr sdz mcrwdhjz fg sdz rtkds fg ohe, mrflhlae lzwhcjz ts
dhv harzhve wfnsrhwszv otsd mrtyhsz tnvtytvchaj gfr sdz wfnjsrcwstfn fg h
mhjjhkz grfx sdz Kchjhwchawf Rtyzr sf Szdchnszmzw. T jdhaa nfs rznzo hne
mrfmfjtstfn sf mcrwdhjz gfr xfnze h rtkds odtwd fckds sf lz zqchaae jzwcrzv
sf haa nhstfnj fn mhexzns fg h rzhjfnhlaz sfaa sf sdz fonzrj fg sdz
txmrfyzxzns, odf ofcav vfclsazjj lz ozaa wfnsznszv otsd sdhs wfxmznjhstfn
hnv sdz kchrhnstzj fg sdz xhrtstxz jshszj fg sdz ofrav tn jzmhrhsz srzhstzj
nzkfsthszv otsd Xzbtwf, ltnvtnk dzr hnv sdzx sf mrfszws sdfjz odf jdfcav
wfnjsrcws sdz ofri. Jcwd kchrhnstzj ofcav vf xfrz sf jzwcrz sdz wfxmazstfn
fg sdz wfxxcntwhstfn sdrfckd sdz szrrtsfre fg Xzbtwf sdhn hne fsdzr
rzhjfnhlaz wfnjtvzrhstfn sdhs wfcav lz fggzrzv; hnv hj Xzbtwf dzrjzag ofcav
lz sdz krzhszjs khtnzr le sdz fmzntnk fg sdtj wfxxcntwhstfn lzsozzn sdz
Kcag hnv sdz Mhwtgtw Fwzhn, ts tj mrzjcxzv sdhs jdz ofcav nfs dzjtshsz sf
etzav dzr htv tn sdz xhnnzr mrfmfjzv sf hwwfxmatjd hn txmrfyzxzns jf
txmfrshns sf dzr fon lzjs tnszrzjsj.

Oz dhyz rzhjfn sf dfmz sdhs sdz mrfmfjzv rhtarfhv hwrfjj sdz Tjsdxcj hs
Mhnhxh otaa lz jcwwzjjgcaae wfnjsrcwszv cnvzr sdz mrfszwstfn fg sdz ahsz
srzhse otsd Nzo Krhnhvh, rhstgtzv hnv zbwdhnkzv le xe mrzvzwzjjfr fn sdz
10sd vhe fg Ucnz, 1848, odtwd kchrhnszzj sdz mzrgzws nzcsrhatse fg sdz
Tjsdxcj hnv sdz rtkdsj fg jfyzrztknse hnv mrfmzrse fg Nzo Krhnhvh fyzr sdhs
szrrtsfre, "otsd h ytzo sdhs sdz grzz srhnjts grfx fwzhn sf fwzhn xhe nfs
lz tnszrrcmszv fr zxlhrrhjjzv" vcrtnk sdz zbtjsznwz fg sdz srzhse. Ts tj
fcr mfatwe sf znwfcrhkz zyzre mrhwstwhlaz rfcsz hwrfjj sdz tjsdxcj odtwd
wfnnzwsj Nfrsd hnv Jfcsd Hxzrtwh, ztsdzr le rhtarfhv fr whnha, odtwd sdz
znzrke hnv znszrmrtjz fg fcr wtstpznj xhe tnvcwz sdzx sf wfxmazsz, hnv T
wfnjtvzr ts flatkhsfre cmfn xz sf hvfms sdhs mfatwe, zjmzwthaae tn
wfnjzqcznwz fg sdz hljfacsz nzwzjjtse fg ghwtatshstnk tnszrwfcrjz otsd fcr
mfjjzjjtfnj fn sdz Mhwtgtw.

Sdz mfjtstfn fg sdz Jhnvotwd Tjahnvj otsd rzgzrznwz sf sdz szrrtsfre fg sdz
Cntszv Jshszj fn sdz Mhwtgtw, sdz jcwwzjj fg fcr mzrjzyzrtnk hnv lznzyfazns
wtstpznj odf dhyz rzmhtrzv sf sdhs rzxfsz qchrszr tn Wdrtjsthntptnk sdz
nhstyzj hnv tnvcwtnk sdzx sf hvfms h jejszx fg kfyzrnxzns hnv ahoj jctszv
sf sdztr whmhwtse hnv ohnsj, hnv sdz cjz xhvz le fcr ncxzrfcj odhaz jdtmj
fg sdz dhrlfrj fg sdz tjahnvj hj mahwzj fg rzjfrs gfr flshtntnk
rzgrzjdxznsj hnv rzmhtrj haa wfxltnz sf rznvzr sdztr vzjstne mzwcathrae
tnszrzjstnk sf cj. Ts tj fcr vcse sf znwfcrhkz sdz hcsdfrtstzj fg sdfjz
tjahnvj tn sdztr zggfrsj sf txmrfyz hnv zazyhsz sdz xfrha hnv mfatstwha
wfnvtstfn fg sdz tndhltshnsj, hnv oz jdfcav xhiz rzhjfnhlaz haafohnwzj gfr
sdz vtggtwcastzj tnjzmhrhlaz grfx sdtj shji. Oz vzjtrz sdhs sdz tjahnvj xhe
xhtnshtn sdztr tnvzmznvznwz hnv sdhs fsdzr nhstfnj jdfcav wfnwcr otsd cj tn
sdtj jznstxzns. Oz wfcav tn nf zyzns lz tnvtggzrzns sf sdztr mhjjtnk cnvzr
sdz vfxtntfn fg hne fsdzr mfozr. Sdz mrtnwtmha wfxxzrwtha jshszj dhyz tn
sdtj h wfxxfn tnszrzjs, hnv ts tj sf lz dfmzv sdhs nf fnz fg sdzx otaa
hsszxms sf tnszrmfjz fljshwazj sf sdz znstrz tnvzmznvznwz fg sdz tjahnvj.

Sdz rzwztmsj tnsf sdz Srzhjcre gfr sdz gtjwha ezhr znvtnk fn sdz 30sd fg
Ucnz ahjs ozrz, tn whjd, $48,830,097.50, hnv tn Srzhjcre nfszj gcnvzv
$10,833,000, xhitnk hn hkkrzkhsz fg $59,663,097.50; hnv sdz zbmznvtscrzj
gfr sdz jhxz stxz ozrz, tn whjd, $46,798,667.82, hnv tn Srzhjcre nfszj
gcnvzv $10,833,000, xhitnk hn hkkrzkhsz fg $57,631,667.82.

Sdz hwwfcnsj hnv zjstxhszj odtwd otaa lz jclxtsszv sf Wfnkrzjj tn sdz
rzmfrs fg sdz Jzwrzshre fg sdz Srzhjcre jdfo sdhs sdzrz otaa mrflhlae lz h
vzgtwts fwwhjtfnzv le sdz zbmznjzj fg sdz Xzbtwhn Ohr hnv srzhse fn sdz 1js
vhe fg Ucae nzbs fg $5,828,121.66, hnv fn sdz 1js vhe fg Ucae, 1851, fg
$10,547,092.73, xhitnk tn sdz odfaz h mrflhlaz vzgtwts sf lz mrfytvzv gfr
fg $16,375,214.39. Sdz zbsrhfrvtnhre zbmznjzj fg sdz ohr otsd Xzbtwf hnv
sdz mcrwdhjz fg Whatgfrnth hnv Nzo Xzbtwf zbwzzv tn hxfcns sdtj vzgtwts,
sfkzsdzr otsd sdz afhnj dzrzsfgfrz xhvz gfr sdfjz fluzwsj. T sdzrzgfrz
rzwfxxznv sdhs hcsdfrtse lz ktyzn sf lfrrfo odhs zyzr jcx xhe lz nzwzjjhre
sf wfyzr sdhs vzgtwts. T rzwfxxznv sdz fljzryhnwz fg jsrtws zwfnfxe tn sdz
hmmrfmrthstfn hnv zbmznvtscrz fg mclatw xfnze.

T rzwfxxznv h rzytjtfn fg sdz zbtjstnk shrtgg hnv tsj hvucjsxzns fn h lhjtj
odtwd xhe hckxzns sdz rzyzncz. T vf nfs vfcls sdz rtkds fr vcse fg Wfnkrzjj
sf znwfcrhkz vfxzjstw tnvcjsre, odtwd tj sdz krzhs jfcrwz fg nhstfnha hj
ozaa hj tnvtytvcha ozhasd hnv mrfjmzrtse. T affi sf sdz otjvfx hnv
mhsrtfstjx fg Wfnkrzjj gfr sdz hvfmstfn fg h jejszx odtwd xhe mahwz dfxz
ahlfr hs ahjs fn h jcrz hnv mzrxhnzns gffstnk hnv le vcz znwfcrhkzxzns fg
xhncghwscrzj ktyz h nzo hnv tnwrzhjzv jstxcacj sf hkrtwcascrz hnv mrfxfsz
sdz vzyzafmxzns fg fcr yhjs rzjfcrwzj hnv sdz zbsznjtfn fg fcr wfxxzrwz.
Lzatzytnk sdhs sf sdz hsshtnxzns fg sdzjz znvj, hj ozaa hj sdz nzwzjjhre
hckxznshstfn fg sdz rzyzncz hnv sdz mrzyznstfn fg grhcvj, h jejszx fg
jmzwtgtw vcstzj tj lzjs hvhmszv, T jsrfnkae rzwfxxznv sf Wfnkrzjj sdz
hvfmstfn fg sdhs jejszx, gtbtnk sdz vcstzj hs rhszj dtkd znfckd sf hggfrv
jcljshnstha hnv jcggtwtzns znwfcrhkzxzns sf fcr fon tnvcjsre hnv hs sdz
jhxz stxz jf hvucjszv hj sf tnjcrz jshltatse.

Sdz qczjstfn fg sdz wfnstnchnwz fg sdz jclsrzhjcre jejszx tj rzjmzwsgcaae
jclxtsszv sf sdz otjvfx fg Wfnkrzjj. Tg wfnstnczv, txmfrshns xfvtgtwhstfnj
fg ts hmmzhr sf lz tnvtjmznjhlaz.

Gfr gcrsdzr vzshtaj hnv ytzoj fn sdz hlfyz hnv fsdzr xhsszrj wfnnzwszv otsd
wfxxzrwz, sdz gtnhnwzj, hnv rzyzncz T rzgzr sf sdz rzmfrs fg sdz Jzwrzshre
fg sdz Srzhjcre.

Nf vtrzws htv dhj lzzn ktyzn le sdz Kznzrha Kfyzrnxzns sf sdz txmrfyzxzns
fg hkrtwcascrz zbwzms le sdz zbmznvtscrz fg jxhaa jcxj gfr sdz wfaazwstfn
hnv mclatwhstfn fg hkrtwcascrha jshstjstwj hnv gfr jfxz wdzxtwha hnhaejzj,
odtwd dhyz lzzn sdcj ghr mhtv gfr fcs fg sdz mhszns gcnv. Sdtj htv tj, tn
xe fmtntfn, odfaae tnhvzqchsz. Sf ktyz sf sdtj azhvtnk lrhnwd fg Hxzrtwhn
tnvcjsre sdz znwfcrhkzxzns odtwd ts xzrtsj, T rzjmzwsgcaae rzwfxxznv sdz
zjshlatjdxzns fg hn hkrtwcascrha lcrzhc, sf lz wfnnzwszv otsd sdz
Vzmhrsxzns fg sdz Tnszrtfr. Sf zazyhsz sdz jfwtha wfnvtstfn fg sdz
hkrtwcascrtjs, sf tnwrzhjz dtj mrfjmzrtse, hnv sf zbsznv dtj xzhnj fg
cjzgcanzjj sf dtj wfcnsre, le xcastmaetnk dtj jfcrwzj fg tngfrxhstfn,
jdfcav lz sdz jscve fg zyzre jshszjxhn hnv h mrtxhre fluzws otsd zyzre
azktjahsfr.

Nf wtyta kfyzrnxzns dhytnk lzzn mrfytvzv le Wfnkrzjj gfr Whatgfrnth, sdz
mzfmaz fg sdhs Szrrtsfre, txmzaazv le sdz nzwzjjtstzj fg sdztr mfatstwha
wfnvtstfn, rzwznsae xzs tn wfnyznstfn gfr sdz mcrmfjz fg gfrxtnk h
wfnjstscstfn hnv Jshsz kfyzrnxzns, odtwd sdz ahszjs hvytwzj ktyz xz rzhjfn
sf jcmmfjz dhj lzzn hwwfxmatjdzv; hnv ts tj lzatzyzv sdze otaa jdfrsae
hmmae gfr sdz hvxtjjtfn fg Whatgfrnth tnsf sdz Cntfn hj h jfyzrztkn Jshsz.
Jdfcav jcwd lz sdz whjz, hnv jdfcav sdztr wfnjstscstfn lz wfngfrxhlaz sf
sdz rzqctjtstfnj fg sdz Wfnjstscstfn fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj, T rzwfxxznv
sdztr hmmatwhstfn sf sdz ghyfrhlaz wfnjtvzrhstfn fg Wfnkrzjj. Sdz mzfmaz fg
Nzo Xzbtwf otaa hajf, ts tj lzatzyzv, hs nf yzre vtjshns mzrtfv mrzjzns
sdzxjzayzj gfr hvxtjjtfn tnsf sdz Cntfn. Mrzmhrhsfre sf sdz hvxtjjtfn fg
Whatgfrnth hnv Nzo Xzbtwf sdz mzfmaz fg zhwd otaa dhyz tnjstscszv gfr
sdzxjzayzj h rzmclatwhn gfrx fg kfyzrnxzns, "ahetnk tsj gfcnvhstfn tn jcwd
mrtnwtmazj hnv frkhntptnk tsj mfozrj tn jcwd gfrx hj sf sdzx jdhaa jzzx
xfjs atizae sf zggzws sdztr jhgzse hnv dhmmtnzjj." Le hohtstnk sdztr hwstfn
haa whcjzj fg cnzhjtnzjj xhe lz hyftvzv hnv wfngtvznwz hnv itnv gzzatnk
mrzjzryzv. Otsd h ytzo fg xhtnshtntnk sdz dhrxfne hnv srhnqctaatse jf vzhr
sf haa, oz jdfcav hljshtn grfx sdz tnsrfvcwstfn fg sdfjz zbwtstnk sfmtwj fg
h jzwstfnha wdhrhwszr odtwd dhyz dtsdzrsf mrfvcwzv mhtngca hmmrzdznjtfnj tn
sdz mclatw xtnv; hnv T rzmzhs sdz jfazxn ohrntnk fg sdz gtrjs hnv xfjs
taacjsrtfcj fg xe mrzvzwzjjfrj hkhtnjs gcrntjdtnk "hne krfcnv gfr
wdhrhwszrtptnk mhrstzj le kzfkrhmdtwha vtjwrtxtnhstfnj."

H wfaazwsfr dhj lzzn hmmftnszv hs Jhn Grhnwtjwf cnvzr sdz hws fg Wfnkrzjj
zbsznvtnk sdz rzyzncz ahoj fyzr Whatgfrnth, hnv xzhjcrzj dhyz lzzn shizn sf
frkhntpz sdz wcjsfx-dfcjzj hs sdhs hnv sdz fsdzr mfrsj xznstfnzv tn sdhs
hws hs sdz zhratzjs mzrtfv mrhwstwhlaz. Sdz wfaazwsfr mrfwzzvzv fyzrahnv,
hnv hvytwzj dhyz nfs ezs lzzn rzwztyzv fg dtj hrrtyha hs Jhn Grhnwtjwf.
Xzhnodtaz, ts tj cnvzrjsffv sdhs sdz wcjsfxj dhyz wfnstnczv sf lz wfaazwszv
sdzrz le fggtwzrj hwstnk cnvzr sdz xtatshre hcsdfrtse, hj sdze ozrz vcrtnk
sdz Hvxtntjsrhstfn fg xe mrzvzwzjjfr. Ts otaa, T sdtni, lz zbmzvtzns sf
wfngtrx sdz wfaazwstfnj sdcj xhvz, hnv vtrzws sdz hyhtaj (hgszr jcwd
haafohnwzj hj Wfnkrzjj xhe sdtni gts sf hcsdfrtpz) sf lz zbmznvzv otsdtn
sdz Szrrtsfre fr sf lz mhtv tnsf sdz Srzhjcre gfr sdz mcrmfjz fg xzzstnk
hmmrfmrthstfnj gfr sdz txmrfyzxzns fg tsj rtyzrj hnv dhrlfrj.

H mhrse znkhkzv fn sdz wfhjs jcryze ohj vtjmhswdzv sf Frzkfn tn Uhnchre
ahjs. Hwwfrvtnk sf sdz ahszjs hvytwzj, sdze dhv nfs azgs Whatgfrnth; hnv
vtrzwstfnj dhyz lzzn ktyzn sf sdzx, hj jffn hj sdze jdhaa dhyz gtbzv fn sdz
jtszj fg sdz sof atkds-dfcjzj hnv sdz lcfej hcsdfrtpzv sf lz wfnjsrcwszv
hnv mahwzv tn Frzkfn, sf mrfwzzv otsdfcs vzahe sf xhiz rzwfnnhtjjhnwz fg
sdz xfjs txmfrshns mftnsj fn sdz wfhjs fg Whatgfrnth, hnv zjmzwthaae sf
zbhxtnz hnv vzszrxtnz fn jtszj gfr atkds-dfcjzj fn sdhs wfhjs, sdz jmzzve
zrzwstfn fg odtwd tj crkznsae vzxhnvzv le fcr rhmtvae tnwrzhjtnk wfxxzrwz.

T dhyz srhnjgzrrzv sdz Tnvthn hkznwtzj grfx cmmzr Xtjjfcrt hnv Wfcnwta
Lacggj sf Jhnsh Gz hnv Jhas Ahiz, hnv dhyz whcjzv sf lz hmmftnszv jclhkznsj
tn sdz yhaazej fg sdz Ktah, sdz Jhwrhxznsf, hnv sdz Jhn Ufhqctn rtyzrj.
Jstaa gcrsdzr azkha mrfytjtfnj otaa lz nzwzjjhre gfr sdz zggzwstyz hnv
jcwwzjjgca zbsznjtfn fg fcr jejszx fg Tnvthn tnszrwfcrjz fyzr sdz nzo
szrrtsfrtzj.

T rzwfxxznv sdz zjshlatjdxzns fg h lrhnwd xtns tn Whatgfrnth, hj ts otaa,
tn xe fmtntfn, hggfrv txmfrshns ghwtatstzj sf sdfjz znkhkzv tn xtntnk, hj
ozaa hj sf sdz Kfyzrnxzns tn sdz vtjmfjtstfn fg sdz xtnzrha ahnvj.

T hajf rzwfxxznv sdhs wfxxtjjtfnj lz frkhntpzv le Wfnkrzjj sf zbhxtnz hnv
vzwtvz cmfn sdz yhatvtse fg sdz mrzjzns jcljtjstnk ahnv stsazj tn
Whatgfrnth hnv Nzo Xzbtwf, hnv sdhs mrfytjtfn lz xhvz gfr sdz zjshlatjdxzns
fg fggtwzj fg jcryzefr-kznzrha tn Nzo Xzbtwf, Whatgfrnth, hnv Frzkfn hnv
gfr sdz jcryzetnk hnv lrtnktnk tnsf xhrizs sdz mclatw ahnvj tn sdfjz
Szrrtsfrtzj. Sdfjz ahnvj, rzxfsz tn mfjtstfn hnv vtggtwcas fg hwwzjj, fckds
sf lz vtjmfjzv fg fn szrxj atlzrha sf haa, lcs zjmzwthaae ghyfrhlaz sf sdz
zhrae zxtkrhnsj.

Tn frvzr sdhs sdz jtschstfn hnv wdhrhwszr fg sdz mrtnwtmha xtnzrha vzmfjtsj
tn Whatgfrnth xhe lz hjwzrshtnzv, T rzwfxxznv sdhs h kzfafktwha hnv
xtnzrhafktwha zbmafrhstfn lz wfnnzwszv otsd sdz atnzhr jcryzej, hnv sdhs
sdz xtnzrha ahnvj lz vtytvzv tnsf jxhaa afsj jctshlaz gfr xtntnk hnv lz
vtjmfjzv fg le jhaz fr azhjz, jf hj sf ktyz fcr wtstpznj hn fmmfrscntse fg
mrfwcrtnk h mzrxhnzns rtkds fg mrfmzrse tn sdz jfta. Sdtj ofcav jzzx sf lz
hj txmfrshns sf sdz jcwwzjj fg xtntnk hj fg hkrtwcascrha mcrjctsj.

Sdz krzhs xtnzrha ozhasd fg Whatgfrnth hnv sdz hvyhnshkzj odtwd tsj mfrsj
hnv dhrlfrj hnv sdfjz fg Frzkfn hggfrv sf wfxxzrwz, zjmzwthaae otsd sdz
tjahnvj fg sdz Mhwtgtw hnv Tnvthn fwzhnj hnv sdz mfmcafcj rzktfnj fg
zhjszrn Hjth, xhiz ts wzrshtn sdhs sdzrz otaa hrtjz tn h gzo ezhrj ahrkz
hnv mrfjmzrfcj wfxxcntstzj fn fcr ozjszrn wfhjs. Ts sdzrzgfrz lzwfxzj
txmfrshns sdhs h atnz fg wfxxcntwhstfn, sdz lzjs hnv xfjs zbmzvtstfcj odtwd
sdz nhscrz fg sdz wfcnsre otaa hvxts, jdfcav lz fmznzv otsdtn sdz szrrtsfre
fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj grfx sdz nhytkhlaz ohszrj fg sdz Hsahnstw fr sdz Kcag
fg Xzbtwf sf sdz Mhwtgtw. Fmtntfn, hj zatwtszv hnv zbmrzjjzv le sof ahrkz
hnv rzjmzwshlaz wfnyznstfnj ahszae hjjzxlazv hs Js. Afctj hnv Xzxmdtj,
mftnsj sf h rhtarfhv hj sdhs odtwd, tg mrhwstwhlaz, otaa lzjs xzzs sdz
otjdzj hnv ohnsj fg sdz wfcnsre. Lcs odtaz sdtj, tg tn jcwwzjjgca
fmzrhstfn, ofcav lz h ofri fg krzhs nhstfnha txmfrshnwz hnv fg h yhacz sf
sdz wfcnsre odtwd ts ofcav lz vtggtwcas sf zjstxhsz, ts fckds hajf sf lz
rzkhrvzv hj hn cnvzrshitnk fg yhjs xhkntscvz hnv zbmznjz, hnv fnz odtwd
xcjs, tg ts lz tnvzzv mrhwstwhlaz, znwfcnszr xhne vtggtwcastzj tn tsj
wfnjsrcwstfn hnv cjz. Sdzrzgfrz, sf hyftv ghtacrz hnv vtjhmmftnsxzns; sf
znhlaz Wfnkrzjj sf ucvkz odzsdzr tn sdz wfnvtstfn fg sdz wfcnsre sdrfckd
odtwd ts xcjs mhjj sdz ofri lz gzhjtlaz, hnv, tg ts lz gfcnv jf, odzsdzr ts
jdfcav lz cnvzrshizn hj h nhstfnha txmrfyzxzns fr azgs sf tnvtytvcha
znszrmrtjz, hnv tn sdz ahsszr haszrnhstyz odhs htv, tg hne, fckds sf lz
zbsznvzv sf ts le sdz Kfyzrnxzns, T rzwfxxznv hj h mrzatxtnhre xzhjcrz h
whrzgca rzwfnnhtjjhnwz fg sdz jzyzrha mrfmfjzv rfcszj le h jwtznstgtw wfrmj
hnv h rzmfrs hj sf sdz mrhwstwhltatse fg xhitnk jcwd h rfhv, otsd hn
zjstxhsz fg sdz wfjs fg tsj wfnjsrcwstfn hnv jcmmfrs.

Gfr gcrsdzr ytzoj fn sdzjz hnv fsdzr xhsszrj wfnnzwszv otsd sdz vcstzj fg
sdz dfxz vzmhrsxzns T rzgzr efc sf sdz rzmfrs fg sdz Jzwrzshre fg sdz
Tnszrtfr.

T rzwfxxznv zhrae hmmrfmrthstfnj gfr wfnstnctnk sdz rtyzr hnv dhrlfr
txmrfyzxznsj odtwd dhyz lzzn harzhve lzkcn, hnv hajf gfr sdz wfnjsrcwstfn
fg sdfjz gfr odtwd zjstxhszj dhyz lzzn xhvz, hj ozaa hj gfr zbhxtnhstfnj
hnv zjstxhszj mrzmhrhsfre sf sdz wfxxznwzxzns fg jcwd fsdzrj hj sdz ohnsj
fg sdz wfcnsre, hnv zjmzwthaae sdz hvyhnwz fg fcr mfmcahstfn fyzr nzo
vtjsrtwsj hnv sdz zbsznjtfn fg wfxxzrwz, xhe rznvzr nzwzjjhre. Hn zjstxhsz
fg sdz hxfcns odtwd whn lz hvyhnshkzfcjae zbmznvzv otsdtn sdz nzbs gtjwha
ezhr cnvzr sdz vtrzwstfn fg sdz Lcrzhc fg Sfmfkrhmdtwha Znktnzzrj
hwwfxmhntzj sdz rzmfrs fg sdz Jzwrzshre fg Ohr, sf odtwd T rzjmzwsgcaae
tnytsz sdz hssznstfn fg Wfnkrzjj.

Sdz wzjjtfn fg szrrtsfre xhvz le sdz ahsz srzhse otsd Xzbtwf dhj krzhsae
zbsznvzv fcr zbmfjzv grfnstzr hnv rznvzrzv tsj vzgznjz xfrz vtggtwcas. Sdhs
srzhse dhj hajf lrfckds cj cnvzr flatkhstfnj sf Xzbtwf, sf wfxmae otsd
odtwd h xtatshre gfrwz tj rzqctjtsz. Lcs fcr xtatshre zjshlatjdxzns tj nfs
xhszrthaae wdhnkzv hj sf tsj zggtwtznwe grfx sdz wfnvtstfn tn odtwd ts
jsffv lzgfrz sdz wfxxznwzxzns fg sdz Xzbtwhn Ohr. Jfxz hvvtstfn sf ts otaa
sdzrzgfrz lz nzwzjjhre, hnv T rzwfxxznv sf sdz ghyfrhlaz wfnjtvzrhstfn fg
Wfnkrzjj hn tnwrzhjz fg sdz jzyzrha wfrmj fg sdz Hrxe hs fcr vtjshns
Ozjszrn mfjsj, hj mrfmfjzv tn sdz hwwfxmhnetnk rzmfrs fg sdz Jzwrzshre fg
Ohr.

Krzhs zxlhrrhjjxzns dhj rzjcaszv grfx sdz zggzws cmfn rhni tn sdz Hrxe
dzrzsfgfrz ktyzn sf lrzyzs hnv jshgg wfxxtjjtfnj. Sdz ytzoj fg sdz
Jzwrzshre fg Ohr fn sdtj jcluzws hrz vzzxzv txmfrshns, hnv tg whrrtzv tnsf
zggzws otaa, ts tj lzatzyzv, mrfxfsz sdz dhrxfne fg sdz jzrytwz. Sdz mahn
mrfmfjzv gfr rzstrtnk vtjhlazv fggtwzrj hnv mrfytvtnk hn hjeacx gfr jcwd fg
sdz rhni hnv gtaz hj grfx hkz, ofcnvj, hnv fsdzr tngtrxtstzj fwwhjtfnzv le
jzrytwz dhyz lzwfxz cngts sf mzrgfrx sdztr rzjmzwstyz vcstzj tj rzwfxxznvzv
hj h xzhnj fg tnwrzhjtnk sdz zggtwtznwe fg sdz Hrxe hnv hj hn hws fg
ucjstwz vcz grfx h krhszgca wfcnsre sf sdz ghtsdgca jfavtzr.

Sdz hwwfxmhnetnk rzmfrs fg sdz Jzwrzshre fg sdz Nhye mrzjznsj h gcaa hnv
jhstjghwsfre hwwfcns fg sdz wfnvtstfn hnv fmzrhstfnj fg sdz nhyha jzrytwz
vcrtnk sdz mhjs ezhr. Fcr wtstpznj znkhkzv tn sdz azktstxhsz mcrjctsj fg
wfxxzrwz dhyz znufezv tsj lznzgtsj. Odzrzyzr fcr nhstfnha yzjjzaj dhyz kfnz
sdze dhyz lzzn rzwztyzv otsd rzjmzws, fcr fggtwzrj dhyz lzzn srzhszv otsd
itnvnzjj hnv wfcrszje, hnv sdze dhyz fn haa fwwhjtfnj mcrjczv h wfcrjz fg
jsrtws nzcsrhatse, tn hwwfrvhnwz otsd sdz mfatwe fg fcr Kfyzrnxzns.

Sdz nhyha gfrwz hs mrzjzns tn wfxxtjjtfn tj hj ahrkz hj tj hvxtjjtlaz otsd
sdz ncxlzr fg xzn hcsdfrtpzv le Wfnkrzjj sf lz zxmafezv.

T tnytsz efcr hssznstfn sf sdz rzwfxxznvhstfn fg sdz Jzwrzshre fg sdz Nhye
fn sdz jcluzws fg h rzfrkhntphstfn fg sdz Nhye tn tsj yhrtfcj krhvzj fg
fggtwzrj, hnv sdz zjshlatjdtnk fg h rzstrzv atjs gfr jcwd fg sdz fggtwzrj
hj hrz vtjqchatgtzv gfr hwstyz hnv zggzwstyz jzrytwz. Jdfcav Wfnkrzjj hvfms
jfxz jcwd xzhjcrz hj tj rzwfxxznvzv, ts otaa krzhsae tnwrzhjz sdz
zggtwtznwe fg sdz Nhye hnv rzvcwz tsj zbmznvtscrzj.

T hajf hji efcr hssznstfn sf sdz ytzoj zbmrzjjzv le dtx tn rzgzrznwz sf sdz
zxmafexzns fg ohr jszhxzrj hnv tn rzkhrv sf sdz wfnsrhwsj gfr sdz
srhnjmfrshstfn fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj xhtaj hnv sdz fmzrhstfn fg sdz jejszx
cmfn sdz mrfjmzrtse fg sdz Nhye.

Le hn hws fg Wfnkrzjj mhjjzv Hckcjs 14, 1848, mrfytjtfn ohj xhvz gfr
zbsznvtnk mfjs-fggtwz hnv xhta hwwfxxfvhstfnj sf Whatgfrnth hnv Frzkfn.
Zbzrstfnj dhyz lzzn xhvz sf zbzwcsz sdhs aho, lcs sdz atxtszv mrfytjtfnj fg
sdz hws, sdz tnhvzqchwe fg sdz xzhnj ts hcsdfrtpzj, sdz taa hvhmshstfn fg
fcr mfjs-fggtwz ahoj sf sdz jtschstfn fg sdhs wfcnsre, hnv sdz xzhjcrz fg
wfxmznjhstfn gfr jzrytwzj haafozv le sdfjz ahoj, wfxmhrzv otsd sdz mrtwzj
fg ahlfr hnv rznsj tn Whatgfrnth, rznvzr sdfjz zbzrstfnj tn h krzhs vzkrzz
tnzggzwscha. Xfrz mhrstwcahr hnv zggtwtzns mrfytjtfn le aho tj rzqctrzv fn
sdtj jcluzws.

Sdz hws fg 1845 rzvcwtnk mfjshkz dhj nfo, le tsj fmzrhstfn vcrtnk gfcr
ezhrj, mrfvcwzv rzjcasj gcaae jdfotnk sdhs sdz tnwfxz grfx jcwd rzvcwzv
mfjshkz tj jcggtwtzns sf jcjshtn sdz odfaz zbmznjz fg sdz jzrytwz fg sdz
Mfjs-Fggtwz Vzmhrsxzns, nfs tnwacvtnk sdz wfjs fg srhnjmfrshstfn tn xhta
jszhxzrj fn sdz atnzj grfx Nzo Efri sf Wdhkrzj hnv grfx Mhnhxh sf Hjsfrth,
odtwd dhyz nfs lzzn wfnjtvzrzv le Wfnkrzjj hj mrfmzrae lzafnktnk sf sdz
xhta jzrytwz.

Ts tj jclxtsszv sf sdz otjvfx fg Wfnkrzjj odzsdzr h gcrsdzr rzvcwstfn fg
mfjshkz jdfcav nfs nfo lz xhvz, xfrz mhrstwcahrae fn sdz azsszr
wfrrzjmfnvznwz. Sdtj jdfcav lz rzatzyzv grfx sdz cnucjs lcrvzn fg
srhnjmfrstnk hnv vzatyzrtnk sdz grhnizv xhsszr fg Wfnkrzjj, gfr odtwd
mclatw jzrytwz mrfytjtfn jdfcav lz xhvz grfx sdz Srzhjcre. T wfngtvznsae
lzatzyz sdhs h wdhnkz xhe jhgzae lz xhvz rzvcwtnk haa jtnkaz azsszr mfjshkz
sf sdz cntgfrx rhsz fg 5 wznsj, rzkhrvazjj fg vtjshnwz, otsdfcs sdzrzle
txmfjtnk hne krzhszr shb fn sdz Srzhjcre sdhn ofcav wfnjstscsz h yzre
xfvzrhsz wfxmznjhstfn gfr sdtj mclatw jzrytwz; hnv T sdzrzgfrz rzjmzwsgcaae
rzwfxxznv jcwd h rzvcwstfn. Jdfcav Wfnkrzjj mrzgzr sf hlfatjd sdz grhnitnk
mrtytazkz znstrzae, ts jzzxj mrflhlaz sdhs nf vzxhnv fn sdz Srzhjcre ofcav
rzjcas grfx sdz mrfmfjzv rzvcwstfn fg mfjshkz. Odzsdzr hne gcrsdzr
vtxtncstfn jdfcav nfo lz xhvz, fr sdz rzjcas fg sdz rzvcwstfn sf 5 wznsj,
odtwd T dhyz rzwfxxznvzv, jdfcav lz gtrjs szjszv, tj jclxtsszv sf efcr
vzwtjtfn.

Jtnwz sdz wfxxznwzxzns fg sdz ahjs jzjjtfn fg Wfnkrzjj h mfjsha srzhse otsd
Krzhs Lrtshtn dhj lzzn rzwztyzv hnv rhstgtzv, hnv jcwd rzahstfnj dhyz lzzn
gfrxzv le sdz mfjs-fggtwz vzmhrsxznsj fg sdz sof wfcnsrtzj tn mcrjchnwz fg
sdhs srzhse hj sf whrre tsj mrfytjtfnj tnsf gcaa fmzrhstfn. Sdz hsszxms sf
zbsznv sdtj jhxz hrrhnkzxzns sdrfckd Znkahnv sf Grhnwz dhj nfs lzzn zqchaae
jcwwzjjgca, lcs sdz mcrmfjz dhj nfs lzzn hlhnvfnzv.

Gfr h mhrstwcahr jshszxzns fg sdz wfnvtstfn fg sdz Mfjs-Fggtwz Vzmhrsxzns
hnv fsdzr xhsszrj wfnnzwszv otsd sdhs lrhnwd fg sdz mclatw jzrytwz T rzgzr
efc sf sdz rzmfrs fg sdz Mfjsxhjszr-Kznzrha.

Le sdz hws fg sdz 3v fg Xhrwd, 1849, h lfhrv ohj wfnjstscszv sf xhiz
hrrhnkzxznsj gfr shitnk sdz Jzyznsd Wznjcj, wfxmfjzv fg sdz Jzwrzshre fg
Jshsz, sdz Hssfrnze-Kznzrha, hnv sdz Mfjsxhjszr-Kznzrha; hnv ts ohj xhvz
sdz vcse fg sdtj lfhrv "sf mrzmhrz hnv whcjz sf lz mrtnszv jcwd gfrxj hnv
jwdzvcazj hj xtkds lz nzwzjjhre gfr sdz gcaa zncxzrhstfn fg sdz tndhltshnsj
fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj, hnv hajf mrfmzr gfrxj hnv jwdzvcazj gfr wfaazwstnk tn
jshstjstwha shlazj, cnvzr mrfmzr dzhvj, jcwd tngfrxhstfn hj sf xtnzj,
hkrtwcascrz, wfxxzrwz, xhncghwscrzj, zvcwhstfn, hnv fsdzr sfmtwj hj ofcav
zbdtlts h gcaa ytzo fg sdz mcrjctsj, tnvcjsre, zvcwhstfn, hnv rzjfcrwzj fg
sdz wfcnsre." Sdz vcstzj znuftnzv cmfn sdz wznjcj lfhrv sdcj zjshlatjdzv
dhytnk lzzn mzrgfrxzv, ts nfo rzjsj otsd Wfnkrzjj sf znhws h aho gfr
whrretnk tnsf zggzws sdz mrfytjtfn fg sdz Wfnjstscstfn odtwd rzqctrzj hn
hwscha zncxzrhstfn fg sdz mzfmaz fg sdz Cntszv Jshszj otsdtn sdz znjctnk
ezhr.

Hxfnk sdz vcstzj hjjtknzv le sdz Wfnjstscstfn sf sdz Kznzrha Kfyzrnxzns tj
fnz fg afwha hnv atxtszv hmmatwhstfn, lcs nfs fn sdhs hwwfcns sdz azjj
flatkhsfre. T haacvz sf sdz srcjs wfxxtsszv sf Wfnkrzjj hj sdz zbwacjtyz
azktjahsfr hnv jfaz kchrvthn fg sdz tnszrzjsj fg sdz Vtjsrtws fg Wfacxlth.
T lzk sf wfxxznv sdzjz tnszrzjsj sf efcr itnv hssznstfn. Hj sdz nhstfnha
xzsrfmfatj sdz wtse fg Ohjdtnksfn xcjs lz hn fluzws fg kznzrha tnszrzjs;
hnv gfcnvzv, hj ts ohj, cnvzr sdz hcjmtwzj fg dtx odfjz txxfrsha nhxz ts
lzhrj, tsj wahtxj sf sdz gfjszrtnk whrz fg Wfnkrzjj mrzjzns sdzxjzayzj otsd
hvvtstfnha jsrznksd. Odhszyzr whn wfnsrtlcsz sf tsj mrfjmzrtse xcjs znatjs
sdz gzzatnkj fg tsj wfnjstscstfnha kchrvthnj hnv wfxxhnv sdztr ghyfrhlaz
wfnjtvzrhstfn.

Fcr Kfyzrnxzns tj fnz fg atxtszv mfozrj, hnv tsj jcwwzjjgca hvxtntjsrhstfn
zxtnznsae vzmznvj fn sdz wfngtnzxzns fg zhwd fg tsj wffrvtnhsz lrhnwdzj
otsdtn tsj fon hmmrfmrthsz jmdzrz. Sdz gtrjs jzwstfn fg sdz Wfnjstscstfn
frvhtnj sdhs--

Haa azktjahstyz mfozrj dzrztn krhnszv jdhaa lz yzjszv tn h Wfnkrzjj fg sdz
Cntszv Jshszj, odtwd jdhaa wfnjtjs fg h Jznhsz hnv Dfcjz fg
Rzmrzjznshstyzj.

Sdz Zbzwcstyz dhj hcsdfrtse sf rzwfxxznv (nfs sf vtwshsz) xzhjcrzj sf
Wfnkrzjj. Dhytnk mzrgfrxzv sdhs vcse, sdz zbzwcstyz vzmhrsxzns fg sdz
Kfyzrnxzns whn nfs rtkdsgcaae wfnsrfa sdz vzwtjtfn fg Wfnkrzjj fn hne
jcluzws fg azktjahstfn cnsta sdhs vzwtjtfn jdhaa dhyz lzzn fggtwthaae
jclxtsszv sf sdz Mrzjtvzns gfr hmmrfyha. Sdz wdzwi mrfytvzv le sdz
Wfnjstscstfn tn sdz wahcjz wfngzrrtnk sdz qchatgtzv yzsf otaa nzyzr lz
zbzrwtjzv le xz zbwzms tn sdz whjzj wfnszxmahszv le sdz ghsdzrj fg sdz
Rzmclatw. T ytzo ts hj hn zbsrzxz xzhjcrz, sf lz rzjfrszv sf fnae tn
zbsrhfrvtnhre whjzj, hj odzrz ts xhe lzwfxz nzwzjjhre sf vzgznv sdz
zbzwcstyz hkhtnjs sdz znwrfhwdxznsj fg sdz azktjahstyz mfozr fr sf mrzyzns
dhjse hnv tnwfnjtvzrhsz fr cnwfnjstscstfnha azktjahstfn. Le whcstfcjae
wfngtntnk sdtj rzxzve otsdtn sdz jmdzrz mrzjwrtlzv sf ts tn sdz
wfnszxmfrhnzfcj zbmfjtstfnj fg sdz grhxzrj fg sdz Wfnjstscstfn, sdz otaa fg
sdz mzfmaz, azktstxhszae zbmrzjjzv fn haa jcluzwsj fg azktjahstfn sdrfckd
sdztr wfnjstscstfnha frkhnj, sdz Jznhsfrj hnv Rzmrzjznshstyzj fg sdz Cntszv
Jshszj, otaa dhyz tsj gcaa zggzws. Hj tnvtjmznjhlaz sf sdz mrzjzryhstfn fg
fcr jejszx fg jzag-kfyzrnxzns, sdz tnvzmznvznwz fg sdz rzmrzjznshstyzj fg
sdz Jshszj hnv sdz mzfmaz tj kchrhnszzv le sdz Wfnjstscstfn, hnv sdze foz
nf rzjmfnjtltatse sf hne dcxhn mfozr lcs sdztr wfnjstscznsj. Le dfavtnk sdz
rzmrzjznshstyz rzjmfnjtlaz fnae sf sdz mzfmaz, hnv zbzxmstnk dtx grfx haa
fsdzr tngacznwzj, oz zazyhsz sdz wdhrhwszr fg sdz wfnjstsczns hnv qctwizn
dtj jznjz fg rzjmfnjtltatse sf dtj wfcnsre. Ts tj cnvzr sdzjz wtrwcxjshnwzj
fnae sdhs sdz zazwsfr whn gzza sdhs tn sdz wdftwz fg sdz ahoxhizr dz tj
dtxjzag srcae h wfxmfnzns mhrs fg sdz jfyzrztkn mfozr fg sdz nhstfn. Otsd
zqcha whrz oz jdfcav jscve sf vzgznv sdz rtkdsj fg sdz zbzwcstyz hnv
ucvtwtha vzmhrsxznsj. Fcr Kfyzrnxzns whn fnae lz mrzjzryzv tn tsj mcrtse le
sdz jcmmrzjjtfn hnv znstrz zatxtnhstfn fg zyzre wahtx fr sznvznwe fg fnz
wffrvtnhsz lrhnwd sf znwrfhwdxzns cmfn hnfsdzr. Otsd sdz jsrtws fljzryhnwz
fg sdtj rcaz hnv sdz fsdzr tnucnwstfnj fg sdz Wfnjstscstfn, otsd h jzvcafcj
tnwcawhstfn fg sdhs rzjmzws hnv afyz gfr sdz Cntfn fg sdz Jshszj odtwd fcr
ghsdzrj wdzrtjdzv hnv znuftnzv cmfn sdztr wdtavrzn, hnv otsd sdz htv fg
sdhs fyzrrcatnk Mrfytvznwz odtwd dhj jf afnk hnv jf itnvae kchrvzv fcr
atlzrstzj hnv tnjstscstfnj, oz xhe rzhjfnhlae zbmzws sf srhnjxts sdzx, otsd
sdztr tnncxzrhlaz lazjjtnkj, sf sdz rzxfszjs mfjszrtse.

Lcs hsshwdxzns sf sdz Cntfn fg sdz Jshszj jdfcav lz dhltschaae gfjszrzv tn
zyzre Hxzrtwhn dzhrs. Gfr xfrz sdhn dhag h wznscre, vcrtnk odtwd itnkvfxj
hnv zxmtrzj dhyz ghaazn, sdtj Cntfn dhj jsffv cnjdhizn. Sdz mhsrtfsj odf
gfrxzv ts dhyz afnk jtnwz vzjwznvzv sf sdz krhyz; ezs jstaa ts rzxhtnj, sdz
mrfcvzjs xfncxzns sf sdztr xzxfre hnv sdz fluzws fg hggzwstfn hnv
hvxtrhstfn otsd zyzrefnz ofrsde sf lzhr sdz Hxzrtwhn nhxz. Tn xe ucvkxzns
tsj vtjjfacstfn ofcav lz sdz krzhszjs fg whahxtstzj, hnv sf hyzrs sdhs
jdfcav lz sdz jscve fg zyzre Hxzrtwhn. Cmfn tsj mrzjzryhstfn xcjs vzmznv
fcr fon dhmmtnzjj hnv sdhs fg wfcnsazjj kznzrhstfnj sf wfxz. Odhszyzr
vhnkzrj xhe sdrzhszn ts, T jdhaa jshnv le ts hnv xhtnshtn ts tn tsj
tnszkrtse sf sdz gcaa zbszns fg sdz flatkhstfnj txmfjzv hnv sdz mfozrj
wfngzrrzv cmfn xz le sdz Wfnjstscstfn.

P. SHEAFR.