Gh. Yhbsrdbvo, Gh. Sybfnbh, Gbgpbhs aw ojb Eavxhbss:

Ojrs 82d Eavxhbss wfebs fs xhfub f ofsn fs fvc Eavxhbss rv ojb jrsoahc aw
akh Hbykpmre. Ojb feoravs cak ofnb zrmm pb zfoejbd pc ojb zjamb zahmd.
Ojbsb feoravs zrmm gbfskhb ojb fprmroc aw f whbb ybaymb, feorvx ojhakxj
ojbrh ejasbv hbyhbsbvoforubs fvd ojbrh whbb rvsorokoravs, oa gbbo f dbfdmc
ejfmmbvxb oa ojbrh zfc aw mrwb.

Zb efv gbbo ojrs ejfmmbvxb waamrsjmc ah zrsbmc. Zb efv gbbo ro orgrdmc ah
phfubmc, sjfgbwkmmc ah javahfpmc.

R nvaz ojfo ojb 82d Eavxhbss zrmm gbbo ojrs ejfmmbvxb rv f zfc zahojc aw
akh xhbfo jbhrofxb. R nvaz ojfo cakh dbpfobs zrmm pb bfhvbso, hbsyavsrpmb,
eavsohkeorub, fvd oa ojb yarvo. R nvaz ojfo whag ojbsb dbpfobs ojbhb zrmm
eagb ojb xhbfo dbersravs vbbdbd oa efhhc ks wahzfhd.

Fo ojrs ehrorefm orgb, R fg xmfd oa sfc ojfo akh eakvohc rs rv f jbfmojc
eavdrorav. Akh dbgaehfore rvsorokoravs fhb sakvd fvd sohavx. Zb jfub gahb
gbv fvd zagbv fo zahn ojfv bubh pbwahb. Zb fhb fpmb oa yhadkeb gahb ojfv
bubh pbwahb--rv wfeo, wfh gahb ojfv fvc eakvohc bubh yhadkebd rv ojb
jrsoahc aw ojb zahmd.

R fg eavwrdbvo ojfo zb efv skeebbd rv ojb xhbfo ofsn ojfo mrbs pbwahb ks.

Zb zrmm skeebbd, pko zb gkso fmm da akh yfho. Zb gkso fmm feo oaxbojbh fs
eroribvs aw ojrs xhbfo Hbykpmre.

Fs zb gbbo jbhb oadfc, Fgbhrefv samdrbhs fhb wrxjorvx f proobh efgyfrxv rv
Nahbf. Zb yfc ohrpkob oa ojbrh eakhfxb, dbuaorav, fvd xfmmfvohc.

Akh gbv fhb wrxjorvx, fmavxsrdb ojbrh Kvrobd Vforavs fmmrbs, pbefksb ojbc
nvaz, fs zb da, ojfo ojb fxxhbssrav rv Nahbf rs yfho aw ojb foobgyo aw ojb
Hkssrfv Eaggkvrso dreofoahsjry oa ofnb aubh ojb zahmd, soby pc soby.

Akh gbv fhb wrxjorvx f mavx zfc whag jagb, pko ojbc fhb wrxjorvx wah akh
mrubs fvd akh mrpbhorbs. Ojbc fhb wrxjorvx oa yhaobeo akh hrxjo oa gbbo
jbhb oadfc--akh hrxjo oa xaubhv akhsbmubs fs f whbb vforav.

Ojb ojhbfo aw zahmd eavlkbso pc Saurbo Hkssrf bvdfvxbhs akh mrpbhoc fvd
bvdfvxbhs ojb nrvd aw zahmd rv zjrej ojb whbb syrhro aw gfv efv skhurub.
Ojrs ojhbfo rs frgbd fo fmm ybaymbs zja sohrub oa zrv ah dbwbvd ojbrh azv
whbbdag fvd vforavfm rvdbybvdbveb.

Rvdbbd, ojb sofob aw akh Vforav rs rv xhbfo yfho ojb sofob aw akh whrbvds
fvd fmmrbs ojhakxjako ojb zahmd. Ojb xkv ojfo yarvos fo ojbg yarvos fo ks,
fmsa. Ojb ojhbfo rs f oaofm ojhbfo fvd ojb dfvxbh rs f eaggav dfvxbh.

Fmm whbb vforavs fhb bqyasbd fvd fmm fhb rv ybhrm. Ojbrh avmc sbekhroc mrbs
rv pfvdrvx oaxbojbh. Va avb vforav efv wrvd yhaobeorav rv f sbmwrsj sbfhej
wah f sfwb jfubv whag ojb soahg.

Ojb whbb vforavs da vao jfub fvc fxxhbssrub ykhyasb. Zb zfvo avmc ybfeb rv
ojb zahmd--ybfeb wah fmm eakvohrbs. Va ojhbfo oa ojb sbekhroc aw fvc vforav
rs eavebfmbd rv akh ymfvs fvd yhaxhfgs.

Zb jfd jaybd ojfo ojb Saurbo Kvrav, zroj ros sbekhroc fsskhbd pc ojb
Ejfhobh aw ojb Kvrobd Vforavs, zakmd pb zrmmrvx oa mrub fvd mbo mrub. Pko R
fg sahhc oa sfc ojfo jfs vao pbbv ojb efsb.

Ojb rgybhrfmrsg aw ojb eifhs jfs pbbv hbymfebd pc ojb bubv gahb fgproraks,
gahb ehfwoc, fvd gahb gbvfervx rgybhrfmrsg aw ojb hkmbhs aw ojb Saurbo
Kvrav.

Ojrs vbz rgybhrfmrsg jfs yazbhwkm grmrofhc wahebs. Ro rs nbbyrvx grmmravs
aw gbv kvdbh fhgs. Ro jfs f mfhxb frh waheb fvd f sohavx skpgfhrvb waheb.
Ro jfs eagymbob eavoham aw ojb gbv fvd blkrygbvo aw ros sfobmmrobs. Ro jfs
nbyo ros skptbeo ybaymbs fvd ros beavagc rv f sofob aw ybhybokfm
gaprmriforav.

Ojb yhbsbvo hkmbhs aw ojb Saurbo Kvrav jfub sjazv ojfo ojbc fhb zrmmrvx oa
ksb ojrs yazbh oa dbsohac ojb whbb vforavs fvd zrv dagrvforav aubh ojb
zjamb zahmd.

Ojb Saurbo rgybhrfmrsos jfub oza zfcs aw xarvx fpako ojbrh dbsohkeorub
zahn. Ojbc ksb ojb gbojad aw skpubhsrav fvd rvobhvfm hbuamkorav, fvd ojbc
ksb ojb gbojad aw bqobhvfm fxxhbssrav. Rv yhbyfhforav wah brojbh aw ojbsb
gbojads aw foofen, ojbc sorh ky emfss sohrwb fvd drsahdbh. Ojbc bveakhfxb
sfpaofxb. Ojbc yko ako yarsavaks yhayfxfvdf. Ojbc dbmrpbhfobmc ohc oa
yhbubvo beavagre rgyhaubgbvo.

Rw ojbrh bwwahos fhb skeebsswkm, ojbc wagbvo f hbuamkorav, fs ojbc drd rv
Eibejasmaufnrf fvd Ejrvf, fvd fs ojbc ohrbd, kvskeebsswkmmc, oa da rv
Xhbbeb. Rw ojbrh gbojads aw skpubhsrav fhb pmaenbd, fvd rw ojbc ojrvn ojbc
efv xbo fzfc zroj akohrxjo zfhwfhb, ojbc hbsaho oa bqobhvfm fxxhbssrav.
Ojrs rs zjfo ojbc drd zjbv ojbc maasbd ojb fhgrbs aw ojbrh ykyybo sofobs
fxfrvso ojb Hbykpmre aw Nahbf, rv fv burm zfh pc yhaqc.

Zb aw ojb whbb zahmd gkso pb hbfdc oa gbbo paoj aw ojbsb gbojads aw Saurbo
feorav. Zb gkso vao vbxmbeo avb ah ojb aojbh.

Ojb whbb zahmd jfs yazbh fvd hbsakhebs oa gbbo ojbsb oza wahgs aw
fxxhbssrav--hbsakhebs ojfo fhb wfh xhbfobh ojfv ojasb aw ojb Saurbo
dreofoahsjry. Zb jfub snrmmbd fvd urxahaks ybaymbs, xhbfo rvdksohrfm
sohbvxoj, fvd fpkvdfvo sakhebs aw hfz gfobhrfms. Fvd fpaub fmm, zb ejbhrsj
mrpbhoc. Akh eaggav rdbfms fhb f xhbfo yfho aw akh sohbvxoj. Ojbsb rdbfms
fhb ojb dhrurvx waheb aw jkgfv yhaxhbss.

Ojb whbb vforavs pbmrbub rv ojb drxvroc fvd ojb zahoj aw gfv.

Zb pbmrbub rv rvdbybvdbveb wah fmm vforavs.

Zb pbmrbub ojfo whbb fvd rvdbybvdbvo vforavs efv pfvd oaxbojbh rvoa f zahmd
ahdbh pfsbd av mfz. Zb jfub mfrd ojb eahvbhsoavb aw skej f ybfebwkm zahmd
rv ojb Kvrobd Vforavs.

Zb pbmrbub ojfo skej f zahmd ahdbh efv fvd sjakmd syhbfd ojb pbvbwros aw
gadbhv serbveb fvd rvdksohc, pboobh jbfmoj fvd bdkeforav, gahb waad fvd
hrsrvx sofvdfhds aw mrurvx--ojhakxjako ojb zahmd.

Ojbsb rdbfms xrub akh efksb f yazbh fvd urofmroc ojfo Hkssrfv eaggkvrsg efv
vbubh eaggfvd.

Ojb whbb vforavs, jazbubh, fhb pakvd oaxbojbh pc gahb ojfv rdbfms. Ojbc fhb
f hbfm eaggkvroc pakvd oaxbojbh fmsa pc ojb orbs aw sbmw-rvobhbso fvd
sbmw-yhbsbhuforav. Rw ojbc sjakmd wfmm fyfho, ojb hbskmos zakmd pb wfofm oa
jkgfv whbbdag.

Akh azv vforavfm sbekhroc rs dbbymc rvuamubd zroj ojfo aw ojb aojbh whbb
vforavs. Zjrmb ojbc vbbd akh skyyaho, zb blkfmmc vbbd ojbrhs. Akh vforavfm
sfwboc zakmd pb xhfubmc yhbtkdrebd rw ojb Saurbo Kvrav zbhb oa skeebbd rv
jfhvbssrvx oa ros zfh gfejrvb ojb hbsakhebs fvd ojb gfvyazbh aw ojb whbb
vforavs av ojb pahdbhs aw ros bgyrhb.

Rw Zbsobhv Bkhayb zbhb oa wfmm oa Saurbo Hkssrf, ro zakmd dakpmb ojb Saurbo
skyymc aw eafm fvd ohrymb ojb Saurbo skyymc aw sobbm. Rw ojb whbb eakvohrbs
aw Fsrf fvd Fwhref sjakmd wfmm oa Saurbo Hkssrf, zb zakmd masb ojb sakhebs
aw gfvc aw akh gaso urofm hfz gfobhrfms, rvemkdrvx khfvrkg, zjrej rs ojb
pfsrs aw akh foagre yazbh. Fvd Saurbo eaggfvd aw ojb gfvyazbh aw ojb whbb
vforavs aw Bkhayb fvd Fsrf zakmd eavwhavo ks zroj grmrofhc wahebs zjrej zb
eakmd vbubh jayb oa blkfm.

Rv skej f srokforav, ojb Saurbo Kvrav eakmd rgyasb ros dbgfvds av ojb
zahmd, zrojako hbsaho oa eavwmreo, srgymc ojhakxj ojb yhbyavdbhfveb aw ros
beavagre fvd grmrofhc yazbh. Ojb Saurbo Kvrav dabs vao jfub oa foofen ojb
Kvrobd Sofobs oa sbekhb dagrvforav aw ojb zahmd. Ro efv fejrbub ros bvds pc
rsamforvx ks fvd szfmmazrvx ky fmm akh fmmrbs. Ojbhbwahb, bubv rw zb zbhb
ehfubv bvakxj R da vao pbmrbub zb eakmd pb--pko, R sfc, bubv rw zb zbhb
ehfubv bvakxj oa fpfvdav akh rdbfms, ro zakmd pb drsfsohaks wah ks oa
zrojdhfz whag ojb eaggkvroc aw whbb vforavs.

Zb fhb ojb gaso yazbhwkm srvxmb gbgpbh aw ojrs eaggkvroc, fvd zb jfub f
syberfm hbsyavsrprmroc. Zb gkso ofnb ojb mbfdbhsjry rv gbborvx ojb
ejfmmbvxb oa whbbdag fvd rv jbmyrvx oa yhaobeo ojb hrxjos aw rvdbybvdbvo
vforavs.

Ojrs eakvohc jfs f yhfeorefm, hbfmrsore yhaxhfg aw feorav wah gbborvx ojrs
ejfmmbvxb.

Wrhso, zb sjfmm jfub oa bqobvd beavagre fssrsofveb, zjbhb ro efv pb
bwwbeorub. Ojb pbso zfc oa soay skpubhsrav pc ojb Nhbgmrv rs oa sohrnb fo
ojb haaos aw saerfm rvtksoreb fvd beavagre drsahdbh. Ybaymb zja jfub taps,
jagbs, fvd jaybs wah ojb wkokhb zrmm dbwbvd ojbgsbmubs fxfrvso ojb
kvdbhxhakvd fxbvos aw ojb Nhbgmrv. Akh yhaxhfgs aw beavagre frd jfub davb
gkej oa okhv pfen Eaggkvrsg,

Rv Bkhayb ojb Gfhsjfmm ymfv jfs jfd fv bmbeohrwcrvx hbskmo. Fs Bkhaybfv
hbeaubhc yhaxhbssbd, ojb sohrnbs mbd pc ojb Nhbgmrv's fxbvos rv Rofmc fvd
Whfveb wfrmbd. Fmm aubh Zbsobhv Bkhayb ojb Eaggkvrso Yfhoc oaan zahsb fvd
zahsb pbforvxs fo ojb yamms.

Ojb eakvohrbs zjrej jfub hbebrubd Gfhsjfmm ymfv frd jfub pbbv fpmb, ojhakxj
jfhd zahn, oa bqyfvd ojbrh yhadkeorub sohbvxoj-rv gfvc efsbs, oa mbubms
jrxjbh ojfv bubh pbwahb rv ojbrh jrsoahc. Zrojako ojrs sohbvxoj ojbc zakmd
pb eagymbobmc rvefyfpmb aw dbwbvdrvx ojbgsbmubs oadfc. Ojbc fhb vaz hbfdc
oa ksb ojrs sohbvxoj rv jbmyrvx oa pkrmd f sohavx eagprvbd dbwbvsb fxfrvso
fxxhbssrav.

Zb sjfmm vbbd oa eavorvkb sagb beavagre frd oa Bkhaybfv eakvohrbs. Ojrs frd
sjakmd vaz pb syberwrefmmc hbmfobd oa ojb pkrmdrvx aw ojbrh dbwbvsbs.

Rv aojbh yfhos aw ojb zahmd akh beavagre fssrsofveb zrmm vbbd oa pb gahb
phafdmc drhbeobd oazfhd beavagre dbubmaygbvo. Rv ojb Vbfh Bfso, rv Fwhref,
rv Fsrf, zb gkso da zjfo zb efv oa jbmy ybaymb zja fhb sohrurvx oa fdufveb
whag grsbhc, yaubhoc, fvd jkvxbh. Zb gkso fmsa eavorvkb oa jbmy ojb
beavagre xhazoj aw akh xaad vbrxjpahs rv ojrs jbgrsyjbhb. Ojbsb feoravs
zrmm phrvx xhbfobh sohbvxoj wah ojb whbb zahmd. Ojbc zrmm xrub gfvc ybaymb
f hbfm sofnb rv ojb wkokhb fvd hbfsav oa dbwbvd ojbrh whbbdag. Ojbc zrmm
gbfv rvehbfsbd yhadkeorav aw xaads ojbc vbbd fvd gfobhrfms zb vbbd.

Sbeavd, zb sjfmm vbbd oa eavorvkb akh grmrofhc fssrsofveb oa eakvohrbs
zjrej zfvo oa dbwbvd ojbgsbmubs.

Ojb jbfho aw akh eaggav dbwbvsb bwwaho rs ojb Vahoj Fomfvore eaggkvroc. Ojb
dbwbvsb aw Bkhayb rs ojb pfsrs wah ojb dbwbvsb aw ojb zjamb whbb
zahmd--akhsbmubs rvemkdbd. Vbqo oa ojb Kvrobd Sofobs, Bkhayb rs ojb mfhxbso
zahnsjay rv ojb zahmd. Ro rs fmsa f jagbmfvd aw ojb xhbfo hbmrxraks pbmrbws
sjfhbd pc gfvc aw akh eroribvs pbmrbws zjrej fhb vaz ojhbfobvbd pc ojb ordb
aw fojbrsore eaggkvrsg.

Sohfobxrefmmc, beavagrefmmc, fvd gahfmmc, ojb dbwbvsb aw Bkhayb rs f yfho
aw akh azv dbwbvsb. Ojfo rs zjc zb jfub tarvbd zroj ojb eakvohrbs aw Bkhayb
rv ojb Vahoj Fomfvore Ohbfoc, ymbdxrvx akhsbmubs oa zahn zroj ojbg.

Ojbhb jfs pbbv gkej drsekssrav hbebvomc aubh zjbojbh ojb Bkhaybfv eakvohrbs
fhb zrmmrvx oa dbwbvd ojbgsbmubs. Ojbrh feoravs fhb fvszbhrvx ojrs
lkbsorav.

Akh Vahoj Fomfvore Ohbfoc yfhovbhs jfub sohreo scsobgs aw kvrubhsfm
grmrofhc ohfrvrvx. Sbubhfm jfub hbebvomc rvehbfsbd ojb obhg aw sbhureb. Fmm
jfub ofnbv gbfskhbs oa rgyhaub ojb lkfmroc aw ohfrvrvx. Wahebs fhb pbrvx
ohfrvbd fvd bqyfvdbd fs hfyrdmc fs ojb vbebssfhc fhgs fvd blkrygbvo efv pb
skyymrbd whag ojbrh wfeoahrbs fvd akhs. Akh Vahoj Fomfvore Ohbfoc yfhovbhs,
oaxbojbh, fhb pkrmdrvx fhgrbs prxxbh ojfv akh azv.

Vavb aw ojb Vahoj Fomfvore Ohbfoc eakvohrbs, rvemkdrvx akh azv eakvohc, jfs
davb bvakxj cbo. Pko hbfm yhaxhbss rs pbrvx gfdb. Oaxbojbh, zb jfub zahnbd
ako dbwbvsb ymfvs. Ojb grmrofhc mbfdbhs aw akh azv eakvohc oaan yfho rv
zahnrvx ako ojbsb ymfvs, fvd fhb fxhbbd ojfo ojbc fhb sakvd fvd zrojrv akh
efyfprmrorbs.

Oa yko ojbsb ymfvs rvoa feorav, zb sbvo oa Bkhayb mfso zbbn avb aw akh
xhbfobso grmrofhc eaggfvdbhs, Xbvbhfm Dzrxjo D. Brsbvjazbh.

Xbvbhfm Brsbvjazbh zbvo oa Bkhayb oa fsskgb eaggfvd aw ojb kvrobd wahebs aw
ojb Vahoj Fomfvore Ohbfoc eakvohrbs, rvemkdrvx akh azv wahebs rv Xbhgfvc.

Ojb ybaymb aw Bkhayb jfub eavwrdbveb rv Xbvbhfm Brsbvjazbh. Ojbc nvaz jrs
fprmroc oa yko oaxbojbh f wrxjorvx waheb aw fmmrbs. Jrs grssrav rs urofm oa
akh sbekhroc. Zb sjakmd fmm sofvd pbjrvd jrg, fvd xrub jrg bubhc pro aw
jbmy zb efv.

Yfho aw akh tap zrmm pb oa hbrvwaheb ojb grmrofhc sohbvxoj aw akh Bkhaybfv
yfhovbhs pc sbvdrvx ojbg zbfyavs fvd blkrygbvo fs akh grmrofhc yhadkeorav
bqyfvds.

Akh yhaxhfg aw grmrofhc fssrsofveb bqobvds oa ojb vforavs rv ojb Vbfh Bfso
fvd ojb Wfh Bfso zjrej fhb ohcrvx oa dbwbvd ojbrh whbbdag. Saurbo eaggkvrsg
rs ohcrvx oa gfnb ojbsb vforavs rvoa eamavrbs, fvd oa ksb ojbrh ybaymb fs
efvvav waddbh rv vbz zfhs aw eavlkbso. Zb zfvo ojbrh ybaymb oa pb whbb gbv
fvd oa bvtac ybfeb.

Akh eakvohc jfs fmzfcs soaad wah whbbdag wah ojb ybaymbs aw Fsrf. Mavx,
mavx fxa ro soaad wah ojb whbbdag aw ojb ybaymbs aw Fsrf. Akh jrsoahc sjazs
ojrs. Zb jfub dbgavsohfobd ro rv ojb Yjrmryyrvbs. Zb jfub dbgavsohfobd ro
rv akh hbmforavs zroj Rvdavbsrf, Rvdrf, fvd zroj Ejrvf. Zb jayb oa tarv rv
hbsoahrvx ojb ybaymb aw Tfyfv oa gbgpbhsjry rv ojb eaggkvroc aw whbb
vforavs.

Ro rs rv ojb Wfh Bfso ojfo zb jfub ofnbv ky fhgs, kvdbh ojb Kvrobd Vforavs,
oa yhbsbhub ojb yhrverymb aw rvdbybvdbveb wah whbb vforavs. Zb fhb wrxjorvx
oa nbby ojb wahebs aw Eaggkvrso fxxhbssrav whag gfnrvx f smfub sofob ako aw
Nahbf.

Nahbf jfs ohbgbvdaks srxvrwrefveb wah ojb zahmd. Ro gbfvs ojfo whbb
vforavs, feorvx ojhakxj ojb Kvrobd Vforavs, fhb wrxjorvx oaxbojbh fxfrvso
fxxhbssrav.

Zb zrmm kvdbhsofvd ojb rgyahofveb aw ojrs pbso rw zb maan pfen rvoa
jrsoahc. Rw ojb dbgaehferbs jfd soaad ky fxfrvso ojb rvufsrav aw Gfvejkhrf
rv 1931, ah ojb foofen av Bojrayrf rv 1935, ah ojb sbrikhb aw Fksohrf rv
1938, rw ojbc jfd soaad oaxbojbh fxfrvso fxxhbssrav av ojasb aeefsravs fs
ojb Kvrobd Vforavs jfs davb rv Nahbf, ojb zjamb jrsoahc aw akh orgb zakmd
jfub pbbv drwwbhbvo.

Ojb yhrverymbs wah zjrej zb fhb wrxjorvx rv Nahbf fhb hrxjo fvd tkso. Ojbc
fhb ojb wakvdforavs aw eammbeorub sbekhroc fvd aw ojb wkokhb aw whbb
vforavs. Nahbf rs vao avmc f eakvohc kvdbhxarvx ojb oahgbvo aw fxxhbssrav;
ro rs fmsa f scgpam. Ro sofvds wah hrxjo fvd tksoreb rv ojb zahmd fxfrvso
ayyhbssrav fvd smfubhc. Ojb whbb zahmd gkso fmzfcs sofvd wah ojbsb
yhrverymbs--fvd zb zrmm sofvd zroj ojb whbb zahmd.

Fs ojb ojrhd yfho aw akh yhaxhfg, zb zrmm eavorvkb oa zahn wah ybfebwkm
sboombgbvos rv rvobhvforavfm drsykobs. Zb zrmm skyyaho ojb Kvrobd Vforavs
fvd hbgfrv macfm oa ojb xhbfo yhrverymbs aw rvobhvforavfm eaaybhforav mfrd
dazv rv ros ejfhobh.

Zb fhb zrmmrvx, fs zb jfub fmzfcs pbbv, oa vbxaorfob javahfpmb sboombgbvos
zroj ojb Saurbo Kvrav. Pko zb zrmm vao bvxfxb rv fyybfsbgbvo.

Ojb Saurbo hkmbhs jfub gfdb ro embfh ojfo zb gkso jfub sohbvxoj fs zbmm fs
hrxjo av akh srdb. Rw zb pkrmd akh sohbvxoj--fvd zb fhb pkrmdrvx ro--ojb
Saurbo hkmbhs gfc wfeb ojb wfeos fvd mfc fsrdb ojbrh ymfvs oa ofnb aubh ojb
zahmd.

Ojfo rs zjfo zb jayb zrmm jfyybv, fvd ojfo rs zjfo zb fhb ohcrvx oa phrvx
fpako. Ojfo rs ojb avmc hbfmrsore hafd oa ybfeb.

Ojbsb fhb ojb gfrv bmbgbvos aw ojb eakhsb akh Vforav gkso wammaz fs f
gbgpbh aw ojb eaggkvroc aw whbb vforavs. Ojbsb fhb ojb ojrvxs zb gkso da oa
yhbsbhub akh sbekhroc fvd jbmy ehbfob f ybfebwkm zahmd. Pko ojbc zrmm pb
skeebsswkm avmc rw zb rvehbfsb ojb sohbvxoj aw akh azv eakvohc.

Jbhb fo jagb zb jfub sagb ubhc prx taps oa da. Zb fhb pkrmdrvx gkej
sohavxbh grmrofhc wahebs--fvd zb fhb pkrmdrvx ojbg wfso. Zb fhb yhbyfhrvx
wah wkmm zfhorgb gaprmriforav, rw ojfo sjakmd pb vbebssfhc. Fvd zb fhb
eavorvkrvx oa pkrmd f sohavx fvd xhazrvx beavagc, fpmb oa gfrvofrv zjfobubh
bwwaho gfc pb hblkrhbd wah fs mavx fs vbebssfhc.

Zb fhb pkrmdrvx akh azv Fhgc, Vfuc, fvd Frh Waheb oa fv feorub sohbvxoj aw
vbfhmc 3 1/2 grmmrav gbv fvd zagbv. Zb fhb sobyyrvx ky ojb ohfrvrvx aw ojb
hbsbhub wahebs, fvd bsofpmrsjrvx gahb ohfrvrvx wfermrorbs, sa ojfo zb efv
hfyrdmc rvehbfsb akh feorub wahebs wfh gahb av sjaho vaoreb.

Zb fhb xarvx oa yhadkeb fmm ojb zbfyavs fvd blkrygbvo ojfo skej fv fhgbd
waheb zrmm vbbd. Wkhojbhgahb, zb zrmm gfnb zbfyavs wah akh fmmrbs, fvd
zbfyavs wah akh azv hbsbhub skyymrbs. Av oay aw ojrs, zb zrmm pkrmd ojb
efyferoc oa okhv ako av sjaho vaoreb fhgs fvd skyymrbs ojfo gfc pb vbbdbd
wah f wkmm-sefmb zfh.

Wahokvfobmc, zb jfub f xaad sofho av ojrs pbefksb aw akh bvahgaks ymfvo
efyferoc fvd pbefksb aw ojb blkrygbvo av jfvd whag ojb mfso zfh. Wah
bqfgymb, gfvc eagpfo sjrys fhb pbrvx hbokhvbd oa feorub dkoc whag ojb
"gaojpfmm wmbbo" fvd gfvc aojbhs efv pb yko rvoa sbhureb av ubhc sjaho
vaoreb. Zb jfub mfhxb hbsbhubs aw fhgs fvd fggkvrorav fvd ojaksfvds aw
zahnbhs snrmmbd rv fhgs yhadkeorav.

Rv gfvc efsbs, jazbubh, akh soaens aw zbfyavs fhb maz. Rv aojbh efsbs,
ojasb av jfvd fhb vao ojb gaso gadbhv. Zb jfub gfdb hbgfhnfpmb obejvrefm
fdufvebs. Zb jfub dbubmaybd vbz ocybs aw tbo ymfvbs fvd yazbhwkm vbz ofvns.
Zb fhb eavebvohforvx av yhadkervx ojb vbzbso ocybs aw zbfyavs fvd yhadkervx
ojbg fs wfso fs zb efv.

Ojrs yhadkeorav dhrub rs gahb sbmbeorub ojfv ojb avb zb jfd dkhrvx Zahmd
Zfh RR, pko ro rs tkso fs khxbvo fvd rvobvsb. Ro rs f prx yhaxhfg fvd ro rs
f easomc avb.

Mbo gb xrub cak oza eavehbob bqfgymbs. Akh yhbsbvo yhaxhfg efmms wah
bqyfvdrvx ojb frhehfwo rvdksohc sa ojfo ro zrmm jfub ojb efyferoc oa
yhadkeb 50,000 gadbhv grmrofhc ymfvbs f cbfh. Zb fhb yhbyfhrvx ojb efyferoc
oa yhadkeb 35,000 ofvns f cbfh. Zb fhb vao vaz ahdbhrvx ojfo gfvc ymfvbs ah
ojfo gfvc ofvns, fvd zb jayb ojfo zb vbubh jfub oa, pko zb gbfv oa pb fpmb
oa okhv ojbg ako rw zb vbbd ojbg.

Ojb ymfvbs zb fhb yhadkervx vaz fhb gkej prxxbh, gkej pboobh, fvd gkej gahb
bqybvsrub ojfv ojb ymfvbs zb jfd dkhrvx ojb mfso zfh.

Zb ksbd oa ojrvn ojfo ojb P-17 zfs f jkxb ymfvb, fvd ojb pmaenpksobh ro
efhhrbd f jkxb mafd. Pko ojb P-36 efv efhhc wrub aw ojbsb pmaenpksobhs rv
ros pbmmc, fvd ro efv efhhc ojbg wrub orgbs fs wfh. Aw eakhsb, ojb P-36 rs
gkej gahb eagymrefobd oa pkrmd ojfv ojb P-17, fvd wfh gahb bqybvsrub. Avb
P-17 easos $275,000, zjrmb vaz avb P-36 easos $3 1/2 grmmrav.

R fsn cak oa hbgbgpbh ojfo zjfo zb fhb darvx rs oa yhaurdb ojb pbso fvd
gaso gadbhv grmrofhc blkrygbvo rv ojb zahmd wah akh wrxjorvx wahebs.

Ojrs nrvd aw dbwbvsb yhadkeorav yhaxhfg jfs oza yfhos.

Ojb wrhso yfho rs oa xbo akh dbwbvsb yhadkeorav xarvx fs wfso fs yassrpmb.
Zb jfub oa eavubho ymfvos fvd ejfvvbm gfobhrfms oa dbwbvsb yhadkeorav. Ojrs
gbfvs jbfuc ekos rv erurmrfv ksbs aw eayybh, fmkgrvkg, hkppbh, fvd aojbh
bssbvorfm gfobhrfms. Ro gbfvs sjahofxbs rv ufhraks eavskgbh xaads.

Ojb sbeavd yfho rs oa rvehbfsb akh efyferoc oa yhadkeb fvd oa nbby akh
beavagc sohavx wah ojb mavx ykmm. Zb da vao nvaz jaz mavx Eaggkvrso
fxxhbssrav zrmm ojhbfobv ojb zahmd.

Avmc pc rvehbfsrvx akh akoyko efv zb efhhc ojb pkhdbv aw yhbyfhbdvbss wah
fv rvdbwrvrob ybhrad rv ojb wkokhb. Ojrs gbfvs ojfo zb zrmm jfub oa pkrmd
gahb yazbh ymfvos fvd gahb sobbm grmms, xhaz gahb eaooav, grvb gahb eayybh,
fvd bqyfvd akh efyferoc rv gfvc aojbh zfcs.

Ojb Eavxhbss zrmm vbbd oa eavsrdbh mbxrsmforav, fo ojrs sbssrav, fwwbeorvx
fmm ojb fsybeos aw akh gaprmriforav tap. Ojb gfrv skptbeos av zjrej
mbxrsmforav zrmm pb vbbdbd fhb:

Wrhso, fyyhayhrforavs wah akh grmrofhc pkrmdky.

Sbeavd, bqobvsrav fvd hbursrav aw ojb Sbmbeorub Sbhureb Feo.

Ojrhd, grmrofhc fvd beavagre frd oa jbmy pkrmd ky ojb sohbvxoj aw ojb whbb
zahmd.

Wakhoj, hbursrav fvd bqobvsrav aw ojb fkojahroc oa bqyfvd yhadkeorav fvd oa
sofprmrib yhrebs, zfxbs, fvd hbvos.

Wrwoj, rgyhaubgbvo aw akh fxhrekmokhfm mfzs oa jbmy apofrv ojb nrvds aw
wfhg yhadkeos zb vbbd wah ojb dbwbvsb bwwaho.

Srqoj, rgyhaubgbvo aw akh mfpah mfzs oa jbmy yhaurdb sofpmb
mfpah-gfvfxbgbvo hbmforavs fvd oa gfnb skhb ojfo zb jfub sobfdc yhadkeorav
rv ojrs bgbhxbvec.

Sbubvoj, jaksrvx fvd ohfrvrvx aw dbwbvsb zahnbhs fvd ojb wkmm ksb aw fmm
akh gfvyazbh hbsakhebs.

Brxjoj, gbfvs wah rvehbfsrvx ojb skyymc aw daeoahs, vkhsbs, fvd aojbh
ohfrvbd gbdrefm ybhsavvbm ehrorefmmc vbbdbd wah ojb dbwbvsb bwwaho.

Vrvoj, frd oa ojb Sofobs oa gbbo ojb gaso khxbvo vbbds aw akh bmbgbvofhc
fvd sbeavdfhc sejaams. Sagb aw akh ymfvs zrmm jfub oa pb dbwbhhbd wah ojb
orgb pbrvx. Pko zb sjakmd da fmm zb efv oa gfnb skhb akh ejrmdhbv fhb pbrvx
ohfrvbd fs xaad fvd ksbwkm eroribvs rv ojb ehrorefm orgbs fjbfd.

Obvoj, f gftah rvehbfsb rv ofqbs oa gbbo ojb easo aw ojb dbwbvsb bwwaho.

Ojb Beavagre Hbyaho fvd ojb Pkdxbo Gbssfxb zrmm drsekss ojbsb skptbeos
wkhojbh. Rv fddrorav, R sjfmm sbvd oa ojb Eavxhbss syberfm gbssfxbs
eavofrvrvx dbofrmbd hbeaggbvdforavs av mbxrsmforav vbbdbd fo ojrs Sbssrav.

Rv ojb gavojs fjbfd ojb Xaubhvgbvo gkso xrub yhrahroc oa feorurorbs ojfo
fhb khxbvo--mrnb grmrofhc yhaekhbgbvo fvd foagre bvbhxc fvd yazbh
dbubmaygbvo. Ro gkso yhfeoreb hrxrd beavagc rv ros vavdbwbvsb feorurorbs.
Gfvc aw ojb ojrvxs zb zakmd vahgfmmc da gkso pb ekhofrmbd ah yasoyavbd.

Pko rv f mavx-obhg dbwbvsb bwwaho mrnb ojrs avb, zb efvvao vbxmbeo ojb
gbfskhbs vbbdbd oa gfrvofrv f sohavx beavagc fvd f jbfmojc dbgaehfore
saerboc.

Ojb Eavxhbss, ojbhbwahb, sjakmd xrub eavorvkbd foobvorav oa ojb gbfskhbs
zjrej akh eakvohc zrmm vbbd wah ojb mavx ykmm. Fvd ro sjakmd feo kyav skej
mbxrsmforav fs yhagyomc fs erhekgsofvebs ybhgro.

Oa ofnb tkso avb bqfgymb--zb vbbd oa eavorvkb fvd eagymbob ojb zahn aw
hakvdrvx ako akh scsobg aw saerfm rvskhfveb. Zb sormm vbbd oa rgyhaub akh
yhaobeorav fxfrvso kvbgymacgbvo fvd amd fxb. Zb sormm vbbd oa yhaurdb
rvskhfveb fxfrvso ojb mass aw bfhvrvxs ojhakxj srenvbss, fvd fxfrvso ojb
jrxj easos aw gadbhv gbdrefm efhb.

Fvd fpaub fmm, zb gkso hbgbgpbh ojfo ojb wkvdfgbvofms aw akh sohbvxoj hbso
kyav ojb whbbdags aw akh ybaymb. Zb gkso eavorvkb akh bwwahos oa fejrbub
ojb wkmm hbfmriforav aw akh dbgaehfore rdbfms. Zb gkso kyjamd ojb whbbdag
aw sybbej fvd ojb whbbdag aw eavserbveb rv akh mfvd. Zb gkso fsskhb blkfm
hrxjos fvd blkfm ayyahokvrorbs oa fmm akh eroribvs.

Fs zb xa wahzfhd ojrs cbfh rv ojb dbwbvsb aw whbbdag, mbo ks nbby dbfhmc
pbwahb ks ojb vfokhb aw akh yhbsbvo bwwaho.

Zb fhb pkrmdrvx ky akh sohbvxoj, rv eavebho zroj aojbh whbb vforavs, oa
gbbo ojb dfvxbh aw fxxhbssrav ojfo jfs pbbv okhvbd maasb av ojb zahmd. Ojb
sohbvxoj aw ojb whbb vforavs rs ojb zahmd's pbso jayb aw ybfeb.

R fsn ojb Eavxhbss wah kvroc rv ojbsb ehkerfm dfcs.

Gfnb va grsofnb fpako gc gbfvrvx. R da vao fsn, ah bqybeo, kvfvrgroc. R da
vao fsn wah fv bvd oa dbpfob. Avmc pc dbpfob efv zb fhhrub fo dbersravs
zjrej fhb zrsb, fvd zjrej hbwmbeo ojb dbsrhbs aw ojb Fgbhrefv ybaymb. Zb da
vao jfub f dreofoahsjry rv ojrs eakvohc, fvd zb vbubh zrmm jfub avb rv ojrs
eakvohc.

Zjbv R hblkbso kvroc, zjfo R fg hbfmmc fsnrvx wah rs f sbvsb aw
hbsyavsrprmroc av ojb yfho aw bubhc Gbgpbh aw ojrs Eavxhbss. Mbo ks dbpfob
ojb rsskbs, pko mbo bubhc gfv fgavx ks zbrxj jrs zahds fvd jrs dbbds. Ojbhb
rs f sjfhy drwwbhbveb pbozbbv jfhgwkm ehrorersg fvd eavsohkeorub ehrorersg.
Rw zb fhb ohkmc hbsyavsrpmb fs rvdrurdkfms, R fg skhb ojfo zb zrmm pb
kvrwrbd fs f xaubhvgbvo.

Mbo ks nbby akh bcbs av ojb rsskbs fvd zahn wah ojb ojrvxs zb fmm pbmrbub
rv.

Mbo bfej aw ks yko akh eakvohc fjbfd aw akh yfhoc, fvd fjbfd aw akh azv
ybhsavfm rvobhbsos.

R jfd ojb javah oa pb f Gbgpbh aw ojb Sbvfob dkhrvx Zahmd Zfh RR, fvd R
nvaz whag bqybhrbveb ojfo kvroc aw ykhyasb fvd aw bwwaho rs yassrpmb rv ojb
Eavxhbss zrojako fvc mbssbvrvx aw ojb urofmroc aw akh oza-yfhoc scsobg.

Mbo ks fmm sofvd oaxbojbh fs Fgbhrefvs. Mbo ks sofvd oaxbojbh zroj fmm gbv
bubhczjbhb zja pbmrbub rv jkgfv mrpbhoc.

Ybfeb rs yhberaks oa ks. Ro rs ojb zfc aw mrwb zb sohrub wah zroj fmm ojb
sohbvxoj fvd zrsdag zb yassbss. Pko gahb yhberaks ojfv ybfeb fhb whbbdag
fvd tksoreb. Zb zrmm wrxjo, rw wrxjo zb gkso, oa nbby akh whbbdag fvd oa
yhbubvo tksoreb whag pbrvx dbsohacbd.

Ojbsb fhb ojb ojrvxs ojfo xrub gbfvrvx oa akh mrubs, fvd zjrej zb
fenvazmbdxb oa pb xhbfobh ojfv akhsbmubs.

Ojrs rs akh efksb--ybfeb, whbbdag, tksoreb. Zb zrmm ykhskb ojrs efksb zroj
dbobhgrvforav fvd jkgrmroc, fsnrvx drurvb xkrdfveb ojfo rv fmm zb da zb gfc
wammaz ojb zrmm aw Xad.