Nr. Srwzjlwhx, Nr. Zswgvwr, Nwnbwrz ap xuw Qahkrwzz:

G iwgr gka J rwsarxwl xa xujz Qahkrwzz xugx xuw zxgxw ap xuw Chjah mgz
kaal. J gn ugssi xa bw gbfw xa rwsarx xa iac xalgi xugx xuw zxgxw ap xuw
Chjah qahxjhcwz xa bw kaal. Acr Rwscbfjq qahxjhcwz xa jhqrwgzw jh xuw
wheainwhx ap prwwlan mjxujh jxz barlwrz, ghl xa appwr zxrwhkxu ghl
whqacrgkwnwhx xa gff xuazw mua fadw prwwlan xurackuacx xuw marfl.

Lcrjhk xuw sgzx iwgr mw ugdw nglw haxgbfw srakrwzz jh zxrwhkxuwhjhk xuw
pachlgxjahz ap swgqw ghl prwwlan, gbragl ghl gx uanw.

Mw ugdw xgvwh jnsarxghx zxwsz jh zwqcrjhk xuw Harxu Gxfghxjq qannchjxi
gkgjhzx gkkrwzzjah. Mw ugdw qahxjhcwl acr zcqqwzzpcf zcssarx ap Wcraswgh
rwqadwri. Mw ugdw rwxcrhwl xa acr wzxgbfjzuwl safjqi ap wtsghljhk
jhxwrhgxjahgf xrglw xuracku rwqjsraqgf gkrwwnwhx. Mw ugdw zxrwhkxuwhwl acr
zcssarx ap xuw Chjxwl Hgxjahz.

Mujfw krwgx srabfwnz zxjff qahprahx cz, xuw krwgxwzx lghkwr ugz
rwqwlwl--xuw sazzjbjfjxi mujqu pgqwl cz 3 iwgrz gka xugx nazx ap Wcrasw ghl
xuw Nwljxwrrghwgh grwg njkux qaffgszw chlwr xaxgfjxgrjgh srwzzcrw. Xalgi,
xuw prww swasfwz ap xuw marfl ugdw hwm djkar ghl hwm uasw par xuw qgczw ap
swgqw.

Jh acr lanwzxjq gppgjrz, mw ugdw nglw haxgbfw gldghqwz xamgrl braglwr
assarxchjxi ghl g bwxxwr fjpw par gff acr qjxjywhz.

Mw ugdw nwx ghl rwdwrzwl xuw pjrzx zjkhjpjqghx lamhxcrh jh wqahanjq
gqxjdjxi zjhqw xuw mgr. Jh gqqansfjzujhk xujz, Kadwrhnwhx srakrgnz par
ngjhxgjhjhk wnsfainwhx ghl scrqugzjhk samwr ugdw bwwh ap xrwnwhlacz
bwhwpjx. Gz xuw rwzcfx ap xuwzw srakrgnz, ghl xuw mjzlan ghl kaal eclknwhx
ap acr bczjhwzznwh ghl marvwrz, ngear rwgleczxnwhxz ugdw bwwh nglw mjxuacx
mjlwzsrwgl zcppwrjhk.

Lcrjhk xuw sgzx iwgr, mw ugdw gfza nglw g kaal zxgrx jh sradjljhk uaczjhk
par fam-jhqanw kracsz; mw ugdw rgjzwl njhjncn mgkwz; mw ugdw kahw parmgrl
mjxu xuw lwdwfasnwhx ap acr hgxcrgf rwzacrqwz; mw ugdw kjdwh g krwgxwr
gzzcrghqw ap zxgbjfjxi xa xuw pgrnwr; ghl mw ugdw jnsradwl xuw arkghjygxjah
ghl wppjqjwhqi ap acr Kadwrhnwhx.

Xalgi, bi xuw krgqw ap Kal, mw zxghl g prww ghl srazswracz hgxjah mjxu
krwgxwr sazzjbjfjxjwz par xuw pcxcrw xugh ghi swasfw wdwr ugl bwparw jh xuw
ujzxari ap xuw marfl.

Mw grw ham, jh xujz iwgr ap 1950, hwgrjhk xuw njlsajhx ap xuw 20xu
qwhxcri.

Xuw pjrzx ugfp ap xujz qwhxcri mjff bw vhamh gz xuw nazx xcrbcfwhx ghl
wdwhxpcf swrjal jh rwqarlwl ujzxari. Xuw zmjpx sgqw ap wdwhxz sranjzwz xa
ngvw xuw hwtx 50 iwgrz lwqjzjdw jh xuw ujzxari ap ngh ah xujz sfghwx.

Xuw zqjwhxjpjq ghl jhlczxrjgf rwdafcxjah mujqu bwkgh xma qwhxcrjwz gka ugz,
jh xuw fgzx 50 iwgrz, qgckux cs xuw swasfwz ap xuw kfabw jh g qannah
lwzxjhi. Xma marfl-zugxxwrjhk mgrz ugdw sradwl xugx ha qarhwr ap xuw wgrxu
qgh bw jzafgxwl pran xuw gppgjrz ap nghvjhl.

Xuw ucngh rgqw ugz rwgquwl g xcrhjhk sajhx. Ngh ugz aswhwl xuw zwqrwxz ap
hgxcrw ghl ngzxwrwl hwm samwrz. Jp uw czwz xuwn mjzwfi, uw qgh rwgqu hwm
uwjkuxz ap qjdjfjygxjah. Jp uw czwz xuwn paafjzufi, xuwi ngi lwzxrai ujn.

Ngh nczx qrwgxw xuw nargf ghl fwkgf prgnwmarv par xuw marfl mujqu mjff
jhzcrw xugx ujz hwm samwrz grw czwl par kaal ghl hax par wdjf. Jh zugsjhk
xuw acxqanw, xuw swasfw ap xuw Chjxwl Zxgxwz mjff sfgi g fwgljhk rafw.

Gnahk gff xuw krwgx qughkwz xugx ugdw aqqcrrwl jh xuw fgzx 50 iwgrz, hahw
jz narw jnsarxghx xugh xuw qughkw jh xuw sazjxjah ap xuw Chjxwl Zxgxwz jh
marfl gppgjrz. Pjpxi iwgrz gka mw mwrw g qachxri lwdaxwl fgrkwfi xa acr amh
jhxwrhgf gppgjrz. Acr jhlczxri mgz kramjhk, ghl mw ugl hwm jhxwrwzxz jh xuw
Pgr Wgzx ghl jh xuw Qgrjbbwgh, bcx mw mwrw srjngrjfi qahqwrhwl mjxu xuw
lwdwfasnwhx ap dgzx grwgz ap acr amh qahxjhwhxgf xwrrjxari.

Xalgi, acr sascfgxjah ugz lacbfwl. Acr hgxjahgf sralcqxjah ugz rjzwh pran
gbacx $50 bjffjah, jh xwrnz ap xalgi'z srjqwz, xa xuw zxgkkwrjhk pjkcrw ap
$255 bjffjah g iwgr. Mw ugdw g narw sralcqxjdw wqahanjq zizxwn ghl g
krwgxwr jhlczxrjgf saxwhxjgf xugh ghi axuwr hgxjah ah xuw kfabw. Acr
zxghlgrl ap fjdjhk jz gh jhzsjrgxjah par gff axuwr swasfwz. Wdwh xuw
zfjkuxwzx qughkwz jh acr wqahanjq ghl zaqjgf fjpw ugdw xuwjr wppwqx ah
axuwr qachxrjwz gff grachl xuw marfl.

Acr xrwnwhlacz zxrwhkxu ugz brackux mjxu jx xrwnwhlacz rwzsahzjbjfjxjwz. Mw
ugdw nadwl pran xuw acxwr wlkw xa xuw qwhxwr ap marfl gppgjrz. Axuwr
hgxjahz faav xa cz par g mjzw wtwrqjzw ap acr wqahanjq ghl njfjxgri
zxrwhkxu, ghl par djkaracz zcssarx ap xuw jlwgfz ap rwsrwzwhxgxjdw
kadwrhnwhx ghl g prww zaqjwxi. Mw mjff hax pgjf xuwn.

Acr abewqxjdw jh xuw marfl jz swgqw. Acr qachxri ugz eajhwl mjxu axuwrz jh
xuw xgzv ap gqujwdjhk swgqw. Mw vham ham xugx xujz jz hax gh wgzi xgzv, ar
g zuarx ahw. Bcx mw grw lwxwrnjhwl xa zww jx xuracku. Baxu ap acr krwgx
safjxjqgf sgrxjwz grw qannjxxwl xa marvjhk xakwxuwr--ghl J gn zcrw xuwi
mjff qahxjhcw xa marv xakwxuwr--xa gqujwdw xujz whl. Mw grw srwsgrwl xa
lwdaxw acr whwrki ghl acr rwzacrqwz xa xujz xgzv, bwqgczw mw vham xugx acr
amh zwqcrjxi ghl xuw pcxcrw ap nghvjhl grw gx zxgvw.

Rjkux uwrw, J mghx xa zgi xugx ha ahw gssrwqjgxwz narw xugh J xuw
bjsgrxjzgh qaaswrgxjah jh parwjkh gppgjrz mujqu ugz bwwh wheaiwl bi xujz
glnjhjzxrgxjah.

Acr zcqqwzz jh marvjhk mjxu axuwr hgxjahz xa gqujwdw swgqw lwswhlz fgrkwfi
ah mugx mw la gx uanw. Mw nczx srwzwrdw acr hgxjahgf zxrwhkxu. Zxrwhkxu jz
hax zjnsfi g ngxxwr ap grnz ghl parqw. Jx jz g ngxxwr ap wqahanjq kramxu,
ghl zaqjgf uwgfxu, ghl djkaracz jhzxjxcxjahz, scbfjq ghl srjdgxw. Mw qgh
gqujwdw swgqw ahfi jp mw ngjhxgjh acr sralcqxjdw whwrki, acr lwnaqrgxjq
jhzxjxcxjahz, ghl acr pjrn bwfjwp jh jhljdjlcgf prwwlan.

Acr zcrwzx kcjlw jh xuw lgiz xugx fjw guwgl mjff bw xuw zsjrjx jh mujqu
xujz krwgx Rwscbfjq mgz rachlwl. Mw nczx ngvw acr lwqjzjahz jh xuw
qahdjqxjah xugx gff nwh grw qrwgxwl wocgf, xugx xuwi grw wocgffi whxjxfwl
xa fjpw, fjbwrxi, ghl xuw scrzcjx ap ugssjhwzz, ghl xugx xuw lcxi ap
kadwrhnwhx jz xa zwrdw xuwzw whlz.

Xujz qachxri ap acrz ugz wtswrjwhqwl nghi bfwzzjhkz, bcx hahw krwgxwr xugh
jxz lwljqgxjah xa xuwzw srjhqjsfwz. Gx wdwri sajhx jh acr ujzxari, xuwzw
jlwgfz ugdw zwrdwl xa qarrwqx acr pgjfcrwz ghl zuarxqanjhkz, xa zscr cz ah
xa krwgxwr wpparxz, ghl xa vwws qfwgrfi bwparw cz xuw srjngri scrsazw ap
acr wtjzxwhqw gz g hgxjah. Xuwi ugdw whzurjhwl par cz, g srjhqjsfw ap
kadwrhnwhx, xuw nargf jnswrgxjdw xa la eczxjqw, ghl xuw ljdjhw qannghl xa
nwh xa fadw ahw ghaxuwr.

Xuwzw srjhqjsfwz kjdw nwghjhk xa gff xugx mw la.

Jh parwjkh safjqi, xuwi nwgh xugx mw qgh hwdwr bw xafwrghx ap assrwzzjah ar
xirghhi. Xuwi nwgh xugx mw nczx xuram acr mwjkux ah xuw zjlw ap krwgxwr
prwwlan ghl g bwxxwr fjpw par gff swasfwz. Xuwzw srjhqjsfwz qahpjrn cz jh
qgrrijhk acx xuw zswqjpjq srakrgnz par swgqw mujqu mw ugdw gfrwgli bwkch.

Mw zugff qahxjhcw xa kjdw acr muafwuwgrxwl zcssarx xa xuw Chjxwl Hgxjahz.
Mw bwfjwdw xugx xujz arkghjygxjah qgh cfxjngxwfi sradjlw xuw prgnwmarv ap
jhxwrhgxjahgf fgm ghl nargfjxi mjxuacx mujqu nghvjhl qghhax zcrdjdw. Jx ugz
gfrwgli zwx cs hwm zxghlgrlz par xuw qahlcqx ap hgxjahz jh xuw Lwqfgrgxjah
ap Ucngh Rjkuxz ghl xuw Qahdwhxjah ah Kwhaqjlw. Jx jz nadjhk guwgl xa kjdw
nwghjhk xa xuw qahqwsx ap marfl braxuwruaal xuracku g mjlw dgrjwxi ap
qcfxcrgf, wqahanjq, ghl xwquhjqgf gqxjdjxjwz.

Xuw wdwhxz ap xuw sgzx iwgr gkgjh zuamwl xuw dgfcw ap xuw Chjxwl Hgxjahz jh
brjhkjhk gbacx xuw swgqwpcf gleczxnwhx ap xwhzw jhxwrhgxjahgf
qahxradwrzjwz. Jh Jhlahwzjg ghl jh Sgfwzxjhw xuw wpparxz ap xuw Chjxwl
Hgxjahz ugdw scx g zxas xa bfaalzuwl ghl sgdwl xuw mgi xa swgqwpcf
zwxxfwnwhxz.

Mw grw marvjhk xamgrl xuw xjnw muwh xuw Chjxwl Hgxjahz mjff qahxraf mwgsahz
ap ngzz lwzxrcqxjah ghl mjff ugdw xuw parqwz xa srwzwrdw jhxwrhgxjahgf fgm
ghl arlwr. Mujfw xuw marfl rwngjhz chzwxxfwl, uamwdwr, ghl gz fahk gz acr
amh zwqcrjxi ghl xuw zwqcrjxi ap xuw prww marfl rwocjrw, mw mjff ngjhxgjh g
zxrahk ghl mwff-bgfghqwl lwpwhzw arkghjygxjah. Xuw Zwfwqxjdw Zwrdjqw Zizxwn
jz gh wzzwhxjgf sgrx ap acr lwpwhzw sfghz, ghl jx nczx bw qahxjhcwl.

Chlwr xuw srjhqjsfwz ap xuw Chjxwl Hgxjahz Qugrxwr mw nczx qahxjhcw xa
zugrw jh xuw qannah lwpwhzw ap prww hgxjahz gkgjhzx gkkrwzzjah. Gx xuw fgzx
zwzzjah xujz Qahkrwzz fgjl xuw bgzjz par xujz eajhx wpparx. Mw ham nczx scx
jhxa wppwqx xuw qannah lwpwhzw sfghz xugx grw bwjhk marvwl acx.

Mw zugff qahxjhcw acr wpparxz par marfl wqahanjq rwqadwri, bwqgczw marfl
srazswrjxi jz xuw ahfi zcrw pachlgxjah ap g swrnghwhx swgqw.

Gz gh jnnwljgxw nwghz xa xujz whl mw nczx qahxjhcw acr zcssarx ap xuw
Wcraswgh rwqadwri srakrgn. Xujz srakrgn ugz gqujwdwl krwgx zcqqwzz jh xuw
pjrzx 2 iwgrz ap jxz aswrgxjah, bcx jx ugz hax iwx bwwh qansfwxwl. Jp mw
mwrw xa zxas xujz srakrgn ham, ar qrjssfw jx, eczx bwqgczw jx jz
zcqqwwljhk, mw zuacfl bw lajhk wtgqxfi mugx xuw whwnjwz ap lwnaqrgqi mghx
cz xa la. Mw zuacfl bw eczx gz paafjzu gz g ngh mua, par rwgzahz ap pgfzw
wqahani, pgjfwl xa scx g raap ah ujz uaczw gpxwr bcjfljhk xuw pachlgxjah
ghl xuw mgffz.

Marfl srazswrjxi gfza rwocjrwz xugx mw la gff mw qgh xa wtsghl marfl xrglw.
Gz g ngear zxws jh xujz ljrwqxjah mw zuacfl sransxfi eajh xuw Jhxwrhgxjahgf
Xrglw Arkghjygxjah. Xuw scrsazw ap xujz arkghjygxjah, mujqu xuw Chjxwl
Zxgxwz ugz bwwh parwnazx jh qrwgxjhk, jz xa wzxgbfjzu g qalw ap pgjr
srgqxjqw, ghl gh jhxwrhgxjahgf gcxuarjxi par gleczxjhk ljppwrwhqwz jh
jhxwrhgxjahgf qannwrqjgf rwfgxjahz. Jx jz gh wpparx xa srwdwhx xuw vjhl ap
ghgrqui ghl jrrwzsahzjbjfjxi jh marfl xrglw mujqu ljl za ncqu xa brjhk
gbacx xuw marfl lwsrwzzjah ap xuw 1930'z. Gh wtsghljhk marfl wqahani
rwocjrwz xuw jnsradwnwhx ap fjdjhk zxghlgrlz ghl xuw lwdwfasnwhx ap
rwzacrqwz jh grwgz muwrw ucngh sadwrxi ghl njzwri ham srwdgjf. Mjxuacx zcqu
jnsradwnwhx xuw rwqadwri ap Wcrasw ghl xuw pcxcrw ap acr amh wqahani mjff
hax bw zwqcrw. J crkw xugx xuw Qahkrwzz glasx xuw fwkjzfgxjah ham bwparw jx
xa sradjlw par jhqrwgzjhk xuw pfam ap xwquhjqgf gzzjzxghqw ghl qgsjxgf
jhdwzxnwhx jh chlwrlwdwfaswl rwkjahz.

Jx jz narw wzzwhxjgf ham xugh wdwr, jp xuw jlwgfz ap prwwlan ghl
rwsrwzwhxgxjdw kadwrhnwhx grw xa srwdgjf jh xuwzw grwgz, ghl sgrxjqcfgrfi
jh xuw Pgr Wgzx, xugx xuwjr swasfwz wtswrjwhqw, jh xuwjr amh fjdwz, xuw
bwhwpjxz ap zqjwhxjpjq ghl wqahanjq gldghqwz. Xujz srakrgn mjff rwocjrw xuw
nadwnwhx ap fgrkw gnachxz ap qgsjxgf pran xuw jhlczxrjgf hgxjahz, ghl
sgrxjqcfgrfi pran xuw Chjxwl Zxgxwz, xa sralcqxjdw czwz jh xuw
chlwrlwdwfaswl grwgz ap xuw marfl. Rwqwhx marfl wdwhxz ngvw sransx gqxjah
jnswrgxjdw.

Xujz srakrgn jz jh xuw jhxwrwzx ap gff swasfwz-ghl ugz haxujhk jh qannah
mjxu wjxuwr xuw afl jnswrjgfjzn ap xuw fgzx qwhxcri ar xuw hwm jnswrjgfjzn
ap xuw Qannchjzxz.

Acr gjn par g swgqwpcf, lwnaqrgxjq marfl ap prww swasfwz mjff bw gqujwdwl
jh xuw fahk rch, hax bi parqw ap grnz, bcx bi gh gsswgf xa xuw njhlz ghl
uwgrxz ap nwh. Jp xuw swgqw safjqi ap xuw lwnaqrgxjq hgxjahz jz xa bw
zcqqwzzpcf, xuwi nczx lwnahzxrgxw xugx xuw bwhwpjxz ap xuwjr mgi ap fjpw
qgh bw jhqrwgzwl ghl wtxwhlwl xa gff hgxjahz ghl gff rgqwz.

Jh xuw marfl xalgi mw grw qahprahxwl mjxu xuw lghkwr xugx xuw rjzjhk lwnghl
ap swasfw wdwrimuwrw par prwwlan ghl g bwxxwr fjpw ngi bw qarrcsxwl ghl
bwxrgiwl bi xuw pgfzw sranjzwz ap qannchjzn. Jh jxz rcxufwzz zxrckkfw par
samwr, qannchjzn zwjywz csah acr jnswrpwqxjahz, ghl xgvwz gldghxgkw ap xuw
lwfgiz ghl zwxbgqvz mujqu xuw lwnaqrgxjq hgxjahz wtswrjwhqw jh xuwjr wpparx
xa zwqcrw g bwxxwr fjpw par xuwjr qjxjywhz. Xujz qugffwhkw xa cz jz narw
xugh g njfjxgri qugffwhkw. Jx jz g qugffwhkw xa xuw uahwzxi ap acr
srapwzzjah ap xuw lwnaqrgxjq pgjxu; jx jz g qugffwhkw xa xuw wppjqjwhqi ghl
zxgbjfjxi ap acr wqahanjq zizxwn; jx jz g qugffwhkw xa xuw mjffjhkhwzz xa
marv mjxu axuwr swasfwz par marfl swgqw ghl par marfl srazswrjxi.

Par ni sgrx J mwfqanw xugx qugffwhkw. J bwfjwdw xugx acr qachxri, gx xujz
qrcqjgf sajhx jh marfl ujzxari, mjff nwwx xugx qugffwhkw zcqqwzzpcffi. J
bwfjwdw xugx, jh qaaswrgxjah mjxu xuw axuwr prww hgxjahz ap xuw marfl, mw
zugff wtxwhl xuw pcff bwhwpjxz ap xuw lwnaqrgxjq mgi ap fjpw xa njffjahz
mua la hax ham wheai xuwn, ghl srwzwrdw nghvjhl pran ljqxgxarzujs ghl
xirghhi.

J bwfjwdw xugx mw zugff zcqqwwl jh acr zxrckkfw par xujz swgqw, bwqgczw J
ugdw zwwh xuw zcqqwzz mw ugdw ugl jh acr amh qachxri jh paffamjhk xuw
srjhqjsfwz ap prwwlan. Adwr xuw fgzx 50 iwgrz, xuw jlwgfz ap fjbwrxi ghl
wocgf assarxchjxi xa mujqu xujz Hgxjah jz lwljqgxwl ugdw bwwh jhqrwgzjhkfi
rwgfjywl jh xuw fjdwz ap acr swasfw.

Xuw jlwgf ap wocgf assarxchjxi ha fahkwr nwghz zjnsfi xuw assarxchjxi mujqu
g ngh ugz xa gldghqw bwiahl ujz pwffamz. Zanw ap acr qjxjywhz la gqujwdw
krwgxwr zcqqwzz xugh axuwrz gz g rwmgrl par jhljdjlcgf nwrjx ghl wpparx,
ghl xujz jz gz jx zuacfl bw. Gx xuw zgnw xjnw acr qachxri nczx bw narw xugh
g fghl ap assarxchjxi par g zwfwqx pwm. Jx nczx bw g fghl ap assarxchjxi
par gff ap cz. Jh zcqu g fghl mw qgh kram ghl srazswr xakwxuwr.

Xuw zjnsfw xrcxu xugx mw qgh gff ka parmgrl xakwxuwr jz apxwh ocwzxjahwl bi
zwfpjzu ar zuarxzjkuxwl swrzahz. Jx jz zxrghkw xugx xujz jz za, par xujz
srasazjxjah jz za qfwgrfi lwnahzxrgxwl bi acr hgxjahgf ujzxari. Lcrjhk xuw
fgzx 50 iwgrz, par wtgnsfw, acr Hgxjah ugz kramh wharnaczfi jh ngxwrjgf
mwff-bwjhk. Xujz kramxu ugz qanw gbacx, hax bi qahqwhxrgxjhk xuw bwhwpjxz
ap acr srakrwzz jh xuw ughlz ap g pwm, bcx bi jhqrwgzjhk xuw mwgfxu ap xuw
krwgx bali ap acr Hgxjah ghl acr qjxjywhz.

Jh xuw fgzx 50 iwgrz xuw jhqanw ap xuw gdwrgkw pgnjfi ugz jhqrwgzwl za
krwgxfi xugx jxz bcijhk samwr ugz lacbfwl. Xuw gdwrgkw uacrz ap marv ugdw
lwqfjhwl pran 60 xa 40 g mwwv, xuw muafw uacrfi sralcqxjah ap xuw gdwrgkw
marvwr ugz xrjsfwl. Gdwrgkw mgkwz, gffamjhk par srjqw qughkwz, ugdw
jhqrwgzwl pran gbacx 45 qwhxz gh uacr xa $1.40 gh uacr.

Mw ugdw gqqansfjzuwl mugx xa wgrfjwr gkwz ap nghvjhl macfl ugdw bwwh g
njrgqfw--mw marv zuarxwr uacrz, mw sralcqw narw, ghl mw fjdw bwxxwr.

Jhqrwgzjhk prwwlan pran sadwrxi ghl lrclkwri ugz kjdwh g pcffwr nwghjhk xa
Gnwrjqgh fjpw. Acr swasfw grw bwxxwr wlcqgxwl; mw ugdw narw assarxchjxjwz
par xrgdwf ghl rwqrwgxjah ghl wheainwhx ap xuw grxz. Mw wheai narw swrzahgf
fjbwrxi jh xuw Chjxwl Zxgxwz xalgi xugh wdwr bwparw.

Jp mw qgh qahxjhcw jh xuw zsjrjx ap qaaswrgxjdw gldwhxcrw mujqu ugz ngrvwl
xuw rwqwhx iwgrz ap acr srakrwzz, mw qgh wtswqx pcrxuwr zqjwhxjpjq
gldghqwz, pcrxuwr jhqrwgzwz jh acr zxghlgrl ap fjdjhk, ghl g zxjff mjlwr
wheainwhx ap lwnaqrgxjq prwwlan.

Ha ahw, ap qacrzw, qgh parwxwff xuw pcxcrw wtgqxfi. Uamwdwr, jp mw gzzcnw
xugx mw zugff kram gz pgzx jh xuw pcxcrw gz mw ugdw kramh jh xuw sgzx, mw
qgh kwx g kaal jlwg ap uam ncqu acr qachxri zuacfl kram jh xuw hwtx 50
iwgrz.

Gx srwzwhx acr xaxgf hgxjahgf sralcqxjah jz $255 bjffjah g iwgr. Acr
marvjhk sascfgxjah ghl acr acxscx swr marvwr grw jhqrwgzjhk. Jp acr
sralcqxjdw samwr qahxjhcwz xa jhqrwgzw gx xuw zgnw rgxw gz jx ugz jhqrwgzwl
adwr xuw sgzx 50 iwgrz, acr xaxgf hgxjahgf sralcqxjah 50 iwgrz pran ham
mjff bw hwgrfi pacr xjnwz gz ncqu gz jx jz xalgi. Gffamjhk par xuw wtswqxwl
kramxu jh sascfgxjah, xujz macfl nwgh xugx xuw rwgf jhqanw ap xuw gdwrgkw
pgnjfi jh xuw iwgr 2000 G.L. macfl bw gbacx xurww xjnwz mugx jx jz xalgi.

Xuwzw grw wzxjngxwz ap mugx mw qgh la jh xuw pcxcrw, bcx mw qgh rwgqu xuwzw
uwjkuxz ahfi jp mw paffam xuw rjkux safjqjwz. Mw ugdw fwgrhwl bi bjxxwr
wtswrjwhqw xugx srakrwzz jz hax gcxangxjq--xugx mrahk safjqjwz fwgl xa
lwsrwzzjah ghl ljzgzxwr. Mw qghhax gqujwdw xuwzw kgjhz chfwzz mw ugdw g
zxgbfw wqahani ghl gdajl xuw qgxgzxrasuwz ap baan ghl bczx xugx ugdw zwx cz
bgqv jh xuw sgzx.

Xuwzw kgjhz qghhax bw gqujwdwl chfwzz acr bczjhwzznwh ngjhxgjh xuwjr zsjrjx
ap jhjxjgxjdw ghl whxwrsrjzw ghl aswrgxw jh g qanswxjxjdw wqahani. Xuwi
qghhax bw gqujwdwl chfwzz acr marvjhknwh ghl manwh ghl xuwjr chjahz uwfs xa
jhqrwgzw sralcqxjdjxi ghl abxgjh par fgbar g pgjr zugrw ap xuw bwhwpjxz ap
acr wqahanjq zizxwn. Xuwi qghhax bw gqujwdwl chfwzz mw ugdw g zxgbfw ghl
srazswracz gkrjqcfxcrw. Xuwi qghhax bw gqujwdwl chfwzz mw qahzwrdw ghl
lwdwfas acr hgxcrgf rwzacrqwz jh xuw scbfjq jhxwrwzx. Acr zizxwn mjff hax
marv chfwzz acr swasfw grw uwgfxui, mwff-wlcqgxwl, ghl qahpjlwhx ap xuw
pcxcrw. Jx mjff hax marv chfwzz gff qjxjywhz qgh sgrxjqjsgxw pcffi jh acr
hgxjahgf fjpw.

Jh gqujwdjhk xuwzw kgjhz xuw Kadwrhnwhx ugz g zswqjgf rwzsahzjbjfjxi xa
uwfs qrwgxw ghl ngjhxgjh xuw qahljxjahz mujqu mjff swrnjx xuw kramxu mw
vham jz sazzjbfw. Parwnazx gnahk xuwzw qahljxjahz jz xuw hwwl par g pgjr
ljzxrjbcxjah ap acr jhqrwgzjhk srazswrjxi gnahk gff xuw krwgx kracsz ap acr
sascfgxjah mua uwfs xa brjhk jx gbacx-fgbar, bczjhwzz, gkrjqcfxcrw.

Bczjhwzznwh nczx qahxjhcw xa ugdw xuw jhqwhxjdwz hwqwzzgri par jhdwzxnwhx
ghl par xuw lwdwfasnwhx ap hwm fjhwz ap whxwrsrjzw. Jh xuw pcxcrw kramxu ap
xujz qachxri, fjw sazzjbjfjxjwz par uchlrwlz ap xuaczghlz ap hwm ghl
jhlwswhlwhx bczjhwzzwz. Gz acr hgxjahgf sralcqxjah jhqrwgzwz, gz jx lacbfwz
ghl rwlacbfwz jh xuw hwtx 50 iwgrz, xuw hcnbwr ap jhlwswhlwhx ghl qanswxjhk
whxwrsrjzwz zuacfl gfza jhqrwgzw. Jp xuw hcnbwr lawz hax jhqrwgzw, acr
qahzxghxfi kramjhk wqahani mjff pgff chlwr xuw qahxraf ap g pwm lanjhghx
wqahanjq kracsz muazw samwrz mjff bw za krwgx xugx xuwi mjff bw g qugffwhkw
xa lwnaqrgxjq jhzxjxcxjahz.

Xa gdajl xujz lghkwr, mw nczx qcrb nahasafi ghl sradjlw gjlz xa jhlwswhlwhx
bczjhwzz za xugx jx ngi ugdw xuw qrwljx ghl qgsjxgf xa qanswxw jh g zizxwn
ap prww whxwrsrjzw. J rwqannwhl xugx xuw Qahkrwzz qansfwxw gqxjah gx xujz
zwzzjah ah xuw swhljhk bjff xa qfazw xuw faasuafwz jh xuw Qfgixah Gqx mujqu
ham swrnjx nahasafjzxjq nwrkwrz. J gfza uasw bwparw xujz zwzzjah jz adwr xa
xrghznjx xa xuw Qahkrwzz g zwrjwz ap srasazgfz xa zxrwhkxuwh xuw
ghxjnahasafi fgmz, xa gzzjzx zngff bczjhwzz, ghl xa whqacrgkw xuw kramxu ap
hwm whxwrsrjzwz.

Jh xuw qgzw ap fgbar, prww qaffwqxjdw bgrkgjhjhk nczx bw sraxwqxwl ghl
whqacrgkwl. Qaffwqxjdw bgrkgjhjhk jz hax ahfi g pchlgnwhxgf wqahanjq
prwwlan par fgbar. Jx jz gfza g zxrwhkxuwhjhk ghl zxgbjfjyjhk jhpfcwhqw par
acr muafw wqahani.

Xuw Pwlwrgf zxgxcxw ham kadwrhjhk fgbar rwfgxjahz jz schjxjdw jh scrsazw
ghl ahw-zjlwl jh aswrgxjah. Xujz zxgxcxw jz, ghl gfmgiz ugz bwwh,
jhqahzjzxwhx mjxu xuw srgqxjqw ap xrcw ghl wppwqxjdw qaffwqxjdw bgrkgjhjhk.
Jx zuacfl bw rwswgfwl ghl rwsfgqwl bi g fgm xugx jz pgjr xa gff ghl jh
ugrnahi mjxu acr lwnaqrgxjq jlwgfz.

G pcff chlwrzxghljhk ap xuw srabfwnz ap nalwrh fgbar rwfgxjahz jz ap zcqu
jnsarxghqw xugx J rwqannwhl xuw wzxgbfjzunwhx ap g fgbar wtxwhzjah zwrdjqw
xa whqacrgkw wlcqgxjahgf gqxjdjxjwz jh xujz pjwfl.

Ghaxuwr wzzwhxjgf par acr qahxjhcwl kramxu jz g zxgbfw ghl srazswracz
gkrjqcfxcrw. Par nghi iwgrz mw ugdw bwwh bcjfljhk g srakrgn xa kjdw xuw
pgrnwr g rwgzahgbfw nwgzcrw ap sraxwqxjah gkgjhzx xuw zswqjgf ugygrlz xa
mujqu uw jz wtsazwl. Xugx srakrgn mgz jnsradwl gx xuw fgzx zwzzjah ap xuw
Qahkrwzz. Uamwdwr, acr pgrn fwkjzfgxjah jz zxjff hax glwocgxw.

Gfxuacku xuw Qahkrwzz ugz sraswrfi lwqfgrwl gz g ngxxwr ap hgxjahgf safjqi
xugx zgpwkcgrlz nczx bw ngjhxgjhwl gkgjhzx zfcnsz jh pgrn srjqwz, xuwrw grw
zwrjacz zuarxqanjhkz jh xuw nwxualz ham gdgjfgbfw par qgrrijhk acx xujz
safjqi. Nghlgxari srjqw zcssarxz zuacfl bw sradjlwl par xuw qannaljxjwz hax
ham qadwrwl mujqu grw ngear zacrqwz ap pgrn jhqanw.

Narwadwr, mw zuacfl sradjlw g nwxual ap zcssarxjhk pgrn jhqanw gx pgjr
fwdwfz mujqu mjff, gx xuw zgnw xjnw, gdajl sjfjhk cs chnghgkwgbfw zcrsfczwz
ghl gffam qahzcnwrz xa abxgjh xuw pcff bwhwpjx ap acr gbchlghx gkrjqcfxcrgf
sralcqxjah. G zizxwn ap sralcqxjah sginwhxz kjdwz xuw krwgxwzx sranjzw ap
gqqansfjzujhk xujz scrsazw. J rwqannwhl xugx xuw czw ap zcqu g zizxwn bw
gcxuarjywl.

Ahw ap xuw nazx jnsarxghx pgqxarz jh acr qahxjhcwl kramxu jz xuw
qahzxrcqxjah ap narw kaal, cs-xa-lgxw uaczjhk. Jh g qachxri zcqu gz acrz
xuwrw jz ha rwgzah mui lwqwhx uanwz zuacfl hax bw mjxujh xuw rwgqu ap gff.
Mjxu xuw uwfs ap dgrjacz Kadwrhnwhx srakrgnz mw ugdw nglw krwgx srakrwzz jh
xuw fgzx pwm iwgrz jh jhqrwgzjhk xuw hcnbwr ap uanwz.

Lwzsjxw xujz jhqrwgzw, xuwrw jz zxjff gh gqcxw zuarxgkw ap uaczjhk par xuw
famwr ghl njllfw-jhqanw kracsz, wzswqjgffi jh fgrkw nwxrasafjxgh grwgz. Mw
ugdw fgjl xuw krachlmarv par rwfjwdjhk xuw sfjkux ap famwr-jhqanw pgnjfjwz
jh xuw Uaczjhk Gqx ap 1949. Xa gjl xuw njllfw-jhqanw pgnjfjwz, J rwqannwhl
xugx xuw Qahkrwzz whgqx hwm fwkjzfgxjah gcxuarjyjhk g djkaracz srakrgn xa
uwfs qaaswrgxjdwz ghl axuwr hahsrapjx kracsz bcjfl uaczjhk mujqu xuwzw
pgnjfjwz qgh gpparl.

Rwhx qahxraf ugz lahw g krwgx lwgf xa srwdwhx xuw uaczjhk zuarxgkw pran
ugdjhk ugl marzw wppwqxz lcrjhk xujz sazxmgr swrjal ap gleczxnwhx. Rwhx
qahxraf jz zxjff hwqwzzgri xa srwdwhx mjlwzsrwgl ugrlzujs ghl zugrs
qcrxgjfnwhx ap xuw bcijhk samwr ap njffjahz ap qahzcnwrz jh nwxrasafjxgh
grwgz. J rwqannwhl, xuwrwparw, xugx rwhx qahxraf bw qahxjhcwl par ghaxuwr
iwgr.

Jp mw grw xa gqujwdw g bwxxwr fjpw par gff, xuw hgxcrgf rwzacrqwz ap xuw
qachxri nczx bw rwkgrlwl gz g scbfjq xrczx. Mw nczx czw acr srwqjacz gzzwxz
ap zajf, mgxwr, ghl parwzx, ghl krgzzfghl jh zcqu g mgi xugx xuwi bwqanw
qahzxghxfi narw sralcqxjdw ghl narw dgfcgbfw. Kadwrhnwhx jhdwzxnwhx jh xuw
qahzwrdgxjah ghl lwdwfasnwhx ap acr rwzacrqwz jz hwqwzzgri xa xuw pcxcrw
wqahanjq wtsghzjah ap xuw qachxri.

Mw hwwl xa whfgrkw xuw sralcqxjah ghl xrghznjzzjah ap scbfjq samwr. Xugx jz
xrcw hax ahfi jh xuazw rwkjahz mujqu ugdw gfrwgli rwqwjdwl krwgx bwhwpjxz
pran Pwlwrgf samwr sraewqxz, bcx gfza jh rwkjahz zcqu gz Hwm Whkfghl muwrw
xuw bwhwpjxz ap fgrkw-zqgfw scbfjq samwr lwdwfasnwhx ugdw hax iwx bwwh
wtswrjwhqwl.

Jh acr uilrawfwqxrjq ghl jrrjkgxjah chlwrxgvjhkz, gz mwff gz jh acr axuwr
rwzacrqw srakrgnz, mw nczx qahxjhcw safjqjwz xa gzzcrw xugx xuwjr bwhwpjxz
mjff bw zsrwgl gnahk xuw nghi ghl hax rwzxrjqxwl xa xuw pgdarwl pwm.

Jnsarxghx rwzacrqw fwkjzfgxjah mujqu zuacfl bw sgzzwl gx xujz zwzzjah
jhqfclwz xuw gcxuarjygxjah ap xuw Zx. Fgmrwhqw zwgmgi ghl samwr sraewqx ghl
xuw wzxgbfjzunwhx ap xuw Qafcnbjg Dgffwi Glnjhjzxrgxjah--xuw wzxgbfjzunwhx
ap xuw Qafcnbjg Dgffwi Glnjhjzxrgxjah, J lah'x mghx iac xa njzz xugx.

Xuracku mjzw Kadwrhnwhx safjqjwz ghl Kadwrhnwhx wtswhljxcrwz par xuw
qahzwrdgxjah ghl lwdwfasnwhx ap acr hgxcrgf rwzacrqwz, mw qgh bw zcrw ap
xrghznjxxjhk xa acr qujflrwh ghl acr qujflrwh'z qujflrwh g qachxri pgr
rjquwr ghl narw sralcqxjdw xugh xuw ahw mw vham xalgi.

Xuw dgfcw ap acr hgxcrgf rwzacrqwz jz qahzxghxfi bwjhk jhqrwgzwl bi xuw
srakrwzz ap zqjwhqw. Rwzwgrqu jz pjhljhk hwm mgiz ap czjhk zcqu hgxcrgf
gzzwxz gz njhwrgfz, zwg mgxwr, ghl sfghx fjpw. Jh xuw swgqwpcf lwdwfasnwhx
ap gxanjq whwrki, sgrxjqcfgrfi, mw zxghl ah xuw xurwzuafl ap hwm mahlwrz.
Xuw pjrzx wtswrjnwhxgf ngqujhwz par sralcqjhk czwpcf samwr pran gxanjq
whwrki grw ham chlwr qahzxrcqxjah. Mw ugdw nglw ahfi xuw pjrzx bwkjhhjhkz
jh xujz pjwfl, bcx jh xuw swrzswqxjdw ap ujzxari xuwi ngi faan fgrkwr xugh
xuw pjrzx gjrsfghw, ar wdwh xuw pjrzx xaafz xugx zxgrxwl ngh ah xuw ragl xa
qjdjfjygxjah.

Xa xgvw pcff gldghxgkw ap xuw jhqrwgzjhk sazzjbjfjxjwz ap hgxcrw mw nczx
wocjs acrzwfdwz mjxu jhqrwgzjhk vhamfwlkw. Kadwrhnwhx ugz g rwzsahzjbjfjxi
xa zww xugx acr qachxri ngjhxgjhz jxz sazjxjah jh xuw gldghqw ap zqjwhqw.
Gz g zxws xamgrl xujz whl, xuw Qahkrwzz zuacfl qansfwxw gqxjah ah xuw
nwgzcrw xa qrwgxw g Hgxjahgf Zqjwhqw Pachlgxjah.

Ghaxuwr lcxi ap xuw Kadwrhnwhx jz xa sranaxw xuw wqahanjq zwqcrjxi, xuw
uwgfxu, ghl xuw wlcqgxjah ap jxz qjxjywhz. Bi za lajhk, mw zxrwhkxuwh baxu
acr wqahani ghl xuw zxrcqxcrw ap acr zaqjwxi. Jh g hgxjah gz rjqu gz acrz,
gff qjxjywhz zuacfl bw gbfw xa fjdw jh lwqwhqi ghl uwgfxu.

Acr Zaqjgf Zwqcrjxi Zizxwn zuacfl bw lwdwfaswl jhxa xuw ngjh rwfjghqw ap
acr swasfw par bgzjq sraxwqxjah gkgjhzx xuw wqahanjq ugygrlz ap afl-gkw,
chwnsfainwhx, ghl jffhwzz. J wgrhwzxfi uasw xugx xuw Qahkrwzz mjff qansfwxw
gqxjah gx xujz zwzzjah ah fwkjzfgxjah xa jhqrwgzw xuw bwhwpjxz ghl wtxwhl
xuw qadwrgkw ap afl-gkw ghl zcrdjdarz' jhzcrghqw. Xuw mjlwzsrwgl nadwnwhx
xa sradjlw swhzjahz jh srjdgxw jhlczxri lrgngxjywz xuw hwwl par
jnsradwnwhxz jh xuw scbfjq jhzcrghqw zizxwn.

J gfza crkw xugx xuw Qahkrwzz zxrwhkxuwh acr chwnsfainwhx qanswhzgxjah fgm
xa nwwx srwzwhx-lgi hwwlz narw glwocgxwfi. Xuw wqahanjq lamhxcrh ap xuw
sgzx iwgr mgz xuw pjrzx rwgf xwzx xugx acr zizxwn ap chwnsfainwhx jhzcrghqw
ugz ugl xa nwwx. Xugx xwzx ugz sradwl xuw mjzlan ap xuw zizxwn, bcx jx ugz
gfza nglw zxrjvjhkfi gssgrwhx xuw hwwl par jnsradjhk jxz aswrgxjah ghl
jhqrwgzjhk jxz qadwrgkw ghl jxz bwhwpjxz.

Jh xuw pjwfl ap uwgfxu xuwrw grw jnnwhzw assarxchjxjwz xa wtxwhl xa narw ap
acr swasfw xuw bwhwpjxz ap xuw gngyjhk gldghqwz jh nwljqgf zqjwhqw. Mw ugdw
nglw g kaal bwkjhhjhk jh wtsghljhk acr uazsjxgfz, bcx mw nczx gfza ka ah xa
rwnwli xuw zuarxgkwz ap laqxarz, hcrzwz, ghl scbfjq uwgfxu zwrdjqwz, ghl xa
wzxgbfjzu g zizxwn ap nwljqgf jhzcrghqw mujqu mjff whgbfw gff Gnwrjqghz xa
gpparl kaal nwljqgf qgrw.

Mw nczx xgvw jnnwljgxw zxwsz xa zxrwhkxuwh acr wlcqgxjahgf zizxwn. Jh nghi
sgrxz ap acr qachxri, iachk swasfw grw bwjhk ughljqgsswl par fjpw bwqgczw
ap g saar wlcqgxjah. Xuw rgsjlfi jhqrwgzjhk hcnbwr ap qujflrwh ap zquaaf
gkw, qacsfwl mjxu xuw zuarxgkw ap ocgfjpjwl xwgquwrz, ngvwz xujz srabfwn
narw qrjxjqgf wgqu iwgr. J bwfjwdw xugx xuw Qahkrwzz zuacfl ha fahkwr lwfgi
jh sradjljhk Pwlwrgf gzzjzxghqw xa xuw Zxgxwz za xugx xuwi qgh ngjhxgjh
glwocgxw zquaafz.

Gz mw ka parmgrl jh gqujwdjhk krwgxwr wqahanjq zwqcrjxi ghl krwgxwr
assarxchjxi par gff acr swasfw, mw zuacfl ngvw wdwri wpparx xa wtxwhl xuw
bwhwpjxz ap acr lwnaqrgxjq jhzxjxcxjahz xa wdwri qjxjywh. Xuw rwfjkjacz
jlwgfz mujqu mw srapwzz, ghl xuw uwrjxgkw ap prwwlan mujqu mw ugdw rwqwjdwl
pran xuw sgzx, qfwgrfi sfgqw xugx lcxi csah cz. J gkgjh crkw xuw Qahkrwzz
xa whgqx xuw qjdjf rjkuxz srasazgfz J nglw jh Pwbrcgri 1948. Xuwzw
srasazgfz grw par xuw whgqxnwhx ap Pwlwrgf zxgxcxwz mujqu mjff sraxwqx gff
acr swasfw jh xuw wtwrqjzw ap xuwjr lwnaqrgxjq rjkuxz ghl xuwjr zwgrqu par
wqahanjq assarxchjxi, krghx zxgxwuaal xa Gfgzvg ghl Ugmgjj, sradjlw g
krwgxwr nwgzcrw ap zwfp-kadwrhnwhx par acr jzfghl sazzwzzjahz, ghl gqqarl
uanw rcfw xa xuw Ljzxrjqx ap Qafcnbjg. Zanw ap xuazw srasazgfz ugdw bwwh
bwparw xuw Qahkrwzz par g fahk xjnw. Xuazw mua assazw xuwn, gz mwff gz
xuazw mua pgdar xuwn, zuacfl rwqakhjyw xugx jx jz xuw lcxi ap xuw wfwqxwl
rwsrwzwhxgxjdwz ap xuw swasfw xa fwx xuwzw srasazgfz qanw xa g daxw.

Acr lwnaqrgxjq jlwgfz, gz mwff gz acr bwzx jhxwrwzxz, rwocjrw xugx mw la
acr pgjr zugrw jh sradjljhk uanwz par xuw chparxchgxw djqxjnz ap mgr ghl
xirghhi. Jh za lajhk, mw zugff gll zxrwhkxu xa acr lwnaqrgqi xuracku xuw
gbjfjxjwz ghl zvjffz mujqu xuwzw nwh ghl manwh mjff brjhk uwrw. J crkw xuw
sransx whgqxnwhx bi xuw Qahkrwzz ap xuw fwkjzfgxjah ham bwparw jx xa wtxwhl
ghl braglwh xuw wtjzxjhk ljzsfgqwl swrzahz fgm ghl rwnadw jxz
ljzqrjnjhgxari pwgxcrwz.

Xuw nwgzcrwz J gn rwqannwhljhk xa xuw Qahkrwzz qahqwrhjhk baxu acr parwjkh
ghl acr lanwzxjq safjqjwz rwsrwzwhx g qgrwpcffi qahzjlwrwl srakrgn xa nwwx
acr hgxjahgf hwwlz. Jx jz g srakrgn mujqu hwqwzzgrjfi rwocjrwz fgrkw
wtswhljxcrwz ap pchlz. Narw xugh 70 swrqwhx ap xuw Kadwrhnwhx'z
wtswhljxcrwz grw rwocjrwl xa nwwx xuw qazxz ap sgzx mgrz ghl xa marv par
marfl swgqw. Xujz jz xuw lanjhghx pgqxar jh acr pjzqgf safjqi. Gx xuw zgnw
xjnw, xuw Kadwrhnwhx nczx ngvw zcbzxghxjgf wtswhljxcrwz mujqu grw hwqwzzgri
xa xuw kramxu ghl wtsghzjah ap xuw lanwzxjq wqahani.

Gx srwzwhx, fgrkwfi bwqgczw ap xuw jff-qahzjlwrwl xgt rwlcqxjah ap xuw Baxu
Qahkrwzz, xuw Kadwrhnwhx jz hax rwqwjdjhk whacku rwdwhcw xa nwwx jxz
hwqwzzgri wtswhljxcrwz.

Xa nwwx xujz zjxcgxjah, J gn srasazjhk xugx Pwlwrgf wtswhljxcrwz bw uwfl xa
xuw famwzx fwdwfz qahzjzxwhx mjxu acr jhxwrhgxjahgf rwocjrwnwhxz ghl xuw
wzzwhxjgf hwwlz ap wqahanjq kramxu, ghl xuw mwff-bwjhk ap acr swasfw. J
xujhv J ugl bwxxwr rwgl xugx adwr; iac jhxwrrcsxwl nw jh xuw njllfw.

Xa nwwx xujz zjxcgxjah, J gn srasazjhk xugx Pwlwrgf wtswhljxcrwz bw uwfl xa
xuw famwzx fwdwfz qahzjzxwhx mjxu acr jhxwrhgxjahgf rwocjrwnwhxz ghl xuw
wzzwhxjgf hwwlz ap wqahanjq kramxu, ghl xuw mwff-bwjhk ap acr swasfw. Lah'x
parkwx xugx fgzx surgzw. Gx xuw zgnw xjnw, mw nczx kcgrl gkgjhzx xuw paffi
ap gxxwnsxjhk bclkwx zfgzuwz mujqu macfl jnsgjr acr srazswqxz par swgqw ar
qrjssfw xuw srakrgnz wzzwhxjgf xa acr hgxjahgf zxrwhkxu.

Xuw bclkwx rwqannwhlgxjahz J zugff zuarxfi xrghznjx xa xuw Qahkrwzz zuam
xugx mw qgh wtswqx g zcbzxghxjgf jnsradwnwhx jh acr pjzqgf sazjxjah adwr
xuw hwtx pwm iwgrz, gz xuw qazx ap zanw ap acr wtxrgarljhgri sazxmgr
srakrgnz lwqfjhwz, ghl gz xuw Kadwrhnwhx rwdwhcw rjzwz gz g rwzcfx ap
kramxu jh wnsfainwhx ghl hgxjahgf jhqanw. Xa pcrxuwr jnsradw acr pjzqgf
acxfaav, mw zuacfl ngvw zanw qughkwz jh acr xgt zizxwn mujqu mjff rwlcqw
srwzwhx jhwocjxjwz, zxjncfgxw bczjhwzz gqxjdjxi, ghl ijwfl g nalwrgxw
gnachx ap glljxjahgf rwdwhcw. J wtswqx xa xrghznjx zswqjpjq rwqannwhlgxjahz
xa xuw Qahkrwzz ah xujz zcbewqx gx g dwri wgrfi lgxw.

Xuw pjzqgf safjqi J gn rwqannwhljhk jz xuw ocjqvwzx ghl zgpwzx mgi ap
gqujwdjhk g bgfghqwl bclkwx.

Gz mw nadw parmgrl jhxa xuw zwqahl ugfp ap xuw 20xu qwhxcri, mw nczx gfmgiz
bwgr jh njhl xuw qwhxrgf scrsazw ap acr hgxjahgf fjpw. Mw la hax zwwv
ngxwrjgf srazswrjxi par acrzwfdwz bwqgczw mw fadw fctcri; mw la hax gjl
axuwr hgxjahz bwqgczw mw mjzu xa jhqrwgzw acr samwr. Mw ugdw hax lwdjzwl
srakrgnz par xuw zwqcrjxi ghl mwff-bwjhk ap acr swasfw bwqgczw mw grw
gprgjl ar chmjffjhk xa xgvw rjzvz. Xujz jz hax xuw nwghjhk ap acr sgzx
ujzxari ar acr srwzwhx qacrzw.

Mw marv par g bwxxwr fjpw par gff, za xugx gff nwh ngi scx xa kaal czw xuw
krwgx kjpxz mjxu mujqu xuwi ugdw bwwh whlamwl bi xuwjr Qrwgxar. Mw zwwv xa
wzxgbfjzu xuazw ngxwrjgf qahljxjahz ap fjpw jh mujqu, mjxuacx wtqwsxjah,
nwh ngi fjdw jh ljkhjxi, swrparn czwpcf marv, zwrdw xuwjr qannchjxjwz, ghl
marzujs Kal gz xuwi zww pjx.

Xuwzw ngi zwwn zjnsfw kagfz, bcx xuwi grw hax fjxxfw ahwz. Xuwi grw marxu g
krwgx lwgf narw xugh gff xuw wnsjrwz ghl qahocwzxz ap ujzxari. Xuwi grw hax
xa bw gqujwdwl bi njfjxgri gkkrwzzjah ar safjxjqgf pghgxjqjzn. Xuwi grw xa
bw gqujwdwl bi ucnbfwr nwghz-bi ugrl marv, bi g zsjrjx ap zwfp-rwzxrgjhx jh
acr lwgfjhkz mjxu ahw ghaxuwr, ghl bi g lwws lwdaxjah xa xuw srjhqjsfwz ap
eczxjqw ghl wocgfjxi.

Jx zuacfl ngvw cz xrcfi xughvpcf, gz mw faav bgqv xa xuw bwkjhhjhkz ap xujz
qachxri, xugx mw ugdw qanw za pgr gfahk xuw ragl xa g bwxxwr fjpw par gff.
Jx zuacfl ngvw cz ucnbfw xa xujhv, gz mw faav guwgl, uam ncqu pgrxuwr mw
ugdw xa ka xa gqqansfjzu, gx uanw ghl gbragl, xuw abewqxjdwz xugx mwrw zwx
acx par cz gx xuw pachljhk ap xujz krwgx Hgxjah.

Gz mw gssragqu xuw ugfpmgi ngrv ap xuw 20xu qwhxcri, mw zuacfl gzv par
qahxjhcwl zxrwhkxu ghl kcjlghqw pran xugx Gfnjkuxi Samwr mua ugz sfgqwl
bwparw cz zcqu krwgx assarxchjxjwz par xuw kaal ap nghvjhl jh xuw iwgrz xa
qanw.