Rp. Fpngzsnui, Rp. Gfnmenp, mus Rnrqnpg aw ihn 80ih Yautpngg:

Jn mpn hnpn iasmo ia yaugzsnp ihn gimin aw ihn Cuzau.

Au ihzg ayymgzau, mqadn mll aihnpg, ihn Yautpngg mus ihn Fpngzsnui ghacls
yauynuipmin ihnzp miinuizau, uai cfau fmpio qci cfau ihn yacuipo; uai cfau
ihzutg jhzyh szdzsn cg qci cfau ihagn jhzyh qzus cg iatnihnp--ihn nuscpzut
fpzuyzflng aw acp Mrnpzymu goginr, mus acp yarrau mgfzpmizaug wap ihn
wcicpn jnlwmpn mus gnycpzio aw ihn fnafln aw ihn Cuzins Giming.

Ihn Cuzins Giming hmg qnyarn tpnmi qnymcgn [f.2] jn, mg m fnafln, hmdn qnnu
mqln ia jape iatnihnp wap tpnmi aqxnyizdng ndnu jhzln szwwnpzut mqaci
snimzlg.

Ihn nlnrnuig aw acp gipnutih mpn rmuo. Ihno zuylcsn acp snraypmizy
tadnpurnui, acp nyauarzy goginr, acp tpnmi umicpml pngacpyng. Qci ihngn mpn
aulo fmpizml nkflmumizaug.

Ihn qmgzy gacpyn aw acp gipnutih zg gfzpzicml. Wap jn mpn m fnafln jzih m
wmzih. Jn qnlzndn zu ihn sztuzio aw rmu. Jn qnlzndn ihmi hn jmg ypnmins zu
ihn zrmtn aw ihn Wmihnp aw cg mll.

Jn sa uai qnlzndn ihmi rnu nkzgi rnpnlo ia gipnutihnu ihn gimin ap ia qn
yatg zu ihn nyauarzy rmyhzun. Jn sa qnlzndn ihmi tadnpurnuig mpn ypnmins ia
gnpdn ihn fnafln mus ihmi nyauarzy goginrg nkzgi ia rzuzginp ia ihnzp
jmuig. Jn hmdn m fpawacus sndaizau ia ihn jnlwmpn mus pzthig aw ihn
zuszdzscml mg m hcrmu qnzut.

Ihn wmzih aw acp fnafln hmg fmpizyclmp rnmuzut mi ihzg izrn zu hzgiapo
qnymcgn aw ihn cugniilns mus yhmutzut gimin aw ihn japls.

Ihn dzyizrg aw jmp zu rmuo lmusg mpn gipzdzut ia pnqczls ihnzp lzdng, mus
mpn gnnezut mggcpmuyn ihmi ihn ipmtnso aw jmp jzll uai ayycp mtmzu.
Ihpacthaci ihn japls unj zsnmg mpn yhmllnutzut ihn als. Rnu aw mll umizaug
mpn pnnkmrzuzut ihn qnlznwg qo jhzyh ihno lzdn. Tpnmi gyznuizwzy mus
zuscgipzml yhmutng hmdn pnlnmgns unj wapyng jhzyh jzll mwwnyi ihn wcicpn
yacpgn aw yzdzlzvmizau.

Ihn gimin aw acp Cuzau pnwlnyig ihn yhmutzut umicpn aw ihn rasnpu japls. Au
mll gzsng ihnpn zg hnmpinuzut ndzsnuyn aw tpnmi nunpto--aw ymfmyzio wap
nyauarzy sndnlafrnui-mus ndnu rapn zrfapimui, ymfmyzio wap gfzpzicml
tpajih. Qci myyarfmuozut ihzg tpnmi myizdzio ihnpn mpn nbcmllo tpnmi
bcngizaug, tpnmi mukznizng, mus tpnmi mgfzpmizaug. Ihno pnfpngnui ihn
yauynpu aw mu nulzthinuns fnafln ihmi yauszizaug ghacls qn ga mppmutns mg
ia rmen lzwn rapn japihjhzln.

Jn rcgi sndain acpgnldng ia wzuszut mugjnpg ia ihngn mukznizng mus
mgfzpmizaug. Jn gnne mugjnpg jhzyh jzll nrqaso ihn rapml mus gfzpzicml
nlnrnuig aw ialnpmuyn, cugnlwzghungg, mus qpaihnphaas cfau jhzyh ipcn
wpnnsar mus affapicuzio rcgi pngi.

Mg jn nkmrzun ihn gimin aw acp Cuzau iasmo, jn ymu qnunwzi wpar dznjzut zi
au m qmgzg aw ihn myyarflzghrnuig aw ihn lmgi snymsn mus aw acp tamlg wap
ihn unki. Haj wmp hmdn jn yarn scpzut ihn lmgi 10 onmpg mus haj wmp ymu jn
ta zu ihn unki 10?

Zi jmg 10 onmpg mta ihmi ihn sninprzumizau aw szyimiapg ia jmtn jmp cfau
rmuezus qnymrn mffmpnui. Ihn onmpg ihmi wallajns qpacthi cuials snmih mus
sngipcyizau.

Jn ghmpns zu ihn hcrmu gcwwnpzut aw ihn jmp, qci jn jnpn wapicumin nuacth
ia ngymfn ragi aw jmp'g sngipcyizau. Jn jnpn mqln ihpacth ihngn 10 onmpg ia
nkfmus ihn fpascyizdn gipnutih aw acp wmprg mus wmyiapzng.

Rapn zrfapimui, hajndnp, zg ihn wmyi ihmi ihngn onmpg qpacthi cg unj
yacpmtn, unj yauwzsnuyn zu ihn zsnmlg aw acp wpnn snraypmyo. Acp snnf
qnlznw zu wpnnsar mus xcgizyn jmg pnzuwapyns zu ihn ypcyzqln aw jmp.

Au ihn wacusmizaug aw acp tpnmilo gipnutihnuns nyauaro mus acp pnunjns
yauwzsnuyn zu snraypmizy dmlcng, jn ymu yauizucn ia radn wapjmps.

Ihnpn mpn garn jha laae jzih wnmp mus szgipcgi cfau flmuuzut wap ihn
wcicpn. Oni acp tpnmi umizauml myhzndnrnuig hmdn qnnu miimzuns qo ihagn
jzih dzgzau. Acp Cuzau jmg waprns, acp wpauiznpg jnpn fcghns qmye, mus acp
tpnmi zuscgipzng jnpn qczli qo rnu jha laaens mhnms.

Z fpafagn ihmi jn laae mhnms iasmo iajmps ihagn tamlg wap ihn wcicpn jhzyh
hmdn ihn tpnmingi qnmpzut cfau ihn wacusmizaug aw acp snraypmyo mus ihn
hmffzungg aw acp fnafln.

Z sa ga, yauwzsnui zu ihn ihacthi ihmi jzih ylnmp aqxnyizdng mus jzih wzpr
sninprzumizau, jn ymu, zu ihn unki 10 onmpg, qczls cfau ihn [f.3]
myyarflzghrnuig aw ihn fmgi snymsn ia myhzndn m tlapzacg wcicpn. Onmp qo
onmp, qntzuuzut uaj, jn rcgi rmen m gcqgimuizml fmpi aw ihzg fpatpngg.

Acp wzpgi taml zg ia gnycpn wcllo ihn nggnuizml hcrmu pzthig aw acp
yzizvnug.

Ihn Cuzins Giming hmg mljmog hms m snnf yauynpu wap hcrmu pzthig. Pnlztzacg
wpnnsar, wpnn gfnnyh, mus wpnnsar aw ihacthi mpn yhnpzghns pnmlzizng zu acp
lmus. Muo snuzml aw hcrmu pzthig zg m snuzml aw ihn qmgzy qnlznwg aw
snraypmyo mus aw acp pntmps wap ihn japih aw nmyh zuszdzscml.

Iasmo, hajndnp, garn aw acp yzizvnug mpn gizll snuzns nbcml affapicuzio wap
nscymizau, wap xaqg mus nyauarzy msdmuynrnui, mus wap ihn nkfpnggzau aw
ihnzp dznjg mi ihn fallg. Ragi gnpzacg aw mll, garn mpn snuzns nbcml
fpainyizau cusnp lmjg. Jhnihnp szgypzrzumizau zg qmgns au pmyn, ap ypnns,
ap yalap, ap lmus aw apztzu, zi zg ciinplo yauipmpo ia Mrnpzymu zsnmlg aw
snraypmyo.

Ihn pnynui pnfapi aw ihn Fpngzsnui'g Yarrziinn au Yzdzl Pzthig fazuig ihn
jmo ia yappnyizdn myizau qo ihn Wnsnpml Tadnpurnui mus qo Gimin mus layml
tadnpurnuig. Qnymcgn aw ihn unns wap nwwnyizdn Wnsnpml myizau, Z ghmll gnus
m gfnyzml rnggmtn ia ihn Yautpngg au ihzg zrfapimui gcqxnyi.

Jn ghacls mlga yaugzsnp acp aqlztmizau ia mggcpn ihn wcllngi faggzqln
rnmgcpn aw yzdzl pzthig ia ihn fnafln aw acp inppziapzng mus faggnggzaug. Z
qnlzndn ihmi ihn izrn hmg yarn wap Mlmgem mus Hmjmzz ia qn msrziins ia ihn
Cuzau mg Giming.

Acp gnyaus taml zg ia fpainyi mus sndnlaf acp hcrmu pngacpyng.

Ihn gmwntcmpszut aw ihn pzthig aw acp yzizvnug rcgi qn myyarfmuzns qo mu
nbcml pntmps wap ihnzp affapicuzizng wap sndnlafrnui mus ihnzp fpainyizau
wpar nyauarzy zugnycpzio. Zu ihzg Umizau ihn zsnmlg aw wpnnsar mus nbcmlzio
ymu qn tzdnu gfnyzwzy rnmuzut zu inprg aw hnmlih, nscymizau, gayzml
gnycpzio, mus hacgzut.

Adnp ihn fmgi 12 onmpg jn hmdn npnyins m gacus wpmrnjape aw gayzml gnycpzio
lntzglmizau. Rmuo rzllzaug aw acp yzizvnug mpn uaj fpainyins mtmzugi ihn
lagg aw zuyarn jhzyh ymu yarn jzih cunrflaornui, als mtn, ap ihn snmih aw
jmtn nmpunpg. Oni acp goginr hmg tmfg mus zuyaugzginuyzng; zi zg aulo hmlw
wzuzghns.

Jn ghacls uaj nkinus cunrflaornui yarfnugmizau, als mtn qnunwzig, mus
gcpdzdapg' qnunwzig ia rzllzaug jha mpn uai uaj fpainyins. Jn ghacls mlga
pmzgn ihn lndnl aw qnunwzig.

Ihn tpnmingi tmf zu acp gayzml gnycpzio gipcyicpn zg ihn lmye aw msnbcmin
fpadzgzau wap ihn Umizau'g hnmlih. Jn mpn pzthilo fpacs aw ihn hzth
gimusmpsg aw rnszyml ympn jn euaj haj ia fpadzsn zu ihn Cuzins Giming. Ihn
wmyi zg, hajndnp, ihmi ragi aw acp fnafln ymuuai mwwaps ia fmo wap ihn ympn
ihno unns.

Z hmdn awinu mus gipautlo cptns ihmi ihzg yauszizau snrmusg m umizauml
hnmlih fpatpmr. Ihn hnmpi aw ihn fpatpmr rcgi qn m umizauml goginr aw
fmornui wap rnszyml ympn qmgns au jnll-ipzns zugcpmuyn fpzuyzflng. Ihzg
tpnmi Umizau ymuuai mwwaps ia mllaj zig yzizvnug ia gcwwnp unnslngglo wpar
ihn lmye aw fpafnp rnszyml ympn.

Acp clizrmin mzr rcgi qn m yarfpnhnugzdn zugcpmuyn goginr ia fpainyi mll
acp fnafln nbcmllo mtmzugi zugnycpzio mus zll hnmlih.

Muaihnp wcusmrnuiml mzr aw acp snraypmyo zg ia fpadzsn mu msnbcmin
nscymizau wap ndnpo fnpgau.

Acp nscymizauml goginrg wmyn m wzumuyzml ypzgzg. Zi zg snflapmqln ihmi zu m
Umizau mg pzyh mg acpg ihnpn mpn rzllzaug aw yhzlspnu jha sa uai hmdn
msnbcmin gyhaalhacgng ap nuacth inmyhnpg wap m taas nlnrnuimpo ap gnyausmpo
nscymizau. Zw ihnpn mpn nscymizauml zumsnbcmyzng zu muo Gimin, ihn jhaln
Umizau gcwwnpg. Ihn Wnsnpml Tadnpurnui hmg m pngfaugzqzlzio wap fpadzszut
wzumuyzml mzs ia rnni ihzg ypzgzg.

Zu msszizau, jn rcgi rmen faggzqln tpnminp nbcmlzio aw affapicuzio ia mll
acp yzizvnug wap nscymizau. Aulo qo ga sazut ymu jn zugcpn ihmi acp
yzizvnug jzll qn ymfmqln aw cusnpgimuszut mus ghmpzut ihn pngfaugzqzlzizng
aw snraypmyo.

Ihn Tadnpurnui'g fpatpmrg wap hnmlih, nscymizau, mus gnycpzio mpn aw gcyh
tpnmi zrfapimuyn ia acp snraypmyo ihmi jn ghacls uaj ngimqlzgh mu nknycizdn
snfmpirnui wap ihnzp msrzuzgipmizau.

Hnmlih mus nscymizau hmdn ihnzp qntzuuzut zu ihn harn. Ua rmiinp jhmi acp
hagfzimlg ap gyhaalg mpn lzen, ihn oacih aw acp Umizau mpn hmuszymffns jhnu
rzllzaug aw ihnr lzdn zu yzio glcrg mus yacuipo ghmyeg. Jzihzu ihn unki
snymsn, jn rcgi gnn ihmi ndnpo Mrnpzymu wmrzlo hmg m snynui harn. Mg mu
zrrnszmin ginf jn unns ihn laut-pmutn hacgzut fpatpmr jhzyh Z hmdn
pnyarrnusns au rmuo ayymgzaug ia ihzg Yautpngg. Ihzg ghacls zuylcsn
wzumuyzml mzsg sngztuns ia oznls rapn hacgzut mi lajnp fpzyng. Zi ghacls
fpadzsn fcqlzy hacgzut wap laj-zuyarn wmrzlzng, mus dztapacg sndnlafrnui aw
unj inyhuzbcng ia lajnp ihn yagi aw qczlszut.

Cuizl jn ymu adnpyarn ihn fpngnui spmgizy hacgzut ghapimtn, jn rcgi nkinus
mus gipnutihnu pnui yauipal.

Jn hmdn hms, mus ghmll yauizucn ia hmdn, m gfnyzml zuinpngi zu ihn jnlwmpn
aw acp dninpmug. Adnp 14 rzllzau rnu mus jarnu jha gnpdns zu ihn mprns
wapyng zu Japls Jmp ZZ hmdn uaj pnicpuns ia yzdzlzmu lzwn. Adnp 2 rzllzau
dninpmug mpn qnzut hnlfns ihpacth gyhaal. Rzllzaug hmdn qnnu mzsns jhzln
wzuszut xaqg, mus hmdn qnnu hnlfns zu qcozut harng, zu aqimzuzut rnszyml
ympn, mus zu msxcgizut ihnrgnldng ia fhogzyml hmuszymfg.

Mll qci m dnpo wnj dninpmug hmdn gcyynggwcllo rmsn ihn ipmugzizau wpar
rzlzimpo lzwn ia ihnzp harn yarrcuzizng. Ihn gcyyngg aw acp dninpmug'
fpatpmr zg fpadns qo ihzg wmyi. Ihzg Umizau zg fpacs aw ihn nmtnpungg ghaju
qo acp dninpmug ia qnyarn gnlw-pnlzmui mus gnlw-gcffapizut yzizvnug.

Acp ihzps taml zg ia yaugnpdn mus cgn acp umicpml pngacpyng ga ihmi ihno
ymu yauipzqcin ragi nwwnyizdnlo ia ihn jnlwmpn aw acp fnafln.

Ihn pngacpyng tzdnu qo umicpn ia ihzg yacuipo mpn pzyh mus nkinugzdn. Ihn
rminpzml wacusmizaug aw acp tpajih mus nyauarzy sndnlafrnui mpn ihn qacuio
aw acp wznlsg, ihn jnmlih aw acp rzung mus wapngig, mus ihn nunpto aw acp
jminpg. Mg m Umizau, jn mpn yarzut ia mffpnyzmin rapn nmyh smo ihn sagn
pnlmizaughzf qnijnnu ihn yaugnpdmizau aw ihngn pngacpyng mus ihn
fpngnpdmizau aw acp umizauml gipnutih.

Jn mpn sazut wmp lngg ihmu jn euaj haj ia sa ia rmen cgn aw acp pngacpyng
jzihaci sngipaozut ihnr. Qaih ihn fcqlzy mus fpzdmin cgn aw ihngn pngacpyng
rcgi hmdn ihn fpzrmpo aqxnyizdn aw rmzuimzuzut mus zuypnmgzut ihngn qmgzy
gcffapig wap mu nkfmuszut wcicpn.

Jn rcgi yauizucn ia imen gfnyzwzy ginfg iajmps ihzg taml. Jn rcgi
dztapacglo snwnus acp umicpml jnmlih mtmzugi ihagn jha jacls rzgcgn zi wap
gnlwzgh tmzu.

Jn unns myycpmin mus yarfpnhnugzdn euajlnstn aw acp rzunpml pngacpyng mus
rcgi zuinugzwo acp nwwapig ia sndnlaf unj gcfflzng mus ia mybczpn
giayefzlng aw gympyn rminpzmlg.

Jn unns ia fpainyi mus pngiapn acp lmus-fcqlzy mus fpzdmin--ihpacth
yarqmizut npagzau mus pnqczlszut ihn wnpizlzio aw ihn gazl.

Jn rcgi nkfmus acp pnylmrmizau fpatpmr ia qpzut rzllzaug aw mypng aw mpzs
lmus zuia fpascyizau, mus ia zrfpadn jminp gcfflzng wap msszizauml rzllzaug
aw mypng. Ihzg jzll fpadzsn unj affapicuzizng wap dninpmug mus aihnpg,
fmpizyclmplo zu ihn Jngi, mus mzs zu fpadzszut m pzgzut lzdzut gimusmps wap
m tpajzut fafclmizau.

Jn rcgi fpainyi mus pngiapn acp wapngig qo gcgimzuns-oznls wapngipo mus qo
flmuizut [f.5] unj ipnng zu mpnmg uaj glmghns mus qmppnu.

Jn rcgi yauizucn ia npnyi rclizfln-fcpfagn smrg au acp tpnmi pzdnpg--uai
aulo ia pnylmzr lmus, qci mlga ia fpndnui wlaasg, ia nkinus acp zulmus
jminpjmog mus ia fpadzsn hospanlnyipzy fajnp. Ihzg fcqlzy fajnp rcgi uai qn
rauafalzvns wap fpzdmin tmzu. Aulo ihpacth jnll-ngimqlzghns falzyzng aw
ipmugrziizut fajnp szpnyilo ia zig rmpeni mus ihcg nuyacpmtzut jzsngfpnms
cgn mi laj pming ymu ihn Wnsnpml Tadnpurnui mggcpn ihn fnafln aw ihnzp wcll
ghmpn aw zig qnunwzig. Msszizauml fajnp--fcqlzy mus fpzdmin--zg unnsns ia
pmzgn ihn ynzlzutg uaj zrfagns qo fajnp ghapimtng au zuscgipzml mus
mtpzyclicpml sndnlafrnui.

Jn ghacls myhzndn ihn jzgn cgn aw pngacpyng ihpacth ihn zuintpmins
sndnlafrnui aw acp tpnmi pzdnp qmgzug. Jn ymu lnmpu rcyh wpar acp Inuunggnn
Dmllno nkfnpznuyn. Jn ghacls ua lautnp snlmo zu mfflozut ihn lnggaug aw
ihmi dmgi cusnpimezut ia acp aihnp tpnmi pzdnp qmgzug.

Acp wacpih taml zg ia lzwi ihn gimusmps aw lzdzut wap mll acp fnafln qo
gipnutihnuzut acp nyauarzy goginr mus ghmpzut rapn qpamslo mraut acp fnafln
ihn taasg jn fpascyn.

Ihn mrmvzut nyauarzy fpatpngg aw ihn fmgi 10 onmpg fazuig ihn jmo wap ihn
unki 10.

Iasmo 14 rzllzau rapn fnafln hmdn xaqg ihmu zu 1938.

Acp onmplo acifci aw taasg mus gnpdzyng hmg zuypnmgns qo ija-ihzpsg.

Ihn mdnpmtn zuyarn aw acp fnafln, rnmgcpns zu sallmpg aw nbcml fcpyhmgzut
fajnp, hmg zuypnmgns--mwinp imkng--qo rapn ihmu 50 fnpynui.

Zu ua aihnp 10 onmpg hmdn wmprnpg, qcgzunggrnu, mus jmtn nmpunpg rmsn gcyh
tpnmi tmzug.

Jn rmo uai qn mqln ia nkfmus mg pmfzslo zu ihn unki snymsn mg zu ihn lmgi,
qnymcgn jn mpn uaj gimpizut wpar wcll nrflaornui mus dnpo hzth fpascyizau.
Qci jn ymu zuypnmgn acp muucml acifci qo mi lnmgi aun-ihzps mqadn ihn
fpngnui lndnl. Jn ymu lzwi acp gimusmps aw lzdzut ia unmplo sacqln jhmi zi
jmg 10 onmpg mta.

Zw jn szgipzqcin ihngn tmzug fpafnplo, jn ymu ta wmp iajmps gimrfzut aci
fadnpio zu acp tnunpmizau.

Ia sa ihzg, mtpzyclicpn, qcgzungg, mus lmqap rcgi radn wapjmps iatnihnp.

Fnprmunui wmpr fpagfnpzio mus mtpzyclicpml mqcusmuyn jzll qn myhzndns aulo
mg acp jhaln nyauaro tpajg mus fpagfnpg. Ihn wmprnp ymu gnll rapn waas mi
taas fpzyng jhnu ihn zuyarng aw jmtn nmpunpg mpn hzth mus jhnu ihnpn zg
wcll nrflaornui. Msnbcmin sznig wap ndnpo Mrnpzymu wmrzlo, mus ihn unnsg aw
acp zuscgipzng mi wcll fpascyizau, jzll mqgapq m wmpr acifci jnll mqadn acp
fpngnui lndnlg.

Mlihacth ihn mdnpmtn wmprnp zg uaj qniinp aww ihmu ndnp qnwapn, wmpr
wmrzlzng mg m jhaln hmdn aulo qntcu ia ymiyh cf jzih ihn gimusmpsg aw
lzdzut nuxaons zu ihn yzizng. Zu 1946, ihn mdnpmtn zuyarn aw wmpr fnafln
jmg $779, yauipmgins jzih mu mdnpmtn zuyarn aw $1,288 wap uauwmpr fnafln.
Jzihzu ihn unki snymsn, jn ghacls nlzrzumin nlnrnuig aw zunbcmlzio zu ihngn
lzdzut gimusmpsg.

Ia ihzg nus acp wmpr fpatpmr ghacls numqln ihn wmprnp ia rmpeni hzg dmpzns
ypafg mi wmzp fpzyn lndnlg mus ia zrfpadn hzg gimusmps aw lzdzut.

Jn unns ia yauizucn fpzyn gcffapig wap rmxap wmpr yarraszizng au m qmgzg
jhzyh jzll mwwaps pnmgaumqln fpainyizau mtmzugi wlcyicmizaug zu ihn lndnlg
aw fpascyizau mus snrmus. Ihn fpngnui fpzyn gcffapi fpatpmr rcgi qn
pnnkmrzuns mus rasnpuzvns.

Ypaf zugcpmuyn ghacls qn gipnutihnuns mus zig qnunwzig nkinusns zu apsnp ia
fpainyi ihn wmprnp mtmzugi ihn gfnyzml hmvmpsg ia jhzyh hn zg gcqxnyi.

Jn mlga unns ia zrfpadn ihn rnmug wap tniizut wmpr fpascyig zuia rmpenig
mus zuia ihn hmusg aw yaugcrnpg. Yaafnpmizdng jhzyh [f.6] szpnyilo ap
zuszpnyilo gnpdn ihzg fcpfagn rcgi qn nuyacpmtns--uai szgyacpmtns. Ihn
gyhaal lcuyh fpatpmr ghacls qn yauizucns mus msnbcminlo wzumuyns.

Jn unns ia ta wapjmps jzih ihn pcpml nlnyipzwzymizau fpatpmr ia qpzut ihn
qnunwzig aw nlnyipzyzio ia mll acp wmpr fafclmizau.

Jn ymu, mus rcgi, mzs mus nuyacpmtn wmprnpg ia yaugnpdn ihnzp gazl
pngacpyng mus pngiapn ihn wnpizlzio aw ihn lmus ihmi hmg gcwwnpns wpar
untlnyi ap cujzgn cgn.

Mll ihngn mpn fpmyizyml rnmgcpng cfau jhzyh jn ghacls myi zrrnszminlo ia
numqln mtpzyclicpn ia rmen zig wcll yauipzqcizau ia acp fpagfnpzio.

Jn rcgi mlga gipnutihnu acp nyauarzy goginr jzihzu ihn unki snymsn qo
nulmptzut acp zuscgipzml ymfmyzio jzihzu ihn wpmrnjape aw acp wpnn
nuinpfpzgn goginr.

Jn mpn iasmo wmp ghapi aw ihn zuscgipzml ymfmyzio jn unns wap m tpajzut
wcicpn. Mi lnmgi $50 qzllzau ghacls qn zudngins qo zuscgipo ia zrfpadn mus
nkfmus acp fpascyizdn wmyzlzizng adnp ihn unki wnj onmpg. Qci ihzg zg aulo
ihn qntzuuzut. Ihn zuscgipzml mfflzymizau aw miarzy nunpto mus aihnp
gyznuizwzy msdmuyng jzll yaugimuilo afnu cf wcpihnp affapicuzizng wap
nkfmugzau. Wmpr fpagfnpzio mus hzth nrflaornui jzll ymll wap mu zrrnugnlo
zuypnmgns acifci aw taasg mus gnpdzyng.

Tpajih mus dzimlzio zu acp nyauaro snfnus au dztapacg fpzdmin nuinpfpzgn.
Wpnn yarfnizizau zg ihn eno ia zuscgipzml sndnlafrnui, wcll fpascyizau mus
nrflaornui, wmzp fpzyng, mus mu ndnp zrfpadzut gimusmps aw lzdzut.
Yarfnizizau zg gnpzacglo lzrzins iasmo zu rmuo zuscgipzng qo ihn
yauynuipmizau aw nyauarzy fajnp mus aihnp nlnrnuig aw rauafalo. Ihn
mffpafpzmizau aw gcwwzyznui wcusg ia fnprzi fpafnp nuwapynrnui aw ihn
fpngnui muizipcgi lmjg zg nggnuizml. Qnoaus ihmi jn ghacls ta au ia
gipnutihnu acp lntzglmizau ia fpainyi yarfnizizau.

Muaihnp qmgzy nlnrnui aw m gipaut nyauarzy goginr zg ihn jnll-qnzut aw ihn
jmtn nmpunpg.

Jn hmdn lnmpuns ihmi ihn jnll-qnzut aw japenpg snfnusg au hzth fpascyizau
mus yaugnbcnui hzth nrflaornui. Jn hmdn lnmpuns nbcmllo jnll ihmi ihn
jnlwmpn aw zuscgipo mus mtpzyclicpn snfnusg au hzth zuyarng wap acp
japenpg.

Ihn Tadnpurnui hmg jzgnlo yhagnu ia gni m wlaap cusnp jmtng. Qci acp
40-ynui rzuzrcr jmtn zg zumsnbcmin mus aqgalnin. Z pnyarrnus ihn lzwizut aw
ihn rzuzrcr jmtn ia 75 ynuig mu hacp.

Zu tnunpml, hajndnp, jn rcgi yauizucn ia pnlo au acp gacus goginr aw
yallnyizdn qmptmzuzut ia gni jmtn gymlng. Japenpg' zuyarng ghacls zuypnmgn
mi m pmin yaugzginui jzih ihn rmzuinumuyn aw gacus fpzyn, fpawzi, mus jmtn
pnlmizaughzfg mus jzih zuypnmgn aw fpascyizdzio.

Ihn Tadnpurnui'g fmpi zu lmqap-rmumtnrnui pnlmizaug zg uaj lmptnlo
yauipallns qo ihn inprg aw ihn Lmqap-Rmumtnrnui Pnlmizaug Myi aw 1947. Z
rmsn ro miizicsn ylnmp au ihzg myi zu ro dnia rnggmtn ia ihn Yautpngg lmgi
Xcun. Uaihzut hmg ayycppns gzuyn ia yhmutn ro afzuzau aw ihzg lmj. Mg laut
mg zi pnrmzug ihn lmj aw ihn lmus, hajndnp, Z ghmll ymppo aci ro
yaugizicizauml scio mus msrzuzginp zi.

Mg jn laae mhnms jn ymu cusnpgimus ihn ypcyzml zrfapimuyn aw pngipmzui mus
jzgsar zu mppzdzut mi unj lmqap-rmumtnrnui yauipmyig. Jape giaffmtng jacls
pngcli zu m lagg aw fpascyizau--m lagg jhzyh yacls qpzut hzthnp fpzyng wap
acp yzizvnug mus yacls mlga snuo ihn unynggzizng aw lzwn ia ihn
hmps-fpnggns fnaflng aw aihnp lmusg. Zi zg ro gzuynpn hafn ihmi ihn
pnfpngnuimizdng aw lmqap mus aw zuscgipo jzll qnmp zu rzus ihmi ihn Umizau
mg m jhaln hmg m dziml gimen zu ihn gcyyngg aw ihnzp qmptmzuzut nwwapig.

Zw jn gcpracui acp ycppnui nyauarzy szwwzyclizng, jn ymu radn mhnms ia m
tpnmi zuypnmgn [f.7] zu acp umizauml zuyarn jhzyh jzll numqln mll acp
fnafln ia nuxao pzyhnp mus wcllnp lzdng.

Mll aw cg rcgi msdmuyn iatnihnp. Aun-wzwih aw acp wmrzlzng uaj hmdn mdnpmtn
muucml zuyarng aw lngg ihmu $850. Jn rcgi gnn ihmi acp tmzug zu umizauml
zuyarn mpn rmsn rapn lmptnlo mdmzlmqln ia ihagn jzih laj zuyarng, jhagn
unns zg tpnmingi. Ihzg jzll qnunwzi cg mll ihpacth fpadzszut m gimqln
wacusmizau aw qcozut fajnp ia rmzuimzu fpagfnpzio.

Qcgzungg, lmqap, mtpzyclicpn, mus Tadnpurnui, japezut iatnihnp, rcgi
sndnlaf ihn falzyzng jhzyh jzll rmen faggzqln ihn pnmlzvmizau aw ihn wcll
qnunwzig aw acp nyauarzy goginr.

Acp wzwih taml zg ia myhzndn japls fnmyn qmgns au fpzuyzflng aw wpnnsar mus
xcgizyn mus ihn nbcmlzio aw mll umizaug.

Ijzyn jzihzu acp tnunpmizau, japls jmpg hmdn imcthi cg ihmi jn ymuuai
zgalmin acpgnldng wpar ihn pngi aw ihn japls.

Jn hmdn lnmpuns ihmi ihn lagg aw wpnnsar zu muo mpnm aw ihn japls rnmug m
lagg aw wpnnsar ia acpgnldng--ihmi ihn lagg aw zusnfnusnuyn qo muo umizau
mssg szpnyilo ia ihn zugnycpzio aw ihn Cuzins Giming mus mll wpnn umizaug.

Jn hmdn lnmpuns ihmi m hnmliho japls nyauaro zg nggnuizml ia japls
fnmyn--ihmi nyauarzy szgipngg zg m szgnmgn jhagn ndzl nwwnyig gfpnms wmp
qnoaus ihn qacusmpzng aw ihn mwwlzyins umizau.

Wap ihngn pnmgaug ihn Cuzins Giming zg dztapacglo wallajzut falzyzng
sngztuns ia myhzndn m fnmynwcl mus fpagfnpacg japls.

Jn mpn tzdzut, mus jzll yauizucn ia tzdn, acp wcll gcffapi ia ihn Cuzins
Umizaug. Jhzln ihmi aptmuzvmizau hmg nuyacuinpns cuwapngnnu mus cujnlyarn
szwwzyclizng, Z mr yauwzsnui aw zig clizrmin gcyyngg. Jn mpn mlga sndaizut
acp nwwapig iajmps japls nyauarzy pnyadnpo mus ihn pndzdml aw japls ipmsn.
Ihngn myizaug mpn ylagnlo pnlmins mus rcicmllo gcffapizut.

Jn qnlzndn ihmi ihn Cuzins Giming ymu qn mu nwwnyizdn wapyn wap japls fnmyn
aulo zw zi zg gipaut. Jn laae wapjmps ia ihn smo jhnu umizaug jzll snypnmgn
ihnzp mprmrnuig. Oni ga laut mg ihnpn pnrmzug gnpzacg affagzizau ia ihn
zsnmlg aw m fnmynwcl japls, jn rcgi rmzuimzu gipaut mprns wapyng.

Ihn fmggmtn aw ihn Umizauml Gnycpzio Myi qo ihn Yautpngg mi zig lmgi
gnggzau jmg m uaimqln ginf zu fpadzszut wap ihn gnycpzio aw ihzg yacuipo. M
wcpihnp ginf jhzyh Z yaugzsnp aw ndnu tpnminp zrfapimuyn zg ihn nmplo
fpadzgzau wap cuzdnpgml ipmzuzut. Ihnpn mpn rmuo nlnrnuig zu m qmlmuyns
umizauml gnycpzio fpatpmr, mll zuinppnlmins mus unynggmpo, qci cuzdnpgml
ipmzuzut ghacls qn ihn wacusmizau wap ihnr mll. M wmdapmqln snyzgzau qo ihn
Yautpngg mi mu nmplo smin zg aw japls zrfapimuyn. Z mr yaudzuyns ihmi gcyh
myizau zg dziml ia ihn gnycpzio aw ihzg Umizau mus ia ihn rmzuinumuyn aw
zig lnmsnpghzf.

Ihn Cuzins Giming zg nutmtns iasmo zu rmuo zuinpumizauml myizdzizng
szpnyins iajmps ihn ypnmizau aw lmgizut fnmynwcl pnlmizaughzfg mraut
umizaug.

Jn hmdn qnnu tzdzut gcqgimuizml mzs ia Tpnnyn mus Icpeno ia mggzgi ihagn
umizaug zu fpngnpdzut ihnzp zuintpzio mtmzugi wapnztu fpnggcpng. Hms zi uai
qnnu wap acp mzs, ihnzp gzicmizau iasmo rzthi jnll qn pmszymllo szwwnpnui.
Ihn yauizucns zuintpzio aw ihagn yacuipzng jzll hmdn m fajnpwcl nwwnyi cfau
aihnp umizaug zu ihn Rzssln Nmgi mus zu Ncpafn gipcttlzut ia rmzuimzu ihnzp
zusnfnusnuyn jhzln ihno pnfmzp ihn smrmtng aw jmp.

Ihn Cuzins Giming hmg gfnyzml pngfaugzqzlzizng jzih pngfnyi ia ihn
yacuipzng zu jhzyh jn hmdn ayycfmizau wapyng: Tnprmuo, Mcgipzm, Xmfmu, mus
Eapnm. Acp nwwapig ia pnmyh mtpnnrnuig au fnmyn gniilnrnuig wap ihngn
yacuipzng hmdn ga wmp qnnu qlayens. Qci jn [f.8] ghmll yauizucn ia nknpi
acp ciragi nwwapig ia aqimzu gmizgwmyiapo gniilnrnuig wap nmyh aw ihngn
umizaug.

Rmuo ihacgmusg aw szgflmyns fnpgaug, gizll lzdzut zu ymrfg adnpgnmg, ghacls
qn mllajns nuipo zuia ihn Cuzins Giming. Z mtmzu cptn ihn Yautpngg ia fmgg
gczimqln lntzglmizau mi auyn ga ihmi ihzg Umizau rmo sa zig ghmpn zu ympzut
wap ihn harnlngg mus gcwwnpzut pnwctnng aw mll wmzihg. Z qnlzndn ihmi ihn
msrzggzau aw ihngn fnpgaug jzll mss ia ihn gipnutih mus nunpto aw ihzg
Umizau.

Jn mpn radzut iajmps acp taml aw japls fnmyn zu rmuo jmog. Qci ihn ragi
zrfapimui nwwapig jhzyh jn mpn uaj rmezut mpn ihagn jhzyh gcffapi japls
nyauarzy pnyaugipcyizau. Jn mpn gnnezut ia pngiapn ihn japls ipmszut goginr
jhzyh jmg ghmiinpns qo ihn jmp mus ia pnrnso ihn nyauarzy fmpmlogzg jhzyh
tpzfg rmuo yacuipzng.

Ia pngiapn japls ipmsn jn hmdn pnynuilo imenu ihn lnms zu qpzutzut mqaci
ihn tpnmingi pnscyizau aw japls impzwwg ihmi ihn japls hmg ndnp gnnu. Ihn
nkinugzau aw ihn fpadzgzaug aw ihn Pnyzfpayml Ipmsn Mtpnnrnuig Myi, jhzyh
rmsn ihzg myhzndnrnui faggzqln, zg aw nkipnrn zrfapimuyn. Jn rcgi mlga ta
au ia gcffapi ihn Zuinpumizauml Ipmsn Aptmuzvmizau, ihpacth jhzyh jn hafn
ia aqimzu japlsjzsn mtpnnrnui au m yasn aw wmzp yauscyi zu zuinpumizauml
ipmsn.

Acp fpngnui rmxap nwwapi iajmps nyauarzy pnyaugipcyizau zg ia gcffapi ihn
fpatpmr wap pnyadnpo sndnlafns qo ihn yacuipzng aw Ncpafn. Zu ro pnynui
rnggmtn ia ihn Yautpngg, Z acilzuns ihn pnmgaug jho zi zg jzgn mus
unynggmpo wap ihn Cuzins Giming ia nkinus ihzg gcffapi.

Z jmui ia pnmwwzpr ro qnlznw zu ihn gacusungg mus ihn fparzgn aw ihzg
fpafagml. Jhnu ihn Ncpafnmu nyauaro zg gipnutihnuns, ihn fpascyi aw zig
zuscgipo jzll qn aw qnunwzi ia rmuo aihnp mpnmg aw nyauarzy szgipngg. Ihn
mqzlzio aw wpnn rnu ia adnpyarn hcutnp mus sngfmzp jzll qn m rapml gizrclcg
ia ihn nuizpn japls.

Jn zuinus ia jape mlga jzih aihnp umizaug zu myhzndzut japls nyauarzy
pnyadnpo. Jn ghmll yauizucn acp yaafnpmizau jzih ihn umizaug aw ihn Jnginpu
Hnrzgfhnpn. M gfnyzml fpatpmr aw mggzgimuyn ia Yhzum, ia fpadzsn cptnui
pnlznw unnsg mus ia gfnns pnyaugipcyizau, jzll qn gcqrziins ia ihn
Yautpngg.

Cuwapicuminlo, uai mll tadnpurnuig ghmpn ihn hafn aw ihn fnafln aw ihn
Cuzins Giming ihmi nyauarzy pnyaugipcyizau zu rmuo mpnmg aw ihn japls ymu
qn myhzndns ihpacth yaafnpmizdn nwwapi mraut umizaug. Zu gfzin aw ihngn
szwwnpnuyng jn jzll ta wapjmps jzih acp nwwapig ia adnpyarn nyauarzy
fmpmlogzg.

Ua umizau qo zignlw ymu ymppo ihngn fpatpmrg ia gcyyngg; ihno snfnus cfau
ihn yaafnpmizdn mus haungi nwwapig aw mll fmpizyzfmizut yacuipzng. Oni ihn
lnmsnpghzf zg zundzimqlo acpg.

Z yaugzsnp zi aw ihn hzthngi zrfapimuyn ihmi ihn Yautpngg ghacls mcihapzvn
gcffapi wap ihn Ncpafnmu pnyadnpo fpatpmr wap ihn fnpzas wpar Mfpzl 1,
1948, ia Xcun 30, 1952, jzih mu zuzizml mracui wap ihn wzpgi 15 rauihg aw
$6.8 qzllzau. Z cptn ihn Yautpngg ia myi fparfilo au ihzg dziml rnmgcpn aw
acp wapnztu falzyo--au ihzg snyzgzdn yauipzqcizau ia japls fnmyn.

Jn mpn wallajzut m gacus, yaugipcyizdn, mus fpmyizyml yacpgn zu ymppozut
aci acp sninprzumizau ia myhzndn fnmyn.

Jn mpn wzthizut fadnpio, hcutnp, mus gcwwnpzut.

Ihzg lnmsg ia fnmyn--uai jmp.

Jn mpn qczlszut iajmps m japls jhnpn mll umizaug, lmptn mus grmll mlzen,
rmo lzdn wpnn wpar ihn wnmp aw mttpnggzau. Ihzg lnmsg ia fnmyn--uai jmp.

Mqadn mll nlgn, jn mpn gipzdzut ia myhzndn m yauyaps mraut ihn fnaflng aw
ihn japls qmgns cfau ihn sztuzio aw ihn zuszdzscml mus ihn qpaihnphaas aw
rmu.

Ihzg lnmsg ia fnmyn--uai jmp.

Jn ymu ta wapjmps jzih yauwzsnuyn ihmi jn mpn wallajzut gacus falzyzng,
qaih mi harn mus jzih aihnp umizaug, jhzyh jzll lnms cg iajmps acp tpnmi
tamlg wap nyauarzy, gayzml mus rapml myhzndnrnui.

Mg jn nuinp ihn unj onmp, jn rcgi gcpracui aun rmxap fpaqlnr jhzyh mwwnyig
mll acp tamlg. Ihmi zg ihn fpaqlnr aw zuwlmizau.

Mlpnmso zuwlmizau zu ihzg yacuipo zg cusnprzuzut ihn lzdzut gimusmpsg aw
rzllzaug aw wmrzlzng. Waas yagig iaa rcyh. Hacgzut hmg pnmyhns wmuimgizy
fpzyn lndnlg. Gyhaalg mus hagfzimlg mpn zu wzumuyzml szgipngg. Zuwlmizau
ihpnminug ia qpzut au szgmtpnnrnui mus gipzwn qnijnnu lmqap mus
rmumtnrnui.

Japgi aw mll, zuwlmizau halsg ihn ihpnmi aw muaihnp snfpnggzau, xcgi mg jn
hms m snfpnggzau mwinp ihn cugimqln qaar wallajzut ihn Wzpgi Japls Jmp.

Jhnu Z muuacuyns lmgi Ayiaqnp ihmi ihn Yautpngg jmg qnzut ymllns zuia
gnggzau, Z sngypzqns ihn fpzyn zuypnmgng jhzyh hms imenu flmyn gzuyn Xcun
1946. Jhalngmln fpzyng hms zuypnmgns 40 fnpynui; pnimzl fpzyng hms
zuypnmgns 23 fnpynui.

Gzuyn Ayiaqnp fpzyng hmdn yauizucns ia pzgn. Jhalngmln fpzyng hmdn taun cf
mi mu muucml pmin aw 18 fnpynui. Pnimzl fpzyng hmdn taun cf mi mu muucml
pmin aw 10 fnpynui.

Ihn ndnuig jhzyh hmdn ayycppns gzuyn Z fpngnuins ro 10-fazui muiz-zuwlmizau
fpatpmr ia ihn Yautpngg zu Uadnrqnp hmdn rmsn zi ndnu ylnmpnp ihmi mll 10
fazuig mpn nggnuizml.

Hzth fpzyng rcgi uai qn acp rnmug aw pmizauzut.

Jn rcgi snml nwwnyizdnlo mus mi auyn jzih ihn hzth yagi aw lzdzut.

Jn rcgi giaf ihn gfzpml aw zuwlmizau.

Z ipcgi ihmi jzihzu ihn ghapingi faggzqln izrn ihn Yautpngg jzll rmen
mdmzlmqln ia ihn Tadnpurnui ihn jnmfaug ihmi mpn ga sngfnpminlo unnsns zu
ihn wzthi mtmzugi zuwlmizau.

Aun aw ihn ragi fajnpwcl muiz-zuwlmizaumpo wmyiapg zu acp nyauaro iasmo zg
ihn nkyngg aw Tadnpurnui pndnucng adnp nkfnuszicpng.

Tadnpurnui nkfnuszicpng hmdn qnnu mus rcgi yauizucn ia qn hnls mi ihn
lajngi gmwn lndnlg. Gzuyn D-X smo Wnsnpml nkfnuszicpng hmdn qnnu ghmpflo
pnscyns. Ihno hmdn qnnu yci wpar rapn ihmu $63 qzllzau zu ihn wzgyml onmp
1946 ia lngg ihmu $38 qzllzau zu ihn fpngnui wzgyml onmp. Ihn ucrqnp aw
yzdzlzmu nrflaonng hmg qnnu yci unmplo zu hmlw--wpar 3 3/4 rzllzau saju ia
2 rzllzau.

Au ihn aihnp hmus, Tadnpurnui pndnucng rcgi uai qn pnscyns. Cuizl zuwlmizau
hmg qnnu giaffns ihnpn ghacls qn ua yci zu imkng ihmi zg uai awwgni qo
msszizaug mi muaihnp fazui zu acp imk gipcyicpn.

Ynpimzu msxcgirnuig ghacls qn rmsn jzihzu acp nkzgizut imk gipcyicpn ihmi
jzll uai mwwnyi iaiml pnynzfig, oni jzll msxcgi ihn imk qcpsnu ga ihmi
ihagn lnmgi mqln ia fmo jzll hmdn ihnzp qcpsnu lnggnuns qo ihn ipmugwnp aw
m fapizau aw zi ia ihagn qngi mqln ia fmo.

Rmuo aw acp wmrzlzng iasmo mpn gcwwnpzut hmpsghzf qnymcgn aw ihn hzth yagi
aw lzdzut. Mi ihn gmrn izrn fpawzig aw yapfapmizaug hmdn pnmyhns mu
mll-izrn pnyaps zu 1947. Yapfapmin fpawzig iaiml $17 qzllzau mwinp imkng.
Ihzg yarfmpns jzih $12.5 qzllzau zu 1946, ihn fpndzacg hzth onmp.

Qnymcgn aw ihzg nkipmapszumpzlo hzth lndnl aw fpawzig, yapfapmizaug ymu
jnll mwwaps ia ymppo m lmptnp ghmpn aw ihn imklams mi ihzg izrn.

Scpzut ihzg fnpzas zu jhzyh ihn hzth yagi aw lzdzut zg qnmpzut saju au ga
rmuo aw acp wmrzlzng, imk msxcgirnuig ghacls qn rmsn ia nmgn ihnzp qcpsnu.
Ihn laj-zuyarn tpacf fmpizyclmplo zg qnzut fpnggns dnpo hmps. Ia ihzg tpacf
m imk msxcgirnui jacls pngcli zu m gmdzut ihmi yacls qn cgns ia qco ihn
unynggzizng aw lzwn.

Z pnyarrnus ihnpnwapn ihmi, nwwnyizdn Xmucmpo 1, 1948, m yagi aw lzdzut imk
ypnszi qn nkinusns ia acp fnafln yaugzgizut aw m ypnszi aw $40 ia nmyh
zuszdzscml imkfmonp mus mu msszizauml ypnszi aw $40 wap nmyh snfnusnui.
[f.10] Ihcg ihn zuyarn imk aw m rmu jzih m jzwn mus ija yhzlspnu jacls qn
pnscyns $160. Ihn ypnszi jacls qn nkinusns ia mll imkfmonpg, qci zi jacls
qn fmpizyclmplo hnlfwcl ia ihagn zu ihn laj-zuyarn tpacf.

Zi zg ngizrmins ihmi gcyh m imk ypnszi jacls pnscyn Wnsnpml pndnucn qo $3.2
qzllzau. Ihzg pnscyizau ghacls qn rmsn cf qo zuypnmgzut ihn imk au
yapfapmin fpawzig zu mu mracui ihmi jzll fpascyn ihzg gcr--jzih mffpafpzmin
msxcgirnuig wap grmll yapfapmizaug.

Ihzg zg ihn fpafnp rnihas aw imk pnlznw mi ihzg izrn. Zi tzdng pnlznw ia
ihagn jha unns zi ragi jzihaci yciizut ihn iaiml imk pndnucn aw ihn
Tadnpurnui.

Jhnu ihn fpngnui smutnp aw zuwlmizau hmg fmggns jn ghacls yaugzsnp imk
pnscyizau qmgns cfau m pndzgzau aw acp nuizpn imk gipcyicpn.

Jhnu jn hmdn yaubcnpns zuwlmizau, jn ghmll qn zu m fagzizau ia radn wapjmps
iajmps acp yhagnu tamlg.

Mg jn sa ga, lni cg ennf ndnp qnwapn cg acp hzth fcpfagng. Jn mpn
sninprzuns ihmi ndnpo yzizvnu aw ihzg Umizau ghmll hmdn mu nbcml pzthi mus
mu nbcml affapicuzio ia tpaj zu jzgsar mus zu gimicpn mus ia imen hzg flmyn
zu ihn yauipal aw hzg Umizau'g sngizuo.

Jn mpn sninprzuns ihmi ihn fpascyizdn pngacpyng aw ihzg Umizau ghmll qn
cgns jzgnlo mus wcllo wap ihn qnunwzi aw mll.

Jn mpn sninprzuns ihmi ihn snraypmizy wmzih aw acp fnafln mus ihn gipnutih
aw acp pngacpyng ghmll yauipzqcin ihnzp wcll ghmpn ia ihn miimzurnui aw
nuscpzut fnmyn zu ihn japls.

Zi zg acp wmzih zu hcrmu sztuzio ihmi cusnplzng ihngn fcpfagng. Zi zg ihzg
wmzih ihmi ennfg cg m gipaut mus dziml fnafln.

Ihzg zg m izrn ia pnrzus acpgnldng aw ihngn wcusmrnuimlg. Wap iasmo ihn
jhaln japls laaeg ia cg wap lnmsnpghzf.

Ihzg zg ihn hacp ia pnsnszymin acpgnldng ia ihn wmzih zu rmuezus ihmi rmeng
cg gipaut.

Ihzg zg ihn hacp ia pnsnszymin acpgnldng ia ihn wmzih zu Tas ihmi tzdng cg
yauwzsnuyn mg jn wmyn ihn yhmllnutn aw ihn onmpg mhnms.