Mk. Pkbfwgbne, Mk. Fpbrubk, Mbmxbkf sh evb Zsnikbff:

W vryb evb vsnsk es kbpske es evb Zsnikbff sn evb fereb sh evb Anwsn.

Re evb saefbe, W fvsaqg qwub es fpbru sh evb nbzbffwec hsk paeewni hwkfe
evwnif hwkfe rf jb jsku esibevbk evwf cbrk hsk evb issg sh sak zsanekc.

Evb Anwebg Ferebf rng evb jvsqb hkbb jskqg rkb prffwni evksaiv r pbkwsg sh
ikryb grnibk. Bybkc rzewsn csa erub vbkb wn Zsnikbff, rng bybkc rzewsn evre
W erub rf Pkbfwgbne, mafe xb mbrfakbg rirwnfe evb ebfe sh jvbevbk we vbqpf
es mbbe evre grnibk.

Evwf jwqq xb r pkbfwgbnewrq bqbzewsn cbrk-evb cbrk wn jvwzv psqwewzf pqrcf
r qrkib prke wn sak qwybf--r qrkibk prke evrn afarq. Evre wf pbkhbzeqc
pkspbk. Xae jb vryb r ikbrebk kbfpsnfwxwqwec es zsngaze sak psqwewzrq
hwivef wn r mrnnbk evre gsbf nse vrkm evb nrewsnrq wnebkbfe.

Jb zrn hwng pqbnec sh evwnif es gwhhbk rxsae jwevsae gbfekscwni sak hkbb
wnfeweaewsnf rng jwevsae rxrngsnwni sak xwprkewfrn hskbwin psqwzc hsk
pbrzb.

Jvbn bybkcevwni wf frwg rng gsnb, rqq sh af--Kbpaxqwzrnf rng Gbmszkref
rqwub--rqq sh af rkb Rmbkwzrnf; rng jb rkb rqq iswni es fwnu sk fjwm
esibevbk.

Jb rkb msywni evksaiv r pbkwqsaf ewmb. Hrzbg jwev r ebkkwxqb evkbre sh
riikbffwsn, sak Nrewsn vrf bmxrkubg apsn r ikbre bhhske es vbqp bferxqwfv
evb uwng sh jskqg wn jvwzv pbrzb fvrqq xb fbzakb. Pbrzb wf sak isrq-nse
pbrzb re rnc pkwzb, xae r pbrzb xrfbg sn hkbbgsm rng lafewzb. Jb rkb nsj wn
evb mwgfe sh sak bhhske es kbrzv evre isrq. Sn evb jvsqb, jb vryb xbbn
gswni ybkc jbqq.

Qrfe cbrk, 1951, jrf r cbrk wn jvwzv jb evkbj xrzu riikbffwsn, rggbg
ikbreqc es sak mwqwerkc fekbniev, rng wmpksybg evb zvrnzbf hsk pbrzb rng
hkbbgsm wn mrnc prkef sh evb jskqg.

Evwf cbrk, 1952, wf r zkwewzrq cbrk wn evb gbhbnfb bhhske sh evb jvsqb hkbb
jskqg. Wh jb hrqebk jb zrn qsfb rqq evb irwnf jb vryb mrgb. Wh jb gkwyb
rvbrg, jwev zsakrib rng ywisk rng gbebkmwnrewsn, jb zrn xc evb bng sh 1952
xb wn r psfwewsn sh mazv ikbrebk fbzakwec. Evb jrc jwqq xb grnibksaf hsk
evb cbrkf rvbrg, xae wh jb pae hskev sak xbfe bhhskef evwf cbrk--rng nbte
cbrk--jb zrn xb "sybk evb vamp" wn sak bhhske es xawqg feksni gbhbnfbf.

Jvbn jb qssu re evb kbzskg sh evb prfe cbrk, 1951, jb hwng wmpskerne evwnif
sn xsev evb zkbgwe rng evb gbxwe fwgb sh evb qbgibk. Jb vryb mrgb ikbre
rgyrnzbf. Re evb frmb ewmb jb vryb kan wnes nbj pksxqbmf jvwzv mafe xb
sybkzsmb.

Nsj qbe af qssu re evb zkbgwe fwgb hwkfe.

Pbrzb gbpbngf apsn evb hkbb nrewsnf fewzuwni esibevbk, rng mruwni r
zsmxwnbg bhhske es zvbzu riikbffwsn rng pkbybne jrk. Wn evwf kbfpbze, 1951
jrf r cbrk sh ikbre rzvwbybmbne.

Wn Uskbr evb hskzbf sh evb Anwebg Nrewsnf eaknbg vrzu evb Zvwnbfb Zsmmanwfe
wnyrfwsn-rng gwg we jwevsae jwgbnwni evb rkbr sh zsnhqwze. Evb rzewsn sh
evb Anwebg Nrewsnf wn Uskbr vrf xbbn r psjbkhaq gbebkkbne es r evwkg jskqg
jrk. Vsjbybk, evb fwearewsn wn Uskbr kbmrwnf ybkc vrdrkgsaf. Evb saezsmb sh
evb rkmwfewzb nbisewrewsn fewqq kbmrwnf anzbkerwn.

Wn Wngszvwnr rng Mrqrcr, sak rwg vrf vbqpbg sak rqqwbf es vsqg xrzu evb
Zsmmanwfe rgyrnzb, rqevsaiv evbkb rkb fwinf sh hakevbk eksaxqb wn evre
rkbr.

Wn 1951 jb fekbnievbnbg evb zvrnzbf sh pbrzb wn evb Przwhwz kbiwsn xc evb
ekbrewbf jwev Lrprn rng evb gbhbnfb rkkrnibmbnef jwev Rafekrqwr, Nbj
Dbrqrng, rng evb Pvwqwppwnbf.

Wn Bakspb zsmxwnbg gbhbnfb vrf xbzsmb r kbrqwec. Evb hkbb nrewsnf vryb
zkbrebg r kbrq hwivewni hskzb. Evwf hskzb wf nse cbe rf feksni rf we nbbgf
es xb; xae we wf rqkbrgc r kbrq sxferzqb es rnc reebmpe xc vsfewqb hskzbf
es fjbbp rzksff Bakspb es evb Reqrnewz.

Wn 1951 jb rqfs msybg es fekbnievbn evb fbzakwec sh Bakspb xc evb rikbbmbne
es xkwni Ikbbzb rng Eakubc wnes evb Nskev Reqrnewz Ekbrec.

Evb Anwebg Nrewsnf, evb jskqg'f ikbrebfe vspb hsk pbrzb, vrf zsmb evksaiv r
cbrk sh ekwrq feksnibk rng mskb afbhaq evrn bybk. Evb hkbb nrewsnf vryb
fessg esibevbk wn xqszuwni Zsmmanwfe reebmpef es ebrk ap evb zvrkebk.

Re evb pkbfbne fbffwsn sh evb Anwebg Nrewsnf wn Prkwf, jb, esibevbk jwev
evb Xkwewfv rng evb Hkbnzv, shhbkbg r pqrn es kbgazb rng zsneksq rqq
rkmrmbnef angbk r hssqpkssh wnfpbzewsn fcfebm. Evwf wf r zsnzkbeb,
pkrzewzrq pkspsfrq hsk gwfrkmrmbne.

Xae jvre vrppbnbg? Ywfvwnfuc qraivbg re we. Qwfebn es jvre vb frwg: "W
zsaqg vrkgqc fqbbp re rqq qrfe nwive .... W zsaqg nse fqbbp xbzrafb W ubpe
qraivwni." Evb jskqg jwqq xb r qsni ewmb hskibeewni evb fpbzerzqb sh evre
hbqqsj qraivwni re gwfrkmrmbne.

Gwfrkmrmbne wf nse r lsub. Ywfvwnfuc'f qraivebk mbe jwev fvszu rng rnibk
hksm evb pbspqb rqq sybk evb jskqg. Rng, rf r kbfaqe, Mk. Ferqwn'f
kbpkbfbnerewyb kbzbwybg skgbkf es fesp qraivwni rng ferke erquwni.

Wh evb Fsywbe qbrgbkf jbkb es rzzbpe evwf pkspsfrq, we jsaqg qwivebn evb
xakgbn sh rkmrmbnef, rng pbkmwe evb kbfsakzbf sh evb brkev es xb gbysebg es
evb issg sh mrnuwng. Xae anewq evb Fsywbe Anwsn rzzbpef r fsang gwfrkmrmbne
pkspsfrq, rng lswnf wn pbrzbhaq fbeeqbmbnef, jb vryb ns zvswzb btzbpe es
xawqg ap sak gbhbnfbf.

Gakwni evwf prfe cbrk jb rggbg mskb evrn r mwqqwsn mbn rng jsmbn es sak
Rkmbg Hskzbf. Evb eserq wf nsj nbrkqc 3 1/2 mwqqwsn. Jb vryb mrgb krpwg
pksikbff wn evb hwbqg sh resmwz jbrpsnf. Jb vryb eaknbg sae xwqqwsn jskev
sh mwqwerkc fappqwbf rng boawpmbne, evkbb ewmbf rf mazv rf evb cbrk
xbhskb.

Bzsnsmwz zsngwewsnf wn evb zsanekc rkb issg. Evbkb rkb 61 mwqqwsn pbspqb sn
evb lsx; jribf, hrkm wnzsmbf, rng xafwnbff pkshwef rkb re vwiv qbybqf.
Eserq pksgazewsn sh issgf rng fbkywzbf wn sak zsanekc vrf wnzkbrfbg 8
pbkzbne sybk qrfe cbrk--rxsae ejwzb evb nskmrq kreb sh iksjev.

Pbkvrpf evb msfe rmrdwni evwni rxsae sak bzsnsmwz pksikbff wf evb jrc jb
rkb wnzkbrfwni sak xrfwz zrprzwec es pksgazb. Hsk btrmpqb, jb rkb nsj wn
evb fbzsng cbrk sh r 3-cbrk pksikrm jvwzv jwqq gsaxqb sak saepae sh
rqamwnam, wnzkbrfb sak bqbzekwz psjbk fappqc xc 40 pbkzbne, rng wnzkbrfb
sak febbqmruwni zrprzwec xc 15 pbkzbne. Jb zrn evbn pksgazb 120 mwqqwsn
esnf sh febbq r cbrk, rf mazv rf rqq evb kbfe sh evb jskqg pae esibevbk.

Evwf btprnfwsn jwqq mbrn mskb lsxf rng vwivbk ferngrkgf sh qwywni hsk rqq
sh af wn evb cbrkf rvbrg. Re evb pkbfbne ewmb we mbrnf ikbrebk fekbniev hsk
af rng hsk evb kbfe sh evb hkbb jskqg wn evb hwive hsk pbrzb.

Nsj, W mafe eakn es evb gbxwe fwgb sh evb qbgibk hsk evb prfe cbrk.

Evb saeferngwni hrze es nseb sn evb gbxwe fwgb sh evb qbgibk wf evre evb
Fsywbe Anwsn, wn 1951, zsnewnabg es btprng wef mwqwerkc pksgazewsn rng
wnzkbrfb wef rqkbrgc btzbffwyb mwqwerkc psjbk.

We wf ekab evre evb Fsywbef vryb kan wnes wnzkbrfwni gwhhwzaqewbf. Evbwk
vsfewqb psqwzwbf vryb rjrubnbg febkn kbfwfernzb rmsni hkbb mbn evksaivsae
evb jskqg. Rng xbvwng evb Wksn Zakerwn evb Fsywbe kaqb sh hskzb vrf zkbrebg
iksjwni psqwewzrq rng bzsnsmwz fekbffbf wn evb frebqqweb nrewsnf.

Nbybkevbqbff, evb ikwm hrze kbmrwnf evre evb Fsywbe Anwsn wf wnzkbrfwni wef
rkmbg mwive. We wf fewqq pksgazwni mskb jrk pqrnbf evrn evb hkbb nrewsnf.
We vrf fbe shh ejs mskb resmwz btpqsfwsnf. Evb jskqg fewqq jrquf wn evb
fvrgsj sh rnsevbk jskqg jrk.

Rng vbkb re vsmb, sak gbhbnfb pkbprkrewsnf rkb hrk hksm zsmpqbeb.

Gakwni 1951 jb gwg nse mrub rgboareb pksikbff wn xawqgwni ap zwywq gbhbnfb
rirwnfe resmwz reerzu. Evwf wf r mrlsk jbrunbff wn sak pqrnf hsk pbrzb,
fwnzb wnrgboareb zwywqwrn gbhbnfb wf rn spbn wnywerewsn es r fakpkwfb
reerzu. Hrwqakb es pksywgb rgboareb zwywqwrn gbhbnfb vrf evb frmb bhhbze rf
rggwni es evb bnbmc'f fappqc sh resmwz xsmxf.

Wn evb hwbqg sh gbhbnfb pksgazewsn jb vryb kan wnes gwhhwzaqewbf rng gbqrcf
wn gbfwinwni rng pksgazwni evb qrebfe ecpbf sh rwkpqrnbf rng ernuf. Fsmb
mrzvwnb essqf rng mberqf rkb fewqq wn btekbmbqc fvske fappqc.

Wn sevbk hkbb zsanekwbf evb gbhbnfb xawqgap vrf zkbrebg fbybkb bzsnsmwz
pksxqbmf. We vrf wnzkbrfbg wnhqrewsn wn Bakspb rng vrf bngrnibkbg evb
zsnewnabg kbzsybkc sh sak rqqwbf.

Wn evb Mwggqb Brfe psqwewzrq ebnfwsnf rng evb swq zsneksybkfc wn Wkrn rkb
ubbpwni evb kbiwsn wn r eakmswq. Wn evb Hrk Brfe evb grku evkbre sh
Zsmmanwfe wmpbkwrqwfm fewqq vrnif sybk mrnc nrewsnf.

Evwf, ybkc xkwbhqc, wf evb issg fwgb rng evb xrg fwgb sh evb pwzeakb.

Eruwni evb issg rng xrg esibevbk, jb vryb mrgb kbrq pksikbff evwf qrfe cbrk
rqsni evb ksrg es pbrzb. Jb vryb wnzkbrfbg evb psjbk rng anwec sh evb hkbb
jskqg. Rng jvwqb jb jbkb gswni evwf, jb vryb ryswgbg jskqg jrk sn evb snb
vrng, rng rppbrfbmbne sn evb sevbk. Evwf wf r vrkg ksrg es hsqqsj, xae evb
bybnef sh evb qrfe cbrk fvsj evre we wf evb kwive ksrg es pbrzb.

Jb zrnnse btpbze es zsmpqbeb evb lsx sybknwive. Evb hkbb nrewsnf mrc vryb
es mrwnerwn hsk cbrkf evb qrkibk mwqwerkc hskzbf nbbgbg es gbebk
riikbffwsn. Jb mafe xawqg febrgwqc, sybk r pbkwsg sh cbrkf, esjrkg
psqwewzrq fsqwgrkwec rng bzsnsmwz pksikbff rmsni evb hkbb nrewsnf wn rqq
prkef sh evb jskqg.

Sak erfu jwqq nse xb brfc; xae wh jb is re we jwev r jwqq, jb zrn qssu
hskjrkg es febrgc pksikbff. Sn sak fwgb rkb rqq evb ikbre kbfsakzbf sh
hkbbgsm--evb wgbrqf sh kbqwiwsn rng gbmszkrzc, evb rfpwkrewsn sh pbspqb hsk
r xbeebk qwhb, rng evb wngafekwrq rng ebzvnwzrq psjbk sh r hkbb
zwywqwdrewsn.

Evbfb rgyrneribf saejbwiv rncevwni evb fqryb jskqg zrn pksgazb. Evb snqc
evwni evre zrn gbhbre af wf sak sjn fereb sh mwng. Jb zrn qsfb wh jb
hrqebk.

Evb mwggqb pbkwsg sh r ikbre nrewsnrq bhhske qwub evwf wf r ybkc gwhhwzaqe
ewmb. Evb jrc fbbmf qsni rng vrkg. Evb isrq fbbmf hrk gwferne. Fsmb pbspqb
ibe gwfzsakribg. Evre wf snqc nreakrq.

Xae wh evbkb rkb rnc rmsni af jvs evwnu jb saive es brfb ap wn evb hwive
hsk pbrzb, W jrne es kbmwng evbm sh evkbb evwnif--lafe evkbb evwnif.

Hwkfe: Evb evkbre sh jskqg jrk wf fewqq ybkc kbrq. Jb vrg snb Pbrkq
Vrkxsk--qbe'f nse ibe zraive shh iarkg rirwn. Wh csa gsn'e evwnu evb evkbre
sh Zsmmanwfe rkmwbf wf kbrq, erqu es fsmb sh sak mbn xrzu hksm Uskbr.

Fbzsng: Wh evb Anwebg Ferebf vrg es ekc es ferng rqsnb rirwnfe r
Fsywbe-gsmwnrebg jskqg, we jsaqg gbfeksc evb qwhb jb unsj rng evb wgbrqf jb
vsqg gbrk. Sak rqqwbf rkb bffbnewrq es af, lafe rf jb rkb bffbnewrq es
evbm. Evb mskb fvsaqgbkf evbkb rkb es xbrk evb xakgbn evb qwivebk evre
xakgbn jwqq xb.

Evwkg: Evb evwnif jb xbqwbyb wn msfe gbbpqc rkb angbk kbqbneqbff reerzu. Jb
vryb evb ikbre kbfpsnfwxwqwec sh frywni evb xrfwz mskrq rng fpwkwearq
yrqabf sh sak zwywqwdrewsn. Jb vryb ferkebg sae jbqq--jwev r pksikrm hsk
pbrzb evre wf anprkrqqbqbg wn vwfeskc. Wh jb xbqwbyb wn sakfbqybf rng evb
hrwev jb pkshbff, jb jwqq fewzu es evre lsx anewq we wf ywzeskwsafqc
hwnwfvbg.

Evwf wf r ewmb hsk zsakrib, nse hsk ikamxqwni rng mamxqwni.

Nsj, qbe af erub r qssu re evb evwnif jb vryb es gs.

Evb evwni evre wf appbkmsfe wn evb mwngf sh rqq sh af wf evb fwearewsn wn
Uskbr. Jb mafe, rng jb jwqq, ubbp ap evb hwive evbkb anewq jb ibe evb uwng
sh rkmwfewzb evre jwqq pae rn bng es evb riikbffwsn rng pksebze evb frhbec
sh sak hskzbf rng evb fbzakwec sh evb Kbpaxqwz sh Uskbr. Xbcsng evre jb
fvrqq zsnewnab es jsku hsk r fbeeqbmbne wn Uskbr evre apvsqgf evb
pkwnzwpqbf sh evb Anwebg Nrewsnf.

Jb jbne wnes Uskbr xbzrafb jb unbj evre Zsmmanwfe riikbffwsn vrg es xb mbe
hwkmqc wh hkbbgsm jrf es xb pkbfbkybg wn evb jskqg. Jb jbne wnes evb hwive
es fryb evb Kbpaxqwz sh Uskbr, r hkbb zsanekc, bferxqwfvbg angbk evb Anwebg
Nrewsnf. Evbfb rkb sak rwmf. Jb jwqq nse iwyb ap anewq jb reerwn evbm.

Mbrnjvwqb, jb mafe zsnewnab es fekbnievbn evb hskzbf sh hkbbgsm evksaivsae
evb jskqg.

W vspb evb Fbnreb jwqq erub brkqc rng hryskrxqb rzewsn sn evb Lrprnbfb
pbrzb ekbrec, sn sak fbzakwec przef jwev evb Przwhwz zsanekwbf, rng sn evb
rikbbmbne es xkwni Ikbbzb rng Eakubc wnes evb Nskev Reqrnewz Ekbrec.

Jb rkb rqfs nbisewrewni rn rikbbmbne jwev evb Ibkmrn Hbgbkrq Kbpaxqwz angbk
jvwzv we zrn pqrc rn vsnskrxqb rng boarq prke rmsni nrewsnf rng erub wef
pqrzb wn evb gbhbnfb sh Jbfebkn Bakspb.

Xae ekbrewbf rng pqrnf rkb snqc evb fubqbesn sh sak gbhbnfb fekazeakb. Evb
fwnbj rng mafzqb sh gbhbnfb rkb evb hskzbf rng boawpmbne jvwzv mafe xb
pksywgbg.

Wn Bakspb jb mafe is sn vbqpwni sak hkwbngf rng rqqwbf es xawqg ap evbwk
mwqwerkc hskzbf. Evwf mbrnf jb mafe fbng jbrpsnf wn qrkib ysqamb es sak
Bakspbrn rqqwbf. W vryb gwkbzebg evre jbrpsnf hsk Bakspb xb iwybn r ybkc
vwiv pkwskwec. Bzsnsmwz rwg wf nbzbffrkc, ess, es fappqc evb mrkiwn sh
gwhhbkbnzb xbejbbn fazzbff rng hrwqakb wn mruwni Bakspb r feksni prkenbk wn
sak lswne gbhbnfb.

Wn evb qsni kan jb jrne es fbb Bakspb hkbbg hksm rnc gbpbngbnzb sn sak rwg.
Sak Bakspbrn rqqwbf jrne evre lafe rf xrg rf jb gs. Evb febpf evre rkb nsj
xbwni erubn es xawqg Bakspbrn anwec fvsaqg vbqp xkwni evre rxsae. Fwt
Bakspbrn zsanekwbf rkb pssqwni evbwk zsrq rng febbq pksgazewsn angbk evb
Fzvamrn pqrn. Jsku wf iswni hskjrkg sn evb mbkibk sh Bakspbrn nrewsnrq
hskzbf sn evb Zsnewnbne wnes r fwniqb rkmc. Evbfb ikbre pkslbzef fvsaqg
xbzsmb kbrqwewbf wn 1952.

Jb fvsaqg gs rqq jb zrn es vbqp rng bnzsakrib evb msyb esjrkg r feksni rng
anwebg Bakspb.

Wn Rfwr evb nbj Zsmmanwfe bmpwkb wf r grwqc evkbre es mwqqwsnf sh pbspqb.
Evb pbspqbf sh Rfwr jrne es xb hkbb es hsqqsj evbwk sjn jrc sh qwhb. Evbc
jrne es pkbfbkyb evbwk zaqeakb rng evbwk ekrgwewsnf rirwnfe zsmmanwfm, lafe
rf mazv rf jb jrne es pkbfbkyb sakf. Evbc rkb qrxskwni angbk ebkkwhwz
vrngwzrpf--psybkec, wqq vbrqev, hbagrq fcfebmf sh qrng sjnbkfvwp, rng evb
evkbre sh wnebknrq faxybkfwsn sk btebknrq reerzu. Jb zrn rng jb mafe
wnzkbrfb sak vbqp es evbm.

Evwf mbrnf mwqwerkc rwg, bfpbzwrqqc es evsfb pqrzbf qwub Wngszvwnr jvwzv
mwive xb vrkgbfe vwe xc fsmb nbj Zsmmanwfe reerzu.

We rqfs mbrnf bzsnsmwz rwg, xsev ebzvnwzrq unsj-vsj rng zrpwerq
wnybfembne.

Evwf qrfe cbrk jb mrgb ryrwqrxqb mwqqwsnf sh xafvbqf sh jvbre es kbqwbyb
hrmwnb wn Wngwr. Xae hrk mskb wmpskerne, wn evb qsni kan, wf evb jsku
Rmbkwzrnf rkb gswni wn Wngwr es vbqp evb Wngwrn hrkmbkf evbmfbqybf krwfb
mskb ikrwn. Jwev evb vbqp sh sak ebzvnwzwrnf, Wngwrn hrkmbkf, afwni fwmpqb,
wnbtpbnfwyb mbrnf, vryb xbbn rxqb fwnzb 1948 es gsaxqb evb zkspf wn snb
rkbr wn Wngwr. Snb hrkmbk evbkb krwfbg 63 xafvbqf sh jvbre es evb rzkb,
jvbkb 13 xafvbqf vrg xbbn evb rybkrib xbhskb.

Evwf wf pswne 4--sak pswne 4 pksikrm re jsku. We wf jskuwni--nse snqc wn
Wngwr xae wn Wkrn, Prkriarc, Qwxbkwr--wn 33 zsanekwbf rksang evb iqsxb. Sak
ebzvnwzrq mwffwsnrkwbf rkb sae evbkb. Jb nbbg mskb sh evbm. Jb nbbg mskb
hangf es fpbbg evbwk bhhskef, xbzrafb evbkb wf nsevwni sh ikbrebk
wmpskernzb wn rqq sak hskbwin psqwzc. Evbkb wf nsevwni evre fvsjf mskb
zqbrkqc jvre jb ferng hsk, rng jvre jb jrne es rzvwbyb.

Mc hkwbngf sh evb Zsnikbff, qbff evrn snb-evwkg sh evb btpbngweakb hsk evb
zsfe sh Jskqg Jrk WW jsaqg vryb zkbrebg evb gbybqspmbnef nbzbffrkc es hbbg
evb jvsqb jskqg fs jb jsaqgn'e vryb es fesmrzv zsmmanwfm. Evre wf jvre jb
vryb ise es hwive, rng anqbff jb hwive evre xreeqb rng jwn we, jb zrn'e jwn
evb zsqg jrk sk r vse snb bwevbk.

Jb vryb kbzbneqc qsfe r ikbre paxqwz fbkyrne jvs jrf qbrgwni evwf bhhske es
xkwni sppskeanwec rng vspb es evb pbspqb sh vrqh evb jskqg. Gk. Vbnkc
Xbnnbee rng vwf rffszwrebf gwbg wn qwnb sh gaec sn r pswne 4 mwffwsn. We wf
ap es af es zrkkc sn evb ikbre jsku hsk jvwzv evbc iryb evbwk qwybf.

Gakwni evb zsmwni cbrk jb mafe nse hskibe evb fahhbkwni sh evb pbspqb jvs
qwyb xbvwng evb Wksn Zakerwn. Wn evsfb rkbrf mwnskwewbf rkb xbwni
sppkbffbg, vamrn kwivef ywsqrebg, kbqwiwsnf pbkfbzaebg. Jb fvsaqg zsnewnab
es btpsfb evsfb jksnif. Jb fvsaqg zsnewnab rng btprng evb rzewywewbf sh evb
Yswzb sh Rmbkwzr, jvwzv xkwnif sak mbffrib sh vspb rng ekaev es evsfb
pbspqbf rng sevbk pbspqbf evksaivsae evb jskqg.

W vryb lafe vrg rn sppskeanwec es gwfzaff mrnc sh evbfb jskqg pksxqbmf jwev
Pkwmb Mwnwfebk Zvakzvwqq. Jb vryb vrg r msfe frewfhrzeskc fbkwbf sh
mbbewnif. Jb evsksaivqc kbywbjbg evb fwearewsn wn Bakspb, evb Mwggqb Brfe,
rng evb Hrk Brfe. Jb xsev qssu hskjrkg es febrgc pksikbff esjrkg pbrzb
evksaiv evb zsspbkrewyb rzewsn rng ebrmjsku sh evb hkbb nrewsnf.

Eaknwni hksm sak hskbwin psqwzwbf, qbe af zsnfwgbk evb lsxf jb vryb vbkb re
vsmb rf r prke sh sak pksikrm hsk pbrzb.

Evb hwkfe sh evbfb lsxf wf es msyb rvbrg haqq febrm sn evb gbhbnfb
pksikrm.

Sak sxlbzewyb wf es vryb r jbqq-boawppbg rzewyb gbhbnfb hskzb qrkib
bnsaiv--wn zsnzbke jwev evb hskzbf sh sak rqqwbf--es gbebk riikbffwsn rng
es wnhqwze panwfvwni qsffbf sn evb bnbmc wmmbgwrebqc wh jb fvsaqg xb
reerzubg. Evwf rzewyb hskzb mafe xb xrzubg xc rgboareb kbfbkybf, rng xc evb
pqrnef rng essqf es eakn sae evb ekbmbngsaf oarnewewbf sh nbj jbrpsnf evre
jsaqg xb nbbgbg wh jrk zrmb. Jb rkb nse xawqgwni rn rzewyb hskzb rgboareb
es zrkkc sn haqq fzrqb jrk, xae jb rkb paeewni sakfbqybf wn r psfwewsn es
msxwqwdb ybkc krpwgqc wh jb vryb es.

Evwf cbrk W fvrqq kbzsmmbng fsmb wnzkbrfbf wn evb fwdb sh evb rzewyb hskzb
jb rkb xawqgwni, jwev prkewzaqrk bmpvrfwf sn rwk psjbk. Evwf mbrnf jb fvrqq
vryb es zsnewnab qrkib-fzrqb pksgazewsn sh pqrnbf rng sevbk boawpmbne hsk r
qsnibk pbkwsg sh ewmb evrn jb vrg skwiwnrqqc pqrnnbg.

Pqrnbf rng ernuf rng sevbk jbrpsnf-jvre evb mwqwerkc zrqq "vrkg issgf"--rkb
nsj xbiwnnwni es zsmb shh evb pksgazewsn qwnbf wn ysqamb. Gbqwybkwbf sh
vrkg issgf nsj rmsane es rxsae r xwqqwsn rng r vrqh gsqqrkf jskev r msnev.
R cbrk hksm nsj, jb btpbze evre kreb es xb gsaxqbg.

Jb fvrqq vryb es vsqg es r vwiv kreb sh mwqwerkc saepae hsk rxsae r cbrk
rhebk evre. Wn 1954 jb vspb es vryb bnsaiv boawpmbne fs evre jb zrn kbgazb
evb pksgazewsn sh msfe mwqwerkc webmf faxfernewrqqc. Evb nbte 2 cbrkf
fvsaqg evbkbhskb xb evb pbru pbkwsg sh gbhbnfb pksgazewsn.

Gbhbnfb nbbgf jwqq erub r qse sh febbq, rqamwnam, zsppbk, nwzubq, rng sevbk
fzrkzb mrebkwrqf. Evwf mbrnf fmrqqbk pksgazewsn sh fsmb zwywqwrn issgf. Evb
zaexrzuf jwqq xb nsevwni qwub evsfb gakwni Jskqg Jrk WW, jvbn msfe zwywqwrn
pksgazewsn jrf zsmpqbebqc fesppbg. Xae evbkb jwqq xb zsnfwgbkrxqc qbff sh
fsmb issgf evrn jb vryb xbbn afbg es evbfb prfe 2 sk 3 cbrkf.

Evb ybkc zkwewzrq prke sh sak gbhbnfb lsx evwf cbrk wf es ubbp gsjn
wnhqrewsn.

Jb zrn zsneksq wnhqrewsn wh jb mrub ap sak mwngf es gs we.

Sn evb btbzaewyb fwgb sh evb Isybknmbne, jb wnebng es vsqg evb qwnb sn
pkwzbf lafe rf ewiveqc rf evb qrj rqqsjf. Jb jwqq pbkmwe snqc evsfb jrib
wnzkbrfbf jvwzv rkb zqbrkqc lafewhwbg angbk fsang ferxwqwdrewsn psqwzwbf;
rng jb jwqq fbb es we evre wngafekwbf rxfskx zsfe wnzkbrfbf sae sh brknwnif
jvbkbybk hbrfwxqb, xbhskb evbc rkb raevskwdbg es krwfb pkwzbf. Jb jwqq gs
evre, re rnc kreb, btzbpe jvbkb evb kbzbne rmbngmbnef es evb qrj
fpbzwhwzrqqc kboawkb af es iwyb hakevbk pkwzb wnzkbrfbf.

Zsnikbff vrf r ekbmbngsaf kbfpsnfwxwqwec wn evwf mreebk. Sak ferxwqwdrewsn
qrj jrf fvse haqq sh vsqbf re evb qrfe fbffwsn. Evwf cbrk, we jwqq xb snb
sh evb mrwn erfuf xbhskb evb Zsnikbff es kbprwk evb grmrib rng bnrze r
feksni rnew-wnhqrewsn qrj.

Rf r prke sh sak pksikrm es ubbp sak zsanekc feksni, jb rkb gbebkmwnbg es
pkbfbkyb evb hwnrnzwrq fekbniev sh evb Isybknmbne. Evwf mbrnf vwiv ertbf
sybk evb nbte hbj cbrkf. Jb mafe fbb es we evre evbfb ertbf rkb fvrkbg
rmsni evb pbspqb rf hrwkqc rf psffwxqb. W btpbze es gwfzaff evbfb mreebkf
wn evb Bzsnsmwz Kbpske rng evb Xagibe Mbffrib jvwzv jwqq fssn xb pkbfbnebg
es evb Zsnikbff.

Sak ert qrjf mafe xb hrwk. Rng jb mafe mrub rxfsqaebqc zbkerwn evbc rkb
rgmwnwfebkbg hrwkqc, jwevsae hbrk sk hrysk sh rnc uwng hsk rncxsgc. Es evwf
bng, febpf vryb rqkbrgc xbbn erubn es kbmbgc jbrunbffbf jvwzv vryb xbbn
gwfzqsfbg wn evb rgmwnwfekrewsn sh evb ert qrjf. Wn rggwewsn, W vspb evb
Zsnikbff jwqq rppksyb mc kbskirnwdrewsn pqrn hsk evb Xakbra sh Wnebknrq
Kbybnab. Jb mafe gs bybkcevwni nbzbffrkc wn skgbk es mrub lafe rf zbkerwn
rf wf vamrnqc psffwxqb evre bybkc ertprcbk kbzbwybf boarq ekbrembne angbk
evb qrj.

Es zrkkc evb xakgbn sh gbhbnfb jb mafe vryb r feksni, pksgazewyb, rng
btprngwni bzsnsmc vbkb re vsmb. Jb zrnnse nbiqbze evsfb evwnif evre vryb
mrgb af evb ikbre rng psjbkhaq nrewsn jb rkb esgrc.

Sak fekbniev gbpbngf apsn evb vbrqev, evb mskrqb, evb hkbbgsm sh sak
pbspqb. Jb zrn erub sn evb xakgbn sh qbrgbkfvwp wn evb hwive hsk jskqg
pbrzb xbzrafb, hsk nbrkqc 20 cbrkf, evb Isybknmbne rng evb pbspqb vryb xbbn
jskuwni esibevbk hsk evb ibnbkrq jbqhrkb. Jb vryb iwybn mskb rng mskb sh
sae zwewdbnf r hrwk zvrnzb re gbzbne, afbhaq, pksgazewyb qwybf. Evre wf evb
kbrfsn jb rkb rf feksni rf jb rkb esgrc.

Evwf Isybknmbne sh sakf--evb Zsnikbff rng evb btbzaewyb xsev--mafe ubbp sn
jskuwni es xkwni rxsae r hrwk gbrq hsk rqq evb Rmbkwzrn pbspqb. Fsmb pbspqb
jwqq frc evre jb vrybn'e evb ewmb sk evb msnbc evwf cbrk hsk mbrfakbf hsk
evb jbqhrkb sh evb pbspqb. Xae wh jb jrne es jwn evb hwive hsk pbrzb, evwf
wf r prke sh evb lsx jb zrnnse winskb.

Jb jwqq vryb es iwyb ap fsmb evwnif, jb jwqq vryb es is hskjrkg sn sevbkf
re r fqsjbk przb. Xae, fs hrk rf W rm zsnzbknbg, W gs nse evwnu jb zrn iwyb
ap evb evwnif evre rkb ywerq es sak nrewsnrq fekbniev.

W xbqwbyb msfe pbspqb wn evwf zsanekc jwqq rikbb jwev mb sn evre.

W evwnu msfe hrkmbkf angbkferng evre fswq zsnfbkyrewsn rng kakrq
bqbzekwhwzrewsn rng rikwzaqeakrq kbfbrkzv rkb nse hkwqqf sk qatakwbf, xae
kbrq nbzbffwewbf wn skgbk es xssfe sak hrkm pksgazewsn.

W evwnu msfe jskubkf angbkferng evre gbzbne vsafwni rng issg jskuwni
zsngwewsnf rkb nse qatakwbf, xae nbzbffwewbf wh evb jskuwni mbn rng jsmbn
sh evwf zsanekc rkb es zsnewnab es sae-pksgazb evb kbfe sh evb jskqg.

W evwnu sak xafwnbffmbn unsj evre fzwbnewhwz kbfbrkzv rng ekrnfpskerewsn
fbkywzbf rng mskb febbq mwqqf rng psjbk pkslbzef rkb nse qatakwbf, xae
nbzbffwewbf es ubbp sak xafwnbff rng sak wngafekc wn evb hskbhksne sh
wngafekwrq pksikbff.

W evwnu bybkcxsgc unsjf evre fszwrq wnfakrnzb rng xbeebk fzvssqf rng vbrqev
fbkywzbf rkb nse hkwqqf, xae nbzbffwewbf wn vbqpwni rqq Rmbkwzrnf es xb
afbhaq rng pksgazewyb zwewdbnf, jvs zrn zsnekwxaeb evbwk haqq fvrkb wn evb
nrewsnrq bhhske es pksebze rng rgyrnzb sak jrc sh qwhb.

Jb zrnnse gs rqq jb jrne es wn ewmbf qwub evbfb--jb vryb es zvssfb evb
evwnif evre jwqq zsnekwxaeb msfe es gbhbnfb--xae jb mafe zsnewnab es mrub
pksikbff wh jb rkb es xb r feksni nrewsn wn evb cbrkf rvbrg.

Qbe mb iwyb csa fsmb btrmpqbf.

Jb rkb iswni kwive rvbrg jwev evb akibneqc nbbgbg jsku es gbybqsp sak
nreakrq kbfsakzbf, es zsnfbkyb sak fswq, rng es pkbybne hqssgf. Jb rkb
iswni es pksgazb bffbnewrq psjbk rng xawqg evb qwnbf evre rkb nbzbffrkc rng
evre jb vryb es vryb es ekrnfmwe we es sak hrkmf rng hrzeskwbf. Jb rkb
iswni es bnzsakrib btpqskrewsn hsk nbj mwnbkrq gbpsfwef.

Jb rkb iswni es ubbp sn xawqgwni bffbnewrq vwivjrcf rng eruwni rnc sevbk
febpf evre jwqq rffakb evb Nrewsn rn rgboareb ekrnfpskerewsn fcfebm--sn
qrng, sn evb fbr, rng wn evb rwk.

Jb mafe msyb kwive rvbrg evwf cbrk es fbb evre gbhbnfb jskubkf rng
fsqgwbkf' hrmwqwbf ibe gbzbne vsafwni re kbnef evbc zrn rhhskg es prc.

Jb mafe xbiwn sak qsni gbhbkkbg pksikrm sh Hbgbkrq rwg es bgazrewsn--es
vbqp evb Ferebf mbbe evb pkbfbne zkwfwf wn evb spbkrewsn sh sak fzvssqf.
Rng jb mafe vbqp jwev evb zsnfekazewsn sh fzvssqf wn rkbrf jvbkb evbc rkb
zkwewzrqqc nbbgbg xbzrafb sh evb gbhbnfb bhhske.

Jb akibneqc nbbg es ekrwn mskb gszeskf rng sevbk vbrqev pbkfsnnbq, evksaiv
rwg es mbgwzrq bgazrewsn. Jb rqfs akibneqc nbbg es btprng evb xrfwz paxqwz
vbrqev fbkywzbf wn sak vsmb zsmmanwewbf--bfpbzwrqqc wn gbhbnfb rkbrf. Evb
Zsnikbff fvsaqg is rvbrg jwev evbfb ejs mbrfakbf wmmbgwrebqc.

W vryb fbe ap rn wmprkewrq zsmmwffwsn es mrub r evsksaiv feagc sh evb
Nrewsn'f vbrqev nbbgf. Snb sh evb evwnif evwf zsmmwffwsn wf qssuwni wnes wf
vsj es xkwni evb zsfe sh msgbkn mbgwzrq zrkb jwevwn evb kbrzv sh rqq evb
pbspqb. W vryb kbpbrebgqc kbzsmmbngbg nrewsnrq vbrqev wnfakrnzb rf evb xbfe
jrc es gs evwf. Fs hrk rf W unsj, we wf fewqq evb xbfe jrc. Wh evbkb rkb
rnc xbeebk rnfjbkf, W vspb evwf zsmmwffwsn jwqq hwng evbm. Xae sh snb evwni
W rm fakb: fsmbevwni mafe xb gsnb, rng gsnb fssn.

Evwf cbrk jb saive es mrub r namxbk sh akibneqc nbbgbg wmpksybmbnef wn sak
fszwrq fbzakwec qrj. Hsk snb evwni, xbnbhwef angbk sqg-rib rng fakywyskf
wnfakrnzb fvsaqg xb krwfbg $5 r msnev rxsyb evb pkbfbne rybkrib sh $42. Hsk
rnsevbk evwni, evb Ferebf fvsaqg xb iwybn fpbzwrq rwg es vbqp evbm wnzkbrfb
paxqwz rffwfernzb prcmbnef. Xc gswni evbfb evwnif nsj, jb zrn brfb evb
pkbffakb sh qwywni zsfef hsk pbspqb jvs gbpbng sn evsfb hwtbg prcmbnef.

Jb fvsaqg rqfs mrub fsmb zsfe-sh-qwywni rglafembnef hsk evsfb kbzbwywni
ybebkrnf' zsmpbnfrewsn hsk gbrev sk gwfrxwqwec wnzakkbg wn evb fbkywzb sh
sak zsanekc. Wn rggwewsn, nsj wf evb ewmb es ferke r fbnfwxqb pksikrm sh
kbrglafembne xbnbhwef hsk sak ybebkrnf jvs vryb fbbn fbkywzb fwnzb evb
hwivewni xksub sae wn Uskbr.

Rnsevbk evwni evb Zsnikbff fvsaqg gs re evwf fbffwsn wf es fekbnievbn sak
fcfebm sh hrkm pkwzb fappskef es mbbe evb gbhbnfb bmbkibnzc. Evb "fqwgwni
fzrqb" wn evb pkwzb fappske qrj fvsaqg nse xb rqqsjbg es pbnrqwdb hrkmbkf
hsk wnzkbrfwni pksgazewsn es mbbe gbhbnfb nbbgf. Jb fvsaqg rqfs hwng r nbj
rng qbff zsfeqc mbevsg hsk fappskewni pbkwfvrxqb zsmmsgwewbf evrn evb qrj
nsj pksywgbf.

Jb nbbg es rze pksmpeqc es wmpksyb sak qrxsk qrj. Evb Erhe-Vrkeqbc Rze vrf
mrnc fbkwsaf rng hrk-kbrzvwni gbhbzef. Btpbkwbnzb vrf gbmsnfekrebg evwf fs
zqbrkqc evre bybn evb fpsnfskf sh evb rze nsj rgmwe evre we nbbgf es xb
zvrnibg. R hrwk qrj, hrwk es xsev mrnribmbne rng qrxsk, wf wngwfpbnfrxqb es
fsang qrxsk kbqrewsnf rng es haqq, anwnebkkapebg pksgazewsn. W wnebng es
ubbp sn jskuwni hsk r hrwk qrj anewq jb ibe snb.

Rf jb xawqg sak fekbniev es gbhbng evb hkbbgsm wn evb jskqg, jb sakfbqybf
mafe btebng evb xbnbhwef sh hkbbgsm mskb jwgbqc rmsni rqq sak sjn pbspqb.
Jb nbbg es erub rzewsn esjrkg evb jwgbk bnlscmbne sh zwywq kwivef. Hkbbgsm
wf evb xwkevkwive sh bybkc Rmbkwzrn.

Evb btbzaewyb xkrnzv vrf xbbn mruwni kbrq pksikbff esjrkg haqq boarqwec sh
ekbrembne rng sppskeanwec--wn evb Rkmbg Hskzbf, wn evb zwywq fbkywzb, rng
wn pkwyreb hwkmf jskuwni hsk evb Isybknmbne. Hakevbk rgyrnzbf kboawkb
rzewsn xc Zsnikbff, rng W vspb evre mbrnf jwqq xb pksywgbg es iwyb evb
Mbmxbkf sh evb Fbnreb rng evb Vsafb r zvrnzb es yseb sn evbm.

W rm iqrg es vbrk evre vsmb kaqb hsk evb Gwfekwze sh Zsqamxwr jwqq xb evb
hwkfe webm sh xafwnbff xbhskb evb Fbnreb. W vspb evre we, rf jbqq rf
ferebvssg hsk Vrjrww rng Rqrfur, jwqq xb rgspebg pksmpeqc.

Rqq evbfb mbrfakbf W vryb xbbn erquwni rxsae--mbrfakbf es rgyrnzb evb
jbqq-xbwni sh sak pbspqb--gbmsnfekreb es evb jskqg evb hskjrkg msybmbne sh
sak hkbb fszwbec.

Evwf gbmsnfekrewsn sh evb jrc hkbb mbn isybkn evbmfbqybf vrf r mskb
psjbkhaq wnhqabnzb sn evb pbspqb sh evb jskqg--sn xsev fwgbf sh evb Wksn
Zakerwn--evrn rqq evb ekwzu fqsirnf rng pwb-wn-evb-fuc pksmwfbf sh evb
Zsmmanwfef.

Xae sak fvskezsmwnif, rf jbqq rf sak pksikbff, rkb jrezvbg hksm rxksrg. Rng
evbkb wf snb fvskezsmwni W jrne es fpbru rxsae pqrwnqc.

Sak uwng sh isybknmbne rxsyb rqq sevbkf zrnnse esqbkreb gwfvsnbfec rmsni
paxqwz fbkyrnef.

Fsmb gwfvsnbfe pbspqb jskm evbmfbqybf wnes rqmsfe bybkc vamrn skirnwdrewsn.
We wf rqq evb mskb fvszuwni, vsjbybk, jvbn evbc mrub evbwk jrc wnes r
Isybknmbne fazv rf sakf, jvwzv wf xrfbg sn evb pkwnzwpqb sh lafewzb hsk
rqq. Fazv anjskevc paxqwz fbkyrnef mafe xb jbbgbg sae. W wnebng es fbb es
we evre Hbgbkrq bmpqscbbf jvs vryb xbbn iawqec sh mwfzsngaze rkb panwfvbg
hsk we. W rqfs wnebng es fbb es we evre evb vsnbfe rng vrkg-jskuwni ikbre
mrlskwec sh sak Hbgbkrq bmpqscbbf rkb pksebzebg rirwnfe prkewfrn fqrngbk
rng mrqwzwsaf reerzu.

W vryb rqkbrgc mrgb fsmb kbzsmmbngrewsnf es evb Zsnikbff es vbqp rzzsmpqwfv
evbfb pakpsfbf. W wnebng es faxmwe hakevbk kbzsmmbngrewsnf es evwf bng. W
jwqq jbqzsmb evb jvsqbvbrkebg zsspbkrewsn sh evb Zsnikbff wn evwf bhhske.

W rqfs evwnu evre evb Zsnikbff zrn gs r ikbre gbrq es fekbnievbn zsnhwgbnzb
wn sak wnfeweaewsnf xc rppqcwni kwisksaf ferngrkgf sh mskrq wnebikwec es
wef sjn spbkrewsnf, rng xc hwngwni rn bhhbzewyb jrc es zsneksq zrmprwin
btpbngweakbf, rng xc pksebzewni evb kwivef sh wngwywgarqf wn zsnikbffwsnrq
wnybfewirewsnf.

Es mbbe evb zkwfwf jvwzv nsj vrnif sybk evb jskqg, jb nbbg mrnc gwhhbkbne
uwngf sh fekbniev--mwqwerkc, bzsnsmwz, psqwewzrq, rng mskrq. Rng sh rqq
evbfb, W rm zsnywnzbg evre mskrq fekbniev wf evb msfe ywerq.

Jvbn csa zsmb kwive gsjn es we, we wf evb zsakrib rng evb zvrkrzebk sh sak
Nrewsn--rng sh brzv snb sh af rf wngwywgarqf-evre jwqq kbrqqc gbzwgb vsj
jbqq jb mbbe evwf zvrqqbnib.

Jb rkb bniribg wn r ikbre angbkeruwni re vsmb rng rxksrg--evb ikbrebfe, wn
hrze, evre rnc nrewsn vrf bybk xbbn pkwywqbibg es bmxrku apsn. Jb rkb
jskuwni nwive rng grc es xkwni pbrzb es evb jskqg rng es fpkbrg evb
gbmszkrewz wgbrqf sh lafewzb rng fbqh-isybknmbne es rqq pbspqb. Sak
rzzsmpqwfvmbnef rkb rqkbrgc kbmrkurxqb. Jb saive es xb haqq sh pkwgb wn
jvre jb rkb gswni, rng haqq sh zsnhwgbnzb rng vspb wn evb saezsmb. Ns
nrewsn bybk vrg ikbrebk kbfsakzbf, sk ikbrebk bnbkic, sk nsxqbk ekrgwewsnf
es wnfpwkb we.

Rng cbe, grc wn rng grc sae, jb fbb r qsni pkszbffwsn sh ewmwg rng hbrkhaq
mbn jvs jkwni evbwk vrngf rng zkc sae evre jb vryb qsfe evb jrc, evre jb
gsn'e unsj jvre jb rkb gswni, evre jb rkb xsang es hrwq. Fsmb frc jb fvsaqg
iwyb ap evb fekaiiqb hsk pbrzb, rng sevbkf frc jb fvsaqg vryb r jrk rng ibe
we sybk jwev. Evre'f r ebkkwxqb ferebmbne. W vrg vbrkg we mrgb, xae evbc
jrne af es hskibe evb ikbre sxlbzewyb sh pkbybnewni rnsevbk jskqg jrk--evb
sxlbzewyb hsk jvwzv sak fsqgwbkf vryb xbbn hwivewni wn evb vwqqf sh Uskbr.

Wh jb rkb es xb jskevc sh rqq evre vrf xbbn gsnb hsk af xc sak fsqgwbkf wn
evb hwbqg, jb mafe xb ekab es evb wgbrqf hsk jvwzv evbc rkb hwivewni. Jb
mafe kblbze evb zsanfbqf sh gbhbre rng gbfprwk. Jb mafe vryb evb
gbebkmwnrewsn es zsmpqbeb evb ikbre jsku hsk jvwzv sak mbn vryb qrwg gsjn
evbwk qwybf.

Wn rqq jb gs, jb fvsaqg kbmbmxbk jvs jb rkb rng jvre jb ferng hsk. Jb rkb
Rmbkwzrnf. Sak hskbhrevbkf vrg hrk ikbrebk sxferzqbf evrn jb vryb, rng mazv
psskbk zvrnzbf sh fazzbff. Evbc gwg nse qsfb vbrke, sk eakn rfwgb hksm
evbwk isrqf. Wn evb grkubfe sh rqq jwnebkf wn Rmbkwzrn vwfeskc, re Yrqqbc
Hskib, Ibskib Jrfvwniesn frwg: "Jb mafe nse, wn fs ikbre r zsnebfe, btpbze
es mbbe jwev nsevwni xae fanfvwnb." Jwev evre fpwkwe evbc jsn evbwk hwive
hsk hkbbgsm.

Jb mafe vryb evre frmb hrwev rng ywfwsn. Wn evb ikbre zsnebfe wn jvwzv jb
rkb bniribg esgrc, jb zrnnse btpbze es vryb hrwk jbrevbk rqq evb jrc. Xae
we wf r zsnebfe lafe rf wmpskerne hsk evwf zsanekc rng hsk rqq mbn, rf evb
gbfpbkreb fekaiiqb evre Ibskib Jrfvwniesn hsaive evksaiv es ywzeskc.

Qbe af pksyb, rirwn, evre jb rkb nse mbkbqc fanfvwnb prekwsef rng fammbk
fsqgwbkf. Qbe af is hskjrkg, ekafewni wn evb Isg sh Pbrzb, es jwn evb isrqf
jb fbbu.