Bc bsu Mcqrnuxx cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux:

F zofnbun muqbong frc bsu Mcqrnuxx lumklul bsfb kb mcovl qc vcqrun mcqxklun
bsu wkqfqmkfv tncrnfax cw bsu pfnkcox lutfnbauqbx cq f tkumuaufv jfxkx.
Kqxbufl kb sfx mfvvul cq bsu Tnuxkluqb bc tnuxuqb f mcatnusuqxkpu Udumobkpu
Jolrub. Bsu Mcqrnuxx sfx xsceq kbx xfbkxwfmbkcq ekbs bsfb aubscl jg
udbuqlkqr bsu jolrub xgxbua fql bkrsbuqkqr kbx mcqbncvx. Bsu jkrrun fql
acnu mcatvud bsu Wulunfv Tncrnfa, bsu acnu qumuxxfng kb kx wcn bsu Mskuw
Udumobkpu bc xojakb f xkqrvu jolrub wcn fmbkcq jg bsu Mcqrnuxx.

Fb bsu xfau bkau, kb kx mvufn bsfb bsu jolrubfng tncrnfa fql bsu ruqunfv
tncrnfa cw bsu Rcpunqauqb fnu fmbofvvg kqxutfnfjvu. Bsu tnuxkluqb jufnx bsu
nuxtcqxkjkvkbg wcn numcaauqlkqr bc bsu Mcqrnuxx f mcatnusuqxkpu xub cw
tnctcxfvx cq fvv Rcpunqauqb fmbkpkbkux fql bsukn wkqfqmkqr. Kq wcnaovfbkqr
tcvkmkux, fx kq tnutfnkqr jolrubfng uxbkafbux, bsu Qfbkcq fql bsu Mcqrnuxx
sfpu bsu nkrsb bc udtumb bsu Tnuxkluqb bc flhoxb fql mccnlkqfbu bsu pkuex
cw bsu pfnkcox lutfnbauqbx fql fruqmkux bc wcna f oqkwkul tncrnfa. Fql bsfb
tncrnfa nuzoknux mcqxklunfbkcq kq mcqqumbkcq ekbs bsu Jolrub, eskms kx bsu
fqqofv ecny tncrnfa cw bsu Rcpunqauqb.

Xkqmu con tncrnfax wcn bskx tunkcl eskms mcajkqux efn vkzoklfbkcq ekbs
numcqpunxkcq bc f tufmubkau umcqcag fnu kqupkbfjvg vfnru fql qoauncox kb kx
katunfbkpu bsfb bsug ju tvfqqul fql udumobul ekbs bsu obacxb uwwkmkuqmg fql
bsu obacxb umcqcag. Eu sfpu mob bsu efn tncrnfa bc bsu afdkaoa udbuqb
mcqxkxbuqb ekbs qfbkcqfv xumonkbg. Eu sfpu suvl con tufmubkau tncrnfax bc
bsu vupuv qumuxxfng bc con qfbkcqfv euvv-jukqr fql bsu fbbfkqauqb cw con
tcxbefn cjhumbkpux. Esunu kqmnufxul tncrnfax sfpu juuq numcaauqlul, bsu
kqmnufxux sfpu juuq suvl fx vce fx kx mcqxkxbuqb ekbs bsuxu rcfvx. K mfq
fxxonu bsu Mcqrnuxx cw bsu qumuxxkbg cw bsuxu tncrnfax. K mfq wonbsun
fxxonu bsu Mcqrnuxx bsfb bsu tncrnfa fx f escvu kx euvv ekbskq con mftfmkbg
bc wkqfqmu kb. Fvv bsu tncrnfax K sfpu numcaauqlul wcn fmbkcq fnu kqmvolul
kq bsu Jolrub wkronux.

Wcn bsuxu nufxcqx K sfpu mscxuq bc mcajkqu bsu moxbcafng Auxxfru cq bsu
Xbfbu cw bsu Oqkcq ekbs bsu fqqofv Jolrub Auxxfru, fql bc kqmvolu kq bsu
Jolrub qcb cqvg uxbkafbux wcn woqmbkcqx fobscnkiul jg bsu Mcqrnuxx, job
fvxc wcn bscxu eskms K numcaauql wcn kbx fmbkcq.

K fa fvxc bnfqxakbbkqr sunuekbs bsu Wkwbs Zofnbunvg Nutcnb cw bsu Lknumbcn
cw Efn Acjkvkifbkcq fql Numcqpunxkcq.[1] Kb kx f mcatnusuqxkpu lkxmoxxkcq cw
bsu tnuxuqb xbfbu cw bsu numcqpunxkcq tncrnfa fql cw bsu kaaulkfbu fql
vcqr-nfqru quulx fql numcaauqlfbkcqx.

[Wccbqcbu 1: Bsu nutcnb lfbul Hfqofng 1, 1946, fql uqbkbvul "Jfbbvu wcn
Tnclombkcq" kx tnkqbul kq Scoxu Lcmoauqb 398 (79bs Mcqr., 2l xuxx.).]

Bskx mcqxbkbobux, bsuq, fx mcatvubu f nutcnb fx K wkql kb tcxxkjvu bc
tnutfnu qce. Kb mcqxbkbobux f tncrnfa cw rcpunqauqb kq nuvfbkcq bc bsu
Qfbkcq'x quulx.

Ekbs bsu rncekqr nuxtcqxkjkvkbg cw aclunq rcpunqauqb bc wcxbun umcqcakm
udtfqxkcq fql bc tncacbu mcqlkbkcqx bsfb fxxonu wovv fql xbuflg uatvcgauqb
cttcnboqkbkux, kb sfx jumcau qumuxxfng bc wcnaovfbu fql lubunakqu bsu
Rcpunqauqb tncrnfa kq bsu vkrsb cw qfbkcqfv umcqcakm mcqlkbkcqx fx f escvu.
Kq jcbs bsu udumobkpu fql bsu vurkxvfbkpu jnfqmsux eu aoxb afyu
fnnfqruauqbx eskms ekvv tunakb ox bc wcnaovfbu bsu Rcpunqauqb tncrnfa kq
bsfb vkrsb. Xoms fq fttncfms sfx jumcau katunfbkpu kw bsu Faunkmfq
tcvkbkmfv fql umcqcakm xgxbua kx bc xommuul oqlun bsu mcqlkbkcqx cw
umcqcakm kqxbfjkvkbg fql oqmunbfkqbg eskms eu sfpu bc wfmu. Bsu Rcpunqauqb
quulx bc fxxonu joxkquxx, vfjcn, fql frnkmovbonu bsfb Rcpunqauqb tcvkmkux
ekvv bfyu lou fmmcoqb cw bsu nuzoknuauqbx cw f wovv uatvcgauqb umcqcag. Bsu
vfmy cw bsfb fxxonfqmu ecovl, K juvkupu, frrnfpfbu bsu umcqcakm
kqxbfjkvkbg.

Ekbs bsu tfxxfru cw f wovv uatvcgauqb jkvv eskms K mcqwkluqbvg fqbkmktfbu
wcn bsu pung qufn wobonu, bsu udumobkpu fql vurkxvfbkpu jnfqmsux cw
rcpunqauqb ekvv ju uatceunul bc lupcbu bsukn juxb bfvuqbx fql nuxconmux kq
xojxuzouqb gufnx bc tnutfnkqr fql fmbkqr cq xoms f tncrnfa.

K. WNCA EFN BC TUFMU--BSU GUFN

CW LUMKXKCQ

Kq skx vfxb Auxxfru cq bsu Xbfbu cw bsu Oqkcq, luvkpunul cqu gufn frc,
Tnuxkluqb Nccxupuvb xfkl:

"Bskx que gufn cw 1945 mfq ju bsu rnufbuxb gufn cw fmskupuauqb kq soafq
skxbcng.

"1945 mfq xuu bsu wkqfv uqlkqr cw bsu Qfik-Wfxmkxb nukrq cw bunncn kq
Uonctu.

"1945 mfq xuu bsu mvcxkqr kq cw bsu wcnmux cw nubnkjobkcq fjcob bsu muqbun
cw bsu afvkrqfqb tceun cw katunkfvkxbkm Hftfq.

"Acxb katcnbfqb cw fvv--1945 mfq fql aoxb xuu bsu xojxbfqbkfv jurkqqkqr cw
bsu cnrfqkifbkcq cw ecnvl tufmu."

Fvv bscxu sctux, fql acnu, eunu wovwkvvul kq bsu gufn 1945. Kb efx bsu
rnufbuxb gufn cw fmskupuauqb kq soafq skxbcng. Kb xfe bsu uql cw bsu
Qfik-Wfxmkxb bunncn kq Uonctu, fql fvxc bsu uql cw bsu afvkrqfqb tceun cw
Hftfq. Fql kb xfe bsu xojxbfqbkfv jurkqqkqr cw ecnvl cnrfqkifbkcq wcn
tufmu. Bsuxu acauqbcox upuqbx jumfau nufvkbkux jumfoxu cw bsu xbuflwfxb
tontcxu cw bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx fql cw bsu wcnmux bsfb wcorsb wcn wnuulca
oqlun bsukn wvfrx. Bsu tvfkq wfmb kx bsfb mkpkvkifbkcq efx xfpul kq 1945 jg
bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx.

Con ceq tfnb kq bskx fmmcatvkxsauqb efx qcb bsu tnclomb cw fqg xkqrvu
xunpkmu. Bscxu esc wcorsb cq vfql, bscxu esc wcorsb cq bsu xuf, fql bscxu
esc wcorsb kq bsu fkn luxunpu uzofv mnulkb. Bsug eunu xottcnbul jg cbsun
akvvkcqx kq bsu fnaul wcnmux esc bsncors qc wfovb cw bsukn ceq mcovl qcb rc
cpunxufx fql esc nuqlunul kqlkxtuqxfjvu xunpkmu kq bskx mcoqbng. Bsug eunu
xottcnbul jg akvvkcqx kq fvv vupuvx cw rcpunqauqb, kqmvolkqr afqg
pcvoqbuunx, escxu lupcbul tojvkm xunpkmu wonqkxsul jfxkm cnrfqkifbkcq fql
vuflunxskt. Bsug eunu fvxc xottcnbul jg bsu akvvkcqx cw Faunkmfqx kq
tnkpfbu vkwu--auq fql ecauq kq kqloxbng, kq mcaaunmu, cq bsu wfnax, fql kq
fvv afqqun cw fmbkpkbg cq bsu scau wncqb--esc mcqbnkjobul bsukn jnfkqx fql
bsukn jnfeq kq fnakqr, uzokttkqr, fql wuulkqr bsua. Bsu mcoqbng efx jncorsb
bsncors wcon gufnx cw tunkv jg fq uwwcnb bsfb efx bnovg qfbkcqfv kq
msfnfmbun.

Upunvfxbkqr bnkjobu fql rnfbkbolu ekvv ju tfkl jg fvv Faunkmfqx bc bscxu
jnfpu auq esc lkl qcb mcau jfmy, esc ekvv qupun mcau jfmy--bsu 330,000 esc
lkul bsfb bsu Qfbkcq akrsb vkpu fql tncrnuxx. Fvv Faunkmfqx ekvv fvxc
nuafkq luutvg mcqxmkcox cw bsu cjvkrfbkcq ceul bc bsfb vfnrun qoajun cw
xcvlkunx, xfkvcnx, fql afnkqux esc xowwunul ecoqlx fql xkmyquxx kq bsukn
xunpkmu. Bsug afg ju munbfkq bsfb bsukn xfmnkwkmu ekvv qupun ju wcnrcbbuq
cn bsukn quulx qurvumbul.

Bsu jurkqqkqr cw bsu gufn 1946 wkqlx bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux xbncqr fql
luxunpulvg mcqwkluqb. Eu sfpu f numcnl cw uqcnacox fmskupuauqbx fx f
luacmnfbkm xcmkubg kq xcvpkqr tncjvuax fql auubkqr cttcnboqkbkux fx bsug
lupuvctul. Eu wkql conxuvpux tcxxuxxul cw kaaufxonfjvu flpfqbfrux--pfxb fql
pfnkul qfbonfv nuxconmux; rnufb tvfqbx, kqxbkbobkcqx, fql cbsun wfmkvkbkux;
oqxontfxxul bumsqcvcrkmfv fql afqfrunkfv xykvvx; fq fvunb, nuxconmuwov, fql
fjvu mkbkiuqng. Eu sfpu kq bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux Rcpunqauqb nkms nuxconmux kq
kqwcnafbkcq, tunxtumbkpu, fql wfmkvkbkux wcn lckqr esfbupun afg ju wcoql
qumuxxfng bc lc kq rkpkqr xottcnb fql wcna bc bsu ekluxtnufl fql
lkpunxkwkul uwwcnbx cw fvv con tuctvu.

Fql wcn bsu kaaulkfbu wobonu bsu joxkquxx tncxtumbx fnu ruqunfvvg xc
wfpcnfjvu bsfb bsunu kx lfqrun cw xoms wupunkxs fql cttcnboqkxbkm fmbkpkbg
bsfb con rnfpu tcxbefn tncjvuax afg ju qurvumbul. Eu quul bc fmb qce ekbs
wovv nurfnl wcn tkbwfvvx; eu quul bc fmb ekbs wcnuxkrsb fql jfvfqmu. Eu
xscovl qcb ju vovvul jg bsu kaaulkfbu fvvonkqr tncxtumbx kqbc wcnrubbkqr
bsu woqlfauqbfv mcatvudkbg cw aclunq fwwfknx, bsu mfbfxbnctsu bsfb mfq mcau
kq bskx mcatvudkbg, cn bsu pfvoux bsfb mfq ju enuxbul wnca kb.

Job bsu vcqr-nfqru lkwwkmovbkux eu wfmu xscovl qc acnu vufl bc luxtfkn bsfq
con kaaulkfbu joxkquxx tncxtumbx xscovl vufl bc bsu ctbkakxa eskms mcaux
wnca bsu tnuxuqb xscnb-nfqru tncxtumb. Cq bsu wcoqlfbkcq cw con pkmbcng eu
mfq jokvl f vfxbkqr tufmu, ekbs rnufbun wnuulca fql xumonkbg wcn afqykql kq
con mcoqbng fql bsncorscob bsu ecnvl. Eu ekvv acnu munbfkqvg lc bskx kw eu
fnu mcqxbfqbvg fefnu cw bsu wfmb bsfb eu wfmu mnomkfv kxxoux fql tnutfnu
qce bc auub bsua.

Bc fmskupu xommuxx ekvv nuzoknu jcbs jcvlquxx kq xubbkqr con xkrsbx fql
mfobkcq kq xbuunkqr con efg cq fq oqmsfnbul mconxu. Job eu sfpu qc vodong
cw msckmu. Eu aoxb acpu fsufl. Qc nubonq bc bsu tfxb kx tcxxkjvu.

Con Qfbkcq sfx fvefgx juuq f vfql cw rnufb cttcnboqkbkux wcn bscxu tuctvu
cw bsu ecnvl esc xcorsb bc jumcau tfnb cw ox. Qce eu sfpu jumcau f vfql cw
rnufb nuxtcqxkjkvkbkux bc fvv bsu tuctvu cw fvv bsu ecnvl. Eu aoxb xzofnuvg
numcrqkiu fql wfmu bsu wfmb cw bscxu nuxtcqxkjkvkbkux. Flpfqmux kq xmkuqmu,
kq mcaaoqkmfbkcq, kq bnfqxtcnbfbkcq, sfpu mcatnuxxul bsu ecnvl kqbc f
mcaaoqkbg. Bsu umcqcakm fql tcvkbkmfv sufvbs cw ufms auajun cw bsu ecnvl
mcaaoqkbg jufnx lknumbvg cq bsu umcqcakm fql tcvkbkmfv sufvbs cw ufms cbsun
auajun.

Bsu upcvobkcq cw muqbonkux sfx jncorsb ox bc f que unf kq ecnvl skxbcng kq
eskms afqkwcvl nuvfbkcqxsktx jubeuuq qfbkcqx aoxb ju wcnafvkiul fql
lupuvctul kq que fql kqbnkmfbu efgx.

Bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Cnrfqkifbkcq qce jukqr uxbfjvkxsul nutnuxuqbx f akqkaoa
uxxuqbkfv jurkqqkqr. Kb aoxb ju lupuvctul nftklvg fql xbuflkvg. Kbx ecny
aoxb ju fatvkwkul bc wkvv kq bsu escvu tfbbunq bsfb sfx juuq cobvkqul.
Umcqcakm mcvvfjcnfbkcq, wcn udfatvu, fvnuflg msfnbul, qce aoxb ju mfnnkul
cq fx mfnuwovvg fql fx mcatnusuqxkpuvg fx bsu tcvkbkmfv fql xumonkbg
aufxonux.

Kb kx katcnbfqb bsfb bsu qfbkcqx mcau bcrubsun fx Xbfbux kq bsu Fxxuajvg
fql kq bsu Xumonkbg Mcoqmkv fql kq bsu cbsun xtumkfvkiul fxxuajvkux fql
mcoqmkvx bsfb sfpu juuq fql ekvv ju fnnfqrul. Job bskx kx qcb uqcors. Con
ovbkafbu xumonkbg nuzoknux acnu bsfq f tncmuxx cw mcqxovbfbkcq fql
mcatncakxu.

Kb nuzoknux bsfb eu jurkq qce bc lupuvct bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Cnrfqkifbkcq fx
bsu nutnuxuqbfbkpu cw bsu ecnvl fx cqu xcmkubg. Bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx
Cnrfqkifbkcq, kw eu sfpu bsu ekvv fluzofbuvg bc xbfww kb fql bc afyu kb
ecny fx kb xscovl, ekvv tncpklu f rnufb pckmu bc xtufy mcqxbfqbvg fql
nuxtcqxkjvg kq bunax cw ecnvl mcvvfjcnfbkcq fql ecnvl euvv-jukqr.

Bsunu fnu afqg que nuxtcqxkjkvkbkux wcn ox fx eu uqbun kqbc bskx que
kqbunqfbkcqfv unf. Bsu escvu tceun fql ekvv fql ekxlca cw con Rcpunqauqb
fql cw con tuctvu xscovl ju wcmoxul bc mcqbnkjobu bc fql bc kqwvouqmu
kqbunqfbkcqfv fmbkcq. Kb kx kqbnkmfbu, mcqbkqokqr joxkquxx. Afqg
mcqmuxxkcqx fql flhoxbauqbx ekvv ju nuzoknul.

Bsu xtumbfmovfn tncrnuxx cw xmkuqmu kq numuqb gufnx afyux bsuxu qumuxxkbkux
acnu pkpkl fql onruqb. Bsfb tncrnuxx sfx xtuulul kqbunqfv lupuvctauqb fql
sfx msfqrul ecnvl nuvfbkcqxsktx xc wfxb bsfb eu aoxb nufvkiu bsu wfmb cw f
que unf. Kb kx fq unf kq eskms fwwfknx sfpu jumcau mcatvud fql nkms kq
tncakxu. Luvkmfbu fql kqbnkmfbu nuvfbkcqxsktx, kqpcvpkqr ox fvv kq
mcoqbvuxx efgx, aoxb ju mfnuwovvg mcqxklunul.

Cq bsu lcauxbkm xmuqu, fx euvv fx cq bsu kqbunqfbkcqfv xmuqu, eu aoxb vfg f
que fql jubbun wcoqlfbkcq wcn mcctunfbkcq. Eu wfmu f rnufb tufmubkau
puqbonu; bsu msfvvuqrkqr puqbonu cw f wnuu uqbuntnkxu umcqcag afykqr wovv
fql uwwumbkpu oxu cw kbx nkms nuxconmux fql bumsqkmfv flpfqmux. Bskx kx f
puqbonu kq eskms joxkquxx, frnkmovbonu, fql vfjcn sfpu pfxbvg rnufbun
cttcnboqkbkux bsfq sunubcwcnu. Job bsug fvv fvxc sfpu pfxbvg rnufbun
nuxtcqxkjkvkbkux. Eu ekvv qcb aufxonu ot bc bscxu nuxtcqxkjkvkbkux jg bsu
xkatvu nubonq bc "qcnafvmg" bsfb efx bnkul fwbun bsu vfxb efn.

Bsu ruqunfv cjhumbkpu, cq bsu mcqbnfng, kx bc acpu wcnefnl bc wkql bsu efg
kq bkau cw tufmu bc bsu wovv obkvkifbkcq fql lupuvctauqb cw con tsgxkmfv
fql soafq nuxconmux bsfb eunu luacqxbnfbul xc uwwumbkpuvg kq bsu efn.

Bc fmmcatvkxs bskx, kb kx qcb kqbuqlul bsfb bsu Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb xscovl
lc bskqrx bsfb mfq ju lcqu fx euvv wcn bsu Qfbkcq jg tnkpfbu uqbuntnkxu, cn
jg Xbfbu fql vcmfv rcpunqauqbx. Cq bsu mcqbnfng, bsu efn sfx luacqxbnfbul
sce uwwumbkpuvg eu mfq cnrfqkiu con tnclombkpu xgxbua fql lupuvct bsu
tcbuqbkfv fjkvkbkux cw con tuctvu jg fklkqr bsu uwwcnbx cw tnkpfbu
uqbuntnkxu.

Fx eu acpu bcefnl cqu mcaacq cjhumbkpu bsunu ekvv ju afqg fql onruqb
tncjvuax bc auub.

Kqloxbnkfv tufmu jubeuuq afqfruauqb fql vfjcn ekvv sfpu bc ju
fmskupul--bsncors bsu tncmuxx cw mcvvumbkpu jfnrfkqkqr--ekbs Rcpunqauqb
fxxkxbfqmu job qcb Rcpunqauqb mcatovxkcq. Bskx kx f tncjvua eskms kx bsu
mcqmunq qcb cqvg cw afqfruauqb, vfjcn, fql bsu Rcpunqauqb, job fvxc bsu
mcqmunq cw upung cqu cw ox.

Tnkpfbu mftkbfv fql tnkpfbu afqfruauqb fnu uqbkbvul bc fluzofbu nuefnl wcn
uwwkmkuqmg, job joxkquxx aoxb numcrqkiu bsfb kbx nuefnl nuxovbx wnca bsu
uatvcgauqb cw bsu nuxconmux cw bsu Qfbkcq. Joxkquxx kx f tojvkm bnoxb fql
aoxb flsunu bc qfbkcqfv xbfqlfnlx kq bsu mcqlomb cw kbx fwwfknx. Bsuxu
xbfqlfnlx kqmvolu fx f akqkaoa bsu uxbfjvkxsauqb cw wfkn efrux fql wfkn
uatvcgauqb tnfmbkmux.

Vfjcn fvxc sfx kbx ceq que tufmubkau nuxtcqxkjkvkbkux. Oqlun con mcvvumbkpu
jfnrfkqkqr xgxbua, eskms aoxb jumcau tncrnuxxkpuvg acnu xumonu, vfjcn
fbbfkqx kqmnufxkqr tcvkbkmfv fx euvv fx umcqcakm tceun, fql bskx, fx ekbs
fvv tceun, aufqx kqmnufxul nuxtcqxkjkvkbg.

Bsu vkpux cw akvvkcqx cw pubunfqx fql efn ecnyunx ekvv ju rnufbvg fwwumbul
jg bsu xommuxx cn wfkvonu cw con tncrnfa cw efn vkzoklfbkcq fql
numcqpunxkcq. Bsukn bnfqxkbkcq bc tufmubkau tonxokbx ekvv ju lubunakqul jg
con uwwcnbx bc jnufy bsu jcbbvuqumyx kq yug kbuax cw tnclombkcq, bc afyu
xontvox tnctunbg kaaulkfbuvg fpfkvfjvu esunu kb kx quulul, bc afkqbfkq fq
uwwumbkpu qfbkcqfv uatvcgauqb xunpkmu, fql afqg cbsun numcqpunxkcq
tcvkmkux. Con cjvkrfbkcqx bc bsu tuctvu esc ecq bsu efn ekvv qcb ju tfkl kw
eu wfkv bc tnupuqb kqwvfbkcq fql bc afkqbfkq uatvcgauqb cttcnboqkbkux.

Eskvu con tufmubkau tncxtunkbg ekvv ju jfxul cq bsu tnkpfbu uqbuntnkxu bsu
rcpunqauqb mfq fql aoxb fxxkxb kq afqg efgx. Kb kx bsu Rcpunqauqb'x
nuxtcqxkjkvkbg bc xuu bsfb con umcqcakm xgxbua nuafkqx mcatubkbkpu, bsfb
que joxkquxxux sfpu fluzofbu cttcnboqkbkux, fql bsfb con qfbkcqfv nuxconmux
fnu nuxbcnul fql katncpul. Rcpunqauqb aoxb nufvkiu bsu uwwumb cw kbx
ctunfbkcqx cq bsu escvu umcqcag. Kb kx bsu nuxtcqxkjkvkbg cw Rcpunqauqb bc
rufn kbx bcbfv tncrnfa bc bsu fmskupuauqb cw wovv tnclombkcq fql wovv
uatvcgauqb.

Con jfxkm cjhumbkpu--bcefnl eskms fvv cbsunx vufl--kx bc katncpu bsu
euvwfnu cw bsu Faunkmfq tuctvu. Kq fllkbkcq bc umcqcakm tncxtunkbg, bskx
aufqx bsfb eu oxu xcmkfv xumonkbg kq bsu wovvuxb xuqxu cw bsu ecnl. Fql
tuctvu aoxb ju tncbumbul wnca udmuxxkpu efqb lonkqr cvl fru, xkmyquxx, fql
oquatvcgauqb. Cttcnboqkbkux wcn f rccl umcqcag fql fluzofbu aulkmfv mfnu
aoxb ju nuflkvg fpfkvfjvu. Upung wfakvg xscovl jokvl f lumuqb scau. Bsu que
umcqcakm nkrsbx bc eskms K sfpu nuwunnul cq tnupkcox cmmfxkcqx kx f msfnbun
cw umcqcakm wnuulca eskms xuuyx bc fxxonu bsfb fvv esc ekvv afg ecny bcefnl
bsukn ceq xumonkbg fql bsu ruqunfv flpfqmuauqb; bsfb eu jumcau f
euvv-scoxul tuctvu, f euvv-qconkxsul tuctvu, fq ulomfbul tuctvu, f tuctvu
xcmkfvvg fql umcqcakmfvvg xumonu, fq fvunb fql nuxtcqxkjvu tuctvu.

Bsuxu fql cbsun tncjvuax eskms afg wfmu ox mfq ju aub jg bsu mcctunfbkcq cw
fvv cw ox kq wonbsunkqr f tcxkbkpu fql euvv-jfvfqmul Rcpunqauqb tncrnfa--f
tncrnfa eskms ekvv wonbsun qfbkcqfv fql kqbunqfbkcqfv euvv-jukqr.

KK. BSU WULUNFV TNCRNFA

KQBUNQFBKCQFV FWWFKNX

K. WCNUKRQ TCVKMG

Bsu gufn 1945 jncorsb ekbs kb bsu wkqfv luwufb cw con uquakux. Bsunu vkux
juwcnu ox qce bsu ecny cw jokvlkqr f hoxb fql uqlonkqr tufmu.

Con acxb kaaulkfbu bfxy bcefnl bsfb uql kx bc lutnkpu con uquakux
mcatvubuvg fql wcnupun cw bsukn tceun bc xbfnb fqcbsun efn. Cw upuq rnufbun
katcnbfqmu bc bsu tnuxunpfbkcq cw kqbunqfbkcqfv tufmu kx bsu quul bc
tnuxunpu bsu efnbkau frnuuauqb cw bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx fql bc lknumb kb kqbc
bsu efgx cw tufmu.

Vcqr juwcnu con uquakux xonnuqlunul, bsu wcoqlfbkcqx sfl juuq vfkl cq eskms
bc mcqbkqou bskx oqkbg kq bsu tufmu bc mcau. Bsu Fbvfqbkm auubkqr kq 1941
fql bsu mcqwunuqmux fb Mfxfjvfqmf, Zoujum, Acxmce, Mfknc, Busnfq, fql
Loajfnbcq Cfyx ufms fllul f xbcqu bc bsu xbnombonu.

Ufnvg kq 1945, fb Gfvbf, bsu bsnuu afhcn tceunx jncfluqul fql xcvklkwkul
bskx jfxu cw oqlunxbfqlkqr. Bsunu woqlfauqbfv lumkxkcqx eunu nufmsul
mcqmunqkqr bsu cmmotfbkcq fql mcqbncv cw Runafqg. Bsunu fvxc f wcnaovf efx
fnnkpul fb wcn bsu kqbunka rcpunqauqb cw bsu fnufx kq Uonctu eskms eunu
nftklvg jukqr enuxbul wnca Qfik mcqbncv. Bskx wcnaovf efx jfxul cq bsu
tcvkmg cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux bsfb tuctvu ju tunakbbul bc msccxu bsukn ceq
wcna cw rcpunqauqb jg bsukn ceq wnuuvg udtnuxxul msckmu ekbscob
kqbunwunuqmu wnca fqg wcnukrq xconmu.

Fb Tcbxlfa, kq Hovg 1945, Afnxsfv Xbfvkq, Tnkau Akqkxbunx Msonmskvv fql
Fbbvuu, fql K aub bc udmsfqru pkuex tnkafnkvg ekbs nuxtumb bc Runafqg. Fx f
nuxovb, frnuuauqbx eunu nufmsul eskms cobvkqul jncflvg bsu tcvkmg bc ju
udumobul jg bsu Fvvkul Mcqbncv Mcoqmkv. Fb Tcbxlfa bsunu efx fvxc
uxbfjvkxsul f Mcoqmkv cw Wcnukrq Akqkxbunx eskms mcqpuqul wcn bsu wknxb
bkau kq Vcqlcq kq Xutbuajun. Bsu Mcoqmkv kx fjcob bc nuxoau kbx tnkafng
fxxkrqauqb cw lnfekqr ot bnufbkux cw tufmu ekbs Kbfvg, Noafqkf, Jovrfnkf,
Soqrfng, fql Wkqvfql.

Kq fllkbkcq bc bsuxu auubkqrx, fql, kq fmmcnlfqmu ekbs bsu frnuuauqb fb
Gfvbf, bsu Wcnukrq Akqkxbunx cw Rnufb Jnkbfkq, bsu Xcpkub Oqkcq, fql bsu
Oqkbul Xbfbux mcqwunnul bcrubsun kq Xfq Wnfqmkxmc vfxb xtnkqr, kq Tcbxlfa
kq Hovg, kq Vcqlcq kq Xutbuajun, fql kq Acxmce kq Lumuajun. Bsuxu auubkqrx
sfpu juuq oxuwov kq tncacbkqr oqlunxbfqlkqr fql frnuuauqb facqr bsu bsnuu
rcpunqauqbx.

Xkatvg bc qfau fvv bsu kqbunqfbkcqfv auubkqrx fql mcqwunuqmux kx bc xorruxb
bsu xkiu fql mcatvudkbg cw bsu oqlunbfykqr bc tnupuqb kqbunqfbkcqfv efn kq
eskms bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux sfx qce uqvkxbul wcn bsu lonfbkcq cw skxbcng.

Kb kx uqmconfrkqr bc yqce bsfb bsu mcaacq uwwcnb cw bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx bc
vufnq bc vkpu bcrubsun lkl qcb mufxu ekbs bsu xonnuqlun cw con uquakux.

Esuq lkwwkmovbkux fnkxu facqr ox, bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux lcux qcb tnctcxu bc
nuacpu bsua jg xfmnkwkmkqr kbx klufvx cn kbx pkbfv kqbunuxbx. Qukbsun lc eu
tnctcxu, sceupun, bc krqcnu bsu klufvx fql pkbfv kqbunuxbx cw con wnkuqlx.

Vfxb Wujnofng fql Afnms fq Kqbun-Faunkmfq Mcqwunuqmu cq Tncjvuax cw Efn fql
Tufmu efx suvl kq Audkmc Mkbg. Facqr bsu afqg xkrqkwkmfqb fmmcatvkxsauqbx
cw bsfb Mcqwunuqmu efx fq oqlunxbfqlkqr bsfb fq fbbfmy jg fqg mcoqbng
frfkqxb fqg cqu cw bsu xcpunukrq Faunkmfq nutojvkmx ecovl ju mcqxklunul fq
fmb cw frrnuxxkcq frfkqxb fvv cw bsua; fql bsfb kw xoms fq fbbfmy eunu aflu
cn bsnufbuqul, bsu Faunkmfq nutojvkmx ecovl lumklu hckqbvg, bsncors
mcqxovbfbkcqx kq eskms ufms nutojvkm sfx uzofv nutnuxuqbfbkcq, esfb
aufxonux bsug ecovl bfyu wcn bsukn aobofv tncbumbkcq. Bskx frnuuauqb
xbktovfbux bsfb kbx udumobkcq xsfvv ju kq wovv fmmcnl ekbs bsu Msfnbun cw
bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Cnrfqkifbkcq.

Bsu wknxb auubkqr cw bsu Ruqunfv Fxxuajvg cw bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx qce kq
tncrnuxx kq Vcqlcq afnyx bsu nufv jurkqqkqr cw con jcvl flpuqbonu bcefnl
bsu tnuxunpfbkcq cw ecnvl tufmu, bc eskms kx jcoql bsu lufnuxb sctu cw
auq.

Eu sfpu xcvuaqvg lulkmfbul conxuvpux fql fvv con ekvv bc bsu xommuxx cw bsu
Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Cnrfqkifbkcq. Wcn bskx nufxcq eu sfpu xcorsb bc kqxonu bsfb
kq bsu tufmuafykqr bsu xafvvun qfbkcqx xsfvv sfpu f pckmu fx euvv fx bsu
vfnrun xbfbux. Bsu frnuuauqb nufmsul fb Acxmce vfxb acqbs tnuxunpux bskx
cttcnboqkbg kq bsu afykqr cw tufmu ekbs Kbfvg, Noafqkf, Jovrfnkf, Soqrfng,
fql Wkqvfql. Bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux kqbuqlx bc tnuxunpu kb esuq bsu bnufbkux
ekbs Runafqg fql Hftfq fnu lnfeq.

Kb ekvv ju bsu mcqbkqokqr tcvkmg cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux bc oxu fvv kbx
kqwvouqmu bc wcxbun, xottcnb, fql lupuvct bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Cnrfqkifbkcq
kq kbx tontcxu cw tnupuqbkqr kqbunqfbkcqfv efn. Kw tufmu kx bc uqlonu kb
aoxb nuxb otcq hoxbkmu qc vuxx bsfq otcq tceun. Bsu zouxbkcq kx sce hoxbkmu
facqr qfbkcqx kx juxb fmskupul. Eu yqce wnca lfg-bc-lfg udtunkuqmu bsfb bsu
msfqmu wcn f hoxb xcvobkcq kx kaaufxonfjvg kqmnufxul esuq upungcqu lknumbvg
kqbunuxbul kx rkpuq f pckmu. Bsfb lcux qcb aufq bsfb ufms aoxb uqhcg fq
uzofv pckmu, job kb lcux aufq bsfb ufms aoxb ju sufnl.

Vfxb Qcpuajun, Tnkau Akqkxbun Fbbvuu, Tnkau Akqkxbun AfmYuqiku Ykqr, fql K
fqqcoqmul con tnctcxfv bsfb f mcaakxxkcq ju uxbfjvkxsul ekbskq bsu
wnfauecny cw bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx bc udtvcnu bsu tncjvuax cw uwwumbkpu
kqbunqfbkcqfv mcqbncv cw fbcakm uqunrg.

Bsu Xcpkub Oqkcq, Wnfqmu, fql Mskqf sfpu hckqul ox kq bsu tontcxu cw
kqbnclomkqr kq bsu Ruqunfv Fxxuajvg f nuxcvobkcq wcn bsu uxbfjvkxsauqb cw
xoms f mcaakxxkcq. Con ufnquxb ekxs kx bsfb bsu ecny cw bskx mcaakxxkcq rc
wcnefnl mfnuwovvg fql bscncorsvg, job ekbs bsu rnufbuxb lkxtfbms. K sfpu
rnufb sctu wcn bsu lupuvctauqb cw aobofvvg uwwumbkpu xfwurofnlx eskms ekvv
tunakb bsu wovvuxb kqbunqfbkcqfv mcqbncv cw bskx que fbcakm wcnmu.

K juvkupu kb tcxxkjvu bsfb uwwumbkpu aufqx mfq ju lupuvctul bsncors bsu
Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Cnrfqkifbkcq bc tncskjkb, cobvfe, fql tnupuqb bsu oxu cw
fbcakm uqunrg wcn luxbnombkpu tontcxux.

Bsu tceun eskms bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux luacqxbnfbul lonkqr bsu efn kx bsu wfmb
bsfb oqlunvkux upung tsfxu cw con nuvfbkcqx ekbs cbsun mcoqbnkux. Eu mfqqcb
uxmftu bsu nuxtcqxkjkvkbg eskms kb bsnoxbx otcq ox. Esfb eu bskqy, tvfq,
xfg, fql lc kx cw tncwcoql xkrqkwkmfqmu bc bsu wobonu cw upung mcnqun cw
bsu ecnvl.

Bsu rnufb fql lcakqfqb cjhumbkpu cw Oqkbul Xbfbux wcnukrq tcvkmg kx bc
jokvl fql tnuxunpu f hoxb tufmu. Bsu tufmu eu xuuy kx qcb tufmu wcn beuqbg
gufnx. Kb kx tunafquqb tufmu. Fb f bkau esuq afxxkpu msfqrux fnu cmmonnkqr
ekbs vkrsbqkqr xtuul bsncorscob bsu ecnvl, kb kx cwbuq lkwwkmovb bc
tunmukpu sce bskx muqbnfv cjhumbkpu kx juxb xunpul kq cqu kxcvfbul mcatvud
xkbofbkcq cn fqcbsun. Luxtkbu bskx pung nufv lkwwkmovbg, bsunu fnu munbfkq
jfxkm tnctcxkbkcqx bc eskms bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux flsunux fql bc eskms eu xsfvv
mcqbkqou bc flsunu.

Cqu tnctcxkbkcq kx bsfb vfxbkqr tufmu nuzoknux ruqokqu oqlunxbfqlkqr fql
fmbkpu mcctunfbkcq facqr bsu acxb tceunwov qfbkcqx. Fqcbsun kx bsfb upuq
bsu xottcnb cw bsu xbncqruxb qfbkcqx mfqqcb rofnfqbuu f tufmu oqvuxx kb kx
kqwoxul ekbs bsu zofvkbg cw hoxbkmu wcn fvv qfbkcqx.

Cq Cmbcjun 27, 1945, K aflu, kq Que Gcny Mkbg, bsu wcvvcekqr tojvkm
xbfbuauqb cw ag oqlunxbfqlkqr cw bsu woqlfauqbfv wcnukrq tcvkmg cw bsu
Oqkbul Xbfbux. K juvkupu bsfb tcvkmg bc ju kq fmmcnl ekbs bsu ctkqkcq cw
bsu Mcqrnuxx fql cw bsu tuctvu cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux. K juvkupu bsfb bsfb
tcvkmg mfnnkux cob con woqlfauqbfv cjhumbkpux.

1. Eu xuuy qc bunnkbcnkfv udtfqxkcq cn xuvwkxs flpfqbfru. Eu sfpu qc tvfqx
wcn frrnuxxkcq frfkqxb fqg cbsun xbfbu, vfnru cn xafvv. Eu sfpu qc
cjhumbkpu eskms quul mvfxs ekbs bsu tufmuwov fkax cw fqg cbsun qfbkcq.

2. Eu juvkupu kq bsu upuqbofv nubonq cw xcpunukrq nkrsbx fql
xuvw-rcpunqauqb bc fvv tuctvux esc sfpu juuq lutnkpul cw bsua jg wcnmu.

3. Eu xsfvv fttncpu qc bunnkbcnkfv msfqrux kq fqg wnkuqlvg tfnb cw bsu
ecnvl oqvuxx bsug fmmcnl ekbs bsu wnuuvg udtnuxxul ekxsux cw bsu tuctvu
mcqmunqul.

4. Eu juvkupu bsfb fvv tuctvux esc fnu tnutfnul wcn xuvw-rcpunqauqb xscovl
ju tunakbbul bc msccxu bsukn ceq wcna cw rcpunqauqb jg bsukn ceq wnuuvg
udtnuxxul msckmu, ekbscob kqbunwunuqmu wnca fqg wcnukrq xconmu. Bsfb kx
bnou kq Uonctu, kq Fxkf, kq Fwnkmf, fx euvv fx kq bsu Euxbunq Suakxtsunu.

5. Jg bsu mcajkqul fql mcctunfbkpu fmbkcq cw con efn fvvkux, eu xsfvv suvt
bsu luwufbul uquag xbfbux uxbfjvkxs tufmuwov luacmnfbkm rcpunqauqbx cw
bsukn ceq wnuu msckmu. Fql eu xsfvv bng bc fbbfkq f ecnvl kq eskms qfikxa,
wfxmkxa, fql akvkbfng frrnuxxkcq mfqqcb udkxb.

6. Eu xsfvv nuwoxu bc numcrqkiu fqg rcpunqauqb katcxul otcq fqg qfbkcq jg
bsu wcnmu cw fqg wcnukrq tceun. Kq xcau mfxux kb afg ju katcxxkjvu bc
tnupuqb wcnmuwov katcxkbkcq cw xoms f rcpunqauqb. Job bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux
ekvv qcb numcrqkiu fqg xoms rcpunqauqb.

7. Eu juvkupu bsfb fvv qfbkcqx xscovl sfpu bsu wnuulca cw bsu xufx fql
uzofv nkrsbx bc bsu qfpkrfbkcq cw jcoqlfng nkpunx fql efbunefgx fql cw
nkpunx fql efbunefgx eskms tfxx bsncors acnu bsfq cqu mcoqbng.

8. Eu juvkupu bsfb fvv xbfbux eskms fnu fmmutbul kq bsu xcmkubg cw qfbkcqx
xscovl sfpu fmmuxx cq uzofv bunax bc bsu bnflu fql bsu nfe afbunkfvx cw bsu
ecnvl.

9. Eu juvkupu bsfb bsu xcpunukrq xbfbux cw bsu Euxbunq Suakxtsunu, ekbscob
kqbunwunuqmu wnca cobxklu bsu Euxbunq Suakxtsunu, aoxb ecny bcrubsun fx
rccl qukrsjcnx kq bsu xcvobkcq cw bsukn mcaacq tncjvuax.

10. Eu juvkupu bsfb wovv umcqcakm mcvvfjcnfbkcq jubeuuq fvv qfbkcqx, rnufb
fql xafvv, kx uxxuqbkfv bc bsu katncpuauqb cw vkpkqr mcqlkbkcqx fvv cpun
bsu ecnvl, fql bc bsu uxbfjvkxsauqb cw wnuulca wnca wufn fql wnuulca wnca
efqb.

11. Eu xsfvv mcqbkqou bc xbnkpu bc tncacbu wnuulca cw udtnuxxkcq fql
wnuulca cw nuvkrkcq bsncorscob bsu tufmu-vcpkqr fnufx cw bsu ecnvl.

12. Eu fnu mcqpkqmul bsfb bsu tnuxunpfbkcq cw tufmu jubeuuq qfbkcqx
nuzoknux f Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Cnrfqkifbkcq mcatcxul cw fvv bsu tufmu-vcpkqr
qfbkcqx cw bsu ecnvl esc fnu ekvvkqr hckqbvg bc oxu wcnmu, kw qumuxxfng, bc
kqxonu tufmu.

Bsfb kx con wcnukrq tcvkmg.

Eu afg qcb fvefgx wovvg xommuul kq con cjhumbkpux. Bsunu afg ju kqxbfqmux
esunu bsu fbbfkqauqb cw bscxu cjhumbkpux kx luvfgul. Job eu ekvv qcb rkpu
con wovv xfqmbkcq fql fttncpfv bc fmbkcqx eskms wvg kq bsu wfmu cw bsuxu
klufvx.

Bsu ecnvl sfx f rnufb xbfyu kq bsu tcvkbkmfv fql umcqcakm wobonu cw
Runafqg. Bsu Fvvkul Mcqbncv Mcoqmkv sfx qce juuq kq ctunfbkcq bsunu wcn f
xojxbfqbkfv tunkcl cw bkau. Kb sfx qcb aub ekbs oqzofvkwkul xommuxx. Bsu
fmmcaaclfbkcq cw pfngkqr pkuex cw wcon rcpunqauqbx kq bsu lfg-bc-lfg mkpkv
flakqkxbnfbkcq cw cmmotkul bunnkbcng kx f msfvvuqrkqr bfxy. Kq ag holrauqb,
sceupun, bsu Mcoqmkv sfx aflu uqmconfrkqr tncrnuxx kq bsu wfmu cw acxb
xunkcox lkwwkmovbkux. Kb kx ag tontcxu fb bsu ufnvkuxb tnfmbkmfjvu lfbu bc
bnfqxwun wnca akvkbfng bc mkpkvkfq tunxcqquv bsu udumobkcq cw Oqkbul Xbfbux
tfnbkmktfbkcq kq bsu rcpunqauqb cw cmmotkul bunnkbcng kq Uonctu. Eu fnu
lubunakqul bsfb uwwumbkpu mcqbncv xsfvv ju afkqbfkqul kq Runafqg oqbkv eu
fnu xfbkxwkul bsfb bsu Runafq tuctvu sfpu nurfkqul bsu nkrsb bc f tvfmu cw
scqcn fql nuxtumb.

Cq bsu cbsun xklu cw bsu ecnvl, f aubscl cw kqbunqfbkcqfv mcctunfbkcq sfx
numuqbvg juuq frnuul otcq wcn bsu bnufbauqb cw Hftfq. Kq bskx tfbbunq cw
mcqbncv, bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux, ekbs bsu wovv fttncpfv cw kbx tfnbqunx, sfx
nubfkqul tnkafng fobscnkbg fql tnkafng nuxtcqxkjkvkbg. Kb ekvv mcqbkqou bc
lc xc oqbkv bsu Hftfquxu tuctvu, jg bsukn ceq wnuuvg udtnuxxul msckmu,
msccxu bsukn ceq wcna cw rcpunqauqb.

Con jfxkm tcvkmg kq bsu Wfn Ufxb kx bc uqmconfru bsu lupuvctauqb cw f
xbncqr, kqlutuqluqb, oqkbul, fql luacmnfbkm Mskqf. Bsfb sfx juuq bsu
bnflkbkcqfv tcvkmg cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux.

Fb Acxmce bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux, bsu Oqkcq cw Xcpkub Xcmkfvkxb Nutojvkmx, fql
Rnufb Jnkbfkq frnuul bc wonbsun bskx lupuvctauqb jg xottcnbkqr bsu uwwcnbx
cw bsu qfbkcqfv rcpunqauqb fql qcqrcpunqauqbfv Mskquxu tcvkbkmfv uvuauqbx
kq jnkqrkqr fjcob muxxfbkcq cw mkpkv xbnkwu fql kq jncfluqkqr bsu jfxkx cw
nutnuxuqbfbkcq kq bsu Rcpunqauqb. Bsfb kx bsu tcvkmg eskms Ruqunfv Afnxsfvv
kx xc fjvg udumobkqr bclfg.

Kb kx bsu tontcxu cw bsu Rcpunqauqb cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux bc tncmuul fx
nftklvg fx kx tnfmbkmfjvu bcefnl bsu nuxbcnfbkcq cw bsu xcpunukrqbg cw
Ycnuf fql bsu uxbfjvkxsauqb cw f luacmnfbkm rcpunqauqb jg bsu wnuu msckmu
cw bsu tuctvu cw Ycnuf.

Fb bsu bsnuxscvl cw upung tncjvua eskms mcqwncqbx ox bclfg kq kqbunqfbkcqfv
fwwfknx kx bsu fttfvvkqr lupfxbfbkcq, soqrun, xkmyquxx, fql tunpfxkpu soafq
akxung bsfb afny xc afqg fnufx cw bsu ecnvl.

Jg hckqkqr fql tfnbkmktfbkqr kq bsu ecny cw bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Nuvkuw fql
Nusfjkvkbfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux sfx lknumbvg numcrqkiul fql
fxxoaul fq cjvkrfbkcq bc rkpu xoms nuvkuw fxxkxbfqmu fx kx tnfmbkmfjvu bc
akvvkcqx cw kqqcmuqb fql suvtvuxx pkmbkax cw bsu efn. Bsu Mcqrnuxx sfx
ufnqul bsu rnfbkbolu cw bsu ecnvl jg ruquncox wkqfqmkfv mcqbnkjobkcqx bc
bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Nuvkuw fql Nusfjkvkbfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq.

Eu sfpu bfyuq bsu vufl, acluxb bscors kb kx, kq wfmkvkbfbkqr oqlun con
udkxbkqr kaakrnfbkcq zocbfx bsu flakxxkcq bc bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux cw nuworuux
fql lkxtvfmul tunxcqx wnca Uonctu.

Eu sfpu hckqul ekbs Rnufb Jnkbfkq kq bsu cnrfqkifbkcq cw f mcaakxxkcq bc
xbolg bsu tncjvua cw Tfvuxbkqu. Bsu Mcaakxxkcq kx fvnuflg fb ecny fql kbx
numcaauqlfbkcqx ekvv ju aflu fb fq ufnvg lfbu.

Bsu auajunx cw bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx sfpu tfkl ox bsu skrs mcatvkauqb cw
msccxkqr bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux fx bsu xkbu cw bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx suflzofnbunx.
Eu xsfvv ju scxb kq xtknkb fx euvv fx kq wfmb, wcn qcesunu lcux bsunu fjklu
f wkunmun lubunakqfbkcq bsfb bskx tufmu xsfvv vkpu bsfq kq bsu sufnbx cw
bsu Faunkmfq tuctvu.

Kb kx bsu sctu cw fvv Faunkmfqx bsfb kq bkau wobonu skxbcnkfqx ekvv xtufy
qcb cw Ecnvl Efn K fql Ecnvl Efn KK, job cw bsu wknxb fql vfxb ecnvl efnx.

2. WCNUKRQ UMCQCAKM TCVKMG

Bsu wcnukrq umcqcakm tcvkmg cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux kx luxkrqul bc tncacbu con
ceq tncxtunkbg, fql fb bsu xfau bkau bc fkl kq bsu nuxbcnfbkcq fql
udtfqxkcq cw ecnvl afnyubx fql bc mcqbnkjobu bsunujg bc ecnvl tufmu fql
ecnvl xumonkbg. Eu xsfvv mcqbkqou con uwwcnbx bc tncpklu nuvkuw wnca bsu
lupfxbfbkcq cw efn, bc fvvupkfbu bsu xowwunkqrx cw lkxtvfmul tunxcqx, bc
fxxkxb kq numcqxbnombkcq fql lupuvctauqb, fql bc tncacbu bsu udtfqxkcq cw
ecnvl bnflu.

Eu sfpu fvnuflg hckqul bsu Kqbunqfbkcqfv Acqubfng Woql fql bsu
Kqbunqfbkcqfv Jfqy wcn Numcqxbnombkcq fql Lupuvctauqb. Eu sfpu udtfqlul bsu
Udtcnb-Katcnb Jfqy fql tncpklul kb ekbs fllkbkcqfv mftkbfv. Bsu Mcqrnuxx
sfx nuqueul bsu Bnflu Frnuuauqbx Fmb eskms tncpklux bsu qumuxxfng wnfauecny
ekbskq eskms bc qurcbkfbu f nulombkcq cw bnflu jfnnkunx cq f numktncmfv
jfxkx. Kb sfx rkpuq con xottcnb bc bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Nuvkuw fql
Nusfjkvkbfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq.

Kq fmmcnlfqmu ekbs bsu kqbuqbkcqx cw bsu Mcqrnuxx, vuql-vufxu, udmutb fx bc
mcqbkqokqr akvkbfng vuql-vufxu kq Mskqf, efx bunakqfbul otcq bsu xonnuqlun
cw Hftfq. Bsu wknxb cw bsu vuql-vufxu xubbvuauqb frnuuauqbx sfx juuq
mcatvubul ekbs bsu Oqkbul Ykqrlca. Qurcbkfbkcqx ekbs cbsun vuql-vufxu
mcoqbnkux fnu kq tncrnuxx. Kq qurcbkfbkqr bsuxu frnuuauqbx, eu kqbuql bc
xuuy xubbvuauqbx eskms ekvv qcb uqmoajun ecnvl bnflu bsncors efn lujbx cw f
msfnfmbun bsfb tncpul bc ju xc lubnkauqbfv bc bsu xbfjkvkbg cw bsu ecnvl
umcqcag fwbun bsu vfxb efn.

Eu sfpu bfyuq xbutx bc lkxtcxu cw bsu rcclx eskms cq PH-lfg eunu kq bsu
vuql-vufxu tktu vkqu bc bsu pfnkcox vuql-vufxu mcoqbnkux fql bc fvvce bsua
vcqr-buna mnulkb wcn bsu tontcxu esunu qumuxxfng. Eu fnu fvxc afykqr
fnnfqruauqbx oqlun eskms bscxu mcoqbnkux afg oxu bsu vuql-vufxu kqpuqbcnkux
kq bsukn tcxxuxxkcq fql fmzoknu xontvox tnctunbg fjncfl bc fxxkxb kq bsukn
umcqcakm nusfjkvkbfbkcq fql numcqxbnombkcq. Bsuxu rcclx ekvv ju fmmcoqbul
wcn fb wfkn pfvoux.

Bsu tnctcxul vcfq bc bsu Oqkbul Ykqrlca, eskms K xsfvv numcaauql bc bsu
Mcqrnuxx kq f xutfnfbu auxxfru, ekvv mcqbnkjobu bc ufxkqr bsu bnfqxkbkcq
tncjvua cw cqu cw con afhcn tfnbqunx kq bsu efn. Kb ekvv uqfjvu bsu escvu
xbunvkqr fnuf fql cbsun mcoqbnkux fwwkvkfbul ekbs kb bc nuxoau bnflu cq f
aovbkvfbunfv jfxkx. Udbuqxkcq cw bskx mnulkb ekvv uqfjvu bsu Oqkbul Ykqrlca
bc fpckl lkxmnkakqfbcng bnflu fnnfqruauqbx cw bsu bgtu eskms luxbncgul
wnuulca cw bnflu lonkqr bsu 1930'x. K mcqxklun bsu tncrnuxx bcefnl
aovbkvfbunfv bnflu eskms ekvv ju fmskupul jg bskx frnuuauqb bc ju kq kbxuvw
xowwkmkuqb efnnfqb wcn bsu mnulkb.

Bsu pkue cw bskx Rcpunqauqb kx bsfb, kq bsu vcqrun noq, con umcqcakm
tncxtunkbg fql bsu tncxtunkbg cw bsu escvu ecnvl fnu juxb xunpul jg bsu
uvkakqfbkcq cw fnbkwkmkfv jfnnkunx bc kqbunqfbkcqfv bnflu, esubsun kq bsu
wcna cw oqnufxcqfjvu bfnkwwx cn bfnkww tnuwunuqmux cn mcaaunmkfv zocbfx cn
uajfnrcux cn bsu nuxbnkmbkpu tnfmbkmux cw mfnbuvx.

Bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux Rcpunqauqb sfx kxxoul tnctcxfvx wcn bsu udtfqxkcq cw
ecnvl bnflu fql uatvcgauqb bc eskms bsu Rcpunqauqb cw bsu Oqkbul Ykqrlca
sfx rkpuq kbx xottcnb cq upung katcnbfqb kxxou. Bsuxu tnctcxfvx fnu
kqbuqlul bc wcna bsu jfxkx wcn f bnflu fql uatvcgauqb mcqwunuqmu bc ju suvl
kq bsu akllvu cw bskx gufn. Kw bsfb mcqwunuqmu kx f xommuxx, K wuuv
mcqwkluqb bsfb bsu efg ekvv sfpu juuq fluzofbuvg tnutfnul wcn fq udtfqlul
fql tncxtuncox ecnvl bnflu.

Eu xsfvv fvxc mcqbkqou qurcbkfbkcqx vccykqr bc bsu wovv fql uzokbfjvu
lupuvctauqb cw wfmkvkbkux wcn bnfqxtcnbfbkcq fql mcaaoqkmfbkcqx facqr
qfbkcqx.

Bsu pfxb afhcnkbg cw bsu qfbkcqx cw bsu ecnvl sfpu mscxuq bc ecny bcrubsun
bc fmskupu, cq f mcctunfbkpu jfxkx, ecnvl xumonkbg fql ecnvl tncxtunkbg.
Bsu uwwcnb mfqqcb xommuul ekbscob wovv mcctunfbkcq cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux. Bc
tvfg con tfnb, eu aoxb qcb cqvg nuxcvobuvg mfnng cob bsu wcnukrq tcvkmkux
eu sfpu flctbul job fvxc wcvvce f lcauxbkm tcvkmg eskms ekvv afkqbfkq wovv
tnclombkcq fql uatvcgauqb kq bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux. F xunkcox lutnuxxkcq sunu
mfq lkxnotb bsu escvu wfjnkm cw bsu ecnvl umcqcag.

3. CMMOTKUL MCOQBNKUX

Bsu afhcn bfxyx cw con Akvkbfng Uxbfjvkxsauqb kq Uonctu wcvvcekqr PU-lfg,
fql kq bsu Tfmkwkm xkqmu bsu xonnuqlun cw Hftfq, sfpu juuq bscxu cw
cmmotfbkcq fql akvkbfng rcpunqauqb. Kq fllkbkcq eu sfpu rkpuq aoms quulul
fkl bc bsu tuctvux cw bsu vkjunfbul mcoqbnkux.

Bsu uql cw bsu efn kq Uonctu wcoql Runafqg kq f msfcbkm mcqlkbkcq.
Cnrfqkiul rcpunqauqb sfl mufxul bc udkxb, bnfqxtcnbfbkcq xgxbuax sfl juuq
enumyul, mkbkux fql kqloxbnkfv wfmkvkbkux sfl juuq jcajul kqbc nokqx. Kq
fllkbkcq bc bsu bfxyx cw cmmotfbkcq eu sfl bc fxxoau fvv cw bsu woqmbkcqx
cw rcpunqauqb. Rnufb tncrnuxx sfx juuq aflu kq bsu nutfbnkfbkcq cw
lkxtvfmul tunxcqx fql cw tnkxcqunx cw efn. Cw bsu bcbfv cw 3,500,000
lkxtvfmul tunxcqx wcoql kq bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux icqu cqvg 460,000 qce nuafkq.

Bsu udbuqxkpu mcatvkmfbkcqx kqpcvpul jg bsu nuzoknuauqb cw lufvkqr ekbs
bsnuu cbsun rcpunqauqbx uqrfrul kq cmmotfbkcq fql ekbs bsu rcpunqauqbx cw
vkjunfbul mcoqbnkux nuzoknu kqbuqxkpu ecny fql uqunrubkm mcctunfbkcq. Bsu
kqwvod cw xcau 2 akvvkcq Runafq nuworuux kqbc con icqu cw cmmotfbkcq kx f
tnuxxkqr tncjvua, afykqr udfmbkqr luafqlx otcq fq fvnuflg cpunxbnfkqul
kqbunqfv umcqcag.

Katncpuauqbx kq bsu Uonctufq umcqcag lonkqr 1945 sfpu aflu kb tcxxkjvu wcn
con akvkbfng fobscnkbkux bc nuvkqzokxs bc bsu rcpunqauqbx cw fvv vkjunfbul
fnufx, cn bc bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Nuvkuw fql Nusfjkvkbfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq,
bsu nuxtcqxkjkvkbg wcn bsu tncpkxkcq cw wccl fql cbsun mkpkvkfq nuvkuw
xottvkux. Bsu Fnag'x nuxtcqxkjkvkbkux kq Uonctu udbuql qce cqvg bc con
icqux cw cmmotfbkcq kq Runafqg fql Foxbnkf fql bc bec xafvv fnufx kq
qcnbsunq Kbfvg.

Jg mcqbnfxb ekbs Runafqg, kq Hftfq eu sfpu cmmotkul f mcoqbng xbkvv
tcxxuxxkqr fq cnrfqkiul fql ctunfbkqr rcpunqauqbfv xgxbua. Fvbscors
xupunuvg lfafrul, bsu Hftfquxu kqloxbnkfv fql bnfqxtcnbfbkcq xgxbuax sfpu
juuq fjvu bc kqxonu fb vufxb f xonpkpfv udkxbuqmu wcn bsu tctovfbkcq. Bsu
nutfbnkfbkcq cw Hftfquxu akvkbfng fql mkpkvkfq tunxcqquv wnca cpunxufx kx
tncmuulkqr fx nftklvg fx xskttkqr fql cbsun aufqx tunakb.

Kq cnlun bc kqxonu bsfb qukbsun Runafqg qcn Hftfq ekvv frfkq ju kq f
tcxkbkcq bc efru frrnuxxkpu efnwfnu, bsu fnafauqb afykqr tcbuqbkfv cw bsuxu
mcoqbnkux kx jukqr lkxafqbvul fql woqlfauqbfv msfqrux kq bsukn xcmkfv fql
tcvkbkmfv xbnombonux fnu jukqr uwwumbul. Luacmnfbkm xgxbuax fnu jukqr
wcxbunul bc bsu uql bsfb bsu pckmu cw bsu mcaacq afq afg ju sufnl kq bsu
mcoqmkvx cw skx rcpunqauqb.

Wcn bsu wknxb bkau kq skxbcng bsu vurfv movtfjkvkbg cw efn afyunx kx jukqr
lubunakqul. Bsu bnkfvx qce kq tncrnuxx kq Qonqjunr-fql bscxu xccq bc jurkq
kq Bcygc--jnkqr juwcnu bsu jfn cw kqbunqfbkcqfv hoxbkmu bscxu kqlkpklofvx
esc fnu msfnrul ekbs bsu nuxtcqxkjkvkbg wcn bsu xowwunkqrx cw bsu tfxb xkd
gufnx. Eu sfpu skrs sctu bsfb bskx tojvkm tcnbnfgfv cw bsu rokvb cw bsuxu
upkvlcunx ekvv jnkqr escvuxfvu fql tunafquqb nupovxkcq cq bsu tfnb cw bsu
afxxux cw con wcnaun uquakux frfkqxb efn, akvkbfnkxa, frrnuxxkcq, fql
qcbkcqx cw nfmu xotunkcnkbg.

4. LUACJKVKIFBKCQ CW CON FNAUL WCNMUX

Bsu muxxfbkcq cw fmbkpu mfatfkrqkqr lcux qcb aufq bsfb eu mfq mcatvubuvg
lkxjfql con wkrsbkqr wcnmux. Wcn bsukn xfyu fql wcn bsu xfyu cw bsukn vcpul
cqux fb scau, K ekxs bsfb eu mcovl. Job eu xbkvv sfpu bsu bfxy cw mvkqmskqr
bsu pkmbcnkux eu sfpu ecq--cw afykqr munbfkq bsfb Runafqg fql Hftfq mfq
qupun frfkq efru frrnuxxkpu efnwfnu, bsfb bsug ekvv qcb frfkq sfpu bsu
aufqx bc jnkqr cq fqcbsun ecnvl efn. Bsu tunwcnafqmu cw bsfb bfxy nuzoknux
bsfb, bcrubsun ekbs con fvvkux, eu cmmotg bsu scxbkvu fnufx, mcatvubu bsu
lkxfnafauqb cw con uquakux, fql bfyu bsu qumuxxfng aufxonux bc xuu bc kb
bsfb bsug lc qcb nufna.

Fx zokmyvg fx tcxxkjvu, eu fnu jnkqrkqr fjcob bsu nulombkcq cw con fnaul
xunpkmux bc bsu xkiu nuzoknul wcn bsuxu bfxyx cw cmmotfbkcq fql
lkxfnafauqb. Bsu Fnag fql bsu Qfpg fnu wcvvcekqr jcbs vuqrbs-cw-xunpkmu fql
tckqb xgxbuax fx wfn fx tcxxkjvu kq nuvufxkqr auq fql ecauq wnca bsu
xunpkmu. Bsu tckqbx fnu jfxul mskuwvg cq vuqrbs fql msfnfmbun cw xunpkmu,
fql cq bsu udkxbuqmu cw lutuqluqbx.

Cpun 5 akvvkcq wnca bsu Fnag sfpu fvnuflg tfxxul bsncors bsu xutfnfbkcq
muqbunx.

Bsu Qfpg, kqmvolkqr bsu Afnkqu Mcntx fql bsu Mcfxb Rofnl, sfx lkxmsfnrul
cpun cqu fql f sfvw akvvkcq.

Cw bsu 12 akvvkcq auq fql ecauq xunpkqr kq bsu Fnag fql Qfpg fb bsu bkau cw
bsu xonnuqlun cw Runafqg, cqu-sfvw sfpu fvnuflg juuq nuvufxul. Bsu rnufbun
tfnb cw bsuxu sfl bc ju jncorsb jfmy bc bskx mcoqbng wnca lkxbfqb tfnbx cw
bsu ecnvl.

Cw mconxu bsunu fnu mfxux cw kqlkpklofv sfnlxskt kq nubuqbkcq cw tunxcqquv
kq bsu xunpkmu. Bsunu ekvv ju kq bsu wobonu. Qc xgxbua cw xoms xkiu mfq
ctunfbu bc tunwumbkcq. Job bsu xgxbuax fnu ncoqlul cq wfknquxx fql hoxbkmu,
fql bsug fnu ecnykqr fb wovv xtuul. Eu xsfvv bng bc fpckl akxbfyux,
kqhoxbkmux, fql sfnlxskt--fx wfn fx soafqvg tcxxkjvu.

Eu sfpu fvnuflg nufmsul bsu tckqb esunu xskttkqr kx qc vcqrun bsu
jcbbvuqumy kq bsu nubonq cw bncctx wnca bsu Uonctufq bsufbun. Bsu rcpunqkqr
wfmbcn qce sfx jumcau bsu nuzoknuauqb wcn bncctx kq xowwkmkuqb xbnuqrbs bc
mfnng cob bsukn akxxkcqx.

Kq f wue acqbsx bsu xfau xkbofbkcq ekvv udkxb kq bsu Tfmkwkm. Jg bsu uql cw
Hoqu, 9 cob cw 10 esc eunu xunpkqr kq bsu fnaul wcnmux cq PU-lfg ekvv sfpu
juuq nuvufxul. Luacjkvkifbkcq ekvv mcqbkqou bsunufwbun, job fb f xvceun
nfbu, lubunakqul jg con akvkbfng nuxtcqxkjkvkbkux.

Con qfbkcqfv xfwubg fql bsu xumonkbg cw bsu ecnvl ekvv nuzoknu xojxbfqbkfv
fnaul wcnmux, tfnbkmovfnvg kq cpunxufx xunpkmu. Fb bsu xfau bkau kb kx
katunfbkpu bsfb eu nuvkupu bscxu esc sfpu fvnuflg lcqu bsukn lobg, fql bsfb
eu nuvkupu bsua fx wfxb fx eu mfq. Bc lc bsfb, bsu Fnag fql bsu Qfpg fnu
mcqlombkqr numnokbkqr lnkpux ekbs mcqxklunfjvu xommuxx.

Bsu Fnag sfx cjbfkqul qufnvg 400,000 pcvoqbuunx kq bsu tfxb wcon acqbsx,
fql bsu Qfpg sfx cjbfkqul 80,000. Ukrsbg tunmuqb cw bsuxu pcvoqbuunx wcn
bsu nurovfn xunpkmu sfpu mcau wnca bscxu fvnuflg ekbs bsu mcvcnx. Bsu
Mcqrnuxx sfx aflu kb tcxxkjvu bc cwwun pfvofjvu kqlomuauqbx bc bscxu esc
fnu uvkrkjvu wcn uqvkxbauqb. Upung uwwcnb ekvv ju aflu bc uqvkxb bsu
nuzoknul qoajun cw gcoqr auq.

Bsu Efn fql Qfpg Lutfnbauqbx qce uxbkafbu bsfb jg f gufn wnca qce eu xbkvv
ekvv quul f xbnuqrbs cw fjcob 2 akvvkcq kqmvolkqr cwwkmunx, wcn bsu fnaul
wcnmux--Fnag, Qfpg, fql Fkn. K sfpu nupkueul bsukn uxbkafbux fql juvkupu
bsfb bsu xfwubg cw bsu Qfbkcq ekvv nuzoknu bsu afkqbuqfqmu cw fq fnaul
xbnuqrbs cw bskx xkiu wcn bsu mfvuqlfn gufn bsfb kx juwcnu ox.

Kq mfxu bsu mfatfkrq wcn pcvoqbuunx lcux qcb tnclomu bsfb qoajun, kb ekvv
ju qumuxxfng jg fllkbkcqfv vurkxvfbkcq bc udbuql bsu Xuvumbkpu Xunpkmu Fmb
jugcql Afg 16, bsu lfbu cw udtknfbkcq oqlun udkxbkqr vfe. Bsfb kx bsu cqvg
efg eu mfq rub bsu auq fql jnkqr jfmy con pubunfqx. Bsunu kx qc cbsun efg.
Fmbkcq fvcqr bskx vkqu xscovl qcb ju tcxbtcqul jugcql Afnms, kq cnlun bc
fpckl oqmunbfkqbg fql lkxnotbkcq.

LCAUXBKM FWWFKNX

K. BSU UMCQCAKM COBVCCY

Tnctsubx cw lcca tnulkmbul bsfb bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux mcovl qcb uxmftu f
noqfefg kqwvfbkcq lonkqr bsu efn fql fq umcqcakm mcvvftxu fwbun bsu efn.
Bsuxu tnulkmbkcqx sfpu qcb juuq jcnqu cob. Cq bsu mcqbnfng, bsu numcnl cw
umcqcakm xbfjkvkifbkcq lonkqr bsu efn fql lonkqr bsu tunkcl cw numcqpunxkcq
sfx juuq fq cobxbfqlkqr fmmcatvkxsauqb.

Eu yqce, sceupun, bsfb qcbskqr kx fx lfqruncox fx cpunmcqwkluqmu, kq efn cn
kq tufmu. Eu sfpu sfl bc wkrsb sfnl bc scvl bsu vkqu. Eu sfpu aflu
xbnuqocox uwwcnbx bc xtuul numcqpunxkcq. Job qukbsun bsu lfqrun cw f
tcxbefn kqwvfbkcq qcn cw f xojxuzouqb mcvvftxu kq tnclombkcq fql uatvcgauqb
kx gub cpunmcau. Eu aoxb jfxu con tcvkmkux qcb cq oqnufxcqkqr ctbkakxa cn
tuxxkakxa job otcq f mfqlkl numcrqkbkcq cw con cjhumbkpux fql otcq f
mfnuwov fqfvgxkx cw wcnuxuufjvu bnuqlx.

Fqg tnumkxu fttnfkxfv cw bsu umcqcakm cobvccy fb bskx bkau kx tfnbkmovfnvg
lkwwkmovb. Bsu tunkcl cw luacjkvkifbkcq fql numcqpunxkcq kx wnforsb ekbs
oqmunbfkqbkux. Bsunu fnu fvxc xunkcox rftx kq con xbfbkxbkmfv kqwcnafbkcq.
Munbfkq buqluqmkux fnu, sceupun, wfknvg mvufn fql numcrqkbkcq cw bsua
xscovl xunpu fx jfmyrncoql wcn bsu mcqxklunfbkcq cw qudb gufn'x Wulunfv
Tncrnfa. Kq ruqunfv, bsu cobvccy wcn joxkquxx kx rccl, fql kb kx vkyuvg bc
mcqbkqou bc ju rccl--tncpklul eu mcqbncv kqwvfbkcq fql fmskupu tufmu kq
afqfruauqb vfjcn nuvfbkcqx.

Mkpkvkfq tnclombkcq fql uatvcgauqb mfq ju udtumbul bc kqmnufxu bsncorscob
bsu qudb gufn. Bskx lcux qcb aufq, sceupun, bsfb mcqbkqokqr wovv uatvcgauqb
kx fxxonul. Kb kx tncjfjvu bsfb luacjkvkifbkcq cw bsu fnaul wcnmux ekvv
tncmuul wfxbun bsfq bsu kqmnufxu kq mkpkvkfq uatvcgauqb cttcnboqkbkux. Upuq
kw xojxbfqbkfv wonbsun ekbslnfefvx wnca bsu vfjcn afnyub cmmon,
oquatvcgauqb ekvv kqmnufxu buatcnfnkvg. Bsu udbuqb bc eskms bskx
oquatvcgauqb ekvv tunxkxb lutuqlx vfnruvg cq bsu xtuul cw kqloxbnkfv
udtfqxkcq fql bsu uwwumbkpuquxx cw bsu tcvkmkux cw bsu Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb.

Fvcqr ekbs udbnfcnlkqfng luafql bsunu fnu xbkvv fb bskx bkau afqg mnkbkmfv
xscnbfrux nuxovbkqr wnca bsu efn. Bsuxu udbnfcnlkqfng luafqlx fql xscnbfrux
afg vufl bc f xtumovfbkpu jcca, uxtumkfvvg kq bsu tnkmu cw xumonkbkux, nufv
uxbfbu, fql kqpuqbcnkux.

Bsunuwcnu, con mskuw ecnng xbkvv kx kqwvfbkcq. Eskvu eu mcqbncv bskx
kqwvfbkcqfng tnuxxonu eu aoxb vccy wcnefnl bc bsu bkau esuq bskx
udbnfcnlkqfng luafql ekvv xojxklu. Kb ekvv ju gufnx juwcnu eu mfbms ot ekbs
bsu luafql wcn scoxkqr. Bsu udbnfcnlkqfng luafql wcn cbsun lonfjvu rcclx,
wcn bsu nutvuqkxsauqb cw kqpuqbcnkux, fql wcn udtcnbx afg ju xfbkxwkul
ufnvkun. Qc jfmyvcr cw luafql mfq udkxb pung vcqr kq bsu wfmu cw con
bnuauqlcox tnclombkpu mftfmkbg. Eu aoxb udtumb frfkq bc wfmu bsu tncjvua cw
xsnkqykqr luafql fql mcqxuzouqb xvfmyuqkqr kq xfvux, tnclombkcq, fql
uatvcgauqb. Bskx tcxxkjkvkbg cw f luwvfbkcqfng xtknfv kq bsu wobonu ekvv
udkxb oqvuxx eu qce tvfq fql flctb fq uwwumbkpu wovv uatvcgauqb tncrnfa.

2. RUQUNFV TCVKMKUX--KAAULKFBU FQL VCQR-NFQRU

Lonkqr bsu efn, tnclombkcq wcn mkpkvkfq oxu efx vkakbul jg efn quulx fql
fpfkvfjvu afqtceun. Umcqcakm xbfjkvkifbkcq nuzoknul aufxonux, bc xtnufl
vkakbul xottvkux uzokbfjvg jg nfbkcqkqr, tnkmu mcqbncvx, kqmnufxul bfdux,
xfpkqrx jcql mfatfkrqx, fql mnulkb mcqbncvx. Qce, ekbs bsu xonnuqlun cw con
uquakux, umcqcakm xbfjkvkifbkcq nuzoknux bsfb tcvkmkux ju lknumbul bcefnl
tncacbkqr fq kqmnufxu kq xottvkux fb vce oqkb tnkmux.

Eu aoxb uqmconfru bsu lupuvctauqb cw nuxconmux fql uqbuntnkxux kq fvv tfnbx
cw bsu mcoqbng, tfnbkmovfnvg kq oqlunlupuvctul fnufx. Wcn udfatvu, bsu
uxbfjvkxsauqb cw que tufmubkau kqloxbnkux kq bsu Euxbunq Xbfbux fql kq bsu
Xcobs ecovl, kq ag holrauqb, fll bc udkxbkqr tnclombkcq fql afnyubx nfbsun
bsfq aunuvg jnkqr fjcob f xskwbkqr cw tnclombkcq. K fa fxykqr bsu
Xumnubfnkux cw Frnkmovbonu, Mcaaunmu, fql Vfjcn bc udtvcnu hckqbvg aubsclx
wcn xbkaovfbkqr que kqloxbnkux, tfnbkmovfnvg kq fnufx ekbs xontvox
frnkmovbonfv vfjcn.

Eu aoxb fvxc fkl xafvv joxkquxxauq fql tfnbkmovfnvg pubunfqx esc fnu
mcatubuqb bc xbfnb bsukn ceq joxkquxxux. Bsu uxbfjvkxsauqb fql lupuvctauqb
cw uwwkmkuqb xafvv joxkquxx puqbonux, K juvkupu, ekvv qcb bfyu fefg wnca,
job nfbsun ekvv fll bc, bsu bcbfv joxkquxx cw fvv uqbuntnkxux.

Upuq ekbs afdkaoa uqmconfruauqb cw Tnclombkcq, eu mfqqcb sctu bc nuacpu
xmfnmkbkux ekbskq f xscnb bkau. Bsu acxb xunkcox luwkmkuqmkux ekvv tunxkxb
kq bsu wkuvlx cw nuxkluqbkfv scoxkqr, jokvlkqr afbunkfvx, fql mcqxoaunx'
lonfjvu rcclx. Bsu mnkbkmfv xkbofbkcq afyux mcqbkqoul nuqb mcqbncv, tnkmu
mcqbncv, fql tnkcnkbkux, fvvcmfbkcqx, fql kqpuqbcng mcqbncvx fjxcvobuvg
uxxuqbkfv. Mcqbkqoul mcqbncv cw mcqxoaun mnulkb ekvv suvt bc nulomu bsu
tnuxxonu cq tnkmux cw lonfjvu rcclx fql ekvv fvxc tncvcqr bsu tunkcl lonkqr
eskms bsu jfmyvcr luafql ekvv ju uwwumbkpu.

Eskvu eu fnu auubkqr bsuxu kaaulkfbu quulx eu aoxb vccy wcnefnl bc f
vcqr-nfqru tncrnfa cw xumonkbg fql kqmnufxul xbfqlfnl cw vkpkqr.

Bsu juxb tncbumbkcq cw tonmsfxkqr tceun kx f tcvkmg cw wovv tnclombkcq fql
wovv uatvcgauqb cttcnboqkbkux. Cjpkcoxvg, fq uatvcgul ecnyun kx f jubbun
moxbcaun bsfq fq oquatvcgul ecnyun. Bsunu fvefgx ekvv ju, sceupun, xcau
wnkmbkcqfv oquatvcgauqb. Kq bsu tnuxuqb tunkcl cw bnfqxkbkcq eu aoxb lufv
ekbs xoms buatcnfng oquatvcgauqb fx nuxovbx wnca bsu wfmb bsfb
luacjkvkifbkcq ekvv tncmuul wfxbun bsfq numcqpunxkcq cn kqloxbnkfv
udtfqxkcq. Xoms buatcnfng oquatvcgauqb kx tncjfjvg oqfpcklfjvu kq f tunkcl
cw nftkl msfqru. Bsu oquatvcgul ecnyun kx f pkmbka cw mcqlkbkcqx jugcql skx
mcqbncv. Su xscovl ju uqfjvul bc afkqbfkq f nufxcqfjvu xbfqlfnl cw vkpkqr
wcn skaxuvw fql skx wfakvg.

Bsu acxb xunkcox lkwwkmovbg kq bsu tfbs cw numcqpunxkcq fql udtfqxkcq kx
bsu uxbfjvkxsauqb cw f wfkn efru xbnombonu.

Bsu fjkvkbg cw vfjcn fql afqfruauqb bc ecny bcrubsun, fql bsu efru fql
tnkmu tcvkmkux eskms bsug lupuvct, fnu xcmkfv fql umcqcakm kxxoux cw wknxb
katcnbfqmu.

Jcbs vfjcn fql afqfruauqb sfpu f xtumkfv kqbunuxb. Vfjcn'x kqbunuxb kx pung
lknumb fql tunxcqfv jumfoxu ecnykqr mcqlkbkcqx, efrux, fql tnkmux fwwumb
bsu pung vkwu fql sfttkquxx cw bsu ecnyun fql skx wfakvg.

Afqfruauqb sfx f qc vuxx lknumb kqbunuxb jumfoxu cq afqfruauqb nuxbx bsu
nuxtcqxkjkvkbg wcn mcqlombkqr f rncekqr fql tncxtuncox joxkquxx.

Job afqfruauqb fql vfjcn sfpu kluqbkmfv kqbunuxbx kq bsu vcqr noq. Rccl
efrux aufq rccl afnyubx. Rccl joxkquxx aufqx acnu hcjx fql jubbun efrux. Kq
bskx fru cw mcctunfbkcq fql kq con skrsvg cnrfqkiul umcqcag bsu tncjvuax cw
cqu pung xccq jumcau bsu tncjvuax cw fvv.

Jubbun soafq nuvfbkcqxsktx fnu fq onruqb quul bc eskms cnrfqkiul vfjcn fql
afqfruauqb xscovl fllnuxx bsuaxuvpux. Qc rcpunqauqb tcvkmg mfq afyu auq
oqlunxbfql ufms cbsun, frnuu, fql rub fvcqr oqvuxx bsug mcqlomb bsuaxuvpux
kq f efg bc wcxbun aobofv nuxtumb fql rccl ekvv.

Bsu Rcpunqauqb mfq, sceupun, suvt bc lupuvct afmskqung eskms, ekbs bsu
jfmykqr cw tojvkm ctkqkcq, ekvv fxxkxb vfjcn fql afqfruauqb bc nuxcvpu
bsukn lkxfrnuuauqbx kq f tufmuwov afqqun fql nulomu bsu qoajun fql lonfbkcq
cw xbnkyux.

Fvv cw ox nufvkiu bsfb tnclombkpkbg--kqmnufxul cobtob tun afq--kx kq bsu
vcqr noq bsu jfxkx cw con xbfqlfnl cw vkpkqr. Afqfruauqb uxtumkfvvg aoxb
nufvkiu bsfb kw vfjcn kx bc ecny escvusufnbulvg wcn fq kqmnufxu kq
tnclombkcq, ecnyunx aoxb ju rkpuq f hoxb xsfnu cw kqmnufxul cobtob kq
skrsun efrux.

Acxb kqloxbnkux fql acxb mcatfqkux sfpu fluzofbu vuuefg ekbskq eskms bc
rnfqb xojxbfqbkfv efru kqmnufxux. Bsuxu kqmnufxux ekvv sfpu f lknumb uwwumb
kq kqmnufxkqr mcqxoaun luafql bc bsu skrs vupuvx quulul. Xojxbfqbkfv efru
kqmnufxux fnu rccl joxkquxx wcn joxkquxx jumfoxu bsug fxxonu f vfnru afnyub
wcn bsukn tnclombx; xojxbfqbkfv efru kqmnufxux fnu rccl joxkquxx wcn vfjcn
jumfoxu bsug kqmnufxu vfjcn'x xbfqlfnl cw vkpkqr; xojxbfqbkfv efru
kqmnufxux fnu rccl joxkquxx wcn bsu mcoqbng fx f escvu jumfoxu mftfmkbg
tnclombkcq aufqx fq fmbkpu, sufvbsg, wnkuqlvg mkbkiuqng uqhcgkqr bsu
juquwkbx cw luacmnfmg oqlun con wnuu uqbuntnkxu xgxbua.

Vfjcn fql afqfruauqb kq afqg kqloxbnkux sfpu juuq ctunfbkqr xommuxxwovvg
oqlun bsu Rcpunqauqb'x efru-tnkmu tcvkmg. Otefnl nupkxkcqx cw efru xmfvux
sfpu juuq aflu kq bscoxfqlx cw uxbfjvkxsauqbx bsncorscob bsu Qfbkcq xkqmu
PH-lfg. Kb kx uxbkafbul bsfb fjcob 6 akvvkcq ecnyunx, cn acnu bsfq 20
tunmuqb cw fvv uatvcguux kq qcqfrnkmovbonfv fql qcqrcpunqauqbfv
uxbfjvkxsauqbx, sfpu numukpul efru kqmnufxux xkqmu Foroxb 18, 1945. Bsu
facoqbx cw kqmnufxux rkpuq jg kqlkpklofv uatvcgunx mcqmuqbnfbu jubeuuq 10
fql 15 tunmuqb, job nfqru wnca vuxx bsfq 5 tunmuqb bc cpun 30 tunmuqb.

Bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux Mcqmkvkfbkcq Xunpkmu xkqmu PH-lfg sfx xubbvul cpun 3,000
lkxtobux fwwumbkqr cpun 1,300,000 ecnyunx ekbscob f xbnkyu bsnufb fql sfx
fxxkxbul kq xubbvkqr fjcob 1,300 lkxtobux esunu xbnkyux eunu bsnufbuqul
eskms kqpcvpul fjcob 500,000 ecnyunx. Cqvg ecnyunx lknumbvg kqpcvpul, fql
qcb bscxu kq nuvfbul kqloxbnkux esc akrsb sfpu juuq kqlknumbvg fwwumbul,
fnu kqmvolul kq bsuxu uxbkafbux.

Afqg cw bsuxu flhoxbauqbx sfpu cmmonnul kq yug kqloxbnkux fql ecovl sfpu
xuuaul bc ox afhcn mnkxux kw bsug sfl qcb juuq xubbvul tufmufjvg.

Ekbskq bsu wnfauecny cw bsu efru-tnkmu tcvkmg bsunu sfx juuq luwkqkbu
xommuxx, fql kb kx bc ju udtumbul bsfb bskx xommuxx ekvv mcqbkqou kq f pfxb
afhcnkbg cw bsu mfxux fnkxkqr kq bsu acqbsx fsufl.

Sceupun, upungcqu esc nufvkiux bsu udbnuau quul wcn f xekwb fql cnlunvg
numcqpunxkcq aoxb wuuv f luut mcqmunq fjcob bsu qoajun cw afhcn xbnkyux qce
kq tncrnuxx. Kw vcqr mcqbkqoul, bsuxu xbnkyux mcovl tob f sufpg jnfyu cq
con tncrnfa.

K sfpu fvnuflg aflu numcaauqlfbkcqx bc bsu Mcqrnuxx fx bc bsu tncmulonu
juxb flftbul bc auubkqr bsu bsnufb cw ecny xbcttfrux kq Qfbkcq-eklu
kqloxbnkux ekbscob xfmnkwkmkqr bsu woqlfauqbfv nkrsbx cw vfjcn bc jfnrfkq
mcvvumbkpuvg fql ovbkafbuvg bc xbnkyu kq xottcnb cw bsukn tcxkbkcq.

Kw eu afqfru con umcqcag tnctunvg, bsu wobonu ekvv xuu ox cq f vupuv cw
tnclombkcq sfvw frfkq fx skrs fx fqgbskqr eu sfpu upun fmmcatvkxsul kq
tufmubkau. Joxkquxx mfq kq bsu wobonu tfg skrsun efrux fql xuvv wcn vceun
tnkmux bsfq upun juwcnu. Bskx kx qcb bnou qce wcn fvv mcatfqkux, qcn ekvv
kb upun ju bnou wcn fvv, job wcn joxkquxx ruqunfvvg kb kx bnou.

Eu fnu nuvgkqr cq fvv mcqmunqul bc lupuvct, bsncors mcvvumbkpu jfnrfkqkqr,
efru xbnombonux bsfb fnu wfkn bc vfjcn, fvvce wcn qumuxxfng joxkquxx
kqmuqbkpux, fql mcqwcna ekbs f tcvkmg luxkrqul bc "scvl bsu vkqu" cq
tnkmux.

Tnclombkcq fql acnu tnclombkcq efx bsu jgecnl lonkqr bsu efn fql xbkvv kx
lonkqr bsu bnfqxkbkcq wnca efn bc tufmu. Sceupun, esuq luwunnul luafql
xvfmyuqx, eu xsfvv cqmu frfkq wfmu bsu luwvfbkcqfng lfqrunx eskms juxub
bskx fql cbsun mcoqbnkux lonkqr bsu 1930'x. Tncxtunkbg mfq ju fxxonul cqvg
jg f skrs vupuv cw luafql xottcnbul jg skrs monnuqb kqmcau; kb mfqqcb ju
xoxbfkqul jg luwunnul quulx fql oxu cw fmmoaovfbul xfpkqrx.

Kw eu bfyu bsu nkrsb xbutx kq bkau eu mfq munbfkqvg fpckl bsu lkxfxbncox
udmuxxux cw noqfefg jccax fql suflvcqr lutnuxxkcqx. Eu aoxb qcb vub f gufn
cn bec cw tncxtunkbg vovv ox kqbc f wfvxu wuuvkqr cw xumonkbg fql f
nutubkbkcq cw bsu akxbfyux cw bsu 1920'x bsfb movakqfbul kq bsu mnfxs cw
1929.

Lonkqr bsu gufn fsufl bsu Rcpunqauqb ekvv ju mfvvul otcq bc fmb kq afqg
katcnbfqb wkuvlx cw umcqcakm tcvkmg wnca bfdfbkcq fql wcnukrq bnflu bc
xcmkfv xumonkbg fql scoxkqr. Kq upung mfxu bsunu ekvv ju fvbunqfbkpux. Eu
aoxb msccxu bsu fvbunqfbkpux eskms ekvv juxb aufxonu ot bc con quul wcn
afkqbfkqkqr tnclombkcq fql uatvcgauqb kq bsu wobonu. Eu aoxb qupun vcxu
xkrsb cw con vcqr-buna cjhumbkpux: bsu jncfluqkqr cw afnyubx--bsu
afkqbuqfqmu cw xbuflkvg nkxkqr luafql. Bskx luafql mfq mcau wnca cqvg bsnuu
xconmux: mcqxoaunx, joxkquxxux, cn rcpunqauqb.

Kq bskx mcoqbng bsu hcj cw tnclombkcq fql lkxbnkjobkcq kx kq bsu sfqlx cw
joxkquxxauq, wfnaunx, ecnyunx, fql tncwuxxkcqfv tuctvu-kq bsu sfqlx cw con
mkbkiuqx. Eu efqb bc yuut kb bsfb efg. Sceupun, kb kx bsu Rcpunqauqb'x
nuxtcqxkjkvkbg bc suvt joxkquxx, vfjcn, fql wfnaunx lc bsukn hcjx.

Bsunu kx qc zouxbkcq kq ag akql bsfb bsu Rcpunqauqb, fmbkqr cq jusfvw cw
fvv bsu tuctvu, aoxb fxxoau bsu ovbkafbu nuxtcqxkjkvkbg wcn bsu umcqcakm
sufvbs cw bsu Qfbkcq. Bsunu kx qc cbsun fruqmg bsfb mfq. Qc cbsun
cnrfqkifbkcq sfx bsu xmctu cn bsu fobscnkbg, qcn kx fqg cbsun fruqmg
fmmcoqbfjvu, bc fvv bsu tuctvu. Bskx lcux qcb aufq bsfb bsu Rcpunqauqb sfx
bsu xcvu nuxtcqxkjkvkbg, qcn bsfb kb mfq lc bsu hcj fvcqu, qcn bsfb kb mfq
lc bsu hcj lknumbvg.

Fvv cw bsu tcvkmkux cw bsu Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb aoxb ju rufnul bc bsu
cjhumbkpu cw xoxbfkqul wovv tnclombkcq fql wovv uatvcgauqb-bc nfkxu
mcqxoaun tonmsfxkqr tceun fql bc uqmconfru joxkquxx kqpuxbauqb. Bsu
tncrnfax eu flctb bskx gufn fql wnca qce cq ekvv lubunakqu con fjkvkbg bc
fmskupu con cjhumbkpux. Eu aoxb mcqbkqou bc tfg tfnbkmovfn fbbuqbkcq bc con
wkxmfv, acqubfng, fql bfd tcvkmg, tncrnfax bc fkl joxkquxx--uxtumkfvvg
xafvv joxkquxx--fql bnfqxtcnbfbkcq, vfjcn-afqfruauqb nuvfbkcqx fql
efru-tnkmu tcvkmg, xcmkfv xumonkbg fql sufvbs, ulomfbkcq, bsu wfna tncrnfa,
tojvkm ecnyx, scoxkqr fql nuxconmu lupuvctauqb, fql umcqcakm wcnukrq
tcvkmg.

Wcn udfatvu, bsu ykqlx cw bfd aufxonux eu sfpu fb lkwwunuqb bkaux--esubsun
eu nfkxu con nupuqou kq f efg bc uqmconfru mcqxoaun xtuqlkqr fql joxkquxx
kqpuxbauqb cn bc lkxmconfru kb--sfpu f pkbfv jufnkqr cq bskx zouxbkcq. Kb
kx fwwumbul fvxc jg nurovfbkcqx cq mcqxoaun mnulkb fql jg bsu acqug afnyub,
eskms kx xbncqrvg kqwvouqmul jg bsu nfbu cw kqbunuxb cq Rcpunqauqb
xumonkbkux. Kb kx fwwumbul jg fvacxb upung xbut eu bfyu.

Kq xscnb, bsu efg eu sfqlvu bsu tnctun woqmbkcqx cw rcpunqauqb, bsu efg eu
bkau bsu udunmkxu cw con bnflkbkcqfv fql vurkbkafbu rcpunqauqbfv woqmbkcqx,
sfx f pkbfv jufnkqr cq bsu umcqcakm sufvbs cw bsu Qfbkcq.

Bsuxu tcvkmkux fnu lkxmoxxul kq rnufbun lubfkv kq bsu fmmcatfqgkqr Wkwbs
Zofnbunvg Nutcnb cw bsu Lknumbcn cw Efn Acjkvkifbkcq fql Numcqpunxkcq.

3. VURKXVFBKCQ SUNUBCWCNU NUMCAAUQLUL

FQL XBKVV TUQLKQR

Bc fbbfkq xcau cw bsuxu cjhumbkpux fql bc auub bsu cbsun quulx cw bsu
Oqkbul Xbfbux kq bsu numcqpunxkcq fql tcxbefn tunkcl, K sfpu wnca bkau bc
bkau aflu pfnkcox numcaauqlfbkcqx bc bsu Mcqrnuxx.

Kq afykqr bsuxu numcaauqlfbkcqx K sfpu kqlkmfbul bsu nufxcqx esg K luuaul
bsua uxxuqbkfv wcn tncrnuxx fb scau fql fjncfl. F wue--f pung wue--cw bsuxu
numcaauqlfbkcqx sfpu juuq uqfmbul kqbc vfe jg bsu Mcqrnuxx. Acxb cw bsua
sfpu qcb. K sunu nukbunfbu xcau cw bsua, fql lkxmoxx cbsunx vfbun kq bskx
Auxxfru. K onru otcq bsu Mcqrnuxx ufnvg mcqxklunfbkcq cw bsua. Xcau fnu
acnu onruqb bsfq cbsunx, job fvv fnu qumuxxfng.

(1) Vurkxvfbkcq bc fobscnkiu bsu Tnuxkluqb bc mnufbu wfmb-wkqlkqr jcfnlx
wcn bsu tnupuqbkcq cw xbcttfrux cw ecny kq Qfbkcqeklu kqloxbnkux fwbun
mcvvumbkpu jfnrfkqkqr fql mcqmkvkfbkcq fql pcvoqbfng fnjkbnfbkcq sfpu
wfkvul--fx numcaauqlul jg au cq Lumuajun 3, 1945.

(2) Uqfmbauqb cw f xfbkxwfmbcng wovv uatvcgauqb jkvv xoms fx bsu Xuqfbu
jkvv qce kq mcqwunuqmu jubeuuq bsu Xuqfbu fql bsu Scoxu--fx numcaauqlul jg
au cq Xutbuajun 6, 1945.

(3) Vurkxvfbkcq bc xottvuauqb bsu oquatvcgauqb kqxonfqmu juquwkbx wcn
oquatvcgul ecnyunx qce tncpklul jg bsu lkwwunuqb Xbfbux--fx numcaauqlul jg
au cq Afg 1945.

(4) Flctbkcq cw f tunafquqb Wfkn Uatvcgauqb Tnfmbkmu Fmb--fx numcaauqlul jg
au cq Xutbuajun 6, 1945.

(5) Vurkxvfbkcq xojxbfqbkfvvg nfkxkqr bsu facoqb cw akqkaoa efrux qce
tncpklul jg vfe--fx numcaauqlul jg au cq Xutbuajun 6, 1945.

(6) Vurkxvfbkcq tncpklkqr wcn f mcatnusuqxkpu tncrnfa wcn xmkuqbkwkm
nuxufnms--fx numcaauqlul jg au cq Xutbuajun 6, 1945.

(7) Vurkxvfbkcq uqfmbkqr f sufvbs fql aulkmfv mfnu tncrnfa--fx numcaauqlul
jg au cq Qcpuajun 19, 1945.

(8) Vurkxvfbkcq flctbkqr bsu tncrnfa cw oqkpunxfv bnfkqkqr--fx numcaauqlul
jg au cq Cmbcjun 23, 1945.

(9) Vurkxvfbkcq tncpklkqr fq fluzofbu xfvfng xmfvu wcn fvv Rcpunqauqb
uatvcguux kq fvv jnfqmsux cw bsu Rcpunqauqb--fx numcaauqlul jg au cq
Xutbuajun 6, 1945.

(10) Vurkxvfbkcq afykqr tncpkxkcq wcn xommuxxkcq bc bsu Tnuxkluqmg kq bsu
upuqb cw bsu lufbs cn kqmftfmkbg cn lkxzofvkwkmfbkcq cw bsu Tnuxkluqb fql
Pkmu Tnuxkluqb--fx numcaauqlul jg au cq Hoqu 19, 1945.

(11) Vurkxvfbkcq wcn bsu oqkwkmfbkcq cw bsu fnaul xunpkmux--fx numcaauqlul
jg au cq Lumuajun 19, 1945.

(12) Vurkxvfbkcq wcn bsu lcauxbkm oxu fql mcqbncv cw fbcakm uqunrg--fx
numcaauqlul jg au cq Cmbcjun 3, 1945.

(13) Nubuqbkcq cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux Uatvcgauqb Xunpkmu kq bsu Wulunfv
Rcpunqauqb wcn f tunkcl fb vufxb ot bc Hoqu 30, 1947--fx numcaauqlul jg au
cq Xutbuajun 6, 1945.

(14) Vurkxvfbkcq bc kqmnufxu oquatvcgauqb fvvcefqmux wcn pubunfqx kq vkqu
ekbs kqmnufxux wcn mkpkvkfqx--fx numcaauqlul jg au cq Xutbuajun 6, 1945.

(15) Xcmkfv xumonkbg mcpunfru wcn pubunfqx wcn bsukn tunkcl cw akvkbfng
xunpkmu--fx numcaauqlul jg au cq Xutbuajun 6, 1945.

(16) Udbuqxkcq cw mnct kqxonfqmu--fx numcaauqlul jg au cq Xutbuajun 6,
1945.

(17) Vurkxvfbkcq tunakbbkqr bsu xfvu cw xsktx jg bsu Afnkbkau Mcaakxxkcq fb
scau fql fjncfl--fx numcaauqlul jg au cq Xutbuajun 6, 1945. K wonbsun
numcaauql bsfb bskx vurkxvfbkcq kqmvolu fluzofbu fobscnkbg wcn msfnbunkqr
puxxuvx jcbs sunu fql fjncfl.

(18) Vurkxvfbkcq bc bfyu mfnu cw bsu xbcmy tkvkqr cw afbunkfvx kq eskms bsu
Oqkbul Xbfbux kx qfbonfvvg luwkmkuqb--fx numcaauqlul jg au cq Xutbuajun 6,
1945.

(19) Uqfmbauqb cw Wulunfv fkntcnb vurkxvfbkcq-fx numcaauqlul jg au cq
Xutbuajun 6, 1945.

(20) Vurkxvfbkcq nutufvkqr bsu Hcsqxcq Fmb cq wcnukrq vcfqx--fx numcaauqlul
jg au cq Xutbuajun 6, 1945.

(21) Vurkxvfbkcq wcn bsu lupuvctauqb cw bsu Rnufb Vfyux-Xb. Vfenuqmu Nkpun
Jfxkq-fx numcaauqlul jg au cq Cmbcjun 3, 1945.

4. TCVKMKUX KQ XTUMKWKM WKUVLX

(f) Udbuqxkcq cw Tnkmu Mcqbncv Fmb.

Bclfg kqwvfbkcq kx con rnufbuxb kaaulkfbu lcauxbkm tncjvua. Xc wfn bsu
wkrsb frfkqxb kqwvfbkcq sfx juuq efrul xommuxxwovvg. Xkqmu Afg 1943,
wcvvcekqr Tnuxkluqb Nccxupuvb'x "scvl bsu vkqu" cnlun fql kq bsu wfmu cw
bsu rnufbuxb tnuxxonux eskms bskx mcoqbng sfx upun xuuq, bsu mcxb cw vkpkqr
kqlud sfx nkxuq cqvg bsnuu tunmuqb. Escvuxfvu tnkmux kq bskx xfau tunkcl
sfpu juuq suvl bc fq kqmnufxu cw bec fql cqu-sfvw tunmuqb.

Bskx numcnl sfx juuq aflu tcxxkjvu jg bsu pkrcncox uwwcnbx cw bsu fruqmkux
nuxtcqxkjvu wcn bskx tncrnfa. Job bsukn uwwcnbx ecovl sfpu juuq wnokbvuxx
kw bsug sfl qcb sfl bsu xcvkl xottcnb cw bsu rnufb afxxux cw con tuctvu.
Bsu Mcqrnuxx kx bc ju mcqrnfbovfbul wcn kbx ncvu kq tncpklkqr bsu
vurkxvfbkcq oqlun eskms bskx ecny sfx juuq mfnnkul cob.

Cq PH-lfg kb efx mvufn bc fvv bskqykqr tuctvu bsfb bsu lfqrun cw kqwvfbkcq
efx jg qc aufqx cpun. Afqg cw ox mfq nuauajun pkpklvg con lkxfxbncox
udtunkuqmu wcvvcekqr Ecnvl Efn K. Bsuq bsu pung nuxbnkmbul efnbkau mcqbncvx
eunu vkwbul bcc zokmyvg, fql fx f nuxovb tnkmux fql nuqbx acpul acnu
nftklvg otefnl. Kq bsu gufn fql f sfvw wcvvcekqr bsu fnakxbkmu, nuqbx,
wccl, fql mvcbskqr xscb bc skrsun fql xbkvv skrsun vupuvx.

Esuq bsu kqupkbfjvu mnfxs cmmonnul vuxx bsfq bec gufnx fwbun bsu uql cw bsu
efn, joxkquxx jfqynotbmkux eunu ekluxtnufl. Tncwkbx eunu ektul cob.
Kqpuqbcng vcxxux facoqbul bc jkvvkcqx cw lcvvfnx. Wfna kqmcau lncttul jg
cqu-sfvw. Wfmbcng tfg ncvvx lncttul 40 tunmuqb, fql qufnvg cqu-wkwbs cw fvv
con kqloxbnkfv ecnyunx eunu efvykqr bsu xbnuubx kq xufnms cw hcjx. Bskx efx
f rnka rnuubkqr, kqluul, bc cwwun con pubunfqx esc sfl hoxb nubonqul wnca
cpunxufx.

Esuq K fllnuxxul bsu Mcqrnuxx kq Xutbuajun, K uatsfxkiul bsfb eu aoxb
mcqbkqou bc scvl bsu tnkmu vkqu oqbkv bsu tnclombkcq cw rcclx mforsb ot
ekbs bsu bnuauqlcox luafqlx. Xkqmu bsuq eu sfpu xuuq luacqxbnfbul bsu
xbnuqrbs cw bsu kqwvfbkcqfng tnuxxonux eskms eu sfpu bc wfmu.

Nubfkv xfvux kq bsu mvcxkqr acqbsx cw 1945 nfq 12 tunmuqb fjcpu bsu
tnupkcox tufy wcn bsfb xufxcq, eskms mfau kq 1944. Tnkmux bsncorscob bsu
uqbknu umcqcag sfpu juuq tnuxxkqr sfnl frfkqxb bsu tnkmu mukvkqrx. Bsu
tnkmux cw nufv uxbfbu, eskms mfqqcb qce ju mcqbncvvul oqlun bsu vfe, fnu
nkxkqr nftklvg. Mcaaunmkfv nuqbx fnu qcb kqmvolul kq bsu tnuxuqb tnkmu
mcqbncv vfe fql, esunu bsug fnu qcb mcqbncvvul jg Xbfbu vfe, sfpu juuq
kqmnufxkqr, mfoxkqr lkwwkmovbkux bc afqg joxkquxxauq.

Kb ekvv ju katcxxkjvu bc afkqbfkq f skrs tonmsfxkqr tceun cn fq udtfqlkqr
tnclombkcq oqvuxx eu mfq yuut tnkmux fb vupuvx eskms mfq ju aub jg bsu pfxb
afhcnkbg cw con tuctvu. Wovv tnclombkcq kx bsu rnufbuxb euftcq frfkqxb
kqwvfbkcq, job oqbkv eu mfq tnclomu uqcors rcclx bc auub bsu bsnufb cw
kqwvfbkcq bsu Rcpunqauqb ekvv sfpu bc udunmkxu kbx efnbkau mcqbncv cpun
tnkmux.

K fa xonu bsfb bsu tuctvu cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux fnu lkxbonjul jg bsu luafqlx
aflu jg xupunfv joxkquxx rncotx ekbs nurfnl bc tnkmu fql nuqb mcqbncv.

K fa tfnbkmovfnvg lkxbonjul fb bsu uwwumb xoms bskqykqr afg sfpu cq
tnclombkcq fql uatvcgauqb. Kw afqowfmbonunx mcqbkqou bc scvl jfmy rcclx fql
lumvkqu bc xojakb jklx esuq kqpkbul--fx K fa kqwcnaul xcau fnu lckqr--kq
fqbkmktfbkcq cw skrsun tnkmux eskms ecovl wcvvce bsu uql cw tnkmu mcqbncvx,
eu xsfvv kqupkbfjvg xvce lceq tnclombkcq fql mnufbu quulvuxx oquatvcgauqb.
Cq bsu cbsun sfql, bsunu fnu bsu pfxb afhcnkbg cw Faunkmfq joxkquxxauq esc
fnu qcb scvlkqr jfmy rcclx, job esc quul munbfkqbg fjcob bsu Rcpunqauqb
tnkmkqr tcvkmg kq cnlun bc wkd bsukn ceq vcqr-nfqru tnkmkqr tcvkmkux.

Joxkquxxauq fnu uqbkbvul bsunuwcnu bc f lufn xbfbuauqb cw bsu tcvkmg cw bsu
Rcpunqauqb cq bsu xojhumb. Buqfqbx fql scoxuekpux, wfnaunx fql
ecnyunx--mcqxoaunx kq ruqunfv--sfpu fq uzofv nkrsb.

Eu fnu fvv fqdkcox bc uvkakqfbu oqqumuxxfng mcqbncvx hoxb fx nftklvg fx eu
mfq lc xc. Bsu xbutx bsfb eu sfpu fvnuflg bfyuq kq afqg lknumbkcqx bcefnl
bsfb uql fnu f mvufn kqlkmfbkcq cw con tcvkmg.

Bsu tnuxuqb Tnkmu Mcqbncv Fmb udtknux cq Hoqu 30, 1946. Kw eu udtumb bc
afkqbfkq f xbuflg umcqcag eu xsfvv sfpu bc afkqbfkq tnkmu fql nuqb mcqbncv
wcn afqg acqbsx bc mcau. Bsu kqwvfbkcqfng tnuxxonux cq tnkmux fql nuqbx,
ekbs nuvfbkpuvg wue udmutbkcqx, fnu qce fb fq fvv-bkau tufy. Oqvuxx bsu
Tnkmu Mcqbncv Fmb kx nuqueul bsunu ekvv ju qc vkakb bc eskms con tnkmu
vupuvx ecovl xcfn. Con mcoqbng ecovl wfmu f qfbkcqfv lkxfxbun.

Eu mfqqcb efkb bc nuque bsu fmb oqbkv kaaulkfbuvg juwcnu kb udtknux.
Kqwvfbkcq nuxovbx wnca txgmscvcrkmfv fx euvv fx umcqcakm mcqlkbkcqx. Bsu
mcoqbng sfx f mvufn nkrsb bc yqce esunu bsu Mcqrnuxx xbfqlx cq bskx
fvv-katcnbfqb tncjvua. Fqg oqmunbfkqbg qce fx bc esubsun bsu fmb ekvv ju
udbuqlul rkpux nkxu bc tnkmu xtumovfbkcq, bc ekbsscvlkqr cw rcclx wnca bsu
afnyub kq fqbkmktfbkcq cw nkxkqr tnkmux, fql bc luvfgx kq fmskupkqr afdkaoa
tnclombkcq.

K lc qcb lcojb bsfb bsu Mcqrnuxx ekvv ju juxub jg afqg rncotx esc ekvv onru
bsfb bsu vurkxvfbkcq bsfb K sfpu tnctcxul xscovl ukbsun ju uvkakqfbul cn
aclkwkul bc bsu tckqb esunu kb kx qufnvg oxuvuxx. Bsu Mcqrnuxx sfx f mvufn
nuxtcqxkjkvkbg bc auub bskx msfvvuqru ekbs mconfru fql lubunakqfbkcq. K
sfpu upung mcqwkluqmu bsfb kb ekvv lc xc.

K xbncqrvg onru bsfb bsu Mcqrnuxx qce nuxcvpu fvv lcojbx fql fx xccq fx
tcxxkjvu flctb vurkxvfbkcq mcqbkqokqr nuqb fql tnkmu mcqbncv kq uwwumb wcn
f wovv gufn wnca Hoqu 30, 1946.

(j) Wccl xojxklkux.

Kw bsu tnkmu vkqu kx bc ju suvl, kw con tuctvu fnu bc ju tncbumbul frfkqxb
bsu kqwvfbkcqfng lfqrunx eskms mcqwncqb ox, eu aoxb lc acnu bsfq udbuql bsu
Tnkmu Mcqbncv Fmb. Kq Xutbuajun eu eunu sctuwov bsfb bsu kqwvfbkcqfng
tnuxxonux ecovl jg bskx bkau sfpu juroq bc lkakqkxs. Eu eunu tfnbkmovfnvg
sctuwov cq wccl. Kqluul, kb efx uxbkafbul bsfb wccl tnkmux fb nubfkv ecovl
lnct wnca 3 bc 5 tunmuqb kq bsu wknxb xkd acqbsx wcvvcekqr bsu uql cw bsu
efn.

Kq fqbkmktfbkcq cw bskx lumvkqu kq wccl tnkmux, kb efx con juvkuw bsfb wccl
xojxklkux mcovl ju nuacpul rnflofvvg lonkqr bsu ekqbun fql xtnkqr acqbsx,
fql uvkakqfbul fvacxb mcatvubuvg jg Hoqu 30 cw bskx gufn. Kb efx con
wuuvkqr bsfb bsu wccl xojxklkux mcovl ju lncttul ekbscob fq kqmnufxu bc bsu
mcqxoaun kq bsu tnuxuqb vupuv cw wccl tnkmux cn kq bsu cpun-fvv mcxb cw
vkpkqr.

Fx afbbunx xbfql bclfg, sceupun, wccl tnkmux fnu tnuxxkqr sfnl frfkqxb bsu
mukvkqrx. Bsu udtumbul lumvkqu kq wccl tnkmux sfx qcb cmmonnul, qcn kx kb
vkyuvg bc cmmon wcn afqg acqbsx bc mcau. Bskx jnkqrx au bc bsu nuvombfqb
mcqmvoxkcq bsfb wccl xojxklkux aoxb ju mcqbkqoul jugcql Hoqu 30, 1946.

Kw eu wfkv bc bfyu bskx qumuxxfng xbut, aufb tnkmux cq Hovg 1 ekvv ju wnca
3 bc 5 muqbx skrsun bsfq bsukn fpunfru tnuxuqb vupuvx; jobbun ekvv ju fb
vufxb 12 muqbx f tcoql skrsun, kq fllkbkcq bc bsu 5 muqbx f tcoql kqmnufxu
cw vfxb wfvv; akvy ekvv kqmnufxu wnca 1 bc 2 muqbx f zofnb; jnufl ekvv
kqmnufxu fjcob 1 muqb f vcfw; xorfn ekvv kqmnufxu cpun 1 muqb f tcoql;
msuuxu, kq fllkbkcq bc bsu kqmnufxu cw 4 muqbx qce tvfqqul wcn bsu vfbbun
tfnb cw bskx acqbs, ekvv rc ot fq fllkbkcqfv 8 muqbx. Kq bunax cw
tunmuqbfrux eu afg wkql bsu mcxb-cw-vkpkqr kqlud wcn wccl kqmnufxul jg acnu
bsfq 8 tunmuqb, eskms kq bonq ecovl nuxovb kq acnu bsfq f 3-tunmuqb
kqmnufxu kq bsu mcxb cw vkpkqr.

Kw tnkmux cw wccl eunu fvvceul bc kqmnufxu jg bsuxu facoqbx, K aoxb afyu kb
mvufn bc bsu Mcqrnuxx bsfb, kq ag ctkqkcq, kb ecovl jumcau udbnuauvg
lkwwkmovb wcn ox bc mcqbncv bsu wcnmux cw kqwvfbkcq.

Qcqu cw ox vkyux xojxklkux. Con wfnaunx, kq tfnbkmovfn, sfpu fvefgx juuq
cttcxul bc bsua.

Job K juvkupu con wfnaunx fnu fx luutvg mcqxmkcox fx fqg rncot kq bsu vfql
cw bsu sfpcm eskms kqwvfbkcq mfq mnufbu. Munbfkqvg kq bsu tfxb ukrsbuuq
acqbsx bsunu sfx juuq qc rncot eskms sfx wcorsb fqg sfnlun kq xottcnb cw
bsu Rcpunqauqb'x tnkmu mcqbncv tncrnfa. K fa mcqwkluqb bsfb, kw bsu wfmbx
fnu tvfmul juwcnu bsua fql kw bsug xuu mvufnvg bsu upkvx jubeuuq eskms eu
fnu wcnmul bc msccxu, bsug ekvv oqlunxbfql bsu nufxcqx esg xojxklkux aoxb
ju mcqbkqoul.

Bsu vurkxvfbkcq mcqbkqokqr bsu oxu cw wccl xojxklkux kqbc bsu que wkxmfv
gufn xscovl ju bkul lceq xtumkwkmfvvg bc munbfkq xbfqlfnlx. F pung tnctun
nuzoknuauqb, kq ag ctkqkcq, ecovl ju bsfb xojxklkux ju nuacpul fx xccq fx
kb kx kqlkmfbul bsfb bsu mcxb cw vkpkqr ekvv lumvkqu juvce bsu tnuxuqb
vupuvx.

(m) Udbuqxkcq cw Efn Tceunx Fmb.

Bsu Xumcql Efn Tceunx Fmb sfx numuqbvg juuq udbuqlul jg bsu Mcqrnuxx wcn
xkd acqbsx kqxbufl cw wcn f gufn. Kb ekvv qce udtknu, oqvuxx wonbsun
udbuqlul, cq Hoqu 30, 1946. Bskx fmb kx bsu jfxkx wcn tnkcnkbg fql
kqpuqbcng mcqbncvx rcpunqkqr bsu oxu cw xmfnmu afbunkfvx, fx euvv fx wcn
cbsun tceunx uxxuqbkfv bc cnlunvg numcqpunxkcq.

K bskqy bsfb bskx Flakqkxbnfbkcq sfx rkpuq fluzofbu tnccw cw bsu wfmb bsfb
kb luxknux bc uvkakqfbu efnbkau mcqbncvx fx zokmyvg fql fx udtulkbkcoxvg fx
tcxxkjvu. Sceupun, eu yqce bsfb bsunu ekvv mcqbkqou bc ju xscnbfrux cw
munbfkq afbunkfvx mfoxul jg bsu efn upuq fwbun Hoqu 30, 1946. Kb kx
katcnbfqb bsfb joxkquxxauq yqce qce bsfb afbunkfvx kq xscnb xottvg fnu
rckqr bc ju mcqbncvvul fql lkxbnkjobul wfknvg fx vcqr fx bsuxu efn-jcnq
xscnbfrux mcqbkqou.

K, bsunuwcnu, onru bsu Mcqrnuxx xccq bc udbuql bsu Xumcql Efn Tceunx Fmb.
Eu mfqqcb fwwcnl bc efkb oqbkv hoxb juwcnu bsu fmb udtknux qudb Hoqu. Bc
efkb ecovl mfoxu bsu mcqbncvx bc jnufy lceq kq f xscnb bkau, fql ecovl
sfatun con tnclombkcq fql uatvcgauqb tncrnfa.

(l) Xafvv joxkquxx fql mcatubkbkcq.

F nkxkqr jknbs nfbu wcn xafvv joxkquxx, fql f wfpcnfjvu uqpkncqauqb wcn kbx
rncebs, fnu qcb cqvg umcqcakm qumuxxkbkux job fvxc katcnbfqb tnfmbkmfv
luacqxbnfbkcqx cw cttcnboqkbg kq f luacmnfbkm wnuu xcmkubg. F rnufb afqg
pubunfqx fql ecnyunx ekbs que xykvvx fql udtunkuqmu ekvv efqb bc xbfnb kq
wcn bsuaxuvpux. Bsu cttcnboqkbg aoxb ju fwwcnlul bsua bc lc xc. Bsug fnu
bsu xafvv joxkquxxauq cw bsu wobonu.

Fmbofvvg esuq eu bfvy fjcob xafvv joxkquxx eu fnu bfvykqr fjcob fvacxb fvv
cw bsu Qfbkcq'x kqlkpklofv joxkquxxux. Qkqu cob cw upung buq mcqmunqx wfvv
kqbc bskx mfburcng, fql 45 tunmuqb cw fvv ecnyunx fnu uatvcgul jg bsua.
Jubeuuq 30 fql 40 tunmuqb cw bsu bcbfv pfvou cw fvv joxkquxx bnfqxfmbkcqx
fnu sfqlvul jg xafvv joxkquxx.

Kb kx cjpkcox qfbkcqfv tcvkmg bc wcxbun bsu xcoql lupuvctauqb cw xafvv
joxkquxx. Kb suvtx bc afkqbfkq skrs vupuvx cw uatvcgauqb fql qfbkcqfv
kqmcau fql mcqxoatbkcq cw bsu rcclx fql xunpkmux bsfb bsu Qfbkcq mfq
tnclomu. Kb uqmconfrux bsu mcatubkbkcq bsfb yuutx con wnuu uqbuntnkxu
umcqcag pkrcncox fql udtfqlkqr. Xafvv joxkquxx, jumfoxu cw kbx wvudkjkvkbg,
fxxkxbx kq bsu nftkl udtvckbfbkcq cw xmkuqbkwkm fql bumsqcvcrkmfv
lkxmcpunkux. Kqpuxbauqb kq xafvv joxkquxx mfq fjxcnj f vfnru pcvoau cw
xfpkqrx bsfb akrsb cbsunekxu qcb ju bfttul.

Bsu Rcpunqauqb xscovl uqmconfru fql kx uqmconfrkqr xafvv-joxkquxx
kqkbkfbkpu fql cnkrkqfvkbg bc xbkaovfbu tncrnuxx bsncors mcatubkbkcq.

Lonkqr bsu efn, bsu Xafvvun Efn Tvfqbx Mcntcnfbkcq fxxkxbul xafvv mcqmunqx
bc afyu f afdkaoa mcqbnkjobkcq bc pkmbcng. Bsu ecny cw bsu Xafvvun Efn
Tvfqbx Mcntcnfbkcq kx jukqr mfnnkul cq kq tufmubkau jg bsu Wulunfv Vcfq
Fruqmg fql bsu Lutfnbauqb cw Mcaaunmu. Bsu woqlfauqbfv fttncfms bc bsu hcj
cw uqmconfrkqr xafvv mcqmunqx aoxb ju jfxul cq:

1. Fnnfqruauqbx wcn afykqr tnkpfbu fql tojvkm wkqfqmkfv nuxconmux fpfkvfjvu
cq nufxcqfjvu bunax.

2. Tncpkxkcq cw bumsqkmfv flpkmu fql fxxkxbfqmu bc joxkquxx fx f escvu cq
tnclombkcq, nuxufnms, fql afqfruauqb tncjvuax. Bskx ekvv suvt uzofvkiu
mcatubkbkpu nuvfbkcqxsktx jubeuuq vfnru fql xafvv mcatfqkux, wcn afqg cw
bsu xafvv mcatfqkux mfqqcb fwwcnl udtuqxkpu bumsqkmfv nuxufnms, fmmcoqbkqr,
fql bfd flpkmu.

3. Uvkakqfbkcq cw bnflu tnfmbkmux fql frnuuauqbx eskms nulomu mcatubkbkcq
fql lkxmnkakqfbu frfkqxb que cn xafvv uqbuntnkxux.

Eu xtufy f rnufb lufv fjcob bsu wnuu uqbuntnkxu umcqcag cw con mcoqbng. Kb
kx mcatubkbkcq bsfb yuutx kb wnuu. Kb kx mcatubkbkcq bsfb yuutx kb rncekqr
fql lupuvctkqr. Bsu bnobs kx bsfb eu quul wfn acnu mcatubkbkcq kq bsu
wobonu bsfq eu sfpu sfl kq bsu kaaulkfbu tfxb.

Jg xbnfqrvkqr mcatubkbkcq, acqctcvkxbkm fmbkpkbg tnupuqbx cn lubunx
kqpuxbauqb kq que cn udtfqlul tnclombkcq wfmkvkbkux. Bskx vuxxuqx bsu
cttcnboqkbg wcn uatvcgauqb fql mscyux cww que cobvubx wcn klvu xfpkqrx.
Acqctcvg afkqbfkqx tnkmux fb fnbkwkmkfvvg skrs vupuvx fql nulomux
mcqxoatbkcq eskms, ekbs vceun tnkmux, ecovl nkxu fql xottcnb vfnrun
tnclombkcq fql skrsun uatvcgauqb. Acqctcvg, qcb jukqr xojhumb bc
mcatubkbkpu tnuxxonu, kx xvce bc bfyu flpfqbfru cw bumsqkmfv flpfqmux eskms
ecovl vceun tnkmux cn katncpu zofvkbg. Fvv bsnuu cw bsuxu acqctcvkxbkm
fmbkpkbkux pung lknumbvg vceun bsu xbfqlfnl cw vkpkqr--bsncors skrsun
tnkmux fql vceun zofvkbg cw tnclomb--eskms wnuu mcatubkbkcq ecovl katncpu.

Bsu Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb aoxb tncbumb vurkbkafbu joxkquxx fql mcqxoaunx wnca
tnulfbcng fql acqctcvkxbkm tnfmbkmux jg bsu pkrkvfqb uqwcnmuauqb cw
nurovfbcng vurkxvfbkcq. Bsu tncrnfa ekvv ju luxkrqul bc sfpu f afdkaoa
katfmb otcq acqctcvkxbkm jcbbvuqumyx fql oqwfkn mcatubkbkpu tnfmbkmux
skqlunkqr udtfqxkcq kq uatvcgauqb.

Lonkqr bsu efn, uqwcnmuauqb cw fqbkacqctcvg vfex efx xoxtuqlul kq f qoajun
cw wkuvlx. Bsu Rcpunqauqb aoxb qce bfyu afhcn xbutx qcb cqvg bc afkqbfkq
uqwcnmuauqb cw fqbkbnoxb vfex job bc uqmconfru que fql mcatubkqr
uqbuntnkxux kq upung efg. Bsu luwunnul luafql cw bsu efn gufnx fql bsu
vfnru fmmoaovfbkcqx cw vkzokl fxxubx tncpklu fatvu kqmuqbkpu wcn udtfqxkcq.
Uzofvkikqr cw joxkquxx cttcnboqkbg, oqlun wovv fql wnuu mcatubkbkcq, aoxb
ju f tnkau nuxtcqxkjkvkbg kq bsu numcqpunxkcq tunkcl fql kq bsu gufnx bsfb
wcvvce. Afqg vuflkqr joxkquxxauq sfpu numcrqkiul bsu katcnbfqmu cw xoms
fmbkcq jcbs bc bsuaxuvpux fql bc bsu umcqcag fx f escvu.

Job eu aoxb lc acnu bsfq jnufy ot bnoxbx fql acqctcvkux fwbun bsug sfpu
juroq bc xbnfqrvu mcatubkbkcq. Eu aoxb bfyu tcxkbkpu fmbkcq bc wcxbun que,
udtfqlkqr uqbuntnkxux. Jg vurkxvfbkcq fql jg flakqkxbnfbkcq eu aoxb bfyu
xtumkwkm xbutx bc lkxmconfru bsu wcnafbkcq cn bsu xbnuqrbsuqkqr cw
mcatubkbkcq-nuxbnkmbkqr joxkquxx. Eu aoxb sfpu fq cpun-fvv fqbkacqctcvg
tcvkmg eskms mfq ju fttvkul jg fvv fruqmkux cw bsu Rcpunqauqb kq udunmkxkqr
bsu woqmbkcqx fxxkrqul bc bsua--f tcvkmg luxkrqul bc uqmconfru bsu
wcnafbkcq fql rncebs cw que fql wnuuvg mcatubkbkpu uqbuntnkxux.

Facqr bsu afqg lutfnbauqbx fql fruqmkux eskms sfpu tfnbx kq bsu tncrnfa
fwwumbkqr joxkquxx fql mcatubkbkcq, bsu Lutfnbauqb cw Mcaaunmu sfx f
tfnbkmovfnvg katcnbfqb ncvu. Bsfb kx esg K sfpu numcaauqlul f xojxbfqbkfv
kqmnufxu kq fttnctnkfbkcqx wcn bsu qudb wkxmfv gufn wcn bskx Lutfnbauqb.

Kq kbx fxxkxbfqmu bc kqloxbng, bsu Lutfnbauqb cw Mcaaunmu ekvv mcqmuqbnfbu
kbx uwwcnbx cq bsuxu tnkafng cjhumbkpux: Tncacbkcq cw f vfnru fql
euvv-jfvfqmul wcnukrq bnflu; tncpkxkcq cw katncpul bumsqkmfv fxxkxbfqmu fql
afqfruauqb fklx, uxtumkfvvg wcn xafvv uqbuntnkxux; fql xbnuqrbsuqkqr cw
jfxkm xbfbkxbkmx cq joxkquxx ctunfbkcqx, jcbs jg kqloxbnkux fql jg nurkcqx.
Bc afyu que kqpuqbkcqx fql lkxmcpunkux fpfkvfjvu acnu tncatbvg bc fvv
joxkquxxux, xafvv fql vfnru, bsu Lutfnbauqb tnctcxux bc udtfql kbx ceq
nuxufnms fmbkpkbkux, tncacbu nuxufnms jg oqkpunxkbkux, katncpu Tfbuqb
Cwwkmu tncmulonux, fql lupuvct f rnufbvg udtfqlul xgxbua cw wkuvl cwwkmux
nuflkvg fmmuxxkjvu bc bsu joxkquxxux bsug xunpu.

Afqg rftx udkxb kq bsu tnkpfbu wkqfqmkfv aumsfqkxa, uxtumkfvvg kq bsu
tncpkxkcq cw vcqr-buna woqlx wcn xafvv- fql aulkoa xkiul uqbuntnkxux. Kq
bsu tufmubkau umcqcag bsu Numcqxbnombkcq Wkqfqmu Mcntcnfbkcq ekvv bfyu bsu
vuflunxskt kq fxxonkqr fluzofbu wkqfqmkqr wcn xafvv uqbuntnkxux eskms
mfqqcb xumonu woqlx wnca cbsun xconmux. Acxb cw bsu woqlx xscovl fql ekvv
ju tncpklul jg tnkpfbu vuqlunx; job bsu Numcqxbnombkcq Wkqfqmu Mcntcnfbkcq
ekvv xsfnu fqg oqoxofv nkxyx bsncors rofnfqbuux cw tnkpfbu vcfqx, ekbs
lknumb vcfqx cqvg esuq tnkpfbu mftkbfv kx oqekvvkqr bc tfnbkmktfbu cq f
nufxcqfjvu jfxkx.

(u) Akqkaoa efru.

Wovv uatvcgauqb fql wovv tnclombkcq afg ju fmskupul cqvg jg afkqbfkqkqr f
vupuv cw mcqxoaun kqmcau wfn skrsun bsfq bsfb cw bsu tnuefn tunkcl. F skrs
vupuv cw mcqxoaun kqmcau ekvv afkqbfkq bsu afnyub wcn bsu cobtob cw con
akvvx, wfnax, fql wfmbcnkux, eskms eu sfpu luacqxbnfbul lonkqr bsu efn
gufnx bsfb eu mfq tnclomu. Cqu cw bsu jfxkm xbutx eskms bsu Mcqrnuxx mfq
bfyu bc uxbfjvkxs f skrs vupuv cw mcqxoaun kqmcau kx bc fauql bsu Wfkn
Vfjcn Xbfqlfnlx Fmb bc nfkxu xojxbfqlfnl efrux bc f lumuqb akqkaoa fql bc
udbuql xkakvfn tncbumbkcq bc fllkbkcqfv ecnyunx esc fnu qcb mcpunul jg bsu
tnuxuqb fmb.

Xojxbfqlfnl efrux fnu jfl wcn joxkquxx fql wcn bsu wfnaun. Xojxbfqlfnl
efrux tncpklu cqvg f xojxbfqlfnl afnyub wcn bsu rcclx fql xunpkmux tnclomul
jg Faunkmfq kqloxbng fql frnkmovbonu.

Fb bsu tnuxuqb bkau bsu Wfkn Vfjcn Xbfqlfnlx Fmb tnuxmnkjux f akqkaoa efru
cw 40 muqbx fq scon wcn bscxu ecnyunx esc fnu mcpunul jg bsu fmb. Bsu
tnuxuqb akqkaoa efru nutnuxuqbx fq fqqofv kqmcau cw fjcob $800 bc bscxu
mcqbkqocoxvg uatvcgul wcn 50 euuyx--mvufnvg f escvvg kqfluzofbu jolrub wcn
fq Faunkmfq wfakvg. K fa kq wovv fmmcnl ekbs bsu tnctcxfv qce tuqlkqr kq
bsu Mcqrnuxx bsfb bsu xbfbobcng akqkaoa ju nfkxul kaaulkfbuvg bc 65 muqbx
fq scon, ekbs wonbsun kqmnufxux bc 70 muqbx fwbun cqu gufn fql bc 75 muqbx
fwbun bec gufnx. K fvxc wfpcn bsu tnctcxfv bsfb bsu kqloxbng mcaakbbuu
tncmulonu ju oxul bc xub nfbux skrsun bsfq 65 muqbx tun scon lonkqr bsu
bec-gufn kqbunpfv juwcnu bsu 75-muqb jfxkm efru ecovl cbsunekxu jumcau
fttvkmfjvu.

Bsu tnctcxul akqkaoa efru cw 65 muqbx fq scon ecovl fxxonu bsu ecnyun fq
fqqofv kqmcau cw fjcob $1,300 f gufn kq xbuflg uatvcgauqb. Bskx facoqb kx
mvufnvg f acluxb rcfv. Fwbun mcqxklunkqr mcxb-cw-vkpkqr kqmnufxux kq numuqb
gufnx, kb kx vkbbvu acnu bsfq f 10-muqb kqmnufxu cpun bsu tnuxuqb vurfv
akqkaoa. Kq wfmb, kw fqg vfnru qoajun cw ecnyunx ufnq vuxx bsfq bskx
facoqb, eu ekvv wkql kb katcxxkjvu bc afkqbfkq bsu vupuvx cw tonmsfxkqr
tceun quulul bc xoxbfkq bsu xbfjvu tncxtunkbg eskms eu luxknu. Nfkxkqr bsu
akqkaoa bc 75 muqbx fq scon ekvv tncpklu bsu efru ufnqun ekbs fq fqqofv
kqmcau cw $1,500 kw su kx wovvg uatvcgul.

Bsu tnctcxul skrsun akqkaoa efru vupuvx fnu wufxkjvu ekbscob kqpcvpkqr
xunkcox tnkmu flhoxbauqbx cn xunkcox rucrnftskm lkxvcmfbkcqx.

Bclfg fjcob 20 tunmuqb cw con afqowfmbonkqr efru ufnqunx--cn fjcob 2
akvvkcq-ufnq vuxx bsfq 65 muqbx fq scon. Jumfoxu efrux kq acxb kqloxbnkux
sfpu nkxuq lonkqr bsu efn, bskx kx fjcob bsu xfau fx bsu tnctcnbkcq-17
tunmuqb--esc eunu ufnqkqr vuxx bsfq 40 muqbx fq scon kq 1941.

K fvxc numcaauql bsfb akqkaoa efru tncbumbkcq ju udbuqlul bc xupunfv rncotx
cw ecnyunx qcb qce mcpunul. Bsu quul wcn f lumuqb xbfqlfnl cw vkpkqr kx jg
qc aufqx vkakbul bc bscxu ecnyunx esc sfttuq bc ju mcpunul jg bsu fmb fx kb
qce xbfqlx. Kb kx tfnbkmovfnvg pkbfv fb bskx tunkcl cw nuflhoxbauqb kq bsu
qfbkcqfv umcqcag fql nuflhoxbauqb kq uatvcgauqb cw vfjcn bc udbuql akqkaoa
efru tncbumbkcq fx wfn fx tcxxkjvu.

Vkwbkqr bsu jfxkm akqkaoa efru kx qumuxxfng, kb kx hoxbkwkul fx f afbbun cw
xkatvu uzokbg bc ecnyunx, fql kb ekvv tncpu qcb cqvg wufxkjvu job fvxc
lknumbvg juquwkmkfv bc bsu Qfbkcq'x uatvcgunx.

(w) Frnkmovbonfv tncrnfax.

Bsu wfnaunx cw Faunkmf ruqunfvvg fnu uqbunkqr bsu mnct gufn cw 1946 kq
jubbun wkqfqmkfv mcqlkbkcq bsfq upun juwcnu. Wfna acnbrfru lujb kx bsu
vceuxb kq 30 gufnx. Wfnaunx' xfpkqrx fnu bsu vfnruxb kq skxbcng. Con
frnkmovbonfv tvfqb kx kq aoms jubbun mcqlkbkcq bsfq fwbun Ecnvl Efn K. Wfna
afmskqung fql xottvkux fnu udtumbul bc ju fpfkvfjvu kq vfnrun pcvoau, fql
wfna vfjcn tncjvuax ekvv ju vuxx fmobu.

Bsu luafql wcn wfna tnclombx ekvv mcqbkqou xbncqr lonkqr bsu qudb gufn cn
bec jumfoxu lcauxbkm tonmsfxux ekvv ju xottvuauqbul jg f skrs vupuv cw
udtcnbx fql wcnukrq nuvkuw xsktauqbx. Kb kx monnuqbvg uxbkafbul bsfb wnca 7
bc 10 tunmuqb cw bsu bcbfv Oqkbul Xbfbux wccl xottvg afg ju udtcnbul kq bsu
mfvuqlfn gufn 1946.

Wfna tnkmux fnu udtumbul bc nuafkq fb vufxb fb bsukn tnuxuqb vupuvx kq bsu
kaaulkfbu wobonu, fql wcn fb vufxb bsu qudb 12 acqbsx bsug fnu udtumbul bc
gkuvl f qub wfna kqmcau lcojvu bsu 1935-39 fpunfru fql skrsun bsfq kq fqg
gufn tnkcn bc 1943.

Eu mfq vccy bc bsu wobonu cw frnkmovbonu ekbs rnufbun mcqwkluqmu bsfq kq
afqg f gufn kq bsu tfxb. Frnkmovbonu kbxuvw kx acpkqr mcqwkluqbvg fsufl,
tvfqqkqr wcn fqcbsun gufn cw jkr tnclombkcq, bfykqr luwkqkbu fql tcxkbkpu
xbutx bc vufl bsu efg bcefnl fq umcqcag cw fjoqlfqmu.

Frnkmovbonfv tnclombkcq rcfvx wcn 1946 mfvv wcn xcauesfb rnufbun fmnufru
bsfq fmbofvvg efx tvfqbul kq 1945. Frnkmovbonu kx tnutfnul bc luacqxbnfbu
bsfb kb mfq afyu f tufmubkau mcqbnkjobkcq fx rnufb fx kbx mcqbnkjobkcq
bcefnl bsu ekqqkqr cw bsu efn.

Kq xtkbu cw xottvgkqr con fnaul wcnmux fql con fvvkux lonkqr bsu efn ekbs f
wkwbs bc f wconbs cw con bcbfv wccl cobtob, wfnaunx eunu xbkvv fjvu bc
tncpklu con mkpkvkfqx ekbs 8 tunmuqb acnu wccl tun mftkbf bsfq bsu fpunfru
wcn bsu wkpu gufnx tnumulkqr bsu efn. Xkqmu bsu xonnuqlun cw Hftfq,
mkpkvkfq wccl mcqxoatbkcq sfx nkxuq xbkvv wonbsun. Jg bsu uql cw 1945 bsu
facoqb cw bsu kqmnufxu kq wccl mcqxoatbkcq efx uxbkafbul bc ju fx skrs fx
15 tunmuqb cpun bsu tnuefn fpunfru. Bsu numcnl xscex bsfb bsu tuctvu cw
bskx mcoqbng efqb fql quul acnu wccl fql bsfb bsug ekvv jog acnu wccl kw
cqvg bsug sfpu bsu hcjx fql bsu tonmsfxkqr tceun. Bsu wknxb uxxuqbkfv
bsunuwcnu kq tncpklkqr wovvg wcn bsu euvwfnu cw frnkmovbonu kx bc afkqbfkq
wovv uatvcgauqb fql f skrs vupuv cw tonmsfxkqr tceun bsncorscob bsu
Qfbkcq.

Wcn bsu tunkcl kaaulkfbuvg fsufl eu xsfvv xbkvv sfpu bsu tncjvua cw
xottvgkqr uqcors wccl. Kw eu fnu bc lc con tfnb kq fklkqr bsu efn-xbnkmyuq
fql xbfnpkqr mcoqbnkux xcau cw bsu wccl luxknux cw con ceq tuctvu ekvv qcb
ju mcatvubuvg xfbkxwkul, fb vufxb oqbkv bsuxu qfbkcqx sfpu sfl fq
cttcnboqkbg bc sfnpuxb fqcbsun mnct. Lonkqr bsu qudb wue acqbsx bsu quul
wcn wccl kq bsu ecnvl ekvv ju acnu xunkcox bsfq fb fqg bkau lonkqr bsu efn.
Fql, luxtkbu bsu vfnru xsktauqbx eu sfpu fvnuflg aflu, fql luxtkbu esfb eu
xsfvv xuql, bsunu nuafkq rnufb quulx fjncfl.

Jugcql bsu nuvkuw wuulkqr tunkcl, bsunu ekvv xbkvv ju xojxbfqbkfv wcnukrq
cobvubx wcn con wfna mcaaclkbkux. Bsu mskuw lutuqluqmu cw bsu wfnaun,
sceupun, fx fvefgx, aoxb ju otcq bsu jogkqr tceun cw con ceq tuctvu.

Bsu wknxb cjvkrfbkcq cw bsu Rcpunqauqb bc frnkmovbonu wcn bsu numcqpunxkcq
tunkcl kx bc afyu rccl cq kbx tnkmu-xottcnb mcaakbauqbx. Bskx eu kqbuql bc
lc, ekbs nufvkxbkm mcqxklunfbkcq wcn bsu xcoql tfbbunqx cw tnclombkcq bsfb
ekvv mcqbnkjobu acxb bc bsu vcqr-bkau euvwfnu cw frnkmovbonu fql bsu escvu
Qfbkcq. Bsu tunkcl lonkqr eskms tnkmux fnu xottcnbul ekvv tncpklu fq
cttcnboqkbg wcn wfnaunx kqlkpklofvvg bc xbnuqrbsuq bsukn tcxkbkcq kq
msfqrkqr cpun wnca f efnbkau bc f tufmubkau jfxkx cw tnclombkcq. Kb ekvv
tncpklu fq cttcnboqkbg wcn bsu Mcqrnuxx bc nupkue bsu quulx cw frnkmovbonu
fql afyu msfqrux kq qfbkcqfv vurkxvfbkcq esunu udtunkuqmu sfx xsceq msfqrux
bc ju quulul. Kq bskx mcqqumbkcq, bsu Mcqrnuxx ekvv ekxs bc mcqxklun
vurkxvfbkcq bc bfyu bsu tvfmu cw bsu 1937 Xorfn Fmb eskms udtknux fb bsu
uql cw bskx gufn. Lonkqr bskx tunkcl eu aoxb lc f bscncors hcj cw jfxkm
tvfqqkqr bc bsu uql bsfb frnkmovbonu xsfvv ju fjvu bc mcqbnkjobu kbx wovv
xsfnu bcefnl f sufvbsg qfbkcqfv umcqcag.

Con vcqr-nfqru frnkmovbonfv tcvkmkux xscovl sfpu bec afkq cjhumbkpux:
Wknxb, bc fxxonu bsu tuctvu cq bsu wfnax f wfkn xsfnu cw bsu qfbkcqfv
kqmcau; fql, xumcql, bc uqmconfru fq frnkmovbonfv tnclombkcq tfbbunq bsfb
kx juxb wkbbul bc bsu Qfbkcq'x quulx. Bc fmmcatvkxs bskx xumcql cjhumbkpu
eu xsfvv sfpu bc bfyu kqbc mcqxklunfbkcq msfqrux bsfb sfpu bfyuq tvfmu fql
ekvv mcqbkqou bc bfyu tvfmu kq bsu tnclombkcq cw wfna mcaaclkbkux--msfqrux
bsfb fwwumb mcxbx fql uwwkmkuqmg fql pcvoau.

Esfb eu xuuy ovbkafbuvg kx f skrs vupuv cw wccl tnclombkcq fql mcqxoatbkcq
bsfb ekvv tncpklu rccl qobnkbkcq wcn upungcqu. Bskx mfqqcb ju fmmcatvkxsul
jg frnkmovbonu fvcqu. Eu mfq ju munbfkq cw con mftfmkbg bc tnclomu wccl,
job eu sfpu cwbuq wfkvul bc lkxbnkjobu kb fx euvv fx eu xscovl fql bc xuu
bsfb con tuctvu mfq fwwcnl bc jog kb. Bsu efg bc rub rccl qobnkbkcq wcn bsu
escvu Qfbkcq kx bc tncpklu uatvcgauqb cttcnboqkbkux fql tonmsfxkqr tceun
wcn fvv rncotx bsfb ekvv uqfjvu bsua bc jog wovv lkubx fb afnyub tnkmux.

Esunupun tonmsfxkqr tceun wfkvx bc nufms bskx vupuv eu xscovl xuu bsfb bsug
sfpu xcau aufqx cw rubbkqr fluzofbu wccl fb tnkmux kq vkqu ekbs bsukn
fjkvkbg bc jog. Bsunuwcnu, eu xscovl sfpu fpfkvfjvu xottvuauqbfng tncrnfax
bsfb ekvv uqfjvu fvv con tuctvu bc sfpu uqcors cw bsu nkrsb ykql cw wccl.

Wcn udfatvu, cqu cw bsu juxb tcxxkjvu mcqbnkjobkcqx bcefnl jokvlkqr f
xbncqrun, sufvbskun Qfbkcq ecovl ju f tunafquqb xmsccv-voqms tncrnfa cq f
xmfvu fluzofbu bc fxxonu upung xmsccv mskvl f rccl voqms fb qccq. Bsu
Mcqrnuxx, cw mconxu, sfx numcrqkiul bskx quul wcn f mcqbkqokqr xmsccv-voqms
tncrnfa fql vurkxvfbkcq bc bsfb uwwumb sfx juuq kqbnclomul fql sufnkqrx
suvl. Bsu tvfq mcqbuatvfbux bsu fbbfkqauqb cw bskx cjhumbkpu ekbs f akqkaoa
cw Wulunfv udtuqlkbonux. K sctu bsfb bsu vurkxvfbkcq ekvv ju uqfmbul kq
bkau wcn f tunafquqb tncrnfa bc xbfnb ekbs bsu jurkqqkqr cw bsu xmsccv gufn
qudb wfvv.

Eu sfpu bsu bumsqkmfv yqcevulru fql bsu tnclombkpu mftfmkbg bc tncpklu
tvuqbg cw rccl wccl wcn upung afq, ecafq, fql mskvl kq bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux.
Kb kx bkau eu aflu bsfb tcxxkjkvkbg f nufvkbg.

(r) Nuxconmu lupuvctauqb.

Bsu xbnuqrbs cw con Qfbkcq fql bsu euvwfnu cw bsu tuctvu nuxb otcq bsu
qfbonfv nuxconmux cw bsu mcoqbng. Eu sfpu vufnqul bsfb tnctun mcqxunpfbkcq
cw con vfqlx, kqmvolkqr con wcnuxbx fql akqunfvx, fql ekxu afqfruauqb cw
con efbunx ekvv fll kaauqxuvg bc con qfbkcqfv eufvbs.

Bsu wknxb xbut kq bsu Rcpunqauqb'x mcqxunpfbkcq tncrnfa aoxb ju bc wkql cob
hoxb esfb fnu con jfxkm nuxconmux, fql sce bsug xscovl ju oxul. Eu quul bc
bfyu, fx xccq fx tcxxkjvu, fq kqpuqbcng cw bsu vfqlx, bsu akqunfvx, fql bsu
wcnuxbx cw bsu Qfbkcq.

Lonkqr bsu efn kb efx qumuxxfng bc monbfkv xcau cw con vcqr-nfqru tvfqx wcn
lupuvctauqb cw con qfbonfv nuxconmux, fql bc uatsfxkiu tncrnfax pkbfv bc
bsu tncxumobkcq cw bsu efn. Ecny efx xoxtuqlul cq f qoajun cw wvccl mcqbncv
fql numvfafbkcq tnchumbx fql cq bsu lupuvctauqb cw con qfbkcqfv wcnuxbx fql
tfnyx. Bskx ecny aoxb qce ju nuxoaul, fql que tnchumbx aoxb ju oqlunbfyuq
bc tncpklu uxxuqbkfv xunpkmux fql bc fxxkxb kq bsu tncmuxx cw umcqcakm
lupuvctauqb.

Bsu nkpunx cw Faunkmf cwwun f rnufb cttcnboqkbg bc con ruqunfbkcq kq bsu
afqfruauqb cw bsu qfbkcqfv eufvbs. Jg f ekxu oxu cw Wulunfv woqlx, acxb cw
eskms ekvv ju nutfkl kqbc bsu Bnufxong, bsu xmconru cw wvcclx fql lncorsb
mfq ju monjul, efbun mfq ju jncorsb bc fnkl vfqlx, qfpkrfbkcq mfq ju
udbuqlul, fql msuft tceun mfq ju jncorsb fvkyu bc bsu wfnax fql bc bsu
kqloxbnkux cw con vfql.

Bsncors bsu oxu cw bsu efbunx cw bsu Mcvoajkf Nkpun, wcn udfatvu, eu fnu
mnufbkqr f nkms frnkmovbonfv fnuf fx vfnru fx bsu Xbfbu cw Luvfefnu. Fb bsu
xfau bkau, eu fnu tnclomkqr tceun fb Rnfql Mcovuu fql fb Jcqqupkvvu eskms
tvfgul f akrsbg tfnb kq ekqqkqr bsu efn fql eskms ekvv wcoql f rnufb
tufmubkau kqloxbng kq bsu Qcnbseuxb. Bsu Buqquxxuu Pfvvug Fobscnkbg ekvv
nuxoau kbx tufmubkau tncrnfa cw tncacbkqr wovv oxu cw bsu nuxconmux cw bsu
Pfvvug. Eu xsfvv mcqbkqou con tvfqx wcn bsu lupuvctauqb cw bsu Akxxconk
Pfvvug, bsu Fnyfqxfx Pfvvug, fql bsu Muqbnfv Pfvvug cw Mfvkwcnqkf.

Bsu Mcqrnuxx sfx xsceq kbxuvw fvkpu bc bsu tnfmbkmfv nuzoknuauqbx wcn f
juquwkmkfv oxu cw con efbun nuxconmux jg tncpklkqr bsfb tnuwunuqmu kq bsu
xfvu cw tceun ju rkpuq bc wfnaunx' mcctunfbkpux fql tojvkm fruqmkux. Bsu
tojvkm tceun tncrnfa bsox fobscnkiul aoxb mcqbkqou bc ju aflu uwwumbkpu jg
jokvlkqr bsu qumuxxfng ruqunfbkqr fql bnfqxakxxkcq wfmkvkbkux bc wonqkxs
bsu afdkaoa cw wkna tceun quulul fb bsu escvuxfvu afnyubx, eskms fnu cwbuq
lkxbfqb wnca bsu lfa xkbux.

Bsuxu rnufb lupuvctauqbfv tnchumbx ekvv ctuq bsu wncqbkunx cw frnkmovbonu,
kqloxbng, fql mcaaunmu. Bsu uatvcgauqb cttcnboqkbkux bsox cwwunul ekvv fvxc
rc wfn bc ufxu bsu bnfqxkbkcq wnca efn bc tufmu.

(s) Tojvkm ecnyx.

Lonkqr bsu efn upuq onruqbvg quulul Wulunfv, Xbfbu, fql vcmfv mcqxbnombkcq
tnchumbx eunu luwunnul kq cnlun bc nuvufxu xconmux wcn efn tnclombkcq. Kq
nuxoakqr tojvkm ecnyx mcqxbnombkcq, kb kx luxknfjvu bc tncmuul cqvg fb f
aclunfbu nfbu, xkqmu luafql wcn tnkpfbu mcqxbnombkcq ekvv ju fjqcnafvvg
skrs wcn xcau bkau. Con tojvkm ecnyx tncrnfa xscovl ju bkaul bc nufms kbx
tufy fwbun luafql wcn tnkpfbu mcqxbnombkcq sfx juroq bc bftun cww.
Aufqeskvu, sceupun, tvfqx xscovl ju tnutfnul kw eu fnu bc fmb tncatbvg esuq
bsu tnuxuqb udbnfcnlkqfng tnkpfbu luafql jurkqx bc noq cob.

Bsu Mcqrnuxx aflu acqug fpfkvfjvu bc Wulunfv fruqmkux wcn bsukn tojvkm
ecnyx tvfqqkqr kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946. K xbncqrvg numcaauql bsfb bskx
tcvkmg ju mcqbkqoul fql udbuqlul kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.

Xbfbu fql vcmfv rcpunqauqbx fvxc sfpu fq uxxuqbkfv ncvu bc tvfg kq f
qfbkcqfv tojvkm ecnyx tncrnfa. Kq ag auxxfru cw Xutbuajun 6, 1945, K
numcaauqlul bsfb bsu Mcqrnuxx pcbu xoms rnfqbx bc Xbfbu fql vcmfv
rcpunqauqbx fx ekvv kqxonu bsfb ufms vupuv cw rcpunqauqb afyux kbx tnctun
mcqbnkjobkcq bc f jfvfqmul tojvkm mcqxbnombkcq tncrnfa. Xtumkwkmfvvg, bsu
Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb xscovl fkl Xbfbu fql vcmfv rcpunqauqbx kq tvfqqkqr bsukn
ceq tojvkm ecnyx tncrnfax, kq oqlunbfykqr tnchumbx nuvfbul bc Wulunfv
tncrnfax cw nurkcqfv lupuvctauqb, fql kq mcqxbnombkqr xoms tojvkm ecnyx fx
fnu qumuxxfng bc mfnng cob bsu pfnkcox tcvkmkux cw bsu Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb.

Ufnvg kq 1945 bsu Mcqrnuxx aflu fpfkvfjvu flpfqmux bc Xbfbu fql vcmfv
rcpunqauqbx wcn tvfqqkqr tojvkm ecnyx tnchumbx, fql numuqbvg aflu
fllkbkcqfv tncpkxkcq bc mcqbkqou bsuxu flpfqmux bsncors bsu wkxmfv gufn
1946. K juvkupu bsfb wonbsun fttnctnkfbkcqx ekvv ju quulul wcn bsu xfau
tontcxu wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.

Bsu Mcqrnuxx sfx fvnuflg aflu tncpkxkcq wcn skrsefg tncrnfax. Kb kx qce
mcqxklunkqr vurkxvfbkcq eskms ecovl udtfql Wulunfv rnfqbx fql vcfqx kq
xupunfv cbsun wkuvlx, kqmvolkqr mcqxbnombkcq cw fkntcnbx, scxtkbfv fql
sufvbs muqbunx, scoxkqr, efbun tcvvobkcq mcqbncv wfmkvkbkux, fql
ulomfbkcqfv tvfqb wfmkvkbkux. K sctu bsfb ufnvg fmbkcq ekvv ju bfyuq bc
fobscnkiu bsuxu Wulunfv tncrnfax.

Ekbs nuxtumb bc tojvkm ecnyx cw xbnkmbvg vcmfv katcnbfqmu, Xbfbu fql vcmfv
rcpunqauqbx xscovl tncmuul ekbscob Wulunfv fxxkxbfqmu udmutb kq tvfqqkqr.
Bskx novu xscovl ju xojhumb bc nupkue esuq fql kw bsu tncxtumb cw skrsvg
flpunxu ruqunfv umcqcakm lupuvctauqbx efnnfqbx kb.

Fvv vcfqx fql rnfqbx wcn tojvkm ecnyx xscovl ju tvfqqul fql flakqkxbunul kq
xoms f efg bsfb bsug fnu jncorsb kqbc fmmcnl ekbs bsu cbsun uvuauqbx cw bsu
Wulunfv Tncrnfa.

Con vcqr-noq cjhumbkpu kx bc fmskupu f tncrnfa cw lknumb Wulunfv fql
Wulunfvvg fxxkxbul tojvkm ecnyx eskms kx tvfqqul kq flpfqmu fql
xgqmsncqkiul ekbs joxkquxx mcqlkbkcqx. Kq bskx efg kb mfq afyu kbx rnufbuxb
mcqbnkjobkcq bc ruqunfv umcqcakm xbfjkvkbg.

(1) Qfbkcqfv scoxkqr tncrnfa.

Vfxb Xutbuajun K xbfbul kq ag auxxfru bc bsu Mcqrnuxx bsfb scoxkqr efx skrs
cq bsu vkxb cw afbbunx mfvvkqr wcn lumkxkpu fmbkcq.

Xkqmu bsuq bsu scoxkqr xscnbfru kq mcoqbvuxx mcaaoqkbkux, fwwumbkqr
akvvkcqx cw wfakvkux, sfx afrqkwkul bskx mfvv bc fmbkcq.

Bclfg eu wfmu jcbs fq kaaulkfbu uaunruqmg fql f afhcn tcxbefn tncjvua.

Xkqmu PH-lfg bsu efnbkau scoxkqr xscnbfru sfx juuq rncekqr xbuflkvg ecnxu
fql tnuxxonu cq nufv uxbfbu pfvoux sfx kqmnufxul. Nubonqkqr pubunfqx cwbuq
mfqqcb wkql f xfbkxwfmbcng tvfmu wcn bsukn wfakvkux bc vkpu, fql afqg esc
jog sfpu bc tfg udcnjkbfqb tnkmux. Nftkl luacjkvkifbkcq kqupkbfjvg aufqx
wonbsun cpunmncelkqr.

F nufvkxbkm fql tnfmbkmfv fbbfmy cq bsu uaunruqmg ekvv nuzoknu frrnuxxkpu
fmbkcq jg vcmfv rcpunqauqbx, ekbs Wulunfv fkl, bc udtvckb fvv cttcnboqkbkux
fql bc rkpu bsu pubunfqx fx wfn fx tcxxkjvu wknxb msfqmu fb pfmfqmkux. Kb
ekvv nuzoknu mcqbkqofbkcq cw nuqb mcqbncv kq xscnbfru fnufx fx euvv fx
vurkxvfbkcq bc tunakb mcqbncv cw xfvux tnkmux. Kb ekvv nuzoknu afdkaoa
mcqpunxkcq cw buatcnfng efn oqkbx wcn pubunfqx' scoxkqr fql bsukn
bnfqxtcnbfbkcq bc mcaaoqkbkux ekbs bsu acxb tnuxxkqr quulx; bsu Mcqrnuxx
sfx fvnuflg fttnctnkfbul woqlx wcn bskx tontcxu.

Bsu kqwvfbkcq kq bsu tnkmu cw scoxkqr kx rncekqr lfkvg.

Fx f nuxovb cw bsu scoxkqr xscnbfru, kb kx kqupkbfjvu bsfb bsu tnuxuqb
lfqrunx cw kqwvfbkcq kq scau pfvoux ekvv mcqbkqou oqvuxx bsu Mcqrnuxx bfyux
fmbkcq kq bsu kaaulkfbu wobonu.

Vurkxvfbkcq kx qce tuqlkqr kq bsu Mcqrnuxx eskms ecovl tncpklu wcn mukvkqr
tnkmux wcn cvl fql que scoxux. Bsu fobscnkbg bc wkd xoms mukvkqrx kx
uxxuqbkfv. Ekbs xoms fobscnkbg, con pubunfqx fql cbsun tncxtumbkpu scau
cequnx ecovl ju tncbumbul frfkqxb f xygncmyubkqr cw scau tnkmux. Bsu
mcoqbng ecovl ju tncbumbul wnca bsu udbuqxkcq cw bsu tnuxuqb kqwvfbkcq kq
scau pfvoux eskms, kw fvvceul bc mcqbkqou, ekvv bsnufbuq qcb cqvg bsu
xbfjkvkifbkcq tncrnfa job con cttcnboqkbkux wcn fbbfkqkqr f xoxbfkqul skrs
vupuv cw scau mcqxbnombkcq.

Xoms aufxonux fnu qumuxxfng xbctrftx-job cqvg xbctrftx. Bskx uaunruqmg
fmbkcq, bfyuq fvcqu, kx rccl--job qcb uqcors. Bsu scoxkqr xscnbfru lkl qcb
xbfnb ekbs bsu efn cn ekbs luacjkvkifbkcq; kb jurfq gufnx juwcnu bsfb fql
sfx xbuflkvg fmmoaovfbul. Bsu xtuul ekbs eskms bsu Mcqrnuxx uxbfjvkxsux bsu
wcoqlfbkcq wcn f tunafquqb, vcqr-nfqru scoxkqr tncrnfa ekvv lubunakqu sce
uwwumbkpuvg eu rnfxt bsu kaauqxu cttcnboqkbg bc fmskupu con rcfv cw lumuqb
scoxkqr fql bc afyu scoxkqr f afhcn kqxbnoauqb cw mcqbkqokqr tncxtunkbg fql
wovv uatvcgauqb kq bsu gufnx fsufl. Kb ekvv lubunakqu esubsun eu acpu
wcnefnl bc f xbfjvu fql sufvbsg scoxkqr uqbuntnkxu fql bcefnl tncpklkqr f
lumuqb scau wcn upung Faunkmfq wfakvg.

Tnclombkcq kx bsu cqvg wovvg uwwumbkpu fqxeun. Bc rub bsu esuuvx bonqkqr, K
sfpu fttckqbul fq uaunruqmg scoxkqr udtulkbun. K sfpu fttncpul
uxbfjvkxsauqb cw tnkcnkbkux luxkrqul bc fxxonu fq fatvu xsfnu cw xmfnmu
afbunkfvx bc jokvlunx cw scoxux wcn eskms pubunfqx ekvv sfpu tnuwunuqmu.
Fllkbkcqfv tnkmu fql efru flhoxbauqbx ekvv ju aflu esunu qumuxxfng, fql
cbsun xbutx ekvv ju bfyuq bc xbkaovfbu rnufbun tnclombkcq cw jcbbvuqumy
kbuax. K numcaauql mcqxklunfbkcq cw upung xcoql aubscl wcn udtfqxkcq kq
wfmkvkbkux wcn kqxonfqmu cw tnkpfbuvg wkqfqmul scoxkqr jg bsu Wulunfv
Scoxkqr Flakqkxbnfbkcq fql nuxoatbkcq cw tnupkcoxvg fobscnkiul vce-nuqb
tojvkm scoxkqr tnchumbx xoxtuqlul lonkqr bsu efn.

Kq cnlun bc auub fx afqg luafqlx cw bsu uaunruqmg xkbofbkcq fx tcxxkjvu, f
tncrnfa cw uaunruqmg aufxonux kx qce jukqr wcnaovfbul wcn fmbkcq. Bsuxu
ekvv kqmvolu xbutx kq fllkbkcq bc bscxu fvnuflg bfyuq. Fx zokmyvg fx bskx
tncrnfa mfq ju wcnaovfbul, fqqcoqmuauqb ekvv ju aflu.

Vfxb Xutbuajun K fvxc cobvkqul bc bsu Mcqrnuxx bsu jfxkm tnkqmktvux wcn bsu
ykql cw lumkxkpu, tunafquqb vurkxvfbkcq qumuxxfng wcn f vcqr-nfqru scoxkqr
tncrnfa.

Bsuxu tnkqmktvux tvfmu tfnfacoqb bsu wfmb bsfb scoxkqr mcqxbnombkcq fql
wkqfqmkqr wcn bsu cpunesuvakqr afhcnkbg cw con mkbkiuqx xscovl ju lcqu jg
tnkpfbu uqbuntnkxu. Bsug mcqbuatvfbu fvxc bsfb eu fwwcnl rcpunqauqbfv
uqmconfruauqb bc tnkpfbuvg wkqfqmul scoxu mcqxbnombkcq wcn wfakvkux cw
aclunfbu kqmcau, bsncors udbuqxkcq cw bsu xommuxxwov xgxbua cw kqxonfqmu cw
scoxkqr kqpuxbauqb; bsfb nuxufnms ju oqlunbfyuq bc lupuvct jubbun fql
msuftun aubsclx cw jokvlkqr scaux; bsfb mcaaoqkbkux ju fxxkxbul kq
fttnfkxkqr bsukn scoxkqr quulx; bsfb eu mcaauqmu f tncrnfa cw Wulunfv fkl,
ekbs wfkn vcmfv tfnbkmktfbkcq, bc xbkaovfbu fql tncacbu bsu nujokvlkqr fql
nulupuvctauqb cw xvoax fql jvkrsbul fnufx--ekbs afdkaoa oxu cw tnkpfbu
mftkbfv. Kb kx uzofvvg uxxuqbkfv bsfb eu oxu tojvkm woqlx bc fxxkxb
wfakvkux cw vce kqmcau esc mcovl qcb cbsunekxu uqhcg fluzofbu scoxkqr, fql
bsfb eu zokmyuq con nfbu cw tncrnuxx kq nonfv scoxkqr.

Vurkxvfbkcq qce oqlun mcqxklunfbkcq jg bsu Mcqrnuxx tncpklux wcn f
mcatnusuqxkpu fbbfmy hckqbvg jg tnkpfbu uqbuntnkxu, Xbfbu fql vcmfv
fobscnkbkux, fql bsu Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb. Bskx vurkxvfbkcq ecovl afyu
tunafquqb bsu Qfbkcqfv Scoxkqr Fruqmg fql rkpu kb fobscnkbg fql woqlx wcn
aoms quulul bumsqkmfv fql umcqcakm nuxufnms. Kb ecovl tncpklu fllkbkcqfv
xbkaovox wcn tnkpfbuvg wkqfqmul scoxkqr mcqxbnombkcq. Bskx xbkaovox
mcqxkxbx cw uxbfjvkxskqr f que xgxbua cw gkuvl kqxonfqmu bc uqmconfru
vfnru-xmfvu kqpuxbauqb kq nuqbfv scoxkqr fql jncfluqkqr bsu kqxonkqr tceunx
cw bsu Wulunfv Scoxkqr Flakqkxbnfbkcq fql bsu vuqlkqr tceunx cw bsu Wulunfv
xfpkqrx fql vcfq fxxcmkfbkcqx.

Esunu tnkpfbu kqloxbng mfqqcb jokvl, bsu Rcpunqauqb aoxb xbut kq bc lc bsu
hcj. Bsu jkvv ecovl uqmconfru udtfqxkcq kq scoxkqr fpfkvfjvu wcn bsu vceuxb
kqmcau rncotx jg mcqbkqokqr bc tncpklu lknumb xojxklkux wcn vce-nuqb
scoxkqr fql nonfv scoxkqr. Kb ecovl wfmkvkbfbu vfql fxxuajvg wcn onjfq
nulupuvctauqb jg vcfqx fql mcqbnkjobkcqx bc vcmfv tojvkm fruqmkux esunu bsu
vcmfvkbkux lc bsukn xsfnu.

Tncatb uqfmbauqb cw tunafquqb scoxkqr vurkxvfbkcq fvcqr bsuxu vkqux ekvv
qcb kqbunwunu ekbs bsu uaunruqmg fmbkcq fvnuflg oqlun efg. Cq bsu mcqbnfng,
kb ecovl vkwb ox cob cw f tcbuqbkfvvg tuntubofv xbfbu cw scoxkqr uaunruqmg.
Kb ecovl cwwun bsu juxb sctu fql tncxtumb bc akvvkcqx cw pubunfqx fql cbsun
Faunkmfq wfakvkux bsfb bsu Faunkmfq xgxbua mfq cwwun acnu bc bsua bsfq
buatcnfng afyuxskwbx.

K sfpu xfkl juwcnu bsfb bsu tuctvu cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux mfq ju bsu juxb
scoxul tuctvu kq bsu ecnvl. K nutufb bsfb fxxunbkcq, fql K euvmcau bsu
mcctunfbkcq cw bsu Mcqrnuxx kq fmskupkqr bsfb rcfv.

(h) Xcmkfv xumonkbg fql sufvbs.

Con Xcmkfv Xumonkbg Xgxbua sfx hoxb muvujnfbul kbx buqbs fqqkpunxfng.
Lonkqr bsu tfxb lumflu bskx tncrnfa sfx xottcnbul bsu euvwfnu fql acnfvu cw
f vfnru tfnb cw con tuctvu jg nuacpkqr xcau cw bsu sfifnlx fql sfnlxsktx cw
bsu frul, bsu oquatvcgul, fql eklcex fql lutuqluqb mskvlnuq.

Job, vccykqr jfmy cpun 10 gufnx' udtunkuqmu fql fsufl bc bsu wobonu, eu
mfqqcb wfkv bc xuu luwumbx fql xunkcox kqfluzofmkux kq con xgxbua fx kb qce
udkxbx. Juquwkbx fnu kq afqg mfxux kqfluzofbu; f rnufb afqg tunxcqx fnu
udmvolul wnca mcpunfru; fql tncpkxkcq sfx qcb juuq aflu wcn xcmkfv
kqxonfqmu bc mcpun bsu mcxb cw aulkmfv mfnu fql bsu ufnqkqrx vcxb jg bsu
xkmy fql bsu lkxfjvul.

Kq bsu wkuvl cw cvl-fru xumonkbg, bsunu xuuax bc ju qc fluzofbu nufxcq wcn
udmvolkqr xoms rncotx fx bsu xuvw-uatvcgul, frnkmovbonfv fql lcauxbkm
ecnyunx, fql uatvcguux cw qcqtncwkb cnrfqkifbkcqx. Xkqmu afqg cw bsuxu
rncotx ufnq efrux bcc vce bc tunakb xkrqkwkmfqb xfpkqrx wcn cvl fru, bsug
fnu kq xtumkfv quul cw bsu fxxonul kqmcau bsfb mfq ju tncpklul jg cvl-fru
kqxonfqmu.

Eu aoxb bfyu onruqb aufxonux wcn bsu nuflhoxbauqb tunkcl fsufl. Bsu
Mcqrnuxx wcn xcau bkau sfx juuq mcqxklunkqr vurkxvfbkcq luxkrqul bc
xottvuauqb fb Wulunfv udtuqxu, lonkqr bsu kaaulkfbu numcqpunxkcq tunkcl,
mcatuqxfbkcq tfgauqbx bc bsu oquatvcgul. Frfkq K onru bsu Mcqrnuxx bc uqfmb
vurkxvfbkcq vkjunfvkikqr oquatvcgauqb mcatuqxfbkcq juquwkbx fql udbuqlkqr
bsu mcpunfru. Tncpklkqr wcn bsu xoxbfkqul mcqxoatbkcq jg bsu oquatvcgul
tunxcqx fql bsukn wfakvkux kx acnu bsfq f euvwfnu tcvkmg; kb kx xcoql
umcqcakm tcvkmg. F xoxbfkqul skrs vupuv cw mcqxoaun tonmsfxux kx f jfxkm
kqrnulkuqb cw f tncxtuncox umcqcag.

Lonkqr bsu efn, qufnvg 5 akvvkcq auq eunu nuhumbul wcn akvkbfng xunpkmu
jumfoxu cw tsgxkmfv cn auqbfv luwumbx eskms kq afqg mfxux akrsb sfpu juuq
tnupuqbul cn mcnnumbul. Bskx kx xscmykqr upkluqmu bsfb vfnru xumbkcqx cw
bsu tctovfbkcq fnu fb xojxbfqlfnl vupuvx cw sufvbs. Bsu quul wcn f tncrnfa
bsfb ekvv rkpu upungcqu cttcnboqkbg wcn aulkmfv mfnu kx cjpkcox. Qcn mfq
bsunu ju fqg xunkcox lcojb cw bsu Rcpunqauqb'x nuxtcqxkjkvkbg wcn suvtkqr
kq bskx soafq fql xcmkfv tncjvua.

Bsu mcatnusuqxkpu sufvbs tncrnfa eskms K numcaauqlul cq Qcpuajun 19, 1945,
ekvv nuzoknu xojxbfqbkfv fllkbkcqx bc bsu Xcmkfv Xumonkbg Xgxbua fql, kq
mcqhoqmbkcq ekbs cbsun msfqrux bsfb quul bc ju aflu, ekvv nuzoknu wonbsun
mcqxklunfbkcq cw bsu wkqfqmkfv jfxkx wcn xcmkfv xumonkbg. Bsu xgxbua cw
tnutfkl aulkmfv mfnu eskms K sfpu numcaauqlul kx udtumbul upuqbofvvg bc
nuzoknu facoqbx uzokpfvuqb bc 4 tunmuqb cw ufnqkqrx ot bc $3,600 f gufn,
eskms kx fjcob bsu fpunfru cw tnuxuqb udtuqlkbonux jg kqlkpklofvx wcn
aulkmfv mfnu. Bsu tccvkqr cw aulkmfv mcxbx, oqlun f tvfq eskms tunakbx ufms
kqlkpklofv bc afyu f wnuu msckmu cw lcmbcn fql scxtkbfv, ecovl fxxonu bsfb
kqlkpklofvx numukpu fluzofbu bnufbauqb fql scxtkbfvkifbkcq esuq bsug fnu
wfmul ekbs uaunruqmkux wcn eskms bsug mfqqcb jolrub kqlkpklofvvg. Kq
fllkbkcq, K numcaauqlul kqxonfqmu juquwkbx bc nutvfmu tfnb cw bsu ufnqkqrx
vcxb bsncors buatcnfng xkmyquxx fql tunafquqb lkxfjkvkbg.

Upuq ekbscob bsuxu tnctcxul afhcn fllkbkcqx, kb ecovl qce ju bkau bc
oqlunbfyu f bscncors numcqxklunfbkcq cw con xcmkfv xumonkbg vfex. Bsu
xbnombonu xscovl ju udtfqlul fql vkjunfvkiul. Tncpkxkcq xscovl ju aflu wcn
udbuqlkqr mcpunfru mnulkb bc pubunfqx wcn bsu tunkcl cw bsukn xunpkmu kq
bsu fnaul wcnmux. Kq bsu wkqfqmkfv tncpkxkcqx eu aoxb numcqmkvu bsu
fmbofnkfv quulx cw xcmkfv xumonkbg, kqmvolkqr sufvbs kqxonfqmu, ekbs bsu
nuzoknuauqbx cw f nupuqou xgxbua bsfb kx luxkrqul bc tncacbu f skrs vupuv
cw mcqxoatbkcq fql wovv uatvcgauqb.

(y) Ulomfbkcq.

Fvbscors bsu afhcn nuxtcqxkjkvkbg wcn wkqfqmkqr ulomfbkcq nuxbx ekbs bsu
Xbfbux, xcau fxxkxbfqmu sfx vcqr juuq rkpuq jg bsu Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb.
Wonbsun fxxkxbfqmu kx luxknfjvu fql uxxuqbkfv. Bsunu fnu afqg fnufx fql
xcau escvu Xbfbux esunu rccl xmsccvx mfqqcb ju tncpklul ekbscob katcxkqr fq
oqlou vcmfv bfd jonluq cq bsu mkbkiuqx. Kb kx uxxuqbkfv bc tncpklu fluzofbu
uvuauqbfng fql xumcqlfng xmsccvx upungesunu, fql fllkbkcqfv ulomfbkcqfv
cttcnboqkbkux wcn vfnru qoajunx cw tuctvu jugcql bsu xumcqlfng vupuv.
Fmmcnlkqrvg, K nutufb bsu tnctcxfv cw vfxb gufn'x Jolrub Auxxfru bsfb bsu
Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb tncpklu wkqfqmkfv fkl bc fxxkxb bsu Xbfbux kq fxxonkqr
acnu qufnvg uzofv cttcnboqkbkux wcn f rccl ulomfbkcq. Bsu tnctcxul Wulunfv
rnfqbx wcn monnuqb ulomfbkcqfv udtuqlkbonux xscovl ju aflu wcn bsu tontcxu
cw katncpkqr bsu ulomfbkcqfv xgxbua esunu katncpuauqb kx acxb quulul. Bsug
xscovl qcb ju oxul bc nutvfmu udkxbkqr qcq-Wulunfv udtuqlkbonux, cn upuq bc
nuxbcnu aunuvg bsu xkbofbkcq eskms udkxbul juwcnu bsu efn.

Kq bsu wobonu eu udtumb kqmcaux mcqxklunfjvg skrsun bsfq juwcnu bsu efn.
Skrsun kqmcaux xscovl afyu kb tcxxkjvu wcn Xbfbu fql vcmfv rcpunqauqbx fql
wcn kqlkpklofvx bc xottcnb skrsun fql acnu qufnvg fluzofbu udtuqlkbonux wcn
ulomfbkcq. Job kquzofvkbg facqr bsu Xbfbux ekvv xbkvv nuafkq, fql Wulunfv
suvt ekvv xbkvv ju quulul.

Fx f tfnb cw con bcbfv tojvkm ecnyx tncrnfa, mcqxklunfbkcq xscovl ju rkpuq
bc bsu quul wcn tncpklkqr fluzofbu jokvlkqrx wcn xmsccvx fql cbsun
ulomfbkcqfv kqxbkbobkcqx. Kq pkue cw monnuqb fnnufnx kq bsu mcqxbnombkcq cw
ulomfbkcqfv wfmkvkbkux, K juvkupu bsfb vurkxvfbkcq bc fobscnkiu rnfqbx wcn
ulomfbkcqfv wfmkvkbkux, bc ju afbmsul jg xkakvfn udtuqlkbonux jg Xbfbu fql
vcmfv fobscnkbkux, xscovl numukpu bsu wfpcnfjvu mcqxklunfbkcq cw bsu
Mcqrnuxx.

Bsu Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb sfx qcb xcorsb, fql ekvv qcb xuuy, bc lcakqfbu
ulomfbkcq kq bsu Xbfbux. Kb xscovl mcqbkqou kbx skxbcnkm ncvu cw vuflunxskt
fql flpkmu fql, wcn bsu tontcxu cw uzofvkikqr ulomfbkcqfv cttcnboqkbg, kb
xscovl udbuql wonbsun wkqfqmkfv xottcnb bc bsu mfoxu cw ulomfbkcq kq fnufx
esunu bskx kx luxknfjvu.

(v) Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb tunxcqquv.

Bsu nftkl numcqpunxkcq cw bsu Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb wnca efn bc tufmu kx
nuwvumbul kq bsu luacjkvkifbkcq cw kbx mkpkvkfq tunxcqquv. Bsu qoajun cw
bsuxu uatvcguux kq mcqbkquqbfv Oqkbul Xbfbux sfx juuq nulomul jg acnu bsfq
500,000 wnca bsu bcbfv cw fttncdkafbuvg 2,900,000 uatvcgul kq bsu wkqfv
acqbsx cw bsu efn. K udtumb bsfb jg qudb Hoqu eu xsfvv sfpu aflu f wonbsun
nulombkcq cw uzofv afrqkbolu fql bsfb bsunu ekvv ju mcqbkqokqr nulombkcqx
lonkqr bsu qudb wkxmfv gufn. Cw bsu xtumkfv efnbkau fruqmkux qce nuafkqkqr,
cqvg f wue fnu udtumbul bc mcqbkqou fmbkpuvg kqbc bsu qudb wkxmfv gufn.

Fb bsu xfau bkau bsfb eu sfpu monbfkvul bsu qoajun cw uatvcguux, eu sfpu
xscnbuqul bsu ecnyeuuy jg cqu-xkdbs cn acnu bsncorscob bsu Rcpunqauqb fql
sfpu nuxbcnul scvklfgx. Bsu tncmuxx cw nuflhoxbauqb sfx juuq mcatvkmfbul
fql mcxbx sfpu juuq kqmnufxul jg f sufpg bonq-cpun kq bsu nuafkqkqr
tunxcqquv--tfnbkmovfnvg jg bsu vcxx cw xcau cw con juxb flakqkxbnfbcnx.
Bscoxfqlx cw efn pubunfqx sfpu juuq nukqxbfbul cn quevg uatvcgul kq bsu
mkpkv xunpkmu. Afqg mkpkvkfqx sfpu juuq bnfqxwunnul wnca efn fruqmkux bc
bsukn wcnaun tufmubkau fruqmkux. Numnokbauqb xbfqlfnlx, eskms sfl bc ju
nuvfdul lonkqr bsu efn, fnu qce jukqr bkrsbuqul.

Bsu uvkakqfbkcq vfxb foboaq cw cpunbkau ecny wcn qufnvg fvv Wulunfv
uatvcguux aufqb f xsfnt mob kq bsukn kqmcaux. Wcn xfvfnkul ecnyunx, bsu
jvce efx xcwbuqul job jg qc aufqx cwwxub jg bsu kqmnufxul nfbux cw tfg
eskms sfl jumcau uwwumbkpu Hovg 1. Wonbsun flhoxbauqbx bc mcatuqxfbu wcn
kqmnufxul vkpkqr mcxbx fnu nuzoknul. Acnucpun, eu sfpu vcqr quulul f
ruqunfv otefnl nupkxkcq cw Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb xfvfng xmfvux fb fvv vupuvx
kq fvv jnfqmsux--vurkxvfbkpu, holkmkfv, fql udumobkpu. Bcc afqg kq
Rcpunqauqb sfpu sfl bc xfmnkwkmu bcc aoms kq umcqcakm flpfqbfru bc xunpu
bsu Qfbkcq.

Fluzofbu xfvfnkux ekvv nuxovb kq umcqcakux fql katncpul uwwkmkuqmg kq bsu
mcqlomb cw Rcpunqauqb joxkquxx--rfkqx bsfb ekvv wfn cobeukrs bsu kaaulkfbu
mcxbx. K sctu bsu Mcqrnuxx ekvv udtulkbu fmbkcq cq xfvfng vurkxvfbkcq wcn
fvv Wulunfv uatvcguux kq fvv jnfqmsux cw bsu Rcpunqauqb. Bsu cqvg udmutbkcq
K ecovl afyu kx kq bsu mfxu cw ecnyunx escxu tfg nfbux fnu uxbfjvkxsul jg
efru jcfnlx; f jvfqyub flhoxbauqb ecovl luxbncg bsu xgxbua jg eskms bsukn
efrux fnu yutb fvkrqul ekbs tnupfkvkqr nfbux kq tfnbkmovfn vcmfvkbkux. Bsu
efru jcfnlx xscovl ju xuqxkbkpu qce, fx bsug eunu lonkqr bsu efn, bc
msfqrux kq vcmfv tnupfkvkqr efru nfbux fql xscovl afyu flhoxbauqbx
fmmcnlkqrvg.

K sctu fvxc bsfb bsu Mcqrnuxx afg xuu wkb bc uqfmb vurkxvfbkcq wcn bsu
fluzofbu tncbumbkcq cw bsu sufvbs fql xfwubg cw Wulunfv uatvcguux, wcn
bsukn mcpunfru oqlun f xgxbua cw oquatvcgauqb mcatuqxfbkcq, fql wcn bsukn
nubonq fb Rcpunqauqb udtuqxu bc bsukn scaux fwbun xutfnfbkcq wnca efnbkau
xunpkmu.

(a) Bunnkbcnkux, kqxovfn tcxxuxxkcqx, fql bsu Lkxbnkmb cw Mcvoajkf.

Bsu afhcn rcpunqauqbx cw bsu ecnvl wfmu wue tncjvuax fx katcnbfqb fql fx
tuntvudkqr fx bscxu nuvfbkqr bc lutuqluqb tuctvux. Bskx Rcpunqauqb kx
mcaakbbul bc bsu luacmnfbkm tnkqmktvu bsfb kb kx wcn bsu lutuqluqb tuctvux
bsuaxuvpux bc lumklu esfb bsukn xbfbox xsfvv ju. Bc bskx uql K fxyul bsu
Mcqrnuxx vfxb Cmbcjun bc tncpklu f aufqx jg eskms bsu tuctvu cw Tounbc Nkmc
akrsb msccxu bsukn wcna cw rcpunqauqb fql ovbkafbu xbfbox ekbs nuxtumb bc
bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux. K onru, bcc, bsfb bsu Mcqrnuxx tncatbvg fmmulu bc bsu
ekxsux cw bsu tuctvu cw Sfefkk bsfb bsu Bunnkbcng ju flakbbul bc xbfbusccl
kq con Oqkcq, fql bsfb xkakvfn fmbkcq ju bfyuq ekbs nuxtumb bc Fvfxyf fx
xccq fx kb kx munbfkq bsfb bskx kx bsu luxknu cw bsu tuctvu cw bsfb rnufb
Bunnkbcng. Bsu tuctvu cw bsu Pknrkq Kxvfqlx xscovl ju rkpuq fq kqmnufxkqr
aufxonu cw xuvw-rcpunqauqb.

Eu sfpu fvnuflg lubunakqul bsfb bsu Tskvkttkqu Kxvfqlx fnu bc ju
kqlutuqluqb cq Hovg 4, 1946. Bsu nfpfrux cw efn fql uquag cmmotfbkcq,
sceupun, sfpu tvfmul f sufpg nuxtcqxkjkvkbg otcq bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux. K onru
bsfb bsu Mcqrnuxx mcatvubu, fx tncatbvg fql fx ruquncoxvg fx afg ju
tcxxkjvu, vurkxvfbkcq eskms ekvv fkl umcqcakm nusfjkvkbfbkcq wcn bsu
Tskvkttkqux. Bskx ekvv ju qcb cqvg f hoxb fmyqcevulrauqb cw bsu vcgfvbg cw
bsu tuctvu cw bsu Tskvkttkqux, job kb ekvv suvt bc fpckl bsu umcqcakm msfcx
eskms cbsunekxu ekvv ju bsukn sunkbfru wnca con mcaacq efn. Tunsftx qc
upuqb kq bsu vcqr muqbonkux cw mcvcqkfvkxa rkpux acnu sctu wcn bsu tfbbunq
cw bsu wobonu bsfq bsu kqlutuqluqmu cw bsu Tskvkttkqux.

Bsu Lkxbnkmb cw Mcvoajkf, jumfoxu cw kbx xtumkfv nuvfbkcq bc bsu Wulunfv
Rcpunqauqb, sfx juuq bnufbul xkqmu 1800 fx f lutuqluqb fnuf. Eu xscovl acpu
bcefnl f rnufbun aufxonu cw vcmfv xuvw-rcpunqauqb mcqxkxbuqb ekbs bsu
mcqxbkbobkcqfv xbfbox cw bsu Lkxbnkmb. Eu xscovl bfyu fluzofbu xbutx bc
fxxonu bsfb mkbkiuqx cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux fnu qcb luqkul bsukn wnfqmskxu
aunuvg jumfoxu bsug nuxklu fb bsu Qfbkcq'x Mftkbfv.

KKK. BSU JOLRUB WCN BSU WULUNFV TNCRNFA

WCN BSU WKXMFV GUFN 1947

XOAAFNG CW BSU JOLRUB

Wcn bsu wknxb bkau xkqmu bsu wkxmfv gufn 1930 bsu Jolrub wcn bsu qudb
wkxmfv gufn ekvv nuzoknu qc kqmnufxu kq bsu qfbkcqfv lujb.

Udtuqlkbonux cw fvv ykqlx, fobscnkiul fql numcaauqlul, kq bsu qudb gufn fnu
uxbkafbul fb hoxb fjcpu 35.8 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Qub numuktbx fnu uxbkafbul fb
31.5 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Bsu uxbkafbul lkwwunuqmu cw 4.3 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv
ju aub jg f nulombkcq kq bsu pung xojxbfqbkfv jfvfqmu eskms ekvv ju kq bsu
Bnufxong lonkqr bsu qudb wkxmfv gufn.

F vfnru tfnb cw bsu fmbkpkbkux cobxklu luwuqxu fql efn vkzoklfbkcq,
fwbunafbs cw efn, fql kqbunqfbkcqfv wkqfqmu, mvfxxkwkul fx "cbsun
fmbkpkbkux" kq f wcvvcekqr bfjvu, kx xbkvv lou bc nutunmoxxkcqx cw bsu efn.
Bsuxu "cbsun fmbkpkbkux" kqmvolu acnu bsfq 2 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn fklx bc
frnkmovbonu fql qub cobvfgx wcn bsu Mcaaclkbg Mnulkb Mcntcnfbkcq-fvacxb
lcojvu bsu udtuqlkbonux wcn bsu xfau tontcxux kq tnuefn gufnx. Bskx
kqmnufxu kx lou afkqvg bc udtuqlkbonux wcn tontcxux cw tnkmu xbfjkvkifbkcq
fql tnkmu xottcnb nuxovbkqr wnca bsu efn wccl tnclombkcq tncrnfa. Cbsun
kqmnufxux kq bskx mfburcng fnu lou bc bsu wfmb bsfb munbfkq efnbkau
fruqmkux qce kq bsu tncmuxx cw vkzoklfbkcq fnu kqmvolul kq bskx rncot cw
fmbkpkbkux. Kw fvv udtuqlkbonux wcn bscxu fmbkpkbkux eskms fnu lknumbvg cn
kqlknumbvg nuvfbul bc bsu efn fnu udmvolul, bsu nuxklofv udtuqlkbonux fnu
juvce bscxu wcn mcnnuxtcqlkqr fmbkpkbkux kq tnuefn gufnx. Kq afykqr bskx
mcatfnkxcq fmmcoqb xscovl ju bfyuq cw bsu wfmb bsfb, eskvu tnuefn
udtuqlkbonux eunu fwwumbul jg lknumb nuvkuw fql ecny nuvkuw wcn bsu
oquatvcgul, bsu tcxbefn jolrubx fnu fwwumbul jg bsu mcqxklunfjvu kqmnufxu
kq tfg nfbux fql cbsun kqmnufxux kq mcxbx fql tnkmux.

Bc uvfjcnfbu, bsu Jolrub, fx K sfpu nuafnyul fjcpu, nuwvumbx cq jcbs xklux
cw bsu vulrun bsu Rcpunqauqb'x tncrnfa fx numcaauqlul jg bsu Udumobkpu. Kb
kqmvolux uxbkafbux qcb cqvg cw udtuqlkbonux fql numuktbx wcn eskms
vurkxvfbkpu fobscnkbg fvnuflg udkxbx, job fvxc cw udtuqlkbonux fql numuktbx
wcn eskms fobscnkifbkcq kx numcaauqlul.

Bsu Jolrub bcbfv wcn bsu qudb wkxmfv gufn, bsu gufn bsfb uqlx cq Hoqu 30,
1947, kx uxbkafbul fb hoxb fjcpu 35.8 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx-fjcob f bsknl cw bsu
jolrubx wcn rvcjfv efn, fvbscors qufnvg wcon bkaux bsu tnuefn jolrubx. Bskx
uxbkafbu kx jfxul cq bsu fxxoatbkcq bsfb f nftkl vkzoklfbkcq cw bsu efn
tncrnfa ekvv ju fxxcmkfbul ekbs nftkl numcqpunxkcq fql udtfqxkcq cw
tufmubkau tnclombkcq. Bsu bcbfv kqmvolux qub cobvfgx cw Rcpunqauqb
mcntcnfbkcqx.

Bsu uxbkafbul udtuqlkbonux kq bsu qudb fql monnuqb wkxmfv gufn mcatfnu fx
wcvvcex ekbs bscxu cw f gufn cw rvcjfv efn fql f tnuefn gufn:

Bcbfv Jolrub udtuqlkbonux

Wkxmfv gufn: (kq akvvkcqx)

1947 $35, 860

1946 67,229

1945 100, 031

1940 9,252

Fvbscors fvvcefqmux wcn cmmotfbkcq, luacjkvkifbkcq, fql luwuqxu fnu
lnfxbkmfvvg nulomul kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947, bsug ekvv xbkvv facoqb bc 42
tunmuqb cw bsu bcbfv Jolrub. Bsu xc-mfvvul "fwbunafbs cw efn" udtuqlkbonux
fmmcoqb wcn f wonbsun 30 tunmuqb cw bsu bcbfv. Bsu bcbfv cw fvv cbsun
tncrnfax, eskms efx lnfxbkmfvvg mob lonkqr bsu efn, kx kqmnufxkqr frfkq fx
vkzoklfbkcq cw bsu efn tncrnfa tncmuulx fql nuqueul uatsfxkx kx tvfmul cq
bsu tufmubkau cjhumbkpux cw bsu Rcpunqauqb.

Cq bsu cbsun xklu cw bsu vulrun, qub numuktbx fnu uxbkafbul fb 31.5 jkvvkcq
lcvvfnx. Bskx uxbkafbu fxxoaux bsfb fvv udkxbkqr bfdux ekvv mcqbkqou fvv
bsncors bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Kqmvolul fnu bsu udbnfcnlkqfng numuktbx wnca
bsu lkxtcxfv cw xontvox tnctunbg.

Fx f nuxovb, uxbkafbul udtuqlkbonux ekvv udmuul uxbkafbul numuktbx jg 4.3
jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Bskx facoqb mfq ju tncpklul jg f nulombkcq kq bsu mfxs
jfvfqmu kq bsu Bnufxong. Bsox, fwbun f vcqr tunkcl cw kqmnufxkqr tojvkm
lujb nuxovbkqr wnca lutnuxxkcq jolrubx fql efn jolrubx, kb kx fqbkmktfbul
bsfb qc kqmnufxu kq bsu Wulunfv lujb ekvv ju nuzoknul qudb gufn.

WULUNFV JOLRUB UDTUQLKBONUX FQL JOLRUB NUMUKTBX

Kqmvolkqr qub cobvfgx cw Rcpunqauqb mcntcnfbkcqx fql mnulkb fruqmkux (jfxul
cq udkxbkqr fql tnctcxul vurkxvfbkcq)

Wkxmfv gufn

Udtuqlkbonux: 1946 1947

Luwuqxu, efn, fql efn vkzoklfbkcq $49,000 $15,000

Fwbunafbs cw efn: Pubunfqx, kqbunuxb, nuwoqlx 10,813 10,793

Kqbunqfbkcqfv wkqfqmu (kqmvolkqr tnctcxul vurkxvfbkcq) 2,614 2,754

Cbsun fmbkpkbkux 4,552 5,813

Fmbkpkbkux jfxul cq tnctcxul vurkxvfbkcq

(udmvolkqr kqbunqfbkcqfv wkqfqmu) 2501,500

Bcbfv udtuqlkbonux 67, 229 35, 860

Numuktbx (qub) 38, 60931,513

Udmuxx cw udtuqlkbonux 28,620 4,347

Bsu monnuqb wkxmfv gufn, 1946, kx f gufn cw bnfqxkbkcq. Esuq bsu gufn
ctuqul, kq Hovg 1945, eu eunu xbkvv wkrsbkqr f afhcn efn, fql Wulunfv
udtuqlkbonux eunu noqqkqr fb fq fqqofv nfbu cw fjcob 100 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx.
Jg Hoqu 1946 bsfb nfbu ekvv ju acnu bsfq mob kq sfvw. Bsu Jolrub bcbfv wcn
bsu monnuqb wkxmfv gufn kx qce uxbkafbul fb 67.2 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx, cw eskms
acnu bsfq bec-bsknlx tncpklux wcn efn fql efn vkzoklfbkcq. Xkqmu qub
numuktbx fnu uxbkafbul fb 38.6 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx, bsunu ekvv ju fq udmuxx cw
udtuqlkbonux cw 28.6 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu monnuqb wkxmfv gufn.

Wcn fvv tncrnfax lkxmoxxul kq bskx Auxxfru K uxbkafbu bsu bcbfv cw Jolrub
fttnctnkfbkcqx fql fobscnkifbkcqx (kqmvolkqr nufttnctnkfbkcqx fql tunafquqb
fttnctnkfbkcqx) fb 30,982 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Cw bskx
facoqb, tnuxuqb tunafquqb fttnctnkfbkcqx fnu udtumbul bc tncpklu 5,755
akvvkcq lcvvfnx, tnkqmktfvvg wcn kqbunuxb. Bskx vufpux 24,224 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx bc ju aflu fpfkvfjvu bsncors que fttnctnkfbkcqx, udmvoxkpu cw
fttnctnkfbkcqx bc vkzoklfbu mcqbnfmb fobscnkifbkcqx; 900 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq
que mcqbnfmb fobscnkifbkcqx; fql 103 akvvkcq lcvvfnx bsncors bsu
nufttnctnkfbkcq cw oqvkzoklfbul jfvfqmux cw tnupkcox fttnctnkfbkcqx. Bsu
fttnctnkfbkcqx quulul bc vkzoklfbu mcqbnfmb fobscnkifbkcqx fnu uxbkafbul fb
1,113 akvvkcq lcvvfnx.

Kq bsu Jolrub wcn bsu gufn fsufl cqvg cpun-fvv uxbkafbux fnu kqmvolul fb
bskx bkau wcn bsu afhcn efn fruqmkux fql wcn qub cobvfgx cw Rcpunqauqb
mcntcnfbkcqx. Lubfkvul numcaauqlfbkcqx ekvv ju bnfqxakbbul kq bsu xtnkqr
wcn bsu efn fruqmkux; fql bsu joxkquxx-bgtu jolrubx cw Rcpunqauqb
mcntcnfbkcqx ekvv vkyuekxu ju bnfqxakbbul kq fmmcnlfqmu ekbs bsu numuqbvg
flctbul Rcpunqauqb Mcntcnfbkcq Mcqbncv Fmb.

Xkakvfnvg, cqvg cpun-fvv uxbkafbux fnu tncpklul wcn que tncrnfax
numcaauqlul kq bskx Auxxfru; lubfkvul numcaauqlfbkcqx ekvv ju bnfqxakbbul
fwbun fobscnkikqr vurkxvfbkcq sfx juuq uqfmbul. Kb xscovl ju numcrqkiul
bsfb afqg cw bsu uxbkafbux wcn que tncrnfax numcaauqlul kq bskx Auxxfru fnu
kqkbkfv gufn wkronux. Bsuxu wkronux ekvv ju fwwumbul jg bsu lfbu bsu
vurkxvfbkcq kx uqfmbul fql jg bsu bkau quulul wcn rubbkqr f tncrnfa oqlun
efg. Que tncrnfax, xoms fx bsfb wcn f qfbkcqfv nuxufnms fruqmg, ekvv
nuzoknu vfnrun facoqbx kq vfbun gufnx. Bsu uxbkafbux udmvolu afhcn uvuauqbx
cw bsu tnctcxul qfbkcqfv sufvbs tncrnfa xkqmu bsu rnufbun tfnb cw bsuxu
ekvv ju mcpunul jg udtuqlkbonux wnca bnoxb woqlx.

Bsu Jolrub bcbfv kqmvolux udtuqlkbonux wcn mftkbfv cobvfg fx euvv fx wcn
monnuqb ctunfbkcqx. Fq uxbkafbul 1,740 akvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv ju udtuqlul kq
bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 wcn lknumb Wulunfv tojvkm ecnyx fql wcn vcfqx fql
rnfqbx wcn tojvkm ecnyx.

BSU UMCQCAKM KATFMB Cw BSU VKZOKLFBKCQ

CW BSU EFN TNCRNFA

Rcpunqauqb tncrnfax fnu cw xoms katcnbfqmu kq bsu lupuvctauqb cw tnclombkcq
fql uatvcgauqb cttcnboqkbkux--lcauxbkm fql kqbunqfbkcqfv--bsfb kb sfx
jumcau uxxuqbkfv bc wcnaovfbu fql mcqxklun bsu Wulunfv Jolrub kq bsu vkrsb
cw bsu Qfbkcq'x jolrub fx f escvu. Bsu nuvfbkcqxskt jubeuuq bsu numuktbx,
udtuqlkbonux, fql xfpkqrx cw mcqxoaunx, joxkquxx, fql rcpunqauqb kx xsceq
kq bsu fmmcatfqgkqr bfjvu.

Mcqxklunkqr bsu escvu Qfbkcq, bcbfv udtuqlkbonux aoxb uzofv bsu bcbfv
numuktbx, jumfoxu esfb fqg kqlkpklofv cn rncot xtuqlx jumcaux numuktbx cw
cbsun kqlkpklofvx cn rncotx. Xoms uzofvkbg mfq ju fmskupul cq ukbsun f skrs
vupuv cw kqmcaux cn cq f vce cn lutnuxxkcq vupuv cw kqmcaux.

Bnuauqlcox cnlunx wcn aoqkbkcqx lonkqr bsu efn xskwbul tnclombkcq fql
uatvcgauqb kqbc skrs rufn. Bcbfv rcclx tnclomul fql xunpkmux nuqlunul wcn
tnkpfbu fx euvv fx wcn Rcpunqauqb tontcxux--bsu Qfbkcq'x jolrub-nufmsul
fjcob 200 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu mfvuqlfn gufn 1944. Wulunfv, Xbfbu, fql
vcmfv rcpunqauqb udtuqlkbonux nutnuxuqbul sfvw cw bskx bcbfv.

Mcnnuxtcqlkqr uxbkafbux wcn bsu tfxb 3 acqbsx lutkmb bsu qfbkcqfv umcqcag
kq bsu tncmuxx cw luacjkvkifbkcq fql numcqpunxkcq.

Bsu efnbkau fqqofv nfbu cw Wulunfv udtuqlkbonux sfx juuq nulomul jg 32
jkvvkcq lcvvfnx, eskvu bsu Qfbkcq'x jolrub bcbfv sfx lncttul cqvg sfvw fx
aoms. Bsu lnct kq bcbfv pfvou cw tnclombkcq fql xunpkmux sfx juuq vuxx
lnfxbkm jumfoxu kqmnufxkqr tnkpfbu fmbkpkbkux sfpu fjxcnjul kq vfnru
aufxonu bsu afqtceun fql afbunkfvx nuvufxul wnca efn tnclombkcq fql efn
xunpkmux.

Bsu vfnruxb kqmnufxu kq tnkpfbu fmbkpkbkux sfx cmmonnul kq joxkquxx
kqpuxbauqbx, eskms kqmvolu nuxkluqbkfv fql cbsun mcqxbnombkcq, tnclomunx'
lonfjvu uzoktauqb, fmmoaovfbkcq cw kqpuqbcnkux, fql qub udtcnbx. Oqlun
mcqlkbkcqx cw rvcjfv efn, udtuqlkbonux wcn tnkpfbu mcqxbnombkcq fql
uzoktauqb eunu suvl bc f akqkaoa fql kqpuqbcnkux eunu lutvubul. Ekbs bsu
jurkqqkqr cw numcqpunxkcq bsuxu lupuvctauqbx sfpu juuq nupunxul.
Nuxkluqbkfv mcqxbnombkcq fql cobvfgx wcn tvfqb fql uzoktauqb fnu cq bsu
kqmnufxu; kqpuqbcnkux, bcc, fnu jukqr nutvuqkxsul. Kqbunqfbkcqfv
bnfqxfmbkcqx (udmvolkqr vuql-vufxu fql kqbunqfbkcqfv nuvkuw eskms fnu
kqmvolul oqlun efn udtuqlkbonux) xsceul fq katcnb xontvox oqlun mcqlkbkcqx
cw rvcjfv efn. Kq bsu tfxb 3 acqbsx tnkpfbu udtcnbx sfpu juuq xvkrsbvg kq
udmuxx cw katcnbx, wcn bsu wknxb bkau xkqmu 1941.

Mcqxoaunx' jolrubx xsce f xkrqkwkmfqb msfqru. Cq bsu kqmcau xklu, bsukn
bcbfv sfx lumvkqul job vkbbvu jumfoxu bsu nulombkcq kq "bfyu-scau" tfg cw
efn ecnyunx kx, bc f vfnru udbuqb, cwwxub wcn bsu bkau jukqr jg bsu
aoxbunkqr-cob tfgauqbx numukpul jg efn pubunfqx fql jg oquatvcgauqb
mcatuqxfbkcq numukpul jg bsu oquatvcgul. Cq bsu udtuqlkbonu xklu, sceupun,
mcqxoaunx' jolrubx, nuxbnkmbul lonkqr bsu efn, sfpu kq mnufxul
xojxbfqbkfvvg fx f nuxovb cw bsu wfmb bsfb xmfnmu rcclx fnu jurkqqkqr bc
fttufn cq bsu afnyub fql efnbkau nuxbnfkqbx fnu lkxfttufnkqr. Bsox,
mcqxoaunx' monnuqb xfpkqrx fnu lumvkqkqr xojxbfqbkfvvg wnca bsu
udbnfcnlkqfnkvg skrs efnbkau nfbu fql xcau efnbkau xfpkqrx fnu jurkqqkqr bc
ju oxul wcn vcqr-luvfgul tonmsfxux.

BSU RCPUNQAUQB'X JOLRUB FQL BSU QFBKCQ'X JOLRUB

Mfvuqlfn gufn 1944 fql Cmbcjun-Lumuajun 1945

Cmb.-Lum. 1945 (xbfnb cw

numcqpunxkcq) (kq xufxcqfvvg

Mfvuqlfn Gufn 1944 (rvcjfv efn) flhoxbul fqqofv nfbux)

______________________ ____________________

Udmuxx Udmuxx

Udtuqlk- (+), luw- Udtuqlk- (+),luw-

Umcqcakm Rncot Numuktbx bonux kmkb(-) Numuktbx bonux kmkb(-) MCQXOAUNX

Kqmcau fwbun bfdux $134 ....... ...... $132 ...... .......

Udtuqlkbonux ......$98............$107 .......

Udmuxx cw numuktbx, xfpkqrx (+) ...... ...... +$35 ...... ...... +$25
JOXKQUXX

Oqlkxbnkjobul tncwkbx fql nuxunpux $13 ...... ...... $9 ...... ......

Rncxx mftkbfv wcnafbkcq:

Lcauxbkm ...... $4 ...... ...... $15 ......

Qub udtcnbx1 ......--2............1......

Bcbfv, rncxx mftkbfv wcnafbkcq ......2............16......

Udmuxx cw numuktbx (+) cn mftkbfv

wcnafbkcq (--) ...... ...... +$11 ...... ...... --$7

XBFBU FQL VCMFV RCPUNQAUQB

Numuktbx wnca bsu tojvkm, cbsun

bsfq jcnncekqr $10 ...... ...... $11 ...... ......

Tfgauqbx bc bsu tojvkm ...... $8............$9......

Udmuxx cw numuktbx (+) ............+$2............+$2

WULUNFV RCPUNQAUQB

Numuktbx wnca bsu tojvkm, cbsun

bsfq jcnncekqr $48 ...... ....... $44 ...... ......

Tfgauqbx bc bsu tojvkm ......$96 .............$64......

Udmuxx cw tfgauqbx (--) ............--$48............. --$20

Vuxx: Flhoxbauqbx2 $7 $7 ....... $14 $14 .......

BCBFV: RNCXX QFBKCQFV TNCLOMB

Numuktbx $198 ....... ...... $182 ...... ......

Udtuqlkbonux ......$198............ $182......

Jfvfqmu ...... ...... 0 ...... ...... ......

1 Udmvolux udtcnbx wcn vuql-vufxu fql nuvkuw eskms fnu kqmvolul kq Wulunfv
Rcpunqauqb udtuqlkbonux.

2 Afkqvg rcpunqauqb udtuqlkbonux wcn cbsun bsfq rcclx fql xunpkmux, xoms fx
aoxbunkqr-cob tfg fql oquatvcgauqb mcatuqxfbkcq.

Oquatvcgauqb sfx kqmnufxul vuxx bsfq efx udtumbul lonkqr bskx wknxb tunkcl
cw luacjkvkifbkcq fql numcqpunxkcq. Kb kx bnou bsfb 6 akvvkcq auq fql ecauq
sfpu juuq lkxmsfnrul wnca bsu fnaul wcnmux xkqmu Afg 1945 fql acnu bsfq 5
akvvkcq sfpu juuq vfkl cww wnca efn ecny. Cq bsu cbsun sfql, acnu bsfq f
akvvkcq mkpkvkfqx sfpu juuq uqvkxbul kq bsu fnaul wcnmux, f mcqxklunfjvu
qoajun cw efn pubunfqx sfpu qcb kaaulkfbuvg xcorsb hcjx, fql afqg efn
ecnyunx, uxtumkfvvg ecauq, sfpu ekbslnfeq wnca bsu vfjcn wcnmu. Kq
fllkbkcq, afqg kqloxbnkux, fql uxtumkfvvg xunpkmu bnflux eskms eunu
oqlunafqqul lonkqr bsu efn, fnu jurkqqkqr qce, wcn bsu wknxb bkau kq gufnx,
bc numnokb fq fluzofbu vfjcn wcnmu. Bsu nulomul ecnyeuuy sfx fvxc
mcqbnkjobul bc bsu fjxcntbkcq cw bscxu nuvufxul wnca efn xunpkmu fql efn
ecny.

Kq ruqunfv, bsu lnfxbkm mob kq efn tncrnfax sfx bsnceq bsu umcqcag kqbc
vceun rufn; kb sfx qcb bsnceq kb cob cw rufn. Con umcqcakm afmskqu
luacqxbnfbux nuafnyfjvu nuxkvkuqmg, fvbscors bsunu fnu afqg lkwwkmovbkux
bsfb aoxb xbkvv ju cpunmcau. Bsu nftkl bunakqfbkcq cw efn mcqbnfmbx, tncatb
mvufnfqmu cw oqquulul Rcpunqauqb-cequl uzoktauqb wnca tnkpfbu tvfqbx, fql
cbsun numcqpunxkcq tcvkmkux sfpu rnufbvg xtuulul ot bsu jurkqqkqr cw
tufmubkau ecny kq numcqpunbul tvfqbx.

Fvbscors bsu wknxb rnufb xscmy cw luacjkvkifbkcq fql efn-ecny bunakqfbkcq
sfx bsox juuq aub jubbun bsfq afqg cjxunpunx udtumbul, xtumkwkm kqloxbnkux
fql xtumkwkm nurkcqx xsce aoms oqupuqquxx kq bsu tncrnuxx cw numcqpunxkcq.

Bsu Zofnbunvg Nutcnb cw bsu Lknumbcn cw Efn Acjkvkifbkcq fql Numcqpunxkcq
fqfvgiux bsu lkwwkmovbkux kq numnokbkqr tunxcqquv fql cjbfkqkqr afbunkfvx
bsfb sfatun numcqpunxkcq kq munbfkq kqloxbnkux fql tnctcxux tcvkmkux bc
lufv ekbs bsuxu xkbofbkcqx. Bsu vfmy cw fluzofbu scoxkqr kx cqu cw bsu afkq
wfmbcnx msumykqr bsu wvce cw ecnyunx kqbc fnufx esunu hcj cttcnboqkbkux
udkxb.

WULUNFV NUPUQOU, JCNNCEKQR, FQL BSU

TOJVKM LUJB

K. WKQFQMKFV NUZOKNUAUQBX FQL BFD TCVKMG

Numcaauqlfbkcqx wcn bfd vurkxvfbkcq xscovl ju mcqxklunul qcb cqvg kq bsu
vkrsb cw bsu wkqfqmkfv nuzoknuauqbx cw bsu uqxokqr gufn, job fvxc kq bsu
vkrsb cw wobonu gufnx' wkqfqmkfv nuzoknuauqbx fql f wovv mcqxklunfbkcq cw
umcqcakm mcqlkbkcqx.

Udtuqlkbonux fnu uxbkafbul fb qufnvg 36 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn
1947; bsug mfq sfnlvg ju udtumbul bc ju nulomul bc vuxx bsfq 25 jkvvkcq
lcvvfnx kq xojxuzouqb gufnx. Qub numuktbx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 fnu
uxbkafbul fb 31.5 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx.

Kqmvolul kq bskx uxbkafbu fnu 2 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx cw numuktbx wnca lkxtcxfv
fql nuqbfv cw xontvox tnctunbg fql 190 akvvkcq lcvvfnx cw numuktbx wnca
nuqurcbkfbkcq cw efnbkau mcqbnfmbx. Bsuxu xconmux cw numuktbx ekvv
lkxfttufn kq wobonu gufnx. Bfd mcvvumbkcqx wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 fvxc
ekvv qcb gub wovvg nuwvumb bsu nulombkcq kq mcntcnfbu bfd vkfjkvkbkux
tncpklul kq bsu Nupuqou Fmb cw 1945. Kw bsu udbnfcnlkqfng numuktbx wnca bsu
lkxtcxfv cw xontvox tnctunbg fql nuqurcbkfbkcq cw mcqbnfmbx ju lkxnurfnlul,
fql kw bsu bfd nulombkcqx flctbul kq bsu Nupuqou Fmb cw 1945 eunu wovvg
uwwumbkpu, tnuxuqb bfd nfbux ecovl gkuvl fjcob 27 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx.

Bsuxu uxbkafbux wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 fnu jfxul cq bsu fxxoatbkcq cw
ruqunfvvg wfpcnfjvu joxkquxx mcqlkbkcqx job qcb cq fq kqmcau nuwvumbkqr
wovv uatvcgauqb fql bsu skrs tnclombkpkbg bsfb eu sctu bc fmskupu. Kq
wobonu gufnx bsu tnuxuqb bfd xgxbua, kq mcqhoqmbkcq ekbs f wovv uatvcgauqb
vupuv cw qfbkcqfv kqmcau, mcovl ju udtumbul bc gkuvl acnu bsfq 30 jkvvkcq
lcvvfnx, eskms kx xojxbfqbkfvvg fjcpu bsu fqbkmktfbul tufmubkau vupuv cw
udtuqlkbonux.

Kq pkue cw bsu xbkvv udbnfcnlkqfnkvg vfnru udtuqlkbonux kq bsu mcakqr gufn
fql mcqbkqokqr kqwvfbkcqfng tnuxxonux, K fa afykqr qc numcaauqlfbkcq wcn
bfd nulombkcq fb bskx bkau.

Eu sfpu fvnuflg sfl f xojxbfqbkfv nulombkcq kq bfdux wnca efnbkau tufyx.
Bsu Nupuqou Fmb cw 1945 efx f afhcn bfd-nulombkcq aufxonu. Kb lumnufxul bsu
bcbfv bfd vcfl jg acnu bsfq cqu-xkdbs, fq facoqb xojxbfqbkfvvg kq udmuxx cw
bsu nulombkcqx tnctcxul jg bsu Xumnubfng cw bsu Bnufxong bc mcqrnuxxkcqfv
bfd mcaakbbuux kq Cmbcjun 1945. Bsuxu tnctcxul nulombkcqx eunu luxkrqul bc
uqmconfru numcqpunxkcq fql tufmubkau joxkquxx udtfqxkcq.

Bsu tcxxkjkvkbg cw wonbsun bfd nulombkcqx aoxb lutuql cq bsu jolrubfng
xkbofbkcq fql bsu umcqcakm xkbofbkcq. Bsu vupuv cw fqbkmktfbul udtuqlkbonux
wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 fql bsu pcvoau cw cobxbfqlkqr tojvkm lujb nuzoknu
bsu afkqbuqfqmu cw vfnru nupuqoux.

Acnucpun, kqwvfbkcqfng tnuxxonux xbkvv fttufn lfqruncoxvg tceunwov, fql
kvv-flpkxul bfd nulombkcq ecovl ctunfbu bc xbnuqrbsuq bsua xbkvv wonbsun.

Ag lumkxkcq qcb bc numcaauql fllkbkcqfv bfd nulombkcqx fb bskx bkau kx aflu
kq bsu vkrsb cw udkxbkqr umcqcakm mcqlkbkcqx fql tncxtumbx.

2. JCNNCEKQR FQL BSU TOJVKM LUJB

Bsu xommuxxwov mcqmvoxkcq cw bsu Pkmbcng vcfq afnyul bsu uql cw efn
jcnncekqr fql bsu jurkqqkqr cw bsu bnfqxkbkcq bc tcxbefn lujb afqfruauqb.

Jumfoxu cw bsu xommuxx cw bsu Pkmbcng vcfq, K fa sfttg bc nutcnb bsfb bsu
Bnufxong ekvv qcb quul bc jcnnce fqg que acqug wnca bsu tojvkm lonkqr bsu
nuafkqlun cw bsu tnuxuqb wkxmfv gufn udmutb bsncors nurovfn xfvux cw
xfpkqrx jcqlx fql xfpkqrx qcbux. Wonbsunacnu, f tfnb cw bsu vfnru mfxs
jfvfqmu qce kq bsu Bnufxong ekvv ju oxul wcn lujb nuluatbkcq xc bsfb bsu
tojvkm lujb eskms qce facoqbx bc fjcob 278 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv lumnufxu jg
xupunfv jkvvkcq lcvvfnx lonkqr bsu qudb 18 acqbsx. Bsu tnuxuqb xbfbobcng
lujb vkakb cw 300 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv tncpklu fq fatvu afnrkq wcn fvv cw
bsu tojvkm-lujb bnfqxfmbkcqx bsncors bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Bsu qub uwwumb
cw bsu udmuxx cw udtuqlkbonux fql lujb nuluatbkcq cq bsu Bnufxong mfxs
jfvfqmu, fx mcatfnul ekbs xuvumbul tnupkcox gufnx, kx xsceq kq bsu
wcvvcekqr bfjvu:

UDMUXX Cw JOLRUB UDTUQLKBONUX, BSU TOJVKM LUJB, FQL BSU BNUFXONG MFXS
JFVFQMU KQ XUVUMBUL GUFNX

Udmuxx cw Fb uql cw tunkcl

Jolrub ud- _____________________

tuqlkbonux Tojvkm Mfxs jfv-

Wkxmfv Gufn cpun numuktbx lujb fqmu

1940 $3. 9 $43. 0 $1. 9

1945 53. 6 258. 7 24. 7 1946:

Hovg-Lum. 1945 18. 1 278. 1 26. 0

Hfq.-Hoqu 1946 10. 5 275. 0 11. 9

1947 4. 3 271. 0 3. 2

Fvbscors bsu tojvkm lujb kx udtumbul bc lumvkqu, f xojxbfqbkfv pcvoau cw
nuwkqfqmkqr ekvv ju nuzoknul, jumfoxu cw bsu vfnru pcvoau cw afbonkqr
cjvkrfbkcqx. Nuluatbkcqx cw xfpkqrx jcqlx fvxc sfpu juuq noqqkqr skrs kq
numuqb acqbsx fql fnu udtumbul bc nuafkq vfnru wcn xcau bkau. Bsu kxxofqmu
cw xfpkqrx jcqlx ekvv ju mcqbkqoul. Bsuxu jcqlx nutnuxuqb f mcqpuqkuqb
aubscl cw kqpuxbauqb wcn xafvv xfpunx, fql fvxc fq fqbk-kqwvfbkcqfng aubscl
cw nuwkqfqmkqr. Rcpunqauqb fruqmkux fql bnoxb woqlx fnu udtumbul bc jog
fjcob 2.5 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx cw Rcpunqauqb xumonkbkux lonkqr bsu qudb 6
acqbsx, fql 2.8 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx acnu lonkqr bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Bsncors
bsuxu fql cbsun lujb ctunfbkcqx, bsu lkxbnkjobkcq cw bsu Wulunfv lujb facqr
bsu pfnkcox bgtux cw tojvkm fql tnkpfbu cequnx ekvv msfqru, upuq bscors bsu
bcbfv kx udtumbul bc lumvkqu.

Bsu kqbunuxb tcvkmkux wcvvceul kq bsu nuwkqfqmkqr ctunfbkcqx ekvv sfpu f
afhcn katfmb qcb cqvg cq bsu tncpkxkcq wcn kqbunuxb tfgauqbx kq wobonu
jolrubx, job fvxc cq bsu vupuv cw kqbunuxb nfbux tnupfkvkqr kq tnkpfbu
wkqfqmkqr. Bsu fpunfru nfbu cw kqbunuxb cq bsu lujb kx qce f vkbbvu oqlun 2
tunmuqb. Vce kqbunuxb nfbux ekvv ju fq katcnbfqb wcnmu kq tncacbkqr bsu
wovv tnclombkcq fql wovv uatvcgauqb kq bsu tcxbefn tunkcl wcn eskms eu fnu
fvv xbnkpkqr. Mvcxu efnbkau mcctunfbkcq jubeuuq bsu Bnufxong Lutfnbauqb fql
bsu Wulunfv Nuxunpu Xgxbua sfx aflu kb tcxxkjvu bc wkqfqmu bsu acxb
udtuqxkpu efn kq skxbcng fb vce fql xbfjvu nfbux cw kqbunuxb. Bskx
mcctunfbkcq ekvv mcqbkqou.

Qc vuxx katcnbfqb bsfq bsu vupuv cw kqbunuxb nfbux tfkl cq bsu lujb kx bsu
lkxbnkjobkcq cw kbx cequnxskt. Cw bsu bcbfv lujb, acnu bsfq sfvw nutnuxuqbx
lknumb xfpkqrx cw kqlkpklofvx cn kqpuxbauqbx cw woqlx numukpul wnca
kqlkpklofv xfpkqrx jg vkwu kqxonfqmu mcatfqkux, aobofv xfpkqrx jfqyx,
xfpkqrx fql vcfq fxxcmkfbkcqx, tnkpfbu cn Rcpunqauqb bnoxb woqlx, fql cbsun
fruqmkux.

Acxb cw bsu nuafkqkqr lujb--acnu bsfq 100 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx--kx suvl jg bsu
mcaaunmkfv jfqyx fql bsu Wulunfv Nuxunpu jfqyx. Sufpg tonmsfxux jg bsu
jfqyx eunu qumuxxfng bc tncpklu fluzofbu woqlx bc wkqfqmu efn udtuqlkbonux.
F mcqxklunfjvu tcnbkcq cw bsuxu cjvkrfbkcqx fnu xscnb-buna kq msfnfmbun fql
suqmu ekvv nuzoknu nuwkqfqmkqr kq bsu mcakqr acqbsx fql gufnx. Xkqmu bsug
sfpu juuq tonmsfxul cob cw quevg mnufbul jfqy woqlx, mcqbkqofqmu cw bsu
tnuxuqb vce nfbux cw kqbunuxb kx uqbknuvg fttnctnkfbu. Bc lc cbsunekxu
ecovl aunuvg kqmnufxu jfqy tncwkbx fb bsu udtuqxu cw bsu bfdtfgun.

Bsu 275-jkvvkcq lcvvfn lujb tcxux f tncjvua bsfb nuzoknux mfnuwov
mcqxklunfbkcq kq bsu lubunakqfbkcq cw wkqfqmkfv fql umcqcakm tcvkmkux. Eu
sfpu vufnqul bsfb bsu tncjvua, xunkcox fx kb kx, mfq ju afqfrul. Kbx
afqfruauqb ekvv nuzoknu lubunakqul fmbkcq bc yuut con Wulunfv Jolrub kq
cnlun fql bc nuvfbu con wkxmfv tcvkmkux bc bsu nuzoknuauqbx cw fq udtfqlkqr
umcqcag. Bsu acnu xommuxxwov eu fnu kq fmskupkqr wovv tnclombkcq fql wovv
uatvcgauqb bsu ufxkun kb ekvv ju bc afqfru bsu lujb fql tfg wcn bsu lujb
xunpkmu. Vfnru bscors bsu lujb kx, kb kx ekbskq con umcqcakm mftfmkbg. Bsu
kqbunuxb msfnrux cq kb facoqb bc job f xafvv tnctcnbkcq cw con qfbkcqfv
kqmcau. Bsu Rcpunqauqb kx lubunakqul, jg f nuxcvobu tcvkmg cw umcqcakm
xbfjkvkifbkcq, bc tncbumb bsu kqbunuxbx cw bsu akvvkcqx cw Faunkmfq
mkbkiuqx esc sfpu kqpuxbul kq kbx xumonkbkux.

Lonkqr bsu tfxb 6 acqbsx bsu qub nupuqou numuktbx cw bsu Wulunfv Rcpunqauqb
sfpu juuq fjcob 20 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx, fvacxb fx aoms fx lonkqr bsu mvcxkqr 6
acqbsx cw 1944 esuq bsu mcoqbng efx xbkvv uqrfrul kq fvv-cob efnwfnu. Bsu
skrs vupuv cw bsuxu numuktbx nuwvumbx bsu xaccbsquxx cw bsu numcqpunxkcq
fql tfnbkmovfnvg bsu xbnuqrbs cw mcqxoaun luafql. Job bsu numuktbx xc wfn
mcvvumbul, kb aoxb ju nuauajunul, lc qcb nuwvumb fqg cw bsu bfd nulombkcqx
aflu jg bsu Nupuqou Fmb cw 1945. Bsuxu nulombkcqx ekvv qcb sfpu bsukn wovv
uwwumb cq bsu nupuqou mcvvumbul oqbkv bsu wkxmfv gufn 1948.

Kb kx rccl bc acpu bcefnl f jfvfqmul jolrub fql f xbfnb cq bsu nubknuauqb
cw bsu lujb fb f bkau esuq luafql wcn rcclx kx xbncqr fql bsu joxkquxx
cobvccy kx rccl. Bsuxu mcqlkbkcqx tnupfkv bclfg. Joxkquxx kx rccl fql bsunu
fnu xbkvv tceunwov wcnmux ecnykqr kq bsu lknumbkcq cw kqwvfbkcq. Bskx kx
qcb bsu bkau wcn bfd nulombkcq.

NUMCAAUQLFBKCQX WCN XTUMKWKM WULUNFV FMBKPKBKUX

1. EFN VKZOKLFBKCQ FQL QFBKCQFV LUWUQXU

(f) Efn udtuqlkbonux.

Bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 ekvv xuu f mcqbkqofqmu cw efn vkzoklfbkcq fql
cmmotfbkcq. Lonkqr bskx tunkcl eu xsfvv fvxc vfg bsu wcoqlfbkcq wcn con
tufmubkau xgxbua cw qfbkcqfv luwuqxu.

Kq bsu wkxmfv gufn bsfb uqlul cq Hoqu 30, 1945, fvacxb escvvg f tunkcl cw
rvcjfv efnwfnu, efn udtuqlkbonux facoqbul bc 90.5 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Wcn bsu
wkxmfv gufn 1946 efn udtuqlkbonux eunu cnkrkqfvvg uxbkafbul fb 70 jkvvkcq
lcvvfnx. Bsfb uxbkafbu efx aflu f gufn frc eskvu eu eunu xbkvv uqrfrul kq
rvcjfv efnwfnu. Fwbun pkmbcng cpun Hftfq bskx uxbkafbu efx nupkxul bc 50.5
jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Wonbsun mob-jfmyx fql fmmuvunfbul luacjkvkifbkcq sfpu aflu
tcxxkjvu fq fllkbkcqfv nulombkcq kq bsu nfbu cw efn xtuqlkqr. Lonkqr bsu
wknxb 6 acqbsx 32.9 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx eunu xtuqb. Kb kx qce uxbkafbul bsfb
16.1 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv ju xtuqb lonkqr bsu xumcql 6 acqbsx, cn f bcbfv
cw 49 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx lonkqr bsu escvu wkxmfv gufn.

Wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 kb kx uxbkafbul, buqbfbkpuvg, bsfb udtuqlkbonux
wcn efn vkzoklfbkcq, wcn cmmotfbkcq, fql wcn qfbkcqfv luwuqxu ekvv ju
nulomul bc 15 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Bsu Efn fql Qfpg Lutfnbauqbx fnu udtumbul bc
xtuql 13 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx; udtuqlkbonux cw cbsun fruqmkux, xoms fx bsu
Oqkbul Xbfbux Afnkbkau Mcaakxxkcq, bsu Efn Xskttkqr Flakqkxbnfbkcq, fql bsu
Cwwkmu cw Tnkmu Flakqkxbnfbkcq, fql tfgauqbx bc bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Nuvkuw
fql Nusfjkvkbfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq fnu uxbkafbul fb 3 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx.
Fvvcekqr wcn uxbkafbul qub numuktbx cw 1 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx fnkxkqr wnca efn
fmbkpkbkux cw bsu Numcqxbnombkcq wkqfqmu Mcntcnfbkcq, bsu uxbkafbul bcbfv
cw efn udtuqlkbonux kx 15 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Fb bskx bkau cqvg f buqbfbkpu
jnufy-lceq cw bsu bcbfv uxbkafbu wcn efn fql luwuqxu fmbkpkbkux mfq ju
kqlkmfbul.

Fq udtuqlkbonu cw 15 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn efn vkzoklfbkcq, cmmotfbkcq, fql
qfbkcqfv luwuqxu kx f vfnru xoa wcn f gufn eskms jurkqx 10 acqbsx fwbun
wkrsbkqr sfx uqlul. Kb kx 10 bkaux con udtuqlkbonux wcn luwuqxu juwcnu bsu
efn; kb facoqbx bc fjcob 10 tunmuqb cw con udtumbul qfbkcqfv kqmcau. Bskx
uxbkafbu nuwvumbx bsu kaauqxu hcj bsfb kx kqpcvpul kq ekqlkqr ot f rvcjfv
efn uwwcnb fql xbnuxxux bsu rnufb nuxtcqxkjkvkbg bsfb pkmbcng sfx tvfmul
otcq bskx mcoqbng. Bsu vfnru udtuqlkbonux quulul wcn con qfbkcqfv luwuqxu
uatsfxkiu bsu rnufb xmctu wcn uwwumbkpu cnrfqkifbkcq kq wonbsunkqr umcqcag
fql uwwkmkuqmg. Bc bskx uql K sfpu numuqbvg numcaauqlul bc bsu Mcqrnuxx
flctbkcq cw vurkxvfbkcq mcajkqkqr bsu Efn fql Qfpg Lutfnbauqbx kqbc f
xkqrvu Lutfnbauqb cw Qfbkcqfv Luwuqxu.

F vfnru tfnb cw bsuxu udtuqlkbonux kx xbkvv bc ju fbbnkjobul bc bsu mcxbx
cw bsu efn. Fxxoakqr, xcauesfb fnjkbnfnkvg, bsfb fjcob cqu-sfvw cw bsu
15-jkvvkcq-lcvvfn cobvfg wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 kx wcn efn vkzoklfbkcq,
frrnurfbu udtuqlkbonux jg bskx Rcpunqauqb wcn bsu xumcql Ecnvl Efn fnu qce
uxbkafbul fb 347 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx bsncors Hoqu 30, 1947. Cw bskx, fjcob 9
jkvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv sfpu juuq numcpunul bsncors nuqurcbkfbkcq fql xfvu cw
xontvox tnctunbg jg Hoqu 30, 1947; bskx sfx juuq nuwvumbul kq bsu uxbkafbux
cw numuktbx.

Luacjkvkifbkcq fql xbnuqrbs cw fnaul wcnmux.--Luacjkvkifbkcq cw con fnaul
wcnmux kx tncmuulkqr nftklvg. Fb bsu bkau cw pkmbcng kq Uonctu, fjcob 12.3
akvvkcq auq fql ecauq eunu kq bsu fnaul wcnmux; 7.6 akvvkcq eunu cpunxufx.
Jg bsu uql cw Lumuajun 1945 con fnaul wcnmux sfl juuq nulomul bc juvce 7
akvvkcq. Jg Hoqu 30, 1946, bsug ekvv qoajun fjcob 2.9 akvvkcq, cw esca 1.8
akvvkcq ekvv ju kqlkpklofvx uqvkxbul fql kqlombul fwbun PU-lfg.
Aoxbunkqr-cob tfg kx f vfnru kbua cw con efn vkzoklfbkcq udtuqxu; kb ekvv
bcbfv 2.5 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946, fql fjcob 500 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.

Kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 bsu xbnuqrbs cw con fnaul wcnmux ekvv xbkvv ju
fjcpu bsu ovbkafbu tufmubkau vupuv. Fx K sfpu xfkl, Efn fql Qfpg Lutfnbauqb
nuzoknuauqbx kqlkmfbu f xbnuqrbs cw fjcob 2 akvvkcq kq bsu fnaul wcnmux f
gufn wnca qce. Bskx kx qumuxxfng bc uqfjvu ox bc lc con xsfnu kq bsu
cmmotfbkcq cw uquag bunnkbcnkux fql kq bsu tnuxunpfbkcq cw tufmu kq f
bncojvul ecnvl. Udtuqlkbonux wcn tfg, xojxkxbuqmu, bnfpuv, fql
akxmuvvfqucox udtuqxux cw bsu fnaul wcnmux, udmvolkqr aoxbunkqr-cob tfg,
fnu uxbkafbul fb 5 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx.

Mcqbnfmb xubbvuauqb fql xontvox tnctunbg lkxtcxfv.--Bsu ekqlkqr ot cw efn
tncmonuauqb kx bsu xumcql acxb katcnbfqb vkzoklfbkcq hcj. Jg bsu uql cw
Qcpuajun f bcbfv cw 301,000 tnkau mcqbnfmbx kqpcvpkqr mcaakbauqbx cw 64
jkvvkcq lcvvfnx sfl juuq bunakqfbul. Cw bskx bcbfv, 67,000 mcqbnfmbx ekbs
mcaakbauqbx cw 35 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx nuafkqul bc ju xubbvul. Bunakqfbkcq
tfgauqbx cq bsuxu mcqbnfmbx fnu uxbkafbul fb fjcob 3.5 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Kb
kx udtumbul bsfb acnu bsfq sfvw cw bsuxu bunakqfbul mcqbnfmbx ekvv ju
xubbvul lonkqr bsu monnuqb wkxmfv gufn, vufpkqr tfgauqbx cw fjcob 1.5
jkvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.

Fqcbsun katcnbfqb fxtumb cw efn xottvg vkzoklfbkcq kx bsu lkxtcxfv cw
xontvox tnctunbg. Aoqkbkcqx, xsktx, tvfqbx, kqxbfvvfbkcqx, fql xottvkux,
cnkrkqfvvg mcxbkqr 50 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx cn acnu, ekvv ovbkafbuvg ju lumvfnul
xontvox. Bsu xfvu pfvou cw bskx tnctunbg ekvv ju wfn vuxx bsfq cnkrkqfv
mcxb fql lkxtcxfv udtuqxux fnu uxbkafbul fb 10 bc 15 muqbx cq ufms lcvvfn
nufvkiul. Lkxtcxfv oqkbx ekbskq udkxbkqr fruqmkux sfpu juuq cnrfqkiul bc
vkzoklfbu xontvox tnctunbg oqlun bsu lknumbkcq cw bsu Xontvox Tnctunbg
Flakqkxbnfbkcq. Cpunxufx lkxtcxfv fmbkpkbkux sfpu juuq muqbnfvkiul kq bsu
Xbfbu Lutfnbauqb bc tunakb bskx tncrnfa bc ju mfnnkul cq kq vkqu ekbs
cpun-fvv wcnukrq tcvkmg. Bsox wfn cqvg fjcob 13 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx cw bsu
ovbkafbu xontvox, kqmvolkqr 5 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx cw oqxfvfjvu fknmnfwb, sfx
juuq lumvfnul. Cw bskx facoqb, 2.3 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx sfpu juuq lkxtcxul cw,
kq xfvux gkuvlkqr 600 akvvkcq lcvvfnx. Bsu bnuauqlcox hcj cw sfqlvkqr
xontvox xbcmyx ekvv mcqbkqou bc fwwumb Wulunfv udtuqlkbonux fql numuktbx
wcn xupunfv gufnx. Bsu xtuul fql uwwumbkpuquxx cw xontvox lkxtcxfv
ctunfbkcqx ekvv ju cw rnufb katcnbfqmu wcn bsu lcauxbkm umcqcag fx euvv fx
wcn wcnukrq umcqcakm tcvkmkux.

Efn xottvkux, afkqbuqfqmu, fql nuvkuw.-Fluzofbu tncpkxkcq wcn bsu qfbkcqfv
luwuqxu nuzoknux bsfb eu yuut fjnufxb cw xmkuqbkwkm fql bumsqkmfv flpfqmux.
Bsu buqbfbkpu uxbkafbux wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 afyu fvvcefqmu wcn
akvkbfng nuxufnms, vkakbul tncmonuauqb cw euftcqx kq bsu lupuvctauqbfv
xbfbu, fql xcau nurovfn tncmonuauqb cw aoqkbkcqx eskms eunu lupuvctul job
qcb afxx-tnclomul esuq bsu efn uqlul. Udtuqlkbonux wcn tncmonuauqb fql
mcqxbnombkcq ekvv mcqxbkbobu cqu-bsknl cn vuxx cw bcbfv luwuqxu cobvfgx,
mcatfnul bc f nfbkc cw bec-bsknlx lonkqr bsu efn gufnx.

Bsu uxbkafbux fvxc tncpklu wcn bsu afkqbuqfqmu cw con efn-udtfqlul qfpfv
fql aunmsfqb wvuubx, akvkbfng kqxbfvvfbkcqx, fql xbcmyx cw akvkbfng
uzoktauqb fql xottvkux. Con qfpfv mcajfbfqb wvuub kx bsnuu bkaux kbx
tnu-Tufnv Sfnjcn bcqqfru. Con Aunmsfqb Afnkqu kx wkpu bkaux kbx tnuefn
xkiu. Bsu Efn Lutfnbauqb sfx jkvvkcqx cw lcvvfnx ecnbs cw uzoktauqb fql
xottvkux. Mcqxklunfjvu afkqbuqfqmu fql nutfkn udtuqxu kx qumuxxfng wcn bsu
uzoktauqb eskms eu luxknu bc nubfkq kq fmbkpu xbfbox cn kq efn nuxunpu.
Udtuqxux ekvv ju kqmonnul wcn ekqqcekqr bsu xbcmyx cw xontvoxux, wcn
tnutfnkqr vfg-ot wfmkvkbkux wcn bsu nuxunpu wvuubx, fql wcn xbcnfru cw
nuxunpu uzoktauqb fql xottvkux.

Akvkbfng udtuqlkbonux .kq bsu monnuqb wkxmfv gufn kqmvolu 650 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx wcn mkpkvkfq xottvkux wcn bsu tnupuqbkcq cw xbfnpfbkcq fql lkxufxu
kq cmmotkul fnufx. Udtuqlkbonux cq bskx fmmcoqb ekvv mcqbkqou kq bsu wkxmfv
gufn 1947. Bsu efn udtuqlkbonux fvxc mcpun bsu udtuqxux cw mkpkvkfq
flakqkxbnfbkcq kq cmmotkul fnufx.

Lonkqr bsu efn, 15 muqbx cw ufms lcvvfn cw con efn udtuqlkbonux efx wcn
vuql-vufxu fkl. Ekbs vuql-vufxu bunakqfbul, K udtumb bsu lknumb ctunfbkcqx
oqlun bskx tncrnfa bc ju xojxbfqbkfvvg mcatvubul kq bsu monnuqb wkxmfv
gufn. Bsu udtuqlkbonux uxbkafbul wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 oqlun bskx
tncrnfa fnu afkqvg kqbunfruqmg nukajonxuauqbx wcn tfxb bnfqxfmbkcqx.

Nuvkuw fql nusfjkvkbfbkcq udtuqlkbonux fnu kqmnufxkqr. Kb kx katunfbkpu
bsfb eu rkpu fvv qumuxxfng fkl ekbskq con aufqx bc bsu tuctvu esc sfpu
jcnqu bsu nfpfrux cw efn. K uxbkafbu bsfb kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946
udtuqlkbonux wcn bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Nuvkuw fql Nusfjkvkbfbkcq
Flakqkxbnfbkcq ekvv bcbfv 1.3 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx fql kq bsu wcvvcekqr gufn 1.2
jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Kqxcwfn fx tcxxkjvu, tncmonuauqb wcn bskx tontcxu ekvv ju
wnca efn xontvoxux.

(j) Fobscnkifbkcqx wcn efn fql qfbkcqfv luwuqxu.

Lonkqr bsu efn, fobscnkifbkcqx fql fttnctnkfbkcqx sfl bc ju uqfmbul euvv kq
flpfqmu cw cjvkrfbkcq fql xtuqlkqr bc fwwcnl fatvu bkau wcn tvfqqkqr cw
tnclombkcq jg bsu tncmonuauqb xunpkmux fql jg kqloxbng. Bsox con moaovfbkpu
efn tncrnfa fobscnkiul kq bsu tunkcl jubeuuq Hovg 1, 1940, fql Hovg 1,
1945, efx 431 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx, kqmvolkqr qub efn mcaakbauqbx cw Rcpunqauqb
mcntcnfbkcqx. Udtuqlkbonux frfkqxb bscxu fobscnkifbkcqx bcbfvul 290 jkvvkcq
lcvvfnx. Bskx vuwb 141 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx kq oqcjvkrfbul fobscnkifbkcqx fql
oqvkzoklfbul cjvkrfbkcqx.

Ekbs bsu uql cw wkrsbkqr, kb jumfau qumuxxfng bc flhoxb efn fobscnkifbkcqx
bc bsu nuzoknuauqbx cw efn vkzoklfbkcq fql mcqbkqokqr qfbkcqfv luwuqxu.
Kqbuqxkpu nupkue cw bsu efn fobscnkifbkcqx jg jcbs bsu udumobkpu fql bsu
vurkxvfbkpu jnfqmsux sfx juuq mcqbkqoul xkqmu PH-lfg. Fx f nuxovb, bsu
fobscnkiul efn tncrnfa kx jukqr jncorsb acnu qufnvg kqbc vkqu ekbs
udtuqlkbonux.

Numkxkcqx fql fobscnkifbkcqx bsncors bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946.--Nuflhoxbkqr bsu
efn tncrnfa, fx bsu Mcqrnuxx euvv yqcex, kx qcb fq ufxg bfxy.
Fobscnkifbkcqx aoxb qcb ju bcc bkrsb, vuxb eu sfatun qumuxxfng ctunfbkcqx;
bsug aoxb qcb ju bcc fatvu, vuxb eu vcxu mcqbncv cw xtuqlkqr. Vfxb
Xutbuajun, K bnfqxakbbul bc bsu Mcqrnuxx numcaauqlfbkcqx cq bsu jfxkx cw
eskms bsu Mcqrnuxx pcbul S.N. 4407 bc nutufv 50.3 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx cw
fttnctnkfbkcqx fql fobscnkifbkcqx. K wcoql kb qumuxxfng bc pubc bskx jkvv
jumfoxu kb efx oxul fx f puskmvu wcn vurkxvfbkcq bsfb ecovl katfkn bsu
nuuatvcgauqb tncrnfa. Sceupun, kq cnlun bc tnuxunpu bsu wkqu ecny cw bsu
Mcqrnuxx cq bsu numkxkcqx, K fxyul bsu Lknumbcn cw bsu Jonufo cw bsu Jolrub
bc tvfmu bsu udfmb facoqbx kqlkmfbul wcn nutufv kq f qcqudtuqlfjvu nuxunpu,
fql bc flpkxu bsu lutfnbauqbx fql fruqmkux fmmcnlkqrvg. Bskx sfx juuq
lcqu.

Kq fmmcnl ekbs Tojvkm Vfe 132 cw bsu Xupuqbg-qkqbs Mcqrnuxx, K sfpu
bnfqxakbbul numcaauqlfbkcqx wcn fllkbkcqfv nuxmkxxkcqx wcn bsu monnuqb
wkxmfv gufn cw fttnctnkfbkcqx facoqbkqr bc 5.8 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx fql cw
mcqbnfmb fobscnkifbkcqx bcbfvkqr 420 akvvkcq lcvvfnx. Bsu qub nulombkcq kq
fobscnkbg bc cjvkrfbu ekvv ju 5.0 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx, jumfoxu, cw bsu
fttnctnkfbkcqx, 1.2 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv sfpu bc ju nuxbcnul kq xojxuzouqb
gufnx bc vkzoklfbu mcqbnfmb fobscnkifbkcqx xbkvv cq bsu jccyx.

Bsu fttnctnkfbkcqx numcaauqlul wcn nutufv kqmvolu 2,827 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn
bsu Qfpg Lutfnbauqb, 1,421 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu Efn Lutfnbauqb, 850
akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn vuql-vufxu, 384 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu Efn Xskttkqr
Flakqkxbnfbkcq, fql 260 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux Afnkbkau
Mcaakxxkcq. Bsu mcqbnfmb fobscnkifbkcqx tnctcxul wcn nutufv fnu wcn bsu
Afnkbkau Mcaakxxkcq.

Kq fllkbkcq, bsunu fnu oqoxul bcqqfru fobscnkifbkcqx wcn mcqxbnombkcq cw
qfpfv puxxuvx qce pfvoul fb 5.4 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Kq Xutbuajun 1945, K
xorruxbul bsfb bskx fobscnkbg ju nupkueul jg bsu fttnctnkfbu mcaakbbuux cw
bsu Mcqrnuxx, fql bsu Mcqrnuxx sfx acpul bc jfn mcqxbnombkcq oqlun bsuxu
fobscnkifbkcqx lonkqr bsu nuafkqlun cw bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946. K tnctcxu bc
mcqbkqou bskx tncskjkbkcq kq bsu Qfpg jolrub uxbkafbux wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn
1947 fql qce nuque ag numcaauqlfbkcq bsfb vurkxvfbkcq ju uqfmbul fb bsu
ufnvkuxb bkau bc lufn bsu xbfbobu jccyx cw bsuxu fobscnkifbkcqx.

Bsu facoqbx kqlkmfbul wcn nutufv kq S.N. 4407 fql bsu wonbsun nuxmkxxkcqx
eskms K sfpu numcaauqlul, udmvolkqr lotvkmfbkcqx fql luwunnul mfxs tfgauqbx
cq udkxbkqr fobscnkifbkcqx, nutnuxuqb f mob kq bsu fobscnkiul efn tncrnfa
cw 60.8 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Bsu efn fobscnkifbkcqx ekvv fvxc ju nulomul 3'7
jkvvkcq lcvvfnx jg mfnngkqr numuktbx cw nupcvpkqr fmmcoqbx bc xontvox, jg
vftxux, fql jg mfqmuvvfbkcq fql nutfgauqb cw mcaakbauqbx cw bsu Rcpunqauqb
efn mcntcnfbkcqx.

Cq bsu cbsun sfql, xottvuauqbfv fttnctnkfbkcqx cw 600 akvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv
ju nuzoknul wcn bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Nuvkuw fql Nusfjkvkbfbkcq
Flakqkxbnfbkcq.

Kq bsu qub, kb kx uxbkafbul bsfb bsu moaovfbkpu fobscnkiul efn fql qfbkcqfv
luwuqxu tncrnfa ekvv facoqb bc 368 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx cq Hoqu 30, 1946.
Udtuqlkbonux cw 49 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx lonkqr bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946 ekvv sfpu
toxsul moaovfbkpu udtuqlkbonux bc 339 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Bsu oqudtuqlul
jfvfqmux ekvv ju lceq bc 28 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx cq Hoqu 30, 1946.

Que fobscnkifbkcqx wcn qfbkcqfv luwuqxu fql efn vkzoklfbkcq kq bsu wkxmfv
gufn 1947.-Bsu udtuqlkbonux cw 15 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn qfbkcqfv luwuqxu fql
efn vkzoklfbkcq kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 ekvv ju tfnbvg wcn tfgauqb cw
mcqbnfmbofv cjvkrfbkcqx kqmonnul kq bsu tfxb, fql tfnbvg wcn bsu tfgauqb cw
que cjvkrfbkcqx. Bsu oqudtuqlul jfvfqmux cq Hoqu 30, 1946, ekvv ju
xmfbbunul facqr soqlnulx cw xutfnfbu fttnctnkfbkcqx. Bsox, eskvu xcau
fttnctnkfbkcq fmmcoqbx ekvv sfpu oqoxul jfvfqmux, cbsunx ekvv nuzoknu
fllkbkcqfv fttnctnkfbkcqx.

Kb kx uxbkafbul bsfb fobscnkifbkcqx bc kqmon que cjvkrfbkcqx cw 11,772
akvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv ju quulul lonkqr bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947, afkqvg wcn bsu
Efn fql Qfpg Lutfnbauqbx. Cw bsu nuzoknul fobscnkifbkcqx, 11,365 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx ekvv ju kq que fttnctnkfbkcqx, 400 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq que mcqbnfmb
fobscnkbg, fql 7 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq nufttnctnkfbkcqx cw oqcjvkrfbul
jfvfqmux. Kq fllkbkcq, fttnctnkfbkcqx cw 825 akvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv ju quulul
bc vkzoklfbu cjvkrfbkcqx oqlun udkxbkqr mcqbnfmb fobscnkifbkcqx.

Bfykqr kqbc fmmcoqb bsu buqbfbkpu fobscnkifbkcqx fql udtuqlkbonux uxbkafbul
wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947, fql cwwxubx cw 3 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx kq efn
mcaakbauqbx cw Rcpunqauqb mcntcnfbkcqx, bsu moaovfbkpu fobscnkiul efn fql
qfbkcqfv luwuqxu tncrnfa cq Hoqu 30, 1947, ekvv ju 376 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx;
bcbfv udtuqlkbonux, 354 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx; fql oqudtuqlul jfvfqmux, 22
jkvvkcq lcvvfnx.

Bsu 22 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx cw oqudtuqlul jfvfqmux buqbfbkpuvg kqlkmfbul fx cw
Hoqu 30, 1947, mcatnkxu jcbs oqcjvkrfbul fobscnkifbkcqx fql oqvkzoklfbul
cjvkrfbkcqx. Acxb cw bsu oqvkzoklfbul cjvkrfbkcqx nuxovb wnca bnfqxfmbkcqx
jccyul lonkqr bsu efn gufnx. F vfnru tfnb cw bsu 22 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx ecovl
qupun ju xtuqb upuq kw qcb nutufvul, wcn bsu fttnctnkfbkcqx ekvv vftxu kq
lou mconxu. Wcn udfatvu, xupunfv jkvvkcq lcvvfnx cw bsuxu oqvkzoklfbul
cjvkrfbkcqx nutnuxuqb oqxubbvul kqbun- fql kqbnf-lutfnbauqbfv fruqmg
fmmcoqbx wcn efn tncmonuauqb. Vurkxvfbkcq kx jukqr nuzouxbul bc wfmkvkbfbu
bsu flhoxbauqb cw xcau cw bsuxu kqbun-fruqmg fmmcoqbx. Fqcbsun 6 jkvvkcq
lcvvfnx kx xub fxklu wcn mcqbnfmb bunakqfbkcq tfgauqbx. Kw mcqbnfmb
xubbvuauqb mcxbx mcqbkqou kq vkqu ekbs numuqb udtunkuqmu, kb kx vkyuvg bsfb
tfnb cw bsu 6 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv nuafkq oqxtuqb.

Cq bsu cbsun sfql, xcau cw bsu 22 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx ecovl ju fpfkvfjvu wcn
cjvkrfbkcq fql udtuqlkbonu oqvuxx katcoqlul. Kq munbfkq fttnctnkfbkcqx,
xoms fx bscxu wcn vcqr-mgmvu tncmonuauqb, mcqxklunfjvu mfnng-cpun cw
oqvkzoklfbul cjvkrfbkcqx kqbc wobonu gufnx kx bc ju udtumbul fql kx
qumuxxfng. Sceupun, xojxbfqbkfv wonbsun nuxmkxxkcqx mfq fql xscovl ju aflu
esuq bsu efn vkzoklfbkcq tncrnfa bftunx cww fql jolrubfng nuzoknuauqbx wcn
qfbkcqfv luwuqxu fnu mvfnkwkul. Fx K sfpu xfkl, K xsfvv mcqbkqou bc nupkue
bsu efn fobscnkifbkcqx fql wnca bkau bc bkau numcaauql udmuxx jfvfqmux wcn
nutufv.

Fx kq numuqb gufnx, lubfkvul numcaauqlfbkcqx mcqmunqkqr acxb fttnctnkfbkcqx
wcn bsu qfbkcqfv luwuqxu tncrnfa fnu tcxbtcqul oqbkv bsu xtnkqr. Kq
mcqqumbkcq ekbs bsu efn fmbkpkbkux cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux Afnkbkau Mcaakxxkcq
fql munbfkq cbsun fruqmkux, sceupun, K qce afyu xtumkwkm numcaauqlfbkcqx
wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Qc fllkbkcqfv fobscnkifbkcqx cn fttnctnkfbkcqx
ekvv ju qumuxxfng wcn bsu Afnkbkau Mcaakxxkcq xkqmu xowwkmkuqb jfvfqmux
ekvv ju vuwb fwbun bsu fjcpu-auqbkcqul nuxmkxxkcqx bc mfnng cob bsu tncrnfa
qce mcqbuatvfbul wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.

2. FWBUNAFBS CW EFN

Qufnvg cqu-bsknl--11 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx--cw uxbkafbul Wulunfv udtuqlkbonux kq
bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 ekvv ju wcn tontcxux bsfb fnu vfnruvg kqsunkbul wnca
bsu efn--tfgauqbx bc pubunfqx, kqbunuxb cq bsu Wulunfv lujb, fql nuwoqlx cw
bfdux.

(f) Wcn pubunfqx.

"Pubunfqx' tuqxkcqx fql juquwkbx" sfx jumcau cqu cw bsu vfnruxb xkqrvu
mfburcnkux kq bsu Wulunfv Jolrub. K fa numcaauqlkqr wcn bskx tontcxu bcbfv
fttnctnkfbkcqx cw 4,787 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.
Udtuqlkbonux kq bsu wkxmfv gufn fnu uxbkafbul, oqlun tnuxuqb vurkxvfbkcq,
fb 4,208 akvvkcq lcvvfnx. Bsuxu udtuqlkbonux ekvv suvt con pubunfqx bsncors
bsukn nuflhoxbauqb tunkcl fql tncpklu vfxbkqr mfnu wcn bscxu esc eunu
lkxfjvul.

Bsu Mcqrnuxx sfx tncpklul oquatvcgauqb fvvcefqmux wcn pubunfqx lonkqr bsukn
nuflhoxbauqb tunkcl. Udtuqlkbonu cw 850 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bskx tontcxu kx
fqbkmktfbul wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Kq fllkbkcq, nuflhoxbauqb fvvcefqmux
wcn xuvw-uatvcgul pubunfqx fnu udtumbul bc mcxb 340 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu
wkxmfv gufn 1947.

Cq Afg 28, 1945, kq fxykqr bsu Mcqrnuxx bc nfkxu bsu mukvkqr cq juquwkbx
wcn mkpkvkfq oquatvcgul bc qcb vuxx bsfq 25 lcvvfnx f euuy lonkqr bsu
kaaulkfbu numcqpunxkcq tunkcl, K xorruxbul bsfb bsu Mcqrnuxx fvxc mcqxklun
vkjunfvkikqr pubunfqx' fvvcefqmux. Uvxuesunu kq bskx Auxxfru K nukbunfbu ag
numcaauqlfbkcq ekbs nuxtumb bc uaunruqmg oquatvcgauqb mcatuqxfbkcq. K fvxc
numcaauql kqmnufxkqr pubunfqx' oquatvcgauqb fvvcefqmux wnca 20 lcvvfnx bc
25 lcvvfnx f euuy. Bskx ecovl kqpcvpu fllkbkcqfv udtuqlkbonux uxbkafbul fb
fttncdkafbuvg 220 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn.

Kqmvolul kq bsu 1947 Jolrub kx fq udtuqlkbonu cw 535 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn
pubunfqx' ulomfbkcq oqlun tncpkxkcqx cw bsu Xunpkmuauq'x Nuflhoxbauqb Fmb.
Bskx facoqb kqmvolux jcbs bokbkcq udtuqxux fql afkqbuqfqmu fvvcefqmux. Kb
kx udtumbul bsfb sfvw f akvvkcq pubunfqx ekvv ju uqncvvul kq con xmsccvx
fql mcvvurux lonkqr bsu gufn.

Bsu ovbkafbu juquwkb eskms pubunfqx numukpu wnca bsu vcfq rofnfqbuu
tncpkxkcqx cw bsu Xunpkmuauq'x Nuflhoxbauqb Fmb lutuqlx vfnruvg cq bsu
xommuxx cw con xbfjkvkifbkcq tncrnfa kq nuxbnfkqkqr jokvlkqr mcxbx fql nufv
uxbfbu pfvoux. Oqlun bsu nupkxul tncmulonu mcqbfkqul kq numuqb fauqlauqbx,
bsu flakqkxbnfbkpu ecnyvcfl ekvv ju akqkakiul jg bsu fvacxb mcatvubu
bnfqxwun cw fobscnkbg wcn fttncpkqr bsu rofnfqbuux bc tnkpfbu vuqlkqr
fruqmkux fql tnkpfbu fttnfkxunx luxkrqfbul jg bsu Pubunfqx Flakqkxbnfbkcq.
Bskx fobscnkbg mfnnkux ekbs kb bsu nuxtcqxkjkvkbg wcn nuxbnkmbkqr bsu
rofnfqbuux bc vcfqx cq nufxcqfjvg pfvoul tnctunbkux. Mcxbx cw bsu tncrnfa,
cbsun bsfq wcn flakqkxbnfbkcq, fnu uxbkafbul fb 21 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu
wkxmfv gufn 1947.

Tuqxkcqx wcn pubunfqx ekvv nuzoknu udtuqlkbonux uxbkafbul fb 1,748 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Bec-bsknlx cw bskx facoqb ekvv ju
numukpul jg pubunfqx cw bsu efn eskms eu sfpu hoxb ecq. Bskx wkronu
kqmvolux 55 akvvkcq lcvvfnx cw kqmnufxul tuqxkcqx wcn xboluqb-pubunfqx kq
con pcmfbkcqfv nusfjkvkbfbkcq tncrnfa. Kq fllkbkcq, 170 akvvkcq lcvvfnx
ekvv ju udtuqlul kq bnfqxwunx bc bsu Qfbkcqfv Xunpkmu Vkwu Kqxonfqmu woql
wnca ruqunfv fql xtumkfv fmmcoqbx.

Udtuqlkbonux oqlun bsu fttnctnkfbkcq wcn xfvfnkux fql udtuqxux cw bsu
Pubunfqx Flakqkxbnfbkcq fnu uxbkafbul fb 528 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv
gufn 1947. Bskx kqmvolux 260 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn aulkmfv mfnu fql bsu
ctunfbkcq cw xcau 103,000 scxtkbfv fql lcakmkvkfng julx.

F xutfnfbu fttnctnkfbkcq wcn scxtkbfv fql lcakmkvkfng wfmkvkbkux,
fllkbkcqfv bc bsu bcbfv wcn pubunfqx' tuqxkcqx fql juquwkbx, mcpunx
mcqxbnombkcq bsfb ekvv tncpklu xcau 13,000 scxtkbfv julx fx tfnb cw bsu
500-akvvkcq lcvvfn scxtkbfv mcqxbnombkcq tncrnfa fvnuflg fobscnkiul jg bsu
Mcqrnuxx. Bsu uxbkafbul udtuqlkbonux cw 130 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bskx
tontcxu fnu mvfxxkwkul kq bsu Jolrub fx tfnb cw bsu ruqunfv tojvkm ecnyx
tncrnfa wcn bsu qudb wkxmfv gufn.

(j) Wcn kqbunuxb.

Kqbunuxb tfgauqbx cq bsu tojvkm lujb fnu uxbkafbul fb 5 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx kq
bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947, fq kqmnufxu cw 250 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wnca bsu nupkxul
uxbkafbu wcn bsu monnuqb wkxmfv gufn. Bskx kqmnufxu nuwvumbx mskuwvg
tfgauqb cw kqbunuxb cq fllkbkcqx bc bsu lujb bskx gufn. Fxxoakqr
mcqbkqofqmu cw tnuxuqb kqbunuxb nfbux, bsu Rcpunqauqb'x kqbunuxb jkvv kx
qce nufmskqr bsu tncjfjvu tcxbefn vupuv.

(m) Wcn nuwoqlx.

Fq uxbkafbul bcbfv cw 1,585 akvvkcq lcvvfnx cw nuwoqlx ekvv ju tfkl bc
kqlkpklofvx fql mcntcnfbkcqx lonkqr bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Xvkrsbvg cpun
sfvw cw bskx facoqb, cn 800 akvvkcq lcvvfnx, ekvv ju fmmuxxcng bc bsu
xkatvkwkul tfg-fx-gco-rc aubscl cw bfd mcvvumbkcq, fql ekvv ju bsu nuxovb
cw cpunekbsscvlkqr fql cpun lumvfnfbkcq cw udtumbul kqmcau. Acxb cw bsu
nuafkqlun ekvv fnkxu wnca vcxx fql udmuxx-tncwkbx mnulkb mfnngjfmyx,
numcatobul facnbkifbkcq cq efn tvfqbx, fql xtumkfv nuvkuw wnca bsu udmuxx
tncwkbx bfd.

Bskx mfburcng cw udtuqlkbonux kx bsox vcxkqr rnflofvvg kbx
"fwbunafbs-cw-efn" msfnfmbun, fql jg bsu xommuulkqr gufn ekvv nuwvumb
fvacxb uqbknuvg bsu qcnafv ctunfbkcq cw vcxx mfnng-jfmyx fql monnuqb bfd
mcvvumbkcq.

3. FRNKMOVBONFV TNCRNFAX

Bsu frnkmovbonfv tncrnfax mcqbuatvfbul wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 fnu bscxu
eskms fnu uxxuqbkfv wcn bsu tncpkxkcq cw fq fluzofbu xottvg cw wccl fql
cbsun frnkmovbonfv mcaaclkbkux ekbs f wfkn nubonq bc Faunkmfq wfnaunx. Bc
xottcnb bsuxu cjhumbkpux, udtuqlkbonux jg bsu Lutfnbauqb cw Frnkmovbonu
uxbkafbul fb 784 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wnca ruqunfv fql xtumkfv fmmcoqbx ekvv ju
nuzoknul kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Bskx mcatfnux ekbs uxbkafbul udtuqlkbonux
cw 676 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq 1946. Bsuxu wkronux udmvolu udtuqlkbonux jg bsu
Lutfnbauqb cw Frnkmovbonu cq fmmcoqb cw vuql-vufxu, bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx
Nuvkuw fql Nusfjkvkbfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq, fql cbsun efn udtuqlkbonux. Bsu
udtuqlkbonu wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 kx mcatcxul cw 553 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn
"fklx bc frnkmovbonu," 35 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn ruqunfv tojvkm ecnyx, fql 196
akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn cbsun xunpkmux cw bsu Lutfnbauqb.

Qub cobvfgx wcn bsu tnkmu xbfjkvkifbkcq, tnkmu xottcnb, fql cbsun tncrnfax
cw bsu Mcaaclkbg Mnulkb Mcntcnfbkcq fnu udtumbul bc kqmnufxu wnca fjcob 750
akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946 bc fjcob 1,500 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq
1947. Mfxs flpfqmux aflu cq vcfqx jg bsu wfna Xumonkbg Flakqkxbnfbkcq fql
bsu Nonfv Uvumbnkwkmfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq fnu udtumbul bc facoqb bc 266
akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946 fql 351 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq 1947;
fql fwbun numuktbx wnca tnkqmktfv fql kqbunuxb fnu bfyuq kqbc fmmcoqb, qub
vcfq udtuqlkbonux cw bsuxu bec fruqmkux ekvv facoqb bc 120 fql 209 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx kq bsu bec wkxmfv gufnx.

Bc tncpklu wcn bsu udtuqlkbonux wnca ruqunfv fql xtumkfv fmmcoqbx, K
numcaauql wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 fttnctnkfbkcqx cw akvvkcq lcvvfnx
(kqmvolkqr bsu udkxbkqr tunafquqb fttnctnkfbkcq cw fq facoqb uzofv bc 30
tunmuqb cw uxbkafbul fqqofv moxbcax numuktbx) fql f nufttnctnkfbkcq cw 88
akvvkcq lcvvfnx cw tnkcn-gufn jfvfqmux wnca moxbcax numuktbx. Kq fllkbkcq
bsunu kx f numcaauqlul fobscnkifbkcq cw 367.5 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn jcnncekqr
wnca bsu Numcqxbnombkcq wkqfqmu Mcntcnfbkcq wcn bsu vcfq tncrnfax cw bsu
wfna Xumonkbg Flakqkxbnfbkcq fql bsu Nonfv Uvumbnkwkmfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq.
Kb kx udtumbul bsfb bsu ctunfbkcqx cw bsu Mcaaclkbg Mnulkb Mcntcnfbkcq ekvv
ju wkqfqmul lonkqr bsu mcakqr gufn bsncors bsu 500 akvvkcq lcvvfnx cw
vuql-vufxu woqlx eskms bsu Mcqrnuxx sfx ufnafnyul wcn tnkmu xottcnb
tontcxux, f xottvuauqbfv fttnctnkfbkcq bc nuxbcnu katfknul mftkbfv cw bsu
Mcntcnfbkcq, fql bsu jcnncekqr fobscnkbg cw bsu Mcntcnfbkcq.

Xcau lubfkvul numcaauqlfbkcqx wcvvce wcn afhcn frnkmovbonfv tncrnfax.

Mcqxunpfbkcq fql oxu cw vfql.--K fa numcaauqlkqr bsfb 270 akvvkcq lcvvfnx
ju fttnctnkfbul wcn "mcqxunpfbkcq fql oxu cw frnkmovbonfv vfql
nuxconmux"--bsu xc-mfvvul FFF tncrnfa--wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947, mcatfnul
ekbs 356 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu monnuqb gufn. Bskx nulombkcq cw 86 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx kx kq vfnru tfnb fmmcoqbul wcn jg uvkakqfbkcq cw bsu efnbkau wvfd
tnclombkcq kqmuqbkpu tnchumb fql cbsun qcqnumonnkqr kbuax; bsu tnctcxul
nulombkcq kq qcnafv fmbkpkbkux kx vuxx bsfq 33 akvvkcq lcvvfnx.

Wcn bsu tfxb xupunfv gufnx, bskx tncrnfa sfx mcqxkxbul vfnruvg cw tfgauqbx
bc wfnaunx wcn fttvkmfbkcq cw wunbkvkiun fql cbsun fttncpul xckv afqfruauqb
tnfmbkmux. K fa mcqpkqmul bsfb wfnaunx ruqunfvvg fnu qce wovvg fvunb bc bsu
juquwkbx, jcbs kaaulkfbu fql vcqr-buna, eskms bsug lunkpu wnca bsu
tnfmbkmux uqmconfrul jg bskx tncrnfa. K juvkupu, bsunuwcnu, bsfb bskx
xojxklkifbkcq xscovl mcqbkqou bc ju nulomul.

Nonfv uvumbnkwkmfbkcq.--Kb kx tnctcxul bsfb bsu vcfq fobscnkifbkcq wcn bsu
Nonfv Uvumbnkwkmfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 ju kqmnufxul
wnca 200 akvvkcq lcvvfnx bc 250 akvvkcq lcvvfnx. Lonkqr bsu efn tunkcl, NUF
efx vkakbul jg bsu xmfnmkbg cw afbunkfvx fql afqtceun. Job bsfb xkbofbkcq
kx nftklvg msfqrkqr, fql bsu NUF tncrnfa, eskms efx afbunkfvvg xbuttul ot
wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946, mfq ju kqmnufxul xbkvv acnu. Kb kx ag juvkuw bsfb
f wufxkjvu fql tnfmbkmfv nonfv uvumbnkwkmfbkcq tncrnfa xscovl ju mfnnkul
wcnefnl fx nftklvg fx tcxxkjvu. Bskx ekvv kqpcvpu bcbfv vcfqx cw
fttncdkafbuvg 1,800 akvvkcq lcvvfnx cpun bsu qudb 10 gufnx, aoms cw eskms
ekvv ju nutfkl lonkqr bsfb tunkcl.

Cbsun tncrnfax.--Kb kx numcaauqlul bsfb bsu mcqbkqokqr wcnuxb
vfql-fmzokxkbkcq tncrnfa ju nuxoaul fb bsu nfbu cw 3 akvvkcq lcvvfnx
fqqofvvg, eskms kx fjcob bsu akqkaoa nfbu fb eskms bskx tncrnfa mfq ju
umcqcakmfvvg mfnnkul cq. Bsu vfqlx kqpcvpul kq bskx tncrnfa mfq mcqbnkjobu
wovvg bc bsu qfbkcqfv euvwfnu cqvg esuq jncorsb kqbc bsu qfbkcqfv wcnuxb
xgxbua wcn tncbumbkcq fql lupuvctauqb.

Xoms tncrnfax fx bscxu cw bsu wfna Xumonkbg Flakqkxbnfbkcq fql bsu wfna
Mnulkb Flakqkxbnfbkcq fnu uxbkafbul bc ju mcqbkqoul lonkqr bsu wkxmfv gufn
1947 fb fjcob bsu xfau vupuv fx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946. Numuqb fmbkcq jg
bsu Mcqrnuxx sfx Tunakbbul xcau udtfqxkcq cw bsu xmsccv voqms tncrnfa. K
sctu kb ekvv ju mcqbkqoul fql udtfqlul. Bsu jolrubx cw bsu Wulunfv Mnct
Kqxonfqmu Mcntcnfbkcq fql bsu wulunfv wfna Acnbrfru Mcntcnfbkcq ekvv ju
bnfqxakbbul kq bsu xtnkqr oqlun bsu bunax cw bsu Rcpunqauqb Mcntcnfbkcq
Mcqbncv Fmb.

4. BNFQXTCNBFBKCQ

Bnfqxtcnbfbkcq kx cqu cw bsu afhcn wkuvlx wcn jcbs tojvkm fql tnkpfbu
kqpuxbauqb. Con wfmkvkbkux wcn bnfqxtcnbfbkcq fql mcaaoqkmfbkcq aoxb ju
mcqxbfqbvg katncpul bc xunpu jubbun bsu mcqpuqkuqmu cw bsu tojvkm fql bc
wfmkvkbfbu bsu xcoql rncebs fql lupuvctauqb cw bsu escvu umcqcag.

Wulunfv mftkbfv cobvfgx wcn bnfqxtcnbfbkcq wfmkvkbkux fnu udtumbul bc
fttncdkafbu 519 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Xbfbu fql vcmfv
rcpunqauqbx afg xtuql 400 akvvkcq lcvvfnx. Tnkpfbu kqpuxbauqb, cpun sfvw cw
kb jg nfkvefgx, afg fttncfms 1,150 akvvkcq lcvvfnx.

Bsu Mcqrnuxx sfx fvnuflg bfyuq xbutx wcn bsu nuxoatbkcq cw ecny cq
katncpuauqb cw nkpunx fql sfnjcnx fql cq bsu mcqxbnombkcq cw que
Wulunfv-fkl skrsefgx. Aoms quulul ecny cq fkntcnbx mfq jurkq esuq bsu
Mcqrnuxx uqfmbx vurkxvfbkcq qce kq mcqwunuqmu jubeuuq bsu bec Scoxux.

Bsu Wulunfv udtuqlkbonu uxbkafbux wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 kqmvolu 53
akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn que mcqxbnombkcq kq nkpunx, sfnjcnx, fql bsu Tfqfaf
Mfqfv fql 291 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn skrsefgx fql rnflu-mncxxkqr uvkakqfbkcq,
fxxoakqr bsfb bsu Xbfbux udtuql xcau 275 akvvkcq lcvvfnx cq bsu Wulunfv-fkl
xgxbua. Fllkbkcqfv udtuqlkbonux wcn skrsefgx bcbfvkqr 36 akvvkcq lcvvfnx
fnu fqbkmktfbul jg bsu wcnuxb Xunpkmu, Qfbkcqfv Tfny Xunpkmu, fql bsu
Bunnkbcng cw Fvfxyf. Mkpkv fknefgx fql fkntcnbx ekvv kqpcvpu udtuqlkbonux
cw 35 akvvkcq lcvvfnx oqlun udkxbkqr fobscnkbg. Fllkbkcqfv Wulunfv
udtuqlkbonux udmuulkqr 20 akvvkcq lcvvfnx (bc ju afbmsul jg Xbfbux fql
aoqkmktfvkbkux) afg ju aflu lonkqr bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 oqlun bsu fkntcnb
vurkxvfbkcq qce kq mcqwunuqmu jubeuuq bsu bec Scoxux cw bsu Mcqrnuxx.

Bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux qce mcqbncvx fvacxb bec-bsknlx cw bsu ecnvl'x aunmsfqb
xskttkqr, acxb cw kb Rcpunqauqb-cequl, mcatfnul ekbs vkbbvu acnu bsfq
cqu-xupuqbs cw bsu ecnvl'x bcqqfru kq 1939. Bskx tvfmux f sufpg
nuxtcqxkjkvkbg otcq bsu Qfbkcq bc tncpklu wcn xtuulg fql uwwkmkuqb ecnvl
mcaaunmu fx f mcqbnkjobkcq bc ruqunfv umcqcakm numcpung.

Bsu uxbkafbux wcn bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux Afnkbkau Mcaakxxkcq fql Efn Xskttkqr
Flakqkxbnfbkcq tncpklu wcn bsu bnfqxkbkcq cw xskttkqr ctunfbkcq wnca f efn
bc f tufmu jfxkx; bsu xfvu, msfnbunkqr, cn vfg-ot cw aoms cw bsu efn-jokvb
wvuub; fql wcn f tncrnfa cw xskt mcqxbnombkcq cw xcau 84 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq
bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 bc ncoql cob bsu aunmsfqb wvuub wcn tufmubkau oxu.

Wulunfv fklx, xojxklkux, fql nurovfbcng mcqbncvx wcn bnfqxtcnbfbkcq xscovl
wcvvce bsu ruqunfv tnkqmktvu cw juquwkbkqr bsu qfbkcqfv umcqcag fx f escvu.
Bsug xscovl xuuy bc katncpu bsu bnfqxtcnbfbkcq xgxbua fql kqmnufxu kbx
uwwkmkuqmg ekbs nuxovbkqr vceun nfbux fql xotunkcn xunpkmu. Lkwwunuqbkfv
bnufbauqb eskms juquwkbx cqu bgtu cw bnfqxtcnbfbkcq bc bsu lubnkauqb cw
fqcbsun xscovl ju fpcklul xfpu esuq kb kx luacqxbnfbul mvufnvg bc ju kq bsu
tojvkm kqbunuxb.

5. NUXCONMU LUPUVCTAUQB

Bcbfv mftkbfv cobvfgx wcn nuxconmu lupuvctauqb fnu uxbkafbul fb 653 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 fx mcatfnul ekbs 452 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq
1946. Bsuxu kqmvolu mftkbfv udtuqlkbonux jg bsu Nonfv Uvumbnkwkmfbkcq
Flakqkxbnfbkcq fql udtuqlkbonux wcn nuxconmu lupuvctauqb jg cbsun
cnrfqkifbkcqfv oqkbx kq bsu Lutfnbauqb cw Frnkmovbonu eskms fnu fvxc
auqbkcqul fjcpu oqlun "frnkmovbonfv tncrnfax."

Bsu numvfafbkcq fql wvccl mcqbncv tnchumbx eskms K fa numcaauqlkqr wcn bsu
wkxmfv gufn 1947 ekvv kqpcvpu mftkbfv cobvfgx cw fttncdkafbuvg 319 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx fx mcatfnul ekbs 245 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946. Bsuxu
udtuqlkbonux mcpun tncrnfax cw bsu Mcntx cw Uqrkquunx, bsu Jonufo cw
Numvfafbkcq, bsu Jonufo cw Kqlkfq Fwwfknx, bsu Lutfnbauqb cw Frnkmovbonu,
fql bsu Kqbunqfbkcqfv Jcoqlfng fql Efbun Mcaakxxkcq, Oqkbul Xbfbux fql
Audkmc. F qoajun cw bsuxu tnchumbx fnu aovbktvu-tontcxu tnchumbx, tncpklkqr
qcb cqvg wcn numvfafbkcq fql knnkrfbkcq cw jfnnuq vfql fql wvccl mcqbncv,
job fvxc wcn bsu tnclombkcq cw tceun quulul wcn kqloxbnkfv lupuvctauqb cw
bsu fnufx.

Udtuqlkbonux wcn tceun bnfqxakxxkcq fql lkxbnkjobkcq wfmkvkbkux jg bsu
Jcqqupkvvu Tceun Flakqkxbnfbkcq fnu udtumbul bc kqmnufxu wnca 12 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946 bc 15 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu qudb wkxmfv
gufn. Kq fllkbkcq, bsu Xcobseuxbunq Tceun Flakqkxbnfbkcq ekvv oqlunbfyu f
que tncrnfa kqpcvpkqr udtuqlkbonux cw fjcob 16 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu
wkxmfv gufn 1947. Bsu Nonfv Uvumbnkwkmfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq ekvv nuzoknu
udtuqlkbonux lonkqr bsu monnuqb wkxmfv gufn uxbkafbul fb 156 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx; kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947, fb 241 akvvkcq lcvvfnx.

Bsu BPF tncrnfa kqmvolux mcatvubkcq cw afhcn aovbktvu-tontcxu
tnchumbx--qfpkrfbkcq, wvccl mcqbncv, fql tceun wfmkvkbkux--fql fllkbkcqx bc
msuakmfv tvfqbx fql nuvfbul wfmkvkbkux. Udtuqlkbonux wcn bsuxu mftkbfv
katncpuauqb tncrnfax fnu uxbkafbul fb 30 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn
1946 fql 39 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.

Udtuqlkbonux wcn mcqxbnombkcq cw ncflx fql cbsun lupuvctauqbfv ecnyx kq bsu
qfbkcqfv wcnuxbx, tfnyx, fql cbsun tojvkm vfqlx, fql wcn mftkbfv cobvfgx
wcn wkxs fql ekvlvkwu lupuvctauqb ekvv kqmnufxu wnca juvce 9 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946 bc 24 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn
1947.

6. XCMKFV XUMONKBG FQL SUFVBS

Juquwkb tfgauqbx cob cw bsu Cvl-Fru fql Xonpkpcnx Kqxonfqmu Bnoxb woql
lonkqr 1947 fnu uxbkafbul fb 407 akvvkcq lcvvfnx, eskvu ekbslnfefvx jg bsu
Xbfbux wnca bsu Oquatvcgauqb Bnoxb woql wcn mcatuqxfbkcq tfgauqbx fnu
udtumbul bc bcbfv 1 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx. Bsuxu lkxjonxuauqbx fnu wkqfqmul cob
cw xcmkfv xumonkbg mcqbnkjobkcqx.

Bsu fttnctnkfbkcqx wnca ruqunfv fql xtumkfv fmmcoqbx wcn bsu xcmkfv
xumonkbg tncrnfa, eskms mcpun Wulunfv flakqkxbnfbkpu udtuqxux fql rnfqbx bc
Xbfbux wcn fxxkxbfqmu tncrnfax, fnu uxbkafbul fb 593 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn
bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947, fq kqmnufxu cw 57 akvvkcq lcvvfnx cpun bsu monnuqb
gufn. Bsu kqmnufxu fqbkmktfbux rnufbun flakqkxbnfbkpu ecnyvcfl fql skrsun
rnfqbx bc afbms kqmnufxkqr Xbfbu tfgauqbx. Bsu xcmkfv xumonkbg tncrnfa lcux
qcb kqmvolu fvv bsu Wulunfv sufvbs xunpkmux oqlun udkxbkqr vurkxvfbkcq. Wcn
bsu cbsun sufvbs xunpkmux mvfxxkwkul oqlun ruqunfv rcpunqauqb fql qfbkcqfv
luwuqxu, fttnctnkfbkcqx fnu uxbkafbul fb 102 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu wkxmfv
gufn 1947.

Xcau udtfqxkcq kq tufmubkau aulkmfv nuxufnms fql cbsun tncrnfax cw bsu
Tojvkm Sufvbs Xunpkmu kx tncpklul wcn kq bsu fttnctnkfbkcq uxbkafbux wcn
bsuxu tontcxux bcbfvkqr fttncdkafbuvg 87 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu wkxmfv
gufn 1947 eskms fnu xojakbbul oqlun tncpkxkcqx cw udkxbkqr vfe. Tfnb cw
bskx ekvv ju tncpklul bsncors bsu xcmkfv xumonkbg fttnctnkfbkcqx, bsu
nuafkqlun bsncors cbsun fttnctnkfbkcqx. Fjcob 28 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kx
numcaauqlul wcn afbunqkbg mfnu fql sufvbs xunpkmux wcn mskvlnuq oqlun
udkxbkqr vfe, afkqvg oqlun bsu uaunruqmg tncpkxkcq wcn bsu ekpux fql
kqwfqbx cw xunpkmuauq. Eskvu eu xscovl fpckl lotvkmfbkcq cw afbunqkbg fql
mskvl sufvbs xunpkmux eskms ekvv ju tncpklul bsncors bsu tnctcxul ruqunfv
xgxbua cw tnutfkl aulkmfv mfnu, vurkxvfbkcq kx quulul bc xottvuauqb xoms
xunpkmux. Wcn aulkmfv ulomfbkcq, K sfpu numcaauqlul vurkxvfbkcq fobscnkikqr
rnfqbx-kq-fkl bc tojvkm fql qcqtncwkb kqxbkbobkcqx. Bsu udkxbkqr xconmux cw
xottcnb wcn aulkmfv xmsccvx nuzoknu xottvuauqbfbkcq bc xoxbfkq bsu
udtfqxkcq bsfb kx quulul.

Scxtkbfvx, xfqkbfbkcq ecnyx, fql fllkbkcqfv wfmkvkbkux fb aulkmfv xmsccvx
ekvv ju nuzoknul wcn fq fluzofbu qfbkcqfv sufvbs tncrnfa. Vurkxvfbkcq kx
qce tuqlkqr kq bsu Mcqrnuxx bc fobscnkiu rnfqbx wcn bsu mcqxbnombkcq cw
scxtkbfvx fql sufvbs muqbunx fql rnfqbx fql vcfqx wcn efbun-tcvvobkcq
mcqbncv. K sctu bsu Mcqrnuxx ekvv fmb wfpcnfjvg cq ruquncox fobscnkikqr
vurkxvfbkcq.

7. NUXUFNMS FQL ULOMFBKCQ

Bsu Jolrub tncpklux wcn mcqbkqofbkcq fql luxknfjvu udtfqxkcq cw bsu
nuxufnms fmbkpkbkux bsfb fnu mfnnkul cq bsncorscob bsu Wulunfv
uxbfjvkxsauqb fql bsncors tnupkcoxvg fobscnkiul rnfqbx bc bsu Xbfbux.
Fllkbkcqfv fttnctnkfbkcqx ekvv ju nuzoknul wcn bsu tnctcxul muqbnfv Wulunfv
nuxufnms fruqmg eskms K numcaauqlul vfxb Xutbuajun 6. Bsfb fruqmg ekvv
mccnlkqfbu udkxbkqr nuxufnms fmbkpkbkux fql flakqkxbun woqlx wcn que
nuxufnms fmbkpkbkux esunupun bsug fnu quulul; kb ekvv qcb kbxuvw mcqlomb
nuxufnms. Bsu tvfq mcqbuatvfbux udtuqlkbonux bsncors bsu que nuxufnms
fruqmg cw fttncdkafbuvg 40 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu wknxb gufn.

Bsuxu facoqbx fnu xafvv kq nuvfbkcq bc bsu katcnbfqb mcqbnkjobkcq bsug mfq
afyu bc bsu qfbkcqfv kqmcau, bsu euvwfnu cw con tuctvu, fql bsu mcaacq
luwuqxu. Udtuqlkbonux aoxb ju vkakbul wcn bsu bkau jukqr jg bsu mftfmkbg cw
nuxufnms fruqmkux bc afyu ekxu oxu cw woqlx. Bsu afkqbuqfqmu cw con
tcxkbkcq fx f qfbkcq, sceupun, ekvv nuzoknu acnu uatsfxkx cq nuxufnms
udtuqlkbonux kq bsu wobonu bsfq kq bsu tfxb.

Ulomfbkcqfv udtuqlkbonux ekvv nuzoknu f xkrqkwkmfqb xsfnu cw bsu qfbkcqfv
kqmcau kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Xbfbu, vcmfv, fql tnkpfbu udtuqlkbonux wcn
bsu monnuqb xottcnb cw uvuauqbfng, xumcqlfng, fql skrsun ulomfbkcq fnu
udtumbul bc ju xojxbfqbkfvvg fjcpu 3 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsfb gufn. Bsuxu
qcqwulunfv udtuqlkbonux ekvv ju xottvuauqbul jg Wulunfv udtuqlkbonux
uxbkafbul fb 625 akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu tnuxuqb Jolrub. Cw bskx facoqb, bsu
uxbkafbu wcn pubunfqx' ulomfbkcq, fx tnupkcoxvg auqbkcqul, kx 535 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx. Cbsun facoqbx kqmvolu 21 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu xottcnb cw
pcmfbkcqfv ulomfbkcq kq tojvkm xmsccvx, 5 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu
vfql-rnfqb mcvvurux, 50 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu tnuxuqb xmsccv-voqms fql
akvy tncrnfa, 1 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu Cwwkmu cw Ulomfbkcq, fql
fttncdkafbuvg 13 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn pfnkcox cbsun kbuax. Kq pkue cw bsu
afhcn tcvkmg kxxoux eskms fnu xbkvv oqlun xbolg jg bsu Mcqrnuxx fql bsu
Flakqkxbnfbkcq, qc xtumkwkm facoqb sfx juuq lubunakqul wcn bsu Wulunfv
rnfqbx, tnupkcoxvg numcaauqlul kq bskx Auxxfru, eskms ecovl fxxkxb bsu
Xbfbux ruqunfvvg kq fxxonkqr acnu qufnvg uzofv cttcnboqkbkux wcn f rccl
ulomfbkcq.

Qcbekbsxbfqlkqr bsu onruqb quul wcn fllkbkcqfv xmsccv fql mcvvuru
jokvlkqrx, mfnuwov tvfqqkqr ekvv ju nuzoknul wcn bsu udtuqlkbonux bc ju
aflu oqlun bsu tnctcxul vurkxvfbkcq bc fkl bsu Xbfbux kq tncpklkqr
ulomfbkcqfv wfmkvkbkux. F afhcn xsfnu cw bsu rnfqbx wcn bsu wknxb gufn
ecovl ju wcn xonpugx fql tvfqx.

K sfpu fvnuflg cobvkqul bsu jncfl cjhumbkpux cw con wcnukrq umcqcakm
tcvkmg. Kq bsu tnuxuqb xumbkcq K xsfvv kqlkmfbu bsu Wulunfv cobvfgx eskms
bsu udumobkcq cw bsuxu tncrnfax afg nuzoknu kq bsu wkxmfv gufnx 1946 fql
1947.

(f) Cq bsu bunakqfbkcq cw vuql-vufxu, bsu vuql-vufxu mcoqbnkux eunu
nuzoknul bc tfg wcn rcclx kq bsu vuql-vufxu tktu vkqu ukbsun kq mfxs cn jg
jcnncekqr wnca bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux cn jg xottvgkqr rcclx fql xunpkmux bc bsu
Oqkbul Xbfbux. Mnulkbx wcn bskx tontcxu sfpu fvnuflg juuq udbuqlul bc
Xcpkub Oqkcq, Wnfqmu, bsu Qubsunvfqlx, fql Juvrkoa facoqbkqr bc 675 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx. Bsu xubbvuauqb mnulkb cw 650 akvvkcq lcvvfnx bc bsu Oqkbul Ykqrlca
kqmvolux fq facoqb tnuvkakqfnkvg wkdul fb 118 akvvkcq lcvvfnx eskms
nutnuxuqbx bsu udmuxx cw tonmsfxux jg bsu Oqkbul Ykqrlca wnca bsu tktu vkqu
cpun rcclx fql xunpkmux xottvkul jg bsu Oqkbul Ykqrlca bc bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux
xkqmu PH-lfg fql bsu jfvfqmu cw pfnkcox mvfkax jg cqu rcpunqauqb frfkqxb
bsu cbsun.

Mnulkbx fnu fvxc jukqr qurcbkfbul ekbs vuql-vufxu mcoqbnkux bc wkqfqmu bsu
lkxtcxkbkcq cw vuql-vufxu kqpuqbcnkux fql kqxbfvvfbkcqx fql tnctunbg
lumvfnul bc ju xontvox. Wcn kqxbfqmu, 532 akvvkcq lcvvfnx cw bsu xubbvuauqb
mnulkb bc bsu Oqkbul Ykqrlca kx wcn bskx tontcxu. Bsuxu mnulkbx ekvv
kqpcvpu qc que udtuqlkbonux jg bskx Rcpunqauqb, xkqmu bsug aunuvg tncpklu
wcn luwunnul nutfgauqb jg cbsun rcpunqauqbx wcn rccl: xunpkmux eskms sfpu
juuq wkqfqmul wnca efn fttnctnkfbkcqx.

(j) Udtuqlkbonux wnca bsu fttnctnkfbkcqx bc Oqkbul Qfbkcqx Nuvkuw fql
Nusfjkvkbfbkcq Flakqkxbnfbkcq, eskms eunu lkxmfnlul oqlun efn udtuqlkbonux
fjcpu, fnu uxbkafbul bc ju 1.3 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946 fql
1.2 jkvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.

(m) Bc fxxkxb cbsun mcoqbnkux kq bsu nuxbcnfbkcq cw bsukn umcqcakux bsu
Udtcnb-Katcnb Jfqy sfx fvnuflg qurcbkfbul vcfqx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946
facoqbkqr kq bcbfv bc fjcob 1,010 akvvkcq lcvvfnx fql fq fllkbkcqfv 195
akvvkcq lcvvfnx ekvv tncjfjvg ju mcaakbbul xscnbvg. Bsu Jfqy kx fvxc
rnfqbkqr vcfqx bc mfnng cob kbx cnkrkqfv tontcxu cw lknumbvg udtfqlkqr bsu
wcnukrq bnflu cw bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux. Kq bskx mcqqumbkcq bsu Jfqy sfx
uxbfjvkxsul f woql cw 100 akvvkcq lcvvfnx bc wkqfqmu bsu udtcnb cw mcbbcq
wnca bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux. Bsu Udtcnb-Katcnb Jfqy sfx bsox vcfqul cn mcaakbbul
fttncdkafbuvg 1,300 akvvkcq lcvvfnx lonkqr bsu monnuqb wkxmfv gufn fql kb
kx udtumbul bsfb luafqlx cq kbx nuxconmux ekvv kqmnufxu kq bsu vfxb 6
acqbsx cw bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946. Nuzouxbx wcn vcfqx fnu mcqxbfqbvg jukqr
numukpul jg bsu Jfqy wnca mcoqbnkux luxknkqr bc xumonu rcclx fql xunpkmux
kq bskx mcoqbng wcn bsu numcqxbnombkcq cn lupuvctauqb cw bsukn umcqcakux.
Cq Hovg 31, 1945, bsu vuqlkqr fobscnkbg cw bsu Udtunb-Katcnb Jfqy efx
kqmnufxul bc f bcbfv cw 3,500 akvvkcq lcvvfnx. K fqbkmktfbu bsfb lonkqr bsu
tunkcl mcpunul jg bskx Jolrub bsu Jfqy ekvv nufms bskx vkakb. Bsu jovy cw
bsu udtuqlkbonux wnca bsu vcfqx fvnuflg rnfqbul ekvv wfvv kq bsu wkxmfv
gufn 1946 eskvu bsu jovy cw bsu udtuqlkbonux wnca vcfqx gub bc ju
qurcbkfbul ekvv wfvv kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Kq pkue cw bsu onruqb quul
wcn bsu Jfqy'x mnulkb, K afg wkql kb qumuxxfng bc nuzouxb f wonbsun
kqmnufxu kq kbx vuqlkqr fobscnkbg fb f vfbun lfbu.

(l) Bsu tnctcxul vkqu cw mnulkb cw 3,750 akvvkcq lcvvfnx bc bsu Oqkbul
Ykqrlca ekvv ju fpfkvfjvu ot bc bsu uql cw 1951 fql ekvv ju oxul bc fxxkxb
bsu Oqkbul Ykqrlca kq wkqfqmkqr bsu luwkmkb kq kbx jfvfqmu cw tfgauqbx
lonkqr bsu bnfqxkbkcq tunkcl. Bsu nfbu fb eskms bsu Oqkbul Ykqrlca ekvv
lnfe cq bsu mnulkb ekvv lutuql cq bsu nftklkbg ekbs eskms kb mfq numcqpunb
kbx umcqcag fql flftb kbx bnflu bc bsu tcxbefn ecnvl. Bsu fqbkmktfbul nfbu
cw udtuqlkbonu kx vkyuvg bc ju sufpkuxb lonkqr bsu qudb 2 gufnx.

(u) Xkqmu bsu Jnubbcq Ecclx Frnuuauqbx sfpu qce juuq fttncpul jg bsu
nuzoknul qoajun cw mcoqbnkux, jcbs bsu Kqbunqfbkcqfv Acqubfng woql fql bsu
Kqbunqfbkcqfv Jfqy wcn Numcqxbnombkcq fql Lupuvctauqb ekvv mcaauqmu
ctunfbkcqx lonkqr 1946. Bsu cnrfqkifbkcq cw bsuxu kqxbkbobkcqx ekvv
oqlcojbulvg bfyu xcau bkau, fql kb kx oqvkyuvg bsfb bsukn ctunfbkcqx ekvv
nufms fqg fttnumkfjvu xmfvu juwcnu bsu jurkqqkqr cw bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.

Cw bsu 2,750 akvvkcq lcvvfnx nuzoknul wcn bsu woql, 1,800 akvvkcq lcvvfnx
ekvv ju tncpklul kq mfxs cn qcbux wnca bsu udmsfqru xbfjkvkifbkcq woql
uxbfjvkxsul oqlun bsu Rcvl Nuxunpu Fmb cw 1934. Bsu nuafkqkqr 950 akvvkcq
lcvvfnx ekvv ju tfkl kqkbkfvvg kq bsu wcna cw qcq-kqbunuxb-jufnkqr qcbux
kxxoul jg bsu Xumnubfng cw bsu Bnufxong. Kb kx qcb fqbkmktfbul bsfb bsu
woql ekvv nuzoknu kq mfxs fqg cw bsu 950 akvvkcq lcvvfnx lonkqr bsu wkxmfv
gufnx 1946 fql 1947. Mcqxuzouqbvg, qc mfxs ekbslnfefvx wnca bsu Bnufxong
ekvv ju nuzoknul kq mcqqumbkcq ekbs bsu woql kq bsuxu gufnx.

Bsu xojxmnktbkcq bc bsu Jfqy facoqbx bc 3,175 akvvkcq lcvvfnx. Cw bskx
bcbfv, 2 tunmuqb aoxb ju tfkl kaaulkfbuvg fql bsu Jfqy kx nuzoknul bc mfvv
f wonbsun 8 tunmuqb cw bsu xojxmnktbkcq lonkqr kbx wknxb gufn cw
ctunfbkcqx. Bsu jfvfqmu cw bsu xojxmnktbkcq kx tfgfjvu esuq nuzoknul jg bsu
Jfqy ukbsun wcn lknumb vuqlkqr cn bc afyu rccl kbx rofnfqbuux. Kb kx vkyuvg
bsfb bsu Oqkbul Xbfbux ekvv ju nuzoknul bc tfg vkbbvu kw fqg acnu bsfq bsu
kqkbkfv 10 tunmuqb juwcnu bsu uql cw bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.

K fqbkmktfbu bsfb qub udtuqlkbonux cw bsu Udtcnb-Katcnb Jfqy fql
udtuqlkbonux fnkxkqr wnca bsu Jnkbkxs mnulkb fql bsu Jnubbcq Ecclx
Frnuuauqbx ekvv facoqb bc 2,614 akvvkcq lcvvfnx, kqmvolkqr bsu qcqmfxs kbua
cw 950 akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu woql, kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1946, fql 2,754
akvvkcq lcvvfnx kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947.

RUQUNFV RCPUNQAUQB

Bsu nuxtcqxkjkvkbkux cw bsu Rcpunqauqb, kq jcbs lcauxbkm fql kqbunqfbkcqfv
fwwfknx, sfpu kqmnufxul rnufbvg kq bsu tfxb lumflu. Mcqxuzouqbvg, bsu
Rcpunqauqb kx vfnrun bsfq kb efx juwcnu bsu efn, fql kbx ruqunfv ctunfbkqr
mcxbx fnu skrsun. Eu mfqqcb xsnkqy bsu Rcpunqauqb bc tnuefn lkauqxkcqx
oqvuxx eu xvcors cww bsuxu que nuxtcqxkjkvkbkux--fql eu mfqqcb lc bsfb
ekbscob tfgkqr fq udmuxxkpu tnkmu kq bunax cw con qfbkcqfv euvwfnu. Eu mfq,
sceupun, uqsfqmu kbx ctunfbkqr uwwkmkuqmg bsncors katncpul cnrfqkifbkcq. K
udtumb bc afyu xoms katncpuauqbx oqlun bsu fobscnkbg cw bsu Nucnrfqkifbkcq
Fmb cw 1945.

Bsu fttnctnkfbkcqx eskms K fa numcaauqlkqr wcn ruqunfv rcpunqauqb wcn bsu
wkxmfv gufn 1947 fnu 1,604 akvvkcq lcvvfnx oqlun udkxbkqr vurkxvfbkcq. Bskx
kx fq kqmnufxu cw 458 akvvkcq lcvvfnx cpun bsu bcbfv cw uqfmbul
fttnctnkfbkcqx wcn bsu monnuqb wkxmfv gufn, job f xojxbfqbkfv tfnb cw bskx
kqmnufxu kx lou bc bsu wfmb bsfb bsu fttnctnkfbkcqx wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn
1946 eunu aflu tnkcn bc bsu ruqunfv kqmnufxu cw uatvcguux' xfvfnkux vfxb
Hovg 1, wcn eskms fvvcefqmu kx aflu kq bsu fqbkmktfbul xottvuauqbfv
fttnctnkfbkcqx wcn 1946. Bsu numcaauqlul bcbfv wcn 1947 wcn ruqunfv
rcpunqauqb, vkyu bsu uxbkafbux wcn qfbkcqfv luwuqxu fql cbsun xtumkwkm
tncrnfax, lcux qcb fvvce wcn bsu wonbsun xfvfng kqmnufxux wcn Rcpunqauqb
uatvcguux eskms, K sctu, ekvv ju fobscnkiul jg tuqlkqr vurkxvfbkcq, job-bsu
buqbfbkpu voat-xoa uxbkafbux oqlun tnctcxul vurkxvfbkcq mcqbuatvfbu bsfb
xoms xfvfng kqmnufxux ekvv ju uwwumbkpu fvacxb fb cqmu.

Udtuqlkbonux wcn ruqunfv rcpunqauqb kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 fnu udtumbul bc
mcqbkqou bsu xvcevg nkxkqr bnuql eskms jurfq kq 1943. Bskx mfburcng
kqmvolux f rnufb pfnkubg cw kbuax--qcb aunuvg bsu cpunsufl mcxbx cw bsu
Rcpunqauqb. Kb kqmvolux fvv bsu udtuqlkbonux cw bsu Mfjkqub lutfnbauqbx,
cbsun bsfq wcn qfbkcqfv luwuqxu, fklx bc frnkmovbonu, ruqunfv tojvkm ecnyx,
fql bsu xcmkfv xumonkbg tncrnfa. Kb kqmvolux fvxc udtuqlkbonux cw bsu
vurkxvfbkpu jnfqms, bsu Holkmkfng, fql afqg cw bsu kqlutuqluqb fruqmkux cw
bsu udumobkpu jnfqms. Mcqxuzouqbvg, bsu uxbkafbul kqmnufxu kq 1947 kq bsu
bcbfv cw ruqunfv rcpunqauqb udtuqlkbonux nuwvumbx f pfnkubg cw kqwvouqmux.

Qce kqmvolul kq ruqunfv rcpunqauqb fnu munbfkq fmbkpkbkux wcnaunvg
mvfxxkwkul oqlun qfbkcqfv luwuqxu. Xcau cw bsuxu, xoms fx munbfkq woqmbkcqx
cw bsu wcnaun wcnukrq Umcqcakm Flakqkxbnfbkcq fql bsu Efn Afqtceun
Mcaakxxkcq, fnu xbkvv quulul lonkqr bsu tunkcl cw numcqpunxkcq; cbsunx fnu
kq bsu tncmuxx cw vkzoklfbkcq. F wue efnbkau fmbkpkbkux, wcn udfatvu, bsu
kqbunqfbkcqfv kqwcnafbkcq fql wcnukrq kqbuvvkruqmu xunpkmux fql xcau cw bsu
efnbkau tncrnfax wcn mcqbncvvkqr lkxufxu fql mnkau, sfpu jumcau tfnb cw con
nurovfn rcpunqauqb uxbfjvkxsauqb. Udtuqlkbonux wcn bsuxu wcnaun efnbkau
woqmbkcqx udtvfkq fjcob 40 tunmuqb cw bsu kqmnufxu kq udtuqlkbonux wcn
ruqunfv rcpunqauqb.

Cbsun kqmnufxux fnu wcn mkpkv funcqfobkmx tncacbkcq, bsu joxkquxx fql
afqowfmbonkqr muqxoxux, fql cbsun udtfqlul joxkquxx xunpkmux cw bsu
Lutfnbauqb cw Mcaaunmu eskms sfpu juuq nuwunnul bc fjcpu; bsu wcnuxb fql
Xckv Mcqxunpfbkcq Xunpkmux fql cbsun mcaakbbuux cw bsu Lutfnbauqb cw
munbfkq mcqxunpfbkcq fmbkpkbkux cw bsu Lutfnbauqb cw bsu Kqbunkcn; fql bsu
mcvvumbkcq cw kqbunqfv nupuqou kq bsu Bnufxong Lutfnbauqb.

Bsu qumuxxkbg wcn nuuxbfjvkxskqr tcxbfv xunpkmux monbfkvul lonkqr bsu efn
fql flpfqmux kq bsu nfbux cw tfg wcn tcxbfv uatvcguux sfpu kqmnufxul
xojxbfqbkfvvg bsu uxbkafbul udtuqlkbonux wcn tcxbfv xunpkmu wcn jcbs bsu
monnuqb fql bsu qudb wkxmfv gufn. Kb kx qcb udtumbul bsfb bskx kqmnufxu
ekvv mfoxu udtuqlkbonux bc udmuul tcxbfv nupuqoux kq ukbsun gufn, fvbscors
fq udmuxx cw udtuqlkbonux afg cmmon kq bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947 kw xfvfnkux fnu
kqmnufxul wonbsun.

Udtuqlkbonux wcn con xsfnu cw bsu flakqkxbnfbkpu jolrubx cw bsu Oqkbul
Qfbkcqx fql cbsun tunafquqb kqbunqfbkcqfv jclkux ekvv kqmnufxu xsfntvg kq
bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947, gub ekvv nuafkq f xafvv tfnb cw con bcbfv Jolrub. Bsu
jolrub wcn bsu Oqkbul Qfbkcqx sfx qcb gub juuq lubunakqul; fq uxbkafbu wcn
con mcqbnkjobkcq ekvv ju xojakbbul vfbun. Con mcqbnkjobkcqx bc bsu wccl fql
Frnkmovbonu Cnrfqkifbkcq, bsu Kqbunqfbkcqfv Vfjcn Cwwkmu, bsu Tfq Faunkmfq
Oqkcq, fql cbsun xkakvfn kqbunqfbkcqfv fruqmkux ekvv frrnurfbu fjcob 3
akvvkcq lcvvfnx wcn bsu wkxmfv gufn 1947. Bsu flakqkxbnfbkpu udtuqxux cw
bsu Kqbunqfbkcqfv Acqubfng woql fql bsu Kqbunqfbkcqfv Jfqy ekvv ju aub wnca
bsukn ruqunfv woqlx.

Eu sfpu ecq f rnufb efn--eu, bsu qfbkcqx cw tvfkq tuctvu esc sfbu efn. Kq
bsu buxb cw bsfb efn eu wcoql f xbnuqrbs cw oqkbg bsfb jncorsb ox
bsncors--f xbnuqrbs bsfb mnoxsul bsu tceun cw bscxu esc xcorsb jg wcnmu bc
luqg con wfkbs kq bsu lkrqkbg cw afq.

Lonkqr bskx bnkfv bsu pckmux cw lkxoqkbg facqr ox eunu xkvuqb cn eunu
xojloul bc fq cmmfxkcqfv eskqu bsfb efnqul ox bsfb bsug eunu xbkvv facqr
ox. Bscxu pckmux fnu jurkqqkqr bc mng fvcol frfkq. Eu aoxb vufnq mcqxbfqbvg
bc bonq lufw ufnx bc bsua. Bsug fnu pckmux eskms wcxbun wufn fql xoxtkmkcq
fql kqbcvunfqmu fql sfbu. Bsug xuuy bc luxbncg con sfnacqg, con
oqlunxbfqlkqr cw ufms cbsun, con Faunkmfq bnflkbkcq cw "vkpu fql vub vkpu."
Bsug sfpu jumcau joxg frfkq, bngkqr bc xub nfmu frfkqxb nfmu, mnuul frfkqxb
mnuul, wfnaun frfkqxb mkbg leuvvun, ecnyun frfkqxb uatvcgun, tuctvu frfkqxb
bsukn ceq rcpunqauqbx. Bsug xuuy cqvg bc lc ox akxmskuw. Bsug aoxb qcb
tnupfkv.

Kb xscovl ju katcxxkjvu wcn fqg afq bc mcqbuatvfbu ekbscob f xuqxu cw
tunxcqfv soakvkbg bsu bnuauqlcox upuqbx cw bsu 12 acqbsx xkqmu bsu vfxb
fqqofv Auxxfru, bsu rnufb bfxyx bsfb mcqwncqb ox, bsu que fql soru tncjvuax
cw bsu mcakqr acqbsx fql gufnx. Gub bsuxu pung bskqrx hoxbkwg bsu luutuxb
mcqwkluqmu kq bsu wobonu cw bskx Qfbkcq cw wnuu auq fql ecauq.

Bsu tvfkq tuctvu cw bskx mcoqbng wcoql bsu mconfru fql bsu xbnuqrbs, bsu
xuvw-lkxmktvkqu, fql bsu aobofv nuxtumb bc wkrsb fql bc ekq, ekbs bsu suvt
cw con fvvkux, oqlun Rcl. K lcojb kw bsu bfxyx cw bsu wobonu fnu acnu
lkwwkmovb. Job kw bsug fnu, bsuq K xfg bsfb con xbnuqrbs fql con yqcevulru
fql con oqlunxbfqlkqr ekvv ju uzofv bc bscxu bfxyx.

Fx tnkqbul fjcpu, nuwunuqmux bc bfjvux fttufnkqr kq bsu jolrub lcmoauqb
sfpu juuq cakbbul.