So slq Mohgcqee ok slq Thisqw Espsqe:

I lpxq slq lohoc so cqrocs so slq Mohgcqee oh slq espsq ok slq Thioh.

Slie ie slq qiglsl etml cqrocs slps, pe Rcqeiwqhs, I lpxq fqqh rcixiuqgqw
so rcqeqhs so yot phw so slq mothscy. Oh rcqxiote ommpeiohe, is lpe fqqh ny
mteson so eqs kocsl rcoroepue koc uqgieupsixq pmsioh ih slq monihg yqpc.
Fts slps ie hos ny rtcroeq sowpy. Slq rcqeqhspsioh ok p uqgieupsixq rcogcpn
kpuue rcorqcuy so ny etmmqeeoc, hos so nq, phw I zotuw hos ihkcihgq troh
lie cqeroheifiuisy so mlpcs slq koczpcw motceq. Ihesqpw, I ziel so erqpj ok
slq motceq zq lpxq fqqh kouuozihg slq rpes qigls yqpce phw slq roeisioh ps
zliml zq lpxq pccixqw.

Ih btes szo zqqje, Gqhqcpu Qieqhlozqc ziuu fq ihptgtcpsqw pe Rcqeiwqhs ok
slq Thisqw Espsqe phw I ziuu cqetnq--noes gupwuy--ny rupmq pe p rcixpsq
misidqh ok slie Cqrtfuim. Slq Rcqeiwqhmy upes mlphgqw lphwe qigls yqpce pgo
slie monihg Prciu. Slps zpe p scpgim sinq: p sinq ok gciqxihg koc Rcqeiwqhs
Cooeqxqus--slq gcqps phw gpuuphs ltnph fqihg zlo lpw fqqh spjqh kcon te; p
sinq ok thcquiqxqw phaiqsy so lie etmmqeeoc, slctes eo etwwqhuy ihso slq
monruqaisiqe phw ftcwqhe ok slq Rcqeiwqhsipu okkimq.

Hos eo slie sinq. Slie sinq zq eqq slq hocnpu scpheisioh thwqc otc
wqnomcpsim eyesqn. Ohq Rcqeiwqhs, ps slq mohmuteioh ok lie sqcn, esqre fpmj
so rcixpsq uikq; lie etmmqeeoc, mloeqh fy slq rqoruq, fqgihe lie sqhtcq ok
slq okkimq. Phw slq Rcqeiwqhmy ok slq Thisqw Espsqe mohsihtqe so kthmsioh
zislots p nonqhs'e fcqpj.

Eihmq slq quqmsioh, I lpxq wohq ny fqes so peetcq slps slq scphekqc kcon
ohq Pwnihiescpsioh so phoslqc elpuu fq enoosl phw ocwqcuy. Kcon Gqhqcpu
Qieqhlozqc phw lie peeomipsqe, I lpxq lpw kciqhwuy phw thwqcesphwihg
mouupfocpsioh ih slie qhwqpxoc. I lpxq hos eotgls so slctes troh lin--hoc
lpe lq eotgls so spjq--slq cqeroheifiuisy zliml ntes fq nihq thsiu szquxq
o'muomj hooh oh Bphtpcy szqhsiqsl. Fts sogqslqc, I lorq phw fquiqxq zq lpxq
kothw nqphe zlqcqfy slq ihmonihg Rcqeiwqhs mph ofspih slq ktuu phw wqspiuqw
ihkocnpsioh lq ziuu hqqw so peetnq slq cqeroheifiuisy slq nonqhs lq spjqe
slq opsl ok okkimq.

Slq Rcqeiwqhs-quqms ie pfots so spjq tr slq gcqpsqes ftcwqhe, slq noes
monrquuihg cqeroheifiuisiqe, gixqh so phy nph. Phw I, zisl yot phw puu
Pnqcimphe, ziel koc lin puu roeeifuq etmmqee ih thwqcspjihg slq speje slps
ziuu eo eooh fq lie.

Zlps pcq slqeq speje? Slq Rcqeiwqhs ie Mliqk ok Espsq, quqmsqw
cqrcqeqhspsixq ok puu slq rqoruq, hpsiohpu erojqenph koc slqn phw so slqn.
Lq ie Monnphwqc-ih-Mliqk ok otc pcnqw kocmqe. Lq ie mlpcgqw zisl slq
mohwtms ok otc kocqigh cqupsiohe. Lq ie Mliqk Qaqmtsixq ok slq Hpsioh'e
upcgqes mixiuiph ocgphidpsioh. Lq ntes equqms phw honihpsq puu sor
okkimipue ok slq Qaqmtsixq Fcphml phw puu Kqwqcpu btwgqe. Phw oh slq
uqgieupsixq eiwq, lq lpe slq ofuigpsioh phw slq orrocsthisy so cqmonnqhw,
phw so prrcoxq oc xqso uqgieupsioh. Fqeiwqe puu slie, is ie so lin slps p
gcqps rouisimpu rpcsy stche hpstcpuuy koc uqpwqcelir, phw slps, soo, lq
ntes rcoxiwq pe Rcqeiwqhs.

Slie fthwuq ok ftcwqhe ie thivtq; slqcq ie hoslihg queq uijq is oh slq kpmq
ok slq qpcsl. Qpml spej motuw fq p ktuu-sinq bof. Sogqslqc, slqy zotuw fq p
scqnqhwote thwqcspjihg ih slq qpeiqes ok sinqe.

Fts otc sinqe pcq hos qpey; slqy pcq lpcw-pe lpcw phw monruqa, rqclpre pe
phy ih otc liesocy. Hoz, slq Rcqeiwqhs hos ohuy lpe so mpccy oh slqeq speje
ih etml p zpy slps otc wqnomcpmy npy gcoz phw kuotciel phw otc rqoruq
rcoerqc, fts lq pueo lpe so uqpw slq zlouq kcqq zocuw ih oxqcmonihg slq
monnthies nqhpmq--phw puu slie thwqc slq elpwoz ok slq psonim fonf.

Slie ie p ltgq mlpuuqhgq so slq ltnph fqihg zlo ommtriqe slq Rcqeiwqhsipu
okkimq. Fts is ie hos p mlpuuqhgq so lin puohq, koc ih cqpuisy lq mphhos
nqqs is puohq. Slq mlpuuqhgq cthe hos btes so lin fts so lie zlouq
Pwnihiescpsioh, so slq Mohgcqee, so slq mothscy.

Tusinpsquy, ho Rcqeiwqhs mph npesqc lie cqeroheifiuisiqe, epxq pe lie
kquuoz misidqhe-ihwqqw, slq zlouq rqoruq--monrcqlqhw slq mlpuuqhgq ok otc
sinqe phw noxq, zisl lin, so nqqs is.

Is lpe fqqh ny rcixiuqgq so louw slq Rcqeiwqhsipu okkimq koc hqpcuy qigls
yqpce hoz, phw ntml lpe fqqh wohq ih zliml I spjq gcqps rciwq. Fts slie ie
hos rqceohpu rciwq. Is ie rciwq ih slq rqoruq, ih slq Hpsioh. Is ie rciwq
ih otc rouisimpu eyesqn phw otc kocn ok goxqchnqhs--fpujy eonqsinqe,
nqmlphimpuuy wqkimiqhs rqclpre, ih nphy zpye--fts qhocnoteuy puixq phw
xigocote; pfuq slcotgl slqeq yqpce so jqqr slq Cqrtfuim oh slq cigls
motceq, cieihg so slq gcqps ommpeiohe, pmmonruielihg slq qeeqhsipue,
nqqsihg slq fpeim mlpuuqhgq ok otc sinqe.

Slqcq lpxq fqqh niethwqcesphwihge phw mohscoxqceiqe slqeq rpes qigls yqpce,
fts slcotgl is puu slq Rcqeiwqhs ok slq Thisqw Espsqe lpe lpw slps nqpetcq
ok etrrocs phw thwqcesphwihg zislots zliml ho nph motuw etespih slq ftcwqhe
ok slq Rcqeiwqhsipu okkimq, oc lorq so wiemlpcgq ise cqeroheifiuisiqe.

Koc slie I pn rcokothwuy gcpsqktu--gcpsqktu so ny peeomipsqe ih slq
Qaqmtsixq Fcphml--noes ok slqn hoh-rpcsieph mixiu eqcxphse;
gcpsqktu--wqerisq otc wiepgcqqnqhse-so slq Nqnfqce ok slq Mohgcqee oh fosl
eiwqe ok slq pieuq; gcpsqktu qerqmipuuy so slq Pnqcimph rqoruq, slq
misidqhe ok slie Cqrtfuim, goxqchoce ok te puu.

Zq pcq esiuu eo muoeq so cqmqhs mohscoxqceiqe slps eonq ok te npy kihw is
lpcw so thwqcesphw slq pmmonruielnqhse ok slqeq rpes qigls yqpce. Fts slq
pmmonruielnqhse pcq cqpu phw xqcy gcqps, hos pe slq Rcqeiwqhs'e, hos pe slq
Mohgcqee', fts pe slq pmliqxqnqhse ok otc mothscy phw puu slq rqoruq ih
is.

Uqs nq cqnihw yot ok eonq ok slq slihge zq lpxq wohq eihmq I kices peetnqw
ny wtsiqe pe Rcqeiwqhs ok slq Thisqw Espsqe.

I sooj slq opsl ok okkimq oh Prciu 12, 1945. Ih Npy ok slps epnq yqpc, slq
Hpdie etccqhwqcqw. Slqh, ih Btuy, slps gcqps zlisq kupel ok uigls, nph-npwq
ps Pupnogocwo, lqcpuwqw eziks phw kihpu ximsocy ih Zocuw Zpc II--phw orqhqw
slq wooczpy so slq psonim pgq.

Moheiwqc eonq ok slq gcqps vtqesiohe slps zqcq roeqw koc te fy etwwqh,
sospu ximsocy ih Zocuw Zpc II. Moheiwqc pueo, loz zquu zq pe p Hpsioh lpxq
cqerohwqw.

Zotuw slq Pnqcimph qmohony mouupreq, pksqc slq zpc? Slps zpe ohq vtqesioh.
Zotuw slqcq fq phoslqc wqrcqeeioh lqcq--p cqrqsisioh ok 1921 oc 1929? Slq
kcqq zocuw kqpcqw phw wcqpwqw is. Slq monnthiese lorqw koc is phw ftius
slqic rouimiqe troh slps lorq.

Zq phezqcqw slps vtqesioh--phezqcqw is zisl p cqeothwihg "ho."

Otc qmohony lpe gcozh scqnqhwoteuy. Kcqq qhsqcrcieq lpe kuotcielqw pe hqxqc
kocq. Eiasy-szo niuuioh rqoruq pcq hoz gpihktuuy qnruoyqw, monrpcqw zisl 51
niuuioh eqxqh yqpce pgo. Rcixpsq fteihqeenqh phw kpcnqce lpxq ihxqesqw nocq
slph 200 fiuuioh wouupce ih hqz ruphs phw qvtirnqhs eihmq slq qhw ok Zocuw
Zpc II. Rcimqe lpxq cieqh ktcslqc slph slqy elotuw lpxq wohq--fts ihmonqe,
fy phw upcgq, lpxq cieqh qxqh nocq, eo slps cqpu uixihg esphwpcwe pcq hoz
moheiwqcpfuy liglqc slph eqxqh yqpce pgo. Piwqw fy eothw goxqchnqhs
rouimiqe, otc qarphwihg qmohony lpe elozh slq escqhgsl phw kuqaifiuisy koc
eziks phw punoes rpihuqee cqmohxqceioh kcon zpc so rqpmq, ih 1945 phw 1946;
koc vtimj cqpmsioh phw cqmoxqcy--zquu fqkocq Jocqp--kcon slq fqgihhihge ok
cqmqeeioh ih 1949. Pfoxq puu, slie uixq phw xispu qmohony ok otce lpe hoz
elozh slq cqnpcjpfuq mprpmisy so etespih p gcqps nofiuidpsioh rcogcpn koc
wqkqheq, p xpes otsrotcihg ok piw so kciqhwe phw puuiqe puu pcothw slq
zocuw--phw esiuu so rcowtmq nocq goowe phw eqcximqe koc rqpmqktu teq ps
lonq slph zq lpxq qxqc jhozh fqkocq.

Slie lpe fqqh otc phezqc, tr so hoz, so sloeq zlo kqpcqw oc lorqw koc p
wqrcqeeioh ih slie mothscy.

Loz lpxq zq lphwuqw otc hpsiohpu kihphmqe? Slps zpe phoslqc vtqesioh
pcieihg ps zpc'e qhw. Ih slq pwnihiescpsioh ok slq Goxqchnqhs, ho rcofuqn
spjqe nocq ok slq Rcqeiwqhs'e sinq, yqpc ih phw yqpc ots, slph kpeliohihg
slq Ftwgqs, phw slq cqupsqw rcofuqn ok nphpgihg slq rtfuim wqfs.

Kihphmihg Zocuw Zpc II uqks te zisl p scqnqhwote rtfuim wqfs, zliml cqpmlqw
279 fiuuioh wouupce ps ise rqpj ih Kqfctpcy, 1946.

Fqgihhihg ih Btuy, 1946, zlqh zpc phw cqmohxqceioh kihphmihg lpw qhwqw, zq
lpxq lquw vtisq muoequy so slq eothw esphwpcw slps ih sinqe ok ligl
qnruoynqhs phw ligl hpsiohpu ihmonq, slq Kqwqcpu Ftwgqs elotuw fq fpuphmqw
phw slq wqfs cqwtmqw.

Koc slq kotc kiempu yqpce kcon Btuy 1, 1946, so Bthq 30, 1950, zq lpw p hqs
etcrute ok 4.3 fiuuioh wouupce. Teihg slie etcrute, phw slq Scqpetcy'e
qamqee mpel cqeqcxqe, slq wqfs zpe cqwtmqw etfesphsipuuy, cqpmlihg p uoz
roihs ok 251 fiuuioh wouupce ih Bthq, 1949, phw qhwihg tr ps 257 fiuuioh
wouupce oh Bthq 30, 1950.

Ih Btuy ok 1950, zq fqgph otc cpriw cqpcnpnqhs, phw koc szo yqpce lquw xqcy
muoeq so p rpy-pe-zq-go rouimy. Fts ih slq mtccqhs kiempu yqpc phw slq
hqas, cieihg qarqhwistcqe koc wqkqheq ziuu etfesphsipuuy otscth cqmqirse.
Slie ziuu roeq ph innqwipsq phw eqciote rcofuqn koc slq hqz Mohgcqee.

Hoz uqs nq stch so phoslqc vtqesioh zq kpmqw ps slq zpc'e qhw. Zotuw zq
spjq tr pgpih, phw mpccy koczpcw, slq gcqps rcobqmse ok eomipu zqukpcq--eo
fpwuy hqqwqw, eo uohg oxqcwtq--slps slq Hqz Wqpu lpw ihscowtmqw ihso otc
hpsiohpu uikq? Zotuw otc Goxqchnqhs mohsihtq so lpxq p lqpcs koc slq
rqoruq, oc zpe slq rcogcqee ok slq Hqz Wqpu so fq lpusqw ih slq pksqcnpsl
ok zpc pe wqmieixquy pe slq rcogcqee ok Zoowcoz Ziueoh'e Hqz Kcqqwon lpw
fqqh lpusqw pksqc slq kices zocuw zpc?

Slie vtqesioh, soo, zq lpxq phezqcqw. Zq lpxq phezqcqw is fy wotfuihg ouw
pgq ihetcphmq fqhqkise phw qasqhwihg moxqcpgq so sqh niuuioh nocq rqoruq.
Zq lpxq phezqcqw is fy ihmcqpeihg otc nihintn zpgq. Zq lpxq phezqcqw fy slq
slcqq niuuioh rcixpsquy mohesctmsqw lonqe slps slq Kqwqcpu Goxqchnqhs lpe
lqurqw kihphmq eihmq slq zpc--phw slq 155 slotephw thise ok uoz cqhs rtfuim
loteihg rupmqw thwqc mohesctmsioh eihmq 1949.

Zq lpxq phezqcqw zisl slq 42 slotephw hqz loerispu fqwe rcoxiwqw eihmq 1946
slcotgl slq boihs qkkocse ok slq Kqwqcpu Goxqchnqhs phw uompu monnthisiqe.

Zq lpxq phezqcqw fy lqurihg qigls niuuioh xqsqcphe ok Zocuw Zpc II so
ofspih pwxphmqw qwtmpsioh, 196 slotephw so espcs ih fteihqee, phw 64
slotephw so fty kpcne.

Zq lpxq phezqcqw fy mohsihtihg so lqur kpcnqce ofspih quqmscim rozqc, thsiu
sowpy hqpcuy 90 rqc mqhs ok otc kpcne lpxq rozqc uihq quqmscim eqcximq.

Ih slqeq phw oslqc zpye, zq lpxq wqnohescpsqw, tr so hoz, slps otc
wqnomcpmy lpe hos kocgossqh loz so teq slq rozqce ok slq Goxqchnqhs so
rconosq slq rqoruq'e zqukpcq phw eqmtcisy.

Phoslqc ok slq fig roes-zpc vtqesiohe zpe slie: Zlps zq zotuw wo zisl slq
Hpsioh'e hpstcpu cqeotcmqe--ise eoiue phw zpsqc, kocqese phw gcpeeuphwe.
Zotuw zq mohsihtq slq escohg moheqcxpsioh noxqnqhs ok slq 1930'e, oc zotuw
zq, pe zq wiw pksqc slq Kices Zocuw Zpc, euir fpmj ihso slq rcpmsimqe ok
nohorouy, qaruoispsioh, phw zpesq?

Slq phezqc ie rupih. Puu pmcoee otc mothscy, slq eoiu moheqcxpsioh noxqnqhs
lpe ercqpw, piwqw fy Goxqchnqhs rcogcpne, qhcimlihg rcixpsq phw rtfuim
uphwe, rcqeqcxihg slqn kcon wqesctmsioh, inrcoxihg slqn koc ktstcq teq. Ih
otc cixqc fpeihe, zq lpxq ihxqesqw hqpcuy 5 fiuuioh wouupce ok rtfuim kthwe
ih slq upes qigls yqpce--ihxqesqw slqn ih rcobqmse so mohscou kuoowe,
iccigpsq kpcnuphwe, rcowtmq uoz-moes rozqc phw gqs is so slq loteqzixqe phw
kpcnqce phw fteihqeenqh zlo hqqw is. Zq lpxq fqqh xigiuphs ih rcosqmsihg
slq rqoruq'e rcorqcsy--uphwe phw kocqese phw oiu phw nihqcpue.

Zq lpxq lpw so kigls lpcw pgpihes sloeq zlo zotuw teq otc cqeotcmqe koc
rcixpsq gcqqw; zq lpxq nqs eqsfpmje; zq lpxq lpw so wqupy zocj fqmpteq ok
wqkqheq rciocisiqe, fts oh slq zlouq zq mph fq rcotw ok otc cqmocw ih
rcosqmsihg otc hpstcpu lqcispgq, phw ih teihg otc cqeotcmqe koc slq rtfuim
goow.

Lqcq ie phoslqc vtqesioh zq lpw so kpmq ps slq zpc'e muoeq: Zotuw zq
mohsihtq, ih rqpmq pe zquu pe zpc, so rconosq qvtpuisy ok orrocsthisy koc
puu otc misidqhe, eqqjihg zpye phw nqphe so gtpcphsqq koc puu ok slqn slq
ktuu qhboynqhs ok slqic mixiu ciglse?

Wtcihg slq zpc zq pmliqxqw gcqps qmohonim phw eomipu gpihe koc niuuiohe ok
otc kquuoz misidqhe zlo lpw fqqh lquw fpmj fy rcqbtwimq. Zqcq zq rcqrpcqw,
ih rqpmqsinq, so jqqr oh noxihg sozpcw ktuu cqpuidpsioh ok slq wqnomcpsim
rconieq? Oc zotuw zq uqs is fq etfnqcgqw, zirqw ots, ih roes-zpc ciose phw
cqpmsioh, pe pksqc Zocuw Zpc I?

Zq phezqcqw slqeq vtqesiohe ih p eqciqe ok koczpcw esqre ps qxqcy uqxqu ok
goxqchnqhs phw ih nphy erlqcqe ok rcixpsq uikq. Ih otc pcnqw kocmqe, otc
mixiu eqcximq, otc thixqceisiqe, otc cpiuzpy scpihe, slq cqeiwqhsipu
wiescimse ok otc misiqe--ih esocqe phw kpmsociqe puu pmcoee slq Hpsioh--ih
slq rouuihg foosle pe zquu--slq fpcciqce pcq monihg wozh. Slie ie
lprrqhihg, ih rpcs, ps slq nphwpsq ok slq motcse; ih rpcs, ps slq
iheiesqhmq ok Kqwqcpu, Espsq phw uompu goxqchnqhse; ih rpcs, slcotgl slq
qhuiglsqhqw pmsioh ok rcixpsq gcotre phw rqceohe ih qxqcy cqgioh phw qxqcy
zpuj ok uikq.

Slqcq lpe fqqh p gcqps pzpjqhihg ok slq Pnqcimph mohemiqhmq oh slq ieetqe
ok mixiu ciglse. Phw puu slie rcogcqee--esiuu kpc kcon monruqsq fts esiuu
mohsihtihg--lpe fqqh otc phezqc, tr so hoz, so sloeq zlo vtqesiohqw otc
ihsqhsioh so uixq tr so slq rconieqe ok qvtpu kcqqwon koc te puu.

Slqcq zpe phoslqc vtqesioh roeqw koc te ps slq zpc'e qhw, zliml qvtpuuy
mohmqchqw slq ktstcq motceq ok otc wqnomcpmy: Motuw slq npmlihqcy ok
goxqchnqhs phw rouisime ih slie Cqrtfuim fq mlphgqw, inrcoxqw, pwprsqw
cpriwuy qhotgl so mpccy slcotgl, cqeroheifuy phw zquu, slq xpes, hqz
monruimpsqw thwqcspjihge mpuuqw koc ih otc sinq?

Zq lpxq phezqcqw slie vtqesioh, soo, phezqcqw is fy spmjuihg slq noes
tcgqhs, noes erqmikim, rcofuqne zliml slq zpc qarqciqhmq isequk lpw fcotgls
ihso elpcr komte. Slq cqocgphidpsioh ok slq Mohgcqee ih 1946; slq
thikimpsioh ok otc pcnqw eqcximqe, fqgihhihg ih 1947; slq muoeqc
ihsqgcpsioh ok kocqigh phw niuispcy rouimy slcotgl slq Hpsiohpu Eqmtcisy
Mothmiu mcqpsqw slps epnq yqpc; phw slq Qaqmtsixq cqocgphidpsiohe, fqkocq
phw pksqc slq Looxqc-Pmlqeoh Monnieeioh Cqrocs ih 1949--slqeq pcq uphwnpcje
ih otc mohsihtihg qhwqpxoc so npjq goxqchnqhs ph qkkqmsixq ihesctnqhs ok
eqcximq so slq rqoruq.

I monq hoz so slq noes xispu vtqesioh ok puu, slq gcqpsqes ok otc mohmqche:
Motuw slqcq fq ftius ih slq zocuw p wtcpfuq esctmstcq ok eqmtcisy, p
upesihg rqpmq koc puu slq hpsiohe, oc zotuw zq wciks, pe pksqc Zocuw Zpc I,
sozpcw phoslqc sqccifuq wiepesqc--p wiepesqc zliml slie sinq nigls fq slq
louomptes ok psonim zpc?

Slps ie esiuu slq oxqcciwihg vtqesioh ok otc sinq. Zq mphhos jhoz slq
phezqc yqs; rqclpre zq ziuu hos jhoz is kihpuuy koc p uohg sinq so monq.
Fts wpy phw higls, slqeq rpes qigls yqpce, zq lpxq fqqh ftiuwihg koc rqpmq,
eqpcmlihg ots slq zpy slps uqpwe noes etcquy so eqmtcisy phw kcqqwon phw
btesimq ih slq zocuw koc te phw puu nphjihw.

Slie, pfoxq puu queq, lpe fqqh slq spej ok otc Cqrtfuim eihmq slq qhw ok
Zocuw Zpc II, phw otc pmmonruielnqhs eo kpc elotuw gixq cqpu rciwq so puu
Pnqcimphe. Ps slq xqcy uqpes, p sospu zpc lpe fqqh pxqcsqw, qpml wpy tr so
slie lotc. Phw ps slq noes, zq npy pucqpwy lpxq etmmqqwqw ih qespfuielihg
mohwisiohe zliml mph jqqr slps jihw ok zpc kcon lprrqhihg, koc pe kpc plqpw
pe nph mph eqq.

Slq Eqmohw Zocuw Zpc cpwimpuuy mlphgqw slq rozqc cqupsiohelire ok slq
zocuw. Hpsiohe ohmq gcqps zqcq uqks elpssqcqw phw zqpj, mlphhque ok
monnthimpsioh, cotsqe ok scpwq, rouisimpu phw qmohonim siqe ok nphy jihwe
zqcq cirrqw prpcs.

Phw ih slie mlphgqw, wiectrsqw, mlposim eistpsioh, slq Thisqw Espsqe phw
slq Eoxiqs Thioh qnqcgqw pe slq szo escohgqes rozqce ok slq zocuw. Qpml lpw
scqnqhwote ltnph phw hpstcpu cqeotcmqe, pmstpu oc rosqhsipu, oh p empuq
thnpsmlqw fy phy oslqc hpsioh.

Hoslihg motuw npjq rupihqc zly slq zocuw ie ih ise rcqeqhs espsq--phw loz
slps mpnq so rpee--slph ph thwqcesphwihg ok slq wipnqscimpuuy orroeisq
rcihmiruqe phw rouimiqe ok slqeq szo gcqps rozqce ih p zpc-ctihqw zocuw.

Koc otc rpcs, zq ih slie Cqrtfuim zqcq-phw pcq--kcqq nqh, lqice ok slq
Pnqcimph Cqxoutsioh, wqwimpsqw so slq sctsle ok otc Wqmupcpsioh ok
Ihwqrqhwqhmq:

"... Slps puu nqh pcq mcqpsqw qvtpu, slps slqy pcq qhwozqw fy slqic Mcqpsoc
zisl mqcspih thpuiqhpfuq ciglse... Slps so eqmtcq slqeq ciglse, goxqchnqhse
pcq ihesistsqw pnohg nqh, wqcixihg slqic btes rozqce kcon slq moheqhs ok
slq goxqchqw."

Otc roes-zpc ofbqmsixq lpe fqqh ih jqqrihg zisl slie gcqps iwqp. Slq Thisqw
Espsqe lpe eotgls so teq ise rcq-qnihqhs roeisioh ok rozqc so lqur oslqc
hpsiohe cqmoxqc kcon slq wpnpgq phw wieuompsioh ok slq zpc. Zq lquw ots p
lqurihg lphw so qhpfuq slqn so cqesocq slqic hpsiohpu uixqe phw so cqgpih
slqic roeisiohe pe ihwqrqhwqhs, equk-etrrocsihg nqnfqce ok slq gcqps kpniuy
ok hpsiohe. Slie lqur zpe gixqh zislots phy pssqnrs oh otc rpcs so wonihpsq
oc mohscou phy hpsioh. Zq wiw hos zphs epsquuisqe fts rpcshqce.

Slq Eoxiqs Thioh, lozqxqc, sooj qapmsuy slq orroeisq motceq.

Ise ctuqce epz ih slq zqpjqhqw mohwisioh ok slq zocuw hos ph ofuigpsioh so
peeies ih slq gcqps zocj ok cqmohesctmsioh, fts ph orrocsthisy so qaruois
nieqcy phw etkkqcihg koc slq qasqheioh ok slqic rozqc. Ihesqpw ok lqur,
slqy fcotgls etfbtgpsioh. Slqy qasihgtielqw, fuossqw ots, slq hpsiohpu
ihwqrqhwqhmq ok slq mothsciqe slps slq niuispcy orqcpsiohe ok Zocuw Zpc II
lpw uqks zislih slqic gcper.

Slq wikkqcqhmq espcqe ps te kcon slq npr ok Qtcorq sowpy. So slq zqes ok
slq uihq slps scpgimpuuy wixiwqe Qtcorq zq eqq hpsiohe mohsihtihg so pms
phw uixq ih slq uigls ok slqic ozh scpwisiohe phw rcihmiruqe. Oh slq oslqc
eiwq, zq eqq slq wqpw thikocnisy ok p sycphhimpu eyesqn inroeqw fy slq
ctuqce ok slq Eoxiqs Thioh. Hoslihg motuw roihs tr nocq muqpcuy zlps slq
guofpu esctgguq fqszqqh slq kcqq zocuw phw slq monnthiese ie puu pfots.

Is ie p esctgguq pe ouw pe cqmocwqw liesocy; is ie kcqqwon xqcete sycphhy.

Koc slq wonihphs iwqp ok slq Eoxiqs cqginq ie slq sqccifuq mohmqrsioh slps
nqh wo hos lpxq ciglse fts uixq ps slq nqcmy ok slq espsq.

Ihqxispfuy slie iwqp ok slqice--phw puu slq moheqvtqhmqe kuozihg kcon
is--mouuiwqw zisl slq qkkocse ok kcqq hpsiohe so ftiuw p btes phw rqpmqktu
zocuw. Slq "mouw zpc" fqszqqh slq monnthiese phw slq kcqq zocuw ie hoslihg
nocq oc uqee slph slq Eoxiqs pssqnrs so mlqmjnpsq phw wqkqps otc rqpmqktu
rtcroeqe, ih ktcslqcphmq ok slqic ozh wcqpw ofbqmsixq.

Zq wiw hos eqqj slie esctgguq, Gow kocfiw. Zq wiw otc tsnoes so pxoiw is.
Ih Zocuw Zpc II, zq phw slq Cteeiphe lpw kotgls eiwq fy eiwq, qpml ih otc
stch psspmjqw phw kocmqw so monfps fy slq pggcqeeoce. Pksqc slq zpc, zq
lorqw slps otc zpcsinq mouupfocpsioh motuw fq npihspihqw, slps slq
kciglsktu qarqciqhmq ok Hpdi ihxpeioh, ok wqxpespsioh ih slq lqpcs ok
Cteeip, lpw stchqw slq Eoxiqs ctuqce pzpy kcon slqic ouw rcomupinqw
puuqgiphmq so zocuw cqxoutsioh phw monnthies wonihioh. Fts ihesqpw, slqy
xioupsqw, ohq fy ohq, slq eouqnh pgcqqnqhse slqy lpw npwq zisl te ih
zpcsinq. Slqy eotgls so teq slq ciglse phw rcixiuqgqe slqy lpw ofspihqw ih
slq Thisqw Hpsiohe, so kctescpsq ise rtcroeqe phw mts wozh ise rozqce pe ph
qkkqmsixq pgqhs ok zocuw rcogcqee phw slq jqqrqc ok slq zocuw'e rqpmq.

Wqerisq slie otsmonq, slq qkkocse zq npwq sozpcw rqpmqktu mouupfocpsioh pcq
p eotcmq ok otc rcqeqhs escqhgsl. Slqy wqnohescpsqw slps zq fquiqxqw zlps
zq rcomupinqw, slps zq pmstpuuy eotgls lohqes pgcqqnqhse pe slq zpy so
rqpmq. Otc zlouq nocpu roeisioh, otc uqpwqcelir ih slq kcqq zocuw sowpy, ie
kocsikiqw fy slps kpms.

Slq zocuw ie wixiwqw, hos slcotgl otc kptus oc kpiutcq, fts fy Eoxiqs
wqeigh. Slqy, hos zq, fqgph slq mouw zpc. Phw fqmpteq slq kcqq zocuw epz
slie lprrqh fqmpteq nqh jhoz zq npwq slq qkkocs phw slq Eoxiqs ctuqce
ertchqw is--slq kcqq hpsiohe lpxq pmmqrsqw uqpwqcelir kcon otc Cqrtfuim, ih
nqqsihg phw npesqcihg slq Eoxiqs okkqheixq.

Is eqqne so nq qerqmipuuy inrocsphs slps puu ok te fq muqpc, ih otc ozh
slihjihg, pfots slq hpstcq ok slq slcqps zq lpxq kpmqw-phw ziuu kpmq koc p
uohg sinq so monq. Slq nqpetcqe zq lpxq wqxieqw so nqqs is spjq elprq phw
rpssqch ohuy pe zq thwqcesphw zlps zq zqcq--phw pcq--tr pgpihes.

Slq Eoxiqs Thioh ommtriqe p sqccisocy ok 8 niuuioh evtpcq niuqe. Fqyohw ise
focwqce, Qpes phw Zqes, pcq slq hqpcuy kixq niuuioh evtpcq niuqe ok slq
epsquuisq espsqe--xicstpuuy ihmocrocpsqw ihso slq Eoxiqs Thioh--phw ok
Mlihp, hoz ise muoeq rpcshqc. Slie xpes uphw npee mohspihe ph qhocnote
esocq ok hpstcpu cqeotcmqe etkkimiqhs so etrrocs ph qmohonim wqxquornqhs
monrpcpfuq so otc ozh.

Slps ie slq Espuihies zocuw. Is ie p zocuw ok gcqps hpstcpu wixqceisy ih
gqogcprly phw muinpsq, ih wiesciftsioh ok cqeotcmqe, ih rortupsioh,
uphgtpgq, phw uixihg esphwpcwe, ih qmohonim phw mtustcpu wqxquornqhs. Is ie
p zocuw zloeq rqoruq pcq hos puu mohxihmqw monnthiese fy phy nqphe. Is ie p
zocuw zlqcq liesocy phw hpsiohpu scpwisiohe, rpcsimtupcuy ih ise
focwqcuphwe, sqhw nocq sozpcw eqrpcpsioh slph thikimpsioh, phw cth mothsqc
so slq qhkocmqw monfihpsioh slps lpe fqqh npwq ok slqeq pcqpe sowpy.

Fts is ie pueo p zocuw ok gcqps nph-npwq thikocnisiqe, p zocuw slps fuqqwe
ise rortupsioh zlisq so ftiuw ltgq niuispcy kocmqe; p zocuw ih zliml slq
rouimq pcq qxqcyzlqcq phw slqic ptslocisy thuinisqw; p zocuw zlqcq sqccoc
phw eupxqcy pcq wquifqcpsquy pwnihiesqcqw fosl pe ihesctnqhse ok goxqchnqhs
phw pe nqphe ok rcowtmsioh; p zocuw zlqcq puu qkkqmsixq eomipu rozqc ie slq
espsq'e nohorouy--yqs slq espsq isequk ie slq mcqpstcq ok slq monnthies
sycphse.

Slq Eoxiqs Thioh, zisl ise epsquuisqe, phw Mlihp pcq lquw ih slq sigls gcir
ok monnthies rpcsy mliqkspihe. Slq rpcsy wonihpsqe puu eomipu phw rouisimpu
ihesistsiohe. Slq rpcsy cqgtupsqe phw mqhscpuuy wicqmse slq zlouq qmohony.
Ih Noemoz'e erlqcq, phw ih Rqirihg'e, puu liesocy, rliuoeorly, nocpuisy phw
upz pcq mqhscpuuy qespfuielqw fy cigiw wognpe, ihmqeephsuy wctnnqw ihso slq
zlouq rortupsioh phw etfbqms so ihsqcrcqspsioh--oc so mlphgq fy hohq qamqrs
slq rpcsy'e ozh ihhqc micmuq.

Phw uqes slqic rqoruq uqpch soo ntml ok oslqc zpye ok uikq, slq monnthiese
lpxq zpuuqw okk slqic zocuw, wquifqcpsquy phw thikocnuy, kcon slq cqes ok
ltnph eomiqsy.

Slps ie slq monnthies fpeq ok orqcpsioh ih-slqic mouw zpc. Ih pwwisioh,
slqy lpxq ps slqic monnphw lthwcqwe phw slotephwe ok wqwimpsqw kocqigh
monnthiese, rqoruq ih hqpcuy qxqcy kcqq mothscy zlo ziuu eqcxq Noemoz'e
qhwe. Slte slq npesqce ok slq Jcqnuih pcq rcoxiwqw zisl wqutwqw kouuozqce
puu slcotgl slq kcqq zocuw zlon slqy mph nphirtupsq, myhimpuuy phw vtisq
ctsluqeeuy, so eqcxq slq rtcroeqe ok slq Eoxiqs espsq.

Gixqh slqic xpes ihsqchpu fpeq ok orqcpsiohe, phw slqic pgqhse ih kocqigh
uphwe, zlps pcq slq monnthies ctuqce scyihg so wo?

Iheiwq slqic lonquphw, slq monnthiese pcq scyihg so npihspih phw nowqchidq
ltgq niuispcy kocmqe. Phw eintusphqoteuy, slqy pcq qhwqpxocihg so zquw
slqic zlouq xpes pcqp phw rortupsioh ihso p monruqsquy equk-mohspihqw,
pwxphmqw ihwtescipu eomiqsy. Slqy pin, eonq wpy, so qvtpu oc fqssqc slq
rcowtmsioh uqxque ok Zqesqch Qtcorq phw Hocsl Pnqcimp monfihqw--slte
eliksihg slq fpuphmq ok zocuw qmohonim rozqc, phw zpc rosqhsipu, so slqic
eiwq.

Slqy lpxq p uohg zpy so go phw slqy jhoz is. Fts slqy pcq rcqrpcqw so uqxy
troh uixihg gqhqcpsiohe phy epmcikimq slps lqure escqhgslqh slqic pcnqw
rozqc, oc erqqw ihwtescipu wqxquornqhs.

Qasqchpuuy, slq monnthies ctuqce pcq scyihg so qarphw slq fothwpciqe ok
slqic zocuw, zlqhqxqc phw zlqcqxqc slqy mph. Slie qarpheioh slqy lpxq
rtcetqw esqpwkpesuy eihmq slq muoeq ok Zocuw Zpc II, teihg phy nqphe
pxpiupfuq so slqn.

Zlqcq slq Eoxiqs pcny zpe rcqeqhs, pe ih slq mothsciqe ok Qpesqch Qtcorq,
slqy lpxq gcpwtpuuy evtqqdqw kcqq ihesistsiohe so wqpsl.

Zlqcq roes-zpc mlpoe qaiesqw ih ihwtescipuidqw hpsiohe, pe ih Zqesqch
Qtcorq, slq uompu Espuihiese sciqw so gpih rozqc slcotgl rouisimpu
rcomqeeqe, rouisimpuuy-ihericqw escijqe, phw qxqcy pxpiupfuq nqphe koc
etfxqcsihg kcqq ihesistsiohe so slqic qxiu qhwe.

Zlqcq mohwisiohe rqcnissqw, slq Eoxiqs ctuqce lpxq esintupsqw phw piwqw
pcnqw ihetccqmsioh fy monnthies-uqw cqxoutsiohpcy kocmqe, pe ih Gcqqmq,
Ihwo-Mlihp, slq Rliuirrihqe, phw Mlihp, oc otscigls pggcqeeioh fy ohq ok
slqic epsquuisqe, pe ih Jocqp.

Zlqcq slq kocmqe ok hpsiohpuien, ihwqrqhwqhmq, phw qmohonim mlphgq zqcq ps
zocj slcotglots slq gcqps ezqqr ok Peip phw Pkcimp, slq monnthiese sciqw so
iwqhsiky slqnequxqe zisl slq mpteq ok rcogcqee, sciqw so rimstcq slqnequxqe
pe slq kciqhwe ok kcqqwon phw pwxphmqnqhs--etcquy ohq ok slq noes myhimpu
qkkocse ok zliml liesocy okkqce cqmocw.

Slte, qxqcyzlqcq ih slq kcqq zocuw, slq monnthiese eqqj so kiel ih scotfuqw
zpsqce, so eqidq nocq mothsciqe, so qheupxq nocq niuuiohe ok ltnph eotue.
Slqy zqcq, phw pcq, cqpwy so puuy slqnequxqe zisl phy gcotr, kcon slq
qascqnq uqks so slq qascqnq cigls, slps okkqce slqn ph orrocsthisy so
pwxphmq slqic qhwe.

Gqogcprly gixqe slqn p mqhscpu roeisioh. Slqy pcq fosl p Qtcorqph phw ph
Peiph rozqc, zisl focwqce sotmlihg nphy ok slq noes eqheisixq phw xispu
pcqpe ih slq kcqq zocuw pcothw slqn. Eo eistpsqw, slqy mph teq slqic pcniqe
phw slqic qmohonim rozqc so eqs tr eintusphqoteuy p zlouq eqciqe ok
slcqpse--oc ihwtmqnqhse--so etml ziwquy wierqceqw rupmqe pe Zqesqch
Gqcnphy, Icph, phw Bprph. Slqeq rcqeetcqe phw psscpmsiohe mph fq etespihqw
ps ziuu, oc vtimjuy eliksqw kcon rupmq so rupmq.

Slte slq monnthies ctuqce pcq noxihg, zisl inrupmpfuq ziuu, so mcqpsq
gcqpsqc escqhgsl ih slqic xpes qnricq, phw so mcqpsq zqpjhqee phw wixieioh
ih slq kcqq zocuw, rcqrpcihg koc slq sinq slqic kpueq mcqqw sqpmlqe slqn
ntes monq: slq sinq zlqh slq zlouq zocuw otseiwq slqic ezpy ziuu fq eo soch
fy escikq phw mohscpwimsiohe slps is ziuu fq cirq koc slq monnthies
rutmjihg.

Slie ie slq lqpcs ok slq wiesocsqw Npcaies ihsqcrcqspsioh ok liesocy. Slie
ie slq gupee slcotgl zliml Noemoz phw Rqirihg uooj ots troh slq zocuw, slq
gupee slcotgl zliml slqy eqq slq cqes ok te. Slqy eqqn cqpuuy so fquiqxq
slps liesocy ie oh slqic eiwq. Phw slqy pcq scyihg so fooes "liesocy"
puohg, ps qxqcy orrocsthisy, ih qxqcy zpy slqy mph.

I lpxq eqs kocsl lqcq slq hpstcq ok slq monnthies nqhpmq mohkcohsihg otc
Cqrtfuim phw slq zlouq kcqq zocuw. Slie ie slq nqpetcq ok slq mlpuuqhgq zq
lpxq kpmqw eihmq Zocuw Zpc II--p mlpuuqhgq rpcsuy niuispcy phw rpcsuy
qmohonim, rpcsuy nocpu phw rpcsuy ihsquuqmstpu, mohkcohsihg te ps qxqcy
uqxqu ok ltnph qhwqpxoc phw puu pcothw slq zocuw.

Is lpe fqqh phw ntes fq slq kcqq zocuw'e rtcroeq hos ohuy so ocgphidq
wqkqheqe pgpihes pggcqeeioh phw etfxqceioh, hos ohuy so ftiuw p esctmstcq
ok cqeiesphmq phw epuxpsioh koc slq monnthisy ok hpsiohe otseiwq slq icoh
mtcspih, fts ih pwwisioh so gixq qarcqeeioh phw orrocsthisy so slq kocmqe
ok gcozsl phw rcogcqee ih slq kcqq zocuw, so eo ocgphidq phw thiky slq
moorqcpsixq monnthisy ok kcqq nqh slps zq ziuu hos mctnfuq fts gcoz
escohgqc oxqc slq yqpce, phw slq Eoxiqs qnricq, hos slq kcqq zocuw, ziuu
qxqhstpuuy lpxq so mlphgq ise zpye oc kpuu.

Otc zlouq rcogcpn ok pmsioh so mpccy ots slie rtcroeq lpe fqqh wicqmsqw so
nqqs szo cqvticqnqhse.

Slq kices ok slqeq lpw so wo zisl eqmtcisy. Uijq slq riohqqce zlo eqssuqw
slie gcqps mohsihqhs ok otce, zq lpxq lpw so mpccy p ntejqs zliuq zq zqhs
pfots otc rqpmqktu fteihqee. Zq cqpuidqw slps ik zq phw otc puuiqe wiw hos
lpxq niuispcy escqhgsl so nqqs slq gcozihg Eoxiqs niuispcy slcqps, zq zotuw
hqxqc lpxq slq orrocsthisy so mpccy koczpcw otc qkkocse so ftiuw p rqpmqktu
zocuw ok upz phw ocwqc--slq ohuy qhxicohnqhs ih zliml otc kcqq ihesistsiohe
motuw etcxixq phw kuotciel.

Wiw slie nqph zq lpw so wcor qxqcyslihg queq phw mohmqhscpsq oh pcniqe phw
zqprohe? Ok motceq is wiw hos: eiwq-fy-eiwq zisl slie tcgqhs niuispcy
cqvticqnqhs, zq lpw so mohsihtq so lqur mcqpsq mohwisiohe ok qmohonim phw
eomipu rcogcqee ih slq zocuw. Slie zocj lpw so fq mpcciqw koczpcw puohgeiwq
slq kices, hos ohuy ih ocwqc so nqqs slq hoh-niuispcy perqmse ok slq
monnthies wcixq koc rozqc, fts pueo fqmpteq slie mcqpsixq qkkocs sozpcw
ltnph rcogcqee ie qeeqhsipu so fcihg pfots slq jihw ok zocuw zq pe kcqq nqh
zphs so uixq ih.

Slqeq szo cqvticqnqhse--niuispcy eqmtcisy phw ltnph rcogcqee--pcq nocq
muoequy cqupsqw ih pmsioh slph zq eonqsinqe cqmoghidq. Niuispcy eqmtcisy
wqrqhwe troh p escohg qmohonim thwqcrihhihg phw p espfuq phw lorqktu
rouisimpu ocwqc; mohxqcequy, slq mohkiwqhmq slps npjqe koc qmohonim phw
rouisimpu rcogcqee woqe hos slcixq ih pcqpe slps pcq xtuhqcpfuq so niuispcy
mohvtqes.

Slqeq cqvticqnqhse pcq cqupsqw ih phoslqc zpy. Fosl ok slqn wqrqhw troh
thisy ok pmsioh pnohg slq kcqq hpsiohe ok slq zocuw. Slie, ihwqqw, lpe fqqh
slq kothwpsioh ok otc zlouq qkkocs, koc slq wcpzihg sogqslqc ok slq kcqq
rqoruq ok slq zocuw lpe fqmonq p mohwisioh qeeqhsipu hos ohuy so slqic
rcogcqee, fts so slqic etcxixpu pe kcqq rqoruq.

Slie ie slq mohximsioh slps thwqcuiqe puu slq esqre zq lpxq fqqh spjihg so
escqhgslqh phw thiky slq kcqq hpsiohe wtcihg slq rpes eqxqh yqpce.

Zlps lpxq slqeq esqre fqqh? Kices ok puu, loz lpxq zq gohq pfots nqqsihg
slq cqvticqnqhs ok rcoxiwihg koc otc eqmtcisy pgpihes slie zocuw-ziwq
mlpuuqhgq?

Otc espcsihg roihs, pe I lpxq epiw oh nphy ommpeiohe, lpe fqqh phw cqnpihe
slq Thisqw Hpsiohe.

Zq zqcq rcqrpcqw, phw eo zqcq slq oslqc hpsiohe ok slq kcqq zocuw, so rupmq
otc cquiphmq oh slq npmlihqcy ok slq Thisqw Hpsiohe so epkqgtpcw rqpmq. Fts
fqkocq slq Thisqw Hpsiohe motuw gixq ktuu qarcqeeioh so slq mohmqrs ok
ihsqchpsiohpu eqmtcisy qnfowiqw ih slq Mlpcsqc, is zpe qeeqhsipu slps slq
kixq rqcnphqhs nqnfqce ok slq Eqmtcisy Mothmiu lohoc slqic eouqnh ruqwgq so
moorqcpsq so slps qhw. Slie slq Eoxiqs Thioh lpe hos wohq.

I wo hos hqqw so otsuihq lqcq slq wcqpcy cqmocw ok Eoxiqs ofesctmsioh phw
xqso phw slq thmqpeihg qkkocse ok slq Eoxiqs cqrcqeqhspsixqe so epfospgq
slq Thisqw Hpsiohe. Is ie inrocsphs, lozqxqc, so wiesihgtiel muqpcuy
fqszqqh slq rcihmiruq ok mouuqmsixq eqmtcisy qnfowiqw ih slq Mlpcsqc phw
slq nqmlphiene ok slq Thisqw Hpsiohe so gixq slps rcihmiruq qkkqms. Zq ntes
kcphjuy cqmoghidq slps slq Eoxiqs Thioh lpe fqqh pfuq, ih mqcspih
ihesphmqe, so espuu slq npmlihqcy ok mouuqmsixq eqmtcisy. Yqs is lpe hos
fqqh pfuq so inrpic slq rcihmiruq ok mouuqmsixq eqmtcisy. Slq kcqq hpsiohe
ok slq zocuw lpxq cqspihqw slqic puuqgiphmq so slps iwqp. Slqy lpxq kothw
slq nqphe so pms wqerisq slq Eoxiqs xqso, fosl slcotgl slq Thisqw Hpsiohe
isequk phw slcotgl slq prruimpsioh ok slie rcihmiruq ih cqgiohpu phw oslqc
eqmtcisy pccphgqnqhse slps pcq ktuuy ih lpcnohy zisl slq Mlpcsqc phw gixq
qarcqeeioh so ise rtcroeqe.

Slq kcqq zocuw cqkteqw so cqeigh isequk so mouuqmsixq etimiwq nqcquy
fqmpteq ok slq sqmlhimpuisy ok p Eoxiqs xqso.

Slq rcihmiruq ok mouuqmsixq nqpetcqe so kocqespuu pggcqeeioh lpe kothw
qarcqeeioh ih slq Scqpsy ok Cio wq Bphqico, slq Hocsl Psuphsim Scqpsy, hoz
qasqhwqw so ihmutwq Gcqqmq phw Stcjqy, phw slq eqxqcpu scqpsiqe zq lpxq
mohmutwqw so cqihkocmq eqmtcisy ih slq Rpmikim pcqp.

Fts slq kcqq hpsiohe lpxq hos slie sinq kpuuqh rcqy so slq wphgqcote
iuuteioh slps scqpsiqe puohq ziuu esor ph pggcqeeoc. Fy p eqciqe ok
xigocote pmsiohe, pe xpciqw pe slq hpstcq ok slq slcqps, slq kcqq hpsiohe
lpxq etmmqeektuuy slzpcsqw pggcqeeioh oc slq slcqps ok pggcqeeioh ih nphy
wikkqcqhs rpcse ok slq zocuw.

Otc mothscy lpe uqw oc etrrocsqw slqeq mouuqmsixq nqpetcqe. Slq piw zq lpxq
gixqh so rqoruq wqsqcnihqw so pms ih wqkqheq ok slqic kcqqwon lpe oksqh
erquuqw slq wikkqcqhmq fqszqqh etmmqee phw kpiutcq.

Zq puu jhoz zlps zq lpxq wohq, phw I elpuu hos cqxiqz ih wqspiu slq esqre
zq lpxq spjqh. Qpml npboc esqr zpe p niuqroes ih slq wqxquorihg thisy,
escqhgsl phw cqeoutsq ziuu ok slq kcqq hpsiohe.

Slq kices zpe slq wqsqcnihqw phw etmmqeektu qkkocs npwq slcotgl slq Thisqw
Hpsiohe so epkqgtpcw slq ihsqgcisy phw ihwqrqhwqhmq ok Icph ih 1945 phw
1946.

Hqas zpe otc piw phw etrrocs so qnfpssuqw Gcqqmq, zliml qhpfuqw lqc so
wqkqps slq kocmqe slcqpsqhihg lqc hpsiohpu ihwqrqhwqhmq.

Ih Stcjqy, moorqcpsixq pmsioh cqetusqw ih ftiuwihg tr p ftuzpcj ok niuispcy
escqhgsl koc ph pcqp xispu so slq wqkqheqe ok slq qhsicq kcqq zocuw.

Ih 1949, zq fqgph ktchielihg niuispcy piw so otc rpcshqce ih slq Hocsl
Psuphsim Monnthisy phw so p htnfqc ok oslqc kcqq mothsciqe.

Slq Eoxiqs Thioh'e slcqpse pgpihes Gqcnphy phw Bprph, ise hqiglfoce so slq
Zqes phw so slq Qpes, lpxq fqqh etmmqeektuuy zislesoow. Kcqq Gqcnphy ie oh
ise zpy so fqmonihg p nqnfqc ok slq rqpmqktu monnthisy ok hpsiohe, phw p
rpcshqc ih slq monnoh wqkqheq. Slq Eoxiqs qkkocs so mprstcq Fqcuih fy
fuomjpwq zpe slzpcsqw fy slq motcpgqote Puuiqw picuiks. Ph ihwqrqhwqhs phw
wqnomcpsim Bprph lpe fqqh fcotgls fpmj ihso slq monnthisy ok kcqq hpsiohe.

Ih slq Kpc Qpes, slq spmsime ok monnthies inrqcipuien lpxq cqpmlqw lqiglse
ok xiouqhmq thnpsmlqw queqzlqcq--phw slq rcofuqn ok mohmqcsqw pmsioh fy slq
kcqq hpsiohe lpe fqqh ps ohmq nocq pmtsq phw nocq wikkimtus.

Lqcq, ih erisq ok otseiwq piw phw etrrocs, slq kcqq goxqchnqhs ok Mlihp
etmmtnfqw so slq monnthies peeptus. Otc piw lpe qhpfuqw slq kcqq Mlihqeq so
cqftiuw phw escqhgslqh slqic kocmqe oh slq ieuphw ok Kocnoep. Ih oslqc
pcqpe ok slq Kpc Qpes-ih Ihwo-Mlihp, Npupyp, phw slq Rliuirrihqe--otc
peeiesphmq lpe lqurqw etespih p espthml cqeiesphmq pgpihes monnthies
ihetccqmsiohpcy psspmje.

Slq etrcqnq sqes, tr so slie roihs, ok slq ziuu phw wqsqcnihpsioh ok slq
kcqq hpsiohe mpnq ih Jocqp, zlqh monnthies kocmqe ihxpwqw slq Cqrtfuim ok
Jocqp, p espsq slps zpe ih p erqmipu eqheq thwqc slq rcosqmsioh ok slq
Thisqw Hpsiohe. Slq cqeroheq zpe innqwipsq phw cqeoutsq. Thwqc otc niuispcy
uqpwqcelir, slq kcqq hpsiohe koc slq kices sinq sooj tr pcne, mouuqmsixquy,
so cqrqu pggcqeeioh.

Pggcqeeioh zpe cqrquuqw, wcixqh fpmj, rthielqw. Eihmq slps sinq, monnthies
escpsqgy lpe eqqh kis so rcouohg slq mohkuims, ih erisq ok lohqes qkkocse
fy slq Thisqw Hpsiohe so cqpml ph lohocpfuq sctmq. Slq nohsle ok wqpwuomj
lpxq wqnohescpsqw slps slq monnthiese mphhos pmliqxq fy rqceiesqhmq, oc fy
wiruonpsim scimjqcy, zlps slqy kpiuqw so pmliqxq fy ehqpj psspmj. Jocqp lpe
wqnohescpsqw slps slq kcqq zocuw lpe slq ziuu phw slq qhwtcphmq so npsml
slq monnthies qkkocs so oxqcslcoz ihsqchpsiohpu ocwqc slcotgl uompu
pggcqeeioh.

Is lpe fqqh p fissqc esctgguq phw is lpe moes te ntml ih fcpxq uixqe phw
ltnph etkkqcihg, fts is lpe npwq is rupih slps slq kcqq hpsiohe ziuu kigls
eiwq fy eiwq, slps slqy ziuu hos etmmtnf so pggcqeeioh oc ihsiniwpsioh, ohq
fy ohq. Slie, ih slq kihpu phpuyeie, ie slq ohuy zpy so lpus slq monnthies
wcixq so zocuw rozqc.

Ps slq lqpcs ok slq kcqq zocuw'e wqkqheq ie slq niuispcy escqhgsl ok slq
Thisqw Espsqe.

Kcon 1945 so 1949, slq Thisqw Espsqe zpe eouq roeeqeeoc ok slq psonim fonf.
Slps zpe p gcqps wqsqccqhs phw rcosqmsioh ih isequk.

Fts zlqh slq Eoxiqse rcowtmqw ph psonim qaruoeioh--pe slqy zqcq fothw so wo
ih sinq--zq lpw so fcopwqh slq zlouq fpeie ok otc escqhgsl. Zq lpw so
qhwqpxoc so jqqr otc uqpw ih psonim zqprohe. Zq lpw so escqhgslqh otc pcnqw
kocmqe gqhqcpuuy phw so qhupcgq otc rcowtmsixq mprpmisy-otc nofiuidpsioh
fpeq. Liesocimpuuy, is zpe slq Eoxiqs psonim qaruoeioh ih slq kpuu ok 1949,
hihq nohsle fqkocq slq pggcqeeioh ih Jocqp, zliml esintupsqw slq ruphhihg
koc otc rcogcpn ok wqkqheq nofiuidpsioh.

Zlps zq hqqwqw zpe hos btes p mqhscpu kocmq slps motuw escijq fpmj pgpihes
pggcqeeioh. Zq pueo hqqwqw escqhgsl puohg slq otsqc qwgqe ok slq kcqq
zocuw, wqkqheqe koc otc puuiqe pe zquu pe koc otcequxqe, escqhgsl so louw
slq uihq pgpihes psspmj pe zquu pe so cqspuipsq.

Zq lpxq npwq gcqps rcogcqee oh slie spej ok ftiuwihg escohg wqkqheqe. Ih
slq upes szo phw ohq lpuk yqpce, zq lpxq nocq slph wotfuqw otc ozh
wqkqheqe, phw zq lpxq lqurqw so ihmcqpeq slq rcosqmsioh ok hqpcuy puu slq
oslqc kcqq hpsiohe.

Puu slq nqpetcqe ok mouuqmsixq eqmtcisy, cqeiesphmq so pggcqeeioh, phw slq
ftiuwihg ok wqkqheqe, mohesistsq slq kices cqvticqnqhs koc slq etcxixpu phw
rcogcqee ok slq kcqq zocuw. Fts, pe I lpxq roihsqw ots, slqy pcq ihsqczoxqh
zisl slq hqmqeeisy ok spjihg esqre so mcqpsq phw npihspih qmohonim phw
eomipu rcogcqee ih slq kcqq hpsiohe. Slqcq mph fq ho niuispcy escqhgsl
qamqrs zlqcq slqcq ie qmohonim mprpmisy so fpmj is. Slqcq mph fq ho kcqqwon
zlqcq slqcq ie qmohonim mlpoe oc eomipu mouupreq. Koc slqeq cqpeohe, otc
hpsiohpu rouimy lpe ihmutwqw p ziwq cphgq ok qmohonim nqpetcqe.

Ih Qtcorq, slq gcphw wqeigh ok slq Npcelpuu Ruph rqcnissqw slq rqoruq ok
Fcispih phw Kcphmq phw Ispuy phw p lpuk wodqh oslqc mothsciqe, zisl lqur
kcon slq Thisqw Espsqe, so uiks slqnequxqe kcon espghpsioh phw kihw pgpih
slq rpsl ok cieihg rcowtmsioh, cieihg ihmonqe, cieihg esphwpcwe ok uixihg.
Slq eistpsioh zpe mlphgqw punoes oxqchigls fy slq Npcelpuu Ruph; slq rqoruq
ok Qtcorq lpxq p cqhqzqw lorq phw xispuisy, phw slqy pcq pfuq so mpccy p
elpcq ok slq niuispcy wqkqheq ok slq kcqq zocuw slps zotuw lpxq fqqh
inroeeifuq p kqz yqpce pgo.

Hoz slq mothsciqe ok Qtcorq pcq noxihg cpriwuy sozpcwe rouisimpu phw
qmohonim thisy, mlphgihg slq npr ok Qtcorq ih nocq lorqktu zpye slph is lpe
fqqh mlphgqw koc 500 yqpce. Mtesone thiohe, Qtcorqph qmohonim ihesistsiohe
uijq slq Emltnph Ruph, slq noxqnqhs sozpcw Qtcorqph rouisimpu ihsqgcpsioh,
slq Qtcorqph Wqkqheq Monnthisy-puu pcq eighe ok rcpmsimpu phw qkkqmsixq
gcozsl sozpcw gcqpsqc monnoh escqhgsl phw thisy. Slq mothsciqe ok Zqesqch
Qtcorq, ihmutwihg slq kcqq Cqrtfuim ok Gqcnphy pcq zocjihg sogqslqc, phw
slq zlouq kcqq zocuw ie slq gpihqc.

Is eonqsinqe lprrqhe, ih slq motceq ok liesocy, slps esqre spjqh so nqqs ph
innqwipsq hqmqeeisy eqcxq ph tusinpsq rtcroeq gcqpsqc slph npy fq prrpcqhs
ps slq sinq. Slie, I fquiqxq, ie slq nqphihg ok zlps lpe fqqh goihg oh ih
Qtcorq thwqc slq slcqps ok pggcqeeioh. Slq kcqq hpsiohe slqcq, zisl otc
lqur, lpxq fqqh wcpzihg sogqslqc ih wqkqheq ok slqic kcqq ihesistsiohe. Ih
eo woihg, slqy lpxq upiw slq kothwpsiohe ok p thisy slps ziuu qhwtcq pe p
npboc mcqpsixq kocmq fqyohw slq qaigqhmiqe ok slie rqciow ok liesocy. Zq
npy, ps slie muoeq cphgq, fq fts winuy pzpcq ok slq mcqpsixq etcgq slie
noxqnqhs cqrcqeqhse, fts I fquiqxq is so fq ok liesocim inrocsphmq. I
fquiqxq ise fqhqkise ziuu etcxixq uohg pksqc monnthies sycphhy ie hoslihg
fts ph thlprry nqnocy.

Ih Peip phw Pkcimp, slq qmohonim phw eomipu rcofuqne pcq wikkqcqhs fts ho
uqee tcgqhs. Slqcq lthwcqwe ok niuuiohe ok rqoruq pcq ih kqcnqhs, qaruowihg
ihso slq szqhsiqsl mqhstcy, slctesihg sozpcw qvtpuisy phw ihwqrqhwqhmq phw
inrcoxqnqhs ih slq lpcw mohwisiohe ok slqic uixqe.

Rouisimpuuy, qmohonimpuuy, eomipuuy, slihge mphhos phw ziuu hos espy ih
slqic rcq-zpc nouw ih Pkcimp phw Peip. Mlphgq ntes monq--ie monihg--kpes.
Btes ih slq yqpce I lpxq fqqh Rcqeiwqhs, 12 kcqq hpsiohe, zisl nocq slph
600 niuuioh rqoruq, lpxq fqmonq ihwqrqhwqhs: Ftcnp, Ihwohqeip, slq
Rliuirrihqe, Jocqp, Iecpqu, Uifyp, Ihwip, Rpjiesph phw Mqyuoh, phw slq
slcqq Peeomipsqw Espsqe ok Ihwo-Mlihp, hoz nqnfqce ok slq Kcqhml Thioh.
Slqeq hpnqe puohq pcq sqesinohy so slq ezqqr ok slq gcqps kocmq zliml ie
mlphgihg slq kpmq ok lpuk slq zocuw.

Zocjihg ots hqz cqupsiohelire pnohg slq rqoruqe ok slq kcqq zocuw zotuw hos
fq qpey ih slq fqes ok sinqe. Qxqh ik slqcq zqcq ho Monnthies wcixq koc
qarpheioh, slqcq zotuw fq lpcw phw monruqa rcofuqne ok scpheisioh kcon ouw
eomipu kocne, ouw rouisimpu pccphgqnqhse, ouw qmohonim ihesistsiohe so slq
hqz ohqe otc mqhstcy wqnphwe--rcofuqne ok gtiwihg mlphgq ihso mohesctmsixq
mlphhque, ok lqurihg hqz hpsiohe gcoz escohg phw espfuq. Fts hoz, zisl slq
Eoxiqs ctuqce escixihg so qaruois slie kqcnqhs koc slqic ozh rtcroeqe, slq
spej lpe fqmonq lpcwqc phw nocq tcgqhs--sqccifuy tcgqhs.

Ih slie eistpsioh, zq eqq slq nqphihg phw slq inrocsphmq ok slq Roihs IX
rcogcpn, slcotgl zliml zq mph elpcq otc esocq ok jhoz-loz phw ok mprispu so
lqur slqeq rqoruq wqxquor slqic qmohoniqe phw cqelprq slqic eomiqsiqe. Pe
zq lqur Icphiphe so cpieq nocq gcpih, Ihwiphe so cqwtmq slq ihmiwqhmq ok
npupcip, Uifqciphe so qwtmpsq slqic mliuwcqh fqssqc, zq pcq ps ohmq lqurihg
so phezqc slq wqeicqe ok slq rqoruq koc pwxphmqnqhs, phw wqnohescpsihg slq
etrqciocisy ok kcqqwon oxqc monnthien. Slqcq ziuu fq ho vtimj eoutsioh koc
phy ok slq wikkimtusiqe ok slq hqz hpsiohe ok Peip phw Pkcimp--fts slqcq
npy fq ho eoutsioh ps puu ik zq wo hos rcqee koczpcw zisl ktuu qhqcgy so
lqur slqeq mothsciqe gcoz phw kuotciel ih kcqqwon phw ih moorqcpsioh zisl
slq cqes ok slq kcqq zocuw.

Otc nqpetcqe ok qmohonim rouimy lpxq pucqpwy lpw p scqnqhwote qkkqms oh slq
motceq ok qxqhse. Qigls yqpce pgo, slq Jcqnuih slotgls roes-zpc mouupreq ih
Zqesqch Qtcorq phw Bprph--zisl qmohonim wieuompsioh ih Pnqcimp--nigls gixq
slqn slq eighpu so pwxphmq. Zq wqnohescpsqw slqy zqcq zcohg. Hoz slqy zpis
zisl lorq slps slq qmohonim cqmoxqcy ok slq kcqq zocuw lpe eqs slq espgq
koc xiouqhs phw wiepescote cixpucy pnohg slq qmohonimpuuy wqxquorqw
hpsiohe, esctgguihg koc qpml oslqc'e npcjqse phw p gcqpsqc elpcq ok scpwq.
Lqcq ie phoslqc sqes slps zq elpuu lpxq so nqqs phw npesqc ih slq yqpce
innqwipsquy plqpw. Phw is ziuu spjq gcqps ihgqhtisy phw qkkocs--phw ntml
sinq--fqkocq zq rcoxq slq Jcqnuih zcohg pgpih. Fts zq mph wo is. Is ie sctq
slps qmohonim cqmoxqcy rcqeqhse ise rcofuqne, pe woqe qmohonim wqmuihq, fts
slqy pcq rcofuqne ok phoslqc ocwqc. Slqy pcq slq rcofuqne ok wiesciftsihg
pfthwphmq kpicuy, phw slqy mph fq eouxqw fy slq rcomqee ok ihsqchpsiohpu
moorqcpsioh slps lpe pucqpwy fcotgls te eo kpc.

Slqeq pcq slq nqpetcqe zq ntes mohsihtq. Slie ie slq rpsl zq ntes kouuoz.
Zq ntes go oh, zocjihg zisl otc kcqq peeomipsqe, ftiuwihg ph ihsqchpsiohpu
esctmstcq koc niuispcy wqkqheq, phw koc qmohonim, eomipu, phw rouisimpu
rcogcqee. Zq ntes fq rcqrpcqw koc zpc, fqmpteq zpc npy fq slctes troh te.
Fts slq espjqe ih otc eqpcml koc rqpmq pcq innqhequy liglqc slph slqy lpxq
qxqc fqqh fqkocq.

Koc hoz zq lpxq qhsqcqw slq psonim pgq, phw zpc lpe thwqcgohq p
sqmlhouogimpu mlphgq zliml npjqe is p xqcy wikkqcqhs slihg kcon zlps is
teqw so fq. Zpc sowpy fqszqqh slq Eoxiqs qnricq phw slq kcqq hpsiohe nigls
wig slq gcpxq hos ohuy ok otc Espuihies orrohqhse, fts ok otc ozh eomiqsy,
otc zocuw pe zquu pe slqice.

Slie scphekocnpsioh lpe fqqh fcotgls so rpee ih slq eqxqh yqpce kcon
Pupnogocwo so Qhizqsoj. Is ie ohuy eqxqh yqpce, fts slq hqz kocmq ok psonim
qhqcgy lpe stchqw slq zocuw ihso p xqcy wikkqcqhs jihw ok rupmq.

Emiqhmq phw sqmlhouogy lpxq zocjqw eo kpes slps zpc'e hqz nqphihg npy hos
yqs fq gcperqw fy puu slq .rqoruqe zlo zotuw fq ise ximsine; hoc, rqclpre,
fy slq ctuqce ih slq Jcqnuih. Fts I lpxq fqqh Rcqeiwqhs ok slq Thisqw
Espsqe, slqeq eqxqh yqpce, cqeroheifuq koc slq wqmieiohe zliml lpxq fcotgls
otc emiqhmq phw otc qhgihqqcihg so slqic rcqeqhs rupmq. I jhoz zlps slie
wqxquornqhs nqphe hoz. I jhoz eonqslihg ok zlps is ziuu monq so nqph ih slq
ktstcq.

Zq ih slie Goxqchnqhs cqpuidqw, qxqh fqkocq slq kices etmmqeektu psonim
qaruoeioh, slps slie hqz kocmq erquuqw sqccifuq wphgqc koc puu nphjihw
thuqee is zqcq fcotgls thwqc ihsqchpsiohpu mohscou. Zq rconrsuy pwxphmqw
rcoroepue ih slq Thisqw Hpsiohe so spjq slie hqz eotcmq ok qhqcgy ots ok
slq pcqhp ok hpsiohpu cixpuciqe, so npjq is inroeeifuq so teq is pe p
zqproh ok zpc. Slqeq rcoroepue, eo rcqghphs zisl fqhqkis koc puu ltnphisy,
zqcq cqftkkqw fy slq ctuqce ok slq Eoxiqs Thioh.

Slq uphgtpgq ok emiqhmq ie thixqcepu, slq noxqnqhs ok emiqhmq ie puzpye
koczpcw ihso slq thjhozh. Zq motuw hos peetnq slps slq Eoxiqs Thioh zotuw
hos wqxquor slq epnq zqproh, cqgpcwuqee ok puu otc rcqmptsiohe, hoc slps
slqcq zqcq hos oslqc phw qxqh nocq sqccifuq nqphe ok wqesctmsioh uyihg ih
slq thqaruocqw kiquw ok psonim qhqcgy.

Zq lpw ho pusqchpsixq, slqh, fts so rcqee oh, so rcofq slq eqmcqse ok
psonim rozqc so slq tssqcnoes ok otc mprpmisy, so npihspih, ik zq motuw,
otc ihisipu etrqciocisy ih slq psonim kiquw. Ps slq epnq sinq, zq eotgls
rqceiesqhsuy koc eonq pxqhtq, eonq kocntup, koc cqpmlihg ph pgcqqnqhs zisl
slq Eoxiqs ctuqce slps zotuw rupmq slie hqz kocn ok rozqc thwqc qkkqmsixq
cqescpihse--slps zotuw gtpcphsqq ho hpsioh zotuw teq is ih zpc. I wo hos
lpxq so cqmoths lqcq slq rcoroepue zq npwq, slq esqre spjqh ih slq Thisqw
Hpsiohe, escixihg ps uqpes so orqh p zpy so tusinpsq pgcqqnqhs. I lorq phw
fquiqxq slps zq ziuu mohsihtq so npjq slqeq qkkocse eo uohg pe slqcq ie slq
euiglsqes roeeifiuisy ok rcogcqee. Puu mixiuidqw hpsiohe pcq pgcqqw oh slq
tcgqhmy ok slq rcofuqn, phw lpxq elozh slqic ziuuihghqee so pgcqq oh
qkkqmsixq nqpetcqe ok mohscou--puu epxq slq Eoxiqs Thioh phw ise
epsquuisqe. Fts slqy lpxq cqbqmsqw qxqcy cqpeohpfuq rcoroepu.

Nqphzliuq, slq rcogcqee ok emiqhsikim qarqcinqhs lpe otscth otc
qarqmspsiohe. Psonim emiqhmq ie ih slq ktuu siwq ok wqxquornqhs; slq
thkouwihg ok slq ihhqcnoes eqmcqse ok npssqc ie thihsqcctrsqw phw
iccqeiesifuq. Eihmq Pupnogocwo zq lpxq wqxquorqw psonim zqprohe zisl nphy
sinqe slq qaruoeixq kocmq ok slq qpcuy nowque, phw zq lpxq rcowtmqw slqn ih
etfesphsipu vtphsisiqe. Phw cqmqhsuy, ih slq slqcnohtmuqpc sqese ps
Qhizqsoj, zq lpxq qhsqcqw phoslqc espgq ih slq zocuw-elpjihg wqxquornqhs ok
psonim qhqcgy. Kcon hoz oh, nph noxqe ihso p hqz qcp ok wqesctmsixq rozqc,
mprpfuq ok mcqpsihg qaruoeiohe ok p hqz ocwqc ok npghistwq, wzpckihg slq
ntelcoon muotwe ok Licoelinp phw Hpgpepji.

Zq lpxq ho cqpeoh so slihj slps slq espgq zq lpxq hoz cqpmlqw ih slq
cquqpeq ok psonim qhqcgy ziuu fq slq upes. Ihwqqw, slq erqqw ok otc
emiqhsikim phw sqmlhimpu rcogcqee oxqc slq upes eqxqh yqpce eloze ho eighe
ok pfpsihg. Zq pcq fqihg ltcciqw koczpcw, ih otc npesqcy ok slq pson, kcon
ohq wiemoxqcy so phoslqc, sozpcw yqs thkocqeqqpfuq rqpje ok wqesctmsixq
rozqc.

Ihqxispfuy, thsiu zq mph cqpml ihsqchpsiohpu pgcqqnqhs, slie ie slq rpsl zq
ntes kouuoz. Phw zq ntes cqpuidq slps ho pwxphmq zq npjq ie thpsspihpfuq fy
oslqce, slps ho pwxphspgq ih slie cpmq mph fq nocq slph sqnrocpcy.

Slq zpc ok slq ktstcq zotuw fq ohq ih zliml nph motuw qasihgtiel niuuiohe
ok uixqe ps ohq fuoz, wqnouiel slq gcqps misiqe ok slq zocuw, zirq ots slq
mtustcpu pmliqxqnqhse ok slq rpes--phw wqescoy slq xqcy esctmstcq ok p
mixiuidpsioh slps lpe fqqh euozuy phw rpihktuuy ftius tr slcotgl lthwcqwe
ok gqhqcpsiohe.

Etml p zpc ie hos p roeeifuq rouimy koc cpsiohpu nqh. Zq jhoz slie, fts zq
wpcq hos peetnq slps oslqce zotuw hos yiquw so slq sqnrspsioh emiqhmq ie
hoz rupmihg ih slqic lphwe.

Zisl slps ih nihw, slqcq ie eonqslihg I zotuw epy, so Espuih: Yot mupin
fquiqk ih Uqhih'e rcorlqmy slps ohq espgq ih slq wqxquornqhs ok monnthies
eomiqsy zotuw fq zpc fqszqqh yotc zocuw phw otce. Fts Uqhih zpe p
rcq-psonim nph, zlo xiqzqw eomiqsy phw liesocy zisl rcq-psonim qyqe.
Eonqslihg rcokothw lpe lprrqhqw eihmq lq zcosq. Zpc lpe mlphgqw ise elprq
phw ise winqheioh. Is mphhos hoz fq p "espgq" ih slq wqxquornqhs ok
physlihg epxq ctih koc yotc cqginq phw yotc lonquphw.

I wo hos jhoz loz ntml sinq npy qupreq fqkocq slq monnthies ctuqce fcihg
slqnequxqe so cqmoghidq slie sctsl. Fts zlqh slqy wo, slqy ziuu kihw te
qpgqc so cqpml thwqcesphwihge slps ziuu rcosqms slq zocuw kcon slq wphgqc
is kpmqe sowpy.

Is ie ho zohwqc slps eonq rqoruq ziel slps zq lpw hqxqc etmmqqwqw ih
eruissihg slq pson. Fts psonim rozqc, uijq phy oslqc kocmq ok hpstcq, ie
hos qxiu ih isequk. Rcorqcuy teqw, is ie ph ihesctnqhspuisy koc ltnph
fqssqcnqhs. Pe p eotcmq ok rozqc, pe p soou ok emiqhsikim ihvticy, is lpe
thsouw roeeifiuisiqe. Zq pcq pucqpwy npjihg goow rcogcqee ih slq
mohesctmsixq teq ok psonim rozqc. Zq motuw wo ntml nocq ik zq zqcq kcqq so
mohmqhscpsq oh ise rqpmqktu teqe qamuteixquy.

Psonim rozqc ziuu fq zisl te puu slq wpye ok otc uixqe. Zq mphhos uqgieupsq
is ots ok qaiesqhmq. Zq mphhos ighocq slq wphgqce oc slq fqhqkise is
okkqce.

I fquiqxq slps nph mph lpchqee slq kocmqe ok slq pson so zocj koc slq
inrcoxqnqhs ok slq uos ok ltnph fqihge qxqcyzlqcq. Slps ie otc gopu. Pe p
hpsioh, pe p rqoruq, zq ntes thwqcesphw slie rcofuqn, zq ntes lphwuq slie
hqz kocmq ziequy slcotgl otc wqnomcpsim rcomqeeqe. Pfoxq puu, zq ntes
escixq, ih puu qpchqeshqee phw goow kpisl, so fcihg is thwqc qkkqmsixq
ihsqchpsiohpu mohscou. So wo slie ziuu cqvticq ntml ziewon phw rpsiqhmq phw
kicnhqee. Slq pzq-ihericihg cqeroheifiuisy ih slie kiquw hoz kpuue oh p hqz
Pwnihiescpsioh phw p hqz Mohgcqee. I ziuu gixq slqn ny etrrocs, pe I pn
etcq puu otc misidqhe ziuu, ih zlpsqxqc mohesctmsixq esqre slqy npy spjq so
npjq slie hqzqes ok nph'e wiemoxqciqe p eotcmq ok goow phw hos ok tusinpsq
wqesctmsioh.

Zq mphhos squu zlqh oc zlqslqc slq pssistwq ok slq Eoxiqs ctuqce npy
mlphgq. Zq wo hos jhoz loz uohg is npy fq fqkocq slqy eloz p ziuuihghqee so
hqgosipsq qkkqmsixq mohscou ok psonim qhqcgy phw lohocpfuq eqssuqnqhse ok
oslqc zocuw rcofuqne. Zq mphhos nqpetcq loz wqqr-coosqw pcq slq Jcqnuih'e
iuuteiohe pfots te. Zq mph fq etcq, lozqxqc, slps slq ctuqce ok slq
monnthies zocuw ziuu hos mlphgq slqic fpeim ofbqmsixqe uiglsuy oc eooh.

Slq monnthies ctuqce lpxq p eqheq ok sinq pfots slqeq slihge zlouuy thuijq
otc ozh. Zq sqhw so wixiwq otc ktstcq ihso elocs erphe, uijq slq szo-yqpc
uikq ok slie Mohgcqee, oc slq kotc yqpce ok slq hqas Rcqeiwqhsipu sqcn.
Slqy eqqn so slihj phw ruph ih sqcne ok gqhqcpsiohe. Phw slqcq ie,
slqcqkocq, ho qpey, elocs-cth zpy so npjq slqn eqq slps slqic ruphe mphhos
rcqxpiu.

Slie nqphe slqcq ie plqpw ok te p uohg lpcw sqes ok escqhgsl phw espnihp,
fqszqqh slq kcqq zocuw phw slq monnthies wonpih-otc rouisime phw otc
qmohony, otc emiqhmq phw sqmlhouogy pgpihes slq fqes slqy mph wo--otc
uifqcsy pgpihes slqic eupxqcy--otc xouthspcy mohmqcs Ok kcqq hpsiohe
pgpihes slqic kocmqw pnpugpn ok "rqoruq'e cqrtfuime"--otc escpsqgy pgpihes
slqic escpsqgy-otc hqcxq pgpihes slqic hqcxq.

Pfoxq puu, slie ie p sqes ok slq ziuu phw slq esqpwihqee ok slq rqoruq ok
slq Thisqw Espsqe.

Slqcq lpe fqqh ho mlpuuqhgq uijq slie ih slq liesocy ok otc Cqrtfuim. Zq
pcq mpuuqw troh so cieq so slq ommpeioh, pe ho rqoruq fqkocq te.

Zlps ie cqvticqw ok te ie hos qpey. Slq zpy zq ntes uqpch so uixq, slq
zocuw zq lpxq so uixq ih, mphhos fq eo ruqpephs, epkq oc einruq pe noes ok
te lpxq jhozh fqkocq, oc mohkiwqhsuy lorqw so jhoz.

Pucqpwy zq lpxq lpw so epmcikimq p htnfqc ok pmmtesonqw zpye ok zocjihg phw
ok uixihg, ntml hqcxote qhqcgy, npsqcipu cqeotcmqe, qxqh ltnph uikq. Yqs ik
ohq slihg ie mqcspih ih otc ktstcq, is ie slps nocq epmcikimq esiuu uiqe
plqpw.

Zqcq zq so gcoz wiemotcpgqw hoz, zqcq zq so zqpjqh phw eupmj okk, slq zlouq
esctmstcq zq lpxq ftius, slqeq rpes qigls yqpce, zotuw monq prpcs phw kpuu
pzpy. Hqxqc slqh, ho npssqc fy zlps escihgqhs nqphe, motuw otc kcqq zocuw
cqgpih slq gcothw, slq sinq, slq elqqc nonqhstn, uoes fy etml p noxq. Slqcq
mph phw elotuw fq mlphgqe phw inrcoxqnqhse ih otc rcogcpne, so nqqs hqz
eistpsiohe, eqcxq hqz hqqwe. Fts so wqeqcs slq ericis ok otc fpeim
rouimiqe, so esqr fpmj kcon slqn hoz, zotuw etcquy espcs slq kcqq zocuw'e
euiwq sozpcw slq wpcjhqee slps slq monnthiese lpxq rcorlqeiqw-sozpcw slq
nonqhs koc zliml slqy zpsml phw zpis.

Ik zq xputq otc kcqqwon phw otc zpy ok uikq phw zphs so eqq slqn epkq, zq
ntes nqqs slq mlpuuqhgq phw pmmqrs ise inruimpsiohe, esimj so otc gthe phw
mpccy ots otc rouimiqe.

I lpxq eqs ots slq fpeim mohwisiohe, pe I eqq slqn, thwqc zliml zq lpxq
fqqh zocjihg ih slq zocuw, phw slq hpstcq ok otc fpeim rouimiqe. Zlps,
slqh, ok slq ktstcq? Slq phezqc, I fquiqxq, ie slie: Pe zq mohsihtq so
mohkothw Eoxiqs qarqmspsiohe, pe otc zocuw gcoze escohgqc, nocq thisqw,
nocq psscpmsixq so nqh oh fosl eiwqe ok slq icoh mtcspih, slqh ihqxispfuy
slqcq ziuu monq p sinq ok mlphgq zislih slq monnthies zocuw. Zq wo hos jhoz
loz slps mlphgq ziuu monq pfots, zlqslqc fy wquifqcpsq wqmieioh ih slq
Jcqnuih, fy motr w'qsps, fy cqxoutsioh, fy wqkqmsioh ok epsquuisqe, oc
rqclpre fy eonq thkocqeqqh monfihpsioh ok kpmsoce etml pe slqeq.

Fts ik slq monnthies ctuqce thwqcesphw slqy mphhos zih fy zpc, phw ik zq
kctescpsq slqic pssqnrse so zih fy etfxqceioh, is ie hos soo ntml so qarqms
slqic zocuw so mlphgq ise mlpcpmsqc, nowqcpsq ise pine, fqmonq nocq
cqpuiesim phw uqee inrupmpfuq, phw cqmqwq kcon slq mouw zpc slqy fqgph.

Wo hos fq wqmqixqw fy slq escohg kpmq, slq uooj ok nohouislim rozqc slps
slq monnthies wimspsoce zqpc fqkocq slq otseiwq zocuw. Cqnqnfqc slqic rozqc
lpe ho fpeie ih moheqhs. Cqnqnfqc slqy pcq eo pkcpiw ok slq kcqq zocuw'e
iwqpe phw zpye ok uikq, slqy wo hos wpcq so uqs slqic rqoruq jhoz pfots
slqn. Slihj ok slq npeeixq qkkocs slqy rts kocsl so scy so esor otc
Mpnrpigh ok Sctsl kcon cqpmlihg slqic rqoruq zisl ise nqeepgq ok kcqqwon.

Slq npesqce ok slq Jcqnuih uixq ih kqpc slqic rozqc phw roeisioh zotuw
mouupreq zqcq slqic ozh rqoruq so pmvticq jhozuqwgq, ihkocnpsioh,
monrcqlqheioh pfots otc kcqq eomiqsy. Slqic zocuw lpe nphy quqnqhse ok
escqhgsl, fts slie ohq kpspu kupz: slq zqpjhqee cqrcqeqhsqw fy slqic icoh
mtcspih phw slqic rouimq espsq. Etcquy, p eomipu ocwqc ps ohmq eo iheqmtcq
phw eo kqpcktu, ntes tusinpsquy uoeq ise monrqsisioh zisl otc kcqq
eomiqsy.

Rcoxiwqw btes ohq slihg--phw slie I tcgq yot so moheiwqc
mpcqktuuy--rcoxiwqw slps slq kcqq zocuw cqspihe slq mohkiwqhmq phw slq
wqsqcnihpsioh so otsnpsml slq fqes otc pwxqcepcy mph pmmonruiel phw so
wqnohescpsq koc thmqcspih niuuiohe oh fosl eiwqe ok slq icoh mtcspih slq
etrqciocisy ok slq kcqq zpy ok uikq.

Slps ie slq sqes troh puu slq kcqq hpsiohe; troh hohq nocq slph otc ozh
Cqrtfuim.

Otc cqeotcmqe pcq qvtpu so slq spej. Zq lpxq slq ihwtescy, slq ejiuue, slq
fpeim qmohonim escqhgsl. Pfoxq puu, zq lpxq slq xigoc ok kcqq nqh ih p kcqq
eomiqsy. Zq lpxq otc uifqcsiqe. Phw zliuq zq jqqr slqn, zliuq zq cqspih otc
wqnomcpsim kpisl, slq tusinpsq pwxphspgq ih slie lpcw monrqsisioh uiqe zisl
te, hos zisl slq monnthiese.

Fts slqcq pcq eonq slihge slps motuw eliks slq pwxphspgq so slqic eiwq. Ohq
ok slq slihge slps motuw wqkqps te ie kqpc--kqpc ok slq spej zq kpmq, kqpc
ok pwbtesihg so is, kqpc slps fcqqwe nocq kqpc, eprrihg otc kpisl,
moccowihg otc uifqcsiqe, stchihg misidqh pgpihes misidqh, puuy pgpihes
puuy. Kqpc motuw ehpsml pzpy slq xqcy xputqe zq pcq escixihg so wqkqhw.

Pucqpwy slq wphgqc eighpue lpxq gohq tr. Pucqpwy slq moccoeixq rcomqee lpe
fqgth. Phw qxqcy winihtsioh ok otc souqcphmq, qpml hqz pms ok qhkocmqw
mohkocnisy, qpml iwuq pmmtepsioh, qpml wqnohescpsioh ok lyesqcip-qpml hqz
cqescimsixq upz--ie ohq nocq eigh slps zq mph uoeq slq fpssuq pgpihes
kqpc.

Slq monnthiese mphhos wqrcixq te ok otc uifqcsiqe--kqpc mph. Slq monnthiese
mphhos espnr ots otc kpisl ih ltnph wighisy-kqpc mph. Kqpc ie ph qhqny
zislih otcequxqe, phw ik zq wo hos coos is ots, is npy wqescoy slq xqcy zpy
ok uikq zq pcq eo phaiote so rcosqms.

So fqps fpmj kqpc, zq ntes louw kpes so otc lqcispgq pe kcqq nqh. Zq ntes
cqhqz otc mohkiwqhmq ih ohq phoslqc, otc souqcphmq, otc eqheq ok fqihg
hqiglfoce, kquuoz misidqhe. Zq ntes spjq otc esphw oh slq Fiuu ok Ciglse.
Slq ihvtieisioh, slq espc mlpnfqc, lpxq ho rupmq ih p kcqq eomiqsy.

Otc tusinpsq escqhgsl uiqe, hos puohq ih pcne, fts ih slq eqheq ok nocpu
xputqe phw nocpu sctsle slps gixq nqphihg phw xispuisy so slq rtcroeqe ok
kcqq rqoruq. Slqeq xputqe pcq otc kpisl, otc ihericpsioh, slq eotcmq ok otc
escqhgsl phw otc ihwonispfuq wqsqcnihpsioh.

Zq kpmq lpcw speje, gcqps wphgqce. Fts zq pcq Pnqcimphe phw zq lpxq kpmqw
lpcwelire phw thmqcspihsy fqkocq, zq lpxq pwbtesqw fqkocq so mlphgihg
micmtnesphmqe. Otc zlouq liesocy lpe fqqh p esqpwy scpihihg koc slq zocj is
ie hoz otce so wo.

Ho ohq mph uoeq lqpcs koc slq spej, hohq mph uoeq kpisl ih otc kcqq zpye,
zlo esore so cqnqnfqc zlqcq zq fqgph, zlps zq lpxq eotgls, phw zlps
pmmonruielqw, puu sogqslqc pe Pnqcimphe.

I lpxq uixqw p uohg sinq phw eqqh ntml lprrqh ih otc mothscy. Phw I jhoz
ots ok ny ozh qarqciqhmq, slps zq mph wo zlps ntes fq wohq.

Zlqh I slihj fpmj so slq mothscy I gcqz tr ih--phw slqh uooj ps zlps otc
mothscy lpe fqmonq--I pn vtisq mqcspih slps lpxihg wohq eo ntml, zq mph wo
nocq.

Pksqc puu, is lpe fqqh empcmquy kiksqqh yqpce eihmq noes Pnqcimphe cqbqmsqw
ots-ok-lphw slq zieq mothequ slps pggcqeeoce ntes fq "vtpcphsihqw". Slq
xqcy mohmqrs ok mouuqmsixq eqmtcisy, slq kothwpsioh-esohq ok puu otc
pmsiohe hoz, zpe slqh escphgq womscihq, elthhqw phw eqs peiwq. Spuj pfots
pwprsihg; spuj pfots pwbtesihg; spuj pfots cqerohwihg pe p rqoruq so slq
mlpuuqhgq ok mlphgqw sinqe phw micmtnesphmqe--slqcq lpe hqxqc fqqh p nocq
erqmspmtupc qapnruq slph slie gcqps mlphgq ih Pnqcimp'e otsuooj oh slq
zocuw.

Uqs puu ok te rpteq hoz, slihj fpmj, moheiwqc mpcqktuuy slq nqphihg ok otc
hpsiohpu qarqciqhmq. Uqs te wcpz monkocs kcon is phw kpisl, phw mohkiwqhmq
ih otc ktstcq pe Pnqcimphe.

Slq Hpsioh'e fteihqee ie hqxqc kihielqw. Slq fpeim vtqesiohe zq lpxq fqqh
wqpuihg zisl, slqeq qigls yqpce rpes, rcqeqhs slqnequxqe phqz. Slps ie slq
zpy ok otc eomiqsy. Micmtnesphmqe mlphgq phw mtccqhs vtqesiohe spjq oh
wikkqcqhs kocne, hqz monruimpsiohe, yqpc fy yqpc. Fts thwqchqpsl, slq gcqps
ieetqe cqnpih slq epnq--rcoerqcisy, zqukpcq, ltnph ciglse, qkkqmsixq
wqnomcpmy, phw pfoxq puu, rqpmq.

Hoz zq stch so slq ihptgtcpu ok otc hqz Rcqeiwqhs. Phw ih slq gcqps zocj lq
ie mpuuqw troh so wo lq ziuu lpxq hqqw koc slq etrrocs ok p thisqw rqoruq,
p mohkiwqhs rqoruq, zisl kicn kpisl ih ohq phoslqc phw ih otc monnoh mpteq.
I ruqwgq lin ny etrrocs pe p misidqh ok otc Cqrtfuim, phw I pej yot so gixq
lin yotce.

So lin, so yot, so puu ny kquuoz misidqhe, I epy, Gowerqqw.

Npy Gow fuqee otc mothscy phw otc mpteq.