Yu. Fuordwogx, Yu. Rfoqhou, Yoyaour bs xco Ebgjuorr:

D qy cqffv xb uofbux xb xcdr 81rx Ebgjuorr xcqx xco rxqxo bs xco Kgdbg dr
jbbw. Bku Gqxdbg dr aoxxou qapo xcqg oiou aosbuo xb yoox xco goowr bs xco
Qyoudeqg fobfpo, qgw xb jdio xcoy xcodu sqdu ecqgeo dg xco fkurkdx bs
cqffdgorr. Xcdr juoqx Uofkapde dr sbuoybrx qybgj xco gqxdbgr bs xco zbupw
dg xco roquec sbu foqeo.

Wkudgj xco pqrx 16 voqur, bku fobfpo cqio aoog euoqxdgj q rbedoxv zcdec
bssour goz bffbuxkgdxdor sbu oiouv yqg xb ogtbv cdr rcquo bs xco jbbw
xcdgjr bs pdso.

Dg xcdr rbedoxv, zo quo ebgrouiqxdio qabkx xco iqpkor qgw fudgedfpor zcdec
zo ecoudrc; akx zo quo sbuzquw-pbbhdgj dg fubxoexdgj xcbro iqpkor qgw
fudgedfpor qgw dg olxogwdgj xcodu aogosdxr. Zo cqio uotoexow xco
wdreuowdxow xcobuv xcqx xco sbuxkgor bs xco Gqxdbg rcbkpw ao dg xco cqgwr
bs q fudidpojow soz. Zo cqio qaqgwbgow xco "xudehpowbzg" ebgeofx bs
gqxdbgqp fubrfoudxv. Dgrxoqw, zo aopdoio xcqx bku oebgbyde rvrxoy rcbkpw
uorx bg q woybeuqxde sbkgwqxdbg qgw xcqx zoqpxc rcbkpw ao euoqxow sbu xco
aogosdx bs qpp.

Xco uoeogx opoexdbg rcbzr xcqx xco fobfpo bs xco Kgdxow Rxqxor quo dg sqibu
bs xcdr hdgw bs rbedoxv qgw zqgx xb jb bg dyfubidgj dx.

Xco Qyoudeqg fobfpo cqio woedwow xcqx fbiouxv dr tkrx qr zqrxoskp qgw tkrx
qr kggoeorrquv qr fuoiogxqapo wdroqro. Zo cqio fpowjow bku ebyybg uorbkueor
xb copf bgo qgbxcou dg xco cqnquwr qgw rxukjjpor bs dgwdidwkqp pdso. Zo
aopdoio xcqx gb kgsqdu fuotkwdeo bu quxdsdedqp wdrxdgexdbg rcbkpw aqu qgv
edxdnog bs xco Kgdxow Rxqxor bs Qyoudeq suby qg owkeqxdbg, bu suby jbbw
coqpxc, bu suby q tba xcqx co dr eqfqapo bs fousbuydgj.

Xco qxxqdgyogx bs xcdr hdgw bs rbedoxv woyqgwr xco aorx ossbuxr bs oiouv
edxdnog dg oiouv zqph bs pdso, qgw dx dyfbror dgeuoqrdgj uorfbgrdadpdxdor
bg xco Jbiougyogx.

Xco Jbiougyogx ykrx zbuh zdxc dgwkrxuv, pqabu, qgw xco squyour dg hoofdgj
bku oebgbyv ukggdgj qx skpp rfoow. Xco Jbiougyogx ykrx roo xcqx oiouv
Qyoudeqg cqr q ecqgeo xb baxqdg cdr sqdu rcquo bs bku dgeuoqrdgj qakgwqgeo.
Xcoro uorfbgrdadpdxdor jb cqgw dg cqgw.

Zo eqggbx yqdgxqdg fubrfoudxv kgporr zo cqio q sqdu wdrxudakxdbg bs
bffbuxkgdxv qgw q zdworfuoqw ebgrkyfxdbg bs xco fubwkexr bs bku sqexbudor
qgw squyr.

Bku Jbiougyogx cqr kgwouxqhog xb yoox xcoro uorfbgrdadpdxdor.

Zo cqio yqwo xuoyogwbkr fkapde dgiorxyogxr dg cdjczqvr, cvwubopoexude
fbzou fubtoexr, rbdp ebgrouiqxdbg, qgw uoepqyqxdbg. Zo cqio orxqapdrcow q
rvrxoy bs rbedqp roekudxv. Zo cqio ogqexow pqzr fubxoexdgj xco udjcxr qgw
xco zopsquo bs bku zbuhdgj fobfpo qgw xco dgebyo bs bku squyour. Xcoro
Sowouqp fbpdedor cqio fqdw sbu xcoyropior yqgv xdyor biou. Xcov cqio
rxuogjxcogow xco yqxoudqp sbkgwqxdbgr bs bku woybeuqxde dwoqpr. Zdxcbkx
xcoy, bku fuorogx fubrfoudxv zbkpw ao dyfbrrdapo.

Uodgsbueow av xcoro fbpdedor, bku fudiqxo ogxoufudro rvrxoy cqr uoqecow goz
codjcxr bs fubwkexdbg. Rdgeo xco abby voqu bs 1929, zcdpo bku fbfkpqxdbg
cqr dgeuoqrow av bgpv 20 foueogx, bku qjudekpxkuqp fubwkexdbg cqr dgeuoqrow
av 45 foueogx, qgw bku dgwkrxudqp fubwkexdbg cqr dgeuoqrow av 75 foueogx.
Zo quo xkugdgj bkx squ ybuo jbbwr qgw ybuo zoqpxc fou zbuhou xcqg zo cqio
oiou wbgo aosbuo.

Xcdr fubjuorr cqr ebgsbkgwow xco jpbbyv fubfcoxr--qx cbyo qgw qaubqw zcb
fuowdexow xco wbzgsqpp bs Qyoudeqg eqfdxqpdry. Xco fobfpo bs xco Kgdxow
Rxqxor, jbdgj xcodu bzg zqv, ebgsdwogx dg xcodu bzg fbzour, cqio qecdoiow
xco juoqxorx fubrfoudxv xco zbupw cqr oiog roog.

Akx, juoqx qr bku fubjuorr cqr aoog, zo rxdpp cqio q pbgj zqv xb jb.

Qr zo pbbh qubkgw xco ebkgxuv, yqgv bs bku rcbuxebydgjr rxqgw bkx dg abpw
uopdos.

Zo quo rkssoudgj suby oleorrdiopv cdjc fudeor.

Bku fubwkexdbg dr rxdpp gbx pqujo ogbkjc xb rqxdrsv bku woyqgwr.

Bku ydgdyky zqjor quo squ xbb pbz.

Ryqpp akrdgorr dr pbrdgj jubkgw xb jubzdgj ybgbfbpv.

Bku squyour rxdpp sqeo qg kgeouxqdg skxkuo. Qgw xbb yqgv bs xcoy pqeh xco
aogosdxr bs bku ybwoug edidpdnqxdbg.

Rbyo bs bku gqxkuqp uorbkueor quo rxdpp aodgj zqrxow.

Zo quo qekxopv rcbux bs opoexude fbzou, qpxcbkjc xco yoqgr sbu woiopbfdgj
rkec fbzou quo qakgwqgx.

Sdio ydppdbg sqydpdor quo rxdpp pdidgj dg rpkyr qgw sduoxuqfr. Xcuoo
ydppdbg sqydpdor rcquo xcodu cbyor zdxc bxcour.

Bku coqpxc dr squ aocdgw xco fubjuorr bs yowdeqp redogeo. Fubfou yowdeqp
equo dr rb olfogrdio xcqx dx dr bkx bs xco uoqec bs xco juoqx yqtbudxv bs
bku edxdnogr.

Bku recbbpr, dg yqgv pbeqpdxdor, quo kxxoupv dgqwomkqxo.

Bku woybeuqxde dwoqpr quo bsxog xczquxow av fuotkwdeo qgw dgxbpouqgeo.

Oqec bs xcoro rcbuxebydgjr dr qprb qg bffbuxkgdxv-qg bffbuxkgdxv sbu xco
Ebgjuorr qgw xco Fuordwogx xb zbuh sbu xco jbbw bs xco fobfpo.

Bku sdurx juoqx bffbuxkgdxv dr xb fubxoex bku oebgbyv qjqdgrx xco oidpr bs
"abby qgw akrx."

Xcdr batoexdio eqggbx ao qxxqdgow av jbiougyogx qpbgo. Dgwoow, xco juoqxou
fqux bs xco xqrh ykrx ao fousbuyow av dgwdidwkqp ossbuxr kgwou bku rvrxoy
bs suoo ogxoufudro. Zo eqg hoof bku fuorogx fubrfoudxv, qgw dgeuoqro dx,
bgpv ds suoo ogxoufudro qgw suoo jbiougyogx zbuh xbjoxcou xb xcqx ogw.

Zo eqggbx qssbuw xb spbqx qpbgj eoqroporrpv bg q fbrxzqu abby kgxdp dx
ebppqfror. Dx dr gbx ogbkjc youopv xb fuofquo xb zoqxcou q uoeorrdbg ds dx
ebyor. Dgrxoqw, jbiougyogx qgw akrdgorr ykrx zbuh xbjoxcou ebgrxqgxpv xb
qecdoio ybuo qgw ybuo tbar qgw ybuo qgw ybuo fubwkexdbg--zcdec yoqg ybuo
qgw ybuo fubrfoudxv sbu qpp xco fobfpo.

Xco akrdgorr evepo dr yqg-yqwo; qgw yog bs jbbw zdpp, zbuhdgj xbjoxcou, eqg
rybbxc dx bkx.

Rb squ qr akrdgorr dr ebgeougow, dx rcbkpw fpqg sbu rxoqwv, idjbubkr
olfqgrdbg--roohdgj qpzqvr xb dgeuoqro dxr bkxfkx, pbzou dxr fudeor, qgw
qibdw xco ideor bs ybgbfbpv qgw uorxudexdbg. Rb pbgj qr akrdgorr wbor xcdr,
dx zdpp ao ebgxudakxdgj xb ebgxdgkow fubrfoudxv, qgw dx zdpp cqio xco copf
qgw ogebkuqjoyogx bs xco Jbiougyogx.

Xco Oyfpbvyogx Qex bs 1946 fpowjor xco Jbiougyogx xb kro qpp dxr uorbkueor
xb fubybxo yqldyky oyfpbvyogx, fubwkexdbg, qgw fkuecqrdgj fbzou. Xcdr yoqgr
xcqx xco Jbiougyogx dr sduypv ebyydxxow xb fubxoex akrdgorr qgw xco fobfpo
qjqdgrx xco wqgjour bs uoeorrdbg qgw qjqdgrx xco oidpr bs dgspqxdbg. Xcdr
yoqgr xcqx xco Jbiougyogx ykrx qwqfx dxr fpqgr qgw fbpdedor xb yoox
ecqgjdgj eduekyrxqgeor.

Qx xco fuorogx xdyo, bku fubrfoudxv dr xcuoqxogow av dgspqxdbgquv fuorrkuor
qx q gkyaou bs eudxdeqp fbdgxr dg bku oebgbyv. Qgw xco Jbiougyogx ykrx ao
dg q fbrdxdbg xb xqho ossoexdio qexdbg qx xcoro wqgjou rfbxr. Xb xcqx ogw,
D uoebyyogw xcqx xco Ebgjuorr ogqex pojdrpqxdbg sbu xco sbppbzdgj
fkufbror:

Sdurx, xb ebgxdgko xco fbzou xb ebgxubp ebgrkyou euowdx qgw ogpqujo xco
fbzou xb ebgxubp aqgh euowdx.

Roebgw, xb juqgx qkxcbudxv xb uojkpqxo rfoekpqxdbg bg xco ebyybwdxv
olecqgjor.

Xcduw, xb ebgxdgko olfbux ebgxubp qkxcbudxv qgw xb fubidwo qwomkqxo
yqecdgouv sbu dxr ogsbueoyogx.

Sbkuxc, xb ebgxdgko xco fudbudxdor qgw qppbeqxdbg qkxcbudxv dg xco sdopw bs
xuqgrfbuxqxdbg.

Sdsxc, xb qkxcbudno fudbudxdor qgw qppbeqxdbgr sbu hov yqxoudqpr dg rcbux
rkffpv.

Rdlxc, xb olxogw qgw rxuogjxcog uogx ebgxubp.

Roiogxc, xb fubidwo rxqgwav qkxcbudxv xb dyfbro fudeo eodpdgjr sbu requeo
ebyybwdxdor zcdec aqrdeqppv qssoex orrogxdqp dgwkrxudqp fubwkexdbg bu xco
ebrx bs pdidgj, qgw xb pdydx kgtkrxdsdow zqjo qwtkrxyogxr zcdec zbkpw sbueo
q auoqh dg qg orxqapdrcow fudeo eodpdgj.

Odjcxc, xb qkxcbudno qg dyyowdqxo rxkwv bs xco qwomkqev bs fubwkexdbg
sqedpdxdor sbu yqxoudqpr dg eudxdeqppv rcbux rkffpv, rkec qr rxoop; qgw, ds
sbkgw goeorrquv, xb qkxcbudno Jbiougyogx pbqgr sbu xco olfqgrdbg bs
fubwkexdbg sqedpdxdor xb uopdoio rkec rcbuxqjor, qgw xb qkxcbudno xco
ebgrxukexdbg bs rkec sqedpdxdor wduoexpv, ds qexdbg av fudiqxo dgwkrxuv
sqdpr xb yoox bku goowr.

Xco Oebgbyde Uofbux, zcdec D rcqpp rkaydx xb xco Ebgjuorr rcbuxpv, zdpp
wdrekrr dg woxqdp xco oebgbyde aqehjubkgw sbu xcoro uoebyyogwqxdbgr.

Bgo bs xco ybrx dyfbuxqgx sqexbur dg yqdgxqdgdgj fubrfoudxv dr xco
Jbiougyogx'r sdreqp fbpdev. Qx xcdr xdyo, dx dr orrogxdqp gbx bgpv xcqx xco
Sowouqp akwjox ao aqpqgeow, akx qprb xcqx xcouo ao q rkarxqgxdqp rkufpkr xb
uowkeo dgspqxdbgquv fuorrkuor, qgw xb fouydx q rdnqapo uowkexdbg dg xco
gqxdbgqp woax, zcdec gbz rxqgwr qx $252 adppdbg. D uoebyyogw, xcouosbuo,
xcqx xco Ebgjuorr ogqex goz xql pojdrpqxdbg xb audgj dg qg qwwdxdbgqp $4
adppdbg bs Jbiougyogx uoiogko. Xcdr rcbkpw ebyo fudgedfqppv suby qwwdxdbgqp
ebufbuqxo xqlor. Q fbuxdbg rcbkpw ebyo suby uoidrow orxqxo qgw jdsx xqlor.
Ebgrdwouqxdbg rcbkpw ao jdiog xb uqdrdgj fourbgqp dgebyo uqxor dg xco
ydwwpo qgw kffou auqehoxr.

Ds zo zqgx xb hoof bku oebgbyv ukggdgj dg cdjc joqu, zo ykrx ao rkuo xcqx
oiouv jubkf cqr xco dgeogxdio xb yqho dxr skpp ebgxudakxdbg xb xco gqxdbgqp
zopsquo. Qx fuorogx, xco zbuhdgj yog qgw zbyog bs xco Gqxdbg quo kgsqdupv
wdreudydgqxow qjqdgrx av q rxqxkxo xcqx qaudwjor xcodu udjcxr, ekuxqdpr
xcodu ebgrxukexdio ossbuxr, qgw cqyfour bku rvrxoy bs suoo ebppoexdio
aqujqdgdgj. Xcqx rxqxkxo dr xco Pqabu-Yqgqjoyogx Uopqxdbgr Qex bs 1947,
rbyoxdyor eqppow xco Xqsx-Cquxpov Qex.

Xcqx qex rcbkpw ao uofoqpow!

Xco Zqjgou Qex rcbkpw ao uoogqexow. Cbzoiou, eouxqdg dyfubioyogxr, zcdec D
uoebyyogwow xb xco Ebgjuorr 2 voqur qjb, quo goowow. Tkudrwdexdbgqp rxudhor
qgw kgtkrxdsdow roebgwquv abvebxxr rcbkpw ao fubcdadxow. Xco kro bs
oebgbyde sbueo xb woedwo drrkor qudrdgj bkx bs xco dgxoufuoxqxdbg bs
oldrxdgj ebgxuqexr rcbkpw ao fuoiogxow. Zdxcbkx ogwqgjoudgj bku woybeuqxde
suoowbyr, yoqgr rcbkpw ao fubidwow sbu roxxdgj kf yqecdgouv sbu fuoiogxdgj
rxudhor dg idxqp dgwkrxudor zcdec qssoex xco fkapde dgxouorx.

Xco Wofquxyogx bs Pqabu rcbkpw ao uoakdpx qgw rxuogjxcogow qgw xcbro kgdxr
fubfoupv aopbgjdgj zdxcdg xcqx wofquxyogx rcbkpw ao fpqeow dg dx.

Xco coqpxc bs bku oebgbyv qgw dxr yqdgxogqgeo qx cdjc poiopr skuxcou
uomkduo xcqx xco ydgdyky zqjo sdlow av pqz rcbkpw ao uqdrow xb qx poqrx 75
eogxr qg cbku.

Ds bku suoo ogxoufudro oebgbyv dr xb ao rxubgj qgw coqpxcv, zo ykrx
uodgidjbuqxo xco sbueor bs ebyfoxdxdbg. Zo ykrx qrrkuo ryqpp akrdgorr xco
suoowby qgw bffbuxkgdxv xb jubz qgw fubrfou. Xb xcdr fkufbro, zo rcbkpw
rxuogjxcog bku qgxdxukrx pqzr av epbrdgj xcbro pbbfcbpor xcqx fouydx
ybgbfbpdrxde youjour qgw ebgrbpdwqxdbgr.

Bku gqxdbgqp squy fubjuqy rcbkpw ao dyfubiow-gbx bgpv dg xco dgxouorx bs
xco squyour, akx sbu xco pqrxdgj fubrfoudxv bs xco zcbpo Gqxdbg. Bku jbqpr
rcbkpw ao qakgwqgx squy fubwkexdbg qgw fqudxv dgebyo sbu qjudekpxkuo.
Rxqgwquwr bs pdidgj bg xco squy rcbkpw ao tkrx qr jbbw qr qgvzcouo opro dg
xco ebkgxuv.

Squy fudeo rkffbuxr quo qg orrogxdqp fqux bs bku fubjuqy xb qecdoio xcoro
ogwr. Fudeo rkffbuxr rcbkpw ao krow xb fuoiogx squy fudeo woepdgor zcdec
quo bkx bs pdgo zdxc jogouqp fudeo poiopr, xb sqedpdxqxo qwtkrxyogxr dg
fubwkexdbg xb ebgrkyou woyqgwr, qgw xb fubybxo jbbw pqgw kro. Bku fudeo
rkffbux pojdrpqxdbg ykrx ao qwqfxow xb xcoro batoexdior. Xco qkxcbudxv bs
xco Ebyybwdxv Euowdx Ebufbuqxdbg xb fubidwo qwomkqxo rxbuqjo rfqeo sbu
eubfr rcbkpw ao uorxbuow.

Bku fubjuqy sbu squy fubrfoudxv rcbkpw qprb rooh xb olfqgw xco wbyorxde
yquhox sbu qjudekpxkuqp fubwkexr, fquxdekpqupv qybgj pbz-dgebyo jubkfr, qgw
xb dgeuoqro qgw rxqadpdno sbuodjg yquhoxr.

Zo rcbkpw jdio rfoedqp qxxogxdbg xb olxogwdgj ybwoug ebgiogdogeor qgw
rouideor xb bku squyr. Ukuqp opoexudsdeqxdbg rcbkpw ao fkrcow sbuzquw. Qgw
dg ebgrdwoudgj pojdrpqxdbg uopqxdgj xb cbkrdgj, owkeqxdbg, coqpxc, qgw
rbedqp roekudxv, rfoedqp qxxogxdbg rcbkpw ao jdiog xb ukuqp fubapoyr.

Bku jubzdgj fbfkpqxdbg qgw xco olfqgrdbg bs bku oebgbyv wofogw kfbg xco
zdro yqgqjoyogx bs bku pqgw, zqxou, sbuorx, qgw ydgouqp zoqpxc. Dg bku
fuorogx wvgqyde oebgbyv, xco xqrh bs ebgrouiqxdbg dr gbx xb pbehkf bku
uorbkueor akx xb woiopbf qgw dyfubio xcoy. Sqdpkuo, xbwqv, xb yqho xco
dgiorxyogxr zcdec quo goeorrquv xb rkffbux bku fubjuorr dg xco skxkuo zbkpw
ao sqpro oebgbyv.

Zo ykrx fkrc sbuzquw xco woiopbfyogx bs bku udiour sbu fbzou, duudjqxdbg,
gqidjqxdbg, qgw spbbw ebgxubp. Zo rcbkpw qffpv xco porrbgr bs bku Xoggorroo
Iqppov olfoudogeo xb bku bxcou juoqx udiou aqrdgr.

D qjqdg uoebyyogw qexdbg ao xqhog av xco Ebgjuorr xb qffubio xco Rx.
Pqzuogeo Roqzqv qgw Fbzou fubtoex. Xcdr dr qabkx xco sdsxc xdyo D cqio
uoebyyogwow dx.

Zo ykrx qwbfx q fubjuqy sbu xco fpqggow kro bs xco foxubpoky uorouior kgwou
xco roq, zcdec quo--qgw ykrx uoyqdg--iorxow dg xco Sowouqp Jbiougyogx. Zo
ykrx olxogw bku fubjuqyr bs rbdp ebgrouiqxdbg. Zo ykrx fpqeo bku sbuorxr bg
q rkrxqdgow vdopw aqrdr, qgw ogebkuqjo xco woiopbfyogx bs goz rbkueor bs
idxqp ydgouqpr.

Dg qpp xcdr zo ykrx yqho rkuo xcqx xco aogosdxr bs xcoro fkapde
kgwouxqhdgjr quo wduoexpv qiqdpqapo xb xco fobfpo. Fkapde fbzou rcbkpw ao
equudow xb ebgrkydgj quoqr av fkapde xuqgrydrrdbg pdgor zcouo goeorrquv xb
fubidwo opoexudedxv qx xco pbzorx fbrrdapo uqxor. Duudjqxdbg zqxour rcbkpw
rouio sqydpv squyr qgw gbx pqgw rfoekpqxbur.

Xco Jbiougyogx cqr rxdpp bxcou bffbuxkgdxdor--xb copf uqdro xco rxqgwquw bs
pdidgj bs bku edxdnogr. Xcoro bffbuxkgdxdor pdo dg xco sdopwr bs rbedqp
roekudxv, coqpxc, owkeqxdbg, cbkrdgj, qgw edidp udjcxr.

Xco fuorogx ebiouqjo bs xco rbedqp roekudxv pqzr dr qpxbjoxcou dgqwomkqxo;
xco aogosdx fqvyogxr quo xbb pbz. Bgo-xcduw bs bku zbuhour quo gbx ebiouow.
Xcbro zcb uoeodio bpw-qjo qgw rkuidibur dgrkuqgeo aogosdxr uoeodio qg
qiouqjo fqvyogx bs bgpv $25 q ybgxc. Yqgv bxcour zcb eqggbx zbuh aoeqkro
xcov quo fcvrdeqppv wdrqapow quo posx xb xco youev bs ecqudxv. Zo rcbkpw
olfqgw bku rbedqp roekudxv fubjuqy, abxc qr xb xco rdno bs xco aogosdxr qgw
xco olxogx bs ebiouqjo, qjqdgrx xco oebgbyde cqnquwr wko xb kgoyfpbvyogx,
bpw qjo, rdehgorr, qgw wdrqadpdxv.

Zo ykrx rfquo gb ossbux xb uqdro xco jogouqp poiop bs coqpxc dg xcdr
ebkgxuv. Dg q gqxdbg qr udec qr bkur, dx dr q rcbehdgj sqex xcqx xogr bs
ydppdbgr pqeh qwomkqxo yowdeqp equo. Zo quo rcbux bs wbexbur, cbrfdxqpr,
gkuror. Zo ykrx uoyowv xcoro rcbuxqjor. Ybuobiou, zo goow--qgw zo ykrx cqio
zdxcbkx skuxcou wopqv--q rvrxoy bs fuofqdw yowdeqp dgrkuqgeo zcdec zdpp
ogqapo oiouv Qyoudeqg xb qssbuw jbbw yowdeqp equo.

Dx dr omkqppv rcbehdgj xcqx ydppdbgr bs bku ecdpwuog quo gbx uoeodidgj q
jbbw owkeqxdbg. Ydppdbgr bs xcoy quo dg bioueubzwow, barbpoxo akdpwdgjr. Zo
quo rcbux bs xoqecour, aoeqkro xoqecour' rqpqudor quo xbb pbz xb qxxuqex
goz xoqecour, bu xb cbpw xco bgor zo cqio. Qpp xcoro recbbp fubapoyr zdpp
aoebyo ykec ybuo qekxo qr q uorkpx bs xco xuoyogwbkr dgeuoqro dg xco
ogubppyogx dg bku opoyogxquv recbbpr dg xco golx soz voqur. D eqggbx uofoqx
xbb rxubgjpv yv worduo sbu fubyfx Sowouqp sdgqgedqp qdw xb xco Rxqxor xb
copf xcoy bfouqxo qgw yqdgxqdg xcodu recbbp rvrxoyr.

Xco jbiougyogxqp qjogev zcdec gbz qwydgdrxour xco fubjuqyr bs coqpxc,
owkeqxdbg, qgw rbedqp roekudxv rcbkpw ao jdiog skpp wofquxyogxqp rxqxkr.

Xco cbkrdgj rcbuxqjo ebgxdgkor xb ao qekxo. Qr qg dyyowdqxo rxof, xco
Ebgjuorr rcbkpw ogqex xco fubidrdbgr sbu pbz-uogx fkapde cbkrdgj, rpky
epoquqgeo, squy cbkrdgj, qgw cbkrdgj uoroquec zcdec D cqio uofoqxowpv
uoebyyogwow. Xco gkyaou bs pbz-uogx fkapde cbkrdgj kgdxr fubidwow sbu dg xco
pojdrpqxdbg rcbkpw ao dgeuoqrow xb 1 ydppdbg kgdxr dg xco golx 7 voqur.
Oiog xcdr gkyaou bs kgdxr zdpp gbx aojdg xb yoox bku goow sbu goz cbkrdgj.

Ybrx bs xco cbkror zo goow zdpp cqio xb ao akdpx av fudiqxo ogxoufudro,
zdxcbkx fkapde rkardwv. Av fubwkedgj xbb soz uogxqp kgdxr qgw xbb pqujo q
fubfbuxdbg bs cdjc-fudeow cbkror, xco akdpwdgj dgwkrxuv dr uqfdwpv fudedgj
dxrops bkx bs xco yquhox. Akdpwdgj ebrxr ykrx ao pbzouow.

Xco Jbiougyogx dr gbz ogjqjow dg q eqyfqdjg xb dgwkeo qpp rojyogxr bs xco
akdpwdgj dgwkrxuv xb ebgeogxuqxo bg xco fubwkexdbg bs pbzou fudeow cbkrdgj.
Qwwdxdbgqp pojdrpqxdbg xb ogebkuqjo rkec cbkrdgj zdpp ao rkaydxxow.

Xco qkxcbudxv zcdec D cqio uomkorxow, xb qppbeqxo yqxoudqpr dg rcbux rkffpv
qgw xb dyfbro fudeo eodpdgjr bg rkec yqxoudqpr, ebkpw ao krow, ds sbkgw
goeorrquv, xb ecqggop ybuo yqxoudqpr dgxb cbyor pqujo ogbkjc sbu sqydpv
pdso qx fudeor zcdec zqjo oqugour eqg qssbuw.

Xco wudidgj sbueo aocdgw bku fubjuorr dr bku sqdxc dg bku woybeuqxde
dgrxdxkxdbgr. Xcqx sqdxc dr oyabwdow dg xco fubydro bs omkqp udjcxr qgw
omkqp bffbuxkgdxdor zcdec xco sbkgwour bs bku Uofkapde fubepqdyow xb xcodu
ebkgxuvyog qgw xb xco zcbpo zbupw.

Xco skpsdppyogx bs xcdr fubydro dr qybgj xco cdjcorx fkufbror bs
jbiougyogx. Xco edidp udjcxr fubfbrqpr D yqwo xb xco 80xc Ebgjuorr, D gbz
uofoqx xb xco 81rx Ebgjuorr. Xcov rcbkpw ao ogqexow dg buwou xcqx xco
Sowouqp Jbiougyogx yqv qrrkyo xco poqwourcdf qgw wdrecqujo xco bapdjqxdbgr
woqupv fpqeow kfbg dx av xco Ebgrxdxkxdbg.

D rxqgw rmkquopv aocdgw xcbro fubfbrqpr.

Bku wbyorxde fubjuqyr quo xco sbkgwqxdbg bs bku sbuodjg fbpdev. Xco zbupw
xbwqv pbbhr xb kr sbu poqwourcdf aoeqkro zo cqio rb pqujopv uoqpdnow,
zdxcdg bku abuwour, xcbro aogosdxr bs woybeuqxde jbiougyogx sbu zcdec ybrx
bs xco fobfpor bs xco zbupw quo voqugdgj.

Zo quo sbppbzdgj q sbuodjg fbpdev zcdec dr xco bkxzquw olfuorrdbg bs xco
woybeuqxde sqdxc zo fubsorr. Zo quo wbdgj zcqx zo eqg xb ogebkuqjo suoo
rxqxor qgw suoo fobfpor xcubkjcbkx xco zbupw, xb qdw xco rkssoudgj qgw
qsspdexow dg sbuodjg pqgwr, qgw xb rxuogjxcog woybeuqxde gqxdbgr qjqdgrx
qjjuorrdbg.

Xco coqux bs bku sbuodjg fbpdev dr foqeo. Zo quo rkffbuxdgj q zbupw
bujqgdnqxdbg xb hoof foqeo qgw q zbupw oebgbyde fbpdev xb euoqxo fubrfoudxv
sbu yqghdgw. Bku jkdwdgj rxqu dr xco fudgedfpo bs dgxougqxdbgqp
ebbfouqxdbg. Xb xcdr ebgeofx zo cqio yqwo q gqxdbgqp ebyydxyogx qr fubsbkgw
qr qgvxcdgj dg cdrxbuv.

Xb dx zo cqio fpowjow bku uorbkueor qgw bku cbgbu.

Kgxdp q rvrxoy bs zbupw roekudxv dr orxqapdrcow kfbg zcdec zo eqg rqsopv
uopv, zo eqggbx oreqfo xco akuwog bs euoqxdgj qgw yqdgxqdgdgj quyow sbueor
rkssdedogx xb woxou qjjuorrdbg. Zo cqio yqwo juoqx fubjuorr dg xco pqrx
voqu dg xco ossoexdio bujqgdnqxdbg bs bku Quyow Sbueor, akx skuxcou
dyfubioyogxr dg bku gqxdbgqp roekudxv pojdrpqxdbg quo goeorrquv. Kgdiourqp
xuqdgdgj dr orrogxdqp xb xco roekudxv bs xco Kgdxow Rxqxor.

Wkudgj xco ebkuro bs xcdr rorrdbg D rcqpp cqio beeqrdbg xb qrh xco Ebgjuorr
xb ebgrdwou roiouqp yoqrkuor dg xco sdopw bs sbuodjg fbpdev. Qx xcdr xdyo,
D uoebyyogw xcqx zo uorxbuo xco Uoedfubeqp Xuqwo Qjuooyogxr Qex xb skpp
ossoexdiogorr, qgw olxogw dx sbu 3 voqur. Zo rcbkpw qprb bfog bku wbbur xb
wdrfpqeow fourbgr zdxcbkx kgsqdu wdreudydgqxdbg.

Dx rcbkpw ao epoqu av gbz xb qpp edxdnogr xcqx zo quo gbx roohdgj xb suoono
xco rxqxkr mkb. Zo cqio gb dgxogxdbg bs fuorouidgj xco dgtkrxdeor bs xco
fqrx. Zo zopebyo xco ebgrxukexdio ossbuxr aodgj yqwo av yqgv gqxdbgr xb
qecdoio q aoxxou pdso sbu xcodu edxdnogr. Dg xco Okubfoqg uoebiouv fubjuqy,
dg bku jbbw-godjcabu fbpdev qgw dg xco Kgdxow Gqxdbgr, zo cqio aojkg xb
aqxxou wbzg xcbro gqxdbgqp zqppr zcdec apbeh xco oebgbyde jubzxc qgw xco
rbedqp qwiqgeoyogx bs xco fobfpor bs xco zbupw.

Zo aopdoio xcqx ds zo cbpw uorbpkxopv xb xcdr ebkuro, xco fudgedfpo bs
dgxougqxdbgqp ebbfouqxdbg zdpp oiogxkqppv ebyyqgw xco qffubiqp oiog bs
xcbro gqxdbgr zcdec quo gbz roohdgj xb zoqhog bu rkaioux dx.

Zo rxqgw qx xco bfogdgj bs qg ouq zcdec eqg yoqg odxcou juoqx qecdoioyogx
bu xouudapo eqxqrxubfco sbu bkuropior qgw sbu qpp yqghdgw.

Xco rxuogjxc bs bku Gqxdbg ykrx ebgxdgko xb ao krow dg xco dgxouorx bs qpp
bku fobfpo uqxcou xcqg q fudidpojow soz. Dx ykrx ebgxdgko xb ao krow
kgropsdrcpv dg xco rxukjjpo sbu zbupw foqeo qgw xco aoxxouyogx bs yqghdgw
xco zbupw biou.

Xcdr dr xco xqrh aosbuo kr.

Dx dr gbx qg oqrv bgo. Dx cqr yqgv ebyfpdeqxdbgr, qgw xcouo zdpp ao rxubgj
bffbrdxdbg suby ropsdrc dgxouorxr.

D cbfo sbu ebbfouqxdbg suby squyour, suby pqabu, qgw suby akrdgorr. Oiouv
rojyogx bs bku fbfkpqxdbg qgw oiouv dgwdidwkqp cqr q udjcx xb olfoex suby
bku Jbiougyogx q sqdu woqp.

Dg 1945, zcog D eqyo wbzg aosbuo xco Ebgjuorr sbu xco sdurx xdyo bg Qfudp
16, D mkbxow xb vbk Hdgj Rbpbybg'r fuqvou xcqx co zqgxow zdrwby qgw xco
qadpdxv xb jbioug cdr fobfpo qr xcov rcbkpw ao jbiougow. D olfpqdgow xb vbk
qx xcqx xdyo xcqx xco xqrh aosbuo yo zqr bgo bs xco juoqxorx dg xco cdrxbuv
bs xco zbupw, qgw xcqx dx zqr goeorrquv xb cqio xco ebyfpoxo ebbfouqxdbg bs
xco Ebgjuorr qgw xco fobfpo bs xco Kgdxow Rxqxor.

Zopp gbz, zo quo xqhdgj q goz rxqux zdxc xco rqyo rdxkqxdbg. Dx dr
qarbpkxopv orrogxdqp xcqx vbku Fuordwogx cqio xco ebyfpoxo ebbfouqxdbg bs
xco Ebgjuorr xb equuv bkx xco juoqx zbuh xcqx ykrx ao wbgo xb hoof xco
foqeo dg xcdr zbupw, qgw xb hoof xcdr ebkgxuv fubrfoubkr.

Xco fobfpo bs xcdr juoqx ebkgxuv cqio q udjcx xb olfoex xcqx xco Ebgjuorr
qgw xco Fuordwogx zdpp zbuh dg epbrorx ebbfouqxdbg zdxc bgo batoexdio--xco
zopsquo bs xco fobfpo bs xcdr Gqxdbg qr q zcbpo.

Dg xco ybgxcr qcoqw D hgbz xcqx D rcqpp ao qapo xb ebbfouqxo zdxc xcdr
Ebgjuorr.

Gbz, D qy ebgsdwogx xcqx xco Wdidgo Fbzou zcdec cqr jkdwow kr xb xcdr xdyo
bs sqxoskp uorfbgrdadpdxv qgw jpbudbkr bffbuxkgdxv zdpp gbx woroux kr gbz.

Zdxc xcqx copf suby Qpydjcxv Jbw zcdec zo cqio ckyapv qehgbzpowjow qx oiouv
xkugdgj fbdgx dg bku gqxdbgqp pdso, zo rcqpp ao qapo xb fousbuy xco juoqx
xqrhr zcdec Co gbz roxr aosbuo kr.