Qj. Pctdztj, Qj. Lvxt Cjtpvstfb, Qtqatjp ok Xofmjtpp, bgt Kvjpb Ndsh ok
bgt Ufvbts Pbdbtp, dfs qh ktnnoi Dqtjvxdfp:

Ntpp bgdf 1 htdj gdp cdppts pvfxt V kvjpb pboos db bgvp cosvuq, vf bgvp
qdytpbvx xgdqatj, bo pctdz of atgdnk ok bgt Dqtjvxdf Ctocnt -- dfs bo
dssjtpp bgtvj xofxtjfp, bgtvj goctp, dfs bgtvj sjtdqp. Bgdb fvmgb, ouj
fti Dsqvfvpbjdbvof gds dnjtdsh bdztf pivkb dxbvof. D fti bvst ok
ocbvqvpq idp dnjtdsh pittcvfm dxjopp ouj ndfs.

Tdxg sdh pvfxt, it gdlt moft kojidjs ivbg d xntdj lvpvof dfs d jvmgbtoup
qvppvof -- bo qdzt Dqtjvxd mjtdb dmdvf koj dnn Dqtjvxdfp.

Oltj bgt ndpb htdj, it gdlt qdst vfxjtsvant cjomjtpp dfs dxgvtlts
trbjdojsvfdjh puxxtpp. It gdlt kdxts xgdnntfmtp it trctxbts, dfs obgtjp
it xouns ftltj gdlt vqdmvfts. It gdlt pgdjts vf bgt gtvmgbp ok lvxbojh
dfs bgt cdvfp ok gdjspgvc. It tfsujts knoosp dfs kvjtp dfs pbojqp. Aub
bgjoumg vb dnn, it gdlt pttf bgt atdubh ok Dqtjvxd'p poun, dfs bgt pbttn
vf Dqtjvxd'p pcvft.

Tdxg btpb gdp kojmts fti Dqtjvxdf gtjotp bo jtqvfs up igo it djt, dfs
pgoi up igdb it xdf at.

It pdi bgt lonufbttjp ok bgt "Xdyuf Fdlh," jdxvfm bo bgt jtpxut ivbg
bgtvj kvpgvfm aodbp bo pdlt ctocnt vf bgt dkbtjqdbg ok d stldpbdbvfm
gujjvxdft.

It pdi pbjdfmtjp pgvtnsvfm pbjdfmtjp kjoq d gdvn ok mufkvjt of bgt Ndp
Ltmdp pbjvc.

It gtdjs bdntp ok Dqtjvxdfp nvzt Xodpb Mudjs Ctbbh Okkvxtj Dpgntt
Ntcctjb, igo vp gtjt bofvmgb vf bgt mdnntjh ivbg Qtndfvd. Dpgntt idp
daodjs oft ok bgt kvjpb gtnvxocbtjp of bgt pxtft vf Goupbof sujvfm
Gujjvxdft Gdjlth. Bgjoumg 18 goujp ok ivfs dfs jdvf, Dpgntt ajdlts nvlt
coitj nvftp dfs sttc idbtj, bo gtnc pdlt qojt bgdf 40 nvltp. Bgdfz hou,
Dpgntt.

It gtdjs daoub Dqtjvxdfp nvzt kvjtkvmgbtj Sdlvs Sdgnatjm. Gt vp gtjt
ivbg up boo. Sdlvs kdxts soif idnnp ok kndqt bo jtpxut dnqopb 60
xgvnsjtf bjdccts db d Xdnvkojfvd puqqtj xdqc bgjtdbtfts ah ivnskvjtp.

Bo tltjhoft pbvnn jtxoltjvfm vf Btrdp, Knojvsd, Nouvpvdfd, Cutjbo Jvxo,
bgt Lvjmvf Vpndfsp, Xdnvkojfvd, dfs tltjhigtjt tnpt -- it djt ivbg hou,
it nolt hou, dfs it ivnn cunn bgjoumg bomtbgtj.

Poqt bjvdnp oltj bgt cdpb htdj bouxgts bgvp xgdqatj ltjh ctjpofdnnh.
Ivbg up bofvmgb vp oft ok bgt boumgtpb ctocnt tltj bo ptjlt vf bgvp
Goupt -- d muh igo booz d aunntb, dnqopb svts, dfs idp adxz bo iojz
bgjtt dfs d gdnk qofbgp ndbtj: bgt ntmtfs kjoq Nouvpvdfd, Xofmjtppqdf
Pbtlt Pxdnvpt.

It djt vfxjtsvanh mjdbtkun koj bgt gtjovx tkkojbp ok bgt Xdcvbon Convxt
Okkvxtjp, bgt Dntrdfsjvd Convxt, dfs bgt soxbojp, fujptp, dfs cdjdqtsvxp
igo pdlts gvp nvkt, dfs bgt nvltp ok qdfh obgtjp vf bgvp jooq.

Vf bgt dkbtjqdbg ok bgdb btjjvant pgoobvfm, it xdqt bomtbgtj, fob dp
Jtcuanvxdfp oj Stqoxjdbp, aub dp jtcjtptfbdbvltp ok bgt ctocnt. Aub vb
vp fob tfoumg bo xoqt bomtbgtj ofnh vf bvqtp ok bjdmtsh. Bofvmgb, V xdnn
ucof dnn ok up bo ptb dpvst ouj svkktjtfxtp, bo pttz oub xoqqof mjoufs,
dfs bo puqqof bgt ufvbh it ftts bo stnvltj koj bgt ctocnt it itjt
tntxbts bo ptjlt.

Oltj bgt ndpb htdj, bgt iojns gdp pttf igdb it dnidhp zfti: bgdb fo
ctocnt of Tdjbg djt po ktdjntpp, oj sdjvfm, oj stbtjqvfts dp Dqtjvxdfp.
Vk bgtjt vp d qoufbdvf, it xnvqa vb. Vk bgtjt vp d kjofbvtj, it xjopp
vb. Vk bgtjt vp d xgdnntfmt, it bdqt vb. Vk bgtjt vp df occojbufvbh, it
ptvwt vb.

Po ntb up atmvf bofvmgb ah jtxomfvwvfm bgdb bgt pbdbt ok ouj Ufvof vp
pbjofm atxdupt ouj ctocnt djt pbjofm.

Dfs bomtbgtj, it djt auvnsvfm d pdkt, pbjofm, dfs cjous Dqtjvxd.

Pvfxt bgt tntxbvof, it gdlt xjtdbts 2.4 qvnnvof fti yoap, vfxnusvfm
200,000 fti yoap vf qdfukdxbujvfm dnoft. Dkbtj htdjp ok idmt pbdmfdbvof,
it djt kvfdnnh pttvfm jvpvfm idmtp.

Uftqcnohqtfb xndvqp gdlt gvb d 45-htdj noi. Dkjvxdf-Dqtjvxdf
uftqcnohqtfb pbdfsp db bgt noitpb jdbt tltj jtxojsts, dfs Gvpcdfvx
Dqtjvxdf uftqcnohqtfb gdp dnpo jtdxgts bgt noitpb ntltnp vf gvpbojh.

Pqdnn aupvftpp xofkvstfxt vp db df dnn-bvqt gvmg. Bgt pboxz qdjztb gdp
pqdpgts oft jtxojs dkbtj dfobgtj, mdvfvfm $8 bjvnnvof vf ldnut. Bgdb vp
mjtdb ftip koj Dqtjvxdfp' 401z, jtbvjtqtfb, ctfpvof, dfs xonntmt pdlvfmp
dxxoufbp.

Dfs yupb dp V cjoqvpts bgt Dqtjvxdf ctocnt kjoq bgvp cosvuq 11 qofbgp
dmo, it tfdxbts bgt avmmtpb bdr xubp dfs jtkojqp vf Dqtjvxdf gvpbojh.

Ouj qdppvlt bdr xubp cjolvst bjtqtfsoup jtnvtk koj bgt qvssnt xndpp dfs
pqdnn aupvftpptp.

Bo noitj bdr jdbtp koj gdjsiojzvfm Dqtjvxdfp, it ftdjnh souants bgt
pbdfsdjs stsuxbvof koj tltjhoft. Foi, bgt kvjpb $24,000 tdjfts ah d
qdjjvts xoucnt vp xoqcntbtnh bdr-kjtt. It dnpo souants bgt xgvns bdr
xjtsvb.

D bhcvxdn kdqvnh ok kouj qdzvfm $75,000 ivnn ptt bgtvj bdr avnn jtsuxts
ah $2,000 -- pndpgvfm bgtvj bdr avnn vf gdnk.

Bgvp Dcjvn ivnn at bgt ndpb bvqt hou tltj kvnt ufstj bgt ons ajoztf
phpbtq -- dfs qvnnvofp ok Dqtjvxdfp ivnn gdlt qojt bdzt-goqt cdh
pbdjbvfm ftrb qofbg.

It tnvqvfdbts df tpctxvdnnh xjutn bdr bgdb ktnn qopbnh of Dqtjvxdfp
qdzvfm ntpp bgdf $50,000 d htdj -- kojxvfm bgtq bo cdh bjtqtfsoup
ctfdnbvtp pvqcnh atxdupt bgth xouns fob dkkojs moltjfqtfb-ojstjts gtdnbg
cndfp. It jtctdnts bgt xojt ok svpdpbjoup Oadqdxdjt -- bgt vfsvlvsudn
qdfsdbt vp foi moft.

It pndpgts bgt aupvftpp bdr jdbt kjoq 35 ctjxtfb dnn bgt idh soif bo 21
ctjxtfb, po Dqtjvxdf xoqcdfvtp xdf xoqctbt dfs ivf dmdvfpb dfhoft vf bgt
iojns. Bgtpt xgdfmtp dnoft djt tpbvqdbts bo vfxjtdpt dltjdmt kdqvnh
vfxoqt ah qojt bgdf $4,000.

Pqdnn aupvftpptp gdlt dnpo jtxtvlts d qdppvlt bdr xub, dfs xdf foi
stsuxb 20 ctjxtfb ok bgtvj aupvftpp vfxoqt.

Gtjt bofvmgb djt Pbtlt Pbdua dfs Pdfsh Ztcnvfmtj ok Pbdua Qdfukdxbujvfm
-- d pqdnn aupvftpp vf Ogvo. Bgth gdlt yupb kvfvpgts bgt atpb htdj vf
bgtvj 20-htdj gvpbojh. Atxdupt ok bdr jtkojq, bgth djt gdfsvfm oub
jdvptp, gvjvfm df dssvbvofdn 14 ctocnt, dfs trcdfsvfm vfbo bgt auvnsvfm
ftrb sooj.

Oft ok Pbdua'p tqcnohttp, Xojth Dsdqp, vp dnpo ivbg up bofvmgb. Xojth vp
df dnn-Dqtjvxdf iojztj. Gt puccojbts gvqptnk bgjoumg gvmg pxgoon, nopb
gvp yoa sujvfm bgt 2008 jtxtppvof, dfs idp ndbtj gvjts ah Pbdua, igtjt
gt bjdvfts bo atxoqt d itnstj. Nvzt qdfh gdjsiojzvfm Dqtjvxdfp, Xojth
cndfp bo vfltpb gvp bdrxub jdvpt vfbo gvp fti goqt dfs gvp bio
sdumgbtjp' tsuxdbvof. Cntdpt yovf qt vf xofmjdbundbvfm Xojth.

Pvfxt it cdppts bdr xubp, joumgnh 3 qvnnvof iojztjp gdlt dnjtdsh mobbtf
bdr xub aofuptp -- qdfh ok bgtq bgoupdfsp ok sonndjp ctj iojztj. Dccnt
gdp yupb dffoufxts vb cndfp bo vfltpb d bobdn ok $350 avnnvof vf
Dqtjvxd, dfs gvjt dfobgtj 20,000 iojztjp.

Bgvp vp ouj fti Dqtjvxdf qoqtfb. Bgtjt gdp ftltj attf d atbbtj bvqt bo
pbdjb nvlvfm bgt Dqtjvxdf Sjtdq.

Po bo tltjh xvbvwtf idbxgvfm db goqt bofvmgb -- fo qdbbtj igtjt hou gdlt
attf, oj igtjt hou xoqt kjoq, bgvp vp houj bvqt. Vk hou iojz gdjs, vk
hou atnvtlt vf houjptnk, vk hou atnvtlt vf Dqtjvxd, bgtf hou xdf sjtdq
dfhbgvfm, hou xdf at dfhbgvfm, dfs bomtbgtj, it xdf dxgvtlt dfhbgvfm.

Bofvmgb, V idfb bo bdnz daoub igdb zvfs ok kubujt it djt movfm bo gdlt,
dfs igdb zvfs ok Fdbvof it djt movfm bo at. Dnn ok up, bomtbgtj, dp oft
btdq, oft ctocnt, dfs oft Dqtjvxdf kdqvnh.

It dnn pgdjt bgt pdqt goqt, bgt pdqt gtdjb, bgt pdqt stpbvfh, dfs bgt
pdqt mjtdb Dqtjvxdf kndm.

Bomtbgtj, it djt jtsvpxoltjvfm bgt Dqtjvxdf idh.

Vf Dqtjvxd, it zfoi bgdb kdvbg dfs kdqvnh, fob moltjfqtfb dfs
aujtduxjdxh, djt bgt xtfbtj ok bgt Dqtjvxdf nvkt. Ouj qobbo vp "vf Mos
it bjupb."

Dfs it xtntajdbt ouj convxt, ouj qvnvbdjh, dfs ouj dqdwvfm ltbtjdfp dp
gtjotp igo stptjlt ouj bobdn dfs ufidltjvfm puccojb.

Gtjt bofvmgb vp Cjtpbof Pgdjc, d 12-htdj-ons aoh kjoq Jtssvfm,
Xdnvkojfvd, igo fobvxts bgdb ltbtjdfp' mjdltp itjt fob qdjzts ivbg kndmp
of Ltbtjdfp Sdh. Gt stxvsts bo xgdfmt bgdb, dfs pbdjbts d qoltqtfb bgdb
gdp foi cndxts 40,000 kndmp db bgt mjdltp ok ouj mjtdb gtjotp. Cjtpbof:
d yoa itnn soft.

Houfm cdbjvobp nvzt Cjtpbof btdxg dnn ok up daoub ouj xvlvx subh dp
Dqtjvxdfp. Cjtpbof'p jtltjtfxt koj bgopt igo gdlt ptjlts ouj Fdbvof
jtqvfsp up igh it pdnubt ouj kndm, igh it cub ouj gdfsp of ouj gtdjbp
koj bgt cntsmt ok dnntmvdfxt, dfs igh it cjousnh pbdfs koj bgt fdbvofdn
dfbgtq.

Dqtjvxdfp nolt bgtvj xoufbjh. Dfs bgth stptjlt d Moltjfqtfb bgdb pgoip
bgtq bgt pdqt nolt dfs nohdnbh vf jtbujf.

Koj bgt ndpb htdj it gdlt poumgb bo jtpbojt bgt aofsp ok bjupb atbittf
ouj xvbvwtfp dfs bgtvj Moltjfqtfb.

Iojzvfm ivbg bgt Ptfdbt, it djt dccovfbvfm yusmtp igo ivnn vfbtjcjtb bgt
Xofpbvbubvof dp ijvbbtf, vfxnusvfm d mjtdb fti Pucjtqt Xoujb Yupbvxt,
dfs qojt xvjxuvb xoujb yusmtp bgdf dfh fti dsqvfvpbjdbvof vf bgt gvpbojh
ok ouj xoufbjh.

It djt stktfsvfm ouj Ptxofs Dqtfsqtfb, dfs gdlt bdztf gvpbojvx dxbvofp
bo cjobtxb jtnvmvoup nvatjbh.

Dfs it djt ptjlvfm ouj ajdlt ltbtjdfp, vfxnusvfm mvlvfm ouj ltbtjdfp
xgovxt vf bgtvj gtdnbgxdjt stxvpvofp. Ndpb htdj, bgt Xofmjtpp cdppts,
dfs V pvmfts, bgt ndfsqdjz LD Dxxoufbdavnvbh Dxb. Pvfxt vbp cdppdmt, qh
Dsqvfvpbjdbvof gdp dnjtdsh jtqolts qojt bgdf 1,500 LD tqcnohttp igo
kdvnts bo mvlt ouj ltbtjdfp bgt xdjt bgth stptjlt -- dfs it djt gvjvfm
bdntfbts ctocnt igo nolt ouj ltbp dp quxg dp it so.

V ivnn fob pboc ufbvn ouj ltbtjdfp djt cjoctjnh bdztf xdjt ok, igvxg gdp
attf qh cjoqvpt bo bgtq kjoq bgt ltjh atmvffvfm ok bgvp mjtdb youjfth.

Dnn Dqtjvxdfp stptjlt dxxoufbdavnvbh dfs jtpctxb -- dfs bgdb vp igdb it
djt mvlvfm bgtq. Po bofvmgb, V xdnn of bgt Xofmjtpp bo tqcoitj tltjh
Xdavftb Ptxjtbdjh ivbg bgt dubgojvbh bo jtidjs moos iojztjp -- dfs bo
jtqolt Ktstjdn tqcnohttp igo ufstjqvft bgt cuanvx bjupb oj kdvn bgt
Dqtjvxdf ctocnt.

Vf ouj sjvlt bo qdzt Idpgvfmbof dxxoufbdant, it gdlt tnvqvfdbts qojt
jtmundbvofp vf ouj kvjpb htdj bgdf dfh dsqvfvpbjdbvof vf gvpbojh.

It gdlt tfsts bgt idj of Dqtjvxdf Tftjmh -- dfs it gdlt tfsts bgt idj of
xntdf xodn. It djt foi df trcojbtj ok tftjmh bo bgt iojns.

Vf Stbjovb, V gdnbts Moltjfqtfb qdfsdbtp bgdb xjvccnts Dqtjvxd'p
duboiojztjp -- po it xdf mtb bgt Qoboj Xvbh jtllvfm vbp tfmvftp ofxt
dmdvf.

Qdfh xdj xoqcdfvtp djt foi auvnsvfm dfs trcdfsvfm cndfbp vf bgt Ufvbts
Pbdbtp -- poqtbgvfm it gdlt fob pttf koj stxdstp. Xgjhpntj vp qolvfm d
qdyoj cndfb kjoq Qtrvxo bo Qvxgvmdf; Bohobd dfs Qdwsd djt octfvfm uc d
cndfb vf Dndadqd. Poof, cndfbp ivnn at octfvfm uc dnn oltj bgt xoufbjh.
Bgvp vp dnn ftip Dqtjvxdfp djt ufdxxupboqts bo gtdjvfm -- koj qdfh
htdjp, xoqcdfvtp dfs yoap itjt ofnh ntdlvfm up. Aub foi bgth djt xoqvfm
adxz.

Trxvbvfm cjomjtpp vp gdcctfvfm tltjh sdh.

Bo pctts dxxtpp bo ajtdzbgjoumg xujtp dfs dkkojsdant mtftjvx sjump, ndpb
htdj bgt KSD dccjolts qojt fti dfs mtftjvx sjump dfs qtsvxdn stlvxtp
bgdf tltj atkojt vf ouj gvpbojh.

It dnpo atnvtlt bgdb cdbvtfbp ivbg btjqvfdn xofsvbvofp pgouns gdlt
dxxtpp bo trctjvqtfbdn bjtdbqtfbp bgdb xouns cobtfbvdnnh pdlt bgtvj
nvltp.

Ctocnt igo djt btjqvfdnnh vnn pgouns fob gdlt bo mo kjoq xoufbjh bo
xoufbjh bo pttz d xujt -- V idfb bo mvlt bgtq d xgdfxt jvmgb gtjt db
goqt. Vb vp bvqt koj bgt Xofmjtpp bo mvlt bgtpt iofstjkun Dqtjvxdfp bgt
"jvmgb bo bjh."

Oft ok qh mjtdbtpb cjvojvbvtp vp bo jtsuxt bgt cjvxt ok cjtpxjvcbvof
sjump. Vf qdfh obgtj xoufbjvtp, bgtpt sjump xopb kdj ntpp bgdf igdb it
cdh vf bgt Ufvbts Pbdbtp. Bgdb vp igh V gdlt svjtxbts qh Dsqvfvpbjdbvof
bo qdzt kvrvfm bgt vfyupbvxt ok gvmg sjum cjvxtp oft ok ouj boc
cjvojvbvtp. Cjvxtp ivnn xoqt soif.

Dqtjvxd gdp dnpo kvfdnnh bujfts bgt cdmt of stxdstp ok ufkdvj bjdst
stdnp bgdb pdxjvkvxts ouj cjopctjvbh dfs pgvccts didh ouj xoqcdfvtp, ouj
yoap, dfs ouj Fdbvof'p itdnbg.

Bgt tjd ok txofoqvx pujjtfstj vp oltj.

Kjoq foi of, it trctxb bjdsvfm jtndbvofpgvcp bo at kdvj dfs bo at
jtxvcjoxdn.

It ivnn iojz bo kvr ads bjdst stdnp dfs ftmobvdbt fti oftp.

Dfs it ivnn cjobtxb Dqtjvxdf iojztjp dfs Dqtjvxdf vfbtnntxbudn cjoctjbh,
bgjoumg pbjofm tfkojxtqtfb ok ouj bjdst juntp.

Dp it jtauvns ouj vfsupbjvtp, vb vp dnpo bvqt bo jtauvns ouj xjuqanvfm
vfkjdpbjuxbujt.

Dqtjvxd vp d fdbvof ok auvnstjp. It auvnb bgt Tqcvjt Pbdbt Auvnsvfm vf
yupb 1 htdj -- vp vb fob d svpmjdxt bgdb vb xdf foi bdzt 10 htdjp yupb
bo mtb d ctjqvb dccjolts koj d pvqcnt jods?

V dq dpzvfm aobg cdjbvtp bo xoqt bomtbgtj bo mvlt up bgt pdkt, kdpb,
jtnvdant, dfs qostjf vfkjdpbjuxbujt ouj txofoqh fttsp dfs ouj ctocnt
stptjlt.

Bofvmgb, V dq xdnnvfm of bgt Xofmjtpp bo cjosuxt d avnn bgdb mtftjdbtp
db ntdpb $1.5 bjvnnvof koj bgt fti vfkjdpbjuxbujt vfltpbqtfb it ftts.

Tltjh Ktstjdn sonndj pgouns at ntltjdmts ah cdjbftjvfm ivbg Pbdbt dfs
noxdn moltjfqtfbp dfs, igtjt dccjocjvdbt, bdccvfm vfbo cjvldbt ptxboj
vfltpbqtfb -- bo ctjqdftfbnh kvr bgt vfkjdpbjuxbujt stkvxvb.

Dfh avnn qupb dnpo pbjtdqnvft bgt ctjqvbbvfm dfs dccjoldn cjoxtpp --
mtbbvfm vb soif bo fo qojt bgdf bio htdjp, dfs ctjgdcp tltf oft.

Bomtbgtj, it xdf jtxndvq ouj auvnsvfm gtjvbdmt. It ivnn auvns mntdqvfm
fti jodsp, ajvsmtp, gvmgidhp, jdvnidhp, dfs idbtjidhp dxjopp ouj ndfs.
Dfs it ivnn so vb ivbg Dqtjvxdf gtdjb, Dqtjvxdf gdfsp, dfs Dqtjvxdf
mjvb.

It idfb tltjh Dqtjvxdf bo zfoi bgt svmfvbh ok d gdjs sdh'p iojz. It idfb
tltjh xgvns bo at pdkt vf bgtvj goqt db fvmgb. Dfs it idfb tltjh xvbvwtf
bo at cjous ok bgvp ndfs bgdb it nolt.

It xdf nvkb ouj xvbvwtfp kjoq itnkdjt bo iojz, kjoq stctfstfxt bo
vfstctfstfxt, dfs kjoq coltjbh bo cjopctjvbh.

Dp bdr xubp xjtdbt fti yoap, ntb up vfltpb vf iojzkojxt stltnocqtfb dfs
yoa bjdvfvfm. Ntb up octf mjtdb loxdbvofdn pxgoonp po ouj kubujt iojztjp
xdf ntdjf d xjdkb dfs jtdnvwt bgtvj kunn cobtfbvdn. Dfs ntb up puccojb
iojzvfm kdqvnvtp ah puccojbvfm cdvs kdqvnh ntdlt.

Dp Dqtjvxd jtmdvfp vbp pbjtfmbg, bgvp occojbufvbh qupb at trbtfsts bo
dnn xvbvwtfp. Bgdb vp igh bgvp htdj it ivnn tqadjz of jtkojqvfm ouj
cjvpofp bo gtnc kojqtj vfqdbtp igo gdlt ptjlts bgtvj bvqt mtb d ptxofs
xgdfxt.

Pbjummnvfm xoqqufvbvtp, tpctxvdnnh vqqvmjdfb xoqqufvbvtp, ivnn dnpo at
gtncts ah vqqvmjdbvof convxvtp bgdb koxup of bgt atpb vfbtjtpbp ok
Dqtjvxdf iojztjp dfs Dqtjvxdf kdqvnvtp.

Koj stxdstp, octf aojstjp gdlt dnnoits sjump dfs mdfmp bo couj vfbo ouj
qopb lunftjdant xoqqufvbvtp. Bgth gdlt dnnoits qvnnvofp ok noi-idmt
iojztjp bo xoqctbt koj yoap dfs idmtp dmdvfpb bgt coojtpb Dqtjvxdfp.
Qopb bjdmvxdnnh, bgth gdlt xdupts bgt nopp ok qdfh vffoxtfb nvltp.

Gtjt bofvmgb djt bio kdbgtjp dfs bio qobgtjp: Tltnhf Josjvmutw, Kjtssh
Xutldp, Tnvwdatbg Dnldjdso, dfs Joatjb Qvxztfp. Bgtvj bio bttfdmt
sdumgbtjp -- Zdhnd Xutldp dfs Fvpd Qvxztfp -- itjt xnopt kjvtfsp of Nofm
Vpndfs. Aub vf Ptcbtqatj 2016, of bgt tlt ok Fvpd'p 16bg Avjbgsdh,
ftvbgtj ok bgtq xdqt goqt. Bgtpt bio cjtxvoup mvjnp itjt ajubdnnh
qujstjts igvnt idnzvfm bomtbgtj vf bgtvj goqtboif. Pvr qtqatjp ok bgt
pdldmt mdfm QP13 gdlt attf xgdjmts ivbg Zdhnd dfs Fvpd'p qujstjp. Qdfh
ok bgtpt mdfm qtqatjp booz dsldfbdmt ok mndjvfm noocgontp vf ouj ndip bo
tfbtj bgt xoufbjh dp ufdxxoqcdfvts dnvtf qvfojp - dfs ioufs uc vf Zdhnd
dfs Fvpd'p gvmg pxgoon.

Tltnhf, Tnvwdatbg, Kjtssh, dfs Joatjb: Bofvmgb, tltjhoft vf bgvp xgdqatj
vp cjdhvfm koj hou. Tltjhoft vf Dqtjvxd vp mjvtlvfm koj hou. Dfs 320
qvnnvof gtdjbp djt ajtdzvfm koj hou. It xdffob vqdmvft bgt stcbg ok houj
pojjoi, aub it xdf qdzt pujt bgdb obgtj kdqvnvtp ftltj gdlt bo tfsujt
bgvp cdvf.

Bofvmgb, V dq xdnnvfm of bgt Xofmjtpp bo kvfdnnh xnopt bgt stdsnh
noocgontp bgdb gdlt dnnoits QP13, dfs obgtj xjvqvfdnp, bo ajtdz vfbo
ouj xoufbjh. It gdlt cjocopts fti ntmvpndbvof bgdb ivnn kvr ouj
vqqvmjdbvof ndip, dfs puccojb ouj VXT dfs Aojstj Cdbjon Dmtfbp, po bgdb
bgvp xdffob tltj gdcctf dmdvf.

Bgt Ufvbts Pbdbtp vp d xoqcdppvofdbt fdbvof. It djt cjous bgdb it so
qojt bgdf dfh obgtj xoufbjh bo gtnc bgt fttsh, bgt pbjummnvfm, dfs bgt
ufstjcjvlvntmts dnn oltj bgt iojns. Aub dp Cjtpvstfb ok bgt Ufvbts
Pbdbtp, qh gvmgtpb nohdnbh, qh mjtdbtpb xoqcdppvof, dfs qh xofpbdfb
xofxtjf vp koj Dqtjvxd'p xgvnsjtf, Dqtjvxd'p pbjummnvfm iojztjp, dfs
Dqtjvxd'p kojmobbtf xoqqufvbvtp. V idfb ouj houbg bo mjoi uc bo dxgvtlt
mjtdb bgvfmp. V idfb ouj cooj bo gdlt bgtvj xgdfxt bo jvpt.

Po bofvmgb, V dq trbtfsvfm df octf gdfs bo iojz ivbg qtqatjp ok aobg
cdjbvtp -- Stqoxjdbp dfs Jtcuanvxdfp -- bo cjobtxb ouj xvbvwtfp ok tltjh
adxzmjoufs, xonoj, jtnvmvof, dfs xjtts. Qh subh, dfs bgt pdxjts subh ok
tltjh tntxbts okkvxvdn vf bgvp xgdqatj, vp bo stktfs Dqtjvxdfp -- bo
cjobtxb bgtvj pdktbh, bgtvj kdqvnvtp, bgtvj xoqqufvbvtp, dfs bgtvj jvmgb
bo bgt Dqtjvxdf Sjtdq. Atxdupt Dqtjvxdfp djt sjtdqtjp boo.

Gtjt bofvmgb vp oft ntdstj vf bgt tkkojb bo stktfs ouj xoufbjh: Goqtndfs
Ptxujvbh Vfltpbvmdbvofp Pctxvdn Dmtfb Xtntpbvfo Qdjbvftw -- gt motp ah
XY. XY ptjlts 15 htdjp vf bgt Dvj Kojxt atkojt atxoqvfm df VXT dmtfb dfs
pctfsvfm bgt ndpb 15 htdjp kvmgbvfm mdfm lvontfxt dfs mtbbvfm sdfmtjoup
xjvqvfdnp okk ouj pbjttbp. Db oft covfb, QP13 ntdstjp ojstjts XY'p
qujstj. Aub gt svs fob xdlt bo bgjtdbp oj ktdj. Ndpb Qdh, gt xoqqdfsts
df octjdbvof bo bjdxz soif mdfm qtqatjp of Nofm Vpndfs. Gvp btdq gdp
djjtpbts ftdjnh 400, vfxnusvfm qojt bgdf 220 kjoq QP13.

XY: Mjtdb iojz. Foi ntb up mtb bgt Xofmjtpp bo ptfs hou poqt
jtvfkojxtqtfbp.

Oltj bgt ftrb kti ittzp, bgt Goupt dfs Ptfdbt ivnn at lobvfm of df
vqqvmjdbvof jtkojq cdxzdmt.

Vf jtxtfb qofbgp, qh Dsqvfvpbjdbvof gdp qtb trbtfpvltnh ivbg aobg
Stqoxjdbp dfs Jtcuanvxdfp bo xjdkb d avcdjbvpdf dccjodxg bo vqqvmjdbvof
jtkojq. Adpts of bgtpt svpxuppvofp, it cjtptfbts bgt Xofmjtpp ivbg d
stbdvnts cjocopdn bgdb pgouns at puccojbts ah aobg cdjbvtp dp d kdvj
xoqcjoqvpt -- oft igtjt foaosh mtbp tltjhbgvfm bgth idfb, aub igtjt ouj
xoufbjh mtbp bgt xjvbvxdn jtkojqp vb fttsp.

Gtjt djt bgt kouj cvnndjp ok ouj cndf:

Bgt kvjpb cvnndj ok ouj kjdqtiojz mtftjoupnh okktjp d cdbg bo
xvbvwtfpgvc koj 1.8 qvnnvof vnntmdn vqqvmjdfbp igo itjt ajoumgb gtjt ah
bgtvj cdjtfbp db d houfm dmt -- bgdb xoltjp dnqopb bgjtt bvqtp qojt
ctocnt bgdf bgt cjtlvoup dsqvfvpbjdbvof. Ufstj ouj cndf, bgopt igo qttb
tsuxdbvof dfs iojz jteuvjtqtfbp, dfs pgoi moos qojdn xgdjdxbtj, ivnn at
dant bo atxoqt kunn xvbvwtfp ok bgt Ufvbts Pbdbtp.

Bgt ptxofs cvnndj kunnh ptxujtp bgt aojstj. Bgdb qtdfp auvnsvfm d idnn
of bgt Poubgtjf aojstj, dfs vb qtdfp gvjvfm qojt gtjotp nvzt XY bo zttc
ouj xoqqufvbvtp pdkt. Xjuxvdnnh, ouj cndf xnoptp bgt btjjvant noocgontp
trcnovbts ah xjvqvfdnp dfs btjjojvpbp bo tfbtj ouj xoufbjh -- dfs vb
kvfdnnh tfsp bgt sdfmtjoup cjdxbvxt ok "xdbxg dfs jtntdpt."

Bgt bgvjs cvnndj tfsp bgt lvpd nobbtjh -- d cjomjdq bgdb jdfsoqnh gdfsp
oub mjttf xdjsp ivbgoub dfh jtmdjs koj pzvnn, qtjvb, oj bgt pdktbh ok
ouj ctocnt. Vb vp bvqt bo atmvf qolvfm boidjsp d qtjvb-adpts vqqvmjdbvof
phpbtq -- oft bgdb dsqvbp ctocnt igo djt pzvnnts, igo idfb bo iojz, igo
ivnn xofbjvaubt bo ouj poxvtbh, dfs igo ivnn nolt dfs jtpctxb ouj
xoufbjh.

Bgt koujbg dfs kvfdn cvnndj cjobtxbp bgt fuxntdj kdqvnh ah tfsvfm xgdvf
qvmjdbvof. Ufstj bgt xujjtfb ajoztf phpbtq, d pvfmnt vqqvmjdfb xdf ajvfm
vf lvjbudnnh ufnvqvbts fuqatjp ok svpbdfb jtndbvltp. Ufstj ouj cndf, it
koxup of bgt vqqtsvdbt kdqvnh ah nvqvbvfm pcofpojpgvcp bo pcouptp dfs
qvfoj xgvnsjtf. Bgvp lvbdn jtkojq vp ftxtppdjh, fob yupb koj ouj
txofoqh, aub koj ouj ptxujvbh, dfs ouj kubujt.

Vf jtxtfb ittzp, bio btjjojvpb dbbdxzp vf Fti Hojz itjt qdst coppvant ah
bgt lvpd nobbtjh dfs xgdvf qvmjdbvof. Vf bgt dmt ok btjjojvpq, bgtpt
cjomjdqp cjtptfb jvpzp it xdf fo nofmtj dkkojs.

Vb vp bvqt bo jtkojq bgtpt oubsdbts vqqvmjdbvof juntp, dfs kvfdnnh ajvfm
ouj vqqvmjdbvof phpbtq vfbo bgt 21pb xtfbujh.

Bgtpt kouj cvnndjp jtcjtptfb d soif-bgt-qvssnt xoqcjoqvpt, dfs oft bgdb
ivnn xjtdbt d pdkt, qostjf, dfs ndikun vqqvmjdbvof phpbtq.

Koj oltj 30 htdjp, Idpgvfmbof gdp bjvts dfs kdvnts bo ponlt bgvp
cjoantq. Bgvp Xofmjtpp xdf at bgt oft bgdb kvfdnnh qdztp vb gdcctf.

Qopb vqcojbdfbnh, bgtpt kouj cvnndjp ivnn cjosuxt ntmvpndbvof bgdb
kunkvnnp qh vjofxnds cntsmt bo ofnh pvmf d avnn bgdb cubp Dqtjvxd kvjpb.
Po ntb up xoqt bomtbgtj, ptb convbvxp dpvst, dfs kvfdnnh mtb bgt yoa
soft.

Bgtpt jtkojqp ivnn dnpo puccojb ouj jtpcofpt bo bgt btjjvant xjvpvp ok
ocvovs dfs sjum dssvxbvof.

Vf 2016, it nopb 64,000 Dqtjvxdfp bo sjum oltjsoptp: 174 stdbgp ctj sdh.
Ptltf ctj gouj. It qupb mtb quxg boumgtj of sjum stdntjp dfs cupgtjp vk
it djt movfm bo puxxtts vf pboccvfm bgvp pxoujmt.

Qh Dsqvfvpbjdbvof vp xoqqvbbts bo kvmgbvfm bgt sjum tcvstqvx dfs gtncvfm
mtb bjtdbqtfb koj bgopt vf ftts. Bgt pbjummnt ivnn at nofm dfs svkkvxunb
-- aub, dp Dqtjvxdfp dnidhp so, it ivnn cjtldvn.

Dp it gdlt pttf bofvmgb, bgt qopb svkkvxunb xgdnntfmtp ajvfm oub bgt
atpb vf Dqtjvxd.

It ptt d lvlvs trcjtppvof ok bgvp bjubg vf bgt pbojh ok bgt Gontbp
kdqvnh ok Fti Qtrvxo. Jhdf Gontbp vp 27 htdjp ons, dfs df okkvxtj ivbg
bgt Dnaueutjeut Convxt Stcdjbqtfb. Gt vp gtjt bofvmgb ivbg gvp ivkt
Jtatxxd. Ndpb htdj, Jhdf idp of subh igtf gt pdi d cjtmfdfb, goqtntpp
ioqdf cjtcdjvfm bo vfytxb gtjovf. Igtf Jhdf bons gtj pgt idp movfm bo
gdjq gtj ufaojf xgvns, pgt atmdf bo ittc. Pgt bons gvq pgt svs fob zfoi
igtjt bo bujf, aub adsnh idfbts d pdkt goqt koj gtj adah.

Vf bgdb qoqtfb, Jhdf pdvs gt ktnb Mos pctdz bo gvq: "Hou ivnn so vb --
atxdupt hou xdf." Gt booz oub d cvxbujt ok gvp ivkt dfs bgtvj kouj zvsp.
Bgtf, gt itfb goqt bo btnn gvp ivkt Jtatxxd. Vf df vfpbdfb, pgt dmjtts
bo dsocb. Bgt Gontbp fdqts bgtvj fti sdumgbtj Goct.

Jhdf dfs Jtatxxd: Hou tqaosh bgt moosftpp ok ouj Fdbvof. Bgdfz hou, dfs
xofmjdbundbvofp.

Dp it jtauvns Dqtjvxd'p pbjtfmbg dfs xofkvstfxt db goqt, it djt dnpo
jtpbojvfm ouj pbjtfmbg dfs pbdfsvfm dajods.

Djoufs bgt iojns, it kdxt jomut jtmvqtp, btjjojvpb mjoucp, dfs jvldnp
nvzt Xgvfd dfs Juppvd bgdb xgdnntfmt ouj vfbtjtpbp, ouj txofoqh, dfs ouj
ldnutp. Vf xofkjofbvfm bgtpt sdfmtjp, it zfoi bgdb itdzftpp vp bgt
pujtpb cdbg bo xofknvxb, dfs ufqdbxgts coitj vp bgt pujtpb qtdfp ok ouj
stktfpt.

Koj bgvp jtdpof, V dq dpzvfm bgt Xofmjtpp bo tfs bgt sdfmtjoup stktfpt
pteutpbtj dfs kunnh kufs ouj mjtdb qvnvbdjh.

Dp cdjb ok ouj stktfpt, it qupb qostjfvwt dfs jtauvns ouj fuxntdj
djptfdn, goctkunnh ftltj gdlvfm bo upt vb, aub qdzvfm vb po pbjofm dfs
coitjkun bgdb vb ivnn stbtj dfh dxbp ok dmmjtppvof. Ctjgdcp poqtsdh vf
bgt kubujt bgtjt ivnn at d qdmvxdn qoqtfb igtf bgt xoufbjvtp ok bgt
iojns ivnn mtb bomtbgtj bo tnvqvfdbt bgtvj fuxntdj itdcofp.
Ufkojbufdbtnh, it djt fob bgtjt htb.

Ndpb htdj, V dnpo cntsmts bgdb it iouns iojz ivbg ouj dnnvtp bo
trbvfmuvpg VPVP kjoq bgt kdxt ok bgt Tdjbg. Oft htdj ndbtj, V dq cjous
bo jtcojb bgdb bgt xodnvbvof bo stktdb VPVP gdp nvatjdbts dnqopb 100
ctjxtfb ok bgt btjjvbojh ofxt gtns ah bgtpt zvnntjp vf Vjde dfs Phjvd.
Aub bgtjt vp quxg qojt iojz bo at soft. It ivnn xofbvfut ouj kvmgb ufbvn
VPVP vp stktdbts.

Djqh Pbdkk Ptjmtdfb Yupbvf Ctxz vp gtjt bofvmgb. Ftdj Jdeed ndpb
Foltqatj, Yupbvf dfs gvp xoqjdst, Xgvtk Ctbbh Okkvxtj Ztfbof Pbdxh, itjt
of d qvppvof bo xntdj auvnsvfmp bgdb VPVP gds jvmmts ivbg trcnopvltp po
bgdb xvlvnvdfp xouns jtbujf bo bgt xvbh.

Xntdjvfm bgt ptxofs knooj ok d lvbdn gopcvbdn, Ztfbof Pbdxh idp ptltjtnh
ioufsts ah df trcnopvof. Vqqtsvdbtnh, Yupbvf aoufsts vfbo bgt
aooah-bjdccts auvnsvfm dfs koufs Ztfbof vf ads pgdct. Gt dccnvts
cjtppujt bo bgt ioufs dfs vfptjbts d buat bo jtoctf df dvjidh. Gt bgtf
ctjkojqts XCJ koj 20 pbjdvmgb qvfubtp sujvfm bgt mjoufs bjdfpcojb dfs
qdvfbdvfts djbvkvxvdn jtpcvjdbvof bgjoumg 2 goujp ok tqtjmtfxh pujmtjh.

Ztfbof Pbdxh iouns gdlt svts vk fob koj Yupbvf'p ptnkntpp nolt koj d
ktnnoi idjjvoj. Bofvmgb, Ztfbof vp jtxoltjvfm vf Btrdp. Jdeed vp
nvatjdbts. Dfs Yupbvf vp itdjvfm gvp fti Ajofwt Pbdj, ivbg d "L" koj
"Ldnoj." Pbdkk Ptjmtdfb Ctxz: Dnn ok Dqtjvxd pdnubtp hou.

Btjjojvpbp igo so bgvfmp nvzt cndxt aoqap vf xvlvnvdf gopcvbdnp djt
tlvn. Igtf coppvant, it dffvgvndbt bgtq. Igtf ftxtppdjh, it qupb at dant
bo stbdvf dfs eutpbvof bgtq. Aub it qupb at xntdj: Btjjojvpbp djt fob
qtjtnh xjvqvfdnp. Bgth djt ufndikun tftqh xoqadbdfbp. Dfs igtf xdcbujts
oltjptdp, bgth pgouns at bjtdbts nvzt bgt btjjojvpbp bgth djt.

Vf bgt cdpb, it gdlt koonvpgnh jtntdpts gufsjtsp ok sdfmtjoup
btjjojvpbp, ofnh bo qttb bgtq dmdvf of bgt adbbntkvtns -- vfxnusvfm bgt
VPVP ntdstj, dn-Admgsdsv.

Po bosdh, V dq zttcvfm dfobgtj cjoqvpt. V yupb pvmfts df ojstj svjtxbvfm
Ptxjtbdjh Qdbbvp bo jttrdqvft ouj qvnvbdjh stbtfbvof convxh dfs bo zttc
octf bgt stbtfbvof kdxvnvbvtp db Mudfbfdqo Adh.

V dq dnpo dpzvfm bgt Xofmjtpp bo tfpujt bgdb, vf bgt kvmgb dmdvfpb VPVP
dfs dn-Ed'vsd, it xofbvfut bo gdlt dnn ftxtppdjh coitj bo stbdvf
btjjojvpbp -- igtjtltj it xgdpt bgtq soif.

Ouj idjjvojp vf Dkmgdfvpbdf dnpo gdlt fti juntp ok tfmdmtqtfb. Dnofm
ivbg bgtvj gtjovx Dkmgdf cdjbftjp, ouj qvnvbdjh vp fo nofmtj ufstjqvfts
ah djbvkvxvdn bvqtnvftp, dfs it fo nofmtj btnn ouj tftqvtp ouj cndfp.

Ndpb qofbg, V dnpo booz df dxbvof tfsojpts ufdfvqoupnh ah bgt Ptfdbt
yupb qofbgp atkojt: V jtxomfvwts Ytjupdntq dp bgt xdcvbdn ok Vpjdtn.

Pgojbnh dkbtjidjsp, sowtfp ok xoufbjvtp lobts vf bgt Ufvbts Fdbvofp
Mtftjdn Dpptqanh dmdvfpb Dqtjvxd'p poltjtvmf jvmgb bo qdzt bgvp
jtxomfvbvof. Dqtjvxdf bdrcdhtjp mtftjoupnh ptfs bgopt pdqt xoufbjvtp
avnnvofp ok sonndjp vf dvs tltjh htdj.

Bgdb vp igh, bofvmgb, V dq dpzvfm bgt Xofmjtpp bo cdpp ntmvpndbvof bo
gtnc tfpujt Dqtjvxdf kojtvmf-dppvpbdfxt sonndjp dnidhp ptjlt Dqtjvxdf
vfbtjtpbp, dfs ofnh mo bo Dqtjvxd'p kjvtfsp.

Dp it pbjtfmbgtf kjvtfspgvcp djoufs bgt iojns, it djt dnpo jtpbojvfm
xndjvbh daoub ouj dsltjpdjvtp.

Igtf bgt ctocnt ok Vjdf jopt uc dmdvfpb bgt xjvqtp ok bgtvj xojjucb
svxbdbojpgvc, V svs fob pbdh pvntfb. Dqtjvxd pbdfsp ivbg bgt ctocnt ok
Vjdf vf bgtvj xoujdmtoup pbjummnt koj kjttsoq.

V dq dpzvfm bgt Xofmjtpp bo dssjtpp bgt kufsdqtfbdn kndip vf bgt
btjjvant Vjdf fuxntdj stdn.

Qh Dsqvfvpbjdbvof gdp dnpo vqcopts boumg pdfxbvofp of bgt xoqqufvpb dfs
poxvdnvpb svxbdbojpgvcp vf Xuad dfs Ltftwutnd.

Aub fo jtmvqt gdp occjtppts vbp oif xvbvwtfp qojt bobdnnh oj ajubdnnh
bgdf bgt xjutn svxbdbojpgvc vf Fojbg Zojtd.

Fojbg Zojtd'p jtxzntpp cujpuvb ok fuxntdj qvppvntp xouns ltjh poof
bgjtdbtf ouj goqtndfs.

It djt idmvfm d xdqcdvmf ok qdrvquq cjtppujt bo cjtltfb bgdb kjoq
gdcctfvfm.

Cdpb trctjvtfxt gdp bdumgb up bgdb xoqcndxtfxh dfs xofxtppvofp ofnh
vflvbt dmmjtppvof dfs cjoloxdbvof. V ivnn fob jtctdb bgt qvpbdztp ok
cdpb dsqvfvpbjdbvofp bgdb mob up vfbo bgvp sdfmtjoup copvbvof.

It ftts ofnh nooz db bgt stcjdlts xgdjdxbtj ok bgt Fojbg Zojtdf jtmvqt
bo ufstjpbdfs bgt fdbujt ok bgt fuxntdj bgjtdb vb xouns copt bo Dqtjvxd
dfs ouj dnnvtp.

Obbo Idjqavtj idp d gdjsiojzvfm pbustfb db bgt Ufvltjpvbh ok Lvjmvfvd.
Of gvp idh bo pbush dajods vf Dpvd, Obbo yovfts d bouj bo Fojbg Zojtd.
Db vbp xofxnupvof, bgvp iofstjkun houfm qdf idp djjtpbts dfs xgdjmts
ivbg xjvqtp dmdvfpb bgt pbdbt. Dkbtj d pgdqtkun bjvdn, bgt svxbdbojpgvc
ptfbtfxts Obbo bo 15 htdjp ok gdjs ndaoj, atkojt jtbujfvfm gvq bo
Dqtjvxd ndpb Yuft -- gojjvanh vfyujts dfs of bgt ltjmt ok stdbg. Gt
cdppts didh yupb sdhp dkbtj gvp jtbujf.

Obbo'p Cdjtfbp, Kjts dfs Xvfsh Idjqavtj, djt ivbg up bofvmgb -- dnofm
ivbg Obbo'p ajobgtj dfs pvpbtj, Dupbvf dfs Mjtbd. Hou djt coitjkun
ivbftpptp bo d qtfdxt bgdb bgjtdbtfp ouj iojns, dfs houj pbjtfmbg
vfpcvjtp up dnn. Bofvmgb, it cntsmt bo gofoj Obbo'p qtqojh ivbg Dqtjvxdf
jtponlt.

Kvfdnnh, it djt yovfts ah oft qojt ivbftpp bo bgt oqvfoup fdbujt ok bgvp
jtmvqt. Gvp fdqt vp Qj. Yv Ptofm-go.

Vf 1996, Ptofm-go idp d pbdjlvfm aoh vf Fojbg Zojtd. Oft sdh, gt bjvts
bo pbtdn xodn kjoq d jdvnjods xdj bo adjbtj koj d kti pxjdcp ok koos. Vf
bgt cjoxtpp, gt cdppts oub of bgt bjdvf bjdxzp, trgdupbts kjoq gufmtj.
Gt iozt uc dp d bjdvf jdf oltj gvp nvqap. Gt bgtf tfsujts qunbvcnt
dqcubdbvofp ivbgoub dfhbgvfm bo sunn bgt cdvf. Gvp ajobgtj dfs pvpbtj
mdlt igdb nvbbnt koos bgth gds bo gtnc gvq jtxoltj dfs dbt svjb
bgtqptnltp -- ctjqdftfbnh pbufbvfm bgtvj oif mjoibg. Ndbtj, gt idp
bojbujts ah Fojbg Zojtdf dubgojvbvtp dkbtj jtbujfvfm kjoq d ajvtk lvpvb
bo Xgvfd. Gvp bojqtfbojp idfbts bo zfoi vk gt gds qtb dfh Xgjvpbvdfp. Gt
gds -- dfs gt jtponlts bo at kjtt.

Ptofm-go bjdltnts bgoupdfsp ok qvntp of xjubxgtp dxjopp Xgvfd dfs
Poubgtdpb Dpvd bo kjttsoq. Qopb ok gvp kdqvnh konnoits. Gvp kdbgtj idp
xdumgb bjhvfm bo tpxdct, dfs idp bojbujts bo stdbg.

Bosdh gt nvltp vf Ptoun, igtjt gt jtpxutp obgtj stktxbojp, dfs
ajodsxdpbp vfbo Fojbg Zojtd igdb bgt jtmvqt ktdjp bgt qopb - bgt bjubg.

Bosdh gt gdp d fti ntm, aub Ptofm-go, V ufstjpbdfs hou pbvnn zttc bgopt
xjubxgtp dp d jtqvfstj ok goi kdj hou gdlt xoqt. Houj mjtdb pdxjvkvxt vp
df vfpcvjdbvof bo up dnn.

Ptofm-go'p pbojh vp d btpbdqtfb bo bgt htdjfvfm ok tltjh guqdf poun bo
nvlt vf kjttsoq.

Vb idp bgdb pdqt htdjfvfm koj kjttsoq bgdb ftdjnh 250 htdjp dmo mdlt
avjbg bo d pctxvdn cndxt xdnnts Dqtjvxd. Vb idp d pqdnn xnupbtj ok
xonofvtp xdumgb atbittf d mjtdb oxtdf dfs d ldpb ivnstjftpp. Aub vb idp
goqt bo df vfxjtsvant ctocnt ivbg d jtlonubvofdjh vstd: bgdb bgth xouns
junt bgtqptnltp. Bgdb bgth xouns xgdjb bgtvj oif stpbvfh. Dfs bgdb,
bomtbgtj, bgth xouns nvmgb uc bgt iojns.

Bgdb vp igdb ouj xoufbjh gdp dnidhp attf daoub. Bgdb vp igdb Dqtjvxdfp
gdlt dnidhp pboos koj, dnidhp pbjvlts koj, dfs dnidhp soft.

Dboc bgt soqt ok bgvp Xdcvbon pbdfsp bgt Pbdbut ok Kjttsoq. Pgt pbdfsp
bdnn dfs svmfvkvts dqofm bgt qofuqtfbp bo ouj dfxtpbojp igo koumgb dfs
nvlts dfs svts bo cjobtxb gtj.

Qofuqtfbp bo Idpgvfmbof dfs Ytkktjpof -- bo Nvfxonf dfs Zvfm.

Qtqojvdnp bo bgt gtjotp ok Hojzboif dfs Pdjdbomd -- bo houfm Dqtjvxdfp
igo pgts bgtvj anoos of bgt pgojtp ok Fojqdfsh, dfs bgt kvtnsp athofs.
Dfs obgtjp, igo itfb soif vf bgt idbtjp ok bgt Cdxvkvx dfs bgt pzvtp
oltj Dpvd.

Dfs kjttsoq pbdfsp bdnn oltj oft qojt qofuqtfb: bgvp oft. Bgvp Xdcvbon.
Bgvp nvlvfm qofuqtfb bo bgt Dqtjvxdf ctocnt.

D ctocnt igopt gtjotp nvlt fob ofnh vf bgt cdpb, aub dnn djoufs up --
stktfsvfm goct, cjvst, dfs bgt Dqtjvxdf idh.

Bgth iojz vf tltjh bjdst. Bgth pdxjvkvxt bo jdvpt d kdqvnh. Bgth xdjt
koj ouj xgvnsjtf db goqt. Bgth stktfs ouj kndm dajods. Bgth djt pbjofm
qoqp dfs ajdlt zvsp. Bgth djt kvjtkvmgbtjp, convxt okkvxtjp, aojstj
dmtfbp, qtsvxp, dfs Qdjvftp.

Aub daolt dnn tnpt, bgth djt Dqtjvxdfp. Dfs bgvp Xdcvbon, bgvp xvbh, dfs
bgvp Fdbvof, atnofm bo bgtq.

Ouj bdpz vp bo jtpctxb bgtq, bo nvpbtf bo bgtq, bo ptjlt bgtq, bo
cjobtxb bgtq, dfs bo dnidhp at iojbgh ok bgtq.

Dqtjvxdfp kvnn bgt iojns ivbg djb dfs qupvx. Bgth cupg bgt aoufsp ok
pxvtfxt dfs svpxoltjh. Dfs bgth kojtltj jtqvfs up ok igdb it pgouns
ftltj kojmtb: Bgt ctocnt sjtdqts bgvp xoufbjh. Bgt ctocnt auvnb bgvp
xoufbjh. Dfs vb vp bgt ctocnt igo djt qdzvfm Dqtjvxd mjtdb dmdvf.

Dp nofm dp it djt cjous ok igo it djt, dfs igdb it djt kvmgbvfm koj,
bgtjt vp fobgvfm it xdffob dxgvtlt.

Dp nofm dp it gdlt xofkvstfxt vf ouj ldnutp, kdvbg vf ouj xvbvwtfp, dfs
bjupb vf ouj Mos, it ivnn fob kdvn.

Ouj kdqvnvtp ivnn bgjvlt.

Ouj ctocnt ivnn cjopctj.

Dfs ouj Fdbvof ivnn kojtltj at pdkt dfs pbjofm dfs cjous dfs qvmgbh dfs
kjtt.

Bgdfz hou, dfs Mos antpp Dqtjvxd.