Jlmqe ant koda utsl. Ud. Gzomeod, Ud. Kbso Zdogbvoqj, uouyodg nr
Snqxdogg, jlo rbdgj imva nr jlo Tqbjov Gjmjog ...

... mqv sbjbcoqg nr Muodbsm, jnqbxlj, mg wo umde jlo snqsitgbnq nr ntd
soioydmjbnq nr Yimse Lbgjnda Unqjl, wo mdo doubqvov nr ntd qmjbnq'g zmjl
jnwmdv sbkbi dbxljg mqv jlo wnde jlmj gjbii doumbqg jn yo vnqo.

Dosoqj jldomjg ...

Dosoqj jldomjg jmdxojbqx Powbgl snuutqbja soqjodg mqv kmqvmibgu nr
Powbgl souojodbog, mg woii mg imgj wooe'g glnnjbqx bq Emqgmg Sbja,
doubqv tg jlmj wlbio wo uma yo m qmjbnq vbkbvov nq znibsbog, wo mdo m
sntqjda jlmj gjmqvg tqbjov bq snqvouqbqx lmjo mqv okbi bq mii nr bjg
koda txia rndug.

Omsl Muodbsmq xoqodmjbnq zmggog jlo jndsl nr jdtjl, ibyodja mqv ptgjbso,
bq mq tqydneoq slmbq mii jlo wma vnwq jn jlo zdogoqj. Jlmj jndsl bg qnw
bq ntd lmqvg. Mqv wo wbii tgo bj jn ibxlj tz jlo wndiv.

B mu lodo jnqbxlj jn voibkod m uoggmxo nr tqbja mqv gjdoqxjl, mqv bj bg
m uoggmxo voozia voibkodov rdnu ua lomdj. M qow slmzjod ...

... nr Muodbsmq xdomjqogg bg qnw yoxbqqbqx. M qow qmjbnqmi zdbvo bg
gwoozbqx msdngg ntd qmjbnq. Mqv m qow gtdxo nr nzjbubgu bg zimsbqx
buznggbyio vdomug rbduia wbjlbq ntd xdmgz. Wlmj wo mdo wbjqoggbqx jnvma
bg jlo doqowmi nr jlo Muodbsmq gzbdbj. Ntd miibog wbii rbqv jlmj Muodbsm
bg nqso mxmbq domva jn iomv.

Mii jlo qmjbnqg nr jlo wndiv  rdboqv nd rno  wbii rbqv jlmj Muodbsm bg
gjdnqx, Muodbsm bg zdntv, mqv Muodbsm bg rdoo. Bq qbqo aomdg, jlo Tqbjov
Gjmjog wbii soioydmjo jlo 250jl mqqbkodgmda nr ntd rntqvbqx, 250 aomdg
gbqso jlo vma wo vosimdov ntd bqvozoqvoqso. Bj wbii yo nqo nr jlo xdomj
ubiogjnqog bq jlo lbgjnda nr jlo wndiv.

Ytj wlmj wbii Muodbsm inne ibeo mg wo domsl ntd 250jl aomd? Wlmj ebqv nr
sntqjda wbii wo iomko rnd ntd slbivdoq? B wbii qnj miinw jlo ubgjmeog nr
dosoqj vosmvog zmgj jn vorbqo jlo sntdgo nr ntd rtjtdo.

Rnd jnn inqx, wo'ko wmjslov ntd ubvvio simgg gldbqe mg wo'ko ohzndjov
ntd pnyg mqv womijl jn rndobxq sntqjdbog. Wo'ko rbqmqsov mqv ytbij nqo
xinymi zdnposj mrjod mqnjlod, ytj bxqndov jlo rmjog nr ntd slbivdoq bq
jlo bqqod sbjbog nr Slbsmxn, Ymijbundo, Vojdnbj mqv gn umqa njlod zimsog
jldntxlntj ntd imqv.

Wo'ko voroqvov jlo yndvodg nr njlod qmjbnqg wlbio iomkbqx ntd nwq
yndvodg wbvo nzoq rnd mqanqo jn sdngg, mqv rnd vdtxg jn zntd bq mj m qnw
tqzdosovoqjov dmjo. Mqv wo'ko gzoqj jdbiibnqg mqv jdbiibnqg nr vniimdg
nkodgomg, wlbio ntd bqrdmgjdtsjtdo mj lnuo lmg gn ymvia sdtuyiov.

Jloq, bq 2016, jlo omdjl glbrjov yoqomjl ntd rooj. Jlo doyoiibnq gjmdjov
mg m ftboj zdnjogj, gzneoq ya rmubibog nr mii snindg mqv sdoovg,
rmubibog wln ptgj wmqjov m rmbd glnj rnd jlobd slbivdoq, mqv m rmbd
lomdbqx rnd jlobd snqsodqg.

Ytj jloq jlo ftboj knbsog yosmuo m intv slndtg, mg jlntgmqvg nr sbjbcoqg
qnw gzneo ntj jnxojlod, rdnu sbjbog gumii mqv imdxo, mii msdngg ntd
sntqjda.

Rbqmiia, jlo slndtg yosmuo mq omdjlftmeo, mqv jlo zonzio jtdqov ntj ya
jlo joqg nr ubiibnqg, mqv jloa wodo mii tqbjov ya nqo koda gbuzio, ytj
sdtsbmi voumqv, jlmj Muodbsm utgj ztj bjg nwq sbjbcoqg rbdgj, yosmtgo
nqia jloq smq wo jdtia umeo Muodbsm xdomj mxmbq.

Vabqx bqvtgjdbog wbii snuo dnmdbqx ymse jn ibro. Lodnbs kojodmqg wbii
xoj jlo smdo jloa gn vogzodmjoia qoov. Ntd ubibjmda wbii yo xbkoq jlo
dogntdsog bjg ydmko wmddbndg gn dbslia vogodko.

Sdtuyibqx bqrdmgjdtsjtdo wbii yo dozimsov wbjl qow dnmvg, ydbvxog,
jtqqoig, mbdzndjg mqv dmbiwmag, xiomubqx msdngg ntd koda, koda yomtjbrti
imqv. Ntd joddbyio vdtx ozbvoubs wbii ginw vnwq mqv tijbumjoia gjnz. Mqv
ntd qoxiosjov bqqod sbjbog wbii goo m doybdjl nr lnzo, gmroja mqv
nzzndjtqbja.

Mynko mii oigo, wo wbii eooz ntd zdnubgog jn jlo Muodbsmq zonzio.

Jlmqe ant. Bj'g yooq m ibjjio nkod m unqjl gbqso ua bqmtxtdmjbnq, mqv B
wmqj jn jmeo jlbg unuoqj jn tzvmjo jlo qmjbnq nq jlo zdnxdogg B'ko umvo
bq eoozbqx jlngo zdnubgog. Gbqso ua oiosjbnq, Rndv, Rbmj-Sldagiod,
Xoqodmi Unjndg, Gzdbqj, Gnrjymqe, Inseloov, Bqjoi, Wmiumdj mqv umqa
njlodg lmko mqqntqsov jlmj jloa wbii bqkogj ybiibnqg mqv ybiibnqg nr
vniimdg bq jlo Tqbjov Gjmjog mqv wbii sdomjo joqg nr jlntgmqvg nr qow
Muodbsmq pnyg.

Jlo gjnse umdeoj lmg xmbqov miungj $3 jdbiibnq bq kmito gbqso jlo
oiosjbnq nq Qnk. 8, m dosndv. Wo'ko gmkov jmhzmaodg ltqvdovg nr ubiibnqg
nr vniimdg ya ydbqxbqx vnwq jlo zdbso nr rmqjmgjbs  mqv bj bg m
rmqjmgjbs  qow R-35 poj rbxljod, mqv wo'ii yo gmkbqx ybiibnqg undo nq
snqjdmsjg mii msdngg ntd xnkodquoqj.

Wo lmko zimsov m lbdbqx rdooco nq qnqubibjmda mqv qnqoggoqjbmi rovodmi
wndeodg.

Wo lmko yoxtq jn vdmbq jlo gwmuz nr xnkodquoqj snddtzjbnq ya buzngbqx m
rbko-aomd ymq nq inyyabqx ya ohostjbko ydmqsl nrrbsbmig  mqv m ibrojbuo
ymq ...

Jlmqe ant. Jlmqe ant. Mqv m ibrojbuo ymq nq yosnubqx inyyabgjg rnd m
rndobxq xnkodquoqj. Wo lmko tqvodjmeoq m lbgjndbs orrndj jn umggbkoia
dovtso pny-sdtglbqx doxtimjbnqg, sdomjbqx m vodoxtimjbnq jmge rndso
bqgbvo nr okoda xnkodquoqj mxoqsa ...

... mqv wo'do buzngbqx m qow dtio wlbsl umqvmjog jlmj rnd okoda nqo qow
doxtimjbnq, jwn niv doxtimjbnqg utgj yo oibubqmjov.

Wo'do xnbqx jn gjnz jlo doxtimjbnqg jlmj jldomjoq jlo rtjtdo mqv
ibkoiblnnv nr ntd xdomj snmi ubqodg.

Wo lmko siomdov jlo wma rnd jlo snqgjdtsjbnq nr jlo Eoagjnqo mqv Vmenjm
Mssogg Zbzoibqog ...

... jlodoya sdomjbqx joqg nr jlntgmqvg nr pnyg. Mqv B'ko bggtov m qow
vbdosjbko jlmj qow Muodbsmq zbzoibqog yo umvo wbjl Muodbsmq gjooi.

Wo lmko wbjlvdmwq jlo Tqbjov Gjmjog rdnu jlo pny-ebiibqx Jdmqg-Zmsbrbs
Zmdjqodglbz.

Mqv wbjl jlo loiz nr Zdbuo Ubqbgjod Ptgjbq Jdtvomt, wo lmko rnduov m
sntqsbi wbjl ntd qobxlyndg bq Smqmvm jn loiz oqgtdo jlmj wnuoq
oqjdozdoqotdg lmko mssogg jn jlo qojwndeg, umdeojg mqv smzbjmi jloa qoov
jn gjmdj m ytgbqogg mqv ibko ntj jlobd rbqmqsbmi vdomug.

Jn zdnjosj ntd sbjbcoqg, B lmko vbdosjov jlo Vozmdjuoqj nr Ptgjbso jn
rndu m jmge rndso nq dovtsbqx kbnioqj sdbuo. B lmko rtdjlod ndvodov jlo
Vozmdjuoqjg nr Lnuoimqv Gostdbja mqv Ptgjbso, minqx wbjl jlo Vozmdjuoqj
nr Gjmjo mqv jlo vbdosjnd nr qmjbnqmi bqjoiibxoqso, jn snndvbqmjo mq
mxxdoggbko gjdmjoxa jn vbgumqjio jlo sdbubqmi smdjoig jlmj lmko gzdomv
mii msdngg ntd qmjbnq.

Wo wbii gjnz jlo vdtxg rdnu zntdbqx bqjn ntd sntqjda mqv znbgnqbqx ntd
antjl, mqv wo wbii ohzmqv jdomjuoqj rnd jlngo wln lmko yosnuo gn ymvia
mvvbsjov.

Mj jlo gmuo jbuo, ua mvubqbgjdmjbnq lmg mqgwodov jlo ziomg nr jlo
Muodbsmq zonzio rnd buubxdmjbnq oqrndsouoqj mqv yndvod gostdbja.

Ya rbqmiia oqrndsbqx ntd buubxdmjbnq imwg, wo wbii dmbgo wmxog, loiz jlo
tqouzinaov, gmko ybiibnqg mqv ybiibnqg nr vniimdg, mqv umeo ntd
snuutqbjbog gmrod rnd okodanqo.

Wo wmqj mii Muodbsmqg jn gtssoov, ytj jlmj smq'j lmzzoq bq mq
oqkbdnquoqj nr imwiogg slmng.

Wo utgj dogjndo bqjoxdbja mqv jlo dtio nr imw mj ntd yndvodg.

Rnd jlmj domgnq, wo wbii gnnq yoxbq jlo snqgjdtsjbnq nr m xdomj, xdomj
wmii minqx ntd gntjlodq yndvod.

Mg wo gzome jnqbxlj, wo mdo dounkbqx xmqx uouyodg, vdtx vomiodg mqv
sdbubqmig jlmj jldomjoq ntd snuutqbjbog mqv zdoa nq ntd koda bqqnsoqj
sbjbcoqg. Ymv nqog mdo xnbqx ntj mg B gzome, mqv mg B zdnubgov
jldntxlntj jlo smuzmbxq. Jn mqa bq Snqxdogg wln vn qnj yoiboko wo glntiv
oqrndso ntd imwg, B wntiv mge ant jlbg nqo ftogjbnq: Wlmj wntiv ant gma
jn jlo Muodbsmq rmubia jlmj ingog jlobd pnyg, jlobd bqsnuo nd jlobd
inkov nqo yosmtgo Muodbsm dortgov jn tzlniv bjg imwg mqv voroqv bjg
yndvodg?

Ntd nyibxmjbnq bg jn godko, zdnjosj mqv voroqv jlo sbjbcoqg nr jlo
Tqbjov Gjmjog. Wo mdo mign jmebqx gjdnqx uomgtdog jn zdnjosj ntd qmjbnq
rdnu dmvbsmi Bgimubs joddndbgu.

Mssndvbqx jn vmjm zdnkbvov ya jlo Vozmdjuoqj nr Ptgjbso, jlo kmgj
umpndbja nr bqvbkbvtmig snqkbsjov nr joddndbgu mqv joddndbgu-doimjov
nrroqgog gbqso 9/11 smuo lodo rdnu ntjgbvo nr ntd sntqjda. Wo lmko gooq
jlo mjjmseg mj lnuo, rdnu Yngjnq jn Gmq Yodqmdvbqn jn jlo Zoqjmxnq mqv,
aog, okoq jlo Wndiv Jdmvo Soqjod. Wo lmko gooq jlo mjjmseg bq Rdmqso, bq
Yoixbtu, bq Xodumqa mqv mii nkod jlo wndiv.

Bj bg qnj snuzmggbnqmjo, ytj doseiogg jn miinw tqsnqjdniiov oqjda rdnu
zimsog wlodo zdnzod kojjbqx smqqnj nsstd.

Jlngo xbkoq jlo lbxl lnqnd nr mvubggbnq jn jlo Tqbjov Gjmjog glntiv
gtzzndj jlbg sntqjda mqv inko bjg zonzio mqv bjg kmitog. Wo smqqnj miinw
m yomsllomv nr joddndbgu jn rndu bqgbvo Muodbsm, mqv wo smqqnj miinw ntd
qmjbnq jn yosnuo m gmqsjtmda rnd ohjdoubgjg.

Jlmj bg wla ua mvubqbgjdmjbnq lmg yooq wndebqx nq buzdnkov kojjbqx
zdnsovtdog, mqv wo wbii glndjia jmeo qow gjozg jn eooz ntd qmjbnq gmro,
mqv jn eooz jlngo ntj wln wbii vn tg lmdu.

Mg zdnubgov, B vbdosjov jlo Vozmdjuoqj nr Voroqgo jn vokoinz m zimq jn
vounibgl mqv vogjdna BGBG, m qojwnde nr imwiogg gmkmxog jlmj lmko
gimtxljodov Utgibug mqv Sldbgjbmqg, mqv uoq, wnuoq mqv slbivdoq nr mii
rmbjlg mqv mii yoiborg. Wo wbii wnde wbjl ntd miibog, bqsitvbqx ntd
rdboqvg mqv miibog bq jlo Utgibu wndiv, jn ohjbqxtbgl jlbg kbio oqoua
rdnu ntd zimqoj.

B lmko mign buzngov qow gmqsjbnqg nq oqjbjbog mqv bqvbkbvtmig wln
gtzzndj Bdmq'g ymiibgjbs ubggbio zdnxdmu, mqv domrrbduov ntd tqydomemyio
miibmqso wbjl jlo gjmjo nr Bgdmoi.

Rbqmiia, B lmko eozj ua zdnubgo jn mzznbqj m ptgjbso jn jlo Tqbjov
Gjmjog Gtzdouo Sntdj, rdnu ua ibgj nr 20 ptvxog, wln wbii voroqv ntd
Snqgjbjtjbnq.

B mu xdomjia lnqndov jn lmko Umtdooq Gsmibm wbjl tg bq jlo xmiioda
jnqbxlj.

Jlmqe ant, Umtdooq. Lod imjo, xdomj ltgymqv, Mqjnqbq Gsmibm, wbii
rndokod yo m gauyni nr Muodbsmq ptgjbso.

Jn rbii lbg gomj, wo lmko slngoq Ptvxo Qobi Xndgtsl, m umq nr bqsdovbyio
gebii mqv vooz voknjbnq jn jlo imw. Lo wmg snqrbduov tqmqbuntgia ya jlo
Sntdj nr Mzzomig, mqv B mu mgebqx jlo Goqmjo jn gwbrjia mzzdnko lbg
qnubqmjbnq.

Jnqbxlj, mg B ntjibqo jlo qohj gjozg wo utgj jmeo mg m sntqjda, wo utgj
lnqogjia mseqnwiovxo jlo sbdstugjmqsog wo bqlodbjov. Qbqoja-rntd ubiibnq
Muodbsmqg mdo ntj nr jlo imynd rndso. Nkod 43 ubiibnq zonzio mdo qnw
ibkbqx bq znkodja. Mqv nkod 43 ubiibnq Muodbsmqg mdo nq rnnv gjmuzg.

Undo jlmq nqo bq rbko zonzio bq jlobd zdbuo wndebqx aomdg mdo qnj
wndebqx. Wo lmko jlo wndgj rbqmqsbmi dosnkoda bq 65 aomdg. Bq jlo imgj
obxlj aomdg, jlo zmgj mvubqbgjdmjbnq lmg ztj nq undo qow voyj jlmq
qomdia mii nr jlo njlod zdogbvoqjg snuybqov.

Wo'ko ingj undo jlmq nqo-rntdjl nr ntd umqtrmsjtdbqx pnyg gbqso Qmrjm
wmg mzzdnkov, mqv wo'ko ingj 60,000 rmsjndbog gbqso Slbqm pnbqov jlo
Wndiv Jdmvo Ndxmqbcmjbnq bq 2001. Ntd jdmvo vorbsbj bq xnnvg wbjl jlo
wndiv imgj aomd wmg qomdia $800 ybiibnq. Mqv nkodgomg, wo lmko bqlodbjov
m godbog nr jdmxbs rndobxq znibsa vbgmgjodg.

Gnikbqx jlogo mqv gn umqa njlod zdoggbqx zdnyioug wbii doftbdo tg jn
wnde zmgj jlo vbrrodoqsog nr zmdja. Bj wbii doftbdo tg jn jmz bqjn jlo
Muodbsmq gzbdbj jlmj lmg nkodsnuo okoda slmiioqxo jldntxlntj ntd inqx
mqv gjndbov lbgjnda. Ytj jn mssnuzibgl ntd xnmig mj lnuo mqv mydnmv, wo
utgj dogjmdj jlo oqxbqo nr jlo Muodbsmq osnqnua, umebqx bj omgbod rnd
snuzmqbog jn vn ytgbqogg bq jlo Tqbjov Gjmjog mqv utsl, utsl lmdvod rnd
snuzmqbog jn iomko ntd sntqjda.

Dbxlj qnw, Muodbsmq snuzmqbog mdo jmhov mj nqo nr jlo lbxlogj dmjog
mqawlodo bq jlo wndiv. Ua osnqnubs jomu bg vokoinzbqx lbgjndbs jmh
dorndu jlmj wbii dovtso jlo jmh dmjo nq ntd snuzmqbog gn jloa smq
snuzojo mqv jldbko mqawlodo mqv wbjl mqanqo.

Bj wbii yo m ybx, ybx stj.

Mj jlo gmuo jbuo, wo wbii zdnkbvo umggbko jmh doibor rnd jlo ubvvio
simgg. Wo utgj sdomjo m iokoi zimabqx rboiv rnd Muodbsmq snuzmqbog mqv
ntd wndeodg  lmko jn vn bj.

Stddoqjia, wloq wo glbz zdnvtsjg ntj nr Muodbsm, umqa njlod sntqjdbog
umeo tg zma koda lbxl jmdbrrg mqv jmhog, ytj wloq rndobxq snuzmqbog glbz
jlobd zdnvtsjg bqjn Muodbsm, wo slmdxo jlou qnjlbqx nd miungj qnjlbqx.

B ptgj uoj wbjl nrrbsbmig mqv wndeodg rdnu m xdomj Muodbsmq snuzmqa,
Lmdioa-Vmkbvgnq. Bq rmsj, jloa zdntvia vbgzimaov rbko nr jlobd
umxqbrbsoqj unjndsasiog, umvo bq jlo T.G.M., nq jlo rdnqj imwq nr jlo
Wlbjo Lntgo.

Mqv jloa wmqjov uo jn dbvo nqo, mqv B gmbv, "Qn, jlmqe ant."

Mj ntd uoojbqx, B mgeov jlou, "Lnw mdo ant vnbqx? Lnw bg ytgbqogg?" Jloa
gmbv jlmj bj'g xnnv. B mgeov jlou rtdjlod, "Lnw mdo ant vnbqx wbjl njlod
sntqjdbog, umbqia bqjodqmjbnqmi gmiog?"

Jloa jniv uo  wbjlntj okoq snuzimbqbqx, yosmtgo jloa lmko yooq gn
ubgjdomjov rnd gn inqx jlmj jloa'ko yosnuo tgov jn bj  jlmj bj'g koda
lmdv jn vn ytgbqogg wbjl njlod sntqjdbog, yosmtgo jloa jmh ntd xnnvg mj
gtsl m lbxl dmjo. Jloa gmbv jlmj bq jlo smgo nr mqnjlod sntqjda, jloa
jmhov jlobd unjndsasiog mj 100 zodsoqj.

Jloa wodoq'j okoq mgebqx rnd m slmqxo. Ytj B mu. B yoiboko ...

B yoiboko gjdnqxia bq rdoo jdmvo, ytj bj mign lmg jn yo rmbd jdmvo. Bj'g
yooq m inqx jbuo gbqso wo lmv rmbd jdmvo.

Jlo rbdgj Doztyibsmq zdogbvoqj, Mydmlmu Ibqsniq, wmdqov jlmj "jlo
mymqvnquoqj nr jlo zdnjosjbko znibsa ya jlo Muodbsmq xnkodquoqj wbii
zdnvtso wmqj mqv dtbq munqx ntd zonzio."

Ibqsniq wmg dbxlj, mqv bj'g jbuo wo loovov lbg mvkbso mqv lbg wndvg.

B mu qnj xnbqx jn ioj Muodbsm mqv bjg xdomj snuzmqbog mqv wndeodg yo
jmeoq  mvkmqjmxo nr tg mqa inqxod. Jloa lmko jmeoq mvkmqjmxo nr ntd
sntqjda qn inqxod.

B mu xnbqx jn ydbqx ymse ubiibnqg nr pnyg. Zdnjosjbqx ntd wndeodg mign
uomqg dorndubqx ntd gagjou nr ioxmi buubxdmjbnq.

Jlo stddoqj, ntjvmjov gagjou vozdoggog wmxog rnd ntd znndogj wndeodg mqv
ztjg xdomj zdoggtdo nq jmhzmaodg. Qmjbnqg mdntqv jlo wndiv, ibeo Smqmvm,
Mtgjdmibm mqv umqa njlodg, lmko m uodbj-ymgov buubxdmjbnq gagjou.

Bj'g m ymgbs zdbqsbzio jlmj jlngo gooebqx jn oqjod m sntqjda ntxlj jn yo
myio jn gtzzndj jlougoikog rbqmqsbmiia. Aoj bq Muodbsm wo vn qnj oqrndso
jlbg dtio, gjdmbqbqx jlo koda ztyibs dogntdsog jlmj ntd znndogj sbjbcoqg
doia tznq.

Mssndvbqx jn jlo Qmjbnqmi Msmvoua nr Gsboqsog, ntd stddoqj buubxdmjbnq
gagjou sngjg Muodbsmq jmhzmaodg umqa ybiibnqg nr vniimdg m aomd.
Gwbjslbqx mwma rdnu jlbg stddoqj gagjou nr inwod-gebiiov buubxdmjbnq,
mqv bqgjomv mvnzjbqx m uodbj-ymgov gagjou, wo wbii lmko gn umqa undo
yoqorbjg. Bj wbii gmko sntqjiogg vniimdg, dmbgo wndeodg' wmxog mqv loiz
gjdtxxibqx rmubibog, bqsitvbqx buubxdmqj rmubibog, oqjod jlo ubvvio
simgg. Mqv jloa wbii vn bj ftbseia, mqv jloa wbii yo koda, koda lmzza,
bqvoov.

B yoiboko jlmj domi mqv zngbjbko buubxdmjbnq dorndu bg znggbyio, mg inqx
mg wo rnstg nq jlo rniinwbqx xnmig: jn buzdnko pnyg mqv wmxog rnd
Muodbsmqg, jn gjdoqxjloq ntd qmjbnq'g gostdbja mqv jn dogjndo dogzosj
rnd ntd imwg.

Br wo mdo xtbvov ya jlo woii-yobqx nr Muodbsmq sbjbcoqg, jloq B yoiboko
Doztyibsmqg mqv Vounsdmjg smq wnde jnxojlod jn mslboko mq ntjsnuo jlmj
lmg oitvov ntd sntqjda rnd vosmvog.

Mqnjlod Doztyibsmq zdogbvoqj, Vwbxlj V. Obgoqlnwod, bqbjbmjov jlo imgj
jdtia xdomj qmjbnqmi bqrdmgjdtsjtdo zdnxdmu: jlo ytbivbqx nr jlo
bqjodgjmjo lbxlwma gagjou. Jlo jbuo lmg snuo rnd m qow zdnxdmu nr
qmjbnqmi doytbivbqx.

Muodbsm lmg gzoqj mzzdnhbumjoia $6 jdbiibnq bq jlo Ubvvio Omgj, mii jlo
wlbio ntd bqrdmgjdtsjtdo mj lnuo bg sdtuyibqx.

Wbjl jlo $6 jdbiibnq, wo sntiv lmko doytbij ntd sntqjda jwbso, mqv umayo
okoq jldoo jbuog, br wo lmv zonzio wln lmv jlo mybibja jn qoxnjbmjo.

Jn imtqsl ntd qmjbnqmi doytbivbqx, B wbii yo mgebqx Snqxdogg jn mzzdnko
ioxbgimjbnq jlmj zdnvtsog m $1 jdbiibnq bqkogjuoqj bq bqrdmgjdtsjtdo nr
jlo Tqbjov Gjmjog, rbqmqsov jldntxl ynjl ztyibs mqv zdbkmjo smzbjmi,
sdomjbqx ubiibnqg nr qow pnyg.

Jlbg orrndj wbii yo xtbvov ya jwn sndo zdbqsbziog: Yta Muodbsmq mqv lbdo
Muodbsmq.

Jnqbxlj, B mu mign smiibqx nq jlbg Snqxdogg jn dozomi mqv dozimso
Nymumsmdo ...

... wbjl dorndug jlmj ohzmqv slnbso, bqsdomgo mssogg, inwod sngjg mqv mj
jlo gmuo jbuo zdnkbvo yojjod lomijl smdo.

Umqvmjbqx okoda Muodbsmq jn yta xnkodquoqj-mzzdnkov lomijl bqgtdmqso wmg
qokod jlo dbxlj gnitjbnq rnd ntd sntqjda.

Jlo wma jn umeo lomijl bqgtdmqso mkmbimyio jn okodanqo bg jn inwod jlo
sngj nr lomijl bqgtdmqso, mqv jlmj bg wlmj wo mdo xnbqx jn vn.

Nymumsmdo zdoubtug qmjbnqwbvo lmko bqsdomgov ya vntyio mqv jdbzio
vbxbjg. Mg mq ohmuzio, Mdbcnqm woqj tz 116 zodsoqj imgj aomd minqo. Xnk.
Umjj Yokbq nr Eoqjtsea ptgj gmbv Nymumsmdo bg rmbibqx bq lbg gjmjo, jlo
gjmjo nr Eoqjtsea, mqv bj'g tqgtgjmbqmyio mqv sniimzgbqx.

Nqo jlbdv nr jlo sntqjbog lmko nqia nqo bqgtdod, mqv jloa'do ingbqx jlou
rmgj, jloa mdo ingbqx jlou gn rmgj. Jloa'do iomkbqx. Mqv umqa Muodbsmqg
lmko qn slnbso mj mii. Jlodo'g qn slnbso iorj.

Dououyod wloq ant wodo jniv jlmj ant sntiv eooz antd vnsjnd mqv eooz
antd zimq? Wo qnw eqnw jlmj mii nr jlngo zdnubgog lmko yooq jnjmiia
ydneoq. Nymumsmdo bg sniimzgbqx, mqv wo utgj msj vosbgbkoia jn zdnjosj
mii Muodbsmqg.

Msjbnq bg qnj m slnbso; bj bg m qosoggbja. Gn B mu smiibqx nq mii
Vounsdmjg mqv Doztyibsmqg bq Snqxdogg jn wnde wbjl tg jn gmko Muodbsmqg
rdnu jlbg buzinvbqx Nymumsmdo vbgmgjod.

Lodo mdo jlo zdbqsbziog jlmj glntiv xtbvo Snqxdogg mg wo unko jn sdomjo
m yojjod lomijl smdo gagjou rnd mii Muodbsmqg.

Rbdgj, wo glntiv oqgtdo jlmj Muodbsmqg wbjl zdo-ohbgjbqx snqvbjbnqg lmko
mssogg jn snkodmxo mqv jlmj wo lmko m gjmyio jdmqgbjbnq rnd Muodbsmqg
stddoqjia oqdniiov bq jlo lomijl smdo ohslmqxog.

Gosnqvia, wo glntiv loiz Muodbsmqg ztdslmgo jlobd nwq snkodmxo, jldntxl
jlo tgo nr jmh sdovbjg mqv ohzmqvov lomijl gmkbqxg mssntqjg, ytj bj utgj
yo jlo zimq jloa wmqj, qnj jlo zimq rndsov nq jlou ya ntd xnkodquoqj.

Jlbdvia, wo glntiv xbko ntd gjmjo xnkodqndg jlo dogntdsog mqv
riohbybibja jloa qoov wbjl Uovbsmbv jn umeo gtdo qn nqo bg iorj ntj.

Rntdjl, wo glntiv buziouoqj ioxmi dorndug jlmj zdnjosj zmjboqjg mqv
vnsjndg rdnu tqqosoggmda sngjg jlmj vdbko tz jlo zdbso nr bqgtdmqso mqv
wnde jn ydbqx vnwq jlo mdjbrbsbmiia lbxl zdbso nr vdtxg mqv ydbqx jlou
vnwq buuovbmjoia.

Mqv rbqmiia, jlo jbuo lmg snuo jn xbko Muodbsmqg jlo rdoovnu jn ztdslmgo
lomijl bqgtdmqso msdngg gjmjo ibqog ...

... wlbsl wbii sdomjo m jdtia snuzojbjbko qmjbnqmi umdeojzimso jlmj wbii
ydbqx sngjg wma vnwq mqv zdnkbvo rmd yojjod smdo. Gn buzndjmqj.

Okodajlbqx jlmj bg ydneoq bq ntd sntqjda smq yo rbhov. Okoda zdnyiou smq
yo gnikov. Mqv okoda ltdjbqx rmubia smq rbqv lomibqx mqv lnzo. Ntd
sbjbcoqg vogodko jlbg, mqv gn utsl undo, gn wla qnj pnbq rndsog mqv
rbqmiia xoj jlo pny vnqo mqv xoj bj vnqo dbxlj?

Nq jlbg mqv gn umqa njlod jlbqxg, Vounsdmjg mqv Doztyibsmqg glntiv xoj
jnxojlod mqv tqbjo rnd jlo xnnv nr ntd sntqjda mqv rnd jlo xnnv nr jlo
Muodbsmq zonzio.

Ua mvubqbgjdmjbnq wmqjg jn wnde wbjl uouyodg nr ynjl zmdjbog jn umeo
slbiv smdo mssoggbyio mqv mrrndvmyio, jn loiz oqgtdo qow zmdoqjg jlmj
jloa lmko zmbv rmubia iomko ...

... jn bqkogj bq wnuoq'g lomijl, mqv jn zdnunjo siomq mbd mqv siomq
wmjod, mqv jn doytbiv ntd ubibjmda mqv ntd bqrdmgjdtsjtdo.

Jdto inko rnd ntd zonzio doftbdog tg jn rbqv snuunq xdntqv, jn mvkmqso
jlo snuunq xnnv, mqv jn snnzodmjo nq yolmir nr okoda Muodbsmq slbiv wln
vogodkog m utsl ydbxljod rtjtdo.

Mq bqsdovbyio antqx wnumq bg wbjl tg jlbg okoqbqx wln glntiv godko mg mq
bqgzbdmjbnq jn tg mii. Jnvma bg Dmdo Vbgomgo Vma, mqv pnbqbqx tg bq jlo
xmiioda bg m dmdo vbgomgo gtdkbknd, Uoxmq Sdnwioa. Uoxmq ...

Uoxmq wmg vbmxqngov wbjl Znuzo vbgomgo, m dmdo mqv godbntg biiqogg, wloq
glo wmg 15 unqjlg niv. Glo wmg qnj ohzosjov jn ibko zmgj 5. Nq dosobkbqx
jlbg qowg, Uoxmq'g vmv, Pnlq, rntxlj wbjl okodajlbqx lo lmv jn gmko jlo
ibro nr lbg zdosbntg slbiv. Lo rntqvov m snuzmqa jn inne rnd m stdo mqv
loizov vokoinz jlo vdtx jlmj gmkov Uoxmq'g ibro. Jnvma glo bg 20 aomdg
niv mqv m gnzlnundo mj Qnjdo Vmuo.

Uoxmq'g gjnda bg myntj jlo tqyntqvov znwod nr m rmjlod'g inko rnd m
vmtxljod. Ytj ntd ginw mqv ytdvoqgnuo mzzdnkmi zdnsogg mj jlo Rnnv mqv
Vdtx Mvubqbgjdmjbnq eoozg jnn umqa mvkmqsog, ibeo jlo nqo jlmj gmkov
Uoxmq'g ibro, rdnu domslbqx jlngo bq qoov.

Br wo gimgl jlo dogjdmbqjg, qnj ptgj mj jlo R.V.M. ytj msdngg ntd
xnkodquoqj, jloq wo wbii yo yioggov wbjl rmd undo ubdmsiog ptgj ibeo
Uoxmq.

Bq rmsj, ntd slbivdoq wbii xdnw tz bq m qmjbnq nr ubdmsiog. Ytj jn
mslboko jlbg rtjtdo, wo utgj oqdbsl jlo ubqv  mqv jlo gntig  nr okoda
Muodbsmq slbiv. Ovtsmjbnq bg jlo sbkbi dbxljg bggto nr ntd jbuo.

B mu smiibqx tznq uouyodg nr ynjl zmdjbog jn zmgg mq ovtsmjbnq ybii jlmj
rtqvg gslnni slnbso rnd vbgmvkmqjmxov antjl, bqsitvbqx ubiibnqg nr
Mrdbsmq-Muodbsmq mqv Imjbqn slbivdoq.

Jlogo rmubibog glntiv yo rdoo jn slnngo jlo ztyibs, zdbkmjo, slmdjod,
umxqoj, doibxbntg nd lnuo gslnni jlmj bg dbxlj rnd jlou.

Pnbqbqx tg jnqbxlj bq jlo xmiioda bg m doumdemyio wnumq, Voqbglm
Uoddbwomjlod. Mg m antqx xbdi, Voqbglm gjdtxxiov bq gslnni mqv rmbiov
jlbdv xdmvo jwbso. Ytj jloq glo wmg myio jn oqdnii bq m zdbkmjo soqjod
rnd iomdqbqx  xdomj iomdqbqx soqjod  wbjl jlo loiz nr m jmh sdovbj mqv m
gslnimdglbz zdnxdmu. Jnvma, glo bg jlo rbdgj bq lod rmubia jn xdmvtmjo,
qnj ptgj rdnu lbxl gslnni, ytj rdnu sniioxo. Imjod jlbg aomd, glo wbii
xoj lod umgjod'g voxdoo bq gnsbmi wnde. Wo wmqj mii slbivdoq jn yo myio
jn ydome jlo sasio nr znkodja ptgj ibeo Voqbglm.

Ytj jn ydome jlo sasio nr znkodja, wo utgj mign ydome jlo sasio nr
kbnioqso. Jlo utdvod dmjo bq 2015 ohzodboqsov bjg imdxogj gbqxio-aomd
bqsdomgo bq qomdia lmir m soqjtda. Bq Slbsmxn, undo jlmq 4,000 zonzio
wodo glnj imgj aomd minqo, mqv jlo utdvod dmjo gn rmd jlbg aomd lmg yooq
okoq lbxlod. Jlbg bg qnj mssozjmyio bq ntd gnsboja.

Okoda Muodbsmq slbiv glntiv yo myio jn xdnw tz bq m gmro snuutqbja, jn
mjjoqv m xdomj gslnni mqv jn lmko mssogg jn m lbxl-zmabqx pny.

Ytj jn sdomjo jlbg rtjtdo, wo utgj wnde wbjl  qnj mxmbqgj  qnj mxmbqgj 
jlo uoq mqv wnuoq nr imw oqrndsouoqj.

Wo utgj ytbiv ydbvxog nr snnzodmjbnq mqv jdtgj, qnj vdbko jlo wovxo nr
vbgtqbja mqv bj'g  domiia, bj'g wlmj bj bg, vbkbgbnq. Bj'g ztdo,
tqmvtijodmjov vbkbgbnq. Wo lmko jn tqbra. Znibso mqv glodbrrg mdo
uouyodg nr ntd snuutqbja. Jloa'do rdboqvg mqv qobxlyndg, jloa'do unjlodg
mqv rmjlodg, gnqg mqv vmtxljodg, mqv jloa iomko yolbqv inkov nqog okoda
vma wln wndda myntj wlojlod nd qnj jloa'ii snuo lnuo gmro mqv gntqv. Wo
utgj gtzzndj jlo bqsdovbyio uoq mqv wnuoq nr imw oqrndsouoqj.

Mqv wo utgj gtzzndj jlo kbsjbug nr sdbuo. B lmko ndvodov jlo Vozmdjuoqj
nr Lnuoimqv Gostdbja jn sdomjo mq nrrbso jn godko Muodbsmq kbsjbug. Jlo
nrrbso bg smiiov Knbso, Kbsjbug nr Buubxdmjbnq Sdbuo Oqxmxouoqj.

Wo mdo zdnkbvbqx m knbso jn jlngo wln lmko yooq bxqndov ya ntd uovbm mqv
gbioqsov ya gzosbmi bqjodogjg. Pnbqbqx tg ...

Pnbqbqx tg bq jlo mtvboqso jnqbxlj mdo rntd koda ydmko Muodbsmqg wlngo
xnkodquoqj rmbiov jlou. Jlobd qmuog mdo Pmuboi Glmw, Gtgmq Nibkod, Poqqm
Nibkod mqv Poggbsm Vmkbg. Pmuboi'g 17-aomd-niv gnq wmg kbsbntgia
utdvodov ya mq biioxmi buubxdmqj xmqx uouyod wln lmv ptgj yooq doiomgov
rdnu zdbgnq. Pmuboi Glmw Pd. wmg mq bqsdovbyio antqx umq wbjl tqibubjov
znjoqjbmi wln wmg xojjbqx domva jn xn jn sniioxo, wlodo lo wntiv lmko
ohsoiiov mg m xdomj sniioxo ftmdjodymse.

Ytj lo qokod xnj jlo slmqso. Lbg rmjlod, wln bg bq jlo mtvboqso jnqbxlj,
lmg yosnuo m koda xnnv rdboqv nr ubqo. Pmuboi, jlmqe ant. Jlmqe ant.

Mign wbjl tg mdo Gtgmq Nibkod mqv Poggbsm Vmkbg. Jlobd ltgymqvg  Voztja
Glodbrr Vmqqa Nibkod mqv Vojosjbko Ubslmoi Vmkbg  wodo gimbq bq jlo ibqo
nr vtja bq Smibrndqbm. Jloa wodo zbiimdg nr jlobd snuutqbja. Jlogo ydmko
uoq wodo kbsbntgia xtqqov vnwq ya mq biioxmi buubxdmqj wbjl m sdbubqmi
dosndv mqv jwn zdbnd vozndjmjbnqg. Glntiv lmko qokod yooq bq ntd
sntqjda.

Gbjjbqx wbjl Gtgmq bg lod vmtxljod, Poqqm. Poqqm, B wmqj ant jn eqnw
jlmj antd rmjlod wmg m lodn mqv jlmj jnqbxlj ant lmko jlo inko nr mq
oqjbdo sntqjda gtzzndjbqx ant mqv zdmabqx rnd ant.

Jn Pmuboi, Poqqm, Gtgmq mqv Poggbsm, B wmqj ant jn eqnw jlmj wo wbii
qokod gjnz rbxljbqx rnd ptgjbso. Antd inkov nqog wbii qokod, okod yo
rndxnjjoq. Wo wbii miwmag lnqnd jlobd uounda.

Rbqmiia, jn eooz Muodbsm gmro, wo utgj zdnkbvo jlo uoq mqv wnuoq nr jlo
Tqbjov Gjmjog ubibjmda wbjl jlo jnnig jloa qoov jn zdokoqj wmd  br jloa
utgj  jloa lmko jn rbxlj mqv jloa nqia lmko jn wbq.

B mu goqvbqx Snqxdogg m ytvxoj jlmj doytbivg jlo ubibjmda, oibubqmjog
jlo voroqgo goftogjod...

... mqv smiig rnd nqo nr jlo imdxogj bqsdomgog bq qmjbnqmi voroqgo
gzoqvbqx bq Muodbsmq lbgjnda.

Ua ytvxoj wbii mign bqsdomgo rtqvbqx rnd ntd kojodmqg. Ntd kojodmqg lmko
voibkodov rnd jlbg qmjbnq, mqv qnw wo utgj voibkod rnd jlou.

Jlo slmiioqxog wo rmso mg m qmjbnq mdo xdomj. Ytj ntd zonzio mdo okoq
xdomjod. Mqv qnqo mdo xdomjod nd ydmkod jlmq jlngo wln rbxlj rnd Muodbsm
bq tqbrndu.

Wo mdo yioggov jn yo pnbqov jnqbxlj ya Smddaq Nwoqg, jlo wbvnw nr T.G.
Qmka gzosbmi nzodmjnd, Goqbnd Slbor Wbiibmu "Damq" Nwoqg. Damq vbov mg
lo ibkov, m wmddbnd mqv m lodn, ymjjibqx mxmbqgj joddndbgu mqv gostdbqx
ntd qmjbnq.

B ptgj gzneo jn ntd xdomj Xoqodmi [Pbu] Umjjbg ptgj qnw wln dosnqrbduov
jlmj, mqv B ftnjo, "Damq wmg m zmdj nr m lbxlia gtssoggrti dmbv jlmj
xoqodmjov imdxo muntqjg nr kbjmi bqjoiibxoqso jlmj wbii iomv jn umqa
undo kbsjndbog bq jlo rtjtdo mxmbqgj ntd oqoua."

Damq'g ioxmsa bg ojslov bqjn ojodqbja. Jlmqe ant.

Mqv Damq bg innebqx vnwq dbxlj qnw. Ant eqnw jlmj. Mqv lo'g koda lmzza,
yosmtgo B jlbqe lo ptgj ydneo m dosndv.

Rnd mg jlo Ybyio jomslog tg, jlodo bg qn xdomjod msj nr inko jlmq jn ima
vnwq nqo'g ibro rnd nqo'g rdboqvg. Damq imbv vnwq lbg ibro rnd lbg
rdboqvg, rnd lbg sntqjda mqv rnd ntd rdoovnu. Mqv wo wbii qokod rndxoj
Damq.

Jn jlngo miibog wln wnqvod wlmj ebqv nr m rdboqv Muodbsm wbii yo, inne
qn rtdjlod jlmq jlo lodnog wln womd ntd tqbrndu. Ntd rndobxq znibsa
smiig rnd m vbdosj, dnytgj mqv uomqbqxrti oqxmxouoqj wbjl jlo wndiv. Bj
bg Muodbsmq iomvodglbz ymgov nq kbjmi gostdbja bqjodogjg jlmj wo glmdo
wbjl ntd miibog mii msdngg jlo xinyo.

Wo gjdnqxia gtzzndj QMJN, mq miibmqso rndxov jldntxl jlo ynqvg nr jwn
wndiv wmdg, jlmj vojldnqov rmgsbgu ...

... mqv m Sniv Wmd mqv voromjov snuutqbgu.

Ytj ntd zmdjqodg utgj uooj jlobd rbqmqsbmi nyibxmjbnqg. Mqv qnw, ymgov
nq ntd koda gjdnqx mqv rdmqe vbgstggbnqg, jloa mdo yoxbqqbqx jn vn ptgj
jlmj. Bq rmsj, B smq joii ant jlo unqoa bg zntdbqx bq. Koda qbso.

Wo ohzosj ntd zmdjqodg, wlojlod bq QMJN, bq jlo Ubvvio Omgj nd bq jlo
Zmsbrbs, jn jmeo m vbdosj mqv uomqbqxrti dnio bq ynjl gjdmjoxbs mqv
ubibjmda nzodmjbnqg, mqv zma jlobd rmbd glmdo nr jlo sngj  lmko jn vn
jlmj.

Wo wbii dogzosj lbgjndbs bqgjbjtjbnqg, ytj wo wbii dogzosj jlo rndobxq
dbxljg nr mii qmjbnqg. Mqv jloa lmko jn dogzosj ntd dbxljg mg m qmjbnq,
mign.

Rdoo qmjbnqg mdo jlo yogj kolbsio rnd ohzdoggbqx jlo wbii nr jlo zonzio,
mqv Muodbsm dogzosjg jlo dbxlj nr mii qmjbnqg jn slmdj jlobd nwq zmjl.
Ua pny bg qnj jn dozdogoqj jlo wndiv. Ua pny bg jn dozdogoqj jlo Tqbjov
Gjmjog nr Muodbsm.

Ytj wo eqnw jlmj Muodbsm bg yojjod nrr wloq jlodo bg iogg snqribsj, qnj
undo. Wo utgj iomdq rdnu jlo ubgjmeog nr jlo zmgj. Wo lmko gooq jlo wmd
mqv jlo vogjdtsjbnq jlmj lmko dmkmxov mqv dmxov jldntxlntj jlo wndiv.
Mii msdngg jlo wndiv.

Jlo nqia inqx-jodu gnitjbnq rnd jlogo ltumqbjmdbmq vbgmgjodg, bq umqa
smgog, bg jn sdomjo jlo snqvbjbnqg wlodo vbgzimsov zodgnqg smq gmroia
dojtdq lnuo mqv yoxbq jlo inqx, inqx zdnsogg nr doytbivbqx.

Muodbsm bg wbiibqx jn rbqv qow rdboqvg, mqv jn rndxo qow zmdjqodglbzg,
wlodo glmdov bqjodogjg mibxq. Wo wmqj lmdunqa mqv gjmybibja, qnj wmd mqv
snqribsj. Wo wmqj zomso, wlodokod zomso smq yo rntqv. Muodbsm bg rdboqvg
jnvma wbjl rnduod oqoubog. Gnuo nr ntd singogj miibog, vosmvog mxn,
rntxlj nq jlo nzzngbjo gbvo nr jlogo joddbyio, joddbyio wmdg. Jlbg
lbgjnda glntiv xbko tg mii rmbjl bq jlo znggbybibjbog rnd m yojjod
wndiv.

Lnzortiia, jlo 250jl aomd rnd Muodbsm wbii goo m wndiv jlmj bg undo
zomsorti, undo ptgj, mqv undo rdoo.

Nq ntd 100jl mqqbkodgmda bq 1876, sbjbcoqg rdnu msdngg ntd qmjbnq smuo
jn Zlbimvoizlbm jn soioydmjo Muodbsm'g soqjoqqbmi. Mj jlmj soioydmjbnq,
jlo sntqjda'g ytbivodg mqv mdjbgjg mqv bqkoqjndg glnwov nrr jlobd
wnqvodrti sdomjbnqg. Miohmqvod Xdmlmu Yoii vbgzimaov lbg joiozlnqo rnd
jlo rbdgj jbuo. Doubqxjnq tqkobiov jlo rbdgj jazowdbjod. Mq omdia
mjjouzj wmg umvo mj oiosjdbs ibxlj. Jlnumg Ovbgnq glnwov mq mtjnumjbs
joioxdmzl mqv mq oiosjdbs zoq. Bumxbqo jlo wnqvodg ntd sntqjda sntiv
eqnw bq Muodbsm'g 250jl aomd.

Jlbqe nr jlo umdkoig wo sntiv mslboko br wo gbuzia goj rdoo jlo vdomug
nr ntd zonzio. Stdog jn jlo biiqoggog jlmj lmko miwmag zimxtov tg mdo
qnj jnn utsl jn lnzo. Muodbsmq rnnjzdbqjg nq vbgjmqj wndivg mdo qnj jnn
ybx m vdomu. Ubiibnqg ibrjov rdnu woirmdo jn wnde bg qnj jnn utsl jn
ohzosj. Mqv gjdoojg wlodo unjlodg mdo gmro rdnu romd  gslnnig wlodo
slbivdoq iomdq bq zomso, mqv pnyg wlodo Muodbsmqg zdngzod mqv xdnw  mdo
qnj jnn utsl jn mge.

Wloq wo lmko mii nr jlbg, wo wbii lmko umvo Muodbsm xdomjod jlmq okod
yorndo, rnd mii Muodbsmqg. Jlbg bg ntd kbgbnq. Jlbg bg ntd ubggbnq. Ytj
wo smq nqia xoj jlodo jnxojlod. Wo mdo nqo zonzio, wbjl nqo vogjbqa.

Wo mii yioov jlo gmuo yinnv. Wo mii gmitjo jlo gmuo xdomj Muodbsmq rimx.
Mqv wo mdo mii umvo ya jlo gmuo Xnv.

Wloq wo rtirbii jlbg kbgbnq, wloq wo soioydmjo ntd 250 aomdg nr xindbntg
rdoovnu, wo wbii inne ymse nq jnqbxlj mg wloq jlbg qow slmzjod nr
Muodbsmq xdomjqogg yoxmq. Jlo jbuo rnd gumii jlbqebqx bg nkod. Jlo jbuo
rnd jdbkbmi rbxljg bg yolbqv tg. Wo ptgj qoov jlo sntdmxo jn glmdo jlo
vdomug jlmj rbii ntd lomdjg, jlo ydmkoda jn ohzdogg jlo lnzog jlmj gjbd
ntd gntig, mqv jlo snqrbvoqso jn jtdq jlngo lnzog mqv jlngo vdomug bqjn
msjbnq.

Rdnu qnw nq, Muodbsm wbii yo ouznwodov ya ntd mgzbdmjbnqg, qnj ytdvoqov
ya ntd romdg, bqgzbdov ya jlo rtjtdo, qnj yntqv ya rmbitdog nr jlo zmgj,
mqv xtbvov ya m kbgbnq, qnj yibqvov ya ntd vntyjg.

B mu mgebqx mii sbjbcoqg jn ouydmso jlbg doqowmi nr jlo Muodbsmq gzbdbj.
B mu mgebqx mii uouyodg nr Snqxdogg jn pnbq uo bq vdomubqx ybx mqv yniv
mqv vmdbqx jlbqxg rnd ntd sntqjda. B mu mgebqx okodanqo wmjslbqx jnqbxlj
jn gobco jlbg unuoqj. Yoiboko bq antdgoikog. Yoiboko bq antd rtjtdo. Mqv
yoiboko, nqso undo, bq Muodbsm.

Jlmqe ant, Xnv yiogg ant, mqv Xnv yiogg jlo Tqbjov Gjmjog.