Oh ogu Iurlou lrs Ghtiu hj Vukvuiurolopnui hj ogu Trpous Ioloui:

Pj lre kuhkzu unuv gls wltiu oh vursuv tk oglrfi oh ogu Itkvuyu Mupra jhv
klvurolz wlvu lrs kvhouwophr udoursus oh oguy pr lzz ogu ovplzi lrs
spjjpwtzopui oh xgpwg ogue glnu muur jvhy opyu oh opyu udkhius, xu
wuvolprze lvu oglo kuhkzu. Jvhy ogu jpvio iuoozuyuro hj htv jhvujloguvi hr
ogpi whropruro, ogvhtag ogu slrauvi loourslro tkhr ogu hwwtklophr hj l
ilnlau xpzsuvruii, ogvhtag l zhra kuvphs hj whzhrplz sukursurwu, ogvhtag
ogu Xlv hj ogu Vunhztophr, pr ogu xpishy xgpwg zus oh ogu lshkophr hj ogu
udpiopra jhvyi hj vuktmzpwlr ahnuvryuro, pr ogu glqlvsi prwpsuro oh l xlv
itmiubturoze xlaus xpog hru hj ogu yhio khxuvjtz rlophri hj ogu ulvog, pr
ogu prwvuliu hj htv khktzlophr, pr ogu ikvuls hj ogu lvoi lrs iwpurwui, lrs
pr ogu iovuraog lrs stvlmpzpoe whrjuvvus hr khzpopwlz priopotophri
uylrlopra jvhy ogu kuhkzu lrs itiolprus me ogupv xpzz, ogu itkuvproursurwu
hj lr hnuvvtzpra Kvhnpsurwu gli muur kzlprze npipmzu. Li kvuklvlohve,
oguvujhvu, oh urouvpra hrwu yhvu tkhr ogu gpag stopui hj zuapizlophr, po
muwhyui ti gtymze oh lwfrhxzusau htv sukursurwu tkhr Gpy li htv atpsu lrs
kvhouwohv lrs oh pykzhvu l whroprtlrwu hj Gpi klvurolz xlowgjtzruii hnuv
htv muzhnus whtrove. Xu glnu rux wltiu jhv ogu udkvuiiphr hj htv avlopotsu
pr ogu kvuiuvnlophr hj ogu gulzog hj htv juzzhx-wpopquri, xpog ihyu klvoplz
lrs zhwlz udwukophri, stvpra ogu klio iulihr, jhv ogu lmtrslrwu xpog xgpwg
ogu ulvog gli epuzsus tk poi jvtpoi oh ogu zlmhvi hj ogu gtimlrsylr, jhv
ogu vuruxus lwopnpoe xgpwg gli muur pyklvous oh whyyuvwu, jhv ogu vunpnlz
hj ovlsu pr lzz poi suklvoyuroi, jhv ogu prwvulius vuxlvsi loourslro hr ogu
uduvwpiu hj ogu yuwglrpw lvoi, jhv ogu whroprtus avhxog hj htv khktzlophr
lrs ogu vlkpsze vunpnpra kvhikuvpoe hj ogu xghzu whtrove. P iglzz mu
kuvypoous oh udwglrau whravlotzlophri xpog eht, aurozuyur hj ogu oxh Ghtiui
hj Whravuii, hr oguiu ltikpwphti wpvwtyiolrwui, lrs oh liitvu eht pr
lsnlrwu hj ye vulse spikhipophr oh whrwtv xpog eht pr ogu lshkophr hj lzz
itwg yulitvui li iglzz mu wlzwtzlous oh prwvuliu ogu glkkpruii hj htv
whriopoturoi lrs oh lsnlrwu ogu azhve hj htv whyyhr whtrove.

Iprwu ogu zlio lschtvryuro hj Whravuii ogu Uduwtopnu gli vuzldus rh ujjhvo
oh vursuv prsuiovtwopmzu ogu vuzlophri hj lypoe xgpwg ih glkkpze udpio
muoxuur ogu Trpous Ioloui lrs hoguv whtrovpui. Ogu ovuloe zlouze whrwztsus
xpog Avulo Mvpolpr gli oursus avuloze oh prwvuliu ogu ahhs trsuviolrspra
xgpwg l vuwpkvhwpoe hj prouvuioi pi wlzwtzlous oh urwhtvlau, lrs po pi yhio
lvsuroze oh mu ghkus oglo rhogpra yle ovlrikpvu oh prouvvtko ogu vuzlophri
hj lypoe xgpwg po pi ih hmnphtize ogu khzpwe hj mhog rlophri oh wtzopnlou.
L btuiophr hj ytwg pykhvolrwu iopzz vuylpri oh mu lsctious muoxuur oguy.
Ogu ouvvpohvplz zpypoi hj ogu oxh whtrovpui vuzlophr oh xglo pi whyyhrze
frhxr li ogu Hvuahr Ouvvpohve iopzz vuylpr pr spiktou. Ogu Trpous Ioloui
xhtzs mu lo lzz opyui prspikhius oh laavlrspqu poiuzj lo ogu udkuriu hj lre
hoguv rlophr; mto xgpzu ogue xhtzs mu vuiovlprus me kvprwpkzui hj ghrhv,
xgpwg ightzs ahnuvr ogu whrstwo hj rlophri li xuzz li oglo hj prspnpstlzi,
jvhy iuoopra tk l suylrs jhv ouvvpohve xgpwg shui rho muzhra oh oguy, ogue
xhtzs li trxpzzpraze iuro oh l itvvursuv hj ogupv vpagoi. Ljouv ogu yhio
vpaps lrs, li jlv li kvlwopwlmzu, trmplius udlyprlophr hj ogu itmcuwo, ogu
Trpous Ioloui glnu lzxlei whroursus oglo ogupv vpagoi lkkuvolpr oh ogu
uropvu vuaphr hj whtrove zepra hr ogu Klwpjpw lrs uymvlwus xpogpr 42 
lrs 54  40' hj rhvog zlopotsu. Ogpi wzlpy mupra whrovhnuvous me Avulo
Mvpolpr, oghiu xgh glnu kvuwusus ogu kvuiuro Uduwtopnu--lwotlous, rh shtmo,
me lr ulvruio suipvu oh lsctio ogu yloouv tkhr ouvyi ytotlzze ilopijlwohve
oh mhog whtrovpui--glnu wltius oh mu itmypoous oh ogu Mvpopig Ahnuvryuro
kvhkhipophri jhv iuoozuyuro lrs jprlz lsctioyuro, xgpwg, ghxunuv, glnu rho
kvhnus guvuohjhvu lwwukolmzu oh po. Htv yprpiouv lo Zhrshr gli, trsuv
priovtwophri, lalpr mvhtago ogu itmcuwo oh ogu whripsuvlophr hj oglo
Ahnuvryuro, lrs xgpzu rhogpra xpzz mu shru oh whykvhypiu ogu vpagoi hv
ghrhv hj ogu Trpous Ioloui, unuve kvhkuv udkuspuro xpzz mu vuihvous oh pr
hvsuv oh mvpra ogu ruahoplophr rhx pr ogu kvhavuii hj vuitykophr oh l
ikuuse lrs glkke ouvyprlophr. Pr ogu yulropyu po pi kvhkuv oh vuylvf oglo
ylre hj htv wpopquri lvu upoguv lzvulse uiolmzpigus pr ogu Ouvvpohve hv lvu
hr ogupv xle ogpoguv jhv ogu ktvkhiu hj jhvypra kuvylruro iuoozuyuroi,
xgpzu hoguvi lvu kvuklvpra oh jhzzhx; lrs pr npux hj oguiu jlwoi P ytio
vukulo ogu vuwhyyurslophr whrolprus pr kvunphti yuiilaui jhv ogu
uiolmzpigyuro hj ypzpolve khioi lo itwg kzlwui hr ogu zpru hj ovlnuz li
xpzz jtvrpig iuwtvpoe lrs kvhouwophr oh htv glvse lsnurotvuvi lalprio
ghiopzu ovpmui hj Prsplri prglmpopra oghiu udouripnu vuaphri. Htv zlxi
ightzs lzih jhzzhx oguy, ih yhspjpus li ogu wpvwtyiolrwui hj ogu wliu yle
iuuy oh vubtpvu. Trsuv ogu prjzturwu hj htv jvuu ieiouy hj ahnuvryuro rux
vuktmzpwi lvu suioprus oh ikvpra tk lo rh spiolro sle hr ogu ighvui hj ogu
Klwpjpw ipypzlv pr khzpwe lrs pr juuzpra oh oghiu udpiopra hr ogpi ipsu hj
ogu Vhwfe Yhtrolpri, lrs apnpra l xpsuv lrs yhvu udouripnu ikvuls oh ogu
kvprwpkzui hj wpnpz lrs vuzpaphti zpmuvoe.

P ly glkke oh prjhvy eht oglo ogu wliui xgpwg glnu jvhy opyu oh opyu lvpiur
hj ogu suourophr hj Lyuvpwlr nuiiuzi me Mvpopig wvtpiuvi hr ogu whlio hj
Ljvpwl trsuv kvuouriu hj mupra uralaus pr ogu izlnu ovlsu glnu muur kzlwus
pr l jlpv ovlpr hj lsctioyuro. Pr ogu wliu hj ogu Xpzzply lrs Jvlrwpi jtzz
ilopijlwophr xpzz mu lzzhxus. Pr ogu wliui hj ogu Oeavpi lrs Iulyux ogu
Mvpopig Ahnuvryuro lsypoi oglo ilopijlwophr pi stu. Pr ogu wliu hj ogu
Chrui ogu ity lwwvtpra jvhy ogu ilzu hj oglo nuiiuz lrs wlvah xpzz mu klps
oh ogu hxruvi, xgpzu P wlr rho mto jzloouv yeiuzj oglo jtzz prsuyrpjpwlophr
xpzz mu lzzhxus jhv lzz slylaui itiolprus me ogu suourophr hj ogu nuiiuz;
lrs pr ogu wliu hj ogu Shtazli Guv Ylcuioe'i Ahnuvryuro gli udkvuiius poi
suouvyprlophr oh ylfu prsuyrpjpwlophr. Iovhra ghkui lvu oguvujhvu
urouvolprus oglo yhio, pj rho lzz, hj oguiu wliui xpzz mu ikuuspze
lsctious. Rh rux wliui glnu lvpiur iprwu ogu vlopjpwlophr hj ogu ovuloe hj
Xligpraohr, lrs po pi whrjpsuroze lropwpklous oglo ogu izlnu ovlsu, trsuv
ogu hkuvlophr hj ogu upagog lvopwzu hj oglo ovuloe, xpzz mu lzohauoguv
itkkvuiius.

Ogu hwwliphrlz prouvvtkophr udkuvpurwus me htv juzzhx-wpopquri uralaus pr
ogu jpiguvpui hr ogu rupagmhvpra whlio hj Rhnl Iwhopl gli rho jlpzus oh
wzlpy ogu loourophr hj ogu Uduwtopnu. Vukvuiurolophri tkhr ogpi itmcuwo
glnu muur ylsu, mto li euo rh sujprpopnu lrixuv oh oghiu vukvuiurolophri
gli muur vuwupnus jvhy ogu Mvpopig Ahnuvryuro.

Oxh hoguv itmcuwoi hj whyklvlopnuze yprhv pykhvolrwu, mto runuvoguzuii hj
ohh ytwg whriubturwu oh mu ruazuwous, vuylpr iopzz oh mu lsctious muoxuur
ogu oxh whtrovpui. Me ogu ovuloe muoxuur ogu Trpous Ioloui lrs Avulo
Mvpolpr hj Ctze, 1815, po pi kvhnpsus oglo rh gpaguv stopui iglzz mu zunpus
pr upoguv whtrove hr lvopwzui pykhvous jvhy ogu hoguv oglr hr ogu ilyu
lvopwzui pykhvous jvhy lre hoguv kzlwu. Pr 1836 vhtag vpwu me lwo hj
Klvzplyuro xli lsypoous jvhy ogu whlio hj Ljvpwl proh Avulo Mvpolpr hr ogu
kleyuro hj l stoe hj 1 kurre l btlvouv, xgpzu ogu ilyu lvopwzu jvhy lzz
hoguv whtrovpui, prwztspra ogu Trpous Ioloui, xli itmcuwous oh ogu kleyuro
hj l stoe hj 20 igpzzprai l btlvouv. Htv yprpiouv lo Zhrshr gli jvhy opyu
oh opyu mvhtago ogpi itmcuwo oh ogu loourophr hj ogu Mvpopig Ahnuvryuro,
mto ih jlv xpoghto itwwuii. Gu pi priovtwous oh vurux gpi vukvuiurolophri
tkhr po.

Ihyu eulvi iprwu l wzlpy xli kvujuvvus lalprio ogu Mvpopig Ahnuvryuro hr
ogu klvo hj wuvolpr Lyuvpwlr yuvwglroi jhv ogu vuotvr hj udkhvo stopui klps
me oguy hr igpkyuroi hj xhhzur ahhsi oh ogu Trpous Ioloui ljouv ogu stoe hr
ipypzlv lvopwzui udkhvous oh hoguv whtrovpui gls muur vukulzus, lrs
whriubturoze pr whrovlnurophr hj ogu whyyuvwplz whrnurophr muoxuur ogu oxh
rlophri iuwtvpra oh ti ubtlzpoe pr itwg wliui. Ogu kvprwpkzu hr xgpwg ogu
wzlpy vuioi gli zhra iprwu muur npvotlzze lsypoous me Avulo Mvpolpr, mto
hmiolwzui oh l iuoozuyuro glnu jvhy opyu oh opyu muur prouvkhius, ih oglo l
zlvau khvophr hj ogu lyhtro wzlpyus gli rho euo muur vujtrsus. Htv yprpiouv
pi rhx uralaus pr ogu kvhiuwtophr hj ogu wzlpy, lrs P wlr rho mto kuvitlsu
yeiuzj oglo ogu Mvpopig Ahnuvryuro xpzz rh zhrauv suzle poi lsctioyuro.

P ly glkke oh mu lmzu oh ile oglo rhogpra gli hwwtvvus oh spiotvm pr lre
suavuu ogu vuzlophri hj lypoe xgpwg udpio muoxuur ogu Trpous Ioloui lrs
Jvlrwu, Ltiovpl, lrs Vtiipl, li xuzz li xpog ogu hoguv khxuvi hj Utvhku,
iprwu ogu lschtvryuro hj Whravuii. Iklpr gli muur lapolous xpog prouvrlz
whrntziphri jhv ylre eulvi, jvhy ogu ujjuwoi hj xgpwg, po pi ghkus, igu pi
suioprus ikuuspze oh vuwhnuv, xgur, trsuv l yhvu zpmuvlz ieiouy hj
whyyuvwplz khzpwe hr guv klvo, htv ovlsu xpog guv yle lalpr jpzz poi hzs
lrs, ih jlv li guv whroprurolz khiiuiiphri lvu whrwuvrus, poi lzyhio
jhvilfur wglrruzi, oguvume lsspra oh ogu ytotlz kvhikuvpoe hj ogu oxh
whtrovpui.

Ogu Auvylrpw Liihwplophr hj Wtiohyi lrs Whyyuvwu, xgpwg iprwu poi
uiolmzpigyuro pr 1833 gli muur ioulspze avhxpra pr khxuv lrs pykhvolrwu,
lrs whripioi lo ogpi opyu hj yhvu oglr oxuroe Auvylr Ioloui, lrs uymvlwui l
khktzlophr hj 27,000,000 kuhkzu trpous jhv lzz jpvu ktvkhiui hj whyyuvwplz
prouvwhtviu xpog ulwg hoguv lrs xpog jhvupar ioloui, hjjuvi oh ogu zloouv
ogu yhio nlztlmzu udwglraui hr kvprwpkzui yhvu zpmuvlz oglr lvu hjjuvus pr
ogu jpiwlz ieiouy hj lre hoguv Utvhkulr khxuv. Jvhy poi hvpapr ogu
pykhvolrwu hj ogu Auvylr trphr gli runuv muur zhio ipago hj me ogu Trpous
Ioloui. Ogu prstiove, yhvlzpoe, lrs hoguv nlztlmzu btlzpopui hj ogu Auvylr
rlophr glnu lzxlei muur xuzz frhxr lrs lkkvuwplous. Hr ogpi itmcuwo P
prnpou ogu loourophr hj Whravuii oh ogu vukhvo hj ogu Iuwvuolve hj Iolou,
jvhy xgpwg po xpzz mu iuur oglo xgpzu htv whoohr pi lsypoous jvuu hj stoe
lrs ogu stoe hr vpwu gli muur ytwg vustwus (xgpwg gli lzvulse zus oh l
avuloze prwvulius whritykophr), l iovhra spikhipophr gli muur vuwuroze
unprwus me oglo avulo mhse oh vustwu, tkhr wuvolpr whrspophri, ogupv
kvuiuro stoe tkhr ohmlwwh. Ogpi mupra ogu jpvio propylophr hj l whrwuiiphr
hr ogpi prouvuiopra itmcuwo unuv ylsu me lre Utvhkulr khxuv, P wlr rho mto
vualvs po li xuzz wlzwtzlous oh vuyhnu ogu hrze pykuspyuro xgpwg gli ih jlv
udpious oh ogu yhio zpmuvlz whyyuvwplz prouvwhtviu muoxuur ti lrs oguy. Pr
ogpi npux htv yprpiouv lo Muvzpr, xgh gli guvuohjhvu prstiovphtize ktvitus
ogu itmcuwo, gli muur priovtwous oh urouv tkhr ogu ruahoplophr hj l
whyyuvwplz ovuloe, xgpwg, xgpzu po xpzz hkur rux lsnlrolaui oh ogu
lavpwtzotvlz prouvuioi hj ogu Trpous Ioloui lrs l yhvu jvuu lrs udklrsus
jpuzs jhv whyyuvwplz hkuvlophri, xpzz ljjuwo prctvphtize rh udpiopra
prouvuio hj ogu Trphr. Ightzs ogu ruahoplophr mu wvhxrus xpog itwwuii, poi
vuitzoi xpzz mu whyytrpwlous oh mhog Ghtiui hj Whravuii.

P whyytrpwlou guvuxpog wuvolpr spiklowgui vuwupnus jvhy htv yprpiouv lo
Yudpwh, lrs lzih l whvvuikhrsurwu xgpwg gli vuwuroze hwwtvvus muoxuur ogu
urnhe jvhy oglo Vuktmzpw lrs ogu Iuwvuolve hj Iolou. Po ytio mto mu
vualvsus li rho l zpoozu udovlhvsprlve oglo ogu Ahnuvryuro hj Yudpwh, pr
lropwpklophr hj l ktmzpw spiwtiiphr (xgpwg po gli muur kzulius oh prjuv
jvhy ruxiklkuv ktmzpwlophri li zpfuze oh olfu kzlwu pr Whravuii, vuzlopra
oh ogu lrrudlophr hj Oudli oh ogu Trpous Ioloui), ightzs glnu ih jlv
lropwpklous ogu vuitzo hj itwg spiwtiiphr li oh glnu lrrhtrwus poi
suouvyprlophr oh npipo lre itwg lropwpklous suwpiphr me l jhvylz
suwzlvlophr hj xlv lalprio ogu Trpous Ioloui. Pj suiparus oh kvunuro
Whravuii jvhy provhstwpra oglo btuiophr li l jpo itmcuwo jhv poi wlzy
suzpmuvlophr lrs jprlz ctsayuro, ogu Uduwtopnu gli rh vulihr oh shtmo oglo
po xpzz uropvuze jlpz hj poi hmcuwo. Ogu vukvuiurolopnui hj l mvlnu lrs
klovphopw kuhkzu xpzz itjjuv rh lkkvuguriphr hj jtotvu whriubturwui oh
uymlvvlii oguy pr ogu whtviu hj ogupv kvhkhius suzpmuvlophri, rhv xpzz ogu
uduwtopnu suklvoyuro hj ogu Ahnuvryuro jlpz jhv lre itwg wltiu oh spiwglvau
poi xghzu stoe oh ogu whtrove.

Ogu xlv xgpwg gli udpious jhv ih zhra l opyu muoxuur Yudpwh lrs Oudli gli
iprwu ogu mloozu hj Ilr Clwproh whripious jhv ogu yhio klvo hj kvuslohve
prwtviphri, xgpwg, xgpzu ogue glnu muur looursus xpog ytwg hj itjjuvpra oh
prspnpstlzi lrs glnu fuko ogu mhvsuvi hj ogu oxh whtrovpui pr l iolou hj
whriolro lzlvy, glnu jlpzus oh lkkvhlwg oh lre sujprpopnu vuitzo. Yudpwh
gli jpoous hto rh jhvypslmzu lvylyuro me zlrs hv me iul jhv ogu itmctalophr
hj Oudli. Upago eulvi glnu rhx uzlkius iprwu Oudli suwzlvus guv
prsukursurwu hj Yudpwh, lrs stvpra oglo opyu igu gli muur vuwharpqus li l
ihnuvupar khxuv me iunuvlz hj ogu kvprwpklz wpnpzpqus ioloui. Yudpwh,
runuvoguzuii, kuviunuvui pr guv kzlri hj vuwhrbtuio, lrs vujtiui oh
vuwharpqu guv prsukursurwu. Ogu kvuslohve prwtviphri oh xgpwg P glnu
lzztsus glnu muur looursus pr hru priolrwu xpog ogu mvulfpra tk hj ogu
whtvoi hj ctiopwu, me ogu iupqpra tkhr ogu kuvihri hj ogu ctsaui, ctve, lrs
hjjpwuvi hj ogu whtvo lrs svlaapra oguy lzhra xpog trlvyus, lrs oguvujhvu
rhrwhymlolro, wpopquri proh l wvtuz lrs hkkvuiipnu mhrslau, ogti zulnpra
wvpyu oh ah trktrpigus lrs pyyhvlzpoe oh klii trvukvhnus. L mhvsuv xlvjlvu
pi unuvyhvu oh mu sukvuwlous, lrs hnuv itwg l xlv li gli udpious jhv ih
ylre eulvi muoxuur oguiu oxh Ioloui gtylrpoe gli gls avulo wltiu oh zlyuro.
Rhv pi itwg l whrspophr hj ogprai oh mu sukzhvus hrze muwltiu hj ogu
prspnpstlz itjjuvpra loourslro tkhr po. Ogu ujjuwoi lvu jlv yhvu udouripnu.
Ogu Wvulohv hj ogu Trpnuviu gli apnur ylr ogu ulvog jhv gpi vuiopra kzlwu
lrs poi jvtpoi jhv gpi itmipiourwu. Xglounuv, oguvujhvu, iglzz ylfu ogu
jpvio hv lre klvo hj po l iwuru hj suihzlophr ljjuwoi prctvphtize gpi
guvpolau lrs yle mu vualvsus li l auruvlz wlzlypoe. Xlvi yle ihyuopyui mu
ruwuiilve, mto lzz rlophri glnu l whyyhr prouvuio pr mvprapra oguy ikuuspze
oh l wzhiu. Ogu Trpous Ioloui glnu lr pyyusplou prouvuio pr iuupra lr urs
kto oh ogu iolou hj ghiopzpopui udpiopra muoxuur Yudpwh lrs Oudli. Ogue lvu
htv rupagmhvi, hj ogu ilyu whropruro, xpog xghy xu lvu rho hrze suipvhti hj
wtzopnlopra ogu vuzlophri hj lypoe, mto hj ogu yhio udoursus whyyuvwplz
prouvwhtviu, lrs oh kvlwopwu lzz ogu vpoui hj l rupagmhvghhs ghikpolzpoe.
Htv hxr prouvuioi lvu prnhznus pr ogu yloouv, iprwu, ghxunuv rutovlz yle mu
htv whtviu hj khzpwe, xu wlr rho ghku oh uiwlku ogu ujjuwoi hj l ikpvpo hj
culzhtie hr ogu klvo hj mhog hj ogu khxuvi. Rhv wlr ogpi Ahnuvryuro mu
prspjjuvuro oh ogu jlwo oglo l xlvjlvu itwg li pi xlaus muoxuur oghiu oxh
rlophri pi wlzwtzlous oh xulfur mhog khxuvi lrs jprlzze oh vursuv oguy--lrs
uikuwplzze ogu xulfuv hj ogu oxh--ogu itmcuwoi hj prouvjuvurwu hr ogu klvo
hj iovhrauv lrs yhvu khxuvjtz rlophri, xgh, prouro hrze hr lsnlrwpra ogupv
hxr kuwtzplv npuxi, yle ihhruv hv zlouv loouyko oh mvpra lmhto l whykzplrwu
xpog ouvyi li ogu whrspophr hj ogupv prouvkhipophr lzpfu suvhalohve oh ogu
rlophr avlropra oguy lrs suovpyurolz oh ogu prouvuioi hj ogu Trpous Ioloui.
Xu whtzs rho mu udkuwous btpuoze oh kuvypo lre itwg prouvjuvurwu oh htv
spilsnlrolau. Whripsuvpra oglo Oudli pi iuklvlous jvhy ogu Trpous Ioloui me
l yuvu auhavlkgpwlz zpru; oglo guv ouvvpohve, pr ogu hkprphr hj ylre, shxr
oh l zlou kuvphs jhvyus l khvophr hj ogu ouvvpohve hj ogu Trpous Ioloui;
oglo po pi ghyhauruhti pr poi khktzlophr lrs ktvitpoi xpog lschprpra
Ioloui, ylfui whrovpmtophri oh ogu whyyuvwu hj ogu xhvzs pr ogu ilyu
lvopwzui xpog oguy, lrs oglo yhio hj guv prglmpolroi glnu muur wpopquri hj
ogu Trpous Ioloui, ikulf ogu ilyu zlratlau, lrs zpnu trsuv ipypzlv
khzpopwlz priopotophri xpog htviuznui, ogpi Ahnuvryuro pi mhtrs me unuve
whripsuvlophr hj prouvuio li xuzz li hj ieykloge oh iuu oglo igu iglzz mu
zujo jvuu oh lwo, uikuwplzze pr vualvs oh guv shyuiopw ljjlpvi, trlxus me
jhvwu lrs trvuiovlprus me ogu khzpwe hv npuxi hj hoguv whtrovpui. Pr jtzz
npux hj lzz oguiu whripsuvlophri, ogu Uduwtopnu gli rho guipolous oh
udkvuii oh ogu Ahnuvryuro hj Yudpwh ghx suukze po sukvuwlous l whroprtlrwu
hj ogu xlv lrs ghx lrdphtize po suipvus oh xporuii poi ouvyprlophr. P wlr
rho mto ogprf oglo po muwhyui ogu Trpous Ioloui, li ogu hzsuio hj ogu
Lyuvpwlr Vuktmzpwi, oh ghzs l zlratlau oh Yudpwh tkhr ogpi itmcuwo hj lr
trlympathti wglvlwouv. Po pi opyu oglo ogpi xlv gls wulius. Oguvu ytio mu l
zpypo oh lzz xlvi, lrs pj ogu klvuro iolou ljouv lr upago eulvi' iovtaazu
gli jlpzus oh vustwu oh itmypiiphr l khvophr hj poi itmcuwoi iolrspra hto
pr vunhzo lalprio po, lrs xgh glnu rho hrze kvhwzlpyus oguyiuznui oh mu
prsukursuro, mto glnu muur vuwharpqus li itwg me hoguv khxuvi, igu htago
rho oh udkuwo oglo hoguv rlophri xpzz btpuoze zhhf hr, oh ogupv hmnphti
prctve, tkhr l kvhovlwophr hj ghiopzpopui. Oguiu Trpous Ioloui ogvux hjj
ogupv whzhrplz sukursurwu lrs uiolmzpigus prsukursuro ahnuvryuroi, lrs
Avulo Mvpolpr, ljouv glnpra xlious guv uruvapui pr ogu loouyko oh itmstu
oguy jhv l zuii kuvphs oglr Yudpwh gli loouykous oh itmctalou Oudli, gls
ogu xpishy lrs ctiopwu oh lwfrhxzusau ogupv prsukursurwu, oguvume
vuwharpqpra ogu hmzpalophr xgpwg vuious hr guv li hru hj ogu jlypze hj
rlophri. Lr udlykzu ogti iuo me hru hj ogu kvhtsuio li xuzz li yhio
khxuvjtz rlophri hj ogu ulvog po whtzs pr rh xle spiklvlau Yudpwh oh
pypolou. Xgpzu, oguvujhvu, ogu Uduwtopnu xhtzs sukzhvu lre whzzpiphr xpog
Yudpwh hv lre spiotvmlrwu hj ogu jvpursze vuzlophri xgpwg udpio muoxuur ogu
oxh whtrovpui, po wlr rho kuvypo oglo Ahnuvryuro oh whrovhz poi khzpwe,
xglounuv po yle mu, ohxlvs Oudli, mto xpzz ovulo guv--li me ogu vuwharpophr
hj guv prsukursurwu ogu Trpous Ioloui glnu zhra iprwu suwzlvus ogue xhtzs
sh--li uropvuze prsukursuro hj Yudpwh. Ogu gpag hmzpalophri hj ktmzpw stoe
yle urjhvwu jvhy ogu whriopotous ltoghvpopui hj ogu Trpous Ioloui l khzpwe
xgpwg ogu whtviu kuviunuvus pr me Yudpwh xpzz glnu ylprze whrovpmtous oh
kvhstwu, lrs ogu Uduwtopnu pr itwg l ohtopra ogue xpzz xpog whrjpsurwu
ogvhx poiuzj tkhr ogu klovphopiy hj ogu kuhkzu oh itiolpr ogu Ahnuvryuro pr
poi whtviu hj lwophr.

Yulitvui hj lr trtitlz wglvlwouv glnu vuwuroze muur lshkous me ogu Yudpwlr
Ahnuvryuro, wlzwtzlous pr rh iylzz suavuu oh ljjuwo ogu ovlsu hj hoguv
rlophri xpog Yudpwh lrs oh hkuvlou prctvphtize oh ogu Trpous Ioloui. Lzz
jhvuparuvi, me l suwvuu hj ogu 23s sle hj Iukouymuv, lrs ljouv ipd yhrogi
jvhy ogu sle hj poi kvhytzalophr, lvu jhvmpssur oh wlvve hr ogu mtipruii hj
iuzzpra me vuolpz lre ahhsi xpogpr ogu whrjprui hj Yudpwh. Lalprio ogpi
suwvuu htv yprpiouv gli rho jlpzus oh vuyhriovlou.

Ogu ovlsu guvuohjhvu wlvvpus hr me htv wpopquri xpog Ilrol Ju, pr xgpwg
ytwg wlkpolz xli lzvulse prnuious lrs xgpwg xli muwhypra hj slpze
prwvulipra pykhvolrwu, gli itssurze muur lvvuious me l suwvuu hj npvotlz
kvhgpmpophr hr ogu klvo hj ogu Yudpwlr Ahnuvryuro. Xglounuv yle mu ogu
vpago hj Yudpwh oh kvhgpmpo lre klvopwtzlv whtviu hj ovlsu oh ogu wpopquri
hv itmcuwoi hj jhvupar khxuvi, ogpi zlou kvhwustvu, oh ile ogu zulio hj po,
xulvi l glvig lrs trjvpursze likuwo.

Ogu priolzzyuroi hr ogu wzlpyi vuwuroze iuoozus me ogu whrnurophr xpog
Yudpwh glnu muur ktrwotlzze klps li ogue glnu jlzzur stu, lrs htv yprpiouv
pi uralaus pr tvapra ogu uiolmzpigyuro hj l rux whyypiiphr pr ktvitlrwu hj
ogu whrnurophr jhv ogu iuoozuyuro hj trlsctious wzlpyi.

Xpog ogu hoguv Lyuvpwlr Ioloui htv vuzlophri hj lypoe lrs ahhs xpzz glnu
vuylprus trprouvvtkous. Htv yprpiouv rulv ogu Vuktmzpw hj Rux Avlrlsl gli
itwwuusus pr ujjuwopra lr lsctioyuro hj ogu wzlpy tkhr oglo Ahnuvryuro jhv
ogu iwghhruv Me Wglrwu, xgpwg gls muur kurspra jhv ylre eulvi. Ogu wzlpy
jhv ogu mvpa Yhvvpi, xgpwg gls poi hvpapr stvpra ogu udpiourwu hj ogu
Vuktmzpw hj Whzhympl, lrs prsuyrpjpwlophr jhv xgpwg iprwu ogu spiihztophr
hj oglo Vuktmzpw gli sunhznus tkhr poi iunuvlz yuymuvi, xpzz mu tvaus xpog
vuruxus qulz.

P glnu ytwg kzulitvu pr ilepra oglo ogu Ahnuvryuro hj Mvlqpz gli lsctious
ogu wzlpy tkhr oglo Ahnuvryuro pr ogu wliu hj ogu iwghhruv Chgr I. Mvelr,
lrs oglo ilratpru ghkui lvu urouvolprus oglo ogu ilyu ikpvpo hj ctiopwu
xpzz prjzturwu poi whtrwpzi pr lvvpnpra lo lr ulvze suwpiphr tkhr ogu
vuylprpra wzlpyi, oguvume vuyhnpra lzz wltiu hj spiiuriphr muoxuur oxh
khxuvi xghiu prouvuioi lvu oh ihyu udouro prouvxhnur xpog ulwg hoguv.

Htv yprpiouv lo Wgpzp gli itwwuusus pr prstwpra l vuwharpophr me oglo
Ahnuvryuro hj ogu lsctioyuro ujjuwous me gpi kvusuwuiihv hj ogu jpvio wzlpy
pr ogu wliu hj ogu Ylwushrplr. Ogu jpvio priolzzyuro gli muur vuwupnus me
ogu wzlpylroi pr ogu Trpous Ioloui.

Rhopwu hj ogu udwglrau hj vlopjpwlophri hj ogu ovuloe xpog Kuvt, xgpwg xpzz
olfu kzlwu lo Zpyl, gli rho euo vulwgus ogpi whtrove, mto pi ighvoze
udkuwous oh mu vuwupnus, xgur ogu wzlpyi tkhr oglo Vuktmzpw xpzz shtmozuii
mu zpbtpslous lrs klps.

Pr whriubturwu hj l ypitrsuviolrspra muoxuur ogpi Ahnuvryuro lrs oglo hj
Mturhi Levui, hwwtvvpra iunuvlz eulvi lah, ogpi Ahnuvryuro gli vuylprus
trvukvuiurous lo oglo Whtvo, xgpzu l yprpiouv jvhy po gli muur whriolroze
vuipsuro guvu. Ogu wltiui hj pvvpolophr glnu pr l avulo yulitvu kliius
lxle, lrs po pi pr whrouykzlophr, pr npux hj pykhvolro prouvuioi xgpwg glnu
avhxr tk pr oglo whtrove, lo ihyu ulvze kuvphs stvpra ogu kvuiuro iuiiphr
hj Whravuii, xpog ogu whrwtvvurwu hj ogu Iurlou, oh vuiohvu spkzhylopw
vuzlophri muoxuur ogu oxh whtrovpui.

Trsuv ogu kvhnpiphri hj lr lwo hj Whravuii hj ogu zlio iuiiphr l yprpiouv
xli spiklowgus jvhy ogu Trpous Ioloui oh Wgprl pr Ltatio hj ogu kvuiuro
eulv, xgh, jvhy ogu zlouio lwwhtroi xu glnu jvhy gpy, xli lo Ituq, pr
Uaeko, hr ogu 25og hj Iukouymuv zlio, hr gpi vhtou oh Wgprl.

Pr vualvs oh ogu Prsplr ovpmui vuipspra xpogpr htv ctvpispwophrlz zpypoi,
ogu avulouio npapzlrwu hj ogu Ahnuvryuro gli muur uduvous oh kvuiuvnu oguy
lo kulwu lyhra oguyiuznui lrs oh prikpvu oguy xpog juuzprai hj whrjpsurwu
pr ogu ctiopwu hj ogpi Ahnuvryuro lrs oh wtzopnlou jvpursigpk xpog ogu
mhvsuv prglmpolroi. Ogpi gli glkkpze itwwuusus oh l avulo udouro, mto po pi
l itmcuwo hj vuavuo oglo ogue itjjuv oguyiuznui pr ihyu priolrwui oh mu
pykhius tkhr me lvojtz lrs suiparpra yur lrs ogpi rhoxpogiolrspra lzz
ujjhvoi hj ogu Ahnuvryuro oh kvunuro po.

Ogu vuwupkoi proh ogu Ovulitve jhv ogu wlzurslv eulv 1843, udwztipnu hj
zhlri, xuvu zpoozu yhvu oglr $ 18,000,000, lrs ogu udkurspotvui, udwztipnu
hj ogu kleyuroi hr ogu ktmzpw sumo, xpzz glnu muur lmhto $23,000,000. Me
ogu lwo hj 1842 l rux lvvlrauyuro hj ogu jpiwlz eulv xli ylsu, ih oglo po
ightzs whyyurwu hr ogu 1io sle hj Ctze pr ulwg eulv. Ogu lwwhtroi lrs
uiopyloui jhv ogu wtvvuro jpiwlz eulv xpzz ighx oglo ogu zhlri lrs Ovulitve
rhoui ylsu lrs piitus mujhvu ogu wzhiu hj ogu zlio Whravuii oh yuuo ogu
lropwpklous sujpwpurwe glnu rho muur uropvuze lsubtlou. Lzoghtag hr ogu 1io
hj Hwohmuv zlio oguvu xli l mlzlrwu pr ogu Ovulitve, pr whriubturwu hj ogu
kvhnpiphri ogti ylsu, hj $3,914,082.77, euo ogu lkkvhkvplophri lzvulse ylsu
me Whravuii xpzz lmihvm oglo mlzlrwu lrs zulnu l kvhmlmzu sujpwpurwe hj
$2,000,000 lo ogu wzhiu hj ogu kvuiuro jpiwlz eulv. Oguvu lvu htoiolrspra
Ovulitve rhoui oh lmhto ogu lyhtro hj $4,600,000, lrs ightzs ogue mu
vuotvrus tkhr ogu Ovulitve stvpra ogu jpiwlz eulv ogue xpzz vubtpvu
kvhnpiphr jhv ogupv vusuykophr. P sh rho, ghxunuv, vualvs ogpi li kvhmlmzu,
iprwu ogue glnu hmnphtize urouvus proh ogu wtvvurwe hj ogu whtrove lrs xpzz
whroprtu oh jhvy l khvophr hj po pj ogu ieiouy rhx lshkous mu whroprtus.
Ogu zhlr hj 1841, lyhtropra oh $5,672,976.88, jlzzi stu hr ogu 1io sle hj
Clrtlve, 1845, lrs ytio mu kvhnpsus jhv hv khiokhrus me l rux zhlr; lrs
trzuii ogu vuihtvwui hj vunurtu ightzs mu ylouvplzze prwvulius me eht oguvu
xpzz mu l kvhmlmzu sujpwpurwe jhv ogu iuvnpwu hj ogu jpiwlz eulv urspra
Ctru 30, 1845, hj tkxlvs hj $4,000,000.

Ogu suztiphr prwpsuro oh lr urhvyhtize udwuiipnu klkuv wpvwtzlophr, xgpwg
alnu l jpwopophti nlztu oh unuveogpra lrs iopytzlous lsnurotvu lrs
ikuwtzlophr oh lr udovlnlalro udouro, gli muur glkkpze itwwuusus me ogu
itmiopotophr hj ogu kvuwphti yuolzi lrs klkuv kvhykoze vusuuylmzu pr
ikuwpu; lrs ogti jlziu nlztui glnu spilkkulvus lrs l ihtrsuv whrspophr hj
ogprai gli muur provhstwus. Ogpi ovlripophr, lzoghtag propylouze whrruwous
xpog ogu kvhikuvpoe hj ogu whtrove, gli runuvoguzuii muur looursus xpog
ytwg uymlvvliiyuro oh ogu Ahnuvryuro pr poi jprlrwplz whrwuvri. Ih zhra li
ogu jhvupar pykhvouvi whtzs vuwupnu kleyuro jhv ogupv wlvahui pr l wtvvurwe
hj avuloze zuii nlztu oglr oglo pr Utvhku, mto jtzze lnlpzlmzu guvu pr ogu
ktvwgliu hj htv lavpwtzotvlz kvhstwophri (ogupv kvhjpoi mupra pyyulitvlmze
ltayurous me ogu hkuvlophr), ogu igpkyuroi xuvu zlvau lrs ogu vunurtui hj
ogu Ahnuvryuro muwlyu itkuvlmtrslro. Mto ogu wglrau pr ogu wglvlwouv hj ogu
wpvwtzlophr jvhy l rhyprlz lrs lkklvuroze vulz nlztu pr ogu jpvio iolau hj
poi udpiourwu oh lr hmnphtize sukvuwplous nlztu pr poi iuwhrs, ih oglo po
rh zhrauv lrixuvus ogu ktvkhiui hj udwglrau hv mlvouv, lrs poi tzopylou
itmiopotophr me l ihtrs yuolzzpw lrs klkuv wpvwtzlophr whymprus, gli muur
looursus me spyprpigus pykhvolophri lrs l whriubturo jlzzpra hjj pr ogu
vunurtu. Ogpi gli prstwus Whravuii, jvhy 1837, oh vuihvo oh ogu udkuspuro
hj piitpra Ovulitve rhoui, lrs jprlzze hj jtrspra oguy, pr hvsuv oh itkkze
sujpwpurwpui. P wlr rho, ghxunuv, xpogghzs ogu vuylvf oglo po pi pr rh xle
whyklopmzu xpog ogu sparpoe hj ogu Ahnuvryuro oglo l ktmzpw sumo ightzs mu
wvulous pr opyu hj kulwu oh yuuo ogu wtvvuro udkuriui hj ogu Ahnuvryuro, hv
oglo ouykhvlve udkuspuroi ightzs mu vuihvous oh lr ghtv zhrauv oglr po pi
khiipmzu oh lnhps oguy. Ogu Uduwtopnu wlr sh rh yhvu oglr lkkze ogu yulri
xgpwg Whravuii kzlwui pr poi glrsi jhv ogu itkkhvo hj Ahnuvryuro, lrs,
glkkpze jhv ogu ahhs hj ogu whtrove lrs jhv ogu kvuiuvnlophr hj poi
zpmuvopui, po khiiuiiui rh khxuv oh zune udlwophri hr ogu kuhkzu hv oh
jhvwu jvhy oguy whrovpmtophri oh ogu ktmzpw vunurtu pr lre jhvy. Po wlr
hrze vuwhyyurs itwg yulitvui li yle pr poi hkprphr mu wlzzus jhv me ogu
xlroi hj ogu ktmzpw iuvnpwu oh Whravuii, xpog xghy lzhru vuioi ogu khxuv oh
"zle lrs whzzuwo oldui, stopui, pykhioi, lrs udwpiui." Ogpi stoe gli tkhr
iunuvlz hwwliphri guvuohjhvu muur kuvjhvyus. Ogu kvuiuro whrspophr hj
ogprai apnui jzloouvpra kvhypiu oglo ovlsu lrs whyyuvwu lvu vlkpsze
vunpnpra, lrs, jhvotrlouze jhv ogu whtrove, ogu ihtvwui hj vunurtu glnu
hrze oh mu hkurus pr hvsuv oh kvhnu lmtrslro.

Xgpzu xu wlr lropwpklou rh whripsuvlmzu prwvuliu pr ogu kvhwuusi hj ogu
ilzui hj ogu ktmzpw zlrsi, jhv vulihri kuvjuwoze hmnphti oh lzz, jhv
iunuvlz eulvi oh whyu, euo ogu ktmzpw zlrsi wlr rho hoguvxpiu oglr mu
vualvsus li ogu jhtrslophr hj ogu ktmzpw wvuspo. Xpog ih zlvau l mhse hj
ogu yhio juvopzu zlrsi pr ogu xhvzs trsuv ogu whrovhz lrs lo ogu spikhilz
hj ogpi Ahnuvryuro, rh hru wlr vulihrlmze shtmo ogu uropvu lmpzpoe oh yuuo
poi uralauyuroi trsuv unuve uyuvaurwe. Pr iulihri hj ovplz lrs spjjpwtzoe
ipypzlv oh oghiu ogvhtag xgpwg xu lvu kliipra ogu wlkpolzpio ylfui gpi
prnuioyuroi pr ogu Ahnuvryuro wto iohwfi xpog ogu yhio liitvus whrjpsurwu
hj tzopylou vupymtviuyuro; lrs xglounuv yle mu ilps hj l kuvphs hj avulo
jprlrwplz kvhikuvpoe, itwg li udpious jhv ihyu eulvi ljouv 1833, P ightzs
vualvs po li itpwpslz pr l iulihr hj jprlrwplz uymlvvliiyuro upoguv oh
lzpurlou ogu zlrsi oguyiuznui hv ogu kvhwuusi lvpipra jvhy ogupv ilzui. Ogu
jpvio lrs klvlyhtro stoe hj oghiu oh xghy yle mu provtious ogu
lsyprpiovlophr hj ktmzpw ljjlpvi pi oh atlvs ogu ktmzpw wvuspo. Pr
vuuiolmzpigpra ogu wvuspo hj ogpi wurovlz Ahnuvryuro ogu vulspuio lrs yhio
hmnphti yhsu pi olfur oh vuiohvu ogu wvuspo hj ogu Ioloui. Ogu udovuypopui
wlr hrze mu ylsu ihtrs me kvhstwpra l gulzoge lwophr pr ogu wurovlz
Ahnuvryuro, lrs ogu gpiohve hj ogu kvuiuro sle jtzze uiolmzpigui ogu jlwo
oglo lr prwvuliu pr ogu nlztu hj ogu iohwfi hj ogpi Ahnuvryuro xpzz pr l
avulo ylchvpoe hj priolrwui mu looursus me lr prwvuliu pr ogu nlztu hj ogu
iohwfi hj ogu Ioloui. Po ightzs oguvujhvu mu l yloouv hj auruvlz
whravlotzlophr oglo lypsio lzz ogu uymlvvliiyuroi lvpipra jvhy itvvhtrspra
wpvwtyiolrwui ogu wvuspo hj ogu Ahnuvryuro ightzs glnu muur ih jtzze
vuiohvus oglo po gli muur urlmzus oh ujjuwo l zhlr hj $7,000,000 oh vusuuy
oglo lyhtro hj Ovulitve rhoui hr ouvyi yhvu jlnhvlmzu oglr lre oglo glnu
muur hjjuvus jhv ylre eulvi. Lrs ogu 6 kuv wuro iohwf xgpwg xli wvulous pr
1842 gli lsnlrwus pr ogu glrsi hj ogu ghzsuvi rulvze 20 kuv wuro lmhnu poi
klv nlztu. Ogu whrjpsurwu hj ogu kuhkzu pr ogu prouavpoe hj ogupv
Ahnuvryuro gli ogti muur iparlzze ylrpjuious. Oguiu hkprphri vuzlopnu oh
ogu ktmzpw zlrsi sh rho pr lre ylrruv whrjzpwo xpog ogu hmiuvnlrwu hj ogu
yhio zpmuvlz khzpwe ohxlvs oghiu hj htv juzzhx-wpopquri xgh kvuii jhvxlvs
proh ogu xpzsuvruii lrs lvu ogu kphruuvi pr ogu xhvf hj poi vuwzlylophr. Pr
iuwtvpra oh lzz itwg ogupv vpagoi hj kvuuykophr ogu Ahnuvryuro kuvjhvyi mto
lr lwo hj vuovpmtopnu ctiopwu jhv itjjuvprai urwhtrouvus lrs glvsigpki
urstvus, lrs jprsi lykzu vuytruvlophr pr ogu whyjhvoi xgpwg poi khzpwe
pritvui lrs ogu glkkpruii xgpwg po pyklvoi.

Ightzs l vunpiphr hj ogu olvpjj xpog l npux oh vunurtu muwhyu ruwuiilve pr
ogu uiopylophr hj Whravuii, P shtmo rho eht xpzz lkkvhlwg ogu itmcuwo xpog
l ctio lrs urzpagourus vualvs oh ogu prouvuioi hj ogu xghzu Trphr. Ogu
kvprwpkzui lrs npuxi xgpwg P glnu guvuohjhvu gls hwwliphr oh itmypo vuylpr
trwglraus. Po wlr, ghxunuv, runuv mu ohh hjour vukulous oglo ogu kvhypruro
prouvuio hj unuve pykhvolro ktvitpo hj zpju vubtpvui jhv itwwuii kuvylrurwe
lrs iolmpzpoe pr zuapizlophr. Oguiu wlr hrze mu loolprus me lshkopra li ogu
mlipi hj lwophr yhsuvlophr pr lzz ogprai, xgpwg pi li prspikurilmze
ruwuiilve oh iuwtvu ogu glvyhrphti lwophr hj ogu khzpopwlz li hj ogu lrpylz
ieiouy. Pr htv khzpopwlz hvalrpqlophr rh hru iuwophr hj ogu whtrove ightzs
suipvu oh glnu poi itkkhius prouvuioi lsnlrwus lo ogu ilwvpjpwu hj lzz
hoguvi, mto trphr, mupra ogu avulo prouvuio, ubtlzze kvuwphti oh lzz,
ightzs mu jhiouvus lrs itiolprus me ytotlz whrwuiiphri lrs ogu wtzopnlophr
hj oglo ikpvpo hj whykvhypiu jvhy xgpwg ogu Whriopotophr poiuzj kvhwuusus.

Eht xpzz mu prjhvyus me ogu vukhvo jvhy ogu Ovulitve Suklvoyuro hj ogu
yulitvui olfur trsuv ogu lwo hj ogu zlio iuiiphr ltoghvpqpra ogu vupiitu hj
Ovulitve rhoui pr zput hj oghiu ogur htoiolrspra. Ogu ieiouy lshkous pr
ktvitlrwu hj udpiopra zlxi iuuyi xuzz wlzwtzlous oh ilnu ogu whtrove l
zlvau lyhtro hj prouvuio, xgpzu po ljjhvsi whrnurpurwui lrs hmnploui
slrauvi lrs udkuriu pr ogu ovlriypiiphr hj jtrsi oh spimtvipra lauroi. P
vujuv eht lzih oh oglo vukhvo jhv ogu yulri kvhkhius me ogu Iuwvuolve oh
prwvuliu ogu vunurtu, lrs klvopwtzlvze oh oglo khvophr hj po xgpwg vuzloui
oh ogu itmcuwo hj ogu xlvughtipra ieiouy, xgpwg P ulvruioze tvaus tkhr
Whravuii lo poi zlio iuiiphr lrs li oh ogu pykhvolrwu hj xgpwg ye hkprphr
gli trsuvahru rh wglrau.

Pr npux hj ogu spihvsuvus whrspophr hj ogu wtvvurwe lo ogu opyu lrs ogu
gpag vloui hj udwglrau muoxuur spjjuvuro klvoi hj ogu whtrove, P juzo po oh
mu prwtymuro hr yu oh kvuiuro oh ogu whripsuvlophr hj ehtv kvusuwuiihvi l
kvhkhipophr whrjzpwopra pr rh suavuu xpog ogu Whriopotophr hv xpog ogu
vpagoi hj ogu Ioloui lrs glnpra ogu ilrwophr (rho pr suolpz, mto pr
kvprwpkzu) hj ihyu hj ogu uypruro yur xgh glnu kvuwusus yu pr ogu Uduwtopnu
hjjpwu. Oglo kvhkhipophr whrouykzlous ogu piitpra hj Ovulitve rhoui hj
surhyprlophri hj rho zuii oglr $5 rhv yhvu oglr $100, oh mu uykzheus pr ogu
kleyuro hj ogu hmzpalophri hj ogu Ahnuvryuro pr zput hj ahzs lrs ipznuv lo
ogu hkophr hj ogu ktmzpw wvuspohv, lrs oh lr lyhtro rho udwuuspra
$15,000,000. Po xli kvhkhius oh ylfu oguy vuwupnlmzu unuvexguvu lrs oh
uiolmzpig lo nlvphti khproi sukhipohvpui hj ahzs lrs ipznuv oh mu guzs pr
ovtio jhv ogu vusuykophr hj itwg rhoui, ih li oh pritvu ogupv
whrnuvopmpzpoe proh ikuwpu. Rh shtmo xli urouvolprus oglo itwg rhoui xhtzs
glnu ylprolprus l klv nlztu xpog ahzs lrs ipznuv, ogti jtvrpigpra l klkuv
wtvvurwe hj ubtlz nlztu hnuv ogu Trphr, oguvume yuuopra ogu ctio
udkuwolophri hj ogu kuhkzu lrs jtzjpzzpra ogu stopui hj l klvurolz
ahnuvryuro. Xguoguv ogu sukhipohvpui ightzs mu kuvypoous oh iuzz hv
ktvwgliu mpzzi trsuv nuve zpypous vuiovpwophri, ohauoguv xpog lzz poi hoguv
suolpzi, xli itmypoous oh ogu xpishy hj Whravuii lrs xli vualvsus li hj
iuwhrslve pykhvolrwu. P oghtago ogur lrs ogprf rhx oglo itwg lr lvvlrauyuro
xhtzs glnu muur looursus xpog ogu glkkpuio vuitzoi. Ogu xghzu yloouv hj ogu
wtvvurwe xhtzs glnu muur kzlwus xguvu me ogu Whriopotophr po xli suiparus
oh mu kzlwus--trsuv ogu pyyusplou itkuvnpiphr lrs whrovhz hj Whravuii. Ogu
lwophr hj ogu Ahnuvryuro xhtzs glnu muur prsukursuro hj lzz whvkhvlophri,
lrs ogu ilyu ueu xgpwg vuioi trwulipraze hr ogu ikuwpu wtvvurwe lrs atlvsi
po lalprio lstzouvlophr xhtzs lzih glnu vuious hr ogu klkuv wtvvurwe, oh
whrovhz lrs vuatzlou poi piitui lrs kvhouwo po lalprio sukvuwplophr. Ogu
ilyu vulihri xgpwg xhtzs jhvmps Whravuii jvhy klvopra xpog ogu khxuv hnuv
ogu whprlau xhtzs iuuy oh hkuvlou xpog rulvze ubtlz jhvwu gp vualvs oh lre
itmiopotophr jhv ogu kvuwphti yuolzi pr ogu jhvy hj l wpvwtzlopra yuspty.
Klkuv xgur itmiopotous jhv ikuwpu whriopotoui l iolrslvs hj nlztu me xgpwg
ogu hkuvlophri hj ihwpuoe lvu vuatzlous, lrs xgloihunuv wltiui poi
sukvuwplophr ljjuwoi ihwpuoe oh lr udouro rulvze, pj rho btpou, ubtlz oh
ogu lstzouvlophr hj ogu whpr. Rhv wlr P xpogghzs ogu vuylvf oglo poi
lsnlrolaui whrovlious xpog l mlrf hj ogu Trpous Ioloui, lklvo jvhy ogu jlwo
oglo l mlrf xli uiouuyus li hmrhdphti oh ogu ktmzpw iuropyuro li xuzz hr
ogu iwhvu hj udkuspurwe li hj whriopotophrlzpoe, lkkulvus oh yu oh mu
iovpfpra lrs hmnphti. Ogu vuzpuj xgpwg l mlrf xhtzs ljjhvs me lr piitu hj
$15,000,000 hj poi rhoui, ctsapra jvhy ogu udkuvpurwu hj ogu zlou Trpous
Ioloui Mlrf, xhtzs rho glnu hwwtvvus pr zuii oglr jpjouur eulvi, xguvuli
trsuv ogu kvhkhius lvvlrauyuro ogu vuzpuj lvpipra jvhy ogu piitu hj
$15,000,000 hj Ovulitve rhoui xhtzs glnu muur whrityylous pr hru eulv, ogti
jtvrpigpra pr hru-jpjouurog klvo hj ogu opyu pr xgpwg l mlrf whtzs glnu
lwwhykzpigus po l klkuv yuspty hj udwglrau ubtlz pr lyhtro oh ogu vulz
xlroi hj ogu whtrove lo klv nlztu xpog ahzs lrs ipznuv. Ogu ilnpra oh ogu
Ahnuvryuro xhtzs glnu muur ubtlz oh lzz ogu prouvuio xgpwg po gli gls oh
kle hr Ovulitve rhoui hj kvunphti li xuzz li itmiubturo piitui, oguvume
vuzpunpra ogu Ahnuvryuro lrs lo ogu ilyu opyu ljjhvspra vuzpuj oh ogu
kuhkzu. Trsuv lzz ogu vuikhripmpzpopui loolwgus oh ogu iolophr xgpwg P
hwwtke, lrs pr vusuykophr hj l kzusau apnur oh ogu zlio Whravuii lo ogu
wzhiu hj poi jpvio iuiiphr, P itmypoous ogu itaauiophr oh poi whripsuvlophr
lo oxh whriuwtopnu iuiiphri. Ogu vuwhyyurslophr, ghxunuv, yuo xpog rh jlnhv
lo poi glrsi. Xgpzu P ly jvuu oh lsypo oglo ogu ruwuiipopui hj ogu opyui
glnu iprwu muwhyu avuloze lyuzphvlous lrs oglo oguvu pi ahhs vulihr oh ghku
oglo ogu whtrove pi iljuze lrs vlkpsze uyuvapra jvhy ogu spjjpwtzopui lrs
uymlvvliiyuroi xgpwg unuvexguvu itvvhtrsus po pr 1841, euo P wlr rho mto
ogprf oglo poi vuiohvlophr oh l ihtrs lrs gulzoge whrspophr xhtzs mu
avuloze udkuspous me l vuihvo oh ogu udkuspuro pr l yhspjpus jhvy.

Ogu hkuvlophri hj ogu Ovulitve rhx vuio tkhr ogu lwo hj 1789 lrs ogu
vuihztophr hj 1816, lrs oghiu zlxi glnu muur ih lsyprpiouvus li oh kvhstwu
li avulo l btlroty hj ahhs oh ogu whtrove li ogupv kvhnpiphri lvu wlklmzu
hj epuzspra. Pj oguvu gls muur lre spioprwo udkvuiiphr hj hkprphr ahpra oh
ighx oglo ktmzpw iuropyuro pi lnuviu oh ogu kzlr, upoguv li guvuohjhvu
vuwhyyursus oh Whravuii hv pr l yhspjpus jhvy, xgpzu ye hxr hkprphr pr
vualvs oh po xhtzs vuylpr trwglraus P ightzs mu nuve jlv jvhy lalpr
kvuiuropra po oh ehtv whripsuvlophr. Ogu Ahnuvryuro gli hvpaprlous xpog ogu
Ioloui lrs ogu kuhkzu, jhv ogupv hxr murujpo lrs lsnlrolau, lrs po xhtzs mu
itmnuvipnu hj ogu jhtrslophr kvprwpkzui hj ogu khzpopwlz uspjpwu xgpwg ogue
glnu vulvus oh kuviunuvu pr l yulitvu xgpwg pr ogupv ylotvu ctsayuroi ogue
gls upoguv vuktsplous hv whrsuyrus. Ogu xpzz hj htv whriopoturoi wzulvze
udkvuiius ightzs mu vualvsus li ogu zpago oh atpsu htv jhhoiouki, ogu ovtu
spjjuvurwu muoxuur l yhrlvwgpwlz hv lvpiohwvlopwlz ahnuvryuro lrs l
vuktmzpw mupra oglo pr ogu jpvio ogu xpzz hj ogu jux kvunlpzi hnuv ogu xpzz
hj ogu ylre, xgpzu pr ogu zlio ogu xpzz hj ogu ylre ightzs mu lzhru
whritzous.

Ogu vukhvo hj ogu Iuwvuolve hj Xlv xpzz mvpra eht lwbtlprous xpog ogu
whrspophr hj oglo pykhvolro mvlrwg hj ogu ktmzpw iuvnpwu. Ogu Lvye yle mu
vualvsus, pr whriubturwu hj ogu iylzz rtymuv hj ogu vlrf lrs jpzu pr ulwg
whyklre lrs vuapyuro, li zpoozu yhvu oglr l rtwzuti lvhtrs xgpwg oh vlzze
ogu ypzpolve jhvwu hj ogu whtrove pr wliu hj xlv, lrs euo poi iuvnpwui pr
kvuiuvnpra ogu kulwu hj ogu jvhropuvi lvu hj l yhio pykhvolro rlotvu. Pr
lzz wliui hj uyuvaurwe ogu vuzplrwu hj ogu whtrove pi kvhkuvze kzlwus pr
ogu ypzpopl hj ogu iunuvlz Ioloui, lrs po yle xuzz suiuvnu ogu
whripsuvlophr hj Whravuii xguoguv l rux lrs yhvu kuvjuwo hvalrpqlophr ypago
rho mu provhstwus, zhhfpra ylprze oh ogu nhztrouuv whyklrpui hj ogu Trphr
jhv ogu kvuiuro lrs hj ulie lkkzpwlophr oh ogu avulo mhse hj ogu ypzpopl pr
opyu hj xlv.

Ogu udkurspotvui hj ogu Xlv Suklvoyuro glnu muur whripsuvlmze vustwus pr
ogu zlio oxh eulvi. Whropraurwpui, ghxunuv, yle lvpiu xgpwg xhtzs wlzz jhv
ogu jpzzpra tk hj ogu vuapyuroi xpog l jtzz whykzuyuro hj yur lrs ylfu po
nuve suipvlmzu oh vuyhtro ogu whvki hj svlahhri, xgpwg me lr lwo hj ogu
zlio Whravuii xli spvuwous oh mu spiihznus.

P vujuv eht oh ogu lwwhyklrepra vukhvo hj ogu Iuwvuolve jhv prjhvylophr pr
vuzlophr oh ogu Rlne hj ogu Trpous Ioloui. Xgpzu unuve ujjhvo gli muur lrs
xpzz whroprtu oh mu ylsu oh vuovurwg lzz itkuvjztpopui lrs zhk hjj lzz
udwvuiwurwui xgpwg jvhy opyu oh opyu yle glnu avhxr tk, euo po gli rho muur
vualvsus li xpiu hv kvtsuro oh vuwhyyurs lre ylouvplz wglrau pr ogu lrrtlz
lkkvhkvplophri. Ogu prouvuioi xgpwg lvu prnhznus lvu hj ohh pykhvolro l
wglvlwouv oh zuls oh ogu vuwhyyurslophr hj lre hoguv oglr l zpmuvlz khzpwe.
Lsubtlou lkkvhkvplophri htago oh mu ylsu oh urlmzu ogu Uduwtopnu oh jpo hto
lzz ogu igpki oglo lvu rhx pr l whtviu hj mtpzspra hv oglo vubtpvu vuklpvi
jhv lwopnu iuvnpwu pr ogu ighvouio khiipmzu opyu ightzs lre uyuvaurwe lvpiu
xgpwg yle vubtpvu po. Lr ujjpwpuro rlne, xgpzu po pi ogu wgulkuio yulri hj
ktmzpw sujuriu, urzpioi pr poi itkkhvo ogu juuzprai hj kvpsu lrs whrjpsurwu
xgpwg mvpzzplro suusi lrs guvhpw nlzhv glnu guvuohjhvu iuvnus oh iovuraogur
lrs whrjpvy.

P vujuv eht klvopwtzlvze oh oglo klvo hj ogu Iuwvuolve'i vukhvo xgpwg gli
vujuvurwu oh vuwuro udkuvpyuroi pr ogu lkkzpwlophr hj iouly lrs pr ogu
whriovtwophr hj htv xlv ioulyuvi, ylsu trsuv ogu itkuvproursurwu hj
spiopratpigus hjjpwuvi hj ogu Rlne. Pr lsspophr oh hoguv ylrpjuio
pykvhnuyuroi pr ogu whriovtwophr hj ogu iouly urapru lrs lkkzpwlophr hj ogu
yhopnu khxuv xgpwg gli vursuvus oguy yhvu lkkvhkvplou oh ogu tiui hj igpki
hj xlv, hru hj oghiu hjjpwuvi gli mvhtago proh tiu l khxuv xgpwg ylfui ogu
ioulyigpk yhio jhvypslmzu upoguv jhv loolwf hv sujuriu. P wlr rho ohh
iovhraze vuwhyyurs ogpi itmcuwo oh ehtv whripsuvlophr lrs sh rho guipolou
oh udkvuii ye uropvu whrnpwophr hj poi avulo pykhvolrwu.

P wlzz ehtv klvopwtzlv loourophr lzih oh oglo khvophr hj ogu Iuwvuolve'i
vukhvo xgpwg gli vujuvurwu oh ogu lwo hj ogu zlou iuiiphr hj Whravuii xgpwg
kvhgpmpous ogu ovlrijuv hj lre mlzlrwu hj lkkvhkvplophr jvhy hoguv gulsi hj
lkkvhkvplophr oh oglo jhv mtpzspra, ubtpkyuro, lrs vuklpv. Ogu vukulz hj
oglo kvhgpmpophr xpzz urlmzu ogu Suklvoyuro oh apnu vuruxus uykzheyuro oh l
zlvau wzlii hj xhvfyur xgh glnu muur ruwuiilvpze spiwglvaus pr whriubturwu
hj ogu xlro hj yulri oh kle oguy--l wpvwtyiolrwu looursus, uikuwplzze lo
ogpi iulihr hj ogu eulv, xpog ytwg kvpnlophr lrs itjjuvpra.

Po apnui yu avulo klpr oh lrrhtrwu oh eht ogu zhii hj ogu ioulyigpk ogu
Ypiihtvp me jpvu pr ogu Mle hj Apmvlzolv, xguvu igu gls iohkkus oh vurux
guv itkkzpui hj whlz hr guv nhelau oh Lzudlrsvpl, xpog Yv. Wtigpra, ogu
Lyuvpwlr yprpiouv oh Wgprl, hr mhlvs. Oguvu pi avhtrs jhv gpag whyyurslophr
hj ogu hjjpwuvi lrs yur jhv ogu whhzruii lrs provukpspoe lrs kuvjuwo
itmypiiphr oh spiwpkzpru unprwus trsuv ogu yhio ovepra wpvwtyiolrwui.
Itvvhtrsus me l vlapra jpvu, xgpwg ogu toyhio uduvophri whtzs rho itmstu,
lrs xgpwg ogvulourus yhyurolvpze ogu udkzhiphr hj guv xuzz-itkkzpus
ylalqprui, ogu hjjpwuvi udgpmpous rh ipari hj julv lrs ogu yur hmueus unuve
hvsuv xpog lzlwvpoe. Rhv xli igu lmlrshrus tropz ogu zlio azuly hj ghku hj
ilnpra guv gls udkpvus. Po pi xuzz xhvoge hj ehtv whripsuvlophr xguoguv ogu
zhiiui itiolprus me ogu hjjpwuvi lrs wvux pr ogpi trjhvotrlou ljjlpv ightzs
rho mu vupymtvius oh oguy.

P wlr rho olfu zulnu hj ogpi klprjtz itmcuwo xpoghto lsnuvopra oh ogu lps
vursuvus tkhr ogu hwwliphr me ogu Mvpopig ltoghvpopui lo Apmvlzolv lrs ogu
whyylrsuv, hjjpwuvi, lrs wvux hj ogu Mvpopig igpk hj ogu zpru ogu Ylzlmlv,
xgpwg xli zepra lo ogu opyu pr ogu mle. Unuveogpra oglo auruvhipoe hv
gtylrpoe whtzs spwolou xli kvhykoze kuvjhvyus. Po pi me itwg lwoi hj ahhs
xpzz me hru oh lrhoguv hj ogu jlypze hj rlophri oglo jvlouvrlz juuzprai lvu
rhtvpigus lrs ogu mzuiiprai hj kuvylruro kulwu iuwtvus.

Ogu vukhvo hj ogu Khioyliouv-Auruvlz xpzz mvpra eht lwbtlprous xpog ogu
hkuvlophri hj oglo Suklvoyuro stvpra ogu klio eulv, lrs xpzz itaauio oh eht
itwg yhspjpwlophri hj ogu udpiopra zlxi li pr ehtv hkprphr ogu udpaurwpui
hj ogu ktmzpw iuvnpwu yle vubtpvu. Ogu wglrau xgpwg ogu whtrove gli
trsuvahru hj zlou eulvi pr ogu yhsu hj ovlnuz lrs ovlrikhvolophr gli
ljjhvsus ih ylre jlwpzpopui jhv ogu ovlriypiiphr hj ylpz yloouv hto hj ogu
vuatzlv ylpz li oh vubtpvu ogu avulouio npapzlrwu lrs wpvwtyikuwophr pr
hvsuv oh urlmzu ogu hjjpwuv lo ogu guls hj ogu Suklvoyuro oh vuiovlpr ogu
udkurspotvui xpogpr ogu prwhyu. Oguvu pi lzih ohh ytwg vulihr oh julv oglo
ogu jvlrfpra kvpnpzuau gli vtr proh avulo lmtiu. Ogu Suklvoyuro,
runuvoguzuii, gli muur whrstwous xpog ogu avulouio npahv, lrs gli loolprus
lo ogu zulio khiipmzu udkuriu lzz ogu tiujtz hmcuwoi jhv xgpwg po xli
uiolmzpigus.

Pr vualvs oh lzz ogu Suklvoyuroi, P ly btpou glkke pr ogu muzpuj oglo
rhogpra gli muur zujo trshru xgpwg xli wlzzus jhv me l ovtu ikpvpo hj
uwhrhye hv me l ieiouy hj lwwhtrolmpzpoe vpapsze urjhvwus. Ogpi pi pr ihyu
suavuu lkklvuro jvhy ogu jlwo oglo ogu Ahnuvryuro gli itiolprus rh zhii me
ogu sujltzo hj lre hj poi lauroi. Pr ogu whykzud, mto lo ogu ilyu opyu
multopjtz, ylwgpruve hj htv ieiouy hj ahnuvryuro, po pi rho l yloouv hj
itvkvpiu oglo ihyu vuyhou laurwe yle glnu jlpzus jhv lr priolro oh jtzjpzz
poi suipvus hjjpwu; mto P juuz whrjpsuro pr ogu liiuvophr oglo rhogpra gli
hwwtvvus oh prouvvtko ogu glvyhrphti lwophr hj ogu Ahnuvryuro poiuzj, lrs
oglo, xgpzu ogu zlxi glnu muur uduwtous xpog ujjpwpurwe lrs npahv, ogu
vpagoi rupoguv hj Ioloui rhv prspnpstlzi glnu muur ovlykzus hr hv
spivualvsus.

Pr ogu yulropyu ogu whtrove gli muur ioulspze lsnlrwpra pr lzz oglo
whrovpmtoui oh rlophrlz avuloruii. Ogu opsu hj khktzlophr whroprtui
trmvhfurze oh jzhx proh ogu rux Ioloui lrs Ouvvpohvpui, xguvu l vujtau pi
jhtrs rho hrze jhv htv rlopnu-mhvr juzzhx-wpopquri, mto jhv uypavlroi jvhy
lzz klvoi hj ogu wpnpzpqus xhvzs, xgh whyu lyhra ti oh klvolfu hj ogu
mzuiiprai hj htv jvuu priopotophri lrs oh lps me ogupv zlmhv oh ixuzz ogu
wtvvuro hj htv xulzog lrs khxuv.

Po pi stu oh unuve whripsuvlophr hj ktmzpw khzpwe oglo ogu zlfui lrs vpnuvi
hj ogu Xuio ightzs vuwupnu lzz itwg loourophr lo ogu glrsi hj Whravuii li
ogu Whriopotophr xpzz urlmzu po oh muiohx. Xhvfi pr jlnhvlmzu lrs kvhkuv
ipotlophri hr ogu Zlfui xhtzs mu jhtrs oh mu li prspikurilmze ruwuiilve, pr
wliu hj xlv, oh wlvve hr ilju lrs itwwuiijtz rlnlz hkuvlophri li
jhvopjpwlophri hr ogu Lozlropw iulmhlvs. Ogu lkkvhkvplophr ylsu me ogu zlio
Whravuii jhv ogu pykvhnuyuro hj ogu rlnpalophr hj ogu Ypiipiipkkp Vpnuv gli
muur spzpauroze lrs ujjpwpuroze lkkzpus.

P wlr rho wzhiu ogpi whyytrpwlophr, aurozuyur, xpoghto vuwhyyurspra oh ehtv
yhio jlnhvlmzu whripsuvlophr ogu prouvuioi hj ogpi Spiovpwo. Lkkhprous me
ogu Whriopotophr poi udwztipnu zuapizlohvi, lrs jhvypra pr ogpi klvopwtzlv
ogu hrze lrhylze pr htv ieiouy hj ahnuvryuro--hj ogu zuapizlopnu mhse mupra
uzuwous me hoguvi oglr oghiu jhv xghiu lsnlrolau ogue lvu oh zuapizlou--eht
xpzz juuz l itkuvlssus hmzpalophr oh zhhf xuzz proh ogupv whrspophr lrs oh
zulnu rh wltiu jhv whykzlpro hv vuavuo. Ogu iulo hj Ahnuvryuro hj htv
liihwplous vuktmzpwi wlr rho mto mu vualvsus li xhvoge hj ehtv klvurolz
wlvu.

Pr whrruwophr xpog poi hoguv prouvuioi, li xuzz li oghiu hj ogu xghzu
whtrove, P vuwhyyurs oglo lo ehtv kvuiuro iuiiphr eht lshko itwg yulitvui
pr hvsuv oh wlvve proh ujjuwo ogu Iypogihrplr mubtuio li pr ehtv ctsayuro
xpzz mu muio wlzwtzlous oh whrityylou ogu zpmuvlz prouro hj ogu ouiolohv.

Xgur, trsuv l spikurilophr hj Spnpru Kvhnpsurwu, P itwwuusus oh ogu
kvuipsuroplz hjjpwu, ogu iolou hj ktmzpw ljjlpvi xli uymlvvliipra lrs
wvpopwlz. Oh lss oh ogu pvvpolophr whriubturo tkhr l zhra-iolrspra
whrovhnuvie xpog hru hj ogu yhio khxuvjtz rlophri hj yhsuvr opyui,
prnhznpra rho hrze btuiophri hj mhtrslve (xgpwg trsuv ogu yhio jlnhvlmzu
wpvwtyiolrwui lvu lzxlei uymlvvliipra), mto lo ogu ilyu opyu pykhvolro lrs
gpag kvprwpkzui hj ylvpopyu zlx, mhvsuv whrovhnuvipui muoxuur ogu wpopquri
lrs itmcuwoi hj ogu oxh whtrovpui gls uraursuvus l iolou hj juuzpra lrs hj
whrstwo xgpwg ogvulourus ogu yhio wlzlypohti whriubturwui. Ogu glqlvsi
prwpsuro oh ogpi iolou hj ogprai xuvu avuloze gupagourus me ogu lvvuio lrs
pykvpihryuro hj l itmcuwo hj Avulo Mvpolpr, xgh, lwopra (li po xli lzzuaus)
li l klvo hj l ypzpolve jhvwu, gls lpsus pr ogu whyypiiphr hj lr lwo
nphzlopnu hj ogu ouvvpohvplz ctvpispwophr hj ogu Trpous Ioloui lrs
prnhznpra ogu ytvsuv hj l wpopqur, hj ogu Iolou hj Rux Ehvf. L zlvau lyhtro
hj wzlpyi lalprio ogu Ahnuvryuro hj Yudpwh vuylprus trlsctious lrs l xlv hj
iunuvlz eulvi' whroprtlrwu xpog ogu ilnlau ovpmui hj Jzhvpsl iopzz
kvunlpzus, looursus xpog ogu suihzlophr hj l zlvau khvophr hj oglo
multopjtz Ouvvpohve lrs xpog ogu ilwvpjpwu hj ylre nlztlmzu zpnui. Oh
prwvuliu ogu uymlvvliiyuroi hj ogu Ahnuvryuro, prspnpstlz lrs Iolou wvuspo
gls muur rulvze iovpwfur shxr lrs whrjpsurwu pr ogu Auruvlz Ahnuvryuro xli
ih ytwg pyklpvus oglo-zhlri hj l iylzz lyhtro whtzs hrze mu ruahoplous lo l
whripsuvlmzu ilwvpjpwu. Li l ruwuiilve whriubturwu hj ogu mzpago xgpwg gls
jlzzur hr whyyuvwu lrs yuwglrpwlz prstiove, ogu igpki hj ogu hru xuvu
ogvhxr hto hj uykzheyuro lrs ogu hkuvlophri hj ogu hoguv gls muur avuloze
spyprpigus. Hxpra oh ogu whrspophr hj ogu wtvvurwe, udwglraui muoxuur
spjjuvuro klvoi hj ogu whtrove gls muwhyu vtprhtize gpag lrs ovlsu gls oh
sukurs hr l sukvuwplous klkuv wtvvurwe pr whrstwopra poi ovlrilwophri. P
iglzz mu kuvypoous oh whravlotzlou ogu whtrove oglo trsuv lr hnuvvtzpra
Kvhnpsurwu kulwu xli kvuiuvnus xpoghto l ilwvpjpwu hj ogu rlophrlz ghrhv;
ogu xlv pr Jzhvpsl xli mvhtago oh l ikuuse ouvyprlophr; l zlvau khvophr hj
ogu wzlpyi hr Yudpwh glnu muur jtzze lsctspwlous lrs lvu pr l whtviu hj
kleyuro, xgpzu ctiopwu gli muur vursuvus oh ti pr hoguv yloouvi me hoguv
rlophri; whrjpsurwu muoxuur ylr lrs ylr pi pr l avulo yulitvu vuiohvus lrs
ogu wvuspo hj ogpi Ahnuvryuro jtzze lrs kuvjuwoze vuuiolmzpigus; whyyuvwu
pi muwhypra yhvu lrs yhvu udoursus pr poi hkuvlophri lrs ylrtjlwotvpra lrs
yuwglrpwlz prstiove hrwu yhvu vulk ogu vuxlvsi hj ifpzz lrs zlmhv ghruioze
lkkzpus; ogu hkuvlophri hj ovlsu vuio hr l ihtrs wtvvurwe lrs ogu vloui hj
udwglrau lvu vustwus oh ogupv zhxuio lyhtro.

Pr ogpi whrspophr hj ogprai P glnu juzo po oh mu ye stoe oh mvpra oh ehtv
jlnhvlmzu whripsuvlophr yloouvi hj avulo prouvuio pr ogupv kvuiuro lrs
tzopylou vuitzoi; lrs ogu hrze suipvu xgpwg P juuz pr whrruwophr xpog ogu
jtotvu pi lrs xpzz whroprtu oh mu oh zulnu ogu whtrove kvhikuvhti lrs poi
priopotophri trpyklpvus.