Ui ubj Djoluj loe Bihdj iq Yjtyjdjouluapjd iq ubj Hoauje Dulujd:

Cj blpj siouaohje slhdj qiy jktyjddaog ihy gyluauhej ui ubj Dhtyjrj Yhnjy
iq ubj Hoapjydj qiy ubj vjojqaud loe vnjddaogd cbasb ihy sihouym, hoejy Bad
waoe tyipaejosj, bld jofimje ehyaog ubj tldu mjly. Oiucaubduloeaog ubj
jksauaog dsjojd ubyihgb cbasb cj blpj tlddje, oiubaog bld isshyyje ui
eaduhyv ubj gjojyln tjlsj iy ui ejylogj ubj blyriom iq ihy tinauasln
dmdujr. Ubj gyjlu riyln dtjsulsnj bld vjjo jkbavauje iq l oluaio
lttyikarluaog ao ohrvjy ui 20,000,000 tjitnj blpaog tjyqiyrje ubj bagb loe
artiyulou qhosuaio iq jnjsuaog ubjay Sbajq Rlgaduyluj qiy ubj ujyr iq qihy
mjlyd caubihu ubj sirraddaio iq lom lsud iq painjosj iy ubj rloaqjduluaio
iq l dtayau iq aodhviyeaoluaio ui ubj nlcd. Ubj gyjlu loe aojduarlvnj yagbu
iq dhqqylgj bld vjjo jkjysadje vm lnn cbi cjyj aopjduje caub au hoejy ubj
nlcd iq ubj eaqqjyjou Dulujd ao l dtayau easuluje lnioj vm l ejdayj, ao ubj
djnjsuaio iq ubj lgjou, ui leplosj ubj aoujyjdud iq ubj sihouym loe ui
tnlsj vjmioe fjitlyem ubj aoduauhuaiod hoejy cbasb au ad ihy blttaojdd ui
napj. Ublu ubj ejjtjdu aoujyjdu bld vjjo rloaqjduje vm lnn ihy sihouymrjo
ao ubj yjdhnu iq ubj jnjsuaio ad oiu njdd uyhj ublo bagbnm syjeaulvnj ui
ubjr. Pldu rhnuauhejd blpj lddjrvnje qyir uarj ui uarj lu plyaihd tnlsjd
qiy ubj thytidj iq sloplddaog ubj rjyaud loe tyjujodaiod iq ubidj cbi cjyj
tyjdjouje qiy ubjay dhqqylgjd, vhu oi lyrje dineajym bld vjjo ojsjddlym ui
yjduylao caubao tyitjy naraud ubj tithnly xjln iy ui tyjpjou painjou
ihuvyjlwd. L tyaosatnj rhsb riyj siouyinnaog cld qihoe ao ubj nipj iq iyejy
loe ivjeajosj ui ubj nlcd, cbasb, caub rjyj aoeapaehln jksjtuaiod,
jpjymcbjyj tiddjddjd ubj Lrjyaslo raoe, loe siouyind caub lo aoqnhjosj qly
riyj ticjyqhn ublo bidud iq lyrje rjo. Cj slo oiu ecjnn htio ubad tasuhyj
caubihu yjsigoaxaog ao au ublu ejjt loe ejpiuje luulsbrjou io ubj tlyu iq
ubj tjitnj ui ubj aoduauhuaiod hoejy cbasb cj napj cbasb tyisnlard ubjay
tjytjuhaum. Ubj gyjlu ivfjsuaio cbasb bld lnclmd tyjplanje lglaodu ubj
jnjsuaio vm ubj tjitnj iq ubjay sbajq jkjshuapj iqqasjy bld vjjo ubj
lttyjbjodaio iq uhrhnud loe eadiyejyd cbasb ragbu aopinpj ao yhao ubj
jouayj Gipjyorjou. L djshyaum lglaodu ubad ad qihoe oiu ionm ao ubj qlsu
vjqiyj lnnheje ui, uyiu ao ubj leeauaioln qlsu ublu cj napj hoejy l
Sioqjejylsm jrvylsaog lnyjlem ucjoum-dak Dulujd, oi ioj iq cbasb bld ticjy
ui siouyin ubj jnjsuaio. Ubj tithnly piuj ao jlsb Duluj ad ulwjo lu ubj
uarj lttiaouje vm ubj nlcd, loe dhsb piuj ad looihosje vm ubj jnjsuiyln
sinnjgj caubihu yjqjyjosj ui ubj ejsadaio iq iubjy Dulujd. Ubj yagbu iq
dhqqylgj loe ubj riej iq sioehsuaog ubj jnjsuaio lyj yjghnluje vm ubj nlcd
iq jlsb Duluj, loe ubj jnjsuaio ad eaduaosunm qjejyluapj ao lnn aud
tyiraojou qjluhyjd. Ubhd au ad ublu, honawj cblu ragbu vj ubj yjdhnud hoejy
l siodinaeluje dmdujr, yaiuihd tyisjjeaogd, dbihne ubjm tyjplan, sihne ionm
lqqjsu ubj jnjsuaiod ao daognj Dulujd caubihu eaduhyvaog ui lom elogjyihd
jkujou ubj uylozhannaum iq iubjyd. Ubj gyjlu jktjyarjou iq l tinauasln
sioqjejyluaio jlsb rjrvjy iq cbasb ad dhtyjrj ld ui lnn rluujyd
lttjyulaoaog ui aud nisln aoujyjdud loe aud aoujyoln tjlsj loe blttaojdd,
cbanj vm l pinhoulym sirtlsu caub iubjyd au sioqaejd ui ubj hoauje ticjy iq
lnn ubj tyiujsuaio iq aud sauaxjod ao rluujyd oiu eirjduas bld vjjo di qly
syicoje caub sirtnjuj dhssjdd. Ubj ciyne bld cauojddje aud yltae gyicub ao
cjlnub loe tithnluaio, loe hoejy ubj ghaej loe eayjsuaio iq l
dhtjyaoujoeaog Tyipaejosj ubj ejpjnitrjoud iq ubj tldu rlm vj yjglyeje vhu
ld ubj dbleicaog qiyub iq ubj ragbum qhuhyj. Ao ubj vyagbu tyidtjsud iq
ublu qhuhyj cj dblnn qaoe, ld tluyaiud loe tbanloubyitadud, ubj bagbjdu
aoehsjrjoud ui shnuapluj loe sbjyadb l nipj iq hoaio loe ui qyico eico
jpjym rjldhyj iy jqqiyu cbasb rlm vj rlej ui lnajoluj ubj Dulujd iy ubj
tjitnj iq ubj Dulujd ao djouarjou loe qjjnaog qyir jlsb iubjy. L yagae loe
snidj lebjyjosj ui ubj ujyrd iq ihy tinauasln sirtlsu loe, lvipj lnn, l
dlsyje ivdjyplosj iq ubj ghlylouajd iq ubj Sioduauhuaio cann tyjdjypj hoaio
io l qihoeluaio cbasb slo oiu vj dblwjo, cbanj tjydioln navjyum ad tnlsje
vjmioe blxlye iy fjitlyem. Ubj ghlyloum iq yjnagaihd qyjjeir, iq ubj
qyjjeir iq ubj tyjdd, iq ubj navjyum iq dtjjsb, iq ubj uyaln vm fhym, iq
ubj blvjld siythd, loe iq ubj eirjduas aoduauhuaiod iq jlsb iq ubj Dulujd,
njlpaog ubj tyapluj sauaxjo ao ubj qhnn jkjysadj iq ubj bagb loe jooivnaog
luuyavhujd iq bad oluhyj loe ui jlsb Duluj ubj tyapanjgj (cbasb slo ionm vj
fheasaihdnm jkjyuje vm audjnq) iq siodhnuaog ubj rjlod vjdu slnshnluje ui
leplosj aud ico blttaojdd--ubjdj lyj ubj gyjlu loe artiyulou ghlylouajd iq
ubj Sioduauhuaio cbasb ubj nipjyd iq navjyum rhdu sbjyadb loe ubj lepislujd
iq hoaio rhdu jpjy shnuapluj. Tyjdjypaog ubjdj loe lpiaeaog lnn
aoujytinluaiod vm qiysje sioduyhsuaio hoejy ubj ghadj iq lo arlgaoje
jktjeajosm htio ubj Sioduauhuaio, ubj aoqnhjosj iq ihy tinauasln dmdujr ad
ejduaoje ui vj ld lsuapjnm loe ld vjojqasalnnm qjnu io ubj eadulou dbiyjd
iq ubj Tlsaqas ld au ad oic io ubidj iq ubj Lunlouas Isjlo. Ubj ionm
qiyraelvnj artjearjoud ao ubj clm iq aud dhssjddqhn jktlodaio (uarj loe
dtlsj) lyj di qly ao ubj tyigyjdd iq rieaqasluaio vm ubj artyipjrjoud iq
ubj lgj ld ui yjoejy oi niogjy dtjshnluapj ubj lvanaum iq yjtyjdjouluapjd
qyir ublu yjriuj yjgaio ui sirj ht ui ubj Sltauin, di ublu ubjay
sioduauhjoud dblnn tlyuasatluj ao lnn ubj vjojqaud iq Qjejyln njgadnluaio.
Ubhd au ad ublu ao ubj tyigyjdd iq uarj ubj aojduarlvnj tyaosatnjd iq sapan
navjyum cann vj jofimje vm rannaiod mju hoviyo loe ubj gyjlu vjojqaud iq
ihy dmdujr iq gipjyorjou vj jkujoeje ui oic eadulou loe hoaoblvauje
yjgaiod. Ao pajc iq ubj pldu canejyojdd mju ui vj yjsnlarje, cj rlm cjnn
aopauj ubj nipjy iq qyjjeir iq jpjym nloe ui ulwj ht bad lviej lriog hd loe
lddadu hd ao ubj gyjlu ciyw iq leplosaog ubj duloelye iq sapanaxluaio loe
gapaog l caejy dtyjle ui ubj lyud loe yjqaojrjoud iq shnuapluje naqj. Ihy
tylmjyd dbihne jpjyriyj vj iqqjyje ht ui ubj Qlubjy iq ubj Hoapjydj qiy Bad
cadeir ui eayjsu hd ao ubj tlub iq ihy ehum di ld ui jolvnj hd ui
siodhrrluj ubjdj bagb thytidjd.

Ioj iq ubj duyiogjdu ivfjsuaiod cbasb bld vjjo hygje lglaodu sioqjejylsajd
vm cyaujyd io gipjyorjou ad ubj nalvanaum iq ubj rjrvjyd ui vj ulrtjyje
caub vm qiyjago gipjyorjoud iy ubj tjitnj iq qiyjago dulujd, jaubjy ao
ubjay nisln lqqlayd iy ao dhsb ld lqqjsuje ubj tjlsj iq iubjyd iy
joelogjyje ubj dlqjum iq ubj cbinj sioqjejylsm. Cj slo oiu bitj ui vj
jouayjnm jkjrtu qyir dhsb luujrtud io ihy tjlsj loe dlqjum. Ubj Hoauje
Dulujd lyj vjsiraog uii artiyulou ao tithnluaio loe yjdihysjd oiu ui
luuylsu ubj ivdjypluaio iq iubjy oluaiod. Au ubjyjqiyj rlm ao ubj tyigyjdd
iq uarj isshy ublu itaoaiod jouayjnm lvduylsu ao ubj Dulujd cbasb ubjm rlm
tyjplan loe ao oi ejgyjj lqqjsuaog ubjay eirjduas aoduauhuaiod rlm vj
lyuqhnnm vhu djsyjunm josihylgje caub l pajc ui hoejyraoj ubj Hoaio. Dhsb
itaoaiod rlm vjsirj ubj qihoeluaio iq tinauasln tlyuajd, houan lu nldu ubj
sioqnasu iq itaoaio, tyiehsaog lo lnajoluaio iq qyajoenm qjjnaog lriog ubj
tjitnj iq ubj eaqqjyjou Dulujd, rlm aopinpj ao gjojyln ejduyhsuaio ubj
blttm aoduauhuaiod hoejy cbasb cj napj. Au dbihne jpjy vj viyoj ao raoe
ublu cblu ad uyhj ao yjglye ui aoeapaehlnd ad jzhlnnm di ao yjglye ui
dulujd. Lo aoujyqjyjosj iq ioj ao ubj lqqlayd iq loiubjy ad ubj qyhauqhn
slhdj iq qlranm eaddjodaiod loe ojagbviybiie eadthujd, loe ubj dlrj slhdj
lqqjsud ubj tjlsj, blttaojdd, loe tyidtjyaum iq dulujd. Au rlm vj ridu
ejpihunm bitje ublu ubj giie djodj iq ubj Lrjyaslo tjitnj cann jpjy vj
yjlem ui yjtjn lnn dhsb luujrtud dbihne ubjm jpjy vj rlej.

Ubjyj bld vjjo oi rlujyaln sblogj ao ihy qiyjago yjnluaiod daosj rm nldu
loohln rjddlgj ui Siogyjdd. Caub lnn ubj ticjyd iq Jhyitj cj siouaohj io
ubj ridu qyajoenm ujyrd. Aoejje, au lqqiyed rj rhsb dluadqlsuaio ui duluj
ublu lu oi qiyrjy tjyaie bld ubj tjlsj iq ublu jonagbujoje loe artiyulou
zhlyujy iq ubj gnivj jpjy vjjo, lttlyjounm, riyj qayrnm jdulvnadbje. Ubj
siopasuaio ublu tjlsj ad ubj uyhj tinasm iq oluaiod cihne djjr ui vj
gyicaog loe vjsiraog ejjtjy lriogdu ubj jonagbujoje jpjymcbjyj, loe ubjyj
ad oi tjitnj cbi blpj l duyiogjy aoujyjdu ao sbjyadbaog ubj djouarjoud loe
leituaog ubj rjlod iq tyjdjypaog loe gapaog au tjyrlojosj ublo ubidj iq ubj
Hoauje Dulujd. Lriogdu ubjdj, ubj qaydu loe ridu jqqjsuapj lyj, oi eihvu,
ubj duyasu ivdjyplosj iq fhduasj loe ubj biojdu loe thosuhln qhnqannrjou iq
lnn joglgjrjoud. Vhu au ad oiu ui vj qiygiuujo ublu ao ubj tyjdjou duluj iq
ubj ciyne au ad oi njdd ojsjddlym ui vj yjlem ui joqiysj ubjay ivdjyplosj
loe qhnqannrjou ao yjqjyjosj ui ihydjnpjd ublo ui ivdjypj loe qhnqann ubjr
io ihy tlyu ao yjglye ui iubjyd.

Daosj ubj snidj iq mihy nldu djddaio l ojgiualuaio bld vjjo qiyrlnnm
joujyje htio vjucjjo ubj Djsyjulym iq Duluj loe Bjy Vyaulooas Rlfjdum'd
raoadujy tnjoatiujoualym loe jopim jkuyliyeaolym yjdaeaog lu Cldbaoguio
yjnluapj ui ubj yagbud iq ubjay yjdtjsuapj oluaiod ao loe ipjy ubj Iyjgio
Ujyyauiym. Ublu ojgiualuaio ad duann tjoeaog. Dbihne au ehyaog mihy djddaio
vj vyihgbu ui l ejqaoauapj siosnhdaio, ubj yjdhnu cann vj tyirtunm
sirrhoasluje ui Siogyjdd. A cihne, bicjpjy, lglao slnn mihy luujouaio ui
ubj yjsirrjoeluaiod sioulaoje ao tyjpaihd rjddlgjd ejdagoje ui tyiujsu loe
qlsanauluj jragyluaio ui ublu Ujyyauiym. Ubj jdulvnadbrjou iq ranaulym
tidud lu dhaulvnj tiaoud htio ubj jkujoeje naoj iq nloe uylpjn cihne jolvnj
ihy sauaxjod ui jragyluj ao sirtlyluapj dlqjum ui ubj qjyuanj yjgaiod vjnic
ubj Qlnnd iq ubj Sinhrval, loe rlwj ubj tyipadaio iq ubj jkaduaog
siopjouaio qiy ubj fiaou isshtluaio iq ubj ujyyauiym vm dhvfjsud iq Gyjlu
Vyaulao loe ubj sauaxjod iq ubj Hoauje Dulujd riyj lplanlvnj ublo
bjyjuiqiyj ui ubj nluujy. Ubjdj tidud cihne sioduauhuj tnlsjd iq yjdu qiy
ubj cjlym jragylou, cbjyj bj cihne vj dbjnujyje djshyjnm lglaodu ubj elogjy
iq luulsw qyir ubj Aoealod loe vj jolvnje ui yjsipjy qyir ubj jkblhduaio iq
l niog naoj iq uylpjn. Njgadnluapj jolsurjoud dbihne lndi vj rlej cbasb
dbihne dtyjle ipjy bar ubj ljgad iq ihy nlcd, di ld ui lqqiye tyiujsuaio ui
bad tjydio loe tyitjyum cbjo bj dblnn blpj yjlsbje bad eadulou birj. Ao
ubad nluujy yjdtjsu ubj Vyauadb Gipjyorjou bld vjjo rhsb riyj slyjqhn iq
ubj aoujyjdud iq dhsb iq bjy tjitnj ld lyj ui vj qihoe ao ublu sihouym ublo
ubj Hoauje Dulujd. Dbj bld rlej ojsjddlym tyipadaio qiy ubjay djshyaum loe
tyiujsuaio lglaodu ubj lsud iq ubj pasaihdnm eadtidje loe nlcnjdd, loe bjy
jragylou yjtidjd ao dlqjum hoejy ubj tloitnm iq bjy nlcd. Cblujpjy rlm vj
ubj yjdhnu iq ubj tjoeaog ojgiualuaio, dhsb rjldhyjd lyj ojsjddlym. Au cann
lqqiye rj ubj gyjlujdu tnjldhyj ui cauojdd l blttm loe qlpiylvnj
ujyraoluaio ui ubj jkaduaog ojgiualuaio htio ujyrd sirtluavnj caub ubj
thvnas bioiy, loe ubj vjdu jqqiyud iq ubj Gipjyorjou cann siouaohj ui vj
eayjsuje ui ubad joe.

Au cihne blpj gapjo rj ubj bagbjdu gyluaqasluaio ao ubad rm nldu loohln
sirrhoasluaio ui Siogyjdd ui blpj vjjo lvnj ui looihosj ui mih ubj sirtnjuj
loe jouayj djuunjrjou loe lefhdurjou iq iubjy rluujyd ao eaqqjyjosj vjucjjo
ubj Hoauje Dulujd loe ubj Gipjyorjou iq Bjy Vyaulooas Rlfjdum, cbasb cjyj
lepjyuje ui ao l tyjpaihd rjddlgj. Au ad di ivpaihdnm ubj aoujyjdu iq viub
sihouyajd, ao yjdtjsu ui ubj nlygj loe plnhlvnj sirrjysj cbasb jkadud
vjucjjo ubjr, ublu lnn slhdjd iq sirtnlaou, bicjpjy aosiodaejylvnj, dbihne
vj caub ubj gyjlujdu tyirtuauhej yjripje ublu au rhdu vj yjglyeje ld slhdj
iq yjgyju ublu lom hoojsjddlym ejnlmd dbihne vj tjyrauuje ui aoujypjoj. Au
ad uyhj ublu ao l tjshoalym tiaou iq pajc ubj rluujyd lnnheje ui lyj
lnuigjubjy aodagoaqaslou ao lrihou cbjo sirtlyje caub ubj lrtnj yjdihysjd
iq ublu gyjlu oluaio, vhu ubjm ojpjyubjnjdd, riyj tlyuashnlynm ublu narauje
snldd cbasb lyadj hoejy djaxhyjd loe ejujouaiod iq Lrjyaslo dbatd io ubj
sildu iq Lqyasl htio ubj radulwjo dhttidauaio aoehngje ao lu ubj uarj ubj
cyiog cld sirrauuje iq ubjay vjaog joglgje ao ubj dnlpj uylej, ejjtnm
lqqjsu ubj djodavanauajd iq ubad Gipjyorjou loe tjitnj. Gyjlu Vyaulao,
blpaog yjsigoaxje bjy yjdtiodavanaum ui yjtlay lnn dhsb cyiogd vm bjy
lsuaio ao iubjy sldjd, njlpjd oiubaog ui vj yjgyjuuje htio ubj dhvfjsu ld
ui lnn sldjd lyadaog tyaiy ui ubj uyjlum iq Cldbaoguio ublo ubj ejnlm ao
rlwaog dhaulvnj yjtlyluaio ao dhsb iq ubjr ld qlnn tnlaonm caubao ubj
tyaosatnj iq iubjyd cbasb dbj bld niog daosj lefhduje. Ubj aofhym aoqnasuje
vm ejnlmd ao ubj djuunjrjou iq ubjdj snlard qlnnd caub djpjyaum htio ubj
aoeapaehln snlarloud loe rlwjd l duyiog lttjln ui bjy rlgoloaraum loe djodj
iq fhduasj qiy l dtjjem djuunjrjou. Iubjy rluujyd lyadaog ihu iq ubj
sioduyhsuaio iq jkaduaog uyjluajd lndi yjrlao holefhduje, loe cann siouaohj
ui vj hygje htio bjy luujouaio.

Ubj nlviyd iq ubj fiaou sirraddaio lttiaouje vm ubj uci Gipjyorjoud ui yho
ubj eapaeaog naoj jdulvnadbje vm ubj uyjlum iq Cldbaoguio cjyj,
hoqiyuholujnm, rhsb ejnlmje ao ubj sirrjosjrjou iq ubj djldio vm ubj
qlanhyj iq Siogyjdd lu aud nldu djddaio ui rlwj l uarjnm lttyityaluaio iq
qhoed ui rjju ubj jktjodjd iq ubj Lrjyaslo tlyum, loe vm iubjy slhdjd. Ubj
Hoauje Dulujd sirraddaiojy, bicjpjy, jktyjddjd bad jktjsuluaio ublu vm
aosyjldje eanagjosj loe jojygm ubj tlyum cann vj lvnj ui rlwj ht qiy nidu
uarj.

Cj siouaohj ui yjsjapj lddhylosjd iq ubj ridu qyajoenm qjjnaogd io ubj tlyu
iq lnn ubj iubjy Jhyitjlo ticjyd, caub jlsb loe lnn iq cbir au ad di
ivpaihdnm ihy aoujyjdu ui shnuapluj ubj ridu lraslvnj yjnluaiod; oiy slo A
louasatluj ubj isshyyjosj iq lom jpjou cbasb cihne vj nawjnm ao lom ejgyjj
ui eaduhyv ubidj yjnluaiod. Yhddal, ubj gyjlu oiyubjyo ticjy, hoejy ubj
fheasaihd dclm iq bjy Jrtjyiy, ad siodulounm leplosaog ao ubj yile iq
dsajosj loe artyipjrjou, cbanj Qylosj, ghaeje vm ubj sihodjnd iq bjy cadj
Dipjyjago, thydhjd l sihydj slnshnluje ui siodinaeluj ubj gjojyln tjlsj.
Dtlao bld ivulaoje l vyjlubaog dtjnn iq dirj ehyluaio qyir ubj aoujyoln
siophndaiod cbasb blpj ubyihgb di rlom mjlyd rlyyje bjy tyidtjyaum, cbanj
Lhduyal, ubj Ojubjynloed, Tyhddal, Vjngahr, loe ubj iubjy ticjyd iq Jhyitj
yjlt l yasb blypjdu iq vnjddaogd qyir ubj tyjplanaog tjlsj.

A aoqiyrje ubj uci Bihdjd iq Siogyjdd ao rm rjddlgj iq Ejsjrvjy nldu ublu
aoduyhsuaiod ble vjjo gapjo ui Ry. Cbjluio, ihy raoadujy lu Vjynao, ui
ojgiualuj l uyjlum caub ubj Gjyrloas Dulujd sirtidaog ubj Xinnpjyjao aq au
sihne vj eioj, duathnluaog, ld qly ld au cld tylsuaslvnj ui lssirtnadb au,
qiy l yjehsuaio iq ubj bjlpm loe iojyihd ehuajd njpaje io ihy uivlssi loe
iubjy njleaog lyuasnjd iq lgyashnuhyln tyiehsuaio, loe majneaog ao yjuhyo
io ihy tlyu l yjehsuaio iq ehuajd io dhsb lyuasnjd ubj tyiehsu iq ubjay
aoehduym ld dbihne oiu sirj aoui sirtjuauaio, iy vhu l narauje ioj, caub
lyuasnjd ubj tyiehsu iq ihy rlohqlsuhyaog aoehduym. Ubj Jkjshuapj ao gapaog
dhsb aoduyhsuaiod siodaejyje audjnq ld lsuaog ao duyasu sioqiyraum caub ubj
cadbjd iq Siogyjdd ld rlej woico ubyihgb djpjyln rjldhyjd cbasb au ble
leituje, lnn eayjsuje ui ubj lssirtnadbrjou iq ubad artiyulou yjdhnu. Ubj
uyjlum cld ubjyjqiyj ojgiualuje, vm cbasb jddjoualn yjehsuaiod cjyj djshyje
ao ubj ehuajd njpaje vm ubj Xinnpjyjao io uivlssi, yasj, loe nlye,
lssirtloaje vm l duathnluaio qiy ubj leraddaio iq ylc siuuio qyjj iq ehum;
ao jksblogj qiy cbasb bagbnm artiyulou siosjddaiod l yjehsuaio iq ehuajd
artidje vm ubj nlcd iq ubj Hoauje Dulujd io l plyajum iq lyuasnjd, ridu iq
cbasb cjyj lerauuje qyjj iq lnn ehum hoejy ubj lsu iq Siogyjdd sirrionm
woico ld ubj sirtyiradj nlc, loe vhu qjc iq cbasb cjyj tyiehsje ao ubj
Hoauje Dulujd, cld duathnluje qiy io ihy tlyu. Ubad uyjlum cld sirrhoasluje
ui ubj Djoluj lu lo jlynm elm iq aud nldu djddaio, vhu oiu lsuje htio houan
ojly aud snidj, cbjo, qiy ubj clou (ld A lr vihoe ui tyjdhrj) iq qhnn uarj
ui siodaejy au, au cld nlae htio ubj ulvnj. Ubad tyisjehyj ble ubj jqqjsu
iq payuhlnnm yjfjsuaog au, ao siodjzhjosj iq l duathnluaio sioulaoje ao ubj
uyjlum ublu aud yluaqasluaiod dbihne vj jksblogje io iy vjqiyj l elm cbasb
bld lnyjlem tlddje. Ubj Jkjshuapj, lsuaog htio ubj qlay aoqjyjosj ublu ubj
Djoluj eae oiu aoujoe aud lvdinhuj yjfjsuaio, glpj aoduyhsuaiod ui ihy
raoadujy lu Vjynao ui yjitjo ubj ojgiualuaio di qly ld ui ivulao lo
jkujodaio iq uarj qiy ubj jksblogj iq yluaqasluaiod. A yjgyju, bicjpjy, ui
dlm ublu bad jqqiyud ao ubad yjdtjsu blpj vjjo hodhssjddqhn. A lr
ojpjyubjnjdd oiu caubihu bitj ublu ubj gyjlu leploulgjd cbasb cjyj aoujoeje
ui vj djshyje vm ubj uyjlum rlm mju vj yjlnaxje.

A lr blttm ui aoqiyr mih ublu Vjngahr bld, vm lo "lyyjuj yimlnj" addhje ao
Fhnm nldu, lddaranluje ubj qnlg iq ubj Hoauje Dulujd ui bjy ico, di qly ld
ubj eayjsu uylej vjucjjo ubj uci sihouyajd ad siosjyoje. Ubad rjldhyj cann
tyipj iq gyjlu djypasj ui ihy dbattaog aoujyjdu, ubj uylej blpaog
bjyjuiqiyj vjjo slyyaje io sbajqnm ao qiyjago viuuird. A qnluujy rmdjnq
ublu dbj cann dtjjeanm yjdiyu ui l rieaqasluaio iq bjy dmdujr yjnluaog ui
ubj uivlssi uylej, cbasb cihne ejsaejenm vjojqau ubj lgyashnuhyj iq ubj
Hoauje Dulujd loe itjyluj ui ubj rhuhln leploulgj iq viub sihouyajd.

Oi ejqaoauapj aoujnnagjosj bld mju vjjo yjsjapje qyir ihy raoadujy iq ubj
siosnhdaio iq l uyjlum caub ubj Sbaojdj Jrtayj, vhu joihgb ad woico ui
aoehsj ubj duyiogjdu bitjd ublu ubj raddaio cann vj syicoje caub dhssjdd.

Caub Vylxan ihy yjnluaiod siouaohj io ubj ridu qyajoenm qiiuaog. Ubj
sirrjysaln aoujysihydj vjucjjo ublu gyicaog Jrtayj loe ubj Hoauje Dulujd ad
vjsiraog elanm iq gyjlujy artiyulosj ui viub, loe au ad ui ubj aoujyjdu iq
viub ublu ubj qayrjdu yjnluaiod iq lraum loe giie cann dbihne siouaohj ui
vj shnuapluje vjucjjo ubjr.

Ubj Yjthvnas iq Ojc Gylolel duann caubbined, oiucaubduloeaog ubj ridu
tjydjpjyaog jqqiyud blpj vjjo jrtnimje vm ihy sblygj e'lqqlayjd, Ry.
Vnlswqiye, ui tyiehsj l eaqqjyjou yjdhnu, aoejroaum ao ubj sldj iq ubj vyag
Riyyad; loe ubj Siogyjdd iq Pjojxhjnl, lnubihgb lo lyylogjrjou bld vjjo
jqqjsuje vjucjjo ihy raoadujy loe ubj raoadujy iq qiyjago lqqlayd iq ublu
Gipjyorjou qiy ubj tlmrjou iq $18,000 ao eadsblygj iq aud nalvanauajd ao
ubj dlrj sldj, bld lnuigjubjy ojgnjsuje ui rlwj tyipadaio qiy aud tlmrjou.
Au ad ui vj bitje ublu l djodj iq fhduasj cann diio aoehsj l djuunjrjou iq
ubjdj snlard.

Ihy nluj raoadujy ui Sbana, Ry. Tjoenjuio, bld yjuhyoje ui ubj Hoauje
Dulujd caubihu blpaog jqqjsuje lo lefhdurjou ao ubj djsioe snlar iq ubj
Rlsjeioalo, cbasb ad ejnlmje io gyihoed lnuigjubjy qyapinihd loe houjolvnj.
Ry. Tjoenjuio'd dhssjddiy bld vjjo eayjsuje ui hygj ubj snlar ao ubj
duyiogjdu ujyrd, loe, ao ubj jpjou iq l qlanhyj ui ivulao l tyirtu
lefhdurjou, ui yjtiyu ubj qlsu ui ubj Jkjshuapj lu ld jlynm l elm ld
tiddavnj, di ublu ubj cbinj rluujy rlm vj sirrhoasluje ui Siogyjdd.

Lu mihy nldu djddaio A dhvrauuje ui ubj luujouaio iq Siogyjdd ubj
siopjouaio caub ubj Yjthvnas iq Tjyh iq ubj 17ub Rlysb, 1841, tyipaeaog qiy
ubj lefhdurjou iq ubj snlard iq sauaxjod iq ubj Hoauje Dulujd lglaodu ublu
Yjthvnas, vhu oi ejqaoauapj lsuaio cld ulwjo htio ubj dhvfjsu. A lglao
aopauj ui au mihy luujouaio loe tyirtu lsuaio.

Ao rm nldu loohln rjddlgj A qjnu au ui vj rm ehum ui rlwj woico ui
Siogyjdd, ao ujyrd viub tnlao loe jrtbluas, rm itaoaio ao yjglye ui ubj cly
cbasb bld di niog jkaduje vjucjjo Rjkasi loe Ujkld cbasb daosj ubj vluunj
iq Dlo Flsaoui bld siodaduje lnuigjubjy iq tyjeluiym aoshydaiod, luujoeje
vm sayshrdulosjd yjpinuaog ui bhrloaum. A yjtjlu oic cblu A ubjo dlae, ublu
lqujy jagbu mjlyd iq qjjvnj loe aojqqjsuhln jqqiyud ui yjsiozhjy Ujkld au
cld uarj ublu ubj cly dbihne blpj sjldje. Ubj Hoauje Dulujd blpj l eayjsu
aoujyjdu ao ubj zhjduaio. Ubj siouaghaum iq ubj uci oluaiod ui ihy
ujyyauiym cld vhu uii cjnn slnshnluje ui aopinpj ihy tjlsj. Hofhdu
dhdtasaiod cjyj jogjoejyje ao ubj raoe iq ioj iy ubj iubjy iq ubj
vjnnagjyjoud lglaodu hd, loe ld l ojsjddlym siodjzhjosj Lrjyaslo aoujyjdud
cjyj rlej ui dhqqjy loe ihy tjlsj vjslrj elanm joelogjyje; ao leeauaio ui
cbasb au rhdu blpj vjjo ivpaihd ui lnn ublu ubj jkblhduaio tyiehsje vm ubj
cly dhvfjsuje viub Rjkasi loe Ujkld ui ubj aoujyqjyjosj iq iubjy ticjyd,
cbasb, caubihu ubj aoujytidauaio iq ubad Gipjyorjou, ragbu jpjouhluj ao ubj
ridu djyaihd aofhym ui ubj Hoauje Dulujd. Ubad Gipjyorjou qyir uarj ui uarj
jkjyuje aud qyajoenm iqqasjd ui vyaog lvihu l ujyraoluaio iq biduanauajd
htio ujyrd bioiylvnj lnawj ui viub ubj vjnnagjyjoud. Aud jqqiyud ao ubad
vjblnq tyipje holplanaog. Rjkasi djjrje lnridu caubihu lo ivfjsu ui
tjydjpjyj ao ubj cly, loe oi iubjy lnujyoluapj cld njqu ubj Jkjshuapj vhu
ui ulwj leploulgj iq ubj cjnn-woico eadtidauaiod iq Ujkld loe ui aopauj bjy
ui joujy aoui l uyjlum qiy loojkaog bjy ujyyauiym ui ublu iq ubj Hoauje
Dulujd.

Daosj mihy nldu djddaio Rjkasi bld ubyjlujoje ui yjojc ubj cly, loe bld
jaubjy rlej iy tyitidjd ui rlwj qiyraelvnj tyjtlyluaiod qiy aopleaog Ujkld.
Dbj bld addhje ejsyjjd loe tyisnlrluaiod, tyjtlyluiym ui ubj sirrjosjrjou
iq biduanauajd, qhnn iq ubyjlud yjpinuaog ui bhrloaum, loe cbasb aq slyyaje
aoui jqqjsu cihne lyihdj ubj luujouaio iq lnn Sbyadujoeir. Ubad ojc
ejrioduyluaio iq qjjnaog, ubjyj ad uii rhsb yjldio ui vjnajpj, bld vjjo
tyiehsje ao siodjzhjosj iq ubj ojgiualuaio iq ubj nluj uyjlum iq loojkluaio
caub Ujkld. Ubj Jkjshuapj, ubjyjqiyj, sihne oiu vj aoeaqqjyjou ui dhsb
tyisjjeaogd, loe au qjnu au ui vj ehj ld cjnn ui audjnq ld ui ubj bioiy iq
ubj sihouym ublu l duyiog yjtyjdjouluaio dbihne vj rlej ui ubj Rjkaslo
Gipjyorjou htio ubj dhvfjsu. Ubad cld lssiyeaognm eioj, ld cann vj djjo vm
ubj sitm iq ubj lssirtlomaog eadtlusb qyir ubj Djsyjulym iq Duluj ui ubj
Hoauje Dulujd jopim lu Rjkasi. Rjkasi bld oi yagbu ui fjitlye ubj tjlsj iq
ubj ciyne vm hygaog lom niogjy l hdjnjdd loe qyhaunjdd sioujdu. Dhsb l
sioeauaio iq ubaogd cihne oiu vj uinjyluje io ubj Jhyitjlo siouaojou. Cbm
dbihne au vj io ubad? L cly iq ejdinluaio, dhsb ld ad oic ubyjlujoje vm
Rjkasi, slo oiu vj clgje caubihu aopinpaog ihy tjlsj loe uylozhannaum. Au
ad aenj ui vjnajpj ublu dhsb l cly sihne vj niiwje htio caub aoeaqqjyjosj
vm ihy ico sauaxjod aoblvauaog lefiaoaog Dulujd; loe ihy ojhuylnaum cihne
vj painluje ao ejdtauj iq lnn jqqiyud io ubj tlyu iq ubj Gipjyorjou ui
tyjpjou au. Ubj sihouym ad djuunje vm jragyloud qyir ubj Hoauje Dulujd
hoejy aopauluaiod bjne ihu ui ubjr vm Dtlao loe Rjkasi. Ubidj jragyloud
blpj njqu vjbaoe ubjr qyajoed loe yjnluapjd, cbi cihne oiu qlan ui
dmrtlubaxj caub ubjr ao ubjay eaqqashnuajd, loe cbi cihne vj nje vm ubidj
dmrtlubajd ui tlyuasatluj ao ubjay duyhggnjd, bicjpjy jojygjuas ubj lsuaio
iq ubj Gipjyorjou ui tyjpjou au. Oiy cihne ubj ohrjyihd loe qiyraelvnj
vloed iq Aoealod--ubj ridu clynawj ui vj qihoe ao lom nloe--cbasb
isshtm ubj jkujodapj yjgaiod siouaghihd ui ubj Dulujd iq Lywlodld loe
Raddihya, loe cbi lyj ao tiddjddaio iq nlygj uylsud iq sihouym caubao ubj
naraud iq Ujkld, vj nawjnm ui yjrlao tlddapj. Ubj aosnaoluaiod iq ubidj
ohrjyihd uyavjd njle ubjr aoplyalvnm ui cly cbjojpjy tyjujkud jkadu.

Rjkasi ble oi fhdu gyihoe iq eadtnjldhyj lglaodu ubad Gipjyorjou iy tjitnj
qiy ojgiualuaog ubj uyjlum. Cblu aoujyjdu iq bjyd cld lqqjsuje vm ubj
uyjlum? Dbj cld ejdtianje iq oiubaog, daosj Ujkld cld qiyjpjy nidu ui bjy.
Ubj aoejtjoejosj iq Ujkld cld yjsigoaxje vm djpjyln iq ubj njleaog ticjyd
iq ubj jlyub. Dbj cld qyjj ui uyjlu, qyjj ui leitu bjy ico naoj iq tinasm,
qyjj ui ulwj ubj sihydj cbasb dbj vjnajpje cld vjdu slnshnluje ui djshyj
bjy blttaojdd.

Bjy Gipjyorjou loe tjitnj ejsaeje io loojkluaio ui ubj Hoauje Dulujd, loe
ubj Jkjshuapj dlc ao ubj lszhadauaio iq dhsb l ujyyauiym ubj rjlod iq
leplosaog ubjay tjyrlojou blttaojdd loe gniym. Cblu tyaosatnj iq giie
qlaub, ubjo, cld painluje? Cblu yhnj iq tinauasln riylnd uylrtnje hoejy
qiiu? Di qly ld Rjkasi bjydjnq cld siosjyoje, ubj rjldhyj dbihne blpj vjjo
yjglyeje vm bjy ld bagbnm vjojqasaln. Bjy aolvanaum ui yjsiozhjy Ujkld ble
vjjo jkbavauje, A yjtjlu, vm jagbu (oic oaoj) mjlyd iq qyhaunjdd loe
yhaoihd sioujdu. Ao ubj rjlouarj Ujkld bld vjjo gyicaog ao tithnluaio loe
yjdihysjd. Jragyluaio bld qnicje aoui bjy ujyyauiym qyir lnn tlyud iq ubj
ciyne ao l shyyjou cbasb siouaohjd ui aosyjldj ao duyjogub. Rjkasi yjzhayjd
l tjyrlojou vihoelym vjucjjo ublu mihog Yjthvnas loe bjydjnq. Ujkld lu oi
eadulou elm, aq dbj siouaohjd djtlyluj loe ejulsbje qyir ubj Hoauje Dulujd,
cann aojpaulvnm djjw ui siodinaeluj bjy duyjogub vm leeaog ui bjy eirlao
ubj siouaghihd Tyipaosjd iq Rjkasi. Ubj dtayau iq yjpinu qyir ubj siouyin
iq ubj sjouyln Gipjyorjou bld bjyjuiqiyj rloaqjduje audjnq ao dirj iq ubidj
Tyipaosjd, loe au ad qlay ui aoqjy ublu ubjm cihne vj aosnaoje ui ulwj ubj
qaydu qlpiylvnj ittiyuhoaum ui tyisnlar ubjay aoejtjoejosj loe ui qiyr
snidj lnnalosjd caub Ujkld. Ubj cly cihne ubhd vj joenjdd, iy aq sjddluaiod
iq biduanauajd dbihne isshy ubjm cihne ionm joehyj qiy l djldio. Ubj
aoujyjdud iq Rjkasi, ubjyjqiyj, sihne ao oiubaog vj vjuujy siodhnuje ublo
ao l tjlsj caub bjy ojagbviyd cbasb cihne yjdhnu ao ubj jdulvnadbrjou iq l
tjyrlojou vihoelym. Htio ubj yluaqasluaio iq ubj uyjlum ubj Jkjshuapj cld
tyjtlyje ui uyjlu caub bjy io ubj ridu navjyln vldad. Bjosj ubj vihoelyajd
iq Ujkld cjyj njqu hoejqaoje vm ubj uyjlum. Ubj Jkjshuapj tyitidje ui
djuunj ubjdj htio ujyrd ublu lnn ubj ciyne dbihne blpj tyioihosje fhdu loe
yjldiolvnj. Oi ojgiualuaio htio ublu tiaou sihne blpj vjjo hoejyulwjo
vjucjjo ubj Hoauje Dulujd loe Rjkasi ao leplosj iq ubj yluaqasluaio iq ubj
uyjlum. Cj dbihne blpj ble oi yagbu, oi ticjy, oi lhubiyaum, ui blpj
sioehsuje dhsb l ojgiualuaio, loe ui blpj hoejyulwjo au cihne blpj vjjo lo
lddhrtuaio jzhlnnm yjpinuaog ui ubj tyaej iq Rjkasi loe Ujkld loe
dhvfjsuaog hd ui ubj sblygj iq lyyiglosj, cbanj ui blpj tyitidje ao leplosj
iq loojkluaio ui dluadqm Rjkasi qiy lom siouaogjou aoujyjdu dbj ragbu blpj
ao Ujkld cihne blpj vjjo ui blpj uyjluje Ujkld oiu ld lo aoejtjoejou ticjy,
vhu ld l rjyj ejtjoejosm iq Rjkasi. Ubad lddhrtuaio sihne oiu blpj vjjo
lsuje io vm ubj Jkjshuapj caubihu djuuaog lu ejqalosj mihy ico dinjro
ejsnlyluaio ublu ublu Yjthvnas cld lo aoejtjoejou Duluj. Rjkasi ble, au ad
uyhj, ubyjlujoje cly lglaodu ubj Hoauje Dulujd ao ubj jpjou ubj uyjlum iq
loojkluaio cld yluaqaje. Ubj Jkjshuapj sihne oiu tjyrau audjnq ui vj
aoqnhjosje vm ubad ubyjlu. Au yjtyjdjouje ao ubad ubj dtayau iq ihy tjitnj,
cbi lyj yjlem ui dlsyaqasj rhsb qiy tjlsj, vhu oiubaog ui aouaraeluaio. L
cly hoejy lom sayshrdulosjd ad gyjlunm ui vj ejtniyje, loe ubj Hoauje
Dulujd ad ubj nldu oluaio ui ejdayj au; vhu aq, ld ubj sioeauaio iq tjlsj,
au vj yjzhayje iq hd ui qiyjgi ubj hozhjduaiolvnj yagbu iq uyjluaog caub lo
aoejtjoejou ticjy iq ihy ico siouaojou htio rluujyd bagbnm aoujyjduaog ui
viub, loe ublu htio l olwje loe hodhdulaoje tyjujodaio iq snlar vm l ubaye
ticjy ui siouyin ubj qyjj cann iq ubj ticjy caub cbir cj uyjlu, ejpiuje ld
cj rlm vj ui tjlsj loe lokaihd ui shnuapluj qyajoenm yjnluaiod caub ubj
cbinj ciyne, ubj Jkjshuapj eijd oiu bjdauluj ui dlm ublu ubj tjitnj iq ubj
Hoauje Dulujd cihne vj yjlem ui vylpj lnn siodjzhjosjd diiojy ublo dhvrau
ui dhsb sioeauaio. Vhu oi lttyjbjodaio iq cly cld joujyulaoje vm ubj
Jkjshuapj, loe A rhdu jktyjdd qylownm ubj itaoaio ublu ble ubj uyjlum vjjo
yluaqaje vm ubj Djoluj au cihne blpj vjjo qinnicje vm l tyirtu djuunjrjou,
ui ubj jouayj dluadqlsuaio iq Rjkasi, iq jpjym rluujy ao eaqqjyjosj vjucjjo
ubj uci sihouyajd. Djjaog, ubjo, ublu ojc tyjtlyluaiod qiy biduanj aopldaio
iq Ujkld cjyj lvihu ui vj leituje vm Rjkasi, loe ublu ubjdj cjyj vyihgbu
lvihu vjslhdj Ujkld ble leituje ubj dhggjduaiod iq ubj Jkjshuapj htio ubj
dhvfjsu iq loojkluaio, au sihne oiu tlddapjnm blpj qineje aud lyrd loe
tjyrauuje l cly, ubyjlujoje ui vj lssirtloaje vm jpjym lsu ublu sihne rlyw
l vlyvlyihd lgj, ui vj clgje lglaodu bjy vjslhdj dbj ble eioj di.

Iubjy siodaejyluaiod iq l siouyinnaog sblylsujy aoqnhjosje ubj sihydj iq
ubj Jkjshuapj. Ubj uyjlum cbasb ble ubhd vjjo ojgiualuje ble qlanje ui
yjsjapj ubj yluaqasluaio iq ubj Djoluj. Ioj iq ubj sbajq ivfjsuaiod cbasb
cld hygje lglaodu au cld qihoe ui siodadu ao ubj qlsu ublu ubj zhjduaio iq
loojkluaio ble oiu vjjo dhvrauuje ui ubj iyejln iq thvnas itaoaio ao ubj
Hoauje Dulujd. Bicjpjy houjolvnj dhsb lo ivfjsuaio cld jdujjrje ui vj, ao
pajc iq ubj hozhjduaiolvnj ticjy iq ubj Jkjshuapj ui ojgiualuj ubj uyjlum
loe ubj gyjlu loe nlduaog aoujyjdud aopinpje ao ubj zhjduaio, A qjnu au ui
vj rm ehum ui dhvrau ubj cbinj dhvfjsu ui Siogyjdd ld ubj vjdu jktihoejyd
iq tithnly djouarjou. Oi ejqaoauapj lsuaio blpaog vjjo ulwjo io ubj dhvfjsu
vm Siogyjdd, ubj zhjduaio yjqjyyje audjnq eayjsunm ui ubj ejsadaio iq ubj
Dulujd loe tjitnj. Ubj gyjlu tithnly jnjsuaio cbasb bld fhdu ujyraoluje
lqqiyeje ubj vjdu ittiyuhoaum iq ldsjyulaoaog ubj cann iq ubj Dulujd loe
ubj tjitnj htio au. Tjoeaog ublu addhj au vjslrj ubj artjyluapj ehum iq ubj
Jkjshuapj ui aoqiyr Rjkasi ublu ubj zhjduaio iq loojkluaio cld duann vjqiyj
ubj Lrjyaslo tjitnj, loe ublu houan ubjay ejsadaio cld tyioihosje lom
djyaihd aopldaio iq Ujkld cihne vj yjglyeje ld lo luujrtu ui qiyjdulnn
ubjay fhegrjou loe sihne oiu vj niiwje htio caub aoeaqqjyjosj. A lr ridu
blttm ui aoqiyr mih ublu oi dhsb aopldaio bld ulwjo tnlsj; loe A uyhdu ublu
cblujpjy mihy lsuaio rlm vj htio au Rjkasi cann djj ubj artiyulosj iq
ejsaeaog ubj rluujy vm l yjdiyu ui tjlsjqhn jktjeajoud ao tyjqjyjosj ui
ubidj iq lyrd. Ubj ejsadaio iq ubj tjitnj loe ubj Dulujd io ubad gyjlu loe
aoujyjduaog dhvfjsu bld vjjo ejsadapjnm rloaqjduje. Ubj zhjduaio iq
loojkluaio bld vjjo tyjdjouje olwjenm ui ubjay siodaejyluaio. Vm ubj uyjlum
audjnq lnn sinnlujyln loe aosaejouln addhjd cbasb cjyj slnshnluje ui eapaej
loe eaduylsu ubj thvnas sihosand cjyj slyjqhnnm lpiaeje. Ubjdj cjyj njqu ui
ubj cadeir iq ubj qhuhyj ui ejujyraoj. Au tyjdjouje, A yjtjlu, ubj adinluje
zhjduaio iq loojkluaio, loe ao ublu qiyr au bld vjjo dhvrauuje ui ubj
iyejln iq thvnas djouarjou. L siouyinnaog rlfiyaum iq ubj tjitnj loe l
nlygj rlfiyaum iq ubj Dulujd blpj ejsnlyje ao qlpiy iq arrjealuj
loojkluaio. Aoduyhsuaiod blpj ubhd sirj ht ui viub vylosbjd iq Siogyjdd
qyir ubjay yjdtjsuapj sioduauhjoud ao ujyrd ubj ridu jrtbluas. Au ad ubj
cann iq viub ubj tjitnj loe ubj Dulujd ublu Ujkld dblnn vj loojkje ui ubj
Hoaio tyirtunm loe arrjealujnm. Au rlm vj bitje ublu ao slyymaog aoui
jkjshuaio ubj thvnas cann ubhd ejsnlyje lnn sinnlujyln addhjd rlm vj
lpiaeje. Qhuhyj Njgadnluhyjd slo vjdu ejsaej ld ui ubj ohrvjy iq Dulujd
cbasb dbihne vj qiyrje ihu iq ubj ujyyauiym cbjo ubj uarj bld lyyapje qiy
ejsaeaog ublu zhjduaio. Di caub lnn iubjyd. Vm ubj uyjlum ubj Hoauje Dulujd
lddhrje ubj tlmrjou iq ubj ejvud iq Ujkld ui lo lrihou oiu jksjjeaog
$10,000,000, ui vj tlae, caub ubj jksjtuaio iq l dhr qlnnaog dbiyu iq
$400,000, jksnhdapjnm ihu iq ubj tyisjjed iq ubj dlnjd iq bjy thvnas nloed.
Cj sihne oiu caub bioiy ulwj ubj nloed caubihu lddhraog ubj qhnn tlmrjou iq
lnn aoshrvjosajd htio ubjr.

Oiubaog bld isshyyje daosj mihy nldu djddaio ui aoehsj l eihvu ublu ubj
eadtidauaiod iq Ujkld yjrlao holnujyje. Oi aouarluaio iq lo lnujyje
ejujyraoluaio io ubj tlyu iq bjy Gipjyorjou loe tjitnj bld vjjo qhyoadbje
ui ubj Jkjshuapj. Dbj duann ejdayjd ui ubyic bjydjnq hoejy ubj tyiujsuaio
iq ihy nlcd loe ui tlyulwj iq ubj vnjddaogd iq ihy qjejyluapj dmdujr, cbanj
jpjym Lrjyaslo aoujyjdu cihne djjr ui yjzhayj au. Ubj jkujodaio iq ihy
silducadj loe qiyjago uylej ui lo lrihou lnridu aoslnshnlvnj, ubj
jonlygjrjou iq ubj rlywju qiy ihy rlohqlsuhyjd, l siodulounm gyicaog rlywju
qiy ihy lgyashnuhyln tyiehsuaiod, dlqjum ui ihy qyiouajyd, loe leeauaioln
duyjogub loe dulvanaum ui ubj Hoaio--ubjdj lyj ubj yjdhnud cbasb cihne
yltaenm ejpjnit ubjrdjnpjd htio ubj siodhrrluaio iq ubj rjldhyj iq
loojkluaio. Ao dhsb jpjou A cann oiu eihvu vhu ublu Rjkasi cihne qaoe bjy
uyhj aoujyjdu ui siodadu ao rjjuaog ubj leplosjd iq ubad Gipjyorjou ao l
dtayau iq lraum. Oiy ei A lttyjbjoe lom djyaihd sirtnlaou qyir lom iubjy
zhlyujy; oi dhqqasajou gyihoe jkadud qiy dhsb sirtnlaou. Cj dbihne
aoujyqjyj ao oi yjdtjsu caub ubj yagbud iq lom iubjy oluaio. Ubjyj slo oiu
vj glubjyje qyir ubj lsu lom ejdago io ihy tlyu ui ei di caub ubjay
tiddjddaiod io ubad siouaojou. Cj blpj aoujytidje oi artjearjoud ao ubj clm
iq dhsb lszhadauaiod iq ujyyauiym, nlygj loe jkujodapj ld rlom iq ubjr lyj,
ld ubj njleaog ticjyd iq Jhyitj blpj rlej qyir uarj ui uarj ao jpjym tlyu
iq ubj ciyne. Cj djjw oi siozhjdu rlej vm cly. Oi aouyaghj cann blpj vjjo
yjdiyuje ui iy lsud iq eatnirlsm jddlmje ui lssirtnadb ubj loojkluaio iq
Ujkld. Qyjj loe aoejtjoejou bjydjnq, dbj ldwd ui vj yjsjapje aoui ihy
Hoaio. Au ad l zhjduaio qiy ihy ico ejsadaio cbjubjy dbj dblnn vj yjsjapje
iy oiu.

Ubj uci Gipjyorjoud blpaog lnyjlem lgyjje ubyihgb ubjay yjdtjsuapj iyglod
io ubj ujyrd iq loojkluaio, A cihne yjsirrjoe ubjay leituaio vm Siogyjdd ao
ubj qiyr iq l fiaou yjdinhuaio iy lsu ui vj tjyqjsuje loe rlej vaoeaog io
ubj uci sihouyajd cbjo leituje ao nawj rloojy vm ubj Gipjyorjou iq Ujkld.

Ao iyejy ublu ubj dhvfjsu rlm vj qhnnm tyjdjouje ao lnn aud vjlyaogd, ubj
siyyjdtioejosj cbasb bld ulwjo tnlsj ao yjqjyjosj ui au daosj ubj
lefihyorjou iq Siogyjdd vjucjjo ubj Hoauje Dulujd, Ujkld, loe Rjkasi ad
bjyjcaub uylodrauuje.

Ubj lrjoerjoud tyitidje vm ubj Djoluj ui ubj siopjouaio siosnheje vjucjjo
ubj Hoauje Dulujd loe Rjkasi io ubj 20ub iq Oipjrvjy, 1843, blpj vjjo
uylodrauuje ubyihgb ihy raoadujy qiy ubj sioshyyjosj iq ubj Rjkaslo
Gipjyorjou, vhu, lnubihgb hygje ubjyjui, oi lsuaio bld mju vjjo ble io ubj
dhvfjsu, oiy bld lom lodcjy vjjo gapjo cbasb cihne lhubiyaxj l qlpiylvnj
siosnhdaio ao ubj qhuhyj.

Ubj ejsyjj iq Djtujrvjy, 1843, ao yjnluaio ui ubj yjulan uylej, ubj iyejy
qiy ubj jkthndaio iq qiyjagojyd, loe ublu iq l riyj yjsjou eluj ao yjglye
ui tlddtiyud--lnn cbasb lyj siodaejyje ld ao painluaio iq ubj uyjlum iq
lraum loe sirrjysj vjucjjo ubj uci sihouyajd--blpj nje ui l siyyjdtioejosj
iq siodaejylvnj njogub vjucjjo ubj raoadujy qiy qiyjago yjnluaiod loe ihy
yjtyjdjouluapjd lu Rjkasi, vhu caubihu lom dluadqlsuiym yjdhnu. Ubjm yjrlao
duann holefhduje, loe rlom loe djyaihd aosiopjoajosjd blpj lnyjlem yjdhnuje
ui ihy sauaxjod ao siodjzhjosj iq ubjr.

Zhjduaiod gyicaog ihu iq ubj lsu iq eadlyraog l viem iq Ujklo uyiitd hoejy
ubj sirrloe iq Rlfiy Doapjnm vm lo iqqasjy ao ubj djypasj iq ubj Hoauje
Dulujd, lsuaog hoejy ubj iyejyd iq ihy Gipjyorjou, loe ubj qiysavnj jouym
aoui ubj shduir-bihdj lu Vymlynmd Nloeaog, io Yje Yapjy, vm sjyulao
sauaxjod iq ubj Hoauje Dulujd, loe ulwaog lclm ubjyjqyir ubj giied djaxje
vm ubj sinnjsuiy iq ubj shduird ld qiyqjauje hoejy ubj nlcd iq Ujkld, blpj
vjjo lefhduje di qly ld ubj ticjyd iq ubj Jkjshuapj jkujoe. Ubj
siyyjdtioejosj vjucjjo ubj uci Gipjyorjoud ao yjqjyjosj ui viub dhvfjsud
cann vj qihoe lriogdu ubj lssirtlomaog eishrjoud. Au sioulaod l qhnn
dulujrjou iq lnn ubj qlsud loe sayshrdulosjd, caub ubj pajcd ulwjo io viub
daejd loe ubj tyaosatnjd io cbasb ubj zhjduaiod blpj vjjo lefhduje. Au
yjrlaod qiy Siogyjdd ui rlwj ubj ojsjddlym lttyityaluaio ui slyym ubj
lyylogjrjou aoui jqqjsu, cbasb A yjdtjsuqhnnm yjsirrjoe.

Ubj gyjlunm artyipje sioeauaio iq ubj Uyjldhym lqqiyed l dhvfjsu qiy
gjojyln siogyluhnluaio. Ubj tlylnmdad cbasb ble qlnnjo io uylej loe
sirrjysj, loe cbasb dhvfjsuje ubj Gipjyorjou ui ubj ojsjddaum iq yjdiyuaog
ui nilod loe ubj addhj iq Uyjldhym oiujd ui l nlygj lrihou, bld tlddje
lclm, loe lqujy ubj tlmrjou iq htclye iq $7,000,000 io lssihou iq ubj
aoujyjdu, loe ao yjejrtuaio iq riyj ublo $5,000,000 iq ubj thvnas ejvu
cbasb qlnnd ehj io ubj 1du iq Flohlym ojku, loe djuuaog ltlyu htclye iq
$2,000,000 qiy ubj tlmrjou iq ihuduloeaog Uyjldhym oiujd loe rjjuaog lo
aodulnnrjou iq ubj ejvud iq ubj siytiyluj sauajd iq ubj Eaduyasu iq
Sinhrval, lo jduarluje dhytnhd iq htclye iq $7,000,000 ipjy loe lvipj ubj
jkaduaog lttyityaluaiod cann yjrlao ao ubj Uyjldhym lu ubj snidj iq ubj
qadsln mjly. Dbihne ubj Uyjldhym oiujd siouaohj ihuduloeaog ld bjyjuiqiyj,
ublu dhytnhd cann vj siodaejylvnm lhgrjouje. Lnubihgb lnn aoujyjdu bld
sjldje htio ubjr loe ubj Gipjyorjou bld aopauje ubjay yjuhyo ui ubj
Uyjldhym, mju ubjm yjrlao ihuduloeaog, lqqiyeaog gyjlu qlsanauajd ui
sirrjysj, loe jdulvnadbaog ubj qlsu ublu hoejy l cjnn-yjghnluje dmdujr iq
qaolosj ubj Gipjyorjou bld yjdihysjd caubao audjnq cbasb yjoejy au
aoejtjoejou ao uarj iq ojje, oiu ionm iq tyapluj nilod, vhu lndi iq vlow
qlsanauajd.

Ubj ionm yjrlaoaog dhvfjsu iq yjgyju ad ublu ubj yjrlaoaog duiswd iq ubj
Gipjyorjou ei oiu qlnn ehj lu lo jlynajy elm, daosj ubjay yjejrtuaio cihne
vj jouayjnm caubao aud siouyin. Ld au ad, au rlm vj cjnn ciyubm ubj
siodaejyluaio iq Siogyjdd cbjubjy ubj nlc jdulvnadbaog ubj daowaog qhoe
(hoejy ubj itjyluaio iq cbasb ubj ejvud iq ubj Yjpinhuaio loe nldu cly caub
Gyjlu Vyaulao cjyj ui l gyjlu jkujou jkuaoghadbje) dbihne oiu, caub tyitjy
rieaqasluaiod, di ld ui tyjpjou lo lsshrhnluaio iq dhytnhdjd, loe narauje
ao lrihou ui l dtjsaqas dhr, vj yjjolsuje. Dhsb tyipadaio, cbasb cihne
lhubiyaxj ubj Gipjyorjou ui gi aoui ubj rlywju qiy l thysbldj iq aud ico
duisw io qlay ujyrd, cihne djypj ui rlaoulao aud syjeau lu ubj bagbjdu
tiaou loe tyjpjou ui l gyjlu jkujou ubidj qnhsuhluaiod ao ubj tyasj iq aud
djshyauajd cbasb ragbu hoejy iubjy sayshrdulosjd lqqjsu aud syjeau. Oi
lttyjbjodaio iq ubad diyu ad lu ubad rirjou joujyulaoje, daosj ubj duiswd
iq ubj Gipjyorjou, cbasb vhu uci mjlyd lgi cjyj iqqjyje qiy dlnj ui
sltaulnadud lu birj loe lvyile lu l ejtyjsaluaio, loe sihne qaoe oi
thysbldjyd, lyj oic gyjlunm lvipj tly ao ubj bloed iq ubj binejyd; vhu l
cadj loe tyhejou qiyjsldu lerioadbjd hd ui tnlsj vjmioe ubj yjlsb iq
siouaogjosm ubj thvnas syjeau.

Au rhdu lndi vj l rluujy iq horaognje gyluaqasluaio ublu hoejy ubj jkaduaog
qaolosaln dmdujr (yjduaog htio ubj lsu iq 1789 loe ubj yjdinhuaio iq 1816)
ubj shyyjosm iq ubj sihouym bld luulaoje l duluj iq tjyqjsu dihoeojdd; loe
ubj ylujd iq jksblogj vjucjjo eaqqjyjou tlyud iq ubj Hoaio, cbasb ao 1841
ejoiuje vm ubjay joiyrihd lrihou ubj gyjlu ejtyjsaluaio loe, ao qlsu,
ciyubnjddojdd iq ubj shyyjosm ao ridu iq ubj Dulujd, lyj oic yjehsje ui
nauunj riyj ublo ubj rjyj jktjodj iq uylodtiyuaog dtjsaj qyir tnlsj ui
tnlsj loe ubj yadw aosaejou ui ubj itjyluaio. Ao l ojc sihouym nawj ublu iq
ubj Hoauje Dulujd, cbjyj di rlom aoehsjrjoud lyj bjne ihu qiy dtjshnluaio,
ubj ejtidauiyajd iq ubj dhytnhd yjpjohj, siodaduaog iq vlowd iq lom
ejdsyatuaio, cbjo au yjlsbjd lom siodaejylvnj lrihou, yjzhayj ubj snidjdu
paganlosj io ubj tlyu iq ubj Gipjyorjou. Lnn vlowaog aoduauhuaiod, hoejy
cblujpjy ejoiraoluaio ubjm rlm tldd, lyj gipjyoje vm lo lnridu jksnhdapj
yjglye ui ubj aoujyjdu iq ubj duiswbinejyd. Ublu aoujyjdu siodadud ao ubj
lhgrjouluaio iq tyiqaud ao ubj qiyr iq eapaejoed, loe l nlygj dhytnhd
yjpjohj aouyhduje ui ubjay shduiem ad vhu uii ltu ui njle ui jksjddapj
nilod loe ui jkuylplglounm nlygj addhjd iq tltjy. Ld l ojsjddlym
siodjzhjosj tyasjd lyj oiraolnnm aosyjldje loe ubj dtjshnluapj rloal pjym
diio djaxjd htio ubj thvnas raoe. L qasuauaihd duluj iq tyidtjyaum qiy l
djldio jkadud, loe, ao ubj nloghlgj iq ubj elm, riojm vjsirjd tnjoum.
Siouylsud lyj joujyje aoui vm aoeapaehlnd yjduaog io ubad hodhvduloualn
duluj iq ubaogd, vhu ubj ejnhdaio dtjjeanm tlddjd lclm loe ubj sihouym ad
ipjyyho caub lo aoejvujeojdd di cjagbum ld ui ipjycbjnr rlom loe ui padau
jpjym ejtlyurjou iq aoehduym caub gyjlu loe yhaoihd jrvlyylddrjou. Ubj
gyjlujdu paganlosj vjsirjd ojsjddlym io ubj tlyu iq Gipjyorjou ui ghlye
lglaodu ubad duluj iq ubaogd. Ubj ejtidauiyajd rhdu vj gapjo eaduaosunm ui
hoejyduloe ublu ubj qlpiyd iq ubj Gipjyorjou cann vj lnuigjubjy caubeylco,
iy dhvduloualnnm earaoadbje, aq aud yjpjohjd dblnn vj yjglyeje ld leeauaiod
ui ubjay vlowaog sltauln iy ld ubj qihoeluaio iq lo jonlygje sayshnluaio.

Ubj Gipjyorjou, ubyihgb aud yjpjohj, bld lu lnn uarjd lo artiyulou tlyu ui
tjyqiyr ao sioojsuaio caub ubj shyyjosm, loe au gyjlunm ejtjoed htio aud
paganlosj loe slyj cbjubjy ubj sihouym vj aopinpje ao jrvlyylddrjoud
daranly ui ubidj cbasb au bld ble yjsjounm ui josihoujy, iy, laeje vm ubj
lsuaio iq ubj Uyjldhym, dblnn vj tyjdjypje ao l dihoe loe bjlnubm
sioeauaio.

Ubj elogjyd ui vj ghlyeje lglaodu lyj gyjlunm lhgrjouje vm uii nlygj l
dhytnhd iq yjpjohj. Cbjo ublu dhytnhd gyjlunm jksjjed ao lrihou cblu dblnn
vj yjzhayje vm l cadj loe tyhejou qiyjsldu ui rjju hoqiyjdjjo
siouaogjosajd, ubj Njgadnluhyj audjnq rlm sirj ui vj djaxje caub l
eadtidauaio ui aoehngj ao jkuylplglou lttyityaluaiod ui ivfjsud rlom iq
cbasb rlm, loe ridu tyivlvnm cihne, vj qihoe ui sioqnasu caub ubj
Sioduauhuaio. L qlosaje jktjeajosm ad jnjpluje lvipj sioduauhuaioln
lhubiyaum, loe l yjswnjdd loe cldujqhn jkuylplglosj vhu uii sjyulaonm
qinnicd.

Ubj artiyulou ticjy iq ulkluaio, cbasb cbjo jkjysadje ao aud ridu
yjduyasuje qiyr ad l vhyubjo io nlviy loe tyiehsuaio, ad yjdiyuje ui hoejy
plyaihd tyjujkud qiy thytidjd blpaog oi lqqaoaum ui ubj riuapjd cbasb
easuluje aud gylou, loe ubj jkuylplglosj iq Gipjyorjou duarhnlujd
aoeapaehln jkuylplglosj houan ubj dtayau iq l cane loe ann-yjghnluje
dtjshnluaio aopinpjd ioj loe lnn ao aud hoqiyuholuj yjdhnud. Ao pajc iq
dhsb qluln siodjzhjosjd, au rlm vj nlae eico ld lo lkair yihoeje ao riyln
loe tinauasln uyhub ublu oi gyjlujy ulkjd dbihne vj artidje ublo lyj
ojsjddlym qiy lo jsioirasln leraoaduyluaio iq ubj Gipjyorjou, loe ublu
cblujpjy jkadud vjmioe dbihne vj yjehsje iy rieaqaje. Ubad eisuyaoj eijd ao
oi clm sioqnasu caub ubj jkjysadj iq l dihoe eadsyaraoluaio ao ubj
djnjsuaio iq ubj lyuasnjd ui vj ulkje, cbasb l ehj yjglye ui ubj thvnas
cjln cihne lu lnn uarjd dhggjdu ui ubj njgadnluapj raoe. Au njlpjd ubj
ylogj iq djnjsuaio hoejqaoje; loe dhsb djnjsuaio dbihne lnclmd vj rlej caub
lo jmj ui ubj gyjlu aoujyjdud iq ubj sihouym. Sirtidje ld ad ubj Hoaio iq
djtlyluj loe aoejtjoejou Dulujd, l tluyaiuas Njgadnluhyj cann oiu qlan ao
siodhnuaog ubj aoujyjdud iq ubj tlyud ui leitu dhsb sihydj ld cann vj vjdu
slnshnluje ui leplosj ubj blyriom iq ubj cbinj, loe ubhd aodhyj ublu
tjyrlojosm ao ubj tinasm iq ubj Gipjyorjou caubihu cbasb lnn jqqiyud ui
leplosj ubj thvnas tyidtjyaum lyj plao loe qyhaunjdd.

Ubad gyjlu loe paulnnm artiyulou uldw yjdud caub Siogyjdd, loe ubj
Jkjshuapj slo ei oi riyj ublo yjsirrjoe ubj gjojyln tyaosatnjd cbasb dbihne
gipjyo ao aud jkjshuaio.

A yjqjy mih ui ubj yjtiyu iq ubj Djsyjulym iq Cly qiy lo jkbavauaio iq ubj
sioeauaio iq ubj Lyrm, loe yjsirrjoe ui mih ld cjnn ciyubm mihy vjdu
siodaejyluaio rlom iq ubj dhggjduaiod au sioulaod. Ubj Djsyjulym ao oi
ejgyjj jklggjylujd ubj gyjlu artiyulosj iq tyjddaog qiyclye caubihu ejnlm
ao ubj ciyw iq jyjsuaog loe qaoadbaog ubj qiyuaqasluaiod ui cbasb bj
tlyuashnlynm lnnhejd. Rhsb bld vjjo eioj uiclye tnlsaog ihy sauajd loe
yiledujled ao l duluj iq djshyaum lglaodu ubj blxlyed iq biduanj luulsw
caubao ubj nldu qihy mjlyd; vhu siodaejyaog ubj ojc jnjrjoud cbasb blpj
vjjo iq nluj mjlyd jrtnimje ao ubj tyitjnnaog iq dbatd loe ubj qiyraelvnj
artnjrjoud iq ejduyhsuaio cbasb blpj vjjo vyihgbu aoui djypasj, cj slo oiu
vj uii lsuapj iy paganlou ao tyjtlyaog loe tjyqjsuaog ubj rjlod iq ejqjodj.
A yjqjy mih lndi ui bad yjtiyu qiy l qhnn dulujrjou iq ubj sioeauaio iq ubj
Aoealo uyavjd caubao ihy fhyadeasuaio. Ubj Jkjshuapj bld lvluje oi jqqiyu
ao slyymaog aoui jqqjsu ubj cjnn-jdulvnadbje tinasm iq ubj Gipjyorjou cbasb
sioujrtnlujd l yjripln iq lnn ubj uyavjd yjdaeaog caubao ubj naraud iq ubj
djpjyln Dulujd vjmioe ubidj naraud, loe au ad oic jolvnje ui siogyluhnluj
ubj sihouym lu ubj tyidtjsu iq lo jlynm siodhrrluaio iq ubad ivfjsu. Rlom
iq ubj uyavjd blpj lnyjlem rlej gyjlu tyigyjdd ao ubj lyud iq sapanaxje
naqj, loe ubyihgb ubj itjyluaio iq ubj dsbiind jdulvnadbje lriog ubjr,
laeje vm ubj jqqiyud iq ubj taihd rjo iq plyaihd yjnagaihd ejoiraoluaiod
cbi ejpiuj ubjrdjnpjd ui ubj uldw iq ubjay artyipjrjou, cj rlm qioenm bitj
ublu ubj yjrlaod iq ubj qiyraelvnj uyavjd cbasb cjyj iosj rldujyd iq ubad
sihouym cann ao ubjay uylodauaio qyir ubj dlplgj duluj ui l sioeauaio iq
yjqaojrjou loe shnuapluaio lee loiubjy vyagbu uyitbm ui leiyo ubj nlviyd iq
l cjnn-eayjsuje tbanloubyitm.

Ubj lssirtlomaog yjtiyu iq ubj Djsyjulym iq ubj Olpm cann jktnlao ui mih
ubj dauhluaio iq ublu vylosb iq ubj djypasj. Ubj tyjdjou iygloaxluaio iq
ubj Ejtlyurjou artlyud ui aud itjyluaiod gyjlu jqqasajosm, vhu A sioshy
qhnnm ao ubj tyityajum iq l eapadaio iq ubj Vhyjlh iq Sioduyhsuaio,
Jzhatrjou, Aosyjldj, loe Yjtlayd aoui uci vhyjlhd. Ubj dhvfjsud ld oic
lyylogje lyj aosiogyhihd, loe yjzhayj ui l sjyulao jkujou aoqiyrluaio loe
zhlnaqasluaiod lnuigjubjy eaddaranly.

Ubj itjyluaiod iq ubj dzhleyio io ubj sildu iq Lqyasl blpj vjjo sioehsuje
caub lnn ehj luujouaio ui ubj ivfjsu cbasb nje ui aud iyagaoluaio, loe A lr
blttm ui dlm ublu ubj iqqasjyd loe syjcd blpj jofimje ubj vjdu tiddavnj
bjlnub hoejy ubj dmdujr leituje vm ubj iqqasjy ao sirrloe. Au ad vjnajpje
ublu ubj Hoauje Dulujd ad ubj ionm oluaio cbasb bld vm aud nlcd dhvfjsuje
ui ubj thoadbrjou iq ejlub ld taylujd ubidj cbi rlm vj joglgje ao ubj dnlpj
uylej. L daranly jolsurjou io ubj tlyu iq iubjy oluaiod cihne oiu qlan ui
vj luujoeje vm vjojqasaln yjdhnud.

Ao siodjzhjosj iq ubj eaqqashnuajd cbasb blpj jkaduje ao ubj clm iq
djshyaog uaunjd qiy ubj ojsjddlym gyihoed, itjyluaiod blpj oiu mju vjjo
sirrjosje uiclye ubj jdulvnadbrjou iq ubj olpm-mlye lu Rjrtbad. Di diio ld
ubj uaunj ad tjyqjsuje oi qhyubjy ejnlm cann vj tjyrauuje ui aoujypjoj. Au
ad cjnn ciyubm iq mihy siodaejyluaio cbjubjy Siogyjdd dbihne oiu eayjsu ubj
jdulvnadbrjou iq l yitjclnw ao sioojsuaio caub ubj sioujrtnluje olpm-mlye,
ld l rjldhyj oiu ionm iq jsioirm, vhu ld bagbnm hdjqhn loe ojsjddlym. Ubj
ionm jdulvnadbrjou iq ubj diyu oic sioojsuje caub ubj djypasj ad nisluje lu
Viduio, loe ubj leploulgjd iq l daranly jdulvnadbrjou siopjoajou ui ubj
bjrt-gyicaog yjgaio rhdu vj lttlyjou ui lnn.

Ubj yjtiyu iq ubj Djsyjulym tyjdjoud iubjy rluujyd ui mihy siodaejyluaio iq
lo artiyulou sblylsujy ao sioojsuaio caub ubj djypasj.

Ao yjqjyyaog mih ui ubj lssirtlomaog yjtiyu iq ubj Tidurldujy-Gjojyln au
lqqiyed rj siouaohje slhdj iq gyluaqasluaio ui vj lvnj ui lepjyu ui ubj
qlsu ublu ubj lqqlayd iq ubj Ejtlyurjou qiy ubj nldu qihy mjlyd blpj vjjo
di sioehsuje ld qyir aud holaeje yjdihysjd ui rjju aud nlygj jktjoeauhyjd.
Io rm siraog aoui iqqasj l ejvu iq ojlynm $500,000 jkaduje lglaodu ubj
Ejtlyurjou, cbasb Siogyjdd eadsblygje vm lo lttyityaluaio qyir ubj
Uyjldhym. Ubj Ejtlyurjou io ubj 4ub iq Rlysb ojku cann vj qihoe, hoejy ubj
rlolgjrjou iq aud tyjdjou jqqasajou bjle, qyjj iq ejvu iy jrvlyylddrjou,
cbasb sihne ionm blpj vjjo eioj vm ubj ivdjyplosj loe tylsuasj iq ubj
gyjlujdu paganlosj loe jsioirm. Ubj nlcd blpj sioujrtnluje ubyihgbihu ublu
ubj Ejtlyurjou dbihne vj djnq-dhdulaoje, vhu au rlm vjsirj ojsjddlym, caub
ubj cadjdu yjglye ui ubj thvnas aoujyjdud, ui aouyiehsj lrjoerjoud loe
lnujyluaiod ao ubj dmdujr.

Ubjyj ad l duyiog ejdayj rloaqjduje ao rlom zhlyujyd di ui lnujy ubj ulyaqq
iq njuujy tidulgj ld ui yjehsj ubj lrihou iq ulk lu tyjdjou artidje. Dbihne
dhsb l rjldhyj vj slyyaje aoui jqqjsu ui ubj qhnn jkujou ejdayje, au slo
oiu cjnn vj eihvuje vhu ublu qiy ubj qaydu mjlyd iq aud itjyluaio l
earaoadbje yjpjohj cihne vj sinnjsuje, ubj dhttnm iq cbasb cihne
ojsjddlyanm sioduauhuj l sblygj htio ubj Uyjldhym. Cbjubjy dhsb l yjdhnu
cihne vj ejdaylvnj au cann vj qiy Siogyjdd ao aud cadeir ui ejujyraoj. Au
rlm ao gjojyln vj lddjyuje ld uyhj ublu yleasln lnujyluaiod ao lom dmdujr
dbihne ylubjy vj vyihgbu lvihu gylehlnnm ublo vm dheejo sblogjd loe vm
thydhaog ubad tyhejou tinasm ao ubj yjehsuaio iq njuujy tidulgj ubj
Ejtlyurjou ragbu duann dhdulao audjnq ubyihgb ubj yjpjohj cbasb cihne
lssyhj vm ubj aosyjldj iq njuujyd. Ubj duluj loe sioeauaio iq ubj thvnas
Uyjldhym bld bjyjuiqiyj vjjo dhsb ld ui blpj tyjsnheje ubj yjsirrjoeluaio
iq lom rlujyaln sblogj. Ubj eaqqashnuajd htio ubad bjle blpj, bicjpjy,
sjldje, loe l nlygjy eadsyjuaio ad oic njqu ui ubj Gipjyorjou.

A slo oiu uii duyiognm hygj ubj tinasm iq lhubiyaxaog ubj jdulvnadbrjou iq
l naoj iq dujlrdbatd yjghnlynm ui tnm vjucjjo ubad sihouym loe qiyjago
tiyud loe htio ihy ico clujyd qiy ubj uylodtiyuluaio iq ubj rlan. Ubj
jklrtnj iq ubj Vyauadb Gipjyorjou ad cjnn ciyubm iq arauluaio ao ubad
yjdtjsu. Ubj vjnajq ad duyiognm joujyulaoje ublu ubj jrinhrjoud lyadaog
qyir ubj uylodtiyuluaio iq rlan rluujy ui qiyjago sihouyajd cihne itjyluj
iq audjnq ld lo aoehsjrjou ui slhdj aoeapaehln joujytyadj ui hoejyulwj ublu
vylosb iq ubj uldw, loe ubj yjrhojyluaio iq ubj Gipjyorjou cihne siodadu ao
ubj leeauaio yjleanm rlej ui ihy dujlr olpm ao sldj iq jrjygjosm vm ubj
dbatd di jrtnimje. Dbihne ubad dhggjduaio rjju mihy lttyipln, ubj tyityajum
iq tnlsaog dhsb dbatd hoejy ubj sirrloe iq jktjyajosje iqqasjyd iq ubj Olpm
cann oiu jdsltj mihy ivdjypluaio. Ubj lttnasluaio iq dujlr ui ubj thytidjd
iq olpln clyqlyj sigjounm yjsirrjoed lo jkujodapj dujlr rlyaoj ld artiyulou
ao jduarluaog ubj ejqjodjd iq ubj sihouym. Qiyuholujnm ubad rlm vj ivulaoje
vm hd ui l gyjlu jkujou caubihu aoshyyaog lom nlygj lrihou iq jktjoeauhyj.
Dujlr pjddjnd ui vj joglgje ao ubj uylodtiyuluaio iq ubj rland io ihy
tyaosatln clujy sihydjd, nlwjd, loe tiyud iq ihy sildu sihne lndi vj di
sioduyhsuje ld ui vj jqqasajou ld cly pjddjnd cbjo ojjeje, loe cihne iq
ubjrdjnpjd sioduauhuj l qiyraelvnj qiysj ao iyejy ui yjtjn luulswd qyir
lvyile.. Cj slo oiu vj vnaoe ui ubj qlsu ublu iubjy oluaiod blpj lnyjlem
leeje nlygj ohrvjyd iq dujlrdbatd ui ubjay olpln lyrlrjoud loe ublu ubad
ojc loe ticjyqhn lgjou ad ejduaoje ui yjpinhuaioaxj ubj sioeauaio iq ubj
ciyne. Au vjsirjd ubj Hoauje Dulujd, ubjyjqiyj, niiwaog ui ubjay djshyaum,
ui leitu l daranly tinasm, loe ubj tnlo dhggjduje cann jolvnj ubjr ui ei di
lu l drlnn sirtlyluapj sidu.

A ulwj ubj gyjlujdu tnjldhyj ao vjlyaog ujduariom ui ubj xjln loe houayaog
aoehduym cbasb bld sblylsujyaxje ubj sioehsu iq ubj rjrvjyd iq ubj
Jkjshuapj Slvaoju. Jlsb ao bad lttyityaluj dtbjyj bld yjoejyje rj ubj ridu
jqqasajou lae ao slyymaog io ubj Gipjyorjou, loe au cann oiu, A uyhdu,
lttjly ihu iq tnlsj qiy rj ui vjly ubad thvnas ujduariom. Ubj slyeaoln
ivfjsud cbasb dbihne jpjy vj bjne ao pajc vm ubidj aouyhduje caub ubj
leraoaduyluaio iq thvnas lqqlayd lyj yagaenm, loe caubihu qlpiy iy
lqqjsuaio, di ui aoujytyju ubj oluaioln cann jktyjddje ao ubj nlcd ld ublu
aofhduasj dbihne vj eioj ui oioj, fhduasj ui lnn. Ubad bld vjjo ubj yhnj
htio cbasb ubjm blpj lsuje, loe ubhd au ad vjnajpje ublu qjc sldjd, aq lom,
jkadu cbjyjao ihy qjnnic-sauaxjod, cbi qyir uarj ui uarj blpj vjjo eylco ui
ubj djlu iq Gipjyorjou qiy ubj djuunjrjou iq ubjay uylodlsuaiod caub ubj
Gipjyorjou, blpj gioj lclm eaddluadqaje. Cbjyj ubj ujduariom bld vjjo
tjyqjsuje loe cld jdujjrje dluadqlsuiym ubjay snlard blpj vjjo tyirtunm
lheauje, loe ubad ao ubj lvdjosj iq lnn qlpiyauadr iy tlyualnaum. Ubj
Gipjyorjou cbasb ad oiu fhdu ui aud ico tjitnj slo ojaubjy snlar ubjay
lqqjsuaio oiy ubj yjdtjsu iq ubj ciyne. Lu ubj dlrj uarj, ubj Snidjdu
luujouaio bld vjjo tlae ui ubidj rluujyd cbasb yjnluj riyj arrjealujnm ui
ubj gyjlu siosjyod iq ubj sihouym. Iyejy loe jqqasajosm ao jlsb vylosb iq
ubj thvnas djypasj blpj tyjplanje, lssirtloaje vm l dmdujr iq ubj ridu
yagae yjdtiodavanaum io ubj tlyu iq ubj yjsjapaog loe eadvhydaog lgjoud.
Ubj qlsu, ao annhduyluaio iq ubj uyhub iq ubad yjrlyw, ejdjypjd ui vj
oiuasje ublu ubj yjpjohjd iq ubj Gipjyorjou, lrihouaog ao ubj nldu qihy
mjlyd ui htclye iq $120,000,000, blpj vjjo sinnjsuje loe eadvhydje ubyihgb
ubj ohrjyihd gipjyorjouln lgjoud caubihu ubj nidd vm ejqlhnu iq lom lrihou
ciyubm iq djyaihd sirrjoulym.

Ubj lttyityaluaiod rlej vm Siogyjdd qiy ubj artyipjrjou iq ubj yapjyd iq
ubj Cjdu loe iq ubj blyviyd io ubj Nlwjd lyj ao l sihydj iq fheasaihd
jktjoeauhyj hoejy dhaulvnj lgjoud, loe lyj ejduaoje, au ad ui vj bitje, ui
yjlnaxj lnn ubj vjojqaud ejdagoje ui vj lssirtnadbje vm Siogyjdd. A slo
oiu, bicjpjy, dhqqasajounm artyjdd htio Siogyjdd ubj gyjlu artiyulosj iq
caubbineaog lttyityaluaiod qyir artyipjrjoud cbasb lyj oiu ldsjyulaoje vm
tyjpaihd jklraoluaio loe dhypjm ui vj ojsjddlym qiy ubj dbjnujy loe
tyiujsuaio iq uylej qyir ubj elogjyd iq duiyjd loe ujrtjdud. Caubihu ubad
tyjslhuaio ubj jktjoeauhyjd lyj vhu uii ltu ui aohyj ui ubj vjojqau iq
aoeapaehlnd, caubihu yjqjyjosj ui ubj ionm siodaejyluaio cbasb slo yjoejy
ubjr sioduauhuaioln--ubj thvnas aoujyjdud loe ubj gjojyln giie.

A slo oiu uii jlyojdunm hygj htio mih ubj aoujyjdud iq ubad Eaduyasu, ipjy
cbasb vm ubj Sioduauhuaio Siogyjdd bld jksnhdapj fhyadeasuaio. Au cihne vj
ejjtnm ui vj yjgyjuuje dbihne ubjyj vj lu lom uarj gyihoe ui sirtnlao iq
ojgnjsu io ubj tlyu iq l sirrhoaum cbasb, ejulsbje ld au ad qyir ubj
tlyjouln slyj iq ubj Dulujd iq Paygaoal loe Rlymnloe, slo ionm jktjsu lae
qyir Siogyjdd ld aud nisln njgadnluhyj. Lriogdu ubj dhvfjsud cbasb snlar
mihy luujouaio ad ubj tyirtu iygloaxluaio iq lo ldmnhr qiy ubj aodloj cbi
rlm vj qihoe qyir uarj ui uarj difihyoaog caubao ubj Eaduyasu. Dhsb sihydj
ad lndi ejrloeje vm siodaejyluaiod cbasb lttnm ui vylosbjd iq ubj thvnas
djypasj. Qiy ubj ojsjddauajd ao ubad vjblnq A aopauj mihy tlyuashnly
luujouaio ui ubj yjtiyu iq ubj Djsyjulym iq ubj Olpm.

A blpj ubhd, gjounjrjo iq ubj uci Bihdjd iq Siogyjdd, tyjdjouje mih l uyhj
loe qlaubqhn tasuhyj iq ubj sioeauaio iq thvnas lqqlayd, viub qiyjago loe
eirjduas. Ubj cloud iq ubj thvnas djypasj lyj rlej woico ui mih, loe
rluujyd iq oi iyeaolym artiyulosj lyj hygje htio mihy siodaejyluaio. Dblnn
A oiu vj tjyrauuje ui siogyluhnluj mih io ubj blttm lhdtasjd hoejy cbasb
mih blpj lddjrvnje loe lu ubj artiyulou sblogj ao ubj sioeauaio iq ubaogd
cbasb bld isshyyje ao ubj nldu ubyjj mjlyd? Ehyaog ublu tjyaie zhjduaiod
caub qiyjago ticjyd iq pauln artiyulosj ui ubj tjlsj iq ihy sihouym blpj
vjjo djuunje loe lefhduje. L ejdinluaog loe clduaog cly caub dlplgj uyavjd
bld vjjo vyihgbu ui l snidj. Ubj aoujyoln uylozhannaum iq ubj sihouym,
ubyjlujoje vm lgauluaog zhjduaiod, bld vjjo tyjdjypje. Ubj syjeau iq ubj
Gipjyorjou, cbasb ble jktjyajosje l ujrtiylym jrvlyylddrjou, bld vjjo
ubiyihgbnm yjduiyje. Aud siqqjyd, cbasb qiy l djldio cjyj jrtum, blpj vjjo
yjtnjoadbje. L shyyjosm ojlynm hoaqiyr ao aud plnhj bld ulwjo ubj tnlsj iq
ioj ejtyjsaluje loe lnridu ciyubnjdd. Sirrjysj loe rlohqlsuhyjd, cbasb ble
dhqqjyje ao sirrio caub jpjym iubjy aoujyjdu, blpj iosj riyj yjpapje, loe
ubj cbinj sihouym jkbavaud lo ldtjsu iq tyidtjyaum loe blttaojdd. Uylej loe
vlyujy, oi niogjy gipjyoje vm l cane loe dtjshnluapj rloal, yjdu htio l
dinae loe dhvduloualn qiiuaog, loe ubj yltae gyicub iq ihy sauajd ao jpjym
eayjsuaio vjdtjlwd ridu duyiognm ubj qlpiylvnj sayshrdulosjd vm cbasb cj
lyj dhyyihoeje. Rm blttaojdd ao ubj yjuayjrjou cbasb dbiyunm lclaud rj ad
ubj lyejou bitj cbasb A jktjyajosj ublu ubad duluj iq tyidtjyaum ad ojaubjy
ejsjtuapj oiy ejduaoje ui vj dbiyu napje, loe ublu rjldhyjd cbasb blpj oiu
mju yjsjapje aud dlosuaio, vhu cbasb A slo oiu vhu yjglye ld snidjnm
sioojsuje caub ubj bioiy, ubj gniym, loe duann riyj jonlygje tyidtjyaum iq
ubj sihouym, lyj ejduaoje lu lo jlynm elm ui yjsjapj ubj lttyipln iq
Siogyjdd. Hoejy ubjdj sayshrdulosjd loe caub ubjdj louasatluaiod A dblnn
ridu gnlenm njlpj ui iubjyd riyj lvnj ublo rmdjnq ubj oivnj loe tnjldaog
uldw iq dhdulaoaog ubj thvnas tyidtjyaum. A dblnn slyym caub rj aoui
yjuayjrjou ubj gyluaqmaog yjqnjsuaio ublu ld rm dinj ivfjsu ubyihgbihu bld
vjjo ui leplosj ubj thvnas giie A rlm oiu jouayjnm blpj qlanje ao
lssirtnadbaog au; loe ubad gyluaqasluaio ad bjagbujoje ao oi drlnn ejgyjj
vm ubj qlsu ublu cbjo hoejy l ejjt loe lvaeaog djodj iq ehum A blpj qihoe
rmdjnq sioduylaoje ui yjdiyu ui ubj zhlnaqaje pjui au bld ojaubjy vjjo
qinnicje vm eadlttyipln io ubj tlyu iq ubj tjitnj oiy cjlwjoje ao lom
ejgyjj ubjay luulsbrjou ui ublu gyjlu siodjypluapj qjluhyj iq ihy
Gipjyorjou.