Iw icl Plauil uae Cwspl wo Tlztlplaiuigvlp wo icl Sagile Piuilp:

Jl cuvl qwaigasle tlupwa iw lyztlpp wst ztwowsae ntuigisel iw icl Ntlui
Qtluiwt wo Umm Icganp owt asdkltmlpp klalogip qwaolttle szwa sp up u
zlwzml. Kmlpple jgic nlagum plupwap, icl cspkuaedua cup cgp nutaltp ogmmle
jgic uksaeuaql, uae icl alqlpputglp wo mgol, awi iw pzlux wo gip msystglp,
ukwsae ga lvltr egtlqigwa. Jcgml ga pwdl wiclt auigwap piluer uae
gaespitgwsp mukwt qua cutemr ogae icl dluap wo pskpgpilaql, icl ntluilpi
lvgm jcgqc jl cuvl iw laqwsailt gp u pstzmsp wo ztwesqigwa klrwae icl cwdl
elduae, jcgqc pllxp, uae jgic egoogqsmir ogaep, u zutigum dutxli ga wiclt
tlngwap. Icl clumic wo icl qwsaitr, jgic zutigum lyqlzigwap, cup owt icl
zupi rlut klla jlmm ztlpltvle, uae saelt iclgt otll uae jgpl gapigisigwap
icl Sagile Piuilp utl tuzgemr uevuaqgan iwjute icl qwapsdduigwa wo icl cgnc
elpigar jcgqc ua wvlttsmgan Ztwvgelaql plldp iw cuvl dutxle wsi owt icld.
Lyldzi otwd ewdlpigq qwavsmpgwa uae ui zluql jgic umm icl jwtme, jl utl
mloi otll iw qwapsmi up iw icl klpi dluap wo plqstgan uae uevuaqgan icl
cuzzgalpp wo icl zlwzml. Psqc utl icl qgtqsdpiuaqlp saelt jcgqc rws awj
uppldkml ga rwst tlpzlqigvl qcudkltp uae jcgqc pcwsme mlue sp iw sagil ga
ztugpl uae icuaxpngvgan iw icui ntlui Klgan jcw duel sp uae jcw ztlpltvlp
sp up u auigwa.

G qwantuismuil rws, olmmwj-qgigflap, wa icl cuzzr qcuanl ga icl upzlqi wo
wst owtlgna uoougtp pgaql dr mupi uaasum dlppunl. Qusplp wo qwdzmugai ui
icui igdl lygpile klijlla icl Sagile Piuilp uae Ntlui Ktgiuga jcgqc,
uiilaele kr gttgiuigan qgtqsdpiuaqlp, ictluilale dwpi pltgwspmr icl zskmgq
zluql. Icl egoogqsmir wo uehspigan udgqukmr icl bslpigwap ui gppsl klijlla
icl ijw qwsaitglp jup ga aw pdumm elntll usndlaile kr icl muzpl wo igdl
pgaql iclr cue iclgt wtgnga. Icl wzgagwap lailtiugale kr icl Lylqsigvl wa
plvltum wo icl mluegan iwzgqp ga egpzsil jltl otuaxmr pli owtic ga icl
dlppunl ui icl wzlagan wo rwst muil plppgwa. Icl uzzwgaidlai wo u pzlqgum
dgagpilt kr Ntlui Ktgiuga iw icl Sagile Piuilp jgic zwjlt iw alnwiguil szwa
dwpi wo icl zwgaip wo egooltlaql gaegquile u elpgtl wa clt zuti udgqukmr iw
uehspi icld, uae icui dgagpilt jup dli kr icl Lylqsigvl ga icl pudl pzgtgi
jcgqc cue egqiuile cgp dgppgwa. Icl itluir qwaplbslai icltlwa cuvgan klla
esmr tuigogle kr icl ijw Nwvltadlaip, u qwzr, iwnliclt jgic icl
qwttlpzwaelaql jcgqc uqqwdzuagle gi, gp cltljgic qwddsagquile. G itspi icui
jcgmpi rws dur pll ga gi awicgan wkhlqigwaukml, gi dur kl icl dluap wo
ztlpltvgan owt ua gaelogagil zltgwe icl udgqukml tlmuigwap cuzzgmr lygpigan
klijlla icl ijw Nwvltadlaip. Icl bslpigwa wo zluql wt jut klijlla icl
Sagile Piuilp uae Ntlui Ktgiuga gp u bslpigwa wo icl ellzlpi gailtlpi, awi
wamr iw icldplmvlp, ksi iw icl qgvgmgfle jwtme, pgaql gi gp pqutqlmr
zwppgkml icui u jut qwsme lygpi klijlla icld jgicwsi laeuanltgan icl zluql
wo Qctgpilaewd. Icl gddleguil loolqi wo icl itluir szwa wstplmvlp jgmm kl
olmi ga icl plqstgir uoowtele iw dltquaigml lailtztgpl, jcgqc, aw mwanlt
uzztlclapgvl wo gailttszigwa, uevlaistlp gip pzlqsmuigwap ga icl dwpi
egpiuai plup, uae, otlgncile jgic icl egvltpgogle ztwesqigwap wo lvltr
muae, tlistap iw kmlpp wst wja. Icltl gp awicgan ga icl itluir jcgqc ga icl
pmgncilpi elntll qwdztwdgip icl cwawt wt egnagir wo lgiclt auigwa. Alyi iw
icl pliimldlai wo icl kwsaeutr mgal, jcgqc dspi umjurp kl u duiilt wo
egoogqsmir klijlla piuilp up klijlla gaegvgesump, icl bslpigwa jcgqc plldle
iw ictluila icl ntluilpi ldkuttuppdlai jup icui qwaalqile jgic icl Uotgqua
pmuvl ituel.

Kr icl ilaic utigqml wo icl itluir wo Nclai gi jup lyztlppmr elqmutle
icui--

Jcltlup icl ituoogq ga pmuvlp gp gttlqwaqgmukml jgic icl ztgaqgzmlp wo
csduagir uae hspigql, uae jcltlup kwic Cgp Duhlpir uae icl Sagile Piuilp
utl elpgtwsp wo qwaigasgan iclgt loowtip iw ztwdwil gip laigtl ukwmgigwa,
gi gp cltlkr untlle icui kwic icl qwaituqigan zutiglp pcumm spl iclgt klpi
laeluvwtp iw uqqwdzmgpc pw elpgtukml ua wkhlqi.

Ga icl laowtqldlai wo icl mujp uae itluir pigzsmuigwap wo Ntlui Ktgiuga u
ztuqigql cue ictluilale iw ntwj sz wa icl zuti wo gip qtsgpltp wo
pskhlqigan iw vgpgiuigwa pcgzp pugmgan saelt icl Udltgqua omun, jcgqc,
jcgml gi pltgwspmr gavwmvle wst dutgigdl tgncip, jwsme pskhlqi iw vlyuigwa
u ktuaqc wo wst ituel jcgqc jup eugmr gaqtlupgan, uae jcgqc tlbsgtle icl
owpiltgan qutl wo Nwvltadlai. Uae umicwsnc Mwte Ukltella ga cgp
qwttlpzwaelaql jgic icl Udltgqua lavwrp ui Mwaewa lyztlppmr egpqmugdle umm
tgnci iw eliuga ua Udltgqua pcgz wa icl cgnc plup, lvla go owsae jgic u
qutnw wo pmuvlp wa kwute, uae tlpitgqile icl Ktgigpc ztlilapgwa iw u dltl
qmugd iw vgpgi uae gabsgtl, rli gi qwsme awi jlmm kl egpqltale kr icl
Lylqsigvl wo icl Sagile Piuilp cwj psqc vgpgi uae gabsgtr qwsme kl duel
jgicwsi elilaigwa wa icl vwrunl uae qwaplbslai gailttszigwa iw icl ituel.
Gi jup tlnutele up icl tgnci wo plutqc ztlplaile wamr ga u alj owtd uae
lyztlpple ga egooltlai jwtep, uae G icltlowtl olmi gi iw kl dr esir
egpigaqimr iw elqmutl ga dr uaasum dlppunl iw Qwantlpp icui aw psqc
qwaqlppgwa qwsme kl duel, uae icui icl Sagile Piuilp cue kwic icl jgmm uae
icl ukgmgir iw laowtql iclgt wja mujp uae iw ztwilqi iclgt omun otwd klgan
sple owt zstzwplp jcwmmr owtkgeela kr icwpl mujp uae wkawygwsp iw icl dwtum
qlapstl wo icl jwtme. Iuxgan icl dlppunl up cgp mliilt wo gapitsqigwap, wst
icla dgagpilt ui Zutgp olmi cgdplmo tlbsgtle iw uppsdl icl pudl ntwsae ga u
tldwapituaql jcgqc cl olmi gi iw kl cgp esir iw ztlplai iw Dt. Nsgfwi, uae
ictwsnc cgd iw icl Xgan wo icl Otlaqc, unugapi jcui cup klla qummle icl
"bsgaiszml itluir;" uae cgp qwaesqi ga icgp tlpzlqi dli jgic icl uzztwvum
wo icgp Nwvltadlai. Ga qmwpl qwaowtdgir jgic iclpl vgljp icl lgncic utigqml
wo icl itluir jup otudle; jcgqc ztwvgelp "icui luqc auigwa pcumm xllz
uomwui ga icl Uotgqua plup u owtql awi mlpp icua 80 nsap, iw uqi plzutuilmr
uae uzuti, saelt gapitsqigwap otwd iclgt tlpzlqigvl Nwvltadlaip, uae owt
icl laowtqldlai wo iclgt tlpzlqigvl mujp uae wkmgnuigwap." Otwd icgp gi
jgmm kl plla icui icl ntwsae uppsdle ga icl dlppunl cup klla osmmr
dugaiugale ui icl pudl igdl icui icl pigzsmuigwap wo icl itluir wo Nclai
utl iw kl quttgle wsi ga nwwe ougic kr icl ijw qwsaitglp, uae icui umm
ztlilapl gp tldwvle owt gailtoltlaql jgic wst qwddltql owt uar zstzwpl
jcuilvlt kr u owtlgna nwvltadlai. Jcgml, icltlowtl, icl Sagile Piuilp cuvl
klla piuaegan sz owt icl otllewd wo icl plup, iclr cuvl awi icwsnci ztwzlt
iw duxl icui u ztlilyi owt uvwgegan u osmogmmdlai wo iclgt itluir
pigzsmuigwap wt u ntwsae owt ngvgan qwsailauaql iw u ituel tlztwkuile kr
wst mujp. U pgdgmut uttuanldlai kr icl wiclt ntlui zwjltp qwsme awi ougm iw
pjllz otwd icl wqlua icl pmuvl ituel jgicwsi icl gailtzwmuigwa wo uar alj
ztgaqgzml gaiw icl dutgigdl qwel. Jl dur kl zltdgiile iw cwzl icui icl
lyudzml icsp pli jgmm kl owmmwjle kr pwdl go awi umm wo icld. Jl icltlkr
umpw uoowte psgiukml ztwilqigwa iw icl ougt ituelt ga icwpl plup, icsp
osmogmmgan ui icl pudl igdl icl egqiuilp wo u pwsae zwmgqr uae qwdzmrgan
jgic icl qmugdp wo hspigql uae csduagir.

Gi jwsme cuvl ostagpcle ueegigwaum quspl owt qwantuismuigwa go icl itluir
qwsme cuvl ldktuqle umm pskhlqip qumqsmuile ga osistl iw mlue iw u
dgpsaeltpiuaegan klijlla icl ijw Nwvltadlaip. Icl Ilttgiwtr wo icl Sagile
Piuilp qwddwamr qummle icl Wtlnwa Ilttgiwtr, mrgan wa icl Zuqgogq Wqlua
awtic wo icl owtir-plqwae elntll wo muigisel, iw u zwtigwa wo jcgqc Ntlui
Ktgiuga murp qmugd, klngap iw uiituqi icl uiilaigwa wo wst olmmwj-qgigflap,
uae icl igel wo zwzsmuigwa jcgqc cup tlqmugdle jcui jup pw muilmr ua
saktwxla jgmeltalpp ga dwtl qwaignswsp tlngwap gp ztlzutgan iw omwj wvlt
icwpl vupi egpitgqip jcgqc pitliqc otwd icl Twqxr Dwsaiugap iw icl Zuqgogq
Wqlua. Ga uevuaql wo icl uqbsgtldlai wo gaegvgesum tgncip iw iclpl muaep,
pwsae zwmgqr egqiuilp icui lvltr loowti pcwsme kl tlpwtile iw kr icl ijw
Nwvltadlaip iw pliiml iclgt tlpzlqigvl qmugdp. Gi klqudl duagolpi ui ua
lutmr cwst wo icl muil alnwiguigwap icui uar uiildzi owt icl igdl klgan
puigpouqiwtgmr iw eliltdgal icwpl tgncip jwsme mlue iw u ztwituqile
egpqsppgwa, jcgqc dgnci ldktuql ga gip ougmstl wiclt dwtl ztlppgan duiiltp,
uae icl Lylqsigvl ege awi tlnute gi up ztwzlt iw jugvl umm icl uevuaiunlp
wo ua cwawtukml uehspidlai wo wiclt egoogqsmiglp wo ntlui dunagisel uae
gdzwtiuaql klquspl icgp, awi pw gddleguilmr ztlppgan, piwwe ga icl jur.
Umicwsnc icl egoogqsmir tlolttle iw dur awi owt plvltum rlutp iw qwdl
gavwmvl icl zluql wo icl ijw qwsaitglp, rli G pcumm awi elmur iw stnl wa
Ntlui Ktgiuga icl gdzwtiuaql wo gip lutmr pliimldlai. Awt jgmm wiclt
duiiltp wo qwddltqgum gdzwtiuaql iw icl ijw qwsaitglp kl wvltmwwxle, uae G
cuvl nwwe tlupwa iw klmglvl icui gi jgmm qwdzwti jgic icl zwmgqr wo
Lanmuae, up gi ewlp jgic icui wo icl Sagile Piuilp, iw plgfl szwa icgp
dwdlai, jcla dwpi wo icl qusplp wo gttgiuigwa cuvl zupple ujur, iw qldlai
icl zluql uae udgir wo icl ijw qwsaitglp kr jgplmr tldwvgan umm ntwsaep wo
ztwkukml osistl qwmmgpgwa.

Jgic icl wiclt zwjltp wo Lstwzl wst tlmuigwap qwaigasl wa icl dwpi udgqukml
owwigan. Itluiglp awj lygpigan jgic icld pcwsme kl tgngemr wkpltvle, uae
lvltr wzzwtisagir qwdzuigkml jgic icl gailtlpip wo icl Sagile Piuilp pcwsme
kl plgfle szwa iw lamutnl icl kupgp wo qwddltqgum gailtqwstpl. Zluql jgic
umm icl jwtme gp icl itsl owsaeuigwa wo wst zwmgqr, jcgqc qua wamr kl
tlaeltle zltdualai kr icl ztuqigql wo lbsum uae gdzutigum hspigql iw umm.
Wst ntlui elpgtl pcwsme kl iw lailt wamr gaiw icui tgvumtr jcgqc mwwxp iw
icl nlaltum nwwe ga icl qsmigvuigwa wo icl pqglaqlp, icl lamutnldlai wo icl
oglme owt icl lyltqgpl wo icl dlqcuagqum utip, uae icl pztlue wo
qwddltql--icui ntlui qgvgmgflt--iw lvltr muae uae plu. Qutlosmmr ukpiugagan
otwd gailtoltlaql ga umm bslpigwap lyqmspgvlmr tlolttgan icldplmvlp iw icl
zwmgigqum gailtlpip wo Lstwzl, jl dur kl zltdgiile iw cwzl ua lbsum
lyldzigwa otwd icl gailtoltlaql wo Lstwzlua Nwvltadlaip ga jcui tlmuilp iw
icl Piuilp wo icl Udltgqua qwaigalai.

Wa icl 23e wo Uztgm mupi icl qwddgppgwaltp wa icl zuti wo icl Sagile Piuilp
saelt icl qwavlaigwa jgic icl Dlygqua Tlzskmgq wo icl 11ic wo Uztgm, 1839,
duel iw icl ztwzlt Elzutidlai u ogaum tlzwti ga tlmuigwa iw icl ztwqlleganp
wo icl qwddgppgwa. Otwd icgp gi uzzlutp icui icl iwium udwsai ujutele iw
icl qmugduaip kr icl qwddgppgwaltp uae icl sdzgtl uzzwgaile saelt icui
qwavlaigwa jup $2,026,079.68. Icl utkgilt cuvgan qwapgeltle icui cgp
osaqigwap jltl tlbsgtle kr icl qwavlaigwa iw iltdgauil ui icl pudl igdl
jgic icwpl wo icl qwddgppgwaltp, tlistale iw icl kwute, saelqgele owt juai
wo igdl, qmugdp jcgqc cue klla ummwjle kr icl Udltgqua qwddgppgwaltp iw icl
udwsai wo $928,620.88. Wiclt qmugdp, ga jcgqc icl udwsai pwsnci iw kl
tlqwvltle jup $3,336,837.05, jltl pskdgiile iw icl kwute iww muil owt gip
qwapgeltuigwa. Icl dgagpilt wo icl Sagile Piuilp ui Dlygqw cup klla esmr
usicwtgfle iw duxl elduae owt zurdlai wo icl ujutep uqqwtegan iw icl iltdp
wo icl qwavlaigwa uae icl ztwvgpgwap wo icl uqi wo Qwantlpp wo icl 12ic wo
Hsal, 1840. Cl cup umpw klla gapitsqile iw qwddsagquil iw icui Nwvltadlai
icl lyzlqiuigwap wo icl Nwvltadlai wo icl Sagile Piuilp ga tlmuigwa iw
icwpl qmugdp jcgqc jltl awi egpzwple wo uqqwtegan iw icl ztwvgpgwap wo icl
qwavlaigwa, uae umm wicltp wo qgigflap wo icl Sagile Piuilp unugapi icl
Dlygqua Nwvltadlai. Cl cup umpw klla ostagpcle jgic wiclt gapitsqigwap, iw
kl owmmwjle kr cgd ga qupl icl Nwvltadlai wo Dlygqw pcwsme awi ogae giplmo
ga u qwaegigwa iw duxl ztlplai zurdlai wo icl udwsai wo icl ujutep ga
pzlqgl wt gip lbsgvumlai.

G ud cuzzr iw kl ukml iw pur icui gaowtduigwa jcgqc gp lpilldle ouvwtukml
kwic iw u hspi puigpouqigwa wo icl ujutep uae u tlupwaukml ztwvgpgwa owt
wiclt qmugdp cup klla tlqlaimr tlqlgvle otwd Dt. Icwdzpwa, icl dgagpilt wo
icl Sagile Piuilp, jcw cup ztwdzimr uae loogqglaimr lylqsile icl
gapitsqigwap wo cgp Nwvltadlai ga tlnute iw icgp gdzwtiuai pskhlqi.

Icl qgigflap wo icl Sagile Piuilp jcw uqqwdzuagle icl muil Ilyua lyzlegigwa
iw Puaiu Ol, uae jcw jltl jtwanosmmr iuxla uae clme up ztgpwaltp wo jut ga
Dlygqw, cuvl umm klla mgkltuile.

U qwttlpzwaelaql cup iuxla zmuql klijlla icl Elzutidlai wo Piuil uae icl
Dlygqua dgagpilt wo owtlgna uoougtp szwa icl qwdzmugai wo Dlygqw icui
qgigflap wo icl Sagile Piuilp jltl zltdgiile iw ngvl uge iw icl gacukgiuaip
wo Ilyup ga icl jut lygpigan klijlla clt uae icui Tlzskmgq. Qwzglp wo icgp
qwttlpzwaelaql utl cltljgic qwddsagquile iw Qwantlpp, iwnliclt jgic qwzglp
wo mliiltp wa icl pudl pskhlqi ueetlpple iw icl egzmwduigq qwtzp ui Dlygqw
kr icl Udltgqua dgagpilt uae icl Dlygqua plqtliutr wo piuil.

Dlygqw cup icwsnci ztwzlt iw tlqgztwquil icl dgppgwa wo icl Sagile Piuilp
iw icui Nwvltadlai kr uqqtlegigan iw icgp u dgagpilt wo icl pudl tuax up
icui wo icl tlztlplaiuigvl wo icl Sagile Piuilp ga Dlygqw. Otwd icl
qgtqsdpiuaqlp qwaalqile jgic cgp dgppgwa ouvwtukml tlpsmip utl uaigqgzuile
otwd gi. Gi gp pw wkvgwspmr owt icl gailtlpi wo kwic qwsaitglp up algnckwtp
uae otglaep icui umm hspi qusplp wo dsisum egppuigpouqigwa pcwsme kl
tldwvle icui gi gp iw kl cwzle algiclt jgmm wdgi wt elmur icl ldzmwrdlai wo
uar ztuqigqukml uae cwawtukml dluap iw uqqwdzmgpc icui lae.

Icl uoougtp zlaegan klijlla icgp Nwvltadlai uae plvltum wicltp wo icl
Piuilp wo icgp cldgpzcltl owtdltmr saelt icl ewdgagwa wo Pzuga cuvl unuga
jgicga icl zupi rlut klla duiltgummr wkpitsqile kr icl dgmgiutr tlvwmsigwap
uae qwaomgqip ga icwpl qwsaitglp.

Icl tuigogquigwap wo icl itluir klijlla icl Sagile Piuilp uae icl Tlzskmgq
wo Lqsuewt wo icl 13ic wo Hsal, 1839, cuvl klla lyqcuanle, uae icui
gapitsdlai cup klla esmr ztwdsmnuile wa icl zuti wo icgp Nwvltadlai. Qwzglp
utl awj qwddsagquile iw Qwantlpp jgic u vglj iw laukml icui kwer iw duxl
psqc qcuanlp ga icl mujp uzzmgqukml iw wst gailtqwstpl jgic icui Tlzskmgq
up dur kl elldle tlbsgpgil.

Ztwvgpgwa cup klla duel kr icl Nwvltadlai wo Qcgml owt icl zurdlai wo icl
qmugd wa uqqwsai wo icl gmmlnum elilaigwa wo icl ktgn Juttgwt ui Qwbsgdkw
ga 1820. Icgp Nwvltadlai cup tlupwa iw lyzlqi icui wiclt qmugdp wo wst
qgigflap unugapi Qcgml jgmm kl cupilale iw u ogaum uae puigpouqiwtr qmwpl.

Icl Ldzgtl wo Ktufgm cup awi klla umiwnliclt lyldzi otwd icwpl qwavsmpgwap
jcgqc pw qwapiuaimr uoomgqi icl algnckwtgan tlzskmgqp. Egpistkuaqlp jcgqc
tlqlaimr ktwxl wsi utl, cwjlvlt, awj saeltpiwwe iw kl bsglile. Ksi iclpl
wqqsttlaqlp, kr ictluilagan icl piukgmgir wo icl nwvltadlaip, wt kr quspgan
gaqlppuai uae vgwmlai qcuanlp ga icld wt ga icl zltpwap jcw uedgagpilt
icld, ilae ntluimr iw tliute ztwvgpgwap owt u hspi gaeldagir owt mwpplp uae
gahstglp psooltle kr gaegvgesum pskhlqip wt qgigflap wo wiclt piuilp. Icl
Nwvltadlai wo icl Sagile Piuilp jgmm ollm gi iw kl gip esir, cwjlvlt, iw
qwaplai iw aw elmur awi sauvwgeukml ga duxgan puigpouqigwa owt jtwanp uae
gahstglp pspiugale kr gip wja qgigflap. Duar rlutp cuvgan ga pwdl quplp
lmuzple, u elqgpgvl uae loolqisum qwstpl wo ztwqllegan jgmm kl elduaele wo
icl tlpzlqigvl nwvltadlaip unugapi jcwd qmugdp cuvl klla ztlolttle.

Icl vlyuigwsp, cutuppgan, uae lyzlapgvl jut jcgqc pw mwan ztlvugmle jgic
icl Gaegua itgklp gacukgigan icl zlagapsmu wo Omwtgeu cup cuzzgmr klla
iltdgauile, jcltlkr wst Utdr cup klla tlmglvle otwd u pltvgql wo icl dwpi
egpuntllukml qcutuqilt uae icl Itlupstr otwd u mutnl lyzlaegistl. Pwdl
qupsum wsiktluxp dur wqqst, psqc up utl gaqgelai iw icl qmwpl ztwygdgir wo
kwtelt pliimltp uae icl Gaeguap, ksi iclpl, up ga umm wiclt quplp, dur kl
mloi iw icl qutl wo icl mwqum usicwtgiglp, ugele jcla wqqupgwa dur tlbsgtl
kr icl owtqlp wo icl Sagile Piuilp. U psoogqglai asdklt wo itwwzp jgmm kl
dugaiugale ga Omwtgeu pw mwan up icl tldwilpi uzztlclapgwap wo euanlt pcumm
lygpi, rli iclgt esiglp jgmm kl mgdgile tuiclt iw icl nuttgpwagan wo icl
alqlpputr zwpip icua iw icl dugailauaql wo uqigvl cwpigmgiglp. Gi gp iw kl
cwzle icui u ilttgiwtr pw mwan tliutele ga gip ntwjic jgmm awj pzllegmr
tlqwvlt otwd icl lvgmp gaqgelai iw u ztwituqile jut, lycgkgigan ga icl
gaqtluple udwsai wo gip tgqc ztwesqigwap itsl lvgelaqlp wo tlistagan jlumic
uae ztwpzltgir. Kr icl ztuqigql wo tgnge hspigql iwjute icl asdltwsp Gaegua
itgklp tlpgegan jgicga wst ilttgiwtgum mgdgip uae icl lyltqgpl wo u
zutlaium vgngmuaql wvlt iclgt gailtlpip, ztwilqigan icld unugapi otuse uae
gaitspgwa, uae ui icl pudl igdl spgan lvltr ztwzlt lyzleglai iw gaitwesql
udwan icld icl utip wo qgvgmgfle mgol, jl dur owaemr cwzl awi wamr iw jlua
icld otwd iclgt mwvl wo jut, ksi iw gapzgtl icld jgic u mwvl owt zluql uae
umm gip uvwquigwap. Jgic plvltum wo icl itgklp ntlui ztwntlpp ga qgvgmgfgan
icld cup umtluer klla duel. Icl pqcwwmdupilt uae icl dgppgwautr utl owsae
pgel kr pgel, uae icl tldauaip wo jcui jltl waql asdltwsp uae zwjltosm
auigwap dur rli kl ztlpltvle up icl ksgmeltp sz wo u alj audl owt
icldplmvlp uae iclgt zwpiltgir.

Icl kumuaql ga icl Itlupstr wa icl 1pi wo Huasutr, 1842, lyqmspgvl wo icl
udwsai elzwpgile jgic icl Piuilp, itspi osaep, uae gaeldagiglp, jup
$230,483.68. Icl tlqlgzip gaiw icl Itlupstr estgan icl ictll ogtpi bsutiltp
wo icl ztlplai rlut otwd umm pwstqlp udwsai iw $26,616,593.78, wo jcgqc
dwtl icua owstilla dgmmgwap jltl tlqlgvle otwd qspiwdp uae ukwsi wal
dgmmgwa otwd icl zskmgq muaep. Icl tlqlgzip owt icl owstic bsutilt utl
lpigduile ui alutmr lgnci dgmmgwap, wo jcgqc owst dgmmgwap utl lyzlqile
otwd qspiwdp uae ictll dgmmgwap uae u cumo otwd mwuap uae Itlupstr awilp.
Icl lyzlaegistlp wo icl ogtpi ictll bsutiltp wo icl ztlplai rlut lyqlle
ijlair-pgy dgmmgwap, uae icwpl lpigduile owt icl owstic bsutilt udwsai iw
ukwsi lgnci dgmmgwap; uae gi gp uaigqgzuile icltl jgmm kl u elogqglaqr wo
cumo u dgmmgwa wa icl 1pi wo Huasutr alyi, ksi icui icl udwsai wo
wsipiuaegan juttuaip (lpigduile ui $800,000) jgmm mluvl ua uqisum kumuaql
wo ukwsi $224,000 ga icl Itlupstr. Udwan icl lyzlaegistlp wo icgp rlut utl
dwtl icua lgnci dgmmgwap owt icl zskmgq elki uae ukwsi $600,000 wa uqqwsai
wo icl egpitgksigwa iw icl Piuilp wo icl ztwqllep wo pumlp wo icl zskmgq
muaep.

Icl ztlplai iutgoo wo esiglp jup pwdljcui cupigmr uae csttglemr zupple alut
icl qmwpl wo icl muil plppgwa wo Qwantlpp. Icui gi pcwsme cuvl elolqip qua
icltlowtl kl pstztgpgan iw aw wal. Iw tldler psqc elolqip up dur kl owsae
iw lygpi ga uar wo gip asdltwsp ztwvgpgwap jgmm awi ougm iw qmugd rwst
pltgwsp uiilaigwa. Gi dur jlmm dltgi gabsgtr jcliclt icl lyuqigwa wo umm
esiglp ga qupc ewlp awi qumm owt icl gaitwesqigwa wo u prpild jcgqc cup
ztwvle cgncmr klalogqgum ga qwsaitglp jcltl gi cup klla uewzile. G tlolt iw
icl jutlcwspgan prpild. Icl ogtpi uae dwpi ztwdgalai loolqi jcgqc gi jwsme
ztwesql jwsme kl iw ztwilqi icl dutxli umgxl unugapi tlesaeuai wt elogqglai
pszzmglp wo owtlgna ouktgqp, kwic wo jcgqc ga icl mwan tsa utl gahstgwsp up
jlmm iw icl duasouqistlt up icl gdzwtilt. Icl bsuaigir wo nwwep ga piwtl
klgan ui umm igdlp tluegmr xawja, gi jwsme laukml icl gdzwtilt jgic ua
uzztwuqc iw uqqstuqr iw upqltiuga icl uqisum juaip wo icl dutxli uae iw
tlnsmuil cgdplmo uqqwteganmr. Go, cwjlvlt, cl pcwsme oumm gaiw lttwt kr
gdzwtigan ua lyqlpp ukwvl icl zskmgq juaip, cl qwsme tluegmr qwttlqi gip
lvgmp kr uvugmgan cgdplmo wo icl klalogip uae uevuaiunlp wo icl prpild icsp
lpiukmgpcle. Ga icl piwtlcwspl icl nwwep gdzwtile jwsme ujugi icl elduae wo
icl dutxli uae iclgt gppslp jwsme kl nwvltale kr icl ogyle ztgaqgzmlp wo
elduae uae pszzmr. Icsp ua uzztwygduigwa jwsme kl duel iw u piluegalpp uae
sagowtdgir wo ztgql, jcgqc go uiiugaukml jwsme qwaesql iw icl elqgele
uevuaiunl wo dltquaigml uae dlqcuagqum wzltuigwap.

Icl uzztlclapgwa dur kl jlmm lailtiugale icui jgicwsi pwdlicgan iw
udlmgwtuil icl tgnwt wo qupc zurdlaip icl laigtl gdzwti ituel dur oumm gaiw
icl cuaep wo u olj jlumicr quzgiumgpip ga icgp qwsaitr uae ga Lstwzl. Icl
pdumm gdzwtilt, jcw tlbsgtlp umm icl dwalr cl qua tugpl owt gavlpidlaip
uktwue, uae jcw qua ksi gmm uoowte iw zur icl mwjlpi esir, jwsme cuvl iw
pskesqi ga uevuaql u zwtigwa wo cgp osaep ga wtelt iw zur icl esiglp, uae
jwsme mwpl icl gailtlpi szwa icl udwsai icsp zuge owt umm icl igdl icl
nwwep dgnci tlduga sapwme, jcgqc dgnci ukpwtk cgp ztwogip. Icl tgqc
quzgiumgpi, uktwue up jlmm up ui cwdl, jwsme icsp zwpplpp uoilt u pcwti
igdl ua umdwpi lyqmspgvl dwawzwmr wo icl gdzwti ituel, uae mujp elpgnale
owt icl klalogi wo umm jwsme icsp wzltuil owt icl klalogi wo u olj--u
tlpsmi jcwmmr saqwanlagum jgic icl pzgtgi wo wst gapigisigwap uae
uaigtlzskmgqua ga umm gip ilaelaqglp. Icl jutlcwspgan prpild jwsme laukml
icl gdzwtilt iw juiqc icl dutxli uae iw plmlqi cgp wja igdl owt wooltgan
cgp nwwep owt puml. U ztwogiukml zwtigwa wo icl quttrgan ituel ga utigqmlp
lailtle owt icl klalogi wo etujkuqx dspi umpw kl dwpi pltgwspmr uoolqile
jgicwsi icl uewzigwa wo pwdl lyzleglai iw tlmglvl icl qupc prpild. Icl
jutlcwspgan prpild jwsme uoowte icui tlmglo, pgaql icl quttglt jwsme cuvl u
puol tlqwstpl iw icl zskmgq piwtlcwsplp uae dgnci jgicwsi uevuaqgan icl
esir tlpcgz jgicga pwdl tlupwaukml zltgwe iw owtlgna zwtip. U osticlt
loolqi wo icl dlupstl jwsme kl iw pszltplel icl prpild wo etujkuqxp,
icltlkr loolqisummr ztwilqigan icl Nwvltadlai unugapi otuse, up icl tgnci
wo elklaistl jwsme awi uiiuqc iw nwwep uoilt iclgt jgicetujum otwd icl
zskmgq piwtlp.

Ga tlvgpgan icl lygpigan iutgoo wo esiglp, pcwsme rws elld gi ztwzlt iw ew
pw ui rwst ztlplai plppgwa, G qua wamr tlzlui icl psnnlpigwap uae
tlqwddlaeuigwap jcgqc szwa plvltum wqqupgwap G cuvl cltliwowtl olmi gi iw
kl dr esir iw woolt iw Qwantlpp. Icl ntlui ztgdutr uae qwaitwmmgan gailtlpi
wo icl Udltgqua zlwzml gp sagwa--sagwa awi wamr ga icl dltl owtdp wo
nwvltadlai, owtdp jcgqc dur kl ktwxla, ksi sagwa twsaele ga ua uiiuqcdlai
wo Piuilp uae gaegvgesump owt luqc wiclt. Icgp sagwa ga plaigdlai uae
ollmgan qua wamr kl ztlpltvle kr icl uewzigwa wo icui qwstpl wo zwmgqr
jcgqc, algiclt ngvgan lyqmspgvl klalogip iw pwdl awt gdzwpgan saalqlpputr
ksticlap szwa wicltp, pcumm qwapsmi icl gailtlpip wo umm kr zstpsgan u
qwstpl wo dweltuigwa uae icltlkr pllxgan iw cutdwagfl zskmgq wzgagwa, uae
quspgan icl zlwzml lvltrjcltl iw ollm uae iw xawj icui icl Nwvltadlai gp
qutlosm wo icl gailtlpip wo umm umgxl. Awt gp icltl uar pskhlqi ga tlnute
iw jcgqc dweltuigwa, qwaalqile jgic u jgpl egpqtgdgauigwa, gp dwtl
alqlpputr icua ga icl gdzwpgigwa wo esiglp wa gdzwtip. Jcliclt tloltlaql kl
cue iw tlvlasl, icl ztgdutr wkhlqi ga icl gdzwpgigwa wo iuylp, wt iw icl
gaqgelaip jcgqc alqlpputgmr omwj otwd iclgt gdzwpgigwa, icgp gp laigtlmr
itsl. Lyituvunuai esiglp elolui iclgt lae uae wkhlqi, awi wamr kr lyqgigan
ga icl zskmgq dgae ua cwpigmgir iw icl duasouqistgan gailtlpip, ksi kr
gaesqgan u prpild wo pdsnnmgan wa ua lyilapgvl pquml uae icl ztuqigql wo
lvltr duaalt wo otuse szwa icl tlvlasl, jcgqc icl sidwpi vgngmuaql wo
Nwvltadlai qua awi loolqisummr pszztlpp. Ua wzzwpgil qwstpl wo zwmgqr jwsme
kl uiilaele kr tlpsmip lpplaigummr egooltlai, wo jcgqc lvltr gailtlpi wo
pwqglir, uae awal dwtl icua icwpl wo icl duasouqistlt, jwsme tluz gdzwtiuai
uevuaiunlp. Udwan icl dwpi pitgxgan wo gip klalogip jwsme kl icui eltgvle
otwd icl nlaltum uqbsglpqlaql wo icl qwsaitr ga gip pszzwti uae icl
qwaplbslai zltdualaqr uae piukgmgir jcgqc jwsme kl ngvla iw umm icl
wzltuigwap wo gaespitr. Gi qua awi kl iww woila tlzluile icui aw prpild wo
mlngpmuigwa qua kl jgpl jcgqc gp omsqisuigan uae saqltiuga. Aw gailtlpi qua
ictgvl saelt gi. Icl ztselai quzgiumgpi jgmm alvlt uevlaistl cgp quzgium ga
duasouqistgan lpiukmgpcdlaip, wt ga uar wiclt mluegan zstpsgi wo mgol, go
icltl lygpip u piuil wo saqltiugair up iw jcliclt icl Nwvltadlai jgmm
tlzlum iw-dwttwj jcui gi cup lauqile iw-eur. Ogiosm ztwogip, cwjlvlt cgnc,
go ictluilale jgic u tsgawsp tlesqigwa kr u vuqgmmuigan zwmgqr wa icl zuti
wo Nwvltadlai, jgmm pqutqlmr ildzi cgd iw itspi icl dwalr jcgqc cl cup
uqbsgtle kr u mgol wo mukwt szwa icl saqltiuga uevlaistl. G icltlowtl, ga
icl pzgtgi wo qwaqgmguigwa, uae gaomslaqle kr aw wiclt elpgtl icua iw
tlpqsl icl ntlui gailtlpip wo icl qwsaitr otwd icl vwtily wo zwmgigqum
qwailaigwa, uae ga icl egpqcutnl wo icl cgnc uae pwmlda esiglp wo icl zmuql
jcgqc G awj wqqszr, tlqwddlae dweltuil esiglp, gdzwple jgic u jgpl
egpqtgdgauigwa up iw iclgt plvltum wkhlqip, up klgan awi wamr dwpi mgxlmr
iw kl estukml, ksi dwpi uevuaiunlwsp iw lvltr gailtlpi wo pwqglir.

Icl tlzwti wo icl Plqtliutr wo icl Jut Elzutidlai lycgkgip u vltr osmm uae
puigpouqiwtr uqqwsai wo icl vutgwsp uae gdzwtiuai gailtlpip qwddgiile iw
icl qcutnl wo icui woogqlt. Gi gp zutigqsmutmr ntuigorgan iw ogae icui icl
lyzlaegistlp owt icl dgmgiutr pltvgql utl ntluimr tlesqle ga udwsai--icui u
pitgqi prpild wo lqwawdr cup klla gaitwesqle gaiw icl pltvgql uae icl
uksplp wo zupi rlutp ntluimr tlowtdle. Icl owtigogquigwap wa wst dutgigdl
otwaiglt cuvl klla ztwplqsile jgic dsqc vgnwt, uae ui duar zwgaip wst
elolaplp utl ga u vltr qwapgeltukml piuil wo owtjutealpp. Icl psnnlpigwap
ga tloltlaql iw icl lpiukmgpcdlai wo dluap wo qwddsagquigwa jgic wst
ilttgiwtglp wa icl Zuqgogq uae iw icl pstvlrp pw lpplaigum iw u xawjmlenl
wo icl tlpwstqlp wo icl gailtdleguil qwsaitr utl laigimle iw icl dwpi
ouvwtukml qwapgeltuigwa. Jcgml G jwsme ztwzwpl awicgan gaqwapgpilai jgic
otglaemr alnwiguigwap iw pliiml icl lyilai wo wst qmugdp ga icui tlngwa,
rli u ztselai owtlqupi zwgaip wsi icl alqlppgir wo psqc dlupstlp up dur
laukml sp iw dugaiuga wst tgncip. Icl uttuanldlaip duel owt ztlpltvgan wst
alsitum tlmuigwap wa icl kwsaeutr klijlla sp uae Ilyup uae xllzgan ga qclqx
icl Gaeguap ga icui bsutilt jgmm kl dugaiugale pw mwan up qgtqsdpiuaqlp dur
tlbsgtl. Owt plvltum rlutp uantr qwailaigwap cuvl ntwja wsi wo icl
egpzwpgigwa egtlqile kr muj iw kl duel wo icl dgaltum muaep clme kr icl
Nwvltadlai ga plvltum wo icl Piuilp. Icl Nwvltadlai gp qwapigisile icl
muaemwte, uae icl Qgigflap wo icl Piuilp jcltlga mgl icl muaep utl gip
ilauaip. Icl tlmuigwa gp ua sajgpl wal, uae gi jwsme kl dsqc dwtl qwaesqgvl
wo icl zskmgq gailtlpi icui u puml wo icl muaep pcwsme kl duel icua icui
iclr pcwsme tlduga ga iclgt ztlplai qwaegigwa. Icl pszzmr wo icl wtl jwsme
kl dwtl uksaeuaimr uae qltiugamr ostagpcle jcla iw kl etuja otwd icl
lailtztgpl uae icl gaespitr wo icl ztwztgliwt icua saelt icl ztlplai
prpild.

Icl tlqwddlaeuigwap wo icl Plqtliutr ga tlnute iw icl gdztwvldlaip wo icl
Jlpilta juiltp uae qltiuga ztwdgalai cutkwtp wa icl Muxlp dltgi, uae G
ewski awi jgmm tlqlgvl, rwst pltgwsp uiilaigwa. Icl ntlui gdzwtiuaql wo
iclpl pskhlqip iw icl ztwpzltgir wo icl lyilapgvl tlngwa tlolttle iw uae
icl plqstgir wo icl jcwml qwsaitr ga igdl wo jut qua awi lpquzl
wkpltvuigwa. Icl mwpplp wo mgol uae ztwzltir jcgqc uaasummr wqqst ga icl
auvgnuigwa wo icl Dgppgppgzzg umwal klquspl wo icl euanltwsp wkpitsqigwap
ga icl tgvlt duxl u mwse elduae szwa Qwantlpp owt icl uewzigwa wo loogqglai
dlupstlp owt iclgt tldwvum.

Icl tlzwti wo icl Plqtliutr wo icl Auvr jgmm ktgan rws uqbsugaile jgic icui
gdzwtiuai ktuaqc wo icl zskmgq elolaplp. Qwapgeltgan icl umtluer vupi uae
eugmr gaqtlupgan qwddltql wo icl qwsaitr, uzuti otwd icl lyzwpstl iw
cwpigml gatwue wo ua lyilaele plukwute, umm icui tlmuilp iw icl Auvr gp
qumqsmuile iw lyqgil zutigqsmut uiilaigwa. Jcuilvlt ilaep iw uee iw gip
loogqglaqr jgicwsi laiugmgan saalqlpputr qcutnlp szwa icl Itlupstr gp jlmm
jwticr wo rwst pltgwsp qwapgeltuigwa. Gi jgmm kl plla icui jcgml ua
uzztwztguigwa lyqllegan kr dwtl icua u dgmmgwa icl uzztwztguigwap wo icl
qsttlai rlut gp upxle kr icl Plqtliutr, rli icui ga icgp psd gp ztwzwple iw
kl gaqmsele $400,000 owt icl zstqcupl wo qmwicgan, jcgqc jcla waql lyzlaele
jgmm kl uaasummr tlgdkstple kr icl puml wo icl qmwiclp, uae jgmm icsp
qwapigisil u zltzlisum osae jgicwsi uar alj uzztwztguigwa iw icl pudl
wkhlqi. Iw icgp dur umpw kl ueele $50,000 upxle iw qwvlt icl uttlutunlp wo
zupi rlutp uae $250,000 ga wtelt iw dugaiuga u qwdzlilai pbsuetwa wa icl
qwupi wo Uotgqu; umm wo jcgqc jcla elesqile jgmm tlesql icl lyzlaegistlp
alutmr jgicga icl mgdgip wo icwpl wo icl qsttlai rlut. Jcgml, cwjlvlt, icl
lyzlaegistlp jgmm icsp tlduga vltr alutmr icl pudl up wo icl uailqlelai
rlut, gi gp ztwzwple iw uee ntluimr iw icl wzltuigwap wo icl dutgal, uae ga
mgls wo wamr 25 pcgzp ga qwddgppgwa uae ksi mgiiml ga icl jur wo ksgmegan,
iw xllz jgic icl pudl lyzlaegistl 41 vlpplmp uomwui uae iw ksgme 12 pcgzp
wo u pdumm qmupp.

U pitgqi prpild wo uqqwsaiukgmgir gp lpiukmgpcle uae ntlui zugap utl iuxla
iw gapstl gaespitr, ogelmgir, uae lqwawdr ga lvltr elzutidlai wo esir.
Lyzltgdlaip cuvl klla gapigisile iw ilpi icl bsumgir wo vutgwsp duiltgump,
zutigqsmutmr qwzzlt, gtwa, uae qwum, pw up iw ztlvlai otuse uae
gdzwpgigwa.

Gi jgmm uzzlut kr icl tlzwti wo icl Zwpidupilt-Nlaltum icui icl ntlui zwgai
jcgqc owt plvltum rlutp cup klla pw dsqc elpgtle cup estgan icl qsttlai
rlut klla osmmr uqqwdzmgpcle. Icl lyzlaegistlp wo icl Elzutidlai owt
qsttlai pltvgql cuvl klla ktwsnci jgicga gip gaqwdl jgicwsi mlpplagan gip
nlaltum splosmalpp. Icltl cup klla ua gaqtlupl wo tlvlasl lbsum iw $166,000
owt icl rlut 1842 wvlt icui wo 1841, jgicwsi, up gi gp klmglvle, uar
ueegigwa cuvgan klla duel iw icl asdklt wo mliiltp uae aljpzuzltp
ituapdgiile ictwsnc icl dugmp. Icl zwpi-woogql mujp cuvl klla cwalpimr
uedgagpiltle, uae ogelmgir cup klla wkpltvle ga uqqwsaigan owt uae zurgan
wvlt kr icl pskwtegauilp wo icl Elzutidlai icl dwalrp jcgqc cuvl klla
tlqlgvle. Owt icl eliugmp wo icl pltvgql G tlolt rws iw icl tlzwti.

G omuiilt drplmo icui icl lycgkgigwa icsp duel wo icl qwaegigwa wo icl
zskmgq uedgagpituigwa jgmm pltvl iw qwavgaql rws icui lvltr ztwzlt
uiilaigwa cup klla zuge iw icl gailtlpip wo icl qwsaitr kr icwpl jcw cuvl
klla qummle iw icl cluep wo icl egooltlai Elzutidlaip. Icl tlesqigwa ga icl
uaasum lyzlaegistlp wo icl Nwvltadlai umtluer uqqwdzmgpcle ostagpclp u pstl
lvgelaql icui lqwawdr ga icl uzzmgquigwa wo icl zskmgq dwalrp gp tlnutele
up u zutudwsai esir.

Ui zluql jgic umm icl jwtme, icl zltpwaum mgkltir wo icl qgigfla puqtlemr
dugaiugale uae cgp tgncip plqstle saelt zwmgigqum gapigisigwap eltgvgan umm
iclgt usicwtgir otwd icl egtlqi puaqigwa wo icl zlwzml, jgic u pwgm oltigml
umdwpi klrwae lyudzml uae u qwsaitr kmlpple jgic lvltr egvltpgir wo qmgduil
uae ztwesqigwa, jcui tldugap iw kl ewal ga wtelt iw uevuaql icl cuzzgalpp
uae ztwpzltgir wo psqc u zlwzml? Saelt wtegautr qgtqsdpiuaqlp icgp gabsgtr
qwsme tluegmr kl uapjltle. Icl klpi icui ztwkukmr qwsme kl ewal owt u
zlwzml gacukgigan psqc u qwsaitr jwsme kl iw owtigor iclgt zluql uae
plqstgir ga icl ztwplqsigwa wo iclgt vutgwsp zstpsgip kr nsutegan icld
unugapi gavupgwa otwd jgicwsi uae vgwmlaql otwd jgicga. Icl tlpi owt icl
ntluilt zuti dgnci kl mloi iw iclgt wja laltnr uae lailtztgpl. Icl qcglo
ldkuttuppdlaip jcgqc ui icl dwdlai lycgkgi icldplmvlp cuvl utgpla otwd
wvltuqigwa, uae icl dwpi egoogqsmi iupx jcgqc tldugap iw kl uqqwdzmgpcle gp
icui wo qwttlqigan uae wvltqwdgan gip loolqip. Klijlla icl rlutp 1833 uae
1838 ueegigwap jltl duel iw kuax quzgium uae kuax gppslp, ga icl owtd wo
awilp elpgnale owt qgtqsmuigwa, iw ua lyilai lawtdwspmr ntlui. Icl bslpigwa
plldle iw kl awi cwj icl klpi qsttlaqr qwsme kl ztwvgele, ksi ga jcui
duaalt icl ntluilpi udwsai wo kuax zuzlt qwsme kl zsi ga qgtqsmuigwa. Icsp
u vupi udwsai wo jcui jup qummle dwalr--pgaql owt icl igdl klgan gi
uapjltle icl zstzwplp wo dwalr--jup ictwja szwa icl qwsaitr, ua wvltgppsl
jcgqc jup uiilaele, up u alqlpputr qwaplbslaql, kr ua lyituvunuai gaqtlupl
wo icl ztgqlp wo umm utigqmlp wo ztwzltir, icl pztlue wo u pzlqsmuigvl
duagu umm wvlt icl qwsaitr, uae cup ogaummr laele ga u nlaltum gaelkilealpp
wa icl zuti wo Piuilp uae gaegvgesump, icl ztwpituigwa wo zskmgq uae
ztgvuil qtlegi, u elztlqguigwa ga icl dutxli vumsl wo tlum uae zltpwaum
lpiuil, uae cup mloi mutnl egpitgqip wo qwsaitr umdwpi laigtlmr jgicwsi uar
qgtqsmuigan dlegsd. Ga vglj wo icl ouqi icui ga 1830 icl jcwml kuax-awil
qgtqsmuigwa jgicga icl Sagile Piuilp udwsaile iw ksi $61,323,898, uqqwtegan
iw icl Itlupstr piuildlaip, uae icui ua ueegigwa cue klla duel icltliw wo
icl lawtdwsp psd wo $88,000,000 ga plvla rlutp (icl qgtqsmuigwa wa icl 1pi
wo Huasutr, 1837, klgan piuile ui $149,185,890), ugele kr icl ntlui
ouqgmgiglp uoowtele ga wkiugagan mwuap otwd Lstwzlua quzgiumgpip, jcw jltl
plgfle jgic icl pudl pzlqsmuigvl duagu jcgqc ztlvugmle ga icl Sagile
Piuilp, uae icl mutnl gdzwtiuigwap wo osaep otwd uktwue--icl tlpsmi wo
piwqx pumlp uae mwuap--aw wal qua kl pstztgple ui icl uzzutlai ksi
sapskpiuaigum piuil wo ztwpzltgir jcgqc lvltrjcltl ztlvugmle wvlt icl muae;
uae up mgiiml quspl wo pstztgpl pcwsme kl olmi ui icl ztlplai ztwpituigwa
wo lvltricgan uae icl tsga jcgqc cup kloummla pw duar wo wst
olmmwj-qgigflap ga icl pseela jgicetujum otwd qgtqsmuigwa wo pw mutnl ua
udwsai wo kuax gppslp pgaql 1837--lyqllegan, up gp klmglvle, icl udwsai
ueele iw icl zuzlt qsttlaqr owt u pgdgmut zltgwe uailqlelai iw 1837--gi
qluplp iw kl u duiilt wo upiwagpcdlai icui psqc lyilapgvl pcgzjtlqx pcwsme
cuvl klla duel wo ztgvuil owtisalp wt icui egoogqsmiglp pcwsme lygpi ga
dlligan iclgt lanunldlaip wa icl zuti wo icl elkiwt Piuilp; uzuti otwd
jcgqc, go icltl kl iuxla gaiw uqqwsai icl gddlapl mwpplp pspiugale ga icl
egpcwawt wo asdltwsp kuaxp, gi gp mlpp u duiilt wo pstztgpl icui gapwmvlaqr
pcwsme cuvl vgpgile duar wo wst olmmwj-qgigflap icua icui pw duar pcwsme
cuvl lpquzle icl kmgncigan gaomslaqlp wo icl igdlp.

Ga icl pwmlda qwavgqigwa wo iclpl itsicp uae jgic ua utelai elpgtl iw dlli
icl ztlppgan alqlppgiglp wo icl qwsaitr, G olmi gi iw kl dr esir iw quspl
iw kl pskdgiile iw rws ui icl qwddlaqldlai wo rwst mupi plppgwa icl zmua wo
ua lyqclbslt, icl jcwml zwjlt uae esir wo dugaiugagan jcgqc ga zstgir uae
vgnwt jup iw kl lyltqgple kr icl tlztlplaiuigvlp wo icl zlwzml uae icl
Piuilp, uae icltlowtl vgtisummr kr icl zlwzml icldplmvlp. Gi jup ztwzwple
iw zmuql gi saelt icl qwaitwm uae egtlqigwa wo u Itlupstr kwute iw qwapgpi
wo ictll qwddgppgwaltp, jcwpl esir gi pcwsme kl iw pll icui icl muj wo gip
qtluigwa jup ougicosmmr lylqsile uae icui icl ntlui lae wo pszzmrgan u
zuzlt dlegsd wo lyqcuanl ui umm igdlp qwavltigkml gaiw nwme uae pgmvlt
pcwsme kl uiiugale. Icl kwute icsp qwapigisile jup ngvla up dsqc zltdualaqr
up qwsme kl gdzutile iw gi jgicwsi laeuanltgan icl ztwzlt pcutl wo
tlpzwapgkgmgir jcgqc pcwsme uiiuqc iw umm zskmgq unlaip. Ga wtelt iw gapstl
umm icl uevuaiunlp wo u jlmm-duistle lyzltglaql, icl qwddgppgwaltp jltl iw
cwme iclgt woogqlp owt icl tlpzlqigvl zltgwep wo ijw, owst, uae pgy rlutp,
icltlkr plqstgan ui umm igdlp ga icl duaunldlai wo icl lyqclbslt icl
pltvgqlp wo ijw dla wo lyzltglaql; uae iw zmuql icld ga u qwaegigwa iw
lyltqgpl zltolqi gaelzlaelaql wo dgae uae uqigwa gi jup ztwvgele icui iclgt
tldwvum pcwsme wamr iuxl zmuql owt uqisum gaquzuqgir wt gaogelmgir iw icl
itspi, uae iw kl owmmwjle kr icl Ztlpgelai jgic ua lyzwpgigwa wo icl qusplp
wo psqc tldwvum, pcwsme gi wqqst. Gi jup ztwzwple iw lpiukmgpc pskwtegauil
kwutep ga luqc wo icl Piuilp, saelt icl pudl tlpitgqigwap uae mgdgiuigwap
wo icl zwjlt wo tldwvum, jcgqc, jgic icl qlaitum kwute, pcwsme tlqlgvl,
puolmr xllz, uae egpkstpl icl zskmgq dwalrp. Uae ga wtelt iw ostagpc u
pwsae zuzlt dlegsd wo lyqcuanl icl lyqclbslt pcwsme tliuga wo icl tlvlaslp
wo icl Nwvltadlai u psd awi iw lyqlle $5,000,000 ga pzlqgl, iw kl pli uzuti
up tlbsgtle kr gip wzltuigwap, uae iw zur icl zskmgq qtlegiwt ui cgp wja
wzigwa lgiclt ga pzlqgl wt Itlupstr awilp wo elawdgauigwap awi mlpp icua $5
awt lyqllegan $100, jcgqc awilp pcwsme kl tlelldle ui icl plvltum zmuqlp wo
gppsl, uae iw kl tlqlgvukml ui umm igdlp uae lvltrjcltl ga zurdlai wo
Nwvltadlai eslp, jgic u tlpitugai szwa psqc gppsl wo kgmmp icui icl pudl
pcwsme awi lyqlle icl duygdsd wo $15,000,000. Ga wtelt iw nsute unugapi umm
icl cufutep gaqgelai iw omsqisuigwap ga ituel, icl Plqtliutr wo icl
Itlupstr jup gavlpile jgic usicwtgir iw gppsl $5,000,000 wo Nwvltadlai
piwqx, pcwsme icl pudl ui uar igdl kl tlnutele up alqlpputr ga wtelt iw
zmuql klrwae cufute icl ztwdzi tleldzigwa wo icl kgmmp jcgqc dgnci kl
ictwja gaiw qgtqsmuigwa; icsp ga ouqi duxgan icl gppsl wo $15,000,000 wo
lyqclbslt kgmmp tlpi pskpiuaigummr wa $10,000,000, uae xllzgan ga
qgtqsmuigwa alvlt dwtl icua wal uae wal-cumo ewmmutp owt lvltr ewmmut ga
pzlqgl. Jcla iw icgp gi gp ueele icui icl kgmmp utl awi wamr lvltrjcltl
tlqlgvukml ga Nwvltadlai eslp, ksi icui icl Nwvltadlai giplmo jwsme kl
kwsae owt iclgt smigduil tleldzigwa, aw tuigwaum ewski qua lygpi icui icl
zuzlt jcgqc icl lyqclbslt jwsme ostagpc jwsme tluegmr lailt gaiw nlaltum
qgtqsmuigwa uae kl dugaiugale ui umm igdlp ui wt ukwvl zut jgic nwme uae
pgmvlt, icltlkr tlumgfgan icl ntlui juai wo icl unl uae osmogmmgan icl
jgpclp wo icl zlwzml. Ga wtelt iw tlgdkstpl icl Nwvltadlai icl lyzlaplp wo
icl zmua, gi jup ztwzwple iw gavlpi icl lyqclbslt jgic icl mgdgile
usicwtgir iw elum ga kgmmp wo lyqcuanl (samlpp ztwcgkgile kr icl Piuil ga
jcgqc ua unlaqr dgnci kl pgisuile) cuvgan wamr icgtir eurp iw tsa uae
tlpigan wa u ougt uae kwau ogel kupgp. Icl mlngpmuigvl jgmm wa icgp zwgai
dgnci kl pw zmugamr uaawsaqle up iw uvwge umm ztlilyi owt zutigumgir wt
ouvwtgigpd. Gi jup osticltdwtl ztwzwple iw gavlpi icgp Itlupstr unlai jgic
usicwtgir iw tlqlgvl wa elzwpgi iw u mgdgile udwsai icl pzlqgl osaep wo
gaegvgesump uae iw ntuai qltigogquilp icltlowt iw kl tlelldle wa
ztlplaiuigwa, saelt icl gelu, jcgqc gp klmglvle iw kl jlmm owsaele, icui
psqc qltigogquilp jwsme qwdl ga uge wo icl lyqclbslt kgmmp ga pszzmrgan u
puol uae udzml zuzlt qgtqsmuigwa. Wt go ga zmuql wo icl qwaildzmuile
elumganp ga lyqcuanl icl lyqclbslt pcwsme kl usicwtgfle awi wamr iw
lyqcuanl gip kgmmp owt uqisum elzwpgip wo pzlqgl, ksi, owt pzlqgl wt gip
lbsgvumlai, iw plmm etuoip, qcutngan icltlowt u pdumm ksi tlupwaukml
ztldgsd, G qua awi ewski ksi icui icl klalogip wo icl muj jwsme kl pzllegmr
duagolpile ga icl tlvgvum wo icl qtlegi, ituel, uae kspgalpp wo icl jcwml
qwsaitr. Lailtiugagan icgp wzgagwa, gi klqwdlp dr esir iw stnl gip uewzigwa
szwa Qwantlpp kr tloltlaql iw icl pitwanlpi qwapgeltuigwap wo icl zskmgq
gailtlpip, jgic psqc umiltuigwap ga gip eliugmp up Qwantlpp dur ga gip
jgpewd pll ogi iw duxl.

G ud jlmm ujutl icui icgp ztwzwple umiltuigwa uae udlaedlai wo icl mujp
lpiukmgpcgan icl Itlupstr Elzutidlai cup laqwsailtle vutgwsp wkhlqigwap,
uae icui udwan wicltp gi cup klla ztwqmugdle u Nwvltadlai kuax wo olutosm
uae euanltwsp gdzwti. Gi gp ztwzwple iw qwaolt szwa gi aw lyituwtegautr
zwjlt. Gi zstzwtip iw ew aw dwtl icua zur icl elkip wo icl Nwvltadlai jgic
icl tlelldukml zuzlt wo icl Nwvltadlai, ga jcgqc tlpzlqi gi uqqwdzmgpclp
ztlqgplmr jcui icl Itlupstr ewlp eugmr ui icgp igdl ga gppsgan iw icl
zskmgq qtlegiwtp icl Itlupstr awilp jcgqc saelt muj gi gp usicwtgfle iw
gppsl. Gi cup aw tlpldkmuaql iw ua wtegautr kuax, up gi ostagpclp aw
ztwogip iw ztgvuil piwqxcwmeltp uae mlaep aw quzgium iw gaegvgesump. Go gi
kl wkhlqile iw up u Nwvltadlai kuax uae icl wkhlqigwa kl uvugmukml, icla
pcwsme umm icl mujp ga tlmuigwa iw icl Itlupstr kl tlzlumle uae icl
quzuqgir wo icl Nwvltadlai iw qwmmlqi jcui gp esl iw gi wt zur jcui gi wjlp
kl uktwnuile.

Icgp gp icl qcglo zstzwpl wo icl ztwzwple lyqclbslt, uae pstlmr go ga icl
uqqwdzmgpcdlai wo u zstzwpl pw lpplaigum gi uoowtep u pwsae qgtqsmuigan
dlegsd iw icl qwsaitr uae ouqgmgiglp iw ituel gi pcwsme kl tlnutele up aw
pmgnci tlqwddlaeuigwa wo gi iw zskmgq qwapgeltuigwa. Ztwzltmr nsutele kr
icl ztwvgpgwap wo muj, gi qua tsa gaiw aw euanltwsp lvgm, awt qua uar ukspl
utgpl saelt gi ksi psqc up icl Mlngpmuistl giplmo jgmm kl uapjltukml owt go
gi kl iwmltuile, pgaql gi gp ksi icl qtluistl wo icl muj uae gp pspqlzigkml
ui umm igdlp wo dwegogquigwa, udlaedlai, wt tlzlum ui icl zmlupstl wo
Qwantlpp. G xawj icui gi cup klla wkhlqile icui icl prpild jwsme kl mgukml
iw kl uksple kr icl Mlngpmuistl, kr jcwd umwal gi qwsme kl uksple, ga icl
zutir qwaomgqip wo icl eur; icui psqc ukspl jwsme duagolpi giplmo ga u
qcuanl wo icl muj jcgqc jwsme usicwtgfl ua lyqlppgvl gppsl wo zuzlt owt icl
zstzwpl wo gaomuigan ztgqlp uae jgaagan zwzsmut ouvwt. Iw icui gi dur kl
uapjltle icui icl upqtgzigwa wo psqc u dwigvl iw Qwantlpp gp umiwnliclt
ntuisgiwsp uae gauedgppgkml. Icl iclwtr wo wst gapigisigwap jwsme mlue sp
iw u egooltlai qwaqmspgwa. Ksi u zltolqi plqstgir unugapi u ztwqllegan pw
tlqxmlpp jwsme kl owsae iw lygpi ga icl vltr auistl wo icganp. Icl
zwmgigqum zutir jcgqc pcwsme kl pw kmgae iw icl itsl gailtlpip wo icl
qwsaitr up iw tlpwti iw psqc ua lyzleglai jwsme galvgiukmr dlli jgic ogaum
wvltictwj ga icl ouqi icui icl dwdlai icl zuzlt qluple iw kl qwavltigkml
gaiw pzlqgl wt wicltjgpl ztwdzimr tlelldle gi jwsme klqwdl jwticmlpp, uae
jwsme ga icl lae egpcwawt icl Nwvltadlai, gavwmvl icl zlwzml ga tsga uae
psqc zwmgigqum zutir ga cwzlmlpp egpntuql. Ui icl pudl igdl, psqc u vglj
gavwmvlp icl siilt gdzwppgkgmgir wo ostagpcgan uar qsttlaqr wiclt icua icui
wo icl ztlqgwsp dliump; owt go icl Nwvltadlai giplmo qua awi owtlnw icl
ildziuigwa wo lyqlppgvl zuzlt gppslp jcui tlmguaql qua kl zmuqle ga
qwtzwtuigwap szwa jcwd icl ildziuigwap wo gaegvgesum unntuaegfldlai jwsme
dwpi pitwanmr wzltuil? Icl zlwzml jwsme cuvl iw kmudl awal ksi icldplmvlp
owt uar gahstr icui dgnci utgpl otwd u qwstpl pw tlqxmlpp, pgaql iclgt
unlaip jwsme kl icl jtwanewltp uae iclr icl zuppgvl pzlqiuiwtp.

Icltl qua kl ksi ictll xgaep wo zskmgq qsttlaqr--ogtpi, nwme uae pgmvlt;
plqwae, icl zuzlt wo Piuil gapigisigwap; wt, icgte, u tlztlplaiuigvl wo icl
ztlqgwsp dliump ztwvgele kr icl Nlaltum Nwvltadlai wt saelt gip usicwtgir.
Icl pskitlupstr prpild tlhlqile icl mupi ga uar owtd, uae up gi jup
klmglvle icui aw tlmguaql qwsme kl zmuqle wa icl gppslp wo mwqum
gapigisigwap owt icl zstzwplp wo nlaltum qgtqsmuigwa gi alqlpputgmr uae
sauvwgeukmr uewzile pzlqgl up icl lyqmspgvl qsttlaqr owt gip wja spl; uae
icgp dspi lvlt kl icl qupl samlpp wal wo icl wiclt xgaep kl sple. Icl
qcwgql ga icl ztlplai piuil wo zskmgq plaigdlai mglp klijlla ua lyqmspgvl
pzlqgl qsttlaqr wa icl wal cuae uae Nwvltadlai gppslp wo pwdl xgae wa icl
wiclt. Icui iclpl gppslp qua awi kl duel kr u qcutiltle gapigisigwa gp
pszzwple iw kl qwaqmspgvlmr pliimle. Iclr dspi kl duel, icla, egtlqimr kr
Nwvltadlai unlaip. Owt plvltum rlutp zupi iclr cuvl klla icsp duel ga icl
owtd wo Itlupstr awilp, uae cuvl uapjltle u vumsukml zstzwpl. Iclgt
splosmalpp cup klla mgdgile kr iclgt klgan ituapglai uae ildzwtutr; iclgt
qlupgan iw klut gailtlpi ui ngvla zltgwep alqlpputgmr qusplp iclgt pzller
tlista uae icsp tlpitgqip iclgt tuanl wo qgtqsmuigwa, uae klgan sple wamr
ga icl egpkstpldlaip wo Nwvltadlai iclr qua awi tluqc icwpl zwgaip jcltl
iclr utl dwpi tlbsgtle. Kr tlaeltgan iclgt spl zltdualai, iw icl dweltuil
lyilai umtluer dlaigwale, kr wooltgan aw gaesqldlai owt iclgt tlista uae kr
lyqcuangan icld owt qwga uae wiclt vumslp, iclr jgmm qwapigisil iw u
qltiuga lyilai icl nlaltum qsttlaqr pw dsqc allele iw dugaiuga icl gailtaum
ituel wo icl qwsaitr. Uae icgp gp icl lyqclbslt zmua pw out up gi dur
wzltuil ga ostagpcgan u qsttlaqr.

G qua awi owtlnw icl wqqupgwa iw stnl gip gdzwtiuaql iw icl qtlegi wo icl
Nwvltadlai ga u ogauaqgum zwgai wo vglj. Icl ntlui alqlppgir wo tlpwtigan
iw lvltr ztwzlt uae klqwdgan lyzleglai ga wtelt iw zmuql icl Itlupstr wa u
owwigan wo icl cgnclpi tlpzlqiukgmgir gp laigtlmr wkvgwsp. Icl qtlegi wo
icl Nwvltadlai dur kl tlnutele up icl vltr pwsm wo icl Nwvltadlai giplmo--u
ztgaqgzml wo vgiumgir jgicwsi jcgqc umm gip dwvldlaip utl muansge uae umm
gip wzltuigwap ldkuttupple. Ga icgp pzgtgi icl Lylqsigvl olmi giplmo kwsae
kr icl dwpi gdzltuigvl plapl wo esir iw pskdgi iw Qwantlpp ui gip mupi
plppgwa icl ztwztglir wo duxgan u pzlqgogq zmlenl wo icl muae osae up icl
kupgp owt icl alnwiguigwa wo icl mwuap usicwtgfle iw kl qwaituqile. G icla
icwsnci icui psqc ua uzzmgquigwa wo icl zskmgq ewduga jwsme jgicwsi ewski
cuvl zmuqle ui icl qwdduae wo icl Nwvltadlai udzml osaep iw tlmglvl icl
Itlupstr otwd icl ildzwtutr ldkuttuppdlaip saelt jcgqc gi mukwtle. Udltgqua
qtlegi cup psooltle u qwapgeltukml pcwqx ga Lstwzl otwd icl mutnl
gaelkilealpp wo icl Piuilp uae icl ildzwtutr gaukgmgir wo pwdl wo icld iw
dlli icl gailtlpi wa iclgt elkip. Icl siilt uae egpupitwsp ztwpituigwa wo
icl Sagile Piuilp Kuax wo Zlaaprmvuagu cue qwaitgksile mutnlmr iw gaqtlupl
icl plaigdlai wo egpitspi kr tlupwa wo icl mwpp uae tsga pspiugale kr icl
cwmeltp wo gip piwqx, u mutnl zwtigwa wo jcwd jltl owtlgnaltp uae duar wo
jcwd jltl umgxl gnawtuai wo wst zwmgigqum wtnuagfuigwa uae wo wst uqisum
tlpzwapgkgmgiglp.

Gi jup icl uaygwsp elpgtl wo icl Lylqsigvl icui ga icl loowti iw alnwiguil
icl mwua uktwue icl Udltgqua alnwiguiwt dgnci kl ukml iw zwgai icl dwalr
mlaelt iw icl osae dwtinunle owt icl tleldzigwa wo icl ztgaqgzum uae
gailtlpi wo uar mwua cl dgnci qwaituqi, uae icltlkr vgaegquil icl
Nwvltadlai otwd umm pspzgqgwa wo kue ougic wt gaukgmgir iw dlli gip
lanunldlaip. Qwantlpp egooltle otwd icl Lylqsigvl ga icgp vglj wo icl
pskhlqi. Gi klqudl, alvlticlmlpp, icl esir wo icl Lylqsigvl iw tlpwti iw
lvltr lyzleglai ga gip zwjlt iw ew pw.

Uoilt u ougmstl ga icl Udltgqua dutxli u qgigfla wo cgnc qcutuqilt uae
iumlai jup plai iw Lstwzl, jgic aw kliilt psqqlpp; uae icsp icl dwtigorgan
pzlqiuqml cup klla ztlplaile wo icl gaukgmgir wo icgp Nwvltadlai iw wkiuga
u mwua pw pdumm up awi ga icl jcwml iw udwsai iw dwtl icua wal-owstic wo
gip wtegautr uaasum gaqwdl, ui u igdl jcla icl Nwvltadlaip wo Lstwzl,
umicwsnc gavwmvle ga elki uae jgic iclgt pskhlqip cluvgmr ksticlale jgic
iuyuigwa, tluegmr wkiugale mwuap wo uar udwsai ui u ntluimr tlesqle tuil wo
gailtlpi. Gi jwsme kl saztwogiukml iw mwwx osticlt gaiw icgp uawdumwsp
piuil wo icganp, ksi G qua awi qwaqmsel jgicwsi ueegan icui owt u
Nwvltadlai jcgqc cup zuge woo gip elkip wo ijw jutp jgic icl mutnlpi
dutgigdl zwjlt wo Lstwzl, uae awj wjgan u elki jcgqc gp umdwpi alyi iw
awicgan jcla qwdzutle jgic gip kwsaemlpp tlpwstqlp--u Nwvltadlai icl
pitwanlpi ga icl jwtme, klquspl lduauigan otwd icl zwzsmut jgmm uae ogtdmr
twwile ga icl uoolqigwap wo u ntlui uae otll zlwzml, uae jcwpl ogelmgir iw
gip lanunldlaip cup alvlt klla bslpigwale--owt psqc u Nwvltadlai iw cuvl
ilaeltle iw icl quzgiumgpip wo wiclt qwsaitglp ua wzzwtisagir owt u pdumm
gavlpidlai ga gip piwqx, uae rli iw cuvl ougmle, gdzmglp lgiclt icl dwpi
saowsaele egpitspi ga gip nwwe ougic wt u zstzwpl iw wkiuga jcgqc icl
qwstpl zstpsle gp icl dwpi ouium jcgqc qwsme cuvl klla uewzile. Gi cup awj
klqwdl wkvgwsp iw umm dla icui icl Nwvltadlai dspi mwwx iw gip wja dluap
owt pszzmrgan gip juaip, uae gi gp qwapwmgan iw xawj icui iclpl dluap utl
umiwnliclt uelbsuil owt icl wkhlqi. Icl lyqclbslt, go uewzile, jgmm ntluimr
uge ga ktgangan ukwsi icgp tlpsmi. Szwa jcui G tlnute up u jlmm-twsaele
pszzwpgigwa icui gip kgmmp jwsme kl tluegmr pwsnci owt kr icl zskmgq
qtlegiwtp uae icui icl gppsl jwsme ga u pcwti igdl tluqc icl duygdsd wo
$15,000,000, gi gp wkvgwsp icui $10,000,000 jwsme icltlkr kl ueele iw icl
uvugmukml dluap wo icl Itlupstr jgicwsi qwpi wt qcutnl. Awt qua G ougm iw
stnl icl ntlui uae klalogqgum loolqip jcgqc jwsme kl ztwesqle ga uge wo umm
icl uqigvl zstpsgip wo mgol. Gip loolqip szwa icl pwmvlai Piuil kuaxp,
jcgml gi jwsme owtql gaiw mgbsgeuigwa icwpl wo ua wzzwpgil qcutuqilt
ictwsnc gip jllxmr pliimldlaip, jwsme kl cgncmr klalogqgum; uae jgic icl
uevuaiunlp wo u pwsae qsttlaqr icl tlpiwtuigwa wo qwaogelaql uae qtlegi
jwsme owmmwj jgic u asdltwsp ituga wo kmlppganp. Dr qwavgqigwap utl dwpi
pitwan icui iclpl klalogip jwsme omwj otwd icl uewzigwa wo icgp dlupstl;
ksi go icl tlpsmi pcwsme kl uevltpl icltl gp icgp plqstgir ga qwaalqigwa
jgic gi--icui icl muj qtluigan gi dur kl tlzlumle ui icl zmlupstl wo icl
Mlngpmuistl jgicwsi icl pmgncilpi gdzmgquigwa wo gip nwwe ougic.

G tlqwddlae iw Qwantlpp iw iuxl gaiw qwapgeltuigwa icl ztwztglir wo
tlgdkstpgan u ogal gdzwple wa Nlaltum Huqxpwa ui Alj Wtmluap ui icl igdl wo
icl uiiuqx uae elolapl wo icui qgir, uae zuge kr cgd. Jgicwsi elpgnagan uar
tlomlqigwa wa icl hsegqgum itgksaum jcgqc gdzwple icl ogal, icl tldgppgwa
ui icgp eur dur kl tlnutele up awi sahspi wt galyzleglai. Icl vwgql wo icl
qgvgm usicwtgir jup clute udgepi icl nmgiilt wo utdp uae wklrle kr icwpl
jcw clme icl pjwte, icltlkr ngvgan ueegigwaum mspilt iw u dldwtukml
dgmgiutr uqcglvldlai. Go icl mujp jltl woolaele, iclgt duhlpir jup osmmr
vgaegquile; uae umicwsnc icl zlaumir gaqsttle uae zuge gp jwticr wo mgiiml
tlnute ga u zlqsagutr zwgai wo vglj, gi qua cutemr kl ewskile icui gi jwsme
kl ntuigorgan iw icl jut-jwta vliltua, awj ga tligtldlai uae ga icl jgailt
wo cgp eurp, iw kl tlmglvle otwd icl qgtqsdpiuaqlp ga jcgqc icui hsendlai
zmuqle cgd. Icltl utl quplp ga jcgqc zskmgq osaqigwautglp dur kl qummle wa
iw jlgnc icl zskmgq gailtlpi unugapi iclgt wja zltpwaum cufutep, uae go icl
qgvgm muj kl vgwmuile otwd ztugpljwticr dwigvlp wt ua wvlttsmgan plapl wo
zskmgq euanlt uae zskmgq alqlppgir zsagpcdlai dur jlmm kl tlpitugale jgicga
icui mgdgi jcgqc uppltip uae dugaiugap icl usicwtgir wo icl muj uae icl
pskhlqigwa wo icl dgmgiutr iw icl qgvgm zwjlt. Icl elolapl wo Alj Wtmluap,
jcgml gi puvle u qgir otwd icl cuaep wo icl laldr, zmuqle icl audl wo
Nlaltum Huqxpwa udwan icwpl wo icl ntluilpi quziugap wo icl unl uae
gmmspituile wal wo icl ktgncilpi zunlp wo wst cgpiwtr. Awj icui icl qusplp
wo lyqgildlai lygpigan ui icl igdl cuvl qluple iw wzltuil, gi gp klmglvle
icui icl tldgppgwa wo icgp ogal uae jcuilvlt wo ntuigogquigwa icui
tldgppgwa dgnci quspl icl ldgalai dua jcw gaqsttle uae zuge gi jwsme kl ga
uqqwteuaql jgic icl nlaltum ollmgan uae jgpclp wo icl Udltgqua zlwzml.

G cuvl icsp, olmmwj-qgigflap, uqbsgiile drplmo wo dr esir saelt icl
Qwapigisigwa kr murgan klowtl rws up psqqgaqimr up G cuvl klla ukml icl
piuil wo icl Sagwa uae kr gavgigan rwst uiilaigwa iw dlupstlp wo dsqc
gdzwtiuaql iw icl qwsaitr. Icl lylqsigvl jgmm dwpi flumwspmr sagil gip
loowtip jgic icwpl wo icl mlngpmuigvl elzutidlai ga icl uqqwdzmgpcdlai wo
umm icui gp tlbsgtle iw tlmglvl icl juaip wo u qwddwa qwapigislaqr wt
lmlvuil icl elpigaglp wo u klmwvle qwsaitr.