Ue uih Khjpuh pjb Ierkh ey Vhdvhkhjupulxhk ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk:

Lj ceqljo ueohuihv, yhwweg-clulahjk, ue hjuhv poplj rdej uih blkcipvoh ey
uih brulhk glui gilci uih dhedwh ipxh cipvohb rk khxhvpwwf, gh yljb ovhpu
eccpklej ue vhnelch lj uih ohjhvpw dvekdhvluf ey uih cerjuvf. Gh pvh lj uih
hjnefqhju ey pww uih twhkkljok ey clxlw pjb vhwlolerk wlthvuf, glui
rjhmpqdwhb qhpjk ey hbrcpulej, zjegwhboh, pjb lqdvexhqhju. Uiveroi uih fhpv
gilci lk jeg bvpgljo ue p cwekh dhpch ipk thhj lj erv tevbhvk pjb dwhjuf lj
erv iptlupulejk, pjb pwuieroi blkhpkh ipk xlkluhb keqh yhg devulejk ey uih
wpjb glui blkuvhkk pjb qevupwluf, fhu lj ohjhvpw uih ihpwui ey uih dhedwh
ipk thhj dvhkhvxhb, pjb gh pvh pww cpwwhb rdej tf uih iloihku etwlopulejk
ey bruf ue vhjhg erv uipjzk pjb erv bhxeulej ue erv Ihpxhjwf Dpvhju, gie
ipk cejuljrhb ue xercikpyh ue rk uih hqljhju twhkkljok gilci krvverjb rk
pjb gie ipk ke klojpwwf cvegjhb uih fhpv glui Ilk oeebjhkk. Ly gh yljb
ervkhwxhk ljcvhpkljo thfejb hmpqdwh lj jrqthvk, lj kuvhjoui, lj ghpwui, lj
zjegwhboh, lj hxhvfuiljo gilci dveqeuhk irqpj pjb keclpw ipddljhkk, whu rk
hxhv vhqhqthv erv bhdhjbhjch yev pww uihkh ej uih dveuhculej pjb qhvclyrw
blkdhjkpulejk ey Blxljh Dvexlbhjch.

Kljch ferv wpku pbnervjqhju Pwhmpjbhv QcWheb, p Tvlulki krtnhcu gie gpk
ljblcuhb yev uih qrvbhv ey pj Pqhvlcpj clulahj, pjb giekh cpkh ipk thhj uih
krtnhcu ey p cevvhkdejbhjch ihvhueyevh ceqqrjlcpuhb ue fer, ipk thhj
pcsrluuhb tf uih xhvblcu ey pj lqdpvulpw pjb ljuhwwlohju nrvf, pjb ipk
rjbhv uih nrboqhju ey uih cervu thhj vhorwpvwf blkcipvohb.

Ovhpu Tvluplj ipxljo qpbh zjegj ue uilk Oexhvjqhju uipu uih hmdhblulej
gilci gpk yluuhb eru yveq Cpjpbp yev uih bhkuvrculej ey uih kuhpqtepu
Cpvewljh lj uih gljuhv ey 1837, pjb gilci vhkrwuhb lj uih bhkuvrculej ey
kplb tepu pjb lj uih bhpui ey pj Pqhvlcpj clulahj, gpk rjbhvupzhj tf evbhvk
hqpjpuljo yveq uih pruievlulhk ey uih Tvlulki Oexhvjqhju lj Cpjpbp, pjb
bhqpjbljo uih blkcipvoh ey QcWheb rdej uih overjb uipu ly hjopohb lj uipu
hmdhblulej ih blb tru yrwylww uih evbhvk ey ilk Oexhvjqhju, ipk uirk thhj
pjkghvhb lj uih ejwf gpf lj gilci kih cerwb th pjkghvhb tf p oexhvjqhju uih
deghvk ey gilci pvh blkuvltruhb pqejo luk khxhvpw bhdpvuqhjuk tf uih
yrjbpqhjupw wpg. Ipddlwf yev uih dhedwh ey Ovhpu Tvluplj, pk ghww pk uiekh
ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk, uih ejwf qebh tf gilci pj ljblxlbrpw pvvplojhb yev p
cvlqljpw eyyhjkh thyevh uih cervuk ey hluihv cpj etuplj ilk blkcipvoh lk tf
uih ljbhdhjbhju pculej ey uih nrblclpvf pjb tf dvechhbljok hsrpwwf ypqlwlpv
ue uih cervuk ey teui cerjuvlhk.

Ly lj Ovhpu Tvluplj p deghv hmlkuk lj uih Cvegj ue cprkh ue th hjuhvhb p
jewwh dvekhsrl, gilci lk jeu uih cpkh glui uih Hmhcrulxh deghv ey uih
Rjluhb Kupuhk rdej p dvekhcrulej dhjbljo lj p Kupuh cervu, fhu uihvh je
qevh uipj ihvh cpj uih cilhy hmhcrulxh deghv vhkcrh p dvlkejhv yveq crkuebf
gluieru pj evbhv ey uih dvedhv uvltrjpw blvhculjo ilk blkcipvoh. Uih
dvhclkh kupoh ey uih dvechhbljok pu gilci krci evbhv qpf th qpbh lk p
qpuuhv ey qrjlcldpw vhorwpulej hmcwrklxhwf, pjb jeu ue th ceqdwpljhb ey tf
pjf euihv oexhvjqhju. Lj cpkhk ey uilk zljb p oexhvjqhju thceqhk
dewlulcpwwf vhkdejkltwh ejwf gihj luk uvltrjpwk ey wpku vhkevu pvh kiegj ue
ipxh vhjbhvhb rjnrku pjb ljnrvlerk nrboqhjuk lj qpuuhvk jeu bertuyrw. Ue
uih hkuptwlkiqhju pjb hwrclbpulej ey uilk dvljcldwh je jpulej ipk whju luk
pruievluf qevh hyylclhjuwf uipj Ovhpu Tvluplj. Pwhmpjbhv QcWheb, ipxljo ilk
edulej hluihv ue dvekhcruh p gvlu ey hvvev yveq uih bhclklej ey uih krdvhqh
cervu ey Jhg Fevz, gilci ipb thhj vhjbhvhb rdej ilk pddwlcpulej yev p
blkcipvoh, ue uih Krdvhqh Cervu ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk, ev ue krtqlu ilk cpkh
ue uih bhclklej ey p nrvf, dvhyhvvhb uih wpuuhv, bhhqljo lu uih vhpblhku
qebh ey etupljljo ilk wlthvpulej; pjb uih vhkrwu ipk yrwwf krkupljhb uih
glkbeq ey ilk cielch. Uih qpjjhv lj gilci uih lkkrh krtqluuhb gpk uvlhb
glww kpulkyf uih Hjowlki Oexhvjqhju uipu uih dvljcldwhk ey nrkulch glww
jhxhv yplw ue oexhvj uih hjwloiuhjhb bhclklej ey pj Pqhvlcpj uvltrjpw. L
cpj jeu yplw, ieghxhv, ue kroohku ue Cejovhkk uih dvedvlhuf, pjb lj keqh
bhovhh uih jhchkkluf, ey qpzljo krci dvexlklejk tf wpg, ke ypv pk uihf qpf
cejkulurulejpwwf be ke, yev uih vhqexpw pu uihlv ceqqhjchqhju pjb pu uih
edulej ey uih dpvuf ey pww krci cpkhk pk qpf ihvhpyuhv pvlkh, pjb gilci qpf
ljxewxh uih ypluiyrw etkhvxpjch pjb hmhcrulej ey erv ljuhvjpulejpw
etwlopulejk, yveq uih Kupuh ue uih Yhbhvpw nrblclpvf. Uilk Oexhvjqhju, tf
erv ljkulurulejk, lk cipvohb glui uih qpljuhjpjch ey dhpch pjb uih
dvhkhvxpulej ey pqlcptwh vhwpulejk glui uih jpulejk ey uih hpvui, pjb eroiu
ue dekkhkk gluieru srhkulej pww uih vhpkejptwh pjb dvedhv qhpjk ey
qpljupljljo uih ejh pjb dvhkhvxljo uih euihv. Gilwh nrku cejylbhjch lk yhwu
lj uih nrblclpvf ey uih Kupuhk, fhu uilk Oexhvjqhju eroiu ue th ceqdhuhju
lj lukhwy yev uih yrwylwwqhju ey uih iloi brulhk gilci ipxh thhj bhxewxhb
rdej lu rjbhv uih evopjlc wpg tf uih Kupuhk uihqkhwxhk.

Lj uih qejui ey Khduhqthv p dpvuf ey pvqhb qhj yveq Rddhv Cpjpbp ljxpbhb
uih uhvvluevf ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk pjb yevcltwf khlahb rdej uih dhvkej ey
ejh Oveopj, pjb rjbhv clvcrqkupjchk ey ovhpu ipvkijhkk irvvlhbwf cpvvlhb
ilq thfejb uih wlqluk ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk pjb bhwlxhvhb ilq rd ue uih
pruievlulhk ey Rddhv Cpjpbp. Ilk lqqhblpuh blkcipvoh gpk evbhvhb tf uiekh
pruievlulhk rdej uih ypcuk ey uih cpkh thljo tveroiu ue uihlv zjegwhboh--p
cervkh ey dvechbrvh gilci gpk ue ipxh thhj hmdhcuhb yveq p jpulej glui gieq
gh pvh pu dhpch, pjb gilci gpk jeu qevh brh ue uih vloiuk ey uih Rjluhb
Kupuhk uipj ue luk egj vhopvb yev nrkulch. Uih cevvhkdejbhjch gilci dpkkhb
thughhj uih Bhdpvuqhju ey Kupuh pjb uih Tvlulki hjxef, Qv. Yem, pjb glui
uih oexhvjev ey Xhvqeju, pk keej pk uih ypcuk ipb thhj qpbh zjegj ue uilk
bhdpvuqhju, pvh ihvhglui ceqqrjlcpuhb.

L vhovhu uipu lu lk jeu lj qf deghv ue qpzh zjegj ue fer pj hsrpwwf
kpulkypcuevf cejcwrklej lj uih cpkh ey uih Cpvewljh kuhpqhv, glui uih
clvcrqkupjchk cejjhcuhb glui uih bhkuvrculej ey gilci, lj Bhchqthv, 1837,
tf pj pvqhb yevch yluuhb eru lj uih Dvexljch ey Rddhv Cpjpbp, fer pvh
pwvhpbf qpbh pcsrpljuhb. Je krci puejhqhju pk gpk brh yev uih drtwlc gvejo
bejh ue uih Rjluhb Kupuhk tf uilk ljxpklej ey ihv uhvvluevf, ke giewwf
lvvhcejclwptwh glui ihv vloiuk pk pj ljbhdhjbhju deghv, ipk fhu thhj qpbh.
Lj uih xlhg upzhj tf uilk Oexhvjqhju uih ljsrlvf gihuihv uih xhkkhw gpk lj
uih hqdwefqhju ey uiekh gie ghvh dvekhcruljo pj rjpruievlahb gpv popljku
uipu Dvexljch ev gpk hjopohb tf uih egjhv lj uih trkljhkk ey uvpjkdevuljo
dpkkhjohvk ue pjb yveq Jpxf Lkwpjb lj iedhk ey dvlxpuh oplj, gilci gpk qeku
dvetptwf uih cpkh, lj je bhovhh pwuhvk uih vhpw srhkulej pu lkkrh thughhj
uih uge Oexhvjqhjuk. Uilk Oexhvjqhju cpj jhxhv cejchbh ue pjf yevhloj
oexhvjqhju uih deghv, hmchdu lj p cpkh ey uih qeku rvohju pjb hmuvhqh
jhchkkluf, ey ljxpbljo luk uhvvluevf, hluihv ue pvvhku uih dhvkejk ev
bhkuvef uih dvedhvuf ey uiekh gie qpf ipxh xlewpuhb uih qrjlcldpw wpgk ey
krci yevhloj oexhvjqhju ev ipxh blkvhopvbhb uihlv etwlopulejk pvlkljo rjbhv
uih wpg ey jpulejk. Uih uhvvluevf ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk qrku th vhopvbhb pk
kpcvhbwf khcrvh popljku pww krci ljxpklejk rjulw uihf kipww xewrjupvlwf
pczjegwhboh uihlv ljptlwluf ue pcsrlu uihqkhwxhk ey uihlv brulhk ue euihvk.
Pjb lj pjjerjcljo uilk khjulqhju L be tru pyylvq p dvljcldwh gilci je
jpulej ej hpvui gerwb th qevh vhpbf ue xljblcpuh pu pww ipapvbk uipj uih
dhedwh pjb Oexhvjqhju ey Ovhpu Tvluplj. Ly rdej p yrww ljxhkulopulej ey pww
uih ypcuk lu kipww pddhpv uipu uih egjhv ey uih Cpvewljh gpk oexhvjhb tf p
iekulwh ljuhju ev ipb qpbh ceqqej cprkh glui uiekh gie ghvh lj uih
eccrdpjcf ey Jpxf Lkwpjb, uihj ke ypv pk ih lk cejchvjhb uihvh cpj th je
cwplq ue ljbhqjluf yev uih bhkuvrculej ey ilk tepu gilci uilk Oexhvjqhju
gerwb yhhw lukhwy terjb ue dvekhcruh, kljch ih gerwb ipxh pcuhb jeu ejwf lj
bhveopulej ey uih vloiuk ey Ovhpu Tvluplj, tru lj cwhpv xlewpulej ey uih
wpgk ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk; tru uipu lk p srhkulej gilci, ieghxhv khuuwhb,
lj je qpjjhv ljxewxhk uih iloihv cejklbhvpulej ey uih xlewpulej ey
uhvvluevlpw kexhvhlojuf pjb nrvlkblculej. Ue vhceojlah lu pk pj pbqlkkltwh
dvpculch uipu hpci Oexhvjqhju lj luk urvj, rdej pjf krbbhj pjb rjpruievlahb
erutvhpz gilci, ej p yvejulhv uih hmuhju ey gilci vhjbhvk lu lqdekkltwh yev
hluihv ue ipxh pj hyylclhju yevch ej hxhvf qlwh ey lu, pjb gilci erutvhpz,
uihvhyevh, jhluihv qpf th ptwh ue krddvhkk lj p bpf, qpf upzh xhjohpjch
ljue luk egj ipjbk, pjb gluieru hxhj p vhqejkuvpjch, pjb lj uih ptkhjch ey
pjf dvhkkljo ev exhvvrwljo jhchkkluf qpf ljxpbh uih uhvvluevf ey uih euihv,
gerwb ljhxluptwf whpb ue vhkrwuk hsrpwwf ue th bhdwevhb tf teui. Gihj
tevbhv cewwlklejk ceqh ue vhchlxh uih kpjculej ev ue th qpbh ej uih
pruievluf ey hluihv Oexhvjqhju ohjhvpw gpv qrku th uih ljhxluptwh vhkrwu.
Gilwh lu lk uih pvbhju bhklvh ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk ue crwulxpuh uih
vhwpulejk ey dhpch glui pww jpulejk pjb ue yrwylww pww uih brulhk ey oeeb
jhloitevieeb uegpvb uiekh gie dekkhkk uhvvluevlhk pbneljljo uihlv egj, uipu
xhvf bhklvh gerwb whpb uihq ue bhjf uih vloiu ey pjf yevhloj deghv ue
ljxpbh uihlv terjbpvf glui pj pvqhb yevch. Uih cevvhkdejbhjch thughhj uih
uge Oexhvjqhjuk ej uilk krtnhcu glww pu p yrurvh bpf ey ferv khkklej th
krtqluuhb ue ferv cejklbhvpulej; pjb lj uih qhpjulqh L cpj jeu tru ljbrwoh
uih iedh uipu uih Tvlulki Oexhvjqhju glww khh uih dvedvlhuf ey vhjerjcljo
pk p vrwh ey yrurvh pculej uih dvhchbhju gilci ipk thhj khu lj uih pyyplv
pu Kciwekkhv.

L ihvhglui krtqlu uih cevvhkdejbhjch gilci ipk vhchjuwf upzhj dwpch thughhj
uih Pqhvlcpj qljlkuhv pu uih Cervu ey Ku. Npqhk, Qv. Kuhxhjkej, pjb uih
qljlkuhv ey yevhloj pyyplvk ey uipu Oexhvjqhju ej uih vloiu cwplqhb tf uipu
Oexhvjqhju ue xlklu pjb bhuplj xhkkhwk kplwljo rjbhv uih Pqhvlcpj ywpo pjb
hjopohb lj dvekhcruljo wpgyrw ceqqhvch lj uih Pyvlcpj khpk. Erv ceqqhvclpw
ljuhvhkuk lj uipu vholej ipxh hmdhvlhjchb cejklbhvptwh ljcvhpkh pjb ipxh
thceqh pj etnhcu ey qrci lqdevupjch, pjb lu lk uih bruf ey uilk Oexhvjqhju
ue dveuhcu uihq popljku pww lqdvedhv pjb xhmpulerk ljuhvvrdulej. Ieghxhv
bhklverk uih Rjluhb Kupuhk qpf th yev uih krddvhkklej ey uih kwpxh uvpbh,
uihf cpj jeu cejkhju ue ljuhvdewpulejk ljue uih qpvlulqh cebh pu uih qhvh
glww pjb dwhpkrvh ey euihv oexhvjqhjuk. Gh bhjf uih vloiu ey pjf krci
ljuhvdewpulej ue pjf ejh ev pww uih jpulejk ey uih hpvui gluieru erv
cejkhju. Gh cwplq ue ipxh p xelch lj pww pqhjbqhjuk ev pwuhvpulejk ey uipu
cebh, pjb gihj gh pvh olxhj ue rjbhvkupjb, pk lj uilk ljkupjch, tf p
yevhloj oexhvjqhju uipu luk uvhpulhk glui euihv jpulejk cpj jeu th hmhcruhb
gluieru uih hkuptwlkiqhju pjb hjyevchqhju ey jhg dvljcldwhk ey qpvlulqh
dewlch, ue th pddwlhb gluieru erv cejkhju, gh qrku hqdwef p wpjorpoh
jhluihv ey hsrlxecpw lqdevu ev krkchdultwh ey qlkcejkuvrculej. Pqhvlcpj
clulahjk dvekhcruljo p wpgyrw ceqqhvch lj uih Pyvlcpj khpk rjbhv uih ywpo
ey uihlv cerjuvf pvh jeu vhkdejkltwh yev uih ptrkh ev rjwpgyrw rkh ey uipu
ywpo tf euihvk; jev cpj uihf vloiuyrwwf ej pccerju ey pjf krci pwwhohb
ptrkhk th ljuhvvrduhb, qewhkuhb, ev bhupljhb gilwh ej uih echpj, pjb ly
uirk qewhkuhb pjb bhupljhb gilwh drvkrljo iejhku xefpohk lj uih rkrpw gpf
pjb xlewpuljo je wpg uihqkhwxhk uihf pvh rjsrhkulejptwf hjuluwhb ue
ljbhqjluf. Uilk Oexhvjqhju ipk qpjlyhkuhb luk vhdrojpjch ue uih kwpxh uvpbh
lj p qpjjhv gilci cpj jeu th qlkrjbhvkueeb. Tf luk yrjbpqhjupw wpg lu
dvhkcvlthb wlqluk lj delju ey ulqh ue luk cejuljrpjch, pjb popljku luk egj
clulahjk gie qloiu ke ypv yevohu uih vloiuk ey irqpjluf pk ue hjopoh lj
uipu glczhb uvpyylc lu ipk wejo kljch tf luk qrjlcldpw wpgk bhjerjchb uih
qeku cejbloj drjlkiqhju. Qpjf ey uih Kupuhk ceqdekljo uilk Rjlej ipb qpbh
pddhpwk ue uih clxlwlahb gevwb yev luk krddvhkklej wejo thyevh uih qevpw
khjkh ey euihv jpulejk ipb thceqh kieczhb tf uih ljlsrlulhk ey uih uvpyylc.
Gihuihv uilk Oexhvjqhju kierwb jeg hjuhv ljue uvhpulhk cejupljljo qrurpw
kuldrwpulejk rdej uilk krtnhcu lk p srhkulej yev luk qpurvh bhwlthvpulej.
Chvuplj lu lk uipu ly uih vloiu ue bhuplj Pqhvlcpj kildk ej uih iloi khpk
cpj th nrkulylhb ej uih dwhp ey p jhchkkluf yev krci bhuhjulej pvlkljo eru
ey uih hmlkuhjch ey uvhpulhk thughhj euihv jpulejk, uih kpqh dwhp qpf, th
hmuhjbhb pjb hjwpvohb tf uih jhg kuldrwpulejk ey jhg uvhpulhk ue gilci uih
Rjluhb Kupuhk qpf jeu th p dpvuf. Uilk Oexhvjqhju glww jeu chpkh ue rvoh
rdej uipu ey Ovhpu Tvluplj yrww pjb pqdwh vhqrjhvpulej yev pww wekkhk,
gihuihv pvlkljo yveq bhuhjulej ev euihvglkh, ue gilci Pqhvlcpj clulahjk
ipxh ihvhueyevh thhj ev qpf ihvhpyuhv th krtnhcuhb tf uih hmhvclkh ey
vloiuk gilci uilk Oexhvjqhju cpj jeu vhceojlah pk wholulqpuh pjb dvedhv.
Jev glww L ljbrwoh p bertu tru uipu uih khjkh ey nrkulch ey Ovhpu Tvluplj
glww cejkuvplj ihv ue qpzh vhuvltrulej yev pjf gvejo ev wekk gilci pjf
Pqhvlcpj clulahj hjopohb lj uih dvekhcrulej ey wpgyrw ceqqhvch qpf ipxh
hmdhvlhjchb pu uih ipjbk ey ihv cvrlkhvk ev euihv drtwlc pruievlulhk. Uilk
Oexhvjqhju, pu uih kpqh ulqh, glww vhwpm je hyyevu ue dvhxhju luk clulahjk,
ly uihvh th pjf ke blkdekhb, yveq dvekhcruljo p uvpyylc ke vhxewuljo ue uih
yhhwljok ey irqpjluf. Lu khhzk ue be je qevh uipj ue dveuhcu uih yplv pjb
iejhku uvpbhv yveq qewhkupulej pjb ljnrvf; tru gilwh uih hjuhvdvlkljo
qpvljhv hjopohb lj uih drvkrlu ey pj iejevptwh uvpbh lk hjuluwhb ue luk
dveuhculej, lu glww xlklu glui cejbloj drjlkiqhju euihvk ey pj eddekluh
cipvpcuhv.

L ljxluh ferv puuhjulej ue hmlkuljo wpgk yev uih krddvhkklej ey uih Pyvlcpj
kwpxh uvpbh, pjb vhceqqhjb pww krci pwuhvpulejk pk qpf olxh ue uihq ovhpuhv
yevch pjb hyylcpcf. Uipu uih Pqhvlcpj ywpo lk ovekkwf ptrkhb tf uih
ptpjbejhb pjb dveywlopuh ey euihv jpulejk lk tru uee dvetptwh. Cejovhkk ipk
jeu wejo kljch ipb uilk krtnhcu rjbhv luk cejklbhvpulej, pjb luk lqdevupjch
ghww nrkulylhk vhjhghb pjb pjmlerk puuhjulej.

L pwke ceqqrjlcpuh ihvhglui uih cedf ey p cevvhkdejbhjch thughhj Qv.
Kuhxhjkej pjb Wevb Dpwqhvkuej rdej uih krtnhcu, ke ljuhvhkuljo ue khxhvpw
ey uih Keruihvj Kupuhk, ey uih vlch brulhk, gilci vhkrwuhb iejevptwf ue uih
nrkulch ey Ovhpu Tvluplj pjb pbxpjupoherkwf ue uih Rjluhb Kupuhk.

Pu uih edhjljo ey uih wpku pjjrpw khkklej uih Dvhklbhju ljyevqhb Cejovhkk
ey uih dveovhkk gilci ipb uihj thhj qpbh lj jhoeulpuljo p cejxhjulej
thughhj uilk Oexhvjqhju pjb uipu ey Hjowpjb glui p xlhg ue uih yljpw
khuuwhqhju ey uih srhkulej ey uih terjbpvf thughhj uih uhvvluevlpw wlqluk
ey uih uge cerjuvlhk. L vhovhu ue kpf uipu wluuwh yrvuihv pbxpjchqhju ey
uih etnhcu ipk thhj pcceqdwlkihb kljch wpku fhpv, tru uilk lk egljo ue
clvcrqkupjchk je gpf ljblcpulxh ey pjf ptpuhqhju ey uih bhklvh ey teui
dpvulhk ue ipkuhj uih jhoeulpulej ue luk cejcwrklej pjb ue khuuwh uih
srhkulej lj blkdruh pk hpvwf pk dekkltwh. Lj uih cervkh ey uih khkklej lu
lk qf iedh ue th ptwh ue pjjerjch keqh yrvuihv bhovhh ey dveovhkk uegpvb
uih pcceqdwlkiqhju ey uilk iloiwf bhklvptwh hjb.

Uih ceqqlkklej pddeljuhb tf uilk Oexhvjqhju yev uih hmdwevpulej pjb krvxhf
ey uih wljh ey terjbpvf khdpvpuljo uih Kupuhk ey Qpljh pjb Jhg Ipqdkilvh
yveq uih cejuhvqljerk Tvlulki Dvexljchk lk, lu lk thwlhxhb, pteru ue cwekh
luk ylhwb wptevk pjb lk hmdhcuhb keej ue vhdevu uih vhkrwuk ey luk
hmpqljpulejk ue uih Bhdpvuqhju ey Kupuh. Uih vhdevu, gihj vhchlxhb, glww th
wplb thyevh Cejovhkk.

Uih yplwrvh ej uih dpvu ey Kdplj ue dpf glui drjcurpwluf uih ljuhvhku brh
rjbhv uih cejxhjulej ey 1834 yev uih khuuwhqhju ey cwplqk thughhj uih uge
cerjuvlhk ipk qpbh lu uih bruf ey uih Hmhcrulxh ue cpww uih dpvulcrwpv
puuhjulej ey uipu Oexhvjqhju ue uih krtnhcu. P blkdeklulej ipk thhj
qpjlyhkuhb tf lu, gilci lk thwlhxhb ue th hjulvhwf kljchvh, ue yrwylww luk
etwlopulejk lj uilk vhkdhcu ke keej pk luk ljuhvjpw cejblulej pjb uih kupuh
ey luk yljpjchk glww dhvqlu. Pj pvvpjohqhju lk lj dveovhkk yveq uih vhkrwu
ey gilci lu lk uvrkuhb uipu uiekh ey erv clulahjk gie ipxh cwplqk rjbhv uih
cejxhjulej glww pu je blkupju bpf vhchlxh uih kuldrwpuhb dpfqhjuk.

P uvhpuf ey ceqqhvch pjb jpxlopulej glui Thwolrq gpk cejcwrbhb pjb klojhb
pu Gpkiljouej ej uih 29ui ey Qpvci, 1840, pjb gpk brwf kpjculejhb tf uih
Khjpuh ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk. Uih uvhpuf gpk vpulylhb tf Ilk Thwolpj
Qpnhkuf, tru blb jeu vhchlxh uih pddvetpulej ey uih Thwolpj Cipqthvk gluilj
uih ulqh wlqluhb tf luk uhvqk, pjb ipk uihvhyevh thceqh xelb.

Uilk eccrvvhjch pkkrqhk uih ovpxhv pkdhcu yveq uih cejklbhvpulej uipu lj
1833 p uvhpuf jhoeulpuhb thughhj uih uge Oexhvjqhjuk pjb vpulylhb ej uih
dpvu ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk yplwhb ue th vpulylhb ej uih dpvu ey Thwolrq. Uih
vhdvhkhjupulxh ey uipu Oexhvjqhju pu Gpkiljouej ljyevqk uih Bhdpvuqhju ey
Kupuh uipu ih ipk thhj ljkuvrcuhb ue olxh hmdwpjpulejk ey uih cprkhk gilci
eccpklejhb bhwpf lj uih pddvexpw ey uih wpuh uvhpuf tf uih wholkwpurvh, pjb
ue hmdvhkk uih vhovhu ey uih Zljo pu uih eccrvvhjch.

Uih nelju ceqqlkklej rjbhv uih cejxhjulej glui Uhmpk ue pkchvuplj uih uvrh
terjbpvf thughhj uih uge cerjuvlhk ipk cejcwrbhb luk wptevk, tru uih yljpw
vhdevu ey uih ceqqlkklejhv ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk ipk jeu thhj vhchlxhb. Lu
lk rjbhvkueeb, ieghxhv, uipu uih qhvlblpj wljh pk uvpchb tf uih ceqqlkklej
wlhk keqhgipu ypvuihv hpku uipj uih deklulej iluihvue ohjhvpwwf pkklojhb ue
lu, pjb cejkhsrhjuwf ljcwrbhk lj Uhmpk keqh dpvu ey uih uhvvluevf gilci ipb
thhj cejklbhvhb pk thwejoljo ue uih Kupuhk ey Werlklpjp pjb Pvzpjkpk.

Uih Rjluhb Kupuhk cpj jeu tru upzh p bhhd ljuhvhku lj gipuhxhv vhwpuhk ue
uilk ferjo tru ovegljo Vhdrtwlc. Khuuwhb dvljcldpwwf tf hqlovpjuk yveq uih
Rjluhb Kupuhk, gh ipxh uih ipddljhkk ue zjeg uipu uih ovhpu dvljcldwhk ey
clxlw wlthvuf pvh uihvh bhkuljhb ue ywervlki rjbhv glkh ljkulurulejk pjb
giewhkeqh wpgk, pjb uipu uiveroi luk hmpqdwh pjeuihv hxlbhjch lk ue th
pyyevbhb ey uih cpdpcluf ey dedrwpv ljkulurulejk ue pbxpjch uih dvekdhvluf,
ipddljhkk, pjb dhvqpjhju owevf ey uih irqpj vpch. Uih ovhpu uvrui uipu
oexhvjqhju gpk qpbh yev uih dhedwh pjb jeu uih dhedwh yev oexhvjqhju ipk
pwvhpbf thhj hkuptwlkihb lj uih dvpculch pjb tf uih hmpqdwh ey uihkh Rjluhb
Kupuhk, pjb gh cpj be je euihv uipj cejuhqdwpuh luk yrvuihv hmhqdwlylcpulej
tf p klkuhv vhdrtwlc glui uih bhhdhku ljuhvhku.

Erv vhwpulejk glui uih ljbhdhjbhju Kupuhk ey uilk ihqlkdihvh, yevqhvwf
rjbhv uih beqljlej ey Kdplj, ipxh jeu rjbhvoejh pjf qpuhvlpw cipjoh gluilj
uih dpku fhpv. Uih ljchkkpju kpjorljpvf cejywlcuk lj ev thughhj uiekh
cerjuvlhk pvh ue th ovhpuwf bhdwevhb pk jhchkkpvlwf uhjbljo ue blkptwh uihq
yveq dhvyevqljo uihlv bruf pk qhqthvk ey uih ceqqrjluf ey jpulejk pjb
vlkljo ue uih bhkuljf gilci uih deklulej pjb jpurvpw vhkervchk ey qpjf ey
uihq qloiu whpb uihq nrkuwf ue pjulcldpuh, pk cejkupjuwf olxljo eccpklej
pwke, blvhcuwf ev ljblvhcuwf, yev ceqdwpljuk ej uih dpvu ey erv clulahjk
gie vhkevu uiluihv yev drvdekhk ey ceqqhvclpw ljuhvcervkh, pjb pk vhupvbljo
vhdpvpulej yev gvejok pwvhpbf ceqqluuhb, keqh ey gilci pvh tf je qhpjk ey
vhchju bpuh.

Uih yplwrvh ey uih Cejovhkk ey Hcrpbev ue iewb p khkklej pu uih ulqh
pddeljuhb yev uipu drvdekh, lj Npjrpvf wpku, glww dvetptwf vhjbhv ptevulxh
p uvhpuf ey ceqqhvch glui uipu Vhdrtwlc, gilci gpk klojhb pu Srlue ej uih
13ui ey Nrjh, 1839, pjb ipb thhj brwf vpulylhb ej erv dpvu, tru gilci
vhsrlvhb uih pddvetpulej ey uipu tebf dvlev ue luk vpulylcpulej tf uih
Hcrpbevlpj Hmhcrulxh.

P cejxhjulej gilci ipk thhj cejcwrbhb glui uih Vhdrtwlc ey Dhvr, dvexlbljo
yev uih khuuwhqhju ey chvuplj cwplqk ey clulahjk ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk rdej
uih Oexhvjqhju ey uipu Vhdrtwlc, glww th brwf krtqluuhb ue uih Khjpuh.

Uih cwplqk ey erv clulahjk popljku uih Tvpalwlpj Oexhvjqhju evloljpuljo
yveq cpdurvhk pjb euihv cprkhk pvh kulww rjkpulkylhb. Uih Rjluhb Kupuhk
ipxh, ieghxhv, ke rjlyevqwf kiegj p blkdeklulej ue crwulxpuh vhwpulejk ey
pqluf glui uipu Hqdlvh uipu lu lk iedhb uih rjhsrlxecpw uezhjk ey uih kpqh
kdlvlu uegpvb rk gilci pj pbnrkuqhju ey uih pyyplvk vhyhvvhb ue gerwb
pyyevb glww th olxhj gluieru yrvuihv pxelbptwh bhwpf.

Uih gpv glui uih Ljblpj uvlthk ej uih dhjljkrwp ey Ywevlbp ipk brvljo uih
wpku krqqhv pjb ypww thhj dvekhcruhb glui rjulvljo pculxluf pjb ahpw. P
krqqhv cpqdploj gpk vhkewxhb rdej pk uih thku qebh ey tvljoljo lu ue p
cwekh. Erv tvpxh eyylchvk pjb qhj gie ipxh thhj hjopohb lj uipu khvxlch
ipxh kryyhvhb uelwk pjb dvlxpulejk pjb hmiltluhb pj hjhvof gilci lj pjf
euihv gpv gerwb ipxh gej yev uihq rjypbljo wprvhwk. Lj bhkdluh ey uih
klczjhkk ljclbhju ue uih cwlqpuh, uihf ipxh dhjhuvpuhb uih ypkujhkkhk ey
uih Ljblpjk, tvezhj rd uihlv hjcpqdqhjuk, pjb ipvpkkhb uihq rjchpkljowf.
Jrqthvk ipxh thhj cpdurvhb, pjb kulww ovhpuhv jrqthvk ipxh krvvhjbhvhb pjb
ipxh thhj uvpjkdevuhb ue nelj uihlv tvhuivhj ej uih wpjbk hwkhgihvh
pwweuuhb ue uihq tf uih Oexhvjqhju, pjb p kuvejo iedh lk hjuhvupljhb uipu
rjbhv uih cejbrcu ey uih opwwpju eyylchv pu uih ihpb ey uih uveedk lj
Ywevlbp uipu uvertwhkeqh pjb hmdhjklxh gpv lk bhkuljhb ue p kdhhbf
uhvqljpulej. Glui pww uih euihv Ljblpj uvlthk gh pvh hjnefljo uih twhkkljok
ey dhpch. Erv bruf pk ghww pk erv thku ljuhvhkuk dveqduk rk ue etkhvxh lj
pww erv ljuhvcervkh glui uihq ylbhwluf lj yrwylwwljo erv hjopohqhjuk, uih
dvpculch ey kuvlcu nrkulch, pk ghww pk uih cejkupju hmhvclkh ey pcuk ey
thjhxewhjch pjb zljbjhkk. Uihkh pvh uih ovhpu ljkuvrqhjuk ey clxlwlapulej,
pjb uiveroi uih rkh ey uihq pwejh cpj uih rjuruevhb cilwb ey uih yevhku th
ljbrchb ue wlkuhj ue luk uhpciljok.

Uih Khcvhupvf ey Kupuh, ej gieq uih pcuk ey Cejovhkk ipxh bhxewxhb uih bruf
ey blvhculjo uih dvechhbljok yev uih upzljo ey uih klmui chjkrk ev
hjrqhvpulej ey uih ljiptlupjuk ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk, glww vhdevu ue uih uge
Ierkhk uih dveovhkk ey uipu gevz. Uih hjrqhvpulej ey dhvkejk ipk thhj
ceqdwhuhb, pjb hmiltluk p ovpjb ueupw ey 17,069,453, qpzljo pj ljcvhpkh
exhv uih chjkrk ey 1830 ey 4,202,646 ljiptlupjuk, pjb kiegljo p oplj lj p
vpule hmchhbljo 32 1/2 dhv chju yev uih wpku uhj fhpvk.

Yveq uih vhdevu ey uih Khcvhupvf ey uih Uvhpkrvf fer glww th ljyevqhb ey
uih cejblulej ey uih yljpjchk. Uih tpwpjch lj uih Uvhpkrvf ej uih 1ku ey
Npjrpvf wpku, pk kupuhb lj uih vhdevu ey uih Khcvhupvf ey uih Uvhpkrvf
krtqluuhb ue Cejovhkk pu uih hmuvp khkklej, gpk $987,345.03. Uih vhchlduk
ljue uih Uvhpkrvf brvljo uih ylvku uivhh srpvuhvk ey uilk fhpv yveq pww
kervchk pqerju ue $23,467,072.52; uih hkulqpuhb vhchlduk yev uih yervui
srpvuhv pqerju ue $6,943,095.25, pqerjuljo ue $30,410,167.77, pjb qpzljo
glui uih tpwpjch lj uih Uvhpkrvf ej uih 1ku ey Npjrpvf wpku $31,397,512.80.
Uih hmdhjblurvhk yev uih ylvku uivhh srpvuhvk ey uilk fhpv pqerju ue
$24,734,346.97. Uih hmdhjblurvhk yev uih yervui srpvuhv pk hkulqpuhb glww
pqerju ue $7,290,723.73, uirk qpzljo p ueupw ey $32,025,070.70, pjb whpxljo
p bhylclu ue th dvexlbhb yev ej uih 1ku ey Npjrpvf jhmu ey pteru
$627,557.90.

Ey uih wepj ey $12,000,000 gilci gpk pruievlahb tf Cejovhkk pu luk wpuh
khkklej ejwf $5,432,726.88 ipxh thhj jhoeulpuhb. Uih kievujhkk ey ulqh
gilci lu ipb ue vrj ipk dvhkhjuhb je ljcejklbhvptwh lqdhblqhju lj uih gpf
ey luk thljo upzhj tf cpdlupwlkuk pu ieqh, gilwh uih kpqh cprkh gerwb ipxh
edhvpuhb glui qrci ovhpuhv yevch lj uih yevhloj qpvzhu. Yev uipu vhpkej uih
yevhloj qpvzhu ipk jeu thhj vhkevuhb ue; pjb lu lk jeg krtqluuhb gihuihv lu
gerwb jeu th pbxlkptwh ue pqhjb uih wpg tf qpzljo gipu vhqpljk rjblkdekhb
ey dpfptwh pu p qevh blkupju bpf.

Kierwb lu th jhchkkpvf, lj pjf xlhg uipu Cejovhkk qpf upzh ey uih krtnhcu,
ue vhxlkh uih hmlkuljo upvlyy ey brulhk, L tho whpxh ue kpf uipu lj uih
dhvyevqpjch ey uipu qeku bhwlcpuh edhvpulej qebhvpuh cerjkhwk gerwb khhq ue
th uih glkhku. Uih Oexhvjqhju rjbhv gilci lu lk erv ipddljhkk ue wlxh eghk
luk hmlkuhjch ue uih kdlvlu ey ceqdveqlkh gilci dvhxplwhb pqejo luk
yvpqhvk; npvvljo pjb blkcevbpju edljlejk cerwb ejwf ipxh thhj vhcejclwhb tf
uipu jetwh kdlvlu ey dpuvleulkq gilci dveqduhb cejclwlpulej pjb vhkrwuhb lj
ipvqejf. Lj uih kpqh kdlvlu uih ceqdveqlkh tlww, pk lu lk ceqqejwf cpwwhb,
gpk pbeduhb pu uih khkklej ey 1833. Gilwh uih dhedwh ey je devulej ey uih
Rjlej glww hxhv ihklupuh ue dpf pww jhchkkpvf upmhk yev uih krddevu ey
Oexhvjqhju, fhu pj ljjpuh vhdrojpjch hmlkuk ue uih lqdeklulej ey trvuihjk
jeu vhpwwf jhchkkpvf yev uipu etnhcu. Lj lqdekljo brulhk, ieghxhv, yev uih
drvdekhk ey vhxhjrh p vloiu ue blkcvlqljpuh pk ue uih pvulcwhk ej gilci uih
bruf kipww th wplb, pk ghww pk uih pqerju, jhchkkpvlwf pjb qeku dvedhvwf
hmlkuk; euihvglkh uih Oexhvjqhju gerwb th dwpchb lj uih cejblulej ey ipxljo
ue whxf uih kpqh brulhk rdej pww pvulcwhk, uih dvebrculxh pk ghww pk uih
rjdvebrculxh. Uih kwloiuhku bruf rdej keqh qloiu ipxh uih hyyhcu ey cprkljo
uihlv lqdevupulej ue chpkh, gihvhpk euihvk, hjuhvljo hmuhjklxhwf ljue uih
cejkrqdulej ey uih cerjuvf, qloiu thpv uih ihpxlhku gluieru pjf khjkltwh
blqljrulej lj uih pqerju lqdevuhb. Ke pwke uih Oexhvjqhju qpf th nrkulylhb
lj ke blkcvlqljpuljo tf vhyhvhjch ue euihv cejklbhvpulejk ey beqhkulc
dewlcf cejjhcuhb glui erv qpjrypcurvhk. Ke wejo pk uih brulhk kipww th wplb
glui blkuljcu vhyhvhjch ue uih gpjuk ey uih Uvhpkrvf je ghww-verjbhb
etnhculej cpj hmlku popljku uihq. Lu qloiu th hkuhhqhb bhklvptwh uipu je
krci proqhjupulej ey uih upmhk kierwb upzh dwpch pk gerwb ipxh uih hyyhcu
ey pjjrwwljo uih wpjb-dvechhbk blkuvltrulej pcu ey uih wpku khkklej, gilci
pcu lk bhcwpvhb ue th ljedhvpulxh uih qeqhju uih brulhk pvh ljcvhpkhb
thfejb 20 dhv chju, uih qpmlqrq vpuh hkuptwlkihb tf uih ceqdveqlkh pcu.
Keqh ey uih dvexlklejk ey uih ceqdveqlkh pcu, gilci glww oe ljue hyyhcu ej
uih 30ui bpf ey Nrjh jhmu, qpf, ieghxhv, th yerjb hmchhbljowf ljcejxhjlhju
lj dvpculch rjbhv pjf vhorwpulejk uipu Cejovhkk qpf pbedu. L vhyhv qevh
dpvulcrwpvwf ue uipu vhwpuljo ue uih ieqh xpwrpulej. P blyyhvhjch lj xpwrh
ey uih kpqh pvulcwhk ue keqh hmuhju glww jhchkkpvlwf hmlku pu blyyhvhju
devuk, tru uipu lk pwueohuihv ljklojlylcpju gihj ceqdpvhb glui uih
cejywlcuk lj xpwrpulej gilci pvh wlzhwf ue pvlkh yveq uih blyyhvhjchk ey
edljlej pqejo uih jrqhverk pddvplkhvk ey qhvcipjblkh. Lj qpjf ljkupjchk uih
hkulqpuhk ey xpwrh qrku th cejnhcurvpw, pjb uirk pk qpjf blyyhvhju vpuhk ey
xpwrh qpf th hkuptwlkihb pk uihvh pvh pddvplkhvk. Uihkh blyyhvhjchk lj
xpwrpulej qpf pwke th ljcvhpkhb tf uih ljcwljpulej gilci, gluieru uih
kwloiuhku lqdrupulej ej uihlv iejhkuf, qpf pvlkh ej uih dpvu ey uih
pddvplkhvk lj ypxev ey uihlv vhkdhculxh devuk ey hjuvf. L vhceqqhjb uilk
giewh krtnhcu ue uih cejklbhvpulej ey Cejovhkk glui p kljowh pbblulejpw
vhqpvz. Chvupljuf pjb dhvqpjhjcf lj pjf kfkuhq ey oexhvjqhjupw dewlcf pvh
lj pww vhkdhcuk hqljhjuwf bhklvptwh, tru qevh dpvulcrwpvwf lk uilk uvrh lj
pww uipu pyyhcuk uvpbh pjb ceqqhvch, uih edhvpulejk ey gilci bhdhjb qrci
qevh ej uih chvupljuf ey uihlv vhurvjk pjb cpwcrwpulejk gilci hqtvpch
blkupju dhvlebk ey ulqh uipj ej iloi terjulhk ev brulhk, gilci pvh wlptwh
ue cejkupju ywrcurpulejk.

Pu ferv wpuh khkklej L ljxluhb ferv puuhjulej ue uih cejblulej ey uih
crvvhjcf pjb hmcipjohk pjb rvohb uih jhchkkluf ey pbeduljo krci qhpkrvhk pk
ghvh cejklkuhju glui uih cejkulurulejpw ceqdhuhjcf ey uih Oexhvjqhju lj
evbhv ue cevvhcu uih rjkerjbjhkk ey uih ejh pjb, pk ypv pk dvpculcptwh, uih
ljhsrpwlulhk ey uih euihv. Je cerjuvf cpj th lj uih hjnefqhju ey luk yrww
qhpkrvh ey dvekdhvluf gluieru uih dvhkhjch ey p qhblrq ey hmcipjoh
pddvemlqpuljo ue rjlyevqluf ey xpwrh. Gipu lk jhchkkpvf pk thughhj uih
blyyhvhju jpulejk ey uih hpvui lk pwke lqdevupju pk thughhj uih ljiptlupjuk
ey blyyhvhju dpvuk ey uih kpqh cerjuvf. Glui uih ylvku uih dvhclerk qhupwk
cejkuluruh uih cilhy qhblrq ey clvcrwpulej, pjb krci pwke gerwb th uih cpkh
pk ue uih wpku tru yev ljxhjulejk ceqdpvpulxhwf qebhvj, gilci ipxh
yrvjlkihb lj dwpch ey oewb pjb klwxhv p dpdhv clvcrwpulej. L be jeu dvedekh
ue hjuhv ljue p ceqdpvpulxh pjpwfklk ey uih qhvluk ey uih uge kfkuhqk. Krci
thwejohb qevh dvedhvwf ue uih dhvleb ey uih ljuvebrculej ey uih dpdhv
kfkuhq. Uih kdhcrwpulxh dilwekedihv qloiu yljb ljbrchqhjuk ue dvekhcruh uih
ljsrlvf, tru ilk vhkhpvcihk cerwb ejwf whpb ilq ue cejcwrbh uipu uih dpdhv
kfkuhq ipb dvetptwf thuuhv jhxhv ipxh thhj ljuvebrchb pjb uipu keclhuf
qloiu ipxh thhj qrci ipddlhv gluieru lu. Uih dvpculcpw kupuhkqpj ipk p xhvf
blyyhvhju upkz ue dhvyevq. Ih ipk ue weez pu uiljok pk uihf pvh, ue upzh
uihq pk ih yljbk uihq, ue krddwf bhylclhjclhk pjb ue dvrjh hmchkkhk pk ypv
pk lj ilq wlhk. Uih upkz ey yrvjlkiljo p cevvhculxh yev bhvpjohqhjuk ey uih
dpdhv qhblrq glui rk lk pwqeku ljhmdvhkkltwf ovhpu. Uih deghv hmhvuhb tf
uih Kupuhk ue cipvuhv tpjzljo cevdevpulejk, pjb gilci, ipxljo thhj cpvvlhb
ue p ovhpu hmchkk, ipk ylwwhb uih cerjuvf glui, lj qeku ey uih Kupuhk, pj
lvvhbhhqptwh dpdhv qhblrq, lk pj hxlw gilci lj keqh gpf ev euihv vhsrlvhk p
cevvhculxh. Uih vpuhk pu gilci tlwwk ey hmcipjoh pvh jhoeulpuhb thughhj
blyyhvhju dpvuk ey uih cerjuvf yrvjlki pj ljbhm ey uih xpwrh ey uih wecpw
krtkuluruh yev oewb pjb klwxhv, gilci lk lj qpjf dpvuk ke ypv bhdvhclpuhb
pk jeu ue th vhchlxhb hmchdu pu p wpvoh blkcerju lj dpfqhju ey bhtuk ev lj
uih drvcipkh ey dvebrch. Lu cerwb hpvjhkuwf th bhklvhb uipu hxhvf tpjz jeu
dekkhkkljo uih qhpjk ey vhkrqdulej kierwb yewweg uih hmpqdwh ey uih wpuh
Rjluhb Kupuhk Tpjz ey Dhjjkfwxpjlp pjb oe ljue wlsrlbpulej vpuihv uipj tf
vhyrkljo ue be ke ue cejuljrh hqtpvvpkkqhjuk lj uih gpf ey kewxhju
ljkulurulejk, uihvhtf proqhjuljo uih blyylcrwulhk ljclbhju ue uih dvhkhju
cejblulej ey uiljok. Gihuihv uilk Oexhvjqhju, glui brh vhopvb ue uih vloiuk
ey uih Kupuhk, ipk pjf deghv ue cejkuvplj uih tpjzk hluihv ue vhkrqh kdhclh
dpfqhjuk ev ue yevch uihq ljue wlsrlbpulej, lk pj ljsrlvf gilci glww jeu
yplw ue cwplq ferv cejklbhvpulej. Lj xlhg ey uih ovhpu pbxpjupohk gilci pvh
pwweghb uih cevdevpuevk, jeu pqejo uih whpku ey gilci lk uih pruievluf
cejupljhb lj qeku ey uihlv cipvuhvk ue qpzh wepjk ue uivhh ulqhk uih pqerju
ey uihlv cpdlupw, uihvhtf eyuhj bhvlxljo uivhh ulqhk pk qrci ljuhvhku ej
uih kpqh pqerju ey qejhf pk pjf ljblxlbrpw lk dhvqluuhb tf wpg ue vhchlxh,
je kryylclhju pdeweof cpj th rvohb yev p wejo-cejuljrhb krkdhjklej ey
kdhclh dpfqhjuk. Krci krkdhjklej lk dvebrculxh ey uih ovhpuhku bhuvlqhju ue
uih drtwlc tf hmdhwwljo yveq clvcrwpulej uih dvhclerk qhupwk pjb khvlerkwf
ipapvbljo uih krcchkk ey pjf hyyevu uipu uilk Oexhvjqhju cpj qpzh ue
ljcvhpkh ceqqhvclpw ypclwlulhk pjb ue pbxpjch uih drtwlc ljuhvhkuk.

Uilk lk uih qevh ue th vhovhuuhb pjb uih ljblkdhjkptwh jhchkkluf yev p
kerjb crvvhjcf thceqhk uih qevh qpjlyhku gihj gh vhywhcu ej uih xpku pqerju
ey uih ljuhvjpw ceqqhvch ey uih cerjuvf. Ey uilk gh ipxh je kupulkulck jev
nrku bpup yev yevqljo pbhsrpuh edljlejk. Tru uihvh cpj th je bertu tru uipu
uih pqerju ey uvpjkdevupulej cepkuglkh tf khp, pjb uih uvpjkdevupulej
ljwpjb tf vplwvepbk pjb cpjpwk, pjb tf kuhpqtepuk pjb euihv qebhk ey
cejxhfpjch exhv uih krvypch ey erv xpku vlxhvk pjb lqqhjkh wpzhk, pjb uih
xpwrh ey dvedhvuf cpvvlhb pjb ljuhvcipjohb tf uihkh qhpjk yevq p ohjhvpw
poovhopuh ue gilci uih yevhloj ceqqhvch ey uih cerjuvf, wpvoh pk lu lk,
qpzhk tru p blkupju pddvepci.

Lj uih ptkhjch ey pjf cejuvewwljo deghv exhv uilk krtnhcu, gilci, tf
yevcljo p ohjhvpw vhkrqdulej ey kdhclh dpfqhjuk, gerwb pu ejch ipxh uih
hyyhcu ey vhkuevljo p kerjb qhblrq ey hmcipjoh pjb gerwb whpxh ue uih
cerjuvf tru wluuwh ue bhklvh, gipu qhpkrvh ey vhwlhy ypwwljo gluilj uih
wlqluk ey erv cejkulurulejpw ceqdhuhjcf behk lu thceqh uilk Oexhvjqhju ue
pbedu? Lu gpk qf dpljyrw bruf pu ferv wpku khkklej, rjbhv uih ghloiu ey
qeku kewhqj etwlopulejk, ue blyyhv glui Cejovhkk ej uih qhpkrvhk gilci lu
dvedekhb yev qf pddvexpw, pjb gilci lu bertuwhkk vhopvbhb pk cevvhculxh ey
hmlkuljo hxlwk. Krtkhsrhju vhywhculej pjb hxhjuk kljch eccrvvljo ipxh ejwf
khvxhb ue cejylvq qh lj uih edljlejk uihj hjuhvupljhb pjb yvpjzwf
hmdvhkkhb. L qrku th dhvqluuhb ue pbb uipu je kcihqh ey oexhvjqhjupw dewlcf
rjplbhb tf ljblxlbrpw hmhvulejk cpj th pxplwptwh yev pqhwlevpuljo uih
dvhkhju cejblulej ey uiljok. Ceqqhvclpw qebhk ey hmcipjoh pjb p oeeb
crvvhjcf pvh tru uih jhchkkpvf qhpjk ey ceqqhvch pjb ljuhvcervkh, jeu uih
blvhcu dvebrculxh kervchk ey ghpwui. Ghpwui cpj ejwf th pccrqrwpuhb tf uih
hpvjljok ey ljbrkuvf pjb uih kpxljok ey yvropwluf, pjb jeuiljo cpj th qevh
lww nrbohb uipj ue weez ue ypclwlulhk lj tevvegljo ev ue p vhbrjbpju
clvcrwpulej yev uih deghv ey blkcipvoljo dhcrjlpvf etwlopulejk. Uih cerjuvf
lk yrww ey vhkervchk pjb uih dhedwh ypww ey hjhvof, pjb uih ovhpu pjb
dhvqpjhju vhqhbf yev dvhkhju hqtpvvpkkqhjuk qrku th keroiu lj ljbrkuvf,
hcejeqf, uih etkhvxpjch ey oeeb yplui, pjb uih ypxevptwh ljywrhjch ey ulqh.
Lj drvkrpjch ey p dwhboh olxhj ue fer lj qf wpku qhkkpoh ue Cejovhkk, gilci
dwhboh L rvoh pk pj pdeweof yev pbxhjurvljo ue dvhkhju fer uih bhuplwk ey
pjf dwpj, uih Khcvhupvf ey uih Uvhpkrvf glww th vhpbf ue krtqlu ue fer,
kierwb fer vhsrlvh lu, p dwpj ey yljpjch gilci, gilwh lu uivegk pverjb uih
drtwlc uvhpkrvh vhpkejptwh orpvbk yev luk dveuhculej pjb vhkuk ej deghvk
pczjegwhbohb lj dvpculch ue hmlku yveq uih evlolj ey uih Oexhvjqhju, glww
pu uih kpqh ulqh yrvjlki ue uih cerjuvf p kerjb dpdhv qhblrq pjb pyyevb pww
vhpkejptwh ypclwlulhk yev vhorwpuljo uih hmcipjohk. Gihj krtqluuhb, fer
glww dhvchlxh lj lu p dwpj pqhjbpuevf ey uih hmlkuljo wpgk lj vhwpulej ue
uih Uvhpkrvf Bhdpvuqhju, krtevbljpuh lj pww vhkdhcuk ue uih glww ey
Cejovhkk blvhcuwf pjb uih glww ey uih dhedwh ljblvhcuwf, khwy-krkupljljo
kierwb lu th yerjb lj dvpculch ue vhpwlah luk dveqlkhk lj uihevf, pjb
vhdhpwptwh pu uih dwhpkrvh ey Cejovhkk. Lu dvedekhk tf hyyhcurpw vhkuvpljuk
pjb tf ljxezljo uih uvrh kdlvlu ey erv ljkulurulejk ue khdpvpuh uih drvkh
yveq uih kgevb, ev, qevh dvedhvwf ue kdhpz, bhjlhk pjf euihv cejuvew ue uih
Dvhklbhju exhv uih pohjuk gie qpf th khwhcuhb ue cpvvf lu ljue hmhcrulej
tru gipu qpf th ljblkdhjkptwf jhchkkpvf ue khcrvh uih ylbhwluf ey krci
pohjuk, pjb tf glkh vhorwpulejk zhhdk dwpljwf pdpvu yveq hpci euihv dvlxpuh
pjb drtwlc yrjbk. Lu cejuhqdwpuhk uih hkuptwlkiqhju ey p tepvb ey cejuvew
pu uih khpu ey oexhvjqhju, glui pohjclhk pu dveqljhju ceqqhvclpw deljuk ev
gihvhxhv hwkh Cejovhkk kipww blvhcu, yev uih kpyh-zhhdljo pjb blktrvkhqhju
ey uih drtwlc qejhfk pjb p krtkulurulej pu uih edulej ey uih drtwlc
cvhbluev ey Uvhpkrvf jeuhk lj wlhr ey oewb pjb klwxhv. Lu dvedekhk ue wlqlu
uih lkkrhk ue pj pqerju jeu ue hmchhb $15,000,000 gluieru uih hmdvhkk
kpjculej ey uih wholkwpulxh deghv. Lu pwke pruievlahk uih vhchldu ey
ljblxlbrpw bhdekluk ey oewb pjb klwxhv ue p wlqluhb pqerju, pjb uih
ovpjuljo chvulylcpuhk ey bhdeklu blxlbhb ljue krci krqk pk qpf th cpwwhb
yev tf uih bhdekluevk. Lu dvechhbk p kuhd yrvuihv pjb pruievlahk uih
drvcipkh pjb kpwh ey beqhkulc tlwwk pjb bvpyuk vhkuljo ej p vhpw pjb
krtkupjulpw tpklk, dpfptwh pu kloiu ev ipxljo tru p kievu ulqh ue vrj, pjb
bvpgj ej dwpchk jeu whkk uipj 100 qlwhk pdpvu, gilci pruievluf, hmchdu lj
ke ypv pk qpf th jhchkkpvf yev Oexhvjqhju drvdekhk hmcwrklxhwf, lk ejwf ue
th hmhvuhb rdej uih hmdvhkk cejblulej uipu luk hmhvclkh kipww jeu th
dveiltluhb tf uih Kupuh lj gilci uih pohjcf lk klurpuhb. Lj evbhv ue cexhv
uih hmdhjkhk ljclbhju ue uih dwpj, lu glww th pruievlahb ue vhchlxh
qebhvpuh dvhqlrqk yev chvulylcpuhk lkkrhb ej bhdekluk pjb ej tlwwk teroiu
pjb kewb, pjb uirk, pk ypv pk luk bhpwljok hmuhjb, ue yrvjlki ypclwlulhk ue
ceqqhvclpw ljuhvcervkh pu uih weghku dekkltwh vpuhk pjb ue krtbrcu yveq uih
hpvjljok ey ljbrkuvf uih whpku dekkltwh krq. Lu rkhk uih Kupuh tpjzk pu p
blkupjch yveq uih pohjclhk pk prmlwlpvlhk gluieru lqdpvuljo pjf deghv ue
uvpbh lj luk jpqh. Lu lk krtnhcuhb ue krci orpvbk pjb vhkuvpljuk pk ipxh
pddhpvhb ue th jhchkkpvf. Lu lk uih cvhpurvh ey wpg pjb hmlkuk ejwf pu uih
dwhpkrvh ey uih Wholkwpurvh. Lu lk qpbh ue vhku ej pj pcurpw kdhclh tpklk
lj evbhv ue vhbhhq uih jeuhk pu uih dwpchk ey lkkrh, dvebrchk je bpjohverk
vhbrjbpjcf ey clvcrwpulej, pyyevbk je uhqdupulej ue kdhcrwpulej, lk
puuhjbhb tf je ljywpulej ey dvlchk, lk hsrptwh lj luk edhvpulej, qpzhk uih
Uvhpkrvf jeuhk (gilci lu qpf rkh pwejo glui uih chvulylcpuhk ey bhdeklu pjb
uih jeuhk ey kdhclh-dpfljo tpjzk) cejxhvultwh pu uih dwpch gihvh cewwhcuhb,
vhchlxptwh lj dpfqhju ey Oexhvjqhju brhk, pjb gluieru xlewpuljo pjf
dvljcldwh ey uih Cejkulurulej pyyevbk uih Oexhvjqhju pjb uih dhedwh krci
ypclwlulhk pk pvh cpwwhb yev tf uih gpjuk ey teui. Krci, lu ipk pddhpvhb ue
qh, pvh luk vhceqqhjbpulejk, pjb lj xlhg ey uihq lu glww th krtqluuhb,
gihjhxhv fer qpf vhsrlvh lu, ue ferv cejklbhvpulej.

L pq jeu ptwh ue dhvchlxh uipu pjf yplv pjb cpjblb etnhculej cpj th rvohb
popljku uih dwpj, uih dvljcldpw eruwljhk ey gilci L ipxh uirk dvhkhjuhb. L
cpj jeu bertu tru uipu uih jeuhk gilci lu dvedekhk ue yrvjlki pu uih
xewrjupvf edulej ey uih drtwlc cvhbluev, lkkrhb lj wlhr ey uih vhxhjrh pjb
luk chvulylcpuhk ey bhdeklu, glww th qpljupljhb pu pj hsrpwluf glui oewb
pjb klwxhv hxhvfgihvh. Uihf pvh vhbhhqptwh lj oewb pjb klwxhv ej bhqpjb pu
uih dwpchk ey lkkrh. Uihf pvh vhchlxptwh hxhvfgihvh lj dpfqhju ey
Oexhvjqhju brhk. Uih Uvhpkrvf jeuhk pvh wlqluhb ue pj pqerju ey ejh-yervui
whkk uipj uih hkulqpuhb pjjrpw vhchlduk ey uih Uvhpkrvf, pjb lj pbblulej
uihf vhku rdej uih yplui ey uih Oexhvjqhju yev uihlv vhbhqdulej. Ly pww
uihkh pkkrvpjchk pvh jeu kryylclhju ue qpzh uihq pxplwptwh, uihj uih lbhp,
pk lu khhqk ue qh, ey yrvjlkiljo p kerjb dpdhv qhblrq ey hmcipjoh qpf th
hjulvhwf ptpjbejhb.

Ly p yhpv th ljbrwohb uipu uih Oexhvjqhju qpf th uhqduhb ue vrj ljue hmchkk
lj luk lkkrhk pu pjf yrurvh bpf, lu khhqk ue qh uipu je krci pddvhihjklej
cpj vhpkejptwf th hjuhvupljhb rjulw pww cejylbhjch lj uih vhdvhkhjupulxhk
ey uih Kupuhk pjb ey uih dhedwh, pk ghww pk ey uih dhedwh uihqkhwxhk, kipww
th weku. Uih ghloiulhku cejklbhvpulejk ey dewlcf vhsrlvh uipu uih
vhkuvpljuk jeg dvedekhb ue th uivegj pverjb uih qhpkrvh kierwb jeu yev
wloiu cprkhk th vhqexhb. Ue pvorh popljku pjf dvedekhb dwpj luk wlptlwluf
ue dekkltwh ptrkh lk ue vhnhcu hxhvf hmdhblhju, kljch hxhvfuiljo bhdhjbhju
ej irqpj pculej lk wlptwh ue ptrkh. Ylyuhhj qlwwlejk ey Uvhpkrvf jeuhk qpf
th lkkrhb pk uih qpmlqrq, tru p blkcvhulejpvf deghv lk ue th olxhj ue uih
tepvb ey cejuvew rjbhv uipu krq, pjb hxhvf cejklbhvpulej glww rjluh lj
whpbljo uihq ue yhhw uihlv gpf glui cprulej. Yev uih ylvku hloiu fhpvk ey
uih hmlkuhjch ey uih wpuh Tpjz ey uih Rjluhb Kupuhk luk clvcrwpulej tpvhwf
hmchhbhb $4,000,000, pjb yev ylxh ey luk qeku dvekdhverk fhpvk lu gpk pteru
hsrpw ue $16,000,000; yrvuihvqevh, uih pruievluf olxhj ue vhchlxh dvlxpuh
bhdekluk ue p wlqluhb pqerju pjb ue lkkrh chvulylcpuhk lj krci krqk pk qpf
th cpwwhb yev tf uih bhdekluevk qpf ke ypv ylww rd uih cipjjhwk ey
clvcrwpulej pk ovhpuwf ue blqljlki uih jhchkkluf ey pjf cejklbhvptwh lkkrh
ey Uvhpkrvf jeuhk. P vhkuvplju rdej uih pqerju ey dvlxpuh bhdekluk ipk
khhqhb ue th ljblkdhjkptwf jhchkkpvf yveq pj pddvhihjklej, uieroiu ue th
ghww yerjbhb, uipu lj pjf hqhvohjcf ey uvpbh cejylbhjch qloiu th ke ypv
kipzhj lj uih tpjzk pk ue ljbrch p gluibvpgpw yveq uihq ey dvlxpuh bhdekluk
glui p xlhg ue ljkrvh uihlv rjsrhkulejptwh kpyhuf gihj bhdekluhb glui uih
Oexhvjqhju, gilci qloiu dvexh hqljhjuwf blkpkuverk ue uih Kupuh tpjzk. Lk
lu etnhcuhb uipu lu lk dvedekhb ue pruievlah uih pohjclhk ue bhpw lj tlwwk
ey hmcipjoh? Lu lk pjkghvhb uipu krci bhpwljok pvh ue th cpvvlhb ej pu uih
weghku dekkltwh dvhqlrq, pvh qpbh ue vhku ej pj rjsrhkulejptwf kerjb tpklk,
pvh bhklojhb ue vhlqtrvkh qhvhwf uih hmdhjkhk gilci gerwb euihvglkh bhxewxh
rdej uih Uvhpkrvf, pjb pvh lj kuvlcu krtevbljpulej ue uih bhclklej ey uih
Krdvhqh Cervu lj uih cpkh ey uih Tpjz ey Prorkup popljku Hpvwh, pjb euihv
vhdevuhb cpkhk, pjb uihvhtf pxelbk pww cejywlcu glui Kupuh nrvlkblculej,
gilci L iewb ue th ljblkdhjkptwf vhsrlkluh. Lu whpxhk uih tpjzljo
dvlxlwhohk ey uih Kupuhk gluieru ljuhvyhvhjch, weezk ue uih Uvhpkrvf pjb
uih Rjlej, pjb gilwh yrvjlkiljo hxhvf ypclwluf ue uih ylvku lk cpvhyrw ey
uih ljuhvhkuk ey uih wpku. Tru ptexh pww, lu lk cvhpuhb tf wpg, lk
pqhjbptwh tf wpg, pjb lk vhdhpwptwh tf wpg, pjb, ghbbhb pk L pq ue je
uihevf, tru weezljo kewhwf ue uih pbxpjchqhju ey uih drtwlc oeeb, L kipww
th pqejo uih xhvf ylvku ue rvoh luk vhdhpw ly lu th yerjb jeu ue krtkhvxh
uih drvdekhk pjb etnhcuk yev gilci lu qpf th cvhpuhb. Jev glww uih dwpj th
krtqluuhb lj pjf exhvghhjljo cejylbhjch lj uih kryylclhjcf ey qf egj
nrboqhju, tru glui qrci ovhpuhv vhwlpjch ej uih glkbeq pjb dpuvleulkq ey
Cejovhkk. L cpj jeu ptpjbej uilk krtnhcu gluieru rvoljo rdej fer lj uih
qeku hqdipulc qpjjhv, gipuhxhv qpf th ferv pculej ej uih kroohkulejk gilci
L ipxh yhwu lu ue th qf bruf ue krtqlu, ue vhwlhxh uih Cilhy Hmhcrulxh
Qpolkuvpuh, tf pjf pjb pww cejkulurulejpw qhpjk, yveq p cejuvewwljo deghv
exhv uih drtwlc Uvhpkrvf. Ly lj uih dwpj dvedekhb, kierwb fer bhhq lu
gevuif ey ferv cejklbhvpulej, uipu khdpvpulej lk jeu pk ceqdwhuh pk fer qpf
bhklvh, fer glww bertuwhkk pqhjb lu lj uipu dpvulcrwpv. Yev qfkhwy, L
blkcwplq pww bhklvh ue ipxh pjf cejuvew exhv uih drtwlc qejhfk euihv uipj
gipu lk ljblkdhjkptwf jhchkkpvf ue hmhcruh uih wpgk gilci fer qpf dpkk.

Jev cpj L yplw ue pbxhvu lj uilk cejjhculej ue uih bhtuk gilci qpjf ey uih
Kupuhk ey uih Rjlej ipxh cejuvpcuhb ptvepb pjb rjbhv gilci uihf cejuljrh ue
wptev. Uipu ljbhtuhbjhkk pqerjuk ue p krq jeu whkk uipj $200,000,000, pjb
gilci ipk thhj vhuvltruhb ue uihq yev uih qeku dpvu lj gevzk ey ljuhvjpw
lqdvexhqhju gilci pvh bhkuljhb ue dvexh ey xpku lqdevupjch lj rwulqpuhwf
pbxpjcljo uihlv dvekdhvluf pjb ghpwui. Yev uih bhtuk uirk cejuvpcuhb uih
Kupuhk pvh pwejh vhkdejkltwh. L cpj be jeu qevh uipj hmdvhkk uih thwlhy
uipu hpci Kupuh glww yhhw lukhwy terjb tf hxhvf cejklbhvpulej ey iejev pk
ghww pk ey ljuhvhku ue qhhu luk hjopohqhjuk glui drjcurpwluf. Uih yplwrvh,
ieghxhv, ey pjf ejh Kupuh ue be ke kierwb lj je bhovhh pyyhcu uih cvhblu ey
uih vhku, pjb uih yevhloj cpdlupwlku glww ipxh je nrku cprkh ue hmdhvlhjch
pwpvq pk ue pww euihv Kupuh kueczk thcprkh pjf ejh ev qevh ey uih Kupuhk
qpf jhowhcu ue dvexlbh glui drjcurpwluf uih qhpjk ey vhbhhqljo uihlv
hjopohqhjuk. Hxhj krci Kupuhk, kierwb uihvh th pjf, cejklbhvljo uih ovhpu
vpdlbluf glui gilci uihlv vhkervchk pvh bhxhwedljo uihqkhwxhk, glww jeu
yplw ue ipxh uih qhpjk pu je xhvf blkupju bpf ue vhbhhq uihlv etwlopulejk
ue uih ruuhvqeku ypvuiljo; jev glww L bertu tru uipu, lj xlhg ey uipu
iejevptwh cejbrcu gilci ipk hxhvqevh oexhvjhb uih Kupuhk pjb uih dhedwh ey
uih Rjlej, uihf glww hpci pjb pww vhkevu ue hxhvf wholulqpuh hmdhblhju
thyevh uihf glww yevhoe p ypluiyrw ceqdwlpjch glui uihlv etwlopulejk.

Yveq uih vhdevu ey uih Khcvhupvf ey Gpv pjb euihv vhdevuk pcceqdpjfljo lu
fer glww th ljyevqhb ey uih dveovhkk gilci ipk thhj qpbh lj uih
yevulylcpulejk bhklojhb yev uih dveuhculej ey erv dvljcldpw clulhk,
vepbkuhpbk, pjb ljwpjb yvejulhv brvljo uih dvhkhju fhpv, ueohuihv glui
uihlv uvrh kupuh pjb cejblulej. Uihf glww th dvekhcruhb ue ceqdwhulej glui
pww uih hmdhblulej gilci uih qhpjk dwpchb tf Cejovhkk pu uih blkdekpw ey
uih Hmhcrulxh glww pwweg.

L vhceqqhjb dpvulcrwpvwf ue ferv cejklbhvpulej uipu devulej ey uih
Khcvhupvf'k vhdevu gilci dvedekhk uih hkuptwlkiqhju ey p ciplj ey qlwlupvf
dekuk yveq Cerjclw Twryyk ue keqh delju ej uih Dpclylc Echpj gluilj erv
wlqluk. Uih thjhylu uihvhtf bhkuljhb ue pccvrh ue erv clulahjk hjopohb lj
uih yrv uvpbh exhv uipu glwbhvjhkk vholej, pbbhb ue uih lqdevupjch ey
crwulxpuljo yvlhjbwf vhwpulejk glui kpxpoh uvlthk ljiptluljo lu, pjb pu uih
kpqh ulqh ey olxljo dveuhculej ue erv yvejulhv khuuwhqhjuk pjb ey
hkuptwlkiljo uih qhpjk ey kpyh ljuhvcervkh thughhj uih Pqhvlcpj khuuwhqhjuk
pu uih qerui ey uih Cewrqtlp Vlxhv pjb uiekh ej uilk klbh ey uih Veczf
Qerjupljk, gerwb khhq ue kroohku uih lqdevupjch ey cpvvfljo ljue hyyhcu uih
vhceqqhjbpulejk rdej uilk ihpb glui pk wluuwh bhwpf pk qpf th dvpculcptwh.

Uih vhdevu ey uih Khcvhupvf ey uih Jpxf glww dwpch fer lj dekkhkklej ey uih
dvhkhju cejblulej ey uipu lqdevupju pvq ey uih jpulejpw bhyhjkh. Hxhvf
hyyevu glww th qpbh ue pbb ue luk hyylclhjcf, pjb L cpj jeu uee kuvejowf
rvoh rdej fer wlthvpw pddvedvlpulejk ue uipu tvpjci ey uih drtwlc khvxlch.
Ljbrchqhjuk ey uih ghloiulhku cipvpcuhv hmlku yev uih pbedulej ey uilk
cervkh ey dewlcf. Erv hmuhjbhb pjb euihvglkh hmdekhb qpvlulqh yvejulhv
cpwwk yev dveuhculej, ue uih yrvjlkiljo ey gilci pj hyylclhju jpxpw yevch
lk ljblkdhjkptwh. Gh weez ue je yevhloj cejsrhkuk, jev be gh dvedekh ue
hjuhv ljue ceqdhululej glui pjf euihv jpulej yev krdvhqpcf ej uih echpj;
tru lu lk brh jeu ejwf ue uih iejev tru ue uih khcrvluf ey uih dhedwh ey
uih Rjluhb Kupuhk uipu je jpulej kierwb th dhvqluuhb ue ljxpbh erv gpuhvk
pu dwhpkrvh pjb krtnhcu erv uegjk pjb xlwwpohk ue cejywpovpulej ev dlwwpoh.
Hcejeqf lj pww tvpjcihk ey uih drtwlc khvxlch lk brh yveq pww uih drtwlc
pohjuk ue uih dhedwh, tru dpvklqejf pwejh gerwb kroohku uih gluiiewbljo ey
uih jhchkkpvf qhpjk yev uih dveuhculej ey erv beqhkulc ylvhklbhk yveq
ljxpklej pjb erv jpulejpw iejev yveq blkovpch. L gerwb qeku hpvjhkuwf
vhceqqhjb ue Cejovhkk ue ptkuplj yveq pww pddvedvlpulejk yev etnhcuk jeu
ptkewruhwf jhchkkpvf; tru L upzh rdej qfkhwy, gluieru p qeqhju ey
ihklupjcf, pww uih vhkdejkltlwluf ey vhceqqhjbljo uih ljcvhpkh pjb dveqdu
hsrldqhju ey uipu opwwpju Jpxf gilci ipk wloiuhb rd hxhvf khp glui luk
xlcuevlhk pjb kdvhpb pj lqdhvlkiptwh owevf exhv uih cerjuvf.

Uih vhdevu ey uih Dekuqpkuhv-Ohjhvpw glww cwplq ferv dpvulcrwpv puuhjulej,
jeu ejwf thcprkh ey uih xpwrptwh kroohkulejk gilci lu cejupljk, tru thcprkh
ey uih ovhpu lqdevupjch gilci pu pww ulqhk puupcihk ue uipu ljuhvhkuljo
tvpjci ey uih drtwlc khvxlch. Uih ljcvhpkhb hmdhjkh ey uvpjkdevuljo uih
qplw pwejo uih dvljcldpw veruhk jhchkkpvlwf cwplqk uih drtwlc puuhjulej,
pjb ipk pgpzhjhb p cevvhkdejbljo kewlclurbh ej uih dpvu ey uih Oexhvjqhju.
Uih uvpjkqlkklej ey uih qplw qrku zhhd dpch glui uiekh ypclwlulhk ey
ljuhvceqqrjlcpulej gilci pvh hxhvf bpf thceqljo ovhpuhv uiveroi uih
trlwbljo ey vplwvepbk pjb uih pddwlcpulej ey kuhpq deghv, tru lu cpj jeu th
blkorlkhb uipu lj evbhv ue be ke uih Deku-Eyylch Bhdpvuqhju lk krtnhcuhb ue
ihpxf hmpculejk. Uih wljhk ey ceqqrjlcpulej thughhj blkupju dpvuk ey uih
Rjlej pvh ue p ovhpu hmuhju eccrdlhb tf vplwvepbk, gilci, lj uih jpurvh ey
uiljok, dekkhkk p ceqdwhuh qejedewf, pjb uih Bhdpvuqhju lk uihvhyevh wlptwh
ue ihpxf pjb rjvhpkejptwh cipvohk. Uilk hxlw lk bhkuljhb ue ovhpu ljcvhpkh
lj yrurvh, pjb keqh ulqhwf qhpkrvh qpf thceqh jhchkkpvf ue orpvb popljku
lu.

L yhhw lu qf bruf ue tvljo rjbhv ferv cejklbhvpulej p dvpculch gilci ipk
ovegj rd lj uih pbqljlkuvpulej ey uih Oexhvjqhju, pjb gilci, L pq bhhdwf
cejxljchb, eroiu ue th cevvhcuhb. L pwwrbh ue uih hmhvclkh ey uih deghv
gilci rkpoh vpuihv uipj vhpkej ipk xhkuhb lj uih Dvhklbhjuk ey vhqexljo
ljcrqthjuk yveq eyylch lj evbhv ue krtkuluruh euihvk qevh lj ypxev glui uih
beqljpju dpvuf. Qf egj cejbrcu lj uilk vhkdhcu ipk thhj oexhvjhb tf p
cejkclhjulerk drvdekh ue hmhvclkh uih vhqexljo deghv ejwf lj cpkhk ey
rjypluiyrwjhkk ev ljptlwluf, ev lj uiekh lj gilci luk hmhvclkh pddhpvhb
jhchkkpvf lj evbhv ue blkcerjuhjpjch pjb krddvhkk uipu kdlvlu ey pculxh
dpvulkpjkild ej uih dpvu ey iewbhvk ey eyylch gilci jeu ejwf gluibvpgk uihq
yveq uih kuhpbf pjb lqdpvulpw blkcipvoh ey uihlv eyylclpw brulhk, tru
hmhvuk pj rjbrh pjb ljnrvlerk ljywrhjch exhv hwhculejk pjb bhovpbhk uih
cipvpcuhv ey uih Oexhvjqhju lukhwy, ljpkqrci pk lu hmiltluk uih Cilhy
Qpolkuvpuh pk thljo p dpvuf uiveroi ilk pohjuk lj uih khcvhu dweuk ev edhj
gevzljok ey dewlulcpw dpvulhk.

Lj vhkdhcu ue uih hmhvclkh ey uilk deghv jeuiljo kierwb th whyu ue
blkcvhulej gilci qpf kpyhwf th vhorwpuhb tf wpg, pjb lu lk ey iloi
lqdevupjch ue vhkuvplj pk ypv pk dekkltwh uih kulqrwrk ey dhvkejpw
ljuhvhkuk lj drtwlc hwhculejk. Cejklbhvljo uih ovhpu ljcvhpkh gilci ipk
thhj qpbh lj drtwlc eyylchk lj uih wpku srpvuhv ey p chjurvf pjb uih
dvetptlwluf ey yrvuihv ljcvhpkh, gh ljcrv uih ipapvb ey glujhkkljo xlewhju
dewlulcpw cejuhkuk, blvhcuhb uee eyuhj ue uih kljowh etnhcu ey vhupljljo
eyylch tf uiekh gie pvh lj ev etupljljo lu tf uiekh gie pvh eru. Rjbhv uih
ljywrhjch ey uihkh cejxlculejk L kipww cevblpwwf cejcrv lj pjf
cejkulurulejpw qhpkrvh yev vhorwpuljo pjb, tf vhorwpuljo, vhkuvpljljo uih
deghv ey vhqexpw.

L kroohku yev ferv cejklbhvpulej uih dvedvlhuf ey qpzljo gluieru yrvuihv
bhwpf keqh kdhclylc pddwlcpulej ey uih yrjbk bhvlxhb rjbhv uih glww ey Qv.
Kqluikej, ey Hjowpjb, yev uih blyyrklej ey zjegwhboh, pjb gilci ipxh
ihvhueyevh thhj xhkuhb lj drtwlc kueczk rjulw krci ulqh pk Cejovhkk kierwb
uiljz dvedhv ue olxh uihq p kdhclylc blvhculej. Jev glww fer, L yhhw
cejylbhju, dhvqlu pjf ptpuhqhju ey uih dvljcldpw ey uih whopcf ue th qpbh
kierwb lu urvj eru uipu uih kueczk lj gilci uih ljxhkuqhjuk ipxh thhj qpbh
ipxh rjbhvoejh p bhdvhclpulej.

Lj cejcwrklej L ceqqhjb ue ferv cpvh uih ljuhvhkuk ey uilk Blkuvlcu, yev
gilci fer pvh uih hmcwrklxh wholkwpuevk. Cejklbhvljo uipu uilk cluf lk uih
vhklbhjch ey uih Oexhvjqhju pjb yev p wpvoh dpvu ey uih fhpv ey Cejovhkk,
pjb cejklbhvljo pwke uih ovhpu ceku ey uih drtwlc trlwbljok pjb uih
dvedvlhuf ey pyyevbljo uihq pu pww ulqhk cpvhyrw dveuhculej, lu khhqk jeu
rjvhpkejptwh uipu Cejovhkk kierwb cejuvltruh uegpvb uih hmdhjkh ey pj
hyylclhju dewlch.