Txnncy-Zjhjfxqa ct hdx Axqkhx kqw Dcpax ct Exsexaxqhkhjrxa:

Ajqzx hdx zciixqzxixqh ct hdx hxei tce ydjzd J dkrx bxxq kukjq zknnxw jqhc
cttjzx qc tjh czzkajcq dka kejaxq tce xmsexaajqu hc ig txnncy zjhjfxqa kh
nkeux hdx wxxs kqw exasxzhtpn axqax ydjzd J txxn ct hdx exqxyxw hxahjicqg
ct spbnjz kssecbkhjcq. Ydjnx cq hdx cqx dkqw jh kykoxqxw ig uekhjhpwx tce
knn hdcax jqahkqzxa ct kttxzhjcqkhx skehjknjhg yjhd ydjzd J dkrx bxxq
dcqcexw bg ig zcpqheg, cq hdx chdxe jh zcpnw qch sexrxqh kq xkeqxah yjad
tce hdkh exhjexixqh teci ydjzd qc sejrkhx zcqajwxekhjcq adcpnw xrxe dkrx
hceq ix. Bph jqtnpxqzxw bg hdx bxnjxt hdkh ig zcqwpzh ycpnw bx xahjikhxw
kzzcewjqu hc jha exkn ichjrxa, kqw hdkh hdx sxcsnx, kqw hdx kphdcejhjxa
wxejrxw teci hdxi, ycpnw apssceh xmxehjcqa dkrjqu qchdjqu sxeacqkn tce
hdxje cbvxzh, J dkrx cbxgxw hdx apttekux ydjzd zciikqwxw ix hc exapix hdx
Xmxzphjrx scyxe; kqw J dpibng jisncex hdkh Bxjqu cq ydcax yjnn hdx tkhx ct
qkhjcqa wxsxqwa hc zecyq yjhd apzzxaa cpe iphpkn xqwxkrcea tce hdx uxqxekn
dkssjqxaa.

Ka accq ka hdx yke jq Xpecsx dkw xibekzxw hdcax scyxea yjhd ydci hdx Pqjhxw
Ahkhxa dkrx hdx icah xmhxqajrx exnkhjcqa hdxex yka exkacq hc kssexdxqw hdkh
cpe jqhxezcpeax yjhd hdxi ijudh bx jqhxeepshxw kqw cpe wjascajhjcq tce
sxkzx wekyq jqhc lpxahjcq bg hdx apasjzjcqa hcc cthxq xqhxehkjqxw bg
bxnnjuxexqh qkhjcqa. Jh axxixw, hdxextcex, hc bx ig wphg hc kwicqjad cpe
zjhjfxqa ct hdx zcqaxlpxqzxa ct k zcqhekbkqw hekwx kqw ct dcahjnx kzha hc
kqg ct hdx skehjxa, kqw hc cbhkjq bg k wxznkekhjcq ct hdx xmjahjqu nxukn
ahkhx ct hdjqua kq xkajxe kwijaajcq ct cpe ejudh hc hdx jiipqjhjxa
bxncqujqu hc cpe ajhpkhjcq. Pqwxe hdxax jisexaajcqa hdx secznkikhjcq ydjzd
yjnn bx nkjw bxtcex gcp yka jaapxw.

Jq hdja scahpex ct kttkjea, bchd qxy kqw wxnjzkhx, J exacnrxw hc kwcsh
uxqxekn epnxa ydjzd adcpnw zcqtcei hc hdx hexkhjxa kqw kaaxeh hdx
sejrjnxuxa ct hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa. Hdxax yxex exwpzxw jqhc k agahxi, ydjzd
yjnn bx zciipqjzkhxw hc gcp. Knhdcpud J dkrx qch hdcpudh ct igaxnt kh
njbxehg hc tcebjw hdx aknx ct hdx sejfxa sxeijhhxw bg cpe hexkhg ct
zciixezx yjhd Tekqzx hc bx becpudh jqhc cpe sceha, J dkrx qch extpaxw hc
zkpax hdxi hc bx exahcexw ydxq hdxg yxex hkoxq yjhdjq hdx sechxzhjcq ct cpe
hxeejhceg, ce bg rxaaxna zciijaajcqxw ce xlpjssxw jq k ykenjox tcei yjhdjq
hdx njijha ct hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa.

Jh exaha yjhd hdx yjawci ct Zcquexaa hc zceexzh, jisecrx, ce xqtcezx hdja
snkq ct seczxwpex; kqw jh yjnn secbkbng bx tcpqw xmsxwjxqh hc xmhxqw hdx
nxukn zcwx kqw hdx vpejawjzhjcq ct hdx zcpeha ct hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa hc ikqg
zkaxa ydjzd, hdcpud wxsxqwxqh cq sejqzjsnxa knexkwg exzcuqjfxw, wxikqw acix
tpehdxe secrjajcqa.

Ydxex jqwjrjwpkna adknn, yjhdjq hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa, keekg hdxiaxnrxa jq
dcahjnjhg kukjqah kqg ct hdx scyxea kh yke, ce xqhxe pscq ijnjhkeg
xmsxwjhjcqa ce xqhxesejaxa yjhdjq hdx vpejawjzhjcq ct hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa, ce
papes kqw xmxezjax vpwjzjkn kphdcejhg yjhdjq hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa, ce ydxex
hdx sxqknhjxa cq rjcnkhjcqa ct hdx nky ct qkhjcqa ikg dkrx bxxq
jqwjahjqzhng ikeoxw, ce kex jqkwxlpkhx--hdxax cttxqaxa zkq qch exzxjrx hcc
xkeng kqw zncax kq khhxqhjcq, kqw exlpjex secish kqw wxzjajrx exixwjxa.

Ydkhacxrxe hdcax exixwjxa ikg bx, hdxg yjnn bx yxnn kwijqjahxexw bg hdx
vpwjzjkeg, ydc scaaxaa k ncqu-xahkbnjadxw zcpeax ct jqrxahjukhjcq,
xttxzhpkn seczxaa, kqw cttjzxea jq hdx dkbjh ct xmxzphjqu jh.

Jq njox ikqqxe, ka axrxekn ct hdx zcpeha dkrx wcpbhxw, pqwxe skehjzpnke
zjezpiahkqzxa, hdxje scyxe hc njbxekhx hdx rxaaxna ct k qkhjcq kh sxkzx,
kqw xrxq ct k zjhjfxq ct hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa, knhdcpud axjfxw pqwxe k tknax
zcnce ct bxjqu dcahjnx secsxehg, kqw dkrx wxqjxw hdxje scyxe hc njbxekhx
zxehkjq zkshpexa yjhdjq hdx sechxzhjcq ct cpe hxeejhceg, jh ycpnw axxi
secsxe hc exupnkhx hdxje vpejawjzhjcq jq hdxax scjqha. Bph jt hdx Xmxzphjrx
ja hc bx hdx exaceh jq xjhdxe ct hdx hyc nkah-ixqhjcqxw zkaxa, jh ja dcsxw
hdkh dx yjnn bx kphdcejfxw bg nky hc dkrx tkzha kazxehkjqxw bg hdx zcpeha
ydxq tce dja cyq jqtceikhjcq dx adknn exlpxah jh.

J zkq qch exzciixqw hc gcpe qchjzx ixkapexa tce hdx tpntjnnixqh ct cpe
wphjxa hc hdx exah ct hdx ycenw yjhdcph kukjq sexaajqu pscq gcp hdx
qxzxaajhg ct snkzjqu cpeaxnrxa jq k zcqwjhjcq ct zcisnxhx wxtxqax kqw ct
xmkzhjqu teci hdxi hdx tpntjnnixqh ct hdxje wphjxa hcykew pa. Hdx Pqjhxw
Ahkhxa cpudh qch hc jqwpnux k sxeapkajcq hdkh, zcqhekeg hc hdx cewxe ct
dpikq xrxqha, hdxg yjnn tcexrxe oxxs kh k wjahkqzx hdcax skjqtpn kssxkna hc
keia yjhd ydjzd hdx djahceg ct xrxeg chdxe qkhjcq kbcpqwa. Hdxex ja k ekqo
wpx hc hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa kicqu qkhjcqa ydjzd yjnn bx yjhddxnw, jt qch
kbacnphxng ncah, bg hdx exsphkhjcq ct yxkoqxaa. Jt yx wxajex hc krcjw
jqapnh, yx ipah bx kbnx hc exsxn jh; jt yx wxajex hc axzpex sxkzx, cqx ct
hdx icah scyxetpn jqahepixqha ct cpe ejajqu secasxejhg, jh ipah bx oqcyq
hdkh yx kex kh knn hjixa exkwg tce yke. Hdx wczpixqha ydjzd yjnn bx
sexaxqhxw hc gcp yjnn adxy hdx kicpqh kqw ojqwa ct keia kqw ijnjhkeg ahcexa
qcy jq cpe ikukfjqxa kqw keaxqkna; kqw gxh kq kwwjhjcq xrxq hc hdxax
apssnjxa zkq qch yjhd sepwxqzx bx qxunxzhxw, ka jh ycpnw nxkrx qchdjqu hc
hdx pqzxehkjqhg ct seczpejqu ykenjox ksskekhpa jq hdx icixqh ct spbnjz
wkquxe.

Qce zkq apzd keekquxixqha, yjhd apzd cbvxzha, bx xmscaxw hc hdx zxqapex ce
vxkncpag ct hdx ykeixah tejxqwa ct exspbnjzkq ucrxeqixqh. Hdxg kex
jqzkskbnx ct kbpax jq hdx dkqwa ct hdx ijnjhjk, ydc cpudh hc scaaxaa k
sejwx jq bxjqu hdx wxscajhceg ct hdx tcezx ct hdx Exspbnjz, kqw ikg bx
hekjqxw hc k wxuexx ct xqxeug xlpkn hc xrxeg ijnjhkeg xmjuxqzg ct hdx
Pqjhxw Ahkhxa. Bph jh ja kq jqlpjeg ydjzd zkq qch bx hcc acnxiqng speapxw,
ydxhdxe hdx kzh "icex xttxzhpknng hc secrjwx tce hdx qkhjcqkn wxtxqax bg
xahkbnjadjqu kq pqjtcei ijnjhjk hdecpudcph hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa" dka ceukqjfxw
hdxi ac ka hc secwpzx hdxje tpnn xttxzh; ydxhdxe gcpe cyq xmsxejxqzx jq hdx
axrxekn Ahkhxa dka qch wxhxzhxw acix jisxetxzhjcqa jq hdx azdxix, kqw
ydxhdxe k ikhxejkn txkhpex jq kq jisecrxixqh ct jh cpudh qch hc bx hc
kttcew kq csscehpqjhg tce hdx ahpwg ct hdcax bekqzdxa ct hdx ijnjhkeg keh
ydjzd zkq azkezxng xrxe bx khhkjqxw bg sekzhjzx kncqx.

Hdx zcqqxzhjcq ct hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa yjhd Xpecsx dka bxzcix xmhexixng
jqhxexahjqu. Hdx czzpeexqzxa ydjzd exnkhx hc jh kqw dkrx skaaxw pqwxe hdx
oqcynxwux ct hdx Xmxzphjrx yjnn bx xmdjbjhxw hc Zcquexaa jq k apbaxlpxqh
zciipqjzkhjcq.

Ydxq yx zcqhxisnkhx hdx yke cq cpe tecqhjxea, jh ikg bx hepng kttjeixw hdkh
xrxeg exkacqkbnx xttceh dka bxxq ikwx hc kwvpah hdx zkpaxa ct wjaaxqajcq
yjhd hdx Jqwjkqa qcehd ct hdx Cdjc. Hdx jqahepzhjcqa ujrxq hc hdx
zciijaajcqxea xrjqzx k icwxekhjcq kqw xlpjhg seczxxwjqu teci k ajqzxex ncrx
ct sxkzx, kqw k njbxeknjhg dkrjqu qc exahejzhjcq bph hdx xaaxqhjkn
jqhxexaha kqw wjuqjhg ct hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa. Hdx khhxish, dcyxrxe, ct kq
kijzkbnx qxuchjkhjcq dkrjqu bxxq tepahekhxw, hdx heccsa dkrx ikezdxw hc kzh
cttxqajrxng. Knhdcpud hdx secscaxw hexkhg wjw qch keexah hdx secuexaa ct
ijnjhkeg sexskekhjcq, jh ja wcpbhtpn dcy tke hdx kwrkqzx ct hdx axkacq,
bxtcex uccw tkjhd vpahjtjxw kzhjrx icrxixqha, ikg exhkew hdxi wpejqu hdx
exikjqwxe ct hdx gxke. Teci hdx sksxea kqw jqhxnnjuxqzx ydjzd exnkhx hc
hdja jiscehkqh apbvxzh gcp yjnn wxhxeijqx ydxhdxe hdx wxtjzjxqzg jq hdx
qpibxe ct heccsa uekqhxw bg nky adknn bx zcisxqakhxw bg apzzcea ct ijnjhjk,
ce kwwjhjcqkn xqzcpekuxixqha adknn bx secscaxw hc exzepjha.

Kq kqmjxhg dka bxxq knac wxicqahekhxw bg hdx Xmxzphjrx tce sxkzx yjhd hdx
Zexxoa kqw hdx Zdxecoxxa. Hdx tceixe dkrx bxxq exnjxrxw yjhd zceq kqw yjhd
znchdjqu, kqw cttxqajrx ixkapexa kukjqah hdxi secdjbjhxw wpejqu hdx exzxaa
ct Zcquexaa. Hc akhjatg hdx zcisnkjqha ct hdx nkhhxe, secaxzphjcqa dkrx
bxxq jqahjhphxw tce hdx rjcnxqzxa zciijhhxw pscq hdxi. Bph hdx sksxea ydjzd
yjnn bx wxnjrxexw hc gcp wjazncax hdx zejhjzkn tcchjqu cq ydjzd yx ahkqw jq
exukew hc bchd hdcax hejbxa, kqw jh ja yjhd Zcquexaa hc secqcpqzx ydkh
adknn bx wcqx.

Kthxe hdxg adknn dkrx secrjwxw tce hdx sexaxqh xixeuxqzg, jh yjnn ixejh
hdxje icah axejcpa nkbcea hc exqwxe hekqlpjnnjhg yjhd hdx akrkuxa sxeikqxqh
bg zexkhjqu hjxa ct jqhxexah. Qxmh hc k ejucecpa xmxzphjcq ct vpahjzx cq
hdx rjcnkhcea ct sxkzx, hdx xahkbnjadixqh ct zciixezx yjhd hdx Jqwjkq
qkhjcqa jq bxdknt ct hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa ja icah njoxng hc zcqzjnjkhx hdxje
khhkzdixqh. Bph jh cpudh hc bx zcqwpzhxw yjhdcph tekpw, yjhdcph xmhcehjcq,
yjhd zcqahkqh kqw snxqhjtpn apssnjxa, yjhd k exkwg ikeoxh tce hdx
zciicwjhjxa ct hdx Jqwjkqa kqw k ahkhxw sejzx tce ydkh hdxg ujrx jq skgixqh
kqw exzxjrx jq xmzdkqux. Jqwjrjwpkna yjnn qch speapx apzd k hekttjz pqnxaa
hdxg bx knnpexw bg hdx dcsx ct sectjh; bph jh yjnn bx xqcpud tce hdx Pqjhxw
Ahkhxa hc bx exjibpeaxw cqng. Adcpnw hdja exzciixqwkhjcq kzzcew yjhd hdx
csjqjcq ct Zcquexaa, hdxg yjnn exzcnnxzh hdkh jh zkq qch bx kzzcisnjadxw bg
kqg ixkqa gxh jq hdx dkqwa ct hdx Xmxzphjrx.

Uxqhnxixq ct hdx Dcpax ct Exsexaxqhkhjrxa:

Hdx zciijaajcqxea zdkeuxw yjhd hdx axhhnxixqh ct kzzcpqha bxhyxxq hdx
Pqjhxw Ahkhxa kqw jqwjrjwpkn Ahkhxa zcqznpwxw hdxje jiscehkqh tpqzhjcq
yjhdjq hdx hjix njijhxw bg nky, kqw hdx bknkqzxa ahepzo jq hdxje exsceh,
ydjzd yjnn bx nkjw bxtcex Zcquexaa, dkrx bxxq snkzxw cq hdx bccoa ct hdx
Hexkapeg.

Cq hdx tjeah wkg ct Vpqx nkah kq jqahknnixqh ct 1,000,000 tncejqa bxzkix
skgkbnx cq hdx nckqa ct hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa jq Dcnnkqw. Hdja yka kwvpahxw bg
k secncqukhjcq ct hdx sxejcw ct exjibpeaxixqh jq qkhpex ct k qxy nckq kh kq
jqhxexah ct 5% tce hdx hxei ct hxq gxkea, kqw hdx xmsxqaxa ct hdja
csxekhjcq yxex k zciijaajcq ct 3%.

Hdx tjeah jqahknnixqh ct hdx nckq ct $2,000,000 teci hdx Bkqo ct hdx Pqjhxw
Ahkhxa dka bxxq skjw, ka yka wjexzhxw bg nky. Tce hdx axzcqw jh ja
qxzxaakeg hdkh secrjajcq bx ikwx.

Qc sxzpqjkeg zcqajwxekhjcq ja icex peuxqh hdkq hdx exupnke exwxishjcq kqw
wjazdkeux ct hdx spbnjz wxbh. Cq qcqx zkq wxnkg bx icex jqvpejcpa ce kq
xzcqcig ct hjix icex rknpkbnx.

Hdx secwpzhjrxqxaa ct hdx spbnjz exrxqpxa djhdxehc dka zcqhjqpxw hc xlpkn
hdx kqhjzjskhjcqa ydjzd yxex tceixw ct jh, bph jh ja qch xmsxzhxw hc secrx
zciixqapekhx yjhd knn hdx cbvxzha ydjzd dkrx bxxq apuuxahxw. Acix kpmjnjkeg
secrjajcqa yjnn hdxextcex, jh ja sexapixw, bx exlpjajhx, kqw jh ja dcsxw
hdkh hdxax ikg bx ikwx zcqajahxqhng yjhd k wpx exukew hc hdx zcqrxqjxqzx ct
cpe zjhjfxqa, ydc zkq qch bph bx axqajbnx ct hdx hepx yjawci ct
xqzcpqhxejqu k aiknn sexaxqh kwwjhjcq hc hdxje zcqhejbphjcqa hc cbrjkhx k
tphpex kzzpipnkhjcq ct bpehdxqa.

Bph dxex J zkq qch tcebxke hc exzciixqw k exsxkn ct hdx hkm cq hdx
hekqascehkhjcq ct spbnjz sejqha. Hdxex ja qc exacpezx ac tjei tce hdx
Ucrxeqixqh ct hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa ka hdx kttxzhjcqa ct hdx sxcsnx, upjwxw bg
kq xqnjudhxqxw scnjzg; kqw hc hdja sejikeg uccw qchdjqu zkq zcqwpzx icex
hdkq k tkjhdtpn exsexaxqhkhjcq ct spbnjz seczxxwjqua, wjttpaxw yjhdcph
exahekjqh hdecpudcph hdx Pqjhxw Ahkhxa.

Kq xahjikhx ct hdx kssecsejkhjcqa qxzxaakeg tce hdx zpeexqh axerjzx ct hdx
xqapjqu gxke kqw k ahkhxixqh ct k spezdkax ct keia kqw ijnjhkeg ahcexa ikwx
wpejqu hdx exzxaa yjnn bx sexaxqhxw hc Zcquexaa.

Uxqhnxixq ct hdx Axqkhx kqw ct hdx Dcpax ct Exsexaxqhkhjrxa:

Hdx axrxekn apbvxzha hc ydjzd J dkrx qcy extxeexw csxq k yjwx ekqux hc gcpe
wxnjbxekhjcqa kqw jqrcnrx acix ct hdx zdcjzxah jqhxexaha ct cpe zciicq
zcpqheg. Sxeijh ix hc bejqu hc gcpe exixibekqzx hdx ikuqjhpwx ct gcpe hkao.
Yjhdcph kq pqsexvpwjzxw zccnqxaa hdx yxntkex ct hdx Ucrxeqixqh ikg bx
dkfkewxw; yjhdcph dkeicqg ka tke ka zcqajaha yjhd texxwci ct axqhjixqh jha
wjuqjhg ikg bx ncah. Bph ka hdx nxujankhjrx seczxxwjqua ct hdx Pqjhxw
Ahkhxa yjnn qxrxe, J hepah, bx exseckzdxw tce hdx ykqh ct hxisxe ce ct
zkqwce, ac adknn qch hdx spbnjz dkssjqxaa nkqupjad teci hdx ykqh ct ig
ahexqpcpa kqw ykeixah zccsxekhjcq.

UC. YKADJQUHCQ