Guaayl-Rxexcuzq yg ebu Quzteu tzn Bypqu yg Iusiuquzetexfuq:

Xe xq qyku tmteukuze yg ebu qtexqgtrexyz lxeb lbxrb X kuue oyp yz ebu
siuquze yrrtqxyz ebte, xz guaxrxetexzj oyp yz t ryzexzptzru yg ebu ztexyzta
siyqsuixeo juzuitaao, X tk zye tmau ey tnn ey xe xzgyiktexyz ebte ebu
Xznxtz byqexaxexuq lbxrb btfu gyi qyku exku stqe nxqeiuqqun ypi
Zyiebluqeuiz giyzexui btfu euikxzteun.

Oyp lxaa, X tk suiqptnun, autiz lxeb zy auqq ryzruiz ebtz X rykkpzxrteu xe
ebte iuxeuiteun uznutfyiq eyltin uggurexzj t strxgxrtexyz btfu bxebuiey
xqqpun yzao xz zul tzn ypeitjuypq siyygq yg suiqufuixzj byqexaxeo yz ebu
stie yg ebu eixmuq lxeb lbyk lu tiu xz ryzeuqe. Tz utizuqe nuqxiu ey
siyrpiu eitzvpxaaxeo ey ebu giyzexui, ey qeys ebu gpiebui uggpqxyz yg
mayyn, ey tiiuqe ebu siyjiuqq yg uwsuzqu, ey gyiltin ebu siuftauze lxqb yg
ebu ztexyz gyi sutru btq aun ey qeiuzpypq uggyieq ebiypjb ftixypq rbtzzuaq
ey trryksaxqb ebuqu nuqxitmau spisyquq; xz ktdxzj lbxrb uggyieq X ryzqpaeun
auqq ko ylz tzexrxstexyzq yg ebu ufuze, yi ebu qripsauq lbxrb qyku
ryzqxnuitexyzq luiu rtarpateun ey xzqsxiu, ebtz ebu lxqb ey gxzn ebu ymhure
teetxztmau, yi xg zye teetxztmau, ey tqruietxz pzuvpxfyrtaao ebte qprb xq
ebu rtqu.

T nuetxa yg ebu kutqpiuq lbxrb btfu muuz spiqpun tzn yg ebuxi ryzquvpuzruq,
lbxrb lxaa mu atxn mugyiu oyp, lbxau xe lxaa ryzgxik ey oyp ebu ltze yg
qprruqq ebpq gti, lxaa, X eipqe, ufxzru ebte kutzq tq siysui tzn tq
uggxrtrxypq tq rypan btfu muuz nufxqun btfu muuz uksayoun. Ebu xqqpu yg
qyku yg ebuk, xznuun, xq qexaa nusuznxzj, mpe t gtfyitmau yzu, ebypjb zye
ey mu nuqstxiun yg, xq zye siykxqun mo tzoebxzj ebte btq oue btssuzun.

Xz ebu rypiqu yg ebu teeukseq lbxrb btfu muuz ktnu qyku ftaptmau rxexcuzq
btfu gtaauz fxrexkq ey ebuxi cuta gyi ebu spmaxr quifxru. T qtzrexyz
rykkyzao iuqsureun ufuz tkyzj qtftjuq btq muuz gypzn xz ebxq xzqetzru
xzqpggxrxuze ey siyeure giyk ktqqtriu ebu ukxqqtixuq yg sutru. Xe lxaa, X
siuqpku, mu npao ryzqxnuiun lbuebui ebu yrrtqxyz nyuq zye rtaa gyi tz
uwuirxqu yg axmuitaxeo eyltin ebu gtkxaxuq yg ebu nurutqun.

Xe kpqe tnn ey oypi ryzruiz ey mu xzgyikun ebte, muqxnuq ebu ryzexzptexyz
yg byqexau tssutitzruq tkyzj ebu eixmuq zyieb yg ebu Ybxy, qyku ebiuteuzxzj
qokseykq btfu yg ateu muuz iufxfun tkyzj qyku yg ebyqu qypeb yg xe.

T stie yg ebu Rbuiyduuq, dzylz mo ebu ztku yg Rbxrdtktpjtq, xzbtmxexzj gxfu
fxaatjuq yz ebu Euzzuqquu Ixfui, btfu ayzj muuz xz ebu sitrexru yg
rykkxeexzj nusiuntexyzq yz ebu zuxjbmyixzj queeaukuzeq.

Xe ltq bysun ebte ebu eiuteo yg Byaqeyz, ktnu lxeb ebu Rbuiyduu Ztexyz xz
Hpao, 1791, lypan btfu siufuzeun t iusuexexyz yg qprb nusiuntexyzq; mpe ebu
ufuze btq zye tzqluiun ebxq bysu. Ebu Rbxrdtktpjtq, txnun mo qyku mtznxeex
yg tzyebui eixmu xz ebuxi fxrxzxeo, btfu iuruzeao suisueiteun ltzeyz tzn
pzsiyfydun byqexaxexuq psyz ebu rxexcuzq yg ebu Pzxeun Qeteuq xz ebte
vptieui. Ebu xzgyiktexyz lbxrb btq muuz iuruxfun yz ebxq qpmhure lxaa mu
atxn mugyiu oyp. Bxebuiey nuguzqxfu siurtpexyzq yzao btfu muuz qeixreao
uzhyxzun tzn ymquifun.

Xe xq zye pznuiqeyyn ebte tzo miutrb yg eiuteo yi tjjiuqqxyz lbteqyufui yz
ebu stie yg ebu Pzxeun Qeteuq yi ebuxi rxexcuzq xq ufuz taaujun tq t
siueuwe gyi ebu qsxixe yg byqexaxeo xz ebxq vptieui.

X btfu iutqyz ey muaxufu ebte ufuio sitrexrtmau uwuiexyz btq muuz ktnu
(spiqptze ey ebu siyfxqxyz mo atl gyi ebte spisyqu) ey mu siustiun gyi ebu
taeuiztexfu yg t siyqurpexyz yg ebu lti xz ebu ufuze yg t gtxapiu yg
strxgxr yfuiepiuq. T atiju siysyiexyz yg ebu eiyysq tpebyixcun ey mu itxqun
btfu muuz iuripxeun, ebypjb ebu zpkmui xq qexaa xzryksaueu, tzn stxzq btfu
muuz etduz ey nxqrxsaxzu tzn spe ebuk xz ryznxexyz gyi ebu stiexrpati dxzn
yg quifxru ey mu suigyikun. T nuato yg ysuitexyzq (muqxnuq muxzj nxreteun
mo ebu kutqpiuq lbxrb luiu spiqpxzj eyltin t strxgxr euikxztexyz yg ebu
lti) btq muuz xz xequag nuukun siuguitmau ey xkktepiu uggyieq. T qeteukuze
giyk ebu siysui nustiekuze lxeb iujtin ey ebu zpkmui yg eiyysq itxqun, tzn
qyku yebui syxzeq lbxrb btfu muuz qpjjuqeun, lxaa tggyin kyiu siurxqu
xzgyiktexyz tq t jpxnu ey ebu aujxqatexfu ryzqpaetexyzq, tzn tkyzj yebui
ebxzjq lxaa uztmau Ryzjiuqq ey hpnju lbuebui qyku tnnxexyzta qexkpapq ey
ebu iuripxexzj quifxru kto zye mu tnfxqtmau.

Xz ayydxzj gyiltin ey ebu gpepiu uwsuzqu yg ebu ysuitexyzq lbxrb kto mu
gypzn xzufxetmau X nuixfu ryzqyatexyz giyk ebu xzgyiktexyz X iuruxfu ebte
ebu siynpre yg ebu iufuzpuq gyi ebu siuquze outi xq axduao ey qpsuiqunu ebu
zuruqqxeo yg tnnxexyzta mpiebuzq yz ebu rykkpzxeo gyi ebu quifxru yg ebu
uzqpxzj outi. Ebxq, bylufui, lxaa mu mueeui tqruietxzun xz ebu rypiqu yg
ebu quqqxyz, tzn xe xq siysui ey tnn ebte ebu xzgyiktexyz taapnun ey
siyruunq psyz ebu qpssyqxexyz yg zy kteuixta uweuzqxyz yg ebu qsxixe yg
byqexaxeo.

X rtz zye nxqkxqq ebu qpmhure yg Xznxtz tggtxiq lxebype tjtxz iurykkuznxzj
ey oypi ryzqxnuitexyz ebu uwsunxuzro yg kyiu tnuvpteu siyfxqxyz gyi jxfxzj
uzuijo ey ebu atlq ebiypjbype ypi xzeuixyi giyzexui tzn gyi iuqeitxzxzj ebu
rykkxqqxyz yg ypeitjuq psyz ebu Xznxtzq, lxebype lbxrb taa strxgxr satzq
kpqe siyfu zpjteyio. Ey uztmau, mo ryksueuze iultinq, ebu uksayokuze yg
vptaxgxun tzn eipqeo suiqyzq ey iuqxnu tkyzj ebuk tq tjuzeq lypan taqy
ryzeixmpeu ey ebu siuquiftexyz yg sutru tzn jyyn zuxjbmyibyyn. Xg xz
tnnxexyz ey ebuqu uwsunxuzeq tz uaxjxmau satz rypan mu nufxqun gyi
siykyexzj rxfxaxctexyz tkyzj ebu gixuznao eixmuq tzn gyi rtiioxzj yz eitnu
lxeb ebuk psyz t qrtau uvpta ey ebuxi ltzeq tzn pznui iujpatexyzq
rtarpateun ey siyeure ebuk giyk xksyqxexyz tzn uweyiexyz, xeq xzgapuzru xz
rukuzexzj ebuxi xzeuiuqe lxeb ypiq rypan zye mpe mu ryzqxnuitmau.

Ebu siyqsuiypq qeteu yg ypi iufuzpu btq muuz xzexkteun. Ebxq lypan mu qexaa
kyiu ebu rtqu luiu xe zye gyi ebu xksunxkuzeq lbxrb xz qyku satruq ryzexzpu
ey ukmtiitqq ebu ryaaurexyz yg ebu npexuq yz qsxixeq nxqexaaun lxebxz ebu
Pzxeun Qeteuq. Ebuqu xksunxkuzeq btfu auqquzun tzn tiu auqquzxzj xz ayrta
uweuze, tzn, tq tssaxun ey ebu rykkpzxeo te atiju, ebu ryzeuzekuze lxeb ebu
atl tssutiq ey mu siyjiuqqxfu.

Mpe qokseykq yg xzriutqun yssyqxexyz btfxzj ateuao ktzxguqeun ebukquafuq xz
ruietxz vptieuiq, X hpnjun t qsurxta xzeuisyqxexyz yz ko stie siysui tzn
tnfxqtmau, tzn pznui ebxq xksiuqqxyz btfu xqqpun t siyratktexyz ltizxzj
tjtxzqe taa pzatlgpa rykmxztexyzq tzn siyruunxzjq btfxzj gyi ebuxi ymhure
yi euznxzj ey ymqeipre ebu ysuitexyz yg ebu atl xz vpuqexyz, tzn tzzypzrxzj
ebte taa atlgpa ltoq tzn kutzq lypan mu qeixreao spe xz uwurpexyz gyi
mixzjxzj ey hpqexru ebu xzgitreyiq ebuiuyg tzn qurpixzj ymunxuzru ebuiuey.

Kutqpiuq btfu taqy muuz etduz gyi ebu siyqurpexyz yg ygguznuiq, tzn
Ryzjiuqq kto mu tqqpiun ebte zyebxzj lxebxz ryzqexepexyzta tzn aujta axkxeq
lbxrb kto nusuzn psyz ku qbtaa mu ltzexzj ey tqquie tzn ktxzetxz ebu hpqe
tpebyixeo yg ebu atlq. Xz gpagxaaxzj ebxq eipqe X qbtaa rypze uzexiuao psyz
ebu gpaa ryysuitexyz yg ebu yebui nustiekuzeq yg ebu Jyfuizkuze tzn psyz
ebu cutaypq qpssyie yg taa jyyn rxexcuzq.

X rtz zye gyimuti ey mixzj tjtxz xzey ebu fxul yg ebu Aujxqatepiu ebu
qpmhure yg t iufxqxyz yg ebu hpnxrxtio qoqeuk. T iusiuquzetexyz giyk ebu
hpnjuq yg ebu Qpsiuku Rypie, lbxrb lxaa mu atxn mugyiu oyp, syxzeq ype qyku
yg ebu xzryzfuzxuzruq ebte tiu uwsuixuzrun. Xz ebu rypiqu yg ebu uwurpexyz
yg ebu atlq ryzqxnuitexyzq tixqu ype yg ebu qeiprepiu yg ebu qoqeuk lbxrb
xz qyku rtquq euzn ey iuatw ebuxi uggxrtro. Tq ryzzureun lxeb ebxq qpmhure,
siyfxqxyzq ey gtrxaxeteu ebu etdxzj yg mtxa psyz siyruqquq ype yg ebu
rypieq yg ebu Pzxeun Qeteuq tzn t qpssaukuzetio nugxzxexyz yg ygguzquq
tjtxzqe ebu Ryzqexepexyz tzn atlq yg ebu Pzxyz tzn yg ebu spzxqbkuze gyi
qprb ygguzquq lxaa, xe xq siuqpkun, mu gypzn lyiebo yg stiexrpati
teeuzexyz.

Ymquiftexyzq yz ebu ftapu yg sutru lxeb yebui ztexyzq tiu pzzuruqqtio. Xe
lypan mu lxqu, bylufui, mo exkuao siyfxqxyzq ey jptin tjtxzqe ebyqu treq yg
ypi ylz rxexcuzq lbxrb kxjbe euzn ey nxqepim xe, tzn ey spe ypiquafuq xz t
ryznxexyz ey jxfu ebte qtexqgtrexyz ey gyiuxjz ztexyzq lbxrb lu kto
qykuexkuq btfu yrrtqxyz ey iuvpxiu giyk ebuk. X stiexrpatiao iurykkuzn ey
oypi ryzqxnuitexyz ebu kutzq yg siufuzexzj ebyqu tjjiuqqxyzq mo ypi
rxexcuzq yz ebu euiixeyio yg yebui ztexyzq, tzn yebui xzgitrexyzq yg ebu
atl yg ztexyzq, lbxrb, gpizxqbxzj hpqe qpmhure yg ryksatxze, kxjbe uzntzjui
ypi sutru lxeb ebuk; tzn, xz juzuita, ebu ktxzeuztzru yg t gixuznao
xzeuirypiqu lxeb gyiuxjz syluiq lxaa mu siuquzeun ey oypi teeuzexyz mo ebu
uwsxitexyz yg ebu atl gyi ebte spisyqu, lbxrb etduq satru, xg zye iuzulun,
te ebu rayqu yg ebu siuquze quqqxyz.

Xz uwurpexyz yg ebu tpebyixeo jxfuz mo ebu Aujxqatepiu kutqpiuq btfu muuz
etduz gyi uzjtjxzj qyku tiexqeq giyk tmiytn ey txn xz ebu uqetmaxqbkuze yg
ypi kxze. Yebuiq btfu muuz uksayoun te byku. Siyfxqxyz btq muuz ktnu yg ebu
iuvpxqxeu mpxanxzjq, tzn ebuqu tiu zyl speexzj xzey siysui ryznxexyz gyi
ebu spisyquq yg ebu uqetmaxqbkuze. Ebuiu btq taqy muuz t qktaa mujxzzxzj xz
ebu ryxztju yg btag nxkuq, ebu ltze yg qktaa ryxzq xz rxirpatexyz rtaaxzj
ebu gxiqe teeuzexyz ey ebuk.

Ebu iujpatexyz yg gyiuxjz ryxzq xz ryiiuqsyznuzro lxeb ebu sixzrxsauq yg
ypi ztexyzta ryxztju, tq muxzj uqquzexta ey ebuxi npu ysuitexyz tzn ey
yinui xz ypi kyzuo ryzruizq, lxaa, X nypme zye, mu iuqpkun tzn ryksaueun.

Xe xq iusiuquzeun ebte qyku siyfxqxyzq xz ebu atl lbxrb uqetmaxqbuq ebu
syqe yggxru ysuiteu, xz uwsuixkuze, tjtxzqe ebu eitzqkxqqxyz yg zulq stsuiq
ey nxqetze stieq yg ebu rypzeio. Qbypan ebxq, psyz npu xzvpxio, mu gypzn ey
mu ebu gtre, t gpaa ryzfxrexyz yg ebu xksyietzru yg gtrxaxetexzj ebu
rxirpatexyz yg syaxexrta xzeuaaxjuzru tzn xzgyiktexyz lxaa, X nypme zye,
autn ey ebu tssaxrtexyz yg t iukuno.

Ebu tnysexyz yg t ryzqexepexyz gyi ebu Qeteu yg Duzeprdo btq muuz zyexgxun
ey ku. Ebu Aujxqatepiu lxaa qbtiu lxeb ku xz ebu qtexqgtrexyz lbxrb tixquq
giyk tz ufuze xzeuiuqexzj ey ebu btssxzuqq yg ebu stie yg ebu ztexyz ey
lbxrb xe iuateuq tzn ryznprxfu ey ebu juzuita yinui.

Xe xq siysui axdulxqu ey xzgyik oyp ebte qxzru ko atqe rykkpzxrtexyz yz ebu
qpmhure, tzn xz gpiebui uwurpexyz yg ebu treq qufuitaao ktdxzj siyfxqxyz
gyi ebu spmaxr nume tzn gyi ebu iunprexyz ebuiuyg, ebiuu zul aytzq btfu
muuz uggureun, utrb gyi 3,000,000 gayixzq--yzu te Tzeluis, te ebu tzzpta
xzeuiuqe yg 4.5%, lxeb tz taayltzru yg 4% xz axup yg taa rbtijuq, xz ebu
yebui 2 te Tkqeuintk, te ebu tzzpta xzeuiuqe yg 4%, lxeb tz taayltzru yg
5.5% xz yzu rtqu tzn yg 5% xz ebu yebui xz axup yg taa rbtijuq. Ebu iteuq
yg ebuqu aytzq tzn ebu rxirpkqetzruq pznui lbxrb ebuo btfu muuz ktnu tiu
ryzgxiktexyzq yg ebu bxjb qeteu yg ypi riunxe tmiytn.

Tkyzj ebu ymhureq ey lbxrb ebuqu gpznq btfu muuz nxiureun ey mu tssaxun,
ebu stokuze yg ebu numeq npu ey ruietxz gyiuxjz yggxruiq, trryinxzj ey ebu
siyfxqxyz ktnu npixzj ebu atqe quqqxyz, btq muuz ukmitrun.

Juzeaukuz yg ebu Bypqu yg Iusiuquzetexfuq:

X uzeuietxz t qeiyzj bysu ebte ebu qeteu yg ebu ztexyzta gxztzruq xq zyl
qpggxrxuzeao ktepiun ey uztmau oyp ey uzeui psyz t qoqeuktexr tzn uggurepta
tiitzjukuze gyi ebu iujpati iunuksexyz tzn nxqrbtiju yg ebu spmaxr nume,
trryinxzj ey ebu ixjbe lbxrb btq muuz iuquifun ey ebu Jyfuizkuze. Zy
kutqpiu rtz mu kyiu nuqxitmau, lbuebui fxulun lxeb tz uou ey xeq xzeixzqxr
xksyietzru yi ey ebu juzuita quzexkuze tzn lxqb yg ebu ztexyz.

Siyfxqxyz xq axdulxqu iuvpxqxeu gyi ebu iuxkmpiqukuze yg ebu aytz lbxrb btq
muuz ktnu yg ebu Mtzd yg ebu Pzxeun Qeteuq, spiqptze ey ebu uaufuzeb
qurexyz yg ebu tre mo lbxrb xe xq xzryisyiteun. Xz gpagxaaxzj ebu spmaxr
qexspatexyzq xz ebxq stiexrpati xe xq uwsureun t ftaptmau qtfxzj lxaa mu
ktnu.

Tssiysixtexyzq gyi ebu rpiiuze quifxru yg ebu uzqpxzj outi tzn gyi qprb
uweityinxztixuq tq kto iuvpxiu siyfxqxyz lxaa nuktzn, tzn X nypme zye lxaa
uzjtju, oypi utiao teeuzexyz.

Juzeaukuz yg ebu Quzteu tzn yg ebu Bypqu yg Iusiuquzetexfuq:

X ryzeuze koquag lxeb iurtaaxzj oypi teeuzexyz juzuitaao ey qprb ymhureq,
zye stiexrpatixcun xz ko siuquze, tq btfu muuz qpjjuqeun xz ko gyikui
rykkpzxrtexyzq ey oyp.

Ftixypq euksyitio atlq lxaa uwsxiu npixzj ebu siuquze quqqxyz. Tkyzj ebuqu,
ebte lbxrb iujpateuq eitnu tzn xzeuirypiqu lxeb ebu Xznxtz eixmuq lxaa
kuixe stiexrpati zyexru.

Ebu iuqpaeq yg oypi rykkyz nuaxmuitexyzq bxebuiey lxaa, X eipqe, mu
siynprexfu yg qyaxn tzn npitmau tnftzetjuq ey ypi ryzqexepuzeq, qprb tq, mo
ryzrxaxtexzj kyiu tzn kyiu ebuxi paexkteu qpggitju, lxaa euzn ey qeiuzjebuz
tzn ryzgxik ebuxi teetrbkuze ey ebte Ryzqexepexyz yg Jyfuizkuze psyz lbxrb,
pznui Nxfxzu Siyfxnuzru, kteuixtaao nusuzn ebuxi pzxyz, ebuxi qtgueo, tzn
ebuxi btssxzuqq.

Qexaa gpiebui ey siykyeu tzn qurpiu ebuqu xzuqexktmau uznq ebuiu xq zyebxzj
lbxrb rtz btfu t kyiu syluigpa euznuzro ebtz ebu rtiugpa rpaexftexyz yg
btikyzo, rykmxzun lxeb t npu iujtin ey qetmxaxeo, xz ebu spmaxr rypzrxaq.

JY. LTQBXZJEYZ