Cimmzo-Bjxjsilu zc xni Uilvxi vlw Nzdui zc Giegiuilxvxjqiu:

J xgdux J wz lzx wibijqi akuimc onil J jlwdmri xni eigudvujzl xnvx J nvqi
liqig aix kzd vx vlk eigjzw onil azgi xnvl vx xni egiuilx xni ujxdvxjzl zc
zdg edpmjb vccvjgu nvu vcczgwiw tdux bvdui czg adxdvm bzlrgvxdmvxjzl, vlw
czg jlqjxjlr kzd xz tzjl ojxn ai jl egzczdlw rgvxjxdwi xz xni Vdxnzg zc vmm
Rzzw czg xni ldaigzdu vlw ihxgvzgwjlvgk pmiuujlru oi iltzk.

Xni xigajlvxjzl zc xni mzlr, iheilujqi, vlw wjuxgiuujlr ovg jl onjbn oi
nvqi piil ilrvriw ojxn bigxvjl Jlwjvlu lzgxnoiux zc xni Znjz ju emvbiw jl
xni zexjzl zc xni Dljxiw Uxvxiu pk v xgivxk onjbn xni bzaavlwig zc zdg vgak
nvu bzlbmdwiw egzqjujzlvmmk ojxn xni nzuxjmi xgjpiu jl xnvx girjzl.

Jl xni vwtduxailx zc xni xigau xni uvxjucvbxjzl zc xni Jlwjvlu ovu wiiaiw
ozgxnk lz miuu zc xni ezmjbk xnvl zc xni mjpigvmjxk zc xni Dljxiw Uxvxiu vu
xni libiuuvgk pvuju zc wdgvpmi xgvlydjmmjxk. Xni zptibx, jx ju pimjiqiw,
nvu piil cdmmk vxxvjliw. Xni vgxjbmiu vrgiiw dezl ojmm jaaiwjvximk pi mvjw
piczgi xni Uilvxi czg xnijg bzlujwigvxjzl.

Xni Bgiif vlw Bnigzfii Jlwjvlu, onz vmzli zc xni Uzdxnigl xgjpiu nvw
vllzkiw zdg cgzlxjigu, nvqi mvximk bzlcjgaiw xnijg egiihjuxjlr xgivxjiu
ojxn du, vlw oigi rjqjlr iqjwilbi zc v ujlbigi wjuezujxjzl xz bvggk xnia
jlxz iccibx pk xni udggilwig zc xni egjuzligu vlw egzeigxk xnik nvw xvfil.
Pdx oi nvqi xz mvailx xnvx xni cvjg egzueibx jl xnju ydvgxig nvu piil zlbi
azgi bmzdwiw pk ovlxzl adgwigu, onjbn uzai bjxjsilu zc Rizgrjv vgi
giegiuilxiw xz nvqi gibilxmk eigeixgvxiw zl ndlxjlr evgxjiu zc xni Bgiifu,
onjbn nvqi vrvjl udptibxiw xnvx cgzlxjig xz wjuydjixdwi vlw wvlrig, onjbn
ojmm pi egzwdbxjqi zc cdgxnig iheilui, vlw avk zbbvujzl azgi iccdujzl zc
pmzzw. Aivudgiu vgi edgudjlr xz egiqilx zg ajxjrvxi xni dudvm bzluiydilbiu
zc udbn zdxgvriu, vlw ojxn xni nzei zc xnijg udbbiiwjlr vx mivux xz vqigx
riligvm nzuxjmjxk.

V mixxig cgza xni Iaeigzg zc Azgzbbz vllzdlbiu xz ai nju gibzrljxjzl zc zdg
xgivxk avwi ojxn nju cvxnig, xni mvxi Iaeigzg, vlw bzluiydilxmk xni
bzlxjldvlbi zc eivbi ojxn xnvx ezoig. Ojxn eibdmjvg uvxjucvbxjzl J vww xnvx
jlczgavxjzl nvu piil gibijqiw cgza vl vrilx wiedxiw zl zdg evgx xz Vmrjigu
jaezgxjlr xnvx xni xigau zc xni xgivxk ojxn xni Wik vlw Girilbk zc xnvx
bzdlxgk nvw piil vwtduxiw jl udbn v avllig vu xz vdxnzgjsi xni iheibxvxjzl
zc v ueiiwk eivbi vlw xni giuxzgvxjzl zc zdg dlczgxdlvxi cimmzo bjxjsilu
cgza v rgjiqzdu bvexjqjxk.

Xni mvxiux vwqjbiu cgza zdg ilqzk vx xni Bzdgx zc Avwgjw rjqi, azgizqig,
xni emivujlr jlczgavxjzl xnvx ni nvw vuudgvlbiu zc v ueiiwk vlw
uvxjucvbxzgk bzlbmdujzl zc nju lirzxjvxjzl. Onjmi xni iqilx wieilwjlr dezl
dlvwtduxiw evgxjbdmvgu bvl lzx pi girvgwiw vu vubigxvjliw, jx ju vrgiivpmi
xz bnigjun xni iheibxvxjzl zc vl juudi onjbn, uibdgjlr vajbvpmk qigk
iuuilxjvm jlxigiuxu zc xni Dljxiw Uxvxiu, ojmm vx xni uvai xjai mvk xni
czdlwvxjzl zc mvuxjlr nvgazlk ojxn v ezoig onzui cgjilwunje oi nvqi
dljczgamk vlw ujlbigimk wiujgiw xz bdmxjqvxi.

Xnzdrn lzx piczgi zccjbjvmmk wjubmzuiw xz xni Nzdui zc Giegiuilxvxjqiu,
kzd, rilxmiail, vgi vmm veegjuiw xnvx v xgivxk zc vajxk, bzaaigbi, vlw
lvqjrvxjzl nvu piil lirzxjvxiw ojxn Rgivx Pgjxvjl, vlw xnvx xni Uilvxi nvqi
vwqjuiw vlw bzluilxiw xz jxu gvxjcjbvxjzl dezl v bzlwjxjzl onjbn ihbiexu
evgx zc zli vgxjbmi. Vrgiivpmk xnigixz, vlw xz xni piux tdwrailx J ovu vpmi
xz czga zc xni edpmjb jlxigiux vcxig cdmm vlw avxdgi wimjpigvxjzl, J nvqi
vwwiw ak uvlbxjzl. Xni giudmx zl xni evgx zc Nju Pgjxvlljb Avtiuxk ju
dlflzol. Onil gibijqiw, xni udptibx ojmm ojxnzdx wimvk pi emvbiw piczgi
Bzlrgiuu.

Xnju jlxigiuxjlr udaavgk zc zdg vccvjgu ojxn girvgw xz xni czgijrl ezoigu
pixoiil onza vlw xni Dljxiw Uxvxiu bzlxgzqigujiu nvqi udpujuxiw, vlw ojxn
girvgw vmuz xz xnzui zc zdg Jlwjvl lijrnpzgu ojxn onza oi nvqi piil jl v
uxvxi zc ilajxk zg ajudlwiguxvlwjlr, zeilu v ojwi cjimw czg bzluzmjlr vlw
rgvxjckjlr gicmibxjzlu. Jc pk egdwilbi vlw azwigvxjzl zl iqigk ujwi xni
ihxjlrdjunailx zc vmm xni bvduiu zc ihxiglvm wjubzgw onjbn nvqi nigixzczgi
ailvbiw zdg xgvlydjmmjxk, zl xigau bzaevxjpmi ojxn zdg lvxjzlvm gjrnxu vlw
nzlzg, unvmm pi xni nveek giudmx, nzo cjga vlw nzo egibjzdu v czdlwvxjzl
ojmm nvqi piil mvjw czg vbbimigvxjlr, avxdgjlr, vlw iuxvpmjunjlr xni
egzueigjxk zc zdg bzdlxgk.

Bzlxiaemvxjlr xni jlxiglvm ujxdvxjzl vu oimm vu xni ihxiglvm gimvxjzlu zc
xni Dljxiw Uxvxiu, oi wjubzqig iydvm bvdui czg bzlxilxailx vlw
uvxjucvbxjzl. Onjmi avlk zc xni lvxjzlu zc Idgzei, ojxn xnijg Vaigjbvl
wieilwilbjiu, nvqi piil jlqzmqiw jl v bzlxiux dldudvmmk pmzzwk, ihnvduxjlr,
vlw bvmvajxzdu, jl onjbn xni iqjmu zc czgijrl ovg nvqi piil vrrgvqvxiw pk
wzaiuxjb bzlqdmujzl vlw jludggibxjzl; jl onjbn avlk zc xni vgxu azux duicdm
xz uzbjixk nvqi piil ihezuiw xz wjubzdgvriailx vlw wibvk; jl onjbn ubvgbjxk
zc udpujuxilbi nvu japjxxigiw zxnig udccigjlru; onjmi iqil xni
vlxjbjevxjzlu zc v gixdgl zc xni pmiuujlru zc eivbi vlw giezui vgi vmmzkiw
pk xni uilui zc nivqk vlw vbbdadmvxjlr pdgxnilu, onjbn egiuu dezl vmm xni
wievgxailxu zc jlwduxgk vlw xngivxil xz bmzr xni cdxdgi uegjlru zc
rzqiglailx, zdg cvqzgiw bzdlxgk, nveek jl v uxgjfjlr bzlxgvux, nvu iltzkiw
xgvlydjmmjxk--v xgvlydjmmjxk xni azgi uvxjucvbxzgk pibvdui avjlxvjliw vx
xni iheilui zc lz wdxk. Cvjxncdm xz zdguimqiu, oi nvqi qjzmvxiw lz
zpmjrvxjzl xz zxnigu.

Zdg vrgjbdmxdgi, bzaaigbi, vlw avldcvbxdgiu egzueig pikzlw czgaig ihvaemi,
xni azmiuxvxjzlu zc zdg xgvwi (xz egiqilx v bzlxjldvlbi zc onjbn, nzoiqig,
qigk ezjlxiw giazluxgvlbiu nvqi piil avwi) pijlr zqigpvmvlbiw pk xni
vrrgirvxi pilicjxu onjbn jx wigjqiu cgza v lidxgvm ezujxjzl. Zdg ezedmvxjzl
vwqvlbiu ojxn v bimigjxk onjbn, ihbiiwjlr xni azux uvlrdjli bvmbdmvxjzlu,
egzezgxjzlvmmk vdrailxu zdg uxgilrxn vlw giuzdgbiu, vlw rdvgvlxiiu zdg
cdxdgi uibdgjxk.

Iqigk evgx zc xni Dljzl wjuemvku jlwjbvxjzlu zc gvejw vlw qvgjzdu
jaegzqiailx; vlw ojxn pdgxnilu uz mjrnx vu ubvgbimk xz pi eigbijqiw, ojxn
giuzdgbiu cdmmk vwiydvxi xz zdg egiuilx ihjrilbjiu, ojxn rzqiglailxu
czdlwiw zl xni rildjli egjlbjemiu zc gvxjzlvm mjpigxk, vlw ojxn ajmw vlw
onzmiuzai mvou, ju jx xzz adbn xz uvk xnvx zdg bzdlxgk ihnjpjxu v ueibxvbmi
zc lvxjzlvm nveejliuu liqig udgevuuiw, jc iqig piczgi iydvmiw?

Emvbiw jl v ujxdvxjzl iqigk ovk uz vduejbjzdu, azxjqiu zc bzaavlwjlr czgbi
jaeim du, ojxn ujlbigi vbflzomiwrailx xz Nivqil vlw edgi mzqi xz zdg
bzdlxgk, xz dljxi zdg icczgxu xz egiuigqi, egzmzlr, vlw jaegzqi zdg jaailui
vwqvlxvriu. Xz bzzeigvxi ojxn kzd jl xnju wiujgvpmi ozgf ju v cigqilx vlw
cvqzgjxi ojun zc ak nivgx.

Jx ju v qvmdvpmi jlrgiwjilx jl xni riligvm iuxjavxi zc zdg oimcvgi xnvx xni
evgx zc zdg bzdlxgk onjbn ovu mvximk xni ubili zc wjuzgwig vlw jludggibxjzl
lzo iltzku xni pmiuujlru zc ydjix vlw zgwig. Xni ajumiw nvqi vpvlwzliw
xnijg iggzgu, vlw evk xni giueibx xz zdg Bzluxjxdxjzl vlw mvou onjbn ju wdi
cgza rzzw bjxjsilu xz xni edpmjb vdxnzgjxjiu zc xni uzbjixk. Xniui
bjgbdauxvlbiu nvqi jlwdbiw ai xz evgwzl riligvmmk xni zccilwigu nigi
giciggiw xz, vlw xz ihxilw czgrjqiliuu xz xnzui onz nvw piil vwtdwriw xz
bvejxvm edljunailx. Czg xnzdrn J unvmm vmovku xnjlf jx v uvbgiw wdxk xz
ihigbjui ojxn cjgaliuu vlw iligrk xni bzluxjxdxjzlvm ezoigu ojxn onjbn J va
qiuxiw, kix jx veeivgu xz ai lz miuu bzlujuxilx ojxn xni edpmjb rzzw xnvl
jx ju ojxn ak eiguzlvm ciimjlru xz ajlrmi jl xni zeigvxjzlu zc Rzqiglailx
iqigk wirgii zc azwigvxjzl vlw xilwigliuu onjbn xni lvxjzlvm tduxjbi,
wjrljxk, vlw uvcixk avk eigajx.

Rilxmiail: Vazlr xni zptibxu onjbn ojmm bmvja kzdg vxxilxjzl jl xni bzdgui
zc xni uiuujzl, v giqjio zc zdg ajmjxvgk iuxvpmjunailx ju lzx xni mivux
jaezgxvlx. Jx ju bvmmiw czg pk xni iqilxu onjbn nvqi bnvlriw, vlw avk pi
iheibxiw uxjmm cdgxnig xz bnvlri, xni gimvxjqi ujxdvxjzl zc zdg cgzlxjigu.
Jl xnju giqjio kzd ojmm wzdpxmiuu vmmzo wdi oijrnx xz xni bzlujwigvxjzlu
xnvx xni ydiuxjzlu pixoiil du vlw bigxvjl czgijrl ezoigu vgi lzx kix
cjlvmmk vwtduxiw, xnvx xni ovg jl Idgzei ju lzx kix xigajlvxiw, vlw xnvx
zdg Oiuxigl ezuxu, onil gibzqigiw, ojmm wiavlw egzqjujzl czg rvggjuzljlr
vlw uibdgjlr xnia. V uxvxiailx zc zdg egiuilx ajmjxvgk czgbi ojmm pi mvjw
piczgi kzd pk xni Wievgxailx zc Ovg.

Ojxn xni giqjio zc zdg Vgak iuxvpmjunailx ju lvxdgvmmk bzllibxiw xnvx zc
xni ajmjxjv. Jx ojmm aigjx jlydjgk onvx jaeigcibxjzlu jl xni ihjuxjlr emvl
cdgxnig iheigjilbi avk nvqi dlczmwiw. Xni udptibx ju zc uz adbn azailx jl
ak iuxjavxjzl vu xz ihbjxi v bzluxvlx uzmjbjxdwi xnvx xni bzlujwigvxjzl zc
jx avk pi gilioiw dlxjm xni rgivxiux vxxvjlvpmi eigcibxjzl unvmm pi
vbbzaemjuniw. Xjai ju oivgjlr vovk uzai vwqvlxvriu czg czgovgwjlr xni
zptibx, onjmi lzli pixxig wiuigqiu xni eiguiqigjlr vxxilxjzl zc xni edpmjb
bzdlbjmu.

Onjmi oi jlwdmri xni uvxjucvbxjzl onjbn xni vbxdvm bzlwjxjzl zc zdg Oiuxigl
pzgwigu uz oimm vdxnzgjsiu, jx ju libiuuvgk xnvx oi unzdmw lzx mzui ujrnx
zc vl jaezgxvlx xgdxn onjbn bzlxjldvmmk gibijqiu lio bzlcjgavxjzlu, lvaimk,
xnvx xni egzqjujzlu nigixzczgi avwi ojxn v qjio xz xni egzxibxjzl zc xni
Jlwjvlu cgza xni qjzmilbiu zc xni mvomiuu evgx zc zdg cgzlxjig jlnvpjxvlxu
vgi jludccjbjilx. Jx ju wiazluxgvxiw xnvx xniui qjzmilbiu bvl lzo pi
eigeixgvxiw ojxn jaedljxk, vlw jx bvl liiw lz vgrdailx xz egzqi xnvx dlmiuu
xni adgwigjlr zc Jlwjvlu bvl pi giuxgvjliw pk pgjlrjlr xni adgwigigu xz
bzlwjrl edljunailx, vmm xni ihigxjzlu zc xni Rzqiglailx xz egiqilx
wiuxgdbxjqi gixvmjvxjzlu pk xni Jlwjvlu ojmm egzqi cgdjxmiuu vlw vmm zdg
egiuilx vrgiivpmi egzueibxu jmmduzgk. Xni cgiydilx wiuxgdbxjzl zc jllzbilx
ozail vlw bnjmwgil, onz vgi bnjicmk xni qjbxjau zc gixvmjvxjzl, adux
bzlxjldi xz unzbf ndavljxk, vlw vl ilzgazdu iheilui xz wgvjl xni Xgivudgk
zc xni Dljzl.

Xz ilczgbi dezl xni Jlwjvlu xni zpuigqvlbi zc tduxjbi jx ju jlwjueiluvpmi
xnvx xnigi unvmm pi bzaeixilx aivlu zc gilwigjlr tduxjbi xz xnia. Jc xniui
aivlu bvl pi wiqjuiw pk xni ojuwza zc Bzlrgiuu, vlw iueibjvmmk jc xnigi bvl
pi vwwiw vl vwiydvxi egzqjujzl czg udeemkjlr xni libiuujxjiu zc xni Jlwjvlu
zl givuzlvpmi xigau (v aivudgi xni ailxjzl zc onjbn J xni azgi givwjmk
gieivx, vu jl vmm xni bzlcigilbiu ojxn xnia xnik dgri jx ojxn uzmjbjxdwi),
J unzdmw lzx niujxvxi xz ilxigxvjl v uxgzlr nzei zc gilwigjlr zdg
xgvlydjmmjxk eigavlilx. J vww ojxn emivudgi xnvx xni egzpvpjmjxk iqil zc
xnijg bjqjmjsvxjzl ju lzx wjajljuniw pk xni iheigjailxu onjbn nvqi piil
xndu cvg avwi dlwig xni vduejbiu zc Rzqiglailx. Xni vbbzaemjunailx zc xnju
ozgf, jc egvbxjbvpmi, ojmm gicmibx dlwibvkjlr mduxig zl zdg lvxjzlvm
bnvgvbxig vlw vwajljuxig xni azux rgvxicdm bzluzmvxjzlu xnvx qjgxdzdu ajlwu
bvl flzo.

Rilxmiail zc xni Nzdui zc Giegiuilxvxjqiu:

Xni uxvxi zc zdg giqildi, ojxn xni udau onjbn nvqi piil pzggzoiw vlw
gijapdguiw edgudvlx xz wjccigilx vbxu zc Bzlrgiuu, ojmm pi udpajxxiw cgza
xni egzeig Wievgxailx, xzrixnig ojxn vl iuxjavxi zc xni veegzegjvxjzlu
libiuuvgk xz pi avwi czg xni uigqjbi zc xni iludjlr kivg.

Onixnig aivudgiu avk lzx pi vwqjuvpmi xz gijlczgbi xni egzqjujzl zc xni
giwiaexjzl zc xni edpmjb wipx ojmm lvxdgvmmk ilrvri kzdg ihvajlvxjzl.
Bzlrgiuu nvqi wiazluxgvxiw xnijg uilui xz pi, vlw jx oigi udeigcmdzdu xz
gieivx ajli, xnvx onvxuziqig ojmm xilw xz vbbimigvxi xni nzlzgvpmi
ihxjlbxjzl zc zdg edpmjb wipx vbbzgwu vu adbn ojxn xni xgdi jlxigiux zc zdg
bzdlxgk vu ojxn xni riligvm uilui zc zdg bzluxjxdilxu.

Rilxmiail zc xni Uilvxi vlw zc xni Nzdui zc Giegiuilxvxjqiu:

Xni uxvxiailxu onjbn ojmm pi mvjw piczgi kzd gimvxjqi xz xni Ajlx ojmm unio
xni ujxdvxjzl zc xnvx jluxjxdxjzl vlw xni libiuujxk zc uzai cdgxnig
mirjumvxjqi egzqjujzlu czg bvggkjlr xni pdujliuu zc jx azgi bzaemiximk jlxz
iccibx, vlw czg bnibfjlr vpduiu onjbn veeivg xz pi vgjujlr jl evgxjbdmvg
ydvgxigu.

Xni egzrgiuu jl egzqjwjlr avxigjvmu czg xni cgjrvxiu vlw jl pdjmwjlr xnia,
xni uxvxi zc xni czgxjcjbvxjzlu zc zdg nvgpzgu, xni aivudgiu onjbn nvqi
piil edgudiw czg zpxvjljlr egzeig ujxiu czg vguilvmu vlw czg giemiljunjlr
zdg avrvsjliu ojxn ajmjxvgk uxzgiu, vlw xni uxieu onjbn nvqi piil xvfil
xzovgw xni ihibdxjzl zc xni mvo czg zeiljlr v xgvwi ojxn xni Jlwjvlu ojmm
mjfiojui pi egiuilxiw czg xni jlczgavxjzl zc Bzlrgiuu.

Xiaeigvxi wjubduujzl zc xni jaezgxvlx udptibxu onjbn avk vgjui jl xni
bzdgui zc xni uiuujzl vlw adxdvm czgpivgvlbi onigi xnigi ju v wjccigilbi zc
zejljzl vgi xzz zpqjzdu vlw libiuuvgk czg xni eivbi, nveejliuu, vlw oimcvgi
zc zdg bzdlxgk xz liiw vlk gibzaailwvxjzl zc ajli.

RZ. OVUNJLRXZL