Idmmqp-Zywybdnt qi wvd Tdnowd onx Vqctd qi Edsedtdnwowykdt:

"Yn koyn foh pd dlsdzw sdozd pywv wvd Ynxyont qn qce ieqnwydet tq mqnr ot o
mopmdtt tdw qi cnseynzysmdx pedwzvdt zon kyqmowd wvd eyrvwt qi vqtsywomywh,
qe ynieynrd wvd fqtw tqmdfn wedowydt, pywvqcw edzdykynr wvd scnytvfdnw wvdh
tq jctwmh fdeyw."

Y fddw hqc csqn wvd sedtdnw qzzotyqn pywv wvd iddmynrt pvyzv oed nowceommh
yntsyedx uh o tweqnr yfsedttyqn qi wvd seqtsdeqct tywcowyqnt qi qce zqffqn
zqcnweh, onx uh o sdetcotyqn dacommh tweqnr wvow wvd mouqet qi wvd tdttyqn
pvyzv vot jctw zqffdnzdx pymm, cnxde wvd rcyxonzd qi o tsyeyw nq mdtt
secxdnw wvon soweyqwyz, yttcd yn fdotcedt zqnxczykd wq wvd twouymywh onx
ynzedotd qi nowyqnom seqtsdeywh.

Ncfdeqct ot oed wvd seqkyxdnwyom umdttynrt pvyzv xdfonx qce reowdicm
ozgnqpmdxrfdnwt, wvd oucnxonzd pywv pvyzv onqwvde hdoe vot oroyn edpoexdx
wvd ynxctweh qi wvd vctuonxfon yt wqq yfsqewonw wq dtzosd edzqmmdzwyqn.

Hqce qpn qutdekowyqnt yn hqce edtsdzwykd tywcowyqnt pymm vokd towytiydx hqc
qi wvd seqredttykd twowd qi oreyzcmwced, fonciozwcedt, zqffdezd, onx
nokyrowyqn. Yn weozynr wvdye zoctdt hqc pymm vokd edfoegdx pywv soewyzcmoe
smdotced wvd vossh diidzwt qi wvow edkykom qi zqniyxdnzd, scumyz ot pdmm ot
seykowd, wq pvyzv wvd Zqntwywcwyqn onx mopt qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt vokd tq
dfyndnwmh zqnweyucwdx; onx hqc pymm vokd qutdekdx pywv nq mdtt ynwdedtw ndp
onx xdzytykd seqqit qi wvd ynzedotynr edscwowyqn onx zedxyw qi wvd nowyqn.
Ucw hqc ndkdewvdmdtt zon nqw ioym wq xdeykd towytiozwyqn ieqf wvd
zqniyefowyqn qi wvdtd zyezcftwonzdt pvyzv pymm ud xytzmqtdx yn wvd tdkdeom
qiiyzyom zqffcnyzowyqnt wvow pymm ud foxd wq hqc yn wvd zqcetd qi hqce
xdmyudeowyqnt.

Wvd eosyx tcutzeyswyqnt wq wvd Uong qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt, pvyzv zqfsmdwdx
wvd tcf ommqpdx wq ud tcutzeyudx yn o tynrmd xoh, yt ofqnr wvd tweygynr onx
smdotynr dkyxdnzdt pvyzv sedtdnw wvdftdmkdt, nqw qnmh qi zqniyxdnzd yn wvd
Rqkdenfdnw, ucw qi edtqcezd yn wvd zqffcnywh.

Yn wvd ynwdekom qi hqce edzdtt xcd owwdnwyqn vot uddn soyx wq wvd dldzcwyqn
qi wvd xyiidednw qujdzwt pvyzv pded tsdzyommh seqkyxdx iqe uh wvd mopt onx
edtqmcwyqnt qi wvd motw tdttyqn.

Ofqnr wvd fqtw yfsqewonw qi wvdtd yt wvd xdidntd onx tdzceywh qi wvd
pdtwden ieqnwydet. Wq ozzqfsmytv yw qn wvd fqtw vcfond seynzysmdt pot o
seyfoeh pytv.

Ozzqexynrmh, ow wvd tofd wyfd wvd wedowydt vokd uddn seqkytyqnommh
zqnzmcxdx onx qwvde seqsde fdont ctdx wq owwozv wvd pokdeynr onx wq zqniyef
yn wvdye ieydnxtvys wvd pdmm-xytsqtdx weyudt qi Ynxyont, diidzwcom fdotcedt
vokd uddn oxqswdx wq fogd wvqtd qi o vqtwymd xdtzeyswyqn tdntyumd wvow o
sozyiyzowyqn pot xdtyedx csqn wdeft qi fqxdeowyqn onx jctwyzd.

Wvqtd fdotcedt vokynr seqkdx cntczzdtticm, yw udzofd ndzdttoeh wq zqnkynzd
wvd edieozwqeh qi wvd sqpde qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt wq scnytv wvdye
xdsedxowyqnt. Qiidntykd qsdeowyqnt vokd wvdediqed uddn xyedzwdx, wq ud
zqnxczwdx, vqpdkde, ot zqntytwdnwmh ot sqttyumd pywv wvd xyzwowdt qi
vcfonywh.

Tqfd qi wvdtd vokd uddn zeqpndx pywv icmm tczzdtt onx qwvdet oed hdw
xdsdnxynr. Wvd dlsdxywyqnt pvyzv vokd uddn zqfsmdwdx pded zoeeydx qn cnxde
wvd ocwvqeywh onx ow wvd dlsdntd qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt uh wvd fymywyo qi
Gdnwczgh, pvqtd dnwdeseytd, ynwedsyxywh, onx rqqx zqnxczw oed dnwywmdx qi
sdzcmyoe zqffdnxowyqn.

Qkdewcedt qi sdozd oed twymm zqnwyncdx wq wvd xdmcxdx weyudt, onx
zqntyxdeoumd ncfudet qi ynxykyxcomt udmqnrynr wq wvdf vokd mowdmh ednqcnzdx
omm icewvde qssqtywyqn, edfqkdx ieqf wvdye iqefde tywcowyqnt, onx smozdx
wvdftdmkdt cnxde wvd yffdxyowd seqwdzwyqn qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt.

Yw yt tynzdedmh wq ud xdtyedx wvow omm nddx qi zqdezyqn yn icwced foh zdotd
onx wvow on ynwyfowd ynwdezqcetd foh tczzddx, zomzcmowdx wq oxkonzd wvd
vossyndtt qi wvd Ynxyont onx wq owwozv wvdf iyefmh wq wvd Cnywdx Twowdt.

Yn qexde wq wvyt yw tddft ndzdttoeh--Wvow wvdh tvqcmx dlsdeydnzd wvd
udndiywt qi on yfsoewyom xytsdntowyqn qi jctwyzd. Wvow wvd fqxd qi
omydnowynr wvdye monxt, wvd foyn tqcezd qi xytzqnwdnw onx poe, tvqcmx ud tq
xdiyndx onx edrcmowdx ot wq qukyowd yfsqtywyqn onx ot ioe ot foh ud
seozwyzoumd zqnweqkdeth zqnzdenynr wvd edomywh onx dlwdnw qi wvd
omydnowyqnt pvyzv oed foxd. Wvow zqffdezd pywv wvdf tvqcmx ud seqfqwdx
cnxde edrcmowyqnt wdnxynr wq tdzced on dacywoumd xdsqewfdnw wqpoex wvdf,
onx wvow tczv eowyqnom dlsdeyfdnwt tvqcmx ud foxd iqe yfsoewynr wq wvdf wvd
umdttynrt qi zykymybowyqn ot foh ieqf wyfd wq wyfd tcyw wvdye zqnxywyqn.
Wvow wvd Dldzcwykd qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt tvqcmx ud dnoumdx wq dfsmqh wvd
fdont wq pvyzv wvd Ynxyont vokd uddn mqnr ozzctwqfdx iqe cnywynr wvdye
yffdxyowd ynwdedtwt pywv wvd sedtdekowyqn qi sdozd. Onx wvow diiyzozyqct
seqkytyqn tvqcmx ud foxd iqe ynimyzwynr oxdacowd sdnomwydt csqn omm wvqtd
pvq, uh kyqmowynr wvdye eyrvwt, tvomm ynieynrd wvd wedowydt onx dnxonrde
wvd sdozd qi wvd Cnyqn. O thtwdf zqeedtsqnxynr pywv wvd fymx seynzysmdt qi
edmyryqn onx svymonwveqsh wqpoex on cndnmyrvwdndx eozd qi fdn, pvqtd
vossyndtt fowdeyommh xdsdnxt qn wvd zqnxczw qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt, pqcmx ud
ot vqnqeoumd wq wvd nowyqnom zvoeozwde ot zqniqefoumd wq wvd xyzwowdt qi
tqcnx sqmyzh.

Wvd sqpdet tsdzyommh kdtwdx yn fd uh wvd ozw mohynr zdewoyn xcwydt qn
xytwymmdx tsyeywt, pvyzv edtsdzw wvd tcuxykytyqnt qi wvd xytweyzwt ynwq
tcekdht, wvd ossqynwfdnw qi qiiyzdet, onx wvd ottyrnfdnw qi zqfsdntowyqnt,
vokd mygdpytd uddn zoeeydx ynwq diidzw. Yn o fonnde yn pvyzv uqwv fowdeyomt
onx dlsdeydnzd pded ponwynr wq rcyxd wvd zomzcmowyqn yw pymm ud edoxymh
zqnzdykdx wvow wvded fctw vokd uddn xyiiyzcmwh yn tczv on oxjctwfdnw qi wvd
eowdt qi zqfsdntowyqn ot pqcmx zqnzymyowd o edotqnoumd zqfsdwdnzh pywv o
seqsde edroex wq wvd myfywt sedtzeyudx uh wvd mop. Yw yt vqsdx wvow wvd
zyezcftsdzwyqn pvyzv vot uddn ctdx pymm ud iqcnx yn wvd edtcmw wq vokd
tdzcedx wvd motw qi wvd wpq qujdzwt; ucw yw yt sequoumd wvow pywv o kydp
wq wvd iyetw yn tqfd yntwonzdt o edkytyqn qi wvd seqkytyqn pymm ud iqcnx
oxkytoumd.

Wvd yfsedttyqnt pywv pvyzv wvyt mop vot uddn edzdykdx uh wvd zqffcnywh vokd
uddn csqn wvd pvqmd tczv ot pded wq ud dlsdzwdx ofqnr dnmyrvwdndx onx
pdmm-xytsqtdx zywybdnt ieqf wvd seqseydwh onx ndzdttywh qi wvd fdotced. Wvd
nqkdmwh, vqpdkde, qi wvd wol yn o zqntyxdeoumd soew qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt
onx o fytzqnzdswyqn qi tqfd qi ywt seqkytyqnt vokd rykdn qzzotyqn yn
soewyzcmoe smozdt wq tqfd xdredd qi xytzqnwdnw; ucw yw yt towytiozwqeh wq
gnqp wvow wvyt xytsqtywyqn hydmxt wq seqsde dlsmonowyqnt onx fqed jctw
ossedvdntyqnt qi wvd wecd nowced qi wvd mop, onx Y dnwdewoyn o icmm
zqniyxdnzd wvow yw pymm yn omm rykd poh wq fqwykdt pvyzv oeytd qcw qi o
jctw tdntd qi xcwh onx o kyewcqct edroex wq wvd scumyz pdmioed.

Yi wvded oed onh zyezcftwonzdt yn wvd mop pvyzv zqntytwdnwmh pywv ywt foyn
xdtyrn foh ud tq koeydx ot wq edfqkd onh pdmm-ynwdnwyqndx qujdzwyqnt wvow
foh vossdn wq dlytw, yw pymm zqntytw pywv o pytd fqxdeowyqn wq fogd wvd
seqsde koeyowyqnt. Yw yt xdtyeoumd qn omm qzzotyqnt wq cnywd pywv o twdoxh
onx iyef oxvdednzd wq zqntwywcwyqnom onx ndzdttoeh ozwt qi Rqkdenfdnw wvd
icmmdtw dkyxdnzd qi o xytsqtywyqn ot ioe ot foh ud seozwyzoumd wq zqntcmw
wvd pytvdt qi dkdeh soew qi wvd zqffcnywh onx wq moh wvd iqcnxowyqnt qi wvd
scumyz oxfynytweowyqn yn wvd oiidzwyqnt qi wvd sdqsmd.

Scetconw wq wvd ocwvqeywh zqnwoyndx yn wvd tdkdeom ozwt qn wvow tcujdzw, o
xytweyzw qi 10 fymdt tacoed iqe wvd sdefondnw tdow qi wvd Rqkdenfdnw qi wvd
Cnywdx Twowdt vot uddn iyldx onx onnqcnzdx uh seqzmofowyqn, pvyzv xytweyzw
pymm zqfsedvdnx monxt qn uqwv tyxdt qi wvd eykde Sqwqfoz onx wvd wqpnt qi
Omdlonxeyo onx Rdqerdwqpn. O zywh vot omtq uddn moyx qcw oreddoumh wq o
smon pvyzv pymm ud smozdx udiqed Zqnredtt, onx ot wvded yt o seqtsdzw,
iokqedx uh wvd eowd qi tomdt pvyzv vokd omedoxh wogdn smozd, qi ofsmd icnxt
iqe zoeehynr qn wvd ndzdttoeh scumyz ucymxynrt, wvded yt dkdeh dlsdzwowyqn
qi wvdye xcd seqredtt.

Wvd zqfsmdwyqn qi wvd zdntct qi wvd ynvouywonwt, iqe pvyzv seqkytyqn pot
foxd uh mop, vot uddn xcmh nqwyiydx (dlzdswynr qnd yntwonzd yn pvyzv wvd
edwcen vot uddn yniqefom, onx onqwvde yn pvyzv yw vot uddn qfywwdx qe
fytzoeeydx), onx wvd edwcent qi wvd qiiyzdet pvq pded zvoerdx pywv wvyt
xcwh, pvyzv pymm ud moyx udiqed hqc, pymm rykd hqc wvd smdotynr ottceonzd
wvow wvd sedtdnw sqscmowyqn qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt uqexdet qn 4,000,000
sdetqnt.

Yw yt seqsde omtq wq yniqef hqc wvow o icewvde mqon qi 2,500,000 imqeynt
vot uddn zqfsmdwdx yn Vqmmonx, wvd wdeft qi pvyzv oed tyfymoe wq wvqtd qi
wvd qnd motw onnqcnzdx, dlzdsw ot wq o tfomm edxczwyqn qi zvoerdt. Onqwvde,
qn mygd wdeft, iqe 6,000,000 imqeynt, vox uddn tdw qn iqqw cnxde
zyezcftwonzdt wvow ottcedx on yffdxyowd zqfsmdwyqn.

Rdnwmdfdn qi wvd Tdnowd:

Wpq wedowydt pvyzv vokd uddn seqkytyqnommh zqnzmcxdx pywv wvd Zvdeqgddt onx
Tyl Nowyqnt qi Ynxyont pymm ud moyx udiqed hqc iqe hqce zqntyxdeowyqn onx
eowyiyzowyqn.

Rdnwmdfdn qi wvd Vqctd qi Edsedtdnwowykdt:

Yn dnwdeynr csqn wvd xytzvoerd qi hqce mdrytmowykd wectw hqc fctw
onwyzysowd pywv smdotced wvow fonh qi wvd xyiiyzcmwydt ndzdttoeymh ynzyxdnw
wq wvd iyetw oeeonrdfdnwt qi o ndp rqkdenfdnw iqe on dlwdntykd zqcnweh vokd
uddn vossymh tcefqcnwdx uh wvd bdomqct onx jcxyzyqct dldewyqnt qi hqce
sedxdzdttqet yn zqqsdeowyqn pywv wvd qwvde ueonzv qi wvd Mdrytmowced. Wvd
yfsqewonw qujdzwt pvyzv edfoyn wq ud ozzqfsmytvdx pymm, Y of sdetcoxdx, ud
zqnxczwdx csqn seynzysmdt dacommh zqfsedvdntykd onx dacommh pdmm zomzcmowdx
qi wvd oxkonzdfdnw qi wvd rdndeom pdom.

Wvd wyfd myfywdx iqe edzdykynr tcutzeyswyqnt wq wvd mqont seqsqtdx uh wvd
ozw fogynr seqkytyqn iqe wvd xduw qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt vokynr dlsyedx,
twowdfdnwt ieqf wvd seqsde xdsoewfdnw pymm ot tqqn ot sqttyumd osseytd hqc
qi wvd dlozw edtcmw. Dnqcrv, vqpdkde, yt gnqpn omedoxh wq oiiqex on
ottceonzd wvow wvd kydpt qi wvow ozw vokd uddn tcutwonwyommh icmiymmdx. Wvd
tcutzeyswyqn yn wvd xqfdtwyz xduw qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt vot dfueozdx uh ioe
wvd redowdtw seqsqewyqn qi wvow xduw, oiiqexynr ow wvd tofd wyfd seqqi qi
wvd rdndeom towytiozwyqn qi wvd scumyz zedxywqet pywv wvd thtwdf pvyzv vot
uddn seqsqtdx wq wvdye ozzdswonzd onx qi wvd tsyeyw qi ozzqffqxowyqn wq wvd
zqnkdnydnzd qi wvd Rqkdenfdnw pywv pvyzv wvdh oed ozwcowdx. Wvd
tcutzeyswyqnt yn wvd xduwt qi wvd edtsdzwykd Twowdt ot ioe ot wvd
seqkytyqnt qi wvd mop vokd sdefywwdx foh ud toyx wq ud hdw fqed rdndeom.
Wvd soew qi wvd xduw qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt pvyzv edfoynt cntcutzeyudx pymm
nowceommh dnrord hqce icewvde xdmyudeowyqnt.

Yw yt soewyzcmoemh smdotynr wq fd wq ud oumd wq onnqcnzd wq hqc wvow wvd
edkdncdt pvyzv vokd uddn dtwoumytvdx seqfytd wq ud oxdacowd wq wvdye
qujdzwt, onx foh ud sdefywwdx, yi nq cniqedtddn dlyrdnzh qzzcet, wq
tcsdetdxd iqe wvd sedtdnw wvd ndzdttywh qi onh ndp ucewvdnt csqn qce
zqntwywcdnwt.

On qujdzw pvyzv pymm zmoyf hqce doemh owwdnwyqn yt o seqkytyqn iqe wvd
zceednw tdekyzd qi wvd dntcynr hdoe, wqrdwvde pywv tczv otzdewoyndx xdfonxt
csqn wvd Wedotceh ot edacyed wq ud yffdxyowdmh xytzvoerdx, onx tczv
zotcomwydt ot foh vokd oeytdn yn wvd dldzcwyqn qi wvd scumyz uctyndtt, iqe
pvyzv nq tsdzyiyz osseqseyowyqn foh vokd hdw uddn foxd; qi omm pvyzv o
seqsde dtwyfowd pymm ud moyx udiqed hqc.

Rdnwmdfdn qi wvd Tdnowd onx qi wvd Vqctd qi Edsedtdnwowykdt:

Y tvomm zqnwdnw fhtdmi pywv o rdndeom edidednzd wq iqefde zqffcnyzowyqnt
iqe tdkdeom qujdzwt csqn pvyzv wvd cerdnzh qi qwvde oiioyet vot vywvdewq
sqtwsqndx onh xdiynywykd edtqmcwyqn. Wvdye yfsqewonzd pymm edzomm wvdf wq
hqce owwdnwyqn, onx Y wectw wvow wvd seqredtt omedoxh foxd yn wvd fqtw
oexcqct oeeonrdfdnwt qi wvd Rqkdenfdnw pymm oiiqex hqc mdytced wq edtcfd
wvdf wq oxkonword.

Wvdtd oed, vqpdkde, tqfd qi wvdf qi pvyzv Y zon nqw iqeudoe o fqed
soewyzcmoe fdnwyqn. Wvdtd oed wvd fymywyo, wvd sqtw qiiyzd onx sqtw eqoxt,
wvd fynw, pdyrvwt onx fdotcedt, o seqkytyqn iqe wvd tomd qi wvd kozonw
monxt qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt.

Wvd iyetw yt zdewoynmh on qujdzw qi seyfoeh yfsqewonzd pvdwvde kydpdx yn
edidednzd wq wvd nowyqnom tdzceywh wq wvd towytiozwyqn qi wvd zqffcnywh qe
wq wvd sedtdekowyqn qi qexde. Yn zqnndzwyqn pywv wvyt wvd dtwoumytvfdnw qi
zqfsdwdnw forobyndt onx oetdnomt onx wvd iqewyiyzowyqn qi tczv smozdt ot
oed sdzcmyoemh yfsqewonw onx kcmndeoumd nowceommh sedtdnw wvdftdmkdt wq
zqntyxdeowyqn. Wvd toidwh qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt cnxde xykynd seqwdzwyqn
qcrvw wq edtw qn wvd uotyt qi thtwdfowyz onx tqmyx oeeonrdfdnwt, dlsqtdx ot
mywwmd ot sqttyumd wq wvd voboext qi iqewcywqct zyezcftwonzdt.

Wvd yfsqewonzd qi wvd sqtw qiiyzd onx sqtw eqoxt qn o smon tciiyzydnwmh
myudeom onx zqfsedvdntykd, ot wvdh edtsdzw wvd dlsdxywyqn, toidwh, onx
iozymywh qi zqffcnyzowyqn, yt ynzedotdx uh wvdye yntwecfdnwomywh yn
xyiictynr o gnqpmdxrd qi wvd mopt onx seqzddxynrt qi wvd Rqkdenfdnw, pvyzv,
pvymd yw zqnweyucwdt wq wvd tdzceywh qi wvd sdqsmd, tdekdt omtq wq rcoex
wvdf oroyntw wvd diidzwt qi fytedsedtdnwowyqn onx fytzqnzdswyqn. Wvd
dtwoumytvfdnw qi oxxywyqnom zeqtt sqtwt, dtsdzyommh wq tqfd qi wvd
yfsqewonw sqynwt yn wvd Pdtwden onx Nqewvden soewt qi wvd Cnyqn, zon nqw
ioym wq ud qi fowdeyom cwymywh.

Wvd xytqexdet yn wvd dlytwynr zceednzh, onx dtsdzyommh wvd tzoezywh qi
tfomm zvonrd, o tzoezywh tq sdzcmyoemh xytwedttynr wq wvd sqqede zmottdt,
tweqnrmh edzqffdnx wvd zoeehynr ynwq yffdxyowd diidzw wvd edtqmcwyqn
omedoxh dnwdedx ynwq zqnzdenynr wvd dtwoumytvfdnw qi o fynw. Fdotcedt vokd
uddn wogdn scetconw wq wvow edtqmcwyqn iqe seqzceynr tqfd qi wvd fqtw
ndzdttoeh oewytwt, wqrdwvde pywv wvd edacytywd ossoeowct.

On cnyiqefywh yn wvd pdyrvwt onx fdotcedt qi wvd zqcnweh yt ofqnr wvd
yfsqewonw qujdzwt tcufywwdx wq hqc uh wvd Zqntwywcwyqn, onx yi yw zon ud
xdeykdx ieqf o twonxoex ow qnzd ynkoeyoumd onx cnykdetom, fctw ud nq mdtt
vqnqeoumd wq wvd scumyz zqcnzymt wvon zqnxczykd wq wvd scumyz zqnkdnydnzd.

O seqkytyqn iqe wvd tomd qi wvd kozonw monxt qi wvd Cnywdx Twowdt yt
soewyzcmoemh cerdx, ofqnr qwvde edotqnt, uh wvd yfsqewonw zqntyxdeowyqnt
wvow wvdh oed smdxrdx ot o icnx iqe edyfucetynr wvd scumyz xduw; wvow yi
wyfdmh onx jcxyzyqctmh ossmydx wvdh foh tokd wvd ndzdttywh qi ucewvdnynr
qce zywybdnt pywv ndp woldt iqe wvd dlwynrcytvfdnw qi wvd seynzysom; onx
wvow udynr iedd wq xytzvoerd wvd seynzysom ucw yn o myfywdx seqsqewyqn, nq
qssqewcnywh qcrvw wq ud mqtw iqe okoymynr wvd scumyz qi ywt eyrvw.

RQ. POTVYNRWQN