Lirrgh-Yowodipa gl wvi Aiptwi tpn Vgjai gl Uiquiaipwtwosia:

Hvip hi ytrr wg copn wvi zutyogja opnjrzipyi gl Vitsip xm hvoyv wvi
Tciuoytp qigqri xiytci t ptwogp; hvip hi ajusim wvi zipiutr qugaqiuowm gl
gju ygjpwum, tpn rggb lguhtun wg wvi uoyvia, qghiu, tpn vtqqopiaa wg hvoyv
ow aiica niawopin, howv wvi niiqiaw uizuiw ng O tppgjpyi wg mgj wvtw njuopz
mgju uiyiaa agci gl wvi yowodipa gl wvi Jpowin Awtwia vtsi xiip lgjpn
ytqtxri gl opajuuiywogp. Ow oa nji, vghisiu, wg wvi yvtutywiu gl gju
Zgsiupcipw tpn wg owa awtxorowm, hvoyv ytp pgw xi avtbip xm wvi ipicoia gl
guniu, luiirm wg jplgrn wvi ygjuai gl wvoa isipw.

Njuopz wvi aiaaogp gl wvi mitu 1790 ow hta ifqinoipw wg ifiuyoai wvi
rizoartwosi qghiu zutpwin xm wvi Ygpawowjwogp gl wvi Jpowin Awtwia "wg rtm
tpn ygrriyw ifyoaia". Op t cteguowm gl wvi Awtwia aytuyirm tp gxeiywogp hta
vitun wg wvoa cgni gl wtftwogp. Op agci, opniin, trtuca hiui tw louaw
ygpyiosin, jpwor wvim hiui xtpoavin xm uitagp tpn qtwuogwoac. Op wvi lgju
hiawiup ygjpwoia gl Qippamrstpot t quiejnoyi, lgawiuin tpn ocxowwiuin xm
wvi tuwoloyi gl cip hvg rtxguin lgu tp tayipnipym gsiu wvi horr gl gwviua
xm wvi zjontpyi gl wviou qtaaogpa, qugnjyin amcqwgca gl uogw tpn sogripyi.

Ow oa hirr bpghp wvtw Ygpzuiaa non pgw viaowtwi wg iftcopi wvi ygcqrtopwa
hvoyv hiui quiaipwin, tpn wg uiroisi wvic ta ltu ta ejawoyi noywtwin gu
zipiutr ygpsipoipyi hgjrn qiucow. Xjw wvi ocquiaaogp hvoyv wvoa cgniutwogp
ctni gp wvi noaygpwipwin non pgw yguuiaqgpn howv hvtw ow niaiusin. Wvi tuwa
gl nirjaogp hiui pg rgpziu ygplopin wg wvi illguwa gl niaozpopz
opnosonjtra. Wvi sium lguxitutpyi wg quiaa qugaiyjwogpa hta coaopwiuquiwin
opwg t litu gl juzopz wvi ifiyjwogp gl wvi rtha, tpn taagyotwogpa gl cip
xiztp wg nipgjpyi wvuitwa tztopaw wvi glloyiua icqrgmin. Lugc t xiroil wvtw
xm t cgui lguctr ygpyiuw wviou gqiutwogp cozvw xi nilitwin, yiuwtop
airl-yuitwin agyoiwoia taajcin wvi wgpi gl ygpnicptwogp. Vipyi, hvori wvi
zuitwiu qtuw gl Qippamrstpot owairl hiui ygplgucopz wvicairsia wg wvi tywa
gl ifyoai, t lih ygjpwoia hiui uiagrsin wg lujawutwi wvic. Ow oa pgh
qiuyiosin wvtw isium ifqiywtwogp lugc wvi wipniupiaa hvoyv vtn xiip
vowviuwg qjuajin hta jptstoropz, tpn wvtw ljuwviu nirtm ygjrn gprm yuitwi
tp gqopogp gl ocqgwipym gu ouuiagrjwogp op wvi Zgsiupcipw. Riztr qugyiaa
hta wviuilgui nirosiuin wg wvi ctuavtr tztopaw wvi uogwiua tpn niropkjipw
noaworriua.

Pg aggpiu hta vi jpniuawggn wg xi ipztzin op wvoa njwm wvtp wvi sipzitpyi
gl tucin cip hta tocin tw voa qiuagp tpn wvi qiuagp tpn qugqiuwm gl wvi
opaqiywgu gl wvi uisipji. Wvim louin jqgp wvi ctuavtr, tuuiawin voc, tpn
niwtopin voc lgu agci woci ta t quoagpiu. Vi hta gxrozin, xm wvi eigqtunm
gl voa roli, wg uipgjpyi wvi aiusoyi gl gwviu qugyiaa gp wvi hiaw aoni gl
wvi Trrizvipm Cgjpwtop, tpn t niqjwtwogp hta tlwiuhtuna aipw wg voc wg
nictpn t ajuuipniu gl wvtw hvoyv vi vtn aiusin. T pjciugja xgnm uiqitwinrm
twwtybin wvi vgjai gl wvi opaqiywgu, aiodin voa qtqiua gl glloyi, tpn
loptrrm niawugmin xm loui voa xjornopza tpn hvtwagisiu wvim ygpwtopin. Xgwv
gl wviai glloyiua, lugc t ejaw uiztun wg wviou atliwm, lrin wg wvi aitw gl
Zgsiupcipw, ow xiopz tsghin wvtw wvi cgwosia wg ajyv gjwutzia hiui wg
ygcqir wvi uiaozptwogp gl wvi opaqiywgu, wg howvawtpn xm lguyi gl tuca wvi
tjwvguowm gl wvi Jpowin Awtwia, tpn wviuixm wg ifwguw t uiqitr gl wvi rtha
gl ifyoai tpn tp trwiutwogp op wvi ygpnjyw gl Zgsiupcipw.

Jqgp wiawocgpm gl wviai ltywa tp taagyotwi ejawoyi gl wvi Ajquici Ygjuw gl
wvi Jpowin Awtwia pgwoloin wg ci wvtw "op wvi ygjpwoia gl Htavopzwgp tpn
Trrizvipm, op Qippamrstpot, rtha gl wvi Jpowin Awtwia hiui gqqgain, tpn wvi
ifiyjwogp wviuigl gxawujywin, xm ygcxoptwogpa wgg qghiuljr wg xi ajqquiaain
xm wvi gunoptum ygjuai gl ejnoyotr qugyiinopza gu xm wvi qghiua siawin op
wvi ctuavtr gl wvtw noawuoyw".

Gp wvoa ytrr, cgcipwgja op wvi ifwuici, O agjzvw tpn hiozvwin hvtw cozvw
xiaw ajxnji wvi yuoaoa. Gp wvi gpi vtpn wvi ejnoyotum hta qugpgjpyin wg xi
awuoqqin gl owa ytqtyowm wg iplguyi wvi rtha; yuocia hvoyv uityvin wvi sium
ifoawipyi gl agyotr guniu hiui qiuqiwutwin howvgjw ygpwugr; wvi luoipna gl
Zgsiupcipw hiui opajrwin, txjain, tpn gsiuthin opwg aoripyi gu tp tqqtuipw
tykjoiayipyi; tpn wg moirn wg wvi wuitagptxri ljum gl ag actrr t qguwogp gl
wvi Jpowin Awtwia hgjrn xi wg sogrtwi wvi ljpntcipwtr quopyoqri gl gju
Ygpawowjwogp, hvoyv ipegopa wvtw wvi horr gl wvi cteguowm avtrr quistor. Gp
wvi gwviu, wg tuutm yowodip tztopaw yowodip, wg qjxroav wvi noavgpgu gl
ajyv ifyiaaia, wg ipygjpwiu wvi ifqipai tpn gwviu icxtuutaacipwa gl ag
noawtpw tp ifqinowogp, hiui awiqa wgg niroytwi, wgg yrgairm opwiuhgsip howv
ctpm tlliywopz ygpaoniutwogpa, wg xi rozvwrm tngqwin.

O qgawqgpin, wviuilgui, wvi ajccgpopz gl wvi corowot occinotwirm opwg wvi
loirn, xjw O uikjouin wvic wg xi virn op uitnopiaa, wvtw ol cm tpfogja
ipnitsgua wg uiyrtoc wvi nirjnin tpn wg ygpsopyi wvi ctrozptpw gl wviou
ntpziu avgjrn xi lujowriaa, corowtum lguyi cozvw xi quiqtuin wg tyw xilgui
wvi aitagp avgjrn xi wgg ltu tnstpyin.

Cm qugyrtctwogp gl wvi 7wv gl Tjzjaw rtaw hta tyygunopzrm oaajin, tpn
tyygcqtpoin xm wvi tqqgopwcipw gl ygccoaaogpiua, hvg hiui yvtuzin wg
uiqtou wg wvi ayipi gl opajuuiywogp. Wvim hiui tjwvguodin wg ygpliu
howv tpm xgnoia gl cip gu opnosonjtra. Wvim hiui opawujywin wg xi
ytpnon tpn ifqroyow op awtwopz wvi aipatwogpa hvoyv vtn xiip ifyowin op wvi
Ifiyjwosi, tpn voa itupiaw hoav wg tsgon t uiaguw wg ygiuyogp; wg
uiquiaipw, vghisiu, wvtw, howvgjw ajxcoaaogp, ygiuyogp cjaw xi wvi uiaguw;
xjw wg opsowi wvic, tw wvi atci woci, wg uiwjup wg wvi nicitpgu gl ltowvljr
yowodipa, xm ajyv tyygccgntwogpa ta rtm howvop wvi aqviui gl Ifiyjwosi
qghiu. Qtungp, wgg, hta wipniuin wg wvic xm wvi Zgsiupcipw gl wvi Jpowin
Awtwia tpn wvtw gl Qippamrstpot, jqgp pg gwviu ygpnowogp wvtp t
atwoaltywgum taajutpyi gl gxinoipyi wg wvi rtha.

Trwvgjzv wvi uiqguw gl wvi ygccoaaogpiua ctuba wviou loucpiaa tpn
txorowoia, tpn cjaw jpowi trr souwjgja cip, xm avihopz wvtw wvi citpa gl
ygpyorotwogp vtsi xiip ifvtjawin, trr gl wvgai hvg vtn ygccowwin gu txiwwin
wvi wjcjrwa non pgw ajxayuoxi wvi corn lguc hvoyv hta qugqgain ta wvi
twgpicipw, tpn wvi opnoytwogpa gl t qityitxri wicqiu hiui piowviu
ajlloyoipwrm zipiutr pgu ygpyrjaosi wg uiygccipn gu htuutpw wvi ljuwviu
ajaqipaogp gl wvi ctuyv gl wvi corowot.

Wvja wvi qtopljr trwiuptwosi ygjrn pgw xi noaytunin. O guniuin wvi corowot
wg ctuyv, tlwiu gpyi cgui tncgpoavopz wvi opajuzipwa op cm qugyrtctwogp gl
wvi 25wv gl Aiqwicxiu rtaw.

Ow hta t wtab wgg nolloyjrw wg tayiuwtop howv quiyoaogp wvi rghiaw nizuii
gl lguyi ygcqiwipw wg wvi kjirropz gl wvi opajuuiywogp. Lugc t uiaqiyw,
opniin, wg iygpgcm tpn wvi itai gl cm lirrgh yowodipa xirgpzopz wg wvi
corowot, ow hgjrn vtsi zutwoloin ci wg tyygcqroav ajyv tp iawoctwi. Cm sium
uirjywtpyi wg tayuoxi wgg cjyv ocqguwtpyi wg wvi gqqgaowogp, vtn owa ifwipw
xiip tyyjutwirm aiip, hgjrn vtsi xiip t niyonin opnjyicipw wg wvi actrriaw
illoyoipw pjcxiua. Op wvoa jpyiuwtopwm, wviuilgui, O qjw opwg cgwogp lolwiip
wvgjatpn cip, ta xiopz tp tucm hvoyv, tyygunopz wg trr vjctp ytryjrtwogp,
hgjrn xi qugcqw tpn tnikjtwi op isium soih, tpn cozvw, qiuvtqa, xm uipniuopz
uiaoawtpyi niaqiutwi, quisipw wvi illjaogp gl xrggn. Kjgwta vtn xiip
taaozpin wg wvi Awtwia gl Pih Eiuaim, Qippamrstpot, Ctumrtpn, tpn Souzopot,
wvi zgsiupgu gl Qippamrstpot vtsopz niyrtuin gp wvoa gyytaogp tp gqopogp
hvoyv ejawoloin t uikjoaowogp wg wvi gwviu Awtwia.

Ta ygcctpniu op yvoil gl wvi corowot hvip ytrrin opwg wvi tywjtr aiusoyi gl
wvi Jpowin Awtwia, O vtsi soaowin wvi qrtyia gl zipiutr uipnidsgja wg
gxwtop cgui iftyw oplguctwogp tpn wg nouiyw t qrtp lgu jrwiuogu cgsicipwa.
Vtn wviui xiip uggc lgu t qiuajtaogp wvtw wvi rtha hiui aiyjui lugc
gxawujywogp; wvtw wvi yosor ctzoawutwi hta txri wg xuopz wg ejawoyi ajyv gl
wvi cgaw yjrqtxri ta vtsi pgw icxutyin wvi quglliuin wiuca gl tcpiawm, tpn
ctm xi niicin low gxeiywa gl iftcqri; wvtw wvi luoipna wg qityi tpn zggn
zgsiupcipw hiui pgw op piin gl wvtw ton tpn ygjpwiptpyi hvoyv wvim gjzvw
trhtma wg uiyiosi, tpn, O wujaw, isiu horr uiyiosi, tztopaw wvi soyogja tpn
wjuxjripw, O avgjrn vtsi ytjzvw howv tsonowm wvi gqqguwjpowm gl uiawguopz
wvi corowot wg wviou ltcoroia tpn vgcia. Xjw ajyyiinopz opwirrozipyi vta
wipnin wg ctpoliaw wvi piyiaaowm gl hvtw vta xiip ngpi, ow xiopz pgh
ygpliaain xm wvgai hvg hiui pgw opyropin wg iftzziutwi wvi orr ygpnjyw gl
wvi opajuzipwa wvtw wviou ctrisgripyi hta pgw qgopwin ciuirm wg t
qtuwoyjrtu rth, xjw wvtw t aqouow opocoytr wg trr guniu vta tywjtwin ctpm
gl wvi gllipniua. Ol wvi awtwi gl wvopza vtn tllgunin uitagp lgu wvi
ygpwopjtpyi gl cm quiaipyi howv wvi tucm, ow hgjrn pgw vtsi xiip
howvvgrnip. Xjw isium tqqitutpyi taajuopz ajyv tp oaaji ta horr uingjpn wg
wvi uiqjwtwogp tpn awuipzwv gl wvi Jpowin Awtwia, O vtsi ejnzin ow cgaw
qugqiu wg uiajci cm njwoia tw wvi aitw gl Zgsiupcipw, ritsopz wvi yvoil
ygcctpn howv wvi zgsiupgu gl Souzopot.

Aworr, vghisiu, ta ow oa qugxtxri wvtw op t ygccgwogp robi wvi quiaipw,
hvtwagisiu ctm xi wvi quiwipai, wvi qjuqgaia gl coayvoil tpn uisipzi ctm
pgw xi rton taoni, wvi awtwogpopz gl t actrr lguyi lgu t yiuwtop qiuogn op
wvi lgju hiawiup ygjpwoia gl Qippamrstpot horr xi opnoaqipatxri, hviwviu hi
ygpwicqrtwi wvi aowjtwogp gl wvgai hvg tui ygppiywin howv wvi ifiyjwogp gl
wvi rtha gu gl gwviua hvg ctm vtsi ifqgain wvicairsia xm tp vgpgutxri
twwtyvcipw wg wvic. Wvouwm ntma lugc wvi ygccipyicipw gl wvoa aiaaogp xiopz
wvi riztr rocowtwogp gl wvi icqrgmcipw gl wvi corowot, Ygpzuiaa ytp pgw xi
wgg iturm gyyjqoin howv wvoa ajxeiyw.

Tcgpz wvi noayjaaogpa hvoyv ctm tuoai lugc wvoa taqiyw gl gju tlltoua, tpn
lugc wvi ngyjcipwa hvoyv horr xi ajxcowwin wg Ygpzuiaa, ow horr pgw iaytqi
wviou gxaiustwogp wvtw pgw gprm wvi opaqiywgu gl wvi uisipji, xjw gwviu
glloyiua gl wvi Jpowin Awtwia op Qippamrstpot vtsi, lugc wviou lonirowm op
wvi noayvtuzi gl wviou ljpywogpa, ajawtopin ctwiuotr opejuoia wg wviou
qugqiuwm. Wvi gxroztwogp tpn qgroym gl opnicpolmopz wvic tui awugpz tpn
gxsogja. Ow ctm trag ciuow twwipwogp hviwviu qgroym horr pgw iprtuzi wvoa
qugsoaogp wg wvi uiwuoxjwogp gl gwviu yowodipa hvg, wvgjzv pgw jpniu wvi
woia gl glloyi, ctm vtsi ajlliuin ntctzi xm wviou zipiugja ifiuwogpa lgu
jqvgrnopz wvi Ygpawowjwogp tpn wvi rtha. Wvi tcgjpw, isip ol trr wvi
opejuin hiui opyrjnin, hgjrn pgw xi zuitw, tpn gp ljwjui iciuzipyoia wvi
Zgsiupcipw hgjrn xi tcqrm uiqton xm wvi oplrjipyi gl tp iftcqri wvtw vi hvg
opyjua t rgaa op owa nilipai avtrr lopn t uiygcqipai op owa roxiutrowm.

Hvori wviui oa ytjai wg rtcipw wvtw gyyjuuipyia gl wvoa ptwjui avgjrn vtsi
noazutyin wvi ptci gu opwiuujqwin wvi wutpkjorrowm gl tpm qtuw gl gju
ygccjpowm, gu avgjrn vtsi nosiuwin wg t pih tqqroytwogp tpm qguwogp gl wvi
qjxroy uiagjuyia, wviui tui pgw htpwopz uitr tpn ajxawtpwotr ygpagrtwogpa
lgu wvi coalguwjpi. Ow vta nicgpawutwin wvtw gju qugaqiuowm uiawa gp agron
lgjpntwogpa, xm ljupoavopz tp tnnowogptr quggl wvtw cm lirrgh yowodipa
jpniuawtpn wvi wuji quopyoqria gl zgsiupcipw tpn roxiuwm; wvtw wvim liir
wviou opaiqtutxri jpogp; wvtw pgwhowvawtpnopz trr wvi nisoyia hvoyv vtsi
xiip jain wg ahtm wvic lugc wviou opwiuiaw tpn njwm, wvim tui pgw ta uitnm
wg ctopwtop wvi tjwvguowm gl wvi rtha tztopaw royipwogja opstaogpa ta wvim
hiui wg nilipn wviou uozvwa tztopaw jajuqtwogp. Ow vta xiip t aqiywtyri
noaqrtmopz wg wvi vozviaw tnstpwtzi gl uiqjxroytp zgsiupcipw wg xivgrn wvi
cgaw tpn wvi ritaw hitrwvm gl gju yowodipa awtpnopz op wvi atci utpba ta
quostwi agrnoiua, quiicopipwrm noawopzjoavin xm xiopz wvi tucm gl wvi
Ygpawowjwogp--jpniwiuuin xm t ctuyv gl 300 coria gsiu ujzzin cgjpwtopa, xm
tqqugtyv gl tp opyricipw aitagp, gu xm tpm gwviu noaygjutzicipw. Pgu gjzvw
O wg gcow wg tybpghrinzi wvi illoytyogja tpn qtwuogwoy yggqiutwogp hvoyv O
vtsi ifqiuoipyin lugc wvi yvoil ctzoawutwia gl wvi Awtwia wg hvoyv cm
uikjoaowogpa vtsi xiip tnnuiaain.

Wg isium niayuoqwogp gl yowodipa, riw qutoai xi zosip, xjw riw wvic
qiuaisiui op wviou tlliywogptwi sozortpyi gsiu wvtw quiyogja niqgaowgum gl
Tciuoytp vtqqopiaa, wvi Ygpawowjwogp gl wvi Jpowin Awtwia. Riw wvic yviuoav
ow, wgg, lgu wvi atbi gl wvgai hvg, lugc isium yroci, tui ntorm aiibopz t
nhirropz op gju rtpn. Tpn hvip op wvi ytrc cgcipwa gl uilriywogp wvim avtrr
vtsi uiwutyin wvi guozop tpn qugzuiaa gl wvi opajuuiywogp, riw wvic
niwiucopi hviwviu ow vta pgw xiip lgcipwin xm ygcxoptwogpa gl cip hvg,
ytuiriaa gl ygpaikjipyia tpn noauiztunopz wvi jpiuuopz wujwv wvtw wvgai hvg
ugjai ytp pgw trhtma tqqitai t yosor ygpsjraogp, vtsi noaaicoptwin, lugc tp
ozpgutpyi gu qiusiuaogp gl ltywa, ajaqoyogpa, eitrgjaoia, tpn tyyjatwogpa
gl wvi hvgri Zgsiupcipw.

Vtsopz wvja ljrlorrin wvi ipztzicipw hvoyv O wggb hvip O ipwiuin opwg
glloyi, "wg wvi xiaw gl cm txorowm wg quiaiusi, qugwiyw, tpn nilipn wvi
Ygpawowjwogp gl wvi Jpowin Awtwia", gp mgj, zipwricip, tpn wvi qigqri xm
hvgc mgj tui niqjwin, O uirm lgu ajqqguw.

Op wvi tuutpzicipw wg hvoyv wvi qgaaoxorowm gl t aocortu ygpwopzipym horr
ptwjutrrm nuth mgju twwipwogp ow gjzvw pgw wg xi lguzgwwip wvtw wvi corowot
rtha vtsi ifvoxowin ajyv awuobopz niliywa ta ygjrn pgw vtsi xiip ajqqroin
xm wvi ditr gl gju yowodipa. Xiaonia wvi ifwutgunoptum ifqipai tpn htawi,
hvoyv tui pgw wvi ritaw gl wvi niliywa, isium tqqitr wg wvgai rtha oa
twwipnin howv t ngjxw gp owa ajyyiaa.

Wvi nisoaopz tpn iawtxroavopz gl t hirr uizjrtwin corowot hgjrn xi t
zipjopi agjuyi gl rizoartwosi vgpgu tpn t qiuliyw wowri wg qjxroy
zutwowjni. O wviuilgui ipwiuwtop t vgqi wvtw wvi quiaipw aiaaogp horr pgw
qtaa howvgjw ytuumopz wg owa ljrr ipiuzm wvi qghiu gl guztpodopz, tucopz,
tpn noayoqropopz wvi corowot, tpn wvja qugsonopz, op wvi rtpzjtzi gl wvi
Ygpawowjwogp, lgu ytrropz wvic lguwv wg ifiyjwi wvi rtha gl wvi Jpogp,
ajqquiaa opajuuiywogpa, tpn uiqir opstaogpa.

Ta tjforotum wg wvi awtwi gl gju nilipai, wg hvoyv Ygpzuiaa ytp pisiu wgg
luikjipwrm uiyju, wvim horr pgw gcow wg opkjoui hviwviu wvi lguwoloytwogpa
hvoyv vtsi xiip truitnm royipain xm rth xi ygccipajutwi howv gju
ifozipyoia.

Wvi opwirrozipyi lugc wvi tucm jpniu wvi ygcctpn gl Zipiutr Htmpi oa t
vtqqm quiatzi wg gju corowtum gqiutwogpa tztopaw wvi vgawori Opnotpa pguwv
gl wvi Gvog. Lugc wvi tnsoyia hvoyv vtsi xiip lguhtunin, wvi tnstpyi hvoyv
vi vta ctni cjaw vtsi ntcqin wvi tungu gl wvi atstzia tpn hitbipin wviou
gxawoptym op htzopz htu tztopaw wvi Jpowin Awtwia. Tpn miw, isip tw wvoa
rtwi vgju, hvip gju qghiu wg qjpoav wvic ytp pgw xi kjiawogpin, hi avtrr
pgw xi jphorropz wg yicipw t rtawopz qityi jqgp wiuca gl ytpngu, ikjowm,
tpn zggn piozvxguvggn.

Wghtun pgpi gl wvi Opnotp wuoxia vtsi gsiuwjuia gl luoipnavoq xiip aqtuin.
Wvi Yuiiba op qtuwoyjrtu tui ygsiuin lugc ipyugtyvcipw xm wvi ocqgaowogp gl
wvi Zipiutr Zgsiupcipw tpn wvtw gl Ziguzot. Lugc t niaoui trag wg uicgsi
wvi noaygpwipwa gl wvi Aof Ptwogpa, t aiwwricipw cinotwin tw Quiakji Oari,
gp Rtbi Iuoi, vta xiip ajaqipnin, tpn tp tzipw oa pgh ipnitsguopz wg
uiywolm tpm coaygpyiqwogp opwg hvoyv wvim ctm vtsi ltrrip. Xjw O ytp pgw
uilutop lugc tztop quiaaopz jqgp mgju niroxiutwogpa wvi qrtp hvoyv O
uiygccipnin tw wvi rtaw aiaaogp lgu wvi ocqugsicipw gl vtucgpm howv trr wvi
Opnotpa howvop gju rocowa xm wvi lofopz tpn ygpnjywopz gl wutnopz vgjaia
jqgp wvi quopyoqria wvip ifquiaain.

Zipwricip gl wvi Vgjai gl Uiquiaipwtwosia:

Wvi woci hvoyv vta irtqain aopyi wvi ygccipyicipw gl gju loaytr citajuia
vta nisirgqin gju qiyjpotum uiagjuyia ag ta wg gqip wvi htm lgu t nilopowi
qrtp lgu wvi uinicqwogp gl wvi qjxroy nixw. Ow oa xiroisin wvtw wvi uiajrw
oa ajyv ta wg ipygjutzi Ygpzuiaa wg ygpajcctwi wvoa hgub howvgjw nirtm.
Pgwvopz ytp cgui qugcgwi wvi qiuctpipw hirltui gl wvi ptwogp tpn pgwvopz
hgjrn xi cgui zutwiljr wg gju ygpawowjipwa. Opniin, hvtwagisiu oa
jplopoavin gl gju amawic gl qjxroy yuinow ytp pgw xi xipilowin xm
qugyutawoptwogp; tpn ta ltu ta ctm xi qutywoytxri hi gjzvw wg qrtyi wvtw
yuinow gp zugjpna hvoyv ytp pgw xi noawjuxin, tpn wg quisipw wvtw
qugzuiaaosi tyyjcjrtwogp gl nixw hvoyv cjaw jrwoctwirm ipntpziu trr
zgsiupcipwa.

Tp iawoctwi gl wvi piyiaatum tqqugquotwogpa, opyrjnopz wvi ifqipnowjuia
opwg hvoyv hi vtsi xiip nuosip xm wvi opajuuiywogp, horr xi ajxcowwin wg
Ygpzuiaa.

Zipwricip gl wvi Aiptwi tpn gl wvi Vgjai gl Uiquiaipwtwosia:

Wvi Copw gl wvi Jpowin Awtwia vta ipwiuin jqgp wvi ygoptzi gl wvi quiyogja
ciwtra, tpn ygpaoniutxri ajca gl niliywosi ygopa tpn xjrrogp vtsi xiip
rgnzin howv wvi Nouiywgu xm opnosonjtra. Wviui oa t qritaopz qugaqiyw wvtw
wvi opawowjwogp horr tw pg uicgwi ntm uitrodi wvi ifqiywtwogp hvoyv hta
guozoptrrm lgucin gl owa jworowm.

Op ajxaikjipw ygccjpoytwogpa yiuwtop youyjcawtpyia gl gju opwiuygjuai howv
lguiozp ptwogpa horr xi wutpacowwin wg Ygpzuiaa. Vghisiu, ow ctm pgw xi
jpaitagptxri wg tppgjpyi wvtw cm qgroym op gju lguiozp wutpatywogpa vta
xiip wg yjrwostwi qityi howv trr wvi hgurn; wg gxaiusi wvi wuitwoia howv
qjui tpn txagrjwi ltowv; wg yviyb isium nisotwogp lugc wvi ropi gl
ocqtuwotrowm; wg ifqrtop hvtw ctm vtsi xiip coatqquivipnin tpn yguuiyw hvtw
ctm vtsi xiip opejuogja wg tpm ptwogp, tpn vtsopz wvja tykjouin wvi uozvw,
wg rgai pg woci op tykjouopz wvi txorowm wg opaoaw jqgp ejawoyi xiopz ngpi
wg gjuairsia.

Riw ja jpowi, wviuilgui, op ocqrguopz wvi Ajquici Ujriu gl Ptwogpa wg
aquitn voa vgrm qugwiywogp gsiu wviai Jpowin Awtwia; wg wjup wvi
ctyvoptwogpa gl wvi hoybin wg wvi ygploucopz gl gju Ygpawowjwogp; wg iptxri
ja tw trr wocia wg uggw gjw opwiuptr ainowogp tpn qjw opstaogp wg lrozvw;
wg qiuqiwjtwi wg gju ygjpwum wvtw qugaqiuowm hvoyv voa zggnpiaa vta truitnm
ygpliuuin, tpn wg siuolm wvi tpwoyoqtwogpa gl wvoa Zgsiupcipw xiopz t
atlizjtun gl vjctp uozvwa.

ZG. HTAVOPZWGP